of tfje t* Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NuMBEIi 1652.]
Marihal's Sales.
N United Statss, )
Pennlyivania Diftria. J ft,
BY virtus of a writ of Fieri Facias iflucd outofthe
Diflriil Court of the United States for the Pcnn
fylvania Diltridi, tome direited will be exposed to
Public Sale, on Tuesday the ad day of January next
at me Merchant's Coffee House in Sccoud Street, in
the city of Philadelphia, the following tra&s and par
cels of vacant and unimproved lands situated in the
County of Bedford in the Stare of Peiinfylvani*.-_to
wn : one trsft of land called Ru(h Bottom, lituated
on the waters of Liclieu creek, in Belfaft townlhip
Jn the fsme county, bounded by lands of Jacob Bore
msn, \\'illiam Delhong, R*lph Brooks and others,
containing three hundred and ninety-one jcres, and,
one hundred and thirty two perches and the ufnal al
lowance.
Gue traft called Newland, situated in Belf.ft town
ship in the fame county, bounded by lands of George
• Sipcs, Monci Difchangs, N«as William Difchang,
John Ruffle and others, containing four hundred and
four acres and three quarters, and the ufualallowances.
One tra£f cilled Hickory Ridge, situated on the
waacrj ol Tonolaway creek, in Belfaft fownlhip in
the fame county, bounded by lands of £'lias Rutman,
Peter freights, George Borcman, Monci Defhor)gs
and others, containing four hundred and forty-four
acres and ninety J fix peaciies and aliowance, <Stc.
And one tradt called Gold Mine, fituatc on the
watert' of Tonolaway creek in Belfaft townfhio, in
the fame county, bounded by lands of Will iam Woods
Peter Swurtzler, John M'Lett, Jacob Boreman, Tho
ipas Logan and och"rs, containing three hundred and
feveuty acres and fifty-fix perches and allowances, &c.
Oie foregoing trsfts are all patented, seized and
taken m exvcb". ion as the property of Philip Reilly,
and. to be fold by
William Niehols, Marjhal.
_December 23. Htg].
Maiflial's Sales.
* United States, ) _
Pcnnfylvania Diftrid, J #
B\ virtue ofa writ of fieri facias iflucd out of
the diffrirft court of the United States for
the Pcnnfylvania di.lri.n, to rae diredled, will
lie cxpei'cd to sale, on TueWay the id day of
January iiea't, at th& Merchants' Coffee-houfe in
Acond-ftj-eet, in the city of Philadelphia, the
following ir.ias or parcels of vacant and nnim
provtd ND, fitifatod in the i county of S«-
merfet, lite county of Bedford, in the state of
Pennsylvania, ti*.v
A certain trail, furrey«d in the name of Ma
ry Eafleman, containing three hundred & eighty
acres and the usual allowance &c. situated on the
waters of Stony creek, in Stoney creek townlhip,
and bounded by lands surveyed for Joseph Kirk- '
bride, John Koadi, Charles Reinfhaw, and o- \
thers.
A certain other traa, f«rvey«d is the name f
of Geerge Campbell, containing four hundred
and ten acres and allowance Ac. situated on the
wefl fide of Alleghany Mountain, on the waters
o£,Stony creek, in Stony creek towofliip, for- 1
merjy Bedford, now Somerset county,and bduad- 1
ed by lands surveyed for Joseph Kirkbrida, Ma- !
ry Eafleman, Jehn Rowfer and others.
A nertain ather trjift, lurreyed in the name of <
Benjamin Lodge, containing four hundred and f
fourteen acres & three quarters & allowance,&c. I
lituated on the waters of Clear run, a braneh of t
Stony creek, in Stony creek tewnfhig, in the 1
county alarefaid, and bounded by lands surveyed '
for William Gjitack, William Skinner, George 1
Campbell and < ihefs.
A certain other tra<3, surveyed in the name of 1
Richard Williams, containing three hundred
and r.inety-feven acresand a half and allowance
Sec- lituated on the ft.ne road and «I'd road lead- '
ing from Bedford to Pitifliurg, and ot the wa
ters of Stony creek, in Stofly creek townlhip, in
the county afsrefaid, and bounded hv lands fur
lor Jacob Stotler, William GWamy, Sa-
niuel-Adains and others. I
A certain other trail, surveyed in the narae 1
of William Gattark, containing four hundred '
and one acres and a half and allowance &c. litu- >'
ated on Clear run, a branch of Stony creek, in 9
Stony creek townlhip, in the county aforefaid, lu
and bounded by lands surveyed f«r Robert TOI ■ 0
iiaifis, William Skinner, 'Benjamin Lodge and °,
others. L '
A certain oaher trail, surveyed in the name "
of Robert Williams, containing four hundred
and two acres and a half and allowance kc. fitu
attd o»i the wjteri of Stony creek, in Stony t (
creek townlhip, in the county aforefaid, and ol
bounded by lands jfurveyed for Jacob Ziglar,
Richard \ViJl<ams, Samuel Adasns and others.
A certain other trail, surveyed iu the tiame
ol James Johnson, containing three hundred
and ninety-five acres and allowance &c. situated D
on bcth fides of the state road, ou the waters of
Stony creek, in Stony creek township, in the
courtty afotefaid, and bounded by lands surveyed f
for Alexandtr Johnson, Joseph Engle, Conrad v
Weaver and others. • cl
A certain other trafl, furvsyed in the name a '
of Alexander John(on, containing four hundred
and five acres and a half and allowance &c. fit«- ec
ated on the waters of Stony creek, in Stony
creek ftownlhip, in the county aforefaid, and
bounded by lands surveyed for John Lombard, ~
James Johnson, Joseph Eagle and others.
A certain other trail, surveyed in the name
of John Johnson, containing four hundred and f
eight acres and three quarters and aliowance V.
&c. situated on the waters of Stony creek, in fe<
Stony creek township, in the couuty aforefaid, Se
and bounded by lands surveyed for Robert Tuck- S t;
ness, John Shoemaker, Mathias Haker and
others. ln
A certain other trail, surveyed in the name
«f William Campbell, containing faur hondred m<
and I'eventeen acres and a quarter and allow
ance &c. situated adjoining Jones's road, asd a
on a large run emptying into Laurel-hill creek,
otherwise called the North Fork of Turkey-foot,
in Miilford townSiip, in the county aferefaid, (
and bounded by lands surveyed for Joseph Bark- f
•er, Mathias Goftet, Benjamin Rufsleand ethers, v.
A certain 9tliet tfait surveyed in the nameof Hu
Betsey Galbreath,containing three hundred&niua- di<
ty nine acres and'one quarter and allowance, <kc. co '
situated <lll Roaring run, a small branch ef l.aurel i e , r
Hillcrefck, in Milford townlhip, in the county a-
forefaid, and boutidsdby lands surveyed lor John eoa
Driviir,Mofes Parker, Ufeph Barker and others. pat
A certain pthd- trail surveyed in the name of len
Joseph Barker, containing four hundred and three V "
acres and o .l-quarter and allowance, &c. situated. vet
on n large run emptying into Laurel Hill treek a- ( | lf
bout a mile above ihe falls, in Milford township, in vl ji
the county aforefaid, up.d bounded by lauds fur- 0 f t
veyed for Mathias Gnffett, William Campbell, Bet- sale
fey Galbreath and others. mo ,
A certain other trail surveyed in the name of I
James Gilfna, containing four hundred and one a
cres and one quart#; and allowance, &c. situated
on Jones's Mill run, a branch of Laurel Hill creek,
in Milferd townlhip, in the county aforefaid, and t
bounded by lands surveyed for Robert M'Connel, to f
John Hendall, Bci j imin Banlifon and others. * and
A certbin otUsr trail surveyed in the name of E
P HIL ADELP HI A.■ TUESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 26, 1797
Mary Galbreath, containing fbur hundred and
oneacres and allowance, &c. situated «... Jones',
rai l run, a branch of Laurel Hill creek, in Ylil
the ,? ' ovrn{j! 'P. >•> 'he county aforefaid, and boun
inn- ° e i b y ands surveyed fdr Gabriel Hcifter, James
I 1 " na > J-»mcs Campbell and others,
ext A certain cthsr trail surveyed in the name of
, in Campbell, containing four hundred and
MF _ twenty three acres and one quartsr and allowance,
'he KC. situated on the head. water- of Shaver's iViiU
-lo run, and on both fides of the middle road, pirt in
ted Muford aud aSjwacrfet townihipin the c«un
p anc * hounded by lands Aij veyed for
>re- rkeodore Xlemimger, William Sheaff, John Scott
:rs, and others. .
*»?' r ? CCr ' ,!n ° thtT traa furve yi in the name of
John Scott, containing four hundred and three a
and thre « <l ua »e" and allowance, ice. situat
ed on thf head waters of Shaver's mill run, in So
il merfet township and Somerfct county, late Milford
n s d townlhip, Bedford county, audbounded by lands
;es - !,'y,® 7cd . for willi!lln Sheaff, James Campbell,
Williana Scot# and others.
in v?mi other tra . d > surveyed in the name of
in, Vv liham Scott, containing-three hundred and eigh-
Igs ■ tynine acres, ?nd one quarter, and allo'wance, &c.
i ur situated on a large run, emptying into Laurel Hill
Creek, about a mile above the middle road, ip So
he mtrfet township, Sonieffet county, late Miilford
in townlhip, Bedford county, snd bounded by lands
ds surveyed for lfabella Galbreath, William Coates,
0- Robei t Martin, and others.
id A certain oihn traa, surveyed in the name of Sa
mucl Hagerman, containing four hundred and tbir
na t«n acres and allowance, Sec. situated on both fides
y. of the S;ate road on the waters of Stony creek in Stos
ny creek township.,. formerly Bedford, n« Somer
set county and bouijded by lands surveyed for Samuel
Hillegas, Cornelius Barns, Jacob Slotie. aod others
A ceriain other trail lurveyed in rhc rameof Fran
cis Walker, containing three hundred and ninety.two
lc, v " nd a nalf allowance, &c. fitua' don the
watetS-pf TwUy
line between MtUVd and Turkey Foot lOwnfhips,
»/ Sorrier let county late B dford county and bounded by
ir lauds surveyed for Jeffe Brooke, John Brooke, William
U Biddle and Peter Fi-otman and others';
>f The foregoing Tands are held by warrant of Survey,
n Seized aud taken in execution as the property of
e Philip Reilly.
William Nichols, Marjhal.
1- December 83 dta J.
lf Marjhal's Sales.
_ United Stated, 1 „.
y Pcnnfylvania Diftrift, j
e v 'rtue oi writs of venditioni exponas, issued
( A3 out of the diftrift court of the United Slates, and
' to me dire&ed, will be fold at public Sale at the mer- (
chant's Coffee-Houfe, in Second llreet, on Wednefoay
the 87th day oF December iuft, at 6 o'clock in the '
evening, all that |>i<"ce or paratl of meadow ground {
e fituatc, lying and being in the township of Paffyunck., 1
d and county ofPhlladelphia, on the road leading to *
e State Island Ferry, containing about fifty-four acres »
s and three perches, whereon are erefted a two story *
■. brick Mefluage, out houses and a barn ; alfe one o- «
ther traft or piece of meadow ground t situate in the 11
jaid township and county, and nearly on the opposite *
fide of the laid roadtothe said ferry,containing fix teen a- j
cres&threequai ters; alfoamcfluageortenementand lot
* or piece of ground situate on the north fide of High
i ttreet, between and 6th streets, in the city of Phi
. 1 adelphia, containing in front on High street, thirty
i three feet, and in length or depth two hundred feet,
c bounded eaA by property of Hannah Pcinberton,
\ north by SoutK alley, well by property of William
. Bell, and louth by High street aforelaid.
-Seized and taken iu eiccuuon aaxh€ property of
P Henry Shekel, and to be fold by f
William Nichols, Marjhal.
; Marlhal's Ofiwe, ">
Ik cemher 15, 1797. j
December Tj dtf
Marlhils Sales,
United States, 7 <r f,
Pcnnfylvania Diftrift.J ' V
B* virtuo of a Writ of venditioni exponas, jffued tl
out of the Circuit Court tof the United States,
in and for the Pcnnfylvania Diftridi of th« Middle ~~
Circuit, and to me directed will be fold at public
faieat the Marflials Office in Race Street No. 117. p
on Saturday the 30th day of December inft. at iz
o'clock at noon, two 'elegant engTaved Copper plates
of Sbakefpearc, one plate of Bartolezzi,
one plate of prudence, do. one plate ol meekncfs,do
onq plate of beauty, do. and one plate of'Harvcit
home -do—SeizeJ and taken in execution as the
property of T*iftram Bampfylde Freeman, and
John Iffichblfon, Menchanc , trading unaer the firm ~
of Freeman and Company, ,
And to be fold by r "
v William Nichols, Marthal.
Marftials office ■> w '
December 18th J 797 j dtf
THE SUBSCRIBER, v
ONE of the late 6rm of FREEMAN V Co.
thinks it a duty he owes to himfelf, to de
clare, that he is 110 wife concerned in the property
above advoitifed by the Marftul!, nor ought he ts
be fulijeift to the said a&ion, which will be disput
ed by the party whose interest it is. n
Iriflram Bamfylde Freeman.
December it, dtjoth
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not bsfore d'tfpofed of at private sals)
Monday the firfidayof January next, at fix
V_>/ o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Co
ffee House, in Philadelphia, Twentt-Six Thousand
Seven, Hundred and £ighty>acres of LAND,in the
State of New-York, between the northern bounds
of Pennfylvaoia aiid the Su'quchanna, now, or late
in the townships of Hamd. n and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery. One foarth of the purcbafe
money to be paid at the time of sale ; lor the residue
credit of one, two and three months, will be given,
on int-ereft and good feturity.
D p c. 4. 3faw<S.
To be Sold at Public Vendue, »
(If not before disposed of at private sale)
ON Monday the nrft day of January next, at fix T
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee '
House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine Hun- . 0
dijed and Thirty-Nine acres of LANB in Green In £
county, Commonwealth «f Pennfylvania,on tho W.a
ter* of Fifii and Whe<*liog Creek, and te«j Mile Run. t * ol
Thefc lands are fertile', well timbered and abound in r,e!
coal; they, were Ibid ten years ago for ss. per acie, U"
patented eaOy in 1787, except 3,700, which were pa- 1
tented in 1792 j the great eft part of them were fur- fell
veyed in 1783 - _ dif<
This is between the Ohio and Momongahela, Lai
very convenient to water carriage—about from by
the town of Walhington,- and from 14 to 16 from the n
villages of Greenfiiurgh and Wheeling. One fourth
of the parchafe'money is so be paid au.the time of '
sale ; for ihe residue a credit ot onpi two, and three
months will be given, on interef\,4nd good security.
Pec- 1. - ■ 3 f3w tJ. T S
To be Sold, A
R I I
The time of a Negro Boy, pm
About fifteen years ps age, has seven years yet to I
to fcrve ; he is an cxcelk-p: hoofe fcrvaat, acliva acc
andliealthy. Enquire of. Printer. woi
December 3. d;\v J
B y J OHN Fenno, : N 0 ' 119 Chefmit Street.
*£• FrcUr Knifms.
A Smrfl ca# #° ? f ri«'d. and.now Jaijdiflg
1. x. at Chcfmw itreet wharf, f-om the fleou \
mU tp ' "j*. Hafkjsll, toßfiftm* ef Kass, B<*e« aad
ID i " 'r- ® e,kd A-rmgndv—lA,^/, B tbe lifter
00 or to .
vj iii j6U Anthoiiy <s & Co.
tin .. V,.
u s "; Philip NicKrniTV'Co.
:ott , : #<&£ AOR SALE, . ~ j
At their Storks on Walnut street WWr,
EO f Havannah Sugars, white and brown j
:a- 25 hhds. Jamaica " do.
at- 3000 piece* of broad Nankeens
So- fcnp#rial 1 ea, in quarters and eighths of chests
ird Quicksilver in tubs
ids Madeira Wine in pipes and hoglheads
.'II f 1 eneriffe Wine in pipe?
Old red Port Wine inhoglheads
of Sail Canvass, aforted, No. ito 8
;h- 8 cases ol Manct&fter Good?, confiding of Dimities,
« Muflniets, Girtghan>«,Thiclcf(tts ( Co!»dtiroys, & e .
Ull 200 crates Queens' Ware, allotted
»o- Nails, aflorted
rd B!a k quart Bottles ,
ids Yellcw Ocre in caiks
es, A quantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, See.
100 quarter calks Gun Powder
7bn lave alfofrr SALE or CHARTER,
!c, The flip MOLLY, burthen 340 tons, a
os £ qod velfcl, and completely fitted.
;r - The brig AMAZON, burthen 1350 bar
lel rels, may be ready for fcain a lew days,
rs '1 lie whole of the above velfels to lie fcen at
n- Walnut flreet Wharf. ■"> . tmv re.
be A perfcin well acquainted with
' <e (he th eArv and pra>> ice of boo k.-kee p innr jvhohasbeen J
ls > manyyearscngagedipbufmtfslorhmifeif anJlother?,
would be glad to biempk»yetl, either as an agen*
or fa&or ; or in porting j fK'-fcs uafcttfcf
accounts ;or in executing any other kind 6f writ
0j ing, in French or EngJrlh,
A note addrelTed to J. A. and left at this office,
will be punctually attendsd to.
Rovember 30. tawtf
FOR SALE, AT ,
Wm. Young's Book Store, <
No. 52, Second ftrset, the corner of Chefajj: street, J
d EPORT of the Committee of the House of
j A V Reprefentativesol the United Stites, appoint- 1
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment
against YJILLI 4M' BLOUNT, a Senator of the
c United States, h?£fi crimes and mil
d demeanors, made in pursuance of a refolutiorr of
:, the House of Reprcfeutativea, authorizing the said '
0 Committee to fit during the recess of Congress, and '
s inftruSing them "to enquire, and, by all lawful '
y " means, to difcovor the whole nature and extent
- " of tho offence whereof the laid William Blount
c " (lands impeache.., and.who are the parties and
e " associates therein." r
" Printed by order of the Haufe of Reprefentativei.
1 December 2.0. §
- James C. Samuel W. Fitfigr, a
t AT THEIR STQRE, °
' N0.J13, corner of Arch antl'PronlJlreeti,
| HAri tOK
Cotton and worded 11 ylu ry ii)-yu,ul:(.va4ofU'd
f A few baics red, white, and yellow Flanuels
Ditto furty romall Ha'ndkerchiuls
Ditto Fullicat silk d'mo u
Ditto Pondiclierry and Madrafs diup *
Di'to Gurrahs '
Bengal black Taffttics 1
4000 piece. Nankeens, and
Few chests bed Hyson Ttu '
Alfo —150® boxfs bell London Window Glass, „
from 8 by 6, to 19 by 14—aad 15 hhds. Glass
Ware, aflorted, which they will dispose of cheaper
than any in the city.
, novemVer aB. •jawtf 1
Landing this day, °l
Frem on board tht schooner Two Fiiend«, Dan- a '
jel Crawley, Mailer, P'
r; J";, * nd i RUM > £
FOR SALJ? By P'
George Latimer Ss 3 Son.
uoDemhfr 9.
James & Richard Smith,
r the liberty of informing their friends
X and the public, that they have removea their
(lore to No. 54, South Frinljfreet, next d«or to Kd
ward Fox'* Auction Room, where they have at
v this time for sale, a large and gmt*ral aflbrtenettf cf
European & Eajl India Goods,
Many of whieh are just imported in the Clothier,
William Penn, See. Sic,
Oft. 17. «
NOW LANDING, * br
At South-ftreetWWharf,
The Cargo of the Ship Concord,
Captain Thompfoo, from B-itavia.
About 30® tons quali'y Java Coffee (the
whole having been fele&ed)
80 tons Java Sugar, in caniflers and bags
10 legurcs of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
PGR MLR fir
PETER BLIGHT. I<h
Who also offers For Sale, (
Just landed from ship Amity, from Jamaica. 0 f
lot hhds. Jamaica and
170 do. do. Rum. [ le
november 13. d6w
Canal Lottery —No. 11. on
WILL commence d-awing Monday, the2oth an>
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at nu
Seven Dollars, at? Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery ari
and Brokers Olficg, No. 64, South Second-flreet— the
Tickets iu the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten an<
Dollars y where check books are kept lor regiller- att
iag and examining in these* ths City of Walhing- hoi
ton, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and intorma- ed
tion where tickets may be had in moil of the Lotte- cu!
ries authorised by\ law 111 any. of the States gf the J
Union. '
N. B. The bufine»* of a Broker, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock s>ecu«iii's, I
difcountpg Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of eha
Lands, Houfcs. °cc» wcc. wi'il be duly attiendevl tor
by Wm. BLACKBURN. Ch
november J5. s )
The History of Pennsylvania, (
By ROBERT PROUD, clot
IS now in the preis, and will be publilhtd, is I
with all convenient expedition, by 7itCHA- w j t
riah I'tiOLSON, jun. No. 80, Chel'nut-ftreet, aBC
Philadelphia, where fubferiptipns will continue
to be at the PiiilaJlelphia Library, ■
according to the printed pcopofals, until the
work is ready for tiie fubTcrib«r». j
July 18. r _ i-4?*vtf Dc
Bank of North America.
i;ijr , Stockholders arc hereby that ati
Val -'edion for twelve l)rrcitors, for the eufuing year,
iid will be hold at the Rank on Monday., the Bth of
s y next, at t "i r'cldcl.
fter RICHARD WELLS', Cq/hicr. •
Dfcemher x v. <it Bth J
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that th#
, , eleAion for Prefideut and Managers, for the enfu
year, will be held at the company's office, on
the fit ft Monday in January next, ar too'cloek.A. m.
WM. MOORE- SMITH, Sec'ry.
Decembei' li. nnv&ftiftnj
Schuylkill and Sul'quehanna Canal.
THE Stockholders are hereby no ified, that the
elesflion for I'refident and Managers for the enfu
'Dg>ear, willbeheld at the compaiiyls office, on
the Srft Monday in January next, at 10 o'clock,
*■ M - Dec, it.. mw&ftiftmt
es ,! Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
THE Shareholders/ire hereby notified, that an
El' Aion of Officers for the enfuinj year, will be
held at the Company'solfice, n0.53, north Fourth
. c . street, on Wednesday, the 10th day of January
next, at 11 o'clock.
By order o the Board, ,
a SOL. MARACHE, Sec'ry.
December f6 s , eodticthj
r " Insurance Company of North
at America.
1 HE Stockholders arc hereby informed, that a
[l ifated meeting of the Compawy wiil be lie Id-at
>n tlicir office 011 the jiiuth dJy*of next (ne
, second TuefJay in the for the EJec-
tion of twenty-fivfe Direi^ors^orthe ensuing year.
EHEN. HAZARD, S«c'»y.
December 14. thAmrgthT
Philadelphia and LancaiterTurn
pike Company.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified,
annual fctedioa for O fficeis for tbe ensuing
year,will bt held at the Company's Office in Phila
delphia, 011 the£econd Monday in January next, at
I® o'cUck, a. m. Wm. GOVETT, Sec'ry.
f December 7. gts m&wt>J
t Insurance Company of
; America.
A Meeting of the Stockholders is to be held, a - (
j gteeably to adjournment, at the Company's office, j
j on the firft Monday in January next, at It o'cloak,
1 A - "• EBEN. HAZARD, Sec'ry. j
t Decsmber T4. tb&mtiftj
Insurance Company 1
OIP THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA. c
'"j "HE Stockholders are hereby notified, that an j
X Eleflion for thirteen Directors to ferre for ' r
one year, will be held at tl>» company's Office, on „
, Monday, the eighth day of January next, at tl ,
o'clock.
SAM. W. FISHER, Sec'ry. J
December 14. dtßtbj
A Fifty Dollar Bank Note, "
ps the Bank of the United States, was loft qm Sa-
" turday last, between the Bank of the United States
"the Horf: market—lf an honest person has
found it, and will leave it with the Printer hereof; ,
they (hall be handsomely rewarded.
December 11. eoj3t
NOTICE.
To holders of J AMES GREENLEAFs r
and EDIVARD FOX'S Engagements
IN coufequrnce of many having been prevent
ed, from late unav idable circumstances from -
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now informthem, they a]
are ready-to tlTue the fame to these who may ap- »
ply withifl sixty days, at No. 8 Cnefnut Sertet, 0
and those who do not, will be confidercd as re- h
linquiffiing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided tor their payment.
HIiNRY PRATT,
THC MAS W. FRANCIS,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLF.V,
JACOB BAKER.
December 15. d^ot
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whole and half tierces
Bou/dcaux Brandy
TentriJJe IVine *
Molajfes -
, Georgia and Earolina Indigo V
Ravens Duck and one hogjhead'nf paint
brUfhes. .
N. (3* y. Frazer. C
No. 95, Sanfh Front Street, A
Nov. 7. d\m L
MUSIC, v " iu
J. L. LENZ,
Teacher ol Vocal and instrumental Music,
RIiTURNS hi-, sincere thanks to the Ladies-and
Gentlemen, from whom he received a very
liberal encouragement since his residence in this ci
ty, and refpcflfully informs his friends and the pub
lic generally, that, in of the requift 77
of Jo me as his friends, he has opened a MuficaT
School at his house in Spruce Street No 174, where
be will teach on the Piano forte, Violin &c. &c
He deems it unnecessary to enlarge upon the ad
vantages the learner will derive frotr. an inftituti
on of this kind; he will only fay, that attention
and zcj are much excited in an affsmbly, where
numbers are in pursuit of the fame obje.fl. His
arrangement is such, that an iut'erference of the
the different sexes will be avoided. Those Ladiei
and Gentlemen who cannot make it convenient tp
attend at his school, he will wait upon at thfir
houses- Applications will be thankfully receiv
ed at his house, where his terms and further parti
culars may be known. 1
Dec. 7. *lweod
1 —— £T-*
Alphabetical Lilt of Duties,
Payable by law on all Goods, Wares, and Mer
chandize, imported into the Unit«d States—latest
edition, to ]ie_fold by JOHN OR VIROD, no. 41,
Cnefnut "Greet. * ' Dae. ifi—d x
STOLEN }[
Out of the fub£criber'B office a large blue C oi
clothclo(ii,hd\{ worn. Theinlidcof the Collar "
is faced partly with scarlet velyct and partly
with scarlet cloth, and it has a silver hook at
and chain as a fa(l«ning. A suitable reward He
will be paid for refooring it. ant
WILtIAM MEREDITH r "
No. lii South 3d Street. 1 '
Dec. j6. diw ]
1 , f l? u ' e * n ur^n gton for §aie.
!j *"{£ ' J^ lcr 'ber hit a larpe, convenient two
, r t\- Qnr y, hnck House, with Stables, Carriage
and-a well la-.pr.lved Garden, in the City
, |* New-Jecfey", wMcfa he willies to
a lcrms apply at No. 5, South Fourth
- t0 „„ , GEORGE WALXEK,
if, Who lias also for Sale,
,he Lots jn Wafhihgton City,
•n harhoorf IiOUS '° **. Capil °' ?" d th '
M " ne'emb^rii.
tl- A, TP UNG MAN < who C 9«W '->»ng indifpu
h. x ,g . b . le '■"ommeudation., is defirousto be em
<T X' tU the clt y o£ "pying Clerk, at a public
__ rr , . woul,i « n p>gc on moderate terms
™ Tor iurthcr particulars enquire at the office of t
f' S22£l__ __ Dec . 9
T , for s rjf, ~ * *
i- B y JOHN MILLER, jun. CO.
No. 8, Chdnut-ftrcet,
One hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL goods,
:h Ajnongft whiclfjirc,
7 ? l y /- Mamoodics
Sanpa, '
nahs Tanda Coffaes
Gnzgin , Eniertic#
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palanapooj-s Romall Handke. chiefs
• theni are a great proportion of the
1 nnpufaaures of Patna. .
Decenibc r i.
* ' All Perions
>. , JI;l /, ,u «^ n y^™anIts 1 ts agaiflft tie Eflate of the
late Captain George Irwin, are requdled to
• h, n fZ m ,L V r a A cc °' J " ti P>°pe f ly aUcfled, on or
. , f. ftrft d fy nt January next tnfuing
and thole who are indebted to said estate are so
licited to make -immediate payment to
ciAHAH IRWIN, Administratrix. >
nov. iq 1797. ,
JUST RECEIVED,
r ,(via New-York)
and now opening, by
George Dobson,
No »5, f»uth Third street,
L A "' cxt enfive and general alTortment of
HABERDASHERY, viz.
. ® dl Londotf miit Pins Galloon,and Ferret,
L.mraon do. do. Worfled Binding,.affor
' Maken.ie sfuper,patent ted colours
white chapel Needles Imperial, diaper, and
Nuns Thread no. 6to Thread Tapes
40, regularly aflorted White Edgings
do.no. 130 to joe, Black rad coloured CM
regularly assorted nefe Ribbands
Coloured do. Sattin f lgurc<l do
, Black sewing S.lk, Black Velvet! 1-4 to i id
Ccdoured do. and Twist Velvet & pelon Sattins
Silk and cotton Wire, French Cambi ick
Do. do. Ribbands S«otch do.
Shirt Mo.ld. and Wire, Plain gilt and plated
Black bryjk Feathers Buttons
And a complcat assortment of G»ods, fuittble
to the and ap f road»i« g fettlpn, at reduced
g' rgy 6. dtf
THE PARTNERSHIP or ~ "
Richard & James Potter,
TSthis day dissolved, by mutual consent. All
1 perfonsindebted to the said firm, are requefled
to pay the feme to either of the fcbfcritoj; and
ail persons having any demands againll them, are
requested to fend their accounts /oi settlement.
Richard Potter,
James Potter.
December 9. $
Ihe Subicriber intends to make
application for fcbe renewal of a Certificate 01 a W„re
in the Bank,ol the United State., ft.ndlngin the name
h a k ? datcd J u| y >797, !h? fame
having been Wl. J OHN ORAHAM.
Richmond, Dct. x •
' "ROSS & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE, ' ,
A few bales Baftas, Coffas, and
A a quantity of Bengal COTTON
I3engal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica, %
St. Vincents, ( RUM. _ r ,, ?'■
and Bengal J
300 caiks RICE, ;nd
A parcel of ship building RED CEDAR
' i
Chocolate and Muftatd,
of a Tuperior quality manufaflured,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; (helled or
pearl IWley ; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Aie and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale •
London Porter; red. Port and Lilbon Wine)
luitahle far exportation or home consumption.
The highest pi ice given for Muflard-Seed. '
W//o forfait, -A quantity of Bocking and
common Baizes, a varietv of colort j a bale of
Fullians, Shawls, &c, for'falehy
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, south Front-flrett.
Nov. 47. m.&th.t.ij.
Imported (via New York) on the
ftiip Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
faie by the fubferiber, at N0.61, Chefßut street,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Maharagonees Charconna Dorens
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked muslins
Gillis RomaU Bandannoes
Nillas & Penfiafoes Chafia Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
MuJlMullhanket-chiefs Palempore.
Patria- do. Banares Opium
Leffcr Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wiltox.
November 17 i\h M w
To Gentlemen who intend Jjjcnding
the Winter in the City.
JIOOMS to LET,
\ IT" 1 ™ or without Board—at No. 114, corner
\ i of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. « Pel. 17.—dtf
BY virtue of an order of the Orphan's Couft,
w>!l be cxpofed to Sale, on the 26th current
at 9 o'clock,4. M. at the premises, a fmallframe
House and Lot, situated on the corner of Sprt ce
and Eighth streets, fubjeit to an annual ground
rent of fifteen pounds, late the property of An
thony Lebeck, deceased.
MARGARET LEBSCK, AimMfiratrix.
December 16. 'v.,.
[Vol i'MS XIIPHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 45.
KEFLMJTIOXS C'/ PE ACE.
In mferiesofltttenjtoaSinaXotoftbfXjnUedStatet.
P'. AR SIR,
IK contemplating theaJvantages which man
kind dierive from the introd'uilion apd
or civilization, the mind is eq'i.»l!y difpoftd to
a and to praise that goodness which-, with
the bl'-fJinKscf christianity, beßo'.ved the difpp
fition to mild and gentle iof.ans ps jullice.
The fpir(t c,f " Charity, which like the dew
of Heaven", it 'inspires, ha» hj<|a general tcu
,deney to she adoption of thofefyftems ofgnvern
mcirt and codes of laws f by'-which men obtain
security and fmd relief from iryuflice, more fa%-
appealiiij to the uncertain, iffie of
powerjor individual flrength. " The
raee being not to the fwift, or the battle to the
flrong."
In the firft flages of every rude and lavage fo
tiety, it appears that the difpufes between its
memb."rs w ere generally determined on princi
ples neither relevant to th# cafe nor likely to cfta
hlKh justice. In England as well as in France
(1) an appeal to arms, a perfooal combat was
for a confideralilc time the only critenon by
which right and wrong was determined, or even
truth or talfehood eftablilbed or believed !
On similar ground-', for n®ne other could ever
horiginated tha barbarous cuftoin, we are
t.t l'iir,i;iMe that firft and greatest evil to man
kind, A warring distortion began.
The jjleas of juftification which the modern
tnaKifeftoes 0/ civilized nations generally offer,
tor continuing thn bloedy proofa of error or of
injiifticc, are as futile as the flame which th«
purf'uit is meant to eftablilh.
To obtain redress for wrongs, or reparation
for injuries, real or pretended, by a national
cuarrel, hai been founij " the feeble resource of
weak-mind v\ mifcifters and wicked men. To
To juftify the nvfulal of a demanded right, to
renair or defend the miflaien jtnloufy of nation
al honor, to gratify revente, majnuwv usurped
ruthoritv, or fatibfv amsiiion and tiie love of
fame, '• the dogs of war" are let 100 e ucon
ninltiad ! llow unlikely to produce the deO'jns
of jnfiice ! Th? gidcy libertine or drunken ra
viflier, the liar and the thief, if but of rank to
<<l)tain a like di-nfion, will juftify and dtfst'id
tneir deeds by the fame policy, in the tame way,
snd with equal propriety too I ! I Look at ihofe
nati.-ns. of v.-hom the'hili ric page relates the
vi<florJi- and recounts the conqjeUs ! Examine
the interesting voluaies ot their expetlltiorK, ar
mies, equipage, prisoners and plunder, and thm
retlcih like a politician, a? well a man, upnn
the C;>NslqutNer. 1 I Where hnsv is the iame
of conquering Home ? of proud Carthsge >. of
Athens ? Where it the fading tame of the con
quering nations of Europe flyinjj to at
it.': :;::.! —To every spot where Industry
or Freedom can find a the Olive
branch of peace -vears a futile, th; Tree of
Liberty bears a
The ifl-r.ds of It»ly were peopled by fugitives
frotn tVeius of war m.I dtfolation I They erect
ed th' standard snd fprrad the fads of Com
merce amongst barren finds, ihillles, and
.briars ! they demonstrated that ivhere Peace is
fcur.J Commerce r ~vi!i d.ftre to dwell, and where
there is Commerce there :s Plenty. Let it then
be eftjd)li(h»</ an a CREED in the mind of every
g#od Man, of every Christian, and of every ;
Politician c«id" Patriot too, that the Arts of
Peace are the fafeft,- the belt, the ulti.Tiite an '
the only tcrreftial national btelTings, jntler svh'cli
A PSO»LE rfeferve or can obtain, Gthbri'j for
Wij'dom or Fame for Hafflinefr.
In tracing arvd confid'ermtc the prncrtfs of eve
ry 1: iticn of which Ifftcrj records rfee condufl,
we Ciall find Improvement to hare' Been mote
impeded l>r WAlt, than by everv »ther evil or
obflatlc which the infant knowledge of good
Government must, in early times, have had to
encounter. Tte acquisition of Wealth has been
discouraged the natural flaw of its in
crease, by the usurping and greedy hand of
Power, thereby become neceflitous divnted
from the channels of its general cifrfent thro'
the beil »f Induflry, into courses of more con
fined individual speculation, deception and dif
guifc. WAR has, in e?ery age and ceuntry,
from the savage to the civilized state, not only
produced many evils, but tWe of the greatest
magnitude and importance to the society.
It has »n immediate aud inevitable tendency
to diminilh the national Revenue, when ( at the
fame time, it is plat ed m'oft in need of aug
mentation., Its effcifls on Industry are not kfs
injurious or less certain, by curtailing the Oe
niand and consequently »he reward of Labor
under thole difcouragemeuts Cultivation lan
guishes, Trade and Corpmerct become enfeebled,
and Improvement? cease !
But its effects on Domestic Tranquility, what
pen can eve,- feebly paint ? Memory of Ameri
ca revive !*•"*.
Once in the history of a nation u may happen
thatH eaufe occurs to juftify, in every view, the
fad resource of " flight to arms" -such was
yours I . But let oblivion fpohge up the floods of
sorrow which it caused to flow from private fuf ■
feriug, and Hop thol' rivers of tears which even
yet are not dried up ! Genius of Humanity! pour
balm into those wounds which the strength of
the purest patriotism scarce cae mitigate ! *hich
»o viflory or success can heal I The trumpet,
which announced «' a ro»ted enemy," made
tremble the tender firings of every tie for which
the t'.i:riot bled ! The amiable Matron breathed
the p'aife of thanks " thjt dearest connex
ion wis in the field»f Viflory ! When, lo I ano
ther found •« A truce to bury the Dead !"
Behold her they bereft of,h : m for whom Ihe jutl
bad praif'd e'en Heaven itfelf ! in vain'her fup
plicvting eyes retail him from the grave. Her
unprotedled prattlers join their innocent hfpings,
their'tears, their invocations I bis.foot is heard
m more 11 her neighbours afford , nnly the too
. feelingfympatby of fell+w-fuffering, for each has
. 4oft a hufb*nd, father, brother, or friend !
where then to them is the glory or the gratifica
tion of the viflory ? Who will feed or educate
their little ones ? Who guard their infant growth
snd *ead then! up to men I Who caution them
'affMaft ttffc'fnares of'vice, and psiut out the
paths to >duftrloUs preferment» Who form,
thcirtUaraclers, that '« they miy biufh whofc
fathers were tte r fees ? (, i J *' _
Behold th,e catalogue of the flam . filled -With
the ti*mes of the .bcO citizens, the fc'ilt patt.on,
and the best men ! those " where emin ncereu
dsr-d their names umverfaily their influ
ence extcnfivc, and their attachments numerous."
{*) -Contemplate the ucprovided widow Knd the '
ejpofed virgin orphan ! year clittl / that thought
oive death a fling, and made i- smart, which else
had scarce teen felt—in vain they call "leryert er .
<lay to come," and think of all the dear domeftie
" jrps departed never to return —Oh I how pain
ful the ren embrance "
/l) Spirit of vol. 2, p. a.i3 i'f/eque'-
(1) Army's nridrefs tc Genual H'ajbir&to::,
November, 1783.
. (i) /Jventurer, W-'. 4» t Z4-
Tijc trcly chrulian I oiidw». et-gaai'.y o
f-icyrtc, in his p...er.i on ,iea+h, i-uti ..]
sji'- Cur ,71,/.r/itrmaln .r wilUTn, n } 'tr »/" '
Tile firil >fT.>tisof our fchjooU ihculdeipcfe th:»to
infancy, and " iinpreft upon ca.h growing.ip.nd" j
tl«e ni. i?:ichot^'it; jllitc >v!»ich !ii°;acy hasmsdc.ia ,<0
hblditig up a iomjufiror to sSaijiaiiKD, iiilleaj 'jf a a
tyrant AJ (j yer ot the human rvcej to g' n I'a! ai>-
hoijrvoce !in
cf men under the -cliara&ew of heroti whose
conduA (hjuld be tranfmitsed with d<t.aftatioii to 11
the ljuSft poft;r;fy ! and the narfies of Cain and e
Alexander, Cxtar, Curt », Charles and Ctive, be
b'crded In on - common view of horror! while
the friends and promoters of human felicity,the p»- ,
riot dele-ndcrs of freed,;m alone filould he held i(p J
as 01-jefls oF admiration and praise, a» fit ex- J 1
aniplse of imitation. ji
To tlie of a p?ople It is nceJlefj ta' J
ol'fervc thar war has ever been dcP.ruftiv, 1 , the
c-p(ifle hi'tffi i'y j-rcfervrd, tfie who!cfolVi*' trl^*vi
re_ raicts imposed in times of p;ace, accord but4.lL j. '
with the relied (late cf morality current a nr n
a licentious folc'.iery ;jn army in time Of war, coir.- t
posed of the idle and indolent, who millakinj;ikc'J\
campTatr a'plaad'ttr indulgence, seek lhelterfrom i c
obfervaiion, or perhaps from juflice, asd wwtr, 1;
their wortlileflhcfs or ofifertee with an uni-orta, „.I
coat, »or can the UtpioiL vigilance of the belt o {ft - ;
errs, joined to the good disposition of those men , I
who are well Inclined amonjft the privates, pre ! t
vent the adoption of those habits which at the end f
of the service they retire with, the fuhjetSs of ap
prehenlion ai.ddread, of which every eoantry that 1
has dilbandejl an array is too well convinced. (J ) '
All or piuft of these evils areinfeparab'efrom,
and proved by the dear bought experience of every
nation "eiilUng as well as txtinfl, to be conlequent
to WAR:
In tracing the decline and fall of empires, dates
and Kingdoms, we should be much more Qonneft- <
ed wi hthe principal caufethan hifiorhns and fpe- "
eulative writers generally a»e, fairly and candidly J
to impute it to that scourge and curse of nations,
a disposition to W AR. It it not however meaut to '
recommend a cold, inaAive and inattentive difpofi- '
tioa and preparation for even that calamity, that
always to be deprecated (late of national fituatioii, ,
but to consider, and recommendilf ta be uiiverfal
ly considered, as tit htm of politicalhealth- to in im
proving and prof permit people.
I am, &c. yours, and always
A FRIEND TO LAWS & FREEDOM.
(\) See the records of the Old Bailey at it he
cloft *f the. war, 1783 —in September Jefie.as
17S were convificd of filoniei, in De -ember
113 more, ofivhicb 81 receivedfentence of death,
.3 to be transported.
/5J The United States arc an \m\<\ut-excep
tion, having mire to boajt on the condufl of the
late continental army than any country upon earth,
nnd more, it is to be fitted, than <wi.'l ever be
the enje ajain. The p .triot army of 1783 de
\ferves to be celebrated tts a theme for praise
<wherevep freedom flourifhes, or car) but ruife her
head. '
Philadelphia, Dec. 23d, 1797.
MR.-FENNO, '
jThe following address is now circulating for
Subfcripticn ; and, it is hoped, will receive
the ftr'wus attention of the citizens of'Ph'da
delphia.
To the Select and Common Councils
of the City of Philadelphia.
The Address and Petition of the sub
scribers, Freeholders and Inhabitants of
the said City.
Fellow Citizens of the Corporation,
While the fufferings and distress of ifar
city, Qpcafioncd by the late contagious fiek
nefs, continue frefli in our memory ; whfld,
in-the (hort period of four years, we can
not ha\? wholly forgotten a former afflic
tion of the like kind, nor the »umber of
our deat friends, relatives, and neighbours"
whom we have" lament at the nnurnful
vi&ims of both visitations ; —and, finally,"
while we are devoutly to acknowledge that
kind Providenct which has fparcd ©tir cJv/n
lives from the (hafts of mortality which ftcW
thick around ut, and hath restored our city
to its usual .state of health and prosperity,
we ought not to be unmindful of the means
which, under the fa>or of heaven, may ap
pear the melt effeftual, to prevent or miti
gate the return of the like calamities.
The chief magistrate of the common
wealth, in his address to the legislature,- af
ter a pathetic detail of some of the parti
culars, relating to the progress and extent
of the mortality, hath with a solicitude (uit
ed to the occasion, recommended certain
measures, as peculiar objects of legijlatlve at
tention aud provision, " in order to guard
more efFe£tu3lly against the introduction of
pestilential and contagious difeaTes from
foreign countries ; founded on plans detailed
to him by the College of Physicians, by o
ther learned members of the faculty, and by
the Infpe&ors of the Health-office."
He has also proposed and recommended
Other remedies, absolutely necefTary ia co
operation with the legislative provision, Whe
ther the contagion be imparted from foreign
countries, or may be generated here ; and
chiefly, "An attention to the clcanlinefs of the
city, its avenues, and vacant lots, together with
the infuringfuch a supply of water, through
the medium of canals, as appears now to have
become ejfential to the general convcnienee, at
well as to the health of the community,'' both
in the city and its suburbs. Fof this end,
the exertion of tire corporate bodies, which
are constituted for the local purposes of the
city, the Northern Liberties and diftridt of
Southwark, with the extension of their pow
ers, as well as other legislative aid, are
pointed out as neceflaryJ
In this great Work, we trust the city cor
poration will consider it as their duty to take
the lead, not only as particularly interejled,
but as having the chief means iu their pow
er. For it seems demonstrable that the loss
to the city, in a fingli visitation of this con
tagious disease, (if it could be preventpd_<p.r
greatly allayed by cleanliness, and a copious
supply of water, not to mention the use of
water for preventing or subduing the devas
tations of fire, is more, perhaps, thai? ifie
capital neceflary to insure such a supply o£
water in perpetuity, even if no interest ,werv
to accrue (on the capital to be expended)
for the use of water in families.
It appears from the statement in the gov
ernor's address, tkat even in the late fiekneft
the incidental orextra expences of the health
office, the legislative grant, and other contri
butions for the poor amounted to 42,000
dollars; and the loss arising from two ol- three
months fnfpenfion of our commerce, of ma
nufacturing- and mechanical bufincfs; the
expence ofthe multitude of families by which
near half the c!ty vvEscvscuateil, nottofpeak
>f the rnvftiin-L'e loss of fit lead 1000 valu- 111
>ble citizens, who fell victims to the' disease tt
aftfily be imagined, than accurate- rr
.y calculated. Add to'this the immense loss c:
jftqi experienced fiom fire, when but only
* fe«v houses are consumed, and what might tl
be thiflols from a more extended fonfiagra- n
t:on, for want of a ready supply of -water I
need liardjy be mentioned. Your petition- It
ers, lhere[ore, earricftly requejl, t'
That the corporation, as fathers of the p
city, as gqardians bf the poor, and of the c
health and prosperity of thfcir fellow citizens il
ii) general, willt3kethe premises into their a
jmmtoijte wife and efTc'dtual Consideration ; I r
i ) (Jqißg v.hieh, your fetitiotiers wi(h to f
mwißtlku your refolutidfli by h
Tliat, as t ¥ar' , 'li»^.fiejr : &n collect the fenti- a
riients sis their fellow citizens in general,
is 'bo bßjedt of'tlfe or ornament, to
\vhtsh H Wi'eral proportion of the city funds i
applied,thati to the
preieViti; tvtn'if no ret-ufti of Intereji on the f
Capitil were to be expedted. We therefore j c
have a full confidence in the patriotism of' c
those whom we adclrefs, that speedy and ef- j t
fcdtu.'.'l measures to accomplilh our wishes j 1
will he devised and pursued. v
iQIIIjIHIBI 11l 11 ■ t
Foreign Intelligence, 1
WHITEHALL, Oft. 17. I
The king has been pleased to grant the '
dignity of a viftpunt of the king of Great- 1
Britain, to Adam Duncan, Esq. admiral of '
the Blue squadron of his nujedy's fleet, and
the heirs male of his body lawfully begot- '
ten, bj the name, dile, artd title of Viscount '
Duncan, of Camptrdown, and of Lundieln <
our shire of PertV
The king has also been pleased to grant 1
the dignity of a baronet of the kingdom of
Great-Britain to Richard Onflow, Esq.
of the Red squadron of his
maj^dy »nd the heirs male of "his
bggstten.
LONDON, Oft. 10.
Wethis morning lefume our extrafts from
the French paper*. The report of Ramel
couveys some idea of the state of the French
finances, when the grant of two hundred
millions in paper, was reduced, by the de
preciation of the credft of government, to
the vfdyu of less than nine millions in specie.
The French plenipotentiaries at Lisle, in
fending away Lord Malmediury for the
purpose of obtaining new powers to treat
definitively oq the basis of the total restitu
tion oronr conquests, made from France
and her aUicvwcre desirous to appear as if
they were not the fird to break off the ne
gociation. It nqw seems, that in order to
give fonae colour to that design, the plenipo
tentiaries are to remain at Lisle until the
16th ind. in expeftation of Lord Malmef
bary's return to that place, with the necessa
ry powers.
In eonftquenee of these proceedings,
Viek, the messenger, was dispatched to Lisle
soon after ( Malmeftjury return to Loo
don, to figflify tl>at th« basis of the nego
i j) by waS such,
tfijjt.it could,not lead to an happy termi
nation. But the dlreftory (lillperfifling in the
delfgtf bPgfvTbg' i plausible air to its exor
bitant pretensions, sent Moufieur de la Clue
Wout' Wth a note, e'6ntaining in faft
demands as imperious as before, but glossed
terWis of grfat civility. Indeed**
trf it may be remarked as the
mod polite of any that has yet passed from
the French
"Lisle, 10 Vendemcare (08. S.J 6thyear.
" The plenipotentiaries of the French re
public, charged to' negociate peace with
England, have the honor to inform Lord
Malmefbury, that having addressed a copy
of 5 his lad note t>f Sept. 25, 1797, to their
government', the executive direftory has di
refted thfm to declare in its name, that it
has not Ceased to desire peace ; —thpt it gave
unequivocal proofs of the sentiment which
aftuati:d it, when it ordered theminiders of
the republic to demand a categorical expli
cation, with regard to the powers veded In
its minister plenipotentiary by the English
government; that such a proceeding neither
had, nor could have, any other objeft than
to bring the negociation to a speedy and
happy issue.
The order givan to tha miniders plenipo
tentiaries of the republic to remain at Lisle,
after Lord Malinelbury's departure, is a
farther proof that the direftory'defired, and
provided for, his return with foch powers
as would not be illusory ; and the limitation
of whieh would no longer afford a pretext
for retarding the conclusion of peace.
" That luch are invariably the intentions
and hopes of the executive direftory, which
enjoins the miniders plenipotentiaries of the
republic not to quit Lisle, till such time as
the' prolonged absence of the negotiator
(hall no longer leave room to doubt the in
tention of his Britannic majelty to break
off atf negociation.
" That, in confequeftce, the 29th Vende
maiie inft. (Oft. 16, O. S.) is the period
fixed for the recall of the miniders plenipo
tentiaries of the French republic, in cafe
that the minider plenipotentiary of his Bri
tannic majedy fliould not return to 'Lisle by
the above epoch.
" The executive direftory will experience
great regret, In cafe that an accommodation,
1 already twice entered upon, (hould not be
' cqnfummgte4-t; but its own conscienCe, and
• all Eilrdpe will render tedimony, that it is
1 We' EiVg!ifh'ghvernrneiit that will inflict the
f £courge of war on the two nations.
1./ miniders plenipotentiaries of the
French republic beg the minister plenipoten
tiary of his Britannic majedy to accept the
- affuranw sos their high consideration.
1 (Signed)
" TREILHARD,
" BONMTER. ,
i " DERCHE, the Secretary of Legation."
The answer returned by our Cabinet has,
we have no doubt, been as polite, in point
1 offynn, as the note of the Direftory ; but
as the dignity and the interelt of the nation
unite iu refufmg our aequ'efctnce to the ex- v,
traordinary demands of the French frovern- tl
meut', it is highly improbable that the nego- v
ciation will be resumed for the present.
With refpeft to the sorrow expressed by w
the Direftory on the unfortnnate turn of the C
negociation, and its appeal to the powers of a
Europe, that to -the Engliftt-government p- J
lone is to be attributed the continuance of h
the war, they can only be confidercd ashy
pocritical pro'eft at ions, of which no person fc
can be the dupe, who diverts them of those I
illusive expreflions which the new republican I
adminiftratiort has fubftitiited for the Car- f
magnolesof the ancient committee of public a
fafety, the spirit and znimofity of which it i
has, however, preferred both izt the aftual t
and preceding megocktious. J sri 1
Oftober 12.
The army of the Prince $f Cofide is now t
in the service of Ruilia. 1
We learn by a letter from. Madrid,.iu- c
fcrted in the French papers, that the Prince f
j of Peace, who was comptomifed in the de
-1 elaration made by Dunan, has declared to f
j the French Arabaffador, that his Catholic 1
j Majedy has condantly rejedted all the infin-
I nations and propufals whidh have been milde c
to hiro, to engage him to break or.to violate j
the treaty which he had entered into with
the French government. He also made, a
protcftation of his own unlimited attachment
to that goveenment ; and adds, that every !
thing contained in Duncan's declaration is I
merely founded on fuppoliti'on and calumny. 1
What therefore are we to think of this con- I
fpiracy, under the ma(k of which the Di
tory has proceeded with such severity a- i
gainst the deputies who were in opposition i
to its power, has no other foundation than
in the declaration of Duuan ?
One of our papers dates, that the city of
Aix is declared in a state of liege, and its
inhabitants disarmed. ,
Oftober ,
The price demanded bjr u the Exeeutive
Direftory. for the liberation $f Sir Sidney
Smith, has been erroneogfly stated ; it was
not four hundred but four thousand men
that they have required. It is also untrue
that Sir Sidney is.on his parole ; he is Hill
in close confinement.
Our government, it is said, have declined
to purehafe the exahange of Sir Sidney
Smith at the price put upon his liberty, by
the Directory of France. It would certain
ly be edablifliing a veiy bad precedent to ac
cede to the unreasonable proposition of re
turning an officer of equal rank and 4000
men for any officer, whatever may be his
merits.
A Utter from Udina, dated September
13; contains the following Statements':
" After the fitting of the nth, the Pleni
potentiaries fcparated, observing that they
were not to meet again. A total silence
prevailed relative to whatever passed at the
late conferences.—lt is supposed that the
parties would not have been so discreet, pro
vided they had been enabled to communicate
good and fatisfaftory intelligence. What
renders us dill more easy, is the sudden de
parture of general Meerfeldt, sent to the
' Gongrefs by the Emperor 1 " Such are our
advises from Udina.
Thofa fromStradmrg are far more fatif
faftory. We fliall insert them to the end,
that our readers may c'ompare'them with the
[ foregoing «x tract. Our article is dated
from Strafburg, September 27, and is as
! follows:—" An agent of the Landgrave of
Darmdadt, who relides at Cork, has juit
received a paeket from the Landgrave, in
which he dates to him, that his nliiiift#r at
Vienna had just transmitted to him an cx
( traordinary courier, with the agreeable in
[ telligence, that the Emperor had just ratifi
ed the'definitive articles of peace iigned at
Udina, and broyglit to him express by gen
eral Meerfeldt. This important intelligence
has been proclaimed throughout the whole
1 extent of the right bank of the Rhine, and
' has just been communicated by adjutant gen,'
feral Poliffart to the generals redding in this
city."
By this day's Mail.
1 NEW-YORK, December 25.
From the New-Fork Gaxette.
, LATEST FROM M.IJf
-1 The various and conlradid'jry Reports at-
I the Coffee-Houfe, on Saturday evening,
s are condensed into the following, which are
i direst from Capt. Peterfon.
t Captain Peterfon, of the brig Eliza, of
Philadelphia, arrived here on Saturday,
? from Bourdeaux, which place he left ou the
1 26th of Oftober, and the mouth of the ri
c ver tht firft of November.
9 On the 29th of October, he went on
r fiiore at a froalltown, called Royan, on the
. North fide of tie river, for the purpose of
c laying in bread for the voyage; at this place
he saw several French seamen, who had thai
- day arrived from the fleet at Bred, and were
i then embarking in a small vessel for Bour
!- deax. One of the sailors, who belonged
e to Royan, ftnd whose wife lived there, in
formed Capt. Peterfon, that the fleet at
y BREST WAS LAID UP, IN CONSEQUENCE OF
THEIR. NOT BEING ABLE TO MAN THEIR,
e ships; and, that the French Direftory had
1, issued a Proclamation offering their frigates
e to such merchants as thought proper to ac
d cept of them as privateers, they allowed go
s vernmetT? one-third of the priiie money,
e This datemeut, we thinkftoiay be depen
ded on, for these reafons,—-\Captain Peter
t son speaks the French language, appears to
1- be an intelligent man, ar.d was folicitons to
e be the bearet of NEWS—[truly worthy im
itating.'] This is evinced from the circum
dance of his detaining his veflel several hour*
after he was ready to fail, for the arrival of
1 the Mail from Pars, which he did in cxpec
" | tation of receiving intelligence from tfoenee.
I Mr. Fenwitk, our Cons il at Bourdeax, told
s, f captain Peterfon that he did not think it
it j worth his while to wait longer—-The Ca;jt.
:t' then rcqiieded the Cooful to favour him
>n : with jtffcal news he was in poffeflion of, lt>
which he replied,tha: lis kn- •• n<*'t&iri "
than Captain P. did. and failed without e
ven an inclofiire from him.
The news of Admiral Duncan's vi&ory
was publilhed in France forne dayß before 1
Capt. P. failed.— A.t this event, it was faS4
at the Tontine, " the French took tnrltrsge.'/**
Put no accowues of aiiy engagement byiand,
had reached there.
Capt. Petcrfon left at Bourdsaus, the
brig ik'njamiii Franklin, Loyd Jones, of
Philadelphia, to fail in ten days—the shipS
Hope,' Bainbrige, and Alexander, Brown,
for the Weft-Indies—(hips Echo, Gibfon,
and Louisa, Roger Kane, the latter to fail
iri three or four days for Philadelphia; and
the schooner Virginia, Cirfliirtg—all of '
Philadelphia. '
The (hip Mary, Staibyck, brig Washing*
t6n, Graham, and barque Frieudfhip, the
latter reputed to have been condemned —all
of New York, and the copper bdttofned
(hip Eliza, of Baltimoie.
The (hip Aurora, of and from Chatlefton,
failed for Charkfton, in company with capt.
Peterfon.
A brig from falem in 35 days anchored
off the Cordavan a few hours before Capt. Pi
got under way. i
From the Commercial Atlveriifer. *
We have received by the brig Eliza, from
Bourdea'ux, a number of Paris prints down
to O<S. 25, but they contain not much itt
terefting news. The following is the fnb
ftance of the important articles :
A letter from Semlin mentions that the
disturbances increase in Turkey, and that
the rebel? threaten the capital of the Em
pire.
The Bafliaw of Belgrade has received
orders to restore to the fubje&s of the Em
peror all merchandize taken from them, on
occasion of certain disputes, demanding on-\
ly a trifling indemnification from the own
ers ; and alio he is prohibited fro*) giviti§
fhelterto the fubje£ts of 'the Enrperoi* 1 who'
may hare taken refuge in the Turkish terri
tories, and enjoined to treat the Germans,
in all circumstances, with diiliinSion.
A conclusion has been drawn from' these
orderfe, that a good understanding subsists
between the Ottoman and the two Imperial
courts.
News from Udi»a to Sept. 18, relate*,
that the fufpeßllon of arms between Gen-
Buopaparte and the Atillrian generali
had been prolonged for twerity days. Ge
neral Meerfeldt had just returned from Vi
enna f the plenipotentiaries had an interview
at the end of whioh a messenger had been
difpatehed by Buonaparte to Paris.
Gen. Angereau had arrived at the head
quarters of the army of the Rhine.
Considerable movements appeared in the.
Imperial army : a body of troops had mo
ved towards the lower part of trie Black
Forest, towards Pfortzheim, Calo, &c.—
■ The artillery at Heidenheim had been or
• dercd to approach the army. Acconnts
from Stutgard and Frankfort agree irj fta
■ tiug the movements tol>e general, 6flt _ftrqyg
hopes were entertained on the Rhine that
peace would take place without a renewal
of hostilities. [We do sot know nor can
we conjecture on what grounds these' hopes
1 are cherilhed.J
Jouidau lias pronounced funeral eu
' logy of General Hoehe and Ignore Ri
> ouffe that of Louvet. A fubfeription is
f opened in the army of the S-ambrc apd
• Meufe, it* raise a maufnVuH) to the memory
1 of Hoche at Wcififenthurn. ■
At Rouen the young men of the requili
- tion are daily arrelled, and compelled to join
- their standards.
From Grat/, wt have the following state
: meat of the Austrian force to oppose the
• French— 109 battalions, 68 private compa
: nies of infantry and 26 squadrons of caval
■ ry—commanded by two generals of artille
' ry—twelve field marshals and twenty-nine
' major generals. There are 137 pieces of
• cannon in the park of reserve. The left
wing commaiided by general count de Wal
-1 lis—the right by general Hoze, the center
by Gen. Terzy. Besides these troops, there
is a body in. Tyrol, uuder General Ker
oen ; another in Iftria under general Keb
lerfch, and a third in Dalmatia under gen.
Rtickawina. <
New'difcontents arise in France. The
proposed law respecting the nobles is fevere
t. ly censured in furiae of,the gazettes, as un
, constitutional and ruinous to the creditor*
: of the nobles. At Bourdeaux, the direc
tors of the grand theatre advertised a piece
f entitled " The three Sultans, or Solyman
, II." The constituted authorities no soon
; er heard of it than they took severe mea
- Aires to prevent the reprtfentation of tile
piece, and the manager Latappy received a
1 lesson calculated to let him know that the
• period of audacity was plffcd,
f At Paris the Gazette Politique is fup
e preifed, for pursuing the path of tht gazette
; of France..
e Great movements are mentioned to have
- taken place in Bi-etagne; since the t8 Fruc
-1 tidor, among the dilaffefted ; colleclions of
- men in various places, in l'lile and Vilsine,
r on the confines of Mayenne and , Loaer
p Normaady, threaten serious dillurbances.
r. At Caen and its vicipity laws are violated
J with impunity. Liberty trees are. cut down
■s in the night, buildings burnt and persons al
faffinated. Measures of severity are every
i- where taken to suppress these difor^rs—
every day fume leaders are arri-ft:d—Tha
1- police'of Paris has fe&eft a work by Prud
■- hommf, called the " crimes of the levqlu
o tion." Multitudes of emigrants are con
o UausHy palling thro' Bade, bidding a final
i- adieu to France—their property and con
i- neftions.
■» A Paris article of October 12 fays, the
>f treaty with Portugal was to have been rati
tied by the court of Liftjon in 60 days—6o
r . davs have already elapsed, and the ratifica
d tion is not arrived. The chevalier d'Aran
it jo is uriealy, for fc?r that court has givea
t. way to the influence and menaces of tiie ca
rt biixttjaf St. James's. But an article from
t> Bayonne of Oft. 17, fava that two cowersfrom Litbon had r.rrived there sni inform,
ed the comxifl':;ry of jhfc 3lr< •» »ry that they
Were the bearers «| the. ratification to Pat is.
Laatbifdftg is the new ifcinffterwf jultiec.
He is a tiative.of Belgiurtn, anuthis appoint
ment is confide red as a very politic aft. He
is said to L« a zealous defender of the re
public and patriots. He has ad
drefled to the judges and c'ommifTarfes a let
ter, exprtHing in warm terms, his approba
tion of the late measures of the direftory.
The courier fiom Bayonne to Bourdeaux
was flapped the 14th Oft. and robbed by
fill n Such crimes are said in French
punts, to multiply in a frightful degree. At
Mantauban a b6dy of 4000 troops is neces
sary to preserve peace and the number is to
be increased. It is said that a bag had been
found in the highway, with 9000 small
cards, inferihed with the name of Jesus,
which were to be distributed as proteftions
against the fury of the royalists, in cafe they
had succeeded.
A company of merchants is formed in
the place of viftory in Paris, which excites
some speculations. Two regulations art
ty them rigidly enforced—that to beeome
mpmbers, it is neceflary to be a merchant,
and to have never failed in fulfilling en
gagements. Their particular objefts are
not announced.
The direftory not having fixed on a plfiye
of exile for the emigrants seized in virtue of
the law of 19th Fruftidor, the minilter of
juftipehas written to the executive officers in
all parts of the republic to suspend their de
parture, and by all means to prevent their
escape.
Boulay, of the Council of Five Hundred
has presented a project of a resolution, by
which all nobles and pnnobled persons are to
be declared not French citizens, and are not
to acquire citizenfiiip biit on the conditioni
of ft ranger j—adjourned.
The Z2tl September theanniverfary of the
foundation 0/ the republic, happened to be
a cleaf and pleafivnt day.at Paris, on which
(.ircumltance it was observed that " God is j
a republican."
The canton of Zurich have voted to in
vite. the whole Helvetic confederacy to fend
9 minilter to the Cisalpine republic, for the
purpose oF congratulation.
Dumas, member of the Council of Elders
has arrived et Hamburgh.
Buonaparte has written to government —
" A single order of the Directory will (hake
all thrones, if the combined powers do not
hasten to sign a peace." »'
The following is the state of the French
force in, Italy.
Thirty fiz thousand foreign troops "diltri
buted jn different places.
Eighty thousand French troops in the
Grand Army.
4 Ten thousand Cisalpine troops, eight
thousand Poles," fix thousand Genoese. In
addittion ten thousand men from Piedmont
•re expefted. From 40 to 50,000 Italian
patriots are organized into national guards,
well equipped and fill) of fire and patriotism.
Advices from Hague Oft. i, state that a part
of the army of the North is immediately • to
march tojthe borders of the Rhine.
The Direflory have iflued an order •fta'M'.'li
ing.*JUti<»ul lottery, under the infpeition of
three administrators and a calhier. who are to
have under them no agents,-20 infpeitors, 8:0
receivers, 3 comptroller and a f.atiaper. The
'admiiiinVatoi's haVi trtUred on their duties in
the -J _ > V/' |
The Senate of Hamburgh have prohibited
jtW entry lif all ftrangofi s and emigrants into
tint city, on acco'int of the grea£ number of
fofeigner< already residing there, 10 t^ e injury
of their own citizens. The fame menfure is a
ydopted by Holflein and the City of Altona.
The family of Ljjolais is set at liberty.
An arret of the Direflory has prohibited in
the Belgic departments, the use of bells and all
other means of calling people together for pub
lic worlhtp.
An article from Strafhurgh of 0&. 8, fays
Two days ago the Auftrians put a flop to at,!
communication with the French, who octupy
many polls on the right hauk of the Rhine.
Even the post-riders are not permitted to pass,
so that r,o news could be received from the in
terior of Germany ; yet flrong hopes of peace
were entertained.
The law 9 and proclamations of the Direflo
ry, rthtive.to the events of iS PrudJidcr, Sept.
4, which had been ported up at Marseilles were
tArn down and trampled on. The brigands,
fays the paper, ran about the fbeets aud cried
J)o<ui:i with the DireHtry ! General Lafjie,
with a column of 6oco men from Buonaparte's
army; ntade the city quiet Pille commands
the troops at Lyons, and in the environs, to
keep the peace. The camp at JaUs has bc«n
revived. Some thousand* of Royalilts are col
■ Jefled ih the canton of Montpefat, in Ardeche.
Advices from Schaffhaufen of Oftober 9th,
fpe.ik in very politive terms of the ligning of
Peace at Udina, afi.er the return of count Meer
feldtfrom Vienna. ,
The fnbfidiary treaty between Great-Britain
and Hefle Darniiladt is at an end, lays an arti -
cli from He ids lb erg ; and of course the troops
of the latter in pay of the former, are return
ing, so their fire fides
An article from Berne of Oilober 1 lays, the
FrfOih envoy. Maingot, lent by the Dlreilory
to examine the of the ambafTarfor, f!*e
fnppofe BartheleinyJ has orders also to demand
ot the Helvetic confederacy, the expullion of
the Englilh envoy, Wickham, befaufe the Di
reilory are convinced this envoy is in Switzer
lshd Ufs fi>r the purpose of rela
tions. of Great Britain wiih our republic, than
to ,form plans of counter-revolution "against the
French republic.
Strangeis arrive at Bade in crouds from
France. The former Duke U'Aiguillon had ar
rived ill. * '
Canclaux is recalled and Treilhard has fuc
«v«ded him, as miriiiler at Naples—Perignon is
reualledljrora Spain, and Srivjn, formerly min
ille of war, is.to succeed him.
The miiiifter of general police, Sotin, has
written to all the agents in the republic, re
commending them to prohibit theatrical re
presentations, calculated to disturb the pub
lic tranquillity. None but republican pieces
and airs are permitted.
The fame miiTifter has written to the edi
tor of Journal Diurnal, informing him that
the law of 19th Sept. 5, has put
the press finder the ihfpeAion of govern
ment for one year ; and that all the journal
ill's'are to exhibit regularly to the minister
of police two copies of their gazettes, ami
two to the direftory. This c'rdsr extends
to tlse departments well 34 to Paris, and
SatiA'has suspended the d.'pirturtt of the
jxifls to thole who ncgkft to comply.
From Keidelberg, 03. 4. " Letters from
the left bank ®f the Rhine inform that the
county of Falkenltein is ao longer protested
by the French,"but treated as other conquer
ed countries. The officer commanding at
Derkheim has announced that fincethe or
ders received from Paris, all communication
with the right bank of the Rhine would be
interdifted—The imperial polls therefore
tqok no letters for Deux Ponts.
From Hague, 03. 5. Twenty-one com
miffioncrs are appointed to digeit the plan
of a new constitution and wil soon enter en I
their labours. Six of them are of the pro
vince of Holland. The reports of incoor
dination of the Dutch are politicly cani
tradifted.
Not a word French prints refpefting
the American coiumiffioirers.
From Venice, Oftdber 4, it is slated that
for some days part, government had been
recruiting and arming forces. Baron de
Mack had arrived at Gorice, with hi* ftafF,
and was Occupied tn railing redoubts and
batteries in various places. The whole co
lumn and the artillery of General de Tercy
were momently expefted from Leyback at
Gorice. The bakers had orders to prepare
80,000 loaves of bread for this column.
They write from Lausanne, that Paftoret,
Dttplantier, Dumolard, Imbert Colomes,
Camille Jourdan and some others of the
proscribed deputi«s, had aflembled at Con-
Itanfce. It was added that they would
form there the germ of a new polilh confed
eracy, to publilh manifelloes and correspond
with their friends in France.
At Paris, the priests of all opinions make
no scruple to take the oath of hatred to
royalty, to anarchy and fidelity to the re
public. ''
The direftory have ifTued an order, re
' quiring the French armies to be completed
ready'for maithirtg by the 6th October.
Office ojGeneral' Police, Paris.
It is not true, as many journals have re
ported' that the plague ravages Corsica.
Fears were at one time entertained on this
fnbjeft, and measures taken to arrest its
progress in the island, and prevent its propa
gation to France. But dispatches from the
administration at Baftia andAjaccio and re
ports from health-officers prove the disease.
only to have been an epidemic, and that it
is •xtinguifhed.
It is believed we may also eoiitradift the
report of a contagious malady in Philadel
phia. The central bureau at Bourdeaux
prohibited the tntry of the Echo and the
Benjamin Franklin, which arrived Vende
maire nth. The health officers examined
the crews and paflengers and found no sign
of a contagious malady ; in consequence the
vefTels were ordered to be admitted.
(Signed) SOTIN.
An article under the head of the Vienna,
Sept. 20, the latelt date received fays,
" The emperor has just fixed on the city of
Raftadt in the margraviat* .of Baaden, as
the place to hold the conferences relative t®
the peace of the empire. The count Met
ternich \yinnebo«irgj -fommly ratmfter
plenipotentiary in the Low Countries, b
named to fcprcfent the emperor at this Con
_gr«fs.
Letters from Udina mention that the
municipality of that place is to be formed
of decided patriots, foj- which purpose a lift
of them is makin j. The French have laid
a tax-on the pofleffors of fiefs and the clergy,
to* aid in carrying on a war encouraged by
the grandees and priests.
From Rome, it jt said that the French
malady gains ground daily. An aflembly of
Notables is to be convoked, which, it is ex
pefted, will only make things wotfe, and
accelerate a revolution. The
notwithllanding amuses himfelf with canon
izing faints.
; Some changes in diplomacy are expefted
at Paris. It is said Aubert du Bayet from
Constantinople, and Periguon from Spain,
will be recalled.
General Santerre who commands the new
mounted #avalryis gone to the army with
Angereau.
General Miranda, it is said, had escaped
and passed Vevay, in the Pays dc Vaud.
Portalis has arrived in Switzerland.
One Jourtvalift" anriounces the plague to
be in-Corfica f-another, that Dronet is in
Paris.
The following are the particulars of the journey
of the arrejled deputies to Rochefort.
The prisoners, 16 in number, were conveyed
in a chariot, conflruSed for the prisoners of
Vendomc—7 hey passed in 13 days, 16&poJl
leagues from Paris to Rochefort, They ne
ver left the chariot, but on neeeffur.y occasions ;
but eat and slept in it. Their guard eonfijied
of 200 cavalry, and some armedfoldiers who
rode in the carriage, which contained 38 feats*
It merits notice that when the public papers
were read to the prisoners, Barthelemy, on
hearing the denunciation of Moreau, againfl
Pichegru, said to the general," I have always
told you, that you were a traitor. " " If I
am a traitor, replied Pichegru, you are a
coward."
At Tours, a brother of r'ulry offered to give
him money, but he refufedit. The prisoners
were generally lowJfirited, andfumetimes Ihed
tears. Bourdon alone gave himfelf up to li
quor. The famiy of Lafon Ladebathaflened
to Roihefort. The prisoners expeßed to remain
at that plaei, j but they found the Survetllante,
a corvette jf26 guns, completely fitted forfea,
At the news of their departure, they were thun
der flruck—their countenances changed, and all,
even Bourdon himfelf,fied tears. They were
ordered from the carriage, without time to dine
and immediate y embarked.
Before they went on board, the faithfuj
LeteUier the fcrvant of Barthelemy, was affted
rif he per/fled in his majltr, " I have
shared the prof peri ty of my mafler, said he, and
I willfhare his misfortunes." T lhe embarka
tion was effected in the tnv'.rikUng cf an eye ; a
signal was given and a discharge by the troops
On: hundred marines embarked on board) the .
c:r-<rt!c bejides the crew. .
The Jhip had already cajf nff, when a caurisr '
arrived nuilh difpatchts. AJ'gwl nias given
to bring back the returned. A mo
mtntary gleam of hoi.; cur oft in the hearts of the
prfoners—but it tvnt only an order to change
the commander of theJ]:ip andJhc utiftahtly de
parted.
The Directory received two courier:; from
Italy the beginning of O&ober—.fuppofed
to bring the final deeifion of the parries at
Udina, but nothing had tranfpirt.d.. Adju
tant general Deveaux. wr<)te from that place
that the army of Italy bore the most impo
llng attitude. One hundred thoufaid men
ready at (.he firft fuund of the drum to fly to j
victory—He adds, "within a month I (hall I
• C XT' if * It* cTJ - 1 *
write from Vienna/ -. /,• i j.
The Freueh i>re !iav?lai4ji tiamp.,
duty on Gazettes arjd har.d-bajs,
for a paper containing filiate inches.—
[We have some papers with tht,itamp a
semicircular form.]
The faftions in many parts of France are
extremely violent. In the South, 300 p.er
fons are said to have been assassinated by
royalists since the fall of Barthelemy and
company. Gen..Lsfne with aboiy of troops '
is gone to quell the troubles—h&s addressed
a proclamation to all parties, and tranquility
is restored, as usual, at the point of the .
bayonet.
•• ij! »ii i
The " Commercial," Political and Literary
Journjl" of Bourdeaux, contains rn " Extriljfc'l
from the conditions by which the Executive I
Dire<SWy cedes the vtflels belonging to the Ke- ;
public, to private adventurers "
PHIL J DEL PHI A,
TUESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 16.
Three Americans who were confined on
board the Britilh (loop uPfrar, the Huttter,
Tudor Tucker commander, now in New-
York harbor, were lately liberated, thro'
the spirited conduct of the mayor and sun
dry citizens of that place.
* # * The time for receiving proposals to
carry the.mails of the United States is pro
longed from the 30th January to the 114 th
February next— See advertifernent in fourth
page of this gazette.
MR. FENNO,
It is said that the Prcfident has difmifled
Tench Coxe Esq. from the office of Com
miflioner of the Revenue : This, to me Sir,
is most alarming aews ; not that I pretend
to judge of the propriety of the removal, for
well I know the constitution and laws of
our country have vested the President with
this unconditional authority j but I appre
hend a book must be written on thtfubjeft
juftifying the dismissed, and criminating the
government.
Mr. Randolph wrote a book vindicating
his resignation, price half a dollar.
Mr. Monroe, 6ecaufe he was informed
the government of the United. >st*tes hid ho
further need of his diple'matic exertions in
France, wrote a book, price one dollar and
' h s « • -if •'"»'« «-«(• ♦asli I 1
Mr. Coxe mufl, nndoubtedly wrilea book
and as the value, to keep up the proportion
must be found by multiplying the price of.
tbe last book by 3 hj'g, will be price
four and a half dollars.
But there is another still more terrifying
consideration ; Mr. Coxe's well known cir
cumlocutive talents threaten us with a book,
not much less than Cotton Mother's Mag
nalia, which contains acoo folio pages.—
Now, I beseech you Mr. Fenno, to beseech
the President to restore Mr. Coxe. I know
it may be said» and probably with truth,'
that neither M r - Munroe's book, nor Mr.
Coxe's ((Jiould he write one) will be read,
6ut, Sir, if we can prevent the latter from
being written, it will certainly save much
paper, and inkihed, and Mr. Bache's types
are so worn down by the tooth of time, and
by imprelfing so much scandal, that his
printing is fesreely legible now, and Ihould
he be driven to print a book fp tremendous
ly bulky, his types yill be ruined. Do
pray Mr.' Fenno- hint to the President that
the Democratic. Society,, of which Mr.
Blair M'Clenaohan tr»egn so remove
him from his office of PceCdeHt of,the Unit
ed States, if he wilfully periifts in not rc_
signing ; for he was advised in Mr. Bache's
paper, last summer, to resign, lefthefhould
if he continued in office, blunder on, and
dismiss sue good Democrat after another/
till the governmenu should have a chance to
be adminiftercd by its friends.—Aoil fhduld
the Prefidcntbe removed—what a book will
he have to write ?
A DEMOCRAT.
DIED at Falmouth, (Maine) Nov. 28th,
Mr. Hate F.vil Hall, ■/£. 91 years. He
has now living 341 children, viz.
13 Children— 113 Grand Children—
- 214 Children's Grandchildren—l Grand
Child's Grand Child.
65 of the above have been married, which
makes an addition of 65 children by mar
riage.
wife of Gtn. Macpherfon of this city, and
this day her remains were refpe&fully intifc
'AERIAL NAVIGATION.
[This curious ar&jcl; is Re
publican FRANCAJS.j
Citiven Campe-ias, Hydraulic Engineer,
wrote, some months ago, the following let
ter to General Buonaparte- The author de
sires us to publi'ih it j and we are of opinion
that it will certainly excite mtoch curiosity.
f To Citizen Buonaparte, CeHeral in
Chief of the Army of Italy.
" Citizen General, . .
" Your glorious campaigns, dire&ed by
the njsw government of the French republic,
have at Irngth spread the dawn of a general
peace over our continent.
•' The only enemy which retr.aias.ior yon
to combat, is feparafed from us by the sea.
Finish, in the wife manner in which you
have begun, the work of « continental peace j
and then come-arid rep-j'e vonrfelf a while
among us under yonr laurels. .You will be
hold with pleaftive the flourifhiilg I ft ate of
the arts, which you have' cherished from
your infancy; and of which yoti are a, well
beloved pupiL Your multiplied conquefta
have recovered them from that abyss into
which deftril£Mve war had ptijnaed the'nw
The art id who addreffrS you, filltd with the
Jnoft lively gratitude, wiD ere ft, if the
meansof execution be afforded him, a vast
ediSce, whenta, at the condufion of his k
b inrs, there will issue an aerial n ffel, ca
pable of carrying up with you irlure than
two hundred pe'rfens, and which may be
dire£k-d to any point of the compass. I -
myfelf will be your pilot. Yoif ean (hut,
without any danger, hover above the fleets
of enemies jealeus of our happiness, and
thunttar against thera like a new Jupiter,
merely by throwing perpendicularly down
wards fire brands made of a substance which '
will kindle only by the contaft and percus
sion at the end of its'fall, but which it will
be impossible toextiuguifh ;or perhaps you 1
may think it more prudent to begin at.once
by forcing the British cabinet to capitulate,
yhieh you may easily do, as you will have
it in your power to set fire to the city of
London, or to any of the maritime towns
of England. From the calculations I have
made, lam convinced, that, with this ma
chine, you may go from Paris to London, '
and return back again to Paris in twenty
four hoars, without descending.
" The period of th'is ehterprize, if my
humble vojee can be heard, is not far dis
tant. A single campaign would be fuffici*
ent to realise the whole of my plan. Deign,
then, to promote its execution by your cor
refpandence with the Executive Directory
of the French Republic, i have not yet
made any proposal to the Government, be
caiife it would require one million to ca»ry
through this projeft effeftually, and the ex
pences us the war have hitherto absorbed
the whole of the revenues of France.
" The objeft I propose is, to establish,
in the great ocean of the atmosphere, a ge
neral navigation, infinitely more certain and
more advantageous than maritimetiavigation
which has ever disturbed the tranquility of
mankind—to restore the perfefit liberty of
commerce, and to give peace and happiness
to all the nations of the universe, and unite
them as one family. By great labor I have
surmounted the multiplied obstacles which
presented themselves before me ; and my
progressive discoveries are developed in a
work which I have prepared, confiding of
about 400 pages, and divided into five
parts.
" I have (hewn my work to several learn
ed men of this capital. The commissioners
appointed to take my plan into considera
tion (two of whom are members of the na
tional institute, and formerly were members
of the academy) have long meditated upon
my data, which they have frequently ex
amined with the greatest attention : at last,
after a long series of conversations with me,
they have teftified their approbation in the
raoft unanimous and rnpft earnest manner.
" Every moment of your time, brave
general is occupied by your attention to
objects that are conducive to our happiness. 1
I cannot then, and ought not, considering
the distance between us, and fearing left my
letter (hould fall into perfidious hands,
cribe the whole of the long report that has
been made upon this fiibjc&. I (hall Am
ply present you with an extraft from the
last part, of it.
Extraa from the conclu/lon of the r<port.
'' Tn the fifth arid last part of the work
we find detail?, which the author had preser
ved of his firft experiments on Aerostation ;
and we learn that this artist had hitherto ex
perienced only disappointment; but it isob
vious that his combinations and his data ,
carry with them all the charatteriftics of
reason and - truth. •
" Welaftly proceeded to consider the ex-<
periments which the engineer Campenas has
lately made, with a view to th« conftrudtion
of Aerostatic machines, and dire&ing them
to ufeful purposes. We are convinced with
him, as we have already observed, that the
larger the Aeioftatic machines are made,
the more easy will it be to direst them—
becaufa they will present in the air less re
lative resistance in proportion to the num
ber of men they may carry, Sidconfequent
ly insure the progrefsof the direftion. In
deed, if we consider the united strength of
200 agairift the wind, and submit the pow
er of both to calculstion, it will be seen
that the force of the men will be seldom in
ferior to that of the wind. We are there
fore convinced, that it would be highly ad
vantageous to give citizen Campenas zeal
ous and faithful co-operators to aflift him in
the conftru£lion of this machine—lf we con
sider attentively the immense treasures which
maritime navigation absorbs, there is no
thing extravagant in suggesting that three
or four millions might be laid out, if neces
sary, to |realife an attempt, the success of
which must add to the liappißefs of all the
nations of the globe.
" Besides, such an enterprize, if complete
ly fuccefsful, would afford a double advan
tage to the country. The building which
citizen Campenas purposes to establish, and
which may be conftrufted in the Champs-
Elyfees, would always present a monument
worthy of the republic. In it all the civic
fettivals might be celebrated, and all cere
monies performed which requfre great space
and of course cannot be exhibittd in bad
weather. This building is tbe Aerostatic
dock ; and ports and wharfs may be multi
plied in proportion as new vessels are con
' ftrudted. The advantages which a naviga
tion of this kind would infallibly produce,
are so amply demonstrated in the work of
citizen Campenas, that wf do not hesitate
; to recommend the prompt execution of his
plans."
j "P. S. In my trsatife cn neroftatioii, I
''''' ' V •'
propose that the capital city of fucJitodlill*
fiall have a dock for building ccrial Vt'ifc!i 3
an.l an Brbatxtic p'oin,' bavkig- a trtimbfr iff
ttharfs, on, which foreign vcifclstnay ui s!l
times dtfcetid, and remain without'diiM'ef 1
a fnSieient time'to unload, make cOtomttfi'!*
al exchanges, tike in frefii cargbes,
&c. '' E.;t, while these vessels.-m- under fil'lf
the fmallelt of which will carry more the:*
two hundred perfjwis. they will have no ti'i*
Cafiotl tti descend for the purpose of
chnngifig cr purchaiing comn"kSities. The if
powers of direction, by which they .T? ena- 1
bled to make way against the strongest wi*Sl
will serve to make them ascend or defcenu,
or rtir.a:n (tationary at any height requiredj
Two atfhofpberic buoys, each surmounted
with a parachute to be used in cale of any'
accident, must be pi ced la the two paviH'-
ons with, which the two extremities of the
gallery .of jhe veflt I ought to terminate, and
may be let down and taken up at the pita*
fare of the crew, with men* provisions of
artibles of any kind neceifary for manoeuv
ring the veffct.
" Finally, another fin all cylindrical buoy
may be let down from the' centre pavillion
(for the gallery ought to have three pavilli
ons), which would serve to receive, un'.il a
general peace, the capitulations of FortrelT- '
es, See. belonging to our remaining enemies.
During peace this buoy might serve to give
aud receive intelligence, either by day or
night (for it can be illuminated), upon a
plan previously concerted.
" My work, besides, »ontaiq4 all the de
tails neceflary to this kind of failing, and
an atmofplieric code, the regulations of
which have for their sole object the peace
and the happiness of ali the people of the
earth.
( ned)' Camphn aj, I i ydraulic Engineer.
C 3" The Underwriters in the City a
Philadelphia, are requested to meet at thei
room at 6 o'clock this evening, on bufinef
of Importance.
Tuesday, Dec. 26.
There are letters in town which ftatetha*
the Ship- John, capt. Fulgier from liam" 1
burgh, is on ftiore in Delaware Bay, and it
is feared will be 101 l ; about 70 of the pas-<
fengers arc f«ved, the reft were on the wreck,
. New-York, December 25.
The Mary M agdilen, from America, hat
been sent ints Bourdt auX by the Bons Ami« cor
sair—taken under Danifli colours, loaded with
furs. ,
The Letter of Martjue Jemmy, which went
afeore on Saturdiy morning, has since bilged
and filled with water. Chief of her cargo wilt
be saved.
-- ■ 1 "» -
Take Not res.
The adjourr.edmeeting ofthe Stock
holders of the Delaware and Schuyl
kill Canal is to be held this evening
dt their Offiee, precisely at 6 o*clock,
by mi/fake advertised in Saturday'*
Gazettefor Tuef day, "January 2.
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
DECEMBER 26,
Willbe-Prrf ned the 7 1 edl of
GEORGE BARNWELL.
With " nriv Pant rnhi . called
The CHRISTMAS FROLICK}
Or, HJRLEQUIN's GAMBOLS.
OtHce oi the Insurance Company
OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA
TN csrfequence of an application m u number
1 of .fi'prietors of Stock, made agreeably to this
a A of locorporatiou, a genera! me. tins* of the
Stockholders is particularly requested on Wedncf
day; the 3d January pext,"at 11 o'clock, at 1 the
Office of the Company
SAM, W. FISHER, See'ry.
December 16. dtj.JJ
Hyson and Young Hyson Tea.
A few chest? of excellent quality, For jab, cor
ner of Second aud Pin«tlrects.
, December 16. eotf
Piifon Manufactory,
FOR SJLF,
At thePrifon of the City and County of Pniladd*
phia,
Cm Nails of all Ci!e», from 3dy to s.ody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs/faddle and card Tacks
Oajium and chipped Log v od
Shotmakets and Sadler> Thru,..! x
Alfa—Sawed Marble, fu table for currier'* tablets
tomb and hea tloocs, luartfu. chimney pieces,
plat onus, fl.ibs, facia, window heai«, fills. &c.
All which may l e has) On reasonable terms.
Shoes made and y>'caving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders from a diilante," direAed ta Daniel Tho
mas, agent for the prif n, will be attended to.
Decembtr 26 mtK6m
Seledl Subscription Balls.
NEW ASSEMBLY ROOM,
South Fourth ftreer, between Chefnut and Walnut
fireets.
MR. FRANCIS refpeilfally informs the fu'ifcii
hers to the abov; Balis, that the irll will b*
on Tuesday, the ad of January, 179?
a few names to the Seleil Snb&rip'Jon Balls
will b« admitted, by application to Mr. Francis,o6.
70, north Eighth street
Terms of fubfeription—-each fuhf.riber to ply
Five Dollars, which entitles him to a Goot'e nar.'s
Ticket, and cards ol admiflion for two Ladies, to
each of rh : four Balls—The Bal's ti. be held every
other Tuel'day.
1 he numVe. of fub'crii ers to be Umit-d to fetty«
Sul'lcrlb'-rsj' I ickets will be ready (or delivery
on SMurd; ytite 30th in 3,
Mr. Francis's days of t-achinj r or hiryenng
pupils sre Thnrfd.ys and
in the alttrnoon till 6, kibd from 6 11 $ ior thof?
of aniovcarvar <' H»e. Private tnK.-n either-t
the Aljimbly Ro. m Or at h's House No.
N'oith Eight Street.
N.B. Due notice will be given of Mr. Frarcii'l
fecund PraAifing Bail.
Dec. a 6.
~ L~E i f ~
At Aldermaii Bedfoi d's office, Lombardftreef,
No. 88, about three wetjfs ag a whole pitca
r.f cptloQ, ftippqfcd to be iioien -*any perfmi
1 having 101 l tbt tame, proving prop :r;y and pay*
lug charges may Have >: -j' in.
Dcccn.bcr :6.PROPOSALS
FOR
CARRYING'THE PUBLIC MAILS
on the following Post Roads will be re
ceived at the General Post Office until
the 14th day of February next inclbfive.
PENNSYLVANIA, t<fc.
1 • From Philadelpb;* f>y Wilmington, Newcaf
tic, Cantwcll'g Duck creek, Dover, frcd
evica, Cloughs, Dagfborough, Trap,
. SsaowHorntown and Acconmp comt house to
V.iumpton court house three times a'week.
„ April Ito November 15. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery TueWay, Thuifday and Saturday at a a M,and
urrrive at Northampton vtoxrt J>oufeon Thufday,
Saturday and Monday at pm. Returning. Leave
Northampton court h(.ufe every Friday 1 iMonriay
and Wedutfday,at %a m. an<i arrive Philadel
phia on Monday, Wednesday a.ud Friday by 7 1-2
pm. /
Nov ruber 15 in April t. Leave ev
ery i'uctJ. y, Thuifday and at 6 a m,
and arrive at Northampton court houfc on Friday,
Monday and Wednesday by )p m. Returning—
Leave Northampton court house every Saturday,
Tuesday and 'I hilffday at 6 am, and arrive at
Philadelphia on Wcdnefday, Friday and Monday
by 7 r M, f
VIRGINIA.
2. Frcm Northampton court house to Norfolk
three times a wsek.
Afrit r to Novcmitr 15. Leave Northampton
court houfc every Monday, Wednesday and Fri
day ut 8 pm, j|id arr.ve at Norfolk in 24 h»urs.
Returning-—Leave Norfolk every Wednesday, Fri- 1
day ami Monday a 4 a m, and arrive at Slorthamp
to.i court rtoufe in twenty four hours/ •
AWinkrr i t to April I. Leav# Northampton
court Uoufe cveryTifefday, Thj-fday and Saturday
at 3 a m, and arrive at Norfolk in ij heurs, Re
turning—Leave Norfolk every Monday, Wednes
day and Friday by 4 am, atld afrive at Northamp
ton court house in 24 hours.
PRNNSYLVANI A & MARYLAND.
7. fiwn •'.yiidelphia by Wilmington, N ew *
port,ChriiHana,Middletown,Warwick andGoerge- !
town cross roads toChellcrftownthreetiinesa week.
Mty I to Ncvemier I. Philadelphia every
Suicfay, Tuefd.y Mid Thursday by 9 r m, and ar
rive at GtVUcrtown the next days by 8p m. Re
tuning —Le.ive Cheftertown every Mpnday.Werl
neld.w atfci Friday by 9 P M, and arrive at Phila
delphia the next days f>y 8 r m.
Nivember I u'Afay I. Leav« Philadelphia eVe
ry Monday and Friday by 9 a m, and arrive at
Chefttjttown on Tuifilay aud Saturday by 4 r m.
jteturniirg—l.cwe Cheftertown every Monday and
Friday by 8 am, ani arrive at Philadelphia on
.Tuefiay and Saturday by 4 p m.
MARYLAND.
4. From Cheftertown by Centerville; Eafton,'
Newmarket, Vienna, Salisbury, Snowhill andPrin
eeft Ann t» Salilbury once a week.
Receive the mail at Cheftertown every Wednes
day at 7 am, arrive »t Eafton by 4 p m. Leave
Eafton on Thursday by 6am, arrive at Snowhill
on Friday by I r. m, and at I'rincels Ann by 6 p.
M. Returning—Leave Princess Ann on Saturday by
XO a m, arrive at Eafton the next day or Monday
by 6p m. Leave Eafton on Tuesday by; 2 a m,and
arrive at Cheftertown fame day by 4 r it.
5. From Harford by Bel-Air to the Black horfc
On.' a wed:.
Leave Harford «very Tuesday by 10 a », and
arrive at Black fcorie by 6P m. Returning—l_.cave
liiack horse on Wedntlday by 6 a m, and arrive at
Harford the next TueXday by 9 A m.
PENNSYLVANIA, MARYLAND and VIR
GIMA.
6. Baltimore by Blackhorfe te Yorktown
Pa. once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday by 4 rm, arrive
at Blackhorie on Saturday by ie> *- x, and arrive
at, Yprktown by 8 rm. Returning—L«avc York
town every Thursday by 7 am, and arrive it Bal
timore on Friday noon.
7. From Vorktown by Hanover, Pderffcurg,
Taneyton and fffcdericktown to I.eeftiurj once a
week. '
Leave Yorkjown every Monday at 8 a M,arri»c
at Fredericktown on Tuifdayby jut, arid arrive
atLeefburgon Wedr.efdaj by 2P u. Riturning—
Leave Lcefburg every Friday at coon, ana arrive
at Yotkto-a n by 6 p m on Sunday.
8. From Yorktownby Abbotftown,Getti/burg,
Fairfield, Elii-juethtown, Williarufport, Martinf
burg, \Viacheftei% Stevenfburg and Strafburg to
Woodftock once a tveek.
I.eave Ycrktown evtry Sunday by noon, arrive
at Martinfburg on Tuesday by ix a M.Ttf.eave
Martiuiburg on Tusfday noon and arrive at Wood
ftock on Weduefday by 6 P it. Returning—Leave
Woodftock on Fh-urfday by 6 a m, arrive at Mar
tinlburg on Friday by II a m, and arrive atYork
town 011 Sunday by 11 A m.
sr. From Pittlhurg by Cannonfburg, Waftiing
ton, Weft Liberty and Wheeling to the month of
Filhing creek once a week (contraA for one year
only.)<
Leave Fittlburg every Friday at 9 am, and ar
rive ~.t Fishing creek on Sunday at 9a m Return
ing—Leavc/Fithing creek 011 Wedaefday at 8 a m,
and arrive at Pirtiburgon Friday at 8 a m.
10. From Washington by Brownsville and Union
to once a week.
Leave Union every Friday at 6 a m, and arrivi
at Walhington by 6 pm. Leave Wafliinjton on
Saturday at m, arrive at Morgantown on Sun
day at 6v m. Leave Morgantown on Monday at
8 am, andarrive at Union by 3 p m.
11. From Baltimore by Frederickwwn, CHza
bcthtown, (Jreentaftle and Chaiuberfburg to Sliip
penfburg once a week.
JLeave Baltimore every Friday by 11 a w, arrive
at Fredericktown on Saturday by 10 a m, atEli
zabethtown in the evening, and at Shippenfburg
011 Monday by 7p m. Returniig—Leave Shippenf
burg every Tuesday at 9 a m, arrive at Elizabeth
.lownetß p m, at Fredericktown on Wednesday
noon, aud at Baltimore on Thursday by 5 p nr.
MARYLAND.
11. From Elizabethtown by Hancock and Old
town to Cumberland once a week.
Leav«Cumbetlaii<l-cv«ry Saturday by 6 a M,and
arrive at Eliiabethtown en .Monday by 8 a m.
Returning —Leave Elizabethtown every Monday by
10 a M, anjarrive on Tuesday by
6 pm.
13. From Baltimore tor Annapolis once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8 a m, and
arrive at Annapolis by Jp m. Returning—Leave
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8 a m, and arrive at
Baltimore by 5 pm.
14. From Baltimore by Annapolis, Queen Anns,
Upper Marlborough, Fifcitaway.Porttobacc®, il
lensfrelh, Newport and Chaptico to Leonardtown
once a \veek.
Leave Baltimore every Friday at 10 a m, arrive
at Annapolis at 5 PM. Leave Annapolis on Sa
turday at 6 a m, arrive at Upper. Marlborough
by noon, arrive by 6 p m. & arrive at
_Leonardtown every Monday foranoou by go'clock.
Returning —Leav «.eonardtown every Monday at 3
p at Pifcataway on Tuesday by 6pm
arrive at Upper Marlborough on Wednsiday by
XI am, andarrive at Annapolis by 6 p m. Leave
Annupojh 011 Thnrfday by 7 am, and arrive at
Baltimore by 3 p m.
15. From Annapolis by Lower Marlborough,
Huntington and Calvert court house to Bt. Leon- .
ards'once a week.
Leave Annapolis-every Saturday at 9 a m, and
arrive at St. Leonards ®ti Monday by 3p m • Re- i
turning—rfeve St. Leonards' every Monday at 4 ,
p m, and arrive at Annapolis the next Saturday by
6 am.
16. Fritn Bladenflburg by Upper Marlborough, •
> Nottingham, Lower Marlborough, Acqoifco, B-.n
nsdicl and Charlottehall to Chaptico once a week
Leave Bladenfburg evi-ry Saturday it 9 a m, ar
rive at i/ppjr by 1100:1 and at Lower
, MarlliorougKon Monday by c p ;,t, &at Chaptico
• by 6 F M'. Returning—L.eaveCh'.iptico:veryiVurf
day at 6 a m, ;ve at Biadetrfburg on Sit'ur
, day at 6a m.
' 17. Georgetown by Montgomery court
houfc to Fredericktown once a week.
Leave Georgetown every Frida'y by 6 a m, and
arrive at fredericktown by 6 pm. Returning—
Leave Fredericktown every Thursday by 5 a m,
and arrive at Georgetown by 6 p m.
WIGINIA.
' 18. From Woodftock by Newmarket, Rocking
-1 km court house, Staunton, Lexington andFincaf
f.le to Big Lick once a week.
I.e?.v, Woodftock every Thursday by 6 a m, ar
rive at Staunton on Friday at Ip m. I.eave Staun
■ ton every Friday at i r ,vi, arrive at Big Lic'jkOn
Sunday by-n a m. Returning—Leave Big i.ick
onSuaday by 1 p m, arrive at Staunton cvery,Tuef
dayby It \ m. Leave Sfauntaai by 12 o'clock
)noon) and arrive at on Wednesday by
5 PM- >
19. From Bij Lick by Montgomery court house
j and Wythe court houle to Abingdon once a week.
Leave Big Lick evury "Sunday at I p m, arrive
at co'irt house on Tuesday by 2 p M,
Abingdon on Wednesday by 6 pm. Returning—
Leava Abuigdon every Thursday by 6 a nf, arrive
at Wythe court house on Friday by 2 p m) and ar
r ire at Big Lick on Sunday by 11 a m,
TENNESSEE.
20. From Abingdon, Vir. by Jonelboroujjh
Gxeenville,Moffat's (lore audjefferfon court haule
to once, a week.
Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6 a m, ar
rive at Moffats store on Saturday by 8 a m. Leave
Moffatiby 9 a m, andarrive at Knoxville an Sun
; day by 10 a m. Returning—Lett*e Knoxville eve
ry Sunday by a P m, arrive at Moffats on Monday
: by 3p m. Leavo Moffats on Monday at 4p m,
ani arrive at Abingdon on Wedn*fday by 7 p m.
VIRGINIA.
21. From Wmcheftcr by Romney to Moorfieldt
once a week.
Leave Winchester every Thursday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Moorfield*n Friday by 6 PM. Return
ing—Leave Muorfield every Saturday at 8 a M,a*d
' arrive at Wincbetler on Sunday by 6 P M.
22. Frojn Alexandria by Centerville, Leelburg
and Sheyherdllown to Martinlburg Once a week.
Leave Alexandria every Weduafday at 0 a u,
and arrive at Martinfburg on 'Friday, by 10 a m.
Returning—Leave Martinlburg every Friday by
noon & arrive at Alexasiriaon Monday by 7 a m.
»3 From Frederickfbburg by Port Royal, Lay
tons, Tappahannock, Hrbanna and Gloucester court
house to Yorktown once a week-
Leave Frcdei icVfburg every Wednesday ut 6 a
m, arrive at Tappahannock 01V Thursday by 11
aM. Leave TappMiannock at noon and arrive at
Yorktown on Saturday by iiam. Returning—
Leave Yorktown every Saturday at 1 P M, arrive
•it Tappahannock the next Monday noon and arrive
at FredrricUkiirg On Tuesday by 5 P M.
24. From Vappahatrnock by Richmond court
house, Weftmoreland court hsufe, Kinfale, Farn
hani church and Northumberland court hodfe to
Lancaster court house once a week
Leave Tappahannock every Thursday noon and
arrive at Lancaster court house on Saturday by 11
am. Returning—LeaveLapcafter court house ev
ery Saturday by 1 P M. and. arrive at Tappahan
notk on Monday by 11 a x,
25. From Fredetjcklburg by Culpeper «ourt
hc-je ScOrangec. h. to ChailottefviUeonce a week.
Leave Fredertcklburg every Tuesday at 10 a m,
and arrive at eharlottefville on Thursday by 11 a
m. Returning—Leave Charlottefville oh Saturday
at 8 PM, aud arrive at frederickfburg on Tues
day by 6 a m.
26. Pram Richmond by Goochland court
house Columbia and Charlottefville to Staunton,
once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 1 p M, ar
rive at Charlottefville on Thursday by 11 A M.
Leave Charlottefville by noon and arrive at
Staunton on Friday by 11 AM. Returning—
Leave Staunton om Saturday by 6 A M, arrive at
Charlottefville by 7 p M, and arrive at Rich
mond t4ie next Tuesday by 9 A M.
27. Fr.»m Staunton by Bath court-hcufe and
Sweet Springs to Greenbrier court-hodfe once a
week.
Leave Stiunton ever) Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Gieenbrier court-hsule on Tuesday by
6 * ni. Returning—Leave- Greenbrier court
house every Monday by 9 a h, and arrive at
Staunton on Thursday by 8 p m.
28. From Charlottefvile by Warren, War
minfter, New-Market, Amherft court heufe,
Cabellfburg, and Maddifonto Lynchburg once
a week.
Leave Charlottefville every Thurfdiy at I P
M. and arrive at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6
p m. Returning—Leave Lynahburg every
Tuesday by 6 A M, and arrive at Charlottefville
on Thursday by 19 A m. '*
29. From Richmond by Hanovertown, Ay
lttts and Todds to Tappahannock once a week
er if carried in flages as often as they /hall run.
Leave Richmond every Wedntfday at j A M,
arrive at Todd» at 3 P M, and at Tappahannock
on Thursday at 11 am. Returning—Leave
Tappahannock on Monday 11 I r «, andar
rive at Richmond on Tuesday by j p M.
jo. From Richmond by Hopkins's, Powha
tan court ho«fe, Cumberland court house, Prince
Edward court house and Lynchburg to New-
London, once 1 week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A M,
arri*« at Prince Edwartl on Wednesday at 6 P
m, and arrive at on Friday at 8 A M,
and at New-Lonfin by 10 AM. Returning—
Leave New-London every Friday at 2 P M, ar-.
rive at Lynchburg by 5 p m, arrive at Prince
Edward on Saturday by'7 1 p and arrive at
Richmond on Monday by 4 PM.
31. From New-Londoi»by Liberty to Fincaf
tle once a week.
Leave New London every Friday at 1 p m,
and arrive at Fincaftle on Saturday by 6 p m.
Returning—Leave Fincaftle on Monday at j A
M,and arrive at Kew London on Tuesday noon.
3». From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar
tiuville once in two weeks.
Leave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A
m, and arrive at Martinville on Sunday by 6 p
M. Leave Mirtinville on Monday by 6 A M,
and arrive at Liberty on Tuesday by 6 pm.
33. From Prince Edward court house by
Charlotte court house to Halifax court house
once a week.
Leave Prince F.d ward court houfec veryThurf
daj at 6 A M, and arrive at Halifax court houTe
on Friday at 10 AM. Returning—Leave Hal
ifax court house on Friday by 2 P M, aud ar
rive at Prince Edward court house pn Saturday
by 6 P M.
VIRGINIA aniNORTH-CAROLINA,
34. From Hilitajt court-houfehy Halitax old town,
Carters, MartinVillr, Patrick court-house, Upper Sau-
Germanttiwn and Betliania to Salem once in two
weeks.
Leave Halifax court-house every other Friday at
2, P M, and arrive at Satem the next Monday by 6,
P M. Returning—LeaveSalem every other Tuesday
at 6, A M, and arrive at Halifax court-house oil Fri
day by 10, A M.
35. Fiom Hairis's by Hickes'sford to Halifaxtwice
a week.
'Leave Harris's every Wedrefdayand Saturday by
a, A M., and arrive at Halifax by 6, P M. Return-'
ing—leave Halifax every Thursday and Sanday by 6,
A M, and arrive at Hariis's by 7, P. M.
VIRGINIA.
36. From Smithfield bv Southampton eourt-houfe
0 Hickc&'s fold once a week.
Leave lllck»*sfofs every olher Friday by 2, P M
and arrive at Smithlield oft Saturday by 5, PM,—
Reluming—l.eaveSmthfield ev?ry other Sunday by
5» A M, and arrive at Hicks's tord ort Monday by
1, PM.
37. FromGoldfonsby Tammaiv'sj
Meck.lenta<r<r and L44.rlel.barg courc-hbufes and Ed
munds store to GofaTon's ';ncc a week.
Leave Gold Ton's ever y VVednefday at 10, A M, and
retum the next Saturday by 2, P M, waiting at each
Po(l-OrHce 2 hpurs after delivery of thv rmi .
fttRGIXIA & NOR.T H-C AROL IN A.
384 From Suffolk by Edenton, Plymouth and Wa
shington to Newbern, oner a week. Leave Suffolk
every Monday at noon, arrive at Edenton on Tuef
dav at i/P Mj'.at P.ymouth, on Wednesday by 6,
A M, at Washington by 6, P M, and at Ne'wbernon
Thursday by 5, P M. Returning —Leave Newbern
every Friday by 6, A M, arrive at Washington by
,5» P M. Arrive at Pfymouth on Saturday by 4
P M, at Edcnton on Sunday by 9, A M, and at Suf
folk on Monday by 9, A M.
NORTH C AROLINA,.
39. From Edentonby Hertford, Nixontpn, Eliza
beth city, aim Jouelbujg to Indian-town, ouce a
week.
' every Wednesday by t, P M, and
arrive at Indian-town 011 Thui.fcUy by 6, P M. Re
turni-ng—Eeave Ihdunto wn evary Tuesday by 5, AM,
and arrive at Edenton on Wednesday at 11, A M.
40. From Halifax by Northampton court-house,
Princeton, Murfrenborough, Wintou and Windsor
to Edenton, once a week.
Leave Halifax every Monday at 9, AM, and arriVe
at Edenton on Wednesday by 3, P M, leave Eden
ton on Wednesday by 6, P M, and arrive at Ualwax
on Saiur ay by 11, A_M
41. From Halifax by Scotland, Ffogton, Williamf
ton and Daily's to Plymouth, once a week. Leave
Halifax evefy Monday at i», A M, and arrive at Ply
mouth on Wedoefday by 1.0, A M. Returning—
Leave Plymouth on Wednesday at 2, P M, and ar
rive at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M.
42. From Halifax by Taiboro' and Greenville to
Walhingtononee a week-
Leave Halifax every Monday at 10, A M, and ar
rive at Walhiugton on Wednesday by 10 A M. Re
turning—Leave Washington every Wednesday at 2,
P M, and arrive at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M.
43. From Halifax by Warrenton, Williamfborough,
Oxford, Hilltboreugh, Martiaville, Salen}, Lexing
ton, Salilbury and Statefville to Charlotte and from
Charlotte by Cabarras court-house to Salisbury, and
from thence by the fame route to Halifax, once a
week.
Leave Halifax every Monday at g ( . A M, arrive at
Warrenton by 7, P M, arrive at Hillfborough on
Wednesday at, 4, P M, at Salem on Fiiday by 5,
P M, at Salilbury on Saturday at 4, P M, arid at
ChavJotieon Monday by 6, AM# Returning—leave
Charlotuon Monday at 10, A M, arrive at Salisbury
©ft Tuefday'by io, A M, arrive at Salem „on Wed
nesday at 9, A M, at Hillfborough on Friday by 9,
A M, at Warrenton on Saturday at 7, P M» and at
UalifaY«n Monday at. 6, A M.
44. Trom Hilifborough by Mount Tirzah, Pcifon
cou't-h®ufe, Leafburg, Cafwell court-htu'e and Roc
kingham court-house to Germantown oucc io two
weeks.
Leave Hillfborough every otherThurfday at 6, A M,
and arrive z\ Gcrmantown on Saturday at 4, P. M.
Leave every otker Sunday at 6, A, M,
and arrive at Hillfborough on Tuesday at 4, P M.
45- From Sa*cm by Berhtnia, Huntlville, Roch
ford, Wiikcs, Morganton and Ratherfordtou to Spar
tanburg in S. C. once in two weeks.
Leave Salem t vei y other Saturday at 5 a m, and ar
rive at Sparfacburg on Wednesday at 5p m. Leave
Spartanburg every other Thursday at 7 a m, and ar
rive at Salem the next Monday at 6 p m.
46. Fiom Louifburg by Na(h court-houfc to Tar
borough once a week.
Leavrt Taiborough every Friday by 6 am, and ar
rive at Loui(burg by 6 pm. Returning—Leave Louif
bjjfg every Saturday by 6 a m, and arrive at Tarbo
rough by 6 r m.
47. From Raleigh by Sffttthfield, Waynefborough,
and KingltoQ to Newbern, orjee in two weeks.
Leave llaleigfi every other Tuesday by 8 a m, and
ariive at Newbern the next Friday by 10 a m.
Returning—Leave Newbern every other Friday by 2
p m, an 4 arrive at Raleigh on Monday bv 6 p m.
48. From R*K-ighby to Hillfborough,
aud from Hi'.tfbo tough' by Chapel hill and Chatham
Raleigh, oucc a week. To wait two
hours a( Cctthsnt fcourt-houfe.
Leive Raleigh every Tuesday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at by 6 pm. Returning—Leave
Hillfborough every Wednesday by 8 a m, and arrive
at Raleigh on Thuriday by 10 a m.
49. From Fayetteville by Elizabcthtbwn, Bcllefort
and Springfield to Wilmington, and from Wilming
ton by S. Sare&o and Sampson court
house to Fayetieville, once a week.
Leave Faycttevillc every Tuesday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Wilmington on Thursday at »o a. m. Re
writing —Leave Wilmington every Thursday t 4 a m,
and arrive at EayeUcviile on Sunday by 5 p m.
50. From Fayetteville by Alfordton and Randolph
court-house to Salisbury, and from Salisbury by Mont
gomery court-house, Anfon ccurt-houfe and Rich
mond court-houlc to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Salisbury on Tuesday by 9 am, Leave Sa
lilbury every Tuefdav nooa and arriva at Fayetteville
on Friday by 6 p m
51. From Newbern by Trenton and Richland to
Wilmington once a week.
Leave Newbern every Friday at 10 a m, and arrive
at Wilmington on Sunday by 6p. m. Leave Wil
mington every Tuesday at 10 am, and arrive at New
bern on Thursday by 6 pm. '
SOUTH & NORTH CAROLINA.
52. From Camden by court-houfe, Char
lotte and Lincolnton to Statefville, once in two
weeks. •"
Leave Camden every other Monday at 6 am, ar
rive at StateTville on Thursday by 6 p m Leave Statef
ville every other Friday by.a p m, aad arrive at Cain
t den on Monday by 6p.m,
SOVrtf-CAROLiNA,
53. From Columbia by Winniboroogh, Chester
court-house, Pinckneyville, Spartanburg and
Greenville coutt-houfe to Pickenfville, and
from Pickenfville by Laurens court-house and New
bury court bouse to Columbia, once a week : waiting
one hour at each poA-offke on the route*
Leave Columbia every Monday at 9 a m, arrive at
Spartanburg every Wednesday by 3 p m, arrive at
Pickenfville on Thursday at4P m, arrive at Laurens
court.house on Ftiday at 4 p m, and at Columbia on
Sunday by 6 p m.
54; From Columbia by Orangebuig to Charlcfton,
once a week.
Leave Columbia every Monday at 10 a m, and ar
rive at Ch&rlefton on Thursday at 10 a m. R#urning
—Leave Charlellon every Thursday at * p m, and ar
rive at Columbia on Sunday at noon.
SQUTH-GAROLINA & GEORGIA*
55. From Edgefield court-house by Cambiidge,
Abbeville court-house, Pendleton court-house, Hac
tonsford, Franklin court-houfc, Elberton aud Peters
burg to Walhingfon, and from by Pe
tersburg and Cambridge to Edgefieid court-house,
once a week.
Leave Edgefirld court-house every Friday byß aw,
arrive at Pendleton court-house on Sunday by 9 am
arrive at Franklin couit-houfe by 7 p m, at Petersburg
on Tuesday by 10 a m, and at Wafhingten by 5 p
M. Leave Washington every Wednesday at 6 a m,
at Camb idge on by 10 a m, and at Edge
fieid court-houfc by 7 p m.
From'Augulla by Washington, Grecnfburg and
Lexington to Georgetown, once a week.
Ltavc Auguita every Monday at 3 p m, arriv# at
WaffiUigton on Tuelday by 5 p m, and arrive at
Georgetown-Thursday by 7 r m. Returning—
Leave Georgetbwn every FJiiday at 6 a m, andanivo
at Auguila bv noon on Monday.
57. From bardfcns Corner to Beaufort once a week.
Leave ffeiufort every Thursday at 2 p m, and arrive
at Guldens Coiner by 8 r m. Returning—Leave Gar
dens Corner every Thursday at 5 a m, and arrive at
Beaufort by to a. m.
Note I. Tie P<fl fttafler General may alter the timet
of arrival and departure at any time during the continuance
of the contratiis, be frevioufly f.ipulatitig'an adequate com
pensation f*r any extra exfienfe that may be occajioned there'
by. . . '
Note 1. Half -an hour Jhall It allotted Jor opening
ami cloftng the Mail at all offit.£s tvhen no particular time
" ftnij'zt-
Note 3. For every hour*s delay (unavoidable accidents
exceptedJ in arming after the times prescribed in an y con
trast, the Contractor Jhall Jorjeit one dollar, and if the de
lay continue until the departure of any ■ depending Mail x
ushercby the Mails dcjlined for such depending 'Mail, hfe
a trip, an additional forfeiture of five doUars Jhall be
incurred•
Note 4 heivfpapers as ivell as Letters are to be sent
in the Mails j and if any person making proposals deftres
to carry nevjfpapers other than those conveyed in the mail,
for his own fnulument, he ntufl Jiate in his proposals for
iobat sum h: zuill carry i 4 +*ith that emolument and for
•what sum lollhout that emolument*
Note 5. Should any person making proposals desire an
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpc
cfied, he mull Qate in his proposals the alterations dctired,
rn i the difference they Iviil make in the terms of hij c*n
tratl.
Note 6. Persons making proposals are deftred to Jlate
their flPtces in gross by the year, and not bv the mile.
Those zvbo contract ivill receive their pay' in
the .months of January, April, July ami oSibber t in
drafts on the pofl offices on the route and in bank notes.
Note 7 The contra Sis are to be hi operation on the frft
day of April ncxt } and continue fw, four years, until
the 3 \fi day of March in:lafivt x in the year 180 S.
% JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Pofi-Majier General.
General Post Office, ")
Philadelphia, December 18, 17975 j
* tuth&sti4thF
New Ailembiy Koonj,
South Fourth street, between Chefnut and Walnut
streets.
Mr 9 FRANCIS,
OF THE NEW-THEATRE,
RESPECTFULLY informs his Scholars and the
public in general, that bis Academy for Danc
ing will commence, for the season, on Thursday,
December 13, at the above
ELEGANT ROOM ;
When he hopes to receive the continuance of their
accustomed patronage, which it will be his unre
mitting endeavor to deserve.
The days of teaching for his young pupils are
Thursday* and Saturdays, from 3 o'clock in the
afternoon till 6, and from 6 till 9, for thoft of a
more advanced age.*
As an accommodation to those living in this vi
cinage, Mr Francis intends to inftrudt a small
party of children on Wednesday and Friday after
noons, at his house.
Diftinft from the PraSifing Bails, M»r. Francis
willhavj four private fele& Subscription Balls.
Private teaching, cither at'th£ Academy, or his
house.
Mr. Francis's firft Pra#iGng Ball will be on
Tuesday, 19th Bee. at the New Afiembly Rcom.
Ladies and Gentlemen's tickets to be had, by
applying to Mr. F. as usual.
For further particulars, enquire of Mr. F. No.
70, north Eighth street. Dec. 11—mwftf
Imported in the brig Eliza,
Capt. HASTlE,yrom Bourdcaux ;
Claret in Cases of a very fuperier quality,
White Sauterne Wine in Cases,
-Olive Oil "in bafcets of 12pottles eich,
White and coloured Kid Gloves,
do. do. Silk do.
A few pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy, V
For Sale by
JAMES I ATIMBR, jun.
71, South Wharws.
IVho has also for Sale,
A few qr. Cafics Old Sherry Wine.
Dec. ?. tin 1
- For Sale by the Subscriber,
10 bales CoiVas
40 do. Babus
ri do. Mamoody
do. Chintz
7 do. Tooltety
1 dt>. Goraht
ij do. Moragungeet
3 do. Check Stripes
- I do. Guzzie
i box Diapers t
7 do. Umbrellas
25 pipes fined particular Mad.ira Wine, of
the vintage 179 J.
MORDECAI lewis.
Becember 5. 3»W4W
Thomas Randall,
PS.ESBNTS his refpeifts to his Friends, and the
Public in general, informs them that he has opened
an Office, at his house. No. 88, Spiuce street, fo#«
the purpole of tranfa&ing bufmefs in the line'of
CommilDon and Agency, colleding rents aild ijut
ftanding claims in any partvf the United States.—
He flatters himfelf, that from his long residence in
' this country and a general knowledge of it, his fer
cicss will he found worthy the notice of those who
may pleal* to confide to him the management of
any of their concerns.
N- B. Security given .where required,
nthnio S4 3tawtf
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent rtwelling-houle 20,ooo<iollars,
& cash 30>ooo, are 50,000
I ditto 15,000 & raft 25,009 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & caih 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,000
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
x ditto 5,000 & ca(b 5,000 10,000
j prize of 10,000
2 do. 5,000 each,arej « is,ooo
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
20 do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
20® da. 50 - - 10,000
4co do. 25 - - 10,000
1,000 do. 20 - 34,000
15,000 do. io • 150,000
16,7.39 Prizes.
33,261 Blank*.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
"N. B. To favour those who may take a quan
tity of Ticket3,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but oni ;
And approvednotes, fecurmg payment in either
m«/i«y or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lot'ery wiil afford an elegant fp'ecimen of
theprivate buildings to be in the City ®f
Wafhington—*Two beautiful designs aie already
lele&ed for the entiri fronts on two of the public
fquaresj from thefedrawisgsitispropofed toered
twocentreaud r ourcorßer foonaspof
fibleafter this lottery isfold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner describe Jin the fchemc for the Hotel
Lottery. A «iett deduction of five "per cent, will
be made to defray the neceflary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intituled for ehe National University, to
be ere&ed within the city of Washington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the paymont of the
Brizes, are held by the President and two Diredt
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more tlian half the v amoii.it of the lattery.
SJMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Well & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Gilmaa,'Bofton ; of John Hopkins, Richmond
and of Riciard W.lls, Cooper's Ferry. biwj
Wanted to Charter,.
Britifh vessel, fifteen hundre4
thoufaad five hundred btr*
Peter Blight, *
WHO HAS Ktiß SALP,
Choice R-cii Port Wins in and hoglhea
and old London Particular Madeira, fit ior imme
diate use, in pipes.
December 30 § rw
For Charleston,
J—fi 'THE SJiIP
t sj|hr VENUS,
J W f-y"g*> '!>' wharf of Mcffrs. Pcroth
? vC'yOHE will take Freight en very
o«s*lSs»fer Q low terms, and fail the fir it
opening Apply to, the mailer on board, or to
Jos. Anthony Sff Co.
Detember aS j
For Savannah, in Georgia,
AjSsL The Ship ARAB,
Thomas Donohbe,
Ready to fail—Can accommodate a few
For Surinam and Curracoa,
Gcqrge Washington,
JONH DEVEREIiX
* ™ Mailer. •
For freight, or Fjffage, apply to
STEPHEN KINGSTON,
Mo. 46 Walnut, or 33 Dbck-rtrcct,
Who has a few Boxes of
Bloom and Muscatel Raisins, and
Gin-in Pipes.
December 18. #2t
For Savannah,
(To fail on or before Sunday, the 24th inft. unless
prevented by the ice)
The faft failing Ship '
Swift Packet,
Patrick Gribken, Majter. -
• ~'sg.T TAS excellent accomiuoda
*= - 1 ■■' .* • 1 tions for pailengefs. *
For Freight or paflage, apply to
N. £s* J. Frazi&r,
00.95, south Front fireet..
Who have for Salt, received by the said Jhip,
New RICE, in whole and half tiercy.
December 16 diw
For Am ft er dam,
The Ship
far m e r,
l'rwJfe* J OH ? M'Ccllom, Mailer;
fail in a few days, the
part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coflfee, or pas
sage, apply to the matter on board, at Walnut
ftreet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who i« Landing, out of the £iid Ship, from Bour
deaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter caflct v
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fontiniac,
Sauterne, > Wiiies in cases
Lunille, )
Prunes in boxes
november 24. $
For Londonderry,
THE* BRIGANTINE J
ESviysl}VyVa:" William Whittem, Master.
■^s!c3S!c y ■' A Ilrong good ve(T«l, about two
hundred tons, t>o fail with all convenient speed, a
great part of her cargo engaged—now lying at
Willing and Francis's wharf, i'or freight or pas
sage, apply to tlie captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
Landetibergcrs 'wharf.
Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel of about three hundred tons.
fIOV 18. §
For Sale or Charter,
Gool } HOPE,
Will carry about laco barrels,and
is ready to take in a cargo. For term*
apply to
Pragers Co.
No. 151, South Sscond.ftreet."
Who have for sale—-prime St. Croix Sugar anti
Ram, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf.
For Liverpool,
The copper lottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
Captain Silas
ji A Large proportion of her
f \ cargo being ready tojjo on
board, is expedlcd to Jail on or the
3d of December.
For Freight or PalTage, apply to the Captain oa
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to
PHILIP NICKLIN If Co.
November 12. §
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Chi9holm,
A flew veflel, with excellent
~ — accommo dations for
Sails on the loth of For Freight or
PafTage, apply to ROSS b* SIMSON.
IVho have to dijfyfc of,
A fniall invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a panel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. §
Rundle Leech,
Have juli teceived,' and have for at no. 9, .
Walnut flreet,
Livernool and St, Übes SALT
' bell hotife CO A LS
Queens* WARE in «afes, aflbrted
Bourdeaux BRANDY of an excellent quality
Do. CLARET in cases, do.
thfv HAVE AL9O
For SALE er CHARTER,
TU« SIIIJ
peggy,
lfurthen 225 tons, in excellent condition, and
may be sent to sea with little expence or delay.
LIKEWISE, #
THE BR,G
william,
Burthen 201 tons,
rwemher 16. r
WANTS A PLACE, *
As coachman, a black Mao, who can preduce
the bell recommendations. Enquire of the prin
er. Dec. 16—d^t
+