of the & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Nvmjsms 1360.] TUESDAY EVENING, jAfiUART 17, 1797. [VOLUME tl.
Far Sale,
Two Convenient BRICK HOUSES,
Thre« stories high, 16 feet front, and 40 feet dcp
•tach, and adjoining •, situated on the east fide of Front,
betweea Kace and Vine-streets ; Nos. 161 and 163.
They will be fold on very reasonable terms, either
Separately or cogether. Apply to
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CQ.
January 13 diw
Mas. G RATTAN
&efp«ftfully informs her friends, and the public, in
ge*eral, that 00 Tuesday the iothday of January,
Hie proposes opening, at No. 39, North Sixtli
».iriet, a
Lineti and Muslin Warehouse.
Book Mvflins, from 6/3 to itfil per yard
Jaco.il ct ditto, from 8/8 to 9/8 per yard
strip;id ditto, from 7/10 to 10/10 per yard
Pine Goflaes
Tambmtir'd Book Muslins, from 13/9 to 11/ per yard
India Muslin, from 11/3 to 15/ per yard
Sheet ing Muslin
Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 to 6/ per hdkf.
llook muslin Handkerchiefs from 5/3 to 10/6 per hdkf.
Mufliai color'd andborder'd Handkerchiefs
Dacc 1 Handkerchiefs
Taml lour'd Cravats from iq/B to 11/11
Jock it Handkerchiefs
Cam; iric, from 11ft to 16/3 per yard
Tablei Cloths ' *
Huck abuckTowelling
Worn til's Cotton Hole, from 6/*j to pair
Dirai iy from 5/10 to 6/1 i
Men' 6 Silk Hose
Tarn! lour'd muslin Handkerchiefs from 11/11 to l tfl
Irish linens for Geiitlerr en's Shirts, from 5/5 to 3/7
An id a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
Line >, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
Pock it Handkerchiefs, See. See.
Hi tulhold Linen, &c. &e.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 3 t-1 dollars,
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain shirt, made ai d mark'd, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled :itto 6 dollars.
A . plain (hirt, made and marked, 5 i-z dollars.
/ i full ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
j I plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
i full ruffled ditto j n.
J I plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 1-1 dollars.
. I very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
January 13. S
~~ F O R S A L E,
* MBS f a ft~f al^lH & J c ' ,jnotter ORION;
«CSeventy tons burthen ; fifteen months
1 1- * ; her frame is of the bell of white
oak .: ilic'ii alaithful built vessel, handlomely finifhed off
and 4 well l'ound ia every particular ; Is ready to receive a
car jo on board, and can be put to sea without any ex
pei ice on her hull, fails or rigging : file flows fix hundred
bai Tels; has a handsome cabin and steerage, and a half
dccik which will (low from fjventy-five to eighty barrels;
has been newly caulked, graved and painted. For terms
ap;)lyto BENJAMIN RHODES,
At No. 170, corner of Market at*d FiitTi-ftreets,
Or to the Captain on board laid schooner at Messrs.
W 1 lis and Yardfley's wharf, adjoining Chefnut-ftreet
wh jirf; where there is for faie
Excellent pickled Salmon in barrels,
thobeft of American Mess B<*?f, and Come very excellent
80-fton manufactured Chocolate.
December 26 §
For SligQ and Killibegs,
American Ship ISanct,
«IJSStt' Cothbert Riggs, master.
Will fail with all cdnvenient speed. For
fwiight or passage apply to
William Bell;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well aflV>rted
3 Bales Irish Flannels, and a boxes Linens
35 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo . Russia Matts.
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, 1796, mwftf
JT-* FOR SALE,
IHE sHIp MAR r '
SAMUi:L PARKER, Master,
lundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, (he will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Odtober 31. d
For Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DIANA,
Samuel Pile, Master,'
Burthen 205 47"95 'en* register, built in
Philadelphia in the year 1792* of live oak
Snd red cedar, and was iheathed 13 months ago, fne
lias jufl had a compleat out-fit, and may be sent to fta
at 1 very trifling expence.
For terms apply to'
Philip Nick/in y Co.
frhb have fur fait on Star J fata vessel,
47 eaikj of fine yelfow paim.
9 boxes and I 2 bui. writing slates.
I box ink stands ancVote preflfes.
14 bales of fail canvass.
And on hand,
Imperial
Hyson, and, V TEAS.
Souchong )
40,000 pieces Nankeen* of the firft qaality.
19 tubs Quiekfilver.
* chells Bandaniio handkerchiefs.
A few chsfts Manchester goodswell aflorted in Cor
4ui oys, tHii kfets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &e.
3 boxes black sewing fi'k.
iio crStes Queens ware well aflorfcerf.
10 tors- fheef lead.
Nai'.q :l(Torted, flat and (harp points.
Lond<m Particular, Madeira Wine in pipes
Londrm Market, > ind hog(heads .
Ifew-York Market, J
43 pipes and 10 hogikeids Tenerife wine.
8 tiercas Snake Root.
l«g- Mahogaay.
Nov Tt tthfvftf
Boarding and Lodging
May be had at No. 64, Pean-ftreet, in a creditablc
family
January 9
SALT P E T R E.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for
sale at No. 25, Soutfy Thirvl-ftreet.
November c. !
Elegant Brullels & l'uncey Carpeting ,<
For sale by George Dobfon, No. 25, South Tn:rd_-(lreet.
December 15. rftf
NOTICE.
THE Sales of LANDS of the United States, in the
North-Western Terriiory, heretofore advertised
in the several public papers, will commence this even
ing, at the City Taver* to be continued from day
today, 'till the tenth of February rtext, if not fosner
fold.
January 4 j
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chefnut
£reet, where a corre& Numerical Book is lcept for public
infpe&ion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
changed for prizes diawn in the Washington Lettery, of
which the 54th and 55th days returns are received.
The Bufmefs'ot a Broker carried on as usual.
V A SHARE in the NEW THEATRE to be fold
on reasonable terras.
January 12. ttstf
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different sizes, from 1 % inch cables down
to rope ©f 2 inches, ps different lengths: Imported in
the ship Swift, from Hull, antd entitled to drawback.
Sept. 27. dtf
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marsh
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
four feparaic Patents. For terms ot sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, S®uth S^cond-ftreet
October 31. mwftf
For Sale
By private contraS, a very vahable EJiate, known by
the name »f
CHaTHA My
MOST delightfully situated on the north bank of Rap
pahanock river, opposite th£ town of Fredenckfburg, in
the slate of Virginia, coufifting of eleven or fifteen hun
dred acres, as may best suit the purchaser. There is on
this estate, a large and well built brick house, containing
nine commodious room*, cxclufive ol a spacious hall or en
try, 21 feet f<juarc, two pair of stairs, fuiiable ar.d conven
ient pillages, and exeellcnt dry cellars. It? is placed on a
fine he-lthy eminence, commanding beautiful views in
every dire<ftiun over the tcwiu of i're igfickfburgh a»d
Falmouth, and an extensive cultivated country The
grounds adjoiuing the houie are neatly laid out in pleas
ure und kitchcu gardens intsr-fperfed with a variety of
fcarcc trees, a choice collcOtior: of fiouvrs and Cowering
Ihrubs, aud enriched by various ferts of the following
fruits, viz apples, peats, walnuts, chefnuts, cherries,peach
es, plumbs, nedtarine*, apricots, grapes, figs, rafbtrries,
goofeberricr, strawberries, and currants; the while admi
rably varied by turtedCopes which have been formed by
great labour and expeuc*. Bordering upon thefc in.-
provemcßts,are l'evcral lots, in a high llate of cultivation,
and well set with red clover and orchard gral's, from
which three heavy crops of hay are taken every year. Ad
jacent thereto are two large aud flourifhing orchards ; one
of well chosen peach treas, the other of apple and pear
trees, feleiiedfrom the beit nurseries in the state. Pro
perly detached from the mansion house are extensive
roomy office« of every denomination, viz a Kitchen and
Larder, house-keeper's room and Laundry, with a cellar
underneath for a variety of purpefes, a ftore-1 oufe and
smoke house ail of brick, a dairy and spring hoult of ftope.
iitabUs for thirty hoiTcs, an : coatii houses for four car
riages. Also* large and well planned farm yard, vuth
barn and granary, a cow house, with f«parate fulls for
thirty-fij; grown cattle; apartments for fattening veals,
mutton and lambs; extensive fbeds for sheep, and other
arrang- merits for stock of every defenption, with a large
and convenient receptabie for provender, from which they
can be furnifhed without being exposed to the inclemency
of the weather. An overl'cer's house, blacksmith's shop,
and quarters fufficient to accommodate in the best man
ner more than fifty labourer!.
The arable lands arc f» adva&tageoufly divided asta af
ford an opportunity of malting a large quantity of Indian
torn annually, without bringing the field into similar cul
ture oltucr than once in four years; consequently the
lands may be improved by keeping up the inclufurcs during
the intermediate years, or may be beneficially fallowed for
wheat and other grain at the option of the proprietor.
Un the prcmifes there is also a merchant mill with one
pair of belt French burr itoues, and one pair of Cologne ;
furnifhed with modern machinery, and now leafed f»r the
Unexpired term ol four years, at 1501 per annum, and all
; grain for the use of the farm, hopper free, which is near
ly tool. more, the mill and miller's house are built of
free stone, within a very small distance of navigation, near
to which are two or more valuable lifheries, and a well
accustomed ferry uver the Rappahannock to the town of
Frederickfburg. J he land contains inexhaustible quarries
ol free stone near to the river, is plentifully supplied with
remarkable fine water and poffefles a due proportion of
meadow, which by having the command of water may
be eotifiderably increased. The roads are good, and the
neighbourhood genteel and fsciable. Infacft, exclufiveof
an improveable and well condic-oncd farm, the value and
emolument inseparably counedlcd witn a iniv', fwries,
fiflicries and quarries eligibly situated ; the profits arising
irom an ice-house iflforior to none in the state, and a gar
den of four acres so abundantly stocked with vegetable*
of all forts as to be fully equal to the demand in market,
there might be detailed many other advantages, apper
taining to the fertility of these lands, which the fubferiber
conceives it unneceflary to mention, being fully convinced
that when examined, it will be found to be a complete,
pleasant and healthy rcfidence, poffefiing beauties and
conveniences fuffieieiit to attraA the attention of any per
foil dufirous of becoming a purchaser
The motive which induces the fubferiber to offer for
; sale an estate so Angularly beautiful and advarttagcous, is
; a desire to become an inhabitant of Alexandria, where he
can with mote iafe attend to his interests in the neigh
; bonrhood ofthatcity
The purchaser may be accommodated with a few flavcs
in families, either for plantation or donteftic use. A part
of the purchafc money will be required and the balance
made easy, the debt being properly secured.
WILLIAM FU'ZHUGH.
Chatham, C Vir g-) Dec. 19, 1756. nth—2aw4m.
A CARD.
If Monfteur G. H. So/tle,
Who left Bordeaux the 2®th June last, and arrived
it Boftoa ibout the middle of August, in the schooner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is requelled to call on
Joseph Anthony & Co. No. j, Cliefnut-flreet, who
will give him some information of importance.
December 24, 1796. §
Cheap French China.
THE subscribers finding it impoflible to fuppty their
(lord with any 1 more China from France, the prices
being too immoderate in tke maiiufaftories, give no
tice that they will fell at. prime colt the remaining
Hock on hand, confiding of
Dessert Sett*,
Tea-Table Setts
Separate Cups and Saucers
Groupe-s and Figures
Alabaster Vases '
Looking Glasses, in gilt frames*
Besides India Japan'd Toilet Desks, Chairs, Tabhss
nad Quadrille Boxes. PASQUIER & Co.
N«. 91, South Second-ftreat.
December jti. tts
Imported from London & Liverpool,
EARTHEN WARE, in crates and hoglheids, well
assorted
Wine Bottles in hampers
Windovf Glass of all sizes
'Two safes of stationary
One ch'ft »f yellow Jesuits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnotta
A small consignment of Rose Blankets, Flannels,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains, &c.
Paints of various colors. l ,
Bafketfalt in hogsheads.
jilfo vn hand,
Madeira wine, very eld, in pipes, hogfecads and
quarter caflcs
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
Anchors of different sizes
A few trunks of ladies French ftioes assorted
Silk nankeen, &c.
Likewise an affertmefit of Dut *K goods, confuting of
Ofnabergs, ticklenbergs,bed-ticks, stripes, checks.
Morlaix linen, platillas, l ivens duck, Britannias, &o
And for sale by the package only by
Thomas & John Ketland.
Walnut-street Wharf.
Nav. Ij. eotf
Particular Teneriffe Wiire.
50 Quarter-calks Particular Teneriffe WINE,
Of a fuperlor quality,
For Sale by
A. Mar pie Sff Ifracl W. Morris,
No. 60, Dock-street.
January 12 tts6
Philadelphia and Lancaster 'I'urnpike
Company,
January 6, 1797.
At a meeting of the Prefidetit and Managers, a di
vidend of five dollars per Chare, was declared for the
last half year, which will be paid to the Stockholr\frs,
or their representatives any time after the aift ef this
month.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer.
Jan- 6. ia'w4w.
Offict of the Infaranct Company of North-simeriea,
Januai'y yth, 175/7.
The Dividend declared by the Direilors, for the last
fixmonths, is two dollars,"for each share of stock in
this company, which will be paid to the Stockholders
or their attornies duly authorised, at any time after
the 19th inft. By order of the Bf'afd,
tawtigth F.BENEZKIi HAZARD, Sec'ry.
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots,' tsfc. &c. .
This day landing from the ihip Eagle, captain Fofdidc,
from London,
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Second-streets,
A mojl capital and txtenfive Ajfortment of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c. See.
which are,
Five kinds Mparagus Three kinds Creflei
Four Berecolc Twelve Onion
Twenty-five Beans Thirteen Radifti
Six Beers Fifteen Turnip
Elcve* Brocoli Fifteen Peas
Twertty-{l* Cabbage Six Savoy
Six Carrwt Four Parsnip
Three Cauliflower Twenty-ttree Melon
i Five Celery Twenty-one Lettuce
Ten Cucumber
Common and lemon Thyrtie
Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Marygcld Pot Mar jorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Seei Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerne
Red and white Clover Timothy, Btc. See.
With a curious collection the most esteemed
FL* WER-SEEDS aod ROOTS,
Being the most extensive eter imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Seedsman in Londen, and
are warranted frefh and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec; 17. * tf
In order to comply with co tit rafts, I tvili fell, for
approved bonds, on 3 equal annual paymentsp
A Square of LOTS*
At the upper end of Fredefickfburg, beginning op
posite to the lower corner of Do«£lor VVeUford's, on
Caroline flrci't, and runfting up to the crols street
leading to Fitzhugh's ferry, and from thence back to
Sophia-street. This square I have laid off into 24'lotsj
27 and an half feet front, and 122 back, 12 on Caro
linc-ftrect, and 12 on Sophia-street. Nine of those
on Caroline-street I have leafed on an annual ground
rent of 8 and 1© pounds, to the amount of 74 pounds,
and the ricant lots a purchaser could enhance thi value
of by building small hitifes, which will as readily
procure tenants as pots or goards will Martins in the
ipring, and yiel-a a greater profit in proportion to
their cost than large buildings. Thoft who incline
to purchase may know the terms by applying to
HENRY FITZHUGH.
BelkAir, Dec. 8, 1796. 7thJ,d4w
WANTED,.
A MECHANIC, to erect Spinning and Weaving
Machines by water, such at are used at ray manufac
tory—Apply to JAMES DAVENPORT,
No. 401, North Front-ftreeh
! N. B. None need apply but a complete mechanic,
and a maa of liability.
Globe Mill, December 29, 1796. $
FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-tloufe,
No. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial f Hyson Skio.
Hyson, V Frelh Teas. < Souchong.,
Young Hyson, J C.Bcftiea
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
H rGH-STHE£T,
Has received by the late arrivals,
A WtU Selected Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, en the very
low eft terms ;
Amohgjl which are
Some elegant 4?4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns
Ditto Fmrniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Mttflint
IJitto in Sold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
tjmbrellas of the firft quality, assorted
lriih Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets afforted—&c. <Sic.
October 16. d
Public Notice,
IS HEREBY GIVEN, that I have applied to the
.judges of the Supreme Court of this state, to supply the
defect in my Title to a lot of ground, situate on the Weft,
Gde of Fo'urth-ftreet, containing In breadth 10 feet, and
in length j6 feet, bounded Northward and Wcftward, by
ground «f the/übferiber, Southward by ground of Edward
Shippen, and Eastward by Fourth-street, octafioned by
the loss of a dead from Timothy Harrington, John Lewi*
and James Walton, by their attorney Robert Mollyne'ux,
—All porfoas concerned, are required to appear before
two of the justices of the said court, at the house of
• Thomas M'Kcan, esq. the Chief J ailice of the state, on
the 50th inft. at 10 o'clock in the forenoon, to make-their
answer to the bill of the fubferiber, filed in the office of
Edward Burd, esq. Prothonotary of the said court.
WILLIAM SHIPPEN, jun.
Philadelphia, January 6th, 1797- dt3oth
Bank of Pennfylvank,
"January 4> 1757«
At a meeting of the Direflors this.day, a dividend of
sixteen dollars on each lhare was declared for the iafi
6 months, -which will he paid to the Stockholders af
ter the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cashier.
Jan. 3. dtf.
, . h...,., * 1— —J*
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & 2d proofs
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipei
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old' Hock, in cnes bf 40 dozen each
Class Tumbler*, in pints and half-pint*
S r indovt> Glass, in boxes, of Uifforeht lit**
azlenuts", in fackj
Whiting
Copperas f . ...
WhireLead T ,nl,hd,
It Spanish Brown J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
Tanuary 4 , , . . ... j
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 9T,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Primfc Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring a rut Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or tingle one
Dry Codfilh, from one to fifty kentals
Fine and coarse Salt
Nova-Scotia and Fretich Plaster of Paris, in the fton«
and ground, for manure and ftucco-wotk
December 1. §tt
THE SUBSCRIBER
WISHES to afeertain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade Si Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer,
who quitted Ireland i«i 1783, or 1784, arid came into
this Country, ('tis fuppafed to Philadelphia) about
four years since, be living or dead. As this intelli
gence is of the highest importance, it will be thankful
ly by GEO. DAVIS,
No. 313, High-street
December 3!. w&f im
Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOBSON,
No. 45, S6uth Third-street,
Has just reeelved, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdlct, Via Lon
don, an assortment of
Scarlet
Drab ( Cloaks trimmed with lor and
Purple and ( ermine.
Pearl J
December 15. $ »
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was bought for Tin Thoufaad
Dollars.
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet.
He eats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water ; he has drank some days forty bottles of porter,
drawing the corks with his trunk.
He is perfectly inoffensive; travels loose, at the
rate of five miles an hour, and it the groatcft euriofity
ever brought to this Continent.
He is to be seen 'till the 15th of January, in
Market-street between Third and Fourth-streets, aO
a quarter of a dollar, that every Me may <*e him—
after which time the former price oT half a dollar will
be resumed.
He will leave Philadelphia as faon as the weather
will permit.
Dscember ]t 4.New Theatre.
On WEDNESDAY EVENING, January li,
Will be presented,
A COMEDY, called
Every one has his Fault.
Lord Norland, Mr. Warren
Sir Robert Ramble, Mr. Wignell
Mr. Solus, Mr. Morris
Mr. Harmony, Mr. Bates
Captain Irwm, {ifttime) Mr. Cooper
Mr. Placid, Mr. Moreton
Hammond, Mr. Warrell, jun.
Porter, Mr. Warrcll
Edward, Miss L'EJtrange
Lady E lea nor Trw : .n,ift time, Mrs. Merry
Mrs. Placid, (firft time) Mrs. Ollntixcn
Miss Spinster, Mrs. L l Estrange
Miss Wofyirn, Mrs. Morris
To which will be added
A Comic Opera, in two a<3s (as performed at CcveSt-
Garden Theatre upwards of 150 nights), called
The Lock and Key.
Brummagem, Mr. Francis
Cheerly, Mr. Darlei, jun.
Captain Vain, Mr. Fox
.Ralph, Mr. Harwood
Florella, Mrs. Wttmll
Fanny, Mrs. Oldmixon
Selina, Mrs. Harvey
v Dally Miss Milbaurne
The public are refpefrfully informed, (hat af
ter this evening the atove Opera will neceflarily be
laid aside for a conliderable time.
f?" On Friday a celebrated Comedy in tfcree atfls,
(not performed this season) called
The MOUNTAINEERS—with Entertainments.
Bo*, One Dollar 'wonif-five cents. Pit one Dollar,
And Gallery, half a dollar.
Tickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's Book-store
No. so High-Areet, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
Places for the Boxes to Tie taken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from 10 till 2 o'clock, lad frem
>0 till 4 on the days of performance.
Ladfes and Gentlemen are requefled to fend their
ferrants to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and
to order them, as soon as the company are fsated, to
withdraw, as they cannot on any account be permit
ted to remain.
FIFAT RESPUBLICA
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
Mr. F E N N E L L
.Refpedlfully informs the Public, that
THIS EVENING, Tuesday. Jan. 17, at 7 o'clock,
Will be delivered,
(tirst fart)
PREFATORY OBSERVATIONS,
On Eloquence,
Including feleiSions from Dr. Blair.
(second part)
CRITIC At OBSERVATIONS ON MILTON.
Defcript-on of the fall of the Rebel Angels, Milttn.
Satan's Speech, do.
Beljiebub's Speech, do.
Satan's Reply, do.
(third part.)
Ode on St. Cecilia's Day, Pope.
Ode on the Passions, Collins.
0- On THURSDAY,
( FIRST FART)
Selections from the Vicar of'Wakefield, Goldsmith.
(stCOKB PART)
Edwin and Emma, Mallet.
Lavinia, Thomson.
(third Part)
The Hermit, Parnell,
On SATURDAY,
On (he Means of Improvement in Eloquence, with
fele<ftio»s from the mod admired pieces of oratory.
Tickets tohe had of Mr. Pcralfon, jun. at the Library ;
atmr. M'Elwee's looking-gtofs-ftore, Ijjo. 70, S. Fourth
itreet ; and at Mr. Carey's, Bookseller, Market-flreet—
Half a dollar each. *
Mrs. Gratta
Refpe&fully informs the Ladies and Gentlemen of the
City, that the second _
LADIES' CONCERT
Will be THIS EVENING, Tuesday, January 17,
at Mr. Oellers's Hotel,
Aer I.
ttrand Sinfonie, Haydn.
Holy Lord, Mrs. Grattan, Handel.
Concerto Violin, Mr. Gillingham
Trio and Chorus, Siege of Belgrade, Storace.
Act 11.
Concerto m Bb. Mrs. Grattan, DnfTek.
Ah non fai, Mrs.Grattan, Sarti.
Quartett, Pleyel.
•Grand Chorus Pirate, Storace
*4-* The Concert to begin at half past fix ; and at
halt patt eight, the music will attend for the Ball.
Mrs. Grattan brgs leave to inform the Ladies and
Gentlemen, that the fubfeription-book is at herboufe
No 39, North Sixth-street, for the reception of those
names wlio wilh to honor her with their commands.—
A fubfisription for .eight nights 16 dollars, including a
Gentleman and Lady's ticket, botl} tisnsferrable—
Hals-subscriptions 8 dollars, including one ticket.—
Single ticket i dollars.
Mrs. Gratian takes the liberty of requeuing tfie
fubferibers to fend for their tickets any day after
Thurfilay, the 15th of December, at No. 37, North
Sixth-street.
£jT Singl» tickets to be had the day of the Concert
only, at the Bar of Mr. Oellers's Hotel.
WM. HAT DON,
Drawing-Master, from London,
Where he has studied several years under one of
the most eminent masters in that science, attends
young Ladie3 and Gentlemen at their refpeflivehomes.
His term * e 6'dollars per month for attendance three
times per week. Likewise all kinds of ornamental
' Painting, Flowers, Fruit, &c. taught on the above
terms. A line direAed to W. H. left with the Editor
of this Gazette, will be immediately attended to.
January t]. eoivr
——^11 HI >I|IHIf iqWBBBWB-
To the Senate and House of Reprefrntativss of
the commonwealth of Pcnnfylvania, in General
AfTembly met.
The memorial of the president and managers of the
Schuylkill and Sufquehannah canal navigation,
and the Delaware and Schuylkill canal—
[Concluded from yesterday's Gazette.]
Your meraorialifts, therefore, finding tteir pres
sures from the nature of the cafe, rather increased
than diminished since their last application to your
honorable body, beg leave' to renew their prayer.
First, That the legislature may intercft the slate
in a convenient number of (hares in the said canals,
at the par value (according to the example of sun
dry of the fifler dates) placing the commonwealth
on the fame footing as the original (lock-holdere, in
refpr& to future emolument and dividends.
Second, That a convenient futn be advanced on
the credit of the stock and tolls of the canals by
way of loan* from the (late, whereby the works
may be continued i* operation, and the proceeds
ef the lottery in fame degree anticipated, with a
profpeft of terminating the work and compleating
both canals within the time limited by law, or that
the aid of the leg'flature may be granted in any
other more effedlual and better way, which, in
their wisdom, they may devise.
But in contemplating the aid expected from the
legiflatuie, and confidcring that, in the arrange
ment of the (late finances for the proportionable be
nefit of both canals, the sum to be appropriated
may not be conveniently issued from the treasury in
toto, nor in one year ; your memorialists, on ma
ture deliberation, are of opinion, that the firft pro
ductive aid (hould be applied to the Delawjre and
Schuylkill canal, for the following reasons
1 ft, B'caufe the said canal, with a fufficient
number of workmen and adequate fundi, will be
soonest put in operation and compleated.
idly, Because the Schuylkill and Sufquehaunah
canal, before the other is compleated, cannot be
brought into full operation, for ttanfporting pro
duce to the great mart of the city ; but when the
other ii compleated, it will yield an immediate toll
of great value, by means of the produce and heavy
materials for building, with which it will supply
the city and its vicinity: and especially by the
rich supply of pure and wholesome water, 'which
it is intended to distribute to every houle in our
metropolis, as well for femily use, as for the great
purpose of preventing or subduing the ravages of
fire —that dreadful foe to lite and. property, when
not under our command.
On this fubje&, your mrmorialifts beg leave to
enlarge, in two diftinift views.
First, With se(pe& to pure and wholesome wa
ter in great towns, and cities, a writer in a late
Boston paper, speaking of the great aqneduft now
coßllrufting in that metropolis to supply the houses
and (hipping, juflly ob.ferves «« That aquedudi wa
" ter from livers and pure springs, saves half the
" expenct in soap and half the labour in washing
" linen : and the ease with which it is wa(hed
" may make another saving in the wear of the
" linen in 'washing nearly equal :o the above. But
" a more, interesting* confederation and important
•« benefit of pure water is it 6 tendency to prefervc
" health, as water enters into all our food and
•' drink. Our philosophers agree health de
" pends most eflentially in the purity of this ele
" ment. It is observed also that all water grows
" worse in cities by the constant accumulation of
" matter whiph- finks into the earth { so that all
" well-water iu old cities becomes extremely un
" wholesome and increases the bills of mortality ;
" and therefore to have water pure and plenty in'
" cities, by ev«ry way incrcafing th* means of
" eleanlinefs, as well as by rendering the system
" of nutrition wholtfome, must be of the highest
" consequence to prevent putrid End pejlilential
" fevers and other fatal difcafes." The fame writer
mentions also the additioual fccurity from fire,
which is ta be derived from plenty of water duly
distributed through great cities; and concludes
with a just pride, that •' Bojlon will be the firji
" large city in the United States, thus accommo
" dated."
Who is there among us, that can call to h's
remembrance, the number of valuable citizens,
swept from us by the pestilential fever of 1793—
when the heavens were as, iron bound over our
heads, without a drop ef rain for many weeks,
and when, under Providence, had our canal system
been in operation, the fever might have been pre
vented, or its rage soon fubdned ? Or who is there,
that reads the late accounts of the dreadful fires at
New-York, Baltimore, Savannah, andothet places,
with the failure of their well and pump water, or
its inadequacy to subdue the conflagrations > Who
il there, we fsy, that considers such dreadful cala
mities, and would set down to count the cost of
preventi»g them if within our power; when the
loss of property, byj one finglc conflagration, may
sometimes exceed the whole cost of an artificial
supply of water? As to tfie loss of valuable citizens
by pejlilential diseases, all cost of prevention vanishes
on the comparison ; not to mention that when canals
and aqueduAs of this kind are on. e duly dfenftruaed
and finifhed for great cities, they continue for the
benefit of our children, and childrens children, to
the latest generations. In this view then, when
the legislature by a liberal aid, (hall have ellablDhed
a confidence in the work, and allured the public
mind that this canal will fpcedily be compleatcd,
your memorialifls cannot doubt but that the citi
zens of Philadelphia, so highly interefled in ifs
fuceefs, with their usual liberality and public spirit,
by subscribing for new (hares, or by a generous
loan, will supply every remaining deficiency in the
fuads. And die corapleating of one canal will, by
the example of its utility, insure the completion of
the other; and even add to the means, by convert
ing the surplus emolument (beyond what the law
allows to the ftockholdcrs) to the us» of the other
canal, if uectffary, or to other fitnilar improve
ments.
All which is refpeftfully submitted.
Signed by order and on behalf of the
joint boards, N
ROBERT MORRIS, President.
December 24, 1796.
CONTINUATION OF
Late Foreign Intelligence.
From the London Gazette, November 5.
Extract of a letter from captain Martin, of his
majesty's ship Santa Margaretta, to vice-admiral
Kingfmill, dated at sea, the 24-th Odtebei,
*79 6 -
I have the honor to inform you, that his majes
ty's ship under my command has this day captured
a very fait failing (hip privateer, callcd the Le
Buonaparte, of 16 guns and 137 men. She has
been tels days from Brest, and taken three viefTels,
viz. ship Clarence, Afhington, from Jamaica to
London, fe»t to Brest—Neptune brig, f rom Dub
lin to St. Michael's, funk—Ann brig, of Poole,
Naples, buriit.
Extract of another letter from captain Martin, of
the Santa Margaretta, to vice admiral Kingfmill,
dated the 37th October, 1796.
On the 25th instant, in the morning, we dis
covered two Ihips, that immediately made towards
us and approached nearly within hail, before they
ohferved the Santa Margaretta to t>e a frigate.
They endeavoured to render the retreat of the one
or the other secure, by Handing on different tacks,
and I followed the largest, with little profpeft of
taking the other ; but Mr. Birchali, the firlt lieu
tenant, with a degree of zeal and intrepidity tiiat
does him the highclt honor, voluntarily offered to
attack her in a boat: At this time our (hot had
reduced her fail, so as to enable the boat te get
alongside, and 1 had the fatisf»ftion to fee her
taken psffeffion of in a most and officer, like
manner. The (hip we followed (truck her colours,
after having received a few (hot, and proves to be
Le Venguer, of 18 £uns and t 10 men, twelve
dsys from Brest, and had only captmed the (hip
Potomac, from Poole, bound to Newfoundland,
with proviflons and merchandise, retaken by the
boat commanded by lieutenant Birchali.
SPANISH WAR.
From the London Gazette, November 12.
At the Court of St. James's, on the 9th of No
vember, 1796, present th? king's most excel
lent majesty in council.
Whereas his wajefty has received information
that divers uajuft seizures have been made in the
ports oi Spain of the (hips and goods of his ma
jesty's fubje&s, and that acts of hostility and un-j
provoked aggressions hare been committed by the
'{hips of his catholic majesty, on (hips and vefleis of
his majesty and his fuhje&s : His majesty there
tore, being deteimined to take' fucb measures as are
necefiary foj vindicating the hocor of the crown,
and for procuring reparation and fatisfaflion for his
injured fubjefts, is plcafcd, by and with the advice
ot his ptivy council, to order and it is hereby «r
---dertd that general reprisals be granted against the
goods, and fubjeft of the king of Spain, so
that as well his majetty's fleets and (hips, a* also
all uther (hips and vefleis that (hall b« comraiffion
ed by letters of marque or general reprisals, or
otherwise, bjr his majesty's commiffionera for exe
cuting the office of lord l.igh admiral of Great-
Biiiain, (hall and may fei?? all fliips, vefleis, and
goods belonging to the king of Spain, or hi» fub
jefts, or others inhabiting within the kingdom of
Spain, and bring the fame to judgement in any of
the courts of admiralty within his majesty's domi
nions ; and to that end, his majesty's advocate ge
neral with the advocate of the admiralty, are forth
with to prepare the draught of a commission, and
to present the fame to his majesty at this board, au
thorifinjr the eommiffiouers for executing the of
fice »f lord high admiral, or any person or persons
by them empowered and appointed, to ifiue forth
and grant letters of miiqu« .jjnd reprisals, to any
of his majesty's fubjc&s, or others whom the fsid
commiflioners (hall deem fitly qualified thit be
half, for the apprehending, seizing, and taking
the Ihips, vefleis, and p-ids belonging to Spaii"
and the vafl'als and fubjefis of t?ie king of Spain,
01 any inhabiting within his countries, territories or
dominions ; and that such powers and clauses be
inserted in the said commission as have been ufoal,
and are according to former precedents.—And his
majesty's said advocate general, with the advocate
of the admiralty, are also forthwith to prepare a
draught of a commission, and present ihe fame to
his majefly at this hoard, authoring the said eom
miffioners for executing the office of lord high ad
miral to will and require the high court of admi
talty of Great-Britain, and the lieutenant and judge
of the said court, his surrogate or surrogates as al-
several coutts of admiralty within his majef
ty's dominions, to take cognizance of, and judici
ally proceed upon, all and all manner of captures,
feizuies, priee ; and reprisals of ail (hips and goods
that are, or (hall betaken, and to hear and deter
mine the fame j a ad, according to the course of
admiralty and the laws of nation*, to adjudge and
condemn all such (hips, vefleis, and goods as (hall
Mong to Spain, or the vafl'als and fubjefts of the
king of Spain, or to any others inhabiting within
any of his countries, territories and dominions ; and
that such powers aud clauses be inserted in the said
commission as have been tifual and according to for
mcr precedents ; and they are likewise to prepare
and lay before his majesty at this board, a draught
of such inflru&ions as may be proper to be sent to
the courts of admiralty in his mjjefty's foreign go
vernments and plantations, fortheir guidance here,
in ; as also another draught of inftruftions for such
(hips as ftisll be aommiffioned for the purposes
aforementioned.
Chatham P. Liverpool,
S)orfet. Macartney.
Portland. Falmouth.
Wejlmottland. Stopford.
Spencer. fy, f>„ L
CAR! HAGENA, October 30.
Tie squadron under Langara has made a very
clumsy debut.,
The Ships Neptune and St. Jofcph had cut off
two vcffels of the English divilion, and might have
engaged them ; infttad of which, however they did
not tire a gun, altho' within half cannon shot; they
relumed to the squadron t* jrelate the number of
vuflcla had leen, vAlch (.very hV'y knew at
we'll as they did. This cowardice begetting a Sus
picion of tr 'ifon, al) the journals of the squadron
were infpcfted by the admiral.
Oathe 13th 0&. the Mahonnaife, one of the
fineft frigates iu Europe, failed out of lhi» port to
carry coa(t pilots to the fleet. She was met at cape
Gate by an Engliflr frigate, who, after an engage
ment of two hours and a quarter took and carried
her into Gibraltar. On that day we dittinaiy
heard the cannonade, which laded from 9 o'clock
A. M. till half pad eleven ; and what is extraor
dinary, there were in the road 6 frigates and a 74.
gun ship, who did not give themselves the trouble
to leok what was the matter.
LUGANO, Oflot.er 29.
The army of Alvioiy, about 36,000 strong
has penetrated thro Frivol, and cariied its advan
ced guard to Travifo, whvre on the 23d of Odto
ber the whole army was expe&ed. General Da
vidovich with an army almod as considerable, pe
netrated thro' Tyrol; and on the 18th or 2oih
of October it mull have reached the lake of Gar
da. if the garrif«n of Mantua make a sortie while
the two atmifs attack it* front, Buonaparte, wbofe
troops occupy the environs of Cadfenuovo, will
have an excellent opportunity for displaying thole
brilliant talents which have" diltingnifhed his milita
ry carter.
COLOGNE, November I.
Our letters from thg Upper Rhine state that the
lafl battle between the archduke and Moreau was
extremely bloody and decifivo. We are afftircd
that eight thoufaud were left on the field of battle,
and that the eroding of the Rhine by the French
wa% the event of this a<Sion.
That which took place oh the 27th ult. in the
Hundfruck was not consequential as to the lots of
men on the part of the impcrialilts ; but the (.rods
which the French reoovered on this occasion are of
extreme importance.
COBLENTZ, Nov. 2.
We continue to enjoy the. mod perfect tranc'JtiiT
lity. Nevertheless general Kleber h»3 put our city
in a state of ficge, by a resolution, dated 7th 1 Ku
.rsaire, o&ober2B, confiding of eleven ariicleti
MANHEIM, November 2,
On the Upper Rhine the. imperial army,ndvs De
ed on the 27th as far as Huninguen, upon whiih
the French quitted thei* biidije badiuiis there; so'
that the French at present only occupy Kehl, • t>n
the right bank i f the Rhine, for the taking «>f
which the Auttrians are now making the great Ift
preparations. The lines round Kehl are entirely
completed, all mcafures for beginning a siege a.Ve
taken, and the heavy artillery from Manheim am r
ed there yederday. The bombardment is expefl rd
to commence almost immediately. The brie' j>e
near Philiplbarg has been destroyed by the impt 11-
alids.
It is said that the FrencLarmy of the Samhre
and Mcufe, which is now aflembled on the Hun* li
ruck in great force, is intended to join the light
wing of the army of the Rhine and the Mofellc.
VIENNA, November a.
The troops which have marched from Tyrol a id
Frioul, under general Alvinzy, extended along t'ke
rivers Piava and Tagliamtnta, beyond Travifo and
Avian®. The French 11 iH maintain their pofitioi»»
near Citadella, be'ow Bafiano. We learn this
moment, that the Audrians have advanced so fir
as Sedo, in Biefcia. All grangers who have nei
ther commercial business, nor permiflion to day,
are ordered to quit Triede within tight days. ](t
is said that the Freneh have Attempted a storm upoa
Mantua, in which they were repulsed with great
lots.
ITALY, October 2J.
The fcqueltration put by the French, on the
hooks, money and goods of the different tradesmen
at LegUorn, was noticed some time ago* This
meafuie was preceded by an event which gave rrfe
to some disagreeable (cenes. The people repaired,
in a croud, to a miraculous crucifix placed in the
church of our lady. This alarmed the French
commander, the mare becaufc a falfe report hai
been fprcad that the populace were armed with
long knives, and that they meant to rife. In coiir
sequence of this report, on the 22d of September,
2SOO French surrounded the chvrch in which the
people bad aflembled. French put roles paraded
the dreets, forbidding any person appearing at the
windows, uncfer pain of being shot. The French
soon entered the church, atid fcized the redior, hi»
curates, and the crucifix, all of whom were con
veyed to thi citadel. The grand duke's troops
had received orders from the French commandant
not to interfere in the business.
M. Vilette the grand duke's governor of Leg
horn, the 1 ufeaa general, Strafoldo, were arretted
the fame day. They are dill rn prison. Ever
since this unfortuuate affair, in which a score of
persons loft their lives, the guns of the citadel have
been pointed against the town, and JieTufcan gar
rifo« have been confined in the barracks.
1 he grand duke has been greatly afiifted at thi»
event ; nnd we are allured that he has cauffd the
itrongell reprefectations to be made as well tq the
c. ire Aery as to the French g *■ ralson the fubje£t.
PARIS, November 13.
On the z6th ultimo, two fail of the line, and
two Spanidi frigates, arrived at Toulon. The re
mainder ®f *he Spanilh fleet is cruizing off the
coad of Toulon.
The Executive Din&ory has received difpatclres
from the General in Chief liuonaparte, they ure dated
trom the headqua-ters at Verona on the Bth Brumaire.
A letter from Toulon annovinces ; that the Spanifn
fleet i» cruizing off that eoaft. It ennfifts of twenty-fix
fail of the line, of which eight are three ; three
of 80 guns ; and relt of 74 ; betides 53 frigates, a
corvette, and a brig.
Don Joseph Cordova commands the Erst divilion ;
Gonde Morales-de-les Prios commands the second;
and Don Juan Joachim the third.
, Accounts from the Upper RhiHe, as late asfhe3®th
of Ca. state, that since Gen. Moreau has completely
repaffed the Rhine Prince Charles has advanced to
wards Kehl, and dill further.Hls>) cad-quarters the 30th were at OfFendUrg, and
he had rent Tome heavy artillery from Manheim to
baiter fort Kehl. y
The rorps of Hotze who had advanced to Germer
(heim and the environs, is to fall back and occupy the
lines of Mundenhcim, Frefenheim, 2nd Oggerftieim.
It appears to be the intention of the Archduke to at
tack the remain ng positions of the French beyond the
Rhine, before he attempts to pass that famous barrier.
Thus Neuwied and Duffeldorf, Kehl, and the bridge
at Huningen, mult fix the place at which he will eftab
li(h his winter quarters.
It also appears to be his intention to keep at bay the
army of the Sambre and Maufe on the Lahn, during
the attack upon Kehl.
Numerous batteries are ennftrufling on the Lahn ;
those at Leydefdorff are provided with numerous ajrtil
lery. All the Auftnan magazines are there ; and Gen.
Kray has 20,000 men under his command who are en
camped from Vallendar to Erlich.
The Spaniffc squadron is raiftrefs of the Mediterrane
an ; but, notwithstanding, leven Euglift ships pasTed
uncier the eyes of our Admiral and quktly entered Gib
raltar bay.
' BONN, November 2.
We learn from Weiffenthurn, under the, 3.lft ult.
that General Championet repaired the preceeding eve
ning to the island facing Neuwied, 4nd celebrated there
a fete on account of the viilory obtained by the French
troops in the Hundfruck.
LONDON, November if.
In yeftei day's paper we stated upon food autho
rity, tbat the troops stationed in the harbour of
Brest had been sent into th« inteiior of the country;
and by a letter from Dover brought over in an A
merican vefiel, we learn that the troops which had
been collected at Dunkirk, and the other towns
on that line of the coast, have been ordered to march
to join the army of gen. Bournonville. From these
coirefponding movements, it seems evide'nt that,
if the Diredtory ever did entertain the frantic de
sign of an invasion of England, they have pru
dently abandoned the enterprise.
November 17.
lj.aH Saturday certain printed forms, which had
beeh transmitted by the duke of Richmond to the
captains of the yeomanry cavalry, were distributed
to a number of farmers reliding near the SulTex
coast. These forms contain columns for the pnr
pofe of entering the names of'landiioldeis ; number
of miles dillant from the sea, on a medium from
their several farms ; numher of miles distant from
those farms, on a medium to the place fixed on for
driving flock ; number of horses.cows, oxen, young
cattle, sheep, deet, and pigs ; quantity of wheat,
barjey, oats, pease, lye, buckwheat, potatoes, flax,
and hay ; number of feivants that can be mounted
®n horseback to aflift in driving cattle ; number of
men on foot that can be furnifhed with pick axes
and fhoveU j number of waggons and carts ; num
b«r of men above 70 yeais of age ; men between
21 and 70; number of women, and girls and boys
under 12 years ef age ; number of corn water mills,
and com wind mills; what bridges; and an ac
coOnt of ftuek, See. in each pari/h.
Philadelphia,
TUESDAY EVENING, JANUARY 17, 1797.
\
*,* Th« piece Cgned C. will lppeir to-morrow.
Peter Baynton, Esq. is chosen Treifurer of this
Stite, vice Chritiian Febiger, Esq. dcceafed.
A letter from Baltimore to -a gentleman in this
city dated 15th in ft : contains the following infor
mation, viz. \
" A letter from Norfolk mentions that the Spa
niards have captured and sent into Cuba thirty A
merican vefiels, which have been condemned with
their cargoes."
$5" The Subfcribtrs to the City Dancing AlTembly
are requested to meet, 011 particular business, at
O'Ellers's Hotel, This I ver.ing at 6 o'clock.
Extract of a letter from Mdnmouth County, New
Jersey,.
"I have been considering how to keep infurreftion
iacev out of Congress, &c. and at the fame time accord
with the mild lpirit of our laws. Whoever has a knowl
edge of antient history knows that the bane of Repub
lies has been discord ; and he that docs not know it
will do well to read lytachiavel's history of Florence—
He will there find a picture that may be of use to him.
But to my plan:—lf any couhty in any stale in the
union (hall oppose orobftrufl a law of Congress so that
in couid not be carried into effect and it became neces
sary to have recourfe'to other parts of the fatd state to
coerce, such county (bould for 10' years, be deprived of
the right to fend members to Congress, or to the fla'te
Legislature ; —-3nd if one or more counties were to join
in such opposition, ip that the state could not maintain
authority ovtr its members—then such state (hould be
deprived'of its right'for 10 years,—Had such a law
been in force a few years past, it seems probable we
ftiould not have been under the necessity of fending, at
a great expense, the militia of this state to steady our
tottering neighbours—and If every foreigner was to en
joy all the right* of a citizen,, only by a residence of 20
years, our government would be more refpe<£table.
Jf the turbulent of all Europe are to find an asylum a
tnongll us, they ought at leift to be deprived of the
power of doing mifchiet.'
Men brought up under an arbitrary government al
ways feel oppcfigd to it —so that it becomes an habit
which they cannot change ivta when tkey live in a
free one."
COMMUNICATIONS.
A correspondent wishes fonse ef the patriotic
citizens as Philadelphia who gave the entertain
ment to eommodore Barney, on Friday lafl, to in
form, whether " Republican liberty" ii promoted
by taking American (hips, contrary to treaty.
A patiiot used to fignify a lover of his country : I
Of tubal country is Mr. Barney the lover ? If of I
America, his native country, he has chosen a very
odd way of evincing it: If of France, these pa
triotic citizens have a ftrangefcayof (hewing their '
patriohfm. It would be an impudent thing in real '
Fternh citizens to caress Barney in America. 1
— N
A correspondent was very glad to hear Mr. Gal- t
luin fay in the Federal Houfeaf Representatives, ]
in the debate yefteriay, that he entertained no ap c
prel.enfioiis that thf* country w«uld be involved in <
® war. Information from such a quarter is irect
ous and doubtlcfs ma,.y be relied on. The fame t>e
leman -wa3 in favor of reducing the military ai.d
e naval eftab!i(hmerits.
It a wa was to be apprehended with any European
-ropean power, the patriotism of this gentleman
e woule doubtless lead him to wish for an augmenta
• tion of both
t
EXPATRIATION.
. Much has been said within a few yeatg for and
; againfl the right to expatriate—lf to reason from
the experience we have had of the Tories during
; our revolution it would be acknowledged now as it
was then, that those that remained, were worse
• than those that became our'open enemies; from
hence it would appear that no great evil (or at ieaft
. the smaller) wou | d result to the United States were
I ' ,b " t 3 r R lvcn h la™ to any citizen who may have
• so little love of country or endearment to his mo
ther society as to expatriate l.imfelf from it—Such
men can never be considered as valuable citizens
in any (enfe, and the sooner their country is rid of
them the better—But to this freedom to expatri
ate, let there be a condition—for in all countries
there is or ought to be laws to punish all who injure j
it either internally or externally—Then let a law
be made granting liberty to any citizcn to expatri
ate himfelf—but to preserve the public fafety, let
it be provided as a condition that if he does so
withotit the expiefs permission of the executive,
lawfully authorizod —he is to be considered as ba
nished and outlawed, and that he (hall be forever
barred from an asylum or any of the benefits of ei
tizenfliip in any manner or form, within the Unit
ed States thereafter—And let it also be provided
when a citizen withes to reside in foreign countries
as a merchant—or for education—or to travel or
to improve himfelf in naval or land ta&ics he
(hall make application to the executive for perraif
fion, fpecifying ihe country, his object, and length
of time he intends, or wishes to be absent from the
Ljni.ed States—And (hould he on proof injure his
country, or the citizens of the United Stales in his
abfenee, be fubjeft to the fame penalty as though
he had had no permillion—lf such was the law of
the land, it iwould be easy to nfcertaui how many
real c itizens we had in foreign countries and what
their ohjedt, and whether they were enti led to ci
tizenfhip again, from the rule of com/uft they had
purfued—for it is conjectured by many whether
there arc not some " exclusive patriots" in France,
who call themselves Americans, that hsve forfeited
their citizenftip on the principle of the well-being
of fociety—for when a courttry protests a man as
n citizen, it ought to puuifh him if an enemy
There are few laws, it is believed, that would mak'e
a man reflect more seriously than one jfthat would
(hut the dnor of his country forever against him,
if violated—and there if; none but the moll aban
doned (if such was the law daring him in the
face) that would turnrovers—Every wife govern
ment fixes the rights of her citizens to a poißt
for it can never be wife to fuffer them to be friends
and enemieras alternate as the seasons.
NO ROVER.
the states of Greece united witb Carthage
to oppose the dcfpotifm of Roman ambition, they
might have prefeived the balance of power and
the jvide range of domination that marked the
great republic had been circumscribed by the real
independence of other dates The Romans van
quifhed fiitt one and then another state—always
holding out the lure of advant .ges :o be obtained
from their friend/hip and allinnce—until they ob
tained a footing in the allied dominion —when too
late the weakei ally invariably found that nnder
those specious names of friend/hip, alliance, and
protection, they had admitted majlers— not friends.
The French have a&ed, and attempted to a&, a
fitnilar part.
By this day's Mail.
■ 4 .—
CHARLESTON, December 19.
Saturday arrived the (loop Venus, Brown, Nor
folk, 17 days; schooner [iidullry, Rofs, Savan
nah, 1; (hip Winyaw, Richards, London, 61.
Yesterday arrived the (hip Hopewell, Hutchifon,
London, 64 ; schooner Nancy, Tut tie, St. Marks,
34 ; hr, K George William, Young, Rhode- lfland,
24; schooner Cerina, Brown, Rhode-Island, 25 ;
(hip Argo, Smith, Bofcon, 25 ; brig Juno, Atkine!
Boston, 25 ; brig Fnendfhip, Childs, New-Port,
24; brig Columbia, Cloutman, Marblehead, 30 ;
brig Mentor, Karflon, Kingston, 39 ; schooner
Polly, Barry, North Carolina, 10 ; (loop Lydia,
Haviland, Rhode-Iflar.d, 25 ; (loop Robert, Camp
bell, Savannah, 3.
The (hip Pallas, Hunter, had arrived at Glaf
g«w, and the brig Pointer, at Giavefend,
before the Winyaw left Cowes.
Extract from the log-book of the Hoop Lydia,
captain Haviland.
December 1, in lat. 34, long. 78, fpofee the
(loop Sally, Webb, from Port-an Prince, bound to
Philadelphia, 10 days out, all well. December 9,
in lat. 31, 42, long. 76, spoke the (hip Rainbow,'
Ormond, from Liverpool, bound to Chaileflon,
out 11 weeks, had njet with hard gales of wind,
which had torn his fails very much ; he was then
repairing them, and expected to have them in rea
diness to bend that day. Capt. Ormond was ont of
all kinds of meat ; supplied him. with 25 lbs. pork,
200 lbs. of cod-fifh, and 2 barrels of potatoes. He
had plenty of bread, butter and prater.
On Saturday afternoon the (hip Winyaw, Capt.
; Richards, arrived in this port from London, lafl
from Cowes, which (he left on the 17th «f Ofte
ber. As the (hip palled Fort Johnson, captain
Kalteifen, the commandant, fainted the major with
1J guns; a detachment of the battalion of anil
lery paid him the fame compliment from Fort Me- .
chanic; the (hips in harbor displayed their colors,
and as the (hip passed the wharves (he was cheered
with loud huzzas ; at five or'clock in the evening j
the major landed from the cutlom-houfe barge, at
Blake's wharf, where be was met by a large con
course of citizens, who with repeated (horns wel
comed back to bis Dative land theit highly refpeft- ,
i ed and beloved fel}ow-c{ti2tn.
Piffrngtrs in the Winyaw, from London :
<j vfdje.r Pinclcney, roaster Thomas Pinckney, mailer
C Pirickney, miss Pinclcney, miss Harriot
i Pmckney, miss Snrah Ru;le<}gc, miss Dcas, mrs.
n Pfronneaii, mrg. Kei'h, doctor Spence,
i- PaffeHuTis in the brig Friendship :—Rev. do&or
Gates and lady, major James Hamilton, and Robert
Rowand, Esq.
d NORFOLK, January 7.
n . Yesterday arrived here a gentleman who tame paf
r fengerin the b.ig Jans, Captain LiWbridge, of Phili
■J (a cartel employed to carry French prisoner*
from this continent) who has obligingly furnilhtd us
c with the fallowing information :
1 the 9th of Deeember the Cnmmiffianets at Cape
I Francois ifliied their orders, directing the velfels of war
e belonging to the French Republic, a» well at to :ndivi
. duals, to capture and carry in the French ports, a 1
American veiTels whatever, hound to or froai British
ports, ar engaged in any commerce contrary to the or
ders of the Executive DireiSory. In conference of
> wnich, about 65 fail of American veflels in the part of
f St. Domingo were condemned (vedlls and cargoes)
. and all Americans were detained in port, under pre-
I teneeofan embargo. Every American vessel which
. arrived bound to French ports, Wave had their cargoes
put in requisition : and if any oppofitioa was made as
to giving Bp their property, the captains lave been
lmprifoned, and their cargoes taken from then and de
posited in the government stores. The made of eon
-1 dem nation is unprecedented,—the captured are nat
, permitted to pot in any claim for their property, ar
adduce any proof in their behalf whatever. They
have also refufed to furnilh copies of their condemna
tions.
It was supposed that ( upwards of 10® privatters were
fitting out when our informant left there on the 11th
ef December.
The above gentleman left the brig Jane off the
Capes, on hsr pafTage to Philadelphia.
Capt. Lillibridge, on the 10th of Dec. in lit. 37, 4.
' on S- 73> spoke the brig —, Timothy Ruflel rauf
ter, of Philadelphia, out 90 days from St. Übes, in
great distress, very leaky, and totally destitute of pra
vifion# j one of his hands had died at the pump. Capt.
Lillibridge endeavoured to aflift him, but the gale in
which he spoke him was so violent, that every attempt
was abortive, and he parted company before
it was over.^
NEW-YORK, January 16,
Capt. RufiVl, ot the fchoaner Commerce, ar
rived on Satuiday from Genoa, saw the Spanish
fleet in the Mediterranean (and was spoke to
by them) confiding of 33 fail of the line. En
quiries were made of him refpe&ing the British
fleet. The above force nult have been effe&ed
by a junction with the French fleet from Toulon }
and, unless a Gmilar junltioa it effe&ed between
admirals Jervis and Mann, is confidciably superior
to the Beitilh force in those seas.
Arrived at this Port. Days.
Ship Good Friends, Smith, Hambiirff, 84
Brig Isabella and Ann, Hampton, Aux-Cays, 5©
Columbia, Bottons, St. Thomas, 28
Sch'r Success, Wilson, Port de Prtix, 30
Ariel, Wicks, Havnnnab, 16
Commerce, Ruflel, Genoa, 88
Dispatch, Weft, St. Kitts, j8
Ship Alexander Hamilton, of Philadelphia,
Kirkbridc, 55 days from Livetpaol.
January 7, spoke a fchoener from New-York,
out 8 days, bound to Cape-de Verd.
January 8, spoke the brig Prudence, of New-
York, bound to New-York, out 60 days, ftiort
of provisions ; loft three men overboard, lat 36,
3 1 *
Ship A»n and Mary, of Philadelphia, Edmund
fon, failed in company with the Alexander Hamil
ton. December 6, spoke the Hebe, of Baltimore,
out 17 days from Baltimore, bound to Amtlerdam,
who two days before took captain Heard and his
crew from on board the (hip Sovereign, of London,
from Quebec, bound to London, the ship having
sprung a leak.
Captain Kirkhride took 10 of the hands from the
Hebe, and brought them to New-York.
Talleyraud Perigord, eidevant bishop of Autun,
who was banished from France by Robespierre, and
some tirfie fmce expelled England under the provi
sions of the alien bill, is said tab« chosen by the
Diieftoryto manage on their part, the negociation
with lord Malmeftiury.
• London, Nov. 6.
Yesterday evening, Wiffen, the meflenger, was
difpatehed from the secretary of dates' officc,
charged with inftruttions to lord Malmefcury, en
the fubjeft of the demand made by the Executive
Directory, that h« should produce the powers un
der which he opened any negotiation for peace; on
the part of the emperor.
We are afTnred 1 by high authority, that our go
vernment, in this instance, Influenced alike by ho
nor and policy, will not accede to any proportion
for a separate peace. They have furnifhed lord
Malmefbuty with certain documents, which mani
feft the difpofltion of his imperial majesty.to n lift
ing and equitable peace, and which authorised the
overtures made in his behalf. Should, hawever, '
direct credentials from the emperor to lord Malmef
bury be deemed requisite, his lordship is dire&ed
to requite time to obtain the neecfTary forms.
MADRID, October 24.
Certain changes have taken place in our ministry
which leave us room to expect more. Don Afanxa,
minifler at war, has been appointed viceroy of Mex
ico } and Don Alvarei Mingrella replaces him as
war minifler.
Don Varelia, minifler of marine, is to replace
DtJs Gardoqui, appointed ambassador to the court
of Turin, in the department of finances.
Don Juan de Langara, who commands our fleet (
at sea, is to be minifler of the marine. The above (
fleet eon lifts of 26 (hips of war, and was fee n off J
Barcelona on the sth inft.
PARIS, November ifi. 1
The news of the .death of Collot d'Herbois, t
and his colleague Billaud Varennes i» falfe. n ,
The news of lord Malme/bury's having proposed
an armistice to the direfloiy, appears to be prema- ")
ture.
The Dutch convention has empowered citizens
Levefton and Padeur, members of the convention,
now on million here, to afSll, in conjunction with u
citizen Mayer, the Dutch plenipotentiary, at the
co itferchcet for pace, which art afeout to be open*
- ed in this city. *,
r The speedy armament of the Brett fquadrqn oc
t cupies ail hands. Several of the twenty-One (hipl
of the line, which make at present our whale naval
force in that quarter, have already their whole cam*
r plcment of mo. In the above number are com
prised five (hips lately arrived from Rochefort and
1 Orient. It appears, that that fleet is to have pro
visions for fix months, whith proves that they are
Heflined for fame ejCpcditiort in a remote quarter,
and not fur the improbable and ridiculous plan of
, nakinjf a descent upon England. It will be com
manded by admiral Villaret Joyeufe. We feel a
pleasure in pointing out to the public, the admiral
whom the dircdory honor to deservedly with their
confidenee.
Villaret JoyeuTe commanded last war the Ilrij
frigate, and distinguished himfclf in a fight with
an English frigate, in which be had the advantages
He made all the naval campaigns under admiral
Suffrein, who was highly fond as hifls. He is nat
only a good seaman, but alio a goad scholar, wha
can quote almoll every v.rfe of Horart or Virgil.
He wasalcftcd a deputy of India in the national
convention, but he refufed that honor.
•These encomiums will perhaps be considered ai
exaggerated* by those wha remember the defeat* of
the i zth and 13th Prairial, jd year, or the fata!
eruife as 1794 ; but those battle* were given t J
gainst the opinion <if Villaret, and at the peremp
tory lnftigation of an ignorant and prefumptuoua
Ptoconful. Villaret had feut prated after protcft «-
gainst that fatal expedition to which we owe the
ruin of our Marine.
,Letter* from Brett, of the 29th of o£t. state,
that the expedition in that harbar had tanguifhe4
for a long while, till it wa« accelerated by the arri
val of gen. Hoche and a cemmifiiener. Fifteen
ships of the line are Shortly cxpe&ed to fail ; but
they want many articles, the crews are incomplete*
and foldiers_are to replace thefeamen, whose num
ber is hut small.
1 hat expedition is f«;n with inquietude at Brest
all the sailors disapprove of it, especially Villaret
Joyeufe, the admiral, who dreads the fame difattert
which made us fuflain thelofsaf 6 erf of our fi
ned (hips of the line, during the famous winter
eruife of 1794, the season is too fat advanced, and.
the ships in the word date.
If we believe the rumors circulating here, the
Bred fleet failed en the Jd inft.
Lord Malmrtbury and j Englishmen were yef
tcrday at the Concert of the Opera. They did
not seem much entertained with our fingers or our
musicians, and fettingaflde their national pride, they
were in the right. There were no David's, no
Marchciis, whom English guineas bring frona Italy
npon the London Theatre*. The ballet Ryche
fecmed however to please iheria.
Lord Malmesbury, and three or four pcrfon* of
his (uite are said to have been present at the fitting
of the Council of Five Hundred, on the 2d inft.
when the resolution refpefting the law of the 3d
Brumaire was taken.
- 1 ' ■ 11 hi., rn . 1 . ■ .
The Lyceum, fbl* free Debate,
sit the Univtrfnl Chwch,
In Lombard, between Fourth and Fifth-ftrtetSi
On WEDNESDAY EVENING, the iSth January,
Will be Debated,
" Is the traffic in, and Holding of Slaves, consist*
ent with humanity, morality, liberty, or policy;—
or is it difrraceful ta that nation that fanltioßs or
tolerate* it."
The Chair will be taken at 7 o'clock.
Admittance for Ladies and Gentlemen, X-Sth of t
dollar.
LOST,
On the Road between this city and Baltimore,
A black leather POCKET-BOOK,
Containing sundry papers valuable only to the owner*
also between three and four hundred dollar*. Whoever
has found the fame, and will leave it at the office of
the editor Na. 119 Chefnut street, with the contents,
particularly the papers, fliall be handfomeiy rewarded,
and no qucftiontalked.
January 17.
Want# a place, as Wet Nurse,
A woman with a good bread of milk, who can be
Wtll recommended, far further particulars enquire ot
the Printer. Jan. if.
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. gi 3 , HIGH-STREET.
GEORGE DAVIS announces to hit profeffional friende*
and tbe (ieoikmen of tke Law, generally, through the
Union, that his late importation of BOOKS is (low arrange
ed, and ready for Sale, from a ftngle volunie to an entire li
brary, without any advanoe upon hia former exceeding low
prices, whUh tor tcveral years p*k have in so dUlmguifhed a
manner recommended them'to notice. ,
Printed Catalogues combining the most extensive collect
tion cf the latest English and Irilh Editions ever imported
into this country, are published, and will be delivered graii#
on application.
Orders addressed to 6. D. in writing from any diftaaatf
ftiall be punctually attended to.
A number <of IRUNKS for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient LOFT, near Market Street Wharf.
ov.B. tu&fgtt*
BALL.
Netb Cotillions, Scotch Reels t and Contre Dances.
Messrs. Francis and Byrne beg leave to inform thtk 1
fchelars, friends, and the public in general, that their
firft Sail for this season will be on Tuesday, the 14, at
O'Ellers's assembly-room ; at which a variety of new
Cotillions, Contre Dances, and the most celebrated
Scoteh Reels, will be introduced.
Messrs. Francis and Byrne propose to give gratuitous
attendance at their school room, for the inftrndtion of
those Ladies and Gentlemen in their new dances, who
mean to honer tbe ball raom with their presence,— at
tendance for this pnrpofe after their school hours, on
Tueldays, and Thursdays.
Tickets to be had as MeflW."France* and Byrne No.
70, North Eight street, or at O'Ellers's Hotel. La*
dies are requested to apply ta their female friends,
Icholars of Messrs. F. & B. or a* above, at their refi
denct. ' * —
N. B. The new dances will not infringe upon the
usual routine as the evening.
January 11,1797. aawti*PROPOSALS,
For carrying the Mails of the United
States, j
On the following Pojl Roads, will be reciived until
thefiljl day of March next inclajive : j n
1. From Charleston, S. C. by Jackfonboro' an 4 Coofa-
hatchy, to Savannah, twice a week. Receive the MaU
at Charleston every Tuelday and Friday by 6, V. M. and
deliver it at Savannah the *Ms Friday and Monday, by » [he
A.M. Jtiturning,',Tccc.h-c the ,Mail at Savannah ev ry j
Saturday, by 6, P. M. and Weinettay by 6, A. M. and jn| .
deliver it at Charleston the n«t Tuesday and Friday
bynoon. vci
Pi o' -[J.s for this route 'will bt retiived Jay tbipyt-majter st
Savannah.
2. Fi'omCoofahatcliy to Beahfort 01.ee a week—
Receive the naaii at Coofahatchy every Thursday by 6,
p. m. aud deliver it at Beaufort by noon on Friday. R<- —
turning, leave Beaufort every Friday »y 3,- p. m. and .arrive
at. Coofahatchy on Saturday by 8, A. ia.
Proposals for carrying the mail on this route will be r«r
by the poft-maiter at Beaufort. gj :
Note 1. Tke Polt-mafter General may alter th« times
for the arrival aad departure of the mails at any rime du- aJ .
ring the continuance of the co*»tra&«, he ptevioufly llipu
la-tiaj»; an adequate compensation for apy extra expence
tiiat may be occasioned thereWy. ~
Note 2. For every delay (unavoidable a«cidents
excepted) ia arriving after the times prescribed by con
trad, the contraAor lhall forfeit one dollar, and if tnc
delay continue until the departmre of any depeiding 'mail
an additional forfeiture of fiye dollars lhall We iicurred.
Note 3. Shomld any person makin , proposals deiire aa
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe
cified, he must state the alteration desired the price '
he will carry the mail for with and without such alte
ration.
Note 4. The contraAs are to be in operation on the «
firft day of April next and to continue until the 30th of »t
September in the year 1800. n
JOSEPH HABERSHAM, / -
Pcjl Majler General. d
General Post Office, 7 -
Philadelphia, Jan. 13,1796. j" -s
]an. 16. d6w - a
AOVhR i ioiiMENT.
A 6 a Bill is now depending before the Legiflaiure of
Pennsylvania relative to unfatisfied warrants, a meet
iog of the holders of such claims is requested to be g
h«fd at Mr. Dunwoody's on Tuesday evening the 17th ;
inft. at fix o'clock, iu order that a memorial on the
occasion may be prepared and laid before the Houfc.
January 16 a t
A Pointer found.
Any person having loft a small POINTER PUP
PY about a fortnight since, may have hira again by
proving property a«d paying charges. Apply to the
Printer.
January ro *
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE AND PRICE,
No. 79, Market-street, Philadelphia, ,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, a large assortment «f WARRANTED !
WATCHES, consisting of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with fecouds, of superior
workman(hip and elegance ; also capp'd and jewel'd 1
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jewell'd, capp d,
ftconds, day of the mottth, and plain Silver Watches ;
eight day 3c chamber Clocks; elegant French Clocks (
with marble frames ; eight day and tT.irty homr, brass
works, &c.
Decembet 22, 1796. dtm
City of Waihington.
SCHEME of the LOTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent > »0,000 dollars, & ? 000
dwelling-house, 5 ca lh 30>0°°> are 5 '
1 ditto 15,000 & calk 15,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & ca(h 10,000 10,000
x ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & caih 5,000 10,000
1 cafli prize of 10,000
1 do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
Ip do. 1,000 - - 10,000
10 do. 509 - - 10,000
00 do. 100. - . 10,000
400 do. 50 10,000
400 do. 45 - 10,000
1,000 do. io - 10,000
15,000 do. 10 * 150,000
16,739 Prizes.
33,161 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those whp may take a quantity of
Tickets, the priae of 40,000 dollars will be the Last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved'notes, securing payment in either monay
er prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
any number not l'efc than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpecimsn of the pri
vate buildings to be erefled in the City of Wafliington—
Two bcauuiul designs are already fele&ed for the entire
fronts on two of the public l'quares; from these prawings
it ispropofed to et . rt two centre and four corner buildings,
as soon as poflible after this lottery, is.fold, and to convey
t£em, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner dcfcribed in the fchemc fur the Hotel Lottery.
A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will be made to defray
the necessary expenses of printing, &Cw<and the surplus
will be madea part of the fund intended for the National
University, to be eredled within the city of Wafliington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
old off.— l'he money prizes will be payable in thirty days
ifterit is fun filed; and aliy prizei for which fortunate
r.B.uba'i> aie not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is closed, are to be considered as given towards
the f»nd for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole bufmefs in a year from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real securities given for the payment of the Prises,
are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
inount ol the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commissioners a flitted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk
fecondtime on behalf ef the public; a fuflicient num
j;r of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that rfie
r iends to a National University and the other federal ob
joAs may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the diflerent parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are aiiured that the
drawing will fpeedily-commence, and that the care and
caution unavoidably ncceffary to insure a fafc disposal of
th« tickets, haa rendered the inorr fufpeufion indilpetilablv!.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Ti«kets may be had at the Bank of Colombia ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilman, B&£on :
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and ol Richard W«lls
Cooper's Ferry. *»
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUCi ALL will open his school on Mon- ,
day the 3111 mil. at tin o'clock in the morning, at his L>
Elegant hew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets.
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o clock —
on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
young gentlomen from 6 to 9 o'clcck on the evenings o
the fame days. p u
In addition to a number of new cotillioas, he means to
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. The firft pra&ifißg ball to be on Tuesday e
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every
Tuesday, dnring the season. n
For terms, &c, enquire at his house, Nu.l34> Market- { ;
street.
OA. 17 ■ tth ' D
Bank of North-America, iw
'January 2, 1797- . a "
At a miJting of the Dire&ors this day, a Dividend ot p
Six per Cent- was declared lor the la!l halt year, winch *'
will be paid to the Stockholders or their representatives, _
at any timr after the 10th inilant.
By srder of the Board.
dtl6t|i JOHN NIXON. President.
CAUTION. ~~ •»
' CO
WHEREAS vei*y hrge and heavy debts are justly
due and owing from messrs. Blair M'Clenachan and j..
Patrick Metre, of the city of Philadelphia, merchants, a
trading under the firm of Blair M'Clenachan and P. p
Moore, and from Blair M'Clenachan in his separate
capacity ;to which, by the laws of the land, the
toint to wtill as separate property of the fa:d Gentle
men, is. and ought to be, liable. And whereas
it is clearly and Satisfactorily ascertained, that mr.
Blair M'Clenachan, of the said firm, has conveyed
away to mr. Job:i H. Hujlon, his foil-in law, to his
daughter, miss M'Clenachan, and to his son, George
M'Clenachan, Several large and valuable real estates, n
as well ai oonfiderable personal property, in the city *
andtounly of Philadelphia, in the county of Lancas
ter, in the county of New-Castle on Delaware, and
. elsewhere!, with a view, as it is apprehended, to de
feat the Oreditors in the recovery of their just debts.
This is, therefore, to forewarn all persons whamfo- 1
ever, aga'mft the purchase from the laid grantees, or J
| either of th?m, of any portion of the said real or per-
: fonal property, as the moil vigorous measures will £
without d«lay be take* to render the fame liable to 1
the just demands of the Creditors. d
l'y order of the Creditors. t
Thomas Fitxjimons, ") r
Philip Nicklin, I a
Isaac Vharton, J- Committee.
William M'Murtrie, \ c
Samuel W. Fijher, -» >
Philadelphia, December 17th, 1796. 10th.$
TO THE PUBLIC. :
THE caution introduced into the public prints,
warning all perfonfi against purchasing from the ]
™ grantees of Blair M'Clenachan, any portion of the _
large, real and personal estates he conveyed away to |
ir his fon-iii law and to hi* children was the result of ,
d a deliberation had upen the fubjeft by a general and ;
I, numerous meeting of the creditors as well of Blair
• M'Clenachan and P. Moore as of Blair M'Clena- j
chan individually. It was no more than an execu
tion of that trull confidod in the fubferibers by
those creditors : a step which it would have been a
— breach of <4uty and honor in them to have omitted.
The very statement of iWe'faft therefore must dif
pcl the imputation that it was either " precipitate
or vi»diftive." it originated in a deiire to secure
the property of the debtor as a fund for the pay
ment of his just debts. It was fandioned by the
advice ot council as a measure necejfary to the fafety
of the creditors. If the adverufement ha* been
injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
to hii own unjuftitiable conduA, not to the lub
fciibers <vho have merely puWilhed the truth is
terms as mild as the fact would admit, and who
mean to investigate in a high court of justice the
validity of those purchases of which Mr. M'Cle
nachan so confidently speaks.
The fubferibers therefore arc bound by a sense
of duty to the creditors in general to repeat their
caution against purohafing of those grantees or
either of them, and to extend the terms of it to a
purchase from any pther persons (if such there be)
to wb»m Mr. M'Clenachan may have made similar
conveyances.
(Signed) T. FITZBIMONS,
P. NICKLIN,
ISAAC WHARTON,
. WILLIAM M'MURTRIE,
°„ : SAMUEL W. FISHER.
Philip- DM- 21, 1796.
i«y (J3" Thoft printers who have been requested to
for publilh the firft Caution, are defirod t publish this
also.
Washington Canal Lottery,
ire NO. 1.
"TT THERE AS the State of Maryland has authorised
rey VV the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand.
• D two hundred, and fifty dollar*, for the puipofe of cutting
a Canal through the City of Wafliington, frov.i th Fo ;
. tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
j us The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz ~*i Prize of so,ooo dollars, ao,ooo
I ditto 10,000 10,000.
z Ti£, d sr}
J e 6 ditto r,ooo 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
r j s 20 ditto Ifflo 1,000
;tle Ji ditt ® i° 1.75°
w _ J 7 jo ditto 11 69,008
To be raised for th« Canal, 16,15s
ink 585° Prizes, J75,00a
a _ 11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
.nf 17500 Tickets, atTen Dollars, - 175,000
the T'lC Cemmiffionars have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforcfaid a<ft for the pun&ual payment ol
im the prizes. ■
B h e The drawing ef this Lottery will commence, without
o b_ delay, as loon as thf Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
t (j c Such prizes as are not demanded in fixroonths after tht
4Ct!l drawing is finiihed, lhall be coafidered as relinquished for
the the benefit ®f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
and (Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
I of DANTEL CA RK OLL, of D
bi« LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
; of WM. M DUNCANSON,
on: ' THOMAS LAW,
,11s JAMES BARRY.
Cit ol Waflxington, Feb. 11. $
For Sale,
By die Subscribers —In PENN-STRF.ET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine, js
Imported by the Eagle. ur.t
WILLINGS & FRANCIS. f u i,
Nov. 30 w&f for
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST, aft,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the i>j<
King and Royal Family of France, member of the Rn
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris, lin
Keeps a complete afibrtmeht of every thing neceflary "
to be 11 fed forthe '
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth. D °
Patent Miuoral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ; § tt
Dentrifice in powder ; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for to
sweetening the mouth and preserving the teeth—he M
also furailhes Brufhe# and loft Spunges,i
* # * He lives m Cliefnut-ftrcit, No. 13J, above m(
j Fourth-flreet. .
November if>. _ tt3
Twenty .Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber on the 23d OvStober, J O ,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES; it years
old • about 5 feet S inches high; had on a misted green
1 coat, wkh a green velvet cape and oval yellow button 3; pc
a ilriped veil; a pair of dark fpotu-d pantaloon-, and
whole boots much worn. It probable he may rhnnge
his name and dress. He has been accustomed te driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for fccuring him so that the fubferiber may jet hint
again, and if brought home all rctifonable charges paid by
Robins Cbamberlaitie. th
Eafton. Maryland, Nov. IP- 14 f.lmi-.-.vtf
Horses taken in, *a
For the Winter Sea/on, " r
And fed on clover hay at the Subscribers place, 12
n_iles on the Bristol Road, where good (tabling is pro- r ;
vided, and great care will U« taken of them th
William Bell. j>:
Nov. 23. mwfawmthtf.
Samuel Richardet £
RESPECTFULLY informs the-Gentlemen 0|
Merchants-, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS OOFPEE HOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia:
The Subscription Room will be furnished with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with thole of the principal com
mercial citins of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrcftrments, o
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the moll
approved Malt Liquors front London and other breweries.
, The Larder will befupplied with the prime and sarheft
productions of the Season.
; Large an* small Parties, on Angle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
' hours most convenient to themfelves —a cold Collation :s
f regularly ktpt for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
1 at tha bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furmmyd, and
the utmost attention paid to clcanlinefs, and every other
requ&te.
£5" Richardet will behappy to receive, and
r execute the commands of his Friends, a.id the Public at
i large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part (hall be wanting to pre
fcrve that patronage with which he has been so diflinguuh
iagly iiojiored.
" Philadelphia, April 19- mwt
' A Manufadory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufa&ory, fuuate
in a convenient part of the city,; the works almolt nevv,
1 on an entirely original conftru&ion, and built ol the belt
1 materials, and may be set to work immediately. Peilonk
_ i whowifhto purchafc, are requested to apply at No 273,
South Second Street. September 13. t t f tt
I SWAN N'S
e Riding Scbiol, Horse Academy & Infirmary^
Adjoining the Public Square. Market iU«et.
T. SWANN
e RETURNS his sincere thanks tott.ofe geotlemen by whom
ir he has been employed, during his refidencc in this {City, and
flatters himfelf that the success of his effoits, to the numerous,
obftiuaic and dangerous diseases in Korfct, in which he has
a been coofulted, together with his moderate charges, will fe
) ure their future favors and recommendation.
r He now begs leave to inloi ra them and the public at large
that his ipacious and commodious prrmifcs, eredkd for the
purposes abovedefcribed are opew for the recepiion ot pupils
of cither lex, who wtlhto brinilmitrd in the Art of Hiding
. and the right method of governing tbejr horses, so as to ride
| tlsem with cafe, elegance, and fafety—their horses will be
carefully and expeditioully broke, for every putpofe, and
made obedient tot he will of the riders ; the natural powers
which are shut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
t0 all those beauties of ailion which providence has so bounti
fully bellowed on them.
114 Also, at his hospital, every dtforder to which the horse is
_ liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long avl repeated experience.
The utility of the.above inllitutioo has never bean qneflion
ed, that it has long been wanted in this «ity, every gentleman's
. ttud will manifclt, and T. Sw ann as the hril eltablifher ol
e , thcvetcrenaryart, lolicits and relics upon the fuppoa of thai
public (which he is ever anxious in lerving) to enable hrtn to
bring it to perfection. The idea ol a fub'cription for that
0 purpose has beeu hinted by leveral gentleman, who with to
promote the institution— the amount of each fubfcrtpiion to
be returned by fcrvices in any ot the departments he pro'eges,
agreeable to the rate of charges dated in his hand bill. Such
fiibfcription is now open, and the signatures of many relp«6i
abic gentlemen- already obtained. He t her dor e injorms his
friends and such Ladies and gentlemtn to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he lhall iu a lew days take
thciibcrtyof waiting upon them and folici-ting their support
and protcftion.
N B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladieaamd
oentlemenwho wtlh to be inftru£ted.
Nov. 5. ' ' tth&f.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
A new method of keeping Bill Books,
Adapted for the cafe and convenience of merchants
In general; but particularly for those who are ex
re 0 , tsnfively conccniad in trade: exhibiting at one
view, all the bills which a merchant may have to
>ut receive or pay> i n th® couvfe of the whole year,
el ? for each month feparitively. And thereby pre
venting the trouble and inconvenience attendant on
f or the mode now in use, of feledting the bills due in
y. aach month from the promiscuous entries of several
months.
D To which t8 prefixed,
At able (hewing the number of days from any day
* any ir.onth, to the fatre day in any other month.
Philadelphia! printed for and fold by 11. CAMP
BELL & Co.
January 1.. tawtf
Treasury Depart merit,
Sept amber 28, 1796.,
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposal* will be re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
until the expiration of the firfl day cf March next en
fuipg, for thefupply of all rations which may he required
for the use of the United States, from the firfl day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firfl day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the places and within the diflri&s here
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at,
lfle; at Sandufky Lake, and on Sandufky
River; at Detroit; at Michiliniackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton ;
at St. Clair; at Fort-Jcfferfon ; at_ Grenville; at
Picque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; sfc&Fort.Defiance ;at any .place b«lo*r Fort .
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
Steuben ; at Fort Maflac ; at any place from Fort Maffac
to the south boundary of the United States on the rivet
Miflifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If supplies fhaU be required lor any posts 07 places not
! mentioned in this:notice, all such supplies ihall be fur*
niflied at prices proportioned to those to be paid at thtf
posts before recited,' or as may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the C6ntra«slor.
The rations to be supplied are to conftft of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pouvui two ounces of bread «r flour.
One pound two ounc©6 of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whifoey.
One quart and half a pint of £alt.~^
Two quarts ef Vinegar, ( hundrod ration.
Two pounds of Soap, (
One pound of Candles, J
The rations are to be furniftied in f#ch quantities, as that
there {hall at all times during thefaid term, be i'ulTicient
for the consumption of the troops at Michiliniackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix month, in
advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term of
at lead three months in advance, in good an d wholefomc
provisions, if the fame shall be required. If is to be unj
derfLOcd, that the Contra£or is to beat the extent* and
rifle of iffuirg the fupplitfs to the troops at each pofi, and
that all loffcs sustained 'by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the troops of the United States, fhaii be paid
for at the pricc of the articks captured or destroyed, on
the depositions of two or more persons of creditafcie cha
ra&crs, and the certificate of a commffiioncd oGiccr, as
certaining the eircumflances of the loss, and the amount
of ths at tides for whicl>-compenfation (hall be claimed
OLIVKR WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64*
South Second-Jlreet.
SCHEME of I LOTTERY,
For raising Sixty Thousand Dollars, agretably Ho an A£l of
the Legislature of Penafylvawia, passed dttring the la'ii,
feflian, tor building a Stone Bridge over the Riv<jr
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berks. Dollars.
1 Prrxc of 20,000 Dollari - 20,000
1 do. of t©,ooo do. - - 10,000
I 3 do. of* 5 >000 do. - 15,000
4 do. of 2,000 do. - - B,pco
20 do. of 1,000 do. - - - 20,000
1 3.9 do. of 500 do. - - 19,5©*
I 80 do. of 200 do. - - IbjOQO
s 200 do. of 100 do. - ' - ao,ooo
300 do. 50 do. - 15,000
1 do* of 500 do. to be paid the potTef-{
for ©f the firll drawn no. } *
5 do. of 3,000 do. to be paid poflcfTorj ?
of the five last drawn nos )
9,400 dow o 15 do. ; - 141,00^
10,054 frizes 300,001*
e 10*046 Planks -
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,00 a
8 Prizes (hall be paid fifteen days alter the drawing it
finifhed, upon the demand of a pofTeflor of a fortunate,
qicket, fubjeel to a dedu&ion of twenty per cent. Ihe
Drawing will commence as loon as the Tickets arc difpol.d
of, or perhaps Conner, of which puolic notict will bo given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner> William Witman %
Joseph Hiejler> J&mes Dicmer, 'Thomas l)undas %
James May, John Otto s John Kelm> Daniel Graejf^
II Zebajlian Milfer> Commissioners.
d Reading, May the 9th, 1796
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. a, to be had at the
iS above office, where the earliclt inlormation of jhe draw~
r " ing of the Washington No-a, and Patterfon .Lottery's,
are received, and check books for examination and regif
| e tering are kept.
j s O&ober 7. caawtf
£ Brokers Office, and
'a COMMISSION STORE.
rj No. 63 South Third llrtct, opposite the national new BankJ
ig QAMUEL M I f R OUNCES and JOHN VAN RESD,
al O have entered tnto co-partnerlhip, under the firm of
FR AUNCES & VAN RKED, in the bufmefs of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and
" fell on commiflion every species of flock, notes of hand,
L ' l bills of exchange, houfts and lands, &c.
.'Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds cf
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
' ? dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
°, most correit manner. Constant attendance will be given.
lo They solicit a share of the public favor; they are deter
12t mined to endeavour to deserve it.
to N. B. The utmost secrecy observed.
lo SAMUEL M. FR AUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED
ch Philad. Aiiguft 17, 1796- m&wtf
Lottery and Broker's Office,
»ot Afo. 64, South Second street.
ke
3rt np'ICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for feU—a
JL Check Book for examination.—and prizes paid in
n fche late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and regjftering, for
the City of Waffiington, No. a, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information whorq
tickets arc to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
j tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New
it s Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
. x examination.
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public
ne And his friends, who wifti to purchafc or fell' Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
ar» &c. or to obtain money on depoftc of property.
r e- %* Alio Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
ofl sale at Ten Dollars each, whieh will be drawn early in
the Spring.
r ' g "j W/u. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Augufl 18, 1796. mth
'l y PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO
ip! —No. 119 —
CHESNV t-s tre et.
(Price Eight Dollars pfr Annum.}