Zttt of tijt anb Philadelphia Daily Advertiser,
■'■iIJMHEP 1567 J
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRT GOODS.
f Forenoon—Edward fox, itas. j6,
Monday! J« uth From-ftreet,
• 1 Alternoun—Footman & Co. N«. 6/
C South Front-street.
f Forenoon—John Connelly, Old Citv
TufTAnrJ Au£Ueo, Nn. 73 fuutii i'ront-ftreet.
' J Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C 183 High -Arret.
Wednefda* \ N °' 74
y f south i hird-flrcet.
Tburfday j ForetKO» n -£dward Fox.
- I Afternoon—John Connelly.
Friday. ? Farcnoon—Willung Shannon.
J Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
For HAMBURGTC
Jf"*® '"n'HE Copper Bottomed Ship
F A >v OR 11 E, J»hn
Thompson, Maft»r, now at
H%i Wright's wharf, and will be re*.
• eSSS$^9@5 10 , ? ke on Monday next,
part of her cargo being engaged
and reidy to go on board. The ship is so well
known, that it is needless to describe her. She
is now in compleat order. For Freight or Paf
ftgr, please to applv at Mr. Jeremiah Warder's
Comptmg House, No. 12, North Third ftrcet,
er to the Matter on bord. •
August jo.
For SALE,
On board the said Ship, Swedifflpron, afTorte 1
Wollou-and Window GUst, Wrap-
V'"g Paper for Sugar Refiners, Rugs of 1 & a
Quality. Please to apply as above.
' \rfJcm4V
White Havanna Sagar.
ifcbl'bnxeO of very superior quality now difcharg
-7J hhi*. \ ing Irom tKc fliip Hrmburgh Packet,
Street wharf—and for sale by
Philip Nick/in Co.
N. B.
Hamburg Packet,
Silas Swain, Master,
For Sale, or Charter.
Aug. 14. eotf
COMMISSIONERS' SALES,
Commissioners of the counties ofLy
-L coming and Northumberland, have given
notice that they intend to proceed to the sale of
lands, for the arrearage of taxes, on the 7th of
September next.
$3" The different printers in this city will
render an eflential service to a great number of
individuals by pubhlhing this notice.
Aug. 18.
FOR SALE, ~~~
BRET AGNES ia cases
German Checks in do.
Cambrick
Ptatrillas
Cunalrigs.
OoU ard filvtr Watches
■Window Giafs 10by 8
Glass Tumblers in caft.'S '
Linseed Oil in csfts, tic. &c.
George Ptnnock,
103, Hub-Strut.
5- 3»w
NOTICE.
IF THtnv whofome years fincek«pt
Schpel at the Nine Bridges, Qreen's County, Eaf- '
tern Short, MaMrland, be living. he is hereby re
minded to call on, or writ* to, the Rav. Ambrose
Mac/hal, near Warwick, Ctcil County, Eaflfern
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will rescivc iu-,
tefefting information.
Augujt 4. mw&fjw
THE SUBSCRIBER ST" 7 "* '
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREENLEAT, '
HEREBY give notice, that they have disposed
•f til* property assigned to them for the securing
♦he payment of the note., acceptances, and en
dowments given by Edward Fox, for the ufc
of the Paid James Greenltaf; and the holders of
such notes, acceptances, and endorsements, ace !
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will fattle 1
with them for the amount of tbeir refpe<slive >
tlaims, both principal and interest, at !
any time before the icth day of Odlober aext;
after which day, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of align
ment.
Applications to be made at south-east eorner
•f Dock and Second streets (the Dock-street
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
•lock eveiy day, Sundays excepted.
HeAry Pratt,
Tho. IV. Francis,
John Miller, Jun.
John AJhley,
Jacob Baler.
Philadelphia, August 18, 1797. d
The Inhabitants of the Dillrift
of Southwark,
A RE informed thit a Coachee is provided, to b«
kept at the Constables' o(sce, the north east
earner of Front and Almond streets, where the
friends of thofc sick persons who desire' to be re
moved to the City Hospital, are requested to make
application—Also, a Heart will be kept in readi
pefi for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
N. B.— Hie Poor, who wife to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may be furniftted with ardett
Vy applying as above A ll 7. 29
Imported in, the latest arrivals from
Amsterdam and Hamburg, |and for sale by
B. ss? J. Bohlen,
A large affartment of fine French Cambrics,
Platillas Kuffia indDutch sailcloth
Bnttannias Writing, pott, and print- 1
Ronanes ing paper
Brown Holland Dutch calf flcins
Checks and ttripetf Prime madder b
Ticklenburgs Shell'd Barley
Oznahurgs Looking glasses p
White flieetiags Hollow glafe ware
jDiaper Slates o
Brpwn rolls Coffee mills
Umbrellas Brass ketties tf
Hair ribbons Scythe* and draw knives E
Black and white laces Toys assorted in boxes
Belt Holland Gin in pipes 1
London parti*tlar Madeira Wine
July 14. m&thtf
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER t6, 1797. !
WANTED
Bills on Amsterdam, at a mot exceeding six
ty days» and with approve© iniorfets, to the amount
two hundred thoufend guilders—f»F which cash
be paid at the rate of thirty eight cents a guil
tier—Applications to be made to George Simpfon,
» Efo Cashier of the Sank of the United States.
Sept. 41. • d L f )
'* NOTI CI
v Is hereby to the inhabitants of the DiftriA
t of Southwark, that a meetiug will be held at the
inft. at 7 o'clock, to take into «x>nfnleration, and a-
dopt »neafuresfor the protecfKon of the property of
our fdlovr-citizens from daring robbers.
JON. PENROSE.
Sept. 14.
Y'oung Hyson Tea.
49 chests of a superior quality—AJfo,
100 do. of-Hyfon,
Imported in the Weodrcp Sims, and for sale by
» tho Aibfcriberii, corner ef Second and Pine
1 street.
' C. Haight.
June zt. utf
1 Imported in the Jhip Pigeu,
1 And for sale by John Morton, K0.116, South
t Front-street,
Hyson
' "y 1 " 0 " (teas
9 Young Hyson C
Imperial J
April 20. eotf
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, eorner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price 3**B/&r of a Dollar,
Observations on tertain Documents
Contained ifc No. V and VI of
" The History of the United State* for
the year 1796,"
In which the ch \«ct or specdiatioh against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late S£CK»TAav of the Tieasvr, is FULLY
REFUTED,
irs/rrui Br alu sll r.
Tliis publication prcfents a concise statement
of the base means pratXifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to afperfc the characters of those
per Ion? who arc c®nfidered as hostile to their disor
ganizing schemes. It also contains the cor
refpondeoce between Mr. Hamiltan and Mefirs.
Monroe, Muhlenhurgh and Venable, on thefub
je<St of the documents alorefaid, and a ferics of let. 1
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha- 1
B-.ilton, proving beyond the polfibility of a doubt, : ]
that the connection between him and Reynolds, '
was the result of a daring confpiraty on the part
ef the latter aad his alTociates to extort money.
£sr A discount of one third from the retail pric*
will he made in favor ot wholesale purchasers, for
gash. Orders to be addrefled ts Mr. Yoino.
A**uH 15.
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage starts from'the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, '•very Tm/Jmy, Thar/Jay, and Satur
day, at ,1 o'clock, in the irormng ; arrives at Do
ver the fiffi day, at Snwwhili the second day, at
Northampton Coyrt House the third day, and on
the ntortiing of the fourth day the paflengers find
a fair and aomfortable packet to convty th«m to
Norfolk.
A paeket leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
every Tuefdiy, Thorfiay and Satur jSy, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every ]
MonVay, Wcdnefday and Priday ;]putsup at Snow '
•Hill thc-firft night, at Dover the ad night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia 1
and Norfolk, is to miles less than on any stage route <
between those places. t
TOO jnuch cannot be said in favor of the road, (
which i* most excellent indeed. The proprietors i
willttlgly engage to return the whole fare to any t
paflenger, who, after having performed tbis route, c
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame c
distance, so good a road in America.
August 11. dim. eotf.
Philadelphia, JSjh July, 1797.
NOTICE is hereby given, that feparatc- pro- ,
pofals with sealed covers will be reeeivod j
at my office until the eleventh day of September s
to furnifl) by contra<ft the following ar-. r
ticles for the use of the Army ®f the Uuitcl (
States in the year 1795. c
First C«iur»cl for
8 Sergeants coats 1
a Musicians, do. |
lo Sergeants veils V Draf atai.
li 6 Privates coats I • C
Ix 6 Privates veils J
, 64 Sergeants eoats
32 Musicians, 40. *'
96 r Sergeants veils
19* W«olen overalls Artill«ri(l»
191 Linen overalls &
936 Privates coats Engine#™.
936 d®. vests
1871 Woolen overalls
187 a Linen do.
144 Sergeants coats
72 Musicians, do.
»i 6 Sergeants veils
432 Linen overalls
432 Woolen do. > Infantry,
1893 Privates coats
1892 do. vests j,
3 784 Woolen overalls js
3784 Linen do. a
ift far 1288 Sergeants fliirta
11816 Privates do. !
12600 Socks
id Contrail, for 27a pair leather breeches T
3d Contrail, fur 272 pair boots c<
4600 pair (hoes, No, 1 in
iooo pair do. Ne.i S
4th Contrail, for 1032 Artilleriils and Engi
neers hate » ~"
1108 Infantry do.
136 Dragoon caps y
The wholt te be delivered at the city of Phila- 1
delphia, via. \
One fourth on or before the 15th day of F«- tv
bruary next.
One f«urth On or bafore the 15th day »f A
pril next.
The remaining half on or before the 15 th day q
of June next.
The articles are to be agreeable to ftieh pat
terns as lhall be dircAed by the Secretary for the
Department of War.
Payments to be made as soon as the article
(hall b« delivered, and palled infpeiflion.
TENCH FRANCIS, Purncyft,
eotxuhSep.
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut Street.
Lately Published,
x- In one vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar in boards■> fold
nt by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
>b Chefruf streets,
n" I CoHsftion of Papers on the fubjeft of
I Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United
J States for a few years part.
Compiled by NOJH IVFBSTER, j u n.
Containing letters from Dofilors Seaman, Smith,
et Bucl, J'aylor, Rarhlay, Moiifon, '4 eyiioids, Mitch
ie ell, on contagiou, &c. See.
;b Sept if. ~
a- " "" .i ■ ■■ ■i ■ ■ ~ • . „
of City Commijfioxiers Qffive,
August 29, 1797.
IN purfuancc of an Ordinance of the Sc'.-ct and
Common Councils,. pa(Ted the 22d day of (vlay U|>.
Propo C in writing will be received hy the City
CcmmiOGoners for one month from the ift of Sep.
temher next, for letting to rent on leal'cs for one
year to commence the firlt day of January next, the
y following public property of the city—
e The wharf and landisg on Vine Street,
Also on Saflafraf,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Draw Vridge, witi
the Scale and Filh Houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
I, Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous theroto, (except so much
thereof as shall be occupied by any buildings ercfl
ed for the use of the Colleflorof the Tolls, ot be
necaifary for the toll-gates.)
, Ang. 3 3tawrm.
LOST,
i the Faflyunk Road, between the Blue Ball
W and the city, a Fowling Piece, with a bral's
bi) rel a*id silver fight ; on the plate of the butt are
the letters " JamJca, 99"— and on the barrel
near the loik " Lqndon" and the Tower (lamp.
Whoever will return the aid piece to SeHnarJ,
althe sign of the fllue Ball nn the Pafiyunk Road,
or the office of this Gazette, (hall receive a reward
of Four French Crowns,
3ep<. 12.
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
«• " rrT .
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agroeably to an a& of Congress of tbe
United' States of America, pafled at Phlla*
delphia, the 28th day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ties on Carriages, for the conveyance of persons, !
which Hull be kept by or far any person, for his
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of paflengers, the several duties and
rata# following, to wit : * \ '
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every Chariot, 12 dels.
upon every Poll Chariot, Ia dais.
upon every Post Chaise, l» dols.
upon every Pkaeton, with or without top, ,
9 dols. r
upon every Ooachee, 9 dols. 1 1
upon other Carriages, having paanelwork
above, with blinds, glanes or curtains, I
9 dols. }
upon four wheeled Carriages, having fra- <
med polls and tops with Heel fpriegs, 6
dols.
upon four wheeled Garriages, with waod-
iron fprinrs or jacks, 3 dols. {
upon Curricles with tops, j uols. j
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel topearriages, 3 dols. 4
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or
iron springs, 3 dols.
For and uppn all other two wheel carriages, 1 dols.
upon every fonr wheeled carriage, having j
framed polb and *.ops, and reding up- t
nn wooden spars, t dols. t
The Collectors of the Revenue for the firft Sur- c
vey of the Dittrift of Pennsylvania, will attend 1
daily, until the 30th day ef September niat, for I
the pui pose as receiving the duties on Carriages, at ii
Germantown ; at the house of Deaiel St. Clair,Efq. r
iu the County of Montgomery; and at the houlc b
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of &ucks ; h
of which all persons poQelfed of fucb Carriages are
desired to take notice. **
Notice is also given, *
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will be grant
ad to them ; one licence for carrying on the bufi- (
ness of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or V
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one Ii- I
eonce for carrying on the business of retailing Spi- 0
rituous liquors in less quantities thau 20 gallons, at f,
tbe famr time and at the fame places, by the oflic- ~
ers legally autborifed to grant such liceaees.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
lafpe-Sor of the Revenirc of the firft sur
vey as t Ite Diftridt of Pennsylvania.
pffica of Infpedtion at ) . \
Germantow, 12th Sepr. 1J97. J 1,1 \
IMPO RTED J
la the ffiip America, James Swing, master, from „
Hamburgh, j- (
' Brown Hollands
White Platillas e
Ticklenlmrgs
Coarse Linens -
Tjpes "
V Looking Glades ") ■ f [?
GUs Tumblers J ™ e%l °*
roa sale bv P
George Pennock.
Avgyft 14. 3*w
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and elefant house at the Corner and
Ninth Street. There are two dra\CTng rooms
and one dinisg room—the largest is 31 feet by
2 6—2nd twoare lb conneded by folding doors
sto make bin one. Also, ive bed rooms, be
des 5 in the garret, well ftnilhed for servants.
Thert arc llabUs and a coach house, with evry
convenience for a family. Enquire at No. 29,
in North Seventli street, or at No. aiß, Arch
Street.
Aug. r;. >aw3W.
PETER BORGER,
INFORMS his friends and the public in general
that he has removed from No. 129, corner of
Arch and Fourth, to No. 105 North Front, be
tween Arch and Rac« streets*
Jnly y»4w
Window Glass,
©f Superior Quality, and cheaper thaa say other in
the City—
OF VARIOUS SIZES, r
from 8 by 6 to J9 by 14,
By the (ingle Box or Quantity, may be had at the /
S ore of the Subfcribars, corner of Arch and Front- '
street, *
James C. & Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, Jaoeq, a7s7- 'jiwrawfrf
( (nfurance Company of the State
a of Petinfylvania.
PHE Omce will be kcyt. until further notice at
" *- Scftool Houre in Germantown. llie
d Qompany ft ill retain the room in Chdnut, afiovc
Seventh street, where a petfon will attend to re
ceive and give answers to applications, «very day
5 from io until I o'clock.
x l d 3 t2awtf
Bank of North America,
- September Bth, I 797.
OM Monday next the Notice? for all Notes or
Dills payable at thisßank,which faUdueenthat
a.id the eiifuiag 6 days, will be ferved'on (he Pay-
ers: And the like Notices on eveiy Monday, till
the further orders of the Hiredors—Perfotis wifh
y i»ig to deposit Netcs or Bills for Collection, which
J are to fall due within the week, mud tliemfdves
undf rtake to give notice 10 the Payer*. dtf.
TO BE SOLD, ~
And immediate poffejjivn given,
A Convenient well finished Brick Tenement,
with a cook houle and other cut houfei,litu-_
ated in a pleafam part of the of V/jiming.
» ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
f has forty' feet frAnt on Wfeft-flreet, and extends
through the square to Paftur -street, on which is
ere&ed a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
1 Wilmington, Aug. 50.
t Red Port Wine.
Joft arrived, by the brig Iris, ctpt Rhodes, frcm
Oporto,
Red Port W'ne in pioes,hhds. and quarter cafcs
I 60 cwt. Cork, for sale by
Philips, Cramona, & Co.
Jp'r n- ' $
The Partnerihip,
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN 55" Company,
is diflfblved hy mutual confost. All persons
having any demands against tkefaid Houle are de
sired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to theHoufe are desired to make pay
ment to him—By whom business will in future be
Mrried on,at his Store, No. 39, South
Augtiji 7. HOll^W
NOTICE.
ALL those who have any claims against the
estate of Johm Cole, Umbrella Maker, late
deceased, will apply withia a month from the date
hereof, to Mrs. Cele, at the south east corner of
Green and Second streets, for their arrangement.
N. B. If all'demands are not sent in before the
expiration of the abovementioned time, thiy wi'l
not be allowed, as his property will be difpoiedof.
Sept. 9. *3t
ImportedinthefhipMANCHESTEß, i
Benjamin Shewbll, Master,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber, (
No. 11. Walnut Streets
Bonrdeaux Brandy ~1 :
Irifti market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback. ,
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgairsyd. i
WHO MAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rota do. do. 5
Pimento in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
A PERSON OF INGENUITY, lately arrived
from Europe, wiflies t» find here a place in
the quality of a Dire&or of a Glafs-houfc, Chryf
tal of all kinds, having particular meant Kir the r
conltru&ion of the kilns, pott, &c. and polTcfltng f
likewise the articles used in the Glals houses of e
England and France, having w»rked a long while t
in meft of thrm. Every exertion will be made to 0
render the manufa&ory deserving of public appro- e
batiou—He, who wilhes to fpsak to him, will find t
him at No. 17 j Front-fti e«t. ( t
August 14. - ' *4t c
For sale or to be let on ground- ii
rent, [
A valuable Lot qf Ground ; H
SITUATE on the north-eifteorner of Wal- 0
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State- n
lioufe square. This lot i» fifty-one feet front i,
on Walnut street, and hundred and thirteen a
feet and an half on Fifth street j there are at cl
prafent two froall two story brick houses, and a •
number of small tenements thereon. tl
Al/o, for Salt, ti
Two three story Brick Houses 0
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on r
Water-street, between Mulberry and Safiafras ( j
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the j s
south thirteen sett fix inches. Thtfe houses q
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining ft
®n the north fide, *ml are a vtry desirable litua- tl
tion for a merchant, Sour fadlor,or others who t<
may have occasion for storage of goods. This ci
property will be fold on very reasonable terms ci
forcafh. For further information apply to the ft
printer. ai
Jyly 31. m&wtf' a'
' " r " tt
The Sub/criber has for Sale, at
A large afTortment ef India Muslins,
efearfe and fin* 0 j
India Calicoes Q1
Sooty Romalls '
B'ue Cloths and Checks al
Bandanna Handkerchiefs r. f
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs [}■
An invoice of Iriih Linens and Sheetings, well t ;
aSbrted f e
A box ef Diapers ' w
Silk Umbrellas aI
Two boxes ef fine Spices, cotaining Nutmegs,
Mace and Cloves n
Black Pepper of fir ft quality „
East Inflia Ginger n
Java Sugar - f 0
A quantity of Madeira Wine Lj
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimstone e ,
Mordecai Lewis. %<.
Augnfi t*. jawim
' Cedar Shingles.
THE fubferiber has a quantity of J feet Cedar f c
Shingles cf a superior quality, so* sale at 13 f H
dollars ptr thousand. Ac
William Hallow ell,
No. 193 North Third-Jirect.
July 27. eeu^
e I HOMAS HeKMAN XjEUiTtR;
Norrh Iriith fliet, corner of North alley, No. -1,
HAS FOR
at 17 XCEI.LENT red liourdeati Wiae in caf. aai:e
ic —i boxes, fix years old
t<t White Grata Wihe Ju ciflcs
e- ricklenhurjfs
ty Riiflia Kail Cloths
Ravens Duck
B - ig Linen
Ht/Danr,
Diaper and Table Cloth
A Empty bSg, , -
ir Cmmion German Cloth
it 111 iifl'ortment of black coloured Ribbon]
r- Fine Germao Laces
II About twelve tons P,uffia cletoHemp
i- Clover Heed
h Italian So;'p, in small boxes, for family use
:s Window G'aOi AuT- 29 ittvr
THIS L>A¥ WAS PUijLlriHEO,
And for fr>!e by THOMA& DOBSON, at the
Stone No,. 41, south Second i^reet*
EVENINGS at HOME ;
' OR, the juvenile budget opened.
■ Confuting oi a variety cf MjcclUineous Picc<r*Tor
1 the inUruction and rmufement of YOUNG PEft
* SONS—Six Volumes haudfomely prinfedand bound
5 up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety arid excellence of tfiefa pieces arc
I such, that the book. needs only to be known to be
univerfaliy efleemed one of the mod valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the hands of young
parsons. / '
1 !\ C l*c>htfultafk to' rear the ttndrf thought,
1 o teach the young how to shoot,
To pour tfcs frcflt inftru&ion o'er the mind.
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to flic
1 he generous purpose in the glowing breast.*'
T uomson.
August 24. rawf4w
THIS D >Y IS PUBLISHED, "
By THOMAS DQBSON, at the Stone Houfc,
' No. 41, south-Second ftract.
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Young Ladiet, on improving and io
terefting fubjerfls.
Trasflated from the Dutch of Madame de Cambist
with alterations and improvements,
Printed on fine paper, and neatly bound,
Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales «f extraordinary difL-fs, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harTow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies CD
be ignorant of, thi» little book corned forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, beeauf*
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
thara3er x \% exhibited in an interefling point of view,
and presents examples of real and attainablo excel
lence.
The publiflier was so much pleased with the perv
sal, that he was persuaded he ihould do a pleaCng
service to the community by fending it in o circu
lation* August 14—mw4w
7V Majkrs and Pilots 'bringing up Vtjftls
frtm Foreign Pvrfs It this City.
TTTHertasfundry infringements have lately b«e»
VV made on the laws oft this {late for the pr*.
venting pestilential or infectious diseases, eithet
from r ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publilh the following ex.
tradls from the laws of ni April, 1794, 7th mi
Bth feAioss;
iIEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 17,4.-
Extras of an aft for feat ring the city and port
tf Philadelphia frtm the mtrodutlicn of pefli*
len tie I and contagious difetifss.
Sect. 7. And be it further enabled, that every
matter or captain of any Ihipor vessel eemiog fro.-u
sea (vessels actually employed in the toafting'tradt
excepted}; and bound to nity j»ort or place within
the jurildiAion of Pennfylvania.fhail eaufe his ihip
or vessel to be brought to anchor.or otherwise (lay.
eJ in the stream of the-river Dclavrare, oppefite to
the Health-Office on State-Island aforcfaid, and
there to remain until he fha.ll have duly cbtaine4 a
certificate or bill of healrh from the Resident Phy
sician. And it, previaufly to obtaining such certi
ficate or biil of health, any mailer or captain (hall
fuffer his ihip or vessel to approach nearer than the
said Health-Office to the ci-y of Philadelphia, or
ihall land, cause or 1 uffer to be landed, or brought
on (here, at any place or port within this Cora
mbnvvealth, or at any other port or place, with th* '
intent o( being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any person or person», or any goods, wares or mer
chandize, 6r, if after receiving such btU of healtk
©r eertificate, he (hall negleift or refufe to deliver
the famr tn tile Health-Officer, such matter ot cap
tain lhall forfeit *«1 piy, for each and every fuck
offence, the fuiiaof rtva hundred boiXaks.
And the captain or mailer of every flup or ves
sel (hall fend a fafe and commodious boat to bring
the physician 011 board, and lhall in like manner
convey him back to the Health-Office, after he ha«
concluded his official examination ; And while hrf
is making such examination, or in cafe any fubfc
quent examination by the Health Officer or Con
futing Physician, agreeably to the directions ol
this aiS, the niafler or captain (hall expose or eauie
to becxpofed to the/earth cf the Resident Phyfi
cian,or of the Health Officer and Consulting Physi
cian (as the cafe may be) each and every part of the
Ihip or vessel, and lhall prefalit to his visw eaclt
and every person or persons on board thereof, and
and shall also true and fatisfaSory answers make
to all such questions as the Resident Physic iiu, &c.
at the-time of examination (hall ask relative to the
health of any port or place fr»m which the Ihip or
vessel failed, or has since touched at—the » umber
of persons on board when the ihip or vessel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that have
since been landed or taken 011 board, and when
and whererefpetSively—what perfonj on board—
s they hata been during the voyage, or (hall, a<v
the time of examination, be infeiled with any pef«
tilentialor contagious disease—and what is the pre
sent state and condition of the persons on boari
with refpeft to their health or diseases. And it
any miller or captain (ball refufo to expose as aforo
aid, to the fearchof any of the officers aforefaid,
ft if he (hall coneealany fiti perfon,or in any other man*
[er deceive the proper officer! afar efaid in his «/wri.
uch captain or matter,for every such offence, (hall
forfeit and pay the futn of five uvndaud dob.
LARS.
Sect. 8. And if any person or persons whatso
ever (the Resident Physician, &c. excepted) (hail
go on board any vessel, before the matter thereof
has received a certificate of health in the manner
directed, every person so offending, (hall pay the
UlTl Of QUI nVNDRGD DOfcbars.
rr beisg abiqiutely necessary that the foregoing *
fedions Qvould be punAually complied With, the
fubferiber, in compliance with his duty, mull e\-
a«2 a rigoro»s observance of the lame, or else be
un4ef tiw oeceffity of putting the laws in force.
Vi «. ALLEN, Health Officer of the
■ Port of Phiietdelpkia.
JuJy 14* ii*
e«!2t
\VoiX!MK xnCONTINUATION. OF
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
FROM LAYE LoNbON PAPERS;
FRENCH LEGISLATURE
COUXCI'. OF FIVE HUNDRED.
iy Mefiidor, July 13.
Th" difcuflion Upon liberty of worfllip
Was resumed. /
Jourdan (des Bouches du Rhone) Toted
for the ptojeft of Camille Jourdan with fe-
Veral amendments.
Rampillon endeavoured to refute the
reasonings of Bpiffy d'Anplas, by quoting
the last part of a speech which he pronounc
ed to the conventiorl, in which he used this
expreflion: ' The catholic religion fells
very dearly the confutation which it gives
the Unfortunate.' He painted the disasters
of*La Vendee, and the vengeance employ
ed by the priests and fanatics. Policy, the
tepofe of humanity, and the good of the
state, said he, oppose a dispensation from
the oath, and the privilege of bells. The
difcuflion was adjourned. '•
26 Meffidor, July 14.
Jean Dreby, in a motion of order, Mov
ed that for the purpose of formally contra
dicting those who wished to counteract the
revolution, arid of uniting the minds of
those who have been long divided, the re
turn of the 14th of July, this firft epoch
of the French revolution, be confeorated
by a solemn declaration, that the French
citizens who overthrew the Baftile in 1789,
have deserved well of their country. A
doptcd.
Johannet.—You cannot celebrate the
anniversary of the 14th of July, in the
way that it ought to be, without giving
liberty to the ecclefiaflics in confinement or
banishment. I move that the projeft of
Dubruel be adopted.
A difcuflion took place on this motion,
which was supported by Royer-Colard and
, Paftoret, and opposed by Thibaudeau and
PerCey.
LONDON, July IJ.
Yesterday at half pad one the remain# of the ve
nerable Mr. Macklin were removed from his houfc
in Taviftock-row, to Covent-garden church.
The cavalcade confided of a hearse and four and
(he coaches and pair.
The following gentlemen attended as mourners:
Mr. Hull, Mr. \tkinfon,
Mr. Griffith, Dr.Kennedf,
Mr. Barloto, Mr. Brandon,
Mr. Kirkman, Mr. Davie*,
Mr. Hughes, Mr. Ledger,
Mr. Macdonaldi Mr. Munden.
The corpse was taken into the vcflry, and pray
ers read over it, in a very iropreffive and pathetic
manner, by the Rev. Mr. Ambrose, who had been
a pupil of the I'eceafed, and from the refpefl he
bote his tutor, had come from Cambridge to per
form the last act of kindness in reading over him
the funeral service.
Alter this ceremony the body was interred in the
vault dose to the north-gate of the cliurch-yari, at
the, entrance in eovent-garden.
It was at the deceased's particular request that he
was interred in this vault, having a brother buried
there ; the cxpence of opening it was defrayed by
Mr. Harris.
On the coffin lid wit inferibed—
CHARLES MACKLIN,
COMEDIAN,
Died the nth of July, 1797,
Aged 97.
The funeral was conducted by Mr. Sloper, of
tovent-garden theatre.
A great number of persons were aflembled to fee
the last of this veteran of the ft age ; and among
whom were many of his theatrical friends, who
had tojoyed his good company while living, at the
elub of Antelopians, which he always frequented
till within three month* of his deatji.
Nightcap v. Head- In the ifteoUnt of a suicide in
one of the provincial papers, we are told that the
tall went through the head of the gentleman and
was found in his night-cap /
Tax tn Luxuriet—An order was made in the
house of lords in May,*l776, " that the commis
sioners »f his majefly's eicifc do write circular let
ters te all such persons whom they have reason to
fufpeift to have plate, as also to those who have not
paid regularly the duty of the fame." In conse
quence of this order, the accountant-general for
houfhold plate, sent to the celebrated John Wefley,
a copy of the order.
John's laconic answer was in these words :
" six.
" I have ttvo silver tea-spoons in London, and two
at Brillol. This is all th« plate which I have at
present : and I shall not buy any more while so
many round me want bread. I am, Sir,
" Your mcft humble servant,
" JOHN VU|LIT."
July J3. JjS
Advice has been received at the admiralty, that
"a vessel called tile SeaHerfe, of Liverpool, took a
Spanilh pelacre, in the Mediterranean, and carried
her into Gibraltar,but having the plague on board,
(he and her prize were ordered to quit the harbor,
and orders have been sent from England for all
{kips who may fall in with them net to have any
intercourse with the crews of the above veftels,
till they have performed quarantine.
Mr. Mazzingi, it appears, has been put upon
the Lisle flation ; r.o doubt, to enable lord Malmef
bury to correspond as rapidly with his court asLe
tourneur with the dire&ory, as Mr. Mazzinghi's
communications are found far to exceed the rapidity of
the telegraph . ,
The trials on bdard the Ne'tune leem to draw
■ear a close. All the (hips which furnilh the evi
dence are difptrfed or dispersing to various Ra
tions. Examplesfufficisntly (hiking have already
been made in the Leopard, the Lp.rtcalter, and the
Sandwich, where mutiny mod predominated. And
such ®f the present prisoners as may be appointed
to die, are enough to fuffer in the other (hips. This
mav iikewila be gathered from the tenor of the
que'ftions now put by the court martial, which
have all a tendency, rather-to acquit than condemn.
And it is but reasonable to fuppole, that the enor
mous eipence occasioned by this awful prosecution,
will dispose government to terminate it as soon as
the necessity of the cafe allows.
The inhabitants of Botany Bay have instituted
theatrical amusements, and have some very adroit
performers among them. As they have few au
thors however, and therefore little novelty, they
mean to fugeft to the legislature that literary theft
Ihould bt puithed with tranfportatiin, which would
very soon procure them a plentiful supply of drama
tic writers,
July 18—19.
The independent ele&ors of the city of
Dublin, we understand, amounting to an
undeniable and great majority, mean to take
no part whatever in the return of representa
tives for the metropolis in the new parlia
ment. It is understood that they intend to
o?te andfign individually, thei* reasons for
not exerciiing their fuffragc—one of which
i» that the house of commons, in the pre
sent unequal and defective state of nyrefea
tstion, never can enjoy the confidence of the
peop!e. This' will furnifn new matter.—
The refolutiou is- totally without precedent.
v>tar.
The negociation at Lisle has Commenced j
under favorable atifpices, but tlie firft de
mands of the French appear to be very high.
The negociation betwixt the French an<* the
emperor still goes on, though it is said to
meet with many interruptions ; but the em
peror, afraid of Bubnaparte, exhauftrd in
his finances, and threatened by the king of
Pruflia, will ultimately, there is no doubt,
sign the articles of peace. The cabinet of
Berlin has, in fadl, pufolifhed a declaration
of war against the emperor, within these
few dafs. Switzerland begins to feel the
(hock of the revolutionary volcano, which is
also extending te the islands of the Archi
pelago, and pramifes very (hortly to (hake
the throne of the Grand Turke. The death
of Mr. Burke, at such a period, is an ev£n.t
of no fttiall moment.
Deeply versed as the French indisputably
are in that firft of revolutionary arts, the
deftruftion of every impulse of feeling and
humanity, they have never been able able so
far to revolutionize the brute creation as to
reduce them, in this refpeft, to a par with
themselves. It is a faft not less curious than
certain, that, at one of the allegoric feftivals
given by Robespierre, the oxen who drew
the car of liberty flopped (hort at the en
trance of the Place"de la Revolution, dif-'
gufted with the ffnell of blood with which
the ground was overflown. Every effort of
the driver to make them advance proved
fruitlefs. . The populace, deeply struck with
the circumstance, retired alio, and abandon
ed the feftival ! h!
Yesterday arrived a mail from Ireland.
One of the papers of that country remarks,
that so altered are the sentiments of the peo
ple of the north, in consequence of the at
tempered firmnefs and clemency of the go
vernment, and the to-operative conduft of
the officers there commanding, that the
greatest desire to enter into the service mani
feft» itfelf, and from an armed oppofitio» to
the government of their country, they now
teftify an eagernefs'to become its armed sup
porters.
The marquis de Spinola came to Eng
land on account of being ordered to quit
the French territory.
The funeral of Mr. Burke was condufted
with great solemnity and decorum. The
pall-bearers were :
The lord chancellor, fpeakerof the house
of commons, fir Gilbert Elliot, duke of
Devonshire, earl Fitzwilliam, earl of Inchi
quin, and the hon. Mr. Windham, secretary
of war. Besides these gentlemen, there
were many others of rank who attended, as
well as feveralof the French officers, deputed
from the committee. Mr. Burke's manu
scripts are to be immediately revised, and
sent to the press.
Sir Edward Pellew with his little squad
ron is returned to Falmouth from a cruile
off Brest.
The Paris papers have corrected their er
ror about lord Malmefbury being received at
Lisle with great diftinftion. His reception
was as we have stated it to be. The follow
ing detail of it is given in L'Eclair of the
13th instant :
" A discharge of 50 pieces of cannon did
not take place on the arrival of lord Malmef
bury. He was received with no honor what
ever, and even the guard at the gate was not
turned out. He was condufted to an hotel,
where two sentinels were instantly placed.
Citizen Artaud, president of the municipali
ty, and Le Clercq, commiflioner of the ex
ecutive directory, accompanied his lordship.
" The president offered lord Malmefbury
a lodging, which however could sot be got
ready in less than two days. He also offer
ed him every thing he and his suite might
be in want of, which was accepted by his
lord (hip. All the inhabitants of Lisle are
very much discontented with this kind of
reception ; but it is entirely attributed to
Letourneur, who, it is said, gave orders to
that effedt. Yet on his own arrival at Lisle,
he had no objeftion to be saluted with a dis
charge of artillery, and to have the streets
lined by the national guard from the gates
oif the city to his lodging." Morn. Her.
The French direftory, since the introduc
tion of Mr. Barthclemy, has conduced the
affairs of that government with greater se
crecy than ever, and scarcely a word trans
pires there refpe&ing the progress of the ne
gociation.
By captain Ker, of the American fliip
lUuftrioms President, arrived Monday morn
ing at Cowes, from Batavia, we receive the
pleasing intelligence that he left at St. He
lena, the 24th of May last, all well, the fol
lowing homeward-bound Eaft-Indiamen, —
which were, the firft fair wind, to fail under
convoy of his majesty's fliip Ruby, for Eng
land : Bombay Castle, Earl Howe, Brunf
wick, Exeter, Earl Cornwallis, and a coun
try (hip, with feten whalers.
To the eastward of the Cape, captain
Ker was chaced by a single French frigate,
and though so near at one time as to receive
the Frenchman's fire, was fortunate enough
to make his escape by dint of manoeuvring.
It was reported at St. Helena, that a
fqttadron of fix frigates, rendezvousing at
the Mauritius, had taken and carried in
there several American and neutral vessels,
with cargoes of immense value.
July 20.
Lijle, July 14.
I arrived here only yesterday morning ;
and I believe I can already assure you that,
whatever reports may be circulated in your
city, in order to affeft the price of flocks,
we (hall soon have a well cemented peace.
This, at least, is the opinion of your friend
who'performs a very important part in
this momentous business. This likewise is
the opinion of every man of uiiderftanding.
Indeed, what power on earth can now pre
vent the conclusion of this grand work, fincc
on one fide both nations sigh for peace, and
and on the other every thing proves, that
Pitt, for the firft time in his life, afts with
sincerity. Some people r take pains to pcr
fuade the public, that the Dire&ory will
throw obstacles in the way of the negotiati
on, bot is it not univevfally known, that
the French nation on the one fide, and their
representatives ontht other, have openly de
clared their sentiments upon this fubj«CV.—
To oppose the wi/hes of a whole nation whtf
fecured their liberty by forqe of arms
Avere to 7 expofe themselves to all the blame
and responsibility of future events, and even
to incur the guilt of treason ; in (hort, if
the negotiations Were to be broken off, the
two Councils would call upon the Directo
ry to acquaint them with their motives, and
the English Government, as they did on the
■former mission of Lord Malmefbury, would
1 make their conduCt-andproportions public,
in order to prove that they themselves aCted
with candour and sincerity. If ibe Direc
tory could have ftopt in the beginning they
cfcrtainly would have done it, and of this
we have * pro4f, iioce they disapproved the
conduCt of Buonaparte, in agreeing in the
the preliminaries with the;, Emperor to ad
mit to a Congrefe to be held an English
envoy ; now it is too late, and you may rec
kon with certainty upon a speedy peacfi on
tolerable terms."
The letter is certainly to be regarded on
ly as the reasoning of an indivdual ; but it
is obvious' that the French do not feel
conscious that their terms are calcula
ted to exasperate the English Court, and
to break the negociation. What those terms
are we do not know ; but from'various cir-'
comftances it is evident that the negociati
on will be spun out to a great length. If
we were to hazard a conjeCture on the out
line of the French projeCt it would be, that
they demand for themselves,
1. The restitution of all our conquefis in
the Weft-Indies ; a condition Much Great
Britain would not hefitite to comply with.
2. The restitution of their settlement in
the East Indies, butwith ahint that it might
be surrendered for an equivalent.
3. The surrender of the doCtrirre, that
free bottoms do not make free goods, by
which neutral vessels might in time of war
navigate fafely.
4.. An indemnity for their losses at Tou
lon ; an article of claim advanced only as a
make-weight, to be afterwards given up.
5. The formal surrender ofour mortgage
on Belgium—an article, however, about
which they are careless, as they are in fniig
poffeflion.
For Spain and Batavia they would inti
mate that arrangement might be
made, by which they would suggest the ex
pediency of our conceding Gibraltar to
Spain, upon condition that she should grant
to the Dutch an equivalent in the Weft-
Indies for the Cape' ■of Good Hope and
Ceylon, which should remain with us.
The Dutth Weft-India colonies to be res
tored, and an indemnity granted for the
{hips and cargoes ftopt in England at the
commencement of the war.
These speculations, however, are like all
that have been published on the subjeCt, ex
tremely vague, and perhaps very filly. We
can only fay, that we have made arrange
ments for procuring as early accounts as pos
sible of the progress of the conferences, and
without any idle boasting of our resources,
we may be permitted to fay, that our read
ers may at lesft-expeCt fidelity and candour
in our communications and that we will
not pretend to more knowledge than we
really pofiefs. Morning Chronicle.
We flop the press to announce French
paper* up to Monday last, the 17th instant,
inelufive. They do not contain any. im
portant intelligence. Paris is perfectly tran
quil. The feaft of the 14th July was cele
brated with great order and oeeonomy ; and
Carnot, as President of the Directory, pro
nounced a difcourft interesting from the
tone of security with which he speaks of the
situation of the republic, and from the of
fence which it gave Jacobins, who
are daily propagating alarms of internal
danger.
" How pleasant it is," fays Carnot, " to
celebrate the day on which liberty had its
birth—that liberty which arose out of the
bosom of tempests was preserved in the midst
of so many flioals, sanCtioned by so many
vidtories—that liberty, in short, which gua
rantees a conflitution still new, but which
has already been proved by so many violent
attacks, by so many dark conspiracies, by
such unexampled success !
" Happy if, while the republic astonishes
the world with the eclat of her arms, and
stipulates with moderation, even on the the
atre of her victories, the conditions of her
peace and the repose of Europe ; wicked
men, animated by the vilest paflions, by jea
lousy, avarice, and the third of vengeance,
shall not succeed in tearing, her vitals.
" But what can these impotent efforts
j>vail against the national will, which de
mands an end to the revolution ? In vain is
an alliance formed betwein anarchy and def
potifnv ; between rage and hypocrisy ; be
tween Lous XVIII. and the shade of Ma
rat, to extinguish the social compact of'9s.
They will not fueceed more in'trying to de
stroy it by sudden explosion, than in execut
ing' the proje& of demolishing it piece by
piece.
" Republicans, alarmed for she fate of the
conflitution, be re-afTured. No, liberty shall
not parish. No, it is not a r<trogade move
ment, to make a necessary narch back to
the point which ought not to haxe been o
verleapt. Our legislators will know how to
stop at the point marked out by juflice ;
and that vigour of government which has
been able to strike down anarchy even in its
fury, will know how to prevent it from re
viving ; and will strike down royalifm in its
turn, if it shall dare to raise its proscribed
head.
" Friends of the republic, would you
hasten the moment of enjoyment unaltera
ble, keep at a distance from the impure re
mains of that abhorred seCt, those sanguina
ry defciples of Robespierre and Baboeuf,
who insolently mix their infamous cause
with yours.
" The republic, fay you, is about to pe-
/
ri:h. It is In coifcfintioa with all the efforts
of tfialignity ; its enemies enter in crowds ;
fansrtrcifm brandishes its flaming torch. Say
rather that the confutation is strong indeed,
fincebyits means, the republio can already
brave so many combined enemies'", since the
internal tfSnquiliry has fuffered no sensible
alteration ; lince each day, during the 20
months of its organization, our situation
has been incessantly improving ; since it
flourifhe6 } since it prospers in spite of the
clamours, in spite of the defamation, in spite
of the penury, under the brambles with
which they strive to ftifle it.
" May a separation then take place be
tween the cause of the good and that of
the perverse. May oar enemies be 1 num
bered that their nullity may be recognized !
" Frenchmen, <Jare at length to call your
selves republicans ! Dare to make a com
mon cause with the conquerers of Europe,
your fathers, your and your sons.
May all alarm among us cease ! May eve
ry one, in discharging with fidelity the du
ties which the neceflities of the state require,
feel himfelffafe in his liberty and property.
May he who has honestly acquired, enjoy
the fruits of his industry, without fear of be
ing despoiled by the molt crul enemyss of
the "republic, without fear of being the vic
tim of his civifm, of his confidence in the
word of the legislature, without fear of in
voking in vain the constitutional eharter of
his security and rights.
" Frenchmen, let us smooth the trifling in
terefls which divide us; let us carry even to
the feet of the Eternal Father, our free and
pure worship ; and may every one serve
God according to his own conscience, pro
vided we offer up oot' adoration in the Ipi
rit of love and concord. The dominion of
the law is separated from that of the con
science. True religion, whatever may be
its worship, is essentially the friend of order,
and of the obedience due to magistrates :
it is the friend, therefore, of the republican
conflitution. May every fort of worship,
then, be exercised freely, under national pro
tection ; and may they in their turn, who
demand only for themselves simple tolera
tion, not become the opprefTors of their fel
lowcitrizens.
" Yes : the conflitution is terminated !
You, who are still seduced by different views/
of imaginary good, renounce these delufion#
which render you miserable ; abandon thf
projefts of which you will soon become the
viClims : The time for exaggeration is pad ;
it is no longer by a revolutionizing enthuf -
asm, but by prudence and'firmnefs by whic 1
a revolution is consolidated, that you can fd
cure the basis of your happiness. French*
men, may this commemoration of the day
on-which you conqured liberty, contribute
to make it more dear to yon than ever."
This speech was received with the molt
lively acclamations of applause.
VIENNATjune 28.
The emperor has determined that Vene
tian Dalmatia, of which he has lately taken
poffeflion, shall be annexed to the kingdom
of Hungary.
The Moniteur, and other French papers
which were prohibited here during the war,
are now permitted to be introduced and
publicly read.
A part of the garrison here, which had
received orders to march, has been counter
ordered.
Buonaparte employs daily 150,000 livres
for the maintenance of his army, which the
Italians pay.
MILAN, Junt 20.
The patriots here had flattered themselves
th*t a revolution would take place in the
states of the duke of Parma, and that they
would be added to the Cifalpitie republic.
This hope has, however, been disappointed
by a proclamation from general Buonaparte
of the 10th instant, in which it is ordered,
1. That the boundaries between Lom
bardy, the Milanese, the territory of Reg
gio, and the states of the infant duke of
Parma, shall remain as fettled in the third
year of the republic.
2. That no injury shall be done to any
subjeCt of his royal highness.
3. The Parmesan deserters who shall take
refuge in the Cisalpine republic, as also all
criminals, shall be delivered up.
It is said, however, that the Swiss baili
wicks, on the lake of Lugano, will be
united to the Cifpadane republic. Buona
parte appears to be now principally occu
pied by this affair, at lea J with the recon
ciling of these differences.
The provinces of Bologna and Ferrara
are very discontented at being allotted to
make a part of the Venetian republic : De
puties have arrived at Venice to adjust this
union.
The pope, who is again recovered, on
Whitsunday gave his bleflirigto the people,
and distributed a general indulgence, in his
full robes of ceremony, and the triple crown
on his head.
' We are assured that one principal objeCt
in the negotiation for peace, namely, that
relative to the dispositions of the German
states on the left bank of the Rhine, is al
ready adjulled ; they will all, with the ex
ception of one certain .country, be restored
to the Germanic empire.
It is reported here, that the Auftratis
will again have poffeflion of Mantua ; but
all the preparations now making seem rather
to prove the contrary.
GENOA, June 27.
Throughout the whole Genoese territory
Trees of Liberty are now planted, and the
new government acknowledged. All the
ex-nobles who have left the city mufl return
within ten days, under a penalty of 10,000
dollars. Every citizen who has more than
one musket mull deliver the reft in at the
head-quarters. On the 15th, the people
forced open the prisons, and set all the pri
soners at liberty who had been confined for
offences committed before the 22d May.
They amounted to the number of 206.
But a» ordinance was published, declaring
*
that all those who fiiould not return v .'(Hirf
24 hours lhould be '(hot, tipon which 16?
returned, mod of whom will regain their
libel-ty. The citizen president Doge rioW
a blue and scars.
VENICE, June 21.
The fquadi on s which has foiled .from
henee on an expedition to the Venetian
islands in the Levant; conlifts of eleven
(hips, among which are three of 74 guns,
and three French frigates, on board of
which are 4000 French and too Venetian
soldiers, under the command of the French
general of division Gentili.
VELLETU, in Italy, |une 28.
A plan was formed to revolutionize thii
place, and to drive away the GoverOor. In
order to detach us from the Holy See, our
philanthropic regenerators had formed the
design of planting the Tree of Liberty, and
of aflaffinating all who (hould oppose this ci
vic ceremony. The Governor being inform
ed of the plot, made himfelf sure of the good
Citizens, and communicated to them the
circumstances. The Agents of the Con
spiracy were carefully watched, but no im
pediment was thrown in the way of their
design. The Tree of Liberty was aceord
ingly planted in the night's hut at the break
of day, the people were surprised by the
fight of fe\;en heads hung round the
tree. There appeared also the following
inscription: " Liberty and equality to those
who like them. Do you continue to plant
trees, -and we shall not cease to crown them
with your heads." To this was appended
a scroll, containing the names of all those
who had taken a part in the conspiracy.
The tree, and the heads, which were those
of the principals in the plot, including two
strangers, were soon after removed. The
Governor tranfmittedan accountofthis event
to the Court of Rome, and we since hear
nothing more either of Liberty or equality.
jjjBWBjMBMBW—HTIMi I r«T MJLTOKarwKaawa—TO——
ICjje <®>aj ette.
j PHILADELPHIA,
j SATURDAY EVENING, Ssptember 16.
To the Inspectors of the Hialth Office
for the Port of Philadelphia.
GENTLEMEN,
Agreeable to your request we now lay be
fore you the following brief relation of fa£ts,
refpefting the state of the City Hospital.
Since the commencement of this institu
tion, 169 patients have been admitted int&
it. Of this number, 62 have died, 31 have
been discharged cured, 1 have eloped, and
61 remain in the Hospital: of whom 14 are
convalescents. Unfortunately the difeafea
of many of thcfe patients were so far advan
ced previous to their admission, and the in
formation we received concerning them fa
imperfeft, that it was impossible either to
render them any effe&Oal medical relief, or
to form an accurate opinion of the real na
ture of their complaints, at the -firft attack.
Several of these had received some medical
assistance before they came our care,
while others were totally during
the iiivhole course of their illness. Of thefe
many died from 2 to 24 hours after their
admission into the Hospital. In the present
return 17 are of that description.
A great number of the cases which
under our obftrvation are billions remittent
fevers. A few have aflumed the appearance
of the Typhus IcleroiJtt attended with symp
toms which indicate a considerable degree of
malignity. One was the natural Small
Pox, another the Hooping Cough, and in
two the most striking symptom was dy.fen
tcry. The maligrtity in many inftgnces has
probably been much iocreafed by the unheal
thinefs of the places where tha sick haYe re
sided, f»ch as frnall crouded houses in nar
row, confined, and badly •ventilated alleys,
as well as from other circumstances frequent
ly attending those who dwell in such places.
These circumstances have been rendered flill
more unfavorable by the general desertion of
the sick, which has been a consequence of
the present alarm.
Not having been yet called on by the at
tending physicians in the city and suburbs»
to vifjt the sick now under their care, we
cannot give a decided opinion refpefting the
contagious or peflilential nature of the
es in those parts. We can only fay, at pre
sent, that though the Hospital has been al
ready opened 4 weeks, no inltance has oc
curred of its being communicated to the nu
merous attendants whose duty obliges them
to'be|among the sick both day and night,
in all fituatiom and in all stages of tbc Fe
ver. Nor have any ot the grave-diggers, or
those employed in removing or burying the
dead,i been in the lea ft affedled. We are,
extremely happy that' we have it is our pow
er to communicate pleasing information, si
it may in forae measure, contribute to leflon
the dread of receiving the contagion of the
disease by attending the fiek, and prevent
that general desertion which we have no
doubt has considerably encreafed the mor
tality.
We are,
Gentlemen,
Your most obedient fcrvants,
SAMUEL DUFFIELD,
EDWARD STEVENS, .
Physicians to the City Hospital,
PubHthed by order of the Board,
V Wm. MONTGOMERY,
Chairman, gpytem,
SAVANNAH, August 25.
Last Tuesday evening, a French boy by
the name of Gabriel Du Cox, a native of
Rouin in France, belonging to the (hip
Aamilton of Boston, fell from the Market
Wharf, and was nnfortunately drowned.
Yesterday morning the body as a white
woman by the name of French Polly, was
taken up out of the river, a Corotiers inquetl
was held on the above bodies, who brought
in their verdift, " accidental death by
drowning."By this (Jay' 3 Mail. j. nf "
- ( * ian
NIW YORK, September 15.' . | thal
An unhappy accident took place yeftfr- v '
in the afternoon, at the Branch Bank 1
n<i\v building in Wat.er-!treet, by which " t
Mr. Abraham Kip., one of the masons, tl! ".
101 l his life, and Mr. Musgrove, a car- "'.' n
penter, was much hurt. .
'Mr. Kip was a faithful and induflriotis
man, and has l,cft a wife and several chil- '
dreci to lament his premature departure.
To prevent mifrepreferitations, we have
taken pains to colleft the following impar- '
tial ftatemcnt of the fafts refpefting this
melancholy catastrophe, from fpedlators of J
the tranfaflion, who have fubferibed their
names :—The deceased had ascended the ll! F
roof; and went through it near the ridge
of the bpufe, in order to raise the j- 1
tackle, which was erefted to hoill the tun- _e
ber, and to fix it more permanent to hoist a
some flone for the back cornice, and being 0
near the tackle fad, his feet (lipped, and ces
he came to the ground, striking a timber k '
iu . the next ilory, which timber fell and to
wbunded Mr. Mufgrave.
It may be remarked with propriety, that . an<
the utmost caution h?s been observed by ! .
the managers of tlr;3 builing," since the com- tul
mencement ©f it, and that this is the firft _
accident that has happened, which accideht '
was not for want 01 their care. * '
John Henderson,
John Walker, J.' 11
Henry Miller.
■ tai
LONDON, July 31.
LONDON CORRESPONDING ltr
SOCIETY. ■ | th
The society, pursuant to their advertise- j q i:
meut yesterday, attempted a meeting in the i
fields near Pancras, but by the adlivily of
the magistrates, were prevented from pro
ceeding to business. A crowd, confiding 5
of several thousands of perf6ns, men, women aa
and children, had assembled, at two o'clock, ar
when the aft, prohibiting Seditious Meet- 111
ings, having been read, and ftjme of the vc
members of the society beginning to har- at
rangue the populace, they were irtftantly '
taken into custody by the constables. The h<
remonstrance, >vhich follows this article, wa» 111
read no further than down to the words—
«' Defpofs of Europe", when the reader was dl
instantly handed down from the tribune.— "
On the apprehension of these men, instead of
any Symptoms of resistance appearing, a pa- ni
nic fejjliied to seize the whole mass, who o:
nfn irf every direftion, leaving their leaders rl
to their fate, who were immediately con-
vtyed to Bow-street. Among these were 11
Galloway, Binns, Barrow, Fergufon, Stifc P
key, and Hodgfon, men formerly diftin- ir
guifh,ed for tKeir adlivity. c:
The only fpeeck pronounced from the "
tribune, previous to breaking up the meet
ing, was to this effefl:— ** That the time w
was at length come to determine whether c
Bow-street magistrates were to be the sole c
expounders of law I"—What followed was a
the brief comment on the text delivered, and t (
the business ended. 1
For some time a number of idlers loitered "
about the spot ; but at length separated t
without any reeourfe being hid to force.— 11
The London horse association, the Well- n
minster foot, and several other volunteer t
corps, were on duty in the neighborhood.
August 1.
The Spani(h finances are in a date of the (
moll absolute derangement. The progress
of the-French principles too in Spain gives
the mod serious, and certainly well founded/?
alarms to the government.
G*n. Stuart is returning from Li(bon ;
and Gen. Deburgh, jointly with the prince | <
of Waldeck, is to command the Britith and : <
Portuguefc troops in Portugal. <
The French fleet now in Bred harbor is <
commanded by admiral it con- ;
fids of 12 (hips as the line and 9 frigates.— j
The admiral, it i» said, has received orders '
to put to sea immediately. (
August 2. '
The French seem anxious to renew hof- '
tilities against the grand dnke of Tuscan) ■
With such intentions, a pretext is easily
found : Buonapare, under a pretence that
some Frenchmen have been infultcd in Leg
horn and Pisa, has sent a note to the grand
duke, threatening to march a column of
troops into his dominions, if the (lighted in
iult is offered to the French.
August 3.
By private letters just received from Tan
giers we learn, that the emperor of Moroc
co, Muley Solyman, has marched from Re
bat with a body of 63,000 cavalry, and is to
be joined on his march by his brother,
Prince Muley Tair, with another body of
35,000 horse, when they are to proceed to
gether to Morocco, with a view to indispose
their brother, Ben Drifs, who fotne time a
go usurped the throne. Should they fuc
cced in this attempt, which there is little
reason to doubt, from the very formidable
force which these princes have with them,
and which, we underdand, are equipped in
the bed poflible manner, the consequence
will be the total deftruftion of the Spanish
interest in that territory.
August 4.
A letter from Vienna of the 15th ult.
ftotcs, that M. Gradenigo, late feeretary of
the Venetian embassy, has been appointed
Venetian arhbaffador by the present provi
sional government of Venice, but not ac
knowledged in that qnality by the Imperial
couit. The fame letter adds, that the]
greatest part of the Hungarian army has re- j
ceivcd orders to march .to Udine, to form
the reserve of the right wing of the Impe
rial army in Italy, and that great numbers
of recruits continue to be levied in the Im
perial dominions.
We learn from Vienna of the 19th ult.
that count dobenzel, the Imperial ambassa
dor at the court of Peterfburgh, has been
appointed by his Imperial Majesty, numder
plenipotentiary at the congress (or the con
ilufion of a definitive treaty of peace be
tween France and the German empire.
A letter from Bolzutio of tlie 14th tilt.-. lonj
informs us, that tlie town ot Brefci* .ha? t and
fiinendcred' to the Imperial troops ; and (his
that all other Venetian towns were likely to | ers,
follow that example. \ f r " l
A letter "from: Milan of the the 15th ult. ufu
dates, that Corfn, as well as all other Venc? Le
tian i (lands, are completely democratized ; fail
and that the provifiovml government of Ve- too
nice has iffuec? a formal protest againll the 1
Austrian troops having taken pohefiion of
Iftria and Dalmatia. Vic
Align ft 5.
Though matters have not yet been bro't
to an issue between the contending parties at <
Iran's, yet there, at prsfent, appeals to be a the
disposition to'conceflion on the part of the tiv<
Dire&ory, which affords some grounds for ore
supposing thas they may be ultimately led Im
to the adoption of conciliatory measures. per
This however, we,conceive, will entirely he
depend on the degree of refinance which they int
(hall experience from the majority x>i the not
Councils, and from the extent of the refour- vol
ces of which they "may find themselves pof- of
feffed. Their pad conduft leaves no room ma
to hope that the majority of the Direftory nai
will ever be influenced by principlesofequity ed
apd moderation. rot
Should the Councils prevail, we dill con- T1
tinue to think that the negociations at Lisle by
may terminate fuccefsfully. Meanwhile, there ; wi
is one part of the conduft of the Direftory gr
that is calculated to excite the ftvongeft It)
suspicious. The frrmal approbation which wi
theyhave given to the marauding system pitin
surd by Buonaparte, in Italy, renders It cer- ag
tain that general would not undertake to re- wl
lutionize any country without previous in- fo<
ftrudlions from Paris—To the Direftorv, un
j therefore, we are warranted in imput'iig the lai
J quarrel which Buonaparte ha? evinced a de- : w;
• termination to promote with the Grand Lur
Duke of Tufcany ; and there can be little j T
ddubt that in this step, they are influenced an
by two motives. First, to extend, as far |tr
as may be, their revolutionary principles ; lo
and feenndly, to obtain resources for conti- th
nuing the war with this country, in the e- f"
vent of their being able to carry their point S.
at Paris, and, consequently, to persevere in re
their demands of such immoderate and dis
honourable terms as it will be impofiible for li<
us tn accede to.
The difference of conduft obserVed by the 31
direftory during the last negociation at Pa- Is
ris, and during th£ .present negociation at
Lille, affords a clear proof that they dare
not make known to the nation the conditi
ons they fcave prescribed. They have inva- n
riably treated with open contempt all the ef- t<
tablifhed rules of diplomacy, and therefore "
it is ridiculous to suppose any regard for the 1
preservation of those rules would (way them J
in the smallest degree. They are aftuated 1
exclilfively by interest ; whatever they think I
will tend to promote their own purposes,
they will be sedulously promulgated ; and
whatever they are of opinion will have a
. contrary effedl, they will as sedulously con
. ceal. The sentiments of the people of France 1'
and of the majority of the Council has been
I too openly declared to admit of a doubt.— 1
These are friendly to the conclusion of peace
[ upon fair and equitable terms. To such t
[ terms our miniders have offered to accede ; t
. if, therefore, the negociation (hould We si- J
. nail off, the whole blame mull at- 1
r tach to the Dire&ory.
Admiralty OJfice, August 5. (
: Copy of a letter from captain Henry Wray, f
B commander of his majelly's (loop Sea- c
s gull, to Evan Nepean, Esq. dated July
e »3» 1797» at sea - '
1 Sir,
. You will be pleased to inform their lord- 1
e (hips, that after a chace of three hours, I
1 ; Chriftianfand bearing N. by W. ten or >
eleven leagues, the King George cutter in 1
a company, I captured the Captain fhurot,
. j a small French cutter privateer, carrying 1
_ 2 brass fix-pounders, 4 swivels, and 22 men
s She had taken on this coast, the (hip Tom, 1
of Liverpool, from Riga, with timber, and
tbe Brig Bachelor, of Salcoats, in Scot- -
land.
' I have the honor to be, &c.
y , HEN. WRAY.
Admiralty Office, ■'■ugujl 5.
d Ccpy of a letter from vice admiral Kingf
,f mill, commander in chief of his majef
tv's (hips and vessels at Cork, to Evan
Nepean, Esq. dated L'Engageante, Cork
harbour, July 25, 1797-
1- SlR >
Please to inform my lords commiflioners
1. of the admiralty, that having intelligence
0 of a small privateer being off Bally Cotton,
r> I sent out lieutenant Pulling, in the Mary
jf revenue cutter, in quest of her, and in a
3 . few days he fell in with the Beresford reve
ff nuc brig, coming from Waterford, jult as
a . (he had captured" the said privateer, a chaffe
c . maree, namtd L*Acheron, of 28 tons, out
l c of Merlaix, carrying I carronade eight
ile pounder and 6 swivels, and 4 0 men. She
n, is just arrived here, and had taken three
in vessels, all of which I underlUnd are re
ce captured.
n, I have, tcc.
R. KINGSMILL.
[ t> Admiralty Office, Augujl 5.
of Ex trail of a letter from vicc-admiral Kingf
e(J mill, commander in chief of hii majesty's
yj. (hips and vessels at Cork, to Evan Ne-
IC I pean, Esq. dated L'Engageante, Cork
j a l Harbour, July 29, 1797-
he Please to inform my lords commifiioners
re . of the admiralty, that his majesty's (hip
rm Doris arrived here yesterday with a fine
3 . (hip privateer, of 22 guos, (he has captured.
e r S Inclosed is lord Ranelagh's letter to me on
m . the fubjedl. , „
Deris, off the Old Head of
,l t- ' Kin/ale, July 28.
[fa- Sir, _
-en Since my lass informing you of the re
ler capture of the Santa Patroma and Noftra
on- Scnora da Concucao, two valuable Portu
be- gueze Brazil (liip.s, I beg leave to acquaint
I you, that in latitude 47 deg. 42 mm. N.
longitu<|e 9 <3eg« 5,7, niin. I chafed coal
anii captured Le Duguai i roiiin, a FrencTi f to c
fliip of 20 fix-ponnders and 2 twelve-pounci- was
ers, matin ed with 127 men, oyt foyr days I
from Naqtes, and had taken nothing ; as . tem
■lifual, the .guns were thrown overboard. ; diffi
Le Duguai Tirtuiu is a remarkable fine riiid fevt
fall failing vefTel. On her last cruise (lie , the
took the Sandwich packet of I'akn.ou'th. wot
I am, scc. ■ crit
R'ANELAGH. ity
Vice-admiral Ki.ngsmh V, & c * ass
nnf
VIENNA, July 19- wit
Our Court Gazette of this day contains aba
the following article : from the fame mo- a 1
tives which induced his imperial majesty to fho:
order the general jn chief bf the army bf nin
Inner Auftriato march a detachmjfit ofim- wit
perial troopp into the Venetian of Iftria, mei
he has also directed to detach„.iliotht?- corps wit
into Dalmatja, the inliabit^iiti' bf which did lig(
not seem inclined to takf a'lliare in.the re- ing
volution effeited at Venice. In consequence ten
of these orders, corps of troops, com
manded by generaU' Rukavina and Lufig- pes
nan, and.by cbloncl Cafimir, were embark- the
ed at Trieft and Fi|amc 011 board two squad- tjvi
rons, which set fail on the 25th of June— by
The Trieft fquadrnn having been dispersed pu
by a storm off Rorignb, gen Rukavina made for
with some ships the bay of Fafana, but the cia
greatest part of the squadron was obliged to nu
%to between Rovigno and Oviedo. The !ly
wind continuing foul until the 2d of July, tec
the squadron was not able to get under weigh thi
: again before that day. Colonel Cafimir, nic
whose 'corps, confiding of 3 battalions of tie
foot and some horse, was embarked at Fi- ph
ume, met with more favorable winds ; he
lauded at Zara 011 the 29th of June, and of
: was received by the inhabitants with the most cit
.unequivocal Jemonfrations of joy. The fr<
Trieft flotilla failed again on the 2d of July, an
and reached Zara on the sth, where the fta
troops were difembarked under the ah
lbudeft acclamations of joy on the part of an
the inhabitants. General Rukavina was de- th
fired to march the next following day to eh
Srbenico, Spalatro, Cliffa, and Siger, the j fp
refnlt of .which march is not yet knbwn. in
Affcbrding £b the repbrt of field marffial , h(
lievtenant Lerpen, he has likewise extended J w
his position nearer to the Venetian territory, j th
and manned and armed, several vefTehon the : aj
lake of Garda. al
fn
PARIS, July 29. at
The Redafttur has at last officially an- ' pi
nounced the appointment of the new minis- b(
ters. On the 28th Meffidor the following tl
were nominated : ci
Francois de Neufchateu, Interior. bl
Plevelle Pellay Marine &Colbnie«. oi
Talleyrand Perigord, Foreign Affairs. tl
Lenoir La Roche, General Police. J
5 Thermidor.
[ Scherer, War.
8 Thermidor.
The executive directory decrees as sol
: Ibws : j
1 The refignatibn of citizen Lenoir La ■"
. Roche, minister of police, is accepted.
; Citizen Sotin, commissioner bf the execu-
I tire pbwer in the central bf
; the department of the .Seine, it appointed .
. minister of the general police of the repub
. lie. Carnot, President.
Lecarde, Sec'ry General.
No notice if taken of the reported change
of Ramel antl Merlin, and we may there
, .fore presume that they remain in the offices
.of finance and juftiee. - 1 |
■f The Eclair gives the following chara&er
of Sotin, the new minister bf police. j -
Citizen Sotin 4 an able man, and the , J
- more so as he loves business. Tho' young, ' '
~ he has the faculty of forrfceing events ; but |
r unfortunately for him he is carried away by I
II his love sf pleafuvq. Admir.iftrator of La .
, Loire Inferieurt, and sent to the revolution- ,
r ary tribunal by Carrier, lrt had the good for- j ■
tune to escape ; but he remained some time 1 ;
1, out of employment, or in the simple quality
d of a clerk in the capital, the grand theatre
> of the chances of fortune. In Vendemiaire
he fore fa w the triumph of the cbnventibn
over the whole nation. Tha courage, which
some call imprudence, with ifchich he flood
forward, the only conventional orator in his
fe&ion (that of the theatre Francais) pro
f- cured him the appointment of administrator
f- of the departmeut, then accompUsnt, then
n commissioner of the dircftovy to the fame ad
k ministration, and at last minister of police;
for the cannon of Vtrdemiaire then appoint
ed to many places,
rs The difmifliou of Lagarde is spoken of as
:e a thing fettled. M. Bertaux of the depart
n, ment of the Moselle, is tb replace him.
-y It is reported that Garat has fought a
a duel with Henri Lariviere.
e- Twelve carriages, laden with gun-powdeV
as have been blbwn up by accident passing thro'
[Te the village bf D'Eftein by which 42 inhabi
ut tants, men, women and children, have been
it- killed, and 40 houses destroyed, See.
iie In Cbnformity to the resolution of the
ee council of Five Hundred, fan&ioned by
:e- the concils of Ancients several hafls, clubs,
reading cabinets, and circles of couverfation
have been Ihut up.
BALTIMORE, September 13.
Yesterday morning, about the hours bf
7 {"_ " seven and nine o'clock a most daring attempt
,'s • was made to murder and rob the servant of
Je- Mr. James Carrell, as he was passing on
,rk horfebaek, from Perry-liall to this city—He
j was , aocofted by a, 6nglt nwin on- foot,
ers ' abont 8 miles from, town, on the new Belle
rip • Air-road, near the Springs,, and de
ine fired to flop; -his he refufed to do; the
cd. | robber immediately fired a gun, the ball
on from which paHei thro-ygh the hat of the
servant without doing him any injury.—As
of nearly as can bf remembered, the following
is a description of the person who made the
attemptHe is about 5 feet 7 inches high,
re- of a fair complexion, aud appears to be
flra 1 young and fprightiy ; had on a white
•tu- i fhbrt vellow firipe< gingham coaftee, white
lint | dimity waiftcbat, trousers birtoned clof'ely
,N. round his anclsi, aed ' f ftufFlike his
cOattee—4t Is fuppbfed .that his object wa<!
to obtain the horse on which, the ferjrant j *
was riding. r "-<
In consequence of the above daring at- ic f
terrrpt a number of gentlemen belonging to liev
different troops of cavalry, accbmpaned by be
| several other gentlemen on horfebaek, under j
ihe command of captain Samuel Hollings- Tsi
worth, turning out, with the greatest ,ala- inti
crity, and scoured the country in the vicin- pof
ity of Belle Air and Philadelphia roads, on
as far as thirteen miles from this city, but, dif;
unfortunately, without success. They met i"etl
with two little boys on the Belle-Air road, die
about 8 miles from the city, who had seen <
a man answering the above, description (a t'na
ihort time after the attempt was made) run- fto'
njng Rcrdfs the wood toward the other road, otl
with a gun tin his shoulder. The troop im- ed,
mediately pursued the direfted course, but '.n
without being able to gain any further intel- fut
ligcnce. It is supposed the villain in lurk
ing Philadelphia road with an in
tention to intercept the maij stage. '
It is ardently tb be wished, that the re-
peated attempts that have been made within
these two weeks past, may induce th« execu- wa
tivp of Maryland to adopt some mode where- Ju
by those daring villains may be brought to Cr
punishment. It has now become dangerous
for a single person to travel the road, espe
cially unarmed ; and when we read of the
numerous accounts of robberies, &t. recent- h»
ly committed in different parts of the Uni- th:
ted States, tUere cannot remain a doubt that
there are a band.of ruffians having commu
nication with each other, who infeft the ci- Fr
ties and country adjacent for the fake of a ]
plunder. '"1
There is no doubt but the villain is one
of a nest nsw secreted and lurking in the 1 t)|
city of Baltimore, intending to carry on J |; c
from thence their outrages against the peace I nf
and quiet of society, as favourable circum- pr
stances may occur. A fellow answering the
above description was seen last evening about j c
an hour by fun, in a thicket of bushes, on | ; n
■ the country feat of Philip. Rogers, efq- An let
' women who had occasion tb gb to a
: j spring.'and found him concealed and lying j
!in the bushes. He asked her if a trobp of
I hbrfe had not gone out in fcarch of a robber
I j who had fired on a travellor; (he answered r
, that (he had heard nothing of the kind; but la
: ' appearing agitated, he told her not to be | d<
alarmed; he intended her no injury and de- I
fired her to take up her water, go home, p .
and not mention that she had seen any I
- person; he immediately rose and made the
- best of his way off; a pursuit was made by a
j the family but without success. If the exe- j
• I eutive of Maryland should offer a confidera- ''
ble reward, there is no doubt but some one I P
. of the gang would turn evidence and bring a
the reft to merited punishment. j
~%f)t dsa3ette*
PHILADELPHIA,
j SATURDAY EVENING, September 16.
8 l CITY HOSPITAL
, From the 15th to i6thSept. in themorning. I
f Admitted, since last: report,
Robert, (negro) 47, Union street.
Richard Davis, 14 Chancery lane.
Wm. Cooper, South street. I i
j Eliza Gibfon, PafTyunk road. i
r ' e Alex. Fowler, Fowler's in Vernon street,
' ; between South & Shippen street. t
e j Eliza Vager, Christian, below Water and ;
I Front llreet, t
£r ! Discharged since last report.
, Jacob Beauconell, admitted 9th.
Ie Muna Lift, 4 t^1 -
• ' Sarah Ellis, s^"
I Nancy Cline, "d ult. , ;
| Died, since last report,
Christian Schuyltz—admitted nth
1 Henry Snyder nth
' John Lvnden llt ' l
* ; Eliza Gibfon—ten hours after admission
' ' Thomas Marshall 9 tu
Ben (a Negro) . 4 - j
■ [vs George Wilkins 13 1 ' 1
Remaining last Report 5 6 j
0( j Admitted flnce, "I,
liß . 62
Discharged 4 I.
Died 7 11
en ' I
'. . . . . T Cbnvalefcents 9"J
e; Remain inHbfpital, -J 4 2 J I
II Interred in City Hbfpital burying ground
since last report :
t ' S Frbm the city and suburbs 1
From the city hbfpital 7
: a - Total 8
v Stephen Girard,
(Signed) Caleb Lownes,
f? ° John Connslly.
D '" Published by order of the Board,
:en Wm. MONTGOMERY,
Chairman pro tem.
The sick at the Hospital being in need
• „ offhirts, fhifts and other linens, such bene
-1011 volcnt persons as are disposed to fend any,
will please leave them at the City I~L-.11.
Oat ilraw is alio much-wanted, and will be
f thankfully received at the Hospital, and
npt paid for if required.
of """""
' Totals of lpiria!s for 24 hours, ending yejlcr
tt day at noon.
Gro<vn Pcrfoni. Cliildr-n.
) " t ' Christ Church I
tl'e St. Mary's I 1
de- Friends 1
tl ie German Lutheran • x ®
hall Bapliits I 0
City Hospital* 14 0
ICer i 0
-As
File, safnr<llbury>'ng"j)
, ing ground apprpptiatcii >
the iorthe uft of 1 family jo 1
Sj 1 ' Total 20 3
De * Seven of tb-fr from the city.
Murricf," on Tuefoay ercr.iajr, at Trenton, l»y
she Rev. Mr. Arm!!rrra;r, B- njamin ITn
'fely li.\p.ton, te Mist MotLV Penninoton, loth of
his t'htl.ic e'phi*. , . ;
Wh 1 1 ithere are so tria uy di sco rda ft t b pin laffl
reajative to the origin of tlie present epidcrrn
ic fever, the following relation which.-), b?»
liVve can be fatisfa&orily proved, may not
be unworthy of ftotitpe.
A young man who tVas clerk to Mefc,
Tarafcoft and Journcl, having occasion to gd
into a cellar in Penn street (where it is (hp
pofed some goods had been depofitcd from
on board the snow Navigation] found a rood
disagreeable ilench <; immediately upon his
return, he was seized with a Vomiting, and
died in two days afterwards.
Quere ? Is it not ijidifpenfatly necessary
that every place in which goods have been
stored, coming from on bo'ird that, or any
other vefTel, conje&ured to have been infect
ed, (hould b? ftr?6lly examined and purified*
in order to prevent as much as pofiible, any
future circulation of the dif:afe ?
a subscriber.
At the late Commencement at Dartmouth college,
the excrcifes were judiciously chosen and reputably
executed. The graduates wtae 30 in number.
The a. m. 26. The «Jegt*ee of Doitor df Laws,
was con errec! on the Hon Oliver Mlfwcrch, Chic?
Julie of rhe U.S. Hon. Nathaniel Chipman*
Chief Jußice of Vermont.
On the sth Jul)' it was announced in Paris, and
majde a very confiicrable ferf.ition? that Buona
parte, in a letter to the dire&ory. slated that he.
had seen with great tineafmcT the dilatory fptrftqrf
the court of •Vienna to'regard the definitive treaty ;
—that the jeal- ufy between the outriofts of the two
armies was daily fermenting into discord, and that
even ftfTua ails of hostility had talcefi place in the
Friuli. That in conference of this he had made
a prercmptory remcnftrance, i-iit entirely in th*
loyalty of pacific intention, which he had
will be effectual ; but if it {hould not, he informs
the citizen* directors tbat he i* prepared to force'
the emperor to fulfil his engagements to the repub
lic His army is more powerful than at the etiocli
of the armift : ce, since he has now removed all ap
prehenfiorsof attack by the powers of Italy, and
can bring all his force to on the hereditary
dominions of. Aufiria.
Such is the icport whi h we find by letters was
in circulation on WednefJay lafl in Paris; and this
letter of Buonaparte is spoken of with confidence.
—We have not seen it, however, and we cannot
speak of tkis news from any authentic source of in
• formation—Loni.paper.
Died, at Charlcfton, Cunningham Sample
Ramsay, a. m. of the university of Pennsylvania,
latterly a teacher of languages in the associated aca
; demy of this city; a young gentleman of the mod
amiable manners and promising talents, beloved ISy
his acquaintances, and highly esteemed by those
' parents whose children w«re under his tuition.
r
* # * Any articles ef moderate length left
at this office before 1 o'clock, will be insert
ed on the fame day. Beyond this hour the
• paper cannot be delayed—as Four Hundred
; and Fifty papers mufl be Jlruck off, to be
difp'atehed out of the City, by 3 o'clock.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Pour of Philadelphia.
Arrived at the Fort.
Sch. Flying Fish, Maxwell, Jamaica
New Tork, September iy.
ARRIVED. DAYS.
Brig Fame, Lyall, Madeira 58
Schr. Fair American, Lagan, East Shore 7
Sloop Endeavour, , Norfolk 8
The Two Friends failed from London on
the 23d of July, and left the land on the
d Bth of brings no papers later
than July 25, which she got at Plymouth.
The others had long passages.
The fliip Port Mary is fafe arrived at
Liverpool, after a paflage of 28<days.
The ship Argus is arrived at London,
after 24 days passage.
Baltimore, September: 14.
I'/as spoke .on the Grand Bants, ship Geo.
Washington, Dtnn Jun,from Baltimore, out IJ
days, bound to Rotterdam.
Arrived this day, fchr. John Fining, M'
• Connel, 32 days from Martinique—Lat. 37,
30, long. 72, was boarded by the French pri
vateer Lefpisgle, capt. Barns, who plundered
capt. M' Connel of a watch, all his own peo
-6 pie's clothing, and every thing else he could
conveniently carry off. Lat. 37, 30, long.
)2 69, 30, tjpole brig Ruth, Town/end, from
Brifol, bound to Rhode IJland.
; 1 A/o arrived, barque Amphion, capt. Schi
— lichort, 9 weeks from St. Übes—Salt—Dwer
j j hagen & Grovermsn.
Arrived yederday—Schooner Syren, Lilly,
28 days from Jacquemel.
Communicated by captain Chafe.
July 27, failedfrom the Downs in company
•with the FaSor of New-Tori, and several o
ther vessels.
Augujl 4, took my departure from the Scilly
D > I/lands. On the night of Augufl sth, the wea
ther being thick and fqaally, Scilly bearing N.
E. df covered a ship under our lee, within
half gunshot, which made a signal by a falft
fire, but fading we did not answer it, she im
mediatelyfred a broadside at us, some of her
fiot Jlruck close to us, and some went over us ;
-id after which she hove about and gave chafe, fr*
nc " ing her bow. chafes for a.length of time, when
>y. after aboutfvt hours ehace. df covering our fu
— periorfailing, she gave up the chafe.
be Sept., 3 ,fpoif brig Ann, of and from Phila
md delphia, bound to Hamburg, out 7 days. '
Two ships are in the river bound up,
names unknown.
ler- _
Norfolk, Sept. 9.
rjn. ' The fefeooner Federal George;, arrived
herelaft Thursday from Boston.—was board
ed on Sunday by a French privateer {choos
er of 6 guns, about 30 leagues N. E. of cape
Henry.
A schooner from Salem, arrived yefter
dap, was chafed 30 hours by a privateer
fcliooner, supposed to be the fame by the
cjcfcription.
By a gentleman who arrived here yester
day in the fchobner Sally, capt. Qrummor.d
in 36 hours from New-York f we are in*
' formed, that three French privateers are off
L T "r Sandy Hook, and have captured fevers'l in
-1 ' ! w .rd bound vefTel*.tfvt dollars rMaßd>
AN away from the fubferiber, an indented
Servant Girl, named Nancy Anderson, a
kout twenty ot age, short, thjclc set person,
With.fliorf black hair \ had on when (he went awjay,
a dark calico gown, an old black silk cloak, ai)ti a
V Uck fur |iat. Wtpevr.r wil! secure said girl, and
pvc jidormation thereof to tfce fubferiber, No. a,
Gieenk f alley, or to the oftice of this Gazette,
iTC'ivt: the above reward.
All are forbid harboring said girl, as,
they wii! be dealt with sis the law dije<sls
MARY'ANDERSON,
X. B. Said Girl is from Ireland, and has been in
this country btif a fljort time ; she was ft at to tho
wi r K-hoiffe for mifconduft, where Hie was taken
sick and removed to the crty-hofpitsl, from which
place she made her escape.
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the tigheft bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Queen, m the city of Baltimore, on the 15th
day of OiSober next, at ri o'clock, A. M
About seven thousand acres of land,
.the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lyi'hg between Reifter's-town and Wettminfter,
commonly called Little Winibefter, (the turn
pike road runs through a confidarable part of
tbefe lands) the traft begins ab&ut 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
of said Reifter's-town, and extends to the dil
f.mce of a!x»ut twenty-three utiles from Balti
more, and l ; es on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from **trec to four miles thereon. v\ ill
he fold in tracts of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion ef meadow and wood kind on each trail,
fome,of them highly improved, *with excellent
buildings fine grjfs.
At so , • ,
A tratt of faven hundred acres of
l?.od, called Clovrr Farms, withhl five miles of
BladenflMjrg, esteemed very good for Grass.
Ricbard Ponfonby,of Bladenfburgh, will (hew
this (and to any person inclined to purchase.
also,,
A traft of land ©f about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a half o! the President's house in the .Fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpe<3'« fron. which may be fceH the
city of Washington, Bladenftmrgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and «nany miles
down the Potomac rfaer. Mr. Richard Poiifon-
Jjy, ps Bladenfburg, will alfa (hew this land.
' A Miberal credit will be given far the greatcft
part of the purchase money, i'he terms will
ie_ made known on the day «f sale.
May 8 wtm_
Just K eceived,
From Batavia (via Providence)
a few Boxes of Spices, cocfifting o(
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
For sale by •
HILLINGS & FRANCIS, *
Penn. street.
May 30 dtf
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING busied for fomc time pad in prepara-
for removing into his prd'ent house, has
been uni)cr theneceffity of poftponinguntil this day
informiig the gentlemen of the Bar genefally thro'
(he Unite/ States, that h's spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for tale, on
termsthat he trofts will enritlehim to the like pre
freencc he has experienced for Rveral years past.
Catalogues, combining the most varied collec
tion eVrr imported i/tto this country, are printad
and will he delivered on application.
June" if. 'law 6w
. City Commijfioners' Cffice,
Junt-ii, 1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the feledl
and commpn councils, pafied the lid day of
May lad, appointing the city commifliofteri,
and prescribing their duties, feilion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five
each to be under the fuperintendance of one of
the city commissioners, whoisto be individually
relponfible for the cleaulinefs of the fame, and
arc as follow.
Driftriil No. I. From the south IWe of Ce
dar-llrcet, to the north fide of Spruce-street, un
derthe fuperistendence of Nathan Boys.
2. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
the north fide of Walnut-flreet, under the fuper
jntendence of Hugh Roberts.
3. From the north fide of Walnut to thefouth
fide of High-street, under the superintendence ot
Jnfeph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-street, to the
north (idi* of Mulberrj' street, under the fuper
intendeiKesf William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulherry-ftreet to
the north fide of Vine-ftrcet, tinder the fuper
intendenc* of Nicholas Uicks.
The cleaningof High-street to be in common.
Aftated meeting of the city commifiion
era is held at the Old Cmirj House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at s o'clock.
July t/j. eoim
Stands for Draymen, &c.
In purfuanet of an Ordinance from tbeSelefl and
Common Councils, Bearing date the itd day of
/lfiril, 1797, providing for the appointme.it of
City Commijfioners, tSc. Heft, the 13th.
r "P , HE following places are fixed upon by the
A said City Commiffipnert for Stands for
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-flreet, eastward of Front-street, on
both fides.
Saflafras, High, ChefnNt and Walnut-fttreets,
eastward of Front-street, on the no.'th fide only.
Mulberry-street, fauth fide from Front to
Third-street.
Front-ftre*, east fide Mm Vine-street to
Elfrith's alley.
Front-street, from oppiofite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Water-street, weft fide from the north end of
Stumper's or Moore's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce-iar-ttreet, weft
fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street,
Spruce, Pine and South streets, e»U of Frost
street, foutTi fide.
Dock-street, between Walnut-street and the
flag ftor.e froffings, call fide, opposite George
OrkUy's.
Second-flreet, between 3a(Turas and Vine
flreets, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry streets.
Safi'afras-llreet, from Third to Fourth-flreet,
east fide.
No dray or horse to stand within ten feet of
any pump.
STANDS FOR HACKNEY COACHES.
Pine-street, irorth fide from Fourth to Fifth
flreels. t
Fifth-ftreet, between Chefnut and Walnut
streets, weft. x
Branch-street, north fide,between Third and
Fourth streets.
July 14. mw&fim
A Literary Treat-.
y.ijt pullifhed, handfomtly printed on lulling
paper, price I dollar,
A new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, entitled
THE FORESTERS, an American Tale ; being
a fequcltothe hiltory of John Bull, fhnClo !
thier—ln aferiesof letters to a friend, with the ad
dition of two letters, alluding to receiit political
,! tranfti&ioni' in America. t t
The following ejtrailfrOm the Clavis Allegories,
(hews the principal characters that arc JntHjduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of tngland
Hi. of England
His Wife, the Parliament
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick. Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom of France
His Miftreft, the Old Constitution
His Hew Wife, the National Representation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spiin
v Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic
The Ferefteri, the United States of America
Robert Lumber, New-Hamp(hire
John Codline, Mafiachul'etts
Humphrey H>>wfluie, Conne&icut
Roger Carrier, Rhode Island
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
Julius Cscfar, N'ew-Jerfey
i Wdliam Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
Caflimar, Delaware
Walrer Fipewood, Virginia
His Grandson, George Walhingten
Peter Pitcb, North Carolina
Charles Indigo, Soutk Carolina
George Trully, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter LongAiife, Kentucky
BVck Cattle, Ncgrp Slaves
Rats, Speculators >
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
.{S* This popular and entertaining fatiricalhift#-
ry of Amorica is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel
knap. It hasa great share of originality and a
bownds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, ind charauierifes those
late political tranfaiftions which have caused so
much uncafinefs in Amdrica.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Baokfeller, No. 16,
South Second Street, and No. 50, Marke* ftjeet.
June 16. §
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Edition*.
H. is? P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. ?o, Market street,
HAVE just received by the kte arrivals Jrom
London and Dublin, their spring importa
tion, confiding of a variety of the latelt and most
approved 1 .aw Books, which, added to those alrea
dy oil hand, forms the most extensive collection ev
er offered for sale in this country. They theiefore
beg leave to notia, that from the their
conne&icnsin Dublin, they are enabled to felllrifh
editions (as they have hitherto done) it the very
lowest prices. The following are among the la Left
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1 vj.t.
Peake's Cases at Nisi Priiis ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwicka ; Flayer's Procters
Pradice in the Ecclesiastical Courts; Barton's
Trcatife on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Practice of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal Adtions, a
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, l» vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rtc* expeA ta receive by tliCyfirft ar
rival from Ncw-Yerk the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, the ad part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
_ June 16.
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the preft, and will be published,
with all convenient expedition, by ZtCHA-
RtAH Poulson, jun. No. ?0, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library;
according to A)e printed proposals, until the
work is ready for the fubferiberj.
July 18. lawtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Chefnut-Strcet,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS Beatly assorted, very low on
(hort credit.
March 6. §
Richard, and James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
4J, South Fifth-ftrcet.
August z. w&f6t
Lancaler, Harrifbvrgb Carlijle,
Sb'ppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requested to take notice, that
the partnership which has f»r some timl fob
fifted between Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now dissoLved ; but, as.M.
Slough infiniiatesto thepublic without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the l'ub
je<3 from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of tfhich is not now deem
ed necelTary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal «f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfedlly juftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tb« liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
thi3 huGnefs, VTilliam Geer, in conjunction with
Messrs,. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horf:n, and every appurtenance to
render the paflage fafe and commodious, inform
those wno wish. to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
parlille and Shippol fburg. The fare as hitherto
eftabliftied.
For the further/ accommodation ot the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, ih Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from theoce and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that passengers deftincd for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed oa Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan.V?, X 797.
N. B This Line ef Stages starts from ths
house of William Ferroc, in Lancaster, on every
Tue'day aud Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrrfburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in' i;s lour from Philadel
phia.
City of Wiifliing'tori.
sCH E M E
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For tht Improvemant of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwelling-hbufe JOiOOodolUrs,
& cadi 3ti,000, ire 50,000
1 ditto 15,00® & eifli »5,oo» 40,00®
J ditto 15,001? Se r.a(h 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 Sc. citb ia,t>oo 10,000
I ditto i,Qou & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 io/ioo
1 cash prize of ro.ooo
do. 5,000 each,are « 10,000
10 do. i,OOO - - 10,00 c
10 do. 500 : - 10,000
00 do. 100 - • 10,000
»no do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. 45 - . 10,000
IiOOO do. »a.. - 10,000
15,00® do. ' ,t© - J5©,000
ha 0
16,739 Prizes.
3.3,261 Blanks.
53,000 Ticket!, at Eight fi-ollsrs, 400,000
N. B. Toflvour thofewbo may fake a quan
tity ot Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but oni :
And approvednot'.s, feeuring payment in either
mon»y or prises, in-ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen »f
the private buildings to be ert'Sed in the City of
Waibington—Two beautiful deigns are
icledled for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawings it ispropofed toereft
two centre and f our corner bmildings.as soon aspof.
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five percent, will
be made to defray the neccfiary expenl'es of print
ing, &c. and the surplus vill be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Univetfity, to
be etedled within the city of Walhington.
The real fecnriticsgiven for the paymmt of the
Prizes, are held by the Prcfident and two Dire<sl
ori of the Bonk of Colur.bia, and are valued at
more than half tbc amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
,§, Tickets may be had at the Bank fel Colum
bia ; of James Weft &~Co. Baltimore: of Peter
Gilman, Byfton ; of John Hfpkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry.
*" mwf
From tie Ot/ego Herald.
CAUTION.
WHF.REAS a eombinaiion of men in this
county have undertaken to enrich tham
felves.bjr fabiicating titles to sundry valuable trads
of land, the property of gentlemen living in New
Yotk, Philadelphia, London and Paris, for which
trails of hod large sums of money have been paid
to th»fe fraudulent men, by innocent purchasers •
It is therefore just thrt public information should
We given, to the end, that the injured may feckrc
drefs while the men have property, and are to be
found. Those who have be«u discovered are Tru
man Harrifon, Joseph Witcomb, said now to re
side in the county ofSaratoga ; Thomas Kelly and
fevcral others who go under fictitious names. It is
supposed that the lands offered f r sale on those fa
bricated titles, are at lead worth fifty thousand
dollars. Such as we have ailual knowledge of are
as follows : Lots No. II and l», Otfego patent,
thousand acres each, the a<3ual property of William
Dellwyn, now of London ; lots No. 58 and 64,
fame patent, thousand acres each, the property of
Mr. Chaumont, now of Paris, and James Averill
and others, ot tlsii State. There is some grounds
to suppose that the lands of Richard Welis and
Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their
management.—The Winters witl do well to giv«
this a place in their papers, as well to caution the
public against purcbafing those lands, as also to de
prive those men in future from imposing oh indivi
dual, which their education and address have en
abled them to do heretofore. Witcomb has been
a Ihopkeeper of some note in this tountry.
The following affidavits will fct in a clear point
of view tht wickedness of those men, which whan
the public have perused, will induce them to ex
cuse the interference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July 28th, 17^7.
I Thomas Kelly, of the County of- Otfego, hav
ing been led into an error, by John Witcomb and
Truman Harrifon, of the fame County, to iign a
deed to them, for lot No. 58, Otfego patent, which
was the property of William T. Franklin now Mr.
Chamont's and others ; »nd further the said Joseph
and Truman did persuade me to do this against my
inclination, which was made out on the leth day
of November, 1793, or set back two years so as
to bring it to that time ; and further the name of
Pardon Starks to that deed was a fictitious name,
there bciag no-inch perton there. To this I make
voluntary oath. • THOMAS KELLY.
19th July, 1797.
On the 19th July, 1797, came personally before
me, Thomas Kelly, thefubfenber to the above af
fidavit, and made solemn oath that it contains noth
ing but the truth.
ELIHU PHINNEY, Juftjcc of the P W e.
On the lßth Ju'y, I?*?;, came before me Jacob
Kibby, a perton l>y me well known and worthy.of
good credit, w(ip 011 his fotcmn oath did fay, that
two of the parties abovementioned did make ap
plication to him this deponent, font's time in the
winter*tof 1796, to make there a deed for tw® tha»-
sand acres of land in the Otego patent, and pro
mised this deponent a fhsre cii the profits, on the
sale of said lands, for his so doing ; and that they
made application fevcral tinftrfor thqfame purpo.e,
which IWrvices this deponent as often refufed, de
claring to them that he had no right to lands, and
eouldao no such thing ; which daring attempt on
this deponent's integrity he ha 3 related among his
friends fevcral times, previous to making this affi
davit, JACOB KIBBEY.
Sworn before me,
ELIHU PHINNEY, Jufticeof the Peace.
Aug. 3. iaw4w.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
ELOPED from the service vf the fubfefiber,
on the 19th a'nrsrro man by the
name of DICK, about twenty-five years of age,
and five feet nine or ten inches high ; by trade
a carpenter, and is a very liv.ety brisk work
man. His countenance is very good—When
spoken to, he converses with ease and confi
dence, and is pretty fagaciout. I purchased
the said fellow of Mr.Dubney Minor, in yhofe
name he has been advertised in the Richmond
newfpapcrs. .During his last runaway *rip (last
summer) he was employed 4 cotifiderable length
of time, by tome person ne.v Dumfries, from
which eircupittance, I co/ijedlure, he has taken
another not?icm route -1 f'orewarm all pel lons
from giving him employment, of any kind
whatever, and maftersof vefleUaod others, from
carrying him out of thi» state. The above re
ward will begivtnifhe is taken within forty
miles 0/ this city; and an additional sum, in
proportion to the distance he may be brought,
or the trouble and expence the apprehender may
be at, infringing him to this place.
AUG; DAVIS.
N. B. His apparel was of the usual negro kind,
but he had more deaths (ban is ct*llomary for
them to poffel's.
A.D.
Richmond, June it, 1797-
Wiil be Larideci,
From oa board the fliip AAive, Capt.i2i.Aii .from
Hamburgh,
10 bales white RuiTia clean licmp
i calks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffcr,
NorthFi/th (facet, N«. 14.
Tune a"6.
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 south Second street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. If, w&ich
commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as tht* drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dolors each, on the last day of
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination and register
ing, in the Canal, No. -2, City of Washington, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteri«s.
Also, tickets for sale irl the Schuylkill bridge and
Perk omen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the course of the summer.
The business of a Broker ig all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &c. tranfa&ed with the
utmost attention.
_ June a tu&f _
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes and Confequen
"cts of theprefent War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Ekskine. "
May ij J
STATE TRIALS.
Sold by W.Young, Bookseller, No. s*, South S«-
cond-ftrect,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acquit
al of Francis Hopkinfcn, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in board*, 3
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general assortment of
Books. Also, Stationary,retail ana by the pack*
ege, well aflortei, and entitled to the drawback il
axporftcd. J«ly 7 —•
1~?HE SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
J. the Envoy Extraordinaiy and Minitier Pleni
potentiary of his Britannic Majesty, General Agent
fair a (Tilling Briiiih creditors, and such particular a
gents as they may specially authorite, in prosecuting
their claims before the commiflioners for carrying
to effctt the sixth article of the Treaty of Amity t Com
tneru and Nd-vigation between his Britannic MajeJly and
the United States §f America, hereby flives notice that
he has opened his office at his house the south eait
corner of Chefnut and fifth streets, Philadelphia,
where be is ready to receive all claims or inftru&ious
for claims with the voucbeis aud documents thereof,
for % the.purpofe of bringing forward the fame agree
ably so the rule* and orders which the board may
think proper to prescribe.
And as it will be for the interest of all concerned,
that the several claims be so dated, and support
ed, as to prevent the delay which would arise from
the necefHtyof obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials,from perlons refidtng at a distance,
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the
direction chiefly of those, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the prosecution of
their claims to his charge and management) that all
such claims ought in particular to fct forth—
tft. The proper description and fitnation of the
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, reipe&-
ively.
ad. The date andnature of the original contrail or
debt.
3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant was prevented or impeded,
by the provision, operation or icfett of law, the
decifionsajid practice of courts, or restraint of exe
cution, from leeoveriog payment of the debt in
qucftiorx \
4th The loss and damage incurred or sustained,
in consequence of such impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen from the infolveney, change of
iatuation, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from lanfe of time, or othercanfes impairing
the value and lecurityof the debt, which would not
have so operated if such impediments had noiexilled.
And jth.. The particular grounds and reasons on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treaty, that 44 by the ordinary course of judicial pro
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain airti actually
have ami receive full and adequate compensation" for
the lofles and damages so fuftaiued. '
The general agent thinks it his duty further to sug
gest that the several claims ought to be accompanied
andfqpponed by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly attefled, both as to theaxifience
of the debts claimed, and such other circumflances
as may be within their own knowledge refpe&ively.
And wherever the claimants in Mating the aature of
their evidence (which mud in every instance be the
beftof which the cafe ic capable) have occasion to
refer to the testimony of witn^{Tes 9 it will be proper
to apprifathc general agent of the na.nes and places
of residence of such witoefTesand the fa&sto be etta
blifhed by their teilimony.
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June Bfti. 1797. d
For Sale,
That will known place, called Fandeoriit's
FIRIY,
ON Nelhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phila
ladelphia, on the New York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premises are a large two ft«ry flone house occu
pied as atvern, ,and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame liable with a good threlhing
floor, and forat out building!—alfo a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a most elegant situation fora gentle
man s feat, commanding a view of the Nelham
iny to its jundlion wiih the Delaware, and thence
across to the jtrfey lhore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from.the bridge.
For terms apply to the Snbfcriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
A'av 14. atawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpeft, returns lur sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he hat received during four years residence in
Philadelphia ; and allures her frieruls and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, (he has made a fupenor arrangement for
the more convenient accojnmodation of her
scholars.—Ever" branch of ufeful and polite
edueati«n is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and maftars excelling in their
refpedlive profeffinns.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June, oh, /797. Jimftf
ThtJimitiaii is perfeilly healthy ;
more agi ewblebyan extensive garden and lo*
of ground adjoining the houle.
Jujl Publijbed,
And to be had of Mcffrsi Dobfcn, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the ether prlcipal Bool,feller, in the
city,price one dollar, twi? /-five cents,ir boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, w. d.
Jane a®. "6t
i
St/iriS of Pttittjjlvaa::!,to wti'f.
j,. s. RVJ tiptoe, the
fifteenth day of Jane, in the tvrt/Wy
firft year of tlic Independence of the United
States of Artjericjtj Jam*S WOODHOVS , "f
the fa id rliftrifl, hath depoHted in thia o.Wthe
title of a book, the right whereof heeiaims as ■
author, in the words following, to wit :—-
* < Jie Young Cliemifi s Poeket Companion,
" being a Description of a Portable Labaratory,.
" containing a Phitofophica! apparatus, and a
" great number of Chemical Agents', by which
'• any perform an endless variety of
" amulinpand inftruaing Experiments, jlfcGgn
" ed for the use of ladies and gentlemen, and
" intended to promote the cultivation of the
" Science of Cherr.iftry in the United States of
" America. By Jami -s Wocdhouse, M. D.
" Profefibr of Chetniftry, in the University of
" Pennsylvania, President of the Chemical S'o
" ciety of Philadelphia, &e.
" At jirefcnt every thinfc that is not denomi
" puted Chemistry, is but a fmsli part of « fyf;
" tem of natHral knowledge.
Prieflly on dir."
In conformity to the aA of the Coogrefs of th*
United States, intituled, » AnaA for the eneour-:
agem*nt of Learning, by fecuringthe copies of
maps, charts, and books to the authors and pro
prietors of fuchcopies, during the times there
in mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of the
Diftrifl u? Pennfylv^nia.
J"'r 'B. djt—wstf
No. 18 8.
Dtjlrig of Pennfylvauia, t» wit ;
(i. s.) R E 1T REMEMBERED, that on the
XJ twwity sixth day of July, in tfie twen
ty second year of the independence of .the United
States of America, John Frnno, of the said dif
triA,hath deposited in ihisoffice the title ofabook,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in th«
words following, to wit :
Observations on certain documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of " The Hißory of the Unit
" ert States for the year 1796," in which the charge
" of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, ]- M
" Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
" Vv ritten by himfelf"'
In conformity to (he aA of theConjrefs of the.
Ucited States, entitnled, "An *& for theepcour
agement of learning, by feeuring the copies of
maps, charts and books to the autkors an<f propri
etors ®f such copies, during ths times therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk *f the Ihjlr.cl of JPennfylvania.
_ July *7- W4W
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT at June term, 1797, a petition vitas
prelented to the Court of Common Pleas,
held it Y«rk Town, in the State of Pennsylva
nia, at the inflance James Short, praying
the Court to supply a loft deed made by a cer
tain Andrew Hicksnluber, to Hugh Morrifoy,
James Morrifon, and John Sample, executors
to Hans Morrifon, deceased, for fix hundred
— aores of Land, situate in Menallrn
townlhip, ia the county of York .-—All per
son» who have any obje&ions to make to the ob
jeA of the fiid petitioa are desired to attend at
the Court House, in the town of York, on the
jth day of September next, ortherwife the loft
deed will be supplied.
JOHN EDIE, Clerk.
July 18. e«tSi
30 Dollars Reward. »
RAN away on Satuadny last, two indented Ser
vants, Cilford Dally, a mulatto boy, about 17
years of age, a flint light built aAive fellow, can
read and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
has a heavy countenanca; had on a fuftian coatee
and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine shoes &c.
Allan Hellons, a black man, about 24 years of
age, five feet seven or eight inches high, a thick set
cluiiiy built fallow, particularly about the breech";
had on a faiior's blue jacket lined with fwanlkin,
dark striped vest, fuftian tiowfers, high crowned
hat, caarfc (hoes, &c.; each of them had fcveral
fliirts and several other cloathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or I ? dol
lars for each, and reasonable charges, on delivering
them at No. 54, North Third-street.
The biack fellow is about a year from Ijwiis
Town, in the County of SuffVx, state of Defcu
ware, and has taken the boy with him.
July 31-. mtu&frw
To be SOLD or RENTED,
A LARGE 3 Story Brick House, on the
South fide of Filbert street, between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
veyor General's Office.
The Builcfing is 36 feet front and 35 feet deep,
the lot 110 feet deep, with the privilege of a nine
feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriage*
to turn in. The House is-not plastered, and
may be turned either into one, or two dwelling
Houses. It is suitable for a Urge Manufactory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
pofleffion wili be given,
Apply to No. in, Chefnut-Street.
Aug. 11. cod+t.
Mufual-lnjlrument Manufactory,
No. 167, Arch-Strtet,.
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable gra».d,
fid'-board, pier table and square piano Eo-rrr
maktrfrom i.endon, returns tharkrto his friends
and the public, fcr thcr liberal encouragement,
and hopes that by his aisi!uity and atrcmii n to ev
ery branch of his butnefs, to merit a continuance
of their favors. Pianofortes made on th» newest
and most approved plans, with prdaU, patent,
fwcll, and French harp flop, which heflatteis
himfelf will ue found on trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not superior tp any import
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any imtru
ment purcha/ed us him, il not approved of
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of MuGcal inflmments made,
uned, and rcpairec with the greatest
dispatch, and on the most reasonable tern?.', Us
ready money only.
Second bind Piano Fortes taken in exchange.
May 10. &»m.
Forty Dollars Reward. x
RAN away from the fubferiber 011 the fee
ond<Uyof thisinft. July, a Mulatto Mao,
named Will ifcwzer, about forty ye-ttof age,
five feet seven or eight inches high, rather
chunky made ;"had ou when he weut away, a
drab colored cloth coat, striped purple ti-qwferi
and jacket: It is probable he will change his
cloathes, as he took a number wish him. The
faiil fellow foi-naerly belonged to Mr. Charles
Blake of this place ; and it i-s expedled he his
madtk towards Jones's Netk, in the Delawart
State. —Any person appreiicndirg the feid fel
low, and ieciirtng hira so that I can get-jfllm a.
gain, fcall receive the above reward if taken
(3ut of tlje county, and Twenty Dollars if 111
the county, and all reafonabie charges if bro't
home. '
JESSE REED,
Queen Ana's County, Maryland.
July 3. ' W3t