cf tfjc Wi tilttM and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
A 7 UMBEJi 1572.j
SALES BY AUCTION.
Siatmi Sales
F»r DRY GOODS.
C Pontoon —Cdward Fox, No.
~ , j fbuth Front-flreet,
a 'j Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
(. South Front-street.
Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
T .<7 ir ' Auflton, No .73 fouA Front-street.
Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
(. 18.3 High-street.
*■•<*•> 5
i~, r , f Forenoon—Edward Fox.
Jbttrfda, } Afternoon—John Connelly.
p j ( Forenoon —Will .an# Shannon.
r, " a y 1, Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
For Savattnab,
v-t The faft failing ship,
SWIFT PACKET,
Patrick' Cribbiv, Master,
•*-7=J\" ow lying opposite the mouth j
of Frankfort! Creek, ius handsome accommoda- |
tions for pa (Fencers* and will Tail on or about ,
the 1 ft ofX)£lobtr.
For freight er ge apply to the maftervon
board, or of the fub'cribers at Erajikford, 51-2
from Philadelphia.
Na/bro & J. Frazier.
Fr.mkforfl, Sept. 18. dtlflfl.
F.r HAMBURGH,
r [""HE Copper Bottomed Ship j
FAVORITE. John
ifeyO-^'i ,jThompson, Miller, now at
, VTV ;jV Cjv.i Blight's wharf, fid wi'l be rei
• • •-iir c! 7 to take in on Monday next,
part of her cargo being engaged
and ready to goon board. The (hip is so well
known, that it is needless to deferibe her. She
is now in compleat order. For Freight of Pas
sage, please to applv *t Mr. Jeremiah Warder's
Compting Iloufe. No. 12, North Third street,
©r to the Master on bord.
August 30.
For SALE,
On board trie said Ship, Svredilh Ir6n, assorted
Hollow and WindcwGlafs, Demvjnhfis, Wrap
ring Paper for Sugar Refiners, Rugs of I 4 j
Quality. • Please to apply as above.
wficm4w
White Havanna Sugar.
1461 boxes'* of very fuperiorquafcfy now cifcharg
-7< hhds. , ing from the (hip Hamburgh Packet,
/tWahiut Street-wharf—and for sale by
Philip Nicklin Co.
N. B.
THE SHIP
' Hamburg Packet,
Silas Swain, Marfer,
For Sale, or Charter.
Aug. 24. rots
T O B E~~S~d~L D y
Aud pojfejjton given immediately,
ALARGIi ovoftory brick Houle,h*ndfomeJy
situated in Princeton. There are four rooms
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a of back buildings 51 feet in
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. There is a pump
in the yard, an excelleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
stables, one of is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two flables for 27 noc/es. The heal
thiness and pleasantness oi its situation, and this
niimbei'of gentpel and agreeable families in and
near the town, reader it a defirahle rttreeat for a
gentleman frofri the city. Ihe commodioufnefs of
the house, it? central position, and the largeness of
the stables, make it|everywi»yfuitablefora tavern,for
which it has always teen confiderd as a capital
{land. Inquire on the premises, of
' ISAAC SNO^VDE^L
Princeton, Ang. 25. 29 —drv^lW
- notice. ""
IF Thedv O'Hara, who feme years since kept
Schcol at the Nine Bridges, Queen's Comity, Eas
tern Shore, Maryland he living, he is hereby re
minded to cafil on, or write to, the Rev. Anibrofc
Marihal, near Warwick, Cecil County, Eaftem
Shore, Maryland, frcm whom he will receive in
tercfring information.
Augujl 4. - mw&f^w
~ THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREENLEAF,
HEREBY give notice, that they have disposed
«f the property afligned to them for the securing
the payment of the note*, acceptances, and en
dowments given by Edward Fox, for the use
of the said James Greenleaf; and the holders of
such notes, acceptances, and endorfemento, are
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will f»ttle
with them for the amount of their refpeilive
claims, both principal and interest, at
any lime before the acth day of October next;
after which dav, the not applying, will
beexiluded, agreeably to the terms of align
ment.
Applications to be made at south-east corner
of Dock atfi Second streets (tile Dock-street
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
•lock every day, Sunday excepted.
. Henry Pratt,
' Tho. W. Francis,
John Miller, Jun.
John AJhley, „
Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, Augufl 18, 1797. d
The Inhabitants of the Diltrict
of Southwark,
RE informed (hat a Coachee is provided, to be
X i kept at the COriftables* office, the north east
earner of Front and Almond streets. where the
friends of those fide persons who desire to be re
moved to. the City Hospital. are reqnefted to make
application—A'-fo, a Hears! will bektfpt in readi
nefa stir the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
N. B.—l"he Foor, whowifh to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may be furniflied with order*
l*y.applying a Aw 29
"commissioners' SALES,
Commiflioners of the counties of Ly-
JL coming anil Northumberland, have given
notice that they intend to proceed to the sale of
lands, for the arrearage of taxes, on the 7th oi
September next.
0" The different printers in this city will
render an eflenti.il service to a great number of
individuals Dy publtlbing this notice.
All£. iS.
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 22, W97
WANTED
Edls on Amflerdam, at a fight not exceeding six
ty days, and with approved fndorl'eis, to the amour.t
f two hundred thoufaftd guilders—foe which ca(h
will l>r pu at the rate of thirty £ight centra gml
d"r —Application s »o be niaJe t6 George bimpfon,
Kfq. Caftiier of the Bank of the United States.
fr'p*- 41- dtf
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chelts ot a quality—Alfo,
100 do. of Hyson,
Imported in the IVoodrop Si»u, and for sale by
the fubferibers, corner of Second and Pine
street.
C. Haigkt.
June 11. _ eotf
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for l'ale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-street,
Hvlon
Hyson Skin (
Young Hylon (
Imperial )
April 20. pots
This Dity PubliQiecl,
And to be fold by WILI.IAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
v Price 3-Btbs of n Dollar,
Qbfer Ixl tions on certain Documents
Contained i« No. V and VI c\f
" The History of the United States &>r
the
In which the cn ARor. of speculation again ft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,.
Late fciECKLTAHY of the is FULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN MT UIMSF. LF.
This publication presents a concif* ftatcment
of the base means pradifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the characters of those
pjrfons who are confidtred as hostile to their difor
garizing schemes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and MelTrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh end Venable, on the fub
je& of the documents aforefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt,
that the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the r?fnlt of a daring confpiraoy on the part
of the latter md bis aUociates to extort money.
A difcouut if one third from the retail price
wifl bt made in favor ot wholesale purchasers, for
cawi. Orders to be addrelfed to Mr. Yoikg.
Augvjl 25.
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every Tut/Jay, Ttur/Jay, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the ir oruing ; arrives at Do
ver the firft day, at Snowhiil the second day, at
Northampton Court Honfe the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the passengers find
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey thorn to
Norfolk. ■
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
every Tuefdiy. Thursday and Saturday, and the
Stage start" frcm this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wodnefday and Friday -Jputs up at Snow
Hill the firft night, at Dover the ad night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day '
Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles less than on any stage route
between those place*.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
paflenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
August 11. dinweotf.
TO BE SOLD VERT
A Light WA GGGN almost row, with a frame—
and a pair of harness (English collars) has never
been used—price 90 Dolls.
A Horse 16 hands high, seven years old—and a
new chair, with a falling top and harness-— 3JO.
Enquire No. 331, Market-ilreet
August 24. duv
"» 1 * ~' T— *
Philadelphia, Jsth July, 1797.
NOTICE is hereby given, that llparate pro
pofale with sealed covers wil) be reotivatl
at my office until the elevent'h day of September
next, to furnifti by-rontradf the following ar
ticles for the use of the Army of the United
States in the year 1795.
First Contrail for
8 Sergeants coats "1
2 Muticians, do. j
10 Sergeants veils S Dragoons.
126 Privates eoats
126 Privates vcfts J
64 Sergeants coats
32 Mufictaos, do- '
96 Sergeants veils
192 Woolen overalls Artilleriftj
192 Linen overalls &
936 Privates coats Engineors.
q.)6 do. vests
1872 Woolen ovwalls
1872 Linen do.
144 Sergeants coats
71 Musicians, do.
216 Sergeants vests
432 Linen overalls
43a Woolen do. J- Infantry-.
l-? 93 Privates coats
1892 do. vcfts
3784 Woolen overalls
3784 Linen t l ©.
ift Contra#, for 1288 Sergea*>t§ ihirts
11816 Privates do.
12600 Socks
2d Contrail, for 272 pair leather breeches
3d Contrail, for 272 pair hoots
, 4600 pair (hoes, No. 1
8000 pair do. >{o. 2
4th CpntracSl, for 1032 Artillerists and Engi
neers hats
2108 Infantry c!o.
136 Dragoon caps
The whole to be delivered at the city of Phila
delphia, vjz.
One fourth on or beforo the 15th day of Fe
bruary next.
One fourth on or before the 15th day of A
pril next.
The remaining half on «r before the 15th day
of June next.
The articles are to be agreeable to such pat
terns as (hull be direfted by the Secretary for the
Department of War.
Payments to be made as soon as the article
{hall b« delivered, and pafied infpeiVion.
TENCH FRANCIS,
eotitihSep.
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chef nut Street.
Lately Publirhed,
Tn onr v,i!. 8 vo. (pi ice one dollar in boards') fold
by-WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
I ( h.-frur greets,
A Collection of Papers on the /uhje'S of
Biljious Fevers, prevalent iu the Unittd
States for a ftw years pall.
CotpAiled by NOAH WEBSTER, jun.
Containing letters from Doctors Seas a i, Smith,
BurJ, I'ayfcr, Ramsay, Mocfon, Reynolds, jMirch
ell,on contagion, &c. &e.
Sc " f - I- ,U
City Commijjioners Office,
August 29, 1797.
IN of an Ordinance of the Select and
Common Councils, pasTed the 22d day of May last.
Proposals in writing will be received hy the City
ConaiadSoners for one month from the ift of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on lease» for o«ie
year to commence the firl) daj of January next, the
Following public property of the city—
Tha wha- f and landing on Vine Street,
Also on SalTafras
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefntit and Walnut Streets, Draw bridge, with
th«s>caleand FiHi Houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the, middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lot* contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as shall bej occupied any buildings erect
ed for the use of the Colle#or ol the Tolls, or ba
for the toll-gate 3.),
t 3tawim.
LOS T, :.■•'
ON the Paffyuok Road, hstweanthe Blae 9eT!
and tiiecjty, n Fowling Tirtr, w th » brrfs
ba: rel and filyer fight; on the plate of the butt are
th« Ictt. rs " Jamaica, Q__ 99" —and on the barrel
near the lock " London" and the Tower stamp.
Whoever will return the aid piece to Jobn Barnard,
at the figii of the Bliiu Ball on the Paffyunk Road,
or the office of tiiis Gazette, Hull receive a reward
of Four French Crowns,
Kept. 12. *jt
~DU rY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
' I 'HAT agreeably to an ail of Congress ef the
X United States of America, palfed at Phila
delphia, the 28th day of May, 1796 ; laying du
tias on Carriages, for the conveyance of persons,
which (hall be kept by or for auy person, for his
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of pafTengers, the several duties and
rates following, to wit :
For ami upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every Chariot, 12 dols,
upon every Post Chariot, 12 dols.
upon every Post Chaise, 12 dols.
upon every Pkaeton,with or without top,
9 dols.
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon oth*r Carriages, having pannelwork
above, with blinds, glafles or curtains,
9 dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, haviilg fra
med polls and topi with steel lprings, 6
dels.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
eir-jjr iron springs or jacks, 3 dols.
•pon Curricles with taps, 3 dols.
»pon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel topcarriages,3dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or
iron springs, 3 dols.
For and upon all other tw* wheel carriages, 2 dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
frauiod posts and '.ops, and resting up
on wooden spars, 2 dols.
The Collectors of thefßevenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Diftrift of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 3cth day of September n"sj, for
the put pose of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
Germamown ; at the house oT Daniel St~Clair,Efq.
in the County of Montgomery ; and at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. In the County of Bucks;
of which all persons poifeired of such Carriages are
desired to take notice.
Notice is {ilfo giveta,
TO all retail dealers in Wine% and foreign dtf
tilled spirituous liquor*, that licence* will be graft
ed to thera ; one licence for carrying on the bufi
nefsof retailing of Wines, in a lcfs quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and oiie li
cence for carrying on the bufmefs of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than 20 gallons, at
the fame time iind at the fame places, by the ofiic
cr» legally authorised t® grant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpe&or of the Revenue of the firft fui*
v 1 vey of the of Pennsylvania.
Office of InfpeAion at
Germantow, 12th Sept. 1797. )
IMPORTED""
111 tho ftiip America, James Ewing, master, firom
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands t
White Piatillas
Ticklenhnrgs
Coatfe Linttis
Tapes
Looking G'afles 7 • r
Glass Tumblers j crfM '
FOR SALE BY
George Pennock.
Autrufi 14. 3aw
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and elerant house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and one dining room—.the largest is 31 feet by
26 —and two are so contis&ed by folding doors
as to make but one. Also, five bed rooms, be
fide6 5 in the garret, well finilhed for servants.
There are stables and a coach house, with evry
convenience fo'r a family. Enquire at No. 29,
in North Seventh street, or at No. 218, Arch
Street.
Aur. If, j iaw^w.
PETER BORGER,
INFORMS his friends and the public in general
that he has removed from No. I 29, corner of
Arch and Fourth, to No. 105 North Front, be
tween Arch and Rac« Hfeets*
July 2". WW4W
Window Glass,
Of Supe/ior Quality, and cheaper than any other ia
the City — 1
OF FAMOUS SIZES,
From Bbv 6t0»9 by 14,
£y the fmgle Box or Quami'y, may be had at the
S ore of the Subfcrifce{s, corner of Aich and Froqt*
street.
yamcs C. & Sami:dVt \ Fisher.
P'uladelpVria, j neo, 1797. I win wfit
f nfurance Compan\ of the State
. of Pennsylvania.
Office will be kept until furtLer notice at
JL the Hcufe in Germaniown. The
Company ftili retain the room in Chefnut, above
Seventh ferret, where a pcrfon will att.nd to re
ceive and. give aufwers tof applications, every day
from ro until I o'clock.
St I-t. J3- d^taawtf*
Bank of North America,
September 1797.
Monday next the Notice* for all Notes or
Bills payable atthUßank.which fall due en that
and the ensuing 6 days, wijl be served on the Pay
ers: And the like Notices on eveiy Monday, till
the further orders of the Dire&ors.—Perfons wifk
ing to deposit Nates or Bills,for Collection, which
are to fall due within the week, mud themfalves
undertake to pive notice ro the Payers. dtf
At a Meeting of the Board of
Property, June 6, 1797>
Prefect John Hall, See'ry.
Francis Johnfton, R.G. >oflando(Tice
' Dan. Brodhead, S. G )
Nicholas Bettinger, \
•versus . >■
Samuel Cunningham.)
In this cafe the proof of service of notice be
ing infufneient, It !»fjrdered that notice heav
en in one of the Philadelphia and York newspa
pers weekly, for at least eight weeks to the
heirs or assignees of Samuel Cunningham de
ceased, to atttend the heard on the firll Monday 1
in November next, to shew cautie why a patent
feouH noj iffiie to Nicholas Bettiugci for the
ljnd in >n.
{A true Copy.)
JOHN HALL,
Secrerary of th« Land Office.
A tie. 15. *iawßw.
"TO BE SOLD,
And immediate pojfejfiun given,
A Convenient well finished Brick Tenement,
with a cook house and other otit houses, fitu
atcd iB a pleasant part of the borough of Wilming
ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
has forty feet front on Weft-Greet, and extonds
through the square to Pallure-ftreet, on which is
creeled a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. 30.
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt. Rhodes, from
Oporto, ,
Red Port Wine in pip«, hhds. and quarter cases
6c cwt. Cork, for sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
July
The Partnerlhip,
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN W Company,
'is di Solved by mutual consent. All persons
having any demands again ft the said House are de
sired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to the House are desired to make pay
ment to him—By whom business will in future be
carried on,at hwStore, No. 39, South Front-ftree*.
AuguJ! 7. eod4w
NOTICE.
ALL those who have any claims against the
estate of Jouh Cole, Umbrella Maker, late
deceased, will apply within a month from the date
hereof, to Mrs. Cole, at the south east corner of
Green and Second ftreet,s, for their arrangement.
N. B. If ail demands are not sent in before the
expiration of the abovementioned time. th«v wi'l
not be allowed, as his property will be difpoledof.
Sept. 9. *3'
A PERSON OF INGENUITY, lately arrived
from Europe, wiihes to find here a place in
the quality of a Dire6tor of a Glals-houfe, Chryf
tal of all kinds, having particular means for the
conftruftion of the kilns, pots, &c. and poffefiing
likewise the articles used in the GlalsJioufes ot
E."gland and France, having worked a lo#g while
in m»fl of thrm. Every exertion will be made to
render the manufactory defervingof public appro
bation— Ho, who \vi(l>k's to speak to him, will find
him at No. 275 Frent-flle«t. ■"
/~l 14- *4t
Fjr iale or to be let on ground
rent,
d valuable Lot qf Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifcy-oo'e feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth ftieet ; there are at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of fvnall tenements thereon.
Al/b, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-flreet, between Mulberry and Saflairas
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east-
Ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Tliefe houses
ave the convenience of apublic alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very desirable fixa
tion for a merchant, flour fa£tor,or others who
may have oecafion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
forcafh. For further information apply to the
printer.
Jtilv
just publiflied,
And to be fold at the Bcokftores of H. & P.
Bice, No. 50, Market-ftrect j J. Ormrod,
No. 41, Chefnut-ftl-eet, and W. Young,
corner of Chefnut and Second-fireets,
An accurate Syfteru of Surveyings
IN WHICH IS CONTAINFD,
I. Decimal fractions, in a plain, coucife,
andeafy manner.
a. The extraction of the square root.
3. Plain trigonometry, redtangular 2nd ob
lique.
4. An exa<£l method to call up the contents
of lands.
5. Field surveying.
The whole being performed without the use
of scale and compafies, on a table of logarithms.
In which is given some account of fiie variation
of tjie needle, and the causes of its attrition.
By SAMU£L MOORK.
I. aawiw
Act laying Duties on Stamped Vellum,
Parchment and Paper.
A FFW copies of the ab-a/e aft may be had at
•he Office of the Gazer ee; :iie Haired States, No
119, (■hiitout-flreet. J u 'y
Thomas Herman Lf ufff.r,
North Fifth (tract corner of North alley, No. 34,
HAS FO?. SALH, •
Hourdeaui Wine in cases ami
V j bor.es. fix yeara'old ,
Wlti*y Graves Wine in cailas
Tirklenburgs v .
Hiiliia Sail Clotfis
Ravtfrrs Duck
Bag I/inoxi
Heflians
Diaper and TapleClo.'li
Empty bags
Caramon Dsrrr.an Cloth
An affortmentof black coloured ttibionj
l ine German I.aces
About twelve tons Russia clcsn Hemp
Clover Sied
Italian Soap, ::"1 small boxo®. for family ufs
Window O'afs 29 7—law
TH;JDAY WAS published,
Afcd fpr file by THOMAS DOBSON, at the
Stone House, No, 41, south Second ftreetj
EVENINGS at HQ ME;
OR, THR JUVENILE BUDGE 1" OPENED.
Confiding < fa variety of Mifeelianeous Pieces for
the inftru&ion and amusement of YOjUNG PER
SON >—Six Volumes handsomely prin'tcdand bound
up ii-i two volumes, price Two poliars.
The variety and excellence of thejfc pieces are
fuchj that the hook needa only to be known to hC
univerfaliy esteemed one of the moll valuable pub-
tfr t can be put into the hands of young
per fans.
" Delightful task to rear the tender thought.
To teach tlie young idea how t > lhoot,
To pour the frefh inUruclion o'er the naiad,
Td breathe th* enlivening spirit, and to fix
The generous purpose in the glowing breall."
Thomson.
August 34. mwf4W
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, ~~
By THOMAS DOSSON, at the Stone Houfc,
No. 41, south Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
V .
Between several 2 vunv Ladies, ctn improving and in
terfiling fubje&s.
Translated from the Dutch of Madame ie Cambcn
with alterations and improvements,
Printed tn fine paper, and neatly bound t
Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tides of extraordinary diftrefi, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul,'* atid
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comas forward to fa
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, b'6:iufi
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
cbaraSer is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and prefects examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publiflier wasfomuch pleafedwith the pera*
sal, that he was persuaded he Oiould do a pkafiag
fervicetothe community by fendkig it into circu
lation. August 24 —mw4v
To Majlers and Pilots bringing up P^effcli
from Foreign Ports to this City.
VYTHereasfundry infringements have lately lieen
. V made on the laws of this state for the pre
venting pestilential or infedious difeafea, either
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publilh the following ex
tracts from the laws of aid April, 1794, 7th and
Bth fedions.
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794.
Extralt of an nR for ftcuring the city and port
of Philadelphia from the tntroduSion of pcfti
lential and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And be it (iu; ther enafled, that «very
matter or captain of any (hip or vessel coming from
sea (vessels ailually employed n the coaftirg trade
t xcepted) and bound to any port or place within
the iuriuliftion of caufe his (hip
or veflpl to be brought to anchor,or otherwifc (laj
e l in the stream of the river Delaware, oppofit# to
the Health-Office on Stata-Iftand aforcfaid, anct
there to remain until he (hall have duly obtained a
certificate or hill of Ileal h freiv the R«fidcnt Phy
sician. Andil, previeufly to obtaining such certi
fu.iteor billof health, any matter or captain shall
fuffcr hisftiip or veflel to approach hf ::r<r than the
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
(hall land, cause or fuffer tp be landed, or brought
011 (hore, at any place or port within this Coi.->
mjintfealth, or at any other port cr place, with the
intent ol being conveyed into this CpmmouwealWJ,
any ptrfonor persons, cr ar.y goods, wares or mer
chandize. or, if after receiving such bill of health
o." certificate, he (hall ncglt d or refufe to deliver
the sams to the Health-Qlficcr, such matter or cap
tain jh'all forfeit aon p.y, for each »nd every such
offence, thefumof five uonereb dollars.
And the captaifl or matter of every (h-ip or vef
fcl (hall fend a fife and commodious boat to bring
the physician on board, and (hall in like manner
conv y Ui n ba<"!c to the Health-Office, after he ha«
concluded liis official examination ; And while
is making such examination, or in rase any fubfe-*
quent examination by the Health Officer or Con
futing Physician, agreeably to the directions of
this a3, the matter or captain (hall expole or caulc
| tol beexpofed to thefearch of the Resident Phyfi
rian,or of the Health Officer and Consulting Physi
cian (as the cafe may be) each and every part of the
(hip or veflel, and (hail present to his view each
and every person or perfocs on board thereof, and
and (hall also true and fatisfaitcrv answers make
to all such questions as the Resident Physician, &c.
at the time of examination (hall alk relative to &t
health of any port or place fr»m which the (hip or
vessel ('ailed, or has fipce touched at—she B umber
of persons on board when the (hip or veficl entered
011 her voyage —the number of persons that have
since been landed or taken 011 board, and wliea
and whererefpeilively—what gerfons on board—
s they haVe been during the voyage, or (hall, at
the time of examination, beinfeited with anv pes
tilential or contagious disease—and what is the pre
sent (late and condition of the paribus on board
with refped to their hea'th or diseases. And if
any matter or captain (hall rcfufc to expose as aforc
( aid, to the search of any of the officers aforcfaid,
n if he (hall conceal any ftck psrfaK, or in arty other man
j<r dccehe the proper officerl eforefaid in lis a
, jch captain or matter, for every such offence, lhall
; forfeit and pay t'.e sum of five übndrbd dol
lars. f
1 Sect. 8. rcrfon or persons whatso
ever (tUe Resident Physician, Ac; excepted) (hall
I go on board any vefie!, before the matter thereof
has received a certificate of h«alth in the manner
direiWd, every person so offending, foa'l pay th«
urn of OME HUNDRED DOLLARS.
IT being abfolutelyneccffary that the foregoing
felons (hould be punctually complied with, the
fubferilier, in compliance with his duty, mutt'ex
ail a rigorois observance of the fame, or else be
undyt neecGity of put'ting the law* in force.
Wm. Ai.l wK, Health Officer of tie
Pert li Pkiladrlphia,
July 14 ' Jjw
July 14
[VCLI'ZiE Xli.Xi;gg>asem. ;
PHILADELPHIA, ' e
5 Rip AY EVENING, St ptembf* *». J
• - ( ,
Dr. Mifafe has written a letter to the a
Mayor of Burlington, on the fubjeel of v
certain recent supposed infra&ions of the t
laws of Penrifylvania, refpefting quarantine. x
The doftor concludes thrfs : .
" In cafe permission (hall be hereafter de- j
lv.anded by any matter of a vessel in quaran-: j
tine, to proceed to your city, all that 1 can 1
legally do, with my present powers, will
be to inform hiin of the events that have
already taken place ; of the existing regu
lations of your corporation refpe&ing qua.
rantine, and to refufe my permission to de
part ; he may thereby be induced to re
main; but fliould he still wiih to depart, it
is not in my power to prevent him ; for al
though a law passed last year by congress,
dire&s.the commanders of the fgits, in the
fen port towns, to assist the health officers*
of the different states in the execution of I
quarantine on vessels, when called on for I
the purpose ; yet as no law has been passed
by the legislature of Pennsylvania, autho
vifing the employment of force by me,
when the health laws of our state are con
travened, and a compliance therewith (hall
be refufed : I have never made a demand of
this affitlance (except interrorem) evert in
cases where no doubt existed, and (hall not
therefore pretend to use it in others, when :
I am clear that the regulations wished to be j
enforced, will be declared illegal, when I
the proper authority Ihall be consulted
thereon.
" While I have thus, fir, endeavoured
to juftify my conduct, by a candid state
ment to you of she grounds upon which I
afted, on the occasion which is the fubjeft
of your letter, I beg you will do me the
justice to assure the citizens of Burlington, j
that 1 am seriously distressed at the reflec
tion that I fliould have been the unintenti
onal cause of exciting a moment's alarm,
or uneasiness among them ; and which I
am happy ia thinking they have since dif
. covered, was without any real foundation ; |
that I will with pleasure use all my influ- 1
ence in future, as'well as the power I may
hereafter be found legally to possess, to pre- i
tent a similar occurrence—and I request I
that you will accept of the assurance of the ,
•high refpett I entertain for your charafter."^
("The Editors of the Baltimore Federal Ga
zetf, : n commenting on the frequency of theft*, ;
ro!>beries and murders in the United StatC6,
within the last year, very justly and naturally
traced them to the corruptions and profligate j
principles introduced atnongft society by the \
French revolution. Any man of sense must j
at once fee that thi» is their true and only j
source. U did not fail h»wever to excite the !
vengeance of the Frenchman Bachc; tl e Bal- ;
tirsore Editors thin repel bis calumnies.J
Th<;Jile-leuslerof the new-born patriots, the
immaculate editor bf the chajle Aursra, not
content with advocating the traitors of our coun
try, from Arnold to Blount, has at length be
come the champion of the robber* and mur
derers who infell our highways. Although he
frequently fers the journals of France, which in
form him their councils are often bulled on the
means of putting a period to the innumerable
nnirder6, aflaflinatioßs, and robberies daily com
mitted there, he pretends to deride the idea of
tracing the enormities here to the diftruftion of
order in Europe, and, because France is not a
monarchy, he fayi, ergo, it is impelfible they
fliould proceed from thence ? Let Benny, with
all his profundity,point his finger to a lingle page
of the liiOory of France during the monarchy,
so blackened with crimes of every description,
as theufands of the columns of their »vjn ga.
zettes are even now. Wc might, however, have
probably iaved ouiTelves the trouble of looking
to Europe for it? origin, had theprimary vehicle
of Jacobinic dtfpotitm, lucceeded in scattering
fire-brands, daggers and discord among us—ta
this unnatural Aivora, (furgo ut perdam) which
i»>,ftead of illumining, ovcr-clouds and darkens
Die face of nature, we might have traced all our
mireries.
To pafo his remarks to the public more than
his own decaying fink of misrepresentation is
able, we give his own words.
" One of the secondary gazettes of the facti
on, to the Ibuthward, of those whose puny ef
forts are chiefly confined to copying the abomi
nations of the leading papers, has, for once,
'flruc'n out a new thought;—it has discovered,
that the robberies and murders committed in the
United States are a consequence of the over
throw of all the laws of good order, morality,
&c. effe&ed by the French revolution. Oh the
dignified virtue of monarchies!—where courti
ers, courtezan* and feoundrels fattenTpon the
public spoil. Oh, for the energies of lush a
government here ! —The rascal then need not
he driven to the highway for bread, which he
could earn at court.
'* Since writing the above we find, that Mr.
Webster, the learned'editor of the N. York Mi
nerva, has taken up and improved on the idea
of hi* fellow labourer to the southward, and at
tributes the robberies and murders in the United
States to those tmigraths who have been driven
here from the relllefs spirit of jacobinism and
He wishes a ilop put to the
immigration."
WILMINGTON, (Del.) Sept. 16./
Extraft of a letter from Dr. Benjamin
/ Rush, Philadelphia, to Dr. James Tt l
* Ton, of this I>lace, dated Sept. 6, 1797.
My Dear Sir,
Your long and intimate conncftion with
our late mutual friend, Dr. Way, may cause
you to wiih to know some particulars of his
death. He wa6 seized on Monday, August
28th, with all the usual symptoms of our
prevailing' yellow fever. He bled himftlf
sparingly twice before 2 o'clock, at which
time lie sent for me. His pulse being full
and tense I urged more plentiful bleeding".
To this h? objefted, pleading his time of
life. He Tiowever contented to his being
twice bled in the afternoon, losing each time
but 6 or 7 ounces of blood, finding his ob
jeftion great to the only remedy which I
thought would be tffeftual in hi 3 cafe, I cal
led Dr. Griffiths to my assistance, who join
ed me in urging more copious bleeding.—
He consented to. two more small bleedings,
one on the 2d, and the other on the 3d day
of his disease. In all, he loft but little more
than 40 ounces of blood, a quantity mod
of our physicians tiow find by far tao {mall J<
to futdue an-acute cafe'of "hur fever." On n
the 4th, stli and 6th daYs his pvtlfe became o
languid, and flow, purge* were given, and rr
cordials prefcribedto no purpose to raise it. S
He died on the 6th day.—l law him at two d
o'clock. He was then finfible, but io weak ii
as to speak with difficulty, he looked at me f
with great tenderness, and his eyesfilled with n
tears. Soon afterwards he was attacked r
with convullions, and died at 6 ofclock in the r
afternoon. I need not tell you who knew t
hip worth, and my lincere regard for him, t
how much I have been afflifted by his death,, t
His was as dear to me as a brother. t
From my dear lir, \
Your fincerc friend, c
BENJAMIN RUSH-- t
SPANISH RASCALITY. <
1
COMMUNICATION. 1
To the Editors of the Colummbian Mirror, t
Gentlemen, <
In your paper of the 7th inft. is inserted <
*a paragraph, (taken from another paper) t
| which states that the differences in the wef- 1
tern country, betwixt Spain and the United i
States, were fettled ; that the commiilion- ;
ers had proceeded .to run the line ; and
that the Spaniards had a force of 10,000 <
men in the province.—You very justly ob- 1
serve, that this information Joes not agree
with the spirit of the proclamation which 1
you annexed; and theprobability of its truth <
is further to be questioned, by its being fta
j ted that the fame person who gave the infor- '
j mation, brought dispatches to Philadelphia <
J from the representatives of/too different pow
ers —a thing in itfelf absurd. However,leav
ing the wide field of conjecture, I will some
to the fads. lam but this moment arri
ved from the Spanilh dominions by the way
of Natchez, which place I left about the
middle of July, and I a flu re you that then
1 there was no more probability of the differ
| ences being fettled than there was before,
things remained in the fame state they had
done for some time ; in faft, some ftiort
time since, there was not so much as an ap
pearance of a pacific difpofitio* : for the in
j habitants of tho diftriA of the Natchei, en
' raged at the delay of the Spaniards, in not
delivering up the forts, rose en majfe, and
kept the Governor close confined in th* fort
. for the space of 12 days, and he was afraid
' then to venture out until he had signed ar
; tides of capitulation drawn up by the inha
bitants, in which they secured to themlelvei
many valuable privileges, until the differen
ces between the two powers fliould be fet
tled. These articles were sent down to the
I Baron de Carondel«t, for confirmation, and
I the dispatch bringing the ratifications, arri
i ved at Natchez the day I left it.
With refpe£l to the Forces of the Spani
| ards in that quarter, they are precisely this 1
At New Madrid, [the firft settlement on
entering the Miffifippi from the Ohio) there
are between 30 and 40 men without any fort ;
at Chickafaw Bluffs, there is a ftrjeant and
12 men ; at the Walnut Hills, I cannot pre
cisely tell the number, as I did not stop
there ; at Natchez, there are between 30
and 40 ; and at New-Orleans, there are so
few as not to be able to do the duty of the
garrison, so that the inhabitants are called
upon to perform that fertice—a talk, of
which they complain bitterly. These are the
mighty forces which the Spaniards have on
that river;—however, I can easily conceive
1 how the information came. If I am not
• mistaken, it was brought by one Thomas
1 Power, who has brought dispatches lately in
' to the United States, but for whom, no one
knew when he left the Natchez. He is the
fame person who was flopped on the Ohio
about 12 months ago by lieutenant Steele,
by command of the late General Wayne,
> and hi* papers seized. He was fufpe&ed
1 of .coming with a design to alienate the as
' fe&ions of the inhabitants of the western
r countries from the Union, and to attach
, them to Spain ; it is supposed that this fe
, cond trip to our country has in it something
of a similar design—he migkt have political
- views in representing the strength of the
■ Spaniards much greater than it really is.
As to the preient amicable disposition of
' the Spaniards, and their wish to carry the
; treaty into effeft, I wrll giv<: you two re
cent instances. Mr. M'Cluney, of Wash
, ington, in Washington county, (Pennfyl
: vania) lately went down the Mississippi
" with a cargo of flour : at Walnut Hills,
c when he went afliore to shew his passport,
a the commandant of the place told him that
e he wanted the flour that was in his boat.
Mr. M'Cldney told him, U>at if he would
-. give him 14 dollars per barrel, or the rife
- of the Orleans market 'for three months,
1 he might have it. The commandant re
" turned for answer, that the flour was there,
and he mujl and would have it ; and with
"l refpett to the price, he (Mr. M'Cluney)
e must fettle that with the proper officers at
New" Orleans, and immediately sent down
some soldiers to seize the boat, in direst
violation of the 7th article of the treaty,
n which declares that " the fubje<fts or citi
- zens of eaeh of the contracting parties,
U their vessels or effefts, shall not be liable to
any embargo or detention on the part of
h the other, for any military expedition, or
fe other public or private purpose whatever."
is When he came to New Orleans, he procur
ft ed certificates from the; different merchants,
ir of the price of flour, being 14 dollars per
If barf el, ar.d he presented these to the proper
h officers, expelling to receive that sum ; but
ill what was his 'surprise, when, contrary to
t. every principle of honor and honelty, and
jf ; in open violation of a foltmn treaty, he
g j found they would only give him 12 .dollars !!
le I In vain did he remonllrate on the occasion ;
b- ! in vain did he plead the treaty, or his being
I an American citizen ! He difcoveved too
.1- late, that the common principles of redti
n- tude were not to be found in the bosom of
- 1 a Spaniard ; and all.the fatisfadion he had
s, (if a fatisf.ftion it may be called) was,
ty that lie was not the only one, by many, who
re had been dnped in the fame manner.
ft j The other cafe refpedkd aiyfelf; one
Jofi-ph Vidal, the (v'eretary of the govern- h
Wnt was indebted to me a fjim of money, 1
of which when I wfint to demand- the pay- if
ment, he tendered me as a discharge some
Spanilh certificates, which bore an enormous ii
discount, there being no money at that time d
in the treasury,—these certificates are a si
species of paper money drawn by the com- a
mandants of the different forts on the treafu- «
ry at New Orleans, and paid away to work- 1<
men, &c. for wages; and are received by ti
the merchants at a rate proportionable to V
the degree of confidence they can put in p
them. Vidal wanted me to receive them at a
their nominal, vjilue—l refufed, and as he r
would not pay me in the current coin of the e
country, I brought the cafe before Gayofo "
the governor. He (who has so »ften as- v
fured Mr. Ellicott that it is the fmcere wi(h h
of Spain to carry the treaty into effeft) — d
this fame man decreed (contrary to the F
knowledge of every inhabitant of the place) c
that it was the cujlom of that country to re
ceive the certificates as ca(h, and that (even r
depreciated as they were) they were a legal c
tender. I reded myfelf on the treaty, and F
begged that agreeable to the provision made '
in the 7th article the cafe might be decided '
according to the authority of LAW ON
LY, 'and not according to the cujlom of the
country, with wflSch, as aft ringer, I was ]
not supposed be acquainted, and further, J
that the law ( if there were would 1
affeft the cafe in point), might be pointed
out to me ; on which OUR FRIEND 1
GAYOSO, pointing to his own breast, had 1
the effrontery to tell me, that HE was the (
law ; and that as HE said, the law was to '
be decided. As the governor had none but '
his own sycophants about him when he made 1
use of this assertion, I thought it necessary
to call in some one to be witness to so extra- 1
ordinary a declaration ; and as an authority
for so doing, I pleaded the 7th art. of the
treaty, Which declares, that " The citizens
and fubjt?As oflioth parties (hall be allowed 1
to employ such advocates,' solicitors, nota- 1
ries, agents, and faftors, as they may judge 1
proper in all their affairs, and in all their tri- 1
als at law, in whiqh they may be concerned
before the tribunals of the other party ; and
such aagiits (hall have free access to be pre
sent at tne proceedings in such causes, and at
the taking of all examination and evidence
which may be exhibited in the said trials."
But even this—this very evident privilege
was refufed by the fame evasive answers, and
every avenue to obtain justice completely
1 (hut up. Fym these circumstances it is
. evident.there is no greater security in navi
. gating the Miffiflippi, since the treaty than
. before it; nor will. there ever be, till that
[ nest of harpies, who prey upon the Ameri
. can citizens, is completely rooted out:—
what dependance can be placed in a treaty,
which the whim or caprice, favor or folly,
1 of a petty commandant of a Spanilh garrison
, is able to set aside : and to substitute hit own
will as the Uw which is to govern a free ci
. tizen, rilking his property under the faith
1 of foleron treaties.
Rcprefentations of these two cases have
j been forwarded to the secretary of state.
> I am, firs,
, Your's refpeftfully,
, FRANCIS BAILY.
1 Wednesday, Sept. 13th, 1797.
f -
e Late Foreign Intelligence.
e MILAN, July 21.
t The spirit of party which is every where
s prevalent is much exaggerated in the account
- sent from "this city, because it is that in
e which there are most adventurers, and men
e who have nothing to lose in the event of a
3 subversion of social order. Do not then be
, astonished at feeing such a number of falfe
■ hoods designedly publi(hed. Among these
i you may reckon the pretended account of
a threatening letter written by general Bu
rt onaparte to the minister of Tufcany, oji ac
h count of some fupF>ofed insults which it is
pretended the French have received at Leg
g horn and at Plfa. All these fabrications
[l are made with a view of exciting the French
e against quiet and temperate governments.
Government has appointed a committee
i to report on the general state of finances.—
e It has brought its labors to au end, and has
found a deficiency in every particular. The
[. chests of the bank of St. George, of the
1- hospital, of the college, and of the recepta
>i cle for the poor, have all been found empty,
• and we know not where tolook for resources.
[[ CADIZ, July 17.
t. Yesterday admiral Jervis sent a flag of
d truce, reclaiming "from general Mafferedo
"e nine officers, among whom was his nephew,
i, whom he thought prifoneb ; but it Was dis
covered from the wrecks driven afhoie, that
~ the cTialoupe on board of which was his
h nephew, had gortc down during the last aft
) iori, which was very brisk.
it July 20.
n The Englilh had blockaded Cadiz by sea,
ft and had even thrown some bombs into the
f, town : we have, however, just learnt by a
i- courier extraordinary, which arrived yefter
s, day, that the Englilh have been compelled
:o to abandon the attack, and to cut their ca
-3f bles in order to escape ; our squadron, corn
er posed of 28 (hips of the line, well manned,
" have failed in pursuit of them i and we have
r- reason to expeft fuctefs.
•r PARIS, July 30.
er The Journal des Hommes Libres, which
lit is commonly pretty well acquainted with the
to secrets of the Louvre, because it is under the
id dre&ion of some of the subaltern gentry
:ie there, discovers great regret at the symptoms
! J of reconciliation between the council and the
1 ; direftory. Carnot and conciliation are the
,g objefts of its most violent indignation ; it
jo regrets that the chance of a civil war is
ti- gone. The following are its refleftions :
of " The ganeral efforts of the political le
ad vers, which for these some days have been
is, in motion at the Luxembourg, have thrown
10 the oscillation of the direftory into its for
mer pofitiou.
ne " The Five Hundred have retreated (adds
he) in order to advance with more effeft.— t
The general.chorus is, "I am afraid, and I vv
inspire fear."
It then proceeds to (late*, that the plan of j ei
impeachment against the direftory is aban- I
doned ; and that the direftory has on its ; f<
fide abandoned the idea of an impaachment '
against a part of the legidative body. It
regrets that the clubs have been al
lowed to be (hot up, and from this concludes, 1 o
that those it calls patriots will be massacred ,
ever ; that they will' thus he It
punished for their incorrigible confidence f;
and their foolifh simplicity ; that without a , b
rupture, the peace at Lisle will be conclud- ' tl
ed on terms less favorable to us ; that the n
impeachment of the Direftory and a civil f;
war will come a little later ; that the legif- ; p
lative body will continue its usurpation, the i ii
direftory be a little more impotent and def- i y
pifed ; and that it was not worth making so j f;
much rioife to gain such a result as this. I t'
We have quoted nearly its own terms,and h
not yet knowing to what a degree a recon- d
ciliation, so desirable and so- necessary, is v
probable, or Is likely soon to happen, we
have given this piece for the conjectures of
our readers.—Perlet.
J u iy 3 1, . F
The new minister of foreign affairs has o
written to the commissary of the direftory I
in the department of the Ourte, the follow- t
ing letter, dated the 20th July : o
" I have received, citizen, your letter of e
the 23d of last month, by which yo* an- 0
nounee to me that a pretended agent of the r
ci-devant state of . Liege (till exercises his <
funftions at the Hague. . I have just di- j
rested citizen Noel to obtain accurate infor- t
mation on this fubjeft. The moment that ]
1 I (hall receive his answer, it (hall be commu- <
nicated to you. (
(Signed) "talleyrand."
A few day 3 ago, Buonaparte's harrangue <
to the army of Italy was polled against all !
the walls of Paris. At the present moment 1
the walls are covered with an eloquent ad- 1
dress of Pichegrue to the armies. It is ex- 1
trafted from the report madtS-by him in the ]
fitting of the council of five hundred on the 1
2jth ult. lam happy to find, that if Cz
far is on the onefide,Pcmpeyis on the other.
I am inclined to think too, that the public
tranquillity is not so much in danger at some
people imagine from the effefts produced
by the present fermentation in the public
mind, and the struggle that has taken place
too indulgent. The good understanding
of governors frequently proceeds from noth
ing more than a cordial adoption of a system
of usurpation. A little animosity makes
them keep a watchful eye on their conduft,
and their mutual faults. Dispositions, there
fore, of this kind, so far from being injuri
ous to the governed, are generally beneficial
to them. It is only desirable, in order that
no bad effefts may arise, that the parties be
fufficiently strong to check themselves, with
out any (hoek, merely by the equilibrium to
be produced by collision. This appears to
■me to be the secret of our present situation.
The constitution is a centre which draws all
around it—The debates tend to its establish
ment. This ought to be their objeft, and
resistance serves only to add force to their
endeavours.
It is said that the disposal of the city of
Venice is now the fubjeft of dispute between
France and the emperor.
ADMINISTRATION OF FINANCES.
The minister of finance to the commissioners
of the executive direftory residing at the
1 central administration of the departments'.
1 I fend you, citizen commiflioners, a copy
1 of a letter I received on the id ioft. from
: the executive direftory, calling on me for an
- account of the manoeuvres praftifed to alarm
: the purchasers of national domains. It en
: joins me to cause an exaft ofcfervance to be
- made of the laws and principles which are to
- secure them from the new attempts of the
i enemies of the country. I entreat yt>u, ci
- tizeu commiflioner, to demand of .the cen
s tral administration of the department, to
1 tranferibe on its regiftcrs the copy of this
letter, to the end that your fellow-citizens
may be made acquainted with it, and that it
- may manifeft, by its publicity, the intentions
J of the government, on who ft efforts and
: perseverance every stress may be laid. I
: Aiould be afraid of weakening the impreflion
■ which an exposition of the principles by
, which the. direftory is aftuatad, onght to
. make on every citizen, if I were to enter in
to any elucidations of my own. It rather
becomes me to confine myfelf to the pressing
f exhortation and formal recommendation I
3 now make to you, to employ all the means
, in your power to. re-animate public confU
- deuce, to prove that it is established on the
t most solid basis, to point out all those who
s aim at weakening it, to apply to them the
- laws enafted against the enemies of the
country, and to communicate to me all the
fafts which may come to your knowledge.
, If any purchaser of a national domain (hould
: be molested in the enjoyment of his property,
1 denounce the author of the outrage to the
- tribunals, and apprise me without delay of
1 what has happened. If an emigrant (hould
- find an asylum in your department, cause
1- him to be apprehended, and give informa
1, tion to the minister of police. If any one
e (hould revive pretentions or prejudices con
demned by the laws or by reaion, endeavor
in the firft instance to root out the error by
an exposition of ufefal truths. If these pre -
h tensions or prejudices should be persisted in,
ic the intention must then be criminal : and
ie you are to exert every severity, to the end
y that the good citizens »ay find in the agents
is of government the guarantees of public fecu
e rity ; if you should find that an endeavor is
ie made, no matter on what pretext, to con
it ceal any property belonging to the national
s domains, you are to consider the author of
this fraud as a dilapidator of the public pro
f- perty, and UT proceed against him accord
in ingly. You are to transmit to me a ilate
n ment of the sales of national domains up to
r- hie ill Thtrmidor, in separate columns, as
follows :
Is 1. An aceoiwt of the immovable proper
ty fold, and the name of ibe commune in
which it is situated. A
2. 'The ekablifti'ment on which it depend
ed, or-the old proprietor.' • \
3. The sum for which it was put up to
sale.
4. The sum for which it was fold.
5. The name of the.purchaser.
And a sixth blank column is to be left for
observations.
If any purchaser should hare been mo
lested in his pofleffions, you will state the j
fame in a note, with his steps which have
been taken to secure him the proteftios of
the laws. During the firft decade of every
month yeu will fend me a statement, in the
fame form, of all the sales made during the f
preceding month. You are to be punftual '
in this refpift, as it is a general measure
which promised great utility. Yeu cannot
fail, citizen commilTary-, to be aware of all
the importance of this letter. You cannot <
have so favorable an opportunity to give the
directory a proof of your zeal in an affair in 1
which it takes so lively an interest.
D. V. Rams.l, minister of finance. J
August 1.
The letter* that we receive from the de* j
partments speak only of the contradictory
orders given for the march of the troops.
If a courier in the morning brings an order
to advance, another in the evening brings an
order to retreat. The general officers cross
each other, and nothing seems to be thought
of but bringing the two councils to their
reason. This is a light iketch of' the pro
ceeding that take place in our frontier de
partments, and which resemble too much
those that preceded the revolution of 1790.
How is it that a government newly establish
ed, so much refemblea that which we are
destroying ? .
It is said, indeed, thit general Ferine,
at Sedan, has flopped the march of two
columns of our army that were going to
Paris. He obferred to them that their
marching orders were not legal, and they
retreated. It is, however, added, that he
was obliged to make preparations for op
posing their passage, and that the cannon
of the citadel was turned against them.—
Tableau Je PEurtpe.
The Turkish ambadador still continues
to be "the fubjeel of general conversation. .
At the ball given at the Odeon in honor
of his excellency, the most elegant women
in Paris vied to engage his attention. But '
it seems that mademoiselle Lange, the ac- » ,
tress, carried the prize. Guessing the am
baflador's taste from his age, gravity, &c.
she reje&ed the fafhion of the day, and
appeared in a dress equally decent and mag
nificent. Three falutatiops from his ex
cellency, and leave to pay him her homage,
were the proofs of the impression she marl*
upon him. All Paris seems convinced that
she is to have the handkerchief. Since
that day every article of female dress be
gins to be "a la Turque Rcbes a lc>.
1 Turque, Chapeaux ala Turque. In short,
» the Parisian Fair are growing Sultanas in
every thing except confinement; a new
I mode which lam persuaded all the Bashaws f
■ in the Turkish dominions would never b«
1 able to ihtroduce among them,
r August 2.
Every thing is tranquil at Turin. Gen. Buona
r parte has written to the king of Sardinia, congra
tulating him on his prudent conduit, and affurinjr
1 hirn, that in cafe of neceflity he may depend on his
affillancf. [No doubt J
The dirc&ory has enter.ly fupprefled the offi
cial part of the Redafletir. This determination
5 appears to have been taken immediately after cer
i tain articles which have given occiCan to the lqud
. remarks of the different parties.
. Several Joursrlshave published a letter from Ita
ly, bearing, that peace was Cgned at Udina, by Bn
-1 onaparte, Clarke, and tke plenipotentiaries of the
1 emperor, This news appears to be premature.
1 We think' however, that the emperor will not ex
. pose himfelf to the danger of feeing Buonaparte,
„ Moreau and Hoche, pour at once on his territo
ries, and again threaten his capital; that he would
1 not compromise the fate of the countries we have
c allowed him to take ; that on this idea peace will
- be Cgned with Austria within a month, if the em
. ptrorlillens to other councils he would probably
5 repent of the bad faith with which the prims min
ister, Thuguet retards the conclusion of the nego
-5 tiation, fmce the opening of those at Lisle, which
s gives him the hopes of protfaiting it, and pioduo
: ing fomc Other refults.—Pcriet
-3 Paris continues to be tranquil, and almost exclu
j ftvely occupied with fetes.
. Until we (hall feu the addresses from all the
division* we may he able to form some
1 of the spirit which will prevail in that »f the di
' vision of Angereau, from the fpeeeh of that ge
) neral on the celebration of the federation of the
. 14th July, in which is the following remarkable
r paflage:
" May," fays he to thcfoldiers of his division,
: " may a spark of the sacred fire which animates
you, warm the fouls of these younsr Sybarites
" who have neither virtue npr patriotism, and in
- whom effeminacy and egotil'm have extinguidi
: td the voice of honor. And you my comrades,
j persevere always in the fer.timents which affoci
e ate you to their g'ory. If rafii factions have
dared to attempt otr rights ; if the conftituttna
you hive chosen Uas been violated if your vic
e torious hands have been threatened with chains;
if their audacity has been carried so far as to ate *
J tempt to raise again either the fcaftold or the
, throne; —you soldiers know you' duty—there
e will be nothing remaining for you but the altcr
f native ps Liberty or Death " —VEc{a:r.
, Francois de Neufchateau arrived oh the jcth
ult. The day after, the minister of the interior,
J delivered to him the Porte Ffii'lie. Relative t6
■- Benezech, she diredlory made an arret, wliiclf
C defei ves lo be made known .
[. The executive diredlory orders, that th«
r refignatiou of Benezecb, minister cf the interior,
be accepted. The present arret is not. to be 110-
' tified to the citizsn Eene/ecli till after the arrival
of Francois de Neufvhateau."
i>
d COUNCIL OP FIVE HUNDRED.
d August 1.
s The order of the day called for the difcuffioH
j. relative to ground rents.
j g Fabre —You are aware that enemies
have circulated rumours thro'the department',
that yon are about to difpofiefs of their property
J ' the purchasers of national domaiiw. These cal
>f umntes ought to be refuted, and all France (honld
3- know that you will cpnftanfly prote<Sl the Uwlul
]. iiur,-hafers of these domains. I dfcmand a prior- '
o_ ity for the discussion relative to the parsonage
Q Opinions vary much on this object,
ar d the debates may be wound up this day.—
as This proportion was adopted.
Pavie spoke against the plan of the comrfiiflion
r- IHe confijicred tii- parfoi kcufes -to have1015 ec-iffl so be a difpofahje natioica] property,
which eO"M r n triare l»e alienated shan the raiii
parts of'i fortified place, tfe pybfic'mwlim.-nt'i
of a commune, rr the lands referred for the
foads. AVith refpefl to the purehafers of na
tions! domain?, he many of them
as feandafous frauds : in the department Ettre,
a chateau, vahted at 61Q,r,00 livres in'ip, bar 1 ,
bem given foi in mandats. He
ilemanried that the fa'e of the parfomjte houses
fhouhi be put a to ; that they fhotild be it
the d'fpQ!at,of the communes; and that the
sale of all thole difoofed of since aj.Rrumaire,
of.the fec.iud year, (houid be declared null and
invalid.—Adopted.
The ftriking-.proof of animosity displayed
by the opposite parties in the fitting of the
Council of Five Hundred of the 20th inft.
appear to have spread fame alar/n among the
friends' of the present coiiftitution of France.
All the public prints demoted to the party
of the moderates, are filled with the most af
fedting complaints, and the strongest appre
hensions on the occasion of this unexpected
division. L'Eclair eXpresses himfelf ip the
following manner 011 this interesting fubjedt:
" The cdfis approaches : all the symp
toms of a new revolution already begin to
appear, uiegiarties are already raisged up in
battle array again ft each other. Yet a few
days, and the sword will decide. Discord
has taken ppfTeffion of the Council of Five
Hundred, and it will not be cast cjut till it
has gorged itfelf with the blood of the one
party or the other ; perhaps of both.
" Woe be to him," said a sage, " Woe
he to him thro whom offence cometh!" Woe
be to you, Reprefcntatives of the People,
when, degrading the ituguft chara£ter with
which you are inverted, yort transform your
Senate to an arena for Gladiators ! Can
you hope that men will refpeft you when
you do not refpedt Vourfelves ? And how do
you hope to govern, if you do not inipire
refpett ?
" Which party is to blame ? Both. I
will fay this, however, that if violence can
St all be pardoned it is iu the vanished mino
rity. But you, the favorite Representatives
of the People ; you, of whom a united ma
jority is always sure to triumph, how can
such excuses be juftifisd in you ? What evil
geuitis could inspire von with the fatal tho't
of terminat ing by the spirit of faction, a dif
cufiion in which you were sure to be victo
rious, by displaying with calmness and with
dignity the whole power of your will ?
" Cybeas, on entering the Roman Senate,
imagined himfelf tranfportedinto an afTembly
of Kings : What would he have faid,had he
been a fpeftator of such indecent contests ?
And, great God ! at what a moment do
you rellgn yourfelf to the impulse of your
brutal paflions ? At the moment when the
envoys of the King of England arrive to
treat for'peaee ! Do you believe that scenes
of this nature are very well calculated to in
spire them with a high confidence in the
wisdom and in the liability of our govern
ment ?'
" If you overthrow, or if you allow the
Constitutional Republic to be overthrown,
you will fall into the military Republic, and
the latter will be more dreadful than the
former. To day you are magistrates ; to
morrow you will be slaves. Amicus Plato
magis arnica Veritas. Never was there a fay
ing more necefiary to be repeated jpd ob
served.
" On what'points then does the crisis in
which France is-placed, depend at this mo-,
ment! On the retaining or difmifTal of four
ministers, whom the majority of both coun
cils, and the whole nation accuse of igno
rance and perfidy, and whom the Diredtory
obstinately persists in preserving as the agents
of the Executive Power." On this fubjedt
of ditutiion we meet with the following re
marks in the fame' Journal :
" In every country that wiflies to preserve
its tranquility and happioefs, the ablest and
wisest men- should be called to the manage
ment of public affairs. Confidence is extin
guished in every heart when folly and igno
rance obftruft the avenues tp the feat of gov
ernment. Cease then, Directors, to shut
your ears to our prayers ! VVe entreat you,
in the name of your country, to dismiss
from their employments, and banish from
your presence, Ramel, Charles La Croix,
Truguet, and Merlin. The last is peculiar
ly unworthy, your notice. As longasyou
remain surrounded by such ministers, how
can you pofiibly exj» (ft, that we, who are
both by good will and reason firmly bound
to support the prefefltorderof things, should
protest you against the and com
plaints of those, who, regretting what thejf
have loft, eagerly desire to return to that
point from which they firft set out ? Were
we to be your adyocates, should we not ex
pose ourfelvesto thejuft reproaches of either
flattering stupidity, or of being the accom
plices of wicked men ? We makethis request
on your as well as our own account. When
you shall have granted it, we will then en
deavour to recal to reason those of our bre
thren who are now tormented with unavail
ing anxiety."
ARMY OF CONDE.
. Order of the .20 ti July, 1797.
" His majejly, the tmptror of Rujfts, has
done me the honor to inform me, that the king
of France has made a propo/ttion io him refpcß
ing this army ; and his imperial majeflyflatters
himfelf that his, majejly and myfelf will he equal
ly fatisjied with the overtures which his mini-
Jler is commifjioned to make me in his name.
" The emperor of Rujfta is willing to grant
every relief to this army. He is about to apply
to the courts of Vienna and London, to continue
their generous benefySious to it. Until the ar
rangements will be made, he dejires me to rejl j
ujfured, that from the moment hejhall take
charge of the aryiy, every individua in it, from j
the highejl lieutenant general to the loiuejl soldier j
who is willing to take advantage of his kindness. ■
lhall preserve the fame rank andpay as he al ;
this moment enjoys. We cannot know, until j
the return of the courier which is to be sent to j
Rvjfta what is the nature of the h. reditarygrants 1
iL-l:h his imperial majejly intends to promt fe this ' •
army befuUs granting to the French nobility the ] 1
feme privileges which nobles of Rujfta. enjoy ." j <
J' j LONDON, sfusjifi 7. |
r ! I''""™* F»'j%niv, died
°* foJF*? 0 n if} - lid Jidy : his body after
j. j t " c etretinates, was committed to the deep.
m 1 I?reparations for war are earru jon with
t " c greatejl erSivi/y tn, Germany. A Jlrong de
>'• tadnn'nt from the Aujlrtin army on 'tis Lower
Ie Rhine has begun its march towards the tfrrito
" nes "["rped during the -war by the king ofPruf
fch who hi; par!, inereafed, the fiirce
under the Duke of Brunfwici to 6b,000 men,
lt J and given orders for the ejiabhfhment oftha
gazines near the scene ofcontejl. 'it is said, he
never, that that Monarch has with drawn his
: d troops from the city of Nuremburg ; and if this
K W'true it may hoped he will be induced to
t. j to the voice ofjufltce, without the interpqfi
ie : tion of arms. Prudence, indeed, may have
e. JuggeJedthis line of conduct : for the eleßor of
y j of Saxony, on whose support Frederick William
f- ; appears to have depended,has not only abandon
e. Ed his cause, but has affeml'ed an army of
d men, to second the efforts of the law
ie chief of the German empire.
5 0 15y this day's Mail.
n * ,
«r BOSTON, Sept. 18.
d Navy Yard, September 18.
r e The conllru&or, having exttnded to his
it fellow-citizens, all reasonable gratification of
[e f their laudable curiosity, during the progress
of the buildmg, believes he may with pro
■te priety make the following request and fug.
Ie geflions, on the operation of launching the
frigate Conjlitution.
h That (excepting the I'refideut of the U
r nited States, the Governor, Lieutenant Go
n vernor, and their refpedtive suites, and o
n thers specially admitted, who will compara
-0 tively, be very few) no person will attempt
e in any way, to pass into the limits of the
navy yard.
J The reason of this reqfieft is obviously to i
r, ; prevent interrupfion or confufion which might i
be injurious or ruinous to the a£t of launch- -1
s ing ; which will be critical, under the molt :
. favorable circumstances, and indispensably re- i
n quiring perfect silence and obedience to or- 1
1 ders. Independent of this conclusive reason, i
t the danger of encroaching fpe&ators would |
be imminent from the occasional and abrupt I
. falling of bodies used in the conftrudtion of (
l the ship ; a conformity therefore to this re- 1
quest, is earnestly solicited. i
, ' Itl9 . fu g?efted, as the tide will be full, t
f that it wojild be necefiary to the fafety of \
the fpedtators, particularly women and chil- <
> dren, that they do not approach in crouds I
j too near the margin of the contiguous
r wharves, as the sudden entrance of so large
. a body as the frigate, will occasion an inftan
> taneousfwell of the water the height of which ;
i cannot be easily calculated,and again (I which, n
. therefore, the discretion of the people ought v
. amply to guard,
It is regretted, in this instance, that the c
yard and the places around it, are too con- y
. traded for an occasion which will probably ii
) excite so much desire, and in which all the
[ citizens have so much interest ; it is there
f fore submitted to those who can make th* b
. arrangement, to place themselves in vessels, a
, or water crafts, at due distance, upon the pro- h
. file or fide of the Frigate, but by no means p
too near, either in a right line or otherwise, a
as the direction may be uncertain, nor to load
i open boats too deeply, as the agitation of
. the water even at a considerable distance,
may be somewhat hazard us.
It is also recommended to those who eredt c
. stages to accommodate fpedtators, that they o
have them secured in every refpedt, as the J
! lofsoflife of a single citizen, would mar the lj
fatisfadtion and pleasure that the conftrudtOr
. etherwife would enjoy, of building and con- si
dudting into the ocean, z powerful agent of u
. national justice, which hope didtates may be- t(
come the just pride and ornament of the A- fj
merican name. c '
GEORGE CLAGHORN. tl
V
NEW-YORK, September 2i. C
A British gentleman writes from Port-au- si
Paix, August 21. bi
" I was taken the 9th off the Mole on my 01
way to America, and brought in here—l am
on my parole, and hope soon to be exchang- ai
ed, as a change of condudt for is di
expedted ; Santhonax having failed from at
hence for France on Saturday last, in an In- at
diaman." ,' gj
b'
• sHE LAND OF LIBERTY!! in
A CURIOSITY ce
Just arrived from Cape Mount, on the ci
windward coast of Africa, the ship Ageno- ti
ria, Edward Bois, master, with a prime car- th
go of afTorted SLAVES. The sale of fe
which will commence on Monday, the 21ft of
inlt—Conditions then made known. in
ROBERT WATTS. fti
Savannah, 10th August, 1797. an
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE, pa
Continued. ha
\ dl "
PARIS, Augnfl 5. wr
General Pichegru had his pocket picked pr<
df his watch in the Jardin d ; ltalie, while
walking by the fide of the Ottoman am
bassador.
ItATISBON, July 20. '* ha:
There appears reason to apprehend the Hi
molt violent discussions in the Diet here, on ma
the fubjedt <>f the articles of peace conelud- bu
ed between the emperor and the French re- tin
public. From the moment of signing the Svi
preliminaries, the emperor has kept the W
most profound iilence as to "their contents ; int
! the French "announced that their republic nol
was acknowledged in all its integrity, which tea
J gave the greatest uneasiness to the princes we
j and states, whose territory had been declar- W
;ed an integral part of the French republic, al
; It was only 011 the 22d of June tha% the th(
1 imperial cabinet notified to the diet that oni
• the preliminaries had been signed, an event ly
j which took place at Leobeii, on the 18th be.
■ April. The form of this imperial decree, Di
1 the equivocal expreflions which are contain- vvh
jcd in ic, and a certain tone of eoibarrafT- cili
' tnent which prevails througTioirt It, were
d not vary well calculated to raise the spirits
r of men.* The bishop of Liege, among
>. others, having applied t!> his imperial ma
h jelly to know, whether after the-concfufron
of the peace he should enter into the pot
r feffiori of his bilhoprick, received the sol
- lowing laconic and at the fame time Jcfiiti
- cal reply ; << That the integrity of the
e empire had been adopted as the basis of the
', treaty of peace to be concluded between
!- France and the empire.'' This answer,
e which to short-sighted men may appear fa
s tisfa&ory, only served to increase the uitea
s finefs of those who look forward' at alriy
0 diflanee.
Add to this, the good undcrflanding
f which prevails between the court of Vienna
f and the French government, and the fecu
-1 rity of the latter as to the possession nf its
- new department. The following incident
f is however deserving of attention :—Seve
- ral dates of the empire have officially an
nounced to the diet, that the German bo
i dy, fully confident of the wifdam and mag
nanimity of their chief head, entreats him
to accept an absolute authority to conclude
a peace. We are aflurfd that the ecclesi
astical prince who brought forward this at
the dfet, afied sincerely, but was betrayed
3 into the measure by others more artful than
f himfelf, whose reasoning was this : "If
3 the emperor has really obtained a stipulation
- for the integrity of the empire, he will ac
cept the offer with great readiness, as it
: will add to the glory of the house of Au
stria, but if not he will rejeft it." This
- very circumstance has caused the tmperor
to express himfelf diflatisfied with one of
his commiflioners, who supported the pro
position.
Ihe solution of the enigma is now whif
• pered—notwiftanding tl\e pafiVge in the im
perial decree, which secures ihe integrity
' of the empire, the imperious force of cii
cumftances renders it neceflary to construe
■ - this sentence as applying to the constitution,
and not to the territory of the empire, and
it is with reason apprehended, that some of
■ the prelacies wilLbe secularized. This will
, necefTarily produce complaints in the diet,-
I Ind protests on the part of the injured
■ itates; but it will not be difficult for the
emperor's, ministers to juftify their mailer,
by shewing what he his done, as his /hare
in this dreadful war, and, by appealing to
the princes and dates individually, to know
whtther each of them has done all |J)at he
■ could, and that he ought to have done, on
his part.
• \
ROME, July 7.
The agitation here, as well as in the other
parts of the estates of the church, conti
nues to be very great f The pope yesterday
went from the Vatican to the Quirinal Pa
lace, without acclamation and without
croud. He may yet survive his illness some
years, and the people are not deftrous of
innovation.
A letter is in circulation here, written
by gefferal Buonaparte to cardinal Mattci,
at Terrara, in which the general fays, that
he is daily invited to Rome to the peo
ple there better laws, and a constitution
more agreeable to the rights of man.
BRUSSELS, Jnly 31.
The following are the most certain ac
counts of the marches and countermarches
of the troops of the army of the Sambre and
Meufe towards the interior of the Repub
lic.
Some days ago an order arrived for cau
sing all the troops, as well as the artillery
who had pafTcdtheancient frontiers ofFrance
to retreat. Several corps began according
ly to retreat, but on tha 27th of July there
came very prefling orders from" Paris, for all
the troops to march into the interior of the
Republic. A column which had come from
Charleroi.to Namur, set off without reding,
for Givet apd all the troops in the 'neigh
bourhood and* the Park of artillery set off
on the fame night for the interior.
It may be asked why these troops, who
are said to be destined for a maritime expe
dition, carry with them such a quantity of
artillery and warlike stores? why they are
accompanied by flying artillery, by four re
giments of horse chasseurs, by dragoons and
by hussars? Without answering all these
important queflions, we can only fay, as a
certain fadl, that attempts are made to ex
cite the troops against part of the Legisla
tive Body. Wherever the detachments of
the army of the Sambre and Meufe have pas
sed, they have (hewn the mod dreadful want
of discipline, pillaging their hods, ill ufu-
I ing them, and when the latter complained,
stigmatizing them with the names of Chou
ans and Royalids. (
They write from Mavy, that the Munici- i
pal Adminidration of the Canton of Ballon 1
has caused it to be proclaimed by found of !
drum, that all the Citizens (hall declare in (
writing the Religion which they refufe to (
profefs. " <
BASLE, Jilly 25.
\ ' a
We are assured that Gtneral Buonaparte a
has tedified discontent at the refufal of the t
Helvetic Body relative to the passage de- 1
mawded through the Valais. It is even said c
but that wants confirmation, that tie has in- J,
timated a resolution to force this passage, if 0
Switzerland (hall not consent to grant it. '*
We know not why this General is so much *'
intereded about this passage, which Would
not be very ufeful to his army, and why he a
teazes the Swiss so much to obtain it; for a
we can hardly believe, as the friends of Mr. F
Wickham would insinuate, that the Goner
al is desirous of a pretence to intermeddle in a
the affairs of Switzerland, and to revoluti- j.
onize some Cantons, who are not very friend- n
ly to popular tumults. However that may
be, the Swiss confide in the promise of the a
Directory, and in the vifdora of Bsrthelemy c
who so well possesses the rare talent of con- 5
ciliating inlte d of esafpetating. 1,
* ©ajctte.
n PHILADELPHIA,'
FRIDAY EVENING, September 11.
CITV HOS PIT AT REPO RT,
e From the 2id to 22d Sept. in the morning.
e Admitted, since lad report,
n Andrew M'Kew—Gordon M'Neal's Small
■ f dreet.
- Alex. Henry—Walnut, corner 4th dreet.
- John Chapman—B7,/South Water dreet.
y Margaret 1 lbbs—Saint's, 6, Vernon dreet.
Ann Potter—South, near 4th dreet.
y Margaret Guer^n — : -2d, between Spruce &
a Dock-dreetj
Sarah Fi(her—No. 35, Almond-drcet
3 Eflher Lauufon—Harris's, South, above
t sth dreet. v
■_ Caty Culinel— 2, near Rope-walks.
Discharged, iince lad report,
John Kifney, admitted 16th inft.
. Elizabeth
e Remaining lad Report 51
. Admitted iince, y
i 60
I Discharged 2
f NONE —— 2
. Five of whom are dangerous,
s Interred in City Hospital burying ground
r since lad report :
f From the city and suburbs 9
From the city hospital None.
Total 9
Stephen Girard,
(Signed) Caleb Lownes,
John Connelly.
: Published by order of the Board,
Wm. MONTGOMERY,
[ Chairman pro tern.
1 Total of luriah for 24 hours, ending yefler
day at noon.
Grown Person». Childr n.
Third Prefbyteri.m « . o
Second frsfbyterijn I o
St. Mary's o I
Methodists I o
City Hospital* 1 o
Total 5 I
* From the city and fuburls. \ '
D ied, this morning, Mr. James Carey, '
Clerk to Mr. Andrew Brown, Editor of the
Philadelphia Gazette.
A Hint to the Citizens of Philadelphia.
THIS day, about two o'clock in the af
ternoon, a fire was discovered to be burning
in a large quantity of shingles, in Mr. Stog
den's board yard, a little above Callowhill
dreet, in the Nothern Liberties. It being
seen by the fmoak, as soon as it began to
burn, by the alertness of the inhabitants it!
was soon extinguished. Matches were found i
which it had been kindled with, and brought i
to my office. There is no doubt with me, 1
but it was done to set Are to the neighbour- 1
hood, as one half of the people are moved
out of it.
JOSEPH COWPERTHWAIT
September, 21.
Tie following is tie notice taken iy Bachc a parsgrafb
in ll r tdnefJa\ t Gazette.
" To ije an objei* of the abuse of an hireling
tvretdjy capable of iuch. sentiments as the foreg*>inu
difclofcj, i# an honor to a republican ; w* fliali j
therefore always fee happy when Fenno ihall pleafc ;
to favor us with a portion of his billingsgate. But 1
the abenre paragraph d i'erves to be conficUrcd in j
another view. John Fcnno's preft is patronised by |
this jfov.ernment ; he is the printer for one of the ,
highest branch# of it,—the Senate : Will it npt !
be considered then, that he speaks their sentiments; •
and, if so, vhp.t are we to e*pe£l from France, j
ihould a counter-revolution and the
ment of Royalty toot take ptecc. Publications such
as the foregoing, arc well calculated to rcurifh the
4ifquietode wliic #xirts between this country and
France, and to leidto a rupture ; they are no doubr,
therefore, ivell paid for, —by Mr. Ljston. We
mcution this consideration in exculpation of our
jjovemmcu; (whom we do not think capable of (
p/jompting luch diabolical ientimCMs) that the true
source of them may be ufiderftood abroad, to be
Entifh, and not to come from our executive admin- 1
illration, who by th.ir countenance of Fenno's 1
press might appear implicated." F
It is, to be sure, little better than wafting time *
and room to notice such paltry jargon : But one r
ca.inot refrain from contempt at feeing this black c
guar.l, affe<ft to set i-p for the " exculpator" of a gov- c
ernmsnt, which he makes it the \vh6le business of r
his life to weaken, defame 8c destroy. A very great 1<
degres of irvconfillency and puerility, f
are prime r<?quiGtes in the charader of a Ja-obii-.
This pooh, filly, emaciated dupe of French villainy, ii
fuems to think, that to repel an accusation, it is on- ft
lyrcccfTary to retort it. It appears never to have p
entered into his addled brain, that a difference of a;
circumstances makes a between ca- ft
fcs. Editor of advoca
ted the cause of one belligerent power, in oppofi- r
| tion to the ether, little was said, beqmfe men are j c
I liable to - •
considering cur neutral fi/uation* But to JI
continue that 'attachment under the immenle '
change which has since taken place j an-1 not only
to continue {imply the attachment, but, vigorously J. 3
to efpcule,and zealously to uphold, a cause degen
erated to downright piracy, robbery, and murder,
aiter we ourselves have become tfye obje&s of these Cl
atrocities, too ; under thtfe circumstances, 1 fay. Tv
the man who can have the hardihood to encounter
the indignation of all his fellow-citizens, and the th
contempt of all mankind, for a base, unnatural, pr
patricidal villain, mufi be well paid for his infa
mous services. 'lhe lufpicLun is natural—And the fci
objed confirius it by every movement he makes ni
With regard to John Fenno, though he poflefs not xi\
the lady-like fqucamifbnefs of citizen Baehe,
fads have ever been adduced by this mifera'bletool m
of the mod abandoned fadion that ever riifgr?ceri j^ (
a free country, in ot his often reiterated
accusations of a difpofitiun to favor Royalty ? John *
Fenno, atfheercliefl daw n of the KcVolytron, cm
braced the standard cf revolt, and by his writing
and hi.adtual ferviers, as I.brieve, essentially co
operated »n aiding-th. 1 progress
He ferr; c! as a voiantecr jn thefix ft American dr ce
my that ever was luifed, more thau oncefacri- J n
ficed his fortune by Jxh att chnient to the cause, a Wl
a time when this hale truducer was an infant in hi ar
cradle, or perhaps t»ven yet Nay liier"
every qiale of his fan: b, wr .out an excrptii n j a
bore arms in the cause of their country,and sou Jit
her lutt!e& v\i;h diftinguifaea repuiancn, and lev
■ era ' °f them Med in her ftrvie. whe- in tn« army
oriiavy, »ed*en J ;ir dfko piinsaad fufferi gs of a
throe years cejt-iv-ty, in the sonar- houfesof ■ New-
Wrk, in the , Ttffcv >rifon-lhip, and am : dfl tbs
lonthfome flench of the tender's hold, while the
poetailer, Fi cncau,.' was idly dwuntlnst, in
fulfMne »nd.lc3i?tn Aiaica, the horrors of the pti~
"* '""-Oup.or uniting; lazy-lajfging.rhymesf.ir newf
b*viand hjwlcors. Two had, while alive';.the
„ prculi.ir boafV ot fe.-'ving through ths vvHote war.
from the hawk- of 1 ejington to the of York
town Amliiis fftth a; rain ■« litis day tofcere--
proac'-ed with ntfcchOMnt to Royalty, by an.up
itait birehng ?, f:\f^a i to difcrjminate rightly, the
■t. worn Rsylifm, is Jacobinicalty applied to those ac
•t. 'f " tO . tl,e »«>d order of society, and to
t the exiffmg form of government.- The Jacobins
hate all joveritmert alika. and their chief aim is to
make affitalhacfcles. Joh-7 Fenno, like many o
& thers, havr g fesn the consequences of mobocraey,
through a long- course of and/<r.V its
(in being forcibly feizeJ and very roughly handled
ve by sn armed and hwlefs banditti, upon a falfe
accusation of keeping in his poflefiion a largtquail
tuy of pepper at a time when that article bore a
high price,) (eels a natural and inherent attachment
to a government which secures to each citizen a
t. proteflion of person, and whk,h lit labored for
t -Tty.y/ars (o acquire. In defence of the Federal
conftitotion,?gain(l the government-hatingfaction,
. ' n repelling the assaults of the foreign aftd domsftic
1 . re P ro ' ,a tir!g t're violences of Britain, an i
g 111 laboring to open the eyes of the people to the
_ treicnerous and mrsticalcourfes artd ultimate hher
ticide views of the terrible republic, he has uni
formly and cnnftantly facrificed the plained dilates
u ' Ktere "' at £ ' le fi ,r ' n 6 of patriotism— WithloeJ
2 the menaces, and in more indances thin one, the
_ open afTaults of the bloody domestic affaflin—arid
never fuppreffeJ the TRU ill, through a fear,wor
-8 thy only of an acknowledged coward, of " nour
ilhing the disquietudes" of a murderous band of %
foreign
d Such is the plain ana simple fiatc of fs<3s with
regard to this mltchlefs royalist I this man whom
d'forganizers would fain pl&ure as a foe to public
l.berty. Hough and awkward indeed, they may
appear as here, slated—But this 1 regard r.ot. It is
time to have doni with rameaefs toward* that ncsa
„ rious and detestable failion, who want nothing
h but . ,he power f" a& over in America the scenes'
which have passed in France; to get the guillo
tm j way, and ro critfh virtu--, honesty .ai#
patriotism by pretended conspiracies the
people.
It is an etTn ial link in this chain to render fuf
pedled all tbafe. who by fup.rior purity of cji r ic
ter, or known uprightncfs of views am™ motives,
are 'uppofe 1 to have a weight or influence with the
pabl.c and thus to oppose a barrier to their defifrns.
I know not whethei I {hall be thanked fev f&g
---u £&"£ thife things into public notice. Dae this I
l.now. they are f.lCK—.And tired and vexed with
tne repetition of unfounded and designing calum
nies. I have at length ventured thus to refute them
by a simple flatement, under circumstances attend
ed with the less impropriety, because I know that
at any other time these fails would befupprelTed.
J- Vs. F.
V-
COMMUNICATION. '
, The very great number of persons wh<»
e continually Ru(h out of existence in eonfe*
qucnee of violent treatment, one would
think, ought to ftaggdr the faith of the man
of blood, and his young devotees. But it is
. a melancholy truth that they are for the mod
r part full blood philosophers, of the Frcnfch.
. lethool, who once embraced a phan
-1 ta{ V» adhere to it with a vigour en
r creased in a direfb proportion as fa£l and
\ experience prove its baneful effefts, ✓
t! *" 1 —■—
[! CUSTOM-HOUSE,
1 I Philadelphia, Sept. nd. 1707.
I 1 THE Merchants who at this time prefer hav
ing their veffeli and Merchandize entered and
cleared at Chefttr or Marcua Hack,—are here
by notified, ThatWh compliance with their dc- >
' f nd upon a fu " cor.victon that the meafiire
Will be mutually beneficial to them and to the
1 United States. The colleflor of the cuftomshas
! arrangements to eftahlifli for some time '
' , branches of the cunoin-hnufe at those places,
WieVe tvtry accommodati.in in his power will
be given to the merchants. r] tw
i| %* A special Meeting of the*
lclea and common Councils of \he City of
l|hi!a<!e»p»iu, lS to be held at the Pennsylvania
I hospital on Tuesday the i/ith inft. at 9 a'chck
; in the morning on bufintffs of Impottance, at
which place.it is hoped the memheis will at
j t'-nd—the Hospital being of the prevailing •
FRANCIS GURNEY, Prefideut
, of the fel-»st f«uncii-
SAMUEL HODGDON, Prefi
-nJent of the common council,
Pent. 22
1o be Sold-at Public Vendue, ~
ON Friday the jcjth instant, precisely at three
o'clock in the afienioou, at the figT of the
king of Prussia, near the market house in (Jer
mantown, a two (lory stone dwelling honfe,barn
and liable and lot of 2 aires zq 16 perches of
ground, part of which is an orchard of excellent
fruit tree;, fitjiate near the middle of German
town, on the north east fide of the main street
or road, containing in front on the said street
or road 1,49 feet nine inches; bounded by ground
ot' Dr. Bctton arid others and opposite to the
mefTuage and lot of Melchior Ming, The above
lot is £ood clover meadow, and has a never
failing stream of water running through it.
Also three other iots oi ground, each contain
ing about two acrefs, situate on the south east
Ode 0! Rjtteiihoufc's Mill road,commonly called
Peter Smith's Line, in Germantown township,
at the distance of 270 yards from the l'outh i\elt
fide of the Germantown main street, bounded
by lands of Conrad Carpenter, James Oglebv,
JacobKeout, and Melchioc Ming. The above
lots are high and pleasantly frtuated, eommand-
J ing a pleasing profpeiSl of Germantown and the
Schuylkill and WifTahircon hills, and are well
adapted for gentlemen's country leats. The
said lots are now in clover, and there ar* on th<?
fame upwards of 100 grafted friut-tr£es.
A g«od and indisputable title, clear.of all in-
will be given to the p»irchafer
twenty days after the sale, upon the payment
of cne half of the purchaf; money, and fearing
the rirher half by mortgage upon the purchased
premises.
PofTelfion ef the firft described lot and premi
ses ir.ay be had. the 17th April next, aid inn
niediaie pofTeflion may be had of the thiee lafl
mentioiled lot=.
Any .perftm, wifhlnj.to view the above pre
miles may fee the fame b) app'fying to Bcnj.
Lehman, 1n Oirmarilown near the ,%'arket
ED iVARD FOX, AuSioncer.
Germantown, aid Sept. 1797. dtS
Mr. L4.ILSON, "
WITH an intention to render service, and ufede
ceivc those Performers, who during his absence Mr.
Jaythond has thought PTBpftfcjp eiwoMfc. thinks it
would be wrong in him not to i;^f»iTtW»-ihac
are engaged, that it lswichou. his approbation, -
:ha't he will not be in any way aufwerahle for Mr
jaymond's e'iigagen:cnt».
PHILIPPE LAILSON.
AncsmirU, S:f. Is, iT)h fct.H-E DOLLARS REWARD.
AN away frort f'ne fiibfariber, an indented |
IX. (Servant Girl, rj'n-.cd Naxcv ». NDrnsoN, a- J
Vnr't twenty yiars of see, fh'ort, thick fct person,
With (hoi i black hair ; hi.i on when'{he Went away, A
,1 tfark calico gown, an old b'ack (ilk cloak, and a
1 fur llat. Wfc'oeVer will ftcure said girl, ana
viv? information thereof to tfce l'ubtgriber, No. 2, I
Gieenleaf alley, or to the office of this Gazette, th
Ihall rec-ivc thfr above reward- _ di
All perfens are i'or'uid harborirjg fuid girl, as tr
tJiov Will be dealt with ns the law directs Tl
MARY ANDERSOK t
N. B. Said Girl is from Ireland, a(id his been ia
Mns country but a fhqrt time ; flic vv.<s hnt to the
Wirk-hotife for milconduft, where We was taken
fck -_tid removed to tb"-> city-hofpit.d> from which
pluce flie made her escape.
Awtf 30. fo^
16 be ibid at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the lign of the Indian
Q-een, in the city of Baltimore, on the 25th
day of nejtt, at ii o'clock, A. M
Ah<y\t seven thouland acres of land,
the property of V illiam Bell, of Philadelphia >
lying between Reifter's-town and Weftminltfcr,
commonly called Little Wincbefter, (the turn
pike road runs through a conliderable part of
t HfVi lands) the traft begins about 17 miles
from P.jltimofe, within a few hundred yards
of said Reifter's-town, and extends to the dis
tance of about twenty-three milts from Balti
more, and liect cm the main fall« of Patapfico <
river,, from three to four miles thereon. Will
He fold in tradts of due hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tioii'ot meadow and wood land 011 each traift,
l'onie of them highly improved, with excellent
building' wd fine gnfs.
Atso
A tra£l of seven hundred acres of r
land, called Clover Farms, withili five miles of K
3*!adenlhur,x, esteemed very good fcr Grass. b
Richard Ponfonbf jof Blatler.(burgh, will (hew <j
this land to auy person inclined to purchase. |{;
ALSO, !•
A traft of land of about three hufl
dred and thirty acres, within abdilt t\»p miles
and a half o the Present's hoilft in the Fede- ;
ral City. It is neirly all weed land, and a fine
hih propped), fron. which may be Icep the |
city of V'afhingtcn, Bladenfourgh, Alexandria 1
and a part of George-town, and many miles ,
dowd t"he Potornacriver. Mr. Richard Ponlon- ,
bv. of Bladenlburg, will all'., shew thislaDd. j .
A liberal credit will be given for the greatrft ] j
part of tbt pt'rchafe money. Ihe terms will t
be made known on the day ef Tale. ,
May 8 c
just Received, i
. From Batavia (via Providence) '
a few Box»sof Spices, confiding of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Milce
For sale by
KILLINGS'd FRANCIS,
Penn street. j
May 3d ]
Davis's Law Book Store, ,
No. Jl9l High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS, ;
BEING hufied for, time past in prepara
tions for /em >ving into o>3 present house, has ]
been under thenecelfityof ppftpooinguntil thisdajr
informing th.: gentlemen ofthe Bar generally thro' j
the United States, that his ffring importation of ]
law books is now arranged and ready for (ale, on
terms that he traits will entitle him to the like pre
fftenco he has experienced for fcveral years pall.
Catalogues, combining the mod varied collec
tion ever imported iiito this couutry, are printed
and will be delivered 011 application.
June »7. saw 6w
City Commijjioners' Office,
Ju'lf a*, 1797-
TN pursuance cf an ordinance from the feledt
1 and common councils, pafled the 2id day of
May lart, appointing the city conimiifioners,
and nrtferibing tht'ir duties, fcflion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diSriifls,
each to b-r under the lupcrintendance of one of
the city commifiioners, whoislobe individoilly
relponiible for the cleanlinefoof the fame, and
are as follow.
Driftrifl No. t. From the south fide of.Ce
dar-flreet, to the north fide ofSpruce-ftreet,un
derthe fuperiatendence of Nathan Boys.
l. From the north fide of Sjiruce-ftreet, to
the north fide of Walnut-street, under the super
intendence of Hugh Roberts.
3. Frcm the north'fide of Walnut tothefouth
fide < f.High-ftreet, under the fuperintendenbe of
Jofepb Clavpoole.
4. From'the north fide cf High-street, tothe'
north fidi'4'f Mulberry street, under the fuper
inttndence ef William Moulder.
5. prom the north fideof Mulberry-street so
the north lide of Vine-street, under the super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
Thecieaningof High-street to* e in common.
■fy A stated meeting of the city commtflion
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High
flreet, every Tuesday tvening at s o'clock
July T4. eoim
Stands for Draymen, csY.
lit pur/uancc of an Ordinance from tbeSelefl and
Common Councils,bearing date the 22d day of
April, 1797, providing for the appointment of
City Commissioner;, c. Sect, the ij th.
THE following places are fixed upon by the
said City Commifiioners for Stands for
Draymen and their Horfei.
In Vine-street, caftward of Front-street, on
both fides.
Safiafras, High.Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eastward ot Front-street, on the no,-th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide frcm Front to
Third-street.
Front-llrcat, east fide from Vine-street to
EKiith's al^ey-
Fmrrt-ftreet, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's (tore v east fide.
Water-ftrect, weft fide from the north end of
Stomper's or Moore's ftpres to Pine-llreet.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ceiar-llrett, weft
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Froiit-ftrect,
Spiuce, Pine *-1 South flreets, east of Frost
street, south i'de.
Dock-street, between Walnat-ftrcet and the
(lag ftor.e croflifigs, fide, opposite George
Orklev's. '
Second-ftrest, between SaflVras and Vine
flreets weft fide.
fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berrv ftrects. , „
SaTafras-ltreet, from Thud to Fourth-street,
east fide- . .
No dray or horse to (land wiunn fenteet ot
'"ItjTDS FOR HACKNET COACHES.
Pine-street, nojj> Sds from Fourth to Fifth
Fifth-ftreet, between CheCrtut and alnut
north fide, between Third and
Fourth streets.
July 14. mw&fim
A Literary Treat.
Just published, handfomety printed tin writing
paper, price I dofl:ir,
A new edition of that populaj' and'entertaining
work v entitled
rHF. FORESTERS, an Americir Tale ; being '
a sequel to the hiilory of Jiiha the Clo
thier—ln aferies of lcttef-3 to a friend, with the ad- St
ditioiv of two letter?, alluding to recent political
iranfaitions in America.
This following ex*tr i 3 from the Claris Ailagorica,
feews the principal chara6lers that are introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of f ngland
His Mother, the Clurch of England
His Wife, the Pailiament
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis, the K'ngdom of France
H.if Miftrefe, the Old Constitution
His r.6w Wife, the National Rcprefentation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
>iichol,ts the Dutch Republic
Tijc Franks, the French Republic '5
The Farellers, the United States of Amii iis
RolV'rt Lumber, New-Hamplhire
John Codline, Massachusetts ? j
Humphrey Plowfiiare, ConneSicut
Rqger Carrier, Rhode Island , $c
l J eter Bull Frog, New-York
Julius Csfar, New-Jerfcy
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania tit
Cadimar, Delaware th
Walter Virginia bl
His Grandson, Oeotge Walhingtoa
Peter Pitch, North Carolina oi
Charles Indigd, *'pp:k Carolina be
George Trusty, Georgia et
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky th
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves W
Rats, Speculators le
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins fq
.J}" This popular and entertainingfatiricalhifla- tv
ry of Amotica is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel- fj;
knap It hasa graat (hare of originality and a- w
bonnds with genuine humour, it is continued til
1 down to the present time, and chara&erifes those J.
i late political tianfaflions which have caused so b,
much u«eafi(iefs 111 America. ir
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16, e l
South Second Street, audNo. 50, Marke» ftaeet.
| June»6., 5.
LAW BOOKS,
1 Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Booksellers,
j No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market (Ireetj
HAVE just received by the late arrivals (rom C
London and Dublin, theii fpTtng imports- 1
tion, confiding of a variety of the Itfett and mod
approved Law Books, whicV, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the moftextenlive colledion ev
er ofTeredfor sale in thi3 country. 1 hey theiefore
beg leave to notiix, that from the nature of their
connefiirnsin Dublin, they are enabled to fclllrlfii
editions (as thfcy have hitherto at the vet y f
lowest prices. The following are among the lault 1
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 2 \-.t. t
Peake's Cases at NiG Prius ; Rndgeway's Reverts I
in the time of Lord Hardwicks ; Floyer's Proflcrs 1
Pra&ice in the Eccleftaftical Courti ; Barton's I
Trcalife on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Pradice of i
the Court of King's Bench ill Personal Ailions, t I
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, 12 vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rice expe<sl t» receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of I
Durftlord and Eaft'u Reports, the 2d part of Gil
bert's I.aw of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 16.
The Hiflory of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
Ig now in the press, and will be published,
with all convenient expedition, by Zi cha
■ *1 AH I'iiulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftrett,
Philadelphia, where lubferiptions will continue
to be received, and it she Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed pro|Kfals, until the
wprk is ready for the fubfcribern.
July 18. lawtf
Printed Calicoes.
#
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
r No. 8 Chfjnut-Strect,
1 Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly aflbrted, very low on
- Ihort credit.
March 6. §___
, Richard and yatnes Potter
HAVF. removed tWeir Counting Hoofe to No.
45, South Fttth-ftrcet.
1 uguft a.- w&f6t
f Lancaster, llarrifrurgb Carlijle,
e ' Shtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES. -
1
_ r_ | _ 'HE public are requested to take notice, that'
JL the partnerlhip which has far some time fub
u filled bctwe»a Mathias SWngh of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now difl'olvcd . but, not as M.
Slough infinuatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je& from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
- December lad. a recital of which is not now deem
ed neceflary. Any who wilhes to be
j more circumstantially inUrmed of the merits of
r this bufineft, by applying to W. Geer may have
r the perusal «f M. Slough's letter, and thtn can be
' at full liberty to determine whether or no - . W.
Geer is not perfectly juftifiahie in attaching him
lc felf to aDy other person in the profctution of the
,r Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
in Now from the liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firll tfTort in
s > this business, VC'illlam Geer, in qonjundion with
y- Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
to lie can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
il- with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
ps thofi? wnu wifb to patronise and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
■ft George Weed's, the sign of the White Hocfc,
Marktt Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and- Shippeniburg. The fare as hitherto
'eftabMpied;
For th-- further accommedation of the public,
a Stage will ftirt every Wednesday from the houl'c
of Samuel FJder, in Harrilburg, arrive at Sun
burl/ in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
ne and return fronvtlicnce and arrive at Harrifbnrg
'every Saturday, so that passengers destined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed o« Mon
•V dajs ' WILLIAM GEER.
I.ancafler. Jan. 27, 1797-
°* N. C. This Lire ot' Stages starts from ths
hou'fe of William Ferrac, in Ltncaftcr, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
'h ceedibg to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Eld.r in Harnfburg every WodneX
ut (j a y niormng, on the fame evening arrives at Pal
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
id from thence on every Thursday : "erforrnmg the
fame routin« daily as in its »cur from Philadel
phia. t mwf
City or Wellington. J
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11.
For the Improvement of the Federnl L.ity.
A -magnificent dwelling-hoal'c «>>ceo dollars,
St ftjlh jO,ooo, ire 50,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cafli 15,000 40,000
I ditto j5,000 & cifh 15> oot> 30,000
x ditto 10,000 & cash ia,ooo 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash '5,000 10,000 I
1 ditto 5,000 & ca!h 5,000 ro.iioo
1 cafkprireof 10,000 r
. i do. 5,000 each, are « 10,000
it) do. i,OOOI * 10,000 .
»o dp. 500 - - Jo,ooo ''
00 d 6. 100 - • 10,000
a.)O ijo. rs - - 10,000 J
4 0 do. if - • :0,000
1,000 do. ao - 10.000 j r
15,003 do. 10 - i5»,ooo 2
16,7.59 Prizes. p
33,»6i Rlanks. J:
5c,000 Tickets, at Eight Dtillirt, 400,000 b
N. B. To favour thofc who may take a quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars wdl be
the 1. <st drawn ticliet, and the 30,060 the last
but oni :
,And approved notes, securing paytrent in either
oionty or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
he received for any number not lefsthan ,10 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpecimcn of
cheprivate buildings to he ertSed in the City ®f
Washington—Two beautiful defisjas sie already
leledfed for the entire fronts on two of the public
fcjuares; from these drawiogMtispropofcd toerefl .
two centre and r oi»r comer buildings as soon as pos
sible after this lottery is fold, and to tonvey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventursrs, in S
the manner deferibed in the fcher.ie for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necefTary expenles of print
ins:, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of (
the fund intended for the National Univerljty, to <
he ettcled within the city of Washington. c
real l"e«uritie«given for the payment of the j
are heliby th • President and two Direfl
or« of the' Bank of Columbia, and are valued at j
iuorethan half the amount of the lottery. c
SAMUEL BLODOET. a
,§, Tickets may be had at the Bank el Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Fetet
Oilman, Boflon ; of John Hspkins, Richmond ;
inrl «f Richard Wul'.s, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf |
From the Gtfao Herald.
CAUTION. \
WHEREAS a combination of men in this ,
county have undertaken to enrich th«m- t
felves,by fabricating titles to fundi / valuable trads I
of land, the'property of gentlemen living in New j c
Yoik, Philadelphia, London and Paris, for Which 1 <
of hnd large funis of money have been paid 1 1
to those fraudulent men, by innocent purchasers 1
It is therefore just thit public information lhould '•
be given, to-the end, that the injured may seek re- '
drel'j while the men have property, and are to be
found. Those who have bean discovered are Tru
tnan Harrifon, Joseph Witcomb, said now to re
side in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and
several otheri who go under fiflitions names. It Is
supposed that the lands offered fcr faleon-thofe fa- ,
bricated titles, are at lead worth fifty thousand 1
dollars. Such as we have aiftual knowledge of are |
as follows : Lots No. II and IZ, Otfego patent,
thousand acres each, the aiiual property ot William j
Delhlv)!!, row of London ; lots No. 58 and 64, j
fame patent, thousand acres each, the prrperty of
Mr. Chaumont, now of Paris, and lames Avenll
and others, ot this State. There is some grounds
to suppose that the lands of Richard Wells and
Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their
management. —1 he Printers will do well to give
. this a place in their papers, as well to caution the
public against purchasing tHose lands, as also to de- j
' prive those men M future from imposing on indivi
dual, which their education and addrels have en
abled them to do heretofore. Witcomb has been
a shopkeeper of some note in this country.
The following affidavits will'fct in a clear point
of view the wickedness of those men, which whsn
tlje public have perused, will induee them to ex
cuse the'interference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfcgo, July 48th, * 7>7.
1 Thomas Kelly, of the County of Otfego, hav
„ ing been led into-in error, by John Witcomb and
Truman Harrifon, of the fame County, to figii a
deed to them, for lot No. 58, O'fcgo patent, which
was the property of William 1 Franklin now Mr.
Chamont's and others imd further the said Joieph
and Truman did pcrfuade me to do this against my
inclination, which was made out 011 the icth day
of November, 1793, or set hack two ycats so as
_ to bring it' to that time ; and further the name of
Pardon Starks to that deed was a fictitious nam.',
> there being no focli perlon there. To this I make
voluntary oath. THOMAS KELLY.
19th July, 1797.
On th? 19th July, 1797, came personally before
me. Thopias Kelly, the fuhfcnber to the above af
at' Javit, afnd made solemn oath that it contains noth
>- ing tut ilu truth.
d ELIHU PHINNEY, Justice of the Paacc.
1- On the 18th July, 17«7. came before me Jacob
; Kibby, a perirei by me well kuown and worthy of
V* good credit, v.'ho on his solemn oath did fay, that
h two of the parties abovementioneii did make ap
-- phcation to him thit deponent, some time in the
>e winter of 1796, to make them a deed for twothou
of sand a«*r«s of land in the Otego patent, and pro
'C mifed this deponent a (hare of tlie profits, on the
>e sale of said lands, for his so doing ; and th .t they
I. madeapplicationfeveral times for the feme purpole,
1- which iVrvicts this deponent as often refufed, de
le daring to them that he had no right t,o lands, and
f- could do no such thing ; which daring attempt 011
thisd«ponent's integrity he had related among his
le friends several times, previous to makinc this afli
in davit. JACOB KIEBLY.
th Sworn before me,
:d ELIHU PHINNEY, Justice of the Peace,
.t- Aug. iaw4w.
b " Thirty Dollars Reward.
sd T? LOPED from the service of the fubferiber,
to -t-J on the 19th instant, a negro man by the
m name of DICK, about twenty-five years of age,
he and five feet nine or ten inches high; by trade
at a carpenter, and is a very lively briflc work
fc, man. His countenance is very good—When
a y spoken to, he converses with ea(e and confi
*!?.' dence, and is pretty sagacious. I purchafcd
t0 the said fellow of Mr. Dubney Minor, in whole
name hf has been advertised in.the Richmond
newfpaptrs. During his last runaway trip (lift
llc summer) he was employed a considerable length
of time, by some person neai- pumt'ries, from
which eirtumfiance, 1 conjeflure, he has taken
another nothern route. 1 t'orewarm all perfou«
from giving him employment, of any kind
whatever, and matters of veffelsand others, from
carrying him out of thi» ilate. Ihe above re
ward will be given if he is taken within forty
, 1S miles of this city; and an additional sum, in
rv proportion to the diftartce he may be brought,
X or the trouble andexpence the apprehender may
„f be at, in bringing him to this place.
°l ° AUG; DAVIS,
a- N. B. His apparchvas of tbs usual negro kind,
ns but he had more cloaths than is cullomary for
lie them to pcfnel's.
:1- AD.
Richmon<3, Juste iij *797-
WIII be Landed,
Fi*om onbostd the fliip Ad.ive, Capt.Ci.Aiß,froHi
Hambuigh,
20 white Ruina clean Hemp
1 c tales Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer t
North Fifth ftrdfct, No. 34.
Tune 16. &
William Blackburn,
LOTTERT jnd BROKER'S OFFICF
No. 64 south Stcoud-flreet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, wiich
commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR
SALE. The «rice of tickets will riijb in propor
tion as the dr iv/ing advances, particularly on ac»
count ot the five fir ft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dolhirs each, on the last day of
drawing.
Ctieck Books kept for examination and register
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Walhington, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tticket* for sale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perk omen 'Bridge* lotteries, which will begin
drawing ia the course of the fiimmer.
The business of a Broker in ail kinds of Sfreck, *
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &c. tranfa&ed with the
utmost attention. *
June 2 taScf
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No. 40 Sou:h Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Caujes and, Confequen- j
ces of theprefent War with France.
By 1 the Honorable Thomas Erskine. j
May 15 $ j
"STATE trials.
Sold by W.Young, Bookseller, No. s*, South Se
cotld-ftrcer,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, tria},and acquit
al df FrancisHop-infon, Judge of th*e Coiirt of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfoni Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 To. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general afTortmentof
Books. Alio, Stationary, retail 3nd by the pack
age, well afiorted, and entitled to she drawback if
axperted. July 7—*
I^H It SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
the Envoy Extraordinary and Miuiller Pleni
potentiary of his Britannic Majesty, Generel
tcfraflifting Biiiilh creditors, and Inch particular a
gentsasthcy may fpct ialjy authorize, in prolecuting
their claims before the c®mmifTioners for carrying iw
to efFctt the fixtli article ol the Tteaty of Amity, Com
merce and Navigation between his Britannic &•ajejly and
the United Statesif America, hereby stives no: ice that
he has opened his office at his house the south eall
' corrter of Chefnut and fifth ftrcets, Philadelpi\ia,
where be is rewiy to receive aCI claims or ißftru£iiobs
j for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof, 1
lor the purpose of bringing forwa-rd the fame agree
ably so the rules and oiders which the boaid may
think proper to prefcribr.
And as "it will be for the interest of all coueerned,
that the several claims be so Itated, and fiipport
ed, as to prevent the delay which would arise trom
the necefTtty of obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials,from persons residing at a diOance,
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the
j direction chiefly of those, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the prolecution of
| their claims to his charge and management) that all
such alaims ought in particular to set forth—
J tft. The proper delcrip;ion and lunation cf the
! creditor 01 claimant, rod original debtor, refpelt
ively.
id. The date andnature of the original contract or
debt. •,
3d. When, in wWat manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant wis prevented or impeded,
by the provision, operation or defe£k of law, ihe
decilions and praftice of courts, or reflraint of exe
cution, from fr<iovering payment of the debt in
quellioi*
4»h The loss and damage incurred or fufiained,
in confcquerec of such impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen from the infol*eney, change of
situation, or dearh of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from lapse of i«ne, or othercaufes impairing
the value and feautityof the debt, which wouid n*t
have so operated if such impediments had notexifted.
And sth. The particular grounds and reasons on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treaty, thit 41 by the ordinary course of judicial pro
iuj;s, the creditor c 10not now obtain and actually
have and receive fun and adequate compenfation M for
the losses and damages so fuftaiued.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to fug-
Reft thjt the several claims ought to be accompanied
I and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
fwotn and regulirly atteflcd, both as to ihe exiflence
of the debts claimed, and such other circurnftanCes
' as may be within their own knowledge relpedfvely.
And wherever the claimants in Ujtingthe nature of
> their evidence (which must in every tnftance be the
i best of which the cale is capable) have occaGon to
refer to thetelliraony of witnelTes, it will be proper
to apprifethe general agent of the names and place#
of relideocc of ftich witncffeit and the fa£Uto be clla
- blilhed by thcit tcflimony.
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June Bth. i d
, For Sale,
' That Tuelllnown place, called Vandeorifi's
' F F R R Y,
ON Nelhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premifcs are a large two iiory flsne house occu
' pied asatvern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a Urge frame stable with a good threlhing
' floor, and l'ome out buildings—also a well of
j good water, and an excellent ice House. On
, this place is a moll elegant situation fora gentle
, man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
- iny to its jundVton wiih the Delaware, amd thence
1 across to the Jersey shore. It has the privilege
ef one half the toll received from the bridge.
For teims apiply to the Snbfcribcr,
MGRDiiCAI LEWIS.
_ Vay ia- jtawtf.
COLUMBIA
e Boarding School for young La-dies.
•> -n t KS. GKOOMBUIDGE with m«ch pleas
e l\i ureand refpert, returns htr ftneere ac
■' knowledgemciit for the liberal encouragemcsl
n she has received during four years reiidence its
Phiimkiphia ; and allures her friends ami the
public, so far from intending to decline hei
,e fch6ol, (he has mads a fupol tor arrangement foi
the more convenient accommodation of hei
II fcbolars.—Every branch of ufefxl and polite
edncaticn is particularly attended to by Mrs
" Groornbridge and ma/iars excelling in theii
n refpeflive profeftions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797- Jimfrf
11 The fituat':*n is perfei>ly healthy ; aodmadi
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lo
y of grnund adjoioing the houle.
t, . Juji Pubhjhed,
y And to be had of Messrs. DoVfon, Campbell,Rioe
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookseller. in t L .i
city,price one dollar, tvwnty-fivc cents,in boart.s
3i New Views of the Origin of tilt
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON,Vi. n.
June 28.
,No.\ 183.
Difir'tft of Pennfylvauia, to Ivit :
l. s. R E IT R2M'E?4BERJED. that on the
1> fifteenth day of June, in the twenty
firft year of the Independence of the United
Statto of America, Jamfs Woodhouse, of
the laid diiiritf, hath depoiitid in this office the
title of a book, the right whereof he claims as
author, in the words following, to wit : 1
" The Young Chemi'ft's Pocket Companion,
" being a Defcriptionof a Portable Labaratory,
" containing a Philosophical apparatus, and a
" great number-os Chemical Agents, by which
" any person may perform an endless variety of
" amuftlig and Experiments,deftgn
" ed for the use of ladies and gentlemen, and
" intended to promote the cultivation of the
" Science of Chetr.iftry ih the United States of
" .America. By James WtwbHousß, M. D.
" Profeilbr of Chemjfl'ry, in the University of
" Penafylvania, President of the Chemical So
" ciety of Philadelphia, &c.
" At present every thing that is not denomi
" nated Cbemiftry, is but a finall part of a fyfc
" tenv of natural knowledge,
t I'riefily (tn Air"
In conformity to the ?.& of the Cosgrefsof the
United States, intituled, " Ana& for the encour
agement of Learning, by fecutinj; the copies of
maps, charts, and books to the aushi>,s and pro
prietors of such copies, during tftt times there
in mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of the
Diftrnfl of Penofylvauia.
July 18. d 3t —wstf
No, 188.
Dijlritl of Rennfylv'ania, to wit :
(1. s.) R E lT REMEMBERED, that on the
-D twenty sixth day r.f July, in the tweu
! ty fecor.d year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Fknko, of the said dif
tridl,hath deposited in this office the title cf a book,
the right whereof he claims as jjfoprrctttr, in the
words following, to wit: —
" Obfervattons on certain documents contained
f " in »o. V. and VI. of " The History of the Uni
t" ed States for the year 1796," in which »ha charge
" of speculation, againlt Alexander Hamilton, late
" Secretary of the Treafory, is fully refuted—
j- " Written by himfelf."
In conformity to-he aft of the Coif rtfs of tj;e
j Ucited Sta'es, entitulcd, "At aft for the encour
• agement of learning, by fecttring the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors an<. propri
etors of futh copios, during th» vstci therein men
y tioned."
; SAMUEL GALDWELL,
Clerk of the Dijlrid of Pcnnfylvania,
g Tu'y 17- ' W4W
I" Public Notice is hereby givdn,
J '"I "'HAT at Juneterm, 1797, a petition wag
it X presented to the Court of Common Fleas,
11 held at York Town, in the State of Pennfyiva
'» iiia, at the instance ef James Short, praying
' 5 the Court to supply a loft deed made by a cer
• tain Andrew Hictenluber, to Hugh Morrifon,
James Morrifon, and John Sample, executors
' to Hans Morrifon, deceased, for fix hundred
j t a»res of Land, Ctuate in Menallea
t. townffiip, In the county of York ;—All per
n l'or.s who, have any objections to make to the ob
-- jefl of the fiid petition are desired to attend at
c > the Court Weufe, in the town of York, on the
1C sth day of September next, otherwise the loft
deed will be supplied.
JOHN EDIE, fcltrfc.
Jul} 18. e«tS5
ie 1
t- 30 Dollars Reward.
*
RAN away on Saturday 'aft, two'indented Ser
vants, Gifiord Dally, a mulatto boy.about 17
yea,rs of age, a slim light built active fellow, can
ie read and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
c- has a heavy countenance ; had on a fuftiaa coatee
in and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine shoes &c.
Allan Heltons, a black jnan, about years of
age, five feet seven or eight inches high,a thick set
ie cluaify built fallow, particularly about the breech";
ha.Fon a faftpr's biuc jack*t lined with fwanflciu,
al dark striped vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
hat, coarfc shoes, &c.; each of them had ieveral
J 1 fitirt?and several other cloathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or 15 dol
lars for each, and reasonable charges, oh delivering
0 _ them at No. 54, North Third-street.
ly The black fellow is about a year from Lewi#
0 , Town, in the County of Suffcx, state of Dela
ware, and has taken the boy with fiim.
g- J°ly 31* mtufrfytr
;J To be SOLD or RENTED,
" A LARGE 3 Story Brick Koufe, on the
-C\- South fide of Filbert street, between
of Eighth and Nintii, lately odcupied as the Sur
hc veyor General's Office.
to The Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet deep,
er the lot lic feet deep, with the privilege of a nine
feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
a " the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
totwn in. The House is not Raftered, and
may be turned either into one, or two dwelling
y6ufes. It is suitable for a large Manufaftory,
or would make a gocd Tavern. Immediate
, pcfleflion will be given.
s -Apply to No. HI, Chefnut-Street.
Ang. 11. cod4t.
a- :
Mufual Injlrument Manufactory,
u _ No. 167, Arch-Street.
j t . T T ARPEII, harpfichcrd, grand, portable grjrtd,
li iid'-board, pior table and fquarc piano
JJ- maker from London, returns his friends
and the public, for their libei al encouragement >
and hepes that by his affi«!uity and attention to ev
ery branch of his luCncfs, to merit a cortinuan/c
T,_ of their {avors. P;ano fcrtes made on th« new eft
ice and mod atproved plans, Wirh pedals,
S e fwelli, and French harp flop, which he fisttei#
himfelf will t»e fouml on trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not fupericrto any import
ed, apd twenty per cent cheaper. Any inftrn
m -nt purcha f ed ci h;m, if Ket approved Cf im
twelve monrhs, he will rxchan»e.
N. B. JVtwfical nidruments made,
$. uned, and repaiw-:- with the great ell accuracy,
alf dispatch, arid on the moll reaionabJe term.', ft.r
ic- reiidv money only.
■at Second Piano Fortes taken in exchange,
; B May at. &2:n.
ier jForty Dollars Reward.
or away from the fiibfcribif on the fee
ier Jtx. onddiyof tiiis inil. July, a Mulatto Man,
' te namc.d Will Bowzer, about forty yt\-.r3 of age,
r f- five feet levtn or eight inches high, rather
e,r chunky made ; had on when he went away, a
drabcoiored cloth coat, ilriped purvle trowfers
and jacket, .his probable* he will change Ms
tloathes, as he took a number with him. The
ll ' e t„i,l fellow foniurly btlcngcd to Mr. Charles
' ot Bhkc of this place; ai dit is expelled kehas
madu towards Jones's Keck, in the Delaware
State. —Any person appfrhending the ftid fel
low, avid securing him so that 1 cai\ get iiim aj
1°e ' gain, fiiall receive the above reward if taken
Out of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
' k ' the county, ar.d all reasonable charges if bru't
hotueu
JESSE REED,
CH'Stn Aim's Cot:nky, Maryland,
t July 3. W3t
July 3