©a?rtte D ( m ainttrlj States, -» Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1591.J
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For X) R r GO 0D S.
f Focenoon—Edward Fox, No. 56,
Monday) ,/ outh Fr °"t-ftreet, .
J \ Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 6f
C. South Pront-ftreet.
f' Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
llue r Auflion, No. 73 fout'h Front-street.
y Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
V. iSyHigh-llreet.
Wednesday \ Afteriy>on—Peter 3enfan, No. 74
( louth Thtrd-ftrcet.
Thursday \ F'''M'oon—Edward Fox.
L Afternoon—John Connelly.
Friday j l'orcnoon—Will-am Shinnon.
7 > Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—feter Belifon.
For
On moderate terms, to any port in Europe,
SWEDISH SNOW
Adolphz,
Captain Rampe.
Carries about 20eo barrels of flour. For terms '
apply to \ 1
Peter Blight. j
Who intends Landings quantity Jamaica Hum i
and Sugar, received by (hip Amity, capt. Cook,
from Jamaica.
Oct. 12. <], m
For Freight or Charter,
THE COOD BRIO
teSm S U K E Y,
. Isaac Vredenburg, Mailer ;
NOW lyjngat Clifford's'wharf, and in ■ omplcat
order to receive a cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain en board, or
John Slyrin,
No 81, Arch-street.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
2000 wt.of doublerefinedSaltpetre
600 wt. of F F Gun Powder
300 barrels of Herrings '
50 bulhels of Timothy Seed
ijocafetof Claret, firil quality
And a qaantity of Sherrf Wine.
pt- 89- ■ dtf
HAVANNA SUGARS.
FOR SALE,
1400 boxes and calks prime white Hawn
na SUGARS,
On hoard the ship Hamburgh Packet, Silas
Swain, Matter, now lying at Marcus Hook.
For terms, apply to Capt. Swain, on board, to
Capt. Samuel Smith, 49 Front, near Wal
nut street, or to S, 1
i< ■ Philip Nicklin, Js* Co. I
■*~V- Who offer the said Ship
Hamburgh Packet
JHMK& For SALE or CHARTER.
She is jjo tons register, coppered to the bends. J
fails remarkably-faft, and tan be ready to re
\ ceive a cargo in a few" dayi.
Sept 31. daw <
Antigua Rum,
* JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware -
State, and now landing from on hoard
Brig A.ilive, William Williams, Matter, I
One hundred hhds. 3d& 4th proof,
And for Sale, by
Jehu Hollingftvorth Iff Co.
Wilmington, Sept.it. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
am * , ' le br 'S GAYOSO, are
a a ' e ° r Charter, at> d
now' ready to receive a cargo
on board, at Wilmington. Apply as abrwe.
"" For HAMBURGH,
' I 'HE Copper Bottomed Ship
FAVORITE, John t
Thompson, Mister, now at fl
Jk'fvwWK' wharf, and will be rea
to take in on Monday next,
part of her cargo'heing engaged -
and ready to go on board. The ship ia so well
known, that it is needleft to describe her. She
is now in compleat order. For Freight or Pas
sage, please to jpplv at Mr Jeremiah Warder's ,
Compting House. No. la, North Third street,
•r to the Master on bord.
August jo.
For SALE,
On board the said Ship, Swedilh Iron, alTorted
Hollowand Window Glass, Demyjohns, Wrap
ping Paper for Sugar Refiners, Rugs of I & t
Quality. Please to apply as above.
wf&m4w
FOR SALE,
BRETAGNP.S In cases
(ietman Checksin do.
Cambrick
Plattillas '
Ozhabrijjs T,
Gold and silver Watches
Window Glass 10 by 8
Glass "Mimblers in cases
Linseed Oil in calks, &c. &c.
George Pennock, f
103, High-Streit. 8
J«'T 5- 3"w J*
An elegant House in Arch Street. c
TO be let and entered on immediately a large T
#nd elegant house at the Corner of Arch and 0
iNinth Street. There are two drawing rooms \\
snd one dining room—the largest is 31 feet by D
36 —and two are so conneiled by folding doors B
As to make but one. Also, five bed rooms, be- U
■fides 5 itr the garret, well finiflied for fervanu. H
There are flahles and a coach house, with evry B1
cjAenience for as* -al-v Enquire at No. 19,
Seventh Bft ■ . at No. 318, Arch
Aug. 15. sawjw. g
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufaflured as usual,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter *
Taunton'and Button Ale thi
Ked Port and other Wines, eithe bottled, tin
•r by the pipe, quarter-ca(k or gallon—suitable
#pr exportation or home consumption 00
-s S.OI Sale by
John Haworth.
No. 3 fout-b Front ftrest.J a c
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, OCTOBER x 4, 1707
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
\(lf not before dfpofed of at private sale)
Friday, the fir ft of December next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchant*' Cof
■6 CC * n Philadelphia, Forty Thoufaud N4ne
1 ' Hundred and Thirty Nine acres <;f LAND,,
now or late in the County of Wafhirtgion, and Com*.
5 mon wealth of PennfyUania, and « n the waters oi
Frefli and Wheel iwg Creeks and Ten Mile Run.
These Lands arc fertile and well timbered, artd were
et. patenteed early in 1787, except 3700 acres or therea
fo. bouts, which were patented in 1792. One fourth
of the purehafe money to be paid at the time of sale,
j* l ' ,e rc fidue a credit of one, two and three months,
will be given, on intcreft and good fetujity.
October 6. 3 iwtS _
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
( not before d'ifpofed of at private sale)
ON the Hrlt day ot December, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
House, in Philadelphia, Twenty Six Thousand Se
van Hundred and Eighty acres of LAND, in the
e State ot New-York, bciwern the northern bounds
9 j of Pennfvlvania and the .Sufquchanna, now, or late,
in the townfhipt of liamden and Warren, and coun
■ <ty of Montgomery One foirth of the purehafe
? j money is to be paid at the time of sale ; for the re
j fidue a credit of one, two, and three months will be
is givcit interest and good security.
j Oftofte 6 3awtS
"The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
M I
THIS Stage starts from the GF.ORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, rvuy TucfJay, ThurfJay, and Satur
day, at t, o'clock, in the trorning ; arrives at Do
ver the firlt day, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and oa
the morainjj of the fourth day the palTengers find
a fare and comfortable packet to couitty them to
Norfolk. '
t A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton fetry,
- every Tuefdiy, Thursday and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, e»cry I
Mon»'ay, Wcdnefday ami I'iijny up Snm.- I
Hill thifirft night, at Dover the ad night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia "In the evening of the third
, day.
Thediftance on this routt, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is Jo miles less than on any stage route
between those places.
Too much cannot be/aid in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
w.llingly engage to return the whole fare to any
pafl'enger, who, after havisg performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage lOr the fume
distance, so good a road in America.
Augult 11. dini.eotf.
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the City—
v- OF VARIOUS *SIZES, •
From 8 by 6 to 19 by 14,
By the finglc Box or Quantity, may be had at the
store of the Subscribers, corner of Arch and Front- 1
street. j
James C. is? Samuel IV. Fijher. <
Philadelphia, June 9, 1797. 1
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt. Rhodes, (rom
Oporto, j {
R«d Port Wine in pipes, hhdi. and quarter cites ,
4c cwt. Cork, for sale by \
Philips, Cramond, & Co. r
July »»• $ 1
Will be Landed, '
Frem onboard the ship AcSrve, Capt Blair,from c
HamHuigh,
10 bales white Ruflia clean Hemp
% talks Clover 3eed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth street, No. 34-
Tunc 16. . „
Young Hyson Tea. 1
40 chests of a superior quality—Alio, c
ico do. of Hyson, c
Imported in the IVoodrcp Simj, and for sale by r
the fubferiber, corner of Second and Pine f
street.
C. Haight.
J""e eotf
Cedar Shingles.
THE fuhferiber has a quantity of j feet Cedar
Shingles of a superior quality, for sale at 13
dollars par thousand.
William Hallo-well,
No. 193 North Tkirdflreet.
July 17. eoiat
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-street,
Hyson
Hyson Skin CifEAS
Young Hyson C ' p.
Imperial J
April 20*. eotf
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Amsterdam and Hamburg, jand for sale by v<
B. J. Bohlen,
A large ajfortment of fine French Cambrici, G
Platillas Ku Ilia ind Dutch sailcloth ' n
Brittannias Writing, post, and print-
Rouanes ing paper °'
Brown Holland Dutch «alf Ikint
Checks and stripes Prime madder
Ticklenburgs Shell'd Barley
Oznahurgs Looking glalfes til
White (heetings Hollow glass ware ec
Diaper % Slates . nc
Brown rolls Coffee mills ~ 'in
Umbrellas Brass kettles ce
Hair ribbons Scythes and straw knives rit
Black and whitplaces Toys alTorted in boxes th
Best Holland Gin ii) pipes _ cr
London partioular Madeira Wine
July 24- m&thtf
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto ditto Claret in cases O
Just received, and for Sale by
Rundle & Leech. Iu
A*?, it. f> aawtf
Mrs. Gil ATT AN
INFORMS her friends,and the public in general,
that her house, No. 192, Market-street, will con
tinue open during the.fieknefs.
Board and Lodging in a separate room, ten
dollars, in a double room, eight dollars.
For the convenience of those gentleman who
have not their tamilies in town, Mrs. ©rattan
will receive gentlemen to dine at half a dollar
a day. AuguJl 39. —6t
By John Fen no, N° 119 Chejnut Street.
, Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
CoffVe
fix. Madeira and Veneriffc Wine
>f-j ForSa elAy
" c • Jnme, Tard,
No. —, South Fonrth-llreet.
"f *■ d:w
C US TO M-HOUS>: }
re Philadelphia, S/pt. 22(1, 1797.
1 . Merchanu who »t this time prefer havi
inp their vc(Trl» and Merchandize entertfd and
j' cleared at Chester or Marcus Hook,—are here
• by notified. That in compliance with their de
sire, and up in a full tonvifl on that the measure
will be mutually beneficial to them and to the
united States. The colle<flot of the cuflomshas
made arrangements to eftahljfh for some time
x ranches of the cufiom-houfe at those places,
c where every accommodation in his powpy will
- be given to the merchants. diw
I ' TO BE SOLD,
'1 And immediate pojfejfwn givtn,
Convenient well finished Brick Tenement,
' j. w 'th S coolt house and other out houses, situ
ated in a pleasant part of the borfiugh of Wilming
thn, in the StJte of Delaware—The lot of ground
bat forty feet front on West-street, sua extends
. "rough the fcjuare to Paltur on which is
ereded a {table and carriage honfe^^
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. ?o.
; Lately Published,
In «ie vol. g vo (price one dollar in boards) fold
ny~WII.LIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
Chefr.ut ftrcets
1 A Colk-ftion of Papers ofi the fubjedt of
, Billious pre*kfcnt in tlie United
States for a few years past..
Compiled by i/OAH H'f'.BSTER, jun.
Containing letters from D«<9ors Seaman, Smith,
I Buel, Taylor, Ramsay, Morfon, Reynolds, Mitch
• 1 ell,on contagion, itc icc.
Sept. l< et
I
l CommiJ/ioners Office,
\ August 29, 1797.
IN pursuance ofan Ordinance of the Seleci and
Common Councils, jilTed the aid day o£May lad.
' PropoJaK in writing will be received hy the City.
CommifEonep for one month from the ift of Sep
tember next, for letting to, rent on leases for one
year to commence the firft day of January next, the
following public property of the city-;
The wharf and landing on Vine Street,
Also on SaJTafrap,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefnot and Walnut Streets, Draw Sridge, with
th« Scale and Filh Houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets. I
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry On Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as shall be occupied by any buildings erect
ed for the use of the Collector of the Tolls, or be ,
neceflary for the toll-gates.)
An P- 3 3tawim. 1
LOS T,
ON the Paffyunk Road, between the Bine BaM
and the city, a Fowling Piece, with a brass
bai rel and fl'.ver fight ; on the plate of the butt are
the IcttCs "Jamaica, Q_ 99'' —and on the barrel •
near the lock 11 London" and the Towar stamp.
Whoever will return the aid piece to Jobn BennarJ,
•I the fig n of the B'ne Ball on the Paffyunk Road,
or the office of this Gazette, shall receive a reward
of Four French Crowns, I
Sept- tl- ,
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an ail of Congrcfs of the j
United States of America, pafled at Phila- j
delphia, the 18th day of May, 1796 ; laying du
tins on Carriaget, for the conveyance of persons, -
which shall be kept by or for any person," for his
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the j
conveyance of passengers, the fc feral dutio6 and a
rates fallowing, to wit ;
For and jpon every Ceach, 15 dols.
upon every Chariot, 11 dol«
•pon every Pod Chariot, l*doI«.
upon every Post Chaise, 11 dols.
upon every Phaeton,with or without top, j
S^ols.
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having pannel work t
above, w'ith blinds, glades or curtains,
9 dols.
upon fear wheeled Carriages, having fra
med pods and topi with deel fprkigs, 6 .
dols. '
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood-
eiy ir iron springs or jacks, 3 dols.
upon Curricles with tppa, 3 dols.
vpon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or
iron springs, 3 dols.
For and upon all othcrtwo wheel carriages, 1 dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed pods and ".ops, and reding up
on wooden spars, % dols. h
The Colleftors of the Revenue for the firft Siir- n
vey of the Didriift of Pennsylvania, will attend r>
daily, until the 30th day o>f September H'xt, iqr „
the purpose of receiving the duties on Carriages, at i,
Germantown ; at the house of Daniel St. Clair.Efq.
in the County of Montgomery j and at the house t /
of James' Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks; tl
of which all persons polfeflcd of such Carriages are r
desired to take notice. v
Notice is also given, <u
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dif- 1
tilled fuirituoos liquors, that licences will be grant- u
ed to them one licence for carrying on the busi
ness of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons---and one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than 10 gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the oflic- r
crs legally authorised ta grant fuck licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
InfpeiSor of the Revenue of the firft ftir
vcy of tl*Diftri4tof Pennsylvania.
Office o< InfpeAion at \ ,
Oermantow, lath Sept. i , Im
th
lu the ihip America, James Swing, nafter, from th
Hamburgh, c j
Brown Holland* lit
" White Platiilas n
Coarfc Linens
Tapes
Looking Glades ") ■ .
Glafi Tumblers J
FOR SALE BY
George Pennock. Pc
August 14.
m Io be Let, at a moderate Rent,
THE principal part of a HOUSE, within a
(hort diiiance of the which has
Keen occupir.i lor the lad four months, confiding
of a good dining room and parlour, two feed rooms
and a drefling room, two sgsrrets,- kitchen, wood
vault and cellar, all in excellent order, £t for the
immediate reception of a fniall family. None need
apply hut thoie who are refpedablc and regular.
Enquir- at the office of this Gazette,
i'- o(siobcr (). » dtf
»- Mr. L AILS (J N7
C- WITH an intention to render service, and unde
-e ceivc thof'e Performers, who during his absence Mr.
Ie Jaymond has thought proper to engage, thinks it
is would he wrong in him not to inform thole that
ie are engaged, that it is withou his approbation, and
s> that he will not he in any way answerable for Mr.
11 Jaymond's engagements.
PHILIPPE LAILSON.
Alexandria, Sept. 15, 1797. 6t.
THE MAYf)R'S~~OFFICE ~
11 KIPT, TOR THE PRESENT, AT TIIE
CITY HALL.
Sept 8.
•* The Philadelphia, Atfwr., and 7 uckerlun
'MAIL STAGE.
PHF, proprictor/*beg leave to inform tlx: public, that
X they have eflablifbed a Stage betide en Philadelphia,
Atfion, Batflo, Hampton, Speedwell, and Martha Fur
nace , Heading River fitting mill,and the toitn nf 'fuck
erton, in New-fcrfey, to go once a week, and are piovi
rl ded n itb good horjes it a comfort able carriage, and a care
i ful driver, for the conveyance of the mail, passengers, and
goods. The Stage will Jlart every Thursday, at io
f 0 ctock, A. Jlf. from Mr. Daniel Cooper s Ferry, and
I lodge that night at Joel Bodirre*s, at Longacoming and
on on Friday, at 6 o'clock, P. M. arrive at Caleb Tt
vtins's, inkceper, in Tuckerton, dif.ant from the city 54
miles % (from the Atlantic 6, andfrom {he Eajl Grou/ing
* Plains 7 miles J cohere are good accommodationt for tra
vellers, and ivbere are commodious and fkfe p*Jage boats
provided to- convey paffetgers to Cap*. IVilliam War
_ ringtsns house, on Tucker's Jjland, adjoinining the At
lantic, "where are good accsmmoaations % and a convenient
place to bathe ; the sportsman who wijhes to regale himfelf
•with foivling and fjoing, may at this pljce be highly gra
-1 fifed, there being at almojl every season of the year fowl
tit abundance.—The Stage on its return, fiarts 1
from the aforefaid C. Evans's in Tuckerton, every Tues
day, at 6 o'clock, A. M. brenkfafls at fohn Bodine's, at
' Wading River Bridge, lodge that night at JLongacoming,
and at I o'clock, P. M. on Wednesday, arrive at the
aforefaid Cooper s Ferry. It is presumed that no route of
an equal diflance ivill be less (xpenftve, or furnifh the tra- 1
veller ivith a greater variety of amusement, as be ivill 1
not only have a p leaf ant fail to the atlantic from Tucker- '
ton, but have the curiosity of feeing on the road thither a <
number of capital furnaces and forges, and one flitting 1
mill, in complete order, and at work ; gentlemen, 100, who <
are owners, or factors, of any of the aforefaid iron works, 1
are solicited to encourage and support this fiage (by which
they can be so well accommodated) the continuance of ■which i
will much dependom their aid. The rates of passengers f
and baggage are as follows : For a passenger from the 1
*f orefaid Daniel Cooper s Ferry to Tuckerton,
14 lb. of baggage, Two Dollars ; for way passengers
per mile, Four Cents—lso lb. of baggage equal to a pas ■
fenver. P+fl+g* letter:, **x*.fpafcrs 9 X&*. will be
agreeably to law.
/V. B. The mail croffesfrom the Old Ferry. 1
THOMAS WARDLE £O. I
Tuekerton, Sept. 18. Off. 5. —laivtf <
To be Sold,
And immediate poflVflion given, »
THAT elegant feat, called BLOOMSBURY,thc
refi.ience of the late John Cox, Efq with a
bout 50 acres of Land, fitustc on the Delaware, ex- :
tending from the inouthof Affanpickcreek, to Tren
ton ferry. Tl\c mansion house it a handsome well
conftrufted brick building, 50 r.y 40 feet, contain*
ing fouT room* on each floor, with excellent cellars,
and a two story trick kitchen. Among the out J
buildings are a stone coach house and ftablcs, fuf
ficient,t« contain fix carriages and ten horses, and f
a stone cow house, upwards of 100 feet in length. 1
There is also a stone farm house with corn cribs, 0
waggon house, &c, &c. The whole of .the pferwi- c
fes proposed to be fold with this feat, from their situ- '
arion and improvements, are such as to be worthy 11
the attention of any gentleman wishing to retire £
from the city. There arc also about 25 acres ad- J
joining the above, which will be d : vided so as to
accommodate the purchasers. Also, 100 acres ad- '
joining the town lots on the eafl fide of the street
leading frofw Trenton to Lamberton, which will
be fold together or in lets, as miy bed suit the pur- 0
chafer, and 230 acres of woodland, two miles from* P
the above land, which will also be divided if re-* 11
quired. The term* of payment will be made easy, a ,
and an indisputable title given. For further parti- c
cigars enquire of Mrs. Cox, No. 144, South Fourth °.
flreet, Philadelphia, Johu Stevens, Efq Hoboc- 1
ken, Mathias Barton, Esq. of Lancaster, or the
fubferiber at Trenton. „ 0
maskeitl EWINO. f
Trenton, Sept. 25, 1797.
Sept. 30. dtf.
At the Federal Blast Furnace, 0
' II
In Carver—for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling „
Mills.
SEYMOUR's Patent Rollers. tl
THEIR fuperioritj eonjijh in being freefrom t<
holes and honey-combed places, ivhich are com- ci
monlv found in rollers cajl in sand, or clay ci
moulds. Theft patent rollers are eafl in iron
moulds, previously heated, and <will be found to aJ
be more dense, solid and durable than any rollers 31
heretofore used. Another important advantage tc
they _ h*v/ over others, is, that the necks require
no t timing, but are immedaitely ft for use, and
from their accuracy, run with less friflion, and v !
require iefs water to make them perform their 0
i'xork. ,7 hey may be bad by application to the
, Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Good
iwin, or of ,MeJfrs. Thatcher ard Haynuard [
Bojlon, Aug.* 31. Sept. 19. §6t. (i,
This Day is Publifked, t;l
BY MelT. Dobfor., Carey, Campbell, Ric and the
other Book fellers, r w
Price Orie Dollar and twenty-five cents, a ?
Elegant : y priuted on Wove paper, and Hot- al
pr'Jfcd, n
By John Thoropfon, '
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF so
The Constitutions L/
Of th« federal States with each other, aud with e ,
that of the-United States: exhibiting in Tables, g c
the prominent featnre« of each Constitution, and ha
clafTing together their most impsrtant provisions,
under the federal heads of admisiftratioo ; with u .
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of Suuth Carilina, fc
LvL. D. and member of the Conjjreft of the fu
United States. ni
Dedicated to tha People of th« UnitedStatcs. uj
N. B. A i'ei# Copi-s printed on an inferior pa
per, .at 3-4thsof a dolkr.
Fubmar; 6 mwf
i homas Herman Leuffer,
a North fifth ftrect, corner cf North alky, No. 24
as has for sale,
n* TT X ? KLl ' entrcd Kourdeaux- Wine incaf.sar.d
boxes, (i» years old
' white Graves Wine in caflcs
ie
ed Russia Sail Clcths
- Ravens Duck ,
B.ig Linen
Hessians
' 1 Diaper and Table Cloth
Empty |,.,gs
e- Commoß German Cloth
r. ' n affortraentef black coloured-Ribbont
it Fine German Laces
it Aljout twelve tons Ruflia clean Hemp
i<J Clover Seed
r. Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family use
Window Glass Aa „ „._ 4lw .
1 HIS DAY WAS PU«LI.>HKU,
_ And for file by THQ MAS DQ BSO N,* it the
Stone Hntife, No. 41, south Second street.
EVENINGS at HOME ;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET. OPENED.
Confiding of a. variety of Miscellaneous Pieces for
the inftrtiilion and atnufement of YOUNG PER
SON'S—SiiVoljjmesSrandfomcly printedaiid bound
up iu trfo voluirie*, price I wo Dollars.
\t rlie variety and excellence of thefo pieces are
r, luch, that the hook needs only to be known so be
univerfi)lly esteemed one o( the most valuable pub
- hcationsth t can be put»intu the hands of young
- persons.
Delightful task to rear the tender thought,
i I o teach the young i<La how t>> (hoot,
5 I o pour the frefli inftru&ion o'er the mind,
/ To hreathefh' enlivening- fpirit,rind to fix
/ The generous purpose in the glowing bread.'*
■* Tiiommn.
f Anguft 24. mwl4w
THIS D YIS PUBLISHED,
; By mOMASpOBSON, at the Stone HJufa,
No. 41, south Seccinti street.
Letters ancj Conversations,
r Between several Yoi/nr Lctlies,a\\ improving and in
r _ t crofting I'ubjeAs.
Translated from the Dutch of Madame £ Camion
with alterations and improvements,
Printed an fine paper. and neatly bound,
Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Rsmances, painting
tales ef extraordinary distress, or <Jf desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be lor the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comes forw«rd to so
licit notice, where in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, b?caufe
elegant and natural dignity and importance of tha Femak
tbara&er is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lence. ' u
The publiflier was fomuch pleased with the perw
fal, that he was persuaded he Ihould do a pleasing
fervicetothe community by fending it in;o circu
lation. August 14 —mw4w
70 Majlers and Pilots bringing up VeJJtU
from Foreign Ports to this City.
"TXT He reus fun dry infringements have lately been
V V made on the laws of this (late for the pre
venting pestilential or infedious diseases, either
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to pub'.ift the following ex
trad* from the laws of zad April, 1704, 7th and
Bth feiflionj-
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794.
ExtraS as an aSfor securing the city and port
of Philadelphia from the iutroduSion of pesti
lential and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And be it further enured, that every
mailer or captain of any ship or vessel comin"- from
sea (veflels aitually employed n the co»ftu,g trade
excepted) and bound to any port or place within
the jurifdi&ion of Pennfylvania.fliall cause his Ihip
or veflel to be brought to anchor,or otherWise flay
ed in the flream of the river Delaware, oprofit. to
the Health-Office on State-Island aforefaid, and
there to remain until he ffiall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of healh from the Resident Phy
sician. Andil, previsufly to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any raafler or captain (hall
fuffer his (hip or vessel to approach nearer than the
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
(hall land, cause or fuffer to be landed, or brought
on (bore, at any place or port within this Com
mftnwealth, or at ar.y other port or place, with the
intent ol being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any person or persons, cr any goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving such bill of health
o.- certificate, he lhall neghef or refufe to deliver
the sam» to the Health-Officer, such matter or cap
tain (hall forfeit asitl p:;y, for each 2nd every such
offence, thefurilof five hunbred dollars,
And the captain or matter of every Ihip or ves
sel (hall fend a fafe and commodious boat to bring
the physician on board, nnd (hall in like manner
conv. y him back to the Health-Office, after he has
concluded his official examination : And while he
is making such examination, or in rase any fubfe
queht examination by the Health Officer or Con
futing Physician, agreeably to the diredions of
thi' a<S, the maflcr or captainThall expole or caula
to beexpofcd to thelearch of the Resident Phyfi
cian,or of the Health Officer and Consulting Physi
cian (as the safe may be) each and every part of the
(hip or vessel, and (hall present to his view each
and every person or persons on board thereof, and
and (hall also true and fatisfadory answers make
to.all such questions as the Resident Physician, &c.
at the time of examination (hall aflc relative to the
health of any port or place fr»m which the (hip or
vessel failed, or has lince touched at—the a umber
of persons on board when the (hip or vessel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that have
since been landed or taken 011 board, and when
and whererefpeflively—what p'erfoas on board
f they have besn during the voyage, or lhall, at «
the time of examination, be infe&ed with any pet
tilential or contagious difcife—and what is the pr»-
sent state and condition of the p«rfons on board
with refpecS to their health or diseases. And if
any matter cr captain /hall refufe to expose as aforc
aid, to the search of any of the officers aforefaid,
n if he lhall conceal ar.y jt r k per fan,or in any other man
ner deceive tie proper officer, aforefaid in tis aupwert,
uch captain or matter,for every such offence, (hall
forfeit and pay the sum ef rive hundred dol
lars.
Sect. 8. And if r.ay person or persons whatfo
e»er (the Resident Physician, &c. excepted) (hall
go on board ahy vessel, before the maflcr thereof
has received a certificate of health in the manner
directed, every person so offending, lhall pay the
um of ONE IIWNDREO DOLLARS
IT being absolutely necessary that the foregoing
fe&ions fbould be punctually complied with, the
fubferiber, in compliance with his duty, roust ex
ad a rigoroas observance of the fame, or eife be
under »h« necessity of putting the laws in force.
Wm. ALLBN, Health Officer of' tlir-
Ptrt PhiUdelphia.
J*!? 14- dj\T
[Vclvmu XII.F&SBHBWEX'X&ZKi&ZZZ vgflK JWrU Iff *<
Philadelphia, <sci. 13.
VHE fubtcribers inform, their frit'ed and ctifto
m'T* in rtfVftjarkl country, tha» their florea arc jiow
uj en in the city, giuVother* are daily opening, and
*• 2* front tbe present ot the prevailing (
ijuori'rr 1 avc reason to hope, their ti'iends may
'"•"•1 \ ; come to the city with perfeel fif'ty. By ""
icvc al htf arrival, number-have received freih I
* 'tnprlics of GOOD^.
Kdbrrt Smith iff Co. P IV. Gallamlst & Co.
yhvi Dnin t Co. Sitgreaves iS? French,
thrift Smith* George JDobfort*
iViltbcrger and Smith, Thomas Rycrfcti,
jlits j&t'jlundand Co. T. R. liardinberg.
yd cob Spcrry and Co. "John Smith and Co
(J-i'j.n & Jona- Jones, Thomas Orr,
Keppele o Zantzinger > William Barker ii Co.
A daw 7-antz:nger, Thomas Armat &f S<m.
John Frits, J. Miller, jun. und Co. £
T *■ _ o
A Meeting of the Seleft and Com- a
mon Councils <1
WILL be held, at 10 o'clock in the forenoon f]
on '? nefday nextj at. the State-houfc. in the a
tlty of Philadelphia, for. the of clewing a «
M \YOR< ad*. 1 , as the elc&ion dan be held on no
other day, the attendance of ail. the Members is par- F
Hiularly refuelled. I
Ij/ order, 1 a
WILUAMH. TOD, Clerk of the n
Peledl Cruncil.
EDWARD J. CO ALE, Clerk of
. the Common Council. *
er 13. ,r
Ihe printers of the city are requeued t© a
pub i'b the foregoing in their fevcral gazette*. a
TfcNERIFFE WIMK.. i
LANDING -it Walnut-street whsrf, TEN?.- c
f> iff H WINE, of excellent quality, in pipes arid x
half pipe", for sale hy JAMES YARD.
oa. TO. J Co*t >
The Health-Office r
JS removed to the Citv-Hall, and i* kept open
day, where persons having b;:fin f* may .
apply. W-M. ALLEN, Health-Officer. J
? ept. 4. s» dff t
"Norl c l. 1
THE Ofiket of the Department of War are for
tbe pr. sent removed near to the Falls of the Scuyl- 1
kill, orwrhe Ridge Road. t
;Vp*ember 4. <ftf |
From'Marfeilles,
THE CAKGO
Of the ?wcd!th barque Guflavus Adolphus,from
Marfc lles, co.ifilting of the following articles, j
is tiifchnrgin.r at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for '
sale. by th e si^ 1 >icr ibers 1
RUANDY, veil flavored, of a, 3 & 4th props 1
Claret, in hoe:[head#
Ditto, in cases
Frontigr.isc Wine, in cases of 30 bottles
Oiive 0i1,.0f a superior quality, in baskets of 6
and 1; bottle!
Capers
(>ive» t
Almonds
Dry Verdigresfe
Writing Paper
tJmt re'laj (Silk) of 18, 30 and 31 inches
Taffeties
Long and ftiort white Kid Gloves for Women
Srlk Jh'oektrgt
Har.dkerch'cfs, in imitation of Madtaft
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Ostrich Feathtrs
Ribbons
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
Manna in forts
Cream Tartar.
BENTAMIN MORGAN & •
ROBERT ANDREWS.
September 17. eotf
At a Meeting of the Board of
Property, June 6, I7Q?»
Pref»nt John Hall, Sea'ry
Francis Johnfton, R. G. > of lar.doflice
Ran.. Brodhead, S. G.)
Nicholas Bettlnger, }
Versus >
Samuel Cunningham.)
In this cafe the proof of fervire of notice be
ing inefficient, It isordered that notice be giv
cn in one of the Philadelphia and York newspa
per» wetkly, for at least eight weeks to the
heirs or assignees of Samuel Ctinningham de
ceased, to atttend the board on thefirft Monday
in November next, to shew cause why a patent
ftould not ifliie to Nicholas Bettinger for the
land in queflion.
(A true Copy.)
JOHN HALL,
Secretary of the Land Office.
Aug. it. • iawßw.
Boston Glass Manufa&ofy.
THE citizens of the United States are hereby
informed v that the manufa&ure of Window
G'ait is now commenced at the Glass House in Bos
ton. v
It ii seedless to &y any thing of the excellent
quality c# the Boston Glass, as it is so well knowr |
throughout the United States to be in every refpetf
greatly superior to anv ever imported from Europe.
If will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
iray be conftantlyihad by applying to Charles F.
Kupfer, at the Glaft House.
Order® from the distant States to be aidrelTed to
Mr, Samuvl Go»e, Court-street, Boston.
Boston, Sept 30,1797 O4 —aaw^w'
AifJJrs. Timothy "an J Mason, Charlejion ; Mejfrs.
JJodoe and Boylan y Halifax, N. C■ Mejfrs. Willett
and & Connor, Norfolk ; Air. Ellis Price, Alexandria ;
JMrJfrs. Yundt and Br won, Baltimore ; Mr. Hopkins,
A'civ-Tori ; and Mejfrs. Had/on 15* Goodwin,.Hart
ford ; Air. Seymour t Savannah ; are requeued to injert
tbe above once a 'week 6 -weeks. Tbe accounts to be for
warded to tie Editor,
Peale's Museum.
THIS valuable repository of the works of Na
ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the uncferftanding, i« opened daily, as
usual. It stands in an airy and healthy situation,
and free from the epidrtnic that at present affliils
the city ; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the greatest fsfety.
As an Amusement, the study of Nature is the
mod rational and pleating : as a Science, the mod
fuhlime and inflruAive. It elevates the mind and
expands the heart. They
'' Wh»m Nature* 1 tuirfo tan tbarm, ivitbtGoJ bimfclf
" Hold converse
Many interring additions have lately befn
made to this Museum : ai:d the feathered tribe,
containing a variety of the most rare and beautiful
fubjefls, is now very adrantageoufly arranged
Waxen Figure*, q[ Men large a= life (fomeoftlum
casts from nature) are here dressed in their proper
habits, and placed ; .n attitudes characterise of their
refpeilive nations. Here may be seep the North-
Ameticau Savage, a<'d the Savage of South-Ameri
ca ,- d laboring. Chinese, and the Chinese Gentle
man the sooty African, and the Kamtfchadalc—
•with some Narires of the South Sea ffiands. The
immense variety and interefling diversity which
this Museum offers to the view, may befeenbut
eannot be described with full efT.sl. ,
fSf Price only I-4th of a dollar.
?eyt. . law
%Ijt(gasette. .. |
PHILADELPHIA. f a
SATURDAY EVENING, Octobfr 14. Pr
1 ■■nil. er
LETTER from Mr. PICKERING, th
Ssrretiry of State, to th\ Chevalier DE ut
TRUJO, Envoy Extraordinary'and Mi- tli
r.'tfler Plenipotentiary of his Catholic Ma- ti<
jefly to the United States of Amfrica. th
f Continued from the Pittjburg Gazette.) tli
DEPARTMENT OF STATE.
Philadelphia, August Bth, 1797. hi
In the 9th paragraph of your letter, you m
fay that " after having dlfcufled the history rj
of these tranfa£h'ons, with all the force and tl
accuracy which result from these obfervati- g
ons, I afTure, with a very ill-grounded con- B
fidcnce, that upon a view of the whole it ai
appears, that his majesty's governors on the ft
Mifliffippi have on various pretences, post- tl
poned the running of the boundary line and o
the evacuation of the posts." I mufl here n
also complain of misrepresentation. I did tl
not in tr.y report draw my conclusions from d
the history of these tranfaftions—that is, of si
the tranfaftions which you have previously t
.mentioned in your letter, and which I have Ii
already noticed in this answer : but " Upon y
a view of the whole correspondence then and d
before submitted to the president." This a
correspondence I will now examine, to fee p
whether the causes assigned by the Spanish f
governors, for postponing the running of the v
boundary line and evacuating the posts, me- c
rit the name of reasons, or of pretences. g
Governor Gayofo being informed of Mr. c
J Ellicott's descending the MilTiflippi, wrote e
to him on the 37th of February, desiring t
him to leGve his escort at Bavon Pierre, 60 f
miles above the Natchez. Yet the treaty £
prescribed a military escort on each fide to
tfttend the commissioners in running the f
boundary line; and the Natchez as the c
place of firft meeting. The chief rea- 5
fori offered for this request was, that if the c
troops of the two nations were brought to- j
gether, " misunderstandings," might arise r
between them. Yet the treaty required their f
coming together to attend the commiflion- 1
ers when they were jointly running the boun- 1
dary line. And the only reason the governor
afiigned for not evacuating the posts, was !
" The want of veflels," but which he ex- j
pefted would soon arrive. I
On the 25th of February, governor Gay- i
ofo and Mr. Ellicott fixed on the 19th of ■
March to proceed down the river to Clarkef
ville, near which it was supposed the bounda- 1
ry line would commence. 1
On the 9th of March governor Gayofo
informed Mr. Ellicott that the baron de 1
Carondelet could not attend the running of
the line in person, and tkat the whole busi
ness had devolved on him, the governor ; but
he feared he (hould not be ready on the 19th.
And then he endeavoured to draw Mr. El
licott from his proper station at the Natchez,
by proposing a visit to the U»n at N«w
Orleans.
March 12th, the governor again endea
vored to draw Mr. Ellicott from the Nat
chez, and recommended Loftus' Cliffs near
Claikefville as the point of re-unitiHg : and
by way of inducement, said that the Geo
meter and other officers to be employed on
the boundary line would stop at Clarkef
ville.
On the 15th of March, the principal part
of the artillery was taken out of the fort, and
every appearance made of a speedy evacua
tion : but on the 2ad they were carried
back to the fort and immediately remount
ed. A similar movement took plade at the
latter end of April, after the arrival of lieu
tenant Pope and his troops at the Natchez.
. " The evacuation (fays he) appeared to be
going On with great life ; when all at once
the military (lores were ordered back, their
troops busily engaged all night taking back
and remounting the cannon." Here he very
naturally expresses his surprise—" This kind
of conduft (fays he) appears strange."
March 23d, the governor'mentions that
orders had been by the general iu chief
r of the province, to demolish th? post at the
- Walnut Hills—because their treaty with the
Indians required it : but as he (Gayofo)
, had finee been informed of their unsettled
I difpoCtious, he had sent counter-orders, to
prevent the fortifications being injured ; fug-
J gefting at the fame time that the moving of
the stores, &c. was suspended only until the
j arrival of the American troops to take pof
fedion of the post.
/ In this letter the governor informs Mr.
Ellicott that lieutenant colonel Guillemard
" was far on his way up ; and, on his arrival,
the running of the boundary line (hould bc
i.' gin. The governor adds this assurance
'/ " that there is nothing that can prevent the
religious compliance with the treaty."
On the 28th and 29th of March, gover
nor Gayofo issued two proclamations, both
bearing date the 29th, takidg new ground
for retaining the posts, viz. Until the right
1- of the inhabitants to the real property is as-
II certained. The governor is pleased t® fay
18 that a negociation was on be
tween the king of Spain and the United
h States, to secure to the inhabitants of the
Natchez the righttotheir real property : that
ie thatrightcould not.befecured butbyan addi-
U tional article to the late treaty ; and that he
(hould keep poffeflion of the country until
tj that article (hould be officially communicat
ed to him ; and until they were sure that
n the Indians would be pacific. This last
reafon particularly warrants my affertion—
j that the governors meant for an indefinite
n period to avoid the evacuation of the posts ;
r for while a tribe of Indians existed in that
' r th# governors could not be sure
that they would be pacific. And as to their
!; real property, feeing the great body of the
- inhabitants appear not to desire the patron
's age of the Spaaifh government to secure
11 it : As the government of the United States
" miift be at least as anxious as that of Spain
to p rot eft the inhabitants in their rights,
when become citizens of the United States:
I believe there can be no difficulty in dccid- gai
ing whether this is a reason or a pretence, his
Besides, the ntgociation mentioned by the tha
governor about the real property of the in- t—;
habitants, has never exifled ; nor even been of i
proposed or hinted) either to or by the gov- 1
ernment 'of the United States, I hope, lini
therefore, it will not be deemed harsh, or mi'
unbecoming in a letter of this kind, to fay, the
that this motive for suspending the evacua- fer
tion of the pods—that a negociation was th<
then on foot to secure the real property of 110
the inhabitants—does not merit the title St
•even of a pretence.
So soon as the governor discovered that wi
his proclamations, infrfcad of quieting the th
minds of the inhabitants, produced a contra- U
ry effeft, he sent two gentlemen of the set- vie
dement to inform Mr. that he, the wl
governor, had received direftions front the it
Baron de Carondelet to have the artillery th
and military dores expeditioufly removed in
from the forts, which were to be given up to be
the troops of-the United States immediately th
on their ai rival. As this information did be
not remove suspicions, Mr. Ellicott wrote Y
the governor on th 6 3id of March, dating di
divers circumdances which still kept those
suspicions alive. The governor answered on fu
the fame day in dire& contradi&ion to the to
information given by the gentlefneii, his a- th
gents, to Mr. Ellicott, and confirming the fa
declarations made in his proclamations. He ei
added also a new motive for retaining the m
posts, viz. That the treaty left it doubt- b<
ful whether, when the pods should be e- bi
vacuated, the works were to be left standing, P'
or to be demolished ; concerning which the tt
governor general found himfelf obliged to ai
consult lus Catholic Majedy ; and had giv- o'
en the governor positive orders to suspend si
the evacuations of the pods until the matter a
should be amicably fettled between the two f
governments. tl
On the id of May, another motive is as- e<
signed for retaining the pojls—The envoy I
of his Catholic Majedy in the United ti
States, had informed the governor general p
of an attack proposed againd the Spanish "
part of Illinois (the upper part of Louifia- p
11a) by the British from Canada, and, there- i'
fore, the posts at the Walnut Hills and the t
Natchez must be kept sos the defence of i
lower Louifiaua. f
This last motive is also offered as a rea- t
fonwhy the runningof the bouudary line is ' *
postponed ; as all their attention was drawn j r
towards the defence of the province, againd (
an invasion which, as I have already diown, r
was never contemplated t
To all these faAs, I have to add the de- c
■ claration of General Wilkinfon, in his letter , J
of June 2d, to the Secretary of War—" Ij i
1 have (fays he) information through a confi- ! 1
dential channel, that it was determined as ; ]
early as September lad, not to give up the ;
■ pods on the Mississippi." If this informa- j 1
tion be correA, no other proof is necessary to
shew that all the reasons from time to time |
fuggeded for not evacuating the posts were 1
, mere pretences. 1
1 K»v c brought into one view the <
mod material fafts relating to the quedion
between us, which are scattered through
- out the reports made by me to the President
of the United States on the 10th of June
1 and 3d July, and by the Secretary of War
- on the 30th of June, and the documents
1 accompanying them, as Jthey haTe been pub
- lifhed. And from this brief recital it evi
dently appears, as I have said in my report,
t " That the Governors of his Catholic Ma
-1 jedy, on the Miffifippi, have, on various
- pretences, podponed the running of the
1 boundary li»c, and the withdrawing of his
- troop* from the posts they occupied within
e the territory of the United States : And
- that after repeated overtures, promises, and
. appearances of commencing the execution
e of the treaty between the two nations, in
e both these rtfpe&s, their conduA demoo
r ftrates, that for an indefinite period they
k meant to avoid doing either."
y You controvert this conclusion only on
d one ground- You fay that the treaty stipu
lated merely that the Spanish garrifous should
t be withdrawn, not that fortifications which
:f might one day be prejudicial to the King's
e fubjefls, fliould be delivered up : and hence
e you infer that the necsffity urged by the two
) governors of delaying to withdraw th« gar
d nfons.until this quedion is decided between
0 the two Governors, is not a pretence, but a
•- fubdantial reason. Here I mud observe
if that the governors had already demolished
e the pod at the Chickafaw Bluff : And it
f- appears in the foregoing recital that they
were going to demolish the pod at the Wal
r. nut Hills: and the reason afligned is that
■d the treaties with the Indians required the
1, demolition: and governor Gayofo assigns
C- bnt one motive for fiifpending that operati
:e on—that he had been informed of the un
ie fetttled disposition of the Indians ; yet af
terwards this reason (that their treaties with
r- the Indians required the demolition of the
h pods) is forgotten, asd their deftru&ion,
d or their delivery with all the fortifications
bt and other works standing, is by the gover
if. nors made to depend entirely on the issue of
iy a negociation between the governments of
e- Spain and the United States ! Can any far
?d ther proof be wanting to juftify me in cal
he ling this aprttence ? But you seem to rely
at on this your conftrudlion of the treaty rela
li- tive to the posts : You have urged it in your
he letter to me- ps the 24th of June ; and there
til fore I will consider it.
it- The 2d article of the Treaty having def
at cribed the boundaries between the territo
-Ift ries of the United States and Spain, thus
proceeds —" And it is agreed that if there
te should be any troops, garrison* or fettle
-1 ; ments of either party, in the territoiy of
at the other, according to the above mention
re ed boundaries, they shall be withdrawn from
sir the said territories within the term of fix
he months after the ratification of this treaty,
n- or sooner if it be poffihle : and that they
re shall be permitted to take wittythem all the
;es goods and effefts which they possess." But
lin to juftify your retention of the posts, you
ts, fay that the demarcation of the boundary
:s: line should precede the withdrawing of the
• ,
gajyifons : Yet you suppose xlpraba'J.c and ' we
his Catholic Majesty's governors 'well knciv, j muc
that the Chickafaw Bluff—the Walnut hills \Ew
-r— and the Natchez are within the territory be <
of the United State*. woi:
Governor G«yofo fpeaka ofthe boundary of ii
line as being near Clarkefville, a place many fuel
miles below the Natchez ; and he also knew 1
the result of Mr. Ellicott's astronomical ob- caul
fervations on the spot, which ascertained whi
the Natchez to be about thirty nine miles, tior
north of the south boundary of the United the
States. mat
There being then not a shadow of doubt tior
with refpeft to the position of these ports— 1
that they are all within the territory of the adv
United States, there was no necessity pre- kno
vioufly to run and mark the boundary line : the
which besides, if set about in good earnest, bles
it would take at least a year to accomplish, out
through a wilderness of many hundred miles you
in extent; and therefore it never could have I
been contemplated as necessary to precede our
the evaAiation of the polls, which was to are
be effected in fx months, or sooner if poffille. trie
Yet fifteen months have elapsed, and you
still keep possession. To
But you fugged that it is at least doubt
ful whether by the treaty it was intended
to leave the fortification* (landing, when
the garrisons should be withdrawn: .You whi
fay " It is not to be presumed that it could imj
ever have been the intention of his catholic the
majesty to deliver up fortifications, which, ha*
besides that they have eoft him confidera- flat
Ble sums of money, may, by the. effeft of Ye
political vicissitudes, be one day prejudicial mil
to his fubje&s." I feel much reluftance to Th
attempt the refutation of a conftruftion so tifc
obviously erroneous. It is probably the thi
fir it time that to " withdraw" or retire from no'
a place has been imagined to intend its de-> of
fruition. If at the formation of the treaty or
the demolition of the pods had been intend- pii
ed, it would assuredly have been expressed. sea
But doubtlef* the idea never occurred, un- vel
til it was found convenient to make it a tw
pretence for holding the pods. The phrases
" to withdraw a garrifdn," to evacuate a by
fofl or country, have as determinate a mean- i uni
ing as any in the English language ; and tio
their meaning is ascertained .by frequent use ; lar
: in treaties ; and to defiroy a country or a A
fortified plac, from which it was dipulated ' wt
to " withdraw" an army or a garrison, in
i ' would be such an a& of barbavifm as ought ini
i ; never to take place among civilized natioris. | to
t One of the lated treaties made by the U- ch
, 1 nitod States (that with Great Britain) has te
the fame phrase—" His majedy will 'with- ha
- dra-w all his troops and garrisons from all w!
r posts and places within the boundary lines gi
[ j assigned by the treaty of peace to the U- pt
- ! nited States. This evacuation (hall take a
s place on or before the fird day of June, of
e i 1796." And these expressions are used in ec
- the fame treaty as equivalent to " the deli I
0 ! very of the said pods." The 'British treaty tl
e was in this manner accordingly carried into w
e effefl—the British troops were -withdrawn, re
and the works left flaniing. The British m
e officers were even careful not to expose the p]
1 works to accidental deftruftion : for as the p ;
i- American troops did not reach the pods by
t the fird of June, small British guards were tr
e left to preserve the works from injury until a i
r the American troops arrived,
s By the treaty concluded at Versailles the w
1- 3d of September, 1783, between Great J
i- Britain and Spain, it was agreed, " That t<
t, the king of Great Britain should cause Ead si
i- Florida to bt evacuated three months after r ,
is the ratification of that treaty, or sooner, uj
ie if it could be done." The evacuation took j~ {
1 place, but no demolition of fortification 1. j" ;
n In the preliminary articles of peace be- f (
id tween England, France and Spain, signed a
d the 3d of November, 1762, it was flipu- tl
n lated " That as soon as poflible after the a
in ratification of these preliminaries, France ,
I- should evacuate Cleves, Wefel, and Guel- p
y ders, and generally all the countries belong- , p
ing to the king of Prussia:" Were those a
n plates demolished, or the country laid <waflc, \J :
II- when the troops withdrew ? Or were there 1f ;
Id any subsequent negotiations to remove any
:h doubts'on the fubjeifl ? r
's But I have dwelt too long on a point (
re that really required no elucidation,
ro (To be continued.) F
r- A POLITICAL~REFLECTION. \
• u Every country has certain peculiar advan- ®'
a tages, which, like remarkable features, dif- j,
ve tinguifh it from others. In the earlier dates
-d of foeiety, these were entirely natural or t
't local, as the fitnefs of the foil fbr particu- v
c y lar predu&ions, or the convenience of situ- £
'1- ation for certain pursuits : afterwards fa3i- t
at tious advantages were added, the result of £
accident or application ; commerce, manu- t
n * faftures, modes of government, and various c
ti- other effe&s of human exertion or providen- (
tial disposal, contributed to diverfify nati- (
onal character nearly in the fame proportion (
th with the complexions and manners of the
he human race.
in i From an early acquired habit of contem- '
•n* plating with pleasure those objefts in which j
er_ his own country is superior to others, the ,
native imbibes the amor patria, the spirit i
°f of patr'wtifm, which attaches him so drong- 1
ar ~ ly to his native foil that fomethir.g extraor
:al" dinary mud occur to induce him to leave
-'y it without relu&ance, and something dill
'' a * more extraordinary if he can entirely with
)Ur draw his affeftions from it.
re- «' Nor cast one longing, lingering look behind."
It is this which induces a man to hazard
>ef- his all for that country which early pleasures
to- and long habit have endeared to himt
ius To difqover these advantages, and pro
ere perly to edimate and apply them, is the
;le- nohleft pursuit of the politician : and with
of us it is unnecessary to dispute whether such
on- and such facts or opinions are British or
om French, Chinese or Tartarean ? but whether
fix they may be made ufeful to America ?
ty, The charafteriftie advantages of America
ley are, its wide didance from Europe, its in
the dependence so remarkably acquired, and
iut ' its early political experience. Divided by
rou • the width of the Atlantic from the red of
ary ' the civilized world, we little to fear
the j fro» their open force or secret intrigues, if
we take clre not to betray cur/thai- Sa
much trouble Imd expense would attend'an
European invaflon, so little hope would there
be of success by force, and so much time
would be neeeflary for carrying on a system
of intrigue, that America can be ruined by
such means but with her owa consent.
The history of oifr revolution, and the
causes which produced it, and the glory
which crowned it, are a source of exulta
tion to the American, and have received '
the admiration of the old world, who esti
mated our character by our fuccefsful exer
tions at that important period.
As a nation, we have the unparalleled
advantage of beginning with a fund of
knowledge, which others have purchased at
the expense of centuries of blood and trou
bles. We have the experieace of age with
out its infirmities—we have the freffinefs of
youth without its inexperience.
In these refpe&s we may justly prefer
our country to the reft of the world : these
are the circumftanees which juftify the pa
triotism of America.
To lie Editor of the Virginia Argui.
Richmond, O&ober 4, 1797.
Sir,
The ufeful and iiiterefting matter with
which your paper is always filled, makes it
improper, perhaps, to expeft or alk of you,
the re-publication of any essays which may
have appeared in other papers of' you* own
ftatej much less those of your own city
Yet, the anxiety which 1 1 have heard a
number of your fubferibers, who do not talpe
The Virginia Gazette and General Adver
tiser express, to fee the papers published in
that Gazette under the signature which I
now write, induces me to acquit mvfelf
of the charge of partiality for the fubferibers
or friends to any particulai newspaper, by
publilhing in yours, some of the leading
features of the NINE numbers of the De
velopment of the causes of the dijlurbances be
tween the .American ajd French Republics.
This I am impelled the riuore ftrohgly to,
by another consideration in addition to. the
I one already stated. Besides the equal atten
tion I with to ftiew to your fubferibers at
; large, with those of every other paper in
■ America, there is one person in particular,
whose name has been frequently mentioned
; in those papers, and who, I am credibly
; informed, declared (tho' with a bhi/l, lam
told, of modefl innocence, I presume, on his
cheek) to a citizen of his own county, af
ter the publication of the 7th No. that " he
had never seen one of those publications
who, if there was no other entitled to he
gratified, certainly of himfelf is. That the
■ person alluded to, v niay no longer be without
' a fight of what I have already {kid and tho't
p of him (as he is the last of all men I would
' eoncfal those fentinrents and opinions from)
I Ihall therefore now draw up a summary of
' the prlncipil things I have of him',
> \yidr the addition of a fey more which yet
> remain to be touched upon,, and which in
1 my opinion, it behoves that person to ex
; plain: And this I fliall do. for the moil
part, by the way of as that
r appears to be the favorite way of arriving at
" truth, with some of that person's advocates
1 and friends.
By the ingenious invention of the sfvrcrct
- which may justly be styled the enemies of
t faabinfm put to the rack, we are taught
1 to propound a few ufeful querict on the other
t fide; a few candid answers to which will v'e
r ry much aid the qucrift and Editor of that
> ufeful paper in' arriving at truth on the fub
c ject of his enquires. By as ready and as
fatisfa&ory answers being made, as were as»
- forded on that occasion, it»mav be seen, who,
' 'and what paaty, are best prepared to pass
- the fiercy ordeal of such a torturous examina
-0 ; atian as has been there set on foot.
e | In the firft place then, Mr. Pleafants, to
I- pursue and be consistent with my original
i* : plan, who, give ml leave to a(k, was our
k | ambafTador in France, when their revolution
s i I broke out, and our general government wit
e sacred ?
y ad Q. Did not that amhaiTador write to Ame
rica,while our government was under consideration
for adoption or rejeflion, recommending cer
tain things to be done which were not done, or
paid .any very.great attrition to ?
3d Had that negleit and theprrfumptien of
the people of America to form a government for
themselves, in bit aifcnce, and in contempt of his
~ advice, any, and what effifl, on hisfecret opin
ions and dispositions towards that government ?
:s 4th How did it happen that an attachment
>r to the cause of France (of which that charaiter
j_ was well knowu to be a warm admirer) became
connected with, and underf ood to be iufeparable
from, an ennjity to our government ; and that
the person who had been the chief cause of the a
-3t doption of the government, and was well known
j- to be under the influence of tue amhaffador, be
jS come immediately on his, return to America, so
ftrangcly changed, as to become among the fore
moft in those filter principles of a friendship to the
caufc of France and enmity to the American gov
)n ernment ?
le Jth Who Was it that recommended the wri
tings of Mr. Paine hers as the " llandard ol Com-
„ _ tr.on Senje and whethsr was the fame person then
, acquainted with Mr. Paine's whole system, or if
■ 1 he was not. when he beaamc acquainted with it,
whether did he wish the influence of that recor*.
•it to extend to the. whole of his wife wri
g- tings)
j._ 6th Q_ Who were the two influential chara.Ceri
who introduced M» Frenc-au into the depirtnieul
of state and set him up as a printer ; who introdu
ced hi; fulifcription papers into Albemarle,
h- &c. recommended him as the rcpuiliun primes
and a&cd as agentt even between him and his sub.
I." fcrib«rs in that quarter ; and why all this iAii
rd tr X> 'rouble and pains, and what the obje&flke'
complexion of that pap t ?
'~th CK Why* were the rejblnticns of Albemarle
on the lubject «f the piodamation of neutrality
o- (lormed and warmly advocated by young ge.itie
he men immediately from uniler the privatt rool ant
jj] influence of the Icerctaty of state) so material!]
1 different fron the tonimunicaticms from thepuill,
*■ ' office of-ftatc upon the laaie fubjcia ?
or Bth CV Why were the sentiments of those 0
>er thefarae connexions and immediately under the sam
influence, always and uniformly warm, bitter an<
; ca ioud a£un(l principles, men.and itieafures, whicl
the perfou holdmg that' inflaene; over them preteHd
ed to view in a very xUffcretit'light ?
Why was the&me incoafilteqcy of fen
by undent which tkAs prevailed between this mai
of of influence andlii* av'mirers, even maintained ii
the fame chara&er at oßce, by holding up to dH
j£ fcrent people of diffcrwit sentiments, iithe famehreath, the. fame chiradj.ers in different , l L
light* > 1 /,
10th O- Whether or not, was the letter said .to ;
have been written to> Mazzei, she produ jtiin of j
the perfun to whom it wit imputed ; and if it was j
n«t, why was the influence of its reputed author's 5
name not tak' n fmm it as foou an it was known to (
lie publiihed in France with a view of injuring this „
eountry ?
nth Q_ Was the department of state, during
thefecrctary-fhip <>! Vlr. Jefferfon, made the chan
nel through which loiters were sent to France, p
which the writc-s of such letters fHppofed to be g
improper to he Irufied through the department, as-
ter that xievtted friend to Franc- had left, it, and
■tvej-e therefore committed to the immediate care
of thc.miniftcr of that co-.v.itry, as tie more ftcurt J
channtl, as * has been acknowledged by a mtin sup- t
posed tobe in fuchfecret9 ?
Ilith Who Was the person Du Pont de-Ne
raoursin the council of 50' declared woald be«/*-
votd) to France if he was appointed President of , T
America ; and bow did the servant of the French
people come by that inform ition which was with
held from the American people ?
13th Q, Why was Mr. \detfoextremelyanxious a
for, and aiflive in the ele&ion of Mr. Jefferfon—
and was not he the person to be devbted to France if J:
elcfled president ? , ] '
14th Q_ Why did Mr. Adet communicate with a
Mr. Blount on that fnbje<st, and why was thar ami- j
«i/f senator of America so ftrentious (in the ele&i- ;
on of President) for Mr Jeff rfon ? £
isth O Why did Mr. Jefferfon quit his im
porta.-\{ po'l ih the Senate, when Mr. Blount who p
jiad been among th? mn.t warm, decidsd ,and im- 1
pot;taot advocates for hip eleflion in America, itiat i
to It fVJ(rracsd ? r
l6»h Q_ And finally and lastly—was not Mr. j
Adet (with whom Mr. Blount was intimate, and
coinfided and operated so perfeiUy in' the el; fl'on 1
of a pricfi'fe-t devoted ta France) certainly and abfo- t
lutely at the bottom of the Canada plot; to give a f
colourable pretext to which, and raif- a ntaufiHc ~
pretence for rftnining o'ir pofls in the ftuth wes
tern parts of America, to Wing about a paitition lj
of fhe-Hnited State*, in which those schemes of
yren h influence and American d.-jotion .would be r
mrtr easily reciprocated, than by the troublesome t
means "of the little unneajfary formality 0/ conlulting f
the will of the American people, tha pretence of {
an invasion from Canada on Upper I.ouifiana wa<
raised and Mr. Blount'sprctended plot with the Bri- '
tifh fabrirated ? 1
Thin hft conclusion (which I tiuft will clofethe t
fe.ne of French influrnCL- and American iWiw to , j
that country among »«) I 'liink lam now warran- j
ted -o draw, little hint of the c"mplexi'.u
of the plan which accidentally and unguardedly fell j ]
from Mr. Blount himfelf, before it was known ho*-j
far and which way the operation of the difcuvery | ,
of the content* of his lrtter to Cary ws»tb g«. ! ]
This very amiable senator on his vny to congrcft j
in 1796, in company with his patriotic l.rother, one .
a devoted friend and advoea'cforFtenchprineipUs, 1
the othir, supposed by him, from certain striking ;
circßmft»nces, ro be a warm and decided adv cate 1
for the of Mr. Jefferfon "He hoptd," ,
" the latter gentleman had been doing ev- (
cry thing in his power toenfure< "e eleiftion of his
frieud Mr. Jefferfon as president ; that he had fe- 1
cured for htm all the votes in his state ; and th.it if
he was not'elected, he would make America Jkike
to berfoHrd.ition." Mr. Jefferfon we wtU know, j
was not ele&ed president. How Mr. Blount was
to make America Jtaie to ber foundation, and for
what, let this declaration, now added to that of
Du Pont de Ne'mours ; the exertions of Mr. Adet
and Blount to the fame objeft in the election of a
president ; the agency of Mr. Blount'sfri«nd (A
det) in the Canada scheme ; and Mr. Vice Presi
dent's unwillingness to be present and tiding in the
disgrace of his gocd friend, titiztn Bloullt—all pro
claim !
Whether this c«nfeflion of Mr. Blount, made
at that particular fiage of the business ought to
attra£> the notice of the committeecharged with
an enquiry into every circumitancc attending the
liulineti, is not for me to fay. One thing how
ever, becomes neccflary now fcr me to declare ;
and that is, the author of thefe'publications hold
ing it equally improper and mean to do either a
puWc Or private injury under a cover of any kind
Whatever, now offers, that if those who he con
ceives have injured thrit country in shat way,
and are har? pointed as, will condescend to come
forward and anlwer such questions as are here
put, and within their power to answer, he will,
00 his part, assume a more v.flble appearance,
and pledges himfelf to substantiate every thing
he his afierted : And, that any one who possess
es the principles of democracy and equality,lhould
holdhiinl'elf alonffrom the inquiries of the people
under an idea offuperitr dignity and worth, or
froip auy is only a confir
mation of their deceptive pretei ces in every way.
AMERICANUS.
* See Americanm Kc. 8, for an explanation of tbii
faa. '
~ BOSTON, Oaober 9.
* AUTHENTIC.
Copy of a letter from an American agent
for British spoliations.
London, 10th Aagujl, 1797-
You must not be surprised at my not writ
ing you on tHe business of your schooner
Sally, captain Runey ; —we have been for
months past in daily'cxpeftation that all the
Martinique captures would be tried, but as
yet they have not come out. I doubt whe
ther an acceptable sentence coald be ob
tained from either of the courts here.—
Next summer the commiflioners will take
up all the cases that come within the trea
ty ; I hope you may then obtain relief, but
there is no reason to expedl it sooner, or
from any other quarter.
I am, fir, your molt obedient servant,
SAMUEL CABOT.
Mr. John Brazier.
NEIV- H AVEN. 03.11.
On Sunday evening lajl, between 6 and 7. 0'
clock we experienced a violent gale of wind
from the weflward, attended with heavy rain
and thunder—The damage done in this town
was not great compared abith that done at Eajl-
Haven and Branford—the roofs of some build
ings were injured, the tops of chimneys blown off
and windows blown in, some trees aad fences
blown down, and a barn in the Newtoumfhip
removed from its foundation. / t Eafl-llavcn
the Reeple of the meeting house was blown down, j
which, fairing on the roof, brtie through the
fide where it fell, leaving anly one rofterJ,land
ing and penetrating to the floor greatly damaged
the feats. A large house was removed from ltd
foundation, several dwelling houses werepartlf
and others entirely unroofed, a number of barns
met the fame fate! One large barn was j entire- ;
ly denwlifhed, the materials of which it was
built feat ter'd in every direction. The town oj
Brarferd experienced nearly the fame fate,
part of the roof of the meeting-house was blown
off, and til the windows on the weflern hde,
deflr-oyed—6 or 7 houses, a newjore, andfeve
ral barns unroofed, other barns blown down,
the trees in several fine orchards laid proflrate.
\fhe height of the tornado continued but a few
minutes. —W/ W not karat all thtparticu-
lars of this difaflrqus gale nor bow, far the via- (
lencc of the florm extended. ]
On Monday lafl the P reft dent of the United ]
Slates arrivedin this city onhis may to the feat of <
Government. A number of reJpeSable citizens,
with Cap!. Higgins' trolp of horse met him at 1
afhort difiance from the city, and escorted him ]
to his lodgings. The previous notice of his ap- i
proach did not admit of a large collection, or a «
great fhent and parade., but we trufl, those <
who attended exhibited what is mueh more gra- i
tijying, viz. an anxiety to teflify their respect I
for the adminiflration of our government, and I
their affection to our President. i
» ■!« II II ► <
By this day's Mail. i
NEW-YORK, Oaober 13. 1
The President of the United States is <
arrived at East Chester. He is not expeft- 1
ed to come into the city until Monday next.
The entertainment is poltponed' to be given
on Wednesday.
CITIZFNS OF NriV-rORK.
While you are travelling along the road
ofbufincfs and pleasure, turn aside like the
good Samaritan of old and pour oil and wine
into the. \vound3 of your fuffering brethren
in Philadelphia. Although the bills of
mortality exhibit fewer deaths this year than
in 1793, yet one principal reason is, the
more general desertion of the city, and we
understand allbufinefsis suspended. Think,
fellow-citizens, what distress mud await the
numerous poor of a great city, who arc de
prived, for three months, of all employment.
In 1795, the citizens of Philadelphia gene
rously sent to the mayor of New-York 6000
dollars for the relief of tire poor j although
our diftrefles were trifling compared with
those of Philadelphia ; three fourths of our
city was free from the pestilence, and fix
sevenths of its inhabitants were pursuing
their occupations. Surely the citizens of
! NeVf-York, who have, this season Tcarcely
known sickness, among them, will not, in
prosperity, forget their fuffering brethren,
j By the report of General Ton (Taint Loy
-1 verture, it appears that Santhonax has long
! been attempting to detach Hifpaniola from
! its dependence on France, and has used e
i very effort to debauch ToufTaint from his
! allegiance. Santhonax, an abandoned villain,
who has enriched himfelf on the plunder of
the unfortunate colonists who were too hon
efl to join him in his villainies, would doubt
less wish to throw himfelf out of the reach of
the French government, and make himfelf
the petty despot of that island. But if he
supposed he could maintain the indepen
dence of that colony, in opposition to the
power of France, he is as weak as he is wick
ed.
The constituted authorities of the French
government or rather despotism in St. Do
mingo, confided of a motley crew. San
thonax, born in France where he has a fa
ther (till living. Raimond, a mulatto—and
Touffaint, a black man, military commander
in Chief. It appears however that these
officers who have African blood in their
veins, are infinitely the least criminal. Rai
mond and Touiffant are spoken of, by the
Americans, as men of more honor apd inte
grity than Santhonax—and men on whose
word some dependence can be placed.
Since Santhonax was sent away, the su
preme authority in St. Domingo devolves on
Julien Raimond, This man has ifTued a
pompous proclamation, addressed to the
people, in which he declares his attachment
and inviolable faith to the French republic—
That as he has both French and African
blood in his veins, the real French and the
people of other colours have nothing to
fear from him—all shall be prote&ed in their
rights. He fays that he has constantly en
deavoured to foften down the resentments
of the different parties—to calm animoli
ties and to inspire a love of labour, of order,
and of peace—to revive cultivation, which
alone can bring back prosperity. In this
he has so far succeeded, as he Hates, that
the plantations in the north of the island
have refumecj a smiling afpeft and become
productive. He promises to redlify the
enormous abuses introduced into the im
ports by Santhonax, whofc dlftribution of
the public money was fhamefully unequal &
unjust.
In this proclamation, Raimond has said
nothing in particular about the American
trade. He fays in general that " The
French merchants and Jlrangers are wit
nefles of the protection given to commerce
. and of the efforts of the adminiflration to
fulfil its engagements." He speaks of his
■ ardent desire to unite all the inhabitants in
one family and attach them to France—and
also to encourage cultivation, profeß com
merce and coufolidate the general prosperity.
How far there is sincerity in these pro
feffions, time will shew.
' SAVANNAH, September 23.
i We learn from the Havanna, that Santho
-1 nax arrived there, about the ift of this
1 month, from St. Domingo, in a sloop of
- war of 30 guns, which faluttd the Spanish
- admiral, who returned the compliment ;
f the morning after his arrival he was waited
s .011 at his landing by two officers, who con
!> ducted him in a carriage to the governor's ;
7 great refpedt was paid to him by the Spa
, j niards : That an advice boat, which left
e j Cadiz'about the 3d of August, had arrived
'- ; at Baracba, after a passage of 21 days ; the
y/ dispatches which she brought were sent over
s . land t<4 ; the Havanna, for the governor of
f that place and the governor of La Verk
s Cruz, and a frigate with the difpatefhes for
- the latter, failed the sth lnft. the contents
s were not made public, but it was reported
/": that orders had been sent for all the gold
- ""and silver, coined or uncoined, and even the
n ornaments of the churches, to be sent imme
•, diately to Spain.
' The caigo of the armed ship General Ni
1, choll, captain Morrifon, (mentioned in our
•. last) said to consist of new Negroes, it is
u strongly fufpefted will turn out to be French
i- Negroes, Mulattos*, &c. traufported from
Grenada, for having been iu at*ms with the
French against the Britilh in that island.
Captain Morrifon, with the supercargo,
part of the crew &c. of the General Nicholl, ]
are arrived in the yawl at St. Angnftine.
Sunday last arrived here, the fchponer
Nancy, from St Jago de Cub;. On'
pafTage from thence for Philadelphia (lie was J (
captured by a New Providence privateer,
and a prize master and four hands being put 1
on board, (he was ordered to proceed to Nas
sau. The captain of the schooner finding
the four privateerfmen to be deserterS from .
(hips of war, availed himfelf of the disincli
nation they appeared to have lor returning
to the Bahamas, and with the assistance of
his mate secured the p/itte,mailer, and meet- 1
irtfr with no oppofitipn the "English
fsilors bore away for this port. The prize
maftet (a native of Scotland) having de
clared himfelf to be a citizen of America, ;
has been committed to the federal gaol.
Monday last died here, c?pt. John Savage. '
And on Wednesday last also died, Mr. Isaac |
Hastings.
■ xtic
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVRNIMG, October 14
Totalaf.-4furia!s fn/" 24 hours, ending yefter
/ day at neon.
Grown Persons. Childrin
Christ Church I o j
Scots Prrlbytfri in I O j.
St. Maty't'Chnrch * 0
X o
Swedes' 1 1
German P-cformed I c
Potter's Fi«W o 4
City Hefprtalj" 9 o
17 a
• F.i 'ft frijn the citv a*Jfuburls.
The number of deaths on the 13th of Oilober
I T93i wits 104.
—f.l' ...
DiF.n—On TuefJay last, o' an irto-ard r'ecij,
Mr John Pott*«, of t i? my, late of London, !
a/ d brother tp Richard and James Pott„r, mer
chants, ot this city.
Since last publication, the Commiflioners |
have received the following donations, viz.
Dots, cts.
Cash 10
Clerks of the Bank of the!
United Staes—additional J
Dr. William Rogers 10
From inhabitantsof thectiy and
lebertitfs of Philadelphia, now
in and near Germantown—re
reived in a letter from Robert
Hare, John Dunlap, Joh* Mc
Culloch,Benj. Chew.jun, Hen
ry Pratt, Peter Baynton, Gid
eon Hile Wells and William
Wiftar—the lift of fubferibers
not yet come to hand 3»®9 ! 7°
For Edward Garrigues, Sec'ry.
BENJAMIN KITE.
N. B. There was a mistake in advertising •
the dnation received from Jos. Tatnall—it
(hould have been 15 barrels flour, instead of
14 middlings.
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Colleftcd for the use of the fuffering Jick poor,
&c. to le disposed of by a Committee ap
pointed at a meeting of a few\Citixens, on
the 14th of Auguji, .1797 ! and\ received
from that day to the 11 th Odober, inclusive.
Dollars.
Philip Nicklin & Co. of Philadel. 100
Michael Keppele of do. 8
James Gibfon of do. 8
Samuel M. Fox- of do.
Joseph P. Norris of do. 8
James Strawbridge of do. 20
Thomas M'Euen of do. 10
Anna Palmer do. 20
Mordecai Lewis do. 30
Dr. Martin (collected from feveraj
inhabitants of Chester county &
otheis whom the difeale exiled
from Philadelphia) 15® 3°
S. G. of Philadelphia 20
John Aftlcy do. late of G- B. 200
Simon Walker do. 5°
Peter Blight do. ioo
Elias Boudinot do. late of N. Jer. 50
Robert Ralfton—(the fubfeription
of divers inhabitants of Philadel
phia, now at-,Wilmington,) 3°°
Jacob Shoemaker—(the further
fubferiptions of ditto) 100
Richard Folwell (fubferiptions of
three Phjladelphians) 6
Do. do. of three citi
zens of Wilmington, 6
Nathaniel Falconer of Philadelphia 20
Tfaac& Ed. Pennington, of do. 100
Henry Philips, of do. 100
Jared Ingerfoll, of do. 166 66
John Traves, of do. 100
per Stephen Girard of do. 10
Wiliiam Tiffin, do. 20
1728 960;
The above fubferiptions are applied in a
particular manner to relieve the sick, in their
private families, which are visited by some
one of the Committee, in the City and Li
berties.
Published by Order of the by
SAMUEL COATES, Trefurer.
*„* The several Printers of N^fpfP
ers will oblige the inferring
the above.
In the year 1795, the ipumber of votes
given fqr Senator in the county of Delaware
was 12 56, of which 1060 were for the* feder
al candidate —ln 1797, the votes in the fame
county amount only to 671, of which 47 1
were for the federal candidate Hence Ihe
result of the late ele&ion.
%
' medicines.
THE Poor who may find it inconvenient, from
' diftacce, to make use of Mr. Hunter's truly me
ritorious offer, will be fuj plied with
5 fapo, barley, oatmeal, Aec. by applying at th(
1 fubferiber's store, No. 36, Market-11 ic.;.
, ROBERT S. &TAFTOS.D.
, CITY HOSPITAL REPORT, | P e;
From 13th to 14th Otk. in the morning: tdu
Admitted, since last report, J ret
Letitia Hale—62, North Fifth street. j am
Maiy Engers—Smith's, Plumb,' above Se- of
cond street. , ina
John Davis—Pine, near fiixth street. wo
1 Catharine Bucharman—Vernon street. (we
Discharged, since last report. j die
Neal M'Dnnigale, admitted 23d ult. ' thr
(ho
Remaining last report 46 ter
Admitted since 4 del
pei
50 wVi
DifchargeJ I pa
i Died None I yel
K™,m f» Hofplul. t:
Four of whom are dangerou3. us
In erred since last report. jac
From city and suburbs ' 6 i int
Hospital ed
—— mi
, \Total 6 tn
Stephen Girard. to,
(Signed) . Caleb Lownes. Un
John Connelly.
i Publilhed by order of the Board, vai
Wm. MONTGOMERY, vie
Chairman pro tem. tin
cu
The Infpe&ors of the Health-Office feel en
it their duty to advise their fcllotv-citizens, nn
whose families are out of town, not to re- d'ir
I turn to the city for a few days ; for although ! na
at present there is a great appearance of the his
'■ prevailing fever's subsiding, ft ill as an un- fu'i
favorable change may take place, thofcwho vvl
are out of town, we conceive, had better thi
not move in, particularly to the lower parts fa'
of the city and Southwark, until the difor- hi:
dv has more generally subsided ; and in the pe
time to employ proper perfon3 to air ge
and cleanse itheir houfeß- '
I . \ Published by order of the Board, wl
Wm. Montgomery, in
Chairman pro tem. bs
October 13, 1797. fu
m
MR. TF.NNO, W
The distribution of the public grant has th
hitherto been without that caution which I ta
expected. poor are gathered to the pr
Jieart of the city from all quarters, and pro- th
bably from, those houses where the sickness 01
rages : those persons mingle with others, so
and we cannot deny that the contagion by w
this means is transferred from house to iv
house in every direftion. Perhaps the dt
minds of the commiflioners being dire&ed te
to the main objeft, has prevented their th
adoption of some plan whicn would fully th
answer trfie design of the grant, and also of gi
the numerous donations for the support of dt
the a/Sifted. V
Some plan, as follows, would be attend- re
ed with many advantages: fy
Th« Board being comprized of perfens ju
from varioiiß quarters of the city, let a cer- w
tain diftritt be afligned to each ; let the te
poor in that diftridt apply to him only, and ti
his care reach to those only who are certi- g<
'fied as belonging to that part of the city, tl
This would enable the commifiioners to ex- re
ecute their business with dispatch, which g
, would be attended with manifold advantages h
. ko, the objefts of the public bounty, and n
-1 more readily prevent the spreading of thf e'
/ contagion. I tl
ONE OF THE PEOPL# rr
Translated for the Salem Gaiettefrom a Ip- J
ris paper of the 28th of June. J I 1(
On the rage for Republicaniling and Muni- f c
cipalifing all around us. f,
When the French revolution firft' began, t ,
mar;y honest men, facrificing their personal t )
intereft'to justice, and their paflionsto truth, a ]
devoted themselves courageoufiy to the ha- f,
tred of a crowd of implacable enemies, and
followed with a zeal the new apostles of li- , p
berty. They firmly believed that the war ! a:
which was about to take place would be a ; t]
j war of principles again ft prejudices, morali- ,f,
ty against intrigue, of love of country against : (]
love of riches and privileges, of laws against j £
arbitrary power, and offweet tempered phi- t ]
lanthropy against intriguing and winding f,
policy. They hoped that "Trance would w
soon fee all citizens judged by the fame f,
laws, and promoted without diftinflion, to y
those employments which their merit would {]
render them worthy of ; that the criminal
code, foftened, would offer a certain pro- r
te&ion to innocence, and punifliments pro- ti
portioned to every crime ; that the taxes n
lessened, would be equally distributed ; and
that unjust ways of ambition and vanity,
would never take place, to create disorder in
the finances, languifhment in commence, ste
rility in the fields, and mourning in fami
-5 lies. The constituent aflembly had establish-
J ed, in principle, that France, contented
with its limits, renounced formally all ideas j
of conqneft ; and this noble and wife de- a
claration was fufficient to secure to us the
_ good wishes of all people, the friendthip of
all pacific governments, and to enable us to t
j. aft the glorious part of arbiters and peace-
maimers of Europe. How much has this £
• L sweet hope been fruftrated. The abolish- k
" ment of lettres de cachet was wished, and _
France is filled with Baftiles ; a humane cri
' minal code was deiired, and the Repuolic
has been covered with"ftaffolds, and inun
dated with blood ; moderate taxes were ex- |
S pe£ted, and all'property has been violated,
invaded, dilapidated ; exclusive privileges _
were destroyed, but the Jacobins have form
-s cd new fefts who have usurped all power.—
re Commerce and agriculture thought, t nat, <
r " released from their ancient (hackles, they j
,e fhiuld arrive to the highest degree of prof- I
1 perity ; but the taxes, the pro-confuis, the '
le revolutionary laws, the afiigiiats, the stock
jobbers, have exhausted and almost del
troyed, these sources of thenational riches.
Finally ; after having pulled down these
>m Reuolutionary Tyrants, and proscribed
e * their infernal system ; after having conquer
- ed all the kings leagued against us ; France
whose vidlories had secured her the power
of dictating to Europe the conditions of
j peace, still hoped that its government, can
j du&ed by legillatorj freely eledled, would.
; return to their true principles of moderation
■ and jufticr, a:>d ftcure to us the enjoyment
ie- of a b Idling so dearly puichnfed ; th it,' hav
ing so juiliy condemned the thrt
won Id have interfered in our ennfUtutign,
! v.'e fhouid be so wife ourselves as not .to med
die in the aiiaivs of other governments ; aad '
that, profiting by the peace of Europe, we
fliouid lay the foundation of solid peace,' cou
-4.6 tenting ourselves with moderate and just in
-4 demnities, and leaving to none, in this res
— pe£l, that mortification and resentment ,
50 which change *peace into a truce, and pre
pare for terrible vengeance to come. And
I yet; by an inconceivable fatality, this hope
49 is (lilL.difappointed ; our revolutionary de
liriurft is which subsiding within, Sgitatvs
us more than ever without ; the genius of
jacobinism, in abandoning the rein j of our
6 , interior adminillration, feerns to have possess
ed itfelf of our exterior politics ; and they
might fay, by way of consolation for the
6 truce which they were obliged to ccaifent
to, that we were determined to overthw the
universe.
We might excuse ourselves for having in
vaded and pillaged Italy.; war is a transient
violation of the laws of justice. The obsti
nacy of our enemies ; the abundance of pe
cuniary means that London furnifhed to Vi
ccl enna ; our penury ; the necessity of putting
ns, nn end to the war by great efforts, and fplen
re- did vi&ories ; all rnayjuftify us ; and Buo
gh naparte has, in this refpeft, by his valor,
:he his adlivity, his genius, realized, and even
in- fu'rpaffed our moil fanguir.e hopes ; and
ho when ofi his way to Vienna, in order to force
ter the emperor to make peace, he probably
rts favored some infurreclions, which secured
or- his communications, and which, durinp- hi*
• ' O
the perilous and triumphant march,4cft no dan
air ger behind him.
But when peace has followed viftory ;
!, when there isexpedtedof us asmuchfrankncfs
"in negociation, as we have displayed valor iu
battle ; when we can offer, as conquerors,
fufficient compenCations, why to the
mod contemptible duplicity ? Why excite
infiu in order to punifli, afterwards,
has those against whom we diredl them ? Why
h I talk of the will of the people, when the
the presence of our bayonet 3 deprives them of
>ro- the power of expressing it freely ? Why
tefs overthrow neutral governments, after having
er3, so long profited by their neutrality ? If we
by would be the conquerors of these people,
to why talk to them of repuhlicanifm and in
the dependence ? If ye wifii them to become
iled Republicans, and independent, why speak to
aeir them as amafter, give them orders, name to
jlly them, imperatively, municipalities, direftors,
>of generals? Why defpotife freemen ? Why
. of deceive weak and pacific governments ?
Why mark all our steps with desolations and
nd- revolutions? Shall we never feel that such a
' system is as contrary to found policy as to
"ens justice ; that it juftifies in some measure,
:.er- what has been, and what may yet be, at
the tempted to overthrow our ->6wn conftitu
and tion ; that it diffitisfies and incenses all
:rti- governments against us, and may cause
ity. them to unite with our enemies; that it
ex- renders uncertain the peace which we are
lich going to make since the resentments which
iges have nouriihed the war are like to become
and more universal and more violent than they
thf ever have been? And if we will be deaf to
the voice of justice, and to the language of
moderation, (hall we never perceive that it
is not prudent for the Gauls to refucitatethe
Romans; and that it is not wife to give to
neighbours a mode of existence vvhichexcites
uni " so much energy, which creates in a moment
, | such ftro'ng armies, and condudtsfo tapidly
, 3 "> to victory? The Jacobins already boast of
bnal the forces that, are preparing for them, they'
already glory in the new country which is
' la " founding for them in Italy; already, count-
ing on their numerous partisans in the south
| provinces, they publi/h, with as much joy
w:ir as imprudence, thehope of returning here,
be a ! thunder in hand, to seize again their fright
rail" | fill power, and to immolate, without pity,
linft 1 the viftims devoted to their iniernol fury.'
nnft Diredlory! tear off the bandage with which
phi- the paflionsblind you; open youj eyes! con
hug fult-thc wife policy of the new colleague
inld whom the public voice has given you! and,
ame following counfe's more prudent, secure
» to your existence and our tranquility, in gran,
juld ting repose to the universe, which has been
linal f a long tormented by sophists without expe
pro- rience, ambitious men without controul, and
pro- theories without foundation. We long e
axes nough hava caused ourselves to be feared—
and it is now time that we fhouid make ourfelve*
>'7» beloved.
r ' n —-mrnimm
gazette marine list.
lifh- Port of Philadelphia.
ited The brig Nancy, capt. Geddes, from
deas Port-a'u-Prince for Philadelphia, is arrived
" e " at Wilmington.
) g f New-Tori, 03. 13.
is to Arrived. . days.
, ace> Ship Edinburgh Packet, Farquhar, Leith
this ® r 'S Rowenna, Mariner, Port-au-Prince 21
r,i, Schr. Lark, Woedward, St. Johns 13
and Peggy, Bedford, Halifax 20
iblic Medical Ledlures
nun . In the ITn'iverfity of Penrfylvania, are post
» poned until the Uft Monday in November
" c *~ next,
ittd, Oilofcer 14. staw4w.
.eges . __
An UMBRELLA
WAS taken (supposed to have been ilolen.) on
•"J 3 .' Sunday even ng la> , from the houfc occupied by
they jyir. Blunt,No 9, Strawbcrry-ftr^et:—lt isagrren
prof- fi!k Umbrella, of tic middle fiz v/ith a red me
i, the rocco top and hooked ivory head.—Conceiving it
ock- to ave iecn ,a * ten some pilfering knave, who,
' , av f Juatfdby y«cuniary motives, may endeavor to
c " vead.the fame, any peri"«n or persons to whom xh?
chcs. iJii.i may v be offered, are defirt:d to ftcp it;
these a:ld it is Impeti, will appreTiend and the
ribed thiet to justice. The peculiarity of rhc
will evid-j.rtly, fu 1 tha pofieiTor to dete«stion
" ' thi-r-jtore, r apprehends the fame and deli v-'
ranee crs i t ? ;t Mr Blunt's, from whence it was taken,
ower or £ Mr. Feuuo's efLce, ilaaH be handJ'orcc jy
ns of warded. , . —<. l jtImported in thefhip Manchester,
Benjamin Shkv.'ell, Matter,
From Boftrd&ux', an.-J f'nr sale by the l'ubfi fiber,
■No. jt Walnut St tet.
Bonrdeaux Brandy
Tnfh market claret fn cases Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do.
Thomas Murgafreyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter caflcs
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
'Io be fold at Public Vendue,
To tlie highest bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, tHe fipn of the Inuian
Qvecn, in the city of Baltimore, on the 15th
day .\f Otflober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
About seven thuufand acres of land,
the prop»rty of William Bell, of f'VlladelpJtMy
lying between Reiftcr't-town and Weflmiiifte-r,
commonly called Little Win< heller, (the turn
pike road runs through a conlulsrable part of
thcfc lands) the traft begins about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a tW hundred .yards
of said Ueifler's-town, and extends to' the tfif- 1
tar.ee of about twenly-thrce miles from Balti
more, and l<es on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will |
be "fold in trails «f one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each trail,
some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine gr;,fs.
At so
A trad of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, nilhhrfive miles of
Bladenfhurg, elleemed very good so
Richard Ponfonby.of BladetilLurgh, will (hew
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
ALSO,
A trad of land of about three hun
dred and thirty a»res, within about two miles 1
and a half ot the Prefident't house in the Fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpe<3, fron; which may be fcen the
cfty of Walhington, Bladenlburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfon
by, of Bladenfborg, will also fbew this land.
A liberal credit will be given sos the greatest
part of the purchase money, i'he term# will
ke made known on the day ef sale.
May 8 wjttt
Just Keceived,
From Butavia (via Providence) ,
a few BoxKsof Spices, confiftir.g of ,i
Nutmegs, Clovcsand uace *]
For sale by 1
WILLINC-Stf FRAXCIS,
Penn street.
May 30 dtf i
Davis's Laiv Book Store, \
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
T3EING buficd for fom- time pafl in prrpara- 1
JD tions for removing into his prutent house, hat
been under thcnece.Tityof poftpuning until thitday 1
informing the gentlemen ofthe Bar generally thro' !
the United States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for lale, on r
ten itthat he trulls will entitle him to the like pre*
frtence he has experienced for several years pad.
Catalogues, combining the mod varied eollee
tiori ever imported i/ito this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
June 17. law 6w
, . F
City Office, ' I
June tl, 1797. 1
IN pyrfuance of an ordinance from the feledl 1
and common councils, pafled the aid day of v
May last, appointing the city cwiimiffioixrs,
and prescribing their duties, feilion 9th,
NOTICJK IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diUriAs, |
each to be under the fuperintendance of one of j.
the city commissioners, u hois to be individually (
rtlponfible for the cleanliness of the fame, and t
are as follow.
Drillrijl No. I. From the south fide of Ce- 0
dar-ftreet, to the north fide of Spruce-street, mi
rths superintendence of Nathan Boys.
». From the north fide of Spruce-llreet, to .
the north fide of Walnut-street, under the super
intendence of Hugh l<ohert6. j 4
3. From the nortkfide of Walnut to thefouth
fide of ffigh-ftreet, under the superintendence of -
Joseph Claypoole. /
4. From the north fide of High-street, to the
north fidr of Mulberry street, under the super
intendence of William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberry-street to
the north fide of Vine-flreet, under the super- r
intendenec of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaningof High-street to be in common, f"
CT A flatecl meeting of the city commilfion- w
«rs is held at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tutfday evening at 5 o'clock. ? !
July 14. eoim ) e
—i—— D
Stands for Draymen, &c. Ci
tji purjuanet of an Ordinance from theSelefl and
Common Councils,bearing date the lid day of
/.pril, 1797, providing for the appointment of at
City Qnnm\ffi»nerif (3c. Sect, the \sth. q
r ~l "'HE following places are fixed upon by the f e
X said City Commissioners for Stands for si
Draymen and thejr Horfet. u
In Vine-flreet, eastward of Front-street, on
both fides. p
SalTafras, High, Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets, tl
eastward of Front-street, on the no.-th fide only. \
Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to t(
Third-street.
Front-ftreat, east fide from Vine-ilreet to '■
Elfrith's alley-
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al- w
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Water-street, weft fide from the north end of
Stomper's or Moore's stores to Pine-flreet. "j
Penn-ilreet from Pine to Ce-Jar-flreet, weft .
fide. I
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Frrtnt-ftreet.
Spruce, Pine ani South flreets, east of Front j
street, south (ide.
Dock-street, between Walnut-street and the a
flag stone croffioge, east fide, opposite George ol
Orkley's. bi
Second-street, between Saflafras and Vine a ,
flreets, weft fide. ci
Fifth-llreet, east fide from Cliefnut to Mul- L
berry streets.
Saflafras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-street,
•aft fid?.
No dray or horse to stand within ten feet of
anvpump. hi
STANDS FOR HACKNEY COACHES. r
Pine-street, north fide from Fourth to Fifth ce
greets. ®
Fifth-ftreet, between Chefnut and Walnut <la
flreets, weft. ' r
Branch-flrcet, north fide, between Third and j r '
Fourth streets. A
July 14. Hiw&fim P r
A Literary Treat.
rr, pMlfhcd, handsomely printed on writing
paper, price I dollar,
\ new edition of -that popular and entertaining
hf) work, entiled
3 HE FORESTERS, an American Talc ; being
la fequcl to the hi(tory of John Bull, the Clo
thier— In aftiiesof letters to a friend, with thead
dition of t\\o letters, alluding to recent political
traitfaiflioniin America.
1 his following extraif>. from the Clavii AUi
thews the principal charaAets that ar^uitroduccd:
John Bull, tile Kingdom of jEngland
Hi* Mother, the Ctiirch of kngland'
the Parliament
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Pati ick, lraland
Lewis, the Kingdom of France
H.i«MiftreS, the Old Conftitutioo
r. His n&4 Wife, the National Rcprefentation
i n . Lord Strut, the Krnsdom 4* Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic
* The Fare Iters,' the United States of Ameri( a
Robert Lumber, New-Hampshire
* John Codline,
Humphrey Plow (hare, Connecticut
Roger Carrier, Rhode Island
Peter Bull Frjg, New-York
■ s t Julius C%lar, New-Jerfey
'B j William Broadbrim, PennfyWania
Caflimar, Delaware
i- Walter Pipewood, Virginia
0 Hi* Grandson, George Walhington
II [ Peter Pitch, North Carolina
3 ChaiMcs Indigo, South Carolina
George Trusty, Georgia
f Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
t Hnntar Longknife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slave*
Rats, Speculators
p Mother Carey's Chiakens, Jacobiui
ss* "Jhis popular and entertaining satirical bifto-
ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel
kna». It liasa great share of originality and a
? bemnds with genuine humour. It is continued
I down to the present time, and ch«-a(Slerifeß those
i late political tranfa&ions which hav« caused so
. , much uneafincfs in America.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookfellcr, No. 16,
Soufh Second Street, and No. jo, Marke*
June 26. v t
1 LAW BOOKS,
1 Lateil London and Dublin Editions.
H* 5s 9 P. RICE, Booksellers*
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the Ute arrivals from
London and Dublin, their spring importa
tion, confiftingof a rariety of the lat*ft and mod
approved I,aw Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the moftextenfive ev
er offered for sale in thin country. They thei efore
beg leave to noti<jr, that from the nature of their j
conne<3icnsin Dunlin, they are enabled to felllriih
, editions (as they have hitherto at the very
"lowcft prices. The following are among the latest
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1
Peake s Cases at Nili Prius Ridgeway\ Re
r ort *
in the time of Lord Hardwicka ; F1 oyer's Procters
PraAice in tl.f Ecclesiastical Courts ; Barton's
F reatife on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Practice of
the oourt of King's Bench in Personal Anions, »
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, 11 vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rice catpeA to receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete, of
Durnfbrd and East's Reports, the ad part of Gil
bert s Law of Eridence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 26, -v
rhe rfiftory of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
Tg now in the prels, and will be published,
A wkh all convenient expedition, by ZtCHA
RIAH Poulson, jun. No. 80, ChcfniK-ftreet,
I hiladelphia, where fubfertptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the pninted propofalt, until the
work is ready for the fubferibers. /
/July it. lawtf
The Partnerihip,
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN {s* Company,
is difloWed by mutual confest. All persons
having any demands against the said House are de
sired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to the House aredeCred to make pay
ment to him—By whom bufineft will in future b!
carried on.at huStore, No. 39, South Front-street.
jiugvjt 7. sod4w
- Richard and "James Potter
HAVF. removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftreet.
* uguft x. w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijburgh Carlijle,
Shippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requested take notice, that i
the partnerihip which hat f«r some time fub
fiiled between Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Oeer, it now difTolved: but, not as M.
Slough inflnuatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
jedl from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necefTary. Any gentleman who wiflies to be.
more cireumftantially informed of the merit* of
! this hufincft, to W. Geer may have
the perusal sf M/Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfe&ly juftifiable in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf- 1
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous fnpport the '
public were pleafed-to confer on the firft effort in 3
this business, VI illiam Geer, in conjuniftion with
MelTrs. Reiiy, Weed and Witmer, is determined j
toprofecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poflibly exert. t
The ajiove company, who are amply provided t
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to l
render the passage fafe and rommodious, inform
those wno wilh to patronize and eneourage the n
•undertaking, that th#y can take tlieS feats at h
George Weed's, the figJi of the White Horse, e
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to procetftf-to Lancaster, Harrifburg, c
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare at hitherto V
eftablilhed. i.
For the further accommodation ot the public, f<
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house t
of Samuel Elder, in Harriftmrg, arrive at Sun- si
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday, v
and return from thcuce and arrive at Harrifburg tl
etcry Saturday, so that paflengcrs destined for I
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon- b
.days. i.,
WILLIAM GEER. tl
-Lancaster, Jan. 17, 1797. h
N. B. ' This Line ef Stages darts from the
house of William Ferroc, in Lancaster, on every f
Tuesday arid Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro- o
cceding to the westward; and from the fioufe of tr
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrivet at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns b.
from thence on every Thursday : performing the G
fame routine daily at in iu tour from' Fhiladel
phia. niwf
jdays.
Advertilement.
j„ On the 20th of November next in Alexandria
(being court day), will be exposed for sale one
or more covering Jacks, and several young
ones of different ages and fi«es ; all defcemjed
i„ f rnn i Royal Gift (an imported jack from Spain,
° upwards of 15 hands high) out of imported
Jinnies from Malta, full 14 hands high.
a | Ihe terms of sale (or if not fold, of letting
I them for one or more seasons to cover) will
then be nude known: the payments may be
d: m ade easy to the purchaser, bond and fecwity
being given for the amount, with interelh
At the fame time and place, fundrv
Horffj anc j Mares will be offered for sale. The
latter having been to the Jacks, are probably
with foal.
JAMES. ANDERSON, Maiuger.
our-t-Vernnn, a®tn }
September, 1797. ) iaw4w
Insurance Company of the State
a of Pennsylvania.
pHE Oflice will be kept until further notice at
» the School'Houfe in Germantown. The
Company still retain the room in phefnut, above
Seventh street, pcrfon will attend to re
ceive give answers to applications, every day
from 10 until I o'clock.
• Cie P t T ds.V2.awtf
1 homas Armat and Son,
OF PHILADELPHIA,
INFORM their cuflomers and the public, they
have removed a part of their merchandize to
Wilmington : Also, they their store open in
the city. .At either place their friends can be sup
plied, and their orders carefully attended to
By the Cumberland, from Hull, they have re
ceived a handsome aflerttnent of articles, suitable
to the approaching season ; aud exped to add to it
by other fall {hips.
Should the sickness prevail in the central part of
the city, that branch of theif business will be re-
uioved to Germantown.
The communication by poll is open and ra»
| gular as usuaL 1
Sept. 18. thtf
, TO BESOLD VERT CHEAP /
A Light W A GGON almost new, with a frame—
and a pair of harness (English collars) has never
been used—price go Dolls.
A Horse 16 hands high, seven years ©ld—and a
new chair, with a falling top and harness 310.
Enquire No. 331, Market-street
Augult 24. dm
• For sale or to be let on grourTd
rent,
A -valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
House (tjuare. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on' Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; are »t
present two fmail two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry and SafTafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward nine:y-five feet, then widening to the j
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
ave tbe convenience of a public alley adjoining
on the ndrth fide, and are a very desirable fitna
tion for a merchant, flour fadlor.or others who i
may have occasion for (forage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable twins j
s for calh. For further information apply to the 1
"printer.
July 31. iniwtf
TO B E S O L D,
And poflefjion given immediately ,
ALARGK two tliJy brick House, handsomely
fituatedin Princeton. There are four rooms
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings 51 feet in
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. There is a pump
in the yard, an excellent kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
stables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two stables for 27 horses. The heal
thiness and pleasantness ot its Situation, and tht
number #f genteel and agreeable families in and
near the town, render it a dcfirahle retreeat for a
gentleman from the city. The commodioufnefs of
the house, its central position, and the largeness of
the ftables,make itjevcry wiiyfuitableforatavern,for
which it has always been confiderd as a capital
fta.id. Inquire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. 15. 19—diwzawtf
City of Wafliington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No, 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent d welling-houfe 20,000 dollars,
& calh 30,000, are jo,oo
I ditto 15,000 & cash 25,000 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 3«,ooo
t ditto 10,000 & calb 10,000 10,0110
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 io,cioo
1 caflt prize of . ro.ooo >
2 do. 5,000 each,are • 10,000
10 dro. 1,000 - - ifl,ooc
10 do. 500 - - to,ooo
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
»oo do. 50 - v - 10,000
400 do. 25 " - - 10,000
1,000 do. 20 - 20,000
15,000 do. id - 159^000
'<>>739 Prizes.
3i?26i Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dolfars, 400,00s
N. B. Tofavour thofc who may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the l ast drawn ticket, and the 30.000.the last
but oni :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
money or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received foi any number not left than 3b tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen ef
the private buildings to be ert<3ed in the City of
WafHingtpn—Two beautiful designs are alrAdy
lele&edfcr the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from tficfe drawicgMt ispropolcd toereel
twocentreand 'our corner buildings as foonaspof
fible after this lottery isfold,Hhdto conrey them,
when complete, t« the fortunate adventurers, ic
the manner described in the feheme for tjie Hotel
Lottery. A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the fu'rplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Umverfity, to
be ere&ed within the city of Wafliington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the paym«nt of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount ol the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
,§« Tiekets may be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Oilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
•and of Richard Walls,. Cooper's Fefry.
mwf
This Day Published,
, I And to be fold by WJLLIAM YOUNG, comer of
; Second and Chefnut streets,
r Price J-Btti of a Dollar,
i Observations on certain Documents
* Contained ih No. V and VI iof
1 44 The History of the United State! for
the year 1796,"
' In which the speculation a^ainft
; ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary Treasury, is FULLY
REFITOI).
'WRITTEN BY HI M\S Kir.
This publication presents a ccnciie statement
F the base means pravflifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to afperJe the charachscs of those
perions who arc con fide red as hoftih: to &e»x disor
ganizing ichenies. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Mefrjs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on the fitb
, je&ot the documents aforefjud, and a furies of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the portability of a doubt,
. that the connexion between him and' Reynolds,
was the relult of a daring confpiraay on the part
Jjf the latter and hi* aflbciates 10 extort money.
difcount of one third from the retail pcice
will be made in favor ot wholesale purchasers, for '
gash. Orders to be addrcfled to Mr Y.qvng
Auyrud 25.
No. 188.
DiflriS of Pennsylvania, to wit :
(l. s.) U E 1T REMEMBERED, that on the
J3 twenty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of' America, John Fenno, of the said dif
triisl,hath deposited in this office the title of a book,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit :
" Observations on certaia documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of " The History of the Unit
" ed States for the year 1796," in wliich tht? charge
" of speculation, again(t Alexander Hamilton, late
44 Secretary of the Treafnry, is fully refuted—
" Written by himfelf "
In conformity to'Ke a& of theCongrcfs of the
Ucited States, entituled, "An ail for the encour
agement q[ learning, by feeuring the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors and propri
etors of such copies, during the times therein men
tioned." <
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk 9/ the Dijirifl of Pru*fylvania.
July 27. W4W
•The Inhabitants of the
of Southwark,
A RE informed that a Ooachee is provided, to be
l\. kept at the Constables' office, the north east
corner of Front and Almond ltreets, where the
| friends of those sick pcrfons who desire to be rs
! moved to the City Hospital, arc requeftcd to make
application—Also, a Hearse will be kept in readi
ness for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
N. B.— The Poor. who wish to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may be furniflied with orders
by applying 86 above Aug. 29
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 south Second-S reet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, Noi 11, which
commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac
! ceunt of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each,.on the last day of
| drawing*.
Check Books kept for examination and register
ing, in the Canal, No. a, City of Waihington, No.
1, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets for sale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkomen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing ia the course ef the summer.
The business of a Broker in alt kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, I-ands, &c- &c. tranf»&ed with the
utmost attention.
June 1 tu&f
Erfkine's Vievr of the War.<
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMi'BELL & Co.
No 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 CentsT
A View of the Causes ana Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable-Thomas Erskine.
May 15 }
STATE TRIALS.
Sold b W. Bookfeller, No. 5», South Sc
- cond-ftreet,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial.and acquis
al of Francis Hopkinfen, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Kicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large Bvo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general aflortmentof
Booksi Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
ege, well aflorted, and entitled to the drawback if
aiported. July 1— *
For Sale,
That well known place, called VANDEakirr's
F F* ty,
ON Nefhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York port road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premises are a large two story ftbne house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a lirge frame stable with a good
floor, and l'ome out buildrngs—alfo a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a molt elegant situation fora gentle
man s feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny to its jun&ion wiih the OelawaK, and thence
across to the Jerky shore. h has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the SnM'criber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
Mav 14- jtawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpedf, returns her fmcere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encourageme»t
(he has received during four years refitlense in
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, Ihe has madea superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
educatien is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and masters excelling in their
refpedlive profrflionj.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. $ imJVf
The fituatian is perfectly healthy ; andnuide
more agreeableby an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the Jioufe.
fujl Published,
And t;o he had of Nleffrs. Doifon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Booksellers in the
city,price one dollar, twmty-five cents,in hoards,
New Views of, the Origin of the ]
Tribes and Nations of. America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
June »o. . '6t 1
Rofs y Simfon,
■ HaVI FOR SALE
C Hoglheads,
Excellent Coffee in j Tierces, and
C Barrels.
A small parcel of nice cocoa ih bajjs
A few puncheons Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior Teneriffee wine, old and in Madeira pipes
An invoice of jewellery and hosiery to he .fold by
the package t
A few hampers #f heft cheefe,
T"'r *7. dtf.
The Sitbfcriher has for Sale,
A large alTortment ef India Muflinj,
coarse and fine
India Calicoes
Sooty Romalls
B'ue Cloths and Checks
Bandanna Htndkerchiefs
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An ki voice of Irilh Linens and Sheetings, wcH
assorted
A box of Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
Two bores of fine Spices, cotaininj Nutmegs,
Mace and Cloves "
Black Pepper of firft quality
East India Gingar
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Win*
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brinjftone
Mordecai Lewis.
Higgins' Specific
Fob TUB t
PREVENTION AND CURE OF THE
YELLOW FEVER.
EVER since this disease mida such ravages in t'lis
1 cityiand New-York, the author ha* turned his
attentioif to its causes and cure.—The result of his
enquiries has convinced him that the reason why so
few persons recover from its attacks, vet from its
not being well understood, and the consequent
wrong method taken to cure it. He is persuaded
that theexceffive bleedigns and mercurial reatmeut
of the Faculty is highly injurious and that the on
ly rational mode of treatment is by the use of prop fr
Convinced of this he offers his Sfecifit as a
certain remedy, if used accordingjo the dire&ions.
To be had in bottles, at one dollar each, of the
inventor G,o. Higgins, Cherry street, two doors a
bove Ninth street, (late manager of Jackson and
Co's Medicine Warehouse, London):; by f.Le
\"«',No. 2-6 ; IV. Griffith, No. 177, T. Pent, No.
iiVJjouth Third ftre.t, T. Sl!f, No. jj,New street,
near Vine street, and J. Gala, No. 36, Race street.
1 5- tuths jt
COUGHS, COtDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just receiveslpby W», Griffiths, No. I ? 7,South
Second-street, s frefh supply of
Genuine Bal/am of Honey, ,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hill
(who knowledge as aßotanift procured him
the appellation of the Linnjeus of Britain) and is
•onfidered in England as a certain cure for the abort
complaints; it is also of Angular efficacy'in the
Hooping Cough,
It may also be had retail of W. A. Stores, No.
61, South Second street, and T. Stiff, 55, New
ftreet, in bottles at 75 cents each.
Wm. Griffiths having observed the happy ef
fe<S of the medicine, (several cases of cures hav
ing come within his own knowledge) and the great
demand for it has ipduced him to order, a large
supply, a part of which he has just received.
3- law} w
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on Saturday I J»ft, two indented Ser
vants, Giffcrd Dally, a mulatto boy, about 17
years of age, a slim light built a£ive ftllow, can
read ana write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
has a heavy countenance had on a fuftian coatee
and a high crowned hat, fins ftioes &e.
Allan Hellons, a black man,
age, five feet feveli or eight inehes high,a thick fee
clumsy built ftllow, particularly about the breech;
had on a sailor's blue jacket lined with fwaofkin',
dark striped vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
oat, coarse ftioes, &c.; each of them had several
Ihirts and several other cloathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or 15 dol
lars for each, and reasonable charges, on delivering
them at No. 54, North Third-street.
The black fellow is about a year from Letris
Town, in the County of Sussex, state of Dela
ware, and has taken the hoy with him.
J"'y 31- mtu&fjw
Tj be SOLD or RENTEDT
A LARGE 3 Story Brick House, on the
\S<7urh fide of Filbert street, bttween
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
veyor General's Offig:.
The Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet deep,
the l»t lie feet deep, with the privilege of a nine
feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
to turn in. The is not plastered, and
may be turned eithertato one, or two dwelling
Houses. It isfuitable so!" a large Manufactory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
poflTefiion will be given.
Apply to ITo. 111, Chefnut-Street.
Anp.ir. cod^t.
Mtifical Injlrument Manufactory,
No. 167, Arch r StTtet.
HARPER, harpfichord,grand, portsble graxd,
fid 5-board, pier table and fquarc piano forte
maktrfrom London, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hopes that by his afiiduity and attention to ev
ery branch of his business, to irerit a eontinuanci
of their favors. Pnno fertes made on the newest
and most approved plans, with pedals, patent,
swell, and French harp flop, whrch hefU.tteis
himfelf will u e found en trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not superior to any import
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inftni
msnt purchased of him, if not approved of i-t*
twelvemonths, he will exchange.
! N.B. All kinds at Musical instruments matter,
uned, and repaireo with the greatest accuracy,
dispatch, and on the most reasonable term?, In
ready money only.
Second hind Piano Fortes taken in
May ifi . &am.
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN away from the fnbfcriber on the fee
onddayof this mil. July, a Mulatto Man,,
named Will Bewzer, about forty years of age,
five feet seven or eight inches high, rather
chunky made ; had oa when he went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, striped purple trowfers
and jacket. It is probable he will change hit
cloathes, as he took a number with him. The
faiil felfow formerly belonged to Mr. Charles
Blake of this place ; and it is expelled ).e has
made t»wards Jones's Neck, in the Delaware
State. —Any person apprehending the ftid feU
low, and securing him so that I can get him a
gain, fliall receive the above reward if
out of the county, md Twenty' Dollars if in
the county, and ail reasonable charges if bro't
home.
JESSE REED,
Quecs Aan'i Couaty, Maryland.
Jul? 3- wit