of tjbe WiXitm and PhiladeiphiaDaily Advertiser.
NUMFF.R j
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
Frir DRY. GOODS.
C Fcnenoop—Edward Fox, No. $6,
~ , ) south Front-street,
" "y~~\ Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
(_ South Froat-ftrcet.
("Forenoon —John Connelly, Old City
_. .. J Auction, No. 73 foiiA Front-flreet.
~ U 'J' n y\ Aftsrnoon —Willijim Shannon, No.
C 183 High-street.
i>- 1 n f Afternoon —Peter BenfoA, No. 74
r „ mh
j,.. C Forenoon—Edward Fox.
1 urj ay j| tfrnoon —J o h n Connelly.
. . /Porcnoon—Will-am Shannon.
r" ay C Afternoon—John Connelly. I
Saturday Afternoon—.Peter Benfon.
For Freight or Charter,
<;?4k t «E GOOD BRIG
S u K E Y,
Isaac Vredenburg, Maftet';
NOW lying at C'.ifl'ord's wharf, and in compleat
nrdrr to rtctive a cargo. For terms picafe to ap
ply the C'-pt»in en board, or
'Jihn Slyrin,
No. Br, Arch-ftrect.
IV HO If AS FOR SALE,
■2OOO wt.of doiiblerefinedSaltpetj-e
of F F Gun Powder %
3cfD barrels of Herrings
5c bufheh of Timothy Seed
cafe j of Claret, firlfc quality
And a qaantity of Sherry Wine.
pt r 19. dtf
Savanna sugars.
EOR SALE,
310 D boxes and calks prime white Havan
na SUGARS,
On board the ship Hamburgh Packet, Silas
Swain, Master, now lying at Marcus Hook.
For terms, apply to Capt. Swain, on board, to
Capt- Samuei. Smith, in Front, near Wal
nut street, or to
Philip Nicklin, & Co.
r"~T~v. Who offer the said Ship
Hamburgh Packet
SALE o> CHARTER.
She is 320 t,ons register, coppered to the bends,
fails remarkably f ift, and ran be ready to re
ceive a cargo in a few days.
Sept. 21. - daw
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing from on board the
Brig William Williams, Master,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale by
■Jehu Ho/lingf'worth & Co.
Wilmingtoti, Sept.n. * dtf
N* B. The above Brig,
wppjJlKjh. and the brig GAYOSO, are
"■ -.SW ■■ ,|f o f or Sile or Charter, and
now ready to receive a cargo
on it Wilmington. App.y .m il""e.
For Savannah,
The fall failing ship,
SWIFT PACKET -
Patrick Gribbin, Master,
■ Now lying opposite th: mouth
of Frankford Creek, has handforae actomtnoda
tious for paiTrngers, and will fail on or about
the Ift nf Orflobtr.
For freight or paffrge apply to the master on
boird, or of the subscribers at Frtnkford, 5 i-»
miles from Philadelphia. '
Nalbro & y. Frazier.
TVankford, Sept. 18. dtift ")•
• _ r>F<jr HAMBURGH,
HPHE Copper Bottomed Ship
I FAVORITE, John
IwSffiV Xhompion, Msfter, now at
Bright'* wharf, and Will be rea
"jv.l<sy to take in on Monday next,
part of her cargo being engaged
and to gn on board. "1 lie Ihip «so well
known, that it is needless to describe her. She
is now in compleat order. For Freight or Pas
sage, please to apply at Mr Jererfiiah Warder's
Compting House, No. u, North Third street,
or to the Mailer on bord.
August jo.
For SALE,
On board the said Sbip, Swedilh Iron, assorted
Hollow awl' Window Glass, Demvjohns, Wrap
ping Paper for Sugar Refiners, Rugs of i & 2
Quality. Please to apply as above.
wficm4w
FORSALE,
BRETAGNES in cases
German Checksin do.
Cambrick
l J l;Utillas
Oinabrips
©old and filrrr Watches
tvindow Glass 10 by 8
Glaf, Tumblers in cases
linseed Qilift &c. See.
George Pennock,
103, High-Sire)t.
_J«ly s. .
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be ict and entered on immediately a large
and elepant house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and one dining room—the largest is 3X feet by,
36 —and two are sb connected by folding doors
as to make but one. Also, five bed rooms, be
sides $ in the garret, well finilhed for servants.
There are (tables ?nd a coach house, with evry
convenience for a family. Enquire at No. 29,
in North Seventh street, or at No. aiß, Arch
Street.
Aug. 15. aaw3w.
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufactured as usual,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Philadelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
J>ondon Porter
Taunton and Bui ton Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
er by the pipe, quarter-caflc or gallon—suitable
for exportation or home consumption
For Sale by
John Hauuorth.
No. 9H i'outh Front street,]
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 12, 1797.
| To be Sold at Public Vendue,
| |(lf not before disposed of at private sale)
I f «Fticiay, the firft of December next, ar fix
o*clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Cof
fee House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine
Hundred and Thirty Nine Hnudrrd of LAND,
now or late in the Ceun-y of Waftvngtofc, and Com
j movwealth of P\nnfylvania, pnd » b th£ waters of
Ftcfh and Wheel ip<* Creeks and Tr-o "Mile Run.—
Tiicfe Linda are fertile and well timbered, and were
"patented early in 17 except 3700. as or therea
bouts, which '// ere patented in 1792. One iourth
of the purchase money to be paid at the-time of sale,
tor the a credit of one, two and three months,
will he given, on interest and gootr-fecurity.
O&Dber G* 3^wtS
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before dtfpofed of at private sale)
ON Friday, the Hrit day of December, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' C-jffec
House, in Philadelphia, Twenty Six Thousand Se
v3n Hund'ed and Eighty acres of LAND, in the
State ot New-York, between the northern bounds
of Pennsylvania and the Su'quebanrta, now, or late,
in the townftiios of Hamdeu and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery One foarih of the purchase
money is 10 or paid at the time of Cue ; for the ic
fidue a credit of one, two, and three months will
given, on interest and good security.
O&o&e 6. 3-»wtS
; Uir"STAGET
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, rytry Tut/Jay, Thursday, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the irorning; arrives at Ho
ver the firft day, at Sno.\vh%) the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and oa
the morning of the fourth day the paflengcrs fiad
a fafe and comfortable packet to convcj thwu to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
every Tuefdty, Thursday and Saturday,* and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wadncfday and Friday ;jputsup at Snow
Hill the firft night, ,at Dover the 2d night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediftance on this rout., between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, 10 to miles lei's than on any stage route
between those places-
Too much cannot he said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fan: to any
paflenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for ths fame
distance, so good a road in America.
August 11, dim. eotf.
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other to
the Gity—
OF FAMOUS SIZES,
From 6 by 6 to 19 by 14,
By the Tingle Box or Quantity, may be had at the
ftoie of the Subscribers, corner of Arcb and Froat»
street,
James C. & Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, June 9, 1797. wmwftf
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the brig I fit, capt. Rhodes, from
Oporto,
Red Port Wine in pipes, hhds. and quarter c»fcs
4o ewt. Cork, for sale Dy
Philips, Cramond, k Co.
July **• $
" Will be landed,
From on board the ship Ailive, tapt.Bt*iß,£ro»n
HamHuigh,
10 bald white ttuflia clean Hemp
1 casks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth street, No. 34.
Tune aA. $
Young, Hyson Tea.
40 cherts of a superior quality—Alio,
Ico do. of Hylon,
Imported in the (foodropSims, and for f«!r W
the fubferiber, corner of Second and Pine
street.
C. Haight.
Tune 2t . eMs
Cedar Shingles.
THE fubferiber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar
Shingles of a superior quality, for faie at 13
dollars par thousand.
William Ha Howell,
No. 193 North Third-Jlrect.
July if. ' eoiat
Importod in the jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John tylorton, No. 116, South
Front'ftreet,
Hyson
Hyson Skin
loung Hyson (
Imperial J
April 20. eotf
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Amflerdam and Hamburg, 'and for sale by
B. £sf J. Bohlen,
A large ajfortmcnt of Jine French Cambria,
Plarillas Kufliamd Dutch sailcloth
.Bnttanuias Writing, port, and print-
Rouanes ' ing paper
Brown Holland Dutch calf Jk:n«
Checks and flripes Prime madder
Ticklenburgs Shell'd Barley
Oznaburgs Looking glafTes
White fheetingj Hollow glaft ware
Diaper Slates
Brown Tolls Coffee trails
Umbrellas Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and straw knives
Black and whitelaces Toys afiorted in boxes
Bell Holland Gin in pipes
London partieular Madeira Wine
July 24. m&thtf
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy-
Ditto ditto Claret in cafe*
Just received, and for Sale by
Rundle & Leech.
Aug. *». lawtf
MRS. G RAT TAN
INFORMS her friends,and the public in genertl,
that her house, No. 191, M.irksfe-ftreet, will cbn
! tinue open during'the fieknefs.
Board and Lodging in a separate room, tRn
dollars, in a double room, sight dollars.
For the convenience of those gentleman who
have not their iamilics in town, Mrs. CSkatta'n
will receive gentlemen to dine at HALr a dollar
a day. AtiguJ} 19. —Ot
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut Street,
Choice St. Croix-Sugar and Runv
C '.iflie
Madeira a-id Teneriffe Wine
For iia'e by
James Yard,
No. • —, South fourth-ftreet.
_o&*. ' diw
CUBT(JM-HOUSv,
Philadelphia, Sept. lid, 1797.
THF. Mcrcl>fii(t who «t this time prefer hav
ing their vcfTrli and Merehai!{3ire entered and
cleared at Chefler «r Marcuj Hooki, —are here
by notified, That in compliance with their de
sire, and upon a full convi&ion that the measure
will he mutually beneficial to them and to the
United States. The col!e<Slot of the cuflomshas
made arrangements to eftaMifh fur frftue time
branches of the cuflopi-houfe at those places,
wnere every accommodation in his power will
be given to the merchants. diw
TO BE
And immediate pojj'ejjiou givtsa,
A Convenient well finiQieit Brick Tenement,
with a cook house and other out houfe»,fitu
ated in a pleasant part of ths borough of Wilming
ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
lias forty feet front on Weft-dVeet, lud eitenda
through the square to Paltur -street, on which is
creeled a stable aod carriage honfe.
. ALLEN M'LANE.
. Wilmington, 10 .
Lately Published,
Ui «ie vol. 8 vo [price one dollar in boards) fold
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
Chefnut ftrr-cts,
A Collection of Papers on the fubjefl of
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the Unit«d
States for a few years p*(f.
Compiled by MO AH H r )/BSTER, jun.
Coutaining letters from Doctors Seaman, Smith,
Buel, l'aylor, Ratnfay, Monfor., Reynold*, Mitch
ell,on contagion, &c. See.
Sept. t: U
City Commijftouers OJfiee,
August 29, 1797.
IN purfuancc ofan Ori'inincc of the SeleA and
Common Councils, paJTcd the 2»d day of May last.
Propoful in writing will be receiveihy the City
Conamifliorers for one month from the ift of Sep
tember n«xt, for letting to rent on kafe» for on*
year to commence the fir# c'aj of January next, the
following public property of the city—
The wharf and landing on Vine Street,
Also on Saffnfra.',
Mulberry, y
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Ifcraw Sridge, with
th« Scale and filh HouAs, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous therato, (except so much
thereof as (hall be occupied by any buildings erefl
ed for the use of the Collector of the Tolls, or b«
neceftary for the toll-gates.)
Aug. ;,tawim.
L O S IV
ON the Paflyunk Road, between the Blue Baß
and the city, a Fowling Piece, with a brass
barrel and filvfr fight; on the plate of the bytt ate
the letters " Jamaica, Q_ 99" —and on the barrel
near the lock '• London" snd the Tower (lamp.
Whoever will return the aid pieceto jhb* Beutard,
atthefign of (}>e Blue Ball on the Patfyyjnk Road,
or the office of thisOazette, Ihall receive k reward
of Four French Crowns,
Kept. i». *3t
DUTY ON CARRIAGES. ,
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an a# of Congrefs«f the
United States of America, pafled at Phila
delphia, the 18th day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ties on Carriages, for the conveyance ot' perfoos,
which shall be kept by or for any person, for his
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the I
conveyncc of passengers, the fevwal dtttio and
ratis following, to wit :
For and upon every Coach, 15 dole. „
Upon every Chariot, iz dols,
upep every Pod Chariot, 11 dols.
upon every Post Chaifc, ia dcrK.
upon every Pi|ieton,with or without top,
9 do's.
upon every Coachee, 9 dok.
upon other Carriages, having panneHvork
above, with blinds, gluffes or curtains,
9 dols.
upon four wheeled■Csrriiges, having fra
med polls and tpps with fttel fpringc, 6
dols.
apon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
eiyir iron fpringsor jacks, 3 dols.
upon Currifles with tope, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel topcarriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or
iron springs, 3 doU.
For and upon all other twe wheel carriages, 1 doW.
upon every fonr wheeled cil-riage, having
framed pods and "ops, and reiling up*
on wooden spars, a doU.
The Colledlors of the Revenue for the firil Sur
vey of the Diftrift of Pennsylvania, will attGnd
daily, nutil the 30th day of September s"X*, for
the putpofe of receivingthe duties on Carriages, at
Germantown; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efq.
in the County of Montgomery j. and at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ;
of which allperfonspoffeffed of fuci Carriages are
defircd to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled fpirituoes liquors, that licences will be grant
ed to them ; one licence lor carrying on the bnfi
nefs of retailing of Wines, in a Id's quantify, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in l«fs quantities than 10 gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorised te grant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
InTpeitor of the Revenue of the firft fui
vcy of lift DiftriA of Pennsylvania.
Office of hifpcition at "?
C.ermantow, nth Sept. 17J7- i
imported
(n the Ihip America, James Ewing, master, from
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands
White Piatillas
Ticklenbtrgs
Coarfc l.inens
Tapes
>•' FOR SALE BY
George Pennock.
Avgnft 14. 3»'.v
To be Let, at a moderate Rent,
J 'HE principal part of a HOUS'R, within a
1 fliort didunce of the* Cv&bc-h' use, which'h;i»
been occupied for the last four months,"consisting
of a good <liarinjr room q.nd parlour-, two ted roiuns
and a rpum, two gr.ueta, kitclieu, w|ood
vault and cellar,ill in excellent oroer, fit for the
immediate receptian of t fitiall family. Kcne need
apyly but thole who are refpedahle and regular.—*
Enquire at the office of this Gazette:
October 9. dtf
' Mr. L AI L S ON,
WITH an intefttion to render fcrvice, ar.d
ceiye those Performers, who durivsg h's absence Mr,
Jaymond han thought proper to engage, thinks ir
would be wrong in him not to inform those thac
are engaged 1 , that it is withou* his approbation, and
that he will not be in any way anfwersble for Mr.
Jaymond's engagement*.
PHILIPPE LAILSON.
[ Alexandria, Stpt. 15, 1797* 6t.
THE MAYUR'S~OFFICE '
IS KEVT, rilß Tilt; PR AT THE
CITV mall.
Sept J.
The Philadelphia, Atjion, and 7 uckerton
MAIL STAGE.
rHE proprietors beg leave to inform tlje f villic, tl~t I
tbey have ejlabltjbed a Stage between Philadelphia,
Aijion, Batjlo, Hampton, Speedwell, and Martha r
nace, IVad ing River J* ng mill, and the tvwn jj Tink
er ton, in New-yerfeyi to a week, and are provi
ded with good borjes, a comfort ible carriage, and a care
ful driver, for the conveyance of the mc.il, f>affengers, and
goods. The tviil /fart cv-ry Tbuifiiy, at IO
o"Cißck, A. M. from Alr. 'Daniel Cooper s Fcrty, and
lodge Hat night ut Jotl BotJtm y s\ at
on on Friday, at 6 9 cloch, P. ,As. arrive at E
vans*s, inleeper, in Tuckerton, dijlad from the city 54
miles, (front tie Atlantic 6, andfrom ih; Fttfl Gtoujina
Plains 7 miles) ii bere are gotd accommodation* for tie
-1 Tellers, and tubere are commodious aid fafe fiajftige Loati
\ Provided to convey paJTehgers to Capt. William War
ringUn s bstfe, on 'Tucker's Island, adjoinining the At
lantic, iiber* are good aceommoaations, and a convenient
place to kathe ; the sportsman who ivijbes to regale bimfelf
isitb fotL'ling and ffbing, may at this plate be ligbly 'gra
tified, there being at almcf every feafin of the year fowl
andfjb in abundance.—The Stage on its return, farts
from the aforefaid C, Evans*e in Tuckerton, every Tuef
day, a/ 6 o'clock, A. M. hreikfitjii at John Bodine s, at
IVading River Bridge, lodge that night at Longacoming,
and at I o*clock, P. M. on Weanefddy, arrive at the'
aforefaid Cooper s Ferry. It is prtfumed thai no route of
an equal'diflancj -will be Itfs expenftve f or fwnijb the tra
veller with a greater variety of amufemeni, as he will,
not only have a plea/ant fail to the atl antic from Tucker
tony but have the curiosity of feeing on the road thither a
number of capital furaaccs and forges, and one f itting
mill, incomplete order, and at work ; gentlemen, too, who
are owners, or fa&ors, of any of the afbrefaid iron works,
are folisited to encourage and support this sage (by which
tbey can be so well accommodatedJ the continuance of which
will much depend on their aid. The rates of pajjengers
and baggage are as follows : For a pajfenger from tbe
aforefaid Daniel Caper's Ferry U Tuckerton, including
X 4 lb. of baggage, Two Dollars ; for way pajfengers
per mile, Four Cents—lso lb. of baggage equaltoapaf
fencer. Pojlage letters, newspapers, ilfc. wiU be
agreeably to law.
N. J5. The mail crosses from the Old Ferry.
THOMAS WARDLE & Co*
Tuckerton, Sept. aB. » OtJ. 5. —Zawtf
To be Sold,
Arid immediate poffelfioß giren,
THAT elegant feat, called BLOOMS BURY, the
refillcnce of the late John Cox, Esq. with a
bout 50 acres of Land, situate ®n the Delaware, ex
tending from the naouth ol Affanpickcreek, to Tren
ton ferry. Thp Bianfioti honfc i« a bandfonic wcl!
| conftru<fted brick building, $Q 1 y 40 feet, contain- ,
ing four rcofm on each floor, with excellent cellars,
and a two story brick Jjtchen. Among the cut
huHdings arc a Hone coach honfc and stables, liif
fkient tv contain &x carriages uid ten horfrs, and ,
aft one cow house, upwards of 100 feet length.
There is also a Hone farm house with corn cibs,
wvggon house, &c. &c. The whole of t: e p:<_.vn
fes propped to be Ibid with this feat, from their f:tu
ation ami improvements, are such as to be worthy
1 thcyattefction of any gentleman wilhijag to retire
t tfrom the city. Tbtre are also about 55 acres
joining the above, which wdi be d : vided si» as to,
accommodate the furcha'fers, Aifo, 100 acfes ad
y>inißg the town lots on thecal fide of the street
i:»*>ding from Trenton to I.ambcrton, which will
he fold together or in let*, as miy bell suit the jmr
chafier, and 230■ocrc6 of wooJlaiid, two miles
the above la'njd, which wiH also be divided if re
quired. The term Jof ■payment will he made easy,
aad tfn indiff.ntable title given. F< r further parti
culars enquire of Mrs. Cox,-No. South Fourth
lireet, Philadelphia, John BteV<Jns, Efq Hoboc
ken, Mathias Barton, Esq. of Lancailer, er the
fubferiber at Trenton.
M A SKULL EWING.
Trenton, Sept. 25, 1797.
Sept. 30. dtf.
At the Federal B.laft Furnace,
Ja Carver —far Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
Mil LS.
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THEIR fuperlority cov.fjls in being free from
boles end heney-combcd plates, ivbith are com
mcmlv found in rotlcl'-s ccefi infimd, or clky
moulds. 7b,-ft patent rollers are cajl in iron
moulds, prcvtoujly beated, and will be found to
be more d'"f e < Jolld and durable tban any rollers
heretoforeufed. Anctberximportant advantage
tbey br.i'e over others, is, that the necks require
no turning, but are immedaitely fit for use., ail J
from their accuracy, run <with left friHion, a lit/
require iefs ivgter lo make them perform their
vork. 'lbey may be bad by application to tbe
patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Good
ivin, or qf .MeJJrs. 'Thatcher a ■ d Hay ward
lioflon, Aug. 3 1. Sept. 19. §&)■
This Day is
13Y Mess. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric $ and the
other Bookfeilers, r
Price One Dollar and tweDly-five cents,
Elegant-y printed on Wove pnper y and Hot
prejfed.
By Jtohn fhotppfnti,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of th« Icveral Sttates with each other x an J with
chat of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of each Constitution, and
clalfing together their most ißh pert ant provisions,
under the fcveral heads of admiuiftration ; with
Notes andOblervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South Carotin*,
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States.
Dedicated to th® People of the UnitedStatcs.
N. 5 A few Copies prmt-nd on aa inferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof a <sLoii«r.
Februiu y 6 mwf
i'noMAS Hf,EMAN LFUEFER.
North fifth street, corner of North- alley No. 34,
HAS FOR SALE,
FNT red Djurdeaux Wine in cuf-suud
bojw?, fix years old % \
White Cuivot. Wine in cufcs
ricklechiir^
Russia -Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck
Bag Linen
Heflyins
Diaper and Table Cloth
Empty I-apa
Caramon German Cloth
uflortmentof black coloured Ribbons
Fsne German Laces
About twelve tons RuSja clean Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in small box 2*« for family ufc
| Window Giafjt Aug 29.— ~?.aw
i KIKDAY »VAS PUHiLlhf»K£>, •
And for f.le hyyjHßMsiS at tbe
Stone House, No. 41, south Second street,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED,
Confiding Of a variety of Miscellaneous Pieces for
the inliru&ion and amusement of/YOUNG PER
SONS—SixAV olumes haudfomely printed and bound
up iu two volumes, prifce Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these pieces are
such, that the ooolc Reeds only to be known to be
univerfaUy efleemcd one of the mofl valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the hands of young
purfons.
44 Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea how t<» (hoot.
To pour t'k« freih inOrudlion o'er the mind,
To#breafhe tIV enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The generous purpole in the glowing' breast."
Thomson.
AuguA. 24. mwf4\y
W THISD.aY IS PI BJJSHED,
By "THOMAS DOBSON, at the Stone Houfa,
No. 41, south SecoQ.d flreet.
Letters and Conversations,
Between ftjveral Young La ii?s'on improving and in
tereilmg fubjedls. *
Translated from tbe Dutch of Madame de Camlcn
with alteration* and improvement,
, Printed an fine paper, and neatly bound,
Price one duliar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales ©f extraordinary distress, or of dtifperate or
.artful villainy, which tl harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comas forward to foi
licit notice, where, in a variety oHncidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, beoaufs
elegant and natural dignity and importance of ths FansU
ebaraSler is exhibited in an intcrefting point of view,
and prefects examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publisher was so much pleafedwith the pern- -
sal, that he was persuaded he (hould do a plea fir,
service to the community by fending it in'o circu
lation- August 24 —01W4W
To Majlers and Pilots twinging ap VeJJclt
from Foreign Parts to this City.
"VTTHereat sundry infringements have lately been
VV made on the laws of this state for the. pre
venting psflilential or infe&ious diseases, either
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publiih the following ex
tract# from the laws of »»d April, 1794, 7th and
2th fediout.
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June fltli, 17^4.
ExtraS of an a 8 for fattring the eity chid port
of Philadelphia frant the introduction if pefli*
lential and contagious diseases.
See r. 7. And be it ftirthcr enaSed, that svery
raaflcr or captain of any fliip or vessel coming from
fdl (vessels employed .n the coasting trade
■excepted) and bound to any port or plaee within
the j'.irifdiiSion of Pennfylv.nia,(ha!l caul'e his (hip
or vessel to be brought to anchor,or otkerwife flay
ed in tbe dream of the river Delaware, opp«fit» t«
the Health-Office on SiaU-Ifland aforcfaid, and
there to remain until he shall have duly retained »
certificate of bill of heal h frtm the liafident Phy
sician. Andil, previnufly to obtaining fueh cert
ificate or till of health, any inafter or captain Ihili
buffer hit (hip or vessel to approach nearer than tl»
laid Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, at
Khali land, caufeorfuffer to be landed, or brought
ion -shore, at any place or port within this Coni
mtmwealth, or at any other port or place, with the
intent of being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any person or persons, or any goodi. wares or mer
chandize, or, if after ra ving such bill ps healtk
or certificate, he (hall ncgledt or r.'fufe to delivef
the sam" to the Health-Officer, such mailer or cap
tain lb all forfeit acia p'-y, for each and every fuck
offence, thefumof nvE hundred dolla*s.
And the captain or mailer of every flup or vet
fel (ball fend a fafe and commodious boat to bring
the physician 011 board, and shall in like mannc*
ton v y him luck to the Health-Office, after he hat
concluded his official examination ; .And while ha
i< making such examination, or in rase any fubfe.
quent examination by the Health Officer or Con
[ falling Physician. to the direilions oi
thi< aiS, tbe hiailer or captain fliallexpofe or cauls
to becifpofed to thefearch of the Resident Phyli
tian.or of the Health Officer and Conlult'ng Physi
cian (as the safe may be) each and every put of ths
(hip or vessel, and shall prefeat to hi. view eack
and every person t r perfocson board thereof, and
and f.r.dl also true and fatisfa&ory anfwtrs
to all such queftiorte as the Resident Physician, &o.
at v're time of examination shall ask relative to th«
health of any port or place ff»m which the ship or
vessel failed, or has fioce touched at—the Euml e*
of persons onboard when the (hip or vessel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that hav»
fmce been landed or taken on board, and wheat
and whertrefpecSlively—what persons qn board— \
f they have bean dtlring the voyage, or (hall, at
the time of examination, be infected with any pet
tilential or contagious disease—and whatist(te pra
fent state and condition of tha parsons on
with refpeit to their health or diseases. And H
any mailer er captain (hall refufe te>cxpofe as afores
aid, to the search of any of the officers aforcfaid,
nif he shall conceal any Jlck js-tfo*, art» any other hum*-
Icr deceive- the proper officers ajtj rrf.ti/i i:t mtfivers,
uch captain or mailer, for every such offance, (hall
forfeit and pay the sum of avNOtuo co>-
t/V* s.
Sect. 8. And if any person #r persons whatlb
ever (the Resident Physician, &c. excepted) (hall
goon board any vessel, before the inafier thereof
has received a certificate of health in the manner
direited, every person so offending, shall pay tli*
um oi ONE HINDIED DOIIAKS
IT hciag ahfolmelyneceffary th»t the foregoifg
fedlions (hould be punctually cpmplied with, tht
fubferiber, in con pliance with his duty, mull ex
act a rigorous obf-rvance of the fame, or Slfe b«
umlat nticSty of putting the laws in force.
%'n. Health Officer tf ije
! l\n t *t riiUa/hplia.
July 14'. d-3w
14'
[VcivjfrK XIIIX
1,
A meetjrig of the Sljled and Common Coun
cil?, is requested 03 L'nday next, at io o'clock,
in iTTe forenoon, at the Sute-Hotife in the Cits
oi Philadelphia, in order to receive the returns
ofthe Fleotinr, piirfuant to the nth fe<fiion of
the of A (Tumi) ly, of March nth, 1759.
WIXIAM H. TOD,
Ck-ik of the Select Council.
EDWARD, J. COALE, „
Cierk of the CoitntioiiCouncil.
The n air.es of the members ele<Sb 4re as fol
low —to wit:
Belefi Cpuncih
Godfrey Francis Gurnty .J
Henry Pritt James Head
Cohmon XlouncV.
Herbert Michael Keppele
Matthias Sadler , James S. Cox
Ja«4»es Vodd Joseph Hopkir\fon
li-ri DrlnkVr, jf, Thomas Greevr*
Gideon H. Wells Kearny Whauton
\V. Morris Conrad Gerhard
Thomas P. Cope George Fox
Oecr«;c Permock Daniel Smith
I'homas Aiibpne Joseph Magoffin,
Tbftmus Parker Tohn Rugan
Qi\. 11.
£jT The Printers of the City are requeued to
publish the abnve in thiir several Gazette*.
TEN E R IFF£~WW:r "
LANDING at Walnut-ftr.eet wharf, TENE
feIFFE WiNtS, of excellent quality, in pipes and
half pipe-, for sale l»y JAMES YARt).
OSi. 10 t-nSt
W O T ICE.
ALL person- indebted 10 the eflate of Jo -N
Striker, late of Tinnecum Township,
Buck's Co'mty, are requefW to j?ay off their
, rtfpeflive debt* ; and those having any de
mands against laid eflate, are deflred to bring in
their accounts, to
JOSJiPI! CHAMBERLAIN, isf \ Execu-
M/iLLET PRBVALT, 5 tors.
Sepf, 18. 51 iaw4w
At a Meeting of the Board of
Property, June 6, 1707,
Preft :H Johr >i'all, .Seo'ry.
rrMnris Johpfton, HiO. £• of land office
Pan. Bnv?htad, S. C-J
Nicholas " -ttinjrir,
r. » uj >
Ssirid Cunningham j
In this cafe th'' proov of ferv'ee of notice be
ing insufficient, ftisfwdered that notice be giv
en inone'of the Phihd.-lphi* anrt Yor'k newfpa
pcrs weekly, f 11* at. 1 e"lt eipht weeks to the
or TfTii;ne.»- of Saanuel Cunnin(>ham i de
ceaied, to ntttrnd the board 011 the firft .Monday
in November next, to The v cause why a patent
f- ußnst ifi'ie to 'liieljftliU Bettinger for the
land in queflion.
(A true Copy.)
JOHN HALL,
■S - ' Secretary of the Land Office.
Aug. IJ. *H»'Bw.
Peale's Museum.
This valuable rerofitory of the works of Ma
ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enl.irge the underftandirg, i«opened daily, at
nfua'. It Hands in an airy and healthy Puliation,
jand free from the epidemic that at present afflict
the city \ it may, therefore, be frequented with
the created lafety. »
As an Airuf-ment, the ftndy of Nature is the
most rational and plnaling : as a Science, the mod
fuklime and indruclive. It elevates the mind and
expands the heart. They
" IVhtm Nature'l ■worh can itarm,viitb Cod bimjttf
" KM onverfe."
Many inter .'fling addliory have lately been
made to th'n Museum : and the feathered tribe,
containing a variety of the most rare and beautiful
fubjefis, is now very advantageously arrangsd
Waxen Figures, of Men large as life (some of them
caCs from nature) are here dre (fed in their proper
habit«, and placed in attitudes characteristic
refpeflive nations Here may he fatn the Nort/-
American Savage,and the Savage of South-Ameri
ca a laboring Chinese, and the Chinese Genflc
man the foo'y an 1 the Kumtfchadali—-
with some Jfaures of the South Sea ICandi. Th*
immense variety and interrfting diversity which
this Museum offers to th view, may befccnbut
cannc !.e described with full e/T«ft.
#'j Price onjy l-4th of a dollar.
Seyt- 18 . 'law
The Health-Office
!S removed to the Pity-Hall, and is kept open
■K;lit and day, where p< rfons having bufn fs may
a p[.iy. Wm ALLEN, Hialth-Officer. '
Sept. 4. dtf
"" no r 1 c e.
THE 01" .es of the Department of War arc for
the pr sent rjrjovcd near to the Palls of the Scuyl
ltill, on the Ridge 9mi.
Sepfembor 4.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THA r the C'Qnimiffioners for the Did riA of
Southwark litivi removed their hall to the houf*
formerly occupied Ify 1 Coif, in Christian at
theflornerof F :f> h llreet. Oet. 4.
An UMBRELLA
WA! taken (supposed to have been stolen) on
Sunday evening last, from the houfc occupied by
Mr. Blunt, No. 9, Strawbcrry-ftreet:—!t is a green
fide Umbrella, of the middle size, with a ted mo
rocco top and hooked ivory JieaJ.—Conceiving it
to have been taken by some pilfering knave, who.
actuated by pscuniary motives, may endeavor to
vend the fame, any person or persons to whom the
Jaid Umbrella may be offered, are defied to flop it;
and it is hoped, will apprehend ,and conriA the
thief to justice. The peculiarity of the Umbrella
will, evidently, fuhjeit the poffeflor to dcteaion ;
therefore, whoever apprehends the fame and deliv
ers it at Mr. Blunt's, ii*m whence it was taken,
or at Mr. Fenno's office, fliall be handsomely re
""" THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGN EES OF JAMES GREENLEAr, '
HER'EBY give notice, that they have disposed
of the property assigned to them for the fccuring
the payment of the notes acceptances, ind en
tloi feuieilts given by Edward Fox, for the use
of the ftiid James Greenleaf; and theJiolders of
such notes, acceptances, and endorsements, are
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will f»tfle
with them for the amount of their refpeflive
claims, both principal and interest, at
any time before the acth day of Oilober next ;
after which day, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of alCgn
rocnt.
Ap'olie*tiofls to be made at fouth-ealt eornef
of Dock and Second streets (the Dock-street
fid<), between the kdari of eleven and one o'
,«lock every day, Sunday* excepted.
Henry Pratt,
7ho. W. -Francit,
John Miller, Jun.
John AJhley,
Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia. A»guA 18, 179?- ,
jlft laying Duties on Sian;J>cd Vellum,
Parchment and Paper.
A FF.W copies of the above adt may be had at
the Office of the Gazette of the Uaited States, No
»J9, Chcfmis-flreer. July I 9. 1
XfcrCSajttte.
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENINO, OtTOBfR 12.
Ijor the XJazette of the United Stages.
/ To \
Dear Sir,
You- have very candidly acknowledged in
I Mr. Fenno's paper of the 9th inft. that
" you cannot boast of much medical read
ing, but it has f* chanced that the works
of the pld writer Diemerbro.eck, have com
posed a part, and 1 well remember the ge
neral tenor of his evidence tp be pointedly
against bleeding, not being in poflefiion of
his works, I am incapable of giving his own
words." I hope Sir, you will pardon the
attempt to brighten your memory, by ex
tracting a few lines, to prove that Diemer
broeck. was not " pointedly agaiujl blood-let
ting.'" in malignant fevers ; on the contra-
I ry, he even !>ltd, when symptoms of pu
! trefcency were actually present.
i Dr. Diemei*broeck having described the
I weather ofj the year 1635, and-the situation
of the army, in which the malignant fever
made its appearance, proceeds (with an ac
| Curate account of the iymptoms) to the me-
J thod of cure, which for the fake of perfpi
caity, my dear Piracelfus, you (hall have in
his oiun -words. * ,
j "In curatione hujus febris primarium et
, maximum fubfidium adferehatur fanguinis
| milTione, ter quaterve, imo in nonnullis
. fcxifes i'eptiefve repetita : vide etiam Gallos
i quibus a fuis medicis quatuor dierum fpatio
fanguis duodecis e brachi.'fc satis magna quan
[ titate etradl fuerit cum fummo frußu : max
imum eniin levamen a venefeftione fen
tiehant xgri, quod brevi tempore adeo no.
turn evafrt, omnibus, ut phirimi zegri, eti
am fine medtrnrwm conftlio, Übi ipfi3 aliquo
ties venam fecare curarent, atque ita multi a
morbo liberarentun." Obs. Diemerb. xxiv.
Fol. 14.
• " inftituebamus, See.
si virefj permittcrent, poftridie reptabamus,
extrahent.es quaque vice a semi libra usque
ad lilrum fanguinis."—Fol. 25.
Hist. xxv. sol. 35. —Humannus Thomas,
piftor, predion febre maligna correptus suit
5 Septembris, ■&c. pulfus erat, ereber, nee
pafum inaequalis; fitis ucoque maxima, cum
lingux magna ariditate, &c. 6 Sep. terfi
pore e vena m«dian* dextrx bra
chii fanguinis libram vtnifeftione extraximus,
cum fummo levamine. " Sanguis erat val
de cormptus.—Bth Sep. febre in eodem
ftatu permanente, fanguinis unc : e finiftro.
brachio extraximus, qui corruptus erat ut
prior. 11 Sep. rurfus fanguinis uncias
feptem a dcxtro brachio, etc—a qua ve
nrefe&ione febris multum minuebatur."
Several other cases might be quoted from
this excellenf author, to prove the beneficial
effefts of blood-letting in the cure of fevers,
but fir, I forbear trefpalfingon your patience,
truftiiig, that you poflefs a mind open to con
viction, and therefore, ere this, mult be fa
tisfied that your memory led you into an
error. I am fir, yours, &c.
a friend to truth..
,M "' _____ .
For the Gazette of the United States.
Philadelphia, OSober sth, 1797.
Mr. B. WYNKOOP.
(Conthided from ytfierdafs Gazette.
But without having recourse to conelu
fions drawn from the nature and phenomena
of the difcnfe, from former observations,
and the uniform experience of ages, several
circumstances occurred, previous to and at
the time that the disease firll made its ap
pearance in Philadelphia, which convince
m» that it derived its origin from foreign
contagion, and not from the effluvia of da
maged coffee.
A malignant and contagious fever had
been introduced info Grenada, and from
thence communicated to several other Weft
India islands, as has already been related,
previous to its appearance in Philadelphia.
Between these and Philadelphia there had
been frequent intercourse.
At the very time that the Amelia was
discharging her cargo, the fans-culottes
privateer from Nantes arrived with a prize
(hip called the Flora of Glasgow. The
privateer had touched at Martinique, ac
cording to the report of Dr. Keaton, ftir
geon of the Citizen Genet, and took in se
veral fre(h hands. Upon her arrival at
Philadelphia, her prize, on the 28th of
July, came along fide of the Amelia, and
the ereyr, which upon landing received their
prize-money, dispersed themfejves into dif
ferent lodging houses, among their country
men who had taken refuge in Philadelphia.
Two took lodgings at Richard Dennie's
nearly, opposite the wharf. The firft cafe
that occurred was in Dennie's house. From
this single spark, which made its appear
ance on the 2d or 3d of Augurt, a blaze
was kindled, which in the course of three
months destroyed 4048 lives yrithin the
city and suburbs ; besides a number in the
country who received the infection in the
city ; particulars of' which have been de
tailed by Mr. M. Carey in a pamphlet.
This lodging house lay in a direftion un
favorable for any effluvia to be conveyed to
it by the wind which prevailed at that time,
as maybe fcen'in my review of Dr. Ru(h's
opinion published in 1794.
That the disease was imported into New
Haven in 1794 ; into New York in 179J ;
and into this city the present year, I have
already (hevrn in my firft and second letters
to you. I (hall now close the fubjeft of
our iiiicullion with observing, that those
physicians who aicribe the origin of that
fever, which has occasioned such deplora
ble mortality in several of our commercial
cities, as wclf as in the Weft Indies, fij»ce
the year 1793, to the exhalation of putrid
vegetable fuhftatices, betray the most un
pardonable remiflnefs in their researches in
to the nature and h'ftory of disease?, or
wilfully (hut their eyes against evidence that
woul<J neceflarily enforce Conviction in every
mind not adluatcd by some malignant mo
rive. Nctwit'nftanding oilr difference in
sentiment, I remain, with fiucere wishes
for your health and welfare,
Your most obedient servant,
WM. CURRIE.
For tie Gazette of the United sTales.
MR. BENJAMIN WYNKOOP.
0 Sober 10th, 1797.
SIR,
IN the lafl letter I addrefTed to you, I
omitted mentioning the account given by
Dr. Schotte, of the origin of a contagious
yelloiu fever at Senegal iu the year 1778.
" On the 4th of Aiiguffi (fays Dr.
Schotte) in the year IjfH, a contagious
fever, diftinguilhed by yellowness of the
j furface of the body and black voraitting,
; made its appearance in a hospital at Senegal
j in Africa, at a time when the rains were hea
| vy and the iflartd was overflowed with water,
• the contagion of which was brought from
! Goree, a garrison belonging to the French,
iby some black mefTengers. The contagion
of this fever was so a&ive, and the disease
j so mortal, that of- 92 white people who
| were on theifland, only 33 were alive when
! the French invefled'h in Jafluary 1779, and
!8 of these were hardly able to walk. Two
' of them were afterwards drowned in crossing
the bar of Senegal—and three died on their
pafTage to France."—ln this fever the eyes
were red and shining at the beginning—but
became yellowjn the courfs of the disease
when it proved mortal &c.
If the fails and arguments which have
been offered in the course of our oorrefpon
dence, are not fufficient to convince every
impartial enquirer that the malignant fever,
which has occasioned such deplorable mor
tality in different places since the year 1793,
did not originate from the effluvia of vegeta
hlepuirefaftion ; but from'febrile contagi
on, ge»erattd originally in,the confined and
impure air of ships,- and imported from the
Weft-Indies, additional arguments, in
proof of this, mas be drawn from the disease
having .tilways made its firft appearance in
the seaport towns, and in families that re
side or tranfail business near to the wharfs
frequented by seamen ; from its having been
confised, for fotne time, to the neighborhood
where it firft appeared ; from its having been
afterwards propagated by contagion, and no
other way, as evident from all those escaping
who secluded themselves from all intercourse
with the deceased ; as was repiarkably the
cafe with 200 prisoners confined in the jail
' n ! 793» the pensioners in the alas house,
and thd patients in the hospital: and from
its not ceafinjg to spread, after heavy rains,
while the atmosphere continues warm, which
is invariably the cafe with bilious fevers oc
casioned by putrid vegetable effluvia.
Physicians, as well as philosophers, are
too apt to ascribe any extraordinary effedl to
a coincidence or accidental occurrence of
circumstances totally independent and un
connected with each other, instead of tracing
it to its genuine and neceflary fourcc. Thus
in 1793, btcßufc a quantity of damaged
coffee happened to lay in a dock near the
neighborhood where the disease firft appear
ed, it was ascribed to that circumstance,
though from the nature of the disease, it
could noP possibly have had any more con
nexion with it, than a quantity of millstones
that lay in the fame neighborhood. To fa
vor this opinion, the season was called a
tropical one, though dry and in every other
refpedl one of the most healthy that we had
had for several years. In 1795, when the
season was cool and wet, some of the very
learned physicians of New-York ascribed it
to the mud of the docks, and, in the face
of glaring fadls, denied that it was contagi
ous, though it was proved by unqueftiotiable
fails that it was introduced from Port-au-
Prince by the brig Zephyr.*—And the pre
sent season, because the streets and wharfs
were remarkably clean at the time the disease
appeared iu this city, and the atmosphere
has been frequently refrefhed with heavy
rains, which cleared the air of all impurities
and rendered it temperate and wholesome,
and no other coincidenee could be difcowr
ed, it is ascribed to the bilge water of a sin
gle merchant-ship.
To conclude, if our climate has become
so unwholesome and impure as to convert
the effluvia of a few putrid vegetable into a
peflileatial and contagious nature, we ought
to desert our devoted cities, and fcek an
asylum in a climate where we might be se
cure from such a deplorable calamity ; for
in this we never could be fafe, so long as a
vegetable is fuffered to rot in our flreets, or
a veflel with bilge water is permitted to en
ter our ports. But as there art no fadls
but imaginary ones in support of a do£lrine
so injurious to the reputation of our climate,
and consequently to the interest of our com
merce, I hope you will no longer perfifl in
your endeavors to give currency, to so pal
pable as well as injurious an error.
I am, with all due refpedl,
Your obedient servant,
WILLIAM CURRIE. <
* See-letter-fHJin.the NeivOforlc board of health,
publifhcd in Mr. Brown's paper of the 24th of Sep
ter, 179?.
The following Anecdote is- translated from
the French Paper, called Europe Poli
tique :
" An emigrant came to get hi 3 name era
sed from the fatal fift. After paying the
brokers he had but a small sum remaining.
He resigns himfelf to the misfortune, and
purchases in the neighbourhood of his form
er estate a cottage and a garden, which he
cultivates; he has the pleasure, at least, of
breathing his native air, and of walking
der those bowers which had been the theatre
of the sports of his infant years. The pof
ftfTor of his estate was not> at ghome. One
day he received a letter from him, and in
viteshim to do him tjje honor of dining with
him. The firft emotion which ke felt, was
that of indignation ; curiosity succeeded.
The emigrant communicated his embarrafl"-
| merit to one of his neighbours, who encon
j rages him, from the account li e give's of the
j possessor, to meet him on the day appointed.
He resolves to do it, and upon his arrival
is received with politeness ; he maiWfefts his
aftonifliment, wishes to enter into in expla
nation, and receives for answer, " Sir, I ne
ver speak of business before dinner—it is u
pom the table ; your place.'' The
emigrant lifted his fcrvice and found three
keys under it. "It is your place Sir," said
he to the pofTefTor ; " the keys are a proof
of it." '« No these keys are for you ; after
. dinner I shall explain the enigma."
I " The time of dinner" appeared th 'be te
; dious to the emigrant ; at lafl they pafl'ed
: into an apartment joining the dining room,
: when the poJTeflbr fays to the*emigrant, ope
, of these keys is that_of your fecrelaire.—
| You will find in it all that you left ; your
I money, jewels and papers. Nothing ha's
been touched. Another is that of yoty
chest, where youv plate and linen are equal
ly Entire. The third is that of your cellar;
then? has been nothing taken out of it but
the wine which we have just been drinking ;
they all belong to you as welf as the estate
of which I have taken poffcflioiV, an'd here
jis the aft of retrocession." " But, Sir, I
must be as delicate as yota,and reimburse you
what you have paid for it." " No, I _have
enjoyed for three years the revenue of your
property, and if we were to calculate exaft
j lv, the balance would be found to be on my
' fide." We leave the reader to make his own
j reflexions up6n this circumstance. The
fa£l happened in Normandy.
From the Farmer's Weekly Museum.
HE is a Genius.
Almost every parent will fay of his son,
j"He is a genius." -Why ? Because, from
a very natural- and innocent prejudice, he
believes he is an extraordinary boy. If ge
nius met with fufficient encouragement, and
your son happened to be one of these rare
birds, it might be well to afiiil him him in
his flights. It he is not, never lead him
into a fatal crrror. I seldom spend an even
ing at my neighbour Meanwells', but he
employs one half his time in praising the
uncommon talents of darling Sammy. He
is called upon to speak a number of decla
mations, he has learned at school : his'ora
tory hasjuft as much merit as his parrot's.
His writing and ciphering books are shown,-
as prodigies of improvement ; they prove
that he has had an attentive matter, and is a
very careless. scholar. The foud father be
lieves him to be a natural poet : true he is
fond of reading ballads, has taught to
repeat a number of hymns by heart, and
like most children, is fond of the tinkling'
of rhyme. He has proceeded so far as to
compose a few couplets, that w6u]d be a
fufficient antidote to the poetic mania.—
His little tricks are related as the marks of
sagacity, or flights of genius. lam tired
of hearings them. He is is neither more nor
less than other boys, and his father is like
many other men. 'Tis a pity a lad (hould
be made a fool because he happens to be
thought a genius. How often is a lad sent
to college, because he is unfortunately mis
taken for as uncommon youth ?—A father,
who has not spare dollars enough to bring
up his son at college, would do well never
to force him from the beaten tradl of " hon
ed industry it ha| peace and plenty on
the right hand and on the left. A good
common education' the habit of indus
try are worth more to a-young man, than
the dear bought and ill merited A. M.
Many miy flutter on the artificial wings of
genius; but few can soar above their'fel
loiy creatures. A real genius is a very rare
thing ; not to be £een in every family, ex
cept by the eye of dotage or ignorance. If
a boy, from the produftion of his leisure
hours, that his mate# devote to play, can
produce a masterly specimen of mechanical
genius, encourage his exertions, and let him
follow the bent of his mind. If he discover
an early propensity to study, will be induf
trions in the field,.and forfeit the pad times
of youth, for the entertainment of his books,
becomes master of his Pike, and a proficfent
in philosophy and history, let him drink hi' 3
fill at the Pierian spring—he nvillbe a scho
lar. But if he is diflingnifhed for nothing
but his flights of fancy, love of poetry, nov
els, and plays ; tie him to the tail of the
plough, rather than fend him to college.
Fancy without judgment is a fine (hip with
out a rudder ; it had better he at anchor in
a fafe harbour, than be let adrift on the
ocean. A genius, without application and
economy, is a mere ignus fatuus. ; while it
promises to guide the bewildered objeft to
the temple of fame, it leads to the vale of
obh'vion.
<
BOSTON, Oftober 6-
Tranjlntcd for the CHRONICLE,
From a .French Paper.
INTERESTING NEIVSfrom CADIZ.
AddrefTed to Citoyen Lanuffeatßourdeaux,
July XI, 1 797-
" The enemy has not incommoded us, since
our lafl of the 7th. Yesterday in the morn
ing, a vefTel, 3 bilindero, und 3 obvtfiers (j
veflels in all) —approached with an intenti
on to batter the place, but the valour of
our firmed vessels was such as not to foffer
their approach, and the enemy retired with
out doing any mifchief.
" You cannot my friend, how
much we have laboured here this week and
the last. The forces of the light squadron,
such as chaloupes, connoulers, and lbnthons
have been increased to four times their form
-1 er number. The merchants have given four
millions of reaux,. for the urgent expences
of the prefent*moment, and gratuities to
the marines. The crevu of the chalope which
chafed a bombarder have received JO thousand
dollars for their bravery—and that 'which cha
fed a chalope of the enemy and tool it, have re
ceivedfix thousand dollars. The contempt
they hold the Englifli in, has given so much
valour to our marines, that they labor like
lions. Yesterday it was wished to change,
or renew the i'eamen of the whole light fqua
dron, but they all cfeofc to rcrn-ifit 3 d,.\s
longer, nor finding themselves fct'>ued.
" The city has also armed fomt' tartans,
for hot balls ; all is under the direction of
admiral Mazaredo.
" The Engl iff] squadron is verydifcantent
ed—it is in a (late of infurrgftion. The fea
meu are not willing tocome in their chalopes
to attack this place—because of the multi
tudes which they have already loft besides
there is not much profpeft of pillage.
" Commerce is absolutely in Jlagnation the
greater part of the inhabitants have quit the city
Every thing is overturned."
[ The blundering manner in •which the above is
arranged leaves us rather in the darh, 'whe
ther the daU, July 21, is for Cadiz .or
Bourdeaux, if the former, it is the Ittcjl ne-ws
from the. Icleagured city ; and direffly con
tradicts the recently received intelligence, that
Admiral Jervis had left it, July 17, and
was pursued by Ad. Majferado. If this
Chronicle article is correS the Spanish Admi
ral is rather more generous than jifl. 50,000
dollars for chafing a vej[el,and only 6000 for
capturing one !It certainly arofefrom favor
itifm y and, if true, ought to create discon
tents andmurmul-s. The concludingparagraph
exhibits Cadiz, as truly diftrejfed though the
English are held in contempt, j
[ Mercury.
We are informed of an arriv 1 at trie east
ward from Gibraltar, which failed Aug-uil
1 ; and that the Englifn fleet still remained
before Cadiz, at that date.
PORTSMOUTH, (N.K.) O&.
A Mrs. Jeullns, of Leo. lately apprehended in
this town, for palling counterfeit rer dollar. Salem
tank Hits, was on trial be! ire the iuperior court
last week at Rxcter, sou 1 and f-nteiycd
to P<ya fine of three hundred dollars and coftsof
court, which amounted to or.e hundred more •
she is corn it. i 1 ,il to jjao! end is to (land commit
ted until sentence is performed.
n . nurfda* lafl, Hall Jack.
so*, io the f2th -yr-ir of his age, after 4 i-.ort and
pailful iik'fs, ©ccr-wed by a fall from his car
riage tile nrecediti;.; \vc«t; and on Friday hiv re
niaii.»"w».'.«. commit* d to his kindred earth, pre
ceded by the G u<{ !.i*lg< ,cf Mafocs and St.
John s Lo(\i; in ample form, over which he ha I
prefidrd a long time as Grand Master ; with the
Fire Society, pi which he Was a rr.cm:>er, follow
ed by a large train of relatives and friends whole
countenances befpokethe lois of a dear friend and
valuable —He was' celebrat. ,i both
in Eerope an.l An erica f,.r his (kill in' Sm gery, as
well a-, in the' Medira : rt. In the.ob"- -trie and
innofuht.n brant he/of the prufe/Ei ihe was un
rivalled.—His gen us was hrHJi.i t ; his know
ledge profound ; his pradice .-xteafive ; his fuccob
uncommon, and his diligence and,ben volence un
bounded. The blefiing of many ready'to periih
fell on him.—His meri* alone wiif he his bell pa
negyric and will ered the "mo f I durable nionu
meat to his memory.
death of Hall Jackjon, Esq. a distin
guished Phvfician and Grand Matter of the Sooiety
of free and accepted Masons, in
a gentleman who net only (hone eminsnt in his
prufeffion, but also for his philanthropy and pri
vate virtues
Yc Tons of science, and of freedom mourn,
Relentlefsdeaih frora you a gem has torn !
In fable weeds y» poor, your loss deplore :
1 he great Physician, and your friend's no more !
Enshrine his urn, each orphan with your sighs,
\\ hofeaidand bounty, hufli'd y„ur iafant-cries.
'' - from whose eyes, his hand has wip'd the tear
Of kceneft sorrow; drop one o'er his bier.
Genius, und merit, quit your faered dome,
Withflowersandwiflow., dick your fa voritt'stomb. '
His every aflion, Biirits nobl-r prnife,
Than fculptur'a-honcrs or poetic lays.
■ •;ss deeds shall shine on Fame'srefulgent page
Kor emulation to each rising age.
Within his bofc.m, virtu fut'd her throne,
In him each grace, with brilliant lustre Ihone.
The tender parent, and the hufbaqd kisd,
she friend and patriot were in him combin'd.
Prepar'd for Heav'n. his sou lias wing'd in way.
To scenes of glory and eternal day.
_There u:iconceived hlifs, the thoughts employ,
Tlieie fprirgs the fountain of eternal joy.
There flraijis of Seraphs are forever heard,
There deathlcfs virtue, meets a great reward.
From Marfejlles..--
i HE C/\kGO_
Of theSwedifh b;.rque 6uftavus*Adolphus,iYom
Marseilles, co*ifiltingof the following articles,
is difcherging at Mr. Latimer's wharf," and for
I'ale by the fuhfrr iters
BRANDY, well flavored, of 2, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hoglheads
Ditto, in cases,
Frontigriac VVine, in cases of 30 bottles
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in baiketaof6
and 12 bottles
Capers
Olives
.ilmonds
Dry Vercligreafe
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) of »8, 3c and 31 inches
T afleties
Long and Ihort white Kid Gloves for Womea
Silk-Stockings
in imitation of Madrafs
' rtifiei.il Flowers and Garlands
Ostrich Feathers
Kibbons
Perfumery
ccnted hair-Powder ar.d Pomatum
"\lanna in forts
Cream Tartar.
BENfAMIItf MORGAN fc
ROBERT ANDREWS.
September 27. eotf
Just pubjilhed,
Ami to be fold at the B< ok (lores of 11. is> P.
Hire, No! 50, Market-ilreet j J. O'mrod,
No. 41, Chefnut-flreet, and W. Young,
worner of Chcfnut and Second-fireets,
An accurate System of yurve^'ing;
IK WHICH IS CONTAINED,
T. Decimal frpifiions, ih a plain, concise,
and eaiv manner.
2. 'Lh'e extritiitfljt oF,tne square root.
3. Plain trigonometry, 1 ciSlangtilar and ch
lique.
,4. An ekjdi method to ca/l up the coiiients
ef lands..
5.. Field'furveying.
The whole being performed without the use
offcale and compasses, on a table t)f logarithms.
In which is given some are. unt of the Variation
of the needle, and the causes of attraction.
By SAMQEL MOORE.
Atlgufl fc 21W2W
ME D 1 C IN E S.
OF eveyy kind, naccflary for the sick also, Sa
go, Bailey, and Oatmel, for diet drink, will Ve
delivered gratis, during the preffltit contagion, to
who are unable to pay for it r at Hunter's
Laboratory, No. 114, South Second Strftt." From the Neit-Tork Gazct/e, &V. •
—Role d'Equipage ! ! ! —J
Messrs. M'Lean & Lang,
When attempts are daily making, and e-
W very opportunity .eagerly embraced for in
fluejicing and jnving a wrong and dangerous
b'.as to the public mind, on a fubjedt highly
inlcrelting to our country in a national as
well as individual point of view, it behoves
every man not altogether immersed in the
M consideration of his private affars, to devote '
tome moments to what regard* the honor '
of hrs country. On no occasions are patri
otic exertions more loudly called for than
Jwhen the general good is likely to be injur- ,
ed by the secret and imperceptible machi- ,
I nations of a combination of wealthy individ
uals—Actuated by these sentiments, and, ; J
, not engaged diredjjy nor indiredtly, *i navi- ]
f gation, either as insurer or insured, I deter- t
mined to hazard a few observations on the ]
injultice and political danger of holding up l
an idea of the Underwriters .NOT being li- t
able, where vessels were unprovided with a c
I Role d'Equipage. lam very confident eve- r
L ry engine is ei .ployed by certain grasping 0
L and defigm'ng underwriters in this city, re- t
gardlefs of the political consequences, to e
give a falfe impression to the public opiu- 0
ion, as to their liability under certain circum- ti
Itances for American property' insured by j \{
them. When I saw a HiNrinth- 'Com- r
mercial Advertiser' of Saturday lalt to the ! d
insurers to avail themselves of Lord Ken- I d
yon's decision in the cafe of an American ! vv
vessel condemned by him for not having a 01
Role d'Equipage, I must confefs my fur- , p
} prift was not equal to my indignation ; and J b<
t the immediate recolkdtion of the letter a- i {" G
j * bom the Role d'Equipage published in the j a
Minerva a few days ago with such studied ' (h
assiduity, as coming from Nantz to a "res ' a „
j pedtable house in this city," &c. confirmed l ev
me at once in the well grounded opinion I , f Q
had conceived, of the designs and exertions cr ,
of some interested men, to give an improper tif
bia; to the public mind'on this momentous tic
national fubjedt. j , r ;
. I beg to be permitted to put a few quef- W
tiortsto Mr. Webster, who seems not to be tre
v feufible of the dangerous political tendency, I 0 f
particularly at this time, of giving an opin- f er
. ion publicly in favor of the underwriters. J£ v
f Did not public opinion and the laws con
sider an American vessel as fully and com- an(
pletely documented without thij newly dif- a b]
covered pretext called a Role d'Equipage ? thi
. Did not the insurer and insured perfectly
f undefftand each other at the time the ion- j„„
tradtof insurance was made, as to the ri/k to '
run and the premium said rilk was worth ? to
Have not the premiums on almost every oc- f ori
enfion been equal to what t hey would have jftj
been, were we at open war with France ? ry c
. Were not a gfeat many risk/i undetermined Th
V and vedels underwritten before the gre.y: bun
difco*ery made by the diredtory of the necef- exp
fity of a Jlole d'Equipage ? Was the want aco
of the Role d'Equipage thought of at the s on
time the firft arret of the diredtory was issued diff(
lagainft American vessels, and was such an ; mp
instrument mentioned among the reasons of- nat ;
fered when said decree was cnadted ? Was hav,
not the British treaty the only cause affigri- p U }j
ed whtn the arret firft came out ? Did not con |
thediredtory maintain that ground till driven forti
off by the powerfnl arguments of the legif- rew:
lative body of France ? Has not the diredt- c l„d
1 orv lately taken refuge in that miferaßle, tore
llimfyhole calltd a Role d'Equipage, which m ; rr ,
m rauft soon be rendered untenable by the lu- q„,'p
minous arguments of Segur, Paftoret, and ro ] e
, other honest and enlightened men in France ? jj-i
What good end was intended to be produc- the J
ed by this new-fangled pretext ? Did it ever no t ,
enter into the imagination of man til Hat- 01lct .
ly, t® suppose that a simple lift of the names long
s of the crew of a vessel would eftablifli the evi-! was ,
I dence of its being neutral property ?Is it not ; ry c
• revolting to common fenfie and common hon- Wha
eft-y, to hear the fame lips to day jnftifying f f wer
French depredations, which, yesterday, were ca p t:
*>■ ciying out in every quarter of the city, t he <
V French robbers, villains, pirates," and a p a (Tp
long train of opprobrious epithets ? Would at t h (
not decisions in rtur courts of justice against q U j re
the insured eftabli(h the justice of what, by crc d
all but Jacobinic Americans and Frenchmen, e flf
has till lately been declared piracy ? Would etiligl
k not a single decision by any one of our ]yi a r(l
J ■ courts of justice in favor of the underwrit- Segui
trs, eftablifli a principle that would gladly f oun d
be grasped at by the French nation, and p rant
forever preclude any of our injured and al- heade
mod ruined from tho possibility of ar ,tly
ever recovering a single (hilling from France ? conc [ (
With what face could we demand reditu- nl j |
tion for the immense property we have been p U l ou
robbed of, if the robber brings forward our ons ,
own authority to juftify his condudt? teradt!
Ought our government to lay under the im- t i C e fc
putation of ignorance and raftincfs in fend- a ti on
ing forward envoys extraordinary to redress men v
wrongs', which we have never sustained, by right
affording the people who have injured us frivol'
the opinions and decisions of our own citi- driven
zens and tribunals to jultify their criminal t h> iui
condudt ? Have not all the translations of g C5> t
our treaty with France erf 1778, rendered the ab
the words " Role d'Equipage"—a lift of , an y e ,
the crew ? Have not our vessels; at the re- s in g f r
f quest and order of our Executive, been fur- an( j ro
nifhed with a lift of the crew during the cc
whole of the present war in Europe ? Did
not the "diredtory formally annul the treaty ,
of 1778, 011 account ot our late treaty with
Great Britain, previous to its decree refpedt
ing the Role d'Equipage ? What right then O" ru<
had the diredtory, after the eiiadtion of such
a decree, annulling the treaty of 1778, to
issue this arret refpedting the Role d'Equi
page ?Is it not better, both in an humane cam.
us well as.commercial point of view, where apply ic
the scales of justice are equally poised, al
ways to incline in favor of the insured?
How much more imperiously do the present j"
circumstances, where justice is evidently OA
and glaringly on the fide of the insured,
demand a decision against the underwriters ?
In (hort, did not the insurer warrant and willfrt
defend the property of the insured against for fom
piracy, aud do not the French themlelvts Sept,
*
f u " directory pirates ? Let every lioneft,
impartial, humane arid patriotic mind seri
ously cr»nfider all the foregoing important
questions, and I feel a pleasing confidence
,f' ng ' that ever y attempt to mislead
ae- the pubic mind on this intcrefting fubiedt,
tZ T" H*. A
iii-rhlv r° n ' , e contem P'ation the number
f > °, f me f n w , ho W()U 'd be totally ruined, and
I 8 ™. e ' r . fam ' h « reduced to beggars-, by efta
n°Z r'T ? P nnc 'P le of decision against the
insured, is an awful and awakening'refledti
levote ■ on, which ought to alarm and interest every
honor lumane and feel ; ng j
pati i- but our government will obtain an t ftablifli
• . principle of the lawless con
cur- dudt; of the direftory of France, in per
lachi- mitting the condemnation of American pro-
Jivm- { perty oa the unjust pretexts that have lii
a"", therto beep offered, as soon as the legislative
navi- b o dy prevails over the diredtory, which, in
letcr- the nature of things, must soon take place.
le Into what an awkward situation will we not
'ff l 'P be thrown by a single legal decision in favor
ngi'- of the underwriter, on account of the want
lth a of that ridiculous thing cabled a role d'equi
-t'.VC" P a K' ■ Allowing such a document as a lift ,
P tn S of the crew, to L» in any degree effentiai |
'» re- to prove the neutrality of property ; how ,
»' 1(1 easy would it be for a consul or other agent
of either nation, to fabricate that least effen
="m- tial of all documents ? But I deny the ex- <
» b y i lftence of such a clause in the treaty of 1
,om- 1778, as is expressed in the decree of the (
.. j diredtory concerning the necefiity of a role j
1 er) -1 d equipage. What a reflection upon the ]
ican j wisdom of the framers of that treaty up- I
n g a ; on th- sagacity and integrity of even Dr. i
ur - j Franklin himfelf, to admit of clauses in the
a "d | body of the fame inftruroent so incoufiftent,
fr a- I f 0 contradictory to each other ! To.fay in
the ; a part of said treaty that British property
died : shall be sacred in American vessels ; and.in j
rc • another part of the fame inflrument, that
' ncc T even American property (hall be condemned
[> I | for want of a lift of the names of the
ions | creiv 1 1 1 Horrid absurdity ! wretched, pi- j
'P er tiful evaGon ! despicable perversion of jus- 1
ous , tice and candour ! Were our sailors all Eu
i glifnmen, would it not be better for France ?
uel- Would it not be a.most politic clanfe in the !
1 be . treaty in question, to encourage the sailors
cy. ,of England—a rival nation, to quit her
»n- . service to join that of the United State*? 1
livery mqn must immediately decide in the
°"* affirmative. Why than endeavour to impede n ?
and defeat a principle so salutary and favor- r "
able to France, by trumping up this filly „
■ thing called a Role d'Equipage ?
' y _ It would be insulting your underftand
"'gs. my fellow-citizens, to fay any more ,
1 to you on the justice of a fubjedt, so obvious ' '
1 • to the mind of every man not warped by a
>c - fordid attachment tcfelf-intereft— not (lav
-IVC 1 filly bound down by the debasing mercena
? • ry chains of an inordinate thirst for gold
This address was undertaken with the just, '"J
humane, and patriotic wifli of corredting and \
e( " exposing to public odium, an opinion which
"t a concurrence of circumstances gave me rea
| son to suppose was induftrioufiy and artfully
ed disseminated throughout this city, to give
an improper impreflions on immenfc
' national and individual importance. If I
as have succeeded in exciting and diredting '
public attention to the tim«ly and accurate
ot consideration of the fubjtct which hasdrawn
: f n forth the present remarks, I fliall be amply rou i
rewarded. I think it not improper to con- \f
elude with the important obfervation«ofPaf- /"
e > toret, in that part of flit elegant and ad- L J
nairable speech which relates to a role d'e- v ■•>.
J " quipagr, where he fays, "No model of a 1
'd role d'equipage is annexed to the treaty of '
- , 1778; the 25th and 27th articles (which
the Diredtoryjground their decree upon) do
not even speak of it j the word is not even ;" l
once (Wntained in a single sentence of this
; s j long treaty. Never since this conclusion
l " | was it demanded from the Americans; e&-
't |ry one knows their sailors are not classed. lafc '
| What end then does a role d'equipage an
b ; fwer to them? Before his departure, the
e captain merely presents and leaves a lift of a>
> the company he has, and upon this lift a ecl '
a pafTport is delivered tQ_him. See its form .
j at the end of the Treaty; it supposes, it re
quires nothing more." True, just and fa- flr .
1 crcd words! May ye be pronounced with ' ■'
» effect by our three virtuous, patriotic and r
f lyTarfhall and Gerry, assisted by Paftoret,
' Segur, and the Legislative Body, make the j
found of our wrongs ring from one end of J.
' France to the other, until the unjust 'five -Z'
■ headed monftpr' itfelf (hall be forced reludt-
antly to con(efs their criinin- 1 ! and unjust
conduit towards the people of America!
' And finally, may our courts of justice, fcru
puloufiy avoid any dccifions or even opini- . .
| ons, which may in any degree tend to coun- n ' n
teradryour patriotic exertions to obtain jus
tice for the wrongs inflated on—and repar- ous '
ation for your injured eonntry, by a set of an y ,
men who when forced from every ground of travei
right for taking our property on the many
frivolous pretexts, they have by turns tjeen
driven to set up, have at length founded ue
the justice of their condudt on the advanta- P rove
ges, the French colonics had reaped from '7:
the ability to support themselves without
-any expence to France, from the spoils ari- J 0 " 1 "'
sing from the piratical and lawless seizure J. 1 ,
and robbery of the property,of our defence- 1
lcls countrymen. exper
PATRIOTICUS. t „ ers 1
ftrcan
For CHARTER, '
On raoderate terms, to any port in Europe, f n Eu
THE SW£^ ISH SNOW dered
Adolphz, s rave
Captain Rampe. 111
Canics about 2COO barrels of flour. FQr terms
apply 10 thouf;
Peter Blight. contei
, Who intfhds Landings quantity Jamaica Hum this c
and Suo \r, leceived by Ihip Amity, c»ji. Cook, .1 r
Iron Jamaica. ' "'° le
OA 12. dim dcrs u
1 portec
Cj" The lufinefs of the CUSTOM-HOUSE, local <
will from this day be tranfaSed at Chester Those
for some time. —and
Sept. 39. the oc
Xlje (Sajette.
dence -
liflead PHILADELPHIA y
bje6t, THURSDAY EVENING, o'ctoefr 17
cecra- _
imbcr County of Philadelphia.
, and State of ths votes fir A/pml/ytntn.
efta- ■Q g co
[I the H ;
" K 5 *- £ * a 2
- ver y h-= 5
biifl>-| r
con- R, TitterthSry 78*6 448 e/5r 'iSzq
Per- Michael Leib 744 iL [,7
rti. Jf'""TV F ° r r ft 734 47-f'' 553 176'
alive JT 3 ' 1 73? 1%. ,512 1408
atl ye Manuel Eyre 718 157 r I2 ~87
lace" Y'c Linn ? rd • 716
• S k ppe iT a,t 103 374
lhomas Paul 90 -520 C 2 j.71
avor Samuel Wheeler 98 325 r8 4Q i
tvant Frankl. Wharton 72 ' 304 6 382
q !!' The fix firft, composing the democratic
, ticket, are consequently eledled. R. Tit
tifal termary and T. Forest were on both tick-
ets. There were a few scattering votes.
J ent Senator.
*
ex- City of Philide'pbin yoi .gg^
r of Northern Liberties 144 6-g
the i!hwark: 75 • ' , 498
jga
1 °'e Budlefown. j 9 \ 4 %
the liioc!dey,apd Kingfj 16 g
up- Delaware county, 471 ,j 0
Dr. !
the Total, 1986 4
:nt, x<)Z6
T 111 Majority for Israel, 18
:rty
lin Total of burials fir 24 hoyrs, ending yejltr
clay at noon.
led) Grown Person*. Chi!Jr:n
the Chritt Church I - 0
pi-I St. Mary'» Church 3 O '
1 r 1 German Lutheran > »" r I
u '- Porter's Fi ;ld j 0 t
Mi- City Hospitals 7 , 0 t
:e ? 1 Kensington 1 0
the - - 1
ors *3 1 c
Pour from the city aid J'uburht. • t
lc r The number of deaths on the Jlth of October i
:s r 1793, was 119. u
he DIED-i-WitLMM Gould, MathetnaticaJ laftru- .
de n . lent Water, in Front-ftrect, at the corner of Nor
ris's alley. a
3r- . '
U
To James OJdden, Chairman to the Committee f'
superintend the tents, *'
re IVe have the pleasure of transmitting to you
US '^ r " t' u "d re d and fifty tight dollars and twenty /
a tents, being a donation raised at thie pi ice by a
v _ number of citizens now residing here froml
a _ Philadelphia, for the relief of the fufferingpoor. a '
_ We are aft requefled by the Jubfcribers h w
infirm you that the fame is left at your dfretion
, J t0 dijlribute in such way as you may thinh mok
•h a dviftabic. We are, &c. ar
, RICHARD FOOTMAN, / fit
ISAAC JONES. re
Burlington, 08. 9, 1797. .
•' j to
J The following donations were received fir /fe\ P a
ujjfj of the poor rejiding at the carr.bs trerir \ e . a
, Sjhuyliill. • ' \
Q If rem different persons living on thefive milA ta
v round■ —s4 bushels potatoes, 46 heads of cabbage, •'
• & fafbtls of onions, and 96 beats—Collided it,
•_ Nicholas Pickle. "»
From Jamts Crooifhani, jun. too bundles ,an
(f flraw.
1 h rom Benjamin Chew, jun. 14 bushels po
tatoes, and a load of oat flraw.
t From Mr. Loyd, a load of flraw.
J From Mr, Kerwin, 10 bushels potatoes and
t number as cabbages. „ J G '
, From Dr. Logan, a load offlraw, a nuanti
, 0! "J potatoes Jurnips,apples and old clothe*.
j From Thomas Leiper, a waggon load of po
tatces
From Cadwalader Foulke, 10 bushels do. ;
From David Brientnall, 2 Jheep. 8 bushels
■ potatoes, 12 heads cabbage, and 100 haves of
br\ad. _ Ma
From sundry citizens of Harverfird town
fhif, Delaware county,forwarded by col Rieh- cl
ard Willing, a quantity of potatoes, and 5 bar
reli of Rye, Indian and bucl-wheatmesl,
I rom Jacob Downing, 2 barrels of flour.
CafL 3Q
Do r I
n" 5 ReE
Dn IO
John Davis £3' Co 50
From ll illiam Brown, 500 wt. pilot bread.
Published by order of the Board,
JAMES OLDDEN.
A foreigner observed, one day in the be
gining of August last, that the citizens of
Philadelphia were the most afitive, industri
ous, and sagacious in acquiring wealth, 'of
any j people he had ever known, and he had p u b
travelled—but, added he, they are strangely
improvident in grudging such a proportion,
of their riches as would give a permanent
value to their pofleffions ; and in the end. A 1
prove them to be true economists. The ci- g
ty, said he, js now threatened with a second f 0
rifitation of t>i fever which proved such a <■
fcourgein 1793. The real lot's of property to tl
sustained that year, amounted probably to a enc
sum much more than fufficient to defray the E nv <
expense of draining off all the Ihgnated wa- 0 f t h
ters in the neighborhood, and introducing, hono
ft reams from distant fountains that ftiould j o ,irr
perpetually flow thro', and wash all the „i ent
streets and sewers of the city. Situations
in Europe had, by these meaij.s, been ren
dered healthy, fvhich before had proved ®
grave-yards to all who attempted to rdide
in them.
These remarks might be enforced by a xx '"
thousand considerations which result from a m ;(v.
contemplation of the aftual state of things in V pjfe!
this city and neighborhood. I am one of (near
those who believe that the malignant difor- loft,
ders under which we have fuffered, were im- Ar
ported—but, at the fame time, suppose vtns>
local causes have favored their diflemination. ,
Those causes may be removed or ameliorated from
—and until something more to tha
the oecafioa is done, we (hall continue to Bay.
« fufFer, not o„Iy I;, fad, but m opinion ; and " |
to a degree greatly.otcr-proportioned. to the , ~
e,X ?4 n ? a rac^'ca ' remedy would coll. j
Ihe publitv fetety. cjjtgsbt' to be the fu- |
preme law. How many personal, private '
"• aT,d l° c f l are offered to conn- ,
- teratl the prpvifiotK now extant for l;eepitirr
the c.O; clean ! They need not be mention- W
' , the 7 occur to every man—no law does
reach then, j they mult exist, till a flood, or ' u
a "ream, Iliad wash them all away~l refer
to common f ..vers and other receptacles of ™
nllh.
r . Private receptacles of filth and putrefac
tion ought not to exist, if it is possible for F
839 the yigilance of law to remove them. , ,f
385 Stagnant waters may be drained off hy
761 canalling, or other meaas. In the city, in '
40S the hot months, water arretted in the gutters
387 becomes highly offeafivc in a few hours— ,
376 7he remedy for this nui
-532 lance is current thro' the flreets. V. 1 "!
471 ._ If the ip'c of bringing such a stream 1 vr*
491 into the city fhoulU amount to a million of;
382 dollars, it would be money well laid out. 1
Stic It is not supposed that it would cost half the '7*
fit- sum.- It is time that the question was de- '
ick- termined, whether Philadelphia can be vin- 1
dicated from the fnfpicion now entertained, ' rw
that it is, from its local situation, inevitably ,
cRS? eX r n-, t0 a , fVfq ' Uent returu ° f malignant
and pestilential difordcrs. - (
498 } 11/I 1 / bu( " ,nefs '= now brought to a crisis n
44 and if men of property will not come for- r
8 ward) and promote the obje&s contemplated, J *
.8 in a more efficient manner than by lotteries, T
* ® c °ntrafted fubferiptions, hard wrunf .-'f
from their purses, they may repent when r rl
,86 l " e T alue of their eftatcs shall be funic fifty ? "
per ccut. or reduced to nothing ; bert
JB . - 0 a gre
Peace and prosperity do not come by I ♦v Pt
«- chance ; they are the effect of a well order- £
ed ttate <y focictv. , rivei
- n Our country is kppv— peace, plenty »nd
hnppioefs reign through our land—tverv
part of the Union teftifies to the truth of W T
the assertion—Every part of the Union bears k
the most conspicuous marks of a free, pro- ?
tecting and just government—and yrt what
do we fee in the state of Pennsylvania ? Men
brought forward as candidates for the most
icr important stations, whose principal if not p
only merit is, that they are CURSERS of ,1
tte general government, and of the men who r* n
admimfter it. Of that government to which, 1 r
under God, we are indebted blef- •
\tt f,n g of °» r civil, foqial and political ex- PU V
lftence ! < w 1
_ Aall
ty MR. FENNO, '.the I
I observe an account in your paper of the
ms y e ' low fever being generally cured in the 111- '/ '
r. and ot Jamaica,, by mercury and hark, ~
J without bleeding. This may be true, and '
J yet bleeding may be highly ncceffary in the i ?"
jf y tllovv f ever of Philadelphia ; for as warm * ™
and cold climates require different and oppo
site cloathing and aliment, so their diseases F"? 3
require-different and opposite remedies. He r°
only is a physician, who suits his practice ' r ° m '
to climate and season, to the habits of his C °"" t
V patient, and the state of his system. Dif- ?
cases are not cut by chiffels .into one form. C ° U ,
\ A hundred circumstances vary them. To r '
ta " c °f curing a fever which differs more or
•, >' n ftrcngth in every person it attacks, Mp
joy the fame dose of medicine, or the fame j- r
of bleedings, is the height of folly " e
, and quackery. REASON. '
CITY -HOSPITAL REPORT, A
I'rom 1 ith to r2th Oft. in the morning.
r Admitted, since last report, Gore,
John Scott, No 9, Elbow lane.
. Either Rue, tents on commons. "tigat
Discharged, since last report. proeur
JAlexaoder Henry, admitted 21ft ult. rrl
Died since last report : | feß f ett
u 1 r 1 made,
when admitted h . owlon g»<* pre- |
vioustoadmiflton. ! Tli*
• r.lizabeth O'Neal, 7th in ft 5 days. valsare
Maria Franks, 9th. 2 days. session
IZSj s 'i* repor7 1 r '- £b .
Discharged t
Died J ' f 3
r „ r 3 informs
Remain in Hospital. \ ~.°" v alefcentl4l 45 r
c • f 1 j happy <
faixot whom are dangerous. fable of
In'erred fince'laft report.
From city and suburbs 6 K
Hospital r » 2 On £
the Ho
Total y 8 soon as
Stephin Girard. r 0 ;"" 1 ?'
(Signed) Caleb Lownes. , L
John Connillt. °
Published by order of the Board, ' h,m e '^
Wm. MONTGOMERY, terrefre
Chairman protem. 10 l ] lc ' l
r A de!
A letter from a relpeftable American, at 1 ' ie '
Eourdeaux, dated" Atiguft 8, states the the hon
following information. art » ' ate
" 1 hat the minister ofthelnterior had sent tatlves
to the Municipality of Bourdeaux, intelli- The t
gence of the expeftcd arrival of new Citl ' a<
Envoys from America. That, in the event , We a
of their arriving at that port, every possible |} a3 recci
honor was to be /hewn them, and their "ate» th'
journey to Paris, rendered every way conve- come fr '
nient and agreaable." a welcor
pie to t
„ their ftat
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
a:
EOSTON, OJT.-7. t [
Cj The violent storm experienced here, on \f nr it
Wedncfday last, is iuppofed to have done Jtiueh ' r '
miiciiief 011 our coast. We hear, that 6or 7 lcr ! ou
veltels were driven a(hore in Winter harbour,
(near Wood Island, eastward) and some lives the day,
loft. Ihe prrticuUrs we have not as to con
Arrived yefler.iay— Ship Foxwell,„C.ipt. Ste- ment ens
vtns, 56 tfa'jfi from Gibraltar. 1 Sept. 8, spoke f pct j,., .
Capt, Smith, from N. beund to Boitr- . j
dtauy. Kept. 17, spoke Capt. Weft, 4 day-' J u '^P rci (
from Sa!ero,,bound to Frani-e, Wo mtoirotd endcaVou
that there va& a Fre;.eh prjvateer lying in the - since dice
Bay. Sept. ;p fyoke an Ent_hflj ftiip qf war. ed.
|fc £his cay's Mail.
?«;•' NEWVORK/0.W,:
conn- ~« Saturday.the Prdident oftlie IW-
L 'P ; «£ L f a t''" ed / t Kartf " r J City, on his
itioa- J S '
,d,°or ', °' pt ,; *Jn«of th 4 Success,
refer ' fierday from Port-au-Prince, informs,
!es of ' h ;: |" e bn f. Nancy, of Philadelphia,!
eapt. Geddes, whiJh was Hated ti> have been
efac- CUt 01 Ca P e Nichola Mole, by the Brf.
e for ?'"? b °A ts ' thc 23d of September, wa»
lpoke with by him on the 2lsth, all well,
f k° un d Philadelphia, in lat* 24, o7*
tters 1 1] , If a , fa , ft ; at w ° rth remarking, that
• 3 tlle dtfcovcrcd medicine, Jalap and Ca;
n'ui- lomei ' w f the purging powder commonly
eets. r " C u Huck ' Mdßrue > Adair,
ream 1 V h , e Military Hofpiuls established in
in of: p.°' a^tcr the siege of tke Havanna by
out. 1 r" ' !n°^ S ln 1 7^1—and its utility
r t vras so well £ftabli(hed, that it has been con'
J tinned by feyeral eminent praditioHer. of
vin in city.
ably COpy tllC foliowi »g from the Ontario
iaot Gaze ' tc > P r "»ed at Geneva, bf Mr. Lu
cms Carey.]
s _ „ Geneva, September 22.
for- / Le T reat y h - e,d at B 'g Tree, on the Ge
ted 1 j- " e E nve r» w 'th the Seneci nation of In-*
■; es ' ! dl 'l ns > . wa s concluded lad Saturday. The
> object of tfcrs was the extinguishment of the
hen Ut c V% h^l Ctdcd b >' th, ' 3 'ftate to the ft ltd
"ftv ? Maflschufetts, and purchased by Mr. Ro*
1 bert Morns of Philadelphia. The Indiana
agreed to fell the whole of the-lands, ex->
| ce P tln £, reservations about tj.eir present fet
ier_ tlements. In three places on the Genefee
, r:\er, prdervatrons of z miles each ;at Car
ind dcaU \ Ca »^ adcre -nd on the Alleghany, re
servations from five t<b twenty thmifand acres
of We T e adc ' and at thc viila g e of Buffeloe
ars a l , aW L a ' U ° e ' 20 f< l uare miles, the
whole of the reservations amounting to
. 196,q00 acres.
r' n The n buiinefs was concl&ded with th<
greatest unanimity on the part of the Tn
lot a " d the ' r condu<ft h %My decent «
of 7°m motives of felf-intereft, some mdiridu
als had gone to considerable expence to
fru Urate the intention of the treaty and no
' ' bnfinefs could be doneuntil the laws were
put in force.
- *'jT be falc ft'P'ilation that 100,000 dollars
(hall he immediately {kid into t j, e hands of
.the President of the United States, as the
l guardian of the Seneca nation, to be by hira
fl. > nvefted . ln the funds of the United States,
«ind the interests afifing therefrom to be an
-ICJ jually paid to the Seneca nation : this will
4mount to about IJO dollars per annum to
each family.
™ | Th us has this great and -fertile country,
, 3 " Containing about 4,500,000 acres, come in
[e so the pofTeffion of the white people—and
, e f rom the g>"«t improvements making in this
; s CoL, ntry, in roads and other marks of civil-
ization, vTe may reasonably expeft that in
course of next season there will be a crood
/ road to the Falls of Niagara.
BOSTON, Oflober 7.
s e ' Mr. Pinckney, at our last dates, coutin
ued m liollatKl. He had re-ceived intelli
g"ce h, ' s reappointment; and the names,
ol his fellow commissioners.
A gentleman from Loij^ormentions, that
too much praise cannot be given to Mr.
t.ore, and the other Commissioners on A
merican spoliated property, for their inde
fatigable zfeal and persevering attention to
proeure indemnification. And liich has
been the fairnefsin the decifionof ninety ca
j fes fettled, that not one appeal has been
made.
j The regular London files by the last arri
vals are only to Aug. ,3. Weareinpof
fenjon of the Exeter Journal of the 21ft
which contains London heads to Autr
19th. 6 '
HUOUES RECALLED.
Capt- Brewfter arrived at New-London
the 30th ult. from days
informs, " 1 hat Viftrr Hugues was recall
ed." This may be confidefed by some as a
happy event; but they should recolleft the
fable of the fox and theglutted bees.
KNOXVILM:, September 18.
On Saturday last returned to this towa
the Hon. WILLIAM BLOUNT. As
soon as his approach was made known, thc
volunteer troop of cavalry, commanded by
John Lavender, Kfq. and a large concourse
of citizens haftcned to receive him, and met
him eight miles from this place, where, af
ter refrefi.ment, he was conduced into town
iu the following order, viz.
A detachment of the troop of cavalry,
ihe hon. Mr. Blount, accompanied by
the hon. gen. White, and the hon. Mr. Stu
art, late speaker of thc house of reprefeu
tatives.
The troops of cavalry.
Citizens in files.
We are happy to fay, that Mr. Blount
has received on his journey through this
state, the mod flattering and hearty wel
come from every dtfeription of citizens
a welcome juftlv doe from a grateful peo
ple to the father friend and prote&or of
their stats.
ALEXANDRIA, o£loter g.
At the election for flieriff la fl week, at
Marlborough co.urt-honfe (Maryland) a vc
ry serious affray happened. The parties of
the different candidates in the after part of
'the day, became so irritated at each other
as to come to blows, when a general engage
ment ensued. One man was killed on the
spot by a blow on the head, after he had
jumped dut of the csurt-hotife window, in,
endeavouring to escape ; two others have
since died, and several are very badlv wound
ed. 'Imported ill the (hi p M an c he st e r ,
Benjamin Shewell, Maftet - , e
om Eo inltaux, and for lale by the •'
» No. it Waluut Stint.
Bonrdepttx Bra-ndy
Irifli market claret in cases Entitled to ,
!".k'tioc*. - ii;e, in do. Drawback.
Sautenie> do. do.
Thomas Murgaireyd. '''
WHO HA'S FOR SALE. J
Shfify Wiive in pipe 3 and quarter casks
R:>ta do. - do. .
Pimento in hags 1 1
4.CCQ bufliels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evar.s, the sign ot ihe Indian
Quern, in the city of Haltimorc, on tVe 25th
d:»y of Odober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
Ahoiir teveri thouffttK) acres (»f land,
thepropirty of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying betxvec* Ueifler's-town and WelfcminlVer,
CotTimonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road runs through a configurable part ot
rhefe iamTs) the craci begins nqout 17 miles
from ftafomtjrtf, withVn a hundred yards j
of f.ii 1 Ufiiter.Vi-town, and extends to the dif-J
• anteot ali*vut twenty-three milts from Balti- {
more, Sind lie* on the main falls of Paupfico i
riv;r, from three to four miles thereon. Will j
he sol J in tra<s)s of one hundred and fi*ty to j
three hundred acre. There is a 1-arge propor-1
tioti cf meadow and wood land on each trait, -
t n:'* of them highly improved, with exrellent j
buildings and finegr.-fs. i
aiso J
A tra£l of fevea hundred acres or
land, called CltJver Farms, withlfl five miles of i
Hiideiifhui-g, e(lceme<l very «ood for Grass, i
Hichard l J ohfonby,of flladenfbutgh, will (hew , 1
this land to any person inclined to purchafp. : <
ALsO,
A traft of Mnd of about three hun-, 1
dred and thirty awes, within about tv:o ipiles ' ■
and a half o th£ President's houle in the fcede* !
ral City. It isqejrly all wood land, and a fine ,
citv of Bladen(btirgh, AlexailHria ;
and a part ot George-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfon
by, of Bladenibnrg, will -Ifo shew this land.
A liberal credit will be given tcr the great eft |
part of the pnrehafe money. he terms will ,
be made known on the day ©f sale. i
May 8
Just Received,
From Batavia (via Providence)
a few Boxes of Spices, coufifting of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
i"or sale by
WILLIKC-Sid FRANCIS,
Penn ftrcet.
May 30 d £ f
Davis's Latv Bool: Store,
No. 319, High-Slrect.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING busied for Tome time past in prepara
tions for removing into his profent houlV, has
b.-en under thenftceflity of poftp minguntil this day
iiiforming the gentlemen of the Ear generally thro'
the Halted States, that his spring importation of
latv hooks is now arranged ahd ready for lale, on
termsthat he trulls will entitle him to the like pre
fivencc he has experienced for Rveral years pa^.
Catalogues, combining the mod wried collec
-tioa ever imported i/ito this country, art printad
and will be delivered on application.
June ij. M" 6w
. City Commijfumers' Office,
Jur.eai; 1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the feleifl
and common ctnincil9, pafl'cd the 2id day of
May last. appointing tbe city cmrimiffioners,
and prescribing their duties, fe&ion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into (ive,diftri<£ls,
each to be under the fuperintendance of one of
the city commidioners, wlioistobe individually
reipoiiftble for the cleanliness of the sams, and
are as folio*'.
Driftrift No. I. From the south fide of Ce
dar-ftrtet, to the north fide ofSpruce-ftreet, Mi
■rthe fupcrmteftdence of Nathan Doyi.
a. From the north fide of Spruce-ftreetj to
tht north fide of YValnut-flreet, under tbe fuper
intendencc of Hugh Roberts.
From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fi<le ofHigh.ftretl, under the superintendence of
Jolcph XTlaypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-street, to the
north fid** of Mulberry ftrcet, under the super
intendence ef William Moulder.
5. From the fide of Mulberry-street to
the north fide of Vine-street, tinder the super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
Th»; cleaning of High--ftrcet to be in common.
A slated meeting of tht city eommifiion
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High
flreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock
July >4* ' coim
Stands for Draymen, &c.
In ptfrjuanft of an Ordinance from tbcSeleft and
Common Council, bearing data tbe »ad day of
■April, '797. providing for the appointme.it of
City Comm'iffioners, iSc. Sett, the Isth.
r~t followmg places are fipied by the
L said City for Stands fi>r
Draymen and their Horfet.
In Vine-flreet, eastward of Froht-ftrett, on
both fides.
Safi'afras, High,Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eiltward of .Front-street, on theno/th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to
Third-street.
Front-ftreat, eafl fide from Vine-Street to
Elfrith's alley-
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al
ky to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Water-street, weft fide from tht north end of
Stamper's or Moore's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce Jar-street, weft
fide. _ - . «
Drawbridge, north fide, east of FronNltreet',
Spruce, Pine and South streets, east ofFroist
ftrcet, south I'de.
Docic-ftreet, between Walnut-street and the
flatr stone croffiags, east fide, opposite George
Orkley's,
Second-street, between Salfafras and Vine
streets, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry streets.
SalTafras-ftreet, from Third to Foorth-Hreet,
east fide. . .
No drav or horse to stand within tea feet of
™STANDS FOR HACKNEY COACHES.
i'inc-llrcet, north tide from FotJrUi to Fifth
between Chefnut and Walnut
streets, weft. .
Branch-street, north fkd«,betw&eii Hitrd and
Fourth llreeU.
July 14- mwftftm
A.Literary Treat.
JvJ} putfijhed'i bandfomdy p-r'.ntcd on turning j
paper, price 1 dollar, 0
A new edition of that popular anil entertaining 0
work, vnt-.t!t".i f (
L->HE fORHSTf RS, an Am ipjean Tale ; WIBS u
a sequel to rjie hifioty of John' Dull. the Clo- j
thier—lll aferiespf letters to a frieud, wit.vthe ad
dition of two hitters', alluding to recent political ,
tranfaAsons in America.
Th« following extra<sl frotn the flavis A n-''oru:;!,
fti«\vs the principal characters that arc introduced: ''
John Billl, the Kingdom of fn;<and
Hi> Mother, the CI urch of fingl-nd
Hil Wife, the Parliament
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland
Hi« Brother i'atiick, Ireland u
Lewit.the K ngdom of France
HjsMiftrefi., the Old Conllitution
His new Wife, the Rational Reprelentation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain r
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic '
The Franks, the French Republic -
The Farefters, the Un;ted States of Amerii a r .
Robert Lumber, New-Hany."
J/>hn Codline, Maflachufctts
Humphrey Plowshare, Connecticut
Roger Carrier, Rhode Island
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
Julius Calar, New-Jersey
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania _
Ca.ftmar, Delaware
Walter Pipcwood, Virginia
His Grandson, George Walhingtoß
Peter Pitch, Harth Carolina
Charles Indigo, Viutk Carolina
George Trudy, Georgia t
Ethan GrseHwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknifo.
Black Cattle, Negro Slave* .
Rats, Speculators ,
Mother Carey's Chickens,
•jVThis popular and cntertainl«giatiricalhifto
ry of Am«ticii ii attributed to the Rev. Dr. B*l- (
km ap. It hasa great flicre of originality and a-
bounds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and chacaSerifes those
late political traofaAions which have c&ufed so
lnuci uneasiness in America.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16, '
South Second.Strcc;, and No. 59, Marke' tUtet.
June»6. • § j
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Bookseller
No. Ifi, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
H-VVE just received by the l«e arrivals from
London and Dublin, their fpriag importa
tion, consisting of a writty of the lit# ft and 1110 ft
approved l«w Books, whick, addei to those alrea
dy on hand, forma the mod extensive colleiSion ev
er offered for sale in this country. They theiefnre
beg leave to notiy, that from the nature of their
connedicnain Dutrtin, they are enabled to fell Irifli
editions (as they have hitherto at the very
To weft prices- The following are among the latest
publications.
Vefey, jun'ra Reports in Chancery, a VvU.
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Rcf orts
in the time of Lord Hardwicke ; Floyer's Pro&ers
Pradice in the Eccleßaflieal Cflurts ; Barton's
Trtatifi on a 9ui t in Equity ; Tidd's Pra&ice of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal Aikions, 1
parts complete ; Ward'a Law of Nations ; Cruise 1
on Ufea ; modern Reports, it vols. London edi- |
tioo.
H. and P. Rict expert t» receive by thefirft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, the ad part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidenaeby Loft, and a number of
new publication#,
June »6.
The History of i'ennfylvania,
Br .ROBERT PROUD,
IS now irl the prefa, ami will be puUliflied,
with all convenient expedition, by ZtCHA
RIA H Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, ild at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed pro|K)faU, until tbe
work is ready for the fubferibera.
July 18. lawtf
The Partnerlhip,
Y TNDF.R the firm of FREEMAN Is" Company,
is diflolved by mutual confeat. All pcrfons
having any demands agimft tkefaid Houfc are de
sired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; aoi
those indebted to the I Poufr are desired to make pay
ment to him—By whom buJinela will in future be
•arried on,at hisStorc, No. 39, South Front-street.
Aufif/l 7 ««J4w
Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed tkeir Counting House to
45, South Fifth-ftncet.
August 2. W&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijtrurgb Carlijle,
Shtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
■TPHE public are reqtiefted to take notice, that
I. the partnerlhip which has far forne time fub
fift'ed bctwea.n Machias Slough of Lancaster, urd
William Geer, is now diflolved; bat, not at M.
Slough infinuatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fu!>-
jc6t from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 39th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
more circumftantiaJly infarmed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
. theperufal »f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfe&ly juftifiahle in attaching him
felf to any other person in the profecutton of the
Stage convcyancsfrona Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
1 Now from tbe liberal and generous fapport the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
, this buGnefs, William Oeer, in conjunction with
. MelTrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
i to prosecute and carry It on, with every care, at
tention and difpotch that a leal to oblige the pub
, lie can possibly eaert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
f (hofa wno wifj to patroniee and enaourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
, Oearge Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,'
Market Street, Philadelphia, 611 every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shipper,(burg. The fare as hitherto
eftablilhed.
For the further accommodation of the public,
' a Stage will start every Wednesday from the hrufe
£ of Samuel V.lder, 111 Harriftiurg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
e and return from thcoce and ai wve at Harriftiurg
every Saturday, so that paflengers deftineci for
- Lancaft&r or Philadelphia, may proceed cm Mon
, day '' WILLIAM GEER.
Larttiricr, Jan. 17, X 797.
f N. B. This Line of Stages starts from the
house of William Ferr«, in Lancafti r, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
-1 cecding to the westward; and irom the house of
Mr. Samuel Eldet in Harrifburg every Wednef
t day morning, 011 the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, ar.tl returns
| from thence on /very Thursday ; performing the
fame routing daily a» in its tour from Philadel
phia. mwf
Advertii.emcnt, ,
On ilie 20th of November next ill Alexandria
(£>eing court day), will be exjwfed for We one
or more covering Jile ks, and federal young
oncf of different '»£<* and few ; all defended t
fraK-! Uoval Oift"( ar. imported Jack from Spain,
upwards as i hands high) out of imported '<
Jinnies.from ?v>alia,fol! 14 hands high.
The terms of sale (or if not fold, of letting |
then) for one or more feafu:i» to cover) will
then he made known: the payments may be L .
made eafv to the purchaser, hond a,':d lecunty
being gi»en for 'he amount, with tnterefh
At the fame time and plate, sundry
Horfr's and M-.res will he offered tor iale. The o(
latter having been to the Jacks, ire probably
with fr.al. p ,
JAMES ANDERSON, Manager. gJ
OHnt-Verriny,. jipth \ re
September, i' 797. J M
Insurance Companv of the State £
of Pennsylvania. n ;
Office will-be kept until further notice at
the £>cho«l House in German town. ihe
Company Itill retain the room in Chefnut, above
Seventh Arret, where a *perfcn will attend to re
ceive and give answers to applications, avfcry day
from 10 until I o'clock.
Sept i y , d.\taawtf _
Thomas Arrrtat and Bon, .
OF PHILADELPHIA,
INFORM th*j;r customers aF.d the public, they
have removed a part of their merchandize to
Wilmington : Atfo, they hove their ftcre open in
the city. Atcither place their friends can be fup
piled, and their orders carefully attended to
Sy the Cumberland, from Hull, they have re-
ccived a handforae afl»rtmcnt of articles, suitable vv
to the approaching season ; and cxpeA to add to it
by other fall (hips.
Should the sickness prevail in th* central part of
the city, that branch of their bufmefs will be re
moved to Germaatown.
♦ The communication by post is open and ra* K
gnlar as nlual.
6ppt. 18. 1 rtirf u
TO BE SOLD VERT CHEAP 7
A Light Wft GGON almost new, lyith a frame — cl
and a pair of haruefs (Englilh collars) has never ti
been used—price 90 Dolls.
A Horf. t6 Hand* high, seven years oldj—and a
new chair, witk top and harness— 310. v
Enquirfe No. 331, Market-ftreit ..
Xugufl 14. diw '
Far file or to be let on ground
-1 rent,
A-valuable Lot of Ground ; '
SITUATE on the north-eift corner of Wal- '
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State- '
House fqtiare. This le t\s fifty-one feet front a
on VValutU street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street j there are at
present two small two story brick house», and a
number «f small tenements thereon. 1
Also, for Sale, >
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate o»
Water-llreet, betveen Mulberry and Saffafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth raft- 1
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thtle house» !
ave the conversance of a public alley adjoining 1
on the nt>rth fide, and are a very desirable fitua- <
tion for a merchant, flour fafior,or others who I
may hav« occasion for storage of goods. This '
property will be fold on very reasonable twms
forcafh. For further information apply to the '
printer.
July if. m&wtf__ ,
T O B E S O L D, i
And pojfejjiun given immediately ,
A LARGE two story hj-kk Houfe,handfomely
fituetcd in Princeton. There are four rooms
and a large entry on each ftoor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings 51 feet in
leagth, and a piazza of 5 7 feet. There is a pun'ip
in the yard, an excelleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two.
(tables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two stables for 27 horses. The heal
tluMefe and pleasantness ot it* situation, and thi
number •£. gtateel and agreeable families in and
near the town, reader it a dedrable retteett for a
gentleman from the city. The commodioufnefs of
the house, its central pofitiqn, and the largentfj of
the (lables,make
which it hid always been confiderd as a capital
ftaad. Imiuire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. *5 19—dtwiaxvtf
City of Wafliington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
F»r the improvement of the Federal City.
Amsgoificentdwelling-houfe 10,000 dollars,
tic cash 30,000, are jo.ooo
1 ditt» if.Ooo A cash 5.?,00© 40,000
I 1 dttto 15,000 & oa(h 15,000 30,000
l ditto 10,000 cash 10,000 10,090
, I ditto 5,00q & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & eaffc 5,000 10,000
1 j cafe prike of 10,000
a do. 5,000 each,are * »0,000
: 10 do.' 1,000 - - 10,00 c
ae> do. 500 - - 10,000
[ 00 do. 100 - - 10,000
aoo dn. 50 - ■ io,o«o
400 do. 15 - - 10,000
1,000 do. »o - ao.ooo
15,000 do. 10 • F5«,ooo
t 16,739 Prizes.
i 33,161 Blanks.
J 5C,00c5 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,005>
N. B. Tofavour thofc who may take a quan
tity ol frickcts.the priic of 40,000 dollars will be
J the i.ajt drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
0 hut ONI :
1 And approved notes, fesuring payssent in either
e monvy or priees, ia ten days altex drawing, will
t be received for aijrnuaibcr not lets than 30 tick
ets. t
y This Lottery will afford an el#gar.t fpecimcn ol
;, ih>.-priv»te buildings to he ert<9ed in the City of
0 Walhington—Two besutifal defies aie already
leleded for the entire fronts on two of thepublk
t, squares; fro«i these drawiagjit ispropofed tuereel
e two centre and 'our corner hwildiDps.as fooa as pof-
I- fible after Ihil lotury isfpld, and to cenvc-y theja,
r, wli«i complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ir
tin;manner deferibed in the fch.eme for the Hotci
r Lottery. A nett deduflion of five per cent. wUI
1- be made to defray, the n««fiary of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be taade a part of
rhe fund intended for rhe National Upivfirfity, to
be erecled'wi'hin the city ps V afliington.
« The real feeuritiosgiven for the paytcstit of th«
y Brizes, are held by the President and two Dired
ors of the Bank of Coluaibia, and are valued at
if more than half ,the amount ol the lottery,
r- SAMUEL MODGET.
1. Tickets may be had at the Bank ol Co!/.ni
ls flii ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of l-eter
e Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkin*. Richmond :
1- W of R'd»rd Wills, Cooper's Ferry.
HlV?f
This Day Publifliefti,
And to be fold by WILI.IAM YOUNG,.corner of
Second ?.nd Chefnut streets,
Price 3-Bof a Dollar, Ex
Obfervatims on cm-tain Documents
Contained i'i NoPV and VI of
" The Hi story of the Uiiited States for Su .
the year 1796," At
In which the cm ar<;k of a^ainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, A
Late Secretary of tire Treasury, is FULLY
\\E! UTF.D. ~
WRITTEN BY UIMS EL T.
This publication prefeiits a ccnc.i'e ft.'tement
of the base Means pra&ifed by the Jacolnusof the
United States to asperse the of rhofe
who are c&rmtff r.-d as hoftifc to fiaeir Jifor
ganizing
rtipondence bet we-: n Mr. M'aniilr-.t.'i fin 8 Messrs.
Monroe, ai><i on the i'r.b
jcA of ,the documents aforefai.f, ami u lyrics of Li
ters from James Reynolds audhi* wile to Mr Ha
milton, proving beyond the poffilaihy of a doubt,
that the connection between him and Reynolds,
was the r/fult rfi a daring eonfpiraay on the }>ar*t
of the latter and his aflociates to extort money.
'£*T A dilcount of one third from the retail.price
will be made in favor ot whole fa ic purchaser*, fpr
casu. Orders to be addrcfTea to Mr Yowng.
Av:ru(l
No. i*JB.
Diflrift of Pemtfylvaniay to wit :
(l s B>E. M* REMEMBERED, that on the s
{ • s.j jj tvvcf¥t y f j 3 y 0 f July, in the twen
ty fee ond year of'the indepetvlence of the United
Statts of America, John Fenno, of fehe said dif
triA,hath deposited in this office the title of a book,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit :
" Observations on certaia documents contained j -*
" in No. V. and VI. of " The History of the Unit- • J
" ed States for the year 1796," in which thicharge at
" of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, lat« er
<fc Secretary of the Treasury, is fully ft
K Written by himfelf " n
In conformity to the a& of the Congress of the { w
Ueited States, entituled, "An for the encour- t |
agement of learning, by lceurii«£ the copies of | 0
inaf»«, charts and broils to the authors ane? propri
etorsof i'uch copies, during th» times th*eim mM- 2)
tioned." c<
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk as the Djlrifl of Petmfyl+ania. ii
July ij. W4VT b
t he Inhabitants of the Diftridlr
of Southwark, 1
A RE informed that a Coachre is provided, to bi n
l\. kept at the Conllables' ofliee, the north ea!l
corner of Front and Almond ftfcfcts, whert th« Z
friends of those Ock pc:rfon» who desire to "be re
moved to the City are rcquefted to make
application—Alfi>, a Heaife will be kept in readi- J
ness for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
N. B.— The Poor, who wife to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may Uc farniftied with orders
hy applying as .iSov• Ah?. 19
William Blackburn, ;
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE i
No. 64 soUth Sccond-Jreet.
TICKKTS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which 1
commanced drawing the loth May, FOR i
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on «c- !
ceunt of the five firft drawn tickets, pri*es of
fanr thoufaud dollars aach, on the last day ot
drawing.
CSieck Books kept for examination ku<! regitter
ing, in the Canal, No. 1, City of Walhington, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets forfalein the Schuylkillbriilfe and
Perkromen Bridge lotteriea, which will begin
drawing in the course »f the fommar.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, Btc- &c. tranfaAed with the
utmost attention.
June % tu.Vf
Erflcine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED, 1
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co. .
No 40 South Second ftrett,
[Price .1 Cents]
1 A View of the Causes ana Confequen
r ccs of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas EitsiuNi.
j May t j §
"STATE TRIALS,
Sold b W. Youkq, Bookfellcr,Nu. s*, South Se
tond-ftre«t,
The Pennfylva'nia State Trials,
Containing the impeachment, trial, and
al of FrancisHopkinfon, Judge of tire Co«rt
r \ dmiralty, aqd John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral-—ln one large S vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars. 1 ,
W. Youno has for sale, a general aflortment of
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pftck
f' <"ge, well aflorted, and entitled to the drawback if
o nipartcd. Jtily 7-—*
For Sale,
0 '
ic That tvell known place, called
10 f n« Y,
10 Nelhaminy creek, tR nule« from Phila
-10 V-/ latleiphia, on the Kew York
ic containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
io preiniCes are a two i>«*ry flone house occu
-10 pied as a tvern, and a good one story stone kit
-10 chen, a Urge frame stable with « gt>od
10 floor, and lom'f out buildings -also a w ell of
10 good water, and an excellent i e Uoufe. On
10 this place is a mo:) elegant situation fora gftitle
uian's feat, commanding a vsvr of the Kelham
iry to its juni£\ion wiih the Delawase, and thence
across to the Jerfcy Ihore. It ha? the privilege
- of one half the toll received from rhe bridge.
,41 For terms apply to the StaWcrihcr,
MO 11 DEC A! LEWIS.
n- Vsv 7A. ' jtau'tf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies,
er -n «-;iS. GROOMBKIDGE withm»ch pleaf
ill ureand rtfpeft, return} her sincere ac
k- knowledgemcrt for the liberal tntouragemest
Uie has receivesl during four years rcOdenae ia
01 Philadelphia ; and alTures her friends ami the
of public, so far from intending to decline ber
fchool, Ihe has made a *iiperior arvangemant for
tht mgrc convenient acconimod-.tion of her
f ftholars. —Every branch of ufcfnl and prlite
education i» particularly attended to by Mrs.
Ia ' Groombridge aud m'aftars excelling in their
. I refpedliveproteirioi.s.
Corner of Spruce and Uv/enth Streets.
,j. June ?th, 1797- Jimiti'
c f The Gtuatiwi is healthy ; and n»de
to more agreeable by an exttfnfivc garden afld lot
of grc-und aSjoining the houle.
l ~~Ju/l Publifcdt
at And to be h*d of Mcffrs. Dofefon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, anc} the other pricipal Bookfeilers in the
city,price cue dollar, twinty-five cents,in Hoards,
ti- New" Views of the Origin of the
£r . Tribes and Nations of 'America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, h. n.
June at.
Rcfs & Simfo'i,
HAVE FOR SALE
f Hogflicads, - N
Excellent Coffee in < Tierces, and
C. Barrel*.
A (mall parcel of nice cocoa in bass
A few puncheons [arrtaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior Tercriffee wine, old an 1 in Madeira pipe®
An invoice of jewellery and hoficry to be fold by
the package
A few hamp:rs of best En o lifh cheese.
Tuly 27. dtf.
The Subscriber has for Sale,
A large aiTortmettt-®f India Mufllus,
coarse and line
India Calicoes
Sooty Ro'malls
B'ue Cloths and Checks
Bundanna Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Giili Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irifo Linens and Sheetisgs, Mrell
aflorted
A box of Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
Two boxes of fine Spices, cotaining Nutnvegf,
' Mace and Cloves
Black Pepper of firft quality
East Indua Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wine
Dstto of Gin
Roll Brimstone
Mordecai Lewis.
Aurruft T2 . 'levrim
Biggins' Specific
FOR TIIB
PREVENTION AND CURE OF THE
YELLOW FEVER.
I?VER since this difcafe made such ravages in this
city and New-York, the author hay turned his
attention to its cause* and cure—The rdult of his
enquiries convinced him that the reason why so
few persons recover from its attacks, are fr«m its
not being well under flood, and the confcquent
\ method taken to cure it. He is peffuaded
; that theexceflive bleedigns and mercurial reatmeiat
j of the Faculty i« highly injurious, and that the on
j ly rational mode of treatment is by the use of proper
1 acids. Convinced of this he offers his Specif ccs a
certain remedy, if used according to the dirc«stions.
To be'had in bottles, at one dollar each, of the
inventor Cfo. Higgins % Cherry street, two doors a
bove Ninth street, (late manager of Jack foil an 4
Co's Medicine Warehoufc, London); by y.-Lir
! blame, No. 1"6 ;W- No. 177 j Pearee, No.
21, South Third (Ireet, T. Stiff, No. /e,New llrcet,
near Vine ft»eet, andj. Gales, Mo. 36, Race street.
Aug. 25. tutha 3t
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just rGceived, by Wm. Griffiths,No.i77,3ontk
Second-street, 1 frefh (up ply of
Genuine Balsam of Honey,
A Medicine invented liy the late Sir John HiM
(who knowledge as a Bounift procured him
the appellation of the Linnaeus of Britain) »Tid ii
•onfidered in England as a *trta:n core for the ator*
complaints ; it is also of Angular efficacy is the
Hooping Cough,
It may also be had retail of W. A. Stokes, No.
1 61, South Second-ftre«t, and T. Stiff, 55, New
ftrttt, in bottles at y; cents csxh.
Wm. Gairri rHs having ohfer»«d the hpppy et
fect of the medicine, (fev«ral cafetof cures jiav
f ii«c come within bis own knowledge) and the preat
t demand for it has induced him to order a ItiTge
supply, a part of which he hes jut received.
At-guf 3. .lawjw
36 Dollars Reward.
1 AN away on S«tu»d»y la/It, two indented &er-
XV vasts,Gifiwrd Pally, a mulatto boy, about 17
' year* of ape, a slim light built a Aire fellow, can
: read and write,five feet fe*en or eight inch*? high,
hat a heavy countenance ; had on a fuftiaji coatt#
_ aad trowfer*, a l}igh crowned hat, fine fooes &e.
Allan Wcilons, a black man, about 24 years of
age, five fact ftrven weight inches high,e thick set
built f*l!ew, particularly about:the
hiicfon a faiior's blue jacket lined with fwanfei ,
dark striped vest, fuftiau tiowfers, high crowned
hat, coarse fhoev, &c.; each of them had several
lfcirts and several other cloathes with them. Thir
ty Doliirs will be paid for tlie runaways, or 15 dol
lars for etch, and rcafonable charges, oa delivering
them at No. 54, North Third-ftrect.
The black fellow is about a year from Lewis
Town, in the County of Suffrx, state of Dela<«
Ware, and has uken the boy with him.
July 31. mtujfcfgw
To be SOLD tr RENTED,
ALARO.E 3' Story Brick House, on the
Smith fiij* of Filbert street, between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied at the Sur
veyor General's Office.
The Huilding is 36 feet front and 35 feetdejp,
the lot 110 feet deep, with.the privilege of a nine
feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
k the lot, to a thirty fe'ct wide Cotirt for Carriages
;f to turn in. The House is not pkftercd, and
may be turned either into »ne, or two dwelling'
Hoijfes. It is (uitab'e for a Urge Manufactory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
'1 pofTeffion will be given.
Apply to No. Hi, Chefnut-SfTeet.
Aug. 11. c«d4t.
Mujkal 'lnjlrument ManufafiorJ,
u- No. 167, Arcf> Street.
t- T ? ARPKR, harpticliord,grand, portable gra»d K
xJL fidi-board, pier tabk and fquwa piano Imm
0 f mak< r from London, returns thaiks to his friend*
) n ar,d ti:e public, for their liberal encouragement,
! e _ and hopes that by his afficuity and attntit nto cv
n. ery branch of his bufmefs, wr.itri! atortinuancft
of their favcrs. Piano fertes made on thf ueweft
T and nioft approved plans, with fecials, pateat,
s ' f<vell, and French harp flop, whith he flttteu
himfclf will vS found on trial by unprejudicetl
judgts r to be equal if not fupericrto anyimporN
ed, a*d twenty per cent cheaper. Any ir.llr*
mint purchased uf'him, it oot approved cf Ui
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds c: Mafical inftrnments made,
Mued, and rtpanetl with the greatest accuracy,
if- dil'parch. and on the meit realor.able term-, tit
e- ready money only.
st Second hand Piano Ferte. taken in
ia May v>. .
er Forty Dollars Reward.
or n ATs' away from the fiiblcriber on the fee
er l"V ond diyof this intt. July, a Mulatto Man*
itc inmed Will flowzer, about forty years of «ge,
r '- five feet seven or eight inches high, rather
'if chunky made ; had on when ho went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, striped purple trowfers
and jacket. It i« probable he will change hi 4
cloathes, as he took a number with him. The
tie f ßu l fellow formerly belonged to Mr. Charlea
lot Blake of this place ; and it is expected he hag
made towards Jones's Neck, in the Delaware
State. —Any perfou apprehending the Said fel
low, iand securing him so that I can get him a
ce ' gain, ftiall receive the above reward if taken
;lu stt of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
ds ' the county, and all reasonable charges if bro't
home*
JESSE REED,
Queen Ann's Co««ty, Maryland.
July 3. ~ wjt