of the & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Nvmsmr 1366.]
A Pocket-Book.
LEFT, yesterday morning, at, or LOST coming
from the lower ferry inn to Philadelphia, a Red Mo
rocco Posket-Book, containing one ten dollar bank
note, sundry papers, letters, Instruments, and two
promiflory n"tts, drawn by C.' Jackson & Co. dated
ift Novembrr, 1796, at 120 days, for 505 dollars
each, and indorsed by the person in whose favor they
are drawn. Any one who will deliver the with
the papers, letters and notes, to the printer hereof,
shall have the money for their trouble, without any
*)ueftions acted.
N. B. The papers can be of no use to any one but
the owner, the means of negociating them being flop
ped
January 23
The Stockholders ot the Pennsylvania
Population Company
Are requested to meet at the company's Office, No.
53, North Vourth-ftreet, on Wednesday, the ill of
February next, at li o'clock, for the purpose of taking
into consideration the proceedings of the Company, and
of making further afleffnents on the (hares, in order
to defray the expenses of the Company agreeable to
the soth, Article of the Constitution.
By erder ef the Board.
SOLOMON MARACHE, Secretary.
January, 43d, 1797. dtFeb.i.
NOTICE.
Persons haying Goods en board the Ship Perfever
aiice, James Williamfon, mailer, bound from Ham
burg to this Port, and lately put into New-York,
where the VefTel is discharging, will please apply to
THOM AS and JOHN KETLAND.
Philadelphia, Jan. 11, 1797, v tf
Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOBSON,
No. 15, South Thirdftreet,
Has jttft received, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, via I.on
don, an assortment of
Scarlet
Drab [ Cloaks trimmed with lur and
Purple and f ermmf.
Pt»»rl J
December 15
Cheap French China.
THE fnbfcribers finding it impossible to fiipply their
ftt»re with a»y more China from France, the prices
being too immoderate in the manufactories, give no
tice that they will fell at prime cost the remaining
fleck hand, confiftmg of
Deflert : etts,
Tea-Table Setts
Separate Cups and Saucers
Groupes and Figures
Alabaster Vases %
Looking Glafle«, in gilt frames,
Befit 1 s Imlia Japan'd Toilet Desks, Chairs, Tables
nad Ouadrille Boxe». PASQUIER & Co.
w . No. 9J, South Seeond-ftreet.
December rph
(Zj* notice
THE Sales of LANDS of the United States, in the
North-Western Territory, heretofore advertised
in the ftveral public papers, will commence this even
ing, at the City Taver* to be continued from day
»o day, 'till the tonth of February next, if not sooner
fold.
January 4
Public Notice,
IS HEREBY GIVEN, that I have applied to the
judges of the Supreme Court of this state, to supply the
defeA in my Title to a lot of ground, situate 011 the Wed
fide of Fourth-flreet, containing in breadth 20 feet, and
in length 56 feet, bounded Northwardand Weltward, by
ground of the fubferiber, Southward by ground of Edward
Shippen, and Eastward by Fourth-flreet, occasioned by
the loss of a deed from Timothy Harrington, John Lewis
and James Walton, by their attorney Robert Mollyneux
. All perfone concerned, are required to appear before
two of the justices of the said ccmrt, at the house of
Thomas M'Kean, esq. the Chief Jullice of the state, on
the 30th in ft. at 10 o'clock in the forenoon, to make their
answer to the bill of the fubferiber, filed in the office of
Edward Burd, esq. Prothonotary of the fa'id court.
WILLIAM SHIPPEN, jun.
Philadelphia, January 6th, 1797. dt3Qth
Waihington Lottery.
TICKIIFS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchar.gsd for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chefhut
freet, where a corred Numerical Book is kept for public
infpeftion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
changed for prizes diawa in the' Washington Lottery, oi
which the 54th and 55th days returns ire received
gj- The Business of a Broker carried on as usual.
January I ttstf
SALT PETRI
A quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for
sale at No. 25, South Third-ffreet.
November 5.
Loft or Mislaid,
At the Sank of the United States, Joseph Higbee's
•Note, djtcd 29th December lall, ior twelve fcundred
dollars, p*yaH)e at 60 days to Nathaniel Lewis & S»n.
Whoever m?y find the fame will pleai'e return it u> said
Bank, or to the subscribers, who will allow a reward.
Payment being harred, it cannot be of use to any
ether person. NATHANIEL LEWIS & SON.
Jannary 5. J- 3 l
For Sale,,
Two Convenient BRtCsK HOUSES,
Three stories high, 16 feet front, and 40 feet deep
.eaeh, and adjoining; situated on tjie east fide of Front,
between Race and Vine.ftreeU ; No». 161 and 163.
They will be fold on very readable terras, either
separately or logether. Apply tp
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
d 1 w
January 11
A CARD.
If Mon/ifur G. SoHin,
Who left Bordeaux the »ot)> Ju»e last, and arrived
at Boston r.bout the middle of in the fehooner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he i« requefled to call on
Joseph Authony & Co. No, J, Chefnut-ftreet, who
ivrill give him fomi information of importanie.
JPecember 24,
Wm, Holdernesse, No. 76,
HI GH-STREET,
Has received by the late arrivals,
A Well Selected A s sem m snt of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail) wn the very
lowest terras ;
Amongjl <whicb are
Some elegant 4*4 Snd 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns
Ditto Fnrnit ure ditto
Ditto Dirmty
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muslim
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrellas of the firft quality, aflorted
Irish Linens, very fine, and Table Linen#
Marfei'lles and Cotton Counterpanes
Refe Blankets aflorted—Set.
O<slobtr 26. d
By the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Nov. 3P
FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP M ART,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
aiSSigajTwd hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MAfyY is not fold in a few days, (he will tak
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
October 31
j-For Sligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship A'jNcr,
yjsjjfflgggi Cuthbart Rigjjs, mister.
Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or paflage >pp!y to
Who hi! for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well aflorted
3 Bales liilh Flannel., and 2 boxes Linens
*5 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo
, 5
A few barrel. Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c
November 11, 1796,
jQ|rX The Ship DIANA,
Samuel Pile, Mailer,'
i'-AEBma Burthen to; 47-95 tens regitter, built in
Philadelphia in the year 1791, of live oak
and red cedar, and was Qieathed 13 months ago, (lie
has just had a compleat out-fit, and in.,y be sent to fta
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
' Philip Nicklin& Co.
Who have fur sale on beard said vtjtl,
27 eaflts of fine yeljow paint.
9 boxes and iz bundles of writing flat»»,
1 box ink stands and note prefles.
14 balej of fail oaiivafs.'
Imperial )
Hyson, and, £ TEAS.
Soucheng J
40,000 pieces .Nankceiw of the frrft q«alky,
19 tubs Quickfilvcr.
i chcfts Bandanna handkerchiefs.
A few chests Manehefter goodswell aflorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinet?, Dimities, &c.
3 boxes black sewing fitk.
IHo crates Queens ware well aflbrted.
10 tons ihcet lead.
Nails afloi ted, flat and (harp points.
London Particular, ") „ , . , ¥r .
London M ; rkrt, [ Made.ra Wm» m p.pes
New-York Market, 5 hogfeeads.
40 pipes and 10 hogfkeads Teneriffr wiae.
8 tierces Snake Rest,
150 logs Mahogany.
Nov 7.
For carrying the Mails of the United
States,
On the following Pufi Roads-, will he recti-ved until
thejirjl day of March next inclujive ■'
I. From Charleftuit, S. C. by Jackfonboro* and Coofa
hatchy, to Savannah, twice a week. Receive the <Vlail
at Charlifton every Tuelday and Friday by 6, P. M. and
deliver it at Savannah the next Friday and Monday, bv 8
A. M. Returning, reccivc the Mail at Savannah eve
Saturday, by 6, P.M. and Wednesday by 6, A. M. and
deliver it at Charleston the next Tuofday and Friday
by noon.
Proposals for this route I will be reeeived by tie fxfl-majler at
Savannah.
2. From Coofahatchy to Beaufort once a week—
Receive the mail at Coofahatchy every Thursday by 6,
p. m. and deliver it at Beanfort by noon on Friday. Re
turning, leave Beaufort every Friday by 3, ?. as. and arrive
at Coofahatchy on Saturday by 8, a. m.
Proposals for carrying che mail on this route will be r«-
oeived by the poft-m?fter at Beaufort.
Note I. The Poit-mafter General may alter the times
f*r the arrival and departure of the mails at any time du
ring the continuance of the contra&s, he previouljy flipu
lating an adequate eempen Cation for any extra expence
that may be ocoafioned thereby.
Note 2. For every hours delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in arriving after the times prescribed by con
trad, the contractor fliall forfait one dollar, aad if the
delay continue until the departore of any depending mail
an additional forfeiture of five dollars fliall be incurred.
Note 3. Should any person making proposals desire an
alteration .of tjbe times of arrival and departure sbove fpe
cified, he must state the alteration desired ahd the price
he will carry the mail for with and without such alte
ration-
Note 4. The contra#? are ts be in operation on the
-frit day of April »ext and to. continue, axil the 30th of
September in the year 1800.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
jGmtral.
Seneral Poll Office, J
Philadelphia, Jap. JJ, 1796-)
V»o. li.
TUESDAT EVENING, JANUART .
J>ale,
L or
Imported by the Eagle
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
w&'f
William Bell;
Russia Matts,
Also,
For Sale, or Charter,
And on hand.
PROPOSALS,
ißreton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Der.tift to the
King and Royal Fanjily of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aflortment of every thing necessary
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Mineral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifiee in powder ; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
fweetenir.g the mouth'and preserving the teeth—he
also furniflies Brufbes and foft Sponges.
*** He lives in Chefaut-flreet, No. 135, abeve
Fourthflreet.
November 26,
BALL.
New Cotillions, Scutch Reelt, and Contre Dances.
Mcffrs. Francis and By ne beg leave to inform thiir
fcholirs, friends, and the public in general, that their
firft Ball for th'l3 frafon will be on Tacfday, the *4, at
O'Ellers's afTcmbly-rc.'om ; at which a variety of new
Catillions, Centre Dineee, and the raoft
Scotch Reels, will be intreduted.
Messrs. Francis and Byrne propolc to give gratuitous
attendance at their fchoel room, for the inftru&ion of
these Ladies and Gentlemen ill their new dances, who
mean to honer the ball room with their prefence,—at
te»dance for this purpose after thtlr febcol hours, on
Tueldays, and Thurl'days,
Tickets to be had t>f Meflrs. Frances and Byrne No.
70, North Eight ftr?et, or at O'Ellers's Hotel, ti
dies are requtfted to apply to their female friends,
Irbolarg of MefTrs. F. & B. or as above, at their resi
dence.
N B. The ww dances will pot infringe upon the
usual routine of the eveuing.
The days of teaching for their young pupils arcThurf
days and Saturdays, from three o'clock in the afternoon
till fix—and onTuclday* 8c Thursdays, from fix till nine,
(pr thofie ol a more advanced age, '
Private tuition as usual..
January u, 1797
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, iisfc, &c.
This day landing from the ftiip Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from London,
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Sccond-ftreeu,
A moji capital and •xtertfive Afforlmtnt of
GARDEN, GRASS md FLOVVER-SEEDS,
Among which are,
.Afp&ragus Throe
Bcrecolc Twelve
Beans Tlairtwi)
Beet* Fifteen
Brocoli i'iftct*
Cabbage Six
Carrot Four
Cauliflower Twenty-tbre*
Celery! Twenty-one
Cucumber
Common and lemon Thyme
CtMlcd i«ai and fjprigged Paisley
Pot Mangold P\;t Marjorgm
Bal» 1 hyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek Kail Shallots
Rape See 4 Rye Gi*U Saint Foin Lucerne
Red and white Clover Timcthy, &c. &c.
With a curious collection of the mist. esteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
the raoft extensive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Seedftiian Ui London, and
artf*war;anted frefh and good.,
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
17 . E§
kinds
Five
Four
mwftf
Twenty-five
Sw
Eleve»
Twenty-G*
Si* .
Three
Five ,
Tea
In order !u ■ comply with eortlraiU, 1 will JiU, Jar
ajiprevfd bonds, cn 3 equal annual payments,
A Square of LOTS,
At the upper end of Frederickfburg, beginning op
pofire to tbe lawer corner of Do<Jlor VVellford's, on
Caroline-flrect, and running up to the cross fireet
leading to Fitzhugh's ferry, and from thence back to
Sophia-street. This fquarel have laid off into 14 Uts,
27 and aa half f«et frost, and Hi back, is en Ciro
line-ftrect, and 12 011 Sophia-street. Nine of those
o« Caroli, c-ftre«t I have Ital'td on an annual ground
rent of 8 and 10 pounds, to the amount of 74 pounds,
and the Tioant lots a purchafet could enhanre the value
0/ by building frrull houses, which will as readily
procure te«a*ts as pots or goards will Martins in the
spring, and yiel-a a greater profi; in proportion to
their eoft than large buildings. Thoi'e who incline
to purchase may knew the terms by applying to
Mh&ftf
Bell-Air, Dec. 8, 1796.
THE SUBSCRIBER
WISHES to ascertain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade a Stont-Cutter, or Srick Layer,
who quitted Ireland i<) 1783, or 1784, and came into
this Country, ('tis fuupnfed to Philadelphia) about
four years lince, be living or dead. Ae this intelli
gence is of tfiehigheft importance, it will be thaakfiil
ly rectived, by GEO. DAVIS,
No. 313, High-street
w & sim
December ji
Bank of Pennsylvania,
January 4, 1797.
At a meeting of the Bailors th's day, a dividend ps
•sixteen dollars on each (Jure was declared for the last
6 mouths, which will be paid to the St»ekliold«rs jrf
t«r the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cafcitr..
J*"- .3
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was bought for Ten Thousand
Dollars.
He is 3 years »ld, & feet high, growing 18 foet.
He eats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water 5 he, has drank feme days forty botjlos of pqrter,
drawing the eerka with hit trviuk.
He is perfe<ftly inoffenfive j travels loose, at the
rate of five nsiles an hour, and is the greatell curiosity
ever brought to tils Conti#eut.
He is to be feeji 'till tke 15 th of January, in
Market-street between Third and Fourth-streets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every o»e ntay fte him—
after which lime the farmer prise of half a dollar will
be refaaiad. .
He will leave Philadelphia as soon a» the wetther
will permit.
December 31
legant Brussels k Turkey Carpeting,
For fels by Qcorge Dobfon, JSo. 15, South Third-ftrcct.
Decsmtcr j5. *
46w.
to be used forKhe
And FOR SALE by
ROOTS, &c. &c.
kinds
HENRY FIT'ZHUGH.
Which accompanied the meffege if the President of
the United States to both Houses ot Congress,
January 19, 1797.
Letter to Air. Pinchney, Minijler Plenipotentiary of
the United States ta the Frtncb Refublic.
[Continued from yefttrday's G»z«te.J
But Mr. Adet fayi, •< That Mr. Jay's negotiation
was enveloped from its arigin in the shadow of myste
ry." And to whom was our gpvernment bound to
unveil it ? to France or to her minister—Mr. Ad#t
should answer or not have complained. And wis it
f«rthisto make as a dependence on the French empirp
that our alliance was formed ? Did we ftipulatr to sub
mit the exertife of our foverfignly (if it.i« not a con
tradilHoa in ternu) to the direiSion of the government
of France ? Let the treaty ltfelf furnifh th t answer,*
" The eflential and dir*A end of the present defenfive
" alliance is to maintain efeiftually the liberty,/ove
" reignty, and independence absolute and unlimited, of
" the fait? United States, as well ia matters • f govern
" ment as of cummerte. } ' So likewise the treaty of
Amity and commerce in its preamble, declaras that hit
snnft Chriftiaa Majesty and the United States willing
to fix the rales which ought to be followed relative t»
theeorrefpondeneeand commerce ifhich they desire ta
establish between their refpeAive countries, have takea
" for the balls of their government, the most petfeft
" equality and rtcifrecity"—" and referring withal to
" each party the liberty of admitting at it f pltajure oth
" er nations to a participation of the fame advantages."
Corrrfpend'ng with thin declaration in our treaty of
Amity and Commerce with France, is the declaratio*
•f the Marqnis dt IVoailles, h«r ambassador at the court
of London, on the 13th of March 1775, five weeks af
ter the treaty was signed. Some p.iflages in this de.
claraiioa are so pertinent to the fubjefl in difcuffien t
shall quote them at length.
u I he iinderfigned Ambassador of his most Christian
' Majesty, has received ejepreft orders to make the
" following declaration to the eourt of London."
' " The United States ef North America, tuho are in
" full ptflljian of Independence, as pronounced by then
" on the 4tb of July 1776, having proposed to the king
" to consolidate by a formal convention, the connec
" tion begon to be eftihiifhed between the two nations,
" the refpeAive plenipotentiaries hare signed a .treaty
" of friendship and earanterre, deigned t® ferva as
" a foundation for their mutual good correfpondtnee."
%awt24<
" Hi« majesty being determined to cultivate the
good understanding fublilting between France and
Great Britain, by e»ery means compatible with
hi* dignity, and the good of his ftibjefts, thinks
it neceflary to make this proceeding known to the
court of London, and to declare, at the fame time,
that the contrasting parties have paid great
rion not to stipulate any exdujtve at/vantages insaver
as the French nation, and that the United States kavp
reserved the liberty as treating with every naiiatf
tvh ite'uer upsn the fame footing of equality and re
ciprocity." Wby afttr all this, do we hear from
Mr. Adet the complaint, That the negoci t ions of
the Biitiiti treaty were fccretly conduced? Ia Or
thcr words, that in exercising their absolute and
unlimited rights of " government and cotnmevcc''
the United States did not lay ope* to the Frenei)
Hiinifter or his government the inftrultion* to tfir
envuy for lettling our evitt disputes ai-d regulating
our own commerte with Great-Britain ? So far as
candor and friendfkip required, a communication
was made to~the French mißifter. He wa* offici
ally informed, " That Mr. Jay wa* inftruAed no£
to weaken our engagements to France." This ia
ftru&ion was obeyed, Mr. Jay having taken cart
toinfert in the 25th article of the treaty thi* ex
plicit stipulation. that " nothing in this treaty
contained (hail be con (trued or operate contrary to
former and exiting public treaties with other fore?
reigns or Gates."
Creffw
Onion
Radiih
Turnip
Peas
Savoy
Parsnip
Melon
jLetUic^
The government gAe * further proof of iu
candor and friendfhip by i-ommunicating to the
French minister the treaty itfelf, prior to Its ratifi
cation, " ia order to enable him to make such ob
servations thereon as he might judge proper.'*
These observations yoa will fee in Mr. Adet's let
ter to the secretary of Gate, of June 50th, 179J;
and the refutation of his obje&ions in the secreta
ry's answer, dated the 6th of July following.
With these facts in view, facts of which the chief
are drawn from our treaties with France, and from
her own aAs and laws, what opinion ii to be form*
cd of Mr. Adet's declaration, " That the execa*
tive directory regards the treaty of commerce c«ti»
eluded with Great-Britain as a violation of the trea
ty made with France in 1778, and equivalent to a
treaty of alliance with Great-Britain ?"
7thJ.d4W
I will now advert to the charge, " That far
from offering the French the succours which friend
fhip might have given without cempromitting- it,
the American government in thi* refpedi violated
the letter of treaties " ,
As far as I can discover, the latter part of thi*
charge it rested wholly on the 17th article of the
commercial treaty ; which, therefore, it will be no
ceffary to examine. The stipulations are mutual j
but the examination will be Amplified by canfider
iog their application to France alone. The 171k
article then declares—
I ft. That the (hips war and prirateers of
France may freely carry the Ihips and goods talen
jmm their enimiis into the ports of th« United
StatM, without being obliged to pay any fees to
the officers ®f the admiralty or any other judges.
dtf.
2d. That such prize* ire net to be inttt'd or
seized whe« they eViter the ports »f the U. States.
3d. That the officers of the Uni;ed Statt* fliali
not make any examination concerning tlie lawful
nefi such prizes : but
4th. That they may heist fail at any tine, and
depart and carry their prizes t« place* expressed
in their-camfoiifian*.
s th. That, on the caitrary, no fliclter oj refuge
(hall be given in the ports of the U ited States, to
such ts (hall have made prize of the fubjefts, peo
ple or property of France ; hut if such shall c»m«
in, being forced by fttefs »f weather or the danger
of the sea, all proper means (hall be vigoroufiy
used that they go ont and retire from thcnce as
foou as pefiible.
* Treaty of Alliance, Art. ».•
[Volume XI.
DOCUMENTSIt will also be convenient here to notice the
ftipulstioiis contained in the iad' article. These
are, -
I ft. That foreign prbvateeri not belonging to
French fuUjefts er citizens, having commiilions
from any other prince or state in enmity with
France, Jhall not fit their (hips in the ports of the
United States.
2d. Nor fell their p r izes, nor in any other man
per exchange their 'fiiips, merchandises, or any
other lading ;
3d. 'Nor purchase victuals, except such, as fhaU
be necessary for their going to the nearell port of
the prince or state from which they have commii
fions.
The cases that have accured in tlie course of the
present war in relation to our treaty with Franee,
particularly the t7th and 22d articles just mention
ed, have led to numerous difeuffions, 111 which
several points have been deliberately fettled either
by legislative or executive afis, or by judicial de
cifrons.
The firft important executive aft was the procla
matiou of neutrality by the Prefideut of the United
States. This was iftued on the 22d of April
*793-
At the next meeting of Congrcfs, on the 3d of
December 1793> the President laid thi3 proclama
tion before both Houses. The Senate, in their
addrefc, in answer to the President's speech, thus
cxprefs their opinion of the proclamation.
" We deemed it a measure well-timed, and wife:
" manifeftiig a watchful solicitude for the welfare
of the nation, and calculated ta promote it."
The address of the House of Representatives was
unanimoujly agreed We read in it this para
graph, " The United States having taken no part
•• in the war which had embraced, in Europe, the
" powers with whom they have the mod extensive
• " relations, the-maintenance of peace was justly
" to be regarded as one of the mod important du
" ties of the magistrate charged with the faithful
" execution of the laws. We accordingly witness,
" with approbation and pleasure, the vigilance
" with which you have guarded against an inter
" ruption of that blefiing, by your proclamation,
admonirtiing our citizens of the confequenees of
44 illicit or hostile acts towards the belligerent par
-4i ties ; and prqmoting, by a declaration »f the ex
" ifting legal state of things, an easier admrffion as
" our rtghr to the immunities belrkging to our
" situation."
Yet this is the instrument, thus approved by
Congress, and whose only object was to caution
our citizens to avoid certain acts which would violat?
the laws of nations, which Mr. Adet haß ventured
to call " an insidious proclamation of neutrality !"
The next executive a<ft noticed by Mr. Adet, is
the letter of the 4th of August 1793, written by
the President's command, by the Secretary of the
Tteafury, to the eolkdlors of the customs, and ac
companied by the rules which the President bad
- »dopted, for preventing all armaments in favor of
any of the belligerent powers. These rules were
considered as just and necessary deductions from
the laws of neutrality established and received among
nations. The letter from the Secretary «f the
' Trealury is explanatory of these rides, and'amsng
other inftru&iorts, particularly points the collectors
to the 17th and 22d articles,of our treaty with
Franac; left by inattention or mrfconception of
them, (he might be injured and her enemies bene
fitted. Fhe letter concludes with enjoining the
colle&or-s to execute those inftru&ions " withvigi
" lance, care, activity and impartiality"—" becatife
omissions would tend to expose the government
" to injurious imputations and suspicions, and
" proportionably to commit the good faith and
" peace of the country." How could such rules,
with fueh reasons to enforce them, not escape ces
fui*e ? They were framed and required to be exe
cuted with ftrift impartiality ; and confequentiy
were to prevent Frenchmen continuing thole ag
gressions on our sovereignty and neutrality, which
had been commenced under Mr. Genet's orders,
and which were calculated to involve us in a
war with Britain, Spain and for at
that time tbefe were all combined against France.
Frenchmen were to have n© other pi eferences than
those fecund to them ly treaty ; (except that they 1
were not forbidden to fell their lawful prizes in our j
ports) and our citizens were to be retrained from
committing hostilities under the banners of France,
as well as those of other powers.
The third ofTenfive aft was the President's sub
mitting to Congress these meafurcs, and fuggelting ;
the expediency of extending our legal code, "giving !
competent jurifdiftton to the courts, and provid
ing adequate penalties to prevent or puriifh viol'a
fions of the laws of nations.
The next complaint refpeftstheaft of Congress
pafied on the sth of June 1794, <• for the punilh- !
merit of certain crimes against the United States;" j
being those to which their attention had been ell
led by tire President's speech. Mr. Aoet aflcs, '
" What was its result !" and gives himl'elf the fol
lowing answer. " In eonfequence of this law,
the greater part of the French privateers have been
*» arretted, as well as their prizes 5 not upon formal
cepofitions, not upon established teftimeny, llot
Vupon a necessary body of proofs, but upon the
simple information of the consul of one of the
powers at war with the French republic, frequently
upon that of lailors of the enemy-power*, some
times according to the orders of the governors
but oflcn upon the demand of the diftrift attotnies'
who alTert upon principles avowed by the govern!
ment, that their conviction was fufficient to*aiitho
rizetbem, wiihout complaint or regular informa
tion, to caufs the privareers to l,e profecutcd in !
virtue of the law above mentioned."—Ani •• w |, en
. the ministers of the republic have asked for iuftice
of the government, for the vexations experienced
by the privateers, .in contempt of the 17th article
. l^ e lhe y kawc never been abie to ob-j
tain fatlgfa^lon. s,
Judging only by these declarations of Mr. A- !
det, a stranger would imagine there had been a
combination «f the general and state governments '
and of our courts, to harrafs and do i P juftice to
frenchmen engaged in privateering. But our
owfrcitizens place a diffe.ent eftimatc on this im
ptacliment of theie President, their fenaton and
reprefeiitiiti»es in tongrefs, their judges and other
public officers: at.d an examination of the cases
cited by Mr. Acfet to fiipport his afieitions will
manifell their incarreflnefs.
Fir(l"-cafe. The French privateer Sans Pareil
and her prize the Perfeveraniei
On the 26th August 1794 Mr. Fauchet com
plained that the prize bad been seized on the pre
text that the Sans Pareil had been illegally aimcii
in the United States. The answer of September
3d from the secretary of state, which Mr. Adet
censures " as indicative of delay," assured him
that the secretary had urged the governor of Rhode
Island, where the priz* was carried, ta report the
cireumftances of the cafe without delay. On the
27th of September, the secretary informed Mr.
Fauchet that the governor had decided that the
prize should be restored. On the 17th of Octo
ber Mr. Fauchet renewed his complaint, for on
the suit of the claimant the prize had again been
arretted by process from the diftrift court. The
secretary of state a*fwered on the Z2d, wiih ia
forniation that ought to have fatisiicd Mr. Fauchet.
For admitting that agreeably to the law of the
Jth °f June 1794, the courts had authority and
were bound in duty to take cognizance of captures
made wirhin the jimfdiftion of the United States,
or by privateers illegally fitted in their ports (the
right of doing which Mr. Fauuhet did notcontcft)
thcv could not refufe it in the cafe of the prize of
the Sans Pareil : the guard against vexatious pro
secutions being the j«Ht;ment for cofis and da
mages to which an urjnft prosecutor is exposed.
The circular letter written on this occasion to the
governors of the dates maaifcits the folicitudc of
our gavei nment to prevent vexatisus suits.
2dca/e. Glafsand Gfbbs
By the copy of the proceedings in the supreme
court of the Ujiited States, in this cafe, you will
fee that the court did not, as Rated by Mr. Adet,
determine, " That the tribunals could decide whe
" ther a prize belonged to enemies or to neutrals."
The queAion before the court was of the cogniz
ance of a captured vcflcl and cargo, the former tie
property of a Swede and the latter belonging part
ly to fame Swedes and partly to a citizen as the U
nitrdStates. The opinion therefore pronounced by
the supreme court applied to the cafe in which one
of the claimants was a citizen of the United States.
And after solemn argument, the court decided
" That the diftrift cesrt of Maryland had jtfrif
di&ion and should accordingly proceed to determine
upoo this cafe agreeably to law and right."
I will add only one more remark—That the 17th
article, the letter of which we are charged with vi
olating, in fuffering our courts t« take cognizance
of French prizes, exprefcly refers to " The (hips
arid goods taken from their enemiesarid it is the
" examination concerning tl.c lawfulnefs of such
prizes," which the article foibids. But ks exa
mination of such prizes has been attempted by our
government or tribunals, unlef3 on clear evidence,
or reafonaWle presumption, that the captures were
made in circumltanees, which amounted to a viola
tion of our sovereignty, and territorial rights.
3d. Cast. The French privateer L'Ami Je U
Point a Petre, Captain William Talbot, and her
Dutch prize, the Vrouw Christiana Magdalena.
To the information containtd in the papers col
le&ed iu this cafe. I have ta add, that this cause
was finally decrded in tha Supreme court iu Au
gust term 1795. The court were unaoiraoufly of
opinion that in the particular circamftances »f Tal
bot's cafe, netwithlianding his French commiflion,
and his taking an oath «f allegiance to the French
republic, he continued to be a citizen of the Uni
ted States, v But the cause, as I am informed, did
not appeaT to have turned on this point. Talbot
had afloriated with one Ballard, commanding an
armed veflel called the Ami de la Liberie, which had
been fitted out in the United States, and badnocsm
miffton. Talbot and Ballard cruized together as
consorts ; and in faa it was Ballard's vefTel that
took the prize; Talbot not coming up till an hour
after the capture. Ballard was aftepwards tried
before the Circuit court for piracy.
Ihe court were of opinion from the tenor of
the evidence, that (Talbot's velTel was owned by
citfzcns of the United States, to whom the prize
money would eventually find its way in cafe of res
titution to the captors.
Ballard and Talbot were both citizens of Virgi
nia. The attempt of the latter to become a French
citizen was considered to be fraudulent, being made
for thefole purpafe of obtaining a commission, un
der colour of which he might plunder the fubjefts
of nations with whom the United States were at
peace.
An observation ought not to be omitted here
That although the captors, Talbot and others, had
been defeated both in the drftrift and circuit courts
yet they carried the cause up to tlfe supreme
court.: thus using the legal right" of appealing to
the court in the lall resort ; a right which alike ex
ercised by rtie fubjefts of powers who were enemies
to France, has farmed a principal fubjeft of Mr,
Fauchet s and Mr. Adet's continued complaints.
4th. Under the head of complaints for vexati
ous prosecutions, Mr. Adet mentions only two ca
ses in which damages and interest were allowed to
the French raptors, viz, One of la Nuejlra Senora
del Carmen at Rhode-Island—and the other of !a
Princejfades -djiurias at New-York. " Yet (fays
he) the tribunals have aliuays allowed damages
" to the captured, when they have declared "the
" prizes illegal." How far the fails will warrant
this ialt afiertion, I am not pofTefTed of documents
to deter mure. I prefrsme it is to be underilood in
a general sense only, arid to admit of exceptions.
And in this sense there will be 110 difficulty in ad
mitting .the truth of the assertion and accounting
for it. The captures here referred ta were made
either within our jurifdiftional lin», or by illegal
privateers, being fueh as were equipped in whole
or in part in the ports of the United States. Of
these material facts, the faptors could nat be igno
rant : consequently they could have no apology for
defending their ut.juft claims in our courts ; and of
course, weie justly condemned in coils and dama
ges.
In the eift of the prizas of the printter the Citizen
of Merftille,, damages were elaimtd by the captors,
but denied. For those pcize» had been eonfidered in
the diftridi court to be illeg*J. And although the ice-
tenre of that court wae reversed in the circuit .court,
\et it was upon the introduflion of nrnu tejiimonj, on
the part of the captors. This la ft deciliou was affirm
ed in the supreme court, yet without damages; inas
much as the teftimouy was coniidered to befo ambigu
ous as ro juftify the appeal.
The fame remarks apply to the prizes of the priva
teer General La-veuux ; with this addition, that »ne of
the Judges dii Tented from the opinion of the coar.t, be
ing firmly of opinion that this privateer was covered
American property.
The privlteer the Parijienne has been reg'ftered at
an American coajling i>e/;el, under the name of the
Hawk. During tic embargo, in the fpriag of 1791,
(he flipped out or Charlefion and went to Port dt Paix>
where (he was fold to one Blechos, a Frenchman, who
armed her and provided her with a eommiffion. Hav
ing afterwards arrived at Charleston. (he was recognis
ed and pntf'ecuted for a breach of the revenue laws, in
haning gtne to a foreign port whilst (be was in the le
gal predicament of-a coajhr. 'I he diftri<s\ court con
demned her : but en the applicatian of Blochos to
have her restored on paying the appraised value, the
Judge permitted him to take her, in aJiatt of luarlik*
equipment. Shortly afterwards (he put to sea Jc captured
two valuable Britilh prizes, the brigantines Cnsfar and
FaveHte. On their arrival, the one at Charleston, the
other at Savannah, suits were •commenced to obtain
their reflitutio* > s having been captured by an illegal
privateer. The decrees of the courts were in favor
of the captors, but without damages. The supreme
court difopproved of the restitution of the privateer
without dismantling her ; and confidcred the mistake
committed in this refpedl a fufficient rtafon to cover
the party prosecuting from the payment of damagts.
All the other cases of captures by French privateers
which have been brought up to the fnprenne court
were deeided at last .Augtift term. In some of theon,
the circumstances would not have warranted an award
of damages, in others, the counsel for the captors omit
ted to ajk for them. —VVhen demanded, you know
that it is in the difcreti®n of the court to grant or refufe
them: thisdifcretion being: regulated by all the cir
cumftanccs of each cafe. Hence when a party is drawn
before the Court without good cause and vrxatieufly,
damages are always given ; but are denied when there
appears a reasonable cause ot controversy.
sth. Mr. Adet having briefly noitced several cases by
name, (Veins to reserve those of the Vengeance arid
Cafiius for a full display of unwarrantable condutft in
the Government and Courts of the United States, and
therefore descants on thcro at fonte length ; but with
so many aberrationsfiom the fa.6l#, with so many er
roneous ideas concerningourljurifprudence, and so ma
ny injurions infmuations refpefling our Courts and
their officers, it will be nccefiiry that you Ihould learn
the true history of tliefe cafcs from authentic docu-
ments,
Cu/e tf thi Frcnch privatetr La Vengttnce,
For the full hillory of thi# privateer and her
prize I mud refer yoa to the documents in the cafe.
The principal fails are these. About the latter
end of June, or beginning of July 1795, the pri
vateer La Vengeancejirrived at New-York with a
valuable Spanish prize called the Piincefia de las
Aftu rias, Don Diego Pintado the owner commen
ced a suit for his vefTel, on the ground that (he
had been taken by an illegal privateer. The
was inilituted by Mr. Troup, not wantonly, but
upon infoimation which was afterwards verified by
the oaths of several witnefles. In the prcgisfs of
thecaufe these witnefles were conuadifted by the
witnefles produced on behalf sf the captors, far
whom a decree was finally given ; the clafhiog e
vidence preponderating, in the judge's opinion, in
favor of the captors: but he expref»ly declared that
there was probable cause for the seizure. *
After this suit for the prize had been commen
ced, the Spanish Consul Complained to Mr. Hani
fou, the Diftrift Attorney, in his official capacity,
of a violation of law, on the part of the privateer
La Vengeance, in cenfequenceof which a Spanifn
fuhjeft had beep injured. Mr) Harrifon upon in
quiry found at lesft a probability that the complaint
refpefting the privateer was true. This probabi
lity arose from what he considered at affording the
certainly of materia/proaf : and, therefore, in c»n
formiiy with hi. official duly, rommencod a prose
cution on the aft of Congress forbidding the arm
in;* of privateers in our ports. The dccifion of
this and of the priee cause depended tiu the fame
evidence. The.decision being in favor of the cap
tors, Mr. Harrifon acquiesced in it as it refpe&cd
the privateer : and he united, with his affoclate coun
eil in the priie cause in ndvifing the like fubmifiion
in that cafe. But the Spauifn Consul deemed it
his duty to pursue the claim to the court in the last
resort' This can warrant no complaint : for Mr.
Ha rrifon remarks that perhaps there never were
causes in which more contradictory and irieconci
leable evidence was offered, and in wkich the minds
of the auditors were more divided as to tbc real
(late of facts.
The second public suit agaisll the privateer was
for exporting arms and ammunition fioin the Uni
ted Stales, when filch exportation was prohibited
bylaw. The evidence, which appeared in the e
thercaufes, gave rife te this prosecution : and ti
pon the trial the judge condemned the privateer.
An appeal from this sentence was iiitcrpofed by the
French Consul. The appeal was heard in thecir
cuit court : and upon new vvidenct the sentence of
the Diftrift Court was leverfed.
Mr. Adet complains, that vyhile one suit was
ptending for the prize, and another againtt the pri
vateer, the Diliri& Attorney should exhibit a fe
rond information against the privateer, on which
she was arretted anew, for having exported irms in
violation of a law of the United States, which was
in forie when the Vengeance failed fnpn New-
York : and that this information was filed.on the
simple declaration of Mr. Giles, the Marshal of the
Court, who at informer was to share part of the
confiscation. As Mr. Harrifon remaiks, it was
in favor of.the privateer, that this second informa
tion was filed white the jirji was pending ; because
it saved time. Had he postponed the Litter until
the firft had been decided might have been
some foundation for a charge of unnecefiary delay.
Mr. Harrifon's (late of the cafe shews that this se
cond information was not made on the declaration
of the Marlhal ; but on the evidence thai appealed
on the examination of the firft.
Mr. Adet having been pleased to eenfure the
conduct of the attorney, clerk and marshal of the
diftriQ court of NeW-York, in jitftice to tbcm, I
have added to theother documents in #iis cafe, the
letters of Mr. Harrifon arid Mr. Troup. They
will answer the double purpsfe of juftifying them,
and of vindicating eurgoTtrßracat and tribunals.
Mr. Adet particularly'notice* '!»? pipers he had
received from St. Domingo, " Proving (as hefayi)
" in the most convincing manner, that the Ven
'• pear [la Vengeance] had arrived at Poo de
" Paix without any armament or equipment what
" ever, and that (he had been fwld, armed and
" equipped wholly,and commiHioned as a privateer
" on the territory of the republic. These docit.,
" ments were certificates of the general, the Or
" donnateur,'and of the greater part of the prin.
cipal officers ef St. Darning®," &c—" He
" hastened to communicate to the secretary of
" ajid to requett him to order the attorney of
" New-York diftriA to ilay the proceedings in
" ftituted in the name of the government : there
" was nothiiig done with them, and Mr. Harri
" son continued his piofecmion." It will appnac
by my letter of October iU, 1795, t» Mr. Harrifon,
that thtfe pupers were sent to him, and by his an.
fwer of October 3d, that he received them. That
the bill of sale (one of the papers) was produced
to the court, in behalf of the claimant of the pri
vateer, but that the certificate of gencial Laveaus
could not be considered as evidence in the caife,
and if it had been admiflible, " the claimant would
" be very cautious of producing it, on account of
" its differing from the witnefTe.."
6lh. Cafe of the privateer Le Coffins.
For the full hillory of this cafe, I ifiuft also refer
you to the documents : and here only prefect yon
with a concise statement.
The Caffiu", under the name nf lei JumeauK,
was fitted and armed for a veflcl of wai in the port
of Philadelphia, in violation of a l»«r of the United
States. In December (794, having escaped from
the port to descend the river, orders were given t»
the militia of the state of Delaware to intercept her.
The attempt was made and failed—the crew of le»
Jumeaux, which was untxpc&edly found to he very
numerous, refilled the officers, who went on board,
manned their cannon, and brought them to bear
on the cutter in whi~h the militia (about 40 in
number) were embarked. Their force being in
adequate to the enterprise, they retired, with an
intention to return the next day with a reinforce,
merit. They did so : but le« Jumeaux had failed
and gone to sea. The agent, Mr. Guenet, by
whom les Jumeaux had been fitted out, was tried
in the circuit-court at Philadelphia, conridted of
the offcnce, and received sentence of fine and im
prifo:iment.
Les Jumeaux proceeded te St. Domingo. Sa
muel B. Davis, a citizen of the United States*
there took the command of her, with a eommif
fion from the French government. Davis proba
bly failed from Philadelphia in les Jumeaux for the
purpufe of finally taking the camm.ind of her..
Her name was new chaiiged to Le Caffius ; aud
on a crmze fee took a schooner called the William
Lindfay, belonging to Messrs. Yard and Kctland
of Philadelphia; Mr. Kctland having purchased
an interest in her after her failing. The schooner
and her cargo were condemned as prize at St. Do
mingo. In Augult 1795, capiain Davis, com
manding lc C .lliua, came with her to Philadelphia.
She wis immediately kiiewn. Mr. Yard, with a
view of obtaining an indemnification for the loss
•f the schooner and her cargo, libelled le Callius
in the diltri& court, and caused the captain to be
arretted. Soon after, the supreme court, being ia
session, captain Davis's counfrl applied for and ob
tained a prohibition to the diflri£t comt, to stop
its proceedings; by \r!iich thefuits bath againfl him
and leCaflius were defeated. The prohibition wag
granted on this principle ; tkit tJTe trial of prizes
taken withoutthe jurifdidlion of the United States,
and carried to place* within the jurisdiction of
France, for adjudication, by French veficls, and all
qucftions incidental to it, belong exclutively to ths
French tribunals : And confcquently. that its
of war and their officers are not liable to the pro
cess of our couits, predicated upon such capture
and fubfeqaent proceeding within the jurifdi&ioß
of the French government.
McfTrs. Yard and Ketland having failed to ob
tain an indemnification in this made, procured newr
proofs, on the informarionof Mr. Ketland, •« b<
issued from the ifccuit conrt by which le Caffius
was attached as a vefiel aimed and equipped agji,
ftip of war in the port of Philadelphia, with in
tent to cruize aad commit hostilities agaiiift nation*
with whom the Unitid States weie at peace; in
violation of the aft of congress prohibiting fucli
armaments. Mr. Adet complained that the proceh
was taken out of the circuit court, at he
alleged, it had no jurifdf&ion, and that it would
be attended with delay, that com.t fitting but twicc
a year ; whereas the diftrift court, in which it was
said the pr»lecution (if at all permitted) should
have been commenced, was always open. I con
futed gentlemen of legal knowledge an the point
of jurifJi&ion in this cafe, and they were decided
in their opinion that the circuit court had jurisdic
tion, and cxclufively »'f the diltrift court.' You
will fee also, in Mr. Rawlc's astement of this cafe,
that this opinion was adopted and supported by two
gentlemen of enineacc at the bar. You will fur
ther fee in that Itatenieat, 'that tfie government of
the United States had no part in originating thit
proiecution ; and that the diftrift attorney, in be
half of the United States, toek raeafures at each
term of the circuit court to prepare the canfe for
trial, and on a plea calculated td defeat the
cutioii. At length ia O&ober term, 1796, ths
cause was brought to a hearing. In the coiirfe of
the argument the cjueEHon of jurifdiHion prefeßted
itfelf. The court adjourned till the next day t*
consider of it, and on the following morning dif
mi fifed the suit. As soon as I had received notice
of this event (on the 19th of Qftober last,) I
wrote to Mr. Adet, informing that le Caffius re-,
maincd in the cuftady of' the roarfhall, bvt ready
to be deliveied to his order. To this no tnfwer/
was returned : but he mention* the matter in the
notes fubjoiaed to hit note of the ijth Horr«ber,
intimating thit the Unit<ii States were aolwerabie
in this cafe for a violation of Ueaties and for the
dwiiagcs the Caffius has sustained. Here the affair
' £Tb It««»((/,]
In Saturday s Gatettc the following waioitiit?
ted in th# quotation from Mr. Jefferfcm's Urter of 44th
July, the word enemy, read art fnt.
and the seois of an enemy, found in (bt vefel of a
on lawful frizt.&
m
m
'JPhtladelphij,
TUESDAY EVENING, JANUARY 24, 179 7,
A monartg paper informs that authentic advices
have been received from Capt. O'Brien of the U
nited State« bn'n Sophia, who was dispatched lafl
summer with money conferred by «ur government
ta the Dey of Algiers, informing that his veflel had
been captured by a Tunisian corsair, and carried
into one of the ports of that state—that representa
tions had been made to the Dey of Algiers on the
fubjeft who had fe it to demand reft! tut ion of the
money, and the head of the corsair who had com
mitted the hoftihty.
of a letter from Mr. John M.lrwin, dated
llava»nah, 28th December, 1796
" I am hippy to find that the Governor will not
permit the rtiip Golden Age, nor her cargo, to be
condemned here. The captors mean to write to His-
for condemnation. The prize-master hi» re
turned me the few dollart which were taken from mi
■when I was captured."
The following petition i> now circulating for sig
natures :
To the Senate and Httipc of Reprtfentalives of the
Freemen of the St/ite of Pennsylvania.
The Petition of the Subscribers, Inhabitants of the
City and Liberties of Philadelphia, refpedlfully
fheweth ;
THAT the praihee of difesunting negotiable notes
of hand and inland bills of exchange, at greater inte
refl than allowed by law, through the agency of a
broker, or third person, hath become too prevalent
in this city and its vicinity, to the great detriment of
mechanics and the industrious and honest trader.
That this practice is definitive to the niorals of the
people of capital, as it induces them to decline the
fair pursuits of honourable trade for the immediate
and great gain of ufury—lt introduces diflipation, and
denial of all honest loans at legal interest on bond and
mortgage, and thereby compels the neaeffitated to
resort t« their deftruilive avarice for a temporary re
lief, which too frequently terminates not onlyini the
ruin of the borrower, but also to the great detriment
cf the community, in general.
That the present existing law against usury hath
been found ineffeilual, in as much as through a third
perfoivln the negoclatien it has been eluded; and al
though this praflice would appear to be "indiredtly"
and within the meaning of the law, yet the judges
of supreme court have eonfldered it usury only in
the ioftances of buyer and drawer or indorfer, and
not in the third person, and that notes thus fold by the
third person were not within the law.
' Your petitioners therefore pray that a general law
may be pal Ted to remedy the evils complained of.
From the Aurora it appears that the party are
spelling very hard to get Mr. Madison appointed
envoy extraordinary to Paris. This would be beg
ging with a vengeance ; before we have heard of
the reception of one envoy to fend another, woatd
look indeed Hke " humble fupplicationt to the ter
rible republic."
For thf GAZETTE or thi UNITED STATES,
Mi FEN NO,
The old fan's of Pacifcui, on partv-fpirit, which ap
peared in the Gazette of Friday, would nnt_ merit a
comment, if their evident hvpocrify did not provoke
one- Hi thinks the bints and communications of the news
papers difgulfin>s; and advises, that writers ihould pro
ceed with "moderation" and abflain •'from all UNNE
CESSARY satire." the flat jnfipidity of these remarks,
would fecuie them from reply, if it >vefe not the ex
perienced artifice of the Jacobins, to preach moderation
and candor, whenever their attempts to enflame the
popular mind have milcarried, and the public indig
nation has turned, as it his always done when matters
are brought to a crisis, againfl themi'elves. After every
attempt to iroduce an infiirre.'lion againf> the treatv
that could be ma-lf by lies, expresses to Bolton, and
other 1 ities, midnight clubs, and conspiracies, and fo
reign c#>wns 'by thoul'ands, at last the people, the nat
people, who are probably the word to make fools of in
the whole world, fpokc their solemn voice in favor of
> t ] ien the. y cried moderation, candor, error of judg
ment, recommended harmony, and rung all the changes
upon their ten or twenty deceiving words When the
house palled their ever memorable unconftitutioual
vote about the treaty power, the Jacobin writers ei
toii'd the hou e. no doubt, for that very reason, and
flood forth the preachers of respect for one of the con
fli jilted authorities. It was, to be sure, rather answk-
Walrfl filiation lor them, as they abused the others al
most in the fame breath In a few days the hcufe
voted >11 favor of the treaty, and then the love of
d jcenry turnM again into rage and reproach
! hers is something ridiculouflv prndifli in some
men's notions, or at leaf! their talk about parties : as
it it conld not be that thcycxift, or, a* if a man ought
tofhut his eyes wheh they do, and swear that they do
not. In free countries, they ever did exifl, and ever
will. We have found some fools, indeed, who think
that nature is human on the other fide the Atlantic,
and angelic on this. There are fools beyond these, who
will hare it, than the people are more than men, and
the constituted authorities worlc than drvils, and for
this cause, they try their utmost to persuade the public
to difpofTefs these devils of their power, and place it
in the hands of the angels Nay, -there are son e who
go very far beyond this raivng ; and maintain, that all
this angelic chapter of their nonsense is proved by the
example of France. How much satire Pacifieus would
employ againfl this conceited race, without exceeding
the " nKeJfary" measure of moderation, I know not
l>ac'ificus may, if he likes, renounce wine, and fay,
there is intoxicating fpirtt enough in milk and water-
But to the point : Parties we have, and as it hap
pens in all countries, the division of classes and cha
racters is made exactly according to she nature of the
government- The better and freer that is, the more
furcly are the wicked, the immoderately ambitious and
the hot spirited dupes arrayed in close phalanx Againfl
if. The foul and bitter dregs of our society are the
parts that have kept it fermenting ever firtce it was
made ; and these dregs, including thefcum as well as
bottom of the great European calk, are lhaken and
ftirr'd up l>y the ambitious demagogues in our cities, as
-often as they fee fit. No wonder if the sweetest li
quor turns four by such overworking—no wonder
Pacifieus taflcsa little sharp vinegar ip the " hints" and
u communications > .
The truth of this division is undeniably obvious.
The men of virtue, property, learning, and character
are on one fide—on the fide of Washington, and the
Constitution. Their moral and political antipodes
are the fame.
This is not all: Foreign influence has leagued itfelf
with the disorganizing party How happens this ? the
reason is plain—there was a common interest. The
government (lands in the way sf both. It is the go
vernment that compels the payment of debts, and
therefore the " persecuted patriots," as they have been
impudently called, would get it into their own hands,
or cripple it in the hands of its real triends* It was
the government that prevented the nation from being
dragged iuto a war with and therefore our
di fan pointed Foreign " friend* and allies" would wish to
fee • s offices in the enlto'ly of their crealurei ai d de-
pendents. Then tbe republic, as F%ichet favs, even
without a fttiv Hj'jujunds of dollars, decide on zuJr or peace.
To promote these mutual views, much been
done at home and abroad. Base Americans, at Pari.,
have intrigued against their country! Base allocates
here have ailifled in the work ! Here they have tried
to weaken and to discredit the government, to stir up
the people, and to turn their affei 1 ! oils-from America 1
to France. lit Francc, they have no doubt, made it be
believed, that a certain course of meal'ure», firft bv
threats, and then by depredations on our trade, would
raiic up their party here, and overthrow the federa
catife and its supporters. This very fyft#.n is now
going oil, and every newspaper has a lift of vefiels cap
| tured in consequence ot the connection between our
Democrats and the French It is owing to their in
trigues, to their encouragement at the French, to their
assurances ten thousand times printed and reprinted,
that we have wrong'd them and expert their refvit-
Tnent, that we curse our own government, and hlrfs the
rod of chaQifement whilethey (hake it over our heads;
it is owing to this, as well as to the urgent need the
French have to plunder the ocean as well as the land,
that our trade now fufFers.
If Pacilicus is no Democrat, he will fee that their
fanitical and (lupid party-cant about the Frcnch cause,
and our love lor it, &c Ac. (more than five hundred
folios would contain) has produced all this embarrafl
ment. The Demo,-rats have succeeded to make the
French believe that they were as ftroag here as our
government, and much fironger in the affe&ions of the
people. G«vernment has no armies, nor treasures, ner
clubs, nor hireling writers, nor petitioned newspapers;
andfliallnnt its iriends and the friends, of virtue Attempt
to engage the warm and honed public Feelings in its sup
port ? If I'aciScus is no Democrat, will Ke not allow
that some thing more than calm insipidity is becoming,
when thefeFrench outrages are juftified after having'oeen
invited ? When one newspaper, known to be hired,
speaks of our Loyalty to France, another cenlurcs our
REBELLIOUS spirit towards that nation j when we
daily read that these captures are good enough fur us,
that we have " provoked" and extorted it from the mild,
humane, just arid terrible republic ; that thejlrltgunfired
ag.iinjl France ivill be our ruin. Infamies of this fort have
been multiplied and aggravated b«yond credibility, and
almost beyond patience. Probably in any other country,
and mod certainly in France, the printers of these abo
minations would be kick'd, if not baftiled.
Neither ot thele chatHlernents is approved or recom
mended The liberty of the press. thus outrageously
abused, affords antidotes as well as poisons. Thcaerimt
nious and virulent paragraphs, as Paeificus calls them, are
the inevitable and the salutary effufions of the general
indignation. There is occaliim for more than a tame
" djfplay of principtti" which Pacificus thinks the only
proper use of the press These are already known and
refpedted by our country, and despised and trampled
on by Fiance and the Democrats, The breach ol the
Treaty is even avowed by her mini Iter, and its disad
vantages are pleaded in excuse for the perlidy. How
lung will Pacificus fay it is proper for a man to Hand
reafnmrg on "principles," after he has beencudjelled ?
The proper appeal is to the spirit and insulted liWiour
of the Americans, to the men who res edl its indepen
dence and conftitutcd authorities. Those who give
leads to the patriotic Democrats in foreign uniform, who
reverse our flag, and who hear the orders to make wsr
upon it, will become, through the newfpapers,the pub
lic scorn. They will be gibbctted in print. They will
know that they are no less despised than contemptible,
and it they lhould not reform their principles, which
no one will expesft they will be deterred by the public
sentiment from a trai terous perfcvcrance In t heir schemes,
A foreign nation may also then learn that their flan hat
! failed, an i instead of dividing cur eitizens by their in
trigue*, that they are united to one another and to their
ovfi government by a common sentiment of duty and
indignation. This's better than a war, from which Rod
preserve us. Nothing however is so likely to involve u»
in its hotrors as the fuccelit ot the Democrats to con
vince their allies that they may go oil capturing our
veflel6; not only without provoking refcfitment or re
prisal, but with the joyful approbation of the mas« of
our people.
From the Baltimore Telegraphs
Meftrs. Clayland, Dobbin Sc Co,
I have just been presented with the enclosed letters,
and fend y"U a copy, (the original* are in the hand;
of Mr James Calheun.) in order to make it known,
that, however faithfully I may execute the orders of
the government ef France whole (hips I have the hon
or to command j yet my private interefi has nat the
lealt weighi in my conuixSV. Captain L'l veille has the
fame right and permission to take American velTels com
ing f.-om a British port, as any other vefiel of war, yet
"he confines himfelf to Hopping and seizing only tha
enemies of his nation- Much has been said lately, in
certain New-York and Philadelphia papers of insults,
piraces, robberies, &c. &c. &c.—the whole of which
I regard 3s the venom of a party in this country', who
never dared to (hew their faces in the gl»riolus revolu
tion of 1776, the greatelt part of whom were a&ually
fighting againfl America—burning their towp.s, poison
ing their citizens ia the prison of New-York, fuffoca
ting 11,000 seamen, ori board the Jersey, and other
prison ihips, employing the savage Indiana to scalp
their wives and children, and burn their property —
who afterwards, had tiie impudent* to return to Ame
rica, and to bring with them the hords which we fee
daily in al public places—who have fpeenlated and de
prived 'he poor officers and foldiersof the only proper
ty which was in the power of government to give
These men, or rather the true robbers and pi
rates, now wish to dilate and make laws to govern the
freemen, who gave liberty and independence to Ame
rica ; they are truly beneath the notice of a Kepubli
can—l can only ebiirrre, that time will Ihortly provt,
" that, like the drowning man, they are catching it
ftrawt."
Your's &*.
Baltimore, Jan. ao.
Charlejlon, Jan. 3, 1797.
James Calboun, Esq.
Sir,
A French armed veflel, Called the Vengeance,
took from on board a vessel of our't, coming from
Jamaica, a hogrtiead of Jamaica rum, and gate the
captain an order upon a Mr. — ,of your place
to pay the amount, (on account of capt. Barney)
to whom he likewise addrefTed the within letter u
pon that fubjeA. You will particularly oblige us
by receiving the fame, and remitting it to u» by a
ny opportunity that may offer, &c.
(Signed) W. &. E. CRAF'FTS.
Jit Sta, 11th Deembtr 1796.
Sir,
Having met the schooner Sally, bound to Charles
ton, captain John Leich, who had on board sever
al hogflieadi of rum, and finding myfelfin want, I
took witW the cehfent ef the captain, one hogfliead
containing 109 gallons, which I pray you to'pay
for, at the price of the market, and place it to the
account of capt' Bar»ey,niy owner.
I have the honor to be
Your humble fevvant,
(Sigiied) L'EVEILLE.
, Merchant, Baltimore
Mr.
JOSHUA BARNBY.
Brigadier-General in
the service of France.
By this day's Mail.
NORFOLK, January 14.
TharfJay arrived here the (hip Martin, captain
Nath. Colley, from London via Lymington, 75
days. By thTa- veflel we learn, that the dreadful
weather on our eoaft must have caused the deftrnc
tian of some veflels, as they have fallen in with dif
ferent pieces sf wrecks during the fix weeks the
above veflel has been on the coast.
Dec. 10, in lat. 36, 18, long. 6), spoke the (hip
Fidelity, capt. Wheems, 11 weeks out from Ham
burg hound to Baltimore. Capt. W. had met
with many heavy gales of wind, in which he hail
loft his beats and every thing off the dcck, his
beams all broke, and one hand walbed overboard,
he was obliged to bear away for the Weft-indics,
being in want of water and provisions.
Dec. 31, in lat. 33, 57, long. 66, spoke the (hip
Criterion, capt. Johnson, from Amsterdam to Phi
ladelpaia, out seven weeks, with 200 paflengerson
board.
Dec. 13, in lat. 34, 32, long. 68, spoke the ftiip
Lydia, capt. Todd, out 27 days from Charleston
bound to Baltimore ; had loft theirboats, and wsre
in want of every kind of proviliona ; he was bear
ing away for Chark-ftan or the Weft-Indies. Capt.
Colley supplied hira with cheese and porter.
Jan. 2, in lat. 34,40, long. 70, spoke the brig
Industry, capt. RiafTell, of Philadelphia, 94 days
out from St. Übes, in great diitrefs, having neither
water nor provifiuns on board ; had buried one man
and bad two more likely through fatigue and
hunger ; had one pump continually going ; he was
bearing away for Bermuda. Capt. Colley supplied
Uim with cheese and porter.
Capt. Makim, of the (hip Andrew of Philadel
phia, was paffenirer in the above brig, having left
his (hip at St. Übes. Capt. M. informs that 14
days bef®re, they had fallen in with the (hip Eli
zabeth of York, capt. Wilson, 45 days out from
Jamaica for Norfolk ; had loft all fails, waa then
under reef forefail and mizen. Had spoke also
threa other vessels, beating away for the Weft-In
dies.
Jan 4, in lat. 34, 20, long. 70, fpokt the schoo
ner Harriet, capt. Godwin, of and for Button fiom
St. Croix, out 28 days.
Jan. 7, in lat. 35, long. 70, spoke the schooner
Atlantic, of and hound to N«w-Yovk, out 42 days
from the ]3ay of Honduras, in great distress for
provisions ; supplied him with chtefe and porter.
S*me day spoke the fchoener Minerva, captain
Perkim, out 24 days fiom Antigua for Norfolk.
War with Spain was declared at Lymington the
day, the Martin failed.
Captain Calley, and paffifngcrs in the Martin,
would deem it highly ungrateful were they not thus
publiely to acknowledge the extVeme potitenefs and
assistance they received from Capt. Johnson of the
ship Criterion of Philadelphia ; he having laid too
in a hfavy gale for two days and a night, to rendct
any affillance in his power, and furniihed them with
provisions of various kinds, of which they (toed
molt in need. This obligation is ihe more felt,
from the confideratiOM of great number of paffcn
gers on board-,
Thru ft! ay 'arrived the ship Fortitude, captain
Dyer, 87 days from Cailir., in distress. A lift of
.Americans left there fliall be given in our next.
Captain lairdiild, of the brig Diana, arrived
here on Thursday, 18 days from Bermuda, spoke
(goinjj ihere) the Fredi rickfeurg packet, captain
Richatdfnn, of Philadelphia, from Malaga to Bal
timore, blown off t.lve coallj had 101 l her fails and
damaged part of her eatgo.
Captain William Lovell, of the ship Felicity, of
Boftun (new in the Roads) on December 24, in
lat. 37, 51, long. 68, 30, spoke the ship Sally of
Narwich, captain J. Smith, from Anguilla to New
London, out 5# days, with only fix days provilion
on beard, and wjs running for the Wett-lndies ;
it blowing so heavy ami so much sea, coold not
render him any afliftimce.
Thursday arrived the schooner Phcebe, captain
Webb, 37 days from the Mole. Captain Webb
whs taken on his pafi'age from New-London ta
Jcremie, and carried to Petit Guave, where he was
detained 90 days, the greatefl part of his cargo
taksn without trial: they even refuted giving a re
ceipt for w'flat property they took, and the cona
miffarfcs refufed provisions to subsist his lick people.
FotJr Spamfli prizes were earned into the Male
before thfc Phcebe failed.
Vtjfels arrived at Petit Cuavi to pttrehafe cargoes.
Sloop Delight, Warner, of New-York ; schoon
er Sally, Courfel, of Baltimore ; schooner ,
Pool, of Philadelphia ; fchoencr Angelica, How.
ard, do.
Vrjftls carried in there at prizes.
Brig Naney, Webb, of New-Lond«n ; schooner
Hope, Jacocks (dead) of Philadelphia ; brig Pol
ly, Waifon (aband»ned) of ; brig Nymph,
Sullivan (dead) of ditto ; brig Clio, Ball, of Bal
timore j sloop Lead, Warner, of Cape Ann;
schooner , Cockrin, of Boston.
Thursday arrived the (loop Polly, captain Wil
lis, 37 days fiom the Mole; captain Willis was
taken by the brigands, but a breeze of wind favored
his escape in the Mole, where he purchased two
4 pounders to proted himfclf.
Sailed in company with the flo*p Thomas and
Sally, Allen, for Norfolk ; the fchooaer Zephyr,
Hamford, for ditto ; (afterward* taken, carried
into Jean Rebel, and condemned.) Schooner
Lark, Hand, for Charleston, (taken and con
demned at fame time and place.)
December 26, in lat. 29, long. 73, spoke the
brig Clinton, Nurri*, of Providence, R. 1. 16 day*
out from Surinam to Ckarlcfloa.
NORWICH, Jan. 19.
VIOLENT t THUNDER STORM.
From Nantucket.
We learn that one of the most severe thundcr-ftorms
attended with very iharp lightning. was experienced
at that place, than was ever .known there before, on
the uight of the ift instant; tw* barns were set On fire
by the lightting and entirely confunsed, together with
14 head eattle and a quantity of hay, grain, &c.
which was in the baras; confiderakle other damage
was doncv
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations*
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
Mr. FENNELL **
ReTpmafully informs the Public, that
THIS EVENING, Tuesday, Jam 14, at 7 o'clock,
Will be delivered,
(first part)
Bnuty and other pleasures of Tiftei
On the Means of Improvement in Taste, including
feleAions from Dr. Blair.
(second part)
The Choice of Hercules, or
The Triumph of Virtue,
(third ?art)
Ode to Truth,
Satrn's Address to the Sun,
Ode to Madness,
Tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfon, jttn. at the Library j
atmr. M'Elwee's looking-gMs-ftore, No. 70, S. Fourth
ftreet; and at Mr. Carey's, Bookseller, Market-street—
Half a dollar each.
Admifiion tickets for ChiMren (a quarter of x
dollar each) to be had at either of the above places.
New-Theatre.
The Managers refpeftfolly inform the public, that
«■ account of the extenfi*e preparations for the Hi£-
torical Play of COLUMBUS, or A WORLD DIS
COVERED, there wil be no performance at the New
Theatre until Monday the 30th inft. when the above
piece will be produced, with new Scenery, Machine
ry, Drefles and Dccorationi.
January 14
All Pcrfons having Demands
Against the Estate of the late Thomas Fraaklia,
deceased, are dc&retl to bring in their accounts fat
settlement; and those indebted to make immediate 1
payment, to ISRAEL PLEASANTS, v *
WALTER FRANKLIN, or 5- , c ""
SAMUEL R. FRANKLIN, J
January 14th, 1756.
This Day is Publilhed,
Br 810 REN vo MA DAN,
And to be 3<;!d at their Printing-Office, in Dock*
street ; by M. Carey, No. 11S, Merkft-ftreet ;
Thomas Bradford, N». t, South Front-street, and
Georg« Douglaft, No. i, Ssuth Third-ftrect,
(Price, neatly bound, two dollars
AN ENQUIRY
Concerning Political Justice,
And its Influence on Morals and Happiness,
By William Godwin.
THE reputation of this work is already well esta
blished in Europe—lt is hardly neceflary for an Ame
rican editor to fay more than barely to mentian, that
the Enquiry concerning Politieal Juftiee has ever
since its publication been a favorite performance with
the friends of republican government. The fti'e ia
pure, nervo'M, and claflical; the ideas are strongly
marked by ah original vein of thinking ; and, among®
a ijipltitude of other just and striking pafiage*, the
author's delineation of the peculiar infelicities insepa
rable from the condition of a King, may be pointed
out as a specimen of philofbphical dit
quifition. I«Wateft London edition of this work
fells in thi« city at four dollars and an half.
January *4
This Day is Publiflied,
Porcupine's
POLITICAL CENSOR,
Fty December, '796.
CONTAINING
Remarks on the Debates in Cotigrefs, particularly
on the timidity discovered by the House of Reprefen
tativfs in their language toward* the inf«ient French.
A LiTTSR to the infamtvs Ton Pains,
In tmfwer to his brutal attack on the chandler and
condurft of General Washington.
January 14. ,
Hibernian Society.
Such of ths Members of this faeiety as are entitled M
Diplomas, »r« requelttd to apply for tJiem t* -
Mr. Hugh Holmes, Vice Prrftitnt;
Mr. David M'Csrmiei, Treasurer ;
Mr. Robert H. Drinker, LcunJtiler ;
Mr. Jojeph Brown ;
Mr. Edward Fox ;
«■ Or to MATHEW CAREY, Sec.
Philad. Jan. *i, 1797. taw6t
Particular Teneriffe Wine.
SO Quarter-calks Particular Teneriffi WINE,
Of a superior quality.
For Sale by
z ji. Mar pit Iff IfrcKlWMorris,,
No. 60, Dock-street.
tt«6
January i»
FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, Narlb Stc»nd Street.
Imperial } rHyfon Skin.
Hyson, S Frefc T<»». } Souchong,
Young Hyfajn, J (.Bohcz
) * c - 9* 3«aw3m.
FOR SALE,
About i ,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marsh
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
fo\ar ftparMf Patents. For terms ot sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
Na. 64, South Srcoßd-iirtet
mwftf
Oilober 31.
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
Ne. 3, Souti FourthJlnety
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement
and begs leave to solicit a continuance of their favors. *
He has on hand an extensive affortmery: of the
Mo ft Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the bed quality, suitable for the fcafon.
At this Ihop Gentlemen can be furniflied with the
materials, and have them made up in the neatest and most
Falhionable manner, and en the lhort«ft notice. He will
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
pun&ual attention; to them.
November la.
\Lo'.utb
Ma/an
Milton
Ptnroji
eoaw
djtawaw
ALSO,Samuel Richardet
TJ ESPECTFULLY (informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia;
The Subscription Room will be with all the
daily papers publHked in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with thole of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, IceCreams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefkments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depciid on being accommodated with
thechciceft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mod
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
produ&ions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Sappers, at
hours most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
regularly k«pt for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
at the bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furniflipd, a»d
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite. \
$5* S\MpEL Rich ardet will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing 011 his part lhall be wanting fro pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguifh
ingly /lonored.
Philadelphia, April 19
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber on the 13d O&ober,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 21 years
old j about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mixed green
■coat, with a green velvet cape, and oval yellow buttons;
a striped veil ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is probablehe may change
his name and dress. He has been accustomed ta driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for'fecuring him so that the fubferiber may get him
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
Robins Chamberlaine.
Eafton. Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 Jimiawtf
Horses taken in,
For the Winter Sea/on,
And fed on clover hay at the Subscribers place, 12
ttiles on the Bristol Road, where good (tabling is pro
vided, and great care will be taken of them
William Bell.
-Nov. 23.
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his profeflionfcl friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
Union, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and ready for Sale, from a single volvme t» an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, which forfeveral years paA have in so difiinguifhed a
manner recommended them'to notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the most ex ten five collec
tion cf the latest English and Irish Editions ever imported
into this country, are pablilhcd, and will be delivered gratis
on application.
s Orders addrtfled to G. D. in writing from any distance
(hall be punctually attended to.
A number of TRUNKS for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
Aconvepient LOFT, near Market Sweet Wharf.
ov -8. ttf&fy
City cf Walhington.
SCHEME of the LOTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t TH&
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & >
3welling-houfe, 5 caih 30,000, ire 5 ■5 0 ' 00 ®
I ditto, 15,009 & cadi 15,000 40,009
I ditto 15,000 & ca(h 15,000 30,000
1 ditto iC,ooo & calh 10,000 20,000
I ditto 5,000 & ca(h 5,000 10,000
I ditto 5,000 & cafe 5,000 10,000
I tafti prize of 10,000
a do, ■ 5,000 each, are • Jo,ooo
10 do. . i,®oo - - 10,000
40 do. 500 - • 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,00 a
»oo do. 50 10,000
400 do. 35 » - 10,000
1,000 do. 20 - 20,000
15,000 do. 10 - »5«^oo
*6>739 Prizes.
J3.201 Blanks.
So,ooo Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,00s
N. B. To Tsvour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the la it drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be reoeived/or
any number not lef» than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ere&edin the City of Wafhingto*—
Two beautiful designs are already (elecled for the entire
fronts on two'of the public fquarcs; from these prawings
it ispropofed to erect two centreanH fourcorner buildings,
as foqn as poflibl® after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the rnjnner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
the necessary expenses of printing, the surplus
will be made a part of the fundintended for the National
Univerlity, to be ere<9.e<fwithin the city of Wafhi&gton.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
eld off.— The money prizes will be payable io thirty days
after it is iinifhed; and any prizej for which fortunate
numbers axe not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is closed, are to be confidared as given towards
the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole bufinefa in a jearfrom the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount ot the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commiflioners a (filled in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous taflc
second time 011 behalf of the public ; a fufficient num
.*;r of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
iends to a National Uni-erfity and the other federal ob
je&s may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the diOerent parti of the
.Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been f<nt for sale, the public are j (lured that the
drawing will speedily commence, awl that th« cart and
eatition unavoidably neceflafy to insure a fafe disposal of
ths tickets, has rendered the ftior' suspension indifpenlable.
SAMUEL bLODGET.
Tieketsraay be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilman, BoAon ;
cf John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wills
«oeper'» Ferry. «o
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A valuable SOAP and CANDLE M»t>uf*£tor.y, firtialc
in a convenient part of thfc city ; the works almost new,
on an entirely original cotuhu&ion, and built of the best
materials, and may be fpt to immediately. Persons
whowilhto purchase, are requeued to apply at No 273,
Second Street. September 13. t t f rf
WHEREAS very hrge and heavy dehts are justly
due and owing from mefl'rs. Blair M'Clenaeban and
Patrick Maore, of the city of PhiladelphU, merchants,
trading under the irm of Blair M'Clenaeban and P.
Moure, and from Blair M'Clenaeban in his fepfarate
capacity ; to which, by the laws of the land, all the
joint as well as fcparate property of the /aid Gentle
men, is, and ought to be, liable. And whereas
it i« clearly tnd fatisfaflorily ascertained, that mr.
Blair M'Clenacban, of the fsid firm, has conveyed
away to mr. Job« H. HuJlon, his foil-in Uw, to his
daughter, miss M'Clenacban, and to his son, George
M'Clenacban, ftveral .large ard valuable real eflates,
as well as »oufiderable perioral property, in the city
and county of Philadelphia, in the county of LGncaf
ter, in the. county of New-Callle on Delaware, and
elfcwhere, with a view, as it is apprehended, to de-.
feat the Creditors in the recovery of their just debts.—
This is, therefore, to forewarn all persons whomfb
ever, agsinft the purehafe from the said grantees, or
either *f them, of any portion ef the said real or per
sonal pr«perty, as the molt vigorous measures will
witheut delay be taken to render the fame liable to
the ji»(t demauds of the Creditors.
mwf
By order of the Creditors.
Thornaj Fitz/lmons,
Philip Nicklin, /
Jfanc Vharton, >- Committee.
Wiiliam M'Mvrtrie, I
Samuel W. Fijber, J
Philadelphia, December 17th, 1796. joth.J
THE caution introduced into the public prints,
warning all perfoiy. aga.ii-ft purchasing from the
grantees of Blair M'Clenachan, any portion of the
largej real ani personal efiatcs he conveyed to
his fon-in law and to his children was the result of
a deliberation had upan the fubjeft by a general and
numerous meeting of the creditors as well of Blair
M'Clenachan and P. Moore as of Blair M'Clena
chan individually. It was no more than an execu
tion of that trust confided in the fubferibers by
those creditors: a step which it would have been a
breach of duty and honor in them to have omitt*<l.
The very statement of the fait therefore mult dis
pel the imputation that it was either " precipitate
•r vindi&ive." It originated in a desire to secure
the property of the debtor as a fund for the pay
ment of his just debts. It was fanfilioned by the
adviee of council as a measure ncccjfary to the fafety
of the creditors. If the advertisement ha 4 been
injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
to his own unjnftiliable condutt, not to the fub
feribers who have merely published the truth in
terms aa mild as the fa£t would admit, and who
mean to invettigate in a high court of justice the
validity as those purchases of which Mr. M'Cle
nachan so confidently speaks.
The fubferibers therefore are bound by a feofe
of duty to the creditors in general to repeat their
caution agai»ft purohaGng of those grantees or
eithjtref them, and to extend the terms of it te a
porchafe from any other persons (if fuck there be)
to wbem Mr. M'Clenachan may have madt similar
eanveyanoej.
mwf2wmtht-f.
(Signed) T. FITZSIMONS,
Phflad. Dee. 21, 1796.
Tho& printers who have been requested to
fßblrfe the firft Caution, are desired to publish tliij also
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
A new method of keeping Bill Books,
Adapted for the ease and convenience ctf merchants
in general ; but particu!arly~for those who are ex
ftenfively concerned in trade: exhibiting at one
view, all the bills which a merchant may have to
receive or pay, in the course of the whole year,
for each month feparatively. And thereby pre
venting the trouble and inconvenience attendant on
the mode n®w in use, of feleding the bills due in
each month from the promifeuous entries of fevcral
months.
To which it prefixed,
At able {hewing the number of days from any day
any month, to the fame day in any other month.
Philadelphia, printed for and fold by R. CAMP
BELL & Co.
Janaarv ?
Washington Canal Lottery,
No. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Waihington, fro*i th Po
tomacto theEaftero Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. J.
Viz -.j Prize of 10,000 dollars, 10,000
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7 last drawn )
Tickets,eaeh J J'' 00 "
6 ditto 1,000
10 ditto 400
ao ditto 100
55 ditto jo
57.50 ditto la
To be raised for th« Canal,
5850 Prizes,
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
I7JOO Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
gj - The Cemmiflioners haye taken the Securities re
quired by the aforelaid aft for the punftuaj payment ot
the piizcjs.
rhe drawing ef tlus Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timeh
notice will be given.
Such prize, as we not demanded in fix months after th<
drawing is fmifted, (hall be considered as relinquiftcd for
the benefit ©f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, of D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M. DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
Cit of Waflupgtoii, Feb. it. 5
CAUTION.
TO THE i'UBLIC,
P. NICKLIN,
ISAAC WHARTON,
WILLIAM M'MURTRIE,
SAMUEL W. FISHER.
i75»0c0
Refpsfifully informs her friends, and the public in
general, that on Tuesday (he ieth day of January,
Die propofcs opening, at No. 39, North Sixth
ftreet,
A Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
B»ok Vtuflins, from 6/3 to ia/u per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/°8 to 5/8 par yard
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to ic/io per yard
Fi»e GolFaes
1 amboar'4 Book Muslins, from 13/9 to 21/"per yard
India Muslin, from 11/3 to 15/ per yard
Sheeting Muslin
Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, frot» 4/3 to 6/ per hdkf.
Book muslin Handkerchiefs from s/i to 10 /6 per hdkf.
Muslin color'd and border'd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchiefs
Tambour'd Cravats from icf& to 1/11
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/3 to 16/3 per yard
Table Cloths
HuckabuckTowelling
Women's Cotton Hose, from 67% to 13/ per pair
Dimity from 5/10 to 6/n
Men's Silk Hose
Tambour'd muslin Handkarchiefs from ii/it,to I
Irifli linens for Gentleir en's Shirts, from Sj"s to 9/7
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, &c. &c.
Houfiiold Linen, &c. &e.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 3 I-z dollars.
A full rufflsd ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and marie'd, j dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 6 dollars.
A plain fliirt, made and marked, 5 1-2 dollars.
A All ruffled ditte 7 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 j-2.
A plaia shirt, made and mark'd, 6 i-2 dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Linen included,
January ij. 5
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. oi,
NOR TH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
Difte Salmon, by the doxen or Dngle one
Dry Codfifh, from ope to fifty kentals
Fine and eearfe Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the stone
and ground, for manure and stucco-work
December 1.
A Quantity of Brandv,
FIRST & id proof,
Gin, of 4th preof, in pipe«
Jamaioa Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in crfes of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes# of different lizes
Hazlenuts, in fatks
Whiting
Copperas f . ...
WhfceLead f mhhd '
k Spanifli Brown J
For Sale by ~
January 4
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE and PRICE,
No. 79, Market-street,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, a large affottment ®f IVA RRA NT E D
WA t' CHE S, eenfifting of horizontal, capp'd and
jewei'd Gold Watches, with fecoßds, of superior
workmanihip and elegante ; llfo capp'd and jewei'd
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd &jeweH'd, capp'd,
leconds, day of the month, and plain Silver Wa.tches ;
eight day & clumber Clocks; elegant French Clocks
with marble framas ; eigjit day and thirty honr, brass
works, &c.
Decembet »», 1796,
A PLANTATION, in thetowri of Woodbury, coun
ty of Gioucefter, and Hate of New-J«ifey, contain
ing about one hundred and fifty acres j a fnitable jiropor
tiun of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
great part of the arable land is in a high stale of cultiva
tion, and very natural to the prodn&ion »f Red Clover.
On said plantation there is a genteel two-story brick house,
with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
the whole ; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage
houfe. The garden is large, and contains a good collec
tiou of the belt kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees;
the orchard coniifts of about three hundred grafted apple
trees. Any person inclined to pxrchale said prenules, may
be informed of the terms by applying to
July t()
tawtf
Riding School, Horse Academy Infirmary,
Adjoinin-g the Public Square. Market iiireet.
RETURNS his sincere thanks tothofe gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, during his residence tn this City, and
flutters Kimfelt that the faccefi; of his efforts, in the numerous,
obliinate and dangerous diseases in Horses, in which he has
been cnnfulted, together with his moderaie chargct, will fe
ure their futurcfavjrs and recommendation.
He iiiiw begs leave to inform them and the public at hr<-e
that his lpacious and commodious premises, elected for the
purposes above described arc Gfjea for the reception of pupils
of either lex, who wilhto beinflruited in the Art of Hiding,
and the light method of governing their horses, so as to ride
them with ease, elegance, and fafety—rtieir horses will be
carefully and cxpeditioufly broke, for every purpose, land
made obedient tot he will of the riders ; the natural powers
which are shut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniiormity of motion, and giving to that iioble animal
aH thofc beauties of adion which providence has so bounti-'
fully beAowed on them.
35.000
6,000
4,000
3,000
1.7J0
69,008
16,1.50
AHo, at his hospital, every difortier to which the horse is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the above institution has never been qncftion
erf, that it has long been wanted in this city, gentleman's
flud will manifeft, arid T. Swann as the fiift of
the veterenaryart, solicits a«d relies upon ihe fuppouoftha
public (which he is ever anxious in serving) co enable him to
bring it to perfection. The idea of a fubfeription for that
purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who wish to
promote the institution— the amount of each fubfeription to
be returned bv Services in any of the departments he orofeffes,
agreeable to the rate of charges stated in his hand bill. Such
• fubfeription is now open, and the signatures of many refpeft
able gentlemen already obtained. He therefore injorms his
friends and such Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he shall in a few days take
the liberty of waiting upon them and fobeking their support
and protc&ion.
N B. Hoi fes ars properly prepared for those Laditsand
Gfinlcmenwho wiCh to be inftrufted.
Nov. ft
Mas. G RAT TAN
PBTER BLIGHT.
«
TO BE SOLD,
ANDREW HUNTER,
SWAN N'S /
T. SWANN
Treasury Department,
September 28, 179 6.
NOTICE is hereby gfyen, that projpofals will he re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Tr aalu. r
until the expiration of the firft day of March ne xt en,
filing, for the supply of all rations which may he re cjuued
for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1708, both
days inclusive, at the places and within the diftri&s here
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara ;at
Pjefque- lfle; at Sanduflcy Lake, and on Sandufky
RWer; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hmulton ;
at Fort Si. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfon ; at Grcnville; at
Picquc Town and Loramics Store ; at Fort Acams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiaf.ce ; at any pkee below Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Erie; at Fort
Steuben ; at Fort MaUac ; at any place from Fort Maflar.
to the south boundary of the United States on the river
Miflifippi ; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
It (upplies fliaH be required for any posts or places not
mentioned m this notice, all such supplies ftali be fur
milied at prices proportioned to thoie to be paid at the
ports before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States ami the Contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to ccnftft of the soU
lowing articles, viz.
One pound two ounces of breed «r flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of ram, brandy or whiskey.
One quart and half a pint of fait.""}
Two quarts ef Vinegar, (
Two pounds of Soap, ( P er hunt)r ed ration.
One pound of Candles, J
The rations are to b« furnifhed in ftjch quantitiss. asthat
there ftiall at all times daring the said term, be fullicient
for the co»fumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix months in
advance, ai)d at each of the other posts, for the term of
at least three months in advance, in good and wholesome
provinons,ifthefame stall be required. It is to be un a
derftood, that the Contractor is to be at the expence and
risk of iffuirg the fvppliss to the troops atwich post, and
that all losses fuftaiued by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the troops of the United States, (hall be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the depofitioHS of two or naore persons of creditable cha
racters, and the certifiaete of a eommiffiencd officer, af
eertaimng the eircumftances of the lose, and the amount
of the ai ticks for which oompenfation /ball be claimed
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
Struth Setond-Jlreet.
For railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably !o an Aft of
the Lcgiflature of Pcnnlylvaaia, passed during the IaII
jeflion, for building* a Stone Bridge over (he River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the Countv of
Berk '- . , Dollar,.
» Pnte of 20,000 Dollara t 20 OQO
1 do. of 10,000 do. . . .o'ooo
3 do. of 5 ,000 do. . . , 5)000
1 do. of ~000 do. . „ Biooo
10 *| 0 - °f '.°oo do. - . . 20iOOC ,
39 do. of s°® do. . .
80 do. of aOO do. - . . ,^B6
»oo do. of 100 do. . 20 oa
3°° d ,°- "{ 5° d°. . li 003
1 do, of 500 do. to be paid (he pofTef->
forj f the firft drawn no. J s°°
of 3,080 do. to be paid pofiedbrs )
of the five last drawn no» J 's.°°®
■i do. t
i do.
§,400 do. o
. 3rickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
An Prizes shall be paid fifteen days after the drawing i>
ftnilhed, upon the demand of a polMor of a fortunate
ncket, fubjeft to a dedu&ion of twonty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as foonas the Tickets arc dtfpofcd
of, or perhapt founer. of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter William Witman,
Joseph Hiefter, James Diemer, Thomas Dundas %
James May, John Otto, John Ktim, DanietCrarf,
Sebajlian Miller, Commissioners.
dam
Reading, May the 9th, 1796. .
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. 1, to be had at the
above office, where the earliefl iniormation of the draw
ing of the Walhington No. a, and Pattcrl'oji Lottery's,
are received, and check books for examination and regif.
tering are kept.
October 7
Brokers Office, and M
1 COMMISSION STORE.
Ne. 63 South Third flreet-oppoflte the national new Bank*
SAMUEL M j?R UNCIiS and JOHN VAN RKED*
have entered into co-partuerihip, under the firm of
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commilfion merclfcnts. They bay and
fell on commission every species of flock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses ai*d lands, &e.
Money procured on depoftts, &c. &c. att hinds c r
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, -and books fettled, in the
most correa manner, Cosftant attendance will be given
They solicit a stare of the public favor; they ire deter'
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmoil fecreey observed.
' .k SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
Philad. -AMguft 2J, 1796. m&wtf
Lottery and Broker's Office,
iVo. 64, South Second street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, ao. 8, for fele—
Check Book for e*amination—-and prizes paid in
the late lottery. r '
Check Books kept for examination and regifterin?, for
the City of Washington, No. 2, *nd Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
ackets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The subscriber solicits .the application of the public
and his friends, who wife to purchase or fdl Bank Stock
Certificated, Bill, of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,'
See. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
*.* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery fpir
lale at Tea Dallsrt each, whiah mil be drawn early'ia
the Sprifig. 1 '
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, jlugu/l 18, >796. mt |.
PRINTED BY JOHN FENN O!
• —No. j 19—
Uh&f.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of tile 'jTreafury.
By Authority
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
10,054 Prizes
10,046 ftlafnks
CHESNUT-STREET.
[Pric-c tight Dollar* p» r Annum.)
141,000
300,000