of tfjc finite #»; hiladelphia Daily Advertiser.
NUMBFR 1592 J
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For D R r GOODS.
T Fonenonn—l?dward Fox, No. j6,
JSW.I, j , , smith fronr-ftreet,
• ) ;VivrvHm— Footman it Co. No. 6 $
C. -Sooth Front street. *
f" Forenoon—John Connelly, Old.Citv
tuefday< Atidhon, No. 73 foutli Front-street.
Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C ißj High-street. .
Vt'ecLsefdai \ A'Wrroon—Pe-er <?enfon, No. 74
- I south Third-ft;cet.
ThurCiay \ £dward Fox.
C Afternoon-—John Connelly.
Fridat f Forenoon-*- .
' 5 Afternoon—Jolin Cornell)-.
Saturday Afternoon—.Peter Benjon.
For ~
'On moderate terms, to any port in Europe,
THE SWEDISH SNOW j
uftaf A dolphz,
Captain Rampb. '
cities aboyt aooo binds of flour. For terms
apply to
Peter Blight.
who intends Landing a quantity Jamaica Hum
AND >UBAR, received by Hup Amity, capt. Cook,
Irom Jamaica.
«*• dim
For Freight or Charter,
TU£ good BRIG
S U K E Y,
•_V ITaac Vnedenburg-, Master;
* NOW' lyiff* at Clifford's whiir, and in icmpleat
tirdrr to receive a cargo, For terms please to ap-,
fly the Captain on board, or *
Join Slyriu,
No. 81, Arcl.-Oreet.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
2000 wt.of doublerefinedSaltpetre
600 wt. of F F Guu Ponder
300 barrel* of Herrings
50 bufteK of Timothytfced
Clyct, firil quality
Anti a qaantity of Slurry Wine.
dtf 1
HAVANNA SUGARS. i
FOR SALE,
I+CO boxes and calks prime white Hava
na SUGARS,
On boird the /hip Hamburgh Packet, Silas ®
Swain, Mailer, now lying at Marcus Hook.
Tor terms, apply to Capt. Swain, on board, to
Capt. Samufl Smith, in Front, near Wal
nut Rreet, or to .
Philip Nici/in, & Cs. (]
0 l^e
Hamburgh Packet
Fir SALE or CHARTER.
She is 310 tons regifl;r, coppered to tl»e bends, J
f«!s Jtwirkab'vftft, and tin be ready to re
ceive a car;;o in a few days.
ir. dzw <
, Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wlrnington, Delaware _
Ptate, "a"d noik landing from on Hoard the
Prig A -live, Wifliam Williams, Master, p
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale bv
Jehu Holltngjuiorih & Co.
Wilmington, Stpt.H. dtf
Ji'tJv'* B. The above Brig,
the bri£ GAYOSO, are
a ""° a ' c or Charter, and
now ready to receive a cargo
on hoij-tl it Wilmington. Vi>p!y »<t ahove.
ftr HAMBURG Li,
■«, '"j "HE Co iper Bottomed Ship
. I FA V Ol>J TE, John ,h
fll om pson, Mailer, no-*- at fti
Br 'g bt '' wharf, and will be rea
"7 t0 »ikc in on Monday next,
part of her cargobeing engaged
and ready to go (fit board. Ihe fliip ra so well
known, that it is needless to describe her. She
is Boiy in romplent order. I'"or Freight or Pas- H
fag#, plta/l- to applv at Mr Jeremiah Warder's .
Coropiing H-iufe. Np. 13, North -Third flreet,
or so the Master on bord.
August 30.
For SALE\
O. board the said Ship,,Swedifh Iron, afTorted ~
Hollow and Window Giafs, Demyjofcns, Wrap
fing Paper for Sugar Refiners, Hugs of 1&. 2 .
Quality. Please to apply as above.
FOR SALE, ~
BRET AGNES in cases
Getrnau Checksin do.
Cambiick
Plattillas
t
Gold and filve* Watches
Window Glaf« io by 8 1
Glass Tumblers in cat's
tinfeed Oil in ctflcs, &c. &c. .■
George Pennock, Pi a
103, High-StrcX. . Bri
J»'y 5- jaw Ro'
( An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered 011 immcdiaiely a large Tic
and elegant house at the Corner of Ard: and Ozi
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms W1
sndons dining room—the largest is 31 feet by I>ia
apd two are so comiotflsd by folding doors Br6
aslo make but one. Also, five bed rooms, be- Um
fxlts 5 in the garret, well finifhed for fervanti, Hai
There are ftaliles and a houfe, with evry Bla<
eoiweiiience for a family. Enquire .it No. 29,
in North Seventh.ftrcet, or at No. 218, Arch
Street., ' j,
Au S- r 5- aawjw.
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufaflured as usual,
Ginger and l-epper ground
Shdled or Pearl Barley '
Bhibdclphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter , jfj
Taunt.'O and Buiton Ale that
Ked Port and other Wines, eithe bottled, tinue
er by the pipe, quarter-calk or gallon—fallible Be
for exportatbn or home confampiion— doll
For Sale by Fo
John Haworth.
fouth Front flreet, a j .
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 16, 179-7
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
'.(lf "°t before dtfpofid of at privaU [ale)
ON Fii-tay", the si il of Dec-rr»l>pr ne^t, at fix
o'clock in th- evening, ac the Merchants'Cuf- 1
.5 House, ip Philadelphia. Fort/ Thousand Nine
1 Hundred and Thirty Nine acrea «.f LAND,
a "°* or '«e UJ tbcC.ua.yol WMHris-on, ami Con
monwealth oF Peimfyli/aau, and n the' w. ters of
n- ll*'! 1 , and AVurelieg Creeks a, d T e „ Uile Run.—
' These Linds are ferti e aod arid .Were
treet. patenteed eirly in excep! 3700 aciri or therea-
No. b ° ul ». which were patented in 179 a. One fourth ]
Of Ihi pure ha fc money to be paid at the time of f»'«,
3,74 , r , e 'ehdue a crfdit cf 00c, two and three moadU, ■
Wl i* J" e K""' r '. on interefl and good feturity.
Oflobei 6. y 3iWIS I
To be Sjold at Public Vendue, i
t( If n °t before difpejed of at private sale) 1
f r iday, thf fir it day ot December, at fix
Jo clock io tKfc p\ening, at the Merch.wu'Coffee
House, in Philadelphia, T # cotv Bix Thousand Set
van Huid-rd and Eighty acres of LAND, in ihe -
Sl c IC 0t Ncw * York » between the northern bounds
of Pennfvivajna and the >ulquchanna, now, or 1 x
in the.t')wn(bipi of aod Warren, aud^comi
t2 l T One fourih of the ourchafe j
> money uto be paid at the time of sale C lor ihe le- a
fitlue a crpd'.t of Oi\e, two, and tbree months will be f,
crnfis : §' on intercft and .good fecuritv, u
; 31-ATtS t J
j" UH The Norfolk Mail STAGE. e
'OK, __
F HI3 Stage starts from the GEORGE Tayctn,
r\ i a ' l ' lE collur oi Second and Arch ittreets, ip
Philadelphia, ,rv#ry TucfJpy, Tbur/Jay, and Satur- f .
day, at .i •o'clock, in the irorning ; arrives at !)o
vcr the fi:ft day, at Snowhill the second day, a;
Worihair.pton Covr; House the third <lay, and uo
tlje moruing of rjvj fourth day , tiie jalfisiigera find
' a fafe and uomfprtable packet to convey thwnto
; Noi folk. jJJ
leat A packet leave, Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
ap- every Tuesday, "i'hurf iay aud >aturd iy, and the '
-tigc ttait» from this ferry for Philadelphia, every f B
Mon.ay, Wodnefday and Friday ;!puts up at Snow. i el
Hill thefirft night, at Dover the ad night,and ar- |
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
re
i'he distance on this rout-, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is lo npiles left than on any ftag< route '
between those place*. i
Too much cannot be Caid in favor of the i
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors q
w Uuigly engage to return the whole fare to any t
passenger, who, after having performed this route, i v
w|ll fay that hr ever travelled in a ftagp for the fame ; f D
distance, so good a road in America.
All l<"ft "■ dini.eotf.
n " Window Glass,
| as Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other io
k ihe City— thi
to OF VARIOUS SIZES, 1 Sti
i From Bby si to jq by 14, ,
By the fyigle Box or Qu*mi>y, may he had »l the
(lore of the Subfcriben, corner of Arch and Front- wi
ftrcet. tht
James C. If Samuel W. F'tjher. \ ed
jung
l. Red Port Wine. ~
«, Just arrived, hy the brig Iri«, capt. Rhodes, from
B-. Oporto, J
R«d Port Wine in pipes, hhiU .'and quarter cases ,
<C cwt. Cork, for sale by ar
Philtpg, Cramond, & Co.
-e "■ § WI,
ie Will be Landed,
Frona on board the ship Aijive, Capt. Blair,from of ]
f, Famhujgh, «
20 bales white Russia clean Hemp
I calks Clover Seed » ' , 1
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Lettffer,
t North Fifth fli-eet, N». ,?4- r F
Tune 26. X
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chefls of a superior quality—alio, W
too do. of Hyson,
? Imported in the lYoodrop Sims, and for sale br r ° te
■ the fubferiber, corner of Second and Pine for
1 ftieet.
1 C. Haight.
.Tune ti.
Cedar Shingles.
THE fubferiber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar
Shingles of a superior quality, for sale at n
dollars per thousand. »
1
William Hallow ell,
Na. 193 North Third-Jireet.
July *7- eoi2t
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. If 6, Soutli
» Front-street,
Hyson
Hyson Skin (»rr.ic
Young Hyson C '
Imperial J Forj
Apjil2o. eolf
Imported in the latest arrivals from Tf
Amfierdam and Hamburg, (and for sale by Tc >
B. & J. BOHLEN, fhc'f
lerge ajj'ortmcnt of fine French Cambrics, Gem
Platillas Kuflia JudDntchfailcloth m thi
Bvittannia* Writing, post, and print- J a
Rouanes ing p aper of wi
Brown Holland Du'ch calf ftin« re
Checks and ftripss Prime madder
Ticklenburgs Shell'd Barley XC
Oznaburgs Looking glallcj tilled
H hite sheetings Hollow glaiis ware e.- 1 to
Riaper Slates ne f 9 0
Brown rolls Coffee mill* in l e f>
Uinhrellas Brass kettles cence
Hair ribbons Scythes and draw knives rituoc
Black and whitelaces Toys afTorted in boxes the fa
Best Holland Gin in pipes I ers lej
London particular Madeira Wine
J"'y **■ m&thtf
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy c
Ditto ditti Claret in cafe i Germi
Just received, and for Sale hy
bundle & Letch. . .
at- . 2awtf , l " the
Mrs. G RATTAN
INFORMS her friends,and the public in general,
that h:r house, No. 191, Markst-Ureet, will con
tinue open during the fickneft.
Board and I.odging in a separate room, ten
doll a tis, in a double room, iioht dolbkks.
For the convmicncq of th. fe gentleman who
have not tjioic iamilici in town, Mrs. ©rattan
will receivegentjenien to dine at ual. < douah
By John Fenno, N« il9 Cbefnut Street.
;e, Choice St. Croix Siiqar and Rum
.) Code'
ir fix Kladeira an<i TVneriffv* Wine
Cut- For - a c l>y
ND v
<3iv.'. OA (• ■ —' Lvm * l ''""""l^ftrect.
0
re _ Philadelphia, Sept. aid, 1797.
• ' l^ E Mcr i h,rlts w ' ho ~lis time prefer hai>.
ing their vefTelt and Mercliandiia entered and
du . c '" rfd / t Chefler or Hobfc,—are htre
by notified, That in compliance with their <le
s and upm a full eontifl on that the measure
will lie mutually benefichs! to and to the
e, nited States. The col!e<flr>r of the ctilloms has
; made arrsrgrments to efl.iMifh fxr some time
fix b'ancJies of the cuilom lmufc at those places,
flee K here every accommodation in his power wtl!
Se- he given to the merchants. di w
lids TO BE SOLD," •
* -duf immediate p'j/fefpuv given,
u ' r ; A Convenient well fimlhcd brick fenctnent,
~ j . Wlth a <o»k house and other out houf-s, situ
- atcd in a pleasant. part of the borough of Wilming
ton,,, the Stife of Delaware-The lot of rrouml
5 ■ has'forty f-et ftont on West-street, aud exttnds
th; btigh the fijuarc to Paflur -street, on which is
erected a luble and carriire honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
tn, y>u.r.int;ton, jo.
j? Lately Published,
8 vo C» r K' one dollar in
a- N u UVAM YOUNG, corner of Second 2nd
ftreets,
nd 4 Collection of Paperi on the.fubjeft of
t0 Bnhotis Fevers, prevajent in the United
States for a few yeats pift.
7; Compiled hy MO AH IV? ESTER, fun.
ne Containing loiters from Dolors fJe'aman, Sviirh,
ry Boel, Taylor, Rsmfay, Motifoo, Reynolds, Mitch
►w ell,on contagion, &c. See.
ir- ! Sent t < „
rd
City Commijjioners Qffiet,
H August 29, 17.97.
IN ptirfuttnce of an Ordinance of the Scied and
Cf mmon Councils, p«(T.,d the 121 day ef May lad.
r j Pinp«f»!- in writing will he received hy the City
CummiGmcrs for one month from the lit of Sep-
J tember next, for letting to rent on leases for one
• ; year to compieret the firft da. of January next, the
following public property of the city—
Th* wha'f and landinj on Vine Street,
Alfo on Saflafr»s
Mulberry, ,
And High Streets, ,
in Chf fnut and Walnut Streets, Braw Bridge, with /
th« Scale and Fi(h Houfts, Spruee, Pine and Cedar ,
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hrll.
it The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill, 1
t- with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much •;
thereof as shall be occupied hy any buildings ereif- <
ed for the use of the Collector of the Tolls, or be <
neceflary for the toll-gates.)
A n g- J 3tawim. p
LOST, J
ON the PaiT) unk Road, between the B).e Bal "
and the city, a Fowling Picc», witli a fcrafs
barrel and silver fight; on the plate of the butt are
the letter. " Jamaica, 99"-and on the barrel -
near the lock '• London" ond the Tower (lamp.
Whoever will return the aid piece to John Bemuri,
■ at the lign of the Blue Ball on the PafTyunk Road, r
or the ofiics of t): is Gazette, (hall receives reward
1 of Four French Crowns, ,
•"'P I - '»• . *3t ,
DUTY ON CARRIAGES. ■
Notice is hereby Given, "
THAT agreeably to an a,51 of Co.igrcfs of the
United States of America, pafrfd at phila- «
■ delphia, the »Bth day of May, T79* ; laying ju
ti«s on Carriagei, for the conveyance of pcrfons, i
which wall be kept by or for any person, f*- his
or her own use, or to let out to hiss, qr for thf f
conveyance of aaflengtrs, the ftveral duti?o and '
rates followir,g,|to wit :
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every Cfuriot, It dote.
■pon every Poll Chariot, la dols.
upon every Post ChaiJe, la 4«lp.
upon eyery Pk«tQF,,v. ith or without top, 1°
9 dols. r J*
upon every Coachee, 9 dots.
iipcn oth«r C.iTiicges, haviiig pannelwotk
above, with ov curtains,
9 dols.
upon f«ur wheeled Cf.,-ris£«s having £ra
med polls and topt with Heel
dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood-
iron fprinfsor jacks, 3 dols.
upon Curricles with tops, j dels,
upon Chaifcs with tojs, 3 doll,
upon Chairs with cops, 3 dots.
upon other two wheel top carriages, $ dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with iteel or
iron fpringi, 3 dole.
For and ujon all other two wheel carriages, a dols.
upon every four wheeled having
framed polls aud tops, and rcfling up
on wooden spars, 2 dols. bol
The ColleSors of the Revenue for the firft Sur- mo
vey of the Diflriil of Pennsylvania, will attend rno
daily, until the 33th day of September for m 0
the puipofe of receiving the duties 011 Cai riaaes, at be 1
German town ;at the house of Daniel St. Cliir.Efq. he,
m the County of Montgomery; and at the house the
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ; no
of which all perfonspoffeUed of such Carriages ire
desired to lake notice. «
Notice is also given, • |wo
TO aUrct?'l in Wines, aud foreign dif- P".
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will be gr ß "' -
ed to them ; one ficenee for carrying on the bufi- 1
ness of retailing of Wines, iu a less quantity, or "
in less quantities than thirty gallont—and <W li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi- BY
rituous liquors in less quantities »Ua» ao gallons, at
the faait! time and at the.fame places, b;*he oificr
crs legally authorised i« "rant such llccuccs. .
WILLIAM NfOHQLS,
Infpe.9nr of the feevemte of the firft fur -
Vvy of rht, Diftrid cf Pennsylvania.
Ofijce ol Infpeilion at 7 ,
Germantow, nth Sept. 1797. ) "V
I M V O R T E D th °
In the fliip America, James Ewinj, matter, from the
Hamfcuiistif clafl
Brown Holland* un( } (
White j ot
Ticklenb«ygs
Coarse Liritns
Tapes
assss i '•
De
roa SALE BY
George Pennock. Pcr N
4*Z", n 14- • jaw F
um To be Let, at a moderate Rent,
THS principal jh" hf a HOUSfi, within a
ftortdifUn.y; of the Coffeo-h ufc, whleh has
ten occupied si r the lull four month", co»!ifti"g,
of a goad dimng room and pt'Jour, r.va Viedrarsns
•t. apd a dreHiivroom, two gsrrtts, ki-chcn, */iod
w vault all in excellent oryer, fit for the
recepffftu of afmtl family. None r.red
apply but thole who airs r:fj>eelab , le ay J reg iilar
7' Enqpiir- at the olEce of this Gazette.
iav« Otftobcr 9.
2nd ! ,
tre- Mr. L A IL S ON,
<le- WITH an intention to render ferviee, and um'e
lure cfi fc those PerfqrAters, who during his absence Mr.
the Jiymond lus thought proper to engage, thinks it
has would be wrong in him not to inform thofc tliat
ime •"reengaged, that it is withou hi-; approbation, and'
cVs, that he will rot be in any way answerable for Mr.
Will J a y™ond , 6 engagements.
PHILIPPE LAILSOfa.
Alexandria, St;*. 15, 1797. 6t.
THE MAYOR'S OFFICE
?nt, 18 FOR THE PRESENT, AT THS
itu- CITY HALL.
ng-
ind The PhUadclpiia, Jlijion, and 7 uclerton
"1: MAIL STAGE.
rHE proprietor s beg leave to inform the public, that
they have tjiutlijird, a Stage belli etn Philadelphia,,
Alfeor., Baffin Hampton, Spee/tvell, an J Martha. Fur
<T~ ***■> tfWfg fovtr fitting mill and the tot* ncf Tuci
crton, in Nezv-'yerfay-, to go on:r a iveck, and arcp> cvi
bld df l n ith goq/l half it, a comfortable and a fare*
ind ful driver, for the cosrtcxaiut of ile mail,pcrffe.i^ers, and
good;. Tit Stage will fart every ThurfJj.y, crt IO
of 0 c eel, A. JH. font Alt. Ek'tiitl Custer s Perry, crrnf
lodgt tit at 'ii *fcel Sodi'-t's, di Istrygacqniihg end
cn cn Friday. ai 6 a*dec*, P. M. arrive at C:leJ» £-
W* *> "'keeper, in Tutfcrion, difaut font tie city 54
miles, ffrcrx tie Atlantic 6, and from the Eafi Group**
» Plain: 7 miles J ivhtre are 'cod a&CHttcdationi JW tra
" sellers, and wker* are comrnclious andfafcpaffige boats
provided to crnvey pr/fegers to Cap. Willi am IVar
— r i"«tuis house, cn TtuLr's Ijhr.d, afoityiung tie At
lantic, ivlcrc arc good ar.om.-r. callous, and a lor.venitnt 3
place to lathe ; the fporlf,nam tvb* vuifies to rcgJe bimfelf
ipitl) foivlujg andfifiinrr, may at this plate he highly gra- "1
nd tifcJ. there being tit ulmojl every, feafun of tie year foiul
•ft. axdffi in abundance.—Tie Stage on its return, JUrtf
ty from the aforefaid C Evans's in Tuckerton, every "Tutf
p- day, at 6 0 clock, A. lit. at *fobn hodl/ie' s, at
UC lVading River Bridge, lodge tsct night at t
he and at 1 0 cloei, P. Jit. on tl'edntfday, arrive at the U
Aforefaid Cooper s Ferry, ft is presumed thai no route of v
•" an c 'l ujl dfiance -well be life e*pe*Jtvc, or furnijh the tra~ b
veller ivitb a greater variety of amufment, as he will li
not only have a pleasant fail t>o the atlantjc from Tvclef- C
ton, bfst have the curiojity of JCfing on the rqad father a el
th number of capital furnaces and forges, and one fitting d
ar mill t in complete order, and at u »ri ; gentlemen, /do, who a
we owners, or favors, <£jfny of thf aforefaid iron -works, le
are solicited to encourage and fypport this Jiage (by tub ch
11, they can befu nveti accommodated J the continuance >f ivbisb fa
:h ivill much depend on their aij. T\e rates of pajfengers fe
'" baggagt are as follotvs : For a pajjenger from the U
,e a f'refatd Daniel Cooper s Ferry U TuckerfVn, including "Z
x 4 oj baggqgf, Tyoo Dollars ; for ivay pajjeutgers
m PcixiUi Ftur Cents—1 50 lb. of baggagf equal to a pas
f cn % er > Piflage of letters, neitfpapers, iffc. will he
_ agreeably to taiu.
p 3. Tbt mail crofftt from the Old Ferry. Vi
Thomas wardle & Co. fr
Tuckerton, Sept. 28. QB.s. Zatvtf CJ
>. To be Sold, g'
And immediate pofieflion givert,
'T'HA I*elegant fcil,called BLOOMSBUKY.the
4- of the late ]«ns Cox, Kfq with i
bout to acr«s of LapA Ctuite on the Delaware, c*- -
_ tenjinjf frov the mouth of AfTanjiickcretU, to Trcn
ton frrrr. The manfkin houfc ii a handfoine vrsll
ccnftrurted bfick huildmg, jo uy 40 feet, contain
ing four rooms on each floor, with excellent Collar*,
and a two {iory brick kitchen. Amopg the out
" buildings are a Hon? cpach house and {Tables, fuf
fieient t» contain fix carriage! and ten horXc» f apd S*
a stone cow lionfe, upwards of too feet In hngth. tn
f There is a'ic a {lone firm honfe wfth corn c'ibs, or .
! 0 " hot'fc, #tc. ic. The whole of tVe prenii- e .
" fespropofed to be fold witji this, feat, from their fitii- t ' l
tttion ajd improvements, are such as to be Worthy
th« attention of any gentleman wilhing to ritirc S cl
from th« city. There are nlfo about 15 acres ad- |.' c
joining the ihovc, which will be d : vi* Jfoas to '' c
accommodate the pOrchufei s. Also, 100 acres ai- ' u .
joining the town lots onthefaft fide of the street Jj"
■ leading from Trenton to I.amhcrton, which will
he fold together or in I t*, as may heft suit the pur- ""
chafer, and 130 seres of woodland, two miles fronv , n "
the ahove land, which will alio be divided if rc- Int
1 <juired. she t'rmj of payment will be made easy, B "-
and an indiffrutable title give-n. For further parti- c
cularsenquite of Mrs. Cox. No. 144, South Fourth ° ;
street, Philadelphia, John SteTcns, Efq Hohoc- .
fc«n, Mathias Barton, Jift]. of Lancaster, or the ']i
fnbfcriber at Tx-cnton. °"
MASKELL EWINO.
Trenton, Sept.-45, 1797.
Sept. 30. ', ■ dtf. tfle
■■ cot
At the Federal Blast Furnace, c °'
In Carver—for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling "J
Mit-t-s.. ' („u
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers. thi
TBEISi fupenoritj cat.jijls in being free from to
boles and boney-combed placet, luhicb are com- ciai
monly fuund in rollers cajl in fund, or clay ciai
mouljs. Theft patent rollers are cajt in iron fhiji
moulds, previovflj) heated, and nil Ibe found to at " i
be mere dense, solid and durable than any rollers an( *
heretofore used. Jin other important advantage 10 *
they hi lie ever others, is, that the neeks require at ''
no ftfming, but are intmedaiteli fit fir use, and
from their accuracy, run ivitP less friSton, and V ? J
require irj's water to mute them perform their '.
itiork. 'Jhey may be had by application to tfje J!"
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Goad- "'j
•win, or of tMeffrs. Thatcher aid Haytuard
Boflon, Aug. 31. Sept. 19.— —fytt. t R e
This Day is Fubliliied, I tiles
BY McjT. Doblon, Carey, Campbell, Kic and the
othei Bookfellcrs,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegant y printed on IVoue paper, and Hot- aid '
Med, ' !f
By Jolm rfhotflpfon, '^ h
A COIIPAR.vriVK VIEW OF lcrfi
The Conftitutior.s tA^
Of tl|p fcveral States with each other, and with ever
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables, p 0 0
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and has i
claflingtogether their most imp»rtant provisions, <;ii re(:
under tfce ieveral head» cf administration ; with um (
Notes andObfervations.
By' WILLIAM SMITH, n
Of South-Carolina, fefli
L L. D. and member o£ the Congress of the fubf<
United States. ail
Dedicated to thu People of tli* United States, unde
N. E. A few Copi s printed o:t an inferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof 1 tl«llar.
F.biuiny 0 ruwf ' ] l:
t, f nomas Herman LtuFFER,
in a North riftU Arect. corner of North alley, No. 34.
j has for sale,
' ' |7 x CELLKNT t».d Bour.lci.ux Wine in cases au4
, boxei, f„ year* old
° While Gravos Wine in calks
rrtkifitrg,
need. Russia Sail Cloths
r Haveus Duck
Bag Linen
" Hessians
JJjipcr and Table Ogth
Fmnty
i''e- Cm moo German Cloth
Mr. *ll i'.iiortmcnt of Mack coloured Ribbons
ts rc 1 ine German Laces
that, About twelve tons Russia clean Kemp
and Clover Seed 1
Mr " wf-l'T in r^ail box «. for family us?
. wto_Gi«r, /. u , r T „.L,, W
J "Jl tUS IVY WAS i'ljhl.i ,I«£L
And for (<!e by 7HQMsIS DOBSON, at tb.e
htfn.- House, No. 41, south Second Street.
EVENINGS at HOME ; ,
CHt, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
of a variety of MifcellaneOns Pieces for
2 trie inilre,aion and aaiufemdrtof YOUKd PEIk
•SON'S—-iixVermes,Vsndfon-K:ly printed And bound
up m two voUixms, price Twu Dollar*.
f? , T h \r«W«y aiid'excellence of tficfc pieces are
j/a, lucix; that .the book netdß only to K be known to b«
nr- uoiverfclly adeemed one c( the mnJJ valuable pub
ci- hcstioosth t can be put ifcto u,e hands of youiur
•w- perlons.
rc ~ ta!k to rear the tender thought,
tnd 1 0 teach the idea how to ftcot,
10 1 o pour tl« freffi infixuflion o'tr tlic miiid,
v<£ To Ireathetb' enlivccjng ipiiit.vtd to Ci
:.d ffte gsuerous juxpole in the glowing. Ututt."
. ~ 1 IiOM SON.
? Auguft 24. . mwf4w
rnit> d yis I'ubi.iJhld" "
;■ By THOMAS POBSON, st th, stoae House,
No. 41, south Second ftxeet,
ti- Letters and Converfatiohs,
t/it Bet ween several i ovLadies, on improving aj;d !&•
"f terefhng fubje&s.
■a- Translated from the Dutch of Madame «< Ccw.Un
with alterations and improvements,
■U Printed mfie paper, and r.eatly Lund,
[' Price out ddlar.
at AM IDST the tide of modern llaivior.cei, painting
g, tales cf extraordinary distress, or of desperate or
ie j artful villainy, which « harrow up the foul," and
<f which it would be for the honor of young laiics to
I. bc ijira/ of, this little book c«mes forward to fa
1/ licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex.
r- ceeding the bounds of real lift, the prefer, beeaufs
a elegant and Natural dignity and importance of the Fcmak
>Z fbarcfier is exhibited in an uitcreftingpoint of view,
io and prefeats examples of real aad attainable excel -
1, lencc.
b The publifter was so much pleased with the |»er»
4 sal, that he was per/uadtd he f .ou'.d do a pleatiat
'/ fervieeto the community by fending it in ocircu
'* ».ugrufta4—m^4w
ITo Masters and Pilots bringing up Vejftft
r from Foreign Ports to this City,
" W Here " lundr y infringtmetits have lately beea
V 1 made on the laws of this Hate for the pre
venting psflilential or inf«<Sjous diseases, eith<r
from ignerance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publifc tba followinf «x
- 'radii from the laws of aad April, 1794, 7th aad
Bth feAiopa.
' HEALTH-OFFICE.
June <Jth,
_ ExtraSt of en nttfor ft curing the eitj and p Jr t
, of Philadelphia from the iiltrtiußion of ptfli.
lential and contagious difiqfes.
SECT/7. And be it further ena<3ed, that «verr
t mailer or captain of aUy ftlp or veflil eonuW f ro m
_ sea (veJels adually employed n the coall,„ g trade
1 boufid to any port or place within
the junfdia.on of Pennfylyar.ia.mall cause hii&ip
. ° r , V " , to „ t,c broH £" { to.anchor,or oth,rwife.ftay
. eJ in the flresm of the rivpr Delaware, oppafit. to
. H«ith-Office on S.tate-lflsqd aforefaid, and
there to remain until he (hall have duly vbtainai a
certificate or hill of healil, from the Rafident I hv
fician. And i(, preyieufly to obtaining fu»h certi
ficate or lull of health, any mafti r or capuin (hall
Cußrhisfttpor velTelto approach nearer than the
said Healtli-Office to th« city of cf
fliall lapd, cause or luffcr to be hndc4. rr brcuVht
011 (bore, at any pUce or pqrt within this Coxr.-
nrtmwealth, or at any other j.ort or place, with the
intent of being conveyed into this Commonwealth
any pcrlon Or f erfons, or any goods, wares or mer
chandize. or, if after rsxfiriqg such bill of health
p.- certificate, he fliall negl.a or nfufe t« dtl.ver
Health:oiE cer/uch cap
tain fliall forfeit asm pty, (or eacli and every such
offence, the sum of rive uuxiietD solud.
And the captain or master of every fli.p or vtii
fel shall fend a fafe and commodious boat to brintr
the phyficiati on board, and (ball in like manner
conv, y I'im back to the Health-Office, after he has
Concluded his official examination ; And while lie
i« making such examination, or in rase auy lubfe
quent er.ammatioo by tKe Heal h Officer or Con
lulting Phyflcian, agreeably to the diretSions of
9ft, the mailer or captain (hallexptj/e or caulc
to beexpofed to thefearth of the Refidect Physi
cian.or of the Health Officer and Consult n ? Phvfi
cian (as the cafe may be) each and every part of'th«
ship or veflel, and ffiall present to his view eac»
and every peribn or perfoss 011 board thereof, an t
and shall also true and fatisfaaory answers make
to all lach queflions as the Refider.t Physician, &c.
at the time of eyamination shall aflc relative to tb«
health of any potior place frtm which the Vhip or
ve*iel failed, or has since touchjd at—tiie number
of persons en board when the ship er velTel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that have
lince been landed or taken on board, and when
and whererefpedlivefy—what pftfons on Loard—
f they hate been during the voyage, or fbell, at
the time of examination, be infe&ed wish any pet,
tilential or contagious dileafe—and what is the pre
sent state and condition of the persons otr board
with refpefi to their health or difeafcs. And $
any jnafter «r captain shall refufa to expose as afore •
aid, to the search of any of the cfiicers aforefaid.
■ if he Oii'itMeealaryjei ferfea,,ri., any otter mas^
t' r da " ve 'beproper ojjiun aforefaid in Lb thhoers
uoh captain or mafter,for every such offence, shall
forfeit and pay tuc sum o{ rivis uuhobub Dot-
LARS.
Spcy. 8. And if aay person or persons whatso
ever (the Resident Physician, Sec. excepted) shall
go on board any vefTel. befare the mailer thereof
has received a certificate of heahlj in the manner
direiSed, every person so offending, stall pay the
um of one HUKnaEo dollars
IT being abfolwely necefTary that the foregoing
fe<slions fiiotild he punctually con>p!ied with, ttv
fubferiber, in compliance with his duty, njufi cx
a<a a obfcrvaacc of the lanic, or else be
under necefiity oi puttipg the laws in force.
Wm. Health Ojficiir </f tlt&
Pert ft/" l'Lil -JAblrta.
'J u! T *4r
[!'ozu*jf XII.A Meeting of the. Selecl and Com
mon Councils
WIJ.Mif lir! '.. .at n o'clock ,in forenoon , /
r.:\ ' ueflav next, at tfie Stf'.hmtfo. 'm th •
city r( PhikdilpoH, for th ; p'irprvfr of t 'cSirg a «-
M \ YO't; and, a* the efefimn c-»n be held or. no * r
other liay, t.ie attendance of a'.l the Members isJur I
f;.-«Air/y rrque'i?d. n \ ' n f Hi
I<T ° r ''" r WlLllA\iH.T < oo, CKrcofthej >W 1
SfleA Otincil. / )'
HOWARD 1 COAI.E, C'erk <jf part (
"the C,«nmon Council. I hereb
O&ober u- . , 1 du£l,
gr The printer# of the city are requeued !to
puh i*V the fi-rct»oin T ill tVir >evfral tf* I',. •
""Philadelphia, OH. I 3'A fa!fe>
THF. fahferiber? Inform their fri' n 's and cu ; tt- *
men io town and tiu"try, that their (lores are
open in the city, and other« are <"ai'y open.ne, and ed ti
that from the present appearance "f the nrevailm* p e &,.
difovder have Yeafon to hope, their friends to th
shortly come (o the city with perfect faf ty. By\
fe*cal latt arrivals, numbers have received frcm
funplies of GOODS. , f f Ca "
Robert Smith V Co. P 'V. GcllauJet »&•
Jebn Davis & Co. Sitj^rea-ves y j frerx.i, Plji'.E
Neil! o Smith, G.orge Dot font
and ,°w'th, Thomas Ryerfon,
s!lix B'jp.and «ml Co. T. R. Hardenberg.
Jacob avd Co. Job" Smith and Co-
Caxn tj 1 J : nr. Janet, Jl'omnsOrr, A
Keppth € Zantzinger, Ml!* *' Darh-r J Co. exerl
Mam Zantzrtger, Tho'vas Armr.t CJ Son. ] lUm ,
John Fries, 7■ MilUr. jmt. and Co. pref{
f <- i kind
The'Health-Office harr:
18 remove J to the City-Hall, and i« kept open the i
r.iirbt and day, where pcrfons having hufn f« may
apply. Wm. ALLEN, Health-Offi<-er. f ..
_ *<*■ *' ■ lcjrc.
No i'i u t: ~ ft ;tu
THE Oftces of the Department of Wsr ar<" ' or Q f p
the pr sent removed near to the Falls of the . cuy 1-
kill, on the Rjdge Road.
Wetrher 4. ZL. the
TENERIFFE WINE. J*
LANDING it Wa'nut-ftreet wliatf, TENE- K
PIFFF WINE, of excellent qual'ty. in pipes and P
half pipe., for sale Vy JAMEfi YARp. ptUi
oa. 10. eoßt - late
~ From Marseilles. ftat<
THE CARGO mer
Of the c v.'ftli(h barque Guftavus AdolphuJ,from qua
Marseilles, co'iJWng of the folljwinp articles, tiati
isriiichirgint: at Mr. latimer's wharf, and for c ip]
sale by the fuhfoihers nev<
BRANDY, well flavored, of a, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hogsheads t^e
Ditl.S in cafea ' ,
Frontigfiiac Wine, in eases of 30 bottles P"
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, i* baskets of 6 wb
bottles lu^
Captrs dai
Olive* thet
A i mend 1 tlei
Pry
Writing Paper
Umbrellaj (Sillt) of *B, 30 and 31 inches ty
TafTctles P c-
I>ong ard fbort white Kid Gloves for cmen TV
Silk
Handkerch'els■ 11 imitation or Mlarati COl
Artificial Flowers and Garlands •
Oftricb Feathers
TI ilihois
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder *nd Pomatum ful
N'anna in l'orls fe<
Cream Tartar. , ce
BENfAMIN MORGAN & ,
ROBERT ANDREWS. ™
Sqsterober 27. co
: NOTICE.
ALL perfom indebted io the estate of lomn n(
Striker, late of Tinnecum Townibip, _
Buck's County, are rcqneft'd to pay off their
rtfpeflive debts ; and those having any de- ">
mauds agsinft said estate, are desired to bring in #
Uieir arcounts. to
JOSFPIT CHAMBERLAIN, 7 Execu- f e
MALLET P^EVALT, S re
Sept. »8 1 f'
Boston Glass Manufadory.
THE citizens of the United States are hereby
informed, that the manufacture of Window
G'sfs is now commenced at the Glass House in Bm-
""it is rcedl-f* to fay any tiling of the excellent
quality of the Boston Glsfs, as it is so well known "
tkroujhont the United States to be in every rrfpeit -
greatly fup-rior to anv ever importei from Europe.
It will hrfut to any size commonly used ; and
iray be cons antly had hy applying to Cbari.es F.
Korrta, at the Glaf* House. _
Orders from the distant States to be addressed to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-street, Boston. f
Boston, Sept 33, 1797 * ° 4~"* w !
Mrffri. Timothy ani Mafia, CUurltJlo* ; M'ffrs
fJoJdi aid Bsyhn, Halifax, N. C. Mejfrs. Wdhtt
an J O'Connor, Ncr/dl ; Mr 1 } BUS, Price, Alexandria ; <
Mept, Tunit and Brown, Baltinrore ; Mr. Hofitms,
Netu-YtH ; and Mefn. Uudftn IS" Goodwin, Hart■ ]
ford; Mr. Seymour, Savannah ; are requejitd to insert
the above once a weei 6 vreekt. The account) to le for- |
ivarded to the Editor.. ■■
At a Meeting of the Board ot
Property, June 6, 1797'
Prefont John Hall, Set'ry. ")
Francis Johnllon, R. G. S ofUndoflice
Dan. jßrodhead, S. G-J
"Nicholas Bett'inger,
Versus r
Samuel Cunningham.) . ,
In this cafe the proof of service of notice be
ins infuffiHent, It isordered that notice be giv
en in one of the Philadelphia and York newfpa
pcrs weekly, for at lead eight weeks to the
heirs or assignees of Samuel Cunningham de
ceafcd, to atttend the board on the firft Monday,
in November next, to lbew caul'e why a patent
fiiould not ifliie to Nicholas Bettingei for the
Und In queflion.
IA true Copy.)
1 JOHN HALL,
Secretary of the Land Office.
Aug. J*. _j_? " wßw -
Just publiflied,
And to be loid at the Bcokftores of H. W P.
Rice, No. fp, Market-street; J. Ormrod,
No. 4J, Ch'efnut-ftreet, and Vv*. Young,
corner of Chefnut and Sec^nd-ftreets,
An accurate System of Surveying;
IN WHICH IS CONTAINFD,
I. Decimal fraaioni, in a plain, concise,
jrnd easy manner.
j. The extraflion of the square root.
i. Plain trigonometry, redangular and ob-
V A i
* 4 . An exaa method to cast «p the contents
•f lands.
5. Field furvrying.
The whole being performed without the uie
of scale 3nd compafiVs, on a table of logarithms.
In which is given some acci unt of the variation
mt the neetlle, and the cause* of its attratfiOß.
By SAMUEL MQCRE.
Aitguft *■' 2awjvr
%%t (Eto&ttt. p
, PHILADELPHIA, Swf
MONDAY EVENING, Octobfr 16. jnmiftr;
f ■ by eve
f " Tree' or
J MR. TF.vno, _ y(iur fl
I Having lived in Dr. Rush's fami'y dur- fiihiog
Jnj; t!i; prevalence of the yellow fever in dpmcs, i
tjhe year 1793' having vitiiriTed every \
I part of ln"s condufk during that time ; Ido From
hereby declare that the account of his con- Par
du£l, as publiflied in your paper of the 6th InVv is
inft. by a member of the college of Phvfi direiti
cians ol Philadelphia, is full of the grossest
falfehoods and misrepresentations. rtffulti
This declaration (bould ijave been hand- thus.a
ed to you at an earlier day, had I not ex- 'ence
pefted that Dr. Rush would have replied .perien
to the above mentioned publicatiem : but T ces o f
have lince learnt, that for the present he.' md c
means to treat it with silence. (Irong
John Redman Coxe. ' no oni
Philadelphia, o£lo. 16. is unr
From the TIME PIECE. true
i* Th
Fools will fe meddling. / . p!
At a time when the wife an<V"prndeiit are l .° Ir '
exerting every nerve, and friend to lon 0
human nature is throwing in his mite, to onc
preserve peace and good will among man- 01 an
kind, and present thi» country from being P eo P
harrafled by that scourge of nations, war, er > 011
the interested and the deligning are busy in
blowing up the embers of discord. Thij 1
spirit has at length found its way into col- (
leges and'academie9 of fcieuce, into those in- '
ftitutions which ought to be the repositories
of philosophy ; where youth are, or ought 1N
to be, trained up to become the lights of ,e
the world, and qualify thtofelyes to forward 0
that great principle of humanizing, civiliz- £
ing and harmonizing a race too naturally
prone to discord aßd to render each Other's
(ituation uneasy on this earth. In several
late college exhibitions in the different S P
states, the pupils have spoken their fenti- .
ments (perhaps of their tutors) witn un- tt
i qualified acrimony, against that enlightened c ]
. natiorf, whiqh founding heroifrtxon the prin
' ciples of philosophy, has extended its be-
nevolent idea of government into every
quarter of the world, and thereby opened nani
the way for that great and philanthropic '
political system, without tfie prevalence of j
5 which on this glohp, the whole of nature's
sublunary work is an infolvable riddle, which '
daily prompts the fool to fay in his heart, 1
there is iro God. It is in vain for these gen- S
tlemen to hope, at the present crisis of
things, to set the American tiation at enmi
ty with France. The republican spirit is
peace, harmony, and good will among men.
n The sentiment of America must operate con-
genially with that of France, in order to
confront the demon of monarchy, and drive
hira to his native obfeurity. Ye precep-
tors, ye fathers of colleges, who pofTefs sen
timents unfriendly to the rights of man, in- |
fult not the public mind, wound not the j
feelings of your audiences, by making inno-j
cent youth the organs of your malice, and as
far as lies in your power widening the breach
already too far effe&ed by the arts of design- h;l
ing men, between the American and Gallic
republics. Our chain of unity, although
' N not bright, will not easily be broken ; and
Brit 'tjk property taten hy the French during the
A J. time of -war, under the protection of a neutral
in *flag, without a reciprocal privilege allowed to ! ,
France,'istoo unmeaning exciting
■ u " serious mifuaderftandisg between the two
'* republics. e( j
For tie GAZETTE of tie UNITED STA TES.
. THERE can be no stronger proof that the fpi- ,
" fit of free difcuflion which has lately take« iilace,
"f is fulutary and promotive of the beds interefti of w
r nur country, than this, that it ha< excited th« i'n
t dignation of th« little lacohinic juntoes in various
C " paru of the Union. The spirit of simple democra-
W n cyisthemMl intolerant in the world; and too o|
o ng has our eoontry groaned under its baneful and
>!,e j difgraceful domination It is not lon; lince it wai rc
3 ' F considered hazardous to utter or publish the mod at
9 ' important and salutary truths ; th« charaflers of tt
j tQ men whose lervicet in the cause of liberty and
mankind gave them the highest title to the confi- J
H dence, love and veneration of the wife and good,
'_ w have been affailcd and calumniated for fupportin?
■ in their writings, truths which have stood the test ft
• ' of ages : and thoft who have dare<l to avow fimi- a
' l;ir prireiples, have done if at the hazard of every 0 ,
. dear in life, if rot of life itfelf. Exptrietiee
■ J jr , has at lergthxent the flimfey veil of deception and
'J r eiror, and the press, the pulpit, and our femina- c;
rics of learning are released from the terrors of v>
a mod formid.ible inquifuion. The rays of light (j
Ot have featured the clouds of delusion, and a pure v
spirit of enquiry will finally place our feet on the
firm basis of jutl thinking, and felid conclusions.
n- In some late publications otitic an ti-American fac
-1 lce tion there are strong Indications that the demon of
amchy isforely wounded ; iti writhings under the c
lash of satire are evident; the exposition and rep- r
robation of principles which have covered a great .
part of the globe with blood, are stigmatized a* 1
e e " flowing from" fsntiments unfriendly to the Rights <
: ? lv of Man"—as having for their object to excite en- i
'fiia- m ity between France and America. No—your day ]
1 t^ e is pift, ye enemies to all that is goid antl truly
de- great ye advocates of a fyllem that unmakes and
nday. marrs, but red ores and retains nothing. Our Ss
atent minaries of Learning are, thank God, under t v e
r the care of men who love their species—who believe
in a Deity and his providential fuperintsndance of
the affairs < f theuniverfe. Men who love liberty
and truth,but are firm enemies to that modern phi
t. lofophy which confounds, confufes and blends truth
w and falfbood, right and wrong, and leaves nopro
—— teilion for life, liberty and property, but the long
eft 1 sword. '
The institutions of our country areTacred ; thefr
P* ,ye wi(h to destroy. but we will support them; they
nrod, | la ve given us all the blessing? of independence ami
nii n g> fafcty. We will r.ot rclinqnifh them but with our
iiyes. Our children fhal'. be taught to revcr® what
ing* thitir fathers cherilKdi—Onr children (hail imbibe
' fentlhients of attatMient to the constitution and
:p laws r{ their country, and of avcrfion to thof
inci e, (y[^ cm s which,reduceman to automatons,4>r what
is woife, to be idolators of a blind f»nfuality, which
comprizes all its felkity in gratifying the animal
propensities of our mwure.
What ! {hall we fufTer and not complain ? '■ lie
ntents pillage of Europe is the effect of modern philoso
phy—Our exclcmvis hare juflified every atroci
ty—and now th?t our chileien are in danger of be
he use ing beggared by ihe plunderings of tjie property
ithmS. of their fathers on the high leas, forfooth they are
nation to fufftr without a murraur, left innocent youth
ailiOß. {bould be made the organs of their preceptors' ma
lice, and as f:ir as lies in their power widening the
w breach between America and l frince. This will
i-otdo. fuisltDemocrat-It is too ftaJe atrSck. b
I very Mend to the Unif' 1 - ***** dents Ol
peace—orace with the whole familyof pj ow un
It is no: fur th"; iutereft of the Unites Sutcs to .
quarrel with any pewer on < =rth yhis truth ye
knew, irfu'ly jrprechteilbr m the ad- (array, \
miniftra'inn of t:ur jrovi'rnmttnt. It is appreciated [ jddge o
hy every \ublic jo the inion —Our W ai,t a 1
-free'orn ions will not therefore he deterred by aut J, or ;i
your fl in lerii, from thinking. ftea.a.ig and pul>- ■
Wllir>g th-ir op nions with th .t frcedora which be- appiauu
4>mes unfhacldcd Americans. per circ
; . (leighte
From the C-ENIINEL of JJBERTV. jof the
Part of the power neqeffary fi>r executing 1
InW is vetted in, men who are not appointed j J
daftly by the people but by the trult- Court oj
eas of the people, and since no evil thsnce
njfuhs, all executive officers ought to be This
thus in order to prevent vio- furance
knee in competition for "lucrative offices, ex- bound f
perience proving that in pursuit of such offi- of whit
ces only ftrife among the people is railed enemy,
and corruption attempted by bellowing Mr.
llrong drink, and by base flattery. For as theplai
no one ever flatters with felfilh view 3it brough
is universally true that "those who mod flat- (hip C(
ter the people are mod ready to betray their March
true interests. visited
These thoughts are suggested by the riot examin
in Prince George's county at the late ele£t- flie hac
ion of a (heriff, which convinces me (though taken i
I once thought differently) thai the govern- ent, an
or and council, who are the trustees of the K'ing <
people and by their station men ofcharaft- as priz
er, oueht to have the appointment of fheriffs. would
. SIDNEY. ' merica
October 7. j *°
I such c
The CREDIBILITY of GAZETTES, of iafti
A TALE. I ble foi
Itj that remarkable xra, when Charles j wa3 ar
the Fifth was engaged in war with the Prfn- 1 fore U
ces 6i the Smalealdic league, a club of po- j of na.
liticians (for there were such clubs even in the I
these early days) were assembled at their 1791.
nightly rendezvous, iu Dresden, to read the tendei
papers. They found in one a fliort para- 1 withu
graph, hinting at an advantage gained by void,
the troops of the Eleftor, the particulars lawsc
of which would be publilhed in the next Ga- I been
zette. On this an antient member of the Amei
club arose, with felf-fufficient face; Gen-jof A 1
tlemen, fays he, wait not for the Gazette, to th
; I have intelligence full as good as any it can could
I afford. I have a letter from ray son Ferdi- the p
nand, written immediately after the aft.on. reflet
f ' The company called aloud for it, and he en*iu,
read as follows : 1 ."P
Honoured Sir, r ' can
1 I Have just time to tell you, that we have Amt
' gained a great viftory. The enemy was that
r polled on almost inacceflible precipices, de- enetr
fended by strong works ; yet, after a hot as p
engagement, we drove him from all. Luc- I were
3 kily there was no shelter for the routed foes cove
so we killed not a few 'A the pursuit. We one
marched at day break, but did not begin the
° action until five in the afternoon. Could we man
e have been up sooner, we might have done last.
' more mifchicf. f 1 on
"I am &c. _ ice »
Ferdinand de Kuntoch. letti
] e After he had read thiswith r omeapp!aufe, thei
J ~ ' anotbdr gentleman got up. Mr. de Knn- Ih<
toch, fays he, lam much afraid that Mi*, him
: Ferdinand, as a young man, has raised mole taki
hills into mountains ; and as to the enemy's | fror
'f having 110 shelter in their retreat, he saw ; on t
' , them where they could not be seen. Mr. j l'O
" de Kuntoch was about to reply with fofne all
. warmth, when the other proceeded to read vefl
aloud a letter he had received from his tie- this
t0 ; v on
phew.
lg Dear Uncle, a 1
SQ AU I can tell you is, that we have gam- wai
ed a viftory. The aftion lasted from morn- wh
ing till night. We scarcely saw any of to
the enemy, as the wood we engaged in was sice
P*" low® swampy, and so thick of brush, that wh
'"of we oould scarcely make our way through it. cot
in- I am, &c. Co
nut Gustavus Meningehode.
:rl " The whole company gazed with wonder wa
[°® on each other ; when a third gentlemen a- in
rose, and without deigning to make use of of
10ft any prelude, but that of casting a contemp- gr<
tuous sneer on each of the two disputants, wl
opened another Wtter, and read as follows : thi
" O J,' My Dear Sir,
inn' This day has been brilliant as to fight and pr<
test fuceefs. The enemy never gave us so open th
mi- a f ro nt. A fine champain country, with- th
out hedge, ditch, or any impediment to to
and obftruft our operations. The march of the ge
ina- cavalry to charge each other, in a plain Bi
1 of where there was no shelter nor advantage to wi
'!?bt b # taken, formed a glorious scene. I ain hi
r ,s , re weary, so mull conclude. • ' an
l , he Yours, &c. cr
"f iC . Frederick Smidstz. te
>n of At the conclusion of this account, of ui
r the eontradidlory to both the others, the elub q'
re P" remained for sometime fileat. and then fell tl
into a violent altercation. The veracity of w
ights all partieswas doubted in turn, and such n
: en- was their animosity, that a society of two d
r(la y hundred years Handing was about to fuffer c.
" n] y final dissolution, when"an old officer, who tl
'had long been looked on as a strange incom- v
:r raunicative man, said, gentleman, I can ea- o
Jieve fily fettle this business. I will prove, that p
ice of eac h „f these letters contains a true date of t
hert ? the faft, to the bed of the writers obferva- 11
truth l ' on * Here is a note from a field officer, v
, pro. who knows as much as any man, yet knows (
long- but little of the matter.
Dear Sir, j
these -^r e are T iftorious. The enemy was post- 1
ce'and cd with llis left entrcnchcfl ln the Harfpung 1
th our mountains | his right occupied the wood of 1
I what Glubd ; and his center a fine plain, near the
village of WeidneidftHeighterueiglit. Our
n , right was ordered to defile by IClobleift to
_ take his left in flanK, our left and centre
which attacked his front. The battle was not so
inimal decisive as it might have been, a3 we could
not reach the mountains till five in the e
?..!rh' vening. We know not'how many fell iu
atroci- 'he wood, as the underwood was thick.
■of be We mowed down numbers in the plain. As
to any more particulars, you know enough
he y arf of aftion to {know the of giv
t youth t jj cra w ; t jj truth.
r* ma- o #
ing the Yoors, See.
his will Now, gentlemen, how eafj 1* this recon-
filed, by- supposing your three correfpoa- ned,be
dents on the right, the left, and the centre. On brtai
How unjust is it then to denand from indivi- tion or
j duals an account of the operations of the much l
I array, v.-hich few hot the commander can Amen
( jddge of, and wliofe account, if you will related
wait a little, you will foou fee pubhfhed by By th
authority? Thecompany affected with loud given <
applause to their new oracle, and the bum- be aft
per circulated to the battle of Weidnerdft- the cc
. fleiVhterrieiffht, and a speedy publication really
! of the Gazette. ™
i - ■ ' . aad he
LAW INTELLIGENCE. in a ye
Court of ling's bench, London, 'July 24, 1797- ky
HeARSY, &C. VS. SwAtiSON. NoW <
This was an adtion upon a policy of in- tion oi
furauLT to recover the fubfcunjtioti on a (hip teral j
bound from Lifbou to London, in the courf* prize I
of which voyage (lie was captured by the the lai
enemy. fubfilt
Mr. Law Hated the cafe on the part of
the plaintiff. He said, that the adtion was court
brought upon the policy underwritten on the that t
{hip Commerce, which failed on the 14th of nio C
• March from Lisbon. On the 17th (he was Amer
visited by a French (hip ; her papers being' were r
examined, (he was allowed to proceed ; b'Jt hadnc
• (he had not proceeded long before (he was confe
1 taken a second time' and carried into l'Ori- ter ac
- ent, and was totally loft to the owner, fne that (
; V.'ing condemned, together with her cargo, ter, t
!. as prize to the enemy. The only question (hew
would be, whether (he was or was-not an A- corvh
• merican veflel ? If (he was, (he was entitled re put
Ito all the rights of neutral nations, and as laid,
I such came under the rule of law as a subject to fh
. of insurance, and the underwriters were lia- from
I ble for thelofs. In order to (how that (he thift
g I was an American veflel, it would appear be- right
- } fore the jury that the captain had his letter M
i-l of naturalization on board, and a rcgifter ?if duce
n the United States of America, dated in tenci
[ r I 179 1. Hfc understood it wa6 to be con
e tended that the register was not renewed gefte
1-1 within 3 years, and that therefore it was was
y void. He found no such proyition in the The
rs laws e£ America ; besides, thia (hip had not hira
a- I been in a situation to renew her reglfter in thor
ie j America. It wai an American veflel, built this
n-1 of American materials, and as fully entitled the
e, j to the protection of neutrality as any vessel . prov
in could be. He really did not know what j I
li- I the poihts were on which the defendants . the
n. reftedjtfieir cause ; if they had any, it was , por.
he I enough for his client in this action tnat the . iucl
j (hip was an American (hip, built of Ame- 1 of
I rican materials, and that the capt. was an seal
ve 1 American fubjeft by virtue of naturalization; al w
as I that he and the (hip were captured by the je£i
le- I enemy, and the (hip and cargo condemned per
lot las prize to the enemy. All these points wit
jc-1 were fufficient to entitle the plaintiff to re- lie
es, cover the fubfeription money, which was the
Ve one hundred jfotind. P"
;he Mr. Antonio Caftize said he was com- pol
we mander of the (hip Commerce, in March coi
>ne last. That he failed on the Bth of March alf<
from Liflxm. That he was a native of Ven- re<£
I ice, naturalized m America. That he had otl
' I letters of naturalization, but the Frencb took vac
ife, J them from him when the (hip was captured, lea
un- These documents never were returned to up
VTi*. him. That on the 17th of March he was po:
lole taken by the French while'on his voyage mi
iy'B from Li(bon to London- K# was released he
saw on the 2lft, but taken again and carried to hit
Mr. ' l'Orient, when tht French took from him as
>me ' all his papers. That he had an American to
•ead veflel before this which he exchanged for
toe- this. The papers belonging to both were
on board this, and the French took them ag
all, arid never returned him any. 1 hat he pe
ain- was made prifojier at l'Orient, and that th
orn- while he was in confinement a perlon came it
f of to him faying, he was authonfed by the of
was fleers of the' Province to give him a paper, th
that which he produced in court, which paper A
hit. contained the condemnation of the (hip
Commerce, as prize to the French Republic. tl
E. Mr. Efkriue stated for the defendant,who w
nder was his own fruiterer, and who wa6 interfiled d
;n a- in the voyage in question ; and in the course 1
fe of of the market of these articles there was a 1
:mp- great fluctuation, particularly in time of war; tl
mts, when a number of vessels came home toge- c
>ws : thcr, the price of the market fell. In the v
interval, before the coming of convoy, to c
tand protect another fleet from the lame place, p
open the price of the market fell again. It. was, r
,vith- therefore, of great advantage in this trade, f
it to to bring over the cargoes previous to the p
fthe general arrival of the (hips under convoy, t
plain But if any person wished to run over a (hip n
Te to without convoy, the premium was un'ufually c
lam high, and such as trade would hardly bear, t
and therefore a great numher of (hips were c
employed as neutral because the underwri- t
■r. terst will underwrite them at a lower pretrii- <
it,' of um. Such vessels as that which was now in c
elub question, were picked up by merchants, and i
■n fell they pretended to-be neutral. This captain, 1
ityof who had stated himfelf to be a Venetian, 1
such might as well have lent his veflel to the
f two doge of Venice to wed the Adriatic as to
fuffer call upon the,defendant to answer in this ac
who tion.—lt was stated, th,at the only question
ncom- would be. in this cafe whether the veflel was
an ea- or was not an American veflel entitled to the
, that prote&ion of neutrality ? That certainly was
ate of the question ; in difcufling which it would
jferva- not be fufficient to (hew that (lie was built
jfficer, with American timber. It ought to be
knows (hewn that (he was a veflel entitled to all the
benefits of neutrality, and that (he was
from capture by the laws of war. "It was
is post- not the delivery of any paper by the assured
rfpung to the underwriter, that constituted evidence
-ood of in such a cafe as this. It ought to be made
ear the mamfeft, that the (hip was not made a law-
Our ful prize, he admitted that the underwriter
eift to was liable 5 tor the assured in such a cafe as
centre this could not warrant that injustice (hould
not so not be done by a belligerent nation to the
e could (hips of neutral powers. But upoti the au
-1 the e- thority of a cafe decided by lord Mansfield, |
fell iu it was clear.that if the vessel was not entitled
to the benefits of neutrality, the underwriter
iin.'As could not be liable for any loss ocpafioned
enoufh by her capture, that indeed was the eftablifh
0f g|/_ ed principle of the law. He quoted also
13 the opinion delivered by lord Kenyon in a
recent cafe in which' his lord(hip had laid it
6 recon' don-n as a rule that a fliip might be condem-
Ned, bcc&ufe (he had no fufllcicnt docutncnt
Ori board to prove her neutrality.- The quef- '
tioii on this cafe was to be governed very
much by the treaty between the two nations, -
America and France, and that part which
related to this queflion was the 25th article. -
By this article, that evidence, should be
given of their that, there should
be a sea-letter and passport, and thename of
the commander of the ship, (hewing that
really and truly the ship was neutral. The
ship mull have been recalled within a year,
aad her certificate renewed if returned with
in a year. The paflport was also to be figu
ed by the ftrefident of the United States.
Now wc should fee whether the condemna
tion of this ship proceeded upon any colla
teral points, or whether (be was 3 regular
prize to the Fretich republic, according to
the laws of war and the rights of rations, - as
fubfilting between America and France.
Here he read the sentence of the adm ralty
court of I'Orient, by which it was Hated
that the vessel called the Commerce, Anto
nio Caiftze, commander, was a pretended
American vessel, that the papers
of the proper form; that the captain
hadnot thefea-letter required; that the capt„
confefled he had failed without the. sea-let- .
ter and the paflport ; and the judgrr.ept of
that court pronounced upon.the whole mat
ter, that the Commerce had no right to
(hew American colors, and therefore she was
corylemned as a lawful prize to the Fren~h
republic. Having done t\M, Mr.. Erfkine _
said, he apprehendej he had done enough
to (hew, that the undewriter must be released
from all the consequences of the capture of
: this veflel, and that the plaintiff had no
right to recover in this adtion.
r Mr. Bowman proved the translation pro
f duced was a correct tranflatios of the fen
i tence of the court of admiralty iit I'Orient.
Mr. Law, on behalf of the plaintiff, fug- .
i gefted, that there was rro evidence that this ■
s was the fenter.ci of the court at I'Orient. ,
e The witness had only said it wa» brought to
t him by a person who said he came from an- .
n thority ; there was- nothing to (hew that
It this was not an assumed authority. That
d the fcal of the court ouglit to have been
el proved, &c.
at i Lard Kenyon said, that as to proving
ts ! the ftal of the court, or of ar.y other cor
as i porate body, he was quite sure that no
le 1 such thing was ever done ; he never heard
,e- Sos such a thing being done in hisiife. A
an seal of any court, or of any corporation,
n; always proved As to the other ob
he je£tian, that there was no proof that the
ed person who brought the document to the'
its witness, while in prison, had any authority,
re- he thought he was bound to take that au
ras thority for granted. If he required better
proof of that fa£l, he might require an im
m- pofTibility. And as to the decision of the
•ch court of admir Ity in France, he was bound
•ch also to take it for granted that it was cor
;n- reft. Courts of admiralty regarded .each
lad other's decifious every where ; they per
ok vaded every part of the civilized world, at
ed. least he hoped 10, for they were founded
to upon one geijeral principle of jufhee. Thefc
i/as points should be saved, so that Mr. Law
ige might bring the matter before the court, if
fed he choose it, but his lprdfhip thought
to himfelf bound to take all theft- proceedings
lim as regular, and therefore he ordered them
c?n to be read.
for The policy of insurance was also read,
■ere Lord Kenyon said, he was of opinio*
rem the plaintiff in this aftion. The
he policy itleif amounted to a warrant, that
hat the vessel was an American vessel, and that
ame it was within the proteftion of France.
of- }Ar. Law said, that upon the fase. of
oer, this sentence, they had Rated the law of
[per America entirely, and not. their own law.
(hip Lord Kenyon said, he really did not fee
)lic. that. They ajfpred law to the faft. This
who was a sentence of the court of admiralty,
lied deciding on the rights of all the parties,
urfe There certainly was 110 ambiguity here,
ras a There were dated certain requisites to enti
war; tie this ship to the proteftion of an Ameri
oge- can veflel. They were enumerated. ,It
1 the was dated that these requisites were not
, to complied with'; that the captain had no
lace, passport anil fen-letter, eyd th3t he had no
was, right to (hew American colours, and there
•adc, fore concluded that the ship was a lawful
the prize. It was efTential to us to pay :*ten
voy. tion to the decisions of their eouits of ad
fhip miralty, for they always paid attention to
irally ours; and we had much moreof.tbefe cases
bear, than they had. It was efTential to all the
were commercial nations of the earth to pr*y at
rwri- tention to the decisions of each other's
retrii- courts of
jw in of any complaints against them, except one
, and from the king of Pruflia, who said, "he
itain, did not undcrlland that your lawyers should
;tian, decide any cafe ; , that four cannon were
0 the much better." His lordship said he was
as to early of opinion that the plaintiff ought
is ac- not to recover in thisa&ion. If Mr. Law
eftion thought that opinion was wrong, he might
el was bring the qneftion before the court upon a
to the motion for a new trial ; his lordfliip added,
|y was that he wiflied the. motion ta be made, for
would he always wished that his opinion should be
1 built reviewed.
to be The plaintiff was nOn-fuittJ
all the ■ . —■ —- _ _
as f<ee Public Notice is.hereby given,
It wa.S TH&T theJfnnui 1 i iTionrr*••inr. the iWtri.it of
I (lured So«ithwa r k h»vtf
idence r ' rmcr 'Y occupied hy Samuel QofF, rn Chrifti.i'n at
, the corner J*lsh flreer. o<ft. 1.
5 made . : , ■»
a ! ? w - MEDICINES.
rwriter • ■
OF evry kimt, nserff ary firileftk r'fr. ?a.
IhoulQ ' Barleyi and Oatmel, for'diet drink, will be
to the deliyercd gratis, Vurinp the prefmt contagion, to
the ail- th-fe who are unable to pay for.it, at Hunter's
nsfield, Laboratory, No. 114. South Second Street.
rwriter _ _ MEDICINES.
afioned
lablifh- THE Porr who may find it inconvenient, fro*
j ir diftanic, to make use of Mr. Hunter's truly me
ritorious offer, will be fupplled with medicinef—
-311 in a £ l go i barley, oatmeal, &c. by ap-!yinfr at tlw
1 laid it fubfcribcr's 11 ore. No. j6, Market-flreet.
ondem- ROCB&T S. SYAJi'QRD,r- —►' —~v"*
By this day's
1 7
KEW YORK, OSober"i4.
RECEPTION OF THE PRESIDENT.
The following arrangements, we are in
formed, are mad" for the reception of the
Prefident'of the United States, who is ex
pefted Iff tbwti ou Monday next :
brigadier General Hughes, with two
troops of hurfe, the officers of the brigade,
and citizen; on horfebnek and in 'carriages,
will leave' Hunter's hotel at half part nine ,
o'clock, and proceed to the bridge at
Haetlem, where they will receive the Presi
dent on his firfl: arrival in the county, and
will efcoi t him td the city.
The grenadier? and infantry of the brigade
under the commsnd of colonel Morton will
be Rationed at the suburbs, near the Bull's
Head inn; and op the arrival of the Prefidcnt
the troops will wheel by platoons, and the 1
proceflion will move down Broadway and
Wall-street to Broad-street. On the arrival j
of the troops at the head of Broad-street, j
the line will be formed from the head of that ;
street to Mr. Avery's; (the President's in- j
tended place of residence) and the President I
■will pass the line and receive the usual mili-j'
tary honors. The troops will again wheel j
by platoons, and perforfli the marching fa-!
lute. (,
On the arrival of the President at the 1'
suburbs of the ckv, Captain Ten Eyck wiV |
fire a federal falnte from the Battery, which |
will be returned from the fort on Governor's i
Island. The flipping in the harbour will, ;
we presume, pay the accustomed compli
ments on the occasion.
MELANCHOLY ACCIDENTS.
Lift Tuesday night, on board of a vefTel j 1
coming down the Hudson, one M'Donald
and one —' ■ ~ fell into a dispute, in which
M'Donald clinched the other to heA*e him
overboard ; and being both locked, they
went over together, the vefTel going five
knots. The boat was instantly got out, and
the men taken up—M'Donald was re ani
mated, but the other died. On this dead
body, we underfland, a jury of inquest fat
on Wednesday, and adjudged, that he died
through the inflrumentality of M'Donald,
who wa3 soon after committed.
A poor woman fell down a flight of ftsirs,
(he was not aware of, and broke her neck,
in W:iter-flreet, on Wednesday.
Last Friday a man was found dead in
Hacrlem woods.
BOSTON, Oft. 11.
The-French Executive Direftory has fe»
verely condemned the " deliberative" addrefT
es &c. of the armies.
The recal of Viftor Hugues, the prince
of pirates, is confirmed by letters from Gua
daloupe.
From Charleston, Sept. 19. Captain
Findley, from Petit-Trou, informs, that the
diflenfions whinh had prevailed for some time
pafl between the dire&ory at the Cape and
gen. Rigaud are fettled, in consequence of
Which the I (land is in a ninth mnrepeice
ahle ft ate than it was before. He fays the
inhabitants of the Island, generally, speak
in the highest terms of difapprobatiou of
the eommiflioning arm<d boats and small
privateers to capture American veflels
they fay it is a disgrace to the republic, and
their earned wiflies are that a stop may be
put to it.
LITERARY BENEVOLENCE.
The author of the merican Spectator, at
the time thisplcafmgarf? ufeful work waspub
liftied, announced bis intention to appropri
ate the whole of the profits arising from its
sale, to charitable uses. So well has this
Work been received by the public, tTiat we
art happy to learn, that irt conformity with
the author's benevolent dedgn, SEVENTY
FIVE DOLLARS of the profits already
arisen from the work, have been transmit
ted, by Mr. David Weft, to the fufferers by
the late fire in Savannah ; and FIFTY
to the Convention of Congre
gational MinisterS of this Commonwealth,
to be distributed by therrv among the' indi
gent widow 3of deceased ministers. Foe the
latter handsome and well applied donation,
the author received the following vote of
thanks, viz.
" The author of the American Speftator
having through thi hands oi Mr. David
Weft, hi* bookseller, prefentM to the Con
vention, FIFTV DOLLARS, to be by
■ them distributed, with the other monies
contributkd for the fame purposes, among
the indigent widows of deceased ministers ;
whereupon
Voted, That the thanks of this Conven
tion be presented to the benevolent donor,
through Mr. David \Veft, for
donation."
Attest, JED. MORSE, Scribe
of the Convention.
A work so valuable and entertaining in
itfelf, and doubly ufeful in its fruits, cannot
fail of receiving the generous patronage of
the judicious, humane and benevolent part of
the community.
PORTSMOUTH, "(N. H.) Ofto. 7.
We are authorised by a eorrefpondent to
fay, " That a few days previous to the em
barkation of Satnhonax from St. Domingo,
a number of Americans, merchants and
captains, signed 3 flattering address to hire
of thanks for his particular and kind attentiou
to the Americans in general, for the benefit
they had derived from -a man of his Supe
rior [devil-like~\ abilities.—This rascally pe
tition was signed by twenty felf-achiowledg
ed Americans, who by this aft the greater
part may be called felf acknowledged villains,
and as such esteemed by the few remaining
honed Americans. The address was wrote
in French and presented to the Americans
to sign, by Mr, Wilson, (Barney's agent)
flippofed to be proposed by Santbonax.
We learn, that Santhonax carried with
him from St. DoraingOj five roiilions ster
ling, in cash. '
XJk Oajrttf.
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, Octobsr it.
■ 'M' "■ .1 : .1' ' "J!?"" - .
Total of burials for 24 hours, ending Satur"
day at noon.
Grown I'ciforw. Children
Sr. Pe'er's I o
Third Prefbyteiian 1 o
Friend* 1 o
Gerrmn Lutheran I O
lliiirerWids o I I
VottcPs Field o I ,
City f lofpitalf 6 o
II 2
'•f - From lie city
The number of Hetthi on the 54th of Oilober
I"p3.''waK 81. j
_____
Total number of Interments during she
lafl: 48 hours, 23.
Died, on Saturday laftj-'Dr. Samuil
Pleasants, jun. son of Mr. Samuel Plea
fants, , merchant, of this city. He had but
a few months since returned from Europe,
whither he had gone to complete his (Indies.
Dr. Pleafants was one of the five physi
cians composing the visiting committee;
and is the third who has fallen a viftim to
his own benevoleace and public spirit.
'• Griai monarch ! foe, depriv'd of viral breath,
" A yciirg Flwfician in the dust of death :
" CoC thou go ( n incc(Tan' tr>d.(lroy,
" Our g-ir f» to doulili*, and lay wife our joy ?5
" ,Ei.i>i/rl> ih'Mi ncvL-r yet waft krmvn to r ay,
" Thou h"hundted«« *He the vassal* of *hy fwly:
" Nor y,utb, nor fc<tme, nor the ties of lovr,
" Vor aught on earth thv Bia-y heart c m movi.
" Clo»'d are hi»fye«, and hea\y fctteri keep
'* Hi* TenTm houftd in never-wakin? fje p,
" Till jimr 'V*ll eeafe, till many a flarry wort
" Shall fa'l frrm heav'n, in dire eonfufion hurl'd ;
" Till nature in her 6na' wreei r afll lie,
" And her la 1 jrroan fha'l rend the amre fity * t
" Not, r.ot till thri: hisaifl.ve fool (h ill (.lain |
" Hu body, a Jivire immortal frame.
CI 1 Ft ienj y I
And east the load o anguif.i'fpim thine heart :
To Haven,
"There fixthy view whereflettTthan the wir i,
" 'Thy" Vi.easants ' tnounti, ind leave* the eat h
behind "
■ Thyrelf prepare to psfc the vale of night. .
11 To join forev ron the hill' of light: r
" He welcome* rh 'e to plejfur-s more refiu'd
" \*d hcttsr suited. T.i th imm rta' mitfrt"**'*^
Died, on Saturday evening last, Dr. E.
Clf.mert, Druggist, corner of Lodge alley
and Second ftree.
ELECTION.
. Philadelphia city and county return.
County Commijfioner.
City. County. Total.
Jacob Souder 850 1546 2
Jacob Kehmle 412 co 472
York County Eleßion.
senator. 4
John Stewart.
ASSEMBLY.
Thomas Campbell, Philip Gartner,
Alexander Turner, Wm. McPherfon,
Jacob Hochfteter, James Kelly.
Lancejler Elcdion.
Jeremiah Brown, Richard Keys,
Abram Carpenter, Alexander Scott,
Jacob Stricjhjfr, John Hopkins.
The divisions in Montgomery county,
h<ive unfortunately aided the fhameful in
trigues of the Jacobin fa&ion in introducing
two democratic candidates in the (late le
gislature. But it was not, as ignorantly
and impudently alTerted in the Aurora, a
contest between order and disorganization.
The decided federalifm of Montgomery
county could not be more clearly evinced
than by the infamous and underhanded in
trigues carried on there by "the faftion :—».
Too weak to (hew themselves openly, they
fought to perpetrate their designs by raoft
pitiful, dirty and dark manoeuvres. The
eleftion has resulted in the choice of two of
their creatures ; and this is owing rather to
the divisions amongst the federalifts, than to
any efforts of the faftion.
Mr. Bellew, abiurdly counted upon as a
jacobin, we are confidently assured, is a firm
federalift.
The eleftion of Mr. M'Clellan into the
Senate, is dated in the Aurora of this morn
ing, to be e triumph of Jacobinism. We
art happy to assure the public, that this idea
is totally falfe and groundless ; —Mr M'-
0|ell»n is not only a man " whose weight
will be thrown into the republican scale,"
but also a decided Federalill.
Cj* The hufmefs ofthe CUSTOM-HOUSE,
•will from this day be tranfaSed ait Chestsr
for fame time.
Sept. 30.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Pour of Philadelphia.
ARRIVED
Came up from quarantine,
Ship jinn and Mary, Billif St. Thomas
Brig Minerva, -Long, Havanna
Alexandria, Wheeler, Gonaives
Mary, Shiandrill, . Guernsey
Schr. Peggy, Duncan, Savannah
Fancy, Copperthivaile,
Shop Lucy, Wallace, L'Ance a Veaux
Philadelphia and New-Tori Packet,
Rujftl, Arquin
Arrived at the Fort. . Days,
Schr. Katy, Dillingham, C. N. Mole 20
j /inalctb, Frazier, Port-au-Prince 18
Little Will, I aglefon, do. 23
Fox, Kidneys. do. 24
Capt. Quandrill, of brig Mary, arrived
here on Friday from Guernsey, was chafed
in the English channel by a privateer for 12
hours. Capt. Quandrill sprung his foremaft
with the weight of fail he carried to escape
the pirates—the Frenchmen finding they
could not come up with her, gave over the
purfrtit, thus by fupcrior failing was a va
luable dtorgo preserved from falling into the
hands of the republicans.
NeVi-Torl, OS. 14.
arrived,
Brig Bran a, , Leghorn, 3 months
Ich'r Sally* Heffifley, Halifax
From the log-book of the ship Edinburgh
Packet, captain Farquerfon, 63 days from
Leith.
September 2, was boarded by a French
velTel of 24 guns, prize to the Andrrvneda
English frigate, then in company, having a
large Dutch ihip in toi*, her prize—lat. 42,
10, long 42*
i September ii» spoke the br.g Benjamin
! Franklin, from Philadelphia bound to Bor
. dcaux, out 17 days, all well. Same day!
spoke a brig from North-Caroliria bound to ' '
Liverpool, out 23 days—lat. 40,' long. 35. !
The frigate Thetis was feeo at anchor
about 7 miles to the fcrathvvard flf Saody
1 Hook, on Wcdnefd.ay afternoon. The Pre
' vovante had gone to take a cruise off >he ■
Capes of Delaware.
BOSTON, OCT. 11. i
Fraternity.—Capt. Dunbar, from St.
Croix, in lat. 23, N. long. 65, 35, W. was
boarded by a French priviteer brig, from
Guadaloupe, the capt.»f which, with five
of his crew; came on board and demanded
Capt. D's papers ; after examiaation, or
dered his sbefts and trunks to fee opened—
took from them a'l the money and letters
took all the flock cabin (lores, fpar£ rig
ging, faili and blocks—one cask of rtjm, &c.
—fuffered his people to Ileal even knives arid
forks, spoons, tumblers, and every article
remainiog in the cabin. The privateer
captain put on board us two seamen taken
from the brig Favourite, SciiTon, of Balti
more, and Mr. Taylor, supercargo, with a
cargo of jo,ooo dollars. He a!fa wiflied to
get rid of Cspt. Sciflon and Mr. Taylor,!
but they infiflcd on (laying aboard the pri
vateer ar.d know the (lat? of their property, I
which fpinted behaviour produced a caridufk
unworthy a man, for on their refufal to quit j
.the privateer, the capt.'vfoinmt/n/y Jlojrged
them j Several other American rrjpfters and 1
seamen were on board tluV.priyatt'er, among
them was Mr. John Barnes, qf Marblehead.
Before the privateer left us, (he took a (loop
. from Rhode-Wand, capt.-Briggs, bound to
Cape-Francoi#. The captain of the priva
teer to finiih his brutal behaviour, threaten
ed to punilh capt. Dunbar—difnoiffed him
with a curse on his country, and a determi
nation to rob every American vessel that
could not be made a prize of. Capt, Moul
ton, arrived at Beverly, from Gonaives,
wlicre he was carried in by a small French
cruiser, and detained 4 days ; but by paying
a sum of money was permitted to depart.
Capt. M. has been boarded by several other
French cruisers, and plundered of merchan
dize, provisions and money. He has also
been boarded by two Britifli men of war,
and by them treated politely.
* [The above instance of unbearable insult,
(tho publifliedbefore in this Gazette) ap
peared too proper a concomitant to that da
ted under the Portsmouth head, not to be
handed to the public along with it.]
Salem, (Maff.J Oftober 10.
/iKitrfD. From
Brig Three Friends, Endicott, Surinam
Schr. Sally, Baker, , Bitboa
Sloop Francis & Mary, Collins, Liverpool
Arrived, fchr. Sally, 5 1 days from St.
Übes. Left there, brig Hannah, Follatjlbe,
of Havethill, to fail in 10 days. Ship E
liza, Borrowdale, of Alexandria. A vessel
for New-York, John Brown, mailer. Brig
Dryads, H altun > Norfolk. Indullry,
Shaw, of Boston ; brig Be'tfey, Norton,
do j (hip John, Follet, of Portland. Ship
Arrived at Beverly, the Bth iuft. thefch.
Hope, Tarbox Mouhofi, nvifter, 34 days
from Petit Gtiave, and 2.3 from Gonaives,
where he was carried in by a French cruizer
and there detained four days ; but by pay
ing a sum of money to the owner ps the pri
vateer, he obtainedpermiffion todepart with
out a formal trial. Capt. M. has been board
ed by several other French cruieers, and
plundered of several articles of merchandize
and provisions, and some money; he has
also been boarded by two r ßrki(h men of
war, and by them treated puhtely. He
: spoke off Cr.pe Nichola Mole, the brig Bet
" fey of Boston, from Norfolk, and the brig
e Rofanna, Archer, of Salem, both bound
3 to Jamaica.
The brig Favorite, from New-York, for
J Bourdeaux, was spoke in lat. 45. long. 28,
ail well.
Capt. Endicott'lcft at Surinam, 37 days
ago, (hip Liberty, Sheldon, of Providence,
» (hip Franklin, Bounce, of Philadelphia;
* (hip Thomas, Clark, do. brig Sally, Hotch
kifs, New-London ; brig , Alger,
Providence ; fchr. , Brown, Glouce
(ler. Spoke a schooner from Boston, bound
*• to Surinam, R. Stover, master. S«pt. 24,
was boarded by the Resolution of 74 guns,
lat. 35, 13, long,
spoke (hip Dolphin from Providence. 26th,
spoke biig General Warren, lat. 39, 30,
lyng. 67, 20, from Boston for St. Bar
r s thclomews.
a ——
•1 Portsmouth, ( iV. H.) OElultr 7.
y Arrived here the brig Brothers, capt.
h Kennard, in 23 days from Grenada, who
- has handed us the following for publication?
x ' Capt. Kennard, of the brig Brothers,
I on hit. passage from Grenada to Port/mouth,
n jN. H. in lat 19, 20, N. arid long. 63, 30,
, 'W. September was boarded by a
o ! small privateer schooner, of one carriage
8 gun, 30 men, 6 whites, the reft coloured ;
3 under Eugliih cojours, but afterwards hoift
-4 ed French. They immediately carried capt.
d Kenuard, with two of his people, on board
d the schooner, there the capt of the pirates,
2 ! (for he can call them no better) ordered two
ft negroes to (trip capt. K. which they did
ie even to his (hirt, while the reft flood with
y naksd swords at his bread if he offered to
,e make the lead resistance. They robbed
j- him of his pocket-book, containing bills
, e of exchange to the amopnt of 13501. and
several other gapers of considerable value,
took"; ills watch fidm Liu pocket, but that
returned with great relti&ance, abus
ing him to til* lad degree, telling birfl thcVf
they would set fire to his brig if he did not
tell where his money vrw. While that was
doing, about 8 or 10 of the pirates fell to
ruuiaging the brig ; they plundered every
neeeffary article they could put their hands
on, took from the cabin 3 or 4 dozen of |
wine and poster, 1 cafe fpii its, about 1 zlb. .
figar, and some coffee, which was all capt.
K. had, the mate begging them to be ho
nourable enough to leave part, but to np
purpofi ; they also took some crockery
ware, one cafe razors, one pair dividers,
the captain's quadrant', which he set great
flore by, the mitf'-t daily afiiftant, and sun
dry other articles, striking the mate on the
bread, and pointing their swords at him if
he offered to refill. They likewise took
out of the brig one bbl. beef, 1 do. bread,
2 casks water, 2 coils rope, 1 coil ratline,
I bundle points, I hammer, 1 plain, 1 '■ ]
hand pump, gimblets, nails of different
kinds, several blocks, several hooks and
thimbles, 1 royal,' 1 steering-sail boom,
balls of spun-yarn, lamp-black, fire-wood,
&e. &c. They robbed capt. Kennard's
people of some sea-stores arid clothes ; such
piratical proceeding these villains were
guilty of
By this time it growing dark they order
ed the remaining crew on board the brig
to assist them in hoiftinjr out the long-boat,
threatening them with rndqnt death if they
offered to refufe. They unbent the brig's
main top-mad stay-sail, and pui it in the
boat, together with all their plunder ; at 8 .
o'clock in the evening they gave Capt. j
Keanard his two people, and they cAme on
board his vessel in a diftreffmg situation.
The lad conyiliment from them was
" DAMN your PRESIDENT, CON- ■
GRESS V , and ALL AMERICA, for, •
making a Treaty with Great Britain." | •
Cnpt. K. hoisted in his boat, with a deal ,
of trouble, and proceeded onhispaffage to •
lamcnt-hia cruel usage.
N/vTh'l Kennard, mnjltti
Hirm Coffin, mate, > AtleJUd.
Wm. Cole, seaman, J
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front Street,
HAVE FOR SALE,
100 Hogsheads of prime Georgia Tobacco,
ALSO,
50 Pipes of Bonrdeanx Brandy,
10 Pipes of old Port Wine
-0(0. 17. lawtf.
Peale's Museum.
THIS valuable repository of the works of Ma
ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the underftandmg, i» opened daily, as
usual. It (lands In an airy and healthy situation,
and'free from the epidemic that at present afflicts
the city ; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the greatest fafety.
As an Ainuferaent, the <ludy of Nature is the
molt rational and pleating : as a Science, the meft
sublime and infiruitive. It elevates the mind and
espands the heart. They
41 JVism Nature* 11vtrkt can charm, with God bimfelf
" Hold CQjiverJe'*
Many interetfine additions have lately bfen
made to this Xtufeum : and the feathered tribe,
containing a variety of the m«.l rare and beautiful
fubjeiU, is now very advantageously arranged
Wtxen Figures, of Men large as life (some of them
c*fl» from nature) are here their proper
habits,and placed in attitudes charafterivftic ol their
refpe(9ive*iiations H 're may be fecß the North-
Atr.ericnn Savage, and the >avjge ef South-Ameri
ca— a laboring Chinese, and the Cftinefe Gsntle
iuin—t,.e foDty African, and the Karrtfthadik—
with feme Naa/tfi o' the South Sea I (land*. The
immendi varktv and intcrefting diversity which
this Mofcum offer- to the view may be seen but
I cannot be described with full tfff-A.
:£f" Price only l-4tliof a dollar,
ieyt. a 3. law
THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GRRENLEAF,
HEREBY (jive.Tiotice, that they have disposed
of the property affigried to them for the fceurirg
the payment of the (tote , acceptances, and cn
dorfeinents given by Edward Fo», for the use
ofthdfaid James Greenleaf; and the holders of
luch notes, acceptances, arid endorsements, a-e
hereby notified that the fubferibers will fettle
with them for the amount of their refpeflive
claims, both principal arid interest, at
any tipie l efore tlie acth day of October next;
alter which dav, :hc holder* net applying, w ijl
be excluded, agreeably to the term* of afiigr(-
ment.
Applications to be made at fonth-eaft comer
of Dock and Second fireets (the Dock llrcet
fide), between the Jaourt of and one 0'
elock every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
■ Tho. IV. Francis,
John Miller, Jun.
John AJhley,
Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, Ai»gi>ft 18, 1797. <1
An UMBRELLA
i WA? taken (supposed to have been stolen) on
, Sunday evening last, from the houfc occupied by
•Mr. Plunt, No 9, Strawberry-ftrdct:—lt i»agrren
' fi'k Umbrella., of the middle fizc, with a red mo
-1 rocco top and hooked ivory hca-i.—Conceiving it
' to have been taken by some pilfering knave, who;
\ a&tiartd by pscuniary motives, may endeavor to
. vend the'fame, any perfan or persons to whom the
laid Umbrella may be offered,are i)op it;
and it is hoped, will apprehend and convi<ft ihe
thief to justice. The peculiarity of the Umbrella
will, evidently, tlit- poflTefTor to \letcAion ;
therefore, whoever apprehends the fame and deliv
, ers it at Mr. Blu it'a, from whence it was taken,
.. or at Mr. Fecno's (hall be handsomely re
warded. o<fl. 3. —d3t
■fiv£ dollars rewarix
' 1
1 <) an awny from the fubferiber, an indented
: I_"V Servant Girl, linmed Kakcy Anderson, a
: hont twenty Veai'b of. age, ftort, thick fetperfon,
. with short black h.itr ; had on when (he went away,
a dark calico gown, an old black silk cloak, and a
I bWck fur hat. Wfeoc v. r will l'ccure laid girl, and
jjive information thereof to tke fubferiber,. No. 2,
1 Greenleaf alley, or to the office of this Gazette,
' {hall receive the above reward.
[ All persons arc forbid harboring fa Id girl, as
, they will be dealt -with as the la-y dir«fl«
MARY ANDERSON,
! N. B. SaiJ Girl i<; from Ireland, and has teen is
thu Country but a ftort'time ; (he wasfent to the
' warkrbcub fur. miiconi'n'ft, where (he was taken
i sick and removed to tije city-hofpitil, from which
, place Olf made her escape.
PHILADELPHIA,
MO\'DA T £r. r .VI.VG, OCTOBER 16.
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
From 14th to 15th'Oft. in the morning'#
Admitted, since Is.ft report,
Catharine Coojcy—Davis's alley, Catharin*?*
street
Daniel Rofs ditto ditto
Edward Edwards—Greenwood-lane
Rcbert Butles—Northern Liberties
Peggy M'Donald—Front, below Christian
street
Regaining last report 49
Admitted since g
t ' ♦ ' 4A " k
54
I>i(charged None
Died None —— O
Four of whom are dangerous.
Tn erred since last report. t
From city and suburbs i
Hospital o
Total 1
Stephen Girard.
(Signed) Caleb Lownes.
John Connelly.
Publilhed by order of the Board,
Wm. MONTGOMERY,
Chairman pro tern;
CITY. HOSPITAL REPORT,
From 15th to 16th erf Oft. ill the morn#
Admitted since last report :
Daniel M'Kenzie—Wharton's, 122, South
Second flreet.
Jofepfi Craycroft—do. . do.
James York—4th near Spruce street.
Joseph Ceverin—Coffman's, 130, NortJj.
Water street.
James Fairchild—Vine by Fourth flreet.
Discharged, since last report.
Hannah Elmfly, admitted 2d ult".
Thomas Gliflbn, V iothinft.
Died flncc last Report.
, , • , how long ill previ<
-when admitted. ? *
« ons to admittance^
Paniel ( RofS, 12th init. 2 days.
Henry (Black) 7th 3 days.
Anae'Reilly, loth 4 days.
Remaining last Report 54
Admitted since, 5
59
Discharged 2
Died 3 5
r. [ Convalefcents2 r 1
Remain inHofpital, j s;ck 33 £*4
Interred in Citv Hospital burying ground
since last report :
From the city and suburbs 4
From the city hospital 3
Total 7
Stephen Girard, '
(Signed) Caleb Lownes,
John Connelly.
Pablifhed by order of the board.
Mm. MONTGOMERY,
Chairman, pro tem.
The Infpeftors of the Health-Office feel
it their to ad»ife their fellowscitizenS,
whose families 3re out of town, not to re
turn to the city soT a few days ; for although
at present there a great appearance of the
prevailing fever's fubliding, still as an un
favorable change may take place, those who
are out of town, we conceive, had better
not move in, particularly to the lower pa'rts
of the city and Southwark, until the disor
der has more generally subsided ; and in the
mean time to employ proper persons to air
and cleanse their houseS- *
Published by order of the Board,
Wm. Montgomery,
Chairman pro tem.
Oftober 13, 1797.
PRICE St) F STOCKS,
Philadelphia, %(h Sept. 1797.
6 per Cem. 16/8
} per C«iit. 10/4
lleferrcd 6 per Cent. 13/4
BANK United States, 18 per ct. advance.
—— I'ennfylvtnia, II d».
North America, 46 do.
Inl'urauce Co. N. A (hares 4Stf°'S° do.
Pennfylvania, par ,
' COURSE Of EXCHANGE.
On London, at 3d days par
at 60 days x 65
at 90 days 6i
Amfterd.im, per guilder 40
- »'
Acl laying Duties on Stamped Vellum,
Parchment and Paper.
1 A FEW copiss of the above ait may be hid at
the Office of tha Gazette of ike United states, No
119, Chcfnut-fixeet. Ju'y 19.
! Thirty Dollars Reward.
ELOPED from the service of the fubfi rfber,
on the 19th instant, a neerp man by the
' jnameofDJCK, about twenty-five years of age,
| | and fivefptt nine or ten inches high ; by trade
a carpentei, and is a very lively bri/k work
man. His countenance is very good—When
fpoktn to, he converses witq ease and confi
dence, and is pretty Tagicious- I purfhafed
the said fellow of Mr.Dubney Miijor, in wliofe
name he has been advertised in the Richmond
newfpaprrs. During his lalt trip (last
fsinirner) he was employed a considerable length
of tic, by ft>me person near Dumfries; from
whirh c-ircumftance, I conjedlure, he has taken
another nothern route. I forewarm all persons
' from giving him employment, of .my kind
' whatever, and maftersof veflels and ethers, from
| carrying him out of tbi» state. The above it
ward will be given if lie is taken within forty
miles of this city*; and an additional sum, in
' proportion to the distance he may be bfoii£ht,
s or the trouble andexpeneethe apprehender cvy
be at, in bringing him tothisplace.
auo; tisrvjt
, N. B. His apparel was of the usual negro lind,
, but h£ had more cloaths than is cuftom.vy for
1 them to poffels.
1 AD.
! R'shmsnd, Jure 11, 179'.Imported in the fhjpTvlANrn ester,
Benjamin Swewell, Mafttr,
!Frr»m Bordeaux, and fur faie bv the l'ubfcriher,
j, Nn. ii VVah.ut si tit.
Bonrdeaux Brandy ~j
Irish market claret l'h cases / Entitled to
Medoc wine, in c!o. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd. i
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bulhc!s Liverpool fait.
Atig. 24. tut&atf.
To be fold at Public Venciiie,
To the liighc * bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the lildiltn
in thcvity of Baltimore, on tht.h'jth
day cf OiSlober ne*t, at 11 o'clock, A;
Ahotit seven th<'uf?nd acres of land,
t,he prop«i>ty of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lyiog hetweeft tteifter's-town and VTcltminfter,
communly ceiled I.ittle Winchester, {{.lie turn
pike road runt through a eonjiilsrablc party>f
thtfe lanes) the jraift begin 3 about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a saw hundred yards
of fatd Ueifter's-town, and extend* to the dis
tance of stpnu twenty-three mil-.s from Balti- '
more, and lis* on the main falls rtf Patapfieo !
rmtr, from th.ee to fi>ur miles thereon. Will
be fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on tarh tractt,
fotn<- nf them highly improved, with excellent
buddings sind fine gr; ft.
AI SO
A fra£t of seven hundred acres of
land, called Closer Farms, tt-ithifl five miles of
Bladenfhurg, esteemed very pood for Grass.
Rfchard Ponfonby, of Bladenfbiirgh, tyill (hew '
shis land to any person inclined to purchase.
ALSO,
A tratt of land of about three hun
dred and thirty acres, withip about two miles
and a half o the President's house in the Fede
rrl City* It is nearly all wood land, and a floe !
hjgh profpe<s>, fron, which may be feed the ,
city of V\ aftiinetom Bladenlburgh, Alexandria j
and a part of George-town, and many milts
down th; iPotomiCriver. Mr. Richard Hor.foji- !
by, qf Bladenfbuig, will alio (hew this laud.
A liberal credit will be given for the grcaKft •
p»r( of the purrhsfe. money. Ihe terms will
be made known on the day of file.
Mat 8
Juit Received,
from Batavia (vii Providence)
a few Boms of Spices, confiftir.g of (1
Nrtmegs, XTlovcsaii'd Mace *
iorfaleliy
IVILLINGS U FRANCIS,
Penn-flreet.
May 30 .. <J t f
Davis's Law Book Store, ,
No. 319, Higb-Strtet.
Q E O R G E DAVIS,
BEING blififcd for fume time 1 in 1
tions for removing into h.s prcsfent hoofe.has
/been under poftponingurttil thi«<jay !
informing the gentlemen cithe Liar thro' j
the United States, thfit his spring importation ef
law bci.ks is now arranged and ready for file, ou '
termsthat he trusts will entitle him to the like pre
freeate he has experienced for Kverxl years pad.
Catalogues, combining the mo.l varied collet
tion evtr imported iiHo this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
Jnre 17. jaw 6w
' " —'" ' J* 1
City Commijfioners' Office, J
June 12, 1797. *
IN purfuar.ee of an ordioam e from the feleiS :
and common councils, parted the »ad day of 1
May lafl, appointing the city ctminiiflioiiera,
and preferring their duties,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diftritfa;-
«ach to be under the fuperiniendance of one of j
the city commifiioners, whoistobe individually (
rcfponfil'lc for the cleanlinels of the fame, and t
are as follow.
Driftridl No. 1. From the south fide of.Ce- c
dar-flrret, tp the north fide of Spruce-flreet, tm
rthi fupfrintendtnee of Nathan Boys,
a. From the north fide of Ppruee-ftreer, to
the north fide of Walnut-Art et, under the fuper
intepdence of Hugh Roberts.
3. From the north fide of \Valmit to the south
fide of Il.gh-ftrcct, under the fupenntendencc of -
Jol'eph Claypoole. 1
4. From the north (idle of High-street, to the
north fide of Mulberry street, under the fuper
inter.dence of William Moulder.
5. Friun the north Cdeof Mulherry-ftreet to
the north fule of Vine-Areet, tinder (he super- r
Jntendence of Nicholas Hicks.
The elfaningof High-fircet to h* in common. I"'
(J" A stated meeting of the city oommiflion- v
ers is held at the Old Ccrttrt House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock
July 14- eoim
Stands for Qraymcn, &i. c '
Tn pur/uanet of an OtHinance from theSelcfl and t j
Common Gounc h, tearing date the lid day of
April, 1797. providing for the appointme.it of 3 ,
City Commiffionerj, <Sc. AVfl. the I sib. q
r "P'HE followiwg places are fixed upon by the f f
A said City CommifEoners for Stands for <j|
Draymen and their Horses. u
In Vin ( e-ftreet, eastward of Frdnt-ftreet, on
boi.i fides. p
Saflafras, High,Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets, tf
•eastward ol Front-ftrcet, on the no/th fide only. N
Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to t<
Third-street. 'c
Front-flrest, east fide from Vine-street to 'i
Elfrith's alley.
Front-street', from opposite to Black Horse al- w
ley to Hamilton's flores, east fide. r '
weft fide from the north end of
Stortlper's or Moore's flores to Eine-flreet.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Cedar-street, weft ®
fide. I
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street. A
Spruce, Pine and South flreets, tall of Frotit (
street, south fide.
Dock-fticet, between Walitut-ftrett and tKe a
flag ttafte crofTmgs, east fide, opposite George 0 |
Orklev's. hi
Second-street, between SafTafras and Vine a ,
ftrerts, weft fide. P1
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul- L
berry streets. <l,
SafTafras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-street,
faft fids-
No drav or horse to stand within ten feet of
any pump. hi
STANDS FOR HACKNEr COACHES. r
PHie-ftreet, nor:h fide from Fouith to Fifth C e
ftieeti. M
•Filih-ftrc'et, between Chefnut and Wilnut ,Ji
fireets, weft. . tr
Brancji-ftrett, north fide, between Third and fn
Fourth iUeei.3.
July 14. mw&fxm
A Literary Treat.
>r Jy/*~ handfmnsh printed on <tvrUinjt
prtp?r y price i dollar,
A ucw edition of tlMt popui;.r and
l work, ernt;;.}»4
FKE FORESTERS; ati AfM'ltzn Twc j being
A- a i quel to the hifiory ox Jolirj Bull. th<3 C)o
---thier—In aftiiesof Icttcis to a WitT'. the;KS-
I 'Jitjon oi" tvo tetters, alluding to reccftt poiitic-ai
rranfadions in America.
I'htf following, exfrom the Clnvjs Allegorica,
fliews the principal r.haraclcrs that ar* introduced*
Jol\n Bull,thf Kino jom of * r v j»land
Hi* Mothtr, th.:Ci urch i f i ngbnd
HisWifc, the l*ar-!i33l£tit *
His Sifter Peg, the Chut chof Scotland
His Brother Patiick. Ireland
Lewis, the K of France
HjsMiflrefs, the (Jltl CVnftJtutlon
r. His Wifv., tj;s National Representation
in Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
{, Nicholas Prop, the D, *. h Repullic
j Franks, the French Republic
The Foresters, the Untfed Stares of America
Robert Lumber, Ntw-Hampftiire
Johl) Codline, Massachusetts
r> Humphrey Conne&icut
1 " Carrier, Rhode I/land
H Peter L'ul! Fr.»£, N' >v-York
* s Julius Cajfar, iiew-Jerfey
l* s | William BroadDrim, Pennsylvania
j Caflimar, Delaware
i- Walter Pipewood, Virginia »
o! Hi* Gwndlbn, Walbington
II Peter Pitch, orth Carolina
o • Charles Indigo, South Carolina
Gtoupe Truity, Georgia
Ethan Gfeenwootl, Vermont
Huiitar Longknife. Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slave*
Rats, Speculators
x? Mother Carey's Chiclyens, Jacobins
Tlui populur and entertaining satirical hifto
t ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bbl
5. knap. It hasagrsat fture of originality and a
v b<mnds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and chara&crife* those
late political tranfaJlions which havt caused so
„ much ur>cafinefs In America.
i Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. i 6,
s South Second Street, and No. 50, Marke* ftjeet.
June 26.
LAW BOOKS,
s j Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Bookfellcrs %
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
. j LIAVfi just received by the lite arrivals from
I, i Lonrton and Dublin, tht;ii spring importa
tion, consisting as ?. variety of the latvft and mod
approved ] -aw Books, which,>added to those alrea
dy on hand, Tornjg the mod catenfive colle&ion ev
er ofleredfor fa!ein this country. They therefore
beg leave to notio;, that irom the nature of their
conne&icnsm they are enablod to fell Irish
editions (as they have hitherto at the very
Moweft prices. The following are among the latell
Vefey, jun'rs Rerjorts in Chancery, a
Peakc's Cases at Niii Prius ; Rjdgeway's Report*
in the time ef Lord Hurdwicka ; rloyer's Proper#
PraAice in the Court6 ; Barton's
Trcatife on a Suit in Equity;
»tbc €ourt of Kine'a Bench in Personal Anions, %
parts complete ; Ward's Law of .Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, 1} vols. London edi
tion.
H. aqd P. Ri<?i «cpe*st to by the jrft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
I>yrnford and Eafl's Reports, thcidpaitof Gil
bert s Law of F.vi.dcn«e by Loft, and a ftumbey of
new publications.
June 16.
lhe History of Pennfytvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the prefi, and will be puhliflied,
with all convenient expedition, by Zi-CHA-
R'AH HiJULtnN, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-itrett,
l'liiladelpliia, where fubfcriptioils will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according »o the printed profod'als, until the
work is ready forthefubfcriber».
J"'y »8- aawtf
The Partnership,
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN V Company,
i« diffoived by mutual corfent. All persona
having any demands at;.iinft the said Honfe are de
lired to render the fa-ne to T. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to the House are dtfired to make pay-,
meat to him—By whom bufinefa w>ill in future be
carried on,at hiiStore, No. j9,South Front-street.
1- eod4w
Richard and James Potter
HAVF. removed their Counting House to No.
45, Ssuth Fifth-ftrvet.
■•\uguft 1. w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijburgh CarliJle,
Sbippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are reqtKfted to take notice, that .
tJie partnership which has far sometime fub
fiftfd bctwesn Mathias Slpugh of Lancaftcr, and
William Oeer, is now dilTolrcJ : but, not as M.
Slough infinuatesto the public without just eaufe ;
as will more fully appear by a letter 011 the fub
jc<ft from M. Slough te W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recitsl of which i> not now deem
ed nccelTary. Auy gentleman who wishes to be
more circuaillanti»lly, informed of the merits of
this buflnefs, by applying td W. Geer may have
the perusal «f M. Slough's letter, and then cau be
at full liberty to detcrhiine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfe&ly jtiftiSabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage eonveyanc: from Philadelphia to Shippenf- '
urg, or any other place.
Now from the liberal and generous support the 1
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in i
this bufiuefs, vrilliam Geer, in conjunction with
MefTrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined i
to prosecute and carry it on, with every c»ce, at
tantion anddifpatch that a ?cal to oblige the pub
lic can polfibly ejert. t
The above company, who are amply provided t
with .tarriages, hori'es, and every appurtenance to I
render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
those wnu wiih to patronise and eneourage the r
undertaking, that they can take their feats at t:
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse, <
Market Street, Philadelphia, oi\ every.-Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lapcafler, Harrifburg, c
Carliile and Shippentturg. The fare as hitherto \
established. (
the further aceomrr.rdatlon ot thf public, f
« Sfage will ft;irt every Wednesday from the house t
of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun- li
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday, v
and return from thcoce and arrive at Harrifburg t
every Saturday, so that paflengers dellitied for I
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon- b
days. ' ii
WILLIAM GEER. tl
I.ancafler, Jan. 17, 1797.
N. B. Thi< Line of Stages ftarta from th?
house of William Ferroc, in Lancaster, on every E
Vuel'day and Saturday morning at 6 o'ele.k, pro- 0
cee : dlng to the v.eftward; and from the houfu of o
Mr. Samui'l Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shipptnfburg, and returns I'
from thenci on every Thutfjay : performing the C
fame routine daily as in its tour ficm Phibdcl
phia. mv/f I
AJvcrL he meal.
Oa the iot!i of November next iu Ak-sjßJr«i
J (being court day}, will he expofrd for fits one
or Wore covering and fevtral young
* dlff-Tcnt «gti <nd to ; all defended
•. •' .Ciff'(an irapui'ti ii Jae'.t tr.im Spain,
- "p'.ardr. of 15 hands iiiph} our of iinported
Jinnies from Mtrttijfull 14 h.\nd« htgh.
a i The terms of t.ile (or if not fold, of letting
I fieri fir one or more seasons to cover) will
then lie known : the payments may be
|. m.-ide easy to the pi rchafcr, bond and fecnrity
ncnig given for 'he amount, wij^ititeitft.
At tbe fame time and p'acc; sundry
Horf" San( i irrz will he offered for faie. The
having been to the Jacks, are probably
with foal.
JfAM'iuS NDEUSON, Manager.
ourvt-Vernoji, 2olh £
September, (707. 3 I*»'4w
lo'furaVsce Corripanv of the State
a of Pennsylvania.
rHE Ofii;e will be kept until further notice at
the School Houfc in Germantown. The
Company ilill r-ta'u the room in Chefnut, above
Seventh street, where a person will attend to re
ceive and give answers to applications, every day
from 10 until I o'clock. <
Sent, ii
*—■ —-—— —■ :—:—__
l homas Armat and Son,
OF PHILADELPHIA,
INFORM their cufomers and the public, they
have removed » part of their merchandize to
Wilmington > Also, they their store open in
the city. At either place their friends can be sup
plied, and their order# carefully attended to.
By the Cumberland, from Hull, they have re
ceived a handsome aflertment of atticles, suitable
to the approaching fcafon ; and expeil to add to it
by other fall Jhips.
Should the sickness prevail in the centrnl part of
the city, thst branch of their buGncfs will be re-
I uioved !• GermaNtown.
e'l'he communication by pod is open and rt»-
as nfual.
" Stf P'- » 8 - _ thtf
, TO BE SOLD VERT CHEAP!
A Light WAGGON afmoft new, with a frame—
and a pair of harness (Engliih collars) hjs nercr
been i.fed—price 9oDol!«.
A Horse 1(5 hands high, fvven eld—:.nd a
new
Enquire Ho. 331, Mark«-{lrcet
Augu# 34. diw
F„r Xale or to be let on ground
rent,
A vali/fiblt l ot of Ground ;
SlTp.V'l'ji on the nor.tli-eift corner of Wal
nut and fifth streets, fronting the State-
House fmure. Thi* lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walmit flroet, and one hundred and thirteen
feet ar.d an half on Fifth ftrcet ; there are at
prefect t>» 0 small two story brick houses, and a
number of fu)al| tenements thereon.
Ay 'q, for Salt,
Two three story Brick House*
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate oa
\V»ter-(lreet, between Mulberry and Saflafras
flreets, containing in frotjt pn VVater {lreet flj
ey-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward pinery-five feet, then widening to the
louth thirteen foet fix inches. There houses
ave the coovetufoce of a public zlley adjoining
pn the ttorlh lidej »nd are a very desirable litua
tion for a mtrcJunt, flour f»iVor,or others who
mjy have Qccafton for liorage of Thi»
(property will be fptd on very reasonable terms
for cafl». For further information apply to the
printer.
July 31. m&wtf
VTS - ST~T™b - l d;
jfnd pojfejjion given 'immediately^
ALAkG i\ two llory brick Houfe,handfowely
fitu&tedin Princeton. There are four rooms
and a large entry on each floor, uad 6v< rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings 51 feet in
length, and a f>iazza of 57 feet 'J here is a pump
in the ysrd, an cxcelleut kitchen at the
farther end of which are a carriage houfeand two
tables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two flables for 27 horses.
tliiacfs and pleasantness oi its situation, and thp
number of genteel and agreeable families in and
near the town, reader it 9 desirable retreeat for a
gentleman from the city. Thecommodioufntfs of
the house, itsceritial poOtion, and the largcnefs of
the (1 ables, make it]every wi.y suitable fcr a tavern ,for
which it has always been confiderd as a capitii
(land. Inquire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Angf. 15. 29 dlwaawtf
■■ ■ "■ 1 "■»■■■■■ 1 ,■ - 1 ■ 1
City of Walhington.
S CHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvcrmnt of the Federal City.
A tnignificent Jwelling-houfe %o,ocodollars,
& caih 30,000, are / 50,000
1 ditto A c»0» »j,ooo 40,000
1 drtto ij,oop 4 cash ij.ooo 30,000
1 ditto io,of>o & ca!h 10,000 *O,OOO
1 ditlo t,d6o & caih 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5, 000 & sath 5,000 10,000
I caftprlte'pf n>,ooo
% do. 5,000 each,are • to,ooo
xo do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
10 do. 509 - - jo,ooo
op do. 100 - - 10,0'i.p
»oo do. to ■ - 10,000
400 do. ij - - to,ooo
IjCOG do. 10 - 20,000
15.003 do. 10 ■ * - *s«,o<»(p
'4,739 Prizes.
}J,t(>l J'llatiks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dpllars, <OO,OOO
N. B. Tofavour thofewha may take a quan
tity oj Tickets,the prijte of 40,000 dpllars will fct
the iast drawn Vfket, and 'he 30,000 the last
hut ONI ;
And approved notes, fecuaing paymeot in either
monsy er prizes, ip ten d:iys alter drawing, will
be received foi my number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an fpedmen of
the private buil.libgs to be crtSed in the City of
Wafhingrpn—Two beautiful defigos are already
(sledled for th.e entire iront; on two of the public
lquare*; Troiii thafp j awingMtispropofed toeredl
two centre and 'our coiacr beildings.as soon as pot
fible after this lottery infold, and to convey
when complete, to the fortunate adventurtr?. in
the manner dcfcribed in the fchcrae for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett of five per tent, will
be made to tiexray the-necwlary expenses of print
iuig, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National UnivetCty, to
be eteded within the city Walhington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prices, are held by the President and two Dirt-d
---ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount ot the lattery.
SJMIWL HLQDGET.
.5, Tickets may be had at the Bank ot Colsni
bi-i ; of James Weft' Ic Co. BaitimoTC ; of Feter
Gilman, Eollon ; of Tolui Hopkins, Richmond :
'and o; itiAard V.'ills, Cooper's Ferry.
aiwf
on <zvr>iiiig
I This Day Publiflied,
. ! And to be fold by WILLI AM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price $-%ths of a Dollar,
! Observations on certain Documents
• ( obtained i'-» K'o.V .Mid VI of
u The Hiilory of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the cn vkge of speculatjon arainll
; ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secrkrarv of the Tr ka3Ur,y, is FULLY
REC-UnrD.
rr r/rr ew , or mimsp.lf.
This publication prelcnt* a CDiic.j'e flatcment
of the base means by the Jacobins of the
United States to the charaiflers of
pfeiibns who arc cor.lidered as Koilife to their difor
ganiziiijr schemes. It ali"> conuliis the cor
refpondcnce between Mr. Mamilton and Mtfirs.
Monroe, Muhlcnburtrh 2nd on tht* fub
jeaof the documents aiorefaij, an 1 a lories of lc;-
teys from James Reynolds and hi. wil'c 10 Mr Ha
milton-, proving beyond the pofljbility qf a
that the connection between him and Reyuo!ds,
was the result of a daring* confpirasy on the part
of the latter and his aljociates to extort money.
difcoont of one tJurd from the reuil price
will be made in ot wholefa/e purchasers, £or f
cash. Ore esto be addressed ta Mr Young.
/ft •/'/? 25.
~ No. 188.
DiJlnQ of Pcnnfy faaniq, to wit :
(l. s ) P-t-M that on the
JD twevwy sixth diy of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
Sratts of America, John Frnno, of the said dif
tri&.hath depofitedis this office the title of a book,
tne right whereqf he claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit: —
" O'-fervatioits on certain documents contained
II in N6. V. and V r l. of " The Hiilory of tbe Unit
" ed States for the year 1796,"m which ths charge
" of speculation, againtl AJeiandcr Hamilton,late
" Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
" Written by hinifelf "
In conformity to 'lie a& of the Congffcfs of the
Uctfed States, entituled, " An ail for theencour- :
agWrent of learning, by securing the copies of i
maps, charts and books tho authors ant 1 fsropri- I
etors of such copies, during jie t.mct therein mw
tiontd."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Cltri of tbe D'JlriEl of i'emffyharvg.
__J U T 97- VV 4W
Ihe Inhabitants of thp Diftriii
of Southwark,
A RR informed that a Coacl\ee is provided, to be
kept at the ConttablcK' oHfice, the north eafk
corner of Front and Almond streets, where the
friends of thufe sick p.°rfoßs who defireto be re
moved to the City Hospital, arc requeued 19 make
application—AM>, a Hearse will be kept in
ness for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
N. B.— The Poor, who wiQi to remove to t,he
Tents on SchuylKiil, may be furniflied with orders
by applying as ahpvo. Av<i. 19
William lilackburn,
LOTTERY Ana BROKER'S OFFICS
No. 64 south ifcCond-Areet.
TICKET® in tv C»nal Lottery, No. 11, wtaicb
commenced drawing the 19th May, FOR.
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the drtwing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thoufuid dollars each, on the last day ol
drawing. /
Check Boeks kept for tain alio p and regifler
iog, in the Canal, No. a, City of WaJJiingtop, No.
and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets forfal? jn thj; Schnylkill bridge and
Perkiomeu Br.idge lotceriea, which will begin
drawing in tbe coatfo ef the fttrtiiAer.
The bufioefs of a Bcoker in kinds of Slock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, fee- kc. yanfel&ed with the
utmoS attention.
June» tt(Scf
Hrfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROPERT CAMFBRLL ft Co. '
V»'o 40 So<it.l» Second ilreet,
("Price 31 Cents.J
A View of the Cflufts and Consequen
ces of the pre font War with France.
By the l.'enorable Thomas Ekskikk.
May 15 p §
state trials.
Spld b W. Young, Uookfeilff, No. 51, Joutb Be
cond-ftroC',
. The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, (Viijl, apd aeqviit
al of Francis Kopfcinfon, Judge of thepourt of
Admiralty, and John Kicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Youwo has for sale, a general afTortmentof
Books. Also, Stationary, ret.lil and by ihc pack
cge, well afipfted, anjt entitled to the drawbwk if
i fuly 7 —*
For v>ale,
That well iriown place, called Fands-orift's ]
(' fK RV,
ON Nefhjniiny creek, 18 mjles from
ladelphia, on thf Kevr York post roadj
containing 74 acres and 94 pcrchei. Upon th?
premifcs are a large two ftoty Hone house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story (tone kit
chen, a large ftable with a good
f.opr, and lome out building'—also 9 well of
pond water, and an excellent icc Hpufe. Op
this place is a most elegant situation for a gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Kefnam
iry to its junflion « iih the Delaware, and thence '
across to' th'p JerfVv (horc. ft has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the S«iWcriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
\">v 34- itiwtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
BoarilingSchool for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with m»ch pleas
ure and refpefl, returns her lincertf ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during fouv years refidencf in
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends ainl the
public, so far frpoi intending to decline her
iclipiol, Ihe has madea superior ariapgemifnt for
the more cpnveiiiiffit accomincMiation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufefu! arid prlite
educatisn is particularly amended to by Mrs.
Gi'oomb.ridjfe nnd malttrs excelling in their
refpeilive prbf^-ffions.
Corner ol Spruce and Eleventh Streets,
June 1797! ft irol'rf
The situation lis perfeJlly healtty ; andmade j
more agreeable by an extenilve garden and lot ]
of grrund adioiniH<j the house. ,
j'ujf Publifkcd, j
And to be lvnd of Mellrs. Dolfon, Campbell,Rice, ! r
Cary, and the otucr pricipal Booksellers in t*ve |
city,price one dollar, twmty-f.ve cents,in boards, (
New' Viev.;s of the Origin of the j
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
Jur.e 20. "it
Rofs y Simjon,
' —IIAV E FOR 9A L I—•
r Hcglheads,
Excellent Coffee in < T-iercer, and
C Barrels.
A (mall parcel of nice cocoa in bags
Y * * cw r unc '- c °ns Jamaica fpirlts, fourth proof
Superior Taetfiflee wine, old an I in Madeira pipes
An invoice of jewellery and hoficry to be fold by
the package J
A few hampers cf cheefe*
{ Tuly 2y - dtf.
Ihe Subscriber has for Sale,
it A large allortment of Indift Muffing
c coarfc and fine
<i India Calicoes
Sooty RorriaHs
Bud Cloths and Checkj
•• . Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue rai artd Gi'li Himdlceriihiefi'
An invoice ps Irifla Linens and Sheeting!,
affortcd
i A boje of Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
t Two bores of fire Spices, cotaiaiog Natmejr*
Mace aed Cloves
£ Black Pepper of firft quality
r . Girder
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Win*
Ditto of Gih
Roll Briroftone
e Ator dec at Lewis.
. ta. Mwim
j [ Ji —-r
- Biggins' Specific
' FOR TUB
e PREVENTION AND CORE OF THE
YELLOW FEVER.
"pVER since this disease m*df fuel) ravage* in t*u#
-*■-* city and New-York, theantW has turned his
" attention to its caufe> and cure.—Therefult of his
c enquiries has fcsnvinced him that the reason why so
few persons recover from its attacks, are fiwai its
not being well underftciod, and the eonlcquent
8 wrong method tali en to cure it. He is ptTfuaded
~ that the exolive bleedigns and mercurial ren'meat
of the Faculty i« highly injurious, and that the on
ly ratioml mode of treatment is by theufc of proper
acids. Convinced of this he offers his S/uiif. as a
certain remedy, if ufe'd according to the directions.
To be had in bottles, at one dollar each, of the
inventor G,o. Cherry fireet, two doorsa
bove Ninth Creet, (late munas»sr of Jackfnn and
Co's Medicine Warehouse, Loudon) ; by V. Le
■ iW.No. as 6; W. Griffith. Wo, i 77 ,V Puree No.
ai, South Third flro-t, T. Mff, N«. rj.Nfw flrect,
s n« r Vine Greet, and j. «*!//, Mo. j6, Race fcreet.
. Aug. *j. tHthl 3t
; COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS,
. Just received, by Wm. o*irrirns, No. I??, South,
Seewnd-fireel, a frefh supply of
Genuine Bal/am of Honey
j A invented by the late Sir John HilJ
-/*- (who katwlfdge as a Botsnift procured hits
- the appellation of the Linjaus of Britain) and y
■onfidered in Ifnglapd as a certain fttre for th« kbpv'e
, c«pipl%ints; if is also of lingular .ffieafy ut the
< Hooping Coijgh,
Ic may alCe be had retail of W. A. Stokis.No.
i 6i, South Second flroet, and T. Stjii , 55,jiew»
L ftrset, in bottUs at 7} cants e^th,
Wy. OHnriT»» having observed the Jwppj rfc
- feet of the medicine, (several cafe* of curat bav
f iog come within his own knowledge) ap j tilt treat!
t demand |for it has induced him'te order,a large
fiipplf, a part «f which he has Jsft rtceivrd.
■ J- Hwjw
3Q Dollars Reward.
RAN awjy on Saturday last, two indented Ser»
vants, Oiffcrd Dally, a mulatto boy, about, 7
I age, a Aim light built aftive fellow, can
read olid write,five feet seven or eight ipciies hirfi,
h*s a heavy countenance ; had oq a fuftiau coatee
. and trowi'crs, a high crowned hat, fin* ijiops Sic.
Allan Hellons, a black ltnu, about 24 yenrs of
a»e, five feet fvven or eight inches high, a thick set
cluTlsy bwilt fellnw, particularly fibout the breechV
had*on a sailor's blue jacktt lined with fwanffc.ii:,
dark striped vest, fuftiaq trowfore, high erowne.i
hat, ccarfc ilioes, &c.; each of them several
(hirts and several othtr cloathos with them. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid ft/ the runaways, or 15 dol
lars for each, and reaforv.Mt charges, o* delivering
thjm at No. 54, North Thifitftceiit.
ihe black fellow is aliont a ye*-* from Lewo|
Town, in the County of Sullac, state of Dela
ware, ijnd has taken the boy withliim.
J»iy 3»- mtn&f;w
Tabs SOLD or RENTED,
AL\ROS.I Stnry Brick Heufe, on the
South fule of Filbert street, between
pightli and Ninth, lately cceupipd « the Sur
veyor General's Office.
The Building is 36 feet front and .35 feet deep,
the Int 1 ic set t deep, with the privilege of .a ninp
feet vitl? Alley extending the whole length of
ihe lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriage!
to turn in. The House is not j-lafter#d, and
m»y be turned either into c>ne, or two dwelling
Houfet. It is fuitaljle for a Urge Manufiilory,
or would make a good Tavern. Itainediate
will beyiven.
Apply to Ro. in, Chefnut-Sfreet.
A'tiff. 11.. codtt.
Musical Injlrument Manufactory,
Nc. 167, ArcbtStriH.
HARPJiß.harpfuhord.grand, portable
fid >l;oard, pier table gr.d fqu®re piano lorns
frora l.cndon, returns thank# tp his friend*
arid the public, fcr their liberal eficoutageijicnt,
and hopes that by his alßcuity arid atscmicn to ev
ery branth of his fcu£ii»-fs, to merit a tontiiiuancfe
of t'neii l,v.rs. Piano IJorlvs niape on tl;» newiU
and moil approved plans, with pcd3l», pateßt,
fwcll, and Flench harp flop, which he fli.tteis
himfclf will ue found tn uial by unprejudiced
judges, to be eqc»l if hot superior to any importi
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inflrti
nijct purchased i f hirri, if not approvc4of ill
twelve months, he v.'Ul exchange.
N.B. AllkiiVdsef Musical instruments made„
uned, andTepairei; with the j;re?teft accuracy,
dil'patch, and on the moll reai'onnble termj, Kr
ready money only.
Second hand l-'iano ft ries taken in exchange.
May Xi . iir.i.
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN away from ihe fubferiber on the fee ;
oaddxyof tikis inft. July, a Mulatto Man,
naraetl Will B»y,'zcr, fofty years of age,
fevt fevtn or eigm" high, rather
chunky made ; had_ on when he went a«ay, a
drab colored cloth coat, striped purple trowfeis
and jacket. It is probM le he will change his
cloatins, as hetobh a aumber with hiin. Ths
fai.l felfow fora»erly'*belougeti to Mr. Charles.
Blake of this place; and it is expelled heha»
made t«»ards Jones's Nec'4, in the Delaware
State.—Apy perfi n apprehending the said fel
low,a,r d securing him So that 1 can get him a-,
gain,, ihall, receive the above rpwani if taken
out of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
the county, and all reasonable charge! if bro't
home.
JESSE REED,
Queen Abu'» Coys.ty, Maryland.
July 3 ■ wat
July 3