Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Nl/MBSR 147 I.J
F° r Hamburgh,
V th« ship
JJffi&SLA E R I A L,
JohnTarri--, rnafler. •
/j, OIEAT part of her catgo is engaged, and
jL she will fail iu ten days. For freight or pal
fagc apply to capt. Tarri*, .»t Latimer's wharf, or
to gursft & smith.
_»•>•/ -s §
f&X For London,
THE SHE?
WILLIAM FENNy
"JaMcs yostAHi Majler.
ILL fail wi-h all convenient fpced. For
VV ireight or paCfagc,apply to
Jeffe Iff Robert Wain:
£?* Theo-wnert of Goo « in the ship William
Pe-uj, arcre(]3efteJ to tend their permits on board
as Toon a< poliible.
Mf.y 19 §
United States, 1 _
Pennsylvania Dijlrifl, j -''
Notice is hereby given,
TH AT in purfaance ol a writ to me directed
from the henorahle Rich a lift Peters, Esq.
Judge of the Diftricfc Court of the United States
in and for the Pennsylvania Diftri&, will he ex
yofci to sale at the merchants* cofFee-houle in this
city, oil the 27th day of this infrant, May, at 12
o*clock at noou,
' S c hoor.cr or Vejfsl called
THE bktsey >
Will) all and her tac
kel, upp iiel and furniture (whereof an inventory
rcay be lean at my office) the fame having keen
libfQed again ft and condemned, in tha said Difriil
Cfeuft, lor.the payment of mariner's wag«», &c.
William Nichols, Marjhal.
M.i« iUAL's OfFICt,")
X7th Kay, 1797. J 002 7 M
For Sale,
The cargo of the brig Enterprise, Captain
l.vngdon from Bourdcaux, now landing at
Morton's wharf,
COnsitjnc OF
514 ilids. of Ciaret 2 •
il; cases of ditto -a "2
100 c; fes of Sweet Oil r "2
no pipes London proof } 5.2
Jo pipes of Holland proof 5 ' w
Apply to
Wharton Lewis,
No. 115, South Front S(.
PS" Said brig will take a freight for the Weft
Indies cr Europe, fails fall, burthen about fifteen
hundred barrels, is in complete order, and will
be ready to receive a cargo in a fevrdays.
Apply as above.
May 34 f
Pc/t-Office, 23d May, 1797.
THE Mail for Baltimore will be doled at this of
fice every morning (Sundays excepted) at halfpaft 7
«'cicck. (
The Mail f> r Boiion will be closed every day
(Sunday.*excepted) at 12 o'clock noon ; and
The Mail for Frederica, MaJfor^, Clowes,
Tough, Lklawaie, Horntown, nccoma® Gouit-Houfe
and Novthamoton CourL-Houfe, will be
closed eviery Monday morning at half pad 7 o'clock. -
May 23. *i2t
TO BE 'SOLD,
A»d poffeffiongi»sin immediately,
A Lot of Land
SITUATED in Mount-HoHy, inthe'eounty
of Burlington, in New-Jerley, lately occu- '
pied by Francis Bullus, Esquire, upon which ars '
an excellent brick house, twollories hi K h, with
lour convenient rooms on each floor, also a good j
liable, carriage house and other buildings. The
lituation is valuable forbufinefs of any kind, and j
at least equal to any other in the town.
The terms of payment will be made easy to t
ihe purchaser Apply to Wiliiam Rolfcll, Esq.
uire, Jolm Perry, or Richard Coxc, merchants,
ki Mount-Holly, or<o the Suliferiber, in the city
ef Burlington.
JOSEPH M'ILVAINE. {
Burlington, 37th April May s—s5 —$ }w
JtiJi Imported,
IN the ship Woodrop Sims, Capt. Hodgfon,
from and for sale by the Subfcrib
at Mrs. Kinffy's, corner of Second and
Pine-street,
Hyson
Hyion SLin ( Teas all frefh and of
Young Hyson and C excellent quality.
Gunpowder J
Also, '■
A few Nankeens.
C.HAIGHT.
April 17 dtf
JOHN CRAIG
HAS just imported from Rotterdam, via St.
Tfio mas, and for sale on reasonable terms
bv thepackage,
Platilli. Royal
Haerlem and German linent'
Rsuens
Post aad ProPatria Paper _
Wafers
<^oillj
Ozieri for Hoops, in Bandies
Coffee Bags
He has also for Sale,
Best Red Clover Seed
OU Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use
Teneriffe Wine of firft and second Quality
Coffee in Bags and Hogsheads
Jamaica Spirits
Connecticut Turpentine Soap
Window Glass
Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Cotten
Hoficry
April 18. 4a \v
Received by the Indoftan,
From Madras,
SMALL invoice conCfting of the following
l\ Colft Goods, viz.
Blue Cloths
Long Cloths, 14 punjumi
D«. do. fi-ie
Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and
Book Muffins
WILLINC FRANCIS.
March ij. jaw.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
At the Merchants' Coffee hoafc, in Philadelphia,
en the 15th day of J un -, at 3 o'clock in the
> evening, it not before dffjrofdd of at private
sale,
[-, 4 0 >93 ! I * 2 acres of land, on the
ir waters of Wheeling and Fishing creeks, in Wall
ington county, Pennsylvania. i'hefoii is remark
ably fertile; andhefides a large body of meadow,
- there are considerable improvements on the pre
mifes. These lands were patented ill 1787. On
payment of part of the purchase money, a r'.afjn
abU credit will be given for the reCdue. Enquire
of the printer.
"ly !.;• ftS
r To be fold at private sale,
A TWO flory dwelling house ana lot of ground
in the city of 'Burlington, (hte of New-Jcr
-1 fey, in a healthy and (ileafant situation. Tha
1 house is of brick four good fizedrooan,
with a convenient kitchen and cellar. The lot,
on which is a ftab'e, &c. contains about an acre of
land ol the best quality, with a front fuflicient to
admit two 01 three large houses, independent of
that part at present occupied by the house.
For fui tiler particulars enquire of joseph M'll
vaine, Esq. in Burlington, or Joseph Reed, No
[ 114, High-llreet, Philadelphia
. _ May 12. coqw
The Cornmiffi oners
FOR carrying into effect the TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friends*/, Limits,
r and Navigation, between His Catholic Majesty
and the United States of America, hereby giveln- |
f .rotation to all l'erfor.s theiein isonccrncd,—That, !
in order to terminate all differences, 011 account of i
the lefies faitained by the Citizens of the United
States, ill confequencj of their VefTels and Car
goes having b'en take* by the Suhje&s of His Cath
olic Majesty, during the late War between Spain
and France, that they are ready to receive (at their
Office, between the hours of ten and one o'clock,
daily) all complaints and applications, authorized
by the said Aitide, during Eioutiem Months,
from the day of the date hereof, and that they have
power to examine all such perfous as «ome before
them, 011 oath or affirmation, couching the com
plaints in question, and also to receive in 1 vidence,
all written testimony, authenticated in such man
ner as they lhall think proper to require or admit.
By Order.of the Commtjftoners,
PETER LOHRA,
Secretary.
CimmiJJiomrs Office, Ao. log, Mulberry 1
Jireet, Philadelphia, May i~th, 1797.
20— J4W 1
Just received, >
And for sale by Isaac Harvey, jun. No. 5, South
Watcr-flreet, 1
A parcel of prime Rice; also, \
Trinidad and Cayenne Cotton
Coffee in Barrels and Bags 1
Spanish Hides and Beef.
4th mo. e 5 , 1797. 1
Philadelphia and Lancafler Turn
pike Company.
A meeting of the Stockholders of the Phila
delphia and Lancafler Turnpike Company, will
be held at the Company's Office, on Monday, i
ioo'clock, the nthjune next.
WILLIAM GOVETT, Sec'ry.
May ii. ft- 4 w.
Maurice Moynihan,
A 'O. 81, North Second Jireet,
A few doors above Arch-street, '
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has | \
for wholefaleor retail, on the lowest terms, a \ '
general assortment ef Queen's Ware, gilt and cut ! '
ttinblers, plain and fliwered quart, pint, half pint
gill and half gill do. exaift measures, decanters and i
wiue glaflcs ; gallon, half gallon, quart an i pint 1
bowls, and chi a in sets and separate ; pocket ■ *
bottles: Schuyikill and Jersey country quart and 1
half gallon bottles; Ory Goods, &c. See j '
N. B. Crates put up with cars at the fhortell no- 1
tice. '
May II dtf *
. r
For Sale, {
ON board the ship Moll*, John Frost, matter ; a
from Liverpoo:, laying at Walnut-street wharf j
6000 bushels of fine {loved Salt, j 1
And QUcEN'S well afT.rted,
By PHILIP NICKLIN & Co. '
WHO HIN STORE, ALSO FOR SALE, 5
ioo Boxes WhiteHavanna Sugars t
Imperial and ) /<
Hylon J i.
17 tabs Quicksilver «'
» chests Bandanno Handkerchiefs *'
A few c'nefts Manchester Goods well alTorted '■>
in corduroys, thickfete, ginghams, muflinets, ''
dimities, &c. 2 Trunks black sewing filk>
igo Crates queens ware, well assorted, "
10 Tons sheet lead,
Nails assorted, flat and fhat'p poittts,
Loudon particular and > Madeira Wine in
Jndia market ) P'pes and hhds.
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Tenerijfe Wine,
10 pipes choice Port ditto,
31 calk? yellow paint, 5
7 boxes 11 bundles writing flares,
1 box ink-stands & note prefles,
Sail canvas alTorted No. 1 a 8.
May >. dtf
Rofs & Simfon,
Have fur Sale, o
A QUANTITY OF PRIME
St. Domingo Cotton, J
Suptrior Old Lisbon Wine in Pipes J,
Excellent India Market ( a ,
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Calks j-j
A few Quarter Chests best C(
Krefh Hy.fon and )
Hyson Skin )
Mufcovailo Sugars in Hogsheads, and
Coffee in Tierces
March 7. ||tf
Erikine's View of the War. w
fo
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL k Co. «
No 40 Sou. h Second ilrect,
fPrice 31 Cents] tIJ
A View of the Causes and Ccnfequen- £
ces of ibe present War with France. „i
By the Honorable Thomas Ersxine.
M»y tj §
By John Fenno, N°* 119 Cbefnut Street,
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, MAT 26, i 797
' ! Millinery Room,
ie A'o. 136 Mdrtet-Jlreel.
te • _
MISS CHJtrSTAL
e T A , KE , S 30 CJrly °PP nrtun ''y "I" acquainting
U r "er! I lends that she has received by the
<- rrvpiH- PtNN ' 3 varicf y NEW ME-
Sco. .wlitcli Ihe hopes to be able to
e fh?w them in a few days.
ia Ma . v 18 §3Ol
1- ;
Now Landing,
dt Pratt'j nuhnrf,
FROM on board the ship Thomas ChiJkley,
Capt. Rafer, from Bourdeaux,
pLARETin rafks
a Ditto ip cases
White Wine Vinegar
Red Skins in boxes
if For Sale by
0 Rundle & Leech.
f May ij
Bush Hill.
Mejfrs. Bates and Darley,
Of the NEW THEATRE,
• D Kfpeflfnlly infftrrn the citizens of i'hilstlelphia
1 V and its enviroai, that they have taken the
; manor house and grounds of Bufli Mill (the pro
. I Pfty of William Hamilton, Esq.) and are now
j preparing to open them by-Subfeription, for the
! general accommodation and amufeirtcnt of the pub
lic, under the name of the
andHotel.
Particularly during the Summer feafou, will be
given (three tirres per week)
CONCERTS
Of Vual and hiftrvmental Mvjlc,
After the manner of the Public Cardeui Paris,
Vauxhall, London, &c. &c.
' he Entertainments for the ensuing fummerfsa
fon, pojitrocly to commence
THE FIRST WEEK IN JUNE.
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
One hundred Subferibers, at one hundred dollars
each. The money to be repaid the fubferibers at
ten annual payments of ten dollars each.
An J each fubfciiber to hold a free ticket of gen
eral admifiiun to all public performances" in the
Gardens, for the term of ten summer seasons.
The tickets to be made transferable at the option
of the fubferibers, by giving timely notice to the
Managers, previous to the commencement of e
fuafon, and having the fame registered accordingly.
Subscriptions received by Messrs Bates and Dar
ley at Bush Hill, where tickets for the season only,
may be had at twelve dollars each.
N. B. Admittance to non-fubferibers on each
Concert Night, Half a Dollar.
*,* Due notice will be given of the commence
ment. May if jp
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jan. & Co. J
No. 8 Cbefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly alTorted, very low on
short credit.
March 6. §
Advertisement.
PURSUANT to an Order from the Orphans' Court,
•will be fold at PUBLIC SALE, at Cranberry, on
IWedttefday, the day of June next, all that valuable i
REAL EST AT tate belonging to the Ren). Gil\ett
T. Snoivdcn y decerfcd, lying in and near Cranberry, in
: the county of MiddUfex, totvnjhip of South £run/rvici t
/late of Neiu y*rfey, upon the lower fiage road leading X
from Philadelphia to Neiv Tori, A very elegant frame t
house in a beautiful and healthy situation, painted -white,
| with Venetian tvindonv flutters, thirty feet front and I
thirty eight feet deep, tivo rooms with a hanrffome hall or
entry on the frjl floor, three rooms on the second floor and -
r two •wcll-fmijhcdgarrets. In the rear of the house is an
excellent two-Jlory building confining of a dining-ro:m fir f
work people, spacious pantries and a large kitchen, with 4
every convenience, and over these are three chambers far
servants. To the right is an additional building confifling d
of m chamber below and a library above— under the whole "
are very fine cellars paved with brick. The house is en- C
5 tirely new and fnifhed with tafle. Every room is. bung p
J with bells that lead both to the kitchtn and the fervunts * p
apartments : there is a pump in the yard; and a flone q
and brick pavement round the whole house, which is enelof- g
ei with a.handsome railing, with three gates in fr.ont. g
The farm confijls of one hundred and flxty seven acres,
with a proportion of woodland and meadow, under excell- n
lent fence ; a garden with pale fence ; a large barn, (la-
bles, carriage-houft, cow-houses, &c. all new, and built
in the befltnanner : -with a young Orchard of 100 grafted
trees. Nearly adjoining said farm is a lot of Woodland
of the best quality, containing 37 acres. Also a t ret ft of
land within seven miles of Cranberry, containing one hun
dred and ffty acres, tbree-fcurths meadow and the retl ex
cellent timber. This will be fold in lots or together t as
19 til best suit the pur chafers.
The payments, one third cafk~—one third in one year—
and tfce remaining third, one year following, with inter eft
on the two lafl payment., and approved feeurity.
For further particulars enquire of Nathaniel Hunt,
Esq. or Dr. Ralph Lott, Cranberry; of Isaac Snow den,
at Princeton ; or of IJaac Snow den, fun. Af1.,141 South
Second ftrect, Philadelphia%
May 2J %(mwftS
TO BE RENTED"
And may be entereJ upon at any time,
THAT forcibleand wellimproved water works
on Brandywine, three miles from the town
of Wilmington, in the ftatc of Delaware;
Consisting of
A large, convenient Slitting Mill, ( )
In complete order, having several pair of rolls
aod cutters o( every iize.
A large, Stone Merchant Mill,
Having three pair burr stones, boulting works,
corn kiln and every other necefTary apparatus.
A Saw Mill,
In the best order, and a pair of timber wheels.
A Smith's Shop and Tools.
To'accommodaic these works there is a larje
commodious done dwelling house, kitchen and
wash house and a number of dwelling houses
for workmen, with gardens adjoining ; two large
Pu>«e ftabies, two flone coal houses, and a coop
er's (hop, with meadow and pasture grounds.
' If the tenant cbufej he may have the oppor
tunity to purchale ao excellent te«m of five hor
ses, waggo», coal carriages and bed, with a q,
flock of coal in the coal houses fufltcievt to ma
nufacture three hundred tons of iron,—Apply to
RUMFOKD £3" ABIJAII DAWES, al
No. 7, South Wa'ter-ftrett.
A Lady going to England in the
course of the ensuing spring
WAN I S a pnfon between the agenf twenty and
forty, to attend her immediately and on the
voyage if agreeable to the parties; she mult be of
g an ooltjitig difpoHtion and good temper, will be ex
it? peeled 10 aft in the capacity ef a general aitendant.
Such a person well recommended wilt be libeially
o treated and generously paid—no other need apply.
Enquire at the office of this paper.
M »y ®3- 3'
1 o be fold cheap,
To close an adventure,
7 Bales Bafta3
'' 1 ditto Coflas
Apply at the Store of
Mordecai Lewis.
Ma r 16 fmw
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
Company,
May \/l, 1707.
THE STOCKHOLDERS
TTTHO are in arrcarsfor any funis due on their
f~me ferpe,ftive fllare3 i rtfqueftgd to pay the
WILLIAM GOVETT, Trcafurcr.
10 fl\4vr
! Lav/s of the U". S.
SWIFT's EDITION.
JuJl Publijhed,
Price 6 dollars, j vol. ii.no.
Sold by W. Young, Mills and Son, H. and
i. Kice, M. Carey, K. Campbell and Co.
Laws of the United States,
From the commencement of the Ft.hra! Govern
ment to the end oj the lajl Sejton of Con
gress, <wbicb terminated Much 3, J 797.
1 HIS edition, pubiilhed under an order of
A Congress of the United States, has many
peculiar advantages. In the former one, each
volume had a separate index, whieh rendered
the reference in all cases, difficult and trouble
some, and in many almost impofiible. The in
dexes were., moreover, very injudiciously com
piled. On the contrary, in the present edition,
there is one copious, luminous index, com- <
piled by Zephaniah Swift, Esq. referring to
all the volumes, and comprising in itfelf a com- !
plete dtgeft of all the laws of the United States. 1
Ma y 3- w&s 7 t I
Lafi night for the season. , I
THE LYCEUM,
•FOR FREE DEBATE.
AT O'ELLERS' GREAT ROOM. I
ON SA FURDAY EVENING, ,
May the 2-jth. j
WILL BE DEBATED, 1
Is the profejfwn of Lata advantageous to
foctety.
After which an address will be delivered
from the chair.
Admifiion—one eighth of a dollar.
New Hat and Hosiery Store. T c
Ju/i Imported,
In tltjlip, William Pen* and Star,from London, and
riotv Opening by
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
AT his new Hat and Hosiery Store, No. fu,
Market street
An elegant assortment ol fillcf'cQtton and tkread
Stockings
Silk, cotton and thread Gloves
Pantaloons, &c. &c. „
Likewjfe, ahatidfonie assortment of men's, wo- f
iron's, and children's fslhianahle Hats, fuitablcfor
the Season.
A considerable quantity of lew and tniiidle priced
Hat s aflortcd in cases, intended for country flores
»3- taw
For Sale,,
That -well inown place, called Fahuf.gr/h's
FERRY,
ON Nefhaminy creel;, 18 miles from Phila- 0
ladelphia, on the New York poll road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premises are a large two ttory jtone hotiie occu
pied as a tavern, and a good one story flone kit
chen, a large frame stable with a good threihing r
floor, and feme out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On ei
this place is a most elegant situation for a gentle- n
ram's feat, commanding a view of she Nefham- 8
iny to its juntSion wiih the Delaware, and thence n
across to the Jerfty Ihore. It has the privilege
of one| half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Sabftriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
May 24. 3tawtf. I,
A few hhds. N. E. Rum, *
Of a SUPEPIOR QUALITY,
HYSON ■) A
YOUNG HYSON VTE AS, ir quarter chdls, r
And IMPERIAL 3 I]
FOR SALE RT
A. Marple & Israel W. Morris, J
No. 60 Dock-ftrcet. r
May a 1 mw&fyt s
Richard Bayley c£? Co. £
Late John Whitesides & Co.
No. 136 Market-flreet,
HAVE received per the (hips William Penn and
Star from London, a and fafluonable as
sortment of the following art irks : viz.
Chintzes, and printed Cottons, of * c newest
patterns
Furniture Dimities and Chintzes £
Ginghams, plain arid figured,
Mufiins, printed and embroider'd
Do. tambour'd, plain, check and (Irip'J
Do. tamboured, of a very superior qual'ty
Fine Book, Jaconet and Decca Handkerchiefs
Dimities and muflinets
Damask table-linen, in setts and in the piece
Diaj>er ditto in Cloths and in ditto
Holland and Ruliia Sheetings
Loop'ci Hollands and TriTti Linens Q
Long Lawns and Cambrics
Sattir.t and Silkt, plain and figured ni
Ribbons and Gloves pi
Crapes and Gauzes ,j,
Straw, Chip, and Paper Hats and Bomists, new uj
lhapes cu
Fancy trimmings, &c. pi
With a variety us articles in the Linen-Drapery
and HabcrdiJhiry line. fu
May 11 §j 0 t
Canal Lottery,
?d »•
he
°f Scheme of a Lottery,
Authorized by an aft, entitled, " an aft to
l y enable the President and Managers of the
y. Schuylkill and Sufquchannah navigatfon, to
raise, by way of Lottery, the sum of Four
Hundird 1 lioufand Dollr.rs, for the purpose
of completing the works, in their afls of
incorporation mentioned."
Dollars
i Prize of twenty thousand dollars, ao.ob®
i of ten thousand dollars, io,co©
5 of four thousand dollars each, to
be paid to the pofleflors of the five
numbers firft out of the wheel on the
lift day's drawing, at which time theie
fball not be iefs than joo numbers un
draw». ' 20,800
IO of two thousand dollars each, 23,c00
ao of one thousand dollars each, 20,0c0
43 of five hundred dollars each, ar ( jt>o
r I 100 of two hundred dollars each, -so,coo
I 100 of one hundred dollars eich» 10,000
1 220 of'fifty dollars each, 11,000
a JSOO of live dollars each, *47,500
- 30,000 Tickets at ten dollars each. 300,000
Six dollars for each ticket will only be de
manded at the f time of faie.
All prizes (hall be paid ten day 9 after the
drawing is finilhed, upon the demand of the
pofllliar of a l'or:unate ticket, fubjeft to a de
dudiion of fifierii per cent.
Such prizes as are not demanded within is
months after the drawing is finifhed, of wh'ich
public notice will be given, (hall be confidertd as
relinquished for thirufe of the Canal and applied
accordingly.
At a Meeting of the President and Mana
gers of the Schuylkill and
Canal Navigation—and the President and
Managers of the Delaware and Schuylkill
Canal,
Resolved, That Joseph Ball, John Steinmetz,
Standifh Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Cim,
John Miller, jus. and William Montgomery,
be a committee to arrange and direil the mode
of disposing of the tickets 1 which committee
(hall deposit this money in bank, to be carried
to the credit of an fccount to be opened for
the Lottery.
We the Commissioners appointed by the Go
vernor to superintend the drawing of the Lot
tery, inform the public, that the tickets are
now rolling up, and thpt the drawing will po
sitively commence on Mondaythe 29th of May
next. .
Kubl,
James Jtjh,
George Btidd.
Philad. April 17, 1797. 2avr
Tickets at fix dollars each to be had of the
managers, or at the canal office, near the bank
of the United States.
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufaftured as usual,
Ginger and Fepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Button Ale
Red Port and othe.- Wines, eithe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-cask or gallon—suitable
for exportation or home confumcti&n—
For Salt by
John Haworth.
No.9Bfouth Front lfreet.
May 18 tfe 4 w
For Sale,
At this Office,
No. 119 Chefnutjlree(,
A few copies of a late Report of a Committee
of the Senate, on the fubjeft of the
GEORGIA LANBS.
March 13 £
Caution.
THE Public are hereby forewarned againfl
trusting the step-daughter of the Subfcrib-
her mother, his second wif.-. Repeated
mifconduft compels him to forbid any person to
give them credit on his account, as he wiil pay
no debts of their ccntraJling after this date.
I.UNO BROWN.
Philadelphia, May if, 1797 18—^[thjt
Just Arrived,
In the schooner Dnve, Captain Paul, from St
Thomas, and for sale by the fubferiber.
Muscovado Sugar in hhds- tierces and barrels.
St. Croix Rum in hhds.
And Laguira. hides.
ALSO ON HAND,
Imperial, Hyson, and Sherry and Malaga
Hffon Skin Teas. Wines.
Yellow Nankeens. Holland Gin in pipes.
Canton Cloth. Do. Cheese.
Luteftiingi. Do. Glafi ware.
Silk Hankerchiefs. China Ware.
Sewing Silk. Window Blinds,
Cotton in bales. Rheubarb.
Peruvian Bark. Qui.kfilvcr, &c.
JOSEPH SIMS.
, May lid. d141.
Jonathan Harvey >
No. 106 SOUTH FRONT-STREET,
HAS FOR SAW,
A generalaffortment of Dry Goods
—Amongst which are—
A few boxes Irish Linens.
May 21 ■ ,wllm
To be Sold,
A three Jlory trick House, •with suitable beck
buildings ;
SITUATE in Vine-street, No. 88,
finifhed, and free of ground-rent: has a
neat back yard, in which is a ciflern, and new
pump for r: *1 water—commodious cellars are un
derneath the whole, in which is a dry Well brieked
up, that will hold ice. This property is well cal.
eulated for a boarding houfc. For particalars ap
ply at the premises.
Immediate polTcfliat will he given, or so as to
suit a purchaser.
May 15- 3»wtf
['Volume XIfromllht COLUMBIAN CkNllti£L, t '«
FRENCH INFLUENCE—Nt. IV.
MR. aUSIStt, p
THE zealous supporters of the federal gdv
trmnent, warmed by * just sense of indigna
tion at the attempts made by France to (invert
& inake it I'ubfervtent to her own purpol'et, may
naturally expe&, that I shall charge the whole
body of opponents to government, admirers and
advocates of French principles, with hiving
been corrupted by French gold. No, my tel
low-citizeHS, I am not afluated by so illiberal,
intolerant a spirit. —The sincere objeil of these
rjfays, however ufelef* ihey may prove in *!ie
event, is to allay the violence of par ty zeal, to f
remove from the great body of antitederaliits, a
that stigma wlich has been ir.difcHminately laid \
upon them —-to place upon the heads of t.ie c
guilty done the odium they jnilly merit to t
com ince theirtco credulous partisans that they
have h-ten deceived by fall'e and hollow pro
feffiont of patriotilm, and that if they rtjedl
the incendiary counsels of thofepretended patri- I
ots ( who as Mr. Fauchet fays have all of iliem 1
their prices) the rial friends t®the people, to ,
liberty and law, will receive them with open j
arms, and will bury all palt differences in per
petual oblivion.
Mr, Genet, the incendiary minifler of France,
has been educated in the lchool of sedition and
jteofeinifm.— He knew full well the weak fide
of the human heart. He had studied the exam
ample of the firft matters in the science ot in
ftruiflion, and had learned the secret of govern
ing the majority by the mjchiQitiers of an art
ful and an intriguing minority, lie lud leen,
t'lat by two powerful engines, the mightiell
monarchy in Europe h*d been battered to the
gre«nd. .
A venal and abandonedprtfs, devoted to le-"
dition, is alone fiifScient to involve in general
ruin, the faireft ftru<s\ures —rthe mull collly edi
fices of law and government. But combina
tions of men. for the purpose of watching the
nieafures, and of "J lopping the wheels' of a
government, whatever they may stile therofelvet,
whether denominated"conflitutioual societies, '
«' jacobin alVeciations," or by by the more mo
dern and elegant name of affiliated clubs,
are Hill more masterly inventions in the cause
of terrorism and anarchy. I am individually
convinced that no form of gtjveipment, no ci
vil focitsy, can long under any circumstances,
withftaiid tjhe combined force of
powerful enemies. # •
Geset, frefh from a country in which these
terrible inftiumcr.ts of despotism were, madly
triumphant, heated, boiling over witn that fa
natic p'arenzy, that savage, that fierce dtmentia
which was epidemic in the sanguinary reign
ef Sabtfpitrre, furnamed the humane, made his
firft debarkation, at Charlcfton, South-Carolina
—a spot of all others oft the continent, the belt
fitted to promote the pacific objeils of his milT
ion. That kit landiug at this place was a part
of that nefarious confpiracytoihrow this coun
try into the war, or to separate the affeflions of'
tiie people from the government, cannot at this
period be denied, fince'ithas been h often re
jected in the public prints, and no pretext, no
jpology either ufcicia! or private has ever been
offered for this daring and outrageous insult up
en the dignity of our country. The incendia
rf mimlfcr began his careeer by granting com
n.ilEons for privateers to any who app:ied for
them-, by enco .raging the spirit of rapacity
and plunder ; by authorizing and procuring
thesnliftment of foldicrj within our territories;
by ifilling commissions and employing Ameri
can citizent to begin a military enterprize with
in our jurifdiflion ; by receiving repealed ad
drei ts publicly at mioifter of France before he
produced his credentials or had received his ex
tquatoi ; by flattering thepafiiens and he vl
#t v of < ur citizens, and by perfuadiiig them to
eoiilider the eaufe of France as their ewn in his
own fulfomc answers tot ieir addresses ; by pro
felling a regard ai.d an affeflion for this coun
try and its citizens which the event hat proved
to be falfe and deceitful ; by engaging on his
•fide (in what manner or by what means they
best can tell) the Editors of several newfpapert
in the moll populous towns in the United States;
encouraging the circulation of those profti
tuled vehicles of slander ; by excluding from
those papers (which have since been denomina
ted French) every fentimeot and every publica
tion which would have counteracted theicviewt
—and left any candid citizms lhould doubt the
truth Of this .-flertion, I publicly challenge any
writer to produce a single publication in Bache's
Aurora, Greenlcaf s Argus,or the lying Chro
nicle, in wnich tha federal government or the
Eritifc nation, if ned, have not been
aLufed and execrated, or in which the French
jrieafures, either in Europe, or with refpett to
ut, have not been approved and applauded.
Like a weathercock, or like the Vicar of Bray,
they have swivelled louad and veered about
with all the abfurditiet, contradi&ions and bar
barities of the French jacobins. Genet had
not enly engaged etitain papers to fuyport his
vije measures, but he had enlisted the ahleft wri
tert, whose"" confidences had their prices."
In whit manner this hat been done, whether by
gold or flattery, it of little moment to the pub
lit who have fuflertd. Mr. Secretary Dalits a
Britilh emigrant, can no doubt resolve this point,
if properly fee'd. He can inform the public of
what nature bis reward was far quibbling in di;-
ftnee of hit patron Gene* when charged with his
traitereus appeal from the cenftituted authori
ties ; and if we give any credit t;> the memora
ble, and never to be forgotten letter of Mr. Ftu
ebet, Vr. Dallas could give us some light as to
the negotiation with the flour merchants, about
which some enviout clous still haflg and hover.
That Mr. Genet employed an engine still more
forcible to batter down the goodly Abric of
our conftitutiou ; that he had nearly-accomplilh
ed hit objeft of involving us in the war, if the
prudence of our executive had not snatched us
from the impending min, I will endiavorto es
tablish in my next. LEONID AS
BALTIMORE, May 22.
Aiout 5 o'clock yesterday afternoon, t*o
• clouds paS'ed over this city, and befidet pour
ing down a great quantity of rain and hail,
discharged also much ele&iical matter. They
ar*fe» one in the northwest, the other in the
foolhwefl, and advanced rapidly with a veiy
formidable appearance, until they-had arrived
over about the middle of the citv, when they
emitted two dreamt of the fluid, which suc
ceeded each other in the space of about three
minutes, with tremendous claps of thunder.
The firft one struck the chimney of Mr.
George Grundy't house, in Market Ibect,
and made its descent through nearly the en
try 1* the hoofr, without doing it any con
siderable injury. Fortunately, no one was
in any •( the rooms through which it pafTcd.
The lail struck Mr. Simpfon't warehouse, a
bout 300 yaida foulhof the former ; it ca
tered at the upper part of the dormant win
dow, and (hivcrrd one us the rafters, but was
carried of hy the hinges of the froot doors in
the diiTe;«>t Tories, üb'ch were in a line un-
der each other, witho.rt dabg; aay matfiitl f
damage. N
c<
IXTR A.C T S in
From a Charije delivered to the Giand Juiy
for the dillrict of Miryland, in the circuit ei
court of the United States, held at Anna- tl
polis, on the Bth of May, 1797, by the t!
honorable James Iredell, one of the aflo- si
ciate judges of the-fupretne court of tb« p
United States. "
" If after all, any individual disapprove of c
the voice of his country, what does dtfty and
common modfily requite of him? lo be t
perfefUy confident he is in his opinion", v
and those entruftcd to decide are wrong 1 t
Who is the man entitled to so arrogant an i
cftimation of )ii3 own abilities i Is he ri-.fhiy
to determine that.the measure has been adopt- <
ed from some difhorieit motive ? W-hat right I
has one man to charge another with dilho«ef
ty without proof? Let him prove and punish 1
if he can. If he can do neithei, but will 1
throw out calumny at random, he mult (land
in the view of his fellow citizens as a slan
derer, and incur tile suspicion that his readi
ness to fufpeft others of dilhonorable inten
tentions, Ims probably arisen from something
in the texture of his own mind which led him
■ to ascribe worthlcfs motives as the most na
tural inducement of action. The part surely
" for every man who loves his country, but
who disapproves ef any public authoritative
j decision, is to submit to it with diffidence and
t refpeff, considering the many chances there
are that his own opinion may be really wrong,
- though ho cannot perceive it to be so; that
1 whether it may or not he does not live ix a
" defpatic goverhment where any one man's
I opinion, not even his own, is to decide for
j all others ; and that the very basis of all re
publican governments in is the
' fubmiflion of a minority tathe majority, where
- a majority are conflitutionally authorifcd to
' decide. For a man lo call himfelf a republi
e can without entertaining this sentiment, is
■ folly. *To be one, without afting upon it,
is impoflible.
0 "To you, gentlemen, are committed pro
secutions for offences agaitift the United
e States. The objeft is the preservation of a
y union, without which undoubtedly we should
BOt now be enjoying the rights of an inde-
pendent people, and without the support of
s which it Ts vain to think we can continue to
a enjoy them. This ceuntry has great energies
1 for defence, and by supporting each other
~- might defy the wot Id. But il we disunite,
1 if we fuffer differences of opinion to corrode
~ into enmity, jealousy to rankle into diitruft,
weak men to delude by their folly, abandoned
.. men to disturb the order of society by their
0 crimes, we must expeft nothing but a fate as
n ruinous at it would be difgraceful, that of
- inviting some foreign nation to foment and
l " take advantage of our internal discords, firfl
making us the dupe and the prey of an am
r bition we excited by our divisions, and to
g which those divisions, if continued, muffin
; evitably give success. So critieal and peeu
i- liar is our situation, that nothing can save us
1- -from this as well as every other external dan
ger, but constant vigilance to guard against
e even the most distant approaches of it, and be
ing at all times ready to provide adequate
0 means of defence.—Our government is so
is formed, that that vigilance can always be ex
)- crted, and those means when necessary be
1- drawn forth. To rely upon these is not only
, d our indispensable duty, but the only chance
!S of securing that union of spirit and exertion
J s without which in a moment of danger noef
l; forts can be of any avail. For 21 years that
i- union has pteferved us through multiplied
dangers, and more than once rescued us from
l * impending ruin. I trnft it will yet display
1 itfclf with its wonted efficacy, and that no
threats, no artifices, no devotion to names
iy without meaning, or profefSons without fin
'j cerity, will be capable of weakening, by any
0- impreflion on a sensible people, a cement cf
>e fential 10 their ex'iftence.
1, " I have troubled you with this address,
to gentlemen, on account of the extreme im
d. portance of the matter of it at the present
f' moment The sentiments have flowed warm
ut ly from my heart, and I flatter myfelf are
not uncongenial to your own. The present
situation of our country is such as to require
the exertion of all good men to support and
" save it. I enter into no particulars, as the
>y legislature of the United States are on tfce
b- point of meeting, and for whose decision every
* worthy citizen must wait with solicitude and
respect. In the mean time it is of the ut
e_ most consequence that every man lhould fa
ils credly obey the laws of the country aflually
ri- in being. They cannot be altered, n«r the
a- observance of them in any instance dispensed
with, without the authority oj" the Congress
to of the United States, in any exigence, how
ever great, in any situation, however alarming.
re There it no occasion to doubt, but that the
of whole proceedings of that most refpeftable
h- body, will be condufted with a degree of
»e temper and firmnefs suited to
ul and trying situation which called them toge
ther, and that the great obje£t of all their
deliberations will be, if poQible, to preserve
thepeace,at the fame time that they i%aintain
inviolably, the honor, the interest, and the in
dependence of their country."
i! ' LONDON, March 25.
;y > t
It letters from Madrid, inserted
in the Paris papers, that all the officers and
.j crewt of the Clips, engaged in the aftion of
the i<}.lh February, at well as the officers of
c those which took no part in the engagement,
are in close confinement ; that on the return
r of the fleet at Cadiz, the ship's companies
r loudly complained of treason ; and it was a
t matt?r of general concern, that vice-admiral
' Mfzzaredo, who enjoys the full confidence
n of the nation, (hould bf a court intrigue be
as prevented from serving his country,
d. The fame letters add, that the kind re
a- ceplion admiral Jervit met with at Lisbon,
t- after his Tidory, aVd the pe-miilion granted
n- him by the court of Portugal to take out of
as the royal magazines every article he wanted
in for the repairing of his fleet, and to complete
n- the crews of his owa (hips and to man the
fjur putss with P.Kiosucfr, Ge-«'. ■« a ;, J i
Neapolitan sailors, has si much enrftgeJ the J
cabinet of MadriJ, that it is fupp >!ed war will
immediately be declared againd Portugal.
We uudertland that ia the wifli of the bank- j,
ers, tliat a clause (liould be introduced into
the ail of parliament now under corrlidei'iition,
that bankers as well as merchants [houlJ b«
free from arrest, on tendering tank notes for
payment. The qurdion of making bank £
notes a legal tender is to lie kept wlujlly oat
of tlifcuffion. t
The bankers now begin to fnppJy the z
town again with gold ; for since the bank r
will not take their i-afli wiih promise to pay ?
on demand, they think they ir.r.y as well give
it to their cuflomers. r
One of the 20,0001. p.-:?es drawn yrder- t
day, belongs to the banking house of Han- ;
key Sc Co. C
The Re*. Dr. Foiliot Hebert Walker, £
Cornwal, is eleftcd bilhop of Brillol, i.i the (
room of Di. Reginald, appointed bifllop xif j
Exeter.
LONDON, April 3. ,
Two columns of the Imperial troops sent .
from the Rhine to Italy, are arrived at Ty
rol. The third column is headed by the 1
Prince of Orange.
The greatest dispatch is used in viftaalling,
See. lord Bridport's fquudronfor sea. In ad
dition to the force with which he returned
to Portfmouih 011 Thursday, it is laid he is
to have fredi (hips for !iis ensuing cruize,
making in the whole, 23 failet the line.
yipril 4.
The embargo laid on the fhippirig in the
French ports, is to continue to the 20th of
> May, as our readers will perceive from the
following order, delivered-to the capt of the
Piuflian hoy, which returned to Dover from
Calais on Friday lad j by a person sent by
: the municipality of the latter commune, to
> prohibit his entering the port. It appears
that the embargo has not been laid on for the
s purpose of concealing any preparations going
, on at DunWrk, but is connefted with the
eleftion, as it is to expire on the 20th of
- next month, the day when the renewal of the
3 legislative body will be effeftcd.
i " Ministry of the general Police of the
I " Republic, Liberty—Equality."
- Extraft from the rcgifter and deliberations of
f the Executive Dire&ory.
u " Paris, 27th Ventofe (17th March) sth
s " year of the French Republic, one
r " and inc'iyifible.
, " The Executive Direftory resolves, that
e all communication betwen Francs and En
, gland, particularly by the ports of Dieppe
J and Calais, fliall be provilionally fafpended
r to the id Prairial next (May 20th). The
s ministers of general police and the marine
if are charged with the execution of the pie-
J sent arret.
H (Signed)
" Rewbel, President.
3 "La Garde, Sec. Gen.
" Cochon, Minister of General Po
lice.
s " Dnbourg, Sec. of Marine."
[I By letters from the Cape of Good Hope,
: of ftie 17th of January, we are informed
e that a very valuable Dutch {hip, under Ame
-0 rican colours, had been brought in there by
[. l'Oieufa frigate, capt. Stephens. The car
ie go had colt 200,0001. at Batavia. The
y squadron which fir George Keith Elphin
e stone had sent to inrercept the French fri
n gates, returned to the after cruizing
f- five weeks off the Mauritius, where they
it learnt that the enemy had gone to Estavia to
d refit, after the aftion with the Arrogarit and
II Vi£torious of 74 guns. The squadron took
y fix vessels with provisions, slaves and mer
-10 chandize, and might have made several other
:s captures, but they were daily in expeSatio.n
1. of falling in with the enemy, confiding of
y either fix or nine large frigates.
f- Our (hips confided of the
Sceptre 64 Jupiter 50
Brave 40 Crescent 36
Sphinx 24
it tinder the command of capt. Lofack, of the
Jupiter, who afterwards pioceeded to Ma
dagafear, where they completely destroyed
it the Freneti settlements, as they had no force
to oppose them. In reconnoitering the
j French harbours at the Mauritius and the
Isle of Bourbon, four batteries and a rtlortar
battery opened upon them at the latter
place ; but neither of the ships had a man
hurt, or received any material damage. The
( Spanish war not known at the at the
above date.
■ Admiral Pringlu had ordered the above
(hips to prepare for sea immediately.
Every thing was tranquil at the Cape, and
|- s provisions iheap : European articles fold at
near 200 p?r cent, profit.
The credit of the Bank of England does
c not appear to have fuffered on the continent,
1 if we may judge from the course of exchange
u s on Hamburg, which has been gradually ri
nt sing for some time pad. Yellerday it was
c one and an half per cent, highir in cur favour
,j than on Friday.
vt Very confiderahle quantities of Bullion are
j coming »ver to this country from Hamburg.
n _ A meflenger set off yederday morning
with difpatchcs to Admiral Sir John Jervis,
to be forwarded by the lively frigate from
Portsmouth, in which (hip the honorary me
dals conferred by his majefly, in compliment
of the latevi&ory over the Spanilh fleet, to
the AdmiraUand captaipsare to be conveyed,
of v-*-
of Lailson's Circus,
'• _
n South Biftb-Street.
es
2 The Performances at the NEW CIRCUS
a ' On Saturday Evening, May 27,
ce Will begin by several New and Difficult •
,e Equestrian Exercises.
After wh'ich will be prefrntcd the Panto lucic
p. called
Le Marechal de Logis ;
:d f Or, THE TWO THIEPES.
n Box, one dollar. Pit, half a dollar.
The doors will be opened at half pad five
te o'clock, and th'e performances begin preciftly
ie at seven.
CONGRESS. * J
HOUSE or REPRESENTATIVES, «
Tueiday, a.3. ?
In a committee of the wrote, >ir. Dent in the
chair, on tlie ant'.vu lepoucil to tlie F.tli
dent's Speech, Mr. Nicholas s proportion
being under ciniMeraiian ; te
Mr. Freeman fir It rose- He obftrved, that ~
in his obfervjti«ns on the fahjedl the
committee ainid the cGi)Q £iiiig opitiioni u'l
gentleman whom herefperHcd, he uitJ not meaa p
to expreis his owneitiier wttft confide nee or witii r f
zeal, that though oncof committee that had c ,
reported the avktrefs he rould r.ot approve it in b
lie had twupriiKipaliobjections to it. v
l irft to that pari which went to an unequivocal tl
approbation of all the meafnres of # the Executive b
refpefliilg our foreign relation: aticl Jecondiy n
to tliat part which contained cxprefiions ot re- *
fentraent and indignation towaid' i csnce. In
framing an answer to the Prelider.the tonceiv- r
ed the committee fliould havi refrained from 0
expressing an unqualified approbation or ail the
measures of the Kxecutivs. io omiUit woultl
not imply censure. liy introducing it, it forced
all those who entertain even doubts ot the pro-
nriety of any one Executive measure to vote a- : j
gainitthe address. ' ,
Thr principal causes of irritation on the part t
of l ? ianee insisted upon in the anlwsr were the
rejeitiou of our minilter and thefcnti.ncnts con*
tamed ill the speech iaf the President of the Di* i
reaory to ourlate minister. If gentlemen would ,
look into the Documents laid before the house j
by the President, he was confident they would j j
'find the true reason for the relufal to receive our ( t
minister. He came only its an ordinary miuif-i <
ter, without any power to propose such modi- j
ficatfons as might lead to an accommodation, ' <
and when the Directory discovered thisfrom his . 1
credentials they relufed him. In anlwerto this j <
it had been urged that M. De la Croix Minister | ]
of Foreign Affurs, from the firft well knew that i I
Mr. Pinckney was only the tucceflbr to Mr* j '
Monroe, and that his coming in that quality was
not the ftafon why the Trench refufed to receive \ '
him. Mr. Freeman referred to the documents ]
which had been laid before the house on this |
subjeCt, from which it appeared that thc*ySccrc- j
tary of M. De la Croix had iuggefted a reason
for -the apparent change of opinion on the iub
jeift of receiving Mr. Pinckney. Suppole, the
Secretary observed, that Mr. De la Croix had
, made a raiftake at firftrin the intentions of the
Diredlory, was that mistake to be binding on the
Directory ! . , n
Mr.Freeman put a cafe. Suppo.e aminider
came to this country, would he be considered
: as admitted to all the rights of a mimiter upon
delivering his credentials to the Secretary of
State ? He believed not.
, He proceeded to argue, that the rejection of
an ordinary minister was not a breach of the
law of nations and confequently'not a just eaufe
' of war. In support of this opinion he quoted
• Vaitel, p. 669. He considered Mr. l'inckney
' in the light of an ordinary minister ;he was sent
1 to explain, cultivate harmony, &r. and without
. powers to fettle existing differences. Mr.Mon
! roe had resided for some years near the Repub
lic, and had difcufied and explained such points
' as gave umbrage, explanations were alio receiv
ed by the French from our government thro'
their own mmilttrs here ; but it appeared they
were not fatisfied with our explanations, and
they vilhedfor a minister from us that should
have fuflicient powers to adjust the matters in
dispute amicably.
lie did not wiih to be underltood to consider
the conduct of the French as perfectly jultifiable
—but he could not conceive that it was l'uch
1 as to jultify on our part irritating or violent mea
-5 fures.
As to the speech of the President of the Di
, reCtory he could not fay much on it, he did
not perfectly understand it. As far as he did
he considered it a childish gasconade, not to be
c imitated and below resentment. He read part
" of it. It was certainly arrogant in him to fay
* that we owed our liberty to their exertiuns.—
I But if the French could derive any fatisfaCiion
f from such vain boasting he lud na objection to
a their enjoying it. There was another part ot
j the speech that had been considered as much
more obnoxious. It was said to breathe a design
c to separate the people here from their govera
" ment. The part alluded to was no more thafi
r an expreflion of ait'eCtion for the people, he could
n fee nothing in this irritating or intuiting ; it was
if a mode of expreflion which they used as to
thcmfelves and by which they wished to convey
their affe&ibn for the whole nation. The term
people, certainly ttieluded the government, and
couid not 'iith propriety therefore be said to se
parate the people from it.
It had been observed by a member from S.
e Carolina, that the French had no business to
1. know how far the poyvtrs of the minister ex-
J tended before they received him : that it would
give them a great-advantage in the negotiation
if they were acquainted with his inltruCtions.
e There would certainly be no proprietyor reason
e be observed, why they should be made acquaint
r ed with ivery particular in the inltruCtions, but
T it was certainly not improper that jhey should
n know before they received a minister, of what
e nature his million was, whether extraordinary
for the accommodation of differences or only
intended to maintain a friendly intercourse.
There was one circumstance mentionedin Mr.
e Pinckuey's letter which had a tendency to re
move the opinion that the rejection of Mr.
d Pidckney was intended as a mark of isdignity.
,t He dates in one of his letters, that the Directo
ry wilhed him gone, though they did not wish,
>s it appeared, to take the measure of ordering
him away, yet that they had about that time
sent off 13 foreign ministers. There might, he
e remarked, have been some reason of state that
1- induced the French governmenrat this time to
is fend away foreign ministers ;it was evident that
, r the measure was not pointed against this coun
try exclusively.
f The member from South Carolina (Mr. Smith)
had taken piins to colleCt in one view 4 number of
'■ expreflions to be found in one of the communica
g tions of the late French minister here, to rouse th»
3, feelirgs of the House. The quotation had not
n been tairly marie. Moll of those offenfive expres
s fions-were used by (Mr. Adet hypothetically, and
"" the minilter concludes the fenteuce by exprefling
" his convi&ion that they never can apply to this go
o vernment. But even if this nation had been in
1. fulted by a foreign agent, it this t® excite our in
c dignation against the country to which ha belongs ?
A governor of one of eur states had been grolsly
insulted by the agent of a particular nation here,
the iufu'it was 11.vcr proposed ts fce relented against
the nation that sent him.
It had been said, that the French h*d not com
plained of the British treaty 'rill more than a year
after its ratification. The appropriations to carry
- that treaty into effcCt, heobfcived, were not made
'till June, and the letter of the French minister
■was sent in November of the fame year. But there
are numerous documents to lhew'th u the complaints
of the French were from an early date unceasingly
aitdrcffed from their minister here to our govern
' ment ana from their government to our minister
in Paris.
It had been said that the French had n<s right to
'e complain of any fav-r granted to the British by the
|y treatj, as the French of course participated in the
right by virtue of their treaty Villa us. But tlje
i aiminllra'.ion of iWj ••sttrt : %;t <l»isto
!he th: cii* ; they fnCit on fV.r cojirj: 'hofe
yarn of the British treaty in thu belief: o. v,.Vch
the Ffenth ckim a -patucip-dion, arc :::-t fav.mrs
granted to Britain, 1 ut .1 recognition only ol ibe
law of nations »n tiwfe points from v..Si c h the
French fay: dcpai ted by their treaty with u?, ind
that cjrfequcntly they have no claim to fucli p: cti
eipptioH Mr. Freeman fad a:i extradl from a let
ter ot Mr. Pickering, to fiicw thr.t thegovcrniricnt
deny th',» right of participation to the French,
All idraltad been tln own out by the gentleman
from Sou'h Carolina, that ths people generally ap
prove !of the Britiih treaty ;he inferred it from
the iffurf cf the late elections: l his part he
could fee no jrrer-t alteration to hive been produced
by the lare dc&ions ; and if there had beci|, it
would net have been an evidence to his mind, that
the people approved of the Eritifli treaty. He
believed for his part, that toe opinions of a gfcat
majority cf the ptcple Uacl been uniformly opptled
to it; and those who advocated it were by this
tirre nearly lick of it. It was true a fpiiit was
roused by the cry of " war" at the rime the fut.jeft
of appropriations was pending, that produced pe
titions no: approving however of the stipulations
of the treaty, but aiking that it might be famed
into e.left, fiace.it had reached so lite a (tare.
Another engine he observed had been wieljed
■ with lingular dexterity. Much had been'effe<9iM
!by the u!V or rather abuse of t'ne term." Fi&ekai.-
' ist" and" A nti rcei it a lis r"—fcderiMfij andan
tifederalifm. When the Federal conflitution was
fubmittcd to the people, to approve it and endea
vour to. procure it» ratification, was jedera'.ifm.
Afterwards, when the gove.rnni.nt was organized
and in operation, to approve every mea ure of the
Executive and fupporr every proposition Irom the
Secretary ot the Frcafury, was Wderalifm ; and
those who entertained even doubts of their propri
: ety, ev.n though they had been .instrumental in
• | procuring the adoption of the Conflitution, were
, called actifederalills. In 1794, to be 6ppofed ta
i MaJifon's propositions, the resolution for the fe
i queftration of Biitifh debts, and the. rcfolu icn
prohibiting all intercourse with Great Britain, was
: | fcderalil'm. In 1796, it was fedcralifm to advocate
, ; the Bri ilh treaty—and now he presumed thit it
, would ke federalifm to support the report of the
. committee and high-toned meafuresvgith refti-ft to
, i France In 179,3 he acknowledgtd that fede.-alifm
j alTumcd a very different attitude from what it had
_ | on the present occasion. It was then the attitude
o meekiiefs, of humanity and fuppiication. The
1 men who txclufiveiy liykd themfelvts federal:B»,
' could only deplore with unavailing fii;h6 the impo
; tencj of their country,' an<i throw it."upon tiie be.
' nevoicnce and magnanimity of the Briiiih monarchy
: Their perturbed imaginations could eVen then fee
" our cities sacked and burnt, and cur citizens slaugh
tered. Cn the frontier they heard the war-whtop
r and the groans of helpless wnmen and cbildrir.,
- the tortured vi>3ims of savage vengsance Now
> we are at once risen from youth to manhood and
t ready to meet the haughty republic of Frande, ani.
msted with cntkufialm, and slashed with viAory.
f Mr. Freeman observed that he rejoiced h (rwe\'cr
e that, gentlemen adopted a I older language on this
e than had been used on the former occafio*. He
2 felt his fuU (hare in the national degradation oPthat
y moment. He was in favor of firm language fcnt
t he would diftinguiih betwixt the language »f man
t lj firnanefs, and that of childilh petulance or ridi
culous bombafi.
| . It had been observed, Mr. Freeman Jjid, by
s the member from South Carolina, that the
French were guilty of the firfl aggrtfiion as to
( > captures at sea. That their order to take our
provision veflels were dated in May '93, and
thofe of Britain were not issued tHI some time
j after. It would be recollected, however, hr
u said, that before the French iflued these orders,
the British had entered 011 their plan ufattcinp
r ting to starve France, and had used iur vefiels '
e unwarrantably for this purpose, by detaining in
h thair ports forns of our provision veflels bound
t . to France ; it would also be remembered, that
at this time, the convention between ftuffia and
■_ Spain was in exiflence, and that the olijed> of It
was, according to the declaration of Lrrd
j Grenville to Mr. Pinckney, to detail neutral
e veffelsbound to France with provifioiis. The
rt decree of the Frendi that had been Eluded to
was, he fiff-.her remarJied, expressly predicated
_ on the order of the liritifh for detaining in their
n ports provision velTels bound to Francti.
0 It was however, very immaterial to determine
j- what nation began these depredaticrs on our
commerce; it was the duty c» the leaflatui-e to
n refill them from whatever quarter fliey misht
come, and to protect the property the Arm-'
rican citizens.
I d HiJ- deprecated using in the address about Jo
13 be framed any irritating language j such was
* o not the language of manlydiguity, t>ut of child
v petulance. Perhaps nothing had proved
more derogatory to the of
;i i than thio bombast in some of their public aif.tj
he wiflied not to imitate them.
Much had been said on the foqre of foreign
g influence, in this country ; he#'eared England
and not Frauce was moll to be feared, in thFi
refpefl. He hoped there would be found,
ld ever .' in . the Country virtue enough to repel il
foreign influence.
is! As to tie amendment, he ftiould vote for it,
>n ' ' le not ' l ' n K it exception»bl^,
lt . It did not contain unqualified approbation of th«
measures of the executive, nor any sndignifM
Id ex P rc "i ons ; the ameniiment /hou'tl »«t
prevail; still, the original report might be so
amended as to induce bim to vote for it. He
y hoped, however, a spirit of conciliation would
' obtain, and that unanimity might prevail on the
occifion.
' e ' Mr. Grifwold said, if he underftooj the f.ate
r r °f the biifmefs, the queflion was whether the
1 ' committee would agree to the amendment pro
posed by the gentleman from Virgisia. If it
csntained sentiments accordant to the feelingt
' of the committee, it would of courf« be atlop
° ted ; if not it would doubtless b« rejeiled.
h e supposed it would form an ehjedlion to
lt this amendment, if it were found to be in
to confident with the other parts of the rep. rt.
at He believed this to be the cafe; but he
n- would not make objeftions ts it on this
ground. He would examine the paragraph
0 { it'elf. s* fee whether it contained fenti
:a. me »ts in unison with those of the committee,
h» He b-lieved this would not he found to be
iot tne cafe, and that when the conptnittre had
nd talifn " V ' eW ° f " VTOM 'J be tfj
" If he U'iderQood the propofilian, it con.
;o . tained three diltinft priticiplrs, viz.
I. To make a n?w apology for the con
dufl of the French government towards thil
sly country.
re, -■ * tlie Houfg of Reprefentativej
nft (half interfere with and diftate to the Exew
tive in tefpeft to what cooceflbns ought t«
m- be made to the Ftench Republic. *
■ry .3- ll U P°" the fpiiit of concjia-
Lde tion on the part of France for an adjulfmc' t
!er of the differences exilfing between the iy*o
Governments.
fly 1 ' le a P°i°gyi he said, was a new one, und
■n- one which the French had not thought of
ler making for themselves; for they tell us, as
t0 '' a PP«rs from Mr. fetrern the
he Secretary of State, " thry will notacksow
he 'edge or teceiv: another Minister Plenipatet)«
h- tiary from ths Unhed States, upuj after tV>*redress of the grievance*Ucrra-vleiof the
Atraiican government, and which the Frenc\
Republic hasaright toexpeel from if." We <
fay (or rat her the ge'itleman from Virginia i
Jays in his amendment) they rejected our Mi- 1
niller, « -cause he hr.cl dot powjr'enou^h, — ]
therefoie for the apology now-mnle for the t
Fiench government they were indebted to t
the ingenuity of the mover. t
Now, said Mr. Giif\vol3, I do not wilh r
that the House of R.-prcfeutatives {hould 1
undertake to th.-ilce apologies for the conduct
of the French government towards this. It (
was tiue they needed apology ; but he did *
not think it was proper for us to make them, c
Further, as this "pologv was not made by c
t'lcmfelves, but wholly different from their j
awn aHertions it was not likely that they z
nould fall into it. They fay, " Permit us to I 1
eil our privateers in yunr ports* anhul trea- 1
ics and repeal laws, tnd then we will receive !
Mr. Pinckney, and then we will tell you on :
vliat terms we will make peace with you". <
\fter this declaration, he did not think it t
vould be proper to attempt any new spology <
■»r them. He therefore supposed, that so I
fr as this proposition offered a new apology ]
ir the French Republic, it could not meel i
ith the approbation of the committee.
Thu next proposition contained iii the t
amendments was, that the House of Repre- <
icntatives Ihould interfere with the Execu
tive Pover of this countiy, dittate to '
it what fort of steps Ihould be taken towards 1
reconciling the French Government. He I
asked whether this was consonant to the prin- ;
ciples of the Conditulion ? Whether the '
Constitution had not delegated the power of
making treaties to other branches of the gov- 1
crnment ? He believed it had, and that there
fore we had no right to tli&ate to the Exe- ]
eutive what fhoulij, or what fliould not be ]
done with refptft so present disputes with
the French Government : On this ground, 1
therefore, he considered it as 'improper. .
In the next place, the amendment contain- 1
ed another proposition, viz. That we rely
upon a fpiut of conciliation en the part of <
France, for an accommodation of differences.
And, said Mr, Grifwold, do we really rely
upon this? Have we such evidence as Ihould
incline us to rely upon it > Have the French
government expressed any inclinationto fettle
the differences fubfilling between them and
us ? The communications which were receiv
ed from the Supreme Executive, do not 1
bear thu complexion. The communication
from the French Minifler to this Executive
does not wear it. Our proclamations are
called injid'tous, our [Minister is insulted and
rejeQed ; and attempts are made to divide
the people of this country from their govern
ment. Is this concliation ? Does it not la
ther appear as if they intended to alienate
the affedions of the people from'their gov
ernment, in order to effe£t their own views ?
He was convinced it did, and that they could
not rely upon a spirit of eonciliation in them.
For hi 3 own part he did not rely upon it ; he
relied upon this country being able to con
vince the world that we are not a divided
people ; that we will not willingly abandon
our government. When the French shall be
convinced of this, they will not treat us with
indignity. Therefore, he trusted, as the
proposed amendment did not contain such
sentiments as were likely to accord with the
feelings of the eommittet r that it would be
rtje&ed.
As to entering into a lengthy discussion in
behalf of different meafures&f government,
he did not think it neceffaiyt. If, indeed,
there had been a motion made to strike out
any part of thereported answer, which went
to an approbation of those measures, such a
discussion might be indulged. As this was
Cot the cafe, he Ihould decline it.
Mr. Nicholas said he was very sorry that
he fhauld be again under the necessity of trou
bling the committee with an explanation of
the proposition which he had submitted to
their consideration.
They had been told by the gentleman lalt
Up that It had three obje&s, viz. to make a
new ap;ilogy for the French Governm:nt, to
<3ifl:ate what terms the Executive Ihould use
toieftore a good understanding between the
two countries, aad to fay that wa rely upo<
a spirit of conciliation on the part of France
for an accommodation
He believed the gentlemen had wholly
toiftaken the proposition. In the firft place
it contained 110 apology for the conduit of
France. In this tefpefl he had not gone far
ther than the report itfelf, or the President.
OA the contrary.it would be fotlnd that the
proposition expieffed the strongest difjppro
bation of the conduftof the French Gov
ernment to our minilter, and. went on to fay,
that if it were followed by similar measures,
jt would put an end to every friendly relation
between the two counnies. This (hewed a
disposition for a restoration of a good under
standing if it could be had ; if not, that all
friervdlhip would be at an end. Did not the
gentleman wilh this ? Did he come here
with his sword ready whetted for war ? He
:hoped ntn ; he'trufted there was not amem
iber M that House who did not widi to pie
feive thi peace of the country, if it could
be ds>ne. If this were not the cafe, or i !
no serious expeditions of fticcefs were ex
pedledfroma new Envoy, Why fend him :
Hi trusted negotiations would be fucrffs
"fnl. He was seriously desirous of preferv
iug the peace of the country; he did not
le"ve borne to attend his duty ig that house
for the purpose of declaring Wai, but of
preserving Peace if possible.
That the proposition contain* a kind ol
direftion to thePrefident, he allowed, which
the gentleman might call didnting, if he
plea fed. He would ask what the President
hid done with refpcH to them ? Had he not
freely t<Jd them what he thought was proper
for them to do? If they were not in return
fay what they thought was proper, and
upon vrh»t terms they would, or would not
le reconciled to France, how could the
Executive proceed with any certainty in his
negotiation. Was not the power of war
committed to him ? [No was heard frota dif
ferent quarters]. In effefl, he said, it were
so ; for if they were net petnpined to (ay
td tt.c Extent;yc n wkat terrcs they >
Would wilh differences adj 'hey it.uik '
go to war, if lucli fermi n himfe If* propo
se.l weie not agreed to. Suppofc, fii I he, J'
iie fftoaltl proceed i;»nej»oc«te with the j
I'rcuch Republic, and Ihould call Congress t
together some montT.s hence a d inform o
them he had been unfuecefsful, fhnuld they h
not then be«at liberty to fay, Try other r '
modes ? And if in fnch a csf; they liacl the 1'
liberty, why not exrrcifc ft ocw ? "
Ibe 3d part, which the gentleman from ],
Conweflicut had given to his proposition, 'j
was not contained in it, viz. that we relied h
on a spirit of coiTcilirrion in France for ac- v
commodntion. read that part of his
proposition]. He did oot fav that there was
a spirit of conciliation in that country upon
which we could defend. He was forty to t(
fay he could not even allure himfelf there was p
such a disposition in this ; and if he harl not tl
an afiurance of this disposition in his own ti
country, he could not be supposed to rely a ;
upon it in Fiance. If a mutual spirit of con- j
cfliationdid exill (it was his intention to
fay) it would be a fufficient foundation far
peace. This was his meaning, and he hoped \ "
it wonld not be perverted. J!
No member appearing inclined to rife, as- ; f|
ter Mr. Nichols had fat down, there was a f<
call for the queAion. < cl
Mr. Gih3 said thefubjjft under discussion ' l
r i CI
was a very important one. It appeared to ; 1(
him, from various documents that all the !
Heps taken by the Executive had a viirw to j
an eventual appeal to arms, which it was his j
wilh (as it was the wilh of many in that j
House) to avoid. It was proper, therefore, j
that theclalhing opinions {hould be discussed. |
If the proposition brought forward for this i 1
purpose was not fufficienlly simple and ex- "
plicit, he wiflied it might be made more so. f
For he believed the queltioo to be, whether I
the committee be prepared to' pals a vote, n
approving of the whole course of the con- c
du<3 of the Executive, or whether France '
Ihould be put upon the fame ground with the k
other Belligerent Powers. That (he is at f
present upon the fame footing, no gentleman c
had attempted to Ihew. Gentlemen who 1
wished to get rid of this ground, fay this is a r
thing which Ihould be left to the Executive. £
He thought it was however a proper fubjeit I
for their discussion ; for whatever power the t
Executive had with refpeft to making of
treaties, the House had the means of checking «
that power. Suppose said Mr. G. I were on 1
this occasion called upon to tax my land, was t
it not neccffary I Ihould enquire into the '
ful.jeft, and endeavour to avoid a measure f
which wovld probably prove a serious drain >
upon the blood and treasure of the country ? t
He was unwilling to hare his land taxed for
the purpose of supporting a war on this prin- >
ciple. It was evident that the French took '
one ground in this dispute, and the United '
States another, and wbilft this continued to
be the cafe, no negociation would have any '
effedt. Indeed, said he, it is war ; and if
he measure proposed was taken, we make
war if we do not declare it.
He had merely thrown out these ideas ; if
r;o gentleman was prepared to go into the
fubjeft, he Ihould move that the committee
_uow rife, report proprefs, and ask leave to t
(it again. c
Mr. VV. Smith hoped the committee would <
not rife. He thought the belt way of coming ]
to an ur.derftandjng of ihf proposition would be
to difcufsit. If it were notunderftood,it would ,
be Wrong to vote for it ; but he believed it was
well nnderllood. He thought the gentleman '
f: om Connedlicut (Mr. Grilwold j had given a 1
clear a'nalvfis of it. He hoped gentlemen would, '
therefore, either proceed in the or I
take a vote upon the queltion ; for as they could ]
not proceed with any other fubjeift until this was
disposed of, it would osly be a v/afle of time
for the committee now to rife.
Mr. Hartley commenced some observations
on the amendment, wfct n the chairman inform- 1
ed him the motion before them, was wheth»r
the committee Ihould rife,
Mr. Giles withdrew his motion.
Mr. Hartley said gentlemen argued as if the
adoption of the jiifwer as reported, would be to
declare war. He thought no fucli thing. It
was the wilh of the friends of the repoTt (at least
it was his wilh) to prefervethe country in peace,
but to place it in a slate of defence j but he hel
ped it would not be taken for granted, that e
very proposition in the speech of the President
v would be carried into effe>Jl. He hoped they
hould continue to discuss the queflion. At pre
sent he was decidedly againll the amendment.
Mr- Baldwin' said he had taken the liberty to
txprefshis concern several years ago,thatthiscuf
tsm ofanf«ering thePrefident'sfpeech whichwas
but a mere piece of public ceremony, Ihould call
up and demand expressions of opinion on all the
important business of the fefficn, while the
members were yet Handing with theii hats in
their hands, in the attitude of receiving the com
munications and had not yet read or opened
the papers which were the ground of their be
ing called together. It applied very strongly
in this inltance, as this was a new Congress,
and a greater proportion than common of new
members. He thought it an unfavourable atti
tude in which to be hurried into the very midst
f things, and to anticipate business of such vail
importance to the country, before they had time
to attend to the info-mation which had been
submitted to them. He trusted some fit occa
sion would before long be found to difinrumber
themfelvei «f a ceremony now in this country,
which tended only to evil and to increasing efa
barrafsments —He observed that it was under
the influence of these impressions, he had made
it a rule to himfelf for ipany feflions to vote for
those amendments and thoie propositions in the
address which were mfcft delphic and ambigu
ous, and while they were refpeiftful to the Pre
sident, left the house unpledged and open te take
up the business of the l'effion as it presented it
felfin its ordinary course. It wasonthisground
he Ihould vote for the amesdment now under
consideration.
He also noticed three particulars, in which he
thought the proposed amendment preferable to
the report of the committee, ift. The report
of the ccmmitte had in it twice repeated general
and indefinite approbation of the measures of
the executive towards foreign nations, when it
was well known that a majority of the house
i had for four years pall, been of a different o
pinion, and it mult be supposed many of the
prefect house were of a different opinion.—He
thought it well not to Hep out of their course
' to express- any opinion on that fubjeiil, or to
court opposition. a. He thought the address
* contained too many epithets and superlatives.
c It was a flile of writing which wijl became
y youth and paflionin some *ircurafi»nce», more
rarely the experience am! jrnv'ty of idvinced
lift?, and very seldom r c ..;cil Me t<> the digniry ,
of a public lie alio ii'.dig
nant, itidigujty, atid ii.dighation, npeated no; ,
lefi thin ihrcc or fur jti j dozen lines, -j
Me thought it wr.ultl I.e found difiU'Ult on trial '
to remove thrfe u.'jetflinns from the report with- '
out jiropofing new fenttnees as the amendment L
hjd done { it wss thought the amendment was y
too low on the oth«r extreme ; the word fenfi
bihty, in the sth line, vnigtst be changed into
indignation, for once, and in ftvcral other pla
ces by the change of a word, it might be exaft
ly graduated to the temper of the houle. 3. '
There Wasone thought in the amendmentwhi«h
he wished to be contained in the address, which
was not in the report of the committee, vi/. the
hope of fuectfsfrom fending an envoy extraor
dinary to treat specially on the grievances 1 om- j
plained of, free Ihips making free goods, articles
of contraband, &c. on the basis ot flri<£\ equali
to foreign natians, as to the objection that ex
prefling thi6iwifli is to the executive on
thefubjeift of treaties, and therefore uncondi
tional, he thought the objefiion had equal force a
again K the whole address, and all ar.fwers to the
President's fpeech«t, which are nothing but ex
preffioßf of eongratulations,or opinions, or w i(h
es on executive rneafures.
Yesterday in ihc House of Reprcfentatives, the a
mendment ot Mr. Nicholas 10 the reported anlwer ii
to the speech of the President, was again under con
fidera ion. Mr. Giles occupied three hours in a
speech in Favor ot the amendment : Mr. Gallatin ll
followed him on the fame ftde, and the fitting was
doled by a lew rbfeivations from Mr. W. Smith on
fomeexpreffions which fell from Mr. Gallatin. The
committee of the whole reported piogrcfs, end had
leave to fit again.
By this day's Mail.
BOSTON, May 22.
Captain Hooper, arrived here t
spoke three days since with captain Harris,
of the {hip Alligator, 33 days from Liverpool
for Portsmouth, who informed him, that the
British cabinet had sent off another fpeeial
mir.ifter to the French Executive Directory, -
charged with very important dispatches ; but
that tj)u flag was not permitted to be ac- c
knowledged—This article, we think, needs -
some support. As the Englifti papers on board ]
captain Harris, mult be as late as to April
14, and her arrival is expefted to have been .
made yesterday, it is probable the next east
ern mail will bting an elucidation of this bu
siness, and much other fre(h foreign informa
tion. - 1
Letters in town from Cadiz mention, that >
a considerable number of Americans have I
lately celebrated in that city, not the tri- 1
umphs of any foreign power, but the anni
versary of the day on which our venerable '
forefathers landed at Plymouth. Their toasts
were truly federal, and their sentiments ho. '
norable to their country. I
In the last Centinel we mentioned, in round 1
numbers, the issue of the late important elec- "|
tion in this commonwealth. We now give
the state of votes, at the close :
The whole number is - - 25867 1
Of which a majority is - • 12934 1
The Hon. Incteafe Sumner, has 14530 1
Hon. James Sullivan, 7155
His honor Moses Gill» 354-8
The scattering votes are - 634
By which it will be seen, that the Hon. 1
Judge Sumner has 3193 votes mote than all
the other persons voted for; although the 1
declared majority is bo more than 1596. —
On this ele&ion we mod cordiallj congratu
late all the friends to Union, she Peace,
Freedom, and real Independence of the Uni
ted States. It mull be highly grateful to
their hearts.—His honor Mafes Gill has
nearly all the votes for Lieutenant-Governor;
which, with the number above dated, (hews
the high estimation in which he is held by
his fcllow-eitizens.,
NEW YORK, May 25.
\ v ent leman who ariived in the General
Wayne, from Bourdeaux, observes, That
i the late election has closed in the choice of
such men as will use their influence to restore
a good underftanciing between France and
America—This circumstance was thought
to be pleasing to a large majority of that
nation, who, they fay,' mult now loek to
moderate legislators for jultice and prote&ion.
Americans must be highly pleafcd at this
event—it looks paeific.
Mr. Jefferfon, inftcad of Mr. Madifcn,
was mentioned in yefteiday's Gazette asfceing
expe&etl in France as a 2d extra-envoy.
arrived* days.
Brig Mary, Clevakc, London 49
Sloop Rachel, Livingfton, La Bourgne 11
Capt. Clevake, of the Mary, spoke the
Cleopatra, Capt. O'Conner, of and from
Baltimore, bound to Bremen, 29th April,
in lat. 45, long. 43, out 13 days.
And a number of other American vessels
not patticularized.
The schooner Bet fey, Rofs, and brig
Friendship, Emmes, from Massachusetts, ar
lived at Bourdeaux about the firft of April.
Captain Emmes informed, that on his pas
sage he fpeke a vessel bound to Irejand, which
had on board the Captain and crew of an A
merican called the Elizabeth, which founder
ed at sea, the wind blowing frefh, could not
learn where she belonged, or the maftct's
name.
April 13, Capt. Manwarring was boarded
by the Lively fiigate, which had under con
voy »5 fail, from Portsmouth bound to
Lisbon.
Capt. Hovey, from Savannah, fays the
• brig Abigail, Phelari, was to fail in 12 days
for Europe.
| txlraft from the log book of theJlip Grand
Turh, from St. Thomas, IVilliam Tbomp
fan, mafler.
: May 13, in lit. 32, long. 71, spoke the
> Vrig Polly, Nicoll, from Alexandria, bound
' to Cape Nichola Mole, who had met with
' severe weal her, and loft five of his oxen.
' " May 18, iif lal. 34, long. 73, was brought
e too, after firing 12 (hot at us under National
. Colours, by the Briti(h Frigate La Raifon,
e Capt.Beiesford, who after four hours deten
' tion. fuffeted us to proceed. She had the
e brig Liberty, from Philadelphia bound to
° the Havannah, and a froall Cchooner, which
they called a French privatee--, commanded
, e by an Irishman, from Baltimore, with 23
e women pafftngers—Schouuer and captain's
narre cou!t! not learn—piizrs snd bound I c
with them to Htlifax. J 1
C me pnflTerigers in the a'oovi fliip, John I h
James, of Giufter. and Jacob Perkins, of jl'
Kennebuiik, tu a unfortunate Captains, who f,
had been robbed of their vefßls and caigo,
bv the oiraies of Tortola. -
J.ijlof Imericiw vrjf. lt left at Bordeaux, on
tie \JI of April, by Manwarring,
•tf'ho arrived yejitrday.
The (b p Elizabeth, Skinner, of New
York, loading for the Isle of France. - u
Ship Sultana, Clem ent, of Boflon—11;!'.
Brig Leopold, Goodring, do. da p
Betsey, Mallard, do. loading. tl
Brig Rofanna, Getricher, of Salem, to
fail Bth April, for New York.
Brfg Friendlhip, Claik, of Bofton—flill".
Ship William and Mary, King, ofNew-
York still.
Ship Abigail, Ray, do. 101 l her bowsprit,
and returned up channel.
Brig Biitany, Stoneburby, of 1
still.
Brig Hope, Wheelwright, do.
Brig Hannah, Fisher, ot New-York load- I
in g-
Brig Union, of Boston, up channel load
in?" . . I
Brig Bedford, Coir, of do. for New Yoik,
do. .
Btig Nancy, HoSeran, of New Yoik, do.
John, Stephenfon, of Baltimore, still.
Brig Caroline, Stephens," of Philadelphia,
up channel—finiftled.
Brig Martka, Cummings, ef Newbury
port, loading for New York.
Ship Columbia, Pell, of New York, for
the Isle of France. , d
Ship Juno, BUke, of Boston, up chanuti. p
Elizabeth, Martin, do. do. p
Ship Olive Branch, of and for New York. t |
Ship Hope, Stephens—Adventure, Clark ti
—Gaddeup, Hayward—Gepet, Barret. c
Brigs Nancy, Collins—Wilmingtoi#, Drif
dale—Pearl, Fofdike—Olive Branch, Sands tl
—Franklin, Jones —Liberty, Wallace—
Lucinda, Barnand—and Charles, Foster. f,
. c
Further TtanJlations for this Gazette, from f (
Paris papers to the s.Oth of Mareh.
BOLOGNA, "March 4 d
The province of Macerate, in the territo- a
riesef the pope, has been in a state of infur- ..
reftion. The peasants have put to death
some French soldiers. General Buonaparte ,
sent general Rufea to restore order.
*
PRAGE, March 9. . «
The transportation of proTifions and war- t
like (lores, for the artries of the Rhine, con- ,
tinues without intermiflion, and the prepara- | c
tions announce, that they will be during the t
'present campaign, in a refpedtable situation ; r
so much so, that they will be able to oppose, i
without much difficulty, any attacks the ene- j
my make on them: notwithlUnding the con- e
fiderable reinforcements these armies have 1
detached for Italy. 8
BANKS OF THE MEIN, March 15. \
General Mack is momently expe&ed at {
the head-quarters of the imperial army on the (
Rhine. The general of artillery, count La- ,
tour, has the chief command of the army, (
and general Baron de Stadaar that of the im- .
perial troops.
STRASBURGH, March 20.
The head quarters of the army of the ]
Rhine and Mofclle, are to ba removed from j
Schiltigheim, to Mollheim, a small town four
leagues from hence.
The last advices received from Italy, by
way of Lucerne and Huninguen., we learn (
that all remained quiet in that quarter ; but
the movements of the two armies portended
some decisive affair.
Buonaparte remained some time at Bolog- (
na, and then set out to which (
latter place he will go to Cifmune, the head ,
quarters of Maffeua.
Purfuaat to the above news tranquility
was restored at Turin.
The Banks of the Rhine are furnifhed
with Aultrian troops, in a manner truly
alarming to the inhabitants in those parts ;
they go in gieat numbers to Mayence.
The French generals at Duffcldorff jnd
Cologne, are prepaiing to open the cam
paign immediately.
The French army 00 the right bank of
the Rhine, amounts to 36,000 men ; it is (
under the command of Gen. Macdonald, ,
who acquitted himlelf with fa much honor
during the campaign of 1794-* '**■'
my ot the North.
The divifiou of Bernadette, which was to
have joined the army of Buonaparte, is re
placed by a divifiou of the Army of . the
Ocean..
BRUSSELS, ATarch 26.
The division of the army of the North,
commanded by gen. il/acdonald, as also all
the French troops in the pay of the Repub
lic of Batavia, who are still in the different
provinces, have received ofders to march im
mediately to the borders of the Rhine, —
where the -Republican armies are daily in
ctieafing, by the ntrmerous reinforcements
which arrive from the old and new depart
ments of France. Yesterday and to day
1 pa fled by this place on their way to the ar
my, reinforcements of cavalry, 'artillery with
: their ordnance, and riflemen. Convoys of
s ammunition, cannon and military (tores regu
larly arrive.
I Letteis from the borders Rhine
■ mention, that they every moment expeft hof
tiliiies to commence. Several generals and
: principal officers belonging to the army ot
) the Sambre and Mcvfe av arrived at Bonn,
1 from whence they will proceed to Coblenti,
and gen. Hoche who is mollly at Cologne,
t will delay no time in following, as soon as he
1 (hall have concluded the organizing the ad •
, mioiftration of the conquered countues, and
- the different forms of the aimy.
e HAGUE, March x;.
0 The Batavian /Convention ha*e deereed
h in their Iliting9 of the icth and 111 hinft -
d that the votes for accepting the constitution
3 (hould be taken by provinces, so that no
s one province (hculd be forced to aceept the
| conftfturion, or of feeing it organized con
trary to their will, and that the votes should
be counted by a number of tit 17ms purjjofe
l\r appointed, and not by the primary as» w
Icmhiies.
%ty<swtte*
PHILADELPHIA,
PJfIDAT ErENflfr,, MAY 16, 1797.
* m * A Spte-al meeting of the AMERICAN
PHILOSOPHICAL SoCIETY. will beheld a._
their Hull, this evening, at 7 o'clock.
Friday, May '.6
P RI C E S OF STOCKS,
PmtADeLrHiA, MAT 22.
6 per Cent. lt/10
Jjeferred 6 per Cent. lifj z I if
5 j pet Cent. *
4 per Cent.
3 per Csnt. Xofi a 6
B A K SHARES.-
Bank United States, 18 a 10 per caot. advance.
1 cnnfylvania, IS
Noitli America, 47 4 S°
IXSUR ANCE COMPANY SHARES.
I. C. of N. A. 35 » 37 4 per cent. advance-
Pennsylvania, at par.
a**ivtd- DAYS.
Ship Mexander Magnus, St. Baalwl.
Schooner Han iot, Sweetfer Sc Thomas'
Sloop Betsey, Reed P'ovideuct 7
From the Connecticut Gazette.
Mr. Printer,
AT a time when thi United Stales
threatened from disTensions within, and a
powerful nation in Europe ; a friend to the
peace and bappinefs of t.is eountry, wishes
through the of your valuable paper,
tu ufler a few serious thoughts to the candid
corilideration of the public.
Waving all difputesabout the re&itude of
the federal adminiilalion, in refpeft to F.ng
lasd and France ; for the fake of the utmoit
fairnefs, even admitting it like all human pro
ceedings," to have been fallible and wrong in
some inilances, let us attend to a fet.of men
in this country, in regard to the piracies and
depredations committed by French privateers
and ships of wat on the American commerce,
by the express order of their government, in
fciredl violation of their treaty with this coun
try. The common language with these men
is, " that we jullly deserve this treatment be
cause we have been ungrateful to France
Some even of public officers, have openly de
clared " that they were glad - the French
treated us in this manner." The language
of these men is too ridiculous, and deteltable,
to be considered with calmness : Have we
not a constitution the bed in the world ?
Was not this c.onfljtution adopted in the
faireft manner (by the voice of a free and
enlightened people) of any in the world?
Were not the members of government who
adminidered this constitution, freely ele&cd
by a free people ? Did Americans, like the
French, ever submit to a decree of the federal
convention, for electing two thirds of their
own body to adminider the government ? Is
not the federal government, considered in
every point of view, the mod legal, the mod
free, and mod equitable of any government
in exidence ?* Do not the obligations of a
people to ftipport their government, arise in
pioportion to its lcgaliyand excellence?
| Do not the independence and political ex
igence of' America, depend upon the union
of the people? Is a union possible so long as
a large party is vlllifying the government,
and inviring the French to ruin coun
try ? Do not the present depredations of the
French become chargeable to these men?
Are not they the pirates who have ruined the
American commerce ? Are net they the
traitors whs are in rebellion againd their
own government ? Are not these men" the
feourges of their country, and the cuife and
plague of society?
A true Republican.
At O'Ellers's Hotel.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining;
FOR ONE IV EE K 0 Nl. T.
On Friday evening, May 26,
At 8 o'clock, will fce delivered—firft part —
Essay on ths means of Improvement in Eloquence.
ad Part—Hotfpnr't dticription of a Fop
Cato'» speech over the body of hi» son
Ode to Mad nets
3d part—Clarence's Dream
Richard HI- the night beloretiie battle of Bofworth
Alexander's Feast.
Tickets (half a dollar each) tobehadof Mr.
Poulfon, at 'he Library, and at the Bar of
O'iillcrs' Hotel-
For Sale or Charter,
* - THE SHIP
r- WARREN,
Benjamin Church, Majler.
©jCOf about 180 tohi b»rthen. Eb
; quire of *
°lfcffe if Robert Waln-
May ,6 $_
To Let,
And pejfejji'n given in l<w» iveelt,
A good 3 story Brick House,
With liackbuildings—Ne. 43, Spruce-flriet.
Apply at No. 109 Sproce-ftreet.
May s6
For Sahy
A large new Houf^,
Situate on the north fide of Arch-street, above
i Seventh flreet. May be viewed at any time, and
I particulars IsnoWn by application to
SAMUSL W. Ft S HER.
■ No. J3, Arch street.
> May »6 *P
) - " 1 ' ■
e ' ? For Freight or Charter,
To any part of Europe,
d The Sivedifb Skip
Alexander Magnus,
d Capt. Carl O. Ehsman,
\ BOUT 150 tons burthen, in thi< port ; and
ti also the Daailh Ship FREDERICK |UIIOS
n SEAL'S, of 4iO ions,cov; lying in Maaipto 1 Heads.
« Apply to JOHN VAUOHAN.
Ie May 26, t*thf6tImportant Public Document.
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
And ft- Sale
At the Office of the Editor ofthe Gazette of the
' United States,
Mo 119 Chefnui-Sircet,
[PMCI ONI »3LLA* AND TItTY Cl*T»]
A FEW toPliS OF THE
R-eceipts and Expenditures
OF TUB UNITED STATES,
For the Year 1795» ~~
Bcirjthe Latest Peiiodto which an account
can be made up. -
February aa. §•
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST it id proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pip?§
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, iti cases of 40 dozen each
GUfs Tumbler?, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different lizes
Hazlenuts, infaiks
Whiting "J '
Copper*. ( . hhJ
White Lead C
& Spaniih Brown J
For Sale bv
PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 §.
SWAN N'S
Riding School, Horse Academy & Infirmary,
Adjoining the Peblic Square. Market Street.
T. SWANN
P.ETUItNShis fjneere thanks tothofe gentlemen by
whom he has been employed, during bis rendence in
t!*b City, and flatter® himfclfthat the fuccefs.of his
efforts, in the numerous, obstinate and dangerous dif
cafes in Horses, in which he has been consulted, to- |
tether with his moderate charges, will secure their
future. f?vors and recomlncr.dation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public
at large that hts spacious and commodious premises,
c:e&ed for the purposes above described are open'for
the reception of pupils of either sex, who with 10 be
inftrudted in the Art of Riding,and the light method
cf governing their horses, so as to ride them with
ease elegcnce, and fafety—their horses will be care
fully and expeditiously broke, for every purpofe,and 1
made obedient to he 1 will of the riders; the natural
powers which are fbut up in them, will be unfolded
by art, calling forth uniformity of motion, and giving
to noble animal all thole beauties of aftion which
providence has so bountifully bellowed on them.
Also, at his hospital, every diforderto which the
horse is liablp will be treated according to the rules of
art, confirmed by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the above inftiiution has never been
qneftioned, that it has long been wanted in this city,
gentleman's stud willmanifeft, and T. Swann
as the fiift eftablifber of the veierenary art, solicits and
relies upon the fuppott of that public (which he is
ever anxious in ferviftg) to enable him to bring it to
prtrfeltion. The idea of a fubfeription for that pur
pofehas beeu hir.??d by fevera 1 gentleman, who wish
to promote the inftitution —the amount of each fub
fcrip ion to be returned by fcrvices in any of the de-
he profeffes, agreeable to the rale of charges
lifted in his hand bill. Suchfubfcription is now o
pen, and the signatures of rasmy refpeftabjc gentlemen
already pbiained. He therefore iniorms his friends
and such Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being kftOwn, that he ftrsll in a few
cia >*s is ktthe liberty of waiting upon chtm and foltci*
ting their support and proteftion.
N. B. Hoi tcs are properly prepared fpr those £a
diessnd Geiitletnenwho wish to be ihllrufted.
Nov. 5. tth&f.
* Advertisement.
To be fold ut private file,
A LIKELY strong hay HORSE, j years
old, lit for thefaddle- Also, a likely full
Wooded MAKE, 4 years old, runs well,and is
now fit for the path— hey are lately from Vir
ginia, and may be seen at the ftabies of Jaims
M'Cawley, No. 45 in Cherry alley. Any per
son desirous to buy either or both, mud apply
tn the owner, at ivlr. Valley's corner cf Cherry
alley and Fourth-street.
May 21. ~jt
Lancaster, Harrijburgh, Carlijle,
Sbtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGE S.
THE public are requested to take notice, that
the partnerihip which has for some time fub
fiited between Mathins Slough of Lagcafler, and
\Villi3m Geer, is now difiolvcd: but, not as M.
Slough insinuates to the public without just cause ;
as will mdre fully appear by a letter on the fub
je& from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
December last. a recital'of which is not now deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
more circiimftanti&lly informed of the merits of
this bufinjfs, by applying to W. Geer may have
the pcrafal "cf M. letter, afcd then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfe#ly jultifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance froin Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were k pleafed to confer on the firft effort in
this business, William Geer, in eonjun<sHon with
MefTrs. Reily, Weed and Wi'mer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, wish every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic canpoflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horse*, and every appurtenance to
render the paflage fafe arid commodious, inform
thof« wno wish to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street", Philadelphia, on every Monday (
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto *
e(labli(hed.
For the further accommodation of the public, '
a Stage will start CveJy Wednelday from the house j
of Samuel Elder, m Harrilburg, arrive at Sun
bury in N#rthunvbcrland county, every Thursday,
and return from the«ce and arrive at Harrifburg
cveiy Saturday, so that pafTengers destined for
Lancader or Philadelphia, may proceed On Mon- 1
days. 4 I
WILLIAM GEER. 1
Lancaster, Jan. 27, 1797. *
N. B. This 1 -inc ®f Stages starts ' from thj I
liO'jfc of William Ferroe, in Lancaller, on every "
Tuesday and Saturday moniinjr at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the lioufe of I
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wcdncf
day mornmg, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Sihippenfburg, and returns j
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
lame routine daily a> in its tcrtir from rhiladcl
phia. mwf
C0L1) AND SILI'ER
bullion.
THE highest price in ready money will be j:i- t
veil for gold or silver bullion, old gold or c
(liver, or gold dust, at No. 29, North Seventh- l:
ilreet. I
April so «vr£w
A FEW BOXES OF L
Bologna Sausages,
Of a fupcrior quality, to be Sold at No.
199. South Fioul-Strcct. . p
April ao, eoif
Tltt. !:o!dcrs of Rebert M«and John l4i
-cfeolf«i'j» notes and accepiT.nces, deposited as
collateral securities for the engagements of Edward
Fox and JamcsGreenlcai, are re que led to
TAKE NOTICE
c That the fubferibers, at the request and by the
authority of the holders of near nine tenths of the
amount oF the papoc above alluded to, have receiv
ed from George Simpfon, an aHignmcnt of the
trust tinder which the said note* and acceptarces
g are secured, together with all t!.c dreds and obli
gations thereunto attache^ —therefore any applica
tion for sale of any part of laid property!* to be
made to THOXIAS W- FRANCIS,
lt HKNRY PAATT,
JOHN MII.LKP, jun.
JOHN A*SHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
Mjfch a. m&th f
M oticc.
April id. 1797.
THE Managers of the Canal Lottery, No.
11, an nounce to the public, that the
drawing will pofitivcly commence on the twen
>s ty-ninth of May next. Tickets to be had of
. either 0/ the managers, and at the Canal Office.
Wm. MOORE SMITH, Sec'y.
April 3 mtb, t29thM
A New Work.
1
PROPOSALS
For'printing and publiftiing, by fubferiptioo, The
, History of Pennsylvania,
IN North-America, from the original inftirution and
fettlcment of that province, under the firftproprt
„ e£ar and governor, William Pr*«w, in 1681, 'till
' alter the year 1742; with
AN INTRODUCTION.
Refpefting the Life of W.PENN,
] Prior to the grant of that Province, and the reli
~r cAus Society of the people called Quakers; with the
FIRST RISE of tbe NEIGHBORINGCOLONIES,
- more particularly of WES T-NEW- JERSEY, and the
Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDES on DEL A
s WARE.
To which is added,
i A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE.
And of the general thte, in which it floiiriOied,
[, principally between the years 1760 and 1770. The
I whole including a varietv of things, ufeful and in
tereOing to be known, refpe&ing that country in early
, time, See. Wilh an appendix.
| Written principally between the years 1776 and 1780,
By RcSert Proud.
H Fulchrum ejl benejacere i etiam benedicerc
hand aijwdum tji t vel pace vcl hello ctarum fieri luet
£•1. Catalin.
" Sed cum plerique arbitrentur res bellieas majores ejfc
quant urbanas, minuenda eft lac opinio."
Cic. Off.
(Entered according to taw.)
-- *
11 WILLIAM PENN, the great legislator of the
Quakers, (in Penufylvnia) had the success of a con
queror, in establishing and defending his colony, a
mong favage'tribes, without eVer drawing thefword ;
the goodness of the moil benevolent rulers, in trea
ting his fubjefts as his own children ; and the tender
nefsof an universal father, who opened his arms to
all mankind without dilhn&irtn of feft or party. In
his Republic it was not his religious creea» but per
sonal merit, that entitled every member of -society to
the ptole&ion and emolument of the State'"
F-][ay on 'Toleration, by Arthur o*Leary.
CONDITIONS.
I. This work will be printed in two o£lavo vol
umes, neatly bound and lettered, both in sheep ami
calf, for the choice of the fubferibers; on paper firoi
lartathatof the condUions, aspubli/kidinlheSubJcTip
tionpapers.
11. The head of William Penn, handsomely en
graved, will be prefixed to the firft, and a map or
(ketch of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the
second volume.
Ill* The price to fubferibers will be four dollars
and an half in iheep, and five dollars in calfone
dollar to be paid at the time of fubferibing, two dol
lais on the delivery of the fiift; volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery of the second.
IV. When one thousand copies are fubferibed
for, the work will beiaut to press and finifhed with
all convenient expedition.
SubfcriptiiH** will be received by Zachariah Poul
fon, jun. Printer, No. 80, Chefuut-ftreet, and at the
Philadelphia Library in Fifth-flreet ; by Isaac Col
lins, Printer, and Joseph James, Merchant, New-
York; by John P. Plcafants and George W. Field,
Merchants. Baltimore; and by other persons both
in town and country.
February 18. tu&f
To be fold or let,
And immediate given,
A genteel two story Brick House ;
OITUATE on the urper end of Broad-street, in
O the city of Burlington, with four rot?ms and
an entry on each floor, good cellars under the
whole, a pump in the yard, a garden and court
yard, containing nearly half an acre under good ,
ience, with a stable adjoining the yard. The
whole property is in good order. j
For terms apply to the fubfenber in Burlington, |
who will give a credir for a considerable part of
the purchase money if good security is given.
William Coxe, jun. ,
May 17. jawtf
William Haydon, J
Drawing Master, from London ; I
WHERE he fludied several years under one l
of the most emineKt mailers in that fci- t
ence. He attends young ladies and gentlemen <
at their refpedHve houses. His terms are fix 1
dollars per month for attendance three times
per week; likewise all kind of ornamental t
painting, fruit, flowers, &c. taught on the above c
tertns.
A line direiled to W. Haydan, No. 26, Pear i
street, will be immediately attended to. <
W. H. flatters liimfelf his terms will be par- t
ticularlv advantageous, where there are several 1
pupils in the, fame family ; as he makes no al- 1
teration in his terms if there are two or three 1
tofeach in one family. r
May 9. ii
— q
This Day is Published,
BY Mefl* Dobfon, Carev, Campbell, Rice, and the
other Bookicllers,
rice One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegant y printed on Wove paper, and Hot
prtjfcd, ■
By John Thorep&n,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF r
The Constitutions
Of the seVeral States with other, and with
that of the Dialed States: exhibiting in Tables, 1
the prominent features of each Cocftitction, and
clafling together their most important provisions, !j!
under the frveral heads of administration j witu .
Notes aiK^Jbf.rvations.
Vrj WILLI AT* SMITH, x
Of South Carolina, L
L L. D. and member of the Corgrcfs of the
United States. Ii
Dedicated to the People of the United States, ti
N: B. A few Copies ■printed on zc inferior pa- &
per, at 3-4thsof a d:!lar.
February 6 mwf
Imported in the Jbip Pigou,
3 1 And for sale by John Morton, No. it 6, South
Front-ftrtet,
Hyson
he "y ,on S *" (teas
Young Hyson (
v _ Imperial J
he April 20. eotf
For Sale,
bI T W ° LOTS OF GHOUNI) in Kenfing
c X ton, on the south fide of Hanover-ftrcet,
containing thirty-fix feet in breadth and one
hundred and sixty-seven and a half feet in
depth to a twenty feet alley For further in
formation enquire at No. 37, Arch-street.
March i 3. eodtf
All persons who have any demands
Against the eftatc of John Finlay, deceased,
are requested to exhibit their acrAunts proper-
ly atteftedon or before the 20th of May next—
andlhofe who are indebted to said cftate are re
"f quelled to make immediate pavment to either of
0 the Subscribers.
:e ' ROBF.UT HENDERSON,) ~ . ,
• JOHN M'CARA, | AdmtniHrators
April 16.
Translations.
MEMORIAL?, advertisements, epistolary,
and {other writings in French and En
glifb, undertaken by Samuel Chandler, A. M.
tranllator of Le Moniteur, L'Obfervateur, Les
Quit re Fils Aymons, L'Heroine Americain,
1 and many other French authors.
S. C. has been in the habit of compiling for
r ;_ the moll approved publications, & occafiotiallv
ill attending where the hurry of bufmels may re
quire his immediate attendance.
Encouraged and aififted by gentlemen of
abilities, he proposes publiiiing by fubferip
li- tion, a work in French and English, by the
title of The American Speßatvr. The profpeift
• us may be seen at his lodgings, No. 67, Arch
il ft"*.
April 87. |
, Benjamin £9* Jacob John/on,
No. 147 Market Street, Philadelphia,
3, T T AVE just received by the Connecticut and other
ic Al Jate arrivals from Liverpool, a general affort
j. ment ot well cboien
ly DRY Goods,
3, for the ensuing Season, for sale on the lowest terms
lor cafli or the comnion credit.
A large colle&iou of Books at their usually mo
derate prices.
\ c 4th mo»th, 25th, 1797, tw&f£
To be fold at Public Vendue,
1' To the fiigheft bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the tign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 45th
day of October next, at 11 o'clock, A. M.
c About seven thousand acres of land,
. the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
1- lying between Reifter's-town and Westminster,
; commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
'- pike road runs through a considerable partj-of
• these lands) the trail begins about 17 miles
0 from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
" of said Reiller's-town, and extends to the dif
-0 tance of about twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and liai on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
. tion of meadow and wood land on each traift,
1 some of them highly improved, with excellent
- buildings and fine gr;fs.
ALSO,
- A traft of seven hundred acres of
r land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
c Bladenfhurjj, esteemed very good for Grass.
t Richard Ronfonby, of Bladenfburgh, will stew
e this land to any person inclined to purchase.
also,
- A traft of land of about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a half o the President's house in the Fede
ral City. It is nearly alt wood land, and a fine
_ high profpeft, fron which may be seen the
c city of Wafhingtcn, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
. and a part of George-town, and many miles
- down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfon
, by, of Bladenflburg, will also Ihew this land.
1 A liberal credit will be given for the greatest
part of the purchase money, i'he terms will
be made known on the diy of sale.
May 8 k W3m
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extrafl of an ad passed by the Legislature of
the slate of Maryland on the 29th December,
1 1791, entitled, " Ana<£t for ere&ing a bridge
1 over Potowmac river.
s '• And be it ennSed, that the said directors or ,
: any two of them (hall and may require any sum ,
1 or furtis of money in equal proportion from each j
■ and every proprietor, as may from time to time
be necefTary for carrying on the building of said !
' bridge ; and after giving t* ee toontlis public 1
notice, it fliall and may be lawful for the direct- j
ors to sue for and recover in the narna of the !
company such unpaid requisition, with all costs i
and charges incidental thereto, and legcl interest t
thereon from the time the fame should haVe 1
been paid: And the negled or refufal to pay any
' such requisition after public notice lh .ill have 1
been given at least for three mouths in all the «
newfpapersherein before enumerated,'fiiall have 1
the effedt to forfeit all preceding payments made
on the Ciare or ihares so neglec'ted or refufed to
be paid t9 the use and benefit of the coriipany." '
Ihe above extradl is'puhlifhed for the infor- '
mation of such of the stockholders as have not :i
complied with the requisitions heretofore made
—they are as follow :On the jft November, -
1795, 2s> dollars, on the 10th May, 1796, 40
dollars; an the 20th July, 1796, 40 dollars ;on j,
the ift September, 1796, 40 dollars, and on the
ift November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is c
now given that after the expiration of the time '
limited for the continuance of this advertise- 0
ment (three months) the law will he carried 15
into rigid and complete effedl against all delin
quents. c
By order of tile Dire&ors, f
WALTER SMITH, Treasurer. c
Georgetown, May 1, 1797, c
— 'j
Lottery and Broker's Office, o
No. 44, South Seeond-ftrect. 1
* E
rICKKTS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sale •
—This Lottery will pofitivcly commence l\
drawing the 29th day of May next—Check books
for rcgilterine and examination ih this, the City T
of Waihington, No. *, and Paterfon Lotteries, "
now drawing, are kept—also' information where ''
Tickets in Waihington, No. 1, and Patterfoo may !
be had—Tickets in th« Schuylkill Bridge Lottery !
for sale at ten dollars each, and as soon as iflued ■
Ticketsin all the other Lotteries authorized by the' P
Ltgiflature of this date will Ije for sale.
The lubftribcrfoliciti the appli.ation of the pub. '
lie and his friends who wilh to fell bank dock', cer
tifieatcs, bills of exchange or notes, houses, land '
&e. or to obtain money on depafit of property ' n-
WILLI A.M BLACK BUR.V. r.
April 8. , j aiv
Muftcal tnjlr ument Manufactory,
h tJo, 167, Arch-Street.
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable grand,
fjd>board, pier table and lquarc piaro tone
maki r fron* London, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hrpes that by his and attention to cv
_ ery branch of his bufinefe, torr.cT!| a contiuuancc
of their favors. Piano f«r v tes made on thi newcH
and most approved plans, with pedals, patent,
fwcll, and French harp flop, which' he flattei s
himfclf will i>c found en trial by unprejudiced
ie judges, to be equal if net superior to any import
r. Ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inflru
1- m«?nt pu;*ha(cd of him, if Kot approved of in
twelve months, he will exchanire.
' o
' •
N. D. All kinds of Musical inHruments made,
S tunod, and repaired with the greatefl accuracy,
I, dilpatch, and on the mofk reafor.able, terms, for
> ready money only.
Second hand Piano Fortes taken in exchange.
>f May ie. tu & f 2m
s For Sale,
yJ pair of Good Black Carriage fforjes,
_ Which may be seen by application at No. 124,
Spruee Street, between Second and Third.
May 1 a. §.
'>
1. 300 Dollars Reward.
8 "\TTHEREAS a certain ChriftopherF.Parnell,
'> VV failed from Boston, on or about the 27th
of Oflober last, in the sloop Union, with a vatua
r ble cargo, bound to Baltimore, but went off to
v the Welt-Indies where he fold the veflel and
" cargo. On or about the firft inft. he was appre
hended (as a fufpiciouscharailer) inthistown,
and examined before fevtral magistrates, but
for the want of ftifficient proof to deleft him
e in his villany he was discharged.
she fail is, the said Parnell i's a villain, and
is attempting to defraud sundry persons to the
amount of 20,000 dollars.
He left this town about the 10th inft. he
rode in a chair (painted green) drawn hy a grey
mare, and went on the Newbetn road, hut on
this fide Trenton, took the road of Fayetteviile,
r and most probably is passing through the back
part of the ilate into the w«ftern countries.
He had when he left this town, upwards of
2000 dollars in gold, and about 7000 dollars in
s bank notes.
Parnall is a small man, about 30 years of age,
. much pock-marked, and lias long black hair,
remarkable small eyes, and has a down look
when spoken to.
Whoever will secure the said Parnell, and
the money he has with him, and give informa
tion to Benj.Williams of Baltimore, John Hogg,
' Esq. at HilMborough, to Mr. A. Jocelin, of this
1 town, -or to the fubferiber, who is in pursuit of
the villain, lliall receive the above reward.
ABNER CRAFT.
Wilmington, (N. C.) April 26, 179 J
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement nf the Federal City.
A magnificent d welling-houfe 30,000 dollars,
& ca£h 30 3 qoo, are .50,000
1 ditto 15,000 & ca!h 25,000 40,00 a
I ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,000
1 ditto io,ooo & cash 10,000 20,000
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 cafti prize of 10,000
» do. 5,000 each, are - 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
20 do. 500 ' - . 10, eon
00 do.' xoo - - 10,000
200 do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. 25 - 10,000
x,oop do. 3® - r 20,000
15,00® do. io - ?5©,0c0
16,739 Prizes.
33,261 Blanks.
jo, 000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the l ast drav.-n ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
money or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not less than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpeclmen ef
the private buildings to be ereited in the City of
Waihington-—Two beautiful designs are already
(elefted for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; frcm these drawings it ispropofed toeret'J
twocentreand 'our corner buildings,as foonaspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to cenvey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the mannerdefcribed in the scheme for tjie Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary expeufes of print
ing, &c. and the surpluS will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Univerlity, to
be eitdled within the city of Waihington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount ol the lottery.
SAMUEL ULODGET.
,§» Tickets may be had at the Bank ol Colsm- ■
t.ia ; of James Welt & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Gilman, Boston : of John Hepkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard W#lls, Cooper's Ferry. '
mwf 1
For Sale,
At the Office ot the Gazette of the United
States, No. 119, Chelhut-Areet,
The la ft Report of the late Secretary
of the Treasury ; being a brief history of the -
state of financial i-oncerns of the United States.
The Proceeding? of the Executive
of the United States refpefling the western in- (
furreiflion : Containing many faxits and cir- 1
cumAances no where tlfe to be found. 50 £
cents. " t
The Letter of Mr. Pickering to f
our mioiftcr in France. 37 i-j centi.
An Account of the Receipts and j.
Expenditures of the United States for tbe year {]
17.95- _ j,
A few copies of the volume for 1794 miv be
had to complete fe'.ts. ' r
D'lvernois* account of the Revo- o
lution in Geneva. 12 1-1 cents. t
April 3. J c
o
o
Mr. Pickering's Letter to Gen. a
Pinckney. u
A few copies of the above intjrefting paper, £
may be had at tho office of the Gazette cf the U- ci
r.ited .'tates.
Kay I! c
T E A S.
A FEW chefls of Ilnperial, I'yfbn Siiri Snd
Sot:chonjj Teas of a superior ooaiity for
' ftlc"at the (lore of the fuhferiber, the north
west coiner of Market and TluriWlreet «
*° Patent Shot.
ALSO,
, 0 A large CELLAR to be let at a very low rent.
;> Efiqui(e;i9 above of RICHARD WISTAR.
t, April 29. ftu&thtm
s ' «
vl This Day it PubUJhcd,
Price 2; Cents,
By JOHN ORMROD,
" NO. 41 CUESNUT-STREET,
A Discourse,
e « Delivered on.the ltd of Fcbruiry, I*9*,
f' At the FUNKHAL of
>' The Rev. GILBERT TENNENT SNOWDEftj
Pallor of the Prelbyierian Church of Cronbern,
in the State of Ncw-Jerfey,
By the Rev. SAMUEL STANHOPE SMIT2f
D.D. President of th« College of Newjsrfey
March II ' §
The Subscriber,
, Determined to retire from business, invites di
who have any note, bill, bond or acceptanu:
of his, now due, to call for payment ; and thofc
who wifil to anticipate may receive the monej'
at a reasonable difcouut.
SWAN.
, May 22. d2w.
Dorcheftrr, ncarßofto/i, 16 th May 1107
NOW" landing,
° From on board of the (hip GEORGE BAR
CLAY, Capt. Charles M'Alestkr, from
Calcutta, the following GOODS, viz.
> Coffas , Punjum Cloths
I Humniunu Gurrahs
II Guzeenahs India Calicoes
Emertit s Cotton Checks
Mamoodits Mulmuls
e Sahans Red and Blue Eernagou
hkfs
e Tickeries Patna do.
1 Jollas Santipore do.
fj Curridarries Plain, striped and flow*r
, ed fine muslins
i Maragunges Ginghams
Bafcas, various forts Taffeties
f Sattln Romals Bandanno red hk».
, ALSO,
300 Cases Sugar
40 Boxes do.
165 Bags do.
' 70,000 lb. weight heavy black Pepper
£ 40,000 lb. weight Ginger
20 Tons Hemp in Bales
9 Pipes Eaft-lndia Spirits
" For sale by PHILIPS, CRAMOND Co.
' May 4. ritf
f This Day is publiihed,
By THOMAS DOBS ON,
At the Stone House, No. 41 foutiiSecond-ftrect,
Price 37 1-1 cents,
2wo LeElures on Combujlioti.
C Upplementaryto a courfeof Lctfturcs on CHE.
O MISTRY ; containing an Examination of Dr.
Prieilley's Confidetations on the DoSnne of Phlo
giston, and the accampoiition of Wattr,
By JOHN MACLEAN,
■Proftffor of Mathematics and Natural Plulofephy
in the College ps New-Jersey.
May 22 mwfttp
Venereal Complaints,
PUNCTUALLY attended to in every ft age of
that difeaff, without the use of mercury or
) restraint of diet, in any cafe recent and simple, on
> application at *No. 113, Chefnut-ftreet, opposite
> the United States bank, or at No. 170, South Wa
> ter-ftreet, between Spruce and Pine-ftaeets, where
) he ha;» opened an office for the better accoma*oda
j tion of his patients.
. But in Lues Venerea confirmed, Do&or Morgan
j pledges himfelf, that no system of cure
j specious) can be effectual without mercury, and
i that all the known rules of pra&ice for thele two
( c6r.turiespaft, and united experience affirms, that
any fubftitiiie for it is but nugatory, and «nytno<fe
of practice to the contrary mull be futile an J de
ception.
Ntsverthelefs, he undertakes, however compli
cated the cafe, to effect a cure without inconve
nience or injury to the patient's constitution, and
in time not.generally experienced or expeited.
» NB. Regular attendance at the office in Water
ftreet, from the hour of nine o'clock in the morn
■ ing until one, and from three o'clock in the even
ing until ffeven ; but any chcr time at his dwelling
house, in Chefnut street.
May 16. dtf
1 Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sharehojld.
ers, that a further afiefiment of fifteen
dollars is levied on each (hare, payable in the
following inllalments—viz.
One quarter immediately.
One quarter on the ift of June.
One quarter ou the ift September.
One quarter on the ill Dec. rnixt.
Which they are requested to pay to theTiea
furer of the Company at the Company's Office,
No. 53 north Fourth street, agreeably to the
times above mtntioned ; and they are further
informed that on their negledlisg to pay the
fame as above directed, the several forfeitures
direfled by the Constitution, wilil be exacted
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE,
Trcafiirer».
May 15 fun
Gold and Silver Watches,
OF an excellent quality, and neat falhionahb
Gold Chains, Seals and Keys, Eight
Clocks and Time Pieces, fafhionable Steel and Gilt
Chains, &c. scc. for Sale by
JOHN J. PARRY,
Clock and Watchmaker, No. 38. S. 2d ftrret.
JjT Clocks aird Watches of ail kinds carefully
repaired.
May 19. tuef. &fa. 3W
TO BE SOL I),
A valuable three story lirick House';
SITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank of
Pennsylvania, the lot on w'nu li it Hands, so- '
I gethtr with the vacant lot adjoining;, which r-.-
tendc to O;iforth-ftrcec. The house i 6 about 50
j feet in front on and about 42 fe*t
in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet
front on Lodge alley, and 41 feet on Goforth
llteel, being a street which k-ils from Chcfnut
ftrect and Cirter's alley into Dock-llreet at the
horse market. The house consists of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dining
rooms, one of them forty feet in length, the
other about thirty-four feet, each containing
two fire places, two parlours and a large kit
chen, with estenfive cellars under, and garrets
over the whole, a privilege of a vacant kit
ol ground 10 the eafiward between this house
and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
yard, a handfotr.f piazza fronting the vacant'
lot, and a frame stable and dwelling houfc on
Goferth-fireet. The preroifes now rent £cr
£.318 per annum. To be fold cltar of a.l in
cumbrances.
For terms apply to *jcbn dement Sfoeitr.
A r»ri! • r~, C