Unites Philadelphia Dally Advertiser, t
SATURDAY FEBRUART 4, 1797. [Volume XI.
. 'Number I37"*J ' : ——— ; ; 11 •
On SATURDAY EVENING, February 4, J >
between the hours of 6 and BSo'clock,
Will pof,lively be Sold at Public Vendue, at the Mer
chant't Coffee-Houft, pi
A N O T E, ' p
Drawn by William Burgifs & Co. of South Third- «
near Mjrket-ftreet, Linen Drapers, in favour
of Robert Burffifs. jtm. or rtrd*r, for 600 dolUrs.
The said Note became due the 30th December last,
" and was protested for non payment.
An approved Ntte at 60 days will be taken in pay-
stem. 01
February 2. * p
50 Dollars Reward. [|
LOST, last evening, between eight and nine o'clock,
as the fukferiber was going to his house at the Fall' of
Schuylkill, from the house of hit father-in-law, Mr.
Francis Stewart, ir Si'gar alley, between Sixth and Se
venth-streets. afove Market-street,
A black POCKET-BOOK, 5
Containing 1190 Dollars, in Bank-Notes j
I'l-om t to XOO Dollars each, 1
One of which v* as o r the Branch-Bank of New-York, X
and several papers, <uch as recei' ts arid orders. — The
road the fubferiber fook, was the Falls road, eroding at (
th Upper Ferry . J
Whoever finds the above Pocket-Book, and returns it (
to the fubferiber at the Falls, or to bis father-in-law, 1
mr Stewart, living in Sugar Alley, shall be entitled to r
the above reward, paid by
JAMES HAFFY.
Feb. V
Insurance Company of the State of j
Penpfylvania. „ J L
■- OTICE Is lith-'ifrj giVcif, mil dt* diretftor' fiave de
jL\ clared a dividend, of thirty dollars per lhare, on
he business of the last fix months : which will be paid to
he stockholders or their legal reprefeiitativ«s, after the
I oth in flan t.
SAM. W. FISHFR, Szc'Y .
Philadelphia, Feb. xd, 1797. dtioth.
FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP MART, ]
SAMUEL PARKER, Master, ]
" Two hundred tons burthen. Apply to ,
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, Ihe will tak
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Oilober 31. d
For Sale-, or Charter,
The Ship DIANA, ,
Samuil Pile, Mailer,'
Burthen aoj 47*95 ten' register, built in
£023 Philadelphia, in the'year 1792, of live oak
1 and"red cedar, and was (heathed 13 months ago, file
has jult had a compleat out-fit, and may be fe*t to sea
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin $3* Co.
(Tho have for fate on boar J said veflet,
«7 calks of fine yellow paint.
9 boxes and 12 bundles ,of writing slates.
r box ink stands and note presses.
14 bales of faileanvafs.
And on hand,
Imperial ")
Hyson, and, £ TEAS.
Sou? bong J
40,00 pieces Nankeens.of the ftrfl quality.
19 tubs Quicksilver.
t chests Bandanna handkerchiefs.
A few ch-fts Manchevker goodsweil assorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &c.
3 boxes black sewing silk. f\ ■
i!to crates Queens ware well assorted.
* * 10 tons lheet lead.
Nails assorted, flat and (harp points.
London Particular, Madeira Wine in pipes
London .Market, > anc j hogftieads,
New-York Market, J
40 pipes and 10 hoglheads Teneriife wine.
8 tierces Suake Root.
330 logs Mahogany.
Nov- -1 tthfrfif
" A CAR D.
If Monjieur G H• Sohls,
WhoTcfTDofcTeaux TJie TOtbJonc last, and arrived
at Boftqn ibotit the middle ofAajruft, in. the fchonner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is roquefted to call on
Joseph Anthony & Co. No» 5, Chefnut-ftreet, who
will give him forne information of importance-
December 14, 1796. $
Washington Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the , State of Mvylartd has authorifsii
the underwritten, to raise. twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for (he purpose of catting
3 Canal through the City of Washington, fru.u th Po
*omac to the Eatlern Branch Haruour.
'i'he following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz •.1 Prize of 10,000 dollars, 10,000
I ditto 10, coo 10,000
7la ft drawn > 000 3J>OOO
Tickets, each J
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
ao ditto 100 ifioo
SS ditto jo z,7.<0
5750 ditto 12 69,00^
To be raised for th« Canal, 16,15®
5850 Priz«s, *75,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize. 1
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
<9- The Commiflioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aft for the pnn&ual payment o<
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, withou;
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th*
drawing is finished, ihall be considered as relinqnilhed for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, of D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON, ,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
Ctt of Wabirglen, Feb. 11. $
In order to comply <witb coutraSs, I will fell, for
approved bonds, on 3 equal annual payments, j
A Square of LOTS,
At the upper end of Fredericklburg, beginning op
posite to the lower comer of Do&or Welliord's, on
Caroline-Href!, and running up 10 the crol's lireet
leading to Fitzhugh's ferry, and from thence back to
Sophia-street. This square I have laid off into 14 lets,
27 and an half feet front, and 111 back, 11 on Caro-
lme-ftreet, and u 011 Sophia-street. Nine of those a
ou Caroline-street I have lealed on an annual ground
rent of 8 and 10 pounds, to the amount of 74 pounds,
and the vacant lgts a purchafet could enhance the value
of by btrjding small honfes, which will as readiiy
procure.tenants as pots or goards. will Martins in the s
and yiel-o a greater profit ill proportion to
their tfoft than large buildings. Thoff who incline
to purchase may knew the terms by applying to p
HENRY FITZHUGH. u
Beli-Air, Dec. 8, 1796- 7thJ.d 4 w ,
Red Qover Seed. c .
Frelh red Clover Seed of rtic belt quality, in bags of
5 bulhels cach r
Madeira wine in pipes, fit for immediate use
Teneriffe wine in pipes, hogsheads and quarter calks
Ditto do. of fir ft quality, for the use of private
families e
Coffee in hoglheads « t
' Jamaica spirits c
Connedticut soap in small bodies i
Window glass and Spanilh fegars, and
Two trunks of best pitent, plain atid ribbed silk and ,
cotton hofierv, for file by i
JOHN CRAIG. I
February r* wff&mtf 1
l'rejh Oar den, Grass and t lower-heeds, .
Roots, ii?c. iifc.
This day landing from the (hip Eagle, captain Fofdick,
front London,
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Ktcond-ftreets,
/) mojl capital and xxlenfive Affortnunt of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &o. Sec.
Among which are,
Five kinds Asparagus Three kinds CreCTes
Four Bcrecole Twelve Onion
Twenty-five Beans Thirteen Radifli
Six Beetsj Fifteen Turnip
Eleven Brocoli: Fifteen Peas
Twenty-fix Cabbage! Six Savoy
Six Carret: Four Parfniu
Three Cauliflower Twenty-three , Melon
Five Celery Twenty-one Lettuce
Ten Cucumber
/ Common and lemon Thyme
Curled leaf and sprigged Par (ley
Pet Maryeold, Put Marjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek Kail - Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saiju Foin Lucerne
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. &c.
\\ ith a curious collection of the most esteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the most extensive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital beedfman in London, and
are warranted frefh and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Pec. I*l 5
~ Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOBSON,
No. 15, South Third-street,
Has just reeeived, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, via Lou
don, an ;iffortment of
Scarlet
Drab / Cloaks trimmed with lur and
Purple and C ermine.
Pu»rl J
December I ?. 5
X? NOTICE
Sales of LANDS of the Uuittd States, iuthe
1 North-Western Territory, heretofore advertised
in the several public papers,, will commence this even
i ing, at th; » 'ity Tavern -to be continued from day
to day, 'till the tenth of February next, if not foouer
fold.
January 4 i
. Treasury Department,
September 23, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that' proposals will bp re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Tioafury
d until the expiration of the firft day of March next en
,r suing, for the lupply of all rations which may he required
n for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
0 June, 1797, so the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
days inclulive, at the places and within the diftridts h.re
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwcgo; at Niagara; at
- Paefque lsi ; at Sandulky Lake, and on Sanduflcy
River; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Forl-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfen ;at Grenville; at
;6 , Picque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
j Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place btluw Fort
' Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Erie; at Fort
; Steuben ;at Fprt MalTac ;at aay plac; from Fort Maffac
to the south boundary of the United State* on the river
Mifiifippi; at Fort Knox; at Ouiatanon.
If iuj»plies lhall be required for any polls or places not
mentioned in this notice, all such supplies Ihall be f\ir
nilhed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
posts before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the Contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to confilt of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
Qnc pound two ounces of bread or flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacoh.
.Half a gill of rum, brandy or whiikey.
One quart and half a pint of fait."}
Two quarts of Vinegar, ( ,
Two pounds of Soap, er hundred ratiani
One pound of Candles, J
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities, as that
there fUallat all times during the said term, be fufliaient
' for the consumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix month* in
advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term o[
1 at least three months in advance, in good aad wholesome
provisions.is thefame fmll b-: required. It is to be un°
' derlloijd, that the Contractor isto beat the exfence and
r rifle o! iffuirgthe supplies to the troops ateach post, a DI J
that all losses sustained by the depredations of an enemy or
by means of the troops of the United States, ifc»U be
for at the pricc of the articles captured or destroyed on
the depositions of two or more persons of creditable <Jia-
and the certificate of a commifiioncd oflicrr af
certabiing the circumstances of the loss, and the amount
of th: ai tides for which compenfatiou fball be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTr, -
i«r»tary of the Treasury.
• i
PROPOSALS,
For carrying the Mails of the United {
Status,
On the following Pofi Roads, will be reuived until
tkefirjl day of March next inclusive ?
X. "From Ch irleftun, Su C. by Jackfonboro' and Coofa
hatchy* twice a week. Receive the vTail
at Cha; ldfton every Tuelday ttnd Fi iday by 6\ P. M. and
deliver it at Savannah tJKe next Friday and Monday, by 8
A. M. Returning, receive the Mail at Savannah ev- y »
Saturday, by 6, P.M. and Wednefdiy by 6, A. M. and
deliver it at Chai'leKon the next Tuesday and Friday 0
by noon. P a
Proposals for this rout« tutll be received by the pofl-r/i after at
Savannah.
2. From Coofahatchy to Beaufort once a week-
Receive the mail at Copfafratchy every Thursday by 6, —
p. m. and deliver it at Beaufort by noon on Friday. Re
turning, leave Beaufort every Friday by 3, p. m. and arrive
at Coofahatchy on Saturday by 8, a. m.
Proposals for carrying the mail on this route will be r«-
ceived by the post-waller at Beaufort. /
Note 1. The Pofl-mafter General may alter the times L
for the arrival and departure of the mails at any time du* th<
ring the continuance of the contra&s, he previously ftipu- J by
lating an adequate compensation for any e*tua expence di;
that may be ocoafioned thereby. &
Note 2. For every hours delay (unavoidable accidents in
excepted) in arriving after the tinier prderibed by con- ni
tra&, the cowtrailor (hall forfeit one dollar, and if the L;
delay continue until the departure of any depending mail va
an additional forfeiture oi five dollars shall be incurred. M
Notf 3. Should any perlon making proposals desire an d<
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe- 4
eified, hfc mud Hate the alteration desired a*d the price R
he will carry the mail for with and without such alte- tu
ration. Si
Note 4. The ccntra&s are to be in operation on the tr
firft day of April next and to continue until the 30th of
September in the year —
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Pejl Majler General.
Gentril Post Office, >
Philadelphia, Jan. 13/1797.3 , j;
v, »a* 16. d6w.
M«. G RAT TAN
Refpe&fuly informs her friends, and the public in
general, that on Tuesday the letkday of January,
ihe projoles opening, at No. 39, North Sixth
ftrect,
A Linen an'd Muslin Warehouse.
Book Muilns, from 673 to 32/11 per yard
Jaconet dilto, from 8/8 to 9/8 per yard v
S./nped ditto, from 7/10 to 10/10 per yard
Fine Cofl*s c ?
Book Muslins, from 13/9 to 21/ per yard
India Muslin, from 11/3 to Isf per yard
Sheeting Muslin
Jaconet rmflin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 to 6/ per hdkf.
Book mufln Handkerchief from 5/3 to lofO per hdkl.
Muslin cobr'd and border'd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchiefs
Tambeur'dCravats from to Ilfll
Pocket Haadkerchiefs
Cambric, lrom 11/3 to 16/3 per yard
Table Clotbs
"Huckaback Towelling
Women's Cotton Hose, from to
[ Dimity from 5/10 to tfii
Men's Srik Hose
TambourM muslin Handkerchiefs from wfil to I.J/1
Irilh linens for G<>*lerr en's Shirts, from 5/5 W7
And a variety 01 other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
Linci!, Gentlemen's Shirts, rutfled or plain, Cravats,
Pocktt Handkerchiefs, &c. &c.
Houfhold Lin An, & c . &c.
A plaia shirt, made and mark'd, 3 1-2 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 6 dollars
A plain shirt, made and marked, 5 1-2 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain lhirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 712.
' A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 1-2 dollars*
1 A very feme ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Linen included.
January 13. }
r Cheap French China.
THE fsbferibers finding it impoffiblc to supply their
(lore with any more China from France, the prices
being too immoderate in the rnauufafleries, giv* no
tice that they will fell at prime cofi the remaining
lieck nn hand, conlilhng of
DefTert Setts,
. Tea-Table Setts
1 Separate Cups and Saucers
f Grou"|j)e« and Figures
, Alabalter Vases
Looking GlafTes, in gilt frames,
t Besides India Japan'd Toilet Dclks, Chairs, Tables
i nad Quadrille Boxe». I'ASQUIEH ic Co.
No. 91, South becond-ttreet.
; December 5Hi- t{
\ The Elephant,
t Now exhibited, \va« bought for Ten 1 houfand
c Dollars.
c He is 3 years old, 6 feet high,'growing to 18 feet,
r He eats ijo weight a-day, and drinks a barrel us
water j he has drank lome days forty bottles of porter,
' drawing the corks with Ins trenk. .
He is perfe<sly inoffenfive; travels loose, at the
' rate of five miles an hour, and is the greatest curiosity
' -ever brought to this Continent.
He it to be seen 'till tjie ijtb of January, in
Markel-ftreet between Third and Fourth-streets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him—
j after which time the farmer price of half a dollar will
be resumed.
H« will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather
will permit.
December 31 - d
Brokers Ctfice, and
t COMMISSION STORE.
' No. 63 South Third ftr«et,oppofite the national new Bank'
- QAMUEL M FROUNCES and JOHN VAN REED,
n O have entered into co-partnerftiip, under th« firm of
f FRAUNCES 5c VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
e Conveyancers and Corumidion merchants. They buy and
! fell on commission every species of ltock, notes of hand,
I bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Money procured on depo&ts, &c. &c. : all kinds of
r writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefs»nd
a dispatch; accounts adjuftcd, «and books fettled, in the
II most correfl maaoer. Coflftant attendance will be given.
- They solicit a fiiare of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
it N. B. Th« utmost secrecy observed.
SAMUKL M. FRA'UNCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
rhilad. aujuK 17, 1796. m&wtf
•
ALL PERSONS
INDEBTED to the Estate of Gtsacr Rots, late of Cap*
May, dece.fed, are requested to aiake imiueiiiatr pay
ment to the Subscriber, and thoffwho have any demands
against laid Kfute, will please call on Mm for fettluncut.
JAMES TOUMG, AJn'r,
Swaafon, below SoutKStreet.
J-tiuarv so , JCWt
All Persons having Demands
Against the Estate of the late Thomas Franklin,
dereafed, aie'delirrd to bring in their accounts for
settlement; and those indebted to make immediate
payment, to ISRAEL PLEASANTS, ) P
WALTER FRANKLIN, or $ *
SAMUEL K. FRANKLIN, >
January 14th, J796. eoiw
FOR SALE JIT WILLIAM PRIESTMAN'S
No. 15 south Fifth-ltreet,
Between Market and Cliefnut Street!,
A Quantity of Plain Gold Watches ; Gold eaarael'd &
ornamented with pearls j Silver and metal ditto, by
the firft makers in London and Paris ; a i iine-P>ec«
by Arnold ; plain gold by .Mudge S" Dutton; fevcral
diamond aad diamond Isf pearl locket', rings, ear-rings.
See; about 60 lb. of Scotch thread; double-barrel'd gun 9,
in cafe, by Mauton ; quantity of plated table, tea, and
night plated eandlelcicks, branches, Sec. 46 volumes of
Law-B«oks, iA one lot, meftly reports, f«li», scarce and
valuable books ; books of Prints } —amoni>ft vGhich arc
Martyn on Shells, Statue da Roili, C alraet's I)iil : onnaire
de Bible, Johnson's Poets, 75 vol». Balkerville's Addiioc,
4 vols. Biographia Britannica, Opere de IVlachiavcllr,
I Ruins of Balbec, Blair's Chronology, Plinii Huonca Na
turalis, Montfaucon's Antiquities, State Trials; Evclyn'i
Silva, Poftlewayte's Dictionary, Rittrattii duouiini illuf
j tri Tofcani, Oaevres de Bayle, Caracci.
j Jrmary 31 §
Hibernian Society.
Such of th» Members ot this society as are entitled t«
I Diplomas, are requested to apply for them to
Mr. Hugh Holmes, Vice Crejident;
Mr. David M'Cormict, Treasurer /
Mr. Robert H. Drinker, Lounjillor j
Air. Jojeph Brown ;
I M>". Edward Fox ;
Or to MATHEW CAREY, Sec.
Phihd. Jan. 41, 1797. tawAt
FOR BALii,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
I WELL situated, laying on and between Marsh
I and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
I four l'eparate Patents. For terms oi sale apply to
I Wm. Blackburn,
N®. 64, South Sfcond-ftrcet
I January if,. mw/ftf
Washington Lottery,
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purcliafed or
1 exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chefnut-
I Creet, where a correit Numerical Book is kept for public
1 infpe£ti6n. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale er ex.
j changed for prizes diawß in the Washington Lottsry, of
I which the 54th and 55th days returns are received.
0" The Business of a Broker carried on as usual.
January n.- ttstf
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 3x3, HIGH-SIREtT,
' j GEORGE DAVIS announces to hit profeflionai friends*
I and the Gentlemen of ihc Law, generally, through the
I Union, that his laie importation of BOOKS is now arrange
j ed, and icady for Sale, from a (ingle volume to an cmire h
-1 brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
I prices, which for fcveral years part have in so diftinguiihed a
I manner recommended them to notice.
j Piinted Catalogues combining the m#ft exteafive collec.
| tion cf the latest Englith and liilh Lditions ever in:y wud
I into this country, arc pnbi&ihed, and will be delivered giatia
I oa application.
I Orders addrefTed to G. D. in writing from any distanCe
v l (hall be punctually attended to.
I A number of TRUNKS for Sale.
I K ALSO, TO BE LET,
- J A convenient LOFT, near Ma.ket Street Wharf,
ov - 8 tuftfjip
» FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, North Second Street.
I Imperial J r Hyson Skin.
I Hyson, C Frtlh Teas. < Souchong,
Young Hyson, J CBohea
I Dec. 9. jtaw.^m.
For Sale,
56 J By the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREF.T,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
t I Imported by the Eagle.
WILUNGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30
d
Le Breton,
jf SURGEON-DENTIST,
r Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
' King and Royal Family of France, member of the
te College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aflortment of every thing neceflary
to be used forthe
n Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
it Patent Miaoral Teeth, and Human & ivory Teeth ;
- Dentrifice in powder ; Opiate i excellent Elixir for
II sweetening the mouth and preserving the teeth he
also furuifties Brushes and foft Sponges.
:r H« lives in Chefout-ftreet, No. 135, abav*
I Fourth-street.
November 16. tts
Twenty Guineas Reward.
I RANAWAY from the fubferiber «n the 13d O&obor,
. I a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; ai year»
- ) > old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mixed green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
'*• I a flriped vest j a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much w«rn. It is probable he may clsange
I his name and dress. He has been accustomed te driving
(I a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
J paid for fccuring him so that the fubferiber may get ham
"■ I again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
n. j Robins Chamberlaine.
r j Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 ' Imaawtf
PRINTERS
Who have infeited Advsrtifements at the request of the
I Editor of tbis Paper, ire desired to forward their accounts
J as nary 30 $$l
' JSALES AT THE CUSTOM-HOUSE.
ON TUESDAY NEXT.
' I 'HE 7th instant, it ia o'clock at noon, will be fold
JL at the Custom-House, for payment of dutic-6, 40
Pipes of genuine
London Particular Madeira Wine,
By WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marshal.
Marfljal's Office, Philadelphia, February 4th, 1797-
New Theatre.
Br Particular Des/re,
ON MONDAY EVENING, February 6,
Will be prefentecf, the HiftoricaJ Playof
Columbus:
» 7
Or, A WORLD DISCOVERED.
WITH NEW SCENERY, MACHINERY, DRESSES
AND DECORATIONS.
The music composed by Mr. Reinagle.
The proci«ons and Pageant by Mr. Byrne.
In this Play the manners and daftoms of Mexico and
Pera characterize the firft discovered nations of America.
Such deviation from Historical truth was deemed neceflary
for dramatic cffeiSt, and has enabled the author to intro
duce the pathetic Tale of CORA and ALONZO, from
•larmontel's Incut.
The PROLOGUE will bespoken by Mr. Wigkill.
SPANISH PARTY*
Columbus, Mr. Cooper
Alonzo, Mr. Moreton
Harry Herbert, Mr. Wigmtil
Dodler Dolores, Mr. Hariuood
BTibon, Mr. Frpnas
Roldan, Mr. Fox
Valverdo, Mr. JJarlej
Mwfcofo, Mr. BliJJett
Captain, Mr. McDonald
til Spaniard, Mr. Darley, jun.
»d Spaniard, Mr. Morgan
, INDIANS.
Oroximbo, Mr. Warren
Snlafco, Mr. VF.Jlrange
Catalpo, Mr. Worrell '
* Cuto, Mr. J. Worrell
Cora, Mrs. Merry
Welti, Mrs. Francis
Priefteflei of the Sun, \
I Mrs. Mechtler, Sic.
Indian Women,—Mrs. Harvey, Mrs. Doctor, Miss Mil
bourne, Mis» Oldfield Miss L'Eftrange, Miss Bates, Miss
Anderfon, and M'elle Sophie.
in aft 1.
A PROCESSION Of INDIANS, and the firft
Landing of Columbus.
In 3.
REPRESENTATION 6F A STORM AND EARTHQUAKE ;
With a Grand E*uption from a Volcano.
In aft 4.
A March of Sacsi jici', and Proceflion to the Execution
Of COK,A.
The whole to conclude with A GRAND PAGEANT.
The scene of the Volcano designed by J. Richards,
Esq. R. A. principal Scene Painter to Covent-Garden
Theatre.
The reft of the Scenery designed by Mr. Milboitrne. |
and the whole executed by him and under his direc- ,
tion.
Mathiaift,. Mr. Lenthall. i
The dresses designed by Mr. Gibbon#.
To which will be added, j
A called • \ (
Barnaby Brittle ;
Or, A WIFE AT HER WIT'S END.
(As often performed at Coverit Garden, with general ,
applause.)
Barnaby Brittle, Mr. Bates 1
Clodpole, Mr. Blifett ■ t
J crfrn y. Mr. Francis t
Sir Peter Pride, Mr. Morgan
Lovemore, Mr. Fox
Jeffery, Mr. Worrell, jun.
Mrs. Brittle, Mrs. Francis
Lady Pride, Mrs. Metcbtler
Damans, Mrs. Harvey
Bo*, One Dollar twenly-five cents. Pit Seven Eigh:hs t
of a Dollar, and Gallery, half a dollar.
0- Tickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's tJook-ftore
No. 50 High-street, and at the Office adjoining the . l
Theatre. J'
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their 1
servants to keep places a quarter before $ o'clock, and a
to order thepi, as soon as the company are feared, to n
withdraw, as they cannot on any account be permit- a
ted to remain.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the "
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
Places for the Boxes to Be taken at.the Office in the
front of the theatre, from 10 till a o'clock, and from
10 till 4 on the days of performance. h
VIVAT R ESPVBLICA! 11
College-Hall. f<
V
Readings and Recitations, h
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
On SATURDAY EVENING, Feb. 4, at 7 o'clock,
Will be continued,
THE EFFECTS OF AMBITION AND GUILT, T
Confidtred, traccd and exemplified in the charailer of
Macbeth.
With a recitation of the whole character, and moral ir
and critical observations on the chara&er, and on the au- tl
thor. n ,
— !rt
jjT On Toefdav, 7th February, a'
The EFFECTS of AMBITION and PTJILT, l J
Exemplified In the character of Satan and the Fallen tr
Angels, with recitations from Milten. a<
— in
Tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfon, jun. at the Library ;
at mr. M'Elwee's looking-glass-store, No. 70, S. Fourthl tr
street; and at Mr. Carey's, Bookseller, Market-flrcet fa
-Half a dollar each. la;
Just Published, th
And to be Sold by T. BRADFORD, No. S South to
Front-street.
A new pra&ical system of
HUMAN REASON. to
Divefied of all metapyhyfical ineomprehenfibility Jf c
and founded on COnceivability alane, as efficient
to all the purposes of human exiftescc, the discovery
of universal truth and universal good.
" Mind makes the man, and want of it the fellow [ 9l
" Mind is all tforth ; the rett is all prunella." '
' By JOHh STEWART, the Traveller.
February 4 ». t PT
« * mt
SALTPETRE.
— del
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for for
sale at No. 25, South Third-ilreet. i ßt
November j. § jj c .
■ o i d Philadelphia, February 4.
40 —-——
COMMUNICATION.
■ Mr. Fenno,
* I have frequently remarked, that when the scrib
blers in the Aurora are at a loss for new iubjefls of al
fafiination, they indulge their murderous habits by at
tempting to deprcciatt. the talents of gentlemen
who now prcfide at the head of the departments of
slate and treasury. It is rather lingular, however, that
in order to effeift their purpose, they lboald-be com
pelled to resort to the unmeaning exprefiion of " suc
cessors.in form," adopted by a mas, whose abilities
were never the objeit of envy—and to whose preten
fions for honelty, 1 belienf no person could be ambi
tious to lucceed.
S If the secretaries of slate and »f the treasury, ably
and faithfully dil'charge the duties ot'«their refpef\iv£
offices, the public surely have no caule of complaint.
Upon what principle, therefore, can Mr. Bpche's cor
nd I reipondent's pretend to fay, that they are not equally
ca - : entitled to an encreafe of compensation with the other
"7 j officers of government? Is it becanfe they are not
ro" i members of feme foreign philosophic.l fociety—yr, ra
jm ther, becauft, they prefer living on the_fcanty stipend
allowed them by their country, lo imitating the base
- examples daily exhibited by pretended patriots? Let
the people determine.
Thursday last the Senators and Reprefentativs in
■Congrefe of the State of Delaware, pursuant to
refolufioni »f the Legiflatare, waited on the
President of the United States, with the follow
ing addreflts.
To GEORGE WASHINGTON,
Prejidtnt of the United States.
Sir,
THE Senate of the State of Delaware cannot
view with infeefibility your contemplated retire
ment from the fiift office of your country to flic
rrpofe of private life.
Upon Cuch an occasion to bfc silent and to with
hold the mod cordial expr«fliou of «ur aifeilion, ■
refpeft and veneration, for your character, vould
1- be as ungrateful to you at it would be di/hoaorablc
s te ourselves.
It it in attempting therefore to do justice to our
ft feelings, and to discharge a patriotice dutyi that
we present this address as a tribute of gratitude,
. and a homage due to your virtues.
More than twenty years have elapsed since you
left the civil gouncils of America, to undertake
n and sustain the more difficult and perilois duties of
the chief military cammarid. The seven years con
, which ensued must have been to youa gloomy
n series of seven year's fufferings, except a»it was re
lieved by temporary vidories, and the plafing hope
that the exertions of your country and the aids of
heaven, would crown yaur labours witi ultimate
success.
At the close of the important contelt w® view
you in the command of a disciplined, sffeftipnate
and admiring army ; and from, the example of other
conquerors, we might have trembled for the fa'e of
our country, in the appiehenfion thaC itsptotccior
would become its tyrant.
j happily for the United States, and honora
bly for yotirfelf, and the chafer of human na-
Lure, the feelings of the conqueror, were loft in
those of the patriot; anil the i f«,uations of ambi
tion were reprefled by the triumph of virtue.
Ihe glorious fpe&acle was presented to the
world, of a popular, powerful and fucccfsful gene
ral, atchieving the emancipation of his country, and
then tefigning his command to an unarmed repub- <
lie, voluntarily retiiing from the honors of office, :
and receiving in return the tribute not oi pr.-wer
i but of public gratitude.
We view you a second time in obedience to the :
unanimous veice of America, rciinquiftiing the en
joyment of your beloved retirement, and accepting
the chief magistracy of yeur country, in erder to 1
add character, credit and energy, to its govern- I
ment. That character, credit and energy, ycu have '
affilted, in forming, and fecuting to our govern- '
ment j' and wc hope they will be preserved, as well i
to perpetuate the memory of your virtues, as the •
happinefv °f your feliow-citizen*. i
We ad-dress you fir, in the name, and on the be- 1
half of the citizens we represent. We know that <
they unite with us in viewing your abilities with i
refpe«, your virtues with veneration, and your '
fervicee with gratitude, and in soliciting ftom hea
ven for you, every bluffing which can increafc your <
happincfs here, and hereafter. j
daniel rogers, i
Speaker of the Senate of the State »/ Delaware, t
Dover, January Z4, 1797. t
T° GEOftQE WASHINGTON, President of the c
United States. r
fir, j
TO enjoy the advantage, resulting from your wife ad- ,
minjftration, and not to cxpr.f, our trat.fication • to IWI
a b 7 fic f ?' ■*> of y-r fii mneff and palriotifm" S 1
not acknowledge them ; to admire your magnanimity and V
,"xi c W ? U thr ° w a over the Republican char-
er, of which we boafl ; in d would wound the fenfibili b
tributeiiq C °" {muCf,ts - . Permit to offer th* only v
tribute m power to g,ve. and the only one worth voZ
32t^ t,fUl acknowledgment, of a free^d
trv W !r° T f " V r\ into th « hands of your coun- v
try that which had been entrusted to you for her
fafcty , and retire to domefric p -aev and tranauir*
lamented that we could Kot t&? WC c
Which ha va since ft one. with such refplen/etcy ,_b»t"n i«
tha approach of a new sera, and wh-nit berW n <r
E,"',sar/- -
fellow- citizens that J°V '<
al m eftabhlhing. .It hasbeen our happiness to
aurces and credit of the Republic, and the profperitVof Vl
her citizens k«p pacc with your adminifrraC. P T b«
In our foreign relations, we perceive rh« i. k
pyeffeas. P " '
ments with one nation, and the nejratity, due fo'o"
SffiSte r' 3 1
P! », w ,uk
■r We hive yielded to your desire of retirement only
~ to give repole to the evening of a life which has been
spent in the pursuit of noble deeds ; and although you
may not much longer personally direfl the councils of
America, yet we trust that a recolleition of your vir
tues and wisdom will forever guide the steps of your
(uccefTors. »
Signed by order of the House of Representatives of
u the state of Delaware.
l{ \ STEPHEN LEWIS, Speaker.
it
•n To the Senator) and RpprefeHtative of the State
of of Delaware.
as Gentlemen,
c _ I receive with great frtisfa<ftion the Addreffe* of
e8 the Senate and the House of Representatives of
ti the State of Delaware, which you have now pre
>i- fented to me, on the occasion of my contemplated
retirement fro* the Presidency of the United
ll States.—
t These evidences of their effe&ion, and teffimo
r_ niesthat my public services have been ufefal to my
ly country, will ever be dear to me.
rr If yielding to the calls of my fellow-citisens, I
it* have renounced the ease and* enjoyment of private
life, to encounter the dangers and difficulties of the
firft and moll arduous employments, it was becaufe
et the facrifices> on my part, were by them deemed
interefling to their fafety and welfare.—Animated
by such motives, and supported by the general spi
n rit and partiotifm of my countrymen, when the ob
-0 je£U of my public agency were attained, nought
(' remained to me but to seek again the private station
r . which their partiality- and confidence required me
for a relinquiih.—ln thiVchofen retirement,
the approving voice of my country will ever be a
fubjevt of grateful reeolleftion ; while 1 behold its
increasing prosperity, under the influence of the
fame public spirit, energy, justice and moderation,
t in which its independence, charatlcr and credit 1
have been founded.—That such may be the fruit '
e of our labours, and such the happy progrefs>of our '
Republic, is, and will be, the objet* of my 1
. ardent wifties.— <
, r These feutiment*, gentlemen, with my grateful 1
j acknowledgments to the Senate and the House of 1
: Rcprefenunves of the State of Delaware, 1 pray <
you to communicate to them in such manner as you 1
r (hall deem proper. ]
United States 2d. of Feb. 1797.
Go. WASHINGTGN. !
, ' <
From the Farmer's Wkikly Museum. '•
" No man al/g having drunk old wine, Jlraightway !
defireth new : Fir he faith, the old is better." 1
HE might have said so at Jerusalem, in the year 1
: of our Lord, four or five : But in the enlightened i
7 eighteenth century, the depraved palate of the 1
: moderns often piefers new wint to old. This ab 1
surd preference was deemed an impossible thing, in 1
■ days of yore, by an excellent judge, whose tiniver- 1
■ fa "y negative proportion, i the text affords an in- ]
■ d libit able proof, that his age was not the age of ]
r innovation. 1
How unfortunate for the benighted Jews, that (
Thomas Paine was then unborn, and did not print '
Common Sense at the foot of the Mount of Olives. '
How many inftru&ed readers would have leaved to '
pieces their old win# calks, and, wiih an air of in- a
dependence, swallowed huge draughts from the a
new. a j
But though the men of Palestine were denied the r
privilege of examining wine, or any thing else, hy 1
the lump of Paine, we enjoy its full blaze, and may c
discern the imperfections of many olef thisgj, fueh
as old principles, old government, or an old Bible
Nothing can flake the prefem third for novelty,
rbis is the age of experiment ; we desert the old
and fafe way, and turn aside eagerly into untried
paths.
1 imported, in the last vessels from Europe, many
new books, and a brilliant (hew they made, ranged
on my rtudy fhelf, by the fide of my dog's eared 5
Shakdpeare and worm eaten St. Bernard. I then
examined critically, the ttyle and the sentiment of [
modern literature. I quickly found that the falhion
able fine writing of the day, was like new wine,
crude and mawkito. No tnan who has read Alter- °
bury and South, Addifon and Goldsmith, will pre- j
£er this verbose trash, said I, fcornfclly glancing at d
liX m3 J iz '" e > te the sense and ini- ■
mitable expreflian of my old authors. C
A few evenings ago, I heard a pert eollegian C
declaiming the study of Grecian and Roman P
pages. I then began to indulge one of my reveries. £
Here 1. a babe, whose (hallow brain cannot Lear
l . ern "o ' C c, and chokes with the °
grape-ttone of Anacreon. I (ball fee him in a mo
ment running after some of the /mall wines of the
country to a French press. I „ as rj ght : be be- ,
gan to -deafen me with the praise, 0 f Mirabeau'g
ipeeches, Gregoire's report, and th« Abbe Coo- f
dorret, and vijhed that Virgil had been a poet of
anguedoc. May American Students, I ejaculated "
when they neglect the elaflics, and prefer a French
spangle to ancient gold, be doomed to read nothing
but a butcher's bill of Legendre, or SanterreW
ventory of his brew-hoefe. ° !
This sermon is not dedicated to Frenchmen. C
unSef "Th 7 Prcacher ca!l fa ywill « help their
unbelief. They are so drunken with new wine
i a n V VT d ' fcCrn "P»> ccs > »bbey lands, an- k
ent landmarks, nor day. of ,he week. They di
D?efen7 tl° j'''"* 4 ' that f h° uld t,u(h
P efent to them her old gjafs, they would turn w
l !t0 y° B » fßber Americans,! addrefsmv w
exhortation. You, whether called M tor Js "d ol
federal,ft,, or old fools, will never hazard rash in T
nor march in the patriots forlorn hope m
relLTen d ' fl ' ke " 0t cxcclle form of fe
religion or government, because it is three hundred te
years of age . Satisfied with things a, they /re £
you do not run tumultuouny through your ft reel«' w
b m r K f T ! Wd ° y° U ' li^Ke 7 ra(h kS I
toX\ 8 k ~ h e J CO " nc ' 1 of ancient, to listen ve
Distrust Tf F ° jVaS ° f jUVC " i!e ir > dil ""etion. of
fore wh!; c ° u,ltcnance ' despise the man, there-
Be iJou»7h P r f l, «' 08SOr P° litieal «pedie, tS . to
your JXrs fl 1 ' 1f j- to be A ,f >»' of qt
• . ra. Burn the sedition and impiety of an
Bible' "NoT,7 th » C ICaVCS ° f the an "^ atcd th
• iNo man of taftc or piety hiving read it, pc
ll defir « h Jnfidclfty, for he frith, the
en gospel it better.
>u
of Thk Lay preacher.
jr £*■ FRANKLIN.
1 he economicka and the proverbs of this writer
,f have been over-rated. His system of frugality i.
fuchas every prudent old gentleman draw, up for
h.i ufc of yo.ng Hopeful, when bound to sea, or
to College. Hu adages referable Sancho's firing,
h U " ®T , theC a ° ass > run a »d frtcb «
halter. _ They who l.ke to behold lightening lam
beat on iron, or to warm themselves at a dull Rove '
,f or to v,ew acock gasp i„ mephitick vapour will
,f read Franklin. For morals, let them conlult Epic
•j letUß » or Palc T- [ Farmer't Weekly Mufium.]
d From 'he Farmer Weekly Museum
PATRIOTISM.
. I never wrote a Didionary,; I believe that I
f have no talents for fueh a work, but, were I to
print two folios as ample as Johnson's I could not
[ define the meaning of that impofirg word Patriot
- , Sfiiie Jenyns, one of the few and thinking
; philofophei's of the present time, has remarked a
.. cutely that patriotism is not among the lift of New
| 1 ettament virtues. No wonder that it is hot an
1 article in the Christian catalogue. That amiable
perlonage who went about doing good, felt no par
tulity for thu, or that fide of the brook Cedron.
1 he world wfs his country, and benevolence to all.
not attachment to a placc was what he enjoined,
."atnotifm is ,he mark.of felfifhnefs, and patriotism
il a found tp my ear*; as grating as Tristram to
rathei Shandy «.■ It is unison to nincompoop and
every name vituperative under heaven." 1 have
looked narrowly into the characters and exploits of
fame of the mod noted patriots of ancient and mo
dern times. History and Chefterfield assure us that
the great Brutus was a thief in Macedonia, Attt
cus was a time server, and if the reader will be at
the trouble of confultlng Dalrymple's memoirs he
will find that Lord RufT.l and Alfiernuo,, \Sv j ucy
were hired by France to dothediity work of cor
ruption. Yet these men were called lovers of their
country, and were doubtiefs toasted by many a po
pular club in Rome and London. The year 177 C
produced many Bruti? One has cheated his audi
tors, one has defrauded the public ; theie have been
renegado patriots, and patriots who have capered
at a whipping poll, and dangled from a gibbet.
One may at any time, after an Irifti assize, pick
and choose full grown and athletic-ones from the
goals of Dublin. A patriot is aifurprizing a cha
rafler as the admirable Crichton. He can' do ma
ny and 11 range things. Out of leve to his country
hecan make free with other people's sheep and
goslings ; love to his country loosens the rudder
bands of his (having mill, and crowds its fails after
the merchantmen of England } love of his country
makes his tongue clamorous against the administra
tion J and holds fact his purse firings from excise*
Patriotism is squally alert in whipping Oaves on the
Potouiack, or catching them at Garee. It is •
Proteus. It fometimesftarts up in the shape of a
Governor of Massachusetts, and sometimes dwin
dles, like Milron's Satan, into a " familiar toad,'*
and is called Thomas Lfead aohoufand
ions, whom I meant to educate liberally, I fcould
advise them, when reading the clafficks, to consider
all ancient stories of patriotism, as mere rant,; and
if I wished to mo»e their loudest laughter, I should
not refer them to Plautus nor Terence, but to e
very passage in Greek or Roman authors, where that
cheating word Patriotism occurred.
CONGRESS or thk UNITED STATES.
HOUSE or REPRESENTATIVES.
Friday, January lj.
The speaker laid before the house a lettei and re- , ,
port from the attorney general on the petition of
Fanny Forfyth, widow of Rribert Forfyth, refp<*c«
ting a lot of land in F-ederickfburg, which had
beenjeonveyed to Gen. Greene, as a counter securi
ty. He recommended a disagreement to the prayer
of the petition. The report was ordered to he
committed to a committee of the whole on Mon
day next.
Mr. Dwight Foster, from the committee of
claims, made reports on the petition* of T'
Currey and Henry Hile. The firft was against th*
petitioner, and conr urred in by the house, the last,
which related to a sum of upwards of nine thou
sand dollars which had been misplaced in the ac
count of the late John Banks and Charles Pettit
with the United States, was referred to a commit
tee of the whole or Monday.
• Mr. Kittera presented a petition from the Illinoio
and Wabafh land aimpanies praying for certain im
munities, which was read, and ordered to be prin
ted, and committed to a fcleit committee of three
members.
Mr. Kittera moved to have the unfinifhed busi
ness pofiponed, in order to take up the report on
the petition of William Alexander, but his moti
on was negatived.
On the motion being about to be put for going in
to a committee of the whole, on the fobjeft of
further revenue.
Mr. Coit' wished the house to take up the reso
lution he had yesterday laid the table.—The
difference, he said, betwixt this resolution ard the
one reported by the committee of ways and means,
was, that this called for the particulars as thspla",
whilst that called for an agreement to the principle
of diieA taxation without any reference to a plan.
This difficulty, he said, occurred. Many gentle
men objeded to a direst tax, because they oould not
fee their way thro' any plan of carrying it intnef
fedt. He himfelf did not feci this difficulty. He
should vote far the resolution ; because, if a plan
was brought forward which he did not approve, he
should vote against if. It appeared to him, howe
ver, that the house vyould have a more diftintl view
of the fuftjedf, if tpey bad a plan before them.
Mr. Swan wick fairt theobjedHen which he had
to the motion was, that it would embarrass the
queflion whether or not the house wculd agree t»
any system of diredl taxation ? Some gentlemen
thought itJmpoffible to devise a plan for this pur
pose j if could not be expedted therefore that theV committee of ways and means ihnld produce such K,
an Bne as would be wholly unobjefl .onable In m
deed, when he heard it asserted to be impaffibte, he or
trembled for the existence ** our Roremrnant ; for w
it could not exist without revenue, and he could la
not fee ho* that revenue could be ra.fed but by a d,
t*nd rax. The propriety of laying additional bur- h<
then, on commerce h*d been suggested, but, (as ar
he had already stated) this tfocld net probably in- te
crease the revenue, ai it would moll probably pro- at
mote a fpuit of smuggling. Let u. go into a com- w
mittee of the whole an the fabjeft, said Mr. S. p
and let gentlemen bring forward their different
plans, and then the committee will be able to 1)
tetmine which will be molt likely to be effectual, u
and attended with the least inconvenience. There n*
was b»tf one feniiment as to the Heredity of provifi
on being made ; and he was of opinion, if it was »
once determined to have a direct tax, such a plan
might be produced as would prove acceptable, when c
gentUmen (hould be convinced that fame plan of P
direct taxation mull be adopted. 1
The speaker said the only motion in order would r
' be, that the committee of the whole on the fubjeft F
of'finance be discharged, in order to refer the pre- <
sent resolution to the committee of ways and
means to inltruft them tp report a plan j or, to 3
commit the resolution o the committee of the
whole on the fubjeft of finance. r
Mr. Harper asked whether it would not be in 1
order, when the house (hould be in a committee of '
the whole, to move the present re(olution by way '
of amendment to ihat reported ? 1
The speaker said the chairman of the commit- 1
tee of the whole would determine thai que:Hun.
Mr Coit moved that the commi tee of the whole '
on the fubjeft of finance, might be discharged from
the further cenfideratioß of the fubjeft, for the
purpose of referring his resolution.
Mr. Williams hoped the committee would be
discharged. He wished to have tie plan in quef
tien before them, because if it was not necessary to ;
" prrfo*. it might be necessary at 1
« some future day. As to what had been said that
government could not be Supported without aland 1
i tax, he believed other means might be hit up'>n to '
raise the money required without a land tax. Not '
that he would commit himfelf so far as to fay be
might not eventually vote for a land tax. But he '
believed if a small additional duty were to be laid
upon fait and rum, and, fome other artieles, there 1
would be no difficulty in he business.
The speaker reminded Mr. Williams of the
queflion.
Mr Williams said he was Hating hit reasons why i
the fyftem v of direst taxation (hould not now be j
determined upon, because he thought there were j
certain ariicl«s upon which a heavier duty be j
laid ; though he wilhed, at the fame time, to have
the plan of a direst tax broajjht into view, to aft
upon when necessity should require it.
Mr Craik was in favor of the committee of the
whole being discharged, in order that the commit
tee ef Ways and Meant might be inttrufted to report
a plan. He said he was in favor of this proposition,
net so much from any objection.be had to vote for
the resolution as reported, l>ut because if they were
to have i phrv reported, they should lie more likely
to bring the fubjeft to an early conclusion. He
did not think, with some other gentltmen, that by
■voting for that refolution,khe (hould be bound to
*ote foi any plan which might be reported. He
scad no Ifars of this fort; he believed hinsfelf al
ways at liberty to vote as he pleafcd, and to change
hi 3 opinion on any fubjeft when be saw proper.
But, as some gentlemen had expreflcd their objec
tions on this ground, be thought it would be well
to refer this resolution.
» Mr. C. fa d, he believed when they confidercd
their real Situation ; that they were not called up
on to determine whether additional revenue (hould
be raised or not, but that revenue mtift by some
means be railed, he trusted that gentlemen would
turn their minds in earned to the fubjeft. 'He be
lieved tffis to be the important bufirefs .ps the ses
sion j and when he looked at the report of the
secretary of the treafuty, he could not hefitatc a
moment in concluding that there was a necessity
foi acting with energy. Seeing, therefore, that
they had no alternative, it becamc their business to
have the fubjeft thoroughly diCcnffed, and to take
a view of both sources, viz. direst and indirect
taxsltort, m upon what fyiicm
they would aft. A resolution, he said, had been
referred to the committee of Ways and Means,
some days ago, calling upon them to report what
' further revenue could be raised by indirect taxes.
It would be well if that committee would brirg in
to view all the ftthjefts upon which indirect taxes
might be raised or increased, in order to enable
them to determine betwixt the two fyflems. It
might perhaps be advifahle to have recpurfe both to
direst and indirect taxation ; for though indirect
means mi«ht supply our prefe/it wants, after the
year 1800 they would certainly fall and he
was not for putting off till to morrow what might
fee done to day. It wa» nectffaty the attention of
the people (houlil be driven to the fubjeft, and that
government fhouM not he drawn to anticipations
?nd loans, and to give extravagant prices for our
own money.
He believed gentlemen oppefed to direst taxa
tion, were not so much so from principles as from
an idea that it was impoifiblc to adopt a system
which would fall equally upon all parts of the linibn-.
It was to be wished, therefore, that -the plans could
be *en and agreed upon,, since some gentlemen
were apprehensive that by giving their aflent to th c
abftraft proposition, they should pledge thcmfelve,
to support a plan, however objeftienable, when i,
{hould be reported. He hoped, therefore, the re
solution would be referred, and a plan reported.
Mr. W. Smith said it was to be regretted that
the gentleman from Cennpefticut had broOght for
ward this proposition, as it caused them to debate
about form, rather th,an fuhltance. The propßpo
Ction of the committee of Ways and Means, went
to fay direst taxes (hould be laid ; this directed the
committee to report a bill. He thought it befl to
decide in the firft instance, whether direst taxes
, were neccfiary or not. By bringing the fubjeft
before the committee of th* whole, gentlemen would
have an opportunity of propofinpr their fubftitu'es the
in place ot the plan propped ; and, by contrasting
une with the other, thry should be able to judge
which would prove the belt mode. But gentlemen I
fay no, we will.have the plan in a bill, and if wejj u t
do not like it, we will rrjeft it. He thought the H e
heft way would be to go fairly into the business, dif
and determine whether they would adopt any fyf- i
tem of direst taxation, which could be planned,
and so far pledge (hemfelves, as to deteimine-they j €
will agree to any practicable plan which may be j u
produced. _ j (he
Mr. S. said there could only be two objections to i n j
fyltein of direst taxation ; either that by the confti- the
tution there is not a fufltt ient power in the govern- "" e(
ment to raise such a tax, or that it is inexpedient.
If gentlemeii thought there was not fufficient power j
in the constitution to raise such a tax, it (hould be > w ]
so determined ; or, if it were tiioue;ht that mopey i,u
could be raised in a more convenient mode, it was j pl<
proper to discuss the principle, and come to a de
termination on the fubje£t. 1 hfs» he said was the j.
rational way of proceeding ; for if once the princi-
pie was determined upon tnat a direst tax was ne-
( efTary, a number of objections would be foftened pc
down by the necessity which was seen to exist for ti<
adopting a plan of this kind. (
It had been observed, that a resolution had been w
referred to the committtc of ways and means, in-
ftrufting them to report on the fubjeft of indirect
taxation. He did not object to the reference at
thai time but he had yelterday-declared that tjiat re
repeatedly attempted in vain to hit d;
upon fubjefts of indirect taxation for further reveri- le
ue, and that they had therefore recommended a fyf-
tem of direst taxation.
He hoped thc resolution of thc gentleman from
Connecticut would not be adopted, and that they j,.
(hould go into a committee cf the whole on the p;
bufm.efs. tt
Mr. Nicholas said the question was now wheth ft
er they should determine upon something, or put
it i>ff till another time. We want revenue, said
Mr. N. and we mult have it ; and was it not bet-
ter he asked, to determine Upon what principle they 0
(hould aft, than to call upon the committee of w
ways and means to report a plan. It was well r<
known, he said, nothing but necessity could have Cl
obliged any member to have proposed direst taxes. r '
Unless they firft determined upon the principle,
they (hould never be able to proceed ; because,
however perfect the system might be, objections c
would doubtless be made to it, and these would be
made a pretence for doing away the bill altogether. | c
IHs would have them now go into an investigation P
of the fubjeft ; when the gentleman from New- P
IYork, will of conrfr propose his tax on fait and
rum, and other gentlemen will bring forward their
f substitutes, so that thry should be able to fee, wheth- p
j er any other effeft'UaKmode could be determined
upon in preference to, the one proposed ; if not,
, they would be obliged 10 unite in agreeing to a di
rest tax. But, if they were called upon to decide e
t upon a detailed plan, before they had decided up
on the principle, it would never pass. g
' Mi. Buck said he hoped the committee would <
not be discharged. It seemed to be agreed ton all
hands, when the constitution was adopted, that I
e divert taxes (hould not be iyWjiftto, exceptj in e»-
fes of urguncy and necessity. It seems now to be f
o agreed, that additional revenue was eflemhl. The ;
e fubjeft had been before the committee of ways and
l_ means, whose peculiar province it was to attend to c
all money tranfaftions, and they had reported that t
r ihe peri-id was arrived, wheu it was become necef
,[ faty t» resort to direst taxation. Why, then (hould '
j] [ they (hriuk from the enquiry ? Since tht'y had '
said this was the lime, onlefs it were to be prefum
■d ed they had erred, or members were ready to pro
-3 pcfe some other whi h they think preferable I
j to direst taxes, they ought to pursue the report
le made and take up the business.—Taxes, he said, 1
U were always difagreeab'le, and it was witij icluftance
e the people cbnfeiited to pay any, cxeept they law | J
f. advantage ariling from the payment of thetti great i
lf er than to counterbalance the evil of paying. He i
a knew also that a direst tax would be received !
r with reluctance. He himfelr would never vote for
at it, but upon the principle of necessity. He widi-!
o e4, therefore the fubjeft to be difcufled, because if
ce there ws» any other better wa> of raising the mon- !
ey required, he should vole for it ; but if not, and
m there was an absolute revenue, then
, n necessity would force him to vote for a direst tax.
9j The reason affitmed by the gentleman from New-
York (Mr. Williams) for wishing committee
5 _ to be discharged, v:z. because he thought indirect
n taxes might be found to answer the purpose, indu
cs bed him to wi(h the enquiry to be thoroughly gone
j e into, and that they (hould not amuse themselves
lt by referring the report back to :he committee of
[o ways and means, until they had decided that the
time was arrived for laying a ?treft tax.
Ie Mr. Galiatin said, that altho', in appearance the
le difference between the proposition of the genthman
from -Connecticut (Mr. Coit) and that reported
by the committee so ways and means, waa Only in
at form and not in substance, yet he saw great d»o.
ns er in adopting this proposition. This dang, r
ur would arise, provided there should be a majority in
that House determined to vote against a system of
a _ direst taxation at all events. If there were such a
m majority, he said it would be well to know <it as
m soon as possible, that they might either determine
n upon some other plan of railing revenue, or drter-
U mine to retrench the present expences of govern
,n rneht.
Many gentlemen might vote for the proposition
e c of the gentleman from Connecticut, who would
; 9 eventually be against a system of direst raxes ;
whereas he wifiied at present to know whether there
was a majoritv in favour oraginft that system . if
the majority was against it, it would be well' to
at have it rejected at once.
r - Mr G. said he did not think any gentleman wonld
te be pledged by voting for the report of the committee
o of ways and means, to support any bill which might
nt might be brought in in consequence of it, if eontrarv
,e to h,s ldeas ri E ht - To vote for the resolution, was
to no more tftan to fay, they were willing to adopt the
* system, provided it could be fatisfaftorily carried into
™ effect, He hoped, therefore, there would be no more
« objedtious on that ground. He also hoped those who
Id intended to vote against diredl taxes, would vote against
the proposition of the irentleraan from -Connc.-lic'tt, "SP
and go into a committee of the when, if they
have a majority with them, they will-vote out the pro
position altogether. s
He would not then, he said, fay any thing on th* -j
fubjeil of direst taxation, as it would not be in order •
He hoped the committee of the»whole would not be "
discharged. " a
Mr. Craik said the gentleman from South-Carolina °» 1
(Mr. W. Smith) railed this a question of principle, 1
He agreed it was so ; but he thought the measure pro- Mo
posed by the gentleman from Connecticut, would pro- pl ar
duce the efFed! si much wiflied for. He believed he
Ihould be fpund to go as far as any gentleman in adopt
ing efficient nKtfuies for raising revenue , but he
thought.the mod; jf proceeding (Chalked out by the me j
refalution now proposed the best. He did not ronfi
der it as improptr to to d>re& taxes,
: whilst there were any sources of indirect tixation ex-|
1 iftiag There might be fubjeiSs of indiredl taxation |l w 1
! which it would be improper at present to resort to; one
but his objeflion 10 deciding upon the prtnei- the t
1 pie was this, that many members had greater objee- the
1 tions to the bufincfson account of the difficulty which
they supposed would attend the carrying of it into ef- j
feiSl, tlran to the principle itfelf. And it in vain
to tell gentlemen they might vote againfl the bill, if ?
they did no' like it, because they knew it was in the
potVer of a majority to carry the bill, however objec- •
tionalile, into effect. I
Th- question for discharging the committee of tne ;
whole was put and negatived.
Mr. Harper said he was not moredifpofed than other '
members of that House, to throw any obstacles in the I
way of providing revenue ; nor of unneceflarily post
poning a bulinefs with a view «f defeating it by indi- I '
re<Jl methods. But he believed tisei e was always more
danger to be apprehended from hasty, than from flow !
legislation. Large bodies like theirs, he said, fuffered I ,
more from precipitation than from delay. If this ob- j
Tervation was true, as it refpedled ordinary legislative I j
bulinefs, it was much more so as it refpe&ed finance,
and new objects of finance—meafures which were to I
have an extensive operation on the prosperity ar.d hap- I 1
pinefs of the country. He was one of those who I '
thought that a certain portion of time devoted to this I
would have been well spent ; as the house, I 1
however, had been of the fame sentiment, but had 1 t
determined te come to a decision upon the abitrail I (
principle, he should do, what gentlemen had been cal- I
led upon several times to do, viz. submit to the view I
of the honfe, a 431'opofitiou by which all the revenue I
which government Hands in need of, without having j
recourfeto the tax on land and llaves, proposed by the I
committee of ways and means, might with ease be I
raised.
Mr. H. then proposed the following resolution to I
the houle— I 'j
" Resolved that the duty now paid on fait be in- 1 0
creased cents per bushel,
" That the duty on that class of wares and m#r-| ca
chandize imported from foreign countries, which now I
pays 10 per cent, ad valorem be augmented to
percent. I
K That the duty on such merchandize as pays 12$ I
per cent, be augmented to per cent. I
" That the duty 011 such merchandize as pays 15 I
per rent, be augmented to per cent. I P'
" That the duty on Madeira wine be» augmented I
per cent , on the present duty. I ■
" That the duty on Sherry, Lifcon andtertain ud
enumerated wines be augmented per cent', on I
tke present duty. i I a'
" That the duty on foreign spirits not diftil'ed fron. I
grain, be augmented per cent, on the present I ■
duty.
1 " That the duty on Bohea tea, be augmented
per cent, on the piefent duty.
a _ " Thai the duty on brown sugar be augmented
per pound.
" Thiit thefum of be raised by a duty on |
Ramps. I
' " That the sum of be rzifedby a tax on win I J
1 dows, by apportionment according to conftituliona! I
t rules amongst the different states."
Mr. Gallatin enquired whether there was not a refo I n
I lution referred to the committee of ways and means t<> I a
. the fame effecfl by a gentleman from New-Je.fey (Mr. I
Henderfon.)
Mr. W. Smith read that refol«li«n.
Mr. Venahle fuegefled the propriety of referring | "
s this resolution to the committre of ways and means. I v
t Mr. VV. Smith Wished rather that the resolution j n
should be committed to the committee of the whole ? I '
* the committee of ways and means, hp' said, had al-1 v
ready determined that fuflicient revenue conld not be 1
v I raised from indiref) sources. He wished the sense oN
| the committre of the whole to be taken on the.f*bje<S. j
e 1 The refoiution was referred to thecommictee of the |
d j whole.
r j The House then resolved itfelf into a comrrittee (
- of the whole, on the fubjeft, Mr. Dent in the chair, c
if when f (
; Mr. Cnoper Oiid the business before the commit" f
J tee was of so impjitawt a nature, as to call npon 0
every gentleman to declare his sentiments freely on !
'■ the fttbjeft, diredl taxes, he laid, had always been
confidend as only to be juftified in times »f necefli- f
:e f y, This was hir opinion. This being the con- v
fttuftion, it became a qneftion whether we were 1 <.
now in tbat situation, whether we can ftipport the
e expenees of *overnment ; whether we can pay the -
:s interest and principal »f our debt ; whether we can
meet the ; whether we can keep
e up our foreign intercourse ; whether we ean in
short, support the honor and chara&er of the Uni- '
e ted States, without having reaoufe, to this method ,
n »f taxation. If we could do this, h« said, then j
d this mode should be left unexplored till the worst j '
B of times. ! 1
: Mr. C said he had no expeflation that a dirett
j tax on land would meet with the general approba-
J tion ef the citiz;ns of the United States. It did •
a I not meet with his; but, perhaps interest, he said, j
j mighl influence him, since it would bring the whole ]
los his property tinder a tax. He (Tumid, however, (
vote for the resolution. He should do 'so because 1
he thought eur commerce already fufficiently shack- '
led, ard because our citizens had had no experience I
in window taxes and (tamp duties, and therefore
would not relilh tli^m; and more efpeeially be>-
cause in times like the present, when all Europe
' was at war, it was more difficult to support our
jj- neutrality and honor aa a nation, than in times of
peace.
j This being the cafe, Mr. C. said, he was desirous
Id to do all in his potfer to secure an ample and fub
ec ftantial revenue, in order to enable us to meet our
ht engagements with punctuality ; because it was with
r y governments as with families, when want approach
ed, they were apt to senfure each other as a cause
(o of the evil. This had always been the cafe. The
ire only remedy, he said, was to make provision before
ho band ; to keep oil in onr lamp, in order to fe« our
all way en every iide.
IJHILAr)FJ.PHIA,l J HILAr)FJ.PHIA,
SATURDAY\VENIN<->, FEBRUARY 4, 1797.
This Morning died Mr. Andrew Brown,
printer and proprietor of the Philadelphia Gazette,
of an inflammation in the the consequence
ot the foul air an.l fnioke inhaled at the late tire.
The publication of the paper is fufyended t'tt
Monday next, when it will be resumed on the usual
plan.
In the Afternoon of Sunday next, a discourse will he
delivered in St. Paul's Church, referring to the late
melaneh«jy events by fire at Mr. Andrew Brown s.
We learn from Delaware, that the resolution
which parte 1 in the Senate of that state, t wiih hut
one difTenting voice, with refpetft to a diffolation nf
the government, was aim >ft unanimoujly negatived by
the House of Rrprefentatives.
It is agreed by a number of Stockholders, to lup
part the following ticket for Dirrctois of the
Bank of Pennsylvania, al the Ele&iun on Mon-
Jay next :—
1. Samuel Howell,
2. John C. -Stocker,
3. Robert Ralfton,
4. Joseph P. NnrrrS,
5. Philip Nic klin,
6. William Moitgomary,
7. James Vanuxem,
8. Godfrey Haga, <1
9. George Plumfted,
10. William Sanfom,
11. Matthew Lawler, ►
12. Thomas Norton,
13. '1 homas L. Moore,
14. George Pennock,
15. John Br«wn,
16. Jehu Hollingfworth,
17. Edward Pennington,
18. J cob Baker,
19 James Strawbridge.
\ ____ '
GAZETTE or Trnt UNITED STATES
MARINE I.IST.
The Columbia, Maiou. failed from the Texel Nov.
9th —Left :here the ftip Three Friends, Capt. Sperry,
of New-York, and brig Peggy, Hardy, of Philadel
phia, both ready to fail, and four or five other Ameri
can vessels, name not recollected.
January 16, spoke' ll"Op Prosperity, David, three
days from Demarara, bnund to New-London
16th, spoke the fthooner Rebecca, of Sand
wich, Allen Nye, three days out from Charlcfton.
The Columbia was boarded by several Britilh cruiz
ers and politely treated- In the Columbia came nine
paflengers.
New-York, Feb, 3.
By the arrival from St. Thomas' yefttrday we hear
of a report then circulating, that an Atnericat< KalU
( Indiaman hid been carried into' St. Martins by a French
privateer, but that !he had been cut out of that port by
a British lugger, and carried into Tortola.
' < -v *
t I——W—»■ I
By Yefterday-s Ma.l.
NEW-YORK. February 3.
a By letters received by an arrival on Ivuurday, in 23
days from Port-3H Prince, we learn (fays the Gazette
FranciiTc of vefkrday) that the English government
I has determined to let out tho 1 * habitation* of Cull-da-
S»e, the proprietors of which are abi'ent, in the fame
manner that it did those of L'Acahaye, which were
0 afterwards so productive to individuals.
On Saturday evening, as two of the men h- longing
*0 the (hip Hope, were endeavoring to get on board,
they mistook their way through the darkness -of the
night, and fell Into the dock. Immediate afliftanae
was given ; and thougn it was little more than five mi
nutes before they were t.ilcen out of the water, all the
; means ufeH for their recovery proved ineffectual. They
j were found locked in earh other's arms.
if sale, ~
J The schooner Orion,
ie SHE is between eighteen months and two
10 Ti 1 ifii-iHMh ' years old ; her frame is of the best of W»
Oak; (he is a faithful-built veflcl—handfomely finifhed off
c —and well found in every par'icular ;ii ready 10 receive a
r * cargo and can be put to Sea wiihou' any ex pence on her Hull,
fails, or rigring. She stows 600 barrels, has a handsome
cabin and Her age, and-a halt deck which will flow seventy
" five or eighty barrels. She is a fact failing teflel—has been
n newly caulked, graved and painted, and put » thorough good
n repair in every refpes ; her inventory mav be seen by apply
ing to the cr.j tain on board said fchoo«er, laying at Mr. JoSn
n Wilcocks's wharf, between Chefnut and WalnutStreer, where
1- she at any time may be thoroughly examined by ihofe who
j. wilh to purchase.
j The terras of sale may be known by applying to Samuel
Smith, ship No. 86, South Front Street.
c Feb. 4. * dtf.
Saturday, Feb. 4, 1797.
The Pennsylvania Land Holders,
Whose titles to lands withiH theCoHne<fticiit claim lit
the counties of luzerne, Northampton and Northura
berland, commenced before the decree of Trenton in
178 a, are reqHefted to meet on Monday evening next
n at 6 o'clock, at Mr. M'Shane's, the Eagle and Harp
ft | Tavern, North Third-fti eet, on important bufinei's
| now before the I "-eiflature.
ft Pennlylvania Population Company.
a- XTOTICE is hereby given, to such Share-holders as
-LN as have not paid their assessments on theirlhares—to
j pay the fame immediately to the Secretary of the Compa
• ny, at the Company's OiTicc, No. 53 north Fou.-th ttreet,
le Philadelphia. 1 hey are further informed, that in default
r, of paying the fame within thirty days from the 4th of Fe
fe bruary, isflant, the several forfeitures will b« ftricftly ex
. _ afled, in conformity to the aI ft article of association.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Secretary
rf **± 4- Sio
c " This Day Published,
J AND FOR SALE Br THE EDITOR,
( Price three eights of a Dollar.
ot THE Letter of the Secretary of State, to Mr. Pinck
ney, Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States, to
u§ the French Republic. February 4. 6t
b CAREY MARKLAND;
Ul T? ESPECTFULLY inform the Public, that in com*
tb XV pliance with the wiftes of their friends, they
h- have determined to publish the firft number of
,fe The DAILY ADVER iISEK,
On Tuesday next, the 7th of February inft.
Snbfcriptions and advertisements received at No.
,l<; 83, North Second-street, and No. 01, Seuth Frout
'ur street.
February 4, 1797.Lancajler, Harrijburgh, Carhjk, Ship
pen.jhu.rg una Sunbury
STAGES.
f The public are requested to take notice, that the pari
nerfhip which has for sometime subsisted between Math
as Slough of Lancaster, and William Geer, is now dilTo
vcd ; but, not as M. Slough infinuatei to the publi
without just cause ; as will more fully appear by a lettc
on the fubje& from M. blough tp W. Geer, dated th
29th December last a recital of which ia Hot now deeme
neceflary. Any gentleman who wishes to be more cir
cumftantially informed of the hierits of this bufinef*, b
applying to W. Geer may have the perusal »f M. Slough'
letUr, and then can be at full liberty to determine whe
ther or not W. Geer is notperfe&ly juftifiabie in attach
ing himfelf to any other person in the profecuti jn t of th
Stage conveyance frojn Philadelphia to Shippenlburg
or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the publi
were pleased to confer on the firft effort in this bufinei
William Geer, in conjunction with Meflrs. Reily, Wee<
and Witmer, is determined to prosecute and carry it on
with every cafe, attention anddifpatch that a zeal to o
blige the public can pofftbly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided witl
carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to render th
paflage fafe and commodious, inform those who wifii t«
, patronize and encourage the undertaking, that they cai
take their feats at George Weed's, the sign ©f the Whit
Horse, Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
• and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Hirrifburg, Carlifl
and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto eftabiiiked.
For the further accommodation of the public, a Stag'
will Hart every Wednesday from the bouse of Samuc
Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sunbury in Nortkuxhber
land county, every TnuHday, and return from the»ce am
arrive at Harriiburg every Saturday, so that paflcnger
destined for Lanoaitcf or may proceed 01
Mondays.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 27, 1797-
' N. B. This Line of Stages ftaru from the house o
William Ferree, in Lancaster, on every Tuelday and Sa
turday morning at 6 o'clock, proceeding to the we ft ward
and from the houie of Mr. Samuel Elder in
every Wednesday morning, on the fame evening arrive!
at Patrick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns fron
thence on every Thursday : performing the sam? routine
daily as in its tour from Philadelphia.
Feb. 2. eotf.
S & A N N'S
Riding School» Horse Academy iff Infirmary,
Adjoiniug the Public Square, Market Street.
T. BWANN
RETURNS his fineere thanks to those gentlemen bv whom
he has been employed, during his residence in this City, and
flatters himfelf that the success of his dfo.its, in the numerous,
obstinate and dangerous diseases in Horses, in which he has
been consulted, together with his moderate charges, wi)l fe
ure their future favors and recommendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
that his fpaciou? and commodious premises, ere&ed for the
purposes above de-scribed are opsa for the reception of pupils
of either lex, who wi/h to beinttrud?;d in the Ait <#f Ridings
and the light method of governing their horses, so as to ride
thfcm with cafe, elegance, and- fafety—their horses will be
carefully and expeditiouUy broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient tot he will of the riders ; the natural powers
whicn are ihut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all those beauties of a&ion which providence has so bounti
fully bestowed on them.
Also, at his hospital, every disorder to which the horse tg
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the above mltitution has never been qneftion
ed, that it has long,been wanted in this city„ every gentleman's
stud will manii eft, and T. Swhnn as the fiift eftablifher of
tbe veterenary art, solicits and relies upon the fuppoit of that
public (which he is ever envious in serving) to enable lam to
bring it to perfection. The idea of a fnbfdription for ihat
purpose has beeu hinted by feveial gentleman,, who wish 10
promote the institution—the amount of each subscription to
be returned by services in any of the departments he proiefTes,
agreeable to the rate of chargcs stated in his hand bill. Siich
v lbbfcription is now open,, and the fignaturfsof many refpefl
able gentlemen already obtained. He therefore injorms his
friends and such Ladies and «renilemen to whom he has not
the "honor of being known, that he shall in a few days take
the liberty of waiting upon them and iolicitiug their support
and protfftion.
N B. Horses are properly prepared for those
iGentlemenwho wish to be inftriitted.
Nov. 5; tth&f.
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South Fourth Jlrcet,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends aficl the Public for their liberal encouragement,
and begs leave tp solicit a continuance of their favors.
He-has on hand, an extensive assortment of the
Mo/i Fajhionable GOODS, y
And of the best quality, suitable for the fcafon.
At this shop Gentlemen can be furnifhed with the best
materials, and have them made up in the neatest and mod
Tafliionable manner* and on the 'horteft notice. He will
thankfully aby orders, and pay a prompt and
pun&ual attention L to them.
November 10. ws
Bank of Pennfylvani-a,
January 4, 1797.
At a meeting of the Dircdlors th's a dividend of
iixteen dollars on each fiure was declared for the last
6 months, which will be paid to the Stockholders af
ter the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cashier.
J"»- 3. dtf.
Samuel Richardet •
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opeued the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia;'
The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all the
daily papers p-jblifhed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore ; together with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—Tkey will fee regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
Of .French Liquors; together with the usual refrelkmeuts,
vrill at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
approved Malt' Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and eariieft
productions of the Season.
Large and small Farties, or Cngle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours mod convenient to thsnifelves—a cold Collation is
jegvdarly.kept for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
at tha bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and
the utmost attention paid to clemluitfs, and other
requisite.
gj" S\s«orL Richardet will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
targe; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part lhali be wanting to prc
fcrve that patronage with which he has b«eu so diilinguilh
jugly honored.
filiUdelphia, April 19. mwf
- 1 A Quantity of Brandy,
FiRS f & adpr'Hif,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pip s
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pirns and half-pints
Window Glais, in boxes, of different lizes
" r Hazicnnts, inlatks
c Whiting
1 Operas ( inkhd ,
Whitehead t
f Sc Spaiiifl) Brown J
s For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
1 Canal Lottery, No. 11.
e Scheme of a Lottery, authorized oy an ail entitled
' "An a (ft to enable the Pretldent and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Suftpiehannah navigation, to rjile, by
C way of Lottery, tlit l'urn of Fotir Hundred ihoufand
j' Dollars, for theipurpofc ot completing the works, in
their acts of incorporation mentioned.
Dollars
1 frize of twenty thousand dollars, so,oca
j I of ten thousand dollars, lo,Ocj
5 of lour thousand dollars each, to
, be plid to the pofleffors of the live
1 numbers firft out ot the wheo on me iafl
; day's drawing, at which time theie lhall
r not be less than 500 numbers 29,000
s 10 of two thousand dollars each, »o,qoo
20 <)f one thousand dollars cach, 20,000
; 43 of five hundred dollars each, 21,500
1 100 of two hundred dollars each, 20,c0s
100 of one hundred dollars each, io,oco
' 220 of fifty dollars each, xi,ooa
5 29,500 of five dollars each, I47>s°°
30,000 Tickets at ten dollars each, 300,000
Six dollars for tach ticket will only be demanded at
f the time of sale.
All prizes (hull be paid ten days after the drawing is
1 Snilhed, upon the demand ofthepoileflbrofa fortunate
' ticket, fubjeiil to a deduition of fifteen per cent.
' Such prizes as are not demanded within 12 'months
1 ' after the Drawing is finilhed, of which public notice
will be given, shall be conlidercd as relinquished ior
the tife of the Canal and applied
At a me&iing of the Prelident and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Siifquehanna Canal Navigation—and
the Prelident and Managers of the Delaware and
Schuylkill Canal,
Resolved, That Joseph Ball, John Steinmctz, Stan
' dish Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Crca, John Mil
\ ler, junr. and Willi.im Montgomery be a committee
; to arrange and direst the mode of dii'pofing of the
tickets; which committee Ciall depolit the money in
Bank, to be carried to the credit of an account to be o
| pened for the Lottery.
I At a meeting of the Canal Board, held January 16, '97,
Rtfolved, That the committee for conducing the
Lottery be directed to commence the .drawing on the
firft day of March next.
Extradl from the minutes,
Wm. M. Smith, Secretary.
Jofepb Ball,
John Stsinmelz,
Srtaudijh Forde,
: ; Francis Weft, }> Manager!.
James M'Crea,
Jobu Miller, jun. |
William Montgomery, J
Jan. 20. th& f.tf
Cftty oi W
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
fOR THE IMI'KOVZMLNT u t Thl
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent \ to,ooo dollars, & >
dwclling-liotilo, 5 caih 30,000, are 5 Co °
I ditto 15,000 & cafs 25,000 40,000
I d.tto 15,000 .& cash 15,000 30,000
1 1 ditto xo,ooo & cash 10,000 20,c00
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 to,ooo
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
I cash prize of lo,oou
» do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
20 do. 500 - - 10, WOO
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
»oo do. 50 10,000
400 do. 25 - 10,000
1,000 do. 20 - 20,000
15,000 do. 10 - 150,000
'6,739 Prizes.
33,261 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may* take a. quantity of
Tickets,theprizeof4o,ooodollars-wdlbethc drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing paym : t in either money
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, wiil be received for
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery vyill afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be creAed in the City of Washington
Two beautiful designs ate already (clewed for the°entire
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings
it ispropol'cd to ereci two centreand four corner btildiags,
as soon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to tire fortunate adventurers, in
the mannerdefcribed in the fcheine for the Hotel Lotterv.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
the necessary expenses of printing, the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
Univorlity, to be elected within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will cominei.ce as soon as the tickets are
old off.—-The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is finilhed; and any prize# for which fortunate
numbersaie not produced within twelve mopthsafter th
drawing is closed, are to be confidercd as given towards
the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
l'he real fecurit.es given for the payment of the Prizes
aro held by the Prcf-dent and two Dire&ors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than kalf the a
mount ot the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the Lite Commifhoners aflilted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk
- time on behalf ef the public ; a fufficient num 1
ot these having kindlyacccpted.it is hoped that the
.ends to a National Univenity and the other federal ob
jects may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different pirt. of the
Continent as well as from Europe, white the tickets
have been ftnt for sale, the public are assured that Un
drawing will speedily eommen»e, and that the care and
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe dilpofal of
the tickets, has rendered the inor- suspension indifpenfabU
st- 1 , , SAMVfiL BLODCET.
.§, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia - of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Oilman, Bcfton :
Coipcr : s Fe7ry!' l! K d ' ° f W ' lls
1 For Sale,
By Geofge Defctiamps, No, 91,
WORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrel and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by tlie dozen or tingle one
Dry Codfifli, from one to fifty kentals
Fin? and coarft Salt.
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the stone
and grpund, for manure and stucco-work
December I
Elegant Brussels'& Turkey Carpeting,
For sale by George Dobfon, No. 2J,'oouth Third-ftrect.
Deeeiuber 15. dtf
_ " CAMILLA,
Or A Picture of Youth.
By tKe authoress of Evelina and Ceciria, to be cora
prifed in live volumes, at half-a dollar each, payable
on delivery —Printed, at New-York, by Mr. John
Bull.
CONDITIONS.
I. Handsome, neat type, perfedllj new, is em
ploved»
11. A volume, stitched ia blue paper, is intended
to be pubiifhed every a weeks, till the five are com
pleted ; the firft and second are come to hand, and the
third is hourly expedUd. Subfcnptioris are received,'
and Books may be had of J. OKMROD, No. 41,
Chefnut-llreef
«
Mrs. D'Arblay (late Mil's Burney) tlie celelrrated
authoress of this inimitable work, iletds no eu'ogy
to add to the laurels she has already acquirer" in the
literary world. The Strength of imagination and ele
gance of style, displayed in Evelina and Cecilia, will
Sufficiently iteomiiiend to every reader of talte and
judgmest, the perusal of Camilxa.
It may not be improper to add, that the Queen of
England, after having peruled this intcrdling publi
cation, presented Mrs. D'Arblay vj'ith a thouLnd
pounds sterling, as a testimony of her approbation of
the work.
Tanuorv 2? cots
Houfcs and Lots for sale,
BY the Subscriber, in the town of Weft-Chefler, Ches
ter county, 25 miles from Philadelphia, on the great
state-road, leading WefKvard' Viz. No. j. A two-flory
Stine House, the corner of High and Gay flreets, 40 feet
front by 34 feet deep, including a very convenient florc
houfe : the Heufe contains teh well-finifhed rooms, a kit
chen and entry : the Lot is 144 feet front t>n Gay-street,
—equal to any Hand in Weft-Chcfler. No. 2. A two-llo
ry ftnne house adjoining, 27 feet front, containing eleven
well-finifhed rooms, both being ceiled in the garrets, house
and lot fame depth as the other, a kitchen, &c.—cellars
under hoth houfcs, with good ltables on the Jots. TJlefe
Houfcs are almost new, done by good workmen, in a
ma.ierly manner. No. 3. a'Lot 4» feet front. No. 4,
34 feet. No- 5, 44 feet. No. 6, 119 leet, all of them
ten rods deep. On two of the above are ereitedlthree log
and Irame houfcs, two (lories high, cellars under the
whale, and a small liable to each-
The above Lots are situated near the Cpurt-Houfe. The
whole will be exposed to PUBLIC SALE, on the nil and
aid days of February sext, at two o'clock, when the con
ditioHs will be made known Possession may be had the
firft of April next. TheTitleis indisputable.
JOHN KINNARD.
January j8 fzaw3w
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South Stcond-Jireet.
SCHEME of rLOTTERY,
For raifiiig Sixty Thousand agreeably u> an A6l of
the Legiilature ot Peruifylvairfa, pifl'ed during the la a
I--(lion, for building a Stone Budge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, i* the County of
Dollars.
> Pi he of 2.0*000 Dollars - 20,00 c
1 do. of to.ooo do, - - io,ooo
3 do. of 5,000 do. - - ifrooo (
4 do. of 2,000 do. . - 8,000 j
20 do. of 1,000 do. - - - 20,000
39 do. of 500 do. . 19,500 1
Sq do. of ttoo do. ... ib,oco c
200 do. of 100 do. - 20,00 c 2
3°° of 50 do. - 15,000 i
1 do,. of 500 do to be paid the posses- > |
for f the firik drawn 110.) s oc j
$ do. of 3,000 do. to be paid possessors > f
of'the five lift drawn nos $ I 5» 00 °
9,400 do. o 15 do. ; - 141,000 .
10,054 Prizes 300,000 f
19,946 Blanks
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars $o£,ooo b
All Prizes shall be paid fifteen days after the drawing i» t>
fini(hedupon the demand of a polleilor of a fortunate 0
ncket, fubj<£l to a deduction ot twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as foobfcai the Tickets are disposed
01, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William Wttman, ,
Jofepb Hiefler, 'James Diemer, Thomas Dundas,
James May, 'John Otto, John Keim, Daniel CraeJJ, p
Sebajian Miller, Commissioner-s.
Reading, May the 9th, 1796. g
T/ckets in the Canal Lottery, No. a, to be had at the p
abore^office, where the earlidl information of the draw- n
ingof the Washington No. 2, and Patterfon Lottery's, n
arc received, and checkbooks lor examination and regif d
tering are kept,
Tickets in the above Lottery to be had at Mr, Sheri- t
4an s Uace-llrvet, John Hay, North Third-street and f
Henry Sw. yer's, German Town.
January 26 aawtf p
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, Seulk Second street.
r PICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. z, for sale—a ;
Check Book for examination——and prizes paid in r
the late lottery.
Cheek Books kept for examination and rejiftering, for (
the City of Wafliington, No. a, and Pattefon Lotteries, p
both of which are now drawing—information where >
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New- ,
l'ort Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for ,
examination. r
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public 1
and his friends, who wife to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates. Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands, .
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property. -
*** Also Tickcts in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Tcu Dollers each, which will be drawn early in 1
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, January %6, 1797. ictk
■ 5
This Day is Pii; lifted,
Br BJO Ji. EN Ann M i DAN,
And to be Sold at their Printing-Office, in Doclc
ftrett ; by M. Carey, No. 118, Marktt-frrect •
Thomas Bradford. No. 8, South broY.f-ftriiet, and
George Douglafa, I\'o. 2, South Thi:il ilreet,
(Price, neatly bound., t~oo dollars)
AN ENQJJI R Y
Concerning Political Justice,
And its Influence on Morals and Happiness,
By William GqnwiN.
THE reputation of th; work is already well efia^
blifned in Europe—lt is hardly neteiTary for an Ame->
rican editor to ijy more than barely to mention, that
the Enquiry concerning Political Justice has ever
since its publication been a favorite performance w*tu
the friends of republican government. The lii'e is
pure, nervous, and classical; the Ideis are ftcoiiKly 1
marked by an original vein of thinking ; and, anion .it
a multitude of other just and ftrikiug pillages, the
author's delineation of the peculiar infelicities inftpa
rable from the condition ot a King, raay be pointed
out as a mod mafteriy specimen of philofopliical d.f
qtiifition. The latest London edition of .his work
fells in this city at four dollars and an half.
January 24 dstawzw
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE ani) PRICE,
No. 79, Market-street, Philadelphia,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals ir ia
London, i large aflortment «f WARRANTED
ir AfCHES, eonfiitiiig of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with of fiipenor
workmanlhip and elegance ; alio capp'd and jt vel'd
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jewsll'd, capp'd,
seconds, day of the mouth, and plain S.lver Watches ;
eight day & chamber Clocks.; elegant French Clocks
witn marble frames j eight day and thirty hour, brass
works, &c.
Deccmbct at. 1706. v
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A valuable SO/.P and CANDLE Manufactory iiiuate
in a convenient part ot the city ; ihe works almolt new,
00 an entirely original boiiftiuttioa, and builioi ihe bejl
niatcxisls, ami in^y—i>c fee io_ miiiiifdiitfly.
who wilh to purchase, are requeOed to apply »i No - 73 ,
South Second Street. September 13. t t 1 if
Porcupine's Gazette. 8
Proposals by WILLIAM COBBETT, opposite Chtift
Church, Philadelphia, for pubiilhing a lidw.-paoer,
to be entitled 1
Porcupine's Gazette, Daily Advertiser.
Methinks 1 hear the reader exclaim ; " What! have
we not Gazettes enough already ?" Yes, ,md far tao
many : but thole that we have', are, in general, "con
ducted in such a manner that their great number, irf- '
Itead ot rendering i.iine unnecessary, i, the only cause
that calls for its eftablifliment.
T he gazettes in this country have done it more real in
jury than all its open enemies ever did or can do. They
mjflead the people at home and ihifreprefent theiji a
btoad. It was these vehicles of sedition and difcortl
that encouraged the counties in the Weft to rebel ; it
was they that gave i ife to the depredations of Britain,
by exciting the people to such aft.; of violence against
lljat nation, as left no room to dsubt that we were de
termined on war ; and it was they, when an accent- J
I modation had been happily effected, that flirred up an
opposition to it such as has seldom bten wiuefled, and
whieh was-oveicome by mere chance. These gazettes
it was, that, by mifrcprelenting the difpofitioi.s of the
pc irl.*j encflairjigad the Fi ein jt -to -pn cccd from one
degree of infulenceto another, 'till at last their Minis
ter braves the President in his chair, aad a bullying
commander comes and tells us that his only bulinets is
to seize our veliels, in violation of a treaty, in virtue
ot wiuch alone lie claims aright to enter our ports : and
it is these gazettes that now have the impudence to t'e
fend what their falfehood and malice have produced.
I lhail be told that the people are to blame ; that
they are not obliged to rea.i thefe> abominable publica
tions. But they do read them ; and thoufsnds who
readthein, read n.Sthing else. To suppress them is nn
polTjbie ; they will vomit forth their poison ; it i,» a pri
vilege of their natures, that no law Ift abridge ; and
therefore the only mode left is, to eouiiteradt its efu cts.
-This inuft be done, too, in theirown way. Books,
or periodical publications in the form of books, iii.iy
be of fomc lervice, but are by no means a match for '
their flying folios. A falfebood that remains uncontra
dicted for a month, begins to be looked upon as a truth,
and when the dete&ion at last makes its appearance, it
is often as useless a that ef the dodtor who finds his
patient expired. The only mcthodiof opposition, then,
is to niat;t them on their own ground ; to let foot to
foot ; dispute every inch and every hair's breadth;
fight them at their own weapons, and return them two
blows for one- i
A gazette of this stamp is what I have long wished to
fee, but I have wished and sxueifted it in vain. Indig
nation at the fupiiienefi of otilers has at last £ot the
better of all diffidence in my own capacity, and has de
termined me to encounter the talk People have heard
one fide long enough ; th»y shall now hear the other.
CONDITIONS.
1. Porcupine's Gazette shall be of the usual size,
and the fubfeription Eight Dollars a year, to be paid at
the expiration ef kalf year.
2. Advertisements will be inserted at half the usual
price, which will always be reyuireu in ready money.
The Censor, containing thole pieces from the
gazette that may appear worth preserving in a more
portable form, with such amplifications and amend
ments as time may give rife to, lhall be published
monthly, and each fubferiber lhall be entitled to a ct^iy,
delivered with his paper at the end of the month,
4- If a fuflicient number of fubferibers be obtained
the firft number of the Gazette lhall appear on, or be
fore the sth of March.
N. B. A fubfeription book is now ojien at mylhop,
sppofite Chrilt-church, whithergeßtlemsuiii the coun
try, who wilh to fubferibe, are l eqtieftedw fend their
names.
Subscriptions are taken at Bolton by Mr. James White, J
bookseller ; at Salem, by Mr. Debeny, post-master';
at New-Haven by Mr. Beers, bookseller ; at Newbu
ry.port, by Mr. E- Blunt, bookseller; at Ne.v-}trk,
by Mr. S. Campbell, bookseller; at Baltimore,by M''.
G. Hill, bookseller; at Chester-town, Maryland, br
Mr. ]nuc* Arthur, polt-mafter; at Ballon, do. I'Y
Mr. Greenbury Neal; at Freder ck tow n, do. by
Meflrs. Isaac and John Mentzj at Richmond, Vii .%
by Messrs. Pritchard and Davidfon ; at Noifelk, by
Meflrs. Rainbow and Hannah ; and at Charleston, by
Mr. Young, bookseller.
Jan. it. eoiot.
■ — T
PRINTED BY JOHN FE N N
—No. 119—
C H ESNUT-STRfc BT.
[Price tight Dollar# ptr Annua.}