of tje nitets skate AND Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.,
Number 1633.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
Far DR r GOODS. 5
f Forenoon —Edward Fox, No.
M , S south Front-street, K
" Q Afternoon —Footman & Co. No.
South Front-ftrcet. ' p a
f Forenoon —John Counetly, Old City a b
_ r .. \ AuAion, No. 73 fouf'h Front-flreet. re
9 e J y\ Afternoon—William Shannon, No. th
183 High-street.
itr j rj ( Afternoon —Peter denfon, No. 74
We due [day | ( - outh Th ird-(lrcet.
ctl ej ( Forenoon—»£dward Fox.
Thursday | afternoon—John Connelly.
~ } Forenoon —William Shannon.
Friday J Afternoon —John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon —Peter Benton.
T> Y virtue of a writ Fieri Facias to me directed,
I I will be exposed to Public Sale, at my Office,
Race, or Saffafras tlreet, no. 117, on Monday, the 1
4th day of D'ccmber next, at II o clock, a. m.
90 j groc« Buttons, assorted T
2 do. Shirt do. -I
}<D bags Imperial do. ly
* 4 dozen fhoc Buckles th
• 2 pairKu<Jtlcs with Latchets
4 l'% dozen Knives and Forks
29 5.1 a do. worlted Hose, assorted
17 2-1 x do. printed linen Handkerchiefc _
I piece clear Lawn
18 1-4 lb sewing Silk
a pieces black Lawn ({tripe;
5 1-4 yards striped Caffimere
24 grcce, 5 1-2 dozen Tape, assorted f
I dozen Nonfoprettics I
I I-z groce Tully Garters
10 pieces black twilled Ga loon
jS3 do. Ribbon, assorted - ™
»3 do. Bindanoeo
4 3-4 lb- gloss thread
82 do. coloured
6 pieces 4-4 white French Net
18 do. Casza
I do. fpottcd Mode
I do. drab Sattin
1 do. white Flanrnl
I do. yellow do.
I» yards Parlatian
J whitafilk Shawls
13 1-2 doz. silk and cotton do.
*0 piecet F«rret
3 do Shalloons
I doz. black leather Gloves
1 do. best beaver do. ,
2 pieces Cuckr&m
95 1-2 doz. English Fans .
5 do. ladies tinsel Bands
a lb- scarlet worlted Chord
1-2 grocs white cotton do.
15 M chapel needles, assorted b
syß yards mixed plains V 3
18 1-2doz. worftedSocks
jp lb. Twist b
1 1-4 doz. best silk stay Laioa
5 do. best Ferret do.
T do. iron Candlcfticks -
I piece black elastic (stripe)
7 do. cap Border.
Seized and taken in execution as the property of
jofiah Willard Gibbs, and William Gibbs, and will
lie fold by
William Nichols, Marshal.
Marjbafs Office, ")
November 29, 1797. S dtS a
To be fold at the Merchant's Cof
fee-Houfe,
ON the tenth day of December next, at 7 o'
clock in the evening, one certain bond 01
obligation dated July 16, 1795, signed by John
Love of Alexandria for himfelf, Jofiah Watson
and Samuel Lovefor Virginia currency,
payable on the 31ft of Oftober lalt palt,to Stock
ley Donelfoa or his assigns—which Bond the |
said Donelfon assigned to James Grant, under
whose power of attorney this l'ale will be made. •
For further particulars apply to the fublcribers.
FOOTMAN and Co. Auctioneers.
Nor. 28. dtYdthd.
TO BE sold;
Or Exchanged for Property in the Country,
That three story Brick House,
No.' 157, north Third ftrcet. Apply at the of
fice of this Gazette. Nov. 29- W&S4W
A person well acquainted with
the theory of book-keeping, who has Wen many
years engaged in business tor himfelf and others,
would be glad to be employed, either as an agent
or factor; or in polling books ; stating unsettled
accounts ; or in executing any other kind of writ
ing, in French or English,
A nite addrefled to J. A. and left at this office,
will be punctually attended to.
November 30. w » 3awtf
A Compting House to let,
A Mod convenient Compting House is noVv for
hire on Rol's's wharf, directly over the arch.
For terms, apply to
Samuel Brecl, jun.
No. 89, south Third tlreet.
Where may be had,
A few bales of Ravens Duck, and about 100
pieces of ftoutCanvafs ; a frnall quantity of Maee,
and some high proof Brandy ; Sherry Wine, Cho
colate in boxes, Window Glass of various Czes
and dimensions. Dec. i.—«o4t
This Day Pablifhed,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNO, eonier of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price $-%tbs of a Dollar,
Qbfervations on certain Documents
Contained iw No. V and VI of
*' The History of the United State* for
the year 1796,"
In which the charg* or speculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late StCHZTAav of the Treasury, is EULLY
REFUTED.
IT K 1 E N BY KIMS sir.
This publication presents a concise statement
ef the base means pradifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the characters of those
perfonswho arc considered as hostile to their disor
ganizing' schemes. It also contaiis the cor
respondence between Mr. Humilton and Mcffrsu
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venab'e, on the i'ub
jc& of the documents aforefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt,
that the connection between him and Reynolds,
was the rel'ult of a daring confpirasy on the part
of the latter and his associates to extort money.
■•-y \ discount of one thirdfrom the retail price
will be made in favor ot wholcfaie purchasers, for
•ash. Orders to beaddr.fied t« Mr Youtm.
AvguA 2s.
PHILADELPHIA:
For Londonderry,
The American Ship
BOSTON PACKET, \
Coppertmwait, Matter, j
V.-> ]sjoW lying at Mifflin's Wharf, ! o>.
near Vine-street—Has elegant accommodations for fe
passengers—will fail, weathar permitting, on or ta
about the jcth inft. hiving all her cargo engaged pi
ready to go on board. For passage only, apply to
the captain.
Smith b* Ridgway,
No 4, North Water'fttreet'jOr to A
Isaac.Harvey, Jun.
No. 5, South Water ftrcet.
December 1 s tot
tor Amsterdam, ,
ED W S AK D, I
James Wickkam, Majler, q
EXPECTED to fail in a few days, having two ly
ithirdsofher cargo already engaged,and near. T
ly on board. For Freight or Passage, apply to O
the Mailer on board, at Hamilton's wharf, or to Si
John Donnaldfon, 8
No. 22, Walnut-ftrect.
November 28. dßt
— ——. Isj
Jt'or Ainiterdam, ®
t-wtc. The Ship A
FARMER, i<
John M'Co-llom, Matter;
WILL fail in a few days, the
part of her cargo being .
ready. For freight ef fifty tons of Coffee, orpjf- 1
Ugv, apply ta the mailer on board, at Walnut- m
ftrcet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE. g.
Who is Landing, out of the said Ship, from Bor
deaux, and For Sale, r<
Claret in hhds. v
White Wine in quarter calks _
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fentiniac, p;
Sauteme, Wines in cases
I.nniUe, 1
Prunes in boxes
novembtfri4. -
For Liverpool,
[..«■ The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
Captain Silas Swaim. I
A Large proportion of her i
JE\, cargo being ready to go on I
board, is expedtcd to fail on or about Sunday, the
3d of December. x n
For Freight or Passage, apply to the Captain on
board, at Wmlnut-ftreet Wharf, or to
PHILIP NICKLIN £3* Co.
November 22. $
FOR LONDON,
JI^W ILIAM PENN,
James Josiah, Master.
THE (hip tsnow taking on board her cargo, »nd
will fail in all next week. For freight or passage
apply to the captain, or to
JeJfe & Robert Wain.
nov 21 ■
For Londonderry,
the brigantine
,r SU KEY,
William Whitten, Mafler.
/ strong good veffal, about two
hundred Tons, to fail with all convenient speed, a
great |part of her cargo engaged—now lying at
Willing and Francis's what f. For freight or pas
. face, apply to the captain, or
g JOHN SKYRIN,
Landenbergtr % s wharf.
Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel of about three hundred tons,
fov '8« **\ ~ _iL ' x
For bavannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Chish-olm,
, A new vessel, with excellent
siS^ili^fcSi? accommo( j lt i ons for paffengcrs—
Sails on the loth of December. Pur Freight or
Passage, apply to ROSS t3" SIMSON.
Who have to dispose of,
> A small inveice of GL AUBEK. SAL TS
INDIOO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
ro-vember 18.
for Hamburgh,
r The Brig MARY,
Peter York, snaller,
I Lying at duffel's wharf, near Pine
t 'Ww(l^ft t e ( t, is now ready to take in a
i Cargo, and will fail in hd days.
For Freight, or Passage, apply to
o OURNEY k SMITH.
*' November 16.
■ 4 " Wanted to Charter,
H r^3T2 T° one P ort nifjianiola and back
faft failing Vessel, of the bur
trf Sol /or 700 barrels. For terms, apply to
Benjamin Morgan, No. 17°, io " tl J^'°"'J lreet '
or to ROBERT ANDREWS,
IKV _ jo. 5 No. 86, South Wharves.
)r ~ T ~~ For Charter,
THE SHIP
, John Bulkley,
Samuel Volans, Mafler.
Y ffiSfC?^^'~l~ , HIS vessel is built of live oalj
X and cedar, o£ about 30c o
barrels burthen, and ready to receive on board a
Cire °' J l F e & R°t> ert Wain.
ir- Oil. 31. ' £_
ir - For Sale &r Charter,
k" -fp-Cg*** The fall failing brig
a- Brothers,
i>t, t m I,yi«g at Gurling's wharf,
is < an excellent tingle dcck'd vessel, burthen about
lrt i6co barrels—not twelve months old, and in
compleat order. For terms apply to the master
:' e on board, or to
or Joseph Anthony Co.
Nov. ' dlw -
By John Fen no, N°- 119 Cfrtefnut Street
SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER a, 1797
THE SHIP 1
CO MM E-R C % n
Captain Richard Waistcoat, r y
Liverpool i.s now discharging cei
at Morris's wharf, near the Drawbridge, where 11
owners of goodson freight, will please fpeediljr to ha
f?nd their permits. Stl ; veifol will after be
talce in freight on Very low team for liofton. Ap- be
ply to the captain, or to
Isaac Harvey, jun. w
No. 5, South Street. >pu
A few tons of (tone, os sand ballail wanted.—
Apply as above. bo
november 17 §tot. at
Philip Nicklin fcf Co.
HAVE FOX SALE,
At their Storrs on Walnut flreet Wharf,
Havannah Sugars, white and brown
25 hhds. Jamaica do.
3000 piece# of broad Nankeens
Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighths of chefls
Quicksilver in tubs
Madeira Wine in pipes and hogsheads
Teneriffe Win&in pipe?
Old led Fort Wine in hogfliead*
Sail Canvass, airorted, No. I to 8
8 cases of Manchester Goods, confiding of Dimities,
„ Muflinets,Gingham»,Thickfetts,Corduroys, &c. I* l
aoo crates Queens* Ware, ailorted
Nails, aflorted he
Black quart Bottles ar
Yellow Oere in calks lit
A quantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, &c.
ioo quarter calks Gun Powder no
They lave also for SALE or CHARTER,
HAMBURG PACKET\ F '
® urt^en 3 7,0 ton 8» coppered to
the bends, and fitted.
Thejhip MOLLY y burthen 340 tons, a
good vessel, and completely fitted.
The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
rels, may be ready for fe* io.a few days.
The whole of the above veJTels to be seen at
Walnut street Wharf. § nov. ic.
Rundle ss* Leech,
Have jufi. received, and have for Sale, at no. 9,
Walnut-ftrect,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT
Do. best house CO ALS jj
Queens' WARE in cases, assorted
Beurdeaux BRANDY of an «icetlent quality
Do. CLARBT in cases, do.
thpy havi also
For SALE or CHARTER,
i73KsS^'' 1 ! TBl IBir
» PEGGY,
tons, in excellent condition, and r
may be sent to fea>with little expemce or delay,
LIKEWISE, j
wILL'IAM, ]
Burthen aoi tons, c
november 16.
For Sale or Charter,
-> —a,-, The Snow
GOOD HOPE,
Will carry about I ICO btrrels, and
is ready to take in a cargo. For terms j
apply to
Pragers la Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have forfale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lifhon, and Ttncriffe v/ine.
November 7. dtf.
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By (hip Edward, from Madeira, and Betfcy and
Peggy, froa\ Oporto, in Pipes and Hoglheadi,
For sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFfcRS FOR SALI,
The Ship
AMITY,
Four thousand barrels burthen,
V-fejiSKeSSSiii excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo —about three years old.
likewise,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 barrels, ready also to receive a car
go-~~and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Just landed from the above vessels at South ftrcet
wharf. eoim. Nov. I.
James & Richard Smith,
r-pAKE the liberty of informing their Triends
1 and the public, that they have removed their
llore to No. 54, Soutb Front f rut, next d.or to Ed
ward Fox's Auction Room, where they have at
' this time for sale, a large and general affortmentof
e European & Eafl India Goods,
a Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
William Penn, &e. See.
Oft. 87- " .
Samuel Pleafants & Sons,
No. 74, South Second-jlreet,
HAVE received a lupply of Seal'onable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, 011
reasonable terms. Pit 17. 4' v
- SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincent 3, > RUM,
and Bengal j
300 calks RICE, *rad
A parcel of Ihip building RED CEDAR.
15, oa. 17- $
Landing this day,
From on board the schooner Two Friends, Dan
iel Crawley, Master,
80 hhds. and ; T arna i ca RUM,
1» pipes yJ 7
FOR SALB BY
George Latimer £s* Son.
'' november 9. §
Jt Wanted, to Hire,
in • Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
er /\ the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given,; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a iong#r term. Inquire of th« Printer.
©a. 17., o°^
Library Company of Philaaelphia.
THE Members of the Library Company of
Philadelphia are hereby informed, that the Libra
ry will be open on Monday next, the 4th of De
ceiiibcr, for the reception and/ delivery of books.
Tkofe who neglcA to return the books, \vhich q,
had been V-ken.out previous to the firft of Scptem- e j
ber lad, in the course of the ensuing week, will
be fined as the rule direct.
The Loganian Library ev
Will also be opened at thu sam» 'ime, for the lite til
>purpofcß. A
N. B. A few copies of the catalogues of the
books belonging to these inftitutidns may be had O
at the Library. oi
Z. POULSON, jun. Librarivh. ~~
Library, noveoib.r 10.
i he City Dancing Ajffembly,
Will commence at O'Eller's Hotel, on f°
Thursday December 7th.
Thomas M, Willing Stephen Klngfton
Jimes Gibfon William Read
Henry Wikoff Robert E. Griffith.
Managers.
Nov. 19th. dßt '
All Per son s
Having any demands aga-nft the Eftete of the
late Captain George Irwin, are requested to
bring ill their accounts pioperly attested, on or
before the firft day of January next «,nfuing
arid those who are indebted to said estate ar« so
licited to shake immediate payment to
SaRAH IRWIN, Adminiilratrix.
Nov. 19 1797. 4
~ NOW LANDING, »
From on board the ihip Farmer, lying at Harper's
Wharf,
Claret in hhds.
Ditto in cases
Sauteme Win« in do.
For Sale, apply to _
John Whitefides & Co.
No. 138, arket-ftreet. a
Also, on hand, ii
Bnurdcaux Brandy in pipes °
Fine old Antigua' Rum
A few cases of Claret, of a superior quality,
november 29. §
IMPORTED
IN the (hip Aurora, from Hamburgh, and for
sale by the Subscriber.
Bed ticks, 8-4, 9-4, and 10-4. ,
A quantity «f Tapes, No. 13 and 15. t
And on Ha\id,
German Wack Ribbon, No. 3 and 4. j
George Pennocl. t
november ti 3awiw
Landing,
From on board the (hip Edward, at Walnut
ftr«*t Wharf, .
London particular Madeira Wine,
of a fup®rior quality, For Sale by the fubferiber. 1
Robert Andrews.
November j. eotf
Wanted, by a Gentleman in Virginia,
A discreet, sensible Matron,
aged about 45 er 50 years, qualified to teach
young boys Writing, Arithmetic, History and
Geography—Also, to aft in the "capacity of House
Keeper For furthdr information apply to the
Printer. Nov. 18—dlw
T0 Gentlemen who intend spending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114. corner
of Sixth and Race Streets, 't he situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. f>et. 27 —dtf
1 Canal Lottery —No. 11.
Will commence drawing Monday, thezcth
inlt. rickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Snc„ Dollarl, at Wm. BLACKBURN'. Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-ttreet—
Tickets iu the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at 7«i
Datlan, where'check books are kept lor register.
> ing and examining in these, the City of Wafliing
c ton, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in molt of the Lotte
ries authorised by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The business of a Brokir, in buyingand
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
discounting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale ol
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly atterded to,
* by Wm. BLACKBURN.
November 15. §
" FOR SALE,
ls ATeamof~five excellentHorfes,
I with a Waggon and Gears. The Horles are all
young, strong, true to the draught, and capable
,f of hauling as great a weight as most in the coun
try. The Wagijon and Gears are strong, and
in good order. Apply to ROBERT GREEN,
r ' Weft Town, Chelter county, or* :o
Thomas Fijher,
" No. 142, S. Second Street, Philadelphia
II mo. 2, y eod3w.
s. B S E F.
Prime Beef, fit for India voyages, for sal* by
- WILLIAM SHEAFF,"
N®. 168, High-street.
Also, about fifteen hundred weight of Bees-
Wax. dtf Nov- 15, 1797-
Samuel & Miers Fisher,-
ARE NOW OPENING,
At their Warehouse, No. 27, Dock Stre«t, a freft
assortment of Woolen and other goods, feiitablc to
the feafen, received by the U'te arrivali from Eng
land.
They have also for Sale,
Lifbna" ~)
"" luart4r1 uart4r caflts '
Port Wiees, J
n- Assorted queen's ware U crates, &c.
10th mo-2 ;d. diwjtawjw.
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHER,
By ROBERT CA&II'BELL & Oo-
No 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]'
:ar A View of the Causes and Confequen,-
ces of the present War with francs■
°" By ths Honorable Thomas Easkine.
May ii §
D*A N C I N G.
Me. B TRN E,
OF the New Theatre, returns his fiwcere thai)ks
to the Lad it s and Gentlemen that konored hini last
fcafon—His Academy will open ad December, at
O'Ellcra's, Tucfday and Saturday mornings from
eleven to two for young Ladies, attended by Mri.
BtrNe ; on the fame days in the afternoon ft&ra
three till fix for young Gentlemen ; and in she
evenings of Thursdays and Saturdays, from fix
till rine for Gentlemen. Pleaf'e to apply at th«
Academy, at the hours of tuition.
Mr. livßNt's firft Ball will be on Tuesday, lath
December, and continue once a fortnight through
out the feal'on. December I—fs&inji
BUSH-HILL, ~
December I, 1797.
THE partner/hip between us, is this day du
folved by mutual confeat.
William Baits,
p William Darley.
t'uK ,S U.H,
By JOHN MILLER, jun. & Co.
No. 8, Ch«i:iut-ftreet,
One hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
Amongst which ar*, '
Gurrafys Mamoodies
Sannas
Guzzcnahs Tanda Coffaes * (
Guzzies Emer.ioa
Blue Cloth« Calico 5 %
Palampoors Romall Handker«hiefs
Amongli them are a great prpportion of the
raanufa&ttres of Patna.'
December i. §
7 0 he Sold,
A Bill on Richmond,
{Payable at fight. Inquire at this office.
Dec. 1. 2t
The Subscriber intends to make
application for the renewal of a Certificate of a Share
in the Bank of the United States, (landing in the name
of A. B. No. 5004, dated July it, 1797, the fame
having been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. i. (j6w
To be fold,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SE AT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereen, in apple
Orchard, fcc. situate on tKe Irith tra& lane, in the
townfllip of M»yamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Furtl.er particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
t+ic Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taste and
elegance, Hand unrivalled.
December I. dtf
"Mrs7~GR ATT AN,"
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of the City, that (he propoles having
Four ©ONCERTS and BALLS during the winter.
Six Dollars, each Subscriber, for one Tidiet of
admittance during the season.
No Subscribers Tickets transferrable.
Two Dollars a single Ticket.
The Concert to begin at half pad fix, and the
Band to attend for the Ball at eighth—the expenc*
of which Mrs. Grattan engages to difchargc.
The Concerts will begin as fooia as the Band ar j
rives from New York.
0- Subscriptions received, ind Tickets deliv
ered at No. 192, Market street. «
november 29. {l'V
Chocolate and Milliard,
of a superior quality manufailured,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; tfielled or
pearl Barley ; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale ;
London Porter ; red, Port and Lilbon Wine,
I'uitahU for exportation or home consumption.
The higheß puce given for Mustard-Seed.
Alfa forfale, A quantity of Bocking ani
1 common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of
1 Fultians, Shawls, &c, for sale bv
JOHN HAWORTH,
No. 98, foutli Froni-flreet.
[ nev. 27- m &th.t.ij.
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whole and half tierces
Bout deaux Brandy -
TeneriJJe Wine
j Molajfes
. Georgia and Carolina Indigo
I Ravens Duck and one hogshead of pai-it
, brushes.
N. ts 1 J. frazer.
No. 95, Sonth Front Street.
Nov. 7- dim
, Yellow Fever and Peltilenrial
II Diseases.
e _ THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. oflavo.
A By William Young, Bookseller,
[ No. s2, Second street, the corner of Chefnut flreet,
fPrict, in boardi 87 I 2 Ctnts)
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
' J VIEW
- Of the Science ef Life ;
On the principles established in the element
of Medicine, of the late celehrated
JOHN BROWN.M. D.
t. With an attempt to correfl some important er
s. rors of that work, and cases in illustration, chief
ly felefted from the records of their pra&ice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
{ Br William Tates & Chas. Maclean.
To which is fubj*ined, a Treatise on the aflion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
to tion for the cure of diftafes of indirect debility
Andadiflerfation onthe sources of Epidt-micand .•
Pcftilentialdiftafes; inwhichisattemptedtoprove
by a numerous induvlion of fa<sls, that they ne
ver arile from contagion, but are ajways produ
tr ced by certain dates, or certain viciUitudes of
the atmufpliere, by Charles Maclian, of
Calcutta.
Nov. 21. sl2t
To be Sold,
A Valuable Plantation,
OF upwards of One Hundred Acres of Land,
well watered, in a he. Ithy situation, about
seven miles from this City j the buildings may be
made to accommodate a large family, at a mode
fj. rate expense, and pofleflion Iwd in a few weeks.
Part ef the purchase-money being paid, a reafoa
t' able credit will be allowed for the ruijainder.
Enquire of the Printer,
noveuibor i mwftf
[VOLVMR XIIX|)£ Casctte*
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 2.
CONGR E S S.
||[ M| \
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. '
Debate on the Memorial of the Quakers.
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 30.
The memprial having been read by the
clerki
Mr. Gallatin moved that it be read a
second time.
Mr. Harper hoped not. This was not
ithe fird, second or third time that-the house
'had been troubled with fmiiiar applications,
which had a tendency to stir up a class of
persons to inflict calamities which would
bf of greater confequepc'c than any evils
which were at present fuffered ; and this,
and every other legislature ought to set
their fa,cm . .rertio;vfl,w.nces. cp,i»plciii\-
' ing of what it was utterly impossible to alter.
Mr. Thatcher hoped thepetition would
have a second reading, and be committed.
It appeared to him that this would be a re
gular way of getting rid of the difficulty
which was apprehended. The gentleman
just set down said, that this was not the
fird, second or third time that the house had
been troubled with similar petitions. This
he fr.id, was natuaal. If any number of
persons considered themselves aggrieved, it
was not likely they (hould leave off petition
ing, until the house (hould aft upon their
petition. He thought this was the way
that they ought to do. If the Quakers
thought themselves aggrieved, it was their
duty to present their petition, not only three
five or seven times, but fev?rity times, until
it wa3 attended to. Gentlemen, therefore,
who wished not to be troubled again, ought
to be in favour of a second reading and re
ference. At present they did not know
what the particular grievance complained of
was, nor whether it could or could not be
remedied. He believed that one of the fub
jefts of complaint had a reference to a mat
complained of in a memorial presented at
the tail feffioti, rfcfpefting some dark com
plex ioned citizens of North-Carolina, who
■were* injured by the operation of an aft of
the United States, called the Fugitive Aft;
but as it was the wish of the house not to
enter upon any business of a private nature
at that time, the petition was ordered to
lie on the table. It appeared, therefore,
highly proper that this petition be referred,
as was cuitomary, to a committee, that
this grievance might be rclnedied.
Mr. Lyon said, it appeared to him that
the gentleman from S. Carolina (Mr. Har
per) had not attended to the fubjeft matter
of the petition, or he would not have ob
jefted to it 3 being read a second timc.There
was a grievance complained of, which cer
tainly ought to be remedied, viz. that a
certain number of black persons who h*d
been ,set at liberty by their matters, were
now held in (lavery contrary to their right.
He thought this ought to be enquired into.
Mr. RuTLEDGE'ihould not be opposed
to the second teading and reference of this
memorial, if he thought the drong censure
they deserved, would be the report of a com
mittee. The censure, he thought this bo
dy of men ought to have; a set of men who
attempt to fedgCe the servants of gentlemen,
travelling to the feat of government, who
were incefTantly importuning Congress to in-'
terfere in a business with which the consti
tution had fafd they had\nb concern. If he
was furc tips conduft would be reprobated,
he would chearfully vote for a reference of
the present petition ; but not believing this
would be the cafe, he fliould be for its lying
on the table-, or under the table, that they
might not only have done with the business
for tp-aay, but fuiallr. At a time when
some nations were witnesses of the mod bar
barous and horrid scenes, these petitioners
were endeavouring to incite a class of per
sons to the commifiion of similar enormities.
He thought the matter of the greatefl im
portance, and that the reference ought by
110 means to be made. A grntleraan before
him (Mr. Lyon) had said, that they had
certainly something to do with the detenti
on of free men in slavery. If the faft were
as dated (which he doubted) redress ought
to be fought by means of a court of judice,
and not by petitioning that house.
Mr. Svvanwick was sorry to feefo muck
heat produced by the introduftion of this
petition." He himfelf could fee no reason
why the petition (hould not be dealt with in
the ordinary way. If the petitioners asked
for any thing which it was not in the pow
er of the house to grant, it would be of
course refund ; but this was no reason why
their petition fliould not be treated with or
dinary refpeft. In this memorial, he said
sundry things were complained of; not only
ilavery, but several other grievances. • For
indance, play-houses were complained of,
whether justly or not, he was not about to
decide. With refpeft to the grievance
mentioned in N. Carolina, something, per
haps might be done to remedy it, without
affefting the property which the gentlemen
seemed so much alarmed about. He could
not suppose there was a disposition in tbe
house to violate the property of any man ;
there was certainly as strong a disposition in '
the middle Hates as in the foutherri, to hold
inviolable ( the right of property; nor could
be fee any leafonable ground for throwing
this petition under the table. If these peo
ple wcrt wrong in their underftariding of
this fubjeft, it would be best to appoint a
committee to set them right. He was for
■ry to hear gentlemen charge so refpeftable a
body of men in that house <*f attempting lA
seduce and debauch their servants, frtr if
this were the cafe, redress could doubtless
be had in a court of juflice. The uncommon
warmth which was (hewn 011 the occasion
would lead .persons to suppose that gentle
men were afraid of having the matter locked
into, as this was generally the temper re
sorted to when argument w-;s wi.sting. He
lioped the memorial witul.l be dialt with in
the usual way.
Mr. Gallatin said, it was the praftice
of the House, whenever a memorial was pre
sented, to havs it read a fir It and second
time, and than to commit it, unless it were
exprelTed in filch indecent terms as to induce
the house to rejeft it, or upon a fubjeft u
pon which petitions had been lately rejefted
by a large majority of the house. In'no
other cafe were petitions rejefted without
examination and without discussion. He
said without examination and without dis
cussion, because it* was impossible, upon a
single reading of a petition, to be able to
form a found judgment upon it. Indeed,
feeing the way in which the
S. Carolina (Mr. Rut-ledge) had treated
the futjjeft, no cool examination could be
expefted at present ; in the moment of pas
sion it would be best not to decide, but to
feßd the petition to a committee. What
were the objections to this mode of proceed
ing ? It was that the fubjeft would (hake a
certain kind of property. How so J A pe
tition that reminds us of the fate of certain
Jilacks in this country ; which did not refer
to (laves, but to free men. This petition
was to (hake property ! In the fame manner
it might be said, that the law of Pennsylva
nia for the gradual abolition of Ilavery, had
also a tendency to destroy that property ; or
that the legislative decision of the state of
Massachusetts that there shall be no (lave un
der their government, wouldhave that effeft.
But it wqs fa:d, 'the eharaftersiof the peti
tioners was such as they ought to brand with
the mark of disapprobation. In support
of this charge, it was alledged that they
were not fatisfied with petitioning, but that
they attempted to <febauch and seduce ser
vants to rt,b gentlemen of tlneir property. —
He did not know to what the gentleman
who made this assertion alluded ; but he
believed, if the matter were fairly dated,
whatever may have been done in the.date of
Pennsylvania, has been no more than an en
deavour to carry into full effeft the laws of
the state, which fay, " that all men are free
when they set their foot within the state,"
excepting only the servants of members of
Congress. As to the moral charafter of this
body of people, though a number of their
principles were different from those which
j he profefTed, he believed it could not be said
; with truth, that they were friends to any
kind of disorder, and he was surprized to
1 hear gentleijien suppose they could or would
do any thing which would throw into dis
order any'part of the union. On the con
trary, he believed them to be good friends
of order. Mr. G. r ai<3, he wilhed to have
avoided a discussion of, the merits of
the memorial ; but when they were
told it was improper to do any thing on the
fubjeft, it became neceflary. He knew it
was in their power to do something. They
might lay a duty of ten dollars a head on
the importation of >flaves ; he knew a me
morial had been presented at a former session
refpefting the kidnapping of negroes, which
had been favorably reported upon.— Final
ly, tbe present memorial did not apply only
to the blacks, but to other objefts. With
refpeft to plays, they had a motion lad sessi
on before them for laying a tax upon ihem,
which had a reference to the 'fubjeft. By
committing this memorial, they (hould give
no dectfion. If the committee reported they
Could do nothing in the business, and the
house agreed to the report, the matter would
be closed in a much more refpeftful way
than by throwing the petition under the
table. ,
Mr. Sf.wali> said, the gentleman lad up
had dated two cases in which petitions had
been rejefted, without a commitment. He
might have added a third more applicable to
the present memorial. This was, when a
petition was upon matter over which this
house had no cognizance, especially if it
were of such a nature as to excite disagree
able sensations in one part of the house, who
were concerned in property which was al
ready held under circumstances fufficiently
disagreeable. In such cases, they ought
at once to rejeft tbe memorial, as it would
be mifpending time to commit it. If, for
indance, a petition should be presented com
plaining that a person had refufed to dis
charge an obligation to another. It would
be at once acknowledged that the house
could not enforce the obligation appli
cation must te made to a eourt of judice.
So in this cafe, th? petitioners complain of
a law of North Carolina. This house, he
said, could not ehange that law. If any
thing was done there contrary to right, the
oourt of that state, as well as those of the
United States, were open to afford redress.
It was their business, and not the business
of that house. They did come there to aft
upon fubjefts agreeable to their feelings, but
upon such as the constitution had placed in
their hands. The gentleman from Pennsyl
vania had said they might impose a tax of tfn
dollars upon the importation of evety (lave.
Would this, he asked, relieve the petitioners?
No. If they could prevent the kidnapping
of aegroes. it was well ; but nothing was
aimed .a tof this fort in the petition. He
reeollefted a former instance of this kind,
but the iffiie of the business (hevved that no
thing could be done without injuring the
public more than individuals would be be
nefitted. The petition alluded to Stage
Plays. With what view ?To raise reve
nue ? No ; but to a correftion of them with
refpeft to morals. It was not within their
province to do this, but under the power of
the state governments. If they were taken
up for the state of revenue, they did npt
come within the purview of this petition,
but of the committee of ways and means.
Upon the whole, as he considered this a dan
gerous business, and that they could do
nothing to gratify the feelings of the peti
tioners, he would not wish to treat the ap
plication with contempt, but let it lie on the
tahle.
Mr. Macon said, there was not a gen
tleman in North-Carolina who did not wifli
then? were no blacks iu the country. It
was a misfortune ; he cotifidtred it a curse ;
but there was no way of getting rid of
them. Instead of peace.makers, he looked
upon the Quakers as auar-tnnhrs, as they
vvert continually endeavouring in the south
ern Rates to stir up irffurreftions aKiongft
tflc negroes. It was unconllitutional, he
said, in these men to desire the house to do
what they had no, poiVer to do ; as well
might theyafk the President of the Uilited
States to come and take the
There was a la'w in
which forbade any perfqil fi:omj;]jflidiu£- ei-s
ther a black or white period as a,flaw after
he had been set at liberty. The 134 ne
groes alluded to in tht petition, he knew
nothing of. In the war, (aid, the Quak
ers in their state wets tories ; thty
began to set free their negroes, when the
state pafled a law that they (liould not set
them free. If these people were difatisfied
with the law, they had nothing to do, but
traiifport then negroes into Pennsylvania,
where thegentleman from that state had told
them, they would be immediately free.—
This fubjeft had been already before the
house, but they declined doing any thing in
it. It was extraordinary that these people
(hould come, session after fefTion, with their
petitions on this fubjeft. They had put
playhouses into their memorial ; but they
had nothing to do with them. In this
state, he believed, the legiflaturc had palled
a law authorizing them. It was altogeth
er a matter of state policy. The whole pe
tition wass indeed, unneceflarv. The only
objeft seemed to be to sow difTetition. A
petition could not come there touching any
fubjeft on whiph they had power to aft,
which he (hould not be in favour of com
mitting ; but this thing being wroDg in it
ffrlf it was needless to commit it, as no (In
gle purpose could be anfweredby it.
Mr. Al len was in favour of a second
reading and committal. He did not know
that no good could arise from such a pro
ceeding. He wished tlhJe to confidcr the
matter. He had ariotfier rdifort against get
ting rid of this business. When the debate
upon this question came to be faithfully re
ported, it might Be said that the Society of
Quakers had been found guilty of such foul
conduft, that thtir petition to the house
had been throwu under the table. Another
reason. Last summer, along with other
■ft rangers, he went to fee the new gaol of
this where he was (hewn a man who
had been a manumitted (lave ; but after be
ing free twenty years, he was apprehended
under the fugitive law, and was there impri
soned. If this were so, it was n#Ceffary that
this law (hould be revised. He hoped,
therefore, the petition might be committed,
and that this evil might be remedied. At
all events, he truftcd the petition would not
be-rejected, as it would be highly difrepeft
ful to a society of men reveted by every
man, who set value upon virtue and ''integ
rity.
Mr. Livingston said, if he could be
lieve that the petfons who presented this pe
tition were of the defcrfption which they
had been reprffertted ; thai they endeavour
ed to raise infurre&ions in pne part of the
country, and pntftifed • robbery in another,
he (hould not b# inclined : to pay much ref
peft to them. Bat he dM Hot believe these
charges; he believed them lndiferiminately
made and unfounded. It was pollible that
a member of this community, as well as of
any other, tnight b« of this description ;
but as against the body, he knew the Charg
es were unworthily made. He was ac
quainted with many of these persons in those
dates where they were mart numerous, and
he was certain they did not deftrve the cha
rafter given them. Therefore, as the mat
ter refpefted the petitioners, the petition
ought not to be thrown under tie table. Let
us now, said he, examine the reqUest, and fee
whether it be so improper and impraftica
ble, as to make us fay, on its filft reading,
we have heard enough. Why do (hey a(k ?
They fay a certain number ef citizens are
deprived of what belongs to them ; and can
we fay we will not grant relief ? No, said
he, we cannot, before the business is enquir
ed into, as it would be aftisg unlike the le
giflaturc of a great nation. If they said this
application was so improper as not to be
committed, what did they fay to their pre
deceflors -who fat in thatltoufe a few months
ago, who not only received an application
of a similar kind, but a committee reported
in its favour. They said, universal emanci
pation is not in oirr ]so\ver ; but the evil is
one for which a partial remedy may be pro
vided. The want of time only prevented
its being afted tipon. This was an objeft
upon which they 1 might at lead debate ; he
could not fay whether they could afford a re
,medy, or not. His owr. impreflions were
they cou Id not ; but he yould not fay they
never could. He did not think he (hould do
the duty which he was sent there to do, by
faying so ; which was to follow the diftates
of a sober judgment, after fafts were fairly
and fully stated. He thought it best to
follow the usual course, by appointing a
committee, who would examine the mat
ter, and report what was best to be done,
which the house could agree to, or not, as
they thought proper. Hethoughtit would
be for the advantage of those state« most in<-
terefted in the question, that it (hould be
fully difenfted and difpafllonately decided
upon ; for so J»i}g as the petitions of these
persons were neglefted,<ir : treated with con
tempt, so long wovrld they conceive tficy
were unjuitly treated, <iod n fcoiatiriue their
applicatiohs for redress. Mr 1 . L. said there
were a number of general refleftions con
tained in the memorial upon the grbwth <sf
vice and immorality, to th 6 fu]6priffion of
which he did not fee that the power of Con
gress extended. They pattituEMyJMJfttkd'
at the eftablilhmert of play-houses ; but it
might be remarked, that these gentlemen,
so averse to the eftablifhmerit of play-houses,
have not written their memorial without
borrowing language • from them, as they
term the evils tvhicw they (peak of a terrible
■trsgedj. . '
Mr. Isaac Parker was of opinion with
thegentleman from Peftitfylyani.a (Mr. Galla
tin) with refpeft to the disposal of peti
tions ; but it appeared to him that the fub
jeft matter of all petitions (hould be within
the view and authority of the house ; if not,
to refer them, would certainly be a waste
of time. He had attended to the petition,
and he did not tliifik there was a single ob
ject upon which it was in their powerto act.
Nothing was praved for. The petitioners
speak 6? the slave trade and in general terms
On the immorality of the times as injurious
to the state ps society, and wiili some means
(nay be taken c,o present the growth of
them. To refer a petition of this fort", there
fore, to a committee, could anfvver no pur
pose. He did not think they were more
obliged to take tip the business, than if thty
had read the address in a news-paper.
Mr. Bayard said, it might be imagined,
from the anxiety and warmth of gentlemen,
I that the question before them was, wheth-
I er slavery (hould or (liould not be aboliihed.
The present was however very remote from
such a queftioß, as it was merely whether
a memorial (hould be read a feiond titne.—
The contents of this memorial, he said,
were right or wrong, reasonable or ttnrea
fonable ; if right, it was proper it (hould
go to a committee ; andif wrong, if so clear
ly absurd as it had been represented, where
would be the evil of a reference for a report
thereon. He did not like things to be de
cided in the moment of paflion, but from
the fulleft consideration. In some coun
tries, they knew persons accused of crimes
were condemned without a hearing : but
there could be but one sentiment as to the
injustice of such a proceeding. There could
i be 110 objeftion, therefore, upon general
' principles, to the reference of this petition.
But it was said, it was not to be sent, be
cause of the general habits of this society.
, He there was nobody of men more
rcfpeftable ; they were obedient, and con
tributed chearfully \ to the fupporc of go
vernment ; and either politically, or civilly
speaking, as few crimes could be imputed to
that body as to any other.—This memorial,
he said, had been treated as coming from an
abolition society ; it was a memorial of the
general fnrttihg of the people called Qua
kers ; andifonly out of refpeftto that body,
it ought tobe referred. But it wasfaid, it did
not contain matter upon which the house
could aft. Gentlemen feemtdnot tohave at
tended to the fubjeft matter of the petition.
He did not believe that the house had the
power to manumit (laves ; but he believed
there was not a word in the petition which
had a reference to slavery. The petitioners
state, indeed, that a number of negroes, not
Haves (for negroes may be free) as having
been taken again into slavery, after they had
been freed by their matters. He wished td
know whether the house had not jurisdic
tion over this matter ? He was warranted by
the eonftitution in faying they had ) because
that instrument fays, that no state (hall
make ex post fafto4a*vs. It belonged to
that house therefore, to fee that the coufti
tution was refpefted, as it could not be ex
pefted from the justice of the individual
tlates, that they would repeal such lawc. It
rested, therefore, with the government of the
United States to do it. Mr. B- read the
clause of the eonftitution touching this mat
ter, and concluded by reminding the house,
that this was not an ultimate decision, but
merely a reference.
Mr. Jos I a h Parker said, he wa-salways
inclined to lend a favorable ear to petition
ers of every kind ; but when any memorial
was prefcnted to the -house contrary to the
uature of the government, he (hould consent
•to its lying en the table, or under it -No
one, he said, could fay they had a right to
legislate refpefting the proceedings of any
individual state; they, therefore, had uo
power to decide on the conduft of the citi
zens of N. Carolina in the matter complain
ed of.—Petitions h'.d frequently come from
Quakers, and others, on this fubjeft, where
as this government had nothing to do with
negro slavery, except that they might lay a
tax upon the importation of flave6. He
recollefted, when the fubjeft was brought
before the house in the firft congress held, at
New-Yoik, wishing to put a stop to the flavt
trade, as niiich as possible, being a friend to
liberty, he took every step in his power, and
brought for ward-a proposition for laying a
tax of ten dollars upon every slave imported.
It was not agreed to ; but there was only
one state (Georgia) in which the importa
tion of (laves was admitted. Since theeftab
lilhment of this government, Mr. P. said,
the situation of (laves was much ameliorated,
and any interference now njight have the
effeft to make their mailers more severe.
He knew of no part of the eonftitution
which gave them power over horse racing
and cock fighting ; nor could they inter
fere with rtfpeft to play houses ; and where
they scad no right to legislate, they had no
right to speak at all. As the feflion had
begun harmoniously, he hoped that harmo
ny would not l?e broken in upon by such ap
plications as the present. Mr. P. produc
ed a precedent from the journals of. 17.92,
where a memorial of Warner Mifflin, a
Quaker, after being read, was ordered to.lie
on the table, and two days afterwards re
turned to the memorialist.
Mr. Nicholas felt as much as other gen
tlemerf from the Southern States on the fuhj
jeftof-the present petition, but his feelings
did not produce the fame tffefts. fie was
not afraid of an interference from the United
Stater, with their pfMncrly, nor of any in
vestigations or difcuflions refpefting it. He,
believed it would .be to the honor of the peo
! pie holding property in Slaves, that the
! 'bufi'nefs (honld be look *d into. He thought
; inch an enquiry, would rather ft cure than
iiijure their property. He did not think,
it was the incereil of Slave-holders to cover
improper practices.' He waa fatisfied, that
in tilt part, of tlx; country wheie he lived,
there was no disposition to protest injuries
—no disposition to rejeft an enquiry, pr to
refufe to underftaud a complaint. They
had been told that the state of Negroes,
wKcft cases were mentioned is the Metnor
ial, might have been produced hy, Fugi
tive Law ; they had before heard thut this
law had operated mifchievioufly. ,< It ought
therefore to be enquired into. On enquiry
Mr. N. said, it would not be found the
fault of the Southern States, that Slavery
was tolerated, but their misfortune ; but to
liberate their Slaves at once, would be to
a£l like Madmen ; it would be to injure all
parts of the United States as well as those
who possess Slaves. It was their duty, how
ever to remedy evils; they were unfortun
ately placed in a situation which obliged
them to hold Slavr3, but they did not wish
to extend the mifchief. He (hould, indeed,
be lorry, if his possessing property of this
kind, obliged him to cover the violation of
another man's right; if this werfc the cafe,
he should think /t necefTary that his proper
ty should be taken from him. He did not
think it neceflary, and he doubted not, if a
fair investigation took place, that this kind
of property would be brought into the fito
"atioo in which every man of sense would
place it. He was firmly of an opinio®, that
to appear to be afraid of an enquiry would
do more harm to his property, than a fair
investigation. He trusted, therefore the
Petition would be committed.
Mr. Blount hoped this memorial would
not be committed. As this was not the firft
time the Society of Qiiakers had com ■ for
ward with Petitions to the House, seeming
ly with no other view than to fix an odi-um
on the State of N. Carolina, he thought it
his duty positively to contradift a faft ftatcd
in this memorial. It was Hated that 134
persons set free from slavery in N. Carolina',
had been fines enflavedby cruel retrospec
tive, or ex poll fadto laws; they alledged
that certain members of their society - had
done what no person was permitted to do.
Mr. B. read part of a law of N. Carolina,
dating,««that 110 Negro or Mulatto Slave
(hall be set free, except for meritorious ser
vices, acknowledged by a licence of the
Court ; and when any person (hall be set
free contrary to this law, he may be fsized
and fold as a slave," See. He also read a
clause from another law palled afterwards,
ftatiog, that feyeral persons having set at
liberty their (laves contrary to law, and per
sons having taken up and fold them, are
doubtful of their validity of the sale, and
that this law is pafied to do away all doubts
of such validity. Mr. B. said, these ex
tracts proved the assertion untrue.
Mr. Gordon lamented that this dis
cussion had .taken place, as it was certain
| that wherever interest is concerned, some
degree of warmth will be produced ; and
when a petition was brought forward which
might affe£t the property of many gentle
men in this hqufe, and their constituents, it
could not be expc&ed they would hear it
with the fame calmuefs with persons wholly
unconcerned about it. He said he had at
tended to every thing which had been said
upon the occasion. All that had been ad
vanced in favor of the second reading of the
petition, was, the rcfpe£iability of the per
sons prefentiiig it, the opinion that would b«
entertained of the petitioner* if their petiti
on was not referred, and the merits of the
petition itfelf. With refped ttf the perfor.s
of the petitioners, he felt inclined to- do
them every justice; but he did not think
this any reason for aft in g upon their memo
rial, iinlefj some good consequence could a
-1 rife from it, any more than if they were the
vilest persons on earth. As to the opinion
that might be entertained out of doors, if
, the petition was not examined, he was not
afraid that the citizens of the United S-.atcs
would believe the house could be so far loft
| to its duty as not to look into a quedion of
tiiis kind, but that it would be conceived,
! if rejected that they had nothing to do with
j it. The ojher reason, the only material
| one, was .as to the merits of the petition.
I The gentleman from Delaware (Mr. Bay
| ard,) who had examined the business with
much cooluefs and ability, had dated that a
certain ex pod fadto law of N. Carolina had
occasioned grievances. Admitting there
was such a law, what could this house do ?
Could they pass a law declaring the law of
N. Carolina null* and void. There would
be no utility in this; but if there'was a law
in N. Carolina that violated theconftitution,
there was a clear remedy in the law .which
organizes the judicial depaitment of the U
nited States, in which it is said, if any law
of an individual State interferes with the
law of the United States, a person has a
right to take advantage of the law of the
United States. I here was -no neceflity,
therefore, to call upon Congress for a re
medy against this law. Indeed, he saw no
thing in this Memorial which called for their
interference, an4he was therefore againlt a
reference, as a fa.ither difeuffion of it would
only produce uneafiuefs in certain paVts 6f
the U. States, without producing any good.
Mr. Rutlf.doe observed, that notwith
standing all that had been said, conGdering
the present extraordinary date of the Welt-
India islands and of Europe, he (liould in!
silt, that " ftjicicnt for the day is tie evil
thereof?' and that thtv oughtto (hut their
door againlt any thing which had a leaden,
cy to produce the like confulion in this conn
try. If this wer? not done, the confidence
of a great part of Union in the general
{jovemment would be weakened. In the
fouiljern dates, where most of their property
cor.lifted of (laves, and where the reit way of
no value without them, there w&s alrfrady a
prejudice esilting that the northern and
«a!teru Kates were inftilieal to this kind <.i
property, tnough they were bound by the
constitution from an interfered With it -
but when they heard of the house giving
countenance to a petitipn like'the pWiJsnt
it would increase their uneaGnefs. He re
ferred to what had, fallen from the gentleman
from Delaware, refpe&ing fx poll tafto laws
and thought a ceurt of juftiee the proper
tribunal to fettle the hufinefs. Mr. R.
he was indisposed, notvrithftaridlngtheiiLp, .
nogyrics which had been patted upon tiu
body of Quakers, to withdraw the cenfurts
he had caff upon them. The gentleman
fiom New-York lud doubted the gjiargeswhich lie had produced, and fa-id such things
could never be atteWp;:d by the body. It
was true, they d;d not come in a body into
his lodging .to seduce his servant, but indi
viduals did it. But he alktd, do these
men come here in a body ? Because they
believe that their presence will give more
weight to their petition ; so that they ap
peared in bodies, or as individuals, to ati
fwer their purposes. Gentlemen had charg
ed the oppofers of the petition with heat ;
he thought there was as much heat on one
fide as the other.
Mr. Edmund d d not 'believe there wa3
any real ground ofirritation in this queflion;
as no gentleman could suppose, they were
about to do any thing which was either un
cqn?National, or which would affedt their
property. Whether the persons who pre
sented the memorial are virtuous or vicious,
was of no consequence, since judice was due
to both clalTet of men. They had brought
a petition before them, and they ought to
eonfiderit. It was addressed to their hon
eflry or justice ; if the fafts were claims up
on their honesty or justice, they should be
attended to ; and not only attended to, but
if possible, relief granted.—lt was dated,
that there were a number of persons held in
bondage who were justly entitled to liberty.
This faft called for examinatiou ; and a
queflion arose, if it were eflablifhed, wheth
er that house could afford redress. A gen
tleman from N. Carolina (Mr. Blount) had
stated that the faft was not true ; it was
certainly therefore worth while to beetiquir
ed into. Another gentleman had said, if
the faft were as stated, they had no power
to aft ; and a third was of opinion that, by
the constitution, redress might be afforded.
This diversity of opinion (hewed the neces
sity of an invedigation of the fubjeft, in or
der to determine the jurifdiftion of the
house. Ht wilhed it for another reason.
It had been dated, that if this petition were
/attended to, it would open adoor to faftion
and' mifchief. Can'it have this effeft ? These
peop'e bring forward a petition dating a
number of fafts ; they certainly do not
come forward for the mere design of ex
citing disorder in any quarter. If the
house fay they will throw their petition
under the table, would rot such treatment
give the faftious some ground of clam
pur by which to sow difTentioi ? But
if, on the contrary, they coolly looked
into the petition, and reported thereon, (
would it not stop the mouths of these
people ? It certainly would ; fincc they (
■could not then fay common judice 1 was j
refufed to the petitioners. Again, hav
ing once investigated the fubjeft fully, (
if petitions of a similar kind {hould here- ,
after come forward, it could be reafona- .
bly said, " this matter has already been ,
taken up and fully decided upon, and, |
therefore, we will not again go into it." ,
Until this was done, tl|e faftious would
have cause of complaint.
Mr. Blount said, several gentlemen who (
had spoken on this fubjeft seemed to express (
themselves as if they believed there was no
punishment for persons reducing to Slavery (
persons who hod been manumitted. He j
read an extraft from a law passed in 1779, (
in N. Carolina, by which the punifliment of
• death is awarded againd fueh an offence.
Mr. Macon read the proceedings of the
House on the petition refpefting the kid- ,
napping of Negroes, in order to (hew that (
the Gentlemen from New-York (Mr. Liv- ■
ingdon) had mis-stated issue of that business
the lad report on the fubjeft was, that it | f
would be bed to leave the regulation of jht
business to the Legislatures of the several ,
dates. Mr. M. allowed that his refleftion ,
upon the whole body of Quakers was too ',
general, and he had no hesitation in retrain
ing it—but he believed a number of them
jvere guilty of the charges btonght againd
them by the gentlemen from S. Carolina. f
Mr. TuaTcbir said, if, when the motion *ai
firfl made he had tern sgninftit, from what had 11
fallen from gmtlemen on the fubjrft, lie (hould 0
now vote In favor of it-'for, notwithstanding ii
they oppof#d the focond r ailing of the peti-ion, c
they were filing off in fqoad* to read it, and ready 1
to fijlt for a Ct;ht ol it. He believed, therefore, ,
they had some relfons for opposing the fceord
r;ading, which did not appear. He referred to
wait had been said hy the gtntleman from N. Ca
rolina, as to th<: UA stated in the petition, and fai J
that notwithstanding the laws which he had read,
the fait might be true—but that this very doubt
about the fact was an additional reason for going
into the enquiry. Gentlemen had said, however
good and virtuous the petitioners might b», it
ought to have no effect upon the petition—if this
were true, he hoped when they wore reprcfentcd
as the intrjl of men, that representation was not ■
meant to influence their decision on the queflion. n
Mr. T. could not conceive for what purpose thay J
were carried to Europe, to wittiefsthefceneswhich j
had taken plac't there for the Mt ten years. Wai
this, heafked, the stats offociety here ? If hetho't
j' 0 'if i t had the fainted resemblance of what was ai
taking placa there, he would fly from it to the ut- t(
termoft parts of the earth, and there make his ha- c
bitation. Mr. T. wilhilhed an enquiry to take
pl ic< . there was a part of the United States in
which (livery was tolerated —some of the
from those parts thought it not right—there was bt
«'her parts g£ the Union who disclaimed it. These tk
two ompofing principles were like two oppofitc. ft
powers in Mechanifin, which produced reft—but .
the more frequently thd fubjea wi, looked into, .
the more mitigated would be its effefls, tn
Mr. Bayakd went into a judication of what Jt,
'he had before, advanced with refped to its being t j
within the ji.rifdiition of the house to afford a n
rcmrdv with refoeA to the expoft fadto law com
ulaified of, 'and 'infifled that, without fom« such
intsrferenct, perfens might be in a situation in ">
which they could grtno redress. Mr. B. cnnclud- a
ed by faying. thut flints-men knew little qthxunan t[
nature who thought to f.lcnce thrfe pejitipnp by m
contemptoous tteitmAt, and f lulded to -he in-
Attapcc which hod been ftewn thent »tth ou
totak'r<A>f oaths. ,
Mr "suit* wa(h«d fof>n explanation pn the
fubiea of law ' th ° u « h th * con " cj
ftitotion of the United States could lu v ve no pow- f
cr over lawipaffed befote it existed. He was of J
opinien this petition ought to be r-ferred, a» it
was prtfiAted in a jefpeflful form, and by a res- | e%
peel able body of men— \ body of men so refpec- <v,
tab'e that their -wtrd was equal to the eath of oth
er m-n He thought also, that a fair and can.iid
decision would prevent future firflilar applications.
Because f»me few man had att.'».pted to rftlude
the forvotts gentlemen it ovgisi not to !•« she ±>
eround t.f a refleaiwi upon the whi.h feorfv. The ol
centlrtiUM from Fcnrfylvania had fatd thut the.
manumiflien law of that (late had done no harm
to property of this kind—that he denied ;he be- ( v
gs ] jkted it had raiie®airc,'tKj -"...reainthe neigh
it b . onn <t Slates unhappjr m.thHr fi'-u had'
[y &iv-n thsii- mailer. uueilirlc.'fs.
j. Mr. VsNAßti h.ivt rifoii, Tiadit hot
b " ntk " h e wilhed tot miftaken notion
le of difrefpffl that was attached td ordering a peti
ey ton 50 lie up 5 n the table. Wh-n a petition was
re and read, and no matter foan 1 in it upon
which the house could ail, the proper mode of
r disposing of it was to or.icr it to lie on the table
t - where every mcmScr could have rccourfe to it,
?- a "d could call it up whenever hepleafed. This
; was not difrcfpeilful, and it would give members
lie B , bct . ter opportunity of becoming acquaintoi
with it than, a fecoiad reading, which the gentje
nian from Massachusetts (nbtvvithfiandir.g his at
-33 Jcnspt at wit on the fubje.9;) Mew wis merely .1
n; (11 ttcr O. form, the firfl wortis only being re
re jieated.—.',Vith refpeA to ths society from vvh-nte
p et ition came, he rcfpedled tiUj',l as rnu , :. t i a<
j r ' in s o'her society of the United States—
frjfented a petition upon wjirth tlie Konie could
®Ot at£l, he should be for its lyl:i;> *l,lO. > the tajie
s, Mr. Goanov defended what he had before af
le , ferted refpe&ing the law tirganiting the judiciary
it t
j Srifing from a state law, i:i oppofifioa tn th«gen
tleman from Delaware, lie read the law at length.
'• The que/lion was taken fur a fecntid reading of
>- the petitisn, and cairriaj, 53 votes being in the
IC aflirmat«v<
Gallatin moved that it be referred to a
I felea Commit 'ee.
'• Mr. COl r wished it to be referred to the com
n mit'ee of the whole, to vvhom was referred th pe
tition on the fubjea of kidnapping negroes, ike
a Mr Rutledge thought a ftlta eommittee
_ would bed as flage plays, cock-fighting, horfe
racing, and other evils, would, of cayrft, i>e confi
deicd.
d Ihe queOion for reference to a felea committee
s was put »tid carried, 59 members being: ir. the af
firmative.
f five members being jjreed upon to form the
committee, the fptaker named Mc'7rs. £
r Nicholas, Dana, Schureman, and 8. Smith, for the
C purpose. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, DEC. I.
The r embers ol the house were this day affem
_ bled a« uKal, when the clerk informed th. m that
he had heard from a member of the fcrate that
;he fpc.ik"! was ihdifpofed, so much so, that h 1
• avas not able to communists his mdifpolition to
: the house fn writing.
1 Mr. Dent said, thi« heir.c the he (tould
. move that the order for tTiisTTay p,u7-
poned till Monday.
Which ruction being agreed to, the clerk, on
motion, adjourned the house till Monday morning,
• at 11 o'clock.
' 1-^
PORTLAND, (Maine) Nov. 20.
Gorham, Nov. I, 1797.
On the 24th ult. the independent com
. P an 7of cavalry, commanded by capt. Far
ntim, and the company of Foot, comman
| ded by capt. Warren, met at Gorham cor
ner for the purpose of drafting their quota
of men, as direfted by law. The geuerof
ity and patriotism however, of the soldiers,
prevented the necelfity Capt. Farnum's
companyunanimoufly did himandthemfclve«
the honor of turning out voluntarily ; and
a mare than fufficient number of capt. War
ren's company condufted in th« fame latida
ble manner. With such a noble and spirited
militia, what has our couhtry to fear ?
" Died at Freeport, the present week,
three of the four amiable and promising
children of Mr. Jacob White, viz. Polly,
aged 18, Hannah, aged 17, and Jacob, a
ged 1 3 years, of a putrid fore throat. Al
so, SJifs Lydia Small, of the fame fatal dif
. order, aged 24 years."
HJRRISBURGH, Nov. 21
On Saturday loft, capt. Connelly's artillery
company met at their usual place of f arade in
this town. The captain addrejfed the company
in a Jlyle of real patriotism, in which he plainly
evinced the nacejfity and virtue offupporting the
rights end lams of our country in time of dan
ger. In conference, -jue hear, all the members
present, except tne, voluntarily ejfcredUhem
fcives as a part of the quota to be furnilhed by
thisJlate. J J J
C ARLISLE, November 22.
On the 14th injlant, arrived at the Bar
racks, at this place, a Company of Artillery un
der the command of Licutemant Marfchalk—
on Thursday the whole of the troops about ioo
in number marched from the barracks under fthe
command of Lieut. John Steele, for Pittjburgh
from whence it is expeSed they will descend the
Oiio,for Natchez.
Xj)e (gazette. ,
PHILADELPHIA, v
SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 1. j
■ T-= 1
This day in the Supreme Court of Oyer I
and Terminer, fentenee of death was pro- i
nounced by the Chief Judice on Owefi O* 1
Hara, convitied of wilful murder of the ;
fird degree. 1
In the cafeolßachc versus Humphreys for
an assault and battery, the defendant wis sen
tenced to pay a fine of fifty dollars and (
co?ts. m t
Thursday a curious bet mas determined, ]
between two Butchers of High Jlreet Market '
the one having undertook to carry the other on c
his back to Chester, a diflance of fifteen miles, (
in thirteen hours and a half At fix 0' clock r
in the morning, the carrier with his bnrthan {
flartedfrom the Court House, accompanied by j
the umpires and a number offpedators, they
flopped at Gray's Ferry a Jhort time, and at r
liarby to brtakfajl which dclaycdihcm twenty ;
minutes and at rived at Kerlin's in Chejler at
a quarter pajl one—having with ease complea- j
ted the journey if! fe-ven hoars and fifteen mi- (
miter.'—Besides the original bet, which was d
but fifty dollars, there were others depend- r
ing to g considerable amount.
The carrier is a man of Jfly two years
of age and weight 126 pounds; the rider t
forty stye and weighed 136. j
They both returned to th: city in th
evening in good health and spirits feeming e ]j
very little fatigued. c
, o
Married, on Tuesday lad,' by the Right g
Revemed Dr. White, Doftor William £
Bache, to Miss Catharine Widar, both n
of this city. jj
General Kofciufko, arrived in town on h
Wednesday from New Brunfwick. ( h
1- To the Printers 'of the Connecticut Courant,
J GENTLEMEN,
)t „ ' on £ cr ago than when the United
States were iti a prosperous fituitiorl rela
i tive to foreign connexions, it was predicted
,s ky the friends to government,' that the pre
nf v al«nce of French liberty and equality'-prin-
Cip! ? in this country, would prove its ruin.
, (This liberty and is better known
is here, by either of the terms, " jacobinism,"
J "democracy," cr "anarchy.") At thr.t
pe*io& < Jl people, but such as were
:• were di'fpofed to
a tW-a'MlwJe'pi-ediaions is chimerical —'or, at
:- the wfei't, if they were ever to be verified,
t it would nut be in their day—but at fume
_ very remote period. The found of liberty
i " rneci 't a for'c : e, th'n,; of the Bafi
lilkj capable duJaifg to admira
tion, and the ear of rational moderation, to
f the extreme of eiithufiafm These
r people having enjoyed so great prosperity
under that liberty which the federal canjlihi
f tioA guarantees to them, and not having at
tended to the wide difference which exiils
between the vaunted French liberty, and
the liberty of the United States, they have
gieedily swallowed thf- found for the reali
. ty, and, perhaps, have entertained a jealou
sy of all those whose view? of tha i'ubjedt
: were not correspondent with their o\+n.
Hence they have listened, with perfect cre
dulity, to the vociferous declamations of am
-5 bitious^deroagogues—have given full faith
to alltieir'pffertiont— have been thus induc
ed to believe that 'they were the only true pa
triots—thal.the federal part of the inhabit
antjofthe United States were British a-
—friends to monarchy—
enenTies of the " people"—and combining
in characters ( very thing which is o
dious in society, and hoflile to a republican
government : while they themselves were im
maculate, 8c but one degree fliort of angelic
perfection. Tin's facility of being imposed
upon by such dtiigning men, has its origin
among tliat class of people of which I am
fpcaking, in their virtuous attachment to
real liberty—in their want of repaion until
others it—in their jraloufy for their
own rights, which is always ready to fol
low any direftion that is given it—and in an
honest zeal for others, that they may enjoy
the fame ble flings which are enjoyed by
themfel/es. For a time this defenption ©f
people will be born away with the ardency
of their feelings. But when their zeal has
had time to cool—-and reflection begins to
rcfume its power, they will discover their
error, and gradually fettle down into the
right way ; regretting their precipitate fol
ly, and rejoicing at their escape—is they are
fortunate enough to escape. They will then
doubly execrate the persons who have given
them the alaim, and their confidence be
comes more firmly riveted in those who were
once the odj'pus obje£t« of their diftraft
They adt just like the people of an honest
neighbourhood, who, when they hear a
falfe alarm of fire, hastily seek for the build
ing which it endangered, that they may aid
their brethren in diltrtfs ; but when they
find that no fire has been kindled, and that
the alarm was a falfe one,.their anxiety to
relieve their diftrtflad neighbour, becomes
inflantly converted into a spirit bf vengeance
toward the person who bad thus imposed
upon their quietude.
The United States contain many people
of t|his d.cfcription, and, unfortunately, they
n!fo contain many designing men, who have
been long imposing upon them. Thoy have
cried fire—and the people have run—but,
thank God, they have at length, found that
no fiie was kindled, except that which was
kindled by those who gave the, alarm. And
since it has become apparent, that these
meu, who called themselves the " men of the
people" republicans—democrats—patri
ots—the friends of liberty and France—
who, on the contrary have been using eve
ry artifice which interest could prompt to,
and ingenuity suggest, to enlist the people's
zeal 011 their fide—to make them jealous
and diftruftful of their choftn rulers—and,
in fair wards, so to blind them, tha L they
themselves may ride them up to the fu.nmit
of what their real objedt is—that it is not,
in truth, any regard for the intereftsof their
fellow-citizens which) has actuated them—
that it is not any real loije ft>r liberty, any ,
further than these objedts may become in
strumental in effecting their own political 1
purposes ; the people, who once placed con- ,
fidence in them, arc beginning to forfake
them—they are dropping from them one
after another, until, eventually jhey. will be 1
left deflitute of any support, but that which 1
arises from an agreement among themselves, ,
" mutually to support each other."
In Connecticut this is already true to a '
great degree. The support lately given to <
democracy, by the freemen, was coinpara- <
tively small ; and, if they continue to exer- 1
cife that wisdom in future, which they late- •
ly evinced, it will shortly bedome extinCt. <
The fame is heginningto bethecafe through- 1
out New-England. Democratic Governors, '
dying - , resigning, or Hegledtld by the free- >
men, are replaced by federal men ; jacobin t
fenatqrs, are omitted for men of opposite
principle?-—and, at the last eleCtion of re
presentatives in Congress, we saw many new
members returned, which threw a majority
iHto the Governmental stale.
Although the counity lifts fuffei"«d much
iu cgnfequencc of the artifice mid intrigues
of the ielf-prociaiißed " patriot? ;" and
although the predi&iqns.Qf ruin whiph were .!
noticed in the beginning of thii paper were
near to being verified ; yet the people have j
got'ten their eyes opened to the danger, and
they wiljytt.fave their government and coun
trJ' -noO fp isyfot£ s
Many. jjfltliculsts stave confpircd to en
lighten the people. They have seen the in
confiftefncy of the profeffions and characters I
of the Freneh in the United
States. They have seen how frde and per
fidious ehe French hav.e bten to our govern* t
ment—how falfe r and perfidious they have
been other governments—that while they
have for liberty, they
have in truth been fighting for conqucft and
i f'under. They have seen the'djipiiciiy of
j Thomas Jefferlon, who is at the head of de
a moeracy in the United States'; a'H'd they
- have obfervjd, how p'crfeCtly the coridudt of
1 the otlrer French partisans has tallied, vyi't'i
- h's. They have seen many of the fame class
- of men enliiled on Jioard of French priva
teer;, to capture and , condemn American
1 vefiVls and property. The people of tKc
United States have had time to fee the con.
t duS of S^nliioriaX—of the Spanish minis.
i 'f —of Vidor Ilucruee and of those per
) £\>ii3 in this country, who have been loud
t in their praise. Judging, for them floes, of
, the merits of fnch people, and finding them
; far removed from honor or integrity, they
1 naturally co u'luded that those who approve
of their cpr.duCt, whether in this country
or in anojher, mud be of a similar character,
alike dtftitute of honour or integrity. The
convention between General To'ufTaint,
and Santhonax, and the Secretary's refuta
tion of the Spanish miaifter's charges against :
our government, will not soon be forgot- I
ten. They are referred to the true source
French perfidy—and this, in the (tile of dur
" patriots," is " difinierefted friendfhip
That friendfhip which should render the
two republics inseparable. But the picture
of France is too horrid to ever, permanently
charm the feelings of any but true democrts
or jacobins; and wherever there is a tho
rough bred jacobin, there, (mark it my fel
low-citizens) there is at heart, a genuine
tyrant. And, generally, this is compara
tively but a small blemish in his character.
The word democrat, in modern phrase, de
notes every thing that is inimical to the go
vernments both of God and men. I submit
jhe quellion to your reader, if this aflertion
does not accord with their own knowledge.
And fiich, gentlemen, are the men, of all |
the men in the world, who have been deem
ed, by many in this country, worthy to be
entrufled with our dearest rights; worthy
of our unlimited confidence! The
only answer which I know is, because they
themselves fay so.
Such men have long strove, and striven
hard, to throw this country into such a fitn
ation svith respeCt to France* at that they
might themselves engage in the hufinefs of
privateering ; either upon the property of
our enemies, provided they could get ut
conneCtcd in the war with France—or upon
our own property, if the French were dis
posed to treat us in an unfriendly manner.
In either cafe, the wishes of the " patriots"
are gratified ; but, unfortunately for my
fellow-citizens, the latter is the cafe ; and
it has been induced, principally, by the in
fluence and falfehoodof our " patriots'." In
stead of patriots we now behold them pica
roons. Instead of honest Americans, they
have become pirates upon American prop
erty. Since the mask is rent asunder, in
stead of that sincere wish to uphold our. own
government, which they have incessantly
proclaimed, we fee them treacherously prac
tising, by every wicked artifice, to destroy
it—to render it subordinate to the promo
tion of felf-interell, and deeming the immo- 1
lalion of their own nation's liberty, profer
ity, and peace, but a small facrifice, when- \
held in competition with personal emolu- <
ment. '
Such, gentlemen, is the real character of -
" democrats"—a cbara&cr which cannot
be too much detested—a charaCter which
the freedom of the United States will shun
as they wnuld shun pestilential contagion, -
if they intend to preserve the blelfings which f
they now enjoy. '
Perhaps a more favorable time thai! the '
present, e.innot be improved to imprefsthis
fentimcnt strongly upon the minds of the <
freemen of Connecticut. fn a short time <
they are to vote for fix new candidates for 1
congress nomination. Perhaps, as the last '
euort of jacobinism in this state, the French
partisans here, will, like antichrist just he-
fore his destruCtion, make a desperate ftrug- t
gie to support their finking interest. What
direCtien that effort will take, it may be dif
ficult to conjeCtore. Perhaps it will con _
fift in supporting characters for the nomina
tion, which will never become popular, or
such as could not go to congress if they
were chosen ; and thus leave the way more f
clear for the speedy promotion of any fufpi- a
cious ptrfon who may at present be a-candi- -
date. But the freemen of ConneCti'sut, I
think, have gotten their eyes so well open
ed with regard to persons of doubtful poli- 1
tics, that they will be very cautious how
they fall in with such a plan. They will
bring forward other men whose known in- c
tcgrity is worthy of trust, and whose unva- it
rying attachment to the federal government 1
isevineed by their aSions, and not solely by p
their o<wu declarations, furnifhes indifputablc ic
evidenee, that they will not desert the flan- v
dard of their country, nor facrifice the in- y|
terefts of their own nation, to foreigners.
Such and such only, ought to be our candi- ri
dates, and fueh, I trust in God, they will be, ° !
if the free eleCtors of Connecticut consult
their own interest. Such men exist among
us, and the sagacity of the freemen will find
them out.
GUSTAVUS. ,
New-London County, Nor.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST. 4
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
CLEARED.
Ship Voltaire, liou-en, Hamburgh
Favourite, Thompson, Ditto
Brig Clarijfa, Brew!an, Amjlerdcrm
Gharlotte, Penrofc, Navanna <,
Betsey, Forreft, Aux Cayes »
Pilgrim, Pease, Cayenne f
Packet, Strong, Charlejlon '
William, Rathbone, R. IJland '
Sch'r Ranger, Shaw, Jacqmt c
Kitty, Green, Ctpe Francois
Fanny Bridget, Dunn, New-Tori
Sloop Mill River, Shockly, N. Providence (
Nancy, Waglam, Ntiv-Tork i
Freedom, Siorer, Woodbridg t
Sally, White, Norfolk
Thr (hip Fair American, capt. Tredwell,
.rllaft from Plymouth (Eng.) for Pii.lajJ.'
" pn, was spoke hit Monday oft Cap.- Her>-
y ry, all well.
>. r The above veflcl fa led from' London
•) oe.ptember 22.
*S ' -► >'' .
NO RFC) L K Ncv. 20.
n Saturday morning arrived herefalp R:h r,
c and Betsey, Capt. Nimo, of RUhmmd ;fl
■ was bound to Philadelphia from Bristol ( Err -
, land{ ■whic!^piaujte left the 26th Sept. and
- put t,l her- through dijlref, of weather.
; Ws—J" th: Britifb channel the
, Asia and B-'tfy was boarded by a French
1 privateer after a chafe pbout 75 hours ; but
f en cm. Nimo's paying eight guineas for the
"J h ji th f bought him to, and giving them fame
' P rov '*<* which, they said, they flood much in
, want of, he was allowed to proceed.
e November 25.
, On IVednefday arrived in town admira.
'j ' '" :d "P nt S andyeflerday. M. R. Lifion, his
t ; Britannic maj fly's minister- to the United
_ states, on a vtiil to col. Hamilton.
P oft lively the LdJI Night.
At O'Ellers's Room,
, On-SvTOKDAV EVENING, .December »,
MdTrs..CHALMERS «r WILLIAMSON,
, Wl " present the citizen* with a new species of
entertainment, called
The Tablet,
■ Or, JUST i sr TIME.
Readings, Recitations, and Songs, in 3 parti
PART 1.
Overture—Grand f ;-ar,o Forte, Mr. Carr.
Audrelp—Mr. Chalmers,
Song—Bailor', Hall, Mr. WiUianfon.
Collin'.''* Ode to Mulic, Mr. Chalmers.
' Sons; —Paddy O'Blarr ly, Mr. Williamfon.
P IRT If.
Sonata— Piano Forte, Mr. Carr.
Spirit of Coctradiiliou, a Comic Tale, Mr. Chal
tl:ers.
Scrg F.licn ; or the Richmond Primrose Girl.
Mr. Williamfon.
Spouting Club,and Dialogue betwten Garrlckand
a London laylor, Mr. Chalmers.
Sang—The Cottage in the drove, Mr. Williamfon.
PART HI.
Pot Pouri—Piajio Forte, Mr. Carr.
The Chace of the Hare, and Advice to jhe La
dies, from SomervilleandThompfon,
Mr, Chaltrierj.
' The Hare Hunt, or Virtue and Merit Mr.
Williamfon.
A paraphrase on Shak-fpcare's Seven Ages, re«i
tation, Mr Chalmers.
Song Nancy ; or, Ihe Sailor's Jouraal, Mr.
Williamfon.
Rom King, or MonfLur Tonfon, a Comic Tale,
Mr. Chahners.
Song—-The Hobbies, Mr. Williamfon.
£X Price of adm liion One Dollar Tickets
to 1)0 hadvat Ihe barof the hotel, at Carr'a MuGcal
Rupoutory, and at Carey's Book-flore, Markat
street
To begin at half pad fu o'clock precisely.
Particular attention will be paid tokecp theroom
"'arm. December 1
lhe City I>ancing Atlembly,
Is unavoidably portioned till the 14th isfl.
Dec. 1.
L 0 S 1, "~
YESTERDAY in Market, Chefnut, South Second,
Third, or Dick (Ireet, a fmill o>a' Red Mo
rocco Pocket Book, containing 2 Bar.k No e of Five
Dollars each, and one of Ten Dollars. As., a pa
per, the content! of whichare not recolle&ed. Who
ever will deliver it, wi h its coutentsto Mr. Jaincs
O'Ellers, at his Hotel, (hall receiv« Five Dollar* Re
ward .
Dg a "it.
Houie and Lots, in hordentown.
BE ROI.D, a handsome two !Wy House.
with the Lot on which it is treated, situated
-hnut the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The heufe is forty two
sett front, and in neat order. The lot contain*
one acre, and is one har.dred feet on the main
street, and extends with the fame brcarfrh toback
ftrtet. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly four
acres, feparatcd from the former by back ilrect
One third only of the purij»afe money will be re .
quired upon executing a deed, and lor the re
niainder, foch credit will be given as the purchaf"
er mayel.ufe. This property will be fold free »-
all incumbrances, and an indisputable title givenf
For farther particulars crqaire either. of Dr.
William Buiiies, residing in Uordintown, near,
the premises, who will (hew the fame, or ol'
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, no. 144, Market-street.
December 7.. jewtf
To he Sold, '
The time of a Negro Boy,
'.bout fifteen years of age, has leven years yet
to servo ; he is an excellent house fcrvant, adlivs
and healthy. Enquire of the Printer.
December i. j lvr
To be Sold at Public Venduej
(If not before disposed of at private sale)
ON Monday the firil day us Jinuary nex , at si*
o'clock in the evening, at tin- Coffee
Hcu'e. in Philadelphia, F Htv Thousand Nine Hun
dred and Tbifty-Ninc acres of LAND in Giecn
county, Commonwealth of Pcnnfylvani.i,on th» Wa
ters of Filh and Wheeling Creek, and tr., Mil; Rj n .
Tbefc lands arc fertile, well timbered and abound 111
coal ; they were Jlold ten years ago for <;s per acre,
patented early in 1787, except 3.700, which were pa
tented in 1792 ; the grea'eft part ot them were lui
vi-y. d -o 1783.
I hit traft isbetwren the Ohio and Mononjiahe'a,
very convenient to water carriage—about 19 miles from
the town ot Wilhington, and Irom 1 1 to 16 Irum tie
villages ofGreepfburgh and Wheeling. One fourth
of the pjrchal'e m mey is >0 be paid at'the time of
file t for 'he relidue a credit of one, t vo, and three
months will be eiven, on interefl and good security.
Dec. 1. ■
NEW THFATRF. • "
THE public arc refpsflfully informed,
that tfee Entertainments will commence for
the season, 011 MONDAY Evening next,
4th December.
Bj" Particulars will be expreded in fut'ire
adyertifemeots.
WIGNELL £s ■ REINAGLE.
December 1.
N O T I C K. :
A I.L p'-rfons concerned are hereby notified,
i V that the fnlfrrihej- intends to apply for a re
r.ewal of the undermentioned loft certificates <,f
StockintKe Bank of the United St.itss—He for
warded them under cover of a loner addrefle d to
fnhn Anfl. r.of London, by the ftrp Bacchus, cpr.
George, which left this port in June Ia it for Lo
don. But that ship having been captured or. hr
pillage and sent to France, the above letter and i;;-
closures have fai'ed in their deftinatiou.
Three rerti!icate«. vii/
Nos. 26325, 46326, 26327, each f r
four stares, dated January ift, 1797, a:
ifftied in the name of Henry Graca, of 1 vt
tenham Highcrofs, Great Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia i november 8. 3a „ vvSOR SALE— by the Subscribers,
An elegant afl'ortinent of Madrafs
HANDKERCHIEFS, by th^bal.-.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS,
nov at. § Penn-nreet. (f ,
FOR SALE, c
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS, : l
Madeira Wine, firft quality, in ft
pipes ci
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pipes m
Li/linn WINE, in pipes ar
NUTMEGS' } ofthe late!l im P ortation ' inkoxcs
Spanilh Wool, in Bales, suitable for Hatters.
Willings Sis Francis,
Penn-ftreet, 'No. it.
Nov. 1. w&stf
~ for sale, h
by the subscriber*, No. it, P«nn-{lrect,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges, h
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Conjijiing of
Baftas, of various qualities & prices t
Cofl.ies Puojuni Cloth»
SaiAhj ®uzz y do.
Humhums v Charconna Dorea
Blue qioth a Tanj.bs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls J
Mamoodys Checks f)
Maharagongcs Patna Hhl:f«.
Ginghams Mulmul do,
Guzzenas Bandannoss
Gurrahs Siflcrfoy
l'iniafcocs Choppa Romals
Salgatthys Sooty do. p
Gillie Romals Ptrfians of various colours £
Mock Pulicats
400 tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings & Francis. >
The Piece Goods -i
Of the Ganges arc now open and exposed to falest J
that commodious (lore the nerth weft corner of , \
Mnrket and Fourth ftr»ct. ! 1
LANDING, I
From on board thefiiip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, frem London, 1 j.
60 tons of the best clean Russia 1
hemp j 1
60 rafts of bottled BROWN STOUT. (
F orfiale by the fubferibers, No. 21, Penn-ftreet. j /
Willings tit Francis.
oa. 31. ' c
just arrived, '
From Pcrt-au-Piince, aad for Sale by the f#bfo(l
bers, No. SI, Pen«-ftr«ct,
hogfheads,"^
n tierces ( Prime Coffee
5*3 barrels ( 1
646 bags J \ t
Willings Iff Francis. <
xP 1 *- it. L_ '
FOR SALE, ir
Joseph Anthony .&f Co.
No. 5, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeauxßra*dy, id and 2d
proof, just landed
250 bales ps Bourbon cotton of afuperior quality
9 do. Surat, ' do
A quantity of heavy black peppar in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality
High proof Jamaica lpirits
Old London particular Madeira wine / In pip«s &
do. market do qr. cailw.
New England rum in hogftieads
Genuine Holland Giu in pipes
Claret in cases »
Spermaceti candles and drain d oil
Prime Boilon beef »
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half Imrrils
Do. Herring in do do
Bell Boston Mackarcl in barrels of the fall far*
New-England tow l : »«n
A few tons of Russia cordage
Ruflia feather beds
Clovtr and Timothy feed in -asks
Long whalc-bone
No i, 2, and 3, Boston fail duck
A few chests firft quality Hyson tea
Cardlina in whole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glass ware.
•N"vembcr 8. diw.
NOW LANDING,
k At South-ftrect Wharf,
The Cargo of the Ship Contord,
Captain Thompson, from Bmvia.
About 300 tonsyfirll qualify Java Coffee (the
'whole havinjr been leledled)
80 tons Java Sugar, in canillers and bags
10 legnrcs of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
FO* SALE Br
PETJER BLIGHT.
Who also offers For Sale,
Just landed from (hip Amity, from Jamaiea.
20® hhds Jamaica Sugar, and
170 do. do. Rum.
November 23'. t!6w
DANCING SCHOOL,
WILLIAM- M'DOUGALL prefsnts his
most refpe.Sful compliments to his form
er employers and the citizens in general, and re
turns his most gratefal thanks, for the very
bountiful encouragemeut he has expetienced for
these twenty-five years paH, takes this opportu- j
nity of in/orming them, that his school will be
open'd on Wedncfday the 23d instant, at hi»
Elegant Ball Room,
in Sotjth Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
To begin at 10 in the morning
for young ladies, and i in the evening for young
gentlemen.
gf Praflifing Balk will commence on Tues
day, 6th December, and be continued tvery
Tuesday, during the season.
NOV. 17. 23Wtf.
Mnjtcal Instrument Manufactory,
167, Arch-street.
TO THE LOT ERS OF HARMONY.
H A R P'E R,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
now ready for sale, a few of his new invented,
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedals,patent swell, fonopahant and French harp
flop, which for sensibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, Gmplicity and durability of conflru&ion, the
ftsperiority of which,he flatters himfelf, a single tri
al will convince the unprfjudiced judge—As they
are manufactured under his immediate infpeition,
of the very be*, seasoned materials, he can fell 011
reasonable terms for Casb.> Inftrummts repaired,
tuned, &c.
N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex
change for new.
ntvtmicr 18. sawlmo.
Alj Persons who are indebted to
theefyate of William fen.
delphia, deceased, ar« to make.speedy
payment; and those who have any demands a
-1 gaini said estate, will plcafeto present them, pro
perly atcefted, to the fubferibers.
William Heylham, "1
Robert Heyjham. J- Executors.
Francis Bowes Say re, J (
THi-trxbcr 6. 2a\T4'.v
Thomas Randall, 1
hi, refpe&s to his Friends, and the
Public in general, informs them-tnat he has open id
an Office, athishoufe, No. 88, Spruce ftrect, for
•hepurpofeof tranfa»sling business in the line ot
CommuTion and Agncy, colle&ing rents and out- yc
Handing claims in any part of the United States -
He flatters hhnfclf, th.it from his long residence in p.
this country and a general knowledge of it, hisfcr-
cices trill be found worthy the no- ice of thof* who
may pl.'afe to confide to him the »nana*ene*t of /1
any cf their concerns.
fc. B. Security given where required. th
- nth mi) 14 ' _ 3tawtf , t h
D AN CING.
Mr. FRANCIS, fti
OF the New Theatre, reipt iliul! y informs the m
public, that hi: r.o longer to continue bi
his Dancing School in conjunction with Mr. Byrne, th
hut will open it separately early in December, and fii
hopes Hill to receive the aecullomed patronage with fli
which he has been honored, and which it will be A
liistonftant endeavor to defervc. ff
Private parties may be inflru&ed at his owu
house, No. 70, -north Eijhth ftrect. L
november 15. eot^
Wants a place,
AS a Wet Nurse, a young worr.an, who can
be well recommended. Inquire in Eleventh B
street, near Race-street. to v. 17. £
*eod t'-v . >'
A fourneyman Hair-DrelTer, j!
WHO is fuber and steady, and understands v
his business, may have immediate em- t1
ployment, on application to GEORGE AB- 5
BOTT, No. 9, Chefnut-ftteet. no-v- 17. 1,
eodiw. __ '
Thomas Herman Leuffer, J
North Fifth street, corner of North alley, No.
HAS FOR SALE, I
EXCELLENT red bourdeaux Wine inca&»«»nd
1, boxes, ft* years old (
White Graves Wine in eaflw
( TickUnburgs
I Ruflia Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck i
' I Bag Linen '
' Hcffians '
Diaper and Table Cloth i
j.Empty/ags - 1
Common German Cloth < i
. i An afTortment of black aolourad Ribbons '
j Fine German Laces 1
1 About twelve tons Ruflia clean Hemp 1
- Clover Seed i
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family use
Window Glaf. . Aug. 2, —nw
N O T 1 C E.
T""HE Stockholders of the Bank of the United
States, are informed that accerding to the
flatute of Incorporation a general Ele&ion for
twenty five will be held at the Bank
of the United States in the City of Philadelphia,
on Monday the lirft day of January next at ten
o'clock in the forenoon.
And purfaant to the Eleventh feflion of the
Bye Laws the Stockholders of the said Bank
arc hereby notified to aflemble in general Meet
d ing at the fame place on Tuesday the second
day of January next at five o'clock in the E
y vening.
By order of the Board of direffors,
G. SIMPSON, Calhier.
Second fundamental Article.
Not more than three fourths of tne Direilors
k in office, exclusive «f the President, fhallbe e-
Ugible for the next succeeding year, but the
Direflor who (hall be President at the time «f an
EleAion may alwayibe re-elefted.
Philadelphia, nov. 18. 1797- ftE
NOT! C E.
I* 70 holders of JAMES GREEN LEAF*/
and EDWARD FOX'S ! Engagements
IN consequence of'many having been prevent
i*l, from late unavoidable circumstances from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now inform them, they
are ready to iflue the fame to those who may ap
ply within sixty days, at No. S Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, will be canGdercd as re
linquishing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THOMAS W. FRANCI,
JOHN MILLER, JTJN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
r.ruember, 23. tuthfcfim.
lt French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. 110 Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who with to recur to the only
means of becoming perfect in the French Lan
guage,that he has just opened his Library, con
fining of upwards of Iljo volumes, the best cal
culated to afford either ufeful inftruilion, or plea
sure. The conditions, together *ith a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
in town. '
n. b. All translations from and into,rhe French,
Englifh and Spanish Languages, execit«J with ac
curacy and dispatch. coini nov- IS
,i, For Sale by the Subscriber,
■n- White Plattillas
e- Brown Hollands
ry White Sheetings
or Dowlafles
u- Silesia bordered Handkerchiefs
be Striped Siamoufes
bis Black Ribbons, No. 3 and 4
Glass Tumblers, and Looking GlafTes, in
n( j in cafei, &c. &c.
ng George Pennock.
ng november 6. eodjw
. ~ " FOR SALE,
£ By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front ftrcets,
_ A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Alfa,'a general alTortment of Tools,
y) Eilcs and Materials, consisting of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and forge work ; Bells, clock aad watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glasses, Pumice Stone, Emery,
l Rotten Stone, Cat Gut j bench, and tail
. S Vices; Turns, Pliers,Ohains,Seals, Keys, &c. &c.
kh *** Apprentices Wanted.
lr p november 3. ffc tul^
"f The Hiitory of Pennsylvania,
th . e By ROBERT PROUD,
lr " !Tg now in tire prels, and will be published,
A whh all convenient expedition, by ZfcCHA
01| RIA H* Pou Lson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
■ e( j Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
ex _ according to the printed proposals, until the
work is readv for the fubfcribcrs.
July fS. 2a wtf
to Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and eheaper than «ny other in
7 the City—
a" OF rARIOUS SIZES,
IO " Fi'om Bby 6 to 19 by 14,
t B-y tlie finale Box or Quantity, may be had at the
fto:e of the Subfcribcrj, uuuet of A ( rcb and Front
j*g iUcct,
James C. iy. SamuelW. Fiber.
Philadelphia, June 9, 1797.
To the Inhabitants of the United
States.
SINCE tin knowledge of medicine, none Us? ev-* f
er proved To aiienifhingly efficacious, io upi
verfully ellcemed, or to which the affli&ad with co
Rheunaatifms, Gout, Rheumaric Gout, Lumbago, p«
Palsy, Sprains, Bruises and Chilblaios, may look !>•<
for relief with so much confidence, as eb
Whitehead's ejfence of Mujlard^
This extraordinary Medicine very soon affords
the wished for relief, " even to the aged iu cases m
the m»ft desperate " For thefe,iubltantial seasons
iris patroniled by all ranks of people in England.
From the gteat number of communications con- .
ftantly received by Mr. Johnston, he is under the 0
neceflity (in laying then* before the world) ol a
bridging their content*; the following lettters (al
though curtailed) aire To very important, a»d the
fignatuKsfe very that he conceives he ~
should be doing injustice to Whiteheads Ejfence oi r
A'hfJlarJ, were lie to withhold them from public in
fpeSion. m
Letter from Mrs. Mills, Housekeeper to the Duke
of Cumberland.
Sir, Nov. i, 1 795 . "
A most invaterate Rheumatism and Lambago
(occeafioned by laying in a damp bed, when at e
Bruffals, in the suit of Her Highnefs the P 1
Dutchefs of Cumberland) hasafllicled me eighteen »'
year#. I have employed .the firft medical geatle
men in London, and (although I derived no bene
fit) am bound t® acknowledge my gratitude to fey
veral of the nobility, who knew my deplarable si- y
tuatioß, and humanely feat me their physicians ; I
have also tried most advertised medicines. At
length, fir, after eighteen years excruciating J
torture, a few bottles of your WhiteFcad's F.jf»icc
of Mujlard, have, I thank God, restored me to the
inestimable blessings at health and permanent safe.
Yours, much obliged,
No. 134, Jermyn-ftrect,St. James's. S. MILLS.
Copy ef a letter from G. Count»fs l ef<|. CapAin of P
His Majesty's Ship the Dedalus. . '
Sir, Spithead, Nov. 8, JW 95- P
As I expeiSl to fail in a few days, I beg you Vill
immediately forward nie a dazen of Whitehead s
Ejfence of Mr, Hard. It gives me considerable satis.
fa&ion to inform yo\j, I have myfelf experi-nced 1
its .good effects, and, have in fcveral instances »f
Rheumatisms, Sprains, and bruises, witnessed its
astonishing efficaoy 1 think you would conlult ]
your own interest by appointing it to be fold at
Portsmouth, and all other feaperts ; for you may
reft assured, when this iavalaable fpccifU becoaaea
generally known, not an Oliicer ia His wlajefty s
Navy will go to sea without it.
Y/>urs, J«c.
O. COUNTESS.
Sir, Dec.-*o, 1795. j
A fevers flroke of the Palsy, fix months ago, de- ■
prived me of my speech, and the use of one fide.
In this desperate situation, WhiteheadEJince of <
Mujiard was very flrongly recommended, and, 1 ,
1 thank God asfuccefsfully applied. By persevering .
in itsufe aftiort time, I was completely restored,
and continue to enjoy the full and perfeA ula of
my faculties, although near eighty years of age.
Yours, W. IRANCIS,
[ No. 14, ArabelU-rew, Pimlica.
' » Mr. Francis has held a public situation at
the Guildhall in the city of Weftrainftjzr, many
years, arid is well known ta the generality of ths
refpe&able inhabitants.
Letter from A. McCan Esq. Capt. of the 60th m
' ginient,dated Fort George, Guernfay,
Sir, |a». 4, »797
8 Upwari's of five years past I have been affli&ed
* with a most violent Rhawmatic Affetflion in my
head, which has bslHed the Ikill of the most emi
nent Physicians; feme month; fiace I was induced
to try your Whitehead's Ejfence if Mujlard. I am
now happy to inform you, it has dona ill- essential
t fervice,and I thtak it necessary to declare, no other
medicine ever pvt me tin smallest degree of relief.
I am with regard, yours, &c. &c.
Capt. 60th Regt. A. McCAN.
r August, 179^;
Mr. Middleton, of Cheftcrfield-£rcet, St. Ma
ry-le-bone wasfo severely aftii&ed with the Rhcn
' matic Gout, as to be unable to move in my bed for
■' fixmonths; his limbs were cnormoufl/fwelled,a >d
® at length from exeeflive pain became quite black.
In this diftrefiing situation he was induced to try
your Whitehead's Ejfence of Mujlard \ th effc£l far
exceeded the most sanguine expe&ation, hi» pain
was immediately alleviated, andhU limbs returned
to their natural colour ; his appetite raftered, and
in a very short time he was enabled to leave his bed
1. and walk with crutches; and by a few weeks per
severance, was completely restored te the full en
joyment of perfect health. -
«,* Mr. Middleton, with Wis son. repeatedly
called as ke got better, on Mr. Johnfton, and d*-
ly clared thathis life was utterly dcfpaired of.
i- ——
RefpeaedSir, V Nov. 6. 1795.
I* Palfing by a croud, in the fifth month of her
a " pregnancy, my wile received a dreadful blow on
le her fidt, which apparently destroyed the life of the
■'» infant ; after the most flcilful advice, and trying
various remedies for two months, (he still found
h, t he symptoms increase to an ahrming degree 1 fpit
c* ting of blood— of breath —and other dif
agreeablf circumstances appeared fjom so violent a
bruise, afforded only the fatal appearance oi her
fpcedy diifolution. -k friend to whom I related
her fad cafe, having experleawl grei.t benefit from
your Whitehead's Ejfence 9/ Mujlard, kindly predat
ed me with a bottle ; tu my unTpeakable fatisfac
tion, it fpedily relieved her from pain ; a second
bottle has removed every disagreeable symptom,
and with the roost heartfelt gratitude I inform you,
we have the happy profpedl of her long continuing
in a living mother to our numerous family.
Yours, &c. , I". HURLOCK:
Whitmore's-row, Haxton.
_ CHILBLAINS.
Whitehead's F-JJenct of Mujlard generally cure#
Chilblains aud common Rhtumatifms, on the firft
or second application, and often rer. oves the most
V vioii. Nt Sprains »»d Bruises, in two or three days,
d Caution.—A Certificate is palled ®n each bottle
Is, and box, and to prevent the dangar of counterfeits,
e- another certificate is also figaedbyG. thaw & Co.
ns of Philadelphia.
Is, Shaw & Co. have also imported by the William
•y, Penn, a quan'ity of Gowland's Lotion for the face
til and fein—Balfam of Honey for coughs, asthmas
lc. and consumptions—Church's Cough Drops, and a
variety of other Patent Medicines.
November »J. "f&wjt
LO7T,
1 TN th* City, nil Sunday, 26A November, 1797,
' la red Morocco Pocket Book, containing 7 notes
of hand toßiar & Pjkme, as follows,viz.
' John Duffield's, for 441 dollars, 73 cents.
ue William M'L.aws 435 37
7' George Wy's, 177 I 9
John Doaks, 11 90
Eoward Clayton s, 60
_ Do.
Do. .*7
One 10 dollar Bank of Pennfylvanianote—an or
in der upon WalterFrantlin, E£q. in favor of Charlej
j Read, andfundry other papers tkat can be of no
I use but to the owners. Payment of the aforefaid
I notes of hand being ftop'd, a reward of fifteen dol
tbe 1 lars (hall be paid to the person or persons bringing
m- I said pocket book with the aforefaid contents to
i Read and Pierie, f>s, Chcfnut street and no
' questions asked.
f J november *eodjt.
For Sale,
7'hat AvellLnou'nplace, called VANDeasifT'i
f (UV, II
ON Nefhaminy creak, iS miles from Pltili- has
ladelphia, on the Ne.w York post roa*), Wai
enntaihing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the emu
pi emifes are a larjre two ltory stone house o«u- con
pied as a.tvern, and a good one story stone kit- Yor
chen, a large frame Itable with a good th*eftiing
door, and l'orric out buildings—also a well of notl
good water, and an excellfnt ice House. On °
t\iis place is a rnctfl elegant littiation fora gentte
man's l'cat, commanding a view of the Netham
iny to its jundlion wiih the Delawr.se, arid thence
across to the - it has the privilege -
of one half the tollreceived from the bridge. To '
For terms apply to the SaWi'i ibtr, Lri
MORDECAI LEWIS. lan J
yy .a
For sale or to be let on ground- " r n u
rent, bar
A valuable Lot of Ground ; ° n '
SITUATE on the north-eiftcorner of Wai
nut and Fifth ftrcets, fronting the State- er
Houfefquare. This lot is fifty-one feet front t 0
on Walnut ftreit, and one hundred and thirteen Br
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick houfts, 'and a
number «f small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale, " u
Two three (tory Brick Houses X
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on dil
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saffafras ftic
streets, containing in front on Water street fit- fei
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east- fn]
ward ninety-five sett, then widening to the Rt
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses Jt
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining A'
on the north fide, arid are a very desirable fitua- W
tion for a merchant, flour faflor,or others who A
may hijve occsfion for storage of goods. This J
property will be fold on very reasonable terms O
forcalh For further information apply to the A"
printer.
July 31. m&wtf 7
JuJ} Publi/bed,
And to be had of Meflrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice;
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfcllers iu the
city.pricjpfie dollar, twmty-five boards,
New Views of the Origin of die
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, u.d. ,
Jane xo. *
School Books and Stationary, i
W. Y O~U NG, ' A
No. 51, Second-flreet, oorn.'-r of Chefnut-ftrect,
HAS now ready for sale, a very largi assort-
ment of Englijh, French, Latin and Greek
r SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, such elementary books -
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout the United States. F
> x LATELY FUHLISHED,
Sheridan's Diflionary, the sixth edition, in one
large-vol. 8 vo. priee 3 dols.
> Ditto, large II mo price I dol. 75 ets.
Ditto, commoD, price I dol. jocts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
' writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Board", Pasteboards,
' Iheathiug a»d blotting Papers; prinsed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, sf
the bed quality, used in tfec tounting house, or
' public office.
Catalogues of a miscellaneous colleAion of 1
' JjrOOKS, with the price of e*eh affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. OA. 14. —3aw6v* j
The Norfolk Mail STAGE. j
1 'T'HIS Stageftarts from the GEOROK Tavern,
1 L at the eorncr of Seco»d aad Arch Streets, iu
Philadelphia, cveey TutfJay, ThurfJay, and Sjinr-
X . day, at J o'clock, ia the D orning ; arrives at VXo
ver the firft day, a» Snowhill the fceond day, at .
Northampton Court House the third day, and or
the morning of the fourth da-y the paieagcrs find
a fafc arid comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton fei ry,
" every Tuefdiy, Thursday and Saturday, and the
r Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
(1 MonJay, Wadnefday and Friday; puts up at Snow
c - Hill the firft night, at Dover the id nijlit, and ar
y rives in Philadelphia in the eve»ing of the third
■ Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
d and Norfolk, is Jo miles lels than on any fuge route
between those places. ' ,
" Too much cannot befaid in favor of the road,
r " which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
'■ willingly engage to return the whale fare to any
passenger, who, after having performed this route,
y will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for tli* fame
*" diftaflce, so good a road in America.
August 11. dim.eotf.
?• City of Walhington.
; n r SCHEME
,e Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
t . A magnificentjlwelling-tioufe ao,ooo<lcllarß,
f. & ca(h?o,ooo, are 50,000
a 1 ditto is,ooo & cast 15,00® 40,00*
:r 1 ditto 15,000 fie eafh 15,000 30,000
,d 1 ditto 10,000 & caQi 10,000 10,000
m 1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
t- 1 ditto 5,000 & calk 5,000 10^00
c- 1 cath prize of to,ooo
id j do. s,oooeach, are • to,ooo
n, iq 1,000 - - lo.oac
u > 10 do. 500 - - 10,000
'* 00 do. 100 - io.ooo
».jo <:o. 50 * * 10,000
400 do. 15 - ■ « 0 > 0 0"
1.000 do. 10 - 10,000
15,000 do. 10 - »5»,0oo
V 16,7.39 Priies.
|(l 33,161 Blanks. •
£ 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour thofc-wha may take a q«an
°' tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars wilrbc
m the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but on* : .
And approvednotes, fecunng payment in either
as or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, wiil
a be received for any number not lefsthan 30 tick
efs.
This Lottery will afford an elegfliit fpecimon ol
the private buildings to be ere&ed in the City ol
Washington—Two beautiful designs are already
17, feleilcd for the entire fronts on two of the public
tes fquarts; from thefa drawisigs it ispropofed to creel
twocentreand f oftrcor:ier buildings,as soon a', pas
sible after thi9 lottery v is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ir
the manner described in the fcherac for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett dedudion of five per cent, will
be made to defray theneceffary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part cf
the fund intended foV tlie National UitiverLny, to
)r . be creeled within the city of Washington.
le, The real fecuritiesgiven for tl>e paymont of the
no Brizes, are held by the President and two Dire&-
iid ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are Valued at
ol- more than half the amount of the lottery.
ng SAMUEL BLODGBT.
t<) Tieketsmay be had at the Bank of Colsm
-110 hla ! of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Fete*
.Oilman, Boston ; of Joho Hopkins, Richmond ;
(and of Richard W»Us, Cooper's Ferry. raws
REMOVAL. ( '
Maurice Moynihan,
INFORMS his friends and tke public, that he
has removed his Store of China, Glals, Queen»
Ware, and Dry Goods, from No. 81 North Se
cond, to No. 71 North Seventh Street, north east
corner of Cherry Alley, where he so licits the fa
vor cf his former cuftomcrs.
N. 3. Crates put up with cafe at the ihorteft
notice.
November d
Real Estate fop Sale,
A PLANTATION, in a healthy and good si
tuation on Chester Creek, in Middleton
Townfliip, Delaware County, containing H9i
acres, upwards of 50 acre* of which are wood
land, well timbered ; the remainder plough laad
and watered meadow—of the latter, many more
acres can be made at a small expence. There are
' on said premises, a good orchard of befl grafted
fruit, a lioufe, with a spring near the door, a frame
j barn with (tabling under, and a log tenement on
| one part of said place.—Any person inclining
to purchase, may view thepremifes by applying
to Wm. Pennull, on said farm, and know the _
erms by apjslyingto Jokathan Pennell, ia the
'orough of Chester.
Bnovcmberil. 3t eod
Philadelphia, OS. 13.
THR fubferibers infsrm their friends and cufl«- '
mers in town and country,that their ftoresare now
open in the city, and others are daily opening, and
that from tke present appearance of the prevailing,
disorder have reason to hope, their friends may \
ihortly come to the city with perfedt faf-ty. By
several latj arrival*, numbers have received freik
supplies of GOODS.
Rebert Smith & Co. P. IV. Gallaudet & Ct.
John Davis & Co. Sitgreancs i 3 French,
Keill & Smith, George Dobfon,
IViitbtrger and Smith, Thomas Ryer/on,
Alex Btlfland and Co. T. R. Hardenberg.
Jacob Sperry and Co. John Smith and Ce~
Owen & Jona. Jones, Thomas Orr,
j Keppele s3* Zaiitzinger, William Barter & C*.
j Adam Zantzmger, Thomas Armat & Sou.
John Fries, J. Miller, jun. and Ct.
Benjamin &J' Jobnfon.
<_Mh 14 ' ,
; POYNTELL's
. Paper Hangings Manitfaflory, %
No. 70, Ch«fnut-ftreet,
Where be has for Sale,
AVERY extensive (lock, of every colour,
of the moll approved patterns, fuitablc for
every part of a house, with great variety of bor
ders to suit.
ALSO (
A handsome assortment of the not falhionafcle
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
* I very best plain Green and plain Blue,
" With Pannel Papers and a rick variety of Borders.
* N«vember t. eo6t
» Will be landed,
Fuom onboard the {hip A&ivqt Capt.BLAiß,from
Hambutgh,
e 10 baUs white Ruflia clein Hemp
a calks Clover Seed
For Sale by
d Thomas Herman Leuffer,
, North Fifife (Weet, Ho. J*.
s ' June 2(5. * §
M ImportedintheftiipMANGHESTEßj,
Binjahtin S well, Mafler,
>f I From Boordeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
d No. ji. Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy *1
Irish market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. J Drawback.
Jji Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatroyd.
>■ WHO HAS FOR SALE*
11 Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter cafjes
Rota do. d®. »
■o Pimento in bags
4£>oo bushels Liverpool fait.
y» J Aug. *4. tut&stf
-1 Peale's Museum. *
W I
r- I _
r( J 1 ' I "HIS valuable repolitoiy of the works of Na-
X> ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
iii I and enlarge the undcrftandmg, ia opened daily, a»
tc ! ufuak It tlands in an airy and heilthy situation,
I and fret from tke epidemic that at present afHi<S«
"d, 1 the city ; it may, therefore, be frequented v#th
ire I the created fafety.
,y j As an Ai-oulement, the lludy of Nature is the
te, I molt rational and pleating : a* a Science, the most
ne I sublime and inflrudive. It elevates the mind and
I expands tke heart. They
" JVbom Nature's xvorls tan eharm, vditb God bhifrtf
I " Hold eonverfe."
Many interring additions have lately been
I made to this Mufeurn : and the feathered tribe,.
containing a variety of the most rare and beautiful
I fubjefls, is now very advantageously arranged,
j Waxen Figures, of Men large as life (some o£them
' caftsirom nature) are here-dressed in their proper
r8 > 'habits, and placed in attitude* ciura&criilic of tkeir
00 1 refpeflive nations. Here may be fecn the North-
Ov I American Savage, and the Savage of South-Ameri
-00 I ca — a laboring Chinese, and the Ghinufe Gentlc
-00 man—the sooty African, and the Kamtfthadale—
or with some Natives of the South Sea Islands. The
oc immense variety and interesting diverftty which:
00 this Museum offers to the view, may befetn hut
oc eennotbe dtfe'ribed with full effeil.
Ac I .jy* Price only I-4th of a dollar.
lof beyt. it. _ _l law
00 Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 3 J 9> High-Strut.
r GEORGE DAVIS,
I TJEING bufie'd for some time pafc in prepara-
I X 3 tions for removing into his present house, ha»
I been under thcnecelfityof poftpotfinguntil this day
I informing the gentleitMn ofthe Bar generally thro"
10c the United States,, that his spring importation of
1 law books is now arranged and ready for lale, a»
in- I termsthat he trulls will entitle him to the like pre»
be I freence he has experiencod for leveral years pad.
l st I Catalogues, oombining the moll varied cullec
I lion ever imported iflto this country, are printed
her I and will be delivered on application,
viil June C - . »»
Boston Glass Manufactory.
I r T" HE c ' t ' lens '' lc United States are hereby
My I 1 informed, that the maneCa&urc of Window
I 3'" I Glass is now commenced at the Glass House in Bof
:cc"' I ton.
pof- It is nce/Hcfs to fay any thing of the tittllei*
Cl ?' j quality of the Boston Ghft, as it is so well ISnowa
* ' throughout the United States to be in eve»yTe(p«it
ote ' 1 greatly fuperier to anv ever imported from Europe.,
will lt
will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
int " may be constantly had by applying to Chaslei F.
' 1 Uupteb, at the Glass House.
1 to Orders from the distant States to be addressed te
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-street, Boston.
the j Boston, Sept 30,1797 O4— 2aw6w
e£t- 1 Mtjfrs. Timothy r,nd Mir/en, CLarleJlon ; Mrjfn.
i£ - I Hoify and Boytan, Halifax, N. C. Mejfrt. it illetf
| and O'Connor, Norfili ; Mr. Kllit frict, Alexandria ;
I Mejfrs. Yundt and Brom-n, Baltimore ; Air. Hopkins,
Km- I New-York ; and Jlffffrs. Hudfoa SS" CWwiVt, Hart
ctet I ford i M . Seymour,Huvannah ; art rcquefed to infest
>d ; j tie abm once a ivcek (s v:u!h. Tin ussostnts Hie 'str
aws 1 v/arik tieMdiftr.