of t|>c Mtlttfct! St• Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1595.J
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRY GOO DS.
( Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. Js,
jr j ) south Fronr-ftreet,
" J Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 6$
C. South Front-street.
r''Forenoon—John'ConnfHy, Old City
Xw>rJa*J Au<Tlion, No. 73 fout'h Front-street.
) Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C 183 High-street.
ii'cdMfdaj f Arteraoon-Perer fletrfon, No. 74
I south Tlurd-ftrcet.
TLitrfday j Foren6 o n-Edv,-ard Fox v
I Afteracon—John Connelly.
FriJa-v ? Forenoon—WiH«it*<6Haiiuoa.
' 5 Afternoon —John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benlon.
For LONDON;
• « TIIE SWEDISH SNOW
Aclolphz,
Capt. Chs. JVm. Ramte ; ;
Ejcpe&ed to fail in all the pral'ent month—A '
few tons of Gooch art wanted on Freight, and
will be taken on moderate terms, v is speedy appli
cation is made.' Apply ta
Peter Blight.
Back of his new buildings, Dock-llreet.
03 iy. 5
For Freight or Charter,
Tffc Tht Dani/b Brig
Abel Catherina,
Burthen about 160 tons.
THIS vellel is now ready to receive on beard a
eargo, and mJy l » ;!'ft to any port in En
rope er the Mediterranean in eight days-
Jpply to the Captain on board, or to the fubferi
ber. JAMES YARD.
O&. 19. diet
For Freight or Charter,
jfT-—V THE GOOD BRIG
s U K. E Y,
Isaac Vredenburg, Master ;
NOV/ lying at Clifford's whari, and in co'mpkat
order to recede a carjo. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain en board, or
John Slyriit,
> No. 81, Arch-street.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
2000 vtt.of double refined Saltpetre
6co wt. of F F Gun Powder
300 barrels of Herrings
50 buflielfTof Timothy Seed
ijocafe.'of fllaret, firft quality
And a qaantift of Sherry Wioe.
Sept. 29.
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmingtonj Delaware
State, and now landing from on board the
Brig
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale by
Jehu Hull'tngJzvorth & Co.
Wilmington, Sept.n. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
and the brig GAYOSO, are
also for Sale or C|iiarttr, and
_}>s£}■ n tfw ready to receive a cargo
onboard, at Wilmington." Apply as above.
An elegant Hnife in Arch Street.
TO Ije IctVnd entered on immed : a'ely'a Urge
and elefant house at the Cornvr of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two /drawing rooms
andqjle dining room—the largelt is 3.1 feet by
36—and two are so cornealeu by folding doors
as to make but one. Also. bed rooms, be
fldes 5 in the garret, w<ill finitiled for fervanu.
There are stables and a coa'.h ho'jfe, with evry
convenience for a family. Enquire nt No. 19,
in North' Seventh. street, or at No. 218, Arch
Street.
Aug- fj- 1
Chocolate and Miiftard
Manufaflured as usual,
Oinger and Ffpper ground
Shelled or Peat 1 Barley
Bhiladelphia Porttr, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Buiton A!e
Hed Port and other Wiacs, eithe bottled,
erby tlie pipe, quarttr-cafli or gallon—'suitable
for exportation or home consumption
For Sale by
John Haworth.
No. 98 south Front street. l
" THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREENLEAF>
HEREBY give notice, that they have disposed
of the pioperty afUgned to them for the securing
the payment of the note«, acceptances, and en
doifements given by Edward Fox, for the use
otthefciid James Oreenleaf; and theJiofders of
such notes, acceptances, and endorl'ements, are
hereby iiotifyed that the lubfcribers will fit tie
with them for the amount of their refpe&ive
claims, both principal and interest, at
any time before the loth day of Odlober next ;
after which dav, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of aflign
jnfnt.
Applications to be made at fonth-eaft corner
of Dock and Second streets (the Dock-street
■fide), between the hours of jtleven and one o'
<lock every day, §undays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tho. W. Francis,
John Miller, Jun.
John AJhley,
Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, August 18, 179?. d
, N O T I C E.
ALL persons indebted to the estate of Jo UN
Striker, late of Tinnecum Tewnfhip,
Buck's County, are requested to pay off their
relpeflive debts ; and those having any de
mands against said estate, are desired to in
their accounts, to
JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN, & ) Execu-
M/lI.LET PREVALT, 5 tors.
fiaW4W
Ifcrfioice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Coffee
Madeira and Teneriffe Wine
For Ka'e by
James Yard,
No, —.South Fourth-fireet.
e<a. 6. d o w
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, OCTOUER 20, 1797
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
\f If not before d'tfpofed of at private sale)
AN Friday, the firifc of December new, at fix
v_y o'clock in the evening, ac the Mrrchncts' Cof-*
fee House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine
Hundred and Thirty Nine acres of LAND,
now or late in the County of Wofhington, and Com
monwealth of Pennsylvania, and Mb the waters of
Frelh and Wheeling Creeks snd Ten Mile Run.—
Thcfe Lands arc fertile and well timbered, and were
patenteed early in 1787, except 3700 acres or therea
bouts, which were patented in 179 a. One fourth
of tfrp purchase money to be p«iid at tike time'of sale,
for the residue a credit Qf one, two and three months,
will be given, 011 interest and good security.
Oftober 6. 3*wtS
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before d'tfpofed of at private sale)
ON Friday, the firtl day of December, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants'
House, in Philadelphia, Twenty Six Thousand Se
van Hundred and Eighty acres of LAND, in the
State ot the northern bound*
of Pennsylvania and tjie Su'quehanna, now, or l?te,
in the townships of Haraden and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery. One fourth of the purctiafe
money is to oe paid at the time of sale ; for ihe le
fidue a credit of one, two, and three months, will be
given, on interest and good security.
Odefle 6. ' >. gaytSj
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the City—
OF famous SIZES,
From Bbv 6to J9 by 14,
By the single Box or Quantity, may be h?d at the
store of "ibe Subscribers, cornier of Arch and Froat
ilxeet.
yantes C. & SamuelW. Fijher.
Philadelphia, jmf 9, 17Q?. wmwM
Will be Landed,
From onboard the ship Adlive, Capt. Blair,from
Hambutgh,
30 bales white Ruflia clean Hemp
* calks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leujfer,
North Fifth street, No. 34.
June ib. t
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chefo of a superior quality—Also,
100 do.of Hyson,
Imported in the lVoodrop Simj, and for/ale by
the fubferiber, corner of Second and Pinp
flreet.
C. Haight.
J«ne il. ■ entf
Cedar Shingles.
'T'Ht fubrcriber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar
A . Shingles of-m 'superior quality, for file at 13
dollara pur thohfand.
William Ha Howell,
No. 193 North Third-Jlreet.
July 17. eoiat
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And ¥or sale by John Morton, No. si£, South
Front-street,
Hvfon
Hyson Skin (.TEAS
Young Hyson £
Imperial J
April 20. *otf
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Amsterdam and Hamburg, iand for sale by
B. fcf J. Bohlen,
A large afjortment of fine French Cambrics,
Platill.-.s Ruflia md Dutch fail cloth
Bnttannias Writing, port, and piint-
Rouanes ing paper
Brown Holland Hutch calf flcins
Checks and flripts Prime madder
Ticklenburgs j ShelPd Barley
Oznahurgs Looking glades
White (heedngs Hollow giafc ware
Diaper Slates
Brown rolls Coffee mills
Umbtellas v Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and straw knivts
Black and whit«laces Tovsaflorted in boxes
Be{l Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Madeira Wine
July' 14. m&thtf
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto ditto Claret in cases
Just received, and for Sale by
Rundle & Lash.
Aug. 41. • aawtf
MRS. GRA TT A N
INFORMS her friends,and the public in general,
that htr house, No. 191, Market-street, will con
tinue open during the fieknefa.
Board and Lodging in a fepariite room, ten
dollars, in a double room, eight dollars.
For the convenience of th.ife gentleman who
have not thsir amilies in town, Mrs. ©rattan
will receive gentlemen to dine at liAi.r a dollar
a day. Auguji -9- —6t
Just published,.
And to be fold at the Bcokftores of H.> & P.
Rice, No. 50, Market-street 1 J. Ormrod,
No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, and W. Young,
eorner of Chefnut and Second-streets,
An accurate §yftem of Surveying;
IM WHICH IS CONTAINHD,
1. Decimal fradUons, in a plain, conclfe,
and easy manner, 'l
2. The extradlionipf the square root.
3. Plain trigonometry, reilangular and ob
lique.
4. An exa& methed to cast up the contents
as lands.
j. Field surveying.
The whole being performed without the use
offcale and compafles, on a table of logarithms.
In which is given l'oine account cf the variation
as the needle, and the causes of its attraction.
By SAMUEL MOORE.
AttPtlft 1. 13W2W
Lately Publittied, i
In one vol. 8 vo (price one dollar in boards} fold
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
Chefnut streets,
A Colle&ion of Papers on the fubjeft of
Billious fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years 'past.
Compiled by NOAH WEBSTER, jun.
Containing letters from DocSors Seaman, SEiith,
Buel, Taylor, Ramsay, Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch
ell,on contagion, &c. &c.
Sept. Ij. it
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut Street.
Huge lta.'ts tvaift' the GKOIiGE Tavern,
I at the corner ps Seeded &id Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, (-?ujr TbwfJuy, aud &jtur
cUy, at .1 o'clock, ialß'e
ver the fit ft day, at StioxV.Mll ibc/ft .1: ' >:ay, at
rforthampton Court House t.'ie tmrTl"day, and on
the nHMinng ol rtie fourth day the naifengers find
a fafe and somiortabk packet to convey than to
Norfolk. 1
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton feiry,
evtfryTuefdiy, Tburfiay and ;>atu:day, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, ever/
Mom'ay, Wcd<ieljay and Friday ; puts up at Snow
HiH (he firft nigiit, at Dover the 2d night, and ar
lives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediftance on this routs, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles less tban on auy stage route
between those places,
Too much cannot be said in favor of the Toad,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole' fare so any
paflenger, who, after having pcrlormed this route,
ivill fay that he ever travelled in a stage fpr the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
Awguft 11. dim. eotf.
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt. Rhodes, fretn
Oporto,
Red Port Wine in pipes,hhds.and quarter calfcs
£c cwt. afck- sale by '
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
>ly 2a, S
CUSTO M-iToIJS^7
Philadelphia, Sept. 2jd, 1797.
THF. Me-rbants v. bo ot this time prefer hav
ing their* vell'-li and Merchandize eotercd and
cleared at Chefltr or Marcus Hor.k, —are here
by notified, That in complume Itii their ile
fire, znd upon a full convi<slion that the measure
will be mutuary beneficial to them and to the
United States. The colleiloi of the cullomshas
made arrangements to eflablifli for some time
brsnches x>f the.cuflom-houfe at those places,
where every accommodation in his power will
be given to the merchants. di w
TO BE SOLD,
And immediate poffeffiou given,
A Convenient well finrflud Brick Tenement,
with a cook heufe and other out houses.situ
ated in a pleasant part of the borough of Wilming
ton, in the State of IJeliware —The lot of ground
has forty feet front on West-street, and extends
through the square to Paflure-Qreet, on which is
erected a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. 30.
City Cofttmiffiauers Office,
August 29, 1797.
IN pursuance of an Ordinance of the Sele& and
Common Councils, paled the 2id day of May last.
Proposals in writing will be received hy the City
CommiCfioners for one month from the ift of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for one
rear to commence the firft day of January next, thi
following public property of the city—
The whanf and landing on Viue Street,
Also on Saffafras,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
' Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Draw Bridge, with
the Scale and Fish Houfcs, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so ntuch
thereof as shall be occupied by any buildings eredl
ed for the use of the Colle&or of th 6 Tolls, or be
necessary for the toll-gates.)
Anf. 3 jtawim.
LOST,
ON the PaflYuuk Road, between the Blue BaU
and the eity, a Fowling Piece, with a brass
ha; rel and silver fi^ht; on the pfate of the butt are
the letters " Jajnaica, Q_ 93" —and on the barrel
near the lock •"• London" and the Towsr stamp.
Whoever will return the aid piece to John ISerm.irJ,
at the sign of the Blue BaU on the PaCfyunk Road,
or the office of this Gazette, Cull receive a reward
of Four French Crowns,
. C cpt. 1 a. *3t
DUTY ON CARRIAQES.
Notice is hereby Givch,
TiAT agreeably to of Congress of the
United States of America, passed at Phila
delphia, the *Bth day of May, 1796 ; laying du-
I tivs on Carriages, for the conveyance of persons,
which (hall be kept by or for uny person, for His,
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of paflengers, the several duties and
r«ites following, to wit :
F6f and upon every Coath, / l5 dois.
upoa every Cl arii>t, 12 dois.
upon every Post Chariot, 12 dois.
upon every Post Chaise, ia dcrts.
upon every Pkaetoa, with or without top,
9 dois.
upon every Coachee, 9 dol*.
upon other Carriages, having pannel work
above, with blinds, glafles or curtains,
9 dois.
upon f*ur wheeled Carriages, having fra
med polls and tope With lleel springs, 6
dois.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
eiy>r iron springs or jacks, 3 dois.
upon Curricles with tops," 3 dol's.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dois.
upon Chairs with cops, 3 dois.
upon other two wheel top carriages, j dois.
upon two wheel carnages, with fleei or
iron springs, 3 doU.
For and.upon all other two wheel carriages, 2 dois.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed posts and tops, and reding upr
6n wooden spars, 2 dois-
The ColleAors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Diftri& of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September n*xt, for
the pur pose of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
Oermantown ; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Ef<j.
in the County of Montgomery ; and at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. in theCoanty of Bucks ;
of which all persons poileffcd of flrck Carriages are
desired tojake notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will be grant'
, ed to them ; one licehce for carrying on the busi
ness of retailing; of Wines, in a less quantity, or
in lets quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous, liquors in less quantities than 16 gallons, at,
the fame time and at the fame places, the offic
ers legally authorifedte grant such licence.*.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeflor of the Revenue of the firft fui
vcy of thie Diftrid of Peuiil'ylvatlia.
Office of Infpedlion at ") jaj
Germantow,, Itth Sept. 1797; i
The Norfolk .Mail STAGE.
( Philadelphia, 03. 13.
THE fubferibers inform their p<is «ud cutlo
ni -r> in town ut.<i'o u"try,ti.a' tJacic iloiessrenow
open in the city, a->J otlvii* are aai y oprmnEj and
rh'jr ftomtkr prefeut atipu tr.ince of thf f revailiny
i.ave ,-eafon ta hope, then' rt-iends may
ftortly crjtiie roth:: ci.vwitr perfvd iafity. By
. several liittr arrivals, I:'irr.hcr. have received
of GOODS. . ■
Robert SrnMtj iff Co! P IV. GaUaudet & Co.
. John UavLf, Cs. Srtrrea'vfs lit French,
Neill & Smith, Geo\ge Dobfon,
H'lhbergcr ui>d Smith, Thomas Ryetfon,
- l.V.v Bttjland add Co. T. R. Cat denberg.
.yufiob Sperry and Cb. 'John srtiith and Co- v
.Omm & Jeria. Jenes, Thomas Orr, ,
Keppele C 2" Zar.tzingcr, William Barker w' Co.
Adam 7,antz nger, Thomas Arniat tif Son.
Jolm Fries, J. Miller, jun. and Co.
oa..i«-
Boston Glass Manufadtor)',
THE citizens of the Unirerl States are hereby
informed > that the rhamifadure' of Window
G-iafs is now covnmenecd at the Glals House in Bos
ton.
It is needless to fay nny thing of the excellent
quality of the liofton G&afv, as it is so well ltnown
throughout the United States to be in every rifpcii
greatly superior to any ever imported from Europe.
It will beVut to any size commonly used ; and
may be conftandy hae by applying to Cuajiles f:
Kupfer, at' the Glass House.
Orders from the distant States to be addressed to
Mr. Samuel Goac, Court-street, Boston.
Sept 30,1797 O4 —law6w
Mejfrs. Tinwlby and ATaJon, Ckctrlejlon ; iVlejJrs.
Hodog and Boylan, Halifax, N. C iWeJJrs. Wilicit
and O'Cowtor, Norftlii ; Mr. Ellis Prise, Alexandria ;
I/i'eJfrt. l 'imdt and Brcrwn, Baltimore ; I/lr. Hopkins,
Nexv-1"ork ; and Afcffrs. Hltd fan & Goodwin, Hert
ford ; j\Jr. Seymour, Savannah ; are ren veiled to insert
the above wee a iveei 6 iveeis. The accounts to be for
warded to the Editor.
Mr. L A ITSO~N;
WITH an intention to render ,service, and unde
ceive those Performers, who durizjjhis absence Mr.
Jaymond fias thought proper to engage, thinks it
would be wrong in him not to inform thole that
are engaged, that it is withou his approbation,and
that he will not be in any way answerable for Mr.
Jaymond's engagements.
PHILIPPE LAILSON.
Alexandria, Sept. IJ, 1797« 6t-
At a Meeting of the Board of
Property, June 6, 1797,
Prefsnt John Hall, Sea'ry.
v Francis Johnfton, R. G. >oflandoffice
Dan. Brodhead, S. G-)
Nicholas Bettinger,!
Versus %
Samuel Cunningham.)
In this cafe the proof of service of notice be
ing inefficient, It is ordered that notice be giv
en in one of the Philadelphia and York newspa
pers weekly, for at least eight weeks to the
heirs or afflgnees of Samuel Cunningham de
ceased, to atttend the board on the firft Monday
in November next, to shew cause why a patent
(Hould net ifliie to Nicholas Bettinger for the
land in question.
(A true Copy.)
JOHN HALL,
Secretary of the Land Ofßce.
Aug. it. *iawßw.
From Marseilles.
THE CARGO
Of the Swedilh barque Guftavus Adolphus, from
Marseilles, confiliing of the following articles,
isdifchargint; at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
sale by the lubfcribers
BRANDY, well flavored, of 1, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hogfteads
Ditjo, in cases
Frontigliac Wine, in cases ef 30 bottles
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in baikcts of 6
and ii bottles 1
Capers .
Olives
.Altnords %
Dry Verdigresfe
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (tUlk) of aB, 3c 2nd 31 inches
TafTeties < s
Long and short white KUI Gloves for Women
Silk Stockings ■
llaudWcrclirefs, in imitation of Madrafs
Artificial Flower& and Garlands
Ostrich Feathers
Ribbons
Perfumery
Scented llair-Powder and Pomatum
Manna in forts
Cream Tartar.
BENIAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANDREWS.
September 17. eotf
At the Federal Blast Furnace,
In Carvsr—for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
Mills.
SEYMOUR's Patent Rollers.
THEIR Ju/ieriority canjijls in being free from
hales and honey-combed plaees, <whieh are com
ir.onh found in rollers call In sand, or clay
moulds. Theft pat:nt rollers are cnjl in iron
nitadds, prcvtopjly heated, and luill be found to
be more dmfe, solid and durable than any rollers
heretofore used. Another important aai'bntage
they have c-ver others, is, that the necks require
no turning, but are immedaitely fit for use, and
from their accuracy, run with less J'riSian, <wd
require i'fs water to make them perform their
ivork. 7hey may be bad by application to the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Good
win, or of iMeffrs. Thatcher and Pay ward
Rofion, AUfr. 3r. Sept. 19. ■ ft"fit
This Day is Published,
BY Mess. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
other Booksellers,
Price ©he Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegant y printed on IVove paper, and Not
prejfed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
clafling together their most inipsrtaut provisions,
under the "fevcraT heads of adniiaiftration ; with
Notes andObfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South Caroling,
L L. D and member of the Congrcfs of the
United States.
Oedicated to tho People ol the UnitedState.s.
N. li. A few Copi s printed oa an inferior pa
pel', at t»4thsof a dollar. t
Fubrwry i N *Jk*v;f
Thomas Herman Leuifer,
North >ifth (Ireet, corner cf North alley, No. 34,
HAS FCR SALE,
red ttourdeaux Wine in oaf sand
4Li boxes, fixayjears old
White Grave; Wine in
! irklen!>i;rc:s
Ruff.a Sail Clotty
Havens Duel
Bag Linen
HefTiang
Diaper and Table Cloth *
Empty tajr* -\~
Conaoioo Gerjran Cloth
*\n allcrtment of black coloured Ribbon*
F»ne German Laces
About twelve tons F.uffia clean Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in frnali boxe*, for family us«
Window Aug 1 29 —2aw
TiTTS D/LY'\VAS"POtJLLih;.:iS,
And for Ole by, 7HQM,'IS BO&SON, at the
Stone House, No. 41. foutb Second street,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, C HE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Confining ,of a variety of Miscellaneous» Pieces
the in fir usl ion and aaiufement of Y OTJMO PEP*-
SON 3- Six Volumes haudfonrtely printed and bound
up in two volumes, price Two I)ol!ar<. 4
" The variety and rxccllence of thef• pieces sre
such, that the hook needs only to be known to be
universally efleemed one of tlie molt valuahjc pub-
th t can be put into the banc's of young
ptrfons.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teach the youoj', id a how t # ihoot,
To pour tk® frelh inllruclioli o'tr the mind,
To brtathefh' <rnUVen;ng fpirit»and to fix
The gtuerouspurpofe in the glowing breast.'*
s Thomson.
August 24. ' BIW4W
"THIS D\X 15 PUBLISHED,
By TIIOMAS fIQJSSOy, ct the Stone Hcuf«,
No. 41, south Second (Ireet,
Letters and Conversations,
Between Young Ladies, on improving and in
terfiling fubj:&s.
TranCated from tk-e Dutch of Madame cU Camion
with alterations and improvements,
Printed on Jine paper, and veathound,
J*rice one dollar.
AM IDST the tide of modern Romances, parting
tales ©f extraordinary diflrefs, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds cf real life, the proper,, becauf*
elegant and natural dignity :tfld importance of the Femail
character is exhibited in an interesting point of view*,
and presents examples of real and attainable/ excel«
kn.ee. * >
The publifiier was fomuch pleafedwith the per»-
sal, that he was persuaded he fiiould do a pleating
service to the community by fending" it in o circu
lation. Augntt 24-—mw4w
To Majlers and Pilots bringing rip Vcjfds
from Foreign Ports to tins City.
WHereasfund rt infringements have lately been
made on the laws of this iiate for the pre
venting pestilential or infe&ious difcafes, either
from igi*orance or inattention thereto, it is tho*t
expedient at this time to pnbiifii the following ex
tracts from the laws of aad April, 1794, 7th and
Bth fe&ions.
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794.
Sxtrall of an aft for fearing the city and port
of Philadelphia from the introduction of pesti
lential and contagious difeafej.
Sect. 7. And be it further enabled, that every
ma/ler or captain of any lbip or vessel aiming from
fes (Veflcls a.Aualjf employed n the coaiiiiig trade
excepted) and bound to any port or place within
the jurifduftion of Pennlylvania,fba 1 cause his fhij»
Dr yefiel to be brought to anchor, 6r other wife flay
ed in the dream of the river Delaware, oppefiti to
the Health-Office cm Suu-lilind aforefaid, and
there to remain until he fliall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of ilealh from the Refidcnt Phy
sician. And it, previaufly to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of hialth, any mailer or captain {hall
suiTer his Clip or vessel to approach nearer than the
said Health-Office to (he city of Philadelphia, or
fliall had, cause or fuffcr to be landed, cr brought ■
on shore, at any place 'or pert within this Com
monwealth, or at any other port or place, with the
intent oi being conveyed into this Common wealth,
any pcTfon or pcrfons, cr any goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving such bill of health
r1: certificate, he shall uegleci or refufe to deliver
the sam» to the Health-Officer, such maftct;or cap
tain shall forfeit a»n (or each and every such
oflocice, thefumvf rtVE hundred hollars.
And the captain or mailer of every Ihip or ves
sel (hall fend a fafe and commodious boat to bring
the phyficiati on board, -nd Ihali in like manner
conwj him back to the Hialth-OlHce, afta«- lie hqs
concluded dllicial
u making such examination, or in < afe any subse
quent cxaniinatian by the Health Officer or Con
futing Phyikian, agreeably to the cl.reilions of
thi< »<S, the mailer or captain shall expole or catilc
to be exposed to the fcarch of the Resident Sjilyfi
cian,or of-the Health Officer and Confuiting Physi
cian (as the cafe may be) ooch and every part of the
ffii;» or vessel, shall present to hi view each
and every perfpn 6r perfoce on board thereof, aad
and fliall ilfo true and fatisfaitory anfwtrs make
to all inch quell ions as the Resident Phyfteion, &c.
it the time of ei'anunation shall ask velatiVp to the
health of any port or place fr«tm which the fhip.oj
veffel failed, or has firce touched a't—tiie number
of persons on board when the ihip cr vessel entered
on her voyage—the number ol pcrfons that have
C-nce been landed or taken 011 board, ana when
and whererefpeitively—what perfoss on board—
s they haVe bean daring the voyage, or lhall, at
the time of examination, be infecled with any pes
tilential or cout.'.gious difeale—and what is the pre
sent slate and condition tf the persons on board
with refpcift to their health or diseases. And ii
any milter or captain shall rcfufe to expofeas afore
aid, to the fcarch of any of the officers aforefaid,
„ if he fhlWconecal a/ry Jul in any other mati~
deceive iheproper (JJicers efurtfa'U in his anhutrs t
tich captain or matter, for every such offence, shall
forfeit »nd pay the fuai of irivt uunhrcd dov-
LARS.
Se»t.B. And if any person or pcrfons whatso
ever (the R.ofldent l'hyfician, &c-excepted) ftiall
go on board any vessel, befere the malicr thereof
lias received a certificate of htalih 1 a the manner
dire&ed, every person so offending, shall pay the
um cf ONE HUJIDREJJ DOLLARS
IT beir-jg absolutely neoeffary that the foregoing
si flions Ihould be pundually complied witi-, the
fubferiber, in tonipliance with his duty, r.wifl ex
ait a rigorous observance of the lame, cr clfe' l.«
under tfhe n;eeffity of putting the laws in force.
Vt M. Ai>.Ll'.N, Health QJjicur tf Ihr
* 4'*r( "f I'-HUitlgbia.
"4- " Sii*
f VciAIMV. XIIP II ILA.DEL PHI J,
FRIDAY EVENING, O'ctObfr tp.
"&ETTER from Mr. PICKERING '
S.rre.'ary .of State, to the ChcHalier DE ■
YRU'fO, En-boy Extraordinary and Mi- .
nijler Pknip 6tentiary of bis Catholic Mu
jefiy to the United States of- America.'
(Conchidtdfront the Pittfburg Gazette.)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE.
Philadelphia, August Btb, 1797.
On thw, as well as on aiother oecafion,
Vou have thought fit to'upbraid mc with
fliewing to the British minister a degree of
fcanc'our, and Confidence \vhich you infinu
ate-he does not deferve,*and which, you
seem to think, I have withheld from you.
Yet, fir, .all the declarations nV.de to me
by that minuter, verbally and in writing,
touching the points iti corrtroverfy between
Von and me, have been verified. As I hai>c
already said, yon declared to 1115 that you
had juti reaf<Jns for fufpe&ing that an ex
pedition was preparing on tfic lakes by the
Engliih, in order to attack Upper Louisi
ana. Th'e British Tninifter, in the firlt in- ■
ftancf, affnred me that he hs'd no know
ledge of it—and his subsequent inquiries
ejiabl -d him further to afiure me, that no
such expedition had been or was intended
by the BritilH go'frermjtent. And I have
in another place offered other reasons which
confirm the truth of these afluranc.es. Yet
you t !1 rnc that the assurance. given me by
the British minister, lut without any figne
lure, did not inspire the fcrvants of his Ca
tholic majeily with the fame blind confidence
which it produced inme. I (hall take no
other notice of this remark, than to put
you right in point of fact. The note of
the Britiih minister containing, th? aflfuranEe
to which you refer, is not " without a sig
nature ." This (like other official notes
from that mini Iter) has his signature—his
name written -with his own band—at the
hesji.of it.
Yon declared to " that you knew to
a certainty that the English had made pro
pofitiona ,to general Clarke, of Georgia,
in or<Je r to avail themselves of his influence
in that state, together with some other per
sons, for making a diversion, or feriou9 at
tack against Florida." The British minis
ter informed me, that although he knew
ncthiag of general Clarke or his expedition
from Georgia, a proposition had been made
to him (the British minister) for an expedi
tion againlt the Florif.as: ,but that he told
the projector that he hacPno power to au
thorize it: »r.d besides," that there were a
mpng other objeflions to the plan, two of
great weight—one that the Indians were to
be employed—the other, that it would vi
olate the neutral rights of the United States.
The Britifti minister has since (hewn me an
original letter from lord Grenyille, dated
the Bth of Inft April, in which he informs
th? minister, that if there were no other
objeftioas to the plan, the two mentioned
him, viz. that it could not be executed |
without employing the Indians—anaVith
out violating the rights of the United
States, would be fufficient to induce the
British government to rejett it. This
proves, fir, that Mr. Lifton's declarations
011 this point tvere not " vague and unau
thentic" as you pronounce them, but in
ftri& conformity with truth.
As to general Clarke of Georgia, the
British minister declared he had never even
heard of. him ; and the extra# of the letter
from ( Mr. Jackfcn, the diftrid attorney of'
Georgia, rtfpefting gen. Clarke and any ]
expedition forming there, in behalf of the
Enghfo against the Floridas, will incline 1
, every candid inquirer at least to doubt whe
ther such a projett has ever been proposed <
to him. We shall afterwards fee that Mr.
Blount's plot does not appear to have any :
connexion with an expedition under gene- 1
ral Clarke. <
Thus you fee, fir, that I have not blindly
placed a confidence in the British minister :
for augkt that has yet appeared, he was 1
entitled to the credit he has received.
I return to your letter. You mention '
your communication? to the baron de Ca- 1
rondelet refpedling the intended expedition 1
from Canada : "from that moment, you fay,
imperious necessity, and the great principle '
of fclf-defence, made his Catholic majesty's i
officers turn their thoughts to objects of a '
more urgent nature than running the boun- i
dary line. And- here you introduce " Mr. '
Blount's letter, and the late detested con- «
fpiraK', as evincing how far their Conduct i
in this rt/peft was ntceflary." It is won-, '
devfut, fir, that you should attempt to make <
it be believed that Mr. Blpunt's letter and
the late detected conspiracy, had any con- ;
neftion with the expedition, which you fug- 1
gefted wa-s preparing 011 the lakes of Cana- 1
da against- Upper Louisiana. All that is 1
yet difcovefred of- Mr. Blount's projeft or <
conspiracy, proves that it was to have been 1
formed in one of the states south of the river <
Ohio ; and that it was deltined against the <
Floridas, and perhaps Lower Louisiana. ;
I therefore, feel fiiyfelf, for this and the ]
other reasons before exhibited, still warrant- '
ed in conf.dering the fufpeCtad Canada ex- I
ptdition amting the pretexts.for delaying to t
evacuate the polls, and to run the boundary 1
line : and confequ'ently that your charge, J
that I have in this inftanee" palpably at
tempted to make groundkfs ar.d unfair im- }
preffions on the public mind," is alike un- "c
founded and unbecoming your public cha- c
rafter to suggest. «
In your next paragraph you thus address t
me. " Nor do your ill-founded infinuati- f
ons flop hei;e : fentimcnts and expreflions c
still mora violent, flow from that fame hasty 2
pen." This yaflagc is in perfeft corref- .1
pondence with the general llrain of, your 5
letter. Whether your charge is corre&ly t
made, is now to be examined. n
I am ready to conlefs that my report f
fbtts lligrr.atizcd was, from the pseflure of 1;
» I ,
, huftiVefj, written in hade : but a revision ot
j it latisfies mc, neverthdefi, that it is ngt
I inaccurate in its flat/merits,
j You quote the pa'frag: in my report
j which has called forth this reproach ;it is
1 in these words: "That thtSre is but too
[ much reason to believe Mr. Ellicott's fuf
pgrions well founded, that an undue" influ
ence has been txercifed over the; Indians by
the officers of 1113 Catholic majesty, to pre
pare them for a rupture with the United
' States.'.' Arid then you fay that I mention
j the f'nirce of these " dreadful conjectures"
to be, a private lett-r from Mr. Sargent,
Secretary of the North Western Territory.
Here you are extremely incorreft ; as usual
when you undertake to recite my concluli
ons, and the fails and cifcumftances upon
which they are formed. _ It is from " a
view of the whole eorrtfpondence" referred
to in yny reports of the 10th of June and
.I'V'f July—On the intelligence received
by the Secretary of War—ind the private
letter from colpuel that I drew
the conclufiori you have quoted.
Mr. Ellicott formed his suspicions on the
spot, from what was passing before him ;
and he is not a careless or undifcerning ob
server.
Genefal Wilkinfon fays—" Letters from
all quarters announce the discontents and
menaring *fpe<sl of the Savages ; two white
men have beeri l'ecently murdered on the
Ohio belptff the Cumberland ; and the Sa
vages beyoofl the Mifiiffippi, aud those who
pass Maflac, make no hesitation to avow
their jjurpofr for war." he re
{?rs to a letter from colonel Hamtramck,
who commands the Uuited States troops
at Detroit, in which the colonel'fays—l
am pretty sure" that both the French and
Spaniards have emiflaries among the Indi
ans. 1 have it from indubitable authority,
that a large belt [by which is meant a
Speech] from the Spaniards is now travel
ling through the different nations mean
ing the nations within the territories of the
United States.
Colonel Sargent writes, it is true,"a pri
vate letter ; but it is to a publicofficer ; and
his situation as Secretary and Governor for
the time, of the North Western Territory,
would render it his duty to be vigilant for
its'fafety ; and his charafter vouches for
the accuracy of his information ; and you
do not cjueftion the truth of any* part of his
statement.
After mentioning that theSpaniardl wene
rc-inforcing their upper posts on the Mifli
lippi, that upwards of three. hundred men
had arrived at St. Louis and wereercfting
formidable works; he adds—" It likewise
appears, through various channels, that they
are inviting a great number of Indians of
the territory (meaning of the United-States,
North Weft of the Ohio) to cross th 4 Miffi
fippi : And for this express purpose, Mr.
an officer in the pay of the crown,
made a tour through all this country la ft
fall ; since which time "several Indians have
been sent on the fani« errand, and generally
furnifhed with plenty of cash to defray their
expenses"—A large party of Dela wares pas
sed down White River about the 6th of
May, on their way to the Spanish fide bear
ing the national fag of Spain, sent them from
St. Louis."
Lieutenant Pope, in his letter of May
9th, to the Secretary of War, fays, "There
have been several attempts made to draw on
the Indians upon my troops : I have fully
ascertained this fa<S, and demanded of the
Governor to have a principal aftor imme
diately brought to punishment, or sent out
of the country. He has been sent for, and
is now on board one of the Gallics, which
is now about descending the riveA"—And,
| hr, if you enquire, you will find that this
" principal aftor" (Rapelje byname) was
one of Governor Gayofo's agents. 1
These, Sir, are the grounds on which I
expressed the opinion, That there was but
too much reason to believe Mr. Ellicott's
suspicions well founded, that the officers
of Spain had exercised an undue influense
over she Indians to prepare them for
ture with the United States.
This detail, fir, strikingly shews how
little you have understood, and how entirely
you have misrepresented my reasoning on
this fubjeA. I leave you to reconcile your
refledtions on the British Minister and his
nation for their inhumanity inemployingthe
Indians in the American war, with yourjuf
tification of the Spanish officers at this time,
in securing the aid of the Indians in your
war with the British. " The Spaniards (you
fay) have fortified St. Louis and availed
themselves ef every'means o-f defence
which the country afforded meaning by the
ingenious exprefiion every means of defence
•which tit country afforded, the employing
of the Indians.
You are pleased next to charge me, in
yoijr customary stile, with " falling into, the
molt glaring inconfiflency," because I remark
that although, " it may be difficult to fay
whether this plan of exciting' the Indians to
direst hoflilities against the United States,
has been and promoted by any
of our own citizens ; yet it is certain that
one or more of those citizens have proposed
and taken measures to detach the Southern
Indians frohi the interests of the United
States, an 4 to destroy the influence of , the
public agents over those nations, and thus
to defeat the great objedts of their appoint
ment f, the chief of which is to preserve
peace.,'
Having quoted this fjaflage from my re
port, you ask is it possible to recon
"cile such evident contradictions ? On the
one hand the Spanish qfficers are those who
excite the foythgTn Indians against the Uni
ted States, and on the other you quickly 1
follow presuming, with fuffiient foundati
on in my opinion, that it may be some citi
zens of the United States." Allow me,
lir, to ask in my turn, how it was possible for
you net to fee thatherethereis no contradic
tion ? Is it not very possible that the Spa
nish officers might be courting the Chicka
faws, who V.ve above the Natchez, with
Ja-ge prefentt, aud be preparing the Choc-;
tavv9j who dwell along tile Natchez dictrift,
, aad the X)elawares, Shawanefe, Minmis,
jandtolher tri'oei dwelling in the territory
north-weft of the Ohio, for war against the
United while Mr. Blount and his a
gents were detaching the southern tribes of
CheroliteS and Creeks From the interefls of
the United States, and eventually to aid the
British in an enterprise against the Floridas ?
The * Cherokees and Creeks, yon might
have seen, were the only Indian nations
mentioned in Governor Blount'sletter. And
is it not very poffihle, if these two nations'
(hould thus he led to war against the Span'ifh
possessions, that they might not be excited
to tinea hoflilities agaipft the United States ?
• j And, therefore, that although Mr. Blount
i might contemplate the formeif, he might ab
j stain from the latter ? And is it not then
[ my cautions manner of speaking of this lat
ter, perfect ly corredt ?
I am happy to arrive at /durlaft observa
tion. And I wish it was not, lifce the reft,
exseptionable and iacorreft. These are your
words—" Refpedling the last article of your
■ ; report, I have only to observe, that altho'
you have confla'ntly assured me that govern
■ ■ ment,had not the lead information refpedl-
I ing the fubjeft of my representations, and
although the letter of Mr. 'Jackson, as
Georgia, appears to coincide with your ideas,
neveithelefa tiine has (hewn that 1 have com
plied with my duty by not rcpoGng on such
assurances. The plot is discovered, and no
body any longer doubts the expedition was
to have taken place."
] * The expression that " you complied with
; your duty in not reposing on such affuran
' ces" may mean that you thoi», ht the affu
; ranees deceitful, and, therefore, not meriting
\ belief. Perhaps you did not intend this.
! Perhaps you meant no more than that the
! government had been " remiss" in its duty,
in not pursuing with eagerness the trains of
your various fufpiciona. But I mail (hew
you that here (as in all other instances) your
criminations are void of foundation, in either
point of view.
The last article of the report refpe&s ge
neral Clarke, of Georgia, to whom you laid
you knew of a certainty that the English bad
made propositions in order to avail themfejves
of his influence in that state, with feme other
persons, for making a diversion or serious at
tack against Floridaand you add that '?yOu
do not doubt that in of your
information, the executive government will
take the proper steps Georgia also '(hould
not infringe the of neutrality." Here
you confine your requests to Georgia, that
(he might not infringe the laws of neutrality:
and my letter to Charles Jackson, esquire,
the diftrift attorney of that state, (hews that
the government took prompt tneafure6 to
defeat the projefl of general Clarke and his
affoeiates, if such a proieft exjfted. I sup
pose none did exist : You acknowledge that
the letter from Mr. Jackson coincides with
my ideas. Your " certain knowledge" of
an intended expedition in favor of the Eng
li/h from Georgia agaiyft Florida, under
geperal Clarke, you have never supported
by a (hadow of evidence. If you possessed
any evidence of the fa£l, it would be easy
to produce it. What you call your " cer
tain knowledge" could reft only on informa
tion, or the testimony of others, which
might be as falfe or as vague and inconclu
sive, as the information about the Canada
expedition ; which I hope I have proved,
to your never to have existed,
even in idea. Yet you declared to me that
you had " jujl reasons for fufpedting that
expedition was preparing on the lakes and
hence how can I avoid concluding, that
your " certain knowledge" in one cafe,
like your " just reasons" in the other, were
without a fufficient foundation.
But you fay " The plot is discovered,
and nobody any longer doubts that the ex
pedition was to have taken place." Strange
remark ! Just the reverse of it (hould have
beeu made. For although there is a dis
covery of Mr. Blount's plot, its extent is
by no means afccrtained ; and far from no
body doubting, probably every body doubts
whether the projefted expedition was to
have taken place. It was'not to be undfcr-'
taken but in conjunction with a Britiih force
—ai\d on the proposal of the expedition to
the Britiih government it was totally rejeft
ed. Even Mr. Blount, who, if the pro
je£t was adopted, expeStd to be at the bead
of it, ventures no farther than to fay he be
lieved that the plan would be attempted, but
if attempted, that it would uot be till the
" fall :" and consequently your in
March and April, for which, at the expence
of decency towards the American govern
ment, you take to yourfclf so much credit,
had then no just objttl. This zeal of yours
is displayed in the information you gave to
the baron de Carondelet, in March or A
pril, of the expedition supposed to be pre
paring in Canada against Upper JLciifiaria.:
yet you would now attempt'to juftify this
zeal by the plot of Mr. Blount ; although
this plot and the Canada expedition were
wholly distinct and unconnefted.
I (hall conclude this long letter with your
eleven positions, which you state with as
much .serious formality as if they were all of
them important, and all of.them supported
by fadls or just reasoning. But the details
I have given demoriftrate that these positions
are either unfounded, or firaple proportions
of not the fmallefl consequence.
These are your poiitious addressed to me
in your oii'n lipids.
" i ft. That on the 27th of Fehruary I '
gave you fufficient particulars refpefling the '
intended expedition, to have attraffced the
attention of this government."
Aftfwer. I have offered reasons to prove
that you gave me no particular t, but only
mentioned your suspicions, and that youpro
ir.ifed to give me your representations in
writing for which, of course, it was pro
per for me to wait.
" 2. That altho' to this verbal commu
nication, I added another in writing on the
2d of March, the PreGdent had not the least
knowledge of it on the 9th of the fame.
month ; and that without doubt y o u anuft
have had very powerful motives to prevent
you from communicating it to him."
Answer. I have accounted for the delay
•in a fatisfaftory manner. I have Ihewn that
1 had abundant reason to conclude your
fufpicionsti to be wholly unfounded, and for
attaching no fort of consequence to them.
The event demonstrates that I was right;
and that inflead of very powerful motives,
none were needed for a delay of only four or '
five days, or for a mueh longer period ; and
that to notice your naked suspicions at all,
was not an act of necessity, but of complai
sance. ,1 might with justice complain of your
delay to answer my letter of the 16th of
March, on a fubjeil of very high impor
tance to the United States, I mean the eva
cu. .ion of the polls. I will not fay, that
you were negligent—or " remiss"—but I
Will fay that for a whole month you omitted
to give trie your (hort and unfatisfadlory
anfweri The indifpofuion which' you aflign
as the cause of the delay, did not prevent
you from writing on othgr fubjetls—nor
long from going abroad.
" 3. That it does not appeat by the doc
uments presented by"the Secretary of War,
that government had given orders to the
military commandrrs to cause the territory
and neutrality of the United States to be
refpedted."
Answer. I have shown that none were
necessary to be given.
" 4. That you made to the English min
ister a communication which in my opinion
you ought not ; and that even if you tho't
it necessary, yon delayed doing it for two
months, that is from the 27th of February
to the 28th of April, although it refpedled
a mod urgent and important objeft."
Answer. On the 28th of' April, I in
formed you by letter that I had communi
cated to the Britiih minifler your suspicions
of an expedition preparing by the Engli(h
agcinft Upper Louiliaaa ; and as for up
wards of two months you expressed no dif
atisfaftion 011 account of this communica
tion, I might well conclude you did uot
think it improper. Nay in your letter of
July 11 tli, which I am- now answering, you
refer with apparent approbation to this ve
ry communication, connected with the de
claration which accompanied it to the Brit
i(h roinifter, that the President could not
consent to the march of any troops, either
British or Spanilh, through the territory of
the United ; and you ccnfider it as a " deter
minate difpofitioa" of the AmeVican go
vernment oa this point. I have also (hewn,
that admitting this communication to Mr.
Lifton to be proper, I did not delay doing
it for two months nor two weeks ; altho'it
refpe&ed at befl but an imaginary projeft.
" 5. That the Baron de Carpndelet
could very "well have received my letters,
without its necessarily following that his
had come to hand."
Aijfwer. I have (hewn that you did not
underftaad my > reasoning an this point ;
which went to prove that your answer of
the 17th of April to my letter of the 16th
of March, about the evacuation of the pods,
was wanting in candour.
" 6. That the Baron did n6t represent
Mr. Ellicott's not writing to him officially
as a complaint, but as an observation, and that
in fa£l he never liss done it in those terms."
Answer. I have (hewn that whether the
Baron's afTertion (hould have been called a
complaint or an observation was perfaftly im
material ; I meant to (hew it was unfound
ed ; and this you yourfclf adrriit.
" 7. That the proofs you allege to ex
culpate Mr. Ellicott refpe£ling his intentions
of taking the fort of Natchez by surprise
are purely negntive."
Answer. I offered only as negative
proofs. Yet when one complant or afTer
tion against Mr. Ellicott was kuown .and
acknowledged not to be true,' the negative
testimony of gentlemen likely to be well in
formed, would be deemed fufficient to bring
another, and in its nature very improbable,
complaint or affertian of the fame perfou, in
to discredit.
' " 8. That it is not merely pretences, but
very powerful reasons which have impeded
(the evacuation of the'Pofts, and the ruaning
of the boundary line."
Answer. The point of view in which I
have now exhibited the conduft of the Span
ifli governors relative to the evacuation of
the posts and <he running of the boundary
line IVffiould suppose rjiight convince you
that thecaufes which they have offered for.
the delay, are mere pretences : the Ameri
can citizens, to whom you have appealed,
have heen convinced only by reading the
printed documents, without any comments.
" 9. That the insinuations with which
you are willing to persuade the American
people that our arming is direfted against
them, are unjust as well as unfounded, a3
by Mr'. Blount's letter it is clearly demon
strated to be a precaution for the mere pur
pose of defence."
Answer. The grounds of my suggest
ions, which you call " insinuations" are de
tailed in this letter, and embrace £OO many
fa£ls and circumstances to be abridged :
permit rse to deGre you to review them. I
(hall only repeat, that nothing is more cer
tain than that Mr. Blount's letter has not
the remotefl reference to the fufpe£ted Ca
nada expedition ; which is ' your only pre
tence for reinforcing the polls in Upper
Louifiana—for calling the Indians to your
aid—for holding the poll's at the Natchez,
and Walnut Hilb—and for delaying to run
the boundary line.
" 10. That you evidently contradict
yotrrfelf, when on one hand you are pleaftd
to attribute to us the movements of the In
dians, and_in the very next paragraph you
fhewik might proceed from American citi
zens, as it a&ually does, according to Mr.
Blount's letter j and that he a&ed with the
knowledge and intelligence of the very fame
British minifler, in whose private notes,
ivifhcutfignature, and perhaps not of his cum
hand writing, you place such implicit confi
dence;"^
Answer. I have (hewn that there i.ivot
a Oiadcw gf coatr.fliclianin roy ■
on this fuEjca ) and par afferfYv; to the
contrary mil ft proceed only from \c.ur not
tindcrftanding them. You fay il at Mr.
Blount adted in this matter with the
knowledge asd intelligence of the Brit,
lfh mimfter. Ihts is not likely to he true.
It is in proof, hy other evidence than the
British miniller's notes, that he did not and
could not authorize the projefted expedi
tion againfl: the Floridas—and particularly
that one of his strong obje£tions againfl; it
was, that :t contemplated the employing of
the Indians ; although he thought it proper
to submit the project to the confi deration*
and declfion of liis government. Nobody
therefore will believe tha.t he authorized Mr.
Blount, or was even privy to his measures,
for preparing the Indians for war, 'Besides,
Dodtor Romayne, who may be presumed
to be well Acquainted with Mr. Blount's
plot, suggests that it is not the projedt of
fered to Mr. Lifton by Chifholm. Theft
are his words : " Mr. Blount is totally un
known to Mr. Lifton, % and so arc alt his
mews." And there is a passage in Mr.
letter which countenances the doc
tor's assertion, andindicates, that although
Chifholm and Blount had some communica
tions with each other, yet that their views
were not precisely.the fame. Mr. Blount,
in his letter to Carey, fays, " Where
Captain Chifholm is, I do not know
I left him in Philadelphia, in March,
aiid he frequently visited the minister and
spoke upon the fubje& ; but I believe he
will go into the Creek nation by way of
South-Carolina or Georgia. He gave out
he was going to England ; but I did not be
lieve him." These last words afford a pret
ty strong proof that they were not aftiivg
wholly in concert. Probably Mr. Blount
endeavoured to perfur.de Chifholm that he
would co-operate in the prosecution of his
feberae ; while at the fame time he might
have anothor of his own or in concert with
dodtor Romayne, and it and ready in the
event of things, to make" his advantage of
either ; whichever should c&r the best prof-,
pedt of fuccefß : Dodtor Romayne, you fee,
fays that Mr. Blount is totally unknown to
Mr. Lifton : But it is well known that Mr.
Blount was your frequent guest, and intimate
companion ; and that he was on this inti
mite footing with you the whole
time »hat you were reprefeiitirig to the gov
ernment, your fufpicicms of British expidi
tions. \et after the discovery of the con
fpira«y was made public, vou formally re
queftcd the American government to punish
him for so feandalous a crime. But feeing
that Mr. Blount was a citizen of Unit
ed States, and not a fubjeft of Spain, it
would have been decent in you to have left
him with his own government without in
terposing your advice. But e npecially whert
you knew that the President had laid hi*
letter before Corfgrefs ; and the twehoufe*
were deliberating on the mode' of punifhiog
him ; when the investigation had proceeded
So far that a ccu\irv>.tee of tSi§wvt£Ma
ported a resolution to exjjpl Mr. Bioun®
from ( the Senate ; and a committee of th«
Hcnfe had reported a resolution that he
should be in ptached for high crimes and
misdemeanors : For you then to interfere
was Angularly impoper j and it was such up
ofteDtatious. display o-f zeal, as under all the
known uretimflanees, fuggefU mpre than
one interpretation.
"11. That although in all.your official
communications, you have always manifest
ed to me that the American j'overnmerit
lenew of nothing which iadicated any foun
dation for my SuSpicions, Mr. Blount's let
ter clearly proves that I was perfectly
in the right."
Answer. This remark i« pcrfeftly inconse
quential ; fpr your communications exhibi
ted your suspicions. of projedted expeditions
only from Canada and -Georgia; and I have
(how*i that Mr. Blount's letter ha 3 no rela
tion to either.
I thought I had reached the end of your
criminations; but ia your concluding para
graph you accuse of ao " unj-jft partiality,"
meaniug, no doubt, towards the British min*
ifter and his nation. The details I have gi
en in this letter, I trust will abundantly
prove that this charge is as unfounded as it.
is indecent. Those details verify the repre
sentations of the conduit of certain Spanish
officers which are given in tny renort ps the
3d of July to the Prcirdent. If the truth
has excited any uapleafiint sensations, t'hofdf
only are ta blame whose injuroira adts obliged
me plainly to declare. Instead of this task,
I should have been happy to execute the
grateful uffiee of dating to the President the
goodfaith and amicable manner in which the
officers of his Catholic majesty had executed
the treaty of Fricndfhip, limits' and naviga
tion between our two-nations.
You think also that my report to the Pre
sident is not calculated toJlring then the bonds of
friendfbip unite Spain and America.—
Triendfhip, Sir, cannot fubiift without mu
tual confidence; and' confidence springs from
fmcerity. But the proceedings of the Spanish
officers, which are the fubjedt of this corres
pondence, have shaken the confidence of
the government and of the citizens of the
United States; and my report to the Pre
sident only exhibits a Summary of thoTe pro
ceedings; pr rather the plain and obviou*
conclusions from the authentic fadts and cir
cumitances detailed in the documents, then
and before presented to his view. And I
dare ve&ture to fay, that ayery independent
American.has from the Same premises drawn
the fame corclufions, t
Nothing, Sir, will give truer Satisfaction
to the government, and citizens of the Uni
ted States than to See such a change in .the
proceedings of the Spaoifh officers as will
restore confidence. The change would be
easy, and the effect certain. Let them "with*
draw their troops and garrisons from the terr.' T
lories of the United States. Let them commence
lindprofecute the ruuning of the boundary line.
Let them cease to flop, covtroul or regulate the
passage cf our citizens on the Mississippi, feeing
these have a right to navigate it with perfek
freedom —And lit them cease to fend Agents or
Emijfari.i amifig the Indium residing withinthe territories of the United States. When
they {hall do these things and the good
faith of his Catholic Majesty pledged in the
treaty renders their doing them an
fible duty) then we shall forget what is past;
our confidence will return; and with it that
beneficial intercdurfe and those friendly aits
by which neighbours may promote each o
thers interests, welfare and happiness.
And for such a ftatr of things, whatever
you may have imagined to the contrary, no
one more ardently wilhes, and 011 its arriv
al, no one will'more sincerely rejoice, than
Your obedient servant,
TIMOTHY PICKERING.
, 1
]>y this day's Mai].
NEW-Y O R K,"o&ober 19.
THE ENTERTAINMENT
CI VEN BY THE CITIZENS OE NEW.YORK TO
JOHN ADAMS,
PRESIDENT OF THp. UNITED STATES. '
In contemplating the rapid progress of an enlig(i- '
tened. nation to the fummic of public virtue arid <!
hanpinefs, there is perhaps no circumstance more '
defervingraf our notice and admiration, than tbat ,
which evinces the gratitude of a people toward
those illuflrious who have eminently
contributed to their prosperity. 1
Under any perind of time of which any annals L
are preserved, wc ('iffover this proper propanfity t
to reward diftii%;ui(hed and ufefu actions. The ,
mannar of conferring these marks of public grati
tude, has varied according to the state focie'y '
in which the a<3ion», which were its oV>je&, have c
been performed. The additional infentives which
a virtuous mind mud feel for devoting its bed ex
ertions to the public welfare, arc too obvious to ]
be particularly mentioned ; a d the advantage
which r/fult» to society, from a grateful notice of
them, i.« univcrfally acknowledge^.
Among a people poffefling To extensive privileg
es (and those privilegei so wrll secured) —in a na
tion also equally enlightened as ours, the danger of
exceflive adoration is reduced to a phantom. It
canntver be exereiled. No man can look for, or
obtain, more than the warm yet rational express
ion of the joy and gratitude of the Aaiericin
People.
Partial ebullitions, illy direfled, will occasion
ally occur among every people : But in a country
happily situated as ours, thsfe will b* seldom found
of \mericans, the result will in the end ba gene
rally favorable to tranquility and public virtue.
Indulging this idea, we take pleafurein noticing
the attention paid by our fellow citizens to the pre
sent Chief Magiftrstc of the Union.
Agreeable to arrangements, an entertainment
wa* yesterday given to the PreCdent, at th« New ti
City AfTembly Room, Broadway. p
Upwards of three hundred citizens were seated w
iat this entertainment, prepared by Mr. De La ,
Croix ; which for elegance and talle has never been
equalled in this city.
The tables, elegantly disposed, presented a tout
entcrnlle which woOtt vie with any effort in any E
quarter of the world. They c»nfi(led of—l- A
beautiful Bower of Trees arranged along the table,
, repi'cfenting within, the principal Cities of Ameri- f r
ca, united with a Garland of Roses. »d. A mag- t j,
tiificcnt display in Sugar, at the head of the table, (j
reprcfenting a flrong golden column, with the in- m
fcription, " Conftitotion." On the said column ln
was fixed the figure of Wisdom, having in one
hand the bust of President Adams, and in the oth- mm
era garland of rofesrntwining sixteen columns, re- ~
presenting the States of America, with this inferip
tion, " May thele Rofcs which unite you, he al
ways without Thorns the other gatland, wflich
united the Cities of America, was fapported by
Prudence and Fortitude.
In several different places were disposed rem
ple*. analogous to the feftivity of the day. =■■
'The other fubllantial appendages were fach as E:
would be expelled : they gave entire fatitfa&jon
The chair was filled by Rich Varick, esq. Mjy
or of the city. He was supported by Maj. Gen.
Morris, Mr. Lawren e, Senator fr>m New-York,
Mr. Dayton, Speakerof the H'.»feof Rcprefenta- t!e
tivesa Maj. Gen. Gates, Brigadier Gen. Hughes, ha
and other diQinguifkcd characters. ;
After Dinner the fotlwiving TOASTS were etra.it.
1. The United States of America'.—Profperi- ,
ty to their Agriculture, theip-Manufac- tC
\ tures, and their Commerce. P' ;
2. The Senate and House of Reprefenta- an
tives. May they in their deliberations na
be guided by the best interests of their -pj
Country; and may they receive the cor
dial support of their Constituents. t0
3. GEORGE WASHINGTON—May in
he long enjoy the Patriot's best reward—
the affcßions of a grateful and a happy Peo
ple. V
4. The State of New York.
5. John Jay—Governor of the State.
6. The Nations in alliance with America:
May existing differences be speedily term
inated ; and the bond of our
be more firmly strengthened.
7. The Marqjus La Fayette. —May sing
the cloud of fbrrow which has lately ob- pari
fcured his days be soon dispersed; and
may the Sun of Happiness gild the re
maining hours of his life. I Fi
8. KOSCIUSKO. May private Friend
ship and public Honor sooth the wounds Ro
he has received in the cause of Freedom.
9. PUBLIC GRATITUDE. May it R°
ke ever the reward of the firm and dinfi
terefted Patriot.
jo. PUBLIC GOOD.- May it be the
invariable'purfuit of each Americaif Citi- Joh
reo.
11. PUBLIC SPIRIT, While it rouses Re<
usagainft Foreign Hostility; may it also Ad
secure U3 against Foreign Intrigue.
12. The State of Maffachufets; our elder
Sifler in tbe cause of Freedom. May she I
continue to be the Nurse of Patriots I
and of Heroes.
13. The Nations of the earth. United by
one common Nature, may they feel that Fiv<
they have but one common interest
- Happinefe of eacji other.
14 The genuine Spirit of Liberty —which
breathes peace aud Good Will to all man
kind 1 »
Ij. The heroes who have fallen in defence
of American freedom. Taught by their
- great example, may we learn that our •
lives and fortunes are ever at the difpefal Pub
of our country.
j6. sHE FAIR OF AMERICA.
VOLUNTEER TOASTS.
By the President of the United States. y, "
Prosperity to the citizens of the state of
New York.
By the Mayor (Chairman) > I C 3
After the President had retired, will
John Adams, President of the United for J
State*. j St
/
When By the C. Sands)
good A fpesdy peace to all the world,
in the By the Speakdr of the House of Reprefen-
Jifpen- tatives
spaft; The Farmer of Mount Vernan, in his
t that retirement.
iy aits By Mr. Edward 1 Livingfton,
ach o- The ColofTus of American Freedom—■
ess May it bestride the commerce of the world,
atever and like that of Rhodes, never fall but in
y, no a coneuflion of- Nature,
arriv- By General Hughes,
than The memory of Peyton Randolph, the
President of the firft American Congress.
—■» Among the many injlitutions in this city, the
Reading Room lately ejlalltjled is not of the
' baft utility. Here the Man of Science may
find a small though handsome colletiiort of valua
ble books to entertain him ,* the Politician can be
amply gratified in p'ru/ing the mofl valurble
TO new/papers of the United States on their firfl
q.j; S arrival in the city, and obtain the e'arliefl infor
mation of every Uing that is pei/fmg. Where
nligh- Can a njjintsr ' s evening be more tyfully or a
e arid grerably spent than in the Room,
more where a delicious repajl is prepared for the
i that amateurs of literature ? Strangers also may here
sP en d a " half hour or more to advantage, and
■ at a very small expence. From the promiftng
nnals appearance, there is reason to expeS that this
infity new inflitution will be of great utility, and re-
The ward the exertiorls «f the Proprietor, who leaves
fcie'y vn <loneto render his Room pleafiing and
have comfortable. JUVENIS.
vhich ,
ft ex- PITTSBURGH, Oftober 14.
"ta'e eturn ofth eGeneralEle&ionheld on Tuef
e'eof ' or Alleghany county.
SENATOR.
ileg- John Woods '43 2
1 na- Thomas Morton 523
er j ; f ASSEMBLY.
or George Wallace \ 1247
ireff- James G. Heron 1028
rican Samuel Ewelt 942
John Lucas 653
n°trT Tbe tWO h !£ heft in votes are elefted.
nu ,d Iveflmoreland County.
ronfc ASsyiBLY.
ene- Abraham Hen Sicks
Jacob Painter
c,n s John Wiight
pre ' We havejuft received the returns of the
nsrit eleflion from Washington and Green coun-
ties, which, with Alleghany county # com
pose the diftriift forelefting a Senator—by
at « which it appears that John Woods, Esq. it
jeen by a majority of near 700 votes.
tout WASHINGTON, Oilober 10.. ]
any Extruß of a letter from Brownfvil/e, dated
' A Oftober %. 1797. ]
be, " Mr. Purflie of this place, arrived yesterday
from New-Orlean, in 4? days.—He reports
' a S- that the Spaniards have given up the posts to the
hlc > United States—that Mr. Ellicott and the Com
ln" mi/Tioners are novr running the boundary line ;
IHln and that governor Gayofo is now governor of 1
°l e New-Orleavs. 6
)th- —■
i Xj)c c&awttt. 1
kf PHILADELPHIA,
, m . FRIDAY EVENING, Octobui to.
" - 1
as Extraft of a letter from Wafhingtoncoun
ly. Virginia, dated Oft. 1, 1797.
" On Mr. Blount's arrival, im Ten
|ta - ne ffee, a few of his partisans efiayed to
>es, hare him brought forward as a candi
date for a Senator. This gave an oppor
. tunity for the citizens to fee several gen-
tlcmen unmasked. The final trial took
place last week, and Judge Anderfon g
ta- and Mr. Jackson were easily elected Se- ii
>ns nators in the room of Blount and Cocke. P
1" This is considered as a fatal overthrow I
to the ci-devant Governor and his plans „
ay in Tennefiee." fa
j- 1 1 . fr
tO- Til! only intermenti since our tcjl report, are
Adults. Children. ar
St. Mary's Church I o
Third Presbyterian o / I 01
City Hospital 3 o 01
n- Total 4 1 th
jl Total number of interments on the 10th Gflo
v ber, 179 j —FIFTY ONE. „
Wiihin the lafl 14 hourn we cannot learn that a .
iy (ingle cafe of the Yellow Fever has occurred in any in
b- part of the city north of Sprucc-ilreet. w
)d , so
c . CITY HOSPITAL REPORT, th
From 19th'to 20th Oft. in the morning. co
1- Admitted, since last report,
Is RobertElhany,Southwark committee room, co
Discharged since last Report. 0
it Robert Bayne—admitted 16th inft. ar
i- Died since last Report.- lat
when admitted I how long ill previ- te ,
le | ous to admittance, go
i- John
;s Remaining last report. 38
0 Admitted finee I pri
- T1
r , 39 ha:
ic Difchargea I am
;s Died 1 —l 2 for
V
it Five of whom are dangerous. an<
- In'erred since last report. at
From city and fuburbt 2 En
h Hospital 1 1 Fri
1- a 1
Total 3 har
e S-rrpHEN Girard. bot
r (Signed) Cal'kb Lownis.
r ■ John Connelly." goi
1 Published by order of the Board, im]
Wm. MONTGOMERY, int,
Chairman pro tem. ren
Cj* Aflated Meeting of the American Phi- "! a
j. lofophicul Society will be held at their Hall at °
6 o'clock this evening. Friday, OS. 20. C ° l
} Cj" The bufmefs of the CUSTOM-HOUSE, wri
will from this day be tranfaßed at Chester It i
1 forfome time. an)
j Sept. 30. ver
0 I The Commiflioners have received the ft
lowing Donations, since last puLlicatioi
fen- viz,— dolt, ct
From John Guillemard, Efo. 1
(per Philip Nicklin & Co.') j 100
From the following citizen's of
1 luladelphia, now refuting in
'— Montgomery county, vii.—.
rid, James Pemberton 50
in Samuel Morris" 50
Isaac. Parrifh " \ 20
James Creffon 20
the , Thornas Morgan ' ?o
!- Andrew Lenan j
Frederick Haylpr . 2
the John E. Creflon . 3
the John Cave 6
lay Luke W. Morris 20
m- Thomas Shoemaker 20
be William Prichett 10
lie Israel Morris, jun. 20
rfl Alexander Wilcoeks 40
>r- From inhabitants of Carlisle, viz.
?re John Montgomery 10
a- James Hamilton ij
"1 > T. Duncan 1 r
he D. Watts 10
' re William Lyon 10
id Robert Davidfon 10
"S James Duncan 10
>is John Creigh 10
■e- Robert Miller iq
<es Samuel A. M'Cafky 10
id Dost. C- Nifbit ' 6
George Kline 4
Samuel Pofllethwaite 6 60
Charles Cooper , 3 30
f- John Hughes ' 6
James Armstrong jo
Hugh Wilson 3
Charles Bevard 2 20
Edward Magauran 3
James Givan 2
John Douglas 3
William Miller 30
George Logne 1 «»•.' 3
Samuel Laird 4
Thoma3 Foster 2 20
Ephraim Steel 4
Joseph Hayes 3 30
John Holmes 6
Charles M'Clure 6
David Irvine 4 -
e Lemuel Guftme j
1- Jacob Crever I
James Lambertoa 4
y John Noble 1
s William Levis 2
William Irvin« 10
Cash 2
From Radnor (per Simeon Mat
</ lach) 10 32
From sundry persons in the neighborhood
of the Gulph Mill, in Upper Merion, 9
e half barrels of buckwheat meal, 2 ditto of
rye meal, 24 bushels of potatoes and 4 of
; turnips.
f From John Haworth, I additional load of
potatoes—John Jones of Montgomery,
12 bushels of potatoes and turnips.
From inhabitants of Radnor, 22 bushels of,
potatoes, 6 do of turnips, 18 fowls, 1
piece of bacon, cwt. of buckwheat
meal, i-J do. of rye flour, 3 io. of corn
"meal.
From inhabitants of Wilmington and Bran
dy wiie, 15 barrels of middlings, and 2of
Indian meal.
EDWARD GARRIGUES, Sec'ry.
COMMUNICATIONS.
I
There is a great deal of jargon in the
style of our anti-federal faftion. They fay
a free government is fupperted by opinion ;
they pretend to be friends to the Federal
government, and yet are inceflantly labor
ing to destroy th/s good .opinion which the i
people entertain of it.
Our government is representative ; to i- '
bufe the admiriiftration isto abuse the people :
who eleA the representatives ; and yet the ;
fadtion who do abuse it, call themselves
friends of the people ! 1
The British government is strong ; our 1
antifederal faction hate a " strong govern- j
ment," and yet they aflail the adminiftrati- <
on with weapons exadly similar to'thofe em- i
ployed by the minority in England against t
the British government. t
The faftion pretend to be friendly the 1
Constitution of the United States, though r
inimical to the adminiftralion ; but their c
weapons of attack against it, being proper c
for* a strong government only, it is evident
that if they succeed our coaftitution falls of t
course. c
This faftion wish either to subvert the f
constitution, or get themselves into power, d
One event perhaps involves the other ; both a
are to be equally dreaded. In the d
latter alternative, it is not presuming too d
much to fay, that they would make the d
, government strong enough, without consult- 1<
ing the people. n
The Federal interest has always been the w
prop and support of the union of the States, w
There is not a spark of jealousy extant that o
has not been struck from the anvil of the ti
anti-federal faftion This faftion speaks a tl
foreign language, it is in no meafurc assimi
lated to tb« spirit and genius of our country. r<
It i 9 nourished on our misfortunes abroad, Ih;
and droops under our union and prosperity p;
at home. The justice done to our claims in tl
England is ablow at its exiftence,and should pi
France (follow the British example and make fc
a righteous compensation, faftion would w
hang itfelf in despair—a eonfummation in ts
both cases devoutly to be wiflied- '
The Aurora has suggested to the French a<
government, the policy of interdifting the w
importation of fifh from the Eafteni states fii
,into the French islands. A correspondent w
remarked on the occasion, that the Aurora fc
man must have believed that the French pur- tc
chafed the fifh when they did not want, or b
could do without it. The eastern fifhermen al
are however just as much obliged to the
writer for his friendly hint, as if they did. th
It is not expeftedthat France should make th
any facrifice—we know she ne
ver did. When she cr4n.fr cur fifh ft e will of
sol- , buy it. That is <Joing at /nuoh as others
tion, do, and France vrill never do more, or lei's.
cts. m
5 Wlien firft the murdering Jacobins let
. loose their desolating thunder on the Co
rinthian pillars ofjociety, and the civiliza
tion of the world, then fell, suddenly, into
jargonic oonfufion, all the ufeful and long
> known diftiflftions of poll died life. Every
thing became sophisticated, and nothing any
known by its right name.
Opposition to order and to law, became
Rtpullipanifm.
Anarchy, Democracy.\
% Riot, debauchery, afTault and battery, I
and murder, Liberty and Equality.
Licentiousness, atheism, and universal
carnage, the Jge of Reason.
Was it not eno.ugh that so large and so
fair a portion of the earth Jay prostrate in
theduft, and bleeding at every pore, but
while these portentous omens of difiblution
(tared us in the face, we must extend over
these temperate and happy plains that fame
curse of. contention and civil (trife, which
had reduced " vine-covered hills and gay
regions," to a den of wild beafts,^—a horde
of human monsters prowling round the earth
in search of new objefts for devoration.
Pad the murderous ftrife of a furidus re
volutionary contell, —delivered from a heart
rending war of more then seven years, during
which the loud roaring thunder rattled in
our ears, from the arms of kindred foes ;
enjoying liberty and happiness, in all that
60 perfeftion which can be realized by man ;-r
3° infuTated from the mad passions and senseless
contests of the reft of mankind j what had
we to do with their revolutions, their liberty ! ■
and equality, their new-fangled reason, their'
20 atheism or their fanfculottifm ? ,We have \
idly fuffertd the barriers to be frittered a
way, which kept all these evils aloof from
our land, and with the fury of a horde of i
30 wolves they now come rushing on, to embo- 1
dy all the weak and giddy throng of idlers, !
ignoramuffes and knaves, agaiuft order, vir- !
20 tue, and true liberty.
Let us then in nautical phrase, clap ajlop- r
30 per on the growth of foreign heresies, left a
while we add our " mite of more" to that T
destroying torrent, which" has " too much 1
already," we enrol ourselves on the fame
black lift with those whose <#hormities must 3
be wiped away in atonement tremendous and <
severe. TIMON.
TRANSLATION.
From the Paris Paper called L'Eclair.
Petition of Mathieu Dumas, member of r
the council of five hundred, in the name
'j
•d | minister of war.
9 " Citizen representatives, in undertak- r
ing to present to you the remonftrarice of
■>f my honorable friend, general Duportail,
former minister of war, against the inferip- •
of tion of his name on the odious lifts of pro- ' J
si fcription, I am aftuated by a fraternal fen- g
timent, I fulfil a cyvic duty. g
as " The cafe of this citizen renders necef- ~
1 fary a decision of the legislative body, fee
it ing that, on the one hand, no law concern
u ing emigration, even those the most barba- A
; roufly ezpojl faffo, can be applied to him
1- with the least appearance of justice, and £
)f that, on the other hand, he cannot be w
comprized in any of the exceptions con- OI
tained in these very laws, in as much as the f f
forced sense, which is fought to be given to in
, the cxprefiion of the constitutional ad, j,j
1 abandonment of the country, has never been r0
e fixed by law. a( ,
y " Louis Lebegue Duportail, minister f u
; of war at the close of the feflion of the Ln
il constituent aflembly, and at the commence
- ment of that of thci legislative aflembly, U r
e was decreed in a state of accusation in the ~u
i night between the 15th and 16th of Au- cu
- gust : he partook in that proscription the a n
Cj fortune of Tarbe and the unfortunate Du- jsj",
e ; port Dutertre.
s " Strong in his own innocence, he wifti- Q t
ed to render himfelf Hp to iraprifonment in pi;
r the Abbaye; I was fortunate enough to mc
- prevent him. An old domefl-.c of the brave^
- general Gouvion, or rather his faithful
- friend, the citizen Moutonnier, who came
t to Paris in search of me, after the death of L;
that brave general, offered to Duportail, in jj e ,
: Paris, even in the very midst of th« volca- | yol
1 no, an asylum which' his generosity, his p] e
courage and his intelligence, rendered inai-. ]. n
r cefliblc to the tefearches of tyranny. _ e
t " General Duportail owes his fafety to t| o
: the severe precaution of breaking off all l ar
connexion, both with his family and his anc
friends ;he remained in that obfeure retreat
during twenty-two months and sixteen days,
and did not attempt to leave it, until the (-
decree which, afiailing with the stroke of of 1
death the crime of bofpitality, alarmed his Thi
delicacy, poisoned "all his gratitude, and no . at
longer permitted him to jeopardise his be
nefaftor..
H He left Paris the 3d of May, 17,94,
with the passport of an American officer,
who was happy in lending his afliftance to 0
one of those officers who had the most con
tributed in conquering the independence of
the United States.
" Before he left France, Duportail en- > wkj
registered in a public aft, deposited in the M
hands of the notaries Hua and Martin, in
prefencc of eight witnesses, a protest against
the violence to which he found himfelf com- jj :l
pelled to yield, and made, as an accused, a f
solemn reserve of his rights. You will hear i° ree
with still greater interelt," citizens represen
tatives, the reading of this piece, because q
has fiuce formed the basis of an aft of
accusation against the courageous magistrate
who received from the minister this proses- A
civic faith; the unhappy notary wi,h
was, a short; time aftfcr, dragged to the 2.
fcaffold for having attested that noble and
touching complaint of a citizen abandoned T
by the laws, and who protested against the ''"f.'
abandonment of his country.
" General Duportail arrived in America
the 16th July, 1794, 'and has not left it at
this time. . }£
" A few days after his departure, two
of his brothers were accused by Fouquier sc
>C,. " " V,\ ■ • • •*>
<• . * 1
tT 3 BWI !? ° f to ** gen*
? ''J h °, m the Tupped t0 l c
» Vendee, men, arms, and money ; ther
let vrere dragged to the fcafibld."
Co
r. \ l ' f ' a ' on W« return to Maryland
in o uom the Nafches, general David Form
-g late of JerTey. He j*a, a gentleman J
Zl fate at r P r'' ty a ' ,d urin^our
any late Revolutionary war, he rendered most
efiential and nhportantTervices, in a mili
"ne 277K'n5' SCOUnt^-d --«
ever proved lumfelf a more firm and" decid
ed patriot (not in the prottitute uiterpreta-
T,V t><?.word, b»t in the genuine sense
of it) than gen. Forman. He loved hi»
countp y> his patriotism was-truly Spar
ta». I„ a s ocial v ; eW) no man
° rr r^KT n ° !1 L more fn ' e »<%—none more
in hospitable. He was .generous, kind and
,ut beneficent to the poor-forbearing to those
on within his power ami he was\ RoßD ?
/Cr bu V , hls P r:de was that of conscious diVnify
*" d honor »~'t was that pride which P Z
ch ierres a man eommiffion of a mean
-7 "w S : ~A-' S h ' S T J fpirit drained a difhonor
de able adion. His prida was worthy of
th imitation. In a domestic view but l,t
tbofe he ha S left behind him fay j£t J
-e- Hulband—what a Father— what a Mailer
rt- —what a Friend he was ! ! !
~>g -wan..
in GAZETTE marine LIST.
at PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
7 (h>p Ganges, capt . Greene, is fafe arri
' * , Th °'r 1,1 V 9 ,V eks from Ben P al >
rilY " g " ' Ca,rutta thc of
ty Jnne W hjings no interesting iute!lig;ni-.e. Se
•ir" Xfrf'tt * r" w ' cre fitting out tojoin
ve '' !! n r a , T et ex P e di'ion, supposed
to he intended ro talcelVlanilla.
a " C»t. Greene toutVd at St. Helena on th,.
m jift °f August. where feventesn pafonirers who
of had embarked with him at Calcutta, intending
0 . for Eirope. l,y way of Amfrica, left the Gin-
S) ge«o„ being mfnnneo that war hat) broke out
r- between United States and France. On
Saturday last, off Sinnepuxent Capt. Greene
fell in witly the frigate Thet.s, Captain Cnch
» ran, who conduced h,mfelf ir, th, m ost agree
ft able manner towards Captain Gr eqe, and the
it panengers, who are Metes. R. Willing C
h Franci, and John Gneft, ..f rhi- city. A lhip'
e from New-York and a veflel from Salem, had
arrived at Calcutta. '
j Arrived at the Fort,
Ship Niger, of 24 guns, Thuaris, P. au .
Brothers Henderfon K Amsterdam
g 12 Majejlre, P. au Princ,
f , Cape Francois
e ochr. Thomas, IVood, % Port au Prince
r Sincerity, Mofteiti, Curracoa
Harmony, Nichols, , Aux Cayes
. "'rived at Wilmington, oHoler 14Mr.
x *- -*<" l™"
n S i hr ' rhomas < armecl 1 2 fx pounders, Bn
. J letter of marque, from Martinique.
■Arrived at Nnu-Y'ork. Da+s*
Brig Friends, Hughes, Windforßay 18
oloop Patience, Willis, Philadelphia
BOSTON, O&ober 14.
On Thursday last, Stephjn Smith, aliss
Allen, was exeauted on the common, for
' burglary. He was attended by the Rev.
Drs. Stillman and Thatcher ; the latter of
: whom addrefled the Throne «f Mercy, in
■ one of the most fervent, petrinent and as
■ feftmg' prayers ever delivered. Before be
-1 ing turned off, Smith acknowledged the
- justice of his fate, warned the many, sur
rounding fpedgtors of the vices which had
accelerated his death, and appeared to be
fuitSbly affe&ed with his fitnation, After
hanging the usual time, he was'cut down,
juried, and, we learn, was afterwards taken
up for diffe&ion. Smith, in a confeffion
Published yesterday, which is said to be ac
curate, mentions his being born in Virginia,
and committing many thefts there and in'
New Brunfwick. He confeffes that he set
fire to the 1 houses of Mr. Turner and Mr.
Goldfoury, in which he had no accom
plices ; and no other objedl than to procure
money. He was 28 years old,
LITER ART.
We hear that the Rev. Mr. Stearns, ol
Lincoln, is about publishing a poem, enti*
tied " A Lady's Philosophy of Love." Be
yond the precept of Horace, or the exam
ple of Pope, it has lain 23 years, " un
knowing and unknown," in the closet of
the author.—From the established reputa
tion of the author, as a genius and a fcho- '
lar, the public expe&ation is greatly raised,
and we doubt not will be amply gratified.
A MEETING
OF th« SELECT and COMMON COUNCIL*
of the City of Phila»elphi», will be held on
1 hurfday in xt, at eleven o'clock in the moraine,
at the State-house.
By order,
wllfAM H. TOD, '
Cleik of the Se!e£l Council. '
EDWARD J. COALK,
Clerk 01 the Common Council-
QA - 20 - dta6
For SAVANNAH,
tHL FAST SAILING SAIP
Swirt Packet,
Patrick Gribbin, Mafler.
N °W lying at Smith's whnrf,
: above Rsce-liieet. Is haedfome
ly aDcommodated for j,fllfen«rer3, and will fail on
Saturday, 18th isft. For freight or pafluje, app y
to the on board, No. 95, South i'ruiit
ftreet, or of, the fubferibers, at Frantford.
A s . Sff y. Frazier.
OA. 10. dt?Bth
Wants a Place,
AS WET NURSE, a young, healthy Womon,
with a frefh of milk. Appiy to the Printer.
19 ' 3 t*
No T I (TET"
THE OfHcts of the Department of War are Cor
the pr sent removed near to tht Falls of the
W) t on the Ridge Roa<J.
Septftmher 4. dtf
The Healtlj-OfEce
IS removed to the City-Hall, and i? kept open
and day, where persona having bo£n< fs may
apply. Wm. ALLEN, Heaith-Ollicer.
4- dvftrn ported infhe faip Man ce st er,
BbhjAm'ih Shkv/ell, Hafttv,
From Bdurri.eaux, and for iale by the lubkfiber,
No. 11 Walnut St ect.
Bonrdcaux Brandy "1
trifh market Gkrct in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, in j do. f Drawback. L
Bauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatreyd. t '.^
wyo HAS FOR SALE. J'he
f,Kerry V/ine in pipes and quarter caflcs fhc
Rota do. - c
Pimento in bags
4.00b bulhels Ltverpool fait. ■
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder, at the houle of' Mr.
Wflliatn Evans, the sign of the Indian
Queen, in th'e city of Baltimore, on the 25th
day of Oftobcr next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
About seven thousand acres of land,
(be property of \Villiam Bell, of I hfladelpiiia,
lying between Xeifter's-town and, Wcitrtiinfter,
sommonly cAlled Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road runs through a cor.frlerable part of
these Unds) the tr<(rt begins about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a f»w hchdred yards
of f.jd •Rrifter's-town, and extends to the dif
tauce of abwut twenty-three miles from Balti- |
more, and lies on the main tails of Patapfjco i
rjver, from three to I'our miles thereon. W ill
be fold ingrafts of one hundred and fifty to ;
three hundred acre. There is a krge propor- I
tii rt of meadow and v ood land on eai'h tra£f, ;
Tome of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine gnfs.
AL SO
A tra& of seven hundred' acres of ?
land, callied Clover Farms, withtft five mile» of ry
Bladenlhurg, esteemed very Kood for Grass, kn
Richard Ponfonby, of Rladenlburgh, will (hew b<?>
this land to amy person inclined to purchile.
ALSO, lat<
A traa of land o«f about rhree hun-,. ™
dred and thirty a«r«s; within about two ijiiles j ol
and a half 6f the President's houfsin-the Fede- j
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a itne __
high profpedt, from which rnav be fcen the :
tfcty of \\'afliington, Bladcnfburgb, Alenatvdiia
and -a part of Oecrgc-town, and many miies
dowo the Po.tomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfoit
by, ©f Bladenlburg, will also fbew this land. >je
A liberal trcditwilf be given for the gieateft -i_
part of the purchase money. Jhe terini will J.
be macie known on the day of sale. tip
May' X w 3 m a Pi
— ; *— dy
Just Received/
irom Batavia coi
a few Boxifsof Spices, consisting of ,
Nutmegs, CJlo*esand wace s l 01
For sale t)Y , PV
WILLIXGS& FRJNCIS,
Pcnn- ftrcgt- p*
» a y 3<» '' ' p,
Davis's Laiv Bvok Store,
ATo. 3*19, Hlgh-Slrctt. pa
GEORGE DAVIS,
BE'INC; Imtfcd for fonie time past in prcpira- "
tions for removing into his prafent house, has f .
b«n under the of poftpfipuiguntil this day p
infotmiug the gentlemen of the Par genefally thro'
the Ihiitbd Sbu», that his fpnug importation of
J* now arranged and reaJy for sale, on
" termsthat he trills tvill m tide him to the like pre- _
freence he has experienced far fcveral years part.
Cataldgues, v > combining the most varied collco
ti6o ever imported irtto this country, iltc printed
and-will be delivered <>n application.
* aW 6w *
City Comtnijioners' Office, p
June il) 1797.
I"N purfuince of an ordinance from the felciS *
andrommon eauncits, paflcd the aid day of "
Mav l«ft» appointing the city cwfiimifiiotiers,
4nd orefcribioe their duties, feiilion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the. city is divided into five dittriiU, |
Mch to be under the fuperiotendauce of one of h
the city commiiTicfners, whois to be individually
relponfible for the cleanlfnefs of the fame, and t
art as follow- r
DriftriiSl No. I. From the south fide of Ce- e
dar-ftrcet, to the north fide of Spmce-ftreet, un
rtbe fuperintendencc of Nathan Boys,
i. From the north fide of Spruce-ftrett, to
the north fide of Walnut-flrcet, under tbe fuper
intendencc of Hugh Roberts. a
3. From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide of Hfgh-ftreet, under the superintendence ot -
Joseph Claypoole. J
4. From the north fide of High-nreet, to the
north fid.- of Mulberry street, under the super- 1
inßndsnce of Willijm Moulder.
r. Froib the north fide of Mulberrv-ftreet to
the north fide of Vine-street, under (he fuper
infendence of Nicholas Hicks.
Thecleaningof HTgh-ftreet to be in ( common. j
A flatcd meeting of the city commilljon
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High- •
street, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock.
July r*. colnl ;
Stands for^ Draymen, tsfc.
In hurjuanet of an Ordinance from tbeSclcfJ and
Common Courtc h, bearing date tbe lid day of
April, 1797. providing for the appointment of
QHy*Gomm]ffioncrt, (Sc. A eel. the l{ th.
THE following places are fixed upon by the
said City Commifiioners for Stands for
Draymen and tljeir Horses.
In Vine-street, eastward of Front-street, on
b °slirafras, High.Chefnnt and Walnut-fttreets,
4aftward ot Front-street, on the north fide only.
Mulbcrry-ftreet, south fide from i ront to
Third-street. '
Front-ftreat, east fide from Vme-ftreet to
Elfrith's alley- • _ „ .
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al
fcv to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Water-street, weft fide from the north end ot
Stomptr's or JWoorr's stores to Pine-street.
Pcnn-ftreet from Pine to Ce-Jar-ftreet, weft
Drawbridge, north fide, east bf Front-street.
Spruce, -Pine and South streets, east of Frost
street, south lide.
Dock-llreet, between Walnut-street and the
Bag stone crossings, east fide, opposite George
' Second-street, between Saflafras and Vine
ftref weft fide*
•Fifth-ftreet, fide from Chefnut to Mul-
Sidfafras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-street,
or horse to stand within ten feet of
a "iSi)S FOR HACKNEY COACHES
Pinc-ftrect, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
fi, Fif'h-ftreet, between Chefnut and V/alnut
dlreet, north fide, between Third and
Fourth streets. \
A Literary Treat. o
ffujl puMj/bed * handfomtly printed on writing
paper, pries l donar, or rt
A new edition of that popular ani one?
work, vMitled * from
"-pHE FORESTERS, an Aiperican Tale ; bei% upw .
L a l'equcl to the hillory of John bull, the Clo- j llin |
thier—ln aft.riesof letter* to a friend, with the ad- -j-j
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political
Iraniadlious in America. S _ en
Thii following extras from the Clavis Allegorica, ni3t j (
shews the principal chavailcrs that art* introduced:
John Bull, the kingdom of I.ngUlid
Hi» Mother, the Or,urdi of tngland
His Wife, thf SfaliaiuiSt Hun
His Sifter Ptg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland wltn
Lewis, the Kingdom of France
• His Miftrefc, the Old Conllitution oil
His new Wife, th-- National Rcprefentation Se
Lord Strut, the Kicßdotei of Spain ,
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch RtpuMlc
The Franks, the French Republic
The Farefters, the United states of Amerit3 ,
Robert Lumber. Ncw-Hawpihire
John Codline, MafTacbufetts v £
Humphrey Plowfharc, ConneSicut g cy(i
Roger Carrier, Rhode.!(land
Poter Bull Frog, New-York > x . j- r . o^
Julius Csefar, New-Jersey ' S(
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
Cafiimar, Delaware
I Walter Pipcwood, Vn ginia
Hi» Grandson, George Wafhingtoti yJsJ
1 Peter Pitch, Nfcrth Carolina j[ I
Charles Icdigo, Soutk Carolina ;[
George Trolly, Georgia t ; le (
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont _jj ei
Hunter Longknife,' Kentucky , g
Black Cattle", Negro Slaves cc ; v
Rits, B peculators # to t
Mother Carey's Chickens. Jacobins . (
.Jj" Thi« popular and entertaining satirical hifto- c
ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bbl
knap. It hasagr«at (hare of originality and a- lu(|1
bQHnds with genuine humour. It is continued .
down ttf the present time, and ch*ra<fterifes those
late political tranfaflions which have caafed so g
muqh uneafinei's in America.
•| Sold by H. and P.RICE, Bookseller, No. 16, 1 (
South Second Street, ahd No. 50, Marke' ftj«ct. }
I June »6. § and
; LAW BOOKS,
• • DCV
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. P. RiCiL, Bookseller
No. 16, S')uth Second, and No. 50, Market street, pj
HAVE just received by the hte arrival* Irom
London and Dublin, their fpritg importa
tion, confiding of a variety of the lattft and moll
approved which, added to those alrea- qi
dy on hand, forms the mod extcnfive collection cv
er offered for sale in this country. They thei efore . j.t c
beg leave to notiy, that from the r.acure of their on
conne&icnsin I>UDlin<,*thfty ar<; enabled to felllfifti j- ee
.
Mo weft price#. The follow lag are among the lateik nu
publications.
Vefey* jutt'rs Reports m Chancery, 2
Peakc's Cases at Win Pritfi ; Reforb
in the time of Lord Hafdwicki*; t [oyer's Procters \V
Practice in the. EcclsfUftical Court® ; Barton s W
Trcatife on a Suit in Eauity ; TiJd's P raft ice gf ftr
the €!ourt of itipg'b Bcpth in Personal A<ftion»,a t y.
parts complete ; Ward'a Ua\v of Nations ; Crhifc w
ofl'Ufles ; atoldefn Reports, I % vols. London edi- f 0 4 ,
tion 5
H. anii P. Ric t wtpeA t* receive by the firft ar- of
3 rival from N«w-York the 6th vol. compete of
{ Ptihiforti and hih's Ktybr.u, the ,ad part of Gil- m
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
aevir publications. .
. J unc *<>' p,
The History of Pennsylvania, _
j By ROBERT PROUD,
Ig rioto ih the firefs, and will be published,
wk'n all copveniertt expedition, by ZtCHA
- riah Poulsqv, jun. No. So, Chefnut-ftrect, 1
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue »i
to be received, and at the Pliil»delphia Library, tl
j according to the printed proposal,, until the 1'
j- work is ready for the fubferibers. "
Sj July 18. _ "wtf
The Partnership, fl
UNDER the firm of FRF.EMAN to" Company, t!
is diffolTed by mutual eonfent. All perfoits n
>f having any demands again# tl»e said House are de- n
7 fired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and 8
thofe indebted to th»Houfe axe desired to make pay- 1
raent to him—By whom bijfinefi will in future be 4
f - carried on,at his Store, No. 39, South Front-street. J
»- Augufi y. eod-tw
to Richard and Jatnes Potter
r " HAVF. removed therr Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftreet.
th A nguft z ■ v&f6t
° f Lancaster, Harri/burgh Carlijle,
be Shtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
to
:r _ '"P'HE public are requcfted to take notice, that •
JL the partnership which has far some eime fub
lifted betwenn Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
n [ William Geer, i« now dilfolved: but, not as M.
1, Slough infinuatesto the public without just cause ;
as will mo»e folly appear by a letter on the fuh
jedl from M. Slough to W. Gecr, dated the 19th
December lift, a recital of which i> Hot now deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman who wilhes to be
more circuaiftantially informed of the merits of
nd this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
°f the perusal ®f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
°f at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfeflly jaftifiabie in attaching him
:he f e if t0 any other person in the prosecution of the
f°r Stage eonveyartcs from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place,
on Now from the liberal and generous fnpport the
public were pleased to confer on tlic fir 11 effort in
!ts, this business, William Seer, in conjunction with
lly. Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to toprofecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
to lie can poftibly eiert.
The above company, who are amply provided
■ al- with carriages,'horfes, artd every appurtenance to
render the paffagc fafe and commodious, inform
, c those wno wilh to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that t:-ey can take their feats at
n George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster,
'• tarlifle and The fare as hitherto
ros:t established.
For the further accommodation of the public,
the a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
xge of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
/ine alld r£ turn from 'hence and arrive at Hairifburg
every Saturday, so that paflengers deftfried for
"Jul- Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed 00 Mon
•eet, day 3' WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. J7, 1 797•
tof N. B. This Line of Stages Harts from tn«
house of William Ferrac, in Lancaftd-, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
'ifth ceedirg to the wtftward; and frorti the house of
Mr. S.-.mucl Elder in Harnfburg every Wednef-
Inut day morning, Qn tlie fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippcnfburg, and returns
and from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fsme routine daily as in it« tour Irom Philadel
rnvf
m P n,a -
|
On the 10th of November nexr U> Alexandria
(bc:n;; court, d:y), will be c.-ipofed (or file one
or rtiore covering Jacks, and leveral yoyng f\i r
ones of different ages iiid sices ; all deicended y)bj£
from Royal Gift (an imported jack !.rom Sjyin,
upwards of 35 hands high) out of imp'orted "The
Jinnies from Malta, full 14 hands high.
The terms of sale (or if not fold, of letting In wb
them for one or more seasons to corsr) will jj
then be made known: the payments may be L j;e c
made easy to the pHrc'hafei', bond and (eciirity
Wing given for 'he amount, witi 1 mtereft.
At the fame time snd pUce, sundry
Hurfes and Mares will be offered for sale. ihe c f t [, e
Utter having been to the Jacks, are probably united
with foirf. person :
JAMES ANDERSON, Manager. I?ar .; z ;,
ount-Vernoft, aoth ) refpom
September, 1797. J iaw4w Monro
tnl'urance Companv of the State > c c f s f[ (
of Pennsylvania.- ™ lto^
rHE Office will be kept until further,notice at
the School House in Germantown. The
Company dill retain the room in Chefnut, above .
Seventh itr< et, where a person will attend to re
ceive and anfwers to applications, tvery day CASU v
from 10 until I o'clock. y , ur
Sept 13. rfniawtf
Thomas' Armat arrd Son,
OF PHILADELPHIA,
JNFORM their cuflomers aad the public, they ( Lt s .)
have removed a part of their merchandize to
Wilmington : Also, they-have-their store open in tyf«c
the city. At either place their friends can be firp- bt " ts
<plied, and their oriels carefully attended to.
By the Cumberland, from Hull, they have re- "
ceived a handsome affurjtnent : of articles, suitable words
to the approaching season ; and eipc3l to add to it ,
by other fall ships I 1
Should the sickness prevail in tha central part of 1
' the city, that branch of their business will be ro
" moved to Germa»to\vn. M
50T The communication by post is open and rs- Wr
e gnlar as nftiali ' . " C
0 Sept. li?. thtf
~ TO BE SOLD VERT CHEAP'!
mips,
A Light WAGGON almost new, with a frame— etors i
and a pair of harness (Englilh collars) has never tionec
~ been used—price 90 Dolls.
A Horse 16 hands high, seven years old—and a
new chair, with a falling top and harnefs—32o. j u ]
Enquire No. 331, Market-street
August 44; 1 hC
'■ For sale or to" be let on ground
-1 rent, A 1
ft jA-jvaluable Lot of Ground ; cßrnc
a- n ITU ATE pn the north-e»ft corner of Wil-
U nut 4nd Fifth streets, fronting the State- j m&yi
re Koufe, square. This lot is fifty-one feet front |
ir on Walnut Sreet, and one hundred and thirteen
01 feet arid an half on Fifth street ; there are at
7 preferlt two small two story brick houses, and a jj
" l numbir of small tenements thereoft. eB ,
Also, for Sale, fey a
Two three story Brick HOuses
ts With cbnvetiient stores, wharf, &c. fitnate on
i's Water-street, between Mulberry and SalTafris £,O
ps streets, containing m front oft Water street fif
-1 ty-four feet, and'eontimjing that breadth east- r-r
---& ward ainely-five feet, then widening to tie 1
ii_ fou'th thirteen feet fix inches. These houses SAI
jve.ihe convenience of a public alley adjoining tion
ir " on the fiorth fide, atid are a very desirable fitua- cout
tion for a ihei-chiiit, floor fadlor,or others who four
" f may have occasion for storage of pobds. This drai
0 property will be fold on very reafflnible torms
■ for cash. For further inforjnation apply to the
printer. ' «
July 3'. Per
~— iT~O BE SOLD, dm
ed, And pojjjffioti given
1A- A LARGii two story brick Houfe,handfomely gill
»t, A fitnated in Princeton. There are four rooms utr»
mt and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in J
ry gatret, a range of back buildings 51 feet in
the length, and a piazza of 57 feet. Thcreisapump
in the yard, an excelleut kittl.en garden, at the
f farther end'of which are a carriage houfeand two
- Italics, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
ftalll in the two stables for horses. The heal
thiness and pleasantness of its fitsation. and the
ol ,g' number of genteel and agreeable families in and .
( j c „ near the town, reader it a desirable retreeat for a
and gentleman from the city. - The ccnimodioufnefs of c
, av . the house, its central position, and the largeness of
„k e the stables, make way fuitabkfdratavein,tor
cct which it has always been confiderd as a capital
ftandl Inquire on the premises,. of
- ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Prinaeton, Ang. it- *9—drwaawtf So
City of Walhington.
- (
He, SCHEME a
Of the Lattery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal Gity.
A magnificent dwellWlg-houfe iojobcdolltrs, B
that & caih 30>ooo, are Jojoo > ej
sub- i ditto
and 1 ditto ij,ooo & cash -
1 M. 1 ditto 10,000 & caih 10,000 ao,ooo
use ; 1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
sub- j ditto 5,000 3c saih 5,000 lojooo
19th j CJ fh prize of To,ooo j/
cem- , ,j 0- r,OOO • 10,000
;0,,e t® do. t.ooo - - lo.oou c
ts o£ iffi do. 500 - - 10,000 p
' la * e 00 do. 100 - - 10,000 p
' n ,° e *OO do. so - " l°>°o" «
400 do. at - - lo 'o°° 11
f fhf ',OOO do. 10 - ao.oon g
penft 10 ' r
t the *6,739 Prizes. . ' .
rt in Rlanks.
with _
mncd 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,00s)
g at-
pub- N. B. ToflVour those whs may take a quah- _
tity ol Tickets,the prize 0? 40,000 dollars will be
vided the last drawn ticket, and the.30,000 the last
lee'to but on* :
lform And apnrovednotes, fecuaing payment 111 either
e the o/prizes, in ten days alter drawing, wul
its at -be received foi any number not Icfstlian 30 tick- ]
■lorfe, eta.
onday This Lottery will afford an elegant [pecimen ot
fburg, the private buildiogs to be eresSed in the City cf
therto Wafhington —Two beautiful defigas are already
felefled for the entire fronts 011 two of the public
mblic, squares; from these drawings it ispropofed to ereel
house t\vo centre and 'our corner beildings as soon aspof-
Sun- fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey then:,
rfday, ' when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, 11:
ifburg the manner described ill the scheme for the Hote
;d for Lottery. A nett deduiftion of five per cent, will
Mon- be made to defray the necessary eipenfes of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
R. the fund intended for the National Umverfity, to
be erecled within the city of Washington.
m t h« The real fccurit.esgrven for the payment of the
every Braes', are held by the President and two Diredt
pro. ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are vilued at
o'fc of more than half the .Mncuntol thelsttery.
" dnc " SAMUEL SLODGbT.
at Pa- § Tickets may be had at the Bank ofCoWm
■eturns ; of" James Weft & Co. Baltimore ;of teter
ac the Oilman, Boston : of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
lifadel- fend of Richard Willis, Cooper s F^ry.
s rawt
This Day Publifhe-d,
Aaii tote fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, sorccr of.
Second and Chefuut streets,
Price yZths of a D'illar<y ExCfcL.
Observations oil certain Documents A(n
Contained i -i Ko. V and VI of A £
" T?fae History of the United States for supferi
the year 1796," Anini
In which the cu ahc a or speculation apainll tl
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, AfW
Late Secretary of t ! *e Th.i-asOr.Yi is i Tul'
" UEi-'UTED. cj
WRITTEN BT HIMSELF.
TJlis publication preicnts a concjie llateittent A
of the bal'c rrtcanjpraAiled by tlit Jacobins of the
United States to alperfe the characters ol ihofe Ind
psrfonswho arc corffiftyr£dai> hoftibe to their dilor r Soc
fckemes. It also coiituhis the cor- B'u
refpondeuce between Mr. Hamilton and Meftrs. Ba:
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and VcnaVt , ot; the iub- Bli
je6l of the documents alord'aid, and a icries of let- An
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Ha
milton, proving beyond the polTibility of a doubt, A 1
thftt the connexion between him and Reynolds, Sil'
was the rclult ol a daring eonfpiracy ou tlie part Tv
0/ the latter and his alfociates to extort monvy.
0* A discount of one third from thq retail price Bl;
will be made in favor ol wholefaic pur chafers, for
cash. Orders to be addniffed to Mr. Yobng. Ja-"
S)ur*tl. 25 • A.
' No. 188. r|
Dijlria of Pennjylwaniq, to -wit :
,'t)E REMEMBERED, that on the
( L - s JJQ twenty sixth day of July, in tlie twen-
tyfecond year of the independence of the United
States of timerica, John Fenno, of the said dif
tri(il,hi,th Jepofsted in this office the title ofabook,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit: —
u Observations on certain documents contained in
" in No. V. and Vl..ofThe Hiflory oftheUnit
" ed States for the year 1796," in which the charge attel
V of speculation, againlt Alexander Hamilton, late enqi
" Secretary of the Trcafnry, is fully refuted— f ew
" Written by him felf."' ! not
In conformity to:he a& of the Congress of die j wro
Ucited States, entituled, "An a<S foe the encour- thtit
agement of learning, by the copies of 0 f t ]
maps, chartsand books to thi Authors an<? jiropri- Jy r
etors of such copies, during 'in times th«ei» mwi- ackl
tioned," cert
SAMUEL CALDWELL, T
Cirri as the JUJlria of invf
July W4W bov
The Inhabitants of the Diftrid
of Southwark,
ARE informed that a Coacbeeis'prbvided, to be j
ffu. kept it th<; Constables" office, the north east
cerner of Front and Almond flreets. where the p,-
fciends of thofc sick. prrftins who defireto be re
i moved to the City Hwfpital, arc reflueftcd to make
' application—Alio, a Hearse will bckept in rcadi- Jull
1 cefsfor the removal of the dead.
1 JONATHAN PENROSE.
1 N.fe.—The Poor, who wiffi to remove to the
•jTenti on Schuytkill, may be Furmfhed with orders p
by applying as above. *A«i-
B William Blackburn, *°|
» LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE He
'- No. 64 Second-. c rect.
1- "THICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. I!, which 6l
e X cOmmonted drawing the 19th Miy, FOR. ftr
s SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
g tion the drawing advances, particularly on ac- fei
L- count of the five firft drawn tickets, firiies of in]
0 /our thousand dollars each, on the hist day ot de
is drawing. . ' .. fu
Check Books kept for examination anc reguter- _
ie ing, in the Ganui, No. 3, City of WaftiDgton, No.
», and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets for falc in the Schuylkill bridge and
- Perkioraen Bnidge lotteries, Which will bejin v
drawing i* the course of the fummcr.^
The buiinefs of a Broker in all kiuds of Stock, y (
ly gills, Notes, Lands, &c-&c. tranfafled with the re
ns utmost a:tention. hi
in June» _ tu&f aI
'p Erikine's View of the War. p
he , c!
th By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co. d
No. 40 South Second ftrett, h
[Price 31 Cents] A
"1 A View of the Cau/es and Confeqven- [
of ces of the present War with france. t
los Bv the Honorable Thomas ErSkine.
,u\ Ma y L '
STATE TRIALS.
f Sold-b W. Young, Bjokfeiler, No. jj, South Se
— cond-ftrect,
The Pennsylvania State Trial's,'
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acquit- 1
al of FrancisHoplunfpn, Judge of tIK Court o(
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller gen
eral—ln one Urge 8 vo. vol. Pricte, in boards, 3
dollars.
y- \v. Yodng has for sale, a genSral afWrfmebt of
trs, Books'. Also, Statiouafy, retail and by the pack
-00 . *ge, well afiortcd, and entitled to the drawback if
000
For Sale,
'OOO That well known place, called Vandegriti's
,000 ' miv,
000 Nefhaminy creEk, iTS miles from Phih
;ooo U laclelphia, on the Kcw York post road,
[OOO £om«ming 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
,000 premises are a Urge two Story fione houle occu
-000 pied »satvern, and a good oi»e ftorv flonc kit-;
'OOO chen, a Urge frame stable with a good threfhirg
,000 floor, an 3 fomc out buildings —also a well of
'OOO good water, and an excellent ice HdOfe. On
this place is a moll elegant fixation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view-os the Nefham
iry to its jun<ftion wiih the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jersey ffior-e. It has the privilege:
of one half the tollriceived from the bridge.
1 ooe For terms apply to the SviMcribfr,
' MO.'-DECAI LEWIS.
iuah- Vay 24- - uwtf>
COLUMBIA HOUSE
LAST Boarding School for young Ladies.
:ither -jy yrRS. OHOOMBRIDGE with math pleal
. ure and refpefk, returns hrr fwjeere ac
tick- kr.owledgemrnt for the liberal encouragcmest
file has received iluting four years relidcnce in
lenof p|,i!a<klphia ; and altiires her friends anil the
h y of public, so far from intending to decline, he. |
rcad ,y fchocl, (he has made a fupenor arrangement for
■ublic t | )e morc convenient accommodation of !/er
,erefl scholars. —'Every branch of ufcful and. polite
V*' education is particular, attended to by Mrs.
G»«oombridge and masters excelling in their
Wotr'l
,'w.ll Corner oSJSprture ihd ElevJnth.Streets.
June <th, 1797- (JimJCt
«? of The fituatian is healtky ; and nude
ty to more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the honfe.
; f t £ Jwl\Publified,
S-« And to be hiu'of Meflfrs. Dotfori, Campbell,R,ce,
Cary, and the other pricipal Booksellers in the
city,price one dollar, twibty-five cents,in beards,
olam- New Views of the Ongm of the
P T : Tribes and Nations of America.
°" : By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m ; d.
twf J«nc 10.
Rafs Iff SiryfeHi
HAVB FOR SALE—
C Hogsheads, v ,
i ExctUwXt Coffee in < Tierces, and
C. parrels.
A {mail parcel of nice cocoa in ba*s
A few i usi*!.*:on<; Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior TanerifFee wine, old and ill Madeira pipe*
An invoice of jewellery and liofiery to Ue fold by
the package
A few hampers ol best chetfe.
July i~. dtf.
The Subscriber has for Sale,
A large aSortmeiit ®f India Muflias,
Coarse and fine v
India Calicoes
Sooty Romalls
B'ue Cloths and Checks
Band.vjria Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Giili Handkerchiefs
An invoice of IrHh Lineus and Sheeting*, well
aifortcd
A box of Diapers
Silli Umbrallas
Two boxes of fine Spices, cotaimuf Ntitmej®,
Mace ats Cloves
Black Pepper of firft quality
£aft Indira Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Win£
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brim'ftone v
Mordecai Leiyis.
Aucruft 12. .lawim
- Higgins' Specific
J FO* TUB
4 . PREVENTION AND CURE OF THE
YELLOW FEVER.
1 T7 1 VER since this disease made such ravages in this
- I j city and New-York, the author has turned his
e attention to itscaufes and cure.—The refult'of his
e , enquiries has convinced him that the reafou why so
- few person? recover from its attacks, are from its
| not being well underßood, and the, consequent
e | wrong method taken to cure it. He is
'• : that the exceflive bleedign» and mercurial reatmeHt
f I of the Faculty is highly injurious, and that the on
i- ]y rationalmode ottreatment is by theufe of proper
>" acids. Coivincud of this he offers his Specific as a
certain remedy, if used according to the dirciiions.
To be had in bottles, at yne dollar each, of the
inventor Geo. Higgitis* Cherry ftreet,t" o doors a
bove Ninth street, (fate manager of JaAfon and
v Co's Medicine Warehouse, London); by J. Le
t Wake, No. ?»6; IV.Grifftb.lio. 177, T- Pearce,Ho.
41, §outh Third street. 7*. Stiff.\ No. jf.f ,New ttrret,
near Vine street, aqd y, No. 36, Race Brest.
'* Aug. Is. iutbs 3 t
1C COUGHS, COLDsTaSTHMAS, ami
CONSUMPTIONS.
i- Just received, by Wm. GitijTiTus.Np. 177, South
Seeond-ftreet, a frefti supply of
Genuine Bal/am of Honey, (
C A Medicine invented by the late Sir John HiH
:rb J\ (who knowledge as a Dotanift procured him
the appellation of the Linnaeus of Britain) and is
eonfldersd in England as a certain cure for the above
complaints; it is also of Angular officaay in the
'£ Hooping Cough,
It may also be had retail of W. A. Stokes, No.
ich 61, South Second street, and T. Stiff, 55, Ncw
)R street, inbottles at 75 cents each,
or- Wm. Griffiths having observed the happy ef»
ac- fe& of the medicine, {fevers! cases of cures, hav
of ingtome witfeinKs own knowledge.) and the great
ot demand, ;for ft fiSs induced him to order a largo
supply, i part of which he has ju'ft received.
:er- lawpv
30 Dollars Reward.
snd
Sin pAN away on Saturday lift, two indented Ser-
IV vahts,Giffcrd Dally, a mulatto boy, abefut: 7'
,c k> years of age, a Aim light built active fallow, e<iu
t' ,e read and write,five feet fevdn or eight inches hign,
has a heavy countenance j had 00 a fuftian coatee
' and trowfers, a high cvoWned hat, line (hoes Sic.
Allan Mtllons, a black man, about 14 years of
age, five feet seVen "or eight inches high, a thick fct
,t!u<nfj built follow, particularly about »hc breech;
'had on a fiilor's blue jacket, linedVith fwanfliir.,
dark ffriped vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
hat, coarse (hoes, &c.; each of them had several
fliirts and several other eVoalhes with them, Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for the or 1 j dol
lars for each, and reasonable charges, on delivering
IC£. them at No. 54, North Third-ftrea.
The black fellow is about a year from I.ewis
x Town, ib the County of Sussex, state of Del*.
ware, and has tfiken the b6y With him.
July 31. ,
.se- To'be SOLD or RENTED,
A LARGE 3 Story Brick House, on the
Scu.h fide of Filbert flreet, between.
quit- Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
irt of vf y or General's Office.
Gen- J-I )e Building is 35 feet front and 35 feet d«p>
ds ' 3 the lot 110 feet d«;p, with the privilege of a nine
f feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
£ the lot, to a thirty f#et wide Court for Carriages
' M ] C to tnrn in. The House is not j?lafler«d, and
iloiifes. It isluitable for a :arge Man(^"iflory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
ifj's pdffefiioii will be givtn.
Apply toKo. 111, Chefnut-Street.
>hila- Aug. 11.' . . ' codqt.
Muftcal Mrumcnt Manvfacl6r^,
occu . No-. 167, Jfrcb-Strttt.
e kit-: T TARPER,harpfKhcrd.gr.'nd,portable gra:< (!■,
.fliir« r " Xi fid'-board, p'kr table and fquwe piano tot*
ell of- niiktrfrona London, rttufnn thanks to his friend*
q and the public, for thnr liberal encouragement,
t . ana hdpes that byhin affl«?ulty and attention to
n " ery branch of his business, to nr.erit a cortinuaiica
j cf theirfavors. Pianofortes made 011 the newest.
find nioft approved plans, with pcda)s, pateftt^
■® e f .veil, and Fretrch harp stop, wliith he ilnteie.
s e- himfelf will ue found on tiisl by unprejudiced
judges, to be eo,inl if not fupcrior to any import*.
S- t d,"aiol twenty peroitit cheaper. Any inftr*
* rtt - nvnf purchased of him, if Hot approved of io
twelve months, lie will exchange.
,• N.B. All kinds of .Mefical instruments hiad^
JICS. ontd, and ropa-.reii tttith the grea'eft accuracy,
pleas- d.fpatch, and ,011 the mod reasonable term?, *«,«■
re ac- ready only.
finest SecondliH>d Piano Fcrte» tpken' .n eiichangt;-,.
■n«te in May f . ■
u'hu Forty Dollars Reward.
;nt for T> AN away from the fiiblcriber on the let.
yf }ier IV. rnddeyof tlvis in(V JuK', a Mulatto J'aiT,.
polite named Will Bo\y*e.r, abpac forty- years ot age,.
' Mrs. fjvs feet liven or eiglit inches high, raiher
n their cj, S i>ky made ; hid 011 when ha went away, a
drab colored cloth eoit, striped purple trowfer*
eots. , and jiefcet. It is probable he will change his
twtf cbathes, as hetobka number with him. The
1 made f all \ feliow formerly belonged to Mr. Char fee
and lot Blake of this place; and it is expefiied hehaß
made towards Jones's Neck, ill the Delaware
' State. —Any perfrn apprehending the (aid fel
low, and securing him so that I can him a
11,Rice, - ni receive the above regard if taken
iu thc out of the county, and Twenfj" Dollars if in
boards, [he coullty) aß d all reasonable chargej if bro't
f the home»
JEESE REED,
, y ' Qitccn Ann's Couuty, Maryland.
'it I"'y i• W Jir