or m Mi AND Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.
NUMBP.X I 584.1
SALES Bt AUCTION.
«—
Stated Sales
For T) R r GQO OS. °
f Foeenoon —Edward Fox, £> T o. 56,
„ . ) fonth Front-street,
Afternoon —Footman & Co. No. 6 5 .
(_ South Frontftr.-et.
f Forenoon—John Connelly, OJd City t ,
_ \ Auilion, No. 73 fout'h Front-street. ,
J Afternoon —William Shannon, No. n
(_ 183 Higb-ftreet. t
... , _, (Afternoon —Peter fienfon, No. 74
Weiacfiay) fauth Third . ftrcct . ,
m rj C Forenoon—Edward Fox.
Thursday | Afternoon —John Connelly. „
_ . \ Forcntjon—Willwna Shmnon.
1 <"9 5 Afternoon —John Connelly.
sai*rJat Aftefnoon —Peter Beiilon.
For Freight or Charter,
the good bric.
wis* s u K E J. i
Ifoac \ redenburg, Master ;
""NO'-V lying at Clifford's wharf, and in compleat ■ r
•rder to receive a cargo. For t.'rms please toaap t
ply the' Captain en board, or
'John Slyrin,
No. 81, Arch-ftrcet.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
2000 wt.of doublerefinedSaltpctre
t)CO \vt. of F F Gun Powder .
30C) barrels of Herrings
50 bulhcls of Timothy Seed
150 C'tV °f Claret, fir It quality
And a qoantity of Sherry Wine,
pt. 19.
HAVANNA SUGARS 1
FOk SALE, V 1
'14.00 boxes and calks prime white HavSui- (
' na SUGARS, 1
On board the (hip Hamburgh Pi<l«t, Silas <■
Mafter, now lying at Marcus H<.ok. 1
Fop terms, apply to Capt. Jjw AIN, on board, to
Capt Samuh- Smith, in Front, near Wal- *
nut street, or to T
Philip Nicklin, W Co.
Who offer the said Ship j
Hamburgh Packet
MWS&Br For SALE °r CHARTER., 1
She i» 310 tons register, coppered to the bendi,
fails reinatkably faft, and ean be ready tore-
ceive a cargo in a few days.
Sent it. _____ zw <
Antigua Rum,
, JUST arrived =t Wilmington, Delaware 1
State, and now landing Irom on board the
Brig A,-live, William Williams, Master,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale bv
Jehu Hollingftuorth tsf 60.
Wilmington, Sept.tr. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
the hrig GAVOSO., aj-e
&]£>, »lfo for Sale or Charter, and
... now ready t0 receive a car ?°
o>»'board nt*'Vi'mingtow Apply a» above.
]\or Savannah,
j—«a The fall failing (hip,
SWIFT PACKET,
Pa t ß' ck Gr'BBIN, Mafler,
Now lying oopofiteth; raouth
of Frar.kfn-d Creek, has handsome accommoda
tions for pass; n;rers, and wjII feil on or about
the ill »f OcT>ber.
For fteigbt or pafl" ge apply to the madcr on
board, or of the fublirihcrs at Frankford, 5 I I
iriilesfrom PhUaclelphia.
b'dlhro & "J. Frazier.
Frankfort, Sept. 18. dtiflO.
''• Fo/ HAMBURGH,
l -, rt r p"HE Copper Bottomed Ship
L FAVORITE, John
Thompson, Milter, now at
frights wharf, and will be rea- |
- J to take in on Monday next,
v *~' v " part of her cargo beiag engaged
reidy to go 011 board. Ihe fliiy is io well
known, that it i? nefdlefs to. deicribe her.. She
is-now order. For Freight or Pas
sage, '{jlcafe to ai>ply at Mr. Jeremiah Warder's
Compting Moull'j IVO. u, Nqith Third flreet,
-or to the Master on bord.
Auiuft 30.
ForSJLE,
On beard the said Ship, Swedilh Iron, aborted
Hollow and Window Glass, Demvjohns, Wrap
ping Paper for Sugar Refiners, Rugs of 1 &»
-(Quality. Please to apply as above.
wf&m4w
* FOR~SALE,
BR2TAONES in cafe*
German Checksin do.
jCamV.iick
Vh'ttillas
Oznabrigs
Cold and filvcr Watches
"Window Glass 10 l>y 8
Glass Tumblers in cases
Linseed Oil in r.-.(ks, &c. See.
Qtorge Petinoek,
103, HWh-StreX.
' July JT. 3»w
An elegant House in Arch Street;
TO be and entered on immediately a large
and elegant house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and one dining room —the largest is 31 feet by
— am l two are so comnxiled by folding doors
jxstoipake but one. Also. five bed rooms, bc
iides 5" in the garret, well finifhed-for fervariu.
There are llables and a coach house, with evry
■convenience for a far: ily. Enquire at No. 25,
Seventh street, or at No. 118, Arch
Street;
Aug. 15. "W3w.
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufadlured as uAial,
Ginper and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and. Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Button Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eiihe bottled,
or by the pipe, <jnarter-ca(k or gallon—suitable
for exportation or home confumpt 'ion—
For Sale by_
John Ilawortlj.
No. 98 fiauth,Freot lire, tJ
PHILADELPHIA.- FRIDAY EVENINC, OCTOBER 6, 1797.
Advertisement.
On the loth of November next in Alexandria
(bein<» qourt day), will be expofsd for ftfc one
or more covering Jacks, and several young i
ones of different age 9 and sizes ; all defended c
from Royal Gift (an imported Jack from Spaiia, *
upward* cf 15 Jiands high ) out of imported I
JTninies from Malta, suM x+ Ijinds bifh.
The terms of sale joi'if irjt I'oU!, • l " ieiiir..-
them tor one or more fcafons.to cover) will '
then be made known: the paytirents may lie- I
made easy to the purc'aafer, bond and security '
being given for the amount, with interest. 1
At the fame time and place, fundiv -
Horfts and Msres will be offered tor sale. The
latter having been to the Jacks, are probably
with foal.
JAMES ANDERSON, Manager.
ount-Vcrnnn, »cth \
, September. 1797. S ta\v4W t
N OTIC E. t
A' LL perfrtn* indebted to the estate *)f Jo hn '
jTa. Striker, late of Tinnecum Townfhlp,
Buck's County, are requested to pay off th(ir
rtfpeilive
faid estate, are desired to bring in
their accounts, to
JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN, & ) Execu-
AULLET PREVALT, 5 tors.
Sept. tSi- ytaw4\» '
From' Mar leilles. ]
THE CARGO
Of the Swedilh barque Guftavus Adolphus, from
Marseilles, c©:ifiltlng of the following ai tides, j
is difchargjing at Mr. Latimer's wharf, ar.d for ,
lale by the fubfejbers
BRAKDY, well flavored, of 1, 3 & 4th proof '
Claret, in hot;(heads
Ditto, iji cases
Froptigmac Wine, in cases of 30 bottles
Olive 0i1,."»f a-Tjp*rior quality, in ba<krts of' 4 1
and ukuuie* —' ' .
Capers (
Olives , 1
Aimonds ;
Dry Verdigreafe J
Writing, Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) of aB, 30 and 3» inchea
Taffeties
Long and (hort white Kid Gloves for Women
Silk Stockings
Handkerch ess, in irritation of Madrafi
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Qftrich Feathers
Ribbons
Perfumery
Fcented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
Manna in fort*
Cream Tartar.
BENIAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANDREWS.
Septembf 17. eotf
Public notice is hereby given,
To the Freemen of the City and County of
Philadelphia, and the County of Delaware,
r T* I HAT a General Eleilion will be held 0.1
JL Tuesday the 10th day of Oflober next;
the eleflion to be opeped between the hours of
10 o'c'.ock in the forenoon, and 1 e'cjock in 3f
ternoan—when the freemen of the city of Phi
ladelphia are to meet at the State-house,' in the
laid city, to eleJt
Six reprefentativei for the laid city in the gen
eral assembly.
Twenty persons for me rubers of common
council.
Four persons for members of the ft'leiO coun
cil, in the room of Franris Godtre>
Haga, Henry Pratt,' and Janita Read, whole
time expires.
The he;men of the county of Philadelphia
to cleft '
Stx'reprefentatives for the fa d copnty in ge
u&val aflemlily. ,
The fr.nmen of the city and county of Phila
delphia to eleft
Two persons for IherifT.
One pcrfon for county commiflioner.
Tie freemsn of the city and county of Phi
ladelphia, and the county of Delawan, to el.ei£f
One senator for the fUte.
The freemen of the county of Blockley and
Kingfeffing, are to hold their eledVion ai the
State-house in the city of Philadelphia.
The freemen of' the Northern Liberties, are
to hold their eleflion at the Tow»-houfe, in Se
cond flreet continued, above Coats's street.
The freemen of fhctownfliipof Gerra jntown,
Roxborougb and BriftoJ,, are t» hold their elec
tion at the Union school-house, in Germantown.
The freemen of the townlhip of Oxford, By
bery, Lower Dublin and Moreland, are to hold
ther election in the house late John Barnfley's in
• Bufteltown, in the townlhip of Lower Dublin.
And the freemen of the dittriA of South
wai-k, and the townlhip of Moyamenfing and
PalTyuiKk, are toholdtncir ele«S>icri at thecom
milfioner's hall, iu the diftrifl of Southwark a
forefaid. •
The constables of each ward, diftri<sl, &c arc
to hold their eleftions in the different
to choafe infpedlors and afleflbri for the
ensuing year, ancf give their Attendance at the
time and refpeAive places
JOHN BAKER, Sheriff.
Sept. 29-
The Norfolk Mail bTAGE.
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGF. Tavern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every TuefJai, TburfJay, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, inthe norning ; arrives at Oo
e ver the firft day, at Snowhill the second day, at
i Northampton Court the third day, and on
s the mornirtg of the fourth day the palfengcrs > find
y a fafe and eomfortable packet to convey them to
s Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton fetry,
every Tuefdiy, Thurflay and Saturday, and the
' Stige start-, from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wcdncfday and Fri hy ;>putsup at Snow
!' Hill the firft night, at Dover the lA night, ahd ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediftance on this route, bet(veen Philadelphia
and Norfolk, i« So (nilee let's than on any stage route
between those places.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent inde«d. The proprietors
w'dlingly engage to return the whole fan: to any
, r pafTenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he <?ver travelled in a frage for the fame
cUttnce, so good a road in America.
I Anguft 11. din;, eotf.
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy-
Ditto dittb Claret in cases
Just received, and for Salt by
Rtindle if Leech.
Au~.%\. MWtf
By John FennO, 119 Gbefnut Street.
I CUSTOM-HOUSK,
tfiladelphiAi Srpt.nA, trqr. l
THF IVTe-chants v lie ?r r?>is time prefer i:av- Sun
i"tg their vefletr nnd MeivhaiU^'* enl-ei >it «ud Mr
cleared at Chefler or Msrcui Hor-k, —Sft here- fik
"fey notified, That in complunc e v.iih rtitir dc- roc
Hie and iuk.,. .( Fi.II coiiviilioi ,0 '
belief i *
Wr? . t'JQ'l"' r<>li,e<sli)i.of the cultums
ina<> .irmjvmirnts to rftaMifh for some Ui^r
b'3tifh t 3 of Ihe nOomhoyfe at thofi?*places, 1J
where every in his power will
be to t!,e merchants. dtw »g.
TO IJE SOLD, "
Anil immediate pojjcjfion °J -
A Convenient well fiailbed Brick T encmenf,
with a cook lion ft and other out houfet, fitn
ated in a pieafint part of the borough of Wilmitig- (
tor, in the of Delaware—t he lot of ground f
has forty feet front on Weft-ilreer, uiid extends
through the square to Pafture-flreet, on ,whkh.is
erciled a liable and carriage bonQr-
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. to. r T
Lately Published,
In onf vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar la beards) fold t{JJI
by WILLIAM YOUNCI, corner of Second and ,
Ch-fnut »reets, _ c 0 1;
A Colicftion of Papers on the fubjeA of : nt r
Billions Fevers, prevalent in the United anc
States for a few vears pall. ' >u '
Compiled & NOJH WFBSTRR, ju*. fic i
Containing letters from Dodors Seaman, Smith, J,'*
Bpel, Ramfay, Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch
eN,on contagiou, &c. &c.
Sent, ir
—— ' ati<
City CommiJJioaers Office, th <
August 2f>, 1797* -J?
IN pursuance of an Ordinance of the Select and
C o >.. iTiX< u. CiMiiislla*. the aid day of M*y4aib ]
IS+-«r.Wal- in writing will rec' J-.-.ib'the Cit;' I
C'lrt-.mifS'Wiers for one monthfru«i the id 0} iep- .
tcmber ntxt, for letting to rent on ieafrs lor o«e
year to commence the firft day of January next, the
following public property of the city— .
The wharf and landing on Vine Strew, am
Also on Saflafra«, cu j
Mulberry, ftr ,
A rvt High Street*, k c ,
Chyfnut and Walnut Street#, B*ra\v "ridge, with
th« Scale and Fi(h Houfcs, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The ceUar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with tho lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as lhall be occupied by any buildings eredt
ed for the use of the Colle&or of the Tolls, or b* l "
neceTary for the toll-gates.) 1
Ang. 3 3tawim.
~ LOS T,
ON the Paffyunk Road, between the Blue Ball
and the city, a Fowling Piece, with a brass 66
barrel and silver fight; on the plate of the butt are 10
the letters " Jamaica, 99" —and on the barrel 88
near the lock '• London" and the Tower (lamp. fqt
Whoever will return the laid piece to John Bennard, fqi
at the sign of the Blue Ball on the Paiyunk RortJ, fqi
or the office of this Gazette, ftiall receive a reward
of Four French Crowns, ne
Sept. 12. *3t ed
DUTY ON CARRIAGES. ®
mi
Notice is hereby Given, w
r agreeably to an afl of Congrcfs «f the ° !!
JL United States of America, parted at Phila- ot
delphia, the'iSth day of May, 1796 ; laying <!u
ti«s on Carriagei, for the conveyance of persons,
which (ball be by. or for auy person, for his
or her own use, or to let out to hire,, or for the
conveyance of passengers, the several dutie* and "~
rates following, to wit:
For ai>i upon every Caach,ls dols.
upon every Cf ariot, li dols.
upon every Post Chariot, 11 dola. f
upon every Post Chaise, 11
upon every or without top, :l
9 dols. ,
upon every Coachee, 9 dols. !
g upon Carringet,having pannel work
' 1 above, with blinds, glaffcs 01 curtains, ! Jr
9 dols. ul
upon ftur wheeled Carriages, having fra
med polls and topi with Heel springs, 6
dots. j
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood-
V etfcor iron or jacks, 3 dols.
upon CurricUs with lop 6, .1 dols.
«pon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols. hi
ii] on otlwr two wheel topcarriaget, 3 dols, »j
upon two wheel carriages; with Heel or v<
iron fpringa, 3 doW. m
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 2 dols. fa
upon every four wheeled carriage, having / M
framed polls and '.ops, and reding up- tl
on wooden fpiirs, 2 dols
-1 The Colledors of the Rcvwiuc for the Crft Sur- y (
vey of the Diftriil of Pennsylvania, will attend r<
■ daily, until the 3cth day of September n'tf, for
the purpofc of receiving the duties on Carriages, at p
■ Oermantown *, at the house of Daniel St. Clair,EJq.
, in the County of Montgomery ; and at the house
: of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucki ;
of which all perfonspoffeflcd of such Carriages are
desired to take nq/ice.
Notice is given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dif- c '
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will be grant- J
ejJ to them ; on« licence for carrying on the bufi- v '
ness of retailing of "Wines, in a less quantity, or
'' in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
' cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi- J
rituous liquors in less quantities than 10 gallons, at
the fame time and »t the fame places, by the offic-
C crs legally authorifedte grant such licences.
™ WILI.IAM NICHOLS,
Inlpeilor of the Revenue of the firft fui
vey of ttfc Diftriil of Pcnnfy Warfia.
Office ol I,'ifpeAion at "> ilm c
' f/ermantow, 12th Sept. 1797. 3 '
7 IMP O R T E D :
7 111 the (hip America, James Ewing, master, from f
Hamburgb, )
Brown Hollands ,
White Platillas c
Ticklenlmrg* • .
;c Coatfo Linens .
Tapes 1 I
Glass 1 unAlers j
7 for sale ay
George Pennock.
A*guf> 14. 3 aw 1
Ati Laying Duties on StampcdVellum,
Parchment and Paper.
A FEW copies of the above aft may be had at
the Office of the Gazette «f Mic Usited States, No
119, Chtfnut-llrect. J u 'y I 9>
An UMBRELLA,
WAS taken (supposed to have been stolen) on
Stindny evening last, from the house occnoijti hy
Mr. r, No 9, Strawberry- lrett . —ltUugr^en
ft k Umhrsli i/of the muldlc size, wirh a icd 1110 -i
rocco top ants hf>oked ivory head.-nConceiving it
to trpve by fotr.c pitfering l,irdve, who, i
!• <cu! hry motives-, ?nay end*
c fan^" . ny per(V ". or persons ro -Whom th • I
pj o-flfcrcd,arg.<lefi;r. d tc. it; I
and it h ..'•igped, will apprchtfid and ccn m%, the i
thief to justice. The peculiarity of the Ijmbrclla 1
vfill, evidently, the poTVsilbr to detedlion I
therefore, whoever apprehends the fame and deliv,- I
ers It at Mr. Blum's, from whenqc'it wastaktrn,
or at Mr. Ftnno's office, ihalJ be handsomely re- I
warded. Gift. i
"L OJTTT
ON the Prankiord road» a Gamers fiair sji awl.
Any person who return it to the Printer, fball
have a reasonable reward, Oil. 3. —dflt i
To be Sold, I
And immediate polfeflioa given,
THAI" elegant feat, called .the
teffdene'e of the lateJoHN Cox, Eftj with a- {
botlt »o acres of Land, lituste en the Delav/are, ex- t
tending fro™ the raouth 6f AlfanpickcteokltoTren- v :
ton ferry. The manlion house it a handsome well t
conftruifted brick building, jo ny 40 feet,' contain
ing four room« oa each floor, with excellent cellars, f
and a two (lory brick kitchen. Among the out ,
buildings are a flone coach house and stables, fuf- 1
ficient t» contain fix carriages and ten horses,' and j
a flone cow house, upwardiof too feet in length.
There is also a (lone farm house wiih corn cnbs,
w;ggon hoitfe, &c. &c. The whole of the preiai
fes proposed to be fpld with this feat, from their ffu
' atiop and improvement*, are fuchasto be vror:hy
tlWatttntion of any gentleman wilhing t» ritir;
fmni the city. There are also abcut 15 atrea ad
i&ining the above, whlfb wiU be d ; vided so to
-ommodate the purch.ifers. Also, 1,00 acre, a<li;
the town iots on the rait Sde bT tTie [hie*.'
Icatiiajfijre'v I'tmec-">n i ;;■ T V'', w!'' " will
be A)W together or in low, ai m:ty fieft suit thc puT
chalcr, and 130 acres of woodland, two miles from 1
the above land, T»bich will also be divided if re
quired. The tertn, of payment will be made easy, ■
and an indifputlble title given. For further parti
culars enquire of Mrs. Cox, No. 144, South Fourth
street, Philadelphia, John Stevens, Efq Hoboe
ken, Mithias Barton, Esq. of Lancaller, or the
fubferiber at Trentou. {
MASKELL EWING. ,
Trenton, Sept. aj, 1797.
Sept. 30. dtf. ]
Sundry Lots
IN the following Squares in the City of Wafliing- ■
ton will be exposed to Pu»uc Sack, by the sub- ,
fcribers, on the second Monday in O&ober next,
at the Little Hotel, in the said City, to com- 1
mence at 10 o'clock
Squale No. 3a, 4», 43, 44, 47i 48, 49. J°. SJ, 1
66,
io», 105,118,119, i»o, 141,6a,56, 84,*104, 87, 1
88, 89, i©4, 114. "5. I»°. 6i » 166 « 80,103, '
square eaftoffquare 87,fquarefouth offquare 104,
square north of square 8 1, square ea£t of square 88,
square north of square 128.
These Lots are advantageously Ctuated in the
neighborhood of the President's Square, and deem
ed equal in value to any in the city, and will be '
peremptorily fold ; clear arti valid titles will b« '
made to the pm chafer, On receipt of the purchase
money. Terms of sale, arc, good notes, negotia
ble at the Bark of Columbia, one fourth part in
. one month. Cue other fourth in three months, one
other fqurth in five months and the remaining one
fourth in feven,months. ,
WILLIAM DEAKINS, jun.
{,'K.AH FOSkHST.
! Sepf.lt. d's
j .■ . ■ . ■ ■ 1 1 . 1 , I 1 ■ -
Bank of North America,
September &th, 1797*
OV Monday next the Notice* for all Nates or
Bills payable at thisßank,which fall dueonthat
1 aud the ensuing 6 days, wHI be served on the Pay.
' er«: »nd the like Notices 00 eveiy Monday, till
the fiHther orders of the Dire,"toys.—Persons wish
ing to deposit Nates or Bills for tolledion, which
1 are to fai 1 due within the wtak, mull themf-lvcs
' undertiike to give notice to the Pavers. dtf
i At the Federal Blast Furnace,
In Carver—for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
MILLS. I
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THE lii Superiority conjijls in being freefrom
holes and honey-combed plates, which are ccm
i, >Du»h found in rollers cafl in find, or clay
r moulds. These patent rollers are caj! in iron
moulds, previously heated, ar.diuill be found to
<■ be more dense, fotid and durable than any rollers
S heretofore ufei- Another important advantage
they, have over others, is, that the necks require
no turning, but are immedaitely ft for use, and
' from their accuracy, run 'with less friction, and
$ require iefs water to make tlienl perform their
r rvork. Jt)eymay be had by application to the
X Patentee iri Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Good
■ ' win, or of .Mejfrs. Thatcher a/Id Hayiuard
1 Boflov, slug. 31. ■ '
I Sept. «»■ -fit.
Mr. L AILSON,
WITH an intention to render fervicc, and UHde
•. ceive those Performers, who during his abfAce Mr.
Jaymond has thought proper to engage, thinks it
!_ would be wrong in him not to inform those that
ir are engaged, that itiswithou his approbation,and
that he will hot be in any way answerable for r
; laymond's engagements.
J, PHILIPPE LAILSON.
Alexandria, Sept. 15, <797- 6t
: .THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREINLEAF,
HEREBY give notice, that they have dilpofed
of the property affigncd to them for the securing
the payment of the notes acceptances, and en
~ dmfements given by Edward Eox, for the use
oftheftid James GreenUaf; and theiolders of
P such notes, acceptances, and endorsements, are
hereby notifyetl that the fubferibers will foitle"
«ith them for the amount of their refpeilive
claims, bctti PRiNCtPAt. and interest, at
any lime before the »cth day of O&ober next;
after which dav. tl?e holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terma of assign
ment.
Applicatioßs to be made at fouth-eall corner
of Dock and Second lireets (the Dock-street
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
_ ciock ev*ry day, Sunday; excepted.
N Henry Pratt,
Tho. W. Francis,
' John Miller, Jun.
' John Afbley,
y 0 Jacob Baker.
Hiiljde'phis, Ajgihl 1?, 1797- ' d
Thomas Herman I^F.UFF.f
*cvih Vifih (beet; coiner of North a)itry . No-
HAS FOR SALE,
reti. Uourtoux SVjee *nca£jru.:*
boxes, fix yetiVs . '
Graves Wiii'e in
tirlcleobur^s
tufTi: .-h?' < th_*
aveus Buck *
Bae Linen '
I! cllians
Diaper anjj Tabip Ctotli
Empty bagvS
Cwnamon German Cloth -s
/•n affortrnentof black coloured Ribbo"**
F.Ae German Laces
A bout twelve tons P.uUia clean Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family use
Window Glass , ug 20.—i?.a*r
This JUY WAS PUtfU •&»', ~
And for file, by 7 DO I! SO . at tJi«
Stone House, No. 41, south Second l'lrcet,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, ['HE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
ConfiiTing of a variety of Miscellaneous Pieces for
theinftfudion and ainufement of YOUNG'PER
SONS—- Sis. Volumes feanctfomely prntedand boiyid
up iu two volumes, price Two Dollar^
The variety and excellence of these pieces are
fuoh, that the book seeds only to be known to be
universally efleerhed one of tile most valuable pub
lications th t cap be put into the hancs of young
parlous.
44 Delightful eafle to rear the tender thought,
To teach-;he young idea how t«> (boot.
To pour the fteih infrru&ion o'er the viin<&,
To brearheth' enlivening fpirit,'and to fix
The generous pUrpci'e in the glowing breast."
Thomson.
li* mwf4w-
THIS D -*Y ISPUBUSHED,
By THOMAS BOBSOK, at th'. btone House,
No. 41, south Second ftrcft,
Cotters- and *J«mvferiations,
Between several Teur-g Ladies, an improving and fn
terefting fubje&s.
Translated from the Dutch of Madtme de C.amhn
with alterations and improvement!,
Printed onfine paper, ani neatly bound,
Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales of extraordinary distress, or cf desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up th« foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies Uo
be ignorant of, this little book cora«s forward to so
licit notice, where in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the heunds of real lift, the proper, bfGaufc
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Pe\nali
character is exhibited in an intereding point of view,
and prefeats examples of real and attainable excel'
lc>ce.
The publilher wasfomuch pleafedwith the perey
sal, that he was persuaded he {hould do a pleasing
ferviceto the community by fending it ino circii
lation. v August 24 —mw^.
To Ma/leri and Pilots bringing up Vefftif
from For sign Ports to this City,
TTTHereas sundry infringements have lately beeji
W made «n the laws of this (l»te for the pre
venting pestilential or infedious difeafes,,either
from ignorance or inattentioa thereto, it is tho'c
expedient at this time to pub'.ilb the following ex
tracle from the lawj of aid April, 1794,7 th asd
Bth feflions.
HEALTH-OrFICE.
June 6th, 17,4.
BxtraS of an aSfor feturing the city and pott
of Philadelphia from the introiußion of pefli
lential and contagious diseases.
Sect 1 . 7. Ahd be it farther enaiJled, that svery
matter or captain of any fliip or vessel coming from
fen (vessels ailually employed n the coasting trade
excepted) and bound to any fort or place within
the jurifdiflion of Pennfylvania.fha l ! eaufe hisfbip
or vessel to be brought to anchor, or otherwifa fl.iy
eil in the dream of the river Delaware, oppofiw to
the Healtb-o£Sce on State-IdaaiJ, aforefaid, and
there to remain until he Hi all have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of health from the Resident Phy
fieian. Andil, previeufly to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill.of health, any master or captain lhall
fu/fer lik Blip or vessel to approach nearer than tlx;
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
fhallland, eaufe or fuffer to be landed, or brought
011 ft:pre, at any place or port within this Com
monwealth, or at any othor port or place, with the
intest of being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any pcrfon or persons, or any goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving such bill of health,
or certificate, he (hall ncgleA or rcfufe to deliver
the sam- to the HcaUh-Qfficer, such master or cap
tain {ball forfeit asii piy, for each andevery such
offence, the fuaiof rtva hundred doli.a*s.
And the captain or mailer of avery fhlp or ves
sel (hall fend a fafe and commodious boat to bring
the phyficiaii 011 beard, and (hall in like manner
conv y him hack to the Hsalth-Office, after he hat
concluded his official examination ; And while he
is making such examination, or in rafeany subse
quent examination by the Heahh Officer or Con
futing Phylician, agreeably to the dlre&iens of
thi- six, the master or cajHain (hallexpole or cattle
to beexpofed to thefeerth of the Refider.t Phyfi
ciiii.or of the Health Officer and Consulting Phyffc
ciau Cas the cafe may be) each' and tvery paTt of the
(hip or vessel, arid (hall present to his view each
and every person er persons on board thereof, and
and (hall a!fo true and fatisfailory »n(wers maW
to all such questions as the Resident Physician, &c.
at the time of examination (hall ask relative to th»
health of any pot tor place fr«m which the (hip or
vessel failed, or has fincetouched at—the number
of persons on board when the (hip or vefftl entered
on her voyage—the number yf person. that have
Once been landed or taken 011 board, and when
and whererefpe&ively—what persons on board—
s they been during the voyage, or (ha 11, ac
the time of examination, be infe&ed with any pefc
■ tilentialor contagious difea!a—and what is the pre
sent (late and condition of the purfons on board
with rdp eel to their health or diseases. And if
any master or captain (hall refufe to expose u* afore
aid, to the search of a>iy of the officers aforcfaid,
' n ;f he (hall conceal any ftck person, or in ar>y other mon»
- cr [f C cr\ the proper officers aforefaid in bis anhvers.
uch captain rr mailer, for evefy fach offence, (ha*
; forfeit and pay the sum of fiv« üBKDtto no*»
LARS.
; Sect. 8. And if ary pctfon or persons whstfo
-1 ever (tjhe Resident Physician, &«. excepted) ilia 11
- go on icard any vessel, before the mailer thereof
I has received a certificated health in the manner
r I direded, every person so offending, foall pay
t un: of ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS. J
IT beisg ahfolwely necessary that tlie foregoing
fe&ions (hould be pnniilually complied with, thg
fubferiber, in compliance with his duty, malt ex
act a rigoroEs ohftrvance of the (amc, or elfc be
under rf'u. iieeeflity of pntting the laws in force.
Wm. ALLEN, Health Offctr of the
Ptfi of Pbilfd'lpb'a,
J»iy i-4- - . *s w
rvcl'J.V.P Xll.WASHINGTON LOTTERY,II. J
Lrsr of Prizes and Blanks,
128 th day's Drawing—Sept. 13.
No. Dels. AO/ Dois. No. Dots. No. Dtls.
163 11827 to *3131 35341
36) 10 971 10 181 IO 438 v
1469 A 690 . 569 10 stß
9.9 • 13071 10 882 535
1«25 I 34189 663 (j
160 10 158 165 10 36641
194 347 6.58' 641 10/;
fSO (<7<i 35300 10 37061 !•
3377 14740 810 ' 25a r
411 151.{7 10 26511 556 >1
448 197 lo 796 J99 j
792 858 17912 38456 10
4466 946 28097 10 39596 j
749 l6nß 817 4079: j
5157 543 10 29171 93« ilO
170 10 622 - 512 10 41058
256 681 555 239
260 746 10 571 10 307
892 10 968 25 30060 961 10
<?62 17301 238 42012 10
176 737 10 357 10 316 10
4 6 4 865 358 JSJ
753 18187 10 798.10 513
96J3 381 10 31113 649-
841 to 618 10 683 io 673 25
8176 850 3*859 913
5 74 J9817 879 44548
9317 20167 33144 10 lo
3'9 480 705 223
388 886 3*036 10 48096 ic
ICO4I 965 233 10 948
2871 31054 10 562 10 952 10
s°° 10 660 49127 20
11017 668 756 454 10
3.'8 797 83l 509 19
480 22040 *l9 913 644
$73 Tp 189 945
780 lO| 313 _ 35121
129 th day's drawing—September 25.
l A 95 J 1
4<t 635 24373 10 ,340 10
556 79 x 656 374
653 10 943 35733 '0 672
797 10038 10 29747 674
818 1 125'10 27653 798 20
*3.ii 760 30193 to 4T043
3/4 910 998 10 Ift
512 11128 io 31290 lo 42e6?
780 '3179 300 10 4J244
2270 10 4T9 680 .< 284 20
3178 14269 32595 , 388
45S 10 835
648 I5#»J 34112 671
4046 992 623 4 54^8
283 l6ii'3 754 482
58® 17529 805 10 46173
81® 10 «8399 978 365
J212 10 I9 r i7 35876 432
646 30439 36918 10 548
931 494 10 37«>35 10 910 10
6101 10 31621 303 ' 48791 10
Sol 10 888 846 49136
79*1 96$ 38214 175
8391 22438 79c 353
The Citizens of Philadelphia and
th^Subilrbs,
RESIDING in or near Germantown,
are earnestly requested to meet at the Ger
man School House, in the school hotife
lane, on Saturday next, at three o'clock in
the afternoon, to take into consideration the
prefcn£ fuffering state of the Poor of the
City and Suburbs, and adopt such meafurct
es humanity may point out.
Germanlowm, 08. 3.
Boston Glass Manufa&ory.
THE cititeos of the United States are hereby
informed, that the manufacture of Window
Glass U r.ow commenced at the Glass House in Bos- <
ron.
It is needlcfs to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boston Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the United States to be in every refpeft
greatly fuptrior to any ever imported from Europe.
It will be cut to any ifze commonly used ; and
may be constantly had by applying to C» Ailes F.
Kuprss, at the Glass House.
Orders from the distant States to be addrclfed to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-ftr<et, Boston.
Boston, Scyt 30,1797 - O 4 —2aw'w
Mejfrt. Timothy and Mason, Cbarlcfion ; Mrjfrs. 1
Hodge and JBoylan, Halifax, N. C. Mejfrs. Willctl \
fd O'Connor, Norfolk ; Air. Ellis Price, Alexandria ;
Mejfrs. TynJt anil Brvtvn, Baltimore ; Mr. Hopkins,
NtiV'Torh ; and Mejfrs. Hudson ts* Goodwin, Hart• |
ford ; arkreqvejled to insert the above once a weei. The ■
accounts to It fortvarJed to the Editor.
At a Meeting of the Bcfard of 1
Property, June 6, 17971
Present JoJin Sea'ry.
Franri6 Johnfton, R. G. >oflandoflic«
Dan. Brodhead, S. G- j ;
Nicholas litttingcr, J •,
v Vtrfui > ,
Samuel Cunningham. J
In this cafe the proof of service of notice be
ing inefficient, rt is ordered that notice be giv- '
en in one of the Philadelphia newfpa
pers weekly, for at least eight weeks to the I
heirs or aflignees of Samuel Cunningham de- ]
ceafcd, to atttend the board on the firft Monday ]
in November next, to shew caule why a patent ,
fliould not ifTue to Nicholas Hettinger for the
land in question.
(A true Copy.)
JOHN HALL, 1
Secretary of the Land Office. I
Aug. 15. *iawßw. ,
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Amlterdam and forfale by 1
* B. J. Bohlen,
yi large ajjbrtment of Jtne Frct/h Cambrics, '
Platillas KuffiaindDutchfailcldth '
Battannias Writing, post, and print- ]
Rouanes ing paper 1
Brown Holland Dutch calf skins <
Checks and firipes Prime madder I
Ticklenburgs Shell'd Barley ,
Oznaburgs Looking glafTes
White iheetinjs Hollow glass ware
Diaper Slates
Brown rolls CofFee mills
Umbrellas Brass kettles 1
Hair ribbons Scythes and straw knives t
Black »nd white laces Toys aflorted in boxes s
Btft Holland Gin in pipes (
London partieular Madeira Wine,
July 24. m&thtf
MRS. G RATTAN
INFORMS her friends,and the pnblic in general, 1
that hir house, No. 192, Market-street, »ill con- 1
tinue open during the fieknefs. tt 1
Board and Lodging in a fcparate room, ten a
dollars, in a double room, eight dollars.
For the convenience of those gentlemen who
have not their in town, Mrs. ©rattan 1
will receive gentlemen to dine at half a dollar t
•a day. »s•—6f f
*
Public Notice is hereby given, 1
THAT the CommiHionera for the Di(lri£t oi" r
Southwarh have removed their hall to the houf'
formerly occupied by Samuel ®off, in Christian at
the »rn»r ef fifth street. i Wft. 3- "
!
I We>t(gazette.
P Ft: 1L A DEL PHI A ,
FRIDAY EVENING, OCTOBITR 6. '
7 1 1 1 1
/ v INFORMATION • \
fßefpecling Dr. Ruin's conduft and traiifacti
, ons during the prevalence of the malignant fe
-I)er of 1793 —Communicated by one of the
I, Members of the College of.Phyfutans.
II P r - having tried the effects of mer-
V curial purges which he acknowledged to the
k College of Phyficianson the 26thof August,
, hnd been recommended to him by Doftors
J Hodge and Carfoti, the latter of whom had
experienced their good effects upon himfelf
on a former oqcafion in adofe CGntaininnMM
grains of Calomel—made trial of
was so highly pleased with them that he as
sumed the credit of the discovery, though
they had been frequently employed, both by
.the Eafl and Weft-India phyficiang longbe
fore 1793, as may be seen in th£ publicati
ons of Lind, Blaney, Clark, Balfour and
others.
He appears to have read Dr. ftjofely's di
rections for trating the Yellow Fever of
the Weft-Indies about the 10th of Septem
ber for the fir ft time. In that treatise very
profufe and frequent bleeding is recommend
ed from a perfuafSon that the disease was al
ways attended with inflammatory symptoms
in the beginning, which in that climate was
probably ttitf cafe as the fubjefts that came
under Mofely's care were strong vigorous
plethoric English sailors.
Dr. Rush with thatprecipitationforwhich
he has always been noted, instantly adopted
the practice in its utmost latitude without,
refledting that difference of climate and con
stitution made a difference in the disease.
On the 12th September he published in
the Federal Gjazette the following directions
to the citizens :
" Dr. Rush, regrettipg that he is unable
to comply with all the calls of his fellow-ci
tizens indisposed with the prevailing fever,
recommends to them to take his mercurial,
purges, which may now be had with suit
able directions at most of the Apothecary's,
and to lose 10 or 12 ounces of blood as soon
convenient aft*r taking the purges,* if the'
head ach and fever continue. When the
purge* do not operatie speedily, bleedirfg
may now be used before they are ttiken.—
The almost universal success with which it
has pleased God to bless the remedies of
strong mercurial purges and bleeding in this |
disorder, enables Dr. Rush to afTure his/el
low-citizens that there is no more danger to
be apprehended from it when these remedies
have been used in its early stage, than there
is from the Meazles, or Influenza. Dr.
Rush afTore»-his fellow-citizens farther, tWat
the risk from visiting and attending the sick
at present, is not greater than from walking
the streets. While the disease was so gene
rally mortal, or the fuccefsful mode of treat
ing it only partially adopted, he advised his
friends to leave the city ; at present he con
ceives this advice urinecefTary, not only be
eaufe the difsafe is under the power of me
dicine, but because the citizens who now
wish to fly into the country eannot avoid
carrying the infeftion with them—they had
better remain near to medical aid and avoid
exciting the infeCtion into aCtion."
How far the assertions contained iu the
address correspond with faCts, let the obitu
ary of that month determine, and the deaths
in his own family.
'Those acquainted with the c«ufes and
laws of contagion thought him insane.
At other times he promised a removal of
the iafeCtious effluvia, with which he aflerted
the whole atmosphere was loaded, as soon as
a heavy rain should fall. An opinion as
groundless as any that ever was generated
in a whimsical brain. ,
Immediately after one of his addrefles to
the citizens, the following advertisements
were published by his request in all the
newspapers. - \
" Dr. Rush's celebrated mercurial purging
and sweating powers for preventing and cu
ring the prevailing putrid fever, may be had
carefully prepared, with proper directions
at Betton & Harrifons, No. 10, South Se
cond street.
Dr. Rush's mercurial sweating purge for
the Yellow Fever, may be had carefully
prepared, with the doCtor'i directions, and
fold by Wiiliam Delany, Druggist and Che
mist, &c.
Dr. Rush's mereurial sweating powder for
the Yellow Fever, with printed directions,
prepnred and fold by permission, by Gold-»
thwaic & Baldwin, Chemists and Druggists,
See.
In speaking of his exploits in a letter a<f
dreffed to Dr. Rodgers, dated OCtober 3d,
after accusing most of the physicians in the
city of ignoranceandobftinacy.he adds," by
means of the remedies' before mcfitioned, I
think I havVbeen the unworthy instrument I
in the hands of a kind providence of rccov- |
ering more than 99 out of an 100 of my pa- I
tients before my late indisposition from the !
want of bleeding and purging. Since the
1 Oth of Sept. I hsjve found bleeding in ad
dition to the mercurial purges necessary in
19 caies out of 20. At firft I found Jhe
loss of 10 or 12 ounces fufficient to subdue
the pulse, but J have been obliged gradually
as the season advanced to increase the quan
tity t.o 60, 70 and 80 ounces.'?
So much was the Dr. about this period
poffeft with the notion that he was the on
ly man of common sense "existing, that he
not only refufed to consult with any but
his former pupils who submitted to obey
his dictates, that he rudely intruded his
advice upon other people's patients ; he also
appointed two illiterate negro men and sent
them into all the alleys and bye-placcs id
the city, with orders to bleed and give his
sweating purges as he empirically called
them, to all they should find sick without
regard to age, ftx or conftftution. And
* These purges cot timed 10 grafts of Calo- 1
mtl and 15 of jfulap. ;
bloody and dirty" work they made among
the poor miserable Creatures fell-in their
way.
"That his mind was elevated to a state of
snlhuliafm bordering on phrenry, I had fre
quent opportunity of observing—and I. have
heard from popular report, that in palling
through Kenfinyton one day with his black
man on the feat of his chaise along fide of
.him,he crided out with vociferation, " bleed
fend purge all Kenfingion !" drive on boy !"
The contemplation bf his own felf creat
ed consequence, the hurry of business, the
novelty and solemn afpedt of the furround
mg scenes, had certainly a very extraordi
nary effeft upon his imagination and impair
ed his judgment.
'hat he terffied into chil
vinto
Wfenvulfions, by flopping thßPin the m-ec t
and declaring they had the fever—You've
got it ! you've got it ! was his usual faluta
tation upon feeing any one with a pale coun
tenance. I have been assured that he pro
nounced to Dr. Qlentworth, that he would
be a dead man if he would not submit to
more bleeding, after he had reduced him al
most to death's*«door by the violence of his
remedies.* Two other physicians being
called in, thought otherewife, and the Do£l.
recovered without any more loss of the vi
tal fluid, not with [landing this alarming and
positive prognofticatiofl.
His pronouncing Mr. Michael Connor to
be infedied with the yellow fever, when
just recovered from the ague and fever, oc*
cafioned a relapse—The fame gentleman as
cribes the loss of his amiable daughter to
the drastic operation of his mercurial purges.
Wh«n applied to by Mr. Chancellor to
visit a patient with Dr. Hodge, he advised
him to dismiss Dr. H. for he was a bark
and wine Do&or, and would do him more
harm than good.
Dr. W. he said was an aflaffin, because he
expressed some doubts of the superior effica
cy of mercurial purges to those of a less
drastic kind. 1
In hi» leti«r to Dr. R*vdgc», after treat
ing.the ajjinibiia of*ll his fellow praftition
crs with the mofl insulting contempt, and de
claring that he believes himfelf the unwor
thy instrument in the hands of a kind pro
vidence of recovering more than 99 of an \
100 of his patients, he adds, "it was ex
tremely unfortunate that the new remedies
were ever conilefted with my name," and
that he claimed no other merit than that of
having early adopted and extended a mode
of treating the disorder which he had learn
ed from his firft preceptor in medicine Dr.
Redman, and which is strongly reeommend
ed by Hilary, Mofely, Mitchel, Kirby, and
many other writ«rs on the fever."
The Dodtor certainly intended to write
a romance, for there is no mention in any
of the authors he refers to of mercurial pur
ges, or of resting the cure of the disease on
copious bleeding and purging, or that God
had blefled copious bleeding and purging
in their hands, as any person that can read
may fatisfy himfelf. Mofely indeed de
pends much on copious bleeding in cases 1
where the inflammatory symptoms arc mani
feft, but all the reft inculcate sparing bleed- 1
ing and the most mild purges The recol- 1
left ion of things were not to his 'pur- 1
post, hence thfe convenience ofhaving agood <
momory at forgetting things that would <
prove obftacle6 to our fche.meß—All good j
democrats acquire this kind of memory. 1
The Doftor here remembered to forget <
the information be formerly acknowledged 1
he had received from Doftors Hodge and 1
Carson, refpefting the efficacy of mercurial 1
purges in bilious cases. He also remember- j
ed to forget having seen the good ,effefts t
produced by "Weeding a fat cook in Water c
ftrcet, the day after he had threatened to t
prosecute Dr. Barnwell for a design upon j
the life of Mrs. Rofs in Walnut street, be- ! f
cause he blod her in the very fame kind of ] I
fever that he now applauds it in, and em- c
ploys as a cordial and anodine, and in def- c
perate cases, to make the patient die easy. \
He also remembered to forget to mention, r
that he adopted his sanguinary code not a
from Draeo but from Mofely, who was a c
mere empiric that praftifed in Jamaica some 1
years ago. c
He dfo, in a most extraordinary manner,
remembered to forget the viftims that were '
falling by the hands of his apostles, at the a
very time ( that he was boasting of recover
ing more than nituty-tiiae of a hundred.
To crown all his extravagances, he has
lately threatened to prosecute Dr. Hodge £
for telling Dr. Way, on the 2d day of
his fever, that he thought he might recover n
without any more bleeding. The cafe of j
Dr. Way is briefly this:-—He was attacked j
on Sunday with the usual fymptomp of the r
prevailing fever; bled himfelf in tfie night
about 12 ounces; next day was bled.by t
advice of Dr. Rush three times ; took mer- j l
curial purges, which operated very copious-
ly ; on Tuesday had an intermission ; was
again bled once, and purged several times. c
On Wednesday he took without advice 8
grains of mercufius dulcis; had all along
since the attack observed the most abftemi- "
oifs and cooling regimen. By whose direc
tion he was bled on Wednesday I do not
know, for Dr. Rufli did not visit him after \
dinner that day. The mercury that he h
took of his own accord on Wednesday 3
morning, brought on pain, sickness and ii
spasms in his bowels, and occafiontd such tl
extreme debility that he funk under it, and a
expired on Friday evening. The account h
of the treatment till Wednesday morning, ji
the writer had from Dr. Way himfelf. o
From this statement, I think Dr. Rflfli
exempt from blame in the cafe of Dr. W^y; o
and that there are cases of high inflamma-- J 1
tion in which the patient sometimes reco- 18
vers, under the most herculean discipline, I
his moil inveterate enemies mutt ackuoW- 0
ledge. ~ I' 1
*" V y ou twV/ not fulmil to my advice fays ti
be, fettle your affairs, for you have a dropsy of is
the train, and will soon it a dead man." c
~ Trim the American Daily Adverser*
r " MefTra.'C la* poole,
A certain physician in this city, it is said
» in a late publication, has loft but one patient
out of seventy in the prevailing fevtr. It
e will be humane at the present diitrt;fling fea
g son, fir him' to mention his narae, and alio
k- his remedied, that less fuccefsful praftioners
'f may adopt them, a citizen.
d Oft. 3d, 1797.
[That those " unfuecefsful praftioners"
<■ who have persevered to this time, in the hor
-- rid practice, of bleeding patients to the mo-
I- ment of death- (and of this having been dope
f- ample proof (hall be adduced) will ever be
deterred from continuing those murderous
1- courses, by any thing bu# a prefentm<?nt
o from the Grand Jury, as public nuisances,
t does not appear to me so probable <is it would
e seem to this citizen.
1- Nevertheless, lam ready to give him the
1- name he seeks, for his private fatisfaftion.
1- I have not asked permission to communicate
d it to the public, nor (hall I. The gentle
o man alluded to, builds his fame on more fub T
I- ftantial and solid foundations than newfpa
is per celebrity. The faft, in the mean time,
g remains undisputed ; and I defy any man to
:. weaken the force either of the faft itfelf or
i- the inevitable deduftions to be drawn from
d it.
As to any' uncommon, or set mode of
0 praftice, unknown to others of the medical
n faculty, having produced this wonderful fuc
■- cess, no such thing is pretended.' How dos
you think, then, it is brought about ? By
0 avoiding the praftice of copious bleeding.
'. And while I render that tribute of applause
0 fojuftly due to distinguished success (which,
1 whatever may be said, is the only clear proof
c of distinguished merit) let'rr.e not to
e nuntion, that tho' this is an 'instance rare,
if not unparalleled, yet, a- proportionate
e degree of success has uniformly attended the
- I practice of those other profefiimial gentle
s men who have " beeD fpwing of the lancet."
I defy any man to cpnteft tliis, which'l assert
- a fiift. X fiav; also aifcther ttftijSWwy i
- against Blood, equally ftp'king aod impor
tant, which ftiall*be brought forward at a
- proper time.]
*1 T ——- —
- Friendly Advice to the People, on the present
' ra S ' n g Diseases,
1 nr the *er. dr. colvn,
f WE have passed through many forrowful
e j weeks, and we have reafcn to apprehend fur
- ther attacks from the /hafts that so cruelly
. afflift our mortal frames, and wound our
- fouls to the quick, by the loss of our-deareft
i friends. How far the efforts of man may
delay that diflblution which mult finally fe
e parate us from this world, we know not ;
r but it is a duty to preserve all pro
- mifing means ; and also, to smooth the paf
i sage of the grave. Extreme fiifFerings 6f
1 departing friends, impress a sadness On the
( heart that cannot soon be obliterated, tho' -
1 '.ve know that they were nothing in compari
son to thefucceeding and permanent fullnefs
sos joy. ■
PublidWTlrefs demands public attention ;
- every perlßn is in confciencc bound to fur
- nifh what information he can. Was this
- done more generally, muih light would be
1 collefted, and best physicians would re
l ceive aid from the observations of candid and
I judicious persons. I
! 1 The present epidemic is, like that of '9,
: aiverfified in many forms and degrees.—it is
I more or less bilious, nervous, putrid, or fn
l flammatory— it affefts the stomach, head,
I ( back, differently : in general, all fevers in
■ America are thus varied, by seasons, conftj
-1 tutions, local circumstances, &c. Thisprin
cible being undoubted, it is imreafonable to
fj treat this disease in a uniform manner. The
proper y&Jlow fever is by no means the most
_ 1 frequent of these varieties, and the worst
species is rare. 1 his disease is, indeed, one
of the least known, because it does not oc
■ cur in the most civilized parts of Europe,
which have many excellent physicians. Toe
1 medical authors who have seen it jn the East
aqd Weft-Indies, are few : the most judici
-1 ous among them confefs their obfeure know
ledge of it ; arid the others disagree in opini
on. In the beginning its appearances are
seldom so striking as to show its real quality.
Whenever these are doubtful, violent mail'
agement is wrong, because more harm may
be donethancan be repaired by analteredme
thod. Extreme evacuations may be proper
in a few cases, but Ihould by no mean'') be j
general rules, becauf- we know not whether
. they can reach the morbid cause ;or whether
exhaustion may not disable the powers of
. nature from a necessary co-operation. Mo
derate bleeding and purging is at firft fafeft.
Immoderate purgings are not sure means of
removing that vomiting fe- dreadful in this j
fever, as I have fonnd in many cases. 'Quef- 1
tionable mineral medicines are, undoubted
ly, hurtful to many confutations. The
moft/nild among the vegetable are also pre
ferable, if they can keep the bocfy fuffi- '
ciently open, because they do not increase '
the irritation of the intestines. J
1
NEW-YORK, 'Oftober 3. \
The proportion for a union of the new t
Venetian state, with the Cisalpine republic, 1
has been tejefted, by 15,700 votes against }
OOO— If, as some suppose, Buonaparte c
intends to ereft Italy, from Piedmont to ,
the Adriatic, into one indivisible republic, t
and/put himfelf at the head of rt, a few co>.(
luMuis of his troops will easily turn the ma- ;
jority of votes in favor of the proposed union t
of Venice with Lombardy. L
By die address of Carnot to the French /
on the celebration of the 10th of.Auguft, J
. it is observed that the government of France /
is assailed by efforts to restore monarchy.— L
Indeed the late cleflion is a proof that the >
opinions of the mass of the nation are un
friendly to the measures of the government; j
if not the constitution. But even admit- r
ting the faft, that a majority of the nation t
is iu favor of a limited monarchy, the diffi- c
cult:c3 cf restoring it, which Carnot has def- j
cribed, are real—they may be unfurinount*
able—and if the present constitution can ex
d and preserve peace and subordination ts
t <*w, good Frenchmen will submit to it, ra
t ther than risk the dangerous storms of ano
[. ther revolution,
o i
•s ALEXANDRIA/Sept. 21.
Tuesday afternoon a court was held for
the examination of John Perry, charged
with being concerned in fitting out and arm
» ing a veflel within the United StaUs.'for
r . the purpose of cruifirfg against the fubjefts
j. of a nation with whom we ate at peace,
le &c
---ie Ihe most material evidence for the pro
,s fecutioti was Captain Willis, whose teftimo
it n T was in substance as follows:—that in
the month of January last, on his homeward
d bound passage from Guadeloupe, he spoke
a new copper bottomed schooner from Nor
e wich in Couneaicut, called the Uncas, with
i. mules "P on her deck—that on his'returning
;e I to Giiadaloupe, some time after, he found
»_ that this schooner had been converted into
j_ a piivateer, and had taken some prfzes, par
u ticnlarly a (hip called the Betsey of Glasgow
—that in aconverfation he had with Perry,
q he said he was on board the schooner when
ir spoken by him in January, and fuy.hef"ae
n knowledged that he was then ijiterefted in
said schooner, as a privateer—that Perry
,f, was publickly spoken of at Gaudiloupe as
,J part owner and agent for the privateer,
which was then called the Victorious.
Q Mr. Murray's teilimony corroborated in
y slating the prevailing opinion at Gauda
r. laupe, of Perry's being und-rflood as part
" e owner and agent for this privateer
i, ; After a full and candid hearing of evj
,f i dence and the refpeftive counsel employed
o ; upon the occalion, the court were of an un>
] animous opinion that Perry's cafe eame un
e 1 der cogizat.ee of a law of Congress paffcd
e | 11 \>4> which fuhje&s citizens of the Uni
- jjed States guilty of the offence ior which
" nie wsis indi&ed, to imprisonment of not
t more than three years, and a fine not excee
y ding 5000 dollars.,
•- The'court admitted Perry to bail on his
a £' mn S security in the sum of* 5000 dollars
foj- his appearance at the Federal Court to
b~ held in the diftrift of Virginia, to which
a final decision is referred.
1/ Before the fame court, Mr. Robert Hara
j ikon, of this town, was examined on a
j charge not very dissimilar to the above. The
,J only evidence' adduced in this cafe was his
. own ■ >hiiitary confelTion. Sjindky moniing
y ! Mr. Hamilton meeting several
r ; on his wharf, he defiired that thev would
t step into his counting room, where he obfer
y ved to that underftandirig a report
. ; w?» in circulation that he had been concern
. i ed in a privateer, fitted out of £he United
. States, was desirous ofreprefenting the mat?
ter in its true light, in order that they
f might contradift any misrepresentation
e .which the'tongue of rumour would
' bly originate. He then stated that in the
. ! year '93, a friend in Baltimore, without
s i fjjs knowledge or advice, purchased a part
in a privateer—that he was firft informed
; of this circumstance by letter, stating qKo
. that he was considered as interested in a
5 third pirt of the purchase—that he accord
. iflgly gave his friend, who was indebted to
. him, Credit for that proposition of the share
[he brought in'the privateer (as he shewed
by his book, 1 ) amounting to 48 8/1 that
t he afterwards received through him, 900
. dollars, as a dividend of a prize made bv
. said privateer, iince which he hat! not heard
( further of her than a report that (he was
, captured and destroyed by the enemy.
The attorney remarked that a prgfecution
would not lie, inasmuch as it was required
, bylaw, that it (hould be commenced in
two years after the commifiion of the offence
but that the court might demand security
against , the'repetition of it." The court
coincided with the attorney in regard to the
point of law; but bound him to a sum of
2009 dollars, being unanimously of opinion
that be had been guilty of a high misde
meanor. '
£ DENTON, (N. C.J S eft' 21.
Friday lajl arrived the schooner Little Ga
briel, Leven Bozman, majler,frcm Antigua.
Capt. Bozman was,on the ult. in lajl 2(5,
30, long. 68, an his homeward bouwl pajfsge,
captured by a French armed brig called the
Pandora, commanded by Chiz.en Garifcan,
from St. Domingo, mounting 12 fix pounders.
After examining his papers, sealing them up,
they were delivered to a prize mallet;, whe,
wiih 5 men, armed and equipped, Ijol pojfrjf-,
on of the Little Gabriel. The brig then bore
away for St. Domingo,(leering S. by IV. S. S.
IV. and S. until the 6th day, when land af>.
peaved* which they supposed to be Porto Rico;
in consequence of which the crew of the schooner"
which had been preyiovjly' taken out werf
sent on board ; but on dijcovering they were in
Samana bay, in Hifpaniola, they again took out
the erew, except the Capt. mate, supercargo,
and a negro man, and hauled upon a wind with
intend to beat round the eajl end of Hifpaniola,
to the port of St. Domingo. The privateer
bri" always appeared near fit handftnee she bad
pojfefton. On the 2oth of Sti-gu]}, having pro
cured their arms, Captain 80-z.lT.an, wi:h the
remainder of his crew immedifUelv ordered the
prize master and his gang below, which being
accompli/led without llondjhed, one of them was
demanded on deck to cjfjl in hoifiing out thf
boat, while a centinel was placed at the hatth
jway. Being Jhort of water it was judged
mojl prudent to give them the boat, which
accordingly/lone, with every necejfary prov'ifttn
and direßions to make the bejl of their way on
jhore, Cape Raphael then bearing S. by W. di-
Jlant about 5 leagues, and the privateer Jlill iu
fight from, the deck. The schooner then made
alt failfleering for Occacockbar,, wherefhe ar
rived the 4th injlaut.
7he above privateer had capturedfeven other
prizes, 4 brigs, 2 schooners, and a Jloop, A
mong whom Capt. Btzman heard of the
names of Capt. Mintague. of thefloQp Depen
dence, of Norfolk, and Capt. Wheat on, of th
schooner Juno, of New-Tort,i>y this day's Mail.
NEW YORfC, October 5.
IMPORTANT.
A report was current in town yesterday,
but by what authority we are not authorised
to fay, that a vessel arrived at Boftori on
Sunday, from Guernsey, in a short pafTage,
who spoke a vessel at fes, the captain of
which informed him, that ha was eye-witness
to an engagement between the Spanish and
English fleets, having laid to several hours
to observe their manoeuvres, and when he
parted with them the aftion was undecided.
Thi3 day's Eastern Mail will decfde as to
the validity of this account. Argus.
Captain Arden'« company of independent
Ringers have offered their services as part
of the quota required for this city and
county, for the ferviceof the United States.
A counterfeit "five dollar bank bill of the
bank of Salem has been dete&ed in circu
lation in that town.
— *
BOSTON, o<st. i.
LETTERS FROM LONDON.
" "J 1 *97-
Trom Mr Bayard, the American commercial
agent in Loncion . " After many exertions, and
tmic' patient attendance, at Dolors Commons,
and the Vreafury, I have at length bfen ahleto ob
tain compenfatiou from the Britifli govcr m*nt, fir
lofles fuflaijied, by many of our fellow citizens,
for the captu-e and detention of their velTels, irT
that dafs of cases, called cafe* of cols and dama
ns. I received the last Safnrday, £.34,443, Br.
5d fieri"
. [The d cifions mad? by the board, appointed un
der '.heTommiflionen for American el :ims, have,
in th- inflance alluded to in tlie above letter of Mr.
Birard'f, anil ih every other, been ample and fat
isfiflory ; and in no cafe, has the American com- |
i)i:roial agent been under the'ueceffi y of appeal
ins; from their judgment, a right inverted in him
This tribute is due to the magnanimity and juflice
of the board.]
" /fuguft II , 1797.
u Unfortunately for the fufferers, the
Martinique captures are not yet tried; we
have waited a long time ; they are expe&ed
toc»me on next week, as they were this.
It is not believed, however, that the Ad
miralty, or Lords of Appeals, will decree
a sentence, commensurate to the damage.
Next summer, the Commiflioners, we doubt
not, will compleat what they have so well
begun; about eighty or ninety claims have
already been fettled, and paid for by this
government."
" Augujl 11, 1797.
" I wrote by the Belvidera, about 10
days since, to inform you, that the n»nies
awarded in several cases, had been paid by
government. I have since
the individuals to draw on me here for their
refpeftive sums. The Board of Comrr.iflitjn
ers will not ajain meet until the ift of No
vember. So far as we have progressed, all
has out well. God grant the ter
mination of the business may be equally fa
vourable."
" Augujl 12, 1797.
« The question of recovering, against
the underwriters on where the (hip,
has been warranted American, and has been
condemned in France, together with the
cargo, for not being documented, agreeably
to the treaty .between the two countries,
has Veen tried in the court of king's bench,
in the cafe of the Commerce, warrauted
American (hip, bound from Lilbon to Lon
don, and carried into Nantes, and there
condemned on that ground. Lord Kenyon
held, that every man was bound to conform
to the laws and treaties of his own country;
that in warranting the (hip neutral, or A
"merican, he obliged himfelf to prove her
qualified with every document necefTary by
their laws and treaties, to support her neu
trality and that it she was condemned for
any default in them, the warrant .was not
made out, and consequently the under
writer was exonerated. This decision is
conformable to some precedents established
last war by lord Mansfield, in cases of other
neutral vcffels under similar circumftapees,
and was generally txpedled. But it will
involve much American property insured
here, and leave the owners no chance of
redress, but from the trench government.
It is matter of great surprise hjre, that
your citizens have exposed so many of their
vessels to confifcation, by negleaing to pro
vide them witH the papers which the treaty
of 177R acknowledges to be necefTary, in
cafe df France being at war with any other
power, and the very form of whick that
treaty prescribes."
PITTSBURGHs Sept. 30,
That fart of the extraa of a letter, publi/hrj
in mir lajl, under the Pittsburgh head, which
mentions, that " the inhabitants at the Natchez
are in open rebellion, and have difplaytd the
French colours," is a miflahe.—lt is the peo
ple of Kajiajiias, which is within the gavela
ment of thctyorth IV(ftern Territory, and
where the laws of the United States have been
in force for several years Particulars we
have not yet heard, but have no doubt that some
of Citizen Adet'sfpies an among them. It ts
to be wished that if any of themjhould fall into
the hands of General IVilkinfon, he will grace
„ pole with their heads injlead of a French
Libert/Cap.
Extraff of a letter from a gentleman of chn
raSer at Cahokia to a gentleman at Detroit,
dated June 16, 1797* . .
«An American party to the number, it is
laid, of no, have df played thejlandard of the
French Republic—have adopted the name of
Sans Culottes, and will acknowledge no other
laws than the French laws. The justices al
ready fay that they dare notfet on the bench.
J believe they have reason to fear.
"""Red*Port Wine.
Tuft arrived, by the brig Iris, capt. Rhodes, from
J -Oporto,
Red Port Wine in pipes, hhds. quarter cafe*
icewt. Cork,for feit fey .
Philips, Cxamond, & Co.
InUr IT.
Xije ©ascttc.
PHILADELPHIA,
FRITUY RVSNINO, Ocroßfß_6.
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
From sth to 6th Qdlober, ill the morning.
Admitted, since last report,
Hugh M'Mullin—Fifh house, Drawbridge.
Lefler—Fifher's, Vernon street.
Wm. Gamble—Tittermary's Rope walk.
Christian Overftag—Kenfington. 1
Eliz. Magee,Front, ft. opposite Lombard ft.
Discharged since last report:
Ann Potter, admitted 21ft ult.
Remaining last report 50
Admitted since 5
"itcvr •. tm
Discharged I
Died o I
Remains in Hospital. va lefcenti9^
t Five of whom are dangerous.
In erred since last report.
From city and suburbs 6
Hospital o
Total 6
Stephen Girard.
(Signed) Caleb Lownes.
John Connelly.
Published by order of the Board,
Wm. MONTGOMERY,
Chairman protem.
£> THE TWO CHARITY SERMONS,
Which werepoftpohed last on ac
count of the weather, will be preached on
Sunday next; one in the morning at eleven
o'clock, by the Rev. Dr. Blair ; the other
in the afternoon at four o'clock, by the
Rev. Mr. Abercrombie.
Germantown, 6th. oSober
At a meeting of the guardians of the
poor, held at the Alms-house, Oftobcr
sth, 1797
Resolved, That the president notify the
public, that the following Ovtrfeers attend
to their duty for the relief of the poor in the
City and Liberties, with the addition of Mr.*
William Young, and Mr. Thomas P. Cope,
who have offered their service during the
present calamity.
John Smith . "] v
Joseph Galley | for the crty of Philadel-
Thoß. P. Cope }> phia in their several dif-
Wm. Young | tri&s.
Peter Mierckin J
George Sheed 1 for Southwark in their
Alexander Sted J refpeftiie diftrifts.
John Wier "I for the township of the
Michael Baker S- Northern Liberties in their
StandilhForde J refpeftive diftrifts.
Published by ordrr of the board,
PETER MIERCKIN, Pres'dt.
The commissioners-appointed by the go
vernor, for alleviating the distresses of the ci
tizens, have received since last report the fol
lowing donations, viz.
Dolls.
William Davidfon, Third ft. / 20
Jofiah H«wcs 100
Do£lor Heylin 8
William Dawfon and Son 20
James Wills 10
Cash 20.
Clerks of the Bank of North Anerica, 50
Henry Tolapd 50
James Yard 100
John Miller, stone-cutter 50
EDWA RD GARRIGUES, Sec'ry.
TO THE PUBLIC.
In a letter lately published in Mr. Fen
no's paper, I came forward with thf initial
of my surname. This I have since had
reason lincerely to regret. William Cobbett,
after announcing this letter, in a manner
highly illnatured and ungentlemanly, has
thought fit, not only to republilh, but most
strikingly misrepresent it.
In the fifth sentence, in the third line,
the words he has, Mr. Cobbett has
inserted the word long, which is not in the
original letter ; from a review of which, it
will appear evident, that this word must
have been an intentional addition. To
place this in a clear light, and to put it be
yond all doubt, it is only necessary so ob
serve, that he has printed the words he has
long* (differently from'the origmal) in ita
lics ; and at the bottom, has added a com
m,ent. on the very word by himfelf interpo
lated ;' which comment is wholly inapplica
ble to any part of the letter, as it appeared
in Mr. Fenno'cs pajjfir.
Trifling as this circumstance may appear,
it is evident that it must be considered as a
matter of no small importance. If a printer
is at liberty thus to alter and misrepresent
a piece, the contents of which he may hap
pen to dislike ; —if, to suit his own pur
poses, he can thus fhamefully and malici
oiifiy mutilate the publications he may meet
with ; and all this under the fan&ion of the
liberty of the press beware, fellow citi
zens, how you eommit your communica
tions to the public.
And what must be your opinion of the
honor ajid integrity of the man, who, if
he has nothing else' to lay hold of, (loops
to such mean and despicable (hifts, in order
to give vent to a malignant disposition. I
therefore call on Mr. Cobbett, if he is pof
fefled of a particle of candor, publicly to
retrah this misrepresentation. I well know
that in coming forward in the public papers,
I lay myfelf open, not only to his, but to
every other person's animadversions ; and I
cheerfully leave him at liberty, to comment
on, to republish, and to abuft, any and
"fcvery thing I may write in futdre ; but in
justice to the public, to him and to myfelf,
I entreat him to do it without perversion
arid misrepresentation.
THOS. HORSFIELD.
* % * The continuation of Dr. Currie's
letter to Mr. Wynkoop, will be given to
morrow.
Total of hutia.lt for 24 hours, ending yejler
day at noon.
Grown Persons. Childr;n.
ChriA Church I o
St. Peter's I o
St Paul's I o
Associate Church r o .
' St. Mary's Church I o
s Swedes <, I mm o
Moravians o 1
City Hospitals 7 o
11 1
* Six frrm the city a»A fuiarbt.
The number of burials on the sth of OSob«r,
1793, wasfeventy tight.
IW.D, on the sth September u!t at Million, a
Village near iintnfwick in fca* J-r'f'-"
rf bis rf a mallwam few
gi* Ot wbictffe received iff Philadelphia fir
prt vinu; to jhe attack of the frver) Me. Archi
bald Cummins Cmic," merchant, the only ion of
the late P.cv. George Craig -—The uncommon pru
dence, friendly disposition, manly conduit, and en
gaging manners of this young gentlemen, endear
ed him to all his acquaintance, and rentiers bis loss
a ienfible misfortune.
Deaths in Baltimore, during the 24 hours
ejtding OA. 3, at sunrise
Extraft of a letter from a eitizen of the
-JJnited States, dated at Cape Francois,
■the 21 ft September, 1797.
" I have the pleasure to acquaint you,
that since the departure of Santhonax, 12
American vefTels have been liberated. But
it must be understood that these veflels were
either going to or coming from French
ports. They as usual condemn our vefTels
bound to British ports, or vessels bound to
French ports when they'are captured with
their registers endorsed (by British naval of
ficers) before they can reach these ports ;
and in no instance do they permit our ves
sels to depart with their outward cargoes.
The administration generally takes th« pro
visions 08 a credit."
At a meeting <if a number pf'the cijiien*
of Philadelphia, held at the Union -Scfhool
House in GermantoWn, on Saturday, the
30th day of September, 1797 :
It was agrted unanimously, to recom
mend the following gentlemen as suitable
charaAers to fill the offices which precede
their refpe&ive names :
Member of the Senate of the Jiate of Penn
sylvania, for the diJlriß composed of the
x- city and county of Philadelphia and county
of Delaware :
- * Benjamin R. Morgan.
Members »f tbe House of Representatives for the
City of Philadelphia.
George Latimer Robert Wain
Jacob Hiltzheimer Lawrence Seckel
Joseph Ball Francis Gurney.
Members of the SeleU Council of the City of
Philadelphia : I
Godfrey Haga Henry Pratt
James Read Francis Gurney.
Members of the Common Council of the City
of Ph iladelph ia :
Matthias Saddler Michael Keppele
James Todd Walter Franklin
Thomas Parker, Thomas Allibone
George Pennock James S. Cox
Edward Pennington,Henry Drinker, Jun.
Kearny Wharton, C*Spar W, Morris
Jo r eph Hopkinfon Thomjis P. Cope
Thomas Greeves Levi HoHiogfworth
Conrad Gerhard Lawrence Herbert
Gideon H. Wells George Fox.
Pubh'fhed by order of the Meeting,
HENRY PRATT, Chairman.
JOHN HALLOWELL, Sec'r/
> At a county meeting, held at the widow
Lepher's Tavern in Gennantown qn Thurs
day the sth of OAober 1797, it was unani
mously agreed to support the following per
sons at the ensuing ele&ion, to fill the offi
ces tO;,which their names are affixed.
Senator.
Benjamin R. Morgan.
Jfembly. I
Richard Tittermary Peter Miercken
Joseph Copperthwait- Samuel Wheeler
Thomas Paul Thomas Forreft.
THOMAS DUNGAN, Chair.
Charles W. Hare, Sec'ry.
The Citizens of Philadelphia at present
residing at Germantown, Frankford, and
other places in the vicinity of the City—are
earnestly called upon not to negleft giving
in their fuffrages at the approaching eledi
on. man is unworthy of the bleflings
of freedom, who possessing the right of co
operating in the appointment of public offi
cers, not only negle&s to make it a duty,
but tamely looks on te behold eveiy pofTef
fion that is of importance ,to him, put in
jeopardy by thf- intrigues and machinations
of wicked caballers.
It will be\ fomtwhat troublesome; but
nothing in competition with the import
ant interests at stake on the iflue. As to
danger, on account of the Fever, surely no
man need be under apprehensions on that
fsore ; As it is only necefiary to go to the
State-House, and depoiit the vote, which
may be done in a few minutes, without invol
ving a necessity for the lead exposure tp in
fection. Ask yourselves, citizens, upon a
question, whether you will choose good men
to tranfaA your important publie concerns,
or have bad men forced upon you, if the
the cafe be not worth your carj. ,
C I V I S. •<
PRICES OF STOCKS,
Philadelphia, tith Sept. 1797*
6 per Cent. „ 16/8
i per C«>nt. ld~n
Deferred (5 per Cent. !. ] /4
BANK United States, 18 per ct. advance.
. Pennfyljrama, 21 do.
r — North Amerifa, 46 <'o.
Co. N. A (bares 45 to 50 <jo,
Pennfylvania, par
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days par
— at 60 days ,
11 at 90 days 61
Amsterdam, perguildek * 4°
u 90 days 4i
The Editor, pre tempore, of this paper,
having, in the ordinary eourfe ot his proses- !
fion, experienced a moll extraordinary and
novel alTault, in a persecution coirtmeneed a
gainst opinion, by one who thought proper to
construe to his own prejudice certain para
graphs which appeared at different times in
this Gazette, thinks it proper to declare to
the public, that althr.' he is determined* to
hold no measure with an open enemy, yet,
as his views ever bsen dire&ed to the
propagation of fnch truths as may be ufeful
to us in our political or social state, he of
fers, himfelf as the impartial organ through
which the sentiments of the opposite parties
may be communicated to/ the public. As
a thorough knowledge of the nature aird
tatment of the -pre sent malady, is of the
highest importance to the welfare and hap
piness of this eountry, lie invites the com
munications of those profelfiarial and litera
ry gentlemen, whose experience and know
ledge may throw light on this interesting
fubjes. On a point of such general dif
cuflion, and on which he, like many others,
can fay but too mtieh from fatal experience,
it is to be expected that every one will have
forpied some opinion—yet, as that opinion
may be founded on partial" fafts, or partial
representations, he is willing to renounce his
own in favor of "those ev.i: of his persecutor,
when the latter (hall have acquired the sanc
tion of experience and generjf
But as a question of a much bfglflF nature, 1
than the good or ill will of a weak, petulant
individual, is implicated in the process insti
tuted against the editor, he feels himfelf
bound in duty and honor, as a member of
this free community, to adhere to his wont- (
ed Jine of conduft, and to give to the world
the sentiments of his correspondents, with
out ftipuldting f«r the language in which
they are to be cloathed. He ever has bten
and will be careful not to touch persons, and
as for opinions he cannot but thijjk that,
maugre all that Sangrado can fay or do,
they must and will (hilt for themselves.
v
The Jacobin faction, curious to relate,
are about attempting something new and
before unheard of. A- new political denomi
nation is to be instituted ; and to back the
foi-difant republicans in their noxious
schemes, we are to have a publican exalted
into the Grand Council of the Common
wealth.
*A Stated Meeting of the American
Philosophical Society will be held at their Hall
at 6 o'clock thrt evening.
Friday, OS. 6.
Cj* The bufmefs of the CUSTOM-HOUSE,
will from this day be tranfaSed a t Chester
for some time. ■ , '
Sept. 30.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Pojtr of Philadelphia.
ARRIVED AT THIS PORT.
Ship Ann & Mary, Bills St. Thomas
, Enterprise, Norris w
Brig Alexander, Wheler ~ Havanna
Able Catherine, Rolof St. Croix
§chr. Fancy, Hajlon Tor tola
Adventure f Sadler Nova Scotia
Sloop Supply, IVallis L'Ameveau
Philadelphia iff N. York Packet, Arqum
Brilliant, IVatfou Tavannah,
The Enterprise, after receiving the v ifit
from the. DoSor, dropped down to diefler.
Arrived yejlerday morning the Danifhfchoo
ner Protcas, capt. Thompson, after a passage
of 80 days from Leghorn—:n the 2 2 Aug.
off Madeira, was hoarded ly two English fri
gates fn>m~Gabrihar, on a cruize, ivho.iyfar
med him they had taken a Spani/h brig, and
retaken two English flips, tbe trcw of the Spa
nish brig ten, in number, were.put on b card
capt. Thompson, brought them fafe to
this port.
New-York, O&'ober 5.
arrived. Days
Ship Olive, Dupee, Baltimore 15
Hope, Bnrr„ Port Piatt 12
Brig James, Newficld, Guadaloupe 22
Union, Maxfield, Cape Francois 12
Farmer, Havannah 22
Sehr. Apollo,' , St. Jago Cuba 21
Maffachnfetts, Dickey,
St. Anguftine 16
Chryfeis, Campbell, Port a Paix 13
Americana, Bell, Wilmington 5
Brig Luqy, Gore, from Jamaica for this
port, is captured and sent into St. Jago do
Cuba.
Schr. Expedite, Clapp, is taken by the
French and sent into Guadaloupe.
The (hip Independence, capt. Taber,
has fafe arrived at Amsterdam, after a pas
sage of 41 days from Charleston.
The (hip BelifariU9, John Crownfhield,
maimer, of Salem, arrived at the Isle of
France the 9th of May, 93 days from Bor
deaux, and failed for Calcutta on the ift of
June.
Ship Ameriea, Crownfhiuld, of Salem,
left Tranqu ebar 3d April for Calcutta.
The Leeds Packet and the Orange are
both arrived at Amsterdam.
Schr. Porpoise, Beedle, from New-Prov
idence bound to this port, was ftrucfc by a
squall of wind on Sunday last, off Cipe May,
which carried away her masts and bowsprit
and otherwise damaged the vessel so much
that the crew were compelled to abandon
her. They were taken up by the brig
James arrived last evening.
Sloop Farmer of this port is carried in
to Port de Paix by a French privateer.
Bostons September 30.
Arrived this day, fchr. Camilla, Lille,
Liverpool. Left there, Boston Packet,
Trott ; Delight, Wilfop ; and Hope, Cand
ler. of Boston, to fail next wiud ; fcli'r,
Franklin, Waters ; capt. Cutter, in a fchr.
and brig Sally, Bofworth, of Kennebeck,
to fail soon. The (hip Alligator, Harris,
of Pprtfmouth. arrived the day btfore capt.
Lille failed, in apaflago 0f,.38 davs. Bc
fide the above, there are advertised in the
Fhcmx, of Atigu'ft, 5, the snow
Lliza, Benfon,.; John, Tyfoh ; and Prefi
dftnt, Smith, to fail for Baltimore. Tlx?
Peggy, Elliot,, ffr.d Diamond, Eaftburn,
for Philadelphia. The Swan, Woodman,
and Catherine, Macey, for New-York
The Commerce, Young, for Edenton, to
fail 20th Augtrft. The Pattv, Lee, far
Virginia," to fail soon. Also, 'just arrived,
Betsy, Peacock, frbm Virginia; fcobuft,
Kennan, from do.
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Coffee
Madeira and Teneriff2 Wine
For Sale by
James Yard,
No. —, South Fourth-street.
d iw
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
flf not before disposed of at private sale)
ON Friday, the firft of December next, a' fix
o'clock in the efening; ef the Merchants' Cof
fee -ttoufe, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine
Hundrrd and Thirty Nine Hnudred acres of L'VND,
1 now or late.in theCoun'yof Walh ngton, and Com
movweilth of Pennsylvania, and on the Waters of
Freth and Wheeling Creek's and Ten Mile Run.—
These Lands are fertile and well'timbered, and were
patenleed rarly in 1787, except 3700, as or thprea- '
bou s, which were patenter 1 , in 1792 One fourth
o f th.-* purchase money to be paid at tKe time of sale,
lor ihe residue a credit of one, three months,
will be given, orf interest and good feturity.
| __ Ofloberjj. 33 wtS
T(vbe Sold at Public IVendue,
(If not before disposed of at private sale)
ON F iciay, the fir It day of December, at
o'clock in the everting, at the Merchants'Coffe c
House. in Philadelphia. Twenty Mx 7'houfuid Se"*
i van Hu d'*d and Eighty acres of LAND* in she
State of New-York, between the northern bounds
of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehanna, new, or late,
in the townships o\ Hamden and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery One fourth of the purchase
money i» o oe paid at the time of sale ; for 'he le
(idue a credit of one, two. and three months 'wVU be
given, on interest and good feCUrity.
O'&■<&* 6. V gawtS
Insurance Com pan \ of the Sfcate
of Pennsylvania.
I Office wist he kept until further notice at
I the School House in Gerniantown. TJi©
Company (till re.tatn the room in Chefnut, above
Seventh street, where a person will att, nd to re
ceive .yid give answers to applications, every day
from 10 until I o'clock.
Scpfr. 13. d3taawtf
Will be Landed,
From on board the ship - dive, Capt.BiAiß.froav
Hamburgh,
2Q bales white Russia clean Hemp
* calks Clover Seed >
For Sale by , r „ ,
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth street, NO. 34.
June 26. ' §
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than atiy other io
theCitv—
OF VARIOUS SIZSS,
From Bby 6 to jg by 14,
By the single Box or Quantity, may be had at that
(lore of the Subscribers, corner of Arch and Front
ftreet.
James C. & Samuel W. Fijher.
Bhtladelphia, JcneQ, 1797.
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chests of a superior quality—Alio,
roodo.of Hyson,
Imported in the H'ondrop !>ims, and for sale by
the fubferiber, corner of JSecond and Pine
firect.
C. Hairht.
T M ' O
T»tip 2-t. eotf
Cedar S/jingles.
THF. fubferiber has a quantity of J feet Cedar
Shingles of a superior quality, for sale at 13
dollars psr thousand. \
William Hallowe/1,
A T o. 193 North Thirdfireet.
Tuly 17- eont
Imported itl the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-street, .
. Hyson
Hyson Skin G'EAS
Young Hyson f <■
1 Imperial 3
April 20. Eot/
Fi>r sale or to be let on ground*
rent, 'i
Arvalunble Lot qf Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-eaftcorner of WaU
nut and Fifth -streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet frool
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet arid an half <jn Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of frtall tenements thereon.
' Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient flores, wharf, &c. ffPuate on
Water-street, between Mufberry and Saffafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth eaft
vvard ninety-five feet, then widening to th«
south thirteen fCet fix inches. Thele house»
2ve the convenisnce of a public alley adjoining
on the northlide, and are a very desirable situa
tion f< r a merchant, flour faflor,or others who
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on Very reasonable tdrmj
forcafh. For further information apply to th«
printer,
Julv ii. m&wtf
EleSort of Southwark, Moyamenfmg, and
Paffyunk..
THE General Elc&ioti will he held at the Com
miflioners' Hall, in. the t)i(lriisl of Sou h\var!;, at'
the house lately occupied by Mr. Samuei Gcff, at
the corner of Fifth and Chrillian ftreers, near the
Paflyunk road. Oci. 1.
MEDICIN E S.
OJF every Sind ntcefTary for the fck also. Sa
go, Bailey, and Oatmel, /or diet drink, will be
delivered gratis, during the ptefsnt contagion, tt>
th«fe who sre unable to pry for it, at Hunter'*
1 L.->iora,'«rv, No. I 14,» u o>!tii t-ccond Street.
' MED I C i N,eF
THE Poor who may find it inconvenient, front
distance, to make use of Mr. Hunter's truly me
ritorious offer, will be supplied with medicines—
fago, 'barley, oatmeal, &c. by applying at the
fubferiber's iicre, No. 36, M»t-ket-ftreet.
ROBERT S. STAFFORD.
' THE MAYOR'S OFFICE "
IE KEPT, rilß Tilt PRISEHT, A%
CI FY IiALL.
Sept. 8.Imported inthefIiipMANCHESTER, j
Benjamin Shewbll, Maß.er, | ~
From BourcKioux, and for sale 'jy the l'uhfcriber, •'
Wo. 11 Y.'ainut Sfreet.
Bonvileaux BrftnJy
Iriih market clart-t in cases Entitled to
Mctioc wine, in do. Drawback. j
Sauternc, dot do. thi
Thomas Murgatroyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE. I'J
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter casks i!
Rota do. ,» do.
■ Pimento in bags > .
4000 bulhels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder, at the house of IVlr.
William Evans, tiilr sign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 2.5 th
day of Osober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M j
About seven thousand acres of laud,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia, 1
lying between Reifter's-town and V\ j
commonly called Little Wim"befter r (the turn- •
pike roau runs through a conliderable part of
these lands) thi tra«fl begins about- 17 miles j
from Baltimore, within a f»«.' hundred yard* j
of fiid Reifler's-town, and extends to the dif- !
tance of a'-out twenty-three 171 ilea from B.ilti- j
rnort, on the niain falls of Patapfico j
river, from three to four miles thejeon. Will
be fold in trails of One hundred and fifty to
three hundred' acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadojv and wood land on each tra<ft,
some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and. fine gr; fs.
ALSO
A traft of feveil hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, withitl five miles of ry
Bladenlhurg, esteemed very good +>r (Jrals. t kj
Kichard Ponfonby,of Bladenfburgh, will lhew bo
this lartd to any person inclined to purchal'e. J"
ALSO, ' SI
A trt\£t of land fflf about three hun-, m
dred.aftd thirty awes, within about two ipiles ,
and a half of the President'» house in the Fedc- j
I'al City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine - _
high profpefl* from vl'hrch may be ften the
c?.'v of AVifhingtcil* Bladenfhurgh, Ale*aiWlria
aiid a part of GeorW-town, and many miles
down the Potomac rfVtr. Mr. Kichard Ponlonr
by, of Bladenfburg, will also shew this land. jj
A liberal credit will be given for the gteatcfl J
part of the porchafe money! Ihe term* will X
fce made known op the day »f sale. tii
May 8 »I
' ——< d;
JuftKeceived, l\
From Batavia(viaProvidence)' ct
a few Boxes of Spices, confiding of 1 «<
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mice lo
For f«lc by P'
IVILLIKGS& FRANCIS,
Penn-ftreet. P
May 30 4tf
Davis's Law Book Store, tl
No. 319, High-Street. p
GEORGE DAVIS, -
BEING busied for fom« time )-aft in prepara
tions for removing into his profcnt house, has
been uftder thcneceffityof poSponinguntil this dajr
gentlemen ofthe Bar generally thro'
the United States, that his spring importation of n
law books is now arranged and. ready for iale, ou
terms that hi* trusts will entii le him to the like pre- _
freence he has experienced for fcveral years, past.
Catalogues, combining the most varied collcc
tion ever imported i/ito this country, are printed
and wrll be-delivered on application.
June 17. J
City Commijfio Tiers' Office, 1
yunei2, inr. ' a
IN pursuance of an yrdinaftce from the fel»i£l
and common councils, pafled'the jid day of v
May lafl, appointing the city cammiOioncrs,
and prescribing their duties, feiflion 9th,
NOTICK IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into live diftri<fls,
«ach to be uodtr the fuperintendance of one of
tbe city commifiioners, u hois to be individually
relponfible for the cleanlineft of the and
are as follow.
Driftritfl No. t» From the south fide of Ce- (
dar-ftriet, to thenonh fide, of Spruce-street, un
de rthe fuperiotendence of Nathan Boys.
i. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
the north fide oi Walnut-street, under the fuper
intendertce of Hugh Roberts.
3. From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide of Righ-ftreet, under the superintendence ot
Joseph Claypoole.
From the north fide of High-street, to the
north fidr of Mulberry street, under the super
intendence ef William Moulder.
5. From tbe nortb fide of Mulberry-flreet to
the north fide of Vme-flreet, under ike super- 1
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaningof to be in common.
£jT A fiated meeting ps tilt city commifiion
«r3 is held.at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at s o'clock
July f4» eoim
Stands for Draymen, Isfc.
Jn purjvanft of an Ordinance from the Selefl and
Common Council:,bearing date the nd day of
April, 1797, providing for tbe appointme.M of
City Comm'\jJioneri, tSc. Sell, tbe lstb.
THE following places are fixed upon by the
said City Commifiioners for Stands fin-
Draymen and their Horses.
In V'me-flreet, eastward of Front-street, on
both fides. .
Saflafras, High,Chefnut and Waliiut-fttreets,
eallu ard ot Front-street, on the no.-th fide only,
Mulberry-street, f<*uth fide from Front to
'
Front-ftre*, east fide from Vine-itreet to
Elfrith's alley.
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Watcr-ftreet, weft fide from the north end of
Stumper's or Moore's ftdres to Pine-street.
Penn-llreet from Pine to CeJar-ftreet, weft
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South streets, east of Fropt
street, south I'de. '
Dock-street, between Walnut-street and the
flag stone crossings, east fide, opposite George
Orklev's.
Second-ftrert, between SalTafras and Vine
ftrcts weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet,' east fide fi-om Chefmit to MuK
from 'third to Fourth-flreet,
e " No dray or horse to stand within ten feet of
A "ITTNDS FOR HACKNEY COACHES.
Pitis-flreet, north fide frpm Fourth to Fifth
Fitth-ftrset, between Chefnut and Walnut
'Braneh-ftfeet, north fide, betw«en Third and
pourth ftfeets. '
July 14. rnw&f:m
A Literary Treat.
To,? pullijhed, handfnmsly printed on writing ,
paper, price I dollar,
A new edition of that popular anl entertaining
work, entitled '
" pHE FORESTERS, an Am orient) Tale ; being l«
l a feijuel to the history of John Bull, the Clo
thief—-In aftnesof letters to a friend, with the ad- fa
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political ft'
i ranfaiSions in America.
'l'he following extras >rom the Clavis Allagorica, th
ihews the principal ehara&ers that are introduced: W
John Bui!,the Kingdom of I ngland n "
His Mother, tlicCfcurch o! fcnjlar.d g e
His Wife, the Vai-liament ' til
His Sifter Peg, the Chitichof Scotland th
His Brothfcr Fivwick. Ireland w
Lewi*,'the K'ngdom of France ft'
His Mtftrefs, the Old Cqnflitution .
His «sw Wife, the National Rcprefentatiot* '
Lord Strut,, the &irigdom of Spain
Nicholas Frop, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the Frcnth Republic
The Pwrofters, the United States of A merit J S<
Robert Lumber, New-Hampihire tei
John Codline, MaiTachufetts m:
Humphrey Plowshare, ConneAicut M
Roger Carrier, Rhode Iflatid 1 Sh
Peter Bull Frog, New-York tei
Julius Cajlar, New-J_erfcy v
William Broadbrim, Penufylvaiua
Caflimar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
His Grandson, George Walhingtoa
Peter Pitch, K *th Carolina-
Charleo Indigo, ioutk Carolina
George 'fruity, Georgia
F.thaa Greenwood, Vermont
Hui.ffr Longknife. Ksntuclajr
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves *
Rats, Speculators
Mother Carey's JaccViis
jJjF This popular and entertainingfatirical histo
ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel
knap. It hasagrtat fliure 'of originality and a
bonnds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and chs»ra&erifc6 thofa
late political tracfaelions whith hav* caused Co
much useafinejCt in America.
Sold fey H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
South Second Stfcet, and No. 50, ftfarke' Sleet.
Junea6. §
LAW BOOKS, r
Latest Lontjon and Dttbh'n Editions. ~
H. & P. RICE, Book/el leys,
No. t<, South Second, and No. 50, Market street, _
HAVE just received by the hte arrivais Ironi
London and Dublin, their spring importa
tion, confiding of a variety of the Utt.lt and mo!\
approved Law Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, formsthe aioft extenlive collection ev- f ,.
er offered for file in thi» countty. They thci efore j
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their |
connedicnsin Dublin, they are enabled »o I'elllrifh j
editions \u they have hitherto don<s at the very ,
*lowell prices. The following are amopg the late'.t 1
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chahfery, 1 v«..«. (
Psake's Cafe* at Nifl Prius ; Ridge Way's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwicka ; Floyer's Probers
Pra&ice in the Ecclesiastical Courts ; Barton's
Trcatif* on a 9uit in Equity ; Tidd's Practice of
the 6ourt of King's Bench in Personal Anions, 1 ~
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
o«i Ufei; modern Reports, 1 a vols. London edi- ,
tion.
H. and P. Rici expeik «• receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, the id part of Gil- '
bert's Law of Evidence by-Loft, and a number of ,
new publication*.
June 16. j
The 1-ftftory of Pennsylvania, c
iW ROBERT PROUD, 1
IS now in the prefi, and will-be pul>li(hed,
with convenient expedition, by Zicha- j
huh Poulson, jun. No. 30, Chefnut-ftrcet, (
Philadelphia, where-fubferiptions will continue
to he received, ami at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the'printed until tho
work is ready for the fubfcribcra.
July 18. uwtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHNMIL.LE R, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Chefnat-Street,
Hive for Si\e
FIFTY' TRUNKS Beatly aflbrtcd, very low on
(host credit.
March 6. f
Richard and James Potter
HAVF. removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftrcet.
/tuguft 2. w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijirurgh Ccrlijie,
Smppenjburgand Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requcfted to take notice, that
the partnership which has for some time sub
sisted betwe»» Mathias Slough erf Lancaster, and
. William Geer, is now dissolved: but, not as M.
. SlOugh infinuatestO the public without }u(l cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je£l from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
- December last. a recital of which i* not bow deem
ed necsffary. Any gentleman who wishes to be ,
more circumflantiajly iuformfcd of the merits of
this bulineft, by applying' to W. Geer may have
I thoperofal of M..Slough's letter, and thtn cVn be
f at full liberty to determine wheiher or not \V.
Geer is not perfeilly jstlifiabie in attaching
e felf to any other perl'on in the profectitjon of ,the
T Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place,
n Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleaied to confer on the firft effort iu
), this bu&nefs, William Geer, in conjunction with
r. Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
o to-profecute and c.nrry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a Zeal to oblige ihe pub
-0 lie can poflibly exert.
The above cqpipany, who are ampljr provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
d f thof« wno wish to patroniie and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
n George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Marlut Street, Philadelphia, on 6very Monday
and Friday, to ptoceed to Lancaster, Harrilturg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The face as hitherto
eftablilhed. » "
For the further accommodation ol public,
,c a Stage will start every Wednesday from tht boufc
;« of Samuel Elder, m Harrifburg, arrive « Sun
bury in Northiimberland county, every Thursday,
and return from theuce and arrive at Hatriiburg
every Saturday, so that plungers destined: tor
:K Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon
t, dJIS ' WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 17, 1797'
»f N. IS. This Line ef Stages ftarta from th®
houl'e of William Ferr»e, in Lancaster,. on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clcvtt, pro
h ceeding to the westward; and from the hoSfe of
Mr. Samuel Eldet in Harrifburg every Wednof
it day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Fa
trick Cochran's in Shippcnfburg, and returns
(J fiem thence on every Thurfr'ay : performing the
fame routine daily ai in ill Wur from Philadel
phia. .n™ 1
TWE S v O LD,
And pofc/iion given immediately, A:
ALAKttf two story brick House, hMidiomdy
situated in Princeton. There are four rcoms
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings ,(1 feet in
length, and apiazzaof 57 feet. I here ie a pump
in the yard, an excellent kitchen garden, at the
farther eni of which are a carriage iionfe.snd two
ftahles, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with I
llallaSn the t-.vo stables for a? hori'es. The heal
thitiefs and pleasantness ct its situation, and the L;
number of genteel and agreeable families in and
nttar the town, reader it a defn'ible rctreeat for a
gentleman from the city. 'I he conimodioufnefs of
the houfe k its central position, and the largeness of 0 |
the flables.mjike itjevcry wayfuitableforataVein.for u
which it has always been cor.fidcrd as a capital p,
ltaad. Itinulre-ou the premises, of „■
IS4 AC SNOWDEK I
, N O T I CI i:
IF Thet>y o*Hara, who some years fmoelcept m
Scho®l at the Nine Bridges, Queen's County, Eaf-
tern Shore, Maryland, be living, he is hereby re- w
minded to call 011, or write to, the Rev. Ambrose 0 j
Marlhal, near Warwick, Cecil County, Eastern
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will receive in- w
terefting iatormation. c.
Airr.ijl 4. mw&f4w
City oi" VValhington.
SCHEME (
Of the Lattery, No. 11, t :
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwellinj-houfe ao,coo'dollars,
St calh 30,000, arc 50,000
1 ditto 15,000 8c ca'i 35,000 40,00®
j ditto 15,000 & KaCi 15,000 30,000 „
1 ditto 10,000 5c calh 10,000 10,000 „
1 ditto 5,00e & c*fa 5,000 10,000 „
1 ditto 5,000 & rafti 5,»0<» io,iKio tt
1 Aft prize of ro.ooo «
1 do. 5,000 eieh.ire • 10,000
10 <io. r.ooo - » 10,00 c t
ta do. 500 - - 10,000 a
00 dp. 100 - - 10,000 n
j.i. da, 50 * 1 - xo,ooo e
400 do. a 5 - * 10,000 t:
I,coo do. »o * 10,000
I5,oo»- do. 10 r Ise ( 000
iiianka.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. 13. Tofs»our thofc who Clay take 'a quan- c
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be j f
the l drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last , r
but OKI : i j
And approved notes, securing payesertt in either t
I monc) or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received loi anynumbcr not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottary will afford an elegant fpeclmen ef ,
eheprivare buildings to be eftSed in the City of .
Walhington—Two beiutlful defigos are already
feleded for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawi Jgsit isprcpofed to ereft
twocentreand f ourcorner buildings,as fooßaspof
fible after this lottery isfold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate; adventursrs, in
the manner described in the fchemc for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett dedu«Slion of five-p*r cent, will
be made to defray the necelfary eipenfes of prim
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the Natipnal Omverfity, to
be erected within the city of Walhingtoo.
Thc jeaJfecuritieagiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the Prefideijt and two
sri of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
' SAMUEL BLODGF.T.
Tieketsmay be had at the Bank otColsm
-1*43 ; of Jahvrs Weft flt Co. Baltimore ; of Peter
Gilman, Bolton : of John H»pkim, Richmond ;
["•and of Richard Wslif, Cooper's Ferry.
, • mwf
From the Otfego Herald. v
CAUTION.
WHEREAS a combiaation of men in this
county hive undertaken to enrich thsm
felves,by fabricating titles to lunury valuable trails
of land, the property of gentlemen living in New
Yotk, Philadelphia, London and Paris, for which
traits of hnd large films of money have been paid
, to (hose fraudulent men, by innocent purthafers
It is therefore just that public information Ihotild
fce given, to the end, that the injured may fcekre
- dress while the men have property, and are to be
found. Those who have been discovered are Tru
man Harrifon, Jofcph Witcomh, said now to re
side in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and
several others who go under fictitious names. It is
_ supposed that the lands offered fcr file on those fa
bricated titles, are at lea!t worth fifty thoufilnd
> dollars. Such as we have a&tial knowledge of are
as follows : Lots No. 11 and 12, Otfego patent,
' thcufar.dacres eafh, theaitual property of William
Delhvyn, now cf London ; lots No. 58 and 64.
fame p&tcilt, thrufand acres each, the property of
al Mr. Chaumo.it, notv of Paris, and lames Averill
and others, ot this State. There is ibme prounds
to suppose that the lands of Richard Welis ai:d
<• Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their
: ! management.—The Printers will do well to give
thi«a place in their papers, as well to caution the
"h public against purchafir.g those iands, as also to de
-1- prive those men in future from mipofiug on indivi
'ei duals which their educrtiou and kddreis have en
of abled them to do heretofore. Witcomb has been
re a Ihopkeeper of. feme note iu this country,
be The following alhdavits will fct in a clear point
V• of view the wickudnefs of thofe'lll n,which when
nJ the public have pc.-ufeJ, will induce them 'o ex
he cufe the interference cf Wm. COOPER,
if- Otfego, July ißth, 17«7-
I Thomas Kelly, of the County of Otfego, hav
he ing been led into an error, by John Witcomb and
iu Truman Harrifon, of the fame County, to sign a
th deed to them, for lot No. 58,0: l"ego patent, which
ed was the property of Willi am T. Franklin now Mr.
it- Chamont's and o-hers ;md further the said Joseph
h- and Tiuman did persuade me to do this against my
inclination, which made cut on th • icth dry
ed of November- 1793, or set buck two years fe as
to to bring time ; aitd further the name of
m Pardon Starks to that deed was a liAitioiis nam,;,
he there being uo such pcrlon there. TothislmaV;
"t voluntary oath. THOMAS KELLY,
fe, 19th July, 1797-
ay On the :9th July, 1797, came personally before
rg, me, Thomas Kelly, the fubferibcr to theabove af
rto fidavit, a«d made foltma oath tl'.at it contains noth
ing tut th'' truth,
lie, |XIHU V'HINNF.Y, Jufticc of the Peace,
life On the 13th Ju!y, 1797, came before me Jacob
Kibby, a person by me \yell kuown and worthy of
ay, good credit, who on his fotemn oath did fay, that
Irg t« oof the parties d«d make ap
!or plication'to him this deponent, fomc time in the
>n- wmttr of 1796, to make them a deed for two thou
sand arr«s of land in the Otego patent, and pro
mised this deponent a lhare of the profits, on the
sale of said lands, for his fe doirx,;; and that they
h« madeapplicationfcveral times for the fame purpo e,
ry which fervicus this deponent as olten rciufed, de
•o- daring to them that he had no right to lauds, and
of coulddo no such thing ; which daring attempt on
ef- thisdspanenf's integrity he had related a-rong his
'a- friends several times, previous to making this ath
•ris davit. JACOB KIB3EY.
he Sworn before me,
el- ELIHU FHINNEY, Jultice of the Peace.
Aug. y I4W4W.
This Day Published, '
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Cliefnut ftreats,
Price 3-Bthi of a IDailfr, Ex
Observations on certain Documents
Contained i* No. V and VI of \
" The History of the linked States for gu
the year 1796," Ai
In which the cm a rob ov speculation a^ainll
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, a
Late Secretary of the Treasury, is FULLY
REFUTE O.
WRITTEN BT MI MSB IV,
This publication prefeifts a conciie statement
of the bufe means pruwiifcd by the Jacobins ot" the
United State* to asperse jthe charader* of those
who arc confuiti ed as hostile %:> their dilor
ganizing fchcmcs. It also contains the cor
rcfpontlence between Mr. Hamilton and McilVs.
Monroe, Muhlfcn : n*rgh and Venab r e, on the fub
je<sfc of the documents aiorefaid, an 4 a f< ries of 'lcc
ters from James Reynolds acd-his wile to Mis Ha
milton, proving beyond the polfibtlity of'a doubt,
that the conned ion between him -and Reynolds,
was the reiuit of a daring eonfpiraay on the part
of the latter and hi? associates to extort money.
A discount of one third from ihe retail price
will be made in fayor ot wholefaie purc'nafers, tor
cash. Orders to be addreJled to Mr Yowng.
No. 188.
D\flri3 of Pennsylvania, to <wit :
' •> \ K E " REMEMBERED, that on the
C L - '' JD twcTAy sixth day of July, in the twen
ty fecpnd year cf the independence of the United
States of America, Jon* Fenmo, of tj:e said dif
tridt'.hath deposited in this office the title ofabpok,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the 1
words following, to wit|
'• Observations on certain documents contained -1
"in No. V. and Vl.of "The History of the Unit- J
" ed Statesfor theyear 1796," in v hich the charge a
of speculation, again'.t Alexander Hamilton, late c
" Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted— f
" Written by himfalf." r
In conformity to'he a<st of the Congrcfs of the v
Ucited States, entituled, " All aft for the entonr- t
agement of learning, by fccuring the copies of c
maps, charts and books to the authors and prdpri- ]
etors of such copies, during th» times therein men- i
tioned." t
SAMIJEL CALDWELL,
Clerk tf the DifiriS of Peiwfyhnnhi. i
July jg. _____ ■ w 4 vr_ 1
The Inhabitants of the Diltritt )
of Southwark,
ARK informed that aCoachce is provided, to b» '
. kept at the Cenftables' ofike, the north clfi
earner of Front and Almond streets, where the '
I friend# of rhofe flck pcrfons who desire to be r--
j moved to the City Hoff ital, arc requeftcd to make
application—Also, a Heaife will be kept in readi
nefa for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
N. B.—The Poor, who wilh to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may be formfeed with orders
by applying as above. 39
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY asd BROKER'S OFFIGE
No. £4 south Second-Ateet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commmced drawing the 19th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
-1 tion ai the drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
' 1 four thousand dollars each, on the last day ot
drawing.
Check Books lept for examination and register
ing, in the Canal, No.a, City of Walhingfoii, No.
%, and Paterfon Lottorits.
Also, tickets forfalein the Schuylkill bridge and
Perk omen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the course of the famnier.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bill*, Notes, Lands, Sic-Sec. tranfaded with the
utmofl a;tention.
June 2 tni*.'f
Erlkine's View of the War.
J 1
JUST PUBLISHED,
. By ROBERT CAMPBF.Li & Co.
No 40 South Second street,
, [Price 31 Otnt»T
r A View of the Causes ana Confequen
| ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskim.
I May 15 . $■
■ ~S TATE TRIALS.
Sold b W. Yoonc, Bookseller, No. s*, South 3t
" - cond-ftrect,
, The PenHfylvainia State Trials,
. /""lONtaining the impeachment, trial,and acquit
tj al of Judgeof thpeCourt of
e [ admiralty, and John Nkholfon, Comptroller CJen
eraS—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards,,3
n dollars.
W. Yookg has for sale, a general afiortmentof
if Books. AKo, Stationary, retail and by the pock-
II ege, well aflorted, and entitled to the drawback if
Is axpwted. July 1 —*
d For Sale,
ir '
>e That rcelt inown place, called if akd£9rih's
ie e * R K Y,
Nefliaminy creek, 18 miles from Piillt
i- latlelphia, on the. New York port rfoad,
containing 74 acrejtand 94 perches. Upon the
n preiiiifckpre a larg<f two (lory stone houj'e occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one Itory stone kit
-11 chen, a Urge frame ftabie with a gor.d threshing
n floor, and I'otne out buildiHgi—alio a well of
good xvater, and an exceil< nt ice House. On
this 'place is a molt elegant situation fora gentle
man's feat,commanding a view of the Nefham
'j inytoitsjunilionwiihtheDelawase, and thence
acrol's to the Jersey (hore. ft has tke privilege
of one half the toll rece'ived froui the.bridge.
r For terms apply to the SoWcriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
i V Vav 14-
j COLUMBIA HOJSi;
of Boarding School for young Ladies.
'• r lis - GUOOMBIUDGE with much pleaf
jjJ. are and relpedl, returns her lincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal eacourageroest
(he has received during font- years retidenee la
rc Philadelphia ; and affiires lier friends antl the
lf - public, fa far from intending to decline her
h * school, file has made-a superior arrangement for
ihe more convenient accommodation of her
fcbolarsv—Every braiwVi tf ul'eful and polite
education is particularly atteiuwd to t>y Mrs.
ot Groombridge and maftars excelling in their
* lt refpeiftive pfofrflions.
, F " Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June 9th, 1797. Jiinftl
The fttu»t;<M> is perfeftly healthy ; and made
; ie more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
e y of ground adjoining the houie.
'' Jujt Published,
,j And to Vhad cf Messrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfcllers m
-is citv.price one dollar, nvmty-fiveceiiits.m boards,
si- New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. ".
Jur.c jo-. t
Ro/s Id Simjon,
HAVE SVLE
f HogGieads,
Excellent Coffee in < Tierce;, and
C Parrels. 1
A (mall parcel of nice cocoa in haps
few puncheons jatnaica' fpirlts, fourth proof
Superior Teneriffee wine, old and in Madeira pipe*
Au invoice of jewellery and hosiery to be fold by *-
the package
A few hampers ol bcftEn o lifh cheese.
Tuly dtf.
The Subscriber has for Sale,
A large afiorrment ©f India Muslins,
coarse and fine
India Calicoes
Sooty Romalls
B'ue Cloths and Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blus red and Gifli Handkerchief#
An invoice ef Irish Linens and Sheeting®, well
affortrd
A box of Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
Two boxes of fine Splcei, cotaiaing Nutmeg
.Mace and Cloves
Black Pepper of firft quality
East India Gieger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wine
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brim (lane
I Mordecai Lewis.
Attpufl ti. 3«wim
Hi gains' Specific
rop. TIIB
PREVENTION AND CURE OF THE
YELLOW FEVER.
EVER since this dlfeafe mode fi»ch rava<*« in this
i city and New-York, the Author ha* turned hi#
attention to fts causes r.nd cure.—The result of hit
enquiries has convinced him that the reason why so
few persons recover from its attacks, are from its
not beinp well underftopd, and- the consequent
wronsj method taken to cure it. He* is perfuacfed
that tneexceflive hlecdiy:nr. and reatment
of the Faculty is highly and that the on
ly rational mode of treatment is by rheufe of proper
acids. Convinced ps this he offers his Sfigefyjc as a
certain remedy, if ufei according to the dire&i^r.s.
To be had in botrle.% at oik dollar each, of the
inventor Geo. Higgins. Cherry street, two door? a
bove Ninth street, (late of JacJtfon and
• Co*s Medicine Warehouse, London); by y.Lc*
blanCy No. 26; W. Griffith. No. 177, r t. Pearce, No*
21, South Third T. Stiff, No. 5 c,New street,
t \ near Vine (lre«t,and7* Ga/«,No. 36,.Race I!-Cet.
Aug. 25. n tuths
: COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
■ Ju(Vreceived, by Wm. Griffiths,No, 177, South
Sacond-ftreet, a'frclh fdpplyqf,
Genuine Baifam of Honey,
j \ Medicine invented Iry tht/ late Sir John HiH
JTx. (Who knowledge as a Botanist procured liim
- the appellation of the Linnaeus of Briu n) and is
•onfidered in England b- a urtain cure for the above
Complaints; it it also of lingular efficacy in the
y Hopping Cough,
It may also be had retail As W. A.
t> 61, South Seeond-ftfeet, and T. Srirr, 55, h'ew
l ftr«et, in bottles at 75 cents each.
Wm. (jE'.rriTHs havipg qbferved the happy efc-'
- fc<sl of the medicine, (feverkl cases of cures hay*'
if ing come within his ojvn knowledge) and the great
t demand "for it has induced him to order a large
supply, a part of whith he has just received.
■- -Avgujl 3. lawqw
30 Dollars" Reward.
u TJ AN away on Saturday last, two indented Sef-
AV vants, Oifford Dally, a mulatto boy :;boutj7
•' years of age, a slim light built adive fellow, can
e read and write,five feet seven or eight inchas high,
has a heavy countenance t had on a faftian coatee
_ and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine lhc.es &c.
Allan Hellons, a black man. afrout 14 j. I*-. of
age, five fact fvven or eight Snchis hif;h,a »h;?i set
jclu.tilif built f»l!ew, particularly abouttlja breech;
hail on a sailor's blue jack.t lined with fwanikir,
dark striped vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
hat, coarse shoe% &c.; each of them hid several
ftiirtsand several other eloathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid his runaways, or 15 dol
lars for each, and reasonable charges, ob delivering
them at No. 54, North Third-street.
file b : ack fellow is ahont a year from Lcwis
Town, in the County of Sussex, state of Dela
_ ware, and has taken the boy with him.
mtu&fnw
=- '~~f7be SrQLD or RENTED,
A LARGE 3 Story Brick Bouse, on the
South fide of Filbert street, between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
0' veyor General's Office.
The Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet deep,
3 the lot no feet deep, with the privilege of a nine
o |. feet \\-ide Alley extending the whoie length of
k the lot, to a thirty feet' wide Court for Carriages
jf to turn in. The Houle is nbt f'aftered, and
may be turned either into one, or two dwelling
- Houses. It is suitable for a larye Manufactory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
's pcfleflion will be given, ,
Apply to No. in, Cliefnut-Slreet.
a . Antr. 11. cm! 41.
Mufual Injlrurrxnt Manufadory,
u- N'o. 167, Arch-Strect.
t- IT ARPER.harpfichord.gr^nd,porta! le grand,
il fid;-l'oard, pier table and fijuare piai o toriS
o *f mak. r ironj l.opdon, rotyrns thanks to bis friends
) n and the public, l'ct their lii-.ViSI cncou'agemcut,
e . and hopes tjiat by his alliduity and ati*,uii< nto r»-
n _ cry branch of his bu'mfs, ton crit a
of their favors. Piano f' rtts made on th? ctwefl
and mod approved plans, wi*h patejS*
b " fwcll,>nd rrenc!i harp flop, which hs£sttei».
himfelf will ue fou)id eti tn:l ly iuxrt'.iidiccii
judges, to be equal if Hot fupojorto ncyjtapirtw
■d, aiid twenty per cc::f cheaper. A. y inllnt
m.-nt purchaicd Ji him, if set appro of ill
twelve m mtlis, heSvi'l exchange.
N. 3. AUkindscf JV'iiii: 1 irilrui;:e:.ts mad.-,
um d, and repa iei> v-ith the r;-cy,
*f- d;fps«ch, and on the molt reafo r., c
ic- ready money only.
at Secondhand Piano Fc/tej taken in f'-liasv ,
in May v-. Sc :-
er ,Forty Dollars .Reward.
or tpj AN away l'ruvi} tTie fiibfcriber. 011 the fee!
ler IV on'd diy of this inlt. July, a MuUtto Man,
itc Horned WM'Sowzer, about forty years of age,
rs- five feet seven or eight high, rather
e»r chunky made ; had 011 when he went away, a.
drab colored cloth coat, ltriped purple txowffir*
and jac;kt;t. It U probable he will change hi*
cloathes, as be took a number with him. The.
de fan! fellow formerly belonged po Mr- Charles
lot Blake th'S js'ace , and his expeifled he ha*
mads towards Jones's Neck, in the Delaware
State.r— Any perfen apprehending the feid fel
low, and securing him so that 1 can get him a
-s*> I t'.ain, fhill receive the above reward if taken
cut oi tbe county, and Twenty Dollars if in
J ®' the coimsy, and all reafonabie charges if bro't
IC Uotns. •
JESSE REED,
Q;i«n'Ann'« County, Maryland.
July 3. wjt