ot ti)t ® and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1504.]
iFor SAVANNAH,
sj§||w Swift Packet,
lying at Wilcock's wharf;
*S f« isssssfjAt
'!>= " P '" V ' ' ?i, ' y "
N. "& j. Fmzicr,
i v , . Ffcnt-itttet.
V-hn have for We, by thefad fbip,
rime Rice in whole and half tierces.
j For Hamburgh,
L J THE SHIP
ENNSYLVANIAy
I w "-iMMSOWj Matter,
fli Ifco at VViJlinjr's wharf—(he is now ready to
oftJ*£ ,n ' an^ wi " failin 10dR y s - Forterm3
tre«htor fuiTagc, apply to
Gurney & Smith.
J une »3. j J
For Sale,
The fine and remarkably fait
Ikjnßkir Virginia and Philadelphia
Lurthen about 100 tons. For terms apply to
Rofs y Simfon.
J- Un f l?l _____ dtf
The Shareholders
Of the Pennsylvania Population Company,
c 'V-' re l ue § e d to meet at Company's Of
fice, No. ss< North Fourth Street) on Saturday
the 15th mil. at tx o'clock.
By erder of the Boards
SOLOMON MAItACHE, Sec'rv.
-J 11 '? '• _ 4 16t.
Bank of North America.
July 1, 1797.
At a meeting of the Djretfors this da?, a di-
I vvdend of Six PfuCtNT. was declared for the
last half year, whichw ill bn paid to the Stock
holder or their representatives, at any time af
ter the 10th inft.
daw.
A Coachee and Chair,
For hire, or sale, without horfes—theharnefs
compleat.
Enquire at No. 203, Arch Street.
J u, y '• it.
-—' r— _____________
George Dobfon,
No. 25 South Third-Street,
HAS imported per (hips Willium Penn, Star,
and DiaAa, from London,
5-4 Supef London Chintz, elegant patterns,
Ginghams, Muflinetts and Dimities.
I'afhionable Waiftcoating, neweftpatterns.
Ribbands well assorted, in small trunks,.
4-4 J-4 and 6-4 India and British Book-muf
lias.
nnarhf and Caflirr.rrs.
lh» whole to be disposed of cheap for. Calh
I or approved Notes of a fliort date.
June 14, *97. d. tf.
L For Sale,
mh cargo of the brig Enterprise, Captain
Morton's wharf,
CONSITING QF
514 hhds. of Claret ") 2 ,•
317 cases of ditto I -o *2
»oo cafe* of Sweet Oil ~
no pipes London proof | S g
10 pipes of Hollandptoof3 " °J W-a
Apply to
Wharton £3° Lewis,
No. lij, South Front St.
Said Brig,
WILL take a FREIGHT for
the Weft-Indies or Europe, fails
burthen about fifteen hun
(l red barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be r&dy to receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply as above-
May 24 f
Health-Office, Philadelphia, "Jib June, 1797. (
THE beard,/ Health offer to rem out the NEW '
CIT Y HOSPITAL, usually called The IVig
,%vam.
It maybe Occupied as a Tavern, for which there
arc excellent accommodations. Ihe person taking J
it mult he capable and willing to aft in the capaci
ty of a Steward; ia cafe a ccntageous disease in '
the city, fliould at any time render it ntcefljry to c
make ufc of the premises as a Hospital. It cannot r
therefore be let for any limited tune—and the red '
painted frame building is to be reserved. Proptfalt u®
in writing will be received at this office until the 1
4th of July, dating what rent will he allowed un- 11
der the foregoing circumflances. None need apply i;
without being able to produce the brft recommend-
ations. JOHN MILLER, Jm. v
jUHe 27 s7t] Chairman of the Bt»ard of Health. i;
An afiortment of RufGa Cordage, ''
AMONG3I" which are three cables, one ol 12,
one of 10 1-4, and the other 7 1-2 inches, j
;nd each 120 fathoms long
Boston Sail Duck, No's. 1,2, 3. and 4
Bourbon Cotton, of a very fup«rior quality
Ditto Coffee in bags
If!,- of France Indigo 1
A few bales well assorted India Muslins
Spermaceti Oil L
Ditto Candles
Softon Beef, prime and mess C J
Codfi& in hogihtads and tieicej 15
Ditto in quintals P
Mackure! in Karrtls o
Herrings in ditto ri
4th proof Brandy, and N F
A few kegs of L&rd ta
ALSO, Si
7uft landing fronr on board thi Adivc, from Ham- «
burgh,
joby 12, 8 ty TO, anil 9 by 12 German Win
dow Glais, and a few beies alTorteJ Dutch Giafs .
Ware, i«r f.ile by
Jofepb Anthony Co. so
June 2? l"t d;
1? or Sale, "f
r 'T'H?. time of a Mulatto Man, who,'its about 6 31
X le.'.rs to I'otvc, lindcrCauds the care ef Hcrl
es, and is a good waiter.
'r.ijuir: of she Printer. fu
June iC, ; iw t
.P HI.L A DEL PHI A : WEDNESDAY EVENING, JULT 5, 1797.
Bcji Eng/ijh Crown Window G'aft.
A well aflbrteo Invoice of the bell Crown
Window Glais, of the following iizes:
•f; 10 by 8 1
c- II ly 9
r- i» by 10
to 14 4 10 2,2 BOXES.
16 by 12
17 by vl4
Lifcewifr frelh Kice, high proof Brandy, best
mels Beef, in half barrels.
, Sail Cloth, No. i. to 8.
Sherry Wine.
A few hundred weight of excellent Durch Piilol
and Rifle Gun Powder—and,
1 hirty Boxes -Chocolate.
For Sale by,
Samuel Bred, Jim.
No. 89, Sonth Thlrd-fireet.
J"» e »• eoiot.
is ~ NOTICE.
'"p'HE fubferiber having sent by the ship Nancy,
L Capt. Perry, the following certificates of the
United States bank IJock, to wit :
nj N °' 2^ ,0c -5» *6,014, inrliifive, for three
lhares each—and the said veSTfll havinjj been cap
tured on her intended voyage to England, which
ft will moll probably rccafion the lof# of the said
certificates, gives this public totice,
'a shall apply at the proper offices for a r< •
newal of them, and that means have been taken
to prevent any improper tractfer.
Henry Philips,
> - t No. IF2,South Front-ftrc«t.
June 1. h 3a w6 w
Received by the Indollan,
From Madras,
A SMALL invwee confining or the follo*ine
-£*■ Conit Goods, viz.
Blue Cloth#
Long Cloth», 14 punjums
Do. do. firie
Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and
Book Muslins
WILLING Cs" FRANCIS.
; March 27. , JW
A Quantity of" Brandv,
FIRST & 2d proof,
Gin, of 4th preof, in pip»»
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in lihds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumbler*, in pints and half-pints
1 Window Glals, in boxes, of different lizes
Hazlenuts, inft. ks
Whiting I
Copperas ( . I
White Lead' r m " hd '
& Spaaifb Brown )
For Sale by
PETER BLIGHT. I
January 4 - ,
Rofs & Simfon,
Ha/ve for Sale, J
4 tfcUAMTJTV OF PRIME
«St. Domingo Cotton, '
Superior Old Lisbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market '
TenerifFe Wine, !
In Madeira Calks '
A few Quarter Chests btft e
Freffi Hyson and ) ._
Hyson Skin J rtAS 1
Mufcovad» Sugars in Hogsheads, and c
' Coffee in Tierces j.
7. (J t f
Erfkine's View of the War.
li
JUST PUBLISHED, d
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co. a
No 40 Souih Second flreet, q
[Price 31 CentaJ
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France. fl
By the Honorable Thomas Erskin's.
Ma ylJ J
GABRIEL DECOMBAZ, «
BOOKSEU.tR i> STATIONER, ! r
Begj leave to inform the public that hs has re. J"
moved his Shop to So. 32, South Third flreet, .
AND HAS JUST PUBLISHED, ' h
(Neatly bound and lettered, price 2 dols. 25 cti.)
'1 he Adventures of Telemachus.
French ind Englilh, 2 vols. umo.
AMONG the books Wfiich daily fall into the
hands of the youth of both fcxes, none
have a higher claim to their attentionthan Tele- th
machus. I'he meft interesting lessons are here he
conveyed in the vehicle of an intrrefting Poem. ,e
replete with the fincft touches of the true pa- t0
the tic, and embclffhed with all the graces of a ° f
t beautiful flyle. The fatal effefls of indulging bI
the paflions are exemplified in the most linking
manner ; and the happiuefs attending inno
cence and virtue painted in the live!ieft colours. ~
Whatever can incite to virtue or deter from
vice ; whatever can enlighten the ur.derftand- J
ing, charm the imagination, and improve the <_v
heart, is to be found in this interesting work.
THE NAVAL GAZETTEER;
Being a complete Geographical Dictionary,
containing a full and accurate account, alpha
betically arranged, of all 'the countries and ifl
aiids in fbe known world ; showing their lati- La
ude, foundings, and itations for anchorage ; cal
with a particular description of the feveralßjvs,
Capes, Channels, Coves, Creeks, Currents,
Gulfs, Harbours, Havens, Lakes, Oceans, Ra
ces, Uivtrs, Roads, Rocks, Sands, Shoals,
Sounds, Straits, Tides, Variation of the Com
pass &c. Together with a particular relation T
of the shape and appearance at-fea, of the fev«- i
ral Headlands, Ifthmufea, Peninsulas, Points, ma
Fromontoriee, and whatever is of use or impor- an<
tance to the Master, tilot, Commander, or an.
Seaman of any fbip or veflcl, in navigcting the er)
watery clement. of
an<
Also Comprehending
Ample Dire£Hons for lailing into or out of the :
different Ports, Strait*, and Harboui> of the t< {
four quarters of the world ; and for avoiding m „'
dangers on the various and extended coafls ; in tw
which more than twelvethoUfand diftinif names
of places, arc treated of and explained. With j
a correft set of Charts, 1 vols. Bvo. price 6 dols. tU n
fly the Kev. JOHN MALHAM, d,!,
£3" Tiiis.has been pronounced the most use- rea
fill and the cheapen bo; k publilhed :r. America. J
dtf. 1
By John Fenno,
f - _ she Com mi Hi oners
wn T< "Zfty'hg into tffeil the VSicbt of the
1 j if' JB,it '' cl " nai fee navigation, a:n-
St««irf It!"-f" 3rlU "" k andtheUnited
tl?e roth da/ of November,
1794, having this day tou/titutr i their Hoard,
purtuant a«d agreeably to the hid treaty, do here
iy giv« nouce that ,ihsy .»r e res if to proceed to
buftnt'tfi a ewdll.gly ; . :, t | ;|„ y .~, . u !a ;. n<
:ell J"."' tb f' u 'd article (which f«, U .>< U fame de
lcrves thc ca f f , thereoy provided for, is hereunto
be 'odged with iheir jicc'rftary with
lol "Pfr father deiire that all fuel) claims may not
only state in.what manner the feverai cases come
within the description of the said pnide, but also
fpecial.y let forth ihe nature of the evidence by
whicn the claimant* refpedtively undertake tofub-.
ftantiate the fame.
•< 1171. ff° m the said article,
_•< i * erca> ' £ " alledged by divers British mer
.. j u." 6 ' aUd
4! £J t0 a ,,f° nf 'o' r ablo amount, which were bona
y> . C( before the peace, still remain
lie U r, Wlng . t ; t!>era b 7 Citizens or inhabitants of the
United .States; and that by the operation of va
ee nous lawful impediments, since the peace, not
P- <, j, f recovel 7 of the said debts has been
ch delayed, but also the value and security thereof
id aV( ; b "" 111 Several ini'tance* impair-d and less
ened, so that by tlie ordinary course of judicial
e " , Ps° c f c dJKgs, the British creditors cannot now <
, n obtain and a filially have and-receive full and
adequate compffnfatjon for the lofLs and Jaf.ia
•(i BCS8 CS v ™ lch t«wy have thereby fuf.ained: It i» a
&ree,-j * n ca fes where full comperife
tioii for such lofles and damages cannot for what
.. eV j r , retfon he . dually obtained, had and recei
ve by the laid creditors in the ordinary courfj
of ju'ticc, the United States wjji'make full snd
complete compenfatinn forth.: Srile to the laid
e ' c fed.tors : but it ii Jiitiutftly understood, that
, f " pfovifloti is to extend to such .joffee only as
' ? ve bc< r n oecalioned by the law .al impediment.,
t j°, rc ' and is not to extend to lofies occasion
ed by such iofolvcncy of the debtors or other
" as wou 'd equally have operated to pro
" duce such loss, if the said impediments had not
" exiftcd ; nor to larh lolTes or damages as have
" been occasioned by the manil'eft delay, orncgli
• fcencc, or wilful omillion of the claimant."
By order of the Hoard,
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secretary.
Philadelphia, CommifUoncrs' Office,
No. 3 I'outhSixth-ftreet, May 19,
'791- J 6—§lm
1 Hh SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
5 A 'he Envoy Extraordinary and Minitter Pleui
potentiiryof his Britannic Majesty, General Agent
for aflifting Briiifh creditors, and (uch particular a
gents a» they may specially authorize, in prosecuting
their claims before Ihe CemmilConers for carrying in
to effeft the sixth article ot the Treaty of Amity, Com- 1
mcrceand Navigation betxixen hit Britannic lOjcfty and ;
the United States if America, hereby gives not ice tbat
he has opened his office at his houl'e the south eall
corner of Chefuut and fifth streets, Philadelphia, !
where he is ready to receive all claims or inlljuQions J
for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the purpose of bringing forward the fame agree. J
ably lo the rules and orders which the board may
think proper to prescribe. '
And as it will be lor the interell of all concerned, 1
that the feverai claims be so dated, ana (upport- t
fd, as to prevoottbe delay wttieh wo-j I '' viic Irom I
the nectflity of obtaining ftinher information, or ad- a
dttional materials,from perfcu'i reiiding at a diHanee, I
ibe general agent thinks it his duty t<#add, (for the
direction chiefly of Ihofe, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the ptofecution of
their claims to Ins charge and management) that all
such claims ought jn particular to set forth—
tft. The proper defcripiion and fitnation cf the
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, refpeft
ivcly.
td. The date or nature of the ordinal contrad or
debt. 5
3d. When, in what manner, and ro whaj extent,
the creditor or claimant w»s prweuttd or impeded. "1
by the provision, operatiou or dcfeS of l*w, the J
decisions and pra£tii.c oi courts, or of exe-
cut ion, from tccovciing payment vf the debt in p.
qurltion.
4th The loss and incuned or (uflained,
in confequeuce of (uch impediments, wrhecher the P
fame may have arifeu trom the irv(olveney, change ot
situation, or dcarh of ihe debtor, thr lolj cA iegai
temedy from laplc of time, or other cau<ea impairing ii
»he value and lecurity of the debt, which y would not e<
have lo operated ilfbch impedimefU hari norcxiiUd. Q
And 51b The particular grounds and reaions on J r
which the claimant maip-stns, in the- te'ius of the
trevy, that 14 by the ordinary course pro
ings, the cteditor c-nnot no 4 obtain and J
have and receive full ard adequate compeuiation" for
the loflesind damages so fuftaiucd*
The general agent chinks it his duty further to ftigw of
geft that the feverai claims ought to be accompanied
and supported bv the affidavits of the claimant* duly
(worn and regularly auefted, as to theexiOcnce tl
of the debts claimed, and such other circumstances
as may be within their own knowledge reipc&ively, »
And wherever the claimants in Hating the nature of
their evidence (which mud in every in fiance be the . C '
best ot which the cafe is capable) have occasion to
»efer to the testimony of witiiefres, it will be picper wl
to apprise the general agent of the names and places 1111
of rcGdence of such witnciTci and the fa&sto be elta
biifhed by their teltimony.
Win. Moore Smith. \
Philadelphia, June 8:h, 1707. dim
1 H
John Miller, jun. 6c Co. <
Have received per the India, Alhmeid, from
Calcutta, <
A welt njforted /mall Invoice if
Guirahs
Bafus
Ooflaei
Calicoes
Bengal Stripes
Laid in renairkably low, which they will fell for
calh or Ihort fredit oil very advantageous tertas. Fr
June 5. awfri4t fir
Muftcal Injfrument Manufactory, TJ
No. 167, Arch-Street. vei
. s dif
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, ani
lid '.-hoard, pier table and square piar.o iccfe
mak. r from liondon, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, for their Liberal encouragement,
and hopes that by hisafiiduityand attention to ev- e< *
ery branch of his business, toa-erii a continuance vel
of their favors. Piano fortes made on the newest nli!
and molt approved plans, with pedals, patent, fc "
lvvcll, and French harp flop, which be flatten '
hitr.felf will ue iound ou trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be cquil it not superior to any import
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any faiflru
mi nt purehaftd of him, if not spprovedof i:i
twelve mouths, he will exchange.
N. B. All llitid. oi Muiic.l instruments made, , '
tuned, and repaired with the greatest accuracy, qj.
dilpatch, and on the mo ft realbnable tcrnj>, i,
ready money only.
Second bind PiißS Fot tilten in exchapge.
i^ a r sc. ;; . 1
N°- IJ 9 Cbtfnut Street.
Public Sale of Teneriffd IViuc.
t lie ■
on- > THURSDAY next, the 6th of JV>ly, at 11
ted o'clock in the morning, at the ©ldvSiU Houf
>cr, Stores in Stamper alley, below Pine jlrect, lead
rd, in & / r om Second to Third streets, will be loichi
re- PUBLIC AIJCHON, for appryed notes,
to A qxantitf of best o!d Tfeucriffe Wihe
In pipes, hh.ls. and quarter caiks, the whole u
w>»-h is entitled tti' <sra .v'oack,. being fold to c!o!i
nr ° a configometit. i *
th /. l terms tire, auy qtiaiitity less thar, ten pipes
60 days ; exceeding that quantity, 90 days.
10t The Wine not to be removed till tile notes an
me delivered and approved.
Footman iff Co. Aucl'rs.
,b. June 30- dt6th
FOR SALE,
"Thefollowing Valuable Property.
VACJ&rj' Lot, situated on the cafl fide of
"j n -A- Third-Areet, betwean Shippen and Plumb
-1 Greets, twenty one feet froftt by one hundicJ feet
a! dcep *-
ol A fraffte Tenement fifteen feet by nineteen feet,
, n on north fide of Shippen drest betwean Third
of u^ t ? I'' 1 ''^ rect3r » J he lot is one hundred feet
dt*ep, it is paved before the door, and great hn
, j provements are making in the flreet—die ove is
v , ear ground rer.t and every other incumbrance
, —the house for thirty seven pounds ten sKi 1-
hug-* per anuum.
Aframc Tenement eleven by fixteen.fest, on the
weft flde of Fifth=SPfeet, between Shij pen and
Plumb-fireets ; the J0t,1., ninety fix feet deep, clear
of every incumbrance except a ground rent of oae
hundred and ten fnillinga per annum ; the house
letb for thirty pounds per annum.
ALSO,
A pair ot dark brown Carriage Horses, one of
' z which »an excelleot flatWte Ht>ri«,
For furtbtx- paitirulars inquire of
Samuel R. Franklin,
:r No. ioo, I-ombard-ftrect, corner of Fourth fit.
N. B. The abova property will be fold for part
cufh and part dry goods,
e )une 30. «-,4, v
For Sale,
THE time of a smart, adlivc Negro Boy,'who
has about Hxtecn years t« serve.
Apply to the Printer.
Jane 30. . ■ ' §jt
I he Commiflloners
y "TOR carrying into effed the TWENTY-FIRST
• Article of the Treaty of Friendihip, Limits,
t and Navigation, between His Catholic Majesty
- and the United States of America, hereby give in
-5 farmation to all Persons therein concerned,—That,
- in order to terminate all differences, on account of
- the lofles sustained by the Citizens of the United
' States, in consequence of their Vtflels and Car
' goes having been taken by the Subjeds of His Cath
olic Majesty, during the late War between Spain
; and France, that they are ready te receive (at their
Office, between the hours of ten and one o'clock,
J daily) all complaints and applications, authorized
r by the said Article, during Eighteen Months.
Irom the day of the date hereof, and that they have
t power to examine all such persons as eome before
them, jn oath or affirmation, touching the com
-1 plaints in qneftion, and also to receive in evidence,
all written testimony, authenticated in such man
lier as they ihall think proper to require or admit.
By Order of tie CommtJJlonert,
PETER LOHRA, '
Secretary.
C mmijionerj Office, At). 109, Mulberfy
reet, Philadelphia, May 1797.
c ol u m biX~Souse
Boarding School for young Ladies.
Ml<S. GKOOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
lire and ftfpeft, returns her fineere ac- ]
tor the iiberal encouragement K
file ia« received during four years residence iu
Philadelphia; and afTuret her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, she has made a superior arrangement for '
the more convenient accommodation of her
hholars.—Every branch of ufeftil and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and niaftcrs excelling in their
refpciflive profelTioijs.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets,
Jimfe jth, 1797. fimltf
The fituatian is perfeiflly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot J
of gr.- und adioining the houl'e. ■ '
Houfhold Furniture.
NOW felling by private lale, No. 17 Doclc- i
ftrect— coufifting o chairs, tables, looking- *
glaflbs, bureaus, hand and fire irons, bedsteads, 1
feather-beds carpets, bedding, window curtains, c
bed and table lificn, kitchen furniture, &c. The
whole in good order, and has only been a few
months in use. '
The (ale to continue daily 'till the whole is fold.
Turn- 2 §
Nathaniel Lewis & Son, ,
Have for sale at their fore, No. 7a, adjoining P
George Latimer & Son, Pine-Jtreet Wharf, P
A Quantity ot
Madeira Wines
o
In pipe? and half pipes tl
adeira Wathutsarid Citron, lately imported n
in the schooner Sincerity, Capt. Copia ir
Jl!foy J,
is Puncheons, second and third proof, IVtfl- 0
India Rum, and a few Pipes of Brandy
Tfcey have conflantly on hand and for sale,
French Burr and Country Mill StonsT of various
foe*, and a general afTortment of JCoaltiug Cloths of
the befl quality, both American and Foreign ma
nufacture. The former having proved, from fe
verai years experience of a number of millers in B
different parts of the United States at leafl equal,
and in many inflances Atperior to the European
we hope the manufa&urer, Robert Daw
son, w!l| meet with liberal* encouragement in this
important and ufeful undertaking. He has obtain
ed a patent and exclusive-right of making and
vending Boiilting Cloths on his improved plan tor a
number ®f years, and they are fold only by him
felf in ftate of Pennsylvania, and by
the fubferibers in Philadelphia. th
lune 14 d th
tor iale,
A (i.iir of very handsome
Bay Horses,
Near Cxtcer. hujadi high, Well broke, and per
fcdly gentle, inquire at Mr; licKiao't flatlcs, "
Cf.urch-aliey.
Also, fur Stile,
A Chariot ..rid plated Harnds. pe
J tine 31. diop
lie. FOR SALE,
By Simon Walker,
louf- No. 122, South Fourth-Street,
lead- CII-D and fiivtr Watches
oldmt VJ Shot, corn mo if ami patent
T ill Plates, Sheet [ton '
"in? tfr and (li;et Jynci
I-* r.f <~'°rp* r ftc-t-: and bottoim
, , l Tia,-,t„n t U - -w»A. - -
C ' H,C Ravers Ourls
H»:« iu en' s
"f- Wool C*!\:s v
s are Claret Wine and Porter Bottles in lumper'.
J y f ~ cow
juit K eceive^i,
From Batata (via Providence)
400 half sacks do. do.
~tV. VT A few Bos.ii of Spices, confiding of
1,-of Nutmegs, Cloves and atace
For la!e by
"ikt KILLINGS & FRANCIS,
Pcniiirflrect.
feet, dtf
S Now Landing,
fen jft Pratt's wharf
ye is FROM on board the ship Tkonns Ch»lk!ey,
u.ce (-apt. Raler, from Eoordeaux,
lul- ptLA!<KT inetfc.
V-J Ditto in cases
the Whits* Wine Vinegar
and Red Skins in boats*
r For Sale by
iufe Run die & Leech.
M " - 1.5 $
!0 f Window Glas^
Of Superior Quality, atid cheaper than any other in
1 lie City—
OF SIZES, '
ft t From Bby 6 to r() by 14,
)art C 'be finglc Box or Quantify, may be had at the
S ore o. the Subfcrlbcrj, corner of Aich and Fr~».
Urcct.
James C. fe 5 Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, J ne 9, 1797. 1 wrowftf
;ho To be Sold,
-d large and convenient
Three Story Brick House;
SITU TE at the north-east corner of Arch and
bourtli-ftreets. It contains eighteen rooms—
ST and is in every refpedt well finifted. For j,artic4-
its, lars enquire of
Keppele,
iat, », *3B, Chcfnut-ftreet.
of - Mi, y 3'» j
, e r d Just Imported,
:h- l^e ship Rebecca, from St. Croix,
iin Prime Sugar and Rum
eir 4C.000 wt. of Windward Island Coffee
:k, A quantity of choice Madeira Wine.
f 8 d ' James Yard,
ve So "th fide Walnut Street Wharf,
ire June 21 • «16t
II- " ' "
£ ELEGANTnewFURNITURE
ic - AT 2Y Sel,ing off Chea P> Confining of
i L > Side-boards, commode, front, andfafli
corner card tables, circular and square do.
circular and square bureaus, defies and chairs
or the very newest falhion, bedsteads, and
two very complete secretaries, and book-caf
_ es ' he above articles may be had on ad
vantageous terms, as the owner is about de
chning the business. Persons wiflnng to,
C purchaie are desired to apply immediately,
in Second a few doors above Walnut Street,
, t direcily opposite the city tavern,
u June 27. x * dgt
'•r Will be Landed,
... From on board the ship A<ftive, Capt Blair,from
r Hamburgh,
20 bales white Rufiia clean Hemp
1 calks Clover Seed
j r For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fift-h ft'rcet, No. 24.
tine 26. s
,t Dispute between the United States
and France.
This day ispubjiihed, by Thomas Bimd»ord,No.
8, . s ou:h Front street, prtte 1/4
OBSERVATIONS Oil the difpyte between the
United States and France, addressed by Ro
1, BERT Gocdloe Harpir, of South Carolina, to his
>. conftitneßtK. June g6 -§.6t
I For Sale,
That suellhiozvn place, called Fandegript's
t ! R R Y,
- Nc(hamin y t r «k,' 18 miles from Phila-
KJ ladclphia, on the" New York pojt road,
> containing 74 acres ar.d 94 perches. Upon the
r prcnoifes are a large two iicry flone house occii- 1
pied as z tvern, and a good one ftorv flone kit-
Lhen, a.large frame liable with a good threlhing
'floor, and some out buildings—also a well cf
good water, and an excellent ice House. Oil
this place is a moll elegant fituatipn fora gcntle
i man's fest, commanding a view of the Nelham
iry to its junction wiih the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jersey fliore. It has the privilege
■ of one half ihe toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Subscriber,
MQRDECA! LEWIS,
I Vav 24. itawtf.
This Day is Published,
BY Me(T. Doblbn, Carev, Campbell, Kice, and the
other BocJcfcJlcis,
rice One JDbllar and twenty-five cents.
Elegant y printed on IVcve paper, and IJot
prtjfed,
Bv John i'kompfon,
a ceMPARvriyE view of
The Confiitutions
Of the several States with each other, and wi«Ji
that of the United States, exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of caeh Constitution, and
ciaffing together thiir nioft impsrtant proviSons,
under the several heads of adiiamiftration ; with
Votes andOblV.Tvations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of Suuth- Carolina,
L L. D Anil member of the Congrcfs of the
United States.
Dedicated t:j the People of the United States.
M, B, A few Copies printed on ar. inferior pa
per, at ?-4thsef a dollar.
February 6 icwf
[Vcius.in XII,%%m
'OF THE UNITED STATES.
Publijhed by Authority.
FIFTH CONGRESS
OF THE UNITED STATES.
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia*
in the State of Pennsylvania* on Mon- »
day, the fifteenth day of May>
one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-seven.
An aft providing a Naval Armament.
BE it encßed by the Senate and House of
Reprefentati-jes rf the United States of Ameri
ca, in Congress assembled, That the Presi
dent of the United States be and he is here
by empowered should he deem it expedient
to cause the Frigates United States, Consti
tution, and Constellation, to be manned
ana employed.
And be it further enaSed, That there shall
be employed on beard each of the ships of
forty-four guns, one captain, four lieutenants,
two lieutenants of marines, one chaplain,
one furgeoh, and two furgeens mates ; and
in the ship of 36 guns, one captain, three
lieutenants, one lieutenant of marines, one
surgeon, and one surgeons mate.
And be it further enaSed, That there shall
be employed in each of the said ships, the
following warrant officers, who shall be ap
pointed by the President of the United
States, to wit : one failing master, one
purser, one boatswain, one gunner, one
fail-maker, one carpenter, and eight mid
shipmen ; and the following petty officers,
who lhall be appointed by the captains of
the ships refpeftively, in which they are to
"B£~envployed, viz. two masters mates, one
captains clerk, two boatfwain6 mates, one
cocklwain, one fail-makers mate, two gun
ners mates, one yeomanof the gun-room,nine
quarter gunners, (and for the two large
ships two additional quarter gunners) two
carpenters mates, one armourer, one steward
one, cooper, one master at arms, and one
cook.
And be it further enacted, that the crews of
each of the ships of forty-four gurts, shall
consist of one hundred and fifty seamen, one
hundred and three midshipmen and ordinary
feamfen, three ferjeants, two corporals, one
drum, one fife, and fifty marines ; jnd that
the crew of the ship of thiity-fix guns shall
consist of one hundred and thirty able sea
men and midshipmen ; ninety ordinary sea
men, two ferjeants, two corporals, one
drum, one fife, and forty marines, over and
above the officers herein before mentioned.
nd be it further anaSed, That the pay
and subsistence of the refpeftive commiffion
cd and warrant officers, bt as follows : A
captain, feventy-five dollars per month, and
fix rations perday , a lieutenant, forty dol
lars per month, and fix rations per day ; a
lieutenant of marines, thirty dollars per
month, aod two rations per day ; a chap
lain, forty dollars per month, and two ra
tions per day ; a failing master forty dollars
per month and two rations per day : a sur
geon, fifty dollars per month, and two ra
tions per day ; a surgeons mate thirty dol
lars per month, and two rations per day ; a
purser, forty dollars per month, and two ra
tions per day ; a boatswain, twenty dollars
per iponth, and two rations per day ; a gun
ner, twentv dollars per month, and two ra
tions per day ; a - fail-maker, twenty dollars
per month, and two rations per day ; a car
penter, twenty dollars per month, and, two
rations per day.
Andbe'ft f urtherenaSed, Thatthe pay to be
allowed to the petty officers, midshipmen,
feamcn, ordinary feamenaad marines, shall be
fixed by the President of the United States:
Provided, That the whole sum to be given for
thewhole pay aforefaid, shall not exceed fif
teen thousand dollars per month, and that
eachof the said persons shall be entitled to one
ration per day.
And be it further enaSed, That the ration
shall consist of as follows: Sunday, one
pound of bread, and an half of
beef, and half a pint of rice : Monday, one
pound of bread, one pound of pork, half a
pint of pease or beans, and four ounces of
cheese : Tuesday, one pound of bread, one
pound and an half of beef, and one pound
of potatoes, or turnips and pudding : Wed
nesday, one pound of bread, two ounces of
better, or in lieu thereof fix ounces of mo
-1 asses, four ounces of cheese, and half a pint
of rice : Thursday, one pound of bread, one
pound of pork, and half a pint of pease or
beans : Friday, one pound of bread, one
pound of fait fifh, two ounces of butter, or
one gill of oil, and one pound of potatoes :
Saturday, one pound of bread, one pound
of pork, half a pint of pease or beans, and
four ounces of cheese ; and there shall also
be allowed one half pint of distilled spirits
per day, or in lieu thereof one quart of beer
per d?.y, to each ration.
And be it further enaSed, That the offi
cers, non-commissioned officers, seamen, and
marines, belonging to the navy of the Uni
ted States, shall be governed by the rules
for the regulation of the navy heretofore
established by the resolution of Congress of
the twenty-eighth of November, one thou
sand, seven hundred and feventy-five, as far
as the fame may be applicable to the Con
stitution and laws of the United States, or
by Tikh rules and articles as may hereafter
bs established.
And be it further enoSed, That the Ap
pointment of the officers to the frigates
may be made by the President alone in the
recess of the Senate-} and their commiffi
dfcs, if so fhall continue in force
tul the advice and content of the Senate can
be had thereupon at their next meeting
which may happen thereafter/
And be it farther enaSed, That tKe Tea
men and marines (hall not be engaged to
serve ni» board the frigatesj for a period ex
ceeding one year ; but the President may
discharge the fame sooner if in his judg
ment their serVices may be dispensed with.
And be it further enabled, That if any of
ficer, non-commissioned officer j marine or
feamcn belonging to the tiavy of the Uni
ted States, 1 (hall be wounded or disabled,
while in the line of his duty in public ser
vice, he (hall be placed on the lift of the in
valids of the United States, at such rate of
pay, and under such regulations as shall be
directed by the President of the United
States : Provided always. That the rate
of compensation to be allowed for such
wounds or disabilities to a commifiioned or
warrant officer shall never exceed for the
highest disability half the monthly pay of
luch officer at the time of his being so disa
bled or wounded ; and that the rate of corti
penfation to non-commifiioned officers, ma
rines and seamen, (hall never exceed five dol
lars per month : ,indprovided also, That
all inferior disabilities shall entitle the person
so disabled to receive an allowance propor- 1
tionate to the highest disability.
And be it further enaSed, That the Presi
dent of the Uui'ted States be, and he is
hereby authorized, if circumftaoces (hoi)ld
hereafter arise, which in his opinion may
render it expedient to.increase the strength
of the several revenue cuttets, so that the
number of men employed do not exceed
thirty marines and seamen to each cutter ;
and cause the said revenue cutters to be em
ployed to defend the feacoaft, and repel any
hostility to their vessels and commerce, with
in their jurifdiftion, having due regard to
the duty of the said cutters, in the protec- '
tion of the revenue.
And be it further enaffed, That the com
pensations established by the firft feftion of
the aft passed on the sixth day of May, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-fix, enti
tled " an Aft further provision re
lative to the revenue cutiers" be, and the
fame is hereby continued and confirmed,
on the terms and conditions of the said aft; I
to the mariners and marines, who are or may
be employed as aforefaid.
And be it further enaSed, That this aft '
shall continue in force for the term of one
year, and from thence to the end of the
then next session of Congress and noJonger.
JONATHAN DAYTON*
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
THOMAS JEFFERSON,
Vice-President of the United States, and
President of the Senate.
Approved July I, 1797.
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the Office of
the Department of State.
TIMOTHY.PICKERING,
Secretary of State.
An AH dire Sing the appointment of Agents, in
relation to theJixth article of the treaty of
amity, commerce and navigation, between
the United States and Great-Britain.
BE it enaSed by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of Ameri
ca, in Congress njfembled, That the President
of the United States be, and hereby is au
thorized, by and with the advice and con
sent of the Senate, to appoint a proper per
son to aft in behalf of the United States,
under the direftion of the Attorney-general,
in relation to such claims as may be made
against the United States, before the Com
missioners appointed to carry into efFeft the
sixth article of the treatyof amity, commerce
and navigation, between the United States
of America and his Britannic majesty. And
it shall be the duty of the Attorney-general,
to counsel such Agent, and to attend be
fore the said Commissioners, whenever any
questions of law, or faft, to be determined
by them, shall render his assistance necessary.
Seftion 2. And be it further enaSed, That
the Attorney-general be, and is hereby au
thorised to employ such agents, id different
parts of the United States, as the business
before the said Commissioners, in his opini
on, fhal! make necessary, to be paid accord
ing to their services, at such rate as the Presi
dent of the United States shall direst.
Seftion 3. And be it further enaSed, That
during the continuance of the service to be
performed under this aft, the Attorney
general shall be entitled to an additional
compensation of fix hundred dollars per an
num, and the person hereby direfted to be
appointed, to a compensation at the rate of
two thousand dollars per apnum.
Seftion 4. And be it further enaSed, That
for enabling the President of the United
States, to defray the expenses to be incur
red under, and by this aft, a sum not exceed
ing ten thousand dollars be, and hereby is
appropriated, to be paid out of any monies
not otherwise appropriated.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
THOS. JEFFERSON,
Vice-President of the United States, and
President of the Senate.
Approved, June 30th, 1797 :
JOHN ADAMS, ,
President of the United States.
Deposited among tbe Rolls in the Office of the
Dfpnr intent cf State
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Secretary of State.
An 48 to ascertain the time for the next meeting
of Congress, and to repeal the AS heretofore
t plffid for that purpose.
BE it etiafled by the Senate and House of
Reprefntatives of the United States of Ameri
ca,• in Congress assembled, That after the end
of the present session, the next meeting of
Congress shall be on the second Monday of
November in year.
And he it further enaSed; that the aft inti
tuled " An'aftto niter the time for the
next' mating of Congress," passed on the
third day of March last, be, and the jame is
hereby repealed.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
THOMAS JEFFERSON,
Vice President of the United States, and
President of the Senate.
Approved, fitly, I, 1707 .•
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
Depoiited among the Rolls in the Office of
the Department of State.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Secretary as Stat;.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES,
Saturday, July.
Mr. N. FatFMAN obtained leave of obfence
for tho re.minder of the feflion.
Mr. R> ed reported the bill fixing the time of
the next meeting of Congress, which was ac
cordingly figrted by the Speaker.
Mr. Brookes thought the preterit naturaliza
tion law allowed foreigners too soon to become
citizens of the United States: he wished the law
therefore to be revised, and proposed the follow
ing refoluticn: %
Rel'olved, That a committee be appointed to
prepare and report a hill to amend the a<ft eftab
lifhirig an uniform rule of naturalization. Or
dered to lie en the table.
The bill for continuing proeefsTrt the circuit
court in the state cf North Carolina, was read
the third time ; and was about to be pafied,
when the question on palling was about to be
taken;
Mr, J. Williams wished to know what was
the caul'e of the'negledl: of the Circuit Court
Judges, which gave occasion for this bill.
Mr. Blount said, that he had received a let
ter from Georgetown, Sout': Carolina, inform
ing him, that the cause of the omission wa« that
Jydge Chafe's hurfe bad tired.
The bill was pa (Ted.
The amendments of the#enateto the bill for
continuing in force.feveral afls and parts of a<9s,
were taken up, one of them negatived, and ano
ther amended. The Senate afterwards sent the
bill down with the amendments concurted in.
The House then took up the amendments re
ported by the committee of the whole to the bill
laying a (lamp tax, when the amendment being
under consideration, imposing a tax of twenty
dollars (inftt ad of twenty cents, as dated in our
paper of Saturday ) on certificates of Naturaliza
tion.
Mr. Sw a,n WICK laid, this tax would operate,
in some degree,, as a poll tax, and he thought
20 dollars too confidersble afum for this purpose.
Mr. W. Smith said Jie sum could not be al
tered but by recommitting the bill.
Mr. Gallatin believed the sum might be
deereafed, though it could not.be increufed in
the House.' '
The Speaker confirmed the opinion that it
would be in order to leflcn the sum,
Mr. Swan wick, then moved that the twenty
dollars be reduced to four. In a subsequent part
of the bill, soar dollars were charged as a (lamp
upon any letters patent, and if this were thought
fufficient for a thing of this kind which proba
bly proved very lucrative to the party, he tho't
it would be quite enough foe a foreigner ro pay,
wljen he took upon hinifelf all the rights of a
citizen. This tax might operate upon persons
who might not have twenty dollars in the world.
When they spoke the other day on the fubjeff
of rich moniod corporations, it was hoped they
Ihould be moderate in the tax irnpofed upon
them ; he trufled they Ihould not be less so when
the peir emigrant was concerned.
Mr. Sewall hoped the amendment would
not be mad« Evtrv foreigner who came to
this country, had a full opportunity of getting a
living without enjoying the lights of a citizen ;
and he knew nut why he (hould become a citi
zen, if he did not think (he privilege worth 20
dollars, and was willing to pay it.
Mr. Gordon gave it as a rcafon for not di
miiiifhing this fom, that foreigners might live
were five years, without being omiged te serve
any public offices, such is eonltable, &c.
' Mr ..Brookes did not think the sum exceflive.
He would not have th« right of citizenlhip made
too common. He had no objeiiion to the ad
mitting of foreigners into this country, hut there
were foreigners came here, fugitives fremjuflice,
and others, who never would be of any advan
tage to any country. These, for the final! sum
of 10 dollars, might become citizens —he would
not have them admitted for less, as it would be
neceflary te have some fecurily for the attach
ment of persons to the government of this coun
try ; and such men as would be of advantage to
the country would not think the sum too large.
Mr. Gallatin denied that the argument of
the gent'eman frotn New-York would apply, as
a person's paying a sum of money, would be no
proof that he was well aflefted to the govern*
ment. A conviil er a highwayman might
bly pay te dollars with greater ease than the
wortiiieft of men.
Mr. G. said he objefled to the sum of twenty
dollars, because it would opei'ate in a very im
proper manner. A Tingle man might, in a
(hort time, save the money neceflary to purehafe
his citizenship ; but he knew a great uumber of
persons, who cime to this country with large
families, very valuable emigrants, and upon
whom we had more security for their good be
haviour than upon single men, upon whom this
tax would fall very heavy.
He objefled to the tax also as iv related to the
children of those persons.""He knew a great num
ber of emigrant families, with many children,
whose heads werenot'at prcfent citizens of this
country; and these children, if their fathers
should not be able, or Ihould neglefl, to become
a citizen, though they may have received their
education here, ind formed the ftrongelt attach
ment to the government and country, yet, be
fore they can become citizens, they wi l<ach of
them have to pay 20 dollars. This would be
extremely hard, and it would not only be hard,
bet it might become dangerous to the ptace of
the country ; besides that the property ef every
person not being a citizen would want that se
curity which it woyld otherwise have. Nor did
he conceive it would be perfectly fafe to have
one fourtbi if not one third part of the inhabi
tants of a country living as foreigners, in its bo-
Cora. These men, speaking the fame language,
and having the fame manners, after they had
been in the country ten or fifteen years, would
lock upon the refufal to admit thera to the com
mon tight of citizens, except upon the payment
ef 30 dollars, as unjufi and oppreflive. If so
large a sum was charged, Mr. G said, provision
(hould be made, in favour of the children of such
fathers as Ihould not themfclves have been citi
zenr- As four dollars might, perhaps,he thought
too small a sum, he (hould move to strike out the
twenty, and to leave the sum blank
Mr. obferved, that it had
been urged in favor of this large sum, that
foreigners would not be obliged to become
citizens, as they might get a living in the
country without doing so. But was it not
of advantage yhe allied, that foreigners fliould
become c:ti«as, and not that a great part
of the people of our country (hould be living
among!! us, without owing allegiance to
' our government ? But'it faid these em!
! grants might be highwaymen, or men of bad
chara&er > but did not the naturalization
law require, that every person applying to
be made a citizen, should produce two wit
nefles to l'peafc ro their moral character :
And surely after a r'efidence of five years,
and a guard of kind, there could not be
any reason for such arguments. It (hould
seem, from what was said, on this Occasion,
that twenty dollars was to be the price upon
which we were willing to admit the vvorft of
charafters to the privilege of citizen (hip.
But it was said, that if this tax were not
laid, the rights of citizenship would become
too common. This was a doctrine contra
ry to aliy thing he had heard before on the
fubjeft. Since the year 1776 it had been
uniformly the language of this country, that
we had, in weftern world, opened an
asylum for emigrants from every country.
This was our language: " Come and join us
in the ble flings we enjoy in a country large
and fertile, and under a government founded
upon the principles of liberty and justice."
Were the inhabitants of this country all
born in it ? Certainly not ; a great majority
were foreigners ; even in the government it
felf were very many foreigners. And (hould
they, because they came a little sooner, or
had better fortune than others, fay to their
less fortunate brethren, " you (hall not be
admitted to the privilege of citizenship but
on the payment of twenty dollars, though
we received it without money and without
price ?" It was said a man might soon earn
20 dollars to pay for this privilege ; but sup
posing he could soon earn 50 dollars, he did
, not think that a good reason for laying this
tax.
The gentleman from NengHampfliire had
alledged as a reason for this high tax, that
foreigners were excused, before they became
citizens, from (haring in the burdensome
offices of the community ; but he thought
this was a rcafon for admitting foreigners
earlier, in order to (hare such offices with
our citizens. For it would be a curious
thing, if there (hould be occasion for the
services of these men in defending the coin
try, if they (hould refufe to turn out, oe
caufe they had been refufed adifi'iTion to the
participation of its immunities.
In a country like ours, he said, it was ex
tremely impolitic to throw obftru&ions in
the way of emigrations. He was desirous
that every attention (hould be paid to the
moral character of emigrants before they
were admitted as citizens, but he trusted
they (hould not degrade the country in the
eyes of foreign nations by putting so high a
tax upon the privilege of citizenship. It
would ill suit the high tone which had been
held abroad of the liberty of this country ;
nor did he think their constituents would be
well pleased with such a tax.
If they compared this tax with other
parts of the bill, it would be found much
heavier than any other. A lawyer was to
pay 1 o dollars upon the entrance of his lu
crative profeffion ; whilst a poor foreigner
was to pay 20 to be admitted as a citizen.
In doing this, gentlemen seemed desirous
only of having rich emigrants as citizens,
whilst the poor wanderer, flying from the
hearth tax of Ireland, or from the oppressi
ons of other countries, who would be vastly
ufeful in the cultivation of our land, and in
every ufeful labour, would be in a great mea
sure excluded from their rights in society. •
Mr. Harper enquired if it would be in
order to llrike out the whole provision I
Being told it would not, he said he should
then be in favor of the present motion, and
if it were carried, vote against the whole.
He did not think the lubjett had any con
nexion with the present bill ; nor was he
of opinion that to lay a tax of this kind
would be a means of securing to us better
citizens, than if there were no tax. He
would have citizenship given without price,
but he would require a longer residence to
be neceflary than was required by the pre
sent naturalization law.
He did not agree with the'gentleman last
up, on the propriety of inviting emigrations
from all parts of the world. There was a
moment of enthusiasm in this country, when
this was thought to be right, when \be were
not fatistied with giving to emigrants every
blefling which we had earned with our blood
and treasure, but admitted them instantly
into the rights of citizenship. An experi
ence of ten or fifteen years, he said, had
convinced us we were wrong. They had
done something to prevent the evil in future;
but he thought they should do more. He
should be willing that no man (hould become
a"citizen of this country but by birth : he
would have all foreigners freely admitted,
and he would admit their children to have
a right to citizenship. He believed this
would be a proper policy for this and every
other country.
Mr. Swanwick withdrew lift motion.
Mr. Macon opposed the tax? altogether,
as tending to injure the poor and industrious
part of the emigrants to this country, which
he looked upon as the most valuable.
Mr. Goodrich did not think it was in
ordA- to discuss the propriety or impropriety
of encouraging emigration. The only ques
tion before them was, whether or not the
certificate of citizenship was a proper objeft
of taxation. He thought it was. It was
not a sale of citizenship, as had been repre
sented, but a stamp tipc n this kind of paper.
He thought the argument of the gentleman
from Pennsylvania, that if a father neglected
to become a citizen, all his children, before
they could be citizens, would have each to
pay 20 dollars 5, would be a tie upon parental
affe&ion, for a father to do what his chil
dren would be so much- benefited by.
Mr. Vendible did not know that it Was
neceflary to take a certificate when a person
was naturalized, and therefore the duty
might be evaded.
Mr. Craik doubted not, if this tax were
laid, that if persons were not now obliged
to ta:cc a certificate, such an obligation
would be laid upon them. He voted in Hi
of 20 dollars ; but, on reflection, he thouJM
the sum too large. He believed the
proper for taxation, and should only
the fubjeA in that light. It would .fl
operate, he said, on men coming into tlfl
country only, but upon many persons alrea.W
in it. He had been frequently witness 9
applications from men to become cit(zenM
who had been i{i the Country from the yc.H
1783.. Many of these, fmce the paffirig I
the general law, had been fl
tural.ized under the general date laws; anlß
if it were determined that this naturalization ]
was not effectual, they v ould have the ceh> I
mony again to go through under the law oU
the Unitid States. It was very unfoundß
policy, and he questioned the cbnfiftency oM
it, to mrke property a rule for a man's be-1
coming a citizen. One of the rights of J
citizen was #oting at an election, and it ifl
was neceffai y he' mould be poffefltd of a ceil
tificate of this kind b«fore his vote could bl
admitted, it would be the fame thing as tl
require him to be possessed of a certain pofl
tion of property before he had a right I
vote. In this view he thought the principlH
improper. He wished the gentleman froJB
Pennsylvania had not withdrawn his motion, 1
as he fhculd be in favor of voting for a fmaJl 1
sum.
Mr. Lyon w?s opposed to this amendment
It appeared to him in Urious, cruel and impoh
ric. It was injurious, bccaufe we had dealt on;
a different kind of language heretofore* weba>
toil! the world, that there was in this country
S*ood i'pring of Liberty, and invited all to com:
and daink of it. We had told them the country
was rich and fertile, and invited ffacm ccmi
and taste of our fruits; and he did not think i
right now to turn found to them anrl fay
" You shall not be admitted as citizens urt'efs yoi
n treaty, offenfive and defenfive with the Mo
njrch of Britain, to prevent his fubjeifs fron
: aving him and coming hither. He was almof
led to fufpefl the thing was introduced oa th(
fucireflioi of a certain Foreign Minister.
The Speaker declared such fuggeftion®
to be wholly out of order.
Mr. Sewall said, tho' he wifned this
cpuntry to be an asylum for men of every
other who chose to come to it, yet he die
not wish to fee foreigners our Governors;
fold indeed, if they were, admitted as voter 3
at our elections, they in some degree, be
came the governors of pur country. He
wi flied, therefore, that a longer residence
Hmuld be necefTary, before a foreigner should
become a citizen. He liked this amend
ment, because it made it neceflary for a man
to have a little property before he could be
admitted. "This was looked upon as neces
sary in every other country. Nor did he
think the tax too large, as any man might
afford to pay this sum after he had beei> five
years in the country. They had seen men
to-day take the oath of allegiance and be
come citizens of the United States, and the
next again be :ome citizens of the French
by entering on board.their pri
vateers.
Mr. R. Williams said, there was fuf
ficient reason for disagreeing to this pro-io
fition, without considering the policy or im
policy of admitting foreigners to the right.l
cf citizenship. The objeft of (his bill, t:e
said, was to lay a tax upon property, -sr -
evidence of property, and he wished it t(, us l
confined to thgt objeft. This amendment a
was rather a tax upon liberty, than upon I
property, and therefore improper to be in-J
iroduced into it. As to what was said
the gentleman from Massachusetts on ijfl .
fubjeft of a foreigner being possessed of
property before lie, should be admitted aw a
citizen, such a consideration might be. a ge; d
one, introduced in its proper place, but r.ot
here. He trusted, therefore, the amend
ment would not ijevail. In place of 20
dollars, he lhould be unwilling to vote for a
cent for this object, since he believed th
principle to be wrong.
Mr T hatcher said, gentlemen viewed
only one fide of the qucftlofi : They eon
flan tly spoke of the 20 dc liars, which they
called an enormous sum ; but they said no
thing of the benefits which were to be re
ceived in return. They were to feceive for
that sum all the advantages which this coun
try had obtained by much treasure and
blood. He thought the doors of naturali
zation too wide. Too many foreigners em
igrated hither ; they were out of propor
tion to the natives ; for he wished.the Ame
rican interest always to prevail over all for
eign interest. He would much rather, there
fore, that the certificate was forty dollars
than twenty.
Mr. J. Williams did not think thjj
question was put upon its true ground. This
bill was intended to raise funds towards
paying off the national debt—the debt in
curred in fighting for our liberty and inde
pendence ; and shall those, said he, who
come to partake of these advantages, pay
nothing for it ? If the country was not
worth the tax imposed, foreigners would net t
come to it. If the tas were too high, it
might be lowered : o • if too low, made
higher. He was for having the law go into
effeft, as experience would enable them 10
make it more perfect. A#jy man who was
indtjftrious, he was certain, would never be
grudge the payment of 20 dollars for this
objeft-—he would rather glory in it. The
liberty of the country was rated very low
indeed, when it was not thought to be worth
twenty dollars.
Mrr Brookes was in favour of retaining
the clause. Twenty dollars could not be
said to be the price of naturalization, but
merely as a stamp upen the certificate j nor
was there any more impropriety in this,
than laying a duty upon the admifiion of
lawyers to exercise their profeffioi).
Mr. M'Dowell was against the amend
ment. He looked upon it as a departure
from the spirit of oar Government, and de
rogatory to us-as an enlightened nation.—
It had been remarked by gentleman, that
we had fought and-bkd for our liberties. It
was true, that we baa fought for liberty,
but, he trusted, we did not mean to confine
it to ourselves, I. • V 1! ,it out to others. |
On the cootprjr, vf other countriesr ▼
P L. d been i iviirj 'uycome and psrtake with
I of . ot»r laws had Mlgaic,
K| to this bi.it now, after vvil't numbers were
| come, and others wore coming, all at once,
wo piopofc to id: 1 e file of our privileges.
I F. us he couid not agree to. It was 'not
the woaithy, the fi:gh bred, the well born,
j tnat he wanted to emigrate to our country ;
h was a different class of men., viz. mecha
nics, farmers, and < t lier hiduftrious per.
sons ; it was men like these .who were
granted to improve our country, and it would
very inconvenient for them to pay the
1 sum pt opofed. If the country were frfiall
and full of people, there might be feme
ground for the policy 5 but there was none
at present.
Mr. Gallatin said, when he was up be
fore, the question was whether the tax
fnOuid be reduced from twenty dollars to
four; it was now whether there should be a-'
ny. He confidei ed this law merely as a re
venue law by means of stamps; but it ap
peared from what had fallen from the gen
tleman from Maffacliiifetts (Mr. Sewall)
that the: clause now under consideration was
not so much introduced for the purpose of
revenue as for changing the law refpe&ing
naturalization. He conceived that law had
nothing'to do with the present question;
indeed it would be impossible to take the ne
cessary views of fubjeft, whilst they
were considering the bed way of raising a
revenue by means of stamps. They had
proposed to raise a revenue from certain pa
pers in txiftence ; but this proposition went ,
to tax a paper which had no existence; for j
a new law must be passed, if this clause was :
■ agreed to, directing that these certificates ' '
fhallbe issued. The proper way of doing
the business. would be to fay, that no man J
should be admitted a citizen without paying ' ,
20 dollars. There would be no occasion '
for a stamp to do this.
But if the clause before them were to be
considered as intended to operate as a theck
upon naturalization, he did not think it a
proper way of doing it. He did not think
they ought to put a price upon the right of
citizenftiip. The gentleman from Mafia- '
chufetts (Mr. Thatcher) laid they were to ,
consider the advantages received for the 20 j t
dollars; so that according to his idea the '
value of a citizenfliip would be worth 20
dollars, and of course that it would be too
dear at 50. He, on the contrary, thought j'
the privileges of an American citizen inva- v
luable to every one who was sensible of their
importance; and that money could not be !
placed in comparison with them.
Mr. G. juftified the manners of«the peo
ple of Pennsylvania. though that state had
always encouraged emigration, even whilst
under the British government. Indeed, he p
said, the manners of Europe were the man- ! j
tiers of this country. In the firft conftitu- q
tion of Pennsylvania, every man who resi
ded one year in the state was entitled to citi- '
ifenfhip. There was a. time when this was o)
also the policy of the "United States. In
order to prove this, he read the following '
passage from the Declaration of Indepen
dence.
" The history of the present King of ]
Great Britain is a history of repeated injuries
and rfnrp-ations, all having in dire£t objedt
the establishment of an ablblute tyrranny t(1
over these states. To prove this, let fadts
be fubmitten to a candid world. v .
And then, amongst other grievances the t ;,
Declaration states, that" He has endea- I '
voured to present the population of these !
states; for that purpose, obftrudling the ' _ r
laws for naturalization of foreigners j refu- ' |, e
sing to pass others, to encourage their mi- /
gration theither, and raising the conditions
of new appropriations of lands." f
If there was a certifiSite direfted to be
issued on a person's becoming a citizen of j?''
the United States, he (hould have no ob
jedlion to lay any model ate duty upon it; t j t
and if the object was revenue, he was cer- g,
tain a small sum would raise more than a en
larger. He should therefore, renew the p.,
motion of bis colleague to reduce the 20
dollars to 5, that the sense of the house | na
might be taken tipon it; for if a small sum
was agreed upon a great number of emi- a fl
grants to this country since the year 17*0,
who" having been made citizens by the go- tec
vcrnment of the state, believe themselves to pj.
be citizens, would renew the ceremony, ac
cording to the laws of the United States. ] 0I!
There were from 7 to 8,000 persons of this . mc
description in the state of Pennsylvania a- oc(
lone. ;
Mr. G. again spoke of the hardship under . f u ]
which a tax of 20 dollars would lay the poor i COI
man, and especially his children, who would
be punished for the neglect, the poverty or ( , t ,'
the death of their parent. He trusted, there- ' 5
fore, if a tax were laid upon these certifi- his
catee, it would be a low one. I P'd
Mr.J. Williams moved to (hike out 5 do!-1 J
lars, and insert ten He said that such persons t
?.s wete not naturalized were still feeured in Lj:
the poffeftion of their land in the flare of New a
York, by an annual law for that purpose; and J
he doubted not the fame was done in the t0 \
state of Pennsylvania, therefore that could be t!
no objefl'i 1 to the tax. 7
(Te be continued.) be 1
QUEBEC, June ic. "7
f ~ _ t.or
Ihe special Comtiiidion of Oyer and Ter- and
miner, for the trial of all persons indi&ed fijr 9
High Tteafon or mifprifion of Tteafon com- fuc '
mitted within the Diftija of Quebec, was
opened on MonCay last —and on the lime day det'
a molt ekccliei.t charpe delivered by the ate'
kJMet Juftict to th«-Grand Jury. «>n
Yefterd<iy the Giand Jdry found a Bill *
agai.ilt David M'Lane for High Treason.
The Court cow (lands adjourned to Friday 1
the jjpth instant, on which day I"?'Lar.e will
arraigsed. mai:
1
FAYETTEVI LLE, June, 24, fcr r b
Our intelligence announced in the last Wil- we r
mington paper, of the capture of Judge Chafe, wou
by the Fr - n'h privateer l.e Grwuper, '
'he friends of the federal judiciary irr this state
:nuch concern. ■ i 11
j • i) ■ • ! ncv!
i: id ml. K own this gct.cman \v;:s lately j attl:
r tt:i ealiedti H'io if on 'hc*.her}*!) o! the Supreme
a<ie couit ol the IT. Sia'cs by re.ifon of his-law
•ere knowledge, his ts:',irf..-cnJeiit virtues and great ]
ice, ilifcretioit : his l»;:s therefore, miy be fevcrely i
;es. felt by ifeprivation of fu "b jri lie id! afiiftaiiee.
not But in another view, it m:y be d<eply rie- ]
rtl, pl 'red, whan it is considered i hat the praftiee
y ; of the French eorfaiis on our coasts, fs to fend J
ha- their booiy> to the island of Guadalop® for
>er. condemnation; fhiuld the J'.idge Chafe fall ]
ere into the unfpariiig hands of Vi&or j
u!d be as ptop-rty belonging to the United
the Stau-s.be deemed contraband, and as such; v
tall adjldged good prize—As the Judges pf.
me Gaadaioupe arefaid not to be enough to exe- a
jne cue duty in condem'iation of American 0
captiiies, (so immermn are they theie ) it
be- may therefore be apprehended, Vi£h>r, from w
:ax his supreme autltoi: jr, tray add Chafe to the J
to_ number ot his Judges: If so, from thit man's
;a- rapid progress towards the federal judgment n
re- Icjt it this (late, —North-Carolina may trem
ip- bhngly await the intimation of his decrees in n
:n- a nother tribunal.
") I,M , *
of %f)c oasette,
ng ■—
ad PHILADELPHIA, n "
" e '_ WEDNESDAY EVENING, JULT e fr
ey ' n *
■J FO URTH Of JULr—l 797 .
The Day was celebrated with unusual hi- M
larity and joy. Detachments of the Light th
! Horse, Artillery and Uniform Companies
or l os Infantry paraded in honor of the Day, so;
as ; and at several periods Federal salutes were un
' fired. At noon, the Governor of this Com
'S monwesith, officers of the general and state th<
! governments, members of both fioirfes of In
| Congress, the society of the Cincinati, Offi- wa
J " cers of the jpilitia in their uniforms, theTo
j reign Ministers and many private citizens
® waited on the Prsfident of the United States Co
with their congratulations. The public gar- 'hi.
* dens round the city were thronged—fele& '
' and large parties dined at various places, and
. ihe Day was spent in general demonstrations »y
r" , of joy and feftivity.
® j Mr. Blanch ard launched a Balloon from . his
I the yard of the Debtors apartment in Wal- nea
16 "ut S:reet. A beatiful ttanfparency, Is- By
° dependence, was exhibited at the New ot>t
® Theatre. The Gardens at Bush Hill were llvt
1 lighted with a profufion of lamps, the music
}' was fine, and the fire works brilliant. An
lr | allegorical transparent painting was difplay
e ed from the back of the honfe which had a f>"<
fine effe£t. a tt
d • onc
Yefterday the Houie of Representatives a w
adjourned at 12 o'clock and waited on the '
e : President of the United States to congratu- this
' ' late him on the day. The Society of the P r "
Cincinnati also waited on him and prefetited 1
an address congratulating him on the day, tha
and complimenting himon his eleftion. The "»>c
s officers of the militfc, foreign ministers, the the
1 , members of the Senate, and a great con- Fre
J course of citizens ajfo waited on the Presi
dent. The President was dressed in full u
niform on the occasion, and looked extreme- .p,
ly well. He (hewed by his countenance the I
j* delight he felt at the return of the aufpici- !
ous anniversary. The volunteer corps par- :
took of a cold collation prepared for them j
' in the President's garden, drank his health
with three huzzas, and then filed off thro' ,
! the House.
■ I cam
• | Yesterday, in pursuance of arrangements ? > * L V
1 previously made, a large number of the mem
bers of both Houses of Congress dined to
' getherat Fouquet's Hotel in Tenth Street, to °
'j to celebrate the anniversary of the glorious pro
■ day on which our country assumed the
. rights offelf government. General Marshall, P 1
Envoy Extraordinary to France, Colonel F ct
i Innes, one of the Commifiioners for execu-
ting the sixth article of the treaty with Great p r
Britain, feveralofficers oftheExecutive Gov
ernment, and other gentlemen of diftinftion
partook«with them the pleasures of the day.
The honorable Mr. Sedgwick of the Se- . >
■ nate presided, and Messrs. Sitgreaves and r i
Bayard of the House of Representatives, w?r
afted bs Vice Presidents. Ufc
The truly American Fejlival was cejebra- p
ted under the auspices of the American »
Flag, and with that hilarity and pleasure g _ cr
which the great occasion, mutual confidence, j per
long acquaintance, and affe&ionate attach- Dtfei
■ ment were calculated to excite :—Recent BAN
occurrences evinced the necessity' of rallying
round American principles ; after dinner the | u( . f
: following toasts were drank with universal
J cordiality.
I. The Day—May the Anniversary of Indepen- *' n '
dence nevci 1 be clouded by national humiliation.
9- The Vrefident of the United States—May ~
• hit firmnefs perpetuate the feflival, which his intre-
Ipid policy contributed to ettablifh.
3. Our beloverl fellow-citizen, Georok Wash
ington—May those who jvouM depreciate hit
j worth, or forget his services, be themselves despis
ed and forgotten. OTttll
4- The Confiitution—Rfto p«rpetua hldi
5. The American People—May their devotion
to liberty never be facrificed to their love of peace. Z,
6. American Gratitude—May its favorite *
theme he American virtue. ,
7. OurN itionalCharaittr—May its purity never
be contaminated by foreign imprcflions. ,
S. Onr Envoys to France—May their conciliato
ry million fpecdily terminate in an acconunoda.
tion of our diiferences compatible with our rights
and honor. <5
9. Our Diplomatic Agents—May they disdain
such praises as vilify the government or their coun-'
try. 1
10. TheConflituted Authorities—Deteflion and driWl
detestation to tbofc men who betray and caiumui- 2
ate the gpverntnent they they were chosen to ad- I
minister and sworn to maintain Jun
11. The Patriots of the Revolution—whodread
ed more the lo:'s of their rghts than the expence of L
defending them. * V^l
11. The nations in amity with the United States
—May our treaties be framed with wisdom and (
maintained with fidelity g
13. American our dignified J
forbearance bq the pledge of energetic defence. j
14." The Twin Sifters, gricuiture and Cora- 'j
aierce—M»y they be jealous only of those who j,
would disunite them. j
15. The progress of Arts and Literature—May r '
\hey emfcellifh lociety without corru"ting it. " r cX '
16 llie Fair .Daughters of America—May they
j never reward with their smiles those who tremble
j at the si owns of their ecui-try's foes.
, ■ ; : \ ; A Ip -
VOLUHTF.E R S.
Ia '- V By Mr. Sedgwick—The right fort of li
e-it Berty, and the right forttof Government to
eiv protest it.
iee- By Mr. Sitgreaves—French Generality—
oe- jyiuy it preach less and praftife more-
K j ATr. Lavard.-—Trie land we live in—
end M a y iTo W witb Milk and Honey.
r °,! y Geii. Marshall / mericanprinciples—
'' May tlle ) r always be'rightly valued by the
ies . American people.
u-tl By Mr. Smith of Charleston The Nn
? i v )' "f America—May itsinfant strength soon
attain maturity, which will enable 11s to give
*«- a good account of the means of defending
:at > our rights.
1 " By col. Innes.—Mav nil the wars of the
T Y OrU eventuate peace, liappirtrfs and free
* dom to the Belligerent powers.
By Air. Cochran.—America ! May the
nt genius of Freedom never iake her flight from
the 'oil that tiourifhes the feeds of improve -
ln me:>t.
By Mr. Harp-r—The Rattle SiUike of
** America pacific in its nature, but terrible
when attacked.
By Mr. Steele, Comptroller of the Trea
sury—Our EnvoysExtraordinat-y—in their'
million, may they fatisfy their country's
friends and disappoint their country's e
nemifcs.
By Mr. Champlin.—The native Ameri- ,
can tree of liberty, of the growth of'7s—
- May the people always distinguish it from -
it 1 the exotics of the present day. i
-3 Mr. Sewall The American Eagle, '
h faring above the storms of Faaion in the
re unclouded day of order and peace,
i- Many other toafls were given, and among '
:e the reft, the health of MeiTrs. Marfliall and
jf Innes, after they had refpeftively retired, <
i- was toasted with affectionate in t< reft.
>-
is 7hts forenoon, the elegant Seat of Mattif.lv t
:s Coffi a'Guam, Efq in the neighbourhood of -
-- this City, was burnt down.
\ - ;
d Lajl evening, Mr, Phiup Burk, forma- '
8 ny yedrs keeper of the Old Kouli Khan 7a- f
vern in Chef nut flreet, king on a party with (
1 . his family, fell out of a Jkollopinto the River, v
- near Franlford Creek, and was drowned, '
- By the exertions of a young man who jut Aped F
v over after him, he was got on board a- r
e live, but expired in about It 1 minutes. j
e ■
1 MORE FLOUR MERCHAATS'I! f
It is rumoured, that the present secret bu- 2
1 finefs before Congress, arises partly out of
a treacherous correspondence carried' on by
one of the virtuous minority of the Senate,
s a warm democrat. "
; Upon this Mr. Bache, in the Aurora of p
. this morning observes—" Briti/h gold the
: primum mobile." f r
1 I'c has long since been a general opinion
1 that, the virtuous order of people called de- E
mocrats would not be very scrupulous in t<
■ their choice of gold whether Britifli or u
French, if they could but obtain it. F
" Tbus every day'j s experience proves, U
Theft Patriots have their price." £
The following lines we;-, found to a Junk
Bottle, S. W. by W. from Norman's
Land, v.ithin figl.oof land, on the 2d of nl
June, 1797» by MelF.enrs Fortunatus y
Peale, Joseph Tiltan, and Capt. Silas
Cottle :• '
" This will let that person know how I
came by my end. Was for a young lady in
Newport, Rhode Island where I firft found
her and (he would keep my company for
two years, but while I was a voige and she
took tip with another man which
proves my ruin and I could not but make
way with my felf, the night the 21ft day of
April I did drown my felf. Whoever Ihall
get this, I wirti you would let the world M
know what became of me and all my dear
friends in the public prints. y I was born in I s !
Portsmouth New Hampflnre tny name is .
CHARLES ROBINSON So no more." ™
(A true Copy.) s
Married on the 2d inft. by the Rev. Jo- G i
feph lurner, Mr. Joseph Karrick, to be:
Miss Rebecca Ord, both of this city. In.
La
PRICES OF STOCKS. Ca
* fne
6 per Cent. t(f%\lnter- ®'j
% per C«Dt. lof7. | eji off 8a!
Deferred 6 per Cent. 11/3 a t.l/4 4 2 '
BANK United States, dividend rff I4perct. * 01 '
t'ennfylvauia, da. j» _
North America, 50 •
lofuranee Comp. S. A. lhares 50
1 ■ Pennsylvania, 4a 5 per ct. adv.
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days par !
—— at 60 days 6j
at 90 days 62 con
Amtterdam, per guilder 40 C
■*
yldvertifemcnts tmavoidably
omitted this day, Jhnll have a
place iti our next. To
WALKER KENNEDYT"
No. 73, South Front Street, I
, Have for Sale, eigl
k VirghviTobacco, of the Richmond infpec- 1
tion 0 c '
350 bbls. Virpinia Flour and Middlings
500 bushels Wheat
5 ealks Ginfang
ALSO,
"Three cases Rou'ens X.iaecs, entitled to the H[
draWback ' _f
aoq pieces Bandar.noeJ, and -*
ioocadies India Sewing &)k.
June 1?. tbsw"t V
Cc,
Chocolate and Mqftard Ln / r
Manufadtured as usual, LtT
Gjnger and Ftpper pround >
Shi-lled or Pearl Barley
Bh'rfkdelphia Porter, 1 Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter „
Taunton and Briton Ale j.
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled, °»
or by the pipe, qnarter-cafk or jallon—fuitable j^ r
for exportation or home cftnfumption— '
Fpr Salt- br
/ job Ilaworfb. the
IS"o.yTo W Front flreet J
tto % I day'sMVia;].
BOSTON, Jons 30. '
Capt. Lull from Gibraltac, informs, That a
Lwdays prior to h : s departure, a SpaniOi fri
gate ef funs, taken by Jarvis, was brought
I in. Jarvis letter to the Goveinor, mentions,
r — J a galleon, which was iti compai'y with the
the ' ' rl ? 3 te, had escaped—was rift aihore, the money
I got out, ani Was deflroyed.
l f a _ 1 attonality.— r l h * wife French Minifier
1 of Marine, Merim, .decla-res enmity to our Trea
i.on | ty wish Great Britain, at the fame time that he
ive 1 COiiicfTes it t( incomprehsnjible. l *
ng _
„ , . Paris* May la.,
he "y 'ne fecon 1 rcprefentation m.ide to life two
•C. Councils, of the campaigns of France, it ap
pears that from Ihe Blh September, to the
19th February, 1797, the aririits of the French
Republic* have gained 261 victories, of which 31
>m were pitched battles-have killed 162,600 of
re- their enemies—made prisoners 197, 7 3,—taken
238 flrong cities, 319 forts, eamp6 and rsdoubts,
0 f 7963 cannon and mortars, 186,761 fire arms,
>le 4.388.i80 pounds powder, 107 ilandards, 5486
horses, &c. fLe Cenjeur des yournaux .J
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
's
Pout of Philadelphia.
_ arrived. DAY s,
J Ship Manchester, Shcwell, Bordeaux, 53
Lady Louisa, Bazing, Jamaica, ig
n —— American Eagle, Pearfon, Lisbon, 7S
Schr. Daphne, Morse, Miragi.an, 18
-, "Hope, Parl'ons, Cape l'ranccis,
e Captain Shew«ll spoke, on the 30th ult. the
brig Dlainoiid, Eaftburn, out 7 davs, from hence
to Liverpool, in lat. 39, 1;, l ong ; 6 Q , 12 .
d New-\ ork, JtJy
lARRI V I Dt
' Ship Huldy, Warner, Hamburg, g,
Captain George Clarke, fate of the brig Neu-
D trality, of Bath, arrived here on Saturday in ihe
if fh ip Eleven Sons, from Jamaica.
Captain Clarke, from Savannah bound tcSthe
Weft Indies, was captured on the lit of April, 1
r by the French privateer Polly, commanded by
one Alexander Bulcher, wfco isfrcm, and has a <
" family in Charleston, and carried into St. Jago de
b Cuba; where fci»veSy and'cargo were secured '
, without a reason why they did so. After seve
ral 9 confinement, being knocked down re- '
J peatedly with a cutlas, and other wife illy treated 1
_ Captain Clarke-was difmifled without any satis- '
fadtion refpefling his vefiel or cargo—they beine J
deat to all his entreaties. f
Captain Jeflup, May *l. W as boarded by the U
French privateer, La Liberte de la Fortune, of I ,
- 21 guns, from Nanti. J
f June 27, spoke the ship Algomirle, 37 days'' t
r from' Gibraltar, bound to New-York.
June 28, spoke the brig Ann, of and bound h
to Boston, 16 days from St. Bartholomews. t i
, Same day, spoke the schooner Ann, frem N.
1 Providence. t j
' June 29, spoke the Atalanta, of Wifcaflet, tc
from Liverpool bound to New-York. tl
Capt. Warner in a schooner from St.
Bartholomews who went past this port yes- f<
terday, on his way to the eastward, informs r '
ys, that previous to leaving that port, a
French privateer had arrived there, the cap- ~
tain of which reported that he had taken an
Eail India lhip, belonging to Philadelphia
and while condu&ing her for Guadaloupe, r
on the Bth day, he fell in with the British J
(loop of war Lapwing, who retook the
prize, and was very near taking him. Capt. "I
W. could not inform of the name of the *
(hip nor the Captain's name. The Lap-
wing carried the prize into St. Kitts. w
American vejjels left at Martinique Bth ult■ cc
Salem, Kline, Alexandria 'h
S.callow. 1 avlor, Plymouth
FricHdfhip, fjarlow, ditto
Eigle, Davie, ditto
—— Argo, Woods, Portland
Rrig Jcfeph, VVaiTe ditto ar
Sloop Hannah, Smith Frederickfburg an
Sclir. William, Lowe, Newburyport ta
C apt. Whitefield left at Dominica the Barque •
Mercury, Famham, of Bath, Kennekeck. who C<l
had bten taken by a French privateer and re
taken by art English frigate: and expeiled to
fail with the convoy .• also the Scfcr. Willing
Maid, Lombard, from Boston, to fail with con
voy.
Pojlon, June rB.
Arrived, brig George, Rust, 40 days from
Gibraltar. Captain Wells failed several days
before for this pert. The Ann of Boston, from cf
India, failed for Smyrna, a f-w days before,
Lat. 31, long. 14, fptkc brig Eliza, 5 days from n '
Cadiz. June 11, lat. 44, 13, long 14 spoke
snow PheHix, Smith, 12 days from Salem for T
Bilboa. June 2i, lat. 43, long. 62-fmoke snow of
Sally, fiom Liverpool for Boston. June 22, lat. fu;
42. 39, long. 67 spoke a schooner from Li(bon cu
for Marblehead, ce
NEW THEATRE. a
TH E public arc rdpe&fally informed, that j .
rhe Entertainments of the New Theatre wiii re-
commence
On WEDNESDAY Evening, July 5, p
With a Dramatic Trifle, in one aA, called,
Seeing is believing. il!!
After-which, an Hiftorica! Play N called
COLUMBUS.
Or, a World difcovcrcd.
To which wiH be added, a Pantomime Ballet
Dance (compofpd by Mr. Byrne) called
Dermot and Kathleen.
Bex, one dollar twenty five cents—Pit, seven
eights of a dollar—and Gallery half a dollar. p
she doors of the Theatre will be open at fix
o'clock, and the curtain rife at seven precisely.
Bufli Hill.
THE Public are informeTtKst tlie"
Gardens will be open
Thursday Evening, 6th, and Saturday, Bth £*
J"ly> ' and
With a Concert of Vocal and inflrumcntal Mu- to f
fie, after the Planner of the public gardens, Paris, fijb
London, etc. hea
Voca[ Fcrfarmcrs— Messrs. DarLey, fen. DaR- use
liv, jun. Bates, and Miss Bro/idh.crjt. roo
Ihjlrvmentat.—McfTrs. Hopefield, Wolte,Mucke, wit
Hcman, Brooke, Shetky, Petit, Oznablutb, Morel, be
Declary, etc. Orgoniji-—Mr. B.Carr. ■ 1
Admittance half a dollar.
The Gardens to be opened,it fix o'clock, and the
Concert to begin at seven. •'
Tickets to-be r ;ul and fioxes to be taken at T
Mr. Carr-'s Mnfif-fl Of, Msrket-fltett deni
N B. Tickets of genial admittaiCe for the Tea / fix r
fen to be had for twelvi dojiars each, at the bar orl ers ;
ihe fiufli-lfill'tsvcrß. |
■ ,U, • - I
>bs-'
j "LANDING
tiOm on board fehooner Daphne, captain
G. VV. Motfe, from HtipanioLi,
•>l,OQ*3 vvtv Sugar,
at a 53> 00 ° CofFcc
sri- FOA SALE BY
'S ht _ F. COPPINGER,
3li h s ' iNo. 221, South Front-llrcet,
nev /m Wl '° I,as aif ° on hand »
Claret in hhds. and cases
fier io€
rca- A quantity of Eriftol Bottles
:he A cafe of Cambrics
Cloths and Caifimeres.
J lll ys- • , d 6;.
wo IamDIN G, t
ap. At Walnut-flrect wharf, from on bond (hip Man
tile chewer, Ber.j. She'well. mailer, from Bcurceuuf
le'h Botlrdeauz Brandy
31 Old Claret in hhds.
o! Medoc Wine in cases
l '" bauterne do. do.
For Sale by
ißr> Thomas Murgatroytf,
-■ _ No;. 11, JValnut-Jlreet.
Said Ship for Freight or Charter,
Burthen jgo tons, Philadelphia
" Ve ani * Cc(,ar > wi "
be reac ty to fail in a few days.
Apply as above.
rs, J ul Y 5' mwf
« forsaleT~ '
1 T) RET AGNES in cases
75 U German Checks in do.
1 ° Cambrick
r 5 Plattiilaa
he Oznabrigs
ce Go!d and silver Watches
Window Glass xo by 8
Glafs'Tumblers in cafc9
Lii:feed Oil in casks, &c. &c.
George Pennock,
4 ' 103, High-Street.
u " J u| y 5- 3 aW
Three Hundred Dollars Reward.
le Frida y morning last the office of the Hula
il, KJ dclphia Gazette, fronting on Chefnu-'lreet, -
>y wa " Telonioufljr entered, a deik forced open, and
a caf "> to the amount of Eighty Dollars, in
j e fork, Delaware and Philadelphia notes, taken
j therefr m.
On Saturday night, the fame villain (or some
other, aduated by motives equally d;tcftable) re
turned, and, after forcing; uir lock from the back
f_ door of the office, took from the above mentioned
deik the following notes, «ie.—One New York
0 branch hank note of 100 dollar*; one Baltimore
e r\° f IO dollars; two do - of 5 ; oue bank of
j North America, of 10, jtom through the middle ;
I three 2 dollar and three 1 dollar Colun bia notes ;
I one 1 dollar note of the bank of Marylard, toxn'
through the middle and* a piece of paper pa Red on
the back; a number of Philadelphia notes ; one
halt eagle, and some silver—the whole amounting
to about 170 dollars.
. A number of papers, the utility of which, from
the darkness of the night, the villain was not able
s to perceive, were returned through the channel of
th_- post office this morning.
THREE HUNDRED DOLLARS will be paid
. for the discovery of the perpetrator of the above
robbery, so that he maybe prosecuted to sonviition.
' Office of the Philadelphia Gazette,
1 Ju'y 3. 1797- "•
For Sale,
AN ELEGANT, AND VERY COMMO
DIOUS
I Three-story brick House,
And Lot oj Groufta ibereunirt utlottginv,
IN Arch, above Severnh-ftreet heir.g a high, plca
)ant situation and gocd neighbourhood. The said
, house ij twenty-fix feet in frout by 48 feet in depth
and a piazza twenty feet in depth, and j ttory kitchen
wtthpantries 31 feet in depth, in the piazza there is a
commodious ihir cafe with mahogany ratling, and
there 11 also a lack stair cale., said house isfmifhed
i» a complete and modern fti'e, with marble
chimney pieces, stucco cornice., mahogany doors,
&c. The said lot u 38 i-a leet in bresdth. about
300 feet in depth, and his two fronts ; on said lot
is a brick coach hou:e and liable, well finifhed,
and plaiftered, a pump of good water in the yard,
and about the premises there are many conveniences
too tedious to enumerate. r?
The above property will be fold clear of all in
cumbrances, and the terms of payment Biade cafy to
the purchaser.
For fur*her information apply tto
JOHN EtLIOTT CRESSON, f
No, 144' South Second-Jlreet.
June 9.
For Sale,
At the Office of the Gazette of the United
States, No. 119, Chefnut-ftreet,
i he lafl Report of the late Secretary
of the Treasury; being a brief history of the
state of financial concerns of the United States.
The Proceedings of the Executive
of the United Sfates refpediing the wefiem in
furreiSion : Containing many fads and cir
cumstances no where ell'e to be found. 50
cents.
ihe Letter of Mr. Pickering to
ourminifter in France. 37 1-2 cents.
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United State* for the year
1795-
A tew copies of the volume for 1794 may be
had to complete setts.
D'lvernois' account of the Revo
lution in Geneva. 11 1-1 cents.
Valuable Public Document. -
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
And for 'Sale
At the' Office of the Editor ofthe Gazette of the
United States,
No. jig Chefnut-Street,
[PKICI OKI BOLLAR AND FIFTV CENTS]
A FEW COP I£ S QF THE
Receipts and Expenditures
OF THE UNITED STATES,
For the Year 1795, —
"Beingthe Latest Period to which an account
can be made up.
' • February n. 5
—rr- N~~o T I CE. '—
ANY of the citi-ens who may te inclined to ac
commodate Members of Congress with board
and lodging during the nextfeffion, willpleafe
to forward the* address, as soon aspoffible, to the
subscriber, at Congress Hall-Who also wifhesto
hear of feme rea<Jy furmlhcd lodgings, with the
use ot a ki'.cheß. Likewise of a front drawing
room, well fcrmfficj, and two d bed rnom f
with board for a fmail family, in which there will
' be ;w» feivants. THOMAS CLAX I ON
t T«rr .
"- - V
iiauk ox united btates.
1 c DirctSors have this day ueci;,red divi
dend of Sixteen Dollars on ea«h (hare for the lafi
months ; Which v, ill be paid to the Stockhold
ers after the 13th inft.
G. SIMPSON, CaJhUrSamuel & MieXs FlJlier, f
No. 27, Dock-street,
■ita vi' jijt received pet* Habcoc&y from
Bf.I.FAST,
T R.IBH Cambricks, in boxes of 40 pieces
J_ and 80 patches, each sorted up to 9/ l' 1
sterling pev yard.
fhey have also received ,
7-3 & 4-4 Irish Linens Well assorted tl i
Dowlas and Sheetings, fr
which will be fold for ready-money, or (hort 0:
credit, on moderate terms ; together with t<
a general aflortment of Spring Goods as n
ufnal.—-Alfo, •
Hunter's Pipes in boxe3 t ]
An aflortment of Queens' Ware in crates t ;
An aflortment of Glass Ware in calks and f<
crates
T. Crowley, MilEngton, Steel
Cargo & London particular Tenerifte Wines ±
Lisbon Wine of excellent quality '•
Superior Sherij Wines
Patent Sheathing paper.
A few small bales fine Cloths neatly assort
ed, and two bales assorted Flannels, to be l
fold per package.
June 9. 3 taw 6w a
Millinery tloom, I
No. 136 Marlet-Jlrect. '
MISS CHkT&TAL £
TAKES an early opportunity of acquainting (
her Friends that lhe has received by the
VviLLt\M PtNN, a variety of NEW MfL
LINEUY, &e. which (he hopes to be able to |
(hew them in a few days.
May 18 jaot
To be fold,
Thetime of a stout hearty young NEGRO MAN,
who has upwards of four years to lerve. Enquire
at No. 25, Dock-street.
June 13. dtw 1
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for laic by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-ilreet,
Hyson
Hyson Skin ( TEAS
1 rainy Hyion ( '
Imperial J '
April zo. eotf '
A New Work.
PROPOSALS
For printing ar.d publifhtng, by fubferiptioo, The
History of Pennsylvania,
IN North- Amciica, from theorigin»ljnftitution and
fettJement of that province, under the fiiikpropri
etor and governor, William Penn, in &68t» 'till
after the year 1745;
A N IN TRODUCTION
Rtf£e£log the Lifejof w.fENN,
Prior to ihrgi?nt ot that Province, and the Edi
ct SU» Society of the called Quakers; with the
first RisEof the Neighboring colonies,
particuSaily ot WES 1 - NEW JI and the
Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDES ot» DELA
WARE.
To which is added,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE.
And of the general (late, in which it flouriflied,
principally between the years 1760 and 1770, The
w hole including « variety of things, ufelul and in
teretting 10 be known, refpefling that country in early
time, &c. With an ap^endi*.
Written principally between the yeart 1776 and 1780,
By Rcbsrt Proud.
" Pulcfoum cjl bcncfacerc rcipubHca, etiam bcnedictre
hand abjutdvm tfl, vcl pace vclbelfo clarum Jim lictt/'
>al- Catalin.
44 Sed cum picrique arbitrentur res IcUicas majorcs (ft
auam urlanas, mviuendaefl hacopinio."
Cic. Off.
(Fntered according to law.)
*'WILLI AM PENN, the jjreat legislator of the
Quakers, (in Pennfylvnia) had the success of a con
queror, in eftsblifhing and defending bis colony, a
mong favagetribes, wi'boot ever drawing the sword ;
the goodnels of the moil benevolent rulers, in trea
ting hiifubje&s as his own children ; and the tender
nels of an universal father, who opened his arms to
all mankind without diftin&ion o\ fed or party. In
his Republic it was not his religious creed, but per*
lonal merit thai entitled every men:ber ot focieiy to
the prote&ioa aod emolument of the State "
Ejfay on Toleration, by Arthur o*Leary.
' CONDITIONS.
I. This work will be printed in two oftavo vol
umes, neatly bound and letteied, both in (heep and
calf, for toe choice of the fubferibrrs; on paper hmi
lar to that of the conditions, as publijked in the Subjcrip
tion papers.
11. The head of William Penn, handsomely en
graved, will be piefixed to (he firft, and a map or
lkeich of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the
lecowd volume-
Ill* The price to fubferibers will be four dollars
and an half in (heep, and five dollars in calf;—one
dollar to be paid at the time of fubfciibing, two dol
lari 00 the delivery of the fuft. volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery of the second.
IV# When one thoufaud copies are fubferibed
for, the work will be out to press and finiihed with
all convenient expedition.
Subscriptions will, be received by Zachariah Poul
fon, jun Printer, No. 80, Chef»jut-ftreet, and at the
Philadelphia Library in Fifth-ftreet ; by Jfaac Col
lin« Pi inter, aod Joseph James, Merchant, New-
York; by John P. Pieafantsand Giorge W. Field,
Merchants. Baltimore; and by other persons both
in town and country.
Tebruarviß. tu&f
An elegant Houl'e in Arch-itreet.
TO be let and entered on immediately, a large and
elegant House at the corner of Aich and Ninth-street
Thtie are two drawing rooms and one dining room
—the largest is 31 feet by 26—and two are so con
nefted by folding doon at to mike but one. Also,
five bed looms, beside five in the ganer, well fmilb
trt for fervanti. There are stables and a coac house,
with every convenience for a family, l.nqvirc at No.
29, in NonhSeventh-ftreet, or at No. aiß, Arch—
ftreet.
Also to'be rented for the summer season, a small
neat house and garden about 3 1-2 miles from the
citv, with ftablu and coach house. Enquire as above.
June 6. aaw3w
Wanted on Rent, :
WITHIN seven miles of Philadelphia, a
convenient with a Garden, suita
ble for the accommodation of a genieel small fi
niilv, for v hich a fmtable rent will be piven.
Any perfwi having fuel; an one to let, will be
pltnl'ed to leave information of the situation and
terms at No. 43. North Third street.
June il c ° 5t
STICKmX's PATENT ARCH BRIDGE
A NY nrrfon desirous of information refpedf}-
j\ ing this conftt uflion, may ottau it
without application yv. or ovh.
e. wife, to John Stiekney, m.rchantc. V/orcei.
ter, (Maifachufctts) who will make known
the many Idvintages arifinj from th:s m»nnei
of builditttr, and npvn appjica'.ian he v. ill eithet
vend a patent right, or attend perfonr.lly to tu
peril.tend the building, of any
June 10, 1797*
To be foia at Public Vendue, 4
To the htgheft biWtr, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the lign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 25th
day of Oflober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
About seven thousand acres of land,
the propertyof William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Keifter's-tdwn and Westminster,
commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road runs through a conlidarable part of
these lands J the tra«ft begins abotlt miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
of said Reilter's-town, and extends to the dis
tance of abeut twenty-three miles from
more, and lies on the main falls of Patspfico
river, from three to spur miles thereon. Will
I be fold in trafls of or.e hundred and fifty to
three hundred a ve. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each traift,
l'ome of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine grifs.
Also,
A traft of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles oi
Bladenihurg, esteemed very good for Grass. 7
Richard Ponfonby, of Bladenfburgh, will (he w
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
ALSO,
A trad of land of about three hun- ,
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a h*lf of the PreGdent's house in the Fede- £
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high prcfppiJl, from which may be seen the
cify of Wilhington, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-t«wn, arid many miles 1
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfon- ®
by, of Bladenfburg, will also (hew *~is land.
A liberal credit will be given for the greatest
part of the purchase money. The terms will
be made known on the day of sale.
May 8 w.^m
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILDER, Juo. & Co.
No. 8 Chefnut-Street, . 1
Have for Sale I
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly assorted, very low on
(hort credit.
March 6. §
Advertisement.
PURSUANT ta an Order from the Orphans* Court,
'will absolutely be fold at PUBLIC SAI*P. t at
Cranberry, cn lVednefday t tbn doy of Augujl next, at
II » a/i»i> A M % all that valuable REAL ESTA'TE>
late belonging to the Reix. Gilbert 7. Snoiude", dace fed,
lying in and near Cranberry, *« the county tf Atiddlefex,
to-a nJbif> of South Brunpivicly Rate of Mexv Jersey, up
on theloxver flage road leading, from Philadelphia to New
Tori. A very elegant f aHieboufe in a breutful a n d
healthy situation, pair.ted white, with Venetian window
thirty feet front and thirty eight feet diep y two
rooms with a bandfome ball or entry on the firjl floor,
ilree rooms on the second focr and txvo wcll-fnifhed gar
rets. In ih.'rear of the house is an excellent two-flory
building 37 feet hy 19, confining of a dining-room for
work people, spacious pantries and a large kitchen, with
every convenience, and over theft are three chambers for
servants. To the right is an additional building 18 ffet
front by 19 ftet deep, confining of a chambtr below and a
library above —under the whole are very fine cellars paved
with brick and conveniently partitioned. The hoitfe is en
tirely neiv, built in a modern fyle, and completely and e
legantly fnifhed. Every room is bung with bells thai
lead both to tie kitchen and the servants* apartments : there
it a pump of good water in the yard; and a flow and
brick pavement round the whole house, which is enclpf
ed with a handfvme railing, with three gates in front.
The farm confijl, if one hundred and sixty seven acres
with a proportion of woodland and meadow t under excel
lent fence ; a garden with pale fence ; a large ham, /la'
bles, carriage-house, cow-bouses, life, all new, and built
in the be/I manner : with two Orchards, one of 60 full
grown trees, the otb:r is young and thriving, conjifling of
100 bejl grafted fruit trees. }
Nearly adjoining said farm is a lot of Woodland,
of the befi quality y containing 37 acres. Alft a trait of
land within seven miles of Cranberry, and los the Cross
Koadi containing one hundred and fifty acres, tbree~fourths
meadow and the red excellent timber.
This Traft will be fold in lots on Thursday, the 24tb
day of Au?uft following, at II o*clock, A M, on tbc
premises if the weather permits, if not at the house of -
Mr. IVit her ill, Cross Roads.
For further particulars enquire of Nathaniel Hunt, efj.
Cranberry, of Mr. )faac S now den, j an. No. 14! South
Second Street, Philadelphia, or of Mr * Gbarles Snowden
Tontine Coffee-Houfe, New York, or of the fubferibers,
ISAAC SNOWDEN,Princeton 7 ..... ,
JACOB FISHER, Cranterry \ ***&*£>
N. B. Pbe sale cf the above property was aavertized
for the 14 tb inf. but the Adninijlrators were not able to
get the two separate Traits laid out into Lots, and other
• matters arranged, on account of the indisposition of one of
them, it was therefore adjourned to the days above mention•
ed. §*6tmwft.f • June 19-
A Literary Treat.
JuJl publi/hed, handsomely printed on writing
paper, price l dollar,
A new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, entitled
r ' | 'HE FORESTERS, an American Tale j being
: 1 a sequel to the history of John Bull, the Clo
thier—ln aferiesof letters to a friend, with tbead
[ dition of two letters, alluding to recent political
: tranfadions in America.
The following oxtraiS from the Clavis Allegories,
(hews the principal characters that are introduced:
j John Bull, the Kingdom of ingland
1 His Mother, the Cturch of England
HisWifc, the Parliament
His Siller Peg,'the Church of Scotland
c His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom of France
His Mistress, the Old ConftitMtion
, His now Wife, the National Rcprefentatioa
h Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch RepuMic
The Franks, the French Republic
The Forellers, the Un.'ed States of America
Robert Lumber, New-Hampftire
d Jobs Codline, Massachusetts
t. Humphrey Plowlhare, Connecticut
n Roger Carrier, Rhode I (land
1- Peter Bull Frog, New-York
>■ Julius Caesar, New-Jersey
u William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
c > Caffimar, Delaware
3- Walter Pipewood, Virginia
His Grandson, George Washington
.. Peter Pitch, North Carolina
Charles Indigo, foutk Carolina
George Truiiy, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
_ Hunter Loijjjknife, Kentucky
BUcfc C«ttle, Negro Slaves
Rats, Speculators
a Mother Carey's Chickens, Jatokins
a- This popular and entertaining satirical bifto
l- ry cf America is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Eel
n. knap. It basa great (hare of originality and a
je bounds with genuine humour. It is continued
id down to the prefer.t time, and charatfterifes thpfe
late political tranfaCticns which have caused so
much ure if ntl6 in America.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
South Second Stieet, and No. jo, Marke' ftjeet.
Tune 16. §
it j yijl Published,
h- And to be had "of Messrs. Dotfon, Campbell,Rice,
I Cary, and the ether pricipal Booksellers in the
vn city,price one dollar, twn f*- five cents,in boards,
r New Views of the Origin of the
fu- Tribes and Nations of America,
td. By EENJiIvIIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
T ur.c :o. *oc
45)00° pieces of Nankeens
150 boxes brown Havai Hah Sugars
Imperial iiyfonTeas
17 tubs Quick Silver
Sail Canvas, No. 1 & 8
A large alTcirtiient ef Nails, (harp and fiat points
tjueeiis Ware, well assorted in crates and hhds.
London Particular and > ,» j • . &
India Market j Madera U mes
Tenefriflie Wine in hhds. and pipes
Bottled London Porter in tierces
Fine Yellow Faint, dry in caflcs
Writing Slates in bundle*
A box of Ink Stands and Note Profits
Manchester Goods in chests
3 trunks black Sewing Silk
6 tons of Sheet Lead
BelNLiverpoolCoal, arid (
A quantity of Wine Battles
For Sale by
Philip Nicklin, Iff Co.
Juue 14. atawtf (
New Hat and Hosiery Store. j
Jrijl Imported, 3
In the Jhips William Perm and Slar,from Londtn, and -
noio of><nincriy $
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
AT his new Hat aud Hosiery Store, No. 134,
Market street
An elegant assortment ol silk, cotton and thread
Stockings
Silk, cotton and thread Glove 9 f
Pantaloons, &c. Ac.
Likewise, a handsome assortment of men's, wo
men's, and children's fafhionable Hats, fuitablcfor' '
the Season.
A confi'ierable quantity of low and middle priced
Hats assorted in cases, intended for country tlores.
May 13. taw
To Let, \
THE BUILDING now occupied, by the Bank (
or thi United State». For terms en- ,
quire of Edward Garrigues, No. 39, Cherry-ftrset. ,
N. B. Also a large, convenient Cellar in a good ;
situation : Apply as above. ,
June 15 . eotf
C O T T O N.
A few bales iuft arrived, for sale by
JOHN CLARK,
No. j 5 North Water Strett.
June to. « ot f-
Young Hyson I ea.
40 chests of a fupcrior quality—Also,
100 do. of Hyson,
Imported in the IVoodrop Simi, and for sale by
the lubfdribeiß, corner of Second and Pine
street.
C. Haight.
June »i. eo 'f
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street. »
george Davis,
BEING busied for some time past in prepara
tions for removing into his present houfe,has
been under theneceifityof peftponing until this day
informing the gentlemen of the Ear generally thro"
the United States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for sale, on
terms that he trusts will entitle him to the like pre
ference he has experienced for loveral years past.
Catalogues, combining the most varied collec
tion ever imported iato this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
Jane 47. "w 6w
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. Iff P. RICE, Baokfellers,
No. x 6, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the late arrivals Irom
London and Dublin, their spring importa
tion, confiding ef a variety of the latest at d most
approved Law Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the mod extensive cojleiftion ev
er offered for sale in this country. They the 1 efcre
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their
conne&icnsin Dublin, they are enabled to felllrifh
editions (as they have hitherto doi.«) at the very
lowed prices. The following are among the latest
r publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, % tc'j.
Peake's Cases at Nift Prius', Ridgeui ay's Reports
r in the time of Lord Hard* icke ; Floyer'a Proders
Practice in the Ecclcfiadical Courts; Barton's
Trcatife on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Pra&ice of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal Adtions, »
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Ufei ; modern Reports, I % vol'. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rica cxpeft t« receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, the 2d part of Gil
! bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June a 6.
1
Jay's Inftru&ions.
On MONDAT lajl, was pubYtfhed,
By SNOWDEN Cs 1 M'CORKLE,
No. 47, AQrth Fourth Street,
And to be had of the principal BOOKSELLERS,
No. V,
Of the History of the United States
for 179 6,& c.
This and the preceding number present the pub
lic with a copy of Jay's Instructions, a per
formance ahxiouily concealed by the Executive
from the House of Reprtfentatives, and the con
tents of which have excited the most ardent curio
sity.
This number likewise contains some fuigular and
authentic papers relative to Mr. Alexander Hamil
trn, late Secretary of the Treasury. No greater
proof can be given ot the value which he has at
tached to their fipfrtJ/HM, than the following anec
dote.
« During the late canvass for the election of a
" President, Webster, in his Minerva, gavs a hint,
" that Mr. Hamilton would be an advifeable can
" didate. A perfoa in this city, who chanced to
" fee this newspaper, wrote immediately to a cor
" refponder.t in New-York. The letter desired him
" to put liimfclf in Mr- Hamilton's way, and in
" form him, that if Webftir should, in future,print
" a fiugle paragraph 011 that head, the papers refer
3. "Ed to wire, inftantiy, to be laid before the world.
_ « The mejfagc uuai (Miverrd to Mr. Hamilton, and the
M Minerva kecflmejifyit /"
;( j June 24. taW2w
so - This Day is Published,
Aud fold by H. & I. Kammerrr, jun. No.
' 24, North Third-Jlrict,alfo, by Mr. Hen
sr SirsjrzEK, No. 85, Race-Jlreet >
- (Price halt a Dollar neatly bound)
The Man of real Sensibility ;
e ' Or, Tm HJSTOKY OF SIR G. ELLISON.
Foundtd on Fn6l.
' p » e!eg«oi Edition of the Eionents of Moral
C l7y» m tw6 vol*. iHuftrattd with twenty copj cr
pia <:«, may alTo had as abcve ? price, full bound
and gilt, iwo dollars ard fifty cents.
H&I. K junrs. have on htsd a o"tntity cf Ny. 1
and x Wrttijjg Paper.
City oi Wailiington. i
SCHEME i
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwelling-houl'e 40,000 dollars, S
3c calh 30,000, are jo.aoo t
I ditto 15,000 & caSt ij,oo» 40,000 c
1 ditto 15,000 &'ca(h 15,000 30,000 f
I ditto 10,000 & can 10,000 10,000 <
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cafo 5,000 10,000 1
1 cafli prize of 10,000 '
» do. 5/300 each, are ■ 10,000
10 do. i,ono - - 10,00 c
»o do. 500 - - 10,0011
'OO do. 100 - - 10,00 c j
soo do. 50 - 4 - 10,000 j
400 do. 55 - - 10,000
1,006 do. - ao.ooo •
!5,00a do. 10 - 150,000
16,739 Prizes v
33,a6i Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000 '
N. B. Tofavour thofewho may talte a quan- '
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last !
but one : J
And approved notes, securing payment in either '
money or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will '
be received for any number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lettery will afford an elegant specimen of 1
tha private buildings to be ercfted in the City of
Washington—Two beautiful designs are already
feleifted for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; fronvthefe drawings it ispropofed to ered
two centre and 'our corner baildi«gs,as soon as pos
sible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventur«rs, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National UniverCty, to
be erected within the city of Wafhiogton.
■ The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount ol the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Wed & 00. Baltimore; of Feter
Gilraan, Boston ; of John Hepkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Wnlls, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
C. E. Whitlock,
D E NT 1 s r,
RESPECTFULLY inform* the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of Philadelphiaand its vicinity, that he
continues to pciform all operations on the Teeth ; sup
plies the deficiencies of nature with artificial or real.
teeth, in ail the various modes of fixing—Cleans,
files, regulates, extra&s, and fills decayed teeth with
gold or lead, &c. &c. He waits upon Laditsand
Gentlemen at their houfei, and will be happy to re
ceive their commands by note, at Mrs. Finch's, No.
68 north Eighth street, or at his house. next to the
Black. Horse Tavern, on the Frankford road.
Dollars.
Seal and cl «aning 5
Artificial teeth, with enamel, per tooth, 5
Do. in gold sockets or ferews 7
Natural eethwiih ligature* 7
Do. on gold or ivory lockeis, or g*>ld ferews xo
Filing and cu sing away decay—each decay 1
Filling with gold 2
Do. with lead 1
Ectra&ingfio the families who employ him
as drntift) l,
Do. where not employed t
Tooth powder of his own preparing 1
Brushes, best London manufa&ure 25 cents.
Regulating, See. according to the operation.
C. Whitlock will lell the time of a Negro
Man he is honest and fobcr, and has about 5 years
and a half to serve. Enquire as above*
June 15 j s3tthtf
Lancaster, Harrifburg Carlisle }
Shippenjburg and Surtbury
STAGES.
THE public are requciled to take notice, that
the partnership which has far some time fub
fifUd between Mathias Slough of Lancafler, and
William Oeer, is now dissolved: but, not as M.
Slough insinuates to the public without just. cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je6t from M. Slough to W. Gecr, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
' ed necessary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
more circutnftantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal »f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
• Oeer is not perfedlly juftifiable in attaching him
; felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
f urg, or any other place.
No\f from tbe liberal and generous fuppprt the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this bufintl's, Vfilliam Oeer, in conjunction with
Messrs. Relly, Weed and Witmcr, is determined
toprofecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic canpolfibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
■with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
, render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
those wno wish to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
1 George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Marktt Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlide and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
eft bliflied.
For the further accommodation ol the public,
.1 Stage will start every Wednel'day from the house
of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
■ bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from theoce and arrive at Harrifourg
every Saturday, so that passengers deflined lor
r Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon
" d " si " WILLIAM GEER.
a I.ancafter, Jan. 27, 1797-
N. B. This Line of Stages darts from thS
house of William Ferrae, in Lancaster, on every
0 Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
. ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
„ Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrtfburg every Wednef
. day morning, 011 the fame evening arrives at Pa
t trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, sad returns
. from thence on every Thursday : performing the
1 fame routine daily as in Us tour frjm Philadel
phi.l. r mwf
A Cow Stolen
ROM the owner at the corner of Ninth
. and Arch streets. She is a deep red
'• brindle with some white, about ten years
■ old and very gentle. The person who se
cretes her had best turn her out, as, if legal
evidence can be obtained, he may expeft a
rigorous prosecution. TWO DOLLARS
reward will be given to any person who will
I deliver the Cow, or give such evidence a
r- gainst the person keeping her, that he may
d be convifted of the fad. Apply at
Nc. 218] Arch Street.
June g. taw3>»
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY md BROK ,
No. 64 foutU Second flrcct.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the driving advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars eacb, on the lafl day of
drawing.
Check Cooks kept for examination nnd register
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Waihington, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Atfo, tickets forfale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perk omen Bridge lotteries, which will bejin
drawing in the courfeof the summer.
The bufiscfs of a Eroker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &6- &c. tranfafled with the
utmost aitention.
June 2 tu&f
THE FOLLOWING VALUABLE
Tradts of Land,
IN thecouKty of Gtynn and state of GeArgia,.
will be fold by public sale, at eight o'clock
on the evening of Tuefdav the 2'7j:h day ot Jiins
next, at rhe Merchauts'.Coffeejioufe ic this ci
ty, unless pre'vioully difpol'ed of by private file.
ill. 7000 acres on St. Simoos Sound at the
confluence of Frederica and Turtle rivers, ad
joining the commons of the tijwn of Brunfwick,'
originally granted to John Howsll, and withia
6 n.iles of the Atlantic ocean.
2d. 25,000 acres on the head waters of a
branch of the great Sattilla, originally granted
to Ferdinand O'Neal.
3d. 50,000 acres <m the waters of the little
Satilla river, and of Buffaloe and Alexanders
Creeks ; the great Satilla road pafles through
these lands, which were originally granted to
Ferdinand O'Keal.
4th. 50,000 acres on the great Satilla river,
which are also interfered by a branch of the
little Satilla, and were originally grated tsn
Thomas Spalding.
It appears by authentic certificates from
Thomas Davis, surveyor, and from Major
Hopkins now residing in Philadelphia, that tffe
body of these lands are not thirty miles from
the ocean, and principally within tide water ;
that the Alatamaha is navigable for boats and
rafts two hundred miles above, and for large
vefle Is within ten miles of them ; that they ar;
chiefly firft rate pine lands, producing- timber
equal in quality to any in the state of Georgia,
possessing the lime advantages of navigation.
The abovemcntioned certificates, together with
the patents, drafts, andother papers refpefling
the title, which is complete and unincumbered,
are in the poflefiion of the fubferibers and may
be seen by applying to Benjamin R. Morgan, atr"
No. 41 Mulberry Street. The terms of pay
ment will be one third cash, the remaining two
thirds in geod negotiable endor9*d notes, paya
ble in three and fix months after the falea
conveyance to be made to each purchaser on the
payment of that moiety of the notes received
from him which becomes firft due.
THOMAS FITZSIMONS,
JEREMIAH PARKER,
BENJAMINR. MORGAN.
Philadelphia, May 31, 1797. eodtf.
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extraof an a£l passed by the Legislature of
the state of Maryland on the 29th December,
1 79 I > entitled, An ait for erecting a bridge
over Potowmic river.
'• And be it, enabled, that the (aid directors or
any two as them (hall and may require any funj
or sums of money in equal proportion from eacii
and pvery proprietor, as may from time to time
be neceflary for carrying 011 the building of faidt
bridge ; and after giving three months public
notice, it (hill and maybe lawful for the direc
tors to sue for and r«cover in the name of the
company such unpaid requilition, with all coiti
and charges incidental theretft, and legal interclt
thereon from the, time the fame should have
been paid: And the negletf or.refufal to pay any
such reqiiifition after public notice (hall have
been given at least for three mouths in all the
newspapers hei ein before enumerated, (hall have
the efFcd to forfeit all preceding payments made
on the Gore or (hares Jo negledled or refufed to
be paid w the use and benefit of the company."
mation of such of th.» stockholders as have not
complied with the requisitions heretofore made
—they are as follow: On the ift November,
1795> *0 dollars, on the 10th May, 1796, 40
dollars; an the 20th July, 1796, 4odollars ;on
the ift September, 1796, 40 dollars, and on the
i» November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is
now given that after the expiration of the time
limited for the continuance of this advertife
'ment (three months) the law will be carried
into rigid and complete effett against all delin
quents.
By order of the Direfiors,
WALTER SMITH, Tnafurer.
Georgetown, May x, 1797. iawfm
TO BE SOXD7
A valuable three (lory Brick Ho use ;
SITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank of
Pennfyfvar.ia, the lot on which it stands, to
gether with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex
tend: to Goforth-ftreet. The houl'e is about 50
feet in front en Lodge alley, and about 42 feet
in depth, the adding lot is about 96 feet
front on Lodge alley, and 42 feet on Goforth
ftreet, being a street which leads from Chefiiut
ftreet and Carter's *l!ey into Dotk-llreet at the
horse market. The huufe consists of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dinii»g
rooms, one of them forty feet in length, the
other about thirty-four feet, each containing
1 two fire places, two parlours and a latge kit
chen,.with extensive cellars under,
over the whoie, a privilege of a vacant let
; ef ground to the eastward between this hou'e
and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
yard, a handsome piazza fronting the vacant
lot, and a frame (table and dwelling house or.
Goforth-ftreet. The premil'es no r rent for
£.318 per annum. To be fold dearth all in
| cumbrances.
For terms apply to Jebn Clement Stacker.
f JOHN CKAIG~~~-
HAS just imported from Rotterdam* via St.
Thomas, and for file on rej lanabje turn*
' by the package
Platillas Royal
Haerlem and German linens
Rotiehs
Full and Pro Patris Paper
Wafers
Quills k
[ C ziers for Hoops, in Bundles
Coffee i»jgs
He has also far Sale,
1 Best Red Clover Seed
1 Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate life
1 Teneriffe Wine of firft and second Quality
Coffee in Bags and Hogibeads
Jamaica Spirits
Conne£licut Turpentine Soap
Window Glass
Two Trunks of best Pitent, Silk and Cottea
Hosiery
ApU 18. taw