of tije I*
NUMBER -158$ "j
SALES BY (SUCTION.
- Stated Sales
For n r r GOODS.
Foitdnoon—'Edwirrd Fox, No. 561
a r j-, J fotith Fr»nt-ftreet,
' Afjernoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
( South Fivnt ftrert.
(' Forc.ionn - Jfhn Conrw*tlv, Old City
T- f! ..3 .iiiaum, No. 7,f fuutli i'ront-ftreet.
J Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C iS; Higti-ftreet.
. N..„
cn n- ( Forenoon—Edward Fox.
itrfi y I Afterpoon—John Connelly.
P ) Forenoon—Willnm Shannon.
rn ty Afternoon—John Connelly.
■V.7lurdai Afternoon Benfon.
For Freight or Charter;
-*(lv the GOOD IIIUC
C U K E Y,
_ . Isaac \ r-.tleaburg, Master ; j
Myisg at Clifford's wharf, and : n omplsat
order to rtcciye a cargo. For terms plcafe to ap
ply tlirf Captain an boar or
f I John Slyriri,
No. 81, Arch-street.
I WHO HA* FOR SALE,
■ 2000 wt. of double refiried'Saltpetre
boo wt. cf F 9 Gun Powder
300 barrels of Herrings
50 bushels of Timothy Seed
150 cafe'of Claret, firft quality
And a quantity of Wine,
pt 2). 1 dtf t
HAVANNA SUGARS.
FO" 'SALE,
1400 boxes and casts prime white Havan
na SUGARS,
On bpard the ihip llatnburgh Picket, Silas
Swain, Master, now Jyirtfj at Marcus Hook.
For terms, apply to Capt. Swain, on board, to
Capt Samuei. Smith, in Front, near Wal
nut street, or to
Philip Nicilin, & Co.
Who offer the said Ship
Hamburgh Packet
For SALE or CHARTER.
She i i 31 j tons regiller, coppered to the bends,
fails remarkab'y fall, and «an be ready to re
ceive a cargo in a few days.
Sept. ai. diw
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmingtod, Delaware
State, afld now landing fro n on board the
Brig A.3ive, William Williafns Master,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale by
Jehu Hollingfivorth & Co.
Wilmington, Sept.n. dtf
'f-nC N. B. The above Brig,
and the brig GAYOSO, are
Zf a "° " a ' c Gr i:irter » ant '
now ready to receive a cargo
on board it Wilm'ngton Apply a« above.
For Savannah, ,
The fad failing (hip,
SWIFT PACKET,
V' h ifPatrick Oriubin, Master,
Now lying oppofue th? mouth
of Frankford CTreeU; ha« haiidfrror acsoinmodi
tions for paftliiyers, and will fail on or about
the ift of Oiflober.
For freight or paffig* apply to the master on
board, or of the fublcribers Fraaliford, 512
miles frftm Philadelphia
Nawro y y. Frazier.
Frankfrrd, ?/rt. 18. dutto
- Far HAMBURGH,
I—-C, r T I HE Copper Bottomed Ship
j r 'fs s j r F FAVOH IT E, Joe k
Thompson, Miftcr, now at
< V'JJ'j Bright'# wharf, and will be rea
-1 <ljr totake in on Monday next,
I —• part of her cargobeing engaged
jnd reidy to go 011 board. Ihe ship is so well
known, that it is needless to dtferibe her. She
is now in order. For Freight or P.if
lage, please to appN at Mr Jeremiah Warder's
Oompting House. No. 12, North Third flreet,
«'r to the Master pn bord.
Augnft 30.
For SALE,
» On board the said Ship, Swedilh Iron, afTorted
prl lllow aivd Window Demvjohns, Wrap
ri iig Paper for Sugar Refiners, Rugs of I & 2
0 uality. Please to apply as above.
wf&m4w
FOIFSALE,
BRFT AGNES In cases
German Checks in do.
Cambrick \
Flattillas
r . Qznbbrigs , i
Gold ami silver Watches
Window Glass ic by 8
Glass Tumblers in cases
'( Linseed Oil in calks, &c. scc. '
George Pennock,
103, High-Street.
_ July 5- . 3»w
J An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
elegant house at the Corner of Arch jind
'Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
land pnt (lining room—the largest is ,|< feet by
—and two are so conne<£ted by folding doors
as to make but one. Also, sue bed rooms, b'e
fides $ ' n jrarrrt, well finifhed for fervanti.
There are flablcs and a coach house, with evry
convenience for a family- Enquire at No. 29,
in North Seventh street, or at No. 218, Arch
•Street.-
Aug. 15. BAW3W.
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufaflured as usual,
Ginger and Fepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and .Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Burton Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-calk or gallon—suitable
for exportation or home corifumption—
For Sale by
v John Haworth.
NO.9S south Front flreti,]
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, OCTOBER ii, 1707
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
\(lf not before disposed of at private sal%)
ON Fciday, the fi/il of December nextfat fix
o'clock i i ilk* evening, at the Merchants' Cof
fee in Philadelphia. Forty Thoulaixi Nine :
Hundred and Thirty N-ine Huudrrd acres 1 oi LAND,
now or late in the-County of/W.-fhiOgLou, ?»r,d Com- !
movwealth of Pennsylvania, and rt :hc waters of '
Freih ami Wheel i«« Cr-eks a.i.lTen Tviiic Run.—
Thrle Lands arc fertiicand and were
patenteed early in except 3703. as or 1 herea
bouts, which were patented in 1792. One fourth
of the purchase fnoney to be p.ud at the titne of faie,
for the residue a credit of one, two and three months,
Will fce given, on imereft and good fckUtity.
Oftatber 6. 3awtS
To be iSold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private sale)
ON Friday, the si-it day of December, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants-' Coffee
House, in Philadelphia, Twenty Six Thousand Se
van Ku 'd cd and Eighty acres cf L AND, in the
State 6t New-York, between the northern bounds
of Permfylvanw and the >ulquehanr.a, now, or late,
ill the t wnfhips of Hamdeii and Warred, and coun
ty of Montgomery One fourth of the pufchafe
money is to be paid at ih<; time of sale ; for the ie
li-flue a credii of one, two, and thiee months will be
given, ( n intcrcft and good security.
O&o6te 6. gawtS
"The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
r pHl!l Stage ftartu from the GEOp.CE Tavern,
1. at lh>! corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every Turfuai, ThurfJay, and Satur
day. jt 1 o'clock, in the trorr.ing ; arrives at I lo
ver the firft 'iay, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court Huufe the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day t.;e paffengcrs find
a fate and comfortable packet to convey tham to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northsnipgon-'fcirjr,
Tueldiy, l hurfjay and iy, and the
Stigc ftartvfrom this, ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wednesday and Fri lay ;'p«t«up at Snow
Hill the firft night, at Dover the 2d night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening cf the third
day.
Thediftance on this rouy, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk', is Jo miles lets than on any stage route
between tnofe places.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indead. The proprietors |
willingly engage to return the whole fjre to any
passenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he fever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
Anguft 11. dim.eotf.
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the City—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to 19 by 14,
By the fmgle Box or Quantify, may be had at the
(lore of tbe Subscribers, corner of Arch and Front-
Areet.
James C. Sff Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, June 9, *797.
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt. Rhodes, from
Oporto,
Fed Port Wine in pipes,hhds.and quarter cases
Cs cwt. Cork, for sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
July *l. §
VVm.be Landed,
From on board the (hip A&ive, Qapt.Blair,from
2D baks white Ruflia clean Hemp 1
2 cafila Clover Seed
For Safe by
Ihonids Hirman Leaffer,
North Fifth ftriet, No. 34.
Tune 16. s
Young Hyson l ea.
40 chells of a fupeiior quality—Also,
ico do. of Hyson,
Imported in the U r oodrcpSin:s } and for fair by
the fubfdriber, corner of Second' and Pine
ftrect.
C. Height.
Tune 2t. eolf
Cedar Shingles.
r | *HE fuhferiber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar
L Shingles of a superior quality, for sale at 13
dollars psr thousand.
William HaUoivell,
No. 193 North Thirdjlreet.
July 27. eoiit
Imported in the Jh'tp Pigou,
And for ialc by John Mnrjon, No. 116, South
Front-
Hyson
Hyson Skin ( -i-r « n
Tlotmg Hyson' (
Imperial J
April 2a. eotf
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Anifterdam and Hamburg, "and forfait by
B. y J. Bohlen,
A large ajfartment of Jine French Cambrics,
Flatillas Kilfiia indDiitc'h I'ailcloth
Rrittannias ' Writing, poll, and print-
Romnes ing paper
Brown Holland Du ch calf lkini
Checks and liripes ' Prime madder
Ticklenburgs ' Shell'd Barley
Looking glalles
White Iheetings Hollow glass wire
Diaper Slates
Brown rolls Coffee .mills
Umbrellas Brals kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and draw knives
' Black and whitelaces Toysaflorted in boxes
Belt Hollan'd Gin in pipes
London particular ivladqira Wine
July 24. m&thtf
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
■ Ditto ditto Claret \a cases
Just received, and for Bale by
Rundle £3° Leech.
Aucr. 21. . 2awtf
Mrs. • G R A T T A N
INFORMS her friend V-tid the public in general,
that her house, No. 192, Murk-.t-ilreet, will con
'tinue open dtrring the liekncf...
Board and Lodging in a foparate room, ten
dollars, in a double room, eight dpllars.
For the convenience of these gentlcmju -\yho
have not thuir in town, Mrs. Ssattan
will receive gentlemen to dine at half a dollar
a <!;iy. A«gujl 29.—tt
By John Fenno, N a 119 Ctefnut Street:
Choice St. Croix Svif/ar and Rum
CofVe
Madeira ami Tenet !ffo Wine
For sa.'e fcy
Jawrs Xar/f,
N-- •■•JNiI-lii-rct.
js'::,'" ~
PL/4sdt■.iiti, S,.p ?sd, 17 07.
THE Merchants \fctm at this time prefer hav
ing their vbflTrl? and Merchandize entered fcnd
cleared at Cheftcr or Marcus Hocky— are here
by notified, That'in compliance with their de- i
fire, and upon a full convl&pn fh.it the meafare
wiil he mutually beneficial to them apd to the
United States. The collector of the cuiiomshas
made arrangements to cftablilh for fomc time
branches of the custom-house at those places,
where every accommodation in power wil!
be given to the merchants. diw
TO BE SOLD, "
And immediate pofleffion giiwi y
A Convenient well nnilhed Brick Tenement,
with a cook ho fife and other out houses, fitu
atcd in a p'cafant part of',the borough of Wilming
ton, irithe St' te of Delaware—The lot of ground
has forty feet front on Wfft-Oreet,, ~ud extends
through the fquarc to PaAure-ftreet, on which is
a-flable and carriage hotjfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, A\ig. ;o.
Lately Published,
In «ir vol. Bvo (price one dollar in boards) fold
by M ULfAM, YOUNG, corner of Second and
Chcfrur ftrrits;
A Colle&ion of Papers on the fubjeft of
Bifltous Fevers, prevalc-rc in the United
States for a few years pa ft.
GkH-yi'tdhf NOAH >v.
Containing leitiri from t " flars Se; nan, Smith,
Bud, J aylor,Ramlay, Monfon, Reynolds, .Miuii
e.'l.on contagion, &e. Sic.
Wrrt t r y
City Comnijjioners Office,
August 29, 1797.
IN pursuance of an Ordinance of the Select and
Common Councils, passed the lid day ofMay last.
Proposal- in writing will be received hy the City
Coramiffioners for one month from the ill of Sep
tember next, Tor letting to rent on leafca for o»e
year to commence the firfl day of January next, the
following public property of the city—-
The wha' f and landing on Vine Street,
Also on Saflafrav,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Braw Bridge, with
ths Scale and Fi!h Houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (eicept so much
thereof as (Hall be occupied by any buildings erect
ed for the ufc of the Collector of the Tolls, or be
necrflary for the toll-gates.)
Ang. J' * 3tawim.
LOS T, "
ON the PafTyunk Road, betweerrthe Blue Ball
and the city, a fowling Piece, with a brass
barrel and silver fight ; on th£ place oi the butt are
the letters «♦ Jamaka, 99 ' —and oil the barrel
near the lock •• London" and the Tower (lamp.
Whoever will return the Aid piecc v to Johu BcnaarJ,
al the sign of the B'ue Ball on the Paffyunkßoad,
or the office of thi* Gazette, shall receive a reward
of Four French Crowns,
Sept. 12. # 3t
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an ait oT Congrcfs «f the
United States of America, passed at Phila
delphia, the aStli day of May, 1796 ; laying du
tiss'un for the convey,-.nee of pcrfons,
which lhall be kept by Or for :.Sy person, for h"
or her own use, ort<. let ont to hire, or fort the
conveyasce of paflengers, the fcveral duties and
rates following, to wit :
For and upon every Coach, 15 n°'s
upou every Chariot, 13 dels
upon every Pqft. Chariot, 11 dolt,
upon every PoftChaife, I*l dols.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top,
9 do's.
upon ev?ry Coaehee, 9 dpli.
upon other Carriages, having pannelwork
above, with blinds, glasses o: curtains,
9 dols.
upon four Wheeled Carriages, having fra
med polls and cap! urith fleel springs, 6
dots.
upon f<rur wheeled Carriages, with wood
en,<>r iron fprinfsor jacks, 3 dols.
upod Curricles with taps, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with top?, 3 dols.
upon other two Wheel top carriages, jdols.
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or
iron sprints, 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 1 dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed po.lsand '.ops, and reding up
on wooden spars, I dols.
The Collectors of the Revanue for the firft Sur
vey of the Dlflrid of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September n-xt, for
the purpAfe of receiving the duties on Carriages,,at
Germantown; at the houfc'of fjaoid St. Clair.El'q.
in the County' of Montgomery ; and at the houte
of James Chapman, Esq. it; the County of Bucks;
ps which all persons polfefled of fuck Carriages arc
desired to take notice.
NSffice is ali'd-given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors thatlicences w.il bejyant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the busi
ness of retailing of Wines, in a lefa quantity, or
in iefs quantities than thirty gallons—and oue li
cence for carrying on the bufmefs of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than 10 at
the sam? T.me and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorlfed t» grant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeftor of the Revenue of the firft fui
vey of the Diflri«iiof Pe;mfylvania.
Ollice 6f InfptcTtion at ">
Germantow, nth Sc;it. 1797' ~b
rrroßT E D,
In the ihip America, James Ewing, mafUr, from
Hamburgh, ■ '
Brown Hollands
While Platillas
T icklenbirgs
Coarse Linens
'tapes
Looking G'afcs 7 ift cafe<
Glais i'l.nvblers J
FOR SALT- BT
George Pennock.
' Aug* 14. jaw
To be Let, at a moderate Rent,
THE priucipal part of a HOUSE, within a
*■ fti»rr diflanre of
r.-cen occupied for the lafl four months, ccmpf int
of a good ciioing roopi two btdrwoms
and a roo»M. t\v«» r,-, < s , l:i ■
a;u! . nil in e.\ orcer 'fit sHe j
iinsnedfati reception of a fin all family. Noue need
apply buttholi- wh» nre r< fftetfable an< regular.—
Enquire at the office of this Gazette.
October 9. dtf
Mr. L AIL SO N,
WITI! an intention to rendcj* service. and urr!e
reive tnofe Performers, who abic-nce Mr.
Jaymond han thought proper to engage, thmks it
would be wrong in him not to inform tbpfc thar
that it is withou- his approbation, ancj
tfiat toe wilt hot be in 'any way aufwerable for Mr.
cagayemenct.
PHILIPPE LAILSON.
Alexan'ria, Sept. 15, 1797* 6t.
~ THE MAY OiesTOFFIGE
IS KCPT, FOR THE PUFSKWT, .\T /rifE
CITY iIALL,.
„.* e ptj- , t
%he Philadelphia, Atfwn, and ucicriati
M A I L STAG %
rHF. proprietors hev to inform tbe public, thfrt
they Lave ejiahhjhed a Stove On ween f'Lil. ';"e ! p h
a > I
Atfion, Batfh) % Hampton, Speedwell, and I\Jartha Fur-'
?iace f JVaJing Riyer Jlittitig mill and the toivu (f Yach
ert on, in K:>iv yeifty, to go out*' q week, and ate brcvi
ded nitbgeed bcrju, a cowfox t.ible carriage, and a care
ful driver, for tie tpnvcyahce of tbe Tvati,pjJ[ttigers, and
•Kotfs. The St zgrtvill fiiri rvtry Tlhjrffd'y, at ID
o'c.ock, A. hi..fro7l I\ir. Daniel Gvofters 1 vry, and
that night at 'Jr.el Bodine"s* at I.cnvtyoai 'g ; and
en cn Frihy, at 6 o'elotk, JP. Jl<f a, rive at Cit;h £
i>r.:s*s, iiikieper, hi difiaiit ftOii the cjfv 54
nH&9m i f*tt : Atlantic O, anl frttt' we fLnfi Groi/jvjg
Plains 7 u.iles) nvtere are goad ccsorrnndatiom for tra
vellers, ami ivbert are comr.odiovs atidfcfe ft ijfjgt boats
praviJed to convey paffettgers to Capt. iVilHfl'm War-
h-.'ufe, on 'Tucker s Ifl.md, aJjoiniiung tie At
lantic, rvberc are good accommcs.iliot's, and a con*venicrt
place to ha (he ; the J/>Qrtfnan ivbo Xvijoes so regale bimfelf
ikitb fouling atidfjbing, may at t'jis pLiee be highly gra
tified, tbert being at al.rtofi every fee fun of tbe year fowl
aidfjb % in abundance.— Tbe Stage on its return, farts
frotn tbe'aforefaid C. Evans*s in Tyclerton, every Tuef
day, 6 o'clock, A. As. breakfajls at fohn Bodine's, at
IVading River BriJge, lodge that nigft at^Longacoming,
and w at I o'clock, P, JVf. on Wednesday, arrive at tbe
aforefaid Cooper's Ferry. It is presumed that no route cj
an equal dijlance 'will be less expenftve, or fursufb tbe tra
veller ivitb a greater variety of amusement, as be ivill
■not only have a pleasant fail to tbe atlantic from Tucker
ton, but have tbe curyrfity of feeing on tbe road thither a
number of capital furnaces and forges, and one flitting
mill t in complete order, and at ivork ; gentlemen, too, ivbo
are tiuners, or factors, of any of sbe aforefaid iron works,
are solicited to encourage and support this sage (by •which
they can be so id ell accommodated J tbe continuance of ivbich
will much depend on their aid. Tbe rates of passengers
and baggage are as f.llotvs : For a pajjenger from tbe
aforefaid Daniel Cooper's Ferry to Tuckerton, including
14 lb. of baggage, Tivo Dollars ; for way passengers
per mile, Four Cents—l JO lb. of baggage equal to a pas-
Poflage of letters, me%xfpapers, fjfe. will be
agreeably to law.
«iV. B. The mail crojfes from the Old Ferry.
THOMAS JVARDLE & Co.
Tvchrfon, Srflt. 28. Oil. 5. — lair if
To be Sold,
And immediate poflefiion given,
THAT elegant feat,called BLOOMSBUIstY,the
mfiJence of the JateJouK Cox, Efq with a
bout 50 acres of Lancf, jttuate on the Delaware, ex
tending from the mouth ot AJfaiij'iclccreek.'toTren- /
ton f.'rry. The hbnfe is a handsome well
conftru&ed brick buiMing, 50 1 y 40 fcet, contain
ing four roomi cn each floor, with exc. I'.ent cellars,
and a two fiory brick kitchen. Among the out
buiyjintrs nre, a i'.one c,oach house aiid ftabl •$, (uf
j ficief-t t* contain si* carriages ..nd ten foorf'.«, and
| a (lone cow house, upwards of 100 feet in length..
There is also ft one fat-ni house with corn c r ibs,
vv.ggon house, -See. '1 he whole of tl e prcnu
fes pi opoi'ei! to bo told with thir. feat, from their fix
ation and imuttvrinept% arc such as to he worthy
attention of unjr gentlerran wilhinj to retire
from the city. Thrre aic .lfoalnut 25 r.'cr !-
joining the above, which will be d : vided so as to
accommodate the [ urciiafers. Also, 100 acr -s ad
joining the town lets on the eail fide of the iircet
leading from Trenton to I.amberton, which* witl
be fold together or in lot*, as may best-suit the pur
chaler, and 230 acres of woodland, two miles
the above land, whhh vvill also Ije divided if re
quired. The term* of payment will be made easy,
and an indisputable title given. For further parti
culars enquire of Mrs. Cox. No. ?44,South Fourth
flreet, Philadelphia, Johu Stevens, l.fq Hoboc
ken, Mat hi as Barton, Esq. of Lancaster, or the
fubferiber at Trenton.
MASKELL
Trenton, Sept. 25, 1797.
Sept. 30. dtf.
At the Federal Blast.Furnace,
In Carve) —-for Slitting, Platting, and Roll.i.g
M ILLS.
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.,
' TtiEW fttptrtority covjijls in being free from
holes, and honey-co-.nlcd places, isihicb are com
tnor.h found in rollers call tit sand, ( or clay
moulds. These patent rollers are caji in iron
moulds, previoijly heated, ar.d'uiill be found to
be more dense, Jolii and durable than any rollers
heretofore used. Another important adi-ar.tage
they have over otJjfrs, is, that the necks require
m turning, hut are immedaitely ft for use, and
from their Accuracy, run ivitb less J'riKion, and
require less ii-atcr to make then perforin their
<iuork. bey may be had hy application to the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Good
win, or cf .Meps. Thatcher aid Ilavivard
PibUcn, Aug. ;r. Sept. 19. §6t
This Day is Published,
BY Med, Dobfor., Carev, Campbell, Ric f and the
other 3ook(ellers, ** I
Price One Dollar and iwenty-five cents.
Elegant y printed on IVove papery and Hot•
pressed.
By Jolin Thompson,
A COMPAR VUVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the fevera) States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
claflirig together their most important ■ provisions, i
under the several heads cf adnainiftraticn \ with
Notes andObfei'vatiotis.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South- Carotin<i 9
L L. D and member of the Corigrcfs of the
United States.
Dedicated to fhr* People of the United States.
N. B. A few Cppi'S pr.iiit«d or. an inferior pa- .
per, at 3-4thsof a dolicr.
February i ' aiwf
Thomas Herman Li.uffeu,
North Fifth foert, coiner cf Kdrth alley, No. 34,
(4>S FOR SALE, 1
rcA Boardcjus jii cad sand
1 j
W f v e ia eafcs *
' icli'rnburp
RufTu Sail Clcths
iiavius Duck
Bag Linen
Heflians
Diaper and Table CJotfc
Empty l?. c s . ,
Cofeftiou German CJc;h
in affcrtment of blac* coloured Ribboq#
Fine German I.acep
A bout twelve tons F.ulTja clean, Hemp
Clover .Seed
Italian Soup, rn fmajiiitfxos, for family use
Window GTM'i'. ug; '29 -—itvr
'l'm* DAY WAS'"VUau>H]iD, ~
And for Olc !;y 7IJBMa'S JjOSSQA*, at the
Stone Moult, No. 41, south Second fireet,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, "IHK JUVENILE BUDGET OPEN I'D.
Confiding cl 3 variety of MHbcnajni cms PLces for
the Iti&rud ion and riv.ufcment of YOUNG i?J.*EL
SON.n—.Six Volumes 1 undfomdy printed and bound
up in two volumes, t*riee Two Doilaj'fr.
J he varijty and excellence of these pieces are
fitch, that the book i;ted? f only to be known to be
un.ivcfally efieepn-. d one oi the ma.'l valuably pub
lications til t can be put into t!.c ul young;
par fens, .
44 Ctoghtfnl tafe to rear the tender thought.
To teach the youtig idea how t - ihoos.
To nour tf.e frelh- irftrudion e'ei" the mind.
To breafhc ailivening fpir-it, ndjLoJi*
The purpcl'o in thegjjj* wg bread."
T uoysoN.
Agju# zu r . ... <Vv
"TITIS'D VIS PUBLISHED.,
By TBOA'/AS DQ&SON, at the -tone Houfc,
No. 41, south Second ft feet,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Young Ladies > on improving and jn
tereUih# fubfe <&«/
Tranflated'from tbe Dutch of Madame dc CamUn
with and improvements,
Printed tn fine paper, and neatly bound,
Price one t/oliar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales ©f extraordinary or of desperate or
artful villainy, which <l harrow up -thq foul," and
which it wouJd be lor the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward to fc
licit notice, where in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, becaufs
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
cbaraEkr is exhibited in an int<* reft in'g point of view,
and presents example! of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publilher was fomuch pleafedwith the per**
sal, that he was persuaded be fliould do a pleasing
service to the community by fending it in o circu
lation. August 14 —mw4w
To Master s and Pilots bringing np VeJJek
from Foreign Ports to this City.
W TTitreasfundry infringements have lately been
V V made on the laws of this ttate for the pre
venting pestilential or infectious difeafGs, either
from ,ignorance or inattentios thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to pubiifh the following ex
tract* from the laws of 22(1 April, 1794, ;th a
Bth fedions.
HEALTH-OFFICE. *
June 6th, X 794.-
Extract of an a 3 for ft caring the. city unit ptrt
of Philadelphia ftbm the introduction cf pefli
lentialand contagious difoafes.
Sect. 7. And be it further, enaded, that every
matter or captain of*ny Ihip or veflel coming from
few (veiTels adually employed in the coasting trace
excepted) and bound to s3y port or place v/ithia
the junfbdion of Pennfylvania,fhall iaule his ihip
or veflel to be brought toanchoi\or ptksrwiie (lay,
e i in the (Ire: mof the river Delaware, oppsfit# to
the Health-Office on ttcau-Ifhnd aforcfaid, and
there to remain until he shall have uuly obtained a
certificate -or bill of heat h from the SUfident Fhy
lician. And ii, prcviyufly to obtaining fiich certi
ficate or bill of'hca.th, any master or captain lhaU,
fufTer hislflip or vtflel to' approach nearer than the
said Mealth-Offfce to the city of Philadelphia, or
fhftll land, cause orfufFer to be landed, cr brought
on (hore, at any place or port within this Com
monwealth, or at any othar port or place,,yvith the
intetu oi being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any person or persons, or ar.y wares or Mer
chandize, or, if after receiving such bill of health
or certificate, he shall hcjykA or rofufe tadeliver
the fam** to the Hcalth-OUicer, such matter or cap
tain stall forfeit at>n p y, for each and every such
cfG:nce, thefumof five kumdred dollars.
And the captain or matter cf every flup or ves
sel (ball fend a fafe and ccmmodipus boat •* bring
the phyftcian on board, and fnall in like manner
conv. y him. back to the Health-Office, after lie hat
concluded his official exahiipation ; And while he
is making such or in rase any fubfe*
quent examination by the Heahh Otticer or Con
sulting Phyficinn, agreeably to the d reilions of
this ad, the matter or c :ptain fhali expose cr cauie
'to beexpofedto thefearch of the.Rcfident Phyfi
cian,or of the Hcaltn Officer and Consulting
cian (as the cafe may be) each and every part of tha
ship or veflel, and fliail present to view cack
and eTcry person cr perfor.s on board thereof, and
and shall also true and fatisfadory anfwtrs mak«
to all such questions as the Resident Phyftcian, &c.
at the time of examination shall cfk relative to th«
heakhoi any port or place fr-fpi which the fliip or
veflel failed, or has iince touched at—the dumber
of peirfons on board when the ihip or refit! entered
on her voyage —the number of persons that hare,
fruce been laiVdcd or taken on board, and when
und whererefpedively—what i 'pt'rf9Es on board—*
f they have been during or fijali, at
the time of examination, beinfeded with any pet
tilential or difeale—and What is the pro
lent ttate and condition cf the perlons 0/1
with refped to tiieji* health cr diseases. And ii k
any matter or captain shall iefufe to expose as aftore
aid, to theTearchof any of the ofhccrs'aforciaid,
n if he shall conceal any Jich person, or in any other rnaJtr;
l'sr dec Ave the proper officers aforefald in Is at;/icers y
. ueh captain or mailer, for every such off once, shall
forfeit and pay the sum of five pofc
laAs.
Sect. 8. Ami if aay nerfon or perfoitfi whatso
ever ~(the Resident >kc. excepted), shall
on board any vefTel, before the mailer thtreo®
has received a certificate of Keajck in the
direded, every person so ofTv nding, si.ail pay
11m of ONE HONORED DOLLARS
IT bci: a £ abfolistely neceflary that the foregoing
fedioff-?jfhould be pnndualiy complied wit , ri*3
fubferiber, in compliance with his duty, mutt ex
ad a rigorous obilrvatiee of the fame, or cli'e be
indi~ tri w nctciiity of put ting'the laws in force.
W#fi; ALX-EN, Health Officer-of th*
I'trt tf r!.iUd<'pb ':c!.
July 14-
[\l ; 'ciuMr. XII,%i )Z [
/ ' —• ,
PI)!LADEL PH IA , I
EVENING, Octodfr it. i
Ff/r tbi Gazettk of tic Un-itkd States. 1
Pialndtlphia, ofiller 17§7* c
Mi. B. WYNKQO P.
(Gonti'iii'd from yeflerdat's Cup t'e. 1
By this ftatetjient it appears, thi't the {
eolfee was thrown into the dock and not 1
upon the wnarf, as itated by Dr. Riifh ; >
and I know from perfru.' inflection, that
the dock into wliieh the damaged coffee was ! J
t!hro,wn was always covered at fl«»d tide ; 1
hence any effluvia mud have been prevented t
from riling iiom that source. That no <
morbid effects were produced by that fold <
on the wh?vf. is evident from all the enfes :
which occurred for the fir ft two weekj being
confined to one* neighbourhood, or to per- <
fot»"> who ha-d intercourse with the inhabit- 1
ants of that neighbourhood
If the {vlge water could Haye given n'fe ]
■to the ditefe, no commercial city would 1
t'ver life free from it in the fifmmer season.
To the argument offet-ed in support of :
, the effluvia frrym the damaged coffee pro
ducing the dife?fe, becaiife the failore were
indifpo'fed while clearing the hold, it may
be replied that their indispositions were too
mild n; ' -f too (liort duration, to give
fi.yport to iwch an opinion.
1 we learn from the writings of the ex-
Lind and Blanc, that it is com
mon for people to be made giddy and ij'rk
by the effluvia from putrid bilge water,
and that the gases generated in the eonfined 1
holds of fiftU mips, from, whence frelh air
bail been.long excluded, has, like the fixed
air of fermenting liquwrs, occafipned in,
fiat death to perform incautioufi.y or fud
dfilly exposed to it, before the holds have
been ventilated or exposed to the aceVfx /if
frefn air; but there is no mention hi either
of these authors, or in any others shnt
have come to my knowledge, where they
have occasioned a fever even of the mil deft
kind, much 'ess a malignant and contagious
fever. The effluvia which arise from putrid
coffee are precisely the fame as those which
arise from putrid .grafj and other herbs,
from the leaves and hark of plants aud trees,
ami from almpft every other kind of jiptrid
Vegetable: hence, if the effluvia of putrid
coffee ever produces any kind of fever, it
mttft produce the fame kind as other putrid
Vegetables '; but the effluvia ot other putrid
vegetables never produce any fever but ore
of an mtermittiiig kind, which are never
eonfagfeus, of which the remitting fever,
whether r.ccorrpr.oi<d with bilious evacua
tion* or not, is only a variety, rendered
"flS&rcnt only by the difference of the con
iKtutions or condition of the persons affect
ed by the a£ting cause ; that is, if the cause
operate upon a patient with a phlogistic or
inflammatory diathesis, the fever will 'be
accompanied with inflammatory symptoms,
'.and the remissions will be obfeure so leng as
-{hat diathe()B continues. When it operates
upon «i patient with the opposite. diathesis,
called the nervous or typhus disposition or
constitution, the remiflionS will also be im
perfect, but the increase or recurrence ot
the febrile fymptojjis will also be moderate,
though the danger may be great. The
circumstances fa£ts whiclt have now
been stated, appear fufficient to convince
every impartial enquirer, that a disease of
so malignant a nature as that which occasi
oned such mortality in 1793, could not
arise from the effluvia of damaged coffee or
any other vegetable substance. If tc these
■K e add that such a disease wps never known
'to' be in Philadelphia, or any
other part of the United States of Ame
rica before, hot had altvays been introduced,
when it did occur, by vessels from the Weft
Indies, though the seasons had frequently
been as hot apd dry,'and some more so,
and the streets more replete with putrid ve
getable matter than in 1793. And if we
compare its leading and charafteriftic symp
toms with those of the bilious remitting
fever in its most equivocal and dangerous
I form, as well as with the observations of
all the physicians that have written express
ly on the fubjeft, together with the causes
which give rife to other ceintagiou!' fevers v
110 person acquainted with medical history,
and qualified to discern the connection be
tween cause and effett, can hesitate in be
lieving that the disease never has originated
\ in Philadelphia, nor ever can be occasioned
by putrid vegetable effluvia, but is always,
imported by vessels with sick pevfons or in
fedted goods on board.
(To be continued.)
, Fron th NEWARK GAZETTE.
Mr. Woods,
I have with pain observed in a confpicu
oua place of the CentiWl of Freedom of
last week, under the .New York head, a
statement intimating that gan. Wilkinfon
had arbitrarily proclaimed military law at
D'Etroit, which had excited great discon
tents, and eaufed tbe merchants and others
to remove to the oppoiite fide of tne Strait.
It is to be lamented that there are to be
found among us, persons base enough to
invent and publifll every fpecits of report
that can pruHbly bring injo disgrace either
our government or its officers. Lut as
there are fueh, it is our duty to defeat their
nefarious policy, b"y detesting and expofmg
them, when in our power.
Having kft D'Etroit iii July last, I feci
myftjlf authorised to contradict the above
statement, and affureyou that it is in'pare
iibfolutely falfe. Admitting it to be a fa£t
that the general has proclaimed military
lav, which I think is not improbable;,yet
the' eonclufcn that the proclamation has
produced great discontents, and caused the
merchants ai;d others to leave the place and
form a new settlement on' the .oppose fide
of the river, is altcgether without founua
t,'op. So 'far from military law being un
• por-la#, I can sffure yon, that u a has
been fercctaitiied, it has been dor.s fit the vi
fpeeial inftar.ce and riqusft: of the irthsbi- b
tarits themselves;, I was witness inyTelf to ti
frequent solicitations from the moil refpec- it
table of" the inhabitants, earnestly re que ft- ti
ing the general to adopt the measure ; afid
a petition was actually in circulation before r<
t left that place,' ftjrit ni£ it sex pedietiii y arid b
urging its necrffity- It is pofliblc, how- t;
ever, that there may have been Come who n
were opposed t\> the nieaftire ; yet it is not ti
to be Wondered at, if, in theft, days of re- t :
generation, there are to be found there, as f<
well as here, pevfons who are opposed to g
all government. • t
The sffertiofl, thr.t many of the inhabit- h
antshad, in conference of martial law, form- 1:
ed a new settlement ou the BritiiTi fide of
the strait is equally untrue. In confcquence
of the trtaty bet ween us and Great-Britain, f
eighty-four of the inhabitants of D'Etroit, f
agreeably to that treaty, declared ihemfelres f
British fuhjeels—fhortiy after its ratificati J I
on they formetL the plan of the new fettle- c
ment-above alluded to. In the latter et>4 ot :
August, the / laid out the town on the op- c
polite fide ofthe Strait, about two miles be- i
Jovv D'Etroit ; and on the 4th July last, the i
proprietors call lots for their several places, t
and a£tually commerrcedtheir improvements. c
The frame's of several dwelling houses, as c
well as of a Block house, were befote this :
framed, and ftigulated to be raised in a (hort j t
time.— It is therefore not only a falfe, but '
a cruel assertion, that it was in confcquence '
of the general's inhabitants /
of D'Etroit formed this new settlement
within the Britilh, lines. 1
Among the-».nany reasons that were urged <
in favor of' military law, it was alledged,
that in eonfequence of the sudden change 1
from a rigid and military discipline, to a mild
and lenient eiril administration, crimes of
every species had ertcreafed to_ fueh adegree,
that there was no security of persons or pro
perty. —That by reason of forae ridical de
fe&.in the, new system, or in consequence
of the remiffnefs of the officers, there wes
no adequate remedy }o redress the grievances
complained of. That on account of the
prejudices of many in favor of foreign gov- . 1
ernments and their enmity to their new qne,
added to thelarge assemblage of IndiaS-i that
were continually gathered round the tow»,
and frequently in it, who in eonteauencs of
the secret mitigations ofthe Frenchand Spa- i,
nifti had discovered enmity towards the A
mericans,, the town was in real danger, of
being plundered and pillaged—to prevent j
whjch military law was the only remedy, as
the civil could not exclude the ladian3 from
the town, nor prevent their affeniblage out
of it.—But many even preferred the milita
ry to the civil law from principle—it was a
government they had ever been accustomed
to; under which they aliedged they experi
enced fewer crimes, than under their new
government. Their disputes they urged
were then quicker fettled, with less expeuce,
and generally agreeable to right and justice.
It wai also formally stated to the general,
by Col. Hamtramck the then commandant
of the Post, that under the present law his
garrifop was daily dimini/hing by desertion
being enticed away by the inhabitants.—
That frequent complaints were made of the
excesses which they committed in .town,
which it was impossible for him to prevent
while the inhabitants were permitted to fell
them liquor; an evil the civil law wus ina- 1
dequatc to remedy—that they were in real
danger of an attack and in cafe of an attack,
of a defeat by the Indians, as there were .
frequently five or fix hundred of them in •
the town many of whom had discovered hof-1
tile difpolitions, and who might, ealily un-:
der the present regulations, intoxicate his
garrison and render them an easy prey to
their mereilefs enemies.—ln (hort he ailed- (
ged, that military law was the only method
of preventing the threatened danger and re
dressing the cu:iy evils complained of.
Difpatche's containing these statements
were, on the 7th of July last, forwarded by
the General to'the government, and request
ing orderi on the fubjedt:—lt is therefore
presumable that iflie has proclaimed milita
ry law, he hat not diine.it prematurely, nor
without orders. Before the measure is cen
sured, the above circumstances ought to be
known, and it is believed, thjit when weigh,
cd maturely, they will be fvund fufficient
juftificfitron of its adoption.
Your'a, # B.
Newark, September 3 bth, 179 7.
______
From the NEW-YORK GAZETTE.
Translated for this Gaitette, from a work
entitled " An Eleftor of Paris/' written
and "published at Paris, by COWSIN
JACQUES ; author of several elegant
and much admired prodiiftions on religi
ous, moral, political and fanciful fubjef-ts,
page'l6l. This work is universally and
highly eftcemed and fought after by all
ranks of people, not only at Paris, but in
: the departments.
1 " What do you call RoValift ?
1 " Do you who regret the an
cient regimen ? But, with the exception of
. an handful of anarchiils, interested in the
i prolongation of the revolutionary goyern
. ment, every Frenchman regrets the ancient
order of things. It woujd be ufclefs to dif
, guise any longer this truth, founded in na
s ture atid reason."
" It is, in effeft, very natural and rea
i fonable, to compare the situation in which
• we were, with that in which we are. There
• ts not a iingle honcft man iu France who
docs not make this companion each moment
I in the day—who is not by an irrefiftiblc
; movement forced to maVe it, even when ha
yvifhes it suppressed. Before the revolution
there weie abuses—great abuses ; and the
■ revolution was made to correct those abr.fes ;
to-d»y abuses of every kind are multiplied
; without end. The film which bear
' upon us at present is such, that nothing
[ which eppreffed men under the ancient re
; gimen, is comparable to cur actual situation.
. Every kind of- privation, vexation and calfi
. ttiity desolate us; we cannot make one ftepj
s ] walking on ruius or dead bodies ;
• V \
We cannot look aActtai! «.?» without feeing ir
bl«od or tears. A'flu redly, this fltuation is v.
not eonfoling ; and to force men to prefer o
it to the ancient order of things, would, be tl
to fay to them : »
" We command you to prefer iniquity to si
religious fentituents, crime to virtue, rob- c
bery to honor, pirfidy to good faith, devaf- a
tation and pillage to tranquility and the i
maintenance of property, misery and famine \
to abundance and physical enjoyments, eveiy c
thing that defoTates to every thing that con- c
soles, alitlnVis sbfu'rd, over-dene, extrava- v
gant, perplexing, tyrannical and murderous, f
to all that is jufl, reasonable, confident, mild, \
humane, propitious to innocenre and favora- v
hie to pre'f.rvatidiii" ,
" Who further do you call Royalist,?" i
" Is it the mart of information, the re> J
fleiTting obferverj wiio,. judging of .the pre- <
sent by. pa ft ages, and. feeing faftions -rncef- v
fantly fuceeeding ea«h other, (liould fay to
Jiimfelf: —" If the prtfont regimen engen- <
dcrs'faftions ; if it is in its essence to create <
-them ; if we march without ceasing from I
convulsion to convullion ; if parties succeed- !
ing and destroying each other by turfis, find 1
, in this order of things an eternal aliaieut to
their fury ; it would then be better to be un
der a chief, than to be in a republic ; be
cause a chief is the only means of fuppr&ing
all factions ; because factious rend and dif
traA the bosom of the country, and leeauje
tht people would never he Jmppy m a country al
ways tt prey to patricidal children who tear her
to pieces." ' (
•' But a man who reasons thus would me
rit a civic crown, in Head of deferring perfer
cut ion, becauf/he would be E&uated by a
sacred love of his couhtry, and love of coun
try is what constitutes the good citizen."
REMARKS. •
Friends to liberty, wherever ycrti are, fe
| tioufly weigh the above fctitiments—they
j were written by a man whom you will fee,
. by the quotation bel-w, was once an ardent
advocate for the revolution, which has taken
• pla«e in his courjtry. How much morerea
fon, Amtricr.ns-Trjr.y countrymen —had a
frenchman, who lived under tsie despotism
. of the Grand-Monarque, to wi(h a change
in government than you, who in this land
of liberty, enjoy .every right compatible
v. ith the exigence of social order ? Do not, ,
my fellow-citizens, by complaining of ima
| gitiary, bring upon ypurfelves real oppression.
If you love and with toprelerve liberty, fol
low not blindly the devotees to France—
, they will lead you into the paths qi despo
tism, through their zdtniration of every
thing that is French ; for it mud be evident
to every man of the lead penetration, that
the too long continued and.mnrderous anar
thy which dcfolates France," has opeued the
doc«s of despotism, which the people of that
unhappy country will soon eagerly rush ißto,
to fhdter themselves from a more devasta
ting tornado. Consider the excellence of
your govcrnmept—-the invaluable privileges
you poffefg—the benevolent and rational
laws that have been made to feeuje you in
the unmolested enjoyment of your particular
mode of* religious worship, your property
and reputation. Will you facrifice the cer
tam enjoypicnt of all tbpfe bleHings in the
chimerical hop " of eftaljlilhing a better and
more eligible order of things ? No, the bulk
of you are too enlightened not to fee, and
too honed not to defpifeauy attempts at in
< novation under the specious and
pretexts of exclusive and superior patriotism
and benevolence : a friend to mankind, I
love regulated, rational liberty as the true
source ps human felicity : and view as my
greatest enemy and the decided foe to the
■ t happiuefs of his fe.iow-creatures, him, who,
' continually at. work to undermine thepillari
1; of fecial order, wishes to introduce the de
ttruclive chaos ps anarchy. Americans, ye
['.are mori lit for liberty than any nation on
earth, ye have more of it—for Heaven's
fake do not lose any part by lideuing to the
i fiends who acvife you to your ruin ; remem
■ ber, if you are friends to freedom, that yon
. avoid anarchy—it is the grave of. liberty.
; vSufpeft the man who pretends a furious and
violent attachment to the interests and hap
r pinefs of the people—who is the bully of li
- beity ; look round you and fee the moll
; glaring dcrelittion of principles in the coi\-
. dust of the exclusive patriots of our own
t country. .. Are thpfe the friends o" liberty,
who juftify o» every occafioti the uftivpWs
that have, for'feveral years part, tyrannized
oyer the poor, ignorant, and deluded peo
ple of France, ond in particular, those a
mdng us, who, to a man, haw wi(hed the
i dire&ory and army paid by them, to tri
-1 umph over ihe people and the legislative bo-
J dy, even when the peace and welfare of the
t United States was evidently put in-jeopardy
- by the fucceGs v fcf the former ? When'the
, miniEer of the defpotk king cf SyainJnfult
i ed a,nd abused our virtuous rulers, have not
1 the very men, who three years ago were for
1 giving a death-blow to every Spaniard as the
vile slave of a despot, been the mod zealous
fupporierscf the inttreds and unjust conduft
- of Spain towards the United States ? Do
f not the Jacobins among us, v4sh patricidal
e grin, exult in the qmbarralfments of oureoun
- try from foreigu infultsanddepredationsand
t afcribeto mal-adminiftration what is afenba
- ble only to the wyiknefs of government in
- not having a naval force fufficicnt to proteCl
our immense commerce from the dangers to
- which it is c*puled from every war in £u
h rope? Every dispute among ehe ambitious
e powers of. Europe will prove eqtujily fatal to
u cur iaureils a? the present has
t been,-if wc do rwf haden to command juf
c lice and refptft by an increase of-our powe*.
a —Strengthen your power and you will al
ii ways eiiiure peace, honor, hapcinefs—-f.nd
e cbnliding the management of your affairs
; with generous unfufpiqioUs confidence to
d den of your own choice, cheerfully abide
r ( hy their decifioris. Observe the fiend-like
g conduct of our apostles of anarchy; never
docs any tr.cafure come forward to fecui'e
1. our abroad and our tranquility
1-: at home, but they oppose it with all their
>, mjght, as formißg a barrier to their black de
iigno cf forjenti'ig infurrcftion. See their
infernal exultation at ar.y supposed J p
which our frigates. They are afraid li
of ftrengthaning the arm of government, left fj
their idol anarchy may be crushed and de- in
llroyed, and their horrid views thereby p
fruftrated. You have liberty, my fellow-, o
citizeßS, and may ydu continue to deserve y
.arid enjoy, it, by, detesting"jacobinism and v
its abettors.; they have dug a grave for R- 1 - e
publ'icanifm ill France and so will in Ameri- a
ca if you do not (hew yourselves determined i;
on every occafioh to avoid and despise their li
wiles and villainy.—The author of the fore- ii
going quotation waj otice a friend to inno- g
vujion aud Revolution, as you will find by e
'what follows 5 how he has changed, you v
will fee by the translation above-—thev are
the sentiments of at lead fotir fifths of 'lie v
people of France. Ext rafted from work I
called 11 The C<iii(litufion of the Moon," t
written by Cousin Jacques, page 3. \
" All my works, my known prinV-iples { '
and couduft, which at any time cannot be ! {
charged with incivifm, attell fuffieiciitly that '
tliere are few men, of letter?, who, under e
tue ancient regimen as courage- <
otifly as me, the abuses of despotism,' who I
marked more energetically a tender and fin- ]
cere love for the people, who was mo.e frpit- 1
ten with the charms of true liberty. But 1
were mjudice begins, there liberty ends; t
when law, peace, humanity, even God him- i
felf became causes of condemnation, that '
person mud be deftituto of common lenfe, ]
who could expeft public felicity from sUch ]
an order of things—who could not fee to 1
what refuli they would eventually tend."
Mejfrs. APl.can & Lang,
Every American, whether born or adopt
ed—every friend to the honor and ''nterefts
of his country, who is feelingly alive to in
sults and injuries from any foreign nation
whatever—every firm supporter of the mea
furei of our national administration, particu
larly in their elifpute: r&tih foreign potvers —in
fliort, every honed man who loves true liber
ty, /hould feel a virtuous and patriotic pride
in (hewing hinifelf a decided loe to an aban
doned, despicable and unprincipled fa&ion,
which, for several years pad, havq aliuraed .
al) fnapes, and put in prafiice every vile and
■wicked engine to impede the operation of sll
measures entered into by the mod upright
j and enlightened men iu America. To units
iq supporting our government whaoever it is
involved in disputes with foreign powers—
• to juilifv, rather than criminally condemn e
very dep it takes at fu«h an iutereding pri
■ 113, is a famed principle, aud it cannot be
too often, nor too generally inculcated. We
should not allow ourselves to deliberate a
■ moment, when onr government itfelf
■ insulted and its rights invaded by another
nation—(hould feel a holy impulse to hasten
, without reflexion around itsdandard, and
give it our decided support ; which, in a
f republican institution like ours, forms its
3 only ftreugth. -Should the points in dispute
1 be glaringly impolitic, or eveii unjud, it is
1 bettn to fufTer the momentary reproach or
r inconvenience attached to their temporary 1
' operation, than to incur the certain devaila-.
- ticn which would flow from inviting foreign
: in fun and injury ,by the weakness ocaafiou
-1 ed from disunion among ourfelvw. Every
1 man, who, 011 such occafioris, is heard to
1 jnftify foreign governments or their agents,
- in oppofnion to our own, ought to be brand
b ed with contempt and ignominy, as being
1 delitute of every principle of virtue or pa
l trigtifm. Men of this'damp are " fit for
: treasons, dra?agems, and spoils—their no
ir tions are dark as Erebus—let no such men
e be truded." No ! Americans, they ought
, not to be truded—tlyry are diggings pit for
s your deftruftion we,know the men
- let us watch them betimes, left the evil hour
r come upon us unawares.
n I regret exceedingly that my abilities
s are not equal to my will in the developemgnt
e of the nefarious views of foine patricidal
- men among us, who have organized a fydem
H for the deftruftion of our federal govern- j
. ment—who arc opeuly and secretly at
d work—have their agents and their Funds—
- receive impulsion abroad as well at home—
- eagerly catch hold.of every abuse offered to
I degrade and -vilify onr government by so
- *eigners of every defcriptiou—the vile organ
II of a foreign choatic democracy, as well as
, the representative of the mod despotic king in
s Europe—-and finally, who would fcrvilely
d caress and flatter even the fiends of hell it
-- felf, did they declare themselves inimical to
our virtuous ruler.? and admirable conftitu
e tion !—Aroufe > from your lethargy, my (
i- countrymen! y<t,\vho love order and ration
-- al regulated liberty who are friends to
e the federal govemnierit —who feel a holy
y horror at the daily recital (from the pens of
le humane and enlightened Frenchmen, who
I begin only no\)v to peep out of their dun
it geons) ofthe carnage and devastation cdra
ir mitted by the demons of disorganization and
le anarchy in France ; the furies of infurrec
is tion and antifederalifln are gone forth among
$ ws—and their deadly poison is spread, with
o aftive zeal, by vile, despicable printers in
;d different parts of the'Uivion, amongst whohi,
1- those in N',w-York hold a distinguished rank
id in point of venom, although inferior in point
a- of t dents. Do not fay to yourselves, as is
in too commonly the cafe, that " thej' arc so
tl- despicable and few in number that we do
:o not fear all their BisfcJjinatioiM ; call to
a- your raiad u the iate of unhappy and dcfolate
is France; fee an handfal cf jacobins, having
:o one view—one foul—one centre—i'.flirp the
is govcrnm^rit—,t-»- >ple upbn the inoft sacred
f- rights of the peoplr—dealing ea-ath aua def
?. trQftion to all around. As it is surely
1- much better to profit by<» the miifo.-tunes of
d others than our own, let us encourage the
r3 publication of the pictures of the horrors
o which have marked the Heps of jacobins
ie during the revolutions of France—let our
;e aftive and laborious countrymen use their
;r endeavours to obtain every Frtr.ih account
'e ofthe dreadful reigp hi the nun of blood, and
y transmit' to their countrymen the justly aw
ir fill defcriptiop of that hundred-headed hy
s- dra, anarchy, whose frightful image fliould
ir b.' kept constantly before the eyes of the
people of America. liaft. virtuous a..ri »n,.
lightened Frenchmen J whom heaven has I
spared (or die benefit of the htmiaii race*— ' ]
inspired by truth, who has, for a few yea ft.
part, been chained down by the fell demou»
of democratic tyranny, ye are rtow giving to
yow fellow-creatures of evsry climate, a re
volting but inllruclive lefiun, of the horrid
evils which are to be apprehended in letting
a few mjH get the ul'per hand, who, abus
ing the ("acred names of philautropy and
liberty, have made them subservient to their
infernal views of declaring war, not only a
gainst every thing facrtd among but
even against the Almighty Ruler of the Uni
verse himfelf.
Americans ! do you not observe the con-,
vulfive wrkhinga of the high-priests of jaco
binism among us (our-gaHie American prin
ters) when any accounts are published,
written in France on the crimes of thJir
. " patriots," which, till lately, dared not ap
• pear ? Do they not pointedly fay, they are
" lies," and affect tfo disbelieve them, altho'
ev?ry fpeecb from the direftory and the le
gislative body to e3ch other, proclaim the
horrid iku:jtion of that di ft rafted country ?
Read the mefiage of the directory to .'he
council of five hundred, in answer to the ve- ,
folutionof the council, refpefting ths thw.rch
of the troops within the contlitutiort' lim
its ; in which Carnot, as President, fays ;
" The cmtfe of these proceedings utn the
part of the defenders of the co.untr-;, is to
be attributed to the general alarm Sahi dis
quietude, which for some months pf>V*, have
taken possession of allperfons, has fvc Tcecded
the profound tranquillity that reigned,', and
the general confidence which every wltcri*
prevailed- It is to be attributed to rhe de-V.
falcation of the revenue, w-hich leaves all
parts of the administration in the most de
plorable situation, and deprives, often of
their pay and their subsistence those insn,
who, for years past, have facrificcd their
health and Ihed their blood t'»- fer»e the re
public. It is to be attributed to the nffajft
nafion if the purchasers of the national property,
of the public functionaries, of fh« defenders
of the country—in short, of all those tvbo
Jia-je dared to Jbeta themselves the friends ps
th( rep'illic."
In the foregoing address of Carnot wilt A
be feeh a confirmation of the extrafis from
French authors, which -nave, differtpt
times appeared in the daih £ ettc, a#d
which our anarchiftshav* pretended to doubt
th< authenticity of ; if r<ally believe
thera to be " nonsense and I;es," by calling
on the Editor* of this paper, they will b*
j dircclfd to the person by whom v they were
i tranflated,Who will condescend to ha ve them
Jn civil chapter andverfe in the Fnnch language.
■ i But no, ye furies of sedition ai)d uproar, !
t ftiall fee none of you ; ye are afraid left tlie
i clear unclouded and fplejjidid light of truth
i which is daily appearing, should expose to 1
i open day, the horrid works of darkness com
mitted by your idols, Danton, Robefpierrj,
Marat, Carrier, and a long lift of njoufters,
whu.n you have entbufiaf! ieally and impiotif
' ly ealledreprefeotativescfthe Deity ! V» r hat !
• ' .do you want to keep < truth any longer in
i chains ? Doyoyvvilh the liberty of fneecb
■ £.nd of the press, for another five years to be .
' under the tyrannical awe of democratic an
) arc hical despotism ? i>o, your reign has been
, long enough—the fimc is'at la ft arrivj-d,
- when virtue shall take p'aee.af crime, religion
j of ath<ifm, humanity of iarlari.'y, Morals of <
- debauchery, indujlry a(id commerce of fpccula
r iion and robbery, the arts and fcier.ces of th#
- ile-vajlating, deflrojitig angels of furious detna
-1 cratic ignorance and brutality. The enlight
t eried herqes of insulted huirsaniiy in Franco, '
r who have escaped the rev. lutiouary tornado,
- are now manfully opposing the directory
r Jacobinic attempts to sweep off the faee of
the earth, /every, reminding viftage of civili.
s nation and nfinemeut, by bringing bjick
t the devaflating reign, of the blood hourdf
I of chaos. Heaven grant, in pity toman
n kind, that they may fucceed,in their god
- like exertions ; And, may the industrious 1
t and patriotic part of the United States, a
- vail thenifelves of their falutsry and fraf-mtU
- lie labours to strip anarchy and ir.furre&ion
j of the cmiatle and aliraitive garb in whitk
• ()iir " patrjots" have industriously arrayed
a them, and are still anxious to display tneat
s in, notwithrtanding the horrid, frightfol
II deformity in which every French writer dai
y ly reprefeiits those fell demons trfhuman ft;-_»
- licity. What their views are in wishing I *sjf
3 ftifle and suppress the flood of truth whiah
- the fatal example of France affords, during
y the reign of her jacobins, or apostles of dil
- organization ; imift be glaringly obvious to
o every man of the lead obfervatioti, find oug'at
y ttr'be an objeft of ferious'and timely alarm to
f every friend of order and good government,
0 PATRIOTICUS.
- ——— 1 '' V '— l
i- A meeting of tbe Sc lcfl and Common Coun
j ci!s, is I'e^u'rftcdon Friiay next, a: Jo o'clock,
in the forrnot n, at the Stats-House in the Cilv
of Philadolphii, in nrdeJ to receive the retnrx*
? of tlie E!fi9iort, parfiunt to the I lib feet ion ef
t((t! aift of AfiernMy, Manh-Jjih, 1759.
n WI.LJAM H. TOD,
1, Cink of the Se'efl Connelly
it ed.vvamd j coai.T:,'
t Clerk of the Cpmtnoji Counrii.
I- 0" The ■Pt M ers of the Chy are t*
pub'.iftthe aujve iiivtJUir feveril Gaatttes.
0 Ca..:r
0 7" 1
0 The Managers, Treasurer and PLyitcians.
Oi' the /'ft ij . ''j.Tiia are to a"-» J
e t,* r ui 3? the <ai;i Hof ital (in the sth day uait, ,th&
IKK iOyt i r..' o'clock in rhe afternoon ;-Wtln
e company of F.vans, Konfe rsrpSnter ; Ho
d her't Hlivclo It, a;la2.hr; and WiUiam Steward,
(■_ hlackfmuh, is also requefled. Tiie aoove gentle
tr.eii may be a.Tured, there is not a pcrf n in tlw
\ houfj ili at a fsver of tny kincf,
»t SAMUEL COATES.
e ro mo* 179 V
s "rhe Health-Office
, r Ti? removed to the City-Hall, and is kept opt»
cigKt and day, whera pcrlons having business may
' apply. \Vm. ALLEN, Hcalth-OfHceh
11 Sept. 4. 4tf
d NoriCK r
THE Offices of the IVjjarfniew 'J W;r arc At
the pr»fent removed near to, the Fy'i ps tha Scnyl, »
sl kill, on the Ridge Bo«(j,
te 4.By this day's iVlail.
NEW-YORKroaober 10.
YEI. LOIV FEFER.
We are credibly informed that doftor
David Hofack, of thii city, is at present
engaged in examining the evidences relative
to the introduction of yellow fewer into th is*
country ; and that, contrary to what ha 3
by our lmalth-officer, he 13
in poffedion of uriequivocaf toftimony of it»
importation from abroad—lf true, it will
prove of immense importance jto the mer
cantile interests of this <Sity and country,
Yesterday arrived at Belvidere house, in
this city, his excellency Robert Liftoo,
the British ambassador, his lady andfuite.
His excellency Don De Friere, the Por
tuguese ambassador, and two sons—MM. E'-
galitc, sons of the duke of Orleans, are
• also arrived in this city.
BRIGADE ORDERS.
New-Tori, October 9, '97. !
His excellency the President of the U- |
nited States being hourly expeft'ed in town
from the eastern states, on his way to Phi
ladelphia, brig. gen. Hughes calls on the
companies of grenadiers and in
fantry of the different" battalions of the
brigade, and the companies of horse, to
afierable (at the iignal of the troop beating
through tht ftrecis) in Broad Way, oppo- ;
lite to Trinity church, in order to pay him
clue honors on his arrival. They will be
%j,fter the pommand of col. Morton, aflifted
by major BogerH-The adjutant will come
from the 3d regiment. 1
Col. Morton, on the arrival of the troops
of horse on thi ground, will instantly de
tsch them to gen. Hughes' quarters, at
Hunter's hotel, there to wait his orders. , .
CtfpU Ten Eyck, of the brigade artillery ( I
will, at the above mentioned signal, affcm- |
ble his company at the battery, and fire a :
. federal salute, on notice being given him
of the president's arrival, and do the other
lifual honours. Col. Morton will proceed
with the reft of the troops, as shall be com
municated to him by the brigadier general.
Those officers of the brigade, not de
tached on particular ferriee, who make
it convenient to assemble, mounted, will be
-very acceptable to the brigadier general, on
hi? route to meet the President.
By order,
John Morton, Maj. of Brig.
It having been determined by a large
iiurtiber of eirizens to give an entertainment,
at the city hotel, to the President of the
United States on his arrival in this city
(which is daily expected) the committee of
arrangement have fignified to the 1 major of
brigade, that it would be a desirable cir- ■
cumftance to be joined, in this attention to '
the chief magistrate of our nation, by the
officers of the brigade. For this purpose, '
therefore, fubfeription papers will be open- j
ed by the major of brigade, and left with .
the adjutants of the different regiments ;
and also at his offict, where the adjut'tots I
will be supplied with tickets of admission. i
■ N. B. Notice will be given of the day ,
fixed for the entertainment. r
_ f c
■ t iCl)* On enquiring into the circumstances
mentioned in Saturday's Argus, refpe£ling
the knowledge captain Breath, or the own- r
crs of the ship Brifeis had of the French jo
regulation t'efpe&ing the
I find that the arret of the 2d of March, *'
1797, did not app<?ar in fny paper until the 01
lith of May, and that the Brifeis failed on ~'t
the sth. Having afeertained this fa&, I th
con-eft the error with pleasure, being led "
into it by not critically examining into the >' f
dates, on receiving information that this 'J*
•was a faft. v .
THOMAS GREENLEAF. d«
ty
, Communication. to
'
ITie suggestion, contained in a morning tr.
print, and copipd, with comments of appro
bation in an evening one, that it would be nri
much to our credit if the money fubferibed
sot en entertsimnent in honor of the Presi
dent were collected and remited to Philadel- dn
phia for the fufFeriiig poor,—ls an indirect
ahemj)t of the party utterly unworthy of
being regarded. That the of that
jti|fortunate eity fhouM be affilled by the ; n(!
Citizens of New .Yorkj is a w fentiment that err
meets the approbation of us all—though un- ( ' le
happily active measures have yet been '"' r '
attempted to give it effeft. But,.the intcn
tion of the paragraph alluded to, consider- t he
ing the quarto- where it originated, or the tlie
channel through which it communicated, is al "'
not so much to countenance, as to difcour- co "
age a good aflion. If Cit. Monroe or any
other citizen were the objeft, would such art cou
attempt have, been made? No. But when pen
it is proposed to receive with refpeft the Pre- P ot
fident, —the? man who deserves well of his tlie
country, the Patriot, the tried Statesman, /
—the mod pitiful-artifices are attempted, to V ic.
divert the public attention, by bringing into ticu
sriew the affefling fcenesofa neighouring ci- ta ' c
ty. 'Tis well enough for a hals-starved de- atta .
mocrat to propose this—Poverty, though
willing, can do little—but if that little is
judiciously done, it is well—But tl\e otjeß j conl
of the proposal inferred to, is not what it '
profeffes to be—The Subscribers to-this en
tertairtment will generally be such as can ; uu ,
afford it—and afford something besides, for who
the fufferersat Philadelphia—and it is belie- us
ved, if the paragraphift would be at the tran
pain 9of soliciting donations from the gen- n
tlemen, or if it found* better, Citizens, he fl,e«
would meet with more success than at a he si
feaft in honor of an recalled ambassador, or
other chief of th? Fault finding Party.
*
MIDDLETOWN, (Conn.) Odo. 6. mon
On Tuelday Jail, col. Dana's regiment
of infantry- and col. Lyman's regiment of
cavalry, paraded in this city, and after a . "
fatisfa&ory general review; went through
%>aiiy pleafmg nsilitary manccuvres, and re
tired in the greatest harmony, exulting op lubfc
tiie cf the jjay.
Xljt ([gazette,
Philadelphia,
iftor EVENING, October „.
Se L' , election RETURNS. '
D^ocralU.
Senator.
.* B-njamin R. Morgin Israel llrael
ie 19 *-»ty of Philadelphia goi t j>#
p it| Northern liberties J44
win '94 6 1
ner " Somhwark v *
V Del»pfcrafe County -
» in AJJembly.
ton, George Latimer 9?7 1 hemis Ptoflor 6o<
te. rrancis Gurney 957 Tacb I.awer/wyler 6.-0 •
5 0i- r'S ? ccktl 9"! Benj.miu Say ' 6ao I
Robert Wan 93, M«th.w Lawter 600 j
T f m . : 3 r George Keppjle c 9 g
are Jacob Hiltzheimtr 955 John Porter tr> 4
Sf/e<J/ Council.
Godfrey Haga 81., Stephen Girnrd era 1
Henry Pratt 8 0 g DaviJ J-ckfon cir
I Francis Gurney 80.5 Thomas I .eiper cri I
1 James Read Jacob Uright, fen. 511
Common Council.
>wn L;wrepce Herbert J1321 Wm. Pel'z si
'hi- Matthias sailer i.,ot John Ba-.ker 5,, I
the Jaau.FotJd *BO Ben, l'ayler <ll
in- *>'*";*■ *' J"»- North, jua ),»
the Gideon H. Wells 817 Mic, Bright jrt
Gafpar \V. Morris 817 And. Kennedy *i»
to flomas P.Cope 8,6 Wm. Richards n
ing George Pertnock 816 And. Geyrr. fen- 51c
p Q . j Ehomas Alibone 815 Anthony Ctithbert 311
lim J V° mas P«rker 814 Jas. Sharfwoed <ll
Michael.Kepgtle 814 Ben. F. Bache ; M
, James S.Gox Blj Godfrey C.ebler 509
ted Joseph Hopkiofon 81a lohnHafflein jo 9
me Thomas Greeve. Bro Ben. Hari tfon.fen 500 „
1 Kearney Wharton 810 John Letch A'orth 509 -
Conrad Gerhard 809 Abrm. .Shoemaker (' 9
i George Fox 8 , Jofi.ih W. Gihhs , c »
P 3 ""; 1 s ">. <'> 79<> liliiha Gordon 410
at Joseph Magoffin 795 /
rs. 1 John Rngan 790
-y. I Jonathan PrNao.it, has a large maioritv
■"of votes for Sheriff. ' T
m- 1
i m Total of burials for 24 hours, ending yejler
ier day at noon. cr
. 1 Grown Perlons. ChilJr 11 <if
e<l St. Peer's 1 or ;
Tl- Fit ft Hrefbyterian X o
11. 1 Third Prefbytcrian » O 011
c _ St. Mary's Church x o
, Swedes' t x a £
Germ in I.u-heraii » O ll' f
German RcfqraiuJ 1 o 1
>n Potter's Fi-Id* , , 0
City ffofpitalf 6 o t "
Kenlingtonf I o an
18 2 frc
> e * Fran tit Bettering toufc. f„
t, t Fnm the city lo<
ie t From Camptnun. w0
Ihe number of deaths on the 10th of o<3ob;r, w ' n
J '793. was 93 ' \ inj
3 f ~~~~ a PI
r ®" r readers wilbremember to have ft en fame yet
timefiace, the melancholy account of a murder ftal
committed on hoard a small •vefjfel in Morris me
river by a villain tuha called himfelf Brotun. boi
o letterfrom£ridgetotvn, under date of IVednef- nil;
d°y l"JI) mentions that his trial fame on at that live
plaee the preceding Friday, and that he had & c
I been found guilty, after a patient hearing by fan me:
upright l/nry . The next day was fixed upon are
for pronouncing sentence ; but during that night, lief
the unfortunate wretch found means to bang him- frt'e
f c tf- me;
for
CQMMVNICANTIQ.
A coirefponjint is furTrifed so fee emigrants, fom
rnr.r.y of whom ar»in refpcdaijle situations in lifo, f oui
1 pining the jnf ral enemies of our excellent gov- • 1
, eri.mcnt in tLeir iofiJious and ever unlive endca- IIIC
Vors to effeifl its overthfow and render the virtu- exfl
e ous moo who have hitherto adminiftertd our na- of t
tional affairs obje«2s of p«! lie extcratioo. Surely the]
J rpmati of probity oiid dilcerntnent need wilb any diti,
I (ironget prnof<rf the base and crooks politics us ! .
1 "patriots" than l.ive appeared within this fey !
. years pall. Nr.twith:)an ::i»g the eppofrte difpofr- | ers '
tions into which we have been thrown hy the j thci
thange of circumdance-. in the powers of .Europe I and
v. i h refped to themfelvet and their diff rcnt cur.- f orrr
duS to the peop'e of the Unired States, dill ipar
ty ayiung ns have been uniform in their exertions ou '
to vilify our rulers, avd detach the peepk irom mon
one of the fret tl gove nments on earth. Penpit you
I emigrating from foreign countries generally vent one
. bitter inrcflive. againlt the op; reHions of the gov- f.)(f c
. ernmcnt under which they formerly lived; but bo
1 foor.er do they land in/Vm rica, where no oppref- w " al
fiors cxil>, than many of them rally rounu the v ' e v
ftantiard of diforganizatioti. Docs not such con- ftfllo
■ <itJjSk give t'ie lie to their cumplaints agaiuft the ar- bene
bitraty unjust conduct of the government from
whose perfei uti..ns th y have fled ? Dots not im- Tf
mediate and violent ia out 4 free and ex
cellcnt conftitKti n cliu ly prove that it is more ov- "Hve
ing to themselves than to the tyranny of the gov- shall
ernmentsof Europe, that they can::ot livtc under t ing t
them—an.l that the evil ipirit of dilcon cut and i nece {
insubordination are innite, and have a peraianent ,
reftdence in their brealls :—Goes not then diffatif
taction at the crdcr of tf.ing" itt America prove '' ,e a
the ju.'tice of the fevsrity (if any more exi'tcj than ther
tlie dangercusand urufual of things juiiifiel boun
and utadc iudiJpenfible) exercifeJ tovvai.ds all dif- a JJJ
contented and' roSlefs members of focicty in hu- . ,
rope? For fhanic, enligluen.d and vittu-iSenii u '
grants—Do not be fer;l any longer to give your poses
countenance to the malignant and unprincipled op- per t<
ponents of cur admirable conflitutior. and its fup
potters j thfcy are the tools of the vile agents ot R () ' oe
the unfriendly part of a foreign nation, whose ami T. ,
is to dvflroy your political fiei'dom, and n.akeyou (
f ibfcrviept to their tyrannical an i co'ntributionary j "tor
views immigrants of c\4ry delcri; tion, and par- ! John
ticularly those am org you who have any chum to J Israel
talents or virtue—if you w ifnto have any validity 1 'Pbotl
attached to the rcafons yoti offer lor leaving your j
native country, do not join the apoftl.tot anarchy J
DinuDg us ; if you -rami til thij country to enjoy to i Samu
1 confii!er the danger t» which those inv uuable bkff- j Geor
! inj;s are txpofed from the countenance given to the '
insidious and open calumny daily vomitted forth a- 1 „
yainft the org.insof the public will ami their mea- ! 1 :im "
I'uresH—Repieraher. that to render odious tlie nun ' John
whom a majority, hare appointed to make Jaws tor . Georj
us, is to render the la-.vs del'pifed and j
' trampled on—This is fbc fcr jinn ing of anarchy, ,
and anarchj and dclpotifm lire more nearly ahierl |
thin many oeople iiagiuei (eer«fore, tm grant*, f T*""!
Ihevv yourfnve" the friends of liberty, by joining j
he friends ol order and goo i govu n.r. n . (qmmi i
[A t*u> Vorh Gaxttlc J privat.
*% A Friend to Truth shall appear to- a ,
morrow•
MEDICINE S. eitket
THE Poor who may find it inconvenient, from house
diflanc;, to make ufeof Mr. Hunter's tru y me- j (
ritorlous offer, will be supplied with me«li:,ne— r .
sago, barley, oatmeal, etc. by aprly ng at; he nii>l
lubfcribcr's ftcre, No. 36, Market-flreet- tions c
ROBERT S. STAFFORD. manto
saw CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
From loth to nth Oft. in the t"
Admitted, fnce last renew, °
Donald M'Kenzie, Anthony Steel'j, Dock
street.
: R ii- Thomas Gliffan, do. do.
- Ann Reilly, No. 9, Coombe'» Alley'.
Benjamin Charles', (Indian) Kensington. -
Discharged, finfce lift report.
John Brown," admitted Bth i ift.
588 Mai 7 Lefler, 26th u!t.
67* P°!'y Matthews, 26'fh do.
8 Elizabat'n Fullman, 26th do.
Mary Queen, 25th do.
Died face last report:
when admitted' j
- I Viouatoaamiluon.
er 6.x! Elizabeth Row*-, 7th inft. 2 days
6ob Donald M'Kenzie, 10' th (2-hours) unknown
198 , ® cn j' Charles, (Indian-) (11 hours) do.
• f^4 Remaining last report ro
JI4 Admitted since 4
S If x
i" r 4
5H Discharged r
Died 6 «
'V'.i Remain in Hospital. ( ConN-alefcenti j|
51J m- t i. > 3 1 j
511 01 whom are dangerous.
5 A In erred since last report.
From city and suburbs *' a
«ov«i ji
ji»
.hi Total
511 . Stephen Girard.
509 (Signed) Caleb Lownes.
500 n .. John Connelly.
509 * üblifhed by order'of the Board,
5 f 9 WM. MONTGOMERY,
- Chairman pro tem.
4" w
I lie commissioners for alleviating the dif
orjtv r < tresses of the citizens of Philadelphia, &c.
I o the inhabitants of said city and »'ts vici
t> n ' tr *
'' Permit ns to addrefsiyou nt this awful
crisis, and lay before you a brief statement
Ir.n of the diftrefllrtg situation of our fuffertog
fellow-citizens. It in known to you that
on the firft day of September we accepted
of the appointment fr.,m the governor, to
aft as commissioners for the purpose of re
lieung the indigent, by donation and em
ployment, with the ftipuhtcd sum often
thousand dollars, granted by the Icgiflature ;
and we presume it was generally believed at
that time to be more- than fufficient, arising
from an expectation that the disease would
soon abate, and that our abftnt friends
would return and give employment to those
b-r, whose refouroes were cut off by their leav- 1
ing the city ; but, alas ! how are we dif- 1
appointed in our expeftation, for our «ity )
>me yet continues in the fame desolated gloomy t
der state, and consequently all means of employ- c
■r'u mentfor the industrious mechanic and la- t
vn. bourer are still suspended—Add to this the r
irf- numerous body of-females that procured a J
bat livelihood by waftu'ng, ironing, needle work, 1
ad &c. who are left destitute of their usual J,
pn means of subsistence, besides a number who '
*>on are aged and infirm, that used to obtain re
il, lief from the bounty of their more able
m- friends and relations, as well as many sea
men s wives who depend on the merchant J
part of their husband's monthly pay, and I
who are now deprived of relief from that si
Its, source. In this deplorable situation we d
1 < found not less than three thousand people, d
inclnding children, when we undertook to f:
tu . execute the trust reposed in us, the numb*r si
la - of these have since greatly increased, and la
■'T they still remain in the fame fuffering con- 2
: ' y f dition, with this difference, then they had b;
; the epnfoling refleftion, that the commission- P
f r _ ers had ten thousand dollars ready to meet hi
he their exigencies, but now it is expended ; w
pe and lamentable for us to be obliged to in- rij
K " I form them—" VVe know not where to fend ni
»» )' ou » or what to' advise you to do Our be
m money is gone* We have to acquaint nc
ie you we cannot promise your small pittance wi
w one week longer we feel for you—we th
fnffer with you—we know your distress tei
r _ what can we do ?we can only promise you ou
ie we will make your fituatioo known to our
1- fellow-citizens, and you mutl rely on their on
f-» benevolence.
Friends and fellow-citizens, we
If you mean to give relief through us, we j flu
.. have only to observe that our endeavours to
■- shall be to continue to distribute it accord- lafl
! ln g to your benevolent intentions and their cai
t necelfities. If, op the other hand, it flrotild fgr
. be your pleasure to entrust your monies for
e the above purpose, in the hands of any o- I,c
3 ther set of men, we. shall hold ourselves Joi
i bound to give all and every information or Ph
" aiTiftanee that experience has furnifhed us rig
with, so as to facilitate your laudable pur- : fpr
r poses ; and in either cafe we think it pro- !
■ per to annex our names and places of abode, fail
■ _ THE CITY. ]
Robert Wharton, S. ThinJ street, No. 7Vi
( , Edward Garrigues, Cherry street, No. 39. froi
• j George Krebs, N. Fifth-ftreet, No. 17. J h
• j John James, do. No. 18. f
' , Israel Israel, Corner of Chefnut and Third- bee
] Thomas Savery, N. Fifth street, No. 20. the
1 NORTHERN LIBERTIES. *']
j Samuel Wheeler, Vine street, No. 99. fail
, J John Wagner, Noble street.. g
• George Ingles, New Market street. capi
NORTHERN LIBERTins. Chr
<; Samuel Wheeler, Vine street, No. 99. a lb
! John Wagner, Noble street. Th«
; George Ingles, New market street. Aa'
SOUTH W ARK. F a n
i y am Linnard, South Second street. Th<
j Iwiert M'Mullen, Swanfon street, No. 60. all b
j * This relates to the 10,000 dollars —the si
ccmm'tfficners have yet in hand part of. the Ste'
private donations. mor
[[The printers are requested to insert the S
above as often as convenient,] f a j]
men
At a meeting of a number of refpeftable
citizens of Philadelphia, at the Union school cajt
house in Gerrnanto\y:i, on the 7th Oft. '97 ; S
It was r c Jo!vedthat a committee to consist in a
of nine, be appointed t'o-colleft contribu- ];
tions of the citizens now relideut in Ger- Niei
tnantown and its vicinity and others, for the ras,
!' pyph of* the distress nf f ; . c h «
;n S>. V'- Jr WI O, 'tizen> Who" m-y h.
proper'objefts of relief by Ihe
e S ;PP omtcd I>y the governor ro carry hi
' an t ' le G'.r.fral ATemblv pa.S
ed on the 29th day of August M. .
1 iiat fh.e following uam »d gentlimen- b
n>.- a co7nr,]rtt?e, vi/„
John Dunlap, Robert Hare,
Benjamin Chew, jr. Peter Baynton,
John McCnlloch, Henry Pratt,
Gideon Hill Wells, Thomas Fisher,
William Wiftar.
That the proceedings of the meeting b
ligned by the chairman and fecretarv, ant
pre- published for the information of thtir fel
lion. io\v-citizens.
BENJAMIN CHEW, Chair,
owii Samuel W. Fisher, Sec'ry
[O.
£xtraclof a letter from Trenton, 'O&oter 7.
5° . . °f tcr "'on a meeting was held, offotnt
4 of the citizens of Philadelphia* reft dent here who
- | taking into con/deration the diftreffid condition
54 of many of the inhabitants of Philadelphia at
; this time, nfolvedto open a fubfclr'tphinfor their
8 j relief, and by way of example, 245 dollars
, 10.• ref/bfcriled by thofeprefent ; and more were
- ex P tS 'd, as man* of the living
here were n:t at tlx meeting. A like nuafure,
"""'H take place at Lamhrton, and
4 Morrifville, opposite this pi -;.'*
3
7 brig Mercury,from Port au Prince, dcfire to
. , render public■ thanks to captain Rockwell, com
mander of said brig,f ur the politcnfs aud hu
manity he J jewed us on the voyage to this port..
Hulings Cowperthwaite,
M. M. I,a Truite,
Daniel Kcighfer.
Philadelphia, Oct., 9,1797.
ic. mar ike i.tst.
ci- v, Po/tT of Philadbu-hta. \
-,! . . . arrived, DAys .
ful Sh.p Amity, Cooke, Jamaican
rr.t -ing C icero, Rust, Bourdeaux 60!
Hg Schr. Polly, Willis, Alexandria 9
lat _ Arrived at the Fort.
Ed Ship Molly, Hodge, Havanna, come up
t0 n- x. fromChefter.
re- "rig Mercury, Rockwell, Port au PrinCe 17
m * o Ma, "y> andr il'e, Guprnfey 55
en ochr. Experiment, Callender, Havanna 17
e ; Cornwallis, Cutler, Piftit Guave
at Thomas, Wood, Port au Prince 17
'g Hetty, Mason, Havanna 20
!d Sloop Brilliant, Savanßah
ds Driver, , Port au Prince 18
le Capt. Rockwell failedfrom the Mole under
v- eonvoy of the Briti/hfbip Niger, of 20 guns, in
it- company with 45^fail ofveffels bound to different
ty ports m the United States. The following are
ly bound for Philadelphia :fhip Niger,(loaded)-.
y- an English brig called the Jafrn ; afloop, called
a- the Pattern, the former of 14 guns : ship com
ie merce, of Portland ; sloop Driver, ( arrived); j
a fchr. Thomas, (arrived); (hip / nerican ; brig
«, Eagle ;fehoontr Foh, of New-Tork ; and
»1 Jloop Barreit.
10 The following extra ft from the journal of
"- 'he schooner Experiment, from Havanna,
e wai handed us by capt. James Callender.
1- Sueday, 24th September, in lat. 30, o,
1 ,,0 ff- 79» °°i W. spoke the schooner
d Bet fey, of New-York, James Fisher, mailer,
it from Jamaica, bound to New-York, out 14
e days, all well, fails and rigging in bad con
r, dition. Same day spoke (hip Ann aud Su- ■
0 fan, of New-York, Richard Weft, matter, 1
r from the Lay of Honduras, bound to Phi- [ <
1 ladelpbia, out 16 days, all well. On the!:
- 27th. in Ijt. 41, 3.0, N. laying to undfr ' <
J hare poles, in a severe gale, a little after 4,/ t
- P. M. the Experiment was struck with a 1
t hurricane, wind nearly round t!ie compass, f
; which threw her on her beam endc ; (lie i F
- righted three times, but went over again im. i a
1 mediately ; some time pall five, found her ! t
begin to log with the water that Was in her, I p
: not having been able to get the pumps to j £
v-ork ; the boats and companion laying in {
: the water, cut away the mainmad, ijon as- P
ter file righted ; in righting the boats tore ri
out the ring bolt to which they were fvvifted a:
the sea brought the binnacle and part of C
one hen-coop, which had floated off tlie /
deck, on board again. For some time after fc
we had got before the wind, we frared we pi
j Ihould be forced to cut away the foremaft, tc
to keep from going down end forenoft. It B
lasted near three hours. After the hurri- d;
cane had abated, it continued a ftjong gale hi
for two days. ° S,
Oftober I, in 13 fathoms, off Cape- C
I.ookoilt (hoal, spoke the schooner Minerva, F;
Joseph Gill, matter, from Jamaica, beund to PI
Philadelphia, out 20 days, all well, fails and
j r 'gg ,n g ' n a bad state and Iris foremaft pr
j 'pi ling. • ra
! Saw several other vessels since with their dr
fails down to repair. an
Left in the Havanna brig Liberty, capt. Ed
Thomas Lilhbridgt, to fail in three weeks, a
from the 18th of September, on which day vo
X failed. 7 th;
Schooner Dick Gardner, Lillibridge, had br
been taken by the Engiifli and retaken Ly «y
the Spaniards. ' th.
The fliip Rebecca, captain M'Kever, to Fr
fail in three or four weeks. flic
Ship Aclive, captain Perry ; sloop Mary, Br
captain John Smith ; snow ——, captain -th<
Christie ; schooner Telegraph, capt. Curry, Sti
a fbip owned by Mr. P. Blight, from St. the
Thomas, name unknown ; brig Sally, capt. th(
Aayea, to fail in about three weeks; brig 22
Fame, capt. Knox, just arrived from St. Be
Thomas ; brig Pomofia, captain Crotchet; lat
all belonging to Philadelphia. fpe
Ship Caroline, of Philadelphia, captain Ne
Stewart, to fail in 10 or 12 days for Balti- all
more.
Ship Charles, of and for Baltimore, to wa
iail in two or three days ; schooner Experi- ing
ment, captain Knap, of Baltimore; brig the
, captain Gardner, and brig Abeona, —'
captain Ifaacs,-cf do. Ed
Ship Circumnavigator, of Bolton, to fail reg
in a few'days for Bdlon.
Brig Aurora, of New-York, captain fro
Niciialas Vinctnt, from the Bay of Hondu- frij
ras, Bound to Niw-Yorrk, carried'inbv tb: pal
Do'-k
* *• • ' • ' .V ■ •
■n "French,, vefk! and cargo,. MMieo-W f O M
!? * or scof co rrlili A
"?'* u, " Jtr '"'•hcrvnTj-U, too tedious to men
> ' 0:1. . . <
pag"- Veffe:.s_ that the x Spaniards' clear, tli«
I rencb bring h again and cdwde;mv. Thc>r
Ji-bc intention ferns ta be to distress us as mu-h.
as the E >©s.
Capt. Chriftir, of the snow Cleopatra,
javeo 2: 0 ft he Indofhn privateer's crew,
ft', i-emgf wnecketi. The next day they
look his long boat from him and went to
New Prov:d-noe, being in the old flraights
J ' ,e Aiahamti, where (he wrecked;
Niw York, Ottober 10.
"3- arrived. Bays
Ship Stfccefs, Miller, St. Thomas _
r. Brig Lydia, Ropes, Gibraltar 6a
Piirebe, Taylor, Martinico 26
La Carolina, , Grenada *7
v Lavmia, , Teneriffe
onie Schr. Greyhound, Scott, Havanna i >
who l ittle John, King, Cape N. Mole 14,
Hon Lucretia, Bartram, Grenada, (Turk's
' at Island)
heir Frances, Frtderickfcurgh _ N
fan Penphas, (wrecked) t,Jamaica _
jere Rachel, Swift, Baltimore ir
W Greyhound, Scott, Havannah 23
. Suitbury Packet, Aux-Cayes 28
3 i , ravorite Elly, , Virginia
I Sloop Sally, , Richmond
I Tllis morning arrived fchr. Little John,
the , capt. H. King, 14 days frqm C. N. Mole :
€to . Ik informs, that he left Port-au-Ftince
T' Stpt - w ' tVl "9 fail of veffeh, bound to
hu- different parts of America, under convoy of
ft; P *%e, of 20 guus, and brig Jaloti
ot 12 guns, with cargoes in for Philadel
phia ; that on the 2 2 d, off the Platform, e
barges came off to board the Jason, (he be,-
ing the Rem mutt vessel j but findirtg her
force returned to the fhoie again j that on
the 23d, part ef the fleet anchored for 12
hours in the Mole, the remainder-layoff and
■s. on, where the brig Na«f .vf Philadelphia,
35 w»s taken by three brigand barges, within
6a i| mile of the fort, which fired several (liot
9 at them to no pnrpofe ; admiral Parker
then sent about 50 men 111 barges after her ;
up the barges had not returned when the fleet
failed. Several American vessels have been
17 earned out of the harbour of the Mole by
55 brigand barges. At 6P. M. feme day left
17 the Mole, was joined by another fleet there,
(tiaking up 29 fail, all bouud to America.
17 Lat. 36, 51, long. 73, io, W. parted with
so our convoy, and fchr. Fox, of New-York. '
Lift of veffela at Gibraltar.
1 8 Sljip Whitcomb of Boston ; brig Marr
W Ann, New York ; Mar)', Philadelphia. '
in A ship arrived the night the brig Lydia
til came out, in 28 day from New-York.
re Before the Lydia failed, news had arriv
): ed at Gibraltar of the failing of a de,tach
rd ment of the British fleet for Teneriffe.
n- Sloop Prudent, Maltbie, is taken and car
),. ried into Havannah— capt. and crew robbed
ig as usual by the Freneh pirates.
id ShipSuccels,'from jPort-au-Prince,is below.
Arrived, fchr. Harmonia, King, from
if Philadelphia, bound to Port-au-Prince, dif.
j, masted in lat. 31, 30, long. 70, in a gale o£
r. wnd- Spoke the sloop Drive, from New
5, York bound to C. Francois, out 5 <iays.
;r Trom the log-book of the brig Swallow - ,
r, Mrrtimer Stoddard, mafier, arrived from
4 A ux-Cayes, in 26 days passage,
1. On the passage from St. Bartholomews to
1- Aux Cayes, on Friday, f ith August, was
•, boirded by a Flinch privateer, ordered mp
-1 on board with my papers, after having ex
e ! aniined them, they mar « d the boat, and
r came on board the brig, examined the hold,
»/' aud aft, the cabin and steerage, lockers, v
• births, and indeed every part of the vessel,
, (tide my watch, opened the trunks, and
; I plundered us of a great many small articles
. , and all the letters, after wfiich, fuffered us
•! to proceed. I required the name of the
, privateer, but they would give me no fatis
-1 j faftion.
Sept. 9, failed from Aux Cayes irv com
! F nn 7 w » th lfll = l>»'g Olive Branch, Capt. Eld
ridge, cf Portsmouth, bound to Baltimore,
and the brig Friendfbip of Portsmouth, Capt
Cutter, bound to Portsmouth—Lest at
Aux Cayes the sloop Sally. Watts, and the
fchr. Harmony, Nichols, both of Philadel
phia, to fail iti a days—a brig belonging
10 Philadelphia, capt. Morris, brig Georgej
Barthtt, of Baltimore, to fail in a few
days. fchr. Fortitude, Davis, of Norfolk,
brig Eliza, White, of New Haven, /loop
Sea Flower, Smith. ,df dp. snow Elizabeth,
Coals, John Ton, of Newburyport, fchr.
Fanhy, Gail:ion, of do. fchr. Peace ftnd
Plenty, Whits,of Billon,to fail in afev/days.
Sept. 17, w'ts boarded by a small Trench
privateer : they informed us they hid that
morning "captured the sloop Geoig?, El
dridge, of Norfolk, bound to the Mole,
and sent her to Gonaives—they also inform
ed us, they, togethtr with three ctSer pr : -
lteers, were waiting for the Englifli con
voy from Port au Prince to the Mole, and
thae one of the privateers had captured the
brig Olive Branch, which failed in cotrpa,
uy with 11s, and ordered her for Cuba, and
that but for the accommodation of thr(!e
French citizens, paffengcrs on board, we
fliould fhsre the fame fate—The Olivj
Branch then iii light, and in company with
the privateer, bearing away for the Old
Streights. They then left us without fur
ther interruption, Sept. 21, parted with
the Friendship for Portsmouth, all well.,
32d. spoke- the brig Dolphin, Salter, from
Beftou to Havannah, opt 25 days, all well,
lat. 26, 12.' Sept 26, lat. 30,' long. 73,
spoke the fchr. Sunbury Packet, Austin of
New-York, from Aux-Cayes to New-York,
all well.
Sept. 26, lat. 31, 22, long. 70,20,
was boarded r>v a French national (hip, hav
ing Santhouax on board, they informed ut
they were bound to the firft port in America
—They tore open all the litters, overhaul
ed all the paper?, and finding every thlhg
regular fuffered us to pass.
The brig Waff.ington, capt. Graham,
from Cork to this port, is taken by a FrencK
frigate andcsrr.'edinto Bcuvdeaux, with
passengers oti board. ,Imported in the ship Manchester,^
BekJAmin SiHewf.ll, Master,
i'rom Bo'iv.ii aux, ,ind for fide by the Inb.fcriher, *
f- n. ji Walnut Street.
ik»:>tdc«ux lirJMidy
Irish market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. J Drawback.
Sautcrue, do. do. j t
1 Tbsmas Alurr'atreyd. '
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter caflcs
•lota do. do.
Pimento in bags
.jcxio bufliels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tutJtstf.
To be fold at Public Vendue,.
To the highest biddtr, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, An the 25th
day of OiSober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
s About lev.n acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of. Philadelphia,
lyirijs I etweei) peiftei's.fown and Weltminllcr,
commonly calltd Little Winehffter, (the turn
jj'te ri>?d runs through a elnfMorable part of
tlljfi lands) the traft begitii about 17 miles
■t'roin Baltimore, within a t'nw Jsandred yards
of fxid UeifterVtown, extends to the d:l- 1
imic.e of about twenty-three milts from Balti
more, and lies on the main falls of Patapfieo
river, from thctc to four miles thereon. Willi
be fold in treelj of one hundred and fifty to
Tlifes acre. There is a large propor-'
tioh of meadow and wood land on each trail,
of them highly improved, with excellent
huildjagS and fine grrfs.
ALSO
A tra& of seven hundred acres of
land, called plover Rtrms, wiihiH five miles of
HladenCnurg, esteemed very gord tor Grass.
Uichird Ponfonby,of Bladeslburgh, will shew
this land to any person inclined ta purchase.
AI.EO, !
A tra& of land oi' about three hun
d/ed and thirty acres, within about two cpile§ ]
ar.d a half |hc Pre§ lent's house in the Fcde- I
ral City. It is nearly ail wood land, and a fine j
h: : ru I
{sty of Wafhing'on, Bladenlburgh, Alesafltlria |
and a part of GeoFge-towr, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard POl l'ou
lvy, of will alio fbew this land.
A liberal ere !t» «ill be given for the greatest
part of the pur* haft nio.tey. . .he terms will
be made known 011 the day of sale.
Ma* 8 _ ' w.?m
! Jult Received,
From Bataviu (via Providence)
a few Boxfsof Spices, confiflirg of ,
Nutmegs, Clovesapd Mace
For lale by
WILLING? & FRANCIS,
Pcnp street.
May 30 d'f
Davis's Lain Book Store,
" No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DA V IS,
BSING buffed for some timejaft in pr para
tions for removing into Ins profent house, has
been undefiheneceifityof poftpr.ninguntil thisday
informi.'g the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro'
the IHi ted States, that his fpriig importation of
law books is now arranged and ready lor (ale, on
terms that he trusts w»U sntKle him to the like pre
freenc. he has eSJi .-icncod for teveral years pall.
Catalogues, combining the molt varied cdllec
tion tvrr imported iato this country, are printed
and wrii be delivered on application.
Jvne ij. 6w
Cily Commijfwners Office,
June Zl, 1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the feleil
and common councils, paired the 2id day of
May 'aft. appointing the c/fy cmTimifiioners,
and preli rising tlitir duties, feflion 9th,
NOTICE IS.HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diilrilts,
<»ch toAieundtr the fuperintendance of one of
the city commiflioners, whois to be individually
feiponfible for the cleanlinels of the fame, antj
are as follow-
DHitriiSl No. t. From the south fide of Ce
dar-llrcet, to the north lide 'if Spruce-street, un
tihc fuperiaterdence of Nathan Boys. v
i. From the north fide of Spruce-ilreet, to
the north fide of \Valnut-flreet, under thefuper
intendence of Roberts.
3. Fromthe north fide of Walnut to thefouth
fide tf H"'(ih-flre*t, under the superintendence ol
Jofcpl'i Claypoole.
4. Frcm the north fide of High-flreet, to the
north fid/- of Mulbe' ry street, under the super
intendence of William Molilder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberry-street to
the north fide of Vine-street, under (he fuper
intiudencc of Nicholas Hicks-
The cleiningof lliglj-ftreet to be in cimrniun.
Ip" A flatc-d meeting of th» city comrmflion
ers is held at the •' >td Comt Iftiufe, in Hi jh
ftrcet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock
Ifuly r 4. eolm
Stafidi for Draymen, &c.
In purjuur.ee of an Ordinance frqm the Select and
Common Couuch, hAt ring date the ltd day of
April, 1797, providing for the appointment of
City Co niirffionerj, sfc. Heel, the isib.
rpHE. following places are fixed upon by the
JL said.City Commiflioners for Stands for
Draymc:t and their Horfet.
In Vine-street, eastward of Front-street, on
both fides.
SalTafras, High,ChefnUt and Walnut-fltreefs,
eaflward ot Front-street, on the no/th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to
Third-street.
Frorit-fireat, east fide from Vme-flreet to
El;iith's alley-
Front-llreet, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's llores, east fide.
Water-street, weft fide from the north end ps
Stamper's or Moori-'s ftorfi to Pine-street.
Penn-ltrect from Pine to Ce Jar-street, weft
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine apd South ftreets,.eift of Frost
street, south Inle.
Dock-ftceet, between Vv r alnnt-ftrett and the
gt£ stone crofiogs, east fide, opposite Georgt
Second-street, between Saffafras and Vine
ftre<ts, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet, eart fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry streets. . , , „
Saffafrai-ftreet, from Third to I'ourth-llreet,
"No rirav or horse to stand within ten feet or
an sSi)i FOR 'I 'CKNEY COACHES.
-Pirie-ftr'eetjtiit-rth' 3de from PovttJi to Fifth
between Chtfnut add Walnut
, Rr ßranch street,' north fids, between Third and
F-oVrii ttteetl, „
r nV T , mwiSciim
July 14*
I A Literary' Treat,
JiiJl pullifiedy handsomely printed on writing
paper, price I dollar, or
A i:ew edition of that popular and entertaining on
work, ijititled v ' f r<
rliE FORESTERS, an Anv.vican Tale ; being .
a f'quel to the hiiiory of John' 'Bull, the Cio- *
thier.— Inaferiesof letters to a friend, with the ad
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political
tranlaiflions m Avfidticz. rh
The following "textraA from the Clavis AlWgorica,
shews the principal ehara&ersi that arc introduced: J ll
John Bull, the Kingdom of England K
Hi-> Mother, the CI urch of England
His Wife, the Par-home:: t "
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland w
Le\vi«, the Kingdom of Franc- /
H.is the Old Cunilitution
x His aew Wife, the National Representation
Lord Strut, the of Spain .
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic H
The Franks, the French Republic
The Foresters, the United States of America
Robert Lumber, New-Hatnpfhire
John Codlfne, Maflachufetts
Humphrey Plow (hare, Connecticut
Roger Carrier, Rhode I Hand
Peter Bull Frog, New-York . j;
Julius New-Jerfey 1
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
Cailimar, Delaware
j Walter k>ipewood, Virginia
Hi» Grandson, George Washington
Peter Pitch, Ntrth Carolina
Charles Indigo, Soufk Carolina
George Trusty, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky '
Black Cattle, Negro Slave* ct
Rats, Speculators tc
Mother Carey's Chtokens, Jacobins
jV*\JThis popular and fYtertainiisgfatiricalhifto
ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel- -
knap, It hasa great (hare of originality and a-
honnds with genuine humour. It is continued
, down to the present time, and cfr»ra&erifes thole
I late political tranfa&iotis which have caused so
j muih UDeafinefs in America.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16, J
i South Second Street, and No. 50, Marke* ftieet.
! June 0. S a:
LAW BOOKS,
Latefl London and Dublin Editions. n
U. Is? P. RICE, Bookseller s,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street, r
HAVE just received by the Wte arrivals Irom
l.ondon and Dublin, their fpriig importa
ti«n, confitling ai a rariety of thelauft and most
approved 1. aw Book*, which, added lo those alrea-
dy on hand, forms the moll eitenfive collection ev- k
er offered for fa!e in this country. They thei ofore j
beg leave to r.fltiM, that from the nature of their Q
cor.ne6Hcr.sin Dunlin, they art enabled to felllriih
( editions (as th«y have hitherto at the very
'lowrtl prices. The following are among the latelt P
publications.
Vefcy, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, a \J.t.
Pealte's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwicto ; Vloyer's Probers \
Fradice in the Eeclefiallieal Courts; Barton's \
Trtatifc on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's Practice of
the gourt of Fung's Bench in Personal \dions, 2 ~
parts complete ; Ward's Laxv of Nations j Cruise v
on Uses ; modem Reports, l> vols. London edi- j- (
tion.
H. and P. Ric« eipeil t» rec«ive by the firft ar
' rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
, Purnford and East's Reports, the ad part of Oil-
P bert's Law of Evidon«e'by Loft, and a number of 11
new publications.
' June 16. ''
", ! P
The History of Pennsylvania,
I Bv ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the pref«, »nd will be published,
with all convenient expedition, by ZiCHA
- r1 ah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Cheinut-ftrect,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue a
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library, t
j according to the pnir.ted propcfali, until the 1
c work is ready for the subscriber». 1
July 18. lawtf f
Printed Calicoes. i
t
f JOHNMILLER, Jun. & Co. J
r ~J/o. 8 Ch'/mH-Street,
i Have for Sale 1
FIFTY TRUNKS Bcatly allbrtcd, very low on t
- (hort credit.
March 6. § 1
j Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftrcet.
, nuguft 1. >• w&f6t
Lancaster, llarrijburgh Carlijle,
f Sbippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
. HPHE public are raquefted to take notiie, that
JL the partnership "which hss for some time fnb
fifted Letwesn Mathias Slough of Laniafter, and
. William Geer, is now diffolvcd : bat, net as M.
. Slouch infinuatesto the public without jult caiife ;
as will more- fully appear by a letter on the fub
je<£t from M. Slough to W. Oeer, dated the 19th
- DccembeV last. a recital of which is not nowj deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman v> ho wiflies to be
more circumflantially informed of the merits of
this bufm«fs, hy applying to W. Geer may have
'J theperufal »f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
f at full liberty to determine whether or not \V.
Oeer is not perfe&ly jnftifiabie in attaching him
e felf to any other person in the prosecution df the
,r Jhage conveyance from Phdadetphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
II Now from the liberal and generous support the j
public were pleased to confer on the firfl effort in J
s, this bulinefs, V,"illiaai Geer. in eonjuncflion with !
y. Messrs. Reily, Weed and V/ittner, it determined !
;o to prosecute and carry it ijn, with every care, at- I
icntion and difjwtch that a zeal to oblige the pub- j
lie can pofiibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
J. with carriages, hori: s, and evsry appurtenance rp
render the paflage faf? and commodious, inform
0 f thofu wnu wiib to patronize and encourage the
Undertaking, t'hat they can take their feats at
a George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Car'lifle and Shippcnlburg. The fare as hitherto
eftcbljlhed.
For the further accommodation of the public,
,e 4 Stage will fturt every Wednesday from the house
& of Samuel Elder, 13 Harriiburg. arrive at fun
bury in Northumberland tounty, Thurlday,
W and rf turn Irom the"ce and ai iive at Hai riiburg
overy Satunlayj so that' passengers deflined ijr
1!- Lanctfleror"Philadelphia, may proceed o« Mon
days.
It, WILLIAM GEER.
LancaO.er, Jan. 27, 1797.
0' M. IS. Thii Line ef Stagey Harts from \hi'
house of William Fervae, in Lancaflcr, on evfry ,
Tuesday ,aud Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro- j
th ceeuing to the weftworTl; ajid from the house of j
Mr. Samuel Elder in Hamburg every Wednei
lit day niorningj on the /ame evning arriv.s at Pa- j
trick dc'chranV i.h Sfuppenlburg, and returns i
id from thence on every Thurfaay-. {jiirlor.ning the |
fame routins daily si in its tour frcm i'hiladel
phia. _ rqwl j
Adver'ufemcnt. j
On the loth of No vernal'next snWk-.\-ans!ria A
. (being court dav), will be exposed lor tie {me
or more covering JaeVs, anil leve'ral young
ones of different ages ami fwtrs ; all ck-frtfldecj '
I tram Royal Gift (ah import d JackTrto
ijfuvari's of 15 lands fcljh) °'* lot imported "
Jinnies from Alalia, full 14 hands high.
The terms of sale .(or If not JbQ) of letting ]
them for one or more seasons cover) w.ll
then be-made- known: the payments may be
made easy to the purehafer, bond r.nd security
being given for the amount, interest.
At the fame time and place* sundry
Horfcs and Mares will b;; offered for sale. The o
latter having been to the Jacks, arc probably
with foal. p
JA.MES M anjger. | g
ount-Vernon, 20th \ r.
September, J797. J ia\k'4W t\
* . 1 t j •
Insurance Coinpanv of the State ; J'
of Pennsylvania. ! n
T'HE Office wi!! be kept until further notice at
the Schoul House in Oermanto>vn. The .
Company ft ill retain the rhom in Chefr.ut, above
Seventh ftrcrt, vvhere a person will attend to tar
c.'ive and give answers to applications, every day
from 10 until I o'tlock.
• dit2awtf
Thomas Armat and Son,
OF PHILADELPHIA,
INFORM their customers axd the public, they (
have removed a part of their merchandize to J
Wilmington : Also, they their (lore open in j
the city. A*t either place their friends can be sup-
plied, and their orders carefully attended to
By the Cumber tend, from Hull,, they have re- *'
ceived a handsome aflsrtment of ai tides, suitable
to the approaching season ; and expeit to add to it
by other fall (hips.
Should the sickness prevail in tha central part of '
the city, that branch of their buiintf# will re
moved to Gcrmantown.
£/* The communication by post is open and r«&»' *
gulur as usual.
Sept. 18. #• thtf 1
TO BE SOLD VERT CHEAP ! I
A Light WAGGON almost new, with 3 frame — c
and a jiair of harness (Englilh collars) hr.s never 1 t
been ufe'd—price 90 Dolls.
A Horse 16 hilltis high, seven years old—sntl a
new chair, with aialtiu ( .; top and liarucf J —32o.
Endilire No. 331. Market-ilrect ,
Auguftii. 1 „_^ lw
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
y] valuable Lot qf Ground ;
SITUATE on the ltorth-eift corner of Wal- | c r
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State- ! '
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front I
on Wa'iiii! flreet, and one hundred and thirteeji ; J
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two fmail two story brick houfts, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
sll/o, for Sale, I
Two three Ptory Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, See. fituat* on
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saflafras
ftreeU, contiining in front 011 Water street fit- |
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five sett, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix' inches. X&tte houses :
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining 1
on the north fide, and are a very delirable fitua- 1
tion for a merchant, flour fa£lor,or others who
may have eccafion for ttorage of goods. Thi« 1
property will he fold on very reasonable tocm«
for cash. For further information apply to the j
printsr.
July 31. _ • nn&wtf
TO ti E SOLD,
Andpojftjffion gitoen immediately.j
ALARUh two story l»rick Houfe,handfomely
situated in Princeton. There are four rooms
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back bjiildinga 51 (eet in
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. Thoracis, a pump
in the yard, an excel lent kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
(tables, one of which" is new, 44 feet long, with
flalls'in the two ftajifes for 1") hcrfes. The hcal
thinefs and plcaiantnef< oi its iituation, and tho
number «f ganteel and agreeable families in
ntar the town, reader it a desirable rttreeat for a
gentleman from the city. Thecoraroodioufnefs of
the house, its central position, and the largenrfs of
* the !tables,ma I .cc it every wayfuitahleforatavern,for
which it has always been confiderd as a capital
(land. Inquire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. i.y 19—-diwaawtf
City of Wellington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of th: Federal City.
A magnificent dwelling-houfc ao,ooo dollars,
it & cash 30,0001 ire 50,000
I ditto 13,000 & cafa ij,oo« 40,q0<.>
d I ditto 15,000 St cash 15,000 30,000
[• I ditto 10,000 A cash 10,000 ao,ooo
> 1 diUo 5,000 6t caih 5.000 10,06 c
1 ditto 5,000 & ?a(h 5,000 10,000
1 cast prize of »o,oo<i
» do. 5,001) each,are • 10,000
e ( 10 do. 1,000 - *, 10,00 c
ao do. 500 - - i»,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
r »10' do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. a; - - 10,000
e 1,000 do. jo - 10,000
f. 15,00 c do. 10 - . 150,000
ie ' t5.739 Prizes.
II j fllar.ks.
d | 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, SOO,OOO
)- j N. B. Tolav nrthofewho may take a quan
-5 ti'y oi Tickets,the prize of 40,oooflpllars will te
d the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
p but one :
Ji approvednotes, feeuring payment in either
ie monsy or prizes, ip ten days alter drawing, will
it be received for any number not lefsthan 30 tick
e, ets.
ly This Lottery will afford an elsgr.nt specimen of
it, the private buildings to be crtifed in the City el
to WaMingwa'—Two beijj.t.iful defigos are already
ileleiled for the entire !rcnt» on two of the public
c, squares; from these drawisgv it ispropofcu toereiit
fe two centre and r .oV,rf uriver buiMings.as soon aspol
-- fible after this lott«ry is fold, audto convey theni,
y, when complete, t« the fortunate adventurers, jte
'g the manner defcrihed in the fchemc for the Hoti!
h Lottery. A nttt deduclion of five per cent, will
a- be Made to defray the neceflary expenl'es of.pricc
ing, &r. and the furpiu? will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National University, to
be creeled within the city of Wafliingtou.
IS' The real fecuvitiesgiven for the payment of the
•y £1 izes, are held by the Frefident and two Direfl
-- | art of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued'at
,f } aiore than half the amount ot the lottery.
:t . ; SAMUEL IiLODGRT.
3- ; ,§, Tickets may b.» had at the Bank ot CoJ»r.i
;,S | hia ; c { James Vv'efl ft. Co. Baltimore ; of Peter
ie iGHm&C, Boston : of Joha H®;-l:ins, Richmond ;
:1-;"a:id of Richard Wilis, Cooper'JFecry.
i mw£
This Day Publiflied,
And to be.fold by WILL.IAM YOUNG, corner of,
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price 3-3ths of a Dollar, E'
O'/ervations on certain Documents
(Contained i>i No. V «vr« l VI of
" The Hillory of the Urfited States for S]
the year 1796," A
In which the ch aßgb of speculation avainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, 1
Late Secretary of the Treasury, is FULLY
11EJ?UTED.
/r RITT r. N BY HIMSELF.
Th's publication prefects- a concise ftatcment
ol the baffc means by the Jatobinsof the
ITnited States to asperse tlie characters of those
ptrfons who are cor.frckred as hostile td> their dilor
garizing fc'nemes. It alio-contains the cor
reljjontftnte feet Ween Mr. Hamilton and Mc«Trs.
Monroe, Mulilenburgh end on the fub
je6l of the dbciinvnts i'.Vri a scries of let
ters from James Reynolds and his v> i(c to MrHa
niilton, proving beyond the polubiliiy of a doubt,
that the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the relult of a dating eonfpiraay on the part
of the latter aad his associates to extort money.
A discount of one thi?d from the retail price
will be made hi favor oi wholefaie purchafcr*, for
cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr Young.
Aurrufl IC.
No. 188.
DiJlriS of Pennfylvar.ia, to wit :
(l s) P E lr REMEMBhRHD, that on the
' s JL3 twcity lixth day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
Statts of America, Jon>) F*nno, of the said di£-
triil.hath depofitedin this office the title of a book,
the right whereof he clsitns as proprietor, in the
words following, t'o wit :
" Ohfervations on certain documents contained
" in No. V. and VI, of "The History of thel'nit
" ed Statesfor the year 1796," in which tha charge .
" of speculation, agaiuil Alexander Hamilton, lata i ,
" Secretary of tile Trcafury, is fully refuted—► j
" Written by himfeif " / ! j
In conformity t»*he aA of theCocgrefs of the ,
Ucited States, cntitnled, "An ail for the encour- (
agement of learnii'.g, By feetirin* the copies of i ,
maps, charts and books to the authors am? propri- ]
etors of such copies, during th« times thwei» mi«- .
tioned." 1
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
CI irk ef the DiJLriSl of Penrfyl+aniM. i
; July a;. W4vr 1
I he Inhabitants of the [
of Southwark,
A RE informed that a Coachee is provided, to b« 1
| n,. kept at the Constables' office, tile north east I
cerner of Front and Almond streets, where the
| friends of tha ft: sick pi-rfons who desire to be re- !
| moved to the City Hospital, are requeftcd to make j
application—Also, a Hcaife will he kept in readf
i nel'» for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
N.B.—The Poor, who with to remove to the
Tents 011 Schuylkill, may be furnifhed with orders
by applying as ahove. Any. 29
William Blackburn,
LOTTERT and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 ftivth Secpnd-Sreet.
TICKETS in Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
couamanced drawing the 29th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the lail day ol
drawing.
Check Books kept forciamination and regiller
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of WaUiingtot), No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets forlalein the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing i» thecourfeof the fsmmer.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of S«ock, j
Bills, Notes, Land', &c-&c. tranfa&ed with the |
utmotl a;tention.
June 2 tuftf j
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Caufos and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May rj }
"state trials.
Sold b W. Young, Bookseller, No. J», South So
- cond-ftre«t,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial and acquit
al of Francis Hopkinfcn, Judge of tl>e Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicbolfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—-In one large & vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general affortmentof
, Book'. AUb, Stationary, ret.ftil atid by the pack
ege,well aflorted,and eniitled to the drawback if
nx ported. July 1' —*
For Sale,
>• " \
That wellbiownplace, called V/iNOtSßiFt's
3 FIRRY,
> N Nelham'my cr«ek, 18 miles from Phili
-0 ladelphia, on the New York poll road,
5 containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
0 premifies are a large two flory stone house occu
-0 pied as a tvern, and a good one llory {lone kit
-0 chen, a large frame ftatle with a good threfiiin-g
0 floor, and l'ome out buildings—also a well of
r> good water, and an excellent ice House. On
0 this place is a mill elegant situation fora gentle
man's felt, commanding a vio\V of the EStfhart)-
i 17y toits junflion wiih tlie Delaware, and thence
aerofs to the Jersey lliore. h has the privilege
. of one half the tollrcceived from the bridge,
d Fdr terms apply to the S»M"cribcr,
MGRDECAI LEWIS,
i- 24. jtawff.
"Columbia house
Boarding School for young Ladies,
r -* yrKS. GROOM BRIDGE with m»ch pieaf-
II IVL ureand refpesfl, returns her fmcere ac
knowledgemi-nt for the liberal ettcouragcme*t
she has received fluring four years residence ia
,f Philadelphia ; and afTures her friends awl the
■' public, so far from intending to decline her
y school, Ihe has made a an angement for
"J the piore convenient jt.i-c,orrii,>o<latio« of htr
1 scholars. —Every Lronch 01 oft fid awl polite
educatisn is pnrtiltularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridne and maJters excelling in their
, I refpcJliveproS-iTiops.
jj Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets,
j June ?th, 1797-
,j The situation is perfeflly healthy ; and made
0 more agree.iblehy an extenhvc garden ai)d lot
of ground adjoining the irr-iie.
1 Jujl Puhlijhed,
it And to be hjd el Dovfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the o?her ; ricipal Uookfeller, in tlie
city,price one dollar, twmty-five cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
' Tribes and Nations cf America.
By EENJAMiH SMITH BARTON, M. o.
June 2*.
Rofs & Simfon,
HAVE FOR SALE—K
r Hoglheads,
Eiccillent CofTcc in < Tierce*, and
1 C Barrels.
A (mall parcel of nice cocoa in bags
A few puflehcoiK Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior Tenerifiec wine, old an t in Madeira pipes
An invoice of jewellery and hosiery to be fold by
the package
A few hamp;rs ef best En s lifh cheese.
July 17. cits.
The Subscriber has for Sale,
A large fiffortment ©f India Muflias,
coirfe and fine
India Calicoes
Sooty Romalls
B'uff Cloths au<J Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue fed and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice as IriOi Linens and Sheetings, well
aflortcd
A box of Oiapers
Sillt Umbrellas
Two botes of fine Spices, cotfiißing Nutmegt,
Mace amd Cloves '
Black Peippfr of firft quality
Ead India Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wine
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimstone
Mordecai Lewis.
slim*/} tt. / "(d/rm '
Higgins* Specific
TOR TUB
PREVENTION A N't) CURE OF THE 4'
YELLOW FEVER.
T7VFR since this diffafe nvide fwch rayagwin this
city and New- ork, the author ha? turned his
: attention to itscaufe* a«H cure.—The result of h"s
■ enquiries has convinced him that the rcafon why fa
| few person? recover-from its attacks, are fr«m its
\ not being well underflood, and the consequent
I wrong: method taken to cure it. He Uperfuaded
that the excefljvc bleedlgns and mercurial reatmeat
* of {he Faculty is highly Injurious, that the on
■ ly rational mode of treatment is by theufe of proper
acids. Coivincid of this he offers his Speciji<- a 6 a
certain remedy, if used according to the dire&ions.
To be had in bottles, at one dollar each, of the
inventorflco. H'rgfrinsy Cherry street, two doors a
bove Ninth street, (late manayr of Jack/bn and
Co*s Medicine Varehoufe, London); by J-Lc*
Waw,No. 1 6 \ IV. Griffith. No. 177, T. Pearce. No.
41, South Third ftre.°t. 7. Stffi No. 55',New street,
near Vine ftrt.it, and J. Gales y No. 36, Race llreet.
Aug. 15. tuthi
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
just received, by Wm. Griffiths, No. 177, South
Serond~srcet, f frelh supply of
Genuine Bal/am of Honey,
A Medtfirtft'invented by the Ut' Sir John Hill
((»ho knowledge is a.Botanist procured him >
the appellation »f the Linnaeus of Brit*in) and it
•onfidered in a strtain cure for the above
complaints ; it is also of lingular efficacy in the'
Hooping Cough,
It rtiay aKo be had retail of W. A. Stokis.No.
61, 3o»ith Second street, and T. Stiff, 35,
ftr«et, in bottles at 75 cents each.
W». Griffiths having obfervedthe happy e£-
fefl of the medicine, ( several cases of cures hav
ing come within his own knowledge) and the great
demand for ft has induced him to order a large
supply, a part of which he has just r-ceiv#d.
AuguJ! 3. lawjw
30 Dollars Reward.
. ."O AN away on Saturday last, two indent'edSer-
I JLV. vants,Giififerd Dally, a mulatto boy abotit $7
'i years of age, a Him light built r.£Hve fellow, can
I read and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
has a heavy countenance ; had on a fuftian
and trotrfers, a high crowned hat, fine (hoes &c.
Allan Helions, a black mm, about 14 years of
feet fcven or eight inches high, a thick jfet
citmfy built f Now, particularly about the breach;
' had on a blue jacket lined with fwanfki*:,
dark striped vest, fufti&n trowfers, higi; crowned
hat, coarfc flioes, See.; each of them had several
i Ihirtsand several other cloathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways or 15 dol
lars for each, and reasonable charges, on delivering
. them at No. 54, North Third-street.
The black fellow is about a year franv Lewis
Town, in the County of Sun ex, state of Dela
ware, and has taken the boy with him.
Ju'y3l. mfu
■ To be SOLD or RENTED,
A LARGE 3 Story Brick House, on the
South fide of Filbert street. between
* Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
veyor General's Office.
The Building is feet front and 35 feet deep,
3 the lot rto fret deep, with the privilege »f a nine
j- feet wid* Alley extending tha whole length of
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
f to turn in. The FJoufe is hot plaflered, and
•may be turned either into one, or two dwelling
- Houses. It is fuitible for a large Manufactory,
pr vcotild mate a good TaverH. Immediate
f pbffeffion will be given.
Apply to No. in, Che.Vit-Street.
Anp.ir. coiUt.
Mujkal Injlrument Mantfaftory,
No. 167, Arch Strtel.
- "JJ" ARPER,harptjehord,grand, portable gra>:(!,
£ ii fid --board, pier table and fqunre piano Igtsm
if m»k- r from London, returns thanksto his friend*
n and the pubfic, for their liberal encoutapcmcnt »
, and hopes that byhisafliiiuity and afx-ntk nto ev
! ery branch of his business, ton etit a cortinusnce
of their favQrs. Piano fertcs made on th? newed
and most approved plans, Wi'h prdals,
f«e!l, and French harp flop, which heiKttciß
himff.lf will uc found on tri il by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not foperior to any import
•ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any indrH
_ m nt purchased of him, if not approved of in
twflve months, hewili exchange.
N. B. All kinds of iVleficil instruments mad.',
u:n'd, and fepairea with the great! ft accuracy,
1- difpktch, ahd cn the moll realo::able teiiuf, l t r
ready money only,
it Second hind tfiane Fcrrei taken in exchangi?.
13 May in. .
:r Forty Dollars Reward.
ir AN au-ay from t'ne iciifcriber o» the . feu
r iV onddiyof this inlt. July, a Mulaitto Man r
'■* ntir.'">>'d vVii) iiowzer, about Jorty years of age».
s. live feV»f fevta or eight inches high, rather
' r chunky made ; had on wheil he went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, striped purple trowfers
and jacket. It is probable hs will change his
clpathes, as hetocksa hitmber with him. The
' e said fellow formerly belonged to Mr. Charle»
" Blake of this place; and it is expelled heha«
made towards Jones's Neck, in the Delaware
State. —Any p?rlon apprehending t"he &id fel
low, aad fecurlng him so that I can get him a
gain, shall receive the above reward if taken
lc cut of tKe county, and Twenty Dollars if in
s > tl>e county, and all reasonable charges if bro't
e hojns.
JESSE REED,
Qitsjß Ana's Gouaty, Maryland.
July 3.