of the & Philadelphia Daily Advertise
Number 1464. j
United States, 1 -
Pennsylvania Diftrid, j
Notice is hereby given,
*"pH \T in purftiance ol a writ to m« direited
JL from the honorable Richard Piters, Esq.
Judge of the DiftriA Court of the United States
in and for the Pennsylvania DiftriA, will be ei
pofed to sale at the merchants' eoffee-hoafe in this
eity, on tie 17th day of this instant, May, at 11
■o'clock at n »nn,
I7"A« Schooner or Vrjfel called
THE BETSEY,
With all and lingular her tac
kel, apparel and furniture (whereof an inventory
tnay be seen at my office) the fame having been
libelled against and condemned in thi said DifrriA
Court, for the payment of mariner's wages, &c.
William Nichols, Marjhal.
marshal's office,")
17th May, 1797. J
rJTjj~v For St. Croix,
f ail tn et sbt
Twins,
Matthew Keeler, Mailer,
For passage apply to
'James Tard,
on Walnut-street wharf.
May 60 $
For madeira,
Edward,
"James Itickham, Mafttr.
WILL Ail in about Eight days, having
three-fourths of her cargo engaged. For
freight or passage, apply to the captain on
board, at Stamper's wharf, or the Subscriber.
John Donnaldfon.
May 11. £Bt
N, B. The Edward is intended to return di
re<Sl to this port, and will lake in freight at
Madeira.
For Baltimore,
Harriot,
i thomas moore, Commander; 1
A fine faft failing Ihip, and is expeSed to fail the
41ft inft. Freight will be taken very low, if im- •
mediately applied for, to the captain on board at |
Willcox'b wharf, or to '
Peter Kuhn. J
N. B. The consignees of goods on board the a- j
hove lhip from Hawburg, will please to be expe- (
ditious in delivering their permits, as k lhe is now
discharging. .
May 17. <l4t
for Charter, c
The Sh ip t
VwMi
J OBN Tjxku, MaJler,
"TO"OW — lying it Albertfor.'s wharf, South
1M wa-k—burthen 3300 barrels, in compleat 0
order to toke in a cargo. ti
For terms apply to ti
Gicrney & Smith. I
May 15 'i e
For sale, n
The fajl failing Schooner
White-oak frame—built in the n
hate of Virginia in the year 1796 —j7 feet 3, t]
inches keel, 17 feet 10 inches beam, 8 feet 3 C
inches hold —burthen 90 tons—is said to carry ii
600 barrels—completely fitted and ready to re
ceivea cargo : For further particulars enquire of ti
Rofs and Simfon, No. lit, South Front-street. ti
April 3 i li
Rofs & Simfon, £
Have for Sate, ai
A QUANTITY OK PRIME W
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior OH Lisbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madera Calks
A few Qsarter Chests belt
H»r nd i tem
Mul'covado Sugars in Hoglheads, and _
Coffee in Tierces a
March 7. || tf
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany. ar
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sharchold-
ers, that a further assessment of fifteen
dollars is levied on each (hare, payable in the j (
.following instalments—viz.
One quarter immediately.
One quarter on the ift of June. /
One quarter ou the jft September.
One quarter oh the ill Dec. next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Trea- J
Turer of the Company at the Company's Office, f a
No. 53 north Fourth street, agreeably to the w
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed that on their negleiliag to pay the
fame as above directed, the several forfeitures
direifled by the Ccnftitution, willl be exaifled. j;
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE,
Treasurer.
May 15 sim
For Sale,
At this Office, ?'
Ko. 119 Chef nut ftrett,
A few copies of a late Report of a Committee
of the Sciiote, on the fubje& of the ir
GEORGIA LASTDS.
March 1.1
Printed Calicoes. q '
JOHN MILLER, Jan. & Co. «l
No. 8 Cbefnut-Street, tii
Have for Sale til
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly affiwted, rery low on ui
Ihort credit. fti
March t. 5
PHILADELPHIA
Stated Sales
AT AUCTION,
> . For DR r GOO DS.
icd I
fq- J
tt6 Tburfdaj \ Forenoon-Edward Fox.
- x ~ j ( Afternoon—John Connelly.
Til Friday ? Forenoon—William Shannon.
5 Afteraoon—John Connelly.
<td I Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
—Edward Fox, No. _j6,
' Monday! ./ outh Fron , t .- ilrcet '
c-I J Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
ry I ' South Front-street.
j Forenoon—John Connelly, Old Citv
I Tucfda-J Auflion, No. 73 south Front-street.
' I J Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
183 High-street.
j "
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
I At the Merchants' Coffee honfe, in Philadelphia,
on the 15th day of June, at 8 o'clock in the
| evening, if not belore disposed of at private
I laic,
40,931 1-2 acres of land, on the
I waters of Wheeling and Fifliing creeks, in Wash-
I ington county, Pennsylvania. The foil is .remark*
I ably fertile ; andbefides a large body of meadow,
I there are considerable improvements on the pre
I mifes. Thcfe lands were patented in 1787. On
I payment of part of the purchase money, a reason-
I abl« credit will be given for the residue. Enquire
I of the printer.
May ij. §tS
e Valuable Lands, Mills,
1 See. in Georgia.
On Saturday, the first day of July
_ I next, at 7 o,clock in the evening, at the Cos
( see-house in Philadtlphia, will be fold by
I au£lion, for a liberal credit, the following
estates
In the State of Georgia.
No- I.
A CERTAIN TRACT OF LAND, conj
I -tV. taining 100,697 1-1 acres, situate in the
I county of Montgomery, formerly the county of j
. I Walhington, on the e;ft fide of Ohoory river, 1
. I and the waters of the Altamaha, and about one 1
j mile above the mouth of Pendleton's creek, and 1
I in the neighbourhood of Mill creek. The im- 1
J provements on this tra6l of land, consisting of. s
the moil complete Grift and Saw Mills in the (
southern country, having coll at least so,oeo
dollars within these two years. The timber is v
of the fineft quality, and the quagtity is not to 1
be exhauiled.
I a "
A traifl of very valuable land in Franklin I
county, lying on the wat«rs of Oceuee, con-
I taining about 75,000 acre*.
a ... 3 '
A trail adjoining or near to No. a, contain
ing about 45,000 acres. il
4. b
Two millions and five hundred thousand aeres I
of land, being an vndivided part of all that
trail of valuable country, including islands, fi
tuatcd on the Mobile Bay; Albahama, Tom _
Bigby, and Miflifippi Rivers, whifh was grant
ed by the State of Georgia to James Gunn, and
others, by the name of " The Georgia Compa
ny", in fee.
5- ±
Thirty fbares in the Tenr.effee Company,
each (hare being about 10,000 acres, or one four
hundredth and twentieth part.of the said Ten
nessee Company's purahaie, being so much of
the trail of country, granted by the State of
Georgia to Matthias Mahcr and Zachariah Cox,
in fee.
(Cj* This piece of property may, in the op- -
tion of the purchaser, or his alfigns, be offered (
to Zaohariah Cox, forthefum of 175,000 dol- jj
lars, in two years from the sift March f96,
who is obliged by his fpeeial bond, to take the
fame, if offered to him, at that time, and pay
for the fame, within fix months after the expir
ation of the said two years. This bond is fold a|
with tne land.
By order of J
Henry Pratt, b
7*. If. Francis, / - b
John Miller, jun. i „ Jfio" ees c f n
John All,ley, \ Greenleaf. Q
Jacob Baker, cl
Edward Fox, Auctioneer.
May 15 mwftS (,<
All persons who have any demands b
Against the ellate of John Finlay, deceased, "
are requelled to exhibit their accounts proper
ly atteftedon or before the loth of May next — 0
and those who are indebted to said estate are re- ''
quested to make immediate payment to either of
the Subscribers. rr
ROBERT HENDERSON,) ~ . c.
JOHN M'CARA, 5 Aimmifirators _
April 26. 1
TEAS. ;i
A FEW thefts of Imperial, Hyson Skin and n '
Souohong Teas of a superior quality for
sale at the store of the fubferiber, the north
west corner of Market and Third-streets.
Patent Shot. q 1
ALSO,
A large CELLAR to be let at a very low rent.
Enquire as above of RICHARD WISTAR.
April 29. ftu&thim
Translations.
MEMORIALS, advertiferoeuts, epillolary,
and {other writings in French and En- r ~
glifti, undertaken by Samuel Chandler, «. m. -
translator of Le Moniteur, L'Obfervateur, Less'
Quatre Fils Aymons, L'Heroine Americain,
and many other French authors.
S. C. has been in the habit of compiling for
the most approved publications, & occafionallv
attending where the hurry of bufitiels may re- f 0
quire his immediate attendance. -j-
Encouraged and assisted by gentlemen of l,
abilities, he proposes publishing by fubferip
tion, a work in French and Englilh, by the He
title of The American SpeHator. Theprofpedl- til
us may be fees at hts lodgings, No. 67, Arch- &
ftrett.
April *7< • f
By John Fenno,
» To be Sold,
A three Jlory brick House, with futable back
buildings ;
* QC "^ reet » No. 83, completely
fiaimed, and free of ground-rent: It has a
neat back yard, i:i which is a cittern, and new
pump lor rain water—commodious cellars are un
derneath the whole, in which is a dry well bricked
up, that will hold ice. Thi« property is well cal
culated for a boarding house. For particulars ap
ply at the premises.
Immediate polTeflion will be given, or so as to
(suit a purchaser.
Ma 7 *i» Sawtf
500 Dollars Reward.
ty AXTHHREA*S a certain Chriflopher F.Parnell,
:t. V V failed from Boston, on or about the 27th
o* of laft, in the sloop Union, with a valua
ble cargo, bound to Baltimore, but -went off to
the Weft-Indies where he fold the veflel and
cargo. On or about the firft inft. was appre
hended (as a fulpicious charadler) in this town,
and examined before fevcral magistrates, but
tor the want of fufficient proof to detedl him
a > in his villany he was dilehargedo
c Ihe is, the said Parnell is a villain, and
e is attempting to defraud sundry persons to the
amount of 30,000 dollars.
2 He left this town about the loth inft. he
rode in a chair ( painted green) drawn by a grey
. mare, and wens on the Newbern road, but on 1
•, this fide 1 ronton, took the road of Fayetteville,
and most probably is passing through the back
u part of the state into the w«ftern countries.
He had when he left this town, upwards of
e 2000 dollars in gold, and about 7000 dollars in
bank notes.
Parnallis a small man, about age, ■
much pock-marked, and has long black hair,
remarkable small eyes, and has a down look ;
> when spoken to. ;
Whoever will secure the said Parnell, and '
the money he has with him, and give mforma-
tion to Benj. Williams of Baltimore, John Hogg, 1
« fq. at Hilllborough, to Mr. A. Jocelin, of this 1
. town, or to the fubferiber, who is in pursuit of
the villain, shall receive the above reward.
t . ABNER CRAFT.
Wilmington, (N. C.) April 26, 179 J
To be fold at private sale, r
A TWO story dwelling hoiufe and lot of ground
in the city of Burlington, state of New-Jer
sey, in a healthy and pleasant situation. Thg
house is of brick,containing four good sized rooms,
with a convenient kitchen and cellar. The lot,
on which is a liable, &c. containi about an acre of
land of the bell quality, with a front fuflicient to
admit two 01 three large houses, independent of
that part at present occupied by the house.
For further particulars enquir* of Jofeph"M'll
vaine, Esq. in Burlington, or j«feph Reed, No.
114, High-street, Philadelphia.
May 11. eo»w
Philadelphia and Luncifler Turn
pike Compamy.
A meeting of the Stockholders of the Phila
delphia and Lancaster Turnpike Company, will
be he.d at the Company's Offiee, on Monday,
10 o clock, the izthjune next.
WILLIAM GOVETT. Sec'ry.
Ma >- fr 4 W.
Received by the Indoftan,
From Madras,
A SMALL invoice consisting of the following
Coa!t Goods, viz.
Blue Cloths t
Long Cloths, 14 punjums 1
Do. do. firie g<
Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and tu
Book Muslins gi
WILLING y FRANCIS. w
March 27. , aw- bt
be
Georgetown Bridge Company. hs
Extract of an a<sl pafled by the Legislature o ti(
the state of Maryland on the 29th December
1791, entitled, " An ait for erecting a bridge
over Potawmac river. L.
'' And be it enaffed, that the said diretflors or
any two ®f them shall and may require any sum
or sums of money in equal proportion from each
and every proprietor, as may from time to time H
be neceflary for carrying on the building of said 1
bridge; and after giving three months public fill
notice, it shall and may be lawful for the direst- w
-ors to sue for and rtcover in the name of the
company such unpaid requisition, with all costs ? s
and charges incidental thereto, and legal interest i c<
thereon from the time the fame should have D ,'
been paid: And thenegle<S orrefufal to pay any
such requisition after public notice shall have
been given at least for three months in all the
newspapers herein before enumerated, flial! have
the effe<ft to forfeit all preceding payments made
on the share or (hares so neglefted or refufed to ,
be paid tv the use and benefit of the company." s ' t
The above extraa is published for the infor- ur '
mation of such of the ftoskholders as have not
complied with the requisitions heretofore made pu
—they are as follow: On the ill November, th
179i> dollars, on the loth May, 1796, 40 M
dollars; an the 20th July, 17,6, 40 dollars ;on to
the ill September, 1796, 40 dollars, and on the tei
rft Novemher, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is lie
now given that after the expiration of the time
limited for the continuance of this advertise- wi
ment (three months) the law will be carried "1
into rigid and complete effeel against all delin- thl
quents. Un
By order of the Direflors, G<
IVALTER SMITH, Tr.afurer. M
Georgetown, May 1,-1797. ™
Lottery and Broker's Office, cft
No. South Second-street. a £
of
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. *, for sale hu
—T'lis Lottery will positively commence ar
drawing the 19th day of May noxt—Checkbooks e»
for registering and examination in this, the City La
of Walhington, No. a, and Paterfon Lotteries, d»
now drawing, are kept—also' information where
Tickets 111 Wafliington, No. a, and Patterfon may
be had—Ticket? in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery
for sale at ten dollars each, and as soon as issued, hoi
Ticketsin all the other Lotteries authorized by the Tu
Ltgiflaturc of this state will be for sale. cec
The luhfcriberfolicits the application of thepub> .-«•
lie aad his friends who wi(h toTellbank (lock, cer
tifieates, bills of exchange or rotes, houses, land, trii
&c.or to obtain money on deposit of property. fra
WILLIAM BLACKBURN. f a „
April 8. jaw h
at N° Ix 9 Cbefnut Street.
THURSDAY EVENING, MAT i 3, 1797.
April 8
I For Sal?, i
ack I The time of an indented Negro Servant,
Who has nine years to serve ; can be Well rcconi -
tely I "'ended for houeily and sobriety. Entire at No.
s a I ,l 7> Chefnut-ftreet.
lew I _" d f_ d4t
un - I A FEIV BOXES OF ~
k a c i d Bologna Sausages,
a P-|Of a superior quality, to be Sold at No.
to I '99» South Front-Street.
I A P r ' lg <>i eotf
XVanted to hire,
I In the city of Philadelphia or neighborhood,
A Malt-house and Brewery.
'"» „ For further particulars please apply to the
th I Printer hereof. '
,a - MI Y .1- §iw
nd J u st imported,
e- fhip Woodrop Sims, Capt. Hodsfon,
J from Canton, and for Tale by the Subfcrib
ut at Kinrc y >B » comer of Second and
m I Pine-street,
Hvfon
id I Hyson Skin /Teas all frefh and of
e I J oung Hyson and C excellent quality.
Gunppwder ) V
le J Alio,
■y, A fcyv Nankeens.
a-, e. haight.
k A P ril '7 ritf
,f Notice.
n J A GREEABLY to charter, is hereby given
If t 0 th e members of " The Corporation
tor the relief of poor and diftrefTed Prefcyterian
Mmifters, and of the poor and diftrefled widows
k and children of Presbyterian Miniftcrs," that
a meeting of said corporation will be bolden
d I ill the reconcPrefbyterian church in the city of
I Philadelphia, on the 23d instant, at 4 .'o'clock
, P M. for the dispatch of all such business as
s may then be brought before the Board. f
f ASHBEL GREEN, '
Sec'ry of the Corporation. 1
May 1. § .
NOW LANDING,
From on board of the fliip GEORGE BAR- ,
CLAY, Capt. Charles M'Alestir, from
Calcutta, the following GOODS, viz.
' Codas Punjum Cloths
1 Hummums Gurrahs
; Guzeenahs India Calicoes
Emertics Cotton Checks f
Mamoodies Mulmuls P
Sahans Red and Blue Bernxgou
likfi
Tickeries Patna do. A
J°" as Santipore do.
Carridarries Plain, striped and flower- t'
ed fine muslins p
Maragunges Ginghams t(
Baftas, various forts Taffetics t<
Sattln Romals Bandanno red hks.
A L S O, » r
300 Calks Sugar j
40 Boxes do.
16J Bags do. j
• 70,000 lb. weight heavy black Pepper
40,000 lb. weight Ginger
20 Tons Hemp in Bales ai
9 Pipes East-India Spirits
For sale by PHILIPS, CRAMOND tfCo.
May 4. <'tf t "
Maurice Moynihan, g'
A T o. 8 1, Norih Secondjlreet,
A few doors above Arch-street,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
for wholesale or retail, on the lowest terms, a
general assortment of Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
tumblers, plain flowered quart, pint, half pint
gill and half gill do. exaA measures, decanters and
wine glaifcs ; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint
bowls, and china in (ets and separate ; pocket
bottles: Schuyikill and Jersey country quart and
half gallon bottles ; Dry Goods, &c. Btc.
B. Crates put up with care at the Ihorteft no»
tice*
May II dtf
Lancaster, Harrijburgh, Carl'jle, _
Sbtppenjburg and Sunbury
S T A G E S.
THE public are requcfted to take notice, tbat r
the partnerlhip which has for some time sub
sisted between Mathias Sleugh of Lancaster, and fil
William Geer, is now dissolved: bat, not as M. fli
Slough infinuatesto th« public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the sub-
jc<sl from M. Slough to W. Gccr, dated the 29th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed neceflary. Any gentleman who wiflies to be
more cireumftantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have _
thepcrufal of M. Slough'? letter, and then can be A
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfeilly jultifiable in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf- "
urg, or any other place. |\
Now from the liberal and generous f.-pport the
public were pleaO.ft to confer on the firft effort in
this business, William Geer, in conjun<slion with
Meflrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub- n
lie can poflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the paflage fafe and commodious, inform
those WHO wifti to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's; the sign of the White Hcrfe,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippeniburg. The fare at hitherto'
eftabliflied. ' CI
For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house'
of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from the.ee and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that piffengers destined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. ay, 1797.
N. B. This Line si Stages ft arts from th»
house of William Ferr«c, in Lancaster, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to th'- weftwarJ; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harnlburg every Wednef
**iay morning, on the fame evening arrivet at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippeniburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadel
hia. mwf
Notice.
at, _ i .
To. T H .f Mana S ers the Canal I.'oueryf No..
1 an nounce to the public, tfcat ttie
drawing will positively commence
- ty-nmth of May next. Tickets t<Hj«fi£o£
either of the managers, *nd at theCanaFffl»e.
Wm. MOORE SMITH, SfTf
0 _ A P nl 3 mth, t29rltMVi
7"hit Day it Publtfhcd,
Price 15 Cents, i
By JOHN Oil MROD,
NO. 41 CUtSNOT-StRKJtT,
A Discourse,
is Delivered on the aid of February n 57
At the FUNERAL of
fcTn R " , GILBKRT tennent snowden,
of the p reftyterian Cliurch of Cranberry,
in the State of New.Jersey,
i, Bythe Rev. SAMUEL STANHOPE $ MIT it
d MKciTu ° l Ula C ° of N ' w
§
This Day is Ptiblifhed,
BY Mess* Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
othei Bookfcllers,
rice One Dollar and twenty-five cents.
Elegantly printed on Wove peper, ar.d Hot
prcjftd;
John i hompfon,
A COMPARATIVE. Vi£VVOF
The Constitutions
tha? f J? e i eV n ,ISt f t c' With «"*•*«. and with
1 .?! the U "' tCd Sute,: "'"bitingin Tables,
! 2 r °™ ,nc l C f " tures ° f «<* Conftttution, and
, Clafling together thar rnoft Important provifiens
I By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L - D • 2nd member of the Congrcfs of t. v c
United States,
f Dedicated to the People of the United States.
' Copies printed on an inferior pa
ptfr, at 3-4ths of a dollar.
. Fel "-"ary6 mwf
William Haydon,
Drawing Mafler, from London ;
VITHEKE he studied fcveral years under one
» » of the most eminent malters in that sci
ence. He attends young ladies and gentlemen
at their refpetfive houses. His terms are fix
dollars per month for attendance three time*
per week; likewise all kind of ornamental
painting, fruit, flowers, &c. taught on the above
terms.
A line direfled to W. Haydon, No. 26, Pear
street, will bt immediately attended to.
W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will be par
ticularly advantageous, where there are several
pupils in the fame family ; as he makes no al
teration in his terms if there are two or three
to teach in one family.
Ma y 9- dtw
' 1 'hi, holders ot Robert Morris and John Ni-
X cholfen's notes and acceptances, deposit.d as
collateral feenritiesfor the engagements of Edward
Fox and JamesGreenleaf, are requefltd to
TAKE NOTICE
That the fubferibers, at the request and by the
authority of the holders of near nine tenths of the
amount of the paper above alluded to, have receiv
ed from George Simpfon, Efq an alignment of the
trust under which the said notes and acceptances
are secured, together with all the deeds and obli
gations thereunto attached—therefore any applica
tion tor sale of any part of said propertyis to be
made to THOMAS W- FRANCIS,
HENRY PRATT,
JOHN MILLER, jun.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
Mari:h »• m&th'f
CLARET
OF THE
Vintage of 1792,
In cases of 24 and 30 bottles eaci,
FOR SALE BY
„ , RUNDLE & LEECH.
March *9 mwftf
GOLD AND SILVER "
bullion.
r TPHE highest price in ready money will be »i-
X ven for geld or silver bullion, old gold °«r
silver, or gold dust, at No. 29, North Seventh
flreet.
A P ril ££ iaw6w
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
Company,
May lfl, 1 707.
THE STOCKHOLDERS
WHO are in arrears for any fumsdueon their
refpeilive stares, are requeued to pay the
fame.
WILLIAM GOVETT, Treasurer.
10 m4W
Mr. Pickering's Letter to <£en.
Pinckney. f
A few copies of the above interfiling pajfer,
may be had at the office of the Gazette of the U
nited States.
May 13
Just arrived,
In the brigt Twint and Fame,
A quantity of Havauna and St. Croix
Sugars,
Of the firft quality.
—ON HAAD, —
Choice JAMAICA SPIRITS & St.Croix RUM
James Tard,
On VVaJßut-ft/eet Wharf.
M *y 3 diot
A Quantity of Brandv,
FIRST & ad preof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhd«
Old Hock, iu cases of 40 dozen etch
Glass Tumblers, io pints and balf-pint»
Window Glass, in boxes, of different |i*M
Hazlenuts, in frclu
Whiting
& Spanifli Brown j
Tor S&'e by
EETBR BLIGHT.
January 4
\Volv?At%i>e <ga;ttte.
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVEWING, MAY .8.
Itorjldtl frotv the " COURIS* BKS De.
A #A»T£»IE^J."
l~fi£ following letter, written by an em!
prant of diltinftion, who hut withdrawn to
liaden, was intercepted :
" You may rely on it (fays the author)
that the Ccar Paul detella the republican no
tioas ; hi* and oVtlinate disposition
will serve the cause of king*. Ido not think
of peace, although the count d'EkeUetn it
at Paris on the part of the emperor. This
Hiinitter of the moment is the friend of the
emigrants; he has penfioaed foveral of them ;
1 do not know a man more anti-demociatic
than he. From these data you will conclude,
my friend, that the cabinet of Vienni do*s
not wifli for, and that it will n«t make, peace.
All that it does it to dazzle the eyes of the
populace, and to throw all the blame of wilh
ing to continue the war on the French go
vrrnmcHt ; so that we are to expett new
ftrugglet and more battles."
Moliere has ludicrously made hit phy
sician reverse the position of the heart; and
anatomists have proved, the anoma's
of nature, the verification of hit fancy. In
the fafhionable world, at great a change Kas
taken place in our own time ; for the heart
that used to pant above the tucker, now beats
bclcw the waijl.
Every thing it perfeftly tranquil at Paris.
The inferiptiont of citizent on the register
of eieftions are more numerous than at any
former period of the revolution, and the elec
tions promise to be condudted without tu
nnvlt or cabal. The (hock which has been
given to the public credit of England, will
contribute efTcntially to the consolidation of
the power of the French government, and to
the prevention of any clandiftine efforts at
this ciitical moment to i nard the march of
the conftitutien. [A'. T. Alinerva.]
Our cflrrefpondent obfervtt, and not, per
haps unjustly—That since the Prefident't
Proclamation convening both houses of C»n
grefs, cor.jefturehas been endeavouring to
fix upon the measures to be adopted in our
present embarr»ffed fitualion of affairs. One
opinion is, that an Embargo will but
a (lep so fatal to the country interest, would
not meet with general approbation, nor
would it, if long continued, be favorable to
the Treafury—lf it be temporary, or made
to last one, two, or three months enl\, it
could not produce *ety feriou3 evils to those
on whom it would be meant to operate, but
the efleits would-be pretty sensibly felt by
us. Yet, unltfs an embargo take place, and
while thcreexillsa possibility that veflels may
go and return fafe from the Weft Indies,
many will rifle (hipments, and of courfc
hazard their credit, and with it the intsrefls
of those they arc connected with. One con
sequence must be, that cauntry produce
would fall to nearly the old prices, and enable
people to livefomething cheaper than at pres
ent ; but then Weft India produdtions would
rife out of all ptoportion to the fail of ours.
On the whole, an embarga seems to be as
little to be wished as the capturing of our
reflels—both are pfegnant with evils—To
avoid both seems however, impracticable.
What then is to be done ? Some fay, dif- s
patch a special envoy to France, as we did to
Great-Britain—but he must be of principles
congenial to those of the Direftory, or he
will experience the fate of general Phckney.
If we fend Mr. Jefferfon or Mr. Madison, or
any othej, whose politics are of the fame
.cast, we may perhaps get a treaty, but it
will be little better than a declaration of war.
fiance, elated by her fuce.efles, will not listen
to any terms (horl of an abfnlute renuncia
tion of our treaty with England. ]f the
ambassador makes fueh a treaty, we fltould
certainly refuf* ratifying it, and then war en
fuetmoft inevitably. There is no alternative.
In the mean time, while the envoy is gone,
vigorous preparations for defence ftiould be
(joing forward, and our readiness to repel in
sult, be co extensive with the disposition, on
the part of others, to give it. After the
patience with which depredations on our
property has been borne, and after evincing
a strong desire to maintain peace at the ex
pense of almost unbounded facrifices, the
FtopLE, by whom are meant to be understood
REAL AMERICANS, would cordially
unite in a very sincere abhorrence of their
unrighteous oppressors, and those who ad
vocate them—Against the former they would
aft with the energy of union if haltihty be
c:me necefTary—The latter would probably
be compelled to seek an asylum in their
vorite country, or undergo the treatment ex
peri.nced by the enemies of American inde
pendence at the beginning of our revolution
—This wonld be perfeflly reasonable ; for
no man who is a friend to the enemies of his
country, and an open enemy to that country,
Ihoold, in timet of trouble, when their un
derhand contrivances may be detrimental, be
permitted to live there. [JV. T. D. A.~\
LONDON, Afarch 15. I
Ministers have a Yind of precedent for the )jte
n& of council, which their adherents have not
yetqnoted, in their juftification, and as it happen
ed in the good timet of Charles 11. it would un
doubtedly have peat weight. This wis when the
famous lord Shaftefbury advised.the kirg to (hut
up the exchequer. The miniftert liavj, indeed,
done much mere than that desperate minijter at
tempted, lor by their profufion they leave every
department of thepoblicfervice in arrear, and by
requiring the bank to flop payment, they have at
or.ee refufedtp pay the just demands of the public
debtflr, and raptcioufly fuzed on a 1 the property
of individsals in every deposit to which their grasp
coald extend.
The people in London flock in crowdt to the
bank to demand payment in specie. Paris, on the
other hand, it perfcflly tranquil. The people
here crowd a» where but te the tavern and the
theatre.
Some of the Paris papers gi*es the title ef mis.
fionarieito the who were landed ia Walri
—No doubt from the fimitarity »f «hjca which
they had in view with those which have dilated
an 4 diftinguiihed moll mi£Donaries— a spirit of dc
vallatiou and plunder.
Mii'lfti rscompli'.in th-t the hancft inJtfctetion
of Mr. Windham has frequently proved hurtful to
tlteir cause. His late contemptuous obferv.vion
about the favingt of candle ends and bits of cheese
was thought rather personal to ibme who have
fnpported this just and necefTary war, but who
now hefitateat the eipenee, as they are in danger
of beirg feratehed.
Chenier, the poet and metrber of the council »f
five hundred, lately fought a duel with citizen
Kxibourg; Chenier had thought proper ta treat
some civi'ities which the latter had (hewn to his
miitreft, in rather a choleric maimer, which the
odier resented hy a box on tie ear, and a kick on
the screech. The poet claimed the privilege of ink
and lampoon upon this inl'nlt, bat was informed
by his friend that the muses had nothing to do
with the affairs, andhismiftrefs r«fu!ed to fee him
any mere until he had added tne trophies of the
. herp to the laurels of the poet. Chenier challeng
ed his adversary, wham he severely wounded, and
he is sow employed ill recording his victory in
" Pindaric ode."
Petition for the dismissal of the present
Minijlry.
Guildhall, London, March 24.
ADDRESS AND PETITION.
Yesterday being appointed for the hold
ing of a Common Hall of the Livery of
the city of London, the Guildhall about
twelve o'clock was crowded with the Li
verymen, in the place allotted, and all
the galleries round that end where the Lot
tery is drawn, were filled with ladies and
gentlemen
At one o'clock the Lord Mayor, Alder
men, and other City Officers took their
places, and it was impossible not to observe
with what ardour and acclamation Alder
men Combe, Skinfter, Newman, and some
othert were received, when they bowed in
passing the Livery, while marks of insult
ing disapprobation were shown to others.
The Court being opened with the usual
formalities, the Lord Mayor opened the
proceedings by faying, that in consequence
of a requiiition made by a competent num
ber of Liverymen, he had convened"them
to take into consideration a motion to be
made, " That an humble Address awd Pe
" tition be presented to his Majesty upon
" the present »larming state of public as
" fairs, and praying him to diftnifs his
" present Ministers from his Councils for
" ever, as the firft step towards obtaining
" a speedy, honourable, and permanent
" Peace." This fubje£t, his Lordship said,
he would leave to their decision, without
making any observation whatever.
Mr. Waddington then came forward.
He was delegated, he said, to present to
them that day, a motion of the utmost im
portance to themselves and to their coun
try. A system hatl for a longtime part been
pursued, of erefting a barrier between the
crown and the people, but he trusted that
the time was now arrived when the ave
nues of the. throne would once more be
opened, never more to be closed. There
was once a time when Eriglllhmen knew
how to claim their just, hereditary, and in
defealible rights, and knowing how to
claim, they knew also how to aflert them.
But unhappily of late, measures had too
fuccefsfully been taken to (hut the mouths
of the people, and in proportion as their
voice vaa ftifled, were their grievances
encreafed. They had seen, from time to
time, all their liberties abridged, their
public meetings prohibited, and even an
attempt made to defeat theunqueftionable
right of the Liverymen of London to as
semble in. Common-Hall that day. The
period was at length arrived, when their
misery or happiness depended on them
selves. He would forbear at present to
dwell on the dreadful calamities which the
Minilters of the crown had brought upon
their country. If he were difpol'ed to do
so, they were far too numerous for recapi
tulation ; and it was not now his purpose
to reproach the frailties of human nature.
The Livery of the City of London would
not this day cry out for punilhment, tho'
they must claim redress:—They fought not
" indemnity for the past," but " security
for the future."
It was, however, impossible for them to
(hut their eyes against the inipoveri(hed,
graded and miserable condition to which
the nation was reduced. They must fee
the horrors of a deftruftive war, devour
ing up their resources—the nation depopu
lated, bankrupt, and yet these very Mini
lters, who brought this mighty nun upon
them, (till retain their places, and pursue
the fame course of measures. They could
not forget the conduft of these Ministers
in the memorable 27th of February, and
observing all these things they must imitate
the spirit and vigour of their ancestors.The
only remedy for these complicated evils,
was peace; but peace, while the present
administration continued, was not to be
expected. Feeling then the present, and
dreading the final misfortunes that threat
ened them in the climaxot'thefe measures,
he (made no doubt of their unanimously
concurring in the motion lie was about te
propose.
He then moved the Address and Petition
to his Majesty, as already stated, and was
seconded by a Liveryman, whose name we
do not know.
On the (how of hands, it appeared to
be carried unanimously; but on a more
fcrutinous examination it was found that
there were five or fix hands held up against
it.
The Lord Mayor then declared that the
question was carried in the affirmative.
Mr. Waddington aga'm catne forth with
a Petition to his Majelty, which he said, he
(liould propose without any comment; for
comments could only oblcure that which
needed no elucidation. He then proposed
the Petition to his Mafelly, couched in ve
ry (Irong language, expressing that they
approached the Throne in deepest affliction,
and after enumerating all the effects that
flowed from the miscarriages of the pre
sent war, and after ascribing them all to
the tnifcondutt of his Majelly's Ministers,
humbly solicits him as the only means of
procuring a peace, so much wished and
wanted by the nation, to difmtfs from his
Councils forever his Miuilters and secret
advisers.
Mr. Alderman Skinner seconded this mo
tion in a very temperate and fenliblefpeech.
He confidcred the happiness of them to de
pend in a great ineafure on the adoption of
the Petition now presented to them. He
had been for upwards of thirty years a Li
veryman of that city, and never did he
know any question agitated, that approach
ed in importance the subject that was now
before them. They saw the ruifl that was
brought upon the country, a ruin so nearly,
complete, that it was difficult to think
how that completion could be averted.
The most likely means of avertiugit would
obviouflybe a peace, but the atlminiftr*-
tion of the country was wholly devoted to
.the continuance of the war. J/e had re- '
volved this subjeCt very i'oridufly in his
mind, and he would tell them what was
the result of his deliberations—He was
sure that they would never think of ascrib
ing to him any other motives but those of
the public welfare, with which was con
nected intimately, that of thi Corporation
to which lie had the honour to belong. In
the whole of his public conduct they could
perceive nothing which had any other ob
jcCt than the difeharge of his duty, and the
forwarding of their interelts. That was
his highelt honour,, his greaftft gratifica
tion, ■ and the only reward that he ever
did cr ever would accept.
To conlider the llate of national affairs,
to which he before aimed, it would be ne
cefi'ary to contrail the circuiiiftances of the
country, as they flood at the commencement
of the war in 1795, with its present situa
tion. In the year 1792, the debl-of the na
tion amounted to about two hundred and
twenty mil lions, the interest for Which was
about nine millions three hundred thousand
pounds, or there-about. The annual ex
penditure was about sixteen millions, its
income as much, and we were going on ve
ry well. Since the present war the debt of
the country had increased one hundred and
feventy-five millions, and upwards; and
the whole of it at present was four hundred
millions, the interest upon which was it
millions and upwards. Our annual expen
diture was twenty millions, to defray which
we had about sixteen millions of income.—
Taking the cafe of the country then as
men would that of an individual, how was
it possible, withoul bankruptcy, that things
could be made to go on ? But, unfortunate
ly, a national bankruptcy had already taken
place, and bad as our situation was at pre
sent, what were our prospeCts for the fu
ture ? Of the loan of la.it year v three mil
lions remained yet unpaid, asd, of course,
itill to be provided for. The Minister had
just concluded another loan of twelve mil
lions, and Ihould the war continue, mult
before Michaelmas raise forty millions
more. This was a serious and alarming
confederation. In 1792, the Consols were
at 90 or 91; at the present moment they
were at jo and under all these accumulated
difadvsntajes of bankruptcy, decay of trade
depression of credit, &c. &c. how thecoun
try was to be retrieved, was aconfideration
which could scarcely be looked at without
the utmost dismay.
He congratulated the company on the al
mofl perfect uftaniinity which they display
ed on the motion firft proposed to them;
and this led him to fay a little on the nun
t;er in which the decilions of Common-Halls
had frequently been treated. He had heard
it often aliened, that the sense of the Com
mon- Hall did not convey the sense of the
Livery of London. This he undertook
positively to deny. He was then addrefling
upwards three t/nufand gentlemen, who ap
proved the measures propol'ed to them With
almofl perfett unanimity. The Livery of
London consisted of from eight or nine thou
sand persons who had beep summoned, and
called upon by public avertifement to attend
this meeting. When three thousand of
this number appeared, with only a very few j
individuals to oppose them, he maintained
that their fejntiments > thus publicly given,
were those df that Livery of London ; be
cause, if there was any considerable num- :
ber of a ditFerent opinion, the Hall, the re
gular place for giving their decision, was j
open-to receive them. But it wasalledged
that a ballot in the refpsCti've Wards had
generally contradicted the opinions expres
sed in the meeting of the Common Hall.
How were these ballots conducted ? Under
the inspection of persons in authority from j
the Treasury, the Ctiftoms, the Bank, the
India Houfe—ln fine, under such controul,
that the Liverymen, without ruin to them
selves, were not at liberty to vote in favour
of their real sentiments. Upon those
grounds he was warranted to maintain,
that the Common-Hall alone pronounced
the real sense of the Liverymen of London.
Before he fat down, there was one subjeCt
more, which, though not connected with
the present one, he would nevertheless in
cidentally mention—This was the plan now
nowgoingforwardsfor building Wet Docks
at Wapping. The success of such a mea
sure would irretrievably ruin some thou
sands of the families of worthy citizens.
He spared ho paiirs or endeavours to oppose
it, and any of them who should call upon
him at any time, should find him a fleady
afliflant, ready to devote his time and his
labour—every exertion within his means
to defeat the scheme of the merchants.
This speech was received with the loudefl
applause.
Mr. Alderman Newnham fpokc In so low a
tone of voice, that we could colled but very
little of a speech which he read from a Iheet
of paper. He said, however, that he had
been one of that Livery about 50 years, and
always observed that progressively, from
time to time, one or othsr of our privileges
had been occasionally frittered away. But the
strides made towards dtfporifm in the last
few years exceeded all that had been in tho
many preeeeding ones ; -and it was only by
some vigorous exertions, to which the busi
ness of the present day might be a prelode,
that the liberties of the people could be re
llored, and the country preserved from de-
ItruCtion. He enumerated, under five dif
ferent heads, the progrelfive invasions made
by Government on the rights and intereftsof
the subjeCt, and concluded by recommend
ing the adoption of the present motion.
The opinions of the worthy Alderman
corresponding with those of the meeting,
and his venerable age produced a refpeCtful
silence in the Hall during his Speech, which
was fcarcdy audible.
Thequeltion was then put, and carried,
with the fame acclimation as the former one.
Mr. Waddington moved, That the Lord
Mayor, Aldermen, Sheiiffs, and City mem
bers be rcquefted to present this Petition to
his Majelty on the throne.
Mr. Hanfon,faid, as the City of London
had of late so little access orintercourfe with
the Throne, he was happy in the opportu
nity of seconding the present motion—which
was carried as before.
Mr. Taddy moved, that it be signed by
the Town Clerk ; which being seconded, was
also carried in the fame manner.
Mr. Hanfon, after some farcaflical remarks
on the conduit of those who endeavoured to
prevent the present meeting, and palling an
eulogium on those whose honorable perse
verance produced it, moved the thanks of
the Hell to the forty-three independeat Li
verymen, who have so honorable defended
the rights and privileges of the City of Lon
dwn, which vvafi fecorided and cjtuea as the
formei.
Mr. Har.fon next said, that he had another
motion to propose, which he doubted not
they would cheartully assent to. It could
not so soon have escaped their remembrance,
that for the advantages which might relult
from their prefeut meeting, they were ii
debted to the conllitutional conduit of the
Common Council, who refilled every allure
ment and every influence ihat could be used,
in order to secure them in their undoubted
privileges. They had lately been aflembled
for a purpose of a molt extraordinary nature.
When petfons met for objeCts of advantage
to their country, they might propeily be
called a Council ; but when they aflembled
for purposes averse to their liberties and in*
terefts, they might with equal propriety be
denominated a Cabal. In this fort of def
ciiption, the gentlemen alluded to, refufed
to be included, and he therefore moved the
thanks of the meeting to the Common Coun
cil of the City of London, for declining to
give «ny opinion on the propriety or expe
diency of calling a Commou Hall.
Mr. Wm. Smith, M. P. molt cordially se
conded the motion of thanks to a set of gen
tlemen, through whose means he had an op
portunity of addrefling them ; for if he had
been precluded from addrefling them then
as a Liveryman, as-he law now Hood, he
should not have in his power of addrefling
them, or any other meeting, so numerously
attended, at all. The conduit of the Com
mon Council on that oc«afion was tlrongly
contralied with that of their worthy chief
magillrate (for whatever he might think of
this strange proceeding, he must call him
worthy while fitting in that chair.) Speak
ing, however, as a citizen of London, he
could not forbear to fay that the conduit of
the Lord Mayor, in endeavoring to (hield his
refufal to aflemble a common hall, under the
fan&ion of an opinion of the court of com
mon council, did meet, and should ever meet
with his highelt disapprobation. He had
known his lordlhip for many years, and must
do him the juitice to fay, that as a private
gentleman hi* life was iireproachable ; and
as a merchant he had always displayed the
diligence, punctuality, and integrity which
beeame that character. Some-time after
wards he went into another cotirfe of life,
and became a servant of the executive gov
ernment. In tnat capacity also he conduct
ed himfelf very meiitorioufly ; and by his
ceconomy and honesty saved several thoufaad
pounds to the public purse, which, it was
well known, had been plundered by his pre
decefiors.. But, unfortunately, it seemed
that, in his present situation, he aould not
entirely divest himfelf of the other chara&er
of a servant of the executive government.
The voice, however, of the common coun
cil recalled him to a better recollection.
He congratulated the meeting on the una
nimity which, with the exception of five or
fix gentlemen, sow prevailed amongst them.
He honoured those few gentlemen, for the
firmnefs they displayed in support of their
opinions, though in truth he mult fay there
was nothing besides their firmnefs, for which
be could honor them. When only so few
persons amongst 9000 of the Liverymen of
London could be prevailed upon by any in.
fluence to come forward in the face of their
fellow citizens, and oppose the business of the
day, it was fair to infer, that amoogft the
whole 9000, there were no naore than those
five or fix individuals, who sincerely entertain
ed sentiments averse to the present proposi
tions. Whatever may afterwards be effected
by influence, compulsion, or corruption, more
powerful than the other two, it could never
be supposed to express the sense of the Liv
erymenof London.
He expeited the happielt effeCts to flow
from the refolutioni of this day, which would
evince to the whole kingdom that the metro
polis was sincere and ardeut.in its wishes for
peace, and would not cntruft the conclusion
of it with a set of men who had conducted
the war with as much inconfideration and
folly as they had originally engaged it. It
was well known that there generally prevail
ed through allthe nation, a desire for peace;
but this was the firft time that it had been
publicly and explicitly avowed by any great
public body, and he hoped that the example
o»se given would fpeediiy be followed by all
the great towns in the kiggdom.
The lord mayor next presented himfelf,
but was, at firft, exceedingly ill received.
He did not mean, he said, that day to have
troubled them with any iddrefs, but he ho
ped his fellow-citizens would refleCt, that if
their firlt magillrate would not attempt to
defend himfelf when attacked, he was un
worthy the situation to which they had cleCtcd
him. He thanked not the honorable gentle
men for the compliments he paid him—the
honor and integrity of his character needed
no tellimony from him. He had been forty
years a member for the city of London ; and
the propriety of his conduit in that capacity,
as well as in private life, he believed, no man
would gainsay, for no man did he ever do an
injury. What opinion his fellow-citizens en
tertained of him, was proved by their eleCting
him into three fucccflive Parliaments; and
their sense of the manner in which he dif
chrfrged his duty as their representative, was
(hewn by the thanks which he had the honor
to receive from them. He had been employ
ed in the service of the executive government,
and was entrufled with an important part of
the public purse. Did he difeharge that trull
honettly ? Witness, after the length of his
important employments, the feantinefs of his
fortune—and what temptation for mal-ad
miniftration was there in a man, who covet
ed neither honors nor emoluments.
How dared the honorable gentleman to
then aflert, that he was a man incapable of
diftinguilhing between his gratitude to the
executive government, and his duty as chief
magillrate of the city of Louden ? He was
no longer a servant of the executive govern
ment, and he would not fay at the fame time
that he was unthankful for the confidence
they reposed in him. But his fortune was
not mended by that confidence—he owed
every thing to hi* fellow*citizens, and his
liljjtieft ambition was to difcTiarge the c'»ti<r»
of hi 9 high offiue with justice, with liboality,
and with honor. As to the immediate fub
jcft of the charge raade agaiofl him, he would
lay th»t when the requisition was made to
him to call a common hail, "ha thought it
proper to take Come time to consider of it.
'Ha afterwards conftilted the cotltt of com
mon council merely as frienas, whose advice
might be of fctvice to liitn ; but determined
that ultimately his <\wn judgment should go
vern his decision. It (bould also be cunfider
ed that in consulting the court of common
council, he was by no means singular, as his
predeceflors had done the fame on hmilaroc
cafions. His lordlhip concluded with pro
feflions of attachment to his countiy and to
the livery of London.
The quefiion was then cut, and carried in
the affirmative.
Mr. Hanfon reminded them of the refolu
tien of the last hall, and its reprobation of
money being sent out of theeountry without
the confert or knowledge of Parliament, at a
time when it was fitting. They inftrufted
their representatives upon that occafien ; but
some gentlemen in that lituation represented
their constituents, some represented the tpi
niftry, and others represented themselves.
Mr. Aldeiman Combe, on that occasion, re
prefeHted his constituents, and had his col
leagues done the fame, we might not now have
been reduced to a national bankruptcy. He
then proposed the thanks of the meeting to
Mr. Alderman Combe, their worthy rcpre
fentative, & .was fcconded by Mr. Waithman,
which was carried in the fame manner as the
other propofllions.
Mr. Waithman moved, That the resoluti
ons be printed in all the morning and evening
papers, which was seconded by Mr. Cjx,
and agreed to.
The Court then adjourned.
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufactured as nfual,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Bsrton Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-calk or gallon—suitable
far exportation or home confumptien—
For Sale by
John Haivorth.
No. 98 south Front ftrjet.
May iS th+w
Millinery Room,
No. 136 Market-flrcet.
MISS CHXYSTAL
TAKES an early opportunity of acquainting
her Friends that (he has received by the
William Pinn, a,variety of NEW MIL
LINERY, Ice* which flie hopes to be able to
fcew them in a few days.
May 18 J jot
Brig Gayosa
On Saturday, the 10th inft.
At the Merchants Coffee-
At 7 o'clock in the evening,
SHK will be in good order, having been just
hove down, and may take in a cargo im
mediately, and b« sent to feaat little or no cx
penfe. Inventory to be fees, and terms made
known at the time of sale.
Philad. May ig. $tS
,
To be rented,
And PojJrJJion given immediately,
A large, commodious Stone
Dwelling-House,
STABLE, Coach-Heul'e and Garden, situate at
the lower end of Germantowjif about five
->n.d a half miles from the City.
Apply to
JOSEPH SHOEMAKER,
No. 120 North Second jlreet.
May 18 4
Landing,
From the schooner Swallow, Donne, majler,
from Gonaives, at Clifford's wharf,
340 Bags COFFEE,
24 Bales COTTON.
For Sale b)
'John Clark.
No- 55 north Water-street.
May 18 §
Caution.
THE Public are hereby forewarned against
trufhng the ftep-daughterof the Sublcrib
er, and her mother, his second wife. Repeated
mifconduA compels him to forbid any person to
give them credit on his account, as lie will pay
no debts of their contracting after this date.
LUNO BROWN.
Philadelphia, May r6, 1797 iS—th3t
Lailson's Circus,
South Fifth-Street.
The Performances at the NEW CIRCUS
This Evening, May 18,
Y\ ill begin by a Gi and Parade of Equeftriai*
Performers of both sexes.
A Grand Display of Horfemanlhip.
Mr. Lailfon will pick up several Handker*
chiefs in a single tour round the Circus.
The DUEL ON HORSEBACK,
In a forcible manner.
A Pantomime on Horfrback, c _.d
.The DEA I H OF BUCEPHAi.tiS.
After which, the laughable scene of the Tay
lor and his Horse. »
By desire of a refpe£lable number of perfonl,
(for th < last time) the evening's entertainment
to conclude by a grand hiflorical pantomime*
called
The American Heroine.
Box, one dc? ar. Pit, half a dollar.
; The doors will be opened at half pad five
o clock, and the performances begin preciftly
at seven.
N. B. No person can be admitted in the centrt
of the Circus, which is exclulivcly appropriated to
the Equcflrian Exercises.
No person can be admitted without a ticket,
which will fcrve for the day only.
Days of performance, Tuesday, Thursday,
and Saturday.PHILADELPHIA, %
THURSDAY EVENING, MAY 18, 1797. c 3
B
PRICES OF STOCKS. nc
— — ~ an
Philadelphia, Mat 18.
6 per Cent. 16/10 T
Deferred 6 per Cent. 16/6 i 11/
5* Cent.
4> per Cart.
3 per Cent. 10ft a 4 nt
BANK SHARES. lei
Bank United States, 19 i3O per cent, advance. ne
Pennsylvania, 23 a 24 fa
North America, 45 ha
INSURANCE COMPANY SHARES. an
1. C. of N. A. 13 dolls. 25 cents per (hare
Pennsylvania, at par.
- _ T
ExtraS of a letter from London, received by ta
the WtlUam Penn w |
" Our attention, for some days pad, has ft,
been taken up by a publication from the es
Bank, fignifying it was ihc order of govern
ment that they (hould decline the payment of
specie, to which effeft an order of council
was issued. The avowet>-(and I believe ge T
uoine) reason is—That country people aud be
others equally pusillanimous have become ap- mi
preherfive of danger by an invasion, and have th
in consequence been converting all their pre- an
perty, as far as in their power, into hard-ca(h. ba
This, of course, has produced a great tun for pa
money on the provincial banking establish- hi
m«nts ; and many of them, on this account, a i
have been under the oeceffity of (lopping li(
payment, tho' possessing fufficient funds to fei
discharge more than treble the amount of ril
their out-standing paper. To prevent there- (h
fore the extension of this e+il, which would
have drained the nation of its circnlating me- I
diurri, to the gieat embarraflment of all an
pecuniary tranfaflions, is the reason of this
bold and strenuous measure. It has met the
approbation and promised support of the B
greater part of our peers and firft rate com- D
moners, as well as a great majority of bank- f' l
ers, merchants, traders, &c. Bat although
its neceflity i 6 undoubted, still from the great
delicacy which attaches ta the credit of the
Bank of England (which however has given w
the most undoubted proof of its abundant sol- w
vency) I sincerely hope the reftri£lioii will P 1
be but of Stort continuance." al
ai
We are informed that Don Joseph Igna- P
tius de Viar, commissioner on the part of his
Catholic majesty, and Mathew Clarkfon, '1
commissioner cn the part of the United States ''
of America, have agreed on the cfioiee of ~
Samuel Breck, of the city of Philadelphia,
S3 the third commissioner, to carry into ef- n '
feft tbe twenty-firft article of the treaty of
friend (hip, limits and navigation, between the P
United States and his Catholic majesty, for
thr purpose of terminating all differences on
account of the lofles sustained by tbe citizens (,
of the United States, in consequence of their p
vessels and cargoes having been taken by the t
fubjeSs of his Catholic majesty, during the f,
late war between Spain and France. e
t
COMMUNICATION. .
It is reeoramended to every person who wi(h- a
es to obtain correct notions of the intentions,
views, and relative strength and weakness of the v
European nations, to read " The Politics of the F
Cabinets of Europe, during the reigns of Louis )
XV. aid XVI" Count de Broglio, in a paper s
in that work, mentioning Holland, observes, r
" that it fears every thing, complains of every t
thingt and defends nothing." Such appears to
be the line of eonduil which our Gallo-Ameri
can democrats recommend to the United States :
■viz. "to fear France, to fuffer every thing from l
France, to complain of every thing, and to 1
defend nothing." This is certainly a poli- j
cy which would be very gratifying to France, ,
but it is one which must soon reduce-us to A ,
COMPLETE DEPENDANCE ON FRANCE.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OE REPRESENTATIVES, '
iVednefday, May 17.
The House proceeded to the choice of a j
Chaplain (Dr. Green being nominated) and
the ballots of the members having been col
lefted, McflYi. Livingfton and Craik were
appointed Tellers; when the votes were found
to be as follow
Far Dr. Green, 60
Dr. Priestly, 1 2
Mr. Carroll, z
Mr. Helmuth, I
The House then resolved itfelf into a com
mittee of the whole on the speech of the
President of the United States, Mr. Dent in
the chair. After the fpeeeh had been read
by the Clerk,
' Mr. Craik said he had prepared a resolu
tion, the fame in substance as it had been
■usual to pass on forme;' similar
Vhich he should fubfoit to the consideration
of the House. It was in these words:
•' Resolved, that it is the opinion of this
committee, that a refpe&ful address ought to
be presented by the House of Representatives
to the President of the United States,
fwer to his fpeeeh ta both Houses of Con
rreft, at the commencement of this session,
containing assurances that this House will
take into consideration the various and im
portant matters recommended atten
tion."
The resolution was carried unanimously,
and the committee rose and reported it. The
House then took it up and agreed to it.
On motion, M«(Trs. Venable, Grifwold,
N. Freeman, Kittera and Rutledge, were
appointed a committee to prepare an address
accordingly.
Mr. Williams moved that the fpeeeh of
the President be committed to the committee
of the whole Houfeou the ftateof the union.
Agreed.
No farther bufsnefs beiag before the House,
a motion was made and carried to adjourn.
From the Farmer's Weekly Museum.
TROM THE SHOP OF
Mejrt. Ccloh b" Spondee.
ARISTOCRACY.
I HAVE looked into my Entiek, and
be fays, that it is a governiiunt by nobles. M
Heaven prefe'rve us from aristocrats; they
would cut all our farms into lordships, and
fell us for flav»>. So fays my neighbor Fi
Grumble, and he knows, for he is what they M
call adithanorary member of a jacobin cjub. )
But pray, my dear jealous countrymen, are D
not all kind of ocracys, dreadful things— j
and are they not running rampatit among as ? G
Yes—there is your I A
HOGOCRACY: :S(
That is where an booby has blundsr- S<
ed into a great estate, and has the riches, : H
without the education, sentiments, or man- j J)
ntrs of a gentleman. His pride and info- M
lence form a horrid hogocracy over his poor ' M
neighbors—Mote happy is-the Ruffian pea- H
fant, ftjld with the land he ploughs to his j St
haughty Beyar, than the tenant, or depend- I P,
ant of fach a bogocrat. • I p,
Then there it your i Q
PIGOCRACY: St
The pigocrat may be knawn by his long pig's
tail, bound with fix yards of ribband, his
wheat meal and lard upon his head, and his p.
(hrill dolorous whine ; with these he establish
es a tyrannical pigocracy over the blooming p (
generation of young ladies. p (
Then there is your i
RIBOCRACY: I(J
That is, when the married lady discards the j
bewitching drapery of the (kirt, for the im-
mem<irable insignia of the man, and rules p
the conjugal roast—when (he negle&s the pic
and pudding, and feolds politics at her huf.
band's visitors ; and after haviHg infuhed tbe
patience of the good man by day, awakes
him by night to the refrefhing eloquence of
a curtain ledture. Such a woman has eftab- „
lifhed aDa** ** * * —l dare not at pre- p
sent fay what—as, unhappily, my own dear
rib now cads a loving laak oyer my left ..
(boulder. . r
N. B. My wife is a profound politician— p
I wish you could hear her talk upon liberty
and equality.
Then there is your
MOBOCRACY.
But I beg pardou, this is only a species of
Democracy 1 fay again, heaven preserve us
from all ocracys.
• L
To the Loters of Cider.
WHAT would you give to destroy the
whole race of the Caterpillar !—Give I—l ~
would give more than I'll fay—but it :s im
possible. I have tried experiments, until 1
am tired. Yes, you have tried flaming tow
and lamp oil ; you have shot their nelts to 1
pieces, tvith yourmufket, and pulled them
down with your long forked pole ; and all
this you have done, on rainy days, when
the caterpillars weremoftly within their nests
—and you have found, to your mortification,
that thev would often repair their nests the
next day, or if you decreased the number far
the present season, they were, alter all your
pains, as numerous the next.
NO IV MIND ME.
You have often observed that, at a cer- £
tain time in the summer, the caterpillars ap.
pear to quit their nests entirely, and even the
trees, and wander over the fields and on the t
fences. This generally happens, the latter f
end of June, or the beginning of July. Be
that as it may, when ever this happens, do
you take the old dried nest, 6reak it open,
an<2 within it you will find a little pod, fame- f
what like the silk worm's cone ; destroy that 1
pod, for it contains the parent of the next t
year's race'of caterpillais; which like the
queen bee, produce, the whole f.mily. This ,
must be done, soon after the caterpillar quits j
the nest for out of this pod comes a miliar <
fly, who foims round and upon the finall 1
blanches of the appW, or wild cherry tree, <
the latter (he seems to prefer, a number of |
little calls, in which (he deposits her eggs, ]
and then covers them with a gluey substance, ;
which effeftually preserves them, until the
next fpring—hinc illius ortus. Hence springs j
the caterpillar family. _ (
Now let the farmers, in a town, or vicini
ty, agree to search for the proper time, and i
effeftually to destroy these pods, and my
word for it, their ncighbouihood (hall be a
land of Gofhen the next year.
U. UNDERHILL.
An equalization of weights and measures
; being aceompli(hed throughout France, a
new claflification of terms is adopted. The
above equalization is upon decimal princi
ples, and fa far, eorreft ; but in the French
coinage of words to cxprefs the different
measures, we hear tbe gypfey (tile, and claffi
" cal ears are wounded with the guttural founds
: of " decagramme," " ha&ogramme," " my
-1 tiagramme," and " kiliogramme." Thelaft
3 word, we think bears no very obfeure relation
to the new order of things in France.
1 Greenleaf, printer of the Argus, a rrpubli
' can paper at New York, has been tried before
1 the circuit court of the United States for a
libel, found guilty, and fined seven hundred
8 dollars. May the punishment operate in ter
-0 rorem, and may there ever be energy enough
' in our government to cru(h the cotkatricesof
sedition.
'• The late fuceeffes of the French in Italy
" were celebrated at Kensington, near Philadel
phia, by a junto of Gullo Americans, who,
'• in the red tide of liberty, in the flowing
bumper of Buon|parte washed away difere
'' tion and the image of their native country,
le
From the New IVoxld-
By the late arrivnV. from Spain, we have
re received an official Census of that kingdom,
fs stated at full length. It fuggells so many
intcrefting views of the fitualiran of Spain,
that we present a translated abftraft ef it to
cf the readers of the New World.
»• The Census was taken in tbe year 1787,
and it appears that the number of fouls then
Ic » amounted to 10,268,150, viz.—
Males, 5,109,172
Females, 5>'55'97^
10,268,150
Part of this population
is divided into the follow*
nd ing claflet, vi*.—■
Main belonging to vari- J u "
cms religious orders and
inditutions; 62.249
Fem.ilel, do. the;
Managers of the church 1
property, 13,244 " e .
Do. of subordinate church
affairs, «• 10,774 £JJj
Gently, por
Advocates or lawers, 5,917 are
Ssriveners, notaiies and cleiks, 9,611 tills
Scholars, s®-994 '
Hufljsndmen, 907,197
Day labourers, 964,571 (j,,.
Merchants and traders, 34,339 rcf<
Manufa&urers, 39>75® inl
Handicraft men or mechanics, 270,989
Servants, 28(5,092 t^e
Perlons in the pay of the king, 36,465 j u fl
Persons with military privileges, 77,884 to J
Dependents on the inqailltion, 2,705 nat
Sewarts ot agents of religious
orders, 4,127 " at
Religious dependents on alms, 1,844 frie
Paupers craving charity, 7i®3° kn<
Male students in colleges, ' 6,430 rc g
Female, do. 1,298 lm j
Poor in hospitals, employed, 5,573 zal
Infirm or disabled men in hospitals, 7.699 i„v
I u firm or disabled women in do. 3> an <
Lunatics (men) 359 " CI
Do. (women) 336 JJ.
Persons keeping religious houses pul
to entertain their brethren l at(
travelling, 616 pre
Men in do. 3,83 1 ' on
Women in do. 4>937
Boys in do. 1,926 0 f
Girls in do.' 1,753 fen
Persons employed in keeping mo
theprifons. 124
Male prisoners, 1.205
Ftmale do. 650 cat
Persons employed in keeping act
the Foundling hospitals. 173 noi
Male children in these bofpi
"ls, / 3.530 W(
Female do. in do. 2,811 Gc
ou
The whole population consists of cri
Unmarried males, 2,926,229 ™
Unmarried females, 2,753,224
Married men, *1,947,165
Married women, *1,943,496 an
j Widowers, 235,778 ex
Widows, 562,258 w
There arc in Spain. up
_ ' ' po
11,972 Partlhes. „f
2,067 Religions houses for the men. hr
2,122 Do. for the women. po
213 Colleges.
773 Hospitals.
26 Prisons. ut
51 Foundling Hospitals. » th
145 Cities.
4,572 Towns.
13,790 Villages.
1,511 Deserted places.' b,
Tbs population of 1787, exceeded that n<
of 1768, and'l769, by 960,346 feulei. al
__ rc
as
* The causes of the difference between
the number of married men and women are
not assigned. v
HARTFORD, May 15.
0» Thursday last the general election e f the
state of Connedicut was celebrated in this citj.
Th« day being plcafant, a large conc»urfe of ftran- ol
ger» attended thij joyous anniversary. 0 I
About twelve o'clock the procefSon, in the u
sual order, moved from the state house to the north '.
Prelbyterian meeting-house, when an excellent ''
sermon, peculiarly adapted to tl»c occasion, was 01
delivered to a crowded audience, by the Rev. Br.
Lewis, of Greenwich. The proceflien was pre
ceded by a band of muftc, a company of Cadets,
commanded by major Day; and escorted by a
company of horse ; both of which companies ex- rl
hibited proofs of a striA attention to difctpline, t(
and reflefted honor *n their refpedivc officer'!. tl
After the usual exercises »f the day, the votes :
for Governor,Lieutenant-Governor and Afliftants
being counted, it appeared that the following gen
tlemen werechofen, viz.
His Excellency OLIVER WOLCQ IT, Esquire, f'
Governor, I
The Honorable Jsnatuan Trumbui.l, Esquire, ]
Lioutenant-Governor.
Willian* Williams, Joseph P. Ceok, William J
Hillhoufe, fohn Treadwell,Roger Newberry, He
man Swift, Jonathan Ingerfol, Thomas Grofvenor, 1
Thomas Seymour, Aaron Auflin, Jeremiah Wadf
i worth, David Daggett, Efquircs, Assistants.
, Andrew Ktngfbury, Esq. Treasurer ; Samuel
*Vyllys, Esq. Secretary.
! SPEECH
" Of his Excellency Governor W©lcott, to both '
1 Houses of the Legislature oa Friday lail.
t G mile men of the Council, \
Mr. Speaker, and Gentleman tf the j
Htvfe $f ReprefcHtjtivts,
8 BY the favor of Divine Providence the interna!
* affairs of the state continue prosperous and happy,
t The unprovoked aggressions, made under the au
n thority of the French nation, on our external com
merce, by which we are affe&ed in common with
the other of the United States, have occasioned
such an extensive deftru«flion of property, and di
l' minution of the national revenme, that ithc lofies
e rtfulting therefrom will admit ©t no easy talcula
a culation. Should these depredations continue, the
( ] redu<stion of eur experts, and (of the pdces ©four
productions, and the check which will-£ given to
r " cnterprize and industry, will be injuries which will
" be very sensibly felt. There are, however, evils
>f of still greater magnitude which this conduit is
probably intended to produce ; but which it will
be more in the power ©four country t© prevent.
I We may trust that no facrifices will bethought
J too dear to be made, rather than resign our iia
tional charaJler, and our absolute independence.
As the obtaining of rcdrefs for national injuries,
ig and providing for our general security, are fub
je<sU which fall under the cognizance of our na
tional government, no other duties are therefore
incumbent on us relative thereto, but, as members
of the union, to carry into effect such measures as
the national administration shall prescribe. It may
however, be expedient to attend to such equip
n ments of the military force of the state as may
place it in a condition to a£t most extensively
when legally required ; and to provide such necef-
H > fary means for ©ur local defence as the national
to government may not probably afford.
By the last returns of the militia of the state,
m there can be no dovbt but there are many valuable
1 arms in their hands,thcugh not an adequate lupply
of lWh as may be depended upon fervice
There appeared to be a very considerable defici |
72 ency of cartridges; owing, it is said, to the great
78 scarcity and dearnefs ol powder. The other
equipments are very considerable, but not com-
CO Plcte
' It appears that some of the Matrofs Companies
are provided with brass field pieces ; but that
otheriare but partially supplied. None probably
with powder and ball fvfficicut for actual service.
5.1°9> , 7 2
S.'5 B '97 8
10,268,150
Juflice requires mc to wHferve thitt great nrili ary to h
ambition, mad regard to subordination appear in the £
militia, and that no dou;>t exists of their prompti- f rQU
tude to defend, when required, thofc rights which
they were conftitnted to preserve-
It is further proper for me to notice, that there con
are no military magazines cftabliftied in the state ; eng
and, although the general government has offered b U £
some to the important port of New-
London, yet, that we have a numSer of other
ports in the state of confideraSleconfequence, which ' lB /
are not furnifked with such heavy and efficient ar- P r,v
tiilery as are necefTary for their effectual defence. tain
In this view of our military arrangements and W J,|
equipments, and the general afpeA of our national
affair >, I fubmi't to the wisdom of the legifl-'ture ,
the expediency of appropriating such part of our 1
rcfourcesas may be necessary to place the state iti l,on
a more adequate condition of defenee. C
We fhail be happy if there be ground to believe
that better reflections will restrain the pursuits ct mof
the nation by whose condu& we more efpeci&lly ,
fuffer. But, when a nation shall alfume ths power t
to limit and dire& the commerce of every neutral lor
natien on which they can make an imprefiion,and wer
manifeft their firfl hostile dt by ads of gene- an< j
ral plunder, not only in violation of the laws ®i w
nature and nations, but of treaties and a profefleJ
friendfhip, it will be difficult to afcertaiu any ™ rl
known principles by which their conduct will be 3ga
regulated, or the limits they will impose on their the
ambition. vift
It cannot be doubted but the agents and parti
zans of the French nation have long endeavored to ,
involve this country in the calamities of war ;
and finding that our national adminifiration could ft" 01
neither be influenced nor controled, they have l'e- the
duloufly attempted to alienate the confidence and
affe&ions of the people from it. To effeift thii j )av
purpose they have assailed the charaAer of the
late supreme Executive of our nation —a character J
precious to America, and which will be revered as c * a y
long a» moral excellence shall be known andref- tlia
pe&ed by mankind. cd (
This nation has also refufed, with circumstances p rc
of indignity, to give audience to a minister lately
sent to them from this country, charged with the a l
most friendly embassy. v
Although we may be afTured that the Isnitcd con
States will wish to maintain the neutral ground (
which they have wifely assumed, and will depre- ma
cate the calamities of a war ; yet, under such an
accumulation of untoward circumstances, has it 1
not becemtour duty to prepare for a serious state ot
things ? Tel
Should matters be brought to the last neceflity, w h
we cann©t doubt but the Genius of A merica, that ;
Genius which the Almighty inspired to vindicate j . ■
our liberties and assert our independence, will ex- ]^ U '
crt itfclf with the most a&ive energy, and wiil j ed
convince the world that America, determined to be his
free, will never dispute about the qu*lijic*tions of a
master.
We are happy in our confidence in the wisdom „ .
and rsdtitude of the person to whom the national 1
executive power is at present committed. His * *
wisdom and stability has been often manifeftcd,
upon most important and trying occasions, in lup
port of the liberties, the honor and independence
of ©ur country ; and we have the fatisfailion to
hnow that foreign influence had no share in his ap-
pointment. **
There has been a diversity ©f opinion concern- T
ing the relative rank of f©me of the militia, from fp,
whence inconveniencies have resulted. To obviate
uncertainty in this refpeA, I would recommend to
the consideration of the legislature the expediency rr *
of ascertaining by an a<st of government, the mi
litary rank, so far as it is not already established by
the grades of effcee.
To whatever conclusions, gentlemen, your deli- aa
berati©ns shall lead, to promote the interest, happi- £
ness and security of the state, you will please to be
alTured, will meet with my most hearty concur- P r
rence, and that I shall be happy to render you every Si
assistance in my power, to facilitate the bufinefsof ar
the session.
- f 0
v 13y this day's Mail. h<
w
NEW YORK, May 17. a.
Died, on Sunday morning in the 571b year
of his age, Walter Livingston, P
of the Manor of I.ivingfton. He for many 1
years rcprefented tliil state in the Congrefj of V
the United States, tinderth« old confederati- j P
on ; and was one of the Commiflioneis of the 1
board of irealury. 1(
B A u r of A l B A N 1 • p
An Elcdlion was held in the Directors si
room on Tuef.lay lall, Cor the choice of thir
teen EiireiSlors, to manage the concerns of
the Bank for the current year ; and on an ef- 1
' timate of the ballot, it appeared that the sol- c
' lowing gentlemen were elefted, viz. e
Abraham Ten Broeck, Stephen Van Renf- I
, felacr, Goldlbrow Bunyar, Jeremiah Van (
Renflelaer, Jacob Vanderhcyden, Barent t
• Blecker, Eliftu Kane, Philip Van Renflelaer,
i James Caldwell, Robert M'Clallen, John C. f
' Cuyler, Abraham Van Veahten, George
, Peatfen. I
Abraham Ten Broeck, Esq. President.
CO NMV NIC AT lON. i
' We hear thaa Col. Bauman of the artillery
of the city and county, andallth« officetsof ,
l! that regiment have resigned their comnaiffions.
s)uere. What could induce the oflicers of
this rcfpe&able corps, unanimeadv, to Cend
in their commiflions } This being ;» circum-
ftance very ii ter-ftii gto the militia and th«
f [ public at large, it is expedled they will be iu
-- dulged with a statement of the fa6b (from
1 some quarter) that have produced this extra-
ordinary measure.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
19
a
at Port of Philadelphia.
U1 ARRirED. Days.
Ship William Penn, Jofiah, London, 42
il, Nancy, Lord, Liverpool, 42
is Philadelphia, Bliss, Bristol, 42
i" Liberty, Roule, Naples, 67
Brig Fair American, Stokes, Naples, 65
Sch'r Swallow, Duane, Gonaives, 11
Brig Charlton, Bilhop, Gomives, I £
(1 Honlbroske, Mc Call, Hamburgh, 49
jj_' Liberty, Uuvar, Alex*ndria, 4
u _ Eliza, Hitchcock, Wir.dfor.N: S. 14
)re Schooner Nelly. Dillingham, Conaivet, 14
ers I rieiv!\i T ip, Odlin, Jacquem.l, 19
a , Hannah, Pippinay, Salem, 13
2- Sloop EagU.Earle, R. Island 3
ip- Brig Mentor,Forrcfter, of this port, i» arrived
at'Belfail from North-Carolina. Ship Warren,
c ]y Church, failed with the Philadeljhia, for this
e f. port.
na l Arrived the Brig Houlhrook, M'Call, frarn
Hamburgh, left there March 15.
ite, Ship Adraftus, Pease, for this Part for Freight
ble A&ivc, Blair, do. t« fail soon
ply Brig Mary, Earle, de. do.
ice. Capt. M'Call failed in company with the
ici - Mary, Rice, arrived the 9thinft. at Portfinouth,
eat N.H Capt. M'Call does not confirm the ac
her count laid to be brought by the Mary, refpcdl
>m" ing Mr. Pinckney.
These anivals bring no news.
The America, captain Ewing, lajided her
biy paflengets at Dover.
rice. The (hip Thonw, captain Holland, was
to Irave Liverpool firll tide after tho Nancf )
Captain Lord, of the (loop May Flower,
from Antigua, mentions, that captain Mit
ford, of the frigate, came out to
convoy a number of American veffeJjj and
engaged to accompany them as far as lat. 2 2,
but returned in three days, and brought in
with him thefhip Maria, captain Cornel Fer
tis, of New-Yotk, re-taken from a French .
privateer,on her pafiag'e from Demarara. Cap
tain Mitford reverfej the Maria's colours,
which excited much disgust among the in
habitant* of Antigua, and the president of
the island expressed his pointed disapproba
tion of the iufult.
Captain Lord spoke the (hip Minerva, of
Nantucket, a whaler, from Brazil, out 15
months.
Captain Stoy, of the Amiable Creole, from
Port au-Prince, mentions that the British
were about attacking the town of Leogane,
and that the Queen (hip of war had failed,
with the intention of anchoring close to the
forts. If the land and sea forces do not
again become jealous about the plunder, and
the latter leave the former in the moment of
vi&oty, this important 'poll may fall into the
hands of the British.
Captain Tatein, of the brig Pennfylva'iia,
from St. Thomas's in 18 days, infotm3, that
the day before his departute a vcflVl arrived,
which brought intelligence of Porto Rico
having been captured by the British.
Arrived schooner Swallow, Doane, lS
days from Gonaives. Captain Daane informs
that general Touffaint Louverture is appoint
ed chief of thecivil and military department of
French St. Domingo, and had gone to the
Cape to step the iniquitous proceedings of
those monilers the civil commifiloners, in the
! condemnation of the Amtiican veficls.
On her paflage from Gonaives to St Tho
mas, last winter, the Swallow was taken by
the Kitty Sheen privateer, and carried into
the New Algier», To'tola, where both ves
sel and cargo were condemned, though the
whole belonged to native American citiz-ES.
1 However for a valuable consideration the hon.
! judge Leonard reverfid the decree and deliver•
|ed up both. Captain Doane fays, that during
his Hay at Tortola, upwards of £.200,009
America* property was condemned there.
The following {hipa were spoken by the
flip Charlotte, captain Bell, from Greenock:
April 11, in lat. 41, 58,10ng. 40. W. spoke
the {hip Alnomack, of George-Town, from.
Norfolk and bound to Arlillerdam, out 13
days, all well; May 3d, spoke the brig Ve
nus, captain Lunt,lat. 39, 42, long. 64
W. from Newburyport and bound to S:.
Thomas, out 6 days, all well; May 4th,
spoke the brig Fanny and Xetfey, captain
Shaclock, lat. 3«, 44, N. long. 73, 32, W.
from port Glasgow, and bound for Norfolk,
all well.
Providence, May 13.
Thursday evening arrived the brig Maria,
aapt. Whitney, in 34 days 'from Cayenne.
By kim we are advised of the fcizuie and
prompt condemnation of the brig Peace, capt,
Samuel Allen, of this port ; vefTel, cargo,
and specie on board, valued at 25,000 dol
lars. Capt. Allen was from Dover, bound
for Surinam, but touched at Cayenne, where
he had been f«veral days before the seizure
was made. The pretext was, hia being from
au Englilh port.
Same day arrived the {hip Susan, captaia
Pierce, in 148 days from Calcutta. On the
15th ult. in lat. 19, 40, N. long. 54, to,
W. fpoke'the (hip Rebecca, of Newbury
• < Port, Georgo Dewel, mailer, 32 days from
: ■ Ter.eriffe, bound to Jamaica —file was in a
leaky condition, being obliged to have one
pump constantly working, to keep the (hip
s free.
Arrived at Baltimore, May 16.
f Ship Maryland, Captain Graybell, from
Bstavia, and St. Helena, 118 days—sugar,
■ i coffee and spices—Robert Oliver and Broth
ers. Lat. 21, long. 59, spoke (loop Nancy,
Mitchel, from Baltimore to the Well Indies ;
n fame time spoke a brig ftom Nonh Carolina
t to St. Thomas's.
r, Brig Eleanor, Captain Philips, 23 day,
from Guadaloupe.
;e Sloop Robert and William, Captain Col
thard, 18 days from Pott-au-Prince.
Schooner Brother, Captain White, 18
days from Part-au-Prince.
y Brig Fell's Point, Captain Cteghton, 18
3 f days from Cape Nichola Mole.
*• The fhip3 Aurora and Jane and brijj
jf Hannah are in the bay, bound up.
id New-York, May 16.
1- ARRIVED. DATS.
14 Ship Jay, D yrc, Dublin 40
j. Swan, Woodham, Liverpool 59
m Brig Hannah, Edentun, St. 'Thomas 16
j. Lewis, King, Aux Cayes 16
Nancy, Jolytfon, New-Providence 12
Matilda, Warner, Philadelphia 16
Schr. Fanny Bridger, Dunn, do. 4
Regulator, Robins, Aux Cayes 17
Cipt. King, in 16 daysfrom Aux-Cayes,
informs, that a few days before ha failed, Gen.
2 Rigaud, with 9000 brigands, made an attack
i_ 2 on Irois, and was defeated with great loss.
Captain Fowler, of the schooner Sally,
arrived on Monday evening, after a pafiage
]- of 14 days frem St. Bartholomews. On the
( | 27th April was brought in there the fehooner
Weft, John Welt, malttr, from North Ca
rolina, by an English privateer, which had
taken her from the French privateer Flying
Fi(h ; the governor immediately ordered her
relloration to her captain, as well as the cap
tain's clothes which had been plundered from
him by the French privateer ; also was captu
red icJ to windward of Martinique, the barque
"j Mercury; Zebedi.h Farnham, matter, from
Demarara, and bound for Kennebeck river,
,3, which was retook on the 22d of April, by
a British frigate to windward of Dosninico.
;ht On the 30th, captain Fowler was brought to
ion by a French privateer ; they made him hoist
out bis boat and bring his papers on board—
after examining them they permitted him to
ar ' proceed. May 6, in lat. 26, N. and long,
; il- 67- 25, W. spoke the brig DeSance, captain
Whrdby, out of Potomac 15 days, all well.
On the 15th, spoke the Britifli {loop of war
her Alliance, a convoy to the American veJels
from Cape Nichola Mole, to the Capet of
was Philadelphia.Imported in tlx Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
I'ront-ftreet,
Hyson }
Hyson Skin CxEAS
Young Hyion t
Imperial J
April 20. t eo 'f
Canal Lottery,
No. 11.
Scheme of a Lottery,
Authorized by an aft, entitled, "an aft to
enable the Prefideatand Managers of the
Schuylkill and Sufquehannah navigation, to
raise, by way of Lottery, tfce sum of Four.
Hundred Thousand Dollars, for the putuofe
of completing the works, in their afts of
incorporation mentioned."
dollars
1 Prize of twenty thousand dollars, 20,00®
1 of ten thousand dollars, lo,coo
5 of four thousand dollars each, to
be paid to the poflefTors of the five
numbers firft out of the wheel on the
last day's drawing, at which time there
(ball not be less than 500 numbers un
drawn, 20,000
10 of two thousand dollars each, 20,000
20 of one thousand dollars each, 20,000
43 of-five hundred dollars each, 21,500
100 of two hundred dollars each, 20,000
100 of one hundred dollars each, 10,000
120 of fifty dollars each, 11,000
29500 of five dollars each, 147,500
30,000 Tickets at tea dollars each. 300,000
Six dollars for eich ticket will only be de
manded at the time of fsle.
All prizes (hall be paid ten days after the
drawing is finifhed, upon the demand of the
pofleflbr of a fortunate ticket, fubjeft to a de
duction of fifteen per cent.
Such prizes as are not demanded within 12
months after the drawing is finifhed, of which
public notice will be given, (hall be considered as
relinquilhed for the ui'e of the Canal and applied
accordingly.
At a Meeting of the President and Mana
gers of the Schuylkill and Sufquehanna
Canal Navigation—and the President and
Managers of the Delaware and Schuylkill
Canal,
Resolved, That Joseph Ball, John Steinmetz,
Standifh Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Croa,
John Miller, jua. ar.d William Montgomery,
be a committee to arrange and dire& the mode
of disposing of the tickets 1 which committee
(hall deposit this money in bank, to be carried
to the credit of an account to be opened for
the Lottery.
We the CommiSioners appointed by the Go
vernor to superintend the drawing of the Lot
tery, inform the public, that the tickets are
now rolling up, and that the drawing will po
sitively commence on Mondaythe 29th of May
next. *"
Frederic]! KM,
James AJh,
George Dudd.
Pbilad. April 17, 1797.
Tickets at fix dollars each to be had of the
managers, ®r at the canal office, near the bank
of the United States.
TO BE SOLD,
A valuable three (lory Brick House ;
SITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank of
Pennsylvania, the lot on which it stands, to
gether with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex
tends to Goforth-ftreet. The houle is about 50
feet in front on Lodgj-alley, and about 42 feet
in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 fe«
front on Lodge alley, and 42 feet on Goforth
ftreet, being a street which leads from Chefnut
ftreet and Carter's alley into Dock-street at the
horse market. The house consists of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dining
rooms, one of them forty feet in length, the
other about thirty-four feet, each containing
two fire places, two parlours and a large kit
chen, with extensive cellars under, and garrets
over the whole, a privilege of a vacant lot
of ground to the eastward between this house
and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
yard, a handsome piazza fronting the vacant
lot, and a frame liable and dwelling house on
Goforth-ftreet. The premises now rent for
£.318 per annum. To be fold clear of all in
cumbrances.
For terms apply to John Clement Stacker.
April »o 3awtf
For Sale,
At the Office of the Gazette of the United
States, No. 119, Chefnut-ftreet,
The laji Report of the late Secretary
of the Treasury ; b«ng a brief history ©f the
state of financial concerns of the United States.
The Proceedings of the Executive
•f th<? United States refpe<sling the weflern m
furreclion : Containing many facU and cir
cnmftances no where elfc to be found. 50
cents.
The Letter of Mr. Pickering to
our minifler in France. 37i-acents.
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States for the year
1795-
A few copies of the volume for 1794 may be
had to complete setts.
D'lvernois' account of the Revo
lution ia Geneva, jz 1-2 cents.
April 3. §
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second street,
fPricc 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present Wat with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May 15 f
To be fold cheap,
To close an adventure,
7 Bales Baftas
2 ditto CoflUs
Apply at the Store of
Mordecai Lewis.
May 16 eoiw
Venereal Complaints,
PUNCTUALLY attended to in every flaje or
that disease, Without the ufc of mercury or
restraint of diet, in any cafe recent and simple. on
application at No. 113, Chefnut-ftrect, eppofite
th: United States bank, or at No. 170, South Wa
ter-Ilreet, between Spruce ar.d Pim-ftaeets, where
he hat opened an office for the better accommoda
• tion of his patients.
But in Lues Venerea confirmed, rioSor Worga*
' pledges himfelf, that no i'yftem of cure (howevtr
specious) can be cffe(£lnal without mercury, and
that all the known rules of practice for thele two
centuries pall, and united experience affirms, that
any fubftitu'.e for it is but nugatory, and any mode
of praflice to the contrary mull be futile and de
ception.
Nevrrthelefs, he undertakes, however compli
cated the cafe, to effect a cure without inconve
nience or injury to the patient's constitution, and
in time not generally experienced or expected.
N B. Regular attendance at the office in Water
ftrect, from the hour of nine o'clock in the morn
ing until one, and from three o'clock in the even
ing until seven ; W. any o'hertimcat his dwelling
house, in Chefnutftreet.
May 16. dtf
A New Work.
PROPOSALS
For printing and publishing, by fubfeription, The
History of Pennsylvania,
IN North-America, from tfce original institution and
of that province, under the firft propri
etor and governor, William Penn, in 1681, 'till
after the year if-ia; with
AN INTRODUCTION.
Refpefting the Life of W. PENN,
Prior to bhe grant of that Province, aod the reli
gion Society of the people called Quakers; with the
FIRST RISE of the NEIGHBORING COLONIES,
more particularly of WEST-NEW-JERSEY* and the
Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDES on DELA
WARE.
To which is added,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE.
And of the general state, in which it flourifbed,
principally between the years 1760 and 1770; Tne
whole including a variety of things, ufeful and io
terefting to be known, refpefting that country in early
time, See. With an appendix.
Written principally between the years
By Rcbkrt Proud.
11 Pulchrum ejl benefacere reipubliccz* ctiam benedicere
hand abjurdum cji % vcl pace vd bello clarum fieri licet*'
sal. Catalin.
" Sed cum pier i que arbitrentur res bellicas majores ejfe
quam urbanas, minucndaed hac opinio."
Cic. Off.
(Entered according to law.)
" WILLIAM PENN, the great legifl%tor of the
Quakers, (in Pennfylmnia) had the fuccefa of a con
queror, in eftabhfhing and defending his colony, a
mong savage tribes, without ever drawing the (word ;
the goodness of the mod benevolent ralers, in trea
ting his fubje&s as his own children ; and the tender
ness of an universal father, who opened his arms to
all mankind without difttn£lion or feft or party. In
his Republic it was not his religious creed, but per
sonal merit, that entitled every member of society to
the prote&ioa and emolument of the State*"
EJfay on To/eratisn f by Arthur o'Leery.
CONDITIONS.
I. This work will be printed in two e&avo vol
umes, neatly bound and lettered, both in sheep and
calf, for the choice of the fubferibers; on paper simi
lar te that of the conditions, as publijhtd in the Subjcrip
tion papers.
j 11. The head of William Penn, handsomely en
graved, will be prefixed to the firft, and a map or
sketch of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the
second volume.
111 4 The price to fubferibers will be fourdollars
and an half in sheep, and five dollars in calf; —one
dollar to be paid at the time of fubferibing, two dol
lars on the delivery of the firft, volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery of the second.
IV. When one thousand copies are fubferibed
for, the work will be ®ut to press and finifhed with
all convenient expedition.
Subscriptions will be received by Zachariah Poul
fon, jun. Printer, No. 80, Chefuut-ftreet, and at the
Philadelphia Library in Fifth-ftreet ; by Isaac Col
lins. Printer, and Joseph James. Merchant, New-
York; by John P. Pleafents aad George W. Field,
Merchants. Baltimore; and by alher persons both
in town and country*
February 18* tu&f
To be fold or let,
And immediate given,
A genteel two (lory Brick House ;
SITUATE on the upper end of Broad-street, in
the city of Bmrlington, with four rooms and
an entry on each floor, good cellars under the
whole, a pump in the yard, a garden and court
yard, containing nearly half an acre under good
fence, with a liable adjoining the yard. The
whole property is in good order;
For terms apply to the fubfenber in Burlington,
who will gyve a credit for a considerable part of
the purchaie money if good security is given.
William Coxe, jun.
May 17. lawtf
Just received,
And for sale by Isaac Harvey, jun. No. 5, South
Water-street,
A parcel of prime Rice; also,
Trinidad and Cayenne Cotton
Coffee in Barrel# and Bags
Spaoifh Hides and Beef.
4th mo. 25, 179?- d4w
NOTICE.
THE Subscribers have strong reifons to be
lieve that the following evidences of (hares
in the Bank of the United States have been loft
on their way from England—and give this pub
lic notice, that application will be made at the
proper offices fer a renewal of the lame, viz.
No. 1077 issued irt lien of No. 9705 t0.9790
5 (hares
No. 2159 d°* '6i37> 16141 5 fhare»-
tc shares sent by the Polly, Capt. Clements,
to Norfolk
N«. 1687 issued in lieu of No. 6728 to 6732
S shares
No. 11371 do. 566 to 570 5 shares
No. 1711 do. 6266 to 6270 5 lharet
No. 2740 do. 766810 7672 5 (hares
20 (hares sent by the (hip Friends, Capt. Cal
ver, to Norfolk.
The whole iflued on the iff July, 1794, to
John Barker Church apd accompanied witb
powers of transfer to the Subscribers.
In the months of C<£lobtr and November'
last they were forwarded to us by Findlay Ban
natyne and C*. of London. Both of the (hips
it appears from the public prints have been
carried into the Weft-Indies by the French
and condemned, from which it is appreh.nded
the papers are destroyed. Steps hive been taken
to the improper transfer of the abave
(hares.
Gabriel Wood Co.
Merch 31.
Advertisement.
VITHEREAS I am informit! that twp bonds
W given by nic to btockiey Donelfon in
July in the year 1795, for about lix thousand
one hundred and ten pounds V;r s :nia curren
cy each, have been transferred by the laid Do
nelfon and others, and that it is intended to of
fer the said bonds for sale at audlinn j I think
it ray duty to inf. rm the public, what the
circumflances are under which the said bonds
were given, and leave those who.are in poffsflion
of them, or to \vho>n they may be offered, to
judge of the probability of their being paid.
In June 1795, Samuel Love, Jofiah Watson
and myfejf entered into contrail that I should
go to the S. Western Territory (now the state
of Tennessee) for the purpose of making a
purchase of lands ia that country ; the terms
on which the purchase was to be made, were
defined in our agreement, and fifteen days by
stipulation were giveß said Samuel Love and
Jofiah Watson, after I should inform them of
any purchases I Ihould make to determine whe
ther they would be partners in it.
I made a purchase of lands of the said Stock
ley .Donelfon but not on the terms, to which I
was limited by the said agreement with Samuel
Love, Jofiah Watson and myfelf—and although
the purchase exceeded in price, and was not
on the credit agreed on, I thought the bargain
a good one, and supposed Samuel Love and
Jofiah Watson would join me in it. I there
fore signed bonds for the payments, in the fame
manner as I should have done, if I had been cer
tain Mr. Love and Mr. Watson would have ra
tified and confirmed them ; because I did not
chufeas I meant to give them an option of tak
ing part of the said lands, to become solely re
sponsible for the payments, if they should de
termine to accept my offer of part. On my
return those gentlemen refufed to be concerned
at all in my purchase, and at I had received
the deeds jointly in our names, they when re
quested immsdiately conveyed to me, so that
I flood wholly possessed of the lands, and solely
responsible for payments.
At the time I made the pnrchafe of Mr. Do
nelfon, I informed him with whom and in what
manner I was concerned, and that Mr. J>ove
and Mr. Watson becoming responsible for the
payments, depended entirely on themselves.
The purchase I made Was to the amount of
upwards of 70,000 dollars, one thousand dol
lars were paid in cash, fix thousand dollars in
sixty day bills, and upwards of twenty thou
sand dollars in goodsljhe fall following the pur
chase. The two .bonds above alluded to were
given, ene payable in October ninety-fix, the
other in OiSober ninct.y-feven. Thole two last
bonds were given on the conditions expressed in
an agreement delivered at the fame time, and
dated the fame day with the said bonds, the
substance of which is, that the said bonds were
not to be paid, or any part thereof until it ap
peared to the fatisfailion ef the obligors, that
all incumbrances of Jevery nature and kind
whatfoevtr were removed from the lands and
every part thereof, which 1 had purchased of
Mr. Donelfon More than one half of the
lands, and ihofeef the best quality, the Indian
claim is not yet extingiiiihed to, and poffefiion
cannot of course be taken of them.
This incumbrance, perhaps, it was expeiled
when the contrail was made would be removed,
before the said bonds or either of them became
due.
There are other obstacles of less magnitude,
which must be removed before either of the
said bonds will be paid.
At the time the said bonds were given it was
agreed by Mr. Donelfon that he would not dis
pose of them, until it was clearly known that
there were no incumbrances on the lands. It
is not necessary, I should fay, how, he has been
induced to violate this part of our agreement.
I have complied with' the agreements on my
part to be done, agreeable to the letter and
meaning of my contrail, and shall continue to
comply with my contrail on the plainly-ex
pressed and unequivocal terms on which it was
made. Any person interested in the payment
of the said bonds may have cn application a
copy of the coanter agreement herein alluded
to. I have only to add, that I was very much
surprized in a short time after the said bonds
were given to be applied to, to know if they
would be paid ; at that time and whenever af
ter I have been spoken to on the fubjeil, I have
informed those applying of the nature of the
circuniftances on which the payment depended,
and I have never failed to declare in the moll
free and unreftrifled manner the true nature
of my enagements with Mr. Donelfon.
John Love.
Alexandria, April 28th, 1797.
Benjamin Iff Jacob John/on,
No. 147 Market Street, Philadelphia,
HAVE just received by the Conne&icut and other
Jate arrivals from Liverpool, a general ailort
ment of well cholen
Dry Goods,
For the ensuing Season, for sale on the lowest terms
for cash or the common credit.
A large colle&ion of Books at their usually mo
derate prices*
4th month, 25th, 1797, tw&f 4
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 25th
day of Oilober next, at ji o'clock, A. M.
About seven thousand acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifter's-town and Westminster,
commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road runs through a considerable partfof
these lands) the trail begins about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
of said Reifler's-town, ar.d extends to the dis
tance of about twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and lies on the main falls of Patapfica
river, from three to four milts thereon. Will
be fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each trail,
some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine grcfs.
ALSO,
A traft of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
lJladenfhurg, esteemed very good for Crass.
Richard Ponfonby, of Bladenlburgh, will (hew
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
also,
A trad of land ®f about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a half o! the President's house in the Fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpeil, fron. wliich may be fcea the
city of Washington, Bladenfourgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfon
by, of Bladenfburg, will alfs shew this land.
A liberal credit will be given for the grtateft
part of the purchase money, jfht terms will
be made known on the day of sale.
May 8 wjm
JOHN CRAIG
HAS just imported from Rotterdam) vi» St.
Tho mis, and for sale on rcafonable terms
by thepackage,
Platillas Koyal
Haerletn and German linens
Rouen*
Poll and Pro Pitri* Paper
Wafers
Qpills
Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles
Coffee Bags
He hat also for Sate,
Best Red Clover Seed
Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use
Tenerifte Wine of firft and second Quality
Coffee in Bags and HogQieads
Jamaica Spirits
Connecticut Turpentine Soap
Window Glass
Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Cotton
Hosiery
April 18. 4a« r
City of Washington. .
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwelling-house 20,000 dollars,
& cafli 30,000, are 50,00g
1 ditto 15,000 & cafo 25,000 40,0015
I ditto 15,000 & caih 15,000 30,000
1 ditto to,ooo & cafb 10,000 20,000
I ditto 5,000 & east 5,000 10,00 c
1 ditto 5,000 & c«lli 5,000 10,000
1 caih prize of 10,000
2 do. 5,000 each, are - 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
20 do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - • 10,000
200 do. 50 io,oeo
400 do. 25 - 10,000
1,000 do. 29 - 20,000
15,00® do. 10 - 159,000
16,739 Prizes.
33,261 Blanks.
50,000 Ticket!, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofivour thofc who may take a quan
tity of Tickets, tlie prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the la st drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but oni :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
monty or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received foi any number not less than 30 tick
ets.
This Littery will afford an elegant specimen ef
the private buddings to be ereiled in the City of
Waihingtoa—Two beautiful designs are already
leleiSed for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawings it ispropofed toereil
two centreand r our corner bHildi«gs,as soon aspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunato adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary eipenjfes of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Univerlity, to '
be erected within the city of Washington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
,5, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Weil & Co. Baltimore; of Fcter
Oilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
For Sate, 1
ON board the (hip Mollv, John Frost, mailer
from Liverpool, laying at Walnut-street wharf
6000 bushels of fine ftoved Salt,
And QUEEN'S WARE, well affoned,
By PHILIP NICKLIN Co.
WHO HAVF. IN STORE, ALSO FOR SALE,
; 100 Boxes WhiteHavanna Sugars
Imperial and) „ . _
liyfon (Teas
17 tabs Quicksilver
2chefts Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few cbefts Manchester Goods well assorted
in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, mufliiiets,
dimities, &c. 2 Trunks black sewing lilk,
180 Crates queens ware, well assorted,
lo Tons sheet lead,
Nails assorted, flat and (harp points,
London particular and ) Madeira Wine in
India market ) pipes and hhds.
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Teneriffe Wine,
10 pipes choice Port ditto,
31 calks yellow paint,
| 7 boxes 12 bundles writing slates,
I box ink-stands & note presses,
Sail canvas assorted No. 1 a 8.
May 4. dtf
Now Landing,
At Pratt's <wharf,
FROM on board the (hip Thomas Chilkley,
Capt. Ral'er, from Bourdeaux,
CLARET in calks
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
Red Skins in boxes
For Sale by
Rundle Ss° Leech.
Ma r 15 §
Important Public Document.
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale
At the Office of the Editor ofthe Gazetie of the
United States,
No- 119 Chefiiut-Srreet,
[price one p»olla r and fiftv cents]
A FEW COPIES OF THE
Receipts and Expenditures
OF THE UNITED STATES,
For the Year 1795, —
Being the Latest Period to which an account
caa be made up.
February ai.
To be rented,
A Range of STORES on Morton's wharf. Pof
feflion may be had immediately.
Enquire of
KEAkNY WHARTON,
109 South Water-street.
May I
NOTICE.
TF JOSEPH WESSELS, formerly of London,
A who came passenger in the (hip Faflor, to
Philadelphia, in the year 1794, will apply at
No. 197 Market-street, he will hear of some
thing to his advantage. Any information re
fpeiling him will be thankfully received.
May 12
For Sale,
A pair tf Good Black Carriage Horses,
Which may befeen by application at No. 124,
Spruce Street, between Second and Third.
May 1 a. §,
TO BE SOLD,
The timr of a Zlely NEGRO EOT,
Thirte. n years of age, and has about fourteen
years to frrve. Enqu.re at the office of this ga
zette.
April 17. j
SWAN N'S
Riding School, for ft Academy fcj* Infirmary j
Adoimng the Public Square, Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS hit sincere thanks tothofe gtetlemen by
whom he has been employed, during his residence in
this City, tad flatters hirr.felf that Ihe fucpefi of his
effoits, in the numerous, obflintK 3nd dangerous dis
eases in Horfti, in which he his been cnnljilted, to
getherwuh his moderate charges, will secure iheir
future favors ami recommendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public
at large that his spacious and commodious pre mifesf
eretted for the purpofej above described are open for
the reception of pupils of either lex, whowilhtobe
inftruited in the Art of Hiding, and the right method
of governing their horses, so as to ride them with
talc elegance, and fafety—their horses will be care,
fully and cxpeditioufly broke, for every purpofe,«nd
made obedient to he will of the riders ; the natural
powers whicn are (hut up in them, will be unfolded
by art, calling forth uniformity of motion, and giving
to that nobleanimal all thole beauties of aftion which
providence has so bountifully bellowed on them.
Also.at his hospital, every diforderto which the
horse is liable will be treated according to the rules ot
art, confirmed by Igng and repeated experience.
The utility of the above institution has never been
qoeftioned, that it has long been wanted in this city,
every gentleman's stud willmanifeft, and T. Swank
as the tiiftcftablifherot the vctcrenary art, folicitt and
relies upon the fuppoitof lha; public (which he it
ever anxious in fervi.-.g) to enable him to biingit to
perfection. The idea of a fubfeription for that pur.
pose has beeu hinted bv several gentleman, who with
to promote the institution the amount of each sub
scription to beretutned byfervices in any of the de
partmentslhe profefles, agreeable to the rate of charges
llated in his hand bill. Suchftjblcription is now o
pen, and the figr.aturetof many relpettable gentlemen
already obtained. He therefore injorms bis friends
and such Ladies and gentlemen to whom be has not
the honor of known, that he (hall in a few
days takethe liberty of waiting upon them and folici.
ting their support and protection.
N. B. Horses aieproperly prepared for thole ta.
diesaud Gentlcmenwho wilh to be inftrutled.
Nov. 5 : ah&f.
TO BE SOLD,
And possession given immediately,
A Lot of Land \
SITUATED in Mount-Holly, in thejeounty
of Burlington, in New-Jersey, latelv occti
pied by Francis Bhllus, Esquire, upon which ara
an excellent brick house, two stories high, with
four convenient rooms on each floor, alfq a good
stable, carriage house and other buildings. The
situation is valuable for business of any kind, and
at least equal to any other in the town.
The terms of payment will be madeeafyto
the purchaser. Apply to William Rpfiell, Esq.
uire, John Perry, or Richard Coxe, merchants,
in Moimt-Holly, or to the Suhfcriber, in the city
of Burlington.
JOSEPH M-ILVAINE.
Burlington, 47th April May s—s3w5 —$ 3 w
Laws of the IT. S.
SIVIFT's EDITION.
JuJi Pttbli/hedy
Price 6 dollars, 3 vol. umo.
Sold by W. Young, Mills and Son, H. and
P. Rice, M. Carey, K. Campbell and Co.
Laws of the United States,
From the commencement of the Federal Govern
ment to the end oj the lafl Seffton of Con-
R refs, luhich terminated Mircb 3, j79 7 .
HPHIS edition, published under an order of
A Congress of the United States,- has many,
peculiar advintages. In the former one, each
volume had a separate index, which rendered
the reference in all-cases, difficult arid troublc
fome, and in many alrnoft impoflible. The in
dexeswere, moreover, very injudiciously com
piled. On the contrary, in the present edition,
there is one copious, luminous index, com
plied by Zephaniah Swift, Esq. referring to
all the volumes, and comprifmg in itfelf a com
plete digell of all the laws of the United States.
Ma y 3■ w&s 7 t
For Sale,
TWO LOTS OF GROUND in Kenfine-
J- ton, on the foutb fide of Hanover-street
containing thirty-fix feet in breadth and one'
hundred and sixty-seven and a half feet in
depth to a twenty feet alley For further in
formation enquire at No. 37, Arch-flreet
March 18. t oj tf
An excellent Stand for Business,
With Stock fuitablc thereto.
THE fubferibers, aflignees of Joseph Meif
fon, offer for sale all the ftoek of goods on
h'nd, lately belonging to said MeiiTon, confut
ing of a great variety of liquors, groceries, &c.
Any perron wishing to engage iu business as a
grocer, w ill hive an opportunity of purchasing
the whole of the retail fibre on reasonable terms",
and can immediately get pofieflion of it, at the
corner of Strawberry alley and Chefmit-ftreet,
which has been an excellent stand
for that line of business. If not fold in tea
days, the whole of that, with a large quantity
of wines, St. Croix and New-England rum,
&c. &c. will be put up to public au<sUos.
For terms apply to
David Walker,
Wm. Buckley, or
Samuel Keith.
May 10 j
TO BE RENTED,
And may be entered upon at any time,
THAT forcible and wellimproved water works
on Brandywine, three miles from the town
of Wilmington, in the state of Delaware ;
consisting of
A large, convenient Slitting Mill,
In complete order, having several pair of rolls
and cutters of every lize.
A large, Stone Merchant Mill,
Having fhrta pair burr flones, boulting works,
corn kiln and every other neceflary apparatus. '
A Saw Mill,
In the best order, and a pair of timber v+eels.
A Smith's Shop and Tools..
To'accommodate these works there is a laree
commodious stone dwelling house, kitchen and
wash house and a number of dwelling honfet
for workmen, with gardens adjoining ; two large
stone fUbles, two stone coal houses, and a coop
er s shop, with meadow aadpafture grounds
If the tenant chufes he may have the oppor
tunity to purchase ao excellent te.m of fivehor
fes, waggo*, coal carriages and bed, with a
stock of coal m the coat houses fuffieient to mi
nufaclure three hundred tons of iron.—Adolv t.
RUMFORD & ABIJAH DAWES
No. 7, Scuth VVattr-ftrcct. '