cf tt)t and Philadelp
Number 1647.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRY GOODS.
f Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. 56,
/ outll F'ont-flreet,
y J Afternoon—Footman Sc Co. No. 6j
C South Front-street.
r Forenoon—John Connelly, Otd Citv
Tuefday< Auflion, No. 73 fouf'h Frcmt-ftreet.
Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
V High-street.
IVe/bicfday f A, r ter " oo " l ~ lE ' e ' er Senfon, No. 74
X south Third-ftrcet.
, Thursday J Forenoon—Edward Fox.
I Afternoon—John Connelly.
Friday I Forenoon—William Shannon.
5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
Marshals Sales,
United States, 1
Pennsylvania Diftrift. J
BY virtue of a Writ of venditioni exponas, issued
out of tha Circuit Court Jof the United States,
in and fer the Pennsylvania DiltriA oftbe Middle
Circuit, and to me diretfed will he fold it public
sale at the Marshals Office in Race Street No. 117.
on Saturday the soth day of December inft. at 12
o'clock at noon, two elegant engraved Copper plates
cfShakefpeare, one plate of Harmony, Bartolezzi, I
one plale of prudence, do. onu plate of meekness, do '
one plate of beauty, do. and one plate of Harveft
fionie do—Seized and taken in execution as the ;
property of Twftram Bampfylde Freeman, and !
* John N:cholfon, Merchants, trading tinier the firm
of Freeman and Company, )
And to be fold by
William Nicbols i Marshal.
MarOutla olEce > -- -
December 18th 1797.3 dtf
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before diftoofed of at private sale)
Monday the nrft day of January next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Cof
fee House, in Philadelphia, TWcoty-Six Thousand
Seveß Hundred and Eighty acres of LAND, in the
State of New-York, berween the northern bounds
of Pennsylvania and the Susquehanna, now, or late
in the townships of Hamdeuand Wwren.and ooun
ty of Montgomery. One foarth of the purcHife
money to be paid at the time of sale ; for ihe reGdue
credit of one, two and three months, will be given,
on interest and good feturity.
Dec- 4. gtawtS.
To be &old at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private fait)
Off Monday the ftrft day of January next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine Hun
dred and Thirty-Nine acres of'LAND in Green
county, Commonwealth of Pennfylvania,on tha Wa
ters of Fifti and Wheeling Creek, and teu Mile Run.
Thefc lands are fertile, well timbered and abound in
coal; they were (fold ten years ago for ss. per acre,
patented eaily in 1787, except 3,700, which were pa
tented in 1792 ; the greatest part of them were sur
veyed in 1783.
This traft is between the Ohio and Monongahela,
very convenient to water carriage—about ig miles from
the town of Wafliington, and from 14 to 16 from the
irill 'fl-* Mtd Wh»«lmg. OlfC foul th
of the pure ha fe money is to be paid at the time of
sale ; for the iefidus a credit of one, two, and diree
months will be given, on interest and good security.
Dec. 1. l3tawtj
7" WANTED"
*'A LARCI PARCEL OS v
Scantling and other Lumber,
Suitable for House Building ;
Alfoa quantity of Stone &Bricks,
I am ready to enter into ccntrafU for the a
bove articles —a'reafonablt time may be allowed
for preparing thtm ; and cash shall bepaid either
in advance, or upon their delivery, asfmay he a- -
greed on. —Apply to the Subscriber, House-Car
penter, Lombird-ftreet, No 2.
John Crean.
December tq. d6t-
STOLEN
Out of the fubferiber's office a large blue
eloth cloak, half worn. The infidc of the
Collar is faced with scarlet velvet and partly
with scarlet cloth, and it has a silver hook
add chain as a fattening. A suitable reward I
will be paid for restoring it.
WILLIAM MEREDITH
No. in South 3d Street.
Dec, t6. diw
BY virtue of an order of the Organ's Court,
will be exposed to Sale, on thf 26th current,
at 9 o'clock, a.m. at the prcmifes, a small frame
House and Lot, situated on the corner of Spruce
and Eighth streets, fubjedl to an annual ground
rent of fifteen pourids, late the property of Ao- )
thony Lebeclc, deceased.
MARGARET LEBECK, Adminijhatrix.
December 1(5. f
TO LET,
A Front Room, suitable for an
Office or Counting house, with a large Cellar.
Any person who may rent the above, may (if re
quired) be accommodated with Board and Lodg
ing in the fame house. Enquire at 110. iBo, South
Front, near Pine street.
December 13. 3 BW 3 W
NOW LANDING, \
Prom on board the (hip Farmer, lying at Harper's *
Wharf, S
Claret irr hhds. r
Ditto in cases
Sauterne Wins in .do.
For Sale, apply to
'John Whitefide & Co.
No. 138, S arket-ftreet.
Also, en hand,
Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes
Fine old Aritigua Rum
A tew cales of Claret, of a superior quality,
november ig. §
To be Sold,
The time of a Negro Boy,
About fifteen years of age, has seven years yet
to fcrve ;heis an excellent house serv ant, active f
and healthy. Enquire of the Printer. J
December i. d2w
To Gentlemen who intend pending u
the Winter in the City. m
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or'without Board—at No. 114, corner
cf Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreefcbll*—and vicinity has V:e;>free from the late «,
contagion. ©<3.3".—dtf
PHILADELPH IA: TUESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 19, i 797
For Savannah, in Georgia,
CJv The Ship ARAB,
Thomas DonoUue, Ma Iter,
f y to fail—Can accommodate a few
rj For Surinam and Curracoa,
t- George Waihington,
D ' JONH DIVIREUX
For Freight, or PifTage, apply to
4 STEPHEN KINGSTON,
No. 46 Walnut, or 33 Dock-iheet,
Who has a few Boxes of
Bloom and Muscatel Raisins, and
Gin in Pipes.
Decrreber 18. *2t
For Savannah,
(To fail on or before Sunday, the 24th inft. unlets
prevented by the ice)
j The faft failing Ship
', Swift Packet,
e JJtPatrick Gribben, Majler.
L ' -\M! T TAS excellent accommoda
• 1~1 tions for paffingers. |
For Freight or palfage, apply to
'j N. Iff J. Frazier,
a j no. 95, south Front flreet.
- . Who have for Salt, received by the said Jhip,
- j New RICE, in vVhole and half tierces.
j December 16 diw
1 On THURSDAY next, the 10th inft.
At the Tontine Coffee-Houft in Neiu-Torft,
Will be Sold without reserve, the
Ship SWIFT,
Burtlicn two hundred and nine
a remarkable faft sailer,
staunch built, and well found.
Inventory to be fecn on board, at the Old Slip,
or at no. 178, Pearl-street, New-York.
December 16 *d.U
For Ainrterdam,
f a T r me r,
John M'Co-LtoM, Mailer ;
WILL fail in a few days, the
past of her eargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, orpaf
fage, apply to the matter on board, at Walnut*
street wharf, or ts
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is Landing, out of the said Ship, from Bour
deaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fentiniac,
Sauterne, f Wises in cafe*
Lunille, )
, Prunes in boxes
november»4.
For Londonderry,
r THE BRIOAMT.IKE ,
S UK£K
William Whittkn, Matter.
«-»' ! SSSK ' "a ttronggood velfel, about two
hundred tons, to fail with all convenient speed, a .
great part of her cargo engaged—now lyißg at
Willing and Francis's wharf. For freight or pas
sage, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
Landenlerger*t viharf.
Who wants to Charter.
A V*ssel of about three hundred tons.
flsV ! 8. $
For Sale or Charter,
GOOD MOPE,
Will carry about laoo barrels,and
'-'SslSsJj' s rc4d y to ta^e ' n * 'argo. For terms
M *ni T JSC apply to
Pragtrs & Co.
No. 15 k, South Second-ttreet.
Who have for fale—jrime St. Croix Sugar and
Rum, Madeira, Lisbon, and Tcneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf.
For Liverpool,
>■ The upper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
/ Captain Silas Sv/ajn.
: y2r a Large proportion of her t
cargo being ready to go on
board, is expe&cd to fail on or about Sunday, the j
3d of December.
For Freight or Passage, apply to theCaptaia om t
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to
PHILIP NIC KLIN Co. ;
november 21. §
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain ChishoLm,
A new vessel, with excellent
accommodations for passengers
Sails on the loth of December. Ft>r Foeight or
Passage, apply to ROSS to" SIMSON.
Who lave to dfptfe of,
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. §
Rundle & Leech,
Have jufl. received, and have for Sale, at no. 9,
Walnut street, __
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT (
Do. Weft house CO LS «
Quaens' WARE in cases, aflorted
Bourdcaux BRANDY of an excellent quality «
Do. CLARET in cases, do.
afTni--. THFY HAVE ALSO
For SALE or CHARTER, 7
TUE 3U,r
PEGGY,
Burthen 115 ton 3, in excellent condition, and ri
may be sent to sea with little expence or delay.
LIKEWISE,
THE BRIG (t
WILLIAM,
Burthen xoi tons, b ,
november 16. £
By John Fenno, N° iip Cbefnut Street.
Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR SAT, E,
At their Stokes on Walnut ftrett Wharf,
w HavannahSagar-, v-hiteandbrown
*5 hhds Jamaica... _. lift.-'<!;»,
30. a pieces 0? broad Nankectis t
Imperial Tea, in quarter; and eighths'of cheils
Quicksilver in tubs
Madeira Wjne in pipes ami hogffieadi
Teneriffe Wine in pipe*
Old led Port Wine inhogflieads
Sail Canvass, assorted, No. I to 8
8 cases of Mrmcheftcr Goods, conMing or Dimities
Muflittets, Ginghams,Thickfctt*. Corduroys, &c.'
200 crates Queens' Ware, alforted
Nails, assorted
1 Black quart Bottles
Yellow Ocre in cailcs
A quantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, &c.
100 quarter caiks Gun Powder
They have also for SALE ,r CHARTER,
TheJhlp MOLLY, 'burthen tone, a
good vessel, and completely fitted.
The brig AMAZON, burthen 1,300 bar-'
rels, may be ready for sea in a few days.
Thr whole of the above vessels to be fftn at
Walnut flreet Wharf. $ „ OVr Ic ,
" FOR SALE,
BY TBI subscribers, No. 21, Penn-ttreet,
1 he, Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, ftom Bengal,
Conjijhng of
' Baftas, of various qualities & prices
Coffaes Punjum Cloth*
Sarahs GuZz y do.
Humhums Charconn* Dorea
, Slue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys Check*
Maharagonges P»t»& Hhkft.
Ginghams Mulrr.ul 40.
i Guzzcnas Bandannoss
Gurrahs Siflufoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Rom&k
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Komals Perliansof various colours
Mock Pulicits
200 tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings fsf Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Gangas arc now open and eipofed to file ct
that commodious (lore thi north weft corner of
Market and Fourth ftrcet. itv. to.
LANDING,
From on board the Slip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, frem London,
60 tons of the best clean Ruflia
HEMP
60 rafks of bottled BROWN STOUT.
For Sale by the fcbfcribers, No. 21, Penn-ftreet.
Willings SfJ 5 Francis.
OSi.ji. d
J aft arrived,
From Port-au-Prince, a»d, for S«le by the f«&fcii
bcrs, Wo- rehn-ftrwt,
6*» hoglheads,")
J2J barrels >Prime Coffee
646 bags J
Wiliings sff Frantis.
Q<ft. 28. - . »
FOX SALE—by the Subsciubehs,
An elegant aflortment of Madrafs
HAN&KERCHIEFS, by the hair.
WILLINGS FRANCIS,
nov. ax. § Pcon-ftrcct.
~" r "~ FOR" SALE;
BV THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, firft quality, in
pipes
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pipes
1 Lifhitn WINE, in pipes
CLOVESand 7 r . , n • . • ,
IfUTMKGS ( late ft importation, in Itoxcs
Spanilh Wool, in Bales, suitable for Hatters.
Witlings & Francis,
Penn-ftreet, No. 21.
Nov. r. w&stf
Landing this day,
From on board the schooner Two friends, Dan
iel Crawley, Master,
ft *" d j Jamaica ROM,
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer £3* Son.
uovemher 9. §
James is? Richard Smith,
TAKE the liberty of informing their friends
and the public, that they have removed their
llore tb No. 54, South Front flreet, next door to Ed
ward Fox's Auction Room, where they have at
this time for sale, a large and general afforunent of
European & Eafl India Goods,
Many of whieh are just imported in the Clothier,
William Penn, &c. &c. j
Oft. ty.
I NOW LANDING,
At South-flreet Wharf,
The Chrgo of the Ship Concord, 1
Captain Thompson, from Batavia.
About 30c tons firft quali-y Java Coffee (the
whole having been fele&ed)
80 tons Java Sugar, in canisters and bags 1
Io legurcs of old Arrack i '
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves 1
rOR t.ns Br £
PETER BLIGHT. \
Who also offers For Sale, j
Just landed from (hip Amity, from Jamaica. t
203 hhds. Jamaica Sugar, and r
170 do. do. Rum. t
novemlier 2.1. d6w v
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, thezoth v
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at c
Scvm Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets iu the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten c
Dollars, wkere check boots are kept lor register- k
ing and examining inthefe, the City of Wafiiing- '
ton, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and infornia- 8
tion where tickets may be had in most of the Lotte- a
ries authorifsd by law in any of the States of the _
Union. j
N. B. The hufinefs of a Broker, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcounthg Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by Wm. BLACKBURN. h
nov ember JJ. § I
NOTICE
To holders of James greenleaf's
and ED!/ARD FOX's Engagements
1 TN confequcnte-of inauy having been prevent-
Aid, from late unavoidable cireuitiHancrs frovn
obtaining tlitir Certificates, agreeablt to former
notice. Tke Truflees now inform them, they
are ready to ifiue the fame to tbofe who may ap
ply witnin sixty days, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
and tbcfe who do not, will be confidercd as re
linquifting thpir claim on the Aggregate fund
provided for their payment.
'' HENRY PRATT,
TSCMAS W. FRANCIS,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
Jacob Baker.
December 15. dftct
NOTICE.
1 THE Creditors of the Estate of Walter
Stewart deceased, are requested to meet on
Monday next at 6 o'clock in the evening
t at the City Tavern—The business upon I
which they are to deliberate being of great
importance they are requested not to fail to
give their attendance.
Dec. 15. 3t
WANTED,
A PERSON that can produce unexceptionable
recommendations, to perform a journey this
winter as far as the Ohio—Such an one will meet
with encouraging terms, by applying at thit office.
N. B iiome one acquainted with Hariifon
county, Virginia, and its n« ; el>h<« J " w "'. —> u h "
i"" 1 reu. Dec. IJ.—Jl2t
"wantsXplace, "
As coachmaa, a black Man, who can produce
the best recommendations. Enquire of the prin
tcr* Dec. 16—d^t
FOK S I K
By JOHN MILLER,'jun. Co.
No. 8, Chulnut-ftreet,
One hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
Amongst which are,
Gurrahs Mamoodies
Baftas Sannas
Gvizz- naha Tanda Coffaes
Guzzies Emertics
Blue Cloths ■ Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Handkerchiefs
Amongst them are a great proportion of thi?
manufactures of Patna.
December 1. 5
All Persons
Having any demands against the Estate of the
late Captain George Irwiu, are requested to
bring in their accounts pioperly attested, on or
before the firft day of January next rnfuing
and those who are indebted to said estate are so
licited to make immediate payment to
SARAH IRWIN, Administratrix.
Nov. 29 1797. |(
Geenteel Boarding & Lodging. ,
A Family may be accommodated with a Draw
ing Room, two Bedchambers, and suitable
accommodation for servants—at no. SJ, north
Fourth street. Dec. s—*tts5 —*tts
Samuel Pleafants Sons,
No. 74, South Second-fireet,
HAVE received a l'upply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on
reafonabl* terms. Qit 27. —4W
1
Musical Inftrumenl Manufactory,
167, Arch-street.
TO THE LOTERS OF HARMONY.
HARPER,
JNFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
now ready for sale, a few of his new invented,
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedals,patent ' well, fonopahant and French harp
stop, which for fenfiuility of touch, briliiancy of
tone, fimplicily and durability of conftruiSion, the
i'eperiority of flatters himfclf, a single tri ;
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As they 1
are mahufaflured under his immediate infpeilion, '
of the very best seasoned materials, he can fell 011 '
reasonable terms for Cash. luftrum«mts repaired, j
tuned, &c.
N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex
change for new.
nrwmUr 18. 2aw2mo.
Wants a place,
AS a Wet Nurse, a young woman, who can
be wel| recommended. Inquire in Eleventh
street, near Uace-flreet. noi>.27.
*eodt w.
This Day Publillied,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price 3-Btbs of a Dollar,
Observations on certain• Documents
Containod iw No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which th'e ciiAßtiE or specuLATioN agairift k
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasury, is EULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN tr tIIMSKLT.
This publication presents a concise statement
of the base means praiftifed by the Jacobhisof the 1
United States to asperse the chara{lers of those
pirfons who are cohfidered as hostile to their difor- e
garuzing schemes. It also contains the cor- ti
refpondence between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs. b
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on the sub- t]
jeit of the documents aforefaid, and a series of let- n
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr, Ha- 0
milton, proving beyond the possibility of a doubt,
that the connection between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a oaring eonfpiracy on the part "
of the latter and his associates to extort money.
£5" A discount of one third from the retail price f<
will be made in favor of wholesale purchasers, for g
cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr Yovns.
Augufl 25. e'
FOR SALE, ~~
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, about 40a weight, in /
good condition, and would answer the purpose of v
a country printer as well as Brew.
Enquire of the Pnuter. Nov. 30. Q
Ad laying Duties on Stamped Vellum »
Parchment and Paper.
A FEW copies of the above ait may be hid aj
he Office of tho Gazette of the United States, No
lIJ, Chcfnut-llreft, July 19;
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
's AN adj urnri meeting of the Stockholders of
j~ r: the Delaware .:nd Schuylkill Canal, it to b«
t- ... a ' their Office oa Tuefslav evenintr (loth of
n this mi It ant December) at 6 o'clock, r. m. prccifely,
, r a ° d punSual attendance is requested, on matters
v } • utmoil iraportance, relating to certain pro
/ petitions for the more expeditioufly Completing the
wor.c, and obtaining the aid of the Legiflattfte
' :i!l '' the Corporation of the City, for introducing
a copious supply of water into the fame.
" WM. MOORE SMITH, Sec'ry.
December 14. dtlgth
Inlurance (Company
THE .STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
I 1 H E Stockholders are h«reby notified, that an
X Election for thirteen Directors to serve for
one year, will be held at this company's Office, on
- Monday, the eighth day of January next, at 11
o'clock.
SAM. W. FISHER, Sec'ry.
December 14. dtßtnj
r A titty Dollar Bank Nore,
j Of the Bank of the United States, was loft oa Sa
j turday last, between the Be»k of the United States
and the Horfj market—lf an honest person has
J it, and will leave it w th the Printer hereof;
they (hall be hinifoinely rewarded.
December IT eodjt
Bank of North America.
. THE Stockholders are herihy notified, that au
; wleclion for twelve Direitors, for the ensuing.year,
will be held at the Bank on Monday, the Sth of
. January next, at ten o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Cajticr.
bur dtßth[
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
1 HE Stockholders are hcreliy notified, that the
election for Prefldent and Managers, for the ensu
ing year, will be held at the company's office, on
the fit ft Monday in January next, at ico'clock.A.M.
WM. MOORE SMITH, Sec'ry.
"• mw&ftlflr-_J
Schuylkill and Sufquehanna Canal."
I n' ' E Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
election for Profidem and Managers for the enfu
:^TU Wil ! he held " the company's office, on
tlx* firft Monday in January next, at 10 o'cluck
A ■ M ' Dec. tj. *
JUST RECEIVED, *
New-York)
and now opening, by
George Dobson,
No. 15, f»uth Third flreet,
An cxtenfivc and general alTortment of
HABERDASHERY, viz.
Best London mixt Pins Galloons and Ferrets
Common do. do. Worded Bindings, affor-
Makenzie sfuper,patent ted colours
whit* chapel Needle, Imperial, diaper, and
Nuns Thread no. 6to Thread Tapes
40, regularly assorted White Edgings
Lisle do.no. 130 to JOO, Blaek:.nd coloured Chi.
regularly assorted nefe Ribbamis
Cokrored do. Sattin and figured do.
Black sewing Silks Black Velvet! 1-4 to lid
Coloured do. and Twist Velvet & pelon Sattins
Silk and cotton Wires French Cambrick
Do. d*. Ribbands Scotch do.
Shirt Moulds and Wire. Plain gilt and plated'
Black brulh Feathers Buttons
And a compleat assortment of Geods, suitable
to the prelent and approaching season, at reduced
P r ' ce6 Dec. 6.
THE PARTNERSHIP OF ~ "
Richard James Potter,
IS this day dissolved, by mutual confint. All
pe: ions indebted to the said firm, are requested
to pay the fame to either of the fubferibers; and
all perrons having anv demands against thera, are
requested to fend their accounts foi settlement.
Richard Potter,
James Potter.
December 9. r
ihe Subscriber intends to make
application for the renewal of a Certificate of a Share
in the Bank of the United States, standing in the name
oM.B. N0.5004, dated July n, 1797, tbe fame
Having been loft. JOHN GRAHAM.
Kichmond, Dec. i.
koss simson,
HAVE FOR SALE, *
A few bales Baftas, Goflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTI ON
Bengal SUGAR, in tags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, i RUM.
and Bengal j
300 casks RICE, rnd
A parcel of fliip building RED CEDAR.
Oft- * 7- > j
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whole and half tierces
flour dectux Brandy
Tenerijfe if me
Mclajjis
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ra-vens Duck and one bog/head of paint
krujhes.
N. Cs* J. Frazer.
No. 95, Sonth Front Street.
Nav - 7' dim
DANCING SCHOOLr
William m'dougall pref<snt« hi«
molt refpe.nful compliments to his form
er employers an-d the citizens in general, and re
turns his most grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful encouragemeut he has experienced for
these twenty-five years pad, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his school is now
open, at his
Elegant Ball Room,
in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
Walr.ut-ftreets. To begin at 10 in 'he morning
for young ladies, and i in the evening for yoan;j
gentlemen.
His firft PraiUcing Ball will be to-morrow
evening, Saturday, -he 9th inft.
Dec. 8. 2awtf.
FOR SALE, "
A Teamx»f five excellentHorfes,
with a Waggon and Gears. The Horses are all
young, strong, true to the draught, and capable
of hauling as great a weight as most in the coun
try. The Waggon and"Gears are strong, and
in good order. Apply to ROBERT GREEN,
Weft Town, Chelter county, or»,:o
Tbunas Fijher,
No. 142, S. Second Street, Philadelphia
II mo,. 2, «od3vr.
[VoLVMn XII.Mrs. G RATTAN,
ESPFC T FULLY informs &en
»> tlemer of the'city- that her firo CONCFRT
of Vecal Muf.c will be on Thursday iiext, the alii
of Deretaber, inft. at RicrtahdetV
ACT 1.
Quai t< tte, t'leyol
vnpels ever brjghc, Handel
Giec— tocrfra. Carr, Darky, juh. and Mill,
The Mariners
Mr Carr
Orattari and Mr. Carr, Paffeillo 1
Son?—Mr PiHey, jiin, \
Scotch Gice—Mrs. Grattan, McflVb,Carr, Darley,
> Hill. |
ACT. it.
Couctrto Piano Forte, (by a yoivig lady) Viotti
Song-—Mrs. Grattan, Sacqhini
Glee—MefTrs Carr, Darley and HiU, Jackl'on
Du Gratian and Mr. Carr, Time
x [has not thiii'id
Cs°ng—Mr. Darl«y, jun. >
Qu^rtelle—Mre. Grattan» Meflrs. Carr. Darley
add Hill.
Smx dollars each fa u fcriber for one ticket of ad
mit unce during the season.
No fupfcribtrs ticket transferable, but any
fcriber on paying his fubferiptioo,will have a
to riemand tickets for the unmarried pnrt ot hiii fa
mily, tichet will admit them every night
the season, hut are not transferable.
The Conce t to b.-tjin at half part fix and the jnu
lir to attend for the Ball at eight, the expcnce of j
vhich Mrs. Grattai< engages to discharge
Non-iubfdribers ticket—i dollars.
received and-ticket* delivered by
Mrs. Grattan**clerk, at No 192, High-flreet,
Non-fubfci ihrrs tickets to be had the day of the
Concert at the Bar at Mr. Richardet's.
. P C \ dtuft
B A L L.
MP 'F&AT* CIS refpedlfuJ lyinforms his scholars
and the vublic in general, that his firll Ball
will be 011 '| ucfilay, the 19th of December, at the
New Affcnibly Room in forth Fourth street, be
tween Chel'nut and Walnut flrcet. *
Ladies rickejs to be had by applying to the
fchnlars of Mr. Francis, or at his house, no. 70,
Bor.th fi^hthftrca.
Gentlemen s Irckets, at one dollar eqyfr. be
lud ac 'the Nt*w Afleinbly R6om, 6r of Mi. Far "
Itfs house. December 16—^t
Creditors of BlairM'Clenachan,
urld of Bla ; r M'Cxnachan and Patrick Moqre,
arc n q;iefle«4 to meiet at the Coffee honfc, at'fix
o*cloc^ v i» the-evoning •£ th# 19th inft. A rull
acd atfenoancc is required, as bufuiefs
of will be brought to lights
December r6. *3t
MarJJjal's Saks.
United States, 1
Peunfylvanja jDiftrid, 3
BY virtue ps writs ot venditioni exponas, issued
out of the diftrifl court of the United States, and
ta cic dire£led, will be fold at public Sale at the mer
chant'sConee-Hou r e, in Second street, on Wednesday
the 27th day of December iatt.' at 6 o'clock in the
evcni. g. all that piece or parcel of meadow ground
situate, lying and being in the townftiipof Paflyunck,
and Philadelphia, on the road leading to
Stafe Island Ferry, contqiliing about fifty-four acres
and three oe'ches- w iereon are a iwo story
brick Mefluage, ont houses and a barn ; %Iso one o
thcr traft or pi«c« oi meadow ground, situate in the
townU ip and coun v, and nearly on the opposite
(jdc of the said roadioch** said ferry.corrtainingfixtecn a
ciei.Sc ihreeqaartcts; alfua meffuageor tenementand lot
or piece of ground fituaie o?i the north fide of High
ftrcrt. beaten sth and 6th streets, in che city of Phi
-1 adelptia, contciniugin fioiitonHigh street, thirty
three feet, snd in fength or depth two hundred feet,
bounced east bv property of Hannah Pemberton, j
riorth by South alley, weft by property «f William
Bell, and fnuth bv High street aforefaid.
S izei and tsken in execution as the property of
Henry Seckel, and to be soW by-
William Nichols % Marjhal.
„ Marfhal*s Offee, ")
December 15, 1" 97- J
December 15 4tf
James C. & Samuel VV. Fisher,
At rilS R STORK,
Np. 13, corner of Arch and Front flreets, \
UJVZ FOR SALE,
Cotton and worlted Hcfiery in trunk.*, affbrted
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannel*
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Puljcat fiik ditto
Ditto Pondicherry .and Madrafs
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffrties
4000 piccss Nankeens, and
Fev> chests beft-Hyion Tea
Alfo —1500 beit London Window Glass, j
from 8 by 6, to fgl by 14 —and 15 hhds. Qlafs
Ware, afTorted, which they will dispose of cheaper
than any in the city.
noyrmber *8- 1
Imported (via New York) on the '
<hip Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for 1
sale by the fubferiber, at No. 61, Chcfnut street, '
between Scoi-nd and Third Streets, the follow- j
inp articles . ,
Maha-agonges Dorens
Chintz ami Calicoes Dacca wdrked muslins
Gillis Roma'.* Bandannoes '
Ni'las & Penfiafo.s Chafla Romals i
Blue cloth Hair ribbon i
MullMullhankerchicfs Palemporej (
P itna do. Banares Opium
Lcltor Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox»
rovember 17 ' tuths4W
New-JTheatrc, 1
December 11, 1797-
r ~pHE Mavacfrs paiticularly rcqueft the con
i_ currence of thr public in the abolition of a
custom, which has hitherto obtained, of giving m
vay or disposing of RETURN CHECKS at the
Theatre.
They are aivare that gentlemen are nnconfcious
of any wlong i'®re to tje interest of the inilitu
tionby this practice, from a general, though rnif
ta>en idea that Checks are the representatives i»f a
right to so many, feat" in the Theatre, during*an
Evening's Entertainment, and transferable at will;
when in fact, they were never intended as more
than tektni by which the Poor-keepe »are enabled .
to ascertain with the least trouble to the W<«,that
t/jij tbcmfelvcs have been befor? in the Theatre, or
paid'for their admiflion.
Independent of the injury the Managers fuflain, t
such a pi'aittce enconragts a croud of idle boys and '
other disorderly parsons to surround the. doors of j
the Theatre, to the coiruption of their morals and f j
the great annoyance of the Audience. |
It has alio been the source of two evils of no in- j 1
cotiftdorable magnitude; one is, that f)mctime» | t
very improper company is by these 1!■ CiilV- admit- j
ted ; and the otber, that ev/ni , to Checks pafling ! ,
into dishonest htmds, they h?vc be n frequenaly > ,
counterleit :d to a large amount for the purpofi-sof
Sale. . i J
This statement will, it i»r(f;'e<?fully hoped, in- J
duce the Public to discourage fjih a traffic : and J t
the exertions of the Managers will, if thus afli ed, . x
eaGly prove adequate to irs entire abolition j r
' WIGNELL Of REINAGLE. | }
T*"cembcfl3 { c
_ Alphabetical Lilt of Duties, [ ■
Payable by law dn all Goods, \Vares, ind \ er- £
ch»ndize, imported into the Uniied States—t tefk
rdi'ion, to be fold by JOHN no. 41, £
Ch.fnut-ftrcet. Dec. 16—d
Xlje dSasetie,
PHILADELPHIA,
tuesdaj' Evening, December 19.
For the Gazette of the United States.
MR. FEN NO,
" I have not the fmallell daubt but Con
gress will duly appreciate the advice of" the
learned gentleman who signs himfcrlf " an
Enemy to Nonsense," and though I do not
think ' right and juftiee'entirely wrong,both
fecm to have drawn very hasty conclusions.
Not over tjnacious of my own fpiuioiis, 1
entertain and treat with due rtfpeft the fen
timenti of those who differ with me.
The nonfenfual gentleman like many other
reafonor3 would no doubt lay a ivagtr also to
convince Congress and the public " that he
alone can think or argue" ! Now as to his
"arithmetical logic," though ihe cargo tak
en may go to market it it to an island or
port of an enemy of the other, and though
that port or all the ports of ths»t enemy may
have a superabundance of necefiariee, if the
neighbouring island be Jlarving it cannot ex
pe3 or obtain relief frcm thence ; it is not
therefore " in competition with our wther
produce, and so lowers the market."
" One other delullen," that the loss to the <
country is exaftly the fame in all cases of
misfortune to individual property " when
nothing is returned for it," but when one
veflel in four bound- to the fame port is tak
en and carried to people at enmity therewith,
the other three upon general calculation ob
tain and bring bzck the value of the four—
when a veflel founders it is a national loss, if
uninsured it is both individual and national.
I do not " fear our merchants and under-"
writers being convinced" by " an enemy to
nonsense," that they should do .wrong, or
that they cAn pglnfrun. j "try m
ny measure : —he recommends. He may
not be thought ft much an enemy tp nonsense
as he imagines.
As to " she whole statement" of right
and jufti'ce," it is not so much " a mifrfpre
fentatioji" as the want of cool examination
of the causes that Have produced " the dif
trefTed situation of eur commerce.",
Mr. Swanwick has written a pamphlet
not to prove the'eontrary of any thing av
erted by me, but to afford positive evidence
to every body that will have the patience to
read it, that instead of being worth nine dol
lars his creditors will probably get that
much from his estate !
" The situation of our prison" demands a
general bankrupt law to compel honefly andre
lievt misfortune." It is to be regretted that
our merchants-become fpecolators & our spe
culators merchants ; the fortuitous gains of
a season or a voyage was mijlalenly (onfalter
ed as an income ! The man who made twen
ty or ten thousand dollars by aecident seems
to have thought he had so much a year and
was entitled to set up a carriage and live in
y?:7c,ir.fteadof wifely reflecting that he should
ufc it as a capital, or an increase of his cap
ital, the benefit of which only he was autho
rized to spend. IVe have been drawing too
much upon the wealth of future times ; . our
commerce has not so much out-grown the
natural disposition of its strength as the ideas
of some of our merchants in not confidcr
ing that throughout the world it has been
and wjll continue liable to ebbs and flows ; .the
| wife will and benefit by the turns of
:h<j tide, and the weak and thcrunwary will
be neapt.
In Dunlap and Claypoole'i paper in June
or July 1795, upon the appearance of a
rupture between Spain and Great-Britaiu,
I ventured to' express an opinion " that it
was advisable to adopt a state of ftri& neu
trality," and recommended a proclamation
,to that effeft (under another fignatufe) ;
it did not then become neceflary, but when
the present war commenced it. was ifiiied and
the beneficial effeftsofit are universally ad
mitted. Mr. Ames eloquently urged the
fullfilment of the treaty with Great-Britain
te avoid a war, and our late beloved Prtfulent
wifely cautioned us to " beware in our re
sentment against om natiog not to throw
ourselves into the feale of another." Are
we then hastily now to forego or hazard in
the mojl diflant degree all the blcftings of peace
and internal tranquility to be revenged on
" a Fiench marauder ?" No Mr. Fenno, we
had much better be five years without any fo
reign commerce (we can do very well without
it) than one year with war. Wt have cho
sen to negotiate, and until that is at an end
the United States cannot with propriety
take any other step.
A FRIEND TO LAWS & FREEDOM.
Bee. 17 th.
From a IVafhington (Penn.J Paper.
EXTRACT
FROM BACHE'S PAPER OF NOV. 6.
Extraß of a letter from a Gentleman in Wash
ington County, to his friend in this City,
dated 6Sober 17 I 797.
" The Republican Ticket has carried by
a great majority in this County for the As»
fembly. ,
" The Aristocrats succeeded in getting
their Senator—John Woods is elefted—
The dittrift of Pittsburgh turned out nine
hundred votes—lt is said they have but five
hundred taxables, we may therefore conclude,
that there has nqt been fair play. BeGdes
the Addifon junto fixed upon a stratagem
which lc cured Wood's Eleftion, and they
were confident also of carrying Mem
bers of Affcmbly. The buiinef6 was this:
Addifon by management got himfelf ap
pointed a of the Ele&ion for the dif
tri£l of Wafinrigton, the result therefore,
was, that the Ele&ion lavvgf 1785 vvps en
forced in this diftrift. No man was allow
ed to vote who did not produce his certifi
cate of alleigance, or made oaih that he had
done so agreeably to the afts of afiembly,
or naturalized agreeably to the aits of Cbn
grefs. By this febeme, four hun
dred in this diftrift were deprived of voting, !
whose votes would hzve been alri;o!t to a
man against the junto, as the. i igiiers here
are generally republicans.
I "In Pittsburgh they pursued a different
j plan—there they let every body vote, and
I more than everv body—furthe* they kept
emiflfaries at the' windows to foree the people
to put in their tiekets. —One of these emis
saries, since the eleftion, has been heard to
fay that " they treated the damn'd rascals
1 (meaning tl>e country people, &c.) as.they
' ought, to be ; fur on their comihg up It vote, if
I they had not their ticket, they obliged them to
change before they got leave to put them in."
--• V I
The abdve evtraft from Bache's paper
(the common fewet'of all the filth in the
date) is 4 small fpeciinwi of that impudence
and falfehood which the meancft of those
they call demdtfrafts trumpet abroad, to de
ceive simple men. If one may form a con
jeflure from its (fyle and matter, it is the
joint work of Sleepj Davie and Dr. Mor
pheus, tfie vise' min of the East and the
Weft. They carried on a very pretty cor
refpoiidcncc of this kind, jull before the lad
election of electors, and, from their great
deputation in this wiy, it is not at at all un
fair to set them down as the putative fathers
of all the trash from Washington to Phila
delphia.
The- impudence of calling the fuccefsful
ticket for representatives in Washington
county, the republican tifcket, is only match
ed by calling the men termed democrats re
publicans by way of distinction. It will
not fcrYe them to compare thtf understanding
and virtue of the two tickets or the two par
ties. A set of Wretches in France, the otoft
notorious f«r {.heir crimes and theirbafenefi,
for their hatred to all religion and all govern,
ment but that of mobs and clubs, were dis
tinguished by the name of excluftve patriots.
The Pharisees amoig the Jews affe&ed to
be righteous and dyfpifed others. Tliey
were po(»pou4,prtCPudtrs to. religion,' but
noted for hypocrisy and oppression. Ttiis
letter writer and his republicans are of this
class, or the dupes of fiich. They are Sthe
Freach exclusive patriots—the Pharisees in
politics—rW-hited fepplchres which indeed
appear beautiful without, but within arc
full of rottenness and dead men's liones.—
There are among them men of, warm arid en
thwfiafUe minds who fancy all men as ready
to be governed by rcaton as themselves, de
rive all their notions of government from
theory, and have never had them cerrefled
by experience. There are alfd among them
honest apd simple men, who have never had
an opportunity of examining the principles
and tulesof government, who believe every
rant, every tale, and every (lander; and
whose credulityisferverted into a confidence
that our government is oppression, and our
officers tyrants. , These men may sometimes
deserve our pity, sometimes our esteem.
But the base and detestable class of our felf
flyled republicans is ps another kind. Some
times ignorant, sometimes intelligent, some
times weajt, fonaetiines able, they are vain,
impudent,"eftvious malignant and flauderous
—and.their malice and d«famation is always
in proportion to the.virtue and refpeftabili
ty of the ctiara Aer they attack. From such
men what good and great man can hope to
efcapc, when " not IVifhington himfelf is
fafe."—Their praise it a certain mark of
disgrace, and their obloquy of merit. The
wife willalk up other encomium than their
censure ; nor desre a more pointed stigma
on bad men than their applause. It is an
indelible mark on every Cain of the country.
Of this kind are your letter-writers who.
write of things which never happened, and
your letter-publilheri who publidi letters
that never were written. And it is by their
lies and misrepresentations) that discontents
murmurs and confufions are bred among
ourfelves—raud injuries and contempt tow
ards lis foftered in foreign nations.
" The ariflocrats succeeded in getting
their senator—John Woods eleited."
And this is attributed to fraud in Pktfburg,
and'the exclusion of three or four hundred
unqualified votes in Washington. As to
the word ari/loirat, I have never undertfood
what it meant, and thought even the silliest
Were* afilamed to use it its a terra of reproach.
.If fnccefs in eleftion were any tell of ehar
after, a comparison between the'two-candf
dates would itelf-juftHy the success of Mr.
Woods. He had in the three counties put
together, a majority of nearly 700 votes—
and in the county of Allegheny, where he
and Mr. Morton both lived, a fnajority i»f
nearly 900. In Greene county Mr. Mor
ton had a majority of about 16, and in
Washington county of about aoo. In these*
cotintiee Mr. Morton hada great advantage,'
he was but little known, and his qualifica
tions were taken on the word of republican
letter-writers. I believe Mr. Morton is an
honed man enough, and may make a very
decent member, oreven elder, in any church.
But surely he is no Solomon, and it will
hardly be pretended that hchasthe qualifica
tions of a legidator.
" The diftritt of Pitt(burg tuVned out
nink hunbrep votes—lt 'n said they have
but five hundred taxables." This will do ve
ry well for Philadelphia ; but, foolifh and
lying as the author is, he would not, I
think, have liked to have ptfhlilhed this in
Pittfbilrg. This is a lie of uncommon im
pudence. There are, I think, at ftaft five
hundred taxables in the borough of Pittf
burg itfelf ; and in the didrii!t of Pittf
biirg; whyre there were but nine hundred
votes, there be at lea(t fifteen hun
dred toters', exclusive of the settlers 011 the
wed of the Allegheny river, and north of
the Ohio river. For this diftriA includes
an extent rtf perhaps t\Venty miles On the O
hio and Monongahela, and fotrr or five miles
back from those rivers—and perhaps twen
ty-four miles on the Allegheny and Monon--
gabela, and spur or five miles back from
those rivers.—And, belides these it includes
all the new settlements on Beaver, and all
the other settlements wed of the Allegheny
and north of the Ohio, except the CufTawa*
go and Prefqu'ifle settlements. What an
impudent liar this republican Is! And,
when thisrvaft. drftiiiV.mnitd out but 900
votes, how malignant is his concliifion,
" that there Was not fair play."
What is said of" the Affdifon junto,dra
tagem, and management," ir. tpo unmean
ing, in it a present fhape,'to dcfai ve any re
mark, A better opportuqity will perhaps
occur. I (hall now only fay, it i 9 foolifli as
Davie Acbefon's petitions, and falfe as his
affidavits.
" Yhe election law of 1785 was enforced
in the diftridt of Walhington. No man
was allowed to vot,e who did not produce
his certificate of allegiance, or made oath
that he had done so agreeably to the adte
Of alfembly, or naturalized agreeably to the
a&s of congress."—Nothing is more odious
to your republicans of thin, damp than en
forcing laws ; and this is what they hate
mod in officers. Government and officers
would be very liarmlcfs and good things if
they would not enforce laws, and re lira in
the rights of republicans to do what they
please, whether lawful or unlawful. The
statement made by this letter-writeris about
as true, as that which he and his brother
republicans spread all over Washington
county, when David Achefon'; vote was
rejefted, as an alien, at the township election
for an Honeft David sent ex
prefles to the feverjl didrifts to inform
them, that all the IRISH were to be ex
cluded ; —and a wife uncla. of his said witti
ly I suppose, they were all to be .hanged.
The truth is, that the law, not of 1785
but of 1789, was .enforced again (tall aliens,
whether.lrifh or Scotch—But no man born
in America—no man who in any of
the United States, at their separation from
Britain—no man, who in 9ny way was an
American citizen, was ever called to pro
duce a certificate, or other proof, of his
having taken an oath of allegiance. Yet
it was reported, and you fee the republican
letter-writer reports, v that a certificate or
oath was. required from all and this was, so
well believed,jhaf, when it was known that
representative Achefon* s feat.would.#e dis
puted, Jsecairfe he was not a citizen ; a col
league of his in the republican ticket was a
fraid that he, though a native of Pennsyl
vania would also be turned out, becaufehe
had never taken an oath ofajlegiance. Whe
ther it was the alien, representative that in
spired this fear in the citizen, to secure one
vote for himfelf, I did not enquire.
That it is proper to exclude aliens from
any agency in our government I think no
wife man will doubt. Before they under
take to judge or to manage our intereds,
they ought to have time to learn them.—
And, after the term of probation is expired
it is reasonable, that there be some solemn
\*(k of their adtniffion as citizens. The let
ter-writer will tell you why. " The foreign
ers here are generally republicans." Often
coming from governments whiclithey hate,
t-hey are told by ou» republicans here, that
our government and officers hive all the
faults of every other. Lies are made and
tales ffcigned, to confirm* their opinion.
Strangers hare no means of dete&ing the
misrepresentation, they beliete all, join
themselves with the ftanderers, and are hon
ored with tjie title of republicans. After
some years they get better information, or
their own observation enables them to cor
reft their mistakes: from foreigners they
beepme citizens; but Alas! 0111 exclulive
patriots no longer own them as republicans.
"In Pitt (burgh, they pursued a differ
ent plan—there they let every body vote—
and more than every body"—Prodigious!
—Yes and they did "force the people to
put ill their tickets." What barbarian Ar
istocrats thofc people of Pitt(burgh are !
Yes and " they treated the damn'd rascals
(meaning" to be sure " tbc country people,
&c.) as they ought to be, This I take to
be one of the plain down-right lies, which
it is not lawful for any but a republican to
utter. It does not fee'm to have the lead
mixture of Ariftgcratic truth, or even to fc?
at all corrupted with probability. I (hall
not therefore pollute it with any obfm va
tion of mine. *
SlirEß COIN FOUND
On the I Bth Aug. soon after the removal of
a dung heap in a yard ■ at Winterborne Stoke,
Wilts, an earthen vtffel containing 301 pieces
of silver coin, -was discovered, the top of the
vessel being even with the fut'face of the earth
The coins are all of the reign of James I. and
Charles I. and notwithjianding the situation
in which they lay, are remarkablefrefh and
•wellprefervrd. It is conjeßured they were bu
ried during the civil war in Charles's reign,
when probably fume building covered the spot,
and that fsnce, a dung heap has f>een laid there,
its repeated removals have occasioned the earth
to be gradually scraped away, till it became
even with the rim of the vessel. A girl of
fourteen, daughter to the farmer who occupies
the yard, d\fcovered the prize, and removed it
with (jfe to her fathers'* house. —Eng.Pap.
DIES—At Dundee, Scotland, Mr
Francis Sievewright, Schoolmaster,' The un
common success which has attended ■the labours
of this respeHed veteran, affords remarkable
exemplif. cation of what may be effected by perse
vering industry, without any extraordinary
attainments, either of genius, or of education.
During the lafl fifty tears for so long has he
officiated as a public teacher in.Dundee—many
thousands of the youth of that , town and its
vicinity have been under his care, and have
been prepared for the pursuits" bf busy life by
his ins'.ruSio'ti. His profession was his
meat, his drink, his pleasure, and his pride
and his devotion to its duties was carried to
a high degree of enthusiasm, which was strong
ly manifested even when the hand of death was
upon him. With these qualities, added to much
private and genuine warth, he was a most ttfc
ful and estimable memb-r of society, and as sueh
"his death is justly regarded ar a public loss It
is remarkable t'.at the Grandfathers of several
of his last pupils wer: also taught by him. He
died on Monday se'nnight, in the 86thyear of
h s. age. .
CONGR E S S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES..
MONDAY DECEMBER 18.
Mr. Dwight Fofler mote«l that the com
mittee of claims be discharged fiora the.
further consideration of the petitions of
Israel Jones and Edward" Johnson, as they,
had already bten reported upon at>a former
fefiion, awd no frefh facts appeared to in
duce the committee to report differently-
Agreed.
The fame gentleman made an unfavour
able report on the petition of Mary Ivings,
which was concurred ifi by the house.
Mr. Harper, from the committee of ways
and means* made a report on the petition
of William Tomlinfon, and others, citizens
of Virginia, who complained of being
ed by the aft relative to the distilling of spi
rits,' to take out licences at inconvenient
seasons. The report recommends a lavr to
be passed to obviate their complaints. It
was committed for to-morrow.
Mr. Livingftoti, from the commute of
commerce and manufactures, reported a bill
for the relief of North and Vcfy, of Charles- -
ton;— Committed for to-morrow » i
On motion of Mr. Harper, the house re-,
solved itfelf into a committee of the whole,
on certaio resolutions which were lately re
ported, prescribing the mode of taking e*i
dence in safes of contested eleftions. They
were agreed to both in the committee of the
whole, and in the house, without debate,
and a bill direfted to be brought in accord
ingly.
Mr. Venable, from the committee to
whom was referred the resolution for sus
pending the second feftion of the aft for re
gulating foreign coin, and ether purpofes,i
reported a bill, which was twice read, and
committed for to-morrow.
Mr. Wadfworth moved the order of the
day on the bill authorising the President of
the United States to poftpoiie the meeting
of Congress in certain cafe J. The house
accordingly went into a committee of the
whole on the fubjeft, and, after making a
verbal the committee rose, and
the houft-agreed toil; when
Mr. Gallatin moved a provision to the
following effeft : " Provided that the day
to which the meeting shall be postponed
(hall flat exceed thirty days from the day to-,
which Congress flood adjourned.'!
Mr. Harper could not fee any good effeft
which this amenndment was calculated to
produce. If the gentleman -were of opin
ion that it would not be fafe to trust the
President of the United States wi|Ji th«
power of postponing the meeting qf Con
gress, in cafe of a contagious sickness, or o
ther calamity, the fafeft way would be
rejeft the bill; but the present motion, he
thought, (hewed great hostility, and the
highest difrefpeft, to the President of the
Uuited States.
Mr. Gallatin said, it was extraordinary,
that upoa an amendment to a bill veiling a
ppwer in the President of the Unitfd States,
which was not given to hita by the coafti
tution, because he did not wi(h to invest him
with the powsr, without limitation, he
fliould be charged wijh a want of confidence
and a want of refpeft. He fuppafed, that
so far as related to confidence, they wertr
bound to give the President just so much as
the constitution required, and no. more.—
Confidence beyond this he did not veiy well
understand. As to the motion's containing
a want of refpeft to the President, that
charge was (till less applicable. Refpeft,
he said, could only be personal, and could,,
of courje, only apply to the present Presi
dent ; whereas the bill under consideration
did not relate to him only, but to all future
Presidents of the Unilcd States. How the
argument of difrefpeit to men not. yet. iij
existence, could apply, he was at loss to
know. Cvt, he said, it was no uncommon
thing, whenever gentlemen Offered in opin
ion on any fubjeft touching another branch
of the government, however harmless that
opinion might be, to be charged with a want
of confidence and refpeS towards it. He
(houhl, however, never be deterred from aft
ing as he ahought right h,y such arguments.
Mr. G. referred to that part of the C®n
ftitytioH where it is said, that, " neither
House, during the feflion of Congref*, (hall
without the consent of the other, adjourn
for more than three days, nor to any other
place than that in which the two Houses
(hall be fitting and also to that where
power is given to the President " to con
vene both houses, or either of then* on ex
traordinary occalions ; and, in cafe of dis
agreement between them, with refpeft to
the time of adjournment, he may adjourn
them to such time as he may think proper."
It wa3 clear, therefore, that the two houses
had the exclusive power to adjourn to what
ever time they pleased, only that in cafe of
difagretment, the President had the power
to adjourn them j but this bill went to vest
the power in the President of fixing another
period of meeting than that agreed upen by
the two houses. This, he said, was a de
licate fubjeft, and he thought they ought
not, upon so (light a vie.-v as the prefc.t
bill had received, to part with a power,
without some limit, which the Constitution
had placed in their Hands. What was the
ground, he alked, upon which the hill was
founded ? The President had fuggefttd, in
his Speech, the propriety of giving him
the power, in cafe of similar returns of con
tagions sickness, to poflpone the meeting
of- Congress. It had been suggested that
in the month of November, the President
had had doubts whether he (hould convene"
Congress in another place, in conformity to
the poweV placed in him for that plirpofe ;
but that if'. ehad had the power tohave con*
ventd them a few|days later, he would have
done it. The limited power which he pro-'
posed to give would enable the President, in
any future" emergency, to do this, and if,
from contagious sickness, invasion or any o
ther.cause, a longer postponement (honld ap
pear to be necessary, be tho't it would tebetter tUflf Conjjrefs fhruld be convened at
some other place, t:nn that furh a postpone
ment should take place. He did not think
the President asked for more than this 5 and
so far from being difrefpeftful, he thought
it the only way in which the bill could be
agreed to.
Mr. Harper admitted, that if nb other
cafe were contemplated by this bill than the
one lately experienced, the proposed limit
might be admitted, as harmlcfs ; as by the
Constitution, Congress must have been in
fefiion about the beginning of December,
and thirty days would not have elapsed from
the second Monday in November to the pe
riod fixed by the constitution for the meet
ing of Congress. He truft:d, however,
they should tot pass a law without an ofcjcft.
Suppose, said he, Congress flood adjourned
to the Ift of July, or lft of August, and
a contagious disorder should break out, or
an enemy invade the city, a few day* before
eit'uet of those periods, might it not be de
finable that the President (hould have the
# p«wer of postponing the meeting for longer
than thirty dap* ? If such a disorder were
to break out in June, could it be supposed
that it would subside in July, when it was
clear to every one that nothing but froft. will
fiut an end to the contagion ? This amend
ment, therefore, where it could be afted up
on' at all, would be mischievous, aad in other
cases perfectly nugatory. As to refpeft and
confidence,-he did not mean that they should
be induced by them to do an im;n oper thing.
Cut if it were proper to place the power in
question in the hands of the President, he
would not have it so placed as to be nuga
tory and foolifh. The gentleman had found
out that refpeft could only be personal,
though all mankitid had agreed that refpeft
might be paid to offices, separate from per
sons. He never supposed that the law
would be particularly difrefpeftful to the
present President; but it seemed to (hew too
grt'at a jealousy of the Executive Depart
ment. The 1 gentleman feemed-to think the
difficulty would be removed by the Prefi
dertt's- having the power to convene Con
gress at-a different place; but he did not
consider what expence and trouble would
attend a removal of all the Machinery of
government. He could not suppose that if
the proposed power were placed in the Pre- |
fident, that he would postpone Congress for (
a longer period, at arty time, than was ne
cessary. His own credit would be a fuffi
cient guard agaiiaft this. The Gentleman
from Pennsylvania himfelf could scarcely be
lieve that it would not.
Mr. Swanwick said, that when congress
adjourned to any other day than that fixed
th|> Constitution, they had doubtless
some reason for doing so. If this were the
cafe, why (hould they put it in the power of
the President to fruftrate their views. But
th* expence of removing the government
had been objefted against. This could not
be allowed to be so great an evil as the part
ing with the power which had been vested in
them, of fixing their own time of meeting.
He thought the motion of his colleague to
limit the postponement to thirty days, would
be'' lite fuffieient, if fnch a power was ne
cessary at all, though be thought that of
convening congress at any other place, was
fuffieient tp guard against the contingencies
which Wfbeen mentioned.
' Mr. Nicholas believed giatleraen could
not fifrnre to themselves a cafe where, if a
postponement were proper, thirty days
would not be a fuffieient time. The con
stitution said, they (hould meet once a year;
but that the two houses (hould have power
to adjourn themselves to any time that they
thought proper ; and if they agreed to meet
in July or August, as the gentleman from
S. Carolina had fuppoftd, was it proper that
the President of, the United States (hould
have thepower of preventing them ? He would
agree, that in all likelihood, his refpeft for
his own charafter and his refpofibility,
Would in general, prevent him from mak
ing an improper use of this power ; yet still
it was a power vested in the legifiature, and
it fhonld be recollefted that in placing the
different powers of the government, there
had always been a jealousy over the execu
tive. He could well suppose that c Yes
might exist, where the wishes of a President
to do right, might be counterafted by in
terefl. It was possible that the President
and legifiature might have different views,
and it might be extremely important to him
to effeft his purposes, to have the power of
postponing the meeting of congress. If
these different cases were within the view of
the framera of the constitution, when they
arranged the several powers of the govern
ment, they ought to be touched with a de-,
licate hand. The law before them was
meant to operate principally against any fu
ture contagious sickness. To give the pow
er of l postponing congress for five or fix
months, would he an improper power. No
thing that he had fcen of the present gov
ernment could lead him to suppose that such
a situation of things as tbat which he had
mentionad (hould ever take place, by a disa
greement in the different branches, but he
believed the distribution of powers had been
made with a view to thefe 1 differences. He
therefore hoped, the power would be limit
ed.
Mr. Thatcher did not know that the
house could be engaged on a fubjeft of less
importance than the present amendment ;
for if they looked back upon a'l the adjourn
ments which had taken place since the com
mencement of tfie government, there had
been only one or two cases in which the .a
mendment could have operated ; and it was
not. probable that in fifty years to came,
there would be another. He supposed a
number of cases, in which the amendment
would either have no effeft, or a bad one.
He hoped, therefore, it )vould be disagreed
tq.
Mr- Wadfworth could fee no good effeft
which itie amendment could produce, as the
time was already limited by the constituti
onal day, and thinking it unncceffary, he
(hould be opposed to it.
, The question upon the amendment was
p\it, and negatived, 4.5 to 44.
1 lie question now heuigon the engrossing
of the bill for a third reading,
Mr. N. Smith said, he did not at present
fee the propriety of palling this bill. Per
haps gentlemen in favour of it, could fatis
faftorily explain its principles. They had
not been explained, and until tjiey were, he
should not be willing to vote for it. The
Constitution, he said, provided that there
should be one session in a year, commencing
the firft Monday in December. Thebill be
fore them provided that whenever an earlier
period of meetiag should be fixed by law,
that the President (hould have the power to
poftpon* the meeting, provided that the
postponement did notgo beyond the consti
tutional day. Now he supposed there Viould
not be a meeting of Congress before the
constitutional day, except by an express
law. If this were the cafe, it followed, that
whenever the legifiature should pass a law
for an earlier meeting, they could at the
fame time provide for asy difficslty which
might arise. Tire Prttfidefit might be au
thorised to delay the meeting, in cafe of ne
cessity, to the constitutional day, or any o
ther ; but why pass a general law to provide
for inconveniences which may possibly grow
out of some future law ? He had heard of
legiflatureS. providing for difficulties arising
from laws which they had passed, but never
far fueh as might be' supposed to grow out
of future laws, the parting of which was
wholly uncertain. As well might they fit
down and provide for inconveniences which
may grow out of a law laying a land tax ;
since that law may pass, and some gentlemen
may wish and expeft it will pass. He tho't
however, it would be tim» enough to pro
vide for the difficulties arising under it, af
ter it was passed. He might be told that
be told that the law, notwithstanding the
objeftion he had brought against it, would
do no harm; but this was not a fuffieient
reason for him to vdte for it : before lie did
this, he must believe it would dogotd.
The question on engrossing was £ut, and
negatived, 58 to 32. Of course tbe bill
was'loft.
Mr. Livingfton, from the Committee of
Commerce and Manufaftiires, made an un
favourable report on the petitions of Archi
bald Cook, Abiel Wood, and Robert Coo
per, who all prayed for the remission of duty
on goods, which had been loft and deftroy
|ed.
On motion of Mr. Sewall, this report
was re-committed, as he said he had receiv
ed some frelh documents in support of the
claim of R. Cooper. Mr. Thatcher also
wished that the cafe of Cook and Wood
might be also recommitted.-*—Agreed.
Mr. A. Foster called for the order of the
day oh the report of Committee of
Claims on the petition of Edward St. Loe
Liv<;rmore, ■ which being agreed to, the
House went into a comuiitte of the whole
on the fubjeft.
i It appears that from the fingalar situati
on of the Judge of the Diftrift of New-
Hampshire, on the 3d of April, 1794, Con
gress were induced to pass an aft, whereby
the duties enjoined on the Diftrift Judges,
by the aft " to regulate the claims to inva
lid pensions," were transferred, as far as re
luted to the diftrift of New-Hampshire, to
*he Attorney of the said diftrift, whose du
ty it was thereby made to perform the fame.
The objeft of this petition is to obtain com
penfatio* for the difeharge of th£ said duties
> and as duties have been required and per
formed under the laws of the United States,
by the petitioner, the committee conceived
; he was entitled to a reasonable compensation
j and submitted a rrfolution to the House, au
thorising the accounting officers of the
Treasury to fettle his account.
This report occasioned some debate. It
was supported as reasonable by Messrs. D.
and A. Foster, Gordon and Brookes, and
opposed by Messrs. Nicholas and Coi|, 011
the ground, that no expence was ever con
templated to be incurred by the business in
question, and that if they allowed a compen
sation in this cafe they might expeft appli
cation from all the officers of the United
States, whenever any new duty was laid u
pon them by laws subsequent to their ap
pointment.
The report was negatived 43 to 31, and
the House concurred in the votes.
Mr. Sitgrcaves said, the House had made
afubjeft the order of the day for to-morrow
upon which he did not think they had fuf
fieient information; he meant the bill rela
tive to Foreign Coins. The last report
which had been received from the Direftor
of the Mint was in 1796, and all the calcu
lations which had been made in the course
of the late debate were founded upon that
Report, and not upon the present aftual
state of that establishment. He should,
therefore, propose a resolution to the fol
lowing effeft:
" Resolved, that the direftor of the mint
be direfted to report to this House a state
ment of all the Bullion deposited in the mint
since his last report, and an account of gold
and Silver Coin issued from the Mint in the
fame period; distinguishing in the ftatcment
of deposits, the Foreign Coin from the Bul
lion."
Mr. Nicholas had no objeftion to this
if it were not meant to postpone
confideration of the bill which the gen
tleman had alluded to; as any postponement
of that business would have the effeft which
some gentlemen had said was already pro
uuced, of dbing all the mifchief which the
aft, if not repealed, was calculated to pro
duce. He could fee no "ffeft which this re
port could produce as to the bill in ques
tion.
Mr. Sitgrcaves said, the gentleman from
Virginia misapprehended his intention, if he
supposed he meant to delay for a single mo
ment the bufiuefs he alluded to. If he had
any such intentions, he would have taken a
direst mode of effefting his purpose: he left
it to others to pursue their ends by indireft
means. He wished only to correft the state
ments which had been made on tbe fubjeft,
collefted from an old report, ".'Mch might
be done and sent to the Houfo by to mor
row morning.—Carried.
Mr. Sewall presented the petition of Si
mon Forrefter, praying for the *mifi)on of
the duty on certain hemp which had been
destroyed by lire.—Rcferre" t« the commit
tee of commerce and manufactures.
On motion of Mr. Sftgwaves, the reso
lution referring that part of the Prelident's
speech which had reference, to a proviiion
for the expences of carrying into effeft the
6th article of the Treaty wi h Great-Bri
tain, to a committee, was referred to the
committee of ways and means.
Adjuttrntd.
PENNSTL FAN IA L ■■GISLATURE.
ZJ " •
rlouss of Representatives.
December 16.
A retitiin from a number ol citizens of Ch m
b-t ib-irgli 111 the county of Franklin, praying an
aA to incorporate that town, was prcfinted, rtaj
■and referred to a committee.
A Setter from Jonathan Williams and Reynold
Keen two of theaffociatt judges of this diftriit,
stating the various ferviccs they are called upon,
to perform, the great length of time such services
require, and the incompetence of their salaries,
W.'.J pie'.ented and read.
Mr. Evans called up his rcfcilution for the ap
pointment of a committer to bi>iii£ ln a-MN to per
petuate the aft extendingtb?powers of thejuftioes
of the psace. which was made the order of the
day for Thursday next.
A committee was appointed to join a committee
of the feaate to com pate engrolTcd bills'and to
prefetit them governor for his approbation. I
The report oi tjic committee appo ared to ?s~
the fii*>jrs matter <jf the governor**
wan rea<l a second tinne.
Th.it which relate-; to the health laws was re
ferred to the committee already .appointed.
That which relates to thu ftat.liflimcnt ofpub'ic
fihcols wa«rtf<rrred to.a fui -.1 committee, »oufflt
inii of « mrmliT from each county.
The further confirieratioii of the report was jiofl
poned, as the hour had arrived for tht tppoint
mratof * committee to try the cUilion «f Jacob
ShcftftiaU r.
The house proceeded to the foruiatien of a com
mitte» recording tc law ; the names of the num
bers present were called were wrote upon flips
of paper, rolled up and put into a box ; they
were then put alternately into three boxes, and the
clsck i',r.W a name out of each box alternately j
two tellers took dawn the nanies as they were calU
td by the speaker ; the parties were present and
had the right to challenge until feveatsen names
only remained out of the whole number; after the
seventeen names were drawn unchallenged,>aeh
•f the parties was furniflicd with a lift and had the
right each to flrike offfeur, and thereby to reduce
the number to nine The parties retired and.the
following members are the committee 1 Messrs.
William Maclay, Mawhorter, Horn,' Wells, Kirk,
Rea, Philfon, Tittermary and Snyder.
The committee were direded to meet 4 o'clock
in the aft.rnoon. Adjourned.
NEW-YORK, December 16.
From Jamaica papers received lajl evening.
Kimcston. (Jam.) Odober 13.
Exttsft of a letter from Cape Nichola Mole, dated the
17th ultimo.
" The night before last the Pelican returned here
•from a eruiie, aftor a mod gallant aftion. The re-
Gonaives had fined rut a brig of 14 guns,
long fix pounders, and M| ps men, a schooner
with one nine pounder
purpofr of taking the Drake rluckily, however, they
I*ll in with the Pelican inftcad ofher, and attacVcd
her, and after an aftion of near two hours, half an
hour closely engaged, the republican brig funk, hav
ing firft (truck her colors—about 15 \>f her crew,
which at the commencement of the aftion was near
too meu, were pr< served, asd many ol them misera
bly burnt, by the blowing up of citiidges "
November 4.
We understand that Higaud haj at last taken Leo
: gsne, and that he intends going against the English
pnlToltions at Grand Anfe
By the Guinea fliips which called at Barbadors,
we learn, that the crew of the fhlp Thomas, bound
from Angola for this island, wis overpowcied by the
negroes near Barbadors, and thati4 hands, leaving the
captain, and the left to maintain a very unrquil com
bat, betook thcmfelves to the boat, wirliout an oar,
provifioni, or water. After being out 3a days, the
boat drifted to Baibadoes, when only four milcrable
wretches were found alive—lt appears that their h'i< -
ger be. oming infuppouable, thev cafl lots, in order
toalcertain who (hould die for the subsistence of the
.emainder, when the lot fell on the Doftor'j Mate,
uho accordingly was killed. The remainder,fe l
viftims tc dtfeafe, arising from the extremity of their
wants: and, of 4 who reached Barbadoes, one died
on the beach, and two were not expefted to live.
A Baibadoes paper, containing the particulars, was
Teen by the captain of the Bridget, but he hai oot
brought it with htm.
By the last arrivals from St. Domingo ac
counts are received that his Majesty's (hips
Severn aad Magicienne had failed from the
Mole to endeavour to destroy the veflels of
Commodore Barney, in Port-(Je-Paix, for
whifch purpose they are pidvided with mor
tars.
His Majesty's (hip Grampus, of 54 guns
lately arrived at C- N. Mole, from England;
on her passage some of the seamen manifef.
ted a mutinious spirit. One man who had
been a delagate on board the rautinioue fleet
at home, and had been acquitted, insulted
the Captain on the quarter deck, and was'
seconded by another of the crew, they were
however, both put ii} irons, were tried at
the Mole, and the ci-devant delegate was
executed; the other was condemned, but
awaits his Majesty's peafure.
SAVANNAH, Nov. 17.
By a gentlemen from St. Simons, wc are
favoured with the following melancholy ac
count: That on or about the firft instant,
the schooner Nancy, Capt. M'Connel, from
this port bound to St. Mary's, was.cast a
way on Wolf-Ifland inlet. The above
schooner was chartered by a col. Deitx, who
lately arrived here from New York, and
who together with his wife, daughter and
servant, and a Mr. Lttvin Bowen, cordwai
ner of this crty, took their passage- The
keel aad one fide of the has been
found driven alhore on the Beach oppefite
were it is fuppofod (he had went to pieces;
but nothing has been heard of any of the
crew or pafiengers, except Mr. Bowen, who
was found dead on the sth inft. 011 the north
end of little St. Simon's, above high water
mark, by our informant. Several articles
together with some papers belonging to Col.
Deitz, have been found, which place it be
yond a doubt that they muit have all perilh
ed. He hae specie on board to the amount
of 10,000 dollars, bef;das other property,
and Mr. Bowen property to the amount of
15,00. —Col. Deitz was going to St. Ma
ry's with a view't'o take tip his rvu Tence
there.
WILMINGTON,- f(N. C.) Nov.'
We are authorized to fjy, and from
pretty good authority, that the French. Re
publicans are in quiet ppftiffion of LouiGan
—Particulars, if any, in our next.
%\)t ©alette*
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 19.
LAW OF THE STATES.
iStuthotity
'Fifth Congress of the United States :
AT THE SECOND SESSIOK,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia,
in the Stateof Pennfylvania,on Monday,
the thirteenth of November, one
thousand fcven hundred and
liinety-feveo.
An ACT to pojlpone, for d Hjnitcd time, the
commencement of the duties imfiafcd by the
aS, intituled " An a 9 laying dmi'S onjlamp
ed vellum, parchment and papet
BE it enaSed ly the Senate and Hiufe of Re
pi efentatives of tlx Ignited States of A
merica, in Congress affemlled, That so much
of the aft, intituled " An aft laying duties
pn damped vellum, parchment and paper"
as direfts that the duties imposed by that
aft, (hall be levied, collefte'd hnd paid " from
and after the thirty firft day of December
next," (hall be, and the fame hereby is re
pealed ; and that rhe duties aforgfaid (hall
be levied, collefted and paid, from ir.ti af
ter the thirtieth day of June next, and not
sooner ; to which last mentioned day, all no
tices,certificates,and other matters or things,
direfted by the said aft, and having refpeft
to the commencement or colleftion of the
said duties, or any of them, (hall relate.
Jonathan Dayton, Speaker if the
House of Representatives.
Th : Jefferson, Vice-Prefdent of the
United States, and President of the Senate.
Approved Dec.")
I<i. 1797- J
JOHN ADAMS, President of the
United States.
Depofitcd among the rolls in the office of
the Department of State.
Timothy Pickering, Secretary of State.
MARRTED—On Saturdajevening last,
by the Rev. Mr. Abercrombie, Capt. John
Munn, to Miss Sufau James, both ef this
city.
& It is expefted that Dr. Coke will
preach at the Methodist Church in Fourth
street, at 6 o'clock, this evening the 19th
inft.
We understand thatthe execution of Ow
en O'Hara, for murder, is to take place on
Saturday next.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED from
?ch'r Fancy, Houlton, N. Providence
Sally, Stipgs, R Inland
Eliza, Wation, Virginia
Sloop Yarico, Halkii, Boilon
CLEARED for
Ship Edward, Wickhaui, Amsterdam
BrigTryal, Knox. Trinidad
Sch'r Favo-ite, Shaw, S ivannah
John Brown, Strattan, Norfolk
Sloop Polly, Baker, St. Vincentj
The schooner Patriot, captain Hammet, from Go
naivea, is below.
The George, Follet, from St. Übrs, and Maria,
Jane, Blunt, from Hamburg, are arrived at Portf
mouih, N. H;
New Tori, Dec. 18.
The Ellice, Harvey, from London to
this port, is taken by a French privateer,
and carried for the Weft-Indies. A packet
arrived last evening from New-Haven brings
this informatiaA-—and that captain Harvey,
the paffengersand seamen had arrived at
that place.
Boston, December 11.
Thiiday arrived ftiip Sarah, Pollard, from a whal
ing voyage, 18 m. (ram hence, with 1800 barrels,
owned by Jeffrey and Rnffel Lelt at St. Helena, the
«oth September, (hips Commerce, Rowfon, of East
Haddsm, 150 bbls Criterion, Hilldrige, of Sagg
Harbour, 650 bbls. Minerva, Pele-, of do. lsqbll;.
Kitty, Fowler, of do. 700 blls. brig Mary, Godby,
of do. 400 bbls. all bound to Brazils. At Filhby,
(hips Joanna, Coffin, o'l Nantucket; Eliffia, M'Ken
aie, of New-York, 500 bbls.' Lenox, Long, of Bos
ton, 650 bbls. bound to Brazils* Spoke nolhiug but
what has arrived.
Captain Pollard informs, tfyat the (hip Joanna,
captain Coffin, had been round Cape Horn three
times, but blown off by distress of weather, with the
loss of his boati, spars, top-masts and caboose; in
which distressed situation he returned to Filhby to
repair ; and when equipped, would have made many
barrels ol oil,[the whales being very plenty, and play,
inft round his vessel; but was prevented from exer
cising his aftivc ewerprife aud bravery, by an aimed
letter of maique, commanded by captain Clark, from
the Cape, With orders 10 prevent American whale
men from Bfhing, until the Britilh vessels were sup
' piicd; those ordeis were ftriftly enforced by captain
Clark,ainiil the season was haltover; when he qult
i ted 'he ftaiion, leaving fimtlar orders with the other
; Englilh commanders, (4 in number) —more generous
j than Claik, those commandedfuffeied the Americans
to whale without interruption j and when the season
was over, invited them on board their veffcls, and
j shewed the proclamation, which excluded them from
, a ptivilege ot whaling while any Biiiifh veffcls were
on the (tation. Obfeiving, that although they had
allowed them the common privilege, it wa> then ne
ciffaiy ihey (hauld quit the harbour, ui order to pre
vent that censure which might otherwilt? fall on them
for negleft of duty.
• * . >
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK,' Dec:. 18.
. IMPORTANT ! j !
Captain Rumford, of ths brig Sir John
Wcntworth, in 21 days from Martinique,
informs us,, that two days previous to his
failing, an English armed brig belonging to
Lancaster, arrived there in 32 days frora
Liverpool, with the important news of ad
miral Duncan's engagement with and com
plete victory over the Dutch fleet from the
Texel, which happened about the 12th of
Odtoter.
In "this engagement admiral Duncan cap
tured eight Jhipt of the line, and "a lifty gun
fliip, among which were two admiral-hips.
The account states it to have been a fcvere
and bloody battle.
Admiral Duncan's fliip was> in a disabled
state, towed to, and anchored ofF, Dover,
tvith four feet water in her hold ; and, ayi,
and feme other veffcls were sent from the
Downs to pick up the disabled Ihips.
In consequence of the reception of thi*
news at Martinique, every armed vessel at
St. Piers, fired guns of rejoicing.
The news of this vidlory was ptiblifhed in
an Extra, paper the day the brig left Liver
pool ; one of which papers capt. R. saw at
Martinique.
This will, by many, be ealled Weft-India
news, and of course, diibelieved, but, from
tha veracity of the capt. and the positive
manner in which he states the above particu
lars, we cannot heiitate in declaring it to
be our opinion that it is well founded.
The njght before the brig ftom Liver
pool arrived at Martinique, flic fell in with
the F reach privateer Satis Pareil, from Gua
daloupe, jvith which flic had a severe en
gagement—the captain former was
killed, and Several, hand# baofy wonndtd.
ARGUS ACCOUNT.
EXTRAORDINARY NEWS.
Leeked out on Saturday, a raoft impor
tant piece of intelligence if true, viz. that
the Dutch fleet, in the NortlrSeas, had met
the Entifc flset, and bft 'nine fliipi taken !
To render the ft«ry mce probable, it is ad
ded, that the Britirtt Admiral Dunce's fliip
had' nine feet of water in her hold, that se
veral other of his fleet were much disabled,
and that afrejh fleet was Tent out ta tw
them In !
This plaufille account, it would seem, is
brougkt by a British armed brig which ar
rived at this port from Martinico on Tuef.
day, but never leeked out until Saturday af
ternoon, though it fell into good hands. It
is related as follows—Tkat prior to the fail
ing of this said British armed vessel, a vessel
had arrived at Martinico with the above
account ill 32 days from Liverpool, that
great rejoicings were had at Martinico in
confequencc of it, and that he, himfelf, the
brave little Britiih armed vessel akovementi
onee, popped off many gang !
What renders this account extraordinary
in our view is, that by accounts from the
Texel to Oftober 1, we were informed,' that
in consequence of fern? difaffeaion in the
Dutch fleet, there was a disembarkation of
ma,ny thoufaeds, and no appearance of an
expedition.
NEW THEATRE.
TO-MORROW evening,
DECEMBER 20,
Will be presented a COMEDY, c»llcd the
COUNTRY GIRL, -
To which will be added a farce in two a£U
called the
IRISHMAN IN LONDON,
In which Mr. Hardinge will make his firll appear
on this Itagc.
Box, one Dollar ; Pit, three quarters of a Dol
lar j and Gallery, half a Dollar.
•%J" The doors of the Theatre will open at five,
and the curtain rife precifcly at fa o'clock.
Places tor the i?oxe« to betaken at the Office in
the front of the Theatre, from 10 till 2 o'clock,
and from to till 4 on the days of performance.
Tickets to behid at H. Rice's book-ltoce.
No, 50 Market-Greet, and at t!)e Office adjoining
the Theare. VII'A T RSSPUBLIGA t
Ffefh Kaifins.
A Small cargo, jufl arrived, and now landing
at Chcfnut street wharf, from the {loop Ya
rico. ca»t. Haflcell. confiding of Kegs, Boxes amd
jars. A few Jirs of excellent Grapes, and sack*
of foft (helled Almonds. Apply to the Matter
jn board, or to
"Jos. Anthony & Co.
December 19 * § ? t
J? or Charleston,
j —THE SHIR
VENUS,
" Lying *1 tbe wharf cf Mejrt. Ptrolls'
j w '" Freight on very
' 3w£fflS»)fcfr; O low terms, and fail the firft
opening.- Apply to the malUr on board, ©r to
Jos. Anthony & Co.
Detemberiß
CLERKS HIP. ~
A YOUNG MAN, who ceuld bring in difpa
ta&le recftmmendations, is defirons to be em
p!«yed in the capacity of copying Clerk, at a public
office—H* would engage on moderate terms.
For further particulars enquire at the office of this
Gazette. § Dee 19
Chocolate and Mustard,
of a superior quality manufactured,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; Ihelled or
pearl Barley ; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale ancl Cyder ; Taunton ar.d Button Ale ;
London Porter ; red. Port and Lilbon Wine,
luitahle for exportation or home consumption.
The highest price given for Mustard-Seed.
Also for fate, A quantify of Booking and
common Baizes, a variety of colors j a baleof
Fustians, Shawls, &c, for fate by
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, south Front-street.
»w. *7* _ _ m &th.t.lj.
Wanted, to Hire,
A I.arge and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a gea rout
rent will be given; to be taken lor a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer.
0&. 17. iotfPROPOSALS
CJRRritfG THE PUBLIC. MAILS
on the following Post Roads will be re
ceived at the General Poll Office until
the 30th clay of January next inclusive.
PENNSYLVANIA, Vfc.
I. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, Ncwc.lf-
He, Galitwell's Duck creek, L)over, Fred
erica, Miford, Cloughs, Dagfborough,
Sn whilt, Horntovvn and Accomac court house to
Northampton court house three times a week.
April I to'h'wcnbcr 15. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery TucfJay, Thuifday and Saturday at 2 a m, ar.d
lirrrive Si Northampton court house 011 Thufday,
Saturday nndMonday at pM. Returning. Leave
Northampton court hi,ufe every Friiay, Monday
an I Wodmfday at 2 a m, and arrive at Philadel
phia on Monday, Wednesday and Friday by 7 i-a
p M.
November Ic to April £. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery I'uefd y, Thursday and Saturday at 6 a M,
and ar/ive at Northampton court house on Friday,
Monday and Wednesday by 7 pm. Returning—
Leave Northampton court houfc every Saturday, '
Tuesday and Thursday at 6 a m, and arrive ac '
1 hiladelphia on Wednesday, Friday and Monday
ty 7 r m,
VIRGINIA.
2. Frora Northampton court heufe to Nftfolfe
thr?e times a week.
April Th tNivrmicr Is. Leave Northampton
court house every Monday, Wednesday and Fri
day at 8 m, and arr.ve at Norfolk in 24hours.!
flilurjiing—Leave Narfolk every Wednesday, Fri- '
day and Monduy 34AM, and arrive at Northamp- '
tori court house in twenty four hours.
Ncvemltr 15 ta April 1. Leave Northampton
court house everyTciefday, Tharfday and Saturday
at 3a m, and arrive at Norfolk in £4 hours. Re
turning—Leave Norfolk every Monday, Wednes
day and Friday by 4 a m, and arrive at Northamp
ton court house in 24 hour;.
PENNSYLVANIA & MARYLAND.
•V ! rom Philadelphia by Wilmiagton, New
port,Chriftiana,Middletown,Warwick andGoergc
tewn croft roads t*Chr{iefftoTvn threetunesa week. \
Afiy Ito jV't'* ;r r. Leave Philadelphia ffvery '
Suirttay. Tuesday and Thursday by 9 p m, andar
rve at Chcilertown the next days by 8p m. Re- 1
turri,^ —Leave Cheftertown every Monday, Wed- I \
nefday and Friday by 9p m, and Arrive at Fhila- ,
delphiathe next days by 8 P M-
November I to May I. Leav« Philadelphia eve- ,
ry Monday and Friday by 9 a m, and arrive at ]
Chellertown on Tuesday aad Saturday by 4 p m.
K.turning Leave Cheftertown Monday and ,
Friday by 8 a m, and ii-rive it I'hiladelt'liia on
tuesday salafJay by 4P m.
MARYLAND. t ]
4. From Cheftertown by Centerville, Eafton, .
Newmarket, Vienna, SaWbury, Snowhill and Prin- :
ctfs Aon ta Ss'iftsry Dtice a week.
Receive the mail at Cheftertown every Wednef- 1
day at 7 am arrive at Eafton by 4p M. Leave 1
Eafton on Thursday by 6a m, arrive at Snowhill ]
on Friday by 1 p. m, and at Vrincels Ann by 6 p.
m. Returning—LeavePrincefs Ann on Saturday by a
10 a m, arrive at Eafton the ne*t day or Monday j
hy 6p w Leave Eafton on Tuesday by IA M,and <
arrive at Cheftertown fame day txy 4 p m. i
5. From Harford by Bel-Air to the Black hoife
ones a week.
Leave Harford every Tuesday by 10 A M, and
arrive at Blackkorfe by "6 pm. Returning—Leave a
Black horse on Wednesday by 6a h, and arrive at »
Harford the next Tuesday Vy 9 A m. a
PENNSYLVANIA, MARYLAND and VIR. <1
GlNt.i.
6. From Baltimore by BLickhorfe to Yorktown 1
Pa. once a week. c
Leave Baltia.ore every Friday b.y 4 p m, arrive
at Blackhorfe on Saturday by 10 a m, and arrive r
at Yorktown by 8 9M. Returning—LtaVc York- I
town every Thursday by 7a m, and arrive at Bal- 5
timore on Friday nfcton- I
7. From Yorktown by Hanover, Peteriburg, (
Taneyton and Fredericktown to Leefourg once a
week.
Leave Yorktown every Monday at 8 a m,arrive c
at Fredericktown on Tu<.fdayby 8 P u, andarrive | y
at Leelburg on Wednesday by 2P m. Returning
Leave Leelburg every Friday at noon, and arrive
at Yorktown by 6 p m on Sunday.
8. From Yorktown by Abbotftown,Gettifcurg, .
Fairfield, Eliiibethtown, Willianafpbrt, Martinft
btirg, Winchester, Stevenlburg and Strafburg to
Woodftock once a week.
Leave Yorktown every Sunday by noon, arrive n
at Martiufburg 011 Tuesday by II am. Leave t -
Martinfbnrg on Tuofday noon andarrive at Wood- 1
stock on Wednesday by 6p 11. Returning—Leave
Woodftock on Thursday by 6A m, arrive at Mar- w
tiniburg on Fiiday by 11 ah, andarrive at York- p
town on Sunday byllAM. 1
9. From Pittlburg by Cannonfburg, Walbing- o;
ton. Waft Liberty and Wheeling to the mouth of
Fithing creek once a week (contra# for one year It
only.) • ' ai
Leave Pittfburg every Friday at 9 a m, and ar
rive at Filhing creek oil Sunday at 9 a m . Return' a[
ing—Leave Filhing creek on Wednesday at 8A m, r|
and arrive at Pittfburg on Friday at 8 a m. j
10. From Wafftington by Brownsville nndUnian r j
to Morgantown once a week.
Leave Union every Friday at 6 am, and arrive .
at Walhington by 6f M. Leave Wafbington on J?
Saturday at 6a m, arrive at Morgantown on Sun- f"
day at 6P m. Leave Morgantown on Monday at
8 am, andarrive at Union by 3 p m.
11. From Baltimore by Fredericktown, Eliza- lr
bcthtown, Greencaftlc and Chamberfburg to Ship- M
penfburg once a week. *'
Leave Baltimore every Friday by II am, arrive L
at Fredericktown on Saturday by 10 au, at Eli- ri
zabethtown in the evening, and at Shippenfburg E
011 Monday by 7p m. Returning—Leave Shippenf- R
burg every Tuesday at 0 a m, arrive at Elizabeth
town at Bpm ,at Fredericktown on Wednesday tli
noon, and at Baltimore on Thursday by 5 r m.
MARYLAND. a,
11. From Elizabethtown by Hancock and Old- p.
town to Cumberland once a week . M
LeaveCumbetland every Saturday by 6 A M,and
arrive at ElizaUethtown on Monday by 8a m. t ;,
Returning—Leave Elizabethtown every Mond >y by
10 a m, and arrive at Cumberland on Tuesday by M
6 th. m
13. From Baltimore to Annapolis once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8 a m, and
arrive at Annapnlis by jp m. Returning—Leave _.
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8 a m, and arrive at
Baltimore by 8 p m. on
14. From Baltimore by Annapolis, Queen Anns,
Upper Marlborough,Pifcataway,P«rttobacco, 1- da
ltnsfrefli, Newport and Chaptico to Leonardtown ° n
once a week. i( J
Leave Baltimore every Friday at 10 am, arrive li'
at Annapolis at jpu. Leave Annnpolin on Sa- fej
turday at 6 am, arrive at Upper Marlborough
by noon, arrive atPifcataway by 6 p m. E. arrive at
Leonardtown every Monday forenoon by 90' dock. Ca
Returning —LeaveLeonardtown every Monday at 3 "•
pm, arrive at Pifcataway on Tuesday by 6p m wt
arrive at Upper Marlborough on Wednesday by
11 am, andarrive at Annapolis by 6 p m. Leave
Annapolis on Thursday by 7a m, and arriv; at (
Baltimore by 3 p m . '
15. From Annapolis by Lower Marlborough, ;
Huntington and Calvert court house to 9t. Leon-
afds once a week. j
Leave Annapoli-- every Saturday at 9 a m, and
arrive at St.' Leonards en Monday by 3p m. Re- lng
turning —Leave St. Leonards every Monday at 4 A
p m, and arrive at Annapolis the next Saturday by
6 am. 3
16. From Bladenfturg by Upper Marlborough, to 1
■» Nottingham, LoWcr \farlbor)Ugh, Acquafco,Bcn
r.s licl and Cha.-lottehill to CUaptico once a week
Leave Uladenfburg every Saturday at 9 a 11, ar
rive at Upper Marlborough by noon and at l.o.vir
Marlborough by 5 r m, and at Cbapticoby 6r«
''" Returning—.Leave Cfuprico ev:ry TmufJay at 6
.• e _ .1 m, and arrive at Biadenlburg on Saturday at 6
am.
17. from Georgetown by Montgomery court
houfc to Fr .-dericlitoWn once a ufedc.
Leave Geoh>wo vn every Friday by 6 a m, and
arrive at Fredericktown by 6 pm. Returning—
Leave Fredericktown every Thursday by Jam,
I " and arrive at Georgetown by 6 pm.
ed_ niZGINI.iI.
* 1 > iS. From Woodftock by Newmarket, Rocking
'° Ham court houfc, Staunton, Lexington and Fiucaf
'le to Big Lic« once a week.
ev " Leave Woodftock every Thursday by 6a m, ar
: rive at Staunton on Friday at Ir m. Leave Staun-
; ' tor. every Friday at 2p u, arrive a*. Big Lick 011
' vc Sundny by ji am. Returning—Leave Big Lick
a y on Sunday by 1p m, arrive ?.t Staunton every Tuef
c day by 11 am. Leave Stauntom by 12 o'clock
■"* (noon) and arrive at Woodllock on Wednesday by
5 PM.
v " 19. From Big I,ick by Montgom ry court houfc
M > and Wythe eourt house to Abingdon once a week.
>y- Leave Big Lick svery Sundav at Ip m, arrive
I at Wythe court house on Tuesday by 1 p m, and at
l J' Abingdon on Wednesday by 6r m Returning—
at Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6 am, arrive
a J at Wythe court house on Friday by Ipm, au 1 ar
rive at Lick on Sunday by 11 a m.
TENNESSEE.
20. From Abingdon, Vir. by Jonefborough
' Gjeenville, Moffat's (lore and Jefferfoa court houle
>n to K-.oxri!:- once a week.
| Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6a m, ar
'• rive at MoiFats ftorc on Saturday by 8 a m. Leave
Moffat, by 9 a m, and arrive at Knoxviile an Sun-
P" j day by 10 a m. Returning—Leave Knoxviile eve-
I ry Sunday by 2 P m, arrive at Moffats on Monday
in by 3 pm. Leave Moffats cn Monday at 4p m,
T »ud arrive at Abingdon on Wediulday by 7P m.
VIRGINIA.
at. From Winchester by Romney to Mooriields
once a week.
Leave Winchester every Thursday at 6 a u, and
arrive at M.)orficld ■♦n Friday by 6P M. Return
'* | ing—Leave Moorfield every Saturday at 8 a M,and
1 arrive at Winchester on Sunday by 6 P M.
j 11. From Alexandria by Centerville, Leefburg
y 1 and Shcpherdilown to Martinfburg unce a week.
Leave Alexandria every Wedmtfday at 9 a m,
j and arrive at Martinfburg on Friday by 10 4 m .
| Retu-ning—Leave Martinfburg every Friday by
: noon St. arrive at Alsxandria on Mondil/ by 7 a m.
23. From Frederickfbburg by Pert Royal, Lay
tons, Tappahannock, Urbanna and Gloucelter court
lC house to Yorktown once a week.
'* Leave Frederickfburg every Wsdnefday at 6 a
d m, arrive at Tappahannock on Thursday by it
"am. Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive at
Yorktown on Saturday by ham. Returning—
Leave Yorktown every Saturday at 1 PM, arrive
at Tappahannock the next Monday noon and arrive
- at Frederickfkurg on Tuesday by 5 PM.
14. From Tappahannock by Richmond court
- houfc, Weftmoreland court house, Kinfale, Farn
e ham church and Northumberland court house to
II Lancaster court house once a week'
Leave Tappahannock every Thursday noon and
y arrive at Lancaster court house on Saturday by j t
Y am. Returning—Leave Lancaster court house ev
il cry Saturday by 1 PM. and arrive it Tappahan
nock on Monday by 11 a m.
e »?. From Frederickfburg by Culpeper court
house to Charlotufville & Orange c. h. once a week.
1 Leave Frederickfburg every Tuesday at 10 a m,
: and arrive at Charlottefville on Thursday by 11 a
t m. Returning—Leave Charlottefville on Saturday
at 8 PM, and arrive at Frederickfburg on Tnef
- day by 6a m.
16. Fr»m Richmond by Goochland cou'rt
-1 house Columbia and Charlottefville to Staunton;
once a week.
: ' Leave 'Richmond every Tuesday at 1p M, ar
rive at Charlottefville on Thursday by n A H.
■ Leave Charlottefville by noon and arrive at
■ Staunton an Friday by 11 AM. Returning—
Leave Staunton on Saturday by 6 A m, arrive at
■ Charlottefville by 7 p M, and arrive at liich
-1 mond the next Tuesday by 9 A M.
27. Frum Staunton by Bath court-koufe and
| Sweet Springs to Greenbrier court-house once a
i week.
Leave Stiunton ever) Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Greenbrier court-house on Monday by
6 pm. Returning—Leave Greenbrier court
house every Monday by 9 AM, and arrive at
Staunton on Thursday by 8 P M.
28. From Charlottefvile by Warren, War
minfter, New-Market, Amherft court house,
Cabelifburg, and Maddifon to Lynchburg once
a week.
Leave Charlottefville every Thursday at I P
M. and arrive at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6
p M. Returning—Leave Lynehburg every
Tuesday by 6 A M, and arrive at Charlottefville
on Thursday by 10 A M.
29. From Richmond by Hanovertown, Ay
letts and Torfds to Tappahannock once a week
er if carried in stages as often avthey lhall run.
Leave Richmond every Wedncfday at 5 A M,
arrive at Todds at 3 p M, and at Tappahannock
on Thursday 11 11 A )i. Returning—Leave
Tappahannock on Monday it 1 P M, a.id ar
rive at Richmond-on Tuesday by 5 r M.
30. From Richmond by Hopkins'a, Powha
tan court house, Cumberland court house, Prince
Edward court house and Lynchburg to New-
London, once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A M, <
arrive at Prince Edward on Wednesday at 6 r I
M, and arrive at Lynchburg on Friday at 8A M, I
and at New-London by 10 AM. Returning— '
Leave New-London every Friday its r m, ar- c
rive at Lynchburg by 5 PM, arrive at Prince t
Edward on Saturday by 7 P M, and arrive at
Richmond on Monday by 4 P M.
31. From New-London by Liberty to Fincaf- <
tie once a week.
Leave New London every Friday at 1 p m, c
ind arrive at Fincaftle on Saturday by 6 r m.
Returning—Leave Fincaftle on Monday at 5 A '
M, ants arrive at New London on Tuesday poon. "
32. Froton Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar- 1
tinville once in two week«.
Leave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A f
M, and arrive at Martinville on Sunday by 6 P
M. Leave Martinville on Monday by 6 A M,
Ind arrive at Liberty on Tuesday by 6pm.- t ,
33. From Prince Edward court house by fl
Charlotte court honfe to Halifax court houle
once a \*eek. 3
Leave PrinceEdwardconrthoufeeveryThurf- a
day at 6A M, and arrive at Halifax court honfe 0
on Friday at 10 AM. Returning—Leave Mai- '
ifax court house on Friday by 2 PM, and ar- (l
rive at Prince Edward court houft on Saturday
by 6 P M. I
VIRGINIA axJXOR TH-CAROLIN.I.
34. From Halifax rourt-houfe by Halifax old town, V
Carters, Martinvillc, Patrick court-house, Upper Sau- C
ra, Geimantown and Bcihania to Salem once is two L
weeks. a!
Leave Halifax court-house every other Friday at
a, PM, and arrive at Salem the next Monday bv 6, L
PM. Rcturnfng—Leave Salem every other Tuesday a;
at 6, A M, and aarive at yalifax court-house on Fri- d
day by 10, AM. B
35. Ftom Harris's by Hicket'sford to Halifax twice
a week.
Leave Harris's every Wednesday and Saturday by
j, A M. and arrive at Halifax by 6, P M. Return- °J
ing—leave Halifax every Thursday and Sunday by 6, p'
A M, and arrive at Hairis's bv 7, P. M. h
VIRGINIA.
36. From Smithfield by Southampton court-house
to dicky's fotd once a week. '■<
n* Lilve Hidksts ford every other FriJiy b\ 2, P M,
!c and arrive at Sm'thfield on Saluvdav by 5, I'M.—
r- Re^urninrf—l,-aveSm;tlifie:d
r 5, AM, and arrive at Hicks's ford on Monday by
a, P M.
6 37. FromGaldfons by 8-elbridge, St. Tammany's,
6 MecklenVierg and Luier.burg courtrhaufcj aad hl
mund« llore to Gj!dfon*s ncca wcA,
rt f-ejveGaldlon'severy VVeJneldavat 10, \ M, and
rerurn the next Sa'urday by a, P M, waiting at each
j Pali-Office 2 hours after delivery of ihenni .
nuarxrA & NOHTH-C JKOLLX j.
i 38. From Suss >lkby Edenton, Plymouth and Wa
-3 fhington to Pfewbern, once a week Leave SufF-ilk
every \lonn?y at arrive at Edenton on Tuef
r dav at t, PM, at Plymon'h 011 Wdnefday by 6.
A M, at Walhington byo, P M, and at Newbern on
Thursday by 5, ¥ M. ReiuVumg—Leave Newberd
every Friday by 6, A M, arrive at Washington by
r " 5, PM. Arrive at Plymouth on Saturday fey 4
1_ PM, at Edenton on Sunday by g, A M, andarSuf
m folk on Monday by 9, A M.
k NORTH CAROLINA.
f- 39. From P-dcntonby Hirrtford, Nixonton, Eliza
k beih cityj and jonelburg to, Indian-town, once a
y we-k.
Leave Edenton every Wednesday bv 1, A M, and
f c arrive at Indian-town on Thu fday by 6, PM. Re
turning—Leave Indiatitown every Tuesday by 5, A M,
r e and arrive at fcdenton on Wedncfdayat 11, AM.
lt 40 from Halifax by Northampton cjurt-houfe,
_ Princeton, Murfreefb Jrough, Wintoid and Windsor
to Edenton, once a week.
Leave rtdlifa* every Monday at 9, AM, and arrive
at Edenton on Weanefdav by 3, P M, leave Eden
ton on Wediicfd-iy bv 6, P M, and arrive at Halifax
on vSatur ayl)v 11, A M
1 41. fiom Halifax by Scotland. Hogton, Williamf
c ton and Daily's to Plymouth, once a week. Leave
Halifax every Monday at i«, A M, and arrive at Ply
mouih on Weanefdav by 10, A M. Returning—
£ Leave Piymoath on Wednesday at a, PM, and ar
rive at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M.
42. From Halifax by Taiboro' and Greenville to
f Walliinajtononee a week
j Leave Halifax every Monday A M, and ar
riveat Walhington on Wednesday 10 AM. Re
turning—Leave Wafliingron every Wednesday at a,
P M, and arrive at Haiitax on Friday at 10, A M.
43. From Halifax by Warrenton, Williamfoorough,
. Oxtord, HillO>orough, Martinville, Saiem, Lexing
ton, Salisbury and Sratefville to Charlotte and from
! Charlotte by Cabarras court-house to Salisbury, and
1 from thence by the L-.oe route to Halifax, once a
week.
C Leave Halifax every Monday at 9. A M, arrive at
Warfe»tti>n by 7, P arrive at Hilllborough on
, Wednesday at 4, PM, at Salem on Friday by 5,
. PM, at SaTi(bury on Sa urday at 4, PM, and at
f Charlotte on Monday by 6, AM. Returning—leave
. Charlotte on Mondial 10, A M, arrive at Salisbury
on Tuesday by 10, AM, arrive at SaUm ( on Wed—
t nefday at 9, A M, at HilUborough on Friday by 9,
A M, at Warrcntoo on Saturday at 7, P M, and at
Halifax «n Monday at 6, A M ,
44. From Hil!(b>rough by Moi*it Tirzih, Person
court-houre, Leafburg, Cafwell court-h«ule and Roc
kinoham court-house to Germantown once in two
weexa.
Leave Hiiifborougb every other Thursday at 6, A M,
and arrive at Germantown on Saturday at 4, P. M.
Leave Germantown every »ther Sunday at 6, A, M,
and arrive at Hiiifborougb on Tuesday at 4, P M.
45. From Salem by fieihania, Hun<fv»lle, Roch
ford, Wilkes, Morganton and Rutherfordton to Spar
tanburg in S. C. once in two weeks.
Leave Salem evciy other Saturday at 5 a m, and ar
rive at Spartanbarg on Wednesday at 5 pm. Leave
Spartanburg every other Thursday at 7 a m, and ar
rive'at Salem the next Mondiy at 6 rm.
46. From Louilburg by Nafh court-house to' Tar
borough oncc^week.
Leave Taiborough every Friday by 6 a m, and ar
riveat Louifburg by 6r m. Returning—Leave Louif
burg every Saturday by 6 a m, and arrive at Tarbo
rough by' 6 r m.
47. From Raleigh by Smith Held, Waynefbor ugh
and Kinprtton to Newbern, once in two weeks.
Leave Rileigh every other Tuesday by 8 a m, and
arrive at NcWbern the next Friday by 10 a m.
Returning—Leave Newbern every other Friday by a
p m. and arrive at Raleigh on Monday by 6 r m.
48. From Raleigh by Chapel hill to Hillfborough,
and from Hillfl>otough by Chapel hill and Chatham
court-hoiife to Raleigh, once a week. To wait two
hours at Chatham court-house.
Leave Raleigh every Tuesday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at Hillfborough by 6 p m. Returning—Leave
Hillfborough every Wednesday by 8 a m, and arrive
at Raleigh 00 Thursday by 10 a >«.
49. From Fayetteville by Elizabeth town, Bcllefort
and Springfield to Wilmington, and frojn Wilming
ton by S. Washington, Saredo and Sampson «ourt
houfc to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Tuesday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Wilmington on Thursday at 10 a. m. Re
turning —Leave Wilmington every Thursday 14PM,
and arrive at Fayetteville on Sunday by 5 p m.
50. From Fayetteville by Alfordion and Randolph
court-house to Salisbury, and from Salisbury by Mont
gomery court-house, Anfon court-house and Rich
mond court-house to Fayetteville, one® a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Salisbury on Tuesday by 9a m, Leave Sa
lisbury every Tuesday noon and arrive at Fayetteville
on Friday by 6 p m
From Newbern by Trenton and Richland to
Wilmington once a week.
Leave Newbern every Friday at io a m, and arrive
at Wilmington on Sunday by 6 p. m. Leave Wil
mington every Tuesday at ao am, and arrive at New
beru on Thursday by 6 r m.
SOUTH iSt NORTH CAROLINA.
sa. Front Camden by Lancaster ceurt-boufe, Char
lotte and Ltneoloton to Statefville, once in two
weeks.
Leave CamdeO'cvery other Monday at 6 a m, ar
rive at Statefville on Thursday by 6 r m Leaye *mtel
ville every other' Friday by 1 r m, and arrive ft Cam
den on Monday by 6 r n.
SOUTH-CAROLINA,
53. From Columbia by Winnfborpugh, Chester
couu-houfe, Pinckneyville, Aetna furnace, Spartan
burg and Greenville cuuit-houfe to Pickcnfville, and
from Pickenfville by Laurens court-houle and New
bury court house to Columbia, once a week : waiting ;
one hour at each pofl-ofßcc on the route.
Leave Columbia every Monday at 9 a m, arrive 3t
Spartanburg every Wednesday by 3 p m, arrive at
Pickenfville on Thursday at 4 p m, arrive at Laurens
court-house on Friday at 4 p m, and at Columbia on
Sundav by 6 p m.
54. From Columbia by Oiangeburg to Charleston,
once a week.
Leave Columbia every Monday at 10 a m. and ar
rive at Charleston on Thursday at io am. Returning 1
—Leave Charlelton every Thursday at m, and ar
rive at Columbia on Sunday at noon.
SOUTH-CAROLINA iff GEORGIA. j
55. From Edgefield court-house by Cambtidge,
Abbeville court-house, Pendleton court-house, Hat
tonsford, Franklin court-rioufe, E bcrton a»d Peterl- 1
burg to Washington, and from Washington byPP- t
terfburg and Cainbri4ge to Edgefield court-house, [
once a week.
Leave Edgefield court-house every Friday by 8a m f
arrive at Puidleton court-house on Sunday by 9 AM, v
arrive at Franklin couti-laoufe by 7 p m, at Petersburg
on Tuesday hy 10 am, and at Washington by 5 p *
m. Leave Washington every Wednesday at 6 a m,
at Camb idge on Thursday by »0 am, and at Edge*- {
field court-houfc by 7 p m.
From Augufla by Washington, Gresnfburg and {
Lexington ta once a we k. 1
Leave Augtifia evciv Monday at 3 p-m, arrive at t
Washington on Tuelday by 5 r m, and Arrive at f
Georgetown on Thurfdav by 7p m. Returning— \
Leave Geotgetown every Friday at 6a m, and arrive t
at Augufla by noon on Monday. X
57. From Gardens Corner to Beaufort once a week, fc
Leave Beaufort every Thursday at a p m, and arrive
at Gaidens Corner by 8p m. Returning—Leave Gar. t
dens Corner every Thurfjday at 5 a m, and arrive at
Beaufort by 10 a. m.
Note I. The Pofl Mafier General may alter the times E
of a frivol and departure at any time daring the continuance o
of tbe contrary be previously f.ipulating an adequate com- n
penfition for any ex tru expense that may be occaftoned there
by,
N,te 2. Half an hour fball be allmved fur opening h
and closing tbe Mail at all offices where no particular time C
is fpccifed. %
J . Note 3. For every hoio*s delay (unavoidable accideiJ
~ j excepted) in arriving a'jter tkt tints preferred in any con
,y i tra% the Contractor faall Jor jeit one dollar, and if the de
lay continue until the departure of any \dc. bending Mail,
whereby the Mails defined for fveh depending Mail, lose
\1 a tr ip> an additional forfeiture of Jive dollars /hall he
incurred•
Note 4 Nexvfpaptrs as wellas Let'ersare to be sent
in tlo Mails ; and if any per fun making propofils dfires
to carry ne~vfpapers uthar than tbofe conveyed in the mail,
for bis on>n emJumeni, bajmufl Jlate in his propofils for
xvbat sum be ivill carry iVnvith that emolument and for
k nvhnt sum -without that emolument.
(■_ Note 5. Should any pur fat m<ihing propofils deft re an
3 alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe
cificd, be muff Oat e in bis propofils the alterations dt fired,
d an I the difference lb;y ivill make in the terms of bit cm
>y trail.
4 Mate 6. Pet-font making proptfais art dejtred to fate
F- their prices in gross by tbe year» and not by tbe mile. \
'Tbofe ivbo contrail xvili receive thar pay fUarfcrly, in
the months of , April, faly and Oils her, in
I- drafts on tbe poji offices nn tbe .route and in bank notes.
a Note 7 Tbe contracts are to be in operation on tbe f.rft
day *f April next, and continue for four years, until
d tbe 3 \fl day of March inclufve, in tin year 1802.
1, JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Po/l-MaJler General.
" Gsniral Post OrriCE, ">
Philadelphia, December 18, I 7971 j"
e tuth&stfliftj
x New Ail'embly Room,
•South Fourth {lreot, between Chelnut and Walnut
rtreet9,
! Mr, FRANCIS,
OF THE NEW-THEATRE,
RESPECTFULLY informs his scholars and the
public in general, that his Academy for Dane
d ing will commence, for the i'eafon, on Thursday,
December 11, at the above
ELEGANT ROOM ;
When he hopes to receive the continuance of their
' accullomed patronage, which it will be his unre
mitting endeavor to deserve.
' The days of teaching for hi* young pupils are
t Tharfdays and Saturdays, from 3 o'clock in the
j afternoon till 6, and from 6 till y, for those of a
a more advanced age.
As an accommodation to those living in this vi
t tinage, Mr Francis intends to inftrudt a small
1 patty of children on Wednesday and Friday after
, noons, at his house.
t Di(tin& from ths Pr?.stiGng Balls, Francis
• will have four private felefl Suhfcription Sails.
' Private-teaching, either at the Academy, or his
" house.
' Mr. Francis's firft Praififing Ball will be on
1 Tuesday, 19th Dec. at the New AiTembly Rcoirf.
1 Ladies and Gentlemen's tickets to be had, by
applying to Mr. F.,as usual.
} For further particulars, enquire of Mr. F. No.
70, north Eighth llreet. Dec. II —mwftf
Imported in the brig Eliza,
) Capt. Hastie,from Bourdeaux ;
Claret in Cases of a very superior quality,
White Sauterne Wine in Cases,
Olive Oil in baltets of 12 bottles each,
White and coloured Kid Gloves,
do. do. Silk do.
A few pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy,
For Sale by
JAMES L ATIMER, jun.
71, South Wharv«s.
Who has also for Sale,
A few qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine.
Dec. ;. djw
For Sale by the Subscriber,
10 bales ColTas
40 do. Baftas
11 do. Mamoody
17 do. Chintz
7 do. Tookery
1 a do. Gorahs
15 do. Msragungees
3 do. Check Stripes
I do. Guzzie
I box Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
25 pipes fined particular Madeira Wine, of
the vintage 1795.
MORDECAI LEWIS.
December 5. 3aw+w
Thomas Randall,
PRESENTS his refpe&s to and the
Public in general, informs them that he hasopened
an Office, at his house, No. 88, Spruce drew, for
the purpose of tranfa&ing buGnefs in the fine of
Commiilion and Agency, colle&ing rents and out
(landing claims in any part of the United States.—
He flatters himfcf, that from his long refid<*ice in
this country and a general knowledge of it, hisfer
cices will be found worthy the notice of those who
may please to confide to him the maqagement of
any of their concerns.
N- B. Security given where required,
nth mo 14 3tawtf
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lattery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwelling-Aoufe ao,ooo dollars,
& calh 30,000, are 50.00o 1
1 ditto 15,000 & ci(h »5;00.e 40,0015
1 ditto 15,000 & rash 15,000 30,060
1 ditto 10,000 & ca(b to,ooo »0,000
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
1 ditto .5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
1 cash prize of io,uoo
3 do. 5,000 each, are_ • 10,000.
10 dc. 1,000 - - io,oot
10 do. 500 - - 10,000 ,
00 do. 100 - - io^ooo
no do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. a? - - 10,0011
1,000 do. ao • ao,ooo
15,00© do. 10 - 150,000
i6,%39 Prizes.
Jj,a6l Rlanlta.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,00 a
N. B. To favour those wh® may take a quan
tity of Tickets,th: prize of 40,000 doljars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but oni :
And approved n )tcs, securing payment in either 1
monsy or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will
be received for any number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets. t
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen ©f :
tfieprivate buildings to be ertAed in the City »f '
Walhington—Two beautiful designs arc already <
(elsiled fpr the entire front; on two of the public 1
iquares; from tkefi; drawings it is propofcd to eredl <
twocentreaud r our corner buildings,as loon as pof. 1
fible after this lottery isiold, and to convey them, 1
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ir ]
the manner defcrihed in the fchemc for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will 1
be made to defray the lieceffary expenses of print- i
mg, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of I
the fund intended for die National Umveruty, to
be ere&ed within the city of Washington. t
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the [
Prizes, are held by the President and two Dirrd.- c
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at t
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEI. BLODGET. •
»§„ Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colsm- '
his; of Jame3 Well & Co. Baltimore; of Feter '
Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ; 1
>nd of Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry. mwf
A farm for sale,
" TN Ambay in the state of New-Jcrfsj',
; A of four hundred awes, including a proper
proportion of meadow, of arable and wood
land, and fait marftr V There is on the premises,
( a good apple orchard, and a variety of other
t fruit trees, it is well watered with fprirgs and
j brodks, it is bounded on two fides with navi
- gable waters and has a good mill site, its fitua
. tion is healthy and pleasant, commanding a
view of the navigation of Perth Amboy and its
, environs, and convenient to the fineft fi(h and
. oysters in their proper season, it abounds with
, natural manure frem which, with the advanta
• gesof the fait marfhby applying the hay there
from to the keeping of flock, may at a small
expense, be enriched to a great degree and ren
• dered one of the firft grazing farms in the state ;
it is well calculated for a farmer or a gentle
man's feat, having several eligible sites for
building. This farm will be fold together or
r divided, as may suit a purcbafer, at private
taie., or if not fold, willbefet up at public auc
tion on Tuesday the nineteenth day of Decem
ber next, at the hoiife of Robert Rattoone, inn
keeper in Perth Amboy, at eleven o'clock in
the forenoon. Any person inclining topurchafe
may view the premises ' by application to John
or Matthias Halfted at Perth Amboyj from
whom or from the Hon. Jonathan Dayton, Esq.
speaker of the house of reprefrntjtives of the
United States now in Philadelphia, from Mat
thias William/on, jun. efq. or Mr. Samuel Smith
at Elizabeth-Town further information may be
obtained, — and who are pofiefled of maps of
the fame.
Perth'Amboy, Nov. 16, 1797.
_____ 25 —eodtißD
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, proposing to contrast hu bufi
neffl, offers this Estate tor sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blafl and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two paii of (tones i also a good Forge, all
in perfect repair, as aie all the Water Works conne£l
ed with these various tranches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built for the purpose of calling Canttoq,
for this State.—There are abou'. Mo thousand acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Palture. The Cannon lately manufactured there,
_ fully proves the excellency of the metal, wiiich is
"luperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any in .the world ; for not one of sixty-nine guns
lately made, although some of the 24 were bored
into 31 pounders, have Failed on proving. The fix
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufacture, and a place of arms lying in the state
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land •
iugs on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can refuk from a plenty of water ilfuing
from a large natural pond, very near (he Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed wiih all the ltoek and utensils, and have poffeflion
onqf before the firft of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean time for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every pan will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, Sec. See. For
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Reprefentativet
in Congrcfc lor this State ; Mr, David Waterman, on
the premises, or to the proprietor in New-York. «
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. i . 3awtf
House and Lots, in Berdentown.
TO BE,SOLD, a handsome two story House.
with the Lot on which it is ere&ed, situated
about the middle 6f the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The hotife is fotty two
feet front, and in neat order. The lot contains
one acre, and is one hundred feet on the main
Itreet, and extends with the fame breadth tubatk
street. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly fon#
acres, fjjDaratcd from the former by back street.
One third only of the purchase aidney will be re
quired upon executing a deed, and for the re
majnd<ir t such credit will be given as the purchase
er may chufe. This property will be fold free •-
all incumbrances, and an indifputabl«.*itle givettf
For further particulate enquire cither of IV.
William Burnes, refidiuß in Bordcntown, near,
the premises, who will (hew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, no. 144, Market-Greet.
December 2. jawtf
Real Estate for Sale,
PLANTATION, in a healthy and good si-
L X tuation on Chester Creek, in Middlet»n
Townlhtp, Delaware County, containing 119*
acres, upwards of 50 acres of which are wood
land, well timbered ; the remainder plough land
and watered meadow—of the latter, many more
acres can be made at a small expence. There are
on laid premises, a good orchard of grafted
fruit, a Douse, with a spring near the door, a frame
barn with flabling under, and a log tenement on
one part of said place.—Any person inclining
to purchase, may view the premises by applying
to Wm. Pennbll, on said farm, and know the
terms hy applying to Jonathan Pennell, in the
borough of CLefter.
November if. 3t eed
To be fold,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat,two
story brie]? House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irish tra«ft lane, in the
township of about one mile from
the city ps Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for taste and
elegance, ftaud unrivalled.
December t dtf
All Perions who are indebted to
the estate of William Hevsham, fen ol Phila
delphia, deceased, are requeued to mak« fpecdy
payment; and those who have any demands a
gainst said estate, will plcafeto present them, pro
perly attcfted, to the fubferibers.
William Heyfham, "J
Robert Heyfiam. v Executors.
Francis Boiues Stay re, J
november 6. 2aw4W
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editions*
H. & P. RICE, Bookfdlers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the hte arrivals from
London and Dublin, their spring importar
tion, confilling of a variety of the lateil and mod
approved Law Books, which,added to those
dy 011 hand, forms the moftextenfive colledioneVT
cr offered for sale in this couHtry. They therefore
beg leaveto notice, that Irom the nature of their
connc&icnsin Dublin, they are enabled to lelllrifh
editions (as they have hitherto dore) at thevny
lowed prices. Ihe following are among the iatell
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs P-cports in Chancery, a * v lt.
Peake's Cases at Nili Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord Ha-rdwicks ; Floyer's Procters
practice in the Ecclefuftical Courts; Barton's
Trcatife on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's Practice of
the Court jjf King's Bench in Personal A&ions, a
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on ,Uses ; modern Reports, 11 vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rice cxpe<sl t» receive by the firH ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, the id part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence hy Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 26.