©ajrtte D ( rn - Philadelphia Dotty Advertiser.
N'JM3SR I 554. ~i
SALES BY AUCTION.
4
Stated Sales
For D R r GOODS.
r Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. 56,
Monda } \ , r ° uth From-ftreet,
J Afterncon --Foom.an * Cu. No. 65
v. Senth Front-street.
f' Forenoon— John Connelly, Old City
Titefaay J AU'Siqn, Nrt. 73 four'n Front-street.
) Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
V. 183 High-street.
f.'eduefdai J A'terncon—Peter ,3enfon, No. 74
1 fotit'h Tiiird-ftroet.
Thurfdny J Fr ""enoon—Edward Fox.
J ( Afternoon—John Connelly. >
Friday I Forenoon— Will,ana Shannon.
5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Affrernoon—Peter Retvfon.
United States, 7 "
Pennfylvama Diftrift. j JJ'
TN ptirfuance of a writ to me direded from the
X honorable Richard Peter., Esq. of the
t> r , thc Uniteil Stat es in and for the
Pennfylvama Di6tri<ft, will be espefed to Public
&alc, at the Merchants'Coffee-houfe, in the city of
Philadelphia, on Mosdjv, the eleventh day of
September next, at 12 o'clock at noon,
jSIcJL The Brigantinc, called lh*
s{§§&[ MARIA,
Angular the tackle, ap-
P*T'.'l and furniture as they now are ;
the laid Brigantine having been condemned to pay
Mariners wag?i, &c.
Wm. NICHOLS, Marjhat.
Marfhal'* Office, ">
August jo, 1797.)
N - 5. Tue Inventory may be fcen It my Office
White Havanna Sftgar.
I 4&1 hotfs > of very fuperiorquality no*- .iiTcharg
7_f I: Ms. f i:ig from the (hip Hamburgh Packet,
Street wharf—and forfale by'
Philip Nicklin & Co.
N. B. J
' 1
THt SHIP
Hamburg Packet,
Silas Swain, Master, c
Saie, or Charter.
Aug. 24. cots 1
COMMISSIONERS' SALES, '
•TPH£ C»mmiflioners of the counties of Ly
-1- coining jnd Northumberland, have given r
lOtipe thfit they intend t.Q proceed to the file of
inds, far the arrearage of taxes, on the 7th of P
\'tptember next.
£? The different printers in this city will v
erider an eflTential service to a great number of j,
idividuals hy publishing this notice. ,1
Aug. 18. V a
FOR SALE, ~ *
BRETAGNES In cases
German Checksin do. '
Cambrick S|
Plattdlas 1 £
Oznabrigs
Gold and filverWatehea 'J
Window CSlafa io by 8
GJeis TiimM r.'in cases
tinfeed Oil in cnflcs, ice. Ac. ™
George Pennock,
_ , 103, High-StreH. w
J" ? r -<• . 3 ,w w
NOTTCT wi
IF rHEPt O'Hara, who some years (incekept
Schoel at the Nine Bridges, Queen's County, Eas
tern Shore, Maryland, be living, hew hereby re- Jr
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. Ambrose
JVtai&al, sear Warwick, Cecil County, Kartern
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will receive iu
terefring information. .
August 4. mw3tf4w p|
THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSXCNIES OF JAMIS ORfiINLEAF, t\ C
HEKEBY give notice, that thev have disposed cii
of the property assigned to them for the securing Xi
the payment of tie note', acceptances, and en- Oi
dotfements given by Edward Fox, for the uft \V'
ofthefiaid James Greenleaf; and the holders of s>;
such notes, and endorsements, are g ri
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will Ur
with them for the amount of their refpeflive Ha
•laims, both principal and interest, at hi.
any time before the 20th day of o<slober next;
after which dav, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to tfif terms of assign- .1
ment. ±
Applications to be made at fonth-eafl corner
•f Dock and Second streets (the Dock-street In t
fide), lietween the hours of eleven and one o'
•Wck every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tho. IV. Frantis,
John Miller, J un. j
1 John Ajhley,
Jacob Baier.
Philadelphia, Augmft 18, 1797. d
At a Meeting of the Board of
Property, June 6, 1797,
Freftnt John Hall, Se«'ry.
Francis John/lon, R. G. Voflandeffice
Dan. Brodhead, S. G-j
Nicholas Bettinger,
■versus > .
Samuel Csnpinfham. j .
In this cafe the proof of service of notice be
ing infuffident, It isordered that notice begiv
<n in one of the Philadelphia and York newfpa
peri weekly, for at least eight weeks to'the J'
heirs or assignees of Samnuel Cunningham de
ceased, to atttend the hoard'on the firft Monday A ,
m November next, to (hew caule why a patent
flaould not ifHie to Nicholas Bettinger for the
land in question.
(A true Copr.)
JOHN HALL,
Secretary of the Land Office. A
A "g- IT- *lawßw. 2
The Inhabitants of the Diftridt
of Southwark,
RF- informed that a Coachee'is provided, to h«
j. i. kept nt the Constables' office, the north east
«®rner of Fronn and Almond streets, where the
friends of those ficlc persons who desire to be rr
tßo\cd to ibs City Hpipital, are requested to make 1
application—Also, a Hcarfe will be kept in readi
nefa for the removal of the dead. or
JONATHAN PENROSE. - Cx
N. B.— The Fror, who will to remove to the
Tent, on Schuy'kill, may befurnlfted with Brderi
ly applying 2* above. 2?
PHILADELPHIA.-
To be SOLD or RENTED,
A ' ROE 3 Story Brick Honfe, on the
'i- T J K,f l ' ie 0t Filbfrtft feet. -eet. between
i-iglith and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
veyor General's Office.
. 56, 1 lie Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet de«p,
the lot 1 to fee* deep, with the privilr.-e of a line
0.65 rect wid_- Alley ext-ndiag the who!? Jenffth of
the lot, a thirty lett wide Court for Catridets
City to turn in. The House is not ;-laftered, and
eet. may be turned either intA opt-,.0r two «lwcl!in<-
No. Houses. It is fuifnble for a large Minufjflory,
° r would make a good Tavern. Immediate
o. 74 poJleluon will be given.
Apply to No. in, Chefnut-Strcet.
_ cod 4 t.
to be sold vert cheap i
A Light W a GGGN almost new, with a frame—
and a pair of harness (Engliili collars) his never
- been used—price 90 Dolls.
A Horse 16 hands liigh, seven years old. — and a
new chair, with aialling top and harnclV— 320.
Enquire No. 351, Market-street.
thc Augufl 14. t j IW
üblic i his Day Published,
ry of AnJtobe fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
y of Record and Chefnut streets,
Prite of a Dollar,
Observations on lerta'm Documents
in No. V :ind VI of
" The History of the United States for
J*c~. the year 1796,"
nav' I" which.th" CH - m.r. of specucatiom aeainft
r y ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late SscaiT hy of the Trlasok, is FULLY
REFUTED.
ir RIT TE H Br IT /USS IF.
si ce r Tllis publication prefenu a concise ftatemem
- the bafp means praflifgd by th« Jacobiu»of tl«
Unirejd btate« ;o .asperse the cliat'i■ lers ot thol > '
,rfwrrons who are conlidered a< hoßiie to their difor
ket, ganizing fchebies. It also contains the eor
refpondenco between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs.
Monroe, Muhlcnburgh and Ventb'e, on the sub- !
jefi of the documents and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and hjs wife to Mr Ha
milton, proving beyond the possibility of a dcufct, !
, that thc connexion between him and Reynolds, '
was the result of a daring conspiracy on the part J
of the latter and-his alTociates to extort money.
A djlCount of one third from the retail prtc?
P will be made in favor of wholefaie nurchafcrs", for
- eASH. Orders to be ta Mr Yo»mo.
, Aucryjt 15.
; y n " Ihe Norfolk Mail STAGE.
of Stage start. from the GEORQE T t vcrn, ei
of u at eorner of Second and Arch Streets, in »i
Philadelphia, rvity -Tut/Jay, Tturfday, and Satur- "
•ill at b elock, in the 11 orning ; arrives at 00-1
1- vcr f be Brftday, at Snowhill .the second day, at
Northampton Court Hoafe the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the paflengcrs find
_ a file and comfortable packet to convey than to fc
Norfolk. ,
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton feiry,
every Tuefrfiy. Thurfiay and SatOrday, and the !
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every -
Monday, Wcdneftjay and Friday j'puts up at Snpw /.
Hill tjie firft night, at Dover the ad night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day. r "
The.difcnncr on this rout/-, between.Philadelphia !
and Norfolk, js to miles lefa than on any stage route c '
between thpfe places ' "
I'oo much cannot be said in favor of the re»d, pi
which is most eicellent indeed. The proprietors w
w llingly engage to return the whole fart to any w
- r a " t '»ger, who, after having pesforaied this route, da
will lay that hi ever travelled ina stage for the fame o'
it distance, so good a road iji America. va
r- August ii, dini.entf. <. O
- Imparted in the lateit arrivals from m
Amftcrdam and Hamburg, and forfale by
1- B. £ff J. BOHLEN,
A large■ ajfortment of fine French Cambrics, ~
KufTia iud Dutch fail cloth
B'ittannias Writing, post, and print- T
Roujnes jng pap er V
brown Holland Dutch calf flcij* ha
Checks and liripes Prime madder firi
i Ticklenburgi Shell'd Barley the
Oznahurgs Looking me
e Whitefheetings Hollow glajs ware car
' diaper Slates
e Brown rolls Coffee mill*
e Umbrellas Brass kettles
* Hair ribbons Scythes aijd straw knives T'
Black and whitelaces Toys alTorted Id boxes
Best Holland Gin in pipes An
London particular Madeira Wine nvi
•July »4- m&thtf _J
I MP CRT ED
' In the ship America, James Ewirr, master, frcm
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands En
White Piatillas
Ticklenbnrgs A si
Coarfc Linens f<
I'apcs Sup
Looking Glafies 7 An
Glafi Tumblers $ in " so '
< rOR SALE BV A f
George Pennock. _I
Afjvft 14. 3aw
Young Hyson 1 ea. of:
40 chefls of a fuperjor quality—Also,
100 do. of Hvfon, 3
Imported in the !Ytadnp Sims, and for sale by S'or
the fubferibers, corner of Second and Pine ""e
street.
C. Haight. pi
June 41. eotf ~
Imported in (be/hipPigou, nY .
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-street,
Hyson ") £/
Hyson Skin (
Young Hyson r 1 EAS
Imperial J
April 20. eotf
Chocolate and iVluftard 01
ManufaQured as usual,
Ginger and feppcr ground * t l le I
Shelled or Pearl Barley clalfi
Bhiladelphja Porter, Befr, Ale and Cyder " ndcl
London Porter ' Note
Taunton and Button Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by the pipe, (juarter-cafk o-- gallon—liiiuble L L
for exportation or h&mc consumption—
— £xr Sale by
Jsbn Hawsrtij.
No. PS f*uth Front street Fel
By John Fenno, N°- ii 9 Cbejnut Street.
5 Mrs, GRAT TA N
i the . her friendv in.l the public in general,
:w«en . '" r ' <M f r < , . i N'o. 19*, M.irk«t-ftreet, will con--
. 2ur- urrue °P e n during the (iehnnfs.
Board ami. Lodging in * separate room, ten
de«p, B0 " AR '- double room, eicut doilaks.
n,i '- e h^, t r ™ nv "'":''' c; n! t! ' .-T- n 'l*m«n who
t)l of _ „ ~- 'r "• •-'« ;n "*O. Mrv (S r,vT ix
, r f CL,lW Kcnll'«i'n to d.'wt at h ~.f a oollap.'
a '.".'11 A".r.?P —ftt
riling T 9 £SO LD,
■iory, And pojfejficn given immediately,
diate A ciyo story brick Houf«,handfomely
L , X """fedin Princeton. There are four rooms
et- and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret a range of hack building <1 feet in
TT " St , ' » nd ! l P ,a2 «of j 7 feet. There isa rump
' f" s i " y T s a l " c<i!lcut ki,chen «th„
pc ~ au Cr " ° r v ' hlch are a carriage house and two
ever fidfa, one of which is new, 44 feet long, With
flails in the two ftab'es for 17 horfeii. The fieal
nd a thihefs and pVfantnef. of fituarion, and the
number of genteel and agreeable families in and
reet. near the town, render it a durable retrceat for a
fr ° C ' ,he ci 'y- Th " co "»mod» U fner t of
!u nu, C , Cnt,al Potion, and the largeoefs of
.r r Sf.W™# ir ev = r y Suitable for a tavern. Tor
° f J'""; 11 5 ha ' llwa T s been considered as a capital
lt».!d. Inquire on 'helpremjfes. of
ISAAC SNOWDEN, iv».
Pfnecton, Arg. 2 j 29-dtwaawtf
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and i
tor CONSUMPTIONS.
Jud received, by Wm. Griffiths, No. 177, South
Setond-ftreet, a frelh supply of
Genuine Uai/ain of Honey,
A Medicin* invented by the late Sir John Hill
ienx ~ ' ' tnow ' a Botanist procured him
the e ?SP c "*f' on ol the Linn*usof Britain) and ii
off * or »acred in England as r,re for the abov:
"or- t*; it is also , ". s iiiar dHcacy ia the
or- Cougfc,
rrs. , Itni3 y»l r »be had retail of W.A.Stokes, No.
ub- °. Second ftre«, and T. Snrr, 55, n cw . '
let- ' hottles at 75 cents each. j
ia- c P«'"IT«S having obferyed the happy ef- (
<>r, the mpdicine, (fcveral cafesof cures hav- *
ds, com? within his nwii knowledge) »nd the great f
art f° r it has induced him to order a large
PP T> a Part of which he bfi jjft received. ,
ice dugijl j. law j w t
for r
A Cook wanted. }.
A who underfland.i the bufioeft lad
rn f | «n bring pood recommendations, may find employ
iq and receive generous wages by applying at No. 67.
ir- north
o- 'Aiy.ft ' «g t
on Wanted tp purchase,
nd A pair of (lout, well broke Horses, young and
to found. Enquire at Mr. OeUers' Hotel, Chefnut
ftreet.l
y, Application must be made immediately.
ic j dupuj} ia »w
ry ! *
rd f
r HE Stockholders in this company are here-
U ! vT • Y c tilat » to the fifth
tc f xt Charter, and at the request of a
Nutnbcr of Stockholders, v?ho, together» are
d, proprietors of Six Thousand Shares, and up
r' W, m?' , a S eneral mcetibg of the Stockholders
y will be held at the Company's Office, on Mon
e, day the 15th day of September n<-xt, at 11
ie o clock, a.m. for the purpose of filling up a
vacancy in their Direction ; *nd taking into
conurleration such Regnlatiom or Bye Lawa as
1 m sy beprefent#,! in conformity with the Char
ter o( Incorporaliop. n
EBEN. HAZARD, ScSry.
July io. w&ftSt; do
h The Partner<Tiip,
- T JNDER the firm of FREEMAN Company,
\J is diflolved by mutual consent. All perfon.s
having any demands againfi tkefaid House are de-
fired to render the to T. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to 1 he House are deCred to make ray-'
ment to him—By whom buCnefi will in future be
carried on,at his Store, No. 39, South Front-ft reel.
7 eod 4W
PETER BORGER, j
INFORMS his friends and the public in general
that he has removed from No. 129, corner of l
Arch and Fourth, to No. 105 North From, be
tween Arch and Rac« llree»;
J"'y *"• | rjt
Rofs £ff Sim/on, Ft "
HAVE FOR SALS—
f Hogsheads,
Excellent Coffee in < Trcrcei, and
C Barrels.
A small parcel of nice cccoa in bags
few puncheons Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior TenertflTee wine, old and in Madeira pipes
An invoice of jewellery and hosiery to be £old by
the package '
A few hampers b«ft English cheefie.
- * dtf.
Window Glass, '
Of Superior' Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the City—
OF rARJOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to 19 hy 14,
By the single Box or Quantity, may be had at the
Store of the Subfciibera, comer of Arch and Front
ftreet. IT OI .
James C. iff Samuel IV. Fijher.
Philadelphia, J -we^ v \ 7y.
This Day is Published, V( J
BY Me(T. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric c , and the c'a,J
o(hci flookfellers, t^e
Price One pollar and cents.
Elegant y primed on Wove pafer, and Hat- Phi'l
prfjjtd, in tl
fly John Thonppfon, of J
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF of v
The Conflitutions deCl
Of the several States with each other, and with ~
that of the .United States: exhibiting in Tables, ...
the promipent features of eaeh Cpnftitution, and
clßflTing together their most impertant provlfions, e ''
under the several heads of admifliftration ; with " e ,
Notes ardObfervations. HI '
By WILLIAM SMITH, CCDCI
Of South-Carolina, the°i
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the ers 1>
United States.
Dedicated to tha People ps the United States.
N. B. A few Copies printfd on an inferior pa
per, at 3-4<hsof a dollar.
February 6 »wf phili
FRIDAY EVENINC
SEPTEMBER :I , im .
Imported in the ship Man chester ,
'con-- r- Benjamin Shewei.l, Master,
°m " o| Jrdeaux, and for file by the fubferi'oer,
TEN Walnut S' eet.
Bonrdeaux Br?.-ndy "1
who market clartt in cases / Entitled to
t | Meaot wine, in do. < Drawback.
LAIf Sauterne, do. do. 1
1 homas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
nely ' ® l,err y Wltle in pipes and quarter casks
cms ?.°' a a " do.
is in Pimento in bsgs
tin 4000 bufhelg Liverpool fait:
The Aug> 2+ " " tut&stf.
vith j\ OF INGENUITY, latfly arrived
eal- "f Europe, wiles to find here a place in
the , e , of a Oireaor of a Glafs-houfc, Chryf
and ' a lunds > havirjj particular means for the
ir a fcS of th,e k,lrs! . P°' s - &c. and pofliihre
4ofp 7 J » rt «=les used in the Slals houses of
s of and France, having worked a long while
Tor them. Every exertion will be rtiide to
iu) f'^ cr 'he manufaijlory delerving of public ap;.r.f
pation—He. who wifli« to speak to him, will find
nim at No. 27j Front-fliect.
tf A "g" f> 14 ' «4 t
nd j or to be let oa ground
v rent,
A-yalunhU Lot of Graund ;
Jt}i the tiorth'-eift corner nf Wal
nut and fifth flreets, fronting the gtate-
Iloiife square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut flreet, ahd one hundred and thirteen
,eet anr ' an h'alf 011 Fifth street ; there are at
™ prefeut two small two story hrick house., and a
s number of small tenements thereon.
, • A/fa, for Sab,
I wo three story Brick Houses
to. With convenient ftorei, wharf, &c. situate on
IV- w iter-flieet, between Mulberry and Siflafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
■f- ty-fourfset, and continuing that breac)th eaft
v- "' ninerv-five feet, then widening to the
at fotith thirteen feet fix inches. 7licfe houses .
ave the conveniance of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a Very desirable fitua
_ '' on or a merchant, flour fiflor,or others who ,
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property wfll be fold on very reafonablc terms
<or cash. For further applv to the
printer.
; d J u| y 3t. m&wtf f
I The Subscriber has for Sale, t
A largp aflortmcnt of India Muslins, 1
coarse and fine
India Calicoes "
Sooty Romall.
B ue Cloths and Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs c
Blue red and Oilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irifli Linens and Slhectirffs, well
assorted ,
A box ef Diapers 1
Silk Umbrellas
Two boxes of fine Spices, cotaininj Nutmegs, v
Mace and Cloves si
f, Black Pepper of firft quality e:
4 Had India Ginger tl
e Java Sugar g
A quantity of Madeira Wioe
Ditto of Oin
s Roll Brimstone
t Mordecai Lewis. e
i l "- jowlm
f - ■■ ■■ ■
5 Cedar Shingles.
fiihfcriber has a njuantky of 3 feet Cedar , s
A Shipeles cf a superior quality, for faie at Ij (V
dollars p ir the uian J. 0 ,
William Hallowell,
1 AV. 193 North "Thitd-Jlreet. th
July 17.
CO I Tit jcc
DUTY ON CARRIAGES. P
fu
Notice is hereby Given, &
That agreeably to an aci of Congress of the ™
United Stat«g of Anitrica, pafled at Phila- - •
delphia, t!>e tßth day of May, if 1)6 j laying cfc
tics on Carriages, for the conveyance of persons, "l
which lh»ll be kept hy or for any person, for his C
yr her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of the several duties and •'
rates following, to wit : "
For and upon ev«ry Coach, 15 do'.s.
upon every CI ariot, 12 dols, . .
upon every Pot! Chariot, f2 dsfs.
upon every Post Chaise, 11 dol».
upon every Pbaeton, with or wixhout top. C °'
9 dols. COl
ufoil every Coachee, 9 dols.'
upon other Carriages, having pannel work ? U .'
above, with blinds, glaifes or curtains,
9 dols. thl
upon fsiir wheelfd Carriages, having fra- t0
med pofls and tops with fleel fprii)gs,6 C ! 3'
*pon four wheeled Carriages, with wood- !
eiy.r iron springs or jacks, 3 dols. an j
upqfiCurrieles with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
u, on other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with tt'eel or f
iron fpricrs, 3 dols. I
For and upon all ether tw« wheel carriage*, e dols. p".
upon every four cirriagc, having '"j
framed polls and '.ops, and retting up- ,"1
on wooden spars, 2 dols. ,
The Colledlors of the Revenoe for the firft Sur-' '-. e
vey of the Dillridl of Pennsylvania, will attend r ' C '
daily, until the 3c th day of September next, lor " ,
the putpofe of receiving the du'ies 01, Carriages, at
No, 117, in ttace or SalTafrasrttreet, in the City ot ,n /
Philadelphia; at the house of Dsniei St. Cbir,Efq." " •'<
in the County of Montgomery; and at the house " '
of Jarnes Chapman, Ffq. in the County of Bucks ; ffV
ol v/hich allperfonspojrefTcd of such Carriatet arc r " C r'
deCred to take notice. lorft
Notice is also giyen,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dif- CVt - r
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will be gcant- f>° °'
ed to them ; one licence for on the bufi- 1
ness of retailing of Wines, in a l<*fs quantity, or dire(i
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li- UITI (
cence for carrying on the bufinefg of iftailinj Spi
rituous liquors in iefs quantities than ao'gaQons, at IT
the fame time and at the fame places, by the o!sc- fe&i<
crs legally aurhorifed ta furi) licence. fabfc
WILLIAM NICHOLS, a&: «
Infpeilor of the Revenue of the fir(i fui- undtj
vey of theDiftriAot Perinfylvania.
Office of JnfpeAion ai "> ,
Phildrfttiphia, 3d Attgufi, 1797. J Im Jw
er, Excellent liourdeaux Brandy
p.tto ditto Claret in case s
iber, J"lt received, and for Sale by
■ Rundle fe? Leech.
"• 2awti"
i to
ck - _ T . OTIr _ istbjufy, 1797.
i\ i, '! given, I fiat separate p.-o-j
po Ls wl,ri covers will be- received
it my office until thfc tlever.rh day of September
next, to fumifh by <omraA the following ar
ticles for the use of the' Array of the Uniterf
otaies in
f First Contrail for
8 Serjeants coats "]
* Muficiam, do. ]
I— xo Sergeants veils [> Drafo.n.,
ivod X rY'vatescoats
ein 12 . & P riv; "« vests J
ry'f. 64 Sergeants coats
t ] lc Musicians, do.
fire Sergeants vcfls
.of 1 9* Wwdiii overalls Artilleriftc
hilc ! 9 2 J men overalls J>. & . !>,
}to fivates ct>ats Engineers*,
r.i- 0.;6 do. vtftt
;nj J?7- Woolen overalls
1872 Linen do.
t 144 Serjeants coats '
7a Mufieiani, jo.
216 Ser«taiiu veits
4.52 i-inen orcralls
431 V/oolen do. . Infantry.
* I- '893 Pi i\ jte» coats
te- do. vests
>nt VVoofco overalls
:en 3784 Lirer. do.
at ift ContraiSr, for 1288 Sergeants
•* 11016 Privates do.
11600 Socks
4<J Cooteafi, fp r a;» pair leatherbretefcw
3d Contrac], for 372 pgjr boots
on 4600 pair fnoes, Nov r
•as , _, 8000 jpair do. No. z
Sf- Contrail, for 103! Artiilerifls and Engi
rt- reers hats
ht 3108 TnFa(itry do.
e» ,p, . , , , , »j6Dra K on /a»ps
Ihe who '* to bp delivered at the _ity of Phil*.
a ° dclphia, vi*. *
ho . ° nt on or before the 15th day of Fg
j bruary next.
nj One fourth on or before the 15th day of A
be pril next.
The remaining half on or before the 1 cth day
of Jyne next.
- The articles are to be agreeable to such pat
terns as (hall be directed by the Secretary for th«
Department 0/ War.
Payments to be made as f«on as the article
shall be delivered, and parted infptftion.
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor,
eotnthSrp.
To Masters and Pilots bringing up VtJTtls
■ll • /rem Foreign Ports to this City.
WHereas fupdry infringements hare lately bee*
made on the laws of this (late for the prw
s, venting peftilcntial or infe<ftious diseases, either
from ignorance or in; ttentios thereto, it it tho't
expedient at this time to pyblifh the following er
-Bth fe.W thC ' IWS ° f " d ApH1 ' ,794 ' 7th awJ
1 .
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1754.*
Bxfrnlt of an aßfor ftcuring the city a, 1,1 port
c / Philadelphia from the iutroduSion of peftU
tent tat and contagionj diseases.
Sect. 7. And be it further enaifted,that every
matter or captain of any (hip or vessel com#, from
lea.(vcflel. a-Sually employed a the c6aft,nf trade ,
and bound to any port or place within
tl,c J'-r'Mlflioo of Pennfylvauia,)ha!l cause hisfhm
or vefiei to be brought to an«hoj-,or otherwise flay
ein t he ftr enm of the river Delaware, oppofit* to
the 1 ealth-Office on Statt-Ifland afotefaid, and
there to remain until he shall have duly ofctaiiUd a
certificate or bill of heal hfr.iu the Refidcnt Phy
sician. And if, previsufly to obtaining fuel, certi
beate or liillof health, any marter or captain shall
(uffer hi fhipor vessel to aDproacli neaftr than Uie
ftid Heafth-Officc to thfe city of Pfeiladfiphia, or
(hall land, caufeorfuffer to he landed, crbrougfit
.; OJI W lore « a t any place or port within this Cora
lubnvPea'th, or at any other port or place, with the
intent of being conveyed into this Commonwealth
any pcrfon Or pcrfons, or any goods, wares or mer
chandise. or, if afte» receiving luch bill of health
0. certificate, he shall negl.fi or refufe to deliver
the lam- to the Healfh-Officcr, such matter or cap
t.iiii inall forfeit ana j"v, for each and every l'uch
offence, the fumof five hundred douasj.
And the captain or matter of every lip or vef
feJ (hall fend a fafe and commodious boat to britiir
the physician on board, and shall in like manner
convey him back to the Health-Office, after he has
concluded his official examination ; And while he
i* making fu<ih examination, or in rase any subse
quent examination by the Healrh Officer or Con
sulting Physician, agreeably to the d,regions of.
this adt, the mailer or captain.shall expose orcaule
to be exposed to thefearch of the ReHdent Phyfi
cian,or of the Health Officer and Confuting Physi
cian (as the cafe may be) each and every part of the
ship or vettel, and shall present to his view cack
and every person or perfor.son board thereof, anil
and shall also true and fatisfaftory answers make
to all such questions as the Resident Physic ian, Ac.
at the time of examination ffiall a(V reLtive to the
health of any port or place frtm which the (hip or
vefiel failed, or has fines touched at—tJ-.e number
of persons 011 board when the ship or vessel entered
on her voyage—the number of pcrfons that have
since been landed or taken on board, and whea
and whererefpe&ively— what pcrfons on board-,-
f they hai'e been during the voyage, or shall, at
the time of examination, be infe&ed with any pes
tilential or,contagious disease—and what is the pre
sent state and condition of the persons on board
with refpejt to their health or diseases. And it
any miller or captain shall refufo to expose as afor»-
aid, to the fesrch of any of the officers afore fa id,
n if he shall corneal any Jiik p&foa, or in any other man-
i er 4"'™' the proper officers afercfuiil in Li, aHfivsrt
uch captain or matter, lor every fucli offence, fkr-U
forfeit and pay the sum of fits uukcked 'dol
lars.
Sect. 8. And if any person ot- persons whatso
ever (the Resident Physician, See. excepted) shall v
go Oil board any vessel, before the matter thereof
has received a certificate of health in the manner
directed, every person so cff.nding, lf.all pay the
um of ONE JSUNDHED DOLLARS,
IT being absolutely receffary tkat tfie foregoing
fe&ions ftiould be punctually complied With, the
fia;.icriber, tn compliance with his duty, mutt ex
a<a a i-»goioBs olifurvaace of the fame,' or clfe b$
undei tht nccefSty of putting the Jaws in force.
V> m. Af.J KN, Health (jjjicsr cj' iht
I'trl ii Ha.
J"!j 14- ' ijw
\VCLVME XII.~~ "PlHadelphia,
Far DAT EVENING, SEPTEMBER I.
, Cixf HOSPITAL RESORT,
"From An gull 31 to September 1, 1797.
Admitted, fuice lift report, J
William Overman, from Samutl Richard's,
\No. 3, Dock-street
Biddy Burke, Capt. Johnftbne's, P. street
George Tremble, Mr. Tremble's, Catharin- J
street, between Front and 2d Sreets. '
DISCHARGED. a
Francis Lamb.ert admitted 23d c
James Duffield 23d 1
Nancy Cboley 19th
Mary Rhea 23d 1
DIED.
CliriSian John admitted 26th
John Corn's '
James Simpfon Jf tli
Remaining hit repast 20
Admitted 3 ]
. i
r 1
23 .
Difchaigcd 4
Died 3 7
Remaining 16
Three of whom are con vakrct.pt-—one doubt
ful—the reit appear in a fair wayof recovery.
Stephen Gerard,
Caleb Lownes,
John Connelly.
City Hall, Sept. 1, 1797.
The Iridfpe£tors of the Health Olfice 011
uf t'le College of Phy
sicians and other gentlemen of the Faculty,
and after confutation with several of their
fellow citizens, on mature deliberation una
nimously adopted sundry refr.lutions found
ed on the laws for. regulating the Health
Office, which in their ojyimon would be
inoft likely to prevent the I'prcading of In
fection, these resolutions were fubniitted to
the Gttvernor, & at the earned solicitation of
the Infpe&ors were fandioncd by his Pro
clamation of the 23d of Aug'uft, 1797.
The inspectors flatter themselves that as
far as those resolutions hare beeu aited on
the moll salutary effects have followed, and
that had they been carried into earlier ope
ration benefits would have refujted.
To impress this belief on their fellow
citizens, and as far as possible to draw forth
their eo-operation, the infpedtors deem it
only necessary to state the manner in which
thofc resolutions have been a£ted on.
No sick person has been removed unless
the attending pliyfician declared to the
health officer that their particular lituatiou
made itneceffaay—no force has been used
or ever was contemplated.
Where persons with infe&ious fevers have
been fitinted in confined places, every per
lon belonging to the house as well as those
adjoining, except the necessary attendants,
have been preffingly advised to remove.
Yellow llags have been placed at the doors
to prevent unnecessary intercourse, and in
the neighbourhood of Penn-ftrett, where
the'■ infed'on appeared molt malignant, a
fence has been ere&ed to stop the commu
nication with that part of the city.
. The city hospital, with several out build
ings, have been kept in complete order for
the reception of the sick, and a number of
tents have been pitched for the accommo
dation of families whose connection with
the sick made it necessary for them to re
move.
After this view of the fubjetft, the In
fpedtors of the Health Office hope that all
sick or indisposed persons, as well as those
employed in the eare of them will fee the
propriety of an early application to their fa
mily phyiician, Do£tor Duffield, consulting
physician f. r the Port of Philadelphia, or
to the aforementioned phyfieians appointed
by the Board, that the necessary relief may
be administered, and the Infpeftorp again re
quest tljot the phyfieians generally will re
port fucb cases as may come within their
knowlsdge, that'the fta'tements of the pro
gress of the d'iforder may be publiflied to
their fellow citizens.
Approved by the hoard,
JOHN MILLER, Jun. Chairman.
"While the foregoing address was under
' consideration, being explanatory of the for
mer resolutions of the board, the following
nsw members requeftcd and had leave to
withdraw.
STEPHEN GIRARD,
JOHN CONNELLY.
CALEB LGWNES,
JAMES SWAINE.
Do£t. Cox—No.
# D,o£t. Dobell—No.
Do£t. Pleasants —No.
Doift. Chnrch—No. And
Do£t. Lcib— No. Northern Li
"berties, were'appointed to seek out and ad
minister relief to such persons as required
affiftancc. '
FofiJUMBURGH,
r pHE Copper Bottomed Ship
•y&TZi. A FAVORITE, John
Thompson, Mister, now at
Bright** wharf, and wiilbe rea
dy to rake in on Monday next,
part of her cargo being wyjaged
and reidy to go on beard. The flip is (o well
known, that it is necdlcfs to describe her. She
is now in compleat order. For Freight or
sage, pleafr to ;.ppl* it Mr. Jeremirli Warder's
Comptiug House. No. 11, North Third street,
or to the Mafler on boril.
Augi ft jO.
for SALE,
On board ihe said Shi?, Swedish Iron, afiorted
Hollow and Window Olaft, Denivjehns, Wrap
P'Hjr Paper fir Sugar Refiners, Rugs of I &. a
Quality.' Plcal'e to apply as above.*
wficm4\v
• Red.Port Wine.
just arrived, by the brig Irij, capt Rhodes, frofti
Oporto,
Rod Port 'Vine in pipes,hhdn. and qtiarterxafts
fc cwt, Coilt, tor falc by
Fhittps, Gramond, Si Co.
Jti'y 11. ' $
XfjccSa jettc.
PHILADELPHIA, d
FRIDAY KVF.NINO, Septtmber 1.
To the Chevalier d'Trvjo, Minified Pleni- p,
pottniiary from Spain to the United States. e[
Sir,
The 10th article of yolir analysis states,
that Mr. Pickering " evidtntly contradifls
himfelf when on one hand he is p'eaftd to C
attribute to you, the movements of the In- c '
dians ; and in the very next paragraph ffiews. \
that it might proceed from American Citi
zens ; as it adtually docs according to Mr. P
Mount's letter, and that he a£ted with the tf
-knowledge and intelligence of the very fame S1
Britim mmifter in whose private notes, -with- <1
out Jignature, and perhaps not in his ott m hand 0
writing, such implicit confidence is placed."
The paragraph in the report to which c
you allude fays, " Whether this plan of ex- n
citirj* the Indians to diredt hoflilities 1
the United States has been contemplated
and promoted by any of our own citizens,
it is difficult to fay ; but that one or more "
of those citizens have proposed and taken
measures to detach the southern Indians j
fr6m the interefl"s of the United States, and t
to destroy the influence of the public agents a
over thofenationsandthus to defeat the great e
objedts ot their appointment, the chief of *
which is to preserve peace, is certain."
Fromthis, Sir, you have found out "that (
Mr. Pickering (hews that the movements ,
of the Indians might have proceeded from I
American citizens. Mr. Pickering has said 1
nothing like it, and if he has faidfo, Blount's j
letter does not support him in his aflertion. (
From that letter it does not appear that any
measures were taken to excite the Indians ,
to actions of any fort. Tt is true that in* it 1
Carey ip advised to leflen the influence of 1
the public agents over the minds of the fa- 1
vages ; in order that if it (hould be resolved
to carry the fclieme into execution it uiig£t
be the more readily accomplished ; and to
this Mr. Picketing undoubtedly alludes
when he fays, that ffceafures had befn taken
to detach the Indians from the uiterefts of
the United States. But surely it does not
follow because measures had been taken to
detach them from our interefls that those
measures had fucceedtd ; much less that I
their movements when hostile towards us
{hould have been the effedt of them. Blount's
motive for endeavouring to destroy the influ
ence of our officers was tp increase his own.
He knew that their efforts would oppose an
insurmountable barrier to the success of his
project, and that projYft wis direftcd a
gainst Spain, not against the United States.
Supposing therefore that he had succeeded
to the extent of his molt sanguine wishes, he
would there have flopped and never have
caused a movement among them hostile
to us.
It is impossible too, that any movement
of the Tndiaas could have proceeded from
any of the measures recommended in that
letter, because the secret was discovered be
fore Carey'could have begun his operatisns,
and the difeovery of the secret completely
defeated the plan.
You call Mr. Lifton's letters " pritate
notes." Now if official answers to official
enquiries on national concerns can be called
private notes, I really do not understand the
term. But they were " without signature."
The importance of this remark leads ycu to
place it in italics. Whether' the name of
Robert Lifton was placed at the top or the
bottom of his letter, is. well worth being
made a fubjeft of diplomatic representation ,
Would any falfehocd have beet! less infa
mous, or would any'fentiment contained in
the letter have been less binding in tba one
cafe than in the other ? Is it necessary to
accompany a communication, of this kind
with all the formal nicity which is eflential
to the validity of a legal obligation ? To
what despicable fhifts are you obliged to
resort to support the feeblenefa of your
cause.
As to the mere surmise that perhaps they were
not in the hand writing of the Britifii min
ilter, I really think it unworthy of notice.
It is a matter of which you been
wholly ignorant, and it is as reasonable to
si. ppofe that any other sommunicat ion which
has been made to our government was not
in the hand writing of the perfou making it,
' as that the communication of Mr. Lifton
was not in his hand writing.
The 1 ith and last article of your analysis
states, that " although in all Mr. Picker
ing's official communications he has always
manifeftedto you that the American govern
ment knew nothing which indicated any
foundation for your suspicions, Mr. Blount's
letter prove 6 that you were perfectly in the
right.".
I have already shewn that Air. Blount's
. letter, infteadof proving that you were per
-1 in the right, proves dirtftly the re
verse. But even admitting that all your
- suspicions were founded on truth, there is
not a tittle of evidence before the public
r that government at that time knew of
' anything whit/i juftified them. There is
' indeed the bare unsupported aflertion of Mr.
' -Bache in favour of a presumption of this
! kind ; but I know nothing in hi 3 chara£ter
I or conduit which entitles his afiertions to
. implic/t He ha 3 been pere»p
---"./ torily a»ntradi&ed and called upon to pro
s' duce his authority. To do this he is either
> ashamed or afraid ; he is either afraid to
shew that he has drawn his information from
a source polluted by a breach of confidence,
or ashamed to (hew upon how flinft fy a foun
dation he has rtfted his positive affirmations.
This may be a " new political fin" ; he
may have Weil once more carried away by
" party palfion," and he may now hope by
" again amuQpg the public with his protefta
tlonscf patriotism and-honor, to wipe away
1 the ftignia which a deteftion of the falfehood
(hall have inflicted upon'his name.
■ Thus, Sir, I hate diferitangled myfelf
from the tedious labyrinth of your letter.
In it you have profefled a personal desire to
preserve harmony between and the in
United States. To use your. owji.terms.— tt
I have seen with pain thafcin its " laoguage fc
and tenor, it is not calculated to promote so tl
defireable an objeft to us all." The lan- is
guage of inflammatory inveftive, of petulant N
and malignant insinuation, never yet h;
produced an amicable termination of differ- d
ence3. A NATIVE^AMERICAN.
We hear that it is the intention of Mr.
Riehardet to continue open that part of the
Coffeehoufe Ui which it is usual for the mer
chants to meet. * Q
W« are informed that within a few days
pod a number of persons have been commit *
ted to prison, on a charge of coining dollars,
?.nd parts of dollars ; the press, and a great v
quantity of counterfeit coin, in various stages
of execution, v/ere seized in their lodgings.
perfons. are also said to have been t
committed to jail for cownterfeiting bank- t
notes, or at least for having a number <Jf
them in their v
Ar.ived, the brijr Abigail, (in three montlu J
fro in Marfcil'.es) last f|-onri Gibraltar, wliicl) r
place ftie left on the ift of July, the mafler of (
whith, VVm.Lake, informs., that c» the 12th of 1
June he A*a» taken by a gun boat belonging to 1
this place, and cajriid in forexair-lnation : that ]
afief opening a number of le tcra, and ftri£tly
examining his p» j<ers, returned them to hirn and
yave hira pcrminioa to depart. That on the ■
aßih do. at night (as he was waiiingfor a wind) '
he wa-boarded by an officer and boat's crew, '
(ill armed, fcelongine (a the British frigite a
ilamadriade, Captain fclphinftoae,) who forci t
l.ly tools a*»ay four of hii.crew, two of which, . t
v'u. Walter Gibbons and John John, had bten j
lately redeemed from slavery it Algiers by the
United States ; the third a Prussian, and the
fourth aFiencfy negro, that could fearcely (peak j
Englilh I hat he attempted the fame right to
go on board said ffigate in order to recover his
men, but wai ordered tq- keep off and to come -
in the morning—That'he attempted to go on
boird her in the morning, and was a fccoml time
ordered to keep off, and informed that he would
not be peimitted to come alpng-fide—That a
bout half an aftetj laid'frigate got under !
way, an.l went to 'ftfc Upon a cruise. That on
tie loth July, off the wtftern islands wasboard
ed by pfficeri from the Komulus and Menifla, '
Bri i:h frigate, who, after examining vrhtre
from and w here bonnd, permitted him to pro
ceed. That on the 13th August, lat. 38, 30,
long. 7b, o, weft, lpoke l'hebe, of and from
Ncor-Yoik, bound to Dominica, out three days,
J ill well.
C:.p;ain I.ake left it Marseilles the Guftavus
Adnlpbiu, Captain Ramp, for Philadelphia,and
the Venus, Captain Daihiel, for Baltimore, to
fail about lite Ult jfjuae.
Those two-walkingim.'gei of murder, treason,
ph.ts, sr.! dark . onlpiracits, the editofsof the Bos
ton Chronicle, to rvince their malice againil the
mau v. ho added to the charter of fiiit citiicn
or -therepublic, po/lclfcs the esteem and veneration
of all those whole good opinio li. honorable *nd
worth poficQirg, atferf.tliat an artillery
company, commanded by one Bradley, refufed to
f. tvEd their fellow citizens in their attentions to
th« oun whom the people delight to,honor. But
if the i'adl is as thry Hate, what does it prove ?
That a dirty crew of groveling mifcreatits had the
1 mcannel's and folly to tly in the face rf the public
Voice, anddifcocr a piuful malice and feeble ven
' on) by a vain attempt to dimiailh the value of a
, dillirguilhcd tribute to txtraordiaary talents and
illuUriofis merit. '
An in.'antous jacobin print, of the moil violent
' (onipleiftion.has within a lhort time been cftablifti
' ed in the town of Newark, iu New-Jersey—and
i so fuccefsful have been its supporters, that they
have already involved the peaceful village and
1 and neighboring country, in Buniberlefs broils.
Through the medium of this virulent press, iflfues
a polluted fountain of pialignity,jlaiider and abuse,
' againd our republican government, and its truly
f republican adininilirati .il—Thefe wretched fcrib
r blcrs 'feck to hunt town diltinguilhed merit, :s tho"
' their enmity to virtue was a natural aud innate
' propinfi y. Ainongit their numbcrleft calumnies,
every man who profefles attachment to our gtiv
-1 err.m.nt, is denounied as a royalist. Attachment
e to the federal government and royaliTm are fynoni
} mous terms, fayi the editor.
I " Alas 1 w.th what ha!iy ftridei arc we adicanc
. ing in imitaticn of the ridiculous wauuers and tor
rupt customs of the old world."
3 A ludicrous circnmitanc: deserves here to be
D noticed. This receptacle of filth and ahlccmty, U
r called, Th« Centincl of Freedom tSj that Jacobin
Gazette of Botlon, which, bv general accepta
tion, pafics under the name of " the Lying Chroni
e cle," pompouQy prefixes to its columns ol fallhood
- —" The Chronicle —1 *uth its guide, and I'iberty
:. i.V 'ft * Rj\"t Tcneatii.
n
0 A political witter in a Providence paper, thus
' concludes his essay.
" 1 lhall concludtJ.with a word rrfpeeiing otrr
young and thrifty fj.f'tgs of PainaiTus—The town
, has been muchalarmtd with theprogrefs which the
n yellow fever has made ; —but it f.'cir.l that the pa
itti.nl fner rages with redoubled violence unnotic
ed.—lnall probability,the contagion iscaughc from
S the qrdurc tf the Cbr^nUle— 1 lhall therefore humbly
' propose, that a committee he .tppointed to rcm ive
s this rnirjavee, to prevent the contagion from being
communicated to others "
3 The following was inclosed in a letter
e from New-Orleans, of the 4th of June :
PROCLAMATION,
g GOVERNMENT having received in
-. formation through her mi.lifter, near the
United States of America, that an expedi
te tion, colle&ed os the Lakes, would, this
1 summer, attack the Illinois—hath thought
c proper, for the security and tranquility of
.f Lower Louisiana, to ftifpeud the alrea4y
is commenced evacuation of the posts of No
r, gles and Natchez. These being the only
is posts which cover the lower province, the
;r ceffiou of them would eiable the English,
o should they render themselves masters of Up
). per Louisiana, to diiturb and ravage that
>. country ; and this would be the more easily
r effected, as by an article of the treaty lately
o concluded with'Grcat-Britain,, the United
m States acknowledge that the English may
e, navigate freely, and frequent the polTj of the
1. said states, upon the rivers in general, lakes,
s. Bcc. a manifeft cmitradi£liou to the treaty
ie concluded with Spain, which it fcems to
y annul, since by this last the United States
y declare that n'o nation- (hall navigate the
j. Mississippi without the consent of Spain.
y Although the legitimacy of these motives
id of fuf enfion hath been represented with
fuhable candor to the Congress of the Uni
lf ted States, and communicated by our or
r. ders to the cornmiffioner for running the
o bonr.dary line, ac well as to the ccmcwnd
ing officer of the detßchnjeiii of American
tf'Oops now nt Natchez; yet, we are in
formed that a detachment from the army of
the United States, stationed on the Ohio, on
is now on its way through Holftein to the
Natchez, whilst thd~militia of Cumberland °'t
have been warned to hold themselves in rea- Ec
dinefs to march on the (hortefVnotiee. hei
These hostile arrangements which can on- co
ly relate to these provinces, since the United fe f
States are now at in peace with all the fava<re lug
nations ; the recent threats of the commif- on
fionyr tor establishing the boundary line, and hii
of the officer commanding the American de- no
tatchment at Natchez ; the profpeft, and wt
(if we may creditan American gazette) the th
commencement of a rupture between France, to
our intimate ally and the said states, all ad- m<
vise us'to be upon our guard, and ready so t0
defend our poflefliorcs with that valour, that th
energy, which the inhabitants of this conn- c "
try .have difplaytd on all occasions, with
that and superiority wliich a
knowledge of.-their local situation afford, c 0
with that confidence which integrity and th
justice inspire. If the Congress of the Uni- mi
ted States entertain no hostile designs against ca
these provinces, let them leave the posts of ra '
Natchez and Nogales, which are the only
barriers between the English and L»wer
Louisiana ; or let them secure us against
that article of the British treaty which ex- no
poses even the capital of Lower Louisiana an
to be sacked and pillaged—we will then ' ,e
evacuate the posts and lay down those arms
which they force us to afTume, by arming ( j (
their militia in a time of profound peace, i
and fending a considerable body of trbops
b/circuitous routs to surprise us. A
Nfw Orleans, May ji, 1797.
Foreign Intelligence. ! '«
By the Ship Cumberland, Cap'. Scott, from t(
Hull.
LONDON, July 11.
Tt it with great pleasure we announce a
the fafe arrival of the Weft India convoy g
homeward bound, without the loss of' a J
single (hip. t'
The last dispatches from earl St. Vincent c
give the public reason to expeft that they v
will fliortly hear of anothef' decisive blow t
agaiuft the Spanish navy. The dispatches (]
are dated the I sth ult. on which day the p
Spanifil admiral had made the signal for 0
the whole fleet to unmoor, with a view of
breaking our line of battle which blocks up f
the port of Cadiz, and of putting to sea. l
But the wind (hifting, the Spar.ifh fleet
dropped anchor, without changing any part : V
of its position. j 1
The king of Spain'is arrived at Cadir, 1 1
with a view of quieting the minds of the :
merchants there, and to accelerate the tardy, j
operations of his marine. The merchants ,
have on this occasion presented a memorial 1
to his majellv, setting forth the hardlhips
they labour undir in the interruptios of ,
their commerce, from the pert of Cadiz 1
having been so long and so closely block- 1
aded, that no (hip could fail from or enter j
it. The king gave for answer, that his ad- \
miral had received his final inftruft;ons',» ,
which ate supposed to be—to risk an en- ]
gagement. The Spar.ifh fleet confifls of ,
30 fail of the line ; our's is only 22—nine
of which are, however, three deckers. 1
) Fr6m _ the admirable position of our fleet, ,
and the (kill and bravery of our officers and ,
5 seamen, the noble commander is under no 1
| anxiety of the result. The' whole fleet is
in the highest state of subordination, and
' has felt nothing of that feverifh spirit which
: has pervaded some other divisions of the
■ British navy.
; July 12.
We this day learn that the Irifli parlia
ment is adlually dissolved—much, we un
derstand, to the disappointment of our mi
nisters here, who had dispatched an axprefs
to delay the difTolution, hut which express
s arrived a few hours too late,
i It is fixed that parliament (liould be pro
■ rogued on Friday fe'nnight.
The deluded to treafou in various parts
! of Ireland, (fill continue'to givr up arms,
1 take the oath of allegiance, and embrace
the amnesty and forgivenefs held out by the
s lenience of government. Most of the'mif*
led have, hi this way, thrown off the guilty
r occupation that traiterous deception had
* led them into.
July 14. *
At 12 o'clock on Wednesday night,
" Mr. East,' a king's mefTenger, arrived in
J town from lord Malmefbury. Mr. East
g came passenger from Calais in a Danish
packet; he was onlv 29 hours on his jour
ney. We understand that the mail coming
r from Paris had been (lopped and the poll
boy murdered.
We learn that several conferences have
1- taken place between M. Letourneur and
e lord Malmefbury, and that each has deliver
i- ed to to the other his projet.
is At the fame time that lord Malmefbury
t dispatched a courier to England, the French
>f plenipotentiary also sent a messenger to Pa
y ris, with the propolltions made by lord
)- Malmefbury. No time has been loft- in re
y plying to the dispatches received by Mr.
Ie Eafl;, as an answer was returned to them
1, late last night, when Mr. Brooks and Mr.
>- Drcflms, king's messengers, left town for
it Lisle, to be in waiting,
y The Paris papers received contain no
y other news than of the failiug of a divifiou
d of the French fleet from Toulon, and of a
y very small vote of credit being granted to
ie the minister of marine, until he makes up
s, his accounts.
y On Monday the loth indent, the follow
o ing seven mutineers, of the Leopard, viz.
.'8 Dennis Sullivan, Alexander Lavvfon, Wm.
;e Welch, Joseph Fearon, Win. Rdfs, Geo.
Shave, and Thomas Sterling, were execut
es ed at the Nore, pursuant to their fei.tencp ;
h four on board that (hip, and three 011 board
i- the Lancaster. The fcrjtences on James
r- Robertfon and John Habbigan, recom
ie mended to mercy, were respited.
J- Price of Sltrfi —Consols 54.
4
NEW-YORK, Aug,,ft 30. I
General Pirrckney remained in Hulked '
on the 1 jth of July.
.On Monday night, about half pa't to
o'clock, a person of the name of William
Edward", was going through the Park,
being about the centre, a person in a dark
coloured coat came up to him, and pre
sented a piftbl to his breast, and bid him
lug out his money—Edwards having only
one and fix pence in his pocket, he ordered
him to l'peak very low, and said " he was
not the person he wanted." It seems there v
were three or four in a gang, and one of
them walked fluwly, watching Edwards
towards Warren street. We hope that
meafurta will be taken to bring these villains
to juttice, as this is a further proof that
there is a gang of them lurking about the
city.
Najfau, N. P. July 25.
This day, hi 3 honour the judge ot the
court of vice admiralty gave his decVee in
the cafe of the American brigantine Har
mony, Sbaekleford ;. whereby the vefTel anil
cargo were acquitted, with coils and da- ■ 4
mages.
FROVIDESCF, Aujruf>a6.
Ex?raS of a letter from Hahlburgh, da?ed July 7.
"l,orr! Malmeftury, the Eng'ifh negotiator, is f
now gonertoLifle where is to tru*t with the Trench
ambalTadcrs abcut peace, which it is thought will
he concluded, though it rcmaiuc doubtful when, or
how."
Married, Capt. Robert ! i'i'ibridgc, of PhiU
delphia, to Miss Charlotte Sabin, daughter of Mr.
Thomas Sabin.
Dies, Mrs. Sarah Allen, consort of Maj. Wm.
Allen.—Mifs Eflher BroArn, danghtc-r of. the late
George Brown, Efn —James Arnold,
ny years town treafeterof thii tswr ; hi* Onfort,
Mrs. Mary Arnold ; his Son, Mr. Jo eph Arnold {
I cing the whole family.- Mr WiiTiam I iHingbifit.
—Mrs. Mitchell.—Mrs Guf,.—Mr. Reuben Vas
ter.
BOSTON, August 26.
Of the French privateer, so much talked
about, some account may be seen under the **
Salem head.—Her condijA in preferring
Marble head to this port, starting her water
the day before her arrival, and other cir
cumstances, have excited suspicion. But ,
we are told (he came merely to wattr; and
that (he has not captured any fince
, she left the Havannah.—Her surgeon, and
part owner, has been in town.—She is full
of men.
A mast-ship, anc>feveral transports, have
failed for England from Halifax, convoyed
by la Raifon, Capt. Berresford.
" Providence is now in 3 perfeft flats of
health, notwithftaoding falfe reports. There
: have been feren persons taken with the yel
-1 low fever, who have died. At present they
are no more complainitig, as that disorder ?s
c 00 more as the phyfician6 all fay. Those
wfio have died caught it by an infeflious
I vefTel which lately arrived from the Weft
! Indies ; and by the baseness and villainy
f of the mailer; who ne;ver told there had
• I been any sickness on board." 0"?* Wc can
■ ] not fuffer this extraft, which is authentic,to
r pafsoter, without noticing the danger which
- this town is in from a visit of the "calatiSty
>■ which has spread in many parts of the U
■ nited States so much dillrefs. The negli
f gence of those who have the appointment of
: Health' Officers ; and who are charged-with
• the execution of laws against the spreading
> of infedtious diseases, if as great as is repoit
-1 ed, and somewhat apparent, deserves the im
' mediate notice of the citizens. W e ought
1 to be wife from others alarms ! Bojl. CtnU
» A CURIOUS CIRCUMSTANCE,
c , There is now at Newport, Rhode liland,
a French.preacher among the Friends, who
is much admired and followed. Hs was an
- officer in the French cavalry uptil converted
- to quakerifm. Hisjife and' manners are ir
* rcproachzble, fimple, and llriil
s ly cpnformable to tlig purity and spirituality
s of .the tenets of that refpe&abhf feft. This
military convert, this modern Cornelius,
>- does not attempt to dazzle his hearers by
that glow of oratory so natural to his coun
;s trymen, but speaks with all that delibera
>, tion and mildness so remarkable among, the
* Friends. but seldom, and when
c he does, he frequently pauses more than
f- half a minute between his sentences. The
Y purity of the heait, the worlhiping in the
d spirit, the futility of ceremonies, and the
joys of new 'Jerusalem, are the faultlef*
themes which fall from his deliberate tongue,
t Although he is so perfect a friend in his
n do&rines and manner of public speaking,
ft yet his drab coloured plain cloaths eannot
h conceal the genteel movementsof theFrencli
r_ man, nor hi 3 broad beaver wholly -veil that
g sagacious phyfiogtiomy, and eye of fire,
it which ever ditlinguifhes the sons of old Gaul.
The Friends esteem him a remarkable and
le very valuable convert, raised up 011 the
id great head of the church, for some good and
r _ glorious purpose, wbile some of the wicked
and uncharitable, hefmte not to whisper
-y th'eir suspicions tbat lie is an artful man,
; h who means to become the father confejfor of
a _ the whole flocks He may !■ * what he seems
r J a well meaning, conscientious man, yet it
e . cannot be deemed illiberal, if so extraordin
tr. ary >a charrftrr fliould be followed by the
m eye of suspicion, feeing he comes from a na
r. tion who hava systematized intrigue, even
or before Ignativs Loyola founded that injlueHti
nl order, thefoclety of Jefus\ who by their
iq machinations, were at one time in a fair way
an of governing all Eur»pe.
to SALEM,-Auguft 2<j %
jp On Tucl'day lafl,a French privateer schoo
ner, of 8 guns and about 70 men, arrived at
w . Marblehead, where (lie remains still. They
z, report that they belong to Baffetcrre, Gua
rn, daloupe, but were lull from Havanna, m
•o. 14 days. Her objeft in coming here can
Tt l only be coojeatured. They speak of having
e ; dispatches from Guadaloupe for the Consul
id at Boston. The officers declare, that they
ies aiolell no American veiTels which have the
m _ requisite papers, unless tliey are bounei to or
front Trench cr Dutch places now poffefied
,by ths. Britiffix They rcjv. rt that ihey■met in the Bahama Strfiits, in thi.nighf,
jrhe Saucy Jack, of 14 guns,-ke!nnging to
Nc«.v-Providence, exchanged a broad fide
with her and parted and that they after
wards fpok ; wi.h a vefTel from Ireland bound
to Philadelphia, that had been boarded by !
the Jack, from' which they learnt "that they '
had killed her firft lieutenant and a number /
of men. The Frene'nrrtin received a wound (■
•in the mast, at least, and probably some o-r
ther injury. * •
WALPOLE, (N. H.) Aug. 21
INCIDENTS AT HOME.
Early yesterday morning, the inhabitants \
of this village »ere rouftd to oppose the fu
ry, not of the firry but of the watery ele
ment. Vail quantities of rain, having fallen
»he preceding night'and collected from our
mountains in torrents, too' mighty to be re
tained in the wonted channels, had burst their
bounds, and Were ruftting into different parts
of our street with deftru&ive impetuosity.
Many buildings were undermined and much
injured ; the furface and produce of several
gardens fvvtept away ; and a confidenble
quantity of other property carried off or
damnified. A fulling-mill, belonging to
Mr. Sike6 in the north part of the town, a
number of mills.and bridges in the vicinity
have, we hear, been carried a\*ay by thia
deluge. The extent we have not yet ascer
tained.
Citizen Monroe loudly demands the rea
fpns of hjs recal.' Our faithful secretary of
state offers to ivhifper them in the citizen's
ear ; but he is determined not to hear a sin
gle rcafon, unless given as Itvcily as he makes
the demand. If reasons are ever offered,
we hope they willbe fatiofaftory to the ci
tizen, as he intends, it is supposed, if they
appear inefficient, to resume his office.
The progress of fraternal institutions
augers well to civilization and to letters. A
lodge of free and accepted ipafons has lately
been confecratpd, at Amherft, in this date ;
two others, at Groton and Munfon, Mass.
with a pleasing display of elocution and sen
timental hilarity. The latter is called the
" Thomas Lodge," in honor of Isaiah
Thomas, JLfq eminently distinguished by
his attachment to the craft.
The " Phi Beta Kappa" foeiety has
given to the public the " Ruling Palfion,"
(a poem, which has extorted unbounded
applause) and hare provided an ample
past, at the next anniversary, for the literal
ry epicure.
RICHMOND, August 14.
On Saturday, the Foundation Stone of
the PENITENTIARY - HOUSE to be
erefled near this city, wai laid, 111 presence
[ of i large and refpe&able number of Inha
bitants.
The hon. the Executive having sent a
polite request, to the Masters of the differ
ent Lodges of the Society of Masons in this
City and Manchester for their affillance, on
the occasion—about 11 o'clock, they assem
bled at the Masons Hall, from whence the
procession (under the direftion of Brother
--L. \Vood, as Marshal) moved in the fol
lowing orcler to wbtre the Stone
was «> be deponted.
MUSIC.
Two Tylers, with Swords.
The Corner Stone cafriedby 4 Brethren.
Hodds, &c. carried by Brethren.
Stewards —carrying the Corn, Wine & Oil.
HOLY WRITINGS.
Brethren—Two and Two.
Junior Deacons.
Secretaries of the different Lodges.
Triasurers. ,
Junior Wardens of the refpe&ive Lodges.
Senior Wardens.
Past Masters.
Masters of the four Lodges with
The Architect on their left.
Senior Deacons.
Two Tylers with Swords.
The Stone being s laid with the usual for
malities, by the different Matters, a (Tided
by his Excellency the Governor ; a plate
with the fubjokied Inscription thereon, Was
deposited. After partaking of some refrefb
went, the procession returned to the Hall,
in the greatest Harmony and good order.
INSCRIPTION.
\
THE LEGISLATURE OF
VIRGINIA.
fX riXG J.IBOIISBED THE A NCI ENT SANGUINARY
CRIMINAL CODE,
Tfirs first Stone of a BUILDING,
THE MONUMENT OF THAT WISDOM,
WHICH WHILE IT PUNJSHES,
• ' WOULD REFORM THE
CRIMINAL,
WAS LAID
ON THE 12TB DAr Of AUGUST,
IN THE YEAR 1797,
Anb of AMERICAN INDEPENDENCE
the XXII.—By
The Worfliipful Nathaniel W. Price,
Mafler of the Richmond Lodge, 'No. 10.
James Strange, Master Manchester Lodge,
No. 14.
W. H. Fitzwhylfonn, Richmond Ran
dolph Lodge, No. 19.
James Macniillan, St. John's, No. 36,
with the officers and members of their rci.
pettive Lodges,—The most R.
Brooke, being Grand Mafter —5797-
His Excellency James Wood, Governor
of State.
Hon. Hardin Burnley, Lieut. Governor.
Carter Braxton, M. Jones, John Pen
dleton, Jofrn Mayo, John Guerant, Alex.
M'Rea, of the Council of State.
Brother Benjamin H. La Trobe, Bonne
val—ArchiteQ.
E P I G R, A M.
Mv friend, thehnr eft Doctor's dead !
His merry jokes the neighbors te
The men all praise his learned head ;
The women fay he kneiu things we'f I
Briflc e'«n to death he caU'd for wine,
And when o!d crazy time, alas !
Slicw'dhis land run, " I do repine,"
Said Ift, " to- fee ao em; ty c hk,"
(«,
I
XSc (Dtisctte» jf
PHILADELPHIA, \j
i f FRIDAY EVENING, SjrfMw, r . ]i
IJ t
'Lift of Cases of contagious feve,\ which ha ve
I occurred since the 25th of Augufl, to the
f present date, Sept. I.
• Aug. Tlie follow ill? were omitted in former
I.ifl, viz.
Tofejih Welt, .ftnrlent in medicine, Pine ft. | 1
Y< ung wnman, at Mr. Wynkoop's, VJfiter I
above Pine.
Mr. .(nice, front above Pine '
B. AfhmeaH, fnion above Second. j si
51 admitted to the Citv Hospital, from the ,
i Sth to the 26th, of whom 21 have died, 1
ii remain sick
»6th (Siniuel Cummins) Water above Spruce. '
( Mr. Krtllack)
Mr McLeod's son, Water heloW Soutfi.
f v r. Mnrphv) at (hooper's ferry.
( Mr. Cole) Second Uelow Pine.
Capt. McCsw'an, on hoard (hip Aflive near
Christian Itreet. Capt. McCowan con- f
dnfled the Arethufa to this Fort five davs ]
before his attack e>f fever.
(Oo.il, Thompson) Front above P rie. ,j 1
17th Mr. Stephen Thompson, medical stu
dent, do.
Mils Wynltoop, Water above Pine. I 1
Mr. Burnet, Water and Spruce.
Do<Sl. Way, Second above Walnut.
ißih Mr. Laper, Lombard near jth. ! ]
Two women, at Mr Poller's-
Mr. J. Marlh, Christian ftreet
191th Nancy Ti-nmous, Peun Or. near S«uth.
Polly ;
Martha > Dolby, do.
and John J
VV'ai:, do
Thoin:s and ) „
Mrs.Fitzgerald, j Water #jT°w Qncen.
John, at Mr. Davis's, Front neir Sprsce.
Mr. Reindallar, Lombard neir Second,
> 30th Two black girls, at Mr. LeoHV
Uriah, at Mr-Drowns, Secr.ndhelow Pine.
• 31ft Mrs. Kelley, Alley near South-
Jacob Shoemaker, Stamper's Allry.
' Mrs. Purket, Water Jiear Spruce.
John Barker, Water near Pine.
The fevtrhas also made some pr«»r?fs in Ken
'■ finj;ton 4 into which place it appears to have
1 been introduced by a yourg man named Brewf
r tcr, who had been with marketing on hoard the
(hip Hind, while lbe lay at Fort the begin
. ning of Augnft. This young mjn died vom
, ited black m itter previous to his death—cotn
municated the disease tn some of his atifcndanu,
according to the report of his Physician llr.
■ Leib, and a letter to the Board of Health from
V- riower, wbofe brother lately died of the
sdileale.
Burials"hnt!?"?4Tiours, ending yesterday
( at'^ioon, —5 adults, and 4 children.
(DIED, on Tuesday evening last, Dr. Ja
o« Thompson.
On Friday the 2 yth inft. departed this
i life, after a tedious illness of 8 months, cap
. tain John Mease, jun. of thfe city.
i DEATH of BURKE.
An article dated Newcastle, July 2y, an
e nouncwthedeathofEDMUND BURKE,
f the immortal Orator and Statesman,—that
" great man, whose valt and irresistible elo
-6 quence has so eminently contributed to pre
serve Great Britain from being overborne by
that immense torrent of Gothic barbarism,
which has broken down the feeble barriers
• elsewhere oppoftd to it, and whelmed in e
qual desolation and dullness, the frozen gla
• ciers of Savoy, and the mild, fertile clime
of the once fierce .and high fouled Iberian.
All bow beneath the blast, for " the Age
of Chivalry is gone j" and to " fall down,
rafcal-'ike, with a pinch," is become the
falhion ot these degenerate times.
'• Cold is that tongue whose high-wrought
eloquence could keep alive in one little i.le
alone, a fire which it saw daily extinguish
ing in the regions around, by the mighty
hand of revolution and disorder. Nor did
he live to fee it put out. The extin&ion of
the mutiny a Ihort time btfore his death,
trniH have (hed a benignant gleam over his
d latest msments ; aud laid his aged bejd,
e content, in the lap of Death.
Sieger/fit " Gloria Mundi."
I, Died, lately, in Zng'and, at a very great
age, Charles Macrivn, member
of several literary societies, and author of
several of the most popular Farces. Mack
lin was also an adlor, and particularly cele
brated for his performance of Shakespeare's
r Shylock. Garrick h reported to have ex
, claimed, when he firft saw him, " That 1 s
r ' the Jew that Sbakcfpearedrew nor would,
the latter ever perform in that character, on
account of the overbearing excellence of
Macklin io a part for which he deemed him
to have been fafhioned by nature.
To lie Citizens if PiilaarlfliM vile are gam eul of trwn
Fellow Citizens,
E Many r,fyou have (hut up yeut houses, and lock
ed ynur gates, whereby no fair aceels can be had
to the ripe fruit which is rotting upos your trees
c ' and vines. This fruit would afford a comfortable
repast to the poor ficlc in the Wigwam and in other
;, parts of the town ; whj then can you not give di
redtions to those to whom you have entrusted your
keys, to deliver peaches and grapes whiclryou can
not eat yourfelvet and which the boys or birds will
deltroy for you—Some thoughful cop
5, fuiercd and proviiefl for this in time,but others
f. have omitted to do it, or left a liberty clogged with
fo many reftrivHiotn, that those who would alk for
a little J'ruit for tbc sick, confiJer the manner in
which it is given as denying them to call again. If
■ >r there was ever a time to feel for the m'fery ofyotfr
fellow eitizf»s it is now, and to he as generous as
r. your situation will admit of. That a kiud Provi
dence may permit us soon to fee each other again to
our common comfort,is the fervent wilh <>f your
s - FELLOW CITIZEN.
Sept. I.
e-
Mc/frs. Clayfoole,
I OBSERVED in your paper of this
morning the following information, viz.
" We are informed that the health-of
fice in Southwark is (hut up, it having been
found an ufelef3 institution, owing to the
general health of the inhabitants, and the
total absence of contagious disease from that
quarter."
I beg leave to inform you and jhe public,
that the conimitte of Southwark have i.ot
(iuitiip tli-frnffice as was aff.iiec 1 , iut re
moved it to Mr. Jouath?.!) Penrofc's ice
house, back oP the hay-Peal' ' in fe.:ohd
ftreet, a place well known in the diftritt / (
As to its being an uTelefs iuftit'ition, I will „
Iteve that to the inhabitants t>f Southward .0
tddetermine.
A Tvterrber of the "South-rvark Cjtnmittec. °
pouthwark, Aug. 31, ,i 797«
/ GAZETTE MARINE LIST. °
i Po:rr cf Phii.adf.lpria. '
I ? RRI V£D, DAVS. '
Bhip Cumberland, Scott, Hull 40 t
:< T>rig C'ariffa, Brewton, Rotterdam- 84 ; ,
; Sch'r Sally, Jackl'on, Boston 16 (
Dove, May, Charleston 12 <
Sloop Katy, Gwinn, Norfolk 7
Sally, Anthony, Rhqde-Ifland 9
Sylvia, Macey, Nanjucket 9
Sally, AVhite, Virginia 7
Come up from the Fort.
Ship Experiment, Jenny, Aux Cayes
Britifii armed brig Swinger, Sinclair, Bar
badoes
Brig Pilgrim, Smith, Port'au Prince
Little John, Butler, Petit Guave .
Sch'r Herminia, King, Port au Prince .
Sally, Calley, Surrinam (
Eutau, Brewfter, Cape Francois
Sloop Hiram, Thornton, Port au Prince
Arrived at Nevv-Caftle the (hip general
I Washington, Steel, from Londonderry,
with 430 passengers, all in good health.
The Cumberland failed from Hull the '
17th July, in company with the brig Mer- j
cury, Miller, for Baltimore, and parted from
her the 28th do. off Lewis's illand, all well. '
Left at Hull, the
Ship Two Friends, Davidfon, of this port.
Pallas, IV-. New-York
' Molly, do.
Jofcph, Felt, do.
Hannah, Bobbins, Weathersfield.
The (hip at the fort from Boston, has
dropped down, to Marcus-Hook.
The brig Aftive, and schooner Fair A
merican, Simkins, of Philadelphia, were at
Antigua, August 1.
Upwards of twenty fail of fquare,rigged
vessels are below ; amongst them are, the
(hip Wafnington, Steel, and a snow, be
longingtoNew-York,fromLondonderry, with
passengers ; a (hip belonging to Kennebeck,
fiom • Hull ; the brig Susannah, Butler,
from Madeira ; a schooner from Aux Cayes
(supposed to be the Orion) ; brig Wel
come Return, Labrce, from Savannah, and
tlie brig Fair Hebe, Eldridge.
New-York, August 31.
ARRIVED. Days
Ship , , Philadelphia
Lydia, Goodrich, Amsterdam 7?
Brig Vigilant, Cables, Jamaica 40
Prudence, Sanrord, Curracoa 24
Neptune, Devirex, jSalem 5"
Schr. Orange, Saul, Baltimore 12
Sloop Hercules, Colver, Norfolk 6
Mary, Totten, St. Croix
Brig Flora, it captured asd carried into
New Providence.
Lift of American vessels left *t Amsterdam,
June 14th, 1797. received by Captain
• Goodrich, of the (hip Lydia, from Am
sterdam :
Ship Sifters, Charleston, Mulloy, for
Hamburgh
Elizabeth, of Philadelphia, Bray
Goo I Friends, do. John Smith
Amiable, do. D. C. Tillinghaft.
Neptune, do. Jeffereys
Fox, of Charleston, L. Lincoln
Three Friends, ofNe w-York, J. Grimes
. v Minerva, of do. K. Clarkfon
Holland, of George-town, Dawtbrj.
( Brig Hannah, of Philadelphia, Kenney, for
: St. Croix
Fame, of Baltimore, G. Stiles
Betsey, of Newburyport, G. Jenkins.
Betsey, of Boston, Job Prince
Patty, of Salem, Win, Ives.
Arrived—Brig Two Sillers, Conkling,
Cape Francois.
Ship Phoebe, from Havre de Grace, for
• New York, wa3 spoke July 13, Ist. 41,
54, long. 39. •
From the log-boot of the brig T-wi Sifters,
Contling.
August id, was boarded by the British
frigate Ambuscade, treated politely and
j dismissed.
" August 13, spoke a Britifli letter marque
p (hip, of 20 guns, called the General Ni
t choll, capt. Morrifon, belonging to Gre
nada, and then bound to the Grand Coycas
—(he was manned by Engli(h, French,
Spani(h, Portuguese, Americans, See. The,
captain was ordered on board with his pa
pers ; the captain of the (hip, without ex-
J amining them, put them in his chest and
s went himfelf on board the brig ; he there
c beat with bis hanger every sailor on board,
r ordering them at th£ fame time to declare
r the property to be French ; finding such
- treatment in vain, he took the mate and
1 every sailor out of the brig except one (ick
" man, and manned her with his officers and
failors and made fail for the Coycas; our
r mate observed to him that it was a.lhatne to
n abuse neutral sailors as be had done ; he re
s plied that we were all a parcel of Yankee
r rafcata, and put the mate in irons, hands
' and feet. After giving ua every poflible
o trouble and ill treatment, he was prevailed
on to examine the papers, after which, at
lb P. f>l. he sent us on board the brig, the
prize master and mate which were put on
board the brig were Americans, and void
of principle or humanity, took away the
8 captains spy glass and many other articles.
Providence, Jugvjl 26.
n Tuesday arrived the (hip ladcpenden.t:, of this
e pert, capt. Hallowed', ir( 41 day» fr'm Hamburgh,
e having performed the voyage out auj home in 91S
t days.
Capt.H'illawell informs, that the (hip Confede
racy, of New-York, cap'. Seott Jeyckes, from
: > Cant»n for New-YorV, is capturci a:;J carrkdin
>t to France.
• i in of- wfT Jjf rt
Ships M?»rv
•' rfi-, r,-\r dnef : <m<l
York :—Afei T amK ami Sotb'fr Warden,of Eof- * J
f or-CV.rolton . P.fartip, of ;— F.ifr
prize, Nrrris of Pliila 'rlrrhn ;—Caffingr Hcacb, }-' a
of Cart- nn— F'iza,- NeWflTm, and Ffr Ifc
fVx, Wadl<\ of N \v ucretia, How kind,
of New Bedfor ; ; —Fairy, Colc\ of Beverly.—
Baraue Vigilant, Mafurv, of -Salem.
5 ijed in rrmpanv wi*h-*he Ihjp Char'otte. N;'a',
of \ew-York, and Wti£ B«tfev, of -
Tuly t6 in fioht of Fair 'fie spoke the ship Mer
cury, of Snco, from bound to H.m
tHJfgh, out -fx da v s (bort .of, tvafe-. — July 30. la'.
50 lone 31 , fpokf the fhtp Montezuma, of Hal
lowell, from for Virginia, out. t 6 days. c
uguft d lat. 4?. 45, long. 4{/{poke the brrfr
Swan, chacv, from Newhdryport f or
rut 14 days. a r »welh—■ lfo, the (Mp Knight, of r
Charleston, from the Havannah for Hamburgh,
out 57 days.
By this day's Mail. <
—1 t
NEW-YORK,. August 31. t
Received by the brig Vigilant, captairi'Ca- c
bles, arrived Jiere yesterday from Fal- 1
mouth (Jamaica) June 21. '
Yesterday arrived here the American
brig Sally, captain Tarry. 29 days from <
Rhode-Island, with'a cargo or provition3, 1
lumber, and fifh, conflgned to Messrs. John 1
ChriftJe and Co.
Wednesday last arrived the brig Polly, •
captain M'Lean, belonging to this porf, in 1
32 days from tlie Bay of Honduras, loaded 1
with mahogny—The Polly mourns 4 guns '
4 pounders, and her men 17 in number, in
j eluding the capt'ain and a Mr. Cross, passen
ger. Captain M'Lean diftiuguifhed himfelf
by a mod able defence of his vessel, off this
port, against a republican (loop privateer of
4 guns, and full of men, with mulqnetry and
small arms.
In , fight of the inhabitants of this town
and neighborhood, at half past four in the
afternoon, the a£lion commenced. The
Polly was under a press of foil, with a frefn
breeze, fleering dire&ly for the harbour*
and the privateer within mufjeet (hot to
windward. In this position a running fight
was kept up for upwards of an hour, during
which time the privateer fired 22 guns, ex
clusive of muquitry, at the Polly ; finding
(he would not strike, the desperado put his
helm up, and made three different attempts
to board. In the last (he run her jib boom
direttly under the Polly's main boom, to
board on the quarter ; fortunately, however,
the firft man that attempted to get en the |
Polly's boom, miffed his hold, and fell over
board. „ 1
This very lucky accident, and a volley
of small arms, from capt. ,M'Leans brave
crew, threw the republicans into confufion
and they bore away to pick up their man,
which brought the Polly to windward, and
a head; the (heels of the privateer flying
her topsail being (hot* away, it took some
time to pick up the man, and get the (licets
fplieed which was no sooner done, than they
made fail after the Polly, and was soon up
with her; when nearly under her stern, the
captain of the privateer brandiftied his sword,
was diftindlly heard to fay in broken English,
we have got hira, threatening instant death
to the Polly's crew, if they did not strike.
At this moment enpt. M'Leans boatswain,
John Hill, a brave fellow, got the only gun
that could be brought to bear upon the ene
my, a stern chafer, which, was a load of
caniftcr (hot, he fired that into, her decks.
This gun molt probably saved the Polly, as
several of the privateer's men were fecn to
fall, and the blood running from the deck;
the moment after the boatswain fired this
gun, he-was unfortunately killed, a grape
(hot went through his head.—Capt. M'Lean
had a very narrow escape, a ball from the
famegun that killed hisßoatfwain,grazed his
check, and took offfor.e of the (kin. The
marauders finding they were nearly in gtin
(hot, feeing several boats with armed men
beating out of the harbour, and Fort Bal
caras tiring at them, after.very politely
wifliing capt. M'Lean a " Good Night,"
bore away, with the the tri-coloured flag
flying, and got off.
The cook of the ? ollv, a free negro,
late of the (hip York, Lainbridge, was
dangerously w.ounded in the a&ion, a ball
having paffci through his arm and kreaft.
Capt. M'Lean yot fafe in at 6 o'clock in
the evening, to the great joy of a number
of fpe&ators, whose moments of anxiety
1 during the eor.teft, cannot be described.
On Thursday morning, the remains of
the boatswain, that so gallantly fell in the
aftion, were very decently interred, attend
ed by captain M'Lean and most of the sail
ors in the harbour ; minute guns were fired
on board the Polly.
At a diftrift court held at Newport, R. I.
the firft day of August, the (hip Hope, li
, belled for reporting (laves from the co.-.ft of
| Africa to a foreign port, was condemned,
and ordered to be fold in September next.
I
; BOSTON, Augijft 28.
1 Arrived schooner Bilboa, Stutfon,
j from Bourdeaux, in 35 days.
Capt. Stutfon is {aid to have brought
, GREAT NEWS That hostilities had
- commenced in Italy, between the French
: and Austrian armies ; —That the hopes
' of a speedy peace are entirely diflipated ;
} —That Buonaparte had been, fummon
t ed to Paris, to give an account of his
e dilapidation of the contributions levied
| on Italy ; —That he had replied, that the
e money had been appropriated to the best
of pmpofes, that of paying, cloathing,
and supplying the veterans of his legions ;
and that his soldiery had declared jhat
1, they would not part with him ; and ij
'* he tnujl proceed to Par:s, t.btj) ivoidd atcom
. patty him ; that the crpter of infurrec
n tion at Paris, threatened to involve
Frafic? with its defoy&fve lava ; and
that in rise {harp cdntefts between the T, «'
giilative Councils, and the Exceu'.:\;
Directory, tha former had prcvaiic.!--*
an event auspicious to the continued
tn-.nqidlity of the United States.
Mercantile Information.
From the CaKONicr.T.
Universal Liberty.
CSpe Fraoi'oi«, lit Thermidor, jrli
year of the French republic, ore
and inHlvifibli*.
Joseph Anthont Idlirtger, Civil Ordonnateu"
nf the northern department in the ijlandi
St. l)omin?o.
To Citizen Mozard, Conftil 6f the French
republic, in Bolton.
Citizen,
I feifce the Opportunity offered me by
citizen- —, who returns' to Ameri.-fl,
to desire you to encourage the merchants
residing in the different parts within your
consular precindt, to fend here salted PRO
VISIONS, that article being very scarce
now.
Our cultivation has been much improved
of late, and such merchants as would specu
late upon this objeft may depend upon a
real benefit.
Republican virtue, and close application tb
agriculture, are the order of the day amon<
the French of Kifpaniola, and th£ value of
colonial produce during the sth year, has
been tenfold to what it was during the
coutfc of the 4th. 'This is the true situa
tion of the department'intruded to my can:.
Greeting and Friendship,
(Signed) IDLINGER.
[Bitter experience has taught us that
invitations of this nature are only snares for
the credulous ; and any man wlio cati fore
go the opportunity now held out of procur
ing justice or revenge, and {hip out provifi
on3 to keep the monsters from the just chas
tisement which awaits their treachery, de»
serves every thing that csn befal h:m.
The good man Bache furnilh s a hoggish
anecdote, peculiarly applicabl" to this cafe.
It is a passage from the travels of Nicholas
Klymus (in Latin) through FJolland—
" It waa in the month of December, and
not far from' the feftival they call ChriftmaS.
In an early ramble on a cold frofty morning,
I chanced to take a Dutchman's farm in
my way. A hog-pen was adjacent to the
hou£e, a dirty, muddy, qmgmire place,
in which three of four of the swine were
ftraitly confined. The poor devils had been
so illy attended as to be half ftartftd, and
had not even a handful of straw to lie down
upon. They shivered with cold, and seemed
1 to fay to me, Traveller, compassionate on
our cafe and set us free !—I at firft faffed
1 by them with indifference, but refleftion
getting hold of me, of which I am eter
• nally the dupe, I returned, and at the risque
1 of the Dutchman's vengeance, ventured to
• put down a corner of the fence to let the
i poor frozen starved animals run a little at
; large—in doing this (I never shall forget
, nor f»rgive it while I exiil) one of the mi
, ferable wretches ran at me and cruelly bit
my hand at the moment I was setting them
free—Stay there then (said I) and be
, <1 d.»]
1 •■—*—«——"»***'*"—**■ l 1
f Biggins' "Specific
FOR TUB
PREVENTION AND CURF. OF THE
TELLOIf fEKEX.
1 TT'VF.R finis* this disease m.de such ravages in this
> JL_i city and New-York, the author has turned his
S ' attention to it* cau(e» and cure —The result of his
; fnqu ries has convinced him that the rcafon why so
1 j few persons recover from its attacks, are from its
i not being well underflood, and the confeqneut
" ! wrong method taken to cure it. He is perfiuied
3 i that the excefliive bleeiiigns and mercurial reatme.it
; ' nf the Faculty i' highly injurious, and that the on
j ' ly rational mode of treatment is'by the use of proper
I acids. Convince! of this he offers his Sperifif as a
certain remedy, if tflcd according to the direiftions.
To he had in bottles, at one dollar of tho
f inventor (7«. Higgis, Cherry flreet, two doers &-
' j bove Ni:rth flreet, (late manager of Jacltffcn and
r ! Co's Medicine Warthbufe, London); by J. Lt-
J No. a; 6.; W. Griffith, No. 177,7". Piam, N,o.
11, South 'Hard ftret t, T. Stiff, No. jj, New llreet,
'» near Vine (lre»t, and J. Vultt, i-v. jijßace llreet.
s Aog.ftj. swthi it
II , ■
To-be fold at Public Vendue,
n To the hlglieft bidder, at the Uoufe of; Mr.
T William Evans, the sign of the Indian
y Queen, in the city of" Baltimore, on the 25th
day of Oflober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
if About seven thousand acres of land,
e - the proptrty of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between UeifierVtown and Weftruinfter,
I commonly called Li tie WinchcSer, (the «urn
r pike road runs through a qonfidorable part of
" these lands) the traft begina about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a lew hundred yards
of said Re'ifter's-town, and the dif
[. tance of about twenty-three miles from Balti
-- more, and lies on the main falls of Patapfiro
,f river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
1 be fold in tra&s of one hundred and fifty to
' three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each tracft,
f >me of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine grifs.
Ai so
'' A traft of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles ot"
it Bladenfhtirgrf eDeemed very good for Grass.
, Richard Ponfonby,of will Ihew
this land to any person inclined to purch'afe.
h ALSO,
;s A traft of land of about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
' and a half o the PreTident'sJiOufe in the Fede
ral City. It is nearly albwoodjand, and a fine
is high profpedl, from which may be fcen the
, city of VVafhirgton, Bladenflaurgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles
ie down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Por.fon
n. by, of Bladeiilburg, will also ihew this land
' A liberal credit will be given for the greateO
5> oart of the purehafe money. Ihe terms wi 1
. be made known on the day of fide.
' Wav 8 , *3™
It " ;
if Act laying Duties' cn Stamped Vellum„
2- Parchment and Paper.
A FEW copies of the above aft may be h.ad at
"■ -he Office of the Gazette oU the Usited States, No
d 119, C hefnctrflrcst. Ja. ! y 19.Just pub]idled,
And to be fold at tlif Bcokftores of H. fa* P.
U'ce, No. Market-flreet 1 J. Ortorod,
No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, and V/. Young,
corner of Chcfnut and Sec«nd-fireets,
accurate Syitem of Surveying;
IN WHICH IS CONTA IN FD,
1. Decimal fra<slions, in a plain, concise,
eily manner.
i. Theextracflion ef the square root.
3. Plain trigonometry, reaangular and ob
lique.
4- An eXadl method to cast up,the contents
■of lands. j
S■ Field surveying. (
The "whole being performed without the use
of scale and compafles, on a table of logarithms,
hi which is given feme account cf the variation
ot the needle, and the causes of its attrailion.
By SAT4UEL MOORE.
T. llwitf
Georgetown bridge Company.
of an atH paified by the of
'the slate of Maryland on the 19th December,
179 i» entitled, "An eil for eredling a bridge
over Potowmac river.
'■ -Artibe it enaSed, that the said direilorj or
sjny tv/o ef them (hall and may require any sum
or Itims of money in equal proportion from each
and -every proprietor, as may from time to time
be iieceflary for carrying 011 Uie building of said
bridge ; and after givirjg three months public
it !Ll»«flIlay be lawful for the diredl-
for and' r»cove'r in the namo cf tbe
company such unpaid requisition, with all colls
and charges incidental thereto, anJ legal intefeft
thereon Iroin the time the fame lhould have
been paid : And the neglrCl or refufai so pay any
l'uch requifitfon after public notice shall have
been given at leafl for three months in all the
hewfpjpers herein before enumerated, shall have
the cfteifl tii forfeit all preceding payments made
on the (hare or shares so negledVd or relufed to '
he paid to the use and benefit of the company." j
maiion of luchof the ilocithold'ers as have not
coi.ip!ied with the requisitions heretofore made 1
as follow : On the ift November,!
J795> 10 dollars, on the 10th May, 1796, 40 :
dollars; an tbe 20th July, 1796, 40 dollars ; oti
the Ift September, 1796, 40 dollars, and on the
til November, 179(5, 60 dollar*. Caution it
fiow given that after theexpiration of the time
limited for the cc»tinuancc of this advertise
ment (three monrhs) the law will be carried
into rigid and complete effeA against all delin- J
queuts.
By order of theDiretflors,
V.'ALTAR SMITH, Tr.afur.r, \
/*f.°. r S e .t°wn, Mav I, 1797.
i
Just Received, !
From Batitvia (via Providence) <
a ftw Boxctof Spicet, confiding of <
Nutmegs, Clowes and mocc 1
For sal« by ]
KILLINGS & FRJNCTSt
Pehn.flrcet. 1
*ay J«f '
1
Davis s Law Book Store> 1
Na. 319, High* Street. '
GEORGE DAVIS, I
BEIN'O busied sot- fotrtc time past in ptbpara- 4
tfotis fir removing into hit pr#fent house, has
been under thenecetfityof podpomnguntil thlsd&y r
informing the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro' 1
the I'Hited Statet, that hit spring importation of
law books is noiv arranged and ready for (ale, on D
teims that he truftt will «ntitlehim to the like pre
frtence he has experienced for leveral years part.
Catalogue t, combining the not varied collec
tioneVer imported i<ito this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
, J une *7- law 6w J
City CommifTioners' p
TN f f 7"»e2i, i 797« t<
TN pursuance of an»rdinance from the felefl 1
J. and common couneilt, pafled the Md day of w
May lafl, appointing the commiffioners,
afud prescribing their dutiet, feflion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That th« city is divided into five diftriito,
®ach to be under thfc fuperintendance of one of
the city commiffionert, whoit to be individually
felponfible for the cleanlinel's of the fame, and
are as follow.
DrStridl No. t. Prom the south fide of Ce- n,
dar-fl reet, to the north fide of Spruce-fireet, un
der the fuperistendence of Nathan Boys.
i. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
"the north fide of Walnut-flreet, under the super-
Jihendence of Hugh Hoberts. 4 ,
3. From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide of High-street, under the fuperurtendence of _
Jofepli Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-street, to the
north fidr of Mulberry ftreef, under the fuper-i>>
infendt nee ef William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberry street to
the north fide of Vine-street, under (he super- i~l
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaningof High-street to be in common, fid
C 5" A stated meeting of tht city commilTion- W
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High- Sic
flreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock, as
July '4- eoim je<!
Stands for Draymen, &V. cd
tn purjuance of an Ordinance from tbeSelefl and "} c .
Common Council*,bearing date the lid day of t f''
April, 1797, providing for tbe appointment of
City Commissioners, Iffe. Seel, the 15th.
T'HE following p!»ces are fixed upon by the f f,
said City CiThimifiioners for Stands fur -| tJ
Driyinen and their Horses.
In Vine-flreet, eastward of Front-flreet, on ]
"both fides. ,1
Saflafras, High, Chefnut and Walnnt-fttreets, t^ii
eaflwird of Front-flreet, on the no.-th fide only. M (
Mulberry-flrcet, south fide fr®m Front to to
Third-street. ten
Front-street, eall fide from Vine-ftrcet to lie
Elfrith'* alley. "]
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horfeal- wit
ley to Hamilton's Hores, ea"(l fide. ren
Waler-flreet, weft fide from the,north end of 'h o
Stamper's or Mooit's llorcs to Pine-street. un<
Pcnn-flreet from Pine to 'Ceiar-flreet, weft ® e '
fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street, an^
Spruce, Pine ar.d Scuth llrects, ea ft .of Froat ir
street, south ltde.
Dock-street, between Walnut-street and the S
flag flor.e cvoffliigs, east fide, oppoiite Georire a s '"
Orklev's. ? '
Second-street, between SalTrfras and .Vine ,
streets, weft fide. cv ! cl
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul- j an
berry streets. j
Saftafras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-flreet,
cast fide - j
No dray or horse to Hand within ten feet of N
any pump. houl
SF4NDS FOR. HACKNEY COACHES. Tne ,
Pine-street, north fide from Fourth'to Fifth eee 'd
fireeM. Mr.
Pifth-ftrcct, between Chefnut and Walnut day :
streets, weft. trick
Branch-street, north fide,between Third and from
Fowrth streets, fame
July 14. mw&fim phia.
A LitfeF'sry Treat;
J'ifl pM'iJheil, handfomsly printed on writing
r ' paper, price I dc,llar,
' new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, entitled
'*£ l > FORESTERS, an American Tale ; being
JL a sequel to thehiflory of John Bull, the Clo
icife, . f r —IP afeiiesof letters to a friend, with the ad
dition of two letters, alluding to recant political
tranfft&ions in America,
oh- T^ s f(JI " wi "S eXtraiSt from the Clavis Allegorica,
(hews the principal cnara&ers that are introduced:
tents J ohn Bu!l,theKingdom of England
Hi, Mother, the Church of i. inland
His Wife, the Parliament
„ f „ His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick. Ireland*
nris. Lewis, the Kingdom of France
"on His Miftrtfs, the Old Conftitntion
•on- Hit ntw Wife, the National Rcprefentation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Iputch Republic
IV The FraJlts > tfle French Republic
* . Ihe Foresters, the United States of America
5 of Robert Lumber, ,New-Hampihire
er » John Codliile, Maflachufetts
idge Humphrey Plow (bare, Conneaicut
Roger Carrier, Rhode Island
s or Peter Bull Frog, New-York
sum Julius Caesar, New-Jersey
ach William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
in«e Caflimar, Delaware
said Walter Pipewood, Virginia
blic f"''® Grandson, George Washington
edl- Pctcr Piteh, North Carolina
the Charles Ir.digo, Soutk Carolina
oils George Trusty, Georgia
re ft Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
a Ve Honter Lor.gknife, Kentucky
13v Black Cattle, Negro Slaves
/ Rats, Speculator!
the Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobi«t^.
this popular and entertaining fatirieal hifto
e ry of Amtuica is attributed to the Rev. Dr.BEL-
f e j It Jiasa great (hare of originality and a
" i bounds with genuine humour. It is continued
</• | down to the present time, and ehsraAerifc* those
net late political tranfa&iont which have caused so
ide 1 much uneafineft in America,
er, i Sold by H. and p. RICE, Bookfcller, No. 16,
40 South Second Street, and No. 50, Marke' ftaeet.
on June 16.
j» LAW BOOKS,
Eateft London and IDublin Editions.
iei H. Iff P. RICE, Booksellers,
in- No- 16, South Second, and No. jo, Market llreet,
HAVE just received by the l ire arrivals from 1
London and Dublin, their ipriag imports- .
tiOT, confiding of a variety of (he latest and most
approved Law Books, whic'a. added to those alrea
— dy on hand, formt the mod eltenfive collection ev
er offeredfor sale in this country. They theiefore
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their
conuetSicns in Dublin, they afe enabled to fell Irlfh
editions (at they have hitherto done) it the very 1
lowed prices. The following are among the latad ,
publications.
Vefey, jun'rt Reports in Chancery, 3 *ol«. 1
Peake s Cases at Nift Prills ; Ridgeway's Reports i
in the time of Lord Hardwicka ; Floyer't Protfters ]
Pra&ice in the Eccfefiadifcal Courts ; Barton's ]
Tr<atife on a 9«it in Equity; Tidd'a PraSice of '<
the Court of King's Bench in Ptftfonal Anions, 2 j
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise ,
on Ufet j modern Reports, 11 vels. London edi- |
•a. Hon. {
as . and P. Rice c*pe<S te rective by the sirdar- 1
ity r,vo ' from New-York the (sth Vol. complete of I 1
„• Durnford and End's Reports, theadpattof Oil- I (
c f bert sLaw of Evidence by Loft, and a number of a
>n Dew pt> K "cati(ui».
ek June 26. L
c ihe History oi Pennsylvania, '
*1 Bv ROBERT'PROUD, a
T S now in the preft, and will be published, t
-*■ with all convenient expedition, by Zkcha- <
*iah Povlson, jiln. No. go, Chefnut-flreet, '
Philadelphia, where fuhfcrlptions will continue 1
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library, I
a according to tbe printed until the I
)f work is ready for the fubfcribcrs. - I*•
5, J u| y »8. aawtf | =
Printed Calicoes.
,\ I €
JOHNMILLER, Jim. & Co. I «
X No. S Cbcfnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFr, TRUNKS neatly aflbrted, very low on I '
> laort credit. I 1
March 6. I d
0 Richard and James Potter c
Have removed their Counting House to N«. ?
45, South Fifth-ftrcet. j "
1 u g uft *• w<tf6t 0
t t
Lane a Her, Harrijbiirgh CarliJle, I
_ t Sbtppenjburg and Sunbury v
,| STAGES.
THE public are requcded to take notice, that "
the partnerlhip which has f»r sometime sub- j ; r
■ fitted betweott Mathias Slough of Lancader, and I
■ William Geer, it now diffolred< but, not as M. 1
■ Slough insinuates to the public without jud cause ; j K
as will more fully appear by a letter on the sub- 1.,,,
]e<a from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th |tv
December last. a recital of which is not now deem- ! p|
ed necessary. Auy gentleman who wilhes to be w
r more circumflantially infsrmed of the merits of f a
r this bufineft, by applytng to W. Geer may have m
* fhepcrufal «f M. Slouch's letter, and then can be Is a
at full liberty to determine whether or not W. j m
Geer is not perfeflly judifiabie in attaching him- w
felf to any other person in the profeeutjon of the I C 1
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf- C o
urg,or any other place. I t j^
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the I sri
public were pleased to confer on the fird effort jn da
this bulinefs, VT illiam Geer, in conjunction with j
MefTrs. Reily, Weed and Wi-.mer, is determined I
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at- I
tcntion anddifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub- j
lie can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided "C
with carriages, horse*, and every appurtenance to I £
render the padage fafe and commodious, inform j na
those wnu Willi to patronize and encourage the an
undertaking, that they can take their feats at a t
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse, m;
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday f D j
and Friday, to proceed to Lancader, Harrifburg, /.
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
eflablifhed. I !n(
For the further accommodation ot the public " a '
a Stage will dart every Wednesday from the house' ? C '
of Sanutcl Elder, in Hirrifburg, arrive a? Sun- /
bury in Northumbexland county, every Thursday, j 0
and return from tlwoce and arrive at Hairifbtirg wh
every Saturday, so that paff?ngers dedined for ' Anc
Lancader or Philadelphia, may proceed an Mon- I r0
days. ' ' I wh
WILLIAM GEER. { car
Lancader. Jan. a;, 179,7. I wai
Nj B. This Line of Stages dnrts from ths I 111 ''
house of Wiliiam Fcrr»c, in Lancader, on every P ro
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro- j or '
cetding to the weft ward; and £rom the h&u'fe n f Ibe ;
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harr.fourg every Wtdnef- I
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa-
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and retulfcs but
from thence cn every 1 hurfday : performing the then
fame routine daily as m tour frcai Philadel-
P hia - mwf R
City of Wafhiilgtori.
'l>»8
J SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
cing For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A maguincentdv/clling-hou'fe 20,ooodollars,
tical & Cafll 30, ° 00 ' sre jo, s ooc»
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 25,000 40,000
rica, 1 d ! Uo 'i' ooo & C3{h 30,000
cec j.' 1 l ''tt° 10,000 U calh 10,000 30,600
1 ditto 5,000 St. cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000
i do. 5,000 each,are - 10,000
»o do. 1,600 ' 10,00 c
m 10 do. 500 - - 10,000
cao do. ioo - - 10,000
on I,l ° do. 50 10,000
400 do. i'f . . 10,000
1,000 do. 10 . - 10,
ts,OO® do. , 0 . 15e , 00u
u a
Priies.
33.161 Blanks.
50,000 Ticket!, at E:ght •ollart, 400,000
N. B. Tofivour thefewho may take a quan
t:ty of Ti*ets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the la st drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but one :
And notes, securing payment in either
mon«y or priacs, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received foi any number not left than ?o tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be ere&ed in the City of
v» afhington— Two beautiful defines are already
lelefied for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawings it ispropofed to ereS
0 tWo centre and r our corner loon as pof-
L fible after this lottery is fold, aud to ccnvey them,
a " when complete, to the fortunate adventursrs, in
' f t ' l -manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
1 e Lottery. A r.ett deduction of five per cent, will
0 be made to defray the necessary eipenfeV of priw
mg, &c. and the furplut will be made a part of
°> the fund intended for the National Univerlity, to
be ercifted within the city of Wafhingtcn.
The real fecuritiesgiven j«r the payniMit of the
Briaes, ire held by the Prcfident and two Dircfi
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
morethao half the amount of the lettery.
SAMUEL HLOD6ET.
.§« Tiekets may be had at the Bank of Cola*- '
:t, hia ; of Janres Weil & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter
m Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
a- and of Richard W«U», Cooper's Ferry.
mwf J
a- I
v- Frem the Otfego Herald. 1
re CAUTION.
'j* TT/HEREAS a combination of men in this 1 J
lh VV county have undertaken to enrich th«m- ,
T selves.by fabricating titles to sundry valuable trad# i 1
ft of land, the property of gentlemen living in New c
York, Philadelphia, London and Paris, for which \
«• traSs of hnd large sums of money have been paid f
t' to those fraudulent men, by innocent purchalers • i '
« It is therefore just that public information Atotild a
* ke given, to the end, that the injured may feekre- '
>' dress while the men have property, and are to be
1 found. Those who have been discovered are Tru- 1
fe man Harrifon, Joftph Witcomb, said now to re- '
1- flde in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and '
several o'hen who go under fictitious namps. It is
f- supposed that the lands offered Icr sale on those fa- j
1 hricated titles, are at least woi th fifty thotiland c
1- dollars. Such as we have knowledge of are ,
»f as follows : Lots No. II and 11, Otfeg« patent, f,
thousand acres each,the a&ual property of William :
Dellwyn, i.ow of London ; lots No. 58 and 64, c
fame patent, thousand acres each, the property of i'
Mr. Chaumont, now of Paris, and lamftsAvenll I
and others, ot this State. There is some grounds d
1, to suppose that the lands of Richard Wclis and
k _ Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are utv'er their
:, management.—The Printers will do well to give b
e this a place in their papers, as well to caution the I
■, PuMc against purchnfmg those lands, as also to de- ; Cl
e prive those men in future from imposing on indivi-
duafs, which their education and addrels have en- •
abled them to do heretofore. Witcomb has been
a fhopketper of some note in this country.
The following affidavits will fct in a clenr point r(
of 'lewthe wickcdncfsof those men,which when tl
the public have perul'ed, wilt induce them to ex- h;
cufc the interference of Wm. COOPER.
O'frgo, July aßth, 1797. w
I rhomas Kelly, of the County of Otfego, hav- tr
n ing been led into an error, by John Witcomb and if
I ruman Harrifon, of the fame County, to figp a
deed to them, for lot N'o. 58, Otfego patent, which
- was the property of William T. Franklin now Mr.
Chamont's and others; ind further the said Joseph E<
1. * Truman did persuade me to do this againit my V
inclination, which was made ont on the icth day
of November, 1793, or fct back two ynrs so as 0
_ to bring it to that time ; end further the name of "
Pardon Starks to that deed was a iiAitious nans, ,
• there being 110 fitch perlon there. Tofhis Lmake b (
voluntary oath. THOMAS KELLY. Ic
19th July, 1797. ' t0
On the 19th July, 1797, came perfooally before of
me, 1 homas Kelly, thi subscriber to the above as- hi
' fidavit, and made solemn oath that it contains noth
• ing but the truth.
1 ELIHU PHINNEY, Jufticeof the Peace. -
_ On the lifch July, 1797, «me before me Jacdb
■ Kibby, a person by me'Wdl known and worthy of y
'good credit, who on hi# solemn oath did fay, that
' two of the parties abovementioned did make ap- ,
plication to him this deponent, some time in the \
' winter of 1796, to make them a deed for two thou
' sand acres of land in ( the Otego patent, and pro- co
mifed this deponent a (hare of the profit?, on the P r
sale of said lands, for his so doing ; and that they 1 P"
made application several times for the fame purpo e', I
which iervices this deponent as often refufed, de
daring to them that he had no right to lands, and P°
could do no such thing ; which daring attempt on ihi
thisdaponent's integrity he had related among his m;
friends several times, previous to making this all- in)
davi <' JACOB KIBBEY. aci
Sworn before me, of
ELIHU PHINNEY, Jufticeof the Peace.
iaW4w.
I hirty Dollars Reward.
Tj 1 LOPED from the service of the subscriber,
' on the 19th instant, a negro man by the J}(
name of DICK, about twenty-five yirars of age,
and five feet nine or ten inches high ; by trade
a carpenter, and is a very lively brisk work- C"
man. His countenance is very good—When
spoken to, he converses with ease and confi- ps
dence, aud is pretty sagacious. I purchal'ed .
the said fellow of Mr. Dubney Miner, in whose P.v
name be has been advertised m the Hichmond i
newspapers. During his lalt runaway trip (last
summer) hewas enjployeda considerable length C j
oftime, by some person near Dumfries, from p 1
which circumllaucc, I conjeflure, he has taken !•
another notheni route 1 forewarm all persons ' e '
from giving him employment, of any Jtind t
whatever, and msftrersof vcflelsand others, from n
carrying him out of this state. The above re
ward will begiven if he is taken within forty "i"'
miles of this city; and an additional sum, in °
proportion to the distance he may be brought,
or the trouble and expence the apprphender may ni ;
beat, in bringing him to this place. P
AUG; DAVIS. C J
N. B. His apparclwas of the usual negro kind, Ajp
butb? had more deaths than is customary for
them to pofiefs. . s T
t,- , - A- 15 ' B :
Kithuaoad, Jans 11, Ju
J Will be Landed,
Frcm onloard the snip Adive, Capt. Blair,from
Hamburgh,
29 bales white Rufila clean Hemp
1 caiks Clover Seed
. For Sale by
lars, Thomas Herman Leuffer,
"000 North Filth ftrcet, No. 34.
,00 0 , TBn ? <
Z William Blackburn,
000 I.OTTERT and BROKER'S OFFICE
000 No. 64 south Second flreet.
000 r l ICKETS in the Canal Lc.tery, No. If, which
000 commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR
00c S ALE. The price of tickets will rife in progor.
oon tion as the dr wing advances, particularly orrac
-000 " unt of the fi ve firft. drawn tickets, ptizes (if
000 iour thourand dollars each, 011 the last day ot
oon
ndo <--' beck Books kept for examination and regifter
-000 in the Canal, No. 2, City of Wafhmgton, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets for falc in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perk omen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the course of the summer.
1 he business of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
'Of Bills, Notes, Lands, &c-&c. tranfafted with the
utmost a;tentk>n.
"be - J " ne 4 - tn&f
lit Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED, ,
By ROBERT CAMPBEtL & Co.
'l' No 40 South Second street,
c * [Price 31 Cents]'
, of A View of the Caiifes and Confequen
of ces of the present War with France.
7 By tbe Honorable Thomas Isskine.
efl f 1
m, STATE TRIALS. J
in Sold by W. Young, Bookseller, No. South Se- 1
tel cond-ilreer, (
111 Ihe Pemifylvania State Trials, 1
u s OONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acquie
t °f Judge ps <hc Court »f
Admiralty, and J«hn Nicholfon, Comptroller Ocn- '
era! In on* large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, J "
dollars. '
a w - Yowng has for sale, a general assortment of
Bboks. Alio, Stationary, retail and fcy the pack
ege, weli allorted, and entitled to the drawback if f
s _ »xp»rted. Jnly 7—' a
rHE SUBSCRIBER having been appointed fey t
the Envoy Extraordinary and Minitter Pleni
potentiary of his Britannic Majelly, General Agent
lor aflifting Briiiifc creditors, and futh particular a
gents at they may specially authoriie, in ptofecuting _
their clairoi before the c»mmiflioiier» for carrying in
-1 to effeft the fi*th article oi the Tutty of Amity, Cm
,s rrurrct and NgvifaHen between bis Britannic S'tjcfly and r
| the United Stitu of America, hereby gives ndtice that
is Ihe has opened his office at his house the south call h
w corner of Chefnut and fifth ftiscts, Philsdelphia, n
h where he is ready to receive all claims or iDtirufiions .1
J | for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the purpose of bringing fpi ward thefameayee. ,
Id ablv ft the rules and orders which the board may J
c . think proper to preferibe. t<
, e And as it will be for the intcreft of all concerned, -
j. th,t the several claims be so (luted, and support- t<
( d, as to prevent the delay which wpuld arise from lc
j the necessity of obtaining further information, <* ad- it
. ditional materials,fiom per lops rcfiding al adiftance, jl
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (far the
■ direflion chiefly of those, who, not having empjoy- \
rd particular agents, may leave the prosecution of
e , their claims to his charge and management J that all
t, such claims ought in particul»rto set (ortli
« ill. The proper description and fitnation of the -
1, creditor or claimant, and original debtor, refpefl
>f ively. ,
,1 1 ad. The date andnature of the dfigiiial contrast oi
ls debt. * T
d 3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent, I
r the creditor or claimant w.s prevented or imijeded, ye
e by the provision, ope»ation 0/ deleft of law, the re
e I decifioniand praftice of courts, or reflraitat of exe- ha
. i cuttoa, from reoovering payment of the debt in an
qurftion.
4th Thelgfsand damage incurred or sustained, aE
" in confequente of such impedimenls, whether the c |,
fame may have arisen from tbe infolvenev, change of 1
fuuation, or death of tbe debtor, the loss of legal .
{ remedy from lapse of tame, or otheroaufes impairing [ a
1 the value and fecurityof tbe debt, which would not J!"
- have so operated if such impediments had notexifted.
Andjih The particular grounds and reasons on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of (he 'j l
- treaty, that " bythe ordinary oourfe of judicial pro-
J ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and aaually
hi»c and receive full and adequate compenfatioa*' lor "Tc
1 the loifes and dtmegea so fuflanyed, wt
The general agent think, it his doty further tofug-
geft that the several claims ought to be accompanied
, and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly attelled, botb as to the exilfence V
of the debts claimed, and such other circumftanees I
as may be within their own knowledge reipefftively. era
And wherever the claimants in fluting the nature cf fid
» their evidence (which mull in every inilance be the ro
best of which tbe cafe is capable) have occa&on tp r
icfer to tbe teHimony of witneifes, it will be proper
to apprise tbe general agent of the aemes and places ,
: of refidetice of luch the faflito be efta- ""
bliflied by their teflimony. Sa
}Vm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June 81 ii. J
For Sale, pu
7'hat well kntwn plate, called V/tNDtGßifj's '' ir
Fitly, irt
ON Nefhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York p,oft road, ___
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the I
premises are a large two ilery flone house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one ltory stone kit- —,
! chen, a large frame liable with ago rid threshing f
floor, and lome out buildings—-alio a. well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On ant
this place is a moll elegant situation fora g«atle- ar , c
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefliam- C ry
iny toitsjundlion wiih the Delaware, and thence of
across to the Jersey (bore. It has the privilege and
of one half the toll received from the bridge. fw<
For terms apply to the SnMcriber, hiir
MORDECAI LEWIS. jud
y =»V 24. cd,
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies. f
MRS~GROOMBHID<3£ with m*ch pleas- unc
ureand refpeifl, rttarns her fitjeere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement rslUl
(he has received during four years refiden«e in S
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the _
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, Ihe has matle a superior arrangement for -ps
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of uftful and polite |[u „.
education is particularly attended to by Mrs. fj yc
Groombridge and ma'flsrs excelling in their
refpedlive profclTions.
! Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets. a ., j
June sth, x 797. Jipafrf clon
The fituatlon is perfeifllr healtiy ; and made f 3li j
more agreeable by an, extensive garden and lot g;j' K
"f ground adjoining the house.
fiijl Publi/hed, p'" n
And to be had of Meflrs. DoV>fon, Campbell,Rjce, '
Cary, and the ether pricipal Bookfcilers in the JL" 1 "
city,pries one dollar, twenty-five cent*,in hoards, '
New VieHvs of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, M. d.
June »0. '£( Jy
No. 183.
.from Difmli of Pernrfyhama, to wit .
L. s. REIT REMEMBERED, that oh t
JU> fifteenth day of jJne, in the twen
firft year of the Independence of the Unit,
Jam>s Woodhoubf,
!4- tlt of t ' l ?' h . a,!l d^P ofited tf'i' sffice ti
title of a book, the right whereof he claims
—, author, in the words following, to wit •
«l" The r>T ? C . i,eralll ' s P °<*" Comparjio
TP T , be ' n - ? - a . Ddcri P tl? -« of a Portable Labaritbr
!Li ' ' containing a Phi|ofophkal apparatus, and
vt. « great h" 1 "' 1 " of Chemical Agents, bv whit
r 'o „ a "y j. ierfon ,ria y perform an erdlefs variety ,
nor- « Experiment,, defig,
lac- « * I j U ' e ° f lad ' CS aud ? ent !emen, ar
nf << ' mendfd }° the cultivation of tl
rot ! C,e ' ; " ° f Chemistry in the United States ,
By James Woodhouse, M. I
fter- P |? r Cherr - ijir y, in the University c
No. " Prefidem of the Chemical A
" cictv of Philadelphia, &c.
a "d „ " At j pr*f™t n wy thing that is not denom
egin nj ted Chemiflry, is but a small part of afy
" tem of natural knowledge
ock, Pritflly on Air"
i the 1° conformity to the a<H of the Cotigi ess of th
United States, intituled, •' AnStf for the encoui
agerafcit of Learning, by securing the copies t
maps, charts, and books to-the authors and pre
prietore of such copies, during the times tber<
1 inmentiqoed."
„ SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of th
A \ Diftriil of Pdnnfylvania.
J'% »* <j,u—wstf
u. Np* 188.
lyyiria of Pcttnfylvania, to nj'rt :
(L. t.) "R E "" B-EM£MBERtD, that on th
XJ twenty ftxth day of July, ia the twen
ty lecond year of the independence of t,he Unitet
0 ; ta i tS .° t /! I,eri f 2 ' J° HM P«nko, of the raid dif
' " r ■ ."ath deposited in thisoffice the.titje of 3 book
right whereof he claims as proprietor, in th
9 words following, to wit :
nit- " OMervations on certain documents containei
t b ( " ,n N »- v and VI. of "The Hidory of thsUeit
cu- " States fofAfi year 1796," in which the chai a,
5,3 "°' 'P fclllUlOTl ' »gainst Alexander Hamilton, hi
" Sectary of the Treasury, is fully refuted
fof | Written by himfelf '
ck . | In conformity to (Tie aA of the Congress cf th
cis | Ucited States, emituled, " Ad nit for the eiiceur
agement of learning, fey feevring th« copi.s el
maps, charts and books to the authors an<? p ropri
~ etars of such copies, during th« times therein mru
B .y tioncd."
"„ t SAMUEL CALDWELL,
a- ' Clerk the Dijirift tf JPenrfylvan'us.
f>g 27, j w4W
m- Public Notice is hereby given,
ird HA I at Juneterm, 1797, a pctitioa w?i
*3 P r s ren,e<llo the c °«rt of Common Pleas,
ait held st York Town, in the State of Penitfylva
ma, at the Hiftance sis James Short, praying
the Court to fu PP'y a 'oft «l«d made by
tain Andrew Hickenluber, to Hugh Mon ifon,
'•y r, eE °^ ri ' or> ' John Sample, execytars
to Hans Morrif.n, deceased, for (1* hundred
acres of Land, situate in Menallen
rt- townlhip, in the county of York .-—All per.
>m lons who have any objection* to tnake to the ofc
d- jeA of the fjid petitio» are desired te attend at
*•> the Court H»»fe, in the town of York, an the
v V h , da y, of Srp» er nber nest, otherwise the loft
> of deed will be supplied.
all JOHN EDIE, C!wk.
, eotS^
he '
*; 3° Dollars Reward.
RAN away on laft. two indentedSer<
vants, Oil Ford Ually, a mulatto boy. about x 7
i, years of age, a Aim light huilt asive felled, can
ic read and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
e- has a heavy countenance; had on a fufti»n coatee
in and trowftrs, a high crowned hot, fjpe fljoes &c.
Allan Hellons, a black ma*, about 14 years of
a. age, five feet seven or eight inches high,a thick set
of , , kuilt fillow, particularly about the breech;
a l had on a fiailor's blue jack«t lined with fwanlkin',
dark striped vest, fuftian troiyfers, high crowned'
* hat, coarse fboe s See.; each of them had fevcral
j, i"irts and fevcral other cloathes with them. Thir
in jy dollars will be paid for the runaways, or 15 dol
ie » rB or and reasonable cSharges, on deliverine
tiiemat No. J4, North Third-ftrest.
'•1 Ihe Wack fellow is about » yerar from Lewis
,r Town, in the County pf.Suffe*, ft ate of Dela
ware, and has taken the boy with him.
!- J°ly'si. mtnlrftw
; cAu r 1 O
■e Richard Lakh has been at^
:s V> tempting to fell a certain mefluage or tcn
- . ement and lot of ground, situated on the fbutfe
f fide of Vine-fltr<et, in the tity of Philadelphia
cotitaitiing in breadth, on Vine-street. Dateen
® feet, and in depth, fouthward./eveuty five feet,
beunded on the norrfi fide by Vide-ftreet, on
the east by ground late of Samuel Rhodes'and
Sarah his wife, en the south by ground late as
John Pemberton, and on the weft by another lot.
then about to be granted to Jofepb Hulings—
- This is therefore to Caution all perfuns against
purchasing the above described property, the
s fame having been mortgaged by the said Uisli
ard Lake to WiiWim Spad^.
SARAH SPADE.
1 „ [A eoiw
I Mujical lnjfrument Manufactory,
No. 1-67, Arch-Street.
HARPER.harpsichord, grand, poftahle grand,
lidi-board, pier table and square piano for*;
' maker frora London, returns thairks to his friends
and the public, for then liberal encouragement,
" and hopes that by his affifluity and attention to ev
ery branch of his buCnefs, tonserit a cortinuanco
of their fa vers. Piano series made on thi newett
■ and most approvfd plans, with pedals, patent,
fwcU, and French harp flop, which he tUtteis.
himfelf will be found cn trial by unprejudiced
judges«to bcetfual if not fuperiorto any import
e<l, aDd twenty per cent cheaper. Anyin!)ru
mant pnrchafed of him, if not approved of i«
twelve months, he will e*cha«ge.
N. B. All kinds of Music.l indrutnents maeU-.
uned, and repaired with the grtatfft accuran
dispatch, and on the moil reaknable terms t.*
ready money only.
fiaconi Piano Forte. t*kesa in ei change
Ma m. 0
Forty Dollarb Reward.
O AN away from the fnbfcriber 011 the fct»
V ° nd d,i) this infl-;l Mulatto Man,
1 named Wilt Bowser, abort forty years of age,
live fleet seven ar eight inehes' high, rather
chunky made ; had 00 when he went awav, a
drab colored cloth coat, ifriped purple trowfers
and jacket. It is probable he will change his
clonthes, as he took a number with hiin. C The
fai.l felfow formerly belonged to Mr. Charles
Bhke of this place; and it is expefled he has
made towards Neck-, in the Delaware
State.—Any person apprehending the ftiid fal
low, and securing him so tiiat I can get him r
g?.in, ft. "I receive the above reward if take'n
ifcitof the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
the county, and ail reasonable charges if bro't
home.
JESSE REED,
Queen Ann'» County, Mandapd.
J«ly3. ' v *