of tue States, -o Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1485.]
For St. Thomas, I i
fc—THE SHIP
Ann ant * iviar y>
Captain Bill is ;
WILL fail in ten days. For I
freight or passage apply to
F, COPFINGER.
No. 221, South Front Jlreet.
June 9»- < : * diot
F° r Sale,
ACT i V B, j J
On (],j aotli inft. at the Coffee* j
hoofc, at? o'closJt, P. M, as ihe canie from lea: .
ihe is known to be a faft falter. Any paiticular in. I
formation way be had on application to-Capt. Bing- I
ham on hoaid said brig, at Me IT. JelTe and Robert
Wain's Wharf, to John Pbnkinhoro, or Thomas j
Stewart. l«*<entory«o be seen and terms of pay- j
snent to be made known at th« time of sale.
Jane 8. j
For London,
Hgjgl wjllTJaT'penx, j
Jamrs 'fastah, Mqfler.
WILI, fail with all convenient speed. For
ireight or paflage apply to
JeJJe & Robert Wain. r .
May 19 ' § iAt
For Sale,
The cargo of *he brig Entlrprrze, Captain
I.angJvn from Bourdeaux, now landing at 4
Morton's wharf, 1 w;
CONSJTING OT
sj,j hhds. of Claret ] 2 a J
11; cases of ditto I"2 « !i!
100 cases of Sweet Oil r|s "j a
l.c pipes London proof > BRANDY. I | 2 at
10 pipes of Holland pqxif ) J of
A pply to _ I
Wharton Ss 5 Lewis, 1 _
No. 115, South Front St. I
Said Brig,
Weft-Indies or Etirope, fails
fift, burthen about fifteen hun- "j
barrels, is in complete or- I
<!er, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a I so
few days
Apply as above. I F ;
May 14 §_
For Sale or Charter, 1
! THE SHIP
WARREN,
fisSteßenjamin Church, Maflcr. I
OF about 180 tons burthen. En- I
Jeffe & Robert Waln-
May »6 § I
JohnTarris, matter. I
A GREAT part of her cargo is engaged, and
(he will fail in ten days. For freight or pal- a
sage apply to capt. Tarris, at Willings & Francis'
wharf, or to GURNET & SMITH.
May 25 5
tor Freight or Charter,
To any part of Europe,
The Swed'ifh Ship
Alexander Magnus, <
Capt. Carl O. Ehsman,
Pi BOUT tons burthen, in this port ; and 1
A also the Danilh Ship FREDERICK JULIUS J
KAU3, of 450 tons, now lying in Ha.«pton Roads.
Apply to JOHN VAUOHAN.
M.iy 26. tuthf6t 1
1—- For Freight or Charter,
i llllh?- Brig Fame,
4 FRANCIS KNOX, Maftcr :
A strong, excellent vessel, has been jull (heathed and
ready to receive a cargo. She will carry a,OOO bar-J :
rels, has good accommodations so passengers.
Apoly to
Capt. Knox, or to
Kearny Wharton.
June 6. 6 J?
Houfhold Furniture.
NOW felling by private iale, No. 17 Dock
ftreet— confiftingei chairs, tables, looking
glaffes, bureaus, hand and fire irons, bedftoads,
feather-beds, carpets, bedding, window curtains,
bed and table linen, kitchen furniture, &c. The
•whole in good order, and has only been a few
months in use.
The sale to continue daily 'till the whole is fold.
June a §
This Day is Published,
Aud fold by H. & I. Kam merer, jun. No.
24, North Third-fired, also, by Mr. Hen
«r StvEirzEß, No. 85, Race-fired,
(Price half a Dollar neatly bound)
The Man of realSenfibility ;
•Or, The HISTORY OF SIR G. ELLISON.
Founded on FaCl.
s3* The elegant Edition of the Elements tf Moral.
-,ty, in two volt, illustrated with twenty copper
plates, may iHo be had a i above, price, full bound
and silt, two dollars and fiftf cents.
H & I. K junrs. have on hand I qaanty of No. 1
and z Writing Paper.
;-w 8. <-"3"
HAY.
\ Quantity of excellent Old and New Hay to
jfxbchadat Peel Hall Farm on the Wiffahickon
Head, about 1 miles from the City.
Also, A QUANTITY OF BUILDING STONE.
June 8
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the City—
OF FURIOUS SIZES,
Fiom 8 bv 6 to igtby 14,'
By the (ingV Bo* or.Quawi'.y, may be had at the
S ore of ibe Subscribers, corner of Arch and Front
firect.
James C. ly Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, J "«r J, '7s7'
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, JUNE 12, 1797.
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & id proof, , nt
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes dei
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds da;
Old Hock, in cases of 4d dozen each to 1
Glaft Tumblers, in pints and half-pints to
Window Glass, in boxes, of different size* si"
Hazlemits, infacks
Whiting
™Z ? "V a > in hhds
White Lead C
& Spanish Brown J
For Sale by
PETER BLIGHT. Co
January 4 th<
Rofs & Simfon, of
k Have for Salt, |, v
A «lUANTITY OF PRIME
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lilbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine, „
In Madeira Calks
A few Quarter Chests best -
Fresh Hyi'on and ) XE4S
Hyfcn Skin )
Muscovado Sugars in Hogiheads, and
■ Coffee in Tierces
March 7. H'rf
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
At the Merchants' Coffee he use, in Philadelphia,
on the 15th day of June, .at 8 o'clock in the
evening, if not before disposed of at private
sale,
40,931 1-2 acres of land, on the
waters of Wheeling and Fishing creeks, in Wash
ington county, Pennsylvania. The foil is remark
ably feMile ; andhefides a large body of meadow,
there are considerable improvements on the pre
mifes. These lands were patented in 1787. On
payment of part of thepurchafe money, a reason- _
ablti credit will be given for the residue. Enquire
of the printer.
May 15. §tS
Richard Bay ley & Co.
Late John Whitesides & Co.
No. 136 MarketJlreet %
HAVE received per the (hips William Penn and
Star from London, a large and falhionable af
fortmentof the following articles : viz.
Chintzes, and printed Cottons, of the newest
patterns 1
Fumitnre Dimities and Chistzes
Ginghams, plain and figured,
Muslins, printed and embroider'd
Do. tambour'd, plain, check and ftrip'd
Do. tamboHred, of a very superior quality c!
Fine Book, Jaconet and Decca Handkerchiefs f
Dimities and muflinets
Damask table-linen, in setts and in the piece
Diaper ditto in Cloths and in ditto
Holland and Ruflia Shettings
Loop'd Hollands and Irish Linens
Long Lawns and Cambrics £
Sattins and Silks, plain and figured j
Ribbons sOid Gloves t
Crapes and Gauzes
Straw, Chip, and Paper Hats and Bonnets, new
{hapes
Fancy trimmings, &c.
With a variety of articles in the Linen-Drapery
and Haberdalhery line.
May 22 § a ot
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Chefimt-Stteet,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly afTortcd, very low on
(hort credit.
March 6. §
PennfylvaniaPopulation Company,
NOTICE is hereby given to the Share Hold
ers, that a further affefffnent of NiN G dol
lars is levied oa each share, payable as follows,
viz.
Six Dollars immediately, and
Three Dollars on the i»l of July next.
Which they are requefled to pay to the Treasu
rer of the Company, at the Company's Office,
No. 53, North fourth-ftreet, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
> informed, that on their neg)edling to pa the
fame as above direiSed, the ft vera'forfeitures
will be exaded.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MAKACHE, Treasurer.
May 17. djot
Just Arrived,
. In thefchooner Dove, Captain Pan!, from St
Thomas, and for sale by the fubferiber.
i, Muscovado Sugar in hhds- tierces and barrels.
1, St. Croix Rum in hhds. v
e And Lagtiira hides.
V ALSO OS HAND,
Imperial, Hyson, and Sherry and Malaga
'• Hyson Skin Teas. Wines.
Yellow Nankeens. Holland Gin in pipes.
Canton Cloth. Do. Cheese.
Lutestrings. Do. Glass ware.
'• Silk Hankerchiefs. China Ware,
r- Sewing' Silk. Window Blinds.
Cotton in bales. Rheubarb.
Peruvian Bark. Quicksilver, &c.
JOSEPH SIMS.
M 3 y d'4t.
Grattan and Comp.
r '_ Efpeftfully inform their friends, that they have
l( j I,V imported from London per the fliip Star, a
large affortmeat of
, PERFUMERr,
Which is now opened for sale at their House, N«.
19* Market-street.
Also, * new afToitiuent of 'ready-made gentle
men's linen, (hirts from 1 dollars each to 8 dollars,
&c. &c. &e.
t0 Ladies and gentlemen are accommodated with
3n board and lodging at ten Dollars each.
Tnofe CJaitiemen who have their own private
lodgings, may be accommodated with dinner only,
by t'.c week or month
June s -
io The Subscriber,
Determined to retire from buGnefs, invites all
who have aji*-' i*ore, bill, bond or accept.*ice
of hi., now due, to call for payment ; anil those
he who wilh to anticipate may receive the money
st * it a reifonable dlfccuut.
JAMES SWAN.
May 11. "l»w.
Dorcheft r, ccfrgofto-9, 16th May 1797.
By John Fenno, N°* 119 Chefnut Street.
NOTICE.
■ THE eo-partnerfhipof WilliamYovi"*, John Mills, Fi
and John aMi:!*, jtin. Bookiellcrs and Stationers, un
der the firm of W. Young, Mills and Son, is this
day diflolved by mutual co nfent. \ll persons indebted
to the copartnership arc requefled to make payment
to William Young, and those having demands are dc
fued to pioduce their accounts lor settlement.
Wit Ham Toting,
John Mills,
John Mills, jun.
Philadelphia, June 6th, 1797-
W. Y O U N G
Contituci the bookselling ai\d ftationa*y business at
the usual place, wholesale and retail, where he hat
now a very large aflortment of
Writing and Printing Papers and 800 fa,
Of which catalogues with the prices affixed aie de
livered gratis-
Wanted,
A person well qualified in the book felling and sta
tionary buflnefs. Applications will be receivrd till
the firft July next, at No. 51, south Second-street,
corner of Chefnut-fircct. .
June 6.
The fubferibers, have for sale, the "
following Goods, viz : {
OLD Madeira Wine, in pipW.
Port do. in pipes, hogiheads & qr. casks.
Malaga do. in hogiheads and qr. calks.
Sherry do. in quarter calks. <-
Claret do. of excellent quality, in bottles. ■*
Ruflia Duck.
Do. Diaper and Huckaback.
Coarse Toweling. -I
Iling Glals, firft fort. h
Ruflia white Soap, cut in finall bars. n
Mould Candles, in boxes of 6olb weight. c
London Porter, in bottles? r<
100 barrels of good beef. '1
A wrought-iron Book'CaJe. h
PHILIP?, CRAMOND & Co. tl
Philadelphia, 2d June, 1797.' d. n
c
Just Received, )
From Batavia (via Providence)
170 Sacks of Java Coffee of firft quality j,
100 half sacks do. do.
a few Boxes of Spices, confilling of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace .
For sale by
HILLINGS & FRANCIS, J
Peniwftreet. b
May 30 dtf a
Pennsylvania Population Com- I
pany. ' (
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sbarehold- £
ers, that a further afleffment of fifteen *■
dollars is levied on each share, payable in the 1
following instalments —viz.
One quarter immediately. '
One quarter on the ift of June.
One quarter qu the ift September.
One quarter on the ift Dec. next.
' Which they are requested to pay to the Trea- 1
surer of the Company-at the Company's Office,
Np. 53 north FourJi street, agreeably to the >
times above mentioned ; and they are further '
informed that on their neglefling to pay the 1
fame as above directed, the several forfeitures 1
direifted by the Constitution, will! be exa&ed. '
By order of the Board, 1
SOL. MARAOHE,
Treasurer.
May 15 sim
To be Sold,
A large and convenient
Three Story Brick House {
SITU aTE at the north-east corner of Arch and
Fourth-streets. It contains eighteen roooss—
and is in every refpe& well finiftied. For particu
lars enquire of
, M. Keppele,
No. 138, Chefnut- f rreet.
May 31. §
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
- No 40 South Second street,
fPrice 31 Qentsj
A View of the Caufm and. Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskin*.
Mgy t s §
Maurice Moynihan,
No. 81, North SecondJlreet,
A few doors above Arch-street,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
for wholesale or retail, on the lowest terms, a
affortment ef Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
tumblers, plain and flowered quart, pint, half pint
gill and half gill do. cxadfc measures, decanters and
wine glaffcs ; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint
a bowls, and china in sets and separate ; pocket
bottles : Schuyikill and Jersey country quart and
s * half gallon.bottles ; Dry Goods, &c. &c.
N. B. Crates put up with care at the Ihorteft no
lice.
May 11. dtf
' JOHN CRAIG
i TTAS just imported from Rotterdam, via St.
JTI. Thomas, and for sale on reasonable terms
by the package
Platiljas Royal
Haerlem and German linens
» e Rouens
a Poll and Pro Patrii Paper
Wafers
Quills
•• Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles
Coffee Bags
He has also for Sale,
rs ' Best Red Clover Seed
th Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use
Ter.eriffe Wine of firlt and fecoird Quality
ite Coffee in Bags and Hogiheads
ly. Jamaica Spirits
Connecticut Turpentine Soap
_ Window Glass
Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Cotteu
al | Hosiery
lce April 18. 4' ur
D e f ; WANTED,
A BOUT aco ton? of freight, for any port
A in Spain, er the Mediterranean in a neu
tral bottom. Enquire of JAMES YARD
Juae 7. 7'
NOW LANDI NG,
From on board of the fliip G'cORGE EAR
CLAY, Capt. Charles M'AlkSter, from
Calcutta, the following GOODS, viz.
Ceflas Punjum Cloths ;ir
Hummums Gurrahs
Guze- nalis Indii Calicoes j n
EmertKs Cotton Checks •
Mamoodi-s Mulmuls g t
Sahans Red and Blue Bern*gou
hkfs e |
Tickeries Patrta do. ar
Jollas Santipoye do. q
Carridarries Plain, striped and flower-
ed fine muslins
Maragunges Ginghams , Ir
Baf:as, variQUs (orts Ta£feties
Sattin Romals Bandanno red hk*.
ALSO, ]
300 Caflcs Sugar a j
40 Boxes do. n(
165 Bags do.
70,000 lb. weight heavy black Pepper
40,000 |b« weight Ginger
20 Tons Hemp in Bales
9 Pipes East-India Spirits
For sale by PHILIPS, CRAMOND tfCo.
May 4. <l'f
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
{ Neatly bound and lettered, price i dols. cts.)
By G. DECOMBAZ,
BOOKSELLKR & STATIONER, 1
No, 4S, North Third Street, ' J
Ibe Adventures of Telemacbut.
J gi
French and Englilh, a vols. umo. r
AMONG the books which daily fall into the
hands of the veuth of both fcxes, none
hive a higher clainl to their attention than Tele
machus. The m.ift interesting lessons are here u
conveyed in the vehicle of an intere'tingf Poem. f<
replete with the iincft touches of the true pa- »i
the tic, and embelifhed with ail the graces of a 0
beautiful style. The fatal effefU of indulging
the paflions are ejfemplifie(i in the molt linking 0
manner; and the happiness atteiding inno- v
cence and virtue painted in the livelielt colours. Q
Whatever can incite to virtue or deter from v
vice ; whatever can enlighten the understand- f'
ing, charm the imagination, and improve the
heart, is to be found in this interesting work.
THE NAVAL "GAZETTEER; "
Being a complete Geographical Dictionary, „
containing a full and accurate account, alpha- „
betically arranged, of all the countries and ill- ><
ands in the known world ; Ihowing their lati- ■<
ude, foundings, and stations for anchorage ; «.
with a particular description of the feveralßays, 0
Capes, Channels, Coves, Creeks, Currents, '<
Gulfs, Harbours, Havens, Lakes, Oceans, Ra- <«
ces, Rivers, Roads, Rocks, Sands, Shoals, "
Sounds, Straits, Tides, Variation of the Com- "
pass &c. Together with a particular relation "
of the fliape and appearance at sea, of the fev«- "
ral Headlands, Isthmuses, Peninsulas, Points,
Promontories, and whatever is of use or impor- (
tance to the Matter, Pilot, Commander, or J
Seaman ef any lhip or vessel, in navigating the i
watery element. _ ,
Also Comprehending ,
Ample Direilions for laihng into or out of the ,
different Ports, Strait*, and Harbours of the ,
four quarters of the world ; and for avoiding ■
dangers on the vari«»s and extended coalts 5 in c
whieh more than twelvethoufand diftinft names 1
of places, are treated us and explained. With J <
a correct set of Charts, 1 vols. Xvo. price 6 dol». • •
By the Uev. JOHN MALHAM,
$5" This has been pronounced the moll ufe
ful and the cheapeti book published in Amtrica.
June 9.
—' ]
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
-]» jfRSj- GROOMBRIDGE with,much pleas
iVJL ureand refpeft, returns her sincere ic
kno*ledgernent tor the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years residence in ! j
Philadelplna ; and allures her friends and the ■ ,
public, so far from intending to decline her j ]
school, Ihe has made a superior an angement fur t
. the more convenient accommodation of her ,
scholars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite :
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and matters excelling in their
refpeftive profeflions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June ;th, r797. Jimftf
The Ctuatiun is healthy ; and made
more agreeableJiy an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
Far Sate,
ON board the fliip Moi-Ly, John Froll, master
from Liverpool, laying at Walr.ut-ftrect wharf
6000 bushels of line ftoved^Salt,
And QUiiEN'S WARE, well afTuried,
By PHILIP NICKLIN Es 1 Co.
' WHO HAVF IN STORE, ALSO FOR SALE,
' ICO Boxes WhiteHavanna Sugars
1 JfP erial EA S
t Hyson \
t 1 j tubs QuickC lver
j 1 chests Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chests Manchester Goods well aflorted
. in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, muflinets,
dimities, &c. z Trunks black sewing silk,
180 Crates queens ware, well aflorted,
10 Tons sheet lead,
Nails aflorted, flat and slurp points,
•• London particular and ) Madeira Wine in
lS India market 5 P'P es and t h d».
30 pipes, io hhds. Tenerifte Wine,
10 pipes choice Port ditto,
31 casts yellow paint,
7 boxes 1 a bundles writing slates,
j box ipk-ftands & note prefles,
Sail canvas aflorted No- 1 A 8.
May 4- dtf
Millinery Room,
No. 136 Marhet fireet.
nass ciikrsTAi
TAKES an early opportunity of acquainting
her Friends that she has received by the
William" Penn, 1 variety of NEW MIL
LINER. Y, &c. which Ihr hopes to be able to
,B shew them in a few days.
May 18 s.? ot
~ A FMV BOXES OF
, rt Bologna S^pfa^es,
u OF A SUPERIOR QUALITY,
To be fold at No. 199 Swtli Front- tr.e».
• Apirlao, col^
The Commissioners
FOR carrying info effaa the TWFN.TY-Fift.3T
Article of the Treaty of Fricndiiiip, I<imii»,
and Navigation, between His Catholic .Majetty
rind the United Sta'es of A merica, hereby girt in -
formation to all Perionf the-ein concerned. —That,
in order to terminate a'l difference*, oh account ot
the leffcs (uftained by the Citizens of the United
States, in canfequ.-nce 'of their Veftels and Car
goes having bft n taken by the Subjects of His Cath
olic Majesty, during the late War between Spain
and France, that they ace ready to receive (at thrir
Office, between the hours of ten and one is'clat&i
daily) all complaints and applications, iiitht,sized
by the said Article, during Eiouteen Months,
irom the day of the date hereof, and that they havff
power to examine all filch pcrfons as tome before
them, on oath or affirmation, touchfng the com
plaints in question, and also to reteive in evidence,
all written teflimnry, authenticated in such man
ner as they ihall think proper to require or admit.
By Order of the Commiffumrrti
PETER-LOHRA,
Secretary.
C mmijfinners Office, Ao. 109, Mulberry- '
reet, Philadelphia, May 1 ~th, 179 7.
10—$4w
—
The Commissioners
T?OR carrying into efTeil the sixth article of the
JL treaty ot" amity,commerce &£d navigation, con
cluded between his Britannic majesty and theUt.iud
States of America, ©n the 19th day of Noverftbef-,
1794, having this day constituted their
purluant and agreeably to the said treaty, do here
by give notice, that they «re ready to proceed to
hufinefs accordingly ;and.they defrre that all claims
under th* said article (which so far as the iarhe de
fenses the cases thereby provided for, is hereunto
annexed) may be lodged with their Secretary withn
out delay.
They further desire that all such claims may not
only state in what manner the l'cveral cases come
within the description of the said article, but alio
specially set forth the nature of the evidence by
which the claimants refpe&iveiy undertake to sub
stantiate the fame.
Exjrad from the said article,
" Whereas it is allcdged by divers British mer
" chants, and others his majesty's fubje&s, that
" debts to a confid rablo amount, which were bona
" fide contra£led, before the peace, still remain
" owing to them by citizens or inhabitants of the
44 United States; and that by the operation of va
" riot® lawful impediments, since the peace, not
u onjy the full recovery of the said debts has been
i* delayed, but also the value and security thereof
,c have been in several instances impaired and leff
-14 ened, so that by the ordinary course of judicial
" proceedings, the British creditors cannot now
** obtain and actually have and receive full and
" adequate compensation for the lolfes anil dama
" ges which tney have thereby/fufrained: It is a»
" greed that in all such cases where full compenfa
tf tion for such lofles and damages cannot for what
c< ever reason be a&ually obtained, had and recei
" ved by the said creditors in the ordinary Pcourfe
u of juftiee, the United States will make full and
" complete compensation for the fame to the said
4< creditors: but it is diftin&ly understood, that
" this provision is to extend (o such lofles only, as
c< have been occasioned by the lawful impediments
" aforefaid, and is not to extend to lofles occasion*
" ed by such insolvency of the debtors or-other
" causes, as would equally have operated to pro
" duce such \ofo f if the said impediments had not
" existed ; nor to furh lofles or damages ps have
" been oceafioned by the manifeft delay, ornegli
'• or wilful omifiion of the claimant."
By order of the Board,
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secretary.
Philadelphia, Commissioners* Office,
No, 3 fouthSixth-ftreer, May 29,
1797- J 6—srm
r HE SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
the Envoy Extraordinary and Mini Iter Pleni
potentiary of his Biitannic Majesty, General A gent
) lor affixing British creditors, and such particular a
i gents as they may fpe ( ially authorize, !n profecutmg
] their claims bcfr.re the cammiflioners for carrying in
to effrft lixth article of the Treaty of Amity. Com
\ merce and Navigation between his Britannic Majejly and
the United States ef America, hereby gives no.ice that
I he has opened his otft e at his house the foutli calk
| corner ot Chefnut and fifth streets, Philadelphia,
where he is ready to receive all claims or infLru&ions
tor claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the purpose of bringing forward the fame agree*
ably so the rules and orders which the board may
wink proper to prescribe.
And a * it will be for the intercft of all concerned,
that' the fevcra? claims be so flaied, and fupport
td, as to prevent the delay which would arile from
the neccflity of obtaining Turther information, or ad
ditional materials,fiom per fans residing at a distance,
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the
f (fit'c&ion chiefly of tbofe, who, n«»t having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the profccution of
1 their claims to his charge and management) that all
such claims ought in particular to fct forth—
ift. The pioper description and foliation of the
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, refpeit
ively.
2d. The date or nature of the original contract or
debt.
3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant w*s prevented or impeded*
by the provifiqn, operatipn or dele-it of law, the
1 decisions and praftice of courts, or teftraint of exe
cution, fiom recovering payment cf the debt iu
queilion.
4th. The loss and damage incurred or faftained,
in confequencc ess such impediments, whether tbc
fame may hare arifcn from the infolveney, change of
(iiuatian, or death of the debtor, th& iofs of legal
remedy from lapse of time, or ctbercaufes impairtrg
the value and security of the debt) which would rtot
have so operated if such impediments had notexifted.
And h The particular groonds and reaions ott
which the claimant maintains, in the terms ©f the
treaty, that '* by the ordinary course of judicial
ings, ihc creditor cannot now cbuin and a&ually
have snd receive full amd adequate compensation" tor
the loffcs and. damages fofuAaiued.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to f*£-
(jest tbu the fr.vera' claims-ought to be accompanied
and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly attested, both as to thecKiftercs
of the debu claimed, and fucb other circumftanrci
% as may be within ihcir own knowledge re'.ye&ively.
And wherever the claimants in dating tho nature of
their Evidence (which mud in- every mftancr be the
ig. best of which the cafe is capable) have occasion to
> c tefer to tlie tcilimo«y of witnrfTea, it will be proper
to apprise the general »gent of the names and a
;o of rclid'oce of iuch wimedeaand the fa£l*to be
blifhcd by t&ciz ictlirnany.
Wm. Moore Smith.
_ Philadelphia, Juu 8 h, 1707. dim
New-England Rum,
In Hogflieadj :11a Surre's, for sale by
£ZEXIEL HALL.
June 7. . 4t.
\Voi.VME XI.Advertifemcint.
1 PURSUANT id an Order fronf\he GrjlanS Court,
will bedrid at PUBLICSALR* at' Cranberry, on
IVodntfday, the I Alb day of June next, all that valuable
HEAL f STATE, Ute bet*fiug to the Rev. Gilbert
T. Simvdtn, dec? fed, lying in and tii.tr Cratbrrry, in
lb: 4ty9/ Mi Ml'fix, townfbrp rf Sogth Brunfwick,
thie kf N.w Jersey, upon the lower flog* road leading
-from PUUuUfbU to New Tori. A very elegant frame
house in and healthy fituui'ton, painted white,
HOiib Venetian -window fbut'rrs, thirty fed front and
thirty-eight feetdecpy tivo rooms -with a bandfome ball or
entry on the firjt fisor y tbrec rooms ca the fcccnd floor atld
frtro utU-f.nifbedgarrets. In the rear <f the house is an
exce'L'tt Ho+ferj building sbnfU'tmg of a i Unwjr-room
work f)eof>lcj fftaclous pastries and a tdpgf kitchen, ivith
every cOn-deifcnce, ami over these bre three chatahirs for
fervante. 'To the right is an additional building confining
of a -tarnrbrr belnu and a library ab*>ve—"Under tr. whole
are very f.ne cellars paved with brick. The bonf; is en
tirely' new and/ml/bed with taf.e. Every room is burg
With bells to J: lead both to the kitchen and the fervur.ts'
apartments i there is a pump in the yard; and'a.flone
artdbrick pavement round the whole house, which is enclof
rd with 6 bandjome railing) with tbret gates in • front.
Th. farm confijls of one hundred and Jtxty seven aires,
with a proportion of woodland and meadow, under excel
lent fence ; a garden with pale fence ; a large barn, fa
in the bofl manner : with a young orchard of ZOO grafted
trees. Nearly adjoining said farm is a lot of IVoodlanJ
tf the befi quality, containing 37 acres. Also a trafl of
land within seven miles of Cranberry, containing one l>un~
drcd and fifty acres, three-fourths meadow and the red ex
cellent timber. This will be fold in lots or together, as
W'.'l bejl fait the pur chafers.
The payments, one third cafb-~one third in one year- J
and the remaining third, one year following, with intere/l j
oft th'. txoo lafl j-ayments, and approved feeurity.
For further particulars enquire of Nathaniel Hunt, \
Eff.vr Dr. Ralph Lett, Cranberry ; of Jfaac Snowden,
at Princeton ; or of Isaac Snowden, fun. No'. 141 South
Second Jfreet, Philadelphia•
May 2S §6mwftS
C O T T O N.
A few bales just arrived, for file by
JOHN CLARK,
No. 5 J North Wattr Strert.,
June 10. eotf.
LancaQer, Harrijburgh, CarliJJe,
Shtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES."
THE public arc requested to tske notice; that
the partnerihip which has far lomt time fab
fiflcd betwesu Mathias Slsugh of and
William Geer, it now difTolvcd: bat, not as M.
Slough insinuates to the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fnb
je<£t from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
more ctrcumflantiaJly informed of the merits of
this bufinefj, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal ef M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfe&ly juftifiable in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution df the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippcjjf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public w«re pleased to confer on the 6rft effort in
this buGnefs, William 'Geer, in conjunction with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Winner, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poflibly tx.Tt.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the paflage tafe and commodious, inform
thoft wno wifli to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign as the White Hi.rfe,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle aiid Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
established.
for the further accommodation ofthe public,
a Stage will flart every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder. 111 Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from theice and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that passengers deftincd for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed o«i Mon
days. s
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster. Jan. 17, 1797-
- N. B. This Line ef Stage 9 flarts from the
house of William Ferrxc, in Lancaster, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wcdnef
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday: performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadel
phia. mwf
Venereal Complaints,
PUNC H'ALLY attended to in every flage of
that disease, without the use of meriury or
restraint of diet, in any cafe recent and simple. on
application at No. 113, Chefnut-ftreet, opposite
tin United State* bank, or at No. 170, South Wa
tcr-ftreet, between Spruce and Vine-ftaeets, where
he has opened an office for the better accommoda
tion of his patients.
But in Lues Venerea confirmed, Dodtor Morgan
pledges himfclf, thu no system of cure (however
specious) can be effectual without mercury, and
that all the known rules of practice for thek two
centuries past, and united experience affirms, that
any fubftitu'.s for it is but nugatory, and any mode
of practice to the contrary must be futile and de
ception.
Nevertheless, he undertakes, however compli
cated the cafe, to effedt a cure without inconve
nience or injury to the patient's confti:ution, and
in time not generally experienced or expe&ed.
N B. Regular attendance at the office in Water
flreet, from the hour of nine o'clock in the morn
iag until one, and from three o'clock in the even
ing until seven ; but any o her time at his dwelling
house, in Chefnut ftrect.
May 16. dtf
A Cow Stolen'
FROM the owner at the corner of Ninth
and Arch streets. She is a deep red
brindle with some white, about ten years
old and very gentle. The person who se
cretes her had best turn her out, as, if legal
evidence can he may expect a
rigorous prosecution. "TWO DOLLARS
reward will be given to any person who will
deliver the Cow, or give such evidence a
gainst the person keeping her, that he may
be convi&ed of the fa£t. Apply at
* , No. 218, Ancu Srßtsr.
June 9. '. > . tawjw
Now Landing,
At Pratt's tuharf, ',
FROM on board the ship Thomas ChUkley,
Capt.Kafer, from Bourdrauk,
CLARET ia cafka «
Ditto in cases'
White Wine Vinegar
Ked Skins iu boxes
Fcr Sale bv >.-'»•
Rundle Leech.
Miy rj f
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
THURSDAY, JUNE 8.
fCoutluded from Friday't prper.)
Mr. Swan wick ftiid. that as the-queftion
was toinfcrt the word IVeJi Indies in the re
solution, it might not be amiss to make a Tew
observations on that trade. Much had been
said about the reflri&ions which should be
laid on vessels going out, that they should
carry no contraband articles, of English or
French property, and that therefore they
could not be legally flopped } but he allied
under what regulations vessels were to be put
on their return ? What documents could a
vessel bring from any port in the Weft In
dies ? Every person who was acquainted with
the Weft India trade knew, that it was a
continued source of distrust, left the French
or English should export their property un
der cover of American property, and, in
either cafe, where the fait appeared, vessels
were looked upon as good prizes. This col
lusion, he said, had been carried on in a vari
ety of ways, some of which he explained.
He knew of no method by which this could
be prevented, and still he believed more ves
sels were taken coming from, than'going to
the Weft Indies. Mr. S. saw no EQvantage
from arming, because, he believed, we should
not only lose our vessels, but also the arms
on board : and those veflels would probably
be made use of as privateers against our own
trade.
But why, said Mr. S. is so much said a
bout the French in this debate ? This arm
ing,he said, would operate principally against
Great-Britain, as a greater number of our
veflels in the Weft Indies were taken by the
British than by the French ; because we had
much more valuable trade with the French,
Spanish, and Dutch islands, than with the
British. France yrould rather be pleased
than offended at our determination to pro
test our trade, because the want of that pro
tection had been one of their causes of com
plaint, and tEey would know that in a fort
night after we sent our armed veflels to sea,
they would be fighting with the British.
| So that this measure would be like a two
edged sword, and cut a contrary way from
that which its movers and supporters in
tended.
It was asked how long we should submit
to the degradation of our veflels being con
voyed by the armed (hips of Great-Britain ?
He would answer that these convoys were
confined to their own ports, and did not ex
tend to the French, Dutch or Spanish ports.
If the French had a fufficient force in that
quarter, they might also convoy our veflels
from thence.
When he spoke before on this question,
he said the expense of this measure was of it
felf a fufficient objection to it ; when it was
answered that this was no objection, because
if merchants did not find their own account
in it, they were not obliged to go into the
measure. But it was not only on this ac
count that he objected to the plan, but be
cause it would give rife to collulions of the
most dangerous kinds, and all regulations
which could be thought of, would be in
efficient tp prevent them.
It had been said, if this measure was not
gone into, our coasting trade would be ruin
ed. Was it then expe&ed that French pri
vateers would come and take our coasting \
vessels ? If so, were our coasters to be arm
ed ? This he could hardly suppose, as no
transportation could support the expense of
such a measure ; and if not, what became of
the argument on this ground ?
Mr. S. concluded by faying, he had
shewn that a regulation of the kind proposed
could not effeft its objed, that our veflels
would not be able to cope with the force
they would meet with, and that it would
lead to war. He believed we must deter
mine upon one of two things, viz. either to
continue our trade, as at preferit, by means
of insurance, Or give it up altogether. And
this might be left to regulate itfelf; because
whilst the prpfits arising from it were fuffi
cient to make it worth the attention of mer
chants, it would be carried on ; when it was
not, it would be declined.
Mr. PoTTEßhoped the amendment would
prevail, and that we should have the ques
tion, as he thought there had been more than
enough said upon it. He was afraid no
question would hereafter come up, but gen
tlemen would think it necessary to tell them
all they knew about the law of nations, &c.
Many gentleman had complained of long
speeches and personalities, and immediately
madeJtill longer, and been more personal. He
could not fay whether these long speeches
were made to display members own vanity,
or from their opinion of the ignorance of the
House.
Mr. Harper took notice of what had
fallen from Mr. Swanwick on the fubjeft of
French and British spoliations. On a for
mer occasion he had said that the depreda
tions of the British were equal to those of
the French ; but now he told them they
were much greater. Mr. H. said, he then
called upon him for his proof, and he referred
him to the insurance offices. He had ac
cordingly applied to them, and though he
had not yet got his information complete ;
such as it was he wpuld lay it before the
committee.
From the insurance company of Pennsyl
vania, he found that since the firft of Janu
ary, the French had taken four ships, five
brigs, and three schooners, infurcd in that
office, and the British only two brigs in the
fame time. From the North America in
surance office his account was less complete,
as it went back to the beginning of 1706,
and ended with the end of it, when the fpo
liatioxn of the Frertch were not so great as
they have been fmce. The total amount of
British captures during that period, was
■99,274. dollars ; of French, 271,000. But
he 'believed, if the account was brought up
to the present date, the French Spoliations
would be ten tiir.as the amoiint of the British .
But of this he flwald b? mere certain to
morrow, as he Was promlied a statement of
thcm.at that time.
Mr. S. Smith said, if hs Qnderftoddthe
observation of the gentleman from Pennsyl
vania, it referred to captures of fair and
honorable trade, and not to those made of
veflels of the United States engaged in illicit
commerce. If, when the gentleman obtains
his information from the insurance offices,
he will get them to state to what place the
veflels which were taken were bound, and
with what they were laden, the committee
would be able to understand what they are
about. Philadelphia, he said, was particu
larly situated in this refpeft. One of the
most refpeftable houses in the city was one
upon whom Mr. Wigglefworth, the British
agent, drew all his bills for produce carried
for the use of the British government. This
gave them an advantage over other parts of
the union, and hence it was that there Were
more depredations committed by the French
upon veflels from Philadelphia than from any
other port ; but much of this trade was ille
gal, as it was carried on to ports where there
were only a few British troops, and which
were deemed by the French rebel ports. It
was on this account that he had twice pro
posed a resolution to the house, but had not
been able to pass it, to get a particular ac
count of veflels taken in going to the Weft
Indies, since the Ift of Oftober, 1796. —
This account from the insurance offices, he
said, was not a fair one. Many veflels, he
said, were captured, taken into British ports,
and after being put to great loss and incon
venience, released. These did not come
within the view of the insurance office, tho'
they were probably obliged to fell their car
goes at 50 per cent under its value. There
fore any account which could be got from
insurance offices could not be relied on.
Mr. S. said he had this morning received
letters from different captains in his employ
to and from French ports, who had been
carried into British ports, and obliged to fell'
their cargoes at a price by which he should
1 lose jo per cent. He learnt that the priva
teers state their orders to be, to take and
carry into British ports all veflels bound to
and from French ports. They state that
nine American veflels which were taken in
this way, were carried into Cape Nichola
Mole, and afterwards sent to Jamaica. —
These, he said, never came before an insu
rance office, because they were excepted
against in the policy of insurance.
The gentleman from Massachusetts had said,
why did not the merchants meat, and express their
withes on this fubjeit. The merchants in Phila
delphia, Mr. S. observed, confided of Fnglifh,
French and Americans, and so different were their
feelings, that were they to meet, they probably
would not agree to any declaration which co»ld be
formed.
Mr. S. Read the proclamation of Vi&ar Hugues
wherein he declares certain ports of the Weft-In
dies in a state ofrebellion, and forbids trading to
them. He thought this provision just, and if per
sons continued to trade to these ports, after this
notice, they must take theconfequence.
J Mr. Cuamplin interrupted Mr. S. to enquire
whether Martinique was included in the Rebel
Ports; because it had been taken after a vigorous
resistance. Though, he laid, he was no merchant,
his friends were engaged in Commerce, and from
them he had some knowledge on that fubjetft. The
gentleman froi* Penefylvania had stated that our
commerce Was stopped to the Havannah, whereas
he knew that between 30 and 40 veflels which
trade betwixt Rhode Island and the Havannah had
arrived fafe. They had been searched, but after
examination, all of them had been dismissed.
Mr. S. Smith said Martinique was considered
as a Rebel Port by Viitor Hugues. It was true
that Port Royal was bravely defended by French
trdops, but the island itfelf was given U P to the
Britilh without any resistance. But suppose that
Island was taken fairly, they were cautioned a
gainst trading there, and it would afterwards be
come a matter for difcuflion betwixt the, two Go
vernments, and if it ought not to be confiaered as
a Relel Fort, he trusted we Ihould get redress for
the property which had been taken in going there.
The property of veflels bound to the regular ports
of Great Britain, Vidlor Hugues caused to be fold,
and the amount placed in the treasury.
Mr Chamflin again interrupted IVr. S. to fay
that property which was thus'taken was fold for
one-tenth of its value, and the small turn of money
for which it was fold was placed in their treasury
so |that the whole value was detained from the
ojvner.
Mr. S' Smith acknowledged that this was true.
The goods were fold at vendue (perhaps unfairly)
for what they would fetch. Mr. S. here mention
ed the cafe.** a (hip of histaken by ViiStor Hugues,
which had been mii'reprafcnted to his disadvantage.
It was the Ihip Jane, chartered by him, the super
cargo of which was cruelly treated and placed is
prjfon, Irom an idea that the veflel belonged to a
Scotch merchant in Baltimore 0/ the fame name
with his fapercargo ; but on the miltake being
cleared up, and finding on the trial, that the veflel
belonged to a real American, who Was in the habit
of trading to French ports, and thatfhe was bound
for Martinique, and not for Guadalcupe, fee was
released. This account of the tranfa&ion was at
the time fairly represented in the American Da.'iy
Advertiser, but from some cause or ether had got
represented to his difad vantage in other papers.
He apologized to the Committee for having
bled them with t.lis fa&, but as it had been allud
ed to by different Gentlemen, 111 the conrfe of the
debate, he thought it neciffary in his juftificati-jn
to state it.
Mr. Bh»ok«s said the committee had long been
amufecT with matters 110 way conoeited with the
fubjedt under difcuflion. He fliould confine him
felf to it, that an individual had a right to arm his
veflel for felf defence was very clear ; it was the
the practice not only of this, but of every other
nation. The next conlideration was, whether it
would beeipedicnt at this timet#go intp the mea
sure. Gentlemen had talked about what had been
done on a former occasion, when another nati»n
captured our veflel;, which he thought had nothing
to do with the present question. Heretofore our
veflels had been captured by veflels of considerable
force ; but «f late, the principal depredations com
mitted upon »ur commerce were the aits of small
veflels without authority. He thought, it was
therefore a question with the":ommittce whether
they could not so modify the" refohition, as to less
en the evil, without any danger of offence to ether
nations. He thought they might. Aitempts had
been made to terrify them with the cry of war ;
and that they mull net pursue that or the other
plan, for fear of offending the Republic or
Britilh Nation. He thought when they were eon
fldcrisß; the bell mode of defending our merchants
against pirates and buccaneers, no nation had a
right to take offence at them : and if matters of
veffcls traafgreffed their orders they mult be ac
countable.
Mr. Giles reprobated the Idea of maflerj of ves
sels being accountable, aHd at placing the peace of
the United States at rilk npon a merchant's bond. '
The (fCEtI.-man ruight be very bold about war; ha
could not help faying he dreaded it. Why, he alk
ed, did they all at enc: feci this ebullition; they
had all the infermstian last fcflien which they had
at present, except as to the in Cult offered 6ur mi
niitcr ; yet he Ix-lievcd,.if any man had co ne for
w:th a proposition like the prelcnt a: that time, he
would have been deemed a madman. And now
commifliontirs are appointed to fettle our differ
ences, they were about to lay the foundation for a
thousand frelh difpu:H* fottnd hirofelf much
alarmed at this, because he knew thil country had
a'l to lofe,and nothing to gain, by war, and nothing
increafea l\isappiehenfii)n more than the languagcol
gentlemen gn that floor. 1 hepYopSfed ft;heme,he
laid,was a vifioHary one,andpregnai:t withmifchicf.
i'hey all knew the.e were complicated difficulties
with refpeit to the law of nations, aad it would be
the hcigkth of folly t» arm our veflel, to contest the
point with any foreign power.
Nor did Mr G. think our present fitua'ion
lo calamitous asfome gentlemen had affetftcd to
Rate it- He believed it was as good as it ever
would be in anytime ofpeaaj. The belt crite
rion was the prise of produce. Much mifchief,
it was true, had been opcifioned by spoliations
upon merchants property at sea : but he belie
ved much greater had been 6'ccafioned by wild
(peculations on land. And it was no wonder,
that when individuals were out of humour from
their lofles, that extravagant mcalures (hould
be thought of; but that they fbouUt be ftrioufly
urged in a Legislative body, wasfurprifipg. He
trusted there never would be a House of Re
presentatives so loft to the interests of its coun
try, as to agree to a measure like the present.
Mr. Gallatin said, that the quelticn ha
ving been so frequently called for, he would
not again have troubled the committee, had he
nyt considered the present amendment to be of
as as any question that was
likely to come before them during the present
session. It was nothing less than to declare that
our merchant veflels armed in the Weft-India
trade, fliould be under certain reftritftions, It
hadnd relation to whether the right existed or
not; but whether they (hould give the power,
if it did not exist, or reitrain it, if it did.
He meant to contend, that if the measure was
adopted, it could not be produflive of one An
gle advantage, but that it would produce great
evils, modify it as they pleased.
If the power ot felf defence was employed a
gainst search or capture it would transgress the
laws of nations. To prove that refinance to a
search was ground of capture he read paflagSs
from Vattel and Martan. If resistance could
be used at all then, it uiuft be to resist illegal
search This would depend upon treaties of
commerce which might be Inexiftence, By our
treaties with France, Holland, and (he belie
ved) Spain, themodesin which searches lha 1
be made have been pointed out. No veflel of
war was allowed to come nearer to our veflels
than gun Ihot, and were not to oblige our ves
sels to fend out their boats, but were themfelvrs
to fend their boat with a certain number of men
on board.
If one of their veflels (hould attempt to search
an American veflel contrary to these Imputations,
it might be called an illegal frarch, and the'
provision of felf defence might be carried into
effedl, and in this cafe alone. And he wiftied
to know whether any advantage was to be de.
rived from being authorized to resist, in such a
cafe ? It might produce an engagement, but
could never prevent a veflel being taken ; be
caufs one of two things would happen, the pri
vateer would either comply with the regula
tions, or go on to fight and take the veflel.
He said it was not pofiible to prevent the veflel
from being taken. The gentleman from South
Carolina had pointed out a number of reftric
tiens under which it would be proper to place
veflels thus armed ; but fnppofe ttie veflel to be
in none of these fituatiens, what was then to be
done ? Our veflels, he said, might be loaded
with papers and regulations, the fail was, that
we had no right to judge of the fadh We fay
no privateer has a right to take this veflel, be
cause engaged in a legal trade ; but, if a priva
teer, on infpe&ing the veflels'papers, fufpedls
the contrary, he may take' the veflel, and the
cause mult be tried In the admiralty court of
the ciptor. To prove this, he referred to sun
dry documents.
This being the cafe, he did not:fee a An
gle advantage to be derived from arming, for
a privateer might not only deny the cargo
to be a legal one, but that the veflel was
American, as had been the cafe in the cap
ture of a veflel going out from this port
last year (We understand he alluded to the
Mount Vernon) ; and as no suit had been
inftitated, he supposed the ground was a
good one. Indeed, he was informed that
the veflel and cargo was consigned by power
of attorney to the consignee, in England,
to be delivered up on her arrival, and that
a person on board was in poffeflion of the
consignment. If there were any other ad
vantage to be derived from arming, he wish
ed to hear it.
It was not, Mr. G. said from a fear of
offending this power or that, he was againfl
this regulation, but because it was calcula
ted to draw us into hostility, because if our
vefTels either refilled search or capture it
would certainly lead to war ; it would not
only lead to war, but it was <«ar !
In addition to what had been said, it.
might be observed, that when the British ex
clusively committed depredations upon, our
commerce, nothing was said about arming
our merchant veflels ; and if they had done
it, he believed it would have been consider
ed as an infraction of the law of 1794. He
therefore, submitted it to the Committee,
whether a provision like the present, would
not be considered as an aft of partiality.—
From this opinion, and that the measure
would be immediate hostility, he should op
pose it.
Mr. Harper charged the gentleman lad
up with building his fuperftrufture upon a
sandy foundation. He infilled that the
power of carrying veflels into port on sus
picion was done away by treaty, and that
if a veflitl had a regular sea letter and pass
port on board, there could be no plea for
carrying her in. Mr. H. complained that
many American veflels were taken by small
privateers without any authority whatever.
The Mount Vernon, hu said, was taken-by
one of these, and therefore there could be
no ground for offence to any Government,
to resist the attacks, of such marauder^. —
The spoliations of 1794, -and the present,-
were wholly 'different, and. therefore; there
could be no ground for a charge of partia
lity ; at that tirti£ our vefTels were taken by
large authorized privateers ; now they were
principally attacked and taken.by small, un
authorized vefTels.
M«. Galijatui- maintained.his ground,
and denied that a'fhew of regular papers
was fufiicient to' secure a vclTel.
Mr. W- Smit-h said, if the conftruftirtrr
given to our treaties by the gentleman last
up was a good' one, it vrould go to nullify
several articles in our treaties vvnufe only
tendency was to prevent vessels being carri
ed into foreign ports as prizes, and therefore
as they were certainly meant to have some
meaning, his conftfuftion could not be a
good one.
The question was not whether we ffiould
authorize our ve/Tels to arm to protest fliem
•felves } but whether, in the firfl place, our
citizens have a natural right to arm and de
fend themselves, and if they have the right,
whether the legislature dught to reftrift it,
and in what cases. Though lome gentle
men had denied this right to exist, no proof
bad been adduced in support of thatopinion.
The qneftion then was, whether the right
should be reftri&ed in voyages to the Weft
Indies, as well as to the East Indies and
Mediterranean.
There could be no doubt, Mr. S. Said,
that if a search was attempted in any way
contrary to the mode direfted by treaty,
such search was illegal, and warranted rcfift
ance. That merchant vessels had a right
to arm in their defence, in addition to -other
authorities, he had the opinion' of the at
torney general of the United States, which
he trusted would have due weight with the
Committee. (He read it ; it was dated
June i.)
It was said this power was not exerctfed
in 1794 ; but he said they were now only
about to reftrift a right, which was then
unrestrained. Indeed the privateers which
then took our vessels, would have been more
than an overmatch for any armed merchant
vessel, whilst a merchant vessel would be
equal to cope with any vessel which now an
noyed our trade in the Weft Indies.
If merchants vessels armed at all, he
thought there was as much, necefiity for it
to the Weft Indies as to any other part.—
He contended that the conftrudtion he put
upon Vi&or Hugues's proclamation was a
good one. He said he had examined into
the practice of the neutral nations, a>nd he
found that Sweden was in the habit of arm
ing her merchantmen. j (
He called the attention of gentlemen to
the consequences of rejecting the present
amendment. He believed if the reftriftions
were confined to the East Indies and Medi
terranean, that the bill would not pass the
Senate, if it pafled that House. - The right
of arming would then be fanftioned, and
they would have determined not toreftrainit.
The consequence would be, that merchants
would arm their vessels incompetently, go
and trade with what were called rebel ports,
which would cause bloodshed, their veffels
would be taken, and they would be hung - t
whereas if the reftriftion pafled, the arming
might be confined to large vessels, which
would be able to defend themselves. He
hoped therefore the principle wouldbeagreed
to.
Mr. Macon was surprised to hear the
, gentleman from S. Carolina introduce the
opinion of the Attorney General in the way
he had done. That gentleman was to give
h'- opinion when called upon by the house ;
but it was extremely, irregular to introduce
it in the way he produced it, as given
to an individual. He.was opposed .to the
refolution,-and said if large bauds were to-
De taken, none but men of property could
find the' security, and it would of cpurfe des
troy all the small vessels trading to the Weft
Indies.
The call for the question was loud, and
also for the Committee "to'rife, the question
for the Committee to rife was put, and ne
gatived.
Mr, Williams said he was as desirous
of taking the question as any one ; but he
wilhed to give his reasons for voting in fa
vor of the amendment. He was far from
thinking that the adoption of this refolu-.
tion would amount to a declaration of war ;
if so, he should be the firft to oppose it.—
The measure was recommended to them in •
the Speech of the Prelident, and he wished
to go into a consideration of it. He wiihed ..
the principle to be agreed to, and referred to
a special Committee, that they might have
a plan reported before them ; but in doing
this, he should not consider himfelf as pledg
ed to support the bill, -except he approved
of it.
The questions were then taken, upon the
amendment, as stated in Saturday's paper ;
except that instead of the Chairman decla
ring the question .on the firft amendment,
on which the division was 41 and 40, was' -
negatived, he declared it carried.
Saturday, jvne 10.
Mr. Blount called up the refehition which
he yesterday -proposed to the committee of "the
committee of the whole, calling upontho Pre
sident ef the United States to lay before the
House a return of all the arms and ammunition
owned by the United States, and where depos
ed. It was carried.
Mr. S, Smith offered a. refutation to the
House to the following effedl :
" Resolved that the President of the Uurtvtl"
States be requeftd ta Cayfeto belaid before ttier
House, a report refpeiling depredations com
mitted. on- the commerce of the United-Swteg
finte the lit of October. 1796, fpecifyjng the .
names ot the vessels taken, frcm whence i t
where bound, and wbere'ir can be ;f:ert»ipr ', '
the fpecierofiadlng, and the vefl'.l '
and cargo, and by what poser taken, particular-'"
izing tlicife wti;ch "have been eoitdemoerf, (ago-'
tfefr with the propjjr. documents relatwt fjjv-re-.' •;
to."—Agreed to.
Mr. BtoVNi' said, as they were to be railed
up«n to take the fi<bje&',6f firtVications tindir,
c#nfideraiib«»,he wimed t» have lome infermv'
' tion on the fu>>jeift, ani prapoftd to the House '
therefore,ji relwhlticn fa tWfalloM'ftTg'eflfea-: " 1
" Rfif jved that thaSecrefaTy ot \Uar be «»>
quired to lay belWe the House, a4ift of *htfor-<
t'ifications of the United States, together with
the number of •troops in each ; aii account of
the expente which attended the,erecting'thtni,
and what is yet necrfllry to their comMetiocr,
end of-the Expended money appropriated' Mr
that purpofi?." " ' .>'
Mr.LiviNOSTON'-faggcfled, the propriety-os»
fufferiiig this resolution to.lii?until the cemmitv
tee appointed on this lujijefl, their re
port, as he believed fcrtr.e of the'enquirieS would
be there answered, and that report would he
made to day.
ft:r. Blowht couftnrf J. ' •Mr. Uvingst.vj ?fi?n ca"c,l up the r«£>W
ifviwSiiih h'eTtail laid upon the uhlc'JTor* a;>- ■
p >ir.*Hag a* ii'lo ileft-n-1 before the cbmMifft
i -utri How Vitti ,»<*, the citizens of the United
States the claim, made upon tb.'m by
Great Britain, in pmlnanS* of the late treaty
Mr. W, Smith fubm t'eil to tb< c«n|Mcra-.
tion or the' nlovcr House, whether it would;
not heft to place tint bufiiiciV under the Attor
ney General. It might, In that cafe, be proper
to afford hen a sum oi money to'enable liini to
employ additional clerks for the jrni pile.
Me. Livingston had no objection to modi
fy the resolution in tfli-s way, " to appoint an a
v'nt to ajjifi the Attorney Gwciut' in the defence
if," yv-
Mi'. Maconflid this might f.e a good propiofi
tkm, but i' did ltot fir ike him as neceffjry. He
thought the cemmiffiaiwu would be competent
to do the bufmti's.
Mr. Go iDriCh thought the business wo.ild
be heft r«f.: trril to a feled committee.
"Sir Li»inus7uN-faw no ufein referring the
mitttrtO a felefl committee, except it were to
rtjjdft aJiill. When gentlemen refieded upon
-the nature of these debts, and the time at whirh
tljey were cortradted, they would fee the op
poriun;ty for collusion. He did not mean that
an agent, ihoOld be appointed to re fide at Phila
delphia, but a pei fiin who might be employed to
tn veftigoff, in the bed manner, the juflice of
the claims. The President might, perhaps, think
jt mceffary to appoint a perlon near to the pla
ces where the debts were con! railed.
Mr. Nicholas thought this a more serious
bufincfs than was ganerelly supposed, and that
it would he found so, when the money came to
paid. He knew not whether tw® or th:ee a
gerrts would'riot be necefTary.
The resolution was referred to a feled com
mittee, to rrpoi I by bill orotherwife.
Mr, LivungsTON, from th# committee ap
pointed on the fubjed of fortifications, report
ed sundry documents : together wil h a bill to
provyV for the fortifications of the torts and
fiarborj of the United State?, in which it is pro
vided that the money neeeffary for carrying it
into-efftd, (hall bt borrowed of the hank of the
United States, or in luch other way as shall te
found bed. * The bill was twice read and refer
red te a committee of the whole on Monday.
The House took up the resolution agreed to
in the committee of the whole yeflerrlay, au
thorising the President to call on the Executive
the several States, to hold B®,ooo militia in
readiness, apportioned acco ding to the number
of white inhabitants in each State.
Mr. W Smith. wi(hed one part of the reso
lution to be modified or omitted. He meant
that part which direded the men te be appor
tioned according ta the number of white inhabi
tants in each State: This, he said, might have
an injurious effed. For, in cafe an invasion
were to take place in a State arhert white popu
lation was the weakest, the proportion of men
detached would be so small as to be, in a great
degree nfelefs; and in other States, the number
would be greater than there was any necefiity
for. For inflame, if Georgia were to be the
place of attack (and if an invasion did take
place that was the molt likely quarter for it)
where the white population is small, there would
not be a fufficiant number of men to afford any
protedion, »n the plan proposed. He thought
if they fixed upon the proportion, thecanftitu
tional estimation would be best, viz. to add to
the white population three-fifths of the number
of negroes. He moved to strike out the appor
tionment, in order te have the regulation to be
inserted : n "he hill.
Mr. Macon did not think there was a
ny weight in the objeftion of the gentleman
last up ; as, in cafe of invasion, the Execu
tive of the State might call out more than
the number he?e contemplated, or even the
whole of the militia, until afG fiance could be
got from the neighbouring states. The re
solution, being iu the form of that agreed
to on a former occasion, could not reason
ably be objedted to.
Mr. T hatch Est 1 enquired whether it had
been cuflomary to train blacks to arms ?
Mr. W. Smith said he was not under
flood. He meant that the number of whitis
to be detached, should T>e in proportion to
the number of whites, wSh three fifths of
the blacks added to the number.
Mr. Venable did not think there would
be in such a regulation, as the duty
would lie heavier upon states thinly inha
bited than upon others. In cafe of invasion
he said, the neighbouring states would be
called upon.
Mr. M'Dowell said, that should the
gentleman from South Carolina's proposition
be jtgreeed to, the duty would fall heavier
upoH his (Mr. S's) constituents than upon
any other part of the Union ; besides, when
so many yvhites were taken from home on
this business, the reft would be cxpofed to
the blacks. He truiled therefore he would
not press it.
Mr.* W. Smith wilhed only for the fub
jeft to be left open, that the apportionment
might have been left to the President. [He
read the form of an amendment which he
would have proposed.] He did not at pre
fect contemplate an invasion, though it
might be neceflary to adopt this cautionary
measure. He withdrew his amendment.
The question was about to be put on the
resolution ; when
Mr. Varnum said he did not fee any oc
casion for this resolution. He did not think
they had any reason to suppose an invasion
probable ; but if it should take place, there
was, Efficient power in the Executive of the
different governments to call out the militia.
He did not know how the militia was regu
lated other States, but In the Eastern
states, be knew it was always In readiness,
*nd t&at "£o,ooo men could be landed in a
few Says, at any point, from Portsmouth to
Rhode Ifiaod. This being the cafe, he did
not think it neceflary to make any detach
ment from them. It was true, an invasion
might take place from France, but hetho't
it was'as probable it might come from Eng
land ; though, he believed it was equally.pro
bable It might be from Niotha Sound.
It was said that this regulation would be
co'cxpence to the United States : It might
be »o expenee to the government, but it
will he arferiouil expence to the people. He
thought the situation of the United States
very <*iffereiit now from what it was in 1794.
The BritilK were at that time, not qily
taking onr property at sea, but they nad
large-provinces adjoining upon the United
States, and could hare brought large bodies
of trcops aga-iuft us. It alio appeared that
they had hostile intentions 2gair.lt us ; it ap
peared frcm the Proclamation of the Gover
-Icr of Canada, tbnt Great • Britdin meant
to/uccldre vrav ) tnat the Indians were pre
pared to make attacks oh bur frontiers ; auJ -
fortifications'were trcAing within cur ter
ritory. In tliis cafe it bo."?me prudent to
have a detachment of militia iff persist rea
diness. But said Mr. V. the situation of
the United States is povr very different.—
Tite rmtiou with wnom we have now a
mifunderftandiiig, had no poflelfions adjoin, ,
ing upon us,, and there was not much pro
bability of troops being sent against us from
France. He did not v'.fh', therefore, to go <
into the present measure. It might be well
to call uDon the Secretary at War to know
the condition in which the militia was in the '
different-parts of the Union ; he did
not think more was neceflary.
Mr. Blount agreed with gentleftien in
opinion, that they had 110 reason to expeft 1 '
any invasion. But.it was well known the 1
President of the Uhited States,in hisfpeech '
had spoken of raising a proviiional army ;
but if he had not done this, he thought the* ■
measure now before them was at all times '
proper. The experrce would depend upon '
the time at which the regulation was carri
ed into effect. If the States did not call
extraordinary feflions, no expense would be
incurred. He believed weought at all times j
to have a military force standing in readiness, ;
which would at any time convince the world
that we were not a divided people. The best
defence, he said, was to be always prepa
red to meet the attacks of an enemy. When
the measure was formerly gone into, he had
as little apprehension of an invasion asat pre
sent ; and if we had no misunderstanding
with any nation, he should be in favour of it.
Mr. Thatcher believed it was true (as
his colleague had stated) that the Maflachu
fotts militia could at any time be called
out at a moments warning ; but if the Mi
litia in the Souehern States were not in this
readiness, he thought it would be well that
they should be put into such a (late.
Mr. J. Williams thought it would be
proper to have afele£t corps of militia in
readinefs ; but he denied that this could be
done without expence. The expence of
the corps which he commanded, when call
ed but in 1794, was very considerable. If
the gentleman from Mafiachufetts thought |
there was no immediate necessity for Hie
measure, he might move to have the power
of making the call whenever the President
should fee it neceflary.
The question was put on the resolution
and carried.
The resolution reported by the committee
of the whole, proposing to authorise the 1
President to provide gallies or other veflels j
for the defence of our coast, was next tak
en up.
Mr. Gilks wished to have it clearly ascertained
what was to be the employment of these vefTels.
ca Conjt. he said was an indefinite phrase and lia
ble to be mifunderftoed, He was decidedly against
■their being employed as a convoy In order to
make the meaning clesr, he fheuid move to strike
out the words " for defending our sea coast," to be
emDloyed within the jurifdi&ion of the United
•States."
Mr. RutledCe supposed. if the refolutisn ftom!
as it was reported, the veffeU w»uld be employed
withia the jurifdidtion of the United States ; but
hii thought it would be abfuni to fay, these veffsls
should on no aceount'paft the limits of thejurifdic
tion.—The pirates would know th's, and our vel
fels might have the mortification of feeing our
merchant ships taker, or plundered, without hav
ing the power of affording them relief. Or, if
one of these pirates were to come within the line,
and be pursued by one of these vessels, though the
might be on the point of taking her, yet ftie mud
no' venture acroft the line. He did not wish these
veffets to be employed as convoys ; but he thought
their destination might be fafely.left to the execut
ive ; and had no notion of doing the business by
balv.ix.
Mr. Brooks said, it appeared to him, that this
principle hud been decided yesterday, and did r.ot
require farther difcuflion
Mr. Nigholas supposed it was not from an
apprehension that tf e executive would not do his
duty, that it was wished this tfcifinefs should be
put into a definitive form. No one, he believed,
would put the fame contfru&ion upon the amend
ment that the gantleman from S Carolina had
done. It could not be supposed to be the intention
of the supporters of this amendment, th ;t these
vessels should be prevented from crofting the line
in pursuit of a pickaroon which had come within
■he jurifdidion of the United States lu.'eed the
gentleman himfelf had concluded, that such an
idea would be atfurd. To do away all objection,
he proposed to insert the words, " Jor th- define! tj
the ftei ctaji ivithin the jl/rifJiflion of the United States"
instead of Mr. Giles's amendment-
Mr. Gll.Bs thought the phrase sea eouft indefi
nite. It might be supposed, perhaps, to extend to
Bermuda.
Mr. W. Smith the gentleman last up had
Tuppafad the sea coast might extend to Eermuda,
vet our vessels were not to go beydnd the jurif
didion of th» United States, for th« defence of the
coast. This, he said, involved a cnntradi&ion.
- -e wilhed the gentleman to define what he meant
by ju'ifdiilion of the United States; he believed
it was not decided whether it extended three or
nine miles. If it were even nine miles, he said,
these vessels might fometinies be obliged to go be
yond the line mer«ly for the purpose of avoiding
shoals Why, then, confine them so very tightly,
When tlw purpose was expressly for the defence
of the coast, it could not be expeded they would
he employed in any other way j to employ them
a, convoys would be unlawful v
Mr. S p.wall proposed the following—" Ta de
fend the fern coajl of the United States, and to repel any
bojlility to tbeir vrfftls and commerce ivithin their jurif
diMion.
Mr. R. William* thought this amendment
more objedionable than any other which had been
proposed. . The jurifdidion not being afeertiined,
disputes would of courfc be the conlequence. He
thought Ihe resolution bettei without any of its
amendments. He was difpefed to defend ourcom
ajercewherever attacked ; but, if we had not the
means to do this, he w .-uld not do any thing which
wp'uld fetmto infer that we had not the wiih to do
it, by confining our defence of it without our own
territory.
Mr. Nicholas was in favor of the amendment,
• Mr. Allen thought the whole of t' c business
triji'nf, *nd wished to postpone the kufraefs. until
the bill came down from the Senate;-or, if they
did pa&ihercfolutioo, they ought not to confine
it within such narrvw 'bqiinds. After alluding to
the vlino'ts amendn ents which had been proposed
and rtppofi-d, nhich he Called " catches at /'Lrafet
he moved to poftpuue the fubjed till M'oh-
Mr, S. Smith agreed with the .gentleman from
C&nncAicut that the prtfctit was a trifling business,
and he would agfee to extend his motion till rtrxt
feftion. It was a liUifutijii concetM. It was
tifli navy, he said, which kept pofitfiion of our
coast, ar.d what el ed.heafktd,»«uUl thefefmall
vessels have upon them ? Some of our deserters
had lately gone ou hoard" ir.e of the Britlffc-fhij i of
war at Noifolk, and when thtff Were Jflii:aJed
hack, they were refufed; fuppofc, said fce,
one of thtfe vcfftls had been there to fcaveenfore- t
cd the demand, could any ope fttppofe, it would •
s have p -oduced any thing more than iiifult upon in- j
fult ? They couM not ? He wilhed to leave these
trifluig fubjetfis for the Senate, and to go on to
. fti-tftrfTttiM bufmek; he meant the ftnantas of the
ctuntry
Mr. Bilookes was in favor of coojng to a de
cision at present, fiilce the business had bee» fully
di/eutfeck
Mr. Allen wrlhed it portponed till Mon
day ; by that time, he thought, the House
would have come to its ftnfes.
Mr. Giles also thought the business
trifling, and proposed to poilpohe it till the
firft Monday in November next.
Mr. Hamper said, if he was of opinion
with the gentleman from Conhe&ieut, that
the Hoofe would have more under]} ancling
on Monday than at present, he would agree
to pollponc the question till that time ; but
he believed gentlemen mufl receive some
lessons of experience before they could be
convinced of their error. The arguments
of the gentleman from Maryland went to
this ; if we cannot refill a Britilh 74, we
will not refill a French pirate. But Mr.
H. trulled they fhouM not be diverted by a
jeji from doing what he believed good sense
and good policy require them to do.
Mr. S. Smith said he did not mean to
make a jell of the business ; but merely to
express his delire to go on to more import
ant business.
Mr. Thatcher asked, if this business
was pollponed, whether when the bill came
from the Senate, they could not proceed
with it ?
The Speaker answering in the affirma
tive, Mr. Giles recalled his motion.
Mr. Sewall said the bill in the Senate
had not the fame objeft in view with this
measure. It wastheir intention to provide
veflels as a convoy.
Mr. Gile6 believed it was not very or
derly to refer to business doing in the Senate.
He believed that bill was recommitted.
The question for postponing the business 1
till Monday was put and negatived ; Mr.
Sewall's amendmeut was then put and car
ried without a division.
The question ;vas then taken on the re- i
solution as amended, 'by yeas and nays, as
follow :
YEAS.
Meflrs. Allen, Baer, Balckvin, Bayard,
Bradbury, Brookes, Bullock, Cabell, Cham
plin, Clay, Clopton, Cochran, Craik, Dana,
Davenport, Dennis, Dent, Ege, Elmen
> dorff, Evans, Findley, A. Fofler, D. Fof
j ter, Fowler, J. Freeman, Gallatin, Gillef
pie, Glenn, Goodrich, Gordon, Hanna,
I Harper, Harrifon, Hindman, Holmes, H°f
mer, Iml'ay, Livingfton, S. Lyman, Ma
chir, Mathews, M'Clenachan, Milledge,
Morgan, Nicholas, Parker, Potter, Reed,
Rutledge, Sewall, Shepard) Skinner, Sin
nickfon, jer* Smith, N. Smith, S. Smith,
W. W. Smith, (P.) Stanford,
Swanwick, Thatcher, Thomas, Thompson,
Van Allen, Van Cortlandt, Wadlworth, J.
Williams, R. Williams.—6B.
NATS...
MelTrs. Blount, Brent, Bryan, Chapman,
Clairborn, Coit, Dawfon, N. Freeman,
Giles, Gregg, Grifwold, Havens, Jones,
Locke, Lyon, Macon, M'Dowell, New,
Sprigg, Varnum, Venable..—2l
Committees were appointed to report bills
in pursuance to the two refoluticins which
had been agreed to.
Mr. Varnum said there was a.fubjedt of
importance referred to in the President'S
speech, which had not yet been touched
upon, he meant the re vi lion of the militia
laws. In order to bring the business before
the House, he moved a resolution for tho
appointment of a committee to report whe
ther any and what alterations in them were
riecelTary. Agreed to, and a committee
appointed.
Mr. W. Smith called for the order of
the day on the bill from the Senate for
railing an additional corps of artillerists and
engineers.
. Mr. Blount allied whether it was not
neceflary, when they were going iulo these
espences, to go into an enquiry on the fub
je£t of ways and means. He moved that
a Committee of Ways and Means be ap
pointed.
Mr. W. Smith thought it better to pro
ceed with the business in the way he propo
'fed. Before they went into the fubjeA of
ways and meanS, he thought it was neceflary
they Ihould know what money would be
wanted, that they might provide according
ly ; and they could not know this, until
they had. gone through the several measures
which lay before them.
Mr. Nicholas said if it was neceflary to
have additional revenue, it would be well to
appoint a Committee to be calling about as
to the proper way of raising it. If the mo
ney were to be borrowed, they might be en
quiring upon what terms it could be got—
If they did not do this, when all the other
business was done, they would have to wait
until these enquiries were made.
Mr. Giles thought the bill for raising
additional troops might be very well put off
till next session. He did not believe there
was any necessity at present for an increase
of the military establishment. He thought
this t was the proper time for taking up the
j fubjett of the revenue, since they mull ei
ther borrow, or -raise money by taxes, and
he trulled a Committee would now be ap
pointed.
Mr. W. Smith withdrew his motion, to
give way to the appointment of a Commit
tee of Ways and Means-.
Mr., Blount said money woul<* certain
ly be wanted. It was presumed it might be
borrowed ; but no enquiry had been made
on.the fubjeiEl. He was of opinion that
the difficulties which would prejfeHt them-
Celves on this fubjeft, would throw out of
view a number of meafures'whichhe thought
might very well be difpefifed With'.
Mr. J. Williams thought if they ap
pointed a Committee of Ways and Means,
: I and were to go into the Militia Laws, tfity
might fit all summer. He hoped they Ihould
have gone otfi with the bill lor rtutuig i.»c" 1
and if'they had rejected that, and declined
furnilhing cdrrVoys, and the measure of pur
chasing vefiels for the defence of the coast,
was left to the discretion of the Prefidcnt,
that a Committee of Ways and Means would
not have been neceflary. .1
A Committee of Ways and Means, con
fining of seven members (after 15.and 13
had been proposed and negatived) was ap
pointed. Adjourned.
By this day's Mail.
BOSTON, June 8
Late Important Intelligervce ! j
Yesterday afternoon, arrived here the fliip '
Tf.lemachus, Capt. in thirty
days from Liverpool, by whom, we have re
ceived London papers to May 4th—which j
contain Paris news to April 28th—much
later than before received.—These papers a- j
bound with events of the greatell magni
tude,
.The articles'mod intereflingto Americans
contain well corroborated accounts, that pre
liminaries of peace had been signed between
the Emperor and French Republic ; having
been concluded by the Archduke Charles,
and Gen. Buonaparte. The events which
led to this measure were an unexampled se
ries of vi&ories by the French army of Italy
over the Auftrians, in which the latter 101 l
between 15 and 20,000 men in killed and
wounded, and prisoners ; great quantities
of ammunition, military ftore3, provisions,
&c. and two millions worth of Qmcklilver
from the mines of Idria. Our corroborat
ing intelligence are :—Firft, Mr. Fox, in
the Britilh House of Commons the 3d of
May, announced the event, and Mr. Pitt
did not contradict it.—Second, the French
Executive Directory, on the 26th April, in
a mefiage to the Council of Five Hundred,
fays a dispatch from General Moreau is ter
minated by the followir.gpoltfcript :: " A
Courier which I received this moment from
Gen. Buonaparte, announces me the signing
of the Preliminaries of Peace with the Em
peror." This meflage 'created the liveliefl
emotions of joy as the harbinger of a speedy
peace. Third, The Directory in another
meflage on the fame day, to the Council of
Five Hundred, refpecling the French Co
lonies, fay, " The Conllitution ought not
to be put in activity until after the Peace ;
but every thing announces that this peace
will be concluded in less than a month."
[tC? It may be neceflary here to state, that
that the reason why the Directory did not
receive a Courier from Buonaparte, announ
cing the above event, as early as General Mo
reau, was, that General Buonaparte in or
der to Hop the useless effufion of blood, di
refted the Courier he sent with the intelli
gence to proceed to Moreau's and Hoclie's
armies on theßhine before he wenttoParis.[
—Fourth, Gen. Vernier, Governor of
Strafburg, announced by the found of trum
pet, on the 24th April, a letter from gen
eral Regnio, to Gen, Vandamme, as fol
lows : " I have the pleasure to inform you,
General, that the preliminaries of a peace
have just been.signed by the arniy of Italy;
and an armistice has just been proclaimed
between the Aultrian army and that of the
Rhine and Moselle ; and 111 consequence you
will cease all hoftil?ties, and the advanced
polls will remain in the fame polkion."
This event caused unusual demonflra
tions of joy at Strafbourgv which was brilli
antly illuminated. At Paris numerous dis
charges of artillery announced the peafe—
bufinefs was suspended—and the streets and
garden's resounded with the shouts of vi-ve la
Paix wve la Republic ! Fifth* General
i Leckrc, arrived at Paris, from the army,
left the two generals fettling the preliminary
terms of peace. Gen. B. required, that
| the formal acknowledgment of the French
Republic, by the Emperor, should be ex
punged from the treaty, as the Republic
Hood not in need of it, for its exillencc.—
A number of less prominent occurrences,
convince us, that Peace. no<w exists between
the French Republic and the Emperor of Ger
many.
It will be asked, does the peace include
Great-Britain ? We can give no decisive
answer on that head.—A Paris paper of
April 26, fays, " The Direftory also rec
kons on a peace with England :—And on
the 2d of May, the Britilh Parliament voted
i,880,0001. loan to the emperor ; likewise
provision for guaranteeing 3,500,0001. to be
raised on account of the emperor. This
was on the day the news arrived of the em
peror's having made peace ; the officiality of
which Mr. P. seemed u-.ifatisficd with ; but
told the house, if it was neceflary to flop
the loan, it could be done in any stage of the
biU.
The conditions of the peace are variously
Hated—Some fay that " Austria consents to
the boundaries of the Rhine and. the Alps,
and the liberty of Lombardy and Mantua."
Others state, the conditions to be, " 1 ft,
the independence of Italy- 2d, the cession
of part of Upper Aullria to the prince of
Orange. 3, the expences of the war to-be
paid by the emperor. Cj* The terms are
only editorial conjeflures.
The French armies of the Upper and
Lower Rhine, both palled that .river about
the 19th April. Gen£i«l Moreau attack
ed and carried at noon day the Ibong pofl
of Kehl, and before 7 .o'clock planted the
tri-coloured flag on the battlements of that
very Kehl which they had defended sot; 52
days, again (I prince Charles and- all (he vi
gour of his veteran army. GeEcral,Hoche
eftabl (hed his polition or. the ri§)>t ftde of the
Rhine, after a pitched battle, and three ac
tions, in which he took "v<jO priionm, 27
cannon, 7 flam-lards, and Cc jgaggsip. . .
. A SERIOUS MUTINY
Broke out in the whole Britilh channel fleet
the 15th April. Oo that day, Adm. Brid
port ordered the fleet to prepare for fca, in
llead r S weighing anchor, the crew of the
Queen Charlotte, gave 3 cheers, ns thefignai
ot disaftedion—as the plan "had j; ten preme
d:*at4fl, fie reft of the crfewsfollowed: the
officers thnnderfthiclc,- could do nothing.
'I lie.? w«f« ioon. roofihed, antJ rones hung
from the fbrtj"ard arm !n let+orcm to tlfe un
popular of the fleet—ljeputies from each ship
i\ parted on board the Quefci Challotle, a firft
rate; #nd the mutiny, in confequeuce bf aii
intemperate proceedufe of admiral
nfr, afiumcd the molt alarming gfpeft.—
The demands of the feamcn were an advance
of pay to per month.; a"dq?allovrancj
of provilions j a more equal distribution of
prize-money; ahd the displacement. of sev
eral obnoxious officers. These demands
created the molt alarming apprehenfionin the
Britilh ministry ; but they west complied
with in their fulleft extent. Admiral IJrid
port communicated to the crewr the ton
ceffion of the government,, and a pardon
from the king 1 on which they all returned
to their duty. The contagion spread thro'
every port in England ; but at the failing
of the Telemaehus order had been restored.
A new loan for 18,000,0001. was carried
In the House of Commons, May 2, 193
againlt 50.
No intelligence had been rtt jived fiorri
Mr. Hammond, who had beeft sent to Vi
enna on a pacific embaffy.^
Twenty-one counties* cities, and towns
have petitioned for peace and the difmiffian
of Pitt. Other counties, &c. were as
sembling.
Three per cent, confol. May 4, 48 U2.
The official detail of the above spreads over
many columns- ; 'which had •cue time or room,
<wc should copy.
Zttt.
Philadelphia,
MONDAY EVENING, JU:.'E IJ, 1757.
■An error, in the cmifiion of leve.-ll fojtcncet
inadvertently look placein Mr.HAnrEK'sfpeech,
published on Saturday—A correiftion will be in
serted to morrow.
For the remainder of Mr. Dennis's speech,
&c.fee fourth page.
GAZETT& MARINE.LIST.
POUT of PHILADELPHTA.
ARRIVED. DAY St
Brig Nancy, Buck, Bordeaux 6?
Sehr. Hopewell, dark, Cape Francois '.9
Dove, Mays Charlelion 7
John, Wafs, Bodon !?
Crisis, Brown, N.Carolina 8
Virg. and Phil. Packet, ' P.ortfmouth 3
CLEARED.
brig Newton, Dacofta, . St. Croix
Harraonv, Morris, Wilmington, D
NEW-YORK, June 10.
Capt. Pratt, from Carthagena, infonms
that a Spanijh frigate, with the vice-king on
board, and about 9 millions of dollars, failed
from Carthagena while he lay there, and ar
rived Jafe at the Havanna the 12th of Febru
ary, hnd failed from thence for Cadiz the
loth April.
He further informs, that while there, S
vessels, 1 ship, 6 brivs, and a sloop, failed
from Carthegena for the Havanna, under enn
voy of. a schooner of 14 guns—that about the
2 jth of April, 3 had arrived at tie Havan
na, and 2 miffing. They were laden with
sugar, coffee, cocoa, and indigo, valued at 3
1 millions.
Left at Carthagena schooner Lucy, Bcfl
, wich, of Norfolk, to fail for New-lurk.
!/nne 6, in Int. 37, 23,.1cng. 73, 40,
[poke the schooner Triton, of 14 guns, Howl
ard, 24 hours from Philadelphia, to St. Tho
mas, all well.
Lailson's Circus,
South F r : '^-Street
NFXT Ttiefday, 1 Juie, after various
Kqueftrian Exerciles, will be prcfented
i (for iheftfcond tine) the grand, serious, hiftc
> rical and heroicalPantomimePlEßß' depßC'
rENCE, and HANDSOME MAC USLOAE
—With Militsry rvolut'ons, Battlo, Tourna
ments, and three Sc.-nes j ainted by JM. Per®-
nauy.
(Thfe particid rs will be given in the bills of
the ')av )
For Sale,
-The fine and remarkably faft
Virginia and Philadelphia
burthen about 100 tons. For terms apply to
Rofs & SiDtfon.
June ii. . dtf_
The sale of 40931 1-2 acres of
Land on the waters of \V healing and Fiihing
Creeks, in Washington county, adverted for
15th inft. is postponed to a future day, of which
due nctice will be given, if a private sale does
not take place. 3t
'une 12.
St. Übes Salt.
3000 bushels St. Übes SALT, for sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
T7. ?t
For Sale, a new threeJlory Brick
House.
A T the Merchants Coffee Hotife, on Friday
lA. next, the i/ith inft. at half past S o'clock
to the evening, will be fold by Public Vendue,
a genteel three story brick KoUle ; it is plfSfsnt
ly litiutcd on the South fide of rch Street, th«
fourth house above Fourth street.
It may be viewed any time before she fi»!e. ,
Terms arc, one fourth in approved notes »f
Sq days, and the refidne if required may re man
("even yesrs, «..i security ar.d interest annually,
Sold clear of all incumbrances, and imiatdt
* ate poflefiion maybegiven.
Further particulars will be made known at
thetiraeof I'ale, dy
Richard Footman E? 5 Co.
Auctioneers.
Jtf;f Ti d.;t
For bale,
npJaE ure*;-ired time of a likely Negro
jL Girl, about >0 years old, who has upvtaid*
of 1 i ycar6 to reive.—She is of a good t. mj er,
ard very <mart, active and ufefu! in a family.
Apply at No. 14? South fr-nt, < r 35 Uni.>n
Prttt. June to *n^atrCONGRESS* j«
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES, tl
fridat, M/ Y»6. i,:
In cotnrolttee ofttic whole, Mr. Dent in the 01
chair, on the amendment of the answer to the P'
PrcGdtnt. .
[Mr. DcMNit'r Spcch cinc udel J
But it » obfervej by some gentlemen that the *
article intlud.ng contraband geodt—" that free .
Slips Hull make lite goads" i. j'ifl "life of offence,
1 hope gentlemen wiil not be alarmed at my menti
oning this alledged inftasion, beeaufe Ido not 1
mean to enter into them, 1 think the gentleman
from South Carolina ( W. Smith) hat fully and moil
m-fieriy naiwered all the arguments of the other P
gtntlcman (Mr Nicholas) or* this fa**je<£l, and e- S
ven anticipated all the ideas advanced by the othtr
geutlemen on the fame point lo fully* that it
woald be entirely unneceflary for me to enter into "
the difeuflion, as 1 believe it hat been fully display- •
td to the fatisfadUon of the comaii:tee, 1 (hall "
just obftrve,. £ir, or that part of the article referr
ed to, which relate* to supplying belligerent pow- t
rrs with provisions, on what hat falien from the
gentleman from New York (M.". Liviagfton) he 2
hat put shit in a very extraordinary poficion, lays *
the gentleman, we Ihould have said to Great Bri- '
tain, there are cafe< in which by the law of nations' 1
provisions are to becoms contraband. Now every
snc k ioWt this ! The only doubt which can arile c
on this occaGon, will arise, not out of tvt ( -
out of the fa 3 : we always denied that proviGoas <
were liable to become contraband unlefswhere ■
one belligerent power had a well grounded hope 1
to compel another to peace—or to make a garrison t
capitulate, where tVitre exiftt an appearance of thit '
provisions, and 1 may fay every thing in existence t
may become contraband. It depends then on fa&» 1
or exitting circumstances. Nations fam.etimes de- 1
clarc a port in a Hate cf blockade when it it not; j
neutral nations hive then a right to exercise their 1
judgment ®n point: lo it was when Britain '
declared the whole French Republic in aft ate of •
blockade —wedeeied the fail, and did not consider 1
ourfe vet bound by that declaration. Eut the gen- >
tleman fays if this be the law of nations why did we 1
feeognizeit. . I answer, he may recoiled nations
recognizing mpre simple la&s than this, when a- ,
gainll the law of nation" tco. It was recognized (
to make it more plain, lor it is important,—if not,
rot only is the vessel taken, but a confifcation of the \
property. It might become nugatory and mifche
vious if not mentioned. It will appear then, that
V.-c have granted no new light. We have ftipulat
•d that though these nations may take our provisi
on it lhall not be without an ample conGderatiou .
this was altogether an article of our ow», and if a
r.y natioa found fault it would be more reasonable
ao expefl it to be Great Britain. This position
goes to shew that it was our intcraft, and not the
particular injury of any nation, that this stipulation
Was made But it has been said that we fuller our
feameo to be impressed on board Englilh (hips to
the great injury of the French. 1 ask, in what
manner have wefuffered it ? I will grant that the
tight of complaint is in us—l will grant that if by
partiality or connivance we had fuffered it, there
Would be jufl ground of alarm from the French.
How have we fuffered it ? Because a strong nation *
took advantage of our weakness.
Another gentleman, who went copiously in
to the fubjeit, fays«hat we have surrendered the
right of fequellration. Ido not eonceivethit right
when I ana under a itioral obligation to do it. It
is hot a surrender to fay merely, that we will not
ffcqueflrate.
The gentleman from Pennsylvania fays, could
we expeil that, while we were granting ftipulati
ont, that frea fhipt Ihould not make free goods,
France would not ail upon Gmilar principles I
could not fuppcie that France would violate her
tteaty to us, merely because it washer inter eft to
do it. But here w« complain of depredations
committed upon a right predicated upon tliis fup
poGtion. I should not aigue with any gentleman
on the right of France to a& upon the fame princi
ple with us, as we by treaty granted Great Britain
the Mberty of doing.
The amendment now before us liriket me, to
present itfelf in three points of view, and to each
of which 1 objeil; First, it ascribes ail the misfor
tuues, deorepations, and ca'amities to the British
'treaty, and expofet it in that view to the world.
It has been fufficiently demonflrated by the gen
tleman from South Carolina, that if the British
treaty had never had existence, the ground of com
plaint would have been the fame, and that they
have nevtr been abandoned to the present time.
The French government inform us, that those
three complaints form but a small part of the long
catalogue ef crimes they can alledge to our charge,
and these by the amendment we seem inclined to
acknowledge. But they also fay that our judicial
andlegiflative a<Ss,and an infinite variety of others
which they fay America hit pra&ifed to her injury
and, that until these are removal, they will not
come to terms of accommodation, and gentleman
here fay, they will grant it, without even attempt
ing to cornradid the assertions; they certainly
ought to wait the issue of negociation, which the
President has promised to parfue. But gentle
men seem to take it for granted, that the President
prevaricates. —that he will not negociate although
he hat engaged to do it. They fay the Britilh
treaty is the sole cause of the grievance. But the
French reprefeut it, at only one cause, and without
the whole it removed, they will not admit our mi
nister, we mult then not only nullify the Britilh
treaty, but we must inftru«Sl our judicial officert to
remove their part of the grievance; we must per
nrit the French to arm in our poitt, to fight against
nations with whom We are in amityWe arete
bring war into our cities, while our hands are tied;
admit them to fell their prats in our country, and
by these meant make enemies of thole -with whom
we are now at peace, under their imperious com
mand:—Thay will take out of our harbours their
enemiet' ships, because their jufifdiction i* para
mount ; —we must give orders to all the Almanack
printers in the United States, to place their minif
ter't name firft among the lift of foreign ministers.
But 1 object to the amendment also on another
ground, it feeais to melo create unneceflary apol
v .ogies for the French, and because it exprelles con
traction in itfclT, it g»es further, it fcems studi
ously to lay the whole blame upon our govern
ment ; it has followed up the blanie taft upon utby
the French, that wehave.notfont anumiler cxtia
ordinary with proper functions, &c. and having
omitted to da thit, our government is chargeable:
many apologies have been brought forward by
gentlemen to endeavour to clothe this conduct to
appear fair ; but notwithstanding their display of
oratorical ability on thi* point, I am nc: convinced.
I only appeal to the feelings of this house on the
injection of our mirtifter. Gar.tlcir.cn in general
fay that we oujbt not to go to war, that we ought
rather to fufier indignity. If they had ftopprd
here, if indignity had been all, and our dearest
right bad not ieen involved, I should heve found
Ao difficulty in agreeing with them- With them,
J will f»y that 1 »m not for war.
The gentleman from Maffachuletts, (Mr. Free
• man} has road a piffle- frotn Vattel to prove that
they have only exercised their right ■ and he hat
ftiii that republics in particular have a right to
Tend away foreign jtuitiftera, when they have no
thing for them to do. But can rhe gentleman put
hisCnger upon the place mthe law ot nations or
good manr.-rs, wheti any nation, has rejected a
foreign iciniller wiihont giving him an cuJience—•
rcfufed a palTport out of the • tatc, and tven there
after put b.iu under the juriUiSiou of the civil
laws ? 1 aGc tiie gent en .an on this oceaGofi, for I
am at a lof'. to know, What could be the reason ?
Hat Mr. Pinckney departed from hiviaflruAiotrt f
Gcatlemen f«e:n t-j talk abcut fehd.ng an extraor
dinary miailltr tt> Francs : lam lo* it too, but
what have wc to do with thit J 't i» better be-,
earning us to le*ve that to the PreiiJc-t. He may
lend Mr.Pinclmey with extraordinary p-vrer , or
an j other miniver, bat thu v-'Ui no: fitiify the
cf the French tfe'r .!rrh-.tis_reetn of g
Aich a mongrel kind that it is cifficliii to conceive
them. I know no other way froiia the leal! idea I ,-
have of their demands, than to call Mr. PiiicknCy
on this fide dt the athntic, giv'uig him the lame
power as before, but cail him.a minister extraor- t.'
dinary. This v/ord rxraAOun kaut is a very ti
extraordinary one indeed. This is an kutuaok- C(
iUnaiiv enailingof Congref-i, on an- extraordina- ,
ryoccaGon, to (end a minister <xt'.aar.Unary, and
we all this while at*e in a moil ejtraordin;vy man- a
ner exercific'g the executive power., in our intend- tl
cd directions thi PrcGdent. o
It is a:"i opinion. Sir, that by offering to the
French the fame footing on which Great Britain is
put by the treaty, they will abandon all their
ground of complaint; can thi. J'uwpofetl r
when they fay they have a"commuq ty of priviteg- c
es." That they claim—if we nave granted privi- f
leges to great Britain they "have a to the latne,
therefore what they can and wiil take as a matter |
of right can be no grievance in ojr.not granting it
freely. Bat the geatlemttn from Pennsylvania 1
thinks they recede from font 5 ground of complaint; a
but what particular ground ? should we go to them (
and give up all into their hands with tubmilfion j
and not fay they have done wrong,and aik redress?
lardy we ought to do it, ellc where is our neutral
■ ity.
But the third which I mentioned is Hill more \
objeflionable, because it is interfering with he ,
executive powers. I will not contend though I
do not doubt that it is a violation 6f the conllitution
but confine it merely to the ground of prudence.
What are we attempting to do ? Why to prove •
i that there is not that unanimity in the govern- t
, ment which thoy have been thought to have ; it is ,
. to prove to the world that this body cannot trust .
. the executive with the power of negociation, al
. though he has declared he ncans.to prosecute nego
ciation, yet Gentlemen seem inclined not to believe ]
him; they will fay that he is about to involve the
, country in a war, and not prosecute any amicable j
f adjustment with the French. If this is not evident
ftom the amendment, I am at a lo(s to know what
is: and if not from it, the obfecvations of Gentle- :
. men prove the assertion
s According to an observation made, the
■ government is like a clock, that if one part
' does not do its duty, the other part will
! compel it. What does this evince ?
[ That if the President means hostility, the
t House will prevent it ; —That the House of
Representatives take it for granted that the
" Prefikent has done wrong—that contrary
| to his own inclination to do usjuftice they
" will compel him—that the Representatives
i of the People being in favor of the French,
: and take their part, they willnot regard their
1 plunders and their violations of right —while
they fay we are right, fay the French, we
t will not regard the other parts—we will in
- crease in our demands while they are on our
' fide.
: Another gentleman from Pennsylvania,
j /ays, that he thinks the President waits for
inftru&ions from the House.—So then the
- President and Senate have not wisdom e
c nough. Although I have heard of the
I House of Representatives monopolizing all
t the power ; I never heard that they ever pos
sessed all the wisdom of the three branches,
i But it is alked, may we not express our
" opinion upon this occasion ? I think we
J may as individuals, but not as a body, and
r if as a body not in this obligatory kind of
o manner.
s There is another amendment, which is
" not taken lo much notice of as others. I
n have said that the arguments of gentlemen
n seem to be predicated upon a supposition
that the question is a declaration of war—
o It is easy to conceive that the greater part
II of the observations has been distant from the
fubjeft, and while goingon thus, they might
j have talked forever, and not been nearer to
i- a decision, like a writer, I have seen,
h fecn, who fays, " where the tongue is let
loose in the phrenzy of pafiion, it is the
y man and not the fubjett that is exhausted."
cj I have heard but one opinion on this fubjedj
,g —I have heard war deprecated from every
e, part of the house ; no man is willing to go
0 to war. The gentleman from Pennsylvania
11 has alked, if we liked to be tax.ed ? Whether
y the people would like to be plunged into an
it unnecessary war i Ido not think the people
n would like taxes, and as much disapprove
of war would abominate an unneceflary
on?. We all want peace, but we differ a
c_ bout the means to preserve it. I believe the
it best way to preserve it is to let the Executive
;h go on their own way in the aft of negocia
lh tion, while we prepare means of defending
our country, that while we are not willing
j. to accede to any a£l,of offence we will
fli prepare the most effeftualmeans of defence.
to I ask, is there any reason to expeft war ? I
' ft believe not. But gentlemen fay, it is pro
bable ; it may be. Ido not confide in any
extraordinary negociation, but though I do
id not think it will be efEeitual, lam still wil
m ling to try it. My principal hopes centre
™" in a change in the fpiritand legislature of the
French Government. When they come to
ck refledt on the indignities committed towards
if- our Minister, and those of 13 other nations
"• whom they have expelled, they will recall
" what they have done, and not from negoci
n" ation, nor our determination to defend our
li- rights and honor.
n- I have been sorry to witness so much paf
by fion and partiality (hewn on both fides of the
a " question.—We did not come here to advo
'es. cate the part of France, or of Great Bri
by tain ; it will be time enough to talk of that
16 if a more ripe part of the fubjeft should be
of presented. If gentlemen had not introdu-
ced. the extensive arguments they have, and
ril j to no purpose, we ihould have been through
bt the question before now.
'ed I shall again mention, that lam for pro
viding a suitable defence, although I should
nd not be willing to leave this city until the
' house had paid proper attention to the mili
:e- tary, and put us on ground of defence. But
tat in my measures with the French Republic
> r '» I would beformoderation, notonly in words,
to but in a£h'on«, which speak louder, and not
iut indulge that phrenzy on cither fide, which
or tnuft naturally be attended with unpleasant
a efFc&s. On the whole, I must express my
- disapprobation of the amendments.
r 'j Mr. Sewall claimed the indulgence of
'l the committee for some observation in
11 which he should be as brief as pofiible, on
* ? tilt* interesting occalion ; he had said inter
,r" efting without having in his mind the efli
ut mate oj it, which some gentleman had cx
preffed. He did not consider that ti»e fate
or of the United States, as to peaceor war with
lie the French Republic, depended in any de
gj-»c upSn tlie prifent deliberation—"-He a
thought the pre ic nt question, however, fuf- w
ficieiit'.y interesting, when he considered that b
the determination of it would go far to (hew ir
the disposition of the Hollfe of Reprefenta- C
tives is to a provision for the defence of their ti
country, when in p.ftual danger from a for- t]
eign power. He observed this extraordin- c
ary session of Congress to be oqcafioned by f
the dangers which threaten the United States \
on the fide of France. The President had c
informed them that in consequence of the c
complaints of that republic, and their out- v
rageous depredations on the property of our a
citizens, « refpeftable arr.baffador had been t
sent to them, that the object of his million r
as expressed in his lettes of credence had f
been " to maintain that good understand- {
ing, which from the commencement of the f
alliance had fubiided between the two na- ]
tions ; to efface unfavorable impressions ; i
banish suspicions, and re do re that cordiality \ ]
which was at once the evidence and pledge t
of a friendly union," and his inftruitions
were to the fame effect, " faithfully to rep- 1
resent the disposition of the government, 1
and the people of the United States, their i
disposition being one, to remove iealbufies :
and obviate complaints, by (hewing that i
they were groundless, to restore that mutual i
confidence, which has been so unfortunately i
and injuriously impaired, and to explain the
relative interests of both countries, and the
real sentiments of his own." ,
Yet this peaceable messenger has been re
je£ted without a hearing, has been threaten
ed and insulted, and has taken refuge in
another country. The complaints of France
have been long heard and understood ; they
have been answered by the departments of
state of the United States, and the answer
remains without reply: but (lie goes on
with her depredations, and at length (he has
recalled her minister, and driven away ours.
Her open violation of the right of a neutral
nation, not only secured to us by the com
mon principles of the law of nations, but al
so by a solemn treaty, which France claims
to hold in force against us, and fcie contemp
tuous difmiflion of our minister, evince a hos
tile disposition on her part, and that our dan
ger is imminent. At a moment like this, to
find in this committee, among the immediate
representatives of the people, the advocates
of the French* condemning the government
of the United States, and acquitting the
French government, or palliating and excus
ing those violences and insults, of which the
circumstances are too prominent to be dis
guised, this will be proving to them and to
■ the world, that we deserve the charafter of
| us which is said to be prevailing in France,
and which too probably has encouraged
their attack upon us; that we are indeed torn
■ with faftion, and that there is a division be
: tween the government and the people of the
[ United States. To him it appeared, that a
: former tranfaftion, rather than the business
before the committee, had produce'd this de
i bate. Those who were once opposed to the
carrying into effeft the Briti(h treaty, arm
i themselves as renewing that fubjeft, and
, lighten up the yet unextinguifhed fires of
. that tranfa&ion.
r If any thing can prevent the open hoftili
. ty, which is now feared to be approaching,
r or can assure the United States of a complete
> defence, it must be the unanimity of their
t councils, and the mutual and unabatiug con
fidence between the government and the
; people.
' Three of the gentlemen who have advo
f cated the amendment, have gone into very
j labored arguments to prove, that the com
-3 plaints made by France against the United
x States, ought firft to be remedied ; and
r and they urge upon this House immediately
! to condemn the government of the United
e States, and to acquit France.
E This pronenefs to condemn on the one
j fide, and this anxiety to excuse on the other,
- would, in the tranfa&ions of common life,
c mark the conduct of an enemy and not of a
g friend, not even of an impartial judge. In
- deed if they had made good the charges up
r on which the condemnation is to be brought,
y they might be excused for their sincerity,
J whatever might be concluded of their patri
. otifm } but when the charges are inconfift-
I ent, unfounded, and unjust, we are at a loss
. to fay what are the motives -of their con-
Y dust. It is far from being clear, upon what
3 grounds the government of the United States
- is to (land convifted and felf-condemned be
e fore the Dire&ory of France, that the gen
e tlemen who advocate their proceedings, differ
a from each other as to the principles upon
s which they so readily condemn the govem
s ment of their own country. The gentleman
[1 from New-York feledts from among the
i- French complaints, three charges which he
r conceives to be entirely supported upon cer
tain principles of the law of nations, and to
admit of no excuse. The gentleman joins
e him in condemning the government, but de
i- nies the principles upon which the gentle-*
i- man from New-York had proceeded, and has
it never conceived them to be a part of the law
e of nations. Another gentleman from Penn
l- fylvania, with that caution and argument
d which diftingui(hes him, relies upon one on
h ly of the the three charges, and upon this
he thinks the government would have been
>- excufeable, if there had been any necefljty
d for a commercial treaty with Great-Britain.
Ie He would proceed to a mofe particular ex
i- amination of the three charges ; but would
it firft observe, that when the gentleman from
!c New-York could folett only, three of the
i, many complaints of the French republic as
>t deferring attention, and had rejected all the
h others, tho' urged by them with equal feri
it oufnefs and determination, it might natural
y ly have occured to him, that these charges
did not exhibit the real designs of the French
>f —that the real question between them and
n j us was not whether we had forfeited our
n j neutrality by the articles of the British trca
r- ty, of which (he complains, any more than
i-' whether we had done her an injury by our
c- ; law of 1794, orrefpedting the confularcon
:e ' vention, or any other inflance of her'nume
h rous complaints; but the question is, whether
1 the United States (hall be involved and oiade
a party with her in the European war, or j
whether our rights as a neutral nation (hall f
be submitted to her, and we should violate t
in conformity to her wishes, our treaty with t
Great-Britain. In his opinion it was that t
treaty which had excited thi complaints of t
the French, but not as applied to any parti- 1
cular it ; no, it was the treaty it- I
felf, andbecaufe the United States had there- <
by forfeited their neutral ground, and* be- <
come more able to bjffle the inftdious dsfigns' i
of France, for involving us in the European
war. He would fubmil it to the committee i
and to their own recolle&ion, whether from ;
the coming of Mr. Genet, the French have c
not been iilceffantly endeavoring to drive us i
from bur neutrality, and to engage us in the
projefts of war : even the gentleman from <
from Virginia, who so warmly advocates the i
French complaints, acknowledges this ; but
if it were not acknowledged, it would be im
poflible to refill the evidence which exists at
this moment.
He conceived the charges to be examined
were immaterial to the prcfent question, he
had thought that an address to the Prcfident
in answer to his patriotic and animating
speech, might have rested upon the love of
our country, which must exist in the House
of Representatives ; that it would have been
given spontaneously and with one voice,
(hewing that we were aware of the dangers
which threaten us, and we thought only of
the necessary defence.
Notwithllanding his opinion that the
charges were irrelevant to the present quef
yet, as they had been brought into view,
they ought not now to be dismissed without
an answer.
The firft charge is that by the article of
the British treaty, the principle is admitted,
that free (hips do not make free goods, and
the gentleman from New-York fays, thst
there is no amelioration of the effe& of this
principle, and that it is a surrender of our
neutral rights; and he will have it that by the
law of nations free (hips make free goods,
and defies the contrary to be (liewn. If
there (hould be an examination of books of
. acknowledged authority in the purview of
. the law of nations, their decision would un
i doubtedly be against him. The law of na
: tions may be considered in its origin as the
law of nature determined by the reason and
common consent of mankind, and applied to
: the conduit of nations, who are to each
other as individuals in a state of nature. If
: such a state may be fuppefed, the individu
• als in it are governed by their own natural
i reason and sympathy, and being without
' any common arbiter or judge, if an injury
, happens, it is revenged by force, and so a
[ mong nations, injuries produce a state of
i war. Then each party in the war aims at
. conquest, for the purposes of securing domi
• nion, by lessening the means and power, or
l by the deftruftion of its adversary. Hence
i is argue 4 the right of every nation at war
- to possess itfelf of the goods and persons of
; the nation which has become an enemy. If
i we can suppose that one nation prosecuting
1 hostilities against another has a right to def-
F troy the persons of their enemy ; we may
readily allow the right of seizing their pro
- perty, thereby to deprive them of the
, means of defence, and to reduce their pow
; er. If this may be considered as the gene
r ral principle, it is for the gentleman to (hew
- the limitation and exception which he con
: tends for, and to (hew some custom, conven
tion, or rule, by which a neutral nation is
- allowed to protest the property of a nation
r at war, from the rights of hostility, and the
- power of its enemy. The armed neutrality
1 is produced as a convention having that ef
-1 fe£t; and it is granted that with regard to
j the nations who were parties to that conven
-1 tion, a different principle was thereby estab
lished and became obligatory upon them ;
e but it could r.ot become the law to those
, nations, who refufed their consent & would
, not submit to it. This is also an answer to
a the gentleman from Pennsylvania, who rc
- lied altogether upon the armed neutrality as
i- constituting the law of nations, and he men
, tioned Great Britain as acquiescing in that
■, convention, but in this he was mistaken.
i- as between the United States and Great
- Britain, then the law of nations in this par
's ticular must be understood to have been that
i- free (hips do not make free goods ; and as
t a belligerent power has a right to seize the
s goods of its enemy wherever found, a neu
tral vessel caiinot protest them, unless by
i- force of some treaty to that effeft. Indeed
r the law was formerly carried to a much
n greater extent ; for a neutral vessel foujd in
i- the poffeflion of an enemy's goods, was for
n merly considered as infe£ted, and was con
e demned as well as the enemy's property on
e board ; but the principle has been modified
•- in this refpedt, and now it is agreed, that
o the enemy's property (hall be prize, and that
is the neutral vessel (hall go free.
Taking it then to be the law of nations,
as far as it is generally established, that free
is (hips de not make free goods, this article of
iv the Fritifh treaty affords to France no just
i- cause of complaint. The value of the con
it trary principle to the commerce of the Uni
i- ted States, leaves no room to doubt the in
is tents of their desire and endeavours, to ob
n tain it as an article of their commercial trea-
Y ty with Great Britain. If their attemprs
l. were ineffe&ual, it. would not be contended,
[- that the treaty ought to have been refufed,
d or the hazard of war incurred, for the fake
n of this principle. , He observed, that the
le gentleman from Virginia had admitted the
is law of nations to be as dated by Vattel,—
ic and as now argued ; but, fays the gentle
i- man, though the principle is well eftablifh
-- ed yet the application of it is wrong; tor
;s although an enemy's goods may be liable,
h yet it is a violation of a neutral right, to
d enter a neutral vessel for the purposes of
ir search or'feizure : But the gentleman hiring
l- admitted the principle, mull yield also what
n is necessarily connected with it. The gen
ir tleman from New York argued, th3t ad
i- mitting it to be the law of nations, the U.
j- States (fcould not have agreed to the lift, ef-
T tabiiffting it, because unnecessary, and it is
fe made without any amelioration of the sub
jc£ts ; to this he answered, that there is
fomithing favorable to the United States in
that stipulation : If a veflel is taken or cap
tured on just suspicion of having on board
enemy's property, or of carrying to the en
emy. any of the which are contra
band of war, the veflel is to be carried to
the neatest port, and after the cafe is deci
ded, the vend (hall be liberated to proceed
on her voyage. Besides it has been long
usual to introduce a stipulation to this ef
feft, in commercial treaties, probably with
some reference to what has been mentioned
as having been the moll ancient'rule ifi the
cafe, and thereby to provide for the resto
ration of the neutral veflels and goods,
which are not to be- efteetned to be infefted
or rendered liable tc confifcation by the en
emy's' property found with them. There
remains another charge brought against.the
United Stares, and which ils represented to
be of a very henious nature indeed. The
gentleman from Virginia had spoken of it as
a (lain in the annals of American hiflory,
which nothing can obliterate. Itis said to be
not only a stipulation Unfavorable to France,'
but that we had contrived a me3ii pecuniary
advantage to ourselves, from a facrificeca
our interests.
To this he observed, that if it is the el
iding law of nations, that an hoflile nation
has the right of reducing its enemy, by pre
venting neutrals from carrying provisions
into a blockaded port, then this article has
given an advantage to the commerce of the
United States, and is therefore favourable
to the FrcCich Nation. The rifle of a voy
age in which supplies of that kind are under
taken to be carried, are materiallv Ironed
by this article. There can be no doubt that
in the cale of a blockaded or inverted place
provisions are liable to seizure : but when
our veflels are taken going to such place,
the full value of the provisions, with a rea
sonable profit, freight and demurage is to
be paid.—This then is an heinous offence,
the difgraee of our country, which the gem
tleman endeavours to eflablifh. He has ar
gued that this article neceflarily admits the
practice of the Englilh, which they claimed
to maintain by the law of nations, and had
pursued against the United States ; but
which they had never ceased to complain a
gainst; thst is, the aflumed right of forbid
ding the carriage of provisions to a large ex
tent of territory, under pretence of some ge
neral invasion, or of the particular nature
of the war, in which it was their design to
reduce their enemy by famine—and this the
gentleman from Virginia included, from a
supposition that the cafe of blockade or in
vestment is provided for by another article in
a diftinft manner from this ; but there is no
diftinft provision of this kind, and what is
said of veflels which happen to fail for a port
belonging to an enemy, without knowing
that the fame is beficged, blockaded, or in
verted, connects itfelf with the former part
of the fame article, and may be rather under
ftoodto limit the intention of the whole article,
than to give a largerextent to the formerpart.
It is plain, however, that the whole article
supposes no other cafe than what arises un
der the existing law of nations, which in the
cases provided for by this article, was not
precisely agreed, and it is not denied, that
under the pra£lice of the Englilh, of which
not only the United States, but Denmark
aud other neutral nations had complained.
, And even in this view it is juftifiableas tend
ing to leflen the evil, to encourage the com
merce of provisions, and to avoid a war with
Great Britain, which the severer exercise of
her claim might excite. What in the exist
. ing law of nations, mull in any cafe of cap
i ture be determined by the courts of law
. having a maritime jurisdiction, and as the
Englilh praftice of seizing provisions in the
; extensive manner contended for by them, had
never before been allowed, as it is not al
| lowed by this aft. The letter of Mr. Pinck
i ney, 011 this fubjeft, and which has beeit
. so triumphantly quoted, as determining the
i law, does not deny the right of flopping
. provisions, from going to a blockaded port,
but denies the conftruftion by which the
Englilh had endeavoured to maintain their
novel and unjuftifiable praftices, and it is of
this Mr. Pincktiey complains.
These complaints may be also fairly an
-1 fwered together by observing, that if there
had never been a treaty with Great Britain,
and Ihe had maintained the fame condudt
towards us as the treaty authorizes refpett
[ ing narions with whom (lie is at war, the de
privation to France would have been the
1 fame, and the only alternative to the United
States mud have been war, or a fubmifiion
to the conftruftion by Great Britain of the
[ law of nations, and from which her superior
[ force prevents an appnaL As tp the in
crease of the lift of erticles deemed contra
band of war, it was no violation of neutral
ity, even determining by the convention of
, the armed neutrality: here the evidence from
: that convention concludes-agamft those who
F would eftablifli this complaint. It plight to
; be undeiftood that the declaratian of the
King of Denmark, a part of thai
convention, relies upon his treaty with Great
Britain, and which exprefles and makea
contraband the fame lift which are enumera
. ted iq her treaty with th« United, States.
(T c be ccntinued.)
t . .
! For Sak,
That <wc!lhiotvn place, called KjitrvnaitiFl's
> Fitiv,
ON N*fe<msisy crer!:, 18 r>'t!es from Fhfls
ladeipbia, on the New York post rostf*
containing 74 aeiet and 94 perches. Upon the
premifeaarea large two fleiy fione house orcn
> pletl as a tvrr n, andagoodoneftoryflonrV.it
) chfn, a_brpe frameftible tritkag'od threlhinr
f and l<nnv out buildings—also a well of
, good-water, and an excellent ice House. On
' this place is a most elegant fituilion for a gentle
man « feat, commanding a view of the Neftiatn
" inytciujunflion wiih the Delaware, and thence
" acrofa to the Jerft y fliore. It has the privilege
• of ore hjlf (he toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the S»bf«ribtr,
s MOBDECAI LEWIS.
- " Vay 34. Stawtf,