of the HiPhiladelphia Daily Advertiser.
N'JM3ER 1470.J
F° r London,
THE &HIP o
vWILLIAM PENN, <•
"Jjmss 'fosiAH, Master. _
WILL fail with all convenient speed. For
ireight orpaflage apply to wat
JefJe isf Robert Wain. '" b f }
The owners of Goods in the ftip William t j lei
'fenn, axe requsfted to Head their permits on board m
as soon a, uofflbla. pay
May 19 ■ S abl;
, of
For Charter, _>
The Ship
J^R IA L, A
;£*rorll John Tjkttt, Maflcr,
OvV lying it Albertfon's wharf, South- w j t
w4 rk —burthen 3300 barrels, in compleat on
order to take in 1 cargo. Lan
For terms apply to _ adt
Gurney & Smith.
May ts vai
r-— —— -
United States, ]
Pcnnfylvanta DifiriH,\
Notice is hereby given,
TH AT in parfaanee ol a writ to m« dire&ed H
from the honorable Richaid Pete*», Esq.
Tudzc of the Diftrid Court of the United States an<
in and for the Pennsylvania Diftrift, will be ex- an '
posed to sale at the merchants' coffce-hcufe in th.s " r
city, on the 17th day of this instant, way, at 11
o'clock at noon,
The Schooner or Vtjfel called
WmSg& THE BETSEY,
With all and Angular her tac- of
kel, apparel and furniture (whereof an inventory da
may be leen at my office) the fame having been by
libelled against and condemned in tht said DiftriA ire
C«urt, for the payment of mariner's wage*, &c. p 0
William Nichols, Marshal. llj
marshal'S ornc 7 eoI7M
17th May. 1797. S nc
For Sale,
The cargo of the brig Enterprize, Captain
Langdon from Bourdtaux, now landing at
Morton's wharf,
consiting o»
hhds. of Claret ~
7 eases of ditto -g
,00 cases of Sweet Oil 13 •£ A
„o pipes London proof \ 3 |
10 pipes of Holland proof > 11
Apply to
Wharton & Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
KT Said brig will take a freight for the Weft
Indies or Europe, fails fait, burthen about fifteen -
hundred barrels, is in complete order, and will j;
bl rwdy to receive a cargo in a few days.
Apply as above.
May a 4 y
23d May, 1797. tl
THt Mail for Baltimore will b« ciofed at this of. b
sice every morning (Sundays excepted) »thais pad 7 t
o'clock. , , , ,
The Mail fir Boston will be ciofed every day
(Sundaysexceptsd)at i« o'clock noon ; and
The Mail for Frederica, Milford,Clowes, Dajjfbo- -
Delaware, Horntown, AccomackCourt-Houfs
and Northampton Court-Home, Virginia, will be
doted every Monday morning at half pad 7 o'c ocic.
May 23.
'TO BE sold,
And possession given immediately, "
A Lot of Land; t
SITUATED in Mount-Holly, in the'eounty j
of Burlington, in New-Jersey, lately occu- '
pied by Francis Bullus, Esquire, upon which ara '
an excellent brick house, twoftories hit'h, with |
four convenient rooms on each floor, also a good
flable, carriage house and other buildings. The
fhuation is valuable for hufinefs of any kind, and 1
at lealt equal to ar.y other in the town.
Tlie terms of payment will be made easy to
'the purchaser. Apply to William RofTcll, Esq.
.trlrc, John Perry, or Richard Coxe, merchants,
■in Mount-Holly, or to the Snhfcnber, fn the city
ibi Burlington.
JOSEPH M'ILVAINE.
Burlington, 17th April May 5-
~~~ JuJi Imported,
IN the (hip Woodrop Sims, Capt. Hodgfon,
from Canton, and for sale by the Subscrib
er, at Mrs. KinfJy's, corner of Second and
Pine-street,
Hvfon
Ilyfon Skin (Teas all frelh and of
Young Hyson and v excellent quality.
Gunpowder j
Also,
A few Nankeens.
C.HAIGHT.
April 17 •
JOHN CRAIG
HAS Just imported from Rotterdam, via St.
Tho mas, and for sale on reasonable terms
;by thrpackage,
Platillas Royal
Haerlem and German linens
Roueni
Poll and ProPatri* Paper
Wafers ■ _
Quills
Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles
Coffee Bags
' He has also for Sale,
Bell Red Clover Seed
Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use
Teneriffe Wine of firft and second Quality
Coffee in Bags and Hoglheads
Jamaica Spirits
Turpentine Soap
Window Glass
Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Cotteu
Hosiery
April 18.
Received by the lndoltan,
From Madras,
A SMALL invoice conMling of the following
Coift Good«, via.
Blue Cloths
Long Cloths, 14 punjums
Do. do. fi-ie
Madrafi Handkerchiefs, and
Book Mujici
WILLING FRANCIS.
, March 17.
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, MAT 25, 1797.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
At the Merchants' Coffee house, in Philadelphia,
on the 15th. day of Jane, at 8 o'clock in the
erening/if not before disposed of at private
sale,
40,931 1-2 acres of land, on the
waters of Wheeling aud Filhing creeks, in Wafti
ington county, Pennsylvania. The foil is .remark
ably fertile ; and betides a large l.ody of "meadow,
there are con&derable improvements oil the pre ,
mife». These land> were patented in 1787. On J
payment of part of the purchafc money, a reafon
abl» credit will be given for the reCdue. Enquire
of the printer.
May 15- S IS
To be i'old at private lale,
A TWO story dwelling house and lot of ground
in the city °f Burlington, state of New-Jir
fey, in a hsalthy and pleasant situation. Tha
house it of brick,containing four good sized rooms,
with 4 convenient kitcheu and cellar. The lot,
on which is a liable, &c. contains about an acre of
land of thsbeft quality, with a fraat fußicient to
admit two ot three large houses, independent of
tliat part at present occupied by the house.
For further particulars enquire of Joseph M'll
vaine, Esq. in Burlington, or Jefeph Reed, No.
»14, High-street, Philadelphia.
May 12. coivr ■
The Commiflioners
FOR carrying into effedl the TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendlhip, Limits, Q a
and Navigation, between His Catholic Majelly
and the United States of America, hereby give in
formation to allPerfons therein
in ordtr ta terminate all d.fferences, on. account of
the leffes fullained by the Citizens of the.United
States, in consequence of their Vessels and Car'
goes having bren taken by the Subjects of His Cath
olic Majesty, during thd late War between Spain
and France, that they are ready to receive (at their
Office, between the hours of ten and one o'clock, j
daily) all complaints and applications, authorized
by the said Article, during Eighteen Months,
from the day of the date hereof, and that they have
power to examine ajl such persons as some before
them, on oath or affirmation, touching the com-
plaints in question, and also to receive in evidence,
all written teftimory, authenticated in such man
ner as they Ihall think proper to require or admit.
By Order of the Commissioners, I
PETER LOHRA, R
Secretary.
CommiJJioners Office, AO. 109, Mulberry- 1
jlrent, Philadelphia, May tTlb, 1797.
20—$4W ca
Just received, | -
And for sale by Isaac Harvey, jun. No. 5, South i
Water-street,
A parcel of prime Rice; also, I /,
Trinidad and Cayenne Cotton
Coffee in Barrels and Bags J s
Spanish Hides and Beef.
4th mo. »5, 1797. <*4W I
' P
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turn- H
pike Compaay. c
A meeting of tie Stockholders of the Phila-1
delphia and Lancaster Turnpike Company, will I f
be held at the Company's Offiee, on Monday, j
■ 10 o'clock* the 12thJune next. I -
WILLIAM GOVETT. Sec'ry. i
May it. , (t . fr4W.
Maurice Moynihan,
No. 81 1 North SecondJireet, J I
A few doors above Arch-street,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
for wholcfale or retail, on the lowed terms, a I
general affortraent of Queen's Ware, gilt and cut j
tumUUrs, plain and ft iwered quart, pint, half pint 1
y gill and half gill do. ex ail measures, decanters and
i- wine glafles ; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint I
3 howls, and chi' a in f«ts and separate ; pocket |
h bottles: Schuyikill and Jersey country quart and j
d half gallon bottles ; Dr.y Goods, &c. &c.
f N. B. Crates put up with cars at the fharteft no- j
d tICC " j,r
May 11. dtl
j O . For Sale,
i> board the (hip Mollv, John Frost, mailer 1
y U from Liverpool, at Walnut-ilrect wharf
6000 bushels of fine ftoved Salt,
And QUcEN'S WARE, well aftorted,
By PHILIP NICKLIN Co.
WHO HAVF. IN STORE, ALSO TOR SALE,
i, 100 Boxes WhittHavatma Sugars
3- Imperial and ?fe A s
id Hyson 5
17 tubs Quick si Iver
ichefts Baridanno Handkerchiefs
of A few cbefts Manchester Goods well afiorted
in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, muHinets, I
dimities, ate. » Trunks black sewing silk,
180 Crates queens ware, well assorted,
10 Tons iheet lead,
Nails assorted, flat and fturp points,
London particular and ) Madeira Wine In I
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Teneriffe Wine,
10 pipes choice Port ditto,
s ' 31 calks yellow paint,
118 7 boxes 1 z bundles writing slates,
1 box ink-ftasds & note presses,
Sail canvas assorted No. 1 a 8.
Miy 4- fM j
Rofs & Simfon,
Have for Sale,
A QUANTITY OF PRIME
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lilbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Mideira Calks
A few Quarter Cherts best
Frefti HyTon and ) TP AS
Hyson Skin 5
Muscovado Sugars in Hoglbeads, and
1,811 Coffee in Tierces
arch 7.
~ Etfkine's View of the War.
ing JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 Sou:h Second ftrect,
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
3. By the Hoaorib'x Tho::as Ersxise.
ir. Hay ij *
By John Fen no, N o ' 119 Chef nut Street.
Millinery Room,
No. 136 Matkit Jireet.
MISS CHSTSTAL vo
TAKES an early opportunity <f acquainting an
her F/iend» that she has received by the pe<
William Penn, a variety of NEW MUL.- St "
LIN'ERY, &c. which (he hopes tc ke able to
fli-w them in a few days.
May 18 s3ot
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST fc id proof,
Gin, of 4th praof, io pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints arid half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different lues _
Hazlenuts, in sacks
Whiting
aa £
Sc. Spanish Brown J
Eor Sale by x
PETBR BLIGHT. \
January 4 ' }. ft
Now Landing, IC
At Pratt's wharf,
FROM on board the fliip Thomas Chilkley,
Capt. Rafcr, from Bourdeaux,
CLARET incaft*
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar g (
Red Skins in boxes
For Sale by
Rundle Sjf Leech. F
May 15 $
Important Public Document. r
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED, P
And for Sale v
At the Office of the Editor sfthe Gazette of the j. 1
United States,
No. 119 Chefnut-Street, d
[price onx collar and rirrv cints] p
A FEW COPIES OF THE tl
Receipts and Expenditures p
OF THE UNITED STATES, p
For the Year 1795,
I Being the Latest Peri»d ta which an account
I can be made up.
February at. 5-
To be Sold,
I A three flory brick House, with suitable back
buildings ;
1 QITUATE in Vine-street, No. 88, completely
j O finilhed, and free of ground-rent: It has a
I neat back yard, in which is a cittern, and new
I pump for rain water —commodious cellars are un- J
derneath the whole, in which is a dry well bricked
1 up, that will hold ice. This property is well cal. j
I culated for a boarding house. Far particulars ap
| ply at the premises.
■ 1 Immediate pofleffioß will be given, or so as to
I suit a purchaser.
, I May IJ. Sawtf
Valuable LSitids, Mills,
&c. in Georgia.
On Saturday, the first day of July
next, at 7 O,clock in the evening, at the Cos
• see-house in Philadelphia, will be fold by
3 J * autfion, for a liberal credit, the following
c I estates —
In the State of Georgia.
No- I.
t \ CERTAIN TRACT OF LAND, cent
j I l\ taining 100,697 i-a acres, fitnate in the
j county of Montgomery, formerly the county of
I Waftiington, en the east fide of Ohoory river,
1 and the waters of the Altamaha, and about one
1 mile above the mouth of Pendleton's creek, and
Jin the neighbourhood of MiH creek. The im-
I provements on this tra£t of land, consisting of
j the most complete Grift and Saw Mills in the
:r f southern country, having cost at least 20,000
r dollars within these two years. The timber is
t, of the fineft quality, and the quantity is not to
I be exhausted.
a.
A trail of very valuable land in Franklin
I county, lying on the waters of Oconee, cor>-
I taining about 75,000 acres.
3-
I A trad! adjoining or near to No. 2, contain
-1 ing about 25,00 a acres.
»(i I 4* '
" s Two millions and five,hundred thousand acres
* I of land, being an vndivided part of all that
I trad! of valuable country, including islands, si-
I tuated on the Mobile Bay, Albahama, Fom
Bigby, and Milfifippi Rivers, which was grant-
I ed by the State of Georgia to James Gunn, and
I others, by the name of " The Georgia Coinpa-
I ny", in fee.
I Thirty stares in the Tenr.eflee Company,
I each share being about 10,000 acres, or one four
I hundredth and twentieth part of the said Ten-
I neflfee Company's purchase, being so much of
I the tra<Sl of country, granted by the State of
I Georgia to Matthias Maher and Zachariah Cox,
iu fee.
CCj" This piece of property may, in the op
tion of the purchaser, or his alTigns, be offeied
to Zachariah Cox, for the sum of 175,000 dol
lars, in two years from the 21ft March i' 96,
who is obliged by his special bond, to take the
fame, if offered to him, at that time, and pay
for the fame, within fix months after the expir
ation of the said two years. This bond is l'old
with tne land.
By order of
Henry Pratt, _
;nd Z- T\ F ,T C>U I
f oh" Miller,jun. j- ~ , Qreenlcaf.
John Alhiey, 1 J
'Jacob Baker,
Edward Fox, Auctioneer.
May 15 mwftS
NOTICE.
IF JOSEPH WESSELS, formerly of London,
who came paflenger in the Ihip Faflor, to
Philadelphia, in the year 1794, will apply at
No. 197 Market-street, he will hear of forne
ce. thing to his advantage. .Any information re
fpefling him will be thankfully received.
§ - v »y 12 #
A Lady going to England in the
course of the enl'uing spring
WAN PS aperfon between the age of twenty and
forty, to attend her immediately and on the
voyage if agreeable to ihe parlies; she nmit i>c ol
an obliging difpoittion and good lemprr, will be ex-
pefted 10 iSt in the capacity et a genet.il attendant.
Such a perloo well rrcommc-fcded will be liberally
ticaied and paid—no other need apply. S<
Enquire at the office of this paper. ra
May 93. 31 fj
To be fold cheap,
To close an adventure,
7 Biles Eaftas
1 ditto Coflis
Apply at the Store of k
Mordecai Lewis.
May 16 eotw
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
Company,
May \JI, 1797.
THE STOCKHOLDERS
Mt X THO are in arrears for any funis due on their 1
V V refpeflive stares, are reqoeftcil to pa/ tht ]
fame. '
WILLIAM GOVETT, Treasurer. s;
I io rc>4W
I
Laws of the U. S.
SWIFT's EDITION. m
JuJl Publi/Joed,
Price 6 dollars, j vol. nmo.
I Sold by W. Young, Mills and Son, H. and P'
P. Rice, M. Carey, I<. Campbell and Co. dl
Laws of the United States, K
From the commencement of the Federal Govern- p,
ment to the end oj the Iq/l SeJ/ian of Con- Tt
grefs, which terminated Mirch j, 1797. a<
I r ~T , HIS edition, publilhed under an order of
A Congress of the United States, has many p
I peculiar advjntages. In the former one, each
volume had a separate index, whieh rendered
the reference in all cases, difficult and trouble
some, and in many almeft impoflible. The iit-
I dexes were, moreover, very injudiciously com*
piled. On the contrary, in the present edition,
there is one copious, luminous index, com- S
piled by Zephaniah Swift, Efy referring to J
all the volumes, and comprising in itfclf a com- b
I plete digest of all the laws of the United States. 0
j May 3. w&s7t (1
■ ti
Lajt night for the ftafon. t!
THE LYCEUM,
FOR FREE DEBATE.
AT O'ELLERS' GREAT ROOM. -
ON SATURDAY EVENING, r
May the l"]th. f
WILL BE DEBATED, 1
Is the profejfun of Laiu advantageous to
I society.
After which an addrtfs will be delivered
I from the chair.
Admiflion—one eighth of a dollar.
New Hat and Hosiery Store. ]
JuJl Imported,
I In the skips William Penn *nd Star, from London, snd
now op»ningbl
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
I j\ T his new Hat and Hosiery Store, No. 134,
I A Market ftrect
j An elegant alfortme#t «i silk, cotton and tbreai
'' I Stockings
- I Silk, cotton and thread Glove«
fl Pantaloons, &c. &c.
II Like wife, a handsome afTortment of men's, wo-
I men's, and children's falhionable Hats, fuitablcfor
I tbe Season.
j A confiderabfc quantity of low and mi'ldle priced
j I Hats assorted in cafes,intended for country flares
e j May xj. ta^y
For Sale,
e j That well known place, called VANDKGRift's
l ' I FIRRY,
Nefhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phila
'* I V-J ladelphia, on the New York post road,
e j containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
0 1 premises are a large two ltoty stone houl'e occu-
IS I pied as a tavern, and a good one story stone kit
-0 I then, a large frame liable with a good threlhing
floor, and some out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent iee House. On
n this place is a molt elegant futiation for a gentie
1_ I mm s feat, commanding a view of the Nelham-
I iny toitsjundioi: vviib the Delaware, and thence
I across to the Jersey ftiore. It has the privilege
I of one| half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Sabfsriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
"I May 24. 3tawtf.
TO BE RENTED,
'j And may be entered upon at any time,
' 1 r T~'HATforcibleand wellimprovedwater works
a " 1 X on Brandywine, three miles from the town
of Wilmington, in the state of Delaware;
I CONSISTING OF
ur A large, convenient Slitting Mill,
n-1 Jn complete oider, having several pair of rolls
of I and cutters of every tize.
of A large, Stone Merchant Mill,
*' Having three pair burr stones, boulting works, I
j corn kiln and every other ncceflary apparatus.
I A Saw Mill,
d - I In the best order, and a pair of timber wheels.
6,1 A Smith's Shop and Tools.
I To -accommodate these works there is a large
»>' I commodious stone dwelling house, kitchen and
ir T I wa(h house and a number of dwelling houses
j for workmen, with gardens adjoining ; two large
] stone stables, two stone coal houses, and a coop-
I er's shop, with meadow andpafture grounds.
If the tenant chufes he may have the oppor-
I tunity to purcbafe at? excellent teum of five hor-
I les, waggo». coal carriages and bed, with a
'' j flock of coal in the coal houses fufliciest to raa
-1 nufaiSlure three hundred tons of iron.— Apply to
RUMFORD y ABIJAH DAWES,
No. 7, South Water-street.
CLARET
JkX * ] OF THE
' a o t I Vintage of 1792,
ne- 1 In cases of 14 and 30 bottles each,
re . J FOR s.«n BY
KUNDLE LEECH.
, Mirth 19 ntwl'tf
Canal Lottery,
No. 11.
Scheme of a Lottery,
Authorized by an aft, entitled, " an aft to
enable ;he President and Managers of the
Sch'aylJtill and S*fqueli«Qnah navigation, to
raise, by way of Lottery, the sum of Tour
Hundred TAoufand Dollars, for the purpose
of completing the works, in their aft* of
incorporation mentioned."
V Dollar*
I Prize of twenty thousand doHars, so,oo®
I of ten thoufaud dollars, lo,coo
5 of four thousand dollars each, to
be paid to the pofieflbrs of the five
numbers fir ft our of the wborl on tha
last day's drawing, at which time there
(hill not be less than 'SOO numbers un
drawn, ao,oca
10 of two thousand dollars'each, as,ooo
2D of one thousand dollars each,. ac,oca
43 of five hundred dollars each, ai,joo
too of lw> hundred dollar* each, 10,000
joo of one hundred dollars each, lo,oco
110 of fifty dollars each, 11,000
29503 of five dollar* each, 1 *7«s® 3 _
30,000 Tickets at tea dottirs each. 300,00 a
Six dollars for esch ticket will only be de
manded at the time of fsle
All prraes (hall be paid ten days after the
drawing is fioifhed, upon the demand of the
pofl'effur of a fortunate ticket, fubjeft to a de<
du&ion of fifteen per cent.
Such prizes as are not demanded within ti
months after the drawing i» finifhed, of which
public notice be given, (hall be considered as
relinqnifhed for the use of the Canai Jud applied
accordingly. ,
At a Meeting of the President and Mana
ger* of the Schuylkill and Sufqoehanna
Canal Navigation—and the President and
Managers of the Delaware and Schuylkill
Canal,
Resolved, That Joseph Ball, John Steirunetr,
Standiih Forde. Francis Weft, James M«Cre.j„
John Miller, jus. and William Montgomery,
be a committee to arrange and direst the mode
of disposing of the tickets 1 which committee
(hall deposit this money in bank, to be carried
to the credit of an account to be opened for
the Lottery.
We the Commifiisners appointed by the Go
vernor to superintend the drawing of the Lot
tery, inform the public, that the tickets are
now rolling up, and that the drawing will po
sitively commence on Mondaythe 29th of May
next.
Frederick Kuhl, «
James jQJhy
George Budd.
Philad. April 17, 1797. 2aw
Tickets at fix dollars each to be had of the
managers, cr &a*»l office, near the bank
of the United States. .
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufactured as
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Bsrton Ale
Red Port and other Winet, eithe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-cask or gallon —suitable
for exportation or home confumptioR —
For Sale by
John Haworth.
No. 98 south Front street.
May 18 tI»4W
For Sale,
At this Office,
No. 119 Chrfnvtjlreet,
A few copies of a late Report of a Committee
of the Senate, 011 the fubjeit of the
GEORGIA LANGS.
March 13 §
Caution.
THE Public are hereby forewarned against
trusting the ftep-daugliter of the Subfcrib
j er, and her mother, his second wife. Repeated
mifconduil compels him to forbid any pcrlon to
give them credit on his account, as he will pay
„ 110 debts of their contraifling after this date.
LUNO BROWN.
Philadelphia, May r6, 1797 18—^fthjt
i SWAN N'S
Riding Scbiol, Horse Academy W Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Squire, Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his fmccre thanks tothofe gentlemen by
whom he has been employed, during hisrcGdence in
s this City, »nd Hatteri himfelfthat the facerfs of his
efforts, in the numerous, obflinate and dangerous dif
" cases in Horses, in which he has been consulted, to
gether with his moderate charges, will feeure their
future favors and recommendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public
>t Urge that his spacious and commodious premises,
ere&ed for the purposes above described are open for
the reception of pupils of either sex, who wiftito be
inftruSed in the Art of Riding, and the light method
s of governing their horses, so ss to ride them with
' cafe elegance, and fafety—their horses will be caie
fully and expeditioully broke, forevery purpofe,and
made obedient to he will of the riders j the naiurajl
8. powers which are shut up in them, will be unfolded
by art, calling forth uniformity o( motion, and giving
to that noble animal all those beauties of attion which
;e providence has so bountifully tif (lowed on them,
id Also, at his hospital, every diforderto which the
es horse is liable will be treated according to the rules of
art, confirmed by long and repeated experience.
L The utility of the above institution has never been,
qneftioned, that it has long been wanted in this city,
gentleman's Itud willmanifeft,and T. Swann
r " as the titfteftiblifherof the veterenary att, foDcits and
r " relies upon the fuppottof thai public (which he ia
a ever anxious in serving) to enable him to biingit to
a- perfection. The idea of a fubfeription for that pur.
to pose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who Willi
10 promote the inftitution —the amount of each fub
fcrip*ion to bercturned by services in any of the di
_ profeffes, agreeable to the rate of charge!
Ilated in itis hand bill. Sychftibfcription is now o
pen, »nd the fignstures of many refpeflable gentlemen
already "brained. He therefore injorms hit friend*
and fu< h Ladies and gcntletneo to whom he has not
the honor of being knawn, that he (hall in a few
days ukcthe liberty of waiting upon them aud solici
ting fcbeir fuoportand prote&ioc.
N. B. Horles sre properly prepared for those L»--
di.-sind Geuilcmenwho wilh to be indruQed.
Nov. j. "h<5K.
\VOLVME XIJohnTarris, matter.
AOREA 1 part of her cargo is engaged, and
iht will fail in ten days. For freight or pas
sage apply to capt. Tarris, at Latimer's wharf, or
to GURNET Sc SMITH. '
May 35 §
Lailson's Circus,
South Fifth-Street.
The Performances at the NEW CIRCU3
This Evening, May 2 J(/>,
Will begin by a Gtarid Parade of Equestrian
Performers of both sexes.
The Lofty-Tumbling Group,
Corapofed cf Meffrt. Langley. Sully, M'Doa
ald, the Clown, and Rcano, will execute several
difficult exercifeson the Stage— wiil beplca
fantly decorated.
Mr. M'Donald, in the charafler of Clown, will
perform a variety of Comic Feats.
Mr. Lailfon will perform several new and difficult
exercises, too tedious to insert in an advertisement.
' rn comjili'nce with the general requcft, will be gi-
ven THE DUEL ON HORSEBACK, in a new
and forcible manner.
The trick of the THREE HOOPS, and tha- of
the OLOVE.
Mr. Laihov will leap over a Ribhon in a manner
which ha* never been attempted by any £queftri
an but himfclf Being on his Kneel on the fad
rile, he will pass the Hat under him at the fame
time he leaps over the Ribbon, which makes
thcfc three very difficult feats become one.
After wAich will be presented a French Opera in
one a3, called
La Melomanie.'
In which an Amateur will perform in the charac
ter of Gercnte, the Mclotnane.
The Evcning's£otertainment will conclude with
TJiE TAT I,OR AND HIS HORSE.
W In rehearfal—L'AM ANT JALOUX, a
French Optra imhree ails, in which the fame gen
tl-man who performs in the charaitsr of Geronte,
the Melomane, will perform in that ef Don Lopez.
Box, one dollar. Pit, half i dollar.
The doors will be opened at half pafl five
o'clock, and the performances begin precisely
at seven.
N. B. No petfon enn be admitted in the centre
of the Circus, whitfh, is exclusively appropriated to
the Equestrian Exerfifes.
No person can be, admitted without a ticket,
which will fervefor the day only.
Days of performance, Tuesday, Thursday,
and Saturday.
13ush Hill.
Messrs. Bates and Darley,
Of the NEW THEATRE,
T3 £fpe>3fully inform the citizens of Phi's delphia
ox. and its environs, that they lave taken the
manor h»ufe and grounds of Buffi Hill (the pro
perty of William Hamilton, Esq.) and are now
preparing to open them by Sulfcription, for the
general accommodation and amnfement of the pub
lic, under the name of the.
PennfylvanlaGardens and Hotel.
Particularly duringth« Susiaier foafon, will "b;
given per week)
CONCERTS
Of Vocal and Injlrvmcntal Mvjic %
After the manner o£ the Public Gardens Pari*,
V-nxhall, London, &c. &c.
The Entertainments for the ensuing fummerfsa
for, poji;tuely to commence
IHE FIRST IVEEK IN JUNE. .
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
One Hundred Subfcriberi, at one hundred dollars
each. The money to be r?paid the fubferibers at
ten annual payments of ten dollars each.
And each fujbfciiber to hold a free ticket of gen
eral admifliuu to all public performances in th«
Gardens, for the term of ten summer seasons.
The tickets to be made transferable at the option
of thefuhfcribera, by g ving timely notice to the
Managers, previous to the commencement of v
f«afon, and having the fame registered accordingly.
Subl'criptionsreceived by Messrs. Bates and Dar
ley at Bufli Hill, where tickets the season only,
may be had at twelve dollars each.
Nr B. Admittance to non-fubferibers on each
Concert Nigh:, Half a pollar.
Du: notice will be given of the commmce
*ncnt. May 1$ 5p
Advertisement.
PURSUANT ia an Order from ihe Orphans' Court,
iviULs fotJ at PUBLIC S ALE, at Cranberry, on
IVnlrtcfJjy, tie 14lb day of fune next, all that valuable
SEAL F.ST A lEy late belonging to the Rev. Gilbert
7. Sno-wdtn, tlece fed, lying in and near Cranberry, in
the county tf A/hdlhfc*, torvnjbip of South Brunfocici,.
/late ej Nnu Jersey, upon the loner sage road leading
Jrorr. Philadelphia tj Nerv fori. A very elegant J~rante
bcufe in tz beaut.Jul and healthy situation, pair.ted white,
tenth Vtnetian window thirty feet front and
thirty eight feet deep, two rooms with a bandfawe hall or
eniry on the frfl ftoor t three rooms on the second floor and
two well'fin/jhtd garrets. In t\r rear e>f the hotfe is an
exeellent two-flory building corjifling of a diiirg-tocm fjr
work people, fpatious pantries and a large liltlen % with
every e.nvenienee, and over tbefc are three chambers for
servants. To the right is an additional building confining
tf a chamber below aid a library above—under the while
are very fine cellars paved with brick. The h»ufe is en
tirely new and fmfhed with tajle. Every room is hung
with bells that lead both to tie kitchen aud the fervunts'
apart.nents : there it a pump in the yard; and a flone
and brick pavement round th+whnle hotfe, which is
td MJtib m iandjomt three gatct in front.
The farm itnjijis of cne hundred and fxty frwn acres t
viitb a froftrUm of woodland ar.d metdru/, under excel
lent feret ,■ a garden with sale fence ; a Urge barn, fa
ble:, etrrmgt-knf,, utnu-loufci, allnrw, andbuiU
in tie bejl manner : vtith a ywv orchard of 100 grafted
tre.-i. Nearly adjoining fx,d firm u a lot if 1} i<xtljnJ
ef the left quality, containing j; acres. A'fo a trrif of
had within from miles of Cranberry, cv.t-i--ing one bust,
dsedamd fft] a:,ei, tbrei-fiurtbs mceJcw and tie reft ex- \
etllent timber. Ibis -Will be JcU in Lts or together, as
' will befl fmt the purcbafcrt.
t The payments, cne third tosjb—onc third in cm year— '
Htd the remaining third, one year Joilowing, with enteral
cn tie two last payments, Aid apptoved feevrity.
For further particulars enquire of Nathan,! Hunt,
Ijq. or Dr. Ralph LoU, Cranberry ; cf Jfcae Srowden,
at Princeton ;or of IJaac Smwden, Jam. No. 141 Souti
Seotml freet, Philadelphia.
*5 <jlmiifiS
To be Sold,
7he time of a Nr*ro Mmn,
WHO hat about fix years and an half to
fervr. He it 1 onoft and sober, a toler
able waiter, and underline, driving » carriage.
For term 1 apply at No. nj, bouih Third
Street.
May »i- eod6t-
CH AKLtS I'U.N, May «.
Last Tuesday the following iijdrefs wla
presented, by the Charletton Volunteers, to
their Captain, on the occasion of hia bcin;
about to leava this city, to take hit feat it>
the Congrefa of the United St ites.
To JOHN R UT'LEDGE,jun. Esq. Capt.
of the Charltjlan Volunteer Company.
SIR,
THE members of the Charleston Volun
teer Company, under the painful idea of be
ing feparfcted from a commanding officer who
pofleflea the esteem and confidence of every
individual of that corpt, would be nnjult to
their own feelings, as well at to your merit,
were they lilehtly to past over that event.
It was therefore unanimoufiy tefolved, af
ter you retired from the last meeting of the
company, that a Committee (hould, in their
name, make their acknowledgements to you
for the propriety of your conduit in the com
mand of the company, ever since its firft in.
ftitution, and for your polite attention to ev
ery member of it.
Nocitizens would mors deprecateany unwar
rantable measures being pursued, that might
tend to involve thiscountryin a war, than the
( Volunteer! ; but should the independence of
America ly infringed, or herJawt violated,
they pledge themselves to be amonglt the
foremoll t» fuppott the present Federal Gov
ernment and its laws, against any set of men
or country that may attempt to overturn the
one or trample on the other.
While we finccrely regret the loft which
we ftiffer by your absence, it affords us much
consolation, that the fame patriotism and abi
lities, to which we now pay a just tribute, are
fiill to be employed in the public ferviee in a
poit of mare importance ; and we anticipate
with pleasure the moment wheu thousands of
our fellow-citizens (halljoinwithus in applau
ding your fcrvicea.
Attaehed to you as an officer for the rea
sons we have assigned, and as a citizen for
qualities ire have observed, but which it
might appear adulatory to make mention of,
we take leave of you with thefincrreft wilhe6
for your future liappinefs and honor j and we
trust you will believe us equally sincere when
we declare, that none in the circle of your
connexions will be more happy to welcome
your returu tt> Carolina than the Charleston
Volunteers.
W. Wightman,
James Scott,
S. Magwood.
J. D. Vale, }> Ccmmittce.
J. S. Harbowfki,
James Miller, |
Samuel Theus, J
Chailelton, May 2, 1797.
CAPT. RUTLEDGE'S ANSWER.
Gentlemen,
I THANK the Charleston Volunteers
mod sincerely for their very affeftionate ad
irefs. Although clrcumftanccs have placed
the affairs of the United States in a fituatidn
peculiarly embarraffirig, yet I trust the wis
dom and pradence of our government will
speedily efleft jn honorable adjustment of the
differences which unhappily fubfilt between
us and the French Republic. But it Ame
lica (hall not be permitted to continue a.t
peac», vrrthout fufTeripg a violation of. her
rights, I flatter myfelf her citizens will be
unanimous and zealous in supporting their in
dependense and felf government. They are
too wife not to prefer their interests to those
of any other nation, and much too brave not
to protest with republicao valour and enthu
siasm the liberties for which mod of them
have fought and many have bled to cftablith.
In ihe event of any attempt beißg made to
inhinge or subvert them, I anr. perltaded the
Zealand patriotism of the Charleston Volun
Steers will equal that of any of their fellow
i citizens. Accept, I beg of ybu, gentlemen,
my thanks for the very ready obedience
which every individual of the corps has paid
| to my otders during the fix years I have had
the honor of commanding ir, and for the
j alertness with which they have assembled in
J the firft moments of alarm. The kiad wiß
es you express for my health and happiness
are extremely grateful to me,, and I recipro
cate them very sincerely to every officer and
private of the corps.
J. RUTLEDGE, juß.
Capt. Charleston Volunteeets.
To the Charleston Volunteers.
Chailelton, May 2, 1797.
SAVANNAH, May 9. f )
arrived —ship Sally, Webber, 52 days f£om
Liibon, with whom came pafTcnger Mr. John Mil-
Un of this place, who was a paffcr.ger in the ihip
Diana, capt. Ingraham, bound from Liverpool to
, this port, which was talcon by the French piivateer
!Le Vengeur (owned by Captain William C«w
. ell, of Bcflon) carried into Brcft and condemned
on the bribed evidence of George M'Kenzie, a ne
gro, who had been in the capacity of (leward on
board fail! (hip* The ihip and cargo was Ameri
can property, and principally owned by captain
Edward Shirbreck of this place.
Mr. Milieu, together with the mate and the reft
of the passengers, were confined several days as
Britifti prifor.ers.
' 4
The fo'lowing is a lift handed by Mr. Mii Jen, of
AnuricLns who at present reside in France, and
arc owners and fitters cf Privateers, who are
faiil to be cruising lor the express purpoie of cap
turing American veflels.
Wm. Cowel, John Coffin Whitney, —— Ellis,
Jame* Callender, Samuel Hatch, of Boston ; Tho
mrs Lewis of MarbJehead ;• - Elery, of Cape-
Ann; Samuel Turble, of Taonton ; Piatt,
Gilfon, James Taylor, of New-Rork;
Cooper, ef Virginia ; Peter Wiricfidesof Noriolk.
Saturday cveiAnglaft, arrived in town from FOl t
Fidius condt.dlcd by a troop of dragoons, under the
command of captain F. Webb, William Yaiboiough
Obs'diah Morris, Ephraim Moore and Miel Monk,
who \ ad crofted the Ocouee iwo the Indian lerrito
nes, for the purpose of hunting, contrary lo the
lawsct ;he United State*, they weic taken on the
22d utt. and carried ai prisoner* to the fort, from
whence they were ordered hv the ccmmacding offi
cer, to this placr,to be tried before the federal judge.
Previous to tbeir marching from Fort Fidiui, a con
fidtublt r.amber of the inhabitants of Hancock
c"unty,collcfted in arms, with a lion to
liberate thrm from the guard which was to conduit
them ro if ij place ; b'jt by the inteipofi:ion and par
ticular requft rl the pri [oners, and owing to the ac
tivity of colcnel l.amare,this mob desisted from such
an unlawful pioceedmg and dispersed.
W c arc iiiiormed that his excellency the governor
and col. Gaiter have both written 19 the fedrraj
J®age in their behalf.
NEW YORK, May 21.
From Capt. Bunker's Log-Book.
Tk:following vtffels and Captains •aitre bttit
into different ports in the Iflandof Guada•
loop; during my Jlaj there ;
SHlP—Adolph, Billings, of Philadel
phia, from Surinam bound hom«, 7 days uh
der adjudication, not yet determined.
BRlGS—Abigail, Kerr, of Dover, car
go feqtieftertd, capt. sent home for his natu
ralization, veflcl detained until hit return.
Virginia, Bush, of Alexandria, vcffel and
cargo condemned, from Alexandria,bound to
an English island.
Nancy, Himmo, of Richmond,ditto, from
Richmond to Aniigua. '
Eliza, Simpfon, of New York, ditto, trom
New York to -do-
Six Brothers, Needham, of Salem, ditto,
in ballast fcom Martinique bound home.
Joseph, Taylor, of Alexandria, veUe! clear
ed cargo conderriued, bou«d for Barbadoes.
William, M'Lcllan, of Portland, captain
brought in, vefTel not heard of fincc captur'd,
supposed to he retaken.
cleared, being bound hither.
Hannah, Jeffery, of Niw York, ditto do.
ditto, cleared being bound hither.
SNOW—lfabella, Helms, of Baltimore,
vefTel and cargo condemned, fram Martinique
bound home.
SCHOONERS—Adventure, Compton,
of Baltimore, vefTel and cargo condemned—
from Deraerara bound home.
Milton, Brooks, of New Yoik, ditto,from
Batbadoes to Martinique.
Felicity, Homes, of Baltimore, ditto,from
Norfolk bound to Martinique.
Molly, Millot, of Salem, vefTel cleared,—
cargo condemned, from Demarara bound
home.
Polly, Willis, of Alexandria, ditto, clear
ed, being bound hither.
Those veflels that are cleared, arc deprived
of provisions, stores, books, quadrant, cloths,
&c. and no redress made.
May sth, in fight of St. Martin's, boarded
by an English privateer, called the Barton,
of St. Kitt's, and very handsomely treated.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES,
Monday, May 22.
In a committee of the whole, Mr. Dent in
the'chair, on the answer reported to the Presi
dent's speech.
(Mr. Nicholas's Jpetch concluded from our lafl.)
The difference, Mr. Nicholas said, be
twixt the address reported, and the proposi
tion he had brought forward was this; the
former approved all the measures of the Ex
ecutive, and the latter recommended an en
quit y relative to the operation of the British
treaty. It was this queflion upon which the
committee would decide, and it was of im
portance, he said, that they (hould weigh
thecaufe of difference betwixt us and the
French republic, and hot decide that we are
right, without examination, because if after
beisg brought to hoftiiity, we are obliged to
retradl, it would fitew our lormer folly and
wantOßnefs.
Mr. N. said he would enquire into the
rights of France as they refpefted three prin
cipal fubjeds, which were particular causes
of complaint between the two countries.
Tbefe were the right of our'veffels carrying
English goods, the article refpediing contra
band goods, and that refpedting the carrying
of provisions. He knew no better way to
determine how far we could funport those
articles of the Britilh treaty, than by extract
ing the arguments of our own ministerial
charaflers in support of thtfe measures.
With refpedl to the question of free ships
making free goods, his impreffiuiis were very
different from those of the Secretaiy of
State. He said with refpeft to the regula
tion of free ships making free goods it is not
changing a right under the law of nations ;
that had never been pretended to be a right
and that ourhavingagrced to it in one instance
and uot in another was no just cause of com
plaint by the French government. He ad
vocates this tranfaflion in his letter to Mr.
Adet lafl winter. Mr. N. said 'he knew
not what was the origin of the law of nations
upon the fubjeft ; he knew not how it came
into existence ; it had never been fettled by
any convention of nations. Perhaps, how
fver, the point now under confederation came
as near to a fixed piincipaf, as any other of
what are called the .laws ol nations ever did,
as only one nation in Europe could be ex
cepted from the general underflanding of it.
Mr. Pickering, he thought,-feemed not to
have given full force to this circumstance ;
but seemed to have weakened the evidence.
[He referred to what Mr. Pickering had said
upon the fubjeftj It was Mr. P's idea that
the stipulation of free ships making free
goods, was a mere temporary proviGon ;
that it was not an article in the law of
nations but a new principle inttoduced by
the cantradling parties. In order to prove
this was not the cafe, Mr. Nicholas referred
to the provisions entered into by the armed
neutrality of the north of Europe; to a treaty
betwixt France and Spain, to a note from
the court of Denmark, and to the declara
tion of the United States themselves on the
fubjedt.
In his mind therefore, Mr. N. said, it be
come in some degree certain that this fljpu
lotion was an article of the hw of nations,
and that an abandonment of it, as a neutral
power, was 20 abandonment of neutral
ground.
But, said he let us cpr fider the circum
(lances under which this treaty was made ;
let us fee whether it is the law of nations
or not. It was the intention of the parties
to make the bw of nations as free as in theit
power ; and if we chufe to abandon the'prin
cipal of free ships making free goods, shall
we call upon France to do the fame ? This
did not appear confident with justice.
[uftice seemed to require en oppofne course
If we could not maintain this stipulation with
all the world, we are bound to allow France
the fame privileges whii'j we allow to any
otl-tr nation. It was not for the interest of
this country to irfift upon the fulfilment of
bad treaties, to do which would be a greater .
lofj than benefit. In the treaty with Great !
Britain, we had denied the r!«h r that free
(hips make free goods. it was indeed wholly
up, but we agree that it fhou'id be sus
pended during tke prif.'nt war. He thought
this wrong, and asked if any country, who
granteed a privilege tc one nation which they
refufed to another, could pretend to any
firmnefs in their proceedings ? He thought,
they could not.
With refpedt to contraband articles he had
little to fay. It was aflerted that the arti
cles stipulated in the Britilh treaty as contra
band, were made so by the law of naions.
Where the dedtrinc was found he conld not
Ly. It had been quoted from Vattel; this
authority might be correft ; but he never
found any two writeis on this fubjedt agree
as to this article. In a late publication oil
the law of nations (Marian's) he found it
diredlly afleited that naval (lores were not
contraband. But he said, if the contrary
were the law of nations, they were bound to
extend the fame privilege to France which
they gave to England; they could not have
one rule for the one nation, and a different
one for the other.
The 18th article of the British treaty, re
fpedUng the carrying of provifioni, always
(truck him as a very important one. It had
heretofore been contended that this article
did not go to any provisions except such as
were carrying to befteged or blockaded place*;
but he believed the British had constantly
made it a pretence for seizing provisions go
ing to Fiance. Indeed, if he was not mis
taken, the British minister had publicly de
clared in the House of Commons, that the
provifionson board the vtflels intended for the
Quiberon expedition, has been supplied from
what had been captured in American veflels.
Mr. N. contended that this was the opini
on' of the Executive of this country, as pub
lished in all the public papers, and of course
known to the government of France. In the
letter of Mr. Jeffarfon to Mr. Pinckney in
1793, he declares that there is only one cafe
in which provisions are contraband, and (hews
the ne'eeffity of a neutral nation observing the
fame rules towards all the powers at war.
But, in the present cafe, the right was ceded
during the present war.
It was an unfortunate circumstance againfl
the neutrality of this country to find a doc
trine so differently applied at different times.
It was a strong proof of the progress of the
palllons. It might be confidercd as a frau
dalent thing, in one instance, to give up a
right for a ccmpenfation to ourselves.
But Mr. Pickering, in his ebfervations
upon this circumstance, fays, that thi* flipu
lation is really a beneficial thing to France,
as it encourages mercantile adventures ; Lit
this Mr. N. deried, and said, that TF it en
couraged adventure,it would rffo increase the
facility of captures.
In considering the tendency of the amend
ment he had piepofed, he had not
spoken of the possible operations of agreeing
to the answer, as reported, cfpeciallv when
carried, by a small majority of that house, and
contrary to the wishes of a great part of the
people of the United States. If the measure
were carried by two, three, £ve, 01 ten votes,
did gentlemen expedt that this would answer
their purpose! However the people may
have the virtue to go with the decision of go
vernment, he believed, in a mafute thus car
ried they would obey unwillivly. Yet how,
was this division in opinion to be avoided ?
He did not believe the conduft of the Ex
ecutive of our government had always been
equal to the different powers at war, and
therefore could not fay so. Indeed, he could
not conceal his fentitnents upon the business;
they had frequently been expressed, and were
he now to hold a different language, he might
bejuftly br inded with infamy.
Let fometliing, then, said Mr. N. be
brought foi ward which does not stare in the
face the established ©pinions of many mem.
bers of that House ; but perhaps it maybe
thought of little conlequence what are the
opinions of those members ; but he believed
the people at large were not less divided in
their opinions than the members in that House
—and a measure so carried, he conceived, was
net calculated to intimidate an enemy. He
knew his constituents would go into the war
if direftecj to do so, but they would exercise
the power which the constitution has placed
in them, of difplaeing from their feats the
men who had involved them into such difficul
ties. He knew that if a war was to take place,
that t(ie discontents of the people would in
crease every day. He knew they would aban- 1
don the delisacy and nicety of feeling which
was now urged. He knew it was his duly
to take as moderate ground as was confident,
because he knew the public opinion, though '
now irritated above it, would come down to '
it.
If it were of confcquenee that the people '
(hould enter unanimoully into any hoAile mea
lure which eventually might be found neceflary '
(though he hoped and trulted it would not) he !
thought that unanimity might be l'ecured by a- 1
greeing to thepropofition which he lud moved. ! ■
In making conceflions to England it was not 1 !
considered as difgraceful; what was now wish- ,
ed, wai thai England and France might be pat ;
upon the fame footing with refpeit to this eoun- 1 {
try. To do this was the only way in which :
unanimity could be obtained, and it appeared '
to him that there cou}d be no serious ol>'eisHofi
to it.
It may be said, and probably will, that this
proportion interferes with the business cf the
executive, and that we ought not to diflate to
him wi»h refptil to the proper ileps to be tak- r
en. He vas so well accuitomed to the business '
of the House, that he knew gentlemen would C
entrench themfclves under the pretended reflrie- '
tions cf the conflitution ill this refpcdl ; but it
was his opinion that the measure which he pro- F
poled was ftriftly conftifjtional. The Prefi- v
dent was to negotiate, but it was the duty of the -'
legislature to deliberate on the proper measures 11
to be taken. Government, he said, could neverbe '
carried on, unless the executive and legislature 3
were influenced by the fame fpirii. The Prefi- '
dent might go cn forever to negotiate, if he did c
it contrary to the views of the other branches :
of government, without coming to anyconclu- ''
fioif. It «as ahfolutely neccfeiry, therefore, 1
that such a power (hould tx;A, a in) it w - s n „j
poiTible that any danger (hould arise from it 3
And if i propofhioa of tbis kir.d v.-;; not agreed
. to. they had no evidence toiuppofe very c. nci-
I liatory steps would be taken, they had tial'cn,
, indeed, to suppose the contrary.
He was afr.»id lie might be charged with go
ing into irritating circumstances, but he did not
cx;.c<a, from the persons with whom the Prefi
den: might be l'uppofed to advise, that very mo
dejate iteps would he taken. It was not to be
fuppol'ed i hat tliey would abandon the opinions
they had so ftrenuinfly maintained. He tho't,
therefore, it was the bulinelvof that House to
' fay that- in rheir opinion, it is proper that such
and such steps (hould he taken.
Mr. Nicholas concluded with observing.that
he hid gone over the fubjtft he feared, net
without being considered tetiiousby the commit
tee ; but he felt himtelf greatiy. interelted in
the present decision. He believed any addition
al irritation in their measures, woii'.d place peace
out of our reai h j he believed, therefore, it was
their business to avoid it ; he believed it would
be for the honor and the happine& of the coun
try to do so.
Mr. W. Smith said, a« the pentleinan, last
up had taken a wide range ot arguipent, he must
excuse him, if h? contiued hin.felt in reply to
those parts of his observations only wjfich ap
peared to him effcntially to relate to the iubjeit
uuder consideration.
He believed the quefiion was, whether they
fhculd alter the report in the manner proposed j
that is, whether they ihouid strike out words
which exprefledthe sensibility of this houfe'at the
unprovokedinfults offered by the French Repub
lic to our government and country, or adopt the
gentleman's amendment, which he read.
If they agreed to this amendment, they must
necessarily expert from the French Kepublic freih
insult and aggreflion ; for it seemed to admit that
hitherto no insult had been iatended»
The amendment might be divided, Mr. S.
said, into two parts. The firft went to vindi
cate the French from any intentional insults tow
ards this country ; it even held out an idea that,
the Executive ought to offer some concessions to
France, and even detonated the kind of concef..
fion. He should, therefore, without taking no
tice of what the gentleman had said about the
political parties «f this country, or what he had
said refpeAing himi'elf perfonaily, confine liia
observations to the points in qutftion. ,
The firft point was whether the condudt of
France was juftifiable in refufing our minister,
and ftnding hi ai from the Republic in the man-,
ner they had done ?
He thought the committee had abundant ma
terials before them completely io refute the firft
propofitiou ; and he was furpnzed, knowing
that these documents weie in the hands of every
member, that the gentleman from Virginia cojld
expert to impress their minds with the idea'that
no indignity whatever had been offered by th«
Fremh government to this country in that trant
artion.
Mr. Smith said, that it appeared rroft clearly
that the French Dirertory intended to treat this
Government with marked indignity ; for the'
the gentleman from Virginia fuggetted an opi
nion, that their refufal t» receive Mi. Pinck
ney, was owing altogether te his not being in
veiled with extraordinary powers ; this was e
vidently not the cafe, as the Directory had been
well informed as to the chararter in which Mr.
Pinckney came, before they received his letters
of credence, as appears by the Jetters or M. De.
la Croix to Mr. Monroe, ltiling Mr. Pinckuejr,
bis Succrflhr, and by other documents commu
nicated by the President, (which he read.)—•
There was no doubt, then, with refpert. to the
Dirertory being well acquainted with the cha
rarter in whjch Mr. Pinckney went to France,
viz. as Miniiter Plenipotentiary, or Ordinary
Minister; but after keeping him in fufpence
near two months, on the day after the newsar-"
rived of Buonaparte's fucreffes in Italy, he wai
ordered by a peremptory mandate in writing, to
leave the French republic. This mandate wa»
accompanied by a circumfUftce which was cer
tainly intended to convey an insult; it was ad
dressed as an Anglo-American, a term,
it is true, they sometimes use to diftiuguifh the
i inhabitants of the United States from thole of
the Well-India iflaeds, but, in his opinion, here
evidently designed as a term of reproach, as he.
believed no other similar instance could be men-,
tioned. Upon this circumftanee, however, he
laid no stress, the other indignities which our
minister had received were too great to require
any weight to be giyen to this circumftanee.
But, fays the gentleman from Virginia, after
the Dirertory had l'een his Letters of Credence,
end discovered that he had no power to make
concisions, they lefufed to acknowledge him.
What would he have required his letters of cre
dence to have said ? were theynot " faithfully
to reprefetit the difpofitiou of tiie Government
and People of the United States, cheir difpoliticn
bcing;one, to remove jealcufies and obviate com
plaints, by Clewing that they were groundlefj,
to restore that mutual confidence which had
been so unfortunately and injurioully impaired,
and to explain the relative interests of both coun
tries, and the real sentiments of his own."
W hat raore than this could have been fjtidin
letters of Credence ? But, adds the gentleman,
his InJiruHions did not authorize him t® make a- •
ny concefiion.or to fatisfy their complaints with
refpert toexifting treaties. How dots he know
this > Will the gentleman undertake to fay that
his. inftrurtions uid not give him this power.?
It certainly would not have been proper to have
stated in his letters of credence what he was au
: therized to concede ; or to exhibit to the French
Government his inllrurtions until it was known
what they were difpofrd to do. We had com
plaints to make as well as they. They had
committed fpolhtions on our commerce to a
great amount. Was it right, then to fay in
stantly on his arrival, « I am come to offer von
all these coiiceflions," without knowing what
I they were difpof-d to offer in return ? Will the
gentleman undntaks to fay, it would have been
right to have communicated h s private in
luufltons to the Dirertory even before he was
! received ? If we were a Colony of France, indeed
it might have been expected that he would have
laid not only his n.»rurti6ns, but pro it rated
himftrlf at the feet of the Directory, bu: 4r.de»
pendent as we are, he truftcdno gentleman would
|ay this was proper ir. any man, much Ids was
it to be exported from Mr. Vinckuey. What
were his private inftrurtion, was unknown. A 1
thousand conjerttires might be formed refueling
tnera, but they were vague and uncertain.
This being the state of the tranfartion, he
thought it clearly eftablilhed, that 'Mr Pmck
ney was not refufed becaufc he bore -'he charac
ter of minister Plenipotentiary, without extra
ordinary powers ; the queition then was, why
was he lent away I 1
Wc all, said Mr. Smith, remember the com
plaints of Mr. Adet again!! our government. It
wasnot necessary to go into a ininute recapitu
lation ot them : It fuificed to lay that they fell
under the folio.vip? heads'; rft. compl.iinu of'
violations of our commercial treaty with France,
ad. of the treaty we had ui.-dl with Great Bril
tain, sd, of the proceedings of oar Federal
courts, and 4th. ot the irt of Cong, ess ofjm.c,
1794, which ail this lioul'e, after it had heard
his complaints, hadrt*r,i:RcJ without ounofi.
tion the last feffiou. 1
Now what dc-.-3 Mr. Do la Crix f.» „„ t |ie
arrivji c: Mr.Pinckney f lie clidno: condtfceind
o fay .it w *:a11-1/that wo*ld have been p?y.h;m too rr. J:h , I,<lnl not fiy Jt tj ( p:
the Mi'iijlcr of the gOTfrnjueittf but ' s f
M the recalleil Minister, Mr. Monroe, to wlior.i tl
Mr. IX- la Croix writes a ddUaring— ci
that the Dire&jry will not. acknowledge nor b<
receive another Minidri- P ei'ipotinr'ury from ti,
the Uii.ted 3ta: s, until "fur the reclrefs of the h.
grievances demanded of the Ameriran govern- w
inent, and which thfPrcnch rcpub!ic.has a right ' c<
to expeiit friom it." V i
Now, wr.at, K>h. S. a(ketl, were the grievances di
contained in Mr. Adet's note, and to wiach the bi
directory here refer ? They were viry numer- c<
- dus ; but they chicSy fell uu.*r trie four heads th
he had mentioned. According then to this de- to
duration of ti.e French government, what were ol
we to do ? We mu(t, said he, annul the Briti(h hi
treaty; rrpeal the law of June 1794, which was F
lal) leifion very unanimously te-enafted ; and
we niuft, by some proceeding or othe-, which tl
he supposed even the ingenLj.ty of the gentle- ' t j.
manfrom Virginia would find it difficult to point •
out, annul the decrees of the courts of the Uni- I "
trd States. Yet though all this mnft be done, | ri
before the directory would condescend to receive
our miniller, the gentleman did not believe any hi
iiuhgiity whativer had Iwen intended againit la
this government ; and we must not express our- Q |
feivei as ir we thought or felt there had been q
any. It was, at the belt, a mere matter of eti- .
quetic on the part of France, it was meant to
tolivey no insult, no indignity; our govern- '
men( had given offence by failure of etiquette, a J
and therefore, to heal the breich, we muit fsnd c«.
an envoy extraordinary to make the neceflary til
cunceHions, and all will go well. :
With rtfpeil to the gentleman's second pro- Jj (
pofitiew, if i: was proper to be dtfeuffed at all,
it would have been more properly difcufied in a w .
committee of the whole on the Sate of thr- Un- Vl
ion, after proper notice and being printed. If th
(be House cannot confide in the Executive that th
It -vil! ta!;e the proper measures to heal the to
■wound ; if the lioufe were convinced that the 2I
tjecniive were not disposed to d» this, it might
h< then their 4u'y to apply to him ; but the Pre- "
fijent, in his speech, had explicitly said, that it
Was his mod sincere desire to restore harmony, tr
»d that, notwithftandmgthe indignities offered b<
ta our minister and our government, he did not gi
tjiink thr honor and dignity of our government b<
forbad farther advances towards negotiation.
After fir candid and free a declaration, he was p
flrprifed ao hear his difpofi-ion in this relpeift
tlus called in qneftien. For his part, Mr. S. c<
flld, hs had not the lead hesitation to believe, h
diat th« executive would go all lengths confid- tl
with the honor and dignity of the country, h
to restore harmony between the two republics, „
teeaufe he was fatisfied he had the interest of the
country at heart, and he traded that no gentle
jaaii, not even the gentleman from Virginia
Umfelt, would doubt this. a
It had been argued that this country had not
»a,d a proper part with refpefl to France. In I «
®rderto (hew this, the member had adverted to ti
three fpecific grounds of complaint ariling out „
♦f the Britilh treaty. « u
The gentleman from Virginia htd eonfined
the complaints of the French government to
three articles of the British treaty ; though, if ''
the committee referred to the letter of Mr. De f<
U Croix, it would be found that they did not o
confine them within so narrow a compass. tl
They complained, fird, of the inexeeution of
treaties j there are several poir> ts of complaint
lelative to that head. ad. Complaints againd P
the decrees of our federal courts j 3d, againd "
the law of June 1794 ; and 4th, against the "
treaty with Great Britain : Yet the gentleman t
confines hirafalf altogether to the latter. And f
really he did not expeit at this time of day, as- ,]
ter the fubjeit had been so fully discussed, and f
determined, and the objeflions refuted over and
over again, that any gentleman would have£n
deavored to revive and prove their complaints
outhis head well founded.— The three articles '• v
were, id. That free (Hips did no! make free h
!oods. ad. The contraband article. 3d. The f
rovifion article. n
1. The flipulation with refpeit to neutral j,
tflels not making neutral goods in the Britilh
treaty was not contrary to the law of nations ; ,
at only provided that the Uw of nations was to *
be carried into effeift in the manner mod con- v
venient for the United States.. But this doc- g
trine, he said, wa* uo new thing. It had been t
acknowledged mod explicitly by Mr. Jefferfon, ;
Secretary of State, in July 1793, and was fode
claredtotheminiflerof France ;yet no objection
wasmade to it until the Bnti(h treaty was ratifi- v
<d, though long previous thereto French pro- \
jiertv was captured on board our velTels. Mr. 1
Jtfferfon writing on this fubjeit to the French t
Sinister, said " You have no (hadew of com- I
ain* the thing was so perfeflly clear and ,
\iell undsrftood by the law of nations. This j
jtippened so long ago as July or Augud 1793. .
Bit two years afterwards, when the British.
treaty was promulgated, the whole country was '
tirown into a flame by admitting this very I
fame doflrine. France herfelf had always adt- t
eil unde/ this law of nations when not retrained
3 ; treaty ; in Valin's ordinances of France this ,
early appears. The armed neutrality was
ekinfiued to the then exifling war ; Ruflia her- \
ft If, the creator «f the armed neutrality, enter
ed into a compafl with England in 1793, ex
yrefsly contravening its principles. The prin
ciple was theß not edablifhed by our treaty with
i ngl 'id ; but such being the acknowledged
lr.wof nations, it wa3 merely dipulated that it
fli»uld be exercised in the manner the lead inju
rious
a. The next article of complaint was with
refpefi to contraband goods. If gentlemen will
consult the law of nations, they will find, that
die articles mentioned in the Britilh treaty a>e
by the law of nations contraband articles. They
will find that in all the treaties with Denmark
and Sweden, Great Britain had made the fame
iipulations. Indeed the gentleman had ac
knowleged, that it was so dated by some writers
on the law of nations ; but he wilhed to dero
gate from the authority of those writers, in the
fame way as Mr. Genet, in his correspondence
-with Mr. Jefferfon, had called them worm eat
<ea folifi'j nnd mufly apborifms { to Vattel might
be aJd«d Valm's ordinances, a very refpecUhle
v»ork in Fiance. H«w, then, can the gentle
man with truth fay we have deviated from the
itwof nations ?
3. The lad point which the gentleman took
notice of was the prov'Jt9n article I here was
* r.i> doubt that this government would nevir al
low provisions to be contraband, excrpt when
gcing to a besieged or blockaded port. Tho
lit made this declaration, yet It was but aandid
to acknowledge that this was stated by Vattel to
he the law of nati&ns* [[He read an extract
•from Vattrl ]
When this was stated by I-ord Grenville to
Mr- I'inckney, our then minister in London,
* Mr. Pinckney acknowledged it to be foliated in
Vattel,but very ingeniously argued, that Fi'anse
caul'd not be considered as in the fituatio.i men
tii ned in Vattel, since p-ovifions were cheaper
they were in England, and therefore
the cafe did not apply< When our envoy was
loit to London, both parties were tenacious on
this ground. Our minister was unwilling tp a
to this conftrvic\i"M of the law of nations,
bet the Blilifli minister insisted upon it, and if
til-re had not beriijomecomprati.i!;', thenego
tiiiion must hive brer. br~ktn off, and a war
I'fotjably enfucd. 7he refutt wis, therefore |
M>st, without admitting it to be the law of ia c
t'pns, it was.-agreed thai wiiete >rov fions we*'e
contra! and by the law of nations, they (h ruld '
be paid (or, but not-confifcated, as the av o '
nations (admitting that con.truSion) woul I /
have authorised. Therefore some advantage /
was it-cured to Fiance, for if Great Britain bad I.
confiicated our veftelsgo ng to France with pro
vilions, it would certainly have damped the ar |
dor of our citizens employed in that commerce |
but under this regulation, our merchants were
certain of being paid for their cargoes, whether 1
they arrived in France or were carried in- P
to England. These were the three grounds of 15
obje&ion which the gentleman from Virginia o
bad stated as grounds of complaint by the tl
French ajjainft ihe British treaty. t |
Before he vreat furtlier, he would observe,
that admitting (which he did not admit) j
that there had been grounds of objec
tion against the British treaty, before it was j
ratified, yet they ought now to be closed. It j
had received a full discussion at the time ; ii
had been carried into effedk, was become the
law of the land, and wa» generally approve'd
of by the country. Why, then, endeavor to
stir up the feelings of the public againd it by n
alledging it to be the just catife of complaint i v
If the committee wanted any proof of the t |
approbation which that inftrttment had re
ceived, lie thought it might be gatheicd from ..
the general approbation which had been
given of the adminillration of the late Pre- f
fident on hisrettrment from office, in doing
which, the people had doubtless taken into Q
vi»\v the whole of hit condutt. Nor did he r(
think the people had Ihewn any hostility to
the treaty in their late eleftion of members
to that house. Indeed, he believed that the a ,
approbation whi.h the treaty received, in- ti
creased in propostion as the fuAjeft came to p
be uudtrilood. Admitting further, that the ( j
treaty had changed the exi'tin* (late of thiiigs rt
between Great Btitaii: and France, by having
granted commercial favois to Great Britain, t|
by the 2d article of our treaty with France, t i
the fame favors would immediately attach to
France, so that (he could have no reason to t|
complain on that ground. Indeed France
had herfelf now modified the treaty betwixt f,
that country and this, and had taken to
herfelf what (he deemed to be the favors g
granted to Great Britain. (Mr. S. read the j
decree on this fubjett of 2d March last) j
Mr. Smith said, he believed he had cx- „
amined all the obfervationt of the gentleman t
from Virginia, relative to the treaty, which #
were eiTential to the fubjeft under confidera- t
tion. He did not with to go much farther t
on the present occasion becaofc he agreed v
with him, that it was proper they (hould keep v
themselves as cool and calm as the nature of
the cafe would admit; but he thought whilst c
so much deference was paid to the feelings -]
of France, some relpeft ought to be paid to t
the feelings of America. He hoped the f
people of America would always retain a a
proper refpedt and confideratiou for their 3
national character ; and however earnestly <j
he wished that the differences fubfilling be- c
tween the two countries might be amicably {
fattled, yet, he truded, that our national c
dignity would never be at so law an ebb, as to a
fuhmit to the insults and indignities of anynn- t
tion whatever. In faying tins,heexpreffed his j
heaity wi(h to keep the door of negociation c
: witn France unclosed ; but at the fame time f
lie ilrongly iccommended 'O take every necef. ]
fary dep to place us in a fnuation to defend t
ourTelves, provided she (hauld (till perfilt in %
her haughty demeanour. t
He truded they would convince the c
French and every oilier naiion, that they r
were determined to preserve the right of felf- (
government, and that they were able to fruf- c
trare eveiy attempt which (hould be made to
influence our councils. That such attempts (
had been made he knew some gentlemen ,
would deny, but to him it was evident that )
all the minillers of France, who had resided (
in this country, had endeavoured to obtain an
undue influence over our affairs. It was now |
become a serious question whether we were
to make concefiions to France of the mod
humiliating nature, and thereby provoke j
future aggressions, or aft a firm and determin
ed part, in expressing our indignation at
their insults, and resolving to resist them if
they were petfifted in.
He did not wifli unneceflarily, he said,
to excite indignation ; but it was necessary,.
on this occasion, to take particular notice of
the insulting speech of President Barra«, in
reply to Mr. Monroe's valedictory, a speech
evidently calculated to separate tba Ameri
can people from their government.
After the Directory knew that Mr. Mon
roe was no longer the Miniller of this coun
try, after, he had presented his letters of
recall, and Mr. Pinckney had presented
[ his letters of credence—after the Mini Her of
Foreign Affairs, De la Droix, had said that
they considered America as having no Minis
' ter in France, the Piefident of the Direftory
delivered the insulting speech above alluded
to, ia which he tells our late Minister, at a
5 public audience, in the presence of feviral
. Foreign Miriideri, to go home and tell his
: government " that tit country owes itt liberty
" to France." Wfc have never denied, said
" Mr. S. that we receiveJ great services from
1 France i but was it not degrading to this
country that their late Mi> ifter (hould be
c thus addressed. This address was through
out couched in terms (ludioufly marked with
k indignities to this country, and an attempt
» to separate the people from the government.
Notwithstanding all this, the genilcmam
1 from Virginia is wonderfully afraid of ufiog
j language which might irritate France : Mr.
0 S. wi(hed France had n»t given just cause of
a irritation, but thnfe who had read the cor
refpondenoe which had been laid before them,
0 for a few years pad, mull have seen reitera
'» ted insults to this country.
It was fufncicnt io call to their recolltc
j_ tion the many indelicate ar.d offenfive expref
;r (ions used by the various French Ministers.in
re their diplomatic letters. Ir.deed, were he
» inclined to aggravate the sggMfions we had
,n received, he might difp'ay a whole volume
of Genet's abuse. He IhouU, however, fa
tisfy himfclf by presenting some elegant ex-
0 _ trads from the letters of Citizen Adet. Mr.
ar S. here quoted a nuipber of offenfive epi
the' 9 and expi< (lions fu<~h as J under a 1
ilj i m u. .v'i, the v/itof dtfrnulaihn, ty- t
runit'c tl iiml h-itniddu! iujul'icus prcria- <
matlni -tf mutraiiiy, the ebic.inry of its Courts, i
p efnm:g 11 poitnn! to cut the i/ji cat of its "■ (- j t
ly, all jubmijjion to tie will of iir.ghnd, pr f f
Muting iti neutrality, &c. Sec. f
•Mr. S. frfid, as he knew in.Jecent ar.d liarfh u
langu-.ge always recoilrd upon thof- wlia d
used it, lie did not tvifh to a 'opt it ; but at
the time it was due to uurlelves to ex- t
press our feelings with a proper decree of ri
ltrength and spirit. He was nut in the habit n
of quoting any thing from Mr. Gener, bu: o
there was one exprtHlon of his which he a
thaught contained good adviL-e, " all this «
accommodation and humility, all this conde
scension attair,3 no end." 1
After the gentleman from Virginia had ti
dwelt fufficiently upon the danger of irrita- c;
ling the French, he had emphatically called 01
upon us to recolledt our tueaknefs. It might b;
have been as well if he had left that to have »!
been discovered from another quarter. He bi
hoped we had fufficient confidence in the U
meant of defence which we pofTcffed, if dri- w
ven to the last resort; and he believed that if 1
there was any one more certain way of K
provoking War than another, ix was that of a
proclaiming our own tueaknefs
He hoped such a language would now be °l
spoken as would make known to the French w
government, that the government and people P 1
of this country were one,and that they wouldi e '
repel any attempt to gain an influence over a<
our councils and government. The gentle c<
man had said that thet« did net appr-r to !>e hi
any design of this kind, and had endeavored
to do away what was stated as the opiuion in „
France, in General Pinckney's letter. He o
did not mean to red this altogether upon the 1
repoits of an emigrant, whom General Pinck-
ney mentions as having represented this coun
try divided, and of no greater consequence «
than Genoa or Geneva, but he took the whole
information into view. [He read the ex- b ,
traft relative to this subject 3 fii
It was evident, Mr. S. said, from this in- 111
formation from Franee, that an opinion had
been taduitrioufly circulated there that the (]
government and people of this countiy were vi
divided ; that the Executive was corrupt and
did not pursue the interctts of the people ; J
and that they might, by perseverance, over- C
turn the administration, and introduce a new j a
trder of things. Was not such an opinion as |
this, he a/ked, calculated to induce France r j
to believe that she might make her own terms . n
with us ? It was well known what the French |
wished, and it was time to declare it plainly; jj
his opinion was that (he designed to ruin the tt
commerce cf Great-Britain through us ti
This was evident. They talked of the British w
treaty ; but they fiiftered it to lie dormant ' 0
for near twelvfc months, without complaining ol
about it. Why were they silent till within a
a few weeks befoie the ele&ien of our Prefi- yi
dent i Why did they commit spoliations up- q
on our commerce long befote the Britilh *
tieaty was ever dreamt of ? Their firft de- 1 P
cree, dircfting spoliations of our property, c j
and the capture of our provision Clips, was on j fl
the 9th of May, 1793, a month before the °
provifioa order of Great-Britain, which was f'
dated June 8, 1793 : and why have they w
from that time to this, been committing fpo- p
liations on our commerce ? The Bntiih trea- t<
ty was publilhed in Paris in Attguft, 1795 ; v !
a year after, in July, 1796, they deteimine t |
to treat us in the fame way that we fuffer ' g
other nations to treat us, and this decree was j
not made known to our government till the j n
O&eber following, a few weeks before the : J
eleftion of President.
But this wasnot all; the l'Verch had pur
sued similar measures towards all the other i|
neutral powers. Sweden, in confiquence, si
had no minillerin their country, and was on 1
the eve of a rupture. The intention of the J
French evidently was, to compel all the neu
tral powers to deflrrty the commerce of Great f
Britain ; but. he trusted this country had c
mure spirit than to fuffer herfelf to be thus b
forced to give up her commerce with Gteat t
Britain ; he truiled they would spurn any c
such idea. 1
Mr. S. hojjed the obfervatioas which he '
had made would not be construed iuto a wish ,
to fee the United States and France involved j
- in a war. He had no objeAisn to such mea- 1
fures being taken for preferviog peace betwixt 1
the two countries as should be confident with 1
national honor. It was a delicate tiling for '
them to fuggefl what the Executive ought
to do. It was out of their province to di
re£t him. The Execuiive had various con
siderations to take into view. We had in- '
juries to complain of againlt France for the
I spoliations committed upon our commerce.
If the Executive conceive we have a right to
redress, that fu'ojeft will of course eonftitute
• a part of our envoy's inftru&ions. Would it
' then be proper, said he, for this House to
1 interfere with the Executive, to obtrude its
> opinion and fay, " You mull give up this
1 point; we take upon us (without any au
s thority by the conllituticn) to give Carte
t Blanche to Jrancff, without, any indemnihea
i tion or redress."
1 The gentleman fays it is the ohjeft of the
s amendment on the table, to recommend to
e ihe Executive to remove any inequalities in
■ the treaties ; that was alone fufficieiit to vote
I) it out.
t There had been no period since the revo
■ • lu'ion which had so powerfully called on
n Americans for that fortitude and wisdom
g which they knew so well how to display on
r. great axd folenan emergencies It was not
>f his intention to offend any one by Hating the
r- queflion in such strong terms: but he was
l, persuaded that when the present fi'uation ot
»- our affaits with refpeft to France was well
undrrltood, it would be found that to ac
:• quiefce in her present demands was virtually
f- and efTentially to surrender our felf govern
in ment and independence. |
le The independence of a nation, lie olferved,
id might be defhoyed in various modes. Whe
le tlier a preponderating influence was obtained
a- in her councils by fedudiou, intrigue or ter
x- ror, or by a dired and open invsGon of her
r. territories, and consequent subjugation, was
>i- immatetial: IndeeJ it wauli tc fifcr fcr v s
' if a foreign power were at once to attempt
our (ul.juration y inviifion j for, in that
cafe, there could be but one opinion amoiig
Americans about a vigorous refiltance ; but
the flaw approaches to our fubjedtion, by the
subtle artifices of intrigueand deception, were
fehiom difcetned by the community at large,
until their peftileritial effrfls had taken such 1
deeps root at to In: with difficulty extirpated.
Was it faying too much, to assert that dif*.
ting to out government, fomenting an itiftir
reclion in our bosom, influeueirg the moil
important election, demanding a violation of
our engagements, the tepeal of out laws, the
annulling the decrees of our courts of juflice,
were not merely interferences with our go
vernment, but in fadt attempts to usurp it i
The complaints of France refpe&ing the Bri
tilh treaty were the pretext, but not the real
cause of her aggressions. It was idle to wink
out of fight the real causes : flie wished (as he
had before ftatfJ) to dellroy tlic commerce
»f England, and the United States were to
be the initrument in accomplishing it. The
United States were to be coerced into such
measures as would effcft this great fchcrae.
The fame policy wis pursued towards the
Hanfe Towns and Denmark : had they made
a Britilh 11 eat y ? Were they anf wet able for I
the fins of ours i The review he had taken
of the ground of controversy as to our treaty '
with England mull have rfmoveJ every im- P
predion unfavourable to our government, and 1
evinced the unceasing efforts of France to v
acquire an improper ascendancy over our
councils, and direst them to the purposes of
her own aggrandizement.
Whether or no our government ought, on prin- a
ciplea of amity and conciliation, to 'quilirr our a
treaties between England and France, was a qucftion
of an executive nature, and was not properly before
the hcufr. An offej of such equalization would n - a
doubtcdly depend on the disposition of France to
make proper and Tunable rquivalents. tl
The gentleman from Virginia had cautioned the
committee against alarming the pride of Fiance— .
but, exclaimed Mr. S has Ameiica no pride ?it l '
hei fcnftbi.ity so debated by prejudice or benumbed \
by terror ai to be thrown out of view on this occa
lion ? 1 trust not, I trust that American pride ftili
maintains an important influence ovet our delibera
tions, and desirous as lam to fee it yield all that is a
due to the influence of policy, God forbid that it I
should ever be lupplanted by an interested and ftr- H
vile tamenefs. He thought it became thedignity of
the House to fupportthe Executive in firm and man- ®
ly language. He was-perfuaded that a decided con- is
dudt would be the moftlikely to discourage aggref- ]i
Con and repetition of insult. He recommended not j
a menacing but a firm countenance; not a bullying, ..
but an undaunted attitude. This wou'.d convince •]
the world we were not to be threatened out of our ti
rights; whereas a timid supplicating pollute could
not fail to invite frclh insults and humiliation. ,
Mr - S. said, he valued unanmity as much at other
gentlemen. He Was fenUblc ;hat it would be pecu- tl
Itarly important at this juncture. It wo«ld engage n
the confidence of the people and fortify the negocia- n
Uon. It would convince the world, that however
we might differ upon fpeculetive points of admi- a
mArauon, there was but one sentiment, resetting p
our felf government. It would extingulfh the hopes a
of those who attempted to keep alive a faction in the r
country ; it would crulh the expectations of those
who wished to fubllitute a foreign influence to the "
constituted authorities of the nation. But it might (
(till be purchased by too dear a facrifice; and he j
would rather have only a bare majority for the re
port »f the committee, than an unanimous vote for
the amendment; so much did he reprobate its prin
ciples. He thought it of more importance that there a
should be an unanimitybetweeuall the departments ,
of the government, than an unanimity in the house,
at the expeace of its separating from the other {
branches of the government; but if the amendment c
was agreed to, it mull produce a separation from the
Prcfident and Senate, and confirm the opinion lof
teiedin Franeeofa division exifticig between the go
vernment and people. Much, therefore, as he t
cnciifhed unanimity the could not purchase it on (
this occasion by agreeing to a propelition, of so dan
gerous a tendency.
Mr. Smith concluded with requesting the com
mittee feriottfly to ponder on the coafequence of
ag.eeittg to the amendment. It spoke the fame <
feeble language as the address of the last feflion, ;
. the fame timid relu&ance to express our sense of ,
'injury, the fame reliance on negeciation alone ; j
if this was all tha: the gentlemen on the other
fide prepofed doing at this extraordinary feflion, '
! the calling of Congress would prove the "molt
humiliating, the most calamitous measure that
had ever been adopted. Bstter indeed had the
members remained at their homes, and there in
secret silence mourned over thedifbonor of their
country, and smothered their resentments, than
be collected in mafj from all parts of the union,
to be thus publicly exhibited as fellow witnefles
of their own lhame and the Indignities offered
their country without the power or even the cou
rage to resent them. But he could not believe
it polTible that the committe should pursue a
course so pregnant with humiliation, and he con
fidently . pe»ftuded himfelf that as his country
had always djfplayed its juflice, so would all
parts of the house unite on this occasion to con
vince the woild that her fortitude and firmnefs
were eq'ial to her justice.
IVednesday, May 24.
Media. S. Smith, from Maryland, and
Fiadley, from this (late, appeared, and tot k
their oaths and feats, as did also Mr. W.
Smith, from S. Carolina, and another new
member whose name we did not learn.
The House again went into a committee
of the whole on the answer to the Prelident's
speech, and Mr. Nicholas's amendment being
under ronflderation, Mr. Swaitwick and Mr.
Livingfton spoke at great length, particular
ly the latter, in favour of it.
Mr. Coit proposed several amendments
, which he wished to be adopted, ir.ftead ol
the one proposed by Mr. Nicholas, as conci
liatory on both fides of the House. They
. were ordered to be printed. The Committer
l rose, reported progrttft and allied leave to fit
, again.
By this day's Mail.
1
1 NEW-YORK, May 24.
I ARRiTBo. days,
t Ship Gen. Wayne, Manwaring, Bour
e deaux. 45
s Grand Turk, Themfon, St. Tho
t « mas, 18 .
II Brig Piuience, Hovey, Savannah 9
- Schooner Clara, Kobinfon, Curiacoa
y Lucy, 810 l k, Norfolk,
1 ExtraS from the log book of the JLip Grand
Turk, from St. 71/vmus, William Thotnp
I, son, majhr.
:- Monday May 5, at 6P. M. fell in with a
d fleet of jo Tail—was boarded by the British
■- ship Roebuck, of 44 guns 1 the officer from
:r which informed us, that the fleet had failed
is on the 10th of April for Porto Rico from
a Tortola, with about 3.5C0 traeps, ar.d laa
ded on the 21 (J, where they remained until
Ihe 4th of Miy ; but si* 'ing that rd.
flronyly fortified, and n« profpedl of uslur
rendering, tliey ha ) lefi it, and wete now
heating up for Maitimco.
May 29, spi ke the sloop Nancjr, and
Schr. Kitty, from Philadelphia, in lat. 3c,
long. 72, all well.
Yetlerday arrived here in 45 days from
BouHe2ux, the ship Ceneral Wayne, captain
Manwaring, of Nor London. A gej tie
man who came in this veflel. lias favored us
with a rrgtriar file of 7'he PuJ! Boy of the
Armies, and General Bulletin—a Paris paper,
as late as the 301(1 of March. From these
papors we give tranflitions of several impor
tant articles—They follow.
Capt. Manwa; ring fays all apprehensions
of a war between Franc# and America had
subsided some time before he failed. This
change of opinion was supposed to be in con
fequtnee of news from America of Mr. Jef
ferfon's being appointed extra; Ambaffadof
to that Republic.
The Tiosijltitims.
VIENNA, March n.
It appears now decided, that his Royal
Highness tlie Archduke Charles, is to pre
fcrve the chief command of the army of the
Rhine ; but as this prince is to command in
petfon, the army of Italy; I.is orders will be
transmitted to field marlhal Citron Mack,—
who will communicate them to the army.
A corps of 1500 cavalry, part of which
have alieady pafied this city front Moravia &
Bohemia, on their way to the atmy as Italy ;
and the remainder of the Vienna volunteers
are to pracced to day for the fame army.—
When all the reinfoieementsdeftined for that
army arrive, it will amount to 120,000 men.
We are now employed in the exchange of
the garrison of Mantua, and to this cffedl, a
great number of French prifaners, aie on
their march from Austria to France. The
Vienna volunteers are alrtady exchanged.
Mayenct, March 15.
Several of the mod fupcrior oSeers of the
army of the Rhine, are about to depart for
Italy : Their loss would be fevrrely felt, —
were it not, great confidence is placed on the
abilities of gen. Mack. We learn this gen.
is to have a conference with Latour,
Kray and Wernetk, before they let out for
Italy ; and that he wiH immediately after in
fpe6t the whole line of the Imperial troops,
to Huningcn.
All officers.and others, belonging to the
Autlrian army, have received orders to be at
their refpedive porta by the 16th of this
month at fartheft. It is thought, gen. Mack
means to a& offenfively sn the Upper Rhine,
and that he will make the grcatell efforts to
penetrate to the new couatries, where they
are in hopes of being effectually affi(le<l.—
By this operation, the French army will find
it impoiliblc to attempt any thing against
Germany.
ExtraH of a letter from Manheim dated 15/ i
March.
A eonfiderable number of troops are jufl
arrived here from the environs of Kempton,
in Eallern Suabia ; it is thought they are to
penetrate through the Milanese by a new
contrivance.
Prague, March 9.
Several detachments set out lafl week for
the army of the Rhine ; they-will be imme
diately followed by a new division of cavalry.
Paris, March 26.
We read inTeveral public papers, that gen.
Buonaparte has obtained a signal victory
over the Archduke Charles, 10,000 Auftii
ans were killed and takes on the field of bat
tle. This news has been received from Kel
lerman, who learnt it by a courier from Bu
onaparte. Not wiftitng to doubt the au
thenticity of this news, we only remark that
it is furprifiag the Dire&ory has net receiv.
Ed any intelligence refpefting it. The offi
cial journals make uo mention of this impor
tant viftory.
We are assured that a conference for peace
has taken place at Turin, between f»en. Clark
and the margin's de Lucr hefini. The friends
of humanity mud wifti fucccfs to this uego
ciation.
March 27.
The news of the vist >ty obtained by the
French army in Italy ovet the Archduke
Charles, has not yet been received by the
Direftory, is we mentioned in our last, but
by the Venetian Ambassador at Paris. The
Dirc&ory anxiously wail for offi- ial details.
March 28. •
In a letter from Gen. Buonaparte, dated
March 17, head quarters at Valdafone, he
mentions having on the 16th of March, tak
en from the Aulliian army 6 pieces of can
non, 1 genera], fevcral sffieers, and from 4 to
JO© men. Adjutant-general Kellermari had
received several strokes of the sword, in char
gingat the head of the cavalry, with his ulu
al courage.
March 29-
Thomas Paine left this city the 1 (I inllant,
on his return to America. His departure
will be no great loss to France, alt ho* several
enthusiasts fay, they admire his writing, tho'
• they do not underlland it. His last pitbli.
cation was againrt our constitution, to fhjw
that it was not democratic enough.
The choice ot Eledlors is terminated-
The Primary AfTrmblies, have placed their
■ confidence in men, recommended tor their
integrity and knDwlrdge. .
CHARLESTON, May 13.
On Wednesday Uft, in the Federal Circuit
Court, indiftmems were preferred agaiuft four
teen men, of the crew cf the French fihooncr
Grouper, which were committed to joal 011 the
I jth day of April lad, on a charge of piracy on
the high sea», trcfpafi on the brig Fax Ameri
can, Capt. Almv, and falfe imprifrnment cf her
c. ew. The Grand Jury threw out the bill*; —
m confluence thereof the men were difchar
' ged liy the court.
—'m • 1 ■ ■■■ ■"■■■ ».
fOJiT Of fHILJt DBLfli lA.
3 . J rrii: J. Days.
Sloop Patience, Willis, New-York 6
n Sch'r Harriet, Sweetfer, St. Thomas's 14
In the acconnt of vefTels taken, Ac. at Trini
-11 pubiiftied yesterday, a Sf-ini/i 74 gun Jhif
'• taken, wat OTniited.Printed Calicoes.
John miller, jun.&c o .
No. 8 Cbe/nut -Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS ®eatiy aflorttd.very low on
Ihort credit*
March 6. *
Just Arrived,
In the febooner Dove, Captain Paul, from St
Thortias, and for sale by the subscriber.
Muscovado Sugar in hhds* tierces aud barrels.
St. Croix Rum in hlids.
And Laguira hides.
ALSO ON HAND,
Imperial, Hyson, and Sherry and Malaga
Hyson Skin Teas. Wines.
Yellow Nankeens. Holland Gin in pipes.
Canton Cloth. Do. Clieefe.
Lutettiings. Do. Glass ware.
Silk Hankerehlefs. China W*re.
Sewing Silk* Window Blinds.
Cotton ill hales. * Rheubarb.
Peruvian Baik. Quicksilver, fcc.
JOSEPH SIMS.
May atd. di4t.
A Jew hhds. iV. JS. Runty
Of a SUPERIOR QUALITY,
HYSON ")
YOUNG HYSON [TEAS, in quarter chests,
And IMPERIAL 3
FOR SALE BY
A. Marple & Israel W. Morris,
No. 60 Dock-street.
May it mw&fgt
Harvey,
No. 106 SOUTH FRONT-STREET,
HAS FOR SAL F.
A generalaflortment of Dry Goods
—Amongst which are—
A few boxes Irish Linens.
May 11 . vwfim
Richard Bayley Co.
Late John Whitesides & Co.
No. 136 Markct-Jlrtct,
HAVE reoeived per the fliipa William Penn and
Star from London, a large and fafhionable as
sortment of the following articles : viz.
Chintzes, and printed Cottons, of the newest
patterns
Furnitare Dimities and Chistzes
Ginghams, plain and figured,
Mall ins, printed and embroider*d
Do. tarabour'd, plain, check and flrip'd
Do tamboured, of a very superior quality
Fiae Book, Jaconet and Decca Handkerchiefs
Dimities and muflinets
Dainafe table-linen, infetts and in the piece
Diaper ditto in Cloths and in ditto
Holland and Ruflia Sheetings
Loop'd Hollands aid Irifli Linsns
Long Lawns and Cambrics
Sattins and Silks, plain and figured
Ribbons and Gloves
Crapes and Gauzes
Straw, Chip, and Paper Hats and Bonnets, new
fliapcs
Fancy trimmings, &c.
With r. variety of articles in the Linen-Drapery
and Haberdalhery line.
May 42 §*ot
Advertisement.
To be fold ut private sale,
A LIKELY strong bay HORSE, 3 years
old, fit for the saddle. Also, a likely full
blooded MARE, 4 years old, runs well, and is
now fit for the path—hey are lately from Vir
ginia, and may be seen at the flab'es of James
M'Cawley; No. 45 in Cherry alley. Any per
son desirous to buy either or both, must apply
to the owner, at Mr. Valley's corner cf Cherry
alley and Fourth-street.
May 21. 3t
Lancaster, HarriJburgh, Carlijle,
S/oippenJburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
r7 P'HE public are requested to take notice, that
A the partnership which has for some time fub
fiilrd bctwea* Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now dissolved; bHt, not as M.
Slough infiuuatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
ja& from M. Slough t* W. Geer, dated the 29th
December last, a recital of which is not now deem
ed ueceflary. Any gentleman who withes to be
more cireumftantially informed of the merits of
Ihis business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal »f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfedly jullifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance fi;om Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public ware pleased ty confer on the firft effort in
this business, VC illiani Geer, in conjunction with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention andiifpatch that a zeal to eblige the pub
lic can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horfss, and every appurtenance to
render the paftage fafe and commodious, inform
thof« wno win) to patronize and encourage tke
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White- Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrilburg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
eflabliihed.
For the further accommodation ol the public,
a Stage will ft art every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, m Harrilburg, arrive at Sun
fcury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from the«ee and arrive at Harrilburg
every Saturday, so that passengers dellined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed o«i MOll
-
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 1797-
N. B. This Line «f Stages ftarta from tha
house of William Ferrte, in Lancaster, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrilburg every Wednes
day morning, oh the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenlburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadel
phia. mwf
GOLD AND SILVER
Bullion.
THE highefl price in ready money will be gi
ven for gold or silver bullion, old gold or
silver, or gold dull, at No. 59, North Sevtnth-
Hreet.
April 2aw6w
A FEW BOXES OF
Sologna Sausages,
Of a superior quality, be Sold at No.
199, South Froat-Strcc:.
iptiho, eo 'f
THE holders of Re!»ci i. M-.ris and John Ni
ckolfen's notes and acceptances, depcfited as
collateral fecuritiesfor the engageaents of Edward
fox and JamcsGreenleaf, are requefUd to
TAKE NOTICE
That the fubferibers, ;t the requsft and hy the
authority of the holders of near nine tenths ol the
amount of the paper above alluded to, have receiv
ed from George Simpfon, Efij an aifignnunt of the
trust under which the said notes and
are .'cured, together with all the deeds and obli
gations thereunto attached—therefore any applica
tion lor sale ot any part of said propcrtyi* to be
made to THOMAS W* FRANCIS,
HENRY PRATT,
JOHN MILLER, jun.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
March a. m&th f
.Notice.
ytfril ?,d. 1797-
THE Managers of the Cand Lottery, No.
11, an nounce to the public, that the
drawing wili positively commence on the twen
iv-ninth of May next. Tickets to be had of
either of the managers, and at the Canal Office.
Wm. MOORE SMITH, Sec'y.
April 3 mth, t29thM
A New Work.
PROPOSALS
For printing and publilhing, by fubfeription, The
History of Pennsylvania,
IN North-America, from theorigin»linftitutionand
settlement of that province, under the firft propri
etor and governor, William Penn, in 1681, 'till
after the year 1742; with
AN INTRODUCTION,
Refpefting the Life of w.PENN,
Prior to she grant of that Province, and the reli
gious Society of the people called Quakers; M-ith the
FIRST RISE of the NEIGH BORING COLONIES,
more particularly ot WEST-NEW-JERSEY, and the
Settlement of the DUTCHand SWEDES on DELA
WARE.
To which is added,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE.
And of the general (late, in which it flourifbed,
principally between the years 1760 and 1770. The
whole including a variety of things, ufeful and in
teresting to be known, refpefting that country in early
time, &c. With an appendix.
Written principally between the years
By Robert Proud.
il Pulckrum eji berefocere reipublicce, etiam benedicere
haud ablurdum efi. vcl pace vcl bello elarum fieri licet*'
Sal. Catalin.
" Sid cum plerique arbitrentur res bellicas majors* *Jfis
auam urbunas, minuendaeft hacopinio."
Cic. Off.
(Entered according to law,)
" WILLIAM PENN, the great legislator of the
Quakers* (in Pennsylvania) had the success of a con
queror, in eftablilhing and defending his colony, a
mong savage tribes, without ever drawing the sword ;
the goodnefe of the moll benevolent rulers, in trea
ting hisfubjedls as his own children ; and the tender
ness of an universal father, who opened his arms to
all mankind without diitmdionot fo£t or party. In
his Republic it was not his religious creed, but per
sonal merit, that entitled every member of society to
the prote&io* and emolument of the State"
EJfay on Toleration, by Arthur O'Leary,
CONDITIONS.
I. This work will be printed in two o&avo vol
umes, neatly bound and lettered, both in sheep and
calf, for the choice of the fubferibers; on paper ftmi
lartothatof the cond'tious, as publijked in theSubjciip
tion papers.
11. The head of William Penn, handfottiely en
graved, will be prefixed to the firft, and a map or
{ketch of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the
second volume.
Ill* The price to fubferibers will be four dollars
and an half in sheep, and five dollars in calf; —one
dollar 10 be paid at the time of fubferibing, two dol
lars on the delivery of the firftj volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery of the second.
IV. When one thoufaud copies are fubferibed
for, the work will be out to press and finifhed with
all convenient expedition.
Subscriptions will be received by Zacbariah Poul
fon, jun Printer, No. 80, Chefuut-ftreet, and at the
Philadelphia Library in Fifth-ftreet ; by Isaac Col
lins Printer, and Joseph James, Merchant, New-
York; by John P. Pleafants and George W. Field,
Morchants. Baltimore; and by other persons both
in town and country*
February 18. tu&f
To be fold or let,
And immediate pnffejjion given,
A genteel two story Brick House ;
SITUATE on the urper end of Broad-street, in
the city of Burlington, with four rooms and
an entry on each floor, good cellars under the
whole, a pump in the yard, a garden and court
yard, containing half an acre under good
fence, with a liable adjoining the yard. The
whole property is in good order;
For terms apply to the subscriber in Burlington,
who will give a credit for a considerable part of
the purchase money if good security is given.
William Cove, jun.
May 17. aawtf
William Haydon,
Drawing Majier, from London ;
WHERE he studied several years under one
of the moil eminent matters in that sci
ence. He attends young ladies and gentlemen
at their refpedlive houses. His terms are fix
dollars per menth for attendance three times
per week; likewise all kind of ornamental
painting, fruit, Rowers, Sec. taught on the above
terms.
A line directed to W. Haydon, No. »6, Pear
street, will"be immediately attended to.
W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will be par
ticularly advantageous, where there are several
pupils in the fame family ; as he makes no al
teration in his terms if there are two or three
to teach in one family.
May 9.
This Day is Published,
BY Mess* Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
other Booksellers,
rice One Dollar end twenty-five cents,
Elegant 'iy printed on fVove paper, and Hot
prtjfed,
By John Thcmpfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with e:*th ot) • , and with
that of the United States: exhibiting ill Tables,
the prominent features of ueh Constitution, and
cUffing together their roost important provisions,
under the several heads ef adminiftratiou; with
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
LI. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States.
Dedicated to the People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed oc an inferior pa
per, at j-4ths of a dollar.
February 6 mwf
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-street,
Hyson
Hyson Skin f TEAS
Young Hylon C
Imperial j
April 20. sots
For Sale,
TWO LOTS OF GROUND in Kensing
ton, 011 the south fide of Hanover-street,
containing thirty-fix feet in breadth and one
hundred and sixty-seven and a half feet in
depth to a twenty feet alley For further in
formation enquire at No. 37, Arch-flreet.
March iS. eodtf
All persons who have any demands
Against the eflate of John Finlay, deceased,
are requested to exhibit their accounts proper
ly attelled 011 or before the 2»th of May next —
and those who are indebted to said estate are re
quested to make immediate payment to either of
the Subscribers.
ROBERT HENDERSON,)
JOHN M'CARA, 5
April 26.
Translations.
MEMORIALS, advertisements, epillolary,
and {other writings in French and En
glilb, undertaken by Samuel Chandler, A. M.
translator of Le Moniteur, L'Obfervateur, Les
Quatre Fils Aymons, L'Heroine Americain,
and many other French authors.
S. C. has been in the habit of compiling for
the most approved pul'iications, & occafianallv
attending where the hurry of bufiuels may re
quire his immediate attendance.
Encouraged and assisted by gentlemen of
abilities, he proposes publifcing by fubferip
tion, a work in Frencn and English, by the,
title of 7'he American Spefiator. The profpedt
us may be fee» at his lodgings, No. 67, Arch
flreet.
April 87. 1"
Benjamin Jacob John/on,
No. 147 Market Street, Philadelphia,
T T AVE just reqeived by the Connecticut and other
IjL late arrivals frem Liverpool} a general alTorU
meut of well choien
Dry Goods,
For the ensuing Season, for sale on. the lowelt terms
tor cash or the common credit.
A large colle&iou of Books at their usually mo
derate pi ices*
4th month, 85th, 1797* tw&f"4
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder, at the house ef Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 25 th
day of October next, at II o'clock, A. M.
About seven thousand acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifter's-town and Westminster,
tommonty called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road runs through a considerable partjof
fhefe lands) the traft begins about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
ps said Reifter's-town, and extends to the dis
tance of abeut twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and lis on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each tradl,
some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine gn.fs.
ALSO,
A traft of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
Bladenfhurg, esteemed yery good for Grass.
Richard Portfonby, of Bladenfburgh, will (hew
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
ALSO,
A traft of land ®f about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a half of the President's house in the Fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpedt, froc. which may be fcen the
city of Wafliingtcn, Eladenfcurgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfou
by, of B!a4enfburg, will also shew this land.
A liberal credit will be given for the greatest
part of the purchase money, The terms will
be made known on the day of sale.
May 8 W3tn
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extrafl of an a <sl pa fled by the Legislature of
the state of Maryland on the 29th December,
1791, entitled, " Aaadlfor ereiiling a bridge
over Potowmac river.
'• And he it enafted, that the said direflors or
any two sf them shall and may require any sum
or sums of money in equal proportion from each
and every proprietor, as may. from time to time
be necessary for carrying on the building of said
bridge; and after giving three months public
notice, it shall and may be lawful for the direfl
ors to sue for and rtcover in the name, of the
company such unpaid requilition, with all costs
and charges incidental thereto, and legal interest
thereon from the time the fame should have
been paid: And the negle<ft orrefufal to pay any
such requisition after public notice fhail have
been given at leaf! for three months in all the
newspapers herein before enumerated, fiiall have
the effe<sl to forfeit all preceding payments made
on the share or shares so neglected or refufed to
be paid ta the use and benefit of the company."
The above extract is publilhcd for the infor
mation of such of the flockholders as have not
complied with the requisitions heretofore made
—they are as follow: On the ill November,
1795, 2® dollars, on the loth May, 1796, 40
dollars; an the 20th July, 1796, 40 dollars j on
the ift September, 1796, 40 dollars, and on the
ift November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution ii
now given that after tke expiration of the time
limited for the continuance of this advertise
ment (three months) the law will be carried
into rigid and complete effeift agamft all delin
quents.
By order of the Dire£lors,
IVALTER SMITH, Trtofurer.
Georgetown, May 1, 1797. iaw3m
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second-street.
THICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale
JL —This Lottery will pofitivcly commence
drawing the 29th day of May nast—Checkbooks
for regi/lcriog and examination in this, the City
of Washington, No. 2, and Paterfon Lotteries,
now drawing, are kept—also information where
Tickets in Walhington, No. 2. and Fatterfon may
be had—Tickets i;i the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery
for sale at ten dollars each, and as soon as issued,
Ticketsin all the other Lotteries authorized by the
Legislature of this state will be for sale.
The (ukfcriberfolicits the application of the pub
lic and his friends who wish to fell bank stock, cer
tificates, bills of exchange or notes, houses, land,
&c.orto obtain money on deposit of proptrty.
WILLIAM BLACKBURN.
April 2. 2^w
Musical Injlrument Manufactory,
No. 167, Arc!) Street.
HARPER, harpsichord, grand,portable grand,
Gd>fcoard, pier table and square piavo forte
mak. r front London, returns thanks to his frieiicU
and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hopes that by hi? assiduity and at'entu n to ev
ery branch of his buSncfs, to merit a corti«<uancc
of their favors. Piano fcrtes made on the n;weft
and most approved plans, wirh pedal#, paten?,
fwejl, and French harp flop, which he flattD s
himfelf will nc found on trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not superior to any import
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inflru
m«nt purchaied of him, if not approved of in
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of Musical instruments made,
tuned, and repaired with the greatefl accuracy,
dispatch, and on the molt reasonable, terms, for |
ready money only.
Second hand Piano Fortes taken in exchange.
May V:. tu & f ini
For Sale,
A pair of Good Black Carriage Horses,
Which may lie seen by application at No. 124,
Spruce Street, between Second and Third.
May 11. §.
500 Dollars Reward.
WHEREAS a certain ChriftopherF.Parnell,
failed from Bofion, on or about the 17th
of Oflober la#, in the sloop Union, with a valua
ble cargo, bound to Baltimore, but went off to
the Weft-Indies where he fold the vefli-1 and
cargo. On or about the firft inft. he was appre
hended (as a fufptcioiischaratSer) in this town,
and examined before several magistrates, but
for the want of fufficient proof to detedl him
in his villany he was discharged.
The fail is, the said Parnell is a villain, and
is attempting to defraud sundry persons to the
amount of 20,000 dollars.
He left this town about the 10th isft. he
rode in a chair (painted green) drawn by a grey
mare, and went on the Newbern road, but on
this fide Trenton, took the road of Favetteville,
and most probably is palling through the back
part of the state into the wsftern countries.
He had when he left this town, upwards of
20CO dollars in gold, and about 7000 dollars in
bank notes.
Parnallis a small man, about 30 years of age,
much pock-marked, and has long black hair,
remarkable small eyes, and has a down look
when spoken to.
Whoever will secure the said Parnell, and
the money he has with him, and give informa
tion te Benj.Williams of Baltimore, John Hogg,
Esq. at Hillfborough, to Mr. A. Jocelin, of this
town, or to the fubferiber, who is in pursuit of
the villain, shall receive the above reward.
tfBNER CRAFT.
Wilmington, (N. C.) April 16, 179 $
City of Waftiington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
| For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwelling-house 40,000 dollars,
Sc. cash 30,000, are 50,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 25,00® 40,006
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 ao,oeo
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,009 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000
» do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
20 do. 500 - - ie,Boo
00 dc. roo - . 10,000
*OO do.- 50 - - 10,000
400 do. 25 - 10,000
I,coo do. »o - 20,000
15,000 do. to • tf»,060
16,739 Prizes.
33,261 Blank».
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but oni :
And approved notes, securing payment ir. either
maiuy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received foi any number not less than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpecimcn ef
the private buildings to he eredled in the City of
Washington—Two beautiful designs arc already
(clrftrd for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawingsit ispropofed to ereSt
two centre and r our comer buildings as foonaspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the mannerdefcribed in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necelfary expenfes.of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Univerlity, to
be erected within the city of Washington.
The real fccuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL iiLODGET.
,§, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colom
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
For Sale,
At the Oflice of the Gazette of the United
States, No. 119, Chelnut-ftreet,
The laji Report of the late Secretary
of thfc Treasury; being a brief hillory of the
state of financial concerns of the United States.
The Proceedings of the Executive
of the United States refpc<sling the weitcrn in- ;
fuire<slion : Containing many fa<us and cir- j
cutaftances no where else to be found. 50 <
cents.
The Letter of Mr. Pickering to j
ourminifter in France. 371-1 cents.
An Account of the Receipts and :
Expenditures of the United States fortjie year '
1 79 -
A few copies of the volume for 1794 may be
had to complete setts.
D'lvernois' account of the Revo
lution in Geneva. 12 1-2 cents.
April 3. $
Mr. Pickering's Letter to Gen.
Pinckncv.
J
A few copies of the above interfiling paper,
may te had it the o3icc of the C;zette of the U
niied States. -
Ksyxj 5
TEAS.
A FEW diefts of Imperial, Hyson Skin arid
Souchong Teas of a superior quality for
sale at the (lore of the subscriber, the north
west corner of Market and ThirtWlreets.
Patent Shot.
ALSO,
A large CELLAR to be let at a very low rent
Enquire** above of RICHARD WISTAH.
April 29. ftu&thlta
This Day is Pullj/hld,
Price 15 Cents,
Bv JOHN ORMROU,
NO. 4I CHES NUT-STREET,
A Discourse,
Delivered on thcud of February, ifg',
At the FUNERAL of
The Rev. GILBERT TENN'EKT SNOWDEN,
Pallor of the Prelbyterian Church of CranbeiTY,
in the State of New-Terfey,
By the Rev. SAMUEL STANHOPE SMPTH
D.D. Prcfident of the College of Ncwjerfey
March II §
The Subfcrlber,
Determined to retire from bufwefj, invitcaall
' who have any note, bill, bond or acceptaice
of his, now due, to call for payment ; and these
who wifii to anticipate may receive the money
at a reasonable uifcount.
JAMBS SWAN.
May 11. diw.
1 Dorchester. ncarßcfiorf, t6thMaji79?.
NOW LANDING,
1 From on board of the ship GEORGE BAR
CLAY, Capt. Charles M'Alestir, from
Calcutta, the following GOODS, viz..
Coflas Punjum Cloths
Hummunis Gurrahs
Guzeenahs - India Calicoes
Emertica < Cotton Checks
Mamoodics Mulmuls
Sahans Red and Blue £ern>go>u
hkfs i
Tkkeries Patna do.
Jollas SantipoK do.
Carridarries Plain, striped and flowtr
ed fine muffins
Maragunges Ginghams
Baftas, various for|» TafTeties
Sattln Romals Bandanno red Lis.
ALSO,
300 Cases Sugar
40 Boxes do.
165 Bags do.
70,000 lb. weight heavy black Pepper
40,000 lb. weight Ginger
»0 Tons Hemp in Bales
9 Pipes Eafl-India Spirits
For sale by PHILIPS, CRAMOND tfCo.
May 4. dtf
This Day i* published,
By THOMAS DO B SON,
At the Stone House, No. 41 fouthSccoud-ftreet,
Price 37 l-» cents,
1 wo Leftures on Combujiioti.
QUpplemer.taryto a courfeof Lcdlures onCHE-
U MISTRY ; containing an Examination bf Dr.
Prieftlty's Confederations on the Dodrihe of Phlo
giston, and the accempofition of Water,
By JOHN MACLEAN,
Profeffor of Mathematics and Natural Phitofophy
in the College of New-Jerfcy.
May a» ir.wf^p
Venereal Complaints,
PUN CTI TALLY attended to in every stage of
that disease, without the use of marcury or
restraint of diet, in any cafe recent and fimplc, on
application at (No. 113, Chcfnut-llreet, opposite
the United States bank, or at No. 170, South Wa
ter-street, between Spruce and Pine-ftaeets, where
he has opened an office for the better accommoda
tion of his patients.
But in Lues Venerea confirmed, Do(3or Morgan
pledges himfelf, that no system of cure (totoevct
fpecious) can he effe&ual without mercury, and
that all the known rules of praitics for thele two
centuries pad, and united experience affirms, that
any fubflitute for it is but nugatory, and any mode
of praflice to the contrary rnuil be futile and de
ceptious.
Nevcrthelefs, he undertakes, however c..nipli
eated the cafe, to efteift a cure without inconve
nience or injury to the patient's conlli.ution, and
in time not generally experienced or txpeSed.
N B. Regular attendance at the office in Watsr
ftreet, from the.scour of nine o'clock in the morn
ing until one, and from three o'clock in the even- -
ing until seven; but any o'her time at his dwelling
house, in Chcfnut-ftrett.
May 16. , dtf
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
r is hereby given to the Sliarchold
r dollars is levied on each share, payable in the
folldwing instalments—viz.
One quarter immediately.
One quarter on the Ift of June.
One quarter ou the id September.
One quarter on the if! Dec. next.
| Which they are requrfted topay to the T'ea
-1 f;irer cf the Company at the Company's Office*.
. No. 53 north Fourth ft.-ect, agreeably to tie
times above mentioned ; and they are furt.'.r
' informed that on their negledtisg to pay the
fame as above direfted, the several forfeitures
diredled by the Constitution, Willi be exadled
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACira,
I'reofurer.
May 15 sim
Gold and Silver Watches,
OF an excellent quality, and neat fafricnabte
Gold Chains, Seals and Keys, Eight Day
Clock? and Time Pieces, fafhionable Steel and Giitr.
Chain*, &c. &c. for Salchy
JOHN J. PARRY,
Clock and Watchmaker, No. 38. S. 2d
* Clocks and Watches of all kinds cactfu.liy
repaired.
May 19. tuef. & fa. jw
TO BE SOLD,
A valuable thrte ltory Brick Hi'ufe ;
SITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank-os
Penufylvania, the lot on which it Hands, to
■ getlier with the vacant lot adjoining, which cx- 1
j tends to Goforth-ftreer. The houle is about to
, feet in front on Lodgf alley, and about 41 feet
j in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 fc«
• front on Lodge alley, and 41 £ect on Goforth
; street, being a street which lta<ls from Chefnut
, ltreet and Carter's alley into Doclc-ltreet »t the
1 horse market. The house cor. fills of ten lodg-
I ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dining-
I rooms, one of them foi.vfect in length, the
other about shirty-sour It-'r;. cadi containing
two fire places, two parlours and a large kit
chen, with cxtenfive cellars under, and garrrt».
over the whole, a privilege, cf a vacant lot
of ground ;o the eaftvard between this house
and the bark, a pump of excellent water in the
yard, a handsome piazza fronting the vacant
lot, and a frame llible and dwelling house ca
Gcfortli-ftrret. The premises now rent for
jC.3'B per annum. To be fold clear of all in
cumbrance!.
Forjerma apply to John Clement Starter.
April 10 3i „ t f