Dv tire and Pbiladelphia Daily Advertiser.
VtebfiA 1650.J
SALES BY AUCTION.
■ *' ■ ■ ■— k —
Hinted Sale,r
Ft# D R T GOODS.
MmJtrrJ />oA Frontnftrerft,
1 Afternoon—Footaian & Cd. IC6. 6?
( South Frqnt-ftreet.
T Forenoon—Joho CotneHy, Old Ciiy
n > No. 73 fout'h rront-ftrcrt.
J AfterjxT(sti—WiniJm Shannon, Nc>.
V. 183 High-ftrttrt.
mdAtfJay T A * erH L c^LT Pet / r 3 e nfon, No, 74
t south Third-ftrcet.
Thw/day \ Forenoon—Edward Fox.
C Afternoon-*—John Connetly.
Fridiy 1 Forenoon—William Shannon. ''
' 3 Afternoon —John Connerfy.
Saturday Ahertloon—fetfr Benl'on.
Marjhal's Sales.
United- Stfltrs, . 1 -
Pennsylvania Diftridt, J
U ' v,rt " w>'» Oi venditioni MpHmnij issued
. of the dilirift court of the United States, and
L me , S2S«' will be fold at P«tficSa.'c at the mer
«ha*t iCcT»ee*.Meu(e, m Second ftrfet, oft Wednelday
*7 lh d fT of December irtfl. at 6 o'elotf; in tbfc
evenidj all that piece of pircH <}f meadow ground
lituatc, lying and being in the township of Psflyunck
£,d county oi Philatielphis.dn the road leading to
: J L Ff"Y* coat aiding abont ftfty.four acres
1' t ™"" ,ch « s » vr hereon ire ercQed » two story I
k out houf,rs and a b '' r '' ! alfe ore o- I
tner ttaa or piece ot meadow ground, fnuate in tie
•1 j '"wnfnip and county, and nearly on the orrooW
thc la,d roadto the
crcs&
/jr piece of ground fru-rte on the north fide of fl-r.li
1 ji* Sf h an<, 6 'h Rreets, in theciiy e>f Pi»i
---1 adelphvat c<Mrtsimrrg' *n fronton Hrgfr (hoe't, thirty
»hr;e feet, and in tengrti or-dapth two huodrcd »ret,
bouncer] rail by property of Hannah Psm'Vrrton,
north ly Scuth alley, weft by property of William
Bell, ami muth bv (fieer sioreijtd.
4Mwa> and tiken ui csccot'ran as Ac property Of
Henry S ;-cJ, and to be fold by ,
Willi am Mr.boh, Mar thai.
MarGiai-'s. Oifiee ")
December If, t. fjj. j
DectmScr ,r. ;■ dtf
' lo he "old at Public Vendue,
(If not imfore dtfpofed of at private sals)
£ * day the fitftdtyof Janaary next, at Gsc
V / o'rlijci. in the evening, as the MerchanW Cos-- i
fee Hr.uCf, i„ Plnl.delphia, Twentv-Six Thousand 5
Seven Hfiodred and Eighty acres of t AND, in the n
State of Voile, between'the northern bounds f
of Pennsylvania and thcSuiqtiehanna, now, or late a
in the t" --n(hip» of Hamden and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgdmery One fourth of the purcbafe
money pald'at'ttle time offale j for thi refiduc V
«*difofone; two and tbrtc months, will be- giren;
on fetnrity.
4 ' 3tawtS.
To he Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before difpafed as at private sale}
\J o'clotk in the evening, at-the Merchants' Coffee
House, in Pniladelphia, Forty Thousand Nine Hurr
dted and Thirty-NKe acres of I.APJD in Gteen
county, Commnnwealth of P«n»fyl»»nra,on tha Wit
-1 te»s of Kilo and Wheriing .Creek* and teu Mile Run.
Thefc lands are fertile, well timbered and abound i»
! they were [fold ten years ago for ss. per acre,
p»tente«kjratJ)r< except which ba- v
tewed-ii*i7q»; of them were fur- ' 5
v»yed in 1789. A
Tom trasl is between the Ohio and Mrwmngahela, V
verycoiiveuieot 10 vvitertarrlage—about 19 miles from ,
tht-towisof Walhingloft, srtd from 141016 frohllbe
vijlages «Wlreen(}»iir«h.anU-Wheeling. Ooe fouVrt,"
ofihe purchstc moueyis to b« p»id at the time of 1 j:'
fjle ; for 1 hi- tefidiiea credit of one, two, and three P4
months-wrH be given; oh intsreft slid good fecurtty.
Dec.-1. l 3 >a*tj
w anted:
LARCE PARCEL OE
Scantling and other Lumber,, _
Suitsile for House Building ;
Alfaaquantity<)fStone&-Bricksj
i ' j-eaiy to enter-inTo'corWaiSs fdriht' a- J
btw«. arti».!es—a reasonable time-miy be allowed m
k>} preparing and tafll fhali-btpaid either QA
in advance, or upon their delivery, as may be a*
gi^ed'on.—Apply to theSubfcriber, HoufoCai>
penttrj Lbmbard-ftV'eet.'.Nb j.
"John Cretin.
flccetinbtr t<). d t.
»■ -■ —■'■■> ■ RB
STOL E N 1
Out -OftlrtffiiWcriber's office a large blue ~~*
cfolhdoak,half Worn. Theinfideof theCtsl!at'
is -fileectparriy wtth fcariet velvet and partly
wkh-fcarfet cloth, artd it ha* -n silver hobk '
and chain as afafltfHMigv A fnitabfe KtfSrd A
will:bifpaid for restoring it.' ,
WILLIAM'MEREDITH §
No; -111 South 3d Street: boai
Drt. 1 f6. dlyr 3d i
i 1 * F
TL)Y virtue of an order at thi- Orphan's Court, boat
D will be expefed to Sale, on the 16th eurrent,
at 9 o'clock, a. m.- at the premises,- a small frame p ,
Hoafe and L6t, situated on the corner of Sptiice
endEJghch ftrtets, futjeit to an anmral ground 1
\ rent of fifteen pounds, late the property of • Art*
thony Lebeek, deceased.-
MARGARET LEBECK, Adminijlratri*t.
December 16. *Jt ®
Td ,§]
A 'Front Room, suitable for an
Office o-r * Counting house, with a large Cellar. Sails
k Any who may rent the above, may (if tc- Pass;
quired) be accommodated with Board and Lodg
ing in thi: fame house. Enquire at no. 18c*, South A
Front, near PiAe llreet. IN
December 13. 3awjw «"
v NOW LANDING,
From on board the flu'p Farmer, lying at Harper's
Wharf, Have
Clacet in hhds. T .
Pitto in Cases
Sautor«e Wrnc in do.
For Sale, apply to Oil
JohaWhitefidc Sff Co. Bo ]
No. 538, S arket-llreet.' 1
Also, on band, li. 1
Bourdeams Bpaiwiy Ih pipe* 'vji£
Fine old Antigua Runt ■
A few cales of Claret, of a superior quality.
novembrr 29, § y UJ
Aft laying. Duties en Stampcd Vefhim f a y 1
Par-chment and Paper; t -
A FEW copies «f the above ait -hiay-behad aj
he Office of the Oazstte of- the IfnitAl States, NoJ'
, 19, Chefmit-ftrcet. y July 191 *.v,
■ PkILA WUDAY EVEWN©, DECEMBER n,
"tar. » . "l" 1 " '""" ' ' " ' ' ' ' .
Wanted to Charter,
Btitifh VefM, fifteen hundred
Peter Blight,
0. 6s WHO HAS F a SAL*,
" jJ?" Red ' P ® rt Wide in f,; pcs aR a hoglhejds,
cSty *nd old London Particular Madeira, St % imsip-
Ireet. d'«e ><e, in pipes.
Ma. ;_g^ a mb,_Tto ~ ; ' ■
i; ° r Savannah, in Georgia,
t The Ship A R A'Bj
Thomas Dc»ftOHOE, Matter,
®**dy to fei.l—Can accommodate a few
jrinam and Curracoa,
George Waihtngton,
' Jo-shDevhsix
~~ Mjße r.
For Freight, or Psdjgr, spp!y to
• aDa STEPHEN KINGSTON,
No. 46 Walnut, or 33 Dock-street,
?y li'ho ha,s afc ib- tloxesof
jund
Bloom arid Mufcacei Raifms, acd
nck - Gin in Pipes.
icres December! 8. *2t
)°7.1 For Savannah,
tic CFb fail on or (ttfafrr Suni.-fy, tfye 24'tfi inft. unless
OCue the ice)
•n»- >*-*3 The fa'ft filling Ship
*££ Swift Packet,
f*Wi- Patrick Gribben, Afqfier.
irfy Q fflffgfT TAS excellent accorumo'aa
cct, -v_<;fj tioß* for paffengen.
;0 "' For Freight or passage, apply to
ssra ' N. is? J. Fraxier,
f<St no. 95, f -ath Front street.
Who have for Sale, received by the said Jbif, '
New RICE, in whole and half tierces.
Becemhrr 16 dlw r
r For Anifterdarti, -
' F A R m p£ *
si* Joint M'CoiLoif; Master; 1
- T few days, the 1
nd -•'- r greater part of her grgo being e<
•J c . ready. For freight ,of fifty tons of Coffee, pr pas- 3 i
, f a S«> »pply to the master on board, at Walnut* 1 U
! e fti'edt vrharf, or to' f A
JOHN SAVAGE. N
ue Whft'isTiandirfg, oiit of the fild'Sfttp, fnorti Bbttf- I.' 9
n, deaui, and For Sale, r '''
Claret in hhds. L«
White ih cfnattfei'caftV ||"
, Clafet in cafei, of* a fnpiriot-quality I!"
Fentiniac, "J [| p
Sauterne, > Wises in cases - I!
ee- Lunille, ) Ij'
n . F'rimes'in fcoiea' I, J'
uovrrnhrr 141 $ I
For Londonderry,
• THE BnG'ANTINX 'j
f; SUK EYy |
Wntmi, Masses.
>• * jf {Vtong-jgood vefl«!, about two I
" hundred tans, to fail with all convenient speed, al'
great part of her cargo engaged—now lying at ji
|( Willing an'd Ffkflili'swhatf. For freight ; oV'pif- I j
e (sage, apply to this"caplifn, or |j
JOHN 3KTHIN, I fr«
L a fide *bergtt*s -wbarf. JW
Who Avantß'to Charter. j l '"
A' Vi6itL of about thrfe' hundred ton*. 11 —
<wti-iß> §- II
For Sale or Charter, Fr<
' IT" Snow !
A GbOD Hb^ET,
t W l ''' cafi-y about 1200 barrels, ami j
• 18 r " a yto a -FoUerhis I
. ®" fiSia **'iipply to i_J
Pr'Ugm' If Co.
No.'lJl, Sdilth'Se'j6l)d-ftreet. T
Who •have for file—oriftte St/Oftri'Sngaf ahd I ■*•
j' Rn«n, Madeira, Lilbon, and Terttt-iffe wine. I 'tor
November 7. dtf. war
, : .... th '«
For Liverpool, VTai
. v— Tb. Copper bottomed Ship I
Hamburg Packet,
WW,'' Captain SiCA< S*Aitl.'
-fiy-.-';A". Lar X e proportion of her _ ,
cargo being ready to go on 1
board, is expeiScd to fail on or about Sunday, the
3d of December.
For Frefght or fa (Tig*, apply totHiCarttaio on
board, at Walnufftreer Wharf, or to '
PHILIP- NieKLIN b" Co.
November it. § I
For Savannah, in Georgia;
THE SHiy
jyggtf- • Sally-Butler, Ju
Captain Chisbolm, [
A"ne<v veffdl; \vifh no
" aecommndatian s for p
Sails on the roth of December. For 'Freight or GS
Pafiage, apply to ROSS t3* SIMSON. TT
IVio lave to dtf*oft sf t W
A small invofce of GLAIJBER.SALTS stofn
INDIGO, ami i. parcel ef HOILY WobD. and «
«"**rfcr lß ' § Ticlti
, IT " DMu '\
Rundie & Leech, m e
I Have just deceived, and havt-for Sale, at utf. o ton ' !
Wainut-ftrett, t, .°" v
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT u"im
I Dq. be-ft house CO A LS N.
Queens' WARE in cafei, a/Tofted felling
Bourdemj* BRANDY of an excellent quality difcon
f Do. CLARET in cj r eß, do. Lands
thfV f'AVE also '
For SALE Of CHARTER 1 ,
' T,,E SHIP r».j
Ull? ' PEGGY, 1
Burthen 125 tons, in excellent condition, and Tc r
may be fent'to sea with Tittle ex'peiice or delay. 1
LlXliH'ls'i, 7 tiiU
WILLIAM,' »° be j
Burthen aoi tons,
tivemicr 16. ' * r,j,
By John Fenno, N» ii 9
mdrsd Ft* Cftarlcftom
Id bar- J - i THE 9 h'lr
VENUS,.
"» " & vill take Frefj^'an^jry
* „.. .. r . m t 'XA
ihejds, opeuioj Aj>)>ly to ckc ».,:.voiikrJ. «r to
"««- >. fcf Co.
t».Frefh Raiuns. '
A £r " , , ! «te>. juVrrircd, and now Win*.
. Chc-fntßjlrect fiharf, t, o m the flaftn \S.
a few i'im' C Tc of Kw,, Bones an*
ofteft A " ellfnt ™<f -&cks
Of foft theiled Almonds> Apply to the Mister
t on boartj, or to
v J os - Anthony Sff Co.
| o
0? Co."
/0>? SALE,
At fheir'STOßri on Walnut street Wharf,
; a> Havanna^Sugars, whiteandbrown
$5 Jamaica <Jo.
3 « f | V'- 0 <tf-f>ro«d Natokecn't
a Tea, in quarters-and eighths** chefc'
Quicksilver to
St SS"P.'V" hog (heads
r reneriffe Wine jii pipe?
QM i cd Fort Wine
in hog-she: 111
nlefs A ai) »Wte.t, No. ito 8
8 c*fesof Manc&fter Good*, eonlitting of Dimities,
& s
1 i OO , o "'"^^ B ' «'are, aborted.
Nails, affortcd
rr. Bl»-.k rtuart Bcrtfjes'
oda- YeJlow Qcrt >° fwlrt
A quantity of waiting S!a|e», flatelnkStinds, ate. t
ICO quarter ca&» f OW(ter j
Ji>nJ>ay^f t
zt. Tbejhf MO-Ll.r, burflu-n jffo "tout, a
;■. go<*d VciTcl, ahd compUt'ly fittwT
- T!>c brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar- j
v refc, may be ready for sea in a few day».
The whole of the' atoove rciels to be seen at
Walnut flrect Wharf; § nov . Ic . r
FOR SALE, At
Wm. Yottng's Book Store, J
No. Ji, fjecond street, the cornfcr of Chefnut street, x
' P EPORT of the Committee of the House of
:he J-V Repr«fentativesof the United Slates, appoint- ~
ing ed to prepare and report Awiijeiof Impeachment T
atf. a gain ft WILLI Al BXOOVT, a Senator of the
ut- t United States, impeached of high c.-mesaml mis. •
f dejneaftbrs, made in put-fuatice' of a resolution of
I: the Hoafj of Reptefeutatives, authorizing the'fald E1
if. [.' Commjttee to lit during the recess of Ccflfrefs, slid" 01
|. iiMtruvaing them "to enquire, and, by all lawful A ,
I'" "leans, todiiccvor the whole nature and extent
|l" of the offence whereof the said William Blount
|(" ftipds impeache J, and who are the parties and
li" associates therein."
|! Printed by order a/the Hoa/e 0/RepreJeSfatiVes. i
(j DectmUtr to, §
James C. & Samuel VV. Fifhei 1 . °*
AT THEIR STOMS, *.
I; corner of and Front streets,
I; . ■. HAPS fOR SALX,
! Cotton and woriled Hosiery in trunlci, assorted r
I' £,' ew bsJes red ' j\Q<l yellow FlauneU
If UJfto fntry rfcmall UlndlrtrchUfs Oi
J j Ditto'Pullicat fflk' diito lu
I, Ditto Pondicherryiaml Midri&;ditto" an
re I•' Ditto Gurrahs'
■a'lj Bengal black Tatftties tfi,
at I; 4000 pieces Nankeens, and
f- I Few chrlti V>eft Hyfou T#a
I Asd —1500 boxt i belt Lond'eri "WTndo* Glafi,^
I jfrom 8 by 6, to 19 by i4--and 15 lihjs. Glah' T,
j |W»re; assorted, which they will dispose of cheaper
1 jtlian any in the city.
I j nAyjhit'er' t%: jaiyT* T'
Landing this dniyy ° b
I From on board thtfchoonerTwof'fienH^Oln
lei CfaWley, Mirttr, ...
:
J FOR SALE BY ' {
j j George Latimer & Son.
Hovember 9.: . . .... .'. j
James Richard Srtitth-
I the liberty of friends'
jI X and the public, that they have removed thfcir ]
J ilort td No. 54, Sixth Front-Jfred, Jieit d«t>r to Efl-
ward^ Fox's Auction Room/ where they Ijayci at
I this time /or fale,a large and general aftprtnicnt °f I >
European Ss 5 East India 'Goods, the
U ™ , °'"" «*• -
O&.tj'J $
jyOW'LA'NDING,
. I At SoUt'h-ftreet 'Wfjaff,
- j The Cargo of the Sb'ip Concord\
Captam Thompson, from Batavia. ..
About 300 tons firft quality Java Coffee (the ,
wKbfe br " J
80 tons.Java Sugar, in canffttfTS' and bags 1
10 legurca of old Arrack
I NUtmags, Mide and Cloves J\
FOR f.«i qt
PETER BLIGHT.
Who'alfo ojfers For Sale,
j Just landed frapi (hip Amity, from Jamaica. '
ao® tihds Jamaica and "P)
X7O do." do.' Rum. JLV
november a,;. liber
Canal' Lottery-—Mo 111 liege
WILL commence drawing Monday,, thtzoth ot
inft. Tickets for Sale io at ® c^'?
Stotn Dollars, at Wm BLACJCBURN's Lottery he w
and brokers Oiffce, No. 64, South Second-D'reet— He '
Tickitsli: the BchuylMlt Bridge Lottery, st s"m v ' lnt:
DMars, whefe chec'.c books are pegider- 011 61
ing ahd examining hi these, the'Ciey of Walhing- ancl J
ton, No.JI. and 1 Paterfon Lotteries, and, iutoriui- num '
tion where tickets be had iu mod of the Lotte- arrar
ries authotilfd'fcy law in any of the States of 'the t ' lc
Union. andC
N. B. The buGnefn'of a anit atten
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities, 1,01
ciirconnthg Biljs and Notes of/Hand, fate ol ed at
Lands, Hourc», &.C. Sic. wi,) be duly attended to ")lar
by ' Wm. BLACKfiURN. "<•
november 15. A
The History of Femnfylvania, ,p a
B* ROBERT PROUD, chand
IS now in the preis, and will be publifted,
with all convenient expedition, by Zi cha-
R^a'h Poulsoi4, juii. No. 80, Ctiefhuf-ftVeet,
Plliladelpfita, wheve fubftfi-iptions will totlti'nue . „
to'be receiveHi iml'at the Philadelphia Library, J
according to the'printed propofai?, until the Ths
work is ready for tiefufel'crihert. No
J ll) y 18. aawtf sice of
Bank of North America.
A ~ "
JH£ Stockholders are herefey eotified, tlu' an
•WftvlfQii lor tw clve Direciors, for tlie ensuing year,
, »?iil beiuld ,4t the imnK .on Monday, thc<StU of
*bqJ(s mv+ry r<rrt, tm nVlceV.
,*ry ' RICHARD WELLS, Cajh':er.
efir.l December tf. ,ttßth[
" to Delaware and bchuylkill Canal.
'« . StotkhHkrs arc hereby notified, that the
e for Prefidcrt and ftayagen, for the \fatu~
wi " bc l,eM " tli: to ™P»«V'« "slice, on i
•tlk>fii4 Monday it. J-rnnry next; at too'cWk.a.iu.
WM. MOORE SMITH, fee'™.
~^ <cc^er mwicftilir^l
fcdes Schuylkill and bulquehaniiaCanal.
fHt Steckholders are hereby notiCtd, that the
ekelibn for I'rtfideß' and jUaiiagcrs for the enfu
• J. e3r> i" v '"' >e ac 'hr company's office, 6u
V* ' ■ Monday in January next, jit 10 o'cl-Kik, I
*' **' D'-t . I r. rviw/gr t ftni T
Peenfylvania Population Com
pany.
Wn TPB Sharebplders are hereby notified, that an
.Ekilion of>)Scer S for the ensuing jear-. \vjjj be
Wldat the Company'soffice, n0.5 -, north Fourth
• ftfect, on Wednesday, the roth day of faiiuarv
next, at 1 a o'clock,
.. .t By ofder a the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, See'ry,
December 16 eodtiothj
tlei, J ..
&«• Insurance Company of North '
America.
THE Stockholders are hereby informed,.that's
stated meeting of the Company wi.l be Jiefd at .
«c. tr,c!r f?lhcc the niluih day of January next (he
#«oadTuefdiy in the ntftcth) for the Rlec
tion of twenty-five D»rc-<slors for the enfuiitg year.
»• ElifiN. HAZARD, See'ry. a
December 14; thgtmtothl 11
ar " Philadelphia and
at pike Compa-ny.
; ' i 'HK Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
X annual .Eleftion for O fflcers for the enfuino
year,will be held at the Company's Office in Phila
delphia, on the second Monday in January next, at
et i ld 0 cUck, A. M. Wm. GOVETT, See'ry.
December 7. ats m&wt7j f
i f- Amefica'. E
M Meeting of the' Stockholders is to be hetd, a- ?
Jd gteeably to adjournment, at the Company's office,
1 1 : on the fixtt Monday in January next, at 11 o'clock, M
u \ *• M - EBEN. HAZARD, See'ry. :
" Pec«mber 14- th&mtl»J Lj
id Insurance Company
OF Tliß STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
'• ' I 'HE Stockholders are hereby notified, that an j®
_ JL EJe&ion for thirteen Directors to ferre for. r!'
1 one year, will be held at the company's Office, on
> Monday, thi eighth day of January next, at 11
o'clock; Sh
SAM- w. FISHER, See'ry. ■ BI
, December 14. dtßthj tQ
A fifty Dollar IJank Note, pj;
Of the Bank of the United States, was loft oh Sa
turday last, between the Bank of the United States
and the Hbrfe market—lf an houeft person has
found it, and will leave it wth the Printer hereof; T'
they.ihalf be hinifomely rewarded-
December n. tojjt t0
NOT I~C E. fa
In' To boMirs of y/MES GREENLEAP, v
:r and ED WARD FOX'S 1 En & agtments I
TN confeqilence of many having been prevent- :
from late iißavntdable circumflancesfrom
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to 'former «n r
notice. •'J'lie Trulyes infortji them, Ui'ey in
ar e , } &}% i; lame toi tluifc yvho may ap- of
tfta 1 ;® fixtydajs, at No. 8 Street, h »v
•to those whrt do hot, witl beeoufnltrccl 1- re-
■ linqAfthin j their claim on the 'Acgregst'e'Fond''
provided "f'6f thei. tnViiK
HENJtX: ERA^T,
THC.MAS W...FRAN.CJS,
JOHN JUN.
JQ.'IN ASHI.F. Y, I
r. JACOJJTiiKEH. j
Deeember 15. dftct t
' WANTS A P|LACE, )
.As cpachm.iM, a bLck Man, vvh■> car\ produce
the Left recommendatious. Znquirc of the pnn- (
- Kf ' . ~. : ... ' k P"- ,6
For Sale by th'e Sulpfcribers,
Pritne Ric/fn jwhole 'ahd half tierces
Bourdeayx Brandy (~1
Tenenjfe If'we
Molttfes A'e
GdergtA and Carolina InJigQ 0 '
Rtvehs' Dltlk and one hagfhtad'of pbrit '""'j
brujhei. t 1
rf. & y. Prater .
No. fsfSbnfh Front Street. fujj
N°v. 7- dim.
MUSIC.
J. L. LEN
' \ c - ,c ' ,e, i 01 Vocal antj inilrunicutal Mufie, _
hisfinctre thanks to the Ladies and
. Gentlemen, from wh~m he received a very
liberal encouragement since his residence, jn t{ii« ri- ,J!
tyand r'efpcAfulfy informs his and the [tub -
lie generally, that, in consequence of the requefl
of Came of his friends, be has; opened a Muficjl
School at his houfc in Spruce Street No \ 74,1-v-hej'e
lie will teach ok the Piino'fortc, Violin &c. &c,
He dednos ft unnicctfary to enlarge upon the ad
vantages the iearticr will derive from an inaituti
011 6f this kifid; he will bnjy fay,'that attention
and zeal are much excited in an aiTsmbly, .Where
numbers are in pursuit of the fame ohjeA. His
arrangement is such, that an interference of Lhe no
the different sexes will be avoided. Those Ladies
andOenthmcn who cannot maft# it convenient to . „
attend at his school, he will wait upon at their A I
hoiifes.- Applications w'U be thankfully recejv- with
ed at his house, where jus terms and further parti- vo ,i n
culars mpy be known. la
fc - 7- * rweod tr^
Alphabetical' Lift of Duties,
Payable by law on all Goods, Wares, and Mer
chandize, imported into Units;) States latcft
edition, to be fold by JOHN OR.VIROD, no. a:
Chi, frut-f'reet. Dac. 16 —d*' 11
TO BE SOLD,
Or Exchanged for Property in the Country, A
That three story Brick House, £*\
No. 157, north Thiid ftre-t. Apply at the o r - m 0
lice of this Gazette. nor. 2? _ w &s4w q$
in Burlington for Sale.
year' i (,' a large, convenient im u .
Ik of £J k &*t$ W ! fe > **h «»»«. Carriajf*.
rffcifl* a w *j® Garden, in the City
slf «Inch he wffcts to
thT SE&Pr UrmS ' f NT °' J» * Dn < h Fou " h
thr Kucil, to GEORGE WALKER,
nai. - • • who has alfi for Sale,
»t the Lfrts in Waftiington City,
(,'n h? S S ' mUS '° the Cj P !t ° I ind t0 < h < Fincip:l
: A ' W - cttDhern. I , .
£
rial. A«l' MAN , who cwiH bring tin difpi!-
-the defronsto be cm
offiSfui! 4 Ca frf' C,ty ° f COFyir, 2 Ckrk ' *' » public
LF. TZi U ' d rn terms!
'I ' I ;sr[,cuiars squire at the office of t
nir ~ . * , Pec < o
_ WR s /?/.£, I ~~"
m- J°HN MILLER, j.un. to* Co.
N0...3, Chduiu-f Tret
One hundred and eight*, bales
: ,£ . BENGAL GOODS,
jrih . Amcngfi. wl.icTi
larv 2*?" S Mamoo&es
Faltas S.«mns
Gurztnahs rag/k ColUes
Kmeru'ce
T 5f e Clo,hs Calico*
A m " * emall pfcfeft
Atnongli them are a great proportion of ih«
t T mmufaaures 0 r Patna.
r>«c»mb<T i. j.
:t» n Ail I'erion* 7
lat ,he Efta,e <hP
he- thirge bwiu, are reaufUtd to
W w P"nvf'y Mtefl'cd; on or
:,r - ar,i ,h , t!a >' i/a«W i»« tufaing
and those who are indebted to faici eflate «,e (o
f hcited to make immediate .payment to
-i. oARAIi IRWIN, Adnnniflrhtrix.
2q 1797.
JVSTRECEIVED, '
he (via New-Vort)
ng and now opening, by
at George Dobson,
No. ij, south Third ftrect,
An extensive and general assortment of
h HABERDASHERY, viz.
Best London mixt Pin, | Galloons and Ferrets
a- Common do do. Worsted Binding,^ffor
:c, sfpp«r,p»tect | ted'colour*
k ' Nrn Tk J 1 Ntc f cs Imperial, diaper, and
Nuns Tfcrsad no. 6to Thread Tapes
. 4P>re&ularly assorted Whits Edgings
_ Lisle 40.n0. 130 to joo, EUk, nd coloured Chi
regularly assorted ncsa Ribbsnds
Coloured do. Sattin and figured do.
in Black few,ngS.lk, Black Velvet? 1-4 to x ,d
N.?.i?° Ur H do ' a "d Twist Velvet & pelou Sattias
» Silk and cotton Wires Frencfe Cambrick
I U t o - Rlbbantjs Scotch do.
.85»R3K~ »L£ -
And a compleat assortment of Oaods, suitable
_ to the prpfent and approaching fcafon, at reduced '
Dec 4.. lM
■_ the partnsrship q/
u Richard £sf' James Potter,
f; T 8 tl "* da 7 d'ffolred, by mutual corfent. Xll
P er 'oi)s isdfbted to the raid firm, are reoutfied
to fame to of the fubferibers' r and
Ptr i io f • a , 7,O J g ? ny tisrasn ' ls 'fT-'inft them, ere
.requeued to fend their accoujit;; foi fettlemeut.
t RiffjgrJ Potter,
_ . James Potter.
December 9, « ,
n ihc Sillpfcnber intencjs'tb jpake
r Wl«c«»« of a Certificate of, Share
ot A R P StatCS > (ta ' lci '"S n»T,e
otA .B. dated Julv 11. i7q 7 . thr fim c
, j 01] ;/ ('l( 11 ANI!
. iMchmoiid, pre. u
r ROSS Ss 1 SIMS ON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, CofTas, and
a quantify of Ben-al COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in l,sgs and boxes
Sf. Vincents, C RUM.
and Bengal J
300 calks RJOE, ;nd
A parcel of ship buildingßEli CEDAR
Chocolate and Mustard,
• manufadlured,
Cr 7? a p fPPf. jtooqd ; ftelled or
VT peafjan ley; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale anu Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale •
London -I'ot-rer , red. Port and Lilbon Wine"
iUitaMe for exportation or home coiiftimption.
Air '£ \ P'ice given for MuftardrSeed.
Al/9 jprjylf , A quantity of Bocking and
common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of
FuJhans, Shawls, &c, for falety
JOHN HA WORTH,
Ne. 98, south Front-ftrcef.
»7-' m.&th.t^ij.
Inl P,o.rted (via New York)~on the
ship -Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
, b y t,w Cubfcriber, at No. 61, Chefm.t ftrect,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Mabavag 9ns -d, ~ Charcqnna Dorcns
Chintz and Qahcoes Dacca wo4.ed muflini
GiJlis Ropials Bandannoe^
a< t & Pen Haloes Chafla Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
V.uli Mullhankerchiefs Palempores
fS? 7 , ,!o ' Banares Opium
Leflcr Caraimum Seeds.
t Samuel Wilcox.
no-vemher 17 tuths^v
FOR SALir T;
A Team of five excellentHorfes
with a VV apß on and Gears. The Horses are all
y&utl", strong, jpje to the draught, and capable '
ot 'lauling ae great a weiijln as most in tbccou«-
_try, The Waggon and Gears are ftronfj, anil
m good order. Apply to ROBERT GREEN
Weft Town, Chefler, county, oriio
Thomas Fi/her,
No. i At , S. Second Street, Pl»ij«de!|ihi*
■ 1In ?°-> . ■ end,,:
Wanted, to Hire,
A Urge and convenient HOUSE, in or nf? r
the centre of city—lor .vhich a giberoo.
rent will be given; to be taken tor a year, or on
more for a lon ; -r term. Inq.nreof :hi Winter
° a ' r "' entl
[Vczuxe XII." %}\yt oasctte,
PHILADELPHIA, J'a
FrUDAY EVENING, DECEMBER s».' I for
I. j dev
COMMUNICATION. J I
French Re/'Jons for condemning an■ American > not
FeJJel and Cn*go. I 1
That the R&leil'Ecuiipage, prcfVnted by Cap j w > ((
tain Lanrcr.ce, ♦•either contain' (be do-nicil, nor (
the plitJ rf btrt'n of the individua's there n in- .
ferted ; that the coutit.y is onlt' m;ntione<l of ,
seven oftjiciu, out of twelve that are therein j all
jmlud'ed ; thtf neither the role or the tngagt- wli
HicntJ afe cUitd, contrary 10 tlir express desire ; n
in the pi 'nted part at top — i hat no docu
ment pi. rcr that ,Captain Laurence has been
avttUcrifid bv the publio oflictis appointed tor j
that pr.rpof*, to uKe on board the Sitp/carga,
or his fervaiit, which be term< Passengers, ann
of which the role mattes no mention. th^
That the Direaory decreed, that conformable n -,b
tfvrh.- 14w of 14th February 1793, thedif| ofi- am
tiens of tl:e regulaiioßE of aI It October 1744, (st
and of i6!hj«iy 1778. concerning the manner
to prove the property of neutral (hips, a/id yro- .
perty f.ul! he executed according to their form r,f
tenser j that, in consequence, every Ameri
' can v. ffcl fliali b: made a goo'l of, 'bat cnl
flail not -have :-tt b 'ard x role d'e~p»2e en due be
f:ich r.s is bv the model already wa
'ni.,..ioned, 0/ wVich the exscutinn it ordered an<
by the 25th and 17th articles of the aforefaui
treaty.
Th't from thence it can no longer be doubt
ful, that t: c (hi Piato ought to be condemn-', dll
a good prize —,l ti*s this eertifieaie of the Consul
ita'es, retiring at Leghorn, isupon an
a flieet of paper annexed to the role d equipnge, £ ri
and upon which alone he ha* put his conluUr
seal, i.hen it to have bee/t place i equ.liij
the print pal Jhect ; does not do away '
the nullities ret.-rred to, as it contains nei- oe
(her the causes of the crew being changed, nor an
the place oi birth or of residence of the ind.vidu
sis, nor the names of the palTengers, nor the g C
jiits of engagements and of (hipments, nor, in
short, the proof that the original role d'equipage
bad been signed by the pubi c officers of the
place cf his departure. ' r
That fir.ee tUe (hip Plato is found in the ca't zc
of condemnation, Jt ought to be considered as th
enemy, and consequently according to tie 7th et
article of stk title of the marine ordinances of cc
r6St, which have not been abrogated, thfc car
go ought equally to be confifcatcd.
That it carnat bs alledged that thisariielere- (
fers onlv to vefTcls taken under the enemy's flag, a '
becauje.tht shippers ought to alTure th«mftlves, "
by t'fer.tabfc examination, whetherthe neu'rali- Yc
ty of the velfcl announced by its fljg is otherwise a;
properlv proved by the papers on board. n-
Done in the French Cor.ful's effice, at Mala- V|
.ga, iif September 1797. v <
REMARKS. _ f.
Here then it an instance of a regular Ameri-
can veil el, bound from Leghorn (a neutral port)
to Baltimore, being condemned, and her cargo
alto, under the rr.oit frivolous pretenrrs. This Cl
vefTcl ii.id a role d'eatiipage, figr.ed by the A g
r.u-ncan Consul at Lfrghtirn, but because the ji
original role d'equipage rrom New-York, was |
r.ot produced, and there had been 1 change of I
some of lbs fcair.cn either from death or defer , £
tion, arid bei aufe the American cjnful placer!
his leal on a sheet of annexed to the role
d'equipac'i when it ought to have been don: to 1
the principal, the vefft! was considered a good r
prize, acd by the fame logical reasoning, the h
cargo was also condeinned. * i
This is ouefentei.ee of the fcVrible Kepul.lic.
This role d'equipage is the bell fyC.rvV that
eould have been fallen on, to put ant feMttfn
into the hands of the Dritifb, as upon th s cvi- t
dence alone they can take their fcamen 011 baard 1
our vefTels. 1
»he role d'equipsg?contains the name, birth,
fefidence and citizenthip of the crew, and if
born m Britain, and not in America before the t
peace, they are considered Eriti(h fubje^t.
1
FROM A VIRGINIA PAVER.
M_ . C
Mejfrs. Printers,
The ditdoguelately publiflied in your Muse- ( j
um under the signature of " Student,"
was well received by the public so far as
my observation has extended ; encourag- ,
' ed by his success, I beg leave to trouble ]
you with another, which I over-heard the j |
other 'day between a Frenchman and a ,
Virginian: —By publifhingwhich I doubt \ ,
not but it will render equal fatisfaftion to ]
your readers. And oblige yours, &c. ]
Philo-Stubent.
Frenchman. So. now my good friend
John Federal, we are now all citizens of the 1
wbrld j and T am come oyer to advise you
what you fliould do.
Virginia". Advice ! Monfew Francois ;
do yoii pretend to give advice ? And what
advice have you brought with you I
F. My advice is that you (hould not
think so highly of your American liberty,
or suppose it worth keeping ; buuhat you
fhpuld give it up and become as free and
as, happy as we are.
V. As happy ! if you cad your prelent
situation happiness, what mud you have been
used to » .
F. Oh begar, it was so very bad it could J
not be worse. . .
V. What !—Did you begin to dilltke
your black bread \
F. No :—Blaei bread is a one very good
thin"-: and we are now glad enough to get
it. but join us and I think you will
soon learn to like it. • .
V. No that won't do : black bread would
foOti turn four « n an American (lomSch.
We are used to corn bread, good homany,
flrong leather jhces, and goodjhirts.
' F. Leather (hoes and good (hirts . Un,
my friend, that's luxury. Wooden Jboes are
very comfortable : and as to (hirts, they are
no mere necessary than breeches.
V If the French think so that may be
all very well for them : but if you are so
easily fatisfied, what could go wrong With
F. Perhaps you have heard of the Bajli'e )
and that the uoblefse could fans ceremonie,
have any one he chose sent to a dungeon
there for life. __
V Aye by Jove ; but if one was to try
these tricks here (hould havt:6or Habe*
Corpus and swingeing damages for felle un
prifonment : our juries would not be very
merciful to thofc kind of gentry.
F. Perhapi; you might : but the ba.o.e,
T ard 1 that was nothing ; we did not mind
that. It was a flea bite. Wc were twen
ty-scut millions of people : they could r.ot
£s®. ; I :l " us all in a: or.cc ; nr.d ihofi who Were fist<
J oiit \f-ould dance and ftng as if nothing had or g
i Ir-tppened ; or, believe me, t'nty wcie not V
f Frenchmen. cure
j V. Net mind-imprifonmen- in.a dungeon kno
l for life !if you did mind that, what the as :t
j devi 1 did you miiid ? I
F. Wc all minded what we all'fit ; and mtn
ican > nothing clfe. ers,
I V. And what did you nil fid then ;or tirrn
, what cotild be worse than thehnltile 1 our
J i(1 1 F. Many tilings in France, my dear Jyhn l'ec
■<l of ' Federal were a thousand timer, worse. We lies
frein | all felt our taxes ;we all felt the maimer in
:agt- which they wire i.r.pof.d ; and the manner cqu<
lefitie in which they were levied. waj
loc»- V. Why, to be ftire, taxes are very bad the
J«- thingsbut lam afraid there is no doing dre
3J well without them.
anA F. It was not the taxes we minded but a r<
thq abuse of them. In the fitft place the zer
ruble nihility and the flcrgy*two very numerous ter
T-oO- and opulent bodies amongd us, paid n» tax
-les at all.
V. Why, they could bed afford it ; the fer
form rich folks pay almolt all the taxes with u*. bo'
m#r ; F. But not so in France ; the rich were its
that entirely exempted. But we could have mc
n due borne that, if that had been all. The word pu;
•eadi- waS) the intendants of the provinces or
and thsir deputies had the whole dire&ion the
' c a ' u as to who (hould pay taxes, and who not. cd.
oubt- V. In America, however, it is very
mri'" 1 . different.
onful F. The intendant could exempt or charge ma
upon an y one as, he pleased. His relations, his wi
P'S e > friend, his deputies, their coufin3, and dc- un
I,ula , r pendents, were favored op discharged from tk<
*'vav taxe3 as pleased : and the. whole bur- iul
, nei'- den was to fall on the poor, the friendlefs, fat
, nor and thofc who were the lead able to bear it. an
ividu- V. And how long had that cursed work tu
or the gone on in your country.
or, in y. Some centuries. Bi
linage v. Some centuries ! It would not have hii
3 I,e laflsd in America, some hours. Why yc
ie ca'e zounds, man, if a big man was to try to a"
ed as throw his taj*es upon one it would not be bi
lie 7th enough td let him hear.ofit at the county
ces of court, I would make the whole continent di
ie car- w ; t j, ; t> - p;
. F. But we did, and we bore other things
'« flag, 86 What do you think of the /alt-tax- tl
Pelves! es ? Every poor family wastopayfor so much F
•urrali- fait every year, whether they used it or no ; A
erwife and there were from 3000 to 4000 poor ei
meii, women and ehildren, sent to prison e- w
Mala- ver y y car ( an da large number of them tra- o
veiled on a miserable journey to the gallics,) f<
for endeavouring so avoid the tax for the
\rneri- f a [ t w },; c }, they could not afford to use. ri
. c°rcl v. Bad ! very bad ind«ed Monfwur Fran-
This c °'* ■' I Shan't like the name of France a- c
the A- gain for some time. But could you get no 'I
ife the justice ? 11
k, wjs | p. No : for as our judges purchased their t
"!f r° f I places, ft» they carried on the market, and n
, j fold the law to the bed bidder. The suit- t
er w,(l ° had the longed purse, or the hand
don: to fomell wife, or a friend at court, cared re
a good rv little for what his antagonid could fay ; 1
g, the he was sure of his cause let the law be what F
it would. u
public. y. Well now and tint's the difference e
mcr. hetwixt you and us. If a rich man and a i
Irs tvi. poor man have a taufe in our courts, and
übaird the law pretty equal between them, I'd lay [
three to one the poor mail carried it. J
•, birth, F. Perhaps he might. But again : the f
and if game-laws ! you have no game laws here I a
, ore the think.
*' V. No. I have heard of such in Eng- i
land where no one mud (hoot on anothers t
ground unless he pleafcs. 1
F. Not (hoot on anothers ground unless '
Muse- | he pleases ! What will prevent '
ident," y. The law.
3 far as That was not so in France. And, in <
:ourag- ttuth, if it had been only eoming on ones
trouble j an( j to J-ill the game, there would not have 1
ard the j muc h in it : but it was what was call- I
and a e( j t j, e p re J~ erv ation of the game that was our
[ doubt j Jtfiryflion ; and if their game had been on- 1
ftionto ]y a f tvv innocent partridges or cowardly i
1 & c * hares, or here and there a roguish fox, we '
ENT * (hould not have cared much for that : but
friend the wolves, wild bears,- and herds of wild
sos the deer, that were quartered on u«, laid wade
ife you the whole country : and if we attempted to
defend ourfeltes againd them, and to save
-aneois ; part of our crops, Our herds and flocks,from
id what their ravages, the gallies for life was the cer
-1 tain punishment.
lid not V. By Pharoah, Monfitur Francois, this
liberty, was Egyptian bondage— more bricks and
hat you no draw.
•ee and F. Worse than Egyptian bondage.—
Not content with fending in upon us those
present savage animals, to destroy part of our har
ivebeen ved, they were prevented the ground being
properly tilled. There wete laws for pursu
it could ing the game, which prohibited weeding
and hoeingj the crops, left the young par
diflike tridges should be didurbed : using manure
that might hurt the flavor of the game. —
ry good Mowing hay before a certain time, or taking
hto get away the dubblt, led we Ihculd hurt the
you will covey.
V. Well thank God, we know nothing
d would of all that. (
F. The feudal law continued in full vig
bomany, or, quite to the time of the revolution : if,
we had time I could give yoli such a hiflory
ts ! Oh, of the opp/eflion of the lords of the feign- 1
fb;,es are iories within my own little neighborhood, I
they are and enumerate such a£ls of tyranny, a3
would make y»ur heart bleed t-o hear them,
may be V. Much obliged to ycu Monsieur Fran-'
u are so cois : but I don't like to have my heart
,ng With bleed. I feel a little too much of that at
what you have said already. —Under such
e Bajlih } I do not wonder you were defir
remonie, «us of a revolution. I only wilh you had
dungeon obtained it with less blood and cruelly, and
" fettled your government a little bettey. But
■as to try how are you going on ? ...
ir Habeas F. Wc are riot much afraid of foreign en
falfe im- emies ! nor have we any thing to apprehend
be very except anarchy, ccnfufmn and famine.
V. Three companions bad enough.
• bafrile, F. No, the two'fird we are used to ; but
not mind the lad is rather an unplenfant vihtor. It is
■re twen- notbecaufetliecou!itiyhas!oditsfeitil.ty;but
;ould r.ot t when every one is to be either ft soldier or z
statesman, nor.e are left fc> till the'grout*! Thii
or. get in the liarvert- . nI P'
V. That's a bad b'-.tfincT*, and not to be ahoi
cured by all your fine Speeches : fcr you wen
knriw thewe is no poeaciii to-the (lomach, and
as :t has no ears. _ c
F. To be fuvc llie manufacturers, traibf. dea
men and Wmei-s, have been dreadful fuffer- tior
; ers., and that unfit be at such a I
time. But then the glow'ous equality• of otn<
our nation ! that's the thing. 1 hink mr„ viol
Federal what it is to have twwrty-ifottr mil- -.wit
lioss of people and all "exaSlyiquSl.. dov
V. But how will you keep them exr.Sty wif
equal r> mult riot industry and cecdr.omy al- moi
ways acquire wealth J and ought not a fa- the
ther ttysLV<r a rigb.r<-«f _to his chil- ate
dren what lie has.eaniisdihy hi* industry ? tiot
F. We sieihedy however for that; wai
a remedy wbit'H will brirfg all French citi- was
zim to gdveril in their turns,- sooner or la- foti
ter, and for a flioVter ot longci- period. hot
V. What can that He ? wit
F. Equality, my friend cannot be pre- 'toi
served hut by cutting down all that rife a- set
hove others—Those to whom France owed fee
its liberty, were great men, and had great
merit : but their exiitenee was not to be
put into competition with their country, %rm
or with our fyllem of equality. They hve
therefore all been either massacred or lanijh
cd.
V. I am very sorry for it. H<
F. It could not be helped —There is no |
maintaining a complete system of equality
without it. Some of their fueceflors have
undergone, and others are now undergoing, be
the fame fate; and the last set who have ag
iu(l come into poweV, mult soon, in the if
fame manner nA: room f<Jr another crop : foi
and so we lliall all live free, and die in our a 1
turns. an
V. A very enviable situation indeed.— |
But what is all this to Americans whose gr
birth right is Liberty ?—'The abuses that
p you complain ®f do not cxift in America ; co
, and our free constitution is juflly admired re,
; by>eveiy true hearted American. th
r F. A constitution ! I laugh at your con- ,n
t ftitutwn. Whit i willyou pretend to com- to
pare America,with France in that refpe£t ? ce
s V. Read your own dreadful accounts of a£
. the torrents of blood which have stained the th
i French revolution ; and"then turn to the d<
; American history and fee our federal gov- m
r ermrient formed without one drop of blood,
without interruption to the ordinary course *'J
i- of justice, and without violation eveu of the 1"
) form 3of civil harmony. 11
e F. But mr. Federal conftder the natural
rights of map.
V When we enter into society, we ex
i- change our natural rights for civil rights. t<
0 The firft are the rights of a savage to prey *
upon the weak and helpless ; the latter are 11
ir the rights of society, for our get
d neralhappinefs andmutual afiillanceand pro
t- teftion. '
1- F. But why not have both ?
t- V. Because they are incompatible. Tour t
; Equality leads to nothing but confufion, c
tt plunder and massacres : the result of which v
unless your wild notions of liberty are cur- c
:e ed, will be a relapse iato slavery, as the lef- 1
a fer evil.
,d F. Ah ! Sir dou't be seduced by your 1
iy present peace and prosperity ; why will you 1
persuade yourfelf that you arc free and hap- t
ie py, or trust to appearances, however favor- '
1 able. '
V. Why now to re&fou about it Monsieur
g- Francois ; would you seriously infill on my 1
ra taking physic because you have been tick ? j
or because you have the French disorder is it '
:fs necessary that / Ihould undergo a Saliva- 1
tion ? '
F. It might b# very good for you by way j
in of prevention. 1
C 9 V. And then perhaps my history might <
ve be the fame as the man's who was well ;
11. took physic to be better ; —and died.
ur F. Ah my good friend, be allured that '
,n- the French nation interests herfelf in your
ly following her in this as in other fafiiions, and
*e that (lie earnestly -wilhes that America was
ut at this moment cxaßly in the fame Jituation as
ild France.
He V. In truth I believe (he does ; and so do
to all the natural enemies of America. Envy
ive Monsieur Francois envy will be busy. What!
>m when wc enjoy -all the trade and commerce
er- of- the world via the full tide of fuecefa ;
« our liberties fecjired, otfr maiiufafturers em
his ployed ; our resources encreafing ; (hall we
nid remove the blefiings of peace, order, liberty
and national prosperity (such as neither the
annals of history, rftir the circuit of the
ofe globe can equal) for what i for ar.ar
,ar- chy, confufion and wretthednefs. God sor
ing bid ! Adieu
■fu- '
ng From the Fjgle, printed at Hanover, New
iar . Htimpfhire.
ure Hearing much of an extraordinary cir
. cumftance which took place on Moofe-moun
ing tain, in this town, during the late viclent
the rains, my curiosity was invited to make.a
visit to that mountain, on the ealt-fide of
ing which a rupture has taken place.
The elevation of the mountain forms an
vig- angle of 45 deg. consequently it is very
: if steep in this place.
ory About forty rods above the foot of the
[gn- mountain, the eruption began. Here the
wd, foil, loot: stones and ruWbilh appeared to be
as about three feet deep, lying upon a fohd j
em. rock which composes the mountain. The
ran-' depth .of. foil eucrrafes as you descend the
cart mountain until it becomes ij feet deep at
it at the bottom, d The earth, loose stones and
such trees, begiW'tti the mountain about
efir- 40 rods from'itli base. foimiug a channel of
had about fix rods wiile «it its beginning, and
and inereafing to about twelve, fvveeping ever/
But thing to the bottom, tearing up trees and
rocks of an enormous size, the direction was
1 tn- immediately down the mountain, until the
lend heavy rubbufh formed a little mountain 01
itfelf at the bottom: the light rubbilh, such
as trees, small rocks, &c. took another di
but rediion, forming an angle of 30 deg. with
It is its original direction, and about 19 rods.
;but farther; and 200 trees were tumbled toge
or ether In the wildest disorder you can imagine.
This forming another obffrudron to the e-j
mption, it took ifs Jirlt Jih'ftion and ran .
ahout 15 rods farther, and even here (lones
were carried, mcafuring .12 feet in length,
and three feet on each fide. From the
Circurnflance, you may form some faint i
dea of the amazing force,* which the erup-*
: tionhad here. , ,
From the cause of this phen
omenon, is ealily investigated. During the
violent rains, the mountain because full of
water, and nfit only the water which ran
down on, the top of the fol'id rock, but like
wise the whole body., with which the
■ mountain was impregnated, bursting thro'
the crannies and apertures of the solid rock,
a torrent was formed, which spread devia
tion before| it. —The waiter to appearance"
was 12 feet higher than where the rubtiifh
was thrown up, and even after you caime
some distance into the level land, frota.ibe
bottom of the mountain,the trees arebrmfed
with stones, abo-ve the ground: One
(lone I mealured 21 feet in length and 3
feet on each fide, was carried and hinded tg
feet above the natural furface of the ground.
Hanover, Oft. 10, 179 J.
S. B. *
CONGR E S S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
\
WEDNSSDAY, DECEMBER 20.
Mr. Macon was persuaded thst it would
be of advantage to the revenue, as well as
agreeable to citizens int'ie habit of distilling,
if persons were allowed to take out liccnfes
for a single week. He therefore propofet
• a resolution diredling the committeeof way!
and mean to report on the expeiiency o!
, such a measure, by bill or OtherwiCe. A
: greed.
The house again resolved itfelf into :
; committee of'the whole, on the bill for th<
[ relief of North and Vefey of Charleston, anc
the petition having been read, the amend
tnent propofeJ yederday by Mr. Cbit,
. to leave it to the colle&or of the Port to at
? certain the quantity of fugardeflroyed, wa
f agreed to 48 to 12 ; the committee rose
» I the house concurred, and the hill was 6r
I dered to be engrofied for a third reading to
. I morrow.
, I Mr. D. Foster reported a bill for the re
e I lief of the representatives 01 captain Georg
e Hurlbut, which was twice read and con
I mitted for to-morrow.
J I Mr. Harper moved a resolution to tt
Ifollowiug effeft :
" Resolved, that a committee be appoii
i. I ted to enquire whether any, and, if an]
y what amendments are necelfary to be ma<
e in the aft relative to invalid pensioners, ar
I to report by bill orotherwife."
Mr. H. said, it mult be recolledted th
I frequent application had been made to th
I house by persons who had been wounded
ir the war, for a pension, who would have bei
t) duly entitled to it, and to whom the hou
h wished to have granted it, had not tht
r . claims been barred by the law of 28th Fe
f- 179 J. with which the petitioners were ge
I erally unacquainted. Some of these caf
ir had appeared to be so hard, that in one
iu I two inttances the house had been indue
to difperife with the law. He tho't, ther
r . I fore, it was proper the law fliould be reco
j fidered.
tr Mr. J. Parker seconded the
,y knew of several instances where persons we
> justly entitled to pensions, who had ntv
it heard of the aft of 1795 until their claii
a- were rejefted, whillt others, jx-rhapi 1<
I deserving, were is pofleflion of peuGo
,y He hoped they fiould not longer deny t
I justice which was due to the veteran wot
ht I ded soldier. *
I Mr. Macon believed that as all fubje
I of this kind were constantly referred to t
at I committee of claims, they were of cou
ur I betterwequainted with the business thar
nd ny other committee would be likely to b
as j he therefore moved to have thii refoluti
as I referred to that committee.
I This motion was supported by Mess. C
do and Nicholas,andoppofed byMeff.S. Smi
vy I Parker. Harper, Brookes and Swanwj
!t! It was, however, finally carried, there
•ce I '"g 5 1 v otes in favor of it.
s; J Mr. Nicholas called for the order of
[ day on the bill suspending the fecondfeft
we of the aft regulating foreign coins ; wh
r ty motion being agreed to, the house went i
[he j a committee of the whole on the fubjei
:he when
ar - Mr. Sitgreaves wished to propose ar
or- mendment to the bill, so as to make it c
formable to the report of the Seleft C<
mittee ; btit, as he believed it would be
iu I ficult to incorporate such an amendment
Ito the bill, without re-committing it,
>ir- I (hould mov* for the committee to rife, v
un- a view of afterwards moving a re-commi
ent of the bill. He would uot recur to the
«.a guments used on a former occasion in f
of port of his motion. He wilhed to give
j Foreign coin in question a partial currei
an which should give it a natural current
er y wards the mint. A number ofcalculat
had been made on this fubjeft, when
the merly under difcufiion, drrovn from an
the report from the Mint, which were very
Ibe j applicable to the present state of that e;
<lid lifhment. By the report of 1796, it
rhe j peared that a greater proportion of S
the than of Gold Coin had been iffved; bu
> at j this report, the Gold coiu was nearly
ami j bled since that time. It appeared, W
i () „t the report of 1796, that the proportio
;1 of cbih< depotited, Ctthipared with IngAts
and other Bullion was vei* small ; whereas
rery the present report, it would appear
and three-fourths of the whole amount of th
was polits in Colii, had been made in coin,
the two-thirds of the silver. This report v»
n of also (hew that the gentleman from Mar)
such (Mr. S. Smith) was not correft in hi
r di- mark, when he said, no bank in the U
with States would part with their foreign
rods for the purpose of re-coining, as not
op-e- three-fourths of the Gold uepofited had
riae. u coin, but it was almost exclusively
the back of the United States: 2 greatpro
portion of the silver coin deposited had also
come from the banks; and the direftorin
formed rhem that, in thebanks of New York *
and th;B city, there were thevalue of 300,000
dollars in crowns, ready to be sent into the
Mint. These ftt'ieme'nts furniflied great
reason for doutrting the jiifliiefs of the in
ferences drawn by gAitlemen in the former
debate, and gave additional weight to all
the arguments in support of the report'of the
feleft committee. It appeared by the re
port's', that there had been issued from the
Mint of the United States, coins to the va
lue of 774,000 dollars. He had never seen
any estimate of the whole amount of the cir
culating medium which vfrould be neceffajy
in this Country for all its commnrcial con
cerns, nor did he know upon what data fucli
an'ellimafe ought to be made: but when
they saw the amount of the coin issued, and
j reeoMefted the immeofe quantity of Spanish
1 dollars in circulation, as we.l IU bank paper
bottomed upon aftual specie in the coffers
of the Banks, there could be little doubt
that there was a fufficient quantity of circu
lating medium for alf the purposes of com
mercir, though the aft of 1793 were now to
ga fully into operation, without even the:
partial fnfpenfion recommended by the feleft .
committee. The only evil which would.re
sult, would be, the loss which might be At
tained by the holders of this species of coitrj
but even if the law were suspended for two v
years, as proposed, the fame evil would in a
1 great degree, then recur. Gentlemengreat
s ly miscalculated, he said, when they fu'p*
, posed, that, in the mean time, the foreign,
s coin would, by degrees be brought into the
] Mint. Indeed they fay, it cinnot be spar
s ed from distant parts of the country ; a*id if
f so, it cannot be expefted to come into the
. Mint, without a legitimate force to bring it
thtre. A partial fufpenlion would produce
a this effeftj and whilst this coin was received'
c ed by the colleftors, as usual, it could not
J diminish greatly in its value. Indeed, he
[. was of opinion that it would be bed to keep
, the law as it flood, and leave any regulation
which might be necefiary, to the Executive
lS of the United States, who had already or
dered it to be received in the way proposed
r _ by the feleft committee, and who-would be
j. the best judge of the regulation from time
to time necefiary.—With refpeft to the fa
reign gold coin, as the law prohibiting that
r e as a tender, did not take place far fame
months, the holders of it might get it out
of their hands, before its value was dimin
ie' ifhed ; aud as to filvar, he believed the inju
ry was already done. If the aft of 1793*
u . were therefore, suspended, it would give
y ( the crowns a new value, and, at the end of
de two years, the fame objeftion would be again
rid urged, and the Mint, in the mean timewouSi
be without support. He thought it was
at proper, on this occasion, that those who,
at wished to fu pend the law, should come out
in with refpeft to the Mint. Hi thought it
en bed to go to the whole fubjeft now, arid let
ife the aft of 1793 stand, or fall with the Mint.
»; r He moved that the committee rife far the
b. purpose he had mentioned.
•n- Mr. S. Smith was not ranch lnrprifed at
r es what had fallen from the gentleman from
or Pennsylvania, as he was desirous if car
ed r y ln g bis point. It would be a -very
re - convenient thing, at this time, far the
)n - ' city of Philadelphia to get as much of the
money of the United States as
r l e pofiible into it. It would do away tha*
: re scarcity of money so heavily conftplained of.
f er But he did not think the gentleman had
m s fucceded in his atttnept to correft the ftate
ttfs ment formerly made by him. He did not
ns . fay that the banks of this city might not
the fend cain to the mint, but that no bank at
un- a distance ; for instance, at New-York or
Baltimore would do it, as they always flood
•fts in need of their coin far the supply of thtir
the customers. And he was warranted in this
irfe opinion by the report before them, w not a
la _ single bank out of Philadelphia had depafit
)e ; ed a {hilling in the mint. And what, he
ion alked, had the banks in Philadelphia done >
He lwd merely doubted whether they would
Joit be able to spare their coin to fend to the
ith, mint. This was a different thing from
ck. banks ia general. They had always from
be- ioa to 300,000 dollars of government de
pcJits, ready far the exigencies of govern
tbe ment ; and he thought it judicious in the
;ion Secretary of the Treasury always to have
iich such a sum of money at command ; but they
nto might surely spare a part of this money to
& • be recoined. With refpeft to the silver,
when they found the French crowns called
a out of circulation, they deposited in
:on- the mint, because they might as well be in
om- the mint as to lie dead in their vaults. Not
dif. one of the other banks had deposited one
in- (hilling in gold ; but the banks of North
he America and Pennsylvania had feut in fame
vith silver ; because it was as well there as in
ittal their coffers. But what has been the con
e ar- sequence of this fluppage of foreign coin ?
sup- It has brought French crowns from all
: the parts of the Union. The gentleman had
ncy, said that the Executive had given orders
to- for French crowns to be received by our
ions colleftors at 1»Q cents ; but how, ho alked,
far- were they to be gut to Philadelphia ? Were
I old they to be transported at' the public ex
in- pence ? If they were, and he knew of no o
itab- ther way, ii would not amount to a trifling
ap- sum. But would it not be doing an eiien
iilver tial injury to the citizens to take away from
it by thera their cash, without Tending any other
don- in its place ? It certainly would. If it Were
' w by to be mailed in, new coin ftionld be pseviotu-
II of ly issued to take its place. If what he ad
and vanced b° r e hard »p on the mint cf the Ü
by nited.States, he could not help it—hetho't
tli3t the mint founded, in felly. This was not
i»de- i the opinion of the gentleman from Penn
and fylvaniait might be the interefl of his
roiild. slate to support the mint, but he did not
pland think it was the intereltof the IJflion. Mr.
is re- S. conceived another eonfequence, if the law
nifed refpefting gold coin was not suspended.
eoin Merchants were as defirows of exporting
only gold coin as silver, and there was as great a
been difficulty in procuring it when it was want-,
from ed ; but if its circulation were to be stop-
Iped instead of'..mliiijj, ii lite b>; . •
voy'.d pu:h it evtjry bjOiTy, and M
woultl.be modly exported. And hovv, he
aGtfd, were it to be got back ? Nobody had
said any tiling on this fubje£l but the gen
tleman from Msffachufetts (Mr. Stvvall),
He said that doubloons, or four pi Hole piec
es, were imported at n loss of |ths of a dol
lar, and that these woflld continue to be im
ported. He did not know but finall fifh
inj* vefFclt; might be in the habit of thus
dealing ; but merchants in any extensive bu
siness made remittances to London, where
doubloons .were at their full value, and drew
bills upon Londpn ; or sent doubloons to
the French Well-Indies, where they were
worth the full sixteen dollars, and got arti
cles in return which afforded a good profit.
They were in the habit of importing gold
from Lisbon, when the exchange was against
them, but there was a profit upon this gold
jof fix grains upon a half-joe. Thii was oik
-of the inducements ; but it could no longer
be an inducement, if they were to be nn
longer payable. Gold therefore would
be no longer imported. If the mint were
# tobefupported,the plan of making an appro
priation for the purchase of bullion was the
only one which was at all feafibls. He
ihou'.d of course be against the committee's
riling.
Mr. Sitgreaves wiflied to set the gentle
man lad up right as to matter of fa ft. He
had said no deposits had been made from a
distance ; but if he attended to the report
of the direftor, he would find, that he ex
pected about 300,000 dollarsfrotn the banks
cf this city and New-York, and he was in
formed that 250.000 of them were to come
frrim New-York, as soon as the mint was
ready to receive them, and a guard was
provided.
Mr. S. Smith said he supposed fjiefe were
crowns whoft circulation was (lopped.
Mr. Swanwick observed, that it some
times happened that legi/latures im
proper laws; when they did so, they gene
rally to correift themselves. What
was the fa& refpe&ing the lqw in cpieftinu :
A law had been'palled declaring that fr?3ch
crowns ftlould not be a lawful tender after a
certain period ; that period was pasTed ; but
the Secretary of the Treafnry, in contradic
tion to it, had dire&ed the officers of the
cuftotns to receive them as usual. Waa not
this an acknowledgement that the law was
improper and inconvenient? Jtwould.be
well, he said, to take a view of the iituati
on of our commerce, with refjedl to circu
lating medium. The main objeifl in the in
flitution of tha bank of the United States
was to give a general currency to its paper,
that it might take place of coin in a great
; but they had been told by the gen
tleman from Virginia (Mr. Nicholas) that
though these notes were a lawful tender in all
payments to the United States, they were
not current in the interior of the country.
The chief circulating medium of the coon
try was, notwithstanding this, paper. Mer
chants, in paying their duties, generally
gave a check upon their banker; therefore,
though our revenue produced seven millions
a year, but a small part of that sum is paid
in calh. What, then, wan the use of fo
reign coin ? It was not wanted so much
for a circulating medium at home, as for ex
portation. Much iif it was sent to the East
Indies and to Great Britain ; and, though
Tome gentlemen h?d said a gold coin #f the
United States was so fsarce au article in the
interior of the country, that when it was
met with it was hoarded as a pocket piece,
be had been lately informed by a gentlemen
from London, that he had seen a large quan
tity of our eagles sn a goldsmith's (hop there
for the purpose of melting down, so rapid
ly, said he, does our eagles talc thc':rflight.
Foreign coin being therefore neccfiary to
pay the commercial balance due from us to
foreign countries, it would certainly be im
prudent to call ic in. Mr. S. was opposed
to the powfcr being yefled in the Executive
to regulate the business of making foreign
coin payable or not payable at his pleasure.
Ifthemint ellablifhment wereto be supported
it mud be done hefaid,out of the revenue receiv
ed. A fmallfum would do it. Butwhyforce
individuals to bring their crtiwns into the
mint ? Whqt advantage would there be in
ii ? Could any one fay this new money would
(lay at home ? they could not, and there
fore, where he could fee no advantage, he
was not for putting any class of people to
inconvenience. It were; - b«(l, he believed,
-to let the bufinefss of foreign coin remain
without.restraint. _
(Tote continued.)
THURSDAY DECEMBER 19.
Mr. T. Claiborne moved that th- report of the
committee of claims on the petition of AmyDar
dirt, lie referred to a committee of the whole.
The Speaker said, that the report having been
negatived at a former felfion, and a hill brought
in for her relief, but not decided upon, the pro
per motion would U*, to appoint a committee to
bring.in a bill.
M». Claiborne made that motion, which Mr.
v Coit moved to be r«ferred to the committee of
claims, in order that they might report the fa&»
relative to the cafe, which were not generally
known. Mr. Cbiborne objedied to this } and
Mr. Bildwip fuggetltd the propriety «f commit
ting it to the fame committee of the whole to
whom were referral the fubjeil of conGdering the
expediency sf excepting certain claims from the
operation of the Limitation A&s ; thi» course was
adopted.
The bill for the relief of North and Vefey of
Charleston, was read the third time and palled :
as was also
The bill for suspending the second f * nn of the
- a& lor iej£ulating foreign coins, and for other
parpofes.
Two and three years were piopofied for filling
the blank for the duration of the suspension ; the
latrtr mo*ed by Mr Gallatin wes carried.
Mr. D. Fo:\er, from the committee of claims,
made an unfavorable report on the petition oL
George Turner which wascor.curred in by thehoufnp
The house went into a committee of tKe whole
on the re ort of the commute of claims on the
petition of JolinCarr ; but some doubts,ariftug as
to certain fa«Sb, the committee rofs and the report
was recommitted.
The Speak -r informed the houfc he Ivd received
a communication from the treafui y department, in
dofitlg the accounts of the tnalurei for she
!>r j of SiptcaiW, which was
ordered to he printed,
' rvTr. Alien iiroyirn-j I a r:ioi'jtl >n>to the foll.-:.-w
---irij c;T.«5t, wiiieh vv.i- 1 . il ■ :
' i " tiefolved, that a eom*n : tt?.e be apo'nntc I to
enquire whether any, arid if any, whit alteration'
are neceuary to be niaie in the ail eilaMifijingthe
judiciary department, and tine thiyrepart by i»iil
or other wife."
Mr. Coit Called for the or.! -r of the .fay, on the
till for the relief of capt Hurlrut ; which being
acceded to, the h'oute w.:nt into a Committee of
th> who-le on the 'fnbjtS', anil rcpor'ed thc bill
without amendment, i'hl hcuf: took i: up, wiien
j Mr. Nicholas hoped thc.bU'.vbutd not be en
gro/Ted, but recomm it.dto af.'leS committf, in
order that a bill might" <ie reported on the fubjeS.
generally, as if relief were to be afforded at all
he hoped it would not b« confined toone cals.
Mr. William-; seconded the moti-n.
Mr. Coit fai<l, as there wa< no probability tjiat
tbe r e conld be many cases of this kind, he fa\v no
reafoo for palling a • eiicrs l law on the
had only cf orie other ease.
Mr. Nicholas f;id, that thouph gentlemen might
amongst tbemfclves' have cone uded that the
revolutionary war ended i-i Ja-iajry yet hd
believe ! the rapref nta-ive.s of peifons who served
during all th? aft'.ial war tdl the year 17S I, and ii
ed before 1783, woa'.d fujiyofc f bey had ground
f-r making except th- came to
1 some exprefi declaration en the fu!tje&. For his
part, he saw norifference betwixt the cafe of a
I man who died at one time or the other, he thought
j th« wnr continued, so long as the enemy's armies
remained in the country,
j Mr. 3rooke was in favor of the the motion ;
; for though these might k e but Vw instances of thfs
| kind, he wi<V?d them all to be put upon tha fame
Noting. Tha enemy evacuated New-York, iie
said, on the 25th of November—he waaprefentat
the time; hut the :rttiy had beea-genjra'ly dif
■ charged on the J of "Nownther. Ke fuppofeil a
vari.-ry of eonC.'err.'iols h.d induced congress to'
; drtermine tile *.var as closed at the time they had
i fixed.
| Mr. Gordon w.s in favor of the motion. The
' gentleman f.omConneiSicut had founded the claim
! of capt. Harlbut. oa his contra<3. an ! bad there-
IforHrad ri;c nrfe to fixing the period ot the ter.
mina'ion of the war at a different time Urntbat
] &x-d by congr f«. When They were about to de
clare the determination 0! a former congref. wrong,'
he thought they should do it rxpref-ly. arid not by
implication.; and be rrtified thegeiitl man from
Connc Slcut was not a f r.iid cf being railed upon
to d« jnftice in other cases, which stood upon the
ground with the prefcrt.
Mr. A.Ffiflfr said, this cor.flruflinn of the
termin of the war wonhl elti"brtt» nmra
tifes tHan «'.i< inn -ined ; be frppoied it Would
extend fci'foltllers jr well as cfScers, whn died
after that period.
Mr. N's mntion was ptit-and carried.
Mr. VntDvin moved to amend the motion, by
including soldiers who had died after the signing
the preliminary articles of peace, as entitled to
the eratuity of eight dollars, which was allowed
to those who served to the close of the war.—
Agreed.
Mr. Gallat'n presented a petition from Gaz
zam, Tjylor and Jones, of this city, praying for
the allowance of a debenture for poods which
they had loaded on board a vefiel for St. Tho
mas's, in December last, which, after it set fail,
was found to be leaky, and flopped at Reedy-
Island to repair ; hut the freft setting in, the
goods were afterwards laden «n board another
veflel, and exported to St. Croix : certificates
of the landing wherajf were delivered to the
collector of this port. Referred to the commit
tee of commerce and manufaflures-
Mr. Coit moved for the order of the day on
the report of the committee of commerce and
manufaflures on the petition of Pierre Joseph
Fiamend irt behalf of Louis le Guen ; which be
ing agreed to, the house resolved itfelf into a
committee of the whole on the fubjeift.
The petitioner states that on the 16th of Sep
tember, 1795, JVrl/iam Macarty, esq. thecon
ful of the United States, at the IJle of France
there Jhipped on board the brigantine Mary,
captain Rolertfon of Philadelphia, twelve
caflts of indigo cohligned to George Latimer,
cfq. of Philadelphia, owner ef the said brigan
tine who was desired to deliver the fame to the
bearer of the shipper's . orders—that the said
indigo arrived herein January 1796 ; was
duly entered at the Cuflom-houfc. and the duties
paid by George Latimer, efty -who flored the
fame, waiting for orders to whom to deliver
the fame < . and that these orders were de
layed by accidents of the sea, from arriving
till within the lufl fortnight, when Louis Le
Guen received the fame, and applied for the
indigo It Mr. Latimer, who delivered the
feime, and confirmed on oath all the f*3s above
Jlated, as far as rebate to him -but by the
delay tf the arrival of the letters of advice and
bills of lading, the time had elapsed in which the
indigo might be exported and be entitled to
drawback—wherefore the petitioner prays for
an extention of time to export the said indigo,
with the usual allowance of drawback on 'ex
portation. The committee of commerce and
munufaclures were of opinion that as the loss of
time artfe only by the dijlance of the Isle of
France, and accidents to letters, and not by
any fault in the petitioner, and as there was
no probability of any precedent of this kind,
frequently oceuring, they thought it but jus) and
reasonable, the prayer of the petitioner should
be granted ; aud therefore recommend the house
to come to the following resolution
" Resolped,— That a committee be appoin
ted to bring in a bill in pursuance of the prayer
of the petitioner."
Mr. Swanwick moved that the committee
concur with the report.
This motiou called forth a confidenble de
bate. It was opposed by MefTrs. Coit, Gallatin,
J. Williams, Allen, Gordon, and Edmond, 011
the ground of its proving a dangerous prece
dent, as many cases might occur that would in
■ dace merchants to keep their gondii pad the
twelve months allowed by law, bttore they ex
posed them ; that no accident had occurred in
the business; that Mr. Le Guen. at the time of
(hipping the goods, knew the risk he woUM run
of loling the drawback ; tkat he chose betwixt
two evils, and rather thsa ri(k the lending ad
vice in the fjme veflel w : ti hjs goo Is (which
would have proved them to be French property)
he chose the lefler evil of rilkine tfie loss of the
drawback ; that if persons chose to run these
rilks, tHe government had nothing to do with it,
ants rt ought to have no operation upon our laws;
but if fuhjefb of the belligerent p-'\ve.-s chose te
ptib.their property on hoard our vcflels under the
slmfrican Mantle, tfiev ought n:>t to expe<sl the
additional advantage of a suspension of our laws
in their tavor. Mr. Allen, in particular, caA a
severe censure upon our consul at the J(le of
France for having connived at this decs ption,and
that to grant the prayer of the petition, would
be a fcandaloits -partiality in favor of oue of the
belligerent powtrs.
7he niotion was supported by Mtflrs. Swan
wick, Livingfton, S. Smith, J Parker, Pinclc
ney and Brookes, rn the ground that tbere had
Veen net omission on the part of Mr. le Guen ;
that it had been owing to the ascidciits of the
Ted, that advic. W-u in due tim: ;
that it wjs nev r Intend* I tfc« (foods no; i;on
iui.u-ctin this con itry (hoti'dpay 'he doty; that
.i* England, wbnfe praiiice* in this refoefl,
have copied, a biUSnels of this kind would have
been resided by rheir board of trade, without
bringing the matter beforc-thf legislature; that
it would ha e been <* mark of t'nijy to
have ferit any papers by theveffc! whleh convey
ed (he property, which wu'd have proved it
ta have been French, kno vinpvas'thppirry did,
that French property 011 b-iarii our v (T.-is was
liable to be taken by the Eajriiili ; that' so far
from there being 1 any morn! iurpitudr in thus
carrying t-h? property of p«rf im twijefls of any
of the be'Jijfr.ent powers,, i: wjs a v ry profita
ble branch of our trade, and that H;i- rn-iful at
the ia ff< of Frarfee was pcrfccVv jjjft fijble in
■ cnnficjnin- toe re he had done.
Mr. Fi'ichney v.'ss of a different op'nion as
.to the eßjiitU'S) of ('O'l.fAt; he tlioujiit it de
lidedly -vrong that, he ftrtttlJ have any thing to
do in thabuftoefn,'tHoug)i*;h«i jttltifietl «ur thus
carrying the jirop-rty «f Ihe ful<jefv» of the bel
ligerent powers j th it no American ve(Tel should
receive property 011 board tp any bel
ligerent power, which flv~>uld br en'.ered asfuch;
that in allowing the prayer of (he oetition,' go
vernment would ftiew no more p.irthlitv 10 any
belligerent power, than was (hewn dai'y in al
lowing (foreigners a drawback on goods ex
ported ; and that to deny the pnyer of the pe
tition would be such a derclii!ion of jnfliceis
it was tended that hoid'e would never eonfent to.
Thr committee rpfe without tiiing a vote on
the fubjed, and had leave to fit 3<;ain.
Latejl Foreign Intelligence.
LONDON, Oftober t6.
At the clnfe of the Comedy on Saturday
evening the curtain rofc again immediately,
and exhibited, iu honor of admiral Duncan's
vi&ory, the fpe&ade of .a sea fight, accom
pinied bv the songs of " Britannia,"
and " God save the King,*' in full chorus
and followed by a fire work. The songs of
course were encored.
The audience of-the evening was one of
the most nciff, we have fct with for forte
time past. The whole neighbourhood of
the Theatre was illuminated, as indeed was
the greater part -of the town,*veft of the ci
ty; «' uik' i ; n j
It is with great & we
understand, his moft graciously
exprefTed his intention to honor admiral
Duncan and his fleet with a visit. This eir
cumdance, we conceive, will be of the ut
most national utility. It will present to
Europe the proud fpeflacle of a Britifli
monarch twice, in the fame war, visiting in
person a vidtorious fleet j and we apprehend
it will have the mod beneficial eonfequences
with refpeft to otlr domestic feelings, and
the perfedt re-union of British seamen to the
warm wishes of their country.
It is remarkable, that the three most
brilliant naval viftories this war hava been
gained, the one by Lord Howe, an English
man; the other by Lord St. Vincent, an
Irishman; and the third by admiral Duncan
a Scotchman. And what still makes it more
remarkable is, that these gallant officers
have each beaten the enemy to which, rela
tively, their nations are nearest.—England
is nearer France nor either Scotland or
Ireland, Ireland is nearer Spain than either
England or Scotland ; and Holland is near
.er Scotland than any other of our enemies.
Odtober' 17.
A neutral ftirpon Sunday morning Hnder
• took the kind office of conveying the abov,e
important intelligence to Calais. By this
time it has reached the Direftorial Palace!
The illumination of last night was gener
al, and equally brilliant with that displayed
in honor of lord Hawe's viSoty of the firft
of June. Most of the public, and private
buildings, exhibited fanciful devices in col
loured lamps, mottos, ice. The admiralty
in the Weft, and in the manlion house in
the city, were fplended in the extreme.
Admiral Duncan, who is now 63 years
of age, is nearly idatcd to lady Mary Dun
can. He is fix feet three inches high, his
fortune is about io,oool. half of which he
got as prize money at the Havannah, the
war before last. We believe he is married
to a relation of Mr. Secretary Dundas, by
whom he has three or four children.
Admiral de Winter was born in Demara
ra, when very young he served in the Dutch
"navy, but changed (hortly to their army,
which he afterwards quitted for the Rnffian
service, where he remained until 1786 or
1787, during the troubles fit Holland,
where he returned and sided against the O
range party, on whose success he went to
the French, with whom and his old friends
he returned when they conquered Holland.
Oftober 18.
Advice was yesterday received of the loss
of the Dutch (hip the Delft, of 56 guns, in
the Downs : very few of the hand*, it is
said, were saved.
Admiral Duncan states, in his second let
ter, that the Erdymion bad, in the course
of the night, fallen in with a Dutch (hip of
the line.off the Texel, and had engaged her,
but that he had not heard the particulars.
The engagement took place in the night;
and it is said, that owing»to the heavy fire
of the enemy, the Endymion was obliged
to delift the contest.
Admiral Duncan's flag, with three other
(hips was seen from Harwich on their way
to the Nore on Monday.
" This moment" fays a letter from Yar
mouth, received yederdayj " I have retur
ned on fhorc from on" bftard the Hercules,
of 66 guns, whose captain lieswith his hand
(hot oft above his wri#, and woundtri in the
body; her mizen mad is £one, and (he is
torn to pieces. The frciiiid is the. Alhmaar
54 guns. Her, main trail went ia the
aft ion ; her mizen mtift was so wounded
that they were forced to cut it away after
we got possession of her ; and her fotemaft
went over in a gale of wind yesterday ; (he
is (hot to pieces, and was brought in by the
Monmouth with extreme difficulty—The
Monmouth has alio \aken a 64. A rascal
011 board the Alkmaar yesterday attempted
to blow her up, and had got one of the locks
off the magazine.
The Hercules was on fire in the a£tion,
and the after part of hef is very much dam
aged; the fire broke out afiefh after wc
had taken poliyV.on.
" Admirals Duncan and Onflow brfeaveJ
nobly ; the former had four on him at cue
time ; the latter three.
" A brig, armed .with iS,pounders, .had
the audacity to get under admiral Onflow's
stern ; he got fix guns to hear upon her, and
funk htr with every plan on board." 1
The circuniftanccs which gave the fir ft.
turn to this glorious victory, which will e
vcr be d'fh'nguifhed in the annals of Great-
Britain, arose from the Jupiter of 74 gun's,
with two admirals on board, being difmaft
fd, and alrrcft (battered to pieces, before
(he could bring a gun to bear on the Mon
arch of 74 guns, which raked her. This
was the iirft (hip that ft ruck. Admiral De
Winter's (hip did not frire much better from
the fire of the Venerable. Both (hips were
so unprepared for action at the moment,
that they could scarcely bring a gun to bear
until they had received tbt?fire of our {hips
repeatedly.
The obstinate bravery of the Dutch in
the battle was so grl-at, that when admiral
Winter surrendered, he was the only per
son on the quarter deck of the Vryheid,
and he is said to have been so for half an
hour ; every other officer having been killed
or Wounded—Having performed his duty
in the most gallant manner, he appears, since
his capture to be in very good fpiritsj and
has paSed great part of his time in admiral
Duncan'3 cabin.
1 • The ciraumftance of two admirals be
ing found on board the Vice-Admiral's ship
is owing to-the senior, who is infirm, having
wished to retire, which the Dutch govern
ment oppoftd, on account of his populari
ty with the seamen. A junior admiral was,
therefore, appointed to affid him in the
duties of his office.
When admiral Duncan made the signal to
break the enemy's line, the Dutch admi
ral, immediately perceiving his purpofc,
made the signal for his fleet to close, which
was very alertly obeyed, particularly by the
Vice-admiral. It was under the stern of
his (hip that admiral Duncan passed, andlm
mediately ranged up alongside. Itwasfe
ven or eight minutes before a gun was re
turned on that fide—a proof that they were
not ready.
We have dated that the king intends to
visit the victorious fleet as soon as they shall
be joined by the (hips that still remain out.
Earl Spencer, Mr. Pitt and Mr. Dundas
set off yesterday mornfng to congratulate
admiral Duncan, and prepare the fleet for
the reception of his majesty, who will fail
frem Greenwich in the Princess Auguita
yacht, captain Riou.
All the firft lieutenants of admiral Dun
can's fleet are immediately to be promoted
to the rank of matters and commanders.
Captain Fairfax left town yesterday in
the afternoon, with dispatches containing
the pateut for creating the brave old admi
ral a Peer ot Great-Britain.
——l——————————.
By yesterday's Mail.
NEWYORK, December 20.
OUR ENVOYS AT PARIS.
The " Annales Politiques," of the nth
of Oftober, fays, " On the 7th of Ottober,
the Three American Negotiators were prcfent
ed to the Minilter for foreign affairs, They
are—Mr. Pinckney, of South Carolina,
who served with diftin&imi during the whole
of the war for American Independence—
Mr. Marshall, of the State of Virginia,
who also bore arms during the fame period,
but who has applied since the peace to the
study of law, and now occupies the situati
on of Advocate General of that state—and
Mr. Gerry, of Massachusetts, member for
that state in Congress, where he is equally
diftinguiflied by his taints and his modera
tion-. These three men, who t\.fide more
than three hundred miles from each other,
art scarcely acquainted ! The firft time they
ever met was at more than a thousand leagues
from their country, to fulfil an important
million-! This confidence of the American
government, in citizens who never were em
ployed in diplomatic affairs, for renewing
the political and commercial relations of the
United States with France, gives us reafort
to presume that the government withes ra
ther tt> rely on the fidelity and candour of
the French government, than to feck a sup
port from the intrigue or the fineffe of men
(killed in the Machiavelifm of Cabinets—
This nomination, therefore, augurs the for
tunate issue of the negociation which is a
bout to commence."
It is anxioufiy to be hoped that this E
ditof may not be mistaken in his conje&ures
refpe£ting the ifTue of the negociation—we
cpuld wi(h we had a foundation on which to
build similar expectations.
NOBLS INTENTION.
A gentleman of Rotterdam, fays our last
Lotidon paper, has invented a new Float
ing Machine, which, though small, is ca
pable of hplding four men commodioufly j
and such is its astonishing conftrufiion, as
to defy the utmost fury of the seas, or the
refiftanct: of the mod boisterous winds. It
can neither ovtrfet nor fink, and may in all
weathers and gales bedeered whatever course
those within (hall deem neceflary. The phi
lanthropic views of the inventor are to fuve
the lives of those unfortunate mariners who
incur the danger of (hipwreck. It may be
made, on the fameconftrn£tion large enough
to hold upwards of fifty persons.
GAZETTE MARINE LIS'T.
New York, December 21.
ARRIVED. JDaYS.
Brig Enterprise, Mailary, Havatfle'4s
Nanny, , do. 55
Captain Geerman, of the (loop Fanny,
from Newbern to this port, on the 19th
ult. spoke the (loop Lydia, Jones, from
Btandywine to this port, diCmaded, in a
gale on the 15th, off Crambcrry Inlet, (hurt
of water and provifiot:*, the latter of which
C.'ipt. Gterman lupj-iiicd him with, in n
lit. 37 %5, Capt. Geerman
ls ai ' ,u ' 'I'C Jkjrdit iiiis been blown
001 ft.
I* 10m tbc Log I3t o\ of tlie brig Enterprize,
i homas Mcukry, innftei", from Havjni.;:,
Dec. Blb, in Lit. 53, Jong.. 72, at night,
ipoke the schooner Sally, Ccip£..
of Philadelphia, from. Jacquemel, bound
to IMjdc'phia, out 35 days, then laying
to, with mod of her hands lick, end had
101 l all his fails, being then nearly in a fimi
la'r fituacicn, could not assist him.
Mejfrs. M'Lean &' Lang,
Having underftcod, on my arrival this
day from the rfavanna, that it. has been re»
prtd-nted during my absence, that the (hip
Andromache had been captured on herpaf
fage to Jamaica, by the French privateer
fchr. L'Efpeigle, Captain L.c Barron, or
Barry, rti conltquence of information re
ceived from me, of her detlination, See.—-
In order, therefore, to contradift so great
a falfehood, and to do away the unfavour
bale impreflion fucha report mull have made
of my charefter, I hereby declare, that un
til my arrival, I neveV knew there was such
a fliip as one abovi-mentioaed.o/courfe
tot.ihy ignorant of any particulare refpetU
ing her ; that so far from being ddirous of
rendering any service to the ft id privateer,
1 had every reason to poTcfs a "different dis
position towards her ; for they came on
board of me on the 7th of September, then
2 days out, bound to Kavaiina, and after"
overhauling all_ my papers, plundering me
of a .quantity of apples, potatoes, onions, I
calk of water, Sores, with which they load
ing their boat, and a great many fmntt arti
cles from the cabin.-—When I demanded
payment from them for the property thiu
Eaken, they threatened to put me in jror.s,
obftrving I might think myfelf v. v ;' off, in
being allowed to keep poiiciibn nf the vef.
fel. 1 hcv took from ipe ntfo, all my news
papers, from which they mult have obtain
ed the information refpe&ing the f-.id (hip
THOMAS MALLARY,
MadiA of the br'g Entcrprize, g( N. York.
Xfie
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, DECEMBER »».
" T -T-r."!"-- i,fT>TT
Married^—On Tuesday evening last,
by the Rev. Mr. AbercromLie, Washing-
TON L. FIXNEY, EeQitoMifsCHP.IiTIANA
Bickham, daughter of George Bickham,
| Esq. of this City.
There are several letters in towD from
Norfolk, which inform that Commodore
Barney is appointed Judge of the Admi
ralty Court at Cape Francois—and that A
; merican vcffels bound to British ports (such
as were before the war) with neutral proper
ty on board, are no longer condemned-
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Philadelphia, 21JI Dec. 1797.
6 per Cent. i6/9> Ir-.tcreft
1 per Ctnt. <£.
Deferred 6 per Cent: iify
BANK United States, azldividenj
North America, 50 tfo.
Insurance Co. Pennfyivania, lharj« 3 percent.
■ N. A. shares jo do.
! A Friend to Laws and Fectdom, will ap
pear to-morrow.
Cms, will be attended to.
•WJ'* w HB —m.*. < mw.v- '* ■■u
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
DECEMBER 22,
Will be prefemul a lavorite COS4EDY, culled
EVERY ONE HAS HIS FAULT.
Lord Norland, Mr. Warren —sir Robert Ram
ble, (wi'h the Epilogue) Mr. Bernard—Mr. So
lu», Mr. Morris—Mr. Harmony, Mr. ftarwood—
Captain Irwin, Mr. Cooper—Mr. Placid, Mr.
Moreton—Hammond, Mr. Warrell,juc—Porter,
Mr. Warrell—Edward, Miff Hardingc (beifigher
firlt appearance on this fiage.)
Lady Eleanor Irwin, (for that right only) Mrs.
Hardinge, (being her firft appearance on this ttage)
—Mrs. Placid, Mrs. Oldmijon—Mif«\ Spinfler,
Mrs. L'Eflrange—Mif» Woburn, Mrs. Mcrris.
To which will be added, a Comedy in l a<5U, called
THREE WEEKS AF 11R MARKIAGIi
Or, What <we mu/l all came to.
Sir Cbsrlrs Racket, Mr. Moretnn—Deugget, Mr.
Watrgn—Woodley, Mr. Fox—Servant, Mr. T.
Wsrrtll.
Lady Racket, Mrs. Hardinge—Mr® Drugget,
Mrj. C'Hftrange—Nancy; MS. L'Jsftrarge—Di
mity, Mrs. Francis.
On Saturday, Tbs Mounta>'i*zrt.- —Ofljviap, (firft
tiaw on ct.is llage) by Mr. Taylor, from the The
atre, Hollon :—with Enterta j. neats.
Oa account of Mondiy being
d;iy. will he .a performance on Tu.f.liy—
particulars in future bills.
Marshals Sales,
United States, 1
Pennsylvania Diftrid.j
BY | rtue of a Writ of venditioni expense, ifiiietl
rut 6f the Circu't Court of theUr.iccd States,
inani for tjic P.-nnfylvama cf the Miodie
Circuit, and to me dire*sled vrili be fold at public
faie at the MarihaU OiHce in Race Street No. 117.
on Saturday the 30th day of December ii;ft. at
p'clock at noon, two elegant plates
ofSHakefpearc, ouepjate of Harmopy,
one plate of prudence, do. one- pi?.te oi nicckn
one plate of beauty, and one plate of Marvcft-
do—Seized and taken in execution as the
property of '1 tHlram liatnpfylde Freeman, and
John Nichollon, trading unaer tlie firwl
cf Freeman and Company,
Andtobefo4d by
William Nichols, Marfbal.
Martha' 8 office >
December 18th 1797 ) dtf
TH ESUBt CRIB F.R,
ONE of the late &m cf ts? Co.
thinks it a duly he owes to liirr.fclf, to 4c»
c'ate, that he is no wife cojvrrned ituhe property
above adveitrfed hy the l !, nor ought he ro
he fu' je£t to the f*ii! i. a s icn, v. hich v/ill bs dilut
ed by the party whcf_- intereO it i^.
Iri/lrsini Freeman.
r-c<2iber si ' titj^thDANCING SCHOOL.
WILi.I-iM M'DOUG ALL prelVnts his
most refpu.ftful complirn utato his form
er crnpty?rj tixi the citizens in ;;enrral. and re
turrit his rr.ojt grattful thanks, tor the very
bountiful encouragemeut he has expetieneert fur
tnelc twenty-five years past. takes tbiippportts
nity of informing il.em, that his fcliool is now
open, at his
Elegant Ball Room,
in South Fourth-Str<et, between Chefnut and
VValnut-ftrects. To begin at loin 'he morning
for young ladies, and 6 in the evening for young
gentlemen.
Ilis firit Ball will be to-morrow
evening, Saturday, the 9th inft.
Uec. 8- lawtf. '
Mnficai Inflruiyent Manufactory, '
167, Arcfy-ftrect.
TO TK~E LOVERS .OF HARMONY.
HARPER,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has 1
now ready for sale, a few of h:s new invented,
and much admired ftde board Piano Fortes, with ;
PcdaU, patfiilt l'well, louopahant aud ?rilx!i hai-p j 1
flop, whith for fenfibllity of touch, brilliancy of i '
tone, simplicity an J durability of conilVu&ion, the I 1
(nperiority of which,he flatters himfelf, a single tri- : I
al will convince unprejudiced judge jhey C
arc manufactured under his immediate iofpeftion,
of the vry bt seasoned materials, he can felt 011 ! c
reafotiahle terms for Cash. Indrum.ir.ts repaired, ' c
tuii?d,*&c! ■ 0
N B. Second hand Piano ?ortes taken in ex- v
chaftge for new. j 13
itoyenoer 18. 2aw 2 mo.
'UjiiVh Smith,
No. 20, north Third street—has for sal, C
'> neat and general affortfti.nt of
Broad Cloths,Kerfeymeres,Napt t
and Drab Coatings. also,
A variety of Gentlemen*' falhiopable fancy Waift
coating, silk Hosiery, <stc.
D-cemi-er j. *eodlw
FOR SALE,
By the Subscribe-!, at hi. Store, No. 7j, Socth N
Water-ftrctt,
A generai affortmsnt of China N
Ware
. Clack aatj celoured Saltins
Do. do. Lutestrings
, Do. d« Handkerchiefs
Do. do. fewing_Silk» ' . ,
Imperial and Hvfbii Teas 0
Long and lhort Naxkeens
Quitt Silver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes rc
(!',als Ware, in cases 'y
White and brown Havanna Sugars, in boxes th
M'tUffes, ii) Jioglhead*
St. Creii Rum anJ ugar, iri do.
London particular Madeira W'itje T
slurry an.l Malaga Wines, in quarfr calks
Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chtfts til
Logwood. &c. &c. A
, «r». I—tji#cf4w JOSEPH SIMS. Pi
ImportedinthefhipMANCHESi;Eß,
Benjamin Shewill, Mailer, ce
From Bourdeaux, and Cor fate "by the fubferiber, th
No. ji Walnut | c,
Bonrdeaux Brandy *]
Irish market claret in cases f Entitled to
Medoc in do. r Dfawbackj. 1
Sauterne, do. dp. J
Tkapias N<
WHO HA F9R SALE. -r
Sherry Wine in pi'pes ana quartw casks Jf
Rota do, (Jo. SC
Pimento in bags OB
4000 bufhtls Liverpool fait. aR
AtUg. 24. tut&stf.
For Sale, by the Package, lar
For rafti, or good notes at sixty or ninety days,
viz. , ' '
Book and Jaconet Muftins plain ") wr
stripes, and Checks * | . _ , . (He
do. do. Tamhobred |> ' °[ e ln bb
dp. Lidie; hanrikercb.iet't, & | pac tagea.
gentlemen's neck do. J pul
Jaconet chintz mi-flin fpr home and the Weft {
India market, Piilticote and linen hindktrchiefs,
sot do. do printed do. do. common purple and by
chintz shawls.
The abovt goods entitled to drawback on ex
portation. Ufo a few scotch and an An
aflortment of muslin by the piece.
The wbole of the above being a consignment
from the manufa&urers in Britain. ' Q
To be seen at William Blackburn's
Office, No. 64, South Second Street. <4 r
JJovr o. lawtf.
Samuel & ivjfjers Fifhcr, ,n
ARE NOW OPENING, .
A t thtfir Warehouse, No. 47, Doclt Struct, a frefh at
aflortment of Woolen and other goods, fuitaMc Ho
the feafoh, seccivcd by the lata arrival! from Enr
land. * 1
Tlry have also fir Sale, ®f |
Lisbon Uni
TenerifTc [. . ~, , , ~ P»rt
Sherry, and ( In P'P". h hdi. and quarter calks- gan ;
Port Wines, 3- refp
Aflorted <pit en's ware in crates, Sac. M°'
10th mo- jjd. dlwjtwjv, j c<^
T0 Gentlemen who intend J "pending m ;u
the Winter in the City. that
ROOMS to LET, ™
WITH or without Board—at No. 114, corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The fifuation w ;|]'
agreeable—and. vicinity has been free from the late cA ,,
contagion. Ofl. 27.—dtf
jSamuel Pleafants y Sons,
No. 74,' South Sccond-Jlrcet,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS, A
which they are now opening for sale, on
• rcafonable terms. OA 17. —4W ftree
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladirf3. s Ol
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpefl, returns her fincitre ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
file has receivgd during four years refideucc in Q
Philadelphia; and assures her friends and the
public, l'» far from intending to her
ichool, (he has marie a superior arrangement for °
the more convenient accommodation of her * eet
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite P re "
education is particularly attended to by Mrs. num
Groombfidge and' masters exCeJiin<; in their _
refjpeilive proWTions. 1
Corner of Sprues and Eleventh Streets. Wjtl
Junp sth, 1797- jjmftf Wat
Tht situation is perfeilly healthy ; andmade ftree
more aereeablcby an extenfivc garden and lot ty-fo
of ground adjoining the hmife. ware
~ Jitfl Fubli/hsdy f ° u v lh
And to bo ha 1 of M-ffrs Dofcfon, Campltcll.Rice,-
Caty, and the other j.ricrp?.! BookCcller* in i
city,price rjjie dollar, .twinty-five cetrt*,i:9 boards, t,,m
New' Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America. Jior.cs
By BtNjAWiN SMITH BARTQN, m. ». .prwt
June 10. -f"
English Grammar,
' ,l< T!:c fccafld edition, tvilh improvements,
'' /V DAPTED to the di£crcnt c'allcs of learhcri;
rc " w itli an appendix, containing rules and ob
yjy ferv.lMOSs for afijlHug the lUore advanced Undents
for to write with uerfyirujty and accuracy,
By LINDLEY MURRAY.
1 0 w " 'T'hisis a publication of much merit, and fu'uy
answers the profeflions in the Titje. 11ie anp«n
dix contains lotne of the best rules for writing e
and ,c K ,lnt! y> 11:1 d with propriety, that we recoiled to
jing havc fcen -"
Monthly Review, July 1796.
" This Grammar' is, on many accounts.entitled
, ow to commendatory notice, its matciiale have been
carefully and judiciously (eleiled ; its arjangemcnt
is diftiiuit and well adaptod to the purpose <i£ !n
---firudiun and its expreijion is simple, perspicuous
and accurate, &Cl" ,
J ' See the character at large in the 4nalytieal
Review, July 1796.
ha, English Exercises,
cd, Adapted to the Grammar lately publilhed by
.-h' ' Lindley Murray, confiding of exemplification of
J- D 1 the parts of speech, inllancesof falfu orthography,
of ! 11 * of the rules of fyncax, defers in punc
•he f uat ' oß > and violafions of the rples r-efpeding
ri- r tr fp' cu ity and accuracy, drfigncd ftr the beneSt
icy 0l " P riv:lt ' ; learners, as Vvell us for thcufe of schools.
■>n, " W ® • Vfave heen much pleased with the pctufal
oil Exercises. They occupy with distinguish
( ed excellence a most important place in the fcicncc
' of the Englilh langu-age; and as such, we can
:x- r recommend them to the Teachers of
bchools, as well as to all ttiofe wjio are desirous of
( attaining corre&nefs and precision in their natiye
tongue."
Monthly Review, Jnly 1797.
The above Books are fpr sale at Joseph & James
Crpkshanks book Qor«, No. 87, Market Arect!
December x. 'atawiw.
L' ; '
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
a - Diseases.
» • • »> ' ; ■ r
riIIS DAY 13 PUBLISHED, in one vol. o&rvq.
By William Young, Boolfeller,
th . No. 52, Second lireet, the corner of Chel'nut llreet,
(Prut, in OajrJt 87 I I Cents J
r. Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
I Paper,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Li?e ;
On the principles eftabliflied in thk elements.
of Medicine, of the lite'celehrated
JQ H N B ROW N, M. D.
With an attempt to corrcil lome important er
rors of that work, and cases in illullration, chief
ly fele<2ed from the records of their prafiice,at
the General-Hospital %t Calcutta,
Bx WjLifiAM £sf CKAS. MAC LB AN.
To which is subjoined, a Treatise on the a<SUon
°f Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion f"or the 911 r<; of diseases, of iijdireift debility
Andac(ifft;rtation onthtfources
Pfftilentialdifaafes; in whichisaitemptedtoprovt;
by a numerous of foils, that they'pe
'* ver arise from contagion, but ace always produ
ced by certain states, or certain vTcittitudjjs o"f
r > the liy Charles Maclean,' of
I Calcutta.
" oy - »'•
0 School Books and Stationary.
W. Y O~U N, G,
No. t2, Se«ond-(lreet, corner of Chefnut-ftrect,
"tXAS now ready for sale, a very large aflbrt-
A 1 ment of Snrliji, French, Latin and Greet
SCHOOL BOOKS Alft, luch elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academics
and colleges throughout the Vnjfed Stages.
I.ATtLY fMBLISHIi),
Sheridan's Diiftionary, the. fix'th edition, in ope
large vol. 8 vo. price 3 dols.
Dittp, largp 11 mo. price I dol. 75 es.
» Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts,
All fo{ts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Piper ; Boards, Pa(l«boards,
fi*-athing and blotting Papers ;"printfd'Blanks,
bhnkTiooks, Wax, Wtffers, and other articles, •(
the best quality, used in the counting house, or
public olfice. ' ,
t Catalogues of a rryfcellaneffus coUeflion of
( BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be 1
[ by iriquiring as aboVe. OA. 14. —3aw6w
This Day ]
1 And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, tornerof, <
Second and Chrfnjut ftrcets, ' ,
Price 3-Blit «f a
Observations crt certain Documents
Contained i> No. V and VI of 1
" The History of tl>c. United State* for 1
th? yea? 1796,"
In which the chakoe or speculation norainfi c
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, s
Late Secrztaky of the Tkeasurv, is
REFUTED. ' '' j
truiTTSN Br ulm sll r. v
This publication presents a concise ftatcment
of the base means praftifed by tht Jacobins of the I J
United States to asperse the characters of those j
pcrfons who «rp considered as hofttle to their difoj l .- | '
ganizing fchemcs. It also contains the cor- *
■ refpoAdence between Mr. Hamilton and Mtffp. I
Monroe, Muhlenbiirgh andVcnabfe, onthefub
jeftof the documents albrefaid, and a series of let
ters fr»m James Reynolds and his wife to Mr.Ha
milton, proving beyond the of a d<!ubt,
that the connedion between hinj and *
was the result of a daring conspiracy on the part I
of the latter his afiociates to extort money. v
#5" A discount of ore third from the retail price
will be made in fayor ol wholefaie for n
cash. Orders to be aidreffed to Mr- Yo'tfff*.
AuguH of.
a,place, v
AS a .Wet Nurfc, a vpung wp»wn f who can
_ bewell recommended. Inquire in Eleventh
llreet, near Race-flreet. natif. 17. | .
"cod 1 w.
For sale. or to he let on ground- ;
rent, ai
A.,valuable f.ot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Filth streets, fronting the State
llqufe fqujre. This lot is fifty-one feet front B
on and ope hundred and thirteen
feet an half on Fifth, street ; there,are at c
present two fipalt two story aijd.a
number of fitiall tenements thereon.
'Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient flores, wharf, &c. fituate.oo
Water-fireet, between Mulberry and Saflafras
streets, containing in front on Water street sis- th
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east- th
ward nine:y-five fest, then widening to the cl
south t'urteti) feet fiy inches. Tbele houses un
ave ine, convenience of a public slfey adjoiiupg N'
on the north fide, and are a very defir3ble fitua
tinri for a m-reliant, flour fa«3or,or others w!;o
ipayhavebccsfion for flotage of gocds. This l,
property will be fold on Very rc'aionaWc terms
i'orcalh. For fu;thcr information apply to the I
print/sr.
July 31- m&w:f pe
New-Theatre,
, s . D'amber 11, 1797. •
'a- I Managers particularly reqntft the con-»;
;t: . cttfrence of t,le public in the of a j
] cufloin, which hws hitherto o/ giving a- i
J way or difpoliag ol Kfi TUKN CMiiCKS at the j
rhcatre.
II V . 1 hey are aware that jentlctnen uticonfcious
n of any wrong done to tae interelt of the inftitu
® 'I tionby thispradicc, from a C-neral, though rtiif
0, taken idea that Checks are the ffinrefrntatives of a
right to so many feats in tkn Thdatro, during an
Evening's Enter taiurofint, and transferable at vvjll;
eo when in fadl, they were never intended a 9 more
en than' toitnr by which the Door-keepers are enabled
to afcertaia with th<? l?aft trouble to the parties % that
themfehes hav6 before in the Theatxc, ©r
us paid for their admission.
. Independent of the injury the Managers sustain,
at fuca a encourages a crcu Jof idle boys and
other disorderly fyrround the doors of
the 4 iiesitre, the oorrtiptiun of their moral* and
the gteai annoyance ps the Audience; '
iv < i 358 foorci of twp evijs of no in-
J i confidrrable mi^hkhdt; one that
01 ve,ry improper, company is. by theTe in eai i admit
y» ted-.;- and ih<? other, that to Checks passing
into difboneß hands, they have frequenaly
countcrlcited to a krge amount purpofesof
® c Sale
s j 1 his statement will it isrefpeSfully hoped, in
duce the Public to discourage fi/ch a traffic : and
»' the exertions of the Managers will, if thus assisted,
eafijy prove adequate to its enti-A: abolition.
WIGNELL REINAGLE.
j December 13 IW
re FOR SALE, ar
Joseph Anthony If? Go.
>, No. S- Chefnut Street,
t " A cargo of chqlce Eourdeaux Brandy, Ift and 2d
proof, just landed
350 bales of sonrbon cottoh of quality
J 9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper ia bales
Bourbon Indigo of the
H'gh proof J|amaic»ipirits
>■ Old London particular M»iii;ira wine /In pipe* &
do. market dp. C qr. casts.
c > New England rum in hogsheads
Genuine Holland Qin in pipes
n Claret in cafe»
Spermaceti capdles and ftrain'd oil
Ptitna Bollon heef
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrils and half barrels
Dp. Herring in do do
• Bcft Boston Mackarel in barrels oS the fall fare.
New-E ngljjf,d tdw l-^ttn
A few tons of Russia cordage,
•- Rullia feather beds
> : Cilovtr and Timothy feed in :aflcs
t | Long, whalc-bene
No, i, 3, ;>nd 3, spft.oi> fail cjitc^
A feiy quijity Uyfon te^
• Carolina rice in whjale and hali tierces !).i)A
i An invoice of Dutch ho)iOv( glass ware.
. Nuvembtf 8. ' d3\y.
A person well with
' ttheory and pnaitiaofhofik-keepin^wliflhjljWien
■" Imany yeaxscngage4 inbt)(si|ef3fothuTifel(anfl others,
be glaJ to he employed, either as an agent
" or factor; or in polling books ; stating unsettled
f Hwp' V> 9f ln -. W c Wi apy. oih-c ktad ofi wnt
' ing, in French, or, En^Uih,
A note iuldreffed to, j. A. and lfft at titis office,
j win be puniSually att,eiid«4 to,
november 30. jawtf
| > 0, T I C
perfonf arf. hereb*
that the frV&rtber intends to apply for a re
■ newal of the undermentioned loft c< r'tificates of
[ Bank of th«. United States—He for
! warded them under coyer, of a to
John Ant}cT,of Loudop, hy, thf ihip Ba«hu», cppt.
' George, wjiJchjeft tlyis port in Julie, lafi for I»on
<ton. But that (hip having been on h er
passage and feu»to France, the above letter and in
clofures have failedin their destination.
ceftificates, vis.
Nos, 26325, 26j?<7, eaffc for
; fqur fhsres, d?tc4 January
■ issued in the naipe of Henry Grac«, of Tot?
, tenhatu Higlicrofs, Britain.
Z/VCCHEUS COLJ.INS.
Philadelphia, november 8.. 2atv6w
" NOTICE. • ■
THE Stockholders of the Bank of-the United ,
States, are informed that according to the
ftatixe of Incorporation a. general Elesflion fbr t
twenty D;reilpr« wjll be held a| ths
, of the United Stjitff itvdje City of Philadelphia, .
on Monday the Grft day of January aj,tfi> -
o'clock in the forenoon. ,
And pursuant to the Eleventh of the
Bye Laws the Stockhokleri of the said Bank
arc hereby notified to afiemble in general Meet- t ]
ing at the lame.place,op Tuesday tlije fecotul b
day. of .next at, live the li
vening. n
By oi;derjofthe. Board of direiWi, b
G. SIMPSON, Cashier. e
Second fundament«l Article.
Not more than three fourths of tne,Dirfi£\ori.
lin office, exclufure of the Piefnlent, shall be e- v
Ugjible.for, tUe next succeeding year, but- the {.'
Direct or-wko shall be the ti«i* of an
Eleflioi) may alwayjbererelefled. V
Philadelphia, nov.
FOR SALE, "~ r ~ U
By BENJAMIN, GLARK,
No. ss, the«or l ner,(»f, l Chyl't;pt anjl Froi^AvffW,
A, large quantity, of Glocfcsv and b<
hijsa .genfr^l ; atTqr.tmeat of Tools,
Efles and Materials, cosfiflting of Clock,M»v?n P
'tTjents, eight day and thirty hppr brass pinions 01
Qfd Urge work Bflls, clo;k and watc;h Dials, m
(Springs, Hands, GlafTes, Pu trice Stone,. Emery,
Ujotun. Stone, Cat Gut; bench, (land and tail
Vices; "turns, Plief.%Chains,.Seals,Keys,.Stc. &c. bi
* # * Appreaticts,Waited. G
noyembcr 3. flttntf- a J
•J To be, S'Jd, _
. The time oft a Negro Boy, r
About fifteen years of age, has seven years yet
to f<;tye ; he is au exjelltpt hoafe Servant, a&iva at
andjbealthy. Printer- ul
December 3. ds (w, at
T-his Day is th
BV \ffifT< Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric and the
ottirr IScaK'ellfrs, •' ni
Price p^e,Dollar, l„
Efcgapt'j : prbitcd on Wove ,paptr } and, fat*, aa
Bv John i'hcropfoa,. •
a view, or
The Gonflitutions
Of the. f&veral.States with each other, and y-ith
the tjnijed States :'eihihitipg in
th<s prpmiiient features of caeli Conftitptiqu, and
clairmg together their ny>ft provifiops,
under the i"cveral heads of admiaiftrafion ; with r "
Nqtes andCbfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South CcrroHnet, v ,
L 1,. D. am! member of tha Congress of the
IjnitedStatej. j th
Dedicated to of th* United States. 1 as
N. B. A few Copies printed on sn |
per, at.s.4th!of a dollar. {
New Aflembly Room,
South Fourth flreet, between Chefnut and Walnut
, streets.
? Mr, FRANCIS,
OF THE HEW-THEATRE,
e O ESPEGTFOLI.Y informs his jfcholars and the
iv public in general, that his Academy for Dauc
:s ing will commence, for the season, on Thurfjay,
. December IJ, at thep'oove
ELEGANT ROOM ;
a W(ien he hopes to reqr.iv.e the continuance of their
t acculios\ed patronage, which it w>U be his unrc
; mitting endeavor to defervj.
e The days of teaching; fur his young pupils arc
1 Thtirfjays and Saturdays, from 5 o'clock In the
t atcernqon till 6, and from 6 till 9, far those of a
r more advanced age.
As an accommodation to thofc liyjag in this vi
, linage, Mr FMfccis intends to in,llri;(9 a fsnaH
1 party of children op YV'euiiefday and Friday
f noon?, at his house.
1 Diftia.sl from the PrJ.3ill.ng Balls, JJf. FaaNcit
will have four private feleit JSabfcriptjan k*Uf.
Privateteaching, either at the Academy, orhii i
s hou/'e.
Mr. Francis*! firft 3;v)l will b.e 09
5 Tucftjay, 19th Dec. at t)ie Neyy Affjoibly RfOiP
ir Ladies 3nd Gentlemen's tickets to be hid, by
f applying to Mr. f. as usual.
for further particulars, enquire of Mr. F. No.
- 70, north pighth flreet. Pes. 11—mwftf
1 Imported in the brig Eliza,
Capt. Hastie,_/J"cw? Bourdeavx ;
Claret ip 'Jafes q[ 4 very fup.m'igr quality,
White Sauterne Wi:ie in Cases,
Qliyc Oil in bafltets of 13 bottles ea'c^,
White and cpjoured Kid G|qves,
do. do.£i{l( do.
A fjw pipes q1 Bourdeaus Brandy,
| For SjJe by
JAMES l ATIMER.jvn.
71, South \Vhmt«s.
Who hat also for Sale,
A few qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine,
D g P- 1". daw
For Sale by the Sublcriber,
10 bales Coil'as
40 do. i3aftps „
11 dp. Mftijioqdy
J7 dp. (phintz
7 do. Tookery
% do.
35 do.
3 do. Check Stripe*
I do. Guzzic \
I box Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
3 s pipes fine ft particular Wine, of
tha vintage 1795.
mordecai LEWIS.
December y 3 aw 4 w
Thomas Ranoaj^l,
P9i?SjjliCl9' his refpeiU to his. Brands, and the
Public in , informs them that he has opened
an Office, at his house, No. 88, Spruce flreet, for
the gqnjofe of bull nets iq. the line, of
Coquniffion and Agepcy, collecting rewind put
ftandjng claims in any part ot the United Sut<»
He flatter* hiqiftlf. that from his lpng refidaoca iq
this couptry aqd a general knowledge o/it, hisXer
cicss will be found worthy thp notice of those who
may please to confide, to him the management qf
any of*their concarna.
N> Bk Security given where requirep.
Mthmo 34. 3pwtf
City of WafhiijigtQn,
SCHEME
Of tl)e,Lottery, No. IJ,
F.br tlx Improvement, of the, Rental City,
& calh 30,popj.*r< ; jo.oov
U dittq 1J.Q90 &, ca,flms,Df)p 40>poo
I ditto 15,9.00 4 Qaft
L ditto 10,000 & ca(h 10,000. t0,00.0
I dittp 5,090 &
1 ditto 5,900 $ ca(h 5,000 10,000
1 caili prize of *0,900
t da. 5,000 eich,ar*j ■ jO,OOO
i.«. d«t- 1,000 ' - 10,00 c
*9. dv- ifIJV - K>,<XXI
oq do, ipft - - to,ooo
»oo do. 50
409 dp. 35 - - 10,000
1,00.0 do.- 30 - so,ooo
15,00 c do. • >58,000
SfiWi
Ticketj, av Ejght , 490,90*
Nj B. Tofsv»ur those who may tafcc a quan
tjty of Ti)ck«:s,the prixe-of. 40,ododollars will b«
th«,tA*T dI»JKn. ticJwt, »ndth«
bpt on,*
AndapfrovaJnotcj,
rqonsy or, prizes, iq ten days alter, drying, will
bp rectivo<f for any number not
ets.
ThUUptt«cy wjU afford. aOicWgant fpeciuien o(.
t^cpjivate buildings to, be. er«ift«i, iq,,
Walhington—Twp oeany|u] dcfliyis, arc a|jMdy y
l»leili;<i,for the «D(irc fronts.on two of thcpjiblk
squares; from thtoft drawiagn ir ispropofdito
two centre ami '~ourcorner fooq aspof.
fMT tbis.Jofwry is fojd,' and t°< coqyey thaiu,
l!>c manner dffcrihedjq.thf fchpmc.fot the. HcteJ
ifjttery, A nett deduction of fiv.e. per cent, will
b{ made tp defray the necessary e*pen)es of .print
ing, &c. and the furplns will'be n}ad<S a part of'
the fpnd .intended for.,fcb«-National Urrvv<rlft.y, to
bf creiled within the city jaf .Walhin^too^
The f«cui;itjesgiven for thepjxm»flt,pf tbf
Pr' le s, are held by the.Prefidrnt and two
ors of, th( Bsnk.of Columbia, and are valuod >t.
more than half the amount of thelewery.
SulJtiUJiC BLOi)G£T.
,§, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ;of Jamts &.Co.. Baltimore; of Feter
Gilmaq, Boston ; of John .Hopkins,,Wikhmond
and nf RicAard , W«llf, Cnppet'i; Fftrr.y. niinf
Peale's Mus.eum.
valuable repository of thr works of Na
ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
tins undtrfti.oding, is opened daily, as
usual. It Hands in an : airy and healthy .fittwtion,
and free l'rom the epidemic at.prefent afflkis
the city ; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the greateS fafeiy.
As an (luily of Nature is .the
tn9ft.ratipn.al and fleattng '■ ava.Swcn(:e,.the, nwft
lubliiTve
Expands th? hear!- T^;y.
IVljtn Natures -jjoris gait (ban?, fftd
" I-Jfild,,
Many mtes-Jin;f additioas h'lvc lately been,
rp.to thi. MuiLum : afd the feathered tribej.
contaiftinaa variety of the mbH.rare and J)eautiful
fubjefti, s now very advantageously arranged.
U'axen Figures, of Men large as lif<> (some of thsrh
Cillsifrom nature) are here drefTed ia'their proper
habits, and placed in attitudes chr.ra&eri&ic of their
refp &ive nations. Here may be fqen the North
f-', riierican. Savage, and the of South-Ameri
ca—a l'.boring Chinese, and the Chlncfe Gertie- 1
map—the sooty African, and the Kamtfchadalc—
with f-me Natives of the South Sea ICands. The
imwenfe variety and intcrefting diversity which
this Mqfeum ofier6 to the view, may be lecn but
aannpt.be deferibed with full cfTeil,
.'£'s' I'lice only I-4th of, ,1 dollar. :
Seyt. 38. law
A farm for sale,
, TN Perth Amboy in the fiate of New-Jeifay,
* °' four hundred acres, including a proper
proportion of meadow, of arable ami wood
land, and Cik rnatjh t There is on the premises,
* a good apple orchard, arid a variety of othty
fruit trees, it is well watered with springs and
' brooks, it is hounded on two fides with navi
gable waters and has a good mill site, its situa
tion is healthy and plca£u»t, commanding a
of the navigation of Perth Amboy and its
environs, .and convenient to the fineft fifh and
, oysters in their proper season, it abounds with
natural manure from which, with the advanta
l ges of the fait marsh by applying the hay there
from to the keeping of flock, may at a small
fxpenl'e, be enriched to a great tiegr»e and ren
-1 -dered one of tf>e firtt grazing farms in the Jtate ;
it is calculated for a faraair or a gpntle
map s feat, Laving several eligible sites for
building. This farm will be fold together or
divided, as may Tuit a purchaser, at private
sale, or if not fold, will be set up at public auc
tion on Tuefciay the nineteenth day of Decem
ber next, at the luiute ot Robert inn
keeper in Perth Amboy, at eleven o'clock m
the forenoon v Any perlon inclining topurchafe
may vi?w the pri-miies by application to John
or Matthias Haljied at Perth Amboy, froth
. whom or from the Hon. Jonathan Dayton, Esq.
speaker of the house of reprefeijtatives of the
United States now in Philadelphia, from. Mat
ibiaj William fon,)u\). efq. or Mr. Samuel Smith
at Elizabeth-Town further information may be
°i>Ui!tfd, —and who are pafieCed of maps of
the farne.
Perth Ambay, Nov. 16, 1797.
; —eodtißD
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, prno to enntrai9 his busi
ness. oifers this i.ft*ie far sale, on moderate
terms. On it arc one Bla!l and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreiug Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair ot ft.uvci; »t£r> a good Forge, all
in perfeS repair, as are jIUIic Water Works conceit
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnace*
were lately built lor the purpofc of catling Cannon
for this arc about two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which it under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the bell Kay and
Failure. The Cannon lately manntatiurtd there,
tully proves the excellency <pf the metal, which is
superior to any in thi* country, and probably, equal
to any ioi the world ; for not one of fixty-n.je gwns
( lately made, although some of the 24 were, bored
; into 32 pounders, have failed on piouing. TJIi suit.
; ation is very eligible, pasticulariy foe this branch of
j manufafturc, and a pUcc of arms lying in the .late
;of Connefticut. and only 30 miles from Itvenal rand -
' ing» on the Hud/on's riv«r, and having every adv»H
---! t«go thai can from a gltoty o£ water issuing
i from a large natural popd, very near the Furnace t
and which may be converted into a variety of other
■ ufeful purposes. The purchaser can beaecotmnodat
ed with ail the Hook and uteniils, and have poflcffioi*
on or before the firJt of Juqe next, and preparation
' mayTse made in the mean time tor going into Blatl.im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in g#od ocder, with fame coal, Ore, Sec, Sse. For
: terms, apply t<i«JMr. Jpfcpb Aothony, in Philadel
iphia; David Brooks, Esq. one ofthe JleprefentaMtea
ih Gongrefs for this State ; Mr, David Waterman, oa
thftprcntifctt or tothe.ptoprietar.in Now-York.
WILLIAM NEILSONv
rf - 1 ■ ga.wtt 4
Houie and Lota, in lhrd&ntvwn±
TO BE SOLD, a handforne two story Honfc.
with-the Lot 030 whiclr.it is ere&ed,.
about tile middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of B&rdfcntown. The Hetfe is. flirty two
feet front, and in neat order. Tlle-lot-contain*
one acre., and is one hundred feet, on the main,
street,, *nd extends with the fame breadth uhaik
flreet. Also, a large Lot, containing nwu-Iy font
acres, fepainted trom.the former by baclt.ftreet.
One third only of' tHe purchase money will be re
quired upon executing-a deed, an<f for the- re
mainder, such credit will bo given as the purchaser
et may chufc. This prop«rtf wiill be fold /re« w
all incumbrances, ?nd an iodifputable title-.giveftf!
For further particulars, enquire, either of Dr.
William Burnes. refuliug in Bordtntown, near,
the prenufes, who will (hew-the fame, or tf
RETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, no. 1444 M*rfat«fttecn:
Qecerohtj. a, ? awtf
Real Eltate for ijralfc,
A PLANTATION, in a healthy and goetlii
ruatiou on Chefftr Creek,, in Mlddleten
Tnwnflnp, Delaware County, containing
acres, upwards of 50 acres of-which are wood
land, ; well timbered ; the rewai»der plough darul"
.aijd watered, meadow—of the,latter, many more;
acres can be made at a ft»»U expence. There are
011 fatd premises, a gpod orchard of bed grafted
fruit, a house, with a spring-near the door, a frame
b»rr*,vrith flabling undsr, atiiaiog tencmunt on
eoepart of faid.place.——A»y-.p«rfofi.inciiaiiij:
to purchase, may view the
to Wjt.PtN»u.L, on . said farm, and know the.
terms by applying to Jonathan in the.
borough. ot Ctelfer,
npyeimbcc-.si. 3t end
To be fold;.
AN BLEOAKT COUNTKY.SEAT, contaln
■ iog 6- aure*-a»d 40 perches, wjth- a neat two
Hvufe-and Kitchen an- apple
Orchard, tu. fituau- 00 tlte IriW traift .-latjc, in the
towpfhip, of MeyamenOog, about one.raild.from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the .office of
theCPhiladelphia Gazette*
The intpt»vonent.i upon.this plaoe) for tade and
-elegance, (laud unrivalled.
December 1. <jtf
All Perlons who are indebted to
the estate of^WitUAVjiHErsHAiT, fen. ot Phila
delphia, deceased, are, to make fpeedjr
payment; and thofc who have.any demands a
gainst said estate, will pleafeto pre£cstlhem,pro.
perly attelled, to the fubfcrihers.
1 Will'wmi Hiy&am r ~i
Robtrt Heyjhom. > Executors.
Frond* Boiues S'ayre, J
novtmber 6. IaW4W
LAW BOOKS;
Latest London and Dublin Editiont.
H. Cff P.. HWE, Boohfeilers,
Ho. l6,iSouth Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE juftTetcived by the l rte arrivals (rom
Lpntton and Dublin, tbeii fpnirg importa
tion, confiding of-a variefy-of the lat«ft ard ninlt
approved 1 .aw Books, which; added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the most extensive collection ev.,
er offered for sale in this country. They thetefore
beg lcavcto notice, that trom the nature of .thtip
connexions they are enabled to felllrilh
eil'tioHS (as. have hitherto done) at the very
loweilprices. The following are among the late It
publications.
Vefcy, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1 »yy.
Peabe's Cases at-Nifi Prius ; Ridgeway'3 Ref-ort»
in the time cf.Lord Hardwicku ; Mover's Proders
Praake in the ItGclcfiaftical Courts ; Barton's
Treatifo. on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's PrSdlice of
the.Court of King's Bench in Personal A(9ions,2
.parts complete ; Ward's Law-os Nations ; Cruise
on Ufcs j modem Reports, 2} vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rica expefl t» receive hy the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, the sd part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Lefc, and'a RUfttbw of
hew publications.
June ?6.