of the t&tCSj <b° Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NVMB&R 1363.3 FRIDAT EVENING, JANUART 20, 1797. [Volume XI.
LOST,
On the Road between this city and Baltimore,
A black leather POCKET-BOOK,
Containing sundry papers valuable only to the owner,
alio between three and four hundred dollars. Whoever
• lias found the fame, and will leave 1 it at the office of
the editor No. 119 Chefnut street, with the contents,
particularly the papers, (hall be handsomely rewarded,
an.l no queftionsafked.
January 17.
, For Sale,
Two Convenient BRICK HOUSES,
'Three stories high, 16 feet front,' and 40 feet deep
e.-th, and adjoining; situate! on the east fide of Front,
beWeen Kace and Vine-streets ; Nos. 161 and 163.
They will be fold on very reasonable terms, either
Separately or together. Apply to
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
January 13 diw
A C A R D.
If Monsieur G H. SShli,
Who left Bordeaux the 20th June last, aad arrived
at Bolton j.bout the middle oi Aaguft, in the schooner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is requested to call on
Joseph Atlthony & Co. No. 5, Chcfnut-fireet, who
will give him foms information of importance.
December 24, 1796. §
~ W ANTE D,
A MECHANIC, to eredl Spinning and Weaving
Machines by water, such a; are ui'ed at my manufac
tory —Apply to JAMES DAVENPORT,
|No. 401, North Front-street.
N. B. None need apply but a complete mechanic,
and a -ua 1 of liability. (
0 abr Mill, tcr •ib-r 29 11961
Cheap French China.
THE lubfcribers finding it impoffibleto supply their
store with any more China from France, the prices
being too immoderate| in the maimfa&anes, give no
tice that they will fell at prime colt the remaining
fteck on hand, confiding of
Dessert Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
Separate Cups and Saucers 1
Gruupes and Figures
/ Alabalter Vases
Looking GlalfesJ in gilt frames,
Befidcs India Japan'd Toilet Delks, Cluifs, Tables
xiad Quadrille iiuxc... PASQUIER & Co.
No. 91, South Second-street.
December tfh. tt
FOR SALE,
The fact-failing schooner ORJON;
*4s?: wi ]g3r Seventy tons burthen ; fifteen months
jjw -1 ; her frame is of the bed of white
oak: ihc i* a faithful built veflel, handsomely finifhed off
and well found ia every is ready to receive a
cargo on board, and can be put to sea without any ex
pence on her hull, fails or figging : fee flows fix hundred
barrels; has a handsome cat>in and fleer age, and a half
deck which will flow from feventy-five to eigk.y barrels ;
has been newly caulked, graved and painted. For terms
apply to BENJAMIN RHODES,
At No. 170, corner of Market and Fikk-ftreets,
Or to the Captain en board laid fcheoner at MefTrs.
Willie and Yardfley's wharf, adjoining Cheiaut-ftreci
wharf; where there is for sale
Excellent pickled Salmon in barrels,
the be ft of American Mess Beef, and some very excellent
Bolton manufa&ured Chocolate.
December 26
JT3CV For Sligo and Kiliibegs,
-American Ship btAXcr,
Ctithbert Kiggs, master.
Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or pa'Tage apply to
William Bell ;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well afiorted
3 Bales Irish F.annels, a id 2 boxes Linen*
3j Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wins ; Indigo. Russia Matts,
Also,
A feyv barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, 1796, s mwftf
FOR SALE,
%iflß SHIP MARY,
SAMUEL pa RKER„ Master,
hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, lhe will Jake
freight for Hamburg.•" Apply as above.
October 31. d
For Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DIANA,
Samuil Pile, Master,'
*! Burthen 205 47-95 tens register, built in
Philadelphia, in the year 1792, of live oak
ind red'cedjr, and was sheathed 13 months ago, die
Iks just had a compleat out-fit, and may be sent to sea
at a very trilling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin iff Co.
If ho have for file on btard fend vejfel,
j&7 calks of fine yellow paint.
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing (late*.
1 box ink stands and note preffet.
14 bales of fail canvass. ,
And on hand,
• \
Imperial }
Hyson, and, > TEAS.
Soucheng ) ,
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the ftrft qaality.
19 tubs Quicksilver.
t cherts Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few cherts Mancherter goodswell aflorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &c.
3 boxes black sewing silk.
ito crates Q*en« ware well alTorted.
10 tons sheet lead.
Nails alTorted, flat and fljarp points.
London Particular, } Madeira Wine in pipes
xt v , \ lnd Hogflieads.
New-York Market, J 6
40 pipes and 10 hogflieads Tenerifle wine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
locs Mahogany.
Nov- 7. tth&ftf
Wants a place, as Wet Nurse,
A woman with a good bread of milk, who can be
~wrell recommended, for further particulars enquire of
the Printer. ' Jam 17.
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of -Land,
WELL situated, laying and between Marfli
aRd Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
four fcparate Patents. Folr terms of sale apply to
Win. Blackburn,
No. 64, Sauth S>*cond~ftrtet
O&ober 31. mwftf
, CNO TICE. •
«
Sales of LANDS of the United States, ii*the
1 Norrk-Weftern Territory, heretofore advertised
in the several public pipers, will commence this even
ing* at the City Tavera —to be continued from day
t« day, 'till the tenth of February nexU if not sooner
fold.
January 4
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased ( or
exchatig,d for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chrfh'ut
*reet s where a corre<ft Numerical Book is kept for public
infpe*stion Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
changed for prizes diawn in the 'Washington Lottery, of
which the 54th and 55th days returns are received
The Business of a Broker carried on as usual.
%* A SHARE in the NEW THEATRE to be fold
pn reasonable tortus.
January ia. ttstf
Public Notice,
IS HEREBY GIVEN, that i have applied to the
juHges of the Supreme Court of this (late, to supply the
defeat in my Title to a lot of ground, fituats on the Wed
fide of Pourth-ftreet, containing in breadth to ieet, and
in length 56 feet, bounded Northward and .Westward, by
ground of the fubferiber, Southward by ground of Edward
Shippcn, *nd Eaflward by Fourth-flrcet, occasioned by
the loss of a deed from Timothy Harrington, John Lewis
and James Walton, by their attorney Robert Motlyncux.
—All perfoiw concerned, are required to appear betore
two of the ju it ices of the said court, at the house of
Thomas M'Kean, esq. the Chief 'justice of the slate, en
the 30th inft. at 10 o'clock in the foreuoon, to make their
answer to the bill of the fubferiber, filed in the office of
Edward Burd, esq. Prothonotary of the said co urt.
WILLIAM SHIPPEN, jun.
Philadelphia, January 6th, 1797. dt^oth
For Sale
By private contraS, a very valuable Eflate, Lniy.vti by
the name »f
C H A T H A M,
MOST delightfully situated on the north bankofßap
pahariotk river, oppolite the town of Fredenckfburg, in
the ftati of Virginia, confiding of eleven or fifteen hun
dred acres, as may bell luit the' put chafer. There is on
this estate, a large and well built brick huufe, containing
nine commodious rooms, exclufiwe 01 a spacious hall or en
try, si feet Square, two pair of ilaus, suitable aiid conTen
lcut pailages, and excellent dry cellars. It is placed on a
fine lie'lchy eminence, commanding views in
every over th t e towns of 1 redericklburgh and
Falmouth, and an extensive cultivated country. The
grounds aeijuming the house are neatly laid out in pleaf
u.'e esd kitchen gardens intcrlperfea with a variety of
fcarte trees, a choijc collection of flowers and flowering
(hi u'»s, and enriched by various forts of the following
fruits, viz apples, pears, walnuts, chefnuts,cherries,peach"
e», plumbs, nad-arines, apricots, grapes, figs, rafberries,
goofebeiries.ftravvherries,and currants; the whule admi
raßly varied by turfed fl«pe» which have been lormed by
great labour and eipencs. Bordering upon tbefe im
provements,are fevcrul lots, in a high Hate of Milcivation,
and well let with- red clover and ofcl.ard grass, from
which three heavy crops of hay are tfchen every year. Ad
jacent thereto are two large and flourilhing orchiirds ; cnc
ot well chosen peach trees, the other of apple arid pear,
trees, leleiiedtrom the be iiurlcncs in the ftatc. Pro
perly detached from the raanfion house are .extensive
roomy offices of every denomination, viz a Kitchen and
Larder, house-keeper's room and Laundry, wiih a cellar
underneath lor a variety 'of purpoies, a store-house and
Imoke house ail of brick, a dairy and Ipring house of ( tone.
Stables for thirty horses, an . coach house* for four car
riages. Also a targe and well planned farm yard, v ith
basil and granary, a cow house, with separate stall* for
thirty-fix grown cattle; apartments for fattening veals,
mutton- and lambs; exteniive (beds for {heep, and other
arrangsmeatsfor stock of every delcriptiou, witha large
anu,convenient receptable for provender, from which they
can be furnilhed without being cxpofed to the inclemency
oi the weather. An overseer's houJ u , biacklmith's fliop,
and quarters fufficient to accommodate in the best marw
ner more than fifty labourers.'
The arable lands are fs> advantageouiTy divided as to as.
ford an opportunity of making a large quantity oflndian
corn annually, without bringing the fleldiinto fcnilar cul
ture oftner than once in fnur years ; confequentiy the
lands may be improved by keeping up the inclol'ures during
the intermediate years, or may be beneficially fallowed for
wheat and other grain at tne option of the proprietor.
On the prcmifes there is also a merchant mill with one
pair ot best French burr 1 tones, and one pair of Cologne ;
furnilhed with modern machinery, and now leafed for the
unexpired terpi oi four years, at 1501 per annum, and all
■grain for the ul'e of the farm, hopper free, which is near
ly tool. more, r'h* null and miiler'shoufe are built of
free stone, within a very small distance of navigation, near
to which are two or more valuable lilheries, and a well
accustomed ferry over the Rappahannock to the town of
Frederickfburg. ld« land tontains mexhauftible qua'rrie s
. of free l tone near to the river, is plentifully supplied with
remarkable fine water and pofl'effes a due proportion of
meadow, which by having the command of water may
be confideraoly increal'ed. The roads are good, and the
neighbourhood genteel and sociable. In fa<ft, exelufive of
an improveable and well conditioned farm, the value and
emolument inseparably conneaed witn a mill, ferries,
fifberies and quarries eligibly fltuated ; the profits arinng*
Irom an ice-house inferior to none in the state, and a gar
den of four acres so abundantly ftockcd with vegetables
of all forts as to be fully equal to the demand in market,
thire might be detailed many other advantages, apper
taining to the fertility of theft lands, which the fubferiber
conceives it unnsceffary to mention, being fully convinced
that when examined, it will be found to be a complete,
pleasant and healthy relidence, possessing beauties and'
convenience* fuffieient to attract the attention of any per
son desirous of becoming a purchaler.
The' motive which induces the fubferiber to offer for
sale an estate so Angularly beautiful and adva/itageoas, is
a desire to. become an inhabitant of Alexandria, where he
can with more ease attend to his interests in the neigh
bourhood of that city.
The purchaser may be accommodated with a few slaves
ir. families, either for plantation or domestic use. A part
of the purchafc money will be required and the balance
made easy, the debt being properly secured.
WILLIAM FITZHUGH.
ChstVam, (Virg.) Dec. 19, 1796. i>th—lawjm.
Particular TenerifFe Wine.
SO Quarter-calkj Particular TenerifFe WINE,
Of x iuperior quality,
For Sale by
A. Mar pie lfrael IV. Morris,
No. 60, Dock-Ilreet.
January jj tt»6
Elegant Brussels & Turkey Carpeting,
For lale by George Dobfon, No. 25, South Third-street.
December I?. dtf
Boarding and Lodging
May be had at No. 62, Penn-ftreet, in a creditablc
family
January 9
SALT PETRE.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Pet re for
sale at No. 25, SoWh Third-street.
November j.
Philadelphia and Lancaster I'urnpikc
Company,
January 6, 1797.
At a meeting of the Prefitlent and Managers, a di
vidend of five dollars per {hare, was declared for the
last half year, which will be paid to the 'Stockholders,
or thiir representatives any time after the 21ft of this
month. ,
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer.
Jan, fl. 1 n\r4w.
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, &c. &c.
TkU day landing from the fiiip Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from London,
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Sccond-ftreets,
A muji capital and .'xterfive Affortnient of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c. See.
Among which arc,
Five kinds .Asparagus Three kind# Creflca
Four Bcrecole Twelve Onion
Twenty-five Bean# Thirteen Radiih
•Six Fifteen Turnip
Eleven Brocoli; Fiftecja Peas
Twenty-fix Cabbage; Six Savoy
Six Carret Four Parsnip
Three ; Fwenty-thrfce Melon
Five Celery! Fwu-ty-one. Lett-uee
lan Cucumber!
Common and lemon Thyme
leaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Marygold /■' Pot Marjorum
Balm Thyme "•Mangel Wurtzel >
Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Sefci Rye Gra/s Saint Fein Lucerne
Red and white Clover' Timothy, &c. &c.
With a curious tolled ion of the mo(l efteemcd
FLOWER-SEEDS a*d ROO L'S,
Being the iuoftextenfive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Scedlrnan in London, and
are warranted treih and good.
Pointed catalogue® may be had by applying as above.
. l>ec. 17 *5 '}
In order to comply iui:h, contratts, 1 will fcU y for
dfy/KVcd bonds, on $ equal annual payments,
A Square ol LOTS,
At the upper end of l'rederickiburg, beginning op
pofue to the lower corner of Doilor VYciiford's, on
Caroline-ftrert, and running tip to the crof\ street
leading to Fitziiugh's ferry. Jnd from thence back to
Sopliia-ftreet. This fqaare I have laid off into 24 lets,
27 and an half feet froat, and 122 back, 12 on Caro-
Upe-flreet, and 12 on Sophia-fireet. Nine of those
oh Caroline-ftrect I have leafed on an annual ground
rent of 8 and 10 pounds, to the amount of 74 pounds,
i and the vicmt lots a purchal'er could enhance the value
of by building small haufes, which will a3 readily
procure tenants as pots or goards will Martins in the
spring, and yiel-o a greater profit in proportion to
their cost tkan large buildings. • Thof* who incline
to purchase may know the terms by applying to
HENRY FITZHUGH.
Reli-Air, Dec. 8, 1796. 7thJ,d4W
THE SUBSCRIBER J
WISHES to ascertain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer,
; who quitted Ireland ii 1783, or 1784, and came into
: this Country, ('tis supposed to Philadelphia) about
: four years since, be living or dead. As this intelli
! gence is of the highest importance, it will be thankful
ly received, by 1 GEO. DAVIS,
No. 313, Higli-ftreet
December 31. w & sim
Bank of Pennsylvania,
January 4, 1797.
At a meeting of the Directors th ; s day, a dividend of
fixtcen dollars on each fill re was declared' for the last
6 months, which will be paid to the Stockholders as*
;er the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cashier.
J'"- 3- dtf.
The v Elephant,"
Now exhibited, was bought for Ten Thousand
Dollars.
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet.
He eats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water ; he has drank feme days forty bottles of porter,
drawing the corks with hu tru»k.
He is perfectly inoflenfive; travels leofe, at the
rate of five nailes an hour, and is the greatest curiosity
ever brought to this Continent.
He is to be, seen 'till the 15th of January, in
Market-street between Third and Fourth-llreets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one ?4ay fee him—
after which time the former price of half a dollar will
be relumed.
He will leave Philadelphia asToon as the weather
will permit.
December 31 j
Wanted on hire,
A Cook, male cr female—alio a man servant to at
tend in a private family and perform the duties be
longing to the,dining room. None need apply who
do not understand and have not been stectiftomed to the
refpcijtive fervicesand who are not well recommended
for honesty and good behavior.
Apply at No. 12 1, Mulberry-ftrrrt, er to the printer.
January j. tawiw
Mas. G RA TTA N
Refpeilfully informs her friends, and the public in
general, that on Tuesday the lot'n day of January,
Ihe proposes opening, at No. 39, North Sixth
-1 street,
A Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
Book Muslins, from 6/3 to 12/11 per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to $/8 per yard
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to 10/io per yard
Fine Coffees
Tambour'd Book Muslins, from 13/9 to 21/* per yard
India Muslin, from 11/3 to 15/ per yard
Sheeting Muslin
Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 to 6/ per hdkf.
Book muslin Handkerthiefs from 5/3 to io/*6 per hdkf.
Muslin color'd and border'd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchiefs
Tambour*d Cravats from iq/3 to Itftl
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/3 to 16A per yard
Table Cloth* 1
Huckabu'ck Towelling
Women's Cotton Hose, from 6J& to isfper pair
Dimity from sflo to 6/ii
MenS Silk Hose
i ambour'd mailin Handkerchiefs from 11/ ii to\jf%
Irish linens for •entlenr.ea's Shirts, from jj/5 to 9/7
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, riffled or plain, Cravat*,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, Ac. &c.
Houfhold Linen, &c. &c.
A plain fiiirt, made and mark'd, 3 M dollars.
A lull ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain shirt, made ar>d mark'd, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 6 dollars.
A plain fliirt, made and marked, 5 i-a dollar*.
A IWII ruffled ditto 7 dfcllars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 i-a.
A plain fliirt, made and mark'd, 6 i-a dollars.
A very fine rulHcd ditto 8 dollars.
Linen included.
Tanuarr 1.1. $
A Quantity of Brandv,
FIRST & id proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipe*
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhd»
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen eaeft
Olafs Tumblers, in pints and half-pint*
Window Glass, in boxes, of different iizM
Kazlenuts, in sacks.
Whiting
Copperas ( . .. .
White Lead f tri J-.hds
& Spanilh Brown J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 £
tor bale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
'and half barrels
Ditto.Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Hwring in barrels and kegs
Diao Salmon, by the dozen or single one ,
Diy Codiilh, from one to .fifty kentals
Fine and coarse Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the ftene
and ground, for inamirSond ftueco-work
December I. Jtf
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGU-ST&EET,
Has received by the late arrivals,
A IVttt Selected Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, on the very
I oweft terms ;
Amongji tubicb are
Some elegant 4*4 Snd 7-8 Chinties and Cottons, new
patterns
Ditto Farniturc ditto ,
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muslin*
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
iSilk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrellas of the fir ft quality, afTorted
lriih Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
Marfcillss and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets afTorted—Jcc. &c.
O&ober 26. d
Clocks
LESLIE and PRICE,
t/o. 79, Market street, Philadelphia,
HAVE IMPORTEp, fey the late arrivals from
London, » large afTortment of WARRANTED
WA /CH ES, eenfiftiug of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel 7 d Gold Watches, with seconds, of iiiperior
workmanlhip and elegance ; also capp'd 1 and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches j capp'd & jewell'd, capp'd,
seconds, day of the month, and plain Silver Watches ;
eight day & chamber Clocks; elegant French Clocks
with marble frames ; eight day and thirty hoar, brass
■ works, &c.
Decembet 7,1, 1796. dzm
WM. HAY DON,
Drawing-Master, from London,
Where he has lludied several years under one of
the most eminent maflers in that science, attends
young Ladies and Gentlemen at their relpeilive homes.
His terras are 6 dollars per month for attendance three
times per week. Likewise all kinds of ornamental
Painting, Flowers, Fruit, &c. taught on the above
terms. A line dire&ed to W. H. left with tl?e Editor
of this Gazette, will be immediately attended td.
eo2w
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
Nt. 3, South Fourth Jlrcet,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments so his
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
and begs leave to solicit a continuance of their favors.
He has on hand an extensive affoVtmcnt of the
Most Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the belt quality, suitable for the l'eafon.
At this thop Gentlemen can be furnithed withthe bed
material , and have theai made up in the neatefl and molt
Fafhlonable manner, and 6n the fhortcft notice. He will
Vthankfully receive any orders, andpay a prompt and
panilual attention; to them.
November 10. w>New Theatre.
THIS EVENING, Friday,, January 30,
■Will be presented,
A Celebrated PLAY, in three ai£U, interfper&d with
fotigs, called
The Mountaineers.
Written, by G. Colman, jun.
Oflaviah, Mr. Moreton
Virolet, Mr. Fox
Kilmallock, I Mr. Warren
Roque, Mr. IVignell
Muleteers. ' I Mffrs ' P ar b> Darby, jr.
J Mitchell, Macdanald.
LopeTocho, Mr. Francis
Perequilio, Master M'urrcll
Goatherds, ] J^ arre { 1 '
3 Dcftbr and Morgan.
\ / Mrs. Har'vy, *nrs. DoJlor,
Females, j 0/^>
Bulcazin Muley (ifttime) Mr. Confer
Ganem, Mr. Warrell, jun.
■Pacha, Mr. Darfev, jun.
S.idi, Mr. Har-vjoed
Moors, MelTrs. Mitchell, Sc.c
. Zorayda, Mrs. Worrell
Floranthc, Mrs. Francis
Ague«, Mrs.' Oldmixort
' The jd ail will conclude with A SP \NI H FAN
DANGO, composed by Mr. Francis.
The principal parts by Mr. J. Warrell, Sig. Do&or,
and Miss Milbourne.
To which will be added
A Celebrated FARCE, inwic a<Sl, (never perfsrmed
here) called
Seeing is Believing.
, Sir Credule, Mr. Francis
Captain Night (hade, Mr. Fox
Sceptic, Mr. JVarren
Simon, Mr. Flnrkvood
Porter, - Mr. Darley, ]\m.
Miss Di, Mrs. Harvey
Kitty, Mrs. Francis
Bo*, One Dollar twdn%-five cents. Pit one Dollar,
And Gallery, half a dollar.
Tickets to be hjd at H. & P. Rice's Bo4»k-ftpre
No. 50 High-street, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
Places for the Boxes to ue taken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from 10 till i o'clock, and from
10 till 4 on the days of performance
VIVAT R ES PUBLIC A !
On Saturday th'e Tragedy of Venice Preferv'd, (not
ifled these two years) with a French Opera, called,
X<e Tableau Pirlant. On monday, the Road to kuinj
with the Flitch of B&con, in which mr.Prigmcre will
make his rft appear? nee at this theatre.
' College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Mural, Critical, and Entertaining.
Mr. FENNELL
Refpeflfully informs the Public, that
On SATURDAY EVENING,, Jan. ai, at 7 o'clock
Will be delivered,
(first part)
On the Means of Improvement in Oratory. includ
ing felefiions from Dr. Elair.
( second part)
Satan's Address to the Stin, Milton.
Anthony's Speech on the ef Julius
Csel'ar, Shahefpeare.
Anthony's Funeral Oration, Shakespeare
(third part.)
Hamlet's Soliloquy on Death, Shakespeare.
Cato's Soliloquy oh the Immortality of
the Soul, Addifon.
Ode on the Passions, Collins.
t —
£5° On MONDAY, January 23d,
Seleftinns from History.
Edwin and Angelina.
Gray's Elegy ; aacT
Part of the Deserted Village.
Tickets to be had of Mr. PonJfon, jun. at the Library ;
at mr. M'Elwee's looking-gtefs-ftore, No. 70, S. Fourth- \
street; and at Mr. Carey's, Bookseller, Market-ftrect—
-Half a dollar each.
Admiffiuri tickets for Children (a. quarter of a
dollar each) to be had at either of places.
A Watch Loft.
Loft on Monday last, a Silver Watch, makers' names,
•' Hauxhurft and Donlt New-York, 809," on the face,
hour Kind in a .small circte ; the minute hand revol-'
"ving in a larger. ' Whoever has found and will return
the fame, to jAi>ift:s £f>g k, corner or Second and Ca- '
tharine Streets, stall receive Ten Dollars'reward. If:
of-ic-red for fate, it is requeued it may be flopped.
January, 18. *5t
FOR S-A L E,
\ very Valuable- Estate,
CALLED TIVIT T E NH A M, fitunte in the ;
towrdhip of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware, i
7 1-Smiles from Phiiad; lphia, ar»d half mile from the i
new Weit?rn road containing ijo aores of 'excdieutlaM, ,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood- j
land, and the reifc arable of th-i firft quality. 'i here are j
on thepreroifesagood two fljory hrkk houfo with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with apufifip.-wetl
of excellent water in front; a large frame b . :i, ftabi.s
and convcnieiM: buildings * a iinoke-konle and ft6n£, \
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and <>irs of -pekch
e*. The fields are all in clovcr, except those v>j.mediately
uuder u tillage, and are so laid out as to have tht advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
vergent for grazing.
■Th« fituatiori is pleafont and healthy, and from the'higk
cultivation oi the land, the good neighbourhood, and th«
vicinity to the city, it is very fuitahlc for a gentleman'* .
country feat.
The foregoing is part of the estate of jkbob Harraan
and offered for fa la by
Mordecai Lewis, i
Oil* 31. iaw Surviving Executor '
A Pointer found.
Any person having loft a small POINTER PUP
PY -abuii' a fortnight since, may have him again by
proving property and paying charges. Apply to the
Printer.
Januaiy 10 3
CONGRESS OF the UNITED STATES.
HOUSB OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, January 4, continued.
The report of the committee of Ways and Means
on the fubjeft of the balances due from indivi
dual States to the United State* being under con
federation.
Mr. Gilbert fjud, the proposition offered by the
gentlemr-n from Virginia (Mr. Nicholas) however
it might ferveto di/lingui/l the mover, was of such
a nature and complexion, that he was persuaded it
t. otildmtjet with no countenapca from that House;
he thought it ought to be rejected with indignation.
It was true, he said, Virginia, as an individual
debtor Hue. could not be effected by it, as (he h.d
no property in fndh condition. It icemed to him,
he said, altogether unexampled ; and to carry with
1 it a violation of the principles of all public confidence
and good faith ; fir.-h as was aat, at this day, to t>e
paralleled, or juilified hy the practice of any en-
civilized nation on earth. Hi cinfidered,
he said, that the principles of public law, no longer
allowed of (uch praSic., not even in a date of hof
tility between nations. He trusted, he said, that,
the United States, wh"o, by conditution, could only
adt upon individuals, not upon dates, would never
tatnilh its character by such proceedings—nor ex
hibit t<» the wbrld faeit evidence of depravity, or so
weak a lenfe of regard to (he common principles of
. confidence, good faith, and morality. He expect
ed, he said, the would be,indantly re
jected. /
M r . Hartley hoped this motion would not be
referred. He thought the meafurl a very Improper
one. It differed eiu:eeding]y from the resolution
reported by the committee ; that contemplated a
friendly requeit to the debtor states.to make pay
ment ; but ihe resolution now offered went to coer
cion immediately. liy our treaty with Great-
Britain, bt public fecu<itic3 were guaranteed, and
not to be attached or leized, upon any pretcnce
vv itever. iSlr-iH we then, said he, treat a fitter state
worfe'tfran a "range nation? He hoped so ungene
rous a would not prevail. He had no doubt
but the date of New-York would be inclined to do
v hat was jnit and light ; and if they objected to
pay, .they would doubtless give their reasons for it.
As to the ftite of Delaware, Mr. H. was of opinian
that (he was unable to pay thexbahnce found a
gaina her. He prefnmed {he would state her ina
'jili'.y, and that relief would be granted her. Ths'
tint Hate, perhaps,'did not advance much money
during the war, yet (he furnifhed more than in pro
portion to her number of citizens. He vas there
fore decidedly againd the refutation.
Mr. Livingfton had no obje&ion to the reference;
becaulc he was curious to hear arguments in sup
port ot 1 his new mode of keeping up harmony be
tween the dates and the United States, It would
doubtless require great ingenuity, and introduce a
new kind of morality and of logic, to prove that
to seize upon the property of a date was to culti
vate harmony with it : for, in hit opinion, the
propsfition was contrary to all (principle and fair
conduit.
Mr. Coit was at a lofi to know the intention of
the mover of the present tefolution, whether it was
to forward or defeat the objeiSt in view. If he in
tended to serve the cause, he would make use of the
fame homely adage in refpedt to him, that he had
done with refpeft to another gentleman, that " he
leaped before he came to the flile."—The original
refelution, he said, was merely to call upon lite
dates for payment ; but to talk about Seizing their
property, was to suppose they wculd not pay. The
gentlemen of New-York, it was true, had said
much againd thejudiceof the debt but they were
not authoriled to ;tt in the business. Had they
afl<ed for the money ? No. Was it proper, there
fore, in this of the buiincfe, 10 lake such a
dep as was then proposed ! It was even a very feri
ou» queliiwn to determine, whether, in any cafe,
they Ihould be autiiorifed to seize their fundi.
Mr. W. Smith hoped the refutation would not
be committed. He thought they (hould hare more
confidence in the date of New-York, than to sup
pose it would refule to pay its debts. He belicv
ed they would not refufe. Such a IKp at any time
would require much ferrous confederation before it
was adopted. The measure was particularly level
led at the ffste of New York, because if was the on
ly state in that fittiation. Even-were they to refufe
Uj pay, he had great' doubts whether it would be
proper to ittze- ttteir property. The meagre pro-,
posed by the rep rt was moderate, and equal to all
the dehlpr dates, which the mode now offered was
not.
Mr. G ) urn laid the arguments of the gentle-
IT: n from Si. Carolina, were i«thcr againd the re
"folu i«r< itltll, than againd the propriety of cum
liiituiy it, '.)««#£ Uk gentleman's arguments was
not Jaunded in fast. He had said that the measure
fid affcrr New-York only. But of the fix debt
■ : 3, feur of them' had property in the funds
of the United St- es ; two of them had more than
they owed. Pejinfylvania had fix times as much
n the run .: as 1' was reported to ewe ; therefore
(lie meature could not be singular iowards New-
V >k
t . , Mr. G. said, heconfidered that when a re
mstton w i hid upon the table, the only argument
ft cot. mitting it mud be, that it was evident
i:-)g!y imprudent and improper. As to this
rt.'ohr si betag proper, or improper, prudent or
iri'pruccni, he could not fay, because not under
consideration ; but he thought there was nothing
so glaiingly improper in it, as to prevent difcufli
on.
He said he 1 had only Heard one thing which was
an objection to the motion being committed, which
was from the gentleman from New York. He said
the mealure was difgraceful, and such as woirid not
be adopted by one hodile nation towards another.
That gentleman, Mr. G. said, should recoiled! one
thing. Supposing that it would be difgraceful to
seize the ptoperty ef individuals in the public funds,
on account of any piifcondndt of that nation, yet
there was nothing difgraceful in the measure nbw
proposed. That gentleman had said that no nation
at war would seize the property of thair enemy.
Did nc not know that England had seized all
:® French property which they could lay their hands
upon. Here 1 was a state, he said, owed them a
sum of money, and the measure proposed was, to
tffke their property in the funds to pay it. He
-thought there was no difficulty in the cafe, if they
3 supposed the tranfa&ion, to happen betwixt itrdivi
J duals. If a person had hid mortey in his hands,
. and at the fame time owing him money, he (hould
at leatt discuss the matter in his own mir.d, whe
e ther he would let him have t&e money before he
r paid him what he owed. All that was asked, he
h said, was that the matter (hould oe discussed ; if it
; was found improper, it would of course be rejeftej.
Mr, Coit thought there was some differeucc be
u twixt the resolution before them being referred to
a committee of. the whole, and the committee upon
J the fubje£l of the balances.
Mr. S. Smith said, before quell ion was put,
h ha wiihed to fay a few words on the fubjefif. G en "
e tlemcn might fay they would lay hands 011 the pro
c perty of the state of New York. The gentlemen
. fri>m thence had said, that date fliould not pay the
| debt. But Maryland, he fqid,. would pay ; and
r (he depended on the iwiereft of her (lock in the
funds of the United States to p3y her ciril lift. If
j they chose to seize the funds of New-York, why
y fliould they leize those of Maryland ? Maryland,
r he said, was every year purchaiing frefe dock. At
this time, he believed, Maiyland had money to lay
0 out in these docks. A resolution fcf this kind, he
,f said, would make it poffibleJor the United Stales
. to seize the property of dates without right. He
thought payment (hould firft be aflced. Until this
was donej they (hould not take a dep of this kind
e which would have a tendency to defttoy the public
r faith. He hoped, therefore, that the resolution
n would not be committed, as ke would not have it
a supposed possible that the United States would at
_ anytime seize property which had been lodged fer
. security in their hands.
Mr. Nicholas said if the motion could have the
J effedt the gentleman mentioned, be would withdraw
e it. He thought it might be so modified as that
e such an effect Could not even be supposed H«
. said he had heard no obje£iens to hi* motion which
t had had any weight with him. He should not, as
3 had been insinuated by the gentleman from Naw
j York, use either new logic or fine words; but it
. was his opinion the measure would prevent the paf
-1 fions of the people from being raised ; as it was
. not likely that men (hould embedy their Force,
when it could have no effect. He did not think it
• was proper to interfere with the proptrty of Mary
s land. He meant this measure only as an eventual
. security.
The motion was put and negatived, 42 to 3J.
The house then went into a committee of the
. whole on the original report, Mr. Muhlenberg in
the chair, when
M'\ Read hoped the resolution would be agreed
| to. He laid he had attended to all the objections
1 which had been made to the measure, and they did
• not appeal to him to have any real weight. They
. were principally these.: It was said by some the
. debt was not justly due. that the lule of appor
tionment was not what it ought to have been ; and
• that it was not iB the power of the United States
■ to enforce payment of the debts. The resolution
, was alfooljeited toon the ground of policy.
With relpeft tothe judise of the fettlementi he
did not believe that the debtor dates would pre
tend that tfie debts were not justly due, and there
fore ihe arguments on this head were of no weight,
| a»they ought not to anticipate such a conduct.
. With refpefit to the power to coerce, it was frivol
ous in the extreme to talk of this. It was suppos
ing the debtor dates to object to the demand,
whereas they pretended bo such thing. He believed
the debtor dates w mid pay. With refped\ to the
policy of the measure, it was his opinion that there
was no better policy in either dates or individuals
than to pay their debts, if bur government, he
said, was founded upon erroneous principles, vicious |
mei.furcs might be rieceffary; but so long as it was
founded on equal rights and privileges, there could 1
be no founder policy than to auke ju.lice auU equi
ty our guide.
It had been supposed thtt tha state of New-York
would not pay her debt j that she would herftlf
less friendly to the union, lei's federal, than others.
He did not believe this, believed the state perfectly
federal. Would not the fame argument fall upon the
creditor states ? Were theytooaiit tailing upon the
ri btor states, would not the creditor dates be disappoin
ted by these debts not being paid ? Would rt not have
a tendency to make them less friendly, lets federal,
were they to be called upon for money which the debt
or states ought to have paid ?
Air- R. said it was clear, upon the principles of po
licy and juflice, the application ought to be made at
this time. The longer perfons'negledfed to pay any
just debt, the more unwilling they were to pay, and
the difficulty of recovering it, increased in proportion to
the delay.
In refpeff to the state of Maflachufe'tts, which he had
the honour to reprefi,nt, it was one- of tile creditor
Hates. It was at present burdened with very large
debts, contracted in support of the war. per
sons expeffed, and perhaps the state in general, that
their accouut would be allowed, ihe Jrijount was
1,100,000 dollars. They supposed this sum would be
paid by the dobtor dates, and if it were not paid, it
would make a direil tax very unpopular with them.
There had been Jn objection urged by the gentle
man from New-York ( Mr. Williams) which he tho't
h«d not been noticed. He said there had beeu large
emigrations from other states into that state liace the
settlement of the accounts, which had so increased
their population, as to have greatly increased their debt,
that being edimatei on a scale of population. If it
was true that such an emigration ha 4 taken place, and
he expected it was, it enritfheu the state of New-York,
and enabled her to pay the debt. The people knew
when they went into that state that they would have to
bear a part of the debt. They had left creditor states
and by these emigrations of young and enterprrzing
men, those states were impaired, the aged and infirm
being left behind.
Mr. R. concluded by faying, that it was evident the
money was due, and it was proper requisition should be
made for payment, and he doubted not it would be
complied with.
Mr. Freeman-said he was in favour of the resolution.
It was Agreed on all hands that revenue was wanted,
and the people in the creditor states were extremely
diflatisfied that the debtor states had not yet paid their
balances. Indeed, he could fee nojuftice in calling
upon the creditor states for a direst tax to pay the
interest of a debt due from certain states in the union.
[7# it CtniiautJ.] »
CONTINUATION OF
Late Foreign Intelligence.
From the Lor.dan Gazette Extraordinary.
Parliament-Street, November 3, 1796.
A dispatch, of which the following is a copy»
was this day received by the right honourable Hen
ry Dundas, one of his raajefty's principal feorefa
rieS of state, from rnajer-geriaral Craig, command
ing his majelly's troops at the Cape of Good Hope,
dated Camp on the (bora of Saldanha bay, August
19, 1796.
SIR,
1 have great fatisfa&ion in reportingto you the
event of an attempt which has been made by the
enemy, and which has termjnated to the honor of
his majefly's arms, in the entire capture of the
squadron of Dutch ships of war, deltined for the
purpose of retaking this settlement.
Having made every arrangement within my
means, by the establishment of a imall poll, and
the laying the road by a fufficient number of the
few men which 1 had been able to mount, tor
watching Saldanha bay, I received a report an the
3d inttant, transmitted in fourteen hours, that line
ships had appeared off that coast o« the preceding
afternoon, which I immediately communicated to
vice admiral fir George Keith ElphinJtone. By
the fame report there appeared to at the Itrongeit
probability that his majelly's brig the Hope, had
been captured by them ; and as there was no fur.
ther account of them the next day, I concluded
that the information which they had received, by
that means,of our lirength here, had induced them
to continue their route, and that they would Hand
far to the westward before they doubled the Cape,
to avoid fir George's Sect, which had put to sea at
soon as was poflible after the receipt of the intelli
gence.
In order, however, to omit no precaution, I sent
up lieutenant M'Nab, with a few mounted m«n, to
watch the bay more narrowly ; and from him 1 re
ceived a report, on Saturday night the 6th inliant,
at twelve o'clock, that the fame number of ships
which had formerly been reported, had anchored
that morning in the bay, and that theie was no
doubt of their being enemies. I 101 l not a moment
in fending dire&ions to Simon's Town, from
whence, by the general willingness and activity
which prevailed amongst all renks, five vefTels win e
dispatched by nine o'clock, in quefl of the admiral,
with the information.
As it fortunately happened that the 2jth and
27th light dragoons, with part of the 19th, and
the whole of the 33d regiments, were in Simon's
bay, 1 eould be under no apprehenfiou for the fafe
ty of the coiony from any force which could be lan
ded from nine ships of war. It became, however,
ao ebje&'ef infinite importance to the welfare of
the settlement to pi event any body of the ensmy
from throwing therpfelvej into the coantiy. At
the fame time the security of the Cape Town be
camc jB object of particular attention, both from
the reasonable expetlation, that the enemy would
not have ceme with filch a force without a profpeft
of a jundioa with forae other armament, and from
the possibility of the admiral being prevented from
doubling the Cape by the North Wctlerly winds
which vfaal'y prevail qt this season, and which
would carry the enemy infix hours from Saldanha
to Table bay. It was therefore with particular
fatisfattion that I found myfclf poffciled of a force
adequate to both these objects.
No time was lolt in making the neeeffary ar
rangements in a country totally unused to a move
ment of this nature, The tiooptt began their march \
on Sunday morning, nectfTarily by divisions, on ac
count of fyhfiflenceC The BUrgher Senate was af
lembled, to whom I «<pofed rr.y intentions, to
which they exprefied the moll ready compliance.
Waggons Were every where demanded by them,
and fyrnifhed with chearfulnefs. Cavalry was ne
eeffary, but the appointments ©f the 28th wct\j or*
board a Alio which had failed in quelt of the admi
ral. Thole of the 25th were alio on board a Ship
in Sifnon's bay, and we had not above fifty
The appointments were brought up, and I did not
scruple, on such an occafibn, to require all faddle
horfes without exception to be brought in, which
were valued by two members of the court of jus
tice, and (wo officers of the 28th dragoons, ana
paid for on the spot to the entire fatisfattion of the
owners.
By these means, fir, leaving major-general Doyle
in the command of the iroops at and about Cope
town, amounting to near 4000 men, r.nd briga
dier-general Campbell in the immediate command
of the town, I, on the morning of the i(sth inft.
leached Saldanha bay, at the headof the advanced
guafd, confining of the light-infantry, a body of
Hottentots, and fifty of 1114.25 th light dragoons,
a (filled by brigadier-general M«.Benzie, the remain
der of whefe corps, confiding of the grenadiers, the
78th and Beth battalions, fifty more of the 25th,
and one hundred of the 28th light dragoom, in all
about 2500 men, with two howitzeis, and nine
field pieces, arrived theie also iB an hour after.
In ihe mean time the "admiral had • returned to
I'alfe bay, and on there Veceiving the firfl accounts
of the enemy being in Saldanha bay, had pu* to
sea again with the utmost expedition ; and we had
the fatisfaClion, from ihe heights from whence we
defceiioed to the shores of the bay, to fee him, with
all his fails crowded, advancing-with a. fair wind
diredlly tu tha mouth of the harbour, though flill
at some diflance. One of the enemy's frigates,
which lay near the fliore to cover their watering,
cannonaded us very briskly as we defceuded' the *
heights, though without effeil, and/we returned
their fire with as little, having at that time only
three pounders with us; a howitzer being
brought up, a few shells were thrown wi.h great
precilion by captain Robertfon, who would prol.a
bly foon'have destroyed her; but perceiving that
our fleet then entering the bay, and :lfat there
was no poifibility of her escaping, I defilied from
firing, thinking it more for his majefty'a intereil
that fhe-fyould share the f£te of tl\e remainder of
the squadron, the capture of which appeared to me
inevitable, tuaii that we should the destroyingher, ftom a vain punsilio of obliging her to flrike
to us We then employed outfelves in making the
neoefTary difpofitinnt for affording such afisftance as
rfciaht be in our p >wer, in the event of the
cy of the enemy obliging the admiral to attack
them, as well as such as \aouM be expedient in cale
tney should run heir lliips on shore, neither of
wliie , however, I thought probable.
1 was accordingly informed, by a letter from fir i
George the following morning, that the whole had
surrendered themselves to him. ,
The means by which this event has been actom
plifhed, fir, has not afforded any npportanity to his
majelly's troops of displaying that bravery in his i
service, which I am consent they would have 1
(hewn, had the occasion presented itfelf: but if thr i
Btmoft alacrity and chearfulnefs, under almost eve i
ry privation, except that of meat, during a march i
of nine r miles, through so barren 3 country that 1
> there exid but five houses in the whole line, have 1
any mrpit, 1 can with truth present them to his ma- i
jelly's notice. ,
This march. Sir, has never yet I believe been at- 1
fempted by any body of troops, Jiowever small, and,, ,
permt me to allure yon, has been attended with such
uncommon difficulties, that it never could have been
aecornphfhed but by the difj;lay of the qualities I have
mentioned in the troops, and a union of extraordinary
exertions ir. all the departments coneerned. In these
all have equal claim to my acknowledgements ; but
I cannot dispense with particularizing the intelligence
and afiivity -with which, regardless of the uncommon
fatigue which attended it, Jieutenant M'Nab, of the
98th regiment, with about twenty of his mounted men
performed the service allotted to him of uatching the
enemy, and preventing any communication with them,
from the firft moment of their coming into the Bay,
till our arrival.
It is, Sir, with very particular fatisfa&ioa that I ,
kave further to report, that P have received, on this
eceafion, every possible assistance from his Majelly's
fubjefls of the colony.
The Bnrgher Senate have discharged the duty impof
edapon them with the greatest readiness, impartiality
and aflivity, whilst their requisitions and orders 011 the
inhabitants for their waggons, cattle and horses, have
been complied with, with a chearfulnefs which could,
I am fatisfied, only proceed from a convii3ion of the
preference to be given of his Majesty'» mild and pater
nal government over the wild system of anarchy and
eonfufion from which they were furnilhing the means
of being effe&ually defended.
This will be delivered to you, Sir, by my Aide-de-
Camp, Captain Bayaes, who ha< been in this country
finee the firft arrival of his majesty's troops under my
command, and to whose intelligent and atftive affift
ancel have been, on every nfc.ifion, highly indebted.
I beg leave, Sir, rnoft humbly to recommend him to
his majesty's notice.
I have the honor to be, with the greatest refpe<sl,
Sir, &c. J. H. CRAIG.
£To be eontin'ied.j
For the Gazette or the Ignited States.
PARTY SPIRIT.
The numerous virulent pieces that pass between
men of different parties, cannot but be disgusting
to every unbiassed reader ; and indeed these elfufions
of spleen have beccmr so common, that they seem
now to be generally palled over without regard, and
serve erily to fill the corner of a newspaper without
any-benefit to those who read them.
The liberty of the press, which ought to be
prized by every freeman, Ihonli at the fame time
be used with such moderation as to exclttdc all un
necelfary satire. One of the great parpefes of a
free press is to secure tlje liberty of a country, in
any critical time, by a candid and ingenious display
of principles, and to w»rn its citizens of any Jaagers
that may chance to threaten them from ambitious
t»en ; but it is sometimes so much abused by the
little politicians of a country, that many who are
otherwise welt disposed to the public welfare, are
led to wish that 110 such liberty of the press existed.
This is not indeed a wish cherished by myfclf, nor
even by a majority of society ; bat luch intemper
ance will sometimes be attended with this conse
quence, and if these fierce political champions have
ttally the happiness of their country fa much at
heart as they pretend, it might afford some induce
ment for :t hem to fopprefs their acrimony, to con
fidtr how easily mankind are sometimes prevailed
upon to give up a privilege for the fake of fafety,
and how freqaently nations are epflaved by ambi
tious men, who take advantage of their evils to
eaforce the necessity of more restraint.
1 have been led to these remarks, Mr. Printer,
>r the numerous " hints'* and "communications"l
that have tlruck my attention upon taking up a
newspaper. If the motive of these writers be ta
refotm errors, and do away prejudice, there is to be
sure fottie excuse for there ; but fti-H we are left to
lament that such inadequate means should be used,
as the method they take has quite a contrary tend- j
enpy ; and the breach between different parties, !
instead of being dosed, is made wider. The natural
pride of man induces him to rejeil advice, even tho'
hekuowsit to be given with good intentions; but
when it is accompanied with insult, it will lead him
to embrace the mod palpable errors with more cager
ttefs than he did before, and to difleminate them
amongst others, iif order to vindicate his own un
dei (landing in having firft admitted fhem-
But I am inclined to'think, fir, that their vietfi
are different. They probably mean nothing more
than to >;ive to the public lome bright fpecimcn of
wit, w power -of sarcasm; bat'let me ask any one
j»ho thus frivoleufly wastes liis time and paper,
whetlier he htmfelf has ever received any pleaftire
from l:he perusal of similar pieces ? If their objedt
is to entertain, they should be more pointed ; for no
person is amused by general censure. Is any criti
cism agaiirft ar'tjjoerals or demoirats (tetmi that
cetirprife great numbers) calculated to please a
reader who undcrftands not,to whom they are par
ticularly _aimed ? 1 believe not, and if .the writers
who arc so ready to (hew their smartness, would
apply the enquity to their own feelings, the event
wou.ld be fufficient to baffle their hopes of diftinc
tio»i from this source, and spare the public the talk
of <perufwg compoGtions that yield neither pleasure
nor information.
In satire that is personal, the cafe it different ;
i#ir here we are jfcrhaps acquainted with the cha
mbers.; and we are gratified in watching the ar
rows of reproach that fly from fide to fide, becautft
we know the objedt en whom they fall, and their
fate is iateteliin^.
Thus it appears, Mr. Pripter, that no msr> ought ■
to present his eff.iys to his fellow citizens, unless it
to communicate something valuable, or some
thing pleasing. For this rftfon I have always been
■ed todefpife the produ&ions of a writer, that denis
in mere abuse without argument, a«d look upon it
as nothing more than a prostration of the purposes
for which the freedom of ttie prefj is designed. I
may by this means indulge my own malignity against
a particular party, but cannot hope to convince
other men ; and for what other purpose is it tha'
I publiih my reientment ? The man who wishes to
aveuge an injury received from his neighbour, mud
expose the baseness that dictated it, otherwise his
hearers cannot join in his enmity. If he wi.Ties to
recommend any properfed system or plan, let him
trace its operation, and designate its effedts j for it
is necessary that the public, to whom he offers his
opinions, be made sensible of their justness before
they adopt them, and without this proctdure not
even his name, however relpetlable, will succeed ia
recommending it, mach less his anonymous senti
ments, delivered without argument and without
order.
PACIFICUS.
PHT LADELPHIAy
FRIDAY EVENING, JANUARY 10, 1797.
Marhed, on Saturday evening, 31ft u!t." by the
Rev. Mr. Han del I, Mr. foHn Stem to the amiable
Miss Polly Kuhn, of New-Jersey.
, on Monday evening, 9th inft, by Michael
Hillegas, Esq. Mr. Samuel Archer, merchant, of
this city, to Miss Elizabeth West, of Mount-
Holly, New-Jersey.
an Monday evening, 16th inft. by 'John
Bartholemew, Efq Mr. John Boyles to Miss Mag
dalen Ruth, both of Chester county, Great-Valley.
, on Tuesday evening, 17th inft. by Jacob
Servoft, Esq. Mr. Benjamin Chapman to Miss
M t"ROY "Gt LP IN, bo'th of this city.
—. last evening by the Rev. Dr. Rogers, Mr.
William MA'GHCBsof Greeneftjurg,' Weftmorelaad
county, Penafylvania, to Mrs. Sa&AH Barnss, of
this city.
Mr. FENNELL.
( The readings and recitations of this gentleman
may be con fide red as a school of rhetoric atid mo
rality. . Young particularly will derive gteat
advantages ftom an attendance. To tf ad well,
is an endowment, as rare, as it'is valuable, and is
to be acquired peihaps only from good .example?.
Mr. Feni-ell has not perhaps been equalled in t is
line. We are pleased to observe that he has re.
duced the price of tickets which will admit chil
dren, to 25 cents.
This will donbtlefs induce parents and guardians
to improve the opporttinity—A better never has,
and never tpay occur of acquiring that fpeeies of
improvement which will kli thiough life.
. , NEW THEATRE. -
The entertainment announrrd this evening of
the Mountaineers, and Seeing fs Believing, promile'
a'rich and various repast of sentiment, humur and
taste.
It is reported that three English frigates have arrived
in the Chesapeake.
Edward Livingfton, Efq is re-elefled member of
Congress for the state of New-York, hy a majority of
550 votes.
Major Pierce Butler was he'd up as one. of He
e!e<Slors from the state of South-Carolina, but declined
ferviag, we are well informed, as the members of the
Legislature who appoint them, required of the candi
dates to pledge themselves to vote for Thoma« Jeffer
fon and Thomit Pinckney. [Akrr a.J
Ext raft of a letter from captain J. H. W. dated
at Cape-Francois, Dec. to, 1796, to his own
ers in Philadelphia.
" I have been detained here on account ,of a
' law suit with a man who robbed me of go-»ds and
cash to the amount of abont one thousand dollars.
No'withllanding every proof 1 cannot get any fa.
tisfaftion, but on the contrary my life is threatned,
and captain B's likewise, he being an evidence in
my favor. The adminillratian take all American
cargoes, which come here by force, without any
mode of payment whatever, and likewise take all
' American velfels to and from English parts, and
condemn them without a hearing."
Extract of a letter from Cape Francois, to a house
in thij city, dated December zo, 1796.
! " Th'» government seems determined tu lay eve
ry obstacle in the channel of American commerce,
it now not only ref(ifes paying old debts, but con
-1 traifts (if it can be so called) new 0114s, without
so much as a promise -of ever paying—its armed
- i vessels have sent in all Americans, hound to or ftom
f> | any British ports, either in this island or real En
glifti colonies, which have been candemned, \yith
out so much as the ceremonies of a trial ; such as
S have come here with their own accord, kave had
c their cargoes taken by force, some have abandoned
f their vessels and gone home, depending, as I fup
e pose, upon the insurers for indemnification, others
1 whose cargoes have been partly taken, stay, but
e to no purpose : In addition to this, a dHty is laid
* (as they fay by orders from France) on the impOrt
-0 alien of gxads imported in American bottoms,
■ which is high on every . thing, except feecf, pork,
1 and flour—thefe are tree ;as the duty on dry goods
a is ascertained by weight, it is extremely unequal,
- on the fined linen one dollar per piece, on Ruilia
s sheeting two and a half dollars per piece, both be-
ing 105 Is. p.-I®oth. All kinds of provisions are
t high and in demand, hut cannot be brought with
- out falling into the hands of admiuiftration."
k _
e Last evening arrived here by land from Cape May,
Mr. M'Kim of Baltimore, wha, having betn robbed
. of his property by the French at Cape Francois, where
his vessel was carried in, h«ing taken on her passage
r from one French port to another—he took his paflage
in the Ichooner Amy, Capt, Woodman, for this port,
who left Cape Fraflcois on the 44th of December, and
"" arrived off our bay on Sunday last ; when, being told
that «ur river will frozen, Cipt. Woodman landed
■ Mr. M'Kim, and flood for New-York. By him we
I:arn, that on the 15th December a cutter arrived at
the Cape in 3? days from France.
He alio- mentions that the coast of St. Domingo
I warms wir-h privateers, from one gun upwards, who
take and fend in every American they can lay hands
oh under various pretences.
Among the veflels sent into Gape-Francois and con
demned, are schooner Catherine, Story, and brig
, Lillibridge, both of Philadelphia; and the
brig Nancy, May, and schooner Z«phyr, Hanford,
of New-York.
The ihip AAive, Whitehoufe, from Norfolk to
Jamaica ; the brig Difyatch, Lunt, of Newburyport,
from Port.au-Prince to Portland, with 150 hogsheads
of molafTes; and a schooner belonging to Charleston,
with ballast, from Jaquemel, are all carried into Port
de-Paix; and into Leogane they have carried %o tfr
30 of our veflels.
The (hip Liverpool Packet, from Savannah, for
this port, passed our capes for New-York on Monday
lift, as (he found the river froien.
COM MVNICA TIONS.
The traitors by whose advice the Frenek.continue
to feiae on our commtrce, now tell us we deserve this
for having tamely fuffered the British to do the like;
and have the impudence in the fame breath to fay we
cannot heip ourlelves: jigamji the Republic, they fay,
<we can d» nothing.
SEASONABLE REMARK.
A can'ing set of men are at wotk t* impose si
lence on the independent language of the country
refpefting its violated rights, which at last, though
very late in the day, iflTues through the newspapers.
We *re told the power of France is net to be re
filled and must be foethed, courted and teneiliated.
We mull not use any language but conciliation, Jcc.
The answer to this hypoorify is plain and (hort ;
plundered men will complain and have a right —
nor can the editors of newspapers Another itJ
When Britain seised fon<- millions, these very men,
who now speak in whispers, would have thundered
from the cannon's mouth. Eight or perhaps ten
millions ate leized by France, now they fay suppli
cate. Inconfillency ! But the chief remark to be
made is this—the belief of the Diredtory that we
arc more French than American, has milled them
to aft in this violent way. \ The American rene
gadoes in Paris, and their afloeiates the club here,
have made the French imagine that all America
would turn Jacpbins and the government would
tumble dawn into the very miri, if they, the
Frertcb, would threaten a and if that
foiled would plunder the merchants who promoted
the Britilh treaty. This being the cafe, it is the
daty of the crirts «n every real patriot to (hew a
merited f»pport of the governme.it—an indignant
lenfe of the injury, and a spirit that will a(k for
i rsdrefs. thougii it nay refrain from either uienace6
'or reprisals. If the Dire&ory of France should
fee as they mull, that our people are friends to out
government and no longer their dupes, they, will
change their fyllem which was produced by, and
founded os,. jjthe miflake falfe-heartcd Americans
have led them into.
House of ReprefentahDft of the United States.
Thtufday, January 19, 1797.
The following communication was received from
the Prefrdent of the United States ; together with very
voluminous documents therein referred to, which af;er
some debate on the propriety of the measure, were or
dered to be printed without being read :
Gentlemen of the Senate,
and of the House of Feprefentitives,
At rhe opening of the present fcflion of Congress, I
mentioned that some circumllam.cn of an unwelcome
nature had lately occurred in relation to France ; that
our trade had fuffered and was fuffering extenGve in
juries in the Well-Indies from th« cruisers and agents
of rhe French Republic ; and that communications had
been received from its minister here which indicated
danger of a further diilurbar.ee of our commerce by its
authority, and that were in other refpe&s far from
agreeable ; but that I refervid for a fpecral meflage a
more particular commuuication on this interesting fub
je<S—This communication I now make.
The complaints of the French minister embraced
mofl of the tranfa&ions of our government in relation
to France, from an early period of the present war ;
which therefor* it was neceflary carefully to review.
A collection has been formed of letters and papers rela
ting tfrthofe tranfaflions, whieh I now lay before you,
with a letter to Mr. Pinckney, our minister at Paris,
containing an examination of tke notes of the French
minister, and fu«h information as I thought might be
ufefnl to Mr. Pinckney in any further representations
he might find necessary to be made to the French go
vernment. The immediate object of his million was
to make to that government fucli explanations of the
principles and conduA of our own, as by manifeftiug
our good faith might remove all jealousy and.difcen
tent, and maintain that harmony and good understand
ing with the French Republic which has been my con
ftaut folisitude to preserve. A government which re
quired only 1 knowledge of the truth to juftify its mea
lures, could not but be aftxious to have this fully and
frankly dilplayed.
Go: WASHINGTON.
United States, January 19, 1796.
The house went into a committee of the whole on
the fubjeiSl of future revenue, Mr. Dent in the chair,
when a long, but some what irregular debate took place,
in the cotirfc of which two or ttireoPdifferent amend
ments were proposed and negatived. At length the
quellion on the relolution for laying a tax'on la>id was
put and carried by a considerable majority, there being
56 in favour of it, and 54 in favourof that for laying
a tax on (laves. The committee rose, reported the
relolution, and obtained leave to fit again. The house
relumed, and amotion was made to take up the rcfo
lutions, but it was negatived 47 to 37.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, January 19.
Arrived, fcheoncr Hawk, Hunt, Barbadoes, 27
clays.
Lift of veflels left, at Barbadoes at ft December,
by captain Hunt, arrived yeftercay.
Ship Mercury, captain 'Roberts, belonging to
Bollon—brought in by an Englith privateei—her
trial had not yet commenced, but some part of the
cargo being perishable, captain Rabertt had a per
mit for landing it.
Skip Minerva, of New-London, captain Hu!f,
with the I«fs of almost *11 his eattlj.
Brig Joseph, of Alexandria, ca^Taylor.
Brig Three Friends, of Bo(l9n, capt. Gilraore.
Brig Nabby, of New-Lnndon, capt. Gardiner.
Schooner Jftipy and Hannah, from New-Lon
don, with thelofjof her inainmall, after a paflage
of 28 days.
Schooner R-obirifon Crufae, Wilmington, N.
C. captain Charch-
Schoener Ely, from Kenneheck, capt. Drum
mond.
Captain Hunt yiforras, that when he left Bar
badoes, every thing wa» peaceable and quiet among
tha windward islands. The people were anxiously
expeiSing the arrival of the packet from England,
ronfirtning the news of a between that king
dom and France. The English frigates ard priva
teers, from their different settlements to windward,
had taken a number of very valuable Spanish prizes
and sent them into port. \
Several French veflisla of force were cruising t»
windward of Barbadoea, and had taken four or five j
Blips from England, and several American velTels
with previsions bound to Batbadoee, and sent theu
into Gvudaloupe.
ON TUESDAY NEXT WILL BE PUBLISHED,
Porcupine's
POLITICAL CENSOR,
Fait DECtMBRR, 1796.
CONTAINING
Remarks on the Debates in Congress, particularly v
on the timidity discovered by the House of Represen
tatives in their language towards the insolent French. •
, A"0,
A Litter to the infamous Tom Pains,
In answer to his brutal attack on the character and
condudt of General Waihingtun.
January 20. -
WANTED,
A middle-aged Woman Servant,
Who is a good Seajnftrefs, and capable of taking
forar charge in a family. None need apply without
good recommendations.
* Enquire at No. 88, Spruce-ftrect.
January so X
TO THE PUBLIC.
JAMES <?tREY, No. 83.North Second Strfft, and
JOHN MARKLAND, No. 91, South Front Street,
Printers, have entered into partnerQ'.ip, under the firm
of CAREY & MARKLAND, for ths of pub
lishing an Evening Newspaper In this City, under the
title of
The Daily Advertiser,
The firft number of which will appear on WEDNES
DAY the firft ef MARCH next.
PROSPECTUS of th, WO R K.
I. Besides the usual feledtiSa ot intelligence, foreign
anddomeltic, The DAILY ADVERTISER will be en
riched with fech other articles as may tead to the im
provement and rxteufioc of our commerce, agriculture,
manufactures, arts and feiencea, 3cc. &e. nor fliall the
less profitable, though highly pleating walks of roblTC
LiTERATURe, be wholly unfrequented ; as its pages will
occasionally be variegated and enliv.ncd from th« {tores
ef hiltory, travel, biography, anecdote, &<-. as well as
the lighter effufions of fenlimeot, wit, humour, and
pleasantry, in mole and verse
11. The DAILY ADVERTISER will be open for
caadid and liberal difculßon, on both fides of every po
litical question which may interest the public mind. It
will likewise contain such extracts frompartj papers and
pamphlets, oa both fides, as may fcrve to develop the
plans and condttil of each —This part of the gent ■**1 de
lign, should it even fail of effecting its prime objeit, that
of lefiening the fervor of political zeal, will, at least,
difleminate that general knowledge of the best interafte
of society and the public weal, so eflential to every citi
zen of a free and enlightened country.
111. The DAILY ADVERTISER will eontaifl a full
and regularly digested MARINE LIST formed upon tha
plau of tile London LLOYD'S LIST, and a variety of 0-
ther commercial intelligence; so that the mercantile read
er may obtain at a {ingle glance that information which
he has hitherto been obliged, and often in vain, to seek
thro'a large and confufed mass of mifeellaneous matter.,
IV. The pages of this' paper will he numbered, and tho
Suhfcribers furniflied yeaily, with A COMPLETE AND
COPIOUS INDEX—This part of the plan, which will
be faithfully executed, mutt render a volume of tbefc
papers of more value than the original fubfeription.'
Thus have the Editors briefly fketehed out the LEAD
ING FEATURES which lhall mark their intended pub
lication, to which they solicit a (hare of that publie pa
tronage and encouragement without which the moil ju
dicious plau and the greatest exertions mult become e
qually abortive and unprofitable.
To defervethat support which they now solicit, they
will leave nothing uneflayed which may be compassed by
the molt unremitted industry and liberal expenditure.
CONDITIONS OF PUBLICATION.
1. The DAILY ADVERTISER will be neatly and
oorreflly printed in Folio, on fine ror.il paper and with
■new ypes. It will be distributed every day (Sunday
excepted) at the ufaal li&ur in the evening.
The annual subscription will be only fix dollars—
the firft half years fubfoription to be paid on fubferihing
or in three months from the commencement of the paper.
Afterwards to bt paid hilf yearly in advance.
3. Advertisemints will bs confpiuoafly displayed,
carefully corrected, and inserted upon moderate terms.
gj" Until the editors can procure a convenient central
situation to confelidate their bufmefs, they will receivc
fubferiptionsand advertisements at their refpe&ive houfao
Ne. 83, N Second-llreet, and No. 91, S. Front-street,
from the latter of which the paper will be published.
N. B. They will iflue an AVANT COURIER of
the fee, typi, paper, and plan of the Daily Advertiser,
a vyeek or ten days before the publication of the firft
number, which will be diflributed gratis, to enable the
public i»i form a decided opinion on the merits of the
undertaking.
Jan. 19. Taw4W.
TO BE SOLD,
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, coun
ty of Gloucester, and ttateof New-Jersey, contain
ing about one hundred and fifty aeres; a tuitable propor
tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
great part of the arable land is in a high {late of cultiva
tion, and very natural to the produAion of Red Clover.
, On said plantation there is a genteel two-story brick house,
I with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
the whole ; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriago-
I house. The garden is large, and contain, a good collee
! tion of the bell kinds of grafted and isaeculat-d fruit trees j
the orchard consists of about three hundred grafted applo-
I trees. Any person inclined to purchase said premiles, may
be informed »f the terms by applying to
1 ANDREW HUNTER.
J J«lj *9 *Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE D O B S ON,
Mo. 25, South Third-flreet,
Has just reeefved, per Eagle, Capt. fofdick, via Lon
don, an assortment of
Scarlet
Drab / Cloak 4 trimmed with fur and
Purple and ( ermine.
Pearl J
December Ij. §
PROPOSALS,
For carrying the Mails of the United
States,
On the following Pojl Roads, will be reciived until
thejirjl day of Match next inclusive :
, I. From Charleston, S. C. by Jackfonbovo' and Coofa
hatchy, ts Savannah, twice a week. Receive Mail
at Charlsftpn every Tuelday and Friday by 6, P. M. and,
deliver it at Savannah the next Friday and Monday, by 8
A. M. Returning, reccive the Mai! at Savannah eve
Saturday, by 6, P. M. and W<dnefday by 6, A. M. and
deiiver it at Churlefton the next Tuel'day and Friday
by noon.
Prope,fals for this route luill be received by the pojl-majitr at
Savannah.
2. From Coofahatchy to Beaufort onte a week—
Receive the mail at Coofahatchy every Tfiurfday by 6,
r. M. and deliver it at Beaufort by noon on Friday. Re
turning, leave Beaufort every Friday by 3, p. it. and arrive
at Coofahatchy on Saturday by 8 , a. m.
Proposals for carrying the mail on this routa will be re
ceived by the poft-mafler at Beauiort.
Note 1. The Poll-mailer Genera! may alter the times
for the arrival and departure of the mails at any time du
ring the continuance of the co-ritra&s, he previously stipu
lating an adequate cempebfation for any extra expeucd
that may be ocoafioned thereby.
Note 2. Fojr every hours delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in arriving after the times prescribed by con
trad, the contractor (hall forfeit one dollar, and if the
delay continue until the departure of any depending mail
an additional forfeiture of five dollars fh?ll be incurred.
Note 3. Should any pyfon matin,; pmpofals delire an
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe
eified, he mu(! state the alteration desired and the price
he will carry the mail for with and without such alte
ration.
Note 4. The contraiSs are to be in operation on the
Srft day of April next and to continue until the 30th of
September in the year 1800.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Pofl Afafler General.
Seneral Ppft Office, >
Philadelphia, Jan. 13,1796.5
*»■»• »6. . d6w.
Davis's Law Book Store,
No 313. HIGH-STREET..
' GEORGE DAVIS announces to his profeffional friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
Union, (hat his late importation of Bv>OKS is now arrang
ed, and ready for Sale, from a fingl® volume to an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, which forfeveral years pait have in so dkttinguifhed a
manner recommended the raft o notice.
Printed Catalogues combining (he mod collec
tion cf the latest Englifti and Jrilb Editions ever imported
into this country, arc pablilhed, and will be delivered giaiis
on application.
Orders addressed to G. D. in writing from any distance
fhali be punctually attended to.
A number of TRUNKS for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient LOFT, near Mai ket Sweet Wharf.
ov.B.
City cf Walhington.
SCHEME of tbe ToTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 2G,000 dollars, .& }
dwelling-house, $ calh 30,000, are J ■'°» 000
I ditto 15,000 & calk 15,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & cadi 10,000 20,000
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
I ca(h prize of 10,000
» do. 5,00 d cach, are ■ 10,000
10 do. i,eoo - - 10,000
ato do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
100 do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. 15 - - 10,000
1,000 do. »o - 20,090
15,000 do. I® - 150,000
16,739 Prizes.
33,261 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollart, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets,.the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the ta »t drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received,foi
any number not lei's than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be erected in the City of Wafnington
Two beautiful designs are already fel»ifted for the entire
fronts on two of the publicfquaresfrom these prawings
it ispropofed toercrl two centre and four corner buildings,
»> soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
the necelTary expenses of printing, the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
Univerlity, to be trccled within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets ar.e
old off.-- I'he money prizes will be payable in thirty days
liter it is fintfhed ; and any prizei for which fortunate
numbers ate not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is closed, are to be confidercd as given towards.,
the fund for the Univerlity ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a ye,ar from the e -.ding of the draw
ing, and to taM up the bonds given as security.
The real Securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
are.held by the Prefidcnt and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than haif the a
mount ol the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment ol
the late Commillioners assisted in the management of the
Hbtel Lottery are requefled to undertake this arduous taQc
second time on behalf ef the public ; a iufficient num
jjr of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that die 1
ierds to a National Utiiverfity and the other federal ob
je<fts may continue to favor the dtfign.
By accounts received from the (liflerent parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have becn,fent for sale, the public are afTured that the
drawing will speedily .commenae, and that the care and
taction unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of
the tickets, has rendered the tocrr fufpeafion indifpenfabla,
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bunk of Columbia ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Oilman; Boflon :
»f John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
Cooper's Ferry. «e
FOR. SA 1 E
As Whitefides' Tea Ware-lloufe,
No. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial r Hyson Skin.
Hyson, C Frefli Teas. < Souchong,
Young Hyson, J , C. Bohea
Pec. 9. 3taw.^m.
dancing school.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open his school ob Mon
day the 3jft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his
Elegant hew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Waluut Streets.
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o'clock
on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
young gentlefnen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evenings 0
the fame days. .
In addition to a number of new cotil!io*s, he means bo
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. Th' firfl pra&ifiag ball to be on Tuesday e
vening, the firfl of November, and to be continued every
Tuesday, during the season.
For terms, &c, enquire at nis house, N«.134, Market
fir eet.
OA. 17. • tthf
CAUTION.
WHEREAS very large and heavy debts are j'jflly
due and ovlng from ineffrs. BlairM'Clenacbar} and
Patiick Meore, of the city of Philadelphia, merchants,
trading; under the firm of Blair M'Clenachan and P.
Moore, 'and from Blair M'Clenachan in his separate
capacity ; to which, by the laws of the land, all the
joint a. well as separate property of the said Gentle
men, is, ought to'be, liable. And whereas
it is clearly and fatisfa&orily afcertitined, that rar.
Blair M'C'.enacbari, of the said firm, has conveyed
away to mr. John H. Hujlon, his son-in-law, to his
daughter, miss M'Clenachan, and to his son, George
M'Clenachan, several large and valuable real eltates,
as well a« coufiderable personal property, in the city
and county of Philadelphia, in the county of Lancas
ter, in the ceuntv of New-Caflje on Delaware, and
elsewhere, with a view, as it apprehended, to 3e
feat the Creditors in the recovery of their just debts.—
Thi» is, therefore, to forewarn all persons whatso
ever, agaiult the purchase from the slid grantees, or
either of them, of any portion of the said real or per
sonal property, as the most vigorous measures will
without delay be taken to render the fame liable to
thejull demands of the Creditors.
By order of the Creditors.
Thomas FitzJimonj,
Philip Nicilin, I
I/aac t'harton, >■ Committee.
Wi:l:am M l Murtrit, I
Samuel IV. Fijher, J
Philadelphia, December 17th, 1796. loth.J
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE caution introduced into the public prints,
warning all persons against purchafiug from the
grant«e«of Blair M'Clenachan, any portion of the
large, real and personal estates he conveyed away to
his fon-in law and so his children was the result of
a deliberation had upon the fubjedl by a general and
numerous meeting of the creditors as well of Blair
M'Clenachan ami P Moore as of Blair M'Clena
chan individually. It was no more than an execu
tion of that trust confided in the fubferibers by
those creditors: a step which it would have been a,
breach of duty and honor in them to have omitted.
The very statement of the fait therefore mull dis
pel the imputation that it was either " precipitate
or vindictive." It originated in a desire to feoure
the property of the debtor as a fund for the pay
ment of his just debts. It was fanftioned by the
advice of council as a measure nccejjary to the fafety
of the creditors. If the advertilement has been
injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
to his own unjulliiiable condutt, not to the fub
feiibers .vho have merely published the truth in
terms as mild as the fait would admit, and who
mean to investigate in a high court of justice the
validity of those purcbafes of which Mr. M'Cle
nachan so confideir.ly speaks.
The fubferibers therefore are bound \>y a sense
of duty to the creditors in general to repeat their
emiiion against purelialing of those grantees or
either of them, and to extead the terms of it to a
purchase from any other persons (if such there be)
to whom Mr. M'Clenachan may have made firailar
conveyance's.
- (Signed) T. FITZSIMONS,
P. NICKLIN,
ISAAC WHARTON,
WILLIAM M'MURTRIE,
SAMUEL W.FISHER.
Phtlad. Dee. 21, 1796.
(Sr Those printers who have been requested to
publish the firil Caution, are desired t publtlh this
also.
Washington Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-lix thousand.
two hundred, and fifty for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, frosi th Fo
tomacto theEaflern Branch Harbour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Via- -1 Prize of ao,ooo dollar*, ao,ooo
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7 last drawn 7
Tickets,each j S>°°° 35»ooo
6 ditto 1,000 6,0d0
10 ditto 400 4_®oo
20 ditto 100 i,OOO
55 ditto 50 2j7s<~>
5750 ditto 12 69,00s
1o be raised for the Ca«al, 26,25®
5850 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
The Commiilioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid a& for the pun&ual payment ©1
the prizes.
Ihe drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, ab soon as th*» Tickets are fdld, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finifhed, shall bel copfidered as relinquifhcd for
the benefit ®f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
Cit of Walhicgton, Feb. 11, §
for Sale,
By the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLI NGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30 •" w&f
Le Breton,
S UR GEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King and Roy/1 Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aflortinent of eve<y thing neceflary
to be used- forthe
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patcpt Mirtoral Teeth, and Human & Tvory Teetk ;
Dentrifice in powder ; Opiate ; exceHent Elixir for
sweetening the mouth and prefcrving the teeth —he
also furnilhes Bruthes and foft Sponges.
*„* He lives in Chefnut-lircet, No. 135, above
Fourtli-ftreet.
November t ts
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY froai the fubferiber on the 13d October,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; ai years
old; abotlt 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mi*ed green
coat, with a green velvet cape oval yellow buttons ;
a Itriped vest ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots jnuch worn. It is probable he may change
his name and dress. He has-been ac.cuftomed to driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for securing him so that the fubferiber may get him
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
Robins Chamberlainti.
Eafton„ Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 §Jmaawtf
Hories taken in,
For the Winter Sea/on,
And fed on clover hay at the Subscribers place, ii
ttiles on the Bristol Road, where good (tabling is pro
vided, and great care will bs taken of them
William Bell.
Nov. 23. ' mwfiwmt-htf.
Samuel Richardet
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia;
The Subscription Room will be furnilhed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, N;w-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principil «om
mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, C6ffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety 1
of French Liquors; together with the usual refreflmients,
will ar all times be procured at the bar. ;
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated witto
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mofl
approved Malt Liquors from London and orher breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and carlieft
productions ef the Season.
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation :s
regularly kept for copveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
at th» bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furiaifiifd, and
the utmoll attention paid to cleanlinef®, and every other
requisite.
£jF* Samuel Richardet will behappy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his pait shall be wanting feo pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguilh
ingly iionored.
Philadelphia, April ig f mwf
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufa&ory, situate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almost new,
on an entirely original conftru&ion, and built of the be(l
materials, and may be set to Work immediately. Persons
whowifhto purchase, are requeued to apply at No 273,
Sourh Second Street. September 13. t t 1 tt
S W A N N'S
Riding School, Horse Academy & Infirmary,
Adjoining the Pbbhc .Square. Market Street.
T. SWANN
RLVURNS his sincere thanks to those gentlemen by whom
lie has been employed, during his residence trf this |City, and
flatters himfelf that the success of his efforts, in the numerous,
obstinate and dangerous diseases in Horses, in which he has
beer, consulted, together with his moderate charges, will fe
ure their future favors and recommendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
/that his Ipapious and commodious premitcs, cre&ed for the
purpoles above described are open lor the reception of pupils
of either lex* who wifhto beinftrudted in the Art of Ridingt,
and the tight method of governing their horses, so asto ride
tnem with ease, clegance, and fafety—their horses wiM be
carefully and expeditioufly broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient tot he will of the riders ; the natural powers
which are Ihut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
Jorth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all thole beauties of a&ion which providence has so bounti
fully beflowed on therm
Also, at his hospital, every diforvier to which the horse is
liable w|ll be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the, above inllitution has never been qneftion
ed, that it has long been warned in this city, gentleman's
Hud will manifeft, and J. Swann as the fir ii eftablifher of
the veierenary art, solicits a*d relies upon the fuppoit of that
public (which he is ever anxious in co enable him to
bring it to perfe&ion. The idea of a fublcriptioa (or tfiat
purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, whp wish to
promote the inftitutioa—the amount of each fubfeription to
be returned by services iri any of the depjrtments he profeffes,
agreeable to the rate of charges slated in his hand bill. Such
fubfeription is now open, and the fignaturcs of many refpeft
able gentlemen already obtained. He therefore injorms his
friends and fu< h Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has pot
the honor of being known, that he shall in a few days take
the liberty of wailing upon them and folicking their support
and protfftion.
N B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladies and
Gentlemenwho wish to be inftrutled.
Nov. 5. tth&f.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
A new method of keeping Bill Books,
Adapted for the ease and convenience of merchants
in general; but particularly for those who are ex
benfively concerned in trade: exhibiting at one
view, all the bills which a merchant may have to
receive or pay, in the course of the whole year,
for each month feparatively. Asd thereby pre
venting the trouble and inconvenience attendant on
the mode now in use, of felediing the bills due in
each month from Ihe promiscuous entries of several
months.
To which is prefixed,
A table (hewing the number of days from any day
any- Bi'onth, to the fame day in any other month.
Philadelphia, printed for and fold by R. CAMP
BELL & Co.
January t tawtf N '
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that pryspofals will be re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
until the expiration oi the firft day of March next en
suing, for thcfupply of all rations which may he required
for the use ©f the United States, fr6m the firft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firil day of May, 1798, both
days inclufiye, at the places and withiA the here*
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at
'Pjefque lfle; at Sandufky Lake, and on Sanduiky
River; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin , at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfon; at Grenville; at
Picque Town and Loramics Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place below Fort
Defiante oh the Miami River to /Lake Erie; at Fort
Steuben ; at Fort MalTac ; at any place from Fort MalTac
to the i'outh boundary of the United States on the river
Mifiiftppi ; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanbn.
If supplies ftiall be required ior any posts or places not
mentioned in this notice, all filch supplies (hull be fur
nifned at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
posts before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed or
between the United States aad the Contractor.
The rations to be fupplicd arc to conftll of the fol
lowing article®, viz.
One pounii two ounces of bread «r flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ouncc® of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whiflccy.
One quart and half a pint of £alt.""\
Two quarts ©f Vinegar, ( .
Two pounds of Soap, ( P er hundrcd ritlon »
One pound of C&ndlet, J
The rations »re to be furniftiod in inch quantities, as that
chare fliall at all times during thefaid term, be fullicieiit
for the coufumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, far the term of fix month* in
advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term of
at lead three months in advance', in good aij d wliolelome
provisions, if the fame lhall be required. If is to bv: un;
derllood, that the ContraSor is to beat the exjence and
rilk df ifTuii.gthefuppliss to the trodps atoach poll, and
that all loflcs sustained by the depravations of an enemy, or
by means of the troops of the United States, ihall be paid
for at the pritc of tiae articles captured or destroyed, on
the depositions of two or more persons of eretjitable cha
racters, and the certificate of a commifltoned ollicer, as
certaining the circumstances of the loss, and the amount
of the at titles for which oompc»fauon shall be claimed
Oliver woLcorr,
Secretary of the Treasury.
By Authority.
'Schuylkill Bridge 'Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. $4,
South Sccond-Jlrcet.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to of
the Legislature ol Pennfylvawia, pjflcd du:ing the lalt
fellion, for building a Stooe Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Bcrks - . Dollars,
t Pri*e of 20,000 Dollars P so,ooo
1 do. of 10,000 do. . . jo coo
3 do - of s>° oo do. . . i s |ooo
4 do, of 2,000 do. )i ]000
to do. of 1,000 do. ... 20,000
39 d °- of 500 do. . . ig.joo
80 do. of 200 do. . . . 16,000
200 do. of 100 do. „ 40,000
300 do. of 50 do. » 15,000
1 do. of 500 do. to be pevdthe poffof- )
for of the firlt drawn 110. $
5 do. of 3,000 do. to be paid possessors /
of the five lad drawh nos 5 15,000
9,400 tie. o i s do. : « 141,000
10,054 Prizes 300,000
io<«46 blanks —»
# 30,00° Tickcts at Ten Dollars 300,00®
AH Prizes (hall be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
fin 1 Aaed, upon the demand of a poifeflor of a fortunate
picket, fubjeft to a deduction of twenty per cent. Ihe
Drawing will commence as foonas the Tickcts are difpof.d
ot, or perhaps sooner. of Which public notice will be -tveni
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William frit man,
Joseph Hirjlcr, Jsmes Diemer, Thomas Dundas,
Jamer May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Graejf,
Sebajlian Miller, Commissioness.
Reading, May the 9th. 1796
rickets in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, to be had at the
above office, where the carlieft inlormation of the draw
ing of the Washington No. 2, and Patterfon X.ottery's.
are received, asid check books for examination and regif.
tering are kept.
1- £ aawtf
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third iWeet,oppofite the national new Bank"
SAMUEL M FR AUNGES and JOHN VAN
into co-partnership, under the firm of
FRAUNCfiS & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commission merchants. They buy and
fell on commission every species of ilock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
'Monet procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds e'
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and.books fettled, in the
molt cbrreift manner. Constant attendance will be given.
They folieit a lhare of the public favor; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmost secrecy ebferved.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
/ JOHN VAN REED.
Philad. Aagaft a 7, 1796. m&wtf
Lottery and Brc»:er'rOffice,
No. 64, South Second strlet?
TCKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, (or fele 4
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
riie late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and regifterino-, for
the City of Washington, No. 1, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information whore
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the lan; New-
Port Long-» Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public
and {us friends, who wifo to purchase or fell Bank Stntk,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
<3cc. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
*** Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottary f#r
sale at len each, which -will be early in
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Augujl 18, 175,6. n>t h
PRINTED BY JOHN FENN 0-
—No. 119 —
CHHSNU T-S TREE T.
[Prise Sight Dollars p«r Annum.]