(gazette of tjc States, AND Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1*494.]
For Sale,
♦gVgW. The fine and remarkably faft
Virginia and Philadelphia
1 Eurtlitn about" 100 tons. For terms apply to
Rofs & Sim/on.
Jufie ia. . dtf
For St. Thomas, >
THE fctflP
Ann and Mary,
Captain Buns ;
WILL fail in ten days. For
freight or paflage apply to
F, COPPINGER.
•No. 221, South Front fireet.
June 9. dipt
For Sale,
The cargo of the brig Enterprise, Captain
Lang Jon from Bourdcaux, now landing at
Morton's wharf,
COMSITING OF
514 hhds. of Claret 1 " J
jl7 cases of ditto I-a «
100 enfes of Sweet Oil
»io pipes London proof ) BR4NDy . I S «
jo pipes of Holland ptoof ) J W -o
Apply do
Wharton & Lewis,
No. Hi, South Front St. 1
\ * Said Brig,
> WILL take a FREIGHT for f
?. the Weft-Indies or Europe, fails t
faft, burthen about fifteen hun- f
barrels, is in complete or- t
tier, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a <
few days '
Apply as above. j
May 24 . V
For Sale or Charter, s
THE SHIP
WARREN,
Benjamin Church, Majler. .j
OF about »8o tons burthen. , En- ]
Jejfe is? Robert Wain- i
May 26 §_ .
ForFrcightorCharter,
J Brig Fame,
5 FRANCIS KNOX, Maßer : '
A strong, excellent veffcl, has been just (heathed and
ready to receive a cargo. She will carry 2 ; ooo bar
rels, has good accommodations/o paflengers.
Apply to
Capt. Knox, or to
Kearny. Wharton.
|ure 6. 6 P
~~ HAY.
A Quantity of excellent Old and New Hay to
XXbehadat Peel Hall Farm on the Wiffahickon
Road, about 2 miles from the City.
Also, A QUANTITY OF BUILDING STONE.
JuneS § 6t
FASHION AND CHEAPNESS.
INTELLIGENCE TO THE LADIES.
JUST received from London, two trunks of e'e
gant BRUNSWICK KID Ladies' Shoe., of the
rood hlhionable mitrni and (hape now worn in
that city, arid will be fold off immediately jn fmail
quantities, at firft cost, forcalh, at Mrs. ENEFER's,
Nt>. 105 Walnut (licet, between Third and Fourth
itteett.
*„* The above wai purchased of Mr. Fox, in
Piccadilly, who manufactures for moll of the uobi
lity, and will be warranted good.
June 13 '3'.
John Milier, jun. & Co
HaVe .received per the India, Afhmead, from
Calcutta,
A well ajforted /mall Invoice %f
Gurrahs
Baft as
CofTucs
Calicoes
Bengal Strips*
Laid in remarkably low, which they will fell for
ca(h or Ihort credit ou very advantageous term*.
June 5. dawfri4th
George Dobfon,
No. 25 South Third-Street,
HAS imported per ships William Pcnn, Starr,
and Diana, from London;
5-4 Super London Chintg, elegant patterns,
Ginghams, Muflinetts and Dimity's.
Fafhonable Waiftcoating, newest patterns.
Ribbands well assorted, in small trunks.
4-4 j-4 and 6-4 India and Britilh Book-muf-
Kms.
Fancy Cloaths and Caflamiers.l
Tht whole to be disposed of cheap for Cafli
or approved Notes of a ftiorr date<
June 14. '97. d tf "
PUBLIC NOTICE
T S hereby given to thole persons, holding note*
1 of the fubferibtr, that he will, renew the
. fame, payable in fix years, with legal interell
f jfr»m the date hereof ; and that notes will be
given as above to all, who may have open ac
counts legally authenticated.
TIMOTHY MOUNTFORD.
No. 294, S. Second Street.
Philadelphia, Jonc 10, 1797-
Millinery Room,
No. 136 Marict-Jlrect.
MISS CHRYSTAL
»X*AKES an early opportunity ef acquainting
X her Friends tha't (he has received by the
William PeKM, a variety of NEW MJL
LINERY, &c. which (he hopes to be able tc
(hew thetn in a few day*.
•May 18 ■
Juit Received
From Batavia (via Providence)
170 Sacks of Java Coffee of firft quality
200 half sacks do. do
a few Boxes of Spices, confiding of
Nutmegs, Clovesapd Mace
For falc by
HILLINGS if FP.AK'CIS,
Pcnn»ftrcet.
it»T 30 it(
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, JUNE 22, 1797*
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & id proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pip?s T
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhd<
Old Hock, in cases of 43 dozen each
Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glafj, in boxes, of different lizes -
Hazlenuts, in sacks
Whiting
. )■ inhhds
White Lead C
& Spanish Brown J *
For Sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 ft.
Rofs & Simfon, 2
Have for Sale,
A QUANTITY OF PRIME
St. Domingo Cotton, •
Superior Old Lifbun Wine in Pipes F
Excellent India Market ro
• Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Calks
A few Quarter Chests bell A
i?;Kr od | t « s
Muscovado Sugars in Hogsheads, and P 1
Coffee in Tierces w
March 7. |[tf "
C. K Whitlock, w
D"E N T I S T,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gen- he
tlamen of Philadelphia and its vicinity, that he
continues to perform all operations on the Teeth ; sup
plies the deficiencies of nature with artificial or real qt
teeth, in all the various modes of fixing—Clea.is,
files, regulates, extraftp, and fills decayed teeth with .
gold or lead, &c. &c. He waits upon Ladies and
Gentlemen at their houses, and will be happy to re- Q
ceive their commands by note, at Mrs. Finch's, No. q
68 north Eighth street, or at his house. next to the n
Black HorfeTavern, on the Frankford road. tl
Dollars. ti
Scaling and cleaning 5 n
Artificial teeth, with enamel, per tooth, 5 ai
Do. in gold foekets or screws 7 h
Natural eeth with ligatures 7 fc
Do. on goto or ivory lockets, or gold screws 10 tl
Filing and cutfing away decay—each decay 1
Filling with gold 2
Do. with lead l
Eotra&ingfto the families who employ him u
as dentill) t c
Do. where not employed 1 h
Tooth powder of his own preparing 1 t\
' Brushes, best London manufa£lure 25 cents.
Regulating, &c. according to the operation. g
*»* C. Whitlock will fell the timeot a Negro fl
Man ;—he is honest and fobcr, and has about 5 years
acd a half to serve. Enquire as above.
I June 15 te»hlf a
Printed Calicoes. \,
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co. "
No. 8 Cbefnut-Street, 4 f,
Have for Sale a
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly afTorted, very low on
ihort credit. f
March 6. § I
5 > To be' Sold,
1 7 j
large and convenient j
Three Storv Brick House;
J 7
. QITU TE at the north-east corner of Arch and
O Fourth-streets. It contains eighteen rooms—
and is in every refpe«sl well finifhed. For particu
lars enquire of
M. Keppele,
c No. 138, Chefnut-ftreet. i
•j May 31, § :
s, Erfkine's View of the War. '
h JUST PUBLISHED,
„ By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
[. No 40 South Second street, j
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
m May 15 $
"WALKER iff KENNEDY,
No. 73,50uth Front Street,
. Have for Sale,
Virginia Tobacco, of the|Richu)ond inspec
tion
350 bbls. Virginia'FJour andJMiddlings
aT 500 bulhels Wheat
* 5 calks Ginfang.
ALSO,
Three cases Rouens Linens, entitled tothe
drawback
ioo pieces Bandannoes, and
ioocadies India Sewing Silk.
rr ' June 15. thsw3t
Grattan and Comp.
REfpeiflfully inform their Iriertd ~ that they have
imparted from London per the ftip Star, a
large assortment of
jf J PERFUMERY,
Which is now opened for sale at their House, N.<
19a Markefcftreet.
ilh Also, a new affottment of ready-made gentle
men's linen, shirts from a dollars each.to 8 dollars,
&c. &c. icc.
" aHd gentlemen are accommodated with
board and lodging at ten Doliars each,
ter Tnofe Gentlemen who haVe their own privtte
the lodgings, may be atcommodated with dinner only,
eft by the week or month,
be June 5
1C " To be fold,
The time of a stout hearty young NEGRO MAN,
who has upwards of four years to serve. Inquire
at No. 15, Dock-street. x
June Ig. tfaw
Window Glass,
of Saperior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
tlrf City—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
• From 8 bv 6 to 19 by 14,
A b By the single Box or Quanti'.y, may be had at the
1, r Store of the Subscribers, corner of Arch and Front
ftreet. _
: t0 James C. & Samuel W. Fijher.
r , Philadelphia; Juneq, 1797. S'wmwftf
i' or lale,
A fiair of very handsome
Bay Horles,
Near Cxtcen hands high, well broke, and per
fectly gentle. Enquire at Mr. Ktlfon'g ftablos,
Church-alky.
« Also, for Sale,
A Chariot and plated Harness.
June 13.
By John Fen no, N O, 119 Chef nut Street,
. PIANO FORTE.
LONGMAN y BRODERIP's
ROYAL patent Piano Forte with a green /
board, an e. v . ellenf toned inflrument. Pftr
lale at Mr- Sailers, No. 56, S. Fourth Street. n
June to. <1 iw.
A New Work. ft
PROPOSALS ■ 7
, For printing and puhlilhing, by fubferiptioo, The
History of Pennsylvania, "
}N North-America, from the original infti'ut.ion and a
settlement of that province, under.the firft propri-
etor anH governor, Wilium Penn, in 1681, 'till -
after the year 1742; with
AN INTRODUCTION. ±
Refpefting the W, PENN. /
Prior to ilhegra * of that Province, and the reli
gious Society of the people calied Quakers; with the
FIRST RISE of the NEIGHBORINGCOIX)NIES, 1
mere particularly ot WEST-NEW-JERSEY# and-the C
Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDE£ 00 DEL A- j
WARE.'
To which is added.
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO- 1
VINCE. I
And of the general slate, in which it flourifhed, e
principally between the years 1760 and 1770. The j
whole including a variety of things, ufeful and in
teresting to be known, refpefting that country in early
time, See. With an appendix.
Written principally between the years i 776 and.i7Bo,
By Robert Proud.
" fukhyum eji bcucfaccrc reipublka, etiam Itnedkere
haud abjuidnm tfl. vcl pace vel bcllo darum fiat licet,?* j
>ai. Catalin. Q
«' Sed cum % pierique anfiitrcntur res beltieas majores efje
quam urbOpas, mi nuenda eft hoc opinio." n
cic. off. J
(Entered according to law.) 0
" WILLI AM PENN, the great legifiator of the fj
Quakers, (in Pennfylvnia) had the fuccef# of aton- c
queror, in eftablrfhing and defending his colony, a-
mong savage tribes, without ever drawing the sword ; r
the goodness of the most benevolent rulers, in trea
ting his fubjeds as his own children ; and the tender- 0
ness of an universal father, who opened kis arms to_
all mankind without diftin&ion of feft or partyi In
his Republic it was not his religious creed* but per- f
lonal merit, that entitled every member of focicty to 1
the prote6lio« and emolument of the State" I
BJJayon Toleration, by Arthur o*Leary. '
CONDITIONS. ]
I. This work will be printed in two o#avo vol
umes, neatly bound and lettered, both in iheep and
calf, for the choice of the fubferibers; on paper simi
lar te that of the copd*tions, ai publijhed in the Subjcrip
tion papers. *
11. The head of William Penn, handsomely aa
graved, will be to the firft, and a map or
> (ketch of Penrtfylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the
s second volume.
Ill* The price to fubferibers will be four dollars
and an half in ftieep, and five dollars in calf;—-one
dollar to be paid at the time of fubfciibing, two dol
lars on the dellverv of the firft| volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery of the second.
IV. When one thousand copies are fubferibed j
for, the work will be-T>ut to press and finilhed with a
all convenient expedition.
n Subscriptions will be received by Zachaiiah Poul- a
son, jun. Printer, Ho. 80, Chefuut-ftrect, and at the
Philadelphia Library in Fifth-ftreet ; by Isaac Col
lins Piinter, and Joseph James, Merchant, New-
Yo r k; by John P. Pleafantsand George W. Field,
Merchants. Baltimore; and by other persons both
in town and country* 1
February 18. Ui&f
f Advertisement.
PURSUANT ta an Order front the Orphans'' Court,
tulll abfolirtely be fold at PUBLIC SALE, at j
Cranberry, on IVednefday,tbe ftsd day of Attgufl next, at
' I 9 clock, A iVf, all that valuable REAL ESTATE,
lite belonging to, the Rev. Gilbert T. Snow den, deceq/ed,
_ b w S in an d near Cranberry, iu the county of Middlsfex,
toxvnjhip of South Brunfcuici, Rate of Neiv "Jersey, up- 1
on theloufftr flage road leading, from Philadelphia to New
York. A very elegant framehoufe in a beautiful and
healthy fit nation, pair,ted white, ivith Venetian unndoxv
flutters, thirty feet front and thirty eight feet deep, two
rooms iv th a bandfome ball er entry on the frjl floor, j
}m three rooms on the second floor and two weli-fuiifkcd gar
rets. In the rear of the house is an excellent two-Jlory
'• building 37 sees by 19, confiding of u dining-room for (
work people, spacious pantries and a large kitchen, with
every convenience, and over these are three chambers fr
servants. To the fight is an .additional building 18 ,J\et
front by 19 feet deep, confuting of a chamber below and a
library above—-under the whole are very fne cellars paved
with brick and conveniently partitioned. The house is en-
Q m tircly new, built in a modern Jlyle, and completely atule
legantly finifhed. Every room. is "hung with bells that
lead both to the kitchen and the servants * apartments : there
is a pump of good water in the yard; and a flone and
brick pavement round the whole house, which is enclos
ed with a bandfome railing, with three gates in front.
The farm conjijls of one hundred and f/xtj seven acres
with a proportion of woodland and meadow, under ixtel
lent fence ; a garden with pale fence ; a large barn, fa
bles, carriage-bouse, cow-hotfes, tffc. all new, and built
in the befl manner : with two Orchards, one of 60 full
grown trees, the other is young and thriving, wffling of
100 bejl grafted fruit trees.
Nearly adjoining said farm is a lot of Woodland,
VC of thebcjl quality, containing 37 eicres. Also a trait of
land within seven miles of Cranberry, and I of the Cross
Koadi, containing one hundred and fifty acfis, three-fourths
meadow euid the red excellent timber.
I# ' This Tr*a will be fold in lots on Thursday, tie %#h
day of Augujl following, at II o'clock, A JVI, on the
premises if the weather permits, if not at the house of
,r8 > Mr. Wit her ill, Cross Roads.
For furtherparticulars enquire of Nathaniel Hunt,efq.
!t 1 Cranberry, of Mr. ifaac Snowden,jun. No. 141 South
Second Street, Philadelphia, or of Mr' Charles Snowdtn
* te Tontine Coffee-Houfe, New York, or of thefuifcriL rs,
lly ' ISAAC SNOW DEN,Princeton ") Ai j miniJJr aters
JACOB FISHER, Cranberry J
' • N. B. Phe sale of the above property was aavertized
for the 14th injl. but the Ahiiniflrators were not able to
net the hvo feparate-TraSls laid out into Lots, and other
>N, mutters arranged, on account if the indifpafitiort of one oj
lire them, it was therefore adjourned to the days above mention
w ed. §6tmwf'.f June 19*
~ Great Philolophical & Mechanical
Experiments,
To be executed on every Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday,at eight o'clock in the Evening, at Mr.
M'Dougalls Dancing Room in fourth street, be
the tween Chefnut and Walnut Ilreets.
ant- The force of Hercules is furpafted by artificial
Men.
The perfe&ion of natural philnlophy by an arti
c ficial Lady.
This adroit and graceful I.ady, will commence
her phllofophic experiment* by firing the cannou of
Volta.
She will melt nvtal by her (icry breath after
wards direct the ele&ric nre on a small House, and
destroy it,
\ S|ie will blow out of her mouth flaftics of fire
' flaming flars, and finally conclude
the experiment by fttrpriftng feats, by a (Ingle
pistol (hot, (he Tvilf kill » bird per Jung iu front or
the theatre.
June eod'jt.
Samuel & Miers Fiflier, ,
No. 27, Dock-street,
Have just received per Abigail, Bal/coct, from f
Belfast, f
IRISH Cambricks, in boxes of 40 pieces c
and 80 patches, each sorted up to 9/
sterling per yard. t
They have also-received ' a
7-8 8c 4 : 4 Irish 'Linens well aflorted t
Dowlas and Sheetfftgs, . • t
which will be f'jld for ready money, or (hort <■
credit, on moderate terms ; together with c
a general assortment offspring Goods as 41
lifuaL—Alfo, ' t
Hunter's Pipes in boxes • a
An assortment of Queens' Ware in crgtes [
An affortmeni of Glass Ware in casks aud. c
crates
T. Crowley, Milfington, Steel
Cargo & London particular Teneriffe Wines
Lisbon Wine of excellent quality
Superior Sherty Wines
Patent Sheathing paper.
A few small bales'fine Cloths neatly assort
ed,. and two bales assorted Flannels, to be t
fold per package. • '
June 9. gtaw 6w
For Sale,
At the Office of the Gazette of the United
States, No. 119, Chefmit-ftreet,
The last Report of t/je late Secretary
of.the Treasury ; being a brief history <jf the
(late of financial concerns of the United States.
The Proceedings of the Executive
of the United States refpetSing the weft?™ in
furre&ion : Containing many faols and cir-.
cumfiances no where ell'e to be found. 50
cents.
The Letter of Mr. Pickering to ,
ourminifter in France. *7 1-1 cents.
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States for the year
*795• '
A few copies of the volume for 1794 may be
had to complete fetta.
D'lvernois' account of the Revo
lution in Geneva. la i-» cents.
This Day is Published,
Aud fold by H. & i. Kaumeif.r, jun. No.
24, North Third-flreet, also, by Mr. Hen-
Kr StrEirzEß, No. 85, Race-Jlreet,.
(Price half a Dolfar neatly bound)
The Man of real Sensibility ;
Or, Tie HISTORY OF SIR G. ELLISON.
Founiei on Fait.
([3" The elegant Editioo of the Elements of Moral
ity, ia two vols, illustrated with twenty copper
plates', may also be had ai above, price, full bound
and gilt, two dollars and fifty cents.
H3tl. K. junrs. have on hand a quantity of No. 1
and z Writing Paper.
Valuable Public Document.
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale
At the Office of the Editor ofthe Gazette of the
United States,
No. Tig Chefuut-Street,
[PRICE ONE iOUAK AND FIFTY CINTS]
A FEW COP IF S OF THE
Receipts and Expenditures
OF THE UNITED STATES,
For thf Year 1795,
Being the I.ATEST Period to which jui account
can be nude up.
February .
Maurice Moynihan,
No. 81, Ner.'h SecondJlreet,
A few doors aboi-e Arch-street,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
for wholcfale or retail, on the lowed terms, a
general assortment of Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
tumblers, plain and II iwtred quart, pint,half piut,
3ill and half gill do. exail mtaiures, decanters and
wine glasses ; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint
bowls, and chii a in (eta and separate ; poeket
bottles: Schuyikill and Jcrfey country quart and
half gallon bottles ; Dry Goods, &c. &c.
N. B. Crates put up with care at the (horteft no
tice-
May n. d»t_
■ The Subscriber,
Determined to retire from bttlineft, invites all
who have any note, bill, bond or acceptance
of his, now due, to call for payment ; and those
who wifli to anticipate may receive the money
at a reasonable difcouut.
JAMES SWAN.
May n. daw.
"Dorchester, ncarßoftort, l6th May 1797.
Nathaniel Lewis & Son,
Have for sale at their Jlore, No. 70, adjoining
George Latimer tf Son, Pine-Jlreet Wharf,
A Quantity oi
Madeira Wines
In pipe.* and half pipes
, adeirs Walnut 6 and Citron, lately imported
1 in the schooner Sincerity, Capt. Copia
ALjo,
aj Puncheons, second and third proof, IVefl
' India Rum, and a few Pipes of Brandy
I They have constantly on hanU and for sale,
, French Burr and Coun'ry Mill Stones of various
- sizes, and a general assortment of Saaltiug CUths ol
!' the best quality, both American and Foreign ma
• nufiiiurc. The former having provt d, from fe
vcral years expiricnce of ir.uftibep of milicrt ir>
different parts of the United States at lead equal,
1 and in many instances superior to the European
Cloths, we hope the munufaflurer, Robert Daw
son, will meet with liberal.encouragement in this
', important and ufrful undertaking. lie has obtain.
. cd a patent and excluflve r|ght of making and
vending Uniting Civlts on his improved plan for i
number ef years, and t-'iey are'lofd only by hin\-
,1 felf in Lancaster, flute of lVnni'yJvania, and by
the fuhferibers in Philadelphia.
June 14 d
e Received by the Indoftan,
From Ms lira s,
ASM ALL invoice coDlilliog of lie fojlowinj
Coalt Goods, vii.
Blue Cloths
e Long Cloths, 14 ptitijumi
c . Do. do. fi r .ie
. Madrjft Handkerchiefs, md
,f Book Mullins
WILLING y FRANCIS.
March 17.
CINCINNATI.
•'PHE! Members of this Snte Sccietyare htiT
JL hy notified, that their anhiverfary meeting,
for rfie'purpofe of tiering officers of the Socie
ty, ami traruifiiHg such other bufmefs as may
come before them, will bt held oi»'the'4*h day
of July, ne*t. in.the Staie4ioufe, at 10 o'clock'
in the morning. The puiiislual attendance of
the members is requetled, asa quorum did not
attend at the lyft anmverfary meeting—After
the business i* finished, the Society will adjourn
to O'Ellers Hotel, in order to celebrate the birth
day of our freedom and independents. The
dinner will be ou the table at half pail three
o'clock.
Tl)e members of the other State* Societies of
the Cincinnati and the officers of, the American
army, who may be in this city on that day, are
particularly invited to join this Stite -Society ill
commemoration of the dav.
By order of the Handing committee.
R. PORTKit, Secretary.
June aid. 1797. . ;
Young Hyson 'I ea.
40 ehells of a superior quality—*lio,
100 do. of Hyson,
Imported in the I'Voodrop Sims, and for sale by
the fubfcrlhfire, cj» r.er of Second and Pins
fircct.
Ci Height.
June at. eo!f
Bcji English Crown Window Giofs.
A well afTorted Invoiceofthe best Engiifh Crown
Window Giafs, of the'foilowingfiaes :
10 by 8 ">
11 by 9
ll by 10 __ _ *< n <r
1 212 tO X F. Sn
14 by 10
16 by 12
*9 •>)' J
Likewise fre!h Rice, hign proof Brandy, best
mefsßcef, iiK hilf barrels.
Sail Cloth, Mo. I. to 8.
Sherry Wine.
A few hundred weight/>f excellent Duich Fifiol
and Rifle Gun Powder—and,
Thirty Boxes Chocolate.
For Sale b.jr,
Samuel Bred, Jun.
June \t. colOt.
GABRIEL DECOMBAZ,
BOOKSELLER If STATIONER,
Begs leave to inform the public that he has re*
moved his Shop to AO. 32, South ThirdJlreet,
AND HAS JUST PUBLISHED,
( Neatly boundand lettered, price 2 dols. 25 cts.)
Ihe Adventures of Telemachus.
French and Engiifh, 2 vols. i2mo.
AMONG the books which daily fall mto the?
hands of the youth of both sexes, none
have a higher claim to their attention than Tele
machus. The most interfiling lessons are here
conveyed in the vehicle or an intereiling Poem,
replete with the fineft touches of the true pa
thetic, and embellfhed with all the graces of a
beautiful flyle. The fatal effefls of indulging
the passions are exemplified in the most ftriktng
manner; and the happiness attending inno
cence and virtue painted in the liveliest colours.
Whatever can incite to virtue or deter from
vice ; whatever can enlighten the understand
ing, charm the imagination, and improve the
heart, is to be found in this intereiling work.
THE NAVAL~GAZETTEER;
Being a complete Geographical Didlionary,
containing a full and accurate account, alpha
beticaily arranged, of all the countries au'l ifl
aiKls in the known world ; ihowing their lati
ude, foundings, asd ilations for anchorage ;
with a particular description of the several Bays,
Capes, Channels, Coves, Creeks, Currents,
Gulfs, Harbours, Havens, Lakes, Oceans, Ra
ces, Rivers, Roads, Rocks, Sands, Shoals,
Sounds, Straits, Tides, Variation of the Com«
pass &c. Together with a particular relation
of the fliape and appearance at sea, of the ftv«-
ral Headlands, lilhmufes, Peninsulas, Points,
F: ornontcrres, and whatever is of use or impor
tance to the Mailer, I'Uot, Commander, or
Seaman of any (hip or vefi'el, in navigating the
watery element.
Also Comprehending
Ample Directions for jailing into or out of the
different Ports, Strait?, and Harbours of the
four quarters of the world; and for avoiding
"dangers on the vtriau« and extended roafli ; la
which more than twelve thousand diftin«fl names
of places, are treated of and explained. With
a coi reifl fct of Charts, 2 vols. Bvo. price 6 dols.
By the Rev. JOHN MALHAM,
£3" This has been pronounced the most ufe
ful and the cheapefl book publiihed in America.
June 21. dtf.
WILLIAM SANSOM,
HAS removed his Counting house to No. 96
Arch Street.
He has remaining on hand of the Cargo of the
Ship Pigou,
from Cantpn»
A few Bales long Nankeen?
ditto short <tftto
A few Chcfts Imperial Tea
<iitto Young Hyson dicto
Which will be fold Cheap on a liberal Credit,
in order to clofc the Tales.
June 19 d 3t.
The Shareholders
OF the Pennsylvania Population Company,
are requested to meet at the Company's
Office, No. 53, North Fourth Street, «n
\ Thursday the 29th instant.
1 By order of the Board.
Solomon Marache, Sec'ry.
5 June 19. * dt29th.
J\ow Landing,
/It Pratt's wharf,
' FROM on board tile (hip Thomas Chslklry,
C»pt. Rafer, from Bourdeai,., >
CLARET in casks
Ditto in cases
White Wine .Vinegar
Red Skins in boxes
, far Sale by
Rundle & Leech. ■
I Mav K §
C O 1 T O N.
A few ba'es iuft arrived, for sale by
JOHN CLAkK,
No. North Water fit—
J»ne 10.
[VOLvms XI.Foreign Intelligence. - {
LONDON, April 27.
fIbUSE OF COMMONS.
% WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16.
y Concluded frpm ytfitrdny's Galette.) I
Mr. Fol v 41 The fubjed. now proposed
to the confit'.srarion of the Committee, is
of such vast and fcrious importance, that I
•think it unnecessary to apologize for follow
ing the right hon. geutlema;!' through some
of the v inous statements and calculations he
!:as made,, and offering my reasons for dif
fering rq'jfl effentinlly in opinion with him,
not only with regard to the (late of the Fi
nances of the country, but.affo with refpeft
to the deductions which he has endeavouf
ed to establish from the positions which he
his- brought forward. The rosrd, fir, we
have to travel,' is notbefet with flowers, but
opens to our view a comfortMs and dreary
" profpeft, and, while we ratltly continue to
purfiii it, wc are deprived of every mean* to
avo'id the impending precipices with which
it is on every fide surrounded. I ititreat
gentlemen to conf:der and compare the
statements they have heard this day from"
the right hon. gentleman, and those With
which he has, on former occasions, but too
fuccefsfully deluded them. But however
fpecioiis and unfounded his financial calcu
lations have formerly been, they are even
exceeded in delufibn by his statements made
this day, which I maintain are altogether
unprecedented in the history of Finance.—
The right hon. gentleman came forward in
the month of December last, and having
succeeded in obtaining a supply of 18 milli
ons, he now 'repeats the experiment, and
calls on us for the fame sum. 15flt how has
he prefaced this sudden and extraordinary
demand ? He has declared, that the talk
of applying to the House, after so short an
interval, and for so large a sum, is irksome
and painful to him, and that he has been
disappointed in his views. That he has
disappointed us by this unexpefted applies- ;
tion, I most readily admit ; but what parti-1
cular disappointments the right hon. gentle
nan may have experienced, which compels
him to have recourse to our liberality, after
the recent and mpft convincing proof we
have already given cf it, or which can juf
tify his applying for this enormous sum, I
em, fir, at a loss to conceive. Does he for
get the language which he used in this
House on the 7th of last December, and
must he be reminded, that 18 millions then
advanced were given not so much with an
idea of prosecuting the war, as with an earn
est hope of enabling him to forward tire
great and desirable work of Peace ? Can
it be necessary sot me to recall to him the
public wishes at that period for a speedy
termination of the war ; and that the Loan
was accofriplifhed- on the general hope of a
fuccefsful ifl'iie to lord Malmefoury's embas
sy ? He told us then, that the advance of
18 millions ' was aVi ample supply, for such
were h's words, for the exigencies of the
State, and adequate to the pressure of eve
ry circumstance. Yet no disappointment
has iince happened to induce him so sud
denly to repeat the experiment. I cannot
for my part perceive any disappointment
which can have compelled him to this un
precedented application, except the state of
Ireland alone, and the sum required for the
embarrassments of that kingdom amounts
to a million and a half. What other disap
pointments the' sanguine expectations of
the right hon. gentleman may have fuffered,
he' hS* not condescended to inform ns. I
clearly exposed the delusions with which he
amused the House when he called on us to
provide for the last Loan of 18 milltons,
and the orent has fully verified what I then
pre fled so earnestly on the attention of gen
tlemen. With refpeft to the statements
made in the report of the Seledt Commit
tee, of the produce of the permanent taxes
for the years 1793, 1794. and 1795, lam
willing to give the right hon. gentleman
every benefit he may wifli to derive from
that report, however I may differ in opinion
with the fubjett matter of the report, and
objedt to the documents on which it is
foujided-. In speaking of the produce of
the taxes in 1796, as stated in the report of
the Seledt Committee, on which he builds
his calculations, (I stop here for a moment,
andrequeft it may be remembered, that I do
not agree to th<; extent of that part of the
report, or to the use which he makes cf it),
not knowing the amount of the Hat and
Legacy Duty, I allow them to produce
what he himfelf thinks fit to state ; but whea
I come to the Wine duty, there fir, I beg
leave to observe, that I differ both with the
Committee and with the right hon. gentle
man. The ftpek in hand cannot, in any
refpe£t, be considered as air annual tax, and,
indeed, the right hon. gentleman seems by
the very arguments which he introduces in
favour of that opinion to admit that it can
not be viewed in that light. The fair way
to estimate the produce of the wine duty is
to calculate it for 1796 on the fame ground
as if it was considered in 1795 ; and I will,
fir, by a parity of reasoning, argue for the
produce of * 797» by the experience we
have had of the preceding year. Thus
' having given the right hon. gentleman full
credit fcr the Hat and Legacy duty, and
admitting that a duty of 2 1. per ton will
produce in '96, what it produced in '95
. I' Hill maintain that that there remains a de
ficiency of no lefsa sum than 357,00 c!. in
the produce of the brought forward
by the right hon. gentleman. I will not ar
gue tint because he was mii.ut 357,'0c1. he
should have immediately proceetded to pro
vide for it; but I will contend, that for
him to m'aTntairi that he had a furpjus when
he was aitually minui 357,0001. is a delufi
on-t'f too gross and palpable a nature to
impose on the understanding. But if even
the taxes- cf 1796 produced the sum it was
intended thty should, there would Hill be a
deficiency of 88,ootl. and that according 1
to the report of the Select Committee.— 1
Lit us then ccn&cfer that at the beginning '
of tne fciiijn we vfcrc ic*,l. iWt;
that in Oitob'cr the "right lion, gentleman
funds his Navy bills,Tuid immediately after,
in December, makes his Loan, flioiild lie not
thtn have said intereft of the taxes
which have been proposed, it appeai-s that
a sum of I,Bcx>,cod. in taxes would not be
too much for the v irious calls of the prefer.t
moment. The deficiency on my calculation
amounts to 47c,"0c1. and not to 2ic,0001.
as stated by the Vight hon. gentleman, and
in the report of the Select Committee.—
And here, {if, I tl'iuk it neceflary to de
clare, that the report of that Comn>)iitee
does nttt merit the eulogium which has been
lavished on it. I believe it has originated
from, and has bieji conducted with grtod in
tentions, but that it is particularly. clear,
that it is founded 011 convincing documents,
and that it is -supported by evident and ac
i curate calculations, I can by no means ad
! Hiit. For I beg lea« to aflf, what has been
the line ofconduft pursued by the members
of the Committee ! They sent to the pub
lic offices for the calculations in the refpet
tive departments ; and on these papers,.fo
supplied through the very channel of Gov
ernment, they proceeded to form a decisive
opinion ; and here I must notice, that in de
livering their decision to the"house, they have
merely grounded their proceedings 011 the
authorities furnifhed incontcftibly by go.'trn
ment, and which alone we are thus called
• ;pon to fan&ion. In dating the produce of
the permanent taxe3, they have recourse to
the stoppage of the distilleries, for the pur
pose of accounting for the deficiency which
took place in them, and proceeding on the
fame system, they also allude to the boun
ties granted to seamen in 1796, when it
cannot be denied, that these bounties were
hi reality issued not in one year, but within
a year and a half. This conduct Was there
: fore prejudicial to the produce of the perma
nent taxes in 1795, an d to of other
years. They fay, that the stoppage of the
distilleries between June 1795, and Novem
bers 796, must have materially affedted the
I amount of that part of the produce which
| arises from the duty on Britilh spirits. They
do not venture to state the precise deficiency,
1 but on comparing the produce of the duties
on Britilh spirits in 1796, with the average
1 produce of the fame duties in the three pre
! ceding years, the deficiency is said to be
j 557,7931. They immediately after admit
S that upon this computed account of the loss
i upon the distilleries, an allowance (hoyld be
! made in Consideration of any increase of du
! ties upon beer which may have taken place
' within the fame period ; but what the a
■ mount of that allowance, may be, they do
not attempt to point out.—Thus, fir, it is
I evident that they estimate a deficiency in one
instance with refpeft to the stoppage of the
distilleries, on the system of a computed
average, and rejedt any substitute for that
deficiency in the instance of the duties on
beer, which they clearly admit have increa
sed, but which they, do not think proper to
estimate by "comparing ft with the average
produce of other years, as they have done
in the cafe of distilleries. Let us for .a mo
ment take the average produce, of the beer
tax for the three preceding year?, 4nd we
« shall find, that there arises a sum of 270,000!.
in favor of last year, which has been entirely
overlooked in the report of the committee.
This sum, I therefore contend, ought to
have been added to the produce of the per
| irtiyient taxes. They have also, fir, stated
their estimate of the nav.y service for the en
suing year to amount to 12,935,0001. but
the right honorable gentleman differs in this
very material consideration from the com
mittee, and fixes ft at 12,66i,0001. to which
if we add, as we are jultified in doing, the
floating arrears of 1,500,0001. the estimate
will then appear to be 14,1 61 ,OQol. Thus
the right hon. gentleman, instead of making
his estimate, as he fays it is, lefsby 100,000
than that furnifhed by the committee, will in
fa£t make it greatly exceed that which we
find in the report. I wish to know, fir, on
what principle he has calculated the probable
increase of the navy debt for the ensuing
year. 111 my opinion'the best, and certainly
,jhe most fatisfactory way would be, to cal
culate it by the experience we have had of
the expences incurred in that department of
the public service during the last year. I
must observe, that in every estimate tif this
nature he has been always disappointed, and
the cause is obvious : he has continually act
ed on erroneous principles, and has therefore
been continually mistaken. What is the
line of conduit then which he should adopt ?
Why, fir, instead of confining himfelf to
narrow and circumscribed statements, instead
of implicitly regulating his judgment by the
standard of official accounts and trifling cal
culations, he ought to take matters on a
larger, and unquestionably a more secure ba
fi 3, since it is established by the experrrt-ce
of the past. Let us take a short view of the
effeft of those estimates on which he prides
himfelf. On the-7th of December, 1795,
the right hon. gentleman stated, that the
probable increase of the navy debt would be
2\ millions, and this he called a very ample
estimate. Then it arose to 4 millions ; then
to 7 millions ; and now, in the month of
April, which seems to be a fixed term for
bringing forward a second budget, he calls
for 8 millions more. The right hon. gen
tleman next tells us, that he lias all his do
cuments from the refpettivc offices ; and this
I believe to be true : but he ought to sup
pose an increase not merely from official pa
pers, but from the constant experience of
facts. The expences of the navy are at this
'ixioincnt on A much larger scale than any
time during the war. 190,000 men were
voted for the service of last year j we have
this year voted 12c,&00. Inftcud, therefore,
of making the iiicrcafc less than it was, he
should make it pioportionably greater, and
it ought to be 6 or 700,0001. mare than
what ft is now fixed at. With i"cfpe<St to
the army extraoi dinariea, the right lion, gen
tleman fays, they are included in the com
mon estimate, but. will he not admit that
many after payments have frequently taken
place ?• Ar.d if so, is it not very likely that.
fuclt lApe.xej .will be :acu>rra on future
occafiona? I feel* my felt jußlfiud in decla
ring from the various view j- which. I have
taken cf important fubjccls, tint ilot
wituftanduig'all the heavy burdens, £T.d all
the dreadful taxes we are about to'impofe
this day, we huve still one million more to
provide for the exigencies of the public frr
vice. On the fubjedt of affording pecuniary
succours to the emperor, tfie right hon. gen
tleman expresses his dtfire to have a certain
sum reserved for that purppfe, and in that
point I perfedly agree with him. Y«t}
what is not a little extraordinary, he wishes
to have 200,0001. voted as a loan to his im
perial majesty immediately ; nay, fir, if I
rightly underhand him, he wijhes to have
the measure agreed to this very night. I
hope the right hon.. gentleman will set me
right, if I have misconceived his intentipn, .
or if I mistake what I take to be a most
alarming proceeding (Mr. Pitt here fignified
his intention of moving the 200,0001. in tue
course of the night). Then, fir, I main
tain such a proceeding to be a diredl in
fringement of the declaration made by the
right honorable gentleman, that he wilhed
to have the pecuniary succour intended for
the emperor, reserved to a convenient op-
I will not pretend to fay how
far the credit of the country may be hurt by
the measure, but let me alk, is there any
mrvterialdifferencebet ween exporting 200,000
sterling, apd not receiving 200,0001. flerling
which this country was to receive ? Did
the right hon. gentleman speak of this ex
traordinary manner of paying the interest of
the loan, when he a(ked us to be security for
the house of Austria, and when he extolled
the good faith of the bank of Vienna ? But
having in compliance with his arguments
and entreaties guaranteed flie loan, he now
with lingular feeling laments, it is extremely
hard to think that the einperor could pay
I the interest, as he fays, to a day.—To a
! day, fir ?—With more propriety may the
| right hon. gentleman fay, it is hard to fup
i pose that the emperor can discharge it to a
| year, or to a far more distant time. But
when will it be paid ? The loan was made
to him in critical circumstances, and yet he
is not to pay the interest, because he is now
in critical cijrcumftances. There has not
been hitherto one shilling of the interest dis
charged and I fearthis country willevcrhave
'cause to repent lending money to the emperor.
The right hon. gentleman must be aware thatif
the in tcreft remains unpaid, he mufteome to the
Hoirfe'V.nd provide taxes for the sum guar
anteed by us to his Imperial Majesty, and
thus add, by more permanent taxes, to the
- burdens already too heavy to be borne.—
j With refpedl to the specious argument
which is held out that the restoration of
peace will, by restoring commerce to its
full extent, alio make the produce the
taxes more considerable ; I on the contrary
maintain that peace is much more likely to
diminilh than encreafe the amount of our
taxes. For when we look over our taxes,
we find upwards of of one million arising en
tirely from articles which could not be tax
ed m peace. I cannot agree that the state
of our manufaftures is more flourifhing than
; it was last year, for the assertion is positively
contradifted by the manufacturers. When
I the Right Hon. Gentleman last year propo-
I fed to lay a tax on landed and personal pro
j pertyy- he ilated the landed rent to amount
|to 25 millions sterling. I am, however, one
\ of those who think he undervalued it, but
; taking it at his own estimate, I feel myfelf
' juftified in faying, that when we have passed
; the taxes now proposed, and when, after
the winding up of the war, we come, to a
state of peace, we shall have a revenue equal
to our whole landed annual produft. We
are now Sir, at the end of April, and 18
millions are yet to be found. Three pay
ments have only been made on the Loyalty
Loan, and there are still seven tenths of it
to be made good, whichamount to 12,600,00 -
We are to rote 18 millions to day ; so that
between this day and the Ift of January
next, we have yet to find for the public ex
igencies, the enormous sum of 30,600,0001.
We have to furnifh in so short a space of
time as 35 weeks, 30,600,000. or, in other
words, almost one million per week, till the
end of the year. But, Sir, there is still a
npther point of view in which I vviih to
place this most serious and alarming consider
ation. In 1796, the new taxes only pro
dnced 3 millions. What then, Sir, is the
burden which the fubjeft has hitherto fc!t ?
The weight of that sum alone. But the tax
es to be imposed this day, with all the o
thers, will mak« 7 millions and a half. So
that we have actually felt only 3 millions ;
and, to ul" a favorite expression of Ministers
we have been as yet only scratched by the
war, for the people have not experienced
half the weight of the burthens imposed u
pon them, and which they must fuffer when
"they come to pay 7 millions and a half in
stead of three. That it is right and necessary
to look these dangers in the face, the right
honorable gentleman himfelf admits, though
he is by no means ready to pftnftife the the
ory which he proclaims. There still re
mains another article with respect to future
expenditure, to which I wish to direct the
attention of gentlemen. I mean, JSir, the.
Bills to be drawn this year, in St. Domingo,
on this country, probably to the amount of
900,0061. The bills drawn in" January a
mountcd to 700,0001. Whether-they have
been paid I cannot undertake to fay ; but if
half remains unpaid, and an additional sum
of 900,0001. is drawn for, I conceive it ve
ry difficult to find how the whole is to be
discharged. I do nof blame the Select
Committee for'proceeding .to their report on
the calculations laid before them, but I blame
both the Committee and the House Jfor not
grounding.their opinion on others that con
vey morj; fol'd information f I mean those
which are furniihed by experience. I«n
fully fenfibleof the inestimable value bfpeace
to the country, aud it will, by a geometri
cal progreflion, become more valuable every
y:ar. I know no system to obtain the bles
sings which it diffufts, and'feeure»s but qn
unequivocal snd Steady putftlit in the attain''
meet <>fit, It is not, Sir, in any opinion, j
likely to tartftoied t(i us by fending Mr.
Hammond, or any other man in the hour
of impending danger and neeeflity to Vien
na,' but iri openly declaring and vigorpufly ;
adhering to equitable terms.
But foHiethiug- more is requisite to be done.
The HoUse must prove thsmfel'ves the -Rc
prefentatives of tHe people., Tlily >nulb
(hew the people that tlieydo.net blindly
fidein a ininKler by whom they have been j
so often and so (llarnet ully -deemed j and if
there is not pat 1 iotifm enoDgh left to force j
the\n to aflf thus, there is I do not hesitate
to assert, an cud of the Coqftitutjou. Prom j
the raeafurcs pu.'f'icd, andthe system avow-,
ell by Miaillit-s.of persevering in them, the
eountry is every .day involved in additionsl
perplexities and eiTib'arrdfsments. It is in.
y*iu we Jc.ok round fv)' •>'» and cheering
profpeft, for amid and confu
fioti wc llriyc.to no purjjofe to rescue our
selves from diitrefs.—
" While Alps (>tt A'j>* arifc. % *
With'refpe£l to the vote for the Army
Extraordinaries, does any man think that
the arrears of the army will Be extinguished
by that measure ? No Sir ! lam of an opi
nion direftly contrary. The exertion of
the public spirit. is ia this momentous crisis
absolutely necessary. The people ought to
know that we fhouldhave a complete change
of fyftem —a change from a blind confidence
in Ministers to a watchfulnefs and jealousy
of their conduft. I believe, Sir, I havn
nothing farther to remark than that if the
Right Hon. Gentleman means to take the
sense of the hhufe on the measure o£ lending
2c0,0001, to the Emperor, I (liall molt cer
tainly oppose it.
The Loaned/or of the Exchequer in reply to
the queltion put by Mr. Fox, said it was his in
tention to propole a resolution, granting a tem
porary loan to the Emperor of looyooo.
Mr. Grey combated several of the arguments
adduced by the Chancellor of the F.ichequer ;
he charged him with|being guilty of m'fiiemea
nor in diverting a parliamentary grant of last
session, to purposes different from that for which
it was voted ; ami ilated, that a sum amount
ing to 1,054.0001. to be returned to the "bgnk'js
had been appropriated to other purpefes.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer defended
his condudt, and ihewed that the surplus dated
by the Ho,n. gentleman, had been brought to
account, and appropriated in the grants of the
present session.
Mr. Steele defended the Chancellor of the
Exchequer (relative to the appropriations of
the grant of 5,500,0001. of last year) from the
charges of Mr. Grey, whom he accused of pres
sing eagerly forward to notice on a point on
which he was not properly informed, and quo
ted* ths ait of parliament, in corroboration of
his assertion, that 1,054,0001. alluded to by-Mr.
Grey, was not included in that grant.
Mr. Grey, Mr. Fax, and Mr. Pitt, replied to
each other on this fubjeil.
Mr. Sheridan charged Mr. Pitt with misrep
resenting. his hon. friend (Mr. Grey)- after
which he Ilated his ofcjedtion to the proposed
taxes in general, none of which, he said, ex
cepting that of plate, met with his approba
tion. He particularly objedled to'he tax pro
posed on the carriage of goods, and liid, that
with regard to the additional tax en newspa
pers, it was opprefiive in the extreme. The
right hon. gentleman if he pleased, in
dulge himfelf in a play of words, and stile it a
tax upon luxury ; but he would tell him it was
a tax upo» literature ; it was Unking at a source
of political it was a violent attack
upon the liberty of the press, and was calcula
ted to impede the general circulation of parlia
mentary proceedings. He view«d this proposed
tax as bf fooppreffive a nature, that he believ
ed noae bnt the right hon. gentleman would
have ventured to bring it forward, and on eve
ry account he wis determined! to give it his. firm
oppofi.ion.
The resolution was then put by the chairman
and agreed to, but for the resolution far an en
creafedduty on newspapers, a division ensued,
Ayes 151
Nays 43
Majority 1;$
strangers were not re-admitted after tjie divi
fior. j but we understand, that after the house
was returned, the rtfclutions were rejorted by
the chairman, and bills ordered to be brought in
accordingly ; after which, the house refslved
itfelf into a ceramiltee of supply, when, upon
a motion.of the .chancellor of the exchequer to
make a temporary advancement by way of loan
of aoo,ocol. to the Emperor, a division ensued.
Ayes 149
Nays 45
. Majority 94
Adjsurnedat II o'clock.
LONDON, april 27.
. Mr. Pitt's Budget of the new Taxes
to pay the interest of the last Loan, as wel 1
as former deficiencies, is now before the
public, and we feel no. difficulty in observ
ing, that if no other Ways and Means can
be devised for paying it, there Will be a most
miserable deficiency indeed of the public
revenue.
A new tax of three-halfpe nee on every
Newspaper ! and an additional duty on ad
vertisements, the indefinite extent of which
we know only by the right hon. gentleman's
own words, to " amount in fami injlanccs to
pounds." We are loft in aftonifnment, at
who could be th'e advisers of such an'enor
mous and' impolitic tax, which mull dtSCat
the very purpose for which it was intended.
We cannot suppose that it is the wifli of the
Minister ro- ruin the property of those who
hav* raised a suppOrt for themselves and
their families at considerable expence, and
still Tore considerable labour and rilk ; such
an intention, we are sure, >s beneath hiscon
fideratlon ; and yet "we are at a loss to con
ceive, what dclu/ion could have prontpted
him to such a measure. We know very Well
that his enemies will fay of him, that this
tax is intehded as an attack 6n the Liberty
of the Press, and to confine the circulation
of knowledge ; there certainly is ground
for suspicion on this head, for the tax is a
complete prohibition o£ the sale of News
paper:;. If the hon. gentle<nan had con
sulted the books of the Stamp Office, —he
would have found, that the too .heavy duties
he ha's ulready imposed on Newspapers, have
not truth tended'to increase the Revenue ;
and if it.ha 3 done so in a trifling degree, it
is not an object of -coiifideration, when we
consider the momentous events that have
been passing, to excite the ctrriofity of the
ffe**!?. Vrwrn these ce?.Cf, which we hope
vvsl! soon be tlie cafe,. Mi. Pitt will fn.d that
his whole tax on Ne vvfpspcrs w ill.be very tri
fling indeed. ' 1 -•»
It cannot be unknown (othofe whom Mr.
Pitt ought to have confultcd on this fubjett
that half the Newfj>apers in the kingdom
have for fcttie time pad been carried On with
.lcarcely any profit, and many at a loss, in
hopes tff.a favorable change in the times—,
what then rtluft be their situation, when they
crtre raifcd to a price whjtjh must inevitably
(',iiißi.niflj their sale, as vcejlas the number of
their advertisements ; for the enormous ad
dition propofcd to the already wry heavy
duty, ou by falling princi
pally on the regular Advertisers, such as
JJoofcfellers, Auctioneers, and Venders of
Medicinev vrill so reduce the number of ad
veitifers, ,as to prove a death blow to at least
i half the newspapers now printed ; and by
preventing theadvertifmg of medicines, See.
be equally iajwrioui to the revetuie, as it is
deftru£tive to the property of Newspapers,
and all property', the sale gf which was ef-»
fecicd through the medium -of. the Public
prints. -
Wehavejuft thrown out these e-'fervatioj-s
to df» v Mr. Ptti's attention moitminutely
to the fubjeft. We ?.re fu're this plan will
never nnfwer the purposes of the levenue nor
wi'l it be pofliblr, with this new heavy imposi
tion of duty, that either the . Printer or the
Newsman can afFotd»'o fell hi» Paper without
also adJing fomb profit to the little he already
ga'ns- (Timet.)
CONGRESS.
HOUSE or REPRESENTATIVES,
Tpefday, fuso -Q.
(Concluded from yeflerday's Gazelle.)
Mr. SirjiKiriCK thought that by raising
| theje men, they would increase the danger which i
! they not/bed to avoid. 'They appreljended air,
attack from a foreign nation, and to guard
J againjl any pofjiblt injury they wert to go to
' expence, and by that means increase our nation
al debt, from -which he thought we had the
greatejl danger to fe&r, since they saw the
difficulty attending the raijing of any additional
Revenue. He called the attention of the house
to a Jituqiion of things not much unlike cur
own. The French nation had many regiments
on their fed coajl, and had been long making
preparations, as if with a view of invading
Great-Britain. In corfequence, the Britijh
have expended large funis in fortifying and
putting the island in a good Jlate of defence ;
and, though, perhaps the French never serious
ly intended to invade that country, yet the ap
pearance of it had probably occafwned greater
embarrassment, from causing these great ex
pences, and the consequent derangement of the
country, that if an invasion had really taken
place.
• Mr. S. reprobated the idea of defending the
country againjl an invasion by two regiments of
artillery. The militia, he said, would be the
proper defence in such a cafe ; but he trufled
the commijftoners appointed for the puYpofe
would speedily fettle all differences betwixt the
two countries.
Mr. S. fpoie cf a veryfrious flatemcnt
which they had received the other day from the
secretary of the treasury, which did not stem
to call for additional expence, but for addition
al revenue. It appeared by that document that
there was due from the government to the bank
cf the United States, 4,750,000 dollars. Tet
they were told these expences mufl be gone into
and money borrowed whatever the interefl
might be. In common life, he believed, if a
man was prcjfed for money, it was accounted
a prudent thing for a man to retrench his cii*
pcnccs. He supposed the fame rule ought to
held good in refpeS to government.
But it was said, if theft men were not reiif
ed, privateers would come into cur ports, and
insult our citizens. Had there been any thing
during the present European •tear, which could
juflify such an apprehenfic K ? He thought not.'
He did not know a Jingle injlance of infill, I
except that of the Britijh ambajfador at R,hode
IJland, because some officers were not released.
sis to any invasion taking place, he had no idea
of it ; but if it wire to happen, militia would
bt the bejl defence and no expence would be in
curred, except there was a necejjity ; but if ar
tillerijls were raised the expence would be cer
tain.
Mr. Hartley was r.gaitifl J!riling out the
firjl feßion ; for, though he did not think 950
additional artillery were necejfary, he thought
there was a necessity, for some, and also for an
increase of the infantry. He thought 4000
men necejfary for a peace eflablijhment, as it
would be very inconvenient to march militia
from one end of the Union to the ether. He
did not wijh to go into excefsj but be wijhed the
force to be efficient. He knew /here mujl he an'
increase of taxis ; he was for a land tax,
and wifhedto go immediately into it.
Mr.. BkooKF.s said, if he believed there
was no danger, heJhoufd agree with gentlemen
that there wou'd be no occajion for these men ;
but thinking our situation in no degree improv
ed by the fate events in Europe, he Jhoufd vote
for raijing the p'ropofed regiment, 7he oljit
tion ,of expence would go againjl tv.ry mea
sure. As there was no cert.iinty of otir am- I
baffadors being able 'to fettle our difyute with
France, they ought, he said, like wife mm,
to forefee, and prevent'l he evil". He w, s
afraid gentlemen were got into a . profound
fitep, and would nit wake till it was ton late.
Mr. S. Smith said that tht report from
the secretary of war had confirmed his opinion
.with rejpebl to fhis ntecfare, The .gcnjleman
from S. Carolina, hud fpakeii of a numl/sr of
forts which had been, thought- of in 1794, ut
which had f nce been given tip. With refpeS
13 non-commjjioticd officers which that gentle
man seemed fa think Jtiould be dedu&ed from
the number of men, they were the life of the
artillery service, and the musicians tvere si w.
To jhew that t&? present number as men would
be fufjicient, he slated the following as bein•*
a proper number for ecch place, viz.. Wejl
Point Co, New-Tcrk 60, Mud-IJland 60,
Baltimore 50, Norfolk-so, Wilmington JN
C. 30, Charljlon 60, Savannah 30, New
par: Co, Portland 30, Portsmouth 30, Point
Petre (Georgia) 30, W.Jlern Pep 412 —
Total 992.JlJr. S.actujed the gcnthtr.rn freiti S. Co* *
ralitta VJitb •whul'ing and turning bis arguments
into every frffille form ; liit hi was certain
■ nct<withjli:riding <wbat the gentlemen had said ;
to th( contrary, that the present men were equal
to all thefer'oice they had to perform. 11eji- !
Tuvcd there were militia tvelt trained to the use ;
of artillery ; there were two companies at Bal
timore ; one he had with him on the ivejlern 1
. cr.ptda'uir, ; he believed the miliiia at Charlrjlon
was equaMy welt tra 'rr.td. He lutfbed the sub.
j.-{! to be pnflpaned till the next fejjim.
Mr. Cll f.S •was riot of opinion with the
gcallman from ■South-Carolina, that because
iht president and secretary of war, had recom
mendatl tie- raijing of these men, they fhouli a-
A°pt the plait ; indeed the senate proposed to
raise only half of what the secretary recom
no-tided. He trujkd they Jhould think for
themfela.es.
A'(. C. did not think the flrength of the eoun
fry depended on 4000 artil.'jry ; he looked upon
mi!it-try eflablifhments as a fort of faftitious
ftrargtb, but upon the militia as the realftrfgth
of the nation. He thought the expence a f rious
ilk {lion. It appeared our eflablfhment bad
already cojl us eight millions of dollars, and he
teuld not fie vjbere they had donefervice to that
amount ; be therefore thought it a bad bargain
The gtnlUmanJrom New-York, had charged
the hrnfc with being a/leep. He believed that
could not be the pnfe, at it would be a difficult
mutter indeed to sleep where he wa>. It had
beenfeid additional revenue iJauld be wanted,
whether this bill fhff.lt or not. Suppcfe ths
, -were so, it was fttre'.y no reason for pafjing a
bill which might be thonght unnecefjary
Mr. Breokes exclaimed.
Dir. Dayton [the Speaker) did not know til!
be heard the gentleman ft cm New-York fayfo,
that new fortifications were contemplated; be
sup! ofed the money apprcpt iatid was for comple
ting :hofe already begun.
With riff eel to the propriety of this fneafure;
he bad always been in the habit of diflrujling
his own judgment, whenit differed from that of
■the President and Senate; his firjl jmprefjions '
therefore in favour of the measure, but
the more he had confidtred it, ike mote these
imprefflons were effaced. Mr. I), said, if the
fubjstf waj before thent, he should rather be in
favour of inereafing the number of infantry
than of the artillery. He thought the heft wny
of making the increase, would be to add to each
company one officer, two non-c»mmiffior.cd offi
cers arid ten or twelve privates.
The gentleman from New-York had said he
should agree to the proportion, because he thought
the country in danger. Mr. D. thought the bet
ter way wou'd be, if this.were really the cife,
tcfill our arsenals with arms, our magazines
with tmmunitioa, and our treasury with money,
lie agreed with ihe gentleman from Maryland
that we had artillery 'enoughfor 8, io, or 12,000
men. Artillery, be said, could not do the ser
vice of infantry ; their difeipline was very dif
ferent ; they do not work up u rt fortifications,
but merely guard the guns, isfc. He wished
they had bad a. view of the iufantry stifo ; if
they had not been fufficient, be should not objtS
to the increaftng if them ; but be could fee no
propriety in increasing the artillery.
Mr: Hartley thought the men to be raised
might be made to serve as artillery or infantry
as they might be wanted. He believed half the
number proposed would be fuffcient.
Mr. Shepard was in favor of the plan fug
geficd by the gentleman from New-Jersey.
Mr. Potter hoed the feftion .would be ft ruck
out. If the proposed addition to our artillery '
was meant as a peace efiablifhment, they were i
not wanted ; and if they were to be raised with
a view to war, they would be incompetent. He
thought 40 men might be fparcd f rom Philadel
phia, and 50 from Weft Point, for Rhode-Ifl'
and, which at present \*as entirely without
any-
Air. E'.mondorf -was in favour ofjinking out the fic
tion. He thought it vias proper to enquire ivbct tvas the
natural it fence of the country, and-what -were the measure/
proper to Lt talttn fur that pnrpofe. He be'ieved the object
of the pref.nt bill had no relation to it. Tha be/I ivay
•would difcharge our debt, in the nextplaoe tofortify,
and providefufftcient arms and ammunition , the militia al
so fbou'dte well organized and disciplined, and they fh'juld
attend to ueonomy in the expenditure of public money.
the queCdon f/r.ftriiing out thejeition was Out and
carried, there being 56 votes in favor of it.
The committee refe and the bouse -were about te take the
queflion by yeas and nays, tvhen
Mr. i£lkfpie'vrifbcd to fay rvly be fhouli votein fa
vour of defir eying this bill; it tvas, because he believed
there -were n.en enough if properly difiribueed; and be
cause they had only been allowed fn men at IVilmington,
though they -wore entitled to 40.
The qurflitn n/aj then trjen by yeas and nays as fol
larws :
YEAS.
McjTrs, Baldwin, Baird, Biount, Brent, Bryan,
Burgess, Cabe!l, Chapman, Claibotn, CUy, Clop,
ton, Coit, Davis, Dawfon, Dent, E'mendorf,
Firdley, Fowler, Freeman, Gallatin, Giles, Gil
ltfpie, Gregg, Grove, Har.r.a, Harrifon, Havens,
Holmes, Jor.er, Kittera, Locke, Lyman, Lyon,
M'Clcpachan, M'Dowell, Milledge, Mor
gan, New, Nicholas, Parker, Potter, Skinner,
S. Smith, W. Smith, (P) f-prigg,Standford,Sump
trr, Swan wick, Thomas A. Trigg, J. Trigg,
Van Cortlsndt, Varnum, Venable, J. William >,
R. Wiilliams— 57.
NAYS. *
Mcffcs. Allen, Baer, Bayard, Bradbury, Brookns,
Chan>plin, Cochran, Craik, Dana, Davenport,
Dennis, Evans, A. Foster, D. Fofter,Glenn, Good
rich, Grifwold, Harper, Hartley, Hindman, Hof
'mer, Imlay, Machir, Otis, Reed, Rut
ledge, Schoreman, Sewall, Shrpard, Sinnickfon,
Sitgreavcs, J. Smith, N. Smith, W. Smith, (CI
Thatcher, Thamfon, Van Allen, Wadfworth—j?
Mr. tV. Smilb moved ths order of the day on the hill to
prevent tie citizen of the United States from entering into
the ferviie of any foreign Prince or State.
The Huufe vent into committee accordingly.
Mr. Havens thought time ought to he given for citizens
m foreign countries to become tsequainted -with the alt, be
fore it took place.
Hfr. Nicholas hoped the committee rvauld fife, an J that J
tley jhould get quit of the preftut bufmefs. There ivere
Jfitne delicate propojiticus m tht hiU n hich ivouU require
mush difcujjton. He was duultful -whether the principle of
the till zvas right; fit -were, he far» no nec-Jpty for
passing it at prejenl, as he did not think it probable ihst
this aft could take plafe before an end -was pu tto the Etc
rsptan ivar.
Mejfirs. Rut I edge i IV. Smithy Dayton, Brookes, Oti,
an/X 1 tier a, favour of going into this measure, in
Otter to prevent our'titnens from entering on hoard foreign
slits jof mar, and by thai meant prejern* a firift neutrali
ty i that mhen perfat* defre to expatriate tbemfclfes, and
become citizens »f another ciutihy, a lute Jhottldbe sharked
out by nlbub they may do so ; and in otder to prevent the
hill already passed 1» present oar citizens from entering an
board privateers y from becoming a dead letter, xuhitb
was said it would do, rf this J'.V zatrtnot paffed.^
Mr. S. Smith ruts eppofed I ibe bill. He ruifbed oar
youth id) have fall liberty to go on board the Jhips of nar of
tiny foreign country t in order to gtin experience in the art
of ivar, that if ever \oe should have ouaftanfor them, they
*M'<ght- be called hami t» defend their oron country. He
said there «rr/ at this time on loard the Dtti'fhJket, nut
lift than one hundred \faur youth, learnir.g the art of rear,
taho perhaps night 11 rv.istfeJ on ftOM future daj, to fight
the very njt.cn under .itlo/n thy at draining.
• The corkmit'f; rft Wjlou! taSiag a qvejJ.»n, and had
leave ta fit again.
A mstjagefroi* (tie Senate ifirm J 'he' Flofftbrtthr* I
had passed the bill fir ftvlfyi*? the torts and hj hours of j
t'.c <Sr.:Ud Stat:t % rvithiut amendment.
Adjourned\
General Smith, ia hit obfer*?jtions \ejierday on the bill
for t>*"hventing our citizen*from entering on board foreign
•veffc-fs of TVar, said, that the ve/p! commanded by Captain
&rijn> -reported by Major Alc.intflorence (in the docu
ments tra*f*n:lledfrom Paris by Mr. Pinckney, and late
[ly laid hefot e Congnfs) to ha ve been carried into France, j
bound from Not folk or Portsmouth to London, rva/proved i
to he a fraudulent vcjjil, ftifl g -wit I out any to dtfo 1 |
under Ameruan colours, no such veffet having Iteen reg'f
te) cd at either cf these pi.ices.
A hill has he en reported in the Serrate to e table the Pre
fde./t under certain reftriftiont, to raise .1 provijional army
"ot exceeding 1000 Artil.erifls, 1000 Cavalry, and
13 >©oo infantry; no man io receive any bonntyat his en
■ ij : ment, nor at any time after, ttnlcfs called into a&ual
nor art any troops raifd by this afl to be -ealled
into afiual service, urlrfit the cJrcumjfances of the United
Stales flail, in the opinion of the Prcftdei.t, render it ab
J f lately ncceffary.
%f>e d533CttC,
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY EVENING, June n.
PRICES OF STOCKS.
6 per Cent. 16/10
Deferred 6 per Ccn:. 1 >fi 13/"3
5} per Cent.
4> perCft'.t.
3 per C«"—t ■ 10/4
B .1 NX SII A li E S.
Bank United States, 17 per aeut. jidvance.
Pennsylvania, 17
North America, 50
ixsußdxa: company shj res.
I. C. of N. A. 50 per cent, advance.
Penafylyania, 3
A New-York paper (the Time Pif,ce)
of yesterday fays, "We hear the celebrated
Thomas Paine is atrived here in one of
the vessels from Bourdeaux."
By a report of the fecr«taryof the treasury
laid before the house of reprefintatives by
the committee ef ways and means, it appears
that the receipts of revenue for one year,
ending 311! Mareh loft, were 9,405,098
dollars, 4 cents; and the expenditure in the
fame period 8,728.473 dollars 50 cents ;
.caving a balance,fubjeft to future warran s,
of 676,624 dollars, 54 cents. Of th« ap
propriation made at the last session ofCon
gtefs fiiere temain unexpended 3,001,288
dollars, 37 cents.
The secretary also state?, that the revenue
. has been progressively increafing;—in fume
of the principal ports, .thequantity and value
of imports have- diminilhed this season;
several of the last appropriations are inade
quateto the obje&s delignated; —new re
venues ought therefore* to be established for
every new expence which may be incurrec';
—provision ought to be made for payment
of the sums which may be awarded pursuant
to the 6th article of the treaty with Great
Britain, —fufficient funds should he pledged
for the payment of the interest, and reim
bursement of the principal of any sums to he
raised by loan; the public interest would be
benefited by fpeci/ying that such loans should
be tefunded in five years at furtheft; —the
New Yoik bank loan has been discharged;
the sum due to the bank of the United Rates
is reduced to 4,750.000; —anb there remain
unfold 2220 bank shares,
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Pout of Philadelphia.
ARftiVED. DAY 9.
Brig Planter, Hawkins, St Croix 15
Schr. Eliza, Glotftr, Cape Francois 15
Sloop Prudence Hill, Pa.Taraaquady ri
Maria, King, New York J
Diana, Parsons, Alexandria 8
Capt. Glover saw there capt. Rockwell, ol
the brig Mercury, of Philadelphia, who, on
his paftage from hence to Gcmaives, had been
taken by a French privateer and carried to Jean
Rabel.
Thejofephus, Wilkins, and Anthony, Mis
ler, of Philadelphia; Franklin, and James, of
New-York, with a number of Eastern vefTels,
were waiting at Martinico for a convoy.
The brig Lavinia, 011 her paflage from hence
to Barbadoes, was taken and feut into Euftatia,
where the veflel was cleared, but the cargo not
decided on.
On Sunday morning last, at 4 o'clock, about
1 leagues south east of Cape Henlnpen, th« Fame
experienced a very severe gust of wind, rain,
&c. The lightning ilruck the mam top gallant
mast and (hivered it to pieces, fe;ting fire to the
maintop mast rigging as it proceeded d->vn
ward —split the pumps and burst tfc; well to
pieces—rent the deck, &c. The captain and
crew were stunned by the shock, and laid pros
trate on the deck, for some minutes insensible.
New-York, June ax.
ARRIVED. DAYS
Ship Steady, French, Bourdeaux 66
Maria, Ferris, Demerara 16
Olive, Seppie, Bremen 70
Brig Kofina, Archer, Bourdeaux 70
Bifpatch, , Fayal 84
Patty, Campbell, Hamburgh 61
Orien, Shaw, Cork 35
Eliza, Tucktr, Savannah 7
Hunter, Parker, Cape Francois 16
Union, Rattwood, Demerara 41
Shr. Polly, Purfell, Washington, N. C. g
Sloop Kainbow, Cannon, Newbern, N.C. 7
From Capt. thaw's Log Book.
Capt. Shaw, on the 18th May, in long, ao,
spoke the (hip Diana, Dixon, of and from New
York to Hamburgh—all well. >
June 6, in long. 60, W. spoke the fh ; p Port
Mary, Paclfwood, of and froui New York to
Liverpool—all well.
Frtm Capt. French's Log Book.
May 8, in hxg. 43, lat. 44, spoke the brig
Pamela, from Baltimore.
May 31, in long. 66, fpeke the brig Mary,
Cooper, of Haverhill, out 36 days front the lfle
of May, bound to Boston-—who supplied capt.
Freuch with provisions and water, be hai-irg
that dety divided the lafl mt,utbful I
Juue 7, in long. 72, (poke the brig Pol'y, of
Charleflon, 13 days from the Havannah K.
ffland.
F1 am {.apt JVtlliatns's Lo? Bonk.
Ma* 19, in lat. 34, long. 61, fell in with an
Englifn flee; of Merchantmen, of 160 faH, last
from Tortola, bound to -different ports in.Eu
rope, tinder convoy ot two 7.4's and a frigate
—onrof the ?4'» was a Spanifi vtfiel talxn at
Trilfidad.
May 27. ia lat. *7, was boarded by a Frenrj
of 16 g'ms, uut 7 days frcm Guada
loupe, and taken nothing.
June 14, in lat. 36, long, 73, fpeke the fifcr.
Dolphin, capt. Clark, frmr. Ba!fixoje.boiiai to
>h» tiaranrih, cm 1 days.
By this day-s Mail.
NEW-YORK; Junt it.
We Are informed thato*e ofthe psrfdns'*-ho
robbed rh? Nantucket" dank about tv/n years a
ppo, andtjins tim? after .yards efcapedf.o n con
finement, wis taken yesterday- and pro
perly fectired. His accomplice, who was in the
fame bed with him, not bring immediately re
•comade 'bii' etoapc. A 1 r£e reward
hid been offered for their apprehtniion.
the various vcfllls which a souther
ly breeze planted in our harbor yeft-rday, is the
nrig Orion, capt* ihsw; in 3? days from Cork ;
by which we have received Cork papers to the
iothof May* containing Louden dates to the
6th. two tiavs later than toetor*e received. No
very important event, it Teems, had occurred
from the 4th to the above date> except a confir
mation of a separate f>eace with the Emperor.
From the lafl Coilt paper, we copy the follow
ing
Foreign Intelligence.
LONDON, April 29.
The following letter was received this morning
from corrvfpondcnt at
Dover, April 18."
" A person belonging to tliis town Was landed
this clay trom a vciTel which left Kuiul.uivh 1-ii
Sunday. He brings an account that a mt'lieiigcr
h.dariived therefrom Vienna in five days, with
an account of sonic great advantages g*i!>ed by
the Aurtriaus ovt r the French, but had not time to
learn the particulars."
If this information liecorrefl, the above meffen-.
ger must have left Vienna nvi days later than the
■ date of the intelligence from that capital, received
by (hi mail yesterday.
Fiivate letters received yesterday by the
Htmbutg mail, brought intelligence that gen
eral Buonaparte w.is certainly empowered by
the French Dlieftury, to offer ultimately furh
terms 'o the Emperor as may lead to a gen
eral pacification £Sun.
Lord Bridport failed yesterday morning
from St. Helen's with the fleet under
command—The wind, however, changing
in the course of the day, the fleet was oblig
ed to put back to St. Helen's—Three of
the (hips at PortsmoUth, the Marlborough,
Minotaur and Ramilis., persist in demanding
that their particular grievances be redressed.
They have not yet lifted their anchors. The
reft of the fleet, however, take no part with
them.
May 5.
Stocks experienced a further depreciation
yesterday. Consols were down so low as
48 —Imperial three per cents, at 44 —and
the new Loan at three fourths premium.
Mr. Hammond was not expedted to reach
Vienna until the 30th of April, 13 days.af
ther the signing of the preliminaries of a se
parate peace.
Saturday, May 6.
The Hamburgh mail due on Wednesday
last arrived this day at noon. -Tie Vienna
Court Gazette of the 19th does not mention
the signing of the Preliminaries of Peace;
but only the prolongation of the Armistice
between the Archduke Charles and General
Buonaparte to the 20th; but letters from
several parts of Germany ftaie, that the Pre
liminaries of Peace were signed at the head
quarters of General Buonaparte on the
18th.
The Nuremburgh Gazette of the Z2d ult.
contains the following article.
" Yesterday the 21ft, at seven in the even
ing, a courier palled through this town,
with intelligence that Peace was concluded,
and signed on the 18th at Goiflern in Upper 1
Styria."
None of the Foreign Papers make any
mention of the conditions.
We communicated to the public, in part
of our Impression yesterday, that govern
ment had received dispatches from Vienna,
with an account of the signing of the Preli
minaries of Peach on the 18th ult. between
the French Repubjic and the Emperor. A
copy of these Preliminaries has not yet arri-
the messenger having set out from Vi
enna immediately after they were received by
the Austrian Cabinet. They contain how
ever, the leading principles upon which the
separate Peace between the Republic and
Emperor is to be negociated. The Nether
lands of course are given up and the French
Republic extends itfelfto the Rhire.
The concerns of the Members of the Ger
manic Empire who are at War with France,
or who have been deprived of territorial pof
fefllons by making the Rhine the Borndary
of the Republic, are to be discussed and de
cided upon in a Congress to be held at Bade
to which it is stipulated Great Britain may
fend a minister with powers to negociate a
general Peace. A Cessation of hostilities
on the continent has been agreed upon ;
dnd we (hould now indulge the fond hope
that the blessings of peace would soon be re
stored to Great Britain, if we had the hap
piness to have any other administration than
the present; but under such Ministers can
expectations be sanguine? Can we rationally
hope that they who entered into the War so
rashly, will even now be eager to make
Pwce? or can we believe that men who
have condu&ed the Warfo difgracefully,
will be able to terminate it honorably? It is
under such men that the sentiments of the
French towards the Englilh Government
have assumed, a character and complexion
which is horribly described in the Grondeur
of the 28th ult, a paper attached to the Di
rectory, and elteemed to be one of the molt
moderate,
All the accounts from Vienna represent
the alarm that prevailed there before the
15going of the Preliminaries to have been ex
treme. The Head quarters of the Republi
can army were but 8 pods from Vienna.
Most of the Royal Family had fled. The
Ambassadors had made preparations for their
departure,at a moment's notice, The Ar
chives, Chancery, &c. had been packed up
and sent off and many of the Nobles and
men of property had taken flight with their
most valuable effects.
PARIS, April 27.
Accounts ♦rom Turin and Bade agree in
dating that subsequent to the expiration of
the armistice on the )ft irift. a bloody and
decisive engagement had taken p'-ce. It
appears, that on the fourth day after the
jfufpjiifion of hostilities, the-archduke re
queued a prolongation of the.armiitice, which
w-m rt-fufed, and that-he a&udly made such
difpofitious of his army -as he-thought belt
calculated to surround. Buonaparte. The
French general, however, thefe
hostile movements and adopted mtafures to
fru(lrate his objeft. At the moment the
truce expired, he attacked the archduke
on all points and routed him completely.
Never did the army of Italy fight with lb
much erithufiafm and intrepidity.—lt is ob
vious that it was in eonfequence of this de
feat, that the Auftriangenerals solicited the
second armistice, which was followed by the
figniug of the preliminaries fcf peace.
It is said, that Buonaparte, wltoisufually
of a serious turn, was cn thin occaiion ex
tremely cheerful and communicative.
April 28.
It was a large house, very well known in
Paris, where all the reports of the defeat of
citizens of Bergamo by the mercenaries of
the Venetian nobility, were manufactured
for insertion in certain Journals. Up to the
latest date of these fabrications, no battle,
we are allured, had taken place. One, how
ever, happened soon after, but the result
was different to the reports. The inhabi
tants of Bergamo defeated the (laves of Ve
nice. All the French have quitted that
city where they had been treated with so
much indignity and outrage.
Buonaparte loft no time to notice the
execrable proclamation inserted in one of
their recent publications. He immediately
wrote to the senate of Venice, allowing
them twelve hours to mak,e reparation.
In reply, the Venetian nobility gave their
Haves dire£tions to massacre all the "French
who were lick or wounded in the hospitals
of Verona and Salo. It was necessary .to
acquaint the commander in chief of these
tranfa&ions, and wait for his orders. Kil
maine was directed to make an example
which will leave a deep impression. He put
himfelf at the head of a chosen body of men,
and it is conjeftured that Verona and Salo
are i) 6 more.
Came passengers in .the brig Orion, cap
tain Shaw, the reverend Dr. Burke, Mr.
Maffey, Mr. Harrifon, Mr. English, Miss
Canty, and Miss Connor—and 34 steerage
paflengers ; who, penetrated with the deep
est sense of gratitude to captain Shaw, for
his polite and generous treatment during the
think it would be injustice to with
hold their unanimous thanks.
BALTIMORE, JUNE 2c.
Extra ft of a letter from a gentleman tn^Anna
polis, to his friend in this city, dated the 19th
injlant.
" Snatched from the jaws of death, I has
ten to inform you of my escape. On Sa
turday I embarked from Kent Illand in the
belt ferry boat. About a mile and an half
from the western (hore: we were overtaken
by the molt violent wind which this country
every experienced. We saw it for several
miles tearing up trees, crufiling houses, and
feattering limbs in the air. We immedi
ately prepared to encounter this dreadful
tornado ; lowered every inch of fail, and
put the vessel's head to the wind ; but in
vain . The storm no sooner struck her, —
than she began to heel, and never recovered
in the smallest degree. I stood at the hatch
till the ballast fhifted, and the water poured
.into the hold, endeavoring to cut away the
sore-mast, in 3 moment the mails were under
water ; scrambled upon the bottom, and
continued there for about a minute ; but
not feeing the ferry men, and finding the
veflel was linking, I hurried back to the
gunwale, there I discovered Tom in the
molt diltrefling lituation. I gaveliim all
the afiiftance in my power, but the veflel
was now finking so rapidly, that all hope
seemed to vanilh. I held with two fingers
in the scupper, until that part dragged me
two feet under water. I then put my feet
against the deck, and with one violent exer
tion, made stir the main-mast ; but that in
stant a wave overwhelmed me, and I seemed
to link to rife no more. Fortitude, howe
ver, had not yet forfaken me ; I made one
attempt to <rife to the top of the waves,
land succeeded. I then fortunately laid hold
of the hatch, which was floating near me.
I then struggled for and caught hold of the
malt, where for 15 or 20 minutes, every
wave went at least fix feet over my head.
However, the storm subsided, and I am on
shore, but much bruised and debilitated by
the accident. Five other vefltk were over
set in fight of us, but I hear of no lives loft,
I am in too much pain to -be more particu
lar."
NORFOLK, June 15.
Memorandum of veflels captured by French
privateers, received on Tuesday by capt.
Galloway, from Port-de-Paix.
AT CAPE FRANCOIS.
Schooner Polly and Sally of Richmond,
capt. James Galloway, bound to Cape Ni
chola Mole.
One other schooner and two brigs, names
unknown.
AT JEAN RABEI.
Brig Defiance, Capt. Whidbee, of Nor
folk, bound to Cape Nichola Mole.
Schooner Venelia, capt. Holden, from
New York bound to the Moje.
AT PORT DE PAIX. .
Ship Jane of Philadelphia, and a Hoop be
longing to Fredericklburg.
LOSS OF THE ELIZA.
The (hip Eliza, capt. Burton, of Norfolk
was wrecked upon the Triangles (Turk's
I(lands) on the sth May. The capt. and
crew were picked up by a French privateer,
after having been four hours, at sea in their
boat.
By capt. Galloway we alfoka», that an
embargo was laid on fbr 8 days ::t Port-de
Paix, in consequence of general Touffaint
having gone against St. Marc's, with an ar
my of 30,000 men, chiefly blacks.
Yesterday arrived the brig Edward and
Mary, capt. Blackburn, 25 days from Gre
nada. On the 31ft May, in Ist. 26, long.
rtS. fpoks the schooner Sally and Jane, of
Philadelphia to the Mole.
By this arrival we learn that the failure of
the late. J?oi*to .Rico expedition was Chiefly
owing to the deferb'on of 256 of the emi
grant reg'ment .called Royal Etrangers,
who with a. number of the officers went oi
vcr to tb^ - Spaniards,
.Capt. Roberts in the fch'r.. Charming
Betsey, arrived in the liver yesterday, 16
days from Janlaica, informs that the schoo
ner Wiiiiana Dtckfon failed for ttos port
two days before him. The ihip Sally and
schooner Ann Pennock, both of this port;
with several other veflela, to fail in
two days with a'cc'nvoy.
'-'he brig Sophia, Shirley, was arrived
■ at Jamaica,
arrived;
j Biig E Iward & Mary, Hackburn, Grenada
Schr. Three Jiifepii's, steed, Antigiii
Inirspij; Witkinfon,.
Sloop Thomis & Sally, Gilbert, Mattlbiqu*.
RICHMOND, June 16.
FEAST OF REASON.
Yesterday an entertainment wac
; given to Gen. MARSHALL at the Eagle
i Tavern, by a number of the most refpeftj
[ blp citizensof this cityand its vicinity. The
j principle which a&uated this pttblic display
of civic fcltiva!, was not only to express one
approbation of the choice of the President in
our worthy fellow-citizen} but to evince
our most ardent desire of a happy reconcilia
tion of the difference which at present Un
hapily exists between our lifter republic and
the United States.
Among the company we fibferved his ex-'
cellcncy the Governor, the Attorney gene
ral, several members of the Executive coun
cil, of the afTembly, &c. other citizers
of diftinfiion. The feftival was closed with
the utmost hilarity, a number of patiiotij
toasts were given ; and when "success to th•
embassy ofGeneral MARSHALL" was drank
the tears of affeftion flowed from the patri
otic eye of every true friend to the real inter
est and happiness of his country. In faft,
the whole entertainment fully displayed the"
FEAST 1 OF REASON and the FLOW OF SOUL.
We understand that general Ma'rlhatt will
leave this town on Monday next, on his way
to Philadelphia, there to join his colleague,
judge Dana, and to proceed to France, oa
the business for which they are appointed.
;—-T- • * ■-*
For Wilmington, North Carolina, ,
Warren,'
*ytt -Bsnjamin Church, Maf.tr,
uSi-xmWILL fail the z6th inft. For
fr-ight or pafTage apply co the Captain on
board, or to
JeJfe £9* Robert Wain.
June aa. §tif>
Wanted on Rent,
WITHIN seven mile 9 of Philadelphia, a
convenient House with a Garden, suita
ble for the accommodation of a genteel fmill fa
mily, for which a suitable rent will be given.
Any person having such an one to let, will be
pleased to leave informatios of the Puliation and
terms at No. 43, North Third street.
June 12. eo,3t
Notice is hereby given,
THAT a procefiion will be on Saturday next,
the 15 th of June, 10 o'clock in the morn
ing, of Ancient Terk Masons, African Ledge
No. 44. The Brethren are requested to attend
the Same. Sermon at ix o'clock, by the Rev.
Brother A. Jon is.
By order of the R. VV. Grand Maftrr,
P. M. NIXON.
Petir Richmond, Secretary.
Juae 7.%. *it
Bush Hill.
June aid, 1797
THE Public are refpe&fu'ly informed that the
Evenings Amuferient cf the Gardens for t!:»»
week are arranged sot
TO-MORROW TEVENING, FRIDAY,
June 23d,
B. They are also rtqueftad to take notice
that the Tavern and Gardens will b* publicly open
for general adtuiflion onTuefdays, Thursdays aiA
Saturdays.
%* Suudayi admittance, one quarter of a doU
lar, which entitles the person to its value in w:njs,
liquors or refrefhments.
£/* Dinners dref»'d sos parties at a day*o notice
5 t
POUT-Qb*lUCh, Philadelphia, June 21 1797*
Letters for the British Pace Ice t, Carteret, will
be received at thi9 office until Saturday the 24th
inil.at 12 o'clock, noon.
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY am, BROKER'S OFFISE
No. 64 south Second flreet.
T ICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No, 11, which
commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion R3 the drawing advance*, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the larfi.day o£
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination frtd register
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Wafliington, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Aifo, tickets for sale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Pefk omen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the course of the summer. /
'l'he bufiiefs of a Broker in all kinds cf Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, See- «£c. tr&cfa&sd with the
urmoft a:tentien.
Juae 2, tuicf
This Day is Published,
BY Med. Dob Con, Carey, Campbell, iiice, and (be
OUbci Booklellcrs,
rice One Dollar and twenty-five cents.
Elegant y printed on (Vove paper, and Hot*
prfid, _f
Bv John Thompson,
A CONJPnR »' Vt VIEW OF
The Conftitull ons
Of the several States yith cnoh ether, and with
that the Uuited States: exhibiting
the prominent features of and
claflingtogtther thtir most imp.rtan: provisions,
under the lcveral heads of administration; nilh
NoUs and Obfervatious. « .
' By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South Carolina, .
X. L. D. and member of the Congrofs of the
United States.
Dedicated to the People o? th« United State*.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at 3.4th*of a dollar.
l'cbruarjr 6 irwf'pHE SUBSCRIBER having beer. sp|»iu»iiby
JL ihc Envoy Extraordinary aoA Muiipcr Pleni
poteotiaryol hi* jtan.iic Majesty, General -*gent
lor attiring Bntilh creditors, a«.d lack fiariicular a
gents a* they may fpecully authorize, in prof reusing
ihcrr claims be fore the cwrotnifTjoncrsfor c»»ryi» g in
to effect tfce f:x:h article o'. the Treaty of A/mtt, Vom
mr<eand A between his Britmtutc
the United States America, hereby fiivts notice that
he ha* opened his ofn.c at hi* koufc the (nutli eaU
corner of Cbeinuc and fifth firms, Philadelphia,'
• where he is ready to receive all claims or irilijuttioris
for claims with the vouchers aud document* thereof,
lor the purpose of bringing forward the fame agree
ably so 'he rules and orders which the board may
think proper to prescribe.
And as u w«Il be lor the interest nf all concerned,
thai Ac Icverai claims be so Hated, and lupport
<dj as to prevent the delay which would arifc- from
the neccflicyof obtaining further in formation, or ad
ditional materials,from per lons rcfldtflg at adiftance,
the general agent thinks k his duty to add, (lor the
dire&ion chiefly of thofc, who, not employ
ed particular agents, may leave the prolecinion of
their claims to his charge and management} that all
such ciaims ought in pellicular to set forth—
»ft. The, proper defer ipt ion and fitoaticn of the
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, reflect
ively.
«d. The date or nature of the original or
debt.
3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant wts prevented or impeded,
by the provifjon, operation or detect of law, the
deeifions and pra&ice of courts, or icilraint ©t exe
cution, from recovering payment of the debt in
qucftion.
4th. Thelofsand damage incurred or sustained,
in confequer.ee ot such impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen from the infolveney, change ol
fituatiou, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from lapse of time, or other caules impairing
the value and fccunty of the debt, which would not
have (o operateslif such impediments had notexiflecl.
And 51b The particular grounds and reaCcns on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treafy, that ♦ by the ordinary course of judicial pro
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and a&ually
. Imeand receive full and adequate compenlation" lor
the ictfcs ar.d damages so fuftamed.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to fug
gelt that the several claims ought to be accompanied
and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly attefled, both as to theexifience
of the debts claimed, and such other circumlbnces
as may be within their own knowledge refpcftively.
And wherever the claimants in Hating the nature of
their evidence (which must in every inflance be the
bell of which the cafe is capable) have occasion to
tefer to the testimony of witneifes, it will be propei
to apprifethe general agent of the names and places
of residence of (uch witnefles and the faftsto be efta
blilhed by their teflimony.
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June Bih, 1797. d»m
THK following valuable
Trafts of Laiyl,
IN the coumtyxf Glynn and state of Georgia,
will be fold by public fate, at eight o'clock
on the evening of Tuefilay the 17th day ot June
next, at (he Merchants Coffee House in this ci
ty, unless previously disposed of by private sale.
ift. 7000 acres 6n St. Simons fcound at the
confluence of Frederica and Turtle rivers, ad
joining the commons of the town of Biuufwjck,
originally granted to John Ilowell, and withia
6 :viles of the Atlantic ocean.
2d. 25,000 acros 0:1 the head waters of a
branch of the great Sattilia, originally grented
to Ferdinatd O'Neal.
3d. 10,000 acres on tR e waters of the little
Satilla river, and of* Bfcffaloe and Alexanders
Creeks ; the great Satilla road pafles through
these lacds, which were originally granted to
Ferdinand O'Neal.
4th. 50,00 c acres on the great Satilla river,
which are also ifiterlefted by a branch of thfc
little Satilla, and were driginally grated ten
Thomas Spalding.
It appears by authentic certificates from
Thomas Davis, surveyor, and f.om Major
Hopkins now rehding in Philadelphia, that the
body of these lands are not thirty miles from
■the ocean, ar.d principally within tide water ;
that the Alatamaha is navigable for boats and
rafts two hundred miles above, and (or large
vessels within ten miles of them ; that they are
chiefly firtt rate pine lands, producing timber
equal in quality to any in the state of Georgia,
possessing the fame advantages of navigation.
The aboveroentioncd certificates, together with
the patents, drafts, andother papers refpefling ■
the title, which is complete and unincumbered,
are in the possession of the fubferibers and may
be feea by applying to Benjamin R. Morgan, at
No. 41 Mulberry Street. The terms of pay
ment will be one third cash, the remaining two
thirds in gcod negotiable trdors'd notes, paya-
Me in three and fix months after the sale; a
conveyance to be made to each purchafcr on the
payment of that inoiety of the notes received
from him which becomes firft due.
THOMAS FITZ3IMONS,
JEREMIAH PARKER,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN.
Philadelphia, May 31, 1797. eodtf.
Georgetown Bridge Company. \
Extract of an aft pissed by the Legislature of
the state of Maryland on the 29th December,
1791, entitled, " An adl for ereiling a bridge
over Potowmac river.
'• And be it enaCled, that the fa id dirfcrftors or ,
any two of them (hall and may require any sum
or fumsof money in equal proportion from each
and every proprietor, as may from time to time
be necessary for carrying on the building of said
bridge; and after giving three months public
notice, it shall and may be lawful for the dirtifl- 1
tors to sue for and rucover in the nama of the •
company such unpaid requisition, with colls 1
and charges incidental thereto, and legal interest 1
thereon from the time the fame should have 1
been paid: And the negleif or refufal to pay any '
such requisition after public notice shall have '
been given at least for three months in all the '
rewfpapersbeiein btrfore shall have 1
the effect to forfeit all preceding payments made 1
on the share or shares so neglected or refufed to '
be paid t9 the use and benefit of the company." 1
mation of such of the stockholders as have not 1
complied with the requilitions heretofore made '
—they are as follow •• On the jll November, '
1795, ao dollars, on the 10th May, 1796, 40
dollars; an the aoth July, 1796, 40 dollars ; en
the ift September, 1796, 40 dollars, and on the |
ill November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is ]
now given that after the expiration of the tittle ]
limited for the ccbtir.uancc of this advertise- t
ment (three months) .the law will be carried
into rigid and complete effedl against all delin
quents.
By order of th.
WALTER SMITH, Tnafurer. "
Georgetown, May I, >1797. iawjm
WHEREAS my wife, Mary Smii*. has c
abfcon<l«\f': om my bed and hoard with- a
out any just cause, this tq forewarn all persons J
from trufling her on my account, as I will piy b
no debts of her contradlingfrom the djte here
of. JOHN SMITH p
June ao. 1 jt b
A FEW BOXES OF
Bologna
OF A SUPERIOR QUALITY, v
To be fold at No. 199 So-.iur tVont-.H/cer.
April to' . cots
The Commifltcmers
I 'pOR carrying into effeA the TWIN'TY-FIRST
J- Article of the Treaty of Friendship, Limits,
and Navigarion, between His Catholic Majeity
and thtr(lnitedStates of America, hereby givein
j to all Persons therein concerned, —That,
(l in order to terminate aU differences, on account of
II the lofles fuflained by the Citizens of the United
j States, in conference' of their VclTels and Car
goes having b**cn taksfnjiy the Subjtits of HisC&th
[, olic Majerty, during the late War between
> »id France, that they arc ready to receive (at tneir
y Office, between the hours of ten and one o'clock,
daily) all complaints and applications, authorized
I, by the said Article, during Eighteen Months
t- IroHi the day of the date hereof, and th.ii*hey have
n power to examine all such persons as some before
them, jh oath or affirmation, touching the com
plaints in queftiorr, and also to receive in evidence,
e all written teftimory, authenticated in such nxan-
ner as they fliall think proper to require or admit.
11 By OrJjr of the Cotnmij/ionsrs,
PETER I.OHRA,
Secretary.
C mmijfioners Office, Ao. 109, Mulberry
,r reet, Philadelphia, May 17 tb, 1797.
ao—64W
I,' New Hat and Hosiery Store.
'Jn/i Imported,
(i In theJbips William Pcnn and tar, from London, and
noiv of)cnin<r by
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
c A T-his new Hat and Hosiery Store, No. 134,
* xjL Market ft reet—
-1 An elegant affortnient ot silk, cotton and tliread
Stockings
1 Silk, cotton and thread Cloves
Pantaloons, &c. &c.
Like wife, ahandfome aflortment of men's, wo
men's, and children's falhionable Hats, fuitablc for
7 the Season.
r A considerable quantity of low and middle priced
Hats assorted in cases, intended for country ft ores
May 2s. taw
: JAMES DAVENPORT
s O Efpe&fully informs the Citizens of the United j
JtvSfates that he will make Machines for Spinn-
ing Hemp, Flax, Tow, Cotton, Wool, manufac
' turing Twines, and weaving, by wat«r, on the
' mofl reafonablc Terms.
A Manufadory on this principle, he flatters
hhnfelf will meet with very gensral patronage, as
the Machines will be made and delivered, complete
ly furnilhed, per Spindle or Piece ; nor will any
charge be made for his Patentßights,but Liberty will
be given to the Purchaser to life them ; the great
inconvenience of employing Workmen 1:1 the rec
tion of them will be#ivoided,and thcperlon wishing
to extend them will be able exarflly to calculate the
expenee. He engages to set them to work, and
alio inflrndl or cauie to be inftru&ed, any person
or persons, in any part o£ the Union, who may
purchase these Machines, in their principles and
method of ere&ion, such pur chafers paying travel
ing expences
For terms, application maybe made at No. 74
Market Street, Philadelphia.
% * It is requested that all letters may be peflpaid.
June 10 *6t.
Musical Injlrument Manufactory,
No. 167, Arch Street.
T TARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable grand,
II fid :-!)oard, pier table and square piano forte
maktr from London, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, Sor their liberal encouragement,
and hopes that by his assiduity and attention to ev
ery branch of his business, tomerit a continuance
of theirfavors. Piano fortes made on the newest
and moil approved plans, with pedals, patent,
swell, and French harp flop, which he flatten
himfClf will oe found on trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not superior to any import
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any itiftru
m«nt purchased us hini, if uot approved of in
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of Musical instruments made,
tuned, and repaired with the greatefl accuracy,
dispatch, and on the mofl reasonable terms, l t r
ready money only.
Secondhand Piano Forte*taken in exchange.
May . u &»m.
For Sale,
That <well known place, called Vakdegriit's
fhiv,
ON Nefhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York port road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premises are a large two ftery Hone house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame liable with a good threshing
floor, and some out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent jce House. On
this place is a most elegant situation fora gentle
man s feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny to its junilion wiih the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jerfty shore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Seibfcribcr,
MORDECAI.LEWIS.
May 24.
To be i'old at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder, at the house of Mr. 1
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 25th
day of Oiiiober next, at u o'clock, A. M
Abdlfl seven thoufarid acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifter's-town and Westminster,
commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road runs through a confidsrabie part of
thel'e lands) the tradl begins about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
of said Reiflef's-town, aad extends to the dif- 1
tance of about twenty-three mihs from Balti- :
more, and lias on the main falls of Patapfipa '
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will !
be fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to
three hundied acre. There is a large propor- '
tianof meadow and wood land on each trail,
some of them highly improved, with excellent J
buildings and fine grds.
ALSO. ,
A tra£l of seven hundred acres of ;
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of <
Bladenfhurg, efleerncd very good for Grass. c
Richard Ponfonby, of Bladenlhurgh, will (hew
this land to any person inclined to purchase. c
also, f
A traft of land of about three hun- 1
dred and thirty acres, within about two mitt 6 f
and a half of . the Prefwlent's house in the Fede- i
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine i
high profpedl, from which may be fcen the f
city of Wafhingtcn, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfon
by, of BladenJburg, will also shew this land.
A be given for the greatefl
part of the purchase money, i'he terms will f
be made known on the day of sale. o
''» v 8 Him
67. Übes Salt.
3000 bufhets st. Übcs SALT, for sale by
Philips, Cratnond, isf Co. *
Juut u. jt
/ COLUMBIA HOUSE
, Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GHOOMBKIDGii with ranch pleas
ure and refpeif, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
, /he his received during four ye;rs residence is»
f Philadelphia ; and allures her friends aud the
i public, so far from intending to decline her
school, Ihe has made a luperior arrangement for
- the more convenient accommodation of her
3 scholars.—Every branch of ufefnl and polite
r education is particularly attended to by Mrs,
. Groombridge and mailers excellii/g in their
■ refpeflive profeflions.
Comer of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
c June 51b, 1797. fimftf
e The situation is perfectly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an cxtenfive garden and lot
' ot ground adjoining the fcoufe.
• An elegant House in Arch-street.
TO be let and entered on immediately, a large and
elegant lioufe at the corner of Arch and Nimh-ftreet.
There are two drawing rooms and one dining room
—the largcft is 31 feet by 26—and two are so con
ne&ed by folding doors as to make but one* Alio,
five bed rooms, beside five in the ganet, well finifh
- ed for fervsnts. There are fteb!e3 and a coach house,
with eve<y convenience for a family. Enquire at No.
99, in North Seventh-Ureet, or at No. *lB, Arch
ftreet.
d Alio to be rented for the summer season, a small
neat house and garden aboat 3 1-2 miles from the
citv, with stables and coach house. Enquire as above.
June 6. 2aw3w
j Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sharehold
ers, that a further assessment of fifteen
dollars is levied on each share, payable in the
r following instalments —viz.
, One quarter immediately.
One quarter on the t[L of June.
One quarter ou the ift September.
One quarter on the ill Dec. next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Trea
surer of the at the Company's Office,
[ No. j 3 north Fourth street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they further
informed that en their negle&iag to pay the
. fame as above diredled, the fevwa! forfeitures
direfled by the Conftitutiofi, willl be exidled.
s By order of the Board,
, SOL. MARACHE,
7'reafurer.
May i< sim
Notice.
A LLperfons indebted to the Estate of Sarah
J-x- Marshall, dcceafed, arc requested to make
immediate paymenc, and those that have demands
against said estate, are dc fired to bring in their ac
coants properly attested forfettlement, to either of
the fubferibers. Christopher Marshall, Jr.
Caspar W. Haines,
Abraham M. Garrighes,
Administrators to the Estate of Sarah Marlhall,
dcceafed. June 3 aaw3w
T O BE SOL D,
A valuable three story Brick House ;
SITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank of
Pennsylvania, the lot on which it {lands, to
gether with the vacant sot adjoining, which ex
tends to Goforth.ftrcer. The houle is about 50
feet in front on Lodgealley, and about 41 feet
in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet
front on Lodge alley, and 42 feet on Goforth
ftreet, being a street which leads from Chefnut
ftreet and Carter's*lley into Dock-street at the
horse market. The house consists of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two diniag
rooms, one of them forty feet in length, the
other about thirty-four feet, each containing
two fire places, two parlours and a large kit
chen, with extensive cellars under, and garrets
over the whole, a privilege of a vacant lot
of ground to the eastward between this house
and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
yard, a handsome piazza fronting the vacant
lot, and a frame liable and dwelling house on
Goforth-ftreet. The premises now rent for
£.318 per annum. To be fold clear of all in
cumbrances.
For terms apply to John Clement Stacker.
April to 3iwt f
For Sale,
AN ELEGANT AND VERY COMMO
DIOUS
Three story brick House,'
And Lot of Ground thereunto belonging,
IN Arch, above Seventh-street. being a high, plea- j
fant situation and good neighbourhood,* The said
house is twenty-fix feet in frout by 48 feet in depth
and a piazza twenty feet in depth, and 2 story kitchen
withpantries 31 feet in depth, in the piazza there is a
commodious flair cafe with mahogany railing, and
there is also a back stair cafe; said house is finifhed
in a complete and modern stile, with marble
chimney pieces, flucco cornices, mahogany doors,
&c. Ihe said lot is 38 1-2 feet in bresdth, about
30© feet in depth, and has two fronts ; on said lot
is a large brick coach house and stable, well finished, ,
and plaifteied, a pump of good water in the yard,
and about the premises there are many convenicncics
tfco tedious to enumerate.
The above property will be Cold clear of all in
cumbrances, and the terms of payment made easy to
the purchaser.
For further information apply to
JOHN ELLIOTT CRESSON,
No. 144, South Secoml-Jlreet.
June 9. fmwZtv
Venereal Complaints,
1 PUNCTUALLY attended to in every stage of
that without the use of mercury or
restraint of diet, in any cafe recent and simple, 011
application at No. Chefnut-ftrect, oppofjte
the United States bank, or at No. 170, South Wa- '
tcr-ftreet, between Spruce and Pine-ftaeets, where (
he has opened an office for the better accommoda
tion of his patients. «
But in Lues Venerea confirmed, Do&or Morgan <
pledges himfelf, that no fy ft em of cure (hpwever '
specious) can be efFc&ual without mercury, and J
that all the known rules of practice for these two '
centuriespaft, and united experience affirms, that J
any substitute for it is but negatory, and any mode '
of pra&ice to the contrary mull be futile and d«-
ceptious.
Nevertheless, he undertakes, however compli
-1 cated the cafe, to efTg& a cure without inconve- 1
nience or injury to the patient's conftrution, and- '
in time net generally experienced or expefted. <
NB. Regular attendance at the office in Water- 1
street from the hour of nine o'clock in the morn- <
ing until one, and from three o'clock in the eyen- t
ing, until seven; Hut any other time at his dwelling i
house, in Chefnut-ftreet. j
June 19 * dtf j
Poft-Office, 23d May, 1797.
THE Mail for Baltimore will be closed at this of
fice every morning (Sundays excepted) at half past 7 >
o'clock. (
Ihe Mail for Boston will be clpfed every day t
(Sundaysex<?epted) a«; 2 o'clock noon ; and
The Mail for Frederick, Milford,Clowes, Dagfco
rouj;h, Delaware, Hornrown, Accomack Court-House
•nd Northampton Court-Houi'e* Virginia, will be 1
ciofrd eveiy Monday morning at half past 7 o'clock. I
May 23.
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufais)ured as usual,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Philadelphia Poiur, Beer, Ale and Cyder
' London Porter
Taunton and B»iton Ale .
Red Port and other Wijies, .eithe bottltfd.
r or by the pipe, quarter-calk or
for exportation or home tonfupript ion—
JBcr Sale by
' Job}i Haworth.
. No. 98 south Front street.
May 18 tU4w
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for l'aleby John Morton, No. 11'6,South
' Front-Areet,
Hyson
Hyson Skin ( Tc ,„
Young Hyson f 1 h
I Imperial J f
April 20. etitf
! JOHN CRAIG
. "LJ A S just imported from Rotterdam, via St.
■ A-t Thomas, and for i'ale on rea lonaljle terms
' by the package
Platillas Royal
Haerlem and German linens
; Kouens
Post and ProPatrw Paper
Wafers
Quills
Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles
Coffee Bags
He has also for Sale,
Befl: Red Clover Seed
i Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use
T eneriffe Wine of firft and second Quality
Coffee in Bags and Hogtheads
Jamaica Spirits
Connecticut Turpentine Soap
AVindow Glass
■Two Trunks of bell Patent, Silk and Cotton
Hosiery
April 18. 4aw
PennfylvaniaPopulation Company.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Share Hold
ers, that a further assessment of nine dol
lar s is levied on each lhare, payable as follows,
viz.
Six Dollars immediately, and
Three Dollars on the ill of July next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Treasu
rer of the Company, at the Company's Office,
No. 53, North Fourth-street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed, that on their neglecting to pa the
fame as above directed, the fevcra Iforfeitures
will be exa&ed.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MAKACHE, Treasurer.
May »7. djot
For Sate,
ON board the (hip Mollv, John Frost, master
from Liverpool, laying at Walnut-street wharf
6000 bushels of line ftoved Salt,
And QUiiEN'S WARE, well affiled,
By PHILIP MICKLIN fcf Co.
WHO HAVE IN STORE, ALSO FOR SALE,
100 Boxes WhiteHavanna Sugars
Imperial and > ~
Hyson |
17 tubs Quicksilver
a chests Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chests Manchester Goods well assorted
in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, muflinets,
dimities, &c. » Trunks black sewing (ilk,
180 Crates queens ware, well assorted,
10 Tons Iheet lead,
Nails assorted, flat and fhirp points,
London p»rticular and ) Madeira Wine ia
India market 5 pipes and hhds.
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Teneriffe Wine,
10 pipes choict Port ditto,
31 calks yellow paint,
7 boxes 11 bundles writing fiates,
1 box ink-stands A note presses,
Sail canvas assorted No. 1 a 8.
May 4. dtf
Lancaster, Harrijburg CarliJJe,
Sbtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requested to take notice, that
the partnership which has for some time sub
sisted between Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is jiow diflolved : but, not as M.
Slough insinuates to the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
jed from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
December 1 a ft. a recitai of which Ls Hot n©w deem
ed neqefTary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
this bulinefs, .by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal «f M. Slough's letter," and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfedlly juftifiable in attaching him
felf to any other pei-fon in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf-
Krg, or any other place.
Now from the liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this buGncfs, Vf illiam Geer, in conjun<flion with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and fllifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
thof# wno wifti to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse, '
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrilburg, '
Ca lille and Shippeniburg. The fare as hitherto '
J
fib r the further accomm.dation ol the public, '
a Stae;e will dart every Wednafday froth the house
of Samutl Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun- 1
bury in North»mberland ccunty, every Thorfday, !
and vciurn from thcocc and arrive a: Harrifburg
eveiy SaturJey, so that piflcngers defined far
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on Man- '
WILLIAM CEER. 1
Lancaster, Jan. 17, 1797.
N. B. This Line 0? Stages Darts from the y
house of William Ferr«e, in Laocaftcr, on eveTy j
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro- f
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of t
Mr. Samuil Eldor in Harrifburg every j
day morning, cn the f?n.e evening arrives at Pa-
triek Cophran's in Shippenfburg, and returns {
frem thence on every ITiurfday : performins; the j
fame routine daily aiin its tour from Philadel- j
phia. mwf j
STICKNEY's PATENT ARCH DOE. [
ANY pcrfon dtfirous ef infdrmation refpeifV
ing this new ccmftruflion, may obtain it j
without delay by application pr. letter, or cth- 0
ife, to John Stickney, mtrchant of Worccf- r
t-*, (Massachusetts) who will make known
the many advantages arising from this manner
of buildings and upon application he will either I
vend a patent right, or attend pericpally to fu- £
perintendthe building ef ajijr*firMyo required. I >
June io, 1797- »eojw.
The Commiiflioncri
carrying into effect the lTxtk article of the
i. trcaty.of amity, commerce and navigation, ex
cluded befween hit Britannic majesty and the United
r States of America, on the 19th day of November,
J 794, having this day constituted their Board,
pursuant and agreeably to the said treaty, do here
t by give notice, that they are ready to proceed to
e bufm«f* accordingly; and they desire that all clafnis
under the laid article (which so far as the fame de
fences the cases thereby provided for, it hereunto
annexed) may be lodged with their Secretary with
out delay.
They farther desire that all fueh claims may not
on'y ftatc in -.vlut manner the; fcveral cases eome
within the defeription of the said article, but also
specially set forth -he nature of the evidence by
1 which the claimantsrefpeiively undertake tofub
• Itantiate the lame.
ExtraS from the said article,
" Whereas itis alledged by divers British mer
" chants, and others his, nvjefty's fuhjtiSs, that
" debts to a confid-rahls araoumt, which iverc bona
" fide contracted, before the peace, still' remain
• " owing to them by citizensor inhabitant's of the
" United States; qnd that by the operation of va
" riotis lawful impediments, since the peace, not
5 " otjy the fuil recovery of the said -debts has been"
" delayed, but #lfo the value and security thereof
" have been in several instances impaired and Icff
" ened, so that by tl»e ordinary course of juiicil!
" proceedings, the British creditors cannot now
" obtain and actually have and receive full ani
" adequate compensation for the lofln and dama
" ges which tney have thereby sustained: It is a
" greed that in all such cases where full compenfa
" tion for such losses and damages cannot for what
" ever reason be a&ujlly attained, had and recei-i
" ved by the said creditors in the ordinary course
" of justice, the United States will make full and
" complete compensation for the fame to the said
" creditors; but it is diftin<9.ly understood, that
" this provision is to extend to such losses only as
" have been occasioned by the lawful impediments
" aforefaid, and is not to extend to losses occasion
" ed by such insolvency of the debtors or other
" causes, as would equally have operated to pro
" duce such loss, if the said impediments had not
" existed ; nor to such losses or damages as have
been occasioned by the manileft delay, ornegli
'• t>encc, or wilful omifiion of the claimant."
By order of the Beard,
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secretary.
Philadelphia, Commissioners' Office,
No. 3 louthSixth-l'treet, May 19,
1797- J 6—Sim
A Cow Stolen
FROM the owner at the corner of Ninth
and Arch streets. She is a deep red
brindle with some white, about ten years
old and very gentle. The person who se
cretes her had best turn her out, as, if legal
evidence can be obtained, he may expert a
rigorous prosecution. TWO DOLLARS
reward will be given to any person who will
deliver the Cow, or give such evidence a
gainst the person keeping her, that he may
be convifted of the fad. Apply at
No. 218, Auch Street.
June 9. tawj w
N O T ICE.
THE fubferiber having sent by the fhipTNancy,
Capt, Perry, the following certificates of the
United States bank flock, to wit:
No. 26,005, to 26,014, inclusive, for three
Ihares each—and the said vessel having been cap
tured on her intended voyage to England, which
will mod probably cccafion the loss of the laid
certificate*, gives this public notice,
rhat he shall apply at the proper offices for a re*
JttWal of them, and that means have been taken
to prevent any improper transfer.
Henry Philips,
No. 11 a, South Front-flreet.
J un e r • 3a\v6w
Houfhold Furniture.
NOW felling by private iale, No. 17 Dock
ftreet— confiftingo; chairs, tabic*, looking
glaiTes, bureaus, hand and fire irons, bedftcads,
feather-beds, carpets, bedding, window curtains,
bed and table linen, kitchen furniture, &c. The
whole in good order, and has only been a few
months in use.
The sale to continue daily 'till the whole is fold,
Ji-ne a §
To Let,
THE BUILDIN(J now occupied by the Bank
of the UNirnD Statu. For »erms en
quire of Edward Garrigues, No. 39, Cherry-ftre;t.
N. B. Also a large, convenient Cellar in a good
situation : Apply as above.
June 15 eotf
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwelling-houfejjio,ooo dollars,
& cafli 30,00b, are 50,80.9
1 ditto 15,000 & cast 15,009 40,000
x dittci 15,000 8c oafh 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,090 & cilh 10,000 so,ooo
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & calh J?900 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000
1 do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
10 do. 1,0.00 - - 10,000
jo do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - ro,o»o
ioo do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. - 19,000
1,000 do. 2$ - 10,000
15*00® do. lo - 150,000
■ t
'6,739 Prizes,
j j,* 61 Blank's.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollari, 400,000
N. B. To favour thofewha pity take a quan
tity of Tickets, th'e prize of 40,ooo,dollars w ill be
the j.a 3T drawn ticket, aud the 30,0x20 the last'
but oni : 1 - - »
And approved notes, securing payment in eirhe?
mon.y or prizes, in ten days after drawing, W'll
be received foi ai.) number not,ly£» than ~;o tick
ets.
This Lattery will afford an elegant specimen ef
theprivate buildings to be erefted in (he.City of
Waftingtoa—Two ber.uuful daGgns ara already
(elected fcr the entire fronts on two of the jHfblic
fquarei; from these drawiup;f it t;. propufed to ere<%
two centre and r our corner buildings,** soon as pcs- .
tble after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fottunaty; adventurers, in
themanuerdeicrihed in tha ftfcctac lor the Hotel
Lottery. A nett dedu<3ion of Jive p«r cent, uill
be made to defray the ncceflary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the furpljs wili maje a p*rt of
the fund intended for sic National Uuiverbty, to
be eteiiled within the city of W^fhingten.
The real fecuritit'given for tic payment of the
Prizes, ar* held by the Prefiderft and two Direi3-
ors of the Ea'ikicf Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the intent of t the lottery.
S/f&SUBL .HI.OJH)£T.
Tiekett may be had at if ■ Bank of CcUm
bia ; of James W.«i #c Co. f jTtimore; of Peter
Oilman, I3cfton ; of John Hef kins, Richmond ;
and of V,'nils, Coo; 1 r'« Ferry.
mwf