of and hiladelphia
Number 1607.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For D R r GOO OS.
i r Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. si,
if.,, j„ j south Front-street,
'"j Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
C South Front-ft»eet.
f Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
tg1 j Au£lion, No. 73 fout'h Front-street.'
Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C. 183 High-street.
PTtdne/Hav J Afternoon—Peter Benfon, No. 74
7 > I south Third-ftrcet.
Thursday J Forenoon-Edward Fox.
t Afternoon—John Connelly.
Fr'Jri« i Forenoon—William Shannon.
' * > Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
To be Sold at Public Au&ion,
On Saturday evening, Nov. 4, '97, at 8 o'clock,
at the Merchants' Coffic-houfe,
dols. cts.
1 Note drawn by James Greonleaf
in favour of and endorsed by Edward
Fox, dated 9th August, 1796, due II th
October last, 1,300
3 do. drawn by said James Green
leaf in favor of and endorsed by Ed
ward Fox dated sth Aueuft, 1796, at
4 month" da{e, 1 payment dols. 2681
13, 1681 14, and 2681 14, amount
together 8044 41
3do do. of fame date, drawn and
endorsed asaforefaid, payable is eight
months, paymenti,dols. 1693 7J each,
amount together 8081 1J
3 do. do. of fame date, drawn and
endorsed as aforefaid, payable in 11
months' payments, dols. 2693 75 each,
amount together 8,081 a 5
IJJOJ 91
j draft drawn by Robert Morris on
John Nicholfon, dated 28th May, 1796,
at 12 months jooo
1 do. drawn as aforefaid, at two
years jooo
I do. drawn by John Nichol
fon, onßobert Morris, dated 28th
May, 1796, at 3 ) ears jooo
1 do. drawn as aforefaid, at 4
years 5000
— *O/300
The said drafts are fecuredby (hares
in the North America Land Company
and endorsed by James Greenleaf
r Note dated Boston, 18th May,
179?, drawn by Thomas Dawes, jun.
in favor of Thomas Gieenleaf, paya
ble rfl January, 1798, ondorfed by Da
niel Greenleat, Henry Newman and
James Greenleaf 2250
1 da. dated Boston, 18th Nov.
drawn by Daniel Greenleaf, in favour
of Thomas Dawes, jun payable ill Jan.
1798,endorfed by Thomas Greenleaf,
Henry Newman,and James Greenleaf 6509
3 Notes, dated Boston, 17th Nov.
1795, drawn by Benjamin Halkell, in
favour of James Greenleaf, payable ill
January, 1799, endorsed Sy said James
Greenleaf and Nahum Fay, dols. Ss°°
1500 —iOOO 80to
3 do. dated Boston, 17th Nov. 1795,
drawn and endcrrfed as aforefaid, paya
ble ift Jan. 1800, one payment, dols.
6200, .5000, 4coo 15400
OniL bond, 2achariah Cox to James Greenleaf,
and aiiigned by him, dated the »ift March, 179?,
in the sum of ten thousand dollars, conditioned tor
the conveyance of 25000 acres of Land, near the
town of Fredprica in Glyn county and state of
Georgia,the said bond full due.
John Connelly, auctioneer.
oa. 18.
To be Sold, by Public Vendue,
On Monday, the 13th day of November next,
at II o'clock in the forenoon, at the late dwel
ling plantation of ALEXANDtR Porter,Efq.
deceased, in the Hundred and County of New-
Castle,
All the Stock of the said Farm,
Confiding of horfet fit for draught or saddle,
colts, fat cattle, milch cows, calves, several
pairs of large and valuable oxen. 6heep and
hogs (all the horned c3ttle and Iheep, being of
a very large and fine breed) and also carts, har
rows, ploughs, and other farming utensils, to
gether with a variety of household furniture.
The conditions of Sale will be made known,
at the time and place aforefaid.
Mary Porter, Admrx.
New Castle Hundred, State of )
Delaware, 0<!l. 20, 1797- 5
0" All persons indebted to the estate of the
feid Alexander Porter, are requested to make
payment, and thole who have demands against
the fame, to produce them duly authenticated,
for settlement.
Ofl. 30. ,-dt
TO J3E SOLD,
And immediate pojfejfion given,
A Convenient well finiihed Brick Tenement,
with a cook house and other out houfes,fitu
ated in a pleasant part of the borough of Wilming
ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
has forty feet front on West-street, and extends
through the square to Pasture-street, on which is
erefled a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. 30.
Philadelphia, 03. 13.
THF. fubffcribers inform their friends and cufto
mcrs in town and country, that their (lores are now
open in the city, and others are daily opening, and
that from the present appearance «f the prevailing
disorder have reason to hope, their friends may
shortly come to the city with perfeCl fifety. By
several late arrivals, numbers have received frefh
supplies of GOODS.
Robert Smith iff Co. P. W. Gallaudet iff Co.
John Davis iff Co. Sitgreaves is French,
Keill iff Smith, George Dob/on,
Wiltbenrer and Smith, Thomaj Ryerfon,
Alex Biftand and Co. T. R. Hardenberg.
Jacob Sperry and Co. John Smith and Co-
Owen iff Jona. Jones, Thomas Orr,
Keppele iff Zantiinger, William Barker iff Co.
Adam Zantzmger, Thomas Armat ~ff Son.
John Fries, 7■ Miller, jun. and Co.
Be-jamin &J. John/on.
Oil. 14 _____
Wanted' to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent -tfill be given ; to be taken for a year, or on
lease for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer.
OS. 17. e°tf
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 2, 179 7 .
For London,
-run quid
WILLIAM PENN,
James Jofiah, Master,
fail with all conven
itiJM&iSX VV ient expedition. For
Freight or Passage, apply to the Captain, or to
Jeffc is? Rotrert Wain.
Oft. 31.
For Charter,
J -»««=■ THS SHIP
J°b n Bulkley,
Samuel Volaris, Majler.
' vessel is built of live oak
J. and cedar, of about 3000
barrels burthen, and ready to receive on board a
cargo.
Jeffe y Robert Wain.
oa. 31. §
For SAVANNAH,
THI FAST SAIL INO SHI P
Swift Packet,
Patrick Gribbin, Majler.
NOW lying at Smith's wharf,
aboveßace-ftreet. Is haudfome
ly accommodated for passengers, and will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or paffage,apply
to the Matter on board, or at No. 95, South
Front-street, or of the fubferibers,
If. y. Frazier.
oa. 28. dtf
For St. Thomas's,
THS DANISH BRIG
Prince Frederick,
Francis Gcolfi, Majler.
ILL fail with all convenient speed, having
the greater part of her cargo ready to go
on board. For Freight or Passage, apply to the
Captain, or to JOSEPH SIMS.
Pel. 28. §<t
For London,
THS smp
Daniel M'Pherfon, Majler.
TO fail with all cont:nicnt speed—a confidera
blc part of her cargo being already engaged.
For terms of Freight or Passage, apply to
Rofs Is? Sim/on.
oa. 27. N «_
For Freight or Charter,
Abel Catherina,
Burthen about 160 tons.
THIS vessel is now ready to receive on board a
cargo, and may be dispatched to any port in Eu
rope or the Mediterranean in eight days.
Apply to the Captain on board, or to the fnbfcri
ber. JAMES YARD.
OA. 19. ■ diet
For Freight or Charter,
T u L GOOD BRIO
S U K. E Y,
Isaac Vredenburg, Maftor ;
NOW lying at Clifford's wharf, and in compleat
order to receive a cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain sn board, or
John Slyrin,
No. 81, Arcli-ftreet.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
2000 wt.of double refined Saltpetre
600 wt. of F F Gnn Powder
300 barrels of Herrings
50 bulhels of Timothy Seed
150 cases of Claret, firft quality
And a quantity of Sherry Wine.
Sept. 29. dtf
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing from on board the
Brig A.ilive, William William*, Matter,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale hy
Jehu HrjUingfivorth Iff Co.
Wilmington, Sept. 21. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
and the brig GAYOSO, are
also for Sale or Charter, and
now ready to rceeive a cargo
onboard, at Wilmington. Apply as above.
Just published,
And to be fold at the Bcokftores of H. Iff P.
Rice, No. 50, Market-street) j. Ormrod,
No. 41, Chefnut-flreet, and W. Young,
corner of Chefnut and Second-streets,
An accurate System of Surveying;
IM WHICH IS CONTA INFD,
1. Decimal fractions, in a plain, concife t
and easy manner.
2. The extraflion of the fqtiare root.
3. Plain trigonometry, redlangular and ofc
lique.
4. All exatS method to cast up the contents
ef lands.
5. Field surveying.
The whole being performed without the use
of scale and compasses, on a table of logarithms.
In which is given some account of the variation
of the needle, and the causes of its attra<slioir.
By SAMUEL MOORE.
Augnft ®4 lawaw
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just received, by Wm. Griff it hs,No. i 7 7, South
Second-street, a frefh supply of >
Genuine Bal/am of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John HiU
(who knowledge as aßotanift procured him
the appellation of the Linnsus of Britain) and »
•onfidered in England as a certain cure for the above
complaints; it is also of Angular afficaay in the
Hooping Cough,
It may also be had retail of W. A. Stokes, No.
61, South Second street, and T. Stuf, 55, New
ftreet, in bottles at 75 cents each.
Wm. Griffiths having observed the happy eJ
fe& of the medicine, (several cases of cures hav
ing come within his own knowledge) and the ereat
demand ifbr It has induced hira to order a large
supply, a part of which he has just received.
Augnftl. iaw3w
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut Street.
The Subscribers have for Sale,
THE FOLLOWING GOODS—-viz.
India Calicos Cordage •
Biftas MouldCi-idUs") ihfmali
• Sutty Romals White 3©ap j boxes
Blue and red do. East India Sug&r
Hunmiums Heavy black Pepp«r
Mulmuls , Holland Gin, in pipes
Do. Handkerchiefs Red & white Port Win*
Sprigged and flowered Old Madeira Wine, fit
fim* Muilins for immediate use
Book Muslins SheiTy
Bed Covers, of printed Claret, in cases
Muslin Taunton Ate
India Peifians Porter
D° re>s 42 qr. cafesGun Powder
Black Taffeties A wrought iron Book
Chinese Sewing Silks Cafe
Eaffc India Hemp
Philips, Cramond, If? Co.
November I. §6t
fofTsale;
bt thi subscribers, No. #l, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Conftjling if
Baftas, of various qualities & prices,
Colfaet Puujum Cloths
Sanahs ®uzz:y do.
Humhums Charconna Dore'a
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagongos Patra Hhkft.
Ginghams Mulmul do.
Guzzenas Bandanaoes
Gurrahs Siflerfpy
Prniafcoes Choppa Romals
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Perliant of various colours
Mock Pulicats
aoo tons SUGAR ,
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings tl? Francis.
gT In the course of a few day t, the PIECE
GOODS, composing the cargo of th*(htp Ganges,
will be exposed for Tale at that large commodious
Store, the northwell corner of Market and Fourth
llreets, where a bale of every fpccict of Goods will
be open. d OA. ji.
LANDI N G,
From on board thi lhip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, from London,
60 tons of the best clean Ruflia
HBMP
60 raflcs of bottled BROWN STOUT.
For Sale by the fubferibert, No. 11, Penn-ftreet.
Willings & Francis.
Oifl. jl. d
Just arrived,
From Port-au-Prince, and for Sale by the fubferi
. bers, No. 21, Penn-ftreet,
642 hogsheads,")
( Prime Coffee
646 bags J
Willings Is? Francis.
Ofl.'ag. i_
Now Landing,
At SrMi* Wharf, from on board the ship Comment,
captain Csamberlain, from Port ou Prince,
35 hogftieads of SUGAR
do. MOLASSES
4 tiercel do.
for Sale, by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
OA. 17. S
James Zs? Richard Smith,
TAICE the liberty of informing their friends
and the public, that they have removed their
(lore to No. 54, South FrontJheii, nettdoor to Ed
ward Fox's Aujlion Room, where they have at
this time for sale, a large and general affortraent ef
European & Eaji India Goods,
Many of which are jnft imported in the Clothier,
William Pcna, &c. kc.
o<fl. ij. 4
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an adl of Congress of the
United States of America, palled at Phila
delphia, the aßth day of May, 1.796 ; laying du
ties on Carriages, for the conveyance of perforr-,
which (hall be kept by or for any perlon, fir hi)
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of passengers, the several duties and
rates following, to wit:
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every Chariot,l* dolt,
upon every Pod Chariot, 12 dolt,
upon every Poll Chaise, 11 dols.
upon every Phaeton,witb or without top,
9 dols.
upon everyCoachee,9 dol<.
upon other Carriages, having paiinelWork
above, with blinds, glafies or curtains,
9 dols.
upon'four wheeled Carriages, having fra
med polls and topi with Heel springs, 6
dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood-
iron springs or jacks, 3 dols.
upon Curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages. With Heel or
iron springs, 3 dole.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 2 dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed polls and tops, and resting up
on wooden spars, 2 dolt.
The Collectors of the Revenue for the firft Sar
vey of the DistriCt of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September next, for
the purpose of receiving the duties ou Carriages, at
Germantown; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efq.
in the County of Montgomery; and at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County i f Sucks ;
of which all persons poffelfed of foch Carriages are
defircd to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will ba grant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the bnfi
nefs of retailing of Wines, in a I»fs quantity, or
in lef6 quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than ao gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorised to grant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Ifcfpe&or of the Revenue of the firft fui
vey of the Dillritflof Pertnfylvaflia,
.Office of Infpeiftioß at ">
Germantow, iatli Sept. 17p7- J
Clocks and Watches,
Of every description, opening for Sale, by
EPHRAIM CLARK,
-*t his Nt<w Ship* Corner of
MARKET and FRONT STREETS.
ALIO
An extensive and general afiortment of
Tsols, Files, and Materials.
Consisting of
Clock and Clock eight day
and thirty hours cast brass, forged work and Pin
ions, Bells and Hands, Cat Gut, screw and draw
Plate* Turkey Stones, Pumice, Emery aud Rot
ten Stone, Springs and GJaffa 5, Chains. Keys, Seals
&c &c. Spring and (landing Clocks.
OA. 17. ' eotf
ROSS Is? SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SOgAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica, }
St. Vincents, £ RUM.
and Bengal j
oa. 27. §
Samuel & Miers Fisher,
ARE NOW OPENING,
At their Warehouse, No. 17, Dock Street, a frefh
alTortment of Woolen and other goods, fu:tablc to
the season, received by the late arrivals from Eng
land.
have also f»r Sale,
Lifbop
Teneriffe
Sherry, and r ln P'P Cs > hh<ls - ""x 1 quar»er calks-
Port Wines, j
AiTorted queen's ware in crates, &c.
»cth mo- 13d. diw^tawjWr.
Insurance Company tf the State of
Pennsylvania.
THE Office it again opened at the corner of
Walnut and Second streets, where applications are
received as mfaal. eo3t OA 18.
TO BE LET—At a moderate Ren t,
The principal part of aHOUSE,
WITHIN a lhort dillanae of the Coffee-houfe,
which has been occupied far the last four months,
confiding of a good dining room and parlour, two
bed rooms and a drefling room, twogarrets, kitch
en, wood vault and cellar, all in excellent order,
fit for the immediate reception of a small family.
None need apply but those who are refpe&ablo and
regular. Inquire at the office of this Gazette.
OA. m- dtf
Want, a Place, 4, a WET NURSE,
A YOUNG Woman, who can be well recom
mended.- Enquire of the Printer.
Odlober ji. v iw
Boston Glal's Manufactory.
THE citizens of the United States are hereby
informed, that the manufacture of Window
Glass is now commented at the Glass House in Bos
ton.
It is needlcfs to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boston Glass, at it it so well known
throughout the United States ttfbe in every refpeA
greatly superior to any ever imported from Europe.
It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
may be constantly had by applying to Cba&les F.
Kurrta, at tie Ghfs House.
Orders from the distant States to be addressed to
Mr. Samuel Goat, Court-street, Boston.
Boston, Sept 30,1797. O 4 —jawrtw
Mtffn. Timothy and Maftn, Charlefifn ; Mljfrs.
Hcdoe and Jioylan, Halifax, W. C. Aleffrt. IVillctt
and 0* Cornier. Norfolk ; Mr. Ellit Price, Alexandria ;
MeJTf. Vundt and Brtrzvn, Baltimore; Mr. Hopkins, |
New-York ; and JVfeJfrs. Hud fun tJ* Goodwin, Hurt
ford; Mr. SeyOiour, Savannah ; are requeued to insert
the above once a iveek 6 weeks. The accounts to le for
warded to tie Editor.
At a Meeting of the Board of
Property, June 6, 1797,
Prefunt John Hall, See'rjr
Francis Johnlhm, R. G. > of land office
Dan. Bf-odhead, S. G-)
Nicholas Hettinger,
Versus >
Samuel Cunningham. )
In this cafe the proof of lervice of notice be
ing infufficient, It isordered thit notice begiv
en in one of the Philadelphia and Ydrk newlpa
pers weekly, for at least eight weeks to the
heirs at aflignees of Samuel Cunningham de
ceased, to atttend the board on the firft Monday
in November next, to Ihew caule why a patent
fiiould not ifiiie to Nicholas llettingei for the
land in queflion.
(A true Copy.)
JOHN HALL,
Secretary of the Lahd Office.
Aug. if. *tawSw.
At the Federal Blast Furnace,
In Carver—for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
Mills.
SEYMOUR's Patent Rollerl.
THEIR faperhrity cortfijls iti being free from
holes and honey-combed places, which are com
monly found in rollers cast in sand, or day
moulds. Theft patent roller) are cast in iron
moulds, prcviotfty healed, and will be found to
be more dense, solid and durable than any rollers
heretofore uftd. Another important advantage
they, have over others, is, that the necks require
no turning, but are immedaltely ftt for use, and
from their accuracy, run with left friflion, and
require itfs water to make them perform their
work. 'lbey may be had by application to the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Good
win, or oftMefjrs. Thatcher and Hay ward.
Boston, dug. 31. Sept. l).——§6l.
This Day is Publilfeed,
BY MelT. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, >nd the
othei Bookfejlers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegant j printed on lVo<vr paper, and Hot
prejfed,
By John Thompfen,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several Skates with each other, and with
that of the United Slates: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent featbres of eaeh Conftitition, and
classing together their rnbft important provisions,
under the several heads of administration j with
Notes andObfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Caroline,
L L. D. and member of Chs Congress of the
United States.
Bedicated to th# People oT the United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
rebreany-6 mwf
Samuel Pleafants Sons,
•A'o. 74, South Secottd-Jlreet,
HAVJi received a lupply of Sealonabte GOODS,
which they are now opepmg for sale, on
reasonable terras. O& i-j 4«r
St. Croix Sugar & Rum,
For Sale by
JOHN NIXON fcf Co.
Oil. 9*6. dst /-*.
To Gentlemen who intend J pending
tie Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. TI4, corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the lata
contagion. Od. 27.—dtf
Ihomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth ftrect, corner of North alley, No. 34,
HAS FOR SALB,
EXCELLENT red Bourdeaux Wine in cases and
boxes, fix years old
White Graves Wine in calks
Ticklenburgs
Russia Sailcloths
Ravens Duck
Bag Linen
Hessians
Diaper and Table Cloth
Empty bags
Cemrnoa German Cloth
An afibrtmentof black coloured Rffcbojss
Fine German Laces
About twelve tons Raffia clean Hemp «
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, In small boxes, for family ufs
Wmdow Glass Ang. 89.
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto ditto Claret in cafe;
Jnft received, and for Sale f>f
Rundle fa Leech.
■*H- 41 • lavrtf
TENERIFFE WINE.
LANDING at Walnut-street wharf, TEN£-
PIFFE WINE, of excellent quality, in pipes and
half pipes, for Tale by JAMES TARD.
*»• >»Bt
City Commijjioners Office,
August 29, 1797.
IN purfuanee ofan Ordinance of the Select and
Common Councils, pal Ted the *id day of May last.
Proposals in writing will be received hy the CitJ
Commiflioners for one month from the ift of Sep*
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for on*
year to commence the firft day of January next, thi
following public property of the city—
The wharf and landing on Vine Street,
Alio on SalTafras,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
chefnnt and Walnut Streets, Braw Sridge, with
the Scale and Filh Houfcs, SpTUce.Pine and Ceda*
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The T a Tern at the middle ferry an Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so mack
thereof as {hall be occupied by any buildings ere&.
Ed for the use of the Colleflor of the Tolls, or b«
necellary for the toll-gates.)
An 6' 3 3tawtn.
THIS DAY WAS PUBLISHED,
And for sale by 7HQ MAS DOBSON, at Ok
Stone House, No. 41, south" Second street,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
ConGfting of a variety of Miscellaneous Pieces for
the lnftru&ion and amufementof YOUNG PER
SONS—SixVolumeshandfomely printed and bound
up ia two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these pieces are
such, that the book needs only to be known to be
univerfalty esteemed one of the inoft valuable pub
lications th.t can be put into tho hands of young
perfoni.
" Delightful talk to rearthe tender thoigbt,
To teach the young idea how to (hoot.
To pour tha frc£h inilrudion o'er the mind,
To oreathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The generous purpose in the glowing brealL"
Thomsow:
August 14. Biwf4w
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON, at the Stone House,
No. 41, south Second ftrect,
Letters and Conversations,
Between federal Young Ladies, on improving and is*
terefling fubje&s.
Translated from the Dutch of Madam it Cu»h*
with alterations and improvements,
Printed onfint paper, andnmtly bound,
Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales ef extraordinary diOrefs, or of desperate «r
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," ami
which it would be for the honor of young ladies v
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, bceaufs
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Penal*
cbaraSer is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publisher was so much pleased with the pera
fal, that he was pcrfuaded he should do a pleasing
ferviee to the community by fending it into circa
lation. August 24 —«nw4w
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Amflerdam and Hamburg, and for sale by
B. y J. Bohlen,
A large affbrtmenl of fine French Cambrics,
Platillas KufliaandDutcftfailcloth
Brittannias Writing, poll, and,print*
Rouanes ing paper
Brown Holland Dutch calf (kins
Checks and (tripes Prime madder
Ticklenburgg Shell'd Barley
Oznahurgs Looking gtafTes
White (heetings Hollow gltfs watt
Diaper Slates
Brown rolls Coffee mills
Umbrellas Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and straw knivo
Black and white laces Toys aflorted in boxes
Bell Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Madeira Wine
July *4- m&thtf
Ad laying Duties on Stamped Vellum
Parchment an'd Paper.
A FEW ccpifs of the above ail may be had ar
he Office of the Cfazeitsof the United States, N»
19, C'lafnut'llreefc July 19.
[VOLVME XIIsjt University of Pennsylvania, i
odoler 27, 1797. j E
THE different Sckools of the University will be
opened on Monday, the 6th of November ; of
wliich aU who are concerned, are requclled to
take notice. .. '•*
By order 0/ tie Faculty. '
WM. ROGERS, Secretly.
Mordecai Lewis,
HAS FOR SALE, |j
At his Store, No. 55, Great lfrock-ftreet,
250 bales of Bengal Goods 11
Containing Baftas
Coffas
Gurrahs
* Moragugungees £
Took?ry
Check and Strip?* ,
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Mamoody
Calicoes
JI boxes Trifh Linens
X do. Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas .
ao caniftcrs Java Sugar 1
i 78 bags black Pepper
116 do. Eafl India Ginger*
100 calks roll Brimstone
yc pipes Madeira Wine
57 calks Giu
A quantity ol Iheathing Copper and Nails.
O(Sober 30. 3»wjw
Wharton and Lewis,
HAVE FOR SALE,
At their f tore and Insurance Office for (hipping,
No. IIJ, South Front-street.
Jamaica Rum, 4th proof, "> entitled to '
AKcant Brandy, ift & id proof j" drawback.
Madeira Wine, and
A few hogflieads of Juniper Berries.
O&ober 31.
- (
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front Street,
HAVE FOR SALE,
joo Hogsheads of prime Georgia Tpbacco,
ALSO,
~ 50 "Pipes of Bonrdeaux Brandy,
10 Pipes of old Port Wine*
oa. 17! KKtftf
From Marseilles.
THE CARGO
Of the flwedilh barque Gtiftavus Adolphus, from
Marseilles, consisting of the following articles,
is difchjrging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
sale by the fubferibers
BRANDY, well flavored, of a, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hoglheads
Ditto, in cases
Frontigniac Wine, in cases ef 50 bottles
OK'vc Oil, of a superior quality, in baikets of 6
and it bottles
Capers
OliVe*
Almonds
Dry Verdigreafe
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) of aS, 30 and 3» inches
Tafieties
Long and (hort white Kid Gloves for \\ omen
Silk Stockings
Handkerchiefs, in imitation of Madrafl
Artificial flowers and Garlaods
Ostrich Feathers
Ribbons
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomat»m
Manna in forts
Cream Tartar. «...
BENJAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANDREWS.
• September 27. eot^
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
' Coffee
Madeira and Teneriffe Wine
For Salt by
Janes Yard,
No. —, South Fourth-ireet.
OA. 6: d 3 w
Imported inthefhipMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Skewell, Matter,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
No. 11 Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy ~j
Iri(h market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS FOR
Sherry Wjoe in pipes and quarter eaflcs
Rota do. ' do-
Pimento in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
15 Dollars Reward.
RAN-AW AY from the Subscriber, on the 29th
inft. an apprentice I.ad, named JOSEPH
BARNET, by trade a paper-maker; about 19
years of age, five feet seven or eight inches high,
of a light compleiign, tics his hair. Had on, and
, took with him, a castor hat, half worn, one brown
mixture cloth coatee, new, one light do. half
■worn, one flriped velvet waitlcoat, with blue
cl.th backs, one do. with fuftian backs, and sun
dry other thin clothes. It is probable he will change
his clothes, as he took a number with him.
Any person apprehending said apprentice, and
securing him so that I can get him again, lhall re
ceive the above reward, and rcafonable charges if
brought home. PETER IBECHTEL.
Lewer Merion township,
Monte-ornery county.
O&ober 30. N i iaw 3W.
All Persons,
INDEBTED to theEftate of Joseph John
son, of Germantown, in the county of Phi-
Jadelphia, deceased, are desired to ftiake imme
diate payment, and those who have any demands
aeainft laid ellate, are desired to bring forw V d
their accounts to either of the fubferibers.
ELIZABETH JOHNSON, S
JOHN JOHNSON, Jun. £ Admimftr s.
JOHN JOHNSON, J
Germantownj 10th mo. i;th, 1797-
oa. 3 >- 11 Jt '
Lately Published,
Jn one vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar in boards) fold
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
Chefnut ftrcets, ' .
A Colleftion of Papers on the fubjea of
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United
c ta tes for a few years past.
CoMby NO.!U WEBSTER, jun
Containing letter, from Doctors
Buel, Taylor, Ramsay, Moufon, Mitch
ell, on contagioß, &c. .See.
Sept. JS- I
Port and Madeira Wine,! *
Now Landing,
By (hip Edward,'from Madeira, and Betsey and
Peggy, from Oporto, in Pipes snd Hogflieads,
For (ale by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALE,
jr—* Thi ship ■
AMITY, ,
Four thousand -barrels burthen, <
[ a excellent order —ready to take i
in a cargo—about three years old.
likewise, .
The Schooner Industry, ,
Burthen 800 barrels, ready also to,receive a car- (
go—and a quantity of ,
Jamaica Rum and Sugars, i
Just landed from the above vclfeli pt South street ,
wharf. ,
Nov I. feoim.
FOR SALE, t
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS, ,
Madeira Wine, firft quality, m <
pipes
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pipes i
Lisbon WINE, in pipes I
NUTMEGS*} ofthe Utefl im P ortat!on ' in fco * cs ]
Spanish Wool, in Bales, suitable for Hatters.
Witlings & Fraflcis,
Penn-ftreet, No. al.
Nov. 1. w&sif gf
POYNTELL's
Paper Hangings Manufactory,
No. 70, Chefnut-ftreet,
Where be has for Sale,
AVERY cxtenfive flock, of every colour, and
of the mofl approved pattern!, suitable for
every part of a house, with great variety of bor
ders to suit.
ALSO— ,
A handsome assortment of the moll falkionaile
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
very bed p'ain Green and plain Blue,
With Punnel Papers and a rich "variety of Borders.
Neveij>ber I. eo6t
N O TIC E.
The holders of certificates of a
loan to tke exiled citizens of the State of South Ca
rolina and Georgia, under an a\sf of Congiefs
July, 1781, are informed, that by lodging the fame
with George Simpfon, Cashier of the Bank of the
United States, they Will be enabled to receive pay
ment of principal and interefl, asfoon as the certi
ficates can be forwarded to Charleston for settle
ment, and orders received for their discharge.
November I. 6t
Young Ladies' Academy
OF PHILADEIPHIA.
THR Public are refpedlfully informed, that
the fa id Academy will be open on Monday, the
sixth of Nov. inft. for the reception f»f pupils.
JOHN POOR, Principal.
N. B. A fehool for boys will be opened on the
evening of said day.-
0a.31, d6t. /
I NOTICE. A
A Meeting of the General Board, of the
Guardians of the Poor, for the city of Phi
ladelphia, and fubutbs, will be held at the
Old City Court-House, on Thursday next,
the 3d of November, at j o'clock, P. M.
Those Gentlemen whose time expired oa
the 25th of September last, and who have
unsettled account* with the Board, are par
ticularly requested to attend.
PETER MIERCKEN, Pres.
Southwarl, 30th 08. 1797. 3'.
In the Press,.
And speedily will be published by William
You-ho, No. 52, Second, the corner of
Chefnut Street,
' A VIEW *
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principle* eftablifted in th* elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M. D.
With an attempt to correA some important er
, rors ef that work, and cafe 9in illuflration, chief
ly feleifled from the records of their practice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
1 Br William Tatis & Chas. Maclean.
To which is fubjeined, a Treatise on the a«Slion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diseases of indirecfl debility.
Andadiflertation on the source* of Epidemicand
Pestilential diseases; in which isattempted topr.ve
by a numerous induAion of fails, that they ne
ver arise from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain slates, or certain viciflitudes of
the atmosphere, by Charles Maclean, of
Calcutta.
. Odl. jt. ftit
Philadelphia, 08. 2\lh, 1797.
\ LL persons desirous to contract to furnilh Ra-
I XI tions and Quarter Mailer's Stores, during the
year 1798, for the troops in Philadelphia, Fort
Mifflin, on Mud Island, Carlisle and Reading, «r
j' any of them, are desired to deliver their proposals,
1 under a sealed cover, oh or before the 20th No
( vembtr next, to
I TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
The Rations to tonfiji of
e I pound Flour or Bread
I pound Beef, or 3-4 of a pound of Pork
d i gill Rum, Brandy or Whiskey
I lb. Candles
f a lb. So -P \Xo every hundred rations
a quarts Vinegar C '
I quart Salt J &ffMjthN
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt. Rhodes, from
Oporto,
Red Port Wine in pipes, hhds. and quarter cafcs
6(3 cwt. Cork, for file by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
July ai. _ _ _ §
To bV&OLD or rented;
\ LARGE 3 Story Brick House, on the
il South fide of Filbert street, between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
• veyor General's Office.
The Building i« 36 feet front and 35 feet deep,
the lot 110 feet deep, with the privilege of a ni«e
feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
- the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
to turn ill. The House is not Raftered, and
may be turned either into one, or two dwelling
, Hovfes. It is suitable for a large Manufactory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
r pcflefiion will be given,
Apply to Wo. ih, Chefnut-Street.
1 Aug. an cod
~The Medical Le&ures
Intfie''tfniverlity of Pennsylvania, ace post
! poned until the last Monday in November
next.
October 14. aaw4w.j
%l)t <sa3€tte*' I
PHILADELPHIA', ; ft
THUkSDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 1.
- P
bi
SIR,
The return of the President of the United 0
States to the feat of government may be e ,
exptfted in the course bf a few days, and ; t
it being the general wish of our fellow citi-' t ]
zens that his reception (hould be such as to t(
manifeft the refpeft due to his office; and f,
the esteem entertained for his person. I a
therefore direfted by the Governor to re- t ]
qutd that you will immediately fugged the 0
fufcjcft to the Artillery and Corps of Horse v
and Infantry belonging to the City and f (
County of Philadelphia and County of v
Bucks, and concert with the proper officers a
the bed plan for rendering the compliment ],
grateful to the President, and honorable to p
our fellow-citizens. j,
I (hall be happy to receive an early, com- f
munication in answer to this letter, and you t
may rely upon every co-operation in my 0
power. - n
I am with great edcem, Sir, ],
Your obedient and humble servant, t
JOS. HAIVMAR, t
. Adjutant General. t
Phila. ift N0t.'1797. j
To William Macpherfon, Esq. t
brigadier general of the t
militia of Pennsylvania. t
sir, <
I have the honor to acknowledge the re- .
ceipt of your communication of this date, r
and (hall immediately in compliance with j
the request of the Governor, proceed to ,
make the necessary arrangements for the re- (
ception of the President of the United States ,
on his refurn to the feat of government. / ,
\ I am, with great refpeft, *" ]
Sir,
Your most obedient ftrvant.
WILLIAM MACPHEIJ.SON,
Brigadier General.
Jofiah Harmar, Esq. Adjutant General
of the Militia of Pennsylvania.
Philadelphia, Nov. id, 1797. »
The commanding officers of the several
regiments to which companies (in uniform)
are attached, and the commanding officers
of the artillery, and troops of horfc of the
city andxounty, are requeded to meet Ge
neral Macpherfon, at his qnarters No. 9,
north Eighth street, on Saturday next, at
12 o'clock. V ;. \
of the United StatX.
Philadelphia, 03. 2 ijl, 1797*
Di. William Currie.
sir,
I (hall now enter into a full examina
tion of the fafts you have dated in your let
ters to me, in proof of the introduftion of
the present fever by the (hip Arethufa, from
Havanna ; by which it will appear, with
what little propriety, or even (hadow of
probability (he has been accused : I (hall
then give a connefted view of the fafts I
have already adduced in my former letters
to capt. Linddrom, to (hew that the disease
proceeded from the ftitnch emitted from the
(now Navigation, from Marfeille^,; and last
ly, suggest fueh rneafures as will be likely to
secure oiir city from a return of that ravag
ing pestilence, or other malignant complaint.
It is agreed that the (hip Arethu'a lod
three persons by disease of some fort, in the
month of June, during her passage from
Jamaica to Havanna. Two of these were
seamen, and died on the 4th of the month,
two days after leaving the fird port. A
negro died on the 16th of June of the Jlux ;
as dated by Stephen Kingdon in his depofi- I
tion taken before the Mayor, on the 14th
• Augud. Though you so confidently refer
to Mr. Kingdon for proof of your assertion,
that all the above persons died of the yellow
fever ; yet you will find, by eonfulting his
deposition, that no mention is made ofthedif
: cafe of the two jirfl who died. It is probable,
ftlat as he was no physician, he did not visit
them while ill s and as he consequently
could not afwrtain their disorder, he did'
not assert when on oath, that they died of
the yellow fever, to please those who said
that was the disease, and raised the outcry
against the (hip. I.have not seen the letter
, of Mr. Fitch to which you also refer for
• proof of the disease having been the yellow
fever ; but from the inaccuracy of your as
' fertion with regard to the deposition of Mr.
Kingston ; I mud beg leave to fee it, before
full credit be given to your ipfe dixit of its
contents. But whatever may have been his
opinion of the nature of the disease of which
the two fifft men died, I may urge the fol
lowing argument againtt the belief of its hav
ing been the yellow fever. This disease we
well know, from the records of 1793, and
1 the experience of the prefent'feafon, spreads
with great malignity and increased virulence,
■ in close hot unventilated plaees ; and where
little attention to cleanlinef6 is observed ;
and we also know all these circumdances
frequently take place on (hip board in the
forecadle where the seamen commonly deep,
f and in the space between decks, when ne
-1 groes are on board, as was the cafe with the
(hip ioquedion ; and yet the disease did not
spread, though there were fifty-fix on board,
t besides the crew eleven in number, and three
f cabin passengers ; which would have increaf
s ed the aftivity of the disease if any had ex-
I ifted. The negro died 011 the i6tb, -but
• he could not have taken the disease from the
' two sailors, because Mr. Kingdon 'fays he
died of the flux ; and Mr. Brien, second
mate of the (hip deposes that he was sick
when taken on board in Jamaica. In the
cafe of the Arethufa, we jind two men die of
a disease supposed to be th e yellow fever ; and
r no one bejlde take it, and under every circvm-
Jlance favorable to its propagation, which I
think a very strong proof that the complaint,
yellow fever or not, was not contagious ; and j a
conTcqnently that the opinion of this "(tiip jes
having imported the disease of (his season, by . fp
communicating inftftion to the fails of the j as
(hip, and cloches of the crew, is unfounded. | tl
From Mr. Brien's deposition, it alio ap- i ?•
pears, that the " clothing, bedding and articles I el
belonging to the deceased were thrown over- j t«
board, and their births cleansed so that the 'c<
opinion of the disease having been introduc- ' p
ed in this way, is further disproved. Dur- , w
ing the time the veffellay at Havanna, from ' w
the 2lft of June to the sth July, I am able i 1
to assert, (he was perfectly cleansed ; a mea- | o
sure which every (hip matter would adopt jo
af;er carrying negroes, and after having had a
three deaths on board. All this period, no w
one was (ick, but all remained well the whole c
voyage, until the arrival of the (hip at the J si
fort. The second mate had indeed a lax !tl
wliich came on after they entered the Capes, si
and he went on (hore to the hospital, where (1
he was cured. The (hip had fifteen days t
passage, and came in Jlone ballajl with her t
hatches open, giving thereby a free current u
for the air from ft en to stern, which cer- i
tainly w»uld have dissipated every particle (
of contagion (if any had been on boaid) re- x
maining after the wa(hing and smoking (lie 1 f
had already underwent. The sailors had j■)
the whole range of the space between decks c
to deep in, but they took no disorder, because r
the feeds of none were there. The pilot hav- t
ing taken ficlc on board the (hip, is thought i
to be a demonstrative proof, that he caught (
the infeftion which had been retained since 1
the 4th June to the 24th July ; but when t
the fails with regard to his illness, and the 1
causes that induced it are considered, I ex- i
pest the idea of infeftion will be laid afkle. <
The pilot has uniformly attributed his indif- '
position to a seVere cold taken by deeping 1
one night, (towards the close of the (hip's
quarantine) in the cabin with the windows
open, when a cold wind blew up, which set
direftly upon him, after a very warm day :
he went to bed well, and awoke with a se
vere hoarseness and pains in his limbs—
thefe were succeeded by a fever, whieh
at firft you said was " inflammatory,
and succeeded by bilious symptoms, giving us
thereby to underdand, that it was no more
thon a common bilious fever, as we witness
every summer from the fame canfe, as that
' to which the pilot wa< exposed. In his cafe,
' the operation cold, in suddenly check-1
ing perspiration, was probably aided by the
1 noxious effefts of the air blown off to his
vessel from the immense mar(hes opposite to
' whieh the (hips lie at tlie fort: This is uot
' mere hypothefis—lt requires no other
1 knowledge, but that which I have derived
from living in a marshy country, to under
stand, that it is a much more probable way
• of accounting for the pilot's inflammatory
\ bilious fever, than by supposing that the eon*-
tagion, lurking in art empty clean vessel for
upwards of 50 days, was the.cause of it.—
Now let me a(k any man, whether, if any
eontagion had been left by the two sailors
who died on the 4th June ; the reft of the
" crew, and efpeeially the hands (hipped in
their place, who were exposed to it all the
™ remaining part of the voyage until her ar-
rival here, would not have been affefted
j thereby ; and yet they all remained well !
'' In your letter of the 24th August, you fay,
" On the 27th July, potwith(\anding the
8 pilot's subsequent recovery, the symptoms
e of the disease unfolded their malignant na
e ture, and coftvmced me his disease was the
yellow fever of Wejt-India origin." Pray
0 what were these " malignant symptoms,"
>" that attended V this inflammatory fever, fuc
" cetded by bilious symptoms" ? Did con-
It fift of the black vomit, of a bleeding at the
e mouth or nose, or a purging of blood, or livid
n spots upon his body, which many of us have
e seen accompany the disease of this season ?
1, I will take upon m« to answer, that none of
thefe symptoms accompanied his cafe, or he
S would not have been well, as you dated, in
i- five days ; and I have no doubt, had you
h not gone too far to retraft, you would ilill
:r allow the mild name firft given to the com
1, plaint to be the proper one. But here I
'■v some to the point. The pilot, you fay,
is took the yellow fever from the (hip. Now
f- granting this, let me a(k, if his disorder was
:, so " malignant" as you (late, why, in the
it name of cause and effeft, did he not give it
y to those who vilited him, or to his friends
d' who condantly nursed and surrounded him,
>f inhaling his " malignant" exhalations for the
d five days he was confined ? If it had been
y the real yellow fever, it certainly could not
;r have failed to affeft all or most of those who
>r were exposed. The disease would confe
w feqnently have gone on to spread among the
f- members of the family ; afterwards to the
r. neighbors, and finally the whole quarter of
re the diftrift of Southwark would have firft
ts fuffered. Shippen-ftreet, and not Pine and
is Penn-dreets,would then have become the fo
h cus, from whence the malady would have
I- spread to the other parts of the city. But
v- did any thing like this take place ? No—
re None of his attendants, or friends who vifit
d ed the pilot, took sick. It was not thus
Is with the malignant fever described by Dr.
e, Chifholm of Grenada, which wat imported
re from Boullam ; for it appears from theex
-1 ; trafts you have givenfrom his work, that all
es those who visited the infefted (hip, caught
le the disease, and five sailors, out of the firft
p, fix who went on board, did. The fame ra
e- pidity of propagation is remarked in the
le yellow fever of 1794, at N. Thofe
ot who firft took it. gave it to others, and thus
d, it went en. These fafts fully refute yo<ir
ee opinion. " ■ Ignorant of the laws ofconta
if- gion," as I may be, I will refer the cafe to
x- any unprejudiced person (and to a physician
ut in preference) whether under the circum
be (lancet above dated, with regard to the pi
be lot of the Arethufa, favorable to an increased
id aftivity of the contagion, it were even pof
:k fible to escape catching " a malignant yellow
be fever" if pent up with a patient five days and
of nights in his chamber ? And yet we fee an
id ipftance of a fever, formally declared of the
v- above kind, prove as innocent as an inr*rmit-
I tent. What does this prove, the
it, supposed formidably disease wat no more tlian
a common bilious fever from marjby exhalations, '
excited into aftion by a sudden check of per
spiration, from which hundreds are annually
affefted in this city and vicinity, during
the summer and autumn. You date that
!' the crew of the Arethufa, consisting of
eleven hands, left the vessel immediately af
ter her arrival in port, having previously
carried with them their chests, wearing ap
parel and bedding, and that the light fails,
which are often used far bedding by marines,
were deposited in Mr. Bridge's fail-loft.—
These fails (you fay) alone, without any
other infefted article, were fufficient te give
origin to the awful difeafe."-i-Here let me
ask you, how will you prove these fails
were aftually used for'the bedding of the
crew, as you insinuate they often are ; and
suppose they had been used as bedding on
the voyage, how would that make them fuf
ficient to produce the disease when taken on
shore ; what infection was smothered lip in
them ? Did you ever enquire whether the
two men who died forty days before, slept
upon these fails and thus infefted them ?
And how do you know, that these fails
( which you do not fay were adually slept on)
were not frequently and solely used for their
proper purpose during the voyage ? Tho'
j you mud have been conscious of the necessity
of making these enquiries, yet you have
never made them ; and still wiflt to impress
the public with an opinion, that they were
impregnated with the infection which has
spread through the city. But it must be
remembered that not aJingleperfon tookfick in
the fail-loft from handling these fails ; and it
has never been proved, that a single person
in the various lodging houses where the
eleven sailors of the ship difperffi themselves,
was affefted from the supposed infefted bed
ding and chests having been opened among
them. These fafts prove, therefore,' that
these fails were not " fufficient to give rife
to the awful disease and that the supposed
danger of the chests and bedding was a mere
illusion brought forward to give an apparent
authority to your assertion with those who do
not think : for with men who do reflect before
they adopt an opinion of such importance,
your mere assertion, that certain fails from on
: board a vessel, about which you know nothing
i ctrtain, were capable " alone" to produce the
: yellow fever, will have but little weight.
, In your letter of the 24th August, you
■ fay the mate of the brig Iris, the cool, and
: three of the hands, were attacked in fue
> cession. The cock vomited matter as black
> as ink. On the 29th August, you mention
t only one of the above, whose cafe proved
r unequivocally to be the yellow fever, of trs
-1 pical origin. Why this inaccuracy in the
- repetition of fads, if you ar- well allured
f of them ? and if not, how criminal to raise
1 3 noise again ft a ship, to the injury of sci
ence, for the fake of gratifying the preju
r dices of the people, and to obtain a little
- temporary eclat.
f I stated ta the public my opinion, that
s the flench perceived by the neighbours, if
e suing from the snow Navigation, probably
I affefted Mr. Latimer, his man, and the
e people of the brig Iris. You fay, you
- " believe they received the contagion from
i certain articles brought on shore from the
- Arethufa, but Ido not believe it was con
, veyed to them, as yon suppose, by the east
e wind, but by contad." In your next pub
s licabion you fay, " while the brig Iris from
- Oporto was unloading, the crtw of the
e Arethufa had to pass across that vessel to
y get on Ihore with their chests and bedding ;
" and it is natural to suppose, as some bungs
■- flew out of the wine cajls, and the mariners
1- were making merry, that some of the crew of
e the Arethufa also bartook of their cheer with
d them. Mr. Latimer, Mr. Lewis, and others*
e might have received the contagiou from.paffing
? near those people with their infefted mate
>f rials ; those who work in fail lofts from her
e fails qnd those of the Hind, and this I a m
n sure, is one of the ways that the disease
u now continues to be propagated." Hera
II again I will bring you to the touohtftone,
1- by asking upon what grounds your belief
I is founded, that Mr. Latimer, or his man,
r, or Mr. Lewis, came is contaft with the
v supposed infefted articles ? The chests of
is the sailors and their bedding, must have
le pasTed over the deck of the brig Iris, but
it will any one imagine they would have been
Is permitted a moment to lumber that vessel,
1, already no doubt filled with her own goods ?
ie or that any of the' men would have been
n allowed to break off from work, und turn
>t to drinking with strangers accidentally paf
o sing .' But granting they did flop (which
:- you never heard of, though >in your power
ie to ascertain the faft) what infeftion was to
ie be communicated by their chests or bed
>f ding ? Did you ever inquire whether the
ft people who had died mora than forty days
d before the ship arrived at the wharf, had
j- any oonneftion with the clothes, &c. of the
re late crew ? or whether they were never
it dried or washed after those deaths ? Befrde,
- will any reasonable man suppose (even
t- granting the Arethufa to have been as in
is fefted as the at Grenada, or a hof
r. pital (hip) that these .sailors by flopping a
d moment on the deck of a Vessel, or by mcrc
ly palling others in the flreet or wharf, could
II infeft them from their clothes, and vet the
it people with whom they lodged, aiid who
■ft were exposed to the contagion of the fame
a- clothes and bedding, in a confined, dirty
ie hcufc (as the rendezvous of sailors cotoimon
fe ly are) would remain free? And yet you
is have never attempted to hy any of these
tir were infefted, though the faft could have
a- been lo easily ascertained, and though it
to was so necessary to trace the progress of the
in disease which you faidwas imported by these
n- clothes. The perfeft freedom from disease
»i- whichthefemen enjoyed aftertheir discharge
:d from the Arethufa, as well as those who
f- must have been much more exposed to the
w supposed infeftion of their clothes and bed
id ding in tht,ir lodgings, than the people of
in the Iris from a momentary exposure thereto in
be the open air, njuft prove fully to the fatisfac
t- tion of every unprejudiced mind, " able to
:ie discern the connexion between cause and ef
»n feft," (to use your favourite expression) thatt'vcrew of the Iris tnaid nnt have i>een mide
tlls "sl«3ged caufc. The fieknefa.
», o. these men, may, in my humble opinion,
be rationally and fairly accounted for, by
iefiefling upon their known ai)d acknowled
ged habits of intoxication ; tlieir imprudent
condiiftjn bathing, while under the com
•bjned ertedts of liquor and hard work ; and
finally, by fleepiug- upon "the newly washed
deck. These causes not only " might"
but ww.y, have been Sufficient to have pro
duced a malignant fevir in or any o
.ther 1 person ; if the Arethufa had never been
■ Within a hundred miles of them ; and the
of that {hip to the Iris it an ac
•eidental circumstance no friorc conne&ed
•with the sickness of the latter's crew, than
with the reign of any particular planet
What fort of proof is your afTertion, that
Mr. Latimer, and Mr. Lewis, might have
( received the contagion from pafiing near the
sailors ! Beside I C3n prove that Mr. Lewis
was out of town when the crew were dis
charged ; and all the supposed infe&ed ma
terials were removed ; he returned on the
30th July (6 days after the Arethufa ar
rived) and on the firft of August, the
day of his attach, he complained much of the
flench from the snow Navigation, and ask
ed with some anxiety, how long file had
been at the wharf. Three, men who were
about the fame time difeharging flour from
a fliallop, ar.d two men unloading weod
nigh the fnnw, and who took the disease
from the flench, were all out of town at the
time the crew of the Are;hufa were dischar
ged. 1 have before Hated these objeftions,
but you have never noticed them. You as
sert that Mr. Latimer's man was sick at the
the snow began to unload, which was :
on the 27th of July, and infinnated that he '
could not have taken the disease from her ; 1
but I am able to prove that he was on the 1
wharf on the 29th, at the very time the 1
ftencb from the snow was strongest ; and i
here 1 may observe. that if it b> supposed <
only one person inffty, who passed the snow, \
while her cargo was difeharging, was high- v
ly disposed to take the disease, it would ac- .1
count for its appearance soon after, in feve- t
ral parts of the city, and even at South wark <i
and Kensington. However, medical men d
will be better able to determine this point, b
As to the fails of the Arethufa deposited f
' in Mr. Bridge' 3 Loft, I have already dated r
that no one took sick from handling them, ti
And tho' you fay, " they were alone fuffi- n
cient to give rife to the awful disease yet
very little weightwill be connedted with that tl
mere afTertion, when opposed by such plain lc
well attested fa£h; Suppose the physicians ir
of Philadelphia, half a century hence, or t<
those of Europe at thi present time, would cl
wish to investigate the origin of the disease g
of this year, does any person «f reflection ft:
believe, they would be fatisfied as to the
certainty of its having been imported by tl
these clothes and fails, because a physician e:
said he believed the disease "was propagated e<
in this way ; nay, that he was "sure" of w
it : and that people many miles off might T
have reeeived the contagion from paffifig v<
near them ? Would such reasoning pass > hi
Weuld not the fads be demanded ? Certain- al;
ly they would ; and these fafts oppose eve- cr
ry thing you have said as to the importation to
of the disease by the Arethufa. nc
The crew of the Iris, that lay at Mr. fa
RufTel's wharf, as did the Arethufa did not an
take sick from the infS'ion blown off from ra
the bedding, or out of the key holes of the ot
ehefts of the latters crew, as they passed o- m:
▼er the decks ; but either from the flench A
or sou} air emittedfr*m the snow, and blown th
by the N. E. winds ; or from their frequent "vie
intoxication with Port wine, with which er<
the brig was loaded ; and from their bathing
in the river while under its effefb, and thi
while warm from work. It was obfervt dby an
several who are now alive, and will prove W3
what I fav, that the sailors were frequently an<
seen drinking wine, and after coming out ret
of the river, they would wash the deck, and ha'
then sleep oif them without any covering, we
exposed to the damp from the deck, and the ma
heavy dews that fall - at that season. I sub- rcti
mit it to any unprejudiced physician, or to fell
any other, praflicallyacquailited with bilious bu:
fevers, whether this conduit was not more the
likely to produce a malignant bilious fever, fa
than the cause you mention. You acknow- rig
ledge to have pueforibed for two of the crew doi
in a Jlate of infen/ili/ity from drink, but you Aar
fay they were well the next day ; now may I
not this very debauch have lain the founda hav
tjon for their subsequent attack of the fe- of
ver they fuffered ; for perhaps you will find, hoj
upon inquiry that these very men were the anj
persons whom you fay, firft took the fever ar;
from the Crew of the Arethufa palling them.
And here I mull remark, that you ought to w h.
* have ascertained this fa6t, while tracing the ra t<
origin of the disease, as it is necefTary to
establish your opinion. It is indeed aftonifti- evei
ing, that, with these fa&s before you, (for pof
you could not have been ignorant of them, ov e
had you made the proper inquiries before so boa
confidently aflerting your opinion,) you t
should suppose the m«n were infe&ed by the ' wa
Arethufa's crew, and knowing, as every hie
oine knows, that intoxication and subsequent and
exposure to cold and damps, are the mod ed 1
potent causes of autumnal diseases; but leav
granting that these people really had the judi
yellow fever, they must have taken it from as 1
the snow Navigation, as the stench from her and
was then, perceived at the wharf where she w *r
lay, which was about 20 yards to the south- the
ward of the ffct, where two men lock the f'' or
disorder from the fame cause as mentioned f° r
above. B. WYNKOOP. h*e:
\ [To be concluded in our next
IV S. an "
CALCUTTA, January 21.
The Swallow has returned to Madras wre<
from Trincomale, after a surprising voyage ; that
32 hours going, and days returning. as t
The American ship Venus, captain John the
Campbell, of and from Boston, is now at witt
Cochin under repair, her leaky situation hav- fhou
ing rendered her incapable of proceeding tp as tl
nsfc Bombay to which place (he was destined
jic»3 leaving Columbo, according to our lail
ion, vices from that place. N
by It seems to be the general opinion, tl
led- admiral Sereey's squadron has gone back
lent Mauritius ; both from the time allotted th.
om- for cruizing (4 months) being expired, a
and the neceflky of repairing the heavy damac
, „ ! iey - a uftainod ln engagement wi
ht the Arrogant and Victorious.
>ro- 0n Saturday last, a very handsome ship
'o- 800 tons burthen, named the India, w
sen launched from the yard of MelTrs. Ed wait
the Gillett, and Larkins.
Ac- It is with much concern we relate t :
ted loss of hon. company's armed fehooner tl
lan Ganges, commanded by Mr. Wade, a brant
• Pilot on this establishment. The partic
hat lars of this event are as follow :
ive The Ganges came to an anchor on tl
the evening of the nth curt, in about fix fatho,
wis water, to the eastward of Lacaip's channel
lit- Ihe Laurel was then about foijr leagues di
na- tant further in the offing, in a fouth-eaflerl
direaron. About 8 o'clock at night, whi]
ar- Mr. Wade and his officers were on deck,
the servant gave notice than a diftgreeabfe fme
he of burning oil and smoke was perceptible i
k- the cabin. On going below" the smoke ap
ad peared to be coming from aft. The gun
:re room was immediately cleared, and on open
>m ing the scuttle of the after gun-room, th
° r e rufiled out with great violence, an<
ife plainly indicated that to be the quarte
he where the mifchief lay.
ir- Mr. Wade prudently direfted all the car
is, tricge powdefthat was in'thc gun-room anc
if- cabin to be quickly removed and csrrried for
he ward, while himfelf, his officers, and the mod
as aftive of his people were employed iu throw
he ing byckets 0 f water into the after gun
•; room. Their efforts were greatly impeded
le by the Suffocating vapour that affaijed them,
le which increased so much as soon to render
id it wholly impossible to continue below, and
■d compelled Mr. Wade and those who were
v, with him in the gun-room to make' their
1- way upon deck. The fire had now kind
:- led into flame, and was burfling forth from
;- the cabin windows : but Mr. Wade still in
k bulged the hope of being able to get it un
n der ; and continued to employ every pofli
:. ble exertion for that purpose ; but at the
d fame time, as a mcafure of prudence, he di
d rested his officers to get the boat out, and
. to keep her clear a little a-head of the schoo
ner.
t The boat was no got over the fide,
t than thirty or forty pfople impetuously
1 leaped on board ; and the officers found it
s. indispensably necessary to put off, in order
r to prevent the boat from being further fur
-1 charged, for it was not without great dan
: ger that (he earried the number by which
1 she was already crowded.
: Mr. Wade, and those who remained with
' the fehooner, persevered in the mod spirited
\ exertions to extinguish the fire ; but it gain-
I ed ground in spite of all their efforts, and
F wa» rapidly extending from aft forward.
The people, every moment in dread of the
vessel blowing up, crowded forward upon
1 her bows, bowsprit, jib-boom, &c. In this
alarming situation Mi*. Wade with great
composure and presence of mind, proceeded
to prepare rafts. He exhorted the people
not to despair, reminding them that their
fafety depended on their own exertions,
and encouraging them to assist in making
rafts. He, his two boatswains, and some
others were stepping aft to cut away the
main-mafl that it might serve as a last spar.
At this inflant, the fire communicated to
the magazine, which exploded with great
violence, tearing up the deck from the taff
erel to several feet before the main-mafl.
By this accident four men were killed,
the second boatswain f?hd his leg brokenj
and Mr. \yade was thrown several feet for
ward upon deck ; he was severely bruised,
and lay for some time insensible. At length
recovering himfelf, he found that the flames
had nearly ceased, mod of the parts that
were on fire having been blown up with the
magazine ; he was encouraged therefore to
renew his efforts to save the remains of the
fehooner ; but unfortunately a part of the
burning materials had been carried up, by
the explosion of the magazine, into the'
main-top, and this communicating to the
ringing, set the whole on fire, which falling
down from time to time, re-kindled the
flame in various parts of the hull; and most
of the water buckets and other implements 1
having be?n blown overboard, the exertions I
of the people became less effeilual, and no 1
hope now remained of being able' to save
any part of the wreck, that might serve as
a raft for those who remained.
The flames extending over nearly the
whole of the wreck, left no time to delihe- t
rate, and but little for a lad-exertion. A *
fheep-peu, pieces of plank, spars, or what- c
ever cou.d be met with to answer the pur- r
pose, were hastily lashed together, and put '
overboard as a raft, to which all the nfen on c
board, amounting to forty-nine, were oblig- c
cd to commit their fafety. The pooi* boat- t
twain who, from his broken leg, was una- I
ble almost to move, was assisted to the raft; 0
and all hands having got hold, it was push- c
ed from along fide : but immediately before 0
leaving the fehooner, Mr. Wade had very c
judiciously ordered the cable to be cut, that n
as it was ebb tide the wreck of the fehooner d
and the raft might drift out together to
wards the Laurel, and that the light from
the burning wreck might guide the boats
from that ship in the track to find them ; 1
for as thtry had fired guns of distress on the
breaking out of the fire, and as they knew
the light must be seen from the Laurel,
they confided in her coming to their assist- b
ance. p
The raft and the wreck continued drift- f:
ing with the ebb tide, within pistol-shot of a
each other, for about two hours, when the ! tl
wreck suddenly went down : a circumstance ' I
that rendered their situation more dismal, ' a
as the disappearance of the light lessened ; It
the chance of the expected boats falling in h
with them. Mr. Wade proposed that tl;*y • Q
should now and then raise a general fliout, y
as the boats might perhaps be within hear- tl
—' ;'*--v'..v •• ••' > -. ,
-lflo fug, thougfl they might not be able to d
t ail- cern them. T'firs expedient was. readi
adopted. After the elapse of a third ho
that tin-trie water, pafied under an awful anxiet
:k to i the found of the pulling of oars iafpir,
hem ; them with uafpcakible joy and in t
and | course of a quarter of an hour they we
ages ; taken up by' the boats, and fafely carrii
tfith Oil board the Laurel, where they vvere t
ceived with the kindness d.ue to their mi
p of fortunes.
was Ihe boat which put off from the Qiinrreslu
ids, reached tl}" Laurel f'-rne time hefore. Tt w
found thar she had taken on b nrd thirty- eigl
the P^'" ons > °f whom reached .the Laurel
the
i Mr. Wade, hU officer and fame of'his mei
, nc[ i embarked on board their boat fr«,/ the L?nr
icu- oil Friday last, to ret urn to u, where the
arrived oil Monday afternoon
the . We are happy to underfti'nd;' that Mr. Wa<(
iom | "hkely to get f ion the better oPhis bruise.
els. 1 e whose Jejr was fluttered,has un
' j dergone ainpuiution on board the .Laurel, and i
",1 n a fair way of" recovery. An .European sol
'.y i dier, a lascar, and two by th
Hie j exolofion of the magazine, are the orjly live
, a i loft.
lell i ca »le of the fire on board the Qaqges i
io ' bribed to the spontaneous combuP.ibn of
tp- f' ni " q" anti '>' of wood oil, contained in a dttb
in- 'T ° r leathern j"' whi C ll was flowed in th,
. after gun room. A fn-e originating from ;
en- ! like eaufe occurred in the arfeno! in Fort Wil
:he ■ ham, about eight years ago .The experiment;
nd : of m Oeovgi, an iVeqions philofnpher. hav<
ter fully illustrated the fuhjeil of the inflammation
of certain oils, and many other fubftances.-.i hen
ir placed in particular circ'Jmftanees, and has efta
blifli'd beyond question the occurrence of fpon
na tjneo'i.t combustion. In the cafe of the Ganges
>r- schooner.it is hardly pofiible that the firecould
ift I have originated from anv other cause, as Mr.
w - | Wade ftriiftly prohibited fire in any shape from
n- | being carried below, and the only light allowed
I woi a candle in the hatchway, under the charge
; of a centinel.
n. ! __
By this .day VIM-aiL
NEW-YORK, November i.
We biive received a copy of the a.S of the Bri
m tiQi Parliament for carrying into effefl the treaty
11- with the United Stales. .At this aiS is of jmmedi
l_ ate confequtnce to the merchants, we (hall detail
J. the whole fn the Commercial AdveHifer. In tke
mean time we note the following particular".
y Sr(7.l. To have ihe benefit of the treaty, Amer -
I- ienn vefleli trading to Great Britain must be own
d td by fubjeils of the United States—and the maf
>- ter and three fourths of the fesmen must also be
fuhjefls of the United States
Sea- 11. GoocU imported in fueh veflcls must be
' fueh as are permitted to be brought from foreign
Y countries, and pay the Joweft duties imposed on
it imported goods.
. r Sea. 111. Pig iron, bar iron, pitch, tar, turpen
tine, ro(in K potash, pearlafh, mahogany, masts,
yards, (laves and unmanufaSurcd
• goods, tke produce of the United States, may be
n imported on paying the customary duties, with
or without the usual certificate,
h Sed. IV. The duties on wheat, meal,
d flour, rye, barley, betr, or bigg, oats,
. oatmeal, pease, beans and Indian corn, are
j to be regulated by the Table Dr. in the ad
. of ji, George 111.
e Sett. V. Oil, blubber, whale fins, and i
i spermaceti, may be imported, paying the
s customary duties on them when imported in
t British bottoms. 'j
1 Se9. VI. Tobacco and Snuff may be al
: so imported, on paying the customary du
ties, and may be war«houf&l and exported
, under the usual regulations.
; Scß. VII. Rice may be imported, on
: paying eight ready money perhundred
and may be warehoused under the joint lock
of the king and importer; and if imported
into London, Bristol, Portsmouth, Cowes,
Liverpool, Lancaster, Falmouth, Poole,
White haven, Hull, Greenock or Port
Glasgow, it maybe landed without paying
duty, and warehoused. If taken out for j
home consumption, it pays full duties.' It
may be exported duty free.
Sefl. IX. Goods exported entitled to
the usual drawbacks.
Scd. X. Foreign hemp and iron expor
ted to the United States entitled to draw
back. ,
Scß. XI. This fe&ion fays the counter
vailing duty of ten per cent on goods impor
ted in American bottoms—That is, ten per
cent is added to the duties now laid on goods
imported in British bottoms—But this by
Seft. 12 th. does not extend to the additional i
duties imposed the last feilion of Parliament.
The ten per cent islaid f irti the old duties.
Sea. XVII. A countervailing duty of ]
two {hillings a ton laid on American vefftls,
to take place January sth 1798. This for
the present extends only to vessels catering t
British ports in Europe. r
f
Messrs. M'Lean & Lang, t
The colleftor observes in your paper of t
this morning, a piece figfled An Under- si
writer, who mentions,' " I am informed o
our custom-house has lately undertaken to a
require of vessels this said paper before a t
clearance ean be obtained : how far the I
officers to whom the management of that I
department is entrusted, are warranted in a
this step, I will not presume to determine ; b
but it is much to be questioned, whether o
our government has authorised, and will not ft
condemn a measure so impolitic and danger- k
ous to the hopes and interests of our mer
chants and underwriters." In this he is b
not correft—The cuftonj-houfe has not un- tl
dertaken to require the paper alluded to. it
I am, gentlemen,
1 Ydur ob't fcrvant, b
W. W. M. d. c. b
TuelHay morning, 3 1 ft Odt. lc
- Messrs. M'Lean & Lang, p
The schooner Nancy, captain Turnbull, 01
bound to NeA' Y«rk from Bourdeaux, has
put into Boston in distress. This is the
fame vessel which, by order of Felix Coffin
and Charles Dubern, carried the crew of
the ship Fair American from Nantz to
Bourdeaux ; at which place she was funk,
and the crew of the above ship left in a help
less and forlorn situation—some of whom,
however, some time Cnce arrived here, and
others shipped themselves on board of other
vessels. It is strongly conjedifred, that »,
the dettru&ion of this vessel was prenaedi-
dtf- tated, as she was so much of a wreck as t
"My render it Unfafe to go to sea in her
h ° Ur Yours, &c-. ■ '
********
Mr.cd , - '
the ' On the 20th day of May, in the ve;
i * 7 ? 4 \ S , a , b T or) 4bury, aged three yeai
ned and a half, daughter to Kent. Woodbury, i
■ ft' Concord, Vermont, got . button into he
mil - | throat, of the fi/e of a copper, whiph rc
, t rained there until Oft. the 6th ihft. whe
Z,, • fte d'feharged it by vomiting. The butto
was wore thin ,n one place. The whol
f in time that it was in hfcf- throat is three yeats
4 months and sixteen days. The above i
Itn , matter of faft.
nrel The following peifoils received fentenc
ney et the Supreme Court on Saturday last
ade Txr ßf "j ami ' n Jackson, a neg r o slave of Jatne
fe3 } or burglary ;to be imprifonec
un- tor llfe ln 'he Rate prifoii at hard labor,
dis James Dowly, William Beatty, Jams)
l il- Forfhce, ror grand larceny ; to be imprifon
the ed in like manner for thre years.
v « William Augustine Dundas, for an aff
|;s ® u,t and battery ; with intent to murder j
P a fined jo dollars, and to be confined in the
»b- co 'fimon jail of this city Tor fix months, and
the tnen be bound to keep the peace for seven
1 a years, himfelf in 1000 dollars, and two fure
'il- ties each in 500 dollars.
nti Died-, yesterday morning, much regret-
Jn ted > r - Robert Mac Gregor, late of
sn Albany, merchant, the only brother of
!a- M r - Coll Mac Gregor, ps this city.
res NEW-LONDON, Oa. 18.
'ld On Friday she ijth ult. a small distance
,m ? m Newburgh, a man by the name of
~| Birchfield wis drowned. He was from the
g e vveft of England, had a wife and five small
childien, and was his way to Albany oti
eg boaixl of a small yeffel, when the boom
swept him overboard, and he was drowned
beiorc any afiiftance could be given.
BOSTON, O&ober 26.
i Ihe fiift battalion on the federal quota,
ty j ordered to We in readiness by adt of congress,
; were mustered yesterday for review. They
ie w . er . e ''ommanded by major Russell, and ex
j hibited, in the refp«aability of their appear
r. ance, aud she promptitude and alacrity with
n- which they turned out, an attachment to
£ be laws, and conftitHted authorities, that
""j was truly gratifying—As soldiers, and as
, e patriots, they equally merit the tribute of
n public commendation.
LYNCHBURG, (Vir.) Oftober 23.
s< MARRIED—On Wednefdsy fe'night
d at Montecello, Mr. John Epps, ofChefter
e field, to the very amiable and accomplished
h Mis« Polly Jefferson, yonugeft daughter
of the hon. Thomas Jefferfon, Esquire.
1 — - | „ I,mm.
; Xfce dsa3ette»
i| PHILADELPHIA,
e THURSDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 3.
1 ■ " ■■
Yesterday morning his Excellency Robert
|_ Liflon Esq.' fat out on a visit to General
. Washington, at Mount Vernon.
J
Sylvanus Bourne, Ffq. Consul General to
1 the Batavian Republic, with his lady, failed
\ from Chester on Sunday last, in the ship
c Phoenix, for Amsterdam,
' GAZETTE MARINE. LIST.
t :
c PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
r 1
! ARRIVED, DAYS.
, Ship Elizabeth, Brav, Havre 89
I Eagle, Kirkpatrick, Londonderry 91
Ship Hambufgh Packet, Swain, come up
from the Hook.
CLEARED.
Brig Eagle, Shields, Hifpaniola
New-Tori November I.
ARRIVED. DAY S
Ship Nancy, Johnfton, Jamaica 20
Warren ditto
Port Mary, Packwood, Liverpool j
Sch'r Alligator, Feltan, Grand Bahama -
Illands
Ext raft from the logbook »f the ship Port
Mary, captain Packwood.
Sept. 30. lat. 50, 07, long, x 1,00, spoke j,
the French privateer brig, of 18 guns, La- V
rale Hoche, captain Laboree, out 12 days Cl
from L'Orient, who took the captain with Cl
the (hip's papers oa board, and after a dtten- *
tion of two hours, and very polite treatment, n
sent him on board again with captain Pines,
of the English brig Catharine, of London,
and two of his people, which they had cap
tured one day before, on his passage from
Bristol to Grenada, out 14 days. Odiober »,
11, spoke the ship George Washington, of \
and from Baltimore, captain Donaldfon, m
bound to Rotterdam, out 32 days, all well, dr
on board of which captain Pines went pas
senger on his way to Bristol, lat. 39, 01. or
long. 26, 36. or
The above privateer boarded, three days
before, three American vessels, and fuffered
them to proceed on their passage without ~
molestation.
OA. 19 —spoke fchr. Hannah, of Mar
blehead, Philip Beffon, master, out 4 days, W!
bound to Guadaloupe, all well, lat. 39 o, K
long. 62 30.
Same day, spoke the brig Mary, capt. |
Parks, from Malaga, bound to New York, \\
out 55 days, all well.
For sale by the Subscriber,
No. S9, South Third street,
A few casks of high proof Brandy
60 Tierce* frefh Rice I
40 Boxes of Chocolate ,
A larjje quantity of airorted window glafj, and W1
200 pieces fail cloth, No. I to 8 at
Ravens Duck, Mace and Gum Senegal.
Samuel Brcck, 3un.
N. B An excellent Cotr.pting Hdufe to let on
R.o!l»'s wharr".
Novemler i 6t«od I
WINDSOR, (VermuntJOit 20
Copy of a letter hem Gen. Ira Allen,to his.fn-mj
in this town.
N °- UZ,.StHr.J, Lau'.n, Jify i, .
yC?r 1 fad the ccilrtof admiralty the mod lHsnoui 5
years *nr met with ; my detention quite tires my ei .-
ry, in «e«ce, and is extremely injurioas, ,to alt'my cY
) her *«"«", bwh at hrmo and abroad. Ncari* ' < i-.! t
J, month, hare clapfed, and not the lead proof h.. t
when "VhZ W ! *- PP T T"® 1 the " r? ° 1 cla!,N ' B ' ;r
vi U^ nt } e^ he ? eo P'° g" " 1 was •Wr
itten f'-d of the tifTiculties 1 had to encounter, and the
'hole ln ' a ";°r fedrefi, in December, January, Fcbrua
ears, '?». i Ta ™- and April. 1 wrote for the depofi.
ve is 1 ? G ?, v Chute,Kl '" n and Gen. SpafTord, whi.-h
have happily arrived in due feiftm, together with
the interference of the goverhment of the United
ence 'fates in my favor. These. communications, tGo- e ~
U th; ; Wlth other proofs, 1 hope, will be fuffici?nt
ames , 3Wa £ *" the j j alousies and envy that the ma
nned of „'"""an natuie is master of ; if so „ T
property vv,ll feon be ret.u red with heavy damap
", , {!?. t,on * "See. and (hipped to America with
imeS out lol» of time.
son- lllc militia of Vermont may prepare for their
arms, and a field piece for each regiment. I {hall
alio procure feathers, &s. and hope to fee mv
. ™ untr y m en make *< good an appearance as thi
' , vings St - James' Park, or a review
the when attended by his Maje.ly in Hyde Park •
and c "reviews I have several tinf.es attended.
:ven • 7 c ! etcm j on 1»» been owirig to Vermont', fee
ire- r K rre' e n "f* l!:orh ? od of Lower Canada where,
l am informed by late information, that a revolu
tionary fp,r« subsist. anion;, the Canadians ; this
ret- l«cali,y ought not to operate aßainft a citizen of the
. Q f United ~t.tes, who by the laws of nitiyns and rc
0f , ccm treaties with the government of Great Britain
»tave ah undoubted right to pnrehafe military ftorcs
in trance and carry them in neutral ftipuo Amc.
nca therefore this will he a heavy' argument
for damage; and John Ball must pny the (idler,
nee more might be said on this ftt'bje.l, but this
of » " f '"' r" Pr tfeDi .: 1 ho P c to have the
, 1 P rL oi a personal interview with you soon as
„ arrival in America, which, I presume is
nail »ot far DM ant * ' lB
011 Serious movement, are now making between the
om '™ *"d the Frerch governmertfs for peaci.
aed » e '"r«tentikrics from both govert ments meet
at Lifie for that jmrpofe on Tualday next Ths
people of Great Britain are very deGrous of a
peace— [ he people of France oremr.rh worn down
by-internal and external war., Whether the ne-
Ita, ,"y 0 elte rnal enemies te consolidate the intsr
nal government of France ha. cejfed, may be a
- > queflion ; it was, however, nrceffary twelve
iCy mon ; hs W- The Englift arc in paffeffion of ma
ex- ny places taken irom the Frenck, Durch, Sc
ar. From the present power of the trench it'is to ba
itli u f poled, that their terms of pence to Great Bri
to Xr" 6 hard .j,? ma y be a S ueftion.
-at wh^ er P«ce will be concluded at the present ne
lat g oc jation. Much might be wrote on the mutinie.
as m the navy—lreland, and other affairs in Europe,
Q f 1 would time permit.
United States, 1
Pennsylvania Dijlria, \-U'
ht T N Prance of a writ to me direfted from the
tr " 4<i JI A a RICiIARD Esq. Judge of the
ed l k°a - I A C Unit ° d Stltes in and for 'he
.er ci,/ f ' W|U be exposed to PUBLIC
if AJ v " - U e ' the city of Phi-
it nooo"' 0B Fndi s r > th e 17tli in ft. at ix o'clock
2 hampers of Earthen Ware
1 box of Indigo
1 b«x of Merchandize
1 half barrel do.
I 10 bags of Coffee
1 barrel of Salt Fetre
I t barrels}
r ! I 1 sos Lineng
al I 1 trunk J
1 barrel of Sugar
1 bag of Pepper, and
to T . art , of * bb e» of Sugar
■d 1f a T b " en libelled again H. prosecuted
- 1 a»d condemned a, forfe,ted, in the fail < s ourt
'P WILLIAM NICHOLS, '
Marljial's Office, ? ' r>/ '
r I id November, \ j t S
United Statbs, )
Peunfylvania Diflria,y>'
IN KOrfuance of a writ to me direfle,| from, the
«. udge of the
10 D'ftna Court of the Un.ted State-, in and for t/e
I C j 1 ?» 'f Dlflrl,ft ' w! " he expoled to PUBLIC
11 I 1 1 L ' are Cu(,om -honfe in the city of Phila
p dripbia, on Friday, the x 7 .th inft. at 11 o'clock
, lat noon, '
354 Silver Watches
al 30 pold Watches
I S JO alch Keys
The fame having been libelled agamft, prosecuted
and condemned .is forfe ted, in the &id Court
3 WILLIAM NICHOLS,
j I Marshal's Office, | Marjhal.
1 j 2d November, 179;. |
M R E MOV A~L.
: Maurice Moynihan,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he
has removed his Store of China, Glais, Queens
• I are, and Dry Goods, from No. 81 North Se
i eond, to No. 71 North Seventh Street, north'ead
corner of Cherry Alley, where he jolicits tbefa
j vorofhis former v
N. 13. Crates put up with care >it the ihortert
I nofice.
».
For Baltimore,
i Betsey b" 5 Peggy y
i WiffTuirT J°' ln Stran, Mqflcr,
• d»t A VE r R p'Si- 11 fli]|n S veff|,! > wilh go id accomm"-
|da ions for P^lTengers—Npw lying at ihe wharl next
below Market-ftrect She h<s about half her
on board, and will be ready to depart in a few davs
For freight or passage apply to theMafieron board,
or to
Samuel & Miefi Pifner.
11 mo. 9* J
FOR SALE'/
A Team of five excellent Horfer,
with a
young, firong, true to the draught, and c=uaM
oi nauling as great a weight as rabS in the coun"-
try. Ihe VVaggqp and Gears ire strong, and
Ingoodorder. Appiy to ROBERT GREEK,
vv elt Town, Chester county, or to
Thomas Fjher,
No. 142, f. Second Street, Philadelphia.
11 mo - 5 > 1 797- ___ _ ecd 3 w.
Wanted, a Wet Nurse.
AHeilthy VV r eman, with a good breSft o c
Milk, and fatisfadlory recommendaticm
will hear of an agreeable fituatiun, by aunlvT"
at the office of this Gazette. 7 K ' 0
Nov. j, 1797. d 6
THE MAYOR'S OfFlct^
Ji KEPT, r«R THE raBSEVT; ATTES
CITY HALI..
Sept. g.To be Sold at Public Vendue,
/ j[f not before disposed of at private sale) y u jj
O~N f.idav, the lirll of December nexl, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Cof
fee Jfoiifc, in Philadelphia Forty Thouland Nine
Hundred add Thirty Nine acres of LAND, _
now or late in the County of Waftnnglon, and Cem- I
monwealth of Pennl'ylvania, and <>n the waters of *-
Freih and Wheeling Creeks and Ten Mile Run.— tmer-
Thclc Lands arc fertile and well timbered, and were ditior
paicnteed early in except 3700 acres ortherea- tranU
bou:s, which were patented in 9 ne ' 0 " n " '° l '
of the purchase money to be paid st the time of laie, ftiev
for ihe rtfidue a.credit of one, two and three months, Jol
will he ijiven, on interest and good leturity.
October 6. 3 awlS
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
flf not before disposed of at private sale)
ON Friday, the firtt day of December, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Cnflee
House, in Philadelphia, Twenty Si* Thoufj.id Se
vooHu.dred and Eighty acres of/LAND, m the
State of New-York, between the northern bounds
of Pennsylvania and tbe Sulquehanna, now, or late,
in the town (hips oi Hamden and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery. One to.rth of the _ p.rchale
money is to-be paid at the time of sale ; for l ? e
lidue a credit of one, two, and three months will be,
riven, on interest and good security,
Oaofie 6. 3 awtS
Peale's Museum.
rpHIS valuable repository of the works of Na-
JL ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the underflanding, is opened daily, as ;
iilual. It ilaiids in an airy and healthy fixation,
and free from the epidemic that at present alflifls
the city ; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the y reatefl fafety.
As aa Ainufement, the study of Nature is the
most rational anS pleating : as a Science, the molt
fufelime anl inftruAive. It elevates the mind and , j
expinds th<J heart. They , r #" : r Y
" IVLom Ttoturc'i writ can charm,-with bed bimjtlj KN/
" Held cnxverfc." j bo«
Many interjfting additions have lately been , (j ow
made to this Mufcum : and the feathered tribe, j ate
containing a variety of the most rare and beautiful . mul
JVibjeflS, is now very advantageously arranged, [ g
Waxen Figurrs.of Men large as life (some o,f them j Sou
calls from naaire) are here dressed in their proper , j
habits,and placed :n attitudes cbara,acriaic of their
rel"pe<9ive natkms. Here may be foe» the Npi th-
American Savage, and the lavage of South-Ameri
ea —a laboring Chinese, and the Chinefc Gentle
man—the sooty African, and the Kamtfchadale—
with some Natrlss of the South Sea Islands. the
immense variety and interesting diversity which .
this Museum off;rs to the view, may be seen but |-
oannot b< described with fall
gjT Price only I-4th of a dollar.
seyt- I* .. J aw dy
N O T I C E. er
ALL person* indebted to the estate of John be;
Striker, Ute of Tinnecum Township.
Buck's County, are requested to pay off their «
rtfpeaive debts ; and those having any de
mands against faifi estate, are desired to bring in v
their accoui*.t», to , j _ Pe
JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN,
MALLET py.EVALT, i tors. Ps
Sept. it. f ll "* w Tr
Davis's Law Book Store, th j
No. 319, High-Street. otl
GEORGE DAVIS, tic
BEING" liufied for some time past in prepara
tions'for removing into his present house, has ni
been under thenec.ffityof poftponinguntil thisday l
informing tie getrtjemen of the Bar generally thro W
the United States, that his fprmg importation of ne
law books » now r rraneed and ready for lale, on
terms that le truis will entitle him to the like pre
freence he has experienced for Jeveral years past.
Catalogues, <bmbining the most varied ebllec
tion ever imported into this country, are printed T
and will bu dalivered on applieation.
June 17, «W6W_ r
City- Commijioners' Office* u
jKnc aa, 1797- ai
IN purfumte of an ordinance from the fele<a w
and corjraon eounclls, palled the aid day of
Mav lafti appointing the city cwtrimi..loners,
and orefevibing their duties, feflion 9th,
notice is Hereby given,
That the cily <» divided into Bve diftriifls,
each to be under the fuperintendance of one of
the city cottinjiflioners, whouto be individually {
rdponfibl* for the cleanliflefs ef the fame, and n
dar-ftrtet,to thenorth fide ofSpruce-ftreet,tm
r the superintendence of Nathan Boys.
, From tie north of Spruce-street, to
thenorth fide < f Walnut-ftreet,under the fuper
ir?r^,H»«VM b Aw,i.,,,..wr. n ,h *
fide of Hi jh-ftveet, under the fuperintendtnee ot •
J0 4 P Fro2tClorth fide of High-street, to the
north fidr ef Mulberry street, under the super
intendence of William Moulder.
. From the north fide of Mulberrv-ftreet to (
the north fide as Vine-street, under the luper
intenden«« of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaningof Hrgh-ftreet to be in cotn«oTi. |
er A stated meeting of the city comraillion- ,
ers is btH at the Old Court House, in High- ;
street, every tuesday evening at 5 o
tuly '/>• e °'" —
Stands for Draymen, &V.
following places are fixed upon by the
JL fiid City Commifiioajers for Stands for
n Pl r men and their Horfe#.
In Vine-street, eastward of Front-ftre«, on
k°SalTafras Hszh,Chefnot and Walnut-fttreets,
eastward ol Vron't-ftreet.on the no.th fideonly.
Mulberry-lreet, south fide from Fpnt to
Th Fr r Sr%. Cde from Vine-ftrett to
El Front-ftrert, from oppoGte to Black Horse al
-1 Hamilton's stores, call fide.
% Wa.er-ftr«t, wests.de from the north end of
SrimDer's or Moore's stores to Pme-ftreet. I
pTnn-ftrcet from Pine to Cedar-street, weft
Drawbridge north fide, eaftof Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South ltreets, east of Frost
v?ft!ee't" s between Walnut-street and the
, °PP° r "«
street, between Saffafras and Vine
* r Fifth-ttre ft et f feaft fide from Chefnut to Mul
fcts7(rSftreet, from Third to Fourth-street,
"NSay or hovfe to stand within ten feet of
l "ft S FOR HACKNEY COACHES
Pme-ftreet, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
ft S-ftreet, between Chefnut and Walnut
north fide, between Third and
Fourth itreets. mw &fim
July 14"
A Literary Treat.
JuJi publifbed, handfomtly prfottd on writing
paper, price I dollar, 2
A new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, antitled
_ P'HF. FORESTERS, an American Tale ; being
L a f.-quel to the hiliory of john Bull, the Clo
thier—ln afeiiesof letters to a friend, with the ad- _
dition of t\\ o letters, alluding to recent political
transitions in America.
Th« following extraift from the Clavis Allagorica,
(hews the principal charailers that are introduced: ,
John Bull, the Kingdom of England
Hi, Mother, theCkurch of England :
His Wife, the Parliament Ira
His sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland t l, e j
Hit Brother Patrick, Ireland street
Lewis,the Kingdom of France
His Mistress, the Old Conftitutio#
His new Wife, the National Rcprefeptation ■>"'
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic And
The Franks, the French Republic
The Fwefters, the United States of Amend
Robert Lumber, New-Hamplhiie
John Codline, Massachusetts
Humphrey Plowfhaie, ConneAicut
Roger Carrier, Rhode I Hand
Peter Bull Frog, New-York '
Julius Csefar, New-Jersey
William Broadbrim, Pennfy Wania
Caflitnar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
His Grandlon, George Walhingtoa A n
Peter Pitch,, North Carolina ""
Charles Indigo, South Carolina tl j e c
George Ttuily, Georgia P
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky celv <
Black Cattle, Negro Slave* '° 1
Rats, Speculators T °
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins *'
.<rt- This popular and entertaining fatiricalhifto- the 1
ry of Amotica is attributed to the Rev. Dr- Bel-
. knap. It has a groat (bare of originality and a- £
I bounds with genuine humour. It is continued go a
1 down to the present time, and chwa&erifes those — 1
late political tranfaftions which have taufed so
much useafinefs in Amarica.
; gold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
1 South Second Street, and No. 50, Marke' fljeet.
" j Jiine 26. 5 /
: LAW BOOKS, ~
Latefl London and Dublin Edition*. —I
H. fcf P. RICE, Booksellers, Fo
No. i 4, South Sctond, and No. 50, Market street,
t YTAVE just received by the l«e arrivals Irom
II London and Bublin, their fpriag imports
tion, confiding of a variety of the lattft and molt
approved Law Books, which, added to those alrca
- dy on hand, forms the aioft
er offered for sale in this country. Thyr theiefore
■j beg leave to notice, that front the r.atwe of their 1
, conne&icns in Dublin, th«y are enalbled to fell Irilh P"
r editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very 11 u
lovreft price*. The following are among the latelt
publications.
Vefey, juu'rs Reports in Chancery, » vcit.
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway'* Reports
in the Wme of Lord Hardwicka ; VloyeT s Pro&crs
PraAice is the Ecclesiastical Courts ; Barton s
Trtatife on a Suit in Equity,; Tidd's PratfUce of
the Court of King's Bench in Perlonal Anions, % <>'
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise w.
on Uses ; modern Reports, 11 vols. London edi- loi
tioh.
H. and P. Ricp o*pe& to receive by the firft ar- 011
a, rival from the 6th vol. complete of tic
i« Durnford and East's Reports, the ad part of C»i.- m
a' bert's Law of Evidenee by Loft', and a number of pr
of new publications. so
)n June *6. pi
" The History of _
i By ROBERT PROUD,
od Tg now in the prefi, and will be pubJiOied,
A with all convenient expedition, by ZtCHA
riah PoulsoN, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-itreet, ]
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue al
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed propcfala, until the l«
•A work is ready for the fubferiber*. it
of July 18. » awtf £
The Partnerftiip, ci
T TNDER the firm of FREEMAN & Company, ti
. Uis dissolved by mutual consent. All persons n
i having any domands again!t tkefaid House are de- n
1? fired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and g
J those indebted to theHowfe are desired to make pay- t
n meat to him—By whom business will in future be v
, carried on,at his Store, No. 39, South Front-street. \
£ Auguji 7. eod * w ' f
to Richard and James Potter
er- HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftreet.
nth Aogoft 1.
0t Lancafier y Harrijburgb Carli/le,
the Sbtppenjburg and Suribury
►er-
STAGES.
1 iT~<HE public are reqnefted to take notice, that
JL the partnerftiip which has for some »ime sub
sisted between Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Oeer, is now dissolved: bat, not as M.
,0 v" Slongh infmuatesto thepablic without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by letter on the fub
jeft from M. Slough to W. Oeer, dated the 19th
ed necessary. Any gentleman who wiflies to be
• more eircumftantially informed of the merits of
and f this business, by applying to W. Ceer may have
' \ the perofal of M. Slough's letter, and then can be
*°f at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Oeer is not perfcAly jnftifiabie in attaching him
' t ' ie felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance front Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
lon Now from tbe liberal and generous fapport the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
eets, this business, William Oeer, in conjun&ion with
jnly. Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determiaed
it to toprofecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatchihat a zeal to oblige the pub
it to lie eanpoflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
f c ,1. with carriages, horfos, and every appurtenance to
render th<; passage fafe and commodious, inform
,d 0 f those wnuwifh to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
a George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Hamfburg,
"* Carlille and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
' roSt eftablifticd. , . -■» ■ ...
For the further accommodation of tne public,
a Siage will fltart every Wednesday from the houle
cor ß e of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bur'-in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
Vine and'vreturn from theoee and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that passengers destined for
Mul " Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon-
Ireetj WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. »7, 1797* , ,
4t of N. B. This Line ®f Stages starts from the
house of William Ferroe, in Lancaster, on every
IS. Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro-
Fifth ceeding to the westward; and lrom the houfu of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wedncf
alnut day morning,'on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
i and from thence on every Thursday: performing the
fame roHtint daily as in its tour from Philadel
im phia. _ mwt
Will be
From onboard the Ibip Afljyl MR.frdr. Audio
Hi'-utrorgh,
SO baits white RuSia dean Hemp
2 -caflcs Clover Seed VvJ*
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer, « Tin
NorthTifth ATeet, No. 34.
Tune »6. $ I" w 'li
Voung Hyson lea.
J Late J
»
40 chests of > superior quality—Also,
100 do.of , T J ti
, Imported in the iVoodrop Sims, and for sale tjy ot thd
the fubferiber, corner of Second and Pine Unite,
street. , P" 1 : 0 "
J}"
June 11.. f e0 "... Monr,
Imported in the Jhip Pigou, i ea
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-street, that t
Hyson p was 1
Hyson Skin C. TEAS Bf th<
Young Hyson ( gy
Imperial J will b
April 20. cash.
Thomas Armat and Son,
OF PHILADELPHIA,
INFORM thsir cuflomers and the public, they
have removed a part of their merchandize to
Wilmington : Also, they have their store open in ( L - «•
the city. At either place their friends can be sup- ty s ec
plied, and their orders carefully attended to. Statci
By the Cumberland, from Hull, they have re- tr ;& :
ceived a handsome aff.rtment of aiticlss, suitable
to the approaching season ; and expcil to add to it WPr j
by other fall ships. «
Should the sickness prevail in the central part of „ ; n
the city, that branch of their business will be re* tl e( j
moved to Germantown. •• 0 f
0- The communication by post is open and re „ 8e
gular as afual. " W
Sept. tB. In
TO BE SOLD VIRT CHEAIH "e.t
A Light W A GGON almost new, with a frame— Jge"
1 and a pair of harness (English collars) has never etQr!
beenufed—price 90 Dotls. .
A Horse 16 hands high, seven years old—and a
new chair, with a falling top and harness— 3 10 -
Enquire No. 331, Market-flreet
August 24. t diw _J'
FoFTale or to be let on ground- A
, «»<*
A*,valuable Lot of Ground, ;
: O ITU ATE on tjic north-eift corner of Wal- jfid
O nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front (
" on Walnut street, and ofle hundred and thirteen fid(
r feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
h present two small two story brick houfct, and a con
y number of small tenements thereon. ; n ]
It Str
Also, for Sale, >
'■ Two three story Brick Houses ~
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
• s Watcr-flreet, between Mulberry and Saflafras £,(
,f streets, containing in front on Water street fj
i ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east- r-j
fe ward nine:y-five feet, then widening to the 1
i- south thirteen feet fix inches. These houfee SA
ave the convenience ot a public alley adjoining tio
r- on the north fide, and are a very desirable fitua- coi
of tion for a merchant, flour faflor,or others who 01
ml y have occasion for storage of goods. This dr;
of property will be fold on very reasonable terms
for cash. For further information apply to the >"1
printar.
- July 31. m&wtf pc
" TO BE SO L D, dr
Andpoffefftoti given immediately, g;
A " \ LARGfc two story brick House, handsomely ut
:t, J\ f„uatedin Princeton, Th*c are four rooms
ue and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in -
y, the garret, s ranjc of back buildings 51 feet in
he length, and a piazza of j 7 feet. There is a pump
in the yard, an eicelleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
stables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
stalls in the two stables for 27 hones. The heal
ity, thinefs and pleasantness ol its situation, and the
30s number of genteel and agreeable families in and J
de- near the town, render it a desirable retrecat for a
ind gentleman from the city. The commodioufnefs of
ay- the house, its centralpoiiiion, and the largeness cf
be *he stables, make if every way fuitableforatavern,for
:et. which it has alwajs been confiderd as a
ft and. Inquire on the premises, of
_ ISAAC SNOWDEN. s
Princeton, Ang. ij. 19 —dtw^»wtf
No City of Waftiington. ,
t
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwcll»g'-houfe ao,ooo dollars,
that k cafe 30,000, tre 1 jo.ooo
Cub. I ditto ij.ooo A e»<* 15, 00e 40,000
a[l d J ditto 15,000 «t cafe tj,ooo 30,400
1 ditto 10,000 & call) to,ooo »0,000
use; j ditto 5,000 & cafe j,OOO 10,000
sub- ' 1 ditto j,OOO & cafe 5,000 10,600
19th j caftl prize of 10,000
iem- i do. 5,000 eich,are • 10,000
o be 1,000 - - jo,ooc
» of jo do. 500 - - io.oop
ha™ 00 do. too - - 10,000
"J? aoo d». 50 * " I °' 6oo
L . W - 400 do. *5 - * I0 »° 00
!"?" 1,000 do. ao - » 0 >° 0 "
p ; n h f ! do. .« ' -
t the ,6 »739 Prizes.
rt in Blanks.
iTued JO,OOO Tickets, at Eight Bollars, 400,00*
oub" N. B. Tofavour thofewba may takeaquan
tity of Tickets.the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
vided the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
i Ce to hot ONI •• . .
.form And approvednotes, fecu»ii>g payment in either
. the monsy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
ts at he received sot any number not left than 30 Uck
!ndiv et This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
•bun, the private buildings to be ert&ed in the Cay o
herto Walhington—'Two beautiful defigps are already
Iciriled for th« entire lronts on two of the public
üblic square?; from these drawing*it ispropofed toereel
house twocentreand 'ourcornerbuildings.as soon aspof-
Sin- fible after this lottciy is fold, »nd to convey them,
rida'v when complete, to the fortunate adventures, "•
ifb ur ' the manner defiribed in the fcjieme for the Hole
d Lottery. A nett dedudionof five per cent, will
Mon . be made to defray the neceflary espenfes of print
ing, See. and the surplus will be made a part of
o the fund intended for the National Umveffity, to
be etecled within the city of Waftington.
„ tht The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
" Prices, are held by the President and two Diredt-
J ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are Valued at
'J ' f more than half the amount °f the lottery.
of SAMUEL BLODGET.
«Pa .§. Tickets may be had at the Bank oi Colam
ta c P r "; bfa ?of James Weft & Co. Baltimore ;of Peter
the Oilman. Lofton ; of John Hsyluns Richmond
ifadel- of Richard Wife Cooper »Ferry.
This Day Published, Sch(
A»i »o be fold by WILLI AM YOUNG, eoracr of
Second and Ghefntit streets,
Price ytoths of a DoHar, -
Observations on certain Documents TTAf
Containod in No. V and VI of iTx n
<< Yhe History of the United Statss for SCHOC
the year 1796," onScici
In which the chof speculation against ana co
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, sher
Late SeckbtaEy of the Trf asuky, is FULLV | arire v
REFUTED. Ditt.
>r X l T T IBY a I M S S L F. Ditt
This publication presents a ccncii'e ftatemcnt All
of thd base mean? pradtifed by the Jacobins of the writin]
United States to asperse the chasa&er* of rhofe Jheathi
persons who are coniidered as hoftilc to their difor- blank .
ganizing fchemcs. It also contains the ■ tor- be!
refpondence between Mr. Hamilton and Meurs. public
Monroe, Muhlcuburgli and VeniVe, on the fuV
je& of the documents aiorefaid, and a fcrics ci let- BOQK
ters from Jame* Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha- j
milton, proving beyond the poilibility of a doubt, *
that the connection between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring confpiraay oa the part
Of the latter and his afiociates to extort money.
A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor of wholefaie purchafcrs, for
cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr Yowng. ANN
AusuH 25.
No. 188. Conta
Dijlrifl of Pennsylvania, to wit : pj?]
, . T)E IT REMEMBERED,, that on the And "
(L. «.) twenty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Fenno, of the said dif- Q ne
tri&,hath deposited in thisoffice the title of a book, ,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the q<
words following, to wit : .
« Observations on certain documents contained
•• in No. V.and VI. of "TheHiftery of the Unit- [
" ed States for the year 1*96," in which the charge ">*-v
" of speculation, against Alexander Hanulton, late
" Secretary of the Treafnry, is fully refuted
« Written by himfeif" „
In conformity to'he aA of the Corgrefs of the
Ucited States, entituled, " An »& for theencour-
agement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts and boohs to the authors an« propn-
etors of such copies, during he times therein men-
' CALDWELL, tt
t Cltrk ./ the DiJtrM ./ Ptn*Jyh<nm. vjnj
July 47. W4W milt.
• ~An~elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large *' '
and eleaant house at the Corner of Arch and r
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and one dining room —the largest u3l feet by .
16 —and two are so conne£led by folding doors
lt as to make but one. Also, five bed rooms, be- f r
n fides sin the garret, well finifhed for servants. anJ
11 There are stables and a coach house, with evry y ro ,
a convenience for a family. Enquire at No. 19, j a y
in North Seventh street, or at No. 218, Arch jf,
Street. ana
Aug. 15. aawsw. «>
)B William Blackburn, Z
as LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE £
f- No. 64 south Second-P.reet.
ft- ryiCKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. U, which \
he JL commonced drawing the 29th May, FOR
ici SALE. The price of tickets will rift in propor-
ig tion as the dnwing advances, particularly on ae-
a- count of the five firft drawn tickets, priaes of
lio four thousand dollars each, on the last day ol
lit drawing. tfl
Tle Check Books kept for examination and regrfter- J
he ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Vfafliington, No.
», and Paterfon Lotteries. V
Also, tickets for laic in the Schuylkill bridge and '
_ Pcrk'omen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the course »f the fttmmer.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of Steak,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c-4cc. tranfa&ed Wlthtlu _
"'V utinoft actention.
June a ' r
in Erfkine's View of the War. p
mp dc
the JUST PUBLISHED, v '
7? By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co. N
lt . No. 40 Sou:h Second street, tl
'the [Price jl Cents]' a
and A View of the Causes and Confequen-
>ra f ces of the present War with France. e
®®, By the Honorable Thomas Erskini. S
,for Mayij J_ I
>itil ~~sTJte trials. \
Sold b W. Youno, Bookseller, No. Ji, South Se
rf colld-ftreet, _ a
The Pennsylvania State Trials, \
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acquit
al of FrancisHopkinfon, Judge of the Court of 1
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, CompKoiler Gen- '
cral—ln one Urge 8 vo. vol. Price, in boaids.j 1
dollars.
W. Young has for fale,a general alioitmentot 1
!ty. Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
liars, ege, well aflorted, and entitled to the drawback if
,000 I axpwted. 1 |
'• 00 ° / For Sale,
>',ooo That well known place, coiled Vand£<srih s
fHH,
ms«o Ne(li«tii»y cretJc, «8 miles from Phila
i'ooo W iadelphia, on the New York post road,
>.OOO containing 74 acres and 94 perchw. Upon the
~ooc premises are a large two Itory stone house occu
>.ooc pied as a tvern, and a good one ftorv stone kit
-3,000 cben, a large frame ftabie with a gt>od threlhing
3,000 floor, and l'orae out buildings—also a well of
ajooo good water, and an excellent ice House. On
0 000 this place is a moll elegant situation fora gentle
s,ooo man's feat, commanding a view ot the Nefham
irty to its iun6hon wiih the Delawaie, and thence
across to the Jersey (hore. ft his the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the SnWcriber,
mordecai lewis
J May 14.
rTb"; COLUMBIA HOUSE
LA6T Boarding School for young Ladies,
either A yrRS. GROOMBRIDGE with m.ch pleaf
r Will iVL tire and refpefl, returns her sincere ac
f'tjek- knowledgemcnt for the liberal encouragement
she has received during four years refidenaein
nen of Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the
:ity of public, so far from intending to decline her
lrcady school, {he ha? made a fupenor arrangement for
public t i, c more convenient accommodation or her
oerect scholars.—Every branch of ufetul and
a«P of - education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and maftera excell.ng in their
•rs, ir rc fpe6iive prof<*flion3.
Hotel P Corner 0 f Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
lt - wiU Jn.e <th, 1797-
print- The fituat ; en i s healtliy ; and made
P artof more agreeable by an extenfivc garden and lot
of ground adjoining the houle.
SIS Jw? Published,
lued at And to be had of Messrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice
Cary, and the other pr.cipal Booksellers io tSe
r. city .price oue dollaf, tw.nty-five cents,.o boards,
holism, Views of the Origin 01 ttie
Ve T Tribes and Nations of Americai.
f By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, M. ».
mvff Jane ao.
jafff
School Books and Stationary. '
W. Y oTu NG, <j
No, {2, Second-street, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large aflort
ment of Englifl^, French, Z.a#*« Gr*«i
SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, iuch elementary Wts
on Science, as are generally read in the academics
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan*ft Dictionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo 3 <Jols.
Ditto, large 12. mo price ; dol, 75 cts.
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Palteboirds,
ftieathing and blotting Papers ; printed Blanks,
1 blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, of
the belt quality, used in the counting house, or
public office,
Catalogues.of a miscellaneous collection 01
BOQKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
Uy inquiring as above. Oft. Z4.
JuJl Publi/hed, and now Selling,
By BENJAMIN DAVIES,
At his Book-Store, No. 68, Hieh-Streetj
The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AND
ANNUALSEGISTXKf'rtii UNITED STATES
FOR THE YEAR 17Q8 :
Containing complete and corre«st mis of the Execu
tive, I cgiflativc and Tu'liciary
DEPARTMENTS of GOVERNMENT,
And a variety of ufeful tables, necefiary to be
known in every State of the Union.
Embellijbed loitb two handsome Engravings,
One of which is depi&ive of a melancholy fccne
' that occurred during the American war.
OS. 18.
[ The Philadelphia, jitfion, anS 1 uckerton
MAIL STAGE.
THE proprietars beg leave to inform the public, that
they have ejiablifhed a Stage between Philadelphia,
Atfion % Batflo, Hampton, Speedwell, and Martha Fur
nace, Wading River fitting mill, and the town of Tuck
ertony in New-ferfey, to go once a week, and areprovi
£ ded with good horses, a comfortable carriage, and a care
ful driver, for the conveyance of the mail, poffengers, and
goods. The Stage will Jlart every Tburfday, at I®
1 o'clock, A- M' from Mr. Daniel Cooper s Ferry, and
lodge that at Joel Bodine's, at Longacom'tng ; and
on on Friday, at 6 o'clock, F*. M. arrive at CM E
vans's, inkccper y in Tuckcrton, dif ant from the city 54
_ miles, (from the Atlantic 6, and from the Eafi Grouftng
Plains 7 miles J where are good accommodations fir tra
r# vellets, and where are commodious and fafe passage boats
d provided to convey pajfengers to Capt. William War-
rir.gton t house, on Tucker's Jfland, adjoinining the At
-18 lantic, where are good accommodations, and a convenient
place to bathe ; the sportsman whowijhes to regale l:nfelf
rS with fowling andfijhing, may at this place be highly gra-
C " tified, there being atalmojl every season of the year fowl
4 ' andfifh in abundance. —»The Stage on its return, far is
*7 from the aforefaid C. Evans's in Tucker ton, every Tuef
-9» day, at 6 o'clock, A. M. breukfafs at John Boding s, at
ch Wading River Bridge, lodge that night at Longacom'tng.,
and at I o'clock, P. M. on Wedncfdcy, arrive at the
aforefaid Cooper's Ferry. It is prsfumed that no route of
an equal difance will be Irfs expenftvt, or frrgijb the tra
veller with a greater variety of amusement, a: he reill
' r not only have a p leaf ant fail to the atlant;c from Tiiclt?*
tony but have the euriojiiy of faing on the road thither a
• v number of capital furnaces and forges, and one flitting
ij. milly in complete order, and at work ; gentlemen, too, who
are owners, or faSlorsy of any of the aforefaid iron works a
° r are solicited to encourage and support this Jfoge (by which
they can be ft well accommodated) the continuance of which
j will much depend on their aid. The rates of paffmgers
° and baggage are as foUoios : For a passenger from the
aforefaid Daniel Cooper's Ferry to Tvckerton, including
H 14 lb. of baggage, Tw* Dollars ; for way poffengers
per mile, Four Cents— IJG lb. of baggage equal to a paf
and f etl^r ' °f liters, newfpapers t tjV. will be
• agreeably to law.
® ll N. B. The ptsil croffesfrom 'the Old Ferry.
THOMAS WARDLE & Co.
'"r* Tueltrtoo, Srpt. 18. Oa.S.—*la-wtf
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
£ 'T'HIS Stage ftirts from the OF.ORGE Tavern,
JL at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every Tucfday, Thursday, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the irorning ; arrives at Do
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the second day. at
Northampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the paffengcrs find
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey them to
en- Norfolk.
A packet loares Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
ice. every Tuefdvy, Thursday and Saturday, and the
. Stajc it art- from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
$ Monday, Wcdnefday and Friday; puts up at Snow
Hill the firft night, at Dover the ad night, and ar
rtves in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
1 Sc " The distance on this routs, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles less than on any stage route
Sj between those places
quit- Too much cannot be said in fayor of the road,
irtof which is naoft excellent indeed, ihc proprietors
Gen- willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
sds, 3 passenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay thai he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
entof diftanoe, so good a road in America,
pack- August ii. dim.eotf.
• ck " Window Glass,
r Of Superior Q«»lity, end cheaper than any other- in
the Gity*— i
itr's OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to 19 by 14,
J hil»- By the single Box or Quanti'.y, may be had at the
road, (tore of the Subscribers, corner of Ar«b and Frop*
oc'u'* " rC "' James C. & SamuelW. Fijher.
ekit- Philadelphia, |un«q, 1797- *!iwmvvftf
eft Chocolate and Mustard
On Manufaflured as usual,
entle- Ginger and Fepper pround
(hara - Shelled or Pearl BArley
hente Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
vile g £ London Porter
Ig®- Taunton and Button Ale
Ked Port and other Wines, tithe bottled,
S. or b y ,he pipe, quarter-cask or gallon—fuitablc
A'tf. tor«»portation or home con.urrtption
For Sale by
John Hawortb.
iics. No.yS fauth FroHt street
p'« f - The subscribers,
ernent ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREENLEAP>
, nae in HEREBY give notice, that they have difpoled
nd the of the pwperty affigncd to them tor the let'untjj
ne her the payment of ttie note-> acceptances, 3rd en
,n( for doifementa' given by Edward Fo*, lor the use
jf her ofihefiid James Gree*le»f i and theiioldcrs of
polite Tuth notes, acceptances, and endowments, are ,
f Mrs hereby notifyed (bat tbe fubicfibers will fettle
n their with them for the amount of their refpeatve
elaims, both prim-opal and interest, at
eets any lime before the aoth day of Oflober next;
mfrf after which day, the holders not applying, will
d made be excluded, agreeably to the terms of affign
and lot menti , .
Applications to be made at fouth-ealt corner
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
„p. Jock every day, Sundays excepted.
U .' R,c , e ' Henry Pratt,
board., Wo. IV. French,
f the l oh r M J I t' Jun '
r ; rn i J° ,M
rlca! - Jacob Baker.
M ,f t ' Philadelphia, Augi»ftl«, 1797- *