of tije and -Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1555.J
SALES BY AUCTION.
A Stated Sales
For DRY GOODS.
S Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. 56,
south Front-flreet,
"* Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 6j
(_ South Front-ftrcet.
( Forenoon—Johh Connelly, Old Cit*
w rj 3 Audlion, No. 73 fout'h Front-street.
Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C 183 High-street.
Welnefday \ 3enfon ' No "
■ ( south Third-ftrcet.
ThurfJoy j Fm-enoon-Edsvard Fox.
t Afternoon —Joan Connelly.
r •j ? Forenoon—William Shannon.
5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—-Peter B-nfon.
For Freight or Charter,
THE GOOD BRIG
S U K E Y,
- i ilfaac Vredenburg, Matter ;
NOW lyingat Clifford's wban.and in conipleat
order to receive a cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the Gaptain on board, or
John Siyrin,
No. 81, Arch-ftrcct.
IVMO HAS FOR SALE, *
2006 wt.of double refined Saltpetre
600 wf. of PF Gun Powder
bayreU of Hcrrines
50 bushels. of Timothy Seed
150 ca(lc»of Claret, firit quality
Ami a quantity of Sherry Wine,
pt. 29. dtf
HAVANNA SUGARS.
. FOR SALF,
1400 boxes ai)d calks prime white Havan
na SUGARS,
On board the ship Hamburgh Packet, Silas
Swain, Maftjr, now lying jit Marcus Hook.
For alpjjly to Capt. Sw.viN, on board, to
Capt. SamwUL. Smith, in Front, near Wal
nut street, or to
Philip Nicklin, cSf Co.
r J>T7~V Who offer the said Ship
Hamburgh Packet
SALE or CHARTER.
She is 310 tons regiiler, coppered to the bends,
fails remarkalilv fall, and san be ready to re
ceive 1 cargo in a few days.
Sept 11. dzw
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and row landing from on board the
Brig A.-live, William Williams, Master,
One hund red hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale by
Jehu Hollingfiuorth & Co.
Wilmington, Sept. 21.' dtf
N- B. The above Brig,
fatw am ' 'he brig GAYOSO, are
' ol ' Sale or Charter, and
r now ready to receive i,cargo
on bnartl. at Wilmington. a * aboVe.
Savannah,
t | The fad failing ship,
• SWIFT PACKET,
ick.Grtbbin, Master,
f Now lying opposite the inouth
of Frankforrl Creek, has hanafome accommoda
tions for pafk-ngers, and will fail on or about
the rft »f o<Sk>ber.
For freigh : or paffige apply to the master on
board, or of I'Jie fublcribers at Frahkiord, 5 i-j
miles from Pliiladrlphia.
Xalhro &J. Frazier. 1
Frankford,, Sept. 18. dtiftO.
F r HAMBURGH,
1 .'""P'HE Copper Bottomed Ship ,
1 FAVORITE, John '
. Thompson, Master, now at
Blight's wharf', and will be rea
totjkc in on Monday next,
■ part of her cargobeing engaged |
nd ready to go on board. The {hip is so well
kiowu, that it is needless to describe her. She
in co mpleat order. For Freight or Pas-
foe, please lo apply at Mr. Jeremiah Warder's
Cfmpting I [oufe, No. 12, North Third street, 1
«'to the M .ijfer on bord.
\Auguft jb.
For SALE, \
Dn board the said Ship, Swedilh Iron, assorted r
Hillowaftd Window Glass, Demvjohns, Wrap- f
piig Paper for Sugar Refiners, Rugs of I & 2
Qial'tf. Please to apply as above. t
"FOR SALE,
■)RETAGNES In cases 1
. J German Checksin do.
; .mbrick
1 ittillaa
||!nabrigs,
ii aid and silver Watche% r
') indow Gtafs to by 8
J) ass Tumblers in cases ..
-jnfeed Oil in calks, &c. &c. ,
George Pennock, v
lo 3> High-Street. *
Ju : 5. ~V>w
■ H
Ai elegant House in Arth Street. n
T, be let and entered on immediately a large
and houfe at the Corner of Arch and 61
?ii»l iitreet. There are two drawing rooms
and u dining room—the largest is 31 feet hy
two are so conneiilsd by folding doors
but one. Also, five bed rooms, be-
iide? in the garret, well finilhed for servants. °
The are ftablesand a coach house, with evry ar
c6n«i< nee for a family. Enquire at No. 29,
in Xyti'Seventh street, or at No. 218, Arch
Btr«; w
-&• aaw3w J w
CiOcolate and Mustard *
Manufaflured as usual,
Gi'.igtr and Eepper ground _
SI) elled or Pearl Barley
Bh ijadelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter Ol
Taunton and Burton Ale
Red lPort and other Wines, eithe bottled,
erjr the | )ipe, quarter-calk or gallon—suitable
fowport|ition or home consumption „
For Sale by "°
John Haworth.
No. 98 south Front street,]
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 7, 1797
Sundry Lots
IN the following Squares in the City of Wafliing.
ton wiil be exposed to Public Sale, hy thefub
fcribcrs, onthefecond Monday in October, next,
at the Little Hotel, in the said City, to com
|Q» mence at io o'clock :
Square No. 32, 42. 43, 44, 47, 48, 49. 5 C > S3„
•5 66, 67,68, 69, 70, 73»74v75J ?6, 77, 7-3, ?9>loi,
lO*., 105,118, 119, iao, I 4 62,56, 34, IC4, J};,
[t Y 88, 89, i©4, 114, 125, 120, 61,.166, 80,103,
ct. square east of square 87, square fourh of square 104,
10. square north'of square Bf, square eail of square 88,
square north of square 128.
74 I hefe Lots are advantageously situated in the
neighborhood of the President's Square, and deem
ed equal in value to any in the city, and will be
peremptorily fold ; clear and valid titles w ill b«
made to the purchaser, on receipt of the purchase
money. I errns of sale, are, good notes, negotia
ble at the Bank of Columbia, one fourth part in
or.e month, one other fourth in three months, one
other foyrth in five months, and the remaining
fourth in fevennionths.
WILLIAM I) E A KINS, fan*
URIAH FORaEST.
\ Sept. 21. dts
p. From Marseilles.
THE CARGO
Of the Swedilh barque Guftavus Adolphus, from
Marseilles, cor.fifting of the following articles,
is dilchorging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and fer ;
g | sale by the fulifcrjbers
BRANDY, well flavored, of 2, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hotheads
Ditto, in cases r
Frontigoiac Wine, in cases of 30 battles
Olive Oil, of a fuptfrior 4ualitv, in baikets of 6
and 13 bottles
Capers
Olives
Almonds
1- Dry Verdigreafr
Writing Paper
16 Umbrella* (Silk) of 28, 3a and 32 inchei
Taffetie#
0 and fliort white Kid Gloves Women
Silk Stftckirgs
Handkerch ess, in imitation of Madrafs
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Oflrich Feathers
Kibbons
Perfumery .
Fcented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
Mjnna in foris
' Cream Tartar.
BEN'AMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANDREWS.
September 27. eotf !
Public notice is hereby given,
To the Freemen of the City and County of 1
Philadelphia, and the County of Delaware, J
THAI a General Ele&i'on will be held on !
Tuesday the 10th day of Oiftober next , 1
the eledlion to be operved between the hours of
10 o'c ock in the forenoon, and 1 o'clock in af
ternosn—when the freemen of the city of Phi
, ladelphia are to meet at the State-house, in the
; said city, to elefl
1 Six representatives for the said city in the gen
-1 eral afltmbly.
Twenty perfom for members of common
council.
Four persons for members of the felef) coun
cil, in the room of Francis Gurp?y, Godfrey
Haga, Henry Pratt, and James Read, whose
' time expirts.
The freemen of tke county of Philadelphia
to ele<sl 1
Six representatives for the said county in ge- 1
ncral affembfy. 1
The frtsmen.of the city and county of Phila- '
delphia to eleil '
Two persons for (heriff.
One person for county eommiflioner.
Thctreemfn of the city and county of Phi
ladelphia, and the county of Delaware, to elefl
One senator for the state.
The freemen of the county of Blockley and
Kingfeffing, are to hold their election at the
State-house in the city of Philadelphia.
The freemen of the Northern Liberties, are
to hold their citisl:on at the Town-house", in Se
cond street continued,' above Coau's street.
1 he freemen of the townlhipof Germintown,
Roxborough and BrifM, are tn hold their elec
tion at the Union school-house, in Germ.intown
The freemen of the townfnip of Oxford, Ily
bery, Lower Dublir. and Morel and, are to hold
ther eledlion in thehoufe late Jc4in Llainflcy's in
Bufleltown, in the townfhipof L >wer Dublin.
And the freemen of the diitiifbof South
wark, and the tnwnlhip of Moyamenfitig and
Paffvunck, are to hold tneir elediion at the com
milfioner's hall, in the diftrifl of Southwark a- 1
forefaid.
'I he constables of each ward, diftridl, &c are
to hold their eledlions'in the differcrtt oiltrifts,
to rhoofe their infpediora and afleflort for the
ensuing y«ar, and give their attendance at the
time and refpeAive pfa.is ,
JOHN BAJCF.R, Sheriff. "
Sept. 19. . dcE ir
The Norfolk Mail STAGE. °
o:
THI3 Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern, d
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, '-very Tut/lay, TlurfJay, and Sutur
d"y, at 3 o'clock, ia the irorningj arrives at Do- ti
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the second day, at e<
Northampton Court House the third day, and on ni
the morning of the fourth day the paffengcrs find ir
a fafe and oomfortaule packet to convey them to ct
Norfolk. r j
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton fctry, th
every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, and the ct
Stage starts frcm this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wcdnefday and Friday ;|puts up at Snow
Hill thefnft night, at Dover the td night,and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day. G
Thediftance on rhi* routs, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles less than on any stage route
between those places. In
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is raoft excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
passenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
Anguft 11. , dim. eotf.
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the City—
OF rjRIOUS SIZES, 2
From 8 by 6 to J9 by 1 4,
By the single Box or Quantity, may be had at the
(lore of the Subscribers, corner if Arch and Front
ftreet,
James C. 1f? Samuel W. Fijher. t lu
Qhiiajdelphia, June;}, 1797. ll<
By John Fenno, N" 119 Chefnut Street.
CUST(/M-HOUSK,
'g' PMlatfelybia, Srpt, aid, 1797.
Ib- TMF. Me'chairti who 3t this time prefer hav
xt, 1 ing {.heir and Merchandize entered and
m " I f ! p arefl it Cheftcr or Marcus Hook>,—are here
by nrtifi-d, Thai in comphancj with thtir de
ir foil conria.otl tflat the ueaftirc
• will be »fiulu'a3iv Aticßcial to them and to the
njred States. TUc c»lled)m of the ciillomshas
J' mad-; arrangements to eflar>lifh fir fo»ne time
branches of the cuflom-houfe at those places,
where eVery accommodation in his power will
he E lv En to the merchants. diw
TO BE SOLD,
hii And immediate pffijion given,
ife A Convenient well iinifhcd Brick Tenement,
a. , . w ' t ' l a coo ' c ' lou f- and other out houses, fitu
■n atcd in a pleaf.nt part of the borough of Wiltping.
rc I 0"' ,he State of Delaware—The lot of ground
as lias forty feet front on Weft-Oreet. and extend,
through the square to Paftur -ftre«, on which is
ejected a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
W Hminjfton, Aug.
- , Lately Publiflied,
In one vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar in beards) fold
bv MT1.1.1 AM YOUNG, corner of Second and
m Chefnutflreets,
s ' Colleftion of Papers on tliefubjeftof
" r ; Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years past.
Compiled by NOAH WEBSTER, jun.
Containing letters from Dodors Seaman, Smith,
Putl, Taylor, Ramsay, Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch
. ell,on contagion, &c &c.
n
City Ccnimif/ioucrs Office,
August 29, 1797.
IN pursuance of an Ordinance of the Select and
Common Council*, paiTed the lid day otMay last.
Prop.fjJ,in writing tvill he received hy the City
Commifliontrs for one month from the ift of Scp
n tember next, for letting to rent on ieafea for one
year to commence the firft day of January next, the
following public property of the city—
I he wharf and landing on Vine Street,
Also on Saffafra?,
Mulberry,
And High Street',
Chefmit and Walnut Street., straw bridge, with
th« Scale and Fi(h Houits, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets. 1
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
| with the lot. contiguous thereto, (except so much
• thereof as (hall be occupied-by any buildiflgs erefl
j ed for the use of the Colleifior of the Tolls, or be
necefTary for the toll-gates.)
f An K- 3 3taw Im.
.1" LOS T, ~
' i t ' le Paff y. unk Roa< 'i between the Blue Ball
an <l the city, a Fowling Piece, with a brass
t barrel and silver light; on the plate of the butt are
- th« letters " Jamaica, Q_ 99" —and on the barrel
near the lock I-onddn and theTowsr stamp.
- Whoever will return the aid piece to Jeh„ BtnnarJ,
at the sign of the Blue Ball on tb« PafTynnk Road,
. or the office of this Gazette, lhall receive a reward
of Four French Crowns,
Sept. 12. .^ t
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
T'HAT agreeably to an a<3 of Congress ef the
United States of America, pal Ted at Phila
delphia, the 18th day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ties on Carriages, for the conveyance of persons,
which shall be kept by or for any person, for his
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of pafiengcM, the several duties aud
rates following, to wjt :
For and upon every Coach, 15 do!s.
upon evfry dols,
, upon every Poll Chariot, 11 dels,
upon every Pod Chaise, 11 doH.
up'oti every Phaeton,with or without top, '
9 dols.
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon oth.r Carriage*, having pannelv/ork j '
above, with blinds, glaflcs or curtains, ' '
9 dols. L
upon f.ur wheeled Carriages, having fra- '
med pods and top> with flcel springs, 6 '
dols. J
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood- *
etV'r iron fprinps or jacks, 3 dols. «
upon Curricles with tops, 3 dols. J
upon Chaises with tops, 3 q
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with iteel or
iron spring*, 3 dol«.
For and upon all other two wheel carries, 1 dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, hi.ving 0
framed polls and tops, and reding Op- tl
on wooden spars, 2 dols. d
The Collectors of the Revenue for the firft Sur- r>
vey of the Dillriil of Pennsylvania, will attend si
daily, until the _%c th day of September n"xt, for j,
the putpofe of receivingthe duties on Carriagcs, at u
Germantown ; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efq. ( .|
in the County of Montgomery; and at the house
of James Chapman', F/«, iH the County of Bucks ;
of which all perfonspoffefled of such Carriages are j 1
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dif- ol
tilled spirituous liquor*, that licences will be grant- Clt
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the bufi- cl
ness of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities ihan 20 gallons, at
the fame time ai • at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorised te grant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpe&or of the Revenue of the firft fur-
sVe)r of the Diftri&of Pennsylvania.
Office ol Irsfpe&ion at "> . B
Germ an tow, 12th Sept. 1797. J Im
IMPORTED E
I In tho (hip America, James Ewiog, mailer, from
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands
White Ptatillas
Ticklenbxrgs -mm t ■ . '•
Coarse Linen.
Tapes ,
Looking Glaffcs ? . , f ,
Glafi W,ler. j
FOR SALE BY
George Pennock. y
Ajjguß 14. p w
ylft laying Duties an Stamped Vellum,
Parchment and Paper. L
A FEW copies of the above aft may be had at
the Office of the GazetWof ebe Uaited States, No «e
119, Chefiiut-ilreet. j u |y ,
T'/fe Philadelphia, Jltjiot:, and T"uc kerf on
MAILS T A G E.
, T beg leave to inform the public, tint
' they bare eftablifed a Stt?ge befit •eeti Philadelphia i
e i 0n -> Ba tfio, Hampton, SpCexivill, aml AfUrtba Fur
e" aa ff* H retl, 'i' : g R' flitting mill', and the town of Tucl
tre c > >f», in to go, onp a week, andare pi wui
he. ded with good horses, a comfortable carriage, and a care
as sol driver, for the conveyance of the ma il, pa {[angers, and
ne goods. The Stage ivill fart every Thursday, at 10
■ s » 0 G - e£^ » *4. M. frtm Mr. Daniel Cooper s Ferry t and
ill lodge that night at yoel jfzdin/e % at Longacoming ; and
cn on Friday, at '6 o*elect, P. M. arrive at Cxleb E
vans j' , n,keeper, in Tucker ton, diflant from the city 54
miies, (from, the Atlantic 6, andfrom the Fafl Groufwg
1 loins 7 miles J inhere are good for tea
it, ye!lets, ana where are coqimodious and fafe pass ige boats
u- provided to convey to Capt. William War
£- rin gtons house, en Tuck.rs If and, adjoining the A:-
ul I antic, Iwhere are good accommcaations, ahd a convenient
J# place to katle ; the foerfnan who ivijhes to regale hi.vfelf \
15 iritb fnvit tg andffh.pg, may at this place be htghlfgra
tified, there being at afmofl every season of the year fowl
<*>tdfjh in abundance —The Stage on its retuln, fUrtt
Jroyn the { dforefaid C Evans's in Tuckerton, bvery "Tues
day. at 6 0 clock, A, M. bre.tkfafls at john Bodint s, at
l>' ading River Bridge, lodge that night at Z.ongaco,ning,
111 and at 1 c clock, P. As. on Wedntfday, arrive at the
id aforefaid Cooper s Ferry. 11 is presumed that no route of
an equal diflant e will be less expensive, or fornijh the tta
)f veller with a greater variety of amusement, as, he ivill
d not °"b ,M:ve a p leaf ant fail to the atlant-c from Tucker
ton, but have the curicjity of feeing on ibe road thither a
number of capital furnaces **d forges, and one flitting
j ntill, rn complete ord.r, and at work ; gentlemen, too, who
are owners, or fiflors, of any of the aforefaid iron works,
are foil cited to encourage and support this sagef a ge (by ivh ch
they can le so well accommodaedJ the continuance of which
will much depend on tfteir aid. The rates of
and brggagtr are as f llows : For a fajfenger from tie
aforefaid Da-id Cuoper*t Ferry to Tuckerton, inclndbg
14 Ib. oj baggage, 'iwo Dollars ; so? way poffpngers
permiU t Four Cots—ijo lb. (f baggage eqtfal to a pas*
• fonder. Pof age of letters, ne^ifpapers, &c. -will Le
y agreeably to law.
" The mail crosses from the Old Ferry.-
e , THOMAS WARDLE & Co.
e Tuckerton, Sept. 28. G&. 5 .—taivtf
To be Sold,
And immediate pofleflion given,
That elegant feat, called BLOOMS BURY*, the
rcfidence of the late John Cox, Esq. with a
-1 bout 50 acres of Land, fituite on the Delaware, ex
r tending from the mouth of Afiaiipickcnjek, to Tren
ton ferry. The mansion house is a handsome well
conftruded brick building, 50 oy 40 feet, contain
, ing four roon>«; on each floor, with excellent cellars,
1 and a two flory brick kitchen. Among tfte out
■ buildings are a flone coach house and. Rabies, fuf
' ficient t« contain fix carriages and ten horses, and
a stone cow house, upwards of 100 feet in length.
There is aHo a ft one farm house with corn cribs,
wa £S on house, &c. &c. The whole of the premi-
fes proposed to be fold with this feat, from their fitu
_ apon and improvements, are such as to be worthy
' the attention of any gentleman wiftiing to retire
I from the city. There are also about 25 acres ad-
joining the above, which will be d : vided so as to
accommodate the purchasers* Also, 100 acres ad
' joining the town lots on the east fide of the ftrect <
leading from Trenton to Lamberton, which will
be fold together or in lots, as may best suit the pur
chaser, and 230 acres of woodland, two miles from ,
the above lancj> which will also be divided if re
quired. 7he term* of payment will be made easy, |
and an indisputable title given. For further parti
cularsenquire of Mrs. Cox, No, 144, South Fourth
street, Philadelphia, John Stevens, Efq Hoboc
ken, Mathias Barton, Esq. of Lancaster, or the
fubfefiber at Trenton.
MASKELL EWING.
Trenton, Sept. 25, 1797.
Sept. 30. dtf.
At the Federal Blalt Furnace, ,
In Carver—/or Slitting, Platting, and Retting I (
Mills. j e
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers. j t
THEM J'upenority fonjjfls in being free from c
boles and honey-combed plates* ivbictj are com- e
monly found in rollers ca/l in sand, or clay 1
j Moulds, Thefts patent rollers are, caji in ircn 1
j moulds, p'. tr 6 'fly be a t td, and <wi!l be found to '
• be wore dtr.fei foliJ and durable than any rollers
heretofore used. Anoihtr important advantage
they : have ever others, is, that the fiecks require r.
no turning) but are immeduitely fit for use, and
from thei' accuracy» run wit bless fr iff ion, and 0
require less looter to via he them'perform their n
zvorl-. They may be bad by application-to the i,
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Good- a
win, or of Messrs. and Haylvard c
Bfifton, Aug. 3r. Srpt. 19 §ft o
TttESUBSCRIUtRS, ;!
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREENLF.AFj 0
HEREBY piVi.- notice, that they have disposed
of the property afli<rned to them for the securing ft
the payment of the note , acceptances, ind en- tl
dorfements given hy Edward Fox, for the ufc <->
of thefeid James Greenleaf; and the holders of c
such notes, afcteptances, and endorsements, are '«
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will {Wile 1
with them for the amount of their refpc&ivc •'
claims, both principal and interest, at ll
any time before the acth day of Oflober next ; t( .
after which dav, the holders net applying, will a
be exi luded, agreeably to the terms of aflign- V
m.ent.
Applications to be made at south-east corner al
of Dock and Second streets (the Dock-street "
fide), between the hours of eievtn and one o' at
clock every day, Sunday excepted.
Henry Prait, v(
7ho. fV. Francis, ol
John Miller, Jun. 01
John AJhley,
Jacob Baker. c
Philadelphia, Angwft 18, 179 J. d t[]
This Day is PubJifhed, t' l
BY MeflT. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric , and the
other Bookfellcrs, r w
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents.
Eleganty printed ■on Wove paper, and Hot- ai
P rr l ed > "
By Jolm Thnmpfon,
A COMPARATIVE VI£WOF f( ,
The Constitutions
Of the several Spates with eSch other, and with e?
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables. P C
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
cUlfing together their roOst important provisions,
under the several of administration •, with ur
Notes andObL'rvations.
By WILLfAM SMITH,
Of South Careline, fe<
L L. D. and member of the Congrsfs of the lu
United States-. ad
Dedicated to th« People of the United States. uc
N. B A few Cani s printed on an inferior pa- |
jer, at 3-4thsaf a dollar.
February 6 »i\vf
I homas Herman Leuffer,
North I'ifth (lract, corner of North alky, No. 34,
■at HAS FOR SALE,
IV i' red Bourdeaux Wiae in caf.t and
ir- -* boxes, lis years old
White Gcavos Wipe In cafbq
■I- Ticklcnburgs
Russia Sail Cluthi
nd Ravens Duck
10 Bag Linen
:,J Hessians
nd Diaper and Table C!otl|
E. Emmy lags ,
■ 4 Cfcrenron Gertnan Cloth
,r An assortment of black coloured Ribboal
(/ > F>ne German La^s
u About twelve ton. Russia clean Hemp
r . Clover Seed
... Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family ufa
"I Windoir dlaft />u g 29 law
l f This day was published,
" And farOleliy 7TJOM/IS DOBSON, at til*
J ! S:ons House, No. 41, south Second street,
EVENINGS at HOME ;
it OR »THE JUVENILE BUDGET O-I .NED.
Confining of a variety of Mifeellaneom Pieces for
1, the inftruclinn and cmufement of YOUNG PER-
Z —Hx printctlaud bound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
11 Ihe variety and excellence of thefc pieces are
_ uich, that the book needs only to be known to b«
a Jl niv s one of the most valuable pub
„ licatiotis th t can be put into thfc haiu's of voun^
persons. *
r , Delightful talk to rear the tender thought.
o ' 0 the young; idi a how tu (hoot,
jj To pour :> frelK itrfifudiofi o'er the mind,
f 'breatherh' enlivening fyirit, and to fix
e The generous purpose in theglowmg bread.'*
if Thomson'.
* 24-
" thls d y\ is published;
' By THOMAS DOBSON, at the Stone Houfa,
No. 41, south Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Young Ladies, 02 improving and ia
terelling l'ubjefls.
Tranfluted from tie Dutch of Madam dc Camion
with alterations and improvements,
; Frintcd inJim paper, anil neatly bound,
Plice one deli dr.
AMIDST thetide of modern Romances, pamtirg
. tales ef extraordinary distress, or of desperate cr
| artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
. which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
, b<e ignorant of, this little book comes forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the hounds of real life, the proper, bifeaui*
L elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
, character is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
, and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publisher was so much pleased with the pen*
fat, that he was persuaded he should do a pleasing
forvice to the community by fending it in o circu
lation. August 34 —mw4w
To Maftert and Pilots bringing •up Vefftk
from Foreign Ports to this City.
TTTHereas sundry infringements have lately
VV made on the laws of this Hate for the pre
venting pestilential or infesftious difa&fes, eithet
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho'f
expedient at this time to Dubliib the following ex*
tracts from the laws of lid April, 1794, 7th a«4
Bth fe&ions;
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794.
Extrntt of an alt for securing the city and par%
of Philadelphia from the introeluftion of pesti
lential and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And be it Further enabled, that every
mailer or captain of any fliip or vessel coming front
sea (vefleli dually employed in the coaftmg trade
erccpted) and bcimd to any fciort or place within
the jnrildiclion of Peflnfylvania.ihail etufe his ship
or vend to be brought to anchor,or otherwise llay
eJ in the dream of the river Delaware, oppofit* to
the Health-Office on Statc-Ifljnd aforefbid, and
there to remain until he (ha|l have duly obtaiiwd a
certificate or bill of heal li from the Refidcnt Phy
iican. Ard il, previeufly to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any matter or captain (hall
fyfTer his ship or vessel to approach neartr than the
said Health-Olfice to the city of Philadelphia, or
fliall Und, caufeorfufftrto be landed, orbrouo-ht
on (bore, at any place or port within this Corn
niDnweaith, or at any other port or place, with the
intent oi being conveyed into ti?is Commonwealth,
any p<-rfon or perfrns, or any goods, wares or mer
chandize. or, if after receiving such bill of health
o. certificate, he lhall ncglcd or refufe to delivet .
tl>e fanv to the Health-pfficer, such master tre cap
tain (hall forfeit am p y, for each and every such
offence, thtfumof five uunored dollahs.
And the captain or master of every (Inp or ves
sel (hall fend a Cafe and commodious boat to bring
the physician on hoard, and fnall in like manner
con v y hill) back to the Health-Office, after he has
concluded his official examination ; ,4nd while he
i« making such examination, or in cafe any fubfe
cuest examination by the Heal.h Officer or Con-
I lilting Physician, agreeably to the directions of
thi* .lil, the mailer or captain (hall expo.'e or caufo
to beexpofed to the fearth of the Rcfider.t Phyfi.
cian.or of the Healtii Officer and Confuting Physi
cian (as the cafe may be) each and every part of the
(liiC or veffiel, =nd (hall prefer.t to his view each
andi every pcrfon cr persons on board thereof, and
and fliall also true and fatisfadlory anf«crs liiaku
to all such quellions as the Resident Physician, &c.
at the time of examination (hall alk relative to th«
health of any pottor place from which the (hip or
vessel failed, or has since touched at—tho number
of persons on board when the (hip or vessel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that havo
since been landed or taken 0:1 board, aad wlv.i.
and whererefpedively— what persons on board—
/ they have been during the voyage, or (hall, at
the time of examination, be infeded with any pef.
tilential or contagious disease—and what is the pro-
Tent (tate and condition of the persons on board
with rtfpcvl to their health or diseases. And il
any miller or Captain lhall refufe to expose as afore
aid, to the search of any of the officers aforcfiid,
» il he (hall conceal anyjick person, or in any other max.
[e r deceive tie proper Officers aforefaid in bis antioer,.
ucTi captain or master, tor every such offence, (ball
forfeit and pay the fuai of Fire hundred note
LARS.
Sect. 8. And if sny person or persons whatso
ever (the Rcfident Physician, &e. excepted) (hall
go on board any vessel, before the mailer theretf
his received a certificate of health in the manner
diredled, every person so offending, (hall pay th#
Um of ONJt HUNDRED DOLLARS
IT beifig absolutely necessary that the foregoing
fedlions (hould be ptindiually com-plied witl , tiss
fubferiber, in compliance with his duty, nwft ex
aCl a rigorous obf, rvance of the lame,,or eke be
under fh«i neceflity of putting the laws in force.
V\ M. A LI.EN, Hc.iltb Officer of th
Bert of FliUdAph'ux.
J«'r i - diw
[Volume XII.%%t ©a?ette. «*
" to*
PHILADELPHIA, „ a t
."A'fUDAY EVENING, OctobV.r ;r co;
—..... ... 1... the
i- f the G-izett* (,f the United States' \
/ —, tVi
Philadelphia, 0 Sober sth, 1797* [^'s
* , Mr. B. WYNKOOP. ' I tbl
Sir,
I Finished my lad: address to you with a
Y>roni?f</ to furnifli you with extrafts from T!
Monro, ChiAioltn and Brice, in proof that
the Ttilcnv Fever originates from human ef
fluvia, And not from vegetable putrefaftion.
Dr. Monro, in his account of the dif
tnfeG which ucre prevalent it the military
Tiofpitals in Germany, from January, 1761). j of
to March, 1763, observes, that "in ajl jg!
who were very ill with the putrid th
from contagion, the countenance appeare|d fr
bloat rd, and the eyes reddilh and inflamed la
t lie fki'n commonly dry. By these fym|l- w
toms one might frequently discover that tHe m
natisnt. labeured ur.der a malignant fever." p<
!fage 40. is
" In toe continued fever from re
fays Dr. Clark, the «ountenance is much m
'altered, and dejefled. Early in the disease Ii
jtlie t ves become 'f<iffufed, an,d look as if , ti<
they -vcre iftjefted with a mixture of red ni
and veilowj" _ (Diseases of long voyages, tl
vol. i'. p. 257.)
Tft.it the yelloiii fever and the pestilential 1
fever fco(h originate from the fame cause,
appears evident from the journal ( of the T
French physicians, publilhed in 1770; and
also from Ruffel's Vlefcription of it at Alep
po. Red eyes, burning heat at stomach in ci
the early fhge, inceflant vomitings and yel- rr
lownefs cf the eyes and whole furface of ft
the bndv, are common to both diseases. t!
" I "was favored with the following ac-- 0
count, fays Dr. C. Chilholm, by Mr. J. v
Paiba, a gentleman who was one of the p
adventurers in the scheme for fettling a co- a
lony at Bulam in Africa, and whq, despair- t5
Sag of success, left that coast in the ship It
Hankey, commanded by cftpt. Coxe, and b
arrived at the port of St. George, in the 1 c
island of Grenada, on the 19th of Febru- d
aryj i,793» in a very diftrefled situation. f<
" This vefTel lay for a few days in the n
bay, but waß afterwards brought into the b
carenage; having only seven persons ort a
board, two of whom being very ill, were o
immediately carried on shore. g
" The Hankey had failed from e
in company with another /hip, both char-s a
tered by the Siera Leona. company, loaded t
with stores and adventures for the projeifted e
colony of Bulam, about the beginning of u
April, 1792. t
" At this island (which is about 45 n
miles in tfircumferende, and situated 11 deg. , t
N. almost in the mouth of Rio-Cirande, j r
enjoying all the advantages of the fea-1 r
brceize, and entirely exempt from marshy r
trafts) the Har.key lay nine months, dtar- I
ing which time the settlers, amounting to f
more than 2CO persons, were under the ne- I
cefiity of living on board. The rainy fen- 1
Ton coming on immediately after their art
rival, and the heat being at the fame, time 1
excefiively great, they endeavoured to (hel- <
ter themselves from both by railing the fides 1
of the (hip several feet, and covering her 1
with a wooden roof, <
In this situation a malignant "fever was <
generated, and destroyed three-foui ths of 1
all the unfortunate adventurers on board. 1
Captain Coxe finding the water brackish
and difagveeable at Bulam, proceeded with
his (hip to BifTaa, a Portuguese settlement,
for a supply. The (hip was navigated by ,
12 seamen who had not been on board that
fliip before. 'Nine of these died before the
return of the Hankey to Boulam ; and the
remainder, with the captain, were reduJfcd
to a deplorable condition.
When the time for which the Hankey had
been chartered was expired, (he put to sea
with Mr. Paiba, the captain, (who was sick
at the time) the mate and two mariners,
Which were all that could "be procured to
navigate her. They arrived, after much
difficulty, at St. Jago, where they met with
the Charon and Scorpion, (hips of war ;
from each of these they received two mari
ners ; and with this aid they proceeded to
the Weft-Indies, a voyage to England be
ing impra&icable in their condition. Three
days after leaving St. Jago, the men were
seized with fever. Two of th? four died ;
the remaining two were put on shore sick
as Won as the vefTel arrived at the port of
St. George, on the 19th of February, as
already mentioned.
The manner in which this diftafe was
firft communicated, and its subsequent pro
gress, too clearly evinced its malignant and
pestilential nature.
Captain Remington, an intimate acquaint
ance of captain Coxe, was the firft person
that visited the Hankey after her arrival in
St. George's Bay. He went on board in
the evening, and continued on board three
days ; be then proceeded in a coasting vefTel
to Greenville Bay, to his own ship the Ad
venture ; w ' as seized with a fever on the pas
sage, and diea three days after.
The mate, boatswain, and 4 Tailors, be
longing to the Defiance, went on board the
Hankey the day after her arrival—were all
seized loon after with the fever, and all, ex
cept the wiate, died i(i 3 days. The crew
of the ship Baillies, from the fame imprudent
civility or curkifity, were the next that fuf
fered* From these it gradually spread by
contagion to all the ships in the Carenage,
and destroyed more than 200 out of 500 sea
men, who were employed in the .regular
trade, from the beginning of March to the
end of May.
AWit the middle of April tne fever be
gan to appear on shore. ihe firft house it
made its appearance in was that of Meflrs.
Stowewood and Co. situated near the wharf;
and tY contagion was evidently introduced
by a Negro wench who took in sailors
cloaths to°wafh. The whole of the family
were fucccffiveiy affected, and by them tl.e
fever was communicated to several of thelt mar
acquaintances, * '" ot
The manner in which it spread In the C 1 '
town, clearly 'dero.nftratcd its contagious
nature, and no jnflance occurred where it
could not be traced to communication with ,
the infe&ed. * j .
\ More than one-third of all the inhabi- ™
Vdifeafe ceased, and about one in five <af all
I that were infeclcd died.
[To le continued."]
u J wi
The, following extraift is taken from the ob- ! s
of Dr. Todd, physician in Ja
maica, on the yellow fever, publiflied in ,
Duncan's annals of medicine for the yesir'
1796,'pape 342. t"
" After a salivation has faccecded the use
, of calomel, the peruvian bark is generally' j
I J given with, success, to restore the tone of i
r the stomach, and to restrain the difeharge , L
1 front the month. The cold-bath has been '
; lately tried without success. Blood-letting, ' 1
- which edited so much difcufiion, and had so
: many advocates in consequence of the tem- en
' porary abatement of the general fymtbms,
is now very nearly abandoned ; nor was it
, relinquished by its supporters, but on the
l most complete proofs of its fatal effedls.—
e Indeed the minds of medical men appear
f' ; now to be made up as to the proper treat
i ment of this fever, and in mercury is placed
~ ;their dependance."
il Tie Commi/ftone' s for alleviating the dijlrejfts
, of the citizens of Philadelphia, life.
e To the Inhabitants of said city and its
1 • • • ' ot
d vicinity
Permit us to address you at this awful '
n crisis, and to lay before you a brief state-
- ment of the diftrefling situation of our fuf- .
f fering fellow-citizens. It is known to you
. that on the firft day of September we ac
cepted of the appointment from the go-
vernor, to a& as commissioners for the pur- j
e pose of relieving the indigent, by donation
I- and employment, with the ftipulattd sum
rJ -of ten thousand dollars, granted by the
p legislature ; and We presume it was generally
d believed at that time to be more than fuffi-
d cient, arising from an expectation that the
1- disease would soon abate, and that our ah-
sent friends would return aad employ- a
e ment to those whose resources were cut off j.
e by their leaving the city ; but, ali\! how
it are We disappointed in our expectation, for
e our fcity yet continues in the fame desolated |
gloomy state, and consequently all means of j
employment for the inouftrious mechanic
and labeurer are still suspended. Add to
d j this the numerous body of females that pro-
d cured a livelihood by wafiiingj ironing, j'
)f needle work, &c. who are left de{litute of
their usual means of fabfiftence, besides a
5 number who are aged and infirm, that used
r. j to obtain relief from the bounty of their
», 1 more able friends and relations, as well as j
i- i many seamen's wives who depend on the
y merchant for part of their husband's month
r- ly pay, and who are now deprived of relief
0 from that source. Tn this deplorable fitua-
e- tion we found not less than three thousand
r- people, including children, when we under
r- took to execute the trust reposed in us : the f
number of these have since greatly iacreaf- (
;1- ed, and they still remain in the fatpe fuffer- j
es ing condition, with this difference, then
er thty had the consoling refleftion, that the
commiflionerj had ten thousand dollars rea- £
as dy to meet their exigencies, but now it is
of expended ; and lamentable for us to be (
obliged to inform them, " We know not j
fh where to fend you, or what to advise you
th to do—Our money is gone.*—We have to (
it, acquaint you we cannot promise your fraall (
by pittance one week longer—we feel for you •
jt —we ftiffer with you—we know your dif- j
h e tress—what can we do ?—We can only pro- i
he mife you we will make your situation know* '
fcd to our fellow-citizens, and you imift rely |
on their benevolence."
ad Friends and Ftllotv-eitizins,
"ea If you mean to give relief through us,
ck we have only to observe that our endeavours
rs, shall be to continue to diftriftite it, accord
to ing to your benevolent intentions and their
ch ntceffities. Ifj on the Other hand, it should
ith be your pleasure to entrust your monies for
ir ; the above purj>ofe, in the hands of any o
iri- ther set of men, we shall hold ourselves ,
to bound to give all and every information or |
be- afliftance that experience has furnifhed us 1
ree with, so as to facilitate your laudable pur- j
ere poses 5 and in either cafe we think it pro- !
d ; per to annex our names and places of abode,
[ck THE CITY.
of Robert Wharton, S. Third street, No- 135.
as Edward Garrigues, Cherry street, No. 39.
George Krebs, N. Fifth-ftreet, No. 17.
vas John James, do. No. 18.
ro- Israel Israel, Corner of Chefnut and Third,
ind Thomas Savery, N. Fifth street, No. 20.
WORTHERN LIBERTIES.
Int- Samuel Wheeler, Vine street, No. 99.
son John Wagner, Noble street.
lin George Ingles, New Market street.
j n SOUTHWARK.
ir(re William Linnard, S. Second street.
ifTel Robert M'Mullen, Swanfon street, No. 60.
* This relates to the 10,000 dollars—(he
pas. Ccmmiftoners have yet in hand part, of the
private donations.-
be- '
,u. MR. FENNO,
,1 As I deem Facts of more flriking efficacy in
e exploding the murderous fyftemof Blood, than ar
gument, ridicule or wit ; 1 tnink it a duty in
reW cumbent on every f' ierd to mankind to come fot--
lent wart! with such as pass under his own observation,
f f (n aid of,the laudable defignofexpofing a fyftcm,
■ T and fatal to ItKicty.
I by * A CITIZEN.
sge, - A FACT,
f ea _ Tn evidence againji Blood.
ular In a family by the name of Moor;, cens'lir<; of
t L tivclve persons, and living in the foathern part of
the ci:y, ' leven have been down with the fever.
One pl.yfvilan attended them all. And they are
be- jn now alive and well. Not an ounce of Hood
fc it vas drawn.from either of th.m-but fweatmgand
.flVs 1 the oth< r usual depleting recnedics were resorted
arf ; ; to, and produced tliis remarkable fu.c.fs
iced j ; n (i a . ce ii trumpeted forth to the public
l°rs' ! c f itii!ividuafsree»veriiigunderimmenlblofsofblpod,
mily a -e to bf viewed ocly as so many eyid.tnccrof what
tl e j the human body it capable »f undergoing. Every
man •» these occaGrw,fliauMaflc, " How mtfrfi
sooner Vv trill A this msii' ba« revovct&i) under a
different plan of operation ?
Prom, the Ph'tlhMpbin.Gazctte-
J MK. Erown,
THE public attention has for some time
pad been dire'&ed to the praflice of physic,
and much personality has unfortunately been .
the consequence. A fubjeft which embraces
the iuterefts of society, in whfch
health even life are involved, can be viewed
with indifference by no-thinking being. It :
is not, however, front unqualified affection .
Or illiberal abuse, that we are to expe& in
formation : These may draw down upon
J.heir authors the well-earned contempt of
an ,'cnlightened public, -but can never affqft .
principles which must dftpend upon fafts "
ialone for their refutation tmd eftab'i'hment.
! The praftice of copious bhedirigin pefti-
lential diseases is by no means new, and the
janly reason why it appears so at present is,
.that diseases of this class, till very lately,
have been almost strangers among us. Di
emerbrock in Holland, Botallus in France,
and Sydenham in England, physicians of the J
lad dentury, whose medical abilities have
long received the grateful tribute of the
world, recommend this practice in terms of (
the strongest approbation and prove its utili
ty by numerous fafts.—The life of mercury
in diseases of this class, with the iingle ex- j.
ception of- small pox, is probably more re- .
cent, but there is no physician in this city
who makes any pretension to the honor of
this valuable discovery; To have employed
remedies which the repeated experience of
others had proved to be beneficial, and which
were fanftioned by the most refpe&abl?
names in medecine»,ar,d to persevere in their J
use after the cleared proofs of their efficacy,
is a merit which cannot with justice be de-
mVd to many of them. j
There is no way in which the public can j.
form a correft judgment of the fsfety and
ufefulnefji of these remedies, but by a candid
ftatemerit Of fafis. If every'phvfician would j
ftatt the numberxif patients he has attended
in the prevailing epidemic, the manner they j
have been treated, and the termination of
each cafe, whether favorable or otherwise ; /
there would then be a mals of evidence, from
which every unprejudiced mind might form
- a fatisfadfory conclusion. Till something
like this is done, disputes will be endless, j.
and the candid enquirer will find the fubjeft
I involved in impenetrable darkness. ImprefTed
. with the truth and importance of this obser
vation, I take the liberty of mentioning that
since the twenty-fourth of August last, I .
1 hnye been called to sixteen cases of the pre-
vailing fever. Three of these, viz. Ri hard (
p Davis, Neil M'Gongal, and Michael M'Far-
lan, were by my advice removed to the hof- j
j pital. Richard Davis I saw twice, and the
others once each, before removal. The re- j
mainiag thirteen continued under my care :
" they generally had comfortable apartments, |
and attentive nurses. Every one of these
p patients I bled more or less. From one I
ttook between sixty and seventy ounces at fix
j bleedings :of the others some were bled five (
and some four times— two but Jwice each,
and in one cafe, a lingle bleeding was fuffici
c ent. The bleedings were all performed on
the firft days of the disease, and immediate
ly afttr the firft bleeding in every cafe, I
11 began the use of mercury, both internally
and externally, with the intention of pro
' ducing salivation as soon as pofiible ; nor did
S I judge my patients fafejintil the mouth was
£ < eonfiderably afft&ed. Particular symptoms
; sometimes required attention, to relieve
U which various other remedies were originally
employed ; but to remove the disease I
trulted chiefly to bloodlettiug and mercury.
? By steadily purfning'this plan I have the
I fatisfa&ion to add that I have not loft a
X patient. Nine of the thirteen are now-well,
j and of the remainder, three are in a state of
convalefcence, and the state of the fourth is
aot yet decided, tho' I have reason to hope
a favorable termination.
I am vours, &c.
FRANCIS BOWES SAYRE.
,'1 From the /!sta tic Mirror.
Mr. Editor,
Some of the Calcutta papers have lately
3 given an account of the Sheep-eater, at
I Lucknow, as a prodigious wonder. You
0r i will find that v the Faquier's appetite is that
115 \ of a delicate lady, when compared with the
r I voraeioufnefs of the all eating man, at Wit
temberg, of whom the following is. the ac
,e* count, sent you for republication by one of
your
Decern. 5, 1796. READERS.
There ha? publithed at Wittembcrg,
a freond cditio.i (ff a veryxurious picc«, entitled,
'd. "De Polyphafo et AlUtnophago Wittebergenfi
1. Differtatio, pstfide D. G. H. Boehemcr. refp C.
G. Trenxel." This it an account of one »f the
most prodigious eaten ever heard of : I his mm
at pleasure for he did it only to git mo'Ky,would
eat up a whole therp.or pig, and sometimes a bush
el or two of eherrle*, fton;s, and all; and even
things of a deftruihve quality, and which oth*-
men would on no conGdunrtion attempt, did not af
fright him, breaking with his teeth, maflicating
and swallowing glass and earthet-veiTels, and flints.
the jje has been seen to irigurgitati a bagpipe with all
the its appurtenances, living creatures, birds, mice,
aud catferpillars, by handfuls. And, what seems
beyond Ml belief, a tin ftandiih being oflered him
hijfi by way of defiance, he made no Bones of it,
but devoured it, together with the pens, p«"knife,
10 ink, and find. This lad fadt, indeed, is so Grange,
ar ~ that though there it for certain, though the
celebrated author of this di flotation makes no
° r " question of it, and (even credible witneflcs made
icn ' Oath of it before tile worlhipful senate, it is appro
cm> bonded many will rejstft it as an imposture. J liis
. rnormous eater, however, was uncommonly flroug
and rohuft.and onti»ned his atchievem nts, which
turned to good account, to the.age of sixty years;
f when, betaking hi. felfto a regular life, hereach
-1 tl.or difqovered many extraordinary particulars, of
r * which he gives a very circumstantial account, to
ar® gether with the hiilory of several other Mceffire
00 'j eaters; and concludes with an enquiry into the
c.iutVs of such a ftratlge faculty.
Public Notice is hereby, given,
blie THAT the Comniiflioncrs for the Diflriit of
ood, Southwark have removed their hall to the house
irhat formerly occupied by Samuel Cf uff, in ChriOian at
,'ery the corner'ei Fifth llrect. o<3. a.
" "■ w"»i——«—wpww——wwiiiiiiw goi
BALTIMORE, OiSoher pai
Extraft of a letter from a refpeftable gentle- mo
man in Philadelphia, to his frifrid in this tiOi
city, dated.September 28. t' ol
" DEAR SIR, us :
" We are truly sorry to find the fever are
hath broken out in your city. Do not run wi(
linto unnecessary danger. It rages here with the
violence, and too many die. For the
God's fake do not let your electors bleed
the pejple to death. If highly inflamed 1
citizens, let twelve ounces of blood be taken ral
immediately, give a(stive purges and sweats, lan
and cooling dilating drinks, and if pofiible ° n<
keep up perspiration. ne j
" If the difvafe is obstinate, use plentiful lea
glisters, and keep the body ofien at all e- In
vents ; and in the last stages, flannels wet in ed
warm brandy, applied to the stomach and tuj
feet,, with bliftcrs on the ankles and wrists. ,
" The disease hath pafled through seven
famib'es, who are my tenants, and all have ck
recovered by this jreatment. Use no wine.i he
nor barks. Barley water, tamarind water, I tei
camomile tea, lemonade, and a whey made r y
of ci-fam of tartar for drink. j ha
" Very thin broths, boiling water pour- ! no
ed off thin diced veal, weak tea, See. &c. for ; ga
'nouriftiment—thus treated, unde divine pro- . Ft
vidence, nineteen in twenty will r«cover. tmi
" God bless and preferveyou and all our ' m:
friends, an'd restore your citizens to health, i fa
is my earnest prayer." j
PITTSBURGH, Sept. %o. L
COMMUNICATION. &
When ivt art in the utmoß hazard of open 1 g«
<war with the French ; when their spies are E
out among Ms., vienjing our frontier forts ar.d th
attempting to rouse the Indians againfl us; when to
all Frenchmen are daily abu/in* our govern- j si'
ment and telling us that we will be humbled un- i fa
der the all powerful arm of the terrible repub- J ki
lic,fhall we be so mad as to efe3 a Frenchman h(
one of our representatives in this county? IVould S;
they do such an aft in France f Did they not in
drive Paine out of. the National Convention es
because he was not a native of France although 01
he was an American ? Shall we be so little care- so
ful in this trying crijis as to Jrufl our dearejl tl
interefls to a man who can hardly speak <mr lan
guage, and who, if he has any attachment to his cc
native country, cannot in this contfl be well assist- at
ed towards America? Common sense, foundpo- e;
licy and our national interejl forbiafuch a hare.- ol
ardous choice. , ol
-i. o
Mr» Scull, nr
The information in yow last paper of an ai
infurrettion among the inhabitants at Nat
chez is not correft. It is at K.afka(kias,and in tl
the neighbourhood of that place that the p
French settlers have been instigated by Span- t
ifh and French emissaries to throw off their p
allegiance to the United States and ereft the (1
standard of the French Republic. General 1
Wilkinfon on his march with a strong de- 1;
tachment of Federal troops to fuppvefs the c
insurgents.—These wicked French emissa
ries are also endeavouring to prefuade the c
Indians into another war with us), and a par- f
ty of the f ivages has actually attempted to f
get poffeflion of Fort Recovery but were <
defeated with the loss of two or three killed, r
It gives us great uneaiinefs to learn that i
three Frenchmen who passed through this 1
place some yeeks ago, have been addressing \
themselves to Cornplanter's Indians and tei- c
j ling them that they were oppressed by the c
United States and would never be happy t
till their old friends the French were in pof- <
' fefiionofthe country again. It is fi'id the In
diansliften tothefe speeches with grea'.atten- 1
tion and there is reason to fear the vile incendia- <
rie* who are how among the western tribes 1
| will be too fuccefsful in their endeavours to 1
kindle the flames of another bloody war on
oar frontiers.
» I
s
e By this day's •vlail.
BOSTON, O&ober 3.
Very Recent Foreign Advices.
Last evening arrived (hip Minerva, Gupt.
Turner, 42 Ziays from Cawfand Bay. By
t fudge Tudor, who was passenger in this
u ihip, lVe were indulged with the loan of an
t Engliih paper of August twenty one, from
' which we make the following intercfting
Extrafts:
LONDON, August 15.
As on the one band the French Di're&ory
have violated the Constitution by their mil
■ itary-manoeuvre*, so on the other hand, the
T Legislative Body, in assuming to themselves
d, the right of establishing a Military Guard
ifi and of appointing the officers who arc to
-■ command it, seem to have entrenched on
4e the perogatives of the Executive power. —
U How far they may deem themselves juftified
ti- by. the necessity of the cafe, and on a prin
;n ciple of felf-defence, is another question.
But it is a neceflary consequence, that where
f " a Constitution is formed upcmab'lracf prin
'f ciples, without any attention to the state
ill of society, or any regard for experience, the
:c > boundaries of power will remain undefined,
m and perpetual contests and confufion ensue.
j™ _ August 17.
f c ' Many think the Peace between Portugal ;
re, and France, will accelerate Peace between
he us and the Republic. Having no allies to
att'end to, we may certainly hope for over
, tures, more according to the disposition and
hi, int,ercft of our government,
ug This' Peace appears extraordinary, ,as the
ch Court of Portugal, gave fervent assurances
s , ! of remaining with lis. It had not, howe
iu- vtr ' S ot 'he last fubfttiy of 200,00q1. about
of 70,000 only had been paid,
to- After a Cabinet meeting on the late dif
vc patches from Lille, reports were current,
:hc that favourable news had been received from
thence.
PARIS, August 12.
u( . It appears certain that 10,000 men from
,Vt the army of the §ambre and Meufe, who
were to have arrived at Rheims yeftcrday,are
going to Brest. Other detachments'»re re
pairing thither by other rouses. These
movements appear to announce the execu
tion of the long proj-fted maritime expedi
tion is at hand ; a circumstance wWich makes
us apprehensive thatthe negociations at Liflc
are not in such forward rtate as all France
wifhe3 them to be. In spite, however, of
these hostile appearances, we still preserve
the hope that peace is not far off.
August 13.
One mo/e step is made towards the gene
ral pacification ! One ally taken from Eng
land ; one branch of the coalition cut off;
one additional motive for believing that the
negociations at Lisle will be fuccefsful, or, at
lead, that their progress will be more rapid :
In (hort, a treaty of peace has been conclud
ed between the French republic and Por
tugal.
, This treaty appears to be very advanta
geous to France ; among many other arti
cle? relating to a trade of which France has
never yet partaken ; since (he is treated bet
ter than the moil favored nation ; since eve
j ry thing favors reciprocal imports, and {he
1 balance of all in favor of France, who drinks
: none of the wine of Eortuga!, while Portu
gal confunves a considerable quantity of
French wines ; since Portugal accords a di
minution of the duties on importation ; it
may be farther remarked, how much we are
favored in many other refpe&s.
The treaty obliges Portugal to admit no 1
more than fix ships of war into the port of
Lifbon,and in her smaller ports, only three
I ships of war, belonging to each of the beili
-1 gerent powers. It may be seen, that as
England has 110 allies who fend fliips into
those parts, this article is very advatitagetras
to France ; since fix French, fix Dutch, and
I fix Spanish (hips, my be at Li'bnm at the
i faree time, againft-fix Enjlifh. It is alfd
; known, that the Englidi have no otherhar
bonrs in those seas, France has those of
Spain.; thus it was of great consequence to
insert the article by which Poftugal engag
es to admit no pnzes taken by Ihips of war
or privateers, into her ports. They ever, go
so far as to prohibit the sale of mtrcandize
that is captured on board a (hijS.
Nothing can be more favortible and en
couraging to the national induflry than the
article which promises a kind of premium, an
extraordinary diminution *%Hty, in favor
of articles imported from Enrobe by eithet
of the contracting parties into the dominions
of the other, provid d the cargoes belong to
merchants of the nation that'ifnports, and
are imported in (hips of that nition.
We may fee by the secrecy with which
this negociation was conducted, and the rt- '
pidity with whiqh it was concluded, that
the spirit which so abruptly broke off the
preceding negociation no longer prefMes
: over our diplomatic system. It was certain
-1 ly fortunate and Ikilful, thus t<9 leave Eng
- land, to herfelf, and cut off the last branches
: of f!:e coalition. (JJEclair.)
According to Perlet, the treaty consists
; of 8 articles, which Ripulate for the excln
- fion of all of all privateers and their prizes
) from the ports of Portugal ; for a cession
; of a part of the Portuguese teriafory in A
. 'merica to the French ; for a commercial
intercourse between thf two con otries, high
-5 ly advantageous to the republic j and a pri
» vate article, it is said, for the payment of 10'
- or 12 millions of livres to Francei Nothing
; official appears in the prints on the fubjeft, '
f though the treaty has been read in the coun
cil of five hundred.
The French journalists argu.t. from the
- rapid manner in which this treaity has been
- concluded, a speedy issue to ihe negocia
s tions at Lisle and Udine. Wii are not. fur
-0 nifhed, through their channel, tvith anv in
n formation"from either place, which can lead
to a conjecture on the iubjedt.
1 ADDITIONAL SKETCH•
In addition to the preceding information
the last English paper, states, that an alliane
of considerable importance wa I forming b'-
tween the northern powers •df Europe;
that the fuhlime Porte, since the revolnti<r.
of Venice, had sent away the French aril
cry and horse, which he has for some tin:
y had in his service. That an Snfiirredlin
is had taken place at Rom£, and the Poje
m been deposed from his fovreignty ; tfcat ii- •
m miral Jaw's had not his station;
:g but that a mutiny had broken out ti ite
Spasifh fleet at Cadiz ; that La Fnyette,
and his fellow-fufferers, had been ceftainly
released, and were returning to Fraitie bv
ry the way of Bohemia ; that the negocitions
il- between Austria and France, were at aftand
ic 'as the French wished to difpofc of Mntua
es othe.wife than was agreed upon in th pre
rd liminaries.
Tn NEW YORK, O(Sober 6.
~ BRITISH RECRUITS.
L .We hold documents which warraf; the
aflertioh, that there are several public hitijh
Renrfetvoufis in this city, for recruit!* of
e men to put on board the Thetis and P;vf>y
ir~ aNt, now off Governor's Island ; thafeve-
ral officers with tempting guineas, ge-rally
V" attend, and that upwards of fifty havjbeea
" ' already put on board !*! !
le " These circumflances are noted, tte o-cv~
, ernment may not remain .ignorant of tbeaifts»
p without intruding a remark at
' n . the lawfulnefs of such proceedings 00 lutrql
ground. (Argi.)
iiid By Nafiau (N. P.) accounts of .flguft
18 to Sept. 8, we learn, that the Lily,
:he and the Sally, Hays, both of Nevr-ork,
ces are carried in there prizes. That the lleo
ve- patra,-Tat? ; Becca, Morris ; and thAc
>ut tive, Wilcox, American vessels, also ttifol.
ly, Pendleton, of Charleston, after tting
lif- out the contraband articles, were fcleitd ;
nt, that part of the cargo of the ship Men r y,
om which belonged to Thomas Trfmneund
John Prince, was condemned, as I hey ere
doing business in Spain while
their.enemy,
om The fliip Vidtory, Fanning, irf s*o iy»
'ho from Bourdeaux, is reported, fcflow ;"hc
,are was blown off on Wednesday in the fqil],after (he. got her pilot on board. Also b.:-
low fcbr. Fanny Allen, capt.Alen, and fcha
ner —, both from Ftederickfburg ; and
ship. Elizabeth from Charleston.
Captain Michael Morrifon, of the- (hip
General Nicholas, of Grenada, who we
mentioned in our paper of yesterday, under
the Savannah head, to have left the (hip
when (he foundered, together with Mr.
Morris, supercargo, other whitps and^ three
negroes, in the yawl, arrived fafe at St
Augustine about 3 weeks ago.
The official details from the London Ga
zette, published in this day's Advertiser,
throw more light upon the tranfa&ions in
the Weft-Indies than any heretofore laid
before tlje public. ,
From the LONDON GAZETTE.
Tuesday, Aug. 15.
Parliament-street, Aug. 14, 1797.
Dispatches, of which the following are
copies, have been this day received by the
right hon. Henry Dundas, one of his ma
jelly's principal fecretarjes of state, from
the lieut. general Siracoe, commanding his
majesty's troops in the island of St. Do
mingo.
Port-au-Prince, June 20, 1797.
Sir,
I do myfelf the honor of inclosing bri
gadier general Chtirchili's report of the at
tack made of the enemy on the Grand
Ar.fe, and the repulfc they met with in that
quavler. <
The brigadier general acknowledges, in
the ilrongeft manner, the important services
which captain Ricketts, of the Magicienue,
with the fqnidron under his pommand, ef
fected in the definition of the ve«ffels of
the enemy in Carcaffe Bay.
I have the fionor to &e, &c.
(Signed) J. G. SIMCOE.
Jercmie, April 30, 1797.
Sir,
The republican general Riga-id, thinking
the moment favourable to made a second at
tempt on Irois, collected his very bed troops
to the amount of 1200 men : On the night
of the 20th of April, at twelve o'clock,
they attempted to dorm the fort, ia which
■was oftly at' the time five and twenty of the
17thjnfantry, with their officers, command
ed by lieutenant Talbot, of the 82d regi
ment, and about twenty colonial artillery
men commanded by captain Brueil. The
attack was one of the mod formidable and
determined I ever heard of; they returned
to the charge three several times with such
increased vigor, that many of them were
killed in the fort ; but, to the immortal
honor oft its brave defenders, they were re
pulsed with equal courage and intrepidity,
■whieh gave time to colonel Dagrefs, with
350 men of prince Edward's Black Chas
seurs to gain the fort from the bourg below,
from whence indeed they were obliged to
cut their way. This reinforcement saved
the place; for it would have been impossi
ble for the English and Cannoneers to have
withstood much longer the persevering and
reiterated attacks of the molt daring and
desperate enemy, which never ceased until
morning, when they retired (leaving the
fort furrouuded with their dead) to a higher
ground, where they made a (land in »spite
of a sortie that was immediately made with
some advantage. Here they continued till
the 22d instant, when thev made an incur
sion into the interior of <flir cordon, took
and burnt the Bourg Dauce Marie, and
made an attack upon the Fort of L'lllet,
from whence they were driven with great
lass. In the mean time they were making
every difpofitioa for a regular (lege of Irois,
when fortunately the Magicienne frigate at
tacked their small fleet in the Bay des Car
casses, funk three of their barges, and took
two schooners, all loaded with ennnon and
military (tores for the siege. The Itfs of
their various attacks is generally estimated
at 1000 men ; it cannot be less than 800 ;
before .Irois alotie were found upwards of
20® bodies, among which were many whites
and mulattoes. Our loss was trifling indeed,
confidingonly ef three privates killed ; but
I have to lament lieut. Talbot, of the 82d
regiment, an officer of the most extraor
dinary bravery and good conduct; and lieut.
Cclville, of the Black Chasseurs, the only
persons wounded, and since dead. My most
pleasing Sir, is to bear testimony of
the courage, alacrity and spirit with which
all the troops distinguished themselves in the
various combats, particularly Monsieur de
Brueil, commanding the artillery, whom I
beg leave to recommend to your favor and
protection.
I have the honor to be, &c.
(Signed) GEO. CHURCHILL,
Brig. Gen.
Port-au-Prince,, June 20.
Sir,
I do myfelf the honor of informing you,
that on various considerations of great mili
tary importance, I determined to re-possess
myfelf of the post of Mirebalais : in confe-
I collected the forces, and calling
brigadier general Churchill from the Grand
Aufe, gave him the command with directi
ons to execute a plan that colonel La Pointe,
from whom I have -experienced the most
friendly and aCkive affiltancc had ably di
gested.
The brigadier general's letter, which I
beg permission to inclose, will inform you of
the success of this expedition ; but I have
to regret, that from some delay of the co
lumns they did not move with that exaCli
tude and concert I had hoped, by which
circumftanoe a considerable objeCt of the ex
pedition failed of success ; for it was my
intention to accord the prote&ion of his ma
jesty's arms, inthebeft manner possible, to
the inhabitants of these diftriCt*> by directing
the troops in their different routes, to march
with a fecrefy and rapidity that might insure
on all fides the furprifal of the enemy, com
pel them to a hasty retreat, and, driving
them before them, might prevent their hav
ing an opportunity of burning the plantati
ons, as had recently happened at Jeremie,
-or from carrying off the negroes and pro
perty beyond the Ariiboniti, at ths time so
swollen by the rainy season as to render any
passage over it difficult and precarious. But
I have reason to believe, from the report of
col. Depeftre, who commands in that quar
ter, that many of the negroes will escape
and return to their plantations ; many were
left upon them ; aud I learn with pleasure
that the enemy had not the time or means to
remove the coffee from the plantations in the
Grand Bois, which is daily coming into'
Port-au-Prince.
• As the troops were on their march to
their destined cantonments in the Arcahay
Mountains to proteCt St. Marc from an at
tack preparing against it at Gonaives, I re
ceived "information of the army, assembled
unde. the command of gen. Churchill by
forced marches proceeding to its afftftance ;
and as the re-taking of Mirebalais was unex
pected by the enemy, it had not only a ten
dency to disconcert their birt, as
I had forefeen, give me an opportunity of
fending a considerable detachment by sea ,
from the plain of the Cul de Sac to the ftuy
mediate assistance of St. Marc's without
hazard. /
At the fame time colonel the Count-le
Rouvray, with a detachment of 300 men w as
detached to strike at the camp of the B i
gands in the mountains on the fide of L< o
gane. The energy and aCtivity of this o fi
cer overcame the difficulties of the fituatic n;
he effeChia!ly burned the camp and beat the
enemy from their several po(l6, kil'iug bet
ween 40 and jo ; and he returned to Gfe
nirr with the loss of two men killed and Te
ven wounded.
The enemy having attacked and earned
some of the out pods at St. Marc, began
the fiegt of that important place, but were
fortunately driven from before it with con
siderable loss. In the fuccefsful defence of
St. Marc, the undaunted and aCtive 1 courage
and military cond the Marquis deCo
cherell, have merited my fulled; approbation.
I have the honor to be, .
With the utmost respeCt, &c.
J. G. SIMCOE.
Mirclalais, June 2, 1797.
SIR,
I have the honor to inform you, that giv
ing previous orders to colonel Deffources to
proceed with his column, in the morning of
the 30th ult. to his destined post of La Selle,
where, to your excellency's in
struCtion, he was enabled to take post, I
moved forward with the centre column, len
der colonel Depeftre. We arrived, after
two very hot days march, at Port Mitchell,
not quite completed and occupied by about.
JO of the enemy, wljo retired on our ap
proach. Id the evenfng we discovered a co
lumn of troops descending the hill on our
left, where they encamped. A detachment
of cavalry was immediately sent to reconnoi
tre them they proved to be colonel Def
fource's column—This officer was unable,
from the badness of the roads, and the heavy
rains which we have had every evening to
proceed to the place of his destination ; he
therefore, in a very proper and soldier-like
,manner, marched and joined us, which in
some measure defeated your origiual plan of
cutting off the enemy's retreat by La Selle ;
but I cannot help deeming this junCtion
rather a fortunate circumltauce, as it enabled
us to drive the enemy from a very advanta
geous position they had taken the next day,
to dispute our passage, which, from their
superiority of numbers, (about 1200 men,
with three pieces of cannon) must in all pro
bability have cost us a number of valuable
lives to have carried; hut this additional
strength gave us an easy victory ; for no
sooner did they perceive a detachment of
infantry and cavalry, which I ferit to gain
the heights and turn their right flank, than
they immediately fled in the utmost confufi
ou, and jvith such precipitation, thi.t tho'
lieutenant colonel Carter, with the,detach
ment of the 18th and 2iff British
light dragoons, pursued them with that
alacrity and spirit whieh has ever diftingui(h- ;
id him, he could only come up with a very .
few. He succeeded, however, in driving
many into the river Artioonite, most of
whom peiifhed, and he had the good fortune j
to take t\yo of their guns, with their mules,
&c. &c. The third was most probably loft
in the river, the carriage being left behind.
We found the fort in the Bourg of Mireba
lais as perfeCt as it had ever been, and in no
manner destroyed.
We did not fee colonel Bazil and his co
lumn till near an hour after we were in pos
session of Mirebalais ; he was, however, at
the place appointed, ?nd, had the enemy
made any stand, would have fallen on the
rear, and have enabled us, no doubt, to have
given a better account of them.
Although the aCtion, from the rapid re
treat of the enemy, wa3 very (hort, yet, fir,
1 have the fatisfaCtion to inform you, time
enough was given to evince as much alacrity
and spirit to enter it, both in the officers and
men, as I ever remember to have witnessed.
I enclose a return of the artillery and am
munition found in the fort of Mirebalais ;
ajid I am happy to inform your excellency ]
that the re-possession of this important poll
and dillriCt was effeCted without loss, one
ferjeant and one private of the dragoons be
ing all our wounded.
I have the honor to be, &c.
Geo. Churchill, Brig. Gen
Return of ordnance and ordnance (lores
taken in the fort of Mirebalais, on the 2d
of June.
2 French eight-pounders, badly spiked,
since unfpiked and rendered serviceable.
2 fix-pounders, serviceable.
2 two-pounders, ditto.
A large proportion of (hot for the above
ordnance, of every description ; the ammuni
tion not ascertained, but it is dated to be
damaged.
Geo. Churchill, Brig. Gen.
LOST,
ON the Frankford road, a Camel's hair Shawl.
Any person who will return it to the Printer, fha,l
haVe areafonabfe reward. O-S. j —d3t
X?sc te.
PHIL J DELPHI A,
SATURDAY .EVENING, OCTOWR 7
- . -b
- B "■'—J-r- ■ ' ■=— ' - I '~ L ■*■■■
Total of burials for 24 h'ntrt, en.fag yj}e r
day at noon.
Grown Perform. Children.
Third Prefbytcriaii 2 o
St. Mary's Church 2 o
Friends' ' i 3 O
f'crm-ii) I.uiVi-rnn a o
German Rtfcrniid x «
l?i.p!i!!s O I
City Hcf|jital* 6 o
Kenflngton 1 o
. • —O'. • niiljilii
ii 1 16 rs iilgi/.-"}
* Ail from tl.r ciivasi fuburli. ■'
TJif nunii tf of buri.il' on the 6th of Oiftobct)
w " ftvtiity fix.
DIED, yefterdny afternoon, Dr. 3fngeu Do-
Aei., one .of (he Committee of Phyficiuns, appcint
, ed 1 y 'he Beard of Health, to a tfnd to the fiek
' in indigent circumflauces : A duty whufe labori
ous details he "trformed with the niofi adtive arnl
perftvering aiHduity, and inwhirh he n>et wlth-a
liu-cefs a (Inking eulogium 0.1 his
merit as a jirailiiiorer.
Horn to a liberal fortune, Dr. Dobel give con
fyicurus proof of that folidityand judgment whic'i
has tvi;r marked his character, by the propriety of
his c6nduci the difadvantagcru's eircum'ian
ces of beifg lift at the age of 15 the .uncontrouled
master ol his paternal inheritance
I ofii/fTed of an a6)ive and discriminating mind,
, aided by a cold and daring spirit of t<juerprize,
j where occafron demanded, the rapid advancement
1 he had so early made, gave fair earned of incr»af-;
ing progress in that Jci-T.ce, to which he had allied
hirri'clt, and of fntrDCve utility to society
I3ilt alas! frail and fickle are our brightest
anil while the ardor of youth
so.ring thoughts into diflant tme, m one Ihert
wrelt, the mod * ttering p't,fpr<3s are ofrer mus
ileOrojrtd, and puffed off, like a trtnfient flanj:.
This lad tribute of a constant friend is all that
r"main< toalleviat? hi« mournful sensibility at' the
lofsol one whnfi' exalted worth he long revered.
Alter all, there is added to his diftref-, tlvfs poig
nant regret, rhat he can pay rone orhcr' f'ran an
inarequate Irifcute tqjjie mtmory of a muqhiorcd
friend.
Dr Dobel has left an arjjaiite lady, to whom he
hid been but a few liiMrtftsmarried.
DeaYhs in Baltimore, during the 24 hours
ending Oft. 4, at —8".
Do. O&ober J, —6. * )
Cj" the two charity sermons,
Which were postponed last Sunday on ac
count of the weather, will be preached on
Sunday next; one in the morning at eleven
o'clock, by the Rev. Dr. Blair ; the other
in t"he afternoon at four o'clock, by the
Rev. Mr. Abercrombie.
Germantown, 6ih. Odober
At a meeting of a number of the citizens
of Philadelphia, held at the Union School
House in Germantown, on Saturday, the.
30th day of September 1797
It was agreed unanimously, to recom
mend the following gentlemen as suitable
characters to fill the offices which precede
their.refpe£Hve names : /
Member of the Senate of the slate of Penn
sylvania, for the dflr'id composed of the
city ana county of Philadelphia and county
of Dela ware :
Benjamin R. Morgan.
Members of the House of Rrprefentatives for the
City of Philadelphia.
George Latimer Robert Wain
Jacob Hiltzheimer • Lawrence Seckel
Joseph Ball Francis Gurney.
| Members of the SeleS Council of the City of
Philadelphia :
• Godfrey Haga Henry Pratt
James Read Francis Gurney.
Members of the Common Council of the City
of Philadelphia : '
Matthias Saddler Michael Keppele
James Todd Walter Franklin
Thomas Parker, Thomas Allibone
George Pennock James -S. Cox
EdwardPennirtgton,Henry Drink-r, Jun.
Kearny Wharton, Caspar W. Morris
j Joseph Hopkinfon Thomas P. Cope
J Thomas Grceves Levi Hollibcrfwovth
! o
Conrad Gerhard Lawrence Herbert
I Gideon H. Wells George Fox.
Published by*orderof the Meeting,
HENRY PRATT, Chairman.
JOHN HALLOWELL, Sec'ry
At a county meeting, held at'the
Lepher's Tavern in Germantown on Thurs
day the sth of Oilober 1797, it was unani
mously agreed to support the fallowing per
sons at the ensuing eleftion, to fill the offi
ces to which their names are affixed.
Senator.
Benjamin R. Morgan.
Jfcmbly.
Richard Tittermary Peter Miercken
Joseph Coppertlnvait Samuel Wheeler
Thomas Paul Thomas Forreft.
THOMAS DUNGAN, Chair.
Charles W-. Hare, Sec'ry.
f
Pbter Miercken presents his compli
ments to his fellow-citizens, and thanks
; them for the- mark of confidence in him by
| their nomination as a candidate for the ass
embly at the approaching ele&ion—But, as
his particular engagements would unavoida
bly prevent bis serving if choferi, he begs
leave to decline being placed oil the ticket.
Southwari, "Jth 03. 1797.
p- The buflr.efs of t%e€USTOM. HOUSE,
I 'will from tins day be tranficled at Cm Fsffit
; for fame time.
Sept. 30.
MEDICINE S.
OF every kind, nfccrflV.ry for the sick also, Sa
go, Barley, and OatAcj; for diet drink, will ht
j delivered gratis,, -during the prefcnt contagion, to
th«fe who are unable tc* pay for it, ?.t Hunter's
Laboratory, No. Ir4. Srmf.h Second Street.
MEDICINE S.
THE Pprr who ma'y find it inconvenient, from
distance, to mjike nfe of Mr Hunter's truly na'e
ritorious off«r, will be fiipplied with medicine*-
fa go, barley; oatmeal, ike. by ap u: the
fubfipriber's flcre, No. Marfeef flreet,
ROBERT 5, STAEyORK.
I CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,'
From 6th to 7th October, in the morniiig.
Admitted, since last report,
Sarah Robipfon—Pliimb-llrcet, between 2d
and 3d streets.
William Cofgrave—corner of 4th and Clief
hut-ftrett, layiug in the flreet.
Discharged tince last report :
Thomas Harkine—admitted Bth ultimo
Sarah Fergufon 28th
: j Died since last report:
1 * • 1 how lonfffick pre
when admitted . b , .^T
vioustpjdmilliou.
Christian Overftag jth inft. (21 L) 3 days
William Cofgrave 6th (5 m.) unknown
Sarah Rofi 4th 1 day
Elizabeth Morgan. sth 6'
Marg. ult. 28
Mirjr R,pfld 26th 4
Han: Campbell 23d. 1
Remaining last report 54
Admitted Juise 2
I •' ~
| 56
J Discharged 2
Died 7 9
Remain in Hospital. |^ valefcent^| 4 7
Four of whom are dangerom.
In erred since last report,
f From city and fuburbi < 4
Hofpjtal 7
Total 11
Stephen Girard.
(Signed) Caleb Lownes.
John Connelly.
Publiihed by order of the Board,
Wm. MONTGOMERY,
Chairman pro tem.
GAZETTE MARINE IAS%.
Pout cf PfutAnntfitTA.
Lift American vefTels condemned at Port
au Paix, from the 25th of August, to the
6th September.
Shr. Alciope, Philadelphia, Rice, for Go
naives, brought into Port au Paix, and con
demned.
Ship Goddess of Plenty, ditto. Churnfide,
for Gonaive3, brought into Port au Paix,
and condemned.
Brig Rambler, ditto. Calm, for St. Jago
de Cube, brought into Port au Paix, and
acquitted.
Schr. Lucy, Boston, Higgins, for-Lanfe
veau, cleared, but ordered to Cape Francois.
Sloop Venus, Baltimore, Bird, for Balti
more, from Aux Cayes to Baltimore, and
carried to St. Jago, condemned. 1
Schr. Alexandria, Miller,
from Kingston, not tried.
BrigTuley, Washington, N. C. Shept
fort, from St. Bartholomews, condemned.
Brig Harriet, Baltimore, Afhley, for Bal
timore, bound to a French port, taken by
the French, retaken by the English, and re
taken a second time by the French—con
demned.
Schr. , Boston, Young, for Aux~-
Cayes, brought into Port au Paix, con
demned.
Ship Penelope, Charleston, Flagg, St. Ja-_
go de Cube, brought into Port au Paix,
condemned.
- #
Ex trail from the log booh of the brig Alexan
der, Jimts IVhelan, maflcr at the Fort.
Sailed from the Havanna the 29th Sep
lembffr, in company with fchr. Peggy, of
Baltimore. Was boarded by the Mayflow
er privateer, out of New-Providence, in lat.
95, in the Gulph, on the 12th September,
aiid detained some time to examine the brig's
papers, difmifled and treated politely. The
captain of the privateer informed captain
\Vhelan that the Indoftan privateer of 15
guns was run ashore in the gulf of Bahamia
a:id totally loft;" crew and officers saved.
The sloop of war that chafed the -privateer,
was from Cape Francois, apd had on b'oard
Santhonax, who made his escape from the
Cape-. Santhonax arrived at the Havanna
the sth September, and saluted the ships
and town with 21 guns. It was repotted
he had brought with *im one million of
dollars. The cause of his retreat from the
Cape was not made public ; but it W3s
thought he made his escape from ToufTaint.
The snow Cleopatra, captain Christie,
picked up pan, or the whole of the Indof
tan's crew. The Cleopatra was from Cape
Francois bound to the Havanna. The May
flower had a schooner in tow belonging to
New-York, name unknown : she was from
St. Thomas's, bound to Havanna, and had
contraband goods on board. Capt. Whehn
spoke the Fell's Point, of Baltimore, three
days out. The 22d Sept.,in lat. 33, 40,
and long. 74. W. bound to the Havanna.
Left at Havanna the (hip Mary, Patten ;
ship Caroline, Stewart, of Philadelphia ;
the brig Two Sifters, captain Sherer, was
.brought in by a one gun privateer; cap
tain Mafofi, in a schooner belonging to Phi
ladelphia, was loading for Philadelphia.
Captain Hays, of Sally, of Phi-
arrived from Naw-Providence a
bout the 6th September.
Boston, September 30.
Ship Galen, Mackay, Londofc, '36 'days
from Lands End. Sailed in company with
the Minerva, Turner, for Boston, and Pa
cific, for Charleftown. Aug. 17, spoke
fliip Felicity, of Alexandria, from Bremen,
bound to St. Übes, out 17 daye, all well.
Aug. 27, was boarded by the French fri
gate, Galatea, 44 guns; the officer who
i came on board, after examining capt. Mac
kay's paoers and A obtaining ajw London,
prints, informed capt. Mackay he might
proceed on his voyage, wishing him a plea
sant one. Aug. 29, saw a privateer who
gave us chafe, and firrfd a gun as a figjial for
eur heaving too ; but instead of attending
to the figpal, niacle more fail, judging her
to be a French or Spanish privateer ; upon
vrhich (he hred eight guns, at us with (hot,
but fortunately doing us i;o damage, die
continued the chace, but was out-failed' by
the Gaicn. Sept. io, lat. 44, 20, N. spoke
ship Mary, of New-York, fjr.Bcurdeaux.
|ept. i Si lat. 44, 50, N. few the Fanny,
Of Gujucelter, at anchor, on the Banks.
riie Eliza, Ballet, for Boston, and the
iiliam Penn, for Philadelphia, were to
fail in two-or three days softer Cap. Mackay.
Brig Betfcy, Prince, Gottenburgh, 61
dayt. Left no American vefTels there. On
the 17th Sept. spoke fchr. Polly, Gurly,
from Hamburgh, for Marblehead, 36 days
out, all we! 1 ; ill lat. 42, long. 58 ; 20th
Sept. spoke brig Cyrus, Blake, for Liver
pool, 15 leagues E. of Gape Ann, all well.
Ship Eliza, Barnard, 122' days from Ba
tavia. Left at Batavia, Ihips Eliza, Hut
ching; Johq Jay, Hafwell, of BoftonJ
i iow John and Joseph, Clark, ps Baltimore,
lailed lor Manila, ship Perseverance, ,
of Salem ; spoke ,on his outward bound pas
sage, Jan. 15, (hip Canton, Coffin, from
St. Jago, for Ifie of France, 10 days out ;
Dec. 31, ship Polly, Del ano, bou»d to
uatayia, 27 day* out, had not arrived when
capt. B. failed. On his homeward bouud
palfage, July 10, Indian Chief, Skinner,
from Batavia, bound to.Hamburg, 48 davs
out ; Sept. 19, fchr. Lion, of York, bound
to Well-Indies ; lat. 37," N. long. 65, W.
spoke brig Hannah, jones, from Newbu
ryport bound to Guadaldupe. Sept. 2j r
spoke brig Mars, St6rer, from Boston, for
Isle of France, all well.
Same day, (hip Jefferfon, Hooper, Bour
deaux.
In lat. 44 long. 11, was chafed, and af
ter several (hot being fired, was boarded by
the English frigate La Eagle ; after an exa
mination of his papers, was permitted to
proceed. The next day was bro't to by a
French lugger, who ordered his i boat out,
and threatened to fink the (hip if he did
not comply ; he was then obliged to go on
board with his p-jptrs, which were ftricily
examined, 120 hvre« demanded for 5 lhot
fired, and then released. In lat. 42, lo'ig.
20, was boarded by the French
Irigate, citizen Papin, enmmandant of 7
(hips of war in company. He informed
he had taken several prizes, one of which
was an American /pip, belonging to VVifcal
fet, from Hare (Scotland) bound to Bos
ton and New-York, with English property
on board. A packet of letters he had ta-
the ship, he had forwarded 2 cljyat
before. He had spoken a Ihip Phila
delphia, bound to Lisbon, on board of which
was Mr. Shwth, our envoy, well. The
commandant treated capt. H. politely, and
permitted him to proceed. Sept. 2, in lat.
23. long. 38, was boarded by the ' 'ool
wich English man of war, capt. Dubree, in
company with the Bellona, convoying 120
fail of merchantmen from the windward l'f
lands to England ; was detained 12 hours,
treated very indifferently; threatened to be
fentto England, &c. but finally allowed to
proceed. To the W. of Grand Banks, fp. ke
brig Betsey, capt. Job Rice, from Europe
for Boston.
O(Sober 1. The brig Venus, of Kenne
beck, and fchr. Elcy, of do. are taken,
Carried into St. Domingo, and condemned.
A brig fame into the road yesterday ;
and several (hips, we understand, are in the
Bay ; the frefhnefs of the breeze from N.
W. mull have prevented them from making
up. •-
Lloyd's List—August 4—mi.
The Ceres (American,) Roath, fiom
New London to Liverpool, is t;k n and
carried into Rochelle.
Grave/end, Aug. -1. Arrived, Adra,
Prentice, Chailefton. 6th, Fly, Price,
Philadelphia; Ceres, Watson, Virginia ;
Hazard, Drummond, Georgetown ; Bth,
Mary, Allen, New- o>-k. Sailed, Aug.
1, capt. White for Philadelphia.
Deal, Aug. 7. Remain, Fair Virginia,
Roberts, for Virginia ; Nelly and Kitty,
Church, Baltimore.
Lelth, arrived, Friendship, Oats, WiC
caffet.'
Clyde, failed, Mary, Lion, Clvarlefton j
Joseph, Bain, Virginia ; Two Sifters, R'./-
binfon, Virginia.
Falmouth, Aug. 7. Sailed, Neutrality,
King, Philadelphia.
Plymouth, Aug., q. This afternoon ar
rived here the American (hip Fair Ameri
can, of NewjYork, tapt. Tridwell, from
London, bound for Philadelphia, laden with
sundries. Oij the 30th July last, Ihe was
boarded by L'Amitie cutter privateer, of
10 guns from Brest, who after haviirg plun
dered her of her stores, liberated her. v The
firft inft. flie wrs captured by a French ship
privateer, called the P<n, of 22 guns, and
recaptured by his Majesty's ship Anion, rf
44 guns, capt. Durham, the 6th following
—the Fiench took out of the Fair Ameri
can, fix passengers, and all the seamen that
belonged to her, and put an equal number
of Frenchmen on board in their stead. The
Anfon came in with the American, and it
now in Cawfand Bav.
Cork, arrived, Tarlton, Connor, Balti
more. Sailed, Alknomac, Wheelright,
Charleston.
Greenock, arrived, Mary, Jacobs-, Ha
lifax.
Hamiro, arrived, Eliza, King, Charles
ton ; , Mans ; and , Heymans,
do ; Mereury, Cutts, do ; Lydia, Cazneau,
Boftcn ; Philadelphia, Bliss, Philadelphia ;
Donna Cecilia, do. Harmony, Price, do ;
Indoftan, Lewis, do ; Teneriffe, Smith,
Mew-York ; s Solertia, Badendick, do ;
Hunter, Nye, Chpjlcftcn ; Success, Weed
ier, do.
Bremen, arrived Commerce, Clelahd, A
lexandria ; Margaretta,Coward, Baltimore;
Inclination, Koller, Philadelphia.
Amjlerdam, arrived Jane, Baltimore }
Harmony, Earl, Chailsfton.
RctttrJam, arrived Friendship, Smith,
Baltimore ; James and William, \Vonny
cof, Virginia.
HilvottJJuys, an ived Adrians, Dawfon,
Maryland.
Peterjhurg, arrived, Favorite, Lattder,
Saltm.
Elfino'-e, July 20, arrived, Financier,
Clark, B6fton ; Friends) Hill, New-Hs
ven ; Coixclia, Warren, Providence.I mported in the ship Man ciiester ,
Benjamin Sheumli., Master,
From Boijrcieaux, and f"or sale 'ov the fubferiberj ■
fro. u Walnut Stieet.
Boprdcluk Brandy
Trifh market ckret 111 cases Entitled to
Me Joe wine, in do. Drawback,
k auterne, do. do. t
Thomas Murgatreyd. '
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine m pipes and quarter caflcs
Rota do. do.
Pimento mi. bags
«j.coo bufhefs Liverpool fait.
Aug. 2\. , tatScstf.
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder, at the (loule of Mr.
William Evans, the lign of the Indian
in the city of Baltimore, on the 25th
day of OiSlober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
About seven tlioufand acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
l-rng between Reifter'«-town and Weilminfter,
commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road runs through a confidsnble part of
these lands) the traiTl begiiu about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
of said Reiftcr's-town, and extends to the dil
♦aiice of about twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and lias on tbe main falls ol Patapfico
fiver, from thiyc to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in traiiU of one hundred and fifty to -
three hundred acre, 'l'hefe is'a large propor
tion of meadow and -wood land on each traiJl,
some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine gr.-fs.
ALSO
A traft of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of r
B!aden(hurg, efttemed very pocd for Grass, v
Richard Pfcnforiby, of Bladenfburgh, will (hew '
this land to any'perfon inclined to purchase. i <
ALfC,
A traft of land of about three hun-, 1
dred and thirty awes, within about two miles <
and a half o the President's house in the Fede- J
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high prefpefl, fron, which may be fcen the
rfity of Wafhingtcn, Bladentburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-tow?, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Por.fon
by, of Bladenfburg, vfill also (hew this land. ]
A liberal credit will be given for the greatest
part of the purchase money. Jhe terms will
be made known on the day of sale. t
May 8 >
L 1 ——
J u(t R cceived, J
From Batavia (via Providence) (
a £fw Boxtsof Sj' .cs, cooiiiling of <
Nutmegs, Clovcsand Mace '1
For sale by 1
KILLINGS & FRJKCIS,
Pcnn- Arc«t.
nay 30 dtf 1
Low Book Store, ,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS, ;
BBVNG busied for fom« time past in prepara
tions for removing into his present house, has
been midcr sh«necel\ityof pollponingumii thisday,
informing the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro' |
the Uaitcd Statqs, that his spring importation of |
law books is now arranged and ready tor on
t&rmsthat he tjnifls will entitleliim to the like pre
fretnee he has experienced for teveral years pad.
Catalogues, combining the mod varied collec
tion ever imported iflto this country, are printed
and v ill lie delivered on application.
June t7- a»w 6w
City CommiJJioners Office^
June 11, 1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the ffle#
and common councils, palled the aid day of
May last, appointing the city cfrromiffioners,
and prescribing their duties, feilion qth,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diftrifb,
each to be under the foperintendance of one of
the city commUTioners, « hois to be individually
relponfible for the cleaulinefi of the sam», and
are as follow.
Driftri£l No. I. From the south fide of Ce
dar-street, to the north,fide of Spruce-street, un
de rtht fuprrißtendence of Nathan Boys.
1. Fi*om the north fide of Spruce-street, to
the north fide of Walnut-ftreet,under the fuper
itTtecdence of Hugh Roberts.
3. from the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide ofWigh-ftreet, under the superintendence ot
joseph Claypoole.
4. From tre north fide of High-flreet, to the
north fide of Mulberry ftrtet, under the super
intendence of William Moulder.
5. 'From the north fide of Mulberry-ftrtet to
the north fide of Vine-street, under the super-
Hitendence of Nicholas Hicks.
Yhe cleaningof High-flreet to he in common.
£s' A stated meeting of the city comraiflionl
ers Is held at the Old Court in High
flreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock
' July t4. e o^m
Stands for Draymen, EsV.
In purjuanct of an Ordinance from tbe Select and
Common Councils,tearing date the lid day of
April, 1797, providing for the appointme.it of
City Commfflonen, tbe lsth.
r-pHE following places are fixed upon by the
X said City CommifTioners for Stands for
Draymen and their Horse?.
In Vine-flreet, e'aftward of Front-street, on
both fides.
Saflafras, High,Chefnnt and Walnut-lttreets,
eift ward of Front-flreet, on the no/th,fide only.
MSlberry-flreet, south fide from Front to
Third-street.
I'ront-flreet, east fide from Vine-street to
Elfrith's alley. _ ,
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horle al
ky to Hamilton's ftorer, east fide.
Water-fli'eet, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Moori-'s stores to Pine-street.
' Penn-ftreet from Pine to Celar-ftreet, weft
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-ftrert.
Spruce, Pine and South flreo's, ealtofl'roat
street, luuth ('de. t
Dock-street, between Walnut-ftrcct and the
Bjjg ftdrie crossings, east fide, opposite George
°'second-ftree"t, between Safofrai and Vine
weft fide-
Fifth-ftreet, «aft fide from Chcfnut to Mul
"no''dray or horse to Hand within ten feet of
an VrSs for hackney coaches.
Pine-street, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
" lMfth-ftriet, between Chefnut and Walnut
noitb fide, between Third and
Fourth ftreeu.
July 14-
A Literary Treat.
jujt pulli/hed, handsomely prirUd an writing
paper, price i dollar,
A new edition of that popular and entertaining a
work, entitled t
"~jHHE FORESTERS, an American Talc ; being 1
1. a f«. quel to the hillory of John Bull, the Clo- i
thier—ln aferies of letters to a friend, witli the ail- f
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political -
t rania&ions in America. • I I
The following from the Clavis t
thews the principal chara&ers that arc introduced: r
John Bull, the Kingdom of England 1
His Mother, the CI" urch of i nland y
His Wife, the Parliament r
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland t
His Brother Patrick, Ireland v
Lewis, the Kingdom of France f
HjsMiftrefs, th<t Old Cnnftitution
His new Wife, the National Representation
Lord Strut., the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the Trench Republic
The Foresters, the United States of America 5
Robert Lumber. New-Hampihire t«
John Codline, MaiTachufctts n
Humphrey Pfowfhare, Conne&icut , . N
Roger Carrier, Rhode I Hand S
Peter Bull Frog, New-York t<
Julius Cajfar, t Ncw-Jcrfey
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
• CaiTimar, Delaware
Walter PipewAoJ, Virginia
His Grandson, Gebrge Wa'flungtoa
Peter Pitch, Nerth Carolina
Charles Indigo, South Carolina
George Trusty, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Verirtont
Hunter Longknifc, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slave*
Rat 3, Speculators
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins (
£5" This popular and entertainingfatiricalhifto
ry of Amorica is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel
knap. It has a great 'fliarc of originality and a
bonnds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and chwa&erifes those
late political tranfa£ions which caufed so
much uneafinefsin America.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
South Second Street, and No. 50, Marke* ftjeet.
June a 6. §
LAW BOOKS, .
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South <Seeond, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the htc arrivals Irom
London and Dublin, their fpriiig importa
tion, confiding of a variety of the lat.it and most
approved law Boots, which, added to those alrea- f
dy on hand, forms the most extensive colle<3ion ev-
er offered for sale in this country. They thei efore
beg leave to notia:, that from the nature of their
connc&iers in Dublin, they are enabled to fell Irilh
editions they have hitherto at the very j
Mowed prices. The following are among the latelt
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 2 vela. t
Peake's Cases at Nill Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwicku ; Floyer's Procters
Pradlicc in the Ecclefiatiical Courts; Barton's
Treatise on a Suit in. Equity ; Tidd's Pra<fti<e of
the gourt of King's Bench in Personal A&ions, »
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, U vols. London edi- (
tion.
H. and P. Rice expe<sk t» rective by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Duriiford and East's Reports, the ad part of Gil- 1
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, anda number of j
new publications.
J\mc 26. I
The History of. Pennsylvania, '
Bv ROBERT PROUD, 1
IS now in the press, and will lie publiflieil,
with.all convenient expedition, by ZtCHA- |
riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet, ,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue v
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,,
according to the printed proptfals, until the
work is ready for the lubfcribera.
July 18. sawtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Chefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly affort:d, very low on
ihort credit.
March 6. 1-5
•.■■— 1 ■ ■ ■
Richard and James Potter
removed their Counting Houfc to No.
45, South Fifth-ftncet.
August %. w&f6t
LancaQer, Harrijburgh Carli/le,
'Shtppenjburg and Sur\bury
STAGES.
THE public are requifted to take notice, thr.t
the partnership which has for sometime fub
filled betwesn Mathias Slough of Lancaftar, and
William Geer, is now dissolved : b*t, not as M.
Slough infinaatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
jeift from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 39th
December lalY. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necelTary. Any gentleman who willies to be
mors, circumstantially ijifarmcd of the metits of
. this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal of M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfectly juftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the profceution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
1 'Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleafrd to confer on the tirft effort in
, this bufmefs, Vf illiam Geer, in conjuhflicn with
. Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
1 to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
j lie can pofiibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, liorfes, and every appurtenance to
render the passage sale and commodious, inform
f those wno wilh to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
1 George Weed's, the sign of the White Hi.rfe,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to l.ancafter, Harrilburg,
Carlisle and Shippcnfburg. The fare as hitherto
1 eftablilhed.
For the further accommodation ot the public,
e aStage will start every Wednefda7 from the houfc
e of Samuel Elder, m Harrifburg; arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
e and return lro>h thence and arrive at Harnfbiirp
eveiy Saturday, so tkat paffengcrs destined for
1- Lancaftcr or Philadelphia, may proceed o« Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
I.aocsftcr, Jan. 27, 1797-
f N. J3. TMs Line of Stages llart9 from th?
houf« of William Ferroe, in Lancaftcr, ofi every
TueMay and Saturday morning at ft o'clock, pro
ri ceeding to the westward; and Irom the houfc of
mt. Samuel Eidet in i-iarrifburg every Wedncf
t day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick JCochran's ia Shippenfturg, and returns
■] from thence on every Thurfriay : performing the
fame routine daily as ill its K>ur frem Philadel
phia. .
T O J3 E S O L D,
Andpojfejjion given immediately, /
ALAKGE two ftory,brick Houle.bandforacly
f.tunted in l'rinceton. There are four rooms
and a large entry on each floor, ;uid five rooms in
the a range of back buildings 51 feet 111
length, and a piazza of's7 M' rh « c is a I" im p t
in the yard, an excellent kitchen garden, at the
farther end 0!' which are a carriage hflufe and two
stables, one of -.vhich is new, 44 feet leng, with
Calls in the two stables for 17 hcri'es. The, heal
thiness and pleafantr.efs ot its lituation, and the I
number of genteel and agreeable families'in and
nSar the town, reader it a desirable retrceat for a
gentleman from the city. Vhe cflmmodioufnefs of
the house, its central position, and the of (
the(lables,makeit'cvcr; w;,yfuitablcforatavcrn.for
which it has always been confiderd as a capital ,
fta.ld. Inquire on the premises, of '
ISAAC SNOWDEN. J
PrlticWnn, A.ng. 25. '9 —diwja-wrf 1
N O T i C E. j
IF Thedy O'Hara, who feme years fincekept ,
School at the' Nine Bridget Queen's County,EEa- t
tern Shore, Maryland, be living, he is hereby re-
minded to call on, or write jo, the Rev. Ambrose c
Marfhai, near Warwick, Cecil County, Eastern N
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will receive in- ,
information. (
Au?u(l 4. __ mw&f4W
City of Walhingcon.
S C HEME (
Of the Lattery, No. 11, t
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A m '.gmScentdivelling-houfe 20,000 dollars, '
& calh 30,000, ire 50,000
I ditto 15,000. & ca'k 25,000 4o,oo»
I ditto 15,00b & caili 15,000 30,000 ,
1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 »0,000 ,
x ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 jo,ooo ,
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000 ,
I caflrprize of ro.ooo 1
1 do. 5,000 e»ch, are • 10,00 c
- - 10,00 c i
»o'do. 500 - - 10,000 i
00 do. 100 - - 10,000 1
300 d<i. 50' • - 10,000 1
400 do. 15 - - 10,000 1
1,000 do. »o - 20,000
10,00®' do. ic - »5«,ooo
Prizes.
33,461 Blanks.
5c,0c0 Tickets, at Eight JDollari, 40o,ooi»
N. B. Tof3vour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the la ST drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but onc :
And approved notes, securing payment in either ;
mon.-y or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received foi any number aot less than 30 tick
et*.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen et„
chc private buildings to be creeled in the City of
Washington—Two beautiful designs are already
lelefled for the entire f ront-s on two of the public
squares; from these drawing' it ispropofed toereel
two centre and f our cotßer buildings as soon aspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and.to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate aduentursrs, in
the manner described in the fcljcme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will
be made to defray theneceflary expenses of print- j
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National University, to
be ercded wjthin the city of Washington.
The roai fecnritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prices, are held by the President and two Diredl
ors cf the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
mote than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEI. BLODGET.
Tieljetsmay he had at the Bank ol Col»m
---bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter
Gilman, Bollon : of Johs Hspkins, Richmond ;
'and of Riehatd W#U», Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
From tbe Otfego Herald.
CAUTION.
WHEREAS a combination of men ill this
county have undertaken to enrich thum
felves.by fabricating titles to sundry valuable trails
of land, the properly of gentlemen living in New
York, Philadelphia, London and Paris, for which
tra&s of lsnd large sums of money have been paid
to those fraudulent men, fc'J innocent purchasers
It is therefore full tli't public information should
ba given, to the end, that t>c injured may feck re
dr*fs while the nen have property , and are to be
found. Those who have be«n difcovtred arc Tru
man Harrifon, Joseph Witsomb, said now. to re
side in the county of Saratoga ; ThomSs Kelly ar.d
fevcral others who go under fiwlitious names. His
supposed that the lands offered fcr sale 011 those fa
bricated titles, are at lead worth fifty thcufand
dollars. Such as we haveaifual knowledge of are
as folfbws : Lots No. II and 12, Otfego patent,
tkoufand acres each, the aflual property of William
Dellw)n, now of London'; lot*j No. 58 and 64,
fame pstent, thcufand acres each, the property of
Mr. Chaumont, now of Paris, and James Averill
and others, ot this State. There is some grounds
to suppose that the lands of Uichard Welisand
Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their
management —The Printers will do well to give
this a place in their papers, as well to caution the
public against purchasing those lands, as also to de
prive those men in future from mipofing on indivi
duafs, which their education and address have en
abled them to do heretofore. W1 tcuni',> has Been
a (hopkeeper of some note in this sountry.
The following affidavits will fct in a clear point
of view tht"wick«dnefs of those men, which when
' the public hive perused, will induce them to ex
cuffl the interference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July 18th, 17»7-
1 J'homas Kelly, of the County of Otfego, hav
: ing been lcdr.ito an error, by John Witcemb and
1 Truman Harrifon, of the fame County, to sign a
> deed to them, for lot No. 58, O-.fcgo patent, which
I was the property of William T. branklin now Mr.
Chamont's and others ; snd furElie^ - the said.Joseph
and Truman did persuade me to do this againlt my
inclinati'on, whjch was made out on the icth day
3 of November, 1793, or f*t back two years so as
1 to bring it to that time ; and further the name of
1 Pardon' Stark# to that deed was a fictitious nam
c there being uo Cuch perlon there. To this I make
t voluntary oath. THOMAS KBLL\ .
>
1 On the 19th July, 1797, came perfoilally
-, me , Thomas Kelly, the fubfenher to the above af
-0 fidavit, and made solemn eath that it contains noth
ing but tb • truth.
ELIHU PHINNEY, Jufticc of the Peace,
e Oir the 13th July, 1797, came before me Jacob
- Kibby, a perfmi hy me \><.llliijown and worthy of
r i good effctfit, who on lit* folcpm o.lth did fay, that
? two of the parties abovementioned did make ap
r plication to him this deponent, some tirue in the
- winter of 1796, to make thema deed for two thou
sand acres of land in the Otego patent, and pro
mised this deponeht a fliarc ot the profits, On the
sale of said lands, for his l'o doing ; and that they
s made application si vn al times for the fiuiic puijpo e,
y which fervicss this deponent as often refuled, de
- daring to them that he had no right to lamls, and
f coulddo no luch thing ; which daring attempt on
- this deponent's integrity he had related anong his
. friends several times, previous to making this affi
s davit . JACOfI KIBBEY. •
e Sworn before me,
ELIHU PHINNEY> JuAicc cf the Peace.
Aug. 3. IIW4W.
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut Greets,
Price 3-Bths of a Dollar, £
Observations on certain Documents
Contained in-No. V and VI of
" The Hiilory 01 the United States for g
the year 1796/'
In which the cm arcr of speculation a^ainfl
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, j
Late 6£C&ETApr of the Tri asury, is FULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BY MIMSP. IF.
This publication prefenrs a ccnc;ie llatement
of the bafc means prailijcd by tin* Jacobins of the
United States to aiperfe the characters of those
persons who arc confukred a* hoftiie to their difor
gamzin# schemes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and .Mcffrs.
Monroe, Muhkn';urg:i and Vtnah'e, on the fub
of the documents alorelaiu, an«j a ferits of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Ha
milton, proving beyond the poilibiliry of a doubt,'
that the connexion between him and Reynolds, \
was the reiult of a daring eonfpiracy on the part
of the latter and hi> ailociates to extort money.
n A discount cf one third from the retail priee
will be made in favor ol wholcfaie purchaOr*, for
cash. Orders to be addrefled to Mr Young.
y-uvuft 2 .
No. 188.
D 'iflrift of Pennfyl'vatiia 9 to ivit : ,
s , jjE ll' RKMLMBERKD, that on the
JIJ tiwemy sixth day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Fenno, of ehc said dif
tri&,hatli depolitcd in. thisoflice the title of a book,
the right wjicreof l>e claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit :
u Observations on certain documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of " The Hi&ory of the Uni
t" e.d States for the year 1796," in which th* charge
" of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, late J
" Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted— j
" Written by himfeif "
In conformity to'he ail of thcCongrefs of the
Ucsted States, entitujed, " An a.5l for the encour
agement of learning, by fccuring the copies of
maps, charts and books to the author-* anc? propri
etors of such copies, during the times therein men*
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk »f tbe DijiriSl of Pennfylvama.
July 27. w 4\v
The Inhabitants of the Dillrift
of Southwark,
A RE informed that a Coachee is provided, to be
j. i- krpt at the ConfUblea' office, the north eall
enrner if Front mJ Almond streets, where the
friend# of those fict prrfons who desire to be re
moved to the City Hospital, are requeflcd to make
application—Also, a Hearse kept in readi
ness for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
N. B. — The Foor, who wifli to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may be fumiftied with orders
" ky applying as above. 2 9
William Blackburn,
LOTTERT AND BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 south Second- s reet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR
| SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the driwing advances, particularly on ac-
I count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thouland dollars each, on'the last day of
drawing.
Check Books kept forcxamination and register
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Washington, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets for sale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the courfc of the fummcr.
The business of a* Broker in all kinds of Slock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &c. tranfaded with the
utmost attention.
June 2 tu&f
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents] /
A Vic<w of the Caitfes and Ccnfequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May is §
~STATE TRIALS.
Sold b W. Young, Bookseller, N-o. J*, South Se
cond-ftreer,
The Pennfylvafiia State Trials,
CONtaming the impeachment, trial,and acquit
al of FrancisHopkififon, Judge of the Court ctf
Admiralty, and John N'icholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large B\e. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Youno has for sale, a general affortmentof
Book". AJfo, Stationary, retail and by the pack
ege, well aflojted.and entitled to the drawback if
axpiN-ted. July ? —*
For Sale,
That tvell known place, called VsiNnnami j's
f F R R Y,
ON Nelhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on ihe New York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perche*. Upon the
premises arc a large two (tory ifone houie occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story flotte kit
chen, a large frame (table with 4 good threlhing
1 floor, and l'ome out buildings—also a well of
' good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a most elegant fituatlon fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nelham
iny to its junction wiih the Delawa»e, and thence
across to the Jersey (hore. h has the privilege
Jof half flic toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Snhfcribtr,
; MORDECAI LEWIS.
, Vpv 3t>wtf.
r COLUMBIA HOUSE
f Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBBIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpeif, returns her sincere-ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years refidcnce in
C Philadelphia ; and allures her friends ami the
" public, so far from intending to decline her
' I'chool, Ihe his made a i'upenor arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars. —Every branch' of nferul and pelitd
3 educatian is particularly attended to by :»Trs.
1 Groombridge and mallsrs excelling in their
' refpedlive profi'ffions.
Corner of Spi ocp and Eleventh Streets.
June ?th, 1797-
j The situation is perfe^K-hcaltUy ; and made
more agreeable by an <;xtenfive garden lot
j of gmund adjoining ths house.
JuJl Publifhcd, ,
1 And to be had of fileffrs. QoWgn, Campbell,Rice,
, * Gary, and the other pricipal Bookfellerj in t*ifi
s city,price one dollar, twinty-five cents,in boards,
- New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH B.\RTON, m. n.
June 10. * < ' t
Rofs C5 3 Simfoa,
IIAVE FOR SALE—
r HogCheads,
Excellent Coffee in j Tierces, and
C Barrels.
A lmall parcel of nice cocoa in hags
* few puncheon*; Jamaica fpirite, fourth proof
Superior Teneriflee wine, old and in Madeira pipes
An invoice of jewellery and hosiery to be fold by
the pickle
A few hampers el bedEn s lifh cheese.
>'r 27. dtf.
The. Subfcriker has for Sale,
A large assortment of India Muslins,
c.oarfe and fine
India Calicoes
Sooty Romalls
B'ue Cloths and Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irifti Linens and Sheetings, well
aflortrd
A box of Diapers
I Silt Umbrellas ,
i Iwo boxes of fine Spices, cotaininc; Nutme<*«
Mace and.Cloves
Black Pepper of firft quality
East India Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantitv of Madeira Wine
Ditto of Oin
Roll Brimstone
Mordccai, Lewis. '
durrj/R T 7,. , ."vawim
Biggins' Specific
FOR THB
PREVENTION AND CURE OF THE
YELLQIV FEVER.
Ij 1 VF.R Cnce thisdifeafe made such ravages in this
j-city and Nev/-York, the author has turned his
j attention to itscaufea anil cure—The result of his
j enquiries has convinced him that the reason why so
I few persons recover from its attacks, an- from it*
j not being well understood, and the consequent
I wrong method faken to cure it. He is persuaded
that the excefliye bleedigns and mercnrrel reatment
of the Faculty is highly injurious, and that the on
ly ra'ionalmode of treatment i»by theufe of proper
j aeid». Coivincei of this he oiTer« his Sficlft as a
certain remedy, if nfed according to the dirc&ions.
To be had in bottles, at one dollar each, of the
inventor Geo. Higfi/ij, Cherry street, two doors a
bove Ninth street, (late manager of fackfon nnd
Co's Medicine Warehotife, London): by J. Lc
hlanc, No. 1• 6 ; IV. Griffith. No. 177, T. Ptairct, No.
Jl,.4nerh Third street, Nn. 5 r,New flreet,
near Vine street, and J. Gaits, No. 36, Race (Ireet.
Aug. ij. tuths 3t
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just r«ceived, by Wm. Griffiths,No.l?7,South
Second-street, 3 frefti supply of
Genuine Bal/am of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hill
(who knowledge as aßotanift procured liini
the appellation of the Linnaeus of Britain) and is
«onfiilered in England as a ctrtam cure for the above
complaints; it is also of Angular efficacy in Ae
Hooping Cough,
It may also be had retajl of W. A. Stokis,No.
61, South Second-street, and T. STirr, 55, New
ftr«t,..in bottles at 75 cents each. '
Wm. ORirriTHShaving obfervedthc happy et
fefl of the medicine, (feverol cases of cures hav
ing cqme within his own knowledge) and the great
demand for it has induced him to order a large
supply, a part of which he has just received.
Auvujt 3. iaw3vv
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on Satu*day last, two indented Ser
vants, Gilford Dally, a mulatto boy, about 17
years of age, a llim light built active fellow, caa
read and wrife,five feet ftven or *ight inches high,
has a heavy countenance; had on a fuftiaji costte
andtrowftrs, a high crowned hat, fine :Tt>ts&c.
Allan Hellons, a black man, /about 24' years of
age, five feet feveti rr eight inches high, a thick set
. clu:ufy built f«ll«w, particularly about the breechj
hacfon a fai or's blue jackft lined with ftvan&|ny
dark striped vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
hat, coarse (hoes, &c.; each of them had: feveraj
fiiirtsand several other cloathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or dol
lars for each, and reasonable charges, oh delivering;
them at No. 54, North Third-street.
Th« black fellow is about a year from Lewis
T6wn, in the County of SufTcx", state of Dela
ware, and hastaken the boy with him.
July 31. mtu&f3w
To be SOLD or RENTED,
A LARGE 3 Story Briok Hotlfe, on the
South fide of Filbert street, between
' Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
veyor General's Office.
' The Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet deep,
1 the lot 110 feet deep, with the privilege of a nine
[ feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
j to turn in. The House is not wlaflered, and
may be turned either into one, or two dwelling
■ Houses. It is (uitahle for a large Manufjiilory,
or would make a good Tavern. Invnediatfc
s pofleflion will be given.
A|>ply to No. 111, Chefnut-Streef.
Aug. ii. cod4t.
1 Muftcal lnjlrument Manufactory,
No. 167, Arch-Strret.
. TJ"ARPER,h3rpfichord,grand, portable grand,
, Ll. fid'.-board, pier table and fquaje piano tone
f makirfrom London, returns thanks to his friends
, and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hepes that by hisafficiuicy and attention to ev
ery branch of his buCnefs, to merit a cortinuanco
of their uvers. Piano fortes made on the newest
and moll approved plans, with pedals, patent,
1 fwcll, and French harp (top,'which he flatten
himfell" will ue found on trial by unprejudiced,
judges, to be equal if not superior to any imports
ed, <i»d twenty per cent cheaper. Any inftr*
_ nv,nt purchaied of him, if not approved of in
twelve months, he will exchajige.
N. B. All kinds of Mnfic.il lrftruments made %
• uned, and repa red with the greatest accvracy^
- ditpalch, and on the moil realcnable terms,
- ready money only.
t Second lund I'iano Fortes taken in exchange,
n May v■ . &lm.
r Forty Dollars Reward.
r T) AN away from the fubferiber 011 the fee'
r .{V ond day of this init. July, a Mulatto
t named Will Bowzer, about forty years of age,
'>• five feet l'even or eight inches high, rather
ir chunky made ; had on when he went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, striped purple trowfete
and jacket, it is probable he will change his
cloathes, as he took a .number with him. The
said felftfw formerly belonged to Mr. Charles
>t Blake of this place ; and it is expeiled he has
mad« towards Jones's Neck, in the Delaware
* State. —Any person apprehending the (aid fel
low, and feenring him so that I can get him a-
e ' gain, shall receive the above reward if .taken
"* crutof tbe county, and Twenty Dollars if in
s ' the county, and all reasonable charges if bro't
e homa.
JESSE REED,
Qjiset) Ana's Cownty, Mat-yland,
July 3.