sstksZttZ of tjje akb Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NrjMSER 1594.J
SALES BY AUCTION.
' Stated Sides
Far ') Lit G1 0 DS.
( l?ox » No - J 6 >
■« & C0.N0.55
t J, - '' licftt.
r'Forenoon—j. '.in Connelly, Old Cifv
)Lju_J A uilion, No. i\fout'h Front-flreet.
J ) Afternoon—William No.
C. 183 High-street.
\ No. 74
' J I , foutij 1 hird-ftrcet.
Tburfhy \ Forenoon Edward Fox.
( Afternoon—John Connelly.
Fr' '/iv \ Forcnqoni—Wiltxim^lHmiuoP.
" - ) Afternoon—John Connelly. c
Saturday Afternoon —I'eter Benfbh.
For CHARTER, *
On moderate terms v to any port in Europe,
Tnz SIV EDI SH SNOW
fe^^^ Gl)ftafAclol P hz »
Captniw Rampe»
Carrica aiiout zcoo bartels of flour. For terms
Peter Blight.
"Who intends Landing a quantity Jamaic a Rum
anuSucar, recei*e<i by snip Amitv, capt. Cook,
Irwin Jamaica,
Otl. 12. dim
For Freight or Charter,
TUE GOOD KRfG
S -U. k E Y,
Vredwiburg, Mailer ;
NO V lying at Clifford's wharf, and in compleat
crd-'r to recc'we » carjo. For terms please to ap*
ply the Captain an board, or
1 J°h" Slyrin,
No. 81, Arch-ftrc«t.
V/HO WAS FOR JS.IL£,
2000 wt.of doubk ref\nedSaltpetre
•6c© wf. of F F Gun Powder
30D barrels of Herring*
50 buftcls of Timothy ?eed
i/ocafe«of Claret, fir l quality
Anda<j*antity of Sherry Wine,
pt. 29. dtf
HAVANNA SUGARS.
FOR SALE,
1400 boxes and calks prime white Havun
na SUGARS,,
On board (hip Hamburgh Packet, Silu
Swain, Mailer, now lying at Marcus Hook.
For terms, apply to Capt. Swain, on board, to
Capt. Samuel Smith, in Front, near Wal
nut fircet, or to
Philip NiclUn, llf C«.
r\s"~3h*. offer the said Ship
vfc;-' -m Hamburgh Packet
For SALE or CHARTER.
She is sons regitler, coppered to the benda,
fail» r<tmarkabjy fjfti and nan be reidy tp re
rcive a cargo in a few days.
Sect ar. daw
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing from on board the
Brig William Williams,. Matter,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale fey
JelfU Htdlingf worth & Co.
Wilmington, Sept.ar. fltf
N. B. The above Brig,
the brig GAYOSO, are
f'■ a ''° 'S 3 '* or Cliarter, and
. now ready to r-jccive a cargo
on board, st Wilmington. A)iply ,i« above.
Fir HAMBURG it,
r
i-j■fS. i FA V 0111 T ii, John
Thompson, Master, now at
Bright', wharf, and will be rea
if to take in on Monday next,
and ready to |to on board. Tlk ship is so well
known, that it is nefdlefs to describe her. She
is now in compleat order. For Freight or Paf
fcge, plea/e to jpplv at Mr. Jeremiah Warder's
Compting House. No. ta, North Third flreet,
or to the Mailer on bord.
August jo.
For SALE,
On board the said Ship, Swedilh Iron, aflorted
Hollow and Window Glass, Demvjohns, Wrap
ping Paper fur Sugar Refiners, Hugs of I & a
Quality. Please to apply as above.
wfScm4w
FOR SALE,
BRETAC.NP.S In cases
German Cf ecksin do.
Cambiick
Plat tillas
OJ.nabrii(s
Gold and silver Watches
Window Glass IQ by 8
Glass Tumblersin cases
Li;ifeed Oil in cr.iks, &c. &c.
George P-ennock,
High-Strest.
J»ly S- 3 aw
/In elegant Hou/> in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and e{e?"int house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and one dining room—the largest is 31 feet by
-36—and two are so connected folding doors
as to make but one. Allot live bed rooms, be
sides 5 ill the garret, well finilhed for servants.
There are flables an(l a coich house, with evry
■convenience for a family. Enquire \t No. 19,
in North Seventh street, or at No. 218, Arch
Street.
Aug. 1.?. zaw3w.
Chocolate and Miiftard
Manufactured as tiTual,
Ginger and pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
yiiiladelphia Porter, fleer, Ale and Cyder.
London Porter <
'Taunton and Button Ale
Ked Port and other Wines, elthe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-caiTt or gallon—Suitable
'for e.\poi"t:itiDn cr home consumption
For Sale by
John Ha worth.
NcfcyX faulh rroat street.'
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, GCTOSER 18, 1707.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
Vlf not before disposed of at private sale)
Friday, the fir It of December next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, ac the Merchant* Cof
fee Haufe, in Philadelphia Forty Thoufo|<l Nine
Hundred and Thirty Nine acres of LAND*
now or late in the Couivy of Wa{h:ng»on, and Com
monwealth of and n the v/eiers of
F'cfa and Wheeling Creek* anj Ten Mile Run.—
These Lands are ferti'c and wcil timbered, and were
pateoteed early in 1.737, exrem 3700 acres or therea
bout, which were patented 'in 1792, Ore fourth
ni ihe purchase money to be paid at Jibe ti:r.e of
for <Uemfidue a credit of one,, two and'thrce rnoaths,
will be given, on interest and.good security.
O&ober 6. fliwtS
Tq be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before difpafad of at private fede)
Friday, the firit day of December, at fix
o'clock in the evening at the chants' Co fie*
House, in PhH&dclphia, Twenty Six Thousand Se
van Hundred ai.d Eighty acres of LAND, in the
State of New-York, between the northern bounds
of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehanna, now, or late,
in the tonrnlniDS of tyan)den and Warren, ans coun
ty cf Montgomery One fourth of the purchase
rqouey >s 10 be paid at the time of sale ; for the le
(idafe a credit of one, two, and three months w;U be
given, on interefl and good feturity.
o£ko£le 6 gawtS
■ THE SUBSCRI3£p^
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREBNLEAF,
HEREBY give nn.tiqe, that they have d»U*>fe(l
of the p*operty afllgned to theruror the fftciirflig
the payment of the note , acceptances, ii)»1 en
dorsement > given by Edward l*ox, for the use
ofthef*id James Greenlcsf*; and the holders of
such notes, acceptances, and eudorliemeats, aje
hereby inptifyed that the l"ubfcrib#» will fettle
with tbe.m for the amount of their refpejflive
ela-itns, both trikCJPAL and interest,, at
any time before the 2rth day of OiSVober next ;
after which dav, the holder* not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of align
ment-
Applications to be mad; at south-east corner
of Dock, and Second ftreetv (the Dock-street
fide), between the boars of ejeven and one y'
clock every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tho. W. Franc'u,
John Jun.
John AJiley,
Jacob Baler.
Philadelphia, August |B,' 1797. d_
VVindow Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the Citv
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From Bbv 6 to 19 by 14,
By the (ingle Box or Quantify, may be had at the
(lore of the Subscribers, corner of Arch and Front
ftMtr
'Jamis C. & Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, June 9, 1797. blwmwftf
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt. Rhodes, from
Oporto,
Red Part Wipe (n pip«*>, hlnls.and quarter eafcj
sip ewt. C"rk. so( sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
Ju'y It. §
Will be Landed,
From onboard the (hip A<Sive, Caj-t.CLAiß,frcni ;
Hanibuigh,
jo bales white Ruflia tieaii Hemp
1 caflt? Clover Seed
Por Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth flreet, No. 34.
Tune 26. <5
Young Hyfon'Tea.
40 cheda of > superior quality—Alio,
ico do.of H*fru,
Impartqd in the oodrop Simj, znd for sale hf
the fubferiber, corner of Second »nd Tine
street.
C. Haight.
June 11. cots
Cedar Shingles.
THE fubferiher ha' a quantity of 3 feet Cedar
Shingles nf « superior quality, fee sale jit 13
dollars p,»r thousand.
William Hallo well,
No. 193 North Third-Jlreet.
July ij, eotit
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front'ftreet,
Hyson
Hyson Skin (,™ A o
Young Hyson T 1 E/V3 -
Imperial _)
April 20. eotf
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Amflerdam and.Hamburg, and for sale by
B. bf J. Bohl^n,
A large ajfortment of fine French Cambrics,
Platillas Rufliund Dutch sailcloth
Brittannias , Writing, p«t, and print-
Rouanes ing paper
Brown Holland Du'ch calf lkins
Checks and flripes Prime madder
Ticklenburgs Shell'd Bafley
Oznaburws Looking glafles
White sheetings Hollow g!afc ware
Diaper Slates
Brown roUs Coffee mills
Umbrellas Brass kettles %
Hair ribbons Scythes and ftrsw knives
Black and whltelaces Toys aflbrted in boxes
Best Holland Gti\ in pipes
London partiaular Madeira Wine
July 24. m&thtf
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto dim Claret in cases
Just received, and for Sale by
Rundle & Leech.
1 i ■ zawtf
Mrs. GRAT i' A N "
INFORMB her friends,and the public in general,
that h:r house, No. 11, Market-llrect, r.'ill con
tinue open during the fleknefs.
Ecard and Lodging in a separate room, ten
dollars, in a double room, eight dollars.
For the co:lv>.niesce of thofs ge:iflenrun who
have not thoir tamilies in tof,'n, Mrs. Bhattan
wij receive jeatlscieri to dine at jj*tr a doLi,ak
at'ay. A:## 29.—St
By John Fen no, N 0- ii p Cbejnut Street.
Choice St. Croix Suear and Rum
Cof/ce -
Madeira and 'lVn°riffe Wine
i for I'a e by
James Tard,
Ne.'—,Soush Ftiti ti .Srvet.
Ofl. fj. d^v
c ctsxp * &fat
Philadelphia, aid, 1797.
THE Mc chants wlmat this'tiwe prefer hav
ing thtir velteli an ! Merchar.dizj; entered and
cU-»red at Cheflcr or Marcus here
by notified, That in compliance with their de
sire, and upon a full corMflon thit the measure
will be rnuiually bencficir.l to then and to the
Unjtcd States. The collefloi of the cuHorr.shas
made arrang-emeiits to eftabliPj for Pfme tinae
branches of the at thofV places,
where every accommodation in his power,will
be givetMo the merchants. diw
TO BE SOLD,
And immediate pojfejjion g iliex,
A Convenient well fiolfhed Brick Tenement,,
with a cook honfc and other out houfer.fitu
atcd in a pleafaDt part of the boi'ough of Wilming.
ton, i;i the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
ha? forty; feet, front on Weft-Street, and extends
through the to Paitur -street, on which js
a stable and carriaee honfq. /
■ ALLEN M'LANE.
Wiln\ini;ton, Aug. 36.
Lately Published,
In nie vol. Bvo (price one q°l' ar i" hoards) fold
by V.'ILLIAM yoONO, cornerbf Second and
Ch<".fnut flreets,
A- Collection ps Papers on ri;e fubjedt of
Biliittus Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years past.
Campryd fy NO AH trXBSTMS, jtm.
I iiitaiai. -; Inters (ror.i Dod ti£>S«.-uran, Sn-iith,
Bu«l, l'aylox, R-.mfw, Mo for, Reynolds, Mitch
eil.on contagion, Btc. &e.
•~ v nr. T r. 5t
City CamvjiJJiorxers OJpcc,
August 29, 1797.
IN pursuance ofan Ordinance of the Seled and
Cvnm\on foqticiis, pail'ed'the aid day of May lad.
I'ropofal-, in writipg will be reteived hy the City
Commiffioncrs for otic month from the lit of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on ieafes for oue
year to commence the firft day of January next, the
following public property of the city—
The wharf and landing on Vine Street,
Al/o on Sapafjraj,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefhut and Wainut Streets, Draw Bridge, with
th» Scale and Fis» fcjoufes, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-W*U.
The Tav.rn at the middle ferry otj schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (exeept so much
thereof as (hall be occupied by any buildings erect
ed for the use of the Collector of the Tolls, or be .
j neceflary for the toll-gates.)
I Ang. 3 3tawlm.
to S T,
ON the Paffyunk Rqad, between thf Plue Ball
and the city, a Fowling Piece, with a brass
birr el and
the letters " Jamaica, Q_ 99". —and on the barrel
near the lock " I.Ondon" andtheTower (lamp.
Whoever -vtll return the -id piece to Bennard,
at thefigp of t;he P'uo Pit! on
or the office ps {hall receive a reward
of Four French Crowns,
' fr'P*- la - *3'
DUT'Ton carriages.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an ail of Cctijo-tfj of the
United States of Ar.ieri?a, paiTea at Phila
delphia, the aßth day of May, 1796 ; Inyittg du
ti«s on Carriages, for the conveyance of pnrfum,
which Iba'.l be kept by or for nuy pcrfon, tor hji
or her own use, nrt<>let on' to birr, c.r for the
conveyance ps pa(Tergers, the several dutio* and
rates fallowirj;, to wit:
For and upon cviry Coach, 15 dols.
upon every CI hriot, 11 dols.
upon ev,ery Poll Chiriot, 12 dols.
upon every Post Chaise, 11 dob.
upon every Phaeton, with or withput top,
9 d.ols.
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon oth«r Carriages, tiaving panpelyvork
above, with blinds,Jjlafl'es or cprtains,
9 dols.
upon fsiur wheeled Carriages, having fra
med polls and topi with steel fpriiigs, 6
dols. ,
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
enyir iron fprinjfsor jacks, 3 dols.
, ypmi Curricles *»itb tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaifcs with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel topcarriages, 3dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with Heel or
iron springs, 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 2 dols.
upon every four wheeled having
framed pods and tops, and reP.ing
' ,on wooden spars, 1 tlols.
The Colledlors of the Revenue for the firtt Sur
vey ps .Diftriit of Pennfyivania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September u-xt, for
the purpose of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
Germamown; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,F.lq.
in the County of Montgom«ry ; and ac the hcufe
of James Chappian.Efq. in the County of Bucks ;
of which all perfonspoflefled nf such Carriages are
desired to take notice.
{Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors, thatlictnces will be grant
ed to them ; etie licence for carrying on the fcufi
nefs of retailing of Wines, in a Ids quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying 00 the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than 10 gallons, at
the fstfnc t.m; and at the fame places, by the offic
crsdegaJly authorised te grant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
>♦ Infpeilor of 'the Revenue ps the firft sur
vey of (Ire DillriA of Pcnjifylvaqia.
Office of Infpeflion at
Germantow, nth Sept. 179-7. i
TTvT p o R T £ D
In the (hip America, James Evvir.g, ma fieri from
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands
White Piatillas
TicklenbMrgs
Coarse JLinens
Tapes .
Looking G'afles 7 • r *.
Qlafs Tumblers ) ,n cafe '
ton SALE UY
George Pennock.
Aagujl 14. ja,w
PlAladelplia, 08. 13.
THE subscribers inform their frr.n is :tnd cuSo
nurs :n town£!/d co f j*trv, thru their (lores-are rdw
open in the city, and others are oai'y. opening, aa'd.
that from -Xe pr'.fciU appearance of the
disorder have rcitTon to hope, their friends mny
(Ho«ly cojuc to the* city with perfecl (zii ty. By
feve*al h:~. arrivals, Humbert hare received frrrlii
faptffo* of GOOi)
Robert Smith & Co. P IV. GMiuJpt Co.
John Davis ilf Co. Sjtgreaves U ,
' Ccorgr Dob fen 1
ftltihergtr osil liyXjfii)
- Alex RiljlandAiul Co, T. #. HarJanLerg.
Jacob Speryy and Co. John Smith ,< id Co•
Oven &, "Jena. 'Juries, f how as Or r,
Keppefe iff Zantzit*£/r, li'illiam Barker Co.
Adam Znntz'ngcr> Thomas Arm of C$ Soji.
John Fries, 'J. Miller > juti. fi.r.d Co.
Otft 14 r •
Boilon Glais Manufactory.
r T"'HJ| citizens of thcJ United S r aCcs sre hereby
A informal, that the m:u:ut.i *lure of Wiodpw
P'afs'ia cow commenced at the Glass I louL' in Sol
tor.
It is needless to fny any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boston Glass, as it i§ so well hnovvn
throughout the United States to be ,in entry refpJit
greatly fuptrior to any ever importcA from Europe.
k It will be cut to any f:zc commonly ufcit ;s nd
may be constantly had by applying to Charles F.
Kupfkr, at the Glass House. *
Orders from the distant States to be aidfCiTed to
Mr, Samuel Gore, Ceurt-Ureet, Boftor,.
Boston, Sejst 30, 1797 O.4 —aawSw
AfeJJrs. Timothy cn / Svffljbn y Charlejiori • ]\>uj[rs.
Horlvi and Bby'a. 7, f/uffrx, jV. C :>le£rs. tViHett
and 0* Connor, Narfib ; JWr. Ellis Prrte, Alexandria ;
j\£c/frt. Tit'tdt and'Rroiu/Lf Raltijncvc ; M.r. Hopiir.s\
New-Tor/: ; and Hudfjti & Qbedudn, lifrt- .
ford: Air. S^tftaur t §Lpveinnab ; are recUcf.td tj ii.fert
tot aoo+f o»ce a i\\\L 6 fveils. Tie to ie for
tcarkd In tie Ed:tor.
Mr. L AILSON; "
\yiTH an intention to render fcirvice, and unde
ceive those Pertarmers, who Jufivghis abferice Mr,
Jaymonfcl lias thought proper to engage, thinks' ir
would be wrong in him not to inform those {hat
are engagccT, that itiswithou his approbation, ahd
that he will not be in any way answerable for Mr. 1
Jaymond's engagements.
PHILIPPE LAILSON.
Alexandria, Sept. 15, 1797. 6t.
At a Meeting of the Board of
Property, June 6, 1797,
Prefant John Hall, S?a\ry.
Francis Johnfton, R. G. > oflandofiice
Dan. Brodhead, S. G.J
Nicholas Bettinger, ") *
Versus [
Samuel Cunningham, j
In this cafe the proof of feryic? of notice be
ing inefficient, It isordered that notice be giv.
en in one of the Philadelphia and York newipa
pers weekly, for at lealt eight weeks to the
heirs or afligneea of Samuel Cunningham de
ceased, to atttend the board on the firft Monday
in November next, to shew caul'e why 4 patent
Sjould pot iflue to Nicholai Bettingei for the
laud in question.
(A true Copv.)
JOHN HALL,
Secretary of the Land Office f
Aug. if. *iawßw.
J'rom
THE CARGO
Of (lie Swedilh barque Gufiavus frtim
coi lifting of the follov/ing atlicles,
is difchjrgitig at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
fate by the fuhlci ibers
RUANDY, well fiavored, of a, 3 & 4th proof
Clarft, in hogijieads
Djtto, in
Frontigpiac in cases of 30 bottles
Olive Oil, of.i fapcrior quality, in baskets of ft
and it bottles
Capu's
Olives
Almonds
Orv Verfiifrrcife
Vvri'jn" Paper
U/nl,;rellas Jof 28, 30 D|id jnclias
Tafietit's
Long and /hort white Kid Gloves for Women
Siik Stpcki: ™s
Handkerchief's, in imitation of Madrafs
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Ostrich Feathers
Ribbor.s
Perfumery
Sceiitc.d Hair-Powder and Pomatum
Ma'nna in foris
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANDREWS.
.September 2;. cots
At the Federal Blast Furnace,
In Carve)—-for .Slitth;g, Platting, and Rolling
, M t J.LS
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THISIR superiority conjijls in being free from
boles and Ixfiey-eombed . 'aees, <wviejj are cbntr
monli found in roller.! cajl in sand, or clay
moulds, fh-ft patent rollers are cnfl in iron
moulds, previotflj heated, and tuill be found to
be more denj'e, jolid hnd durable than any rollers
heretofore used. Jnother important ttdviift'q&i
they, ihai't over others, is, that the neacs require
no turning, but are imxnedaitety fit for t fe, and
from their accuracy, run <with less friSion, aad
require less luater to make them perform their
riork. 1 hey may be had by application to the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Gcod
win, cr of,Meffrs. Thatcher and Hay ward
RoJ)o», Slug. 31. Sefjt. 19 §fit.
This Day is-Publif]»ed,
BY MefT. Dobfon, Circy, Campbell, Ric t and the
other Bookfellcrs,
Price One Dollar and twcnl\-fiveeents.
Eleganty printed on IVovr foptr, and Hot
prejfed,
By John 'i'hoinpfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Gonftitutions
Of the several States with each other, and --sth
that of the United States: c&iibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of each Con ft. if uti or, and
cliHing together tluir in oft impertaut provisions,
under the several heads of
Notes and Obfervatioas.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South Carotins,
L L. D. and member of the of the
United States.
Dedicated to tha People oi the United State*.
N. B- A fe\T Copies on an inferior pa?
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar. /
FebruavT 6 nvvvf
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North fifth street, corner of North alley, No. 34,
HAS TOR SALE,
red fcouHeaux Wine h caf-sani
boxes, fit; years eld
1 White Graves# Wine in e»(!u
TicKk'hOßTffS
Ruin a sail Cloths
_SUyw:s Duck
Eto£ tertifD ■■ .
Ktfiians
Diaper and Table OcA
Kmuty lap*
CeWßio* Merman Cloth
' 11 sfiortnifnt <»f black coloured Ribbaw
fine. German l.'aces
About twelve tons Ruffi-a clean Hemp
Clcvuii .Seed . ,
Italian Soap, n fir.all boxe«, for family uffi
\V :r.-fGiafs at> —?aw
1 HIS WAV WAS I'UtJLHFiVD, ■"
And for file by 7JZ9MJIS DOBSO.V, at th«
brone iiouTe, No. 41, south Secon3 flreet,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPfiNEO.
Confißm# of a variety cf Milcelhiv'ous Pieces for
the ir.ftruflion and araiufcmci-t of VCHJNOk
SON 3—SitV o Lames audio™ el y printed &ud hound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
rhe variety in 1 t xrellcfrice of theft pircrs trq
fifcJi, that the book needs only io he known to he
univerCilly ellcvnvd one of the moil valuable pub
lications th t can he put into, the hdnc's of young
•person*.
" taft to rear the tender thought,
To ??£ch the young jd?a how t<V fiibot.
To pour tfce frefh inilrudlion p'er the
To breathe rh' enlivening to fix
The generous purpose in thc^bwaig
4 A-HOM£ON.
Augi;\ a 4. Bi\vf4 w
"" Tiil; 0 V »S. PUBLISHED, '
Bj THOMAS I)QSSOK, at the btoue Horde,
No. 41, south Second Hrcet,
Letters and Cooveffations,
Between several Ycutg Ladiee f oji improving and in^.
tereUmg fubjeSs.
Trar.Hated from tke Dutch of Madame de CamUn
With alterations and improvements^
Printed #n fine paper, and neatly bound.
Price one dollar.
AJV4IDST the tide of modern Romances, painfing
tales ®f extraordinary distress, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies uo
be ignorant of, this little book ctmes forward to (il
licit notice, \vhere. in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, becaufs
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Fe.-r.sle
charaßer is exhibited in an interesting point cf view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publifber was forauch pleafedwith the pern
fal, that he was pcrfuaded be (hould do a pleating
service to tke community by fending it in o circu
latiop. August 1,4- —mw4%v
To Maflers and Pilots bringing up Vejftlt
from Foreign Ports to this City.
YT7"Hereas sundry infringements have lately been
VV made on the laws of this Hate for the pre.
venting pestilential or infe&icus dlfeafes, either
from ignorance or inattentioa thereto, it is tho'c
expedient sit this time to publifii the following ex
t.i.cU from the laws of aid April, 1794, 7th a»d
Bth fe&ions. r
H^ALTHToFFrCE.
Jur.j 6th, 1794.
SxtraS of an aflfor ficuring tU city and post
of Philadelphia from the introiuclion of pests.
lenftal and contagiow difafes.
Sect. 7. And be it further enabled, that every
m:\Xter or captain of any (hip or veflel coming from
sea (vef-.-ls aftually employed jj the coalting trade
exceptpdj snd bound to nr.-/ port or place within
the jurifdiilion cf Peaufylvania.fiiaU taufe his fj>ip
or vejfel to be brought to anchor,or otlierwife fiay
e I in (be dream of'the river Delaware, oppofits to
Ihe Health-Office on Stata-Ifland aforeiaid, and
there to revr ain until he fball have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of heal h from the Refidcnt Phy
sician. And if, prcvieufly to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any matter or captain (ball
fuffer his ship or veifel to Approach nearer than the
faiiS Health Office to the city of Philadelphia, or'
flialllapd, cause orfuffcr to be landed, or brought
on flldre, at any place or port within this Com- ;
raonwealth, or at apy other port cr place, with the
ihterit ol being corrveyed into this Commonwealth,
any' perfen-or pe/fnns, or ary goods, wares or mer
chandise, or, if after receiving-such bill of health
o." certificatt, he (hall neglecl or refufe to deliver
the fam' le the Health-Olficer, such matter or cap
tain (hall forfeit acia p-.y, foe eaji and every (nth
olfeflce, thS'fumof Flvfc hundred dohais.
Ami the captain or matter of every (hip or vcf
fel (ball fend a and commodious boat to brinj;
the physician and fnall iii like manne>
conv. y him back to the Hsalth-Offite, aftei 1 he has
concluded his official examination ; And while he
it making such examira'ion, or in cafe any fnbfe
quent examination by the Heal li Officer er Ccm
fwlting Physician, agreeably to the directions of
thi a«,' the niailcr or caprain (hall expo'e or <aule
to be txnoi'ed to thefeareh of the ReliJeut 1 liyfi
cian.or of the Health Officer and ConMt'ng Physi
cian (as the cafe may be) eecli and every par: 0! th«
lb if-- or vessel, rud (liall present to his view each
and every perl'on cr perfoi:s on board thereof, and
and (hall also true and fjtisfaSory anhvers make
ft> all such questions as the Refidcnt Physician, &.e.
at the time of eramination (hall aflc relative to the
heaiihbf any port or place fr«m which the (hip or
ve.'fel failed, or has fmce touched at—Jie number
of pcrfons onboard when the Clip or vessel entered
on her voyage—the number oi persons that hav»
fmce been lauded or taken 011 board, and when
and where refpedlively—what persons on board-*-
f they have bean during the voyage, or (ball, at
the time of examination, beinfoited with any pes
tilential or contagious diieafe—aiid what is the pre.
sent Teate and condition cf the persons 011 board
with rcljpcit to their health or diseases. And it
any mailer or captain fnali refufa to expose at aforc
.aid, to the search of any of the •bfticers aforcfaid,
n if he (hall conceal any Jul: petfan, or in cny otljer man*
[cr dative the proper Mcert aforefiU in lit an/wert,
uch captain or mafter.for every such ofl'ence, drali
forfeit and pay'the fuai of nit hunbrlb do»-
LAftS.
. se»t.B. /♦ .: if a.'jy verfen or persons wliatfy
ever (the I>elident Physician, &c. exceptedj
go ou board any vessel, before the mafler thereof
has received a eertilicate of -health i.i the manner
direfte'd, every pcrfou.fo off.rding, (hall pay the
um of ONE U'JStDUED DJLLaKS
IT being absolutely necelfary that the
feiSlions fiuiuld be .punctually complied with, the
fubferiber, m compliance wiih his duty, n>uil ex
a.'l a rigoroKs observance of the lame, or < lie be
under trhs nectffity cf putting the laws in force.
JVm. AI.LFN, ffeulti Officer if the
P* i/ t J kil^''-plfia.
July .ijvr
\VOLVMt XII.WINE.
at , wharf, TEME- ,t
piKPK VVIXS.-oC .xCeHcntquaKry. in uii iis anil
I-;i 1 r pin-, fur fa'e ! y "JAMES VARI). WbL
OA. it'. eoßt
~TrT'be"Ler,,at a moderate Rent, ,
i-pH'i prist'iim of a HOUSE, wit'in a
I ,hi>rt i'iftafi' eof the Coffee-h'.'ufe,.which has »tpg
h.rn or. u- iid 1' 1- the l*a But month", confiding Ivive
cf a fpo.l tlijiiss roam aud-paTlosr 'wpWroomi fay r
a a .IrxiTi - ro:im. two gure's, ki'cKen, worii j ul .; r ,
vau't ami c-Uar, all in excellent 01'.er, fit for-tjw , .
r^V^p'i.in of xfa'all fa nily. Noi;r rwetl
am-iy but 'h-'-'e who are refpeilable and
trqa'r • ar'the office of this Gazette. | the C
Olybrr nifh ;
N O T I C E. patle
A LT, pff.n- InVWWeH rwlhe eflat# of To - n with
J\_ Striker, late of Tinnecum Tevnfhiff,
Buck's County, sre rcquefted to pay rff their f
rtfpj flive tfebta and those havhi'g *ny J . e < ; n f ov
rtisiuls ag<inft laid eflate, are desired to bring in
tlicir arrfiunis, to :■
JOSEPH C'!.-iMJSEHLAIX, -2 ) Execu-
UAI.ILT P2£VALT, S tors. Ofh<
Sept. 18. q|iaw 4 _\f_ nera
The Medical Lectures' 0 £
I-. TV Ifnire'Ttty cf Pennfylvanla, ?re post-
V one<i until the iat Monday in November | ;
' 'oiaober it- _ _ • i of v
The Healtb-Office j vc ' c
!o I Ci'y-Hail, and i-Jrcptopen | •
2nd! dry wrier" hiving Win- f> may j
\Vm. Hcaitli-Ofiicer. inft.
P at "
" N O i' I c E. i
THE OJHc" of the Dep irtnunt of Wac.are for eigh
s the prtfent near to the Falls of the Scuyl- ill ;
till, on the Ridge Koad. er p;
flypferr.her 4. IL_ ]y in
MEDICINES. i
!- op rvirykird nectffiry for ihe sick also, 5a- , an t
po, Barley, and Oatmtl. for diet drink, ill kc I com
<lei vered gratis iurirg the pre fat contagion, to !
th-fc who ar- unahle to pay for it. at j amj
I.:.bora*or)', No. Jt4, Second Street.
M EDICIN ES. . thoi
't"HE Pner who may find it inconvenient, from conl
i'i*>arc ■, to make n'fe of Mr. Honrra's truly me- teIK
rituri<His off r, will be fuppfied with meiicine=— t y g
r.eo, barley, oatmeal. &c. by ap-lyinj at the
labfcrib-r's tfo. ;,6', Mr.rket (Ireet. 11
ROBHRT S STAFFORD. mpf
the Philadelphia, At/ion, and 1 ucierton f ] aVl
Mi/A 11. STAGE. dife
~1~1I H. > r T->*riclnri leg Uuvt to infirm the tt b'.ic, that
(i.'v eJlMficd a Stag! bctn ltn Pkih<k!/>bia,
A Jim. It t"«, Hnm/yttn, Sfrfhutll, "rJ Martha Fur'
v/rt, WaJi'g Rwr flUling mltl. Ik* turn Turl
i» A'/-.- *>.7' a , '" i » a " i To
W -.ill bm-fci, a nmfarUllt carries, ""d 9 'j"-
fjt Jrivtr, for the (Mvr:a*ce of Its mail, pajfrngcriiaml ,
TLr Sift wi'.l flart mry'Ti'i'/Jay, "I 1° ,
■ .HI., A. tVr./r.m Mr. Dxnitl Cmftr'l I'errrl and tile
hJ;e that "•;!>! «' 7"*' at Lmgaariing ; \flnd talll
i cm F'iJ.'y at 6 •'</«♦. P- At- ft— E- mel
V3Tl't, in\ ~e<f>ir, 11 t»c!erf*n, d\"a-t from tktcily S4 at (
»;/.•r, ! fro* th AlUuttit 6, and from 111 EaJ! Groftng .
1 m.'ts J -ulxrp are gt.-d - 'j
vtHer f, and -.ilcrt are cnmmciitiiii andfafe pajtgc boats
fr.T.i, '•■/ to c-IV.-J Mfaf's C«p'-William War ma;
■viMu'i boufs, on Tucker's IJland, adjoinining the At- t ; cl
Lmtie, b. r, are %r.od jceommoa.iliaiu, and a convenient
' fLc to Me ; tie rportf-tan wbo loijle, ti rcgJe bimfetf
trilb frvlhn amt~fling, may at this pUe be M
t fieJ. there Ling at .ilmofi every ftafm of the year foivt Call
and fit in abundance.—Tbe Stage on its return, Jlar's tim
from 'fc'afor'faid C. Evan's ii Ttscierfn, every thi:
,<!av, «/ A t'doch A. M breikfafis at John Bodines, at
IV.iJiw River Bridge, lodge that night at Lon^acoming^
a,. lai I oe.'o-b, P. M. oi iVtdnrfisy. arrive at the )
esfir.fi It Cher's Perry. It is framed thatroute of bet
en equal dtfante ni.il! be left expcnfnic, or furnijh tbe tra ful
ve'-ler «■ th a greater v iriely of tmiftrrcnt, as be toill co ,
n-t orly hro, a p Want fill to tbe alUnt c fr),m Tucler-
i-.n, but liav- the curnfiy of sonf on the road tvllber a
Member if capital furntcss aid forger, and o e flitting .
mitt, in comf'.e t ord-r, end at I; ge .tlemcn, too, nvbo tri(
are otvn-rs, or faclors, of ary of tbe aforrfiid iron -worts, the
fire filicited to encourage and 'fipport ibis jflage (by n b.tb Jjj 3
shey can be si -v t ll accommodated) the continuance of ,rbub o( |
■trill much d,fend on their aid. The ratrs of poj.ngers
and b-ogage are as filler, . For a pdffenger from t e ln '
aforrfaid Daniel Coofer's Ferry to Tuderton, deluding wt
14 11. of baggant, T-.VO Dolhrs ; fir it/ay pajengers ha
fcr mile. Four Cents—l 5° ">■ °f ' P"f all
fencer. P«/!agc of letter., uenvfpapers, SsV. -will be set
uvr*rabU to la-tv*
,V. B. Ibe mail coffeefr m tbe Old Ferry.
THOMAS iVARDLE Es" Co. ful
Tucler!on, Sept. I?. Ofi.s. —2*vtf th
I
The Norfolk Mail STAGE. gr
-"pHIS Sta S <Ttarts from the GEORGE Tavern, th
2. of the comet* of Second and Arcb Streets, in
Philadelphia, ry. iy Tulfday, TLurfday, an A Satur- a s
da~, at 1 t/'elack, in the irorning; arrives at Do- ,
vi*r the fir ft day, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and on ap
the morning of th- fourth day the pafTengcrs find m
a fafe aad comfortable packet to convey them to' w;
Norfolk. dt
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton fetry, ,
every Tuefdny, and Saturday, and the
Stage start» from this Terry for Philadelphia, every re
Mon Jay,' Wednesday and »i J .ay; put» up at Snow of
Hill th- firft night, at Dover the. ad night, and ar- J
tives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third m
C The diftanee on this rout^, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is lo miles less than on any stage route b<
between those places
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road, fc]
v.hich is most excellent indi»d. The proprietors
willingly engage to whole fare to any
palfenger, who, after having; performed this route, .
wjll fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
iiftanee, so good a road in America. ai
Anguft 11. . dim, eotf. c .
* r,. r It
Peale's Museum.
This valuable repofitcry of the works of Na
ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the underfkndmg, i»opened daily, a. j
ufiial It , (lands in an iiry and"healthy situation,
and free from the epidemic th-t at present afSiila
the city ;it may, therefore, be frequented with L
the greateS fifety.
As an Air.ufcment, the fludy of Nature is the
most rational and pleating 1 as a Science, the mod j
fubiime and infl'ru.live. It elevates the mind and
expands the heart. They j
«' iVbom Nature's nvtrls can charm, -frith God limf-f j O
" Hold mnrerfe." u
Many inrer.-flirg additions have lafty been. ; ] t
nade to thii Muf:um : and the fathered tribe, j j-.
eontairing a variety ff the most rare and >eauti'ul (
fub'ic&f, is now very advantaj-eoully arranged, j
W'akCH Figures,of Men large as life (some of them j a
cafis irom na.ure) are here cirtfTcd in their prep, r j e
iahits and placed : .n afjitudes eharailerifiic of the»r » c
rtf->eAive natloes. Here may be fecn tbe Korth- !j (
American Savage, and the Sav.ge of Pouth-Amer- ,
ea—a laboring Gbioefe, p. V I tne Chinnfc Gentle- j "
t :.e fouty Afiic-.11, and the ICamtfdiadaU— j t
with'fome Na'ives «l' the iou'h |flam.s. Tb- 3
Immenfc variety and inter;ilii'g diversity which t
fhis Museum offers lo the view, may befeeabut
arnno'bc described with fall
Price only of a dollar,' t_
law
Xf)e (gazette* " »
P H PL A D E L P H I A ,
WfiDttKSDAY EVENING, October. t«. r ;
I M IL..J, ' cf
Health Office,, OA. 9, 1797. n ;
*/ Resolved, That the confuting and vi- a ,
{itjng physicians be informed, that the Board
hive it in contemplation to publish on Mon
fay next, and on every Monday following, w
during .the present calamity, 3 Hate of the n
health of the Cityfand Liberties, including y,
; th? public Hospital: they therefore request c
■the cpufulting and visiting physicians to fur- c ,
nifh as particulnr a return as possible of the t;
patients under their care, who are affedted „
with the; prevailing fever." a
Health Office, OSt. 16, 1797. fc
The Board of Infpcftors having for the ],
information bf their fellow-citizens (by the
foregoing resolution of the 9th inft.) called {
on the physicians connected with the Health t
Office for a ftatc of the Hospital, and a ee
neral state of the sick under their care. The
following is the result. I a
Do&ors Duffield and Stevens, consult- r
j irig physicians, state, that there are now in v
j the Hospital Fifty-four patients, thirty -two ;
los whom are affected with the prevailing fe- c
j ver, and Twenty-two are convalefcSnts (
Doftois Church, Coxe and vifit- :
j ing physicians, state, that since the "gth' c
j inft. they have been called to Ninety-one j
I patients, Twenty-five of whomf have been c
, font to the hospital, four have died, twenty- ;
; eighx are convalescents, the remainder dill (
ill ;%ioll of those patients were in the low- ]
er part of the city and Southvvaik—five on- f
ly in the Northern Liberties. 1
The Infpedtors of the Health-office at t
an early period of the prevailing fever, re- ,
j commended to the indisposed, an immediate ]
i application for medical aid. The Infpeftors ,
lament that tliia' recommendation has not i
been generally attended to—the sick and (
those who have the care of them, should
consider that even one day's delay may be at- 1
tended with serious consequences From ,
this cause the mortality has probably been ■]
much increased in the city and liberties, but 1
moll certainly in the hospital, where many
have been admitted in the last stage of the ,
difeafp.
Publilhed by order of the Board,
Wm. Montgomery,
Chairman pro iem.
■ ' '
To the Printer of the Philadelphia Daily
Advertifrr.
Among the viftims of the calamity-os
the present year, the physicians who have
1 fallen appear to to to deserve a peculiar
memorial, as they have ventured their lives,
at the most imminent hazard, to assist their
fellpw citizens in time of great diftrcft.
To mention thefirft and the last of these,
may bring to the remembrance of their par
ticular friends the whote of the melancholy
\ lift ; and to those who were not of their
acquaintance, a revival of their names oc-
I cafionally, may be proper even in future
' times. Dr. Nicholas Way was the fir ft of
this class, who was fpeeaily carried of by
' the mortal disease. He was a man advanced
' beyond the middle stage of life, and has
f been mentioned in the paperaln a refpeft
ful manner as a valuable member of the
1 community. Dr. Plcafants (1 believe) was
the last of the vidtims above alluded to.
» He was a young man regretted by hi»
0 friends, as one of those who has left upon
their minds the most undoubted proofs of
b his zeal for the works of charity. The
' other young men were unknown to me, but
, they, and their survivors of the fame class,
? who were much exposed to dire contagion,
■' have undoubtedly deserved the sympathy of
r all, who, as well as tnyfelf, have been pre
'* ferved'from the mortal sickness.
Of one affecting instance of fach expo
furc I was an unexpected witness A,bout
the time of the interment of Dr. Do'bel,
I was accidentally near the church burying
ground, and 3 carriage waiting near
11, the gate : the men with the chair-wheels
in were returning from the grave, and soon
r " after two young men, who I suppose were
jJ doctors, came towards the carriage ; they
, n appeared in a difpolition fuityd to the
id mournful oceafion ; their youthful friend
t0 was jult deposited in the earth, which no
doubt to them was a solemn scene, and
the? more so on account of their own appa
r 1 rent danger: they had (hewn the last kind
w office to their cotemporary ; and although
,r * Ido not certainly know who the young
rJ men were, I have some reason to believe
,; 1 that Dr. Pleafants might be one of those
itc benevolent tttendantp.
If this memorandum should be accepta
ble to the Printer, it is offered as a general
>rs memorial of the renewed awful period of
t J 1 797» when the nearcft relatives, like those
ne in 1793, feparated from each other,
and could not admfhifter in the extremeft
cases a final consolation, or even (hew their
love by the rites of a decent burial.
Philadel. Odt. 16th, 1797.
fa-
n<V SINGULAR CUSTOMS,
a * In the island or Metelin, the an
cient Lesbos.
jth EExtractedfrom a paper of the Earl of Char
lemont, in the Jrijh Philosophical Society for
:h .. e 17890* , ....
j The most remarkable thing in this island,
1' is a cuflom by which the women have here
openly usurped those rights of sovereignty
which in other countries are supposed to be
'tn long effcntially to the men. " Contrary,"
,| fays his lord(hip, "to the usage of all other
J countries, the cldeft daughter here inherits ;
era ' and the sons, like daughters every where
prr j else, are portioned off with frr.all- dowers,
cir • or, which is (till worse, turned our penny
| ]ef3 to feck their fortune. If a man hud two
t r c '[ ' daughters, the eldest, at her marriage, isen-
| titled to all her mother's pofTefllons, which
h.: '■ aie by far the greater part of the family cf
ic!l tnte, as the mother, keeping up her prero.
jut gative, never parts with the power over an}
portion of what (he has brought into tlx
, | family, until th« is forced into it by th(
mawiage of her daughter ; and the father _ did
is also compelled to' r,nin iurtifilf by adding of
whatever he may h tffcraped together by tlu
his industry. The second daughter inhe- ths
rits nothing, and i» condemned to perpetual fen
celibacy'. Sl>e is ililed a which fig- tei
nifies properly a religions woman or nun, fw
and is in effeft a menial servant to her filler,« pa
being employed by her in any office (he may ye
fee fit to impose, frequently serving her as thi
waiting-maid, as cook, and often in employ- pe
mentS ft ill more degrading. She, wears a th
habit peculiar to her Situation, which she th
can never change ; a fort of monastic dress, wl
coarse, and of a dark brown. One advan- of
tage,however, (he enjoys over her filler, that fei
whereas the elder, before Carriage, is never tic
allowed to go abroad, or to fee any man, to
her nearest relaitess only Excepted ; the ca- te
logria, except wnen employed in domestic pa
toil, is in this refpeft at perfedl liberty.— !wl
But when the filler is married, the fitua- D
t{on of this poor calogria becomes desperate j G
indeed, and 03 rendered still more humiliat- | u(
ing by the coraparifon between her condition bi
and that of her happy mistress. The mar- ,gt
ried filler enjoys every fort of liberty ; the j th
whole family fortune is hers, and (he spends : w
it as (he pleases ; her hulband is her obfe- cl
quious servant, her father and mother are T
dependent upon her ; (he drefies in a mod th
magnificent manner, covered all over, ac- as
cording to the fafhion of the island, with ra
pearls and with pieces of gald, which are t'e
commonly sequins ; thus continually carry- tl
ing about her the enviable marks of afflu- ar
' ence and superiority, while the wretched ca- fn
• logria follows her as a servant, arrayed in la
■ simple homespun brown, and without the te
mod didant hope of ever changing her con- a:
: idition. Such a disparity may seem intole- tl
■ rable, but what will not custom reconcile ? r:
1 Neither aVe the misfortunes of the family w
' yet at an end. The father and mother, with d
: what little is;left them, contrive by their in- h
I dudry to accumulate a second little fortune ; it
1 I and this, if there (hould be a third daugh- «
• tcr, they ar? crfjligqd to give her upon her tl
1 I marriage ; and the fourth, if thfre (hould ti
' fbe one, becorAes her calogria ; and so on f
: I through all tht daughters' alternately.— 6
' I Whenever the daughter is marriageable, (he tl
■ can by cuflom cotnpel her father to procure a
j her a h'ufband ; and the mother, such is the f
power of habit, is enough to join her f
lin teasing him into immediate compliance, c
I though its confequcnces mud be tqually fa- t
I tal and ruinous to both of them. From n
' 1 hencd it happens, that nothing is mor« com- i:
mon than to fee the old father and mother I
f I reduced to the utmod indigence, and even a
: I begging about the (Ireets, while their un
' I natural daughters are in affluence ; and we
> I ourfelrts have frequently been fiiown the '■
r I eldcfl daughter parading it through the
I town in the greatest splendor, while her mo
> I ther and fid«r followed her as servants and
- I made a melancholy part of her attendant
f I train.
r I " Thefons.as soon as they areofanage to
- I gain a livelihood, are turned out of the fam
e I ily, sometimes with a small present or por- J
f I tion, bnt mort-ff®qucatly without arry thing t
k " Ito support tlicm ; and thus reduced, they t
i I either endeavour to lire by their labour, or I
9 I which is Jhore usual, go on board some trad- '
- I ing vefTclas sailors or servants, remaining a- >
e I broad till they have got together some com-! '
is I petency, and then return home to be hen- j 1
'• I peeked. Some few there are, who, taking | '
is I advantage of the T urki(h law, break through i
n this whimsical custom, who marry their ca- 1
>f I logrias, and retain to.themselves a compe
'* 1 tent provision : but these are accounted men
i' I of a Angular and even criminal disposition,
»> and are hated and despised as conformids to
"1 the Turkidi manners, and deserters of their 1
J f I native cudoms ; so that wt may suppose
e- I they are few indeed who have the boldness
Ito depart from the manners of their coun
-- I try, to adopt the cudoms of their detested
J t I masters, and to bra*t the contempt, the de-
I rifion, and the hatred of their neighbours and
g- I fellow-citizens.
ar I «< Of all thefc extraordinary particulars
:1s I X was informed by the French cohful, a man
>n 0 f sense, ?nd of indisputable veracity, who
re had refidtd in this illand for several years,
ty I and who Solemnly assured me that every
he I eircumftance was true : but indeed our own
"d I observation left us without the lead room
no I for a doubt, arid the singular appearancei
id I and deportment of the ladies fully evinced
'a- I the truth of our friend's relation. In walK
nd
ing through the town, it ii easy to perceive,
I from the whimsical manners of the female
"g I paflengers, that the women, according to
:ve I the vulgar phrase, nvettr the breeches. Tliey
'fe I frequently (lopped us in !he (Ireets, exam-
I ined our dress, interrogated us with a bold
ta- I and manly air, laughed at our foreign garb
ral I and appearance, and (hewed so little atten
of I
tion to the d<jeent modesty which is, or
sfe 1 ought to be the true charadleriftic of the
er, I sex, that there is every reason to suppose
eft I they would, in spite of their haughtiness,
eir Ibe the kindest ladies upon earth, if they
I were not ftriftly watched-by the Turks,
1 who are here very numerous, and would be
I ready to punish any transgression of their
ungallant law with arbitrary fines. But na
ture and nativemanners will often baffle theef-
I fortseven eftyranny. Inalltheircuftomsthefe
ar- manlyladiesfeenvtohave changed sexes with
for the men. The woman rides astride, the
man sits/sideways upon the horse ;*nay, I
"d, have been effured that the husband's dillin
ere guifliing appellation is his wife's family
"ty name. The women have town and ctJfi*-
te- try houses, in the management of which
ft" the hu(band never dares interfere. Their
ker gardens, their tfervants, are all their own ;
ts ; and tbe huftand, frpm every eircumftance
ere 0 f his behaviour, appears to be no other
ers, than his wife's firft perpetually
n y- bound to her service, and (lave to her ca
price. Hence it is that a tradition obtains
en- in the country, that this island was form<;>-
iich ly inhabited by Amazons ; a tradition, how
ef- evi.f, founded upon no ancient history that
-ro- I know of. Sappho, indeed, the moil re
any nowncd female that this island has ever pro
the duced, is said to have had manly inclinati
the oas: in which, as Lnoitn informs as, fl>:
did but Conform with the fingjjlar manners pes
of her country women : but I do not find I c
tliat the mode in which (he chose to (how lan
these inclinations, is imitated by the present tha
female inhabitants, who seem perfectly con- to
tent with the dear prerogative of absolute W
sway, without endeavouring irt< any other fit;
, particular to;change the course of nature ; onl
yet will this eircumftance serve to (hew, that to
the women of Lelbos had always fomethißg the
peculiar, and even peculiarly masculine, in the
their inanhers and propensities. But be am
this as it may, it is certain that no country mil
wiiatfoevcr can afford a more perfeft idea fig
of an Amazonian commonwealth, 01 better oui
" serve to render probable those ancient r,ela- not
tions, which our manners would induce us T"u
to efteim incredible, than this island of Me- to
telin. These lordly ladies are for the mod (hi
part very handsome, in spite of their dress, tia
' which is fiugular and disadvantageous. wl
Down to the girdle, whicb, as in the old ho
I Grecian garb, is raised far above what we co
j usually call the waist, they wear nothing
but a (hist of thin and transparent gauze, c ' e
| green, red or brown, through which every be
thing is visible, their breads only excepted, an
: which they Mver with a fort of handker- 1,1
, chief; and Jns, as we were'informed, the
Turks have obliged them to wear, while P e
: they look upon it as an incumbrance, and cl<
. as no inconsiderable portion of Tflrkjfh ty- mi
i ranny. Long (leeves of the fame thin ma- vv '
■ t'erial perfectly (hew their arms even to ca
. their (boulders. Their principal orrjaments
. are chains of pearl, to which they hang tc
. small pieces of gold coin. Thejr eyes are an
i large arid fine : and the -nose, which we at
; term Grecian, usually prevails among them, Wl
as it does indeed among the women of all ed
these islands. Their complexions are natu- fei
1 rally fine, but they spoil them by paint, of
■ which they make abundant use; and they
i disfigure their pretty faces by (having the
. hinder part of the eye-brow, and replacing
; it with a straight line of hair neatly applied c,t .
. with some fort of gum, the brow
r thus continued in a straight andtiarrow' line
1 till it joins the hair tin each fide of the
i face. They arc well made, of the middle
- size, and for the mod part
e they are diftinguiflied tyr nothing so much
e and so universally as by a haughty, difdain
e ful, and supercilious air, with which they
r seem to look down upon all mankind as
, creatures of an inferior nature, bom for
. thefr fer>ice, and doomed to be their (laves ;
ii neither does this peculiarity of countenance 1
- in any degree dimini(k their natural beauty,,
r but rather adds to it that fort of bewitching
n attta&ion which the French call piquant."
e CHINESE IHEOLOGY. a
e The following decree published by the Em-
c peror Ton tthing, who succeeded Kang hi t!
>- in 1702, forms a kind of confeffion of 11
d faith, and a declaration of what he viewed a
it as the religion of his fubjedls. The oc- -b
cafion of its publication is fufficiently ex- <1
o prefled in the preamble.
1- " Some of the principal officers of our
[•- provinces hate given a wrong interyiretation j (
jr to the meaning of our orders, transmitted a
y to them, rcfpedling the means of preventing a
>r the damages eccafionfcd in Hie copntry by t
1- deftruitivc infe&J, and have understood them :
1- in a sense quite different from our intention, f
i- | They have erroneoufiy concluded, that I »
i- j have fallen into the ridiculous error of those v
g I who believe in the spirits called couei chiw, as \
h if I imagined prayersoffercd up to thsfe pre- L
a- tended beings, could remedy our present as- '
e- fliftioms. My meaning, therefore, is as c
:n follows : r
n, " Between the Tim or Supreme Being and 1
to man there is a relation, a certain and infal- -
:ir lible correspondence, as to what concerns :
fe punifliments and rewards j when our plains i
•fs are desolated, either by inundations, drought !
n- or infe&s, what is the cause of our calami- '
~d ties ? They are perhaps occasioned by the '
lc- Emperor bimftlf, who deviates from that 1
nd integrity and justice so ncceflary for good 1
government, and thereby Jays the Tien un- 1
irs der the necessity of employing these pur.iih- 1
an ments to bring him back to a sense of his
bo duty. Perhaps they may be occasioned by
rs, the principal officers of the province, upon
ry which those misfortunes have,fallen, in not
vn consulting the public good, and neglefting
>m to take jultice as the rule of'their condudl—
icej And may not these calamities be owing to
ed the Governors of cities, who neither a£t
[k> with equity, nor give the people good ex
re, "amples or Suitable inftrudtion ; cr because,
ale in certain provinces and diftrifts they vio
to late the laws, contemn eftablifiied cudoms,
iey and lead difordeily lives ? The heart of man
m- being thus corrupted, that happy union
aid which ought to subsist between him and the
irb Tien, is interrupted and disturbed, and end
en- less misfortunes overtake us ; for, when
or men come (hort of their duty, that benefi
the cent regard which the Tien had for them ;
ofe becomes changed.
;fs, " Convinced of the truth of this infalli
ley lible dodhine, when I am fr,formed, that
ks, some provincefuffers, either by long drought
be or excessive rains, I search my own heart
ieir carefully, examine my pad conduit, and
na- think of reforming those irregularities which
•ef. may have crept into my palace. Evening
iefe and morning, and all the day long, do I
ith confine myfelf within the bounds of fear and
the refpcct. I endiavourto give the Tien con
, I vir.cing proofs ot my uprightr.efs and piety,
iin-- in hopes that, by a regular life, I fnall be
lily able to make the Tien change the resolution
Pu- which he hath formed cf-punilhihg us. It
lich is in your power, O ye great officers vyho
ieir govern provinces ! it is in your power to -ai
m ; lift me ; it is in yours, yc people, fcldiers,
nee and others, whatever quality ye be, it is in
her your power to acquit yourselves also of this
ally duty : humble yourselves with fear; exa
ca- mite your own condu£l ; drive to attain to
ains perfection ; aid artd mutually exhort one a
ner- nathcr ; refoiTn your manners ; endeavour j
or- to corre& your repent of your
that crimes ; follow the paths of truth ; (luin
: re- those of er.-or ; and be affiired, if we cn
pro- our parts, perfeftly discharge our duties, the
lati- Tien will fulTer himfelfto be moved by our
<h? well rtguTaic-jd cpuduft, and will gr?at ua his
peace and proteAioik These injur.
I canndt too often fepeatr To pre rent ca
lamities, there are no means more certain,
than to keep a ft rift, watch over ouvfeltes,
to live in fear, and to strive for perfe£tion s „
When they tell you to pray and invoke
rits, what do they mean ? It is, at M
only to implore their mediation, to represent
to the Tien the sincerity of our refpect»a))4
the fervour of our desires. To
therefore, in any manner, that ihefe prayert
and these invocations/can remove our cala
mities, and avert misfortunes, while we lose
fight of our duty, negleft to watch over
our dwn conduct, live not in fear, and have
not our hearts filled with refpe&towards the
7"ten, in order to is attempting'
to draw Water after having
shut yp its source ; it is omitting the essen
tial part, and attaching ourselves to that
which is rieceffary only. How can you
hope by such a conduft to obtain ac
complishment of your desires.?
" Hear then again, what I think: lam
clearly and fully persuaded, that there i«
between Tien and man, a reciprocal
and a perfeit correspondence. It fs for your
inftru&ion,. O ye great officers, it is for
yoq that I have not difdained'to take up my
pen, and to explain .my thoughts in the
clearest manner I could in order that yon
may conform to the sentiments
which I have expressed, this is the only
cause of the present inftruftions."
The present emperor, who succeeded Yon
tching in 1736, holds the fame sentiments;
and thus this do&rine of the existence and
attribntes of the supreme being, and the 1
worlhip and homage due to him, has subsist
ed in China without change, during a long ""
series of ages.
/< LB ANT, October 9.
COMMUNICATION.
" At a ball lately htld hi the vicinity of this
city,there were dancing on the jloor at onetime,
btjides nine other persons:
I Grand-mother, -with 2 grar.cl-daughtcr s,
I Mother, with I daughter,
I Father and one mother, with 2 daughters,
I Step mother, with oneJlcp fan,
I A 1 other-in-law, with one jon-in-law,
I StepJiJler, with oneJlcp brother,
1 Husband, with one wife,
2 Jijlers, and but five Persons."
BALTIMORE, Oftober 13.
The following was politely sent in by captain
Etheridge, of the snow Olive Branch', whs
arrived from Aux-Cayes on the xth inflant,
at North-Point.
SeptMnber 9th, we left at Aux-Cayes in
company with the brig Swallow, o£ New-
York, and brig Friendship, of.Bofton, cap- <
tain Cutter. Saw nothing until the morn
ing of the 15th, when we were spoken by
an Engliffi tender from Port-au-Prince and
bound for the Mole—with politeness en
quired from, and wi/h us a good paftage.
Same day, at 5 P. M. being between the
• Mole and Cuba, observed txvo small boats
(fchoofter- rigged) making towards us with
ail poflible speed, but night coming on, and
• an English frrgate heaving- in fight '3' Ifftt'i
• to windward of the Platform, they gave up
1 the chace and dropped to leeward of us—
faw nothing more of Hhem that night.—
[ Next morning, 16th, we had got a good
. way to windward of the Moie ;• at 6A. M
s little Or no wind, we observed two small
. boats, supposing them to be the fame we
. had seen the preceding night ; at 8, we djf
-5 ceroed them to be French row-barges, and
rowing for us, being becalmed; at 11,
J boarded us. Thefi barges had a great mariy
- fwivds mounted, and between4o and $0
s armed men between the two—i wore we were
s from an Englilliport, and directly took pos
t feflion of tbe velfel j they then demanded nil
_ my papers, which were immediately deliv.
g ered tliAn 5 -on their examining the papers,
t they said we were from Aux-Caves ; they
d made several attempts to get them all deftroy
-- ed, but by the exertions of Mr. M'lntofh,
the supercargo, myfelf, and a gentleman
is passenger, were prevented, and prevailed on
y to return them to me ; at the fame time
n promising that they (hould be kept fafe,
,t and delivered up to the officers of the ad
g miralty, whenever we should arrive at the
1 port they intend taking us to. In one'of
o the barges they had two American sailors,
t whom they took out of the Hoop George,
c- of Norfolk, which sloop they sent that
morning into Gonaives, for condemnation,
3- with a brig belonging to Philadelphia, name
s, unknown. To those two iailori they offer
in ed 20 johannes each, if they would fay
>n they saw Us in an Englift port.
Ie attempted to bribe all the people of the
i. Olive Branch ; and to the gentleman. pafiVn
;n ger on board, they offered 1600 dollars, to
5- mention that we were from an English pert,
r. Finding our cargo valuable, they ii'ga'in di- •
mqndcd all the (hip's papers, which were
li- politely refufed them by Mr. M'lntofh and
at mvftlf; telling tl'.em at the fame time, that
ht the different admini ft rations of St.'Dohiiugo,
in not fatisfied with ta> jig ou.' had
nd granted commifiions to every class of citi
:h zens, to plunder our veflels and,interrupt
ig , our commerce on the high seas, and that the
I ship's papers were on the only weapons our
nd good government permitted us to carry, for
m- the defence of our veffcls and cargoes againit
:y, our good and faithful allies the French—but
be that, however, the papers were ready, and
on would be produced at the requelt of the
It the admifHtv at the port thev
ho meant tcr carry u: to (a port in Cuba, ca'led
a s- Barracoa ). After detaining us all that day,
rs, and taking us out of courfy they plundered
in the cabin of every thing that VVa's valuable ;
his taking with them atelefcope of mine, which
ca- colt me tfcn guineas in England ; ail our
to wine arid oth.'r liquors, 4 »nd almost all our
a- provilioßS. After'force confutation they
>ur concluded, that 11 nee the papers were not
jur destroyed, they could make nothing o'f us,
iun by tdkiug us. cither to a French or Spat|ifn
on port, they left Us, faying " go vbo-t your
the bvfinefs, y r-t. American rafca!s !" One of the
jur aforementioned American sailors they pbf
his on board' of us-»bc£,h of vvhoia had Lewicompelled to row after as yi the barge all
the morning. These are fa£ts, which, if
Bsceffarjy c:an be attested by all that were
on bosrd, belonging to the Olive-Branch.
POWERS ETHERIDGE.
By this Mail;
MEW-YORK, October 17.
GRATITUDE TO PATRIOTISM.
Ye Herd ay the citizens of New-York ex
hibited a fpJendid proof of attachment,to
the federal government, by their honorable
reception of 'the President of the United
States. ,
Agreeable tf V rev cap
tain Loyell and Lamb's tr<jpps of horse, pro
ceeded early in the morning to Haerlem
bridge, where they met the President, and
escorted him to town.
On their approach, the several uniformed
cerps formed at the Bull's Head tavern, and
joining the procession, moved forward in the
following order :
Captain. Lovell's troop of horse—captain
Lamb's do.—captain Duryet's company of
grenadiers—New-York Rangers, command
ed by lieutenant Laight—band of mufic—
captain Ardent's Independent Rangers—
captain Hulett's New-York Volunteers—
captains Richardson and Wolfe's companies
of iufzntry—military officers on horseback
—the PRESIDENT in his coach and four,
attended by a detachment of the cavalry— .
citizens in carriages and on horf-back. ~ J
The route was from the Bull's Head thro' ,
Bowery-lane, Chatham-street, Broadwa-,',
Beaver-(lreet, into Broad-ftrcet—The mili
tary advanced up to Garden-ftrset, wheeled,
and formed a line from Mr. Avery's hotel
to Beaver-ftfCet —The President then left his .
coach, and walked, uncovered, to his lodg-,
ings at Mr. Avery's, accompanied by gene
rals Morris and Hughes, and a number of ,
other gentlemen of dillinCtion.
While the procession wa3 moving down
Broadway, the bells of Trinity church com
menced ringing—A federal salute was fired
by captain Ten Eyck's company of artillery
from the Battery, and another by the gar.
rifon ill Governor's I (land fort. The Britifli
Frigate Thifbe fired a royal salute, a mark of
attention on the part of captain Hardy,
which reflects great honor oh his character
a»an officer and gentleman..
It is but justice to fay, that the whole
business was conducted by the military in the
molt proper manner ; and that their good or
der, soldierly appearance and behaviour, and
the promptitude and corre£tne& with which
they performed the various evolutions, did
thera much credit.
The croud of citizens which attended,
was immense. All appeared equally anxious
to behold the First Magifti'ate of a FREE
PEOPLE » and by repeated shouts, an
nounced the general fatisfsftion with one of
their most early, zealou3, tried frienfc, \whofc
past services arc too great, too deeply im
prelled, ever to be forgotten by the existing
generation, or obliterated from the faithful
records of the American revolution.
Co rnmunieat'ton.
COME TOOUR BOSOMS ADAMS!
m them wilt thou find-jthe holy fire of grat
itude which thy patriotic virtues have kin
dled I—Come and warm thy blood, render
ed fold by age a/id toilsome services for thy
country !—New-York stands foremoft in
an ardent attachment to our federal gov
ernment ; and whatever the billingsgate vo
ciferation of a few noisy demagogues may
fay »o the contrary, we warmly approve of
your unatnphibiou.s and decided speech at
the opening of the extra fefiion of Coiigrefs ;
as mildly but firmly expressing, in a tligi £ d
manner, the just feelings of indignation
which the piratical conduft of the banditti
of thqFreachnation had excited inthe bread
of every true American. What a trans
porting fight did not yellerday alford to ev
ery mind not biafled 'by a criminal predi
lection to foreign nations in preference to
our own 1 To fee men of a)l ranks—of eve
ry religious persuasion—os different nations.
joining in ONE CHORUS OF APPRO
BATION to the Chief Magistrate of the
Union. Amidst the various sources from
whence the President received ftiouts of ap
plause, none was more unexpected and pleas
ing than the huzzaing and clapping of hands
from the prisoners, who were on the top
of the j?il. All was joy and exultation from
one end of the city to the other—bells
ringing—guns firing and clap
ping of hands—Even many honest patriots
who were supposed. inimical to our federal
government, Slid mora, attached to France
than their own country, to their honour be
it spoken, loft fight ps tbeif supposed crimi
nal prejudices, and joined in effufions of
gratitude towards the man who, in so ma
ny trials abroad and at home, has deserved
well of his But while we feel an
exouifite fatisfaftion in making honorable
mention of many-men of this city whom it
was not expedtcd would join even at this
critical moment-in any measures of exulting
spprobation in the reception of a man who
had spoken in such just term 6 of patriotic in
dignation against the French nation for the
insult and injuries offered towards our citi
zens, still there were a few green-eyed mon
ftcrs who could not conceal their inward ,
tortures at feeing the universal enthuiiafm
which pervaded all ranks of people on the
entry cf ;hc virtuous and patriotic Adams
into shis city. How happy is it for Ame
rica, that we still have a President who
dares speak sentiments of independence, and
eomplain of injuries done us, even by the
French Republic—What a different language
woqld have been held forth by Mr. Jefier
fon, had he been President ! We should, my
independent countrymen, have kified the rod
that feourged us—have/' licked the hand
just raised to fhtd our blood."
(Cj- The committee of arrangements give
notice, that the President has mentioned
Wednesday next ?u the day on whiA it will
be agreeable to him to accept of the enter-
tainraent intended for him br the citizens
-of this place. The dinner therefore will
be provided 011 that day, at the City As-
Jjembly-roodA, Broad-way, at 4 o'clock.
Such, of the citizens as would yet wish
to fubferibe, will pi cafe to leave their names
with one of the committte.
CommiHee of Arrangements.
Cornelius' Ray, Nicholas Fish,
James Farqtihar, Jacob Morton.
Ebenezer Stevens,
O&ober 1 7'.
\
We understand the President of the U
nited States intends honouring John-street
Theatre with his presence this evening,
and that the stage-box is engaged for his
reception.
The honorable reception of Jifr. Ticunl ifi
Knoxville, is a proof that his projetts have ei
ther met with the approbation of his neighbors,
or at leqfl have nrt been confidcred as criminal.
Indetd many of them are doubtless bis accom
plices.
Extract of a letter dated Fort Schuyler, 03.5.
" / have now the pleasure to inform you.
that yefierday the canal was opened, and that
every part of the work completely anfwertd its
intended purpose. One empty baltectu (carrying
the Flag of the United States) and three loaded
ones, ascended through the loch from the Mo
hawk into the canal, pajfed along the fame, and
dcfccnded through the foci into Wood Creel, (a
dijlance exceeding two miles) in little more than
40 minutes. I believe the average will
never exceed one hour : what the detenlionfr
rnerly was, I need not inform you. The fup
plyiig and discharging weirs fully avfwer my
expedations ;by their meant the canal may at
any time be filled or emptied'in a few 'hours,—
Each weir contains five paddles , three feet in
length £3* two iff an half in height, two of theft
are fujicient to fill IFood Creek with as miie.b
as is requisite for loaded boats navigating there
in.
WARREN, Oftober 7.
" Ixndon, July 3 [', 1797.
" MefTr6. Simon and Rufus Burr,
Warren, R. I.
" I have the pleasure of informing you,
that on Saturday last I received the amount
of the award in your favor, in cafe of the
Betsey, Burr, from the Britilh o-overnment
for which you will please to draw on the
per conveyance. The account will stand
thus 1
Award, £. 446 19 6
Interest * 1 April 15, '94,1
to July 1,'97, at 5 per cent. J '
518 13 7
Cost of suit, 14 4 10
balance due sterling, ,504 8 9
£5041.83. 9d. fter. equal to 2241 dol. 64cts.]
" It is neceflary that your drafts (hould
be accompanied by letters of advice. I aui,
gentlemen, your obedient servant,
SAMUEL- BAYARD."
BALTIMORE, Oft. 16.
BOARD of HEALTH.
BURIALS
In the weft part of Baltimore, heretofore
called the town—for the last twenty-four
hours—ending this morning at fun-rife :
1 Adult, 1 Child.
Burials in the east part, called Fell's
Point, See. including the Potter's Field :
4 Adults, -- 3 Children.
(Signed) Joseph Townlend, clerk.
O&ober 13.
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY Octobfr 18.
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
From 17th to 18th Oil. in the morning.
Admitted, since last report,
Henry Pitcher—Lombard-street, between
sth and Chefnut-ftreets
Charles Harkins—3d street, 2 doors from
German street
Margeret Henfcy—Vernofrftreet
Discharged, since last report,
SufAna Monks—admitted 71b ultimo
Susanna Brown 19th
Charlotte Brown 2 2d
Catharine Gallagher 24th
Sarah Robinson 6th instant
Haniiah Jamifon 4th
James York lyth
Margaret Groflcup 29th ultimo
Ledy Carney ' 29th
Died since last Report.
I how long ill previ
| 011s to admittance.
James Fairch'ild, (48 hours) 5 days.
Remaining last report 46
Admitted since 3
♦ 49
Discharged 9
Died 1 10
r. • •tjr •. 1 fConvalefcentl 11 „„
Remain in Hospital. -j 2 g c 39
Four of whom are dangerous.
In erred since last report.
From city aud suburbs 8
, Hospital 1
Total 9
Stephen Girar».
(Signed) Caleb Lownes.
John Conhelly.
Published by order of the Board,
Wm. MONTGOMERY,
Chairman pro tem.
Married, on Sunday evening last, at Au
burn, near Trenton, by the Rev. Mr. Hun
ter, Alexander Cuthaert, Esq. eldest
son of the Hon. Capt. James Cuthbert, .of
Berthier in Canada, to Miss Susan Stock
ton, daughttr of the Hon. Richard Stock
ton, Esq. late of Morvert, New-Jersey.
Died] —On Saturday last, ne;r Darby,
captain Benjamin Loxley, of this City.
[ Interments during the last 24 hoarj, end
uing- th»s day at 12 o'clpck,—Seventeen.
. Deathaon the iSthO&ober, 1793 —firty-
nine.
! 1 #Jj*
Interments' since obr lafk Remits, as col-
L-fted for this Gazette, from the Sextons
of the different Burying gf^wsds.
Adul.*. ' Children.
Quakers % o
Free Quakers* O O
German Lutheran o O
German Calvaries o I
FiiP, T'refbyt.-rian O O
Sec nri o I
Third'Pre/byterian 2 O
Scots l%* fbyt; rian O O
ACocjprc Church Q o
St. tVUryVChurch i+i o
Trinity O o
SwedW" 'jX -j t b„ »o
Jews , \ ■ A O
lVter\ Field o o
IVlomviuns o o
Baptists a o
Mcrthodift< o o
IJniverfali.'U o o
u o
Coatcs's o Q
City Hospital 9 o
Chrifl ChuitA o O
St. Peer's I o
S;' 4 Paul's o ©
»
Total 15 2
BUCKS COUNTY RETURN— 1797,
SENATORS.
John Shoemaker 1506
Joseph M'Clellan 686
Lindfay Coats, 435
REPRESENTATIVES.
Ralph Stover 2428
Isaac Vanhorne 2294
* Isaac Watson
Theophilus Foulke 1289
Israel Lanafter 1 27?
Gilbert Rodman io js
William B.uckrtKin 640
' sheriffs.
Daniel Thomas , , . , , .HJg. I
Phinehas Paxtan *y 4aeg
John Parker ' 943
coroner.—Cephas Cbilds.
commissioner —SaTrruel GilV' n ghartj.
* Nfw member. ( »
OF PEACE. s*
The present is a moment of anxious expecta
tion. On the ilTue of the negotiation between
Creat-3ri f ain and France," various intcrefts, public
and private, are lufpcndcd. Tho some of opin
ion, that peace between thpfepowfcrs will operate
the United St it?*, a 1 it will leave France at
liberty to chastise, or bring us to her feet, wv
arc of opinion that our em'jarrafTmcnti cannot be
encraafed by the event of peace. The commer
cial interests of Great-Britain, are cflenthlly blen
ded with thole of the United States, and it is not
poflible that lhe could cons. Nt tda facrifice so im
portant, in making a voluntary peace ; and France
knows that any other peace must be delusive and
momentary.
The intereft# of the United States, so far, there
fore, as those of Great-Britain are involved with
will be considered, and prsferved in a peace;
and, this idea extends to those interest in a degree
beyond calculation. Some persons have after ted
that Great-Britain is at so low an ebb that (he
must make peace, and that France will so far dic
tate the term*, as not to permit the United States
to be mentioned in the treaty. It is admitted that
France can continue the war so lonjr as internal
peae; can be maintained* The war liofv fuppom
lrfelf wherever it is ex'em'cd. The public; bur.
thensarenot encreafed by it, but'probaCly dimin
ished. It may be queried whether the £ubl ; c bur
thens have not, been
of the fcrmies to Fririce. The war er».n therefore
without doubt be cdntinr.ed 0:1 the part of France
—•England also can continue it. The diflolutio i
of her co* ttnontal connexions operates to enhance
her resources for nation rtn th it element where fne
is paramount. - France f?ouri(h by war. A
state of ho.'ility is unfriendly ro the great change
which ha> taken p'ace. It renders all attempt- to
reduce the new fyflcm to p.ra&iec so as tojfc c luce
a favorable contrail between the pivfent a*<d the
pad impra&ieaMe. The mas« of mankind reafcn
from their feelings; and Mr fling* in reserve, are
nevsr appreciated, while pre'ent evils arc aiwayt
th e worst that were ever endured,
The war mud therefore come to an end, ind
that fpecdily. France can never expeifl to be ;.ble
to make better terms; (he ntgrt f ia?eii on the pinna
cle of viilor) —if the golden opportunity b Inr'l, it
may pcv« r u-tu r n, and the <lay when the bjeflihgs
of freedom can be erjoyexl in France, mull.be in
definitely the are more
tartly 1 conceived rhaa { fhe great obfta
cl"« in the way of pe.icc are tha former Dut h pof«
feflions intha Fall Indies. Britain is I>renuocs to
retain them, l>ut cither power will cuk them
ratlur than break oft* the negotiation. A. third
attempt to negotiate wi 1 be impcfljble ;
the prefect must therefore fucceed.^
The Jacobins, to prove how completely tKcy re»-
femble their father, the devi*, pronounce the len
tence of condemnation, where peity acquits.
Mr. Hamilton's pamphlet, so far as it contains a
confeflion, is particularly otlious to the Jacobins —
Such an exaaiple is a mirror they cannot face.
Clodius accufat maechos i> a ftron«r phrafc of Ju
venaFs to express the absurdity of that mail, who,
guilty himfeif, criminates his neighbor. Whin a
trio of Boston demos undertake to revile Col. Ha
milton, because he Was seduced by Mr*. Reynolds,
he might exclaim* 44 gentlemen, it U extremely cu
rious that an intrigue ftiould be blamed by whore- %
mongers, adulterers, and even this publican."
f iValpole pap,
No news-papers were received from the
Eajlward of New-Tori by this day's mail—
No BoJlon papers have come to hand ftnee
Monday lajl. 4
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
J Arrived at A*eiv»TTori. Pays.
Bhin Citizen, Whtaion, I ifbou 59
Schr. Nancy, Taylor, Aux Cayes
JnJi Published, and now Selling,
By BENJAMIN DA VIES,
At his-BoOK-SToRe, Nd Hi"h-Street,
The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
and
A if X ISA LJtRG fS ~ERforth UNIT ED STATES
FOR THE Y E Aft. 17^8:
Conrainirn complete and correct lilts of the Erecu
t vc, I cijilHtive and Judicir.ry l
DTP;\HTMEN'I 3 of GOVERNMENT,
And a Variety of life nl tables, r;cccffaiy to bt
Va'owii in < very State of ths Dniou.
Emiuilijbti w'tk I'x'o band[mt Engravingi,
One c,f >vluch is depiilive of a melancholy fccr.e
that occurred dur.ng the Americas v/ux.
Oi 1 .. 18.
From the XN. T.) Time Pifc's.
Doctor Caid\Veli ofPhilatlclpliia, in
publicly announcing his intention to difeon
tipiie his fn'sfcriotioa to Porcupine's- Ga
zette, appears afliduous to obviate any "eon
jedlure* which might thereby arise of h's "fa
vouring republican principles. He declares
hfrnfelf a zenloifs si : erid to the measures of
the late nail present administration ; and
that at tlie commencement of this moll ob
noxious gazette, it was,in his op'nion, (in
w*.ich, as well as the opinion now entertain
ed of it, all men of fcr.fe and refinement, he
Vays, wil concur with him) " a work of
great public utility, a repository of lifeful
fafls, of valuable principles, and acute and
ingenious speculations, good sense forming,
the body, and energy and correftnefs of
ftik the dress"—that on account of its re
cent ohange from nfeful and judicious satire,
to low vulgarity and abuse, producing, in
the present calamitous crifi3, mifehiefs never
to be atoned for by any pqffiblc future fcri vi
ces of the Editor, ■he has deemed it incum
bent on him no longer to encourage its cir
culation, and profefles hiir.felf ready, when
ever Mr. Porcupine's account againfl him
fliall be exhibited, .to difeharge the fame ct
fight. Most of this Editor's fubferibers, he
observes, are " men of considerable acqpi
fitions in fcicnce, of high refinement in li
terature, } .idges of (entiment, judges of
style, judges of every thing embraced in the
extensive region of talle."—lJe therefore
prsfumes condemn hiin, in his public ca
pacity, for his notorious want of delicacy in
not accommodating his paper to the talieof
his readers. Much fault is found with his
numerous quotations from the True BMton,
a paper, the condu&ors of which he deems
below contempt, wotwithftanding they ad
vocate those principles of order and found
policy which he w/fhes to preserve their as
cendancy in Britain.
If the Doftor has been eoir.njiiTioned by
the fubferibers at large to convey these
tvholefotr.e lefTons nfaothority to. Mr. Por
cupine's ear, it might not have been am:fs
explicitly to have said so ; if not, it may
well be conceived that all he had to do was
to withdraw his own name at discretion, and
leave other fubferibers (particularly those
who are men of tafie and science) to follow
their own inclinations. If Mr. Porcupine
chufes to offend them all, hirafelf, and not
the Dr. will be the fufferer. A friendly
hint 011 this fcrtre (though a liberty which
some men of delicacy wouldhefitatetoaffume)
might possibly have been well received if well
meant ; but for the doftor, without autho
rity, to take upon him the offic»of di3ator
general is aristocracy witj) a vengeance; he
might have spared himfeif his extraordinary
pains to repel suspicions of Jacobinism after
this specimen of an opposite temper. When
Mr. Porcupine wishes for advice in hit own
profeffion, he doubtless knows to whom he
is to apply for it : unsolicited counsel
would not, however, appear to less advan
tage in a less diftatorial garb.
But what can have rendered two avowed
ariflocrats so inimical to each other? vAp
pearances fceuv to indicate that the Doftor's
principles extend further than those of his
late colleague. Porcupine is friendly only
to political monopoly; but medical monopoly
(which with the Dr. is equally sacred) has
not yet, it fcetm, been adopted as a
his creed. Porcupine, though a medico-lay
man or swine (the Dr. will furnifh a suitable
term) has ventured publickly to give an p
pinion on a medical fubjett: He has for
oncfiqueftioned the propriety of Hood-letting,
and this ii held up as a crime never to be
expiated. If the one-has no right to haz
ard an opinion for the .good of his fellow
creatures on a medical fubjeft, what right
has the other, for the benefit of his feliow
fubferibers, to interfere in news-paper or
political fufc}e£ts? Neither of them lay claim
to infallibility; neiglvbctur's fare therefore
must reasonably be expected. Porcupine has
not profeffed any knowledge of medicine;
his opinions therefore do not appear in dif
puife: patients of found mind who compare
taem, when accompanied with reasons, with
those of a Physician, will judge for them
selves what weight to attach to each, and if
the u.lfupportcd opinions of one illiterate
person be preferred to those of.abody of the
faculty, it is an evil for which the alflifted
may demand pity, but for which the hon ■
eft enquirer cannot deserve ceafure, Ad
mitting Mr. Porcupine's motives to the be
nevolent, and the contrary ought not light
ly to be presumed, is he not to be commen
ded for his endeavours to prevent the contin
uation of what he really believes to be mis
chievous and fatal ? would fye not be crim
inally remiss in with-holding them? When
his opinions (hall have been experimentally
proved to be erroneous, all men liable to be
atcaeied with the prevailing diftuder will be
gainers by the discovery, and 4/il! become
c6nverts to bleeding when experience fliall
warrant its utility.
Dr. Caldwell contends that negle£l in ti
ling the lancet, or using it with too sparing
a hand, in the early stages of this diieafe,
is proved to be fatal by the frequent and
copious hemorrhages which in this cafe,
and not otherwise, nature too often ineffec
tually throws out for the patient's . relief,
owing to obftru&ions, the removal of which
has been too long delayed, Porcupine's in
famious and criminal paragraphs again ft the
practice, he observes, have, to !As owu
knowledge destroyed the lives of some citizens
three in (lance-, are-adduced where patients,
bow dead, have refufed to undergo the oper
ation, merely from the reading'if them; and
to this refhfal, under the otherwise favoura
ble symptoms of their complaints, he attri
butes their ceaih; every other practicable
means for their reeoveiy having been care
fully and anxioujly tried. So long a3 the
doctor's premised can he maintained, his
conclulio'ns are natural and necessary, but it
be admitted on the other hand that
those who advocate a cqntraiy practice,
would in the cases mentioned, infer that
bleeding would have accelerated the patient;
difoluticft. Eeeaufe the I?j:. thinks proper
to chsVgfe their ctsth to Porcupine, whom
hefcruplis not to arc life of crimin»l intc;i
tiou, he /iffres to taKe it fcr granted that
i the latter mult cut his throat in rcmorfe for
his crime, and that this without further ex
amination will effctbnlly phtcethe system
he advocates upon a firm and durable found
aticn. What njptivccan Mr. .Porcupine be
fuppofed-to have for wantonly fporii>.• g with
the live-, of,his fellows? Their deaths can
in no wife bentsCt him: If he does not con
tinue to .recommend a measure after experi-
(hall have proved it to be injurious, a
caution to refrain from a practice the good
effefts of which have, till lately, been ques
tionable even among the faculty (a mere ne
gative provision) is certainly less blameable
than some positive experiments which hare
been made Jjy physicians upon pitfents la
bouring under a new disorder. " Let the *
De-Jii have his due;" though Mr. Porcir
p'inc may aim at the definition of our li
berties, yet this has no connexion with an
aitack upon our lives.
A REPUBLICAN. \
Frcm the (New-Tori) Commercial Gazette»
Among all the writers on the plague which
has ravaged our sea-ports for some years
none appears to have noticed the method of
cure prescribed by Moses, in the 16th chap
ter of Numbers. A plague broke out in tlx:
camp of Israel ; which was then in a coun
try extremely fubjedt, as it is dill, to the
yellow fever, or plague. * The people were
alarmed, and murmured agflinlt Moses and
Aaron. [For the people were grumbleri
then, as they are now, ar.d laid every evil,
mora! and physical, to their rulers. Indeed !
this plague happened jufl after those jacobia
ical fellows, Korah, Dathan and Abiram, i
had been preaching liberty and equality, and i
had been fwalie«,td up alive.]
When Moses discovered the yellow fever
among the Israelites, he directed Aaron " to
take a censer and put fire therein, and put
on incense—and go to the congregation and ,
make an atonement." Aaron did so, and '
" he flood' between the dead and the firing,
and the plague was flayed."
On firll reading this, one would be resdjf
to call it a miraculous interposition of Provij
dence. But why fnould we resort to such
a conftruition of the passage ? The censer
was filled with incense burning. Now if w«
suppose a single censer only to be used, we
cannot suppose the power of it, either by
agitating the air or diffufing a wholefomi
perfume, to be equal to the effe£t mentisnj
ed,»viz. flaying a plague that had carried off
fourteen thotffand. But is it not probable
that vail numbers of confers were used, tho*
the high priefl and his censer are alone men*
tioned ? In the passage which relates to the
affair of Korah, great numbers are mention,
ed, and it is well known how much theyj
were used in the Jewish facrifices.
Combining a little philosophy with the
historical account qf that plague, we may
suppose that Aaron separated the sick and
dead from the well, into a diflant part of ,
the camp, and that he employed burning )
censers to agitate and purify the air. i
It is well known that fire creates a cir
culation of air and though it has been
asserted» that it is hurtful to kindle fires ia
infe&ed places, because they deflroy the
refpjrable qualities of the air, yet this iJ
not true, un[ef» in tight vefTtls. It is true
that flame deftfoys air; but it is only that
whifch comes in contact with it—and this
very circumflance is favorable, for by rfli
dering that portion in contaft with it- lighter,'
it rises, and the air bdlow rufr.es in to fill
Up the deserted place. In this way fire
creates perpetual circulation or adtion.
Now by a law of fluids, action ia neceP
fary to keep them pure, that is, all the in
gredients which cornpofe them combined/
By water and air lose their pu
rity—the parts separate and become un
u-holt some. Stagnant water becomes thick
and ofifenfive ; but we ar: that impure
and putrid water at sea, is cleansed and ren
dered perfectly fit for use, by agitation of
the vessel, or by being pcured from one
calk to Another.
In the fame manner air may be mixed
and purified by action. Fire creates aftion,
and should a city, during a plague, be kept
open, and every houMiolder be compelled
to keep two or three fires, it is extremely
probable that it would have a great effett
in purifying the atmosphere', and arresting
the power of its-contagious influence. '
It .is hot improbable that the aromatics
consumed in the Jewish censers, might be
ufeful in correcting the state of the air.—
Bub the chief effedt Was probably produced
by the aftion given to the air bp the fire and
the motion of the censers.
It ii desirable that we should avail our*
selves of all the scraps of ufeful knowledge
to be collected from ancient hiflory, as well
as modern experiments. Whatever we may
think of that old book, the bible, there is a
vast fund of ufeful fa£ts in the Levitical laws;
and particularly uffful for a people in hot
countries. All the washings ana purifica
tions, directed by Moses, had their use ;
and we, when we grow Wife enough not to
despise antiquity, (hall revive the praftice of
many bf the laws of Moses.
The by obeying the regulations
of Moses, escaped the diseases of the cli
mate—But the modern inhabitants of ~E
gypt, by naglectiagthe fame falutarj* rules,
perish with the plague by thoafands and
millions. And so (hall we in America, uu
lefi we change our habits of living, and our
"mode of build i'-ig cities. .
Walked <& Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front Street,
HA VK FOR IALI,
ioc Hogfheada of' prime Georgia Tobacco,
ALSO,
50 Piprt i f Bonrdraux Brandy,
,10 Pipes of old Port Wine -
O,". lawtf.
Tijh MAYOR'S OFFICE
i« iurr, for t.he rassrNT, ax ths „
CITY HAU*.
Tept 8.Imported in the Imp M aw she st e r,
Benjamin Sheu'ell, Malk*,
From Ho ii ' uau>t, and for sale by t}ie fubi'cribei",
v k it Walnut ?r eet.
Bor.rtLaiix Brandy ~~i
liilti market tin ret in cases ! Entitled to
Medoc wine, in ' do. i" Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas hiurgatr&yd.
WHO HAS FOft SALE.
Sherry Witie in pipes and quarter calks
Rota do. do.
Pimento i,T bags
Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the highest biddcr, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of thr Indian
C>»ecn, in the city of Baltimore, on the 15 th
da/ of OiSober next, at ri o'clock, hw M
About seven acres of la-td,
the propsrty of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying t>etwecn Heifter's-town and Weltminller,
called Little Winchefler, ( the turrf
p'lt" road runs through a confutable part of
thife lands) the trart be,gin3 about 17 miles 1
from Ba'Jjirn&rf, within a f«w hundred yards j
of (did Reiiler'j-unyn, and yxtends to the dil- j
tance of about twenty-three milts from Bjlti
r/>OT<S and lies on the main falls of Patapfiea 1
river, from three to four miles thereon- Will
he sold in tia.tfls of One hundred and fifty to ,
three hundred acre. There is a large proper- j
tirm of meadow and wood land on each trafl, 1
some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine gr'-fa.
At SO
A tract of seven hundred acres of
land,; called Clover Farms, within five miles of
Bladenfhurg, cOeemed very gocd for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby,of BUdeniburgh, will (hew .
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
ALSO, ■!
A traft of land of about three hun
dred and thirty awes, within about two miles
and a. half o the President's house in the Fede
r.il City. It is nearly all wood land, and. a fine
li'i»S rrofpctH, frowhich may be fern the I
thy cf Vi'alYmgton, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and a part of Oeili ge-town, and many ini!e»
dowikthe Potomacriver. Ms. Richard Poi.foit
by, of Blader.flj'jrg, will also £b£\v this land.
A liber 31credit will be given for-the greatcd
par: of the pur< hafe money. Ibe terms will
be made known ort the day of Tale.
, Mav 8 w.tm
-
Just Received,
From Batavia (viaProvi.lcrce)
a few Box»sof Spices, confiding of
N'ir;iiegs, Clbvesand niace
Fer sale 1 y
IyiLLTXGS'd FRANCIS,
Pcnn flreet.
nay jo dtf
Davis I Jr Laiu Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE D AVI S,
BEll-lO busied for some time pad in prrpara
tiins fcr removing into his profent house, has
been undet thentctflityof podponinguntil this <Jay
infermi' gthegentjetrun of the Bar generally thro.'
the l,la:teU States, that bis ipring importation of
law books is now .Arranged and reaJy for fa'e, 011
terms that he trulls will ratitlehim to the like prc
fccence he has experienced for leveral years^palt.
Catalogues, combining the most varied coliec
* on ever imported i<ato thib country, are printed
and will fee duhv„red on application.
fune 27. 2aw 6w
City CommtJfiQr.trOffice,
"fune »», 1797.
TN purfi'iJlirc of an ordinance from the feleiS
i and comnvn councils, parted the i»d day of
May lefl, apyoinjing the city cotrimilfioners,
and preferring their duties, feilion 9th,
NOTICE 13 HEREBY GIVfiK,
That the city is divided into five dillriftj,
nch to be under the fuperintendance of one of
the eity commiflioners, whois to be individually
relponfible for the cleanliness of the fame, and
are as follow.
IVriftriifl No. I. fouth fide of Ce
dar-ftrtet, to the north fine of Spruce-flreet, un
rthe fuperiutendencc of Nathan Boys.
1. From the north fid: of Spruce-ilreef, to
the north lide of Walnut-fti eet, under the super
intendence of Hugh Roberts.
3. From the north fide of Wlimit to the south
fide of H i;h-flreet, untltr the fupenntendcnce ot
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of Iligh-ftrect, to the
north fid* ijf Mulberry flreet, under the fuper
jntendence of Willi»m Motilder.
?. From the north fuleof Mulberry-ftre<t to
the north fide of Vine-flreet, under -he fuper
infene'enie of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleajiingof High-fiwet to be in co»m«on.
stated meeting of the city comraiflign
er/iiDeli at the OM Colirt House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'cldck
July 14. eoim
Stands for Draymen, £sV.
lit pnrfuant* of an Ordinance from theScieft anil
Common Counc Is, bearing date the 21 d day
April, 1797 > providing for the appointment of
City Commtfionerj, Sr. Se3. the 15th.
r following places'are 1 fixed upon by the
i said City Coinmiffioners for Stands for
Draymen and their Horfct.
In Vine-flreet, eaflward of Front-street, on
both fides.
Saffafras, High, Chefnut and Walr.ut-fttreets,
eaflward ot Front-flreet, on the no/th fide only.
Mujberry-ftreet, south fide from Front to
Third-flreet. 1
Front-ilreet, east fide from Vine-street to
Elfrith's alley.
Front-street, from opposite to Black Hone al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east lide.
VVater-ftreet, weft fide from the north end of
Stomper's or Moore's stores to Pine-street.
PemWftreet from Pine to Ce-Jir-ftreet, vreft
fide.
'Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South flreets, east of Front
street, south bde.
Dock-street, between \Valnut»-ftrett and the
flag ltone croffir.gs, east fide, opposite George
Orklev's.
Second-ftrrrt, between SafTifras and Vine
fircts, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry streets.
Sailafras-ftreet, fr<gp Third to Fourth-Ilreet,
east fide.
No drav or horse to stand within ten feet of
any pump.
STANDS FOR UACKNF.T COACHES.
Pinc-frect, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
fire cts*
Fiftbwftreet, between Chefnut and Walnut
streets, weft.
Branch-street, north fide, between Third antj
Fourth streets. .
July 14. mw«Xiim
A Literarv Treat.
JuJt publj/Ijed, handfor.mly prhiuvl on ivrti'tng
paper > pr'ne I dollar,
A new edition of that popular arnf enaetpining'
v.'ortc,
"pHE FORESTERS, an Araerics* ; . Tlie ; hciug
L a fequcl to the history of John Bull, the Ci j*
thier—ln aft! iesof letter- ' > airit'iid, with the ad
dition of t\\o letters, alluding to rtccm political
i ran (onions in America.
i"h« following extra#, ifrom the Clayis
fhewsthe principal that ai-e ihtiojircedi
John Bul'« the Kingdom of i ng;*r,d
His Mother, the Church cf
I?is Wife, the Parhair.c. r
, I lis Sifter Peg, theChm chof Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom of France
HjttMiftieft, the Old Con'Aitution
Hi&*new Wife, riie National Rcprefentation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spair.
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the Frencli llejmbiic
The Foreflers, the United btares of Amerh
Robert Lumber, 'Nc-w-Hair.pJhire
• John Codline, Ma(T:\eh'.ifetts
Humphrey Picw(hare,
Roger Carrier, Ilhqde liland
Veter Bull Frog, New-York
Julius pee far, Kcw-Jerfey
William Broadbrim, Penfifylvania
Caffimar, Delaware
Walter l-ipewood, Virginia
Hit Qraucllon, George W-afhingtp-n
Peter Pitch, Korth Carolina
Charles Indigo, soutk Carolina
George Trusty, Georgia
Ethan Greeawopd, Vermont
Huut«r Longknifc, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves
Rats, Speculators
P4nther Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
gj* This popular and entertaining satirical histo
ry of Amtwica is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel
knap, It has/a graat (h ire of originality and a
bounds with geriuine humoift*. It is continued
down to the present time, and thofe
late political tranfailions which have caused so
uiuch uneasiness in America.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. i 6,
South Second Street, and No. j'o, Marke* ftjaet.
June 26. §
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editiotis.
H. if P. RICE, Booksellers.
No. iS, South Second, and No. 50, Market flreet,
HAVE just received by the lrte arrivals Irom
London and Dublin, theiv fprir.g importa
tion, confiding of a variety of the latuft and mod
approved J aw Books, whieto, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the mod exteufive collection iv
er offered for sale in this country. They th-:cfore
beg leave to notiy, that from the nature cf their
counecSicnsin Dutrlin, they are enabled to felllri;h
editions (as they have hitherto at 11* very
*!oweft prices. The following are ainonjj the latest
publications.
Vefcy, "juti'rs Reports in Chancery, 2 iv.l.
Peake's Cases at Nill Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hsrdwicka ; b'loyer's ProAefs
Pradlice in the Ecclrfiaftienl Courts ; BartonV
Tr«a»ife 011 a Suit in liquiry ; Tidd's Pradice of
the Sourt of King's Bench in Personal Anions, 1
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, ij vols. London edi
tion. r
H. and P. Rice e*pefl t» receive by the fii'H ar
rival from New-York the 6th. vol. complete of
and Earl's Reports, the id part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, anda number of
new publications.
June 16.
The History of Pennfylvania^
BY ROBERT P*C ».),
IS now in the press, and will be publiftied,
with all convenient expedition, by ZICHA- |
piiH Hooi.»oH, jun. No. B'i, Chefnut-ftreet,
PhiltdelJjhia, where fubferiptions will continue
lo be received, ami at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed projx sals, until the
work is ready for the fubferibers.
July 18. lawtf
The Partnerfliip,
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN W Company,
is difiblvcd by mutual consent. All persons
having any demands against the said House are de
sired to render the lame to T. B. Freeman ; knd
thsfe indebted to ihe House are delired to make pay
ment to him—By whom biifinefs will in future be
carried on,at his Store, No. 39, South Front-street.
Augifjl 7. eod4w
Richard and James Potter
HAVF. removed tkeir Counting House to No.
4j, South Fifth-ftrset. f
August ». w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijburgb Carlijle,
Sbtppenjburgand Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requested to take notice, that'
the partnerfliip which has sos some lima ful
filled bctwesn Mathias Slough of Lancader, and:
William Oeer, is now diflolved ; but, not as M..
Slotgh infinuatesto the public without just cause
as will more fully appear by a letter on thefuh-i
jeib from M. Slough to W. Gecr, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which ii not now deem
ed neeeflary. Auy gentleman who wilhes to be
more circumdantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may havei
theperufal «f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not \V.
Geer is not perfectly juftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the profecutton of the
Stage eonVeyanee from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generout support the
public were plenfed to confer on the firft effort in
this bufinefs,\*S liam Oeer, in conjun&ion with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
toprofecute a'nd carVy it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a 2cal to oblige the pub
lic can poflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
thofj wno wiib to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their l'eats at
George Weed's, the %n of the White Horse,
Markit Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancader, Harrifburg;
Carlisle and Shippeufburg. The fare as hitherto
edablifted.
For the further accommodation ot the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the. house
of Samuel Kldcr, in Harrilburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
and return from thcoce and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so tbat paflengers dedined tor
I.ancafter or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancader, Jan. 27, 1 797'
N. B. Tkis Line ai Stages darts from the
house of William Ferroc, in Lancader, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the weftwafd; and from the house of
wr. Samuel Ehd.r in iJarriiburg every Wedncfc
day morning, on fame evt'iiics* arrives at Pa
trick Cocbr.r.-'s in Shippenlburg, and returns
from thence on every Ihurtoay: perjorraing tlie
fame routine daily a> in iit tour lrcm Philadel
phia. n' wf
Ad*«itUciner.t.
On lira soth cr November next in A!; x.wdria *■
('>«!) .; court day), vvi!l be exnofed for f ie,one
or more Covering Jack*, .-.-ad several yoiiii K
oi)if of different ages and ; ail djfcoideJ
from Royal Gift {in import-d Jach .Tom Spain,
;.ipvvarjfs" of 15 hands higli). <»it of irr.po.t.d '
Jinnies from jjalta", full 14 hands blah.
The terms of file (pr if tiot fold, of letting
them f>r ore or more seasons to co«r) will
then be.nude known : .the payments may be j
toade easy to the purchafor, hoi*! a'nd feci.rity
being given for 'lie amount, witnistcreft.
At the fame time ?nd pW, futid-y
Hcrfisand Mares will hi offered for iale. The
latter having been to the Jacks, are probably t
with foal. ~ p
JAMES ANDERSON, Manager. • g
ount-Vernon, £ r ,
September, 1797. ) :aw4\v p,
InfUrafttfe of the State £
of Pennsylvania. n
Oilpe will b® kept until fur'ker notice at
a_ the School House in Gcrmuntown. The
Company full retain the room in Chefnut, above- 0
Seventh street, where a ptrfon will attend to re
ceive and give answers to applications, every day
from 10 until I o'clock. %
Sept it,. d^tiawtF
Thomas Armat and Son,
OF PHILADELPHIA,
INFORM their aad the jiublic, they
have removed a part cf their merchandize to
Wilmington : Also, they Have their store open in* v .
the city. At either place their friends can be sup- s
plied, and therr orders cureftiiiy attended to 1
3y the Cutiiberl'and, from Hull, they have re
ccived a handlome affartmenb of articles, suitable v
to the approaching fcafon ; and tjpcA to add to it
by oth€r fall fhlps.
Should the frcknefs prevail in ths central part of "
the city, that branch of their bufincfs will be re* "
uioved to Germantowu.
£s* The communication by poll is open and re>- "
gnlr.r as ufutl.
Sfpt. SB. thrf
TO BE SO LP VKRT CBEAPI \
A Light WAGGON alrpoft new, with a frame— e
and a pair of harness collars) lut nffvex t
bevn Hied—price 90 polls.
Ifbfft 16"hands higli, (even years old—-and a
new chair, witt a falling top and harhefr— 320.
Luqu-rc No.^3*; Marku-f.rcct ;
Aq&lifl- 2\. dlu»
Fi,rfaleprto be let on grounJ
• rent,
Lot of Ground ;
SITUA"® on the north-eaftcorner of Wal- 1 '
nut.&i. Jifth streets, fronting the State* !
House figure. This lot is fifty-one feet front i '
on Walnut lireet, and one hundred and thir teen j |
feet ar.d an half on Fifth fttee' ; there are at j
present twofinall two llcry brick houses, and a j
number of fniall tenements thereon.
Alfa, for Sate, \
Two three story Brick Houfei
V/ith convenient stores, wharf, &c. fitnate on
Water-ilreet, between Mulberry and SAflafras
llreets, cfantaining in front on Water llreet fit
ty-fpur feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward nine:y-five fe«t, then widening to tie
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thd'e h»ufes
ave the copveniance of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flo.ur fa<flor,or others who
may have occafeon for ftorage'of poods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable torms
for cash. For further information anplv to the
printer.
July 31. • m&w:f
TOBEB O L D,
Andyijftjjlon given immediately ,
AI.AkGli two llory fcrick House, handsomely
fituatbd in "Prinoeco'n, There are four rooms
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a ranee of hack buildings <1 feet in
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. 1 here is a pump
in the yard, an kitcl'.eti garden, at the
farther end 6f which are a carriage house and two
Oablcs, one' of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two ftablcs for 27 horses. The hc;il
thinefs and pleasantness ot its situation, and the
number *t' genteel and agreeable families in and
near tl>£ town, render it a deCrable rctrceat for a
gentleman from the city. The commodroufuefs of
the house, it* central position, and the largeness of
the stables, make it every way suitable for a tavern, for
which it has always been confiderd as a capitil
ft and. Inquire on tjte premises. -of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. is- 19 —dtwaawtf
, City of VYaihington.
. SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Fedtrctl Gity.
A magnificent dwelling-house so,ooo dollars,
& caih 30,000, afe i 0,000
1 ditto 15,000 A ci r n 15,009 40,00f
l ditto & cash rs,ooo.' 30,000
t clitlo lojooo £c caili 10,000 30,000
1 fli(f(S" ?,600 k taih <,OOO ijj.ooc
1 ditto .5,000 & ea?h 5,000 10,000
1 c aft prize of ro.ooo
1 do. s,oopeach,are • 10,000
re tiv>. 1,060 - - «0,000
jo do. 500 - - to, 000
06 do. 100 - - rO,OOO
aio da. 50 - - io.oco
400 dt>. 15 - - 10,000
1,000 do: jo - ao,ooo
15,00© do. 10 - 150,000
16,739 Prizes.
33,»6i fllaaks.
5c,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,00s
N. B. Tofavour those w'l3 may tatc a rvaa
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the l «3t drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but orti : 4
And approved notes, fecu»i»g payment in either
mon«y or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, Will
be received sot anymunberinot lefsthan 30 tick
ets. I
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpcci:r.en of
the private buildings to be ercdlcd in the City oi
Washington—Two benutiful deiigps ar- already
leleifid'for the entire ironts on two oi thepublir
from drawing' it ispropofed toerecl
twocentreaud 'imrcmMt as soon as ptxf
fible after this- lottery u.fold, and to conyey them,
when to the fortunate adventurf-rs, in
rheinaniKT dcfcribedin the fchcme for tHe Hotel
Lottery. A'nete deduflion of five percent, will
be made to defray the necelTary espenfes of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intemkd for the National Uiilverilty, to
be erected within the city of V- Mfhington.
The realfecuritiesgivrn lor the payment of the
Prizes, are held.by the President and two DireA
otsof the Kanh of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLOB GET.
.§„ Tickets may be had at the Bank nt Colsm-
Ua ; of fames Wei 8t Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Giiman, Eo.lon : of John Kf>p!:ir.', Richmond ;
'and of WUs, Loopfr 11 irry.
mwf
This Day Published,
.An<ito be fold by WILLIAM YOUSfG-, aomar of
Second ?.nd Chefnut ftrcets,
Price 2,-olbs of a V'Jlor i E
Obferbations on certain Documents
fJorttained is N'o. V :ind VI of
" The HKlory of the United States for
the year 1796," A
In which the cuof speculatiov aeainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, *
Late fc£Cßi£TAiiY of the Treasury, is FULLY
REFUTE p.
WRITTEN Bf HlAisF. LF.
Th's publication • prfelcnts a ccncifc statement
of the bale meansprailil'ed by the Jacobiprof the
United States to asperse the chara&ers of those
who arc confidcred ag hoftihi to their difor-
relieves. It also cchtsiirs" the cr>r
rcfpondence between Mr. Hamilton and \luiTrs.
Moorue, and VcnabV, on the fub
je£t of thedocumenu aforefaid, and fcrie?. of let
ters from James Reynolds and hi§ wiYc to Mr. Ha
milton, pioviug beyon * the pollibiliry of a dMibt,
that the conneciion between him and R« ynolds,
was the reiuit of a daring confpimcy on tlie part
of the latter and his afiociates to extort money.
& A diCcount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ot whole file purchafoa, for
cash. Orders to bd addrefled to Mr. Ycwng.
No. 188.
Di/lriß of Pennjylvania, to wit :
. , DE If REMEMBERER, that on the
s ; _Jj twenty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Fenno, of the said dif
tri<ft,hath depofitedin this office the titlfe of a book,
the rijht whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit: —
" Observations on certain documents contained -1
" in Ko. V. and VI. of "The History of the Uni- J
" ed States for the year 1796," in which tha charge a
" of fpcculatiort, against Alexander Hamilton,late e
" Secretary of the Treafury,'is fully refuted— f
" Written by 'himfelf " , ' r
In conformity to 'he ad of thcCorf.rcfs of the , v
Ucited State?, entituled, " An a A fo<' thecncour- | t
agement of learning, by fccuring the copies of j c
maps, charts and books to the authors and propri- ]
etdrs of such copies, durrtlg 'h« times tharein men- a
tioncd." c
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
CUrh QJ the fa'flriß of Pennjylvania. >1
July 17. w(w b
The Inhabitants of the Difiri£t \
of Southwark, 2
RK informed that a Coachee is provided, to be
; L kept at the oftice, the north cast
c«rner of Front anti Almond {freets, where the Z
fri»hds of those sick persons who desire to be re
! moved to the City rlofpltal, arc requeued to make
application—Also, a Hearse will be kipt in readi- j
j ncfo for the Removal of tflie dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
\ N.8.-r—The Poor, who wish to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may be furuidied with orders
by applying as aflovfe. ' Jivg. J
William Blackburn, ;
LOTTERr and BROKER'S OFFICE '
No. 64 south Second-J.reet.
TICKETS ipthe Canal Lottery, No. 11, wLich
commsnced drawing the ayth May, FOR
SAI.E. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as th* drjWing advances, particularly onat
ceunt of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, oti the Vast day ot
drawing.
Check Books kept soT examination and regifter
iog, in the Canal, No. a, City of Wa&iugton, No.
Z, and Paterfon Lottories.
Also, titfcets fbrfale i:i tTie Sdliuy!!-'ilsli*lrty|e'aiiil
Perktomen Bridge lotteries, whicJi will begin
drawing in thecourfeef the funimcr.
The buficeft of a Broker in all kinds of S»®ck,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &f- &c. trir.faded -with the
utmo'ft attention.
June 2 tu3:'f
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By KOBEIIT CAMI'BELL & Co.
No. 40 Sotitli Second "flieet,
[Price 31 CentsJ
A View of the Cau/es mid Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May 15 §
~S~TATE TRIALS.
Sold b W. Young, Bookseller, No. 58, South Se
colld-dreet,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acquit
;il of Francis Hopkinfon, Judge of tl.'C Court of
admiralty, and John Nkholfon, Comptroller (icn
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in.boards, j
dollars.
W. Yodng hi»«nr sale, a general affort-nentof
1 Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the padk
-1 ege, well aflorted, atid enNtled to the draivback if
s |n'v 7 —*
For Sale,
Thai wellln£<wn place, filled Vjndz-crifz's
5 FFRIV,
, Nefhani'my creek, id niiles from PIIU3-
1 ladelphia, on the New post road,
; containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
-1 premises are a large two lloiy stone house occu
j pied asatvern, and a good one story f'one kit
-1 chen, a large frame ftaWe with a good threshing
a floor, and lomc out buildings—alio a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
0 this plac.f is a h)o£ elegant situation. fora gentle- ]
man s feat, commandingb view of the KiffiStn
' iny to itsjunflion wiih the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jersey ihore. »t has the privilege
- of cne half the toll received from' the bridge,
e For terms apply to the Subfcribcr,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
r y;v i.i. 3taw;f.
1 ~QOI.UMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
r -» H.S. GROOMBHsDGJi vvith much pleas-
II iVi ure and rcfpeifl, Returns htr sincere ac
- knowledgcment for the liberal encouragement
flje has received during, four years refiden=e in
■' Philadelphia ; and allures her friends ami the
' public, so far from intending to decline her
-7 fchoo'l, IKe ha-i laade a luperior arrangement for
Jf the more convenient acco'mmortntion of her
' scholars, —vEvery branch of ufci'i.l and polite
" education is particularly to by Mrs.
'' Grqombridge and maftiis exvcii,ing in tueir
.1 rcAiefHyeprpfefiions.
11 Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets,
r- June sth, 1797. Jtmltf
The fituatiwt i 6 perftflly healtlty ; andipade
0 more agreeable by an extensive garden, ar.d lot
of ground adjoining the house.
e . Published,
.t And to be hid of Messrs. Do 1 ion, Camj>be!!,Rice,
Cflry, and the other pricipai Bcekfc.iers in tSe
city,price one dollar, twir.ty-five cent»,in bcarcs^
1- New Views of the Origin of the
' Tribes and Nations of America.
Ey BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON,
Jur.c'io.
Rofs tsf Simfdu,
HAVE FOR. SALE
f Hogfliead?,
•ExceVUnt Coffee in-< Tlcrce% and
' C. Barrels.
A (mall parcel of nice cocoa fa ha<?s
* fesv puncheons Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior Tencriifee jvine, old and in Madejrapipe*
An invoice of jewel»ery and hosiery to be fold by
the package
A few hampers ol best abeefe,
jujy *?• dtf.
5 he Subscriber has for Sale,
A large a/Tortnient as India Muflias,
coarse and fine
Tndia Calicoes
Sooty Romalls
B'foe Cloths and Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue re&'and GilU Hand leer ebtffs
An invoice of Irish Linens and Slieetiags, well
affortcd
A box of Diapers
Silk Umbrella*
Two boxes of fine Spicei, cotain'mg Nutrß*g«*
Mace and Clones
Black Pepper of firft quality
EaCt India Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wine
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimstone
Mordecai Lewis.
Au<y,H rt. -}a\"lrri
Higgins' Specific
FO* THB '
PREVENTION AND CURE OF THE;
re.LLOW FEFER.
I? VF.R since this disease made fucli ravage in this
_j city and New-York, the author lias turned hit
attention to its causes and cure.—The result of his
! er.quiries.has convinced him that the reason why so
| few persons recover from Ltj.attacV«, are fr»m its
: not being well underfiood, and the confequeni
I wrong method taken to core it. He is pcrfuaded
! that the exceSve bleedigt:* and mercurial reatmest
| of the Faculty is highly injurious and that the on
| ly rations! mode of treatment ishy theufe of proper
! acids. Co"rvinc«d of this he offers his Sjxiific at a
| cwtain remedy, if used according to the <iiieJ(ions.
To be had in boftlas, at ore dollar each, of the
invsntor Grc. Higgim, Cherry firecr, two doors a
buve Ninth street, (late manager of Jaetfoo aad
Go's Medicine Warehcufe, l.ordon); by J. lit
bUn: t No. *56 ; fV. Griffith. No. I7y, 'T. J't.frta, No.
j 21, South Third fire it, T. Stiff, No. r;,Neiv llreet,
near Vine Qreat, and 'j■ Gaits, Mo. $6, Race street.
Aug. 25. tilths
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Jufl received, by W«. Gmrriths,No. 1 jy.Soutb
3ecoad-flreet, v. frefc lupply of
Genuine Bal/arn of Honey,
AMedioine invented by thi late Bir John Hill
(who knowledge as aßotanift frocured liim '
the appellation of the LinnEus of Britain) and is
•onfldered in Eitgland as a certain anrr for the above
complaints; it is also 01 Angular efficacy in the
Hooping Cough,
| It may also be had fetail of W. A. Stokes, Nd.
61, South Seiond street, and T. Stif*, s,j,Kew
ftr«et, in bottles at 75 cents each.
Wll. SRimTHS having observed the happy ef
fefl of the medicine, (several cases of tnrcs fcsv
ittg come within his own knowledge) and the great
demaCd for it has induced him to order a largo
supply, a part of which he has just received.
_ Augvjt 3. la.wry
30 Dollars Reward.
RAM Cn»M»<|*y ?»<**■■, -indented Sf»jw
vants,GifS?rd Dally, a mukitto boy, about 17
years of age, a Aim light built*a&ive fellow, can
read and write,live feet seven or eight inches high*
has a heavy count'„nancs ; had on a ftsltiaa caatee
and trowfers, ?. high crowned hat, fine flioes 1
Allan Mellon*, ?. black man, about 24 years of
age, five fcr.t seven or eight inches high,a thick.set
cltnvfy built fiilfow, -particularly about the breech;
hauon a fairoi'sbluc jacket lined with fwanficin,
dark frtiped vest, fuftiau trowfers, high crowned
hat, coarse {hoes, &c.; each of then had fevdral
Ihirts aod several other cloathes with them. !hir
ty Dollars wilj'fce paid for the runaways, or 15 dol
lars for each, and reafonahle charges,ok tltliy&iisig
them at No. 54, North Tliird-ftreet.
The black fellow is about a yeer frona Lewii
Tin the County of Sussex, ft\te of Defa
watv, and ha» taken the boy withl^n.
J u1 y 31. mtu&f.-jw
or RENTED,
ALAStGF. 3 Story Brick Haute, on the
South 'fide of Filbert flreet, between
Eighth antl Ninth, lately oceupicd as the Bur
-1 veyor General's Office.
' 'riic Building is ,16 feet front and 35 feet detp,
th/lnt 110 feet det p, with the privilege of a nine
( feet wrde Alley extending the whnie length op
the Jet, to a thirty feet wide Couft for Carr!*gp»?
. to turn in. The House is not plrftered, and
maybe turned either into rne, or two dwelling
■ Huufa. It is (nitable for a !arj>e Manufd<9ery,
or would make a good Tavern. Iromedittfc
) pofiVffion will lie given,
'Apply to Wo. in, Cliefnut-Srreef.
AHfr.ll. c<id4t.
1 Musical Injlrument Mantifa£lor^ y
Na. 167, Arch Strict.
. T TARPER.harpfichord,grand, portable graiil>
rr Jli f:d>loard, pier table and fqusuv. piano fcrtfe
f makt rfroß London, returns thanks to his frierxfs
n and the public, for their libetal encouragement*
and hopes that by his ailiduity and attention toes"-
ery branch of his bufmefs, to ireri; a aontinuaiKf
of their favors. Piano fertes made on th« ntwrlt.
and moll approved plans, with prdals, pate;",
e fweil, and French harp flop, which he fluteta
himfelf will ue found ci; ir:al by unprejudiced
jailgt'ssto be equal if not fv. verier to ar.y irapcrtv
fd, .ad twenty per cent cheaper. Any ir.ltru
_ m: T,t purchri'iftl of him, if sot approved of in
twelve mouths, he will er.chaage.
N. 2. All kinds of iVlafical 111ftrutr.ent6 rr.ade>,
• un.'d, and repaitei with the greatest accnrie.y,
dispatch, and cn the mull re.ilor.sble terms, tut
readymoney o,hiy.
it Second lucd I'iano Fcrtej t=ken in eschapge.
R May «. * 3cini.
:!•, Forty Dollars Reward.
"" O A"N away from, the fuhferiber oh the fee
•I" IV ond day of this iiift. July, a Mulatto Maw,
:e mm-d VVifl Bowzef, »l.'out fort y years of age,.'
s. five ieet seven or ejgfct inches higl', rather
if chunky made ; had e.i when ha went away, jl.
tlratyqblortd cloth coat, Itriped purple trowl'en
and jacket. It is probable he will change hit
cleat lies, as he tool: a number with him. The
!e f a ,d f t H o v "formerly belonged to Mr. Charle*
31 ISlake of this, place ; and it is expedH-d he lias
mide tgwards J-ones's'Neck, in the Delaware
—Any person apprehending the fisid fel
low, and securing him so that ! carpet .him a-
e > pain, Cull receive tl:e above reward if taken
le out of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
s ' rhe coar.ty, and all reafotiable charges if bre't
e hoaie.
JESSE REED,
Quien Ana's Coualy, Maryland.
July 3-