of tfje MtllttlJ ak» PMladelpßM Daily Advertiser.'
Nv.itsvx 1644 j
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRT GOODS.
■C 'Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. ji6>
Hand iv > Front-ilreet,
'J \ Afternoon—F<x>cuvan & Co. No, 6j
' South Frrmt-ftreet.
C Forenoun—John Connetly, Old Crtr
«■ /v \ Ao&ion, No. 73 foufh
- J - y Afcer-aoon—William Shannon, No.
C. High-flreet.
K - n
17-ii fi~ (Forenoon —Edward Fox..
rhurfday | Afternoon _ Jokn Connelly.
p ■ / I Foftmoon—William Shannon.
rl • y j Afternoon—John Connetly.
S*fV>rd/rf Afternoon—-PettM- Reufon.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
j If not before disposed of -at private sale)
I \M Monday the hrtfcdayof January next, at fv*
o'clofk in the evening, ac the Merchants' Co
ffee HfHifc, in PiiiJadel-phra, Twenty-Six Thoufond !
Seves Hundred and -Eighty acres of LAND, in the'l
»Siate of New-York, between the northern bounds •
of Prnnfylviariia and the Su'quehanna, now, or lateJ
in the townships of Hamdca and Warren, and coun- j
ty of 'Montgomery. One fourth of the purctafe ,
rtoncy to be peid at the time ol faie ; for the refidue-j
cf edit of one, two and three months* will fce given,
OU intefeft and good fccurity.
D-c j. 3taw?S.
v i'o Sold at Public Vendue,
Of If not before difpafed of At private sale)
1$ Monday the Hrlfc day of Janujry next, at fix
o'fleck in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
Wv«fa, T<* PniMlelphia, Forty Thoufrnd Nine Han
4jed and Thirty-Nine acres i»f LA MO in <>i™
4pl}nt\L Commonwealth-os Pennfylvaiua,nn rha Wa
ters of f2h and Wheeling Cn-ck, jmUru Mild Run.
Tbefc lands arc fertile, well timbered and abound in
coal; they vueoe Jfoldlen yratt ago far ss. per acse,
patente > Mnly in 1787, except 3,709, whtoli were pa
tented in 17Q2 } the greveft parffof them were sur
veyed i<i 1503.
This trail is between the Ohio and Monongsheb,
very coivtenieotto water aarrtage—abaut to miles from
the town of Wafbington, and from 14(0 16 frcm the
villages of Gteenlburgh and Wheel ing. One fourth
of the punchafe money is to be paid, at the time of
■fclr i for (tie 1 aiidue a credit of ono, t-wo, and three
moot hi V*ill be given, on iniereft and good feciirity.
Dec. 1. j3tawtj
~ NOW LANDING,
from on board the ship Farmer, Lying at Harjier'a
Wharf,
Claret in hhds.
Ditto in cales
Smterne Wine in do.
frt»r Sale, apply to
f John Whitefide & Co.
No. f3B, Jarket-ftreet.
Also, en band,
Botrrdeaux Brandy in jjipe*
Kne old Antigua Rum
A few tales «f Claret, d a fcporier quality,
•aovember 34). S
To be Sold,
1 The time of a Negro Boy,
About fifteen years of age, has seven years yet
ro fetye ; he is an excellent hotife servant, adlive
i rid tu y. Enquire of the Printer.
December ». dlw
•T*o Gentlemen who intend spending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114. corner
of Sixlh and Race Streets. The situation
•agreeable —and vicinity has been free £rooi the late
contagion. Oct. 11 —dtf
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MltS. GROOMBKIDGE with much pleal
ure and r«fi>eft, returns hfT sincere ac
knowledgement tor the lilwral encouragement
fbe hat received during four years refidense i*
Philadelphia ; and afluret her friends and the
public, so far from Intending to decline her
Ichool, Ihe has madea superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite
•d«cati»B is particularly attended to by Mrs.
CTroamfaridgo and matters-enceHit j tn their
,rcfpe<3ivCfrofeffinns.
Corner.pf Spruce and Eleventh Streets,
jfune fth, 1797. . simftf
The lit nation is perfeilly healthy ; awdmade
ir.ore agreeable an extensive garden and lot
ground adjoining the house.
This Day Publiflied,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, tornerof
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price 3-Btbi cf a Billar,
Observations on lertain Documents
Contained.i* No. V and VI of
■" The Hiltoiy of the United States for
the year 1796,"
i Tn which the cuarob or speculation against
i avexander Hamilton,
Late Sec azT aa v of the Treasury, is EULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BT HIMSEII.
This publication preferts a concise statement
of the bale means prailil'ed by the Jacobins of the
United States to affierfe the characters of thofa
psrfonswho arc confideredas hostile to their difor
.ranizing schemes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Meflrs.
Mojiroe, Muhlenhurgh and Venable, on the fub
jefit of the documents aforefaid, and a ferics of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the poilibility of a doubt,
that the cSnneclion between him and Reynolds,
was the rel'ult of a daring conspiracy on the part
<.f the Inter and his alleviates to axtort money.
rt" A ilifcoußt of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ol wholesale purchaf. rs, for
■ .cash* Orders to be to Mr Yoi/Ntt.
slugiili 25.
Landing,
From on board the fliip Edward, at Walnut
ftreet Wharf,
I.ondon particular Madeira Wine,
of a superior quality, Por Sale by the fubferiber.
Robett Andrews.
rtovember %. eotf
" TO BE SOLD,
Or Exchanged far Property in the Country,
That three story Brick House,
' No. 157, north Third flrcet. Apply at theef- .
lice of this Gazette. r.ev. l)~ w&s+w j
- PHILADEL P-H1 A:
For Londonderry,
The American Ship
BOSTON packet,
Coppertmwait, Master,
lymg at Mifflin'i Wharf,
near Vine-flrect—Has elegant afci mtaoiatiotisfor
pafTcngeri—will fail, weyj)»r permitting, on or
about the icth in (I. hiving; ail her cjrgo enptged
ready to go on board*. For paftage only, apply to
the captain.
Smith £j* Ridgway,
No 4i North Watrr to
[fctac Harvey, Jun.
No. 5, South Water street.
December x ' Slot
tor Amfterdani,
E*jl|||L E d'W AV D,
James Wickham, Mafler,
to fail in a few days, having two
1 thirds of her cargo already engaged, and near
ly on board. For Freight or Paflage, apply to
the Ma (let on board, at Hampton's wharf, or to
John Donnaldfon,
' No. aa, Wakrat-ftreet.
THE STIVP
COMMERCE,
Captain Richard
Rrom Liverpool is now
at Morris s wharf, near the Drawbri4ge, where
owners of .goodson freight, will p'.eafe fj.eedily to
fend their permits. Said vdjttl wtll dircAJy after
take in freight on very Id«w term* for JJofton. Ap
ply to the captain, or to
Isaac Harvey, juK.
N». 5, South Water Street.
A few tons of ft one, or sand ballast wanted.—
Apply ■>> above. November zj—§tot.
For Amsterdam,
F A R "ME R,
p */• John M'Cm.i.om, Mafler .;
¥^-^^ WILLJ " a! i ' n a ew t * ie
eater part of her eargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pas
sage, apply to tie mailer on board, at Wrinw
street wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is Landing, out of the said Ship, from Boar
deaux, and For Sal?,
Qaret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
CUret i« cases, of a superior quality
Fentiniac, )
Bauteme, > Wines in cafe#
LuaSle, )
Prunes in boces
Bjovemby a -
For Liverpool,
Tfx copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
Captain SrLAI Swaw.
A proportion of her
XX cat,go being readj to go on
board, h ftpefficd to fail on br about Sunday, the
3d of Decmiber.
For Freijdit or FalTagc. apply to the Captain oa
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to
PHILIP NICKLIN if Co.
November in. §
For bavannah, in Georgia,-
THE SHIP
Saily Butler,
Captain Chisholm,
A new vessel. with excellent
' »c crnnmod atiorrs for palTengers—
Satis on the foth of December. F»*r Freight or
Paflage, apply to ROSS £s* SIMEON.
Who bave f rf,
A small invoice of SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
nmjember IR.
Rundle Leech,
Have just received, and have for Sale, at no. 9,
Walnut llreet,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT
Do. heft house CD A LS
-Queens' WARE in cases, assorted
Bourdeatrx BRANDY of an excellent quality
Do. CLARET in cafife, do.
THFY HAVE Jl?0
For SALE or CHARTER,
hfmwfcA THE BH,P
PEGGY,
Burthen lis tons, in excellent condition, and
may be sent to sea with little expmce or delay.
LIKEWISE,
WILLTAM,
Burthen 201 tons,
-nrrvember t6. / $
For Sale or Charter,
MTwo Brothers,
Lying at Curling's wharf,
an excellent U»gle dcck'fl -velTel, burthen about
1600 barrels—not twelve months old, and in
corafleat order. For terms apply to the m.tfter
on board, or to
Joseph ■ Anthony Iff Co.
Nov. diw.
—— r — 1
Fort and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By (hip Edward, from Mndeira, and B *tfey and
Peggy, froTi Oporto, in Pipes and Hogsheads,
For file l'v
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFF* RS FOR SALE,
tTbe Ship
A M / T r,
Four thousand barrels burthen,
in excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo—about three years old.
LIKtWISK,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 barrels, reajy also to receive a car
go—and a qumtity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Just landed from the above vefle's at South street
I wharf. eoim. Nov./.
By John Fen no, N c 119 Chef nut Street.
For Londonderry,
THE BIUCAKITIHE
s v k k r,
w 't."AM Wuin ek, Maler. j
ftrong jjeod veffrf, aJiout t\ro J
hundred tons, to fail with all convenient ('peed, a
Itreat part of her cargo engaged—J row lyisg at
Wdlirtg and Francis's whaif. Por freight or pa/-
sage, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRJN;
"Laazfmikrgtr's ivbfy-f.
Who wants to Charier.
A Vessel of about thfcc* "huutked jtoos.
nov 18. ' 4 $
For Sale or Charter,
The Shoui
GOOD HOPE,
Will carry about laoo ban^:ls r and
j ia ready to take in a cargo, i- w terms
•"***"■ apply to
Pragers Zif Go.
No. 151, South Secood-Ureet.
Who have for fak—prir.v, St, Croix &ugar
Rtirn, J.XaiUira, Lifl)oo, au» T«aerifle wine. j
November 7. dtf.
Philip Nicklin tef Co.
HATE POk SALE,
At their Stores on Walnut street Wharf, p
HavannahSugars, whiteandbrown
2J hhds. Jamaica do.
JOSO pieces of broad Nankeens
Itnper al Tea, in quarters and eightSs of chefla
Quickfuv<r iu tulw
Madeira Wine in pises at»d hojllieads
Tencriffe Wine in pipes
Old red Fort Wtne inhogfhead,
Mo. ,to 8 "
• cases of ManchelL. „, .ds, conftlimg of
Mullinets, Ginglian«,Tliiekfctt», C-.-iirnj-., Jtc.
100 crates Queen.' Ware, aJWted
Nails, assorted
Bla-lt quart Bottles
YeflowOcrein cate
A quantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, &c.
100 quarter calks Gun Powder
7bey have atfifcr XjtLE or CHARTER,
TheJhip MOLLT, burthen 340 tons, a
good vefleC and completely fitted.
The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
rels, may be ready for sea in a few days.
The whole of the to be seen at
Walnut llreet Wharf. § *». 10.
TO LET, !_ ~
A Front Room, suitable fer an
Office or Counting house, with a Urge Cellar.
Any person who may rent the above, may (i| re
quired) "be accommodated with Board and Lodg
ing in the fame house. Enquire at no. 180, South
Front, near Piae ftroet. v
Decani btr 1.3. }aw3<r
Uriah Smith,
No. ao, north Third street—has mi sale,
A neat and general aflortiatnt of ,
Broad Cloths,Kerfeymeres,Napt
aad Drab Coatings. alio,
A variety of Gentlrmens' faftiionable faivcy Waift
eoating, silk Hosiery, &c.
December 5. *eodiw
Chocolate and Mufiard,
•f a superior quality maa»£«<fl*ir<d,
GINGEiI and Vtpper, gtonnd ; (belled or
pearl Barley; Philadelphia Porter, B««",
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton ar.il Burton Ale i
London Porter ; red, Port and Lijboty Wina,
l'uitable for exportation or h»me cohfuinption.
The highest price given for Mallard-Seed.
Also for sale, A quantity of Racking and
common Baizes, a variety of c olors ; a bale of
Futtiaad, Shawls, fee, for falel>v
JOHN HAWORTH,
No. 98, sooth Proiit-Hreet.
Nov. 17. m.icih.t.ij.
Landing this day.
From on board th« fchomier Two Daa
tel Crawley, Master,
80 hhds. and , J amaica RUM,
l A pipes ) J 7
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer Son.
wvemher 9. J
James £sf Richard Smith,
TAKE the liberry of informing their friends
and the public, that they Ijave removed their
(lore to No. 54, South Front Jlreet, next d«or to Ed
ward Fox's Auction Room, where they have at
this time for fele, a large and general aflortfnent of
European iff Eaji India Goods,
"Many of which are just impofted in ths Clothier,
Williaip Penn, &c. Jcc.
0f1.J7. ®
NOW LANDING, .
At South-street Wharf,
7be Cargo of the Ship Concord\
CaptßHi Thompson, from Bnfavia.
About 300 tons firft quali-y Java Coffee (the
whole having been fele&ed)
80 tons Java Sugar, in eaniflers and hags
10 tenures of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and .Cloves
FOR MIS sr
PETER BLIGHT.
Who also offers For Sale,
Just landed from (hip Amity, from Jamaica.
205 hhds. Jamaica SngaT, and
170 do. do. Rum.
November a> d6«'
Canal Lottery —itfo. 11.
WILL commence drawing MdiVday, thrzoth
inft. Tickets for Sale irtthiiLottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURM's Lottery
and 3rokers OlMe, No. 64, South Secood-ftreet—
Tickets iu the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Tt"
Dmtan, where check books are kept lor regifler.
i:ig and examining in thele, the City of V. alhing
ton. No. 11. and Paterfoß Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be hail in most of the Lotte
ries authorifsd by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The business of a Broker, in buying and
felling ail Jciods of Public Stock and Securities,
difcounti-.g Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
La.'ds, Houf-s, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by Wm. BLACKBURN.
itcv mbir 15- §
FRIDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 15, 1797
FOR S'LE,
By JOHN MILLER, jun. fefCo.
No. 8, Ch»innt-ilrict,
One hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
' /.mongtt whichar',
Ourralis Mamotrdies
lialcas SannaS.
Cilltz fiSlts Tathia Coifac* _
Guzaies Eftlertics .... ,
Blue Cloths Caliches
fidampooi-s Romall Handkerchiefs
Amongst them are a great proportion of the
manulaxHures of Patra.
December I. 5
Imported in the brig Eliza,
Capt. Hastie,from Rourdeaux ;
Claret in ( ales of a faperior quality,
White Santtrne Wii.fe ia C^fes,
Olive Oil in ba&cta of i z bottles each, f
White andcelemredKid QljyQs,
do. do. Lilk. do. . J
A ftw pipes of Bour«i«au*-Brandy,
For Sale "by
JAMES 1 AYIMER, jon.
4 71 ,*sotith Wh<ii:«f«s.
Who has also far SaM y
A few qr. Cafks<Hd bharry Wiue.'
Dec. 5. _ _ -
For Sale by the Subfcriber^
10 bales CoHUs
40 Ho. B.ftas
It do. MamooJy
17 do. Chintz
7 do. Tookery
a do. Goraht
aj do.
3 do. Check Stripes
I do. Guztie
I box Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
if pipts fined particular Madeira Wihe, of
ttie vimmec nff. '— L -— ■
MORDECAi LEWIS.
December 5. 3«w4w
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. O. M. De La GRANGE,
No. ii« Walnnt-ftneet,
INFORMS those who wi<h to recur to the only
means of becoming perfect ia the French Lan
guage, that hehas just opened his Library, con
fiding of upwards of 1150 volumes, the hell cal
culated to afford either ufeful inftruftion, or plea
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
tn town.
w. «. All translations from and into the French,
Etrglifh and Spanilh Languages, executed with ac
curacy a»id dispatch. eoim »<*>. 15.
MUSIC.
J. L. LENZ,
R Teacher ot Vocal and inftrnmeatal Music,
STURNS his lincere thanks to the Ladies and
. Gentlemen, from whom he received a very
Hberalencouragement since his residence in this ci
ty, and refpe<Sfully informs hi,friends and the pub
liegonerally, that, in consequence St the requcft
of ibme of his {riends, he has opened a MuScal
School at hishouf® in Sprace Street No 174, where
he will teach on the Piano forte, yiokin Sec. &c.—
He deems it unnecejTary to enlarge upon the ad
vantage, the learner will derive from an inllituti
om of this kind; he will only lay, that attention
and scalane ctach oxcitod j«i an afftmWy, where
cumber, are io pursuit of the lame obj;£l. Ki«
airarnrcmirit is such, that an interference of the
the different fcxes will be avojded. Tlofe Ladies
and Gsntkmeii who lannot make it convenient to
ntKnd At his fcbool. he will wak «p«n at Their
houfes—AypJicKiiuit will be d<ao3<fally receiv
ed at hn house, whk.re bis terms aad further parti
culars may be known.
Dec. *lweod
Gcenteel Boarding & Lodging.
A Family ma}' Ie accommodated with a Draw
ing Room, two Bed Chambers, and fuuab'e
accommodation for servant,—at no si, north
Fonrth ftr;«t. , Dec. —*tts
Samuel I J leafants Csf Sons,
No. 74, South Oeccnd-fireet,
HAYE received a of SealonaWU GOODS,
which they are now opemng for sale, on
reafonabla terms. Ofl 17. —4W
All Feribns
Having any demands aga'nft the Ellate of the
late Captain George Irwin, are reqntfted to
bring ia their accounts piqperly attelted, on or,
before she ftrll day of January next f nfuing '
and those who are indebted to said eflate are so'
licited to make immediate payment to
SARAH IRWIN, Adminiflratrix.
Nov. 19 1797. 4
Mujical Instrument Manufactory,
167, Arch-street.
TO TFlfi LOr«RS OF HARMONY.
HARPER,
INFORMShi* friends and the public, that he has 1
now ready for sale, a few of his new invented,
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedals,patent swell, fonopahant and French harp •
(top, wuich for sensibility of touch, hrjlliancy of
tone, ftmplnity and durability of confirntflion, thr '
faperiority of which,he flatters himffetf, a iingle tri- 1
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—A, they 1
are ma: '.aflured under his immediate inlpeihon,,
of the very be?, seasoned materials, he can feU oil ,
reasonable terms for Cass. Inflrumants repaired,'
tuned, Sic.
N. B. Second band Piano Fortestaken in ex- .
change for new. \ |
november 18. tawimo.
Wants a place,
AS a Wet Nurie, a young woman, who can
be well recommended. Inquire in Eleventh
llreet,near Race-street. Nov. 17.
*eodi w.
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types —half worn.
Including laong Firimcr, alvout 400 weight, ia
jrood coiiditioo, and wou'd answer -the purpose of
a country printer as well as new.
F-nqU'reof the Printer. Nov. 30.
Att trying Duties cn Stamped Vellum
Parchment and Paper.
A FK'.V copi.s of the above a3 may be had aj
he Office of the Gaze'.'r of she L'nited States, No
119, Cbefnut-flreer. July 19:
JUST RECEIVED,
(via New-York)
, AND NOV OPENING, BY
George Dobson,
No «5, south Third (trcet,
An exteniive and general afibrtment of
HABERDASHERY, viz.
ikft Lotuion Galloons and Ferrets
Common do, do. Wcffle'd Bindings, afior*
MakeiftieVfupcr,patent ted colours
white chapel Needles Imperial, diaper, anti
Nuns Thread 110. 6to Thread Tapes
40, regularly ailorted V? hite Edgings
Lisle do.no. 130 to 500, Blaek nd coloured Chi
regularly alforced nefe Ribbands
Coloured do. , Sattin and figured do.
Black sewing Silks iSackVelvet, 1-4 to rid
Coloured do. and Twist Velvet & pelon Sattifcs
SiHc and cotton Wires French Cambrick
Do. d«. Ribbands Scotch do.
Moulds and Wires Plain gilt and plated
Black brulh Feathers Buttons
And a complcat aflbrtment of Goods, fait able
to the prdent and approaching ftafon, a? reduced
1 prices Dec. 6. dtf
THE PARTNERSHIP OF
Richard & lames Potter,
IS this day diflfolvcd.tiy mutual cciif.-nt. AH
persons indebted to the (aid firm, are rrgutfled
to pay tbe fame to either of the fubferibers; a: d
allJ>erfoA»-J»v:ng any (Jemands again!! them, are
requeUcd to fend their accounts for settlement.
RitlarJ Potter,
Jamci Potter.
December 9. . §
The Subscriber intends to make
application the ieacwal of a Certificate of a Share
in the Baok-ofthe United State#, iiandtng in the name
of A. B. No. SOO4, dated July ii, 1797, the fame
havjng been Jolt. ' JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond,
ROSS & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Cofias, and
a quantify of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in tag* and'boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, i RUM.
and Bengal J
' 300 casts RICE, r»d
■A parcel of fliip building RED CEDAR..
o<£l. 17. §
Mrs. GRATTAN,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of the City, that lhe propoies having
Four CONCERTS and BALLS during the winter.
Si* Dollars each Subscriber, for one Ticket of
admittance during the ieafon.
No Subscribers Tickets transferraVle.
Two Dollars afingle Ticket.
The Concert to begin at half pad fix, and the
Band to attend for the Ball at eigh*— the expenw
of which Mrs. Grattan engages to difchrargr.
The Concerts will begin as soon as th£ Band ar
rives from New York.
ijj" Subscriptions received, and Tickets deliv
ered at No. 191, Market ilrect.
November 79. §IW
For Sale by the Subscribers, >
Prime Rice in mil/ole emd half tierces
Bout deattx Brandy
Teneriffe Wine
MolaJJcs
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravtni Duck and one bo?/head of paint
bribes.
N. W y. Fra-x.tr.
No. 95, Sentb Front Street. '
A'of. 7■ dim
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL presents hit
most rcfpe.flful compliments to his farm
er employers and the citizens in general, and re
turns his mod grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful encouragemeut he has experienced Jo's;
tbefe twenty-five years past, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that, his fcliool is now
open, at his
Elegant Ball Room,
in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
WaJr.nt-Jtrerts. To begin at loin the morning
for young ladies, and h in the evening for yoang
jgrntlemen. ,
His firft Praflicing Ball will be to-morrow
evening, Saturday, the 9th inft.
Dec. 8. iawtf.
~~ FOR SJLE,
A Team of five excellent Horses,
with a Waggon and Gears. The Horses are all
young, strong, true to the draught, and capable
.■of hauling as great a weight as most in the coun
try. The V\'agg"n and Gears are ftroiig, arnl
in good order. Applvto ROBERT GREEN,
Weft Town, Chester county, or?;o
Thomas Fijher,
No. 141, S. Second Street, PMIa 'elphia
it mo. i, eod3vr*
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in ope vol. o&avo.
By William Young, Booifeller,
No. ja, Second flreet, the corner of Chefnut 11 reel,
(Price, in lourJi 67 1 » Cents J
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A VIE W.
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eflablifhed in the elements
i>E Medicine, of the late a lchrated
JO If N BROWN, M. D.
With an attempt to corredl some important er
rors of that work, jijd cases in illuflration, chief
ly fe'eifled from the records of their praiitce, at
tlie General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br William Tats* fc? Cras. Mausak.
To which is subjoined, a Treatise on the ailion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applies.
,tion i"w.r the cure of difeal'es of indireia debility
Andadifiertation onthe sources of Epidemioanc!.
Pestilential difaafes; in whichisattemptedtoprove
by a numerous indu-Tiion of fadls, that they ne
ver arise from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain Cater, or certain vicifiitudes of
the atmosphere, by Charlss Maclean, of
Calcutta,
j -nav. 3J.
[VotUMJI XII.MEW THEATRE
- «"■ ■ "■
{KOT PERFORMED THESE TIPOYE.IRS.;
THIS EVENING,
t>ECEM6ER 15,
Will be prcfeoted, a COMIC OPERA (written by
the autl.oi ef the Poor Soldier) c?l!ed,
THE HIGHLAND REEL.
. of Col, Mr. VvVrfcio
l.aird of Raafay, Mr. Warrell
> M'Gjlpin, Mr- liarwoml
Sandy; Mr, Mar.r.iUl
Chnrlcy, Mr. Francis
Sifelty, ]\lr. Bernard
Croudy, Mr Bliffst
Captain £>a(fi, Mr. M«retos
Serjeant Jack, Mr. Da.-ley
/ pie, Mr. T. Warrell
Eenin, Mailer l.'F.Hrjpge
Moggy-M'Oilpiri, Mrn. Marfhail
(Bc:illg her iirft appearance theie twelve months )
Jer.ny, Mn. Warrell
CMeir.Dod.or.Liyaiicy.anlly.L'f
-1 t <• t rr ) fertv, Mrs. Warren, Miss Mil-
Lads & Lafles, J j, ournej MifsL'Eftrange.MifsAn
(^derfon, Madame Harwcods &c.
!'o conclude with
A SCOTS' REEL.
liy the Characters.
'iVa which will be added, a JFARCE, in two a&s,
called,
THE SULTAN;
on,
A PFEP INTO THE SERAGLIO.
Soliman, Mr. Moyeton
Ofmyn, Mr. Harwood
Elrr.ira, Miss L'Efcrange
' !fm«ne (with Songs) Mrs. Wfcrrtii
Rbxslur.a (for lha: night only) Mrs. Marrtiall
TO-MORROW EVENING
(Bv Dejire)
Venice Preserved,
WITH THE
Lyirig Valet.
%y The new Conedy of WIVES AS THEY
WERE, AND MAIDS A 3 THEY ARE, which
wa< received with the utmost approbation—will be
repeated on Mon Ja^'
Box. oi>e Dollar ; Pit, threr quarters of a Dol
lar ; atid Gatlery, haif a Dollar.
$pT The doors of the Theatre Will open at five,
andilie curtain rife preciftly at Ct o'clock.
Flace; Icr the Boxes to be taken at the Office in
the front of the Theatre, from 10 till a o'clock,
and fro."j 10 till 4 on the days of performance.
Tickets to behati at H. and Rice's book-store,
No. 4 jo Market-street, and at the Office adjoining
the I heare. VIP A T RES PUBLIC A !
WANTE D,
i '
A PERSON that can produce unexceptionable
recommendations, to perform a jeurnay thfs
winter as far at the Obto—Such ail one will miet
with encouraging terms, by applying at.this office.
N. B- Some one acquainted with Hanifon
courty, Virginia, and its neighborhood, would be
preferred Dec. rtv—
NOTICE.
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAFs
and EDIVARD FOX'i Engagements
IN conl'equtnce of many having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circumllancn from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Frtiftees now inform them, they
are ready to iflue the lame to tltofe who may ap
ply within sixty days, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
aad those who do not, will be confidercd as re
linquilhinj their claim on th; Aggregate l'und
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
TtICMAS W. FRANCIS,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
ICKN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
December 15. dfict
New-Theatre,
December 11,1797.
THE Managers particularly rcqucft the con
currence of the public in the abolition of a
custom, vrhich has hitherto obtained, ef giving a
way or disposing of RETURN CHECKS at the
Theatre.
They are aware that gentlemen are unconscious
of any wrong done to the interest of the inft'tu
tionby this pradtice, from a general, though raif
taken idea that Checks are the representatives of a
right to so many feats in the Theatre, during an
Evening's Entertainment, and transferable at will;
when in fa A, thc-y were never intended as more
than tohtnt by which the Door-keepers are enabled
to afcertais with the least troubfe to the that
tbey themselves have been before in the Theatre, or
paid for their admiflion.
Independent of the injury the Managers fuflain,
such a practice encourages a croud of idle boys and
other difor Jerly persons to surround the doors of
the Theatre, to the corruption of their morals and
the great annoyance of the Audience.
It has also been thefource of two evils of no ih
confiderablc magnitude; cne is, that fomctimcs
very improper company is by these means admit
ted ; and the other, that owing to Checks pafiing
into diflioneft hands, they have betn frequenaly
counterfeited to a large amount for the purpofesof
Sale.
This ftatemcnt will, it is refpe&fully hoped, in
duce the Public to discourage such a traffic : and
the exertions of the Managers will, if thus aflitted,
easily prove adequate to its entire abolition.
WIGNELL 13 REINAGLE.
December 13 iw
Public Sales of India Goods
at New-York,
"Will commence on Monday the 18th inft.
by A L. Bleecket & Sons
The cargo of theJhip Swift, Pierre de Peeler,
Commander,jufl arrived from Calcutta, on
a credit of 2, 4, and 6 months
Confiftingof 279 bales of the following ar
ticles :
Manikpore"
Kirabod
Guzzena t r.
Addee BaAa '-
Emertie
Patna
Jellepore
Ouddee Coffacs
Tigerry Guzzcr.as
Beeboorn Gurrahs-
Blue Guineas
Guillaudendiary Handkfs,
Doreas
Dacca Mulmuls
Taßda Coffaes
Santipore Muslins
Kermichee Romals«^
Chandercoriah Nayanfook &
Bandanoe Handkerchiefs
The ai>ove Goods to be fold without the
smallest reserve.
Philadelphia, Dec. rz. *djt
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 15, j
CONGR E S S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. I
TUESDAY DECEMBER 12. 1
Debate on a Motion for fu/ptndir.s~icfC opera- I
lion of an A3 of Limitation.
YConcluded from yejhrday's Gazette.)
Mr. J. Williams said, he (hould vote
for the resolution, though he thought it did
not go far enough. The holders of these.
of certificates had been informsd that
the aft of limitation did not reach them ;
they therefore supposed their claims would
never be barred. This being the cafe, he
thought they (hould agree to this resolution,
and leave the holders at liberty to fund
them, since they had evidently been igno
rant of the pafiing of thelaw refpeftingthem.
Mr. Baldwin thought some of the ar
guments on this fubjedt went too far. The
truth was they had not fufficitnt checks to
guafd against frauds. They had for 12 or
14 years been end«avouring to guard against
them. Jf the resolution paired, which per
haps it ought, the suspension should be for
a (hort time ; for though the public were
able to guard against fraud, individuals
would be continually exposed to deceptions,
if this property were fuffered to be long a
float.
Mr. Edmond said, that notwithstanding
all the observations which had ben mjde on
this fubjeft, he could not vote in favour of
the resolution before them. He had heard
no argument fufficient to induce him to let
aside the adl of limitation. They were to
presume that this law was made after due
deliberation. Why, then, repeal it ? Ber
cause it was said, there were certain poor
soldiers, and others, pofTefled of certificates
which were barred by this aft. It was ex
tremely easy to paint the' situation of such
persons in glowing colours. But when they
had paiTed an aft of limitation, they were
not to set it aside for particular cases. This
would defeat the idea of limitation. They
mult, therefore, consider all persons in tHe
fame situation ; whether a person was an
original holder, or had purchased his certi
ficate, was immaterial. The statute had e
qually barred them. Had circumftanccs,
since the pafiing of the aft, changed ? No j
the only reason which bore any colour, was,
that the law had not been fnfficiently pro
mulged. If there hr.d been a negleft on
this head, those who had been guilty of the
negleft (hould redress it. Was it not made
as other laws were made, and promulged in
the fame way ? • But is it said to be incorpo
rated in a lengthy aft, embracing a number
of other articles, and ho reference was made
to it in the margin ; bnt it was comprized
in tne laws of a finglc fefEon, making a fmali
volume, and had beert promulged in the
fame way, in which penal afts which affeft
the lives of individuals, were promulged.—
However the fubjeft might be reasoned up
on, it was said that the faft was, that the
law was little known. It was said there
were members in the house who were not
acquainted with this law. Was this, he
a(ked, an extraordinary thing ? No one sup
posed that every member in the house was
acquainted with every law of the United
■States. The soldier, who probably could
neither write noT read was not supposed to
look after the laws which were passed every
feflion i no, the members of the legislature,
when they return home, take the laws with
them, and give the information to their
neighbours. If they were not thus publi(h
ed, it was owing to a culpable negleft.—
From all'thefe eonfiderations, he thought
the law (hould be preserved.
Mr. Brookes said it was an extraordina
ary doftrine, to fay, that though the mem
bers of the legislature \yere unacquainted
with a law, yet that individuals, who did
not look into a book once in seven years,
(hould be perfeftly acquainted with it.—
What would the people of the United States
think of this ? It had not the femhlance of
jnftice.
Mr. Macon said, on the principles of e
quity, the statutes of limitation might be
looked upon as injurious ; but as no law
had ever been pafled with more notoriety
than the one in question, he could not have
believed, if gentlemen had not themselves
declared it, that it (hould not have been
known to them. It was founded upon the
only report which the Sefretary of the
Treasury ever sent to that house unaflced
for, and it underwent as much debate as any
other law in the United States. These
claims, Mr. M. said, could (land in no better
situation than those of persons who had not
been in the way of getting their claims fet
tled.—Where both had performed services,
both had the fame equitable claims ; books
were the testimony in both caf*s. If it were
necefiary, therefore, to take these claims of
the statute, it was equally necefTary to repeal
all the statutes of limitation at once. Mr.
M. mentioned an inftatice of fraud which
took place in Rhodc.lfland, by a small sum
being altered to a larger in a certificate,
upon which the interest had been several
times paid,before it was discovered. It was
impoffiblc, he said to guard against frauds.
But he knew very Well that whenever the
claims of a soldier came up, the humanity
and philanthropy of the house were called
upon to afford relief; but 110 difference
ought to be made in favour of one class of
claimants more than another. There had
been a number of hard cases which had been
dec.ded against, from their being barred,
and if they opened the door at all; it (hould
be opened generally.
Mr. Gallatin said, he (hould not have
offered any thing more on the fubjeft, but
for what had fallen from the two gentlemen
last up. There was an essential difference,
he said, between these claims and other's ; it
I *
w . as .ttafe were- liquidated, the others
vfere" unliquidated.. ■ In thelatter trfere were
open sq;coijnt3 at the treasury, and if they
were natfettled in a given time, it was riot
pofiibje to check them ; that time had
therefore been limited; but, with fgfpfQ
to ' 'claims, the fame order had
not been taken. They were accounts fet
tled, which never could be expefted to be
barred, a» thg certificate was a fort of nego
tiable note from the government. If this
had not been the view ofof th;e legillature,
why except tbefe claims from the afts of li
mitatioij > It was clear, therefore, that they
stood on quite different ground from the de
scription of claims alluded to. And let it
not be said (added Mr. G.) that the hold
ers of tl\efe certificates ought to be acquaint
ed with the law which affefts these claims.
If the United States owe a debt, which
they do fi6t mean to pay, except presented
before a certain day for fettlcment, it was
their duty so to promulgate the law as that
it (hould be generally known. Much had
been said 6n the score of speculation. He
thought the great zeal which was now (hewn
against speculators, ought to have been brot
into aftion at an earlier period. Ten years
agb the idea of difcrim'm&tiun had been dis
carded, and he thought it too late to intro
dute it now. The gentleman from Connec
ticut (Mr. Smith) had said, it was the du
ty of members who were prefent*at the paf
ling of the law of 1785 to have op posed it
it the time. If the gentleman alluded to
him, he was mistaken, as he was no! 'a mem
ber of the house at the time the aft pafled.
Gentlemen who had spoken against specu
lation had confounded two things together,
viz. persons who had purchased these evi
dences of debt of individuals for a trifle, and
those who had received them in a regnlar
way. It would be perfeftly unjust to put
the latter upon a worse footing than origi
nal holders ; if it were meant only to affeft
1 the former, if the bill could be so modified,
he (hould not objeft to it, though he believ
ed great difficulty would attend the inser
tion o&fuch a provifioitF and he hoped the
motion tvftukl Ue adopted in its present form.
Mr. AlCen wished the committee would
rife, and have fit again. He wan
ted this matter developed ; there seemed
something behind which did not appear ;
it was impofiible that a million of dollars of
this description of debt could lie in the hands
of original holders. This business had only
been introduced this morning, and he tho't
it was not well understood. He wished to
have a littletime forconfideration. He tho't
also, that a new fyflem of morals had been in
troduced on the occasion, which ought to
be examined.
Mr. Brookes and Mr. Thatcher were
opposed to the rising.
Mr. M'Dowe&l was in favor of it, that
gentlemen who wished to speak on the fub
jeft might have an opportunity ; and that
their feelings, which had been worked upon
by highly colouring the fWferings of poor
soldiers, might have time to cool. He
fearedthe certificates in queftion,were chief
ly : .i the hands of other persons-
Mr. Coit had no objeftion to the com
mittee's rising. The sum which had been
dated ai the amount of the class of claims
under consideration was not correft—that
sum included a number of claims ef a differ
ent kind.
Mr. Gallatin was perfeftly willing
that the commtttee (hould rife ; but not
from the insinuations thrown out by the
gentleman from Connecticut (Mr. Allen)
that the motion was >vi(hed to be hurried
through the house, or that there was some
thing behind which did not appear. Hav
ing declared he did not know a person who
had one of these certificates, and not hav
ing had any desire for the motion to pass to
day, of course the iufinuation could have no
foundation, as it refpefted him, though he
had introduced the business, and he (hould
be juftified in taking no notice of it.
Mr. Allen said what he meant was, that
certain owners of public paper ef the Uni
ted States had determined not to accep.t of
the terma offered by the government, but
to have (hilling for (hilling ; 'and that this
suspension was intended more to relieve per
sons of this description than poor original
holders.
T}»e qucftton on the committee's rising
■ was and carried. They had leave to fit
again. Adjourned.
-JL.
"~WEDNESDAY DECEMBER
Delate on the fubjed of Foreign Coins.
The House being in a Committee of the
whole, the following report of the Seleft
Committee was read.
" That it appears from the best informa
tion they can obtain, tl»t very little of the
silver coin of the United States has circu
lated at any considerable distance from the
Mint, especially in the interior parts of the
country.
" That by tl»e operation of the law which
provided that at the expiration of three
years after the coinage of gold and silver
(hould commence, at the mint, alt foreign
silver coins, except Spani(h milled dollars,
and the parts of such dollars, (hould cease to
be a legal tender : considerable embarrass
ments have already beer, produced, and ma
■ny lwiTes sustained, as a very considerable
quantity «f foreign silver coins other than
Spanilh milled dollars, and the parts of such
dollars, was at that time in circulation.
" Your Committee also find, that by the
operation of the said aft, all foreign gold
coins will cekfe to be a legal tender after
thirty-firft day of July next ; that a great
quantity of it is now in circulation, and must
aeceffarily continue so until that period ar
rives, as it will be scarcely possible for the
mint on its present establishment to Gpin a
fuffieient quantity to replace it.
" Your Committee are therefore of opin
ion, that provision ought to be made by
law, authoiifing and requiring the colleClovs
of the revenue, to receive in discharge of all
demands of the United States, foreign silver
coins other tlinn Spanish milled dollars and
parts of such dollars, at the rates, and un
„dsr,tbe regulation by wbich they were re
ceivable before the 15<h day of October last;
that this regulation lhould continue fbrnvo
years, and until the end of the next fefiion
of Congress thereafter. And that so much
of the.said aft as relates to the circulation of
foreign gold coins, be suspended for the like
time."
Mr. Pinckney moved that the report of
the Secretary of the Treasury on the peti
tion of Robert Hazlehurft, and others, of
th* city of Charleston, on tht? fubjeft of
weighing goods imported, be referred to-the
Committee of Commerce and Manufactures.
This motion being agreed to, Mr. Pinck
ney .prefepjed the petition of fupdry wli rf
hoiders of that <c*ty on the fame fubjeft,
which was referred to the fame committee.
Mr. Gallatiu preferred the petition of
Mary Ivings, formerly of New-Jersey, but
now of this city, praying for compsnfation
for the services of her late hulband, and for
losses fuftaincd during the war. ■ Referred
to the Committee of Claims.
A message was received from the Senate,
informing the House that they had appoint
ed ajoint committee of Enrolled Bills, and
requeuing the House would appoint ode on
its part.
Mr. Swanwick moved that the petition
of Edward Thompson, which he prcfented
some days ago, ajid a reference of which had
then been opposed by the Chairman of the
Committee of Claims, (hould be referred to
a Committee. Agreed.
Mr. Gallatin wished to know from the
Committee, why the diftinftion had been
made between Foreign Gold and Silver coin;
why they had not recommended the Aft to
be fl/fpended with refpeft to Silver as well
as Gold. He could not fee any reaf « .vhy
Crowns (hould not be a legal tender for pay
ments in General, as well as to the Collec
tors of the Revenue.
Mr. Sitgreav.'s rofc to propose another
queftiou to the Committee. His Colleague
had supposed the dillinftion which had been
madebct ween Foreign Gold and Silver Coin
was in favour of the Gold, and would limit
the circulation of the. Silver coin. He
(hould rather suppose the strength of th<>
diftinftion was the other way, and he wifhtd
to be informed what had induced the Com
mittee to recommend, a fufpenlion of the
laws refpefting Foreign Gold coin. They
knew the Silver coin circulated by tale, the
value of the latter had been aftually dimin
ished by various means, such 9s sweating,
plugging, clipping &c. so that there was no
methad of afeertaining, with precision, the
value of Gold coin, without weighing it ;
and persons not in mercantile habits, and
who were not possessed of a pair of foalet, |
were at a loss to know its value. The infe- '
rence he drew, therefore, was, that the '
sooner they could get the Gold coin out of j
circulation the better, and the quantity was
so small, that no great inconvenience would j
ensue from such a measure. With refpeft
to Giver coin, the provision recommended
would, he believed, occafionbut little incon- '
venience. But instead of suspending the '
aft as it related to gold coin, he thought 1
they ought to accelerate the period ofthrow-j
ing that coin altogether out of circulation, j
Mr. Venable (ths Chairman of the com- '
mittee) in answer to the two gentlemen [
from Pennsylvania, said, that the diftinftion :
which the committee had made betwixt Fo- i
reign Gold and Silver coin, was founded on j
this consideration, that the law relative to '
silver had already been carried into effeft,
ani the consequences which would be pro
duced by the provision recommended, were
now felt ; and it was supposed that this re
ftriftion would be a means of bringing the
Foreign Silver sooner into the MiMt ; as if
it were not allowed to be a legal tender for
auy thing but duties, its circulation would,
in a great degree be confined to the Sea*
ports, and when the United States got it
into poffefiion, they would fend it to the
Mint, aad it would be re-ilfued in our own
coin. With refpeft to gold coin, though
there was little of it in circulation near the
Banks, there was a great deal of it in re
mote parts of the country,where there were
no Banks ? so much, that it would be irn
poflible to bring it to the Mint, to have it
re-ifTued without sustaining great loss, and
without almost being totally deprived, in
the mean time, of a circulating medium.—
And tho' Foreign Gold coin was fubjeft to
the injuries which had been mentioned, our
own Gold coin was equally fubjeft to them.
Few of the coins of the United States, he
said, had found their way into the interior
of the country ; indeed, so rare, were they,
that when they were met with they were
preserved with as much care as if they were
curious medals.
Mr. J.- Williams approved of the report.
In the northern parts of the state of New-
York, and the northern and western parts
of Vermont, considerable merchandize was
carrried on with Canada, from whence they
received gold coin in payment ; and if the
law refpefting foreign gold was not suspend
ed, there would be no circulating medium
in that part of the country, as they had no
papers but all payments were made in dol
lars, crowns, guineas -ii'.d half joes. As to
a coin from the Mint of this Country it was
with'them quite a curiosity. *
Mr. Nicholas was not fatisfied with the
reason which his colleague (Mr. Venable)
bad given for not going farther in the buli
nefs. He seemed to think that the law for
prohibiting the circulation of foreign coin
had already been felt, as it refpefted silver.
He believed the firft (hock had only been
experienced. He did r.ot fee any advanta*?
to be derived from the regulation propoied.
It went to lesson the value of a certain kind
of property, in order to enforce it into the
mint of the United States; but until it could
be (hewn that such a mealure would be of
some advantage to the community, he did
not think that the house would be juftified
in adopting it. It would be said by the
people, and with propriety too, that they
had eftablifhrd a Mint, but could not work
it wjthout defrauding them of their proper
ty— he had always thought eitablifh
tntnl ufiAcfs ; and in orderto make it other/
wife, a plan was now conltMptartW to rob';
the people of their property. If the ftme
regulations were to be adopted with reffeft
to gold, which were recotnmendedr relalive
to silver, the inhabitants of the interior fart
oi the Count! y would be wronged to ten
per cent of their rnonied capitals, as at ffe
fent a French crown would there pass for no
more than a dollar; he knew many whore
tained this kind of property in their hands,
because.they would not submit to the lass.
He saw no reason for prohibiting this kiid
ot coin; he believed it as good as any whbh
•could be given them iri exchange for it, as
a proof of this the banks of this City rec(i-
Ved it at its original value. The fame obftr
vations Would hold good with refptet to
good coin.- He thought it much better
that gold coin should pass according to its.
weigfit, than they should pass sanguinary
laws to punish persons for reducing its value.
He wiflicd therefore, that the whole law
might be suspended, as if the regulations
proposed were adopted, it would injure on;
party of the people, for no other reason thai)
beaaufe gentlemen were determined ta prc
fevere in what he deemed always an error, 1
the support of a national Mint.
Mr. Champ.in said, the arguments of the
gentleman lalt up did not go to the prelent
quettion, but to whether we fliould have a
Mint, or not. Mr. C. said, when he firft
saw the law for prohibiting the circulation
of foreign, he thought unfavorably of it ;
but, from the information he had received
on the fubjeft, he now thought differently
and believed, if the plan proposed by the
committee was agreed to,' it wyuld remove
any obje£tions to its operation. He tho't
the reasons which had been assigned for the
regulations were good. With refpecl to
the effect it would have on the Mint, as
French crowns were to be received iinpay
ment by government* they would doubtless
be recoined ; banks wou'd also receive
French crowns, or parts thereof, their ope
rations would go on as usual, and the value
of this species of coin would not beleffeiied.
—The aft incorporating the bank of the
United States had declare;!, that the notes
of that bank should be received in payment
by the officers of the United S f ates for du
ties, which had given a circulation to that pa
per more extensive than any other, which
would of course have a tendency to lefien
the evils complained of. He was well fat
isfied with this report : but, if any amend
ment could be made to it, which could make
it more acceptable to other gentlemtn, ancf
equally favorable to the Mint, he fheuld riot
object to it.
Mr. Nicholas asked whether it would be
in order to move to insert a resolution in
the report. «
The chaitman answering ia. the affirma
tive,
Mr. Nicholas said, to agree to the r*port
as it flood would be to set one part of the
people to speculate upon another ; as iA
those parts of the Union where little was
paid to the custom-house, a French crown
would pay for no more than a dollar, and it;
would be the bufinrfs of persons living in
sea-ports to purehafe th»-m at a reduced va
lue, which woifld be giving a different valun
to coin in different parts of the country, and
be an unjust tax upon a large portion of the
people.
Mr. Harper agreed with the gentleman
just fat down, that if the coin of the Unit
ed States was no better than that whieh
they wished to flop the circulation of, everv
thing which had been done in the cftablifh
rnent of a mint was wrong. This point
had often been difcufTrd. It was agitated
when the mint was firft cftablifhed, and it
was decided that the coin to be issued from
the mint would be better than the coin then
in circulation ; not becau'fe a particular
piece of gold was of more value to an individ
ual, but because it was better for a nation to
have a coin of its own. It was on this ground
that the expence of the eftablifhraent was
juflified. Therefore the 'gentleman was
begging the quettion upon a fubje£t which
had long been decided. He was far from
being opinion of the gentleman from
Virginiljrthat the proposed regulation would
reduce the value of foreign coin ten per
cent ; for, if a French crown palled for an
hundred and teri cents in the sea ports, it
would soon have the fame value all over the
United States ; and if the rttempt to pur
chase them at an under-value were to be tri-*
ed, it would be found that a competion
would produce their real value. But, he
said, though there might not be much duty
paid in some parts of the country, there
were every where storekeepers who had deal
ings with the merchants in the sea ports,
and wbo would be glad to receive them in
payment for their goods. H: allowed some
little inconvenience might arifu, in thus en T
deavouring to promote the circulation of our
own coin ; but if the business was postpon
ed, the fame evil would always occur He
hoped, therefore, the regulation with ref
peft to silver coin, recoihmended by the
committee, would be agreed to. As tofu
reign gold coin, he should wifli that to be
put upon the fume footing, which would
bring it into the mint, and it would be turn
ed into circulation in a new shape. But
the committee had reported a face which,
if founded, was of importance, viz. " that
it was fcareely poflible (or the mint to recoiu
this money so fall as it should be brough;
in." If this were, so, ti:sy mufl either not
call it in, go on in enlarging the mint, or
have no mint at all. But he did not take
the fait as Hated. He believed there was
no waot of meohanical force in '.he mint.
Mi. Vcnable interrupted Mr. Harper to
fay, the committee did not mean that the
mint had not the necessary mechanical force;
but that they could not get fuSicient bul
lion for the occasion.
Mr. Cliamplm wilhrd to hive the liberty of
aflsiiig the chair, whether the question was not
lifceptiMeofdiviftori. H it were, he t
it would greatly (horten the rieba e M divide
The Chairman anf.vered the question m'gnl
be dlvi'l d.Mr. Hsrprr of -siakinj a motion !•>
that c'iTe<o. 1! l* whi'ch !he
If tjiere had be n a ptivGi al incapacity in the
mint to have coined a money, there
woiild, indeed* havt been a r-al diiiicnlty ; hut
if bullion only wss w inrefl, the oyly rtitans to
• iupply it woujd be to call in the foreign pnld
coin. He'hoped, .'hefefore, tbat the regulation
wnh relpeCt to silver would be agreed to, and
that the gold coin might be put on the fame
footing.
Mr. Vena'de propofqd that the former part
> of the icport ffioiiid be firtt agreed to, relative
toTilvercoin ,• ' J
t Mr. Gall itin iintlfi-ftood tliat the gontleman I
from V.rginia ( Mr. Nicholas's) motion was in
order.
The Chairman faidh.e had mentioned his in
tention of moving a resolution, but had pot
handed it to tli« chair.
Mr. Nicholas said, that underftandirig his
motion was in order, he should make it. He
■would firft state one fafl, wnith would be fuffi
cient to answer all the reafor.ing of the gentle-
men from South-Carolina and RhoHe-Ifland
( Mr. Harper and Mr. Champlin)—Though in
the large cities hank notes were equal to every
purpose as a circular medium, ia the country
where he lived they paflcd at a depreciation on
( ly This resolution wa>t<> the following effe>fl:
" Refol« ed, that so much of the a<ft, relative
to fi|v e r coin, &c. as goes to restrain the cirru
llition of foreign coin, be fafptnded for a hrait
- edtirne."
' Mr. Gall; tin was in favour of this resolution.
He did not think the propofiticn of the commit
tee went far enough. It did not follow, as the
gsntleman from S. Carclina had dated, that be
cause a French Crown should be payable only
for certain purpofts, that moment it became aw
article of merchandize, which would rife and
fall according to the demand there might be for
it. This was the cafe with a'l foreign coins in
every country where they did not pass as a legal
tender. If there were any weight in the argu
ment of the gentleman, from 8. Carolina, *th it
hecaufe the collcAorg would receive crowns at
110 cent», they would alyays be worth it, it '
might be carried farther and said, that becaufc 1
, this coin has this value in any other country, it ]
cannot depreciate here. It appeared, therefore, '
that though the provision lecommended would ]
*►».. xemedy the evil, iti Fome degree, it would not *
remedy it altogether, and that where there was
not a demand tor this species of coin, it would t
depreciate in its value Mr. G. said it was clear. t
we had not more circulating m.-dium in tlic.
aoutitry than was neceflary for the purppfes of r
commerce, and that, therefore, the withdraw
ing any part of it would 6e au evil. It wa»
neeeflary, therefore, to enq'iire whether any
good would arise fi-om such a measure, to criim
tc'rbdanee the ev:l. The gentlemen from K.
, Ifiand and S. Carolina said, it was neeeflary to si
the existence of the mint What were the ad- f|
■■vantage* to be derived from the mint ? They f s
were told, that the g>eat objeift was to have a a
coin ot our own This oblervation could not '
apply to foreign silver coin, because the law de- -
clared that Spani/h dollars should circulate as
usual, which acknowledged that we fUod in
need of foreign coin for a circulating medium,
and that our mint was inefficient for the pur
; pose. But, in relation to the mint itfelf. It
was said, the proposed measure would force the
foreign coins into the mint. He wished to know c
how this could be effeaed? How could direfling vi
the coHediors to receive this coin force it into is
the mint ? Was it fuppofsd that the momentthe tl
banks or the revenue officers receive crowns,
they will carry them to the mint ? How had it
hoppened that, in receiving seven millions of , c
revenue from the custom-houses, that more of in
this coin had not heretofore Been sent to the at
mint ? And could it now be fpppofed that they w
would be compelled to take rhis coin to.the b<
mint ? In relat'on to gold coin, the gentleman j n
from South-Carolina had said, that the only
way of getting it into the mint, was to fay it
should not be a legal tender. But why thus
force the people to take this species of coin to
the mint j It was-clear it could not be the inter- ca
eft of government to have a mint, if it were
not the interest of the people j ind if they saw
, it to be their interest, they would take their so- j; c
reign coin there, without bring forced ro do it.
But, said he, if you suppress all foreign coins, r
you will do it contrary to the will and interell Wl
ofthe people ; (Scif'thiswcre the only meirsby
which government could ellabliih their miut, th
bethought the infhtutlon would never become a bli
very popular one. ' ca
Mr. Harper interrupted Mr. G. to fay he did
not fay that this was the only way in which the 1
mint could be supported. He said it was ene W
efie<s)ual method. cx
Mr. Gallatin continued his obXervatiors. frc
When the mint was firft eflvblifhed, it was said, it
that in three years from its commencement, there am
would be such a quantity of our own coin in s ol
circulation, ae would fupercede th; cereffity of
foreign gold, or silver coin. Expedience had r
shewn, however, that the friends of the eftab-.
lifhment were mistaken. There was not now a
fuflii-ient quantity ; but they were told, not
withstanding, that all foreign coin, except
Spanifk dollars and parts thereof, should be call- nu ,
ed in. He hoped not. If, when they came to f 0 t
consider the mint eftablifiiment, it should ap- >
pear to be neceflYry to take such a step, he '
Crusted they should take such naeafuresas would '
beeffei?lual, without putting any class of peo- P O7
pie to loss. Until the mint were eliabfifhed up- tidt
on a footingwhich &ouid render it equal 10 the met
supply of a fufficiency of coin for the wfe of fa
the country, he hored they should leave the a j
foreign coins upon their present footing.
On 'motion, the committee rose, reported /
progress, and had leave to fit again. " ea
men
THURSDAY DECEMBER 13. f a^
A coniirunication was received from the fecreta- thet
ry of the treasury on the fubjeS of the loan made
for the use of the city of Washington, ia thedif
trict of Columbia, which wa* read and ordered to. /
be printed.
A petition was presented from a number of in- " J
habitants of Cumberland county, in the ft ate of arm
Virginia, praying for an alteration in the poft
road passing through that diftriift. Referred to the I
committee already appointed relative to post reads
Mr. Rutiedg« presented the petition of Johp 1 3 C
Le Bar, praying for a pension. Referred to the '' u "
commit tee of claims. mar
The bill for the relief of the reprefentatiyes of pd (
Williaai Carmichael, deceased, was read the third
time and palled.
\ mcflage was received from the senate, inform- .
forming the house that they had parted the bill for
suspending; the Stamp Ait lor a limited time. er C
A committee of enrolment was agreed to be ap- Jn£r
pointed to act in conjunction with the committee •
of the Tcnate.
Mr. Harpir called the recolle&ion of the house 1 f
to th: hill which was passed la 11 I'efiiun hy that wlii:
fcotifj for the relief of major Thomas Lewis, hut
which was not afled upon by the senate, owing to rr
its beini; sent up the laiV day of the fefTujn, and
movsd that a committee h'c appointed to bring in a Sten
new bill ; but, on the chairman ot the committee Mot
of claim's informirg the house that major l.ewi-'?. a t t
petition was at present before them, the motion w v,;.
vras withdrawn.
Mr. Snv.u: feid,. tl:?re had been an or .'lion in I ,r fP'
thr aet regulating the ccmvr'U'ti">p - allov, cd to I
qshcers employed .u the colicCuou 0! duties cn I L
on !•> ' inifo&aafiflittgtt, pasTed kft f&oi, whiauff. c
5 cn * ?* d a co»|rao* : in the flat > of'Miffachofrttt; he
lent, therefore, itiove*! that a cop.iniiffe
» the ( * n( | l, ' re whether ary and u hat alterations were ue-i
there therein, and that they report Uy bill or oth
; 1m t ervv if-. —,« greed.
n* 'to Mr. Allen moved a rcfohriontoth* following
gold eff c - A • • ' 3 .
atio» " e^°lv "d t #That the feTctary of the treafary
and to report to tke hyufr, an account of
fame . * l f >an-offi C e certificates, final settlements, and
indents of intcreft, not rcgiftered, and now out
part J i an ; a "d f'fo matters a$ relatte to the
rtivc ° r lncx ?«^»« nc y extending, for a
limited time, the 14th fc<stion of the ail for mak
man urt^cr Pavilion so- public credit, and for the
I redemprion *f the pvbHc debt."
Mr. Gallatin called for a division of this
quefhon. It yras yesterday decided, he faid,-that
I r , w ° no * 1:1 order to refer report of the
Jiot fclcil committee to the kcretary of the
u- f^ ou ght it would he egually imp* .per to
ms lend For his opinion as to the expediency of extend-
He iftg th« ad in qucftion. If the gentleman would
um- modify his motion, so as to call for whatover in
itle- formation he pleased, he fliould not ohjeA to it.
and Mr. Bkqokes spoke to the fame effect
iin Mr. Allien did not think his resolution cal'ed
r ery j® r t^le opinion of the secret ry of the treasury ;
itry he me3ut it to call only for information on theiu r
on* je v
e<£J: separate questions wera taken upon the two
rive P art * °f Molution, andjioth were carried with
out a division. 0
a it_ relolyed itfelf into a tommittec 1
of the whole 011 the report of the fele<ft committee
on. ® n > t ° e £***}"& of foreign coins; when Mr. Nicho- ,
nit- fcpropoiitiop for altogether rht ope
. ration of the act.for checking the circulation off o
reign gold and liivur coin under confidera- \
f "on Mr. Sitgreavcs proposed an amendment, to '
1 } confine the operation of ths a& to gold coin only, t
a» After consider .blc debate, in the course o r which ,
ind the whole.fubjeft was brought into view, the sense f
for of tlic hcufe was takcu on this Amendment which
in was without a division. Mr. Nicholas's 1
gal proposition then ime ag.iin under confederation ; I
fu - but, 011 a fuggc «ii of Mr. Varnum. that there f
nt niight some t'oubt arise as to the wording of the 1
at .refdurion, Mr N. k.ovei to fufoend the fect-nd *
j t feci ion of the ;i£t, which feemcd more completely 1
life to purpofe,which he had in view, which c
it a 5 c o fafpead the whole a<st as it related boih to
•e, \ v<rr ai gold coin This motion was carried
i!d w *'hout a diyiHon, so that f'»re : gn gold, crown*,
&c. will be a legal render asufual, provided this
regulatioq iMo«J^v r .
!d CQ^\ m:ttee fheQ the house agreed tn
the amendment, and the report >lva? re-committed f
to the feledl committee to report a bill accordingly. \
The debate on this fubje»£l will begiven to tuor*. J
row. Adjouraed.
| y Friday, December ij. ■
n- After reading the Journal of ye(terday,al- 1
i. so a feport brought in by Mr. Harper, pre- P
:n scribing the mode of taking evidence in ca- °
J- fes of disputed tleflions, and refeiing the r
■y fame to a committe of the whole, the house
£ adjourned till monday. '
n By this day's Mail.
I t NEW-YORK, December 14. j,]
e Mr. Boyd, one of the principal English c ,
v loaners to government, when going on the
g visit to Paris, which we formerly mentioned, c }
0 is dated to have taken with him not less si,
e ' than a dozen coaches, plainly but elegantly m
!| finifhed, arid without any armorial bearings th
f |° iufult the republican taste. These were
f intended as presents to his particular friends,
e amongst whom citizen Carnot,the Direftor,
Y w ho favoured him with his paflport, was to
e be included. Mr. Boyd retired from Paris
1 in some disgust, and rather in hade, before
' the di'fgrace of his friend the Direftor waa te
s generally known. On his return to Eng- G {
, laird lie told his friends " the surly republi- j.
- cans did not like his carriage."
" *-
A Canada paper informs us, that the pub- Q
lie road, proposed to be laid out from the
' province line, at Miflikeuie-bay to St. John's
t W1 " be a continuation of the Great Public
r already laid out from New York to he
, that place, where a line of stages arc efta- t ; c
1 blifhed, and will run as soon as the road pr
can be made prafticable, from New-York
quite to St. John's ; and adds that this road a
when efTefled, will no doubt be the mod
expeditious and convenient one to travel I 7
from this country to the United States, as at ,
it will be paflible at all seasons of the year, m .
and runs thro a fertile and fettled conntry, th,
. south of the line 450. j t
Extrafl of a letterfrom an officer at Ofwego 9
to the printers of the Albany Gazette, Nov. Prp r
1 79?- (la
" A few daysfince, as a batteau, with a ro ,
number of persons on board, -was coming down thi
to this place, they imprudently ventured out in at)l
the river, and in attemping to make thefhore J t6
above the falls of Ofivcgo, it was not in the t ) K
power of the hands to Jlem the impetuous J at
tide—alas it would be painful to dwell on the j-; 0
melancholy cataflrophe—the boats went down ft; t
the torrent, and two young ladies(daughters to f y :
a Mr. Richardson) a Negro woman and child h| 3
fell viflims to a watery grave. Te who have Q f
hearts offympathy, drop a tear of pity to the C( J
memory of the two lovely vifiims,let the curtain que
fall on the pillow of religious hope, and waft RJj
them to the bosom of peace." ers
PITTSBURGH, Dec. 9.
On Thursday last arrived here, general tC( n
WILKINSON, commander in chief of the d ro
army of the United States. ,
A detachment of federal troops of about j s [
130, arrived here from the eadward, on vy
Sunday lad, commanded by major Free- t j, e
man. We underdand that they are deftin- ( ] er
ed for some of the pods o» the Ohio*. ' q qi
On Thursday lad, the Indians charged
with the killing of Clark, near Beav. ten(
er Creek, were tried. The Jury, after hav- fl ee ,
ing retired about two hours, brought in a
verditt of acquittal, to the entire fa
tisfaftion of all who heard the tedimony, w a
which was altogether prefumpfive. ur ; t
NOTICE. ' bres
THE Creditors of the Edate of Walter i and
Stewart deceased, are requeded to meet on ; com
Monday next at 6 o'clock in the evening adei
at the City Tavern—The business upon yeat
which they are to deliberate being of great " M
importance they are requeded not to fail to ralif
give their attendance. j ele<?
JDe, 15. 3t ; diffi.
<d'o %\ys (j5 85 ette^
enci , •
° th " PWILADELP HI J ,
r, "£ Friday evening,, December rjf
t'3 On Wednesday at noon, departed this
and ''fe, Mrs. Mary WmfE, cor,fort of the
out- Ri6ht Reverend Bishop White.
the DIED— Vdterday, Michaci Foy, a poor
wk- ° had for tlmF been fupport
the e out t ' le piVbJtii contributions. He
liad had fere wives and thirty children.
this
the A . rS ?° rt ' whictl «ns?"ated,at the fouth
ry ; . WHr T d ' ° f r the of 6,000 French troops
i* to Loumana, is m.igoi/ie.i in number, be
**■' ,' VC , IC rcaches Boftgn, to JSiw thousand.
aid i o this the editor of .the Centinel aptly fub
in" joins ?' improbable. 99
led Tht following article, relate, to the robberies,
y ; -we mentioned in this Gazette M evening.
u 1 - Mejfrs. Claypoole,
wo Having been flopped !aft evening, be
(h tween the hours of five and fix o'clock, oo
my way to the city, about a mile this fide
t ec of Gray's Ferry, on the main road, by three
tee villains, with a demand to deliver my mo
£ ! although I. had the gcod fortune to
"cape by running my horse, yet I feel it
ra- m.cumben.t on me to announce the circum
•o ilance to the public, as an additional incen
ly. tive to the immediate adoption of such aftive
, C f , r "" lurcß f may be pod likely to check
ch progress of similar outrages : at the fame
tnnc n ™ a 7 not he amiss tq state, that on
, ; proceeding home, about a mile and a half
re from the place I was (topped at and near a
id , nc on ,1)e commons, I dijlinaly heard
the report of 3 gun or pistol, within a (hort
:h dntance of the road.
10 ROBERT WESeOTT.
' Philadelphia, 1 .-\th Dec. 1797.
'*»
About fix o'clock the fame e*ejiing,' Mr.
t8 Scott,a cqnflabk,of returning from
:d ierving some noticfOjiWts fiieei o fi by some
y- villains near one of the brick-yards, and on i
Mr. Scott's falling they beat hira with the 1
butt ends of their pistols, and after robbing
him of about faventy dollars, went off. '
[_ Mr. Scott received the (hot on the upper '
part of his head, by which he was danger- '
oufly wounded, but there are hopes of his '
' recovery—lt is probable that the firing 1
• which Mr. \yefcott heard, was by the fel- *
lows who attacked Mr. Scott. ]
t
From ike Columbian Centinel. t
Mr. Russll, e
Propose to the world the following brief *
and important cjueftions, and yon will o- c
blige one jof your readers, who wiffies fin- ii
1 cerely to know " what is truth." h
Why is it that dtijls sometimes become c
. chrijlians ? Why do the latter never change tl
1 fides? Whyis it that trinitarians often become v
unitarians ? Why do these rarely become n
r tho f< ? PILATE. c
: A. C. 1797. v
ANECDOTES n
' OF THE BANISHED DEPUTIES. O
n
; S A L A D I N <• tl
Was one of the deputies who signed the pro- 1
1 test against the infamous decrees of the 31ft t
of May and the firft and second of June, c
1 793 » or this he was sent to prison, and tl
only escaped the guillotint by the death of b
Robespierre. He always voted with the y
Girondists. ti
v»
£ O 1 S S T D'ANGLAS. tl
Was of the order of the ci-divant noblesse : f £
he is well known by his celebrated obferva- r<
tions on Cantonne's publication " On the Y<
present and future state of Franct," and by ft
his masterly reply to a publication of the V!
Abbe Raynal. He ha 9 always been consi
dered as the author of the Constitution of w
1795 ; insomuch that the Jacobins, blindly tl
attached to the Constitution of 1793, ftig- tl
matized that of 795 by the appellation of R
the patrician constitution of D'Anglas.— ff
It was reported at Paris for some time, that P<
Boiffy.in the committee of Legislation, had in
exprefled an opinion in favor of a perpetual vc
President of the Direftory :—this circum- be
(lance drew on him the suspicion of being a
royalist. In his work, entitled, " Ideas of of
the Arts," he has evinced much ability ; wl
and it is greatly admired for the elegance of er
its style and energy of its thoughts. At ro
the period when the mob, instigated by the el]
Jacobins broke into the hall of the conven- tu
tion with a demand of " Bread and the con N;
ftitution of 1793," it fell to the lot of Boif- it
fy to be in the chair, defertsd by mod of cy
his and the bleeding head of one th
of them (Ferrand) fixed on a pike present- loi
ed to his view, he boldly refufad to put the tht
question on the inflammatory resolutions of
Rbul, Durol, and their anarchist support- f e {,
ers, and remained at the peril of his life,
till Legendre brought up a party ef citi- c il
zens, who had armed themselves forthe pro- f«
teftion of their representatives, and who
drove the rabble from the hall. Ct
tio
V ILL ARE T JOT E USE Cc
Is an old and brave officer in the French na- thi
vy ; he commanded the republican fleet on po
the memorable epoch of the Ift of June, un- (ha
der the orders of Jean Bon St. Andre, the P al
Conventional commi(soner :—his behaviour
on that day gained him much credit ; and era
it is said in France,that Jiad,his advice been at- ing
tended to by St. Andre, the defeat of the boi
fleet would not have been so disastrous. fi tl
mil
PAST 0 R E T dei
Was known before the revolution by his
writings, on the fubjeA of religion : they bo]
breathe throughout a spirit of inveftigau'on w' l
and liberty. His firft publication was e ca '
comparison between the chara&ers of Zoro- re F
after, Coufucius and Mahomet, in the mil
year 1788 he publi(hed his work, entitled tio
" Moses considered, as alegiflator, and Mo- jou
ralift ; which was universally read. He was I
elefted deputy to the Convention, on the car
dissolution of the national assembly ; but re- eve
* tired diigiiftcd. witb tt« proceedings. He
was returned deputy for Paris, <lurii:t£ the
druggie of the feftion's with the Convention
about the re-ele&ion of the two thirds.
He has always beet ranked as an aristocrat ;
and the ftrofcg terms in which he reproach-
cd Condorcst for writing in the Journal de
this Paris will never be forgotten by the friends
the of freedom. He is said to have presided at
the meeting held by such of the members of
nor the Council of Five Hundred, as assembled
irt- at the House of Andre de la Losere, in 01 -
He der to protest agaluft the late directorial ex
ertion of powdr.
.Hill l»
th- PARIS, Sept. 36.
>ps Council of Five Hundred.
De- S«ptember 23.
,d. Efchafferianx—" The Republic ycfterday
,b-. celebrated with pomp the anniversary of ns
foundation. Jam about to propose to you
to honour the memory of its founders, who
es, have fallen vi&ims to their glorious zeal in
the cause of Liberty. They are no more ;
we enjoy the fruits of their labours. Every
ie- nation has revered and celebrated their Le
30 giflators and their deliverers ; public, grati
de tude consecrated monumentsto their fame
ee Harmodius and Ariftogiton had statues' in ■
o- Athens; Lyciirgus in Sparta. Rome in
to ftituted games, and raised temples to Romu
it Iws and Remus. The name of William Tell
n . is still regarded with affeftion by the inhab
it Hants of happy Switzerland ; his name is
, e engraved upon the rocks from whifh he pre
:k cipitated the Austrian ttranny j it is ecle-.
brated with enthusiasm upon the theatre
»n of " Europe, it is recorded in all the poets
,lf who have sung of Liberty and of great men.
a The name of Penn, the firft Legislator "of
•d the new world, remains dear to philosophy
rt and to humanity. Barnevelt and Sidney '
are remembered with increasing glory, and
their memory will live to the latest age. A '
cfcntury of refpeft and of tears has already '
avenged these generous Citizens, who died '
r . for their Country's Liberty. The names of '
■n, the Tirtuoud men who have founded the
ie French Republic, and who have periled in '
n its cause, (hall they be condemned to an in- '
, e gloricns descent to future times? What do
g I fay? An inglorious descent? I have '
_ seen them, while alive, perfected by envy '
r and calumny, direaed by malice ; they were '
•- worthy of the immortality of virtue ; their
s cotemporaries, by their ingratitude, 'and the
, friends of Kings, by their hatred of them, J
_ have acquired the immortality of crime.
Here the fcaffolds have been stained by the
blood of the brave Lcgiflators who levelled i
the firft strokes at the Throne, and proclaim- 1
ed the Republic. There, the murderous '
f steel, when courage nerv'd the arm, saved 1
. others from the hands of the assassins. Here a
. in savage dens .and frightful solitudes, they
hid themselves from the fury of their impla- "■
■ cable enemies. There, others fell before u
; the swords of Despots. Soon after, those d
. who had given liberty to the world could C
: not find an afyluni in their own country. A
cabal that was conspiring in favour of Kings 9
were nearly on the point of burying the re- -
mainder of its firft founders under the ruins
of the Republic ; and black calumny was
ready at hand, had they failed of success, to *
transmit their names, branded and stigma
. tized to a deluded posterity. R*prefenta- ~
lives, to you it belosgs to avenge these ac- ,
, cumulated ou trages, and to change the tables I
1 that were to proscribe Republicans into ta- ol
F bles that must immortalize them. Ages 01
; yet unborn, before whom you are one day
to appear, will call yon to an account for
what you ought to have done in favour of g
those who devoted and facrificed themfeves
: for you andyourdefcendants. Obvialetheir Sc
reproaches ; be just, be grateful towards I 5
your benefactors. And jndeed what do we
fee but cold statues, inanimate monuments,
vain allegories, that encumber your palaces,
your public squares, your public hal's : C<
while the hallowed images of the Condorcets Su
the Vergniauds, and of the firft founders of
the Republic, objefts so dear to every true
Republican, are as yet no where seen to So
speak to the eyes and to the hearts ot the Qi
people. No monument has yet been raised
in honour to those who, like them have de
voted themselves to the facrcd cause of Li- m '
berty. Buried in an unjust and ungrateful fcr
oblivion, they still await the tardy homao-e to
of their cotemporaries. Free Nations, of f'
whatever defctiption, teverence your dehV ■
erers, unless you prefer falling under the iTc
rod of tyrants. It is at the present moment w '
especially, you ftiould signalize your grati
tude towards them ; when the Liberty of M
Nations is at issue with the power of Kings, '
it is a gratitude which both justice and poll- Co
cy equally combine to inspire. I move that
there be ere&ed a monument with the sol- ~
lowing infeription :—" To the Plunders of
the prench Republic, who during the courfc of
the Revolution, have fallen vtdims of their
felf-devotioij to their Country"
The principle was adopted by the Coun- 1
cil, and the means of executing it were re-
ferred to a Committee.
On motiou of Males, organ of a Special
Cpmmifiion, it was decreed, that the excep- a " c
tion made in favour ofthe Dutch and Danirh
Companies by the 13th article of the law of brii
the 10th Brumaire, which prohibits the im
portation and sale ofEngli(h merchandizes, l'! c
(hall be extendedto the Swedish India Com- c ' r( ,'
pany, established at Gottenburg. or j
Poulain Grandpre.—" You have confe- re
crated the republican institution, by decree
ing tkat you would repose from your la- bo"u
bours on the decadis, and on the republican nor
fetes. But of what avail is example on the " el
mind olegotijls—on those fouls that are so ~S
deeply imbued with the prejudices of the
old regime, who flatter themselves with the
hopes of the restoration of monarchy, and £) c ' (
who lock 011 rile 18th Friictidbr as a public I
calamity ? I', is by laws they ought to be ~
repressed. I move, therefore, that a com- ' i
mittee be appointed to examine the ques
tion, whether it may be proper te forbid the -jr
journals to put any other date at the heads 1
of their journals than that of the republi- )'<*
can sera, under pain of being fappreffed, and
every citizen to adopt aDy other in their le r
" *,• .. .. , \v
dir licnj
lon ed null and vold j-'—Agreed to. "
a~ jPOUNCIL OF. ELDERS.'
ch- n» Us !?r m ' a lf'7 Ax-Mumhr 20.
L°d rd "'. in 3 re P an the refo!u' ion M
or au i h °T'« "Uhe Colonics the re-erurance o'
■ x . ""J pciTon, propofcd
I' 1° b WM as making no dif-
F l'vu f UVe f :1 those .fnnfported bv the
Enghft by the French Commissioners, cr
those who abandoned their, comnrv.
4, H f T" T ° rdereJ tu be P rinted >
tiie duciuiion ndjourned.
.'A • , App . rovcd thr resolution for granting an
» .ndemn.ty to the Deputies whose elefL*
U were declared void.
in ar s C(im ! ,le ">/" l « r y Day— Sept. 21,
■ ■ lit c , rcje ? a decree refpedW the
ry i'f?)! ° ft,e ed ' torS °; ,he Republic, and
7 of the cidevant Civil Lift, the fitting ter
minated with a fpeesh from the President on
t he Republican Festival.
a- GAZETTE marine list.
II PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
is p , Arr ' med on T»'fd«y at Reedy Ijlcnd,
, Sh f Carol,ne. Motley, of Portland, n?
(faysfrom Liverpool.
, t Schooner Commerce, ArnM, 34 days from
. s Jaquemel 7
1. Arnold informs, that the fchoener
>f Sally Montacue, _/«//«//row //ji'j p. jr , tht fame
y 7: v > and that the fnov, Liberty, Wallace y of
y //j " P or! > r -»as then at Aux Caycs.
d att ount3 from Reedy JJland it njpeers
\ I " :at " J,ne of the outward lound vessels that lift
y that place on Saturday cr S::aday lajl, went
tofea, they remained ai the i/lands oil Thurf
p day morning.
e A bright-fded I rig, no head, ar.d light
n came into the capes in company Iwith the Com
_ merce on luefdey.
0 Th'Jhip Columbia, L far, from Amfhrdam
5 lo p ort > fpoie the sth injlant, out
eleven weehs,Jive of -which on the coafl, all
J, well.
1 New-Yotif Dee. iaT
e \ Arrived.
, S/j '> Niagara, Armour, x>if!erdam
HuMiib, Havannah
e * {fierday arrived the letter of Marque brig
j Sir John IVentworth, of 8 guns and 16 men
_ Capt. Rumford, in 21 days from Martinico
s whofpole on the 29 th Nov. a schooner from
I Baltimore, to Cape Nichola Mole, out 10
, days.
r Capt. Rumford informs us that in two days
after he failed, the Beaver sloop of war ctvjr
■ t0 c °n™y 3 O fail of American veffes lound to
. different parts of the U. S. clear of the iflar.ds
[ Copt. R, recolleSs the Irtg Polly capt.
Lindfay, of Wells, bound to BoJlon, to be one
of the number.
1 cy- A stated meeting of the American
, Philosophical Society will be held at their
1 Hall at 6 o'clock this evening.
" Friday, iyth Dec.
~Mrs. U rattan, *
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Grn
tlcmer of the city, that h;r firll CONCJP.R r
of Vocal Mode wilt be on Thursday nex,t, the 1 j.l
of December, inft. at Mr. Richardst'.i
ACT I.
Quartette, ' p, ,
Seng—Anjcls ever bnjfhr, Ha-idel
Glee—Mcffrs. Carr, Dailey, juli. and Hill,
. , „ The Mariners
->ong—Mr Carr
Duett—Mrs Gratt*n and Mr. Carr, Pa!Tl;illo
Song—Mr Darley, ju»,
Scotch Glee—Mrs.Grattan, MelTrs, Carr, Darley,
Hill.
ACT. If.
Concerto Piano Forte, (by a young lady) Viotti
Song—Mrs. Gr.itun, Sacchmi
(Jlee—McflVs Carr, Darhy and Hill, Jactfun
Dustt—Mrt Giatian and Mr. Carr, Time
i.h-5 uotthh/a
Song—Mr. DarUy, jun.
Qaarte:!:—Mrs. Grattan, Meffri. Carr, D ai lev
and Hill. '
Si* doliarseadi iu': T,liber for one ticket of ad
mittane; during thefe;ifon.
No fubferi'* s tichet transferable, but any f.jh
fcriber on pa>-n:g his l'abftri; tion.willhave a ri'rht
to demand tkieti for the jwmjrrhd par- o» his fa
mily, wi.icli ticket will admit them every itight
during the f-aiein, but are not transferable. "
„ The ai half pa.t lix a;:d the mu'
ucte *:tend lor. Ihe Hall at eight, til- espence of
winch Grattan engages to difcjiarge. *
Non-lu'Kribt'is ticket—dollars.
Subfyiptii l cctived an J ticKR (MHierai hv
Mn. Grattan's cl.rk, at No. 191, High ltreet,
Non-fublcribers tickets to be had the day of the
Concert at the S*r at Mr. Richardct'*.
Dcccnber i s d^ lft
Marjhals' Sales.
United States, 1
Pennsylvania Diftrid,
P Y virtue ot wius ol v.udilioni exponas, ilTued
XJ out of the dillrift court of.ihe Uniitd Siatrs. and
lo mc will be fold at public Sale at the m r.
chant s< oifee-Hrufe, in Second street, on Wednefdiy
2 .7 l da y °' December inft. at 6 o'clock it. the
evening, al] (Hat p»cce or parcel of meadow tjroumi
iiruatc, lying and being in the township of Paffvunck,
a»id c lunty o? Philadelphia, on the road leading to
Stiie Iflind Ferry, containing about fifty-four acYcs
?n-i oeichcs, whereon are a twoftory
; brick Mrfiusge, out houtes and a barn ; also one o-
ol | piece of meadow giound, fi-uate in tl>c
Hill cownfhip and county, and nearly on thr opposite
lidcoftbefa-id roadtothc laid ft rry,containingfixrerna-
a'foanvfluagecrtcnrmcntand lot
or p ece of grou'.ri situate on thr north fide of
nrert, between and 6th llrccts, in the cry of Phi
ade!phia, conuining in fronton High ftieet,
thr ;e feet, anri in length or depth two hundred fee
bounced raft bv prapeny of Hannah Pcrhbertov?
rorrh by South allc\ , welt by property of William
Pell, land l- uth by High rtreet afotelaid.
Seized and taken in execution as the property of
Henry Scckel, and to be fold by . x
William Nichols, Martha!.
Marfbal's Office, ">
December ic, r '97-J
Dccemhrr rc
Philadelphia and -
pike Company.
rriE Stockholders are hereby notified, that fh*
annual Klevfti >n for Officers for the
bt held at the Company's Office in Phj a
•adpliia. on tnc second Monday i« January ik xi a :
I© o'clock, a. m. V*'u OOVETi',* dee'ry
Decern 1 cr " 2rt?m3c At- jA farm for sale, L
IN Perth Ambay in the fnte of Newjerfey> i t
of four hundred a.*res, including a proper „
proportion of meadow, of arable and wood c
land, and Ml ir.scih : There ;s on the pren.ifcs, a
a /ood apple orchard, and a variety oi other
fruit trees, it is well watered with springS and
brooks, it is bounded on two fides wirh navi
gable waters and has a good mill site, itsntuj
tion is healthy and pleasant, commanding a
view of the navigation of Perth Am boy arid its
environs, and sonvenient to the finplt an.-)
oy/lers in their prope.r season, it abounds with
natural manure fr«<m which, with the ad\ mta- ]
(?es of the fait marsh by applying the hay tiiere- :
from to the keeping of liock, may at a '.mall i
expense, be enriched to a great degree ar.d ren- l
t)?r«d one of the firft grazing farms in the ftise , 1
it is well calculated for a farmer or a gtntre
man's feat, having several eligible sites for
building. This farm will be fold together or
divided, as mav suit a purchaser, at private
I'aie, or if not fold, will be set up at public auc- '
tiou on TueiHay the nineteenth day of Decem
ber next, at the houl'e of Roiert Rattoone, inn
kefper in Perth Amboy, at eleven o'clpck in
the forenoon. Any perl'on inclining to purchase
m;y view tlu; premises by application to John
or Matthias Haljtei « 'Perth Amboy, from
whern or from the Hon. Jonathan Dayton, Esq.
speaker of the house of representatives of the
UoUaI States now in Philadelphia, from Mat
thias PtVliamfon,jun. efq. or Mr. Samuel Smith
at Eliaibeth-Town Furthjr information may be
obtained, —and who are pofTefl'ed of maps of
the fanie.
Perth Ambpy, Nov. 16, *797-
15—eodti8D
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, propoGng to contrail hit bufi
nefj, offers this Ettite for (ale, on moderate 1
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnace',
* compete Boreiijg Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of lionet i alio a good Forge, all
in perfcfl repair, at ate all the Water Works conneft
ed with tlufe v#tious branches. The Air Furnatet
were lately built for the purpose of calling Cannon
for this State. —There are about two thouLud acret
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the bed Hay ar.d \
failure. The Cannon lately minn'iclured there,!
fully provet the excellency of the naetal, which is
luperior to any in thit country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of fixty-nir e guns
lately made, allhrugh some of the 24 were' bored
into3l pounders, have failed ou proving. The fru
ition very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufacture, and a place of arms lying in the (late
V 1 Conne£lieut, and only 30 miles from several land.
i.,«s 0.1 the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can refu't frem a plenty of water ilfuing
from 1 large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which ma/ be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all itie lloek and utcnfilt, and have polteffion
oner ticlois the firft of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mean time Tor going into Blast im
mediately there»fter, for every pait will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &c. For
t{im-, apply to Mr. Jofpph Anthony, io Philadel
phia; Oivid Brocks, Esq. one of the Rcprefentativet
in Congress lor thit ; Mr, D-vid Wateiman, 00
tfcprem.les, or to the p ootietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Ijy. 3 ».wtf
House and Lots, in BorderitQwn.
r ~pO BE SOLD, a harndfome two story House.
X vyith the Lot QP wbi.ch it il erected,
about ttoe piicliile of the beautiful aixi healthy
Village of SariUmqwn. The bmie is forty two
feet front, and in neat order. The lqt contains
one acre, and i» one hundred feet on the main
Itreet, and extends with the ferae breadth to back
fyiet. Also, * Urge Lot, containing pearly tour
acres, f<jpaxat<;d frojn t;hg fcy back llrpct
* One third only of tfce purchase money will be re
quired upon executing a deed, and for the re
mainder, such credit will be given as ths purchase
er may chufe. This property Will hp fold freo •-
all incumbrances, and an indifputaole title givei'.f
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, reading in Bordcntown, near,
the premises, who will shew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, no. 144> Market-street.
f December a. jawtt
Real Estate for Sale,
A PLANTATION, in a healthy and good 0-
jfi. tuition on Chester Creek, in Middleton
Township, Delaware County, containing 1191
acret, upwardt of JO acres of which are wooJ
land, well timbered ; the remainder plough land
and watered meadow-r-of the latter, many more
acres can ba made a( a small eipence. There are
op said premises, a good orchard of heft grafted
fruit, a fioufe, with a spring near the door, a frame
barn with ftablicg under, and a log tenement ou
one part of said place. Any p?rfon inclining
to purchrfc, may view the premises by applying
toWu. Pennbli, on said farm, and know the
tsrms by applying to Jonat ban Pennell, in the
borpugh of Ctcll^r.
November 11. 3* ee( *
To be fold, t
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
Aory brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irish trail lane, in the
towrifhip of Moyamenfing, about one mil- from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particular* will
be made known upon application at the office of
improvements upon this place, for tallc and
el-gunce, Hand unrivalled.
December T. .
All Persons who are indebted to
the estate of William Hevsuam, fen. of Phila
delphia, deceased, are requested to make speedy
payment; and th«fe who have any demands a
gainst said eftat .', will please to present them, pro
perly attested, to the fubferibers.
William Hey (ham, 1
Robert Hcyjham. > Executors.
Francis Bowes Sayrc, j
n,vernier (~ *aw 4 w
~ LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. y P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE jull received by the hte arrivals from
London and Dublin, their spring importa
tion, confiding of a variety of the latest and moll
approved I.aw Books, which,added tothofe alrea
dyoll band, forms the moftextenfive colledlion ev
er offered for sale in this country. They theiefore
be"- leave to notice, that from the nature of their
conneflicnsin Dublin, they are enabled to (elllriih
«ditiont (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowest prices. The following are among the latell
publications.
Vef-y jua'rs Reports in Chancery, i w.s.
Peake's Cases at Nisi Priii-; ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord Ha-rdwicke ; Floyer's Probers
PraSice in the Ecclesiastical Courts ; Barton's
Trent ifc on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Praflice of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal Aaions,2
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, I* vols. London edi
tloH and P.Ricr catpedl receive ty the firft ar
rival froiA New-York the 6tli vol. complete of
Durnford and Fad's Reports, the id part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, andanumter of
new publications.
June 36.
A pcrfon well acquainted with
book-keeping wnohts^een
many vears "ligag-d inbnfinefstor
be to be employed, either as an agent
or la dor ;or in posting hooks ; ftatini* \infetcled (■
accounts ;or in executing any other kind wf writ- t
ing, 111 French or
A note addrelfcd to J. A. and left at ti is ofiu'e,
will be punduaDy attended to. £
november 30, , 3awtf (
—. j
Thomas Randall, 1
PRESENTS his refpeib to his Friends, and the
Public in general, informs them that he has opened ,
an Office, at bis house, No. Spruce tlreet, for ,
the purpose of tranfailing bufmels in the line ol j
Comnaiirion and Agency, rents and out- |
(landing cbims in any part of the Uqited States.—- .
He flatters himfelf, that frorp his long refidance in
this cpuntry and a general kiu>wledge of it, his fer
cices will be found worthy the notice of those who
may please to confide to him the management of
any of their concerns.
N- B. Security given where required,
nth mo 24 3tawtf
~ FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 75, South
Water-ftrcet,
A general assortment of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattins
Do. do. Luteftriugs
Do. da. Handkerchiefs
Do. do. fewing^iilks
Imperial and Hyson Teas
Long and fliort Nankeens
Quick Silver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes
Assorted Glass Ware, incjfes
White and brown Havanna Sugars, in boxes
Molafles, in hoglheait
St. Croix Rum and Sugar, ip do.
London particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quart-r calks
Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chcfts
Logwood, &c. &c.
7—-tn&f4w JOSEPH SIMS.
For Sale, by the Package,
: For cash, or good notes at sixty or ninety days,
1 *'?■
Book and Jaconet Mullin, plain
stripes, and Checks • AObrted in
do. do. Tamboured \ _ lckaeea .
do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & | "
gentlemen's neck do. J
Jaconet chifiu mvflifl home and the Weft
India market, Pnllicote and linen handkerchiefs,
for do. do printed do. do. common purple and
chinfz lhawls.'
The above goods entitled to drawback on ex- -
portition- Also » few scotch camhricks and an
aflortment of muslin by the piece.
The whole of the above being a cnnfignm«nt
from the manufa<9urers in Britain.
To be seen at William Blackrurn's
Office, No. 64, South Secpnd Street.
Nov. 6. aawtf.
NOTI GE. ~
THE StogkhoWera of Bsuk of thf United
States, are informed th* ?cc»rding to the
Aatute of Incorporation a general Eltdlion fur
twmity five Dire<£lors will be hold at the Bank
of thf United States In the City of Philadelphia,
on Monday the firfl djy of January next at ten
o'clock in the for»n<?on.
And purfuaot to the Eleventh feilio» of the
Bye Lj ws the SlockhoWerf of th* fdiii Btnk
arc'herjby notified to alTemhle in general Meet
ing at the fame pljce tm Tuesday the second
day of January next at five o'clock in the E
vening.
By order of the Board nf directors,
G. SIMPSON. Caftiier.
Second fundamental Article.
Not more than three fourths of tne Ofrecflors
in office, exclusive of the Preftdent, (hall be e-
Isgible for the next fucoeeding year, but the
Direflorwha shall be President at the time of an
Eledlion may alwayjbe re-eledled.
Philadelphia, nov. 18. 1797- f tE
~ noTTc e.
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAFs
and EDWARD FOX'S : Engagements
IN consequence of many having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circumftancesfrom
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Truflees now inform them, they
(ire ready to ifiue the fame to those who may ap
ply within sixty days, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, will beconfidercd as, re
linquilhing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THOMAS YV. FRANCJ,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOS BAKER.
November, 13. tuth&fim.
WTTT ice.
THE partnerfcip between Jobn Instone and
James Bacon, under the fipm of Intone and
Bacon, i« this day dilTolved by mutual consent.—-
Jfcti-pcrfon? who stand indebted to said firm are
reqaefted to make immediate payment of their
• refpeSive accounts, to John Skyrin, on Landen
burgtr's wharf, who is duly authorised to receive
the fame ; and all p?rfons having any demauds a
gainst the said firm, are defied to tiring ip
accounts immediately to him for fettiement.
John In/lone,
James Bacon.
November 10. eodtf
To be Sold,
A Valuable Plantation,
OF upwards of One Hundred Acres of Land,
well watered, in a healthy situation, about
seven miles from this City ; the buildings may be
made to accommodate a large family, at a mode
' rate expense, and poffeflion hyd in a few weeks-.
Part «f the purchase-money being paid, a reafon
abte credit will be allowed for the remainder.
Enquire of the Printer,
november 3 mwfrf
>' FOR SALE,
; By BENJAMIN CLARK,
. No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front ftrests,
• A large quantity of Clocks and
" Watches, jiifi, a general alfertment of Tools,
' Eiles and Materials, co«#lHn j of Clock Mort
-1 ments, eight day ard thirty liour bras* pinions
' and work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, dalles, Puaiice Stone, Emery,
Rott«n Stone, Cat Gut; bench, (lani and tail
' Vices; Turns, Pli.-rs,Chains,Seals,Keys, &c. &c.
*#* Apprentices Wanted.
3 november 3. fftrtntf
f The Hiftorv of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
Ig now in the press, and will be'publifhed,
with all convenient expedition, by ZtCHA
riah PooLSoN,jun. No. 80, CKefnut-ftreet,
• Philadelphia, where fubferiprions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
• according to tbe printed proposals, until the
work is ready for the fubferibei a.
July 18. ' aawtf
Englifli Grammar,
The second eMail, wisb improvtr.MU, 1
ADAPTED to tlie differ«nt classes of learnWi ;
with an apftendix, containing rules, ft,i 6b- '
fervatioJis for a.Tilllng the more advanced indents
to write with perspicuity and accuracy,
By LINDLEV MURRAY. p
" is "a publication of much merit, and fully
anfwets the profeflions in the Title. IJieappen- c
di* contains fane of the bell rules for writing e-'
legantly, and with propriety, that we recollect to>
have seen."
Month'? Review, July 1796. q
" This Grammar is, e" many accounts entitled
to commendatory notice, its matei ials have been
carefully and judiciously iele&ed ; its arjangement ~
is diftinifl and well adaptrd to the purpole ot in- 0
ftru&ion and its expreflioH is simple, perfpicurtns.
and accurate, occ."
See the char alter at, large in the Analytical
Re-view, Juij T
Englifli Exercises,
Adapted to the Grammar lately publiftied by
Lindley Murray, of exemplification of
the parts of speech, inftancesof salsa orthography, (
violations of the rules of fyncax, defects in punc- k
tuation, and violations of tke rules refpe<sling 1
perspicuity and accHracy, deficned f®r the beneiit c
of private learners, an well as for theufe of schools. f
" Wfi hrave heen much pleased with the perusal y
of tliefe Exercifeat. They occupy with diftinguifti- i
ed excellence a most important place in the fciencc
of the English language; and as such, we can
warmly recommend them to the Teachers of
Schools, as well as to ail those who are desirous of
attaining corre&nefs and precision in their native
tongue."
Monthly Review, July 1797* 1
The above Books are for sale at Jos e pll 3c Ja me s
Crukshanks book store, No. 87, Market street. f
December I. 3tavvaw.
N O T I C. E. ;
Al.k persons cdncerned are hereby notified, ,
that the fubferiber intends to apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of |
Stock in tke Biulc of the United States—He for*
warded them under cover of a letter addrdfed to
John Anfley,of London, by the {hip Bacchus, capt.
George, which left this port in June last for LOll
- But that ftiip having been captured pn her
passage and fenttti France, the above letter and ln
clofures have failed in their domination.
Three certificatev v ' z -
Nps. 26325, 263/6, 26327, each for
four (hares, dated January I ft, 1797»
issued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Highcrofg, Gr#at Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia, novemier 8. 2aw6w
Wanted, to Hire,
j\ Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
ft. the centre of the city—for which a generous
rQOS vfll be given; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquire of th« Printer.
Oft. 17. ' eotf
A Compting House to let.
A Mod. convenient Compting House is n<iw for
hire on Rofs's wharf, direciiy over.the arch.
Far terms, «pply to
Samuel Breci, jun.
Nij. 89, foutb Third street. t
Where may be had,
A few bales bf Ravens Duck, and ahout »oo
pieces of ftoutCaiftrafs; 1 frn»H quantity of Mace,
and fnmc higk proof Brandy ; Sherry Wine, Cho
coU'.e in bi>x«s, Window Glass of various Czes
and dimenfwos. Dec, i—eo6t
Samuel & Miers Fisher,
ARK MOW OPENING,
At thtir Warehouse, No. 47, Dock Street, a frelh
affortmcnt of Woolen and other goods, suitable to
the season, received by the l»te arrivals from Eng
land. . '
Tbey have also for Sale,
Lisbon
Sherry"an<l f ln P'P"' kh^5 ' a " d l ulrter c^s
- Wines, J
AlTurted queen's ware ia crates, &c.
loth mr ijd. jw.
j James C. & Samuel W. Fisher,
AT THEtit STORE,
No. J3, corner of Arch and Front streets,
USfrl fax SALE,
Cotton and wortled Hosiery in trunks, affbrte4
A few bales red, White, and yellow Flannels
Ditto futt romall Handkcrchi.ls ,
Ditto Pullicat fillc ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gorrahs
Bengal hlack Taffeties
4000 pieces Nankeens, Mid
Few chcfls best Hyson T«*
AHfo—lsoo boxes best London Window Glass,
from 8 by 6, to 19 by 14—and i f hhds. Glass
Ware, assorted, which they will Aifpofc of cheaper
than any in the city.
noyember sB. .^awtf
Imported ( via New York) on the
(hip Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
sale by tin fubferiber, at No. di, Chefsut street,
between Second and Thjfd. Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Maharagonges CKarconna Dorens
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked muslins
Oiiin Rpmah Bandannoes
Nillas & Pcnfiafoes Chafia Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribboa
MuUMulllunkerchipfs
Patna do. Bpjiares Opium
LeiFerCardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox•
november 17 tuths4w
FOR SALE, si
Joseph Anthony & Co.
No. 5, Chcfnut Street,
* A cargo of choice B©urdeaux Brandy, ift and id
proof, just landed
* is<9 bales of Bourbon cotton of afuperior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
; A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the fi'rft quality
High proof Jamaica ipirits
Old London particular Madeira wine ?In pipes &
do. market do C qr. ca&s.
New England rum in hogsheads
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
, Claret in cases
Spermaceti candles and ftrain'd oil
Prime Boston beef
» Choice Halifax gabion in barrels and half barrels
Do. »Herri do
5 Best Boston Mackaret in barrels of thofall fare.
New-Ei>gland t »w l : »«n
< A few tons of Ruilia cordag-c
' Rufiia feather bedit
Clover and Timothy feed in .jaJJcs
Long whale bone
No 1, a, and 3, Boston fail duck
Alfew chests firft quality Hyson tea.
Carolina rice in whole and half tierce* and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glass war t.
» N ivcsnbcr 8.
, 400,000 weight of choice Sft. Do
mingo COtFEE,
I FOR SALE BY
JAMES YARD.
November 12. diot
For Sale,
• r E
That %veilkft'jivn place, coiled VANDEGRifj's
FHU',, k
ON Ncflfa'miny creek, 18 miles from Phila
ladelphia, on the Neve York port road, -j,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the •"
4>remife»afe a large two (l«y stone houle #ccu
pied as a tveri), and a good one Aory Hone kit
chen, a large frame liable with agyodthrefliing
floor, and l'ome out buildings—alio a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On r\
this place is a moll elegant situation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefham-
iry toitsjundtion wiih the Delaware, and thence G ,
across to the Jerfty shore. It has the privilege G
of one half the tollreceived from the bridge. pi
For terms apply to the StiWcriber, a
MORDECAf LEWIS. G
Vay ,24- jtawtf, ivi
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
Atpaltuible Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-ealt corner of Wat
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State- |
Hoafe square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth itreet ; there are at
present two small two ltory brick houses, and a
number of fms)ll tenements thereon.
Alfa, far Sale,
Two three (lory Brick Houses
With convenient itorca, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saflafras p
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
fourh thirteen feet fix inches. These houses -
ave the convenience of apublic alley adjoining
on the north fide, >nd are a very defirablc situa
tion for a merchant, flour fadlor,or others who F
may haveoccafion for llorage nf goods. This
property will be fold on very m ;fonable terms
forcalh. For further information apply to the
printer.,
July 31. m&wtf
ynjl Publijhed,
And to be had of Messrs. Dokfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Booksellers in fie
city,price on a dollar, twinty-fivc cents,in boards, j
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
.Jane ac. *6t
School Books and Stationary. ;
W. Y O~U NG,
No. 52, Second-flreet, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large assort
ment of Englifb, French, Latin a;•■</ Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. AIJ». fucb elementary books
on Science, as are generaliy read in the academies
and college* throughout tha United State*.
LATELY PUBLISHED^
Sheridan's Dictionary, the filth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo. price 3 dols.
Ditto,large II mo price 1 dol. 75
Ditto, common, price 1 dpi. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paptr ; Bookbinder's Hoards, Pasteboards,
iheathing and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
1 bUnk Books, Wax, Wafer*, and other articles, »f
1 the best quality, used in tie counting house, or
public office,
gr Catalogues of a miscellaneous collection of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. OA. '24. —3aw6w
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage starts fsom the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
- Philadelphia, evtry Tuefiay, ThurJVay, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the iro.-ning ; arrives at Do
ver the flrft day, at Snow.&l the second day, at
Northampton Court Houle the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the palfengcrs find
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leave's Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
> Mon Jay, Wednesday and Friday; puts up at Snow
Hill the firft night, at Dover the id right,and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
j The distance r.n this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles less than on any stage route
between those places.
Too much ca-nnot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
paffcnger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
diftance,/fo good aroad in America,
i, Anguft n. ilim. eotf.
r City of Walhington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
- For the Improvement of the Federal City.
r A magnificentdwelling-houfe 10,QOQ dollars,
k calh 30,000, are 50,000
1 ditto 15,000 St cast »5> oO€> 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cafti 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & cafe 10,000 ao,ooo
1 ditto 5,000 & cafli 5,000 10,000
» ditto 5,000 & cadi 5,000 io,aoo
1 calh prize of to.qco
2 do. 5,000
to do. i,.000 - - iOjQdc
ao do. s°o " " 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
ao© 5° xo,ooo
400 do. 35 * " 1.0,000
l,aoo da. aa - 10,000
ic,oo® do. 10 * ij«,oqq
16,W9 P r ' ze# -
d jj.a6x Rlanks.
y 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. ToCavour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the priae of 40,000 dollars will be 1
Che last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the Last
i but ons :
And approved netc-s, fecurin£ payment in either
monif or prizes, in ten days attar drawing, will
be received Cot any number not
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elsesnt specimen al
1 thrprivate buildings to be in the City ot
Walhington—Two beautiful designs are already
Is {ele&ed for tive entire iront,s on two of the pubiit
-fqilares; Crcuß tbefe isptopofedtuerea
two cetttteand. f our corner toon as pof
tilile after this lottery iAfc*ld, and to cenvcy them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventursrs- ir
the manner defcrihed in the scheme for the hotel
Lpttcry. A nett dednelinn of fine per cent, will
be made to defray thenecefi'ary eapenles ot print
ing, &c. and the futplus will be made a part of
tile fund intended for tibe National UirivcrlTty, to
be erected within th« city of Washington.
The real fecuritxesgiven for the paymaot of tl«
Prizes, are held by the President and two Dire&»
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
>• more than half the amount ot the lottery.
SAMUEL bLODGtT.
,§, Tieketsmay be had at the Bwvk ol Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Cu. Baltimore; of Feter
Gilman, Boston ; o{ Join) Hopkins Richmond ;
and of Richard Weils, Cooper's Feri'y. mwf
FOR SALE,
ey the subscribers, No. it, Pcnn-ftreet,
Ihe Cargo of "the Ship Ganges i '
John GreeifJ commander, fiom Bengal,
ConftjVtng of
Baftas, of various qualities & prices
Coflaes Punjum Clothe
Sanahs Guzzey do.
Kumhums Charconna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys Checks
.Maharagonges Patßa Hhkfs.
Ginghams Mules ul do.
Guzzenas Bandannofcs
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Romaja
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Perftans of various colours
Mock Pulicats
ao© tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges arc now open and exposed sco sale at
that commodious ilore the north w«ft corner of
Market and Fourth ftr«et. Nov. 10.
LANDING,
From on board the (hip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell s
commander, frem London,
60 tons of the best clean Ruffiti
HEMP
60 rates of bottled BROWN STOUT
For Sale by the fubfcribera, No. it, Ftun-ftreer.
Willings & Francis.
OA. 31. d
J 11ft arrived.
From Port-au-?iince, and for Sale b/ the fsbfep
bers, No. at, Penn-flrect,
6ji hogfheads,"\
r!^L iercc ? >Prime Coffee
523 barrels f
646 bags J
Willings & Francis.
oa. it. %
. • -
FOR SALE—by the Subscribers,
An elegant afl'ortment of Madrafs
HANDKERCHIEFS, by the bale.
WILLINGS W FRANCIS,
nov. 21. § Psnn-flreet.
" ~ FOR SALE^
BT THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, firft quality, in
pipe,
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pipes
Lisbon WINE, in pipes
CLOVESand f , . , „ „ . . ,
NUTMEGS f °ft" e latelt importation, in boxes
Spinilh Wool, in Bales, fuitablt for Hattors.
Willings & Francis,
Penn-ftreet, No. at.
Nov. 1. w&stf
A Journeyman Hair-DrefTer,
WHO is sober and steady, and underftandt
his business, may have immediate em
ployment, ein application to GEORGE AB
BOTT, No. 9, Chefaut-ftrfet. Nov. 17.
f eodiw.
■ Imported in the flaipMAN Chester,
f Benjamin ShewiiiL, Master,
1 From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the lubferiber,
No. 11 Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy "1
Irish market clareWfli cases ( Entitled to
, Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback.
1 Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd. ,
t WHO HAS FOR SALE.
» Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter casks
- 1 Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
t> bulhels Liverpool fait,
c Aug. 24. t»t&«tf
' Peals:'s Museum. "
THIS valuable repoficory of the works of Na
ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
" and enlarge the understanding, is opened daily, as
usual. It stands in an airy and healthy fituatiou,
1 and free from the epidemic that at present afßidls
. s ' the eity; it may, therefore, be frequented with
Y the greatest fafety.
; As an Aivufement, the fludy of Nature it the
c ' most rational and pleating : as a Science, the most
fublinie and infinitive. It elevates the mind and
expands'the heart. They
" Hold cmistrft."
Many interring additions have lately been
made to this Museum : and the feathered tribe,
containing a variety of the most rare and beautiful
fubjefta, is now very advantageouily arranged.
Waxen Figures, of Men large as iif.« (foroe of them
s, calls from nature) are here drefled in their proper
10 habits, and placed :n attitudes ehara<Scri<£tic of their
10 refpe<ftive nations. Here may be fecn the Nortk
-10 American Savage, and the .Savage of South-Ameri
,G ca a laboring Chinese, and the Chinese Gentlc
-10 man—the sooty African, and the Kamtfchadale—
,r, with some Natives of the South Sea lilands. The
0 immense variety and interefling diversity which
10 this Museum offers to the view, may be fecn bat
cannot be described with full effift,
1 £5" Price only i-4th of a dollar.
10 bey*. 48. law
to J
io Davis s Law Book Storey
>0 ' A r o. 319, High-Sirtct.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING huCed for some time past in prepara
tion. for removing into hiaprafent houfe,hi' 3
been undec<licn«ceiutyof poftponinguntil this day
"" inforuiiugthe gentleman of the Bar generally tlvro'
the Uftited State* that hisfpring importation <j£
- law books is now arranged and ready for lale, 011
a * terms that hs trulls will entitle him to th»lik«.pre
>e freeace he has expericEced for leveral years past.
>T Catalogues, ooniblning the most varied colluc
lio.-vever imported i«ito thiscountry, are printed
er and will be dcJimered on application.
111 June 27. iaw
Q| Boston Glass Manufactory.
o1 n \ 'IK citizens of the United States are l ereby
| informed, thit the manufacture of Window
!t t G ass is now commeneed at. the Glafi HoitCc in Bcrt
it tor
,f. It is needlefa to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boston Ghfs, as it ii so well known
i r ' throughout the United States to be in every rclpeCt
■el greatly superior to any evrf imported from Europe,
ill It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
, t '. may be constantly had bv applying to Chahle9
0 f Kbpprr, at. the Glass House.
t() Orders from the difrant-States to be addressed to
Mr. Samoel Gore, Cowt-ftreet, Boston. j
Bofton, Sept 30,1797 O 4—2aw6w
fl. Mrffri. Timothy and Mason, Cbarhjhn ; Mejfrs.
Holge W Boylan, Halifax, A r . C. AlejJ'rs. IVilltti
and O'Connor, Nerfsli ; Mr. Ellis Price, Alexandria ;
Mejfrs.Tundt and Brown, Baltimore ; Air.
New-Tort ; and Mtfrs. Hudson stf" GoodwinJjtfrt
ford; JLV. Seymour, Sava«Mik-*~€rc~rtqacJlcd to inferf
the above once a 'The a:c punts to Le for
r u-ardid to the E«rlor.
A