gajette»/ M States, ifPhiladelphia Daily Advertiser.
TUESDAT EVENING, FEBRUART i A , 1797. [VOLUME XI.
NUMBER 1.384-] .„ . . , „ . „ ~ i "V-na<T cr A K
Mrs. Grattan J
RefpeAfutly informs the Ladies and Gentlemea of the 1
City, that the 4th j i
LADIES' CONCERT
Will be on TUESDAY, the 14th day of February,
at the AJJembly-Room. I p
Acr I- 1
Overture, - C '~'
ScouhßalUJ. «"• I tal
uutwtuU ' om trf,
Clee, Webb,
Act 11.
leffnt, fiant forte, Mrs. G»atta*> Cltnenti.
7j' . iacchmt, ail
$Z . D "*y- , on
Mrs. Orattan keg« leave to Inform the Ladies and I
Gentlemen, that the fubfcriptien-Wk is at I wi
No \Q, North Sixth-street, for the reception ot thole da
name? who wilh to honor her with commands. th
A fubfeription for eight nights 16 dotlars, mduding a p t
Gentleman and Lady's ticket, each transferable so
Half fubferiptions 8 dollars, including one ticket. w
Single ticket 2 dollars. P l
*1* The Co»cert to begia at half paftfix ; and at ea
half pafVeight, the music will attend for the Ball. 1 v
February H - j j,
College-Hall. I
Rbadings and Recitations, J
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
On TUSEDAT E VENINC, B
february 14th, at 7 o'clock,
Will be recited 1
Seleftioas from the tragedy of J
HAMLET, 11
yjPitti a Crsti«»l TnvrfliVafion of 01 , I
and Observations o« ikaklparc. I
Tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfon, jnn. at the Library ;
itmr. M'Elwee's looking-glass-store, No. 7«> S; url " I
ftrcet; and at Mr. Carey's, BookfeJer, Market-street— J
Half a dollar eaeh.
On THURSB Y, February 16,
f 1 RST I
Anthony's Funeral O.atio*, Sh l jkefpeare I
Cat >'sSoliloquv on the Immortality of the Soul, .rtddiion. I
Ode 00 S'. Coecilia's Day, pc ' I '
SECOND ffART.
The Story of Lavinia,
liwm iMri Emma, I
Maria, hrft a..a second part, *' e "£-
Ode Mjdnels, Penrolc -
THIRD PART. 1
Ode on the Paffiios, j 1 " 1 ' 1
Alexander's Feast. ____Dryden._ 1
WASHINGTON LOTTERY, Nt.ll. ' j
List of Prizes and Blanks.
6ad Days Drawing, February 4. j
Jfo. Doli. No. Dots. No. Dots No. Dtls
-86 10218 *1649 36448 10
ai* 43* 456
( 350 Iio8» 10 23148 10 59* *• I
357 m 30 s 37370 20
1118 100 964 473 38453 IO 1
4293 I® 12730 50 593 J4*
375 10 134*64 ?4133 '48 j
519 10' 26* 476- 746 -—1
3253 10 736 847 851
321 934 *5013 39°5*
704 ic 14103 10 245 120 10
807 820 27! 657 I*
901 15233 4ti 40162
904 *39 »0 16495 J&7 JO
4084 461 984 41010
113 712 tl9 17257 10 31® 25
454 16010 303 »® 4230® lo
622 083 694 500 10
735 to 28143 819
964 317 a 9HS 10 895 10
5193 10 338 1® 499 *98
207 885 670 99 l
724 17363 773 43*47
7 j2 JB4J» 3°OC3 4439 1
. 813 847 496 10 494 50
824 19732 10 31357
943 10 916 390 o*o
6051 3°3 2 4 10 540 904
399 356 949 10 j
673 703 10 3 2 316 48092 10
jiio 10 79 1 .33*37 II?
349 Biq 267 79° Jo
809 10 11045 268 10 49157
856;, 143 34416 ?I4
918 162 35i'9 616
992 501 384 Jo 635 10
9499 10 563 409
540 10 22472 ic 36384 10
63d Day's ©rawing, Febrtiary 6.
JV». Dtlj. No. Dolj. Np Dels. No. Deh.
28 995 2 *5312 3475° 1®
773 1® 10306 10 26063 353'5
1091 .12714 647 10 38103
Jls »5 »5*24 .793
782 956 *7355 43*
2603 16531 358 10 454 10
300© 10 9rS 762 610
319 10 17000 18x36 3915 1
519 171 160 4<W°4
4601 499 *97 3'3
684 18129 29163 41667
J133 xo 315 438 42749
465 361 976 43I** '9
510 1® 977 10 3009® 44*158
617 10 19440 xo 125 J.o 45784 19
631 10 20199 763 990
6129 479 976 46182
7066 B®6 10 979 49 1 10
584 »iißj 10 31903 508
8916 12795 3121* 524
.6209 ie 958 894 47 6 5 iJo
58* *37U 33*89 755
815 847 .1® 699 38922 00
834 *4*59 9 86 49450
838 311 34J47 JO 49 1 JO
A Wet Nurse.
WANTS A PLACE,
A YOUNC Woman, with a good bread of milk. She
can be well recommended. Enquire at Mr. Mor
row's, Gun-Smith, opposite the State-HQufe, Chefnut-
Jlreet. February IJ. _
A D
If Monsieur G. H. Sohzs,
•Who left Bordeaux the 10th June last, and arrived
at Bolton ibout the middle of Asguft, in the schooner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is requested to call on
Joseph Anthony & Co. No. j, Chefnut-ftreet, who
will give him some information of importance
'.December 14, 1796. j
Pantheon,
AND RICKETTS's AMPHITHEATRE. Ps
For Ehusstrian and Stags Performances. _
Mr. & Mrs~~SP IN ACUTA
RESPECTFULLY inform their Friends and the ru
lie in general, their 'ocrieit is fixed for
Tiit Svtuing, th* st!
When no exertion# will be {pared to reader the Enter- fr
taUuuenu of the evcniHg novel and gree&bie. vc
Among the entertainments will be
Tight Rope Dancing. r
On which Mr. Spinafuta will periorw the following
alUniQiing feats : viz. , .
id The wooden (hoe Dance—ad H&will fit on a vfiair
»n the rope, balance a table before him, and taite a glal* an
of w ; ne —3d He will pirform a comic dance in which he ; ro
will throw half * Somerset backwards and forwards, ana th
dance upon his ihins instead of hi? feet—4'h He will
throw himfelf into the air and perform the Double Ser- to
penteaux —sth He will for the firft time this season, per- ni
form a surprising leap, over a garter ten feet high, back- th
wards and forwards, without the balance pole; he will
put half a crown on his foot, throw it into the air, and
catch it in a glass, will play several favorite airs an the
Violin, with variations ; will go through the manual ex
ercise with th« American flag ; will ascend and deicen
the deep dart of the rope leading the Pit, and perform
many surprising feats never attempted by any bat tum.eu.
Horfemanlhip
By the Equestrian Group.
Surprising Feats hy Mr. Sully, as Clown.
Ground and Lofty Tumbling,
By Messrs. Ricketts, Franklin, Hutchins, Sollyj »»<i
Clown Mr. Spinae^ta.
Equestrian Exercises,
By Mr. Rickett., who will perform a variety of aftooifh
ing feats, never done by any but himleli.
A comic Burlstta, called
Tfie UressTn&-RoonT ;
Or, THE INTRIGUING FRI3EUR.
Sir Jeremy, Mr. Chambers
Puff, (the Barber) Mr. iully
Lady Jeremy, Miss Robinson
Bccly, Mrs. Chambers I
Cornplanter, f
Will take off his Saddle and pick up a Handkerchief, at j
the word of command v
A favorite comit IRISH SONG, by Mr- Sully. '
Between the intervals of Stage Performances, 1
HORSEMANSHIP, e
\
A NEW PANTOMIME,
Nevcj* performed here, got up by Mr. Spinacuta, cajed.
The Magic Fight ;
Or,
The Little (Sripple Devil.
With new music, changes ;.sd decorations.
Harlequin, Mr. Sully 1
Don Ferdinand. Mr. Durang
Alphonfo, (Lover) Mr. Jones f
Picnoi Mr. fepmacut*
Donna Elenna, M»s. Spinacuta
Little Cripple Devil, Miss Sully
Benevolent Witch, Mr. 60
Gunners, Mcif F' Ricketts & Coffic
Supernumeraries, by the »*eft <>t the Company.
fh the cuur/c-pf the Pantomime, *vill be the following
Changes ,
jft. THe Magic Bottle. a«L The Enchanted Trunk
3d. The Maeic Post ; frdm which will rjft the Sixteen
States of America, and the Wonderful Bouquet.
4th. The comic scene of the Pastry Cook Shop.
stk. taken by the Sup«rior magic of the
Cltwn, o«d fired frpm a Mortar into the air.
In which will be introduced, by particular desire, the
laughable DYING SCENE
10th. The Clown seized fry two DEVILS, and hurried
through.the air.
Seventh and last change.
An Exlla View of the Delaware and Jcrfey Short.
To conclude with the admir'dSONG of
THE WANDERING SAILOR,
Br Mr. Chambers. ,
Doors to be open at five, and the Performances to begin
prteifely at a quarter pail fix. >
Tickets to be had at the usual places ; at Mr. O'Eliars s
Coffee-Houfe ; where places for the Boxes may be taken ;
also at th* bar of the City Tavern ? Mr. Simonet's Pastry
Cook'fhop, Newmarket ; and at Mr. Spinacuta's, No. 11 j
fquih Fifth-ilreqt, corner of y/alnut-Ilreet.
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was bought for Ten "Ihoufand
Dollars.
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to iS feet.
He eats' ljo weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water ; he has drank some days forty bottles of porter,
3 ' drawing the corks with his trunk.
He is perfe&ly inoffentive; travels loose, at the
rate of five ruiles an honr, and is the greatest curiosity
ever brought to this Continent-
He is to be seen 'till the 15th of Jan«ary, in
Market-street between Third and Fourth-streets/ at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him—
after which time the former priee of half a dollar will
be refunied.
He will leave Philadelphia at foo.n as the weather
will permit.
December 31
Pennfylvaqia Population Company.
NOTICE is hereby given, to such Share-holders as
as have not paid their afleffmertts on thcirfliares—to
pay the fame immediately to the Secretary of the Compa.
Ny, at the Compaay's Office, No. 53 north Fourth-flreet,
Philadelphia, l'hey are further informed, that in default
of paying the fame within thirty days from the 4th of Fe
bruary, instant, the feveraf forfeitures will be ftri<ftly ei
a6Ud, in conformity to the lift article of affoeiation.
' By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Secretary
Feb. 1. 4— *33
- For Sale,
At the Office of the Editor of the Gazstte of the
United States,
l, e A FEW COPIES OtF
>r- fAn account of the Receipts and
It_ Expenditures of the United States, for the year 1795."
Mr. Pickering's Letter,
ed This Day Published,
>« AND FOR SALE BY THE EDITOR,
011 Price three eights of a Dollar.
ho THE Letter of the Secretary of State, to Mr.
ney, Minister Plenipotentiary of thf Uoited States, to
he Fi-enfh Republic February 9. 6t
A Principal Book-Keeper
IS wanted in one of the Public Offices. Enquire of the Res
Printer. » February 10 §6t g
______ — — 11
co Dollars Reward. "
_ /
LOST, between eight and nine o'clock, 800
as the fubferiber V2s going to his honfe at the Fails of Jacc
StViuylkill, tivti the house of his i3ther-in-law, Mr. stri
Francis Steww: r , in 3u»ai -ailcy, between and Se- ?i n <
venth-ftrcets, atov Market-street, Tan
A black POCKET-BOOK,
Containing Ix9o Dollars, in Bank-Notes
From 5 to 100 Dollars each, 800
One of which was the of New-Yerlt, j^u
and several papers, tuch as recei ts and orders.— the Dac
road the fubferiber fook, was the Falls road, croiingat Tar
the Upper Ferry. . Poc
Whoever finds the above Pocket-Book, and returns it Car
to the fubferiber at the Falls, or tb his father-in-law, Xal
mr Stewart, living in Sugar Alley, shall be entitled t.O Hu
the above reward, paid by Wc
JAMES HAFFY Dir
Feb. 3- Me
— Tai
A Quantity of Brandy, W
FIRST & id proof, 1
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes Lir
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds Po
Old Hock, in cases' of 40 dozen e,ach )
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different lites
Hazlenuts, infacks '
Whiting
te,d {
k Spanilh Brown J
For Sale by J»ETER BLIGHT.
January 4 ft
ant! Watches.
LESLIE anu PRICE,
No. 79, Market-street, Phuadblbhia,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, a lirge aflortment *f WARRANTED |
WAtCH ES, esnfiftiiig of horizontal, capp'd aiid 1
jewel'd Gold Watches, with fecotds, of superior
workmanlhip and eleganoe ; also capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches j capp'd & jewellM, capp'd,
seconds, day as the mouth, and plain Silver Watches ;
eight day & chamber Clocks.; elegant French Clock. ' r
with marble frames ; eight day anjl thirty hour, brass _
works, &c.
December 22, 1796. .
i 4 ive Dollars Reward. o
LOST, about ten dtys since, a small SPANISH DOG,
white, dappled with yellow—fcarpears, l'mallhead,
1 long hair, incliui«g to curl; occasionally limpt on one —
hind leg ; aefwers to the name ps Damon. Wheevcr
will bring him to No comer of Spruee and 3d
streets, ihall receiye the above rewarij.
February 9 tf&t3t
. _ , - si
JUST ARRIVED, 6
By the Danilh lhip Friendihip, captain Matjen, from t(
Oporto,
iled Port Wine,
in Pipe*,- Hogiheads au«l Q«aTter-Calk§,
iSO Boxes of Lemons,
For Sale by
Philips, Cramond Is" Co.
'■ February 9 § r
.. Frejh Qarden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, isf c. is?c.
Thi* day landing from the fliip Eagle, captain Fofdick, t
from Londow, ,
And FOR SALE by s
GOLDTETWAIT & MOORE,
Comer of Walnut and Second-streets,
A mojl capital and xxttnfive Assortment of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
' r ROOTS, &c. &c.
>, Among which are,
* Five kinds Asparagus Thrc kinds Crefles
y Four Berecole Twelve On.on
1 i Twenty-five Beans Thirteen Radilh
I Six Beets Fifteen Turnip
Eleven Brocolij Fifteen Feas
Twenty-fix Cabbage Six Savoy
Six Carrst Four Farfnip
r Three Cauliflower Twenty-three Melon
Five Celery Twenty-one Lettuce
Ten Cucumber
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled lsaf and sprigged Parsley
'' Pot Marygold Pot Marjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek Kail Shallots
y Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerne
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. #cc.
in With a curious colle&ion of the moll clleemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the moll extetilive ever imported into this city.
* The above are from a capital Seedlman in Londen, and
are warranted frefli and good.
er Printed catalog:* > may be had by applying as above.
Oec. 17 §
— —— r
A PARCEL OF VERY FINE
St. Croix Sugars and Rum,
a * JAMAICA SPIRITS, and
t0 AC.UIRA HIDES,
,a " For Sale by
Feb. 7.—s2w JAMES YARD.
Twenty Guineas Reward.
* RANAWAY from the fubferiber eft the 23d OvSobar,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 21 years .
•Id ; about s,feet 8 inches high ; had on a mi*ed green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yello.w buttons ;
- a striped vest ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change
, his name and dress. He has been accuflomed to driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for fccuring him so that the fubferiber may get him
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
I£ * Robins Chamherlaine.
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 §im»awtf
X? NOTICE.
THE Sales of LANDS of the United States, in the
North-Western Territory, heretofore idvertifed
in the several public papers, will commence this eyen
ing, at the City Tavern to be continued from day
:k- to day, 'till the tenth of MARCH next, if not sooner
to fold.
January 4 i
" I
Mms. G RATTAN
RefpeAfully informs her friends, and the public in
general, that on T»>efday the icthdayr of January,
ihe oropofes opening, at No, 39, North Sixth
ftrcet,
A Linen and Muslin Warchoufc»
Book Muslins, from 6/3 to 12/11 per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to 9/8 per yard
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to loflC per yard
Fine Coffees
Tambour'd Book Muslins, from 13/ Vto zf / P* r y ar^
India Muslin, tfom ti/5 to lif per yard
Sheeting Muslin .
Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, from 4vi to 6/ per hdkf.
Book muslin Handkerchiefs ftom to ic/6 p*r hdjtf.
Moflin color'd aitdborder'd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchiefs
Tambeur'd Cravats from 10/S to lifil
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/3 to 16/5 per yard
Table Cloths
Huckabuck Towelling
Womeu'i Cotton Hose, from to Ij/perpaip
Dimity from £/io to 6/w
Men's Silk Hose
Tambour'd muslin Handkerchiefs from 1 i/i I to
(fifh linens for Gentleiren's Shirts, from S/S to Wf
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, rufljed or plain, CrariU,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, &c. &c.
HouflioM Linen, &c. &c.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 3 dollars,
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, j dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 6 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and marked, J i-» dollar*.
A full ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 1-2.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 1-1 dollar*.
A ycry fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Linen iucluded.
Junuary 13. $
FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP MART*
. SAMUEL PARKER, Mastek,
Xwo hundred tons burthen. Apply
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, foe will tajc
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
i October 31. d
Mahogany and Logwood.
A Cargo for Sale on hoard of the ihip Sally, captaiq
Gelfton, just arrived from Honduras.
Apply to
; PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co.
- February 9 5
i Bank of Pennsylvania,-
January 4, 1797-
At a meeting of the Directors this day, a dividend of
sixteen dollars on each lhare was declared for the lift
6 months, which will be paid to 'the Stockholders af
-1 ter the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Gaftner,
Jan. 5. dtf.
DANCING
TAUGHT JS V
MRS. B r R N,
Of the New Theatre, To LadUf only.
- ' I 'HINKING it a great advantage for them to have ft
, JL female Tt.tcr in that ;irt, pledges herfelf to their par»
ents and friends to take allpoflible care in their inftruition.
In addition to the Dances taught in Philadelphia, means
> to teach the Minuet, Minuet de la Cour, Allemand, Ga*
Tot, Quadrilles, Strathspeys, and all Scotch Dances ; and
above all to pay particnlar attention to that very necessary
part Polite AdJrefs. For particulars enquire of Mrs. Byrn,
No- 70 north Eighth-street. Fcbrury6 mwftf
PURSUANT to a Resolve of the Board of Trufleei of
*» Washikcton Acadimy, in Sotnerfet County, and
State of Maryland,
NOTICE is HEREBY GIVEN,
es That the office of Principal Teacher in the said school |i*
m vacant.
fh \ GENTLEMAN qualified to te»oh (he higher Greek and
ip J\ Latin Classics, Geography, and the Mathematics, with
as such other blanches of literature as are ufuaiy taught in fueU
oy schools, would meet with liberal eneouragement, and, it if
I believed, would obtain a very eligible settlement. Foi the
present, the Truflees would be willing to contract with a per*
[an capable of taking charge of a Grammar S. hool.
" As this Institution is provided with buildings fufficient to
accommodate the principal and his family, and from seventy
t» eighty boys[; a library, an excellent philosophical and ma
thematical apparatus, globes, maps, &c; has refpettable
funds, and ii situated in a plemifgl and agreeable part of the
country ; nothing seems wanting'to make it rank among the
mofl ufeful fenvnaries in this part of the Union, but a iuiublc
charafler to pfefide in it.
Proposals may be addressed to the fubfsriber, in Princefe-
Anne, in the neighborhood of the Academy, or to Doctor
Martin -E Hay Nil, No 83, north Third-street, Phil*,
delphia, or to the Printer hereof.
d EZEKIEL HAYNIE.
January 20, , Feb. 7. tu3tfßw
This Day is Publifhetf,
— B.Y Mess- Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the other
Booksellers, price One Dollar and twenty-five cents, elegant
ly printed on woye paper, and hot.prefled, by John Thomp-
A COMP ARATIVE VIEW OF
The CONSTITUTIONS of the federal States,
With each other, and with that of the United States:
exhibiting in Tables, the prominent features of eaehCon
ftitution, and clafing together their most impertant pro
yifions, under the several heads of administration ; with
, ar Notes and Observations. By William Smith, of South
:ars Carolina, LI. D. and member of the Congrcfs of the
een United States. Dedicated to th» People of the United
as; Slates.
ln( j N. B. A few Gopies printed on an inferior paper, at
tige 3-4'bs of a dollar. February 6 raws
j n
be For Sale,
By G«orge Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
:f Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
— and half barrels ..
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
the Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
ifed Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or single one
>en- Dry Codfifh, fronl one to fifty kentals
day Fine and coarse Salt
iner Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the Rone
and ground, for manure and flucso-work.
December I, tth&fWill be Sold, by Public Vendue,
On the gtb ej March next, ■ ■
A PLANTATION,
IJ4 Ridley towoftip, Delaware county, fijte of Penn
sylvania, eleven miles from Philadelphia, and one from
ti>e groat road leadiog thence to Chester ; oontai ning ane
jiundred and twenty-three acrei, twenty-three of which
are woodland, and eighteen meadow. On the premises
there are, a dwelling-hosfe, barn v and other oui-houfes,
in goodrepajr; a good fpringof water elofe to the house,
sqd a fine stream of water runs through the prtinifes; by
which pait of the meadow is watered, &c.
ALSO,
On the fame day, the flock on the said farm ; confin
ing of horses, cows, (heep, hogs, &e. A cart, plough,
harrow, and other farming utensils ; also a large copper
fli'l, with the household and kitchen furniture, among
whl> r i are beds and bedding, an eight day clock, and ma
ny other articles too tediousjto mention.
The sale to begin at tan o'clock in the forenoon, where
the conditions will be made know®, and attendance given
on the premises, by CURTIS LEWIS.
Ridley, February TJ 14 —tthf tM?
Will be fold,
/ On Wednefdav, lie 22d day of February, injlant,
Ac the Merchants'Coffee-Houfe,
At 12 o'clock, noon,
A Lot, or Piece of Ground,
Containing iz acres and too perches, situate near the
Blue Ball Tavern, on the PafTytink road, four miles
from the city of Philadelphia. This Lot commands a
view of the rivers Delaware and Schuylkill, is,nearly index
ed with a good cedar pofl and rail fence, and hasa never
failing spring of frefti water rising in it—One acre of
which is good bottom meadow—adjoining lands of Willi
am Bingham, Esq. Jacob Sink, a»d others. The terms
of sale, one fifth papt in ten days after the day of sale,
when immediate possession will be given, the relidue in
payments agreeable to the purchaser, on paying legal in
terest therefor, and giving security for the fame, if In
quired. An indisputable title will be given, upon mak
ing the fir ft payment as aforefaid.
A Draft of said Lot may be seen at /the Merchants'
CofFee-Houfe, and at the office of Alexander Power, No.
X 45 Chefnut-ftreet, where further information may be
had. Philadelphia, February 14 §tza
CUSTOM-HOUSE, February 13, 1797.
Sales at Auction;
AT the Custom House, on Monday next, the aqtk in
stant, at 12 o'clock, for payment of duties, having
remained in the stores beyond the tim 6 limited by law, the
following goods : viz.
IH A tub of Brass Kettles
THI Seven boxes different fpecimeni of Minerals
C4.p
j. One box Playjng Card*
-PS One ditto Paper
TC
1 & 1 Two boxes Pamphlets
WB Three calks Wine 1
A box M ill Saws
I M Six pockets Cotton
J C M One box Pamphlets
I§T I a 3 Three boxes Books
W M I Si l Two boxes ditto
T D 101 One bale Girth Webb
One box Pamphlets
T W'One cafe Women's Silk Shoes
One chest containing Cloth
One bundle Bags
§ R No. 4 One trunk Worded Taffcls
One bundle supplejack Oanes
t)n« box Candles
One ditto Soap ,
Two fault boxes Linens x
The Goods may be viewed at any time it 'the morning
of the day of sale. (Signed) SHARP DEL ANY,
February 14 $ tM Colteftor.
To the Benevolent.
THE Subscriber having rented that well known tav
ern house, on Silver Springs, Cumberland county,
on the great road leading from Philadelphia to Fort Pitt,
wbich he had completely furnilhed for the accommodation
of travellers, but which unfortunately, by
fire about II o'clock in the morning, the 3d of Novem
ber last, and in the space ©f one hour was totally confum
cd with all the furniture, wearing apparel, stores of li
enors, &c.' to a very large amount, attended with the me
lancholy loss of a daughter about twelve years of age
who only furviveda few hours after the fire ; his wife al
f° disabled; and others of his family much hurt * he is
nov. reduced to an unhappy and deflitnte fitua'.ion—he
therefore begs leave to foliait some reiief from a generous
public. The following gentlemen are pleased to undertake
the trouble to receive fubferiptions for his benefit: viz.
Samuel Richardet, Merchants' Coffee-Houfe ; James
Thompfoa, Indian Queen ; George Irwin, Croft Keys, in
Fourth-street, and John Dunwaoey, Spread Eagle, High-
Areet ; DAVID BRIGGS.
Philadelphia, February T4 tth&ltM (
For Freight or Charter,
O HE is-a good velfel, fails fall, carries
O about 500 barrels, and will take in
Freight to proceed Coastwise, or for the Weft-lr/diet.
For terms apply to Emanuel Seaward, mailer, on
♦card, at Arth-ftreefwharf, or to (
ISAAC HARVEY, Jus, ;
_ , No. $ South Water.street. ,
•February 14 . !
TOR SALE, ON BOARD SAID VESSEL, '
A few coils Cordage, '
CANDLES, and
SHOES.
New Theatre. T
}''SD.\FSBAT EfFniaG, Feiruarv , 5>
Will be'.prefented (for tins sixth time) an Hiilorical Play,call
ed
Columbus ;
Or, A World Discovered.
To which will be added, a Farce, called
The Ghost.
Sir Jeffery Constant, Mr. Warren I
Captain ConlUni, Mr. D ar | eyi iijn.
Clinch, Mr. Morris
Trusty, Mr, Fraucis
Roger, Mi. Bate.
Belinda, Mrs. Harvey
Dorothy, Mrs. Francis
Box, One Dollar cents. Pit Seven Eighths
of a Dollar, and Gallery, half a dollar.
0- Tickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's fiook-ftore.
No. jo High-flrect, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requefUd to fend their
Servants to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and
to <)rder them, as soon as the company are f«a*td, to
withdraw, as they canoot on any account be permit
ted to remain.
The Door, of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precifcly at 6 o'clock.
Places far the Boxes to i;e taken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from 10 till 1 o'clock, and from
Uil 4 0a tbt daj» cf performance.
fir AT RES FUEL IQA S
BOSTON, February l. ,
St. CROIX BOUND ART.
1h a matter wherein the infereft of this "
much concerned, our rea&ra in»y wish t* I know its
true fltoation : -
In the month of Atlguft, 1756, the two original
Commifiioaen, Mr. Howell, and Mr. Barclay, met
at Halifax, in pßifuance to the sth article of the
Treatypf Amity, Commerce and Navigation, with
Great -Britain. The two Conrmi(£®ner«, on tire
89th ot that month, appointed by iflloice,* (not by
lot,) the Hon. Egbart Benton, Etc. one of the
Judges of the Supreme Judical Cou t of the ftaie ,
of New-York, the third Commiliioicr. On the j
26th September, Mr. Benfon arrived fiom New-
York and met'the other coEimilStinert at St. An
drews, near the mouth of the two river* for. which
the partiee contend at the boundary. Tliofe rivers
are four leagues apjrt at theii mouths, where they
empty their waters into the Bay of Paflamaquaddy,
'near the Bay of Fuody : bitt nhey diverge, one
to the weft, and the oiker to the north, so that their
heads, or iVurces, art at a gr<»t dillance from each
other.
On the sth of O&ober, the Commissioners took
the oath as required by the Treaty ; and appointed
Edward. Winflow, Esq. of Frederiekftou, in the
Province of New-Brunlwick, (formerly of Plym
outh, in Maffachufett*) Secretary to the Board,,
and the oath of fidelity was administered to him.
The Baard being thus formed, the agent for the
United States filed his memorial, requesting thatthe
eafternmaft of the two rivers, called by the native
Indians theMagaquadavie, should be declared to be
the river St. Croix, truly meant and intended,' tin
der that name, as the boundary mentioned in the
Treaty of Peace made in 1783. And propoling
to offer evidence, and arguments to support his me
morial, if the agent of his Britannic Majesty should
deny, that to be the river intended in the Treaty
of Peace as the river Saiat-Croix.
The agent for his laid Msjetty being Served with
a copy of that memorial, Sled another on the behalf
of his government ; therein stating that the wcllern
of the two rivers, by the native Indians called
Scondiack, Ssint-Croix, truly meant and
intended under that name, in the Treaty of Peace ;
and refuelled that the Beard would declare that to
be the river so intended and afligned Hirers reasons,
and arguments in favor of his memorial.
The foiircc of the river is very important in the
business. because a line js by the Treaty to be drawn
due north from the fouree of the river C 6 the high
lands, as the line the t-vro nations. Two
lines drawn, due north from the source of the two
rivers above mentioned, will be nearly about sixty
miles from each other, and extend from the fu neai
ly one hundred and forty miles.
This dillance of the two lines, from'each other,
is as they are severally dated by the agents, in their
several claims. The British agent, claims the Btoft
western of the Scondiack Lakes, which it near the
river Pcnebfcot, as the fouce of the river Scondi
ack, and the agent for the States, claim* a place
on the Magaquadavie at the source of that river.
Which is right, or whether either is so, is to be de
termined by the Board.
The Commissioners are obliged to declare which is
the river truly intended as the St. Croi*, in the
Treaty, and to determine the, latitude, .and longi
tude, of its mouth and source. To this end, sur
veys of both rivers became, necessary. And one
from the United States, and one from the
Britilh Government," were appointed to survey
each river: Those artists returned from the business,
on the last of November, having not then completed
their work.
The Commissioners after taking the testimony
of some Indians, produced by the agent of the
United States, as witnefTes, and after determining
on the mode of admitting evidence, establishing
the rate of wages of theartifls and labourers employ
ed, adjourned to meet in Boften on the second
Tuesday of Augoft, 1797. It is agreed, and deter
mined, that the arguments shall be in writing, filed
by way of memorial before the Board, dating the '
evidence ; and that the Secretary (hall prepare, and
deliver one copy of the whole to the agent of eacfe
nation, to be by him delivered to his" government.
The argument on the part of the United States is
diredted to be forwarded to the agent of his Britan
nic Majesty, by the firit day of February, i jgj ;
that he may have time to prepare his leplv
By this mode of procedure the public will have
on paper, the proceedings of a Judiciary Tribunal,
appointed to decide between two sovereign inde
pendent nations, upon a cause of magnitude and
importance.—Why should not ail the natiow an the :
earth, determine their difpntes in this mode, rather
than to choak the rivers vritfa the carcales, and
stain the foil of continents with their llaui! The'
whole business has been proceeded upon with great ■'
ease, candor, and good humor.
CONGRESS OF the UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REYRES E M T ATI V rS»
Monday, January 16—Continued.
Mr. Gallatin's speech continued.
Again, that tax, he sard, would not oily fall equal- I 1
iy upon the people, but also upen different djftrifli P s
country He would fay that if he were to chufe be- 1
tveen Atax en fait or one on land,' he Siould certainly 1
prefer the latter, fines the inhabitants ©f his diftrifl '
would be »our tunes more aiTefled by one than the o
tiier , because, being very remote from market, their
and » comparatively finall value, but
fhey use nacre fait th an per font living nearer the shore,
and would consequently pay twice as much according 1
to their numbers as perious nearer to market, while in ,
a land tax, they would pay one half, in propprtion to !
their number ; because their land was of left value in '
proportion to that of an equal number, of » £r f on , ] iv .
ir\g nearto fca ports.
Nor w«s this all ; he looked upon a tax upon fait of 1
so unequal a nature, that there was scarcely any tax .
which he would not sooner agree te. You may, said -
UPO ", * e 1 eertain *■"«»».
they »ill be borne ; but the moment you add to them,
you overset the whole. In parts very remote from the
ea fait was at an enormous prtte. It might be said
the enereafe of a few cents could not be much • but
Jt Were ever Ktk it
would be wopoflible lo pay it.
1 Having made these eb!ervst:ene in fait, he would
readily agree with gentlemen that a direct tax was noi j
a vcrj agreeable Thing. lie felt hirnfelf, and he knew 1
his coriftituents would feel, that it wai worse than no
tax tl all ; but, he believed, except the import on
some articles could be advanced, they had no resource
biri in direfl taxes.
Jf they find a tax on fait, or upon stamps (a mofl
ediousthing) cannot be laid, they must havejecourfe
to a direfl tax ; and if it could be done with propriely
it should b l -" done. _ \
He would notice only one femark which fell from
the gentleman from New-Jersey (Mr. Henderfon.)
He mentioned three articles upoh which additional
import might be laid, viz..clocks, watches and tea.
IHe said he ought to have credit for his ingenuity; finee
! those were three articles which were more fmugjled
into the United States than any other, and the duty
upon which, on that account, it had b<cn contemplat
ed to lower. He had also mentioned the sale of public
land. He believed no great expe&ations'coiild be had
from that quarter, as no towuftiips' were expe&ed at
prdint to be fold. Besides, if money should arise
from the sale of land, it could not go to pay the 6 p«r
eents. They must be paid out of the {revenue. On
reference to the adl, this would be seen.
Mr. G. concluded by fayin <, he dii! not mean at
present to enter more into the fubjetf <sf direfl taxa
tion, as what he had heard against the iyftem was of
so trifling a nature as not to dcl'erve particular notice.
Mr. Muhlenberg, from the committee to whom it
was referred to report whether any and what additional
Handing rules were neceiTary to be added to tliofe al
ready adopted, reported the following -. " That every
member prefeflting a petition or memorial, shall ll«te
its contents, and if it appear in substance the fame as
has been already decided upon in the Houie, it fioall
not be received, except new matter of faifls appear
therein?'
A bill was received from the Senate, for giving
forceand effe& to the laws of the United States :n the
state of Tt-nneflfee, which was twice read and ordered
to be committed to a committee of the whole.'
Adjourned.
Tuesday, January 17.
Mr. R. Sprigg prel'ented a petition from Samuel
Green, deputy postmaster of Annapolis, praying for
an enereafe of falary.—Referred to the committee on
the ißbjett of port-office and port roads.
Mr. Huncok presented the petition />f Griffith Grif
fifths, a soldier in "the last war, praying for compenla
tiori. Referred to the committeeclaim;.
Mr. Madison moved th at the Heufe should resolve
itfcjf intc a committee of the whole, on th« Algerine
business; for which purpose he fuppefed It would be
necessary to clear the house and galleries. Thty were
ac'eeidingly cleared, and the business occupied -the
house for the remainder of the-Day.
Wednesday, January ig.
Hie house being in a committee of the whole on the
fubjeS of further revenue, Mr. Dent, in the cl.air.
Mr. Williams said h« c«uld have witoed that the mo
tion for portpouing this bufnufs had succeeded, in or
der that the house might have gone into a committee
of the whole on the report refpefling the military erta- 1
bliftment, in order that it might have been ascertained
whether certain deduflions which were contemplated
would not take place. He trusted they would, which
together with certain dedu<slion» from the naval esta
blishment, would considerably reduce the sum propo
sed to be raised by a direst tax. He thought therefore, 1
it had been better to have gone into the lubjedt of ap- 1
propriations before they eame to a cftnclufion on the -
present, business. For bit own part, tie said, whatever 1
ium might be wanted, it was his opinion that it would |
be best to raise it hy indiretl taxes j lince he could not
confentto grrjnto a fyrtem of direfl taxation, until in- ■
direfl taxes should be exhaufled. But he believed if
the prefect revenue was not diminished by unforefeen '
difficulties, it wpuld prove equal to all the demands |
which mijjht come against it. This being the (jafe, it I
was only necessary for them to organixe a direfl tax,
in order to have it ready to be resorted te in cafe of ne
cessity; end, in that cafe our citizens would meet it
with cheerfulnefs : He was teHfidsnt that our govern
ment eould'be supported by direfl taxes, and he wish
ed to convince other powers that this was the cafe. He
despised the cringing to auy nation. Let them, said he,
mtw*upt our commerce, yet, oa our ground, we can
adrend ourselves.
It appeared to him that a dedufli«n night be made
from the naval department of 218,120 dollars, which
was the ellimate for seamen, since, as the veffcls were
not built, nor would they be for this year. In the re- '
port of the committee to whom it was referred to en- t
quire whether any and what amendments were neces
sary m the afl for the military eflablifhment, it was to t
e 1 ccomr*ended to flrike out the dragoons, and eight I
privates to the infantry ; but he thought" these would
not be wanted in the peace eflablifhment ; there would
therefore be a dednflion of the dragoons. There
might also be great deduflionsin the commiffaty's de
partment, so that in the military and naval departments
there .mighf be a deduflion of from 6 to *oj>,ooo dol
ars, probably more ; and if so, a small sum would on
ybe wanting. But if it should be supposed otherwifc,
then it would be necessary to raft absut for the best
m.ans of ra.fmg the money. He believed the m.de
proposed by the gentleman from S. Carolina ( Mr. Har- a
P "Ju u r I" , ; "" eafe to certain of the imports duties 1
we be the best. A considerable augmentation might *
nortM T°/ VP M rtvrnuc from foreign spirits im- v
ported. It would not, he supposed, be proper to aug- r
ment the imp oft duty, because it might lead to fmug
g g) but an additional duty might be raised from it •
by way or exede. 1
The present fyft £m 0 f excise en winc an(l fpirit3) r
he laid, was ungual, and only one fourth part so pro- «
u 1 it might be. And indeed if by an increase
1 xt 7, t y °" e tllird of the should be used, f
tie calth and morals of the people would be le!* in- |j
Ct i P re^el,t ' f a 'd, it was notorious, that ma- c.
Ny of-tlie Europeans coming into this country, and find
ing pnitsatfo low a price, fell into the immoderate 1
«.°t- them, arid thereby rendered tbemfelves incapa- 1
i. e °' f ufeful as artizans or farmers'. Any tax, ''
iiere oie, whii'h would have a tendency to prevent tjiis
exee s, would not only benefit the revenue but prefe:ve a
the morals of the people. Mr. W. had it from the 1 /
h° -n!"' t ' lat ' n * il ® war, one of the 1
befl Hntift regiments, lying at Albany, though when
es came there they were a sober and discreet let of '
" HOl 'heir being able to get spirits at a ve- 3
ry ow price, they could not refrain from the u'ft of c
them, and became mere foU.
. h c present mode of colleding the duty on fcr- t
eign lpints was unequal, because five dollars were J
pain ora licence to authorize a person to fell spirits. si
and the like sum far wine, and ona wht> fold only n
30 gallons in a year, paid at much as he who fold 0
jo timet as tnudi v 11-.is licence, he'faid, lay hard e
up®" the lower claft of people in the country; be- li
"ttle, in the interior, of the country, a retailler 0
wonlH°k ' ' ™ ore t * lan 30 gullont a yeat, which g
w-uldbemofHyufed by sick perfont, and code
quemly the tax fell very unequally - but if person, t
re to pay in proportion to the quantity leld, the r
produce .which at present w a . .58,000, might be '
T u*'! 10 tfiree or four times as much. t
it been %p o fsd that an additional duty t
I gtthtoe tfc,\ m;n fair.; but., U bc-,,j^! v
: ;^; : V & c " lU " u fr*>. ft« (Mi-.
Callann) u was ucc diary to »* with cauno „ ro
taxing thatari.de, because it would iai | ve un !
eqnally. A. far as „ wa3 used b n '
operate as a poll-tax; but with refpert to caulc.
the farther they were removed f rom thc [n c(jaft
the more lilt was.pecefcry to be give., the*. The
farmer near the sea coast, ufcd H0 Uh fm h;s £
tie ; but those in the remote parts of the union were '
obliged to use corfiderajde quantities at a very hiVt,
price ; an actional duty on fait would, theref.fe,
be more burdenfdme to farmers i n general than
would be a land-tax. The only recommendation
winch a duty on this article would have, it would
be certain; but, as it operated so unequally, this
tax ought not to be gone i«to, or at leaf* nog-rear
augmentation should be made. If a land-tax w-»
net agreed to, however, a small addition miaht !»
mads to the present duty. 8 ' be
Admitting that the plan proposed by the <™ n
tleman from South-Carolina, of additional impofi s "
be the bed, the committee of Way. and Meani
might pe left to judge upon what artisan i ncr eaf«
of duty would be most proper. He fhoald
to be made chiefly upoa articles of luxury and ex
pense, but would leave any calculation upon the
fubjeA to the committee of Ways and Means.
He understood 60,000 dollars had been receired
for lands fold agreeably to the a& of l a lt feffir, nj ,-f
that aft had allowed the apportionment *f the
hind in small lots as was then fiiggefted, much more
«f it would have been fold; as the opinion of the
majority had however been found to be wrong, he
trusted it would be remedied this feflion, that'tht
sales might go on again, and that some very con.
fiderable might be had from that quarter.
In levying taxes, he said, we ought to have two
objedb in view, vir. the strength and wealth of our
nation ;as to the strength of oar nation, it was '
derived from the number of its inhabitants; it,
wealth from the furpluj produced by agriculture.
' ' !i «T should, thciefvrr. be gfc«rcful hciw
they madeinfutigements on agriculture.
Hiftoiy, Mr. W. said, informed them of the
annihilation of Nations by means of direst taxation. '
He referred gentleman to the fuuation of the R O -'
man Empire in its innocence, and aflced themwhe.
ther they had any direst taxes? No ; indiveft tax
es, and taxes upon luxuries and spices from tht
Indies were their sources of revenue ; but, ?s soon
as they changed their system to direfi taxation, it
operated to their ruin ; their children were fold
for slaves, and the Empire'fcll from its splendor.
Shall we then follow this system. He trufled not.
Mr. W. said notwithilanding his objections to
direct taxes being adopted at the present time, he
had no objedhoij t« the organization of a plan which
might be resorted to, i n cafe of any unforefeen
embarralament befalling our commcrce.
They ought to consider, he said, that the con.
ftitution the United States guaranteed to each
individual state, a Republican form of government,
bom* of those governments he said, were fuppert
ed by dtred taxes, and the reafoo was obvious, '
they had no other means of railing the money.
"I his being the cafe, and the constitution of the
United States haying guaranteed that right, how,
he alked, were those state« wha supported their
governments by diifft taxes at present, to answer
the demands of both claims on their lands ?
A tax on land, Mr. W. said, must be very un
equal ; because there was no way of reaching the
reonied men, who lived fn great cities, and tho'
large holder# of land, their land was in the hand*
of their tenants who must pay the tax. There
would not be less than-jotnillionsof propetty which
would escape a tax of this kind. The tax would,
therefore be unequal ; and he knew'no way of co
ming at monied men, uulefs, as in some of tho state*
men should be obliged to come forward and swear
to the fuias of money they had ori inteiell ; hut
this, he said was multiplying oaths to no effefl.
Bcfides, Mr, Vv. said, our country was io fitutr
ted, that there was 'great difficulty in getting a
land tax with any certainty. I Q the fiate of Dela
ware, Rhode Island, Conne£Hcut, and s great part
of New-Jerfeyi it might be got at by valuation ;
but in other parts it operated veiy unequally. Nor
did he agree with the gentleman from Pennsylvania
(Mr. Swanwick) that the land tax in England did
not operate equally. The land tax theie was laid
by valuation ; it was true that it was eSimated in
the Doomiday Book ; but, ihough-rt -vas unequal
at fiift, it had been remedied by time, becatife when
land was transferred from oneiiand to another, it
was bought.according to the high or low price at
which it was taxed. If it was valued high, it fold
proportionally low, and if low, high in
but, in a new eouotry, like oura, he said, it wag
impofiible to lay a land tax wish any degree of accu
racy. In European countrit/, he said, the Com
moualty did not hold land. It was in fetv hands ;
but was this the cafe hoie > Or was it wifted to be
so ? Here, he said, the community at large held
land, every man, comparatively fpeakinjf held his
iarm ; or if they fop.id a difficulty in getting it,
ihey went back into the country and affilted in clear.
ir.g frefh land. Nor ought this desire ofpoffefli;.g
lain! to be checked.
Another thing, he said, they ought not to lay
a tax that ofie citizen should live upon another*
Although the gentleman fiotn Pennsylvania (Mr. »
Gallatin) supposed it would not cost more than
7 j-2 per cent, he brlieved it would cost more than
30 per cent, and if so, the public officers live upon
those people who pay the tax.
Mr. W. said it was notorious that we had already
too many officeis. Let any genthman take up
Neckar on the finances of France, and it Veuld be
found that there were mare officers in this goveiß
tnent than in France, m proportion to the number
of its inhabitants, before thfr revolution. He hop
ed, therefore, they would net be inereafed. Be
sides, in thus creating officers, the frugality and
oecanorrty of a republican government was in a de
gree destroyed. \
But H wa« said hv mercantile gentlemen, that
the farmer did net pay his proportion of taxes. Ve
ry few obfevations, he thought, would prove this,
I he common farmer, he said, paid a tax according
to his crop j if he had but an indifferent crop, he
bought but little m««ha«di« j jbut ifhehifla goad~he parted with hj? money fieely. Some
times, indeed they get crcLit from merchants, upon
the profpeft of a goad crop, and ifthey were dis
appointed, diftrel's and ruin wcte fomctimcs the
consequence.
It was well obferted by the gentleman from
' Peenfylvania (Mr. Gallatin) that the only difficul
ty there was in collecting taxes from farmers was
owing to the want of circulating medium. The
common farmer, he observed, had little to do.with
money, he lived moltly by ba'tering one thing for
another. A common mechanic in a town had more
money pafl through his hands than a farmer in the
country.
But, Paid the gentleman £rom Pennfylvaoia (Mr.
Swanwick) thefarmers are becoming rich. Sup
pose they are, were not pcrfons in cities ally grow
ingrich? Did lands in the courftry, he asked, riff
equally wich lots in the city ? Did the rentss»f far
mers increase with the bouses in the city : He be
lieved not, but the advantage was in favor of cities.
He would aflc how many farms in the country let
for a fun equal to that gentleman's hotel and cir
cus over the way, viz. 500! a year ? That gentle
man had charged gentlemen with voting away mon
ey for the Federal City and other purposes, with
unconcern, because the money was railed from cam-1
ujerce ; but, he would aik whether the farmers vo
ted for building frigates, and what his observations |
were when voting for a naval armament, a treaty !
with Algiers, &c. These were not for the interest
•f the farmer, and still there was no difficulty in
nifing money for these purposes. The next view
that gentleman took was on the banks of the Hud
fsn, to fee the farmers there fit at their ease, whilst
the peer merchant could not deep for fear of his
property at sea. If that gentleman was fond of a
rural life, h« said, he should be glad if he would
come and live beside him. It might add value to
their count ry. He had no objection to his enjoy
ing hit pleasure in the way he liked best, and he
hoped he would permit them to enjoy theirs, which
he believed equal to any thing which eould be found
in all the luxuries of a city-
It had been said that it could not be ftippofed
that a farmer paid any part of the duty of gnods
fold by If merchants, he said, made had
calculations, and ordered more goods than he could
dispose of, was the farmer to be injured, because of
his folly ? The farmer femetimes mifcalcula<ed as
well as the merchant, and was sometimes obliged to
fell the whale of his produce, 3tid his farm too, to
pay his debt. But would gentlemen fay that mer
chants had not gone on wrong principles, and in-
Head of making their remittances in proper time,
had gone into land speculations, and feme of them
having gone into rhe carrying of contraband articles,
lad from (tep to step augmented our difficulties.
Merchants, he said, should Follow their true in
terests, and then they would not beembarraffed and
obliged to fend their goods to vendue to make good
their payments again at the banks; but if they
would not attend to their business, could the for
mer help it ? For his own part, he viewed all these
matters as tending to one point 5 things would by
and by find their level. The merchant would find
his true interefl ; the country was growing rich ;
luxury and Wiffipatnrti, be believed, had outrun po
pulation ; hut, he expected things would soon re
medy ihemfelves.
He was willing that the system of direst taxation
fhonld be brought forward, and organized, that at
a proper time it might be carried into effect.
He thought differently from the srentleman from
Pennfylvaniii with refpeft to the eff'e& of a land tax
on emigration. The fertility and salubrity of the
climate were such as to tempt people to Aome to
this country, but a land tax would rather deter,
than encouiage emigration. Mr. W. wished to en
courage commerce as far as was confident ; but not
so far as to injure agricultuie. The wealth of this
country, he said, arose from agriculture ; it was
froip the surplusage of agriculture that all our im
portations, and consequently the imports were paid
for. Should they rhen check it ? It was from
agriculture and rural life that population was en
creafed : From agriculture the mih'tia, the bulwark
of our nation, was supported ; a<id whilst it fur.
nifhed freight sos our vessels a. d those of foreign
countries (the fifheries excegt-d) should they ehe k
it > He thought not. He hoped, therefore, they
fcould do nothing more at prefeni thao organize
the system. This being done, we cfn have ra
L j course thereto, 111 cafe our commerce should be in
terrupted, or indircA taxation be found inefficient.
Mr. Craik said he should not follow gentlemen
through all the argument used on this occasion ;
because he thought a greater part of them inap
placable. He believed the question before them was
one of the most important which had been agitated
in that house since the adoption of the present go
vernment. And however gentlemen had attempted
by the course of their arguments to divert the at
tention of the committee from it, he hoped they
would not ftiaceed. He trolled the ingenious cal
culations of the gentleman from Maflfachufetts
(Mr. Varnum) intended to lead the committee to
believe, that instead eif improving the revenue, they
might look out for objects of expanse, as the reve
nue was'mure than ftifficient to defray the current
cxpenfcl, would have little cffrA. And when told I
by the gentleman from New jersey (Mr. Hendrr- i
son) that it would be a fubjeft of great irritation ; j
that it was an unpopular question j that the public 1
was not ready far it, it was enough to alarm the
house ; but he trusted such insinuations would have 1
110 influence upon the deeifion of the question.
He thought the good sense and undemanding of J
the house, exercised upon the materials before •
them, would point out the necessity of entering I
fully into the present business. There could be i
little doubt, he said, that revenue was really want- '
ed. He believed that the incorrect statement of *
the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. Varnum) '
had been Efficiently expefed by the gentleman '
from Peanfylvania (Mr. Gallatin J. The only 01- J
ganized system grounded upon an opinion that re
venue was wanting, was that which had been in.
troduced by the gentleman from South-Carolina !
(Mr. Harper) and he thought from the principles '
contained in that plan, the question before them !
had a strong claim to attention. He believed
that refoluti«n went to cftabliflt the principle of \
necessity to go into the plan- proposed by thr present
1 report.
The observations which had been made on the
; present question went more to the quantum of re
venue, than to the principle ilfelf- When they
1 were told they were not to meet the present propo
. fition, because it would be unpopular; because
j viewed as an engine of government—an unwieldy
; machine in the hands of governmeut, not to be
1 brought into operation. Such expteffians might
r create alarm ; but it was neceflary to fee how they
: were founded.
: Mr. Craik said when he looked at the situation
of the revenue, and saw the reliance which was
, placed on foreign resources, he was convinced of
the nreeffitv of adopting the ptefent measure ; and
when he reflected on the motion f or putting off the
r present question, by means of extending the iodi
re6l taxes, he was disposed' to apologise for the
present fyflem ef revenue laws. He believed they
owed their origin to exiftingcitcumftancfs. When
, the present federal government was erected, ir was
. confidcred in the namre of an experiment ; it went
into operation with fear and hope; many werenp
pofed to it; and it might be eoafidered wife and
politic t the time, that the people should have an
, opportunity afforded to examine the system, and
' that nothing should be proposed to them of an sr
i ritating nature, but that every thing should be
j carried on in as easy manner as possible. It was
probably on this account that a system of direst
taxes was not proposed to the people at la early
period.
He believed that it was a measure of policy,
which could not be questioned, that every govern
ment ought to arrange its taxes, so that eyery man
of property fiiould pay his equal proportion of them.
He believed that it was neecfTary for that purpose
to have both a plan of dirett and indirect taxation
in operation at the fame time, as when every man
bore his proportion of the public expense, it drew
tighter the hands of connexion between the people
and the government. Was there, he asked, a gen
tleman in that house, whole observations did not
furnifh him with inftauccs under the present system,
of wealthy independent farmers, felling, perhaps,
from a thoufand'to fifteen hundred bufhelsof wheat
in a year, who were so isolated by their situation,
their economy and frugality, as to make their ewu
deaths, to eat their own prodbce, arid to drink the
juice of their own fruit, and who, therefore, pay
nothing towards the expenses of government, ex
cept a few cents duty upon the felt used ? Was.it,
he sliced, right and proper, that such a dcfcription
of pofons should be excused from bearing a por
tion of the public burthens ! He thought it was
not. Thi,s affdrded one reason, amongst many,
in favor of originating diredt taxes. But there
tjvere others more weighty. Was there a man who
looked at the situation of our country, and saw the
precariout foundation on which its finances flood,
who did not tremble for the eonfequeuces I It was
not necefTiry, he said, to draw an imaginary pic
ture, nol- to excite alarm ; it wss not uecefStry to go
into calculations of what was probable ; so be re
fp'-fted abroad, it was necessary revenue should be
iiimly eftabhfhed. He believed it wu the Gwewof
government, the oil which was to keep the wheels
of it m motion.
[[To be continued.]
■AND
Ph'tladelphiaDaily Advtrtifer.
PHILADELPHIA, February 14.
Extras ef a_ letter font London, Die. 4.
" Since my refpetf s'to you of yeflerday's date, no
thing new has occurred, nor should I again have fu loon
written you, if it was not to fay, tlut the few lift days
as a paper of the firft instant, accompanying this, jtiftly
expreffi » it, have been the proudest ones ever Old' Eng
land saw, infomueh that true born Britons, have with
eagerness strove who should be firft tofubfci ibe his par.
tion of Mr. Pitt's voluntary loan to carry on the war,
if neceflary, for another campaign with vigour. ,
Bankers began with one hundred thousand pohiuls--
twice the money Mr. Pitt requires would have been
fnbfcribed if government had kept the lift open. With
the most fisrvent hope that this measure may have its
due weight with the French dire<flory, and be the means
of restoring that blefiing p«ace, lam &c."
Married Thursday morning at the Friends Meet
ing H ufein Market-Street, John Esq.
Bucks County, to the amiable Miss ElizaßsTk
Langoon, of this city.
Mr.FINNO,
IN al! the tranfaaions of our State Legiftatures for
lomc months, I have net o'oferved that any attention
has been given to tnat.heretofore much labored point
the mftitution of public schools 1 to pals over other
things, the time spent in opposing an address to the Pre
sident, after what has been done by former legislatures,
would have been amply fuffieient to the adjusting and'
maturing this important plan. Every hour's delay in
so momentous a business, is of weighty importance to
the interest of Pennsylvania. Since, if the establish
ment is to prove beneficial, the sooner we are put in
pofi'effion of the benefit, the better. If it is to be re
je<fied, it ought speedily to be determined on, that forae
fabflitute may be found ; and of the one or the other,
it is on all hands allowed we Hand in the mofl. urgent
seed : let us be relieved then, from the uncertainty we
are in, that we may know on what ground we Hand. In
the impottant point of education, as well as most other
improvements in civil life, it is seldom found that we
remain stationary: we eitffer pro, r refs or recede it is
a home question, but the seriousness of the considerati
on demands it to be put. Is not the latter at present tilt
,cafe with us ? Is a competent education' within the at
tainment of the generality ? On the contrary, is it
not lamentably confined to a number exceflively fmaU
in compat ifon with the whole mass of citizens ? As we
hope to fee perpetuated that free government we have
inftitnted, for the preservation of peace, liberty and
happiness amongst us j and as we expe& to hand down
to after ages, blefliwgs foimmenfe i so ought our anx
iety to propagate information, to inform, enlighten and
educate the whole community, to be continual and un
ceasing ; and may we not learn too late that these are
the only means in any wife adequate to this great end
CHARONDAS.
A writer under the signature of «a citizen' in the A
merican Daily Advertiser, and tranferibed to be sure
into the Aurora, threatens a ferits of numbers in which
he promifei to expose Mr. Secretary Pickering's rta
foning in the late important communication. The me
nace of jacobmifm we have long learned to defprfe,
whether it appear in the unwarrantable liberties ct *
foretgn miniver's not.-«,_er in tbe very equivocal drefi
of Fr'onchify'dcitizenihip—lf thi? hancfl citizen go on
, as he his begun we fcall be under nete- obligations to
hit employers: he attempts to ridicule the Secretary,
(fcndof course the President) because he has rtly'd up
on that expofitien to the motive# of the old French ca
binet, which that cabinet gave to the world, and which
tbe late French committee repeated as a mark of the
detestation due thai very cabinet—H« vindicates the
French cabinet from the charge of felfijhnefiy by pro
ving thatthey were too prvfli*ate to be credited. To
destroy their Gncerity in evil and sinister motives, he
pledget himfclf to their insincerity and total indiffer
ence to truth—this it a precinut v ndication. Thit
species »f morality in the very frent of the attack on
tht President sets every mind at ease—ingenuity thu»
eroploy'd will never do mifehief. The bosom of every
man (who it not a Ftlcfofer) is agaiaft fush an exa
miner.
A Correspondent informs the Street Commiflioneri,
that there is a large hole in the pavement in Mulberry
street, nnrth fide, just below Fifth street; at thit hole
commenced (as the writer believes,) between one and
two years ago, ami lias been progrefling in size ever
since, until at length the pavement it fcarrely pafTable,
the writer supposes the Street Commiflionert have not
been able to drfeernit, therefore gives them this public
information ot the nmfiince.
KxtraS of a letter from a refftOable Merchant in
London, to his friend in this City, dated Decem
ber 2, 1796.
My dear Friend,
I think it will be some fatisfaflion to be inform
ed after all has b-en fjid upon the fubjeft, that the
Minister of this coantry does not meet with fueh
difficulties as have been foretold in railing a fuffici
ent lum of money tor the fuppliei of government
for the year.
At a general meeting of the proprietor* of the
Bank stock yesterday, it was announced by the
governor, that Mr. Pitt proposed to th* public an
open ioan to which every man might fubferibe
what he thought proper, aboveone hundred pounds. 1
Suffice it generally to fay, that the terms are not
equal to an investment of money in the five per
cents, at the prcfeiit price, viz. 87 per cent—yet
not far short perhaps 3 per cent—the amount asked
for, eighteen million pounds sterling : ift payment
2d January, ad, March 3d, and 4th, between then
and O&ober 1797. The Governor fait: thefenfc
of the Dire'lors had been taken on the occasion,
and it was propufcd that the Bank in its collective
capacity fubferibe one million ; and the directors
in their Individual capacity four hundred thousand
pounds—that on the following day and iubfequsnt
ehes, books would be open at the Bank to receive
public fubferiptiuns. It was then (after some pro
pofals relating to the sum to be laid down b,y the
Bask) allied, by a gentleman present, if books
fould not be immediately o lened to receive the names
and Itims of the gentlemen present ? None had been
pitfp«red, but in about ten minutes books were
got, »fid before night fix millions five hunufed
thousand pounds were fubferibed ; and it is thought
probable that in the course of this day the whole
18 millions will be filled Up in tbe bo«ks at the
Bank only, and that by the City of London. 1
may be under error but'l will hazard an opinion
that if the Minister had aflced a voluntary loan of
it-hole sum without intcrcft, be would have
pre.fii.ed it.
Loßdhn, Dec. 2.
INTERESTING I a formation.
Extras of a letter from Sap,, fkyard, Efq/to the.
Chairman of tkc jG&mrriittce of Merchants of this
City, dated London, zjth November.
Tl ' ere hive cases heard by the lord*
of appeal, since their meetinfthia term, in all of yrhfch
they have rever'cdl the decreetof below
- in one (theEctfy, Betterton*) with cod aiiS damage*,
in others with interest from the time of condemnation,
and the colls of appeal.
" After deciding the lift cafe, that of x the Jane, Lil
libridge, they formally gave notice to the praters and
agents, that if ,n future they should bring any mere
such cafct before them, wiien they could not reasona
bly expert the fentencesof condemnation to be affirm
ed, they might depend 011 being adjudged to r<?«ore
the American property vfrith full coflis and damage."
BALTIMORE, February 10.
About eleven o'clock the evening before last, a
of thieves were discovered to be in theftore
of Mr. Marsh. in Howard street. Notwithstand
ing the drifted fcarch was made for them, a
they were so old in iniquity, as to elude the vigi
lant-? of their pursuers,* all except one (about 12
years old and not so great an adept at thebufinefs)
who was apprehended and made to- inform of the
reft. They were four in numher, all French Weft
India negroes, and belonged to one man ; nope of
them-appcared to be older than 19. It is supposed
they fktilked in and concealed themselves in the
eveniug ; and had they been able to have cleared
themselves with their booty, might have preferred
that mode, during the existence of patrelei, to firing
and pillaging. They had nearly broken open a
desk, before discovered. This should make peo
ple examine their houses well before they commit
themselves to deep.
CAZET7E MARINE LIST.
arrived.
From the Hook.
Ship Ann Sc Mary, Billis, Charleftoo
g Kin S' J ere ™ ! «
Molly, Reynolds, Hifpaniola
Suiannah, Fitzpatrickj .Bourdeaux
Sally, Hawkins, Aux Cayes ]
Little Maria, Duncan, Malaga
Amaziele, (Swede) Matt, . ;• Oporto
Johanna, (Dane) Tiefen, Hamburgh
Schr. Commerce, Marnell, P. P r i„ cc
an< *> Alexandria 1
Schr. Juliana, Stevens, Boston
Friendship, Monteath, Jacmel
. Poll y- J cn kins, Savannah
Sloop William, White, North Carolina
Lively, Hill, \ Snowhill
Jack, Burrows, St. Thomas's 1
Maria, Young, p ct ; t Quave
Schr. Juno, Marriot, Boston, (via New York) 4
Sloop Nancy, Seward, Newbury Port 10 ■
Galliot Cbriftiana (Dane) Clink, New-York 4
Ship South Carolina, Carman, Charleftoo
Columbia, Mason, Amft.tdam
Brig Vig.lanof, (Swede) Richter, Leghorn
Schr. Industry, Salter, Pertfrnosth, (N. H.) '
Hat not, New. York
i i
il Jrefi February 12.
igoon Barque Jupiter, (Swede) Schales, Marfeillei
ious to Ship Two Sifters, Henry, Port-au-Prince
reiary, g c jj r> Pitman, Plat Form
' chc !,; CLEARED.
which Ship Noith America, A. Coffin, Londonderry
of the Brig Fly, Hubbel, Petit Guave
:es the Schr. Helena, Plumftead, Van Duyon, Port-au
-7 Pf°" Princc
° Slo»p Mary, Saunders, Frederickfbargh.
' Fram, the Log Book of the Trial, Knox, from
Thit" Hamburgh.
ick on Dec. 13, in lat. 33, 59, long. 37, spoke the
y thus fcheoner Speedwell, St»ry, 13 d-rys from Boston
every to Gidii, all well, had met with ve-y hard gales,
i exa- J an . fpnke the ship Independence, 18 days
out from New London to the Weft Indies, had
l berr ' experienced very hard weather 011 the coast, antJ
1 hole , ' ,e w ' ,o ' f °f *>is live stock off deck
ie and J'" '3» b«arded by a British privateer of
e ever 6 guns, and politely treated.
Table, Cipt. Filzpatrick of the Susannah, from Bor
/enot d eiuX| spoke in lat. 22, 48, N. long. 32, 30,
?u lc the brig George of Boston, from Cadiz to Bof
int in ,on ' out 4° da y»-
ecem• anee ' was tp fail about the
lOth December last, from Bordeaux for Baltimore.
The Sloop Julian, Robefon, of this Purt is ar-
Form- r ' vcd ,l Norfolk from Hifpaniola, diftmaftea, and
.. atherwife in great ditfrefs.
r , SALEM (Malftckurrttt) February *.
fu e|» SHIP NEWS. 3
iffici- In our last, mention was made of the feiiure of eaptaia
meat Elkins't (hip at Barbidoet. It appears, by intorraation fine*
received, that ftie was merely ordered to lie too under the
. stern of a sloop of war, and examined. X hr 'e of her hands
1 the were preQed on ike morning of her arrival, but two of them
r the were returned in the afternoon, and the other was expe£te4
ic an to k" delivered up Coon. The information that the eaptaio
'■ h was enfioed on (hare alio appears to be premature. He did
11 ® not find it perfe&.y convenient to htave do n and repair b(S
lindl. (hip at barbadoea. and was in cxpettation of going to Mar
-1 not tiniijiic foi that puipnfe
I p cr PORT or BOSTON, February 4.
Arrived, tchconer Ranger, captain Eafterbrooks, i« day
— y ß ' from St. Bartholomews.
ifked Capt. EafWWioolu informs, that the Grand Turk, of New
sient *ork, fn»m India, wat taken, inlat ao, bvan ship,
then and ftnt int ' Dpminrca tbe December, where (he was
immediately difmiflcd, sud failed the lame day for home.—*
lenle She wat soon alter takan by a Frcnch privateer ; and after.
fian, wards retaken by s Britilh 64 guu (hip, and fellt into-St. *
stive Kltu - He also informs that a ftiip from India, uime no.
,1 known, belonging to Providence, has been takeu and carried
' * to a French port; whence {he was cut out by a Britilh armed
iland schooner, and carried into S». K,itt«.
usnt NEW-YORK., February ll.—Arkiveb,
:eive Scbo . aner Regulator, Woadbridge Jamais*
pro Sloop Lvdia, Bradley Boftaa
, he CLEARED.
, Ship Geaeral Washington, Steel Londonderry
1 Ihe Pigou, Sinclair, from this port, is arrived at
smes Cork.
bees The Faflor, Kemp, from New-York; and the Con
were cord, Huffey, front Boston, puffed Gravefend 011 the
4th December.
[Je j,t NORFOLK, February 4.
i t Kxtradl from the log book of the (hip Bowman, Capt,
Dickfon, arrived here on Wednesday, 9 weeks from
t,l<: Amsterdam.
> 1 January i», in lat. «i, long, jj, spoke the ship
nion James and William, of Norfolk, captain Wonnicott,
II of 84 days from St. Übes ; drove off the coast', and then
have Sanding lor the Weft-Indici. Supplied hirn with beef,
br«ad, and potatoea.
Capt. Wor.nieott had fpoka a sloop, the master of
which informed him that he was 70 days out from A»*
, guilla, in want us every kind of provisions j hid also
> tne. bore jw j y for the Weft-Indiet '; that when on the eoaft
tn " he had lien two brigs and a (chooner wrecked.
, . Yesterday arrived here the Hoop Julian, of Philadel
°r " phia, VV. C. Robefon, maftrr, 65 dayt from L'Ance
veau (Hifpaniola) in diftreft, ha zing carried away her
le ' ow mail in a heavy gale on the ajth December last. Oa
tfon*' tha I ! th n, Janu "y: if !: lat -«> SO- long. 71, 30, for
■tlon> tunately fell in with the brig Sally of New-York, Wei
fter Brown, master, 5 days out, bound to Jamaiea,
> who relieved them with a barrel of pork, two thirds of
s and a barrel of begf> 4nd a birre , brcjd . the fioap wa(
IT Bre entirely out of ptovifion at the time/>f falling in with
lona- ,h e brig.
of bactiuori, February 10.
» entered.
Ship Columbia, Town, Liverpool
ft, a Mount Vernon, Brooks, Rotterdam
store Becky, Conyngham, Cork
and- Juliana, Hayward, Hamburg
rems Brl « Sall s r ' Bcat r> St. John'*
vigi- Sandwich, Fisher, Antigua
tIZ Diamond, Jones, Liverpool and Norfolk
iefs) ° rion ' Stlaw » Liverpool
"the P8r S a ' P'" 1 '?'. Naflau (N.T.)
Vest Two Brothers, Stodder, Pcno .scot
ie of r o^. 4w ' c ' Havanna
ofed Sifteri, Bya« f Cape-Francoi»
the Pc 2By» G»rfuch, Jacqucnwl
ared Godfrey, Jones, Halifax
rred J»y-Bird, Burgcfs, Cape-Francois
r * n S Baldry, Gonaivct
-n a Dorchester, Booth, Porto-Ric»
peo- £ oll T' Brown > Norfolk
amit wa B rother «» Gland, Do.
Sloop Robert and William, Watts, St. Martin'*
L)olphin, Russell, y Jacquemcl
Clarissa, Rottenlar, AnnapoS*
Polly, Mann, Alexandria
Polly, Oifford, Annapolis
The ship Birmingham, captain Harrifon, failed
from Liverpool for this port on the aßth of No
rton vember.
liola The WrigCommerce, captain Tutell, was to fail
from Liverpool for Alexandria on the ?d of De
:aux cember.
ayes .
la £ a Notice
ort ° To the American Sailort returned from Algiers.
Ir gh -you are requested to call at my house, on Thurfdav
irice A the 16th instant, at ten o'clock, to rceeive the nio'
dria B< T l -collcAed for you. ST. MARY,
ifton „ , 33» Market-street;
rmel
>nah Wants a Place,
A S Y A i TK r R iB a e entlema n't Houie, a younr maß '
. Ir° '/ Ved sot a time in Lncof the
las's firft *» us " in the city, and whose characler i, f ur . .or
nave W °"! % r a fi "E le gentleman t« attend on him
IA. tt DirC * lons left the New York and Baltimore
in Ie > f * ut b 4th, near Market street, for R H
will be attended to. February r, >
ftoo Partnerfliip dilTolvcd.
dam T HIS is to notify the Public, and all pcrfons concerned
lorn ■*". thit the Partnership of BLACK W WELI s J <"
H.) e "' a wasdiflblvedthe firft of Jaauw-y
r °rk PWdelphi,, rebnury , tl t W *° £ * RT £LAC^
*City of Washington. j
S chime of the Lottery, No. 11, for the improvement
of the Federal City.
A magnificent ) 20,000 dollirs, & ? •
dwelling-houfo, 5 caih 30,000, are J
1 ditto 15,000 & cafe 25,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cafe 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cafe 10,000 ac,ooo
1 ditto 5,000 & cafe 5,000 10,000
x ditto 5,000 & cafe 5,000 10,000
x cash prize of 10,000
ado. 5,000 each, are_ • 10,000
to do. i,»oo - - 10,000
20 do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. xoo - - xo s ooo
aoo do. 50 - - 10,000
do. 25 - - 10,000
1,000 do. 26 - 20,000
15,000 do. 10 ■ 150,000
16,739 Prizei.
33,261 Ulanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will be received for
any numbernot less than
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be Cr cited-in the City of Washington—
Two beautiful designs are already lcleiied for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings
it ispropofed to erect two centreand four corner buildings,
as soon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the foftunate adventurers, in
the mannerdefcribed in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
the necessary expenses of printing, &c»*>and the surplus
will be madea part of the fund intended for the National
University, to be erected within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
old off.—The raoney prizes will bepayablein thirty days
after it is finifeed ; and any prize* for which fortunate
numbers ate not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is dosed, are to be confidercd as given towards
the fun«l for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount of the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commiflioners ailifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk
& second time on behalf ef the public ; a fufficisnt num
j;r of these having kindly acoepted,it is hoped that she
iends to a National University and the other federal ob
jeAs may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different parts_of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are aflured that the
drawing will speedily commence, and that the care and
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of
th« tickets, has rendered the ihor" Aifpe.nfion indifpeniable.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
James Weft &Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Oilman, Boftou ;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
Cooper's Ferry. «o
Lancafler, Harrijburgh, Carlijle, Ship
penjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
The public are requested to take notice, that the part
nership which has for some time, subsisted between Mathi
as Sleughof Lancaster, and William Geer, is now dissol
ved: bat, not as M. Slough -insinuates to the public
without jnft cause ; as will more fully appear by a letter
on the fuhjedt from M. Slough t® W. Geer, dated the
49th- December Jaft. a recit;d of which is not now deemed
necessary. Any gentleman who wifees to he more cir
cumflantially informed of the merits of this business, by
applying to W. Geer may have the perafal of M. Slough's
letter, and then can be at full liberty to determine whe
ther or not W. Geer is not perfeAly juftifiabie in attach
ing himfelf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenfeurg,
or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the public
were pleased to confer on the firft effort in this business,
William Geer, in conjunction with Messrs. Reily, Weed
and Witmer, is determined to prosecute and carry it on,
with every care, attention and dispatch that a zeal to o
hlige the public can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided with
carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to render the
passage fafe>md commodious, inform those who wife to
patronize and encourage the undertaking, that they ran
take theirfeats at George Weed's, the sign of the White
Horse, Market -Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed toLancafter, Harriiburg, Cailifle
and Shippenfeurg. The fare as hitherto eftabliihed.
r For the further accommodation of the public, a Stage
will {tart every Wednesday from the house of Samuel
Slder, in Harrilburg, arrive at Sunbury in Northumber
land comity, every Tharfday, and return from the<ace and
arrive at Harrifeurg "every Saturday, so tfcat passengers
deft ined for Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on
Mondays.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 27, 1797.
N. B. This Line of Stages starts from the house of
William Ferrec, in Lancaftcr, on every Tuesday and Sa
turday morning at 6 o'clock, proceeding to the westward;
and from the Jieufe of Mr. Saipuel Elder in Harrifburg
every Wednesday morning, on the fame evening arrives
at TPatrick Cochran's in Shippenfaurg, and returns from]
thence on every Thursday : performing! the fame routine
daily as in its tour from Philadelphia. mwf
F 0 R S A L £,
A very Valuable Ettate,
CALLED TW/TT E NH A M, ft' u are in the
-townfeip of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
7 1-2 miles from Phiiadflphia, and half a mile from the
new Western road icontainitig 23® aires of excellent land,
45 of which tre good watered meadow, 90 of prune wood-
Itfnd, and the reft arable of the firft quality. There are
en the preroifes a good two story brick houtjp, witi* 4 rooms
on a'floor, and cellars under the a pump-wcii)
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, stables*
and other convenient buildings; a fm«ke-houfe and stone,
spring-house j two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are aliin clover, except those immediately
under "tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.
The situation is plcifant and healthy, and from the high
cultivation of the land v the good neighbourhood, and thf
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman',
country feat.
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harnaan,
dou*icd, and offered for sale liy
Mordecai Lewis,
Oftr jl. law Surviving Ex«cutor.
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE-
No. 61 South Third ftreet.uppofite the national new Bank;
Samuel m frounces and jokn van reed,
have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of
FR\UNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancersand Commission merchants. Jhay buy and
fell on'con-.mi/Tion every species of ltock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Money procured on deposits, &c. See. *11 kinds c
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fetjled, in the
mod correa manner. Constant attendance will be given.
They solicit a share of the public favor ; they ire deter
mined to endeavour todeferveit.
N. B. The utmost secrecy ebferved.
SAMUEL M. FKAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
Philad. August if, 1796. m&wtf
This Day isPublifhed,
Br 810 REN AND MA DAN,
And to be Sold at their Printing-Office, in Dock-
Greet ; by M.Carey, No. irS, Market-street ;
Thomas Bradford, No. 8, South Front-ilreet, and
-George Douglafs,. No. 1, South Third-lfrect,
(Price, neatly bound., tivt dollars)
AN ENQUIRY
Concerning Political Justice,
And its Influence on Morals and Huppiaefs,
By William Gobwin.
THE reputation of this work is already well efta
bliftied in Europe —It is hardly necessary for an Ame
rican editor to fay more than barely to mention, that
the Enquiry concerning Political Justice has ever
since its publication been a favorite performance with
the friends of republican government. The stile is
pure, nervous, and ciiffical; the ideas are strongly
marked by an original vein of thinking ; and, amongst
a multitude of -other just and striking paffagei, the
author's delineation of the peculiar infelicities iafepa
rable from the condition of a King, may be pointed
out as a molt masterly specimen of philofophicjl dif
quifition. The latest London edition of this work
fells in this eity st four dollars and an half.
January 24 Jjtawiw
Particular Teneriffe Wine.
50 Quarter-Cases Particular Teneriffe WINE,
Of afuperior Quality,
For sale by A. MARFLE fcf IS. IV. if ORRIS,
No. 60 Dock.street
• February 8 wf&zni2t
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Littery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South Second-Jlreet.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agrerably to an Aftsf
the Legislature of Pennfylvasia, palled during the la'L
session, for building a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, is the County of
Berks. Dollars.
1 Prize of 20,000 Dollars - 10,0*0
s do. of 10,000 do. - - io,coo
3 do. of j ,OOO do. ... »j,ooo
4 do. of 2,000 do. ■ - 8,000
to do. of 1,000 do. ... 20,000
39 do. of 500 do. . . li^ o
8s do. of 200 do. ... 16,c00
100 do. 'of too do. - . - 20,000
300 do. of 50 do. - - tj,«oo
1 do. of s®o do. to be paid the peHef- )
for f the firft drawn no. J
5 doi of .3, too do. to be paid poffeflors > -
of the five Uft drawn nos $
9,400 do. o 15 do. .! - 141,000
10,054 Prizes 300, ceo
191946 Blanks
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
All Prizes (hall be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
finifhed, upou the demand of a poffeflor of a fortunale
licket, fubjeft to a deduction of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as loonws the Tickets arc disposed
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Ptter Kerjhner, William IVitman,
Joseph Hiefler, James Diemer, Thomas Dundas,
James May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel CraeJ,
Seba/lian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the 9th, 1796.
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. t, to be had at the
above office, where the earliest information of the draw
ing of the Washington No. 2, and Patterfon Lottery's,
are received, and checkbooks for examination and regif
tering are kept.
Tickets in the above Lottery to be bad at Mr, Sheri
dan's Race-ftreet,.Johu Hay, North Third-street and
Henry Sw;yer's, German Town.
January 26 - lawtf
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second stksst.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and registering, for
the City of Washington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New.
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The subset iber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wife to purchife or fell Bank Stqck,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
l sale at len Dollers each, whieh will be drawn early in
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, January 26, 1797. ir.th
Houses and Lots for sale,
BY the Subscriber, in the town of Weft-Chcfter, Ches
ter county, 25 miles from Philadelphia, on the preat
state-road, leading Westward- Viz. No. 1. A twolftory |
Stone Blouse, the corner of High and Gay streets, 40 feet'
front by 34 feet deep, including a very convenient (lore- !
I house : theHeufe contains ten welkfinifhed rooijis, a kit- j
. c and entry : the Lot it 144 feet from on Gay-ffreet,
s equal to any stand in West-Chester. No. 1. A two-fto
-1 ry >V c ne -i°", fe ad i ditlin g- 27 feet front, containing eleven
r wcU-fimlhed rooms, both being ceiled in the garrets, house
and lot fame depth as the other, a kitchen, 4c. acllars
* under both houses, with good stables on the lots. These
Houses are almost new, done by good workmen, in a
. masterly ihanner. No. 3. a Lot 42 feet front. No. 4,
. 34 j ' No " S, 44-feet. No. 4,129 f«t, all of them
ten rods deep. On two of the above are ereded three log
> an . d 'fame^ houses, two stories high, cellars under the
wholes and a Imall stable to each*
> J ! 10 ab °" e Lots are fixated near the Court-Houfe. The
whole will be exposed to PUBLIC SALE, ou the sift and
22ddaysof February next, at two o'clock, when the con
ditions, will be made known. Possession may be had the
Urtt of April new, Tlic Title is indisputable.
. 0 JOHN KINNARD.
, l»w 3 vr
Dr. Perkins
INronass the Citizens of Philadelphia, that he has taken
lodgings for a few days, at the Indian Queen, m 4th
flreet. He will be happy to v ail on any persons 111 this
city, between the hours of 9 and I, who wiffi to fatisiy
thomfelves ot the efficacy of his
PATENT METALLIC POINTS,
And will operate gratis for the relief of the poor : the
inftrumenti, and-the right of uling them, are for sale at
hi* loggings.
Subjoined, are Extracts from a Pamphlet, containing ma
ny remarkablu cases, attcfted by chara&ers of the high
elk rcfpe&ability.
MxtraOs from letters to the Author of the Metallic Difcoviry.
Pierpont Edwaiujs, Esq. DiltrUl Attorney for the llate
of Connecticut.
New-Haven, October 7, 1796.
Dear Sir,
J should have written you last week, had I then been
able to ascertain certain fails, the rumour of which I had
heard. A Mrs. Beers, a near neighbour to nie, the wife
of pbeoßeers, and daughter of captain Samuel Huggins,
of this town, had been, tor fourteen weeks, exceedingly
distressed with'the'Rheiimatil'iK, <0 such a degree that for
fourteen weeks previous to the 29th of last month, ihc
had not ■keen able to walk across the room even with crut
ches, lave only once, when file made out with the assist
ance of crutches to hobble part of the way sterol's her room.
On the 49th ot September last, she procured * set of your
metallic fcbftances, and in lets than an hour after the had
begun to ufc them, in the manner directed by you, the
rose from her chair, and walked about her houle, and on
the next day> ihc went abroad to her neighbours, having
thrown a'fidc her crutches. I have this day paid her a visit
'in company with her lather, and Timothy Toms, Bfq.
who lives in the street where the resides and directly op
posite to htif residence, and with Capt. Abel Burrett, who
islier next neighbor, and lives within eight yards of her
door. I requested her to relate her cafe over in their
pretence, which she did, and thef« gentlemen all with one
voice, supported, from their own knowledge, her flory.
It is a duty which yois owe yourfeif and the world to pro
muljje this event. I am, very refpeftfully,
Your obedient forvant,
Pi R R PONT EDWARDS.
N. B. She fays her fever has Iclt her, her appetite has
returned, and she is in a fair way to be restored tc pcrltil
health.
Rev. Mr. Spaj-ding, of Salem.
This may certify, that the fubferiber, HHffc visits among
•his people,' has uW Dr. Perkins's metallic peints, to re
lieve pains and inflammations oi various -kinds, and has
fucccedcd to hii aftoniffiment. They have seldom failed
to relieve the head-ach, teeth-ach, ague 111 the f»ce, in
flammation in the eyes, craixjp, cholic, rheismatifm, pains
of the.breast and fide, biles, icalds and burns—Sometimes
there has been a perftit cure from one operation. A lad
who had been confined tkree days with high symptoms of
a fever, very hot and full of pain, by an operation of the
points, designed to relieve his head, his face turned .pale
and cold, his fever and pain immediately left him, and in
a few days he was ©tit of doors j the year betore, at the j
fame feafen, he was taken with the fame fympcoms, and
lay cxtrerr. Jy sick forty days. The efficacy of the metal
lic points has gained great credit in this town.
jfOSHVA SJ-AJ-DING.
Dttember 5, 1796.
Rev. ELHANA'N Winchester,
I certify, that on the sift of March, 1796, I few Dr.
Perkins's method of cure by pointed metallic instruments,
tried with fuccefsinthe poor-houfeor bettering-honfe in
Philadelphia ; especially npsn a man who was unable to
lift his right hand to his head, as was tried beforehand, bnt
who after a few minutes operation, -was able to remove it
at pleafure .5 and in my light, put it witheafe o« the top
of his head and back of his neck, and in all directions.
Nearly the lame effect took place upon a woman ; and
Ail that I saw treated, profeffed that their pains "uafed
after being treated a ihort time -. and several came volun
tarily, and in my hearing thanked the Dr. for cures he
had performed on them about sight week* before, in re
moving paiils from them, which they declared had not
since returned :—fo that from -what I Taw with my own
eyes, ant! what 1 have heard, I have great hopes that this
methed vrill greatly tend to alleviate the miseries of man
kind. EJ.HANAN WINCHESTER.
Philadelphia, April 4, 1796.
Extract from a Providence Pap jr.
Communication.
Dr. Perkins's invention for removing pains from the
human body, begins to obtain reputation in proportion
to its utility and efficacy. The fimpliaitjp of the operati
on was at firft an obstacle to its credit; but'the flood of e
vidence in its favor, from a&ual experiment, j* at length
too powerful to be refilled.
February 7. dlweotf
Waihington Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifsd
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fu thousand.
two hundred, and fifty dollar*, for the purpose of ciitting
a Canal through the City of Washington, fro..i th Po
tomac tiV the Eastern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -1 Prize of 30,000 dollars, 10,000
1 ditto 10,000 10,000
7 last drawn 1
Tickets, each j co ° «' 00 °
6 ditto <1,000 6,000
jo ditto 400 4,00e
40 ditto 100 4,000
55 ditto 50 5,750
5750 ditto 14 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 46,15®
5850 Prizes, 175,000'
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175 ,000
0- The Commissioners have taken the Securities jre 1
quired by the aforefaid aft for the penftual payment ol
the prizes.
The drawing ef this Lottery will eommcnce, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prices-as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finilhed", shall be considered as relin<jtjithed for
the benefit »f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
, LEWIS DEBLOIR,
GEORGE WALKER,
W». M. DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Wafl»k>gvan, Feb. 11, §
ior Safe,
By the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30 W&f V
~~FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL lituated, laying on and between Marsh
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Penßfylvania, in
four lapirate Patents. For terras ot sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
Ns. 64, South Srcond-ftrset
j Janujry mwftf
L AXl)i NG, '
AT Walnut-ftrect wbati, i'ru'n on board th« (hip Peg*
gy, captain fclliott, irara lintirdeaux,
VIN DE GRAVE, or White Claret, in Khds and Q£,
Calks
RED CLARET, in Hhds
Ditto in cases of J4 and 30 bottles each
Green and Souchong TEAS, in quarter chests
For sale by
Rundle y Leech,
Nn. 9 Walnut.street,
Fcbruany 6 mwftf
No. 170.
DiJlriß of Pcnnfy/vania, to -wit.
BH it remembered, that on the 24th day ®f January
in the twenty-fiift year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Thompson of the laid district,
hath deposited in this office the title of a Bool*, flu: right
whereof he claims as proprietor, in the words following
to wit—
" A Comparative View a Constitutions of the
several States with each other, and with that of the
United States, exhibiting in tables the prominent icaturtt
of each Constitution, and classing together their mad
important proyifions under the several heads of adminf
tration : with notes and ebfervations. By William Smith
of South-Carolina, 11, d. and member of the Congress
of the United States."
In conformity to the aft of the Congress of the United
States, intituled " An Aft for the encouragement of
learning by securing the copies of maps, charts and books,
to the authors and proprietors of such copies during th»
times therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the DiftriA of Pennsylvania
Feb. * * la\^3
(For Sale.
By private contrast, a very valuable EJlatc, known by
the name sf
CHATHA jYf,
MOST delightfully situated on the north bank of Rap
pahanock river, opposite the town of Frederick&urg, in
the Hate of Virginia, conMing as eleven or fifteen hun
dred acres, as may bed suit the purchaser. There is ob
'this estate, a large and well built brick house, containng
nine commodious ipacious hull or en
try, 2 2 feet square, two pair of Hairs, suitable and conven
ient palfages, and excellent dry cellars. It is placed on a
fine healthy eminence, commanding beautiful views in
every direction over the towns «f Fredericklburgh and
Falmouth, and an extensive cultivated country. —The
grounds adjoining the house are neatly laid out in pleas
ure und kitchen gardens intcrfperfed with a variety of
l'carce trees, a choice collection of flowers and flowerjng
ihrubs, and enriched by various forts of the following
fruits, viz apples, pears, walnuts, chefnuts, eherries, peach
es, plumbs, ne<starines, apricots, grapes, figs, rafberrics,
goofeberries.ftrawbcrries,and currants; the whole admi
rably varied by turfed Hopes which have been formed by ■
great labour and expence. Bordering up»n these im
provements, are several lots, in a highftate of cultivation,
and well set with red clover and orchard grass, from
which three heavy crops of hay are taken every year. Ad
jacent thereto are two large and flourilhing orchards; one
of w«ll cliofen peach trees, the other of apple and pear
trees, felededfrom the belt nurseries in the state. Pro
perly detached from the liianfion house are extenliv#
roomy offices-of every denomination, viz a Kitchen and
Larder, house-keeper's room and Laundry, with a cellar
underneath for a variety of purposes, a ftore-t oufe a«d
iiunke.haute all of brick, a dairy and spring house of stone. •
Stables for thirty horles, apd coach houses for four car
riages. Alio a large and well planned farjji yard, m ith
bani and granary, a cow house, with separate jftalls for
thirty-fix grown cattle,; apartments for fattening veals,
mutton* and lambs 1 extensive sheds for sheep, and other
arrangements for itock of every defcriptionTwilK a large
and convenient receptable forprovender, from which they
can be furnifhed without being exnofed to the inclemency
ot the weather. An overseer's house, blacksmith's (hop,
and quarters fufficient to accommodate in the best rjian- '
lier nvote than fiftylabourers.
The arable lands are advantageously divided as to af
ford an opportunity.of making a large quantity of Indian
corn annually, without bringing the field into fimiiar cul»
tare oftner than once in four years; consequently the
lands may be improved by keeping up the inclofures during
the intermediate years, or may be beneficially fallowpd for
wheat and other grain at the option of the proprietor.
On the prenxifes there is also a merchant mill with one
pair of best French burr stones, and one pair of, Cologne j
furnilhed with modern machinery, and now leafed for the
unexpired term ol four years, at ijol per annum, and all
grain for the use of the farm, hopper free, whichis near
ly iool. more. Thi mill and mioer'shoufe are built of
I'ree.ftone, within a very small distance of navigation,near
to which are two or more valuable lifheries, and a well
accustomed ferry over the Rappahannock to the town of
Fredcrickfburg. l'he land con tains inexhaustible quarriei
of free ftene near to the fiver, is plentifully iupplied wi:u
remarkable fine water and poiTeffes a due proportion of
meadow, which by having the command of water may
be considerably increased. The roads are good, and the
neighbourhood genteel and sociable. Jn fait, e&clufive of
an improveable and well conditioned farm, the value and
emolument, inseparably connected witn a mil), ferries,
fifheries and quarrjes eligibly Urinated ; the profits arising
from an ice-liouie inferior to none in the state, and a gar
den of four acres so abundantly stocked with vegetable*
of.all forts as to jbe fully equal to the demand in market,
there might be detailed many other advantages, apper
taining to the fertility of these lands, \Vjhich the fubferiber
conceives it uaneceffary to mention, being fully convinced
that when examined, it will be foand to be a complete,
pleasant and healthy residence, possessing beauties and
conveniences fufficient to attrafl the attention of any pfr
fon defirousof becoming a purchaler.
The motive which induces the fubferiber to offer for
sale an estate so singularly beautiful and advantageous, is
a desire to become an inhabitant of Alexandria, where We
can with more ease attend to hit interests in the neigh
bourhood of that city.
The purchaser may be accommodated,with a few slave*
in families, either for plantation or domestic use. A part
of the purchafc money will be required and the balanc#
made easy, the debt being properly secured.
WILLIAM FITZHUGH.
Chatham, (Virg.) Dec. 19, 1796. nth—lawim.
Le Breton,
S UR GEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aflortment of every thing aeceflary
to be used forthe
Preservation pi the Mouth and Teeth;
Patent Miaoral Teeth, and & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifke iw powder; Opiate; excellent Elixir-for
sweetening the month and preserving the teeth —he
also furnifhes Brulhes and foft Sponges.
*% * He lives in Chefaut-ftreet, No. 135, abev«
Fourth-flreet.
November 26. tts
a ■ —
, PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. 119 —
CHEBNU T-ST R EST.
[Prise Eigfct DoUar* pir Aaauav)