of ;oc United Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
'-57° J
SAL ::shv AUCTION.
Stated Rales
For t R r GOODS.
f'Fo'iennon—F-tlward Fox, No. 56,
iii 1 } fo'iih Front.ft/eet,
) Alerr.oon —Foot.min & Co. No. 65
f Soufli Front-street.
C Vo-ttivK)—Jphn Conrelly, OM City
j in ' .'I-:, Nn. 73 foMi'V. Front-llreet.
-j l a ) \ Afternoon —Wrilpra Shannon, No.
C. IKigh-ftreet.
mw.,5
-y, ~ C Forenoon—Edward Fox.
•Airj .ay < j\f ternoon —John Connelly.
p Forenoon—Wi!l*inj Shannon.
r Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Wfternooß—Peter Brnfon.
For Savannah,
The faft failing (hip,
SWIFT PACKET,
Patrick Gribbin, Mjifler,
Now lying opposite ih: mouth'
of Franlcford Creek, has har.fllocne accommoda
tions. For paflenpers, and will fail »>n or about
the ill ef Oiflobcr.
For freight it pafT.ge apply to the mailer on
board, pr of the fub'cribers at Frankf<*d, 5 x-i
miles from Philadelphia.
Nalbro Js 3 J. Frazier.
Frankford, Sept. 18. dt-iftO.
For HAMBURG H,
r I 'HE Copper Bottomed Ship
v i~% j>~ I FAVORITE, John
;! S> ThompsoiS, Miftcr, now at
Firight's wharf, and will be rea
, take in on \foad.w» next.
part ot her cargobcinjr ei'eac'd
and rtidy to go on board. The ship is so well
known, that it it needlcfs to defiiribe her. She*
is now in compleat order. For Freight or Pas
sage, pltafe to apply at Mr. Jeremiah Warder's
Compiing l-loufe. No. !», North Third street,
or to the Mailer on bord.
August
'For SALE,
On board the said Ship, Swedilh Iron, aflorted
Hollow and Window Glass, Demvjofcns, Wrap
ping Paper f>r Sugar Refiners, Rugs of 1 &. j
Quality. Please to apply as above.
wf&m4w
White Havanna Sugar.
X4&J boxes 7 of very fuperiorquality now difcharg
■7 hhds. f ing from the snip Hamburgh Packet,
at Walnut Streit wharf—and for sale by
Philip Nicklin Co.
N. B.
THE SHir
Hamburg Packet,
Silas Matter,
Sale, or Charter.
Aug. 24. eotf
" T O BE 6 d — L D,
And poffejjion given immediately,
A LARGE cwo (lory brick Houfe,handfomefy
A Ctuated in Princeton There arc four rooms
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings 51 feet ill
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. Ihereisa pump
in the yard, 4n excelleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
ftah'les, one of which is new, 44 feet long, witl
stalls in the two liable* for 47 horses. The heal
thiness and pleafantncfs of its f'tuation, and the
number ef genteel arid agreeable families in a. d
r.«ar the town, reader it a desirable ritrerat for a
gentleman from the city. Ihf commodioufntf» of
the house, its central position, and the largencfs of
the (tables. make itjeycry wuy fnitablt fora tav< rn,for
which it ha» always been confitlerd as capital
ft a ad. Inquire on the prAn fes, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ann- 15. 19— dtwiawtf
" (M O T 1 C E.
IF Tinny o'Ha*a, whofome years fincekept
School at the Nine Bridges, Quern's County, Eas
tern Shore, Nfaryland, be living, lie is hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. AmbrOse
■Marshal, near Warwick, Cecil County, Eaftefn
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will reecive in
teri-f'ing information.
August 4. mw&f-jw
THESUBS CRI BE RS,
ASSIGtf.SES OF JAMES GREENLEAF,
HEkEuY give notice, that they have disposed
of the pijbperty assigned to them for the securing
the payment of the note 1 , acceptances, jnd en
dotfennents given by Edward Fox, for the use
of ihe A'.id James GreenUaf; and the holders of
such notes, acceptances, and endorsements, are
hereby notifyed that the fubferihers will fsttle
with therp for the amount of their refpeilive
tlaims, b th principal and interest, at
any time before the loth day of Otfloher next;
after which dav, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of align
ment-
Applications to be made at south-east corner
of Dock and Second streets (the Dock-llreet
fide), between the hourt of eleven and one o'
elock every day,- Sunday^excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tho. IV. Francis,
John Miller, Jun.
John AJhley,
Jacob Baler.
Philadelphia, August 18, 1797. d
The Inhabitants of the Diftri£t
of Southwark,
ARE informed that a Coachee is provided, to be
_ kept at the Condables' office, the north east
earner of Front and Almond flreet9. where the
friends of those ficlc persons who desire to be r:-
moved to the City Hospital, are rt queScd to make
application —Alio, a Hear fe will be kept in readi
rci's for the removal of the dead.
' . JONATHAN PENROSE.
N. 8.-—-The Foor, who wilh to remove to the
Tents on Sebuylkiil, may be furniflied with orders
by applying" as a'tove. Au? 1"J
COMMISSIONERS' SALES,
Commiflioners of the counties of Ly-
X coming and Northumberland, have piven
notke that they intend to proceed to the sale of
lands, for the arrearage of taxes, ou the 7th ot
September next.
T'ne difierent printers in this city will
rrnd'r an eiTential fervke to a great number of
individuals liy publiflfing this notice.
Aug. 18.
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 20, 1797.
WANTED
B'lls on Amderdam, at a fight not exceeding six
ty dsya, and with approved Indf* iVrs, tp. the amount
jf two hundred tlioufond guilders—for which calh
will 'je p:u iat the rate of thirty eight cents a guil
der—-Applications <0 be made to George 'Simpfon,
Esq. Talhier »f the Bank of ihc United States.
Sept. 41. dtf
NOTICE r
Ukepcby divert so the « the DiitriA
of Southwark, that a mccwiii he hold at the
ComrainioHer's roo^i v on Friday evening the 15th
in ft. at 7 o*clcck,to take into confideiatioq, ard a
dopt meafuresfor the protedljor) of the pfoperty,of
our fellow-citizens from' daring rohbers.
JON. PENROSE.
Sept. 14.
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chells of a superior quality—Mfo,
ico do.of Hyson,
Imported in the H'oadrop Sims, and for sale by
the fublbribers, corner of Second and Pine
street.
C. Haight.
June it. - eotf
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. I li, South
Front-flreet,
Hyson " }
- "y. fon s^ in r Cteas
iotmg Hyson (
Imperial J
April 20. en>(
This Day Published,
And to hf fold by WILI.IAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Pocuments
Cmuained i* No. V and VI of
" The History of the UniteJ States for
the year 1796,"
In which the cii'iwi or speculation againd
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secr*t>*y of the Tkeasdk, ia FULIA"
REFUTED.
ir R1 r N BY BIMSKLf.
TVs publication presents a concif* (latement
of the base meant pra&ifed by th« Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the chara&ers of those
ptrfons who arc coilidwcd as hostile to their difor
gat izing schemes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and MefTrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on the fub
jc<st of the documents alorefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds ana his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the possibility of a doubt,
that the between him and Reynolds,
was the rcfult of a daring eonfpiraay oh the part
of the latter aid his affpeiates to extort money. j
£)r A difcoußt of one third from the retail priec 1
will be made in favor of wholesale purchasers, fw :
cash. Orders to be addrefTed to Mr Yowno.
August 15.
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Sreoßd and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every Tuefriay, tburfday, and Satur
dayat 3 o'clock, in the irorning ; arrives at Do
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the fccond day, at
Noyhampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the paflengcrs find
a fafe and aomfortable, packet .to convey thorn to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton feiry,
every Tuefd'y, Thursday and Saturday, and the
Stage ftart<i from this ferry for Philadelphia,^'every
Monday, JVednefday and Friday ;|put«up at Snow
Hill th-firft night, at Dover the «d night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Ihediftance ontl it route,between Philadelphia
and bjorfolk, is So miles left than on any stage route
between those place*.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is mcft excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
padenger, who, after havijig performed this route,
wiil fay that he evtr travelled iu a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
August 11. dim. eotf.
Philadelphia, ista july, 1797.
NOTICE is hereby given, that separate pre
pnfals with icaled covers will be received
at my office until the ilevenfh day of September
next, to furnifh by contrail the follow ing ar
ticles for the use of the Army of the United
States in the year 1798.
First Contrail for
8 Sergeants coats "j
a Mufioiins, do.
JO Sergeants veils Dragoons.
126 Privates coats •
126 Privates veils
64 Sergeants coats 1
ja Musicians, do.
94 Sergeants veils
192 Wdolen overalls ' Artilleriftj
192 Linen overalls &
936 Privates coats Engineers.
936 do. vests
1872 Woolen overalls
1872 Linen 1 do. J 1
144 Sergeants'coats
72 Musicians, do.
216 Sergeants vests
432 Linen overalls
432 Woolen do. Infantry.
1893 Privates coats
1892 do. vests ,
3784 Woolen overalls
3784 Linen do.
ift Contra<9, for 1288 Sergeants (hirts
11816 Privates do.
12600 Socks
2d Contrail, for 272 pair leather breeches
3d Contract, for 272 pair boots
4600 pairlhoes, Np. 1
8000 pair do. No. 2
4th ContraA, for 1032 Artillerills and Engi
neers hats
a 108 Infantry do.
136 Dragoon caps
The whole'to be delivered at the city of Phila
delphia, viz.
One fourth on or before the 15th day of Fe
bruary next.
One f«vrth on or before t-he 15th day of A
pril next.
The remaining half on «r before the 15 th day
of June next.
The articles are to be agreeable to such pr<-
ternsas {hall be directed by the Secretary for the
Department of War. ,
Payments to be made as fwm as the article
(hall b. delivered, and palled infpeiSlion.
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
eotuthSep..
By John Fenno, N° 119 Chefnut Street.
Lately Published,
In one vol. 8 vo- (price one foliar 'n boards) fold
by U'tLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
Chvfruf firi-ets,
A Colleftion of Papers on the fubjeifl: of
Biilious Fevers, prevalent in tin: United
States for a 1 few year? past.
Compiled by NO AH iri'BSTZR, /,». •
Contain!,Vletters from <3ors,an, .* tirtti,
B '- : >l'..»lor, Rinifay. Moni'on, Reyiiwids, Mitch
ell,oh contagion, &c. &c.
f'etit. T c.
— .
City CommiJJioners Office,
August 29, 1797.
IN purfuance.ofan Ordinance of the Selcii and
Common Councils, paflcd the a2d day of May last.
Propofat." in writing will be received hy the C iy
Commiflioners for one month from the ift ef Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on ieafca lor o»e
year to comVnence the firft day of January next, the
following public property of thfe city—
The wharf and landing on Vine Street,
Also on Saffafras,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Draw bridge, with
th» Scale and Frth Houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under ttie City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middtc ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lot j contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as shall be occu£i£d by any buildings eteA
ed f~r theufeoftbe of the Tolis, or bt
necefTary for the toll-gates.)
Anp. 3 3tawim. •
LOS T,
ON the PalTyunk Road, between the Blue Ball
and the city, a Fowling Piece, with a brass
h a>rel and filvcr fight; on the plate of the butt are
tht< letter* <l Jamaica, * —and on the barrel
near the lock *• Londba" anrf the Tower
Whoever will return the aid pieccto Join Brnnard,
at thefign of the Blue Ball on the Puffyunk Road,
or the office of this Gazette, lhall receive a reward
of Four French Crowns,
Sept. 12. *3t
"DUTY - 3N carriages.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an a A of Congress ef the
United States of America, pafled at Phila
delphia, the 18th day of May, 1796; laying du
ties on Carriages, for the conveyance of persons,
which (hall be kept by or for any person, for hia
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of passengers, the several duties and
rates following, to wit:
For and upon every Coach, IS dols.
upon every Chariot, IZ dols.
upon every Poll Chariot, l» dolt.
(jpon every Post Chaise, 11 doU.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top,
9 dols. - ■
upon every Ooachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having panne 1 work
above, with blindt, giaffei or curtains,
9 dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, having fra
med polls and tops with fleet fpriogs, 6
dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
en or iron springs or jacks, 3 dais,
upon Curricles with t»p«, j dels,
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dais.
up«n oth«r two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or
iron springs, 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 3 dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed polls and topa, and relling up-,
on wooden spars, 2
The Collectors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Dillrifl of Pcnnfylvania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September next, for
the pur pose of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
Gcrmanrown ; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Eft],
in the County of Montgomery; and at the house
of James Chapjnan, Esq. in the County of Bucks*
of which all perfonspoffefled of such Carriages are
ddircd to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquor*, that licences will Ue grant
ed to them i one licence for carrying on the busi
ness of retailing of Wines, in a ltf» quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the bufincfs of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than so gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame palaces, by the olic
ers legally authorised to grant such licence*.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpe&or of the Revenue of the firft sur
vey of the DillriiSof Pcnnfylvania.
Office of Infpeftion at < j ]m
Germantow, Tith Sept. 1797- J
IMPORT E D
Ih tho {hip America, James Ewirjj, mafler, from
1 Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands
White Platilla#
Ticklcfsbfrgs
Coarse Linens
.Tapes
Looking Glides ") f
Glass Tumblers j
FOR SALE BV
George Pennock.
AugvH 14. 3aw
An elegant House in /I\~ch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and elegant house «t the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are' two drawing noras
and one dining room—the largest is 31 feet by
26 —and two are so conneiled by folding doors
as to make but one. Also, five bed rooms, he
fides 5 in the garnet, well finifhed for fervanu.
There are stables and a coach hoofe, \t'ith evry
convenience for a fairily. Enquire
in North Seventh street, or at No. 218, Arch
Street.
yV 'ifj. xe. 23W3w.
PETER EORGER,
INFORMS his friends k and the public in general
that he has removed from No. 159, corner of
Arch and Fourth, to No. toj North tront, be
tween Arch and Race ftreett. .
July i". yiw4w
Window Glass,
<ffff Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the City—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to *9 jjjT 14s
By the (ingle Box or Quantity, may be had ?t the
Store of the Subscribers, corner of Arch aiyt Front
ftrcct.
James C. & SamudW. Fijhcr.
Philadelphia, J'ne9, 1797. 'iiwmwftf
' nfurance Compan of the State
of Pennfylvaijia.
THE Office y/ill be kept until further notice at
the School House ; in Germantowtv. The
Company (till retain the room in Chef;iut, ?.hove
Seventhfstreett t whtrc a person will' attmd to re
ceive and give anfv.-crsto applications, every day
1 ' 6 until 1 o'clock.
S',h 1 ;. dmawtf
Bank of North Arnerita,
v September Sth, 1797.
0^ T Monday next the Notice* for all Notes or
Bill« payable at this Bank .which fall due »n that
and the days, will be served on the Pay
ers: *nd the like Notices on evety Monday, till
the further orders of the pirc&ors.—Perfons will
ing to deposit K#tcs or BiUs for Collection, which
are to fall due within the week, must tlenif-lves
imri'-ruhc to give notice to the Payfr- dtf
TO BE SOLD, •
And immediate pojfejjion given, . <
A Convenient well finifhed Brick Tenement,
with a cook house and other out houfes,fitu
ated in a plea fan t part of the borougk of Wilming
ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
ha* forty fee? front on West-street, and extends
through the square to Pafturi'-ftrset, on which is
creeled a stable iod carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Aug. 30.
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt Rhodes, from
Oporto,
Red Port Wine in pipes,hhds. and quarter calcs
cwt, Cork, for sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
T'?ly 3t. $
The Partnerihip,
UNDER the firm of FP.F.F.MAN S3* Comparr,
is diffolvcd by mutual content. All persons
having any demands against the said Koufc are de
fircd to render the fame to ,T. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to the House are desired to make pay
ment to him—By whom bufinefa will in future be
earried on,at biiStore, No. 39, South Tront-ftree*.
AugiiJ! 7. o® I4W
NOTICE.
ALL those who have any claims against the
eflate of John Cole, Umbrella Maker, late
deceased, will apply withi» a month from the date
hereof, to Mrs. Cole, at the south east corner of
Green and Second streets, for their arrangement.
N. B. If all demands are not frnt in before the
expiration of the abovementioned time, they wi'l
not be allowed, as his property will be disposed of.
Sept. 9. *3t
Imported in the ship Man Chester,
Benjamin Shewbll, Matter,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubfc/iber,
No. 11. Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy ~j
Irilh market claret in cafe 9 / Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter caik«
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bulhele Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
A' PERSON OF INGENUITY, lately arrived
from Europe, wiihes to find here a place in
the quality of a Director of a Glafs-hopfe, Cb-yf
tal of all kinds, havSng particular means for the
conftruiftion of the kilns, pots. &c. and pnffedinq;
likewise the articles used in tht Glals houses oi
E gland and France, having worked a long while
in must of them. Every exertion will be made to
render the manufactory delerving of public appro
bation— He. who wifhtfs to speak to him, will find
hiin at No. 275 Front-ftiett. 1
A U cry f} 24 *4t
Fjr sale or to be let on ground
rent,
/ valuable Lot qf Ground ;
SITUATE on the'north-eifl corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is filty-ooe feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present twofmall two story brick houses, and£
number of small tenements thereon.
Alj'o, for Sale,
Two three iftory Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-ltreet, between Mulberry and Saflafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward nine:y-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
ivie the convenience of a public alley adjoining
011 the north fide, and are a very desirable liqua
tion for a merchant, flour fai3or,or others who
nuvhaveoccafion for storage of (roods. This
property will'be fold 011 very reafonabte terms
for calh. For further information apply to the
printer.
July 31. m&wtf
The Subscriber has for Sale,
A large assortment of India Muslins,
coarse and fine
Indfa Calicoes.
Sooty RomalU
B ue Cloths and Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irifti Linens and Sheetings, well
assorted
A box of Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
Two boxes of fine Spices, cotaining Nutmegs,
Mace and Cloves
Black Pepper of firft quality
East India Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wine
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimstone
Mordecai Lewis.
Au*nfi 12* 3awim
Cedar Shingles.
P-IE fubferiber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar
Shingles of a superior quality, for sale at J3
dollars psr thousand.
William UaHotvcll,
Ni. 193 Ntrlh Third-Jhrct.
July 17. oof"
Thomas Her wan Leuffer,
North tifih flroet, xofner of Noi ti: aliey, No. 34,
HAS FOR SAI.I, v
E' XCELLENTred tSotirdciux Wiae i^ca&sar.4
j boxes, sis years 1 c!t}
Whitr Graves \Vu,c in caf»ss
TKh'r'nburgs 1
R'iffia Sail Cloths
Ravens Dui.lt
Bag Linen
Hefliasi
Di ipfi aid Tabic Clor'i
Empty hugs
Caramon German Clorh
An aficrtmentof black coloured Ribbon*
Fine Cerman Laces
About twelve tons Ruflia clean Hemp"
Clover Seed ;
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family use
Window oiafa i*W ~9 —live
piSDAY WAS fUBLic.l'iED,
And for file by THOMAS DOBiON, at the
Stone Hnufe. No. 41, south Second fireet.,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Confuting of a variety of Mifedlaneoue Pieces for
theinftrudion and amufementof YOUNG PER*
SONS: —Six Volumes handsomely primedand bound
up in two Volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these piece# ♦-c
such, that the hook need* only to be known to be
univcrfally efleemed one of the mod valuable pub*,
lic-tions th t can be put into the hani's of young
pttrfons.
" Delightful talk to rear tfie tender thought,
To teach the younjr idea how t«< (hoot.
To pour tha frefh inAruclion o'er the mi-id,
To breathe th* enlivening, spirit, and to fix
The generous purpose in the glowing breast."
Thomson.
Au£i:ft24. mwf4\v
THIS D v Y IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS th?. Stone Houfo,
No. 41, south Second ftrcet,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Young Ladies, improving and iti»"
terriling; fubje&s.
Traaflated from the Dutch of Madame dt Carr.Un
with alterations and improvements,
Printed an J-paper, and neatly Sound,
Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Remances, painting
tales »f extraordinary distress, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," an<f
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comas forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, beeaufi
elegant and natuml dignity and importance of the Female
character is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and prcfents examples of real aid attainable excel
lence.
The publifiier was fomuch pleafedwith the pern;;
sal, that he was persuaded he ffieuld do a pleasing
fefvicetothe community by fending it in o circu
lation. August Z4—mw4w
~To Masters and Pilots. bringing up Vtjfelc
from Foreign Ports to this City.
TTTHereas fundcy infringements have lately been
VV made on the laws of this state for the pro>
venting pestilential or infe&ious diseases, cither
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho'c
expedient at this time to publilh the following ex
tracts from the laws cf aid April, 1794, Jtli 2*4
Bth fe&ions:
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 17,4.
Extraß of an aftfor securing the city and port
of Philadelphia from the introduction of pcjli-
Imtial and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And he it further enntfted, that every
matter or captain of any (hip or velTel coming from
faa (vefleli a&uaily employed n the toasting trade
excepted) and bound to any port or place within
the juril'diAion of Pennfylvania,ffiail csufe his ffiip
or veifel to be broaght.to anchor, or otherwise fiay
e l in the ftrenm of the river Delaware, oppoCts to
the Health-Office on Stau-Ifland aforefaid, and
there to remain until he ffiail have duly obtained a
certificate or bill o.f lieal.h from the ReOdent Phy
firian. AndU, previeully to obtaining ftich certi
ficate or bill of health, any matter or captain {hall
fuller his ffiip or veflelto approach nearer than the
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
(hall land, ciufc or Puffer to be landed, or brought
on shore, at any place or port within this Cor.i
ntDnWf a'th, or at any other port cr plaae, with the
intent c! being conveyed into this Kommonwealth,
any person or perlons, or ary goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving futh bill of health
o." certificate, he shall negle& or rcfufe to deliver
the sam- to the Health-QHictr, such mailer or cap
tain ffiail forfeit a«ia p-y, for each and every fuck
offence, tbefumof riVE ddndked dollars.
And the captain or matter'of every Ihip or ves
sel fhaU fend a fafe and commodious boat to bring
the physician on board, and fhaU in like manner
etinvey him back to the Haalth-Office, after he hat
concluded his official examination ; /ind while he
is making such examination, or in cafe any fubfe
queit examination by the Hea!-h Officer or Con
futing Physician, agreeably to the d redtions of
thi act, the mailer or captuip fiiall expole or caule
to be expoled to thefeareh of the Resident Phyfi
cian,or ofthe Health Officer and Consulting physi
cian (as the cafe may be) each and every p?.rt of the
ihip or vessel,"and ffiail present to his view each
and every person cr perfor.s on board thereof, and
and fhaU also true and fatisfaitory answers jnako
to all such queflions as the Resident Phytic iair; &c.
at the time of examination (hall ask relative to the
health of any port or place from which the ihip or
vedel failed, or has since touched at—the number
of persons on board when the ihip or veflcl entered
on her voyage—the number oi persons that have
fruce been landed or taken on board, and whea
and where rcfpeilively—what persons on board—
s they have been during the voyage, or fhaU, at
the time of examination, be infedted with any pef
tilentisl or contagious difeate—and what is the prs
feat state and condition of the persons on board
with reTpeit to their health or diseases. And if
any mailer or captain fhaU rcfufe to expose a< afore
aid, to the fearchof any of the officers aforefaid,
n if he ffiail conceal acy sick person, or in any other wan-.
j<l deceive the proper officers aforefaid in bis
uch captain or mailer, for every such offence, fhaU
forfeit and pay the futit of five hundred dol
lars.
Sect. 8. And if »*y pejrfon or perfoni whatfe
ever (the Resident Physician, &c. excepted) ffiail
go on board any velTel, before the matter thereof
has received a certificate of health in the manner
• directed, every person so offending, ffi»U pay th«
um of ONE HONORED DOLLARS.
IT being abfolutcly ueceffary that the foregoing
Teflions Ibould be punctually complied with, th«
fiibfcriber, in compliance with his duty, mud ex
ail a rigorous obfcrvance of the fame, or else b?
undet tlw tieccffity of putting the laws in force.
Wm. ALLEN, Health Oficcr of tie
Pert »f .f'l'djdclpl/ia.
July 14-' Jjw
[VCXVME XIIMr. L AILS ON,
"\VTTI4 iifi inientiori to render forvice, and unde
ceive those Performers, ivhd duHsfghUaSien.ee Mr.
Jiyrnotid has theuyjKt pi*dper to engage, thinks it
wowld k V/rOfT£ In tiot try fnfctm those that
to;ed; thstf: it is vvitnoil his approbation, and
\hathcwil'l not be,in any anfwerabie-for Mr
Jay msnd s 4 ettgageni en w
PHILIPS LAILSON.
AUZiktriA, "Sept. 15, 1797. | 6t.
Thomas Armat ahd Son,
of Philadelphia,
Inform a rir cuiloni-rs and the public, they
have refnoved a past of their merchandize toi
Vfi'sniAgton : Alio, they hive their (lore open in
the city. At either place their friends can b: fup-l
plie I, aild tlu*ir orders carefully attended to
By the Cumberland, from Hull, they have re.
teived a handsome alTnrtment .of at tides, fuicable
to the approaching season ; and expeit to add to rt
by ether fall (M;>s.
Should the ficfenefs prevail in the central part bf
the city, that branch of their business will be re
moved to Gertnantown.
;£r The communication by pod is open and re
gular as iifual. t
Stspt. 18. thtf
~~ FOR \
BRETAGNES In cases
German Checksin do.
Cambrick *
Plattil'a*
Oznabrigi
Gold and silver Watches
Window Glass 10 by 3
Glass Tumblers in cases
t*i feed Oil in cnlks, &c. See.
George Pennock,
103, High-Street.
Jjgjr S> , 3* w
Rofs & Sim fort,
H AVE FOR SALS
T Hogsheads,
txcellcnt Coffee in < Tierces, and
C Barrels.
A imal! parcel of nice cocoa in bags
A few puncheons Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior Teneriffee wine, old an J in Madeira pipes
Ap invoice of jewellery and hosiery te be fold by
the package
a few hampers best EnglHh cheese.
July 17. dtf.
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Amllcrdarn anil Hamburg, and torfale by
B. & J. Bohlen,
A large assortment of fine French Cambrics,
Platillas kuflia jndOutch lailcloth
li r ittanniai Writing, post, and print-
Ro' lanes jpg paper
Brown Holland Dutch calf lkins
Checks and (tripes Prime madder
Tickienbtirgs ShellM Barley
Oznahu-gs Looking glafTes
White sheetings Hollow glass wire
I>iaper Slates
Brown rolls Coffee mills
Umbrellas Brass \ettles
Hair ribbons Scythes >nd straw knives
Black and white laces Tovs aflorted in boxes
Bed Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Madeira Wine
July 14. might f
Injurance Company of North America.
/
Stockholders in this company are here
by informed, that, pursuant to the fifth
clause of their Charter, and at the requcft of a
" Number of Stockholders, who, together, are
proprietors of Six Thousand Shares, and up
wares," a general meeting of the Stockholders
will be held at the Company's Office, on Mon
day the 15th day of September next, at 11
o'cloc kSf*. M. for the porpol'e of filling up a
vacancy in their Direction ; and taking into
consideration such Regulations or Bye Laws as
may beprefented in conformity with.the Char
ter of Incorporation.
EBEN. HAZARD, Sefrj. "
July 10. w&ftSaj
Mrs* G RATTAN
INFORMS her friends,and the public in general,
that h-r house, No 192, Market-llreet, will con
tinue open during the fieknefi.
Board and Lodging' in a fcparate room, ten
dollars, in a double room, sight collars.
For the convenience of those gentlemen who
have not thoir 'amilies in town, Mrs. Grattan
will receive gentlemen to dine at half a dollar
a day. Angvjt 6t
Biggins' Specific
FOR TUB
PREVENTION AND CURE OF THE
Xbllow fir EX.
EVER (ince this diftafe jnade such ravag««in this
1 city and New-York, the author has turned his
attention to its causes and cure.—The result of his
enquiries has convinced him that the reason why so
few persons recover from its attacks, are fr«m its
not being well understood, and the confcquent
Wrong method taken to cure it. He is pe.rfuadcd
-that the excefl&ve bleedigps and roercuricl reatment
of the Faculty is highly injurious, and that the on
ly rational mode of treatment is by theufe of proper
acids. Convinced of this he offers his Sjkcific as a
certain remedy, if used according to the dire<stions.
To be had in bottles, at one dollar each, of the
Inventor Gto. Higgin, Cherry street, two doors a
bove Ninth street, (late manager of Jackson ami
Co s Medicine Warehouse, London); by J. Lt
Hate, No. 2'6 ; Jf. Griffith, No. 177, T. Am, N*
It, South Third street, T. Stiff, No. 55, New street,
near Vine street, and J. Gaits, No. ji, Race street.
Aug. is. tuths it
ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just received, by Wm. Griffiths,No.l77,South
Second-street, a frefh (upply of
Genuine Baljam of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hill
(who knowledge as a Botanist procured him
the appellation of the Linnaeus of Britain) and is
aonfidffcd in England a: a certain cure for the abovi?
complaints; it is also of singular efficacy in tht.
Hooping Cough,
lt may also be had retail of W. A. Stoicfs, No.
South Second-street, and T. Stiff, jj, New
ftreet, in bottles at 75 cents each.
Wm. Griffiths having obfetved the hnppy ef
fect of the medicine, (several cases of cures hav
ing eome within his own knowledge) and the great
demand for it has induced him to order a large
fupp'y, a part of which he has just received.
Attgii/f 3* iawj'%
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufaflured us usual,
Ginger and Fcpper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
BhiladelphiS Porter," Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Burton Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eitht botlled,
•r by the pipe,, quarter cast or gallon—suitable
Ibr exportation or home confumption—
for Sale by
'John Haivcrth.
•No. 9S i'outh Front ft rest
"Xjjf'® a?et£e.
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, Sfptemefr 20.
COMMUNICATIONS.
I If the reign of blood is to continue, we
fliall soon fee our Butchers and Farritrs as
piring to feats in the College of Phylicians;
and it will be on all hands allowed, that
their patients, to use the expreflion of our
modern Sangrado, will die eajy.
The epithet used by Sangradin, when
speaking of blood-letting, will lose him the
pra&ice of our Sans Culottes ; they will ne
ver consent to die nobly.
Gil Bias was vif'ted with a troubled conscience
at having Tent out of the world fomany untorhl
nate mortals by bleeding them to death in pursu
ance of the preceptscf his matter, Sangrado.
If our modern Sangrado, or his he^d of Gil Bias,
were not above the reach of our fufrieions, on a
Gmilar score. the funereal rtfult of their pra&ice
would furnifli a much more extensive field for re
morse and bitteinefsof foul, than p-obabty did
Gil Bias or bis master Skngrado. ,
For the Gazette of the United States.
MR. FENNO,
I (hall soon take the liberty of submitting
to the public, Propofalt for Jlriiing offfome
engraved copies of abainting which is now
nearly compleated. The original i 9 8 by 5
feet. The engraving, I prop'ofe, (hall be 3
by two feet, and (hall be confided to the
execution of the best artists. I cannot give
a better account of the performance, than
by relating to you the remarks made on it
by two gentlemen who came to view it.—
These remarks I overheard unobserved, im
mediately committed them to writing as well
as I could recolleft them, aud now beg the
favof of their, insertion In your ufeful paper.
NICIAS.
Stranger.—Upon my word here are a great
many figures. It cannot be said of the
painter of this piece, that he was a lazy fel
low ; altho' I believe that it is generally the
caie that painters introduce into their per
formances as few objefts as poflible. I have
heard of a Flemish painter who was three
weeks industriously engaged in painting a
hickory broom. He mud have been very
particular and exaft indeed. This artiftdoes,
not appear to have taken quite so much
trouble. His (ketches have been quickly
made ; but they are striking, and the tout
ensemble is admirable. You will,be fogood
as to explain to me some of the figures. I
do not know them all. In the mod con
fpieuous groupe I fee some fine, chearful,
open countenances ; and recognize many of
the true patriots of America, Wa(hington,
Adams, Jay, Hamilton, Pickering, Knox,
and others. Op a de(k I fee the Proclama
tion of Neutrality. These men have indeed
left nothing undone to preserve the neutrali
ty of the United States. Those insignia de
note that they have been as indefatigable in
perpetuating the peace, and promoting the
true interest, as they formerly were in effeft
iwg the independence of their country.—
With the persons who compose that larger
colleftion, I am not so well acquainted.
The painter seems not to have flattered .them.
Citizen.—Alas ! Sir, for the honour of
our country, the painter has but copied
nature. These people call themselves ex
clusive patriots, and were we to attend to
their profefllons only, without paying any
regard to their a&ions, we might suppose'
that they monopolized all the virtue of
America. Many of them are disappointed,
faftious, envious men, who cannot bear to
fee others in the quiet poflellion of that
confidence, affeftion and esteem of their
fellow citizens, which fhey themselves never
could acquire. Mod of them are of des
perate fortunes, having nothing to lose,
and much to acquire in times of confufion.
Not a few of them are deeply indebted to
Engli(h merchants, and consider a war with
Great Britain as a sponge that will wipe
off their debts. Thiy were men of this
damp who set up the hue and cry agairrft
tfec British government for retaining the
western pods, and for seizing our vessels.
Precisely the fame men spared no trick, or
artifice, to render that very treaty obnoxious
to the people, _ which provided for the deli
very of these forts, and for indemnification
for these seizures. Do you note that flick,
cunning, (harp looking Frenchman ? You
observe that he holds in his hand " Injlrut
ttons for drawing the Americans into a war
with the British, by hook or by crool ?" You
have heard of Genet ? This is intended to
represent him. He is pointing t<3 the guil
lotine, (hews those around him some bags
of gold, and a large parcel of blank com
miflions. Look what a lid of profcriptioni
is nailed to the guillotine, and how greedily,
and with how much savage pleafnre, those
wretches are reading over the names. You
fee him offering to a fat man with white
hair, a fcrowl, entitled " A plan for organ
izing a number of Democratic Societies, which,
by the so• ce of their united influence, will, vn
quejlionably effeSihe defiredpurpofes." This
person, whose grey hairs ought to have
brought with them.more moderation, once
threw a treaty, after it had been approved
of by the senate of the United States, a
mong a number of the citizens of Phila
delphia, and with the voice of a fury told
them " to kick the G—d d d treaty
to h—lltaking the citizens for d-v-ls I
suppose.
Stranger.—He ought, if he thought
them d-v-ls, and one is authorized by his
language and conduft to imagine that he
had the impudence to regard them as such,
to have told them to tale, it to h—ll. But
what means that paper, which some mif- 1
chievous fellow has pinned to his back,
with the large words " The great Prrvaleer
and Swindler ; what is got over the devil's
back is spent under his belly."
Citizen.—This, I suppose, is in allusion
to the privateering which he was fuccefs
i fully engaged in lad war, aod to some fa
mily settlements macie to defraud honest
creditors:
Stranger .That'long faced, larithorn jaw,
half starved Italian, is intended to personate
the hungry wheels»of-government-clogging
Patriot. Pray who are those who stand be
side him, and are so attentively perufisg the
contents ot the paper which he holds in his
hand ? That paper he seems to have received
from Genet.
Citizen The one on his right hand is
F . ,-ly ; the one on his left hand is Mc.
L n. That person, who is'reading the
fame paper with so much fatisfaftion, is
Sm -ly. You have heard of all these
names at the time of the wefteni infurrettion
iu Penpfylvania. You may judge of the
purport of the paper which commands such
eager attention, by its title, " A plan for
weakening tht f 4 g Iby Jlirring up
an appqfitioiK to the ex. ein the w n
c— l —s of P a."—You observe a num
ber of figures apparently very much bent
upon something. The person to whom they
are so attentive is Fauchet, the late French
miniver. He wears a collar round his neck
upon which the words " Lord mayor of the
flour merchants," are engraved. He seems
to be dubbing one of his associates : that
person, around whose neck he is placing a
similar collar, is E d R h, of fa
mous memory. The inferiptien on his col
lar varies from that of Fauchet's ; for he is
yclipp'd " The renowned knight of the diflin
guifhed order of flour merchants." Take no
tice how heavy his pockets seem to be. See
those others hattily pressing forward for the
/ame favors. Note those two persons ad
vancing arm and arm. They seem calcula
ted for each other's support. Neither of:
these men could walk alone. The painter I
has taken some pains to express this idea, by •
making them link so close together. They '
are both foing to enter into the order of
flour mercnants Both of them are Jaco
bins. The one is an Amer/ean; and many
high offices of government have been prosti
tuted to him. Do you want to know how
virtuous, how ehafle, how sober, and how
hoitejl this man is, enquire in the environs of
Philadelphia, on the banks of the Schuyl
kill, and at the b—k of P a. The
tallest of the two is not an American ; but
I cannot tell you to what country hebelongs;
for as much pains have been taken by peo
ple of different countries to disown him, as
was formerly taken by the different Grecian
cities to obtain the honor of being believed
to haye given birth to Homer. You can
not exasperate an Englifhmtn more than to
fay D s was born in England. Tell a
\ Scotsman that this person and himfelf are j
fellow-countrymen, you will work him into ,
the utmost rage imaginable. You could not I
affront a man of any country more than to j
insinuate that this G r's humble ser
vant and himfelf, were born under the fame
sky. You might as well pull a Mussulman's
beard, or invite a descendant of Abraham to
dine with you on bacon. Look at that lit
tle'fellow who is striving so hard to get fore
moft. He is a celebrated musician, whose
voice has been much improved by a certain
cruel operation. Some twenty or thirty
years hence, perhaps a circumstance of this
kind may be a recommendation to a candi
date for office, and We may then fee over
the doors of certain artists in our city,—
Qui f cajlrano maravigliofimente iputi.
This little fellow has had the vanity to
believe himfelf qualified to take a diltin
guifhed part in the politics of our country.
Reared from the lowest and most dependent
• situation in life, by the patronage of an
eminent and wealthy merchant, he seized
with greediness the opportunity whieh the
misfortunes of his benefaftor afforded him,
to repay the many obligations he owed him
with the deepest ingratitude. Such' having
been the private life of this man, who is a
disgrace to the name, we are not to be fur.
prised by finding him firft in every Jacobi
nical measure adopted against the country
and government.
That is said to be a very striking likeness
of Mr. B— r t, who has been recently expel
led from a certain distinguished body, He
is a Jacobin, high in the confidence and fa
vor of his political associates. Very fortu
nate forthe Peace and welfare of the United
States, this man without intending it, has
proved like Fauchet, the marplot of his par
ty. Neither of these gentlemen thought
it worth their while to write their confiden
tial letters in cyphers. Their own"letters
have betrayed them. In all these treache
rous tranfadions you discern none but de
mocrats and exclusive patriots concerned.
Never yet has there been any plot against the
government, oh the people dete&ed, but
some of these jacobips have been exposed.
Yonder the painter has taken the licence
of a poet. That in the back ground is in
tended to represent a palace in Paris, lately
occupied by a nobleman whose fortunes were
prostrated by the French revolution. The
person descending the steps so heavily is our
late M—r M—e. - He holds in his hands
dispatches from America ordering him to re
turn *0 the United States. He casts a wifh
ful eye every now and then to the splendid
palace which he is most relu&antly compel
led to quit. H« however, consoles himfelf
with swearing " that he will return to his na
tive country and be revenged upon those who
have so cruelly awakened him from his fafci
nating dream of splendor and wealth." It is
said that the French government expressed
the utmost conccvn at parting with this Gal
lican, Anti-American M—e. Was it not
very strange the R—of this country should
have received such distinguished marks of af
fe&ion and etteem from those very men who
set their piratical eruizers loose upon our
defencelefs commerce, and ordered their
R—e to insult and vilify the firft officer of
the United States ? The figure yonder
which appears to be so carclefsly Sketched
off, and yet is not more unfinifhed than the
orignal, is a French printer, who has received
the most unbounded encouragement from
the French government. What think you
; of a printer being fuffered to publish a paper,
j paid for and supported by a foreign govern
ment, for the exprcfs purpose of rcvilifig an J
abusing those to whom the people have
thought proper to entru!Hheir gsyermen- j
tal affairs? The painter has drawn on his |
back the outlines of an American frigate ; ;
and from fhuulder to shoulder you fee two
or three broad stripes : Miis is the way that
he has taken to inform us that this man is
the lirft. who ever had' the honor to receive '
the punishment of the whip on board the '
American navy. He is however well paid
for being maltreated in this way, for that
great bundle of rtewfpapers which he is car
rying on his back" are for the French minis
ter, who is said to be a fubferiber for 700 of .
his papers. You fee a little boy pointing
to him and calling out, " that is the son of the 1
•would be Pofl-Mafler-General I" I ought |
to explain to you what is meant by this.—
When the press belonging to this printer
was established, it was truly an American,
federal press, and if it ever erred, it. was iu
being too sanguine and warm on the fide- of
governmerft. The very meafyres which
have lince been reviled by this printer and
his correspondents, were then warmly advo
cated by his paper. His father expe&ed, i
the Lord knows how, to be appointed the '
Poll-Matter-General of the United States. '
He was disappointed ; the President think- J
ing, I suppose, that a man might be a jolly, j
jovial foul, sing a good song, and engage ,
with relish in parties of pleasure, without -
being qualified to discharge the irksome du- j
ties of Pott-Matter-General of the United
States. From this moment it was known :
that a different kind of man had been folic- '
itcd to fill this office, from that instant did j
this press (heer about, and it has ever finc£ j
been the receptacle for the most infamous a- j
bufe of the firft and bed chancier* in the •
United States. It is impossible to note and 1
explain all the various figures introduced in
to this pietje. I will only detain vou to
look at that figure. Mark him we!l. This
man is a violent jacsbin, and for the honor
of my country, I am hapnfy to fay he is not
an American. Do you fee how h=r4 he is
trying to rub something off of his hands ;
and do you note what that something is ? ,
Look at the brgathlefs infant at his feet.
Do you wifii to know the name of this
modern copyist of England' 3 cruel Richard,
enquire for it in the town of Richmond ?
Do you want a conveyancer, apply to this
■man, for his deeds are written with an ink
that never fades.
WALPOLE, (N. H.) Aug. 31.
We are sorry to hear" that the yellow fe
ver has again began its ravages in the city
of Philadelphia. That city has so repeat
edly fuffered from this dreadful contagion,
that we do not wonder its citizens are alarm
ed ; and it is not extraordinary that their
fears (hould increase the report of the cala
mity beyond the truth. Philadelphia boatts
an excellent police, and physicians of the
acute (I {kill. Their exertions, under Pro
vidence, we trust. will arrest this deadly
epidemic in its baneful progress.
The presses of the United States teeru
with native and original publications. Dr.
Morse lias announced an American Gazet
teer, and Mr. Joseph Scott, author of the
United States Gazetteer, has iffued*propo- i
sals for printing a new work, entitled the
Am?ricar> Universal Cazetteer. Dr. Morse !
charges Mr. Scott with having purloined
the materials for his Gazetteer from his
Universal Geography. Mr. Scott, in a
letter addressed to the public, denies the
charge, and severely We
grieve to fee these petty squabbles between
gentlemen of science. Let politicians and
patriots, fools and French philosophers,
" Knit mody brow, and fcornfulfiiigt r point "
We wish that men of science, if they mutt
wage " wordy war," would catch a lefTon
from that Chefterfield of controversy, Bi
(hop Watson; or rather, that learning
would adopt the language of inspiration,
and fay unto her followers, by this shall men
know that ye are my disciples, because ye love
one another.
A quarto edition of the history of France,
from the earliest times to the present day,
by a citizen of'the United States, is now
in the press at Baltimore. , This is a work
much wanted in the United States. Our
knowledge of France has been an acquaint
ance with maffacrc and misery, philosophy
and-impiety, vi&ory and horror. The true
lovers of that erst gallant, loyal nation,
announce with pleasure the publication of
an American work, which will display to
their fellow citizens, the gallantry, braver)',
loyalty,, glory, piety and humanity of our
good allies, under their ancient monarchs ;
and the price and fruits of the French re
volution may convince some of our well
meaning, weak-brained citizens, that when
they have been seduced to seek for a change
in our excellent constitution, and to cry
reform and mean ruin, they knew not what
they asked, for inttead of bread, they might,
with-the French, receive a stone and a ser
pent.
CHARLESTON, Aug. 26.
Extraß of a letter shorn State/burg, Augufi 23.
" The ttafl quati :nty of ruin with fella few
weeks ago, and which has been succeeded by a
spell of dry sultry weather, has rendered the
country uuufudlly sickly, particularly among
those families that live near the swamps and low
grounds ; but few deaths, however, have hap
pened.
" The ancient euflom of boxing is, by a cer
tain class of people, fiillpradfed in this part of
the country. Two young men, of the names of
Swctman and Dunn, having been some time at
variance, at length agreed no fettle their differ
ence at fijlicujfs. They me at a mufler-field on
B.lack river, about the middle of lajl month, in
the preftnee of many fpeßators, and after afevere
contejl of ten minutes the vidory terminated in
favor % of Swetman. The champion, however,
did n\t live long to triumph in his viSory " far
in less than an hour he laid down and expired.
Dunn has firue hem committed to prison."
BHUI Ifc 111 Wiljl.iZapß'Wß4 T-<•'/ C : Y>" ta, -■--. ■*
13y this day's Ma;].
NEWV-ORK, September 19.
C/* Yesterday arrived here the
ship FAN&Y, Capt. Braine,
in 36 clays from Greenock—
on board of which came 33
paflengers, all in perfed health. -
By this arrival we are furni{hed
with London Papers to the
Bth, and Glasgow papers to
the 10th of August—which
enables us again to publish
THE LATIST ADVICES—
and which we eftee*i IM
PORIANI ! N. Y. Gaz.
LONDON, August 7. ,
A ftrongreport prevailed on Saturday an.4
yesterday, that the Dutch fleet had failed
from the Texel in the ahfence of Admiral
Duncan, driven from his station by a .gale
of wind. The Circe frigate arrived from
Yarmouth, brought filch intelligence. It
is said, however, that last night Govern
ment received an affiirance to the contrary.
There had been, it appears, some blowing
weather, that had obliged the Dutch to run
higher up the harbour, and on which ac
count also, the Britilh admiral flood for a
short space of time to sea, as hi* fliips, o
tberwife v during the storm, would have had
to encounter all the inconveniences of a dan
gerous lee shore, at rather an unliable an
chorage.
Our readers wijj find in our paper of this,
day, further details from the Paris papers
which we received on Saturday.
The debates of die Council, and the con
duel of the DireAorv t>f France, give eo-
Jour to the fyjipofitjon that /jaipe Y-ioknt ex
plosion will ultimately ensue. The Coun
l cil of Five Hundred continue to reproach
the D're&ory with an intent to influence
their decisions, and to over-awe their delibe
rations, by the presence of an armed force ;
they declare the explanations which they
have received from the Government to be e
•afive, unfatisfa&ory and falfe ; and the
fafts they adduce in support of their r.ffirm
otions, not ouly demonstrate thejr jafticc,
but prove, in our apprehension, that the
objeft of the Dire£tory, was, and perhaps
stiLl is", to re-tftab!i(h the fiyftem of terror. *
The Council pursue their inquiries on this
interesting fubjed : and the r w mini :
war is employed in afcertainwp from whom
proceeded those orders which aurhorifed tue
troops to pass the limits preferred by law :
for ft range as it 'must appear, after all tl e
communications that have taken place bet
ween the administration and the Legislative
Body, and after the close investigation of a
fpet'al committee, this eflential point still re
mains unexplained.
The Executive Direftory have not been
idle during these tranfadions, they have evi
dently exerted all their influence with the
troops, who have, as we eXpe&eiJ", given
I them afTurance of implicit obedience to their
• commands. An address to the Directory '
from the division under the orders of Gen.
■ MafTena, has not only been- received, but
' published, altho' it is on} of the rr.oft at
trocious and inflammatory papers that ha*
appeared since the revolution. It contains
a gross libel on th#: Legislative Body, whom
it accufesof having violated the contention,
degraded the government, afforded prctt&i*
on to emigrants and priests, rebels to the
laws, and fan&ioned the murder of upright
republicans. It holds out the roost direst
and positive menaces, and threatens the op
ponents of the DireSory with deftruciion.
This paper is nothing less, thin an open
rebellion; and the"condu&of the directory
in fan£lioning its publication, renders them
participators in the crime. It is their duty
to maintain the constitution, and that oon
(litution exprsfsly forbids the army to deli
berate; —the constitution also expressly de
prives all the members of the republic of the
privilege of colleftivelv petitioning or ad
drefling the direftory or the councils; and
yet the dire&ory have in this nftance, not
only fuffered, but encouraged the army
who are doubly restrained by law as citi
zens and as soldiers—to address thvfti<—
They have therefore violated the constituti
on which they had sworn to defend. In
deed, every thing feema to indicate a dispo
sition, on their part, to eftablifli a military
despotism ; troops are in motion in all quar
ters of the republic, though'they have not
yet ventured to approach the metropolis,
the councils have declared themselves to be *
surrounded by them—th~t a days march,
will fuffiee to bring them to Paris, and to an
nihilate the legislative bodies. In this criti
cal posture of affaires, tranquility can scarce
ly be. expe&ed to be long rfiaintamed.
Our Weymouth letter, received yesterday
mention's a report which prevailed there of
an engagement having taken place between
Sir John Borlafe Warren's squadron and a
French 74 gun &ip, in which that gallant
officer is dated to have loft his life, but thai
the enemy's (hip was captured. We state
this entirely upon the authority of the Wey
mouth letter, and which merely records the
report there of the day. .The .account has
received no confirmation this morning.
August 8.
Yesterday eveniag, a Ifttle before fovea
o'clock, lord Grenville Levifon, a«compa»
nied by Mr. Major, one of hir majesty's
meflengers, landed at Dover from Calais,
and immediately proceeded for town, where
he arrived early this morning. Hia lordlhip
is supposed to have, brought over some very
important communications from lord Mal
mefbury.
We are enabled to state, upon the best
authority, that the Dutch fleet have never
quitted, the Texel, nor admiral Duccan his
station. The captain of the Circe, who
brought the account, wasdeccivedby teak-in£ his- obdrvrftlonv M tfee north of the ,
Texcl, wben the Englidi ftcet is ftatioued ;
to the louth of that river.
Yeflerday at one o'clock, we received by ;
•<J:cprefs, Parts'journals ta the sth instant
inclufivc. We immediately ftqpped the press
to coinmtinicate the fubftanco< of their con
tents, which our readers will fiud fully de
tailed iu our paper of this day.
The contents of the!e_papers, which are
extremely important, juftify all the reflefti
ons which we have lately had occasion to
make on the interunl state of France, and 1
the viev.-s of the diiferent parties in that
diftra&ed country.
It appears from the debates of the coun
cils, thst the ftntement given by the direc
tory of the march of the troops towards
the metropolis was totally falfe., Instead of
nine thousand men, said to be detached
from the army of the Sambre and Meufe,
the detachrhent amounted to between twen- ;
ty-fix and twenty-seven thousand men ! Nor j
wns this force intended, as the direftory !
affirmed, for any naval expedition ; but it
Wi.\ fele&ed, as we supposed, for the ex
press purpose of over-awing,"if not'of dis
solving, the legislative body. The soldiers '
indeed, whose minds had been poisoned by !
emissaries from Paris, and by the Jacobin
journals, which were the only papers they
were permitted to read, openly proclaimed
the objeit of their march, and uttered the
grossest calumnies against the two councils.
And netwithftapding the order received
from the minister of war to return to the
station which they had left, they continued
their narch to Paris, in'obedience to the
commands of their general Hoche, who
has by this aft openly hoisted the standard
of rebellion.
Our readers will recollect, that we stated,
some time since, that Hoehe and his army,
known to be determined Jacobins, were the
instruments on whom the directory chiefly
relied for perpetuating their own despotic
power, and for carrying into cffe£t their
own unconstitutional designs.
The direttory also appear to have effectu
ally secured the proteftion of 'the army of
Italy. Addreftcs have been received from
two more .divisions of that army, which
breathe the rankest spirit *f Jacobinism ;
vow implicit obedience, not to the eonftitu
tion, but to the directory ; and devote their
enemies to instant deftruftion. These ad-"
dresses, though the very aft of deliberation
by which they were preceded was a direst
violation of a conftitujional provision, have
been published by thfdireftory, who hare,
, iu consequence, been called on by the coun
cil of five hundred to account for their con
duft. '
Meanwhile a formidable force, supposed
to amount to men, has arrived at
Paris, in ftuall parties ; so that there can
be little doubt but that the direftory will
set the legislative body at defiance, and ef
feftually triumph over the cofiftitution.
Another message was delivered to the
council, on the 2d instant, oh the fubjeft
ot the finances, which are again stated to
be in a most deplorable situation. It seems,
indeed, that the direftory are either anxi
ous to impute this distress to the inefficient
proceedings of the council, or, by a re
petition of meffages'on a ftibjeft so import
ant, to divert their attention from those
vigorous measures which they evince a dis
position to addpt, for confining the govern
ment within the bounds prescribed by the
eonftitution.
Every circumstance combines to fanftion
the fnppofition that some dreadful explosion
is on the eve of taking place. A number of
foreigners have crouded to the capital, and
the terrorists, from the different departments
have joined them. In (liort, that devoted
city now wears the very fame appearance
which it has invariably exhibited previous to
every public corfi motion or massacre finct?
the year 1789. '
Buonaparte, unused to contradiction, has
exprefiTed his,difpleafure in strong terms, at
the' refufal of the Swiss to grant a pafiage to
his troops through their territory ; aiid he
has even threatened to piocure by force
what entreaties have failed to obtain.
Mallet da Pan, to his honor beat spoken,
is pursued with unrelenting animotity by the
French government. He has been com
pelled toliavmMovat for Fribourg, and it is
supposed jfiil'be ultimately obliged to seek
for refuge^n*England.
Reports prwailed at Paris, that the ne
gocialiori at Li fie was fulpended, from the
exorbitant pretcuJions of" the direftory, who
are even said to haVc opesly declared, that,
41 ■ the royalist faftion, alone, is desirous of a
peace with England." What foundation
there is for such a report, it is not possible
for us to fay.
We this morning received BrulTels papers
to the 3d inft.
A lettet Jjrom Nuremberg, of the 21ft ult
fays, that the' Suburbs of that city are occupied,
even t6 the very g»te», by grenadiers and Prul
tian cha(Teur»; the Hufiars are in cantonments
ip the neighbouring villages. A'.tho' the bar
racks had b>-en evacuated by the Prussians, their
fentincls still remained there.
Aceordi'ng to the lettefs from Kiffingen, of
tn» 13d ult. a Courier had paile.t through thit
pl.ice, on his way t» the Duke of Meinugen, at
Bruchenau, with intelligence of 30,000
aps having marched for the environs of Mag-
iffi.coo of which were destined for the
country of IVleintigen ; 10,000 more for that of
Hildeiibirigliaufen, and the remainder for the
Principality of Cobourg. Orders have been
given for cuttfhg the wheat in th« country of
Meinugen, although not yet ripe.
Lettel 8 from Ritifbon of thd 24th ulc. state,
tliat the imperial minister had announced to the
Diet, that tbw contributions, rtquifitions, &c.
of the French in the Empire, would feoil he at
anerrt. He declared that his imperial majefly
liadfecn*' with the most lively fatitfadion, from
t-be lettet- thanks latelraiKlceiTed to him in the
na/ne of the Gtrmanic Boily, the fentimcatsof
giatifu.de which his ei ergetic intfrvfntion for
the welfare of the empire had generally excited j
'liat this agreeable disposition would have the
of engaging him to continue for the fu
tite his" interpntition with all that zeal with
elicit his paternal falicitude inspired him ; and
3 tne ijtepe that his further effort? would pr'o
«ice the best tffrilis, he recommends it to the
Diet to content themfe'ves for the pre.sent wish
quietly waiting the fefiilt. In fine, his imperi- ,
al inajcfly does not think it n<"ccfliry to commu
nicate this to the Di tby z formal decree but '
has preferred adopting the mtjde of confident!- '
allv acqajjntirttr them with it by means of the '
imperial commilTary; he will riot, however, e
fail to fly more when affairs shall be ripe enough f
to warrant him in to doing. 1 t
The accounts from Turin, dated on theud j
ult. represents that city as vtry tranquil, nat-
Witliflaiidiug the attempts of a few persons to '
excite commotion on pretence of the high price a
of bread.
VV'e are happy to be able to Rate, that the re- e
ports in circulation of the deaih of Sir John Bor- r
Safe Warren, has received no confirmation, and
is generally discredited.
\ 2
PARIS Aug. 4. ,
THk T R WOP S 1"
ORDGfUD AGAIN TPJVRIS. ]
It was a gi'Mt error in the Councils to sup
pose that the only queflion in related o
to an inereafe of the army which surrounded
Paris by fix thousand men.
Twenty-five thoufaml men have been led §
thither, carrying with them a formidable train
of artillery. These, with the trodps already A
Rationed there, form an army of forty thousand c
men, eight thcufand of whom are cavalry. t>
Very few of them have retreated, and those
who have done so, have only retreated a small
distance
This army surrounds Pari- within fifteen
leagu .s. and can repair thither in a day —They
ran, at pleasure, starve it, by flopping the !üb
flftence. We can fay nothing on their remaining J
there, as it is out of the Constitutional Circle— J
we (bould n»t have known of its arrival if, by e
an unfucky routine, they had not entered thit n
important circle. The only thing which wiil .
become an objefi: v nf enquiry if the two pewers 11
(hill not soon come to a good nndtrUanding for v
the public good, and that their hoftiHty is not e
brought to a conclusion, is. how they havedaK a
ed ta ftiip the a-my of the Sambre and Meufe j
of part of its for»t, atyito fuffer it to take this f
menacing pewrr apinft the central City, an<t •
Lceifl'five Body of the Republic, without the
confvyit of the Mirrifttr at War, and the Prefi- '
dent of the Difeftnry, to whom the Con'tiiu- c
«ion intrusts the fuperintendance of these orders. 1
A-qguft
"There is not a Repr-efrntariye of the People
who does no' receive lett-rs from his Depart
ment, er it» Jitighbourbo *l, tbat ba,d Citizens, f
'persons to whom the Amnesty t extended, and {
others of the fjmedefcription arc palling to and ;
fr»m Paris, with a view to effef> a great ftrokc. '
We hare leeu i great number i>f these letters, 1
we cannot putlilh afl -1 them, but the fallowing '
are two of the number . -
TWarfcilles, July 23. *
" I can aXure you, Citizen, that the Central '
committee have tjelivered 203,paflportu for Pa
ris to men of iriore than fufpeifled 1
and that 'htfe «ii n are'on the road so this Ca
pital. 5 kmw not what they are about, but
the infolenre of our Terrorists leads us to fuf- |
peift, that a new 31ft rtf May is at hand, tfaften |
to organize the National Guard.
Letter to another Representative.
f " Geneva, July 25. ,
" Genevi is now to furnilh recruits for Pa- 1
rii. 1 can affureyou <hit a good number of Ja- t
cobins have set «ff for place." <
COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED.
Sitting of August 2.
A mefTag''? was read from the Direftory. |
It announces that it has given orders for the ,
issue of the expences of tl decade of 1
Therm idor, which amount to twenty mil
-1 lions, The produce of the receipt in the de
partment! amounts only to ft* millions, leav- 1
ing a deficit of fourteen millions, without
including in that sum the expenees of grow
ing interest. The recepts of the whole
month of Thcrmidor will OBly. amount to
twenty-three millions ; — M and theft fads,"
continues the Directory, " prove the infuf- I
ficiency of the present means. We have
commissioned the minister of Finance to lay
before us a report on the revenue and ex
penditure of the state, and on the means of
eftablithing a just balance between them.
We annex this to our message, and request
you to take it into conlideration."
The council ordered the tteffage and the
report to be printed, and to be referred to
a committee, after being read.
The President announced to the council,
that an infinity of very important objefts ;
claimed their attention, and that th^fitting
of the next day would open at noon.
Sit'ing of August J.
The central adminiftration'of the depart- J
ment of the Rhone denounces to the coun
cils, in conformity with the terms of the
constitution, the order of the D'reftory, I
relative to the Commune of by
which the commviJant of that place is au- i
thorifed to put it in a state of liege.
Referred to the committee on that fub
jeft.
. SITTING OF AUGtIST 4.
Delarue.—" I come in the name of your
committee of infpeftors, to make the report
which you required on the march of the ;
troops.
" It refulu from the information we have !
procured, i
1. That from 26 to 27,000 men have 1
been detached from the army of the Sambre ;
and Meufc, instead of 6000, as was said by I
Gen. Hoche.
2. That this force direfted its march to
wards Paris. ✓ •
3. That a formidable train of artillery
followed this force, which was to be en
camped at St. Denis, Etampes, and the cir- '
cumjacent places.
3. That the extraordiny expenceincurred
by this march had exhausted the funds of
the receivers in the departments, and parti
cularly that of Marue, whence they exaftcd
the sum of 40,000 livres in fpccie.
5. That several requisitions were levied,
for want of billets, and considerable depre
dations committed.
" The minds of the troops have been
misled and seduced. All the soldiers and
officers prefer the most absurd jnd the most J
injurious accusations against the Legislative ;
Body. Libels are dispersed through the
armies ; the Friend of the Laws,and the Cen
| tinel, are the only Jurnals which reach them,
j Notwithstanding the order to make a retro
gade movement, a great number of troops
j continue .their march to Paris, by order of
Gen. Hoche, and in spite of the opposition
of Gen. Fering, who received a counter-or
der from the minister of war.
"The legion called the Franks, which
was formed in contradi&ion to the law, has
disbanded itfelf, and dispersed 'about the
country. The corps who received orders
to retreat, repair to Paris in small parties,
and without regimentals. Citizen Lefage
appears to have taken a g'eat part in all
these manoeuvres. At Chartes 500 banditti
have been provided with amis and rmmuni
tion. Paris is filled with foreigners, who
are #itrfting for blood and pillage.
" The armies deliberate, correspond with
each other, pass rcfolut'ons, and issue procla
mations, with which all France is inundated.
What has the government done to prevent
all these abuses ?"
The reporter, without entering into long
refledb'ons, proposed to fend a mefiage to the
DircdWy, to ask them—
1. Whether they have received the parti
culars which they promised, of the march of
the troops ? They shall be called upon to
give an answer in three days.
2. What measures they have taken to
stop the violation of the 27th article of the
constitution, which forbids the armed force
to deliberate ?
The council adopted these propositions,
and ordered the report to be printed.
LONDON. August 5.
The aflions of the boats, in Which Rear
Admiral Nelson was engaged, was most
desperate ; they were close to each other,
endeavouring to board ; the Admiral had no
more than 16 again# 26, and his boat
infinitely' smaller. Capt. Freemantle, who
was the officervvith the Admiral, W3S wound
ed in the face ; a Spaniard snapped a pistol
at'him, which, mifling fire, he immediately
threw it with the utmost violence in his
fate. THe captain, however, notwithftand
ing> immediately got on board and cut him
down. Admiral Nelson was save.d by the
exertipn and courage of the matter of the
Ville de Paris.
GLASGOW, Augnft 8.
Paris papers till, the V ihvorbs®! received
since our ufV Very little is said in thtm upon the
1 fubjea) 'of the negotiation. A rumour, however,
prevailed at Paris, that the conferences at Lisle had
been suspended, till the different plenipotentiaries
receiva ioflru&ions as to fomerqueftionl of a diffi
cult nature. The directory, it is surmised, have
got the army to ifeliherate upon the jairings which
have tak<-n place at Pari* between them and the
two councils. Maffena's diyifion has already ad
dress d the direilory in very flrong terms, and
threaten to march to Paris to put their enemies to
death ;" L t them trembU!" fay they, " Yes, let
these eonfpirators tremble !-Tbe fwordlwbith have
extermimted the armies of kings, art flill in the
hands of the conquerors of the Rhine, of theSam
bre and Menfe, an l of Italy."
The bombardment of Cadiz is ftillcarrisdon
The Spanilh merchants, &«. hire offered rewards
to fueh fcamen as aA gallantly. Gen, Maffaredo
has offered 1000 piallres to those who shall fink or
talu* a Britift chaloupe. Tartanes have been arm
edT/ith 36 pounders, and furnaces for red hot balls.
The Spaniards are praparing for sea.
CADIZ, July 17.
At last the Britilh, who bombarded this town,
have been for<-<-d to retreat, after having loft two
of their artiiSd chaloupes. Their fleet was com
manded by cotnmodore Nelson.
We yet fear ,-f new attack. It appears that the
objefl of this terrible bombardment is to £et fire to
the Spaniihfcjuajron.
From the Brussels papers.
I.ett«r« from Lilbcnfpeak in terms of certainty
of the embarkatir-n of 10,'00 Englith troops, for
an. unknown exjtedition, of whi-h it is apprehend
ed that Cadi; is the ol'jeA.
It is certain that if the EngUlh (hou)d be abl» to
repnlfj: the Spanilb ilnttlU, they will eafilymake
tliemftlves mailers of Cadiz, by a descent on the
land si le, where the refinance cannot be great
The Spanish fleet ?,nd arsenals will be 1011, and alt
will fall into the of the enemy. Thu« the
fa!<; of the Spanilh marine will depend on the fto
t illa, and no situation can be more critical. The,
nava' force In Cadiz roads is an ohjcfi milch
to be coveted by the En^lifli; it consists of 'he
squadron under the command of admiral Maffare
do' coinpofcf! of 26 (hips' o{ the line, rle»en fri
gates ; three fliips of the line, a frigate, a cutter
anl three brigantincs, all ready for Vera.Cruz;
and lately, three ships of the l ne which sreecjuio
: ping. Total thirty two (hips of the line, twelve
frigatos, a cutter, and Kricantines.
NEW YO»Rlv, Septetnber 19.
\_Handed its lass Evening—to be dependedon.~\
J A Correfptndcnt informs us, that several
circumstances have lately tranfpiird, which
give just re'afon to fufpedt that our dearly
! beloved allies have had a hand in the dreadful
Fire which happened at Albany.—He has
undoubted authority in aflerting that a
Frenchman by the name of Plautan, who
has lately been committed to jail in Pough
j keepfie for stealing, enquired of a petfon
from Albatiy just after the lire, whether the
Recorder's house was burnt?. Upon being
told it was not, he with some ehagth'n
I said " that the original plan has been devi
j ated from." One Jourdan, a Frenchman,
. who lived next door tb the Recorder's moved
| from Albany to Boston a few weeks before
1 the fire, and had his house well insured at
; Boston. From the above circumstances, we
i are led to fu%eft that the n>onfters who
i took flicker on our hofpitable/horesfrom the
! persecutions of tWeir cat-throat countrymen,
| are the vipers whom we should keep <m ea
gle's eye upon, left their infernal plots be
carried into fatal execution.
! Some under-agents in the horrid fire at
; Albany, taken up on suspicion, have last
Wednesday confeffed that they robbed the
United States Store at that place a few
nights before the fire, where they procured
some combustible fluff with which they set
. fire M>thc city; that theii* intention v.-aa to
fi;e it in several places at once, but afton
; ifhed at the rapid progress it made they
thought it unnecefl'ary. . ft behoves the ci
. tizenß of the United States to keep a vigi
lant look out lei); the property of our citizens
I fuffer the fnfuing winter from the infernal
! demons whom our arms have been open to
flielter from the fury of their merciless coun
trymen. '
The following State of the Negocktion relative
to the American and Spanijl Limits, was lajl
evening handed us by a gentleman who left
New Orl ans the 15 th ult.
" Aboht the middle of Jtine. the inhabitants
of Natchez, learning impatient of the delay on
the par! of the Spaniards rn delivering up the !
Pqfis, formed a regular military force of about
ten companies, and inuijltd the house of Gorier- I
nor Gayofo, although Mr■ Ellicott used every [
exer'ion to reflrain them from-proceeding to of- j
fen/ive operations. This attaek, which wfs
made tutth a view of forcing the Spaniards to
abandon the Nate hex, ended, however, by Mr. j
Ellicott's amicab'e interference, who prevented
the menaced Infinities, and obtained from the
Gov. a promise to suspend the military govern
ment of that DiflriS ; and that tlx inhabitants
fhrfuld be canfideredin aflate of Neutrality, until
the Pofls were formlly delivered up. Governor
Gayofo and Mr. Ellicott were, during these !
proceeding, and have ever since been on the mofl
friendly footing,
About the icth July, Governor Gayofo re- ■
ceiled notice of his promotion to the government
of Louisiana, and of the appointment of Ijtons.
Grandpre's to fuccced him at Natchez. Accor
dingly the former arrived in New Orleans on
the 6th ult. and toook pof-lftyn of his govern
ment. At the period of the commotions at the
Natchez, and ever find, Governor Gayofo
reiterated his promises of a speedy evacuation of
Natchez ; and Mr. Ellicott appeared to enter
tain hopes of fucctedmg without much further
delay ; but our correspondent conceives that I
those hopes were very delusive, and that the pofls '
will nqt be delivered up before a general peace
takes place, unless the main objlacfe fviz. the
grant of the navigation of the MJfijfippi to
Great Britain Jin cont invention to the treaty
between Spain and the United States, is previ
ously removed.
.BOSTON, -Sept. 15.
Captain Crust, of the Pomona, df this
place, carried into Carthagena, finding no
profpeft of recovering his vtfTel again, after
remaining there a considerable time, depirt
ed for America in the Swedish snow Nep
tune» bound to Baltimore ; was soon after 1
again taken, and conduced to Carthagena, I ■
by the unreflrained Frcneh pirates of the j ■
Mediterranean. While we sincerely com- 1
mif:rate the fufferings of captain Crust, we ■
derive a fort of melancholy fatisfadtion from
the evidence afforded, that the capture of !
our veflels i 9 not owing to any particular
conc\udt of our government, but is the ef
feft of a disposition for general plunder,
which adtuates Frenchmen. . *
The trial which commenced oa Thursday
last. against Jethro Huffey, Albert Gardner,
Wm. Coffin, Jame* Barker and Randal
Rice, citizens of Nantucket, charged with
robbing the Bank of that town, elofed on
Tuesday evening, and yesterday morning
the Jury gave in their verdidt ; the 4 firft
were acquitted, and Randal Rice found
GUILTY. We hear the Court have sus
pended his sentence until the next term, u
pon his recogniiing bimfelf to the President
and Diredtors of the Nantucket Bank, in
treble the value of the money stolen, being
60,000 dollars, with fufficient surety or
sureties in the fame sum, r to the fatisfa&ion
of the Diredtors of said Bank, to respond
the treble damages that may be awarded a
gainst' him ; also to the Commonwealth ill
400 dollars, himfelf as principal, with sure
ties in the fame sum to appear next terfa,
to receive sentence on said indidtment, and
to stand committed until -sentence be so re
cognised.
On Wedntfday. Stephen Smith, convicted 1
»f Burglary, received fthtence of death. On
this oecafion, for the firft time since he was ap- j
prended, he' evinced a decree of penitence- * I
The tears, at last, reached hi# eyes, though
he yrt b«l tuo much hardihood to fuller them to
trickle down "his checks, the day of execution i
remains to be fixed by the Governor and
cil.
The French Commiffionere at St, Domingo, j
have put Mobiles in rrquifition. They are ;
disposed to sweeten their last moments. Tbev
mult ere this h,ave received notice of their
recall.
HALIFAX, (N. S.J Auguft'29.
This morning arrived nis majesty's (hip
Thifbe, capt. Hardy, from a cruise.
The Thifbe has brought in with her a Spa- :
nifh brig from the Havannah, laden with j
indigo and other valuable articles, and we j
hear (he has also on board a considerable sum- i
of money—She js a prize to his majesty s
ships Alia, Thifbe and Rover.
September 9.
Sunday last arrived majefty's (hips
Afiiftance, capt. Mowat, and Andromeda,
eapt. Taylor, from the Chei'apeake—they
have brought in for adjudication, (hip Re
becca, from St. Domingo in ballast, and
trig Faithful, from the Havannah, but
last from Philadelphia, with sugars.
■amwmr&rmm" iwanyTUIHI. .»HIUHM
PhIfyiDELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY FANNING, Septemb r ic.
By the advices -this day published, it is
rendered probable that the conftitution-ms
kers of Sans-Culotte land, that great nurse
ry of pirates, aflaffins and robbers, are, ere
this, once rr.orc blown 'up.
A new, long and violent contest will suc
ceed ; but the ifTue will be favourable to
Franceand tomankind—the King shall have
his own again, and America and the world
(hall" have peace. Adieu, then, to MefTi
dftr and Prair al, to Pluviofe and
Ventofe, and Sans-culottides, and all the
long train of cabalistic nonsense, which have
poisoned the French name in all quarters of
the world.
Surgo, take thy last subsidy feize on it
quickly—for thymafters ere this are no more
—thy occupation's gone; '
COMMUNICATION.
A citizen of Philadelphia, who lately
rethmed from captivity in Algiers, informs
us that the physicians of that country have
1 [ lately applied plentiful bleeding and mer-
I cury to the cure of the Plague.—He fays
he was en red of that disorder by sixteen
1 bleedings and a falivatiou.
' CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
From the 19th to 2otbSept. in the morning.
1 Admitted, fmee; last report,
jjatrifs Johnfotv —John Picken's, Spruce,
! ' between sth and 6th streets
James Stutton—Mrs. Bullet's, Penn-ftreet
Mary (Negro)— Mr. Neron's, Shippen, a
bote 3d street
Elizabeth Cotter—Well's alley, Northern
Liberties
Barney O'Neal—Market-ftreet wharf.
Died, firice last report,
Arnold Craigh 29 hours after adrniffion
John Fletcher 24 do.
Patrick Dougherty 24 do.
Daniel M'Carter 2rdo.
James Johnson, 16 do.
Mary (a negro) 6 d».
Remaining last Report 47
Admitted fuice, 5
\ _
S 2
Discharged NONE
Died 6 6
Remain inHofpital, I Cpnjilefcents 9 1
, I.Sick 37 J ■
oix ot whom are dangerous.
Interred in City Hospital burying ground
since last report :
From tke city and suburbs 6
From the city hospital 6
Total 12
Stephen Girard,
{Signed) Caleb LowneST
John Connelly.
Publiflied by order of the B^oard,
JOHN LETCH WORTH.
Chairman pro tem.
lick at the Hospital being in rede
of fliirt3,-~»fhifts and other linens, fucli bene
volent persons as are disposed to fend any,
will plcafe to leave them at the City Hall.—
I Oat straw is also much wasted, and will be
1 thankfully received at the Hospital, and
j paid for if required.
Totals of burials for 24 hours, ending yefler
day at noon.
Grown Perfoni. Children.
Christ Church » o
Third Frefbytctian « o
Second Prsfbyterhn 1 o
Friends ' o 1
Baytifts I O
City Hospital* 8 o
Kenlington % o
Total 15 I
* Four of tbefe from the cily.
Charity S rmon. '■
The Rev. James Abercrombik,
•willpreach a Charity Sermon on Sunday after
noon nixt, at tlx Calvinifl -Church, German
town, for the relief of the poor of Philadelphia,
whose fujferings during the present calamity
mujl claim the a3ive sympathy of the benevolent
and humane.—Germantoivn, 1 Stpt. 18.
j gazette Marine list.
1 Port of Philad^iphia.
■d pilot of refpe&ability informs thai on Fri
day lajl he Jaw the French privateer capture an
inward bound brig jufl off the capes.
j. New Tori, September 19.
«*tiVH). DAYS.
Ship Christiana, Bern, NeWrOrleans 33
Fanny, Brain, Greenock 36
Columbus, Hervy, Montego Bty 38
Brig Thos. Pinckney, Alien, ftharlelton 15
Trio, Story, Havminah 23
Mary, Shell, St. Domingo 35
j Sch. Regulator, Roun, Norfolk
Polly, Hervey, Richmond «• 6
. Dispatch, Clarke, New-Orleans 42
Sloop. Romeo, Tinker, Charleifon
Eagle, Hudfcfti, Richmond iy
| Ship Columbia, capt. Harvey, 38 days
j from Montego Bay,'on the 12th in ft. spoke
brig , capt. Win. Williams, bound to
Philadelphia, then having a pilot on board
8 days, long. 75,'30, lat. 37, 00. Same
day spoke a schooner, J. thurch, mailer,be
i longing to New York, from Fayal/43 days
1 out, bound horr>, very fliort of provilions
On the 29th Aug. at 2, P. M. hove to for
a gun fired from one of the men war, 5 fail
in company, and at 4, P. M. tyns boarded
by the Regulu 14 gun f»p, and after ex
amination was permitted to proceed on our
voyage. v
Wilmington, N. C.) Sept. 7.
Captain Cross, in the brig Neptune, ar
rived here 011 Saturday last, from Kingffoa.
(Jamaica) Augu'ft 1,9, fit lat. 21, 42,Jong.
Ifpoke the hrig , captain Art, 5
deys from Kingston, bound to Philadelphia,
—all well. On the 22d, in lat. 2£, 35,
long. 86, spoke the schooner , cap
tain Chaise, from Montego Bay, bound to
Newbern— .7 days out. On the 2'9th, lat.
2g, 58, long. 79, saw five fail oflarge bat
tle Ihips standing to the eallward. The next
day spoke the schooner , captain Aver
i leth, in latv 30, 41, long. 78, 45,, from
Kingston, bound to Norfolk.
Captain Davis, of the schooner Margaret,.
• arrived here on Monday last, from St. Croix.
On the 29th of August, in 4at. 28, 40,
lotig. 74, 8, W. spoke the schooner Mercu
-1 ry, of and from Charleston, bound to Aux-
Cayes—out ten days—r»ll well.
At the Federal Blast Furnace,
1 (n Carver —for ilitth.g Platting, and Rolling
'■ f ILLS.
SEYMOUR's Patent Rollers.
THEIii superiority coxfijL ip be nf free frotn
holes and l.oney-coinbgd places, which are com
monly found in rollers cajl in fond, or city
, tno'd'si. Theft fatejit rollers are call in inn
moulds, previovjly heated, and will It found to
re more den lie, Jo/id and durable than any rollers
hrt yore used, Another irripoi tant advantage
ioity, have vv.t others, is Jhet the necks require
r n ■ turning, bat are i nmeda.t ly ufe, and
j from their accuracy, run with Ufs frifticn. and
„ require :efs wate<- tc make ■ them perform their
vjOrk. They -.nay be hnd by application to the
Patentee wPh • «« , nf Get. Ni'hnniel Gb*S-.
s win, or of Mejfrs. Thatcher and Hay ward.
1 JB-Jlon,
Stpt. 19 §tt.ME DOLLARS REWARD. |
AN a'.ray from tbe fubferiber, an inder.ted (
*V Servant Girl, named Nancy 'sw*e»H, a- J:
Knit twei ty years of aga, Ihort, thick set person,
Wit £ fcort black hair ; had on when (he went away, A
n dark calico gewn, an old tihck silk cloak, and a
irWcl; fur bat.' Wl'oever willftcufe laid girl, and |
I ive ii.'nt-r.iauon thereof to the fnblcriWr, No. 2, i
Greenlc f alley, < ;r to the office of this Gazette, *h;
receive tbe above reward. _ ' !lt
AI! p rions are forbid harboring fagirl, as f tra
thev will be dealt wiih 'he law directs ri
MARY ANDERSON, %
N. B. Said Girl is from Ireland, and Jias been in
•bis country H'.t a fliort tin'e ; Ibe wasiiiit to iho
v prk-houfe for mifconduA, wkweihe wMtak.cn
sick to the city-hsfpital, lrom which
place file made her efcapc.
Am<4 .)Q- !^2l—
be lold at Public Vendue,
To the higlieft bidder, at the house of Mr.
William li vans, the sign of the Indian
Qneen, in ibe city of Baltimore, on the- itjtb
day of Oilober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
About seven thousand acres i>f la-id,
the property of William Bel!, bf Philadelphia,
lying between Keifter's-to 1 * 11 and -VVeHminller,
componly called Little Wincheller, (the turn
pike s rpad rims through a ronllderable part of
time lands) the tract begina about' 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards ;
of laid Keiiier's-town, and extends to the dif- |
ta«c< of about twenty-three miles *"rom B.iTti- 1
more, and the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four mUes thereon- Will
he fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to
t'.vc" b'jndred acre. There is a large propof
tioh of meadow ar.rt wood la id on each trail,
fonie of theni highly improved, with excellent
buildings an.t fine gr. fs.
ai so
A traft of seven hundred acres of '
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of K
Bladenfhurei efleenTed very good for Grass.' b ,
Richard Ponfonby.of Blader.lburgh, will (hew j
this land to any person inclined to purchase. l a
ALSO, K
A trad of land ai about three hun-! g
<!red and thirty acres, within about two miles ,
and a half ol the President's house in the Tede- ! __
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpeiJl, fron\ which may be seen the
city of Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and a part of and many
down the Potomac river. Mr, Richard l'or.fon-
by, of Bladen (burg, will also fbew this land. -
A liberal cretlit will be given for the greatett j
part of the purehaf; money. Ihe terms will t
be made known on the day of lale. ] n
" |Vnvß d
just Received,
From Batavia (via Providence)
a few Box's of Spices, confiftiog of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
Forfait by .
WILLING* & FRANCIS, ,
Penn flrcct.
May 30 dtf ]
Davis's Law Book Store, t
Na. 319, High-Street. \
GEUR'GE DAVIS, ;
BEING busied for Come time pad in prepara
tions for removing into h.s prsfent house, has j i
been under thcnecelTityof potlponinguntil thisday ]
informing the gentlemen of the Bar geni-rally thro' ,
the United States, that his spring importation of ,
law books is now arranged ami ready for lale, on
termsthat he trusts will entitle him to the like pre
freence he has exprrienced for years pafl.
Catalogues, combining the most varied collec
tion ever imported i/ito this country, .are printod
and will be delivered on application.
June a 7. - iaw_6w_
City Commijfioners 1 Office,
June 7,2, 1797-
IN ptirfnance of an Ordinance from the feleil
and cojnmon covincfls, pafled the lid day of
Mav laA, appointing the city commifiioneis,
and prescribing their duties, feflion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diftridls,
each to be under the fuperintendancc e>f one of
jhe city commissioners, whoistobe individually
relpotifible for the cleanliness of the fame, and
are as follow.
Driftritft No. I. From the south fide of Ce
dar-flrret, to the north fide i.f Spruce-llr'eet, un
derthe superintendence of Nathan Boys.
2. Prpm the north flde of tpruce-ftreet, to
)he north fide of Walnut-flrcet,under the super
intendence of Hugh Roberts.
V From the north fide tothefouth
fide of lligK-flrcet, under the fliperintendence ot
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the mrth fide of Iligh-llreet, to the
north fid.- of Mulberry street, under the fuper
inttndence r f Willi Jni Moulder.
From the north fide of Mulherry-fti eet to
the north fide of Vine-ilreet, under the super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks-
The cleaningcyniigh-ftreet-« 3 be in common.
A flat-< 1 meeting of the city co/nmifiion
ers is held at 'the Old Co'.rt House, in Higb
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock
July f 4- eo,m
Standi for Draymen, itfe.
In prrfvanet of an Ordinance from tbcScleS and
Common Councils,bearing datltbe 12d day of
April, 1797. providing for tbe appointme.it of
City Commissioners, &c. Heft, the 15th.
rpHE following places are fixed upon by the
1 f a y City Commissioners for Stands for
Draymen and their Horfea.
In Vine-ilreet, eastward of Front-flreet, on
both fides.
?afTafras, High, Chefnnt and Walnut fttreets,
eastward of Frout-ftreet, on the no. th fide only.
Mulb;rry-ftreet, south fide from Front to
Third-llrcet.
Front-llreat, east fide from Vine-street to
? Elfrith'i alley. TI . ,
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hantilton's flores, east fide.
VVater-ftreet, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Moore's (lores to Pine-street.
I'enn-ftreet from Pine to Cedar-ltreet, weft
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-ftrect.
Spruce, Pine and South fireets, eall of Frost
ftrtet, south lidc.
Dock-street, between Walnut-ftrect and the
Sag Done crossings, east fide, opposite Georj^
Orklev's- . , tr ,
Second-ftrect, between SafTifras and Vine
fireets, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet, call fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry fireets.
SafTafras-ftreet, from Third to Fou*th-ftreet,
east fide. „ , , ■ - c
No drav or horse to Hand withy, ten feet of
'"IPTNDS FOR HACKNEY COACIIES.
Pine-street, north fide lrom Fourth to l ifth
Pj,
Fifth-ftreet-, between Chefntit and Walnut.
Branch street, north fidejbetwsen Fhirdand
Fourth iireets.
Tnlv I I.
A. Literary Treat. J
Jujt published, hi-idfomely printed on writing
paper, price I dollar,
A new edition of that popular and erltertainifig
work, entitled "
PHI FORESTERS, an American Talc ; being -t
L u fequcl to the hiilory of John Bull- the Clo* j
thier—ln aferiesoflctter* to a friend, with the ad- 5c <
dit-ion of two letters, alluding to recent political
tranfa&ions in America.
rh« following dv'traif* from th? diva
shews the principal characters that are introduced:
John Bull, the of I'it-odand
His Mother, the Church of England
Mis Wife, the Par liament
His Sifter Peg, the C hut ch Scotland
I lis Brother Patrick, Ireland
I.ewi-vthe ICrguom of France
His Miiircfs, the Old Com'Htution
His n<?wWife 4 the Natioc-t Representation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic l S
The IWeftcrs, the United States of Amenta
Robert Lumber, New-Hampshire 16
John Codline, M iflachufetts 33
Humphrey Plowfhure, Com>eAicut
HLpger Carrier, Rhode lfland 50
Teter Bull Frog, New-York --?
Julius Cajfar, Ncur-Jerfey
William Broadbrim, Pennj/lvania tit
CSllimar, Delaware the
Walter Pipewood, Virginia bil
His Grandson, George Wafliingto*
Peter Pitch, North Carolina, m<
Charles Indigo, South Carolina be
George Trofty, Georgia , et\
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife Kentucky ch
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves W
Rats, Speculators fel
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacohins fqi
•' This popular ami entertaining fatiricilhifto- tw
ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Yhr. Bbl- fjfc
knap- It hasagreat (hire of originality and a- > V ;
bounds with genuine humour. It is continued th
down to the present time, and chara&arifes those L (
late political tranfa&ion* which have cauCed so be
much ureafinefs in America. , in
J Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16, th
1 South Second Street, and No. 50, Markc* ftaeet. be
June 16. i)
LAW BOOKS, I
Latefl London and Dublin Editions. '
H. P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street, f>
HAVE just received by the Ute arriva's from G
London and Dublin, their spring importa- ai
j tion, confiftingof a variety of the latest and mod
1 approved Taw Books, to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the mod exteafive colle<slion ev
er offered for sale in this country. They theiefore
hep leave to that from the nature of their
conneilicnsin Dunlin, they are enabled to (elllrifh j
editions (as they have hitherto at the very u
lowed prices- The following are among the latest c
publications.
Vefey, jan*rs Reports in Chancery, z t
Pcake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's t
in the time of Lord Hardwicka ; Floycr*s Probers I
Pra&ice in the Ecciefiaftical Courts ; Barton st
Treatiiit on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's Pra&ice of c
the Court of King's Bench in Personal Anions, x f
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise 1
ou Ufa ; modern Reports, vols. London eili- 1
tion. t f
H. and P. Rice cxf>e£ t® receive by the firfl ar- I
! rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of I
£>urnford and Eafl's Reports, the 2d part of Gil- <
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of 1
new publications.
June ifc
The History ps Pennsylvania,
By KOBERT PROUD,
Ig now in the prefe, and will be published,
with all convenient expedition, by Zi-Cha
- riah Poulson, jon. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will.continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
j according to tbe printed propcfals, until the
r work is ready for the fubferibers.
July 18. lawtf
Printed Calicoes.
f JOHNMILLER, Jun. & Co.
7 No. t Cbefnut-Street,
1" Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly aflbrted, very low on
- (hort credit.
March 6. _ §
„ Richard, and James Potter
HAVF. removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftreet.
h /< Uguft 2. W&f6t
Lanca'icr, Harrijburgh Carlijle,
e Stuppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
0
.. public are requcfled to take notice, that
JL the partherlhip which has fer fometinn fub
-1 lifted bctwea* Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is nor/ diifolved ; but, not as M.
Slough infiiiuatest<vtbe public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear bya letter on the fub
jeit from M. Stough to W. Gccr, dated the 19th
- December last. a recital ps which is not now deem
ed necefiary. Auy gentleman who wilhes to be
more circumllat\tially infurmed of the merits «if
this bufineCs, by applying to W. Geer may have
f the perusal »f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
'J at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfed'.y jufti6abie in attaching him
le felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
r Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
ln Now from tbe liberal and yrneroV support the
public were pleased to confer ot>. the firft effort in |
s > this business, William Geer, in conjunisli<jn with
y. Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to to profecW and carry it on, with every carc, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
to lie can poflibly curt.
The above company, who are amply provided
il- with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fcfe and commodious, inform
of thofa wno wiih to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their /eats at
•ft George Weed's, the Cgn of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harri(bur«;,
Rt Carlisle and Shippeufburg. The fare as hitherto
eftablifned.
1 For the further aecommsdation ol the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from ths house
of Samuel F.lder, m Harrifturg, arrive at Sun
■bury in Northumberland county every Thursday,
ne and return from thc"ee and arrive at Harrifbarg
every Saturday, so that passengers cteftjped for
ll " Lancaftcr or Philadelphia, nay proceed o« Mon
days.
:t, WILLIAM GEER.
lancaftcr, Jan. 27, 1"97-
ot N. B. This Line as Stages Harts from the
hmife of William Ferr«c, in Lanca!hr, on every
Tiielday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
'h ceeding to the weftweird; and from the houf>.- of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wodnef
"t day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
id from thence on every ThurfSay : performing the
fame routine daily as in its lour hOKi Philadel
phia.
City of Waillingtron. |
S CHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
Fdr tht ImprcfJement of toe Federal City•
A
3c cash are sn»°o°5 n »°o°
1 ditto x c,ooo & cafs *5> 0()8 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & tafh 15,000 50,000
1 ditto 10,000 «c calh 10,000 jo,<*:o
I ditto 5,000 & tafh 5,000 jo, 000 L
1 ditto 5,000 Si cash j.ooo 10,000
1 cs!!i prize of ro,ooo '"j
1 do. 5,000 each,are • jo,ooo
10 do. 1,000 - - 1 10,00 c •
30 do. 500 • *" 1 ft, 000
00 do. 100 - " 10,000
joo do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do, - - j 0,000
I,coo do. jo - 10,000 j n
is,occ do. ir - 159,000 1
* . '.
16,7,?9 Prizes. p £
33,161 Bianka. dr
•50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollari, 400,000 Bi
N. B. Tofavour those who may take a quan
tity ol Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars wjll be
the l«jt drawn ticket, and the 30,060 the last
but oss :
And approved notes, femring payment in either
monsy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not lefschan 30 ticlc
ets. 1
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpeciroen of
cheprivaite buildiDgs to }>e ez-iiled in the City of
Washington—Two beautiful defigas are already
fcleSbd fop.the entire frontt on two of the public
squares; from these drawings it ispropefed to ereiSl _
twocentreand''oitrcor*erbßildings.as loon aspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in S<
the manner deferibed in the scheme for the Hcte!
Lottery. A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print- <
ing, &c. and the surplus will be tnade a part of \
the fund intended for the National University, to A
be ereulcd within the city of Wafhihgton. a
The realfecuritiesgiven for the payment of the j,
Prizes, are held by the Prefidcnt and two Direfl
or» of the Bank of Columbia, and are va!»edat 3
more than half the amount of the lottery. e .
SAMVKL SLODQFT. a |
.§, Tieketsmay be had at the Bank of Colam
hi-j ; of Jamet Weft & Co.. Baltimore; of Fetcr
Oilman, Bodon ; of Johp Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Wnlls, Cooper't Ferry.
mwf P
From the Qtfego Herald. f.
CAUTION. 'J
WHEREAS a combination of men in that ' „
county have undertaken to enrich th«m- : t/
felves,by fabricating titles to sundry valuable trafls h
of land, the property of gentlemen living in New , c
York, Philadelphia, London and Faris, for which ! *
trails of lind large funis of money have been paid j f'
to thfcfe fraudulent men, by innocent purchasers • | f
It is therefore just that public information should 1 2
be given, to the end, that the injured may seek re- j 1
! rfrel's while the men have property, and are to be (
found. Those who have been discovered are Tru- j (
man Harrifon, Joseph Witcomb, said now to re- t
ftde in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and (
fcveral others who go under fiilitious names. 1* h ,
■ supposed that the lands offered fcr sale on those fa- j ,
f bricated titles, are at lead worth fifty thousand 1 ,
• dollars. Such as we have aftual knowledge of are ! i
f OS follows ; Lot! No. II and 11, Otfego patent, I
thousand acres each, the a3ual property of William j
Dcllwyn, now of London ; lots No. 58 and 64, ; «
- fame potent, thousand acr«6 each, the property of 1
Mr. Ch'aumont, now of Paris, and James Avenll
and others, ol tUt Staoe. There it foine grounds '
t to suppose that the lands of Richard Wells and
I Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their
management. —The Printers will do well to give
' e thita place in their papers, as well to caution the
public agaiuft pvirchafing those lands, as also to de
' prive those men in future from imposing 011 indivi-
C duafs, which their education and address have en
abled them to do heretofore. Witcomb has been
a fliopkceper of some note in this country.
The following affidavits will set in a clear point
of view the wickednefsof those .men, which when
the public have perused, will indute &«m to ex
cuse the interference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July lßth, 17J7- ,
I Thomas Kelly, of the County of Otfego, hav
n ing been led into an error, by John Witcemb and
Truman Harrifon, of the fame County, to ftgn a
deed to them, for lot No. 58, O'.fego patent, which
was the property of William T. Franklin now Mr.
Chamont's and others; and further the
and Truman did persuade me to do thin againit my
inclination, which was made out oxl the icth day
of November, 1793, or set back two years so as
to bring it to that time ; and further the name of
Pardon Starks tathat decdwat a fiilttious nam.',
'' there being no f«cb perlon thA"e. 1 o this I make
voluntary oath. THOMAS KELLY.
19th July, 1797-
On the :9th July, 1797. came personally before
me, Thomas Kelly, the fubfenber to the above af
lat fjdavit, and made folcran oath that it contains noth
b- ing but ih« truth.
ml HLIHU PHINNEY, Justice of the Peace,
d. On the 18th July, 17V7. ™e before me J. cob
e ; Kibby, a person by me well known and worthy of
b- good credit, who on hi* solemn oath did fay, that
th two of the parties ahovementionrd did make ap
a- plication to.'him this deponent, some time in the
be winter of 1796, to make*them a deed fcr two thou
ff sand acrts of land in the Otego patent, and pro
ve mifed this deponent a share of the profits, on the
be sale of said lands, for his so doing ; and t'V.t they
ff. made application fcveral times for the some purpoe,
xi- which fprvicas this deponent as often reiufedjde
he clarine to them that he had no right to lands,"at'd
if- could So no such thing ; which daring attempt on
thisdsponent's integrity he had related among his
he ft iendt feveraliimee, previous to making this affi
in davit. JACOB KIBBfiY.
ith Sworn before me,
ed ELIHU PHtNNEY, Jufticeof the Peace,
at- Aug. f. iaw4W.
lb " Thirty Dollars Reward:
[ed T? LOPED from the service of the fubfi riber,
to -til on the 19th instant, a negro man by the
rm name of DICK, about twenty-five years of age,
:hc and five feet nine or ten inches high ; by trade
at a carpenter, and is a very lively brisk work
fe, man. His countenance is very good —When
lay spoken to, he converges with eale and confi-
r K> dence, and is pretty sagacious. I purchased
rto the fai l fellow of Mr. Dubney Miner, in whose
name he lias been advertised in the Richmond
!lc > Jiewfpipers. During his last runaway trip (last
fumnier) he was employed a considerable length
oftime, by some person near Dumfries, from
''' which oircumftance, I (onjedlnre, hehastaken
another rtothe'in <oute. I fcrewarm all persons
, 1 frorh giving him of any kind
whatever, and maftersof vefielsand others, from
carrying him out of tiit» state. Ihe above re
ward will be given if he is taken within forty
, mites of this city; and an additional sum, in
proportion to the distance he may be brought,
ro . or the trouble and expciice the apprehender may
n r beat, iu bringing him to this place.
, ef : . AUG; DAVIS.
N. B. liis apparel was of the usual negro kind,
ms but he bad more cloaths. (han is culiomary for
the them to hoflefs. ' . „
tel. A.D.
Richmond, June H» 1797-
Will be Landed,
Flora on board the fliip Afiive, Capt. Blair, from
Hamburgh,
io ba!f' white Russia clean Her.ip L.
1 casts Clover Seed e ,
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leujfer, •
North Fifth ft-rect, No. 34. tit
Tune t6. * . * ' ;vu
William HJaekburn,
LOTTERr and BROKER'S OFFICE "
No. 64 south Second-flreet. "
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery-, No. IL, wLich "
commenced drawing the 19th May, FOR (i
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in pronor- «
tion as the drawing advances, particularly ou ac- «<
ccunt of the five firft drawn tickets\ prizes of a
four thousand dollars each, on the last day ot u
drawing. «
Check Books kept for examination and register- u
ing, in the Caqal, No. 2, City of Waflxingtori, No. u
2, and PaterWp Lotrericia.
Also, tickets for sale in the Schuylkill bridge and (|
Perk:omen Bridge loltpriea, which will begin (g
drawing in the course of the Cummer.
The buiinefs of a Broker in all kinds of S#*ck,
Bills, Notes, Land?, &c-Sic. tranfa<ftcd with the
utmost a:tention. u
June 2 tufrf a t
Erfkine'a View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED, in
By ROBERT 'CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes and, Canfequen
ces of tbeprefent War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May 15 J (1
"sYjte TRIALS, y g
Sold by W. Young, Bookfeiler, Ne. s*, South Se- t>
cond-flreef, tl
The Pennsylvania State Trials, w
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acquit- „
al of FraneisHopkinfsn, Judge of the Court of „
Admiralty, and John fiicholfon, Comptroller Gen- (1
tral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, J| (<
dollars. I „
W. Young has for sale, a general afTortment of I
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack- t
ege, well aflorted, and entitled to the drawback if
axpwted. Jaly 7—* n
having been appointed by ti
JL the Envoy Extraordinary and Minifler Pleni
potentiary of Iris Hiitawniq Majcfty, General Agent
t«r affilling Bri:ifh creditors, and such particular a
gentsat they may fperially authorize, in profeeutiiig _
their claims before the c.mmiffionert for carrying iu- !
to effect the sixth article of th« Treaty of Amity, Com- r
merce n'd Navigation bdwttM Ins Britatnit Vajejly and
: the United States if America, hereby gives notice that
he hat opened hti office at his house the fotnli tall h
corner of Chefaut and fifth ftreett, PhiWelpbia, ri
I where he u ready to receive all.claims oricftiuitiotit t
i for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof, ,
i for the purpose of bringing forward the fame agree- .
ably so (be rules and orders whith the boaid may J
think proper to prescribe.
And at it will be for the intercft of all coaoemed,
that the fcveral claims be so dated, and support. J
I ed, at to prevent the delay which would arile from 1
the necessity of obtaining further information, or ad- j
ditional materials,from periods refining at aditUnce, \
the gei\pral agent thinhs it hit duty to add, (f»r the
, direction chiefly of those, \vbo, not having employ- ;
1 \ ed particular agents, may leave the profeeution of
their claims to his charge and management) that all
.such claims ought in particular to set forth—
! ift. The proper defcripcion and Gtnation of the
. : creditor or claimant, and original debtor, refpett
i i»«iy- . , „
«d. The date arlipature of the original contractor
i <3tbt. , ,
[ 3d. When, in wKat manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant w»s prevented or impeded,
by the provision, operation or deleft of law, the 1
decifionsand praikice of tourtt, or restraint of .exe
cution, from reoovering payment of the debt io
queflioiH .
4lh. The loft and damage incurred or fuftatned,
' inconfequer.&c of such impediments, whether the
1 fame may have arifeo from the infolveney, change of
situation, or death of thedebiot, the loft of legal
t remedy from lapse of time, or othercaufet impairing
J the value and feeurity of the debt, which would nat
- have so operated if fuoh impediment! had notexifled.
And ,sth. The particular grouads and reasons on
which the claimant maintain!, in the terms of the
treaty, that " by the ordinary courlc of judicial pro
-j ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and afiual'.y
a have and receive full and adequate eompenfation" for
l the lodes and damages so fuflaiued.
. The general agrnt think t U his daty further tofug
' lhat the fevciai claims ought to be accompanied
and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
fworn and regularly attefled, both as totherxtflence
y of the debts claimod, md such other circumftsncet
19 at may be within their ov>n knowledge refpefiively.
'f -tnd wherever the claimants in Qating the nature of
their evWence (which must in every mftaiic; be the
■e bed of which the cafe is capable) have occafton to
refer La the tediruony of witoeifct, it will be propel
to apprif.the general agent of the names aud places
• e of rcfidence of such witacfTetand the faftsto be ellfl
f- bli filed by their testimony. ,
1- Win. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June Bth. 17Q7. ' d
,b For Saie,
That tvtll known place, callod
" Fiity,
rvN NeHuminy creek, 18 miles from Phih
ie vJ* ladelphiaj'on the JS'e\» York port road,
(oiuaining 74 acres and 94 perche;. Upontlie
5 " premites are a large two flory ftane hrufe occu
pied as a tyern, and a good one ltorv flea? kit—
I chen, a large frame stable with agood tiirefhing
I', floor, and i'ome out bjildings—alfo a well of
good witcr, and an excellent ice House. On
)n this place-is a moll elrgant fituat:cn lora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefliam
-- ir.y to its jun£»ion with the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jersey shore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the 'Snb^nber,
mordecai lewis,
~ y, v 24. atawtf.
Ti "COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
:<•'» -it tKS. GIiOOMBKI'O.GE with much pleaf
tle lVi. urtand refpea, returns lwr sincere ac
k" knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
en the has received during four years relidrnce in
ft- Philadelphia ; and allures h?r friends and the
'■' ti public, so far from intending to decline her
'f c school, (he has made a fupcrtor arrangement for
the more convenient accoHimodctioit ol her
scholars. —Every branch ©f ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Iv<rt.
' m Groombridge and mailers excelling in theii
en refpeiSliveprofeiTions.
119 Corner of Spruce 3nd Eleventh Streets.
nl ' June 1797- Jimlrf
im The fituat.nn is healtby ; nr-dmaiie
e " more agreeable by an exfenfive garden and lot
ty of rrri-und adjoining the houle.
n" Jujl Publifhcd,
ay And to he had ef Meflrs. DoWor, Cimpbell.Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Pookfeliers in the
city.price cue dollar, twir.ty Sve cents,tn boards,
! d - New Views of the Origin or the
or Tribes and Nations of America,
Ey BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
JuitC 50. * 6t
No, 183.
£>ifir'icl cf Pennfylvtima, to wit :
L „ T)E IT REMEMBEUBDj that on tV,t
JL) fifteenth day qf June, in the twenty
firft year of the Independence of' the United
States of America, James Woodhovst, of
the fa id dillridl, hath depolite'd in this office the
title o+" a book, the right whereof he claims as
author, in the words following, to wit :
" The Yoii-ifs Chemitt's Pocket Companion,
" 'bcin;! aDefcription of a portable Labaratorv,
" containing a Philofoptiical apparatus, and a
" great number cf (jhemical Agents, by which
" any jftrfrijn may perform an endless variety of
" amufiiig and inflrudling Experiments,defign
" ed for the use of ladies and gentlemea, and
" intended to promote the cultivation of the
" Science of CKemiflry ih the United States of
" America. IJyjAMfs Wogdhousb, M. D.
" ProfcfTor of Cheiniftry, in the University of
" Pennsylvania, President of the Chemical So--
" ciety of Philadelphia, &c.
*' At prefdrtt every thing that is not denorrti
" nated Chemifiry, is but a ftnall part of a fyf-<
" ttm of natural knowledgi.
Priestly on /Sir "
In conformity to the ail of the Coogrefs of the
United States, intituled* " Anail forthe encour
agement of Learning,hy feourlngthe copies of
maps, charts, and books to the authors and pro
prietors df fiich copies, during the times there
in mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of the
piftrifl of Pennfy'.vatiia.
July 18. d.^t —wstf
No. 188.
Diflrift of Pennsylvania, to ivit :
(l s) n RRMIiMB£REr) ' that ° n the
* * '' J3 twenty fixtlf day <if July, in the twen
ty second year of the of the United
States ol America, John Fpnno, of the said diT
tri&. hath deposited in this office tlie title of a book,
the right whereof h< claims as proprietor, in the
word* following, to wit :
41 Observations oh certain documents contained
" in No. V- and VI. of M The History ps the XTnif:—
<c ed States for the year in which the charge
" of fprculation, againlt Alexander Hamilton,
11 Secretary of the Treafmry, is fully refuted—
" Written by himfelf "
In conformity to'he adl of the Congrcfs ©f tba
i Ucited States, eutituled,
agement of learning, ky fectrrir.g th« eopi«* «f
maps, enacts and books to the authors ants propri- ,v
♦ tors of filth copie*, during th« times therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of tie Diflriß of Pjurtfylvania.
July *7. waw
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT at Junetwm, 1797* * petition was
presented to the Court of Common
held at York Town', ii the State of Fennfylva
nia, at the instance ofi James Short, praying
the Court to fuppiy a loli deed ra.ie'e by a cer
tain Andrtw Hickenluber', to Hu -li Morrifon, «
James Morrifon, and Joh\ Sam- e, executors
to Hans Morrifon, deeeafcfl, Vc > fix hundred
acres of Land, fitvate in Menalicn
tanuulhip, in the county of York .-—All per.
sons who have any objections to viake to the o'o
jeA of the f»id petition ire defir.v to attend at
the Court House, in the town of York, 00 the
3th day of September next, otherwile the loit
I deed will be supplied.
JOHN EDIE, C!e.:c.
July 18. - eAt q
. . ■■■—'—•—-■«.—
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on Saturday (aft, two indented Ser
vants, Gifford Daily, a mulatto boy,abcmt 17
years of age, a Dim lifht built »tsuve follow, can
; read and write,five feet seven or eight i iches high,
has a heavy countenance; had on a uftian cnatfe
1 and troMrferi, a high crowned hat, fine f.iocs &c.
Allan Hellons, a black man, about 14 years of
> age, five feet seven or eight inches high, a thick set
: clumsy built fellow, particularly about the Breech;
' had"on a failor'sblue jacktt lined with fwanlkin,
' dark fcriped vest, fuftian ttowfers, high crowned
* hat, coarfa shoes, &c.; each of thsm had fevcral
1 fliirtt arid several other cloathes with them. Thir
" *y Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or 15 dcl
' lars for each, and rcafonable charges, oa deiivering
~ them at No. 54. North Third-street.
, The black fellow is a'oont a year from I.i-wis
r Town, in the County of x, state of Dela
ware, and has taken the boy with him.
July 31. mtu&f.^w
J To be SOLD or RENTED,
' A LARGER Stntv Brick Koufe, on the
i\ South fide of Filbert street. Between
,f Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
e veyor General's Office.
o The Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet deep,
■i the lot 110 feet deep, with the privilege of a nine
* feet wicje Alley extending the whole length of
J " the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
to turn in. The House is not flattered, and
may be turned either one, or two dwelling
Houses. It is fnjuble for a iaree> Manufactory,
or would make e good TjvAi-. Irmneiiiate
r poiiiUiou will lie g vii. \,
4 App'y to No. HI, Ciclßjt-Stneet.
Ang.a'i. ,4 cod^t.
I- _ r— -T—§ ■
'' Mujical Injh-mr-fat amfeclory,
A'o. 167, sir rji Struct.
( T.TARPF.R,hat-fifichotA,grand,porf.bly gra -d,
n fid'-board, pier table and i'qutfc ynno icre
maker from London, returns thanks t4 his iriirris
" and the public, fcr tlieu liberal c(iccurr.ge:r.«,t,
n and he pes that by hitaffidnity and fe cv
c" cry hranchof his iufnefs, :on"erit aco-ti
n " cf thur favor's. Pmno fcrus made on th> newest
ce and ihofl approved plans, with p'dali, patent,
swell, and French harp ftcp, which he fl;tt<is
himfuf will ue found on trit Ihy unpr jnclice,;!
judges, to be eo t ua! if not superior to auy jr. 1 : rt - -
ed, and twenty percent cheaper. Any rI ru
mint purchaied .1 him, if uot apjrovtdof in
twelve mouths, he will exchange.
N. B. Ail kinds of X>«ifical tnflrumcnts made.
S. uncd, and repauec. with the grcattfi (pcruiaeyj
if- difpat-h, and op the moii reafonr.ble term , ivr
,c- ready monty only.
Nt Second hand Piano Forte* trkeo in eschange.
; B May »f. &*r.i.
'' ~ l
er Forty Dollars Reward.
o r ~fy AN away from the fubferibet on the fee
er J[x_ onddivof this intt. Jtily, a Mulatto Mah,
lte named Will iiewz-r, about forty years of age,
r f' five feet fevtu or eight inches high, rither
:lr chuuky,masle ; had on when he. went auav, a
di;ab colored cloth coat, llripcd purple tiowftrs
and jacket. It is probable be will change his
clo;thes. 5.s he took a, number with him. The ,
de faii.l -fellow fonn. rly belong'd t--> .' Jr. Charles
' ot Blikeof tl.4s place: and it is t.vpe csl.ee' ht has
made towards Jon«s's Neck, in-the V\ la ware
State. — Any perfrn apprthenc.i>'g tf»e,fei j , i
low, and feenring liiai t" 1 hat 1 can get him
pain, fiiail receive the ..bove rewar.' if tSkcn
, u put of the county, Sftid "J'wenry Doll j-s if jt
us ' the cour.'y, and all reasonable chargei if bp t
home,
JESSE RE"D,
Qviscn Ann's Couiity, Maiyi.md.
July 3. wjt