I , '
(@ajette»/ ® JUttß 6- Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NUMBB* 1390.] , TUESDAT EVENING, FEBRUA RT 21, 1797. XI.
' • /~"i _ll_ _ TT.ll
For Sligo and Killibegs,
The. American Ship Nancy,
ji Cuthbert Riggs, matter.
Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or paflage apply to £
William Bell;
Who bas for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cotton?, well afTorted ,
j Bales Irilh Flannels, and 2 boxes Linens
is Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine j lixllgo. Rnifia Matt*.
■JSjZ. Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November ii, 1796, rtf
For Freight, for Newbury-port, Ports
mouth or Boston,
THE SCHOONER
Industry,-
Francis Salter, Majler,
IS now ready to take in freight, at Arch-street wharf.
Apply to the matter on board,
FOR SALE,
*A few barrels Excellent CYDER.
February 18 || iw
For Freight or Charter,
O HE is a good veftel, fails fact, carries
L O about 500 barrels, and will take in
Freight to proceed Coastwise, or for the Weft Indies
For terms apply to Emanuel award, imfler, on
board, at Arch-street wharf, or to
ISAAC HARVEY, Jur.,
% No. $ South Water-street.
Tfhp^y« 1 ■ s>w
FOR SALE, ON BOARD SAID VESSEL,
A few coils Cordage,
CANDLES, and
SHOES. ,
For Amsterdam,
, The fact-failing cedar and live oak
(hip Amiable,
M[ D." C. Tilt'tnghafl, Majler,
JUST graved and in compleat order, and is now ta
king in, arid intunded to fail it) all this month, a great
part of her cargo being ready to goon board, has good
accommodations for paflengers. For freight or pafTage
apply to the matter, on board, at Bright's wharf,
or to
JEREMIAH WARDER,
No. 12 South Third street.
February 15 tnw£s"f?w
, For Hamburgh,
*Jt>hn Thompson, Majler,
JUST coppcred, and in complete order, .and is now loading, <
A o-tiiuloahlf pari of,.her cargo 'scngtgrd, has goo 1 accom
modations for paflengers, and intended to 'ail in the course
of this monih.—for freight or paflTage, apply to the Matter
on fcjarci, at Bright'., wharf, or to
JEREMIAH WARDER;
Noi 12 north Third street.
February i? mw&faw
For CHARTER,
the Danish brio
Friendship,
l»orent% Mat%en> FA after ,
A ftroiig, .new vessel, with a Mediterranean Pass, bur
then abeut 240 tons. For terms apply to
February 19 —§ PHILIPS, CII.vMOND & Co.
A of Brandy,
* FIRS T & id proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pip-s
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof,' in Hhds
Old Hfr 'k, in cases of 40 dozen each *
Glass Tumblers, in pir.ts and half-pints
Window Olafs, in boxes, of different lizes
Hazlenuts, in fiicks
Whiting
> inKhd.
Whi'e t*ad C
k SpaniiTi Brown J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 y
Grand Concert.
On SATURDAY F.Vf.NING, the 2stb Injlant,
At OELLERVROOM.
STGNOR TRISOBIO, from Italy, profejjor oj vocal music,
proposes to give a confert of vocal and mufc in
, ibe ntojl complete manner, ivbicb ■ivill manifejl his refpeSl to a pub
lic* ivhofe pruleflitn be entreats for thtfirfi time. He is happy in
having engage i tivo ladies, his Jcholars, namely, Mrs. Hendray &
Matilie. Roufjelin, ivho ivill fmg several feleSl pieces ; and Mr.
s&e*hendorf ivbo -will flng w« Italian dir. 'There ivill be executed
a duct, ana a catch by three voices. The leader »f the band j\flr.
■Collet, ivrt'l perfcrrn a concerto on the violin, and tnr* Guenrn tine»
•ther on the piano fo>te. Amongst fever al serious and comic songs
•which Signor Trifobio ivill jtng, be promifts to perform at.io a-
Jone ; that is to fay, an imitation of three Italian Nuns ; and as
ler-xards the Javourlte comic song oft he Cats. Almojl all the songs
tvhich ivill be fungy ivill be printed ivith the mujic, and expojed
for the convenience of rvboever ivijb-.s to purchase them T clxts
One Dcllpr A to be had at oeller*s Hotel; at mr. Bradford's book*
Jiore, No. 8, Smith Front-freet ; at mr. IVillig s muftcal maga
zine, No 185, in 1, ket-flreet ; at mr. Chalks circulating t library.
Third (ireet, b etui celt Arcb and Racefireets ; an iat mr. Trifobio,
No. 66, North Front-jlreet.-
The Concert ivill commence at 6 o'clock.
February 18. * 7/
A PARCEL OF VERY FINE
St. Croix Sugars and Rum,
JAMAICA SPIRITS, and
LAGUIRA HIDfcS,
For Sale by
Feb. 7. —$»w JAMES YARD.
Pennsylvania Population Company.
NOT'CE is hereby given, to such Share-,holders as
as havtj not paid their aflefiments on theirfhares—to
p-y the fame immediately to tho Secretary of the Compa
ny, at the Company's Office, No. 53 north Fourth-flfeet,
Philadelphia. I'hey are further informed, that in default
of paying the fame within thirty days from the 4th of Fe
bruary, instant, the fovc-ral forfeitures will be strictly ei
*<2«d, in conformity tbtiie 21 ft article of association.
By order of the Seard,
9«L. MARACKE, Secretary
Feb.»i 4 §3O
Lilbon Wine.
50 I*ipe» of Lift>on Wine, landing at MelTrs. Sum
mei l & Brown's wharf, between Arch and Race streets,
from ftiip Neptune, Capt. Jeffries, from Lilbon. in
Pipes, Mogtheads and Quardfe Calks, for sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
January 18. s7 l
*
. For Sale,
A Quantity of Excellent
Turks-Island Salt,
Aud a fe\v iiogflieads
3d and 4th proof Rum.
Enquire of
Jehu Hollingswortb C9 3 Co.
February 17 6
General Orders,
Philadelphia, February 17th, 1797*
THE 'officers of the militia the city and county of Phi
ladelphia, are requeftid toaflembleat the State-House
on Wednesday next, the 22d in&arit, at 10 o'clock, A. M.
to proceed from thence with th; State Society of Cincinnati,
to pay their to the Prefiderif of the United States on
the anniversary of hi* birth.
By order of the Commander in Chief,
JOS. HARMAR, Adj. Gen.
LOST,
BETWEEN the fubferibers' house and the Bank of
thelJnited States, John Guest &Co's NO TE,
1 dated 17th June, payable to Thomas and John Clif-r
ford, or order, 60 days after date, and endorsed by them
for 640 Dollars. Whoever has found the fame, and
will bring it to the fublcribers, will be thankfully re
warded, Payment being Hopped at the Banks, it caa
be of no use to any person.
JOHN GUEST & Co.
No. 20, South Second-street.
All persons are forwarned against purcbafing the
■ said Note. FebiuarylS. . $
r For Sale,
8000 dozen BRISTOL BOITLES
Bar IRON
P ICE
TAR
CLARET, in hogsheads and cases
SWEET OiL in cases
February 17 > Apply to F. C.OPPINGER,
{ N«. 321 Souch Front street.
To be fold,
(For MORRIS'S M'-TES)
100,000 acres of Land,
LYING i« Randolph county, in Virginia. Enquire of the
Printer. February t8 S3t
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, ts'c, &c.
This day landing from the lhip Eagle, captain
from London,
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT h MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Stcond-flreete,
A mcjl capital and txierifive AJfo' tmeut sf
GARDEN, GRASS arxl FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c. &c.
Among v/hich ar<r, >
Five kinds A fpar*ig us jThrer ki&ds Cresses
Four Berecolt Twelve Onion
Twenty-five B as , Thirteen Radish
Six Beets'l Fifteen Turnip
Eleven Brocolit|Fifte«H Peas
Twenty-fix pabbagej Six Savoy
Carrwt Hour Parfnir
Fhree Cauliflower Twenty-three Melon
Five Celery Twenty-one Lettuce
I'en Cucumber!
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled ls?f and sprigged Parsley
Pbt Marygold # Pot Mir jorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek Kail Shailots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerne
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. Bcc..
With a curious colleelion of the mod esteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOFS,
Being the most extensive ever imported into this city.
1 he above are from a capital Seedsman in Londen, and
are warranted frefli and good.'
Printed catalogues auy be had by applying as above.
Pec* 17 5
Mas. G RATTA N
Refpeflfully informs her friends, and the public in
general, that on Tuesday the icth day of Jannarv,
she proposes opening, at No. 39, North Sixth
fti- et,
A Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
Book Muslins, frors 6/3 to 12/ti per yard
Jaconet ditto, from g/i to yj% per yard
Striped ditto, from 7/ro to 10/rO per yard
Fine Coffaes
Tambour'd Book Muffins, from 13/9 to 21/ per yard '
India Muslin, from 11/3 to 15/ per yard '
Sheeting Muffin
Jaconet muftn Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 to 6/per hdkf. 1
Book muslin Handkerchiefs from 5/3 to io/6 per hdkf.
Muffin color'd and border'd Handkerchiels 1
Dacca Handkerchiefs
Tambour'd Cravats from iq/TS to 11/n
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/3 to 16/3 per yard
Table Cloths
H uckabuck T owell ing
Women's Cotton Hose, from 4% to 13/pei pair
Dimity from 5/10 to 6/11
Nlen's Silk Hose
1 ambour'd muslin Handkerchiefs from \ifii tots\fi I
irish linenv-for Gentlemen's Shirts, from to <
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Order, received sos all kinds of ready mads '
I.inen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Cravats, 1
Pocket Handkerchiefs, Sic. &c. 1
Houfhold Linen, &c. &c. '
A plain fliirt, made and mark'd, 3 1-2 dollars,
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars. #
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 6 dollars.
A plain shirt, andmjrked, 5 1-2 dollars.
A fw'l ruffled ditto 7 dollars. ;
A plain (hirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 1-2.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 1-2 dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditto g dollars..
Linen included.
January jj. 5
7 ' »
Mr. Pickering's Letter.
This Day Published,
AND FOR SALE BY THE EDITOR,
Price three eights of a Dollar.
THE Letter of the Secretary of State, to Mr. Pinck
ney, Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States, to
the french Republic. Kebrpary y.
! > the Benevolent.
ft'. . having rented t! 1 weii known t jv
ernhtHife, oti Silv.-r Springs, Cumberland county,
on the great road leading from Philadelphia to Fort Pitt,
which he had completely furnifhed for the accommodation
Of travellers, but which unfortunately, by accident caught
fire about 12 o'clock in the morning, the 3d of Novem
ber la!t, and in the space of neliour was totally contum
ed with all the furniture, wearing apparel, flores of li
quors, &c. to a very large amount, attended with the me
lancholy loss of a daughter about twelve years of age,
who only survived afew hours after the fire ; his wife al
so difa'oled; and others of his family much hurt ; he is
now reduced to an unhappy and deflitute fitua ion—he
therefore begs leave to falicit fame relief from a generous
i public. The following gentlemen are pleased to undertake
the trouble to solicit and vective subscriptions for his be
nefit : viz. Samue| Richardet, Merchants',Coffee-Houle ;
James Tl'iompfon, Indian Queen; George Irwin, Crols
| Keys, in Fourth-flreet, and John Dunwoody, ipread Ea
gl«, High-street. DAVID BWGGS.
Philadelphia, February 14 tthScftM3
+ 4-t The other Printers are requeffed to publish the above.
c? notice"
Sales of LANDS of the United States, in the
X North-Weftein Territory, heretofore advertised
r in the several public papers, will comraencc this ever,-
> ing, City Tavern to be continued from day
r to day, till the tenth of MARCH next, if not sooner
■ fold.
' January 4 . (
j Bourdeaux Brandy, in Pipes,
OLD Claret, in casks
Ditto in cases, ot aa excellent quality
Lilbon Wine in pipes
Fourth "iproof Holland Gin
New-England Rum in hoglhcadsaad tierces
Raisins in kc^s
Best Bodor. Beef and Pork
Halifax Salmon in baiidis
Kuflia Sail Duck
Ravens Duck
A few Feather Beds
One IM-2 inch.Cable ) r , , ,
One 9 d; do. J' ao fathoms long each
Jjpeimacjeii Candles
Mouid and dipt 1 allow ditto
A. few barrels Tanner* Oil, a:id
A f/nall invoice of India Goods,
For Sale iby
JOSEPH ANTHONY & C»
ALSO,
Just received from Marfciliej, a toiall invoice of Silks, Silk
- Stockings, an of Perfumery, and a few cases ol
the be# Olive Oil..
February 15
1 " iKTNTS si PLACE.
A Woman who can be well reco mm ceded for honesty, so-
I~*- brictyj and good temper. She wilhes to engage as cham
bermaid, or femptireU for ipw wages oit cuncxition flie may
retain a caild with her L .quire at No. 58 South
Frpjjt ft 1 cct. February 16 d
For Sale,
A r K AC 1 OF land,
3zq acres, in Harford county, 5 miles dif
, V taut si (Mw x lielie-Air, 2J from Baltiiiiore : the im
provements, arc, a two-flory brick dwellinaj-hou-e, finifh
ed in a gep.teel manner, with stone kitchen and cellar ;
, a-isarn, and other convenieric out buildings; a GiUS T
! Mlf.L, lately built, in a good flarid fer country or mer
t chant work ; apple-orchard and other fruit-trees ; 30 a
, cres o; prime timothy meadow ; and nearly ag much more
. may be made from th« conveuielic y watering; 80 acres
of woodland, well timbered. The fields are welLlaid off,
an under good fence : the lituation is very plealant and
1 healthy. Ihe whole «f this property may be had for
25&0 I. Iwo thirds in hand, and the remainder in easy
payments, 22501. would be taken, all cJh. Pofleflion
might be had in 60 days after contraA, and an indifputa
b.le title given by ROBERT BRYARLV.
February 20 1
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE anl PRICE,
No. 79, Market STREET, PniLADSLBHtJI,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from |
London, 2 large afiortment tf W ARRANT E D
IVA'/ CHES, eanfiihtig of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel d Gold Watches, with ieconds, of luperior
workmanflup and elegance ; also capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jeweU'd, cappM,
seconds, day of the month, and plain Silver Watches ;
eight day & chamber Clocks; elegant French Clocks
with marble frames ; eight day and thirty hour, brass
1 works, &c.
► Decembet 22, 1796. d2m
£PHR A 1 M CLARK,
CLOCK WATC.II MAKE R,
HATH just receivnd by the Fame, from London,
and Alexander Hamilton, from Liverpool, a
large i'upply of
Gold, Gilt, and Silver Watches ; '
Capt and Jewel'd, capt and seconds ditto ; spring CI/klm,
clock nibvements, eight day and 30 hour brass, forged
work, and flit pillions; clock and watch fprivgs ; clock
bells and chime ditto ; gold, gilt and silver pendants : as
well as other tools, files and materials, too tedious to
mention.
Ladies' Steel Gilt Chains,
' With or without hoaks; seals, keys a"d trinkets.
Febru ' r V '7 tihjcfif
Sales of Depreciation Land.
TO THE PUBLIC.
WHEREAS a number of trails of land commonly called
Depreciation land, formerly in Weftuioreland, now.in Alle
gany county, were fold at Greeniburg, in'tlie month of au
gust lafr, by t he commiflioneis ol Weflinoreland, for taxes
pretended to be due for Allegany county, j 3 the vear 1789 :
ftND whereas the said taxes were not legally assessed, mr
the said commifTioners authoiined to aft, nor due notice of
the intended sale given,the coijimtffioiujrs for a pre ended tlx
not exceeding in the whole sat dollars having'fold si q/s
acres of valuable land. 6 sil 343
The proprietors take this method of cautioning all persons
against making payments to the laid commiifioners for any
purch.ifes made ot them, or ol any part of the
said lands from any other person, as they mean to defend their
property lo illegally fold, as well against the commiflio.ieu
atorefaid, as all otkei perlons pretundini. to hold under
them.
for the information of their fellow-citizens they pro
pose shortly to give a statement of the combination formed
for the purchase of this property, and the names of the
persons cotyxrned therein.
Februaryr6. . .
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Mernl, Critical, and Entertaining.
\ THIS. E KF-NING,
i February 21,
' " O, At 7 o'clock,
J m Will be recited,
The G E A 4 U S 4 A MERIC A,
AN ODE,
' Infciibed to his Excellency Ctonei Washikcton.
ll' AFTER WHICH,
t Seleilienj from the molt interefijng fcejtes in tha
Tragedy of
Venice Preferv'd.
Tickets tqbe hid of Mr. Poulfcn, jua. at the Library ;
' at mr -M'Elwee's laoking-glafs-ftore, No. 70, S. Fourthr
street ; and at Mr. Carey's, Bookfeil- I ', MarkcL-flr-et — .
Half a dollar each.
g ry
l • WANTED,
• Peniifylvania bank Shares,
For which Qajh, or Mppra-ved Kites at 60 days, wiil
be given, at the option of the Seller.
February 20 —§ Apply at this office.
e Notice.
'T'HE ELEPHANT will leave town pafitively ear?
X !y in March.
>' Admittance —one quarter of a dollar.
r Children^—half pripe.
N. B. Ar. ELEPHANT TOOTH weighing 54
. pounds te be fold. Enquife at the place where the £ Its
phant is kept.
• Feb. 20. a
Mahogany and Logwood.
I A Cargo for Sale on board of ihe fliip Sally, captais
GelCou, just arrived from Honduras.
Apply to • ■
PHILIPS,, CRAMOXD & Co.
February 9 §
JUST ARRIVED,
By the Danilh fliip Fricpdfhip, captain froßi
Oporto,
Red Port Wine,
In Pipes, Hoglheads a»J Quarter-Caflcs,
Boxes ot Lemons,
jFor Sale by
Philips, Cramond & Co.
k February 9 §
... . -y
Sales at the Hone-Market.
On It'ednefday, the lid ii./t. at II o'clock, >
Will be feld,
0 A pair of Grey Horses and an Elegan}
1 Coacbee, • >
With plated Harneft, complete. The Horses are in their
prime,—in good ordqr, and go equally well in
chair and '.addle : the Coachee i 6 partly new, and in per*
fed repair EDWARD POLE, au^ioneer.
f- N. B. The. Coachee and Horses will be shewn on applij
1- cation at the oifice e| the Philadelphia Gazette, No. 23
t- Chefnut street. February 20 tf
__— . .j I, , 1 .
On Saturday,
The 25th instant, at 7 o'clock in the evening,
. s Will be Sold by A union, at the Coffee- House t
Y Three adjoining LOTS of GROUND, in the township
J ol Mo> amenfing, a little to the fouthvyard South-ilreet,
, r and adjoining a3O feet wide lane, called the Ikish Tr act
y Lane, and also adjoining lands of Samuel Powell, de«
n ceased.
L _ No. 1. Containing 4 acres and 83 perches
No- 2. Containing 4 acre* and 83 perches
No. 3. Containing 4 acres and 56 perches
Plans of the Lots are at the Coffee-Houfe.
Feb. 17 EDWARD FOX, AuftV.
The Advertiser,
(A Steady middle aged MarrieJ Man)
rj "\TTHO has been regularly bred to, and is well ac
j VV quainted with buiinefs, wilhe» to engage as a clerk,
iH a compting house, or assistant is a public office, or in
'l that of an attorney or counsellor at law He writes a
p neat plain hand, corrc&ly -nd expeditioully ; and flatters
'» himfelf he can produce recommendations refpedabili- *
• ty.—A line addrelfed to W. C. at No.ss,North Second
Street, or at the Printers of this paper, will be duly at
s tended to.
N. B. The advertiser will chearfully accept any tempo
rary employment as above. February xB. 3t
A,convenient stable
Situated in Laurel Court—% Stalls thersin to be rent
ed, with the privilege of using the Hay-Loft.
a Eight years of the time of service of tNEGSO MAN
for sale. He is accuflomed to house work, and capable of
taking care of Horses. Enquire of the Primer,
s, February 11 f fthtf
k 50 boxes Spermaceti Candles,
s A few dozen ot English Porter in small casks,
o 1 bale of Cloak Cambists, Hair-bines, Crapes, Poplins,
Sattinet, Lalting, &e. &c.
A few small packages of Calcutta and Madrafs Goods,
consisting of Pungim Cloths, Gurrahs, Hmnhums,
Guzenahs, Tickfrys, Baftas, Coflaes, Barhar, Ban
danna and Pullicat Handkerchiefs, Choppa Romals,
Putna Chintz and Taffaties;
1 bap of black Pepper, and 1 box of white Sugar ;
, For sale, by
JOSHUA GILPIN,
No. 149, South Front-flreet.
s February 10. ' »t
r Le Breton,
,f _ SIJRG EON-DENTIST,
' Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King and Royal Family of France, ujember of the
ls College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
y Keeps a complete afTortment of every thing neceflary
e to be used for*he
f Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth,
, r Patent Minoral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Tge);}>;
Dentrifice in powder ; Opiate ; excellent ElixW for
sweetening the mouth and preserving the teeth —ht
d also furnifhes Brushes and foft Sponges.
Ie *** He lives in Chefnut-Areet, No. J35, abev.e
Fourth-flreet.
November t6* ,tts»3
THE ART OF SPEAKING,
A Grand Tragi-Comical, Drama-Farcical Episode,
—"v In One Afl:
Taken down in Short Hand.
Scene
th« i o v s s v tt ,
For free debate.
Enter Phelim 0' Flagherty, John Bull, Men/. Petit,
Brother Jonathan, Mein Heer Vanfpunk, Timid, Saw
ney, Chi/el, Simple, Buckram, Soalleather, Currycomb,
Slaughter, Hammer, isfc. &c. <witb red nefes ; all
<wish j cuiter mugs before them.
Mr. MAG*PYE, PreJidcnt.
PreJidcnt. Order, order; will gentlemen come to
order? You must know, gentlemen, it is an indispen
sable duty incumbent on us to he ready cut and dried
for the grand hargumentatio» that is to ensue. Are
your mugs all well primed ?
/111. Aye, foaming to the brims. '
Pre. Bravo, bravo! we shall all have flippant
tonguas in thi6 important debate. Will we now pro
ceed to the order of the evening ? Shall the rules be
read ?
/111. Aye, aye, aye, aye, yes, yes, yes, no, no, by
J—»•
Pre. The ayes I believe have it. Those in the affir
mative will please to hold up their hands.
The ayes have it. [W/] All gentlemen who fre
quent this iiluftrious -,7/J-Embly are considered mem
bers for the evenin. He who f'peaks firft may speak
last ; but nobody else. You are to hobferve, gentle
men, that you are to take great keer not*) diflurbthe
harmony, decorum, an i regnlatianth-. of this meetin
—no hallowing, pounding, kickii g, hissing, clapping,
feratching, elbowing, &c. will be tolerated. I will
now proceed to read the question. On motios by
Phelim O'Flagherty last Wednefdav will be debated to
night, viz. " Is the joys to be endured in the old ba
rhelorOip ft ate greater r.or under pettycoat govern
ment ?" his
PHELIM f O'FLAGHERTY.
mark.
Mr. O'Flagherty, as the proposer, will please to o
pen the debate.
o'i7. I will rife as yor honor bids me, and I shall
beg lave fcr to b£ fpakin to the banacfits exulting from
fitch meetins as these here.
Pre. You mean resulting, Mr. O'Flagherty, dont
you ?
O'Fl. Aye, all's one for that—now—as do you fee—
for argument fake, —and, as 1 was goin to lay Xhis e
venin, to fpeerh'fy is the mnlt applaudable thing in
the universe : because, do you fee, perhaps, as I would
be after telling you, this here hauguftbody will, may
hap, come te> lettle in time the great confirms of the
nation—now—as 1 have told you, or to be after asto
nishing you with my hellequence ;by J —s that was a
bold puih for an orator (s'ftde) —or if
Many voices. He dont speak to the point; kick him
down, kick him dowft, turn him out, turn him out —
t— t
Pre. Silence, silence, order, order, gentlemen, oh,
gentlemen.
O'Fl. By my fhoul but I will spake ; I'll spake in
spite o' the prattieft of you. Arrah be quiet there ho
llies.
The deel burn O'Flagherty but lie will spake, and
you that are so noisy in that there coiner, will yon
plafe to be afy while 1 beg leave to spake in ptaife of
pettycoat government.
Soalleather. Pull him down ; he dont speak a word
of sense.
o'Fl. Arrah, dear Soalleather, the dibbil pitchfork
me, an you ant the greateit liar that ever stitched a
shoe.
All. Pull him down—down —kick him—hullo—
whew'—[iuhijllinft] wring hi* nofe—nofe—nifs —s
* —clap, clap, clap, £clapping of hands.3
Pre. For God's fake, gentlemen, do, pray, do try
to be a little more quiet.
O'Fl. Arrah d ear honies, as long as I've a pair of
knuckles, da yon fee, I'll be letting you know that
Phelim O'Flaghterty arnt afraid of the prattieft of
you. By my fhoul, was there ever such impudence
under the fun ? A set of raggamufhns, with leathtr a
prons and dirty faces, to be taling a gentleman in his
fpach, is a burning flume, do ye fee ? \_ail quiet] but
as you faim to be boddering me no more, I'll beg lave
to be for going on with my cart. The government of
pettycoats, Mr Prelident, as I was a going to fay, flo
ye fee, is—l spake; trom exparience—is—furely more
honorable nor t!r. old bacheiorlhip state. Arrah I shall
lie bold enough in telling you, by the bye, that the old
bachelor is i poor, lousy fort of being. Now —as —
that is—take notice, that my wife and I have been the
very happiett couple in all the kingdom of Pennlylva
nia, do you hear, honies? —We have lived now this
seven years upon paraturs and Indian uutnplins, and
by my fhoul the tender jade never bate me the deel a
once except twice a week, or so with the l.raomftick
riow and then, —do you fee, —and —sor —becaufe —as I
would acquaint you, she once give me a black eye with
the tongs ; but both of buy were soon as fwatt again
as sugar candy, do you fee ? and by my conscience she
was the fmeft body in all the wo*ld to darn flockings,
and fo,-do you fee. And —as if—but Mr. Spakerthis
whisky has made a woeful eompreflion about my bow
els, and has given me a small fit of the cholic, do yeu
fee ? and so I move you, that the furder conliderauoa
of this queflion be pofiponed for immediate discussion
by the other gentlemen now present, do yeu fee ?
John Bull. As lor my wife, fir, by the lord Harry,
file was the kyindeft crichur I ever knyew ; she was 1
fifty thoos and ponder ; and then her eyes were so
languilhing
Mons. Petit. [lnterrupts him] \Jomebody treads
on his tce~\ Oh— —ah fa christie oh my toe,—
nondondievi t-efe is dc tird time dat I has like
to be kilt vid dis tern rabble. ( A great uproar. J
Brother Jonathan Mr. Cheerman, it m.ikes me
feel plaguy fhamcd, I veow you now, to fate fitch a
ilucid figbt of foalks. Hswfundcbber, it is fartin thac
1 line to speak a good word in favor of the gals. I'fe
been married to my Dorothy this three years, and, tar
nafhun seize me, ct" there's fich another in the land of
the living. Why, J A-eow you, she milks twenty ceows
every d v i she fciubs the liandieft you ever seen, and
at for mak : r.g molafles cake, dick ins.take me ef she'd
.tiirn her back to any wcrr.an in the varli' world. And
always when I comes home from the punkiu patch she
coitus to me so loving and (fomebouy pinks him J
sticks a pin in me—(a tnofi uncon/cionable laugh Ji
iences Jonathan■)
Mcmheer Vimlpwik. I dings, Mr Speaker, das te
ihentlcman mit te tow trowfers d'at fhprakt latt was a
most remn ition fooh : mine Cot, ouf he hat mein fife
she would soon fpetlte teivel mit him I
(Mr. Timid gets up viith a piece of ppper in his
hard, containing the. herds of his difcourje.)
•Timid I conceive, Mr. Prelident -i ll that—
eh 1 fay eh (looks down in his hat J give me
leave to remark—-that eh eh - ■ that my col-
league—hem—is eonclufive ~eV -sr. his argument —eh .
he has told you eh (looks do/.- ?'•? his hit J
that he was eh the happiest-- eh-- or all
men. By eh eflablifhing this ?h -old
barhelorfhip doflrine —eh—it would be eh- —
( vis month becomes terribly parched and be spits)
dangerous to .the state and eh 1 \you»cl beg
leave eh to tell you, Mr. President, eh that —
f his throdt seems choaked up, be haiuks and then/pits)
that I fay—eh flooks dawn in his hat again)
that eh 1 fay, Sir (fits down confn/ed.)
Pre. Oh Mr. Timid, dont be disheartened; try
again —pray finife vour harangue, Mr. Timid.
Tim. I fay, Mr. Prefident —eh—'it is a matter, fir,
eh—[cough: andfpits] —that is *o fa) —eh—I have
nothing more to fay. {_He fits down and Sawny gets
up.']
Sawny. An ye wad ha' a sample o' gen
tlemen, I wul gee it to ye. In guide troth, I ha' a
mickle deel t® fay on this fubjait, and ken ve, rann,
vvlia was the prtttieft lassie in a' the world ! ye dinna
ken, I fnppofe. ( Afcraping of feet and a loud talking.)
Gad zooks, an ye wanna ha'patience to hear, ye may
talk yourfel', and the muckle deel tak ye a'. I wad
tell ye, maimer President, 'ti, a g r eet difgrafs to ye,
mon, to let them kick up fie a dull; (loud burfis of |
laughter) what the deel are you about, mon, wi' your ,
long face ; ye kinna kape pace, eh ? (a very loud
cough) then ihe deel tak me an ye flianna ha' nae mare
o* my eloquence. (Sits down.)
Chi/el. I likes, Mr. President, the notion of im-;
proving in oratory. I ant prepared lo speak ; but I ,
think in time the rity ®f Philadelphia will hold a can- I
dleflick to the \rorld —(a dreadfulfit of fneezrngfeizes ;
the honorable member, which prevents him from fro
ceeding, and unfortunately honing no ha '■ dkerchief he
is obliged to wipe his nose on his coat tail; Mr. Simple,
taking the advantage :f his difcomfiture, rises.)
Sim As I ant ready, Mr. President, to debate this
here question, and a great many of my friends present
here ant ready nuther, if I ant out of order I'll make
a motion to adjourn this here question till some other
tipiej but as to the gentleman's candleftiok I would
observe—
Pre. [lnterrupting him] Sir, you are out of order,
f Mr. Simple fits do wn. J
Mr. Buckram. I mult confefs, Mr. President, I
had no intentions of offering my sentiments on this
fubjefl, and to face this refpeiitable audience where all
eyes are agapfc upon one, puts me all over in a sweat ;
but, as circumstances prove to me the fallacy of the
arguments of the gentleman in the red night cap over
the way, J shall beg leave to differ from him in opinion.
I mult lay, fir, that I am kicked aud called a ioufy
rascal by my wife every hour in the day. Would you
believe it, Mr. President ? don't you think she had
the audacity to call me only half t. man ! !
Pre. As to matter o'that, Mr, Buckram, she may
have some reason.
Buck. I beg rardon, fir, but, Mr. President, I call
you to order, —I fay I call you to order, fir, and you
i needn't to gape your eyes f® wide open at me. I was
! going to tell you, fir, at me, and swears
it takes inne taylors to make one man ! —Zounds
—sounds—zounds—give me my yard flick, give me
my yard flicks till I belabour her till she's tilick and
blue.
Pre. Oh, fie, fie, Mr. Buckram, do you know
where you are. Your wife is not near you.
Buck. I beg the company'! pardon, and from these
observations I would infer, that old bacheiorftiip it the
happiest slate.
T A great noise of biffing, clapping hands, pounding
%n thefioor, : S'c in the mean time Messrs. SoaMeather
and Soap-boiler both rife together; feme cry SoaMeather,
some Soap-boiler.]
Pre. Mr. Soal leather.
[W- leather rises upon thettyaf a bench, and speak s
with his hat on.]
Soal-I. Mr. Chairman—if—[a great blowing of
noses and coughing drowns his voice, but he continues
speaking.]
Pre. Silence, ord«r, gentlemen—aa honorable mem
ber is up.
Soat-I. I fay, if we consider the question in its widest
extent, it will appear the molt important question ever
agitated even before Congress themfel'vts. I beg leave
to differ entirely from the gentleman in the leather
apron on my left. He has told you —[a great cough
and blowing of noses again.] I intend to prove to you,
fir, [ohe of the benches breaking down causes a great
laughter] to prove to-you that the " yard-stick" of
my honorable colleague—[a loud roar of laughter]
my colleague whp was l'o much hen-pecked— [a great
horse laugh which continues five minutfs ; Soal-leather
gnashes bis teeth, fits down m a great paflton, and Ham
mer rises
Pre. A member up.
Hum. As t© this here motion, iVIr. President, lam
apt to thi-ak, it is a matter great confarn to the Uni
ted States in point of population, and a- to what the
gentleman in the red wig has said
Slaughter. [lnterrupting him] —I move you, Mr.
Frefident, that the gentleman now up be orderrd to
conib his head, to w.ify his face, and to pull off his
apron, before he is allowed to fptak before this illustri
ous aflembly.
Mr. Curr-comh. Second that motion.
Ham. Mr. President, my face is as clean, and I'll
appeal to ycur honor if I dont look as decent as any of
you. Zounds, to be plain with you, 1 never saw fnch
a group of ragged coats, greasy "night-caps, aud dirty
faces, in my life.
Slau. You're a liar and a fool.
[ Hammer darts at him and clenches him : a terrible
battle ensues, a dreadful uproar in the hall, andjeveral
gentlemen are trod under foot.]
Pre. Silence, fileuce, order, order, for God's fake,
order gentieaen : this is not the way to be made ora
tors on.
slau. Fair play, fair play, letup.
Ml. Form i ring, for*i a ring.
[The uproar encreafes, and the ladies scream : mug',
wigs, hats, members, iSjc. CSV. are tumbled together
in a heap.]
Ham. I dare you into the street.
Slau. Come on, I'm your nhan.
Pre. [His heart beating violently.] On motion by
mvfelf, 1 adjovrns this Society to meet again at the fi"-n
of the Cabbage-stalk, on Thurlday next, at seven
o clac* I'. M. Exeunt Omnes.
THE WARNING No. 111.
THE Paris accounts inform us, that France has
lately exeicifed towards Genoa an a& of atrocious
opprefTtoit, which is ari additional and a finking in
dication of the domineering and predatory spirit by
which (he is governed. This little republic, whose
tertitory icarcvly extends beyond the walls of her
metropolis, has been compelled, it seems, to ransom
herfe'f from the talons of France by a contributi
on of nearly a million of dollars ; a large fun, for
her caritia&ed resources. For this boon, " the
French government engages on its part to renounce
all claims upon Genoa, to forget what has palled du
ring the prefeut war, and to forbear any future de
mands. ' It would appear from this, that Fiance
I to colottr the odious exaction, belidcs ihe pretence
I of mifcondufl towards her in 'V.e prefenf has
not difibined :o resort to the dale and pitiful cevice
of reviving some antiquated claim upon tiie country
itfelf. In vain, did the signal hazards encountered
by Genoa to preserve her neutrality, in defiance of
the host of enemjes originally leagued against France
—in vain did the chara&er and title of repubK;
plead for a mote generous treatment : the attrafti
onsof plunder predominated. The spirit of lapine,
callous to the touch of juftiee, blind to the evidence
of truth, deaf to the voice of entreaty, mark
ed out and de'-oted the vi&im. There -was no al
ternative but-to compound «r perish.
If it be even fuppofcj, though this has neverap
peared, that at some period of thi war, Genoa may
be chargeable with a£ts of questionable propriety
in relation to France, it is manifeft, that it ought to
be attributed to the neceflity of a situation which
must have obliged her to temporize—a very small
a«d feeble slate, in the midst of so many great con
, fliQing powers, parts of her territories occupied by
armies, which she was unable to oppose ; it were a mi
j racle, indeed, if her cowduft in every parti, ular will
■ bear the test of rigorous scrutiny. Bwt if at any
i time the of circumstances may have occa
; fioned some flight deviation, there is nevertheless
full evidence of a cbnftant folieitude on the p-irt of
Genca to maintain, to the utmofl of her ability, a
i sincere neutrality. It is impofllble to forget the
: glorious stand, which she at one time made ngninft
the imperious efforts of Great-Britain to her
from htt neutial position. The magnanimous'and
exemplary fortitude, which (he displayed or ttat
occasion, excited in this countryuniverf.il admirati
on, ar.d must have made a ceep imprefiion. 'Tis'
only to recollect that instance to be fatisfied, that
the treatment which she has just experienced from
France merits the indignant execration »f tm.ikiiid.
Unfortunate Genoa 1 how little didst thou imagine,
that thou wert destined so soon to be compei'ed to
purchafi£ thy fafety from ihe crushing weight of
that hand which ought to have been the firft lo rife
in thy defence !
How fruitful at the fame time of inftruftion to
us is th's painful example ! The molt infatuated par
tisans of France cannot but fee in it an unequivocal
proof of the rapacious and v[j> liftive policy which
diflates her measure*. All men must fee in it, that
she flagrant injuries which we are now fuffeiing
from her, proceed trom « general plan of domina
tion and plunder ; from a difpolition to prostrate
nations at her feet ; to trample upon their necks ;
to ravish from them whatever hei» avidity or conve
nience may think fit to dedicate t» her nwa-ufe.
The lad intelligent# from France seems to dispel
the deubt whether the depredations in the Weft-In
dies may Hot have resulted from misapprehension or
abuse of vhe orders of the French government. It
is now understood to be a fafl, that the cruifets of
France every where are authorised to capture and
bring in all veflels bound lo the ports ef her ene
mies.
This plan is pregnant with the worst evils, which
are to be dreaded from thef declared and unqualified
hostility of any foreign power. If- France, after
being properly called upon to renounce it, (hall per
fsvere in the measure, there cannot he a question but
that open war will be preferable to such a stale By
whatever name, treachery or pusillanimity may at
• tempt to diiguife it, 'tis ia fadfc war, war of the
woift kind, war on one sidb. If we can be in
duced to submit to it longer than is necessary to as
certain that it cannot be averted by negotiation, we
are undone a people. Whether our {[eterminati
on (hall be to lock up our trade by embargoes, or to
permit out commerce to continue to float an unpro
tf£led prey to French cruisers, our degradation and
ruin will be equally complete. The deftruftion ps
our navigation and commerre, the annihilation of
our mercantile capital, the difptifion a«d loss of our
feaitKn obliged to emigrate for fubfiflence, the ex
tindtion of our revenue, the fall of public credit,
the ua f ;nationof every species of induflrry, the ge
neral impoverifliment of our citizens, these will be
minor evils in the dreadful catalogue. Some year?
of security and exertion might repair them. But
the humiliation of the American mind would be a
lasting and a mortal disease in our social habit.
Mental debasement is 'he greatest misfortune that
can befal a people. The mo't pernicious of con
quests which a state can experience is a conquefi over
that just and elevated sense of its own rights which
inspires a due sensibility to insult and ihjury, over
that virtuous and generous pride of character, which
prefeis any peril or facrifice to a final fubmifSoß to
■ opprcflion, and which regardi national igncminy as
the greatelt »f national calamities.
The lecords of history contain numerous proofs
ef this truth. But an appeal to them is unnecelTi
ry. Holland and Italy present to our immediate
r observation examples as decisive as they are deplora
ble. The former within the laii ten years has un
dergone two devolutions by the intervention of fo
reign powers without ev«B a fcrious ftmgglc. Muti
lated of precious portions of its territory at home
by pretended benefaflors but real difpoilers, its do
minions abroad (line into the pofleflion of its enemies
| mies rather as dereli&s than as she acqmfitions of
victory. Its fleets surrender without a blow. Im
portant only by the spoils which it offers no less to
its friends than to its enemies—every symptom in
its affairs is portentous of national annihilation.
' With regard to Italy, 'tis fafficitnt to fay, that
1 (he is debased enough not even to dare to take part
iu a conleft, on whieh, at this moment, her deltiny
is fofpended.
Modeiation in eveiy nation is a virtue. In weak
or young nations, it is often wife to take every
i chance by patience and address to divert hostility,
i and in this view to bold parley vith infalt and tn
' j ur y—hut to capitulate with oppression, or rather to
' fm render to it at difcretien, is in any nation, that
r has any power of refinance at all times, as foolifh
r as it is contemptible.. The honor of a nation is its
i *ife. Deliberately to abandon it is to commit an
- aft of political suicide. Theie is treason in the fen
r timent, avowed in the language of some, and be
: trayrd by the conduct of others, that we ought t»
» bear any thing from France rather than go to war
- with her. The nation, «hich can prefer disgrace
. to danger i» piejiaied for# master, and deserves
: one 1
i AMERICUS.
CONGRESS or tub UNITED S7ATES
HOUSh OF RKPRESfcNTATIVtfi,
Thursday, January 19.
The House being in a committee of the whole on
the fubjed of further revenue, Mr. Dent in the
chair.
Mr. Hartley h»ped the am-ndment of the gen.
tleman from Connedicur, would not prevail. He
did not fee that there was a profped of f u f~
ficient revenue from impost duties, and they mtift
therefore, have recourse to dired taxes. The only
question was whether thelaft ceufus should be made
use of, or a new one taken ; he thought there w?»
no neeeffity for a new one. He was convinced, he
said, that a land tax was neceflary ; he would vote
for it, and pay his portion of it. He hoped, finee
they mud meet the question, that they might do it
fooa, and not consume mora time in debate.
Mr. Dayton (the speaker) said that the words
" according to the lajl census," which were proposed
to be stricken out, appeared to him objedionable
in every point of view. If they implied that the
enumeration made several years ago, (hould be the
rule of apportionment even though a new one
(hould be taken before the dired taxes were appor
tioned, or, what seemed more probable, if it was
intended in this mdiredt and covert way, to decide
that no new census should be ordered with a view to
a more equal apportionment of the burthens, there
wastn either cafe a glaring impropriety in retaining
and thu9 conneftyio them with the principle itf«ir.
The important qneltion ef dired taxes ought to
have been pr. fen ted ta the deliberation of the com
mittee of the whole, in terms the most general and
abltrad, dripped of every modification not necessa
rily conneded wi-h it, instead of whi.h, there was
blended in the fame sentence, and they were to de
cide in the fame breath, another question equally,
nay to some Hates more, important than the firit.
Whethe- they were t» take the relative numbers in
1790 or thole in 1797 as the guide in laying the
tax upon each liate, ought to undergo a full and
separate consideration, and not by feeing -wrapped
up as it Was in the other proportion, pass as the
sense of the house without any difcuflion.
Mr. Daytoo said he (hould be fatisfied with (bik
ing out thole words, and inserting no other, but if
any other were to be introduced he should prefer
those in the conditution, viz. " according to their
refpeftive utimieri." He was free to acknowledge
that he fttould not vote for the proposition, even if
the amendment, which he advocated, was carried,
for he could never conf#nt to resort to dired taxes
upon lands and hcufes, until the less exceptionable,
less unequal, and less opprefiive means of raising
revenue by indued taxes were exhausted. If how
erer, a majority should think different from him,
and carry the resolution for the adoption of a system
of dired taxation, ke should think it his duty to
move for a new census to be taken previVnfly to
the apportionment. This ought not ta he rtfufed, if
to equalize the public burthens was an objciS just
and defirabie. for if the lait enumeration of inhab
itants was to be adopted as the rule, every member
upon that ft <>r mult be fendble that New-Jersey
mult be rated an J taxed very far above her just
proportion, and that a farmer in Lis date mult con
tribute at lead fifty per cent, more than a farmer of
the fame polTeffions and property in either of the
adjoining dates. Sttcb, Mr. Dayfon said, had been
the Cffinfe of emigration, and such the Ihifting of
population from one state to another, that a census
taken seven years ago, would furnilh a very falfe
edimate of the prefientdate of wealth and popula
tion. WhiJll emigrations had been gointj on for
years pall from New Jeifey in all dircAinns, many
of the other dates had received valf accefliotts of
numbers, which ought to be ascertained by a new
enumeration, before they commenced their as yet
unexerciled power of dired taxation which profclies
to found its apportionment upon numbers only.
He did not at all concnr with the gentleman frot#
Virginia, who had said that the apportionment of
representatives mud neceffatily precede the appor
tior;ment of taxes under every new ienfus, for they
might fay with as much propriety that the repre
sentation under the new fhnuld not appropriate mon
ies raised under the old apportionment.
Mr. Swift said he did not thi,*k the prelent a
debate about words;~arrd hot cifTlTUrtance, as it had
been aflerted. His intention was to introduce the
vvofds " according to their numbers," instead of
" acco: ding to the lad census." He did not wi(h
the House to decide that the apportionment (honld
be made agreeably t» the lad cei.fus. He wilhed
to leave the refolutien open in that refpefl. If his
amendment took place, it would nnt preclude the
use of the lad census ; but if the resolution pafled in
its present form, it excluded all idea of a i.ew ceu
fus. He, therefore, thought the amendment im
portant, and he was sorry to hear gentlemen charge
him with improper motives in bringing it forward.
Mr. Swift referred to the words of the conftitu
tioa, relative to the taking of a census, and laying
dired taxes. From these word?, he said, Reprtfen
tation and Taxation mud go together, and that a
census could not betaken for the purpose of the
latter, without having effect upon the former also.
Admitting that a census could not be taken for the
purpose of a dired tax, it could be taken for both
purposes ; and he would much rather it ftioutd be
so taken, than that the tax ihould belaid according
to the lait census. Nor did he think this would
occasion much delay. It would appear, bt* laid,
as if fothe gentl.-rntn thought that a dired tax
could be collected as soon as determined upon.
This could not be. They mud pass a general law,
direding the principle of valuation to be adopted.
The butinefs could not be accsmplifhed before the
next session, however great the want cf money
might be j and the mode he proposed would
the bulinefs as soon as if the apportionment, was a'
this time made. He thought this a fufficient rca
fon for wilhipg his amendment to pass. No g' l1 *
.tleman had said, that it would be either fair or hon
ed, to make an apportionment aceoiding to the
present census. The date which he reprefw'.
when compared with the date of New-York, vouid
be greatly injured ; and ought they not, he
to have recourse xr> fume mcsfure, hv which.- o
prevent this injury ! He thmiglrf they ought.
thi9 amendment was adopted, and a new ceoluiaoieed upon, lie Tiad before said, It would he in to
their power to colled a tax as form as if the present nc
eenfuswas made use of. Why then, be aftright- gi
ed with difficulties ? Some gentlemen thought it th
impossible to obtain a cotreft census ; othets ftip- of
posed, that if it were taken for the purpose of asses- b<
sing a tax, it would not be more numerous than the in
last ; but be believed it was in tbe power of go- c;
Ternmtnt, to make laws equal to the equitable ap- d:
. portionment of the tax. But if a new census was h
not taken, Gonne&icut would pay 40,000 dollars a
more than Hie ought to do, and this sum would be If
paid to the state of New York, fmce that state t!
would pay so much less than its just proportion, ti
Would the people of Gonnefticut, who were now w
paying large funis for the interell of t debt which g
that state refufed or negle&ed to pay, be fatisfied b
with this ? He believed they would not. If indeed, t,
they meant to fatisfy the people of the United States J
in this business, they mult apportion tbe tax fairly j,
and equally, which could not be done by the pref t
ent ceofus. i
Mr. N. Smith said he (bould vote against thte a
mendment proposed by his colleague ; not because
'he approved of an apportionment being made accor- £
tb tUe present census, but because the amend- s
me-it would have ns tffe<3. The lefolution, he
said, after it wasfo amended, would Hand upon the j
fame ground as at present. To fay, " that th" tax (
(hould be apportioned according to numbers," was .
the fame thing at faying, "it should be apportion- j
ed according to tbe la(l census," as theonly way of .
di termining the numbers was by the last census.
The thing would, therefore, be the fame,' and they |
certainly ought not to vote to amend without some ,
meaning. 1
The resolution before them, he said, contempla
ted the apportionment of a tax the present fefiaoii: j
and if it pa/Ted, the tax mud be appropriated this
feffien, or not at all, and it must be according to .
the last census.
He agreed with that gentleman, that it would be
just that an enumeration (hould take place before
th-- ux ; but he believed, this could
not be effected by the amendment propoled. He
thought there was no other way of etfe&ing this,
than by difpoGng of the present resolution, and
by bringing in another. He agreed with that
gentleman, that a valuation and census might be
provided for ?t the fame time, and he believed it
would occasion 110 delay in the collection ; but if
this was the gentleman's idea, the present resolu
tion could not answer the purpose, under aßy mo
dification.
Mr. W. Smith was glad to find the gentleman
from Conne&icut had been explicit in declaring it
to be his intention to have a new census taken. He
was rather surprised to hear that declaiation after
what he had said at the time he introduced his mo
tion ; as he then told them, that he was opposed to
the tax,>but that our necefiities had convinced him
of the propriety «f going into it ; yet he now pro
posed to delay the business till next vtar, and furth
t. er, to relieve our necessities, he prnpofed an expence
of J O,OOO dollars in taking a new census.
Mr. S. thought this was the tims for trying this
qtiellion, whether the tax /hould be appoitioned j
according o the old or a a«w census : bccaHfe t:
gtnlemen were determined to vote adiieft
i<tx, except a new census was taken, it would be
■well to have that know:-. Nor ci»«lld the committee
of Ways and Means proceed with the bntinofs, un
til they knew whether the apportionment was to
be made upon the present census, or a new one must
be taken. To bring in a bill upon -fuel) uncertainty
would be doing nothing. It would be better that
t'.e qutftieo ttiould now be decided. He wished it
-might be understood that if a decision took plare
oitlhe resolution as reported, the old census would
be acted upon ; but if the proposed amendment w*s
agreed to, that a new one must be taken. If the |
latter (hould be the cafe, he (hould confide! the bu
iinefsas totally defeated, a*d think it necelfary im
mediately to go upon a system of incircft taxation.
He hoped therefore a decision would be taken.
"It would be remembered Mr. S. said, that the
law for taking r'ne last census palfcd in 1790, that
in 179' an amendment was found necelfary, and
the census was not received till 1 792. If so long a
time was now to be taken before the tax proposed
could be .carried into effect, (which was probable
would be the cafe, if a new census was determined
upon) eveiy gentleman must be convinced it would
not answer the purpose intended.
Mr. Baldwin hoped it would be recolle&ed that
"this queftinn would occur every year. If a land
tax is adopted as one of tbe permanent sources of
revenue to ftipply the rreafury, it might be dated
every year, that there had been large removals from
one state into another, extending in some cases to
«fn or twenty thousand inhabitants, and that there
fore a census mutt: be taken every year to make the
tax equal. He thought the only question now
_proper!y bnfore them was, wheiher the demands on
the government were not now so great that the
countty must be publicly disgraced and their credit
proftr 'ted by not fulfilling its engagements, tinlefs
further revenues are provided, and that adequate
revenues cannot be provided without refortirig to
a land tax. If the present state of our affairs fotce
M to such a tax, the conft.ittition requires it (hould
be according to the lad census. In laying the tax
it may be a good reason to urge that the land tax
/hould be as final! as possible till another census can
betaken, and also te urge taking measures to ob
tain a new cenlus. As soon as a new census is ta
ken, the tax, no doubt, in some inltauces, will be
rnoreequd, but these inequalities must take place
between the different periods of taking the census;
he thought it not a fufficient reason for putting off
the question for two or three years, which mud be
its tffe<Sl.
Mr. Nicholas hoped, fine* the question had been
stirred, it would be decided upon. It was not a
principle upon which they wete at liberty to «r
rot- It appeared to him that the gentleman from
New Jeifey, (Mr. Dayton) was perfectly mistaken.
If they were now to apportion a direct tax, they
must determine it according to num'-ers ; it was a
decision they could not avoid. And notwithfland
ing th >t »eiitleman had flattered himfelf, that he
bad difcovcred an intention of doing wrong toother
pai.aui ilu Union, he believed it would be found
«
to have arisen m*re from thst gentleman's willing- *5
nefsto have found him in that situation, "thai; any
ground he had for the charge. It was his opinion
that a census mud be taken, for the double purpose
of reprefentatien and taxation, and that it could not
be taken fur the purpose of a tax, without extend- S C J
ing to the feprefentation also. Therefore, if a new
csnfus was made, it would be five years before a
dircft tax could be laid ; for the different dates
having elected their members upon the old census, Scl
a sew «ne could not be acted upon until a new e
lefiion took plaee ; it would be three years before SI"
the new legislature would meet; and it would be
two years afterwards before the aft tor a direct tax
would be completely in effeift ; unlets, indeed, the
1 gentlemanfrom Connefticutt thought a census could r iv
I be taken for taxation only, which "nuft have been .
1 the opinion of the gentleman from New Jeifey a o. Ith
I Mr. N. said he knew it was impossible to do equal
' judice to every part of the Union in a bufineis o 25
this kind. All they could do was te come as near to
it a« possible. , . '
Mr. Williams said, this was one of tbe difficulties fei
; which must have been i'orefeen to attend a iyttem
' of direst taxation. He hoped the amendment *
* would not prevail. It wan true, he said, there had pa
e been great emigration into the state of New- or >~ a
c but the emigrants were mostly gone into the wil- pa
4 dernefs, and could not be expeflcd to bear a part in
8 any tax which might be laid on that date. ror
- his own part, he believed, if the amendment was Mh
,f agreed to, it would defeat the whole bufinefjs ; and pt
'• thou"h he did not wiffi immediately to go into a bi
y system of direst taxation (except indeed the plan
e should be such as he wholly approved) he had a desire
to fee it organized. He (till wiflied they had hrft C
l " gone into the bufinef# of appropriation, before they bT
had been called upon to vote on this question. ar
5 he Coiiiinued?^
o —7 C
e President's Ball. 2<
LADIES owd Gentlemen are reqnefted to hand their
tickets of admifliort to the Doorkeeper, without
d which they cannot be admitted. They are also requcfted
e to direct their Coachmen to set down with their Hoifes* S
5, heads towards th? Schuylkill, and to take up faith their J3
j head* towards the Delaware.
If any through mistake (hould not have re
ceived their tickets,thry are reque(l«d to leave notice there
'e of in writing, at Mr, CEllers s Hotel. 1
it February 21 2
II i\ew Theatre.
= s
On THURSD.-1 r EVENING, February 23,
„ ' Will be presented, a tragedy, called
JA N e Shore. £
e Duke of Mr. Warren
?r Lord Hastings .• Mr. Wignrll S
j. Cite ft) y Mr. Warrell, jun.
Q Sir Richard Ratclilfe Mr. Darlev, jun.
Bclraoix Mr. Fox
Dumont Mr. Mo c'on
3- Earl of Derby Mr. Warrell
Alicia Mrs. C
Jane Shore Mrs. Morris
To which will be added, «
(Fortbe firft; time in this Theatre, —and with tbe original
is Frcncn Muiic, com posed bv Mr. Ra tchfort, never pc - I
| formed in \merica) c
t * } A Gl a nd, Serious, PANTOMIStE BALLET, called
6 Ihe Death cf C apt. Cook ; f
[As performed in Covcnt-Garden Theatre, London, under
ee the direction of Mr. Byrnf, upwards of Fits. Huno
n- R 1 d Nichts, with universal, applause.} 2
to With Entire New Scenery, Machinery,
Dresses and Decorations. *
ty an Exact Rfi-refcatation of the Manncs and CuftoHis t
at of the Na'tivrs of Owhyhee, in the Fac'fic Ocean*
The Scenery deigned and executed by Mr Mri.aoußNf. (
[P-<rticula* s wui be -xprcffi d in fur'ure advrrnfements.J
e On Fridav, Evert O.v s has his Fault. !
dd On Sa'.uiday, The Wheil of Fortune ;—-with 1
.•*S Enenaioments.
hc The fourth night of THE WAY TO GET MAR
VJ _ RIED will be on Mond.iy next.
Box, One Dollar twenly-five cents. Pit Seven Eigh'hs
m " of a Doiiar, 'nd Gallery, half a dollar.
30. Tickets to be had at 11. & P. Rice's l3ook-ftore.
No. 5e and at the Office adjoining the
be Theatre.
lat Indies and Gentlemen are reqtiefted to fend their
nd Servants to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, ant}
so order them, as soon as the compiny are featfcd, to
" withdva.w, as they cannot oa any account be permit
ted to remain. *
b'e The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
led Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
nld Places for the Boxes to tie taken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from io till 2 o'clock, and from
r 10 till 4on the days of performance.
nd l r lF T RFSPUBt ICA!
e ° d f A House and Lot.
FOR SALE,
A HOUSE and Lot, in a good neighbourhood, and
pleasant situation ; it is the fccond Honfe call of sth
re ftrcet, of that handsome row of new buildings, now near
the finiihing, situate on Arch, between Fourth and Fifth
ow streets ; and is about twenty feet front and forty-two feet
on ' fe P : t ' lc ot ' s a ' s ® ut e 'ghty f«et deep, more or left: j
. and above the height of the firft story hasa pleasant open- ;
' '. e g t0 'he South, of perhaps three hundred fe« more, j
dit Poffelfion may be had about the ift of April or May next. '
less Terms are, three thousand dellars t« be paid on receiv
a!e iigthe title, .nd the refidu? if desired may remain for
(o seven years on f cunty and interest—
Or vacant lots, situate on Arch street, any where be
ice tween Front and Twelfth streets, will b« taken in pay
uld ment, either in part or for the whole amount of the pur
tax chafe; according to their value at libsral rates.
, x Foj further particulars, please to apply at the Counting
an House of the Su fcriber, Arch-street, No. 146, any
moraiog, from 7 to 8 o'clock.
c,b " WILLIAM SANSOU.
I»- February
ace This Dtty is Publijhcd,
By Meflrs. W. Cog bett John Ormrop,
LU i BURKE's LETTERS
® On the proposals of making PE ACK with the
be REGICIDE DIKECTORY
OF
een FRANCE.
t a Feb. n. s3t
om Sales of MALAGA WINE.
en - TO MORROW MORNING,
ley At 10 o'clock, will be Sold by Public AuSion, on Ha
s a milton's Wharf, for approved endorsed Notes at 60 days.
„d - SIXTY QUA RTER CASKS
Old Mountain WINrJi,
er Of Superior QnaKty.
ind February »i. Wm. SHANNON, Aufl'r.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST. Cr&
WOT*—— 3rm '
Errv
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA, ftab j
ARRIVED. tr
Schr. Fancy. Venn, New Prdvjdence, i I nay* rrr >
Betsy, Mitcbcll, Cayenne I 7 l .
Neptune, Stewart, Pott-de-Paix 16
CLEARED. ,s ''
Schr. Virgigia, Henderfon, Norfolk an
Jupiter, Burbank, New-York | > w
! Sl.iop James, Palmer, L'fe Veau , ter
Driver, Paddock, ' Ntw-Yaik P ?ai
Endeavour, Taylor, Norfolk
The brig Trial, Gardner, of Philadelphia, is ar. 2f»
rived at Savannah from St. Croix.
The price of flour at Jamaica nth Jsnuary per *hi
i the cargo was 27 dollar?. ,n '
1 | A letter from Cape Nirhola Mole, dated Jan. P"
f 29th, fays, " The Britifc will not allow any veflel : f"p
' to enter Cape Francois. Two or thee days ago a ' lve
(hip bound for the Cape was detained by them and '
r • 1 ~ uml
i feßt in here. ter
1 The brig Jsne is arrived at New-Providence from waj
t Waterford, whence (he said November 26, in com- t j, e
I paiiy with three aimed transports, having on board h r o
; about IQOo troops, destined for St. Domingo, but msr
■ I parted with them soon after leaving Waterford. 66
1 The troops were commanded by Col. Dillon.
r Capt. Venn, frors New-Providence, informs that
s Nhe schooner Caroline, Capt. Smith, of Boftos,
1 put in there in diiirefsj out 107 days from Ham
i "burg ; had loft two men, and Wiis (hort of provi
-1 fion :—expefted to fail in four days,
e Left at New-Provident*, the schooner Betsey,
I Capt. Linkinghorn, to fail for Boston in 4 days—
f brig Nancy, Smith, for Washington, in 6 days—
and brig Mary Ann, for Washington, in 8 days.
On the 13th of Feb. spoke the schooner Orange
- Capt. James, from Cayenne, for RUode-Ifland, out
20 days—lat. 35, long. 54, 30.
Baltimore, February 19. '
d ARRIVED. -r
i' Ship Margaret, Coward, Rotterdam 1
r Brig Albern, Vel'ey, St. Croix coi
Arrived yesterday, schooner Difmtch, captain ra<
Thompson, from Curracoa, last from L'Anceveau,
18 days. Spoke nothing. Coffee it L'Anceveau, \ L -,
25 to 28 foU3. s O ,
New-York, February 20" th<
Arrived at this Port. Days | ter
Ship Three Friends, Sherry, Amsterdam 60 c,e:
!» Catharine, Starbuck, St. Übes 84
Andromache, Cadiz 94 mi
Brig Sifters, Null, Savannah 14
Two Sifters, Sharon, Cape Francaia 14
Schooner Heniy and Gultavus, Hempftead, St.
Bartholomews 18 _
Betsey. Brea, N»rth Carolina 7
Atlantic, Bates, Norfolk 7
Same, Solomon, Virginia 5
Sloop Nancy, B.irilet, North Carolina 8
Britoin, Borwe, do. 9
CLEARED. t
- Brig Essex, Waddle; St. Croix A
Schr. Regulator, Pei'kins, Anx Cayes cr
Brig Sufas. and Polly, from New-York to Jap;
• maica, is taken by a Frer., a privateer, carried into Sc
Cape Francois and condensed. of
d- The Sliip Olive, John O'Brien master, was fafe
at Grenada on the Bth January last.
)'> Ship Matilda, Tombs, returned with the loss of A
main and nw'zen matt off the Capri of Virginia on A
sit the 10th inft.
On the 29th nit. ihe biig Polly from Wilming- ff
ton (N. C ) bsund to New London, ran on a reef
at the S. W.cnd of Block Island ; veflel and cargo
ith loft. A passenger by the name of John Fullerton, j u
and two were drowned.
11- rnrtii — - t,
hs By this day's Mails.
re. , —ll
he BALTIMORE, February 19. e
A new invention of printing has lately been put
in practice at Basil in Switzerland. It is a mode tl
to of printing maps of countries with types, in the f
! t _ ufua! manner of letter prcU. The types consist of 1
an infinite variety of forms, by which the turnings
:he and windings of roads* riverst &c. are expressed
with a vary oonfiderable degree of beauty and ac
'ie curacy. 1
im 0
! AUGUSTA, February 2.
On Tuesday last the legislature ef this state ap- v
painted William Few, esq. Judge of the Superior v
Court, for the Middle Di(b :!t ; John Milton, esq.
m( j Secretary of State ; John Berrien, esq. Treasurer ; a
sth Daniel Sturges, e(q. Surveyor General j Dodtor M.
ear Burke, health-.officer for the port of Savannah ;
jf'h Edward M'Failin, esq. vendue master for the town p
j of Augusta ; Mathew Johnfton, J. D. Dickinfon,
en l William Belcher, John Gibbons, Nicholas Hopfon £
sre. ■ Bugg and Thomas Robertfon, vendue mallets for j
:xt. the city of Savannah. (
:iy- —_ £
NEW-YORK, February 20.
j The (hip Three Friends, captain Sherry, arrived
l 3J ._ yesterday fiom Amfttrdam ; failed from the Texel
iur- on the 15th December.
By captain Sherry we are informed, that on the ,
in £ 28th November, the prohibition of the importation <
an ' of Weft-India produce from England was again 1
taken off. ,
4 Rice was from 54 to 58s, and thought falling.
It was said, that the Empress of all the Rufllas,
the great CATHARINE was dead.
No expectation of peace—it was feared that the
negoeiation at Paris would fall through.
France having (hut the British out of almofl all
the European ports, it was espefted that they
would extend this object also to the ports of Ham
burgh and Bremen.
Several passengers came in the Three Friends.
Captain Sherry spoke nothing to impede his pas
sage.
Ha- The owners of the Three Frienns favored us
ays. with papers o; December I, which contain 'feme
important articles, of which the following it a
hatty abft&adt—
A Vienna account of November 16, fay?, the
r. Auftriang bad been beaten ia Italy with gmt loss,
/
that another campaign was fixed { 40,000
Croats had been engaged, and it was exuetto. « '
army of 400,000 woujd be errtfeodied early, a»the
Emperor would never fuffer afly Republics to be e
stablished in Italy under the piateftipn of the
French. *
Little was said at Vienna on the fubjeft ol
At the fir ft bombardment of Kehl, abom the
tath November, the Auftriano loft 3,000 killed,
and that it was fnppofed, if tlie French h<l>' «'it
I 6 weeks, of 65,000 believing- Anftrians, one quaf
! ter it Isaft wonld be killed. No later aecount ap
; pears on this nibjeft.
In the National Convention at the rlagtie, N< >v »
28, debate was had on the the new con
ftitiitinn, when many petitions were prefeute.l, r.f
whtah 144. were from A mSterdam, that
in the formation of the seven provli're? ml.o a re
public, there miglt 1>» unity a->d indivisibility, tcS
| fnpport which principles they would expend thus
1 lives and fortunes. _
I .1 The reported plan did not express the principle of
unity and indivisibility, a debate therefore en'uetl (2.-
ter the petitions we'e read) in which there was much
' warmth, whether thev would proceed to debate it as
" the basis of their Conftinuion, or have a lew report
1 brought in ; finally, Novembtfi- 29, on the appeal no
t min?l, it was decided to proceed on the present report,
. 66 to 52.
1 For Sale by the Subscribers,
» Georgia Cotton
Carolina Indigo
Fyal and Teneriffe Wines
Ravens Duck
Gurrahs
' CofTahs
f India Bandana Handkerchiefs
One Trank containing Sewing Silks and Silk
and Cotton Handkerchiefs
e N. & J. FRAZTJ R,
t No. 95, S. Front-street.
February at. 4wjtaw
GENERAL ORDERS.
'"["'O-MORROWbeing the 65th of tkeliirth
n JL of the Prefidentof the United States, Capt. Skerrct's
X company of artillery with two brass 11 pounders will pa
n rade at 11 o'clock at the corncr of Seventh and Walnut
prccifely at 12 o'clock will commence the
' firing of 16 rounds. The companies of Grenadiers and
J ' j Light Infantry commanded by captains Nulion, ftobin
fon. Johnfton, and Hozey will afiemble i 1 the front of
the State House, at 10 o'clock, to bs in readi.iefs to at
tend the Procession to the Presidents. From the Prefi
n dents the Grenadiers and l.ight Infantry companies will
pioceed up MarTcet-ltreet to the corner of Ninth-street,
4 there to perform such Fvolutions and Firing as the Com
'4 manding Officer of the Day may think proper to direct.
4 By order
4 JOS. HARMAR, Adj. Gen. M. P.
t, February 21 It
8 t
1 A New Work.
PROPOSALS
For printing and pubiifhing, by (üblcription, The
9 Biftory of pennfyJvania,
iN North-America, the original iotyilji'ion and fettle
meat of th t province, under the firlt proprietor and gov
ernor, William Pe>n, in 1681, 'till after the year 174®;
cs witli .in INTRODUCTION tefpafrng the Lift of ■ .
a " PENN, prior to thegrant of thar Province, and the relictou|
to Society of the* pepple called Quakers; withtbe FIR>V RISE
of the NEIGHBORING COLONIES more particulari v >f
r WEST-NEW-JERSEY, and the Settlement of the DUTCH
ktC and SWEDES ou b.EL W ARE.
To which is added,
of A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PROVINCE.
on And of the general slate, in which if flnuriftied, print- pally
between the years 1760 and 1770. The whole including a
vgrietv.of things, ufetul and mierefting to be known, re
fpefting that country in early time, See. With an appendix,
■ef Written principally between the years 1776 and 1780,
By ROBERT PROUD
4t Pulchrum ejl benefacere reipublicce, etium benedicere haud ah
>n > furdvm eft. vel pace vel belleclarum fieri licet.*' £>al. Catalin.
4k Seaenm pierique arbitrentur res bellicat majores ejje quam ur
- banas, mtnuenda ell hacopinio " Cic. Off. /
( b ntered according to law J
" WILLI AM PENN, theg'eai leg»fl.)tor of theQuakerg,
(in Pcnnfylv nia) had the success of a conqueror, in efttblith
ing and defending Irs celony, among tribes, without
ever drawing the sword ; the goodnels of the mofl benevo
lent rulers, in treating his fubje&s as his own children ; and
>U fine tenderness of an universal father, who opened his arms
to all mmkind without diftinflion o> feft or ln hi*
he Republic it was not his religious creed, but perlonal merit*
that entitled every member of society to the protection and
emolument of the State "
I s * sj'y on Toleration, by Arthur Q*Lemry.
red CONDITIONS.
Ac- I. This work will be printed in two o&avo volumes, neat
lv bound and lettered, both inflieap and calf, for the choice
of the fubferibers; on paper hmilar tothat of the conditions,
as publijhed in the Subscription papers.
11. The head of Wiiliam Penn, handsomely engraved,
ap- will be prefixed to the firft, and a map or (ketch of Pennfyl
ior va ™ a * an( * P arts adjacent, to the second volume
r lII* The price to fubferibers will be four dollars and an
half in (heep,and five dollars in calf; —one dollar to be paid.
?r ; at the time of fubfciibing, two dollars on the delivery of the
M. si rft volume, and the remainder on the delivery of the second.
1 # IV. When one thousand copies are fdbferibed for, the
' work will be put t® press and finifhed with ail convenient ex.
wn petition.
on, Sublcriptions will be received by Zachariah Poulfon, jun
son P r i nt cr, No. 80, CheOmt-ftraet, and at the Philadelphia Li
brary in Fifth-ftreet; by Isaac Collins. Printer, and Joseph
* or James, Merchant, New-York; by John P. Pleafants and
GeorgeW. Field, Merchants. Baltimore; and by other
perfonsboth in town and country.
January 18* * 3tavtf
ved
xel A MANUFACTORY for Sale.
A valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufactory, situate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almott new,
ion on an entirely original construCtion, and built of the Left
a j n materials, and may be set to work immediately. Persona
whowilhto purchase, ate requcfted to apply ai No 473,
South Sccond Street. September 13. t t f tt
r.
FOR SALE,
the At Whitesides's TEA-Warehouse,
Ne. 99, North Second Street.
all Imperial ("Hyson Skin.
h C y Hyson, C Freflj Teas. < Souchong,
am _ Young Hyson, J Bohea
i)ec. 9. 3taw.jm,
;S: RICE.
180 Tierces Rice for Sale by
I Samuel Breck, Jun.
t>me No. 89 South Third Street
J a LIKEWISE, J -
1J or ao Pockets COT TON, anil
, A Quantity I H. SHERRY WINS,
T " e 50 C-fci SWfiKT OIL, Stt. &c.
lolt, 11 Jtllisffi;
L ' 'Lancajler, Uarrijburgh, Cttrlijle, Sbtp
■penjburg and Sun bury
STAGE S.
, The public are requcfled to tak~ notice r that the.part
ncrlhip which' has for some time, f # led betweou Mathi
v*• a*> Slough of Lancaster, and Williai.i Geer, is now diflol
vcd . hat, not as M. Sjough insinuates to the public
withont just cause ; as will more fully-appear by a letter
on the fubje(st from M. Slough t® W. Geer, dated the
29th December lall, a recital of which is not now deemed
, neceflary. Auy gentleman who wishes to be more cir
cumflantially informed of the merits of this business, by
applying to W. Geer may have the perusal c>f M. Slough's
letur, and then can be at full liberty to determine whe
ther or not W. Geer is not perfe&ly juftifiabie in attach
ing himfelf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenlburg,
or ajjy other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generousfupport the public
were pieafed to confer 0:1 the firft effort in this bulinefs,
"William Geer, in conjunction with Messrs. Reily, Weed
and Witmer, is determined to prosecute and carry it on,
with every care, attention anddifpatch that a zeal to o
blige the public can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided with
carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to ren<icr the
passage fafe and commodious, inform thofa who wish to
patronize and encourage the undertaking, th?.t they can
take their feats at George Weed's, the sign of the White
Horse, Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrilburg, Carlisle
and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto eifcablifted.
For thtf/further accommodation of the public, a Stage
will {tart every Wednesday from the house of Samuel
Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sunbury in Northumber
land county, every Thursday, and return from the«ce and
arrive at Harrifburg every Saturday, so that passengers
deftjned for Lancaftcr or Philadelphia, may proceed on
Mondays.
WILLIAM GEER.-
Lancafler, Jan. «7, 1797.
N. B This Line of Stages ftartd from the house of
William Ferree, in Lancaster, on every Tuesday and Sa-v
turd ay morning at 6 o'clock, proceeding to the westward;
and from the house of Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg
every Wednesday morning, on the fame evening arrives
at Patrick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns fr®m
thence on every Thursday : performing} the fame routine
daily as in its tour from Philadelphia. mwf
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 SouthThirdftnset.oppofitethenatiorral new Bank'
SAMUEL M FRAUNCES and JOHN VAN
have entered into co-partner(hip, under the firm of
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commiiiion merchants. # 'l'hey buy and
fell on commission every species of Hock, notes of hand,
tills of exchange, honfes and lands, &c.
Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds cf
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
riifj>atch ; accounts adjured, and books fettled, in the
mofl correct manner. Constant attendance will 'be given.
They solicit a fliare of the public favor ; chey ire deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmost l'ecrecy observed.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
Philad. August 27, 1796. m&wtf
Washington Canal Lottery,
No. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifac!
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Walhingtou, fro.-. 1 th Po
tomac to theEaftern Brafich Haruour.
The follQv/ing is the SCHEME of No. I.
Via --1 Prize ot 10,000 dollars, 10,000
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7 lad drawn")
Tickets,each j S ' OS ° 3J,000
A 6 ditto 1,000 • 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
ao ditto 100, 4,000
55 ditto 50 1,750
j7jo ditto 11 60,008
To be raised tor th« Canal, 36,15s
5850 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
p- The Commilfioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid a<st for tkc punAual payment ol
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as tfee Tickets are fold, of which timely
-ndtice will be given.
Such prize* as are not demanded in fix months after tht
drawing is finifhed, (hall be confidcred as relinquifhed,f< -
sthe benefit »f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
' (Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D
■ > LEWIS DE3LOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
W m . M. DUNC ANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Wafhipjp.on, Feb. n. $
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land;
* V\ ELL situated, laying on' and between Marlh
and Beech Cracks, Mifflin county, Pennfyivania, in
four separate Patents. For terms ot lale apply to
Wm, Blackburn,
No. 64, South Second-ftrtet
January sfc. mwftf
J
{PURSUANT to a Resolve of the Board of Trustees of :
Washington Academy, in Somcrfet County, and
State of Maryland,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the office of Principal Teacher in the laid school Jis
vacant.
A GENTLEMAN qualified to teach the higher Greek and
Latin Claflies. Geography, and the Mathematics, with
such othef branches of literature as are usually taught in such
schools, would meet with liberal eneouragemcnt, and, it is
believed, would obtain a very eligible settlement. For the
prefeot, the Trufiees would be willing to contract with a per
son capable of taking charge of a Grammar S hool.
Asthis Institution is provided with building* fufficient to
accommodate the principal and his family, and from seventy
to eighty boy«[; a lib Vary, auexcellent philofophicil and ma
thematical apparatus, globes, maps, &c.; h: * refpe&ablc
funds, and is situated in a plentiful and agreeable part of the
countfy ; nothing fcero.; v. anting to make it rank among the
xnofl ufeful ferrr naries in this part of the Union, but a suitable
chara&er to preside in it.
Proposals may be addrefTed to the fubfcri&er, in Princess-
Anne, in the neighborhood of thq Academy, or to Doctor
•Martin L Haynie, No. 83, north Phila
dtlplna, or to ilie Printer horeot.
EZEKIEL HAYNIE.
January 20. Feb. 7. tu&lßw
A Woman Cook,
can be well recommended, may hear of a good
place by enquiring of the Printer.
February 17. TlhS^w.
PROPOSALS, ' '
For carrying the Mails of rhe Un/ted
States,
On the following Pojl Roads, will he rectived until
the firjl day of March next inclujive :
1. From Charleston, J§. C. by Jackfonboro' and Coofa
hatchy, 10 SaVanran, twice a week. Receive the Mml
at Charlafton every Tueiday and Friday by 6, P. M. and
deliver it at Savannah the next Friday and Monday, by o
A. M. Returning, receive the Mail at Savannah eve y
Saturday, by 6, P.M- and Wednesday by 6, A. M. and
deliver it at Charleston the next Tuesday aftd Friday
by noon.
Proposals for ibis route •will be received by the pbfirmajier at
Savannah.
2. FromCooTahatchy to Beaufort once a week—
Receive the mail at Coofahatchy every Thursday by 6,
p. m. and deliver it at Beaufort by noon on Friday. Re
turning, leave Beaufort every Friday by 3, p. M.and arrive
at Coofahatchy on Saturday by 8, a. m.
Proposals for carrying the mail on this route will be re
ceived by the poit-mafter at Beaufort.
Note 1. The Post-master General may alter the times
for the arrival and departure of the mails at any time da
ring the continuance of the contra&s, he previouflyflipu
lating an adequate compensation for any exua expence
chat may be occafioncd thereby.
Note 1. For every hours delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in arriving after the times prescribed by cqii
tra<sl, the contractor shall forfeit one dollar, and if th"
delay continue until the departure of any depending mail
an additional forfeituis of five dollars (hall be incurred.
Note 3j. Should any person making proposals desire an
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe
cified, he must (late the alteration desired aad the pri .! *#
he will carry the mail for with and witkuut Jfuch alte
ration.
Note 4. Tiie contra As are te be in operation on the
firft day of April next and to continue until the 30th of
in the year ißbo.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Pojl MjJler General.
General Post Office, >
Philadelphia, Jan. 13,1797.3
16. * 2aw6w.
_____
TAUGHT BY
MRS. B r R N, i
Of the New Theatre, To Ladies only.
THINKING it a great advantage for thefti to have Ja |
Female Tutor in that art, pledges herfelf t© their par- !
ents and friends to take allpbflible care in their inftrudtion.' 1
In addition to the Dances taught in Philadelphia, means '
to teach the Minuet, Minuet de la C'our, Aliemand, Ga- :
vot, Quadrilles, Strathspeys, and all Scotch Dances ; and
above all to pay particnlar attention to that very necefLry '
part Polite Addjefs. For particulars enquire-of Mrs. Byrn,
No* 70 north Eighth-street. Februry6 mwftf
By Authority.
Scbuyiidll Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South SecondJlrret.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For raising Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an Aft of
the Legislature ot Pennfylvaeia, palled during the lalt
fellion, tor building a Stone Bridge over the Rivei
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, ib the County of
Berks. Dollars,
t Prize of 20,000 Dollars - 20,000
1 do. of i©,ooo do, • • 10, coo
3 do. of 5,000 do. - 15,000
4 do. 1 of 2,000 do. . . 8,000
so do. of 1,000 do. ... 20,000
39 do. of 500 do. - . 19*50°
80 do. of 200 do. ... i6,cco
£OO do. of 100 do. - 20,000
300 do. of 50 do. - . 15,000
i do, of 500 do. to be paid the poflfef- )
(of t the firft drawn uo. )
5 dcu of 3,000 do. to be paid possessors )
of the five last drawn uog J l s» c
9,400 do. o 15 do. : - 141,000
10,054 Prizes 500,000
19,946 Blanks
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
All Prizes fliali be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
finifhed, upon the demand of a pofleflor of a fortunate
licket, fubjeft to a dedu&ion of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as foomas the Tickets are difpoftd
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Ktrjhner, William IVitman,
Jttfeph Hiejier, James Dinner, Thomas Dundus,
James May, John Otto, John Ke'tm, Daniel Craej),
§ebaj)i*x Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the 9th, 1796.
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. i, to be had at the
above office, where the earl it ft information of the draw
ing of the Walhington No. a, and Patteriin Lottery's,
are received, and checkbooks for examination and regjf
teriifgare kept.
Tickets in the above Lottery to bs had at Mr, Sheri
dan's Race-ltrset, John Hay, North Tlurd-ftrect apd
Henry German Town.
January 26 lawti
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second street.
TCKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. N 2, for fait—a
Check Book for examination —and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and refiftering,.for
| the Ciry of Wafhingtou, No. 2, and Pattcfon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are 10 be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift ef all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Baak Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Landj,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
%* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten I)ollEr6 each, which will be drawn early in
the Spring.
J'lvk. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, January a 6, 1797. . mth
Peter Borger,
No. 129 Mulberry-Slrtti, \
HAS imported by th« brig Tiyal, captain Robert Knox,
and the Good Friends captain Smith, from Hautburg,
7000 Empty French bottles,
200 do demijohns,
246 do. filled with beans and lentils,
100 Hand Engines,
100 Pi. Plaiillas,
*_ 2co While Rolls—
ALSO
Several boxes with decanters and tumblers, half pint, pint
and quarts—one invoice toys—containing
fnuf£-boxcs, looking-gbffes, &c.
100,000 Quills of different qualities,
150 Boxes Window Glass, 7-9 9-11 11-12.
ON HAND
10 Q r * Casks Sherry Wine,
4 do. Brandy,
200 Calcs betk Holland Gin,
200 Boxes Red Wine, containing i( bottles each,
One bale of Flannels assorted ,* and
30 P s « Cloth,
Frelh Prunes in boxes and barrels.
February > tu & fr
PGR SALE, BY ' . J
Philip Nick!in & Co.
rsr; *" 3 } r*s
j 7 Tubs Quickfilyi:r
a Chests Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chests Mancliefltf Goods, well assorted in Cor
duroys, Thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, See.
3 Trunks black Sewing :iillc
180 Crates Queen's Wa>e, welt affortfd
xo Tons Sheet Leaf!
Nails assorted flat and (harp points
London Partiular 7 Madeira wine«in pipes and hogs-
India Market j heads
40 Fif* and 10 Hoglheads Teneriffe Winp
IO Hoglkcads chaice Port Wine
7 Tierces Snake-Root
26 Calks y.liaw Paint
9 Boxes and 12 Bundles writing Slates.
I Box Ink Stands and Note Presses x
14 Bales Sr.il Canvass assorted, No. I to 8
February 11. mw&ftf
£ N D I N G, ,
A T Walnut-street wlvirf, from on board the Ihip Peg-
X 1 gy, captain Elliott, from Boardeaux,
ViN DL GR.'.VE, or White Claret, in Hhds and Qr.
Calks
R2D CLARET, iu Hlids
Ditto in cases of 24 and 30 bottles each
Green and Soudiong TEAS, in quarter chests -
For sale by
/ Rundle Leech,
Nn. 9 Walnut.street.
February 6 mwftf
20 Guineas Reward.
RUNAWAY froai the fubferiber on the 23d OSobor,
a Dark MIJLATI'O BOY, named n years
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high-; had 011 a mked grecti'
ccat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buujno;
a flriped vest ; a pair of dark jpotted pantaloons, and
whole boots, ntuch worn. It is probable he Ir.ay change
his name and dress. He ha 9 been accuftoincJ to driving
a carriage, arid waiting. The- above reward will be
paid for securing him so that the fubferihsr may get him
again, and if brought jjonic all rcafonable charges paid by
Robins Chamberlai/td.
Eafton* Maryland, Nov. to. 14 A Jmaa , wtf
The Subscriber
INFORMS the Public, that he manufactures ana has on
iL hand tor fa\f . a very general aflortnient
Saddles, Bridles, Harness and Trunks,
As usual, also, PIRL BUCKETS of an excellent quality
all which he will dispose of on moderate terms at No' 88
Chefnut street, Philadelplija^
JVILLIAJk JONES.
Fcbruaiy 17 . fm&w 3 w
Will be fold,
On Wednesday, the 2id day of February, inflant,
At the Merchants'Coffee-Houfe,
At 12 o'clock., noori^
A Lot, or Piece of Ground,
Containing 11 acres aud 100 perches, situate near the
Blue Ball Tavern, on the Paffyunk road, four miles
from the city of Philadelphia. This Lot commands a
view of the riversDelawarc and Schuylkill, is nearly inclos
ed witli a good cedar post and rail fence, and has a never
failing spring of frelh water riling in it—One acre of
which is good bottom meadow—adjoining lands of Willi
am Bingham, El'q. Jacob Sink, and others. The terms
of sale, one fifth part in ten days after the day of sale,
when immediate poffeflion will be the reiidue in
payments agreeable to the purchal'er, on paying legal in
tcrelt therefor, and giving security for the fame, if re
quired. An mdifputable title will be given, upon mak
ing the firft payment as aforefaid.
A Draft of said Lot may be Xeen at the Merchants'
Coffec-Houfe, and at the office of Alexander l ower, No.
145 Chcfaut-ftreet, where further information may be
had. Philadelphia, February 14 §taa
Davis's Law Book-store
No. 313, HIGH--SI.REET.
GEORGE DAVIS announce* to his proteflional friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally,' through the
Union, that his lajfcimportation 6f BOOKS is now arrAiig
ed, and ready for Sale, from a tingle volume to an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, which for leveral paifc have in so dntiuguifned a
manner recommended them to notice .
Printed Catalogues combining the extei live collec
tion cf the latest ana J nib Editions ever imported
into this country, are pwblilhcd, and will be aelivered giauii
on application.
Orders add re fled to G. D. in writing froxn any distance
shall be pundiually attended to.
A number of 1 RUNKS for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient LOs Market Street Whajt.
tu&f^w
WalLingtou Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be pur chafed or
exchanged for prizes, at the Qrticc, No. 147, Chdhut
ftreet, where z. corretil Numerical Book is kept for publi;
infpedlion. Alio Canal JLottery Tickets for sale «r ex
changed for prizes diaww in the Washington Lottery, of
which the 60th and 6lit days returns are received.
«JT The Business of a Broker carried on as usual.
January n. ttstf
This Day is Pubjifhed,
JtY Mess* Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Kice, and the otTiei
Bo.il.fellers, price One Dollar and twenty-live cents, elegant
ly printed on woye paper, and hot-preived, b) John Thump
fon,
A COMPARATIVE -VIEW OF
The CONSTITUTIONS of the fcvtralStates,
With each other, and with that of the United States:
exhibiting in Tables, the prominent features of eaoh Con
stitution, and clafftng together their molt important pro-'
vifiorts, under the several heads of 'administration ; with
Notes and Observations. By William Smith, of South
( aronna, 1. L. D and nuuiber of tlte Congress of the
United States. Dedicated to the People of the United
States.
N. IS. A few Copies printed-on an inferior paper, at
3-4thsuf a dallar. February 6 mwf
For Sale, "
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Srttoaked Herring in barrels and keg<
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or single one
Dry Cedfilh, from one to fifty kentals
Fine and coarse Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the stone
and ground, for manure and stucco-work
December i tthfef
To be fold,
The time of a Mulatto Girl,
WHO has to years to serve, and is now about 17 years
old. She is a hearty, llrong gill, and can have the
belt of recommendations from her owner,
Apply »! N'o. no LV.on-ftreet, next to the comer of 4th
" r - 4t - Febtuar* IS ft & t^t
Canal Lottery, No. II
Scheme of a Lottery, authorized bv ji,\a ' ■ ,
"Anad to enable the Prefide*t and Mam cn " t,e 4
Schuylkill and Sufq ue ha\ ', navigation .
way of Lottery, the film T F our Hundred Th f
Dollars, for the purpose of completing the works in
their acts of incorporation mentioned."
I Prize of twenty thousand dollars
I of ten thousand dollars, ' , 3>
S of four thousand dollars each t 10,090
be paid to the pofleiTors of the five
numbers firft out. of the wheel on the lift
day s drawing, at which time there (ball
not be Icis than 500 numbers undrawn, 10 ooa
10 of two thousand dollars each, , '
20 of one thousand dollars cach»
43 "f five hundred dollars each, iiT°
100 of two hundred dollars each, ,' 500
100 of one hundred dollars each, 03
2zo of" fifty dollars each, : t °' oaa
29,500 of fiye dollars each, ' oo ®
' 1 47>509
30,000 Tickets at tea dollars each, ~ 30^009
Six dollars for each ticket will only be
the tune of sale. v
All prizes shall be paid ten-days after the drawine i«
fimihed, upon the demand ol ;hc pofiefTorof a fortunate
ticket, subject to a deduaion of fifteen per cent.
Such prizes as are not demanded within ,1 month,
after the . Drawmg is finilhed of whic/ public notice
will be given, (hall be conhdercd a» reliiiouiihed i or
the life of the Canal and applied accordingly.
At a mesting of the l'refident and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Stifquehanna Canal Navigation— and
the President «d Managers of the Delaware and
bchuylkili Canal,
Relolv.dThatJoleph Ball, John Steinmctz, Stan.
difti Fordc, Francis Well,. James M'Crea, John Mil
ler, junr. and Willi,im Montgomery be a committee
to arrange and direA . the mode of dil'pofim- of the
tickets ; which committee (hall deposit the money in
Bank, to be carried to the credit of an Jcount to be o.
' pened for the Lotrery.
At a meeting of thq Canal Board, held January 16, '97
ktfolved, '1 bat the committee for conducting the
Lottery be directed to commence {he .drawin.- cn th<- t
fjrit day of March next.
ExtraiS from the minutes,
Wm. M. Smith, Secretary.
Jofepb Ball,
jobn Sisinmelz,
Siandifh Forde, |
FrancTs Wejl, Manageri.
'fumes M'Crea,
' Johu Miller, jun.
IVilliam "Montgomery,
Jan. 28. th&f.tf
City of Washington.
Scheme of the No* 11, for the improvement
of the Federal City.
A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, Sc} .
dwcliing-houfe, 5 cafll 305000, are ) s® ; o° Q
i ditto 15,000 Sc. cask 25,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 Sc cafn 15,000 ,30,000
1 ditto 10,000 Sc caih 10,000 20,000
x ditto 5,000 Sc eafti 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,c00 Sc cash 5,000 10,000 j
1 ca(h prize of lo,(^ad
a do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000 •
so do. 1,000 ' - - 10,000
30 do. 500 - -
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
200 do. 50 - • i o,ooa
400 do. 45 - 10,000
5,000 So. 20 - 26,000
15,00© do. xo - ifo,ooo
16,739 Prizes.
33,261 ftlanks.
50,600 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
TickdtSj .he prize of 40,000 dollars Will be the l drawa
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
Aud approved notes, feouring payment in either morwy
or prizes, in ten alter drawing, willie received for
any numbcrnot less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an fpccimen of the pr>
vate buildings to be ert&ed in the City of Wafhingron —
Two .beautiful dcfigns are already felecfied for the entire
Iroutvon two of the public squares; from these prawings
it ispropofed to ereel two centre aud four comer buildings,
as fpon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the niannerdefcribed in the scheme for thfc Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
the neceuary expenses of printing, the turpi us
Will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
Ueiverfifcy, ta be creeled within the city of Waftington.
J'hereal securities given for the payment of
are held by the President and two Directors <sf the Bank
cf Colombia, and are valued at more half the a
mount oi the lottery.
SAMUEL ELODGET.
Tickets may he had at the Bank of Colombia ; of
James Weft BlCo. Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, Boflon ;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Well*
Cooper's Ferry. eo
Will be Sold, by Public Vendue,
On the gth of March next,
A PLANTATION,
IN Ridley tovvnlhip, Delaware county, state ol Penn
sylvania, eleven miles from Philadelphia, anJ onefron}
the great road leading*thence to Cheiler ; containing out
hundred and twenty-three acres, twenty-three oi whick
are woocijand, and eighteen meadow. On the premiie*
there are, a dwelling-house, barn, and other oyt-houfes,
in good repair ; a good fpringof water close to the houle,
und a fine ilream of water runs through the prtmiiea; by
which pa*t of(the meadow is watered, &c.
ALiO,
On the fame day, the stock on the said farm ; confid
ing of horfes,-cows, (heep,.hogs, ;&c. A cart, plough,
harrow, and other farming utcnfils ; aifo a large coppcr
ili 1, with the household and kitchen furniture, among
which are beds and bedding, an eight day clock, ana ma
ny other articles too tedious to mention.
Thefale to begin at ten o'clock in the forenoon, where
the conditions will be made known, and attendance given
on the premife§, by CUR'TIS LIiJVIS.
Ridley, February 13 *4 —tthi tM9
Partnerihip dilTolved.
TH-IS is to notify the Publie, and all persons concerned,
that the Partnerihip of BLACK 55" "WELLS,
ers in DryCoods, wasdiiTolvedthe firfl of January lait.
ROBERT 2JLACK.
Philadelphia, February 14, 1797 1 -3 W
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO
" —No. 1'9 —
CHESSU T-S TK B E T.
Il'rirc Eight Dollars p«r Annum.;