of tjjc Witlim Sits 0, a ND Philadelphia Daily Advertiser,
Nv:vi'jer 1565 j
AUCTION.
Stated Saks
For DRT GOOD S.
f' Forenoon—F.d-vard Fox, No. 5&,
mr , ) fsuth Front-street,
oni ay . Afternoon—Footman &. Co. No. 6j
South Front-street.
Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
w- rj , J Auilion, No 73 fr>utii Front-Jlreet.
"J °) \ Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
183 High-ftreef. .
n,rTJ„ S r.' t no.o-E4.v„d Fo>,
J J I Aftemoo^ —John Connelly.
V A \ Forenoon—Williaia Shannon.
rl ) Afternoon—John Connelly.
SatHrday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
"For HAMBURGH,
r I~'HE Copper Bottomed Ship
A FAVORITE, John
Mafter, now at
Plight's wharf, and will be rea
*' N dy to take in on Monday next,
part or her cargobeing engaged
and reidy to go on board. The (hip is so vvellM
known, that it is.needless to describe her. She
is now in compleat order. For Freight or Pas
sage, please to apply at Mr Jeremiah Warder's
Compting House, No. 12, North Third street,
®r to the Master on bord. •
August jo. *
For SALE,
On board the faidShip, Swedilh Iron, aflbrte i
Hollow and Window Glass, Demyjohns, Wrap
ping Paper for Sugar Reficers, Rugs of I h. *
Quality. Please to apply as above.
wf&in4W
White Havanna Sugar.
1461 boxes ■> of very fuperiar quality.now difcharg
-7? hhds. ( the {hip Hamburgh Packet,
at, Walnut Strett wharf—and forfale by
Philip Nicklin iff Co.
N. b. '
THE SUIP
Hamburg Packet,
Silas Swain, Master,
Sale, or Charter.
Aug. 14. eotf
COMMISSIONERS' SALES,
Commiftioners of the'counties ofLy-
X coming and Northumberland, have given
notice that they intend to proceed to the sale of
lands, for the arrearage of taxes, on the 7th of
September next.
»£s" The different printers in this city will
render an efleimal service to a great number of
individuals Dy pubhlhing this notice.
Aug. 18.
FOR SALE,
BRETAGNES in cases ' 4
German Checksin do.
Cambrick
Plattillas
Oznabrigs
Gold and silver Watches
Window Glass toby 8
Glass Tumblers in cases
Linseed Oil in caiks, <tc. &e.
George Petmock,
103, High-Strat.
J«?y 5- -V' w
NOTICE.
IF Thedv O'Hara, whofome years fineekept
Scho®l at the Nine Bridges, Que£n's County, Eaf-
Maryland, be living, he is hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the R«v. Ambrose
Marfhai, near Warwick, Cecil County, Eastern
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will receive iu
terefting information.
Augitji 4. mw&f-iw
THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREEN LEAV,
HEREBY give notice, that they have disposed
of the property assigned to them for the Securing
the payment of the note--, acceptances, and en
dotfenients given by Edward Fo.\, for the use
ef the feid James Greenleaf; and the holder! of
such notes, acceptances, and endorsements, are
hereby notifyed fubferibers will fettle
with them lor the amount of their refpeiflive
ulaims, both principal and interest, at
any time before the 2eth day of Oflober next;
after which day, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of aflign
ment-
Applications to be made at foutb-eaft corner
of Dock and Second streets (the Dock-street
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
•lock every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tho. W. Franett,
John Miller, Jun.
John AJhley,
'Jacob Baiter. *
Philadelphia, AaguA 18, 1797. d
The Inhabitants of the Diftrid
cf Southwark,
A RE informed tliat a Coachee is provided, to be
/i kept at the Constables* office, the north east
eerncr of Front and Almond streets, where the
friends of those sick persons who deflre to be re
moved to the City Hospital, arc rcqueftcd to make
application—Also, a Hearfc will be kept in readi
fiefs for the reiu*val of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
H.B. The Poor, who wifli to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may be furnilhed with ordea
by applying ns above. Aug. 29
Imported in the latelt arrivals from
Amftcrdam and Hatnburg, Jand forfale by
B. y J. Bohlen,
A large ajortment of fine French Cambrics,
p[ at ilias RuffiaindDutch i'ailcloth
Bfittannias Writing, port, and print-
Rouanes inR paper
Brown Holland Dutch calf fkn*
Checks and stripes Prime madder
Tirklenburgs Shell'd Barley
Oznahurgs Looking glaffer
White (heetings Hollow glaft ware
Diaper Slates
Brown rolls Coffee mills
Umbrellas Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and straw knives
Biackesnd whitelaces Tovs assorted in boxes
Be ft Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Madeira Wine
July J4. ' m&thtf
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 14, 1797
This Day Publiihed,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second ana Chefnut streets,
Price 3-8/fo of a Dollar,
• Qbfervations on certain Documents
Contained i* No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which t)v charof. or speculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Skchetarv of |li4 Triasur, is FULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BY UIMS RI P.
This publication prefentt a concise statement
ef the base means pra&ifed by the Jacobins of the
United Snjfes to asperse the chara<slers of those
persons who are conlidered as hostile to their disor
ganizing schemes. It also (Contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Meflrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, ©n the fub
jed of the documents aforefaid, and a series cf let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt,
that the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring conspiracy on the part
of the latter aid his aflociates to extort money.
A dilcount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ot whoicfale purcttafcrs, for
gash. Orders to be addrcfiW to Vlr Yowno.
Augufi 15.
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of SecoHd and Arch Streets, io
Philadelphia, every Tut/ctay, Thursday, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the irornins;; arrives at Do
ver the fir ft day, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the palfengcrs find
a fate and oomfortabie packet to convey than to
Norfolk.
A packet leave* Norfolk for Northampton fmry,
every Tuelday, ThurHay and Saturday,, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Mon«ay, Wcdnefday and Friday ;Jputsup at Snow
Hill the firft niirht, at Dfcver the »d night, and ar
tives in PhilaJnphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles left than on any stage route
between those places.
Too much cannot be f»id in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
paflenger, who, after having performed this route,,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
diftanee, so good a road in America.
August 11. dim.eotf.
Philadelphia, Istb July, 1797.
NOTICE is hereby given, that separate j»ro
pofals with sealed covers will be rectived
at my office until the elevenfli day of September
next, to furflifh by contrail the following ar
ticles for the use of the Army of the Unit«!
States in the year 1798.
First ContraA for
8 Sergeants coats
2 Musicians, do.
10 Sergeants vests S Dragoons.
116 Privates costs
116 Privates vests J
64 Sergeants eoats
Musicians, do.
gi Sergeants vests
192 Woolen overalls Artillerist*
192 Linen overalls &
936 Privates coats Engineers.
Q3& do. vests
1871 Woolen overalls
1871 Linen do.
144 Sergeants coats
7t Musicians, do.
»t6 Sergeants vests
432 Linen overalls
431 Woolen do. Infaßt+y.
1893 Privates coats
189 a do. vests
3784 Woolen ovtralls
3784 Linen do.
ift Contrail, for 1188 Sergeawts (hirre
11816 Privates do.
11600 Socks
ad Contrafl, for 37a pair leather breeches
3d Contrail, for pair hoots
j 4600 pair ihoes, No. I
8000 pair do. No. 2
4th Contrad, for 1031 Artilleriflaand Engi
* neers haw
1108 Infantry do.
136 Dragoon caps
The wholt to be delivered at the city of Phila
delphia, viz.
One fourth on or before the 13th dajr of Fa
bruary next.
One fourth »n or before the xjth tl*y of A
pril next.
The remaining half on or before the 15th day
of June next.
The articles are to be agreeable to ftich pal
terns as shall be direfted by the Secretary for the
Department of JVar. »
Payments to be made as soon as the article
(hall be delivered, and palled infpeilion.
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyed
entiuhSep.
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chests of a superior quality—Also,
100 do. of Hyson,
Imported in the Woodrop Sims, and for sale by
the fubferibers, corner of Second and Pine
street.
C. Haight.
June Hi eetf
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-ftr&t,
r Hyson
Hyson Skin CtEAS
Young Hyson (
Jr/iperial J
April 20.
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufaftured as usual,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barky
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale asd Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Button Ale
Red P(»rt and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-catk or gallon—suitable
for exportation orhome consumption—-
for Sale by
John Hawortb.
No.9Sfouth Frer.t itreit
By John Fenno, N a 119 Chefnut Street.
Five Hundred Dollars Reward.
A ROB BERT.' ,
ftibfcriber's dwcl itig houlc, in Chefnut-
L street, was broken open fame time since Fri
day last, and plundered of property, the value of
which cannot as yet be afcertained k The robber;
gained admiflion by breaking open a window shut
ter in the second flory of the back part of the house,
and afterwards forced alnwft eveiy lock therein.
The above reward will be paid kr the re(lor.ition
of such property as they may havi taken, orpro
portionably for any part thereof, and a profectition
of the perfoivor p< rf«»s concerned to conviction.
JONATHAN MEREDITH.
S?'pt T2. - dtf
LOS T,
ON the PafTyunk Head, between tho Blue Ball
and the city, a Fowling Piece, with a brass
batrel and silver fight; o*|he plate ot tbebuttaie
the letters " Jamaica, —and on the barrel
near the lock '■ Londitf' and the Tower stamp.
Whoever will return the aid piece to johrr B.'tmarJ,
at thefign of the Blue Ball on the Puffyunk Road,
or the oftice of thii Gazette, shall receive a reward
of Four French Crowns,
Sept. ijj. *lt
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
I 'H «.T to an ait of Congress sf the
X United States of America, passed at Phila
delphia, the 28th day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ties on Carria;ei, for the conveyance of perfom,
which shall be kept by or for any person, for his
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of palfecgers, thu several duties and
rates following, to wit :
For and upon every Coach, 15 dels.
Upon every Chariot, I a tlols.
upon every Poll Charitx, H dots,
upon every Poll Chaise, 11 doK
upon every Phteton, with or without top,
9 dols.
upon every Coachee, 9 doll,
upon other Carriages, having pannelwork
above, with blinds, glades or curtains,
9 dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, having fra
med posts and tops with steel fprtogs, 6
dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages,with wood-
iron springs or jacks, 3 dels,
upon Curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or
iron springs, 3 dols.
For and upon ell other two wheel carriages, 1 dole,
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed posts and tops, and resting up
on wooden spars, 2 dols.
The Collectors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
rey of the Diftri& of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September next, for
the putpofe of receiving the duties 011 Carriages, at
Germantown; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efq.
in the County of Montgomery; and at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ;
of which all persons poflefled of such Carriages are
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will be grant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the bufi
nefs.of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty g»llon» and one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities thau to gallons, at
the fame rime and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally autliorifed to grant luch licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infperftor of the Revenue of the Grfl. fuf
vey of tiff DiftriA of Pennsylvania.
Office of InfpetSion at ">
Germantow, nth Sept. 1797' i
IMPO R T E D
Iu the (hip America, James Bwing, matter, from
Hamburgh,
Brown Htftands
White Piatillas
Ticklciibwrgs
Coarfc Linens
Tapes
Looking Olatl'es \ .
Glass Tumblers f
'ton sale sr
George Pennock.
Auiufl 14. 3*w
All elegant House in Arch Street *
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and elen-ant house at the Corner of Afch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and sne dining room—the largest is 31 feet by
6 —and two are so conne&ed by folding doi>r<
a s to make but one. Also, Sve bed rooms, he
des j in the garret, well finiihed for lervants.
There are stables and a coach house, with evry
convenience Cor a family. Enquire at No, 49,
in NoVth Seventh street, or at No. ziS, .Arch
Street.-
A ur. I[. iaw;w.
PETER BORGER,
INFORMS his friends and the public in general
that he has removed from No. 119, corner of
Arch and Fourth, to No. 105 North Front, be
tween Arch and Racu streets*
July >»■ aaw4w
Rofs & Sim/on,
HAVi FOk SALE
r Hogftieads,
Excellent Coffee in < Tierce*, and'
C. Barrels. ,
A small pircel of nice cocoa in bags
A few puncheons Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior Tcneriffec wine<old and in Madeira pipes
An invoice of jewcUery.and hosiery to be (old by
the package
A few hampers b«ft EnglWi ch^efe.
July 2J. dtf.
Insurance Company of North America .
THE Stockholders in this company are here
by informed, that, pursuant to the fifth
clause of their Charter, and at the request of a
" Number of Stockholders, vwho, together, are
proprietors <jf Six Thouland Shares, and up
ware?," a genera} meeting of the Stoskholders
will be held at the Company's Office, on Mon
day the 25th ,day of September next, at 11
o'clock, A. M. for the purpose of filling up a
vacancy in their Direif:.on ; and »aking*into
consideration such Regulations or Bye Laws as
may be in cpnformity with the Char
ter of Incorporation.
EBEN. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
July wWtS»S
fnfurance of the State
of Pennfvlvania.
i \
THE Office will be kept until further- notice at
the School House in Germantown. The
Company &i!l retain the room iii Chefnut, above
Seventh street, wkere a ptrfoii will attend td re
ceive and give answers to applications, every day
from 10 until 1 o'clock.
s i'Pt-i3,- 43tiawtf
Bank of North America, <
September Btb, 1797-
OV Monday next the Notice* for all Notes or
Bills payable at this Bank, which fall due en that
aad the eafuiag 6 days, will be fcrved on the Pay
ers: And the like Notices on every Monday, till
the further orders of the Direflqrs.—Perfons wish
ing to depont Notes or Bills for Collection, which
arc to fall due within the week, null tlemfelvJ
undertake to give notice to the Payers. dtf £
TO BE SOLD,
And immediate poffejjion given,
A Convenient well finifhed Brick Tenement,
witha cook house and other eut houses.situ
ated ilia pleasant part of the borough of Wilming
ton, in of Delaware—The lot cf ground
has forty feet front on Weft-flreet, and extends
through the square to Pafture-ftrect, on which is
ereoled a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'I.ANE.
Wilmington, Aug. 33.
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, .by the brjg Iris, capt Rhodes, from
Oporto,
Red Port Wine in pipes,hhds. and quarter caiks
6c cwt. Cork, for sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
Jcly tr. §
The Partnerlhip,
UNDER the firm of FRF.EMAN Company,
is difiolved by mutual conftnt. All pei tuns,
having any demands against the said House are do
firod to render tfie lame to T. B. t'recmanand
those indebted to theHoufe are desired to make pay
ment to him—By whom business will in future be
tarried on, at his Store, No. 39, South Front-ftreefc
Augufi 7. »od4w
NOTICE.
ALL those who have any claims against We
estate of Johm Cole,Umbrolla Maker, late
deceased, will apply within a month from the date
hereof, to Mrs. Cole, at the south east corner of
Green and Second streets, for their arrangement.
N. B. If all demands are not sent in before the
expiration of the abovementioned time, they will
not be allowed, as his property will be disposed of.
Sept. 9. *3t
Imported inthefhipMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Shewbll, Master,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
No. 11 Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy
Irish market claret in cafe» I Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatreyd.
WHO HAS FOR/ SAIB.
Sherry Wiue in pipes and quarter casks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bulhels Liverpool salt. (
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
A PERSON OF INGENUITY, lately arrived
from Europe, wishes to find here a place in
the quality of a Direflor of a Glafs-houfc, Chryf
tal of all kinds, having particular means for the
conftruflion of the kilns, pots, &c. and polfcfling
likewise the articles used in the Glals houses of
England and France, having worked a long while
in most of them. Every exertion will be made to
render the manufactory deserving of public appro
bation—He, who wHhes to foeak to hiin,will find
him at No. 27s Frc*t-ftte«t.
Aupift 14. *4'
Fs>r sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot qf Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-euft corner of Wal
nut am' Fifth flreets, fronting the State-
House square. Thii lot it filty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Alfa, for Sale,
three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wfiirf, &c. situate «n
Water-street, between Mulberry and SafTafras
streets, containing in front on Water ftraet fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadttt east
ward nineiy-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thele houses
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very defiralile fixa
tion for a merchant* flour fa<flor,or others who
m4y have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
forcalh. For further information apply to the
printer.
July ,>i. m&wtf
The Subscriber has for Sale,
A large afTortment of India Muslins,
coarse and fine
India Calicoes
Sooty Romalls
B'ue Cloths and Chcclc»
Bandanna Hindkerchief#
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irish Linfcu* and fcheekingt, well
affortcd
A box of Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
Two bokes of fine Spices, cotaining NtJtme§«,
Mace and Cloves
Black Pepper of firft quality
East India Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wind
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimfto&e
Mordccai Lewis.
Au£UJl 11.
Cedar Shingles.
fubferiber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar
X Shingles of a superior quality, for sale at 13
dollars pur thousand.
William Hallow ell,.
No. 193 North Third-jlreet.
July ij, tout
.Thomas Herman Leupfer,
North Fifth ftrect* corner of North alley., No. 34,
HAS FOR SALE,
I EXCELLENT red Boyrk-anx Wine incaf.sani
-i boxes, {is \c4rs olj
Whitu Gravc-s Wine in calks
Tk'klrjibiirgs
Russia-Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck
Ba;f Linen
Hedhins
Diup»r ind Table CIoiU
Empty bajry"
Cuminioii 'tJcrmari Cloth
An assortment oT black cofeiirei Ribbons
Fine German Laces
A bout twelve tons Russia clean Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap., in small boxes, for family tifs
Window Glass 39 —atgf
THIS DAY was PUBLi?iH£L),
And for (ale by THOMAS DO.HSON, at the
Stone House, No. 41, south Second (Irest,
EVENINGS at HOME;; *■»
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Coafifting of a variety ©f Mifccliaiieous Pieces for
the inflru&ion and arjufcroent of YOUNG PEIjL-
S(^NS —Six Volumes hatidfomely prlntedaad bound
up in two volumes, price • wo Dollars.
The variety and excellence of thtfj pieces are
itich, that the book needs anly to be known sco b»
universally efleemed one of the mod valuable pub
lications th t can be put iiTt® the hau<?s ©f young
p«rfons.
44 Delightful task to rear the tender thought,
To "teach the you ft g idea how tu (hoot,
To frefh inllru&ion o'er the mini,
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit'and to fix
Theganerous purpose in the gl©winjjf breast."
Thomsois.
August 2£. mwf4W
,THIb D.aY IS PUBLISHED,
By TiIOMAS DOBSON, at the Stone Houfa,
No. 41, south Second ftroet.
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Ladin, on Sir.proving and iiv
tcrefting I'ubjeAs.
-TraFiflated from the Dutch of Madame de Camion
with alterations and improvements,
Printed on fne paper, and neatly hound,
Price one hilar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales »f extraordinary iiftrtfs, or of defperat* or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," an 4
which it would be for the honor of young'latdics (A
be ignorant of, this little book comas forward to io
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex«
cecding the bounds of real life, the proper, begauft
elegant and natnnal dignity and importance of the Female
charader is exhibited in an intending point of view,
and prefeits examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publisher was so much pleased with the per*
sal, that he was persuaded he Ihould do a pleafmj
service to the community by fending it in'o circu
lation. August 24 —mw4w
To Majlers and Pilots br'tnging up Vejf'ls
from Foreign Ports to this City.
"1 TTHereas sundry infringements have lately been
VV made on the laws of this (late for the pre"
venting pestilential or infectious diseases, eithe*
from ignorance or inattentioa thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publilh the following en
trants from the laws of aid April, 1794, 7th aa4
Bth feAiom:
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794.
EtetraSt of an aJt for ftturing the eity and pert
of Philadelphia from the introdvWon tf pefii
lential and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And be it further enatfted, that every
matter or captain of any (hip or vessel eomkig from
foa (vessels actually employed n the loading trade
exeppted) and bound to any port or place within
the juriidiflion of Pemfylvania,(ha:i cause hislhip
or velfel to be brought to anchor,or othcrwife (lav
ed in the (tream of the river Delaware, oppefit* to
the Health-Office an State-IfUnd aforefaid, and
' there to remain until he shall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of heal h from the Resident Hhy
fician. And it, previsully to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any matter or captain (hall
fuffer his (hip or veflel to appri »eh neartr than the
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
(ball land, cause er fuffer to be landed, or breughs
oo thore, at any f ace or port withiu this Corn
mbnwealth, or at any other port or place, with the
intent ol being conveyed Into this Commonwealth,
any person or perfous, or any goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving- such bill of health
0. certificate, he (hall negUet or refufe to deliver
the sam- to the Health-Oiliecr, such mallflroT cap
tain (hall forfeit pay, for each endevery fuA
1 c fence, the furp of hive hundred dollars.
And.the captain or mailer of every (hap or Vef
lel (hall fend a f*fe and commodious boat to bring
the physician on board, and (hall ift like manner
convoy him back to the Health-Office, aftcr'he has
concluded his official examination; And while he
ii malting such examination, or in rase any fubfc»
■quant examination by the Health Officer or Con
fulling Physician, agreeably to the dxe&ion3 of
this a&, the matter or captain shall expole or caute
to be exposed to thefeanh of the Resident Phyfi
cian,or of the Health Officer and Ccnfultjng Physi
cian (as the cafe may be) each and every part of the
(hip or vessel, and (hall present to his view eaeh
and every person or person s on board thereof, and
and shall also true and fatisfaCtory an(wers,mak«
to all such queltions 4s the Resident Physician, &o.
at the time of examination shall alk relative to the
health of any pow or place frem which the ship or
veflfel failed, or has since touched at—the uumber
of persons onboard when the (hip or vessel entered
■on her voyage—the number of persons that have
ftnee been landed or taken 011 board, and when
and where refpeitively—what perlon. on board—
s they have been during the voyage, or (hall, at
the time of examination, be infected with any pef
tilehtial or contagious disease and what is the pr»-
sent (late and condition of the perfoos on board!
with rcfpc& to their health or difeales. And i£
aay matter or captain shall refufe to expose as afore
aid, to the feareh of any of the officers aforclaid,
n if he (hall conseal any sick j/erjon, or in any other man
ner deceive the proper officers aforefaid in in
uch captain or matter, for every luch offence, Dial!
forfeit and pay the sum of five hundred doi
1. A as.
Sect. 8. And if any person or persons whatfo
ever-"(tlie Resident Physician, &c. excepted) (hall
go 011 board any vessel, before the mailer thereof
has.received a certificate of health in the mauner
direfted, every person so o(funding, (hail pay tiie
um of ONE lIVNDHED DOLLARS.
IT beiflg aifohitely necessary that the foregoing
fijclions Ihould be punctually cqmplied with, th«
fubferiber, in compliance with his duty, muff ex
aS a rigorous observance of the (ante, or clfe be
nnd<M tlk» necefllty of putting the laws in (one.
W*. Ai.-L.kN, Health Officer of the
Port of PU'Uadelphia.
July 14.
£Volume Xll.%\)tCsasc;tc. ;•
va
Philadelphia, ,
THtTKSDAY EVENING, September 14.
/' Btirlingtoti, Sept. 12th, 1797. A
/ MR. f-ENrto, \
OBSERVING in Brown's paper of
pth, and Claypoole's of the 7th inft. a falfe|
and unfounded publication, refle&ing on the} cc
people of this city, refpedting two vefTels sla
arriving here, after laying two or three days |v«
St the fort—that the people rose in a mass, "co
cut them from the wharf, and obliged them tl
to drop below the town upon pain of being tn
fired at. The Pilgrim, captain Smith, then d
at the wharf, was requested to haul off for ti
two days, when she returned and discharged ft
her cargo : th? schooner Eutaw, Captain it
Brewfter, was ordered to lay off till her tl
quarantine was out, which she should have h
done at fort Mifflin. • b
There was no rising of the people; and if a
the captain or owners are men of truth, they f
will not fay to the reverse. No doubt the
people here were uneasy, that the reudent v
physician there should permit vefTels from , c
the Wpft-Indies to come here to finifh their
quarantine.
A PHILADELPHIA)!#
AUTHENTIC.
Litter of the Mayor of Burlington to Governor
Mijfiin, and the Governor's answer.
Burlington, > Sept. \th, 1797- t
sir, ! <
THE anxiety of the inhabitants of this j
town has been for some days considerably ,
exfcited by a cireumftance which they can- 1 j
not but consider as contrary to the iuteri- ! ]
tio of the legislature of the state over which ,
you preside, and of the letter, as well as ,
spirit of your proclamation of the 15th of ]
August last, which evinces so prudent an at- ]
tention to the health of the citizens of Penn- ]
fylvania, that the corporation of Burlington,
on whose behalf I have the honor to address
you, rely on your assistance in preventing ,
the introduction of contagious disease into
the state of New-Jersey, by any evasion or \
mifconftruftion of the laws of Pennsylvania,
on which we have hitherto relied for pro
tection from the awful calamity.
Two vefTels, now lying at our wharves,
have arrived in this port, without comply
ing with the diredtions of your proclama
tion—The brig Pilgrim, one of those vefTels
from Port au Prinee, (both the captain and
mate of which died, as we are informed, of
a contagious disease in the Weft-Indies,)
laidfive or fix days at the fort, when the reji
dent physician permitted her to depart, having
ten paifcngers aboard, on the mere afTurance
of the captain and owner that she would pro
ceed to this plnce. We apprehend the words
of your proclamation admit of no discretion with
refpeff to any vessel coming from the Wjl-Indies,
but absolutely requiring ten days quarantine.—
From the annexed *copy of a letter from
dodtor Mease to captain Smith, a discretion
appears to have been exercfed, and as we learn
from the captain on the mere afTurance of
the owner that she not go to Phila
delphia, although it evidently appears from
her papers and by the acknowledgement of
the master that she was bound for that pojrf.
The schooner Eutaw, captain Brewfter,fft>m
Cape Francois, the other of those veffcls,
performed but four days quarantine, and ar
rived here at the fame time with the Pil
grim, captain Smith. We do not learn
that the captain has any written permission
from the resident phyfic'un at the fort, to
proceed hither. Several of the late Phila
delphia papers contain the following para
graph : " The schooner Eutaw, Brewfter,
from Cape Francois, has gone up to Bur
lington to finifh her quarantine." Whether
this permiflion of the resident physician pro
ceeds from an exercise of discretion, or from
an opinion that the laws of Pennsylvania do
not admit of his detaining a vessel when a
verbal assertion is made by an owner or cap
tain, in opposition to her papers, that she
is bound to a pott in New-Jersey, as has been
hinted by the captains now here, we con
ceive it in no other light, than an evasion of
the law, which will, if tolerated, fruflrate
the intention of the legislature, and may
possibly be attended with fatal consequences
to us. We have been induced to lay this
matter be'fore you, fir, from a confidence
that it will receive from you that attention
which with pleasure we observe has been ex
tended towards the proper means of prevent
ing the introduction and increase of this
deftrudtive disease, and we are the ftiore so
licitous that early and decisive measures be
adopted, as we learn that several other ves
sels are daily expected here.
• At the fame time that a faithful discharge
of our duty dictates the propriety of adopt
ing every prudent measure for the fafety of
our fellow citizens, be assured, fir, that we
are affeCted by the mofl lively sympathy at
the reflections excited by the misfortunes
of the citizens of Philadelphia, many of
whom are connected with us by the strongest
ties < f affedtion and friendfhip. To those
of them, amounting to several hundreds,
who have chosen this place as.an asylum,
we (hall feel pleasure to afford every accom
modation in our power, and we are persuad
ed that it is uimeceft.ry to urge their fafety,
as an additional inducement to the adoption
of the molt speedy precautions to prevent
a future evasion of your laws, and ensure
our own fafety.
With the highest respeCt,
I have the honour to be
Your excellency's mod obedient servant,
By order of the corporation,
JOSEPH BLOOMFIELD,
Mayor of the city of Burlington.
* Captain Smith,
I feud vou a letter fiom your owner, Mr.
Gerard : 'he desires you will proceed to
Burlington immediately, and he will go oa
- board at Kcnfmg.toi), if the tide carries yau
so far ; you may, therefore, get under way. JS
If you do not reach |the city, yon are not J
to land any of your paffer.gers on the Pennsyl
vania fide, at that'will fubjedt you to a fine.
Yours,
' J AS. MEASE,
0 Pelident Physician of the Port, j 4
August 31, 1797. of
th
Sir, 1 £
I have the honor to acknowledge the re-
ccipt of your letter dated yesterday, and to t ;
lament the occasion of the alarm, which it li,
. very justly expresses, in consequence of a ci
condufl on the part ofihe Resident Physician of 1
the Health Office of Philadelphia, that is, in ; j.
my opinion, highly irregular. I have j
directed an enquiry to be immediately infti- t;
tuted into the circumstances of the two cab
fes, to which your letter refers ; and you
may aflureour fellow-citizens of New-Jersey,
that any meafura which endangers their {j
health or distresses their feelings, can never h
be fanftioned by the laws of Pennsylvania, «
and will, as far as my power extends, be ef-
fedtually prohibited, ;l
Accept my best thanks for the sympathy '
with which you deplore the affliction of the
» citizens of Philadelphia, and believe me to
be, with great consideration and esteem, i
Sir, I
Your most obedient, humble servant,
THOMAS MIFFLIN, f
Philadelphia, sth Sept. 1797. ,
To fofeph Bloomfield, Esq. f
Mayor of th: City of Burlington. I
i
A bye law of the corporation of the ci- '
ty of Burlington, ordains, " that every ,
! captain or master of any veflel coming to the i
1 port of Burlington from sea, (vefTels actually
employed in the coasting trade excepted) '
' j shall on his arrival, cause his veflel to be '
" brought to anchor, or otlierwife stayed in
1 . the stream of the river Delaware, and there
1 remain, until the physician of the port shall
have examined into the state of the veflel,
her crew and pafTengers, and permission shall
" be given to approach the wharves of fa id city.
' " That no permission to haul to Bny
5 wharf or to land any of the crew, pafTengers
> or goods from on board any veflel shall be
1 given until such captain Or matter shall pro
r duce a certificate or written evidence of such
» veflel having performed the quarantine re
" quired by the laws of Pennsylvania—that in
ill cases, where there is no evidence produc.
» ed of the quarantine prescribed by the laws
" of Pennsylvania, having been complied with ;
" the Mayor of the city on report of the
3 fame, shall order and dir*Ct the time for
1 which such veflel shall perform-quarantine in
this port, before permission shall be given to
) lie at any wharf, or for the landing of any
" of the crew, pafTengers or goods from on
J board said veflel ; provided, that in no cale,
' a shorter quarantine shall be allowed than
■ that prescribed by the existing laws of Penn
s fylvania."
I certify the foregoing to be a true ex
« trait from the ordinance pasTed Sept. 6,
" 1797, for the security of the city of Bur
n lington against the introduction of centagi
n ous diseases.
n Ab : Gardiner, Clerk
of the Corporation.
Mr. Fenno, \
With a view of inspiring confidence-^ in
n blood-letting, in the cure of the yellow ft
j, ver, I take this method of informing mj \
r- fellow citizens, that I loft during my lat|
1. attack of that fever, 176 ounces of blood by
n twenty two bleedings in ten days. The effi
,n cacy of this valuable remedy was aided by
o frequent and copious evacuations from my
n_ bowels, and a moderate salivation. Thro*
i- the blessing of heaven upon the above re«ii
r, dies lam now, and have been, in a state of
r- rapid convalescence for several days, and
cr poflefs much tiiore strength than could be
0- expe£ted by those who have not witnefled
m the effefts of such rejnedics.
[o I cannot conclude t"his short communica
a tion to my fellow citizens without expressing
p. my obligations to my kind friends Dr. Rush
ie and Dr. De Wees, for their affectionate and
:n vigilant attendance upon me: Also to Dr.
n- Coxe and Dr. Otto, for their occasional
of and friendly visits: and to my pupils, Mr.
te May and Mr. Chalwill, for the Angular ten
iy dernefs and care with which they nursed me,
es night and day, during the whole of my ill
iis ness.
ce PHILIP SYNGPHYSICK.
sn 12th Sept. 1797.
X- "
From the Philadelphia Gazette.
lis / "
r o- j Mr. Brown,
be lAs there are various exaggerated reports
: f. /n circulation in the city, and as there is con
i'fiderable alarm created in the Northern Li
ge berties, relative to the existence and rage of
3 t- the Yellow Fever on board of the frigate U
of nited States, we request that you willpub
we lifh the following true statement :
at One marine died on the morning of the
its iothinft. one seaman was sent to the Hof
of pitalon the 11, and Mr. Loekwood, fail
eft ing master died onjthe moming of the 12 th.
>Te Lieutenant M'Crea is in a state of tonva
ls, lefcence, aad we trust that in a few days he
m, may be pronounced perfedtly free from dan
m- ger
id- We feel no folicituderelative to the speedy
ty, and perfedt eftablifhriient of health in the o
on ther three men on board, who are indifpo-
Mit fed ;no person has been attacked since Sun
ire day morning, nor have we been able to as
certain one instance on board in which the
disease can be traced with accuracy to have
been communicated from one person to ano
ther. We hope from the regulations esta
blished, and from the purification of the fri
> (rate, that no new cases wSI occur, and that
)'n. the alarm in the Northern Liberties, found
ed 011 exaggerated accounts, will subside.
JOHN GILLASPY. Surgeon.
f r . JOHN C. OTTO,
to * Consulting Physician.
on Frigate United States* 7
au September 13. J
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE. Jagai
LONDON, July i.f—J 6 - . . 1 fom
The difpntes which h3ve for fom<| time exifled {} ]1 p
hetween the courts of Berliii and Vienna Icem to -r
be approachiV<» to a tfrifis The sentence of the
Millie Council,"by which certain claims of the king a
of Pruffit have been let aside, the conclufum againfl eft r
the eledor of Cologne, asmafter of the Teutonic C
order, and againil tnc Imperial city of Nuremburg, w ; t ]
form the ground of a proclamation ifTued by his p
Prussian majesty. it c*nc!»*l ss with a determine
tion to attention to the sentence of the Au- G't
lie Council, and promises to pro'eel th« Imperial Fre
cities and sthers again ft any party whatever. This con
t declaration is a com: lete defiance of the A
!as head of the Germanic Body. It exhibits 'he
king of PruiEi as the rival of his power. If the
determination of the Aulic Rouncii is to be main- nag
taincd, the pretenfionsof the court of Berlin must in C
be dtfined by the force of arms. If it is given up e( J ,
the conflitution of tht Germanic Body is violated, t
and the weakinefs of the emperor conftfitd. Per- ,
haps this condu<3 of his Prussian majtily may be a r1 1
flep taken in eatftert with the French republic t® par
hasten the conclofion of a peace, Certainly the to t
emperor would be ill able to assert his rights aga : nft con
the king of Prussia, while exposed to the hostilities £
of Francs ; and on the other hand, in the pacific
arrangements which t»ke place, this very claim of _ 1
the king of Pruflia, now brought forward to in- 't v
f.uc-nce the negotiation, may afterwards be made pra
the fubjeS of amicable fettlem.-ot. <
A company of patriots to th<i numbsr of 1000 j n
in the Valteline,» frontier country of Switzerland,
have taken an oath to live free or die ill nnion |^ e
witn the Cisalpine republic. he
Letters from St. Marino, dated on the 12th ult. fev
mention, that some degree of ariftecracy had al- J n(
ways prevailed in the little republic, and that this
had hitherto been supported by the neighboring .
powers. As that w a however, not at prtfent the
cafe, the people had now determined to regain their lMi
rights j and though they might have don ■ this by to
convoking the general assembly, they preferred ou
the more tafy way, and jrefenteJ a declaration to
the council of fnty. "
The council was occupied in deliberating on the
fubje>4. and there was every reason to believt their hei
resolutions would be conformable to the wilhes of tet
the people. be
Letter* from Rone, of the iCth, fay, that the
Pope was then still alive, but that he had lor some
days loft the use of his speech, and the physicians
no longer prefcribea for him v but only paid him M
j rifits of ceremony. Pius the sixth is at the mo- T1
ment of hit death aged 81, and nothing but f, a
good conflitution could have enabled him to sup
' port the daily fits bf apoplexy with which he has
t been attacked.- The greatest alarms prevailed at OTI
, Rome refpedtinghi*fuceeffor, as the cardinals had J.
fled, and it would be impoflible to assemble a Con- th
clave. It watevan doubted whether he would not a< ]
1 be the la(l Pontiff,and whether Rome would not be
• repuklicanized at well as the re 4of Italy, ai Pla
i Sards were pasted up in fomt of the principal streets ur
of Rome, inferibed, "My kingdom is not of this lu
" world." m
July 18—19.
' On Monday lord Bridport, with the fleet tl
under hit command, failed for Torbay. ft
A letter from the Hague, dated July 8, bi
1 fay*, " All the troops destined on the in- tl
5 tended expedition are now embarked, and
we under (land that the fleet is to set fail in b;
1 eight or ten days. Rumor fays, that gen. h
' Hoche is to command the troops who arc to b
embark at Dunkirk." o:
July J 3. li
Mr. Major is the messenger who was dis
patched on Thursday evening with the an
' fwer of the Britilh cabinet to the contre-pro
je3 of the French Direflory.
111 the higher circles, it is reported the
Earl of Hard .vicke will ihortly fuccetd as
■viceroy in Ireland ; a designation wherein v
his lordship's charafter and 'abilities will re- '
fled credit upon administration. b
General Clerke, we are informed by res- \
n pedlable authority, is the son of a tradesman I
•-1 in Kilkenny, in Ireland, the tenant of a gen- ; i
j I tleman now in England. Before the- revo- ']
4 lution he was an ensign in the duke de Fitz- C
j james's regiment of the Irish brigade : be- n
i- ing a lively dashing young man, fit for their
y purposes, the Directory sent him plenipo
y tentiary to Vienna, at the period of Lord
>' Malmefbury's mission to Paris, and he has r
|. lately been a negociator with his holinefa the t
( f Pope :—fuch are the viciffitudcs of fortune g
d in this extraordinary period. li
ie The state of Portugal in 17 66, one of the a
d best works of our days, having been much n
fought after lately, and now not to be had r
I. in London, a hint has bern given to Gene- i
g ral Dumourier at Hamburgh, and a splendid f
fh new edition, with continuations, notes, &c.
d is advertised by the author. The original f
r. copy was fold for three lhillings and fix- 1
al pence, the new edition will be near a guinea, t
r. We cannot regret, however, that the whim- \
fical tafle of those who value books not for e
e, their contents, but their exterior brilliancy, c
J. will aid a genius in distress, and one of the n
best writers in Europe. t
His Majesty invited Lord Howe on Wed- j
nefday, in a very prefling manner, to spend
three or four days with him at Windsor, 1
which invitation was accepted by his Lord- 1
(hip. '
The plays at Botany Bay, it has been eb- t
ts fetved, are all tajl with much strength. How
n- can it otherwise be considered, when it is j
,i- recollefted that the Dran\ath Per/cm* confi(la 1
of of well known tried performers, and who t
J. have long boafteJ much ability In their line. 1
b- We need not add, that the audienee are com- 1
pletely transported. <
ae A fubfeription has been raised by the in
ifn habitants of Yarmouth, for the laudable pur
il- pofeof rewardingtheloyaltyofthe people be- I
h. longing to the ship Venerable and Adamant, <
a- which were the only two belonging to the I
lie North Sea fleet that took no part in the <
n- late mutiny. The sum collefted will amount
to near eleven pounds a man. 1
5y A French row-boat captured a small vef- 1
o- fel within fight of Dover morning, 1
o- Three cutters immediately put to sea in
n- pursuit of her ; but she out-failed them, and
,f. got fafe with her prize iiftder the French
he batteries.
ve A fleet of merchantmen was to fail, from
o- Lilbon for England about the 9th instant,
a- under eonvoy 01 the Inconftant,frigate, and
ri- a (loop of war. The Raven (loop of war is
at to fail for England at the fame time, and
d- is to convoy to the Britilh Ihore the very
rich Mani'laman, taken from the Spaniards.
Lord St. Vincent being lately informed
that several of the Spanish sailors, who had
been taken by him in the later engagement
with the fleet under Cordova, and liberated
on-their parole, ou condition of not serving
in any manner during the ccuk-fi cf the war it
against England, were actively employed in m
preparing the Spanish fleet for sea, and that pr
some of these were serving on board their wl
(hips, he ferit to MalTtjredo, to tell him, that y<
if any of these men so employed were taken
in arms, they would be treated in the fever- b)
eft manner prcfirfbed by the laws of war. tr
Commodore Pliilips has been dispatched g<
with eight fail of the line, of which five are ci
Portuguese, to .cruize off the ftreights of pi
Gibraltar, with the view of preventing the y<
French ships which failed from Toulon from E
coming out of the Mediterranean. If
A letter from on board Admiral Dun- tl
can's fleet, dated the 15th inft. states that a
flag of truce had been sent into the Tex el, *>
in consequence of the Dutch having captur- 'I
ed one of our fifhing boats, which was as- tl
terwards recaptured by the Ganges. The u
admiral complained of this conduct on the | tl
part of the enemy's cruizers, and threatened tl
to retaliate, if it were t«j}erated by'the Duich o
commander. He received a very polite an- ei
fwer, through one of the Dutch captains, ti
who came oh board his ship, to jfl'ure him
it was not their intention to encourage such
practices.
Great preparations appear to be making
in the Texel for the failing of the arma- c
ment in the harbour, but the transports still e
lie in the inner bason, where there are also c
several large merchant (hips, supposed to be "
Indiamen. There are said to be seventy e
five thousand men in the neighbourhood of
Amsterdam. The Britilh fleet now form a t
line at the mquth of the Texel, determined t
to attack the enemy wheneverthey may come t
out. The utmolt order end subordination '
prevail on board every (hip.
The Weftmoreland, Jamaica packet, on 1
her outward bound voyage, fell in with a ciit- <
ter privateer of 18 guns, and, after engaging i
her for a considerable time, obliged her to <
IheerofFin a very damaged condition.
A Court Martial on the mutineers of the
Montague commenced at Portsmouth, on 1
Thu#fday, on board the He£tor, in the <
harbour.
The mutineers of the above ship are now
on trial on board the Cambridge, of 80 guns.
I J.. Cole, quarter-maftcr, was brought before
• the court on Wednesday, and wished to be'
admitted to King's evidence, but from his |
' account of the proceedings 011 board the Sat
-5 urn, and various other cireumftances, it is
s supposed he will be tried with the reft of the j
mutineers.
That our readers may form some idea of
t the importance of the trade of Jamaica, we
subjoin the following account of its produce ,
» brought by the lail fleet, and entered at !
- the custom-house •• —
i 16,474 hogsheads, 2,198 tierces, and 301
n barrels of sugar puncheons, and 208
i" hogsheads of rum—4,ls9 cwt. coffee— 474
u bags ginger—494 bags pimento —600 tons
of logwood —l4B ditto fuftic—and 16 do.
lignum vita:.
"- ■ . . - >« ■ -Mimm>n;
By tllis Jay's Maii.
e NEW-YORK, September 13.
is It is said that General .Kofciulko is arri
n ved in town,
i Yesterday was married at Richmond Hill,
by the Right Rev. the Bishop of New-York,
f- Willi am Palmsr, EsQi Capaain in the
n 18th regiment of British Dragoons, to Miss
1- Augusta Temple, daughter of Sir John
)- Temple, Baronet, his Britannick Majesty's
1- t Consul General to the United States of A
merica.
ir . '
5- PARIS, July 21.
d Truguet has received a letter from the di
is redtory, acquainting him, that it was with
ie the utmost concern they saw themselves obli
le ged to remove him from a Ration he had
filled with as much zeal as abilities, and that
ie as a reward for his services, he de
:h j mand any other place he chose. Truguet
id returned a short and noble answer, mform
e- ing the direftory that he should ask no other
id favor but oblivion and repose.
e. As for Cochon, it is difficult to withdraw
al from a public station with more glory than
x- he has done. The direftory, on intimating
a. to him his diTmifiion, requested him to afiiit
■- with his knowltdge and experience his un
or experienced fuCceflor, since they were fully
y, convinced that a man who had given so ma
le ny pledges of his attachment to the revolu
tion, would certainly give this new proof of
d- patriotism.
id Cochon, in compliance with this request,
ir, held two conferences with his fuccedor Le
d- noir Laroche, wherein the latter learned
more in point of police than he ever had
b- thought of before.
iw Tiriet, head clerk in the department of
is police, a man generally refpefted for his* ta
ils lentu and probity, has given in his refigna
-10 tion. He is fucceedcd by Mathieuj ex
u. member of the convention and of the ci-de
n- vant committee of general welfare, and presi
dent of the revolutionary tribunal of the
n- 17th of August.
ir- Rumor fays, that Legarde, secretary of
ie- the directory, will be dilmiffed, and fuc
lt, ceeded either by Honore Bioult, author of
he the " Memoires d'un Detenu," (Memoirs
he of a Prisoner), or by Benjamin Constant.
Nt General Hoche not having ye - , attained
the age requisite f(jr a minister of state, Pe
:f- tiet remains at the head of the war depart
g, ment.
in The prcfent ministers of finances and juf
nd tice are, we understand, to be replaced by
ch Montefquiou and Vieillard, late national ac
cufcr at Vendome.
>m Buonaparte has issued 4 proclamation, ad
it, dreflied to his army, which throws some
nd light on the alarming circumftance3 where
is in we find ourselves. It is as follows :
nd Buonaparte, general chief of the army of
:ry Italy.
3s. " SOLDIERS,
ed " This day we celebrate the anniverfaiy
ad of the 14th of July. Y(u fee before you
rnt the names' of our brethren in arms, slain in
ed the field of honor for the liberty of our
ng country, They have set you the example ;
it is fct- you.to secure the happfritfs (>{ -,' d~i
millions of Frenchmen ; it is for you to
preserve unfullietl the glory of that nam* j
which you<have rendered more iUuftrious by
your triumphs.
" Soldiers, I know you arc deeply moved
by the misfortunes which threaten our cq-un
try ; but the country cannot run any dan
ger. The men who made her triumph over
coalesced Europe still exist. Mountain's fe
pacate U3 from France, but in cgfe of need,
you will pass them with the rapidity of the
Eagle, to maintain the constitution, defend
liberty, and protest both the government and
the republicans.
" Soldiers, government watches over the
Execution of the l:*ws entrusted to its care.
The royalists will perish the, very moment
they make their appearance. Be without
uneasiness, and let us swear by the names of
the heroes who have .fallen by our fide in
I the defence of liberty ; let us swear, under
I our new banners,eternal war agaiult the
enemies of the republic, and of the consti
tution of the third year.
(Signed) " BUONAPARTE."
LONDON, July 22.
His majesty's armed eufter Telemachus,
commanded by lieutenant Newton, has tak
en La Hardi French privateer lugger, of 4
carriage guns and 30 men, and retaken twtf—
merchant brigs captured by her, and carri
ed them into Portfmoutty.
The trial cutter, lieut. Garret, has cap
tured le Courier de la Mer, a French priva
teer of 12 guns and 21 men, and retaken a
brig captured by her and carried them to
Spithead.
The Hind revenue cutter, of Falmouth,
has captured and sent into that port L'ln
croyable French privateer, of two carriage
guns and z 1 men, and also retaken a sloop
captured by her.
July 28.
The Spanish fleet is in the fame predica
ment with the Dutch, and durst not venture
out. What a mortification this is to the
French republic and its allies ! Commodore
Phillips, iu the Swiftfure, of 74 guns, and
5 Portiigueze (hips, watches the Gut of
I Gibraltar.
Yesterday morning, at 10 o'elock, Mr.
| Brookes, a king's meflenger, arrived in town
with difpatchee from lord Malmefbury at
Lisle. He left that place on Tuesday af
| ternoon at four o'clock, reached Calais at
' four the next morning, and embarked in an
r open boat; but the tide being adverse, he re
: turned, and re-embarked in the Prince of
; Wales Packet, and arrived at Dover at orie
t ! ©'clock; yesterday morning,
j As soon as circular letters could be feht
round to the mimfters, the cabinet met, and
? fat near two hours. There will be another
(. meeting this day.
s Late last night tve received the Pari*
. Gazettes down to the 23d inft. inclusive.
Strange to fay, they contain no one arti-
I cle, nor even surmise, refpe&ing the pro
gress of the negociation at Lisle; the most v
certain proof this, of the seCrecy with which
it is conduced. There are some very long
observations on the difficulties that arose in
- forming the new Administration, and that
Barthelerqy and Carnot publicly protested
, against several ofthenew nominations. There
~ was a division in the DiredWy on each no
e mination of 3to 2, excepting in the per
s foris of Truguet and Delacoix, for. who s e
ii difmiflal all the Dire&ors were of one opini
s on. It is understood that Rameland Mer
- liu will also be difmified; the former ii to be
succeeded by Montefquoiu. " If this change
really takes place, fays the Royalilt Jour
nal La Quotidienne, our fears ought to
i- cease refpedting the hostile disposition of the
h Diredlory." Hoche appears not of fuffici
i- ent age to accept the place of Minister of
d War. He is only 29 years of age, and the
it Constitution requires he (hould be 30. Pe
■- tiet, the former Minister, has been requested
:t to continue in his former situation, and the
1- Directory is much praised for this proof of
:r its conceflion to the public opinion. Previl
le Le Pellay is arrived at Paris' from Lisle,
iv and has entered on hia new office for the
n marine department. Talleyrand Perigord
g is rer nrted to have very pacific dispositions.
II —Having loft his chara&er in the -early
)■ part of the French Rclolntion, he cannot so
y effeftually retrieve it as by facilitating a gen
-- eral peace for Europe.
1- TA'o of the deputies, Willot and Quirot,
if attended by Piehcgru and Tallot, as fe
cond3, have been out to fight a duel in the
t, Bois de Boulogne, but were prevented by
the interposition of the police,
d The most marked ill humour manifefts it
d felf on all occalions in the council of Five
Hundred, where the members have entered
>f a very violent protest, and called the Direc
-- tory to account for having dared to order
i- the march of the troops ©f the line nearer to
t- Paris than the constitution permits. The
Directory was necefiitatcd t.rlhelter itfelf,
i- by throwing the blame on some unknown
le commiflary, though there ean be no doubt
but it was itfelf which gave the order,
if The address of general Buonapare to f.hii
army is very interesting, as it proves that he
jf adts in concord with the Dirgdlory, and is
rs ready to march to his afiiftance.
No communication was at firft permitted
d to take place between the people on board
e- the packet which arrived early yesterday
t- morning at Dover, and tbpfe on shore. ,TUe '
Paris papers werfc not allowed to be taken
f- out for twelve hours after the landing of the
ly meflenger. The dispatches brought by him
c- are kept a profound secret, even from per
sons who are very intimately, connefled with
i- government.
ye
e- From the LONDON GAZETTE.
Admiralty-Office, July 29, 1797.
of Extrafty of a Utter from the right hot), lord
Bridport, K. B. admiral of the white, to.
Evan Nepean, Esq. dated on board his
ry majejiys ship Royal George, at sea, July
mj 24, 1797.
in I acquaint you, for their lordihips'info'r
ur mation, that I this day .joined the fl.ips
e; under, the orders of iir jobn i". Waneo,who lv« tranfmiu ,-d to' mo tlic inclosed Wt
teis and jfap-ra, which are copies of origin
als he iept ti> rnc at Torbav, which did not
arrive therfe till after I had quitted the an
thorage.
La Pomone, at sea, July 18, I 797.
'My Lord,
I beg leave to acquaint your lordship,
that in obedience to your command, I con
tinued off Uflrant with his majefty's-fqnad
ron under my orders, confuting of the fol
lowing vessels, (La Pomone, Artois, An
ion, Sylph and Dolly cutter) until the 16th
instant, when hearing the report of many
guns to the southward, I flood round the
weft end of the Saints, and at day break
in the morning of the 17th, I a
frigate, with a ship, corvette and brig, hav
ing fourteen fail of vessels under convoy, in
Hodierne bay; eight of which were cap
tured.
I art sorry to add, that the (hip, corvette
and brig escaped round the Penmarks, and
the frigate, by cutting away her malls, and
being otherways lightened, ran on shore ;
a brig laden with ordnance and naval stores,
came to an pnehor near her, where it was
impoffibfc for the Anfon and Sylph to fol
low. The brig, however, was funk, and
the frigate (La Calliope) much darpaged
In her hull by the (hot of the above ment'-
oned ffiip, whose officer's and men behaved
with the greatcft zeal and aftivity, which
inducts me to hope that the enemy will not
be able to get her off, a3 the wind soon after
changed to the south weft, with a great
swell upon the beach.
I was obliged to burn La Freedom, a
large ihip armce en flute, laden with squar
ed timber, as the enemy had run her on
shore at high water, and the crew, with
their wounded, got away in their boats.
I have inclosed to your lordship a lift of
• the vessels captured and deflroyed on the
17th mftant, with a return of the wounded
on board his majesty's brig Sylph.
I have the honour to be, &c.
J. WARREN.
[A lift of eight vessels, of different de
scriptions, (one of which is a transport la- '
den with a large anchor, 6ooolbs weight,
a purehafe crane, flour, bread, beef, pork,
brandy, soldiers' cloathing, &c.) taken— 1
of two destroyed—and one (La Calliope 1
frigate) run on shore, and a return of five 1
seamen and a marine, belonging to 'the I
Sylph, wounded in engaging La Calliope, ;
—here follow.] 1
. i
La Pomone, at fta, July 24, 1797.
My Lord,
I have the fatisfa&ion of acquainting r
your lordship, that I had an opportunity of
feeing that La Calliope republican frigate, 1
of thirty.fix guns and two hundred and fifty
men, that was left on shore on the 17th by
the Anfon and Sylph, is totally destroyed, t
having separated in the midship body, and fl
part of her funk. The crew are encamped C
near her bo fate such storeS as may be driven v
on shore. S
I am particularly indebted to captain c
White, of the brig, who having an- ti
chored with springs on his cable, within n
pistol shot of the said frigate on the above 2
day, for some hours kept up an incessant t
and well directed fire, which was at every p
convenient opportunity returned by her. tl
I perceived likewise the wrecks of La b
Freedom, armee en flute, laden with tim- o
ber, and the brig with ordnance, which a
were driven ou shore the fame day and de
stroyed. 1
I have the honor, &c. A
J. WARREN.
The right hon. Lord Bridport. C
ADMIRALTY OFFICE, A.gust 1.
The following dispatches have been received at
this office, by E. Nepean, Esq.
Villi de Paris, CtJiz, 5,
SIR, m
I litffire you will acquaint the lords commifTion- m
er» of th« admiralty, that the TerpGchore, with of
the Thunder Bomb, having a detachment of artil- [Jj
lery 011 board, and the Urchin'gun host, Irom Gib- r
raltar, joined oil the id init. and the night follow- c
ing, rear ad > iral Nelson having made his difpofi- ca
tions, the bomb, coverfd by the gun boat, launches, pc
and barges of the fleet, was placed near the tower de
of San Sebaflian, and fired some (hells into the an
town, when an attempt was made by the gun
boat aid launches of the enemy to carry her. P r
The rear admiral, who is always present in the an
mod arduous enterprises, with the a [Mane- of an
feme other barges, boarded and carried two of the ad
enemy's boats, and a Urge launch of one of their w
fhips of war. with the commandant of the Flotil
la. In thiafhort conflict 18 or 10 Spaniards were P r
killed, the commandant and several wounded ;he "
aniK men made prifonert; the reft swam alhorq. th]
Thi« spirited a&ion was performed with inconfi- JJfl
derahl# loss on our part, as per enclosed—'l killed 0 j
and lo wounded.] 'the launch of the Ville de Pa
ris was funk by a raking shot from the enemy's °P
gun beats ; but by the a<3ive intelligent mind of un
tapt.Troubriige, got up yesterday morning, and so
repaired on board the Cullo ten. his
Rear admiral Nation's actions speak for them
felvcs, anypraifeof mine would till vjry short of
his merif. I ain, Sir, yqur inoft obedient humble
ft-rvint, J. JERVIS. H<
Evan Nepean, Esq. ma
sir, Tbefeus, July 4, 1797.
In obedience to your orders, the Thun
derer bomb was placed by the good manage
ment of lieut. Gourly, herprcfent command- pr<
er, aflifted by Mr. Jackson, master of the the
Ville de Paris, who volunteered his able 10
services, within 2500 yards of the walls of ant
Cadiz, and the shells were thrown from her twi
with much precifiam, under the dire&ion of ing
lieut. Baynts of the royal artillery; but un- ■ tro
fortunately it was soon found that a large i are
mortar was materially injured from its fer- j Uli
viees ; I therefore juded it proper for her to ! pol
return under the protection of the Goliah, j feffl
Terpsichore and Fox, who were kept tjnder | fid;
fail for that purpose, and for whose adlual thr
service I feel much obliged. 10,
The Spaniards having sent out a great Ma
number of mortar - gun boats and armed W<
launches, I dire&ed a vigorous attack to be Ka
made on them, which was done with such try,
gallantry, that they were drove and pursued
tlofeto the walls cf Cadiz, and iraift. have
fufFcred confiderablc loss j and I have the <
pleafurt to iufoim two mortar- Bri
let- boats and ao armed launch remained in our
£in-- poffeflion.
not I feci myfelf particularly indebted for the
an- fuccefsful termination of tlw contefl to the
gallantry of capts. Freemantle and Miller,
the former of whom accompanied me in my
7- barge, and to my coxswain, John Sykes, who
in defending my person, is mod severely
up, wounded, as was capt. Freemantle, slightly
011- in the attack : and my praises are general
ad- ly due to every officer and man, some of
' whom 1 saw behave in the molt noble mart
in- ner, and I regret it is no> in my power to
3th particularize them. I must also beg to be
my permitted to express my admiration of Don
the Miguel 1 yrafon, the commander of the gun
'ak boats, in his barge ; he laid my boat along
i a fide, and his refinance was such as to honor
ay- a brave officer, ißgfthe 26 men being kil
m led, and himfelf and all the reft wounded.
ap- Not having a con-eft lift of the killed and
wounded, I can only state that I believe 6
tte are killed and 20 wounded. I have rfie hon
nd or to be, fir, your obedient Servant,
nd (Signed) HORATIO NELSON,
e ; Sir John Jervis, K. B.
es,
Copy of a letter from the Earl of St. Vin
ol- cent, commander iri chief of his Majesty's
nd ships and vefftl employed on the Coast of
ed Portugal, to Evan Nepean, Esq.
ti- Ville de Parts, off Cadiz, July 9.
Ed Sir,
eh I enclose, for the information of the
ot Lord s Commiffionersof the Admiralty, let
er ters I have lately received from capt. El
at phinftone, of his Majesty's ship the Hama
dryad, and the hon. Courteney Boylf, com
a mander of his Majesty's ship the Kangaroo,
ir- relating to the capture of some of the ene
in tny's vessels.
th Mr Loud,
I nave the honor to inform your Lord
of ship, that on my passage from Plymouth,
le with thf Boyne transport un der my convoy,
:d in his Majesty's sloop Kangaroo, on the 22d
inft. 1«. 26. deg. 25 min. N. long. 7 deg
-12 min. W. I fell in with and captured,
La Surprize French lugger Privateer |of 47
tons, 6 guns, a-'d 48 men ; had been 6 days *
!- out of Crofic (entrance of the Loi're,) and
t, made 110 capture.
;, I have further to inform your Lordship,
- that on the 3d inft. Cadiz bearing E. by S.
e distance 27 leagues, I fell in with and cap- 1
e tured La Purriffma Cfinception, a lugger
e sent out from Cadiz with a King's officer, \
, and 9 men, under orders to cruize for a
brig from the Havanna, having dispatches
for her.
I am, &c. i
BOYLE.
r The right hon. the lord of St. Vincent. r
, Hamadryad, in Gibraltar Bay, July 13, 97,
r Sm, ' '
In obedience to your orders, I proceeded
, to sea on the 29th of June, light airs and a
1 strong current set us a little to the eaftwa.d f J
1 On th# 30th I fell in with 2 Xebecks, one of
1 which we took, and the other, which was a !*'
Spanish privateer, we drove on shore ; the
1 crew of the former made their escape. As- u
. ter feeing her fafe into Gibraltar, yesterday c;
morning, I stretched across to Ceuta, and at
2, A. M. I fell in with and captured L'Ac- ' r
tion French cutter privateer of 6 guns, cop- cl
pered, and 30 men. I have anchored, fir
the fok purpose of putting the prisoners on
1 board theprifon ship, and getting my people f t
. out of the prize, add fliall weigh again in In
a few hours. B
I have the honor to he Sec ' N
THO. ELPHINSTONE.
Admiral Sir John Jervis, K. B. p.
Fi
Copy of another Letter from the' Earl of St.
Vincent to Evan Nepfan, Esq. Ja
Ville de Paris, off Cadiz, July 10.
St K, >'t
I desire you will acquaint the Lords Com
miflioners of the admiralty, that Rear Ad- p'
miral Nelson ordered a lecondbombardment an
of Cadiz, on the night
the dire&ion of Captain Bowen,of the Terp- co
fichore, capt. Miller of the Theseus, and 0 f
capt. Waller, of the Emerald ; and ap
pointed Mr. Jackson, master of the Ville WJ
de Paris, to place the Thunderer, Terror, ftf
and Strombolo, and |the bombardment 0 f
produced considerable eneft in the town, and ku
among the (hipping. Ten fail of the line, jj) j
among them the ships carrying the flags of a h
admirals Mazzaredo and Gravina, having
warped out of the range of (hell with much p r
precipitation the following morning ; and it
is with great fatisfadlion I inform you, that <J U
this important service was effetted with very
little loss on our fide—[3 killed. 11 wound- t of
ed.] The Rear admiral meditated another JJe
operation on the night of Saturday the Bth,
under his own diredlion j but the wind blew c j u
so strong down the Bay, he could not get hln
his bomb vessels up to the point of attatk in Tli
time. W ed
Mr. Hornfley, mjfta's mate of the Sea at . g
Horse, distinguished himfelf in a very re- I me;
markable manner. j u -
J- JERVIS.
RATISBON, July 12. „ t }.
Already the Auftrians are making great r p l
preparations to open the campaign against i t , n
the Piuflians. A cew corps, confiding of q 0 ]
10,000 men from the armies of the Uppir
and Lower Rhine, who were cantoned be-
tween Franckfort and Heilbron, are march- <j er
ing into the environs of Wunburg ; the p tv
troops encamped in the Upper Palatinate t ] iei
are reinforced; the fortreffes of Ingolftadt, j y ( ;
Ulm and Wurzburg, are fortifying with all '
poflible dispatch, so that the Prulfian pof- j;
sessions in Franconia are surrounded on all
fides. The Pruflian cabinet, forefeeing this t,
threatened danger, have marched a corps of
10,000 men, who are now in the Duchy of
Magdeburg, in the circle of Franconia.— ~"
We are allured that the celebrated general
Kalkreuth is going to that part of the couli- A
tiy. • ' and
— been
BOSTON, September 9. A
immediately on its being known by the D<W
British commanding officer, on the Ameri- A
our can ftat/on, tint a Preach privateer waron
the coast, he. dispatched two sloops of war
the in quest of her.
the A trial of a very intct efting nature is he
ller, fore the supreme judicial court now fittinc.
my Five very reipeSable citizens of the ({land
vho of Nantucket, are ifidi&ed of having rob
rely bed the bank of that place, in June,°i 79c,
itly of about 20-,'faoo dollars. The trial eame on'
ral- onThurfday, continued-Jrefftrday, and will
Sos ngt probably be concluded until Monday,
an- The public mind is much etigaged in the
to 'oufinefs ; and the iflue anxiously waited for.
be t
)on PROVIDENCE, Sept. 9.
r Un 9" W eiln e(day lall \ris celebrated the anni
mg velfi, ry commencement of RfcoVle tfland Col
no,. 1 ** proet flional train was formed as ufu
... al, and at I« o'clock moved to the meet
ing house. The ' following, cxtydjfet, after a
prayer by the Piefideni, ;
n C 'l-ORKNOON.- \
: 6 Tr.Jirumcntal (/lujfc.
>n- . '• Salutatory addreiTcs, and an oration on
independence—by Jaines l?rvin.
jt 2. An intei mediate oration on independence
—by John Simmons.
3. An intermediate oration, on the advanta
ges resulting from the study of hiftorv-bv Na
in- than Holman,
jr's _4- An oration, on the importance of cdnca- 1
Q £ tion to the union eft reptiblican governments—
by Richard George.
Pseal Mujic.
5. An intermediate oration, on the present
prosperity of the Uniflfd States—bv John Bald- i
he win. • 1
;t- 6. A difieftation on war—bv Horatio G.
fj. Bowen,
ia . 7. A iifpute on thii queflion : « farther it
n _ <wotdd be more adventageons for mankind, if
theearthfiould produce her fruits fpentanetuf
' If." —between Liberty Bates and Nathan Ca
e- ry.
8. An oration on the love of glory—by Abi
jah Draper. '
d- 9- A poem—by Paul Dodge.
| 10. A dilTertation nn the profpe&s of Ame
rica—by (Horace Everett.
Y' it. An oration, on the infallibility of the un
derstanding— by John Sabitl. 1
J" Vacal Mnfic.
d, 12. A (Cfrertarir.n, on jhe pleasures of ima
ginatiort —bv Francis Howard,,
* 13. A dialogue The world's],(fatfiauz"—
id between Liberty Rates, Paid Dodge, Franeis
tlowaid, Samuel Ervin, and John Wither-
Ij.oon.
14- An intermediate oration, 011 the Irne of
5. power, considered as a principle aiJlion—by
J- Calvin Park.
;r 15. All oration, on the ne-effity of maintain
r ing the dignity of the United States—by Jarius
' Ware,
a
A FTBRNOOH.
s Injirumcntal Muftc.
t. An oration on the advantages of mental
improvement-—by Drury Fairbanks £
t. An oration, oh the indignities offered A- i
menea by France—by Samuel Ervin.
3. A dispute, on this queftien . " J) oej she ]
light of nature afford evidence that God will
pardon fin?" —between Abel Richmond, Will
iam Collier, and Joseph B. Cook.
1 Vteal Music.
a 4- An oration, on oratory —by John Wither
fpoon.
f 5■ A conference, on education—between Ho
ratio G. Bowen, Horace Everett, Drury Fair
bank, and Jarius Ware. I
6. An oration, on- the neceflity ps political
union at the present day—by Paul Allen, jun. 1
candidate for the second degree ->
t 7- An oration, on the propriety of introduc
. ing thefcience of jurifprudeme into-a course of
_ clafiicsl education—by Sarotic-r W. Bridgham,
candidate for the lecond degree.
l r c;a! Mu/ic.
The degree of bachelor in the irti was con
ferred on the following young gentlemen, A
-1 lumr.i of the collepe: tierljamin John
Baldwin, Liberty Bates, Horatio G. Bowen, p
Nathan Cary, William Collier, Joseph Bullein
Cook. Paul Dodge, .Abijah Draper, James Er
vin, Samuel Ervin, Horace Everett, Drury
Fairhsnk, Richard George, Nathan Hofman,
Frjncis Howard, Job Morton, Calviu Pirk,
Abel Richmond, John Sabin, John Simmons, oi
Jan us W/ire, and John Wftherfpoon."" Yc
'1 he degree of matter in the irts „as confer
red on the following younj; geftlemen, Atumni
or'.the college: Jeremiah Bailey, Ssmtter W.
Bridgh-im, PauT Allen, jun. John Miles,
P. Little, Joseph Rawfon, John W. Richmond,
and Samuel VV'atfcfn.
The degree of Bachelor in the Arts vvas T
conferred on Horace Birniey, an Alumnus
of Harvard College.
The honorary degree of Bachelor of Arts
was conferred ontthe rev. Clark Brown, of
Mschias. The honorary degree of ma Iter
of arts was conferred on t'hereV. Isaac Bac
kus, of Middlebotaugh. The degree ps
Divinity was conferred on the rev. Hezeki
ah Smith, of Haverhill. The degree of
doftorof laws was conferred on John Adams
President of the United States.
An address was then deliveredto the Gra
duates by the President.
8. An Oration in defence of Revelation, e vi
together with tire valtdi'ftory addreffts—by 0C(
Benjamin Allea. I^.
A praycrby the rev. Dr. con- f] a
eluded the exercises 01" the day, which were i n
highly gratifying to a numerous assembly. fy]
The vocal and iudrumental music (perform
ed with much animatioh and great musical
accuracy, by a circle of ladies and gentle- net
men of the town )ynerited and received the j o r
liigheft applause, and gave a zest to the tru
ly pleasurable scene.
The Corporation, set their meeting on the g o i
7th ihft. appointed Samliel appas/ as
Trustee of the College ; and Benjamin Al" Mr
.len, one of the Graduates, Tutor of the o rt
Colle S c -, , pol
Er;
We are allured from thebeilSutVprity, un- to t
der yelicrday'B date, that no^iw^^trfthe
Fever, had occurred at Bristol •; feVid that ]
there is good reason to believe it will whol- ..
ly dilappear in a few days. rhia
J 11 1 111 1 : W c;
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Bitto * dirt 1 Claret jit!' tales . an( j
Just received, and for Sale by • t ), e
Runclle & Leech. b
As. IT. . ,
TO BE SOLD VEk2 CHEAP > E ""
A Wa CGGN aimed new. with a Frame— "
and a pair of hariaei's collarsj hes never had
been ujrS—price 90 Roils." Five
A Horfe.i6 hands high, seven years std—and a tie!
new chair, with a falling top ana hanuf*—j'jo. wht:
Enrjuire No. 33T, Market-flrect. perf
A'iguft 24. «llw gc h<
%\)t
he-
<"g- PHILADELPHIA,
and
•ob. THURSDAY EVENING, September 14.
95, '■
on, Extrafl of a letter from our correfr
' respondent in New-York, dated 12
the o'clock ycjierday.
for. "~\V e have, just received
■ai- London ad\ices to A\yx.
2. s—New5 —New ooftacles arise to
eetts ■, _
r a peace—no hopes of it—
France in commotion—
on, troops are marching from
nce ,the Rhine towards Paris
sla- —Buonaparte has propo
«-'i fed marching to France—
The Dutch fleet, in our
ent last papers, is said to be
a! ° ut - ' _
'it CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
From the 13th to 14th Sept. in the morning.
-a- # '
Admitted, since last report,
bi- Samuel Ogle—Capt. Allin's
Lyman Cady—Kamerer's, No 24, North
Third-street
' e " J acob (a/Mulatto)—White Swan, Race
n- ftrcct
Molly Roberts—Gregory's, South-street
John M'Farland—No. 50, Race-street
a- Mapr MfgJone—corner of Water and Chris
tian-streets
~ Margaret M'Elwee—Capt. Moore's, Penn-
ftrcet
George Wilkms—South, between Front
0 f and Second-street
iy J°fcph Arned—Philadelphia frigate, below
Drawbridge
•- Rachel M'lntolh—Drawbridge
is °
Died, since last report,
Jane M'Farland, admitted nth
,1 Hannah Jackson, 12th
Samuel Bell, ' 9th
,- Anne Jane Fottrill 4th
'' Remaining last Report r r
_ Admitted fiuce, lc f
65
Discharged None
Died ' 4 4
j Remain inHofpital, | j fil
t Interred in City Hospital burying ground
since last report :
From the city and suburbs I
f From the city hospital 4
»
Total 5
Step hen Girard, j
(Signed) Caleb Lownes,
1 John Connelly.
' Published by order of the Board, '
JAMES OLDDEN, "
Chairman pro. tem.
The sick at the Hospital being in need 0
of lhirt6, ftu'fts and other linens, such bene
volent persons as are disposed to fend any, j'
; will please to leaye l?hem at the City Hall.— 0
Oat ft raw is also much wasted, and will be
thankfully received at the HofpitV, and
paid for if required.
Totals of burials for 24 hours, ending ycjler- r )
day at noun. J '
__ w
St Paul's I,Adults-
Third Presbyterian »
Chr.ft ' 1 Child:
f*t>Mary'« I j
Grrman Lutheran 1
BaptiSs I ' 1
, Potter's fi;.ld I X nl
City Hospital* 8
Total 14 4
* Four of tbafe from the city,
:h
evening,- Manvs M'Gee : His death was _
occasioned i y the/ falling of a spar on his
head, a few days ago, which fraftured his
flcuH. His parents are poor people, and live
in the neighborhood of Pittlhurgh, Penn- laj
fylvania. C.
ot
Major Culhing is appointed Adjutant Ge- th
neral of the United States troops, vice Ma- th
jor Mills deceased.- ' fei
It will be observed that Tallyrand Ps ri
gord is now minifler for foreign affairs in the th:
place of Charles Delacroix, who insulted tin
Mr. Pinckney. Tallyrand has spent a year
or two in the United §tates, and knows our 00
policy. Our expected negociations with hai
France- will.determine whether he is a friend wi;
United States or not.—f Minerva.) * 1 ...
... ' G(
Extras, pfa letter dated Baltimore, Sept. It.
•' We have the yellow ferer worse than Philar'el- ' Jus
phia w en Ifay here.lmean the Point—.there on
\ Wedriefvay 7 died ; on Thursday S.Saturday 15 ;
n:id I believe about 14 in different parts of the city; .
who caught it it the Point—l know of i yeftercay, /
and of 4 who took it on ITiurfday by goiitg to fse
the frigate launched—kmiwiiag the danger I declin
ed being a fpe&jfor." .
° r con
ExtraiS' of a letter frpm a fjciap in £ahimore, "
dated September I*.
"I I diry there is r,o doubt but the fever is as {lre
bad at Fell's Point as in ai;y p?.rt of Philadelphia. 1
five or lix per lens hsve died in town who caught feel
tl.e lever at the. i'oii't ; hut thttre is no instance ing
where it has been crirununicated in town from any den
person who toc-k it at the Point ;at lend this is the sup
general opiniyr. bf the physicians here.*'
-September 12 1797.
THOMAS MIFFLIN, Esq. Cov.uL of
the State of Pennfylvama.
Sir,
HAV TNG been appointed by you to
I. "ny.nto effect th e law f or alleviating the
=== d ' Al "* ffes , of OMffeHow-citizeßs in. this time
,f C , a t y ' at,< * conceiving that the
ejr belt method to pursue is to give publicity to
I 2 our proceedings, as well for the purpose of.
procuring advice in time, as to prevent fun
n.ng into difficulties: Also, that you and
»d your fellow citizens may be enabled to judge
how far the money appropriated bylaw may
JT. reach, and means may be made life of in
time, to provide in cafe the calamity should
continue; These coniiderations induced the
Board of Comraiflioners to enter into a lefo
lution, that they would Iranfmit to you a
cur lory ftatejnent of their proceeding's wsck
lyi expefting that proper allowance will be
ITI , re fp e <ft to accuracy, arrifing
from the multiplicity of calls of attention
IS VT? member has > to the necessities of
our flittering fellow-citizens.
>- u F ! On J 4th to 9tU relieved two
hundred and eighty four persons, chiefly
- head ot families, with two hundred and six
ty mtie dollars and sixty five cents, besides a
jj- quantity of bread, account of cost not vet
received.
)e About two hundred and fifty men were
relieved by employment north and south on
the roads, and to open the water courses in
Southwark; so as to drain the stagnated
waters off the low grounds, at 75 cents per
day—add to the above, that provilion is to
g- be made, by this Board, for about two
hundred people that have rempved to the
tents, which comramced the 10th instant,
and great increase expefted.—When you
consider .his is but the commencement »f
our business, you will readily conclude with
us, that there is a probability the numbers
and confsqoenlly expences mavijicrrafe, and
probable double itfelf, before' the calamity
ceases.
f; Your letter of the gtfi inft. ha« been .at
tended to, a conference heM vmh
the supervisors of Roxbury and German
town. At we find it difficult to ob
tain the consent of those men that have sam-
S .. t .° £° so far from ho "ie, but in all pro
bability we may be shortly able te draft as
many single men as will answer the purpose :
that, with every other communication from
the governor, will meet with due attention.
That the Supreme Being may ihortly put
a period to the exifling calamity, and restore '
health to our afflifted eity, is the earnest
felicitation of this Board
ROBERT WHARTON, Chairman.
5 PRICES OF STOCKS,
Philadelphia, Bth Sept. 1707.
- 6 per Cent. 16/j?
J i per Cent. 10 /-,
Deferred 6 per Cent. z \r.
BANK United States, IS per ct. adranco.
Peonfylvauia, 21 d„.
North America, 46 do.
j Inlurance Co. N. Ai fharei 45 to 50 do.
' Pennsylvania, par
i COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30. days par
at 60 days 65
——— at 90 days
- Amltfrdam, per guilder 40
9° d?ys , 41
Port of Philadelphia.
No arrivals since ouf last.
The barque which was in fight from the
fort, has gone back to Chester.
NOTICE
Is herrhy o-iven to the inhabitants of the Diftri#
of Southwark, that a ir.eetiog will be hc!3 at the
Comroiffioner's room, on Frinay evening the 15th
inft. at 7 o clock o into coniideiation, acl a
dpt meafu-c» for the protection os-he property of
our fellow -citizen* from dating robbers.
JOHN PENROSE.
S"n(. 14.
~ WANTED
Bills on .Aniflerdam, at a <sght exceeding six
ty dsys,and with approved ludorfers, to the amount
jft vo hundred thenfand guikt.rs—J#r-wl,.ch\ fl»
wi Ibe pai!. t the rate of thirty eight cenu a ;nt 1-
d e f —Aj plicat on» to hwnade o George Sioipip; ,
Caihier of the Sank the United States.
Sept. 4.. dtf
• The Health-Office *
IS removed to the City-Halh and is kept open
night and day, where perlons having bulinifs may
-PP'y- Wm. ALLEN, Health-officer.
Sc P' 4 dt f
No I l C K.
THF. Offices of the Department of War are so*
he pr. lent rmiovtj near te the Falls of the Sauyt
lcjii, on ilie Ridge Road. '
September 4.
' Post Of Tics, September sth, 1797. ~
CCj" The Pod Office will be removed to
rnoirow at 3 o'clock, P. M. to Mr. Dunr
lap's Coach house, lath ftreet,between Mar
ket and Chefnut street, where merchants and
others will please to fend fur their letters, as
the letter carriers during the continuance of
the prifent prevailing sickness will not be
sent out.
MRS. G RAT TAN
INFORMS her friends,and the pubiic in genera],
that h-r house, No. 195,, wi!l\on- '
tinue open during the C?kncfa.
Board and-Lodging' in a separate room, Tktt
bollars, in a double room, eight collars.
For the cenvcnitnce of 'these gentleman who
have no» thair amilie. ia town, Mrs. ®rat4ah
will receive 4entlemen to djne at h.ai f .1 Dot.LAis
day. yf-
OOUGH3, dOJRDS;
CONSUMPTIONS.
■Just received, by W.m. GRirrrrH»,No. 177,50 V h
Second-ft'rtet, a freih fupplvof
Genuine Bal/ain of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late gir John Hill
(who knowledge a Botanist j rocured him
the appellation of the Linnaeus of Britain) and is
eonfidered in a? iurta-nnrt r orthe above
complaints; it is al(b of sjiuguiar cfhc3ey in the
Hooping Cough,
It may al o be had retail of W. A. Stokes, No.
6r, South Second street, and T.'Stiff, 55, Ncw
flreet, in bottles at 7j cents each.
VVm, Grifi-itus haying observed (he h-rry tf.
' '' the medic-ne, (ieveral cases of cure-:, hav
ing Cottle within his owe knowledge) and the great
(iema.id Jfcr it has induced him to ordi j r a iaite
flippy a part of whichhehas jud received.
' ' J l ' J VVYrl'/E DOLLARS REWARD.
T> AN away from the subscriber, an indented
I'V Servant Girl, named Navcy Anef.rson, a- JJ'
Uut twenty years of age, flioit, thick set pcrfon,
With fi'iorc black hairs had on when (he went away, A nt
u-darfc calico gown, an old black (ilk cloak, and a
flack fur t!at. Whoever will secure laid girl, and r""I
„;ve information thereof to tkc subscriber, No. 2, 1.
Giieiileif alleys or to the office of this Gazette, thier
thall receive the above reward. ... ' iltlo # '
All i>rrl'ons are forbid harboring said girl, as tran!
t! will be dealt wihS as the law directs Tlu I
y MARY ANDERSON, ft"
NB. Said Girl is from Ireland, and has been ia J°
tins conntry but a (hort time ; ilie was Tent to th.
work-houle for mifconduCl, where Ihe was taken
Jick and removed to the cky-hofpitill, Irom which
place ike made her escape. .
coU
To be i'old at Public Vendue,
To the higtieft bidder, at the houlc of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Queen, n) the city of Baltimore, on the iith
day cf October next, at u o'clock, A. M
About seven thouland acres of land/
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lviri" between Reifter's-town and Weftmihfter,
commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road runs through a c.onlWsrable part of
these lands) the traft begin 3 about 17 milts
from Baltimore, within a few haudred yards
of said RfinVs-town, and extends to the dtf
tance of about twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and lies on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in traCls of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a lacge propor
tion of meadow and wood land each
some of them highly improved, with excellent
buddings anil fine gr; fs.
AtSO
A tract of seven hundred acres of
land, filled Clover Farms, withttl five rndes of KN
Blade nihil re", esteemed very good for Grals. 1 i, O ,
llichard Ponfonby.of Bladenfburgh, will ftiew : dov
this land to any person inclined to purchase. j ] at <
also, mu
A traft of land ®f about three hun- J
dred and thirtv acres, within about two miles
and a half o the President's house in the Fede
ral City. ft is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high prnfpeCt, fron' which may be fcen the _
city of Washington, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and, a part of Uedrge-tovvn, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Poi.fon-
ky, of Bladenlburg, will also (hew this land.
A liberal credit will be given for the gieaielt im
part of the purchase money, ihe terms will t ; 0
be made known on the day «f sale. ap
May 8 __ dy
Just Received, j><-
From Batavia (via Providence)
* few Boxtsof Bpiecs, consisting of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
For lile by .
KILLINGS y FRANCIS, p ,
Penn'ftreel. ; n
May 30 dtf Pi
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street. p
GEORGE DAVIS, «
BEING buGed for some time past in prepara
tions for removing into his prafent house, has
been under theneoellity of poftpcninguntil this day j,
informing the gentlemen ofthe Bar generally thro'
the flatted States, that his spring importation of n
law book' is now arranged and ready for lale, on
t-.rmsthat he trusts will untitle him to the like pre- _
freence he has experienced for leveral years past.
Catalogues, combining the most fciried collec
tlon ever imported idto this country, are printed ..
and will be delivered on application.
June 1?. iitr 6w
City Commiflioners 1 Office, • '
J M y«„ezi,nv \
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the feleCl v
and common councils, pasted the lid day of
May last, appointing the'eity commiflioners,
and prescribing their duties, feClion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diftrifts,
each to be under the fuperintenjance of one of
Ihe city commiflioners, whoisto be individually
retponfible for the cleaijlinefs of the fame, and
are as follow. '
DriftriCl No. t. From the south fide of Ce- 1
dar-ftrtet, to tl\e north fide of Sprufe-ftreet, un
dcrtlie fuperistendence of Nathan Bnys.
j. From the north fide of Spruce-ftrpet, to
the north fide of Walnut-street, under the super
intendence of Hugh Roberts.
3. Fromthc north fide of Walnut to tke south
fide bf High-street, under the superintendence of
Jof;ph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-street, to the
north fide of Mulberry street, under the fuper
iirtendcncc of Willisfm Moulder.
5. From the north'fideof Mulberry street to
the north fide of Vine-llreet, under the super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaning of Higli-ftreet to he in common.
0- A ftatcd meeting of th* city comraifiion
ers is held at the Old Courl House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at j o'clock
July 14. e " lm
Standt for Draymen, EsV,
' In purfuanct of an Ordinance from tbeSeleff and
Common Councils,bearing date the 2id daj of
April, 1797. providing for the appointment ps
City Commijj/ionerj, Heft, the Istb.
*"I following places are fixed upon by the
JL said City Commilfionert for Stands for
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-flreet, eallward of Front-ftrett, on
both fides.
Saflafras, High, Chefnut and Walnut-fltreets,
eastward ot Front-ftrtet, the no. th fide only.
Mulberry-street, /outh fide from Front to
/Third-street.
Front-ftreat, east fide from Vine-street to
El frith'e alley.
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Waler-ftreet, weft fide from the north end ef
Stomper's or Moore's stores to Pine-street.
Pcnn-ftreet from Pine to Ceiar-ftreet, weft
fi de -
Drawbridge, north fide, ealt of Front-ilreet.
Spruce, Pine and South streets, ealt of Froßt
•street, f<4utJTl'de.
Dock-lireet, between Walnut-street and the
Hap stone croflings, east fide, opposite George
Orklev's. .
Second-street, between and Vine
ftre*ts, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry streets.
Safiafras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-llrcet,
east fide • s
No dray or horse to {land within ten feet oi
'"IFTNDS FOR HACKNEY COACHES.
Piiie-ftrect, north- fide from Eourth to Fifth
Areeis.
Fifth-ltri et, between Chefnut and Walnut
Rreets, welt. 4 s
Branch-street, north fide, betvaen Third and
Fowrth llteets.
u . mwfitiim
A Literary Treat,, (
JuJl pullijhed, hamlfomely printed on 'Writing
paper, price I dol'.ar,
A new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, entitled
""PHE FORESTERS, an American Tale ; being e"•
1. n hiqutl to the hiitory of John Bull, the Clo- A
thier—ln aferiesof letters to a friend, witli the ad- Jt ca
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political
tranfaftions in America.
Tin following extrafl from the Clavis All«gorica,
{hews the prineipal characters that are introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of England
His Mother, the Church of England
His Wile, the Parliament *
His Sifter Peg, the Chin ch of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
I.ewis, the Kingdom of France
HisMiflrefc, the Old Conllitution
His nvw Wife, the National Representation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain # 4
NichohsTrog, the Dutch Republic I,e
The Franks, the French Republic 'J> c
The Foresters, the United States of America
Robert Lumber, New-Hampthire l 4»"
John Codline, Massachusetts JJ,s
Humphrey Plowshare, Connefsicut
1 Roger Carrier, Rhode llland JC,c
[■ Peter Bull Frog, New-York ——
Julius Csefar, Ncw-Jerf«y N
! William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania tity
' - Caffimar, Delaware the
Walter Pipewood, Virginia but
His Grandson, George Walhington A
' Peter Pitch, North Carolina ' mor
1 Charles Indigo, South Carolina be t
> George Trully, Georgia ets.
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont 1
, Hunur Longknife, Kentucky the
t Black Cattle, Negro Slaves Wa
Rats, Speculators lele
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins fqu,
r This popular and entertaining fatirieal hifto- t wc
ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr Bel- fib!
f kna?. It hasagrsat (hare of originality and.a- w hi
s * l bounds with genuine humour. It is continued the
v i down to the present time, and charatfterifes those l o j
! late political tranfaftions which have caukd so be
much uneasiness in America. ing
. 1 Sold by H. and P.'lllCE, Bookseller, No. 14, the
, s Ssuth Second Street, and No. 50, Marke' ftjeet. he 1
1 June 16. § '
LAW BOOKS, ;
ia Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. y P. RICE, Bookseller:,
rl " No. 16, South Second, and No. jo. Market street, hii
n AVE just received by the late arrivals Irom Oi
: 1 O. London and Dublin, theii spring importa- an
tion, consisting of a variety of ths latest and molt
approved I aw Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the aioft extensive collection ev
er olfered for falc in this country. They thei efore
begileave tt> notiu, that from the nature of their "I
connections in DuDlin, they are enabled to fell Irish *
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very fel
lowed prices. The following are among the latest o(
publications. " .
Vefey, Jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1 s*-.s. tr
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports tc
in the time of Lord Hardwicke f Floyer's Procters It
Practice in the Eccleflaftical Courts ; Barton's b.
Trcatife on a Suit in Equity; Tidd s PraCtice of di
ihe Court of King's Bench in Personal ACtions, 1 so
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise it
on Uses ; modern Reports, i» vols. London edi- si
tion. ft
"■ H. and P. Rie* expefl t« receive by the firft ar- si
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of H
'W Dumfordand East's Reports, the »d part of Gil- d
ro bert'sl.aw of Evidence by Loft, and a number of a
n new publications. tl
on June 16. 1
re- f
Hiftory of Pennsylvania, i
" BY ROBERT PROUD, »
( TS l°w in the- press, and will be publiflied, T
r 1 with all convenient expedition, by ZtCHA- <■
riah Podlson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet, 1
where fubferiptions Will continue '
to be received, »nd at the Philadelphia Library, j
' „ according to the printed proposals, until the
e .. work is ready for the fubfcriberi.
j«iy »» tf ;
C 1 5, *
Printed Calicoes.
fof JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
ally Nt. 8 Cbefnut-Street,
and Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly aflerted, very low on
Ce- (hort credit.
Un - March 6. ■ § .
t0 Rifhard and James Potter
p Cr . HAVE remoyed their Counting House to No.
AS»South Fifth-ftrcet.
,uth '"B^ 1 »■ w&f6t
tot Lancaster, Harrijburgh Carlijie,
'rt" Shtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
ft to
pcr . public are requifted to take notice, that
A the partnerlhip which has f»r some time fub
non fitted betweSH Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
lion' William Geer, is now dissolved; bat, not as M.
Slough infinuatesto the public without just cause ;
" as will more fully appear by a letter on the lub
jeCt from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
111 December last a recital of which is not now deem
ed necelfary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
1 more circumstantially informed of the merits of
an f this business, by applying to W. Geer may ha«e
"J °'„ the perusal «f M. Slough's letter, and then can b«
nt '"J at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfectly juftifiahie in attaching him
y felf to any other person in the profeiution of the
s for gtagg conveyance from. Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
'» 0B Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
reets, this business, VTilliam Gees, in conjunction with
only. Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
nt to to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatch that a seal to oblige the pub
et to lie can poflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
rfeal- with carriage?, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the palfage fafe and nommodious, inform
:nd ef thofs wno wilb to patronise and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
weft George Weed's, the sign ofthe White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
' Carlisle and Shippcnfburg. The fare as hitherto
cftablilhed.
, For the further accommodation of the public,
,ne a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
,for g e of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Tburlday,
V' ne and return from thtoce and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so tkat paffengcrs deflined for
ul - Laccaftcror Philadelphia, may proceed oa Mon
days.
street, WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster. Jan. 1/97-
;et .of fj U This Line (»t Srages ftarta fr«hi tht
house of William Ferruc, in Lancaster, on every
ES. Tuesday and Saturday inorr.ing at 6 o'clock, pro-
Fifth cceding to the westward; and !{om the house of
Mr. Samuel KUUr in Harrifburg every Wecinef
ralnut day morning, 011 the fame evening ari ivss at Pa
trick Cochran's ia Shippenfburg, .and returns
d\nd from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its Wur li om Philadcl
im phia. - mwf
City of Wafliillgton.
J From
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
bjr the Improvement of the federalC't/y.
A magnified! tdwelling-houle »6,000 dollars,
ic cafli 3,0,000, ire j0.00.i
I ditto 1 j,OOO & eafh 15«0° 9 40,000
K ditto 15,000 & oafh 15, 000 30,000
1 (littp lO,CIOO & cadi 10,000 2(3,(t00
1 ditto 5,000 & calh S>" na 10,000 l-Ol
1 ditto 5,000 & cart) 5,000 io,iioo
i cash prize of to,ooo J
» do. 000 each, 1.-e ■ 10,000 *•
ro do. t.ooo - - v ■ xo.ooc 1
ae do. ,00 - - 10,000 j
00 do. ioo - - 10,000 (
too do. 50 - - 10,000 dr3w
400 do, ( ij - io.ooo
1.000 ,'(so. tO - *O,OOO j
15,0ck-' do. id - 159,000 j an
' • ' AI
15,7.W Priiei. Perk
jj,i6i Rlankt. draw
je,ooo Tickets, at Eight Basilar*, *OO,OOO Bills,
— utnio
N. B. TV>favour those who nvay taVe a qu»n- Ju
tity ot Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but one :
And approved notes, feeyring payment in either I
money or prizes, in ten days atter drawing, will
be received foi any number not left than 30 tick
ets. . A I
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen ef
the private buildings to be created in the City of C€.
Washington—Two beautiful designs are already ]
Icleiled for the entire fronts 011 two of the public
squares ; from these drawing* it ispropofed toereA
two centre and f our corner buildings as soon a* pos
sible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, io the fortunate adventurers, in Sold
the manner dcfcribed in the icheme (or the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduAion of five per cent. wjII J
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print-
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National University, to Adn
be erected within the city of Washington. ! er a j.
The real fecuritie*given for the payment of the I do \\,
Prizes, ire held btthr President and two DireA- : y
or» of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued.at a OO
more than half the amount ot the lottery. j t^C)
SAMUEL BLODGET. j aK p,
# § t Tickets may be had at the Bank ot Celery _
, bia ;of James Weft & Co. Baltimore ;of Feter >_
Oilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
. and of Ridiard Wells, Cooper's Ferry.
u
From the Otfego Herald. j l "'. 1
CAUTION. - Zt
WHEREAS a combination of men in tHt ' m! ,,
county have undertaken to enrich th«m- the i
' felvet, by fabricating title, to sundry valuable trads he I
t of land, the property living in New con
York, Philadelphia, London and Pari», for which wh
. tracfts of Is nd large funis of money have been paid for
s to those fraudulent men, by innocent purchafert |
s It is th«gfore just that public information Ihould . a °.
s be given, to the end, that the injured may feekre- i 1 '■
f dress while the risen have property, and are to be
l found. Those who have been discovered are Tru- t(j
e man Harrifon, Joseph Witcomb, said now to re- th( |
i- fije in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and dit
several othert who go under fictitious names. It it t |, {
■- supposed that the lands offered fcr sal« on thole fa- dir
>f bricated titles, are at lead worth fifty thousand ed
I- dollars. Such ai we have aflual knowledge of are the
>f as follows : Lots No. II and li, Otfego patent, j fuc
thousand acres each, the afiual property of William ,
Deilwyn, now of London ; lots No. 58 and 64, en
_ fame paten* thpuf«id acres each, the property of ivc
Mr. Chaumont, now of Paris, and lames Avenll
and others, ot tMi State. There it some grounds d *
j to suppose that the lands of Richard Wells and
Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their
t management.—'The Printers will do well to give
jg thi« a place in their papers, as well to caution the cu
public against purchafmg those lands, as also to de
• ' prive those men in future from imposing on indivi
duaft, which their education and addrelsJiave en- ; n
abled them to do heretofore. Witcomb hat been f,,
a shopkeeper of some note in this country. fit
The following affidavits will fct in a clear point re
of view the wickeduefs of those men, which when th
the public have perused, will indutc them to ex- hi
cufe the interference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July aßth, 1757- w
I Thomas Kclly.of the County of Otfego, hav- "
on ing been led into an error, by John Wittemb and j"
Truman Harrifon, of the fame County, to sign a '
deed to thwn, for lot No. 58, Otfego patent, which
was the property of Willi;»m ( Franklin now Mr.
Chaniont's and o'hers; and further the said Joseph
• and fruman did persuade me to do this against ray
inclination, which was made out on the icth day w
f of November, 1793, or set back iym years so as
to bring it to that time ; and further the name of A
, Pardon Starks to that deed wat a ti&itious namn, t |
there being no such perlon there. I o this I make b
voluntary oath. THOMAS KELLY. n
I9thjuly, 1797. "
Vn.&t 19th July, 1797, tame personally before o
me, i homas Kelly, the fubfenber to the above aJr- b
hat fidavit.and made fofemn oath that it contains 110th
ub- Jug fc-ut the truth.
and tLIHU PHINNEY, Jufticc ef the Peace.
M. On the 18th July, 1797, came bcfore 'me Jacob
ife ; Kibhy, a perfonby me well ki.own and worthy of [
uh- good credit, who on his solemn oath did lay, that
9th two of the parties abdVenientioned did make aj>-
em- plication to him this deponent, some time in the Q
•be winter of 1796, to make them a deed for two thou- £
i of sand acres of land in the Otego patent , and pro
ia*e mifed this deponent a Rare of the profits, on the
1b« falc of said lands, for his so doing ; and th-t they f
W. niadeapplicationfeveraitithei fontßefamc purpoe,
lira- which ferricts this depor.ent as often refufed, de
the clarrog to them that he kad no right Lauds, and ?
ens- could do no such thing ; which daring r.ttempt on 1
this deponent's integrity he had related among his r
the friends several limes, previout to making this ath- 1
tin davit;. JACOB KIBBEY. J
/vith Sworn before me, <
med ELIHU FHINNEY, Jnftice of the Peace.
, at- Aug. 3- ' aw 4"-
?üb " Thirty Dollars Reward.
ided TJ 1 tOPBD from the service of the fubt riber,
•e to ill on the 19th instant, a negro man by the
orm name of DICK, about twenty-five years of age,
the and Gve feet nine or ten inches high ; by trade
s at a carpenter, and is a very lively brilk work
orfe, man. His countenance it very good —When
fpoken t6, lie tonvijrfei with ease and confi
lur!?. dence, and is pretty fagftciout. I -purchafcd
icrto ,j, e faja/ellow »f Mr.Dubney Minor, in whole
] name he hit been advertised in the Richmond
ih!<c, pewfpapers. During hit lalt runaway trip (last
'? ufc fummcr) he was employed a considerable length
bun- 0 f t j me> by f omc person near Dumfries, from
! air ' which circumllance, I conjeaure, he has taken
, another nothei n route 1 forewarm all persons
.° r from him employment, of any kind
whatever, and maftersof veffeli othert, from
> carrying him out of thi» state. The above re
ward will bp given if he it taken within forty
miles of this city ; 4n additional sum, in
ver'v proportion to the diifance he inay be brought,
' or the trouble and expence the apprehender may
1:1 "ringing him to thi^ag.
t Pa. N. B. His apparel was of the usual negro kind,
urns but he; had more cloaths than is eu-ltomary for
' the them to poffels.
add- A.D.
/if Richmond, June 11, i"97-
Will be Landed,
From ©aboard the {hip A&ive,
Hambuigh,
20 bales white LlufTia clean Hump L. $
% tAiks Clover Seed
For .Sale by
Thomas Herman Leiiffer, ' t j, e
North Fifth (Ireet, No. 34- titi<
Tutic 16. aut
William Blackburn,
BROKER'S OFFICE " c
No. 64 *b\ith Second-street. il g
in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, wtkh 4t a
JL commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR 44 a
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in proper- 44 c
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac- « 4 i
count of the five firft drawn tickets prizes of 5
four thousand dollars each, on the last day oi u .
drawing. " I
Cteck Books kept for examination and reg;fter- « j
ing, in the Gana4, No. 2, City of Waihington, No. k (
2, and Paterfon potteries. (
Alio, tickets forfale in the Schuylkill bridge and t(
Perk.ortcn Bridge lotteriei, which wiil begin (i
drawing in the course of the simmer.
The business of a Broker in aH kinds of Stack,
Billss Notes, Lands, &c. tranfaAed with the
utmofl attention.
June 2 _ tu&f agi
' Erfkine's View of the War. p r '
JUST PUBLISHED, in:
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & C».
No 40 South Second street,
[Price .11 Centt]
A View of the Causes and Confeqmn- ~
ces of the present War with France.
Bv the Honorable Thomas Erikine.
May 1 s J (t
5 TATE TRIALS. 13"
Sold by W. Youwo, Bookseller, No. s*, Souih Se- 1 tr
eoßd-ftreet, _ [ th
The Pennsylvania State Trials, j w
Containing the impeachment, trial, and acquit- „
al of Franci»Hopkinf®n,'Judge of the Court of tl
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen- , (i
i tral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, ia>>o«rds, 3 ((
I dollars. ' <1
W. Youno hat for sale, a general aliortmentof
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack-
' «jre, well aflorted, and entitled to the drawback if
i aip»rted. • ]">Y 7-*
> | A" e'
rHF. SUBSCRIBER having been tppointed by t |
the Envoy Kxtr»ordinaiy and Mioiitet Pleni
potenti»ry of his Biitanuic MajeSy, General Agent
loi\alTifting Briiifh crcditort, and lueh particular a
ger.ts at they mty (pecially authorize, in profeeutiog ,
their claims before the c»mmiflioners for carrying in
to effeft the sixth artiele ot the Treaty of Amity, Com
-1 ' mtrce and Navigation kttwtin his Britannic K'.ajcJly and
■ \ the United Statu of America, hereby gives notice that
i he hat opened his office at his house the south call
r corner of Che(«ut and fifth ftieett, Philadelphia, r
1 where he it ready to receive all claims or inftiuflious t
I for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the purpple of bringing forwaid the fame agree- .
J ■ ably so the rules and ordert which the board may
' think proper to jifelcribe.
" ' And at it will be tor the interest of all eo«ceriied,
C that the several claims be so slated, and support, *
ed, at to prevent the delay which would aiife from I
the necessity of obtaining further inloimation, or ad- j
i ditional materials,from perlons reading at a diltance, ,
; the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the
" dircttiou chiefly of those, who, not having employ- ;
d ed pauicular tgentt, may leave the prolecution of
e their claims to his charge and management) that all
t, such claims ought in particular to fct forth—
n 1 ilt. The proper defcrip-.ion aod (itnation of the
(, ereditoror claimant, end or'gtnal debtor, refpeS
jf j ivcly. /
II ad. The date andnanare of the original contractor
j, debt.
,j 3d. When, in what manmer, and to what extent,
r the creditor or claimant wat prevented or impeded,
by the provision, operation or detect of law, the
decifiooi and prattice ol courts, or restraint of exc
-16 cution, from teeovering payment of the debt in
c . question.
4th Thelofs and damage incurred or sustained,
1" in corifequente of fueh impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen from the infolvenev, change of
situation, or deaih of the debtor, the loss of legal
nt remedy from kaple of time, or othercaufes impairing
sn the value and leeurity of the debt, which would nat
X- havefo oper»ted if such impediments had notexifled.
Andjih. The particular grounds asd rcafons on
which the claimant main'ains, in the terms of the
»_ treaty, that "by the ordinary course of judicial pro
nd i n K s ' the creditor cannot now obtain and actually *
j have and receive full and adequate eompentation" lor
1 the lodes and damages lofufiaiucd.
, C The general agrni thinks it his duty further to fug
u geft that the ftveral claims ought to be accompanied
and fnpporied by the affidavits of the claimants duly
n y sworn and regularly attefled, both as to the exiflencc
'J of the debts claimed, and such other circuoifl.incct
a * as may be within their own knowledge relpcftively.
And wherever the claimant! in dating the nature of
""i their evidence (which must in every instance be the
ike beftof which the cafe it capable) have occasion to
reset to the tellimony of witnefTes, it will be proper
to apprifethe general agent of the names and place
are of residence of such witnefTes and the faftito be efta*
as. blifhed by their tellimony.
th- Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia. June B'h. 1797. d
;„b For bale,
of That will known place, called Fahdrorifj'i
hat F f R R Y,
H 1 "" /"\N Nefhaminy creek, 18 miles from PhiU
the ladelphia, 011 the New York post roid,
™" containihg 74 acres and 94 perchet. Upon the
premifcs are a large two Itory stone houie occu-'
s pied as a tvern, and a good one ftorv i'one kit
chen, a large fratjte ftablc with a good threshing
je' floor, and l'ome out buildingt —also a well of
md g o °d water, and an excellent ice. House. On
„ n this place is a moll elegant situation fora gentle
his man s feat, view »f the Nefham
iffi- iny to its junflion vviih the Delaware, and thpnri.e
ac'rofs to the Jersey (hore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For termt apply to the Subscriber,
- MORDECAI LEWIS.
V»v 24- Jtawtf.
jer> COLUMBIA HOUSE
the Boarding School for young Ladies,
ige, ti ifRS. GKOOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ade IVI U r £ and refpefl, returns her ftneere ac
>rk" knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
hen she hat received during four years residence in
infi - Philadelphia; and aflures her friends and the
,rcd public, so far from intending to decline her
lol'e |- c hool, flie his made a ftipcrior arrangement for
ond t jj e mt , re convenient accommodation of her
,aft scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education it particularly attended to by Mrs.
•om, Grooinbridge and mafltrs excelling in»their
ken refpeiiiveprofffTiont.
r ? ns Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets,
L ' June ith, 1797- fimfrf
rom ThtTituatitm is healthy ; and made
re_ more agreeableby an cxtenfive garden and lot
3rt .) r of ground adjoiningthe house.
ght" Juji Published,
m*y And to be had of MefTrs. Bo!»fon, Campbell.Ricc,
Gary, and the other pricipaL Booksellers in t'u
5. city,price one dollar, twinty-fivc cents,in boards,
ind, ]sj ew ' Views of the Origin of the
for Tribes and Nations of America.
i. By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
June 20. ct
No. 183.
Diftricl as Penufyli'tinia, to tuii :
BE IT REMEMBERED, that on the
fifteenth day of June, in tlic twenty
firft year of the Independence of the United
States of America, J.amis Woodhousr, of
the said diflri<£i*.hatii ifcpofited in this office the
title &i a book, the whereof he claims a-s
author, in the words following, to wit :
" The Young Chemifl's Pocket Companion,
" being a Description of a Portable Labaratory,
" containing a Philosophical apparatus, and a
" great number of Chemical Agents, by which
" any person may perform an endless variety of
" amuiingand inftrudling Experiments,deCgn
" td for the use of ladies and gentlemen, and
" intended to promote the cultivation of the
" Science of Chemistry in the United States of
" America. BvJamf's YVooßhouse, M-D.
" Profeflbr of Chetriflry, in the University of
" Pfn.nfylvaqja, Prefidem of the Chemical So
" ciety of Philadelphia, &c..
" At prefrat every thing that is not denomif
" nated Cbemiftry, is but a ftnall part of a fyf
" tem of natural knowledge.
Pritflly on Air"
In conformity to the adl of the Gongrefs of the
United States, intituled, " An aft for the encour
agement of Learfiing, by fecming the copies of
maps, charts, and books to the authors and pro
prietors of such copies, during the times there
in mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of the
Diftrifl of P«nnfylvania.
July 18. d.lt —w«tf
No. 188.
Dijiriß of Ptnnjy/vania, te zvtt :
. s TIE IT REMEMBERED, that on the
* ' '' XJ twenty futh day of July, in the twen
( ty second year of the independence of the United
i States of America, John Fenno, of the said dif
triifl.hath deposited in this office the title of a book,
J the right whereof he olaims as proprieter, in the
I words following, to wit •.
j " Observations on certai* documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of " The History of the Uni
t" ed States for the year 1796," in which the charge
" of Speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, late
" Secretary of the Treasury, is stilly refuted—
f " W rittcn by himfeif "
111 conformity te 'he aft of the Congress of the
p Ucited States, enrituled, "An a<9 for theencour
agement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors an J propri
etors of such copies, during the times therein men*
' tioned'."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Cltrk of the D'jirici of Tcnnf^jlvania,
July If. \v4w
'■ ■ ■ ' .
" Public Notice is hereby given,
{ nnHAT at June term, 1797, a petition waa
,t JL presented to the Court of Common Pleas,
il «held »t Y»rk Town, in the State of Pennsylva
nia, at the instance «i James Short, praying
the Court to supply a loft deed made cer
'' tain Andrew Hickenluber, to Hugh Morrifon,
James Morrifon, and Jolm Sample, executor*
* to Hans Morrifon, deceased, stir fix hundred
I aeres of Land, situate in Meualle*
t. township, in the county of York —All per
il font who hive any objections to make to the ob
-- je<s\ bf the hid petitiom are desired to attend st
c i the Court Houie, in the towa of York, on the
ie _\th day of September next, otherwise the loft
': deed will be supplied.
JOHN EDIE, Clerk.
Jul} rig. y f"tS5
t- 30 Dollars Reward.
or
RAN away on Saturday last, two indented Ser
vants, Gilford Dally, a mulatto bo^.about 17
d, years of age, a Aim lijht built active ftllow, can
t>e read and write,five feet frven of tight inches high,
t- has a heavy countenance ; had on a fuftian coatee
in and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine shoes &c,
Allan Hellons, a black man, about 24 year.s'oT
d, age, five feet seven or eight inchesjiigh, a thick set
he dumfy built f»ll»w, particularly about the
had'on a faiior's blue jacket lined with fwanfcin,
dark striped vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
'K hat, coarl'e shoes, &c.; each of (heni had several
j' lhirtsand several other eloathes with them.. Thir
' ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or it dol-
lars for each, and reasonable charges, oh delivering
0 _ them at No. 54. North Third-street.
The I)lack fellow is about a year fpm Vewi*
or Town, in the County of SufTvX., state of Dela
ware, and has taken the boy with him.
ig. July 31." mtuJrf/iw
'y To be SOLD or RENTED,
\ t LARGE 3 Story Brick House, on the
j -£\ South fide of Filbert street, . betwci n
„[ Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Stir
he veyor General's Office.
to The Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet detp,
>er the lot Ilb feVt deep, with the privilege of 1 nire %
feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
**" the lot, to a thirty feet *idi Court for Carriage»
to turn in,' The House is n< ' ;»latlered, and
may be turned either into one, or two dwelling
Hobfes. It it suitable for a large Manufjflory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
t poiTefTion will be given.
r ' Apply to Ifo. HI, Chefnut-Street.
AHg. 11. cod4t.
It- ~.r .
1 ' 1 ' Mujical lntlrument Manufactory,
A'o. 167, Arch-Strict.
"j t _ T TARPER,liarpCchord.grand,portable gr: •d,
| fl fid:-board, pier table and squire piirc lorie
0 £ maker frona London, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, for their liberal encours^tPJent,
and hopes that by his alui'uity and at'entk n to ev
'e" ery branch of his buOncfs, to n crit a eortinuancK
m " of their favors. Piano fortes made or thr nevreft
ll '" e And moll approved plans, with p dais, pater!,
r S c fwcll, and French harp flop, which he fiftttis
himfeif .will i>e found on trial bjr unpfejediced
judges, to be equal if not superior to ar.y impc.rtv
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Anyiiif'ru
• m»nt purehafed us him, it Hot approved of .ft
twelve months, he wilt exchange.
N. B. All kinds of Mcficol lnftrumert's fade v
-S. uned, and repailet with the greatefl accurrcy,.
eaf- difpatib, and 011 the mod reasonable term , t,a
ac- ready money only.
e »t Second hind Piano Fortes taken in exchange*
(- j n Maytc ■* 6e lm .
the ~ •
her Forty Dollars Reward.
for T~) In Sway frotn the subscriber pu the fee
her onddayot' this inft. July, a Mulatto Man,
llte named VViil Bow zer, about forty years of age,
Irs. f, ve feet seven or eight inches high,, rather
le ' r chunky made ; had o» when he went away, 1
drab colored cloth coat, liriped purple tro» feis
W and jacket.* It is pt<,liable he will change his
eloathes, as he took a number witl: hi*n. The
a( ' e saul fellcrw formerly belonged to Mr- Charles
Bhke of this place; and it is expedled be
inad« towaids Jones's Neck, in the, Delaware
State.—Any perl'cm apprehending ibe feicl fel
low, and securing him lb that I car. get 11.m a
'lCC' gain, Ihall uiccive above reward if |akea
iXit of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
, the county, and all reafonabie charges if bro't
home
a. JESSE REED,
j, Qucco Ana'a Coupty, Maryland,
it July 3. wjt