tije MtlttCtl a b Philadelphia Daily Advertiser-.
f
Number 1487. j
For Sale,
The fine and remarkably fall
ir i"" a n Philadelphia
Burthen abouT 100 tons. For terms apply to
Rafs Simfon.
June I*. dtf
For St. Thomas,
TVS SKIP
nn Mar y>
Captcin Suns; ,
WILL (kit in ten 4ays. For
freight or passage apply to
F, COPPINGER.
Nq. 221, South Front Jlreet.
Jpbc 9. diot
For Sale,
ACT IV E,
On the acth inft. at the Coffee- !
Hcufe, at 7 o'clock, P. M, at the came from fca :
Ihc is known to be a fad sailer. Any .pa ttcular in
iormaMon may be had on application to Capt. Bing-
Jiam on boaid said brig, at MelT. J cite and Robert
,Wain's Wharf, to John Plankinhorn, or Thomas
stcwart. Inventory to be seen and terms of pay
ment to be made known at th« time of sale.
June 8. t(
For London,
WIIUJMPENN,
James 'fotiAtt, Majler.
WILL fail with all bonveaieut speed. For
freight or passage apply to
JeJje & Robert Wain.
May 19 • §
For Sale,
"The cargo of 'he trig Enterprise, Captain
Langdon from Bourdeaux, now landing at
Morton's wharf,
CONSXTING OF
524 hhds. of Claret S
21; cases of ditto -a "
100 cases of Sweet Oil • -|
too pipes London proof > „.. Nnv S g
10 pipes of Holland prpof )
Apply to
Wharton & Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
J-—* Said Brig,
WILL take a FREIGHT for
the Weft-Indies or Europe, fails
burthen about fifteen hun-
barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply as above.
May »4 §
For Sale cr Charter,
• THE SHIP
WARREN,
Benjamin Church, Majler.
.Qdj OF about jBo tons burthen. Eb
quire of
Je/fe & Robert Wain-
May a 6 {
For Hamburgh,
THK SH,P
E R I A L,
JohnTarris, master.
A GREAT of her cargo is ejijraged, and
she will fail in ten days. For freight or pas
sage apply to capt. Tarris, at Willing* & Francis'
wharf, or to GURNET & SMITH.
May %s §
For Freight or Charter,
To any part of Europe,
The Swedijb Ship
Alexander Magnus,
Capt. Carl G. Ehsman,
A BOUT 350 ton* burthen, in this pprt ; and
jHI jtlfo the Danifti Ship FREDERICK [UUUS
KAUS, of 450 tons,now lying: in Hampton Road?.
Apply to JOHN VAUGHAN.
May 26. tuthfjt
For Freight or Charter,
Brig Fame,
A FR ANCIS KNOX, Maftcr:
A flrong 9 excellent veflcl, has been just (heathedand
ready to receive a cargo. .She will carry ?>ooo bar
rels, has good accommodations so palTengers.
Apply to
Capt. Knox, or to
Kearny Wharton.
June 6. 6p
HAY. ~
\ Quantity of excellent Old and New Hay to
Xibe had at Peel Hall Farm on the Wiflahickon
Jtoad, about 2 miles from the City.
Also, A QUANTITY OF BUILDING STONE.
June 8 <6t
Window Glass,
Of Supeiior Quality, and cheaper thin any aihcr in
the City—
OP FAMOUS SIZES,
From Bby 6toig by >4,1
By the Tingle Box or Quantity, may be bad at the
S'oie of the Sublcribeu, coiner of Arch and Front-
Ureet.
"James C. tsf Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia. June 9, 1797. S iwmwftf
for sale,
A Pair of verj hindfome
Bay Horses,
Near Cxtcen hands high, well brokf, and per
fectly gentle. Enquuc at Mr. Kelfon't Habits,
Church-alley.
Also, for Salt,
A Chariot and plated Harness.
June 13. diop
To be fold,
Tbetime of aftout hearty young NEGRO MAN,
who has u) Wards of four ycuslo fcrve. Enquire
at Mo. 2;, Lock fuect.
Jut.e'l3. ii»w
PHILADELPH
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & ad proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4ih proof, in Hhd»
Oi.l Hock, in cales of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, us different lizes
Hazlennts, in socks
Whiting
W&4 { """
& Spaniih Brown J
For Sale by
P£TBR BLIGHT.
January 4 b.
Rofs & Simfon,
Bane for Sale,
A QUANTITY OF PRIME
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Liibon Wine in Pipei
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Casts
A few Quarter Chefls belt
Fresh Hyion and ) . a
Hyson Skin 5 1 tAS
Mufcoyado Sugars tn Hoglheads, and
Coffee in Tierces
March 7. ||tf
Houfhold Furniture.
NOW felling by private (ale, No. 17 D.ock
ftreet—confiftingot chairs, tablet, looking
glaffes, bureaus, hand and fire irons, bedsteads,
feather-beds carpets, bedding, window curtains,
bed and table lir.cn, kitchen furniture, kc. The
whole in good order, and has only been a few
months in use.
The sale to continue daily 'till the whole is fold.
June 2 §
St. Übes Salt.
300P bulhels St. Übes SALT, for sale hy
Philips, Cfamond, & Co.
June 12. 3t
Richard Bay ley & Co.
Late John Whitesides & Co.
No. 136 Market-Jlrttt,
HAVE received per the ship* William Penn and
Star from I .otidon, a larje and fafbionaWe as
sortment of the fallowing articles : viz.
Chintzes, and printed Cottons, of the newest
patterns
Furniture Dimities and Chijtjes
Ginghams, plain and figured,
Muslins, printed and emSroider'd
Do. tambour'd, plain, check and ftrip'd
Do. tnmhomed, of a very superior quality
Fine Book, Jaconet and Decca Handkerchiefs
Dimities and muflinets
table-linen, in setts and in the piece
Diaper ditto in Cloths and in ditto
Holland and Ruflia Sheetings
Loop'd Hollands and Irish Linens
Long Lawns and Cambrics
Sattins and Silks, plain and figured
Ribbons and Glovtl
Crapes and Gauzes
Straw, Chip, and Paper Hats at)d Eonnets, new
ihapes
Fancy trimmings, &c.
With a variety of articles in the Linen-Drapery (
ani Haberdalhery line.
May 22 §2ot
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Cbefnvt-Strett>
Have for
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly aflorted, very low on
(hort credit.
March 6. §
Pennfy 1 vaniaPopulation Company.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Share Hold
ers, that a further aflfcffinent of nine DOL
LARS is levied oa each share, payable as follows,
viz.
Six Dollars immediately, and
Three Dollars on t(ie ift of July next.
Which they are refuelled to pay to the Treafu
rcr of the Compapy, at the Company's Office,
No. 53, North Fourth-street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
infoimed, that on their negleifting to pa the
fame as above direded, tjie fevera I forfeitures
will be exacted.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MAKACHE, Treifurer.
May 17. d3ot
Just Arrived,
In the schooner Dove, Captain Patil, from St
Thomas, and for sale by the fubferiber.
Mufcov.ido Sugar in hhds- tierces and barrels.
St. Croix Rum in hhds.
And Laguira hides.
also on hand,
Imperial, Hyson, apd Sherry and Malaga
Hyson Skin Teas. Wines.
Yellow Nankeens. Holland Gin in pipes.
Canton Clath. Do. Cheese.
Liiteftrings. Do. Glal's ware.
Silk Hankercliiefi. China Ware.
Se\yingSilk. Window Blinds.
Cotton in bales. Kheubarb.
Peruvian Bark. Quicksilver, 4«c.
, JOSEPH SIMS.
May aid. dt4t.
Grattan and Comp.
REfpeflfully inform their friends, that they have
imported from London per the (hip Star, a
large assortment of
PERFUMERY,
Which is now opened for sale at their House, N«.
19) Market-ftrcet.
Also, a new afToituicnt of ready-made gentle
man's linen, shirts from 1 dollar* each to 8 dollars,
&c. &c. &«.
Ladies and gentlemen are accommodated with
board and lodging a: ten Dollar* each.
Tnofe Gentlemen who have their own private
lodgings, may be accommodated with dinner only,
by tie week or month.
_ Juo=_J ' <t
The Subscriber,
Determined to retire frombufinefs, invites all
who have any no:e, bill, bond or acceptance
of hi», now due, to call for payment ; and those
who wi!h to anticipate may receive the money
at A reasonable diicouut.
JAMES SWAN.
May 22. diw.
Dorchester, near Bofto/i, ifith May 1797,
By John Fenno, N°" 119 Chefnut Street.
A : WEDNESDAY EVENING, JUNE 14, 1797.
NOTICE.
THF eo-pinn vftiip of William Young, John Mills,
and John Mi fs, Jan. Hookielk"! and* Stationers, uu>
der the firm of W. Young, ?.1111 s and Son, is this
day diiiolvrd by mutual consent. Aljperfons indebted
to fcht copauncifhip are reqqefled to make payment
to William Young, and ih.ofe having demands are de*
fwed to produce their accounts for fettlcment.
William Young,
John Mills,
"John Mills, jun.
Philadelphia, June 6th, 1797.
W. Y O U N G
Continues the book Celling and iHtiona-y bufmefs at
the usual place, wholesale and retail, where he has
now a very large a(Tortcncnt of
tVriting. and Printing. Papers and Boohs,
Of which cataloguei wiih the prices affixed are de
livered gratia-
Wanted,
A person well qualifird in the bookfeJling and sta
tionary buflnefs. Applications will be receivr-i til!
the firft July nexr, at No. sa, south Second-ftieet,
corner of Chefuut-flrect.
June ,6. « d7p
Just Received,
From Batavia (via Providence) "
170 Sacksof Java CoflFee of fir 11 quality
300 hall sacks do. do.
a few Bom9of Spices, confuting of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
For sale by
KILLINGS &' FRANCIS,
Pcmwftreet.
__Mayjo dtf
For Sale, a tie-w threeJlory Brick
House.
AT the Merchants Coffee House, on Friday
next, the i6th inft. at half past 8 o'clock
in the evening, will be fold by Public Vendue,
a genteel three story brick House ; it is pleasant
ly lituated on the South (ideof Arch Street, the
fourth house above Fourth street.
It may be viewed any time before the sale.
Terms are, one fourth in approved notes of
6o days, and the refldue if required may remain
seven years, on ftcurity and interest annually.
Sold clear of all incumbrances, and immedi
ate pofleflion may be jjiven.
Further particulars will be made known at
the time of sale, dy
Richard Footman Ess Co.
Auctioneers.
June ii. d^t
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sharehold
ers, that a further aflefihient of fifteen
dollars is levied on each (hare, payable in the
following instalments—viz.
One quarter immediately.
One quarter on the ill of Junty
One quarter ou the jft September.
One quarter on the ift Dec. next.
Which they are.requested to pay to theTrea
furer of the Company at the Company's Office,
No. 53 north Fourth street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed that on their to pay the
fame as above dife&ed, the several forfeitures
directed by the Ccnftitution, willl be exacted.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MAUAQHE,
s Vreafuret.
May i; jim
To be Sold,
A large and convenient
Three Story Brick House ;
SITCI xTE at the north-cast corner of Ajch and
Fourth-ftrects. It.contains eighteen rooms—
and is in every icfpeil well fiuiflieil. For particu
lars enquire of
M. Kcppcle,
No. 138, Chefnut-Hreet.
May 3 J. f
Erikine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 Squ:h Second street,
TPrice 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May '5 |}
Maurice Moynihan,
No. 81, Nerlh SecondJlrett,
A few doors above Arch-street,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
for wholesale or retail, on the lowuft terms, a
general assortment ®f Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
tumbt«r», plain and flowered quart, pint, half pint
gill and half gill do. ex a (ft nieafurea, decanters and
wine glaflcs ; gallon, half gallon, qtinrt and pint
bowls, and chii a in sets and separate ; pecket
bottles: Schuyikill aird Jersey country quart and
half gallon bottles; Dry Goods, &c.&c.
N. B. Crates put up with care at the (horteft no
lic«.
May 11 dtf
JOHN CRAIG
HAS just imported from Rotterdam, via St.
Thomas, and far sale on reasonable terms
by the package ,
Platillas Royal
Haerlctn and German linens
Rouens
Post and ProPatria Paper
Wafers
Quills
Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles
Coffee Bags
He has also for Sale,
Best Red Clover Seed
Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate life
TenerifTe Wine of firft and second Quality
Coffee in Gags and HogCheads
Jamaica Spirits
Conneflicut Turpentine Soap
•Window Glass
Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Cotten
liofiery
April 18. 4^w
wanted 7
ABOUT »oo tons of freight, for any port
in Sptiii, or tbe Mediterranean in a neu
tral bottom. Enquire of JAMES YARD
June 7. 7t
For Sale,
' "r 1 viE unexjured time of a I'kely Negro
I. Girl, about 10 yeai, olci, w(jo has upwards
[ ps ii years to serve. She is ef a good
t and very Imirt, a£live and ufcful in a family.
Apply at No. 149 South front, or 35 Union
llreet. June to —'mofif
The sale of 40931 1-2 acres of
Land on the waters of Whealing and Filhing
Creeks, in Walhingtnn county, jdvertifed for
15th inft. is postponed to a future day, of which
due notice wdl l>e given, if a private sale docs
t not take place. 3t
, June 12.
Poft-Office, 23d May, 1797.
THE Mail for Baltimore will be closed at this of
fice every marn;ng (Sundays excepted) at half past 7
o'clock.
The Mail for Boston will be closed every day
(Sundays excepted)at 12 o'clock noon ; and
| The Mail for Frederica, Milford, Clowes, Dagjfbo
rough, Delaware, Hcntown, Accomack Court-House
» and Northampton Court-Houie, Virginia, wilt be
closed every Monday morning at halt paA 7 o'clock.
May 23 *i2t
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
(Neatly boundand lettered,price a dols. 25 cts.)
By G. DECOMBAZ,
BOOKSELLER STATIONER,
No, 48, Norih Third Street,
Ihe Jltiventures of Telnnachus.
French and fyiglifli, a vols. iioio.
AMONG the books Which daily fall into the
liaods of the youth of both fixes, none
have a higher claim to their attention than Tele-
The malt interesting leflons arc here
conveyed in the vehicle of an interesting Poem,
replete with the fineft touches of die true pa
thetic, and embelllhed with *ll the graces of a
beautiful style. The fatal eftcdls ot indulging
' the paflious *re exemplified in the moll linking
manner ; and the kappinefs atte iding inno
cence and virtue painted in the liveliest colours.
Whatever can incite to virtue or deter from
. vice; whatever can enlighten the understand
ing, charm the imagination, and improve the
heart, is to be found in this interesting work.
THE NAVAL~GAZETTEER;
Being a complete Geographical Dictionary,
containing a full and accurate account, alpha
betically arranged, of all the countries and ill
ands in the known world ; Ihowing their lati
ude, foundings, and ftationa for anchorage ;
with a particular description of the feveralßays,
Capes, Channels, Coves, Creeks, Currents,
Gulfs, Harbours, Havens, Lakes, Oceans, Ra
ces, Rivers, Roads, Rocks, Sands, Shoals,
Sounds, Straits, Tides, Variation of the Com
pass &c. Together with a particular relation
of the lhape and appearance at sea, of the fevs
ral Headlands, Isthmuses, Peninsulas, Points,
Promontories, and whatever is of use or impor
tance to the Master, Pilot, Commander, or
Seaman ef any fbip or vessel, in navigating the
watery element.
Also Comprehending
Ample Dirediions for tailing into or out of the
different Ports, Strait?, and Harbours of the
four quarters of the world ; and for avoiding
dangers on the varieiw and extended coalts ; in
whieh more than twelve thousand diftin<£l names
of places, are treated «f and explained. With
a correflfct of Charts, i vols. Bvo. price 6 dols.
By the Kcv. JOHN MALHAM,
g? This bas been pronounced the mod ufe
fuland the cheapest book ptibliflied in America.
June g. dtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GKOOMBRIOGE with much pleaf
'urtand refpeft, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
Ihe has received during four years reCdence in
Philadelphia ; aad assures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, (he ha* made a iuperior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars. —Every branch of ufcful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and mafttrs excelling in their
refpeflive proWlions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. fimftf
The Gtuation is perfectly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
For Sale,
ON board the (hip Mollv, John Frost, mailer
frsm Liverpool, laying at Walnut-street whsrf
6000 bushels of fine ftoved Salt,
And QUEEN'S WARE, w<ffl alToned,
By PHILIP NICKLIN & Co.
WHO IN STORE, ALSO FOR SALE,
100 Boxes WhiteHavanna Sugars
Imperial and > ~
Hylon jj 1 e a s
17 tubs Quick Ijlver
ichrtts Handanno Handkerchiefs
A few cbefts Manchefler Goods well assorted
in corduroys, thicklcts, ginghams, muflinets,
dimities, #cc. 2 Trunks black sewing fi!k,
180 Crates queens ware, well assorted,
10 Tons flieet lead,
Nails aflbrted, flat and (harp points,
London particular and ) Madeira Wine in
India market $ pipes and hbds.
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Teneriffe Wine,
10 pipes choice Port ditto,
31 talks yellow paint,
7 boxes jj bundles writing slates,
1 box ink-Hands & note presses,
Sail canvas aflbrted No. 1 a 8.
May 4- 4 dtf
Millinery Room.
No. 136 Market-Jtreet.
MISS CURYRTAL
TAKES an carlropportunity of acquainting
her Friends tnat lh" has received by the
William Ptnn, a variety of NEW MIL
LINERY, &c. which (he hopes to be able to
fccw them in a few days.
May 18 }3ot
A FEW BOXES OF
Bologna Saufap.es,
or a Superior quality.
To be fold at Nu. 199 Sooih F/onu: tree'.
Aprjlso, cots
The Commissioners
carrying int« effefl the TWi NTT'FtP.a'j
-t. Article of the Treaty of Friendftiip, l,ihiir-.
and Navigation, between His Catholic Majells
and the United states of America, hereby giveift
f-rmation -to'aUPetfons the>ein tfonccrncH
in order to terminate a'l d fferenees, on nccoutiiCef
'he leffes filftained by tlie Citizens of the United
States, in confeqn-nce of their Vessels and Car
goes bating b-tn taken by the Subjects of His Cath
olic Majefly, during die late War between Spain
and France, that they are ready to nceivc (at thcir
O(fic?, between the hours of ten anil one o'clock,
daily) all complaints and application, authorised
by the said Article, during F.iduT-tcN Morten?,
lrom the day of the date hereof, and that they have
power to examine all fych persons as tome before
theni, on oath or affirmation, touching the coni
p'o/nu In quefiion, and also to receive in cvidehca,
ail written teflimony, authenticated in such man
ner as they (hall think proper to require or admit.
By Order of the Commijfiiners,
PETER LOHRA,
iSecretary. %
C mmi/Jionrrs Office, Ao. 109, Mulberry
reet, Philadelphia, May I'jth, 1797.
3°— i*w
The Commissioners
■pOR carrying into efferft the sixth article of tlie
i. treaty of amity,commerce and navigation, con
cluded between his Brit.nnic majtfty and the United
States hi Aiftci-ica, on tile 19th day ef November,
1794, having this day. constituted their Board)
pursuant and agreeably to the said treaty, do here -
by give notice, that they are ready to proceed 10
hufinefs accordingly ; ard they desire that all claim,
under the said article (which so far as the fane de
scribes the cases thereby provided for, is hereunto
annexed) may be lodged witluheirSecretary with
out delay.
rhcy further desire all such claims may not
only state in what manner the several cases com-:
within the defcriptlon of thr said article, but also
specially set forth ,lie nature of the evidence by
which the claimantsrefpeitively undertake tofub
ftamiate the fame.
fixiradl from the said article,
" Whereas it is alledgcd by divers British mer
" chants, and others his raajefty's fubje#s, th»t
" to a confid rabla amount, which wrre bom
" fide contradled, before the peace, still remain
" owing to them by citizens or inhabitants of the
" XJnited States; and that by the operation of va
" rious lawful impediments, since the peace, not
" orjy the full recovery of the said debts has 'been
" delayed, but also the value and security thereof
" have been in several instances impaired and less
" enad, so that by the ordinary course of judicial
" proceedings, the British creditprs cannot now
" obtain and aftually have and receive full and
" adequate compensation for the loffis and dama
" ges which tney have thereby fuf ained : It is a
" greed that in all such cases where full compenfa
" tion for such ioffes and damages cannot for what
" ever reason be ailually obtained, had and recei
" ved by the said creditors in the ordinary courfc
" of justice, the United States will make fall aut
" complete compensation for the fame to the said
'* creditors : but it is diftindlly underfiood, that
" this provision is to extend to such losses only as
" have been occafioncd by the lawful impediments
" aforefaid, aad is not to extend to losses oecafion*
« ed by such insolvency of the debtors or other
" eaufes, as would equally have operated to pro
" duee such loss, if the /aid impediments had not
exifced ; nor to such It-nes or damages rs have
" boeo occafioncd by the tnanifeft delay, orncdi
'• teucc, or wilful omiflibn of the claimant."
By order of the Hoard,
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secretary.
Philadelphia, Commissioners' Office, '«
No. 3 iouthSixth-ftreet, May 29,
rW
f 'HE SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
1. the Envoy Extraordinary and Miniller Pleni
potentiary of Ilis Britannic Majcfty, General A tent
lor affixing Brmth creditor!, and such particular «-
gents as they may specially authorize, in profccuting
their claims before the csmmiffimtrj for tarryi,i K i„-
to effrft tkc sixth article ot the Treaty of Amity, C om .
mcrccand Nu ligation between his Britannic Majesty and
the United States «/' America, hereby gives notice that
he has opened hisoffi e at his lioufe the I'outli call
corner of Chefnut and fifth streets, Philadelphia,
where he is rendy to r.ceivc all claims or infix uftioul
lor claims witb the vouchers and documents thereol,
lor the purpole of bringing forward the latne agree
ably {o the rules »nd orders which the board may
think proper to piefcribe.
And at it will be tor the interest of all concerned,
that the several claims be so fitted, and support.
td, as to prevent the delay which wouiil arise from
the neccffityof obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials,from persons residing it a diitance
the general agent thinks it hit duty to add, (for the
dircftioii chiefly of thofc, who, not having employ
ed particular agenis, may leave the prosecution of
their claims to Ins charge and management) that all
such claims ought in pirticuiarto set forth
iff. oefciipiion and function of tha
creditor or claimaot, end origiutl debtor, refpe£U
ively.
ad. The date or nature of the original contractor
debt.
3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimaot wi.s prevented or impeded,
by the provision, operation. or deleft of Itw, the
decifiontand piaftice of courts, or ledraint of exe.
cution, from tacovering payment of the debt in
queftlon.
4th. The loss and dtmage incurred or fu flamed,
in consequence ot Tircti impediment!, whether the
fame may have arisen from the inlolveiiev, change of
fnuation, or death of the debtor, the loss ot legal
ictnedy from lipfeoftime, or other caufci impairing
the vahie and security of the debt, which would n it
have so operaied it such impediments had notexifled.
Ands'h The p»iiis«lai ground! and reafoni on
which the claimtot mtimains, in the teims ol the
ireaty, that " by the ordinary course of judicial pro
ingt, the Creditor ctnnot now obtain and aflunliy
have and receive full and adequate compensation" lor
the losses ai d damages lb futtauied.
Tie general ag.-n; thinks it his duty further to fng
(reft thtt the f'veral claimt ought to be accompanied
and lupporied by th« affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly atiefted, both as to the exiffena*
of the cftimed, and such other circumflancci
at may be withm their own knowledge relpeftively.
And wherever the clfimanti in (latinj the natuie of
ibeir evidence (which mud 111 everv inlttnce be the
best ot which the cale is capable) have oecafion to
refer to the tellitnony of witnelCes, it will be ore.per
to apprise the genera! agent of the nimet and places
ot relidene* ofiuch witneffei and the fafl.uo be efta
blifhcd by their teflimony.
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June 8 h, 1797. dim
New-England Rum,
In Hoglheada and Barrrla, forfait bv
EZEICIEL HAIX.
Ju»« 7- 4«.
[Volume XI.%fy<swt te*
PHILADELPHIAV ' !
V.'FDNfiSDAY EVENING, JVSt »4.
Wy —wt wtfli tl I '
MESSAGE
*ROM THH PRESIDENT OF THE U. STATES.
Gentlem nof the Senate and *' ■
Soufi of Hep rt/entativeSi
I HAVE received information from the !
Commiffiooer appointed on the part of the
United States, pursuant to the 3d article of
our Treaty with Spain, that the running
Bnd marking of the Boundary Line between
the Colonies of Ealt and Welt Florida, and
the Territory of the United States, haVe ■
been delayed by the Officers of his Catholic !
Majesty, and that they have declared their
intention to maintain his jurifdidtion, and to '
suspend tile withdrawing histroops fromthe 1
Military posts they occupy within the terri- '
tory of the United States, until the two
Governments (hall, by negociation, have 1
fettled th; meaning of the 2d article refpedt- '
ing the withdrawing of the troops, garri- '
•fans, or settlements of either party in the '
territory of the 1 other; that is, whether :
when the Spanish garrisons withdraw, they
are to leave the works Handing or to demo
lish them, and until, by an additional article 1
to the 1 rcaty, the real property of the in- 1
habitants shall be fee u red, and likewise until '
the Spanish Officers are sure the Indians will
be pac:Sc. The two firft questions, if to be '
determined by negociation, might be made
lubjsdts of diicufljon for years, and as no li- 1
rotation of time can be prescribed to the
Other, a certainty in the opinion of the '
Spanish Officers, that the Indians will be !
pacific, it will be impossible to fuffer it to re%
main an cbftacle to the fulfilment of the
Treaty on the part of Spain. ]
To remove the firft difficulty, I have de- j
termined to leave it to the discretion of the
Officer's of his Catholic Majesty, when they
withdraw his troops from within the terri
tory of the United States, either to leave
the works standing, or to demolish them.—
And to remove the second, I shall cause an
assurance to be published, and to be particu
larly communicated to the Minister of his
Catholic Majesty, and to the Governor of
Louisiana, that the settlers or occupants of
the lands in question, shall not be disturbed
in their possessions by the troops of the Uni
ted States ; but, on the contrary, that they
shall be protedted in all tneir lawful claims,
and to prevent every doubt on this point, it
merits the consideration of Congress, whe
ther it will not be expedient immediately to
pass a law, giving positive afTurances to those
inhabitants who by fair and regular grants,
or by occupancy, have obtained legal titles
or equitable claims to lands in that country,
prior to the final ratification of the Treaty
between the United States and Spain, on
rhe 25th of April, 1796.
This country is rendered peculiarly'valu
able by its inhabitants, who are represented
to amount to nearly four thousand, gene
rally well affedted and much attached to the
United States, and zealous for the establish
ment of a government under their authority.
I therefore recommend to your considera
tion, the expediency of eredting a govern
ment in the Diftridt of the Natchez, similar
to that established for the territory North-
Weft of the River Ohio, but with certain
modifications relative to titles or claims of
land, whether of individuals or companies,
or to claims of jurisdiction of any indivi
dual State.
JOHN ADAMS.
United States, June 12, 1797.
CONTINUATION OF
Foreign Intelligence,
From London papers hy the Telemachus•
HAMBURG, Ap,il 18.
Our letters from Vienna» dated the illh
inft. (late as follow :
The unf rtunate situation ef this capital and
of our affairs is daily encreafing, the Areh
duke Charles hns, found himfelf obliged
by the great Superiority of the French to re
treat behind Bruck on the Murr, in Styria,
about 16 or 18 miles diltant frotn that place.
The Republicans have taken pofTt ffi >ll of
Klagerifurthj and according to a prevailing
report, even of Graetz the capital of Styria
Tliey pdifuethe Archduke veryjclofel) . The
in habitaints of this city have offered to oc
cupy and defend tbe lines near Vienna, and
all their fcrvant snd other people they employ
ire to march against the enemy, under the
orders of the Prince of Wirtembergli, late
Governor of Graetz. In order to preveut
the Trench from rendering themselves ma
de rS of the Dsnube, a camp of 12,000 men
is to be formed near Lintz. The English
and Ruffian Envoys make the neeeffary pre
parationt for quitting this capital in cafe of
need. The empress, the archdukes, &c. are to
proceed eithei to Olmutz Wto Prague, whi
ther the Archives, precious effedts, &c. are
likewise feot.- Some French spies were lately
arrested at a small diltance from. Vienna
In Tyrol affairs have suddenly taken a
better turn. Tb?Auftri»ns reentered Botzen
on the 4th inft aud Btixen on the 6th. The
French are every where retreating in Tyrol
to join their.troops in Carinthia and Styria.
But this retrograde movement may perhaps
also be occasioned by the great armaments in
Tyro', where 40,000 peafents are under arms;
fothat it might be possible to cut oft" Buona
parte's army, if it were not too strong.
"Meanwhile, proposals of an artoiAice have
been made to Buonaparte, which be has how
ever rejected, declaring at the fame time that
J>? was only authorized to conclude a peace.
H's proposals were however too humiliating
for the House of Austria, and were corvfe
quenily rejeflcd; but at the fame time coun
terpropofjtions were traafmitted to Buonspar
te, whofc ar.fwcr i* not yet arrived."
LONDON, April 17
Admiral Gravina is arrived at Cadiz, to
take the command of the Spamfli £c;t, — 1
which was to fail about the 3d in 11. 1
Buonaparte is marching to Vienna with
out meeting with any ebltacles in his \v?.y, 1
and there is no army which can* chock his c
progress. He fays in a letter of the 3d in- t
ftant, that he was thin 28 leagues difUnt 1
from Vienna, where he hoped to arrive oft ;
the 9th. :
The king of Sweden has permitted all <
forts of grain to be exported from Sweden, t
Letters from the frontiers of Suabia, of 1
the 2d inft. mention a contribution having j
been laid by the French 011 the town of Bot- J
Zen, of three, an J, according to others, of ]
fourmillions of livres. 1
From the Completion of several popular <
Meetings, one should fuppofc that their ob- !
jedt was rather confufion than peace. The >
language held on these occafiion has been <
better calculated to procrastinate the desire- '
able event, than accelerate its conclusion ; ;
it is rather inviting the enemy to hold out
exorbitant terms, than to propose such as
are likely to procure a lasting peace, which
is the avowed, though not the true object
of some of these Meetings. We are perfua- 1
ded that many gentlemen who give their ■
fandtion to them, do so from the best and :
purest motive; but they are not aware per- '
haps, that to force Petitions of this "fort on '
his Majesty, especially pending a negocia- < '
tion, must tend to give confidence to the e- 1
nemy, while it weakens the energy of our '
own Government. 1
The Vengeur privateer, lately taken from
the French by the Vestal frigate, is fuppo- 1
fed to have made more captures than any 1
ship during the war.
The Batavian Convention have, appointed ■
a Council of war to try Admiral Lucfts, :
and the reft of the officers of his fleet, late- ■
ly returned from the Cape of Good Hope. ]
Letters from Rio de Janeiro, of the 24th
Odt. 2, state French frigates and a brig to 1
have been cruizing off that coaff, and to 1
have captured One English and several Por- j
tuguefe vessels.
On Saturday seven foreigners, Appre- ■
hended at a gaming-house, in Panton
ftreet, were examined at Bow-street. Sever- |
al persons appeared to the charadter of four j
of them, who were in confequenceliberated; j
two others were ordered to remain in cufto- '
dy, till some persons of refpedtability should ;
vouch for their good condudt; and the se
venth was ordered to leave the kingdom, un
der the provisions of the Alien Bill.
The great Tunnel of the Worcefterand
Birmingham Canal is finifhed; it is upwards
of a mile and a half in length; vessels
of 80 and 100 tons pass and repafs through
it; it has been nearly three years building.
In the Sitting of the Council of Five
Hundred the Bth inft. Delarue denounced
the atrocities which the Jacobins, headed
by the Commissaries of the Directory, had
committed in order to drive the good Citi
zens out of the Primary Assemblies. This
denunication was followed by a very violent
debate; at the close of which the Couacil
resolved, that a message should be sent to
the Diredtory, desiring information of the
measures adopted to prevent and check the
like disorders ; which resolution renders the
Directory at once Judge and party.
Camus having in the fame Sitting been
censured by Dumolard for having illegally
granted 750,000 livres in specie to the
Minister of General Police, was forced to
confefs, that it had bein done for the pur
pose of enabling the latter to pay the
Emissaries of Government to influence and
diredt the eledtions, The lift of candidates,
Ex Members of the Convention, which was
sent Belgium to cause them to re-eledtsd,
consisted mostly of Jacobins, as Poulain,
Granapre, Fourcroy, Goupillon de Font
ney, Delmas, Matthieu, Treilhard, and
Richard, The reft belonging to what is
called the party of the Belly (du ventre),
whichof late has adopted Jacobinprinciples,
in order to support the Diredtory. To this
party belong Berlier, Cambaceres, Dannou,
Jard, Ponvillien, and Quinette. Not one
single moderate was on the lift which shews
the system and sentiments of the adtual Go
vernment of France; but to Judge by the
Eledtors chosen in Belgium it should seem
that the aim of the Diredtory will be frufta
the, and that none but men of moder
ate terms and pacific sentiments will be cho
sen Deputies by the Belgians.
The Resolution of the Council of Five
Hundred, which binds the Eledtors to pro
mife'attachment to the Republic, was vig
orously opposed in the Council of Elders by
Troncon du Condrai, Portalis, Dumas,
Barbe Marbois, and other celebrated ora
tors. A nominal appeal having been called
for, 114 votes were in favour of the Refolu,
tion, and 94 against it; so that it was adop
ted with the small majority of 20 votes
LONDON, April xB.
Five of the seven deputies of Paris are men
' of known patriotism ; the two are at lealt equi
vocal.
Bonnieres was an advou'.: to the ci-devant
parliament of Paris ; a man of fiiperfitial know
ledge, an indifferent writer, and a verbose
orator: he is known to be an enemy to the re
volution, and to have entertained a correfpen
dence with the ci-devant courtt d'Arto's during
the eonflituent aflcmbly. A letter of his to
d'Artois Was intercepted by the Canute du Se
, chtrcbes ; and Bonnieres was screened by the
interference of a private friend who had influ
cste on the committee—Bonnieres was the
1 counsel of M. d'Artuis, and of mod of the
princes and great fatnil'e. of the French nobili
ty ; he was etefled miirber of the second na
' tional assembly, but refufed to aefcept. Howe
ver, as he is a time-serving man, and above all
things consulting his own intceft, he may,
' without having altered his principles; be new a
ftrenuotis supporter of the present confutation ;
t and it is in that way alone, and from his proba
ble profefKoiv ef republic.liifm in tha popular
assemblies, that we may account for his late no
mination.
Murinais is a ci-devant noble, a good officer
of cavalry, a vrry violent member of the cote
' drei: in the conftiiuent assembly, a man of r.o
common ability, and of inflexible character.
No- public event has taken place, either
> at hcmk or abroad fir.ce the commence
ir.ent of tlio «rar, tv.wjvcr *.ifa/orable it F
may have be*n to the national pr jfperity, | bi
which has not been salfely commented on I
anil 'nduttrioufly exaggerated by the prints I
devoted to oppoiition, to gratitify the ha- ii
tred and jealousy of the Party against Ad- ii
miniftratiori. Steady to this principle of t
gross misrepresentation, a trturnmg paper of t
yesterday has seized with avidity the recent f
■discontent manifeftedbythefeamen on board f
the Grand Fleet, and has/ with its accuf- c
tamed malignity and falfehood, made it the t
ground work of a molt violent inteftivc a- r
gainst bis Majesty's ministers. But as the r
plain statement fafts could not authoaize r
the inferences which the writer _wifhed to
establish, he. found it necessary to ftiift his !
ground, rnd afTert that the discontent arose t
from the wages of the men being one year in c
arrear, whereas it is positively known, that f
it has been only produced by a demand for
an increase of pay in future. £
LONDON, April 25. <
TO THE RIGHT HON. THE LORDS COMMIS- 1
SI ON ER S OF THE ADMIRALTY. 1
We, the seamen and mariners in and be- I
longing to his majesty's fleet now lying at 1
Spithead, have received with tlieutmoft satis- 1
faftiori.and with hearts full of gratitude,the <
bountiful Augmentation of Pay and Provi- '
fions which your lordships have been pleafcd 1
to fignify shall- take place in future in his
majesty's royal navy by your order, which 1
has been read to us this morning, by the
command of admiral lord Bridport.
Your lordships having thus generously
taken the prayer of our several petitions in
to yo*r serious consideration, you have given
fatisfaftion to every loyal and well-disposed
seaman and marine belonging to his majesty's
fleets ; and from the assurance which your
lordships have given us refpefting such other
grievances as we thought right to lay before
you, we are thoroughly convinced, should
any real grievance or other cause of com
plaint arise in future, and the fame be laid
before your lordships, in a regular manner,
we are perfectly fatisfied that your lordships
will pay every attention to a number of brave
men, who ever have and ever will be true
and faithful to their king and country.
But we beg leave to remind your lordships
that it is a firm resolution, that until the
flour in port be renewed-, the vegetables and
pensions augmented, the grievances of pri
vate fh'ps be redressed, an act pafied, and
his majesty's gracious pardon for the fleet
now lying at Spithead be granted, that the
fleet will flot'lift an anchor ; and this is the
total and final answer.
BY THE KING.
A PROCLAMATION.
For pardoning such seamen and marines of
the squadron of his majesty's fleet Ration
ed at Spithead, as have been guilty of any
aft of mutiny or disobedience of orders,
or any breach or neglett of duty, and wito
shall, upon notification of such proclama
tion on board their refpeftive ships, return
to their regular and ordinary discharge of
their duty. » '
GEORGE R.
Upon the report of the lords commission
ers of the admiralty, of the proceedings of
the seamen and marines of the squadron of
our fleet ftationcd at Spithead, and of the
measures taken by the said lords commission
ers in consequence thereof; and in order to
manifeft our desire to give due encourage
ment to all those who shall return to the re
gular and ordinary discharge of their duty,
according to the rules and praftice of the
navy ; we have thought fit, by the advice
of our privy council, to issue this our royal
proclamation, and do hereby promise our
most gracious pardon to all seamen and ma
rines serving on board the laid squadron,
who shall, upon notification hereof on board
their refpeftive ships, return to the regular
and ordinary discharge of their duty : And
we do hereby declare, that all such seamen
and marines, so returning to their duty, shall
be discharged and released from
cutions, imprisonments, and penalties, in
curred by reason of any aft of mutiny or
disobedience of orders, or any breach or
i negleft of duty, previously committed by
them, or any of them.
Given at our court at Windsor, the twen
ty-second day of April, one thousand
seven hundred and .ninety-seven, and
in the thirty-seventh year of our reign.
GOD SAVE THE KING.
April 26.'
In the Times of yesterday we stated, that
the Archduke Charles had proposed a truce
• to the French General Buonaparte, in an
swer to some overtures he had mad made to
, his Royal Highness for peace. This was
■ at firft refufed ; but we now learn that a
1 dispatch from General Graham was received
, by Lord-Grenvjlle on Monday last, inform
■ ing hisLordfhip,thatatruce had been agreed
on between the Archduke Charles and Ge
neral Buonaparte for SIX DAYS. This
truce was signed at the moment when the
news of the defeat ofthe French in the Ty
, rol arrived at his Royal Hightiefs's Head
Quarters.
IRELAND.
BELFAST, April 17.
Last night col. Barber arretted two of
the clerks belonging to the Northern Star
Office, and placed guards on all the taverns
: in town, which he kept there until two
• o'clock this morning with orders not to let
■ any persons out. He brought a man dif
' guifed as an officer, and with a black hand
j kerchief over his face, who poined out a
number of individuals, who immediately
were arrested. The whole of those who have
; been fcT arrested within a few days past, a
- mounts to near forty !
r _____
PORTSMOUTH, April 24.
Arrived here this day the Flora aud Pearl
frigates with a privateer captured by the
3 former ; she is named L'lncroyable, is up
wards of 400 tons burthen, mounts 24, guns
on her main deck, and had on board 220
r men. The prisoners fay, that she is the
- fwifteft failing yeffel that ever failed from
France, and would never have been taken, and
but from having been becalmed, aud the d:d
Flora bringing up the breeze tvith her.— twe
Tiia chacc lasted three days ; the Pearl hav- El
ing chafed her from the 11 th in the morn- fan
ing ; and it was not till the 13th at midnight the
that she furfendered. Four days previous mi;
to L'lncroyable being chafed by the Pearl, del
she fell in with in the night, another French tlic
privateer, called Le Cheri, when an aftion 1 i
commenced, which lasted between two and nic
three hours, before they discovered their 0:1
mistake. The dillance of their engaging dei
must probably, have been very great, as no to
man was hurt on either fide. b'J l
Last night all was quiet in the fleet at fail
Spithead, except in one or two ships ; and tlx
that only 1 occasioned by a few refraftory raf- lut
cals, whom the good sense of the reft of the hi
ship's company soon brought to order. a™
Immediately after the firing the fun set wh
gun, the ship's company of his' Majesty's
Ihip Royal William, went aft, sent a message
by a midshipman, that the ship's company
requested to fee all the Lieutenants on deck , cd
(theirintentionbeing unknown,) when much j of
to their surprize, the officers were told by . ha
the ship's company in general, that the con- I
dust of capt. Prickmore and officers had j mi
been such during the whole of this affair, fuf
that they could not help coming aft to re- 011
turn their most humble thanks ; which was
done by three times three. an
This afternoon dropped down to St. He- P £
len's, his Majesty's ship Royal Sovereign, ha
Vice Admiral Sir Alan Gardner, with the
firft division ofthe fleet under his command, j Ol
viz. the Duke, Impeteux, Mars and Ro- no
bufte. et
The remainder of the fleet will follow to g c
morrow, and will, I trust, should the French an
venture out, convince their king and coun- th
try, by givinga good account of them, that
they are staunch to both.
ye
The following Answer was returned by at
the Lord Mayor yesterday morning to the t"
requisition to call a common hall, for the ur
purpose of taking the Sheriff's report into T
consideration. We think the answer does an
credit to his Lordship, and that it is precise- m '
ly such as he ought to have given : 111
Mansion Haufe f 2stb April, 1797- ne
" Gentlemen,
" Having fully considered the requisition th
signed by a number of the Liverymen of th
London, and delivered to me by you on the gr
22d inft. wherein they request of me to con- ®
vene a common 1«&11 within eight days, for pi
the purpose of taking into consideration ' ft<
the report of the Sheriffs, communicated j an
to the Livery in Common Hall assembled on be
Wednesday the 12th inft. and to investigate pa
the real causes of the awful and alarming fi<
state of public affairs, and to adopt such mea- di
fures as may be expedient in the present con- bt
jnnfture." I request of you, gentleman, to bi
inform them, that I will most readily con- cl
vene a common hall any day in the coming j in
week which may be most convenient to them m
(after the termination ofthe sessions at the fe
Old Bailey) for the purpose of taking into di
consideration " the report of the Sheriff's w
communicated tothe Livery in common hall o
assembled on Wednesday the 12th inft,
but that I deem it incompatible with my du- tl
ty to assemble the Livery, for the purpose , a
of investigating the real causes of the awful 1
and alarming state of public affairs, a pro- ; w
. position too extenfivc and unqualified to 'ad- jai
, mit of discussion in an assembly confefiedly 'ei
not deliberative. '
■ I am, Gentlemen, '■
Your humble Servant, c
" Brook Watson, Mayor. f'.
"To Messrs. Thomas Reeve, John Elfee, f<
, and Samuel Miller." a
1 n
PORTSMOUTH, April 19. f
1 Extraß of a private letter.
i '• Yesterday at 11 o'clock, lord Spencer f
1 and two other lords of the Admiralty arri- I
. ved, in order to fettle the grievances which < t
. the seamen of the fleet make the pretence S c
r of their late disobedient and disorderly con- ,ii
r dust. As soon as their arrival was made ' c
f known, lord Bridport, fir Alan Gardner, 'li
and Admiral Colpoys, waited on their lord- j f
. ships, who was attended by fir Peter Par- : n
1 ker, the Commander in Chief at this port. £
1 " Yesterday failed his Majesty's ship i
. Romney, with a convoy, to Newfoundland, v
after being liberated from an embargo laid r
upon her by the sailors of the fleet, who f
t were resolved no ship should fail until they
e were assured their demand should be compli
- ed with. The duty of the fleet is not fuf
-3 pended, though the seamen are perfeftly r
s matters, and do just what they please. Ev- j
a cry ihip has a yard-rope ready at '.he fore- t
d yard-arm, to hang any person who breaks
- through their own regulations ; still no in
d fults are offered to any of the officers, whose
necessary orders are carried on as before this r
s confufion commenced. I fear it will be dif- [
e ficult to comply with all the demands of the 1
•- sailors, jvho have been evidently set on by i
d villains who are known traitors tq^their king t
and country. The La Nymphe is just arri- 1
ved, and the Monarch gone out of hafbour,
to Spithead.
The Royal William's crew not cheering 1
morning and evening, were sent to by the 1
if people of the Royal Sovereign to fay that
ir if they did not, they would fire into them." i
is
o ExtraS of a letter from Portsmouth, dated
:t April 19.
f- " The discontents which have for several i
[- days existed, and still exist, on board the 1
a Grand Fleet at Spithead, have assumed a ve- <
[y ry formidable and systematic charafter.—
e The business of the seamen is condufted by
i- a Committee, chosen from amongst them
selves, of four men from each ship, who
hold their discussions in the Admiral's cabin
of the Royal George. They have publifh
rl ed their petition, which is now in the press,
le and is to be distributed gratis amonft the
)- fleet to-morrcrw morning. It consists of fer
is veral pages. The purport -is said to be, —-
O firft—increafe of pay to I foilling per day ;
le full <weight of provi/ions of 16 ounces to the
m pound—a greater proportiou of prize mcney—
and an afyhtM or puifun for allpsifim ry-.-jfr
d:d in thefervicc. It is underfloeid that the
two firft demands hav£ been acceded to by
■Earl Spencer, fo.fnras promising to lay the
fame before his Majefly ; but this prcraifc
they are not fatisfied with, and are deter
miiv:d to know the result of his Majesty's
deliberation on their petition. At present
the whole fleet is entirely at their command.
The take the boats at pleasure, and commu
nicate ship with (hip. Yesterday they sent
0:1 board the Romney, of 50 guns, and or
dered her to sea : The cl-ew were anxious
to flay, to know'the refuft of the petition ;
but the Deputation which was sent onboard
said, it was for the good of the country
they (hould go with the convoy, and abso
lutely ordered them to proceed to sea ; and
in confequeflce the ihip got under weigh,
and went down *0 St. Helen's immediately,
where (he only waits sos a fair wind.
GO SPORT, April 19.
The seamen in Hafler hospital lmve join
ed the sailors, and express their approbation
of their proceedings by a flag which-they
have flying, and by huzzas.
There is not so much as a wcrfhan per
mitted to leave the (hips. They will not
fuffer a line of battle Ihip to leave Spithead,
only frigates with convoys. There are very
few boats fuffered to go 011 ftiore, and scarce
an officer is to be seen in Portsmouth,
Portfea, or Gofport. A ship went out of
harbour this day, and, directly she got into
Spithead, gave three cheers, the signal for
joining the fleet. The (hop-merchants are
not even permitted to come on (hore, —they
let boats come along-side to bring them
goods. The whole of the marines on board
are disarmed, and they have got the keep of
the magazines.
LONDON, April 27.
An express was received from PortfmoutTi
yesterday morning, flaring that the harmony
at length restored to the fleet happily con
tinued, and the firft division of the fleet get
under weigh to fall down to St. Helen's—
This is a fatisfaftory proof of the genuine
and loyal character of British seamen. The
moment that their grievances were redrefled,
they returned to their duty with cheerful
nefs and alacrity. That it may be for ever
buried in oblivion is our earnest prayer, or
that it be only recolledted to prove that
there is not the horror in representations of
grievance, which a corrupt government is
inclined to impute to all petitions ofthe peo
ple. That harmony may be perfectly re- ,
stored, ft is surely indiscreet to enumerate
j and record all the instances of intemperate
behaviour that may have occured on board
particular (hips. In such a crisis, an expres
sion, however inoffenfive, may have given
disgust ; and a valuable, gallant officer, may
be injured in his reputation by the mere
breath of rumour. To retail all the mis
chievous reports of the Platform at Ports
. mouth, and colle£t all the stories which were
magnified on every repetition, would only
serve to sow the feeds of future jealousy and
discord in the fleet, and prevent the union to
which the natur.il generality of the hearts of
our seamen is inclined.
We deprecate also the lamentations of.
those who pretend to fee in this great event,
i a revolution in the fy item of British discipline.
This whining cant may make the change
| which they affe£t to deplore ; since it is an
• acknowledgment of weakness that would
■ engender and animate disobedience. But
let us view it without prejudices, and we
(hall view it without alarm. The grievan
ces must have been severely felt and long
fuffered that could give rife to a confederal y
, so geneif.l, so fyftematfc, so well combined,
and so temperately conducted. Its manage
ment is a proof that it was not the effeft" of
sudden passion—nor was the feeling local.—
In what new light then,- does this event
r serve to make us consider the Bririfh feamer. ?
- ' Are we to learn from this, that they are p<--
I tient and forbearing, but when roused, firrr,
; \ constant and unconquerable. Thank God,
- it was always their character, and it will
e continue to be their character. This event
, has created no change ; except, as we have
- said before, that it will serve as an ufeful ad
- monition to government no f to (light the
grievances of the seamen when presented in
5 in the prudent and humble guise of a petition
, without signatures. It is a painful talk for
i pride to grant to remonstrance what was re
> fufe'd to prayer. Morn. Chro.
f
VIENNA, April 1.
The king of Sardinia has sent two Com
f miffaries to Milan, to make the necessary
- preparations for the march of the Sardinian
- troops which arc to join the French army,
s
PARIS, 2 Floreal, April 21.
e A crowd of whofe appearance,
s manner, and discourse, are of the most fuf
:- picious kind, iiEve within these few days
e past arrived at Paris. They are perhaps
J intended to effeft some coup de main before
g the introduction of the second third into the
i- legislature.
r, 4 Floreal, April 23.
Mr. Madifod, of Virginia, arrived here
g the 21 ft, in the quality of envov extraordj
e nary from the United States e'f America,
it Pie is inverted with powers' to fettle the dif
" ferences that exist between Congress and the
Directory. \_Curiotis Error.]
d 5 Floreal, April 24.
The secret meetings of terrorifls are more
al frequent and more afti've than they have
ie hitherto been since the attack on the camp
of Crenelle. Plots are said to be on foot
- for fctting die to different quarters of Paris,
y and to affaflinatfc all the Chouans of the le*
1- giflative body aud of the Diredtcry, ,and in
10 general u!l wealthy citizens.
II 6 Floreal, April 25.
1 -' The city of Nantes is in a state of diflurb
s, ance. The auarchifts have attempted to
ie assassinate citizen Norman, formerly chief of
er the legion of Nantes, and lately elected mem*
- ber cf the legislature. At Aries, the Bri
; gands having polled then.selves on the road
be to Aix, for the purpose of butchering the
- deftors, were repulsed by a flrong escort.Tta Pope ha* grafted k-a*f ♦« tire >v" *. c <v
Sr.d Nuns in the Lower Counties to accept icr- L
rit-.ial bonds, ty which the estates, formerly .
bel>>ngin» to their convents and wonallents, art- o j
mortgaged fir the ptnfions assigned them for ;
' ' Oon Jofcph Mafliredo, the new appointed >«'
commander in chief of the Sparifh fleet, has co
received order* to fit Out, with the utmost expe- I
diriin, as frary armed vefl'els as he can cojlci®, JyJ
and to man them, in want of seamen, with land Ic
troops. .. L
Harrerc Ins b?en cliofen deputy to the legit- ,
ljtive body bv the elciftoral affemblyof i'arbi-s.
The Apollo cf BeWiderc, a:;d ia wJggons l "
filltU wfih a part of ihif prcciobs artUSw of the ct
fine arts agreed to be-, given up by the tieaty
with the Pope, arc now i n thHr way to Pans.
8 Flo real, April 27. di
In Corftca the Jacobin Salicetti has been
tlefird a deputy to the leg-ifl.itive .body.— rc
At Riota, -a very-serious affray has taken of
place between the jacobins, who arc dif- gr
pleased with the eledtions, and several per- th
ions were wounded.
Lagras, the foreman of the jury on the t; j
afiaffiuation of Sieyes, proceeded yesterday, P l ,
to the Tcmpleprifon to interrogate Brottier, t .
Lavijleurnois and Prefte.
9 Floreal, April 28.
The two citizens Theulieres, brothers and
editors of the Journal General de France,
are coniined in the prison of La Force, for |5
having called the Directors, Kings with iron t j
fcrptres. C(
ARRET OF 21 GERMINAL, APRIL 20. p
The Executive Directory direfls, that e
thepaffports granted by the Minifterß and
Diplomatic Envoys of the United States of
America, or paflports certified by them, —
shall not be admitted nor acknowledged by t ]
any authority. tl
The Minister of Police 'is charged with n
the execution cf this Arret, which shall be e
printed. a
(Signed) Rswbell, President.
Lagarde', Sec. Gen.
LONDON, April 25 to May 4.
The following counties, cities, and towns, t
have already petitioned for peace, and the c
dismission of administration : t
Surry, Dublin, 0
Kent, Glasgow, e
Hampfilire, , Paisley, I
Cambridgeshire, Nottingham,
Gloucefterdiire, Leicester, li
Bedfqrdfhire, Boston, t
Forfarfhire, Steyning, j
London, SaUfbury, c
Weitminfter, Canterbury, and l
Southwark, Rochester. t
Edinburgh,
Middlesex, York (hire and Northumber- c
land are to meet in a few days. c
On some trifling advantages gained recent- c
ly by the imperial troops over the French t
in Italy, it is said the inhabitants of Verona, [
in Venice, assembled, and destroyed 500 \
French in the hospitals in that city. In r
consequence it is added, Angereau ordered i
that city to .be set fire to, and destroyed ; E
And demanded of the Doge other fatisfac
tion, which was, of necessity, granted.
The Dutch fleet have ggain left the Tex
el. Admiral Duncan fails immediately in '
pursuit of them.
Counter Revolution in the Venetian Territory. •
MILAN, April 4.
The Republican Revolution in some of '
the Venetian towns, in which, the French '
have as yet taken no direst part, does not ,
meet with such universal approbation, but
many bloody frays have been the confe- 1
quence. About 4000 inhabitants of the 1
mountains of the province of Bergamo, and
particularly of Im gna and St. Martino, —
who do not wish any change in their Gov
ernment,have opposed the inhabitants of the
town, and on the 30th of March advanced
against Bergamo. The people of the towli
drew out their artillery ; and many of the
Peasants were killed, wounded, or taken pri
soners. The dead were exposed the whole |
day in Bergamo, before the tree of liberty.
Other parts of the provinces have declared
for the towns and their revolution.
We learned the day before yesterday,
that a corps.of national guards, who arrived
with some artillery at Salo, on the Lake of
Garda, met app rently with a fraternal re
ception, butwere afterwards surrounded, and
partly killed or taken prisoners. Many of
the inhabitants of Milan, Bergamo, and
Brescia, are now inarching against Salo, to
take vengeance of that city.
r _____
VENICE, April 8.
The inhabitants of our continental pof
fefiions, who were forced to a revolution in
the manner of the French, are full of re
sentment. The city of Crema hasrefuftd
to accede to the revolution of the citiis of
Bergamy and Brescia, and would not plant
the tree of liberty. Eight hundred Revo
iutionifts from adjacent places entered the
town, and forced them to accede to the re
volution. This proceeding made all the
Peasants of the diftrifts of Cremafco, Sa
lo, &c. rife in arms, and march against the
troops which were ordered against them,
under the commaifd of three revolutionary
Generis, namely, Counts Leech i, Ferdi
dand Gambara,, with two pieces of cannon
from Brescia. The Peasants, assisted by a
few hundred Venetian regulars, killed or
took the three Revolutionary Generals, and
killed 300 men of the national guards of j
Brescia, and took as many more prisoners.
Since this event, most of the inhabitants of
the Venetian provinces are determined to
defend the old Constitution and their homes
from the rage of the Revolutionists, and the
adherents of the French.
' PRECIPITATE EXPULSION OF
THE FRENCH FROM TYROL.
INSPRUCK, Apiil to
o:;the 7 th the enemy began their retr<at from
Btunecken, in three columns, and butut the
to cover their retreat General Ker
peg in purfuintt them with hisaiir.y, aud the
whole body of the peasantry.
April 12.
On the 10 General Kerpen wrote from Bm*
-ecke'i thut the er.fmy, on the Bth werr at on
- Lientz, and on the oth had evaluated the oui
vi hole valley of Puftef. The advanced guard for
of Geu Ketpen was, on the 9th, at Silaji, dc
and-ordered to extend iifelf »o .Lientz. The Gi
j levy of the peafanttNin a m-.fs, has greatly on
s contributed to diive out "he enemy. A 1
- This morning ear ly i courier arrived from the
1 Niiimark, with official aduice3, dated, the Ai
' 10th by which we learn, that the brave Gfn ma
Laudohn, after a smart adlibn hnd taken a r
Lavis, and putfued the flying enetr-y half way riv
3 to Trent. Thefeadviets were publilhed by Fe
e count Lehrbarh. % fee
y T"i't<DL, April rj. vei
We hope irow that the enemv will fo«n be j ie
driven entirely- out c.f the Tyrol, as thcry already
n are uhat is culled Oerinan Tyrol.—The' , l;
Auftriau advanced polls already extend to Rove
reao. The Frchsh, in their halty retreat out ca
" of Tyrol, through Cifimhia, &c. have loft a an
~ greit r.umher of men, who fell a farrifice to efl
•- the enraged peifantry. At Botaren,great quart- e n
tit es of ammunition, baggage and arms, were
e taken,and divided anvongrhe peasants. Infome n
places the retreat of the er.emv was tut.off. '
' Gen. Laudohn, on the 4th was in great danger a
' from the blowing up of a powder waggon. 01
—.. : A
SALZBURG, April 10. 4
d Yesterday a tourier arrived here with advice
; 5 that an armiflice for 6 days had been concluded
>r to negotiate t peace. An Austrian ofticer at Hie
fame time brought orders to the 10,000 men
that arc in this country not to move till they re- ™
ceive further direilions. -h'
The archduke Charles and general Buona- 1
part* cofiefpond continually ; the report, how- tl
it ever that the preliminaries of peace were alrea- v;
1( J dy signed, was premature. The Auftrians have
fortified the fortreis of Western, ten leagues
from this place.
Should peace not be fiynedonthe i.tth, when
'y the armiflice expires, the French w ill continue Z'
their march in three colum § : the centre com- g
:h mandtd by Bu»naparte,will march against Low- >tr
jeer Austria j the other eolumis against Croatia, a 1
and the third against Lintz
From the Court Gazette. | r
VIENNA, April 10.
OPERATIONS IN THE TYROL. ; p
General Baron Laudohn on the 4th, re- r i
s, took Botzen, and, followed up his fuccefles, tl
le came on the rear of the enemy by the Gun- tl
ter Road—The enemy abandoned the post . h
of Claufen, evacuated Brixen, and retreat- T|
ed by the valley of Prifter, taking post by li
Brunecken. 1;
During this success, Baron Kerpen with p
his corps joined Laudohn, took up his quar- ;
ters io Brixen, and extended his advanced t
posts to Muhlbaed. The enemy left cpnfi- v
derable quantities of provisions in Brixen, \
but threw a great deal of ammunition into
the water.
According to jiccounts from Agram, a
:r- cordon has been drawn from the right bank
of the Drave to the left bank of the Saw, to ■
it- cover the Frontiers towards Carinthia, and
ch to threaten the flank and rear of the enemy
ia, (hould they advance. This ppfition is co
-30 vered with redoubts, and the chain ] i
In maintain a communication with that extend- j }
ed ing from the Urkokerbeg by Mottling, and J
- . along the Carolina. 1
ic- <
TURIN, April ij'.
, x _ A courier extraordinary from general Buona
• parte arrived lalt right in this city. His dis
patches contain 1 very urgent invitation for gen
eral Clarke to repair instantly to head quarters,
ry. about 10 leagues from Vienna, if he wilhed to
be present at the ceremony of signing the terms
0 f of peace. An armiflice had been concluded
, and which was to expire on the 13d Germinal,
c " —tJnfertunately the overflowing of a river had 1
deljyed the progress of the courier 30 hours ;
>ut f 0 that it is fuppal'ed that tha peace will he con
fe- eluded before M. Clarke can reach the place of 1
;he destination, which cannot happen in less than
nd five days.
HOUSE OF COMMONS—May 3.
The Princess Royal's Marriage.
Mr. Pitt delivered the following meflige from
jjjg Majelly :
Georpe R
:lie His Majesty having agreed to the marriage of
)ri- : his eldelt daughter, the Princess Royal, with
c ] e i the Hereditary Prince of Wirtemberg, has tho't
fit to communicate intelligince of it to the house
y* of commoiis. His Majelty is iully perliiaded,
re " that the marriage of her Koyal Highntfs with a
Proteltant Prince so confide! able in rank and
ay, station, who is connected with the Royal Fami
red ly by common descent from the Princess Sophia
0 f of Hanover, cannot but be acceptable to all his
fubjefts ; —and the many proofs of affect ion
\ and attachment to his person and family which
lnC l he has received from this house, aft'ord him no
°* room to doubt, that they will enable him to
ind give such a portion to his eldest daughter as may
to be suited to the dignity of the crown
The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, that
the fubjedl was of such a nature as he was sure
made it uuueceffary fur him to fay a word on
r the complexion of the address urhic v . the house
3 °'" should make in return. —He therefore should
I ' n move.ihat an humble address (hould be prelent
re- ed to his Majesty, in consequence of the above
iftd meflage ; which was agreed to, rum con.
ant PORTSMOUTH, April n-
The Shipwright* in the dock yard have been
■ V °~ in a diftwrbrd itate for two days palt, owing to
fome supposed delinquency in one of the quar
re" ter men, on whose discharge, however, peace is
the restored. Would to Heaven the King would
Sa- hearken to the prayers of nine tenths of his peo
the pie, and by dil'charging his present quartermen,
give a chance once moreto this ruined, degrad
' ed country, to enjoy the bleflings of peace.
lal 7 May 2.
ral " A confirmation of the loss of his Majesty s
non ship Albion, of 60 guns, captain Hamilton, in
>y a the Swin as stated in our paper of Tuesday, is
lor received at the admiralty. Every pbfliblc exer
and '' on was made to get her off, but in vain ; —on
us Saturday Ihe went to pieces. Tlie crew were
° all saved, and yesterday they were turned over
lers * to the Lancaster, of 64 guns, now fitting out at
s Deptford.
Ito Yesterday :lie Medusa of 50 guns joined Lord
>mes Brjdport's fleet at St. Helen's,
[the LISBON, --larch 23.
The Declaration of War against us on the
part of Spain {till remains suspended; our
OF Court does all it can to keep it so; so far has
it Carried ita Complaisance, that though our
Army and Navy are in want of gun-powder,
from and Admiral Jervis offered us the powdeT
t the taken pn board Prizes, it was
Ker- (in the.hope of preventing hostilities) refu
-3 the fed. The rival Armies remain encamped
opposite each other; our lines are extended
from, the Tagus to the Guadiana, having
Bru* the Guadiana and the fortefs of Elvas on
on our right, ■ MontaJvao cn the Tagus on ■!
our left, and our venture supported by the
fortifications of Portal! agre and catMlo
dc Vide; the Spanish lines extend from the
Guadiana ,to the Tagus, having Badajpz
oil their left, Alcantara on their right, and or
Albuquerque in their centre, at Alcantara q]
there is a bridge aeaofs the Tagus. Our bo
Army Confifto of ab0ut,33,000 men, com- gj,
maftded by the Duke d'ALAPOENs, who is tel
a near relation of the Queen's. On the ar- vo
rival of the remaining troops from Porto- ft,
Ferrajo, the English Army will •be increa
sed to the number of 10,000; this; howe
ver the French Emigrants. We
: hear that the Spaniards mean to attack us W(
. hiti the fame manner they did last war. jj
[ When one Army crofted the Tagus at Al- tt ,
, cantara, and down its banks to' Ville Velha, te
l another besieged and took one of onr strong- ~
> i eft border fortreftes, Almeida, and another £
■ ; entered at the North-east part of our terri- lit
; tory. The Officer who commanded the ,C<
Spanish Army at the liege of Almeida, is
r a Frenchmen, and has nnce entered into
our, service, and commands the Portuguese h(
Artillery- i'e
it
f * PARIS, April 27.
The Adjutant-general Le Clerc, informs "
" us, that at the moment when he left the ar- c .
my of Italy, Buonaparte and Prince Charles v
had by a contra<St concluded with all the n
- Diplomatic forms, declared-the neutrality of 11
- the place of their meeting—it was in a pri- n
vate garden. n
e The firft difficulty that occurred was, the u
s precedency claimed to the Emperor ; which tl
n the French gen. without difficulty recogni- °
c zed, declaring the French Republic was too h
1- great to attach any importance to vain cere- j
Tnony. They then entered in great state, 1\
' at opposite points of the garden ; the over- v
tures were opened and a second armiflice '
I signed. },
i Buoniparte reading at the head of the T
Preliminaries of Peace, that the Emperor 0
recognizofl the French Republic, required
5, the eraffinent of-this article, persuaded that 1
i ! the Republic had no need of the consent of j.
ft . his Imperial Majesty to give it existence. 1
t- The French Republic, laid Buonaparte, is I
y like the fun above the horizon. Blinded 1
indeed are they, whom its rays have not yet
h pierced. j
r-; The article was expunged. Such was 1
d the state of the negociation when Le Clerc ;
r- was dispatched. 1
3 , .. !
Xf)C ;
a ■ J
k PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, June 14. 1
>y _ 7
o- married, on the Evening of the Bth in
ps : ftant, at the feat of Colonel Ramsay, Car
d- | penter's Point, Caecil County, by the Rev.
id Mr. Ireland, Mr. Septlmimus Clay
poole, of the City of Philadelphia, to the
amiable Miss Elizabeth Polk.
1a- CONG RESS.
if-
r T HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES,
to
nS TUESDAY, JUNE 13.
Mr. Otis reported a bill to suspend the-a !di
a j tional duties la.'d on India and China goods, last
, . session, from the ift of July to the ift of Oclo
,nl berj twice read, committed, and made the or.
0 f der of the day for to-morrow.
al) In committee of the whole on the bill for fur
ther fortifying the ports and harbors of the U
nited States.
Mr. Gallatin moved that the blank for the
fom to be appropriated be filled up with 50,000
m dollars.
Mr. W. Smith moved that it be 100,000-
Mr. Ailin moved that the amendment a
p greed to yesterday be re corificlered, so ils to ad
■ft mit an addition by which the por N ts of New
'0 > t York and Charleston fhou'.d not lie excluded
°r from the benefits of the meditated repairs and
defences, at lead until after a requiUtion had.
[ ' been made to the refpe&ive States for a ceflion
? of the jurifditftion of the fortified places, and a
refuf.il of compliance on llieir parts.
I ' The motion was productive of a debate of
,' a considerable length, in which the propriety of
." s reconlidrration was ltrcnuoully advosated, not
•°" only by the members from New-York, but also
IC " by many other members, who had yesterday
"° voted in favor of the amendment.
0 On a division, the motion was loft ; ayes 42,
noes 53.
, On the motion of genera! Smith, the question
was put on filling up the blanks with 100,000
dollars, and negatived; 38 oidy rising in the
j- affirmative.
1 | B®,oco dollars was then proposed by Mr. W.
II ' Smith, for which there appeared the fame
;nt- , * *
unmber.
The question was then put on 75,000, which
was carried.
On motion of Mr. W.Smith, (Ch ) after
long debate, 40,000 dollars for South Carolina
and Georgia were added so the bill.
: 0 The privateering bill was received from the
l 4* senate, with their concurrence in the amend-
e .j ments which'had been made in the house.
U C Committee on enrolled bill reported a bill for
>eo prohibiting, for a limited time, thetxportation
! C "' of arms, ammunition, &c. as corre£My enroll-
I e d. Adjourned.
t y 's GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
, in
is Nruu-Yorh, June n.
KCT- ARRIVED. DAYS.
-° n Ship Matilda, Tombs, Charleston
' cre Union, Johiifon, ' Amsterdam 64
)ver Liberty, —■ —, Norfolk, in diftrels 7
II at ..Brig Little George. Ilawley, Havanna 11
ord Sloop Willis, Philadelphia 4
Commerce, Swan, Charleston 7
Ship Butler of Falmouth, Butler Jones,
the master, from Charleston, arrived at Amfter
our dam, ift of April, all well,
has The ftiip Harriet, Neil, of New-York,
our from the Bay of Honduras, arrived at Am
der, fterdam two days before captai;i John&n
cdeT failed. • • •
wa3 Thf tondemnatUin of the (hip Golden Age
. r of Philadelphia, and fehr. Success of N'c'rfolt,
f , had been received from the Cape before rapt.
'P™ Hawley failed. There were 11 American,vtf
)dcd |" e t s there, In the Gulph fell in with tliice En
ving glith frigates under commodore Coelirar, intci.-
son ding tociuife off the Havaiuuh.
By this day's Mail. Th
CHARLESTON, June 2.
An Englilh frigate, cither the Phaseton
or Phxnix, h'as capturcd the Spanish frigate and
Glory, and if out of 17 of her convoy,
bound frotn Vera Cruz to the Jfayannah. " .
She captured the frigate in* 15 minutes, as- iur
ter a few bro'adfides, and afterwards tlie con
voy ; eight of'which (he manned, and de
ftßiyed seven.
BOSTON, Juste 9. wi
The whole number of votes lot federal et )
reprefentHtives in the firft eastern diftrift, w.
were 3058, of which general Dearborn had
1449, honorable Isaac Parker 1606, feat
uring 3. By which the eleftion of the lat
ter gentleman is full ascertained. "I
HAVlWCTliccn ljteiy puiilitheil -ai j CuwitJ •'
by Wilson Hunt, 1 request the Public to
liilen to a pain (lory, and then to affix the name of _
Coward to whom it (hall belong.
On the Bth June, walking from the coffee-hoiifc
to dinner with feme company, I mchtiopM a cur
rent report and whicfi II ad just heard at the coffee p;
house, That Wilsoij Hwkt, in a late challenge he |j t
lent to Mr.iORR, had contrived afterwards to have
• it known, for when the conftahles arrived to bind
him over, he had his sureties ready. I went home J
and never mentioned or thought of the report a
gain. Between 11 and 12 o'clock at night I was h
called on by major De Butt* with achallengc from ,
Wilson Hunt, to meet him at 5 o'clock the n xt
morning. I went instantly out to lee him, and
found him between my door and the corner, and
was going to speak, but hefaid he would not hear
ine, I must comply with his terms, and if I had a
ny thing to fay, I must speak to maj<,r Dje Butts ;
upon which I complained to major De Putts or
this ungentlemanlike treatment, told him 1 knew
of no injury I had done Mr. Hunt, that what I
had fa id was a common report, and 1 cbuld fud
him an author. I requefied him to call on Mr. f
Hunt and persuade him to let me speak tah.m. {J
Major De Butt 9 returned and said Mr. Hunt tl
was not to be pacified,.and was resolved to publifli n
his letter if I did not meet him by j o'clock. I v
declared I would not meet him at that d
hour, for I was neither provided with a friend or a
weapons and I thought when Mr. Hunt cool'd c
on the bulinefs, he would allow me to explain to f<
him; for though it was .a commcn report, yet I j
had an author. I asked major De Butts if he had e
not he«rd*the report ; he said yes. 1 alked him if J v
he thought J ought to meet Mr. Hunt ; he said no. | n
1 told him as. he behaved so candidly with r.ie, that ' ft
I would leave the matter to him, and that if Mr ' t!
Hunt still perfiftedin making me the author, and j
would receive no explanation, 1 mod afluredly J ,
would meet him. He said he fhoyld not fee Mr. j
H. that night, but he knew Mr. Hun.t- was deter- '
mined to. publiih the letter. We parted it was j *
about 1-2 o'clock at night. The next morning 1 (
heard the letter was pub lifted, j immediately car
ried my answer to major De Butts who,perufed
it and made some little correction, and I then sent
it to the press. All this time I had not seen his
publication, presuming it was no more than the
letter I had received, but I afterwards discovered
he Jiad introduced the letter to the public with a j
preface branding me with the name of coward. (
A new face of things now appearing it became ne
cessary that I ftiould wipe away this aspersion that
might fall on me and triy children if fuffered to"
pass over in lilence.
I resolved to call this intemperate young man to
account. I then requested my friend gen. M'Pher
fon to wait on him and inform him 4ie must retra&
-that word and that I was willing to receive an apo
*' logy,:£9l* I did not wife td 'hlarry him into a duel.
General me he had waited
. on Mr. Hunt, who laid he-would endeavor to find
his friend and would then give him his answer.
After this the next day I was waited on by Mr.
Higbee who wiftied to be a mediator on "this oc
caflon and tliought he would be able to persuade
Mr. Hunt to do the thing that was proper. The
time was gqfipened and retracled by Mr. Hunt
till about 9 O'clock the evening of {he 10th instant,
- when General M'Pherfon waited 011 rae and told
i me Mr. Huht would make n« ate logy, arnd that
on Sunday morning at 6 a'Clock would meet at
" Cooper's.upper ferry in llace of Jersey. This
ipbt was mutually agreed on to relieve Mr. Hunt
who was already under the fivil authority cf thi
- state. I then parted with suy friend Gen. M*Phcr
son, saw no one else, and some time after went to'
e bed. About Ji o'clock that night 1 was waited 011
D as Mr.Hu.nt terms it, by the civil authority, whom
I thanked for their tender concern of me, and dis
missed them. At 6 o'clock the next morning I
waS on the ground appointed in the state of Jer*
ley. During our passage across the river and whillt
on the ground 110 conversation relative to this bufi
. ness passed between the General and myfelf. He
requested me to wait on the ground till he went to
the house to look for Mr. Hunt. He returned and
brought Mr. Higbee, who before he left Philadel
-11 phia laid he had informed Gerieral M'Pherfon that*
a the civil auuhority had interfered, who replied that
the ground was not changed as to Mr..Hunt's situ
s atiou ; Mr. Higbee hen went off after compai ing
1 their watches artd said, they would moll unqucf
t tionably- be on the ground. (General M'Pherfon
0 never related to me any of this conversation wkh
y Mr. Higbee-till after his return :) Mr. Higbac
then mentioned that he called on Mr. Hunt to at
tend him to the place of meeting, hut who replied,
that the civil authority had interfered, and he could
n not go confident with "his honor. Mr. HLgbee then
o went down to the wharf to prevent our crofting,
e but feeing us on the river he returned to Mr. Hunt,
md told him wfi had crossed arid conjured him to
go, but Mr. Hunt continned firm, and relied on >
e the civil Authority.
Mr. Higbee requested me to return to my fami-
iy as quick as pofiible for the business was now
iofed.—l have Ihewn this piece before 1 commit
ted it to jvrefs to General M'phcrfou and Mr Hig
r !»ee who have approved of it, and are now refer
a red to as to what relates to the part they took in
this business. The public will then decide whether
ie the word coward (ball be applied to this intempe
rate young man, or tkat the opprobrium of so dif
graceful an epithet (hall reft 011 me and my chil
>r dren. W. W. BURROWS,
'n June ia, 1797-
1- N. B. Ihe exercise bf the civil authority was no J
more ihan anorder towaiton the chief justice at 10 :
o'clock thejiext mornirg, which hiterview was to
be four hours after our appomtment.
JAM ESTDAVENFO'K. i
s ry Efpeitfully inrorms the Citizens of the United
iX. States that he will make Tilachinrs for Spinn
ing Hemp, ?lax, Tow, Cotfun, Wool, manulac
'4" taring T wines, and weaving, by wat«r, on the
7 mod rufonabl- Terms.
Li A ManufaAory oh this principle, he flatters
4 himfelf will m»et wiih very general patronage, ls
the Machines will be made and delivered, ccmp'.ei V
. ly furniflied, far Spindle or Piece j -or will, any
'/» charge be madefor his Patent Right4,l)ut Liberty will
r " be g*ven tp the Pwdiafer to use th'cni the great
inconvealcnq: of employing Vf orjauirn in the < red
k, tioiiof them will theperfon wiftiing
n _ t0 extend them will be able_e*a4liy to calculate the
expense. He engages tofet.themto work, and
a fio' inftrviS or caulc to be inflrufled, a.->y p- rfon
or perfcns, in any part t)f the -vvb<r ißajr
ge purchafo these Michircs, in their- principles and
Ifcr method of ercfl-ion, iuch purchifer; paying travel
?t. ingexp^nces
tf- "for terms, application m&f be njade at No. 74,
fyJarfceiStrccvWaii'i'ltlphin.-
:i - *.* It i» rrquefted that alllctten may be postpaid.
Jure :o *4t.
Bush Hill.
The Public ire most refoe£KuUy ioformed, that the
amufemen'softhe Garden commence
On Friday June 16,
With a Concert ol Vocal and Inftrumcnul Mufirj
and lie rep ated on Saturday, the 17th.after the m»r
ner of the public <-ardeniai Paris, Vauxhall, Lon
don, &c.
The particulars of whi:h will beexpfelfcd in fu
ture bills.
j«i?t 13 __ •
Lailson's Circus,
To-morrow Evening, 15th June,
will be performed various Equestrian Exercife§,and
other Stage Entertainments, of which particulars
w»j| he jriven in the hills of the day.
! FASHION AND CHEAPNESS.
INTELLIGENCE TO THE LADIES.
TUSV receded from L»ndon» two' trunks of ele
gant P.KUNSWICK KID Ladies' Shoes, of the
most fafh : .onab!c patterns and Aupe now worn iq
that city, and will be fold »ff imn ediaulv in fmaU
quantities, at firfl e ft, for cafli, at Mrs. ENEFER's,
No. 105 Walnut ftieet, between Third and Fourth
(tree's
The above was purchased of Mr. Fox, in
Piccadilly, who manufe£lure» for most of the nobi
lity, and will be warranted good.
June >3 ' __
Nathaniel Lewis & Son,
Have for j'ale at their Jlore, No. 70, adjoining
George Latimer & Son, Pine-Jlrtet Wharf,
A Quantity St
Madeira Wines
In pipes and half pipes
Madeira Walnuts and Citron, lately imported
in the schooner Sincerity, Capt. Copia
25. Puncheons, second and third proof, Jfeft
lhdia Rum, and a few Pipes of Brandy
They have constantly on hand and for sale,
French Burr and Country Mill Stoner of various
fires, and a general aflortmcnt of Boultwv Cloths of
the heft quality, both American and Foreign ma
nufadure. The former having proved, from fe
vewil years experience of a number of millers in
different parts of the United States at least equal,
and in many iaftances superior to the European
Cloths, we hope the manufatfarer, Robert Daw
son, will meet with liberal encouragement in this
important and ufeful undertaking. He has obtain*,
ed a patent and cxclufive right of making and
vending Boulting Cloths on his improved plan for a
I number of years, and they are fold only by him
felf in Lancaster, ftatc of Pennsylvania, and by
the fubferjbers in Philadelphia.
IJune 14 d
John Miller, jun. & Co.
1 : Have received per the India, Athmead, from
Calcutta,
A well assorted small Invoice tf
Gurrahs
Baftas
Cofjacs
Calitoes '
JJengal Stripes
1 j Laid in renrarkably low, which they will Tell for
ca(h or short credit 011 very advantageous terms.
June 5. d2wfri4th
George Dobfon,
' No. 25 South Third-Street,
j T TAS imported per fiiips William Penn, Starr,
. 11 and Diana, from London,
l_ 5-4 Super London Chints, elegant pattern,,
GingDams, Muflinetts and Dimity's,
j Falho/iable Waiftcoating, newest patterns.
Ribbands well aflbrted, in small trunks.
4-4 5-4 and 6-4 India and Britiih Book-mus
lins.
e Fancy Cloaths and Cafir.miers.|
e 'J he whole to be disposed of cheap for Cafli
t orjapproved Notes of a (horr date«
June 14,'97. d,tf.
d .
t THE FOLLOWING VALUABLE
■' Trails of Land,
t TN the county of Glynn and state of Georgia,
' J. will be fold by public sale, at eight o'clock
011 the evening of Tuesday the 17th day ot June •
n next, at the Merchants Coffee-Houfe in this ci
n ty, unless previoully disposed of by private sale.
r_ ift. 7000 acres on St. Simons Sound at the
j confluence of Frederica and Turtle rivers, ad
joining the commons of the town ofßrunfujck,
[I originally granted to John llowell, and wiihia
i- 61 iles of the Atlantic ocean.
'.s 2d. 25,000 acres bn tbe head waters of a
0 branch of the great Sattilla, originally granted
d to Ferdinand O'Neal.
1- 3d. 50,000 acres cn the waters of the little
it» Satilla river, and of Buffaloe and A lexanders
»t Creeks ; the great Satilla road paflcs through
these lands, which were originally granted to
'? .Ferdinand O'Neal.
tth. 50,000 acres on the great Satilla river,
which are also interfered by a branch of the
little Satilla, and were originally granted t»
* c Thomas Spalding.
,j' Thomas Davis, surveyor, and ffom Major
, n Hopkins now residing in Philadelphia, that the
„ body of these lands are not thirty miles from
j®' the ocean,_ai:d principally within tide water ;
• 0 ' that the Alatamaha is navigable for boats and
3n . rafts two hundred miles abo%-e, and for large
veflcls within ten miles of them j that they are
ii. chiefly firtt rate pine lands, producing timber
iw equal in quality to any in the state of Georgia,
it- pofiefiing the fame advantages of navigation,
g- The certificates, together with
:r- the pjtents, drafts, andother papers refptiliilg
in the title, which is complete and unincumbered,
ier are in the pofieflion of the fubferibers and may
f" be seen by applying td Benjamin R. Morgan, at
>' No. 41 Mulberry Street. The terms ot pay
ment will be one thiwl ca(K, the remaining two
thirds in grod negotiable endors'd notes, pay*-
Wle in three and fix months after the sale ; a
n0 conveyance to be made to each purchafcr on the
payment, of that moiety of the notes received
from him which becomes firft due.
THOMAS FITZSIMONS,
1 JEREMIAH PARKER,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN.
Philadelphia, May 31, 1797. eodtf.
For Sale,
ers That vjell inotvn place, called F'/iNDtar.iFt's
zs Ft Kr Y,
/~vN Nelhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phili
ny vJ* ladelphia, on the New York post road,
' i;l containing 74 acres an<l 94 perches. Upon (he
cat p.emifes are a large two Itory stone hcu.eotcti
cc" pied as atvern, and a good one story stone kit
"S chen, a large frame flable with 4 good threfijiog
■ . floor, and fomc out buildings—also a well of
(cn P * ater, and an excellent ice House. On
! this place is a most elegant situation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a v,«w of the Nefham
.e[. iny toitsjunflion wiihxhe Delaware, and thence
acrofsto the Jtrfty fljore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms applv to the Sobfcriber,
lid. MORDECaI LFiWir.
«4- . atiwtf.Proposals
]For Carrying M A I L S ofthe
United States on the following
Pojl Roads, -will be received
at the General Pojl-Office, in
Philadelphia, until the 31Jl
day of July next, inclusive.
MAINE.
1. From Brewer's or Scoodie by Machias, Chan
dler's river and Columbia, to Ntrraguagusomc.
a week-
Leave Brewer's every Saturday at a PM, and
arrive at Narraguagus the next Tuesday ky 6 i
M—Returning, leave Narraguagus every Wedncf
day at 6 a w, and arrive at Brewer's the next Sa-
Ynrday by 10 a M.
2. From Narraguagus by Gnuldfborou<;h, Sulli
van, Trenton, Blue hill, Cuftine, fenobfeot, Butkf
ton, Frankfort, Prospect and Beli'aft to Duck-
Trap once a woek.
Leave Narraguagus every Wednefc'ay by 6 a
m. and arrive at Dock Trap the next Saturday by
ioam. Returning. Leave Duck Trap every Sa
turday by i P m and arrive at Narraguigus the
next Toefday by 6 ia
3. From Duck Trap by Camden, Thomsfton,
Warren, Waldoborough, Nfcwcaftie, WifcalTet,
BatJi, Brunfwiclt, Fretport and North Y arhiouth
to Portland onte a week.
Leave Dutk Trip every Saturday by 1 f m, and
arrive at Pcrtlan iothe next I'uefday by 6 r M. Re
turning. Leave Portland every Wednesday by 6
a M,aud arrive at Duck Trap the next Saturday by
10 A M.
4. From Portland by Eiddeford, Welles and
York,to Fortfrnanth.
Ajiril 15 to Odder 15. Leave Portland every
Monday, Wednesday and Friday by 6 am, and ar
rive at Portsmouth the fame days by 6 r m. Return
ing. Leave Portsmouth every Monday, Wednes
day and Friday at 9 r M, and arrive at Portland on
the next day by 6. p m.
O&obtr 15 to /fril 15. Leave Portland every
Monday and Thurftfay at 6 a m, and arrive at
Portsmouth on TuefJay and Friday by 10 A M. Me
turning. Leave Portsmouth every Tuesday and
Friday at 1 rW, and arrive at Portland every
Wednesday and Saturday at j r m.
5. From Portland by North-Yarmouth, Free
tort, Brunfwick, Bath, Wifcaffet, Dresden, Pittf
ton and Hallowell Hook to Hallowell eourt house,
once a week.
Leave Portland every Friday at 8 A. M,and ar
rive at Hallowell court-house the next Saturday by
7 PM. Returning* Leave Hallowell tourt-houfe
every Wednesday by j A M, and arrive at Port
land on Thursday by 6 PM.
6. From Wifcaffet by Dresden, Pittllon, Hallo
well Hook, Hallowell court-heufe, Winthrop,
Monmouth, Green, New-Gloucester and Gray to
Portland once a week.
Leave Portland every Monday by 6 A M, and
arrive at Wifcaffet on Wednesday noon. Return
ing. Leave Wifcaffet on Wednesday at 3 PM.and
arrive at Portland on Friday by 6 P M.
7. From Hallowell Ho»k by Vaffalborongh,
Fort Halifax, Winflovv, Fairfield and Canaan to
,N< rridgewok once a week.
Leave Hallowc.ll Hook every Wednesday at 11
A M, and arrive at Norridgewock on Thurlday
by 6 PM. Returning. Leave Norridgewock on
Monday at 2 P M, and arrive at Hallowell Hook
on Tuesday fcy 6 P M.
g- From Hallowell Hook to Farmington on San
dy river once in two weeks.
Leave Hallowell Hook every other Wednesday
by 8 A M, and arrive at FarmSngton by 6 P M.
Returning. Leave FarmingtOTi every other Thurs
day at 8 A M, and arrive at Hallowell Hook by 6
PM.
9. From Portland by Falmouth, Gotham, Bux
ton, Standilh, Limerick, Parioufield, Shapleigh
and Lebanon toJßerwick, once in two weeks.
Leave Portland every other Monday at 8 A M,
and arrive at Berwick on Wednesday by noon.
Leave Berwick every other Wednesday at 4 P
M, and arrive at Portland on Friday by 6 P M.
10. From Standifh by Flinftown, Fryburg aca
demy,Conway and Tamworth to Sandwich in New
Hanrpfhire once in two week?.
Leave Standifh every other Tuesday ly 8 A M,
and arrivoat Sandwich on Wednesday by 6 PM. Re
turning. Leave Sandwich every other Thursday at
8 AM, and arrive at Standifh on Friday by 6
P M.
11. From Wells by Waterboro', Sanford, Dough
ty's Falls, Berwick and Dover, to Portsmouth once
a week.
Leave Wells every Tu fday-by 6 A M, and ar
rived Portsmouth On Wednesday by 10 A M. Re
turning. Leave Portsmouth every Wednesday by
jPM, and arrive at Wells next Thursday by i
PM.
NEW-HAMPSHIRE.
It. From Portsmouth by Dover, Rochester and
Moultonfeorough to Plymouth, returningby New-
Hampton, Meredith, Gilm;nt«wn, Nottingham
aad Durham to PortfmouSh once in two weeks.
Leave Portsmouth every other Wednesday by 8
A M, and arrive at Plymouth the next Friday by 6
PM. Returning. Receive the mail at Plymouth
every other Saturday by 8 A M, and return to
Portsmouth the next Tuesday by 4 P M.
Note. " The pest is to go atid return on this route
alternately."
13* From Portsmouth by Exeter, Chester, Lon
donderry, Amherft, Peterborough and Marlbo
rough to Keene, once a week.
Leave Portsmouth every Thursday by 2 A M,
arrive at Exeter by one P M, at Chester by 6 P M,
aad at Keene on Saturday by 4 P M Returning.
Leave Keene every Monday by 8 A M, ajrive at
Chester on Tuesday by 4 P M, at Exeter on Wed
nesday by 9 A M, and at POl tfmouth by 4 PM.
14. From Concord by Plymouth to Haverhill,
once a week.
Leave Concord every Monday by 6 A M, arrive
at Plymouth on Tuesday by 3 P M, and at Haver
hill on Wednesday by 4 P M. Returning. Leave
Haverhill every Thursday by 8 A M, arrive at
Plymouth on Friday by 9 A M, and at Concord en
Saturday by 4 P M.
ij. From Exeter to Hampton Falls, three times
a week from April 15 to October 15; and twice a
week from O(Sober 15 to April 15.
Leave Hampton falls in one hour after the arriv
al after the arrival of the mail from Boston, and
deliver it at Exeter in two hours, remain at Exeter
two hours and return to Hampton Falls in fix
hours from the time of leaving it.
MASSACHUSETTS.
16. From Newburyport, Haverhill, Kingflon,
Exeter, New Market and Durham to Dover once
a week-
Leave Newburyport every Monday by 10 A M,
arrive at Dover on VVedi.cfday by noon. Return
ing. Leave Dover on Wednesday by 3 P M, and
arrive at Ncwourypoit on Friday by 3 P M.
17. From Salem to Gloucester once a wt ek.
Leave Clcucefter every Wednesday by 7 A M,
and errive at Salem by IT AM. Returning. Leave
3item every Wednesday by 1 P M, and arrive at
Gloucester by 6 P M.
Note. Hfcould this msjil be carried in a stage it Is
to be carried a* often as the Have runs, the hours
desired to b: ftatcd in the proposals.
jB. From Salem to Marblehead three times a
week. Leave £ahm every Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday immedintely after the arrival ot the
mail from Boflou, and deliver it at M arblehead in
one hour aad a half, leave Marbiehead in one
hour and a half and return to t-alim in two hours
19 From Ballon by Andcvcr, Kavcrh.ll and
t*«eßcr to Concord in New ttamj-lkire once a
week.
Leave Concord every Monday by 6 A M, arii ve
at Chester by 1 P M, and arrive at Boston on
Tuesday by 4 P M • Returripg. Leave Boston every
Friday by 9 A M,arrive at C'hefleron Saturday by
11 A M, and arrive at Concord on Saturday by 6
PM.
20. From Boston by Concord, Lancaftcr, Leo
minder and Alhburnham to Marlhorough, Keene
and Walpolein New Hampihira.
Leave Boston every Wedncflay and Saturday by
6 A M, and arrive at l.eomiuller by 7 P M.
Leave Leominllcr every Thursday by 6 A LI,
arrive atKeene 'trpij PM, £ at \A'alpole onFriday by
10 A M Returning. Leave Walpole «very Satur
day or Sunday by 5 A M, arrive at Keene by 9
AM, and at Leominll rin the evening. Leave
Lcominfter every Monday and Thursday by 6
a m and arrive at Boston by 6 P m.
11. From Boston by Quincey, Hingham, Hano
ver, Plymouth, Sandwich, Barnllablc, Yarmouth,
Dennis, Harwich and Chatham to Truro once a
week.
Leave Boston every Thursday by 3 P m, arrive
at Sandwich on Friday by 6 p m, and at Truro the
next Sunday by 6a m. Returning. Leave Truro
every Monday by 8 a m, arrive at Sandwich on
Tuesday by 7 p M, and at Boston on Thursday by
10 A M.
22. From Sandwich by Falmouth and Holmes
Hole to Edgartowa once a week
Leave Sandwich every Saturday by 1 p m, and
arrive at Edgarton on Monday by 11 a m. Return
ing. Leave Edgarton cn Monday by 2 p m, and
arrive at Sandwich on Tuesday by noon.
23. From Boston by Sharon, Mansfield, Norton
and Taunton to Newport once a 'vetk.
Leave Boston every Monday by 6 am, and ar
rive at Newport by i r m, on Tuesday. Returning
Leave Newport every Wednesday by 8 a m, and
arrive at Boston on 1 hurfday by 6 pm.
24. From Boston by Charleston, Medford, Wo
burn, Billerica, Chcltasford and Tyngboroegh to
Amherft onre a week.
Leave Boston every Thursday by 10 a m, and
anrive at Amherft the next Saturday noon Re
turning. Leave Amherft every Monday noon, and
arrive at Boston on Wednesday by 3 p m.
25. From Boston' by Randolph, Bridgewater,
Raynham and Taunton to New Bedford.
Front May Ito November 1. Leave Boston every
Monday, wednesday and Friday at 10 r m, arrive at
Taunton the next day by 11 a m, and at New Bed
ford by 8 p m. Returning. Leave New Bedford
every Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday by io p m,
arrive at Taunton the next day by II A m, and at
Boston by 8 p m .
From November Ito May 1. Leave Boston eve
ry wednesday and Friday at 9 a m,arrive at Taun
ton by 8 P m, and at New Bedford on Thursday &
Saturday by 8 p m. Returning. Leave New
Bedford evcry Monday and wednesday by 9 a m.
arrive at Taunton by j 8 r k, and at Boston on
Tuesday and Thursday by 7 p m.
26. From New Bedford to Nantucket, twice a
week from November Ito May 1. Leave New
Bedford every Friday and Monday by 6 a m, ar
rive at Nantucket in the evening. Leave Nantuc
ket every Saturday and Tuesday by 10 a m, and
arrive at New Bedford in the evening.
From May Ito November t. Leave New Bed
ford every Monday, wednesday and Friday by 10
a m, and arrive at Nantucket in the evening. Re
turning. Leave Nantucket everyTue day,Thurf
day and Saturday at 8 a m, ami arrive at New bed
ford in the evening, winds and tide permitting.
27. From Taunton by Dighton abd Semerfetto
warren once a week.
Leave Taunton every wednesday by 5 a m, and
arrive at warren by 10 a m. Leave warren by I
p m, and arrive at Taunton by 6 pm.
28. From Boston byDedham, Providence, Plain
field, Norwich, New London, Saybrook, Killing
worth, Guilford and New Haven to New York
tl'iree tiriaes a week.
From May I to November 1. Leave Boston eve
ry Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by 16 a m,
arrive at Providence by 6 p m, anrive at Norwich
on wednesday, Friday and Monday by noon, at
New London by 3 p m, arrive at New Haven on
Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at Stan
ford by 9 pm, andst New York on Friday, Mon
day and wednesday by noon. Returning. Leave
New York every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
by 10 a m, 3rrive at New Haven on wednesday,
Friday and Monday by 2 p m, at Norwich on;
Thursday, Saturday and Tuefday,by noon, at Pro-;
vidente by 8 p m, and at Boston on Friday, Mon
day and wednesday by 1 p m.
November Ito May I. I.eavc Boston every
TuefJay, Thursday and Saturday by 9 a M, ar
rive at providence the next days by 9 a m, at New |
London every Thursday, Saturday and Tues
day by noon, at New Haven on Friday, Monday
and wednesday by 3 p m, at Stratford by 8 p m,
and arrive at New York on Monday, wednesday
and Friday by II am. Returning. Leave Nsw
York every Saturday, Tuesday and Thursday by II |
a m, arrive at Stratford the next days by 8 p m, at]
New Haven on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday'
by 9 A M, at New London on wednesday, Friday
and Monday by 3 p m, at providence, Thursday,
Saturday and Tuesday by 4 p m, at Boston on Fri-;
day, Monday, and wednesday by 3 p m.
29. From Boston by Dedham, Mendon, pomfret
and Tolland to Hartford once a week.
Leave Boston every Thursday by 7 a m, arrive l
at Hartford the next Saturday by 6r m. Return
ing. Leave Hartford every Monday by 8 A M,
and arrive at Boftoa on wednesday by 5 p m.
30. From New Bedford to Newport once a
week.
Leave New Bedford every Thursday by 6 a m,
and arrive at Newport by 4p m. Leave Newport
every Friday by 8 am, and arrive at New Bedford
by J p m.
31. From Worcester by Rutland, Pcterfham and
Northfield to Brattleborough once a week.
Leave worcester every Tuesday by I v m. ar.d
arrive at Brattleborough on wednesday by 6 p m.
Returning. Leave Brattleborough evefy Thurs
day by 6 a m, and arrive at worcester on Friday
lioon.
32. From Breokfield by Belchertown, North
ampton, worthington, pittsfield and New Lebanon
to Albany
Leave Brookficld every Tuesday and Friday by
9a m, arrive at Northamptun by ( p m. Leave
Northampton every wednesday and Saturday at 5
A M, arrive at pittsfield by I P M, and at Albany
on Thursday and Monday by 7 p m. Rcturniug
Leave Albany every wednesday and Saturday at 5
a m, arrive at pittsfield by 5 r m, at Northamp
ton on Thursday and Monday by 7 r m, and ar
rive at Brookfleld on Friday and Tuesday by 4
p m.
33. From Springfield by Weftfield and Stock
bridge to Kinderhook onco a week.
May 1 to November 1. Leave Springfield eve
ry Tuesday by 3 p M, arrive at Kinderheok on
Thursday by 6 P M. Returning. Leave Kinder
hock cvrry Friday by 9 AM, arrive at Stock
bridge fey 3p M. Leave Stockbridge on Monday
by 6 a m , and arrive at Springfield by? pm.
November I to May 1. Leave Springfield every
wednesday at' 6 a m, and arrive at Kinderhook on
I hurfday by 1r m. .Returning;. Leave Kinder
hook on Tl.urfday by4P m, arrive at Stockbridge
on Friday noon I.cave Stockbridge every Tues
day at 6 a m, and arrive at Springfit Id by 7 p M.
34. From fuffield by Weft
ton, Greenfield, Braukborough, Weftminftcr, Wal
pole, Chirleftown and Windfoi to Hanovei twice a
week.
Leave Suffield every Tuesday and Fri lay at am,
nive at Northampton by 1 p m, at Walpole on V/ed
nt May and Saiurdav by j r k, at Wind or on Mon
day and Thursday by « rM, and at Harover by 7 r
M. Returning. Leave Hanover every Tuesday and
Friday by 6 a m,arrive «t Windsor by 1 r«,it Wal
pole on Wednesday and Saturday by 7 P X, and at
Norihampton on Thursday a.id Nfoiday by neon, and
at Sufiwld by 7 f m.
35. From Hanover by Orfoid .and Haverhill, to
Newbury once a week.
Leave Hanover every Wednesday by 6 a m, arrive
ar Haverhill by 4 pm, and at Newbury by 5 P'M.
Returning. Leave Ncwburv every Thursday by 6 a
m, arrive at Haverhill by 8 a m, and at Hanover by
6 pm.
Vt HMO NT.
36. From Windsor, by Royalfton, Randolph, Wil
Jiamlton aud Montpeiiei to Burlington once in-two
Weeks.
Leave Windsor every other Thuifday by 6 a m,
and arrive at BurSingtonthc next Saturday bv 6 p m.
Returning. Leave Burlington every other Monday
by 6 am, and arrive at Windsor on Wednesday by 6
F M
37. From Wind Tor to Ru'land o* cea week.
Leave Rutland every Monday by 7 a m, and arrive
at Windsor on Tuesday by 6 rm. Returning.
Leave Windsor every Wcdnelday by 6 am, and ar
rive at Rutland on Thursday by 6 p m.
38. From Burlington by Vergtnnes and Middle
bury to Rutland once a week.
Leave Burlington every Tf urfday by 8 a m, and
arrive at Rutland oa Saturday by 6p m. RetumiHg.
Leave Rutland every Monday by 8 a arrive at
Burlington on Wednesday noon.
39. From Rutland by M-nehefler, Bennington,
Lanfingburg and Troy to Albany.
Leave Rutland every Monday at 8 a M,and arrive
at Albany the next Wednesday by 6p m. Return
ing. Leave Albany every Thursday by 8a m, and
arrive at Bennington by 7 p vj* Leave Bennington
on Friday by 8 a m, and airive at Rutland on Satur
day by 7 r m-
R HjDE'iSLAND.
40. From Providence by Briitol and Warren to
Newport.
Leirve Providence every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday by 7 a m, and arrive at Newport the fame
days bv 5 PM. Returning. Leave Newport every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday £>y 8 am, and ar
rive at Providence by 4 f m.
41. From Providence by Eafl Greenwich, New
port, South King (lon, Weflerly and Stonington Point
to New London once a week.
Leave Providence every Tuesday bv 8 a w, and
arrive at Newport by 6 pm, leave Newport every
Wednesday by 6 a m, and arrive at New London on
Thuifday by noon. Returning. Leave New Lon
don 011 Thursday by 3 p m, and arrive at Newport on
Friday by 6 p m, leave Newport on Monday by 7 a
m, and arrive at Providence by 5 p m.
CONNECTICUT.
42. From Hartford by Windham to, Norwich
once a week.
Leave Hartford every Tuesday by 6 a M,and ar
rive at Norwich by 7p m. Returning. Leave Nor
wich every Monday by 6 a m, and arrive at Hartford
by 7 p m.
43 From Hartford by Middletown, Modus Land
ingand Colchester to New-London, once a week,
| Leave Hartford every Tuesday at 1p m, and arrive
at London on Wednesday by 7 pm. Return
ing. Leave Nev*- London every Thursday by li a
m, and arrive at Hartford on Friday by 7 p m.
44. From Hartford by New Hartford, Canaan,
Sheffield and Hiltfdale to*Hudfon onee a week
Leave Hartford eveiy Monday at 2 p m, and arrive
at Hudson on Wednesday by 11 am. Returning.
Leave Hudson every Wednesday at 2 r m, and arrive
at Hartford on Friday by it am.
45. From Hartford by Litchfield, New Milford,
Newtown, Danbury and Ridgefield to New York
once a week.
Leave Hartford every Monday by 10 a m, arrive at
Litchfv Id by 7 * m, at New Milford oh Tuesday by
11 a m, anjd at New York on Thursday by 8 am.
Returnrng. Leave New York every Thuifday by 4
p m, arrive at New Mrlford on Saturday noon, at
Litchlield by 7 p m, and at Hartford on Monday by
8 am.
46. From New-Haven by Derby, Southbury,
Woodbury, Bethlem, Litchfield and Gofhen, to Ca
naan, once a week.
Leave Canaan every Monday noon, arrive at Litch
field by 7 pm, and at New Haven on Wednesday by
10 am. Leave New Haven every Wednesday by 2
p m, arrive at Litchfield on Thurlday noon, and at
Canaan by 7 p m.
47. From New York by White Plains, Bedford,
Fredericktown, Dover, Shar n, Sheffield, Great
Barrington, Stockbridge, Pittsfield and Williamflon
to Bennington
Leave New York every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday at 5 A M, the next Wednesday, Friday and
Monday at 6P M. Returning. Leave Bennington
every Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by 5 A M,
and arrive at New ?ork tbemext Saturday, Tuesday
and Thurlday by 6 P M.
If the stages run but once a week on this route'the
mail isto leave New York every Monday at 5 A M,
arrive at Bennington on Wednesday by 6 P M. Leave
Bennington on Thursday by 5 A M, and arrive at
New York on Saturday by 6 P M.
48. From New York by Yonkers,Peekfkill, Fifh
kill, Poughkeepfie, Rhinebeck, Redhcok, Clermont,
Hudson, Claverac and Kinderhook to Albany three
times a week.
Leave New York every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday by 2 P M, arrive at Tarrytown by 8 P M.
Leave Tarrytown every Tuesday, Thursday and Sa
turday at 5 A M, arrive at Poughkeepfie by 7 P M.
Leave Poughkeepfie Wednesday, Friday and Sunday
by 5A M, arrive at Kinderhook by 7 P M. Leave
Kinderhook every Thursday, Saturday and Monday,
at 5 A M, and arrive at Albany by 8A M. Return
ing. Leave Albany Thuifday, Saturday and Mon
day by 3 P M, arrive at Kinderhook by 7 P M.
Leave Kindei hook Friday, Sunday and Tuesday, at
5 am, arrive at Poughkeepfie by 7 p m. Leave
Poughkeepfie Saturday, Monday and Wednesday, at
5 AM, arrive at Tarrytown by 7p m. Leave Tarry
town every Snnday, Tuesday and Thursday, at 5 a
m, arrive at New Vork at 11 a m.
49. From Albany by Troy end Lanfingburgh, to
Saltm, once a week.
Leave Albany every Tuesday at 8 a m, arrive at
Lanfingbnrgh by 10 a m, and at Salem by"4 p m. Re
turning. Leave Salem every Monday, by 8a m, and
airive ai Albany by 5 p m.
50. From Salem by Gianville, Fairhaven, Ver
gennes, Bason-Harbour, Willfboro', Peru and Pitts
burgh, to Champlain.town, once in two weeks,
Leave Salem every other Wednesday by 5 AM, and
arriveat Plattfburgh the next Sunday by 5p m. Re
turning. Leave Plattfburgh every oiher Monday at 8
a m, and ariive at Salem the next Friday by 4 p m.
51. From Lanfingburgh by Waterford, Stillwater,
Fort Edward, Whitehall landing and Fairhaven, to
Rutland, in Vermout.
Leave Lanfingburgh every Thursday by noon, and
arrive at Rutland the next Saturday by 6 p m. Re
turning. Leave Rutland every Monday by noon,
and an ive at Lanfingburgh on Thursday by 10 am.
52. From Albany by Scheneftady, Tripes Hill,
Conajohanyj German Flatts, Old Fort Schuyler an-l
Whitestown to Rome. The times dejired toUfiated in
the proposals.
53. From Schene&ady by Balltown Springs and
Glenfb idge to Sandy Hill once a week.
Leave Schenettady every Tuesday by 6 a m. and
arrive at Sandy Hill by 4p m. Leave Sandy .Hill on
Wednesday by 6 am, and arrive at Schcne&ady by
4PM
-54. From Tripefhill to Johnflon once a week.
Leave Tripefhill in one hour after the mail arrives
from Albany on Tuesday, arrive at Johnflon in two
uts, flay at Johnflon two hours, and return to
Tripefhill in two hours.
55. From Conajoharry by Cherry Valley to Coo
pcrltown twice a week.
Lfeave Conajoharry every Wednesday and Saturday
at 6 am, and arrive at Cooperltown by 2 P M.
Leave Cooperftown every Tuesday and Friday by 10
a m. and arrive at Conajoharry by 6 r M.
56. From Cooperftown by Butternuts and Oxford
t •> Union once in two weeks.
Leave Union every other Monday by 10 a m, and
arrive at Cooperftown on Wednesday by 5p m. Re
tuning. Leave Cooperftown every other Thursday
by 6 a M,a*d arrive at U»»it.n on Saturday by 3 p m.
y. From Old Fort Schuyler by Cincinnati to
Oxiord Academy once in two xveeks.
Leave Old Fort Schuyler every other Thursday by
6 am, and arrive at Oxford on Friday noon. Re
turning. Leave Oxford every other Fr day by 1 tm,
and arrive at Old Fort Schuyler on Saturday by 7 '
P M.
58- From Rome by to Rotterdam once
in '.wo weeks*
Leave Rome every other Thurfdry by 1® a m. and
arrive at Rotterdam by 6 rm. Returning. Leave
Rotterdam every other Friday by 9 a m, and arrive
a: Rome By 6P\I.
49. From Rome by Oneida, Onondaigua, Scipio
and Geneva to Kanandaigua onee a week.
Leave Rome every Thursday by io A M, and ar
rive at Kanandaigua the next Monday by 6 A M.
Leave Kanandaigua every Monday by 10 A M, and
arrive at Rome the next Thursday by 8 AM.
60. From Kanandaigua by Haitford to Niagara
once in two weeks.
Leave Kanandaigua every other Monday b/ 10-A
M, and arrive at Niagara the uexr*Wedncfday by 7 P
M. Returning. Leave Niagara every other Friday
by 6 A M, and arrive at Kan-ndajgua the next Mon
day by 6 AM.
61. From Rhinebcck by Kingston, Shawan;iunk,
Wardfbridge, Gofhen, Hamburg, Newtown, John
foniburg and Hope, to Ealton, once a week.
Leave Eafton every ThufTday by 3 P M, and arrive
at Rhinebcck the next Sunday by PM. Returning.
Leave Rhincbeck rvery Monday by 8 A M, and arrive
at Eafton en Thuifday by 10 A M.
62. Fiom New York by Ha ken'.ack, Paramua,
New Antrim and Chester to Gofhen once a week.
Leave New York every Friday at 7 AM, and ar
rive at Go(hen on Saturday by 6 P M. Returning.
Gofhen every Tuesday at 6 A M, and arirvc at
New York on Wednesday by 6 P M.
63. From Fifhkillby Newburgand New V. indfor
to Gofhen once a week.
Leave Fifhkill every Wednesday by 7 A M» and
arrive at Golhen by 5 P M. leave Gofhen every
Tuesday at 7 A M, and arrive at Fifhkill by 5 P M.
64. From New Y»rk by Jamaica, Huntington,
Smithtown, Brookhaven, Suffolk, Southampton &
Bridgehampton t® Saohaibour once a week.
Leave New York every Thursday at 10 A M, and
arrive at Sagharbour the next Saturday by 6 P M.
Leave Sagharbour every Monday at 8 A M, and ar
rive at New York on Wednesday by 5 PM.
NEIV-JERSLY.
65. From Woodbridge to Amboy three times 9
week.
Leave Wood bridge svery Monday, Wednesday £1
Friday at 8 A M, and arrive at Amboy by 9 A M.
Leave Amboy at noon and arrive at Woodbridge by
1 PM.
66 From Trenton by Allentown, Monmouth
court-house, Shrewsbury, Middletown Point, Spotf
wood, New Brunfwick, Somerlet, New Gernynton,
Pittfton and Flemington to Trenton once a week.
Leave Tijentou every Tuesday by 10 A M, and rfr
tHrn to Trenton the next TucCday by 6 A M.
67. From Philadelphia by Taunton aud Atfion to
Tuckerton once in two weeks.
Leave Philadelphia every other Wednesday by 3
P M, arrive at Tuckerton on Thursday by 6 P M. ,
Leave Tuckerton every other Tuesday by 6 A M, and ;
arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday by 9 A M.
68. From Philadelphia by Woodbury, Swedefbo
rough, Woodftown and Salem to Bridgetown once a
week.
Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday afternoon by
3 e'clock, and arrive at Bridgetown on Friday by 2
PM. Leave Bridgetown on Saturday at,B AM ; and
arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday at 9 A M.
6o* From Philadelphia by Jenkintown,.Piumftead
and Pipers by Bethlehem to Eafton once a week.
Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday by Jo A M,
and arrive at Eafton 011 Thursday by 2 P.M. Return
ing. Leave Eafton every Monday at 9 A M, and ar
rive at Philadelphia on Tuesday by .3 P M.
70. .Frdm Plumftead by Pipers and Alexandria to
Pittfton once a week.
Leave Plumftead every Thurijdayby 5 A M, arrive
at Pittfton by 11 A M. Leave Pittfton by 1 P M,
and arrive at by 7 P M.
71 . JErom Ealton to Wilkefbarre once a week.
Leaw Eafton every Thursday by 3 P M, and arrive
at Wilkefbarre on Saturday noon. Returning. Leave
Wiikcfbarrre every Tuesday noon, and arrive at Ea
fton every Thursday by noon.
72. From Philadelphia by Norriftown, Trap,
Pottfgrove, Reading, Lebanon and Harrifburg to
Carlisle.
Ottober 15 to April 15. Leave Philadelphia every
Tuesday and Thursday at sunset, arrive $t Reading
every Thursday and SatQrday at 4 PM Leave Read
ing every Friday art 8 A M, arrive at Carlisle every
Sunday by 11 AM. Returning Leave Carlisle eve
ry Sunday by 2 P M, arrive at Reading on Tuesday
by 4 P M, leave Reading every Wednesday aud
Monday by 8 A M, and arrive at Philadelphia on
Thursday and Tuesday by 4 P M.
A P r >' >s> to Ottober 15. Leave Philadelphia eve
ry Wednesday and Friday at 8 A M, arrive at Read
ing on Thurlday and Saturday by 11 A M. Leave
Reading every Thursday noon, and arrive at Carlisle
the next Saturday by 11 M. Returning. Leave
Carlisle every Monday noon, arrive at Reading on
Tuesday bv 7P M. Leave Reading every Wednes
day and Monday at 8 A M, and arrive at Philadel
phia on Thursday and Tuesday by 9 A M.
73. From Reading by Hamburg' Sunbury and
Northumberland to Louifburg once a week.
Leave Reading every Ejiday at 6 A M, and arrive
at Louifhurg on Monday by 10 A M. Returning.
Leave Louifburg every Tuelday noon, and arrive at
Reading on Thursday by 4 P M.
74. From Harrifburg by Petersburg, Millerftown,
Thorapfontpwn, Miftlintown, Lou.flown, Hunting
don, Alexandria, Centre Furnace, Belle Fount, Milei
burg, Aaronfburg, Mifflinburg, Lsouifburg, Northum
berland, Sunbury and Halifax to Harrifburg once in
two weeks.
Leave Harrifburg every Saturday by 6 A M, wait
ing at each pott office which (hall be eftablilhed on
the route, two hours, and return again to Harrilburg
the next Monday by 8 A M.
75. From Sorr.erfet by Connellfville to Union once
a week.
Leave Somerlct every Thursday by 5 A. M.arrive
at Union by 4P. M. Leave Union every Friday bv
8 A. M and arrive atSomerfetby 7 P. M.
76. From Pittfburg by Canoonfburg, W;ih n&tor,
Weft Liberty and Wheeling, to the mouth of Fil
ing Creek, once a week.
Leave Pittfburg every Friday by noon, and arrive
at Fishing Creek on Sunday by 9 A M. Returning.
Leave Fishing Creek ev& ry Wednesday by 4 P M,
and arrive at Pi tfburgthe nex Friday by xo<A M.
77. From Preston by Washington to Cincinnati
once a week.
Leave Preflon every Friday at noon, arrive atWafh
ing'on bv 8 PM, and at Cincinnati the next Monday
noon. Returning. Leave Cincinnati every Tuesday
at 6A M, and arrive at Washington on Wednesday
bySPM. Leave Washington at 9 P'M, aud arrive
at Preston on Friday by ix\ A M.
From Petersburg bv City Point to Bermuda Hund
red, three times a week.
Leave Petersburg every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday by 6 A M, and arrive at Bermuda Hundred
by jo AM. Leave Bermuda hundred by 11 A M,
add arrive at Petcrfbr.rg by 3 P M, on the fapiedays.'
KENTUCKY.
78. From Washington by Springfield, Bourbon,
Lexington, Frankfort and FJarrodfburg to Danville
Once a week, <
Leave Washington every Saturday by 8 A M, and
arrive at Danville the next Monday by 5P M. Re
turning. Leave Danville every Tuesday by 8 AM,
and arrive at Lexington on Wednesday noon, and at
Wafhingti n on Thursday by 6 P M.
-/Q. From Danviljc to Leu fville by Beardftown
once in two weeks.
Leave Danville every other Tuesday bv npon< ar
rive at Louisville the next Thursday by '3 P M.
Returning Leave Lot—.iile every other Friday by
6 A M, and arrive at Danville on Saturday by 6 P M.
§o. From Danville by Stamford and Cumberland
Gap to Moffat's store in Tennessee once a week
Leave Danville every Monday at 2 P M. and arrive
at Moffat's store the next Thursday by 6 P M. Le«ve
Moffat's (lore every Friday by 6 A M, aud arrive at
Danville on Monday by 10 A M.
TENNESSEE,
81. From Knoxville by South Well Poiot and
Fort Blount ana Craig Fore to Nashville once in two
weeks.
Leave Knoxville every other Tuesday by 8 A M,
and arrive at Nashville the next Monday by 9 A M.
R.' u-ning. Ltivc Nafhvilk every o hcr Monda) by
3 P M, and uiive at Knoxville the next Sa urday by
8 PM.
MARYLAND AND VIRGINIA.
Ba. From Baltimore by Ellieot's Lower Mills,
Montgomery Court House, Charlelburg, Leelbarg,
Middleburg and Warrenton to Culpeper, c. H. once a
week
Leave Baltimore every Monday noon, arrive at
Lecfburgon Turfday evening, and at Culpeper Court
House the next Thursday noon. Returning. Leave
Culpeoer Court House every Friday noon and arrive
at Baltimore the next Monday by 9 A M.
83. From Allen'* Frefli by Ludlow'i ferry to Port
Conway in Virginia once in two weeks.
Leave Allen's Frefli every other Monday by 6 AM,
and artive at Port Conway by 6P M. Returning,
Leave Port C«nway every other Tuesday by 8 AM, ,
and arrive at Allen's Frelh by 7 PW.
84. From Morgantown by Petty John to toClarkf
bury once in two weeks.
Leave Morgantown everv other Monday by 5 A
M, and arrive at Clarksburg bv 5 PM. Returning.
Leave Clarljfljurg every other Tuesday by 8 A M,and
arrive at Morgantown by 8 P M.
85. From Todds to King and Queen, e. a. once a
week.
Leave Todds ev?ry Thursday by a A M, arrive at
King and Queen by at A M Leave King and Queen
at 1 P M, and arrive at Todds by 6 P M.
86. From Hajifax by Danville to Cafwell courf
houfe once in two weeks.
Leave Halifax epuri-lioufe every other Tuesday by
2 P M, arrive at Cafwell court.house the next Wed
nesday by 6 PM. Returning. Leave Cafwell C. H.
every other Thursday bv 6 A M, and arrive tt Halifax
court-house on Friday by noon.
87. From Peterfburgh by Suffer court house
and Southampton court house to South Quay, once
in tvro weeks.
Leave Petersburg every other Wednesday by 6
A M and arrive at South Q,uay on Thursday by 6
PM' Returning. Leave South Quay every other
Monday by 6 A M and arrive at Peterflbur? on
Tuesday by 3 P M.
NORTH.CAR9LINA, (3c ' '
88. From Newbernto Beaufort andSwaniboro
once in two weeks, the mail te go alternately.
L*ave Newbern every other Thursday by 6 A
M, remain at each of the offices two hours, and
return to Newbern the next
89. From Wilmington by Georgetown to Char
lelton, once a week.
Leave Wilmington every Monday hy 6 A M
and arriva at Charleston the next Thursday bv 10
AM. Leave Charleston every Thursday by 3 P
M and arrive at Wilmington the next Sunday by
5 PM. '
9 3 From Norfplk by Kempfville, Great Bridge
and North W e ft River Bridge to Tonefboro\ once
in two Meeks
Leave Norfolk every other Wednesday at 9 A
M and arrive at Jonefboro' on Thursday by 7 P M»
Returning. Leave Jonefboro' every other Monuay
by 10 AM and arrive at Norfolk on Tuesday by 6
P M.
91. From North Weft River Bridge by New Le
banon to Elizabeth city, once in two weeks.
Leave North Weft River Bridge every other
Friday hy 6AM add arrive at Elizabeth city by
6P M. Leave Elizabeth city ev-ry other Satur
day by 6 A M, and arrive at N. W. river bridge
by 6 p M. ( 6
91, Fron\ Salem, N. C. by Bethania, Flower-
Gap Grayfoncourt-houfe and />. uftinville to Wythe
court-house once in two we«ks. '
Leave.Salem othe- Saturday by 6 A M,
and arrive at Wythe c. h. the next Mon. by 6 p M.
Leave Wythe court house every other Tuesday by
9 A. M, and arrive at Salem the next Thursday by
6 PM.
93. From Mu.freelboro' by South Quay toSuffolk
once a week.
From Murfreefboro' every Wedne r day by 6A M,
arrive at Suffolk by 6 PM. Returning. Leave Suf
folk every Tuesday by 6 A M, and arrive at Murfreef
boro' b^6PM.
94. From Fayetteville to Pittfburg once in two
weeks.
Leave Fayetteville every other Wednesday by 6 A
M, auo arriye at Pittfburg on Thursday at 10 A Mi
Leave Pittfburgeve'y other by 2 PM,andar
rive at Fayetteviile on Friday by 6 P M.
GEORGIA AND SOU TH-CAROLINA.
9J. From Au ,ufta by Robinson at the White
Ponds aad Gillcts mills to Coofahatci y, oV.ce a
week.
Leave Augusta every Tuesday by 8 A M and ar
rive at Ceofahatchy on Wednesday by 7P M. Re
turning. Leave Coofahatchy ey-ry Sunday at 6 A
M and arrive at Augusta on Monday by 5 P M.
96. From Georgetown te Rocky Landing in
Georgia, once in two weeks.
Leave Georgetown every other Monday at 6 A
M, and arrive at Rocky Landing at jP M. Re
turning. Leave Rocky Landing every otherTuef
day by 6 A M and arrive at Georgetown by 6 PM •
NEW JERSEY.
67. From NewtnwnDy Hacketftown, Morriflown
and Chatham to Newaik, and from k back bv
Chatham, Morrifbwn, Boane.o.i, Rockaway and
Sparta to Newtown, once a weelt.
Leave Newtown evet y Thursday by g A M and ar
rive at Newark on Friday by 10 AM. Leave New
ark every Friday by 2 P M, and atxive at Newtown
on Siturday by 6 P M.
Note I. The Poji Master Gcncrc&mray alter the times
of arrival and departure at any time during the continuance
of thecontraßs, be previoxfly flipulating an adequate com
pensation fur any extra cxpenfe that may be Qccgfwned then
y /
Note 2. Half an hour foj.ll l/e allowed for opening
and clofwg the IVtmilat all offices -where no particular time
is fpecifed.
Note 3. For every hour's delay (unavoidable accidents
exc Ppf d J»» arriving as ter the tines ptefcribed in any cen
tral, the Contraflor Jfiall jorjeil one dollar, and if the dc
lay continue uytil the departure »f any depending Marl,
whereby the Mails definrf for such depending Mail, bje
a / ri py M■ additional forjeitune of five do lars /hull be
incurred*
Atye 4. Neivfpapers as iue',l qe Letters are t» be font
in the Mails ; and if any person making protofals def.res
to carry new/papers other thin tbofe conveyed in the mai\
for his own emolument, he must Jfate in Lis proprfals for
ivhat sum he ivill carry it nvith that emolume.-a and for
yobat sum wiiher.t that tmolumenf.
Note 5- SUnld any perfun wiling prcpoft.ls desire fin
alteration of the times of arrive! and departure above fte
cifed, he must late in his proposals the alterations de'i 'red t
an i the difference they ivill make in the terms of hit c*n~
trad.
bfote 6. Persons rypking prcpofnls are dtftreJ to Jlpte
their prices {/y the ycjr. 7hife who coprati tvill receive
their pay qacrter'y. in tie months of January, April,
July and ofitter.
Note 7. The contra&s are to be in operation on the frit
day of O&cbcr next, and continue for four yeai s, until
the fir (I cf October lßoi—excepting c.r.tr'.tfs for the
routes No. 8, 9, 10, 3 i, 36,*50" 51, 57, 60, 74,
7"> 77> 8c», 81, 83, 84. 87, 90, 91, 92, 96 —
•winch are to continuejor two years until th \fl of Othber f
1799-
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
PoJl-Ma/ler General.
General Poll-Office, Philadelphia, )
May j7th, 1797. 3
Juce I. JlwtJiJ