of and -« hiladelphid Daily Advertiser.
Numb EX 1579.]
SALES BV AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRY GOODS.
SFccenoon —Edward Fox, No. s(>,
smith Frnnr-'lreet,
J Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 6 5
C_ South Front street.
f'Forenoon—John Connelly, OldCltv
vKu-r:Audlion, Mo. 73 south i r ront-ftreet.
" j l ". —William Shannon, No.
(_ IS3 High-street.
Wcttnefibj f aenfon ' No - 74
( south Third-ftrctft.
Thuddcy \ r,H'r„oon_£clvard Fox.
y t Afternoon —John CctiatUy.
Friday I l;>veno<»n-\ViIU,. Shannon.
3 Afternoon-—John Lonnelly.
SutHrday Afternoon—Peter Benfcn.
For Freight or Charter,
THE/good BIIJC
I S y K E T,
J-.r ... Isaac Vredenburg, Matter;
NOW lying at Clifford's whan, and in
order to receive a cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain en board, or
jffkn Styrin,
No. Bii Arcb-ftreet.
IVHO HAS FOR SALE,
2000 wt.of doublerefinedSaltpetre
♦ 6co Vrt. of F F Gun powder
300 barrels of Herrings v
50 bulhel<. of Timothy Seed
150 cafe- rif Claret, firfb quality
And a qnantily of Shtrry Wine,
ept. 29. dtf
HAVANNA SUGARS.
FOR SALE,
1400 boxes and cases prime white Havan
.na SUGARS,
On board the fliip Hamburgh Packet, Silas
Swain, Matter, now lying at Marcus Hook.
For terms, apply to Capt. Swain, on board, to
Capt- Samuel Smith, in Front, near Wal
nut street, or to
Philip Nictlin, & Co.
Who offer the said Ship
Hamburgh Packet
J§«SSALE or CHARTER.
She U 310 sons rfgilter, coppered to the bends,
fails remarkabiyfaft, and tan be ready to re
ceive a cargo in a few days.
Sept. it. diw
, Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing from on board the
Brig A.3ive, William Williams, Mafler,
One Hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale bv
Jthu Hollingfworth & Co.
Wilmington, Sept.n. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
the brig GAYOSO, are
also for Sale or Charter, ard
now ready to receive a cargo
onboard, nt Wilmington. Apply as .•.hove.
For Savannah,
j——*- fall failing (hip,
• SWIFT PACKET,
>Patr,ck Gribbin, Mafler,
Now lying oppofi'e lh: mouth
of Frankford Creek, has handsome accommoda
tions for pasT; ngers, and will fail on or about
the tfl of Oilober. '
For freight or palfape apply to the mafler on
board) orcfthcfubfcrtbers at Frinkford, 5 i-»
miles from Philadelphia.
Natbro Iff y. Frazier.
Frnnlcford, Sept. js. dtiftO.
For HAMBURGH, .
Copper Bottomed Ship
v , X FA v ORI TE, John
Thompson, Miller, now at
Briglu'. wharf, and will he rea-
dy to take in on Monday next,
part of her cargo being engaged
and ready to go on board. The (hip is so well
known, that it is neediefs to describe her. She
15 now in compteat order. For Freight.or Pdf
fage, please to apply at Mr Jeremiah Warder's
Compting House, No. 11, North Third street,
or to the Master on bord.
August jo.
For SALE,
On board the said Ship, Swedilh Iron, aflorte:!
Hyllowand Window Glass, Demyjohns, Wrap
ping Paper for" Sugar Refiners, Rugs of l & a
Quality. Please to apply as above.
wf&m4w
FOR SALE;
BRF.TAGNES in cases
German Checksin do.
Cambrick^
// Plattillas %
Oznabrigs
Gold and silver Watches
'Window Glass 10 by
Glass Tumblers in cases
Linseed Oil in casks, &c. &c.
George Pennock,
103, Hirh-Strcit.
_ s • 3 aw
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
find elegant house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and one dining room—the largest is feet by
26 —and.two are so conne<sled by folding doors
as to make blit one. Alfjj, five bed rooms, be
sides 5 in the garret, well finifhed for servants.
There are flables and a coach house, with evry
convenience for a family. Enquire at No. 29,
in North Seventh street, or at Ncf. 218, Arch
Street.
Aug. 15. 2aw3^'.^
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufailured as usual,
Ginger and !-rpper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley \
Bliiladelpjiia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
J,ondon Porter
Tannton and Button Ale
Red Port and other Wines, cithe bottled,
or hy the pipe, qua: ter-c?.'* or gal|on—.fuitablt
for exportation or home consumption
For Sale by
Jnhn Haworth.
' No. 9? south front ftre«t^
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 30, 1797.
The Partnership,
UNDER the firm of FK.KEM AN iff Company,
is dilTolved cortfeat. All persons
having any demands agiinft tkefaid House are de
sired to render the fa'v.e to 'l'. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to the Hvitife are desired to make pay
ment to him—3y whem bufinds will in future be
carried on, at his Store, No. 39, South Front-flreet.
August 7 , i
_ Young Hyson Sea.
40 chests ot a superior quaiity—Alio,
ioodoiof Hjfon,
Imported in the IVoodrop Sims, and for fa!e by
the fubferiber, corner of Second and Pine
l^reet.
C. Haight. -
June at. eotf
Imported in the jhip Pigou, •
And for sale by John Morton, No. I (6, South
Front-street,
Hvfon
Hyson Skfn
Tonng Hyson C
Imperial J
April 20. Eot/
~The~Norfolk Mail STAGE.
r Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
I at the corner of Second and Arch Street", in
Philadelphia, rv;.ry Tutfday, TburfJay t and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, ia the iroraing ; arrives at Do
ver the fir ft day, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the # third day, and on
the morning ol the fourth day t«.e paflengers find
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, and t,he
Stige starts from thia ferry for Philadelphia, evqry
Mou»ay, Wodnefday and Friday ;Jputs up at Snow
Ifill the firft night, at Dover the 2d night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thcdiftance on this routs between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles less than on any stage rout
between thofc placqu •
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is oioft excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to returh the whole fare to any
paifenger, who, after having performed th-is route,
will fay that hi: ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
August 11. dim. eotf.
This Day Publiftied,
And to be fold by WILI.IAM YOUNG, corner of
✓ Second and Chcfnut streets,
Price $-%tbs of a Dollar,
Obfervaiions on icrtain Documents
Contained in No. V and VI of
" T'ae History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the charge or speculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasury, is FULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BT HIMSELF.
This publication presents a concise ftaiement
of the bafc means pra&ifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the charaders of ihof«
psrlons who arc considered as hostile to their disor
ganizing fchcmc?. It nlfo contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton apd MeiTrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and on the-fub
je& of the documents aiorefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr.Ha
milton, proving beyond the possibility of a doubt,
tlißt the connedlipn between him and Reynolds,
was the rel'ult of a daring conlpiraay on the part
of the latter and his afTociates to extort money.
A discount of one third from the retail price
win be-mpde in favor ot wholefaie purchafcr*, for
cash. Orders to be addrefTed to Mr. Yovng..
siugufl 25.
No. 188.
Dtjlrifl of Ptnnfylvatria y io wit :
(1,3.) U B | j REMEMBERED, that on the
1) twenty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Fs;nno, of the said dif
tri<fl,hath depofitcd in the title of a book,
the r;i;ht whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
words following, t-o wit :
" Observations on certaia documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of " The History of the Unit
" ed States for the year 1796," in which tha charge
" of fprculatibn, againll Alexander Hamilton, late
" Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
" Written by himfelf "
In conformity tofhe a& of thcCor,grcf» of the
Ucited States, entituled, "An ait for the encour
agement of learning, by feenring the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors propri
etors of such copies, during th« times therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL" CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Dijlritl of Pennsylvania.
J*i*y 27. 7 W4W
Mrs. GKA 1' TAN '
INFORMS her friends,and the public in general,
that her house, No. 192, Market-street, will con
tinue open during the fieknefa.
Board and Lodging in a separate room,' ten
noLLARs, in a double room, eioht dollars.
For tjie convenience of those gentlemen who
have not their amines in town, Mrs. Grattan
will receive gentlemen to dine at half a dollar
a day. August 29.— 6t
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Amilerdam and Hamburg, andforfale by
B. & J. Bqhlen,
A large ajforlment of _fine French Cambrics,
Platillas KufliaindDutch failcUjth
Bnttannias Writing, and £rint-
Rouanes ing paper
Brown Holland Du;ch calf /kins
Checks and liripes Prime madder
Ticklenhurgs Shell'd Barley
pznaliuigs Looking glaiTVs
White (heetings Hollow glass ware
Diaper Slates
Brown rolls ■ Coffee mills
Umbrellas lirafs kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and draw knives
Black and whitelaces Toys affprted in lioxts
Bcft Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Madeira Wine ,
July 24- m&thtf
Cedar Shingles.
THE fubferiber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar
Shingles of alfuperior quality, for sale at 13
dollars p»r tlioufand. ,
William Hallow ell,
' No, 193 North Third-Jlreet.
July %]. aout
By John Fex;.;o, N° 119 Cbejnut Street
Cl/STOM-HOUSE,
Pkileedelpijia, Scpt.nd, 1797.
THE Me'ehants who at this time prefer hav
ing their veflllj and Merchandise entered pnd
cleare<l at or Mafcu? Hoplp,—are here
by notified, That in compliant e v. :rh their de
iire, and upr>n a full, convi&ipn that the measure
mutually beneficial to thein and to the
'Jnited ?tates. The ci'lleifloi-of fl<t cullonishas
made arrangements to eftaKlilh f>'r some time
branches of the cufiom-houfe at those pUces,
where every accommodation in his power will
be given to the merchants. diw
~ TO BE SOLD, -
And immediate pojfejfwn given,
A Convenient well fiuiflied Crick Tenement,
with a cook house and other out hou(er',fitu
ated in a pieafant part of the borough of Wilming-'
ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
has forty feet front on Weft-ilreet, and extends
through the square to Paftur -street, on which H
erc«ilcd a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, so.
Lately Publi(hed» .
In one vol. o.vo- (price one dollar in beards) fold
by M ILL! AM YOUNG, corner of Second and
1 Chefivut Greets,
A Collection of Paperj x on the fubjeft of
Billious Fevers, prevale<it in the United
States for a few years pall.
Compiled by NO AH I'. 'F DSTER, jun.
Containing letters fron Dv><3oro'Seaman, Sviith,
Duel, J aylor, Ramfny, Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch
ell, on contagion, &c. scc.
T r ct
City CommiJJioners Office,
~ .August 29, 1797.
IN pursuance ofan Ordinance of the Scled and
Common Councils, pafled the lid day of May last.
Propofah in writing will he received hy the City
Commifiiqner* for one month from the ift of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for one
year to commence the firft day of January next,-the
following public prop«rty of the city—
The wharf and landing on Vine Street,
Also on Safiafra.%
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefmit and Walnut Streets, I>raw Bridge, with
the Scale and Fi(h Houses, Spruce, Piue and Cedaf
Streets.
The cellar ond«r the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry pn Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as (hall be occupied by any buildings erect
ed for the use of the Collector of the Tolls, or bs
necelTary for the toll-gate*.)
Ang. 3 Jtawim.
LOST,
ON the Paffyunk Road, between the Blue Ball
and the city, a Fowling Piece, with a brass
barrel and silver fight ; on the plate of the butt are
th« letters " Jamaica, 99"—and on the barrel
near the lock '• London" and the Tower (lamp.
Whoever will return the 'aid piece to Join BcnnarJ,
at the sign of the Blue Ball on the Paflyunk Road,
or the office of this Gazette, fliall receive a reward
of Four French Crowns,
Sept. 12. «jt
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an a£t of Congrcfs ef the
United States of America, patted at Phila
delphia, the 28th day of
ties on Carriage?, for the conveyance of persons,
which fliall be kept fcy or for any person, for his
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conyeyawcc of passengers, the several duties and
to wit:
For aiv4 upon every Coach, 15 do!s.
upon'every Chariot, 12 dols,
upon every Pofl Chariot, la dols.
upon every Post Chaise, 11 doh.
upon every P!iaeton,with or without top, '
9 dols.
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having pannelworlc
above, with blinds, glades 01 curtains,
9 dols.
upon f®ur wheeled Carriage*, having fra
med polls and cops with flee)
doli.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
eifccr iron fprinr* or jacks, 3 dols.
upon Curricles with tops, 3 dols,
upon £haifes with tojw, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel topcarriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or
iron springs, 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 2 doK
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed posts and tops, and relling up
on wooden spars, 2 dols,
The Collectors of the Revenue for the flrft Sur
vey of the Diftri<st of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September n*xt, l<?r
the purpose of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
Geimantown ; at the house of Daniel St. Cloir,Efq.
in the County of Montgomery; and at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ;
of which all perfonspofleffed of fuck Carriages are
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will be grant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the busi
ness of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than 20 gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorised t» grant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeitor of the Revenue of the firft fui
vey of tire DiflriA of Pennfylvaifia.
Office of Infpeflion at
Germantow, lith Sept. I7QJ- 3
IMPORTED
In the (hip America, James Ewipp, matter, from
Hamburgh, "
y Brown Hollands
White Piatillas
Coarfc Linens
Tapes
Looking Gtefes *) . f
Glass 1 umblc rs 3
FOH SALE BV
Gcorge^Pennock.
A/jgufl t4. 3aw
Act laying Duties on Stamped Vellum,
Parchment and Paper.
A FEW copies of the above ait may be had at
the Office of tho Gr'zettt of the States, N«
119, Chcfaut-flreet. July
To be Sold,
And immediate pofiefiioti given,
THa 1' elegant si at, called BLOOAliißUiiY,the
reC.lencc of the late John Cox, Efq with a
hout so acres of Land, fitunte en the T)ehi ware, ex
tending from the mouth oi Affanpickcreek, to TteiW
ton ferry, The wanfion house ti a handfomc wvU
conllrufled Wick building, 50 oy 40 fert, contain
ing four_room< on each floor, with excellent cellars,
and a two flory hrick kitchen. Amo&g tbe out
buildings are a figfie,4cach house (tables, fuf
ficier.t tie contain fix carriages and tell and
a ft one cow hinife, upwards of 100 feet in length.
1 hen- is alfe. a stone farm house with .corn cribs,
Wiggon house, &c. &c. The whole of the premi
ses proposed to be fold with this feat, from their fili
ation and improvements, are such as to be worthy
.the attention of any gentleman wifhipg to ritire
•from the city. There are also about 15, aires ad
joining tbe above, which vjill be <i : vided so as to
accommodate the purchasers* Also, 100 acres ad
jon ing the town lots on the east fide of the street
leading from Trenton to Lamberton, which will
be (old together or in lots, as may best suit the pur
chaser, and Ijo acres of woodland, two railes from
the above land, which will also be divided if re
quired. Thetermi of payment wi'J be made easy,
'and an indisputable title given. Tor furtbrt parti
culars enqure of Mrs. Cox, No. 144, South Fourth
Greet, Philadelphia, John Stevens, F.fq Hoboc
ken, Mathias Barton, Esq. of Lancaßcr, or the
fublcriber at Trenton.
MASKELL EWING.
Trenton, Sept. 25, 1797.
Sept. jo. dtf.
Sundry Lots
IN the following Squares in the City of Wafning
ton wi.l be tjpofed to Public Sale, by the fub
ferihem, on the fccond'Monday in October next,
»£ the Little Hotel, in the said City, to com
mence at 10 o'clock :
Square No. 31, 4J, 43, 44, 47, 48, 49. S°, 55,
66, 67,68,69, o, 73,74, 75, 76, 77. 78. 79.J01,
10a 10.5,118,119,110,141,62,56,84,104, 87,
88, 89, io->, 114, 'ij, 120, 61, 166, 80, 103,
square eafl of square 87,fquarefouth of l'quare 104,
square north of square 8 r, square east of square 88,
square north of square 118.
These I.ots are advantageously situated in the
neighborhood of the President's Square, and deem
ed equal in value to any in the city, and will be
peremptorily fold; dear and valid titles will b«
made to the pur chafer, on receipt of the purchase
money. Terms of sale, are, good notes, negotia
ble at the Bank of Columbia, one fourth part in
one month, one other fourth in three months, one
other fourth in five months, and the remaining one
fourth in seven months.
WILLIAM DEAKINS, jun.
URIAH FORREST.
Sept. 21. dts
At the Federal Blast Furnace,
In Carter—far Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
Mills.
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THEIR superiority conftfls in being free from
holes and honey-.combed places, which are com
mon In found in rollers call in sand, or day
moulds. These patent rollers are cajl in iron
moulds, previously heated, and will be found to
be more dense, solid and durable than any rollers
heretofore used. Another important ad-vantage
they\ have over others, is, that the necks require
no turning, but are immedaitely Jit for use, and
from their accuracy, run with less frißion, and
require less water to make them perform their
work. 7hey may be had by application (0 the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Good
win, or of Mejjrs. Thatcher and Hay ward ■
801 l on, />ur. jl.
Stpt. 19. §(.t.
7E LA i L SO N,
WITH an intention to render service, and unde
ceive those Performers, who during his ab fence Mr.
Jaynjond has thought proper to engage, thinks it
would be wrong in him not to inform those that
'are engaged, that itiswithou his approbation, and,
that he will put be in any way aufwerable for r
Jayraond's engagem- nls
PHILIPPE LAILSON.
"Alexandria, Sept. 15, 1 797 6t.
~THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREENLEAF,
HEREBY give notice, that they have disposed
of tire property assigned to them tor the securing
the payment of the note 5 , acceptances, Jmi en
doifewents given l>y Edward Fox, for'tbtf use
of the foid Jame« Oreenleaf; ?nd thcju.lders of
such notes, acceptancesfrnd' are
hereby potilyed that the fuhfcriliers will f»ttle
with them for the amount of I heir refpe<Sive
claims, both principal and intfrbst, at
any time before the 2cfh day of Odlober nej:t;
after whirh day, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of align
ment.
Applications to be m*de at fotith-eaft comer
of Doek and Second streets (the Dock-ilreet
fide), between the hour's of eleven and one o'
clock every d?y ( Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tho. W. Francis,
John Miller, jun.
John AJhley,
Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, August 18, 1797. d_
Just publifhec],
And to be fold at the Bcokitorej of H. & P.
Kice, No. 50, Market-street j J. Ormrod,
No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, and W. Young,
(•orner of Chefnut and Second-streets,
An accurate System of Surveyings
IN WHICH IS CONTAINrn,
1. Decimal fraflions, in a plain, concise,
and easy manner.
2. The extraflion of the square root.
j. Plain trigonometry, redUngular and ob
lique.
4. An exad method to cad up the fowtents
as lauds.
5. Field surveying.
Tbe whole being performed withrut the use
of scale and compafTes, on a table of logarithms.
In which is given some account cf the valuation
of the need'e, and the causes of its attraction-.
By SAMUEL MOORF..
August I. aawiw
Window Gt.ass,
\
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any oiher in
the Citv—
OF DiRftJUS SIZES,
F.'om Bby 6i019 by 14,
Bv the single Box or Quanifry, may be bad at the
store of the Subscribers, corner oi" Arch and Front-
Ureet.
yames C.iff SaviuelW. Fijhcr.
p:.i! (lelpbia, Juneg, 179,-.
Thomas Herman Leu.ffer,
■North Vifth ftrect, corner of North alley, No. 34,
v HAS fOR SALE,
EXCELLENT red Bourdeaux Wine in cafvsand
boxes, fix years old
Whifc Gsave-s M'me in cafiag
t irklenburgs 1
Russia Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck
Bag Linen
Hcffians
Diaper and Table Cloth
Empty bags
C@ri.mion German Cloth
4n affortmentof black coloured Ribbons
Fine German Laces
About twelve tons Kufiia clean Hemp
Clovt r Reed ■"**
Italian Soup, in small boxes, for family use
v< * meow Glass si
, 1 HJS DAY WAS PUBLISHED,
And for Ole by 7HBM4S DOBSON, at the
Stone Hnufe, No. 41, south Second (lreet #
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
ConfiHing of a variety of Mifcel'aneous Pieces sos
tlv in(lr&&ion and aumfem»nt of YOUNG PER
SONS—Six Volumes handsomely printedand bound
up in t\yo volumv-S, price Two Dollars.
'I he variety snd excellence of these pieces are
such, that the book needs only to be known to be
univerfallv esteemed one of the most valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the hands of young
; pftrfans.
" delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teach the yenng id"a how to shoot»
To pour tk« frefli inftru<slion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' efffivening fpirit,and to fix
1 he generous purpose in the glowing brealt."
Thomson.
f 4 w
THIS D-aY IS PUBLISHED, ~~"
By THOMAS BOBSON, at the Stone Houf«,
No. 41, south Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Young Ladia, on improving and ia
terelting fubjefls.
Translated from the Dutch of Madame de Gambtrn
with alterations and improvements,
Printed onfine paper, and neatly bound t
Price one dollar,
AM IDST the tide of modern Remances, painth®
tales as extraordinary dittrefs, or of dofperate cr
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of your*, ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward to so
licit notice, where, in a yariety of incidents, net ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, becauf;
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the" Female
charafler is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and prefects examples of real and attainable excel •
lencc.
The publiflier was fomuch pleafedwith the perw
fal, that he was persuaded he lhould do a pleasing
service to the community by fending it in o circu
lation. A August 24 —m»4«
To MaflersandPilots bringing up Vejftls
from Foreign Ports to this City.
"XTTHereas sundry infringements have lately been
V V made on thi laws of this (late for the pre"'
venting pettilential or infeiftious diseases, eith<r
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is th»'t
expedient at this time to publilh the following ex
tracts from the laws of lid April, 1794, 7th a*d
Bth fefiions.
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794.
Ext raft of an aft for fccuring the city and part
cf Philadelphia from the introdu&ion of fefli
lential and contagious difetfes.
Sect. 7. And be it lu.&tr enafled, that »\rry
matter or captain of any {hip or vessel coming (jem
sea (vifl'els aitually employed :n the loading trade
excepted) and bound to any port or place within
the jurifdiftion of Pennfylyania.fhall cau'fe his flup
or vessel to be brought to anchor,or otlicrwife flay
ed in the llrcam of the river Delaware, oppefite to
rhe Health-Office on .State-Ifiend aforefaid, and
there to remain until he shall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of heal h from the Resident Phy
sician. And il, previsufly to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any matter or captain (hall
fuffer hit (hip or vessel to approach nearer than the
fa id Health Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
(hall land, cause orfuffcr to be landed, or brought
on (hore, at any place qr port within this Cor
munwealth, qr at any other port cr place, with the
inteßt c( being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any person or persons, or any goods, wares or mer
chandize. or, if after receiving .such bill of health
or certificate, he (hall ncglr<sl or r.fufe to deliver
the fam<- to the Health-Officer, such matter or cap
tain (hall forfeit and p-.y, for each and every such
offence, the fumof r:vs hukbred dollars.
And the captain or matter of every (hip or ves
sel (ball fend a Cafe and commodious boat to bring
the physician on board, and (hall in like manner
conv. j hi *!iack to the Hsalth-Ofiice, after he has
concluded nis facial examination; And while he
is malting such examination, br in rase any subse
quent examination by the Health Officer or Con
futing Physician, agreeably t_-> the dire&ions of
thi- a<S, the matter or captain fhalleipoie or caule
to becxpofedto thefearch of the Rcfidcnt Phyfi
ci-ut.or of the Health Officer and Confultijig physi
cian (a* the cafe may be) tach ahd every part of tHe
(hip or vessel,"and (half present to his view each
and every person or persons on board thereof, and
and (hall also true and fatisfa&ory answers make
to all such (jueftiocs as the Resident Physician, &c.
at the time of examination (hall alk relative to the
health of any pert or place frem which the (hip or
vei'i'el (ailed, or has since touched at—the number
of persons 011 board when the ship or vessel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that have
since been landed or taken on bftard, and when
and whererefpeiflively—»>hat persons on board
f they have been during the voyage, cr shall, at
the time of examination, be infeited with any pef
tilentia! or contagious difeale—and what is the pre
sent state and condition of the persons on board
with refped to their health or diseases. And if
any matter or,captain (hall refufe to expose as as ore
aid, to the fcarch of any of the officers aforefaid,
h if he (hall conceal ar.yfick person, or in any other man
ner deceive tie proper officers aforefaid in Lit anfzvers,
-uch captaiifor mutter,for every such offence, (hall
forfeit and pay the sum of five hundred hol
lars.
Sect. 8. And if amy person or persons whatf®-
ever (the Resident Physician, &c. excepted) ihall
go on board any vessel, before the malisr thereof
has received a certificate of hfal h in the manner
direiVed, every person so offending, (hall pay the
um of ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS
IT being alifolutely necessary that the foregoing
feiilions (hould bp punctually con»plied with, tke
fubferiber, in compliance with his duty, mutt ev
ad: a rigoroas obf.rvance of the fame, or else be
under tlm noEeffity of putting the l»irt in force.
W®. ALI.FN, Heahb Off.err ./ tis
IQt if } 1:1 u. 1 ph:J.
, 'Jiilr M'
[VoLVMn XIIPublic notice is hereby given,
To the Freemen t>f (be City and County of
Philadelphia., arid the County of Delaware,
' I 'HAT a General Eleition will be held on
JL Tn'efday the loth day of October next ,
the eledlion to be opened between the hours of
10 o'c'ock in the forenoon, and I o'clock in af
ternoon —wlie'n the freemen of' the city of Phi
ladelphia are to tnfet fat the State-house, in the
faiu city, to eledl
Six re.prefentatives for the laid city in the gen
era] aflrttibly.
Twenty perlbns for members of common
, council.
four prrl'ons for members of the felc<£l coun
cil, in the rpom of Francis Gurney, Godfrey
Haga, Henry Pratt, and James Head, whoft
time expires.
\ The freemen of the county of Philadelphia
to eleft
Six reprefentativey for the said county in gel
- aflembly.
The freemen of thecity and county of Phila
delphia to ele<!l
Two persons for (herifF.
One parson for county commiffionei*.
The freeman of the city and county of Phi
ladelphia, and the county of Delaware, to eleft
One senator for the ftite.
The freemen of the county of Blockley and
Kingfefling, are to hold their election at the
State-houle in the city of Philadelphia.
The freemen of the Northern Liberties, are
to hold their ele<Slion at the Town-house, in Se
cond street continued, above Coats's street.
The freemen of the townlhipof Germantown,
Roxborough and Bristol, are to hold their elec
tion at the Union school-house, in Germantown
The freemen of the townlhip of Oxford, By
bery, Lowbr Dublin and Moreland, are to hold
rher ele£lion in thehnufe late John Barnfley'i in
BufTeltown, in the townftip of Lower Dublin.
And the freemen of the diflricl of South
ward, and the township of Moyamenfmg and
Faffyunck, are to hold their eledlicn atthecom
mifiioner's hall, In the difirifl of Soi/thwark t
< forefaid.
The constables of each ward, diftriQ, Sec are
to hold their eletfions in the different diftrifls,
to choose their infpedlors and aflelTors for the
year, and give their attendance at the
time and refpeilive places
JOHN BAKER, Sheriff.
Sent. 2<j. dtß
Peale's imuseum.
THIS valuable repository of the works of Ma
ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the undcrdanding, i« opened daily, as
usual. It (lands in an airy and healthy situation,
and free from the epidemic that at present afflifls
the city ; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the greated fafety.
As an Ainufement, the study of Nature Is the
m«ft rational and pleaCng : as a Science, the mod
iublime and infinitive. It elevates the mind and
expands the heart. They
" Wtem Nature'i zt orh can charm, ■wilt God bimjtlf
" Held converje."
Many interfiling additions have lately been
made to this Mufcum : and the feathered tribe,
containing a variety of the mod rare and beautiful
fubjeids, is now very advantageously arranged
Waxen Figures, of Men large a« life (some of them
carts from nature) are here drefled in their proper
habits, and placed in attitudes characterise of their
refpe&ive nations. Mere may be fee* the North-
American Savage, and the Savage of South-Ameri
ca—a laboring Chinese, and the Chinese Gentle
man—the sooty African, and the Kamtfchadale—
with some Natives of the South Sea I Hands. The
immense variety and interesting diverCty which
t"his Museum offers to the view, may befeenbut
cannot be described with full eff«3.
ffjT Price only i-4th of a dollar.
Seyt. >B. Taw
Bank of North America,
September Bth, 1797.
OV Monday next the Notice. for all Notes er
Bills payable at this Bank,which fall dueontbat
and the ensuing 6 days, will be served on the Pay
ers : And the like Notices on every Monday, till
the further orders of the DireAors.—Perfons wi(b
ing to deposit Notes or..Bills for Colle&ion, which
are to fall due within the week, mud themfslves
undertake to give notice to the Payers. dtf
Insurance Company of the State
of Pennfyivania.
THE Offire will be kept until further notice at
the School House in Germantown. The
Company Hill retain the room in Chefnut, above
Seventh street, where a person will attend to re
ceive and give answers to applications, every day
from 10 until I o'clock.
Sept. 13. d3t2awtf
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt Rhodes, from '
Oporto,
Red Port Wine in pipes, hhds. and quarter cases '
do cwt. Cork, for sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
J"'y " 5
The Health-Office
IS removed to the tity-Hall, and i* kept open
sight and day, where persons having hufinrfi may ,
apply. Wm. ALLEN, Health-Officer.
Sept. 4. I dtf
NOTICE. j
THE Offices of the Department of War are for (
»he present removed near t« the Falls of the Scuyl- j
kill, on the Ridge Road. 1 ,
September 4. dtf ( .
The Inhabitants of the Diftridfc c
v of Southwark, c
ARE informed that a Coachee is provided, to be C
kept at the Constables' office, the north east f
earner of Front and Almond streets, where the
friends of those sick persons who desire to be rs
moved to the City Hospital, arc requested to make
application—Also, a Hearse will be kept in readi-
ness for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE. H
N. B.—rha Poor, who wish to remove to the A
Tents on Schuylkill, may be furnifhad with orders 0
Iry applying as above. A up. 39 R
This Day is Published, s<
BY MefT. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric 9 and the M
other Booksellers, *
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
IJe%ant'yprinted on Wove paper, and Hot
pre/Jed,
By John Thompson, —-
A COMPARATIVE VJEWOF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
*hat of the United States: exhibiting in Tables, yy
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and j
claffingtogether their most important provifionn, J'
under the several heads of administration ; with '
Notes and Observations.
By , WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina, |,y
L L. D. and member of the Congrcfs of the
United States. the
Dedicated to tho People of the United States. uic
N. B. A few Copies printed on ai) inferior pa
yor, at 3-4thsof a do%ir. Jul
February 6 ' tr.wf l
0 j From the Farmer's Wt/ttiy Muscxim.
on ARE M'N A N T,
t j Found in the Jhop of Peter Quince, formerly
<<f wholesale merchant in the CilimAian Cat
af- tine/. i
hi- Something about MONStF.ITR GOLD.
' ,e Peter fheweth the Chriftian—talketh moll
fageljt like his uncle Solomon, about the
Vaniety of Vanities ; —recounteth some
10n few tricks pasTed by a yellow-faced rascal
—(known among Christians by the name
in- of Gold) —upon the men of this world,
•ey He finally fummoneth up all the gravity
of stoicism, and endeth—as becometh a
man with a small purse.
| COME hither Golst, thou little shining wretch,
ge 1 - I -^ nt ' te " '^ e P'cua how you're, treated ;
How many fouls you've handed to Jack Catch,
ila- I And wife philofopKers in pleasure cheated.
1.0 ! at thy name the miser Harts and Dares,
Forgets of pence and farthings hati his cares ;
jjj Rubs down his lanthern jaws.andbiilstllee walk in,
e<n I W '" " ICW man y kindred long unfecn ;
I Some, about whom our great grand daddies have
I been talking—
"d 1 And yet in stature not the leafl grown lean ;
I There little cozens, aunts, and fires lie snug
ire I Untouch'd by gensle zephyr, or the nasty bug,
5e- I But Peter will not that thou mindft his call ;
I Having of pious matter much to metirio*
en, I That is, he means to tell how much dtfTeQtiun
tc- I Thou haft created in this oarthly ball.
!y- He not lead thee back to those cursM times,
ild Wheiyrighteoufnefs crawl'd barefoot o'er vast hills
in I of crimes;
I Nor tell thee of neat manfionsin the wood,
j,. I Where happy nativts us'd to dance and caper,
nd I , Burnil, « away in pleasure life's Ihort taper—
-1- I 'rill thirst for theefprcad wide fell paflion'sbrood;
j Then fwcet Cmplicity and virtue bled,
I And kind creation hung her wecpin? head.
re I****. ,
, s > [Herethe best part of th: poem is nvffingl
hf I • . . . • . . * , . , V •
I Meek Peter scorns thee as the word of ill;
Much dreads thy entrance in his humble cot—
I Had rather bear of penury the lot,
I Than all the jileafures which thy powers inftlll.
j Thou fcattercftpoifop through the feeble mind,
I And thy vfltaries to compassion blind,
a- I
id I rh°u changed friendlkip to a falfe parade , •
as j Playeft the fool with many a feeling heart;
n, I Deeper thou plunged keen afflidtion'i dart,
Is I Then fmilft contemptuous on the wounds fhou'ft
h I made.
I E'en from the palace to cell,
te I works—curs'd Gold—in wretched ruin dwell.
(I I PETER QUINCE.
d I i.
( THE CHEERFUL PARSON.
SINCE bards are all wilhing pray why may not I ? I
I Though but a poor rhymer, for once I will try.
' I The life which I choose would be pleaiant to scarce
one,
I Yet the life which I choose is the life of a parson.
1 I First as me, kind Heaven, a fortune bellow,
r Too high for contempt, and for envy too low,
r I On which I with prudence may hope to fubtili,
I Should I be for my damnmllc dcßrint dilmifs'd.
" In a rich, farming s (hall plead,
I And D —r feel pulfrs, give physic, and bleed,
* Wdere A—t the youths and the children (hall teach,
I There may I be call'd, and there fettled to preach.
J Not damning a man foe a different opinion,
: I'd mi* with the Calvinift, Baptifl, Arminian,
Treat each like a man, like a christian and brother,
I Preach love 'o our Maker, ourselves, and each other.
. I On a snug little farm I'd provide me a feat,
j With buildings all simple, fubflantial, and neat,
I Some (beep and some cattle my paflures to graze,
I And a middlc-pric'd porey to draw my new chaise J
r When I find it no longer good ktinf aloft, .I .
1 May a mild, rural nymph become tout of mi bnt; \
• Not fix'd, like a puppet, on fafhion's ftiff wires, 1
1 But'who can be genteel, when occasion requires;
1 Whofewcalthisnotmoney; whofc beauty's not paiat; ,
1 I Not an infidel romp, nor a fourhearted faint;
S I Whofereligion'snoi heat, and her virtue not coldness,
I Nor her modesty fear, nor her wit manly boldness.
i j Thul fettled, with care I'd apportion my time '
ITo my sermons, ray wife, to my garden and rhyme, 1
I To teach the untaught, and to better the bad,
t ITo lauyh with the merry, and weep with the fad. ]
, j At the feaft, where religion might be a fpe<9ator,
, j Where friendftiip presided, and mirth was a waiter.
_ I I'd fear not to join with the good huntor'd clan,
' ,^ n<l P ,oye t * at * parson may still be a man.
I Thus blest, may my life be (lid smoothly awav,
And I dill grow more grave, as my hair grows 1
more grey;
I With age may the hope of the Christian incfeafe, i
i j And drew life's descent with the blossoms of peace. 1
4nd when we leave this world, as leave it we rtiuft,
I In rapture meet death, and fink into the dud,
! With a tear tn each eye may the parilh all fay, i
«' They were a kind pair, and did goodin their day." j
I ' !
From Marseilles. t
THE cargo I
Of the Swcdifli barque Gudavut Adolphus, from j,
Marseilles, confiding of the following articles, •
is discharging at Mr. Latimer*! wharf, and for 1
I sale by the fubferibera u
I BRANDY, well flavored, of a, 3 & 4th proof P
I Claret, in hog<hcads ' f<
I Ditto, in cafea c
I Frontigniac Wine, in cases of 30 bottles
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in baflceti of 6
and ii bottles
I Capers I
I Olives
I Almonds
J Dry 1
I Writing Pap er I
Umbrellas (Silk) of it, 3c and 3a inches
I Taffeties g
Long and (hort white Kid Gloves for Women ""
I Silk Stockings n<
I Handkerchiefs, in imitation of MaJrafs ri
I Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Ostrich Feathers
I Ribbons
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum 1 ,(
I Manna in forts at
Cream Tartar. [;,
BENfAMIN MORGAN & „t
ROBERT ANDREWS. „
September 17. eotf
Thomas Armat and Son, f
Of PHILADELPHIA, „
INFORM their cudomers aad the public, tbey 5
have removed a part of their, merchandize to t ' l
Wilmington : Also, they have their store open in H
thecity. At ehher place their friends can be sup- au
plied, and their orders carefully attended to. w
By the Cumberland, from Hull, they have re- ■,
ceived a handsome a(T»rtment of at tides, fnitable
to the approaching fcafon ; and expert to add to it mi
by other fall (hips. Ti
Should the fickm fs prevail in the central part of hii
the city, that branch of their bulincfs will be re- m .
uiovcd to Germantown.
The communication hy pod is open and re- P' 1
Jular as usual. an
Sept. 18, ;btf it.
rl y PHILADELPHIA,
nt- SATURDAY EVENING, ~0 .
Extraft of a letter from a refpeftable citizen
oft of Philadelphia, at present residing in
he New-Jersey, to his friend in. this city,
me dated Creek, New-Jersey, Sep
cal tember 28, 1797.
me . ".I am now engaged, w ' l h a few others,
Id. m railing fubferiptions among my neighbors
ity towards the relief of the.sick and diftrefTed in
1 a our city—The fubferiptioti CcVirr.enced last
Monday, and I am happy to acquaint you
that we have met with confidence fuecefs,
upwards of 400 dollars being already raised :
we mean to make our remittance to-morrow
or next day, by which 1 time we hope to in
crease the fubfeription to about 500 dollars.
I have reason to hope that our citizens, in
in, and about Haddenfield, will follow our ex
ample, and contribute more considerably, as
TC that town contains a greater number of in
habitants."
tg, The Episcopal African Church in this
city, received contributions from the follow
ing persons in England, viz.
T(ie Duke of Grafton Three guineas.
Granville Sharp, Esq. do.
Edward Forfter, Esq. do.
Thomas Furley Forfter, Esq. do.
Mrs. Tilby One Gaines.
The Rev. Mr. Dixcm do.
T , Making in (he whole £.14 : 14 fterl.
* i Bache's- opinion ofthe present Despots of France.
From the Aurora of May 18, 179 J.
It will give an idea of the party* which
• now prevails in Paris, to mention, (and that
can be done on the authority of the Paris
" prints) that those citizens who chufe t<s dress
in a plain manner aijd without powder, are
insulted in the ftrects by the Mejfieurs, who
fide with Tallien and Freron. The leaders
of the faftion now uppermost in the Conven
tion*, are remarkable only for thefc pecula
tions and profligacy ; their reign will there
fore not be long. But while contending
faftions, impelled by private motives, thus
ft disgrace the hall of the Convention, by their
scandalous proceedings, the real pilots of
j the state digrft in secret retirement the plans
which, independent of the conduft of in
triguers and political gladiators, will con
duit the Teflel of state to the harbours of
peace and political happiness.
? 1 Every person who has followed the course
of European politics, thro' the French re
e volution, will reoollea the name of the ab
bejSieyes, and fo'mething of his political
sentiments. It will be remembered, that,
against the opinions of Thomas Paine, he
maintained, that an extensive territory could
I be governed bnt by a monarch. This man,
Robespierre saved (with many others) to
make a tool of his talents, but never trusted
hint further than in digesting the details of
i plans of which the outlines and principles
were firft laid down.—This man, the present
,* ruling party have places in the Committee of
■ Public Safety, a situation of primary import
ance. This faft is a ufeful commentaty on
the views and principles of that party.
; | The known enmity between Tallien and
. his party, and Barrere, Billaud and their ad
herents. has induced us to give more im
plicit belief to the account of the execution
! • of the latter, than, upon refle&ion, it de
serves, &c. See.
' ** The authors of tht now existing state of
things in France, and from amongst wham the
t present administrators hare been chosen.
. Mr. Fenno will serve a good cause and oblige
by inferring in his ufeful paper the within
the firft ppportunity.
28th Sept. 1797.
It ought to be remembered, that Congress
1 have passed an aft for each person to pay
Five Shillings for every offence by Cursing, ,
Swearing, or Blasphemous Oaths.
A.good thing can never come amiss, tho' '
it be late ; and it is pleasing to fee the pus- 1
sing, truth-telling, honest orator of New
■ York, called up once more to merited con
tempt. In his long, fulfome, frothy ha
rangue upon the answer to the Prelident's
Speech, the ." faftidious" citizen spoke of 1
his penetration at about seven years of age ! '
in forefeeing the consequences of the French j
union to America. A very forward and ,
promising child ! Nature, as if tickled with
so bright an inflance, seems to have prolong- J
ed his childhood to this time.
From the ALBANr CENT IN EL. <
Mr. Andrews, v
By recording in the Centinel the following c
instances of democratic veracity, you will c
gratify A CUSTOMER. I [
In the debate 011 the reported address to \
the President, during the last feflion of Con- c
grefs, Citizen Edward Livingston, a- a
mong other filly things said, "Oh ! let me e
not pass unnoticed that joy -which Iso -well t
remember to have beamed on every counte- t
nance, upon the inspiring tidings that F, ance 0
had joined her arms to ours, in defence of our J
liberties— No, it njver can be erased from my 0
heart : in the gloomy horrors of desolation n
and an affaflinating wer, I could read by the a
light of those flames which consumed my pater- f,
nal mansion, by thejoy that Jparkled in every 0
eye, how great were the consequences of her x
union to America—l feel the revival of that r |
animating joy kindle this moment in my bo- tl
fom—l will ever cherish it in my heart." f ;
Reader, pause a moment, and then judge of t ]
the veracity of ri/»z«iLivingfton'sftatement. tl
His paternal mansion was consumed in the h
autumn of 1777— Yet he tells us that he so
well remembered to have read, by the light of
ibt flames which consumed it, a treaty not
made till about four months after, at Paris. a .
To crown all, at the moment he delivered 1}
his speech, "he felt the revival of that ani- «
mating joy kindle in his bosom." It is a ««
pity the young orator had npt said that he ««
anticipated all this animating joy j xij-, that fp
■t exiited in his mind's eye,
Those who talk of bluftAng for a man whose
talents, veracity, real love of country,
have never been questioned except by a fafti
««* gaug of pretended patriots,'who, in the
pursuit of promoting themselves to office,
have vilified those eminent characters vvl/ofe
virtues and talents have procured to them
; n the. confidence of the people, should think
ln of blushing for themselves.
7« '
P" Brookes gives the following account of an ex
traordinary ctijlom which prevails in Bor
nou, an extensive inland country on the con
_rs tinent of Africa.
in « Their monarchy is eleftive. On the
death of the sovereign, the privilege of
! u chooiing a lucceffor, from among his sons,
s » without regard to primogeniture, is con
ferred on three of the most diftinguilhed
w men, whose age, and charaftor for wisdom,
»- are denoted by their title of elders. These
s - retire to a sequestered place, the avenues to
in which are carefully guarded ; and, while
their deliberations last, the princes are
as closely confined in separata chambers of the
lm palace. Their choice being made, they
proceed to the apartment "of the foverrign
. eleft, and condiift him, in filente, to the
>» gloomy place, \Vhere the unburied corpse
*• of his father, that cannot be irtterred till
the conclusion of this awful ceremony,
'• awaits his arrival. There the elders expav
tiate to him on the virtues and defefts of
his deceased parent; describing, with pa
negyric or censure, the meaiures that ex
»• alted or funk the glory of his reign. " Yotf
fee before you," fay they, " the end of
'• your mortal career: the eternal, which suc
ceeds it, will 1 be miserable or happy, in pro
"• portion as your reign shall have proved a
curse or a blefiing to your people."
h
t EXTRAORDINARY ENTERPRI7.E.
s Cadwalader Colden, in his hijlory of the
s Five Nations, gives the following remark
e able tnjlance, of savage courage and perfe
-3 verance in pursuit of revenge.
s An Indian, named Pifkaret, one of the
- captains of greatest fame among the Adi
rondacks, with four other captains, set out
for Trois-Rivieres in one canoe, each of
> them being provided with three mufquets,
3 which they loaded with two bullets apiece,
r joined with a small chain ten inches long ;
f they met with five canoes in Sorel River,
5 each having ten men of the Five Nations
on board. Pifkaret and his captains, as
■ soon as those of the - Five Nations drew
! near, pretended tor give themselves up fori
loft, and sung their death song , then fud- j
; denly fired upon the canoes, which they re
peated with the arms that lay ready lpaded,
■ and tore those birch vessels betwixt wind
and water. The men of the Five Nations
i were so surprised, that they tumbled out
• of their canoes, and gave Pifkaret and his
companions the opportunity of knocking*
i as many of them on the head as they pleaf
-1 ed, and saving the others to feed their re
| venge, which they did, by burning them
alive with the most cruel torments. This,
however, was so far from glutting Pifkaret's
revenge, that it seemed rather to give a
keener edge to it; for he soon after under
took another enterprize, in which none of
his countrymen durst accompany him : he
was well acquainted with the country of
the Five Nations, and set out about the i
time the snow began to melt, with the
precaution of putting the hinder part of
his snow shoes forward, that if any should
happen upon his footfteps, they might i
think he was gone the contrary way ; and,
for further security, weot, along- the ridges
and high grounds, where the snow was 1
melted, that bis track might be often loft ; i
when he came near one of the villages of i
the Five Nations, he hid himfelf till nijrht, i
and then entered a cabin, while every body I
was faft asleep. murdered the whole family, i
<jnd carried their scalps into his lurking l
place. The next day the people of the <
village searched for the mtirderer in vain. (
The following night he murdered all he i
found in another cabin. The inhabitants <
next day searched likewise in vain for the ]
murderer ; but the third night a watch was i
kept in every house. Pifkaret in the night c
bundled up the scalps he had taken the two t
former nights, to carry as the proof of his I
viftory, and then stole privately from house t
to house, till at last he found an Indian nod- c
ding, who was upon the watch in one of r
the houses ;he knocked this man the r
head ; but as this alarmed the reft, he was 1
forced immediately to fly. He was, how- 1
ever, under no great concern from the pur- t
suit, being more fwift of foot than any f
Indian then living. He let his pursuers [
come near him from time to time, and then r
would dart from them. This he did with i
design to tire them out with the hopes of c
overtaking him. As it began to grow dark, r
,he hid himfelf, and his pursuers flopped to c
reft- They not being apprehensive of any e
danger from a single man, soon fell asleep, fl
and the bold Pifkaret observing this, knock- a
ed them all on the head, and carried away p
their scalps with the reft. Such stories as v
these are told among the Indians, as extra- r
ordinary instances of the courage an 3 con- 1
dust of ther captains. The Indians will r
often travel thus three or four hundred p
miles singly, or two or three in company, g
and lurk about their enemy's borders for ;
several weeks, in hopes to revenge the death c
of a near relation or dear friend. Indeed t
they give themselves so very much up to f<
revenge, that this pafilon seems to gnaw I<
their fouls, and give* them no reft till, they ri
fatisfy it. It is this delight in revenges fl
that makes all barbarous nations cruel; and f;
the curbing filch pailions is. one of the e.
happy effefts of being civilized- h
h
ENGLISH ANECDOTE. i(
A COUNTRY schoolmaster, who afted tl
as barber to his village, being in dilpute with c:
the parish clerk on a point of grammar, tl
" 'Tis downright barbarism," said the clerk, tl
" Barbarism !" replied the pedagogue ; p
" do you meant tojinfult me ? A barber 'ir
speaks as good English as a pnri'fh clerk, any a
day.'' \ r
e Ttanflated for the (-N. T.) 'Gazette,
t. From a work lately printed at Pari] by
i- c.ois Bonneville,-in two •volumes. Vol l,
,e P a S e 59> fpeulti'S of thofi ly whom the re
volution has been conduced, and whom alcnt
e it has benefitted, he fays :
n " Go, O you who hrlve conspired to
k beggarize the honest man, fettle the impious
calculation of your riches ; go, fee the vic
tims that despair facrifices to yqu every day ;
f- and read on the lank visages of those who'
«- dill revolt at suicide, how much they curse
i- you, how complete is the measure of your
criminality ! You have dipped my foul in
e gall ; it will no more be alive to the impref
if iions of forgivenefs—it will break rather
, than bend ! You have only left the neceflity
- of doing wrong, or the resource of death to
' those who had not the insolent courage to
, speculate like you on the lives ofyour fel
e | low-creatures, for I will not fay yqtir fel
"» low-citizens : Tots have no country J 7~ou
e will never have any ! Tour intfrcfl is your
e God ; arjd provided you have the'leifure to
e drown yourfclves, without shame, without
f bounds, without-delicacy, and without tad*
in the wade and not of fuperfluouß things*
■ at the fame time that you hold in your hands
- without pity articles of the firft neceflity,
1 you never trouhle yourfelvcs with what be
, comes of the universe ; you do not even take
J P™ns palliate your rapine ; 'you make
f a trophy of it, and arfwer to the unfortu
nates who cry and who accuse you, that
- they ar£ fools, for not imitating you."
i "It is then for you that the state has
made war ; it is you who have profitted by
the discredit of her paper, in. paying yortr
- debts with what your unremitted exertions
i have contributed to depreciate ; it is thro'
you that the honest man is about to die, in
being compelled to receive from you the
means of subsistence for a day which mult
r serve him a year."
" Could any thing else be expeded when
the dregs of the nation are uppermost ?
Would he who h;»d known FtliWee formerly,
recognize her to-daj > Would he recoiled,
in the attire of a princess, the miserable ob
jeft who was at the corner of the dreet ; if
her hoarse voice, the thick (kin of her face
and bands, the folly of her discourse, her ig
noble manners and her insolence did not dis
cover her through the rich disguise, with
which (he is covered by speculation ? Would
he know those furious revolutionids, those
valets of every regimen, those felf-ftyled
Spartans, in the gilded equipage which for
merly belonged to their maftera; if they •
had not preserved in their manner of living,
and even in the choice of their *lothes, all
their primitive taste ; if the force of habit
did not sometimes carry them behind tfieir
coaches, after having refpeafully. helped in
the pToftitute, whojhinks so little.of herfclf,
as to feN "them her favors ? 1 have.seen these
diftraftiong ; I fee them still ! I grumbled
at thembecyafe I to keep it to my
felf : my country is covered with mud ; be
cause I hear men, who call themfeives patri
ots and philosophers, cry out that it fignifies
little to government, in .whose- hands for
tunes are placed, provided that.'.they exist,
and that the government can aflefs its taxes.
What then will become ofthe agein which
we live, if robbery can become a source of
public felicity ; if the guarantee nf property
exists only for robbers \ if after having de
molidied as immoral all great fortunes, it is
neceifary for the state to rebuild them in
the hands of thieves, at the expenee of eve
ry thing honest ?"
REMARKS.
Such are some of the blefled <jfFefts of the
total difofganization of civil society, or what
is called a revolution ; by which the industri
ous mechanic and the refpedable farmer are
mod commonly ruined, and the idle, the a
bandoned and profligate, who are always stir
ring up mifchief and trouble, enriched by
the disorder they have created. I view fre
quent revolutions as pregnant with so many
evils and crimes, that those who dire&ly or
indireftly foment them ought to be branded
as the greatest enemies of human happiness..
How often have a few desperate villains,
under the plaulible, specious pretext of ne
cessary moderate reformation, introduced
the moll horrid anarehy, butchery and rob
bery—overturning the mod sacred institu
tions fetting father against child, and
child against father—promoting feuds a
mong frienus, and'dcadly anrirtofities amono*
neighbours > That the revolution in France
has not tended to the good of the people at
large, is glaring to every perfijn who knows
the general misery which prevails in that un
fortunate country. The great body of the
people have only changed mailers—have, in
i eturn foi their former landlords, who were
in general, polite, refined and humane, re
ceived as mailer's a banditti of idle, lawless
ruffians, at once brutal, unpoliihed, and un
civilized. Ihe great estates formerly own
ed by men whom a principle of honor re- '
drained within the bounds of moderation
and benevolence, are now owned by the des
perate unprincipled villains who have per
verted the objed of the revolution, and car*.
ried it to such an unheard of extreme.
Property is gone out of the hands of honed
men, into that of scoundrels ; and the poor
of France, w|lo hardly own a An
gle acre of the foil they cultivate, have by
the glorir.us revolution, only be ome demo,
cratic instead of feudal vaiTals. They have
this additional mortification', that their pre
iep.t brutal, unpolifljeJ and *nprincipled
lords are deftitutt of that mild douceur, that
refinement of manners, which makes even
slavery itfelf supportable. It is a notorious
fad, that the greater part of those immense
estates which were ccnfifcattd in France,
have'througli iniquitous laws, got into the
hands of the most furious of the revolution
ids, who have paid little or nothing for
them, by means of a paper-currency depre
ciated to almost nothing. lam convinced
thattlie war owes long continuance to
the rears of the n...rs of France and their
partisans, of being dripped of their iic
menfe and i!l-gottc» polTeilions, which they
are fe ß fible will be taken from them on the
•vyitofa general peace, and whith they; ilerermtned to enjoy as loijg as they can.
* They know that a fwte of tranquillity wquld
not juftify-any undue and arbitrary ms afttrcs
to overawe and prevent a free eledtion of re
presentatives—the); are feniible of the inju
ries the people have fnftaiaed by men ailing
iiithename'of liberty—they feel justly ap
prehthfive of national resentment—When
peace takes pk<s,e let them trouble ! Yes,
I hope, and am certain, that when the feel
ings of the French people are reprefenyd by
an unbiassed ele&Ioo, to which as yet they 1
are flrangers, that national vengeance will
hitvlthe present bloody usurpers from their
feats of power, and drip them agd their par
tisans of HI their revolutionary plunder—
What good man but raufl wish, with anxious
solicitude, the speedy confummution of so
j aft, so fortunate an event ? But while we
indulge the sacred hope of feeing the revo
lutionary robbers stripped of their immense
possessions, we should suppress the wish of
feeing the former great land-holders reinstat
ed in the whole of the property they for
merly owned :—we ought to confine our
hopes of restitution to those only, who pos
sessors of a moderate property and friends to
regulated liberty, were driven from their
country by the tyrants of the revolution,
who, had they remained in France, woul<f
have loft their lives. What a flab will
the hellish views of revolutionifli throughout
the world receive, from the changes wh jch.
peace tvill bring about in France ?—Wfiat
a mortification to fee the apoflles of hbirty
and equality lose all their revolutionary spoils;
to fee all their overgrown, ill-gotten proper
ty torn from them ? What a dreadful ex
ample will it not afford to
out the universe, and particularly, those of
America I What a death flroke to the hopes
of our anarchills and diforganizers,' to fee
the French heroes of infurredlion and subor
dination so cruelly treated, as to have torh
from them the only reward of all their toils,
dangers and guilt ?
13y this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, September 30.
On Wednesday the 20th iiift. came on to
trial, before the hon. Judge Cufhingy in the
Circuit Court of thp United States for the
• diljriil of Coine&icut, the cause of Samuel
Fowler, and others, against Maiy Lyndfay
and others, in which the Plaintiffs claim, un
der a grant from the state of Connefricut,
a part of the traft of land called Connecti
cut Gore. The defendants holding under a
title derived from the state of New-York,
appeared and pleaded to the jurifdiftion of
the Court, that the landderaanded was with*
in the diftrift of New-York, and not with
in the diflri£t of Connecticut, on which an
t issue was joined, and a jury summoned to try
the issue.
The defendants then challenged the array
of the jurors, and for causes of challenge al
ledged, I. That the pannel was arrayed by
the Marshal of the diflrift of Connedlicut,
who was a, freeman and inhabitant of said
state. 2. That the deputy Marshal by
whom the Marshal summoned and arrayed
the jurors wa3 interefled as a purchaser and
claimant ih said Gore. To which challenge
the plaintiffs demurred, and the defendants
joined in demurrer.
The question was very ably and learnedly
argued by Mess. Parsons and Sullivan on
die part of the Plaintiffs ; and by MefTrs.
Hoffman and Hamilton on the part of the
defendants. After the arguments the court
gave tlveir opinion that the firfl cause of chal
lenge allcdged was inefficient, but that the
second reason assigned was fufficient, and on
that ground quashed the array. -
A m6tion was then made by the Plain
tiffs to have another jury immediately sum
moned ; but the term being so nearly expi
red,- as not to leave fufficient time for the
trial of the cause, thecourt overruled the mo
tion ; and the cause of course was continued
to the next term to be holden at New-Ha
ven in April next.
BOSTON, September 26.
This day general Hull's division of mi
litia will be reviewed at Concord. It is
supposed there will be about 7000 men un- I
der arms, including several trsops of cavalry. J
His excellency the governor left his feat at |
Roxbury, this morning, for the field of re- j
view, under escort of two companies of 1
horse. To-morrow he will return, escorted
by four troops of cavalry. Many of the
refpcftable inhabitants of this town, will
be present at the review.
[These troops are all in complete uniform
—blue broad-cloath, with various facings.
Attached to this division is a body of dra
goons, consisting of 500 men also in com
plete uniform.]
On Friday hft, another effort was made
to launch the frigate Conflitution. At the
instant the shores were removed she started,
.and glided to the water with a regular rapi
dity, which promised a handfomc comple
tion of the wishes of a very numerous collec
tion of the inhabitants of Boston and its vi
cinity; but after moving about 30 fe-t, she
suddenly flopped. As she was just then en
tering on the temporary wharf, erefted to
support the ways, ij was conceived unfafe
to make further attempts to get her off, till
there was the most perfect assurance of her
finifhing her launch ; as it wjs dreaded her
weight, resting on the wars, might occasi
on it to fettle, and the consequences be very
serious. What was the real impediment to
her launching on this latter day, wc are un
able to determine/ It is ascribed to several
causes. The fettling cf the ground—the
tightness of the bligeways, &c. But too
much pjaife cannot be bellowed on the inge
nious Conftruftor, whose prudence and fidel
ity so evidently triumphed over his ambition
and resolution. Vic hear, the workmen will
as usual, be employed upon the frigate, and
that the launching is deferred till about the
19th of October.
C'apt. Pilhbury who arrived ycfierday
from Guadeloupe, informs us, \tf ut Ji agues
treats Awritanj who tomt (/.'re td trai'e in a
ist/y puttie rfinntfr ; and Is punctual to his con
trafls with than.
Cup'. Killings of N. Lvttrhn, front Turks'
l/Iq!fd, was attacked by a Frtnch privateer,
ivhich be beat off with laHaji Jloties. She fol
lowed capt. B. into St. '■Thomas % when the pri
vateer chpt. was arrejled.
■A letter from P. de Paix Aug. 21, fays,
Sonthonax, failed yejlerday for France, in an
In din mat.
Letters from Trinidad to An*, mention, that
a mutiny hud happened'ttt that IJland on board
the Didator, Errglifh man of war. The fai
j lors drone the officers below and kept them con
\ fined for several days, inftjling on treating
I solely with the capt.for an advance of pay, and
] a redress of sundry Jlated grievances. These
demands being acceded to, they released the offi
cers, and returned to their duty.
A SINGVLAK F4CT.
1 At 12 o'clock on Friday, xpigs efcapedfrom
the Snow Sally, at anchor off Long-Wars;
At 12 o'clock on Saturday, thefams pigs'were
observed swimming towards the vessel, and
taken up. These pigs had been on board the
« vessel but one day previous to their emigration,
and wen raised //i.Chareftown.
BALTIMORE, September 27.
BOARD of HEALTH.
BURIALS
l In the weft part of Baltimore, heretofore
( called the town—for the last twenty-four
hours, ending tliis morning at sunrise.
6 Adults 3 Children
Burials in the east part, called Fell's Point,
&c. including the Potter's Field.
6 Adults o Children
(Signed)
Joseph TowNsfcND, clerk.
September 27.
fiY AUTHORITY.
By his excellency John Hoskins Stone,
governor of the state of Maryland.
A PROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS it hath been represented to
me by the mayor of Baltimore, and other
refpeftable citizens, that a numberof robber
ries and attempts to rob on the high rOads,
leading to that city, and in one instance a
murder and robbery had been committed—
To prevent such enormities, and to bring
perpetrators thereof to punishment, I do
hereby offer a rewards of FIVE HUN
DRED DOLLARS to any person who
shall discover and make known the perpetra
tor or perpetrators of the aforefaid criwes
and offneces,fo that he or they be convifted
thereof in any court of law of this state:
And I do further offer and promise full and
free pardon to any person being an accom--
plice therein, who shall discover and"make
known the person or persons by whom the
said crimes and offences were committed, so
that he or they be convi&ed thereof, in any
court of law of this state.
Given under my hand and the seal of
the state of Maryland, at the city of
Annapolis, this twenty-second day
of September, in the year of our
Lord seventeen hundred and ninety
feven. J. H. STONE.
NORFOLK, September 23.
9F SANTHONAX.
The following interesting particulars of the
proceedings at Cape Francois, refpedling
Santhonax, from the 16th to the 29th of
August, we received by a gentleman pas
senger in the brig Democrat, arrived on
Thursday.
On the 16th of August general Touffaint,
with part of his cavalry, arrived at the Cape
from Gonaives ; on the 17th, the regular
troops and militia were summoned by beat
of drum through all the ttreets to a general
review the next morning. At this review,
general Touffaint harangu ed the troops, ex
horted them to support the laws of France,
and never to deviate from the true principles
of republicans. After the review was over,
general Touffaint arrested the aid-du-campf
of Santhonax, and sent him on board a ves
sel in the harbor. On the fame evening the
gerieral fujrimoned all the commanders and
generals of the Cape and the neighboring
diftrifts, before him, and presented a paper
for them to sign, the purport of which was
the crimination of Santhonax, and to fliew
the necessity of his bting sent to France :
this paper they all refufed iigning, except
the commandant Chriftophe, who declared
that he would sign it, conscious he would
serve his country, and probably save the ef
fufion of much blood. On the morning of
the 20th, general Touffaint waited on San
thonax, and told hire that he mull positive
ly embark on board the ship Indian for
France, and answer for his conduft during
his administration ; that he would give him
to the 25th to arrange his affairs, but that
he must on that morning be out of the har
bour of the Cape, or his head should an
swer for it : an order was in consequence
given to get the above ship ready for sea,
and two seamen from each of the American
veffelr m the harbour were put on board to
assist in rigging her.
General Touffaint then went out to Petit-
Ance with his cavalry, part of which he en
camped there, and stationed the remainder
of them on the Heights of the Cape, to cut
off all communication between the town and
country, and the Cape was embargoed both
by land and water.
On the morning of the 25th, the ship
failed with the commissary Santhonax, ac
companied by a confidential Spanish officer,
\vith whom was entrusted general Touffaint's
dispatches : the ship was to touch at Port
au-Paix, to procure more seamen; but when
they came off the island of Tortuga, com
missary Santhonax called the Spani/h officer
to him, told him he was not ignorant of his
being charged with Touffaint's dispatches,
and opening a chest containing 10,000 joes
in gold, offered him what part of them he
pleafed, provided he would let him fee the
contents of them ; this the officer refufed,
declaring at the time that nothing should
prompt him to break the trull put in him.
Santhonax then told hi in he was as much
corn miliary on b«ard the (hip as he was it
<
- the Cape -he ordered the officsft trunks to
be hr.&fe offifgyfewd- «lx diipstclits,, sead
' thcin, and afterward ■• lore them up, and put
, the Spaniard ashore on the island of Tortuga
- without any clothes except what he had on,
- | from whence he got to the Cape.
| On the 28th there was another gtnenj re
, view of the. troops arid militia, at which
1 general Touffaint addr;ffed. them* telling
[them that the reason for his fhippiog off the
t 'ComtniHary was, that he had laid
i- a plan to detach thcgovemmfrit of the island
. from France, and not to acknowledge her
. 'any longer; that, he was. to be the chief
r 1 ruler of the island ; that he had iffijed out
I wine and money to gain the present leading
men of the Cape on his fide, so as to be able
. cffe&ually to put his bafff proje&s ill fcrce.
The general also said that helcnewthe.names
of all that-were concerned, would point them
1 out, aodthat .he would 4v> every thing in his
: power for the good of his country. The
■ fame day general Laveller, colonel Roderic,
I and another commandant were arretted, and
t were to be tried; in a few days.
, It is fupppfed that general Touflaint has,
by his spirited co;idu£t and the discovery of
Santhonax's plot, saved all the white inha
bitants on the island from being massacred.
The general.has also allured them that in a
few days he would lay the whole of Santho
: nax's plan before v them. Conjpftures were
• various as to the rout whiph Sanihonax had
taken ; but it was mostly expe&ed he would
i go to some' Spanish fettlpment.
, —.
CHARLESTON, Sept. x S .
Gold Ncuu far cur Mfr chants.
We learn, that thp Collector has iflued orders
f<ir the romyl-at arming and manning of the
revenue cutter of this part, and for her keeping
at sea for the prote<f>ion of the-trade of this
pert
Mr. llatnilson, the Riitifb eonful at Norfolk,
h.is ordered two (loops of war from that Ra
tion, to change their cruizing ground, and to
cruize the months of Sep:ember and Oitober,'
hetweep'lit. 34, and jo.
A variety of report. were yesterday in circu
lation relative to the capture of the Grouper ;
it wa» too good news .to he true j. in tracing
the reports, wl- found th« to be the
mnft correifti
Cap'. Allboy, of the Harlequin, from Ber
muda. ) days ago, lit, 29, 43, fpoke.tha priva
teer fchr. Dunmore, of New-Providence, moun
ting ia fix pounders, and 8j men, on a cruize
(>S da' Soot from Naflau. The captain of the
Du«m"B>e fiki that he Fame purposely to meet
with and take the French-privateer Le Grouper.
It will he glorious spurt for two pirates to en
gage each other.
SAVANNAH, Bept. n.
Arrived fchr. Peggy, capt. Duncan, 11 days
from Philadelphia. Came passengers, Abra
ham Baldwin, Esq. member of congress for
this Rate, and Mr.Jafen Hopkins, merchant,
of Philadelphia.
NOTICE.
THE Pilots are ordered to bring no vef
• fels arriving from PHILADELPHIA, higher
up than Cockfpur.nor q»it any they board, un
til r Health Certificate he granted.
M. BURKE, Heeltb-Officer.
Xfte (gazette,
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, September 30.
Total of lurials for 24 hours, ending yester
day at noon.
Secrnd Prdbyterian I O
Third Presbyterian o ' j
Scots Prefbyti rian » o
St. Mary's Church 3 I
Free Qusksrs* o 1
German Lutherean 1 . o
German Reformed o I
Methodist* I O
Potter's Fraid o I
Citjr Hofpttal* 7 o
KenQng'.cnf , I I
'5 6
* Four of theft from tbt city.
It is plcafing to fee science and federalifm
every where progrefiing hand in hand.
Disorganization has ever found few abet
tors amongst men of learning. Shew me
an ene*y to the'laws and the constitution,
and I will immediately Ihew you a fool or a
villain.
Princeton, September 27it, 1797. —Thil
diy being the anniversary of the commence
ment in the college of New Jersey, the
board of trustees, and the faculty of the
college, met the senior class at 10 o'clock
in the forenoon, in the publip hall, from
whence they went in proceflion to the
church.
The business of the day was introduced
with prayer by the president. Then fol
lowed the exercises of the young gentlemen
who were candidates for degrees.
1.. A Latin salutatory oration, on the
connexion between piety, virtue and sci
ence, by Charles Fenton Mercer, of Vir
ginia.
2. An English salutatory oration, on
the caufesof the negleft of the Greek and
Latin languages, by Peter Le Conte, of
New Jersey. '
3. An oration on the origin and improve
ment of language, by Frederick Beafley,
of North Carolina.
4. A debate on the following question :
Is it probable, from the prefeut slate of
society, that modern eloquence will rival
the ancient ?—Richard Ruilv of Pennsyl
vania, respondent—Alexander S. Kerr, of
Pennsylvania, opponent —George Troup,
of Georgia, replicator.
5. An oration on the excesses .of the
French revolution, by Henry W. Edwards,
of Connecticut.
6. An oration on the mythology of
Greece, by Abraham Harrifcin, of New
Jersey.
7. A debate on the following question :
Whether any, and which branch of the
federal government is likely to become su
perior to the others ■—Dennis D. Reed,
of Pennsylvania, refpondent—Mathew La
Rue Perine, of New Jersey, opponent—
Aaron Loe, of New Jrtfey, replicator.
1 | 8. An oration nn the American revolu
tion and the means, of its benefits,
by John Howfon Peyton, of Virginia.
! 9- An oration on happiness, by John
( Vancleve, of New Jersey.
I 10. An oration on duelling, by Jacob
S. Otto, of New Jerfty.
11. A debate on the following question :
Is it probable that the federal government
will be permanent ?—William Frazer, of
Delaware, respondent—Robert Jackson, of
Maryland, opponent—Charles Fenton Mer
cer, of Virginia, replicator.
12. An oration 011 the necessity of the
United States' establishing a navy, by John
Stoopsj of Maryland.
j 13. An oration on the danger of foreign
influence, by Lewis Hafbrouck, of Mew
' York.
: 14. An oration on the mathematics, by
■ Thomas Bayly, of Maryland.
I The degree of , Bachelor of Arts was
, then conferred on the young gentlemen a
bnve mentioned, and on William Agnew,
Martin Agnew, Richard Beatty, Daniel
Crane, Edmund Morford, and Stephen
( 1 hompfon, of New Jersey ; Thomas Ed
gai» Hughes, and John Watson, of Penn
sylvania ; John Strawbridge, of Delaware ;
Guftavus Brown Wallace, of Virginia ;
James Clark, of North Carolina ; and Lau
' rence L. Raven, of the island of Curacoa ;
members of the fame class.
Messrs. Robert Field, James G. Force,
Robert Hunt, Titus Hutchifon, Henry
Kellock, Jolin Nelson, James T. Stelle,
Lucius Horatio Stockton, Isaac Van Dorn,
John Wallace, and Henry Wykoff, alumni
of the college, wtfre admitted to their de
gree of Master of Arts.
The degree of Master of Arts was con
ferred on the Rev. John Croes, Reftor of
the Eplfcopal church at Sweedlboroiagh,
New-Jersey.
Samuel Andrew Law, A- M. in Yale
College, and Samuel Harrifon Smith, A-
M. of the university of Pennsylvania, were
admitted, ad eundem in this collegA
The valedictory oration on Emulation,
was then pronounced by James CJark, of
North-Carolina, and the exercises of the day
concluded with a prayer by the President.
For the Gazette of the United States.
MR. FENNO,
I have observed, with the utmost regret,
in several late papers, a great number of pa-'
ragraphs, which were evidently intended to
injure a medical character of the higheflt esti
mation, both in Europe and America.
In desiring you to inferc the following re
marks on these paragraphs, I rely on that
candor and impartiality, which, at leal}; in re
gard to fcientific subjects, oyght to charac
terize every.public print.
The torrents of abuse which have so a
bundantly been poured'on Dr. Rulh, seem
to have arisen from a desire of wounding his
feelings as an individual ; of injuring hia re
putation as a physician ; and of preventing
•the general introduction of his mode of prae
tice. J}ut the enemies of Dr. Rush may be
assured that their vile and illiberal scandal
cannot disturb the tranquillity of his exalted
mind. In the present instance the tongue
of malice will as ineffedtually ftied its venom,
as it did at the time when our late illustrious
president retired from the chair of govern
ment.
"JThe objeft of the labours of Dr. Rush is
the improvement of the science of medicine.
Ht finds an ample reward in the approba
tion of his own conscience ; his endeavours
havt been crowned with success, and he has
added largely to the stock of human hap
piness.
With a view, probably to injure the re
putation of the-Dr. as a medical pra&ition-*
er, he-has been emphatically stigmatized by
the name of a' quack. With equal proprie
ty might we denominate Newton an illite
rate pretender to philosophy, or Homer a
poetaster.
Those feeble attacks which have been
made oft our American Hippocrates, can have
but little effect in blading or injuring his
fame ; like the fhort-ljved ephemero", they
are limited to the existence of a Jingle day.
The" principles 'of medicine which are
taught and promulgated by Dr. Rufli, have
been afftrted-by one of your paragraphifts,
to be 1* contrary to reaCoji. aud experience."
I take the liberty, however, boldly to de
clare, that they will* eventually triumph o
ver all op'pofition, merely because they are
molt ftridly iupported by reason and by ex
perience. It isliot a; new thing, that men,,
who by their exertions have promoted in an
eminent degree, the cause of science and hu
manity, are rewarded with detraftion and
ingratitude—This is not the lirff time that
" truth has been Dr. Har
vey's immortal discovery of the circulation
of the blood, was long a-matter of dispute
and calumrry—He wasabufed and perfect
ed 5 but the names of his perfeeutors, like
the animals which have paid the price 6f his
discoveries, are consigned to eternal oblivion.
It may be necessary to add, that in spite
of all opposition, the mode of practice pur
sued by Dr. Rush is advocated by the most'
refpedtablephyficians of Philadelphia ; and,
from an appeal to reason and experience,
every liberal and unprejudiced mind will be
convinced, that it is the most fuccefsful
method of treating the yellow fever.
/ H.
• ' 1
Cjf The business of the CUSTOM-HOUSQ,
'will from this day be tranfaSed at Chester
for feme time.
Sept. 30.
Philadelphia County meeting.
The Citizens cf the county of Phi/ade 'p'hia
are reqiiefled to meet on Thursday the sth of
OSober next, at 2 o'clock in the afternoon, at
the To ten House in '.he- Northern Liberties, to
consult' on proper perfotts to represent them in
the next General AJfemlly.
Sfpletnber. gc.. , '.
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
From 29th to 30th .Sept. in the morning*
Admitted, iince "last report,
James Moore—l9B, South 2d ftreet-.
Herman Schas—Rivera, baiter, Catherine ft.
John Co^kly—do. do.
Hugh Dougherty—Corner Walnut and
Front street.
Unity Dougherty, . do. do.
Margaret Patteriun—Northern Liberties,
found in the street..
Thomas Morrifor— Davis's Alley, Christian
street.
Elilni Brady—l96, North Watar street.
Lucy Pearles—Peter Cloves, between sth
and 6th street, opposite Pine street.
Margaret Vantiville—Gafkill ftr. next door
to Lamp.
John Rowe—l7B, South Water street.
Lcdy Carney—ls3, Spruce street. ,
Hannah Pringle—corner 6th and Lamb ftrt.
Discharged, since last report,
Samuel Freeman, admitted 26th ult.
Tfrael Canfield, ift
Esther Rice, i^tl,
Mary Shaw, ,
Charles Mitchell, aoth
Nicholas Johnson, 22d
Ann Townfetid, 27th
Died since last repfcrt.
when admitted howJongiick pre
vious to admimon.
Guy Blakely, 25th 3 days.
Tabitha Walton, 25th 1 day.
Rebecca Hubbard,2Bth 3 days.
Modeftierre (French
' man) 28th 8 days.
Remaining last Report 60
Admitted since, 1 3
Discharged >7
Died 4 „
Remain inHofpita], vakfcents^ | fi2
Nine of whom are dangerous. -
Interred in City Hospital burying ground
since last report :
From the city and suburbs 4
From the city hospital 4
Total 8
Stephen Girard,
(Signed) Caleb Lownes,
John Connelly.
Published by order of the Board,
Wm. MONTGOMERY,
Chairman, pro tem.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
New-York, September 30.
arrived. Dayi
Schr. Frederick, .Thomas, N. Carolina 22
CLEARED.
Ship-James, Brown, Hamburg & Eaft-Indi*
*
Norfolk, September 23.
ENTERED.
Brig Democrat, Latham, C. Francois
Fanny, Newell, Jamaica
Lydia, Miles, Liverpool
Sch'r Minerva, Scovell, Bermuda
Peggy, Cowper, Cape Francois
Saucy Jack, Boggefs, do.
Sloop Weftmoreland, Thomas, J?jnaica.
CLEARED.
Ship Richmond, Simpfon, Dublin
Brig Joseph, Leffingwell, Curracoa
Sch'r Caroline, Ntwell, Bourdeaux
Sloop Bsrmuda Packet, Swan, P. au Prince
Lift of American vefTels at Cape Francois,
011 the 29th August, received by the brig
Democrat :
Sch'r Rebecca, Rogers, 1 r -n n
Triton, L, jofßofton.
Eagle, Dalton, of fvewburyport.
Sloop Hawk, Lanksford, of Prov. R. I.
Brig Hunter, Parker, of New-York.
Jane Vanfife,
Snow Cleopatra, Christie,
Sch'r Eagle, Wells, of Philadelphia
Bo (ton, Clarke,
Molly, Edwards,
Snow , Thompson, "1
Sch'r Regulator, Weeks, J- of Baltimore
Three Sifters, Martin, J
Brig Bill, Gorham, 1 c .
Sch'r Polly, Norton, j of Ws(h ' n gton.
■Brig Thetis, Sprigs, 1 Char-
Sch'r Hudson Packet, Richardson, j lefton,
Sch'r Speedwell, Stariwood, of Newbury
port, is at Monte Chrifti/.
Lift of Americans taken .and carried into
different parts of Hifpaniola :
At Port-au-Paix,
Brig Rambler, Odlin, of Philadelphia, cap
tured August 18.
Schooner Alciope, Rice, of do. do. 15th do.
Ship Goddess of Plenty, Churnfide, do. do.
At Cape Francois.
Schooner Nancy, Handlin, of Frederickf
burgh captured the 10th August.
At St- Jago de Cuba.
Schooner Bctfy and Patfey, Durker, of
Baltiriiore, taken 27th July.
At Monte Chrijlie.
Ship Goddess of Plenty, , of Philadel
phia, taken Aug. 9.
Brig Tully, Stapleton, of Wsfhington.
Schooner Fair Amsriean, Rogers, of Bal
timore.
Thursday arrived the brig Lydia, eapt.
Miles, 8 Weeks frCm Liverpool.
On the 28th July, off the Mull of Ken
tie, fpojie the brig Abigail, Babqock, 30
days from Philadelphia to Belfaft.
Sept. 15; lat. 37, 40. long. 74, spoke
the fch'r Federal, Long, out 36 days from
Jamaica to New York; supplied the Lydia
with neffaries.
POST-OFFICE.
Philadelphia, Sep,'. 29, 179 7.
LETTERS for the British Packet,Jx/r
Falbicuth, will be received at this Office,
until TuefJay, the third of QZiober, at
twelve 0 clock, noon. The inlandpflage to
New-Turk rr.ujl be paid. dtsd.Imported inthelhip Manchester j
.Bemjamin Shewell, Master,
From Bouriitaiix, and for sale by the fubferiber,
No. 11 Walnlit Stitet.
Bonrdeaux Brandy •
Irilh market claret in-eafes Entitled to
Mtdog wine, in do. Drawback.
Si'.uterne, do; do.
Thomas Murgatroyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter cades
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4c 00 bulhels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. twt&stf.
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 15th
day o( Otflober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
About seven thousand acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifter's-tovvn and Westminster,
commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road runs through a conlidarable part of
tlieft land?) the traift begin., about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a f«cv hundred yards
of laid Keiiter's-town, and extends to the dis
tance of about twenty-three milt 9 from Balti
more, and lies on the main falls cf Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will !
b/ fold in trafls or one hundred and fifty to
three luindied acre. There is a large propor
tion of mcaclA'A - and wood land on each trait,
i irjie of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine gr. fs.
Atso
• A tra£l of feveri hundred acres of
land, calied Clover Farms, within five miles of
Bladenfhurg, esteemed very good, for Grass.
.Richard Ponfonby,of Blidenfburgh, will ihew \
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
also,
A tra£l of of about three hun-1
dred and thirty awes, within about two miles ;
and a half o: the President's house in the Fede- f
taVCity. It js nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpefl, from which may be fcen the
city of \Vifhir.gtcn, Bladenfburgh, AlexaflHria
and a part of George-town, and m.iny miles
down the Potemac river. Mr. Richard Por.fon
by, of Blader.lburg, will also fhrw this land.
A liberal credit-will be given for the greatest
part of the purchase money, she terms will
be made known on the tUy cf sale.
May 8 wjm
Just K eceived, /
From Batavia (via Providence)
a few Boxes of Spices, consisting of 1
Nutmegs, Clovcsand Mace
For sale by
HILLINGS to" FRANCIS,
Penn street.
May 3Q dtf
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS/
BEING busied for some time past in prepara
tions for removing into his present house, has
been under theneceffityof poftponinguntil this day
informing the gentlemen ofthe Bar generjjly thro'
the United States, that hisipring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for file, 011
terms that he trusts will entitle him to the like pre
frtence he has experienced for Ifeveral years past.
Catalogues, combining tha most varied collec
tion ever imported i<ito this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
June a?. 2aw 6w
City CommiJJioners' Office,
Jtini*22, 1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the feleit
and common councils, pafled the 2id day of
May last, appointing the city eaoimiflioners,
and p'refcribing their duties, fetSion 9th,
NOTICE I§ HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diftrifU,
«aeh to be under the fuperintendance of one of
the city commifiioners, whois to he indTvidually
relponfible for tbe cleanliness of the fame, and
.are as follow.
Driftriil No. I. From the fonth fide of Ce-
to the north fide of Spruce-street, un
de fuperintendence of Nattftn Boys.
a. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
the north fide of Walnut-flreet, under the super
intendence of Hugh Roberta.
3. From the north fide of Walnut to thefouth
fide o{ ffigh-ftreet, under the superintendence ot
Joseph Claypoole.
4. F»i>m the north fide of High-ftreeV to the
north fido of Mulberry street, under the Super
intendence of William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberry-street to
■ the north fide of Vine-street, under the super
intendence «f NNholas Hicks.
The cleaningof High-ftrect to be in common.
£3* A Hated meeting of tht city eommiflion
era is held at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuel'd.»y evening at j o'clock.
July 14. eoim
Stands for Draymen,
In fvrjuanee of an Ordinance from thcSelefl and
Common Council bearing date the tid day of
April, 1797. providing for tbe appointmeM of'
City CommiJJioners, l3c- Sea. the isth.
''r'HE following places are fixed upon by the
A said City Commiflionera for Stands for
Draymen and their Horfea.
In Vine-street, eastward of Front-flreet, on
both fides.
Saffafras, High.Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eastward ot Front-street, on tbe no.-th fide only.
Mulberry-ftrect, fotith fide from Front to
Third-street.
Front-ftreat, east fide from ett to
Jlfrith's alley-
Front-street, from opposite to Blatk Horse al
lev to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Water-street, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Moore's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce-Jat>ftreet, weft
fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, ea.'t of Front-flreet.
Spruie, Pine and South streets, eill of Front
street, south iide.
Dock-street, between Walnut-ftreet«and the
flag ltone crofiiiigs, east fide, opposite George
Orkl«v's.
Second-Oreet, between SalTifras and Vine
streets, weft fide-
Fifili-ftreet, east fioe from Chefnut to Mul
berry streets.
Safiafras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-street,
#aft fide.
No dray or horse to stand within ten feet of
anvP um P*
STANDS FOR HACKNEY COACHES.
Pine-street, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
streets.
Fifth-flrcet, betwc i Chefnut and Walnut
streets, weft.
Branch-street, north fide,between Third and
Fourth streets.
July 14. mjv&ffm
A Litci'ary Treat.
J lift ■published, handfoviely printed on writing
pcipct ,_price l, dollar K
\ new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, untitled
rI!E FORESTERS, an Am.-rica*Tale being
a fequcl to the liillory of John Bull, the Clo
thier—ln aferiesof li tters to ajriend,<witli the ad
dition of t\\ o letters, alluding to recent poUticai
< raiife&ioiu in America. •
Th# following extradl from the Clnvrs All«gorica,
ihews the principal characters that arc introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of £ngiand
liii Mother, the Church of England
His Wife, the
HisSifler Peg, the C hurch of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis, the K ngdom of France
H,is Mift'efe, the Old Constitution
His Ht-w Wife,» the National Rcprefentatioir
Lord Struts the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frew, Republic
The Franks, the French Republic
The the United StatesoF America
Robert Lumber, New-Hamplhire
John Codline, Massachusetts
Humphrey Plowfliare, Conne&icnt
Roger Carrier, Rhode I Hand
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
Julius Caesar, New-Jersey <
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania •
Caflimar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
Hii Grandson, George Wafliington
Peter Pitch, N<*rth Carolina
Charles' Indigo, South Carolina
George Trufly, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves
I&ts, Speculators
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacpbins
.JjT This popular and entertaimngfatirical hiflo
ry of Amarica is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel
knap, It hasagrtat (hare of originality and a
bownds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and chwa&erifes thole
late political tranfa&ions which have caused so
much uneasiness in America.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
South Second Street, and No. 50, Marke* ftject.
June 26. §
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Bookfel^rs,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by tht Hte arrivals from
London and Dublin, their fpringlmporta
tion, confiding of a variety of the latest and most
approved' Law Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the most extensive collection ev
er offered for fa!e in this country. They thei efore
beg leave to noticx, that from the nature of their
connexions in Dublin, they are enabled to fell Irilh
.editions (a» they have hitherto at the very
Toweft prices. The following are among the latelt
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, a >•.!».
Peake's Cases at Niti Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lor j Hardwicka ; Floyer's Procters
Pradice in the Ecclefuftical Courts ; Barton's
Treatifc on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Practice of
the Bourt of King's Bench in Personal Actions, a
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruifc
o« Uses ; modern Reports, II vols. London edi
tion.
H. »nd P. Rich expetft t# receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durcfijrd and East's Reports, the id part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number 'of
new publications.
June 16.
The History of Pennsylvania,
Bv ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and will he published,
with all convenient expedition, by ZfcCHA
ruh Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chel'nut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposals, until the
work is ready for the fubfcribcrs.
July 18. lawtf
Printed Calicoes.
i *
JOHNMILLER, Jim. & Co.
No. t Ghefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly affortcd, very low on
Ihort credit. 4
March 6. . §
Richard and James Pottfr
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftrcet.
rtuguft 1. w&f6t
Lancaster, _ Harrijburgh Carli/le,
Shtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requcfted to take notice, that
the partnerlhip which has f«t some time sub
sisted betwesn Mathias Slough of LancaQer, and
William Geer, is now dissolved . but, not as M.
Slough infiniiatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter en the fub
jedl from M. Slough to W. Gecr, dated the a9tii
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed itcceffary. Auy gentleman who wishes to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
this bufiriefs, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal «f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfedly juftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Nov/ from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleaftd to confer on the firft effort in
this bufiuefs, V* illiain Geer, in conjunAion with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the palTage fafe and commodious, inform
those wnu wjlb to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, tha{ they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proved to Lantafter, Harriiburg,
Carlisle and Shippenlburg. Th 4 fare as hitherto'
eftabliOied.
For the further accommodation oi the public,
a Stage will start every Wednefdßy from the house
of Sanud Elder, in Harrilburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thuriday,
and return from thcoce and arriveiat Hairifourg
every Saturday, so that paflengers dellined for
Lancafteror Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon-
WILLIAM GEER.
Laricatler. Jan. 17, 1797.
N. B This Line of Stages starts from tlirf
house of William Ferr»c, in Lancafttr, on every
Tuelday aijd%aturday morning at 6 o'clock, .pro-
weftward; and Irom the house of
)«r. Samuel Eldi i in Harnfburg every Wednef
dav morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippcnfturg, and returns
from thence on every Tharfday : performing tbe
fame rontins daily ai id its tear from. Philadel
phia. ' „ mwf
TO BE SO L D,
And fojfejfion given mmediatclfr
A Large two ItcVy brick Houfc,handfomety
fituatcd in Princeton. There are four rooms
a-'id a large entry on each floor, and fire rooms in
the girrct, a range of back buildings 51 feet in
length, and a piazza of SI 'l'heie is a pump
m the yard, an cxcelleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
Itables, one of which is neW, 44 feet ltnyy, with
I Halls in the two stables for 27 horfee. The heal
thiifcfs and pteafaotncf> oi its situation, and the
number of grnteel and agreeable families irt ar.d
near the town, render it a desirable retreeat for a
gentleman from the city. 'he commo'lioufncfs of
the house, its central position, and the largeness of
the stables, nuke it evtiy w;.y fuitablefor a tavern,for
which it alwars been confiderd as a capital
fta.id. Inquire on rhe premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
T'rincfton, Ang. 15. iq—diwi;uvtf
N" O T I C E.
IF Thedv CTHara, who some years fincekept
School at Bridges, Queen's County, Eas
tern Maryland, fcc living, he is hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. Ambrose
Marftial, near Warwick, Cecil County, Eastern
Shore, Maryland, from whom he* will receive in
t crafting" information.
Avgyfi 4. . mw&f^w
City ot' Walhington;
SCHEME-
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
Amag'nificent dwellirvg-houfe ao,ocodollars,
U ca!h 36,000, ire jo.ooc^
I ditto 15,000 k cafl# 35,000 40,000
I ditto 15,000 He cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cart) 10,000 10,0010
1 ditto 5,000 & cafy 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & caih 5,000 i0,6«0
1 ca!h prize of to,ooo
x do. 5,000 each,are • 10,000
10 ilo. 1,000 - - to,ooc
»o do. 500 1 - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
too do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. »5 - - 10,000
1,000 do.' »o - »0,000
15,000 do. 10 - 159,000
'6i?39 Prizes.
JMankj.
5c,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,00*
|N. B. Tofavour thofewho may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars yr'U l> e
the 1.«3T drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but one :
And approved r.otes, feeuring payment in either
monay or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for asynumber not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lot«ery will afford an elogant specimen of
the private buildings to be erefled in the City of
Washington—Two beautiful defigps are already
lelefled for the entire Ironts on two of the public
fquaret j from these ispropofed toereiSl
two centre and c oiir corner foon aspof
fible after this lottery isfold, and to conrey them,
when complete, to the foftunWe adventurers, in
the manner deferibed in the fcherne f-or the Hotel
Lottery. A nett dednftion of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necelfary eipenfes of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intfmkd for the National Umverfity, to
be ercded within the city of Washington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the paynsort of the
Priies, ire held by the President and two Dired
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL JXLOBGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank oi Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Feter
Gilman, Boftoti: of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
r and of Richard W«ll», Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
Frttn the Otfego Herald.
CAUTION.
WHEREAS a/fombination of men in this
county have undertaken to enrich th«m
felves.by fabricating titles to sundry valuable trails
of land, the property of gentlemen living in New
Yoik, Philadelphia, London and Paris, for which
trails of land large sums of money have been paid
to those fraudulent men, by innocent parchafers •
It is. therefore just thit public information (hould
ke given, to the end, that the irjured eiay feekre
drefs while the men have property, and are to be
found. TJiofc who have been difcovercd are Tru
man Harrifou, Jofcph Witcomb, said now to re
side in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and
several other; who go under fi&itious names. It i>
supposed that the lands offered fcr sale on those fa
bricated titles, are at lead worth fitty thousand
dollars. Snch as we have afluol knowledge of are
as follows : Lots No. II and 11, Otfego patent,
thousand acres each,the a&ual property ofWilliam
Dellwyn, now of London ; lots No. 58 and 64,
fame patent, thousand acres each, the property of
Mr. Chaumont,' now of Paris, and James Avenll
and others, ot this State. There is fame grounds
to suppose that the lands of Riehard Wells and
Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, areSinder tl—ir
management.—The Printers will do well to.give
this a place in their papers, as well to caution the
public agninft purchasing those lands, as also to de
prive those men in future"from nv.pofmg on indivi
duifs, which their .education and adiliefs have en
abled tliem to do heretofore. Witcomb has been
a Ihopkeepcr of some note in this country.
The following affidavits will set in a clear point
of view the wickedness of those men, which when
the public have perused, will induee them to ex
cufc the interference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July 28th, 17J7.
I Thomas Kelly, of the Crunty of Otfego, hav
ing been led into an error, by John Witcemb and
Truman Harrifon, of .the fame County, to sign a
deed to them, for lot No. 58, Otfego winch
was the property of William T. Franklin now .Mr.
Chamont's and o'hers ; and further the said Joseph
and Truman did putftiade me to do this against my
inclination, which was made out on the icth day
of November, 1793, or set back two years so as
to bring it to that time ; attd further the name of
Pardon Starkstothat deed was a Mitious name-,
there being no fueh perlon there. To this I make
voluntary oath. THOMAS KELLY.
19th July, 1797.
On the 19th July, 1797, came personally before
me, Thomas Kelly, the fubicriber to the above af
fidavit, and made solemn oath that it contains noth
ing but the truth.
ELIHU PHINNEY, Jufticc of-the Peace.
On the 18th July, 1797, came before me Jacob
Kibby, a perlon by me well known and worthy of
good credit, who on his solemn oath did fay, that
two of »he parties abovementioned did make ap
plication to him this deponent, l'ome time in the
winter of 1796, to make them a deed for two thou
sand acres of land in the Otego patent, and pro
mised this deponent a {hare of the profits, on the
sale of said lauds, for his so doing ; and that they
made application several times for the fame purpole,
which fc;rvices this deponent tts often refufed, de
claring to them that he had no right to lands, and
could do no such thing ; j*'hich daring attempt on
this deponent's integrity he had related a*rong his
friends several tiaies, previous to making this affi
davit. JACOB KIBBKY-.
Sworn before mc,
ELIHU PHINNEY, Justice of the Peace.
Aug. 3. iaw4W.
Will be Handed,
From onboard the ihip A&ive, Capt.Blair,from
Hamhuigh,
20 bales white Russia clean Hemp
1. casks Clover Seed
For tSalr by
IhomsLs Herman Lcuffer,
Worth Fifth fkeet, No. 34.
Timr f
William iilackburn,
LOTTERr and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 south Second * reet.
r r*ICKETS in the Canal Lottery, 11, wticli
i commonccd drawing the 29th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion 71 s the drawing advances, particular')' cn ac
count of the five firfl drawu tickets, prizes of
four thou fa lid dollars each, on the lafi: day 01
drawing
Check Books kept for examination and render
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Walhington,No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets forfale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perk:omen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the courfeof the summer.
The bufmefs of a Broker in all kinds of Sleek,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c. tranfa&ed with the
utmost attention.
June 2 | tuJrf
Erikine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May 15 $
"state trials.
Sold b W. Young, Bookseller, No. 5», South Se
•> cond-ftrect,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and Requit
al of FrancisKopkinfon, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3 !
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general assortment of !
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack- ,
ege, well aflorted,and entitled to the drawback if
exported. July 7 —*
I'HESUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
the Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Pleni
potentiary ot his Biitaimic Majesty, General Agent
foraflitying Britilh creditors, fuch particular a
ger»ts as they may fpecitlly authorize, in prbfeouting
their claims brforethe csmmiflioners for carrying in
to effect the sixth article ot the Treaty of Amity, Com
, merce and Navigation between his Britannic kiajefiy and
; the United States of Anuria, hereby gives notice that
he ha* opened hit office at his house the south call
1 corner of Chefnut and fifth Greets, Philadelphia,
i where he Is ready to receive all claims or inftru&ions
' for claims with the vouchers aud document* thereof,
for the purpose -of bringing forwa-rd the fame agree
ably so the rules and orders which the board may
think pftfgcr to prescribe.
. j And as it will be for the irtfercft of all concerned,
. j that the federal claims be so dated, and support
, ed, as to prevent the delay which would arile front
, the necefTityof obtaining further information, or ad
\ ditional materiais,fiom periods rcfiding at a dillance,
I the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (ior the
i direction chiefly of those, who, not having employ
p ! ed particular agents, mav leave the prosecution cf
i their claims to his charge and management) that all
! such clain»s ought in particularto set forth—
-1 ft. The proper description and Gtnation cf the
creditor or claimant, and original debtor, refpett
ively.
: fed. The date audnature of the original contract or
debt.
3d. Whens in wkat iTMoner, and to what extent,
• the creditor or claimant wws prevented or impeded,
• by the pro vi ft on, operation or deleft of law, the
; decifionsand praftice ot courts, or icfliaintof exe
cution, froin rcaovering payment of the'debt in
queftiom
4th. The lofsand damage incurred or fuflaiped,
in consequence of such impediments, whether the
fsrne may have arisen from the infolveney, change of
situation, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal
•, remedy from iapfc of t*ine, or othercaufcs impairing
the value and security of the debt, whick would not
s have so operated if such impediments had notexiftcd.
And sth The particular grounds and reasons on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treaty, that 44 by the ordinary course of judicial pro
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and actually
1 have and reccivefull and adequate compensation" ior
the loftes and damages so fuflaiued.
The general agent thinks it his doty further to fug
• gefl that the several claims ought to be accompanied
" and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
" sworn and regularly attefterl, both as to the exigence
I of the debts claimed, and such otfler circumftanccs
a as may be within their own knowledge rtfpe&tvely.
*tid wherever the claimants in fiatingthe nature ot
1 their evidence (which mull in every instance be the
: beftof which the cafe fs capable) have otcafion to
refer to the telHraony of witnettes, it will be proper
1 toapprifethe general agent of the names and places
of rcfidecce of such witnrffet and the fa£Uto be ella
£ blilhed by their teftimorty.
1 Wm. Moore Smith.
s Philadelphia, June Bth. »797« d
) for Sale,
: That tutll known place, called Vjndkomft's
: , FURY,
ON Nefliaminy creek, iS miles from Phi
ladelphia, on 'the New York post road,
" containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
1 premits are a large two itory Hone house occu
pied as atvern, and a good one story (lone kit
' cheny a large frame stable with a good threshing
1 floor, and ibmc out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a moftelegant situation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding of the Neiliam
j iny to its junflion wiih tht Delawa»e, and thence
, across to the Jersey shore. It has the privilege
, of one half the toll received from the bridge.
ForteinK applv to the SsWcriber,
j MORpECAI LEWIS,
r *y»v 14-- jtawtf.
; COLUMBIA HOUSE
f Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. .GROOMBRIDGE with m»th pleas
ure and rtfpe<f\, returns hrr sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragemeßt
she has received during four years residence in
: Philadelphia ; and afiures her friends ami the
" public, so far from intending to decline her
" school, (he has made a fupenor arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
J education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
t Groombridge and masters excelling in their
refpedlivc profrfiions.
Corner of ?pruce and Eleventh Streets.
June jth, 1797- Jimftf
The fituat 011 is perfectly healtliy ; and made
more agrceablehy an extenfrve garden and lot
ofgrrnnd adjoining the house.
jus Publijhed,
And to be h»d of Messrs. Dobfon, Campbell.Rice,
Gary, and the other pricipal BookfcUers in the
city,price one dollar, tvvinty-five cents,in hoards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
June ao. *6t
Rofs' SijyJon,
HAVE FOR SALE
f Hogfluads,
Excellent Coffee in < Tierces, and
C Barrel?.
A final! parcel cf nice cocoa i/i bags
fev Jamaica fnjpits, fourth proof
Sup's ricr Tener'nTes wine, old an'i in Madeira pipes
An invoice of jewellery and hosiery to be fold by
the package'
A few hru'.fp. is »( best EnJifh. cheese.
_K'T dtf.
The Subscriber has for Sale,
A large aflorrmant ®f India Mjifiins,
coarse And fine .
India Calicoes
Sooty Uomaljs
B'uc Cloths and Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Gi!!i Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Iriih Linen 9 and sheetings, weEi
aflorted
A box of Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
I wo boxes of fine Spices, cotaining Nutmeg?,-
Mace and Cloves
Black Peppcfr of firft quality
Eafl India Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wine
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimftoße
Mordecai Lewis<
yJi/fruft 11, aawini
Higgins' Specific
FOR THB
PREVENTION AND CURE OF THE
TEL LOW FE VER.
since this disease made such ravages in thi*
-i city and New-1-ork, the author has turned his
attention to itscaures and cure.—The result of his
enquiries has convinced brm that the rcafon why so
few persons recover from its attacks, are fr*m its
not ( being well understood, and the consequent
wrong niethod taken to cure it. He is persuaded
that theexccflive bleedigrs and raercurhzl reatment
of the Faculty is highly that the on
rational mode of treatment is by the use of proper
acids. Convinced of thfr he offers his Specific as a
certain remedy, if used according to the directions.
To be had in bottles, at ope dollar each, of the
inventor Geo. Higxins, Cherry *hreet, two doors a
bove Ninth street, (late manager of J>:kfon and
Co's Medicine Warehouse, London) 2 by y.Le
hlnnc,No. 2*6; VP. Griffith, No. T77, T. Rearce % No.
Hit South Third street, T. Stiff] No. 55, New flreet,
near Vine street, and J. Gales, No. 36, Race flreet.
tuths 3t
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just raceived, by W.m. Griffiths, No. 177, South
Second-street, a frelh supply of
Genuine Balsam of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir Jqhn Hill
JHL (who knowledge as a Botanist procured him
the appellation ef the Linnasus of Britain) and is
•onddered in England a? a certain cure for the aboVfe
complaints; it is also of Angular efficacy in the
Hooping Cough,
\ It may also be had retail of W. A. Stokes, No.
61, Scuth Second-street, and T. Stitf, ,55, New
ftr«et, in bottles at 75 cents each.
Wm. Griffiths having obfervedthc hippy cf
fe& of -the medicine, (several cures hav
ing come withhi his own knowledge) and the great
demand for it has induced him to order a large
fupp'y, a part of which he has }uft received.
dvgujl 3. law^w
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on Saturday last, two indented Ser
vants, Gilford Dally, a mulatto boy, about 17
years of age, a Aim light built adlive k!Iow, can
read and write t five feet seven or eight inches hiqh,
has a heavy countenance ; had on a fuftian coatee
and trowfers, a cro\Vned hat, fine ftioes &c.
Allan Hellons, a black man, ibout 2$ years of
age, five feet seven or eight inchts high,a thick fct
> clumsy built fellow, particularly about the breed);
had on a sailor's blue jaclut lined with fwanlkin,
dark striped vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
hat, coarse ihoes, &c.; each of them had several
| Ihirtsand several other cloathes witfc them. Thir*
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or 15 dol
lars for each, and rca/bnable charges, oh delivering
them at No. 54, North Third-street.
The b'ack fellow 'is about a year irfcm Lewis
Town, in the County of Suffcx, state of Dela
ware, and has taken the boy with him.
July 31. N mtu&f3w
To be SOLD or RENTED,
A LARGE 3 Story Brick House, on the
-L\- Scruth fide of Filbert street, between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
veyor General's Office.
The Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet de«p,
the lot 110 feet deep, with the privilege of 1 nine
feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court For Carnages
to turn in. The House Is not j»laftered, and
may be turned either into one, or t .vo dwelling
Houles. It is luitable for a large
or would jnake a good Tavern. Immediatt
pofleffiou will be given,
Apply to No. ill, Chefnut-Street.
A Hp. 2 i. cod4t.
Muftcal Injirument Manufactory,
No. 167, Arch-Street.
HARPER, harpsichord,grand, portable graxd,
fid:-board, pier table and fqusxe piar,o for re
London, returns thanks to his friends,
and the public, for tnt-ir liberal encouragement,
and hopes that by his nffiduity and attxntic n to rv
ciy branch of his-bufincfs, to merit acortiruarcc
cf their favors. Piano fortes made on the newest
and most approved plans, with pedals, patent*
swell, and French harp stop, which he flntejs
h'irhffrlf will ue found en trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not fuperiorto any import
ed, and twenty -per cent cheaper. Any ir.ftru
rm-nt purchased ut him, if not approved of in
rwelve months, he will exchange.
N.-J§. All kinds of Mnfical mftruments mado.
uned, and repairer with the greatest accura<-)\
d;ipatch, and on the molt reaionable term. , fcf
ready money only.
Secondhand Piano Fortes taken in
May 2'"-. .
Fatty Doll art Reivard.
RAN away Vrain the fubferiber on th« fee,
end day of this inft. July, a JVluUtto Man,
mined VViil Bowzer, about forty years of s^e,
five feet fevrn or eight inches high, rather
chunky made ; had on when he went auav, a
drab colored cloth coat,iiriped purple trowfers
and jacket. It is probable he will change hi*
cloathes, as he took a number with him. The
ifaul feiTow formerly btlcnged to Mr- Charrej
liiake of this place; and it is expefled he hag
made towards Jones's Neck, in the Delaware
State. —Any person apprehending the ft>id felr
low, and fecurinp him £y that J can get him a
g-ain, lhall receive the above revrird if taken
(Vt of the county, and Twenty Hollars if in
the county, asd all reasonable charges if bro't
home.
JESSE REED,
Quceb Ann's County, Maryland.
July 3. " «i*