of ahb Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.
Number 1628.J
SALES Bt AUCTION.
Staled Sales
For DRr GOOD S.
r Forenoon—Edward Po)c, No. 56,
Motn!ay ' f°»th Front-street,*
' Afternoon—Footman & Go. No. 65
(. S»uth Front-street.
("Forenoon —John Cornetly, Old Cit»
Turft /i 3 Auction, No. 73 fout : h I'ront-ftreet.
J * J Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C. IHigh-ftreet.
Wel-ufday \ r V,enfon > N °- 74
I south Third-ftrcet.
Thursday j Forenoon-fidwird Fox.
I Afternoon—John Connelly.
p ■ j 1 Forenoon—William Shannon.
5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Shthrdat Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
R.ea'l Estate for "-ale,
PLANTATION, in a healthy and wood li
*. tuition 0:1 Ch-i'ter Creek, in Middleton
Town Slip, Delaware- County, containing 119 V
acrts, upwards of jo acres of whioh are wood j
ltiid, V/eil timbered ; the remainder plough land '
afcd water :4 ni-adow—nf the latter, utany more ]
acres can be made at a frna'l ccpence. There are
on said premises, a good orchard of beil grafted {
fruit, a house, with a spring near the door, a frame ;
ftabli.ig under, and a log tenement on 1
one part of said place Any person incliui.ig
to purchafc, may view the premises by applying
to Wm. HsnnsH, on said farm, ahd fenoV the
terms by applying to Jonathan Penn ell, in the
Lorough of Cteffer.
novoflfifcr 11, "jt e»d
R E MO V~A L.
Maurice Moynihan,
his friends and the public, that he
has removed his Store of Chin*, GUIs, Queen*
Ware, and Dry Goods, from Ho. 81 North Sc
cund, to No. 71 North Seventh Street, north daft
cortier of Cherry Alley, he (olicits thefa
vor of his former cuflomers.
N. 13. CrUtes put up \Vith care at the fliorteft
notice.
November 2. dtf
rnn oat T7
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. J5, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Alfa, a general aflbrtment of Tools,
Eile» and Material*, colliding of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour hrafs pinions
and large work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, GlafFei, Pumice Stone, Emery,
Rotten Stone, Cat Gut; bench, stand and tail
Vices; Tunis, Pliers,Chains,Seals,Keys, &c. &c.
Apprentices Wanted.
riorvemb'er 3. ffctutf
For Sale by the Subfcrifrer,
White Plattillas
JJfown Hollinds
White Sheetings ,
Do whiles 1
Silelia bordered Handkerchiefs
Striped Siiwoufes
Slack Uibbona, Ns. 3 and 4
Glass Tumblers, and Looking GlaflVs, in
in cases, &c. &c.
George Pennock.
November 6. cod 3 w
FOR SALE,
A Team of five excellqntHories,
with a Waggca and Gears. The Horfeb are all
young, fl'ong, true to the draught, and capable
(jf hauling as great a weight as mosL in the coVsn
try. The Waggon and Gears are ftronc and
in good order. Apply to ROBERT GkiiEN,
Well Town, Cheiter county, or'io
Thomas Fijher, .
No. 141, S. Second Street, Phila elphia
n mo. a, eod<w.
Samuel & Miers Fifhtr,
ARB NOW OPENING,
At their Warchoufe, Vo. a 7,Dock Street, a frefti
assortment of Woolen and other goods, fu:table to
the season, received by the late arrivali from Eng
land.
Tlry have also for Sale,
Lisbon
( ,n p i P"» h »> ds i""" c,fc-
Port Wines, J
Aflorted queen's ware in crates, &c.
ibth mt- 23d. diw^tav^tv.
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price 3-Bths of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents
Contained ifc No. V and VI of
" The Hiftof-y of the United States for
the year 1796,"
fn whleh the en ARCS or speculation againll
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasury, is FULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN ST UIMS-S'LT.
This publication presents a concise ftatemeot
«£ the hafe means pra&ifed by the Jacobins
United States to asperse the chara&ers of those
parsons who arc considered as hostile to their disor
ganizing schemes. It also contains the cor
rtfpondence between Mr. Hamilton and MefTrs.
Monroe, MuMenburgh and Venab'e, on the fub
jedef the documents aforefaid, and a scries of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt,
•hat the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring eonfpiracy on the part
of the latter and his associates to extort money.
£s* A discount of one third from the retail price
will be nlade in favor ot wholesale purchaivri, for
(Tash. Orders to be addressed to Mr. Youn«.
AvptH 15.
~D A N C I N G.
MR. tsf Mrs. B T R NE,
Of the 1 heitre,
RESPECTFULLY inform the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of Philadelphia, that Mr. Byrne's
Academy will commence on th« ift, and_ Mrs.
B*rme's on the jd of December next,
november 40.
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in*or near
the centreof the city—for which a generous
rent wfll be given; to be taken for a year, or on
joore for a longer term. Inquire of thi Printer.
oa. 17. ect f
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 27, 1797
For Anifterdam,
The Ship
farmer, !
Joun M'Collom, Mifttr; |
WILL fail in a few days, the I
~<-»^»-«i«tii&S^>g rea tcr fart (jf i»er cargo
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or p iC
fage, apply to the ciafler on board, at Walout
ftreet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAQE.
Who i> Landing, out of the f.iki Ship, from Boar
deaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine In quarter caflcs
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fontiniac,
Sauterne, v Wines in cases
Lunille, }
Prunes in boxes
novemSrr 24. $
for l^iverpool,
>--wa The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
Captain Silas Swain.
A. l.arge proportion of her I
V. cargo being ready to go on
hoard, is cipefled to fail on or about Sunday, the
3d of Decernj^r.
For Freight or Passage, apply to the Captain on
board, at Walnut-street or to
PHILIP NICKLIN Co.
November %t. S
FOR LONDON,
THE SUIP •
ILIAM PENN,
James losiah, Master.
THH fls p ii now taking on board her cargo, and
will fail in all next week. For freigit or pallage
apply to the er-.ptain, or to
yejfe Robert Wain.
rtov 21. " 5
For Liverpool,
Tie Ship
CLOTHIER,
bJathanielD. Gardner,majler,
TTTU.L fail about the lah j
VV inft. For freight or faf- .
sage apply to the Captain, at Vanuxem's wharf,
or to JAMES OLDDEN,
nov. 3. dtf No. 41, N. Front-street. (
For Londonderry,
~ THE BRIGANTINE
S U K E r,
William Wuittin, Ma.ler.
- " Aflronggood vessel, about two
hundred tons, to fail with all convenient speed, a
greatfpart of her, cargo engaged—now lying at
Willing and Francis's wharf. For freight or paf
faje, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
Landenbergtr s wharf.
Who wants to Charter.
K VisStLof about three hundred tons.
nov 18. ' *> S
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captnin Chispt-olm,
A new vcfTel, with trxcellrat
4^^^^^a CC ohi m odatibns for palfengers—
Sails on tire 10th of December Freight or
Passage, apply t» ROSS Of SIMSQN.
IVhi IjJVf to dispose of,
A small invoice of GLAIJBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a panel of HOLLY WOO®.
ndvetnbcr §
for Hamburgh.
- The Brig MARY,
Pf.tk» York, mailer,
t Lying at Ruffel's wharf, near Pine
J ilreet, is now ready to take in »
? Cargo, and will fail in tea days.
For Freight, or Passage, apply to
GURNEY & SMITH.
November 16. dtf
For Sale or Charter,
Sit GOOD HOPE,
i Wi.l carry about 1100 barrels,and
is ready to take in a cargo. For tarms
fc*AlriS-»r.Cltf apply to
Pragers & Co.
Ko. 151, Soutji Second-street.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lrlbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7.
Wanted to Charter,
' To one port in Hifpaniola and back
A faft failing Vessel, of the bur
then oi 6 or 700 barrels. For terms, apply to
Benjamin MoKca*, No. no, South Front P.reet,
• or to ROBERT ANDREWS,'
No. 86, South Wharves.
nwember 10. $
• For Charter,
t THE SHIP
e J obn Bulkley,
r Samuel Volans, Majler.
veffel is built of live oak
1 and cedar, of about 30:0
' barrels burthen, and ready to receive on board a
JeJJe Ss° Robert Wain.
oa. jr. L
For Sale or Charter,
i The fall failing brig
Brothers,
-j Eying at wharf,
an excellent tingle deeVd vessel, butt heir ahout
lsao bairels—rot twelve months old, and in
r compleat order. For terir.s apply to the master
3 on board, or to
1 Jofepb Antheny iff Co.
Nov.
By John Fen no, N O, 119 Chefnut Street.
Philip y Co.
HAVE I-QH SALE, .
At their SrcWFrs on Walnut furer-t Wharf,
Havannah Sugars, white and brown ,
25 hhds. Jamaica do. ;
joeo pieces of broad Nankeens <
Impqrul Tea.in quarters and eighth»f chtUi ]
QuicUtilvcr in tu'bs
Madeira V/me in pipes and hoglheads
Wine in p:pe>
Old red Port Wiue inhogfheads
Sail Catvafs, aiforted, No. I to $
8 cases nf Manchester Goods confiding of Dimities,
Mufl : nets,GinghapiSiTiiickfttts,torduroys,,&c.
200 crates Queens' Ware, assorted
Nails, assorted
Bla k quart Bottles
Yellow Ocrc iij caflcs
A quantity of writing S'ates, slate Ink Stands, &c. ,
100 quarter calks Gun Powder
1/jey lave atfifor SALE or CHARTER, '
h n\ • The Ship
HAMBURG PACKET, 1
Burihen tons, eoppetcd to t
bends, and completely fitted. (
Thejhlp MOliLl\ burthen 340 tolas, a
good veiTel, and completely fitted. (
The brig AMAZON, b*rthen 1300 bar
rels, may be ready for sea in a few days.
The whole of the veffels to be seen at
Walnut Hreet Wharf. § ncv.^Lc.
Rundle y Leech,
Have jufl. received, and have for Sale, at ?to. 9, '
Walnut (Ireet,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT j
Do. bell house CO i LS j
Queens* WARE ift cases, aflfortcd
1 Bonrdeaux LRANDV of an excellent quality
Do. CLARE F in cases, do.
§THFY *AVF 41.90
For SALE or CHARTER, '
I THE sat?
1 PEGGY,
225 tons, in excellent condition, ind
be sent to sea with little cxpenceor delay,
LIKEWISE, *
THE BRIG
WILLIAM, \
Burthen 201 tons, '
*m£. Til ,
ruroember 16. f _ f
Port y and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By fliip Edward, from Madeira, and Betsey and
Peggy, froai Oporto, in Pipes and Hoglhead», >
For sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALI,
AM J T r ' '
Fonr thousand barrels burthen,
eieellent order—ready to take
in a cargo—about three years old.
likewise,
The Schooner Industry, _
Burthen 800 barrels, ready also to receive a car
go—and a quantity of i
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
JuR landed frott the above vessels at South ftrctt
wharf. eoim. Nov. x.
James vff Richard Smith^
r the liberty of informing their friends
1 and the public, that they have removed their
(lore to No. 54, South Front-freet, next d*or to F.d
vvard Fox's Auition Room, where they hay at
this time for sale, a and general assortment of
European & Eajl India Goods,
Matty of which are just miportjd in theClothjer,
William Penn, See. &.c.
Samuel Pleaiants Iff Sorts,
No. 74, South SecondJlreet,
HAVE received a supply cf Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now opening for lale, on
reasonable terms. Ofl 27 4 W
~ROSS SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a qulntitjr of Bengal COT I ON
Bengal SUGAR, in tags and boxet
Jamaica, T
St. Vincents, > RUM.
afid Bengal j
360 raflts RICH, ;nd
parcel of lhip building RED CEDAR.
OA. 27. • §
Landing this day.
From on board th« schooner Two Friends, Dan
iel Crawley, Mailer,
80 hhds. and ; Jamaica RUM,
12 pipes ) J
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer Ss 5 Son.
udnemhrr 9'. j
400,000 weight of choice Stf. Do
mingo CO I FEE,
FOR SALE BY
JAMES YARD.
November 21. lct
All Persons who are indebted to
the estate of Wiuiam Husham, fen. of Phila
delphia, deceased, are reqiiefted to make fpiedy
payment; and those who have any demands a
gainst said estate, will pleafeto present them, pro
perly atcefted, to the*fubferibers.
William HeyOiam, ~i
Robert Hey/ham. >■ Executors.
Fraftcis Btiwes Sayre, J
n«vembe, 6.
Mujical Injlrument Manufatlory^
167, Arch-street.
TO THE' LOVERS OF HARMONY.
HARPER,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
now ready for sale, a few of his new invented,
and much adniircd fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedals,patent swell, fonopabant and French harp
flop, which for fer.fibility of touch, brilliancy nf
tone,fimplicity and durability of conftrutftion, the
fapericritv of which,he flatters himfelf, a Jingle tri
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As they
are manufactured under his immediate mfpe.-licn,
of the very'hs • seasoned materials, he can Tell oil
reasonable terms for Cash. lufUumenis repaired,
tuned, &c.
N. Bl Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex
change for new.
n femUr 18. 3aw21T.0.
SALrw
AT AUCTION.
For :i ti o'clock, on Saturday morning r-.-xt,
cn Morlrn's wharf, for approved indorsed
at 60 days,
on Soard the polacre St. Domingo, in lots of 200
Footman & Co. Auctioneers.
rnrt 2}, 1
Salerf an eh gant Country Seat \
A T A*~U C T I O N.
Oh V?ednf.sdav evening next, the 29th at
th-r '^ffce-houfe,
IVILL BE \SOLD, 1
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain- t
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two c
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple r
Orchard, &c. on the Irish tra<Sk lane, in the a
township of Moyamenfing, about one mils from
the .city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be mide known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette, or at the Auction Room f
of the fubfcribcr.
The improvements upon this place, for taste and
el gance, ilaud unrivalled. '
John Connelly > Aucfr.
novrmber i\j. dts j
SALES POSTPONED; •
On account of the Weather.
On Friday the 24th inft* prccifely at 9 o'clock in
the morning, will Le fold at C. Emlen's Lumber , c
Yard in the Northern Liberties, near the Hay fcaies, '
all the perfon?.l property there jfcmaininsj, helorg-' 1
ing to of Caleb Eiplen, deceased—con- c
filling of a large quawrity of lumber, '&c.
FOUi'MAN if Co. Au&ioueers. c
fl'V 22
N O T 1 C E.
To holder, of James green leaf,
and EDWARD FOX'S Engagements
IN coufcquence of many havhg been prevent- »
ed, from late unavoidable circumflances from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now inform them, they
are ready to iflue the fame to those who may ap
ply within fixtydays, at No. 8 Chefnut Streel,
andthpfe who de not, will be considered as re
linquilhing their claim on the Aggrogate Fund
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THCMAS W. FRANCI, s
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
mvember, 13. tuthJcfim.
NOTICE. ~
THE Stockholders of the Bank of the United
States, are informed that according to the
flatute of Incorporation a general' Eleflion for
twenty five DireAors will be held at the Bank
of the United States iathe City of Philadelphia,
on Monday the firft day of January next at ten
o'clock'in the forenoon.
A*d pursuant to the Eleventh fe<!lion of the
Bye Laws the Stockholders of the said Bank
arc hereby notified to aflemble in general Meet
ing at the fame place on Tuesday the ftcond
day of January next at five o'clock in the E
vening.
By order of the Board of direflors,
O. SIMPSON, Cathier.
Second fundamental Article.
Not more than three fourths of tne Direflor«
in office, exclusive ef the President, fliall be e-
Ugihle for the next fiicceeding year, but the
Dirtflor who (hall be President at the time of an
£)?<9ioi> may alwayibe re-eltdled."
Philidelpiua, nov. ,i 8 1797. ftE
" 70~LET
At a reasonable Rent,
And may b: entered on immediately,
A thtee-ftery brick House, and almo!!
new) containing two parlour*-, a drav.ing room,
three good chambers, &c. Dtuaced on Front, near
Pineftreet.
Apply no. 1 ab, South Front ftr.eet.
• november »i. 3 C
FOR SALE —by the Sosscr-bers,
An elegant afl'ortment of Madrafs
HANDKERCHIKFS, by the bale.
WILLINGS s3* FRANCIS,
nov. it. 5 Penn-llreet.
Yellow Fever and Peltilential
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one - -l.oaavo.
By William Young, Bookseller,
No. 52, Second street, the corner of Chefnut Ilreet,
f Pricey in boards 87 I 2 Cents J
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper, t
A VIEW
Of the Science ®f Life ;
On the principles eftablifheJ in ths elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M. D.
With an attempt to correct some important er
rors of that work, arid cases in illutlration, chief
ly fe!eif>ed from the records of tlieir praflice, at
the General Hofpiital at Calcutta,
Br William Tates & Chas. Maclean.
To which is fubj#ined, a Treatise on the a&ion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diseases of indirect debility
Andadifiertatitihontliefourcts of Epidemicand.
Peftilentialdifeafes; in whichisattempteijtoprove
by a numerous induction of fafls, that they ne
ver arile from contagion, but are always produ
ced:s,y certain (fates, or certain vicissitudes of
the atmosphere, by Charles Maclean, of
Calcutta.
Nov. at.
'To Gentlemen'who intend /pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114, cornsr
of Sixth and Race Streets. The iitiratiori
; agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contigion. OA. 21 —d»f
To be Solely
A Valuable Plantation,
OF upwards of One Hundred Acres of I and,
will watered, in a he. lthy situation, about
, feyen miles from this City ; the buildings may 1 e
1 made to accommodate a large family, at a mode
, rate expense, and polfcdioxi had in a few weeks.
Part of the purchase-money being paid, a rcalor.-
- able credit will be allowed for the remainder.
F.nquire of the Printer,
rovcm'.ier 3 .mwTtf
[Vol 1.
BEEF.
Prune Beef, fit for India vovagrs, for sale by
WILLIAM SHKAFF,
No. i6B, High-street.
Alfa,' about fiftctn hundredweight of Bees-
Wax.
Nnv, 2t, 1797. rltf.
i HOM %. R AN D AL L,
hit roVSs tohi-. and the
/rimml, inf*rrti-th'-m hit hdrhai-opinsd
anOff.ee, athishouCe, No. SB, Spruce flreet, for
the purpole of franfaiSinj business in the line of
Commission andAgiT.tr, colletfelnj; refits and out
flanding- claim* in any part of the United States.—
He flatters himfeif, that from his long in
this country and a general knowledge ef it, hisfer
cices will be found wurthj the no-ice of thole Who
may pteafe to confide t» Him the manage nent of
any of their concern*.
N- B. Security given where required,
nth mo 24 3tawtf
c 3* St. Andrews' bociety.
THE- Members of St. Andrews' Society, will
pleaU to take notice, that as their Anniver
firy happens this year cm a Fall Day, to be obferv
eti by an orarr of the Synod of Philadelphia, to
which community many of members belong ;
it is therefore juiced proper to del r the Celebra
tion thereof, until Friday, the firft of December,
at O'Ellers' Hotel.
The members are requested to apply for tickets
ol admission to any of the : ffiQants, viz. McfiVs.
Thorn :s Lolper, Givin Hamilton, jun. James Hen
deifon, Kobert William H.
orjDr. Andrew Spcjce.
The officers are desired to attend at one o'clock;
dinner to be on the table at three.
By order of th Soard,
RICHARD L KE, Sedretary.
dtjD
NOW LANDING,
„ At Suuth-ftreet Wharf,
The Cargo of the Ship Concord,
Captain Thompson, from Bitavia.
1 About 300 tons firft qualify Java Coffee (the
whole having been CelfiSed)
80 tons Java Sugar, in canisters and bag*
lolegure*of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
fOK SALE BT
PETER BLIGHT.
Who aljo offers For Sale,
Jufl landed from (hip Amity, from Jamaica,'
ict hhds. Jamaica Sugar, and
170 do. do. Rum.
November 13. d6w
V »
FOR SALE, tr
Joseph Anthony Co.
No. 5, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Brandy, ift and id
proof, jufl landed
250 b les of Bourbon cotton of a superior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality
High proof Jamaica ipirits
Old London particular Madeira wine? In pipe 6 8t
do. market do C qr. calk*.
New England rum in hogsheads
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret in cases
Spermaceti candles andftrain'd oil
Prime Boston beef
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrel*
De. Herring in do do
Bed Boston Mackartl in barrels of the fall fare.
New-En gland tow l : nen
A few tons of RulTia cordage
RufTia feather beds
Clovtr and Timothy feed in iafics
Long vv hale-bone
No. r, a, and 3, Boston fail duck
A few chrfty firft quality Hyson tea
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glass ware.
N ,vemher 8. d»w.
FOR SALE, ~
by the subscribers, No. 11, Fenn-flreet, 1
The Cargo of the S&tp Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Co-Jifiingtf
Baftas, of various qualities & prices
Coffaes Purjum Cloths
Sariahs , Guzz y do.
tfumhumi Dored
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes MuimtiU
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges Patsa Hhkfi.
Ginghams Mulmul do.
Guzzenas BandaonoGS
Gurrahs Siflcrfoy
Piniafcocs Choppa Romals
S&lgatehys Sooty do.
Gillie Romah Perfi&nn of various colour
Mock Pulicats
200 tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings Iff Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges arc ndw open and exposed to sale it
khat commodious (lore the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth ftceet. hot*, to,
- LANDING, *
From on board the fliip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, from London,
60 tons of the best clean Russia
■ „ HEMP
60 casks of bottled BROWN STOUT.
■ For Sale by the fubferibers, No. 21, Pcnn-ftreet.
Willings £s° Francis.
1 Ofl. 31. A
Jufl arrived,
f From Poij§>au-Princc, aa <} for Sale by the fubferi
bers, No. 21, Penn-ftredt,
64a hog,(Kcads,"\
j ?<3 barrels £ Prime Coffee
1 646 bogs J
I . Willings & Francis.
OA. 28. =,
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prove Rice in ivhoh and half tierces
toUi drtntt* Brandy
■' Tcneriff? Wive
1 ' Mo!a," 1
Georgia rvd Carolina-Indigo
Paie'is Duck and one hogjhend of faiit
britjfres,
■ N. is" y. Frazer.
No. 5.J, - '.nth Front Street.
7. dim.
'MR XIIP HI LA b E L PHI A',
Mbiiiv.AY kvß?n.Ho,"
[The foUau'ing very intercfting and
narl'i'aye aSords a ilrriking ex
; 11 pie of what may be done in the Me-
emtiean, by a firiall naval force, uritler
a inirited, active and intelligent cotenun
■ j :•.]
Copy of a letter fmm Stekn Bt'-tE,
sommander of his Dunifli Majesty's fri
gate the Naiade,to the Lords Couvmiffion
ers of the Admiralty (^Copenhagen.
On bun J his fbi* th* A''niifd, l ,
e-iijfing xf-Tripuht, May
I have the honor to acquaint
ships that Capt. Fifker of his majesty's brig
Sai pen, with a hired armed Zebeck, joined
rr.c on the afternoon of the 14th instant,
snd having communicated to me the inf<>r.
mation which he had collected refpifting the
Tripolitan forces, we parted company with
the Thetis, (landing ontothc northward,
and I with the ships under my command to
the fonthward, with a fair wind for Tripo
li's. The following day, at 2p. M. got
/ig'ot of Trippli.% having a frefh breeze right
on shore. I made a signal for my two small
»c:Ws to keep in the wake of the Naiade,
atnl in this failed in to reconnoitre
the harbour. /
After having very diftinftly counted all
the drips*(as per en'clofed lift) we hauled
c.ir wind. The forts fired at us without
eITV-rt, \'?«nigh vn- veve so close in that we
'civ d .L : (t:«ipui(h the particular place in the
Fort, v H re the Ba/Baiu resides, as Mr.
jLvkn . the Danish cofiful, told us. On.
thi- t(stb, . had a light breeze from the
{nor- ; Aanding in towards .the town, we
saw several ships g»tting under way and
making fail out of the harbour : it tailing
calm, they l"o6fl can.e to anchor. Towards
noan, we got a frefh easterly breeze,
which we could stand in towards the land, or
t>r off again at plaafure. I made a signal
for my in 1 all vessels not to attend to my ma
-nctuvres, and,immediately flood in fdr the
enemy, partly with a view to reconnoitre,
and also witji the hope of finding an oppor
tunity to give them a broadside. But after
. I'had «oFinto nine and a half fathoms of
wn'er, my pilot refufed to carry me further.
After taking 3 full survey ofthp ships, I
ft od o!T towards the brig' and Zebeck, with
a press of fail ; and finding on board the
] : :.r a clever fellow, who • undertook to
pilot me'in—knowing also the qualities of
1 ;• frigate, T did not hesitate a single mo
liient, but flood in and pasTed to windward
•<' Breaker* which 'ie in the entrance
of the harbor. Here I r-ceived thefireof the
f.x flips which was really heavier than I had
reason to exptft . I tacked when I had got
abrcoft 1)t them, gave them my broadside,
and flood out again, making at the fame
time the befl use of my stem chafe*. Wc
oh served an immense crowd of people on
board cF all the velMs, I had n6 foontr
got clear of the breakers, than I observed
the whole fqaadron get Hp their anchors and
follow me. I laid to and waited for them
with tranquillity. They very soon got out
ail Cx, and immediately attacked me with
great isr.pettioftty. In the mean time my
two small veff<ls had bore down to me,
which cmharraiTed me very much, particu
larly the Zebeck, and hid well nigh been the
e»uf-. ofgrcpt chagrin-to me ; but, jn their
place I faould certainly have done th# fane.
The a A ion commented at half an hour
pafl five o'clock, P. M. and continued with !
great fur)' till half pail feve'.f, when, of a i
sudden, th*y all bore down upon, me, with j
horrid fcreeclifs. I filled my fails to shoot !
ahe■.id, and immediately backed again, in on- j
dcr to keep c'ofe to the enemy. While thus
engaged, I saw a liip wii+i a flag from her
forstopmafthead, and which failed remarka-
Uv well, give chafe to the brig and Zebeck
to leeward of me. Tii.s obliged me to bear,
away in order to thruw myft'f between the
ship and the brig. Whether owing to the 1
fire from the brig's two fix-pound stern-cha
ses, (which I have reason to believe) or my
corning up with the frigate, the enemy gave
up the pursuit, and hauled his wind ; but
instead of making fail, he backed his main
topfail. We pasTed so close under his stern, (
as tothrow some 3Tb grenades from the tops ■
iuto him, giving him at the fame time our
whole broadside, and we could hear its tak
ing proper efFe£l 011 him. By this time it
had grow* so dark that wc could no longer <
ohferve his manoeuvres. His stem was ve
ry much fluttered ;• —his mizen yard came ]
defwn, and the brig had shot away his jib
boom previous to pur coming tip. The o- <
ther tefTels we had just before engaged, had
already hauled their wind and flood in for
the shore. 'The darkness of the night ren- (
dered it prudent for me to remain with my
small vessels and protest them. Had I been
alone, I (hoidd have been better pleased, be- ■ j
cause I fhotdd certainly have done more.
I have loft in ihis a&ion, only one man,
viz. Frederick ThygeJon, gunner ; who got J
fl musket ball through his body, and died
whilst the surgeon was tying up his wound
he was ail able man in his line. think, J
however, I may cfteem myfelf fortunate in /
notlofing more men, because when we pas
sed under the stem of the Tripolitan ship,
she suspended the fire of her great guns, in
order to pour in upon lis a fire of musketry, c .-
so tremendous that it is difficult to form an /}
idea of it N a severe !lor:u of hail is the on
ly thing I can campare it to.' The Naiace's it
hull, decks, mails, and m»ft of her fails, "
bear fufficient marks' of it. The enemy's
guns through the whole comfe of the ac- t}
tion, rce-te welt-pointed, hut 100 high, so J
that only our fails and rigginghave fufterid. n
Every fail we had bent, has been torn to qi
pieces. h,
I beg leave to ex press to your lordships I hi
the pleasure I have felt in feeing .every ofa- 1 aj
fie; T ■r\v» the liorlor to cofflrsan-1, 'perform
his duty with toe great-eft y..t;al *iid ahierity. j
<THe good example f.-t them by <heir offi
cers was ffioft g .'.hidtly fecond;d by every !
maa on hoard. I therefore flitter myfelf "
that niching his been neglected which
could promote Wis majesty's service, or *reu
l(j der the Danish flag refp;£ted.
rfeel it my duty to recommend to your
lordlbips, its the strongest manner, Captain
Holek, commander of his majelly'.-, brig,,
the'Sarpcn. He manoeuvred his ship in-an
1- extremely fkilful manner, and kept up with
hi* flern chalerti constant ai:d unremitting
fire, to the great credit of thdfc who manag- ;
C, l them. He really defended his brig like j
j- a brave man. Your iord.liips will find by j
his letter that he had one mas wounded culy. J
.Lieut. Mun k, commander of the Zeb«ck, I
~ manoeuvred also very well : he obeyed my
orders and signals with great exaflnefs, and
]. made the be* firehe could, mostly of fnuf
„ ketry.
3 (Signed) STEEN BILEE. .
t> Note of oil board his
r . majesty's ship the Naiade in the i£lien of
ie the 16th inftaut..
]-, Twelve pound shot 346
I Four pound do. 116
0 Eighteen pound caronades 24
lt Extraft ofa letter from capt. Bille, com
t manderof hi* majesty's frigate the Naiade,
|j to commodore Vrierulff, commissioner •
of hismajefty's dock yard at Copenhagen. •
e On board bis majefly 1 frigate the Naiadt,
in tbcbubor of Malta, Juie &, 1797.
II SIIl >
_j Since my letter giving yoy an account of
t the engagement of the 16th ult. affairs hav«
very much changed. On the 17th I pre-
fented myfelf before Tripoli's having sent
e the brig and Zebeek to Malta. I faw l all
the ships ivhich w* had engaged hauled close
_ in under the guns of the Fort, and hard at
work to repair their damages. I repeated
, this visit everyday until the 22d, when a, ,
fioat came dut to me, carrying English co
lours. It proved to be the English consul,
who had been prevailed on fcy the Bnfhaw
4 to come on hoard the Naiade, to know if I
would enter into a negotiation for peace.—
I fetit an officer on Store immedi<tely, accom
panied by Mr. Luknbr, our consul, to hear
his proposals. The preliminaries were a
' K ree d upon a few days afterwards, and os
the 26th, I came to anchor at Tripoli's, and
j- was immediately saluted with at guns.
The following day, I had a public audi
j ence of the Bashaw, who treated me with j
the greatest diilindion, and delivered me 21
' of our countrvmen, who had been made I
prtfoners and flares on the breaking out of
* hostilities. They had been on board the
Tripolitan ships in the action ; butnoaeof
" them got hurt.
On the Jlft, I had my audience of leave,
when the Baihaw prrfenUd me with a fahre
richly set with gold, accompanied by fomc
very flattering compliment.
I had the fatisfaftion to find that the Da
nish nation is held in the high eft refpett bv
the Tripolitans. Their fhipatiad been hand- j
led very rouglily in the engagement with J
us : a Pohicre of 2$ gi:r,s (whieh fcught to 1
desperation) had 8 shot between wind and
water, and loft 100 men killed. The firft '
admiral, a Renegsdoj'wha in the action did '
not ebonite. to lay along ffde t-he Naiade, but '
kept on our quarter, had been surprised at
the fire be received from us, having no idea '
of theconftru&ion of my fi'igare.* J
The grenades which we threw on board '
the Polacre, did great execution,mid the '
Tripolitans werefo unacquainted with them, ■
that some of their officers came afterwards c
on board te me, to know what kind of things J
, they vyere. 0
My carpenters have assisted in repairing '
• the Bafhsw's fliips. 1 I subjoin an exaft lift
j of the ships which wc engaged,
j (Signed) BILLE.
J The Naiade carries 40 guns N
j Viz. Twelve-pounders 28
Four-poundevs 8 6
Caronades,eighteen-pounders 4 a
' F
Total 40 "
Complement 230 men. <1
The Sarpen, brig, carries 18
Viz. Carpnadcs, ei'ghteen-pouri- 0
ders 16 ' d
Guns, Six-pounders 2 h
Total 18 t
Complement 84 men. "
The hired Zebeck entries guns 2
Three-pounders 6 h
i,
Total 64
Complement of the Zebeck, 54 men.
v
Exaft lift of the Tripolitan forces in the ac- £
tion of the 16 May, as since afcertaiued. a
One ship carrying 12 pounders 20 h
8 pounders 8
■ 28 gur.B 31
One do. f 12 pounders 20 0
6 pounders 8 •'
A Polacre J2 pounders 18 t;
* 6 pounders 10 u
A prize ship 18 pounders 4 01
12 pounders 14 t£
A Zc-brck 6 pounders 12 h;
A Gun Boat ~6 pounders 6 ti
F
Total 120 guns c <
* The Naiade was built by the ingenious
captain Hohlenbtrg, on an entirely newconjlrui- to
twn ; which enables her to bring 7 or 8 guns to
hear on any ship that er/rai'es her, tho' placinv tl
itfclf under iJjtnn. ■ oi
bi
According to private letters from France at
the suspicion of having poifoncd General ti,
Hoche !tar, fallen on Scherer, the War ML- "
nifter, with whom Hoche has lately had a £ h
quarrel. In the letter written by the latter ta
he charges Scherer with having surrounded of
him with spies J and it is knbwn that the tr '
agents of the war mir.ifter are ip general
i men vhofe charadlers ws!i not exempt them
. • ffoirl the fufpicon of hiving elleiLd the
- d ath. of his enemy unfairly.
) r I iie death of such a man as is an.
t eventthat muftgivefatisfaftiontoevery friend
h fli humanity. To htm is to be iir ( puted all
- the dreadful butchery that took place in La
Vendee, where every possible treipafs against
r }ufti,ce and feeling were perpetrated with
n out remorse. Itvfa only to be regretted that
. such a wretch should not have ended his life
n upon a public fcaffold, that his death might
h have operated as some kind of warning to
g his fellow murderers.. [London Paper.
1 ni ntw in-i-.iv .11..
y FOREIGN IN'J'ELUGENC?:.
MILAN, September 9.
Ala'jj has lately he?n publijbed here again/! the
enemies (f order. The fuhjlanc'e is as foil VjV
£vtryplot, tending to excite civil <war, or
impede the extcife of the laws.d authorities,flail
It pUh'fbed ivh'j death. *
s The fame puniifbtnent Jiatt le inflificJ upon
f all those, ivho, to aid these plots, Jhall raise
levies, or furnifl arms or ammunition ; and
likeiuife those who Jhall attack or refifl the pub
lic force employed to subdue such dforders, or
Jhpl! Ho/d correspondence "With the authors of
such plots.
' When the armedf tree frail be ordered to df.
per ft any seditious' ajfmllus, all these "Jjljo re
r j-'l e 10 obey, and are taken in the aS of refinance
Jhall also be punished with death.
Alfo those who Jhaflipr<xtd'feditious writings
or Jhall ho!d discourse tending to excite
difubedience to the govtrnms,;!, t,- turJUjuted
f authorities, or in any manner diftrurb the public
1 tranquillity, Jhall be punished ly an imprifonmunt
. not exceeding the term of two years.
t .
1 At the members of the Cisalpine Dire dory
, hm! no opportunity, before their eleS'ton, to ac
► quire a minute knowledge of all the forms and
| details of government affairs, general Buonif
, parte before he left thh for Uditirecommended
. them, as an aj/ijjant, the Briche, Consul
t Giner .1 if the French Rtpißlic, who was in
, 1 a Member of the national assembly of'
[ Fran: A General Buonaparte gave the following
ityirutlians to the chief Commiffeiry of war :
/," As the Cisalpine Republic pays into the
r trtafury of the French army, one million of
. Hires per month, every portion of her territory
, ought in future to be exempted from rcquifttions.
I II "By th» territory of that Republic is at
prifent to be mderjload : all the country situated
biltueeii the rivers Tejfino and Ogliu, and the
, tf Modena, Bologna and Ferr ma.
111. " As long as the Gifalpine troops re
. main within the limits of the Cisalpine Republic ,
■ they tnujl Wfupplied out of the Cisalpine maga
. zines.
IV. " Whenever the Cafilpitis- troops are j
marching out of their own country to join the
Frtnch army, theyJhall be fubpl'ud out of the
magazines of the French Repullu."
( BUONAPARTE. J
MADRID, Sept. 8.
It lufs been every where reported, and also
publijbed :n the Gazette/, that a new BuH is
fion !o be issued ly the Pope, relative to the
Monks. Tlx principal articles "bf this bull are,
tjl.' Th*t in ft lure therefhall hi no mere than
fn: ntnaf.try or community of the fame order in
each city:—- 2d. That no monajlic vows Jhall
be taken by perfjr.s under 24 years of age. Ath
That tht\ monks Jhall not leave their eonver.it
unlefsfor the purpose ef preaching, or confef-
Jing, andflail be under the immediate direction
of the bishops. 4th. That the number of
monks in each convent Jhall be limited, sth.
That the revenue of each convent fball befined
and the fur plus fball le di/pefed oj' as the king
Jhall think Jit. 6th. That the monks Jhall be
olliged to learn, praSife, and teach some feience
art or trade.
VENICE, September 3.
A detachment of 3000 French troops
were embarked here on the jtlwinft. and set
fail for Dalmatia where they are togarrifon
our ifjands, and the chief towns in the litor
al diftri&s, in order to preveut the further
progress ofthe Auftrians, who hsvi hitherto
only taken pofftffion of Zaara and its depen
dencies. The French Venetian fleet which
had failed for Corfu, in July last, appeared
011 Wednesday quite in fight of the city,and
difembsrked immediately several thousand
land troops, and a corps of Greek volun- ,
teers. The fleet has been reinforced at
Corfu with etjrbt French and four Venetian ,
(hips of the line and is now composed of .
20 fliips of the line, I 7 frigates and a num
ber of fin all armed • vessels, making in all
from 50 to 60 fail, besides the 8 ships now
fitting and wbich are also ready f»r fca. (
Repijrt fays that this fleet is destined to Co- ,
ver a descent upon the coast of Iftria and j
Croatia, in cafe the negociatians at (
ano should be broke off. It is indeed poffi- ,
ble that the fleet has been ordered to return j
from Corfu, and draw nearer to the'Auftfi- c
an coast, in order to intimidate th«. Emper- a
or, and hasten the concluflon of a defiim c
live peace, by the difplay.of such a forrrii- l
dable naval force. ■ But this fleet has cer- r
tainly not been fitted out, to make an attack
upon the Austrian coast, because our nu
mttous gallics and bombfhips might in oafe
of seceflity be employed with more advan- y
tage in the shallow bays along the coast of t
Croatia. It is probable that the fleet after t
having taken on board the naval fta- I
tues &c. stipulated for in our treaty with f
France, will return to the Mediterranean in t
comriany with the ships now fitting here.
C jt municipality has charged our minis- t
ter sjt Conjlantinople t'o communicate to the \ v
Ottoman Porte the solemn.protestations of j f ;
the Venetian Republic again ft the invr.fion ! v
of Iftria and a part of Venetian ls.almatia, j a
by tbc Auftrians. The Tnrkifh afr.baffador ' tl
at Paris has already delivered a note* to the .
Executive Directory wherein he declares
" that it was far from him to believe, that £
the General in chief Buonaparte had either
tacitly or expressly consented to the seizure
of Venetian Iftria and Daimatia by the Auf
trians, he was on the contrary convinced that
the worthy General had felt great difplea- j
i fare at the proceeding# becjnjfe it was Mtuil
e !y fr.-juricvis to the ere lis of the Ottoman
Porteand of the French Republic, &c.
n. Sept, 6.
i Before the revolution there was not a
1 spark of martial spirit. to be difewyered a
-3 inon£the Venetians. They paid the Scla
\ variirns and other foreigners to iio-ht their
- battles and defend the republic. But every
t thing affiimes now a martial appearance, and
e even the boys from ij to 14 years old are
t embodied, and'called the hopeful legions,
0 [legondi de buorn tinder the
] old government,the arsenals were full of arms;
I- yet p.o one wns anxious t.• make life of *he*i.
The Rrfcnalsarenowen-ptied,a!lthearms have
beendiilribtitedamofig thepeople,andyet the
general cry is "ill myre arms. Upon par
tieular requelf the general in chief has made
' a prefentof 3600'armstp the national guards
of this city, which is completely organized,
and amounts to 27,000 men.
HANAU, Sept. 13.
? The central adniiv:iftration~"of the Cifrhi
' nianß, iffned a proclamation
th.it all the ndminiftj-ations and municipali
ties of the Germau provinces weft of the
r Rhine, fliould be put on the fame footing
as the French. In another proclamation it
. ordains, that 50,000 n>en, national troops,
fhouhi be raised without delay ; 20,000 of
these troops are to join the French armies
1 in order to afiiit them if necCfiaryft is said,
in defending glorious cause of liberty
' and tht independence of the Cifrhinian pco
c pie. Theremaining 30,c00 are destined to
do duty in the citijs and strong places, and
' it hoftilicies .'i'.ould to occupy
' the potts i, 1 the rear of the French army.
.Trees of Liberty bearing the Ciarhinian flag
are planted in all the towns and villages on
the left bank of the Rhine. Every inhabi
' ] i« obliged to wear the Cifrhiniaa cockade,
which is green i>lue and red.
' PARIS, Sept. 18. 1797.
h Before general Moreau left Strafburg, he
ordered several persons to be arretted whom
he knew to. ke£p a correspondence with the
emigrants. All the members of the adminis
tration, but one, were displaced, and ao
" r body r/as fuffered to pass off the bridge of
Kehl, to or from the right bank of Rhine.
' Eighty deputies were arrested in the depart
-1 meat of the Lower Rhine, and a much
\ greater number took flight and hasten.-d to
! the otjier fide of the River, as soon as the
reports of the defeat of the conspirators at
' Paris were whispered about. The 'General
of division Moulins, who commands at
i Strasbourg, has taken the most energetic
' »measures to purge the country from royal-
I ifts.
Nobody queflions the republicanism. of
General Moreau, but his long silence on
the fubjedl of the difcorery of a correfpon
j dence between Cor.de and Pichegru is fe-
I verely ccnfnr ed. The correspondence found
] in the Emigrant KJenghin's trunk, was in
bis hands since April last, and he with-held
, its contents from the government until
September, and even then he communicated
the £ecret only in confidence to one of his
acquaintances in the person of the dire&or
Barthlemy, to whom hifl letter dated Straf
r bourg, Sept. 3 was dire&:d. How differ
ent was the conduct of the general in chief
of the army of Italy ! The ci-devant Count
d'AntraigMes was about the middle of May
arrested at Ti-ielte, bv general Bernadotte,
who sent him immediately with his papers
to Buonaparte's head quarters at Montbel
lo. A copy ofd'Antraigues convjrfation
with Montgailiard certified at Monttbello
on the 24th May, by Berthier, was besides
other interefung pieces fafely delivered :o ,
the three faithful dire&ors at the beginiiing
of June. Buonaparte was a friend of Car- I
out, yet he abandoned him as soon as he dis
covered his connections with the enemies of
his count! he facrificed his personal feel
ings to the interest ofthe Republic and com
municated the secrets of the conspirators,
only, to those three executive officers, whom
he found worthy the confidence of a Re
publican.
The family nf Lajollajs mentioned in Mo
rcau'3 letter ashating facilitated Pichegru's
correspondence with tha agents of Louip
XVIII, at Paris, has been found out here,
and is now in prison. The ex-cbief of bri
gade Bcdouille, whom Pichegru frequently
sent to Conde's head-quarters, has been ar
rested with a number of other royal agents
at Befancon.
Sept. 21.
General Reynier, chief ofthe etat-major
of the army of Rhine and Moselle, arrived
ycfterday, with the remaining part of the
letters and memorials found among the emi- ,
grant Klenghin's baggage. Every thing
: was quiet at Strasbourg when he left that" 1
place, the republican army in the high- ,
eft spirits, and no movement had takenplace 1
among the Auftfian troops; their three j
camps are at the distance of from 20 to 30 j
leagues from the advanced polls in the Brif- i
gaw. 1
Sept. 22,
Yesterday another transport of royalists '
was sent off under a strong escort. Trans
portation is unqueftionahly the best method
to punish the apostles »f royalty and force
them in a manner to become ufeful to the i
Rtpublic. The revenues of their estates are t
sent them to the place of their exile, and c
theirproperty in Francecan beconfifcated on- t
Iy iu cafe ofdefertion from theplace to which
they are relegated. The latter clause is c
well calculated to secure th?tn in their new J
fettlemeirt. Many of the exiles will endea- \
vour to render their Situation as comfortable 1
as pofSble, and employ a part of their reo-' c
ney to, clear and fertilize the wildcrnef? of t
Guyanna. ' [
Sept. 23.
CiiMILLE JORDAN, deputy of the de- \
partiiient of the Rhone, to all the ci.'iztn* of - ■.
his department. ' ,
22 Frudidor, .Sept, 7. sth year. 1
MY fellow-citizens, a horrible crime has <
juil been committed. Three X>ire£lors 1
- have evefted the ftar.dard of i d J"..ii against
i the National reprefentatiori ; Th(y have
Caused the place in which our fittings are
held to be invefied by armed men; and
i have driven us forcibly from thence. Seve
ral Deputies are apprehende^a great ntim
- ber have betaken themfelyes to flight ; they
r have no pofiible mode of Communicating
' with each other; and the National Repre
-1 fentation no longer exists. A n handful of
■ Deputies, the slaves of the Diredors, de
, liberating with guns at their breads, dare to
-• ftilFiifurp the title. They have publi(hed
; the terrible revolutionary code, and have a
. nulled the free and legal eledions. They
; j have determined on the transportation of sis
- , ty-two Representatives, among whom your
- I deputies have the honour to be'comprehend.
■ j e£; and it i£ by thus overthrowing the
5 ! Confutation, that they accuse us ps confpir
' ] a £ ain ft them, and > iaceat the head of a
ridiculous royalist conspiracy, Pichcgrii, the
immortal defender of the Republic.
Paris contemplates, with a mournfsl si
- j lence, these crimes it cannot repreft.
" In a word, never has military despotism
been difplaved withgreater impudence,amid
• a generous nation. . Never has a greater
; .crime of l.ze-natiop disgraced the French
revolution.
i.' j I conGder it as my duty to confirm to
you #ll thee fads, of which you mull have
' heen informed by rumour. I deposit with
. ; you my p'roteft, and that of the majority of
t;.e tivo Councils, against the violence by
which we have been oppressed. Generous
' fellow-citizens, 1 knew your hearts. Re
l press your indignation at the recital of this
' (dreadful news. Calmly confidtr the iitua
j tion in which you are placed. Let your
; ! energy be tempered by prudence./ This i&
the only advice which I can give you from
the retreat iitrrhich I am compelled to hide
i myfclf, and where I cherifb the hope of be
ing able to i'erve you better than pn the de
sert shore» of Guiana.
CAMILLE JORDAN.
P.S. I (hall, without delay, address to
you a faithful account of tb'e events of the
17'h and 18th. You will be able to judge
for yourfclves of the condyd t>i your Re
prefentatires and that of the Triumvirs,
v September 26.
ARMY OF ITALY.
Buonaparte, commander in chief of the ar
my of Italy, to the soldiers and
of the Bt'n military diviiion. *1
" Soldiers and.Citizens of the Bth
Military Diviiion,
" The executive diredory has placed you
under my command. This arduous talk to
me, will be ufrful ta your tranquillity. I
know the patriotism of the people of the
foiitheru departments. Men who are ene
mies to liberty have in vain attempted to
mislead you. I am making arrangements
to reft e happinefi and tranquillity tothofc
beautiful couitries.
" Republican patriots, return to <yoUr
fire fides—Woe to that commune which
(hall not prrfted you—Woe to the confli
cted authorities which (hall grant indul
gence to crimes and afl'affinations. And
you, generals, commandant* of the places,
officti s, and soldiers, you are worthy of
your brethren in arms in Italy. Protcd
the republicans, and do not filler men cov
ered with crimes, who have delivered Tou
lon to the English, and compelled us to sus
tain a long and painful fug*, and vvhb have
in cue day burnt thirteen fhipi of war, to
return and make laws for you.
Municipal admin iftrators,jufticesofpeace,
examine your consciences—Are you the
friends of the republic and of national glo
ry ? Are you woithy of being the tfcagif
. trates of a great nation ? Cause the laws to
be executed with precision, and know, that
you (hall be refponfibls for the blood filed
under your eyes. We will be your afliftants
:fyou are true to the constitution and t®
liberty ; but your enemies if you are ot»ly
the agents of Louis XVIII. and of the cru
el fadion who are bought by foreign gold.
(Signed) "BUONAPARTE."
Our Lisle plenipotentiaries are on their
return to Paris. Two Couriers are set off
for the comaianders in chief, with infthid
ions to attack the enemy at ever*' point.
Bulletin tie Paris.
The feftival of the foundation of the re
public was celebrated the day before yester
day (Sept. 22) and furpafftd, in magnifi
cence, all those which have taken place fijicff
the federation of 1790. The numerous as
semblage of citizens, the enthusiasm during
the ceremony, the best »rdsr maintained
amid upward!;, of 15,000 fpedators who
filled tne field of Mars and the vast avenues
leading to it, the civic songs, the dances, the
cries ot live the Republic, repeated on all
fides, the acclamations with which the bril
liant proeefiion of the diredory was welcom-
its paflage, the fine appearance of the
tiwhs ftationjrd on the ground as if to re
prtlent v:dory, and laltly, the general as.
ped of Paris on this glorious day, must have
inspired every friend of liberty with joy and.
hope—Rttfacieur
Sept. 28.
The commader in chief of the army of the
San.bre and Meufe.
" Citizens Diredors,
" 1 "'rote to you this morning in, t?ars,
in the midst of a family in affiidion, and t
could therefore give you po account of the -
circumstances which have deprived France
of Gen. Hoche.
" The misfortunes which he experienced
during his imprifouraeut under the ruga of
Roberfpierre, the extraordinary fabVuex,
which he took in the Department of the
Well, to pacify that country ; the b3d luc
cefs of the expedition again ft Ireland, and
the dangers which he lan bv sea ; the accu- -
fation brought against him in the National
Tribune by the late conlpirators; the ardor
with which he attempted to overthrow Aem
all these circumstances combined, exhaust.
cd his Rrength, and about a month ago re
vived with alarming- fymptoni", a cold, and
complaint of thtrbrenft, vvhuh !.« |, 31 l
ready, experienced at 13reft» h* wljkh hehad too miv All tlic afiiftntiee t1
of art was ineffectual to favc him. si
" Fq» seven or right days, he experienc- r<
ed from time to time to time fijs of fiiffoea- !i
tion, which palled off with exceeding diffi- b
cnlty and uncommon agony ; the f.Tialleft rt
motion produced these fits. V efterday, a- k
bout lb in the evening, after having pafled J
a tolerable calm day, and Havinjjevcn appli- ,
ed to some bufmefs, his fuffermgs were re- V
doubled ; a dreadful fit of fuffocation took ti
from him the use of his ferifes, arid after fix E
hourj of indescribable agony he expired iq g
my arms. His body will be opened to-mor
row, In order to deltroy the report in circu- tl
lation, of his having been poisoned. On o
the day after to-morrow, he (hall be sent ai
from Wetzlaer with all due pomp, to be ti
carried to Coblcntz, where he will be in- p
terred by the fide of Gen. Marceau in the
Fort of Peter/burgh. '
" Health and Refpeft.
COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED.
' 3 Vendemiaire, Sept. 24. a<
Malibrand said, " The hero, celebrated 1
by sb many exploits, by the battle of We if- p
femboiirg, the delivery of Lapdau, the sac- n
cess at Quiberon, the pacification of La- a
Vendee, and the lalt paiTage of the Rhine ti
Hoche, is no more. He whose heart is d
■tiot rent with grief, is not a Frenchman, a
Weep, Soldiers of Liberty, weep, Repub,- p
licans, over the death of this intrepid warri- p
or." He concluded by moving that a fu- u
tferal ceremony (hould beheld in the capital, S
and in ail the camps of the Republic,—Re
ferred to a Committee.
GENERAL HOCHE, ! ii
/ V TO THE ' ! C
Diretlors of the Journal de Paris. p
Wetzlaer, 2C.11 year. o
General Hoche* to Citizen Dufrrfu St. Lion, , v
Member of the Council of. Five Hundred, b
and Reporter of the Commjjpon cf the Camp- li
trailer of the Treasury. * 11
Citizen, 1 read in No. 1682 of a Journal > c
entitled, •' The French Republican," t{iat, ! ]
giving an account of th/alVufe of power j
committed as ycu fay by tiie M;|ita-y Au- ii
thorities, you have not scrupled to advance I
the following affertibris :
" TKe General of the army of the Sam- t
bte and Meufe has laid a contribution of d
3,725,000 livres, of wh'icn 219,400 only c
wert paid into the coffers of tin Payrr,alter f
of the Treasury, 736,6 o livres hive difap- r
peared in the hands of the ctat-major. The a
reft has bt;en paid into tha hands of a private c
agent, upon whom the general has given >
drafts to divers contractors."
I am that general whom you have dared, t
to represent in th' National Tribune not on- <
ly as a than who has aCted againftthe law, c
but also as a cheat who has defrauded his ]
brother soldiers of the pay that is due to t
them, As such I ought tb be punished. <
Before you published my name, you (
have done, was it not your duty to examine
the fafts ? Before you traduced an entire t
etat-major whejhave fought for the Repub- (
lie which yo\i are beginning to serve, was
it not your duty to inquire into the charac- ]
ters of my officers and myfelf ? Have you .
been deceived, or are you a deceiver ? Are s
you an ageitf of the faction that piirfue* e- ,
very man who has behaved honorably at the <
head of the armies, or are you only the dupe
of certain villains ?
These questions you will undoubtedly
answer. In the mean time here 4 are the
fafts : -
When I arrived at the army, the pay ot
the troops was several months In arrear.
An infinite'number of expencea were to be
provided for,-without which it was impot
fible to open the campaign. I provided for
them with the funds i f which I was then
depository, and I organized the conquered,
country on the left bank ?f the Rhine in
such a mariner as to enable us to draw from
• thence our fubfiltence, and a part of our
pay. • f
. After signing the preliminaries of peace,
the vifiorioa*-army wßs on the banks of
the Nidda and the Mein, in an indifferent
eouHtry, already impoverished by the armies
of th- Belligerent powers, who had occu
pied it for of fix year.. By an
arre'.e of the XOth Floreal, I laid a contri
bution of 3,725,000 livres. But upon the
representation of the inhabitants, who were
obliged to feed the army, and repair a part
of the claathing and equipage of the soldiers
whom the adminilt ration fuffered to go na
ked, yes, Sir, absolutely naked, I remitted
them a fifth part: therefore the sum of
2,980,000 livres remained tp be levied.
I have few papers with me. I have ne
ver been able to get from the pay matter an
enaft account of what he had received.-
However, I can prove, that down to the
30th Thermidor, there has been paid into
the chest, • ,
By the intermediary com- L, # s. a.
million charged with the
Administration of the
country on the left bank
of the Rhine, -1 - 962,303 4 9
That said commission has
now at its disposal - 100,000 o o
Of the contributions of the
righi Bant, - ' -
Drawn from the country in
four months and a half, 2,840,962 10 5
A sum of twelve hundred thousand livres
remained therefore to be paid in.
I "have the honor to whether you
think that a contribution can be levied im
mediately, at a season when the harvest is
itill (landing, in an impoverished country,
and in many parts of which the inhabitants
harrafled and ruined, have betaken them
lelres to (light. .
You fay that I have a private chest .
Where is it? Who is chared wit.l it J
Name him to me. You fay that I have giv
en drafts upon it to different contractors.—
Name <?ne of them : one to. whom 1 have
given a single crown* Can you be ignorant
that the contractors were the men who cri»
ed loudest again a my nomination to theTOi
r.iftry ? Can you bs ignorant that ior these
thre; months ai.d a half pall I have provided pc.
for the fuhlirtence of 50,006 men on the an<
rtght baiik of the Rhine, without the de- dr)
hvery, Ido not fay of money, but of any ab«
bons to the contractors ? And'this is the ble
reward of my economy ! I have pursued tie!
knaves arid flock-jobbers, and I am accused. cor
Just God ! bo'
1 would have given in qiy accounts to the of
War Miniiler, were it not for the perfecu- an<
tion,l have fuffered on my journey to Paris, boi
But now they are printing, and I intend hoi
giving them to the whole nation. all
I expeft from your candour an anffrer to ty,
the present letter, which I publilh by means, to
of the press. If the facts advanced by you
are true, I ought to be prosecuted the yo
tribunals. If you owe me a pei
public reparation. t bo
(Signed) L. HOCrtE. nal
I am
LONDON, September 28. j A(
The feccnd Baftivian national alTembly, ! elk
according to letters from Hague, dated the lift
15th inllant, have not 6s yet been aile to pu
proceed tp any business. Several of the in
members \who served in the fir'A alTembly,
and were ele£ted to the fecood, have pofi- foi
tively declined to a£t, or to fubferibe to the tat
declaration required. T'iey fay, that they ;be
are convinced, from experience, of the ira- inj
poflihility of forming, uyder the regulations pa
prcicribed, such a cynftitutinn as would be . res
acceptable to the people of the United , do
States, or conducive to their happintfs. : pr
September 30. i ini
I By the 6t'n article of U*** treaty of com- jit
; merce between this country and America, it j gr
j is agreed that in cases where our • merchants re!
I cannot ob.tain just debts due to them, or com- ed
penfation for loss or daifV ; e,fuih"ined in the ti?
ordinary eourfe of juflics, the t tited States wr
, will
but this proviliou is oi.iy tb <tend to such ty
loss as has been oecafioned by lawful jmped- m
' iments, and not to those caused by infolven- to
; cy. A notice to this elfe£t appeared in the b(
1 of- the 12th inft.
It was not WtlA-rtoknownthatthe French (ic
had contributed to the check which the wi
. Gogtifh fuffered at Tencriffe. We learn to- ro
! that the good genius of our allies had pr
thrown mofl a propis on their coafls for their
defence 150 men of the great nation. This yc
circumstance, as wonderful as it was unfore- :n
seen, very,much served to increase the shame a
of the repulsed English ; hut that which, ] th
above all) added to the combinations of a th
deftinv the mull romantic is, that Drouet ar
wa3 there.—Le Republicain. pi
By a report o<f the minister of police to so
the direftory, by them transmitted to the fu
council of 500, the completeexecution,with- m
out any exception of the law of the 12th an
Fruftidor, relative to the condemned depu- „
ties and to the emigrants and priests in gen- b)
end, is represented as necessary to the repose P
of the republic. br
Daunou i« appointed by the institute na- di
tional to pronounce a funeral oration in hon
or of general Hoche.
By a letter from an officer in the arp»y of
prince Charles of Anftria, an extraft of
which is given in the Annates Politique!, :t
appears that the prince of Conde is no long
er considered to be 011 good terms with the C
court of Vienna.
%\>% dftasette* /
PHILADELPHIA, ( '
MONDAY EVENING, - NOVEMBER 17.
A great numberof American vessels from J'
Europe have been parmitted to pass after ((
■ examination by Freifch privateers.
' 0
A Gentleman of this City has received r
1 letters from Barcelona, dated in September, '
, which inform that orders had been received !'
■ there by the Consul from the French Gov- j.
ernment againll capturing any more Ameri-
can vefTel* whose papers are regular. e
f \
I When Muir, Margaret, Skirving, Pal
-5 mer, and other turbnlept and restless dema- '
. goguts, were- transported to Botany Bjiy, 1
1 by the British government, or rather by a
decree of their fellow-citizens, after a can- j
= did trial, and molt elaborate defence, the
» Jacobin presses caused the woVld to ring >
t with complaints and criminations of what 1
s they declared to be a fcandakms and tyran- '
. nical aft : Nay, so greatly were they fcan
-1 dalized at this pretended abomination, that .
f they have not to this day ceased to reprobate ,
the aft. Contrafl thi3 aft of the British t
- government with a recent occurrence in 1
u Francejujlificd by the fame people, and def
_ pise their hypocrisy and falfehood.
o The commissioners appointed by the go- ,
vernor to carry into effeft the law for alle
l. viating the distress of the citizens of Phila
» delphia, and the suburbs thereof in conse
quence of the late calamity,
To the benevolent donors who came for
-9 ward to give relief to our fuffering fellow
citizens at one of those trying periods \thich
0 seldom happen in any country.
It is to you that we conceive it our duty
1 to address at this time ; riot only becanfe it
_ belongs to you to be acquainted with the
appropriation of your money that was en
-5 • trullcd to us as your agent 3, but likewise
;s ! to give vent to feelings of gratitude that are
! engraven on our minds, for the generous
iu ' and spontaneous supplies deposits d in our
hands, at a moment when our thoughts were
is deeply engaged to find out ways and means
f, '! to afford relief to about fix thousand diftreff
ts ed men, women and children, who had be
o- ; come objefts of our care, in consequence of
' having received fuppcit from the sum grant
_ led by the Legislature, which was entirely
> i expended by the eighth of Oftober: At
v- ' this junfture we called on our fellow-citi
_ zenSj and were answered with that noble
ve ness of spirit whiqji charafterizes cur court,
nt try, by receiving iu cafli upwards of twenty
V thousand f.ye hundred dollars, cxclufive of
ii- I three hundred and thirty five barrels, and
f t t sixty hundred, three quarters and fifteen
pfoando, in bagSibf vv'ieat, rye, buck.vhtat, &irt
ci:d iodinn meal; befidv'J potatoes arH fit".- w ", l
dry otKtr l.inds of proviilon : aided by the
above, and affivled by a number of refpe&a- rlf> r
ble inhabitants of the city, northern liber- ftck.
ties, and Southwark ; we were enabled to ' f''- 1
continue relieving, by weekly donations, a- p 1 "
bove thirteen hundred persons, chiefly heads j y j
of families, opprefled by poverty, sickness foun
and distress, and to give employment to a- wen
bout'fix hundred men on the roads ; who if 1
Hot provided for in that manner would, in
all probability, have been, from dire neceffi- 0 j- {
ty, compelled to de&end to meant injurious and
to.t'uemfe'i*es and to the corarYiunity. fuel;
Thus have we endeavoured to explain to "
you, in some mcafure, the inapner we ex-
pended your money -entntifted to us until a
bout the ifUh 111 ft. at whiih tiife an exami- | <•
nation of our funds tock place, Siud the, bal- I caul
ance found to be but two thoufand,dollars, j r ''- tc
After making appropriations for the pur- i
clwfe of five hundred cordi of wood, and f( ; j.
l'.rteen- hundred bushels of potatoes, for th< the
purpose of meeting the diftre(Tes of-the poor bav
in the more inclement feaion.
At tin's time we were called on by an as
sociation of young women of great refpec- j*. T
tability and known philanthropy, who have xv«:
been for fereral winters employed in reliev- vpr
ing without partiality the fnfFering poor
particularly of their own sex ; .paying no Ju <
regard todiflance weather or fittiation ; not via
doubting but it would meet with your ap
probalion, aud be ss agreeable to you to be «d' '
informed of their praife-wortby vcqneft, as
it '.vas to us hy having it in our power to
grant five liundr'ed dollars and ten bar-» rhc
rels cf flour, at a time when «e had conclud- pea
ed to suspend the supplies as our fellow-ci- c '
tizens had returned home and employment | '
was attainable ; yet there might oe nume- t |, ;
rou« cases wherein this worthy female focie- f m r.
ty might indulge themselves in visiting the he
mansions of distress and thereby give relief
to many, whose situations would never have
been otherwise known. • V ; t
Although we have the aoove balance be- Qui
fides wood, potatoes, and flotir, we fear it nt
will be foarccly fufficient to mrst the nume
rous wants of the inhabitants durinrr the.ap- J '
, . . 01 ;o\l
proachtng winter. w j.
Having been as brief as pofiible in giying equ
you a detail of our proceedings, a more obf
minute one we should be willing to afford by cx f
a conference with any persons who may feel
themselves interested in the expeaditure of till
the money, &c. entrusted to our care ; or liei
are desirous to obtain information for the del
purpose of improving by our experience, "j'
for the advantage of fuffering humanity in
future. For this purpose a' reference to the „„ y
minutes of our proceedings may be had at he<
any time, oh enquiring of the members. vei
. Thankful we are that vrt have been aided hl(
by some, fupplfed by you, and dire&ed by
Providence to give comfort to the mourner,
bread to the hungry, and consolation to the me
diftrefl'cd widow and fatherlefs. a" 1
Robert Whartm, Samuel I'/hee'er, ""j
Edward Garriguti, John Wagner, ' *'
Gforge Krels, George Ingles, ° io
J%'m James, Robert M'MuJlin, 10 ,
Israel Israel, William Linnard. CI
Tbanif-i Savery, 48
Commtffloner's Office, Old Court Hoitfe, cx
Philadelphia, Nov. 24, 1797.
far tie GAZETTE of lie VKITP.T) STA%F.S. P
(Continued from our Gazette of acthinft. ) f»
, Mr.Fenno. ' U
As an .additional proof of the poflibility of U,
vegetable exhalation producing n contagious fe- f, t
ver I may adduce the faiSl uientioned Dr. t h
Rogers in his account of the epidemics ofCo k, s ri
of a malignant"fever that swept away a great te
many of the (Indents of VV'adham College | pro- f)
duced" from the putrefadlion of a vast quantity r (
of cabbages thrown into a heap out of the lev- T
eral gardens near the oollege " Lancili relates, r n
that one end of Rome was nearly .UfolateU m
by the effluvia of some rotten hemp, thai, lay ot
in tho neighborhood. " Fourteen men out of V f
Gxteen, perilhei by a inalignart fever, a few
' years ago, at the island of Tortola, from tht rt
effluvia of some putrified potatoes which were
taktaogt of the hold of a Liverpool velTel." hi
The effluvia fays Dr- Zimmerman from a lit- cc
. tie heap of flax, has been known to occaGon a t h
malignant fever, which prov«d fatal to the w
' family, in which it firft began, and afterwards c
1 spread its contagion thro' a whole country." b(
(Rush's works, vol. 3, p TJ4-) pi
c Is the investigation which this ftdijefl under- |,i
I in the winter aft«r the epidemic of 1 f c '
t ftir.e of the abeve fitJls were adduced to prove ct
the point again contended for, and which is
now corroborated by m4ny additional ones. t |i
Drs. Currieand his roadjntor Cathrall however, IX]
1 anlwered them by obfenfing " none of the ««-
- thoritiiS were qtu'ified to dfcern the connexion f e
1 between cause and efftHJ' but it. ii presumed e ,
1 that the refpedabie number of facls from t .
■- authors of the firft flanaing in medicine, be- ; i
fore mentioned, will convince every one of the [,
truth of the occational contagious nature of dif-
eases .fifing from marshy exhalations. It is „
" true we fee thonfands of cases of remittents, and ,]
- intermittent*, in this country, which are not t ]
- cental;. oils but this no more proves the noti-exif- n
tenre of contagion in them sometimes, than t |
the freedom from disease after visiting a person
ill with the late epidemic, proves it not to have ti
been propagated in the fame The truth ,
" upon this lubjffl is, that it merely requires a ( j
h certainJlAtt of the air, or ef our ewn bodies, j ;
to make theleifevers contagious or not. This\
y onjtiiuticn cf the has been rvticed
[t by all the writers upon epidecnics since Hippo
ie crates; artd is frequently mentioned by the stc
-1 curate Sydenham. Dr Lind, (of Maflar) one of
the most obfervinj physicians of Great-Britain,
e has recorded the influence of the particular state (
" e ot' the air, in the produflion and continuance
is of remitting and intermitting fevers iu the yoar
ir 1765 : they were not remarked f;9 be propagat
-e cd I'V contagion, and yet we hr.vc seen that the
|S remitting fever he mentions to have preyailedat
!- Cadiz, was highly contagious.
Thisconftitution of tke air doe? not alirayi de
;- pand for its efleA, upon the ferfible qualities of
>f heat, moiflure, or drynefs. It fomttiniej hap
t_ pen*, hat tbel'e ejrcumltsnces do r*t produce that
change upoh oifrafts, winch it is w. 11 known, they
co.nimorly do; and heitcv the error into which tna
ny people qre led, r when on the appearance of an
i" epidtmic, they iri-.jiiediateiy try to refer it-to the
S- preceding, ot exiflicgflate of theeivments.
A medical gontlcrnan of Hartford has rercrded
in Dr. Eayloy'a ac.counf of J-he " Dect fiver if Wcw
y_ Ycrkin ItQ.fS a remarkable prouf ot the noxious
power of putrid vegetables, in txeiting fever."
id Soii-etinie in the month of September 1 wa f called
:n to visit a young man about 18, in a Lar.ily in the
Sfirtt of the town. lie ws« violuutlyi attack"! g] n
with niofi el tin", chara&eriftic fymptonis of the
i'o-.v fever Ai>do r fribeil by Uiifli. ih- nest (iAy
"a fcccrid was taken in the f. :ik' manner, anu on the
morning of the- third day ib'ce mote ware tak-n
flck. i hi« led me to fufpefl some particular cause.
1 frarcbed lor it in vain at tin* time. The next 1
morning, on palling through thf kitchen. I smelt (
fomt thing very offtnflve, wh;ch none ol the farm- f
lv had noticed. On opening the cellar doer, I rr>
foetid it proceeded from the cellar. Two perfon<
wen' down to rju'r.ir.c, and found in one enrnvr of Br
a fn: dl tight rood, a quantity of 'Jur.e cabb.igcj,on f : v
which the fu- had shore ah ;ut three hour-; i i the j
day. They had rotted, aiu',fa.nk down into a lump
of pluriftiSioii. They run a flick under them,
and lifted them up. and there immediately ifiued
fticli an irtoVruble flench, as obliged them inftar.t
]y to leave the cellar. A vomiting was brought on g]j
at once which 'laltad.nearly an iiour. No other
person in the fam'ly was«aken afterwards ; and
ihofe who weir already seized, ail recovered t '
" Here was the fame difeaf«, excited by the fame Br
eaufe which produces it elsewhere, and that
<ictcfled. Vi hy may we notfuppofe, thai if this
circusViJhmce had taken place fa a thickly inhabited
n> ic;hbori!'.tod, prer ared hy predisposition. and aitj
fi by all those causes which generally exist during
the hot fuiifo?! iu populous piaces, that it would
have fprcad with the fame rapidity it did in New
York or in 1 hiladelphia ?"—lt may be answered,
that the conjeifure appears highly rational: l'lia
immediate rcmeval of the noxious cause in the a-
S*'rr iaSanee. the thin (late of population, aad
wart of correlpondtng eon(V;utior. of th* air, fa- .
voratje to the propagation of the conragiods efflu-jj 1 )
via, weretht c:u.'e> to which the cefTjlion of t'ie I Clt
fever in this f.iiiiily niay be ascribed ; but the pro- | ers
duf.ion of thisfn-er, !": ews the aiSivity o. the ef- ari
via from putrid vegetables. . ' J
Th« identity of the autumnal remitting- fever of i
all vapm cliteetes and feafonr, with the fever gen- ■ an
eral'y denominated yellow, has already been jhewn | 111'
hy quotations from the writings of phyficans up- jth
"r\ the difeapf of the \Vtft Indies. l)r. Currie, in j
the year 178;, er.t*rtaircd the farr.e idea, a« a.) |
pear* by thf following extraifl from his " Acccfnnt j
of the ilifcafts cf I't Vnt-d Stain " p. 390. " Ihe | 1 '
: greater yeilmvr.rfs of the skin appears to bethetw. ve
jty circumjlante in which it (yeUou\trHer ) diflu- from bJ!
the bilious remittent# of hot climates, or -jery hot re
feafint ef any climate. Dr. Lining himfelf, though
he confidii sit as a fpecics of pe?i!ence, fays the *''
negroes were exempt from it, though expefed as
much at the whites, and that those who Were con- P.
vyedto the country with it, never communicated
ic.tothofu with whom.l hey had communication."
But we find, during tIT? late epidemic, very differ
• lot fcirtiiwe'nn tntirtained by Dr. C. In the Oa
ictte of theUeited States, OAober 11 (letter to
Mr, Wytkoop) he fays, '• If wc compare its (yel
low fever) leading and chara£eriflic fymotoms
with tbofe of the tilitut remitting fever in its mod _
equivocal and dangerous form, as well as with the
okfcrv:«ions of ail the citizens th*; have written
expressly cn the fubjeA, the causes "
which give rife to other contagious fevers, iro ftrfen a r
Acquainted •with meJical Jbijtery, and qualified to discern a
the connexion between eaufe and efl*B, can hefitaU: in be
lieving that the disease never baj originated in Phila
delphia, nor ever can be occasioned by putrid vege
table effluvia ; but is always importtd by rtf
fels with sick persons or infected goods on board \
He adds 'hat " the difeafs was generated in «
nny ether paries the United States-os but at
had always been introduced, when it did occur, by 01
▼effels from the Weft Indies, though the seasons fe
had frequently been an hot and dry, and some ta
more so, and the (ireets more replete with putrid p'
vegetable matter than in 1793. Araonj otuher in-
Hancrs of itsliaving-heen imported headduced those
mentioned by Dr .' Lining in Charleston, in proof;
and yet wefindthatheformerly believed Lining was
mistaken is to' the real source of these fevers ;
witness the following extract from " The account
a/ the difcafcs of tbr United States," above men- /
tionod, p. 389 : " Dr. Lining fays, that the yel
low-lever has been four times epidemical in
Charleston, viz. in the autumn of 1731, 39, 45» (
48 ; anil ax none of these were remarkable for
extraordinary heat orniny weather,
that it did not taieits origin from any peculiari- I
ty of thd chtnate or foil, but was imported from it
th« Weft-Indies ; and even afierts, that whene
ver the disease ippeartftJ,it was easily traced to
some person who had, litely arrived from the c
Weft-India illands, where it was epidemical." I'
IV't from a comyirifon of the description which
fie (fives ef the symptoms of this fever, with
that '/ Chalmers, and partieularly
from the more recent obrervations of Dr. Hun- "
ter in the Weft-Indies, I am inclined t J think
Dr. Lining has fallen into a very great er- 1
ror natir: andrab/eof thit disease. J
The eelAaated Lind, of Haflar hospital, appears c
to have fitlleu into a similar error, owing to the
mifreprefcntition of fa<sts hy L)r. Wafren, and
others. He has also recordeil an aerount of the
vellow-fever betoming epide-nie in Phil idcipbia,
In theve.ir 1740, «» ing to some infeiSed appa
rel of a.gentleman who had died of it in Harba
does. These clothes, he fays, being unluckily
hung abroad to be airrd, presently diffufed the
contagion of the fainc ftver over that pait of '
the town, and deftroved 100 persons. [ Ibis
was another of the proofs lately adduced by Dr. '
C. in his letter to Mr. Wynkoop, of the disease j
being always imported.] "It is however at (
present geaera'.ly known.{ for it has been proved j
by the, mofl accurate and usexceptionable ob- t
i'crvations,) that no infeclious disease can he
commumctted without contail, or the near ap
proach to the body of ininfeiied person ; or to
rhe somites orftibftances imbued with infeiftious
matter or morbific miafinata."
Thus we find, in 1789, Dr. C. entertainsd
fentimentt which he now fayj,cannot be espous
ed by any " quajifed to discern the connexion be
tzvten cauft and effect and the fa£t is, that
■ the former were right, and the'latter wrong.
la confluence of the astonishing improvements
• ;hat have been made ir. medicine, in the eourfe
' f the last twenty years, it is no uncommon
I thing for medical gentlemen to renounce falfe
' theories, (except by some who suppose a dimi
- nuticn of dignity is eff«aed by acknowledging
1 the pofiil>illty of their having been 'ever wrong)
1 but it is a novelty for pbyficians to renounce
' truth and adopt errfr ; mofl men love U) ad
vance it> science, but the above inPmct s flftw a
1 dil'oo'fuion to retrogade, which i» a finally afton
. ifhing. MEDICUS.
s\
1 E MARINE LIST.
} PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED DAY 8
l Ship Venus, Waddcl, Bristol 62
r Brig Eliza. Haftie, Bourdeaux 66
Neutrality, King, London 137
e Schr. Triton, Myers, Snowhill 5
t Fortitude, Taylor, New York 6 j
Polly, Pendleton, Ditto 6
( Maria, Bur Vows, 1 Ditto 6
!. Kitty, Smith, . Ditto 6
t Trimmer, Duly, N. Carolina 28
y Rambler, White, Ditto 14
Sloop Favorite Packet,Stevenfon.Charlcf-
ton, S. C. II
Mxiccry, Nantucket 14
:d Sally, Nichols, New-York 7
w CLEARED.
Brig Abigail, Brown., . Portsmouth
Id Stlir., L)diaSnd Pollv, fenkins, Boston
;c Ann Et.d/Mary, Jcliufton, Alexandria
Sloop Oiorge, Geev, fcio.sv
Robert*, Bright, B'Rv'?.a-nj|
Dolphin, rfait, LeogvW-J
Laura, Barker, NdOt»c»4ft
Eliz-i, Bnrnnrd,
The Ship Birmingham Packet, Kiliey#
from Havre, and' Barque Mars, Tovvk-r,
from St. Übes, are arrived in the river.
The fliip Roba & Bet fey, Nimmo, frota
Bristol, blown out of the Delaware, is in* (
rived at Norfolk, and will proceed to Phil
adelphia, to discharge her cargo.
New-Turk, Nov. 25.
Arrived. days.
Ship Cleopatra, , Lisbon 9J
Caledonia, , Liverpool Bis.
Bark Eliza, Africa
Brig Little George, Howley, New Of
leans
By this day's Mai-L
BOSTON, November 20.
By capt. Giant, who arrived here yeftef
day in 41 daysTrom Amsterdam, we have
the-jneans of of announcing,from theauthor.<
ity of the American consul rt-lident in that
city, that the thtee American commiffion
crs, to the republic of Fiance, had ftfely
arrived at Paris—that .they were received
with every mark.of respect and politehefi—
and that t!»ere was nat the smallest doubt of '
iheir feyling the ihifundei'llanding between
the two countries, to the fattsfa&ion of the
j federal government.
Capt. Grant, from Amsterdam, informs,
' that the Dutch fleet confißing of 36 fail of
J vcfiTels continue blockaded within the Texc!
by admiral .Quacan, whose squadron by the
reinforcements sent him then amounted to
37 &il.
Prices of American STOCKS in London, re*
cAvt ti ly the latejl arrivals.
6 Per Cents, - - 8p aBl pr. ct.
3 do. doJ - 50 *
Deferred, do. - - 56
5* Per Cents, - - 80
Bank Shares, -
* # * " A Subfcribcr" in answer to "A'
„other Subfcribcr," and " A lover of Laws
jid Freedom" will appear to-morrow.
THE, SHIP
"XK COMMERCE,
Captain Ricuar» Waistcoat,
rom Liverpool i» now discharging
at Hamilton's wharf, near the Drawbridge, where
owners of goods on freight, will please speedily to
fend their permits. Said vrflVl will dire&ly alter
take in freight on very low tertns for Boston. Ap
ply to the captain, or to
Jfaac Harvey, jun.
No. 5, South Water Street.
A few tons efftone.'or sand ballast wanted.—
Apply as above. .
november 27 ____ §tot.
Chocolate and Mustard,
of a superior quality manufa&ured,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; fbelled or
pearl Barley; Philadelphia Porter, Ueer,
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale 5
. London Porter ; red. Port and Lisbon Wine,
Iwitahle.far exportation or home coafumption.
The highest pi ice given for Mullard-Seed.
Also forfait, A quantity of Booking and'
common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of
Fuiiiam, Shawls, &c, for file by
JOHN HA WORTH,
1 No. 98, fjutli Front-llreet..
' ntv n- '■'■ killt IJ
LOST,
" TN thia City, on Sunday, 16th November, 1797,
• J. a red Moroeeq Pocket Book, containing 7 note*
s of toREA» & Pirate, as tallows,viz.
r fohn Duffleld's, for 44> dollars, 73 cents.
1 vWJlfean M'Laws 435 37
; George W y's, 177 l 9
, John Diwlts, II 9°
liaward Clayton's, 60
l)o. 3°. .
f Do. 47 •
e One 10 dollar Bank of Pennlylvanianote—an of
f der upon Walter Franklin, Esq. in favor of Charle*
Read, and fuudry other papers that can be of no
use but to the owners. .Payment of the as refold
■ notes of hand being ftop'd, a rewatdof fifteen dol-
C lars lh?ll he piidto the perfin or persons bringing
! said pocket book with the aforefaid' coßtents to
1 Read and Pierie, N°- 6 J. Cbefuut flreet and no
queftioraS aflccd.
c novcmbcri7 *cod3t.
" s Wants a place,
\ S a Wet Nurse, a yning woman, who can
d ±\ be well recommended. Inquire in Eleventh
f. flreet, near Race-street. Nov. 27.
*eo(lrw _
A journeyman Hair-Drefler,
ts "\T riio is sober and steady, and nnderftands
"e W his business, may have immediate em
>n plovment, on application to GEORGE AB
fe BOTT, No. 9, Chefnut-ftreet. n0D.27.
i- eodiw\ ''
r) Mordecai Lewis,
" HAS FOR SALE,
At his Store, No. 15, Great Dsc'c-ftreet,
n a . 250 bales of Bengal Goods
Containing Baftas
Coffas
_ Gurrahj
'• Moragugung;es
Tookzry
Check and Stripes
idano Handkerchief*
y 1 Mamoody
52 Cilicoes
gg U boxes Irifii Linens v
I do. Diapers
37
• 7 do. Umbrellas
5 40 certifiers Java 'Sugar
6 ji Lags black Pepper
6 > I' 6 do Eafi Indi •. Ging*
£ 100 calks roll Brimstone
f 7- pipes Maiicira Wine
57 calks Gin
2o .Vquantity ot focathing Copper ar.d Kr.iln.
14 r no.
~ Landing,
14. From on board the {hip Edward, at V/alnut
rtreet Wharf,
' Loudon particular Madeira Win*?,
ith of a filler.or quality, For Sate by the fulfcriVr.
ton ' ' ■* Robert Andrew.
Iria nevemter J. to:!Canal Lottery-—Mo. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, tfcezoth
in.l. Tickets for>Sale. in this Lottery, at
Severl Dollars, at Wto. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and BroUers Office, No. 64, South Sccond-flrcet—
TjcKets.in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
De'Urs, where check books arc kept lor regiflcr
in«j and examining in these, the City of Washing
ton. No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa-
where tickets may be had in mod of the Lotte
r.rs authorif.d ky law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The business of a Broker, in buying p.pd
fe!!ing all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcounthg Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by Wm. BLACKBURN.
tiovcmber 15. §
From Marseilles.
' THE CARGO
Of the Swcdifh barque Gtiftivus AdolphWs,from
Alarfeilles, confiding of the following Articles,
is difchargin 3 ' at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
sale by the fuhferibers 1 <
BRANDY, well flavored, of a, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hojlhead.
Ditto, in cases
Fvontigniac Wine, in cases of 30 bottles
Olive Oij, of a superior quality, in baficets of 6
and *2i>3i:tes
C-aptrs
O'ives-
Almonds
Verdigresfe
Writing Pjper
Utjiiircllas (Silk) of jB, 30 and 32 inches
'i'j ITeties
Long and Oiort white Kid Gloves for Women
Siik Stockiugt
Ilandkcrch'cls, in imitation of Madrafs
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Cftrich Featjiera
Ribbons"
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder »nd Pomatum
Manna in forts
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN Ic
ROBERT ANDREWS.
September 27. _ eotf
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUN G,
No. ?2, Seeond-ftreet, corn-r of Chefnut-flrect,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large assort
ment of Engli/i, Fren'.b, Latin aid Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Alfa, such elementary books
pn Science, as are generally read in th: academies
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol, 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large umo price 1 dol 75 its.
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, priming, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Palleboards,
sheathing and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other arrtcles, ef
the bed quality, used in tke counting houle, or
public office.
Catalogues of a mifc«llan«>us colle<&i«n of
BOOKS, with tke price cf each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. OA. 14.-—3»w4ir
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front Street,
HAVE FOR SALE,
100 Hogsheads of prime Georgia Tobacco,
ALSO,
jo Pipes of Bonrdeaux Brandy,
10 Pipes of old Port WiiK'
Oft. 17. miotf
Windov Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper♦hm any other fn
theCitv—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to ig by 14,
By the fing-le Box or Quantity, may be had at tbre
ilort of tbe Subscribers, coiner of Arch and Front
lirect.
'James C. Isf Samuel W. Either.
Philadslphia, Juneq, 1797. SI wrnwf[f
Thomas Herman Leupfer,
North Fifth street, #orner of North alley, No. 34,
HAS FOR. SALE,
EXCELLENT red Bourdeaux Wino in calls*<id
boxes, fix years old
White Graves Wine in calks
Ticklen burgs
RufTia Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck
Linen 4
HclEans
Diaper and Table Cloth
Empty hags
Cdremon German Cloth ]
.An afl'ortmentof black coloured Ribbons
Fine German Laces
About twelve tons Rufiia clean Hemp /
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in fmali boxes, for family uTe
Window Glass *19 —law
For itile or to be let on ground
rent, 5
A>valuablc Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of W»l- "
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State- ?
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; these are at n
present two small two story brick houses, and a t ]
number of small tenements thereon. t :
Also, for Sale, a
Two three story Brick Houses c
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-flreet, between Mulberry and Saffjfras S
streets, containing in front on Water street Cf- u
ty-fotir feet, and continuing that breadth ead
ward ninety-five sett, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thcfc houses 'J
ave the conveniance of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and arc a very desirable fitua- l '
tion for a merchant, flour fa£\or,or others who j
may have occasion. for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms „
forcafh. For further infornrtttion apply to the r <
printer. t j
J"ly m&wtf x,
This Day is Publifked, G
BY MefT. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric c and the *
othirr Book fellers, ' ai
Pricfc One Dollar and twenty-five cencs,
Elegant'*] printed on iVtrve paper, and Hot- e '
prejed, #
By John iTiompfon, 0 I
A COMPARATIVE VIEWOF bi
The Constitutions
Of the several States with esich other, and with L
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables, d.
the prominent features of each Conf'titution, and
claflingtogether their most important provisions,
under the several heads of admhiiftration ; with
Jlotes andObfervations. '» ,
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of Soulh-Carollr.3, ce
(, h. D. and member o£ the Congrcfs of the fai
United States. da
Dedicated to tha People of the United State*. tri
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa- frc
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar. fai
February 6 mwf ph
[. j French Circulating Library.
~h j JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GiIANG
at I "0., 11' 1 Vv'iilnut fuect,
>r TNFORIVIS those who vyi'h to ur so the only
* £ means of becoming pcrfeil in the French Lan
rgn guage, |* v .at he has juA: opened hi-* Library, con
fj&ing of upwards of 1250 volumes, the heft cal
culated to afford either ufefn. inflrudlion, or pica
)a_ sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
te _ of the Library, riwy be seen at every book-feller's
j ie in town.
n. b. All frcm and into the French,
pd I EI ifh and Spanish Languages, executed with ac
q enrac> and dii'pafeh. eoim nov.is.
LAWBOOKS, , -
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
M 5f ft R ICE, Bookfillcrs,
No. 16, South' Second, and No. 50, Market street,
| I AVE just received hy the late arrivals from
X jl London and Dublin, their spring importa
,m tton, confiding of a variety of thebtcifc and most
s > approved law Books, which, added to those alrea
or dy on hand, forrnsthe moflextenfive coUedlioncv
* er offered for Ca!e in this country. They thei efQre
of beg leave to notice, that from the uature of thsir
conne&icnsin Dublin, they are enabled to feuVUh
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowest prices. The following arc ainong the lateli
' 6 j publications.
Vdfey, jtiu'ri Reports in Chancery, 2 Yv!i,
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwicka ; Fioyer's Procters
Pra&ice in the Ecclesiastical Courts; Barton's
*' Treat ife on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's Pra&ice of
the Court of King's Bench in Pcrfonal A&ioas, a
parts cc.-nplcfc ; Ward's Law of Nations; Cruue
on Uses ; .modern Reports, I 1 vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rice espedt t9 receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6fch vol. complete of
Purnford and Eafl's Report*, the 2d part of Oil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June a 6.
•t he History of PennTylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the preli, and will bp publilhed,
with all convenient expedition, bv ZtCHA-
Riah Pou lsok, jun. No. 80, Chefntit-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where lubfcriptiops will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposals, until the
work is ready f»r the fubkriben.
July I*. *aw»f
'• THYs DAY WAITKJ3USHED,
And for Cale by 7MM4S DOBSON, at the
Stolie House, No. 41, south Second street,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDSST OPEWKD.
GonUlling ol a variety of Miscellaneous Piece, for
« the inftruAion and' amusement of YOWWG PEJt
liONS—SixVolumeihandforaely primtedand bo*nd
in two volumes, price Two Dollars. «
The variety and excellence of these pice si arc
d such, tin* the book needs only to be known to be
», universally efleemed on« »f the most valuable pub
licatinns th t can be put into thu hands of TOUT.'
>f ptrfom.
r " Delightful talk to rear the tender thotght,
To teatk the young idea he.w tu (hoot,
To pour th« freOi inflruAion o'er the mind,
d To brs&theth' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The generous purpofc in th* glowing breafl."
T HOMfON.
1 August 14. RXwffW
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON, at the Stoat House,
No. 41, fo-ath Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between fevaml YoungLadiei,oa improving and in-
F terefting fubjcfls.
Translated from tke Ditch of Madame dt Cumtcn
with alterations axd improvements,
H Printed anfine paper, andntatly btunJ,
' Price ant duller.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
t*!e» «f mtra.rdinary di(lr«f», «res desperate or
t artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
. wbich it would be F*r the kanbi ef youug ladies to
be igrv this little book cemos forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of ipcidenti, not ex
ceeding th« bounds of real life, the prefer, becaufi
. elegant and natural dignity and imptrtcnee of th« female
AaraSter is exhibitea in an interelting f®ut of vievr,
, andprtfencs czamplca of real an J attainable excel
lence.
I The publisher was so much plaafed with the pern
fal,that h: was persuaded he should d» a pleating
ferviee to th« community by fcnding it mi o circn
lafftin. A»fuft 24 —raiV4w
Act Isying Duties on Stamped Vellum
Parchmeht and Paper.
A TEW copies of the above ait may be had a)
he Office of the Sazette of the United N«.
,19, Chefiiut-IVrcet. July i<j.
Lancaster, Harrijburgh Carli/le,
Sbtppenjburg and Snnbury
STAGES.
THIS piiblic are requcfted to take notice, that
the partnership which lAs f«r some aim« fub
fnled betwesH Mathi w Slough of Lancaster, and
William 6eer, is now dilalved: but, not ae M.
Slough infimatest* the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je& from M. Slough to W. 3eer, dated the 19th
December kS. a recltsl of which is Hot how deem
ed neceffaTy. Any gentUman who wilhes to be
mor.- circumstantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the peraial ef M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfectly jaftifiabje in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stag* conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf'
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleafcd to confer on the firfl effort in
this business, Vfilliam Geer, in conjunction with
MefTrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
co pfo(pcute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and difpatclrthat a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can pnflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided I
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to t
render the pallage fcfe and rommodiaus, inform 1
thof« wnu wilb to patronise- and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their leats at 1
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse, 1
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday (
and Friday, to proceed to Laacaftcr, Warrilburg,
Carlisle and Shippenlburg. The fare as hitherto t
1
For the further accomm.dation of the public, I
a Stage will start every Werinefday from the house f
of Samuel -Elder, in Harrilburg, arrive at Snn- t
bury in Northumberland county, every Thitrfday, f
and return from thcoce and ai'rrva at Harrifburg \
every Saturday, so that passengers deftincd for t
Lancafkr or Philadelphia, .-aay p*>ceed on Xoa- I
WILLIAM GEER. 't
Lancaster, Jan. 17, 1797- . '
N. B. This Line at' Stages starts from the j b
hotife of William Fei rae, in Lar-cafter, on every
and Saturday mprningtat 6 o'clotk, pro- j I
cetdi-i}~ to the westward; and from the house of I 0
Mr. Samuel Eldat in IlarnfDurg every Wednef- n
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in £hipp nlfcurg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the *'
fame routine daily as in its tour from Phiiadel- C
pMa. ni'.vf [ a
ibe pritttrs tff f.VU.'itfA r.-jttrJ-J
t* infrrl thefyiie-yir.g Obfsryttt.tns M libtir
pap:rs, by winch the public <vitl be fervid,
. as w. II as thiir obedient servant.
n . B. LINCOLN, Super's,lUnilant of
n . JUgbt-l£jU[es, State of
i! "D Y order of ataies, a Light House
a- been ereiSed at the Clay m Cape
ue ! the lamps in which are to be lifted on
,'s the 15th inff. The light house is ereflfid on,
I land elevated about t;o feet, which with the c
h, levatiou Lantern makes the
c- 100 feet above high water mjrk. 111 order that
this Light may be distinguished from the So,lon
and other Lights on our coait, an Eclipfer is e
reilcd. which will revolve around the Lamps
pnee in 80 fccont|s so that the light will bejiear
ly excluded from the eye of the approaching
et, mariner about thirty fecsnds, in one revoluti
im on of the.flclipfqr. To render the benavolent
:a - designs of Congress as sxtenfively uf.ful as pyf
aft libje, tftc Marine Society in Bofion, by a large
:a- Coismittet; from their body, whose views have
v- beta leconded by others, have taken such dil
re tances and bearings as thev thotigVt neceiTary ;
:ir wfijch obfervatiotjs giving light and fjfety frt
ill added for the benefit of all interested—and are
ry as follows — :
VelTels outward bund, from Boftnn Light
house, and would wilh to fall in with Cape-Cod
-*■ the course is E. S. E. diflance 15 leagues, thence
ts leagues to the Light hotife. Wiitrn up with
the L'ght-houfe and it bearsS W-2 leagtiesdif*
' tance, you then fleer SS E which will carry
yo% out of the south channel.
Veiftls inward bound, and fall in with the
back of Cape-Cod, bring the Light to bear S W
1 leagues distance, then you may steer WWW
r __ for Boftoo Ligbt-Houfe.
0 f If you you would wiih to go into Cape Cod
j. harbor, you may ketp the shore aboard about
0 f a mile distant, wliere yau will have 10 fathoms
water. Thtra is a bar lies tfFthe back of the
Cape, about half a mile from the shore.
vVben up with Race-point, which is very
bold, and about three leagues to theweftward ef
the Light-house, aad maybe known by a num
ber ot fi(h houses on it, from 1 to 3 miles to
the foutWard of is what is called
t, Herring Cove, wherj you may have good an
sharing half a mile from the (hare, the wind
y, fro™ EtoNNE in 4or even 3 fathom water,
li bound into Cape Cod haibor, your course
from Race-pMnt t6 Wood end, is S S E 6 miles
distance, bnn£ tiie light to bear E by N and
run for it aUoiit two, miles, you will then he
le c ' <a . r end —then you must steer N E
until the light beats E by S—then run N W
f«r the harbor, un<l you have from 4 to 3 1-1
fathoms water, where you have good anchor
ing, the Light then will bear E by S 1-1 S 5 or
>r 6 miles diftar.ee.
t- In running from th; Race point to Wood
id End— you pafa the Black Land or Hum
mucks, you will come up with a low faody
re beach, which forms harbor ; extending be
twarn 2 and 3 miles to Wood-end, which is
to be in the night—lt is
'i- very brld—yon will have 15 fathom water
within half a mile of the shore.
In beating into Caje-Cfld harbor, you mi*ft
keep the eattcrn short aboard, until you get in
to ? fathom water. Stand no farther to the
weflward than to bring the light ts bear E by 3
as there is a long spit et sand runs off from the'
wefttrn shore, which being very bold, you will
have 11 fathom water within a flonec throw of
shore.
Ib cafe it blows so hard that you cannot beat
in the harbor, you will have good anchoring
without, from leto 15 fathom water.
VefGrls in Hollon bay and wouM wiih to put
a'vay fs»Cap'; Cod harbor, must endeavor to
fail in wi*h the Race; If in the night, an 3 you
" eaanot fc-e the land, you must bring tl!e Light
to be£r E by N and run for it until you have
foundings in 14 or 15 fathom water, then steer
north calk until i&e flight bears E by S then . un
* in N W for the harbor.
j At full and change, it is high water ofTßacc
0 Point at 10 o'clock and 43 minutes. VVflels in
leaving Cape Cad bound toßofton, should cal
culate the tide, as the flood lets strong to the
'• south weft.
!, JOHN FOSTER WILLTAMS,
r, NATHANIJEL GOODWIN, f from the
I- JOHN CRUET,; C Marine
JOHN HILLS. J Society
THOMAS BARNARD, A branch Pilot
» for the port of Bofion
' . SOLOMON COOK, \ Residence at Pro-
ELIJAH NICKERSON, ) vincctonCapeCcd
At a Meeting of (he Marine Society, held at
1 Concert Hall, on Tuesday 7th Nov. 1797—the
above Report of its Cotamittee was read and
approved and ordered to be pnblifhtd.
• By trder of Ok Society,
THOMAS DENNIE, President.
WILLIAM FURNESS, See'ry.
' City of Walhington.
S CHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
t For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dv. cl'.ing-houfe »c,ooodoil4*=,
i & cash are 50,00*'
I ditto 11,000 & cast 15,00 a 40,000
; 1 ditto 15)000 & aafh 15,00 a 30,000
1 ditto 10,900 & cifb 10,000 10,000
1 1 ditto 5,000 k cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cafit 5,000 10,000
1 calh prize of ro,ooo
1 do. 5,000 «ach, are • 10,000
10 do. I,ooo' - - 10,00 c
do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. too - - 10,000
1 >0 da. jo - - 10,000
400 do. »5 - - io,ooo
■,OOO do. ao - ao.ooo
15,000 do. 10 - 150/300
Prizes.
33,161 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,00#
N. B. Tofvr<Sur thofc"who may take a quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars wtll be
th: Last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but on z :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
irtonsy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, wiii
be received for anynumber not less than 30 tick
'ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen ef
the private buildings to be ereiled in tke City of
Walhington—Two beautiful designs are already
ieleited for the entire fronts ®n two of thfe poblit
squares j from thefs drawings it ispropofrtd to eredl
twocentreand'qnrjoiiser buikdings.aj soon aspof
fihle aftert'i'j lottery isfold, and to convey tlmm,
when to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner delcribed in the scheme for the Hiitel
Lottery. A nctt deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray theneceffary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Uirivetf'ty, to
be cieiSled within the city of Wafnington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prises, are held by the President and two Direfl
ors of the Bank of Columbia, anil are Valued at
more than haif the nir-«unt of the lottery.
SAMUEL HLODGKT.
,>5, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of jante* Weit & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Oilman, Button : of John Hepkin?, Richmond :
! and of Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry. mwf
NOTICE.
r |" I HE partnerfliip between John Instone and
J. James Bacon, under the firm of Intone and
Bacon, is this day dissolved by mutual confertt.—
AH persons who ft;nd indebted to la d firm are
requested to make Immediate payment oT their
refpeiftivc accounts, to John Sktrin,
burger's wharf, who is duly authorised to rec.eive
the fame ; and all persons having: any demands a
gainst the fa*id firiW arc defirtd to bring in their
accounts immeVliitc : y uihlm for fettlemerit.
John In/lone,
James Bacon.
novrmbrr -o. eodtf
The PhiladelphirP, Jiifiuti, and "1 uciertvn
MAIL STAGE.
proprietors be* Icq ve to inform the that
1 /ley have eJlaWfced a Stage betwrni P&ififVeJpßSii,
A eft on, Batflo, Hampton, Spce twill, ji»d 2&artka Fur
nace, Wading River flitting mill,.and thetoivurf Tutk
ertorr, in Nfiv-Jerfey, to go once a week, and are provi
ded with good borfes, a comfortable carriage, and a care
ful driver, for the conveyance of the mailfoa([{tigers, and
goods.' Tie Stijre will fart every Thursday, ci 10
o'clock, A. lid- from Mr. Daniel Cooper's Ferry, arid
lodge that night at joel Bodine's, at Longacouiing ; and
on on Friday, at 6 o'clock, P. As. arrive at Caleb F.-
vans's, inkeeper, in Tuckerton, diflant from the city 54
miles, (from the Atlantic 6, and from the Eaf Grou/trtg
Plains 7 miles J -where are good accommodation) for tra
vellers, and where are comtftod'toiis andfafe pajfage boats
provided to convey passengers to Capt. William War
rington s house, on Tucker's If and, adjoininrng the At
lantic, 11there are gOed accommodations, and a convenient
place to bathe ; the fpdrtfman who tijif&cs to regale bimfrlf
izitb fowling dndffhing, At ay at this place be highly gra
tified, there being at alrncjl every fcafon of the y&r fowl
aidffb in abundance.—The Stage on its return, Jlarts
from the of orefaid C, Evans's in Tucker ton, every Tutf
day, at to'oloek, A. M. brsatfaßs at John Bodine's, at
Wa ding River Bridge, lodge that night at Lnngacoming,
and at 1 o'clock, P. Ad. oti W edtiefday, arrfoe at the
afortfai-d Cooper's Ferry. It isjrefuaed thai no route
an equal diflance will be left expenftve, or forHifb the tra
veller with a greater variety of amufemor.t, as be fill
not only have a p leaf ant fail to the atlantic from Tucker
ton, but have the curicftly of feeing oh the road thither a
number of capital furnaces and forges, and one f'lUing
mill, in complete order, and at work ; gentlemen, too, who |
are iiwirs, cr of ary of the aforefaid iron works,
arc soli cited to encourage andfupport this jftcge (by zrk cfr
tbey can be so -well accommodated) the continuance of which
toill much Jcpendbt their aid. The rates of paffengirs
and baggag* are as follows : Fir a frajfehger from the
aforefaid Daniel Cooper's Ferry to Tuckerttm, including
(4 lb. oj baggage, Two Dollars ; ftr way paffehgers
per mile, Four Cents—lso lb. of baggage equal to apaf-
Pojlagr of letters, neztfpapets, c. tvill be
agreeably to la^iv.
N. 2. The piuit crofts front the Old Ferry.
THOMAS IVARDLE & Co.
Tusker I OH, Sept. aB. Ofl. 5. —%aictf
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the comer ol Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, rvoty Tut/Jay, Tturfihj, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock; i« the irorning ; arrives at Ha
ver the firft day, at Snowhlll the fetortd day, at
Northampton Caurt House the third day, and ou
the mornipg of t'no fourth day the pafengers find
a late and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northimpton ferry,
every Tqpfdiy, Thursday and Saturday, and the
Stige starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Moa«ay, Y.'ednefday and Friday ;!pats up at Snow
Hill the firft might, at Dover the id oi(ht,and ar
rives in Philadelphia iu the evening of the third
day.
Thediftftice on this routfc, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, it So miles less than on any stage roiite
between those places .
Too muehcainot befaid in favor of the read,
which is nioft excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
psirenjer, who, after having performed this riute,
win fay ;hat ho ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
Angnft 11. dim, eotf.
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHER,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & 00.
< No. 40 South Second street,
fPrice 31 Cento]'
A View of the Cau/es and Confequsri
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Eus-kinb.
May 15 §
STATt TRIALS.
Sold b W. Yocno, Bookfelle», Ne. J*, South Se
cond-ftree'-,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
the impcachir. _nt, trial,and acquit-
VJ al of FrancisHopkinfan, Judge of tbs Court of
Admiralty, anifjohn Nicholfoo,Comptroller Gen
eral—ln onc larjje S vo. toI. Price, in boaais, 3
dollars.
W. Yoong has for file, a general affortmeutof
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the paek
egc, well afiorted,*nd eatitled to the dtuwhauli if
aipwted. . t July 7—''
For Sale,
That well known place, called Va\ \id£orift's
fre ry,
ON Nefhaminy creek, 18 miles from
ladslphia, on the New York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches: Upon the
prefinifesare a larjje two iloiy stone house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one flory Hone kit
chen, a large frame ftab'e with a good threshing
floor, and i'bme out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice Hoofr. On
this place is a moil elegant situation fora gentle
rnail's feat, commanding a "view of the Nefham
ir y to its jundtio;* wiih the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jerfev
of one half the toil received from the liridge.
For terms apply to the SnWcriber,
MOKDE'CAi LEWIS.
Wty 14- iiiwtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. OROOMBRIDGE with imiph pleaf
ureand refjjefl, returns her firrcere ac
knowledgement for theJiberai eflcouragemtnt
(lie has received during four years reiid<nce ia
Philadelphia ; and allures her friend* and the
public, so far from' intending to decline her
school, she ha.s made a superior arrangema,nt for
the more convenient accomtnod. !ori cf lipr
scholars.—Every branch of ufefu) and petite
educatiern,is particularly attendfrd to by Mrs.
Groombridge and masters exceliteg Ln their
refpeiflive profcinoits.
, Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797- .
The lituatie.n is perfeiflly healtky ; and made
more agreeableby an ctienlive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the houTe.
JuJ} Published,
And to be had of Mefff*. Dokfon, Campbell.Rlcc,
Cary, and the other Booki'ellers iu t'la
city,price one dollar, twinty-five cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, .v. p.
June io
Philadelphia, CSt. 13. J
: 1 HE subscribers inform their frisnds a'twl cufto
; mers in town and country, that their stores are now
cpen in the city, and others are daily opening, ar.ii
that from the pre lent appearance ef the prevailing
divider have reason to hope, their friends may
fHort-Iy come to the city with perfect faf.ty. By
several late arrivals, numbers have received freiH
. fttpplies of G00D,3.
• Robert Smith & Co. P. W. Gallaudet & Co.
John Davis Is Co. Sitgreaves & French,
Neill Smith, , George Dob/on,
Wiltberger and Smith, Thomas Ryerfon,
• Alex ihjinrul and Co. T. R. Hardenberg.
■ Jacob ipe rry and Co. John Smith and Co'
Owen Jena. Jones, Thomas Orr,
KeppeleisS Zantziiiger, William Barker & Co.
( Adam Ztintzinger, Thotitas Armat CX Son.
John Fries, J. Miller, jun. and Co.
| Benjamin &J, Jebhfm.
Otfl. 14 /
POYNTELL's
1 Paper Hangings Manufaflory *
No. 70, Chefnut-ftreet,
IVhire he has for Sale,
AVE&Y exteftfWe (lock, of every colour, and
of the most approved patterns, suitable for
every part of a house, with great variety of bor
ders to suit.
~ALSO
A handsome afTortment of the moll faHjiotla&le'
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
very fceft pain Green and plain Blue,
r With Pannel P »pers and a rich variety of Borders.
'Noven Ker i. eo6t
Will be Landed,
Fcom oabciard the ship A dive, Capt. Blair,from
Hanihui^h,
29 baks white Rufiia clean Kejnp '
2 calks Clover Seed
For Sale by \
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
t NortkFifth flrcet, No.
, Jone fl6. . $
; Imported m the fhipM an Chester,
_ • Benjaitin Shtewsll, Matter,
| From Bourdeaux, and for fate by the fubferiber,
I No. ir Walnut street.
, Borti deaux Brandy "J
Iriih market claret in cases ( Entitled t»
' Medoc wine, in do. f", Drawback.
I Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatreyd.
< WHO HAS FOR SALE. '
Snerry V ine in pipes and quarter caOra
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bufhils Liverpool fait.
Aug.j; 4. tut&itf.
i To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(Ij not before dijpdjed of at private /'ale)
Y ( '."riday, the firlt of Dtecmber next, at fix
V-/ o'clotk in the evening, M the Merchants'Cof
| fee H\)ufe, in Philadelphia, Forty Thoufcwd Nipe
1 Hundred and Thirty Nine acres tf LAND;
> now or late in the County of Washingtonj atid Com
monwealth of Pennsylvania, ai\d on the waters of
, Frefli and Wheeling Creeks and Ten Mile Run.—
- These Lands arefertile and well timbered, and wer6
r patenteed early in 17%, eVcept 3700 acres or there*-
r boots, which were patented in 1794. One fourth
of the purchase money to be ptfid at the time of sale,
i * °. r *ke a crtdit of ©ne, two and three months,
will be given, on ihtarefl and good feturity.
1 October ff. 3awtS"
6 To be Sold at Public Vendue,
> (/f not before difpjfcd of at private fate)
, Friday, the firlt day of December, at fii
o'clsek in the evening, at the Merchants' Cofliefc
House, in Philidtlphla, Twenty Six Thousand StC
• van Hu dred »t,d Eighty acirs of LAND, in the
Slate ot New-Voik, benMren th« northern bpuixij-'
of Pcrirtfylvania ana the nciV, or laie,
in the t'ii»ii(Kip« of Hartrdwi and WAre'd, rfnd coun
ty of Obe (o«rih of the p.icJi»(i
money it Jo be paid at tht time of f«le ; for ihe i«-
(lvlne a credit of one, two, and three months will be
given, on intetelf and good, ficurity.
6
Peale's Museum,
THIS valuable repository of the worhtof Na
ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
nn<l enhrge the understanding, is opened daily, A
usual. It flarfls in an airy arid'Healihy fltti.itio»f,
and free Cfom the epidemic that at preferft a(lU6tk
the city; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the greatell fafcty.
As an Aivufement, the (ludy of fiatufe is tht
most rational and pleating : as a Science, the mod
fuV.iwe and inSru&ive. It elerstes tHe'mind aM
expands the heart. They
f " lftum yatwe'.- wwrh can charm, -will 60,/
u llald converse
Many interring additions'have lately been
made to this Muftum : and the feath'eftd tribe",
p containing a variety of the mod rite and beautiful
fubjecSs, is now very advarrtagtoufly arranged.
Waxen Figures, of Men large as life (feme o[them
clils from nature) are here drefTed in their proper
habits, and placed in attitudes of their
refpedive nations. Heri may "be fetfc the North-
American Savage, atfd the Savage of South-Anieri
ca—a laboring Chinese, and the Cbiaefe Gentle
man—the sooty African, ankl the Kamtfehadale—
with some Nanres ot the South Sea Islands. The
immi-nfe variety and intereftitig diversity which
this Mufeuns (offers to th'e view. may befieobMt
cannot be dijfcribed with full effnil.
Price only i-4th of a dotlar.
»eyt. »8. isvtr
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, Nigh-Strest.
GEORGE DAVIS,
TURING bulled for fomt time past in
X) tions ft.tr removing into his prol'ent house, has
been under tkeneceiTTtyof poftponinguntilitMsday
informing the geOtlemjn of the Bar thro"
the limited States, tjiat hisfpring importation of
taw lrooks is now arranged* t:d ready for lale, on
terms that he trulls will entitle him to th&likc pre.
freerce he has experienced for several years past.
Catalogues, combining the moll' varied colltc
tion ever imported i/;to this country, art printed
and Will be delivered oh applieation.
J'T.C 27. MW
Boston Glai's Manufactory.
THE citizens of the United States arc hereby
informed, that the mtnufaflurc of Window
Oafs is now ccmtntv.'cdat the Glaislioufc in Bcf.
ton.
It is reedlcf. to fay any filing of the rxoelle*
quality o| the Boston Glaf», as it is so well known
throughout the United States to be in every rtipeit
greatly superior to any ever Impose J from Erropr,
It will be cut to ar>; size commonly uf'ed ; and
rtjiy be constantly had by applying to Cu.-uii.es F.
at the Glsfs House.* ' --
Orders (top the distant States to tie a Yreffed to
Mr. S.iMt-tx Gore, Court-f;rcet, Boston.
Boston, Sept 30,1797 64—2sw«w
Mcjfrs. Timothy an.t Mafm, Ckarlrfln ;
HVAr and Btytan, Halifax, N. C. Mrffrt. H'US.it
ar.:t O'Connor, Ncrfrfi ; Mr*. £l!u frice, Alcxa,.
AUJfrt. Tunit and Brnea, Baltimore 1 Mr. J* o n
NtwYart ! and Mffrt. Hudftn 5s 1 V»
ford; Mr. Savannah ; a„ /o ~
tie alcve one, a tcwai 6 wed,. Tie «.■«»,/i t , _
•warden to tit Mdiitr.