( 3u?ZttZ of the if Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
1479.]
Advertisement.
PURS UAN rla an Order from the Orphans* Court,
nv til It fold at PUBLIC SALR, at Cranberry, on
Wednesday, the 14 tb day of fun: next, all that valuable
REAL RS'TA TE, late belonging to the Rev. Gilbert
4 f. Snowden, diceifrd, lying in and near Cranberry, in
the county of Mtddlefex, torenfbip of Sontb Brunswick,
Hate of Ntrrv Jersey, upon the lower flage road leading
from Philadelphia to Neiv Tcrk. A very eltgant frame
ho"/l in a beautiful and healthy situation, painted white,
wit') ycnetian window flutters, thirty feet front and
thir'y eight feet dc?p, trvo rooms with a handsome hall or
entr on the firj] floor, three rooms on the second floor and
two 1 11-fuvfbcd garrets. In the rear of the house is an
txte ."it tua-flory building confiding of a dining-room fir
work people, spacious pantries and a large [kitchen, with
ivsry convenience, and over tbefe are three chambers for
To the right is an additional building confiding
<sf a chamber below and a library above—under the whole
mre very fine cellars paved with brick. The house is en
tirdy new and finifbed with tajle. Every room is bung
with bells that lead both to tie kitchen and the ferHunts'
apartments : there is a pump in the yard; and a flone
and brick pavement round the whole Jioufe, which is enclof
ei luitb a handsome railing, with three gates in front.
Tie farm comfifls of one hundred and Jixty seven acres, '
with a proportion of woodland and meadow, under excel
lent ftnte ; a garden with pale fence; a large barn, (ta
ble , carriage-hovfe, cowhouses, &c. all new, and built
in the mfl manner : with a young orchard of 2CO grafted
tress. Nearly adjoining said farm is a lot of Woodland
of thebeft quality, containing 37 acres. Alfa a tra& of
land within seven miles of Cranberry, containing one hun
dred and fifty acres, three-fourths meadow and the red ex-
timber. Ibis will be fold in lots or together, as
•will befl fait the purchafcrs.
1 he payments, one thirdcafh——one third in one year~—
and toe remaining third, one year follonving, with intereu
on the two lafl payments, and approved feeurity.
For further particulars enquire of Nathaniel Hunt,
bjtj.ur Dr. Ralph Lott, Cranberry ; of lfaac Snowden,
at Princeton ; or of lfaac Snowden, Jun. South
Sec end flrett, Philadelphia,
May 2J §CmwftS
To be fold cheap,
To close an adventure,
7 Bales Baftas
1 ditto CofTas
Apply at the Store of
Mordecai Lewis.
May r6 eoiw
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A'magnificeut dwelling-house 20,000 dollars,
& caill 30,000, ire 50,009
1 ditto 15,000 & cast 35,00s 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & caih 15,000 30,000
x ditto 10,000 & caih 10,000 ao,aeo
j ditto 5,000 & caih 5,000 10,000 :
r ditto 5,000 Sc. caih 5,000 10,000
1 cab prize of 10,000 J
a do. 5,000 each, are ■ 10,000 1
30 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
»o do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
»oo do. 50 jo,oos
4co do. 15 - 10,000
1,000 do. 3® - 10,000
15,000 do. to • 150,000
16,739 Prizes.
3 3,361 Blank*.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 4*0,000
N. B. To favour thofc who may take a quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the cast drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but on* :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
money or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will
be received foi any number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be ere&ed in the City of
Washington—Two beautiful designs are already
iele&ed for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawings it ispropofed to ere<st
two centre and r our corner buildings, as foonaspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the neceflary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the Notional Univerlity, to
be erected within the city of Waihington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two Dire&-
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the c mount ot the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tiekets may be had at the Bank of Colcm
hij ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Petrr
Oilman, Uoflon : of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Walls, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
Notice.
A LLperfons indebted to the Eilate of Saiau i
-ii. Makihau, deerafed, are requelled to make
immediate payment, and th"fe that have demands 1
again# said estate, are desired to bring in their ae- j
toonts properly attefled forfettlement, to either of |
thefubicribcrs. Christopher Marshall, Jr. 1
C a spa R W. Haines,
.Abraham M. Garklgues, I
Adminiilrators to the Eilate of Sarah Marihall,
■deeoafed. June 3 zaw3w (
PennfylvaniaPopulatioo Company. i
NOTICE is hereby given to the Share Hold- J
era, that a further afleiTWient of nine dol
lars is levied on each ihare, payable as follows,
viz. ; '•
Six Dollars immediately, and
Three Dollais on the lit of July next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Treasu
rer of the Company, at the Company's Office,
JJo. 53, North Fourth-street, jgreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed, that on their negle&ing to pay.the
fame as above diredted, the fovcral forfeitures '
will be exalted. I
Bv order of the Board,
SOL. MAKACHE, Trelfurer. 1
May 17. d ;ot
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
Company, i
May \JI, 1797.
THE STOCKHOLDERS
WHO are in arrcaisfor anyfemsdeeon their 1
re r pe&ive (karcs, are requelled to pay the |
tunc. 1
WILLIAM GOVETT, Trcrfurer.
IO B>4W
For Sale or Charter,
i ~ ■ THE SHIP
■ warren,
flen/amin Church, Afafter.
! s \l: X *- v OF about zBo tons burthen. Ea
■T-r,.fWSU ■ quircof
Jeffs 1$ Robert Waln-
May 16 5
JohnTarris, master.
A GREAT p3rt of her cargo is engaged, and
ihe will fail in ten days. For freight orpaf
fage apply to capt. Tarris. at Willings & Francis'
wharf, or to GURNET & SMITH.
May 35 §
For London,
WILLIAM PENN,
Jamrs 'Josiah, Majler.
WILL fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or paiTage apply to
Jeffe iff Robert Wain.
May 19 ' § ..
For Freight or Charter,
•' To any part of Europe,
The S'wedi/b Ship
Alexander Magnus,
Capt. Carl O. Ehsman,
A BOUT 350 tons burthen, in this port; and
JTL also the Uanilh Ship FREDERICK |ULIU3
KAUS, of 450 tons, now lying in Hampion Roads.
Apply to JOHN VAUGHAN.
May 26. tuthfSt
For Sale,
The cargo -of ihe brig Enterprise, Captain
Langdon from Boufdeaux, now landing at
Morton's wharf,
CONSITING OF
514 hhds. of Claret 2 •
ai; cases of ditto -o "2
100 cjfes of Sweet Oil 3
110 pipes London proof > '5 *
io pipes of Holland proof ) BRANDY -
Apply to
Wharton Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
Said Brig,
WILL take a FREIGHT for
p the Weft-Indies or Europe, fails
fait, burthen about fifteen hun
-JSLX.-1 Sadred barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply asabovo.
1 May 34
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extradt of an a£t paffetl by the Legislature of
the state of Maryland on the 39th December,
1791, entitled, "An aft for erefling a bridge
over Potowmac river.
'• And be it enabled, that the CaiU direiflors or
any two »f them ihall and may require any sum
or sums of money in equal proportion from each
and every proprietor, as may from time to time
be neceflary for carrying on the building of said
bridge; and after giving three months public
notice, it ihall and mayl>e lawful for the direct
ors K> sue for and recover in the nams of the
company such unpaid requifitiort, with all coits
and charges incidental thereto, and legal interest
therecn from the time the fame ihould have
I«eu paid: And the negleft or refufal to pay any
such requisition after public notice ihall have
been given at least for three months in all the
newipapersheiein before enumerated, fcall have
the effect to forfeit ail preceding payments made
on the ihare or ihares so negleited or refufed to
be paid t9 the use and benefit of the company."
1 he above extract is publiihed for the infor
mation of such of the ilockholders as have not
complied with the requisitions heretofore made
—they are as follow :On the Ift November,
1795, 30 dollars, on the loth May, 1796, 40
dollars; an the 30 th July, 1796, 40 dollars ; on
the ift September, 1796, 40 dollars, and on the
lit November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is <
now giveß that after the expiration of the time
limited for the continuance of this advertise
ment (three months) the law will l>e carried
into rigid and complete efTeift against all delin
quents. ,
By order of the Direiftors,
WALTER SMITH, Treafarer. ,
Georgetown, May 1, 1797. iaw3m
William Haydon,
Drawing Mafler, from London ;
WHERE he studied several years under one
of the moil emineat mailers in that sci
ence. He attends ycung ladies and gentlemen '
at their refpeitive h'oules. His terms are fix <
dollars per month for attendance three times
per week; likevrife all kind of ornamental ]
painting, fruit, flowers, &c. taught on the above
terms.
A line directed to W. Haydon, No. 36, Pear
ftreet,will be immediately attended to.
W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will be par- 1
ticularly advantageous, where there are several '
pupils iii the fame family ; as he makes no al- '
teration in his terms if there are two or three '
to teach in one family.
May 9. *_ j
This Day is published, i
By THOMAS DO BSO N, 1
At the Stone House, No. 41 south Second-street,
Price 37 1-3 cents,
1 wo Leflures on Combujlion.
supplementary to a courfeof Ledures onCHE-
O MtSTRY ; containing an Examination of Dr.
Prieftby's Considerations on the Doctrine of Phlo
giilon, and the acconipofitioo of Water, j
By JOHN MACLEAN, I
Proftffor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy j
in the College of New-Jersey.
_May 13 mvrf3p I
Caution.
'"r'HE Public are hereby forewarned agtinft 3
JL tiuiling.thc step-daughter of the Sulilcriti
er, and her mother, his second wife. Repeated t
mifeondud\ compels him to forbid any person to t
give them credit on his account, as he will pay i
no debts of their contracting after this date. c
LUNO BROWN.
Philadelphia, May 16, a 797 18— fh3ti
By John Fenno, N°- rip Chefnut Street.
PHILADELPHIA• MONDAY EVENING, JUFE 5, t 797 .
The C emmiffioners
carrying into efle.2 the Cith article of the
X treaty of amity, comim rce and navigation, con
cluded between his Briunoic imjejty and the United
_ States of America, en the 19th day of November,
X 794, having this day constituted their Bo\r \ —
purfuaut and agreeibfy to the said treaty, u. \sre
by give notice, that tliey arc ready to proceed t»
bullncfs accordingly; and they desire that all claims
under the said article (which so far as the faaie de
scribes the cases thereby provided for, is hereunto
annexed) may be lodged with their Secretary with
out delay.
1 hey further deiire that all such claims may not
only-date in what manner the several cases come
j within the defcriptioH of the said article, but also
especially fit forth .he nature of the evidence by
, which the claimants relpedtively undertake tofub
ftantiatc the fame.
Exjraft from the said article,
" Whereas it is alledgcd by divers Britilh mer
" chants, and ethers his majesty's fubjedts, that
" debts to a conildcrable amount, n hich were bona
" fide contracted, befpre the peace, still remain
" owing t« them by citizens or iahibitants of tile
" United States; and that by the operation of va
" rious lawful impediments, since the peace, not
" only the full recovery of the said debts has been
" delayed, but also the value and security thereof
" hive been in several Instances impaired and (ess
" ched, so that by the ordinary course of judicial
" proceedings, the Britifii creditors cannot now
_ " obtain and actually have and receive full and
" adequate compensation for the-lofts and dama
" ges which tncy have thereby luf ain-d: It is a
" greed that in all such cases where full compenfa
-11 tion for such lolTes and damages cannot for what
" ever reafou be a£lu illy obtained, had and recei
" ved by the said creditors in the ordinary course
" of justice, the United States will make full and
" complete compensation for the fame to the said
" creditors: but it is dil'tindly understood, that
" this provision is to extend to such losses only as
" have been occasioned by the lawful impediments
" aforefaid, and is not to extend to lofles occasion
" ed by such infolvcncy of the debtors or other
" causes, as would equally have operated to pro
" duce such loss, if the said impediments had not
" existed ; nor to such lofies or damages as have
" been occasioned by the manifeft delay, ornegli
" gencc, or wilful omiifion of the claimant."
By order of the Board,
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secretary.
Philadelphia, Commissioners" Office,
No. 3 south Sixth-ftrcet, May 29,
'7V7- J i—tawjw
SWAN N'S
Riding School, Horse Academy & Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his sincere thanks to those gentlemen by
whom he hai been emploped, during hisrefidence in
this City, and Batters hirnfelf that tfce fuccefj of his :
efforts, in the numerous, obllinate and dangerous dif
eales in Horses, in which he has been conlulted, to- '
gethefwith his moderate charges, will secure their
future favors and recommendation •
He now begs leave to inform them and the public
at large that his spacious and commodious premifei, :
eredted for the purpofet above described are open for '
the reception of pupils of either lex, who wish to be
mftrufted in the Art of Riding, and the right method
of governing their horses, so as to ride them with
cafe elegance, and l'afety—their horses will be care
fully and expeditioufl pbroke, for every purpose, and
made obedient to he will of the riders;
powers which are shut up in them, will be unfolded
by art, calling forth uniformity of motion, and giving *
to that nobleanimal all those beauties of a&ion which ]
providence has so bountifully bellowed on them.
Also, at his hospital, every diforderto which the ,
horse is liable will be treated according to the rules of j
trt, confirmed by longand repeated experience.
The utility of the above inftitation has never been '
qnellioned, that it has long been wanted in this cup, '
every gentleman's stud will manifeft, and T.-Swa*n
as the fiift eftahlifher of the art, fohcits and ,
lelies upon the fuppoit of that public (which he is
ever anxious io serving) to enable him to bring it to
perfection. The idea of a fubfeription for that pur- J
pafe has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who wish 1
to promote the inflitution the amount of each lub- j
fcripiion to be returned by services in any of the der
pirtmentsi he profelfes, agreeable to the rate of charges -r
Aated in nis hand bill. Sachfubfcription is now o
pen, and the signatures of maisy reiptftable gentlemen 1
already obtained. He therefore injorms hii friends
and such Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not -
the honor of being known, that he shall in a few
days takethe liberty of waiting upon them and folici
tiug their support and protedion.
N. B. Hurlcs are properly prepared for those La
diesand GemJemenwho wish to be inflru'&ed.
Nov. 5. tth&f. I
TO BE RENTED, ~
And may be entered upon at any time,
THATforcibleand wellimprovedwater works -i
on Brandywine, three miles from the town *
ef Wilmington, in the state of Delaware;
CONSISTING OF
A large, convenient Slitting Mill, c
In complete order, having several pair of rolls
and cotters of every lize.
A large, Stone Merchant Mill,
Having three pair burr stones, boulting works,
corn kiln and every other necetTary apparatus.
A Saw Mill, o
In the best order, and a pair of timber wheels.
A Smith's Shop and Tools.
To accommodate these works there is a large
commodious stone dwelling house, kitchen and
walh house and a number of dwelling honfes
for workmen, with gardens adjoining ; two large
stone (tables, two stone coal houses, and a-coop
er's /hop, with meadow and pasture grounds. c
If the tenant chufes he may have the oppor
tunity to purchase an excellent te«m of five hor
ses, waggon, coal carriages and bed, with a
stock of coal in the coal houses fuflieient to ma- I
nufailure three hundred tons of iron.—Apply to
RUMFOKD & ABIJAH DAWES,
No. 7, South Water-street. r
TO BE SOLD, p
And pofleflion given immediately, v
A Lot of Land ; , {■
SITUATED in Mount-Holly, in the county d
of Burlington, in New-Jetfey, lately occu: p
pied by Francis Bullus, Esquire, upon which ar» ti
an excellent brick house, two (lories high, with p
four convenient rooms on each floor, also a good a
liable, carriage houl'e and other buildings. The p
lituation is valuable forbufinefs of any kind, and
at lead equal to ai:y other in the tow». J
The terms of payment will be made easy to
the purchaser. Apply to \Villiam Koflell, Esq.
uire, Johs Perry, or Richard Coxe, merchants,
in Mount-Holly, or to the SuhGmber, in the city
of Burlington. a
JOSEPH U-ILVAINE. n
But li»E'ow, «7th April May s—fjw5 —fjw j
A New Work.
- PROPOSALS
For printing and poblifhing, by fubfeription, The
- History of Pcnnfylvania,
IN Norih-America, from the original inflitution and
fcttlcmcDt of that province, under the fi/ft propii
s etor aud governor, William Pink, in 1681, 'till
aftet the year 174*; viith
3 AN INIRODUCTION
Refpefling the Life of w. PENN,
Prior to theg'ant of that Province, and the reli
t gious Society of the ptople called Quakers; wiih the
- FIRST RISE of the NEtOHBORI \'G COLONIES,
> msre particularly of WtST-NEW-JERSEY, and the
r Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDES on DELA
. WARE.
To which is added,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE.
And of the genera) Hate, in which it flourifhed,
principally bmween thr years 1760 and 1770. The
whole including a variety of things, ufelul and in
teresting to be known, refpefling that country in ear'y
time, dec. With an appendix.
Written principally betweemhe years 1776 and 1780,
By -tcBXRT Provd.
" Pukfoim -fl bncficere etiam lemdktre
haud akjmiim <y?, vcl face vet btllo clarum fieri licet.''
sal. Catalin,
"SeJcum fieri7ue ariitrentur res folticai ma-ore, effc
juam urianas, mniuendae/i hazopinio."
Cic. Off.
(f nttrei according to law.)
" WILLIAM PENN, thegieat iegiflator of the
Quakers, (in Pennsylvania)had the success of a con
queror, in eftaiilifhing and defending his colony, a.
mong savage tribes, without ever drawing thefword ;
the goodness of the moil benevolent rulers, in trea
ting his fubjecls as his own children ; and the tender
nels of an univerial father, who opened hia arms to
all mankind without diftinfiiono* feft or party. In
his Republic it was not his religious creed, but per
sonal merit, that entitled every member of society to
the prote&io* and emolument of the State-"
EJfayon Toleration, by Arthur o'Leary.
CONDITIONS.
I. This work willbe printed in two oflavo vol
umes, neatly bound and lettered, both in (heep and
calf, for the choice of the fubferibers; on paper simi
lar to that of thecond'tioos, as pubhjkci in the Subjcrip
t ion papers.
11. The head of William Penn, handsomely en-,
graved, will be prefixed to the firft, and a map or
Ik etch of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the
second volume.
Ill" The price to fubferibers will be four dollars
and an half in sheep, and five dollars in calf;—one
dollar to be paid at the time of fubfciibing, two dol
lars on the delivery of the firftj volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery of the second.
IV. When one thousand copies are fubferibed
for, the work will be out to press an 3 finifhed with
iall convenient expedition.
Subscriptions will be received by Zachariah Poul
fan, jun. Printer, No. 80, Chefuut-ilreet, and at the
Philadelphia Library in Fifth-ftreet ; by Uaac Col
lin«. Printer, and Joseph James, Merchant, New-
York: by John P..Pleafantsand George W. Field,
Msrchants. Baltimore; and by other pelfons both
In town and country,
February 18. tn&f
for Sale,
At the Office of the Gazette of the United
States, No. 119, Chefnut-ftreet,
The lajl Report of the late Secretary ■
of the Treafitry; being a brief history ps the
state of financial <>oncerns of the United States.
The Proceedings of the Executive
of the United States refpetSling the western in
lurrcfliou ; Containing many faifls and cir
cumllances no where else to be found. 50
cents.
The Letter of Mr. Pickering to
our rainifter in France. 37 1-2 cents.
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States for the year i
17 9S-
A few copies of the volume for 1794 tflay be <
had to complete setts.
D'lvernois' account of the Revo- -
lutionin Geneva, n 1-1 cents.
April 3. § -
Important Public Document.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale t
At the Office of the Editor ofthe Gazette e>f the j
United States, c
No, 119 Cheliiut-Stre»t,
[PRICK ONE IkOLLAR AND FIFTY CEHTs] [
A FEW COPIES OF THE £
Receipts and Expenditures c
OF THE UNITED STATES, «
For the Year 1795, — r
Being the I.atest Period to which an account i
can be made up. fc
February t2. # S. t
For Sale,! ~ J.
At this Office,
No. 119 Chefnut'jlreet,
A few copies of a late Report of a Committee
of the Senate, on the fubje£ of the
GEORGIA LANDS. 1'
Marc,h 13 S I
Laws of the U. S. ti
SWIFT's EDITION.
JuJi Publijhed, j
Price 6 dollars, 3 vol. i2mo. a
Sold by W. Young, Mills and Son, H. and ri
P. Kice, M. Cvey, K. Campbell and Co. j.
Laws of the United States, ci
From the commencement of the Federal Govern- 3
merit to the end of the lajl Session of Con- d
grefs, which terminated Mtrch $, 1797. b
Hj I HIS edition, published under an order of
I- Congress of the United States, hat many P
peculiar adyintages. In the former one, each hi
volume had a separate index, which rendered
the reference in all cases, difficult and trouble- -
some, and in many almost impoiCble. The in
dexes were, moreover, very injudicipufly com
piled. On the contrary, in the present edition,
there is one copious, luminous index, com
piled by Zephaniah Swift, Eftj. referring to
all the volumes, and compriCng in itfelf a com
plete digest of all the laws of the United States.
Mr. Pickering's Letter to Gen.
l'inckney.
A few copies of the above intsrefiing paper,
may be had as the office of the Calette of the U
mted'iates.
MaylJ 5
Now Landing,
-At Pratt's u/harf
FROM on boardth; (hip Thomas Clulklcy,
c Capt. Rafcr, from Bourdeanx,
/"'LARET irt calks
Ditto in cases
id White Wine Vinegar
Red Skins in boxes
*" For Sale by
Ritndlehf Leech.
Tf » t
™ A few hhds. N. E. Rum,
' Of a SUPERIOR QUALITY,
" HYSON ■)
OUNG HYSON > TEA S, in quarter cheAs,
Afti IMPERIAL 3
L for pale by
A. Marple & Israel W. Morris,
' No. 60 Dock-flreet.
t . 7 - mw&fg't
y Gold and Silver Watches,
1, an f *ccllent quality, and neat faihicnabis
V-/ Gold Chains, Seal> aud Keys, Eight Day
Clocks and Time Pieces, faHuqnable Steel andC-iit
Chains, &c. &c. for Sale by
JOHN J. PARRY,
Clock and Watchmaker, No. 38. S. ad street.
Clocks and Watches ot ail kinds carefully
repaired.
c May ry. lue s. & f a . j w
New Hat and Hosiery Store.
- Jnji Imported,
In theJhips William Pain and Star, from Lcndon, ar.d
nouj opining by
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
AT hi. new Hat and Hosiery Store, No. 134,
Market ftreet—
-1 An elegant affortnwnt ol silk, cotton and thread
■ Stockings
1 Silk, cotton and thread Gloves
Pantaloons, &c. &c.
Likewise, a handsome assortment of men's, wo
men's, and children's fafliionable Hats, fuitablcfcr
the Scafon.
A considerable quantity of low and middle pricad
Hats aflorted in cases, intended for country itores.
; May 13. taw
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 south Second-street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the lalt day ot
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination and register
ing, in the Canal, No. a, City of Wafliingtou, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets for sale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the ceurfe of the summer.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &c. traafaifted with the
utmost a:tenti*B.
June 2 tu&f
Imported, in the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
FronS-ftreet,
Hyson
Hyson Skin ( Tr , c
Young Hyson
Imperial J
April 20. cots
To be Sold,
The time of a Negro Man,
WHO has about fix years and an kalf to
serve. He is bonoft and sober, a toler
able waiter, and understands driving a carriage.
For terms apply at No, 113, Souih Third
Street.
May 25. eod6t-
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the bigheft bidder, at the heufc ef Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian/
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the a.fth
day of O&ober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M.
About seven thousand acrfj of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifter's-town aad Weftminftcr,
commonly called Little Winehefter, (the turn
pike road runs through a considerable part'of
tliefe lane's) the tracJl begins about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards, '•
of said Rciiler'e-town, and extends to the tfif
tance of abaut twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and li* on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in trail? of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land ori each trail,
fomc of tiiem highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine gr;fs.
ALSO,
A traft of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
Bladenlhurg, esteemed very good for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby,of Bladen (burgh, will (hew
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
ALSO,
A tract of land ©f about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a half o! the Prelident's house in the Fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpefl, from which may be fcen the
city of Washington, Bladenfburg-h, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, 'and many miles
downihe Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfon
by, of Bladenfburg, will also (hew this land.
A liberal credit will be given for the greatest
part of the purchase money, i'he terms will
be made known on Che day of sale.
May 8 w^m
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufactured as usual,
Ginger and Pepper groupd
Shelled or Pearl Barley «
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Burton Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-calk or gallon—suitable
for exportation or home consumption
For Salt by
John Haworfh.
No. 98 south Front street.
May 18 ttl4W
[fotvMi XI%l)t Cswttt>
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, JUNE 5.
Ml. EENNO,
I fenrfyou trinflations ef foflie paCagcs in a pam
phlet pu'xifhed at Parkin rke present yojr, written
oy Duu aJ, a member of tbe Council o( Ancients
The gentleman was in America with til ' French
army. Hit pamplet is entitled, " Des R(suUat3 de
la D:ruicre Campagne."
The object of the writer it to fliow the propri
ety anil neceflity of making peace—of notpcriiliiig,
wb(li«at(ly in thefyftefn of making peace voith only
one of their enemies at a tune, and that they ought
to treat with England and Auitria jointly.—" The
with for hack (fayi Mr. Dumai) can no more t*
restrained, neither in our canipt, nor in our cities,
nor in our families.
" Thi« lively delire i» doubtlcfs a ftrsujer to
ihofc who ar« themselves Grangers to the republic.
These men whom ao pullic misfortune can reach,
•ad haseno other energy than the fury of pasty
.spirit, feign to perceiva a thngefons abandonment
•if tht (fdnlmOn ca'ufe in the tendency to frtt'.id trier,
which t» in fait its surest guarantee in this imperious
want offt acc, in this profound nationalfertt.Mj.nt, which
belong* only to true citizens.
" Never, however, did our brave volunteers
diflinguifh themselves more frequently, by brilliant
actions, than in thecourfe ol the tail, campaign ;
never in any nation, ancient or modern, did the
generals and chiefs carry so far that generous ne
gle>£l, that patriotic carelessness of life 4 Will ! alt
dfireptaee, clt sail for it with t'.ud eei:s.
" Pnfs into the camps of the Auftrians, and you
will bear the fame wishes, you will hear the fame
murmDrs, which the severest discipline cannot re
press : the echoed of the two banks of theßhine re
peat the crier; of peace as frequently as they repeat
tbe claps of our thunder. Oh each lide the war is
ended as to the combatantt. Their bandt only are
fli!l armed ; all their hearts arc open to geae.cus
lentiments ; all their inclinations are oppol'ed to
action ; all the people hold in horror a war which
eonfumes their strength, and which, having hence
forward no other object than war itfetj, has bo more
an cxcufe is the eyes of humanity, nor of pretext
in the view of policy."—[Pages 28, 39, 30.]
Page 51. —" It may thcH be proper for France
to repofs hcrfclf with full confidence on her own
flrength, and that of her neutral allies. Then we
we {hall not dare to violate the property of nations
while we pretend to refpe-S individual "property ;
we (hall not dare to measure justice by greater or
less degrees of humiliation."
Page 51, 5 " Let us kope that the Drcliory
of the J-rcitib Republic, rejecting the violent counsels,
the perfidious eounjets te which it has abandoned itfelf ever
/t'Cl its ejlabljbntnt will not di&emble either the wifli
ec or the wants cf the country, nor lose light of
those terrible truths which itfelf has proclaimed."
tßefering, doKbtlefs, to the horrible Ctuation of
France, in refpedt to its finances, and to th:' difor
oars prevailing 111 all its departments, so that, as
the Directory reprelcnted to the legislature, theft,
jobbery.murder and aflaflination were organized.]
" If the Dire&ory could not profit by the over
tures which so naturally introduced the firft armi
stice, and take the true advantage of a conqueror,
tbe afccndant of moderation, in presenting to Eu
rope the bases cl a general peace, then perhaps .els
dilficult to fix j-i-bting now better informed,naoi%
free, disengaged from the ftornrt in the bosom of
which it was formed, the DireSory will donbtlefs
fear to remove themselves lrum th« affedlion of the
people, without which the executive power is but
the vein image of autlr rity; it will fear to insulate
itfelf for»ver, by rekindling the flames ot war.
"To rekindle the war! This would be to com
mit the crime which we impute to the Englith cabi
net; to calculate the value of conqiiefls without
weighing the blond, the tears, and the inheritance
■- of th* citizens! This would be to pretend that the
national dignity, that honor, of which one of our
molt ingenious writers lately said tbe fmokf has no
rulline by which it may le fixed, were opposed to rea
fonable agreements. Inline, to rekindle the. war
would be to give their o wn_ opinions, 'their
doflriue, so? univerfai rules,* to pretend to be Ro«
mans, to dispense with being Frenchmen, to put a
factitious interest of government, in the place of tht
real interest of the nation."
[• This is preeifely what the Directory have been
doing tow;-rds,the United States and all tlje neutral
powers of Europe . vacating, at their pleasure, in
•►-treaties, any aryles which do not suit tbeui, and
preferihing rules of commcrcs adapted to their own
ambitious designs ]
IT has been often said that the chief use
of history is, to teach ly experience. This
is just and true ; but the application of ge
neral truths to particular cases is not unfre
quently made too late, or not made at all.
For example, our affairs at this moment e
vince how little our enlightened nation were
prepared, either by reading or observation,
for the events it fuffers and deplores.
Almoll every one makes it an occasion of
surprise that the French have so terribly used
and abused their influence in America. It
would b? ten times more strange if they had
not. Foreign influence in a State has not
been, nor will be, (for indeed it cannot be)
productive of any thing but abuse. It is
of the nature of the doctrine of slavery,
whose foundation is in wrong, and every act
is injury. The lot of a slave may be to
have a kind matter, yet a tyrant's mercy i 3
not to be confounded with liberty. It is
very true the condu£t of France tends to nu
such confufion i« our ideas, for her tender
mercies are cruelty-
During our revolution war, our minds
were heated hotter than red hot iron by the
pal Eons of the contefl. Then when the
fabflance was foftened, France made the
impression ; it has since cooled, but it re
mains. Her conduft has at last opened our
eyes, and we fee that the treaty of 1778
was a Jewish bargain. For an aid in her
ships, troops, and money, very trivial, con
sidering her power, and the ardency of her
wishes to fever the Briti/h empire, she exafts
the eventual guarantee of her Weft Indies,
a condition of the hardest kind, the molt
unequal, the moll contrary to our pacific
commercial policy, the most subversive ,of
our wife, neutral and independent charafter
that could be imagined. The alarms and
distresses of the moment made us overlook
such a flipulation. Cooler reflection points
out its future danger to our peace jcommercc
and fafety.
This oversight is one proof (and that at
the very ou%fet) of the mifchiefs of foreign
connexion.
1 But the main objeft of these remarks is
to draw men of reading into notice, that the
whole current of historical fafts is a warning
against foreign influence.
Among the ambitious repubb'csof Greece,
the condition of allies was slavery. Athens,
like France, decorated the temples of her
Gods vrith pictures and ftatucs by forced
contributions irom. her ulliis. Sparta every
where the ariftocratitf faftioa in
the Grecian cities, and Athens the demo
cratic, and each by turns cut the others
throats. Some of our democrats pretend
to be philosophers. Let them read Thu
cydides.
Rome forced her alliance, {Word in hand,
upon the then civilized world, and after
wards by her Genets and Adets prcfcribed
to the nations the duties of allies or citi
zens. Of ill the conditions of slavery, it
was the molt wretched. The oppressor had
no feelings of compassion, the oppressed no
resources of defence. The despots did-not
tonfider their allies as their (laves whom they
had an intertft to spare, but as victims va
lued for their Ik ins and their fat. Holland,
Brabant, Geneva, Genoa, Venice, and
Ronit, as well as Spain and Sardinia drink
deep of the bitterness of this cup of humi
liation
Greece and Rome, as modern France, firft
sowed the feeds of intestine discord before
they reaped the harvest of power and plun
der in a Hate. They brought a nation
whom they would plunder and enslave firft
to the brink of a civil war, then, by siding
with one of the parties, forced the other to
accept of their alliance.
The ancient Britons in like manner intro
duced the Saxons, who soon picked a quar
rel with them, because they had not, as they
said, been well used as allies. They accor
dingly proceeded to carve out of the coun
try their own recompense. This produced
the longed and bloodiest struggle recorded
in history, and ended in the extirpation of
the Britons who had ra(hly called in the
Saxons to meddle in their affairs.
The Saxons themselves Come hundred
years after invited the Danes to allift in a ci
v;l war, and these allies also became tyrants
and masters.
The influence of the Pope in England in
the days of King John and Henry third is
more direftly analogous to the mifchief of
French influence, because like the latter it
was founded in prejudice and well intention
ed error, and in like manner was perverted
to the purposes of ambition and faftion.
Religion was then the pretext, as liberty is
now. The Engliih people being bigoted
catholics, the power of the Pope over the
i mind was greater than the king's. John,
by attempting to support his authority a
j gainst the Pope, was humbled by the fac
tion in league with him. When, however,
in 1216, John, to the eternal disgrace of
| his memory, gave up his crown to Cardinal
| Pandolfo, the Pope's legate, and took it -
1 back again as the vassal of the holy fee,
then he found papal protection. The eccle
siastical thunders were launched against the
very fame nobles whom they had before as
sisted to dethrone the monarch, and to. up
hold that very defpotilm which they had for
a time subverted by the great charter of En
gliih liberties,
i The Pope's influence was used incor.fill
ently in appearance, but in ftrift- conformity
with the nature of all foreign influence, to
! facrifice .every thing to itfelf. Engliih liberty
was every thing, till the king and power
' became the Pope's, and thep Engliih liber-
I ty was treason and. ihipiety.
Thus lately our independence was every
thing, when the question was" to fever us
; from Great Britain. But when our treaty
was made to get back our captured ships
and cargoes, our detained polls, to quench
the flame of an Indian war, and to prevent
the kindling of a more extensive snd wafte
ful one with Britain, then our independence
was the fin of ingratitude. We had no
right to make such a treaty, as if we had
not gained our independence, or had gained
it from only, and not from France.
King Henry, John's successor, through
his whole reign of 56 years, submitted to
be the tool and dupe of the Pontiff of Rome,
who in return abetted his despotism, and
both robbed the miserable people, How
England was beggared and coaVulfed in con
sequence, let men of letters read for them
selves, and tell their unlettered fellow citi
zens for their inftruftioq and warning.
One consequence, and a comforting one
itis, maybedrawnfrom thehiftory of Henry
the third, that when foreign influence was
pushed beyond all bounds of (hame on one
fide and patience on the other, the spirit of
the nation rose, though very slowly, and
produced such solid securities for the magna
charta, or great charter, that ail the liberty
of England is inherited from it.
In like manner the 4th of July 1776
gave us a right to be free and independent.
But the abuses of French influence alone
have matured the spirit and temper without
which that ever famous aft would be no bet
ter than France considers it, parchment and
•wax. A Reads*.
COMMUNICATION.
CONCESSIONS OF MR. GALLATIN
in the House of Representatives.
That the United States were not bound to
do more than they did for repelling the light
exercised Dy Britain to take the goods of her
enemies out of our neutral (hips ; though it
wa« improper to make any treaty of com
merce with her until Ihe fliould rclinquilh
that right.
That the conduft of our government had
been just and impartial, in the main, towards
foreign nations ; tho' he was not then pre
pared to lay that in every particular instance
it had been so. Still less was he prepared to
point out any mflance in which it had not.
That the British treaty in particular, tho'
it might be unfavorable to France in its ope
ration, was not intended by the government
to be so, and gave no just ground of complaint
to Fraoce.
That the Executive is at this time fiocere
ly delircm of 'maintaining peace on teims
compatible with our honor »nd interells ; tho*
he had not that implicit confidence 10 its
wisdom as to be fully convinced that it would
adopt all the meafor«i the moll liicly to en
sure success.
That juflice required do eonccffions from
thii cuuutry to Frantt. Thtt such u he
prupufed weu fouiidfd !■> policy aioi'f , ai.il
that if France (hould infi-1 on aoy tiling fur
ther (he ought to bcrcfilted.
That this country is invincible to Fiance l
that her conduct towards it hss been injurious
a<u iufuhing in the liigliell degree ; and that
(he relics on our divisions.
That there is no British party in this coun
try, any more than a French party ; that all
parties are difpflfed for peace ; and that if it
cannot be pteferved on proper terms, the re
finance wiil be unanimous.
That if France (hould refufe t» make fa
tijfadlion for the depredations on our com
merce, whatever remains of gratitude or fri*nd
(hip may flill exilt, will be wholly extin
guiftied;
-Compare these concefiijns, not with the
lies and scurrilities of the jmobin newspapers,
but with the clamorous invettives of Giles,
■Livingfton, and Nicholas, and their fnpple
cringings to France! Compare them even !
with the arguments of the nwdeft and virtu
ous, but misguided Madison, and the difguft
mg flanders as Maz lei's hypocritical corres
pondent; and what a contra:*, do they present!
What a pidture du they give us of the pros
trate and humiliated condition cf this party,
whicb implicitly follows a man, cr iathe r is
;mperiou2y driven by him. Who not only,
without drrigning to confu't them, concedes
the ground which they have been for years
contending, but openly aud coutemptuoufly
lets them at nought ! Who, after their malt
elaborate harrangues, get 9 up and teils them,
in fubltance, that they are a pack of block
heads, who hate wholly mistaken the grounds
of nppofition j that their affeitions are tin
true or irrelevant, and their aacufations a
gaitift the government and its measures wholly
unfounded. He then tells them what (hould
be dons, and why ; and they immediately
chime in, with a note as (civile & fubrivflive,
a; if they were childreu learning music from
an ltaliau linger.
ft was thought a Angular circumstance.by ma
ny, that our French American paj ers, imme
diately on the eledtionof Prefideat Adams, cea
f«d to vilify him as an aristocrat, and commen
ced his eulogists—at least our correspondent
fays so—Nothing, he continues, can equal the
wickedness of that exotic faliioa but their weak
ness. Could they imagine that a little flattery
fromftich proftitutert Source* would divert the
•veteran of American Independence and Free
dom, from the licady pursuit of his patriotic
career ?—A system steadily and consistently ad
hered to from |his entrance into political life,
was not to be J'ucMenly abandoned from an ap
prehenficn of the abuse of men every way un
worthy of the regards of an independent itatef
man—Convinced that the adminiftratien of
IVsJhington was founded on the broad basis of
redtitude —that his measures were taken from
a comprehensive view of the true interests i>(
his country —that in adjusting his plans, Amer
ica was the governing principle of decision, it
is not to be expected that President Adams,
whose co-operation with hispredeceflor was the
result of congenial Sentiments, will no<w relin
quilh the fyflem t!xn pursued. Since the pub
lication of bis speech to Congrel's, the Jacabin
papers have assumed a tone very different from
~th"e Saothing, Servile adulatory one adopted
oms weeks ago —and becaufc he speaks opin
ions which none but a foreign mercenary can
disclaim, he is branded with the epithets so
I.her ally be/towed on Wafinngton a few months
before his retirement. Thrfe people wilhusto
cringe to every thing done against us by one
nation, and raise the banner upon the fmallejl
■weuni infiidted bv another—But this is wrong.
We (hould be fenlible to the irregularities and
injuriei' of all, and Seek redreSs in the molt am
icable wayfirft. If we fail in that, let us be
prepared for the worst ; for there is a point be
yond which submission is not moderation, but
meannejs ; and foibearanct pusillanimity !
York Daily Gaz.
FROM A CORRESPONDENT.
Any man who has lived loHg enough to be
able to recolledt, or has read of the hif
iory of France, to form any jull idea of it for
the lalt forly years, and the deep adverlities of
it, from the year 1763 to the year 1774, dur
ing wh:ch period, that nation lay in a kind of
lethargy, mourning over the train of its misfor
tunes j how the people were depcefled in their
own estimation, and in the coniideration of all
Europe ; in what contempt they were held by-
Great Britain ; their commerce and marine al
molt annihilated, their manufadtures languish
ing, and their finances in confufion ; that
the year 1774 and the moment of the meeting
of our Congress in the city of Philadelphia,
seemed to be the commencement of their refur
redtion to importance , That the spirit of
their nation then began to revive, and ;heir
hopes io ipriug up ; that they began then a
■gain to feel their own energy, to be again con
sidered .n Europe, and to believe, that the dif
memberinsnt of the Britilh empire, would be
the Salvation of France: That the period
was then arrived when it would have been scarce
poflible for them or Spain to have avoided ano
ther war with Great Britain, without an hope
of success, or any thing but disgrace and de
feat; That Seizing on the opportunity of
tha American revolution ; and even courting
and Soliciting underhand, an alliance with us,
they carried on ail easy war, and undisturbed
at land re-eftablilhed their marine : That by
our aid, they have both in the lift war and this
derived afilltance from the Dutch whom no
thing but the American independence would
have eVer induced to take that part rhat
the Americans since the revolution in France,
have maintained a magnanimous neutrality,
from which France has received a valt affiltance
from our trade; that the United States were
the fir ft power of the world to acknowledge
their independence and receive their miniftcr
with a promptitude to which ho treaty nor any
law of nations obliged them, which had by no
means been exemplified towards us by France
who compelled our ministers (with a Franklin,
one of the mail conl'picuoiia charadlers in the
warld at their head) to renuin in obfeurity and
danger in Paris, for more than a year before
they were received ; that we have fulfilled
with the republic all our stipulations with the
monarchy, witb a pundlilious and Scrupulous
good faith ; —I—that1—that our merchants have sup
plied their present government and people upon
credit, with proviCons, (lores, and necessaries
to the amount of a much larger value than all
the pecuniary afiiflance we ever received upon
loan from the court of Vtrfailles ; he mull br
aflonifhed at the depredations committed on qur
commerce, and the infttlts offered to our flag,
and the cruei outrages committed on our fellow
citizens under Frrtich authority ; he mud be
aftoniihed atthe languageheld by the Executive
Diredlory and their miniftcr {peaking in their
name; he must he allonifiied at their claims ol
gratitude, and can hear the arregict preten
fiens that we o-xt »•<>" i';J:flrrJ;• to or.
ly with a mixture #f 1:1 Jig iJtiat.aail contempt,.
HV. ~-V J ;
From -he Au 'ruri. ■■
Agcntkrr.au in this city is informed by; a
letter from his friend in Virginia, tlut file
condufl of the grand jury at Richmond, who
prefeoted colonel Cabell, is universally
bated through the. llate, and has added.tji the
colonel' 3 friends.
It is due to truth to inform, that the jury
was much deceived, and the majority, no
doubt, made up of the friends to Gieat-Bri
tain, and the enemies to information.
Obferiatiors on the above by a correspondent.
The grand jury, who made the present.
oient above alluded to, was, in truth, com
posed of the moll tcfpe&able-and independent
farmers and planters in the Hate. Many of
them were formerly strong advocates in be
half of the French, but, since the develope
ment of their views, have become convinced
of the necefliiy of ftipporting our own. go
vernment—a change in sentiment which has
very generally taken place in Virginia.
Circular letters, signed by S. J. Cabell,
were submitted to the grand jury, and it was
from a view of their contents, that they were
fligmatized at tending " to disseminate (la
founded calumnies ajrainfl the happy govern
ment of the United States, and thereby to
Separate the psople therefrom ; and to in
crrife or p oduce a foreign influence, ruinous
to the peace, happiness aud independence of
these United States."
A similar presentment has been made by
the grand jury of a diltrift court of the Rate
at Dumfries, and from this fa£t, the public
may judge of the truth of the aflertion " that
the conduit of the grand jury at Richmond,
who presented colonel Cabell is univetfally
reprobated thro' the slate."
PRESIDENT'S SPEECH.
The Editor of the Salem Gazette, fays,
"We offer to the public an Address of
President Adams at the opening of Con
gress. There is a manly freedom in it
while there is a precision, which is admira
ble. He has combined very noble senti
ments. He awakens a sense of national ho
nor, while he establishes the most deliberate
wisdom. He feels every indignity offered
to these States, while he permits no resent
ment unfriendly to peace. He calls for de
fence. while he employs negociation. He
commends a policy, which has our ownprof
perity, and not the prejudices of foreign
nations, as its obje<&. In this critical con
junfture, when all eyes are turned towards
hijp he has conciliated the affedtions, and
possessed the confidence of the U. States.—
Long live the President."
SALEM (Mair.) May 10.
A Quaker lately invited a tradesman to dine with
him, whom he treated with an excellent dinner,
wine, tobacco, &c. Hit guefl, after drinking pret
ty freely, became rude and-abufive to hi* host, i»-
fomuch that the Quaker's patience was at length
exhausted, and he addrcfled him in the following
words : — ,c Friend, I have given thee a meat offef
ing, a drink offering and a bnrnt offering, and for
thy mifcondudt I will now givs thee a heave offer
ing"—and immediately threw him into the street,
Out of the parlour window.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES,
THURSDAY, MAY 24.
Mr. Gallatin said the debate had
been extended into so wide a field, that the
object which iti his mind occupied the firft
place, was in some measure deprived of that
full consideration which time and circum
stances demanded : he thought those argu
ments which concerned the conduct of for
eign nations towards each other, might as
well have been omitted altogether on the
present occasion ; the members of the com
mittee may be made sensible of the irritation
of such discussions, but he believed no one
would pretend to fay he was fully informed
of foreign concerns on either fide, to decide
upon their policy Or impolicy-—at the fame
time it (hould be considered, that our own li
tuation and the bell pfllicy to be pursued in
that situation, are the only proper objefts of
our immediate attention, and those alone
upon which we can pretend to be properly
informed, or to decide with effect.
The quellion before the house was- the
amendment proposed by the gentleman
from Virginia ; and in" conlidering that a
mendment he iVould neither criticise upon
terms nor dispute about any of the nice de
licacies of diction—these he considered of
but very small consequence indeed, and he
cared not whether gentlemen fliould prefer
sensibility to indignation, or the contrary —
so that the fubitantial ends of our delibe
rations (hall be accomplished, and in a way
the most conducive to our national honor and
security : he did not pretend to censure
gentlemen for the excursive manner in which
they had debated on the amendment ; —he
only fixed it as a rule for himfelf to adhere
closely to it ; and this he would do by of
fering such observations upon it as occurred
to himfelf, and as arose from the remarks of
other gentleihen ; and he would notice the
latter before the substantial fa£ts.
It had been objected to the amendment, 1
that it was couched in language calculated
rather to apologize for the conduct of France
towards us than to assert our injuries ; —the
paragraph objedted to was in these words—
" but we flatter ourselves that the Govern
ment of France intended only to propose
the ordinary diplomatic intercourse, and to
bring into operation those extraordinary
agencies which are in common use between
nations, and which are confined in their at
tention lo the great cSjedts of difference
this is considered by some gentlemen as an
apology for the difmiflion of our Minister ;
he would observe upon this objection very
briefly—he would not enquire whether our
Minilter had ordinary or extraordinary pow
ers, but he would" consider that part of the
amendment in that point of view in which
theft j*ain > di/JVr*erice "of opinroa—W* til
■>' l Tr4e;riiri.Mr. Piack:flc.'y has been difniiffed,
aiuiiicf one has said that we Ihould not, nor
-thst we ire precluded from further negocia
tipn,. the Spec.ch of the'Pi-efideiit with the
fcntimeuts of every gentlf man' of the Com
uiktee are united j the amendfh'ent then appear
ed to him as an expreflio'n of that principle,
and he believed that nothing more nor less
than-thgt opinidn could be found in it.
.• Let .us now re'tiiark upon the arguments
against the other part of the amendment: A
gentleman frorfl South Carolina (Mr. Smith'-)
has told us that possibly Mr. Pinckney hid
extraordinary powers/and as he was difmiT
fed we should not agree in that amendment
while we agree iff the principle of further
nt'gociation, he could not diicfrn the appli
cation of this obje&ion ; but will it be said
that Mr. Pinckney Had extraordinary pow
ers, and that he could not treat—surely that
would not be maintained ; He would take
upon him to assert that he had not extraor
dinary powers, because if he had, the Pre
sident would either haVe told us he had, or
furnifhed us with a copy of them : and above
all because had he such extraordinary pow
ers there would have been no alternative For
us between submission and war.
Another gentleman (Mr. Sit greaves) had
said that he had no reliance on the magnani
mity or the justice of France, that he would
not trust to her as disposed to reconciliation,
and yet thegentleman is disposed to support
that part of the report which approves the
purpose to negociate ; he believed that such
declarations were not the best of all others
to ensure or even to promote a spirit of re
conciliation ; if we were injured We should
not be the less so for a dispassionate represen
tation of our injuries ; and inimofity is at
the best of times an inauspicious temper to
negociate under ; he believed if we should
be fiucere on both fides that our disputes
would have an amicable termination, and if
we mean to evince our sincerity that we
ought to be unequivocal.
He would now take up what he deemed
to be the' substantial part of the Addrefs 1 ;
he thought it should contain in One shape or
another, a declaration of the disposition to
place France on an equal footing with every
other nation, and having found it in the a
mendment, it was with him an additional &
powerful reason for supporting-it—it fays,
" We therefore receive with the utmost fat
"isfaftion your information, that a frefl) at
" tempt at negociation will be instituted
" and we expeft with confidence that a mu
" tual spirit of conciliation and disposition
" on the part of the United States to place
" France on the footing of a their countries
"by removing the inequalities v/hich have
" arisen in the operation of our. refpe&ive
"treaties, &c. See." In speaking of this
part of the amendment it may be rieceffary
to notice an objeftion which had been made
to the discussion of the fubjeft in that house,
upon the principle of the Constitution, that
the President with the and confjnt of
the Senate, are alone c&mptte# t and autho
rifedto consider and determine upon'foreign
■relations ; would'geffflefnen, then .fey that
this house is precluded frpm the freeexercife
of opinion on the most interesting cpnceri s
of "the nation, will they fay that the Repre
sentatives of the People (hall have-no voice
or deliberative weight in questions which go
to decide whether peace (hall be p/xferved
or war rendered inevitable ? Until they
do assert this, or at least until the Constitu
tion declares it, for it is so far fortunate that
the Constitution is much stronger than those
gentlemen : Until they declare this* in the
face of the Constitution, it will be the duty
of that house to disregard such far-fetched
doftr/'nes, and to deliberate fully ; but sup
posing that the house should resolve to ex
press an opinion in terms more strong, or ; s
itrong as they poflibly could be expressed,
and inform the President that we wished for
peace on such and such terms ; gentlemen
must know that the President is not bound
by the Constitution to adopt our counlel
we have the right to declare our opinion, he
has the right to aft ; but if he afts contra
ry to the national opinion, it must be upen
his own responsibility : It is clear, there
fore, that we do not interfere wish his du
ties ; we do not usurp his fun&ions, and
there can be very little reason to fufpeft that
the President will step out of the line of his
duties, or depart from the plans which
his wisdom has formed, in consequence of
any vote which we may pass, if it appears
to him in itfelf wrong ; if gentlemen would
indeed reft upon the authority of precedent,
and that derived from foreign and diffimil: r
Constitutions, it would not be difficult, to
cover the table with quotations,' from fcr
eign Parliamentary proceedings, direclly iiy,
the teeth of their afluinptions, and these too
from bodies whose rights were not so exten
sive ; whose Constitutions were not so free
as ours - ; gentlemen who insist on
precedent, and upon British-Parliamentary
precedent too, appear not to know or to
forget, that it was a vote of the British
House of Commons, which terminated the
American war ; srrd on a later but less im
portant occasion, that it vha a vote of the
House of Commons that" ftrminated the
Ruffian armament, which waa a cafe not ve
ry remote from a refemblante of the prefe; t
flute of our own affairs : But gentleniem as
if conscious of the futility of thtfe assump
tions, abandon them for another kind cf ar
gument ; they fay our exnreffion of cfir
opinion betrays a want of f onfidence in the
Executive ; this argument would do very
well in countries where the Executive was
every thingand the people nothing; or where
deliberation was only'a form and not a es
sence } but in our free Government, he dij
not know which to admire, the ftrangcueU
or tbe incongruity of the do&rine : He
thought that so far from betraying a want of
confidence, he was fully persuaded thePri
fident was then waiting anxiously for the
opinion of that House, or at least to kuow
the opinions cf the people, his wishes are for
peace, but he is also desirous of ascertaining
how far he (hall be supported in the negoci
ation? which are to iVcure it; and thi- difposition and thia are th« Beeewjry re- j wl
• ''lt of h:s fitUltion j he would remind gen- | ini
tleir.ea, that fix, fcven, or eight weeks have ev
elapfcu since the President received advice of Us
the (hfnnjiion of our Miniier, and vet to O
this hour he has oot taken any steps beside en
the calling of the Legislature together, to- m
wards that negociatioa; what does he fay
to us " believing <r.ei:ber the honor, nor the in. m
Urtfi cf the Vmted States abfolvtrly forbid the or
repetition of advances for feeuring theft desirable hi
ofjety with France, IJhall institute a frejh at- d<
tempt at negotiation, and shall not fell to pro
mote and accelerate art accomodation, on nc
terms compatible with the rights, duties, in- fe
tereft, and honor of the nation. If we have pt
committed errors, and these can be demon- e<i
grated, we /hall be willing to corredl them ; if
if we have done injuries, we shall be willing p<
on conviction to redress them, and equal pi
measures of justice, we have a right to expeft
from France and every other nation." From m
this explicit declaration of the opinion and
intentions of the Executive, he concluded h(
that it was a principal obje& to obtain a pre- aj
clfc knowledge of the feelings of the Ame
rican people, and that cannot be done in any ac
shape with a greater likelihood of certainty d<
than in that House. r m
[To be continued.] j h(
j te
Saturday, June 3. i th
Mr* Venable, from the committee ap- S'
pointed to wait on the President, to know
wheri and where he would receive the Ad- P'
dref3 of the House of Representatives in
answer to his Speech to both houses at the
opening of the session, reported that they
had waited on the President, and that he re
had appointed this day at twelve o'clock to j*'
receive the address.at his own house.
The Speaker informed the house that in f y
consequence of the inconveniences which
member? had felt from the increased heat of,
the weather, and owing to the great num
ber of grangers which attended the house, j ro
he had been induced to give directions, that :
after this say, the southern part of the cn
' house foould no longer be appropriated to nc
strangers, but that the north end. alone, and Fl
the gallery would be open for that purpose,
until the house should direct to the contra
ry. The order was confirmed. pi
A report was received from the commif- 2e
fion<rs of the Federal city,"which was order- p<
ed to be printed. pt
Mr. Lyon said, he yesterday voted against "
the appointment of a committee to wait u- th
pon the President to know when and where
he would receive their address, because he ft
believed the President should always be rea- ™
dy to receive important communications.— J
He wished to make a motion, which was, , rt
' " thatfueh members as did not chufe to at* j
tend upon the President to present the an- I Sl
fwer to his speech, shall be excused." He d
wilhed'to be understood. He thought the n
motion a reasonable one, because it proposed 11
to leave them at liberty to do as they pleased. 11
And by the rules he saw, he was obliged to p
attend, except sick, or leave of absence was c
obtained ; now as he hoped not to be sick "
he wished to put himfelf out of the power of a
the Sergeant at Arms, if he did not attend, si
Hehad been told, he mightftay behind with- 1
out being noticed ; but this was not enough
for him, as he was a timid man, and the r
House had the law on their fide, as he re- r
recollefted something of a reprimand which 0
had been given to Mr. Whitney (Thefpeak- '
er reminded him it was out of order to cen- si
(lire the proceedings of the house on any c
former occasion.) He said he flood correct- c
ed and proceeded. He had spoken, he said, {
to both fides of the House, (as they were r
called) on the fubjetSt. One fide difluaded f
him from his motion, and laughed at it ;
the other fide did not wish to join him in it, j
because it would look like difrefpeft to the j
person lately elected, who was not a man of '
their choice, but be trusted our magnani- f
mous President would, with the enlighten- (
cd yeomanry of America, despise fucha boy- 1
ifh piece of business. This, he said, was no '
new fubjeftwith him, he hadlong heard the <
folly of the wi.t made a matter of wonder '
in this refpeft. It was said, this was not 1
the time to abolish the custom ; but this was j
the cant used against every kind of reform. 1
JSfo better time could ever arrive, he said, 1
than this, which was the threshold of a new J
presidency. at a time when the man elefted ,
to the office was beloved and revered by his
fellow cytizens ;he was as yet unused to vain '
adulation ; he had spent a great part of his \
life ansongft a people, whose love of a plain- 1
L'nefs of manners forbids all Pageantry ;he 1
would be glad to fee the custom done away.
Were he aaing inhis own perfonalcharacter,
he perhaps might conform to the idle usage,
but a£ting as he was for 80,000 people, e
vcry father of a family in his diftridt would
condemn him for such an act.
The gentleman from Connefticut yester
day hctped there would be American blood e
nough f *> carry the question. (The speak
er again reminded him that he was out of
order to allude to what was done yesterday,
and said the proper motion would be to res
cind the rule, he said, only so much of it as
obliged the house to attend. This he said,
was no trifling thing with him, he should
have as great an objection to attend this bu
siness, as a Quaker would to make his'obei
fapce to a magistrate. (The Speaker said
he Biuft move to rescind the rule, or that he
himfelf be excused, no other motion was in
order.) Then he laid, he mult confine him
felf to the narrow ground of himfelf. He
had no obje&ion to gentlemen of high blood
v carrying this address. He had no pretensi
ons to high bloody though he thought he had
as good blood as any of them, as he wp.s born
of a fine hale, healthy woman. Before yes
terday, he never heard of gentlemen boaft
mg of their blood in that house. He could
not fay,' it was true, that he was descended
from the bastards of Oliver Cromwell,
or-his Courtiers, or from the Puritans, who
punifned the horses for breaking the sabbath,
or from thpfe who persecuted the Quakers,
or hanged the witches. He couid, how
ever, fay that this was bis country, because
he do. oilier : and lie owned a share of it,
which he had bought l>y means of kcneft <■
industry ; he had fought for hisrcountry. In 1
every day of he had repaired to her 1
standard, and had conquered under it.— *
Coaqueft had Ted his C9untry to independ- ;
ence, and being independent, he called no t
man's blood in question.. ii
Mr- Bloukt said he had seconded the t
motion of the gentleman from Vermont, in 1
order to give him an opportunity of slating
his reasons for making it, and not from asy /
desire to rescind the rule.
Mr. Dana obfe.ved that the house would I
not wish to. do violence to the gentleman's <
feelings. It was true sortie of the moil ref
peftable men in the United Statej, had wait- 1
edupon the President in a similar way, yet,
if the gentleman thought it would not com- t
port with his own dignity to do it, he ho- ,
ped he would be exc.ufed: ■
The motion was put and carried unvni
motifly.
The Speak er informed the houft? that the '
hour was arrived at which the President had
appointed to receive them.
Mr. Macon moved that thehoufe do now j
adjourn. He (hould wait upon the Presi
dent ; but it seemed to be nnderftood that I
members were obliged to go. He thought, '
however the power of the house might ex- '
tend to bringing a member into the house, ,
there was no power to carry him out. Ne
gatived without a division. i
The house -then withdrew, and waited u
pon the President of the United States with 1
the following address :
To the PRESIDENT of the United States. '
c J I
Sir,
THE inleierting detail of those e««nts, wilich Have
rendered the convention of Congress at thii time in
difpcnfable, (communicated in your fpeecb to both 1
house*) has excited in ui (he ftiotigelt emotions.
Whilfl we regret the occasion, we cannot omit to tefli
fy our apDrobatior of the measure. and to pledge our
selves that no conliderations of private inconvenience,
(hall prevent, on our part, a faithful difchatgc of the
duties to which we aie called.
We have constantly hoped, that the nationsjof Eu
rope, whilfl defolatcd by foreign war», or intestine
divisions, .would have left the United States to enjoy
that pcice and tranquility, to which the impartial
eondutl ef our Government had entitled ui; and it ii
now with extreme regret, we find the measures of the i
French republic tending to endanger a situation so dc
firable and interefling to our country -
Upon this occasion, we feci it our duty to express,
in the mofl explicit manner, the sensations which the
present ciifis has excited, and to allure yeu of our
jealous co-operation in those measures which may ap
pear ricceffary so our security or peace
Although it it the earned wish ot our hearts, that
peace may be maintained with the French republic,
and with all the world ; yet we never will (urrender
those tights which belong to us as a nation: and whilll
we view wi.h fati-faftion the wisdom, dignity, and "
moderation, which have marked the measures of the
supreme executive of our country, in its attempts to
remove, by candid explanations, the complaints and
jealousies of France, we (eel the full force of that in
| dignity which has been offered to our country in the
i rejeftion of its minister.
So attempts to wound our rights as a Sovereign
J State will escape the notice of our constituents : they
will be felt with indignation, and repelled with that
decision, which fhalj convince the world that we are
not a degraded people ; that we can never submit to
the demands ot a foreign power, without examination
aud without difcuflion.
Knowing, as we do, the confidence rrpofed by the
people of the United States in their government, we
cannot hefitatc in cxprcfTing our indignation at any Sen
timents tending to derogate fronijthat confidence.
Such sentiments, wherever entertained, serve to evince
an imperfeft knowledge of the opinions of our con
flituents. An attempt to separate the people of the
United States from their Government, is an attempt
to separate them from tbemfelves ; and although foi
eiguets who,know not the genius of our country,
may have conceived theprojctl, and foreign emiflaries
mav attempt the execution, yet the united efforts of
our fellow.citizens will convince the world of its im
practicability.
Sensibly as we feel ths wound which has been in.
fli£l«d by the tranfafttonsdifclofed in your communi
cations, yet we think with y®u, thar neither the hon
our nor the interefl of the United States forbid the re.
petition of advances for preserving peace. We there
fore receive with the utmolt fatisfa&ion, your infor
mation that a trefh attempt at negociation will be in
diluted ; and we cherish the hope that a mutual fpiiit
of conciliation, and a difpofltion cn the part of
Trance to compensate for'any injuries which may have
been committed upon our neutral rights, and on the
part of the United States to place France on grounds
• similar to those of other countries, in their relation
and connection with us, if any inequality shall be
found to rxift, will produce an accommodation com
patible with the rights, duties and honor of the U
nitcd States. Fully, hawever, impressed with the
unceruinty of the result, we lhali prepare to meet
1 with fortitude any unfavorable events which may oc
cur, and to extricateourfelvcs from their conftquences
with all the flc.i'l we pofTefs, and all the efforts in our
power. Believing with you that the unduft of the 1
goveri.ment has been j.ft and impartial to foreign na- '
' t'onsi that the !»ws f«r tht pielervation of peace have
■ been proper, ana that they have been fairly executed,
, the Reprefentativcs of the People do not hesitate to
, declare, that they will give their molt cordial support
. to the execution of principles so deliberately and up
' rightly eitab lulled.
i The many interefling fublcfts which you 'have re.
] commended to our confederation, and which are io
Hrongly enforced .y this momentous occasion, will
3 receive every attention which their importance de
" mands ; end we tiuli that by the decided and explicit
• conduit which wiil govern our deliberations, every
iofuiuation will be repelled which is derogatory to the
honour and independence of our country.
> Permit u», in o''ering this address, to cxprefi our
, fatiafatftion at your promotion to the firlt office in
. the government, and our entire confidence that the
j pre-eminent talents and patriotism which have
placed you in this diflioguiihcd situation, will ena
ble you to discharge its various duties with satis
" fatSion to yourieif and advantage to our common
- countty.
To which he returned the following answer:
f Mr. Speaker, and Gentlemen of tht Hoitft
of Keprefentatives,
■' I receive with great fatiafa&ioa, your can did
approbation of the convention of Congrels ;
s ard thank you for your assurances that the
> interefling fuhjedls recommended to your con
i fideratien, (hall receive the attention which
- their importance demands ; and that your co
. operation may be cxpedled in those meal'ures
jj whith may appear ncteffary for our security or
peace. _ •
The declaration of the reprefentatlvcs of this
n nation of their l'atisfatJlipn at my promotion to
1_ the firft office in the government, and of their
e confidencein my fincereendeavours todifcharge
d the several duties of it, with advantage to our
j. common country, have excited my most grate
j sal fenfihility.
1 pray you, gentlemen, to believe, and to
" communicate fuih assurance to our couftituents,
that no events which I can forelee t® be attain
t" able by any exertions in the discharge of my
d duties, can afford me so much tordul fatisfae
d tion, as to conduit a negociation with the
French Republic, to a removal of prejudices, a
q correction i f irrors, a dissipation us( mbrages,
an accommodatipn of all difference!, and * re
** Iteration of harmony and sffciilion, ta the mu-
s ' tual fatltfaiftion of both nations : And, whene
'' ver the legitimate organs of intercourse (hall lie
fe reflored, and the real sentiments of the two go
t ve. timeo's cao-be candidly to
each other, although flrangly imprcffcd with :
the nt-ccpit)' of collecting ourl'clv;s into a man
ly poftuie of defence, I nevtrtheiefs entertjin
an encour iging cohfkience, that a mutual spirit
of conciliation, a difj<iliti->n to compenfare in
juries. aud each other in ail our
relations and couneiiliqns, will produce an a-*
jjrecracnt to a trc*ty, confident with the en
gagements, rights, Juties. and lipimur of bocii
nations. JOHN ADAMS. I
United States, June 3, 1797-
Ihe Honi'e having returned, Mr. Smith •
(Ch.) gave notice that ifthehoufe were to go
into coiaiiiittee of ihe 'whole 011 the state of the
Union, to take up the fubjeil matter of the Pre- |
fiiieiit's speech, tint lie had business to prelcilt .
which would require i'tie galleries j
were accordingly cleared. |
At three the house adjourned. I
Before adjournment they determined that the j
biilinrf, brought forward with closed doors did
not require secrecy. The following are the j
propotiuouiintroduced.
ill. Refolded us the opinion of this committee,
That further prsvifion ought to he nude tor
fortifying the parts and harbours of the United
Mates.
2. R*fol-ved, That provision be made by law
for compleating and manning the frigates Uni
ted States, Confl'tution and Conflellation.
3. Refolvcd, Ihat provision he made bylaw
for procuring by purchase, a further naval
force, to conlifl of three frigates of guns,
and fix (loops of war of guns.
4. Refolvcd, That provision be made bylaw
for empowering the President to employ the na
vjl so: ce of the United States as convoys to pro
tect the trade thereof.
5. Refolvcd, &c. For regulating the arming
of the merchant veflels of the United States.
6. Uefolved, That the military ellablilhment
ought to be augmented by an addition of one
regiment, a corps of artilleries and engineers,
and companies of dragoons.
7. Resolved, &c For empowering the Preft
dent to raise a provisional army to confiltof
regiments of infantry, one regiment of artillery
and one regiment of dragoons, by comniiflion
ing the officers an J by volunteers or enliflments,
whenever (he country (hall, in his opinion,
render the said army r.ecefTary sol- the protec
tion and defence of the United States : provi
ded, that neither the officers or, soldiers lhall re
ceive any pay or emolument until called into ac
tual service. . *
8. Resolved, icc To authorize the President
to borrow on the credit of the United States, a
sum not exceeding dollars to defray the
expense which may arise in providing for the
defence and security of the United States.
9. Refilved, &c To raise a revenue adequate
to the reimbursement within years of the
sum as may be borrowed as aforefaid.
10. Resolved, &c To provide for jl limited
.time agamlt the exportation of arms ammuni
tion and military and naval (lores.
•
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, JUNE 5, 1797.
PRICES OF STOCKS.
Philadelphia, Mat 22.
6 per Cent. 16/10
Deferred 6 per Cent, lify i lif
pet Cent,
per Cant.
3 per Ctnt. a 6
BANK SHAKES.
Bank United States, 18 4 ao per cent, advance.
Pennsylvania, %i aIJ l-l
North America, 474 S°
INSURANCE COM PANT SHARES.
I. C. of N. A. SS a 37 i per cent, advance.
Pennsylvania, at par.
Ext raft of a letter from New-York, June 3.
" You fee the triumph of the Argus
writers on the iflue of the late election in
this city. The truth is, nothing was done
to prevent the democratic election—The fe
deral interest is so strong as to have laid its
friends asleep. I trull no evil will ensue
! from this success ; but it will make good
! men more vigilant in future."
By an arrival from Jsarbadoes we have a
confirmation of the aceount that the British
have abandoned Porto Rico—they 101 l up
wards of 250 men, and General Abercrom
bie the Commander in Chief wasbadly wound
ed.—The fleet is tince arrived at Dominico.
Information , from Amsterdam, states, that
a mutinous spirit prevails onboard the Dutch
; Fleet—that several examples had been made
by executing some of the officers and sailors,
' which, however did not cure the mifchief—
the difaffeftion still continuing.
Advices via Charleston, inform that Mr.
ELLICOTT had ascertained, that the line
would cross the river at Loftus's Bluff, which
is 30 leagues below the Natches. Mr. Ellicott
hid experienced various delays and vexations
from the Spanilh officers appointed to meet him;
he had been once on the point of returning, but
latterly their condu<S had been more consistent;
and it is supposed the line will be established be
fore-Mr. Ellicott leaves that part of the coun
try, as the Spaniards had burnt their works,
and withdrawn their garrisons from the Wal
nut Hills»-ind the Natches, both of which places
were considered by the Spaniards as belonging
to the United States.
We have been favered with the following co
py of the proclamation referred to by Mr. Har
per in his speech on Monday last. Our eor
refpondent allures us we may give it as au
thentic.
By Sir Hyde Parker Knt- Vice-Admiral of
the Commander in Chief of His Ma
jelly's (hips and veflels at and about Jamaica
and the Bahama Islands, &c. &c.
It having been represented to me that many
American seamen hive been impressed from ves
sels belonging to the United States of America,
1 and in several mftances no regard paid to pro
' teflipns properly authenticated.
You are hereby required and direSed to give
the mod positive ordeis to #ll officers that may
hereafter be employed upon the imprrfs service,
not to impress American feam;n from veflels
belonging to the United States of America, ind
' that the officers so employed do pay the (IriiHeil
' attention to proteftions that may appear to them
to be authentic.
Given on board his Majesty's (hip
Queen, the 29th Jan. 1797.
(Signed) H. PARKER.
1 Tj» the refpeflive Cap
[ tains of the Squadron.
AUGUSTA, MAY 18.
. It is not at all surprising, that the unfor
tunate jState of Georgia (hould be singled
» out by our enemies, as the properclt to com
mence their plundering fyflem of war upon ;
indeed the leading chnraftirs of our Gov
ernment, appear to be anxiously looking for
ward to the period-that will incorporate
hem with the " terrible Republic." It is
then, and n'ot till then, that the great body
of the citizens will be enabled to diflinguifh
the real friends of good order and govern
ment, from the infernal vipers, who have
stung their repof: for two years pnft. Were
a proof neceflary to lubftantiate the truth of
these observations, we (hould have to trace
no further than to the famous remonllrahce
of the 9th of February last : After reci
ting the many grievances under which the
State laboured from the unprecedented ty
ranny and oppreflion of Congress, it goes
on to observe, " that the great charter of our
liberties, the declaration of Independence,
charged George the Illd as a tyrant, for
raising the condition of new appropriations
of land in the following words : " He has
endeavored to prevent the population of
these Stales for that purpose, refufing to
pass laws to encourage migrations thither,
and raising the conditions of new appropria
tions of land." "The comparison (conti
nues the remonstrance) we are sorry to ob
serve, is but too striking, if not in favor of
the Britilh Government."
This is indeed, as a member of the union,
carrying the principles of expatriation to a
very unusual pitch. But what are we to
think of a man holding a military command,
publicly declaring, that were Ae French to
commence hostilities, he (hould not liefitate
to take a part with them ? We cannpt help
thinking, that the declaration would warrant
an arrest, if the Commander in Chief had
firmnefs, or knowledge of his duty, or in
clination to exercise the authority the Gov
ernment has put into his hands.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, June 3.
Extract of a letter from the Havannah,
dated May 10.
" Had it not been for the firm and inde
pendent conduit of his excellency the Earl >'
of Santa Clara, the present governor of this j
island, our trade would have been as effe&u- '
ally interrupted with this port as it is alrea- '
dy with the British islands by the piratical''
depredations of the French privateers.
" I formerly mentioned to you, that they
had the afiurance to take two American i
ships in one day, almost under the guns of
the Moro, bound in, and that the governor ;
not only ordered them to be instantly deliv- '
ered up, but accompanied that order by a
severe reprimand to the captains of the pri
vateers ; his excellency has since intimated
te Monsieur Bondeneau, the agent or vice
eonful of the French republic, lately arriv
ed here, that he is determined to preserve the :
intercourse of neutral nations with this port 1
free and uninterrupted, and, whatever may '
be their inftrudtions, that the French cruis
ers are on no account to interrupt any neu
tral veflels bound to or from this port ; and
the agent has (as I am credibly informed)
pafled these orders to the captains of the
French privateers that were in this port,
and no instance has since occurred of their
afting contrary to them.
" The present governor is one of the moil
upright, just and independent men that ever
presided in any part of the Spanish. domin
ions ; and has adopted a system so different
from his predecessors, in the dispatch of
public business, that the tedious delays and
difficulties usually experienced here, and
which had become proverbial, exist no long
er in his department. He is to be seen and
spoke with at all hours, by all ranks of peo
ple, and promises to be the molt popular
governor they have hitherto had in this isl
and.
NEWBURRPORT, May 30.
By a gentleman from Wifcalfet we are in. ,
formed, that it is af-eitained the Hon. Isaac
Parker is chosen Federal Representative for
the firit Eastern Dill rift.
Lailson's Circus,
South Fifth-Street
The Public aft refpe.ftfully informed that
The Performances at the NEW CIRCUi
To-Moßßotr Evening, June 5,
Will begin by a Giand Parade of Equestrian
Performers of both ltxes.
AND
A grand display of Horsemanship,'
and other different exercises, by the troop of 1
Equefirian Performers, Tumblers, Dancers. :
After which will presented, (never perfotin
ed in America)
Pierre de Provence,
And the BEAUTIFUL MAGUELONE.
An heroieal, hifforicalPantomine, in three afls,
with new dreffts, military evolutions, battles,
&c. and three new (cenes painted by M.Pe
rouany. It will be terminated by a grand :
tournament, in which fix combats will be i
fought with the fibre, the war axe, the sword
and the dagger.
Box, one dollar. Pit, half a dollar.
The doors will be opened at half pad five
ci'clock, and the performances begin precifsly
at seven.
gj' Mr l.ailfon wishes to take a couple of ap
prentices, of a genteel family, from ten to fifreen
years of age, to whom he will teach the Equestrian
art, and every thing which belongs to his butincls.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies-
MRS. GKOOMBRIDGE with much pleas
ure and refpeA, return* her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years residence in
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the
1 ptiblic, so far froai interring to decline her
ichool, (he has made a superior arrangement for
' the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars. —Every branch of ufc/ul and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridgc and mailers excelling iir their
refpedlive profrfliors.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June jth, • Jiml'tf
The Ctuitiyn is perfeflly healthy ; and made
1 more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
- of jreucd adjoining the hruie. „
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
P-oki" of Philadelphia. .
ARRIVED. Day,.
Ship Thomas, Holland, Liverpool 54
Port/mouth, Mink, Jltadeira 35
Centaur, Henton, St. Crcix 28
Mary Ann, Stewart, St. Üb's 65
Brig Ruby, Church, Georgia IO
Grace, Wills, Amjlerdam, 63
ASive, (late) Welfb, Charleston 10
Sch'r Fanny Bridger, Dunn, New-Tori 3
Thomas, Wood, Bar bales 18
Sally, Hughes, Honduras 24
Three Sifters, Kean, Alexandria IO
Lijbon, Dummond, do. 8
Swift, Hansford, Norfolk, 3
Mary, Woodward, do. 3
Betsey, Bar net, Jo. 4
Sloop Peggy Molly, Devite, Virginia
Harriot, Novaro, New-Tort 3
fane, Green, do. 3
Diamond, Atwood, Hartford 6
Nancy, Eldridge, North-Carolina 8
Oxford, Hammond, Alexandria II
Indujlry, Brown, Norfolk 3
Robert, Ketchum, Savannah - 8
CLEARED.
Ship Indojlan, Lewis, Hamburg
Nancy, Lord, Kenneled
: Brig Eagle, Rundle, Hifpaniala
James, Vanf'fe, Cape-Froncois
Brig Packe V Strong, Charlfhn
Sch'r Maria, Tate, Gonaives
Swallow, Done, v do.
Katy, Dillingham, do.
Charlotte, IVill, Bojlpn
Sloop Nonpareil, Light, Richmond
Harlequin, Crokfay, New-Tori
Indujlry, Jackson, do.
Zoar, Crane, Newport
The Brig, Thetis, from Cuba, is lujl.
The Grace failedfrom Amjlerdam April \JI
in company with the Jhip Lucy, Dill, for Bos
ton, and parted 7 days out, in lat. 60, 50, long.
5. Left at Amjlerdam the Jhip Wilmington,
Hillman, if this port for Lijbon, the brig Mer
cury, Miller, of this port, failed for London in
March. May 22, lat. 38, 50, long. 55, 50,
spoke the brig Fame, laalt, out 12 days from
! hentefor Madeira, all well.
I The Dutch fleet, of 22 two deckers and 2
frigates, were in the Texel when captain Wills
, failed, and expelled to go to sea about the I sih
of that month.
j The brig Eliza, Arnold, andfchooner Dow,
May, from hence, have arrived at Charlejlon.
j The Jhip America, Ewing, of this port,
was at Hamburg the qih of April, diftharging.
j Ship North-America, Coffin, hence to Lon
donderry, arrived the 27th of March, in 37
days, all well.
The following arrivals from the United States
are extracted from Lloyd's Lift to the 11th
of April inc/ujive, brought by the Carteret
jacket.
j General Wrangle, Danberg, from Baltimore,
at Bremen.
Die Soane, Hance, do. do.
Wolthatigkeit, Race, do. do.
Aurora, Johnson, do. do.
William, Tunoker, do. do.
Fame, Bufenburg, do. do.
Republican, Simpfon, do. Rotterdam.
Columbia, —, New-Tori, at Galway
Ceres, Congar, do. Newry
j Gritfmachen, Charlejlon, at Hambro'
America, Ewing, Philadelphia, do.
Golden Rose, Kchn, Charlejlon, do.
Apollo, Jones, Virginia, at Gravefend
. Farorite, Drummond, New-Tori, do.
Eliza, M'Neal, Charlejlon, do.
Tanner, Macey, do. do.
Columbia, Cloufman, do. do.
Fair Columbia, Harrifon, Alexandria, do.
Benjamin ond Nancy, Pearce, Boston, at Dub.
Charlejlon, Oakes, do. do.
Lydia, Sprague, do. do.
Juno, Beard, Wilmington, at Cork
W'tfcaJJct, Plelfon, Wifcajfet, do.
Wajhington, Graham, N. T. do.
I Thames, Wefcott, do. do.
Delight, Wilson, Virginia, do.
: Telemachus, Prince, Maryland, Liverpool
Charlejlon, Fitch, Savannah do.
: Nancy, Whipple, Charlejlon do.
Hunter, Rogers, North-Carolina do.
Wifcajfet, Stitfon, Majfachufetts do.
Bald Eagle, Cajfady do. do.
Minerva, Holbrook do. . do.
Minerva, Robertfon do. do.
George, , Charlejlon, bound to Havre,
at Falmouth
Aurora, Woodbridge, do. Cowes
1 Orlando, Parsons, Boston Eljinore
JeruJhr, Giles, Charlejlon Bristol
| Two Brothers, Portland do.
1 | Polly and Nancy, M' Knight, Maryland, at
Eastbourne
Nova Conta, Hagelbeurg, Charlejlon, at
Gravefend
Caroline, Ingli/h do. do.
Diligence, Wilson do. at Deal
Perseverance, , N. T. at Londonderry
' General Wajhington do. do.
The Betsey, Kennedy, from Wifcajfet to Li
-1 J verpool, has foundered at sea, freight saved.
•- . The D. Forfler from London to New-Tori
t is taken and carried into Morlaix.
Arrived, brig Clarifla, Ltc L otla, from Halifax,
whither Ihe had been font (on her paflage from C.
" Francois to this port) by the Lytix, fiocrp of war.
/ i After being libelled, both vcfTel and cargo were
I clear»d; but sentenced to pay cods, without any
- 1 reason being affigncd. I.fit Halifax 18th ult,
1 New-Tork, June 3.
1 Aumvm days.
• Brig Swallow, Stoddard, Bernfuda 1 f
Mar/, Ward, Amsterdam 65
Schr. , Fowler, Savannah 13
Favorite, Walker, Norfolk 6
Grattan and Compy.
1 T) Efpedfully inform their friends, that they have
1 imported from London per the Clip itar, a
e large assortment of
r PERFU M E R T,
r Which isuow opened for sale at their Store, No
r 181 Market-street.
e Also, » new afloittucnt of ready-made gentle
men'» 1 nen, (hirts from t each.to 8 dollars,
' r &c. &c. <ko.
Ladies and gentlemen are accommodated with
board and lodging a: ten Dollar', rath.
Tnofc Gentlemen who have their own private
e lodgings, may be accommodaud wish dinner only,
>t by the wetk ot month.
1 Juo«s .t;Houfhold Furniture.
NOW felling by private iale, No. I J Tsocfc
ftreet—contiftingol chairs, tablet, locking
rtafTes, bureaus, hand and tire nuns, bedftcad*,
feather-beds, carpets, bedding, window curuios
bed and table linen, kitchen furniture, Jcc. Ihe
wfrote in good order, and has only been a few
months in use.
The I'ale 10 continue diily *tili the whole is fold.
June 2 §
For Sale,
That iucliknown place, called VanDegiift's
Fail,
O~>T Nclhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the IS'ew York port road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premises are a large two ltery (tone home occu
pied as a tavern, and a pood one flory stone kit
chen, a large frame liable with 4 g*v>d threlhinp
floor, and some out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
tills place is a mod elegant situation for a gentle
man s feat,commanding a view of the Nefham
iny to its jun&ion wiih the Delaware, and thence
acrofe to the Jerfty Ihore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Subfwiber,
MORDECAJ LEWIS.
May 24. Jtawtf.
NOTICE.
THE fubferiber having sent by the (hip Nancy,
Capt. Perry, the following certificates of the
United States bank (lock, to wit :
No. 26,0 cj, to 16,014, inclusive, for three
shares e*ch—and the said vcl.el having been cap
tured on her intended voyage to England,
. will most probably occasion the loss of the said
certificates, gives this public notice,
That he shall apply at the proper offices for a re
newal of them, and that means have been taken
to prevent any improper trautfer.
Henry Philips,
No. IJ 3, South Front-street.
Tune r. #iw6w
NOW LANDING,
From on board of the lhip GEORGE BAR
CLAY, Capt. Charles M'Alestzr, from
Calcutta, the following GOODS, viz.
Coflas Punjum Cloths
Hummumi Gurrahs
Guzeenahs India Calicoes,
Emertics . Cotton Cheels
Mamoodits Mlilmuls
Sahans . Red and Blue Bernigou
hkfs
Tickrries P3tna do.
J®llas Santipore do.
Carrie!arrfci. Plain, striped and flower
ed fine muilins
Maragunges Guigbams
Baftas, various forts •Taffeties
Sattln Romals . Bandanno red hks.
ALSO, ,
300 Casks Stigar *
40 Boxes do. ,
l6j Bags do. a
* 70,060 lb. weight heavy black Pepper (
40,000 lb. weight Ginger n
23 Tons Hemp in Bales
9 Pipes East-India Spirits
For file by PHILIPS, CRAMOND £tfCo. ,
May 4. dtf
j
A Quantity of Brandv, )
FIRST & id proof,
Gin, of 4th pr9of, in pipes I
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhijs
Old Hock, in cases of '4O dozei) each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints (
Window Glass, in boxes, of different lizes '
Hazlentits, in forks £
Whiting S
Copperas f . , C
WhireLead f in hhJs I
& Spanilb Bfown J
For Sale bv
PETER BLIGHT.
January 4
Erfkine's View of the War. c
JUST PUBLISHED, '
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second ftre%,
[Price 31 Cents j
A View of the Caafes and Confequen- ±
ees of the present War -with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
M »y *s , §_
The Subscriber,
Determined to retire from bufinefe, invites all
who have anv note, bill, bond or acceptance
o; h:jj now due, to call for payment ; and those
who wilh to anticipate may receive the money
at a reasonable discount.
JAMES SWAN.
May iz.
Dqrcheftcr. ncarßoftoa, 16th May 179?. j
JOHN CRAIG J 1
TT AS just imported from Rotterdam, via St. '
A i. Tho mas, and for sale on reasonable terms
by thepackage,
Platillas Royal
Haerlem and German lineifc A
Rouen*
Poll and Pro Patria Paper r
Wafers £
Quills at
Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles pi
iCoffee Bags de
He has also for Sale, U F
Befl Red Clover Seed c "
OM Madeira Wrhe, fit for immediate use ''
TenenlTe Wineof firft and second Quality fu
Coffee in Bags and Hoglheads
Jamaica Spirits
Conneflicm Turpentine Soap
Window Glass
Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Cotten an
Hosiery 4 ,
April 18. 43 w
Jonathan Harvey,
No.' 106 SOUTH FRONT-STREET,
HAS FOR SALF,
A general aflortment of Dry Goods T
—Amongst which are>— -*•
A few boxes Irish Linens.
May 21 riwfim an
To be fold or let,
And immediate piffiffu.n given, MI
A genteel two story Brick House ; hi
SITUATE on the anper end of Bioad-ftreet, in ju
ttecity of Bur'.iugion, with four rooms and ed
an entry on each floor, good cellars under the m
whole, a pump in the yard, a garden and court tv
yard, containing nearly half an acre under good
trnce, with a liable adjoining the -yard. The
whole property is in good order. tu
K»r terms apply to the fubferiber in Btirlir.gton, j,
who will give a credit for a conCderable part of r ,
the purcbafe money if good security Ujivca.
William Coxe, jun.
May 17. a»wtf
Tlie fubferibers, have for sale, the
t- following Goods, viz :
E" /~\I.D Madeira Wiue, in p.pes.
»*» Port do. in pipes, hogflieads & (jr. calks.
Malaga do. in hjglheads undqr. calks.
Sherry do. in quarter calks.
w Claret do. of excellent quality in bottles.
, RuiT.a Duck.
Do. Diaper and Huckaback.
Coarse Toweling.
Ifing Glass, firft fort.
t Rulna white Soap, cut in fmallbars.
' Mould Candles, in boxes of 6olb weight-
London Perter, in bottles,
f" 100 barrels of good beef.
A wrought-iron Book Cafe.
PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co.
J " Philadelphia, ad June, 1797. d.
if This Day is Published,
'n BY MefT* Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
•. other Bookleilers,
j. rice One Do'tJar and twenty-live cents,
:e Elegant y printed on Wbye paper, and Hot
e ' pr'Jfed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with other, and with
that of the United States; exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Conftitutlon, and
ckfling together their most important provisions,
e under the several heads of adininiftration; with
Notes and Observations.
e By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
1 L L. D. anJ member of the Congrcfs of the
1 United States.
Dedicated to the People of the United States.
• N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
-1 per, at3-4thsof a dollar.
February 6 rtwf
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
At the Merchants' Coffee house, in Philadelphia,
on the 15th day of June, at 8 o'clock in the
evening, if not befofe disposed of at private
sale,
40,931 1-2 acres of land, on the
waters of Wheeling and Fishing creeks, in Wafti
ington county, Pennsylvania. The foil is remark
ably fertile ; andbefides a large body of meadow,
there are considerable improvements on the pre
mifes. These lands were patented in 1787. On
payment of part of thepurchafe money, a reafon
abl§ credit will be given for the residue. Enquire
of the printer.
May 15. §tS
Poft-Office, 23d May, 1797.
THE Mail for Baltimore will be closed at this of
fice every morning (Sundays excepted) at half past 7
o'clock.
The Mail for Boston will be closed every day
(Sundays excepted) at 12 o'clock noon ; and
The Mail for frederica, Mil ford, Clowes, Dagfbo
rough, Delaware, Homtown, Accomack Court-House
and Northampton Court-Houi'e, Virginia, will be
closed every Monday morning at half past 7 o'clock.
May 23. * l2t
Just Arrived,
In thefcjiooner Dove, Captain Paul, from St
Thomas, and for sale by the fubferiber.
Muscovado Sugar in hhds- tierces and barrels.
St. Croix Rum in hhds.
And Laguira hides.
ALSO ON HAND,
Imperial, Hyson, and Skerry and Malaga
Hyson Skin Teas. Wines.
Yellow Nankeens. Holland Gin in pipes.
Canton Cloth. D«* Cheese,
Lutestrings. Do. Glass ware.
Silk Hankarchiefs. China Ware.
Sewing Silk. Window Blinds.
Cotton in bales. Rheubarb. I
Peruvian Bark. Quicksilver, See. ,
JOSBPH SIMS. (
May aid. • .dut.
" A FtWBOXES OF ~
Bologna Sausages,
Of a superior quality, to be Sold at No.
199, South Front-Street.
120, ectf
Received by the Indoitan, ~
From Madras, ii
A SMALL invoice confiding of the following d
Coall Goods, viz.
Blue Cloths
Long Cloths, 14 punjums
Do. do. firie
Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and
Book Muslins
WILLING fcf FRANCIS-
March 27. 3aw
GOLD AND SILVER
Bullion.
THE highest price in ready money will be gi
ven for gold or silver bullion, old gold or
Giver, or gold dust, at No. 79, North Seventh
llreet. -
April 40 aawfiw £
To be Sold, f<
A three Jlory brick House, -with suitable back f'
buildings ; ' r
SITUATE in Vine-street, No. 88, completely I 1
fir.ilhed, and free of ground-rent: It has a
neat back yard, in which is a cistern, and new "
pump for rain water—commodious cellars are un- j l '
derneath the whole, in which is a dry well bricked
up, that will hold ice. This property is well cal- r(
culated for a boarding house. For particnlara ap- ol
ply at th: premises. t\
Immediate poffefliofi will be given, or so as to cl
suit a purchaser._ 0 .
»ay 15. aawtf ol
Valuable Books. "
A new importation, from London, uft received I"
and now opening andfellingbyj. ORMROD,No.. G
41, Chefnut-ftreet. £
March 19.
Musical Injlrument Manufactory,
No. 167, Arch-Street. p
HARPER, harplichord, grand, portable grand,
fid>board, pier table and lquare piano forte
mak. r front London, returns thanks to his Iricnds
and the public, for their liberal encouragement, ,
and hope* that by his afliduity and attention to tv- ! 6
cry branch of his business, to merit a continuance
of their favors. Piano fortes made on the newest Ic
and most approved plans, with pedals, patest,
swell, and French harp Hop, which he flattei s _
himfelf will ue found on trial by unprejudiced ~
judges, to be equal if not superior to any import
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inflru T
m.-nt purchased of him, if 'not approved cf in -t
twelve months, he will exchange. th
, be
N. B. All kinds of Musical instruments made,
tuned, and repaired with the greatest accuracy,
difpatch,-and on the moll reasonable, terms, loi \
ready money only.
~~ re
Scrond h:nd Piano Fortes taken in exchange. th
May at. u3tlm.
Ie Spanilli Language.
WANTED, a person well qualified to trans
late Spani(h papers and documents into the
cs. Englili language. Such a one who can produce
unexceptionable recotnmcndations, and is desirous
of immediate employment, will please to make
application in writing at the office of the Com
miiTioners for carrying into eflfe& the twenty-firft
article of the treaty of limits and navi
gation, between hie Cathoiic majesty and the Uni
ted States of America,— during office hours, ©r
at the office of PETER LOHRA, See*y.
Philadelphia, June I. 2—3p
South wark Printing-Office,
No. 294, South Second-Jlreet,
IF encouraged, Timothy Mountford, will pub
lish from this office, a newspaper, entitled, Tbe
Soutfnparl Gazette, and Philadelphia Regijler; the u-
tility of which, no one can doubt of who conlidcrs
the distance between this and other offices.
He will fend papers on the morning of every
Thursday and Saturday, to such places as his sub
scribers fliall diredl.
The price of this Gazette will be Four Dollars
per year, payable as follows: One dollar when
called fop—one dollar at the expiration of fix
months—and one dollar at the end of every fubfe
qutnt term of three months,
h Literary eflays wiil be gladly received and in
s, ferted gratis—Advertisements at the usual rates,
d ss* Apply to William Robinson,jun. Esquire,
s, at his house in front of the office, who will receive
h fubfcriptioiis.
Subscriptions will also be received by the follow
ing pentlemen, viz. Mess. Young, Mills Son,
Thomas Dobfon, John Ormrod, William IV. JVovd
c ivardy and Samuel Richardet, Merchants* Ceffee-
House.
May 19. 3P-
Richard Bayley & Co.
j Late John Whitesides & Co.
No. 136 Market Jlreet,
'' T TAVE received per the fliips William Pcnn and
c 1X Star from London, a large and fafhiouable as
" fortment of the following articles : viz.
Chintzes, and printed Cottons, of the newest
J patterns
Furniture Dimities and ChUtzea
Ginghams, plain and figured,
Muslins, printed and embroider'd
Do. tambeur'd, plain, check and flrip'd
, Do. tamboured, of a very superior quality
Fine Book, Jaconet and Decca Handkerchiefs
. Dimities and muflinets
Damafc table-linen, in setts and in the piece
Diaper ditto in Cloths and in ditto
Holland and Ruflia Sheetings
Loop'd Hollands and Irish Linens
Long Lawns and Cambrics
Sattins and Silks, plain and figured
Ribbons and Gloves
Crapes and Gauzes
1 Straw, Chip, and Paper Hats and Bonnets, new
shapes
Fancy trimmings, &c.
: With a variety of articles in the Linen-Drapery
and Haberdashery line.
May ai §»ot'
To be Sold,
A large and convenient
Three Story Brick House;
Srru. TE at the north-east corner of Arch and]
Fourth-streets. It contains eighteen rooms— :
and is in every refpefi well finifhed. For particu
lars enquire of
M. Keppele,
No. 138, Chefnut-ftreet.
May 31. ■ J ,
For Sale,
ON board the ship Molljt, John Frost, mafler
from Liverpool, laying at Walnut-street wharf
6000 bushels of fine ftoved Salt,
And QUEEN'S WARE, well aTorted,
By PHILIP NICKLIN & Co.
WHO HAVF. IN STORE, ALSO FOR SALE,
100 Boxes WhiteHavann* Sugars
Imperial and ) m
Hyson \ 1 £ A s
17 tubs Qiiickfilver
2chelts Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chests Manchefler Goods well assorted
in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, mnfliuets,
dimities, &c. 2 Trunks black sewing filfc,
ISO Crates queens ware, well assorted,
10 Tons lheet lead,
Nails assorted, fiat and sharp points,
London particular and 1 Madeira Wine in
India market j pipes and hhds.
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Teneriffe VViue,
10 pipes choice Port ditto,
31 casks yellow paint,
7 boxes 12 bundles writing flatej,
1 box ink-ftasds & note presses,
Sail canvas assorted No. 1 a 8.
Ms Y4- dtf !
TO BE SOLD, '
A valuable three story Brick House ; 1
SITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank 1
Pennsylvania, tbe lot on which it Hands, to- 1
gether with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex- 1
tends to Goforth-flreet. The house is about 50 f
feet in front en Lodge-alley, and about 42 feet
in depth, the adjoining lot is jibout 96 feet
front on Lodge alley, and 42 feet on Goforth- v
street, being a street which leads from Chefnut- T
street and Carter's alley into Dcok-ftreet at the ,
horse market. The house confifls of ten lodg- c
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dining j
rooms, one of them forty feet in length, the a
other about thirty-four feet, each containing c
two fire placss, two parlours and a large kit- c
chen, with extenlive cellars under, and garrets
over the whole, a privilege of a vacant lot a
of ground to the eastward between this house o
and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the b
yard, a handsome piazza fronting the vacant ;
lot, and a frame liable and dwelling house on e
Goforth-ftreet. The premises now rent for I
£.3'S per annum. To be fold clear of all in- d
cumbrances.
For terms apply to John Clement Stacker.
April to 3awtf
■ ... h
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turn- ],
.pike Company. "
- d;
A meeting of the Stockholders of the Phila- 41
delphia and Lancaster Turnpike Company, will l !
be held at the Company's Ofiiee, on Monday,
to o'clock, the 12thJune next. P
WILLIAM GOVETT. Sec'ry.
Mav '*• fr 4w.
1 ■ —■—-—■ r
Do£tor Perkins
INFORMS the citizens of Philadelphia, that he
has taken lodgings for a few days at the sign of w
the Indian Queen, south Foyrth-ftreet. He will
be happy ts wait on those who wilh to fatisfy ___
themselves of the officacy of his
Patent Metallic Points ;
And will operate gratis for the relief of the poor
at his lodgings, where he ha- ior sale the inflru
ments, with th« u'iccfiary iuflru&ions for
them.
May 19, dtf
THE FOttOWJfc.'G VALUABLE
Tradls of Land,
ie TN the cour.ty of Glynn and ftatc of Georgia,
c i- will be fold by public sale, at tight o'clock
14 on the evening ot'TuefJay the 27th day of June
;e next, at the Merchants Coffee-Hodfe ic this ci
!- ty, unless previously disposed of by private sale.
ft ift. 7000 acres on St. Simons Sound at the
i- confluence of Frederica and Turtle rivers, ad
j- joining the commons of the toivn of Brunfwick,
ir originally granted to John Howell, and within
6 n iles of the Atlantic ocean.
2d. 25,000 acres en the head water* of a
- branch of the great Eattilfc, originally granted
to Ferdinand O'Neal.
3d. 50,000 acres on the waters of the little
Satilla river, and of Buffaloe and Alexanders
Creeks ;"the great Satilla road pafies through
thel'e lands, wluch were originally gnnted to
Ferdinand O'Neal.
*" 4th. jo,ooo acres on the great Satilla fiver,
ri which are also interfered by a branch of the
little Satilla, and were originally granted te
* Thomas Spalding.
It appears by authentic certificates from
r5 Thomas Davis, surveyor, and from Major
n Hopkins now reiiding in Philadelphia, that the
, x body of these lands are not thirty miles from
the ocean, and principally within tide water;
that the Alatamaha is navigable for boats and
1. rafts two hundred miles above, and for large
veflels within ten milesnfthem ; that they are
c, chiefly firlt rate pine lands, producing timber
■e equal in quality to any in the state of Georgia,
poffefiing the fame advances of navigation.
The abovementioncsd certificates, together with
the patents, drafts, andother papers refpeftiiig
the title, which is complete and unincumbered,
are in the poffefiion of the fubferibers and may
be seen by applying to Benjamin R. Morgan, at
_ No. 5, South 4th Street. The terms of pay
ment will be one third cash, the remaining two
thirds in good negotiable endors'd notes, paya
ble in three and fix months after the sale ; a
conveyance to be made to each putchafcr on the
payment of that moiety of the notes received
1 from him which becomes firft due.
THOMAS FITZSIMONS,
JEREMIAH PARKER,
1 BENJAMIN R.MOKGAN.
Philadelphia, May 31, 1797. eodtf.
The Commissioners
FOR carrying int# effeft the TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendship, Limits,
and Navigation, between His Catholic Majesty
and the United States of America, hereby give in
formation to all Persons therein oonctrnedThat,
in order to terminate all differences, on account of
the Isfles sustained by the Citizens of the United
State*, in consequence of their Vessels and Car
goes having been taken by the Subje&s of His Cath
olic Majesty, during the late War between Spain
and France, that they are ready to receive (at their
Office, between the hours of ten and one o'clock,
daily) all complaints and applications, authorized
by the said Article, during Eighteen Months,
from the day of the d€te hereof, and that&hey have
power to examine all such persons as tome before
them, on or affirmation, touching the com
plaints in question, and also to receive in evidence,
all written taftimony, authenticated in such man
ner as they shall think proper to require or admit.
By Order of the Commissioners,
, * PETER LOHRA,
Secretary.
i C tnmijiontrs Office, Ac. 109, Mulberry
reel, Philadelphia, May l~th, 1797.
Millinery Room,
No. 136 Market-Jlreet.
MISS CHRrSTAL
TAKES an early opportunity of acquainting
her Friends that she has received by the
William Penh, a variety of NEW MIL
LINERY, &c, which she hopes to be able to
fliew them in a few days.
May 18 J, ot
Lanca/ier, Harrijburgh, Carli/le,
Sbippenfburg and Sunbury
S T A G E S.
THE public are requested to take notice, that
the partaerihip which has far sometime sub
sisted bet wean Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, it now diffelved: but, not as M.
Slough insinuates to the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je<ft from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
December lad. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
more citcumftantially inf#rmed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal ef M. Slough's letter, and then can be i
at full liberty to determine whether or not W. ]
Geer is not perfediy juftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the profecutioii of the 1
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public wore pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this business, William Geer, in conjuntflion with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Wi'.mer, is determined '
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and iifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
j with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
1 render the passage Jafe and commodious, inform -
thofs wno wifb to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign ©f the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelpfcia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrilburg,
Carliile and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
eftablilhed.
For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will start every WedneiiUy from the house
of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from thc»ce and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that passengers destined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon-
WfLLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 27, 1797.
N. B. This Line ef Stages starts from the
house of William I'crrac, in Lancaster, on every
Taefday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the weftwSrd; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrjfburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence ®n every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadel
phia. mwf
A Comptiijg House to let.
THE Compting House formerly occupied by
Mr. John E. Caldwell, on Rofs' wharf, will
be vacant on ift June —and for hire to any person
who may apply for fame. For terftis enquire of Bl
the printer here»f.
3'- . fn6p J,,
To Let,
Andpojfejjloi given in Itvo iveekt,
A good 3 story Brick House*
With back buildings—No. 43, Sprucc-flrtot. fa
Apply at No. 109 Sprute-ftreet. fti
May §s t
St. Andrew's Society.
AT a quarterly meeting of the St. f.n.lrew
Society, held at the Colden Swan, last evening,
the following gentlemen were unanimoufiy ele&cU
'* members thereof;
Lurd Henry Stewart,
The Honorable Thomas M'Dor.aU,
~ Mr. Will •am Alexander,
t, Cap:. Duncan Rofc,
u Mr. James Tborbur,
Mr. James Stuart, jun.
•* Mr. Willi air. Gardner,
Mr. Samuel Campbell, ef N. 2~.
, The treifurrr, Mr. Shields, pref:nted to ihc
Meeting the Patement of the funds of the focicty ;
s whereupon, it was
llefolved, that he be requetlei to continue his
0 strenuous exertions to eollaft ia the arrears liua-to
the poor f»n«l, and to make report oi Kit fucctfs
"> thereiu at the next quarterly meeting.
® Richard Lake, Secretary.
June I. 3p
r Venereal Complaints,
e attended to in every of
that disease, without the use of merctiry or
restraint of diet, iiKariy cafe recent and simple, on
d application at [Nojij, Chtfnut-frreet, eppofite
e the United States bank, or at No. 170, South Wa
e ter-ftreet, between Spruce and Pinc-ftaeets, where
r he has opened an office for the better accommoda
, tion of his patients.
1. But >n Lues Venerea confirmed, Dofior Morgan
I, pledges hirofelf, that no fyft'em of cure (how ev«r
rr i Specious) can be eiT"ev2ual without mercury, and
, known rules of pradice for thele two
centuries pad, and united experience affirm!, that
' t any fubftitut# for it is but nugatory, and any mode
of praftice to the contrary mu:i be futile and dc
ceptious.
Neverthelef9, he undertakes, however compli
cated the cafe, to effeft a cure without inconve
a nicl,cc or '"jury to the patient's constitution, and
e in time net generally experienced or expeded.
n N B " e S u ' ar attendance at the office in Water
ftreet, from the hour of nine o'clock in the morn
ing until one, and from three o'clock in the even
ing until seven; but any o'her time at his dwelling
house, in Chefnut-ftreet.
> 6 - dtf
For Sale,
By Samuel Breck, jun, at his Compting-houfe N»
89 South Third-street, . ' '
A quantity of the bejl
' Boston mefi Beef in whole aad half barrels,
fit for (hip's use
Do. Pork do.
f A quintity of Sherry Wine
[ A few Pipes Oil Proof Brandy, just landed
from Bordeaux
Chocolate in Boxes
, Rice, Cotton, CaflileSoao, and
Fonr or five Bales large Orange Peels, &c.
, May 27 . <ro6t
, Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
■VTOTICE is hereby given to the Sliarebold
, ers, that a further afle/Tment of fifteen
dollars is levied on each ftiare, payable in the
following instalments—viz.
One quarter immediately.
One quarter on the ill of June.
One quarter ou the ift September.
..... ° ne quarts on the ift Dec. next.
Which they are reqaelled to pay to the Tiea
furer of the Company at the Company's Office,
No. S3 north Fourth street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed that en their negledling to pay the
fame as above direaed, the several forfeitures
direiled by the Con.litution, willl be exaded.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE,
__ Treasurer.
. Ma v I' Sim
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. fit Co.
No. 8 ChtfouS-Street,
HaVe for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly assorted, very low on
ffiort credit.
March 6. §
Maurice Moynihan,
No. 81, North SecondJlreet,
A few doors above Arch-street,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he his
for wholesale or retail, on the lowefl terms, a
general affortmerit ef Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
tumblers, plain and flawered quart, pint, half pint,
gill and half gill do. exaft n» afures, decanters and
wine glafies ; gallon, half gallon, quart and piot
bowls, and chi.-a in sets and separate ; pdeket
bottles: Schuyikill and J erie.y "country quart and
half gallon bottles; Dry Goods, &c. &c.
N. B. Crates put up with care at the fliorteft no
tice.
May 11. dtf
ilzekiel Hall
HAS removed his Comptine Room to TonesS
Wharf, where he has for sale J
24 hogsheads Cod Fish.
A Jiore to let,
In Water-street, between Market and Arch-ftre<ts.
Ma Y 1 9- 6p
Rofs & Simfbn,
Have for Sale,
A QUANTITY OF PRIMS
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lilbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Calks
A few Quarter Chells bell
Firffi Hyson and ?
. Hymn Skin jit AS
Alufcovado Sugars in Hogsheads, and
Coffee in Tierces
March 1. || tf
Just Received,
From Batavia (via Providence)
170 Sacks of Java Coffee of fir ft quality
aoo hall sacks do. do.
A few Boxwof Spires, confilting if
Nutmeg, Cloves and Mace
r. For iaie by
H'IILTNGStf FRANCIS,
■ . Penn«flreet.
Mi y J9. dtf
Loft—A Gold Bracelet,
Marked S. H. with a double Chain. Any
person whociay have found it, and will return
it at No. 47, Pcwi-ftreet, will be hindfome'y
rewarded.
May i 7. dtf
Dutch Gunpowder.
'A quantity of the best Dutch Gtinpowder for
sale by Samuel Breck, jun. Ne. 89, south Third
ftreet.
May *?• eo6t
May i?.