AND Jt Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
N I'M BP?. 1552. j
SALES BY AUCTION.
L-
- Stated Sales
For DR 1' GOODS.
C Forenoon —F.dward Fox, No., j6,
j ) south Front-street,
"-'"^Afternoon —Footman & Co. No. 65
(_ South Front-street.
Fai-enoon—John ConniJly, Old Citr
_ ~ ) Aui£iir>n, No. 73 foum Front flrret.
l!r j a y\ Afternoon —William Shannon, No.
C 183 High-street.
~r , r , (Afternoon —Peter denfoa, No. 74
hcJteflay) fomh Thi ,. d .(l rcet .
rr, r , C Forenoon—Edward Fox.
jurf ay Afternoon —John Connelly.
IP ~ 7 Forcnoofi—Williaig Shannon.
r "' a y •, Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Bejifon.
White Havanna Stigar.
1461 boxes "> of very superior quality now difcharg*-
75 hhds. J ing from tfee ship HamUurgb Packet,
Street wharf—and for sale by
Philip Nicklin & Col
N. B.
the smr
£ Harr\burg Packet,
® ILAS WA,N > Matter,
p or Sale, or Charter.
A eot f
TO BE SOLD VERT CHEAP !
A Light W AGGGN almost new, with a frame—
and a pair of harness (Englilh collars) has never
been used—price 90 Dolls.
A Horse 16 hands high, fjven years aid—and a
new chair, with a Jailing top and harni I * 3
Enquire No. 331, Market-Area.
Acgutl 24. Jw
' THIS 1) >Y IS Fl. B1
By THOMAS DOBSON, at the Stone House,
No. 41, south Second street.
Letters and Conversations,
Between fevtral TouegLaiict } on improving and in
terelling fubjctfls. '
Translated from the Dutch of Madame dt Camion,
with alterations and improvements,
Printed n Jim fa fir, and neatly found,
t i Price one dcliar.
AM IDST the tide ps modern Romances, painting
riles of extraordinary distress, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
he ignorant of, this little book comes forward to fo
lkit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, beeuule
tlegunt and natural dignity and importance of the Female
tbare&er is exhibited in an intereftingpoiot of view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publisher was so mush plcafedwith the peru
sal, that he he (hould do a' pleasing
service to the community by fending it in o circu
lation. August 14—m wf 4 w .
""" THIS DAY WA> I'UiiLIsUED,
And for tale by IHOMJS DOBSON, at the
Stone House, No. 4', south Second street,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Confining of a variety of Mifecliancous Pieces for
theinftruAion and ainufement of YOUNG
—SixVoluraefJiandfotnely printcdand bound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollar*.
The variety and excellence of thefc piece* are
such, that the book Reeds only tq He known to be
universally efleemed one of the valuable pub
lications tht can be put into the banc's of young
pfcrfons.
l< Delightful taflc to tear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea bow tu lhoot,
To .pour tim frefh idftruAion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The g«nerfus purpose in the glowing breast."
Thom:ONh
August 24. / ' mwf4w
""COMMISSIONERS' SALES,
THE Commiflioners of the coudties of Ly
coming and Northumberland, have given
notice that they intend to proceed to the sale of
land?, for the arrearage of taxes, 011 the ;th of
September next.
cr The different printers in this city will
render an efl'ential service to a great number of
individuals by publishing this notice#
Anj. I : 8. .
FOR SALE,
BRETAGNHS in cases
German Checksin do.
Cambrick
Pkttillas
Oznsbrig?
Gold and silver Watchee
Winjlow Glass 10 by 8
Glass Tumblers in cases
Linseed Oil in ealks, fee. &c. ,
' George Pennock
Jnly 5. 3aw
N O TIC E.
IF Thzdv O'Hara. who some years fineekept
Schocl at the Nine Bridges, Queen's County, Eaf
torn Shore, Maryland, be living, he h hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. Ambrose
Marihal, near Warwick, Cecil County, Eastern
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will receive in
<erefting information.
August 4. mw&f4W
THE SUBSCRIBERS,.
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREENLEAF,
HEREBY give notice, that they have difpol'ed
<tff the property afligned to them for the securing
the payment of the note?, accepfance9, and en
dorlements given by Edward Fox, for the use
of the said James Greenleaf; and the holders of
iuch notes, acceptances, and endorsements, are
hereby notifyed that th« fubferibers will futtle
with them for the amount of* their refpedive
claims, botlt PRINCIPAL and INTEKIST, at
any time before the icth day of Oilober next;
After which day, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of align
ment.
Applications to be made at south-east corner
of Dock and Second streets (the Dock-ltrcet
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
♦lock every day, Sundays excepted. 1
Henry Pratt,
Tho. W. Francis,
John Miller, Jun.
John AJhley,
Jafob Baker.
179;. d
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, AUGUST 30, 1797
United States, 1 tr
Pennsylvania DiftridL J
IN pursuance of a writ to me dire<fts<i from the
honorable Richard Peters, Esq. Judge of the
District Court of the United States in and for the
Ponnfylvania Di&riiSt, will l>e exposed to Pirblic
Sale, at the Merchants* Coflfee-houfe, in the city of
Philadelphia, on Monday, the eleventh day of
September next, at ta o'clock at noon,
ifS&TI The BriganthiCj called the
i'Si M A R I A,
KjfWJgSki With allandfingalar the tackle,ap
riarel and furniture as they now are ;
the said Brigantine having been condemned to pay
Mariners &c.
Wsi. NICHOLS, Marjhal.
Marlhal's Office, 7
August jo, 1797. S
N B. The Inventory may be feea at my OffUe
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM' YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut Greets,
Prut 3-Btbs of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents
.Contained in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the cd/.RuK or specdhtioi agsinft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the is FULL\
REFUTED.
tr himself.
This publication presents a concise statement
of the baife means pradlifed by t+ie Jacobins of the
United States to asperse th« chara&crs of thof*
parsons who arc conlidered a« holt lie to their difcr
ganizing schemes. It also contains the c,or
rcfpond.nce between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, On the fub
je<S of the.documeats tforefaid, and a Tories of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving Leyond the polfibillty of adoiAt,
thar the conn- <3 ion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring conspiracy on th* part
of the latter and his aflbciates to extort money.
A discount ol one third from the retail price
wiil be made in favor ol wholcfale purchasers, for
cash. Orders to be addrefied to Mr Yo»n«.
Auguji 4 J •
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every Tuefdai, TLurfday, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, ia the irorning ; arrives atDo
vv the firft day, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the paffengcrt fiud
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey th«m to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
every Tuefdiy, Thursday and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
MonJay, Wednesday and Priday ;|putsup at Snow
Hill thciirft night, at Dover the id night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
. da T-
Thediftanee on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, it to miles less than on any stage route
between those places.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is rijoft excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fsrc to any
paflengcr, who, after having perfoi aaed this route,
wHI fay that hi rvtr travelled in a stage for tho fame
distance, so good a road in America.
Auptift 11, dim. eotf.
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Amderdam and Hamburg, and forfait by
B. y J. Bohlen,
A large ajfartmcnt of Jine French Cambrits,
Platillas KufliaandDutch sailcloth
B' ittanniaa Writing, port, and print-
Rouanes , inp paper
Brown Holland Dutch calf flcin*
Checks and flripes Prime madder
Ticklenburgs Shell'd Barley
Oxnahurgs Looking g!a(Te«
White (hectings Hollow glafe ware
Wiaper Slates
Brown rolls Coffee mills 1
Umbrellas Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes snd flraw knives
Black and whitelaeet Tovs afiorted in boxes
Btft Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Madeira Wine
July 24. m&thtf
IMPO R T E D
Inthefhip America, James Ewinj, mailer, from
Hair.hurjh,
Erown Holland*!
White Platillas
Ticklcnbnrgs
Coatfe Linens ,
Tapei
l ooking G!a(Tes 7 -
GUf* Tumbler, J ,n cafe *'
FOR SALE IT
George Pcnnock.
Avgufl 14. 3aw
Young Hyson 1 ea.
40 fhefts of a superior quality—Also,
100 do. of Hyson,
Imported in the IVoodrop Sim], and for sale by
the fubferibers, corner of Second and Pine
street.
C. Haight.
June a*. eotf
Health-Office, Philadelphia, 7th June, 1797-
r T I HE Board of Htaitb offer to rent out the NEW
1 CITY HOSPrrAL, usually called The tVig
wa m.
It maybe occupied as a Tavern, for which there
ars excellent accommodations. The pcrfogttaking
it mud be capable and willing to a& in ihe tapaci
ty of a Steward; in cafe a coi]tagcous disease in
the city, Ihould at any tjme r«nder it necessary to
make use of the premises as a Hospital. It cannot
therefore b« let fcr any limited time—and the red
oainted frame building is to be referVed. Propifalt
in writing wi'l be received at this office, dating
what rent will be allowed under the forejoing'cir
cumftances. Vonc need apply without being able
to produce the beil recommendations.
JOBM MILLER, Jun.
Chairman of th« Baard of Health.
July 3.
Imported in the flip Pigou,
And for l'ale by John Morton, No. Iv6,Sojth
Front-il fleet,
Hyson
Hyson Skin ( rEAS
io"ng Hylon C
Imperial j
April 2Q. eotf
By John Fen no, N O, 119 Chefnut Street.
MRS. G !•: \TTAN ]
.INFOU MS., her,.friec J «d th« puhlie in general,
that her frouiJ, No. 191, larket-llreet, will'con- ]
tinue open jjekri?f».
Board and I.odging in t separate room, ten
bollars, in a double room, eight Oott,ARS.
For the cenvinience of tKwfe gentlemen who
have not thoir amilies in town, Mrs. Grattan
will receive gentlemen to dine at iiAte a boclah ;
a day. Auf.,;! 10,—11
TO'BE SO L b, ""
Andpoffejjion given immediately,
ALARGK two story brick Hoofe,handfomely
fitaated in Princeton. There are four room*
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings 51 feet in
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. There is a pump
in the yard, an exuclleuf kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a eariiage bouse and two
llaMes, one of yhicii is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two (tables for 2 J horfo. The heal- J
thinefs and pleafantnefi ot its situation, and the (
number of genteel and agreeable families in and (
near the town, render it a desirable retreeat for a ]
gentleman from the city. The comhiodionfnefs of -
the house, its central petition, and the largeness of j
theftables, make it every suitable for a tavern, for
h has always been considered as a capital |
Hand. Inquire on th« premises, of
-ISAAC SNOWDEN, jun.
Prinecton, Ang. 2; J9*-dlw2.aw»f
COUGHS ,C OLD S7~A ST H M A
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just received, by Wm. GeirriTf|s,No.lJ7 ) Soutli
Second-street, a freSi supply of
Genuine Balsam of Honey, ,
A Medirinc invented by the late Sir John Hill I
(who knowledge as a Bota'nift procured him j
the appellation ®f th« Linn»us of Britain) and is |
•onfidered in England as a certain cure for the above
complaints ; it is also cf finjjujar efficacy in the
Hooping Cough,
It nvy aifai pe had retail fl«f W. A. Stokks,No.
61, South Second street, and T. StHf/, jj, New
ftreet, in bottles at 75 ceots f ath.
Wm. Griffiths having obl'erved the happy ef- 1
fe<ft of the medicine, (several cases of cures hav
ing come within his own knowledge) and the great
demand for it has induced him to order a Targe
supply, a part of which he has just received.
Auguji 3. 4 law3w
A Cook wanted.
A WOMAN who underftandi the buKnefs aed
can bring good recommendations, may find employ
and receive generous wages by applying at No. £;,
north Seventh-ilreet.
Asiguft 15. *}t
Wanted to purchase,
A pair of flotit, well broke Herles, young and
found. Enquire at Mr. Oellers' Hotel, Chefaut
ftreet.
Application must be made immediately.
Auguji i» *it
InfuranceCmpanyof Noorth America
~r. /
THE Stockholdert in this company are here
by informed, that, pursuant to the fifth
clause of their Charter, add at the reqneft of a
"NuaJierof Stockhidders, who, together-*rc
pfoprietors as Six Thousand Shares, and up
wares," a general meeting of the Stockholders
will be held at the Co>»pany'« Ofifiee, on Mon
day the ajth day of September next, at n
o'clock, A.m. for the purpose of filling up a
vacancy in their Direction ; and taking into
consideration such ReguUtiont or Bye Laws as
may be presented in conformity with the Char
ter of Incorporation.
EDEN. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
July ao. w\ftSa.?
The Parmerfhip,
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN 15* Company,
is difiolved by mutual consent. All persons
having any demands against tke said House are de
sired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to theHfcufeare desired to make pay
ment to him—By whom will in future be
carried on, at his Store, No. 39, South Front-ftr«%.
duvuft 7 fQC»W V
PETER BORGER,
INs ORMS his friends and the public in general j
that ho has removed from No. i 29, corner of'
Arch and Fourth, to No. 105 North Front, be
tween Arch and Race llreets.
July a-. 1 law4W
Rofs S3* Simfon,
UAVE FOII SALE—
r Hog(heads,
Excellent Coffee in < Tierces, and
C Barrels.
A (mall parcel of nice cocoa in bag»
a few puncheons Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior Tereriffec wine, old and in Madeira pipes
An invoice of jewellery and hosiery to be fold by
the package
A few hampers bed Eriglift cheef<».
J ly >7-
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and clieaper than any other in
the Citv —
OF rARIOUS SIZES,
From Bbv 6 to 19 by 14,
By the fwgle Box or Quantity, may be had at the
S ore of the Subscribers, corner or Areh and Froat
llrcet.
James C. Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, June 9* 17#7>
This Day is Published,
BY Mess. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
othei«Bookfellers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents.
Elegant y printed on IVove paper, and Hot
prifd,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIK A s OF
The Constitutions
Of tfie several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of each Conftitnticn, and
clalHng together their most important provisions,
under the leveral heads of administration ; with
Notes and Observations.
By WILIJAM SMITH,
Of Suuth-Carolinef,
L L. D. and member of the Congress of tltc
United States.
Dedicated to tha People of the United£tate».
1 N. B. A-few Copies printed on ia inferior pa
per, at 3-4thscf adoUat.
FeUruaiy i jr.wf
Imported inthefhip Manchester,
Benjamin SHsrwEkt, Maft'er,
From BourJeaux, am! !W ialfe by the fuofcriber,
No. 11 Walnut St eet.
Bonrdeaux Brandy
Irish market claret in cases ( Entitled tia
Medoc wine, in . do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
v WHO HAS FOR SAT.E.
Sherry Wine in pfpts and quarter caflcs
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bu/hels Liverpool fait. t
Aug. 24. tuts:stf. .
A PERSON OF INGENUITY, lately arrived
from Europe, wifbes to find here a place in
the quality of a Dire&or of a Olafi-houfc, Chryf
tal of all kinds, having particular means for the
conftruflion of t,he kilns, pots, Ike. and polTefling
li'nCwife the articles used in the Glals houses of
E.ig!and a»d Frauce, having w#rked a long while
in meft of'them. Every exertion will-be made to
render the manufactory deserving of public appro
bation—Ke, who willies to speak to him, Will find
him at No. 275 Front-ftieet.
Auyufl 14. *4t
sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the Stale-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth flieet ; there are at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Alfa, for tfale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. fitu,ate on
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saliafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thefc houses
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour fa£lor,or others who
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
forcalh. For further information apply to the
printer.
July 31. m&wtf
The Sub/criber has for Sale,
A large afiortment of India Muslins,
coarse and fine
Tndia Calicoes
Sooty Romalls
B'ue Cloths and Checks
Bandanpa Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Oilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irilh Linens and Sheetings, wail
afforded
A box ef Diapers
SiUc Umbrellas
Two boxes ef fine Spices, ceuiaing Nutmeg*,
Mace and Cloves
Black Pepper of firft quality
East India tjinger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wine
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimihme
Mordecai Lewis.
Auguji It. 3«wim
Cea'er Shingles.
np«E fubferiber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar
X Shingles c( a' superior quality, for sale at 13
dollars p»r thoufind.
William Hallowell,
Ne. 193 North Third-Jlreet.
July a?. eoixt
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
r pHAT agreeably to an a& of Congress ef the
_L United States of America, paffej at Phila
delphia, the lßth day of May, 1796 ; layiug du
tiet on Carriages, for the conveyance of persons,
which fliall be kept by or for any person, for his
or her ortolet out to hire, or for the
conveyance of pafiengers, the several duties and
rates following, to wit :
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
Upon every CI ariot, n dols.
upon every Post Chariot, 11 dols.
upon every Post Chaise, 11 dols.
upon every Pliacton, with or without top,
9 dols.
upon every Coachee, 9 do!«.
upon Other Carriages, having pannelwnrk
above, with blinds, glasses or curtains,
9 dols.
upon four wheeled Carriage*, having fra
med polls and tops with steel springs, 6
dols.
■pon foUr wheeled Carriages, with wood
eiyir iron springs or jacks, 3 dols.
upon Curricles with tops, 3 dt>ls.
«pon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
u 011 other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carnages, with steel or
iren springs, 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, idols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed posts and tops, and retting up
on wooden spars, 1 dols.
The Collectors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Diftridt of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, .until the 30th day ef September n-xt, lor
the .purpose of receiving the dit ies oti Carriages, at
No, 117, in Race or Saffafras-ftreet, in the City ot
Philadelphia; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efq.
in the County of Montgomery; and at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ;
of which all persons poffefTcd of such Carriages are
desired tQ t alee notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealer* in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors, tiiat licences will be grant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the busi
ness of retailing of Wines, in a leis quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities thau ao gallon?, ?t
the fame time and at ti)c fame places, by the oiic
crs legally authorifedta efant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
of the Revenue of the firft fnr
veyof theDiftri&of Terinfylvania.
OfTice of Infpe&jon at j J!n
Philadelphia, j«l x 7?7• j . ,
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto ditto Claret in cases
Just received, and for Sale by
RundJe y Leech.
Aug. n. aawtf
Philadelphia, 15th July, 1797.
NOTICE is hereby given, that separate |>rp
pofals with fesled covers \tiiibr received
at my office until iheelevem'h day of September
»next, to f'urhifh by contraift the following ar
ticles for the life cf the Army of the Uilitti
States in the j>ear 1798.
First Contra>s\ for
-8 Sergeants coats "J
2 Mufuiaus, do.
' Jo Sergeants veils Dragoon*.
126 Privates coats
126 Private* veils J
64 Serg'cants coats
31 Mulkiarw, do.
-9c Sergeants vests
19s- Woden overalls ' Artrllerift*
J9l Uneß uveralls i&
936 Privates caats Engineers.
936 do. vests
1872' Woolen overalls
1872 Linen do.
144 Sergeants coats
72 Muficiaus, do.
2i6 Sergeants veils
43* Ijnen overalls
432 Woolen do. v Infantry.
1893 Privates coats
, 18.9* d®. vests
3784 Wookn overalls
3784 Linen do.
ill Contrail, for 1288 Sergea*ts Ihirta,'
118x6 Privates do.
lt6oo Socks
id Contrail, for 272 pair leatherbreeche*
3d Central, for 372 pair boots
4600 pair U.Des, No. 1
Bcoo parr do. No. 2
4th Contrafl, for 1032 Artillerists and Eagir
ntera hats
aioß Infantry do.
136' Dragoon caps
The wliele to be delivered at the city of Phila
delphia, via.
One fourth on or before the 13th day of Fe
bruary next.
One fourth on or before the 15th day of A
pril *ext.
The remaining half on or before the 15 th day
of June next. /
The articles are to be agreeable to such pat
terns as Ihill be directed by the Secretary for t{*e
Department of War.
Payments to be made as fson as the article*
lhall be delivered, and palled infrieftion.
TENCH FRANCIS, Ptnxyoe,
eotitthSep.
To Majlers and Pilots bringing up Vejfeh
from Foreign Ports to this City: .
XTTHereas sundry infringements hate lately been
VV made on the laws of this Hate for the pr®'
venting peflilential or infedtious diseases, either"
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publilh the 1 following cs*
tracts from the laws of 2ad April, <794, 7th as 4
Bth fe&ions.
HEALTH-OI'FICE.
June 6th, 1794.
ExtraS of an ad for fecttring the citj and port
of Philadelphia from the introduction of pejli
lential and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And be it further ena&ed, that every
matter oh captain of any Ihip or velfel coming from
fe» (velfela adhially employed n the coafhng trade
excepted) and bound to aoy port or place witbifi
the/jtirifdiflion of Peqnfy!vania,lha:l cause hislhip
or velfel to be brought to anchor, or otherwise flay
c i in the flream ofthe river Delaware, opp'ofit? to
rhe Health-Ofljce on Staterllland aforefaid, and
there to rcmr.A until" he shall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of heal h from the Refidcnt Phy
sician. . Andil, previously to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any mylter or captain (bail
fuffer his Ihip or velfel to approach nearer than the
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia of
lhall land, cause or fuffer to be landed, or .brought
011 shore, at any place or port within this Corn
mtmweatth, or at any other port or place, with the
, intent of being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any person or persons, or any gooJs, wares or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving such bill of health
or certificate, he lhall ncgh & or rcfufe to deliver
the fame to the Health-Oliia r, such malteror cap
tain (ball forfeit and piy; for each and every such
offence, the fumcf rivi uundkld dollars.
And the captain or mailer of *very llvip or ves
sel lhall fend a fafe and CQmmodious boat to bring
the physician on board, and lhall in like manner
convey him back to the Health-Office, alter he has
concluded his official examination ; And while he
it making such examination, or in-'cafe any subse
quent exa.-uination by {he Health Officer or Con
futing Physician, agreeably to the directions of
thi< a<St, the mailer or captain lhall expose or caui«
to beexpofed to thefearch of the {lefiJent Phyfi
cian,or of the Health Officer and Confjilti.ig Physi
cian (as the cafe may be) each and every part of the
Ship or velfel, and lhall present to his view eacjx
and every person cr persons on board thereof, and
and lhall also true and fatisfaflory answers make
to Ml such questions as the Resident Physician, Sc
at the time of examination lhall alk relative to th«
health of any port or place frohi which the Ibip 06
veflel failed, or has finee touched at—die number
<of persons on board when the Ihip or velfel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that have
ftnee been landed or taken on board, and whe*
and whererefpe<£ively—what persons on board—
s they have been during the voyage, pr lhall, a£
the time of examination, be infeSed with any pes
tilential or contagipus disease—and what is the pre
sent Hate and condition fit the persons on boarii
with refpedt to their health or diseases, And if
any mailer ar captain lhall refufe to expose as afore
aid, to the search of any of the officers aforefaid,
n if he shall eonecatany ftck pirfon, er in any other map
per dct&ive the proper officers aforefaid, in bis anf-wen*
uch captain or mailer,for every futh offence, OiyA
forfeit and pay the funi of riva bljndeed ooi
-IA*S.
Seot. 8. .An! if «Ry person or persons whatfa
ever (the Resident Physician, &c. excepted) fliaii
»-o oa board any vessel, before the matter thereof
has received a certificate of health in the manner
dire6ted, every perlon so offending, lhall pay th»
urn of ONE HUMORED DOLtARS.
|r beinfrabfolutely necessary tbat the foregoing
f-#ions fiiould be punctually complied with, thf:
fuffctibit. in compliance with his duty, mull cx
aft a rigorous obf:rvance of the lame, or elf? b*
under tjw necefiity of putting the laws in force.
WM. ALL KN, Health Offiter of tin
iV-; if Pb'tUd*ip)jia.
July l/f,
[Volume XII.PHILADELPHIA, A*u c
Prom POULSON's TOWN, and COUNTRf ALMANAC.
A Lift of the Births and Deaths in the several religious Societies ir. the City of Philadelphia,
from Jugufl I, 1796, to Augujl I, 1797.
Births. Deaths. l Ij
'The Names of the Societies, CSV.* , * » v o So
male. fern. male. fem. p* E. if E.
I German Lutheran Church, - 1 54- : 4+ 105 115 298 220
4 German-Reformed Church, - - ' 108 130 66 57 238 123
Eoifcooal C Ch, " ift ' S ChurcH ' .* 42 49 40 42 9' 82
4 f Churchet. ) S? " Peter ' 6 Churctl * 45 55 4 2 4 2 100 »4
•5,J * CSt. Paul's Church, • 36 31 19 23 67 42
6 Society of Friends, - - 152 159 75 80 311 155
7 Catholic f Saint Mary's Church, 195 222 104 90 417 194
8 Churches. £ Holy Trinity Church, 38 34 ,9 10 , 72 19
9 Firfl: Presbyterian Church, » 2p 33 29 22 62 51
Jo Second Presbyterian Churcji, - 37 341. 26 33 71
11 Third Presbyterian Church, - 59 62 41 28 121 69
12 Scotch Presbyterian Church, - ji 6 5 317 8
13 The Aflociate Church, - 7 4 5 3 11 8
14 Society of Free Quakers, - 8 10 12 14 18 26
J 5 Moravian Church, - • 8 4 3 612 9
16 Swedish Church, - 25 27 55 42 52 97
17 Methodill Church, • • 22 • 26 10 11 48 21
18 Baptist Church, - • - 27 31 17 23 58 4P
19 .Univerfalifls' Chureh, * 2 2 4 1 4 j
20 Jewish or Hebrew Church, - 211132
21 African Episcopal Church, «< 18 17 36 33 35 69
i 2 African Mcthodift Church, . - 26 21 4 3 47 7
23 Potter*& Field, white People, • t'97 205 101 86 402 187
£4 ——, People of colour, -(-71 68 48 41 139 89
Total Number 1319 1375; 857 809 2694 1666
r«-A. g u^i ;? .Ms.t.A. I »»J Tottl I+JO , 4IJ ~8 8 109J jß+? j!Bj
* Several of these Societies admit the remains of strangers to le dtpoftted in their burying
grounds—if this VJcre not the cafe, the deaths would ftldom exceed half the number of the
"births.
f Births in those Families ivho bury in the Potters' Field.
PRICES CURRENT, at BOSTON.
Aativsr 24.
from to
Dc{j Cts. J)oIe Ctj.
BRANDY French gall. i 16 I J7
■ SpaJSfk 1 to 1 58
Cloves 1 lb. I J5
Cassia 50
Cocea Surrinaltt ewt. 20
Coffee lb. *3 *S
Cotton Foreign
Currant* Zant 7
Checfe —• ij
Duck Iluflia bolt. 16 18
Ravrns II II
Glaf< 10 by 8 ieo feet 1»
7by 9 II JS
6by 8
Geneva Holland « gall. 9*
Hemp ton »6o 170
Iron RufTia
Swedes l®6 111
Indigo French lb. 83 I S3
Lemmons » . t>ox 7 8
Mnlaffes gall. 6(3 66
Mackarel Nova Scotia bbl. 7 8
Nutmegs lh. 7
Oil Flnrepee 13 bottles cafe 9
ditto gall- ,1 1S
Pepper lb. »» *5
Pimento J*
Railins cask 9 II -
Rum Jamaica gall. I. 5*
■■ Windward * I J7 * 4*
Sugar Brown cwt. 19 IJ
——— White India
Loaf lb. St
SaltSt TJhesß bulh. hhd.T
—— Lisbon >
• Cadiz j
Liverpool
Steel German 16. 15
Shot of all sizes cwt. f $o
Tea Bohea lb. 41 46
• Hyson I 33
Wine Lisbon gall. 9*
—— Sherry
—Teneriffe ' 7J
Red Port I II
—— Claret dozen 5 ,
ASHES Pot ✓ ton lift 130
Pearl Jio 170
Anchors lb. 10
A Hum cwt. 9
Butter lb. 13 if
Beef bbl. 14 15
Bees-wax lt». <3 7
Boards merchantable M. 8 9
Copper in sheets lb. 40 ,44
Corn Indian bulh. 9»
Cordage ewt. 14 16
Chocolate lb. if 4 18
CandlcsTallow mould— ao
dipt
Spermaceti
Fi(h Table cwt 7 , 9
. Merchantable
Weft-India J 67 3 7S
Scale
Flour Superfine bbl. 9 ?o
Fifie
Middlings
Gun-Ponder lb. 67 83
Indigo Carolina —» 33 66
Oil comjnon Whale ton 80
Spermaceti
Linseed gall. I 8
Pitch bbl. » JO
Pork enfr Hog - SI
—— one & a half do.
Middle Pieces a 6
Rice Carolina cwt. 3
Rosin bbl. 3
Rnm New-England gall. 75
Salmon bbl. 9 10
Staves W. 0. hhd. HCO 30 35
*. Pipe
Bbl.
Tar bbl. i J«
Turpentine
Tobacco Jamesßiver ewt.l 10
■ ■ ■ Georgia —J "
* 1
■ » '
Red Port Wine.
■Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt. Rhodes, front
Oporto,
Red Port Tlpinein pipes,hhd». and quarter calks;
io cwt.Cork, for sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
July »J. 5
The Inhabitants of the- Diftrid
of South\^ark,
ARE informed that a is provided, to he
kept at the Constables' office, the north east
( »rher of Front and Almond streets, where the
friends of those Gck p'rlons who desire to he r >-
moved tti the City Hospital, are refuelled to m .lc
application —Alio, a Hearse will be kept in reattt
#t fs for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
N. B. —The Foor, who wilh to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may be furuiAed with ordets
NEir.roßK, Aug. *B.
The following copy of a letter it genuine-—if tvat receiv
edby ilt jbip Charlotte, from London, and banded to
to by a mercantile gentleman of till ci.y.
C°fiy of » Utter from capt Haley, to I. Shfoa, Mjej.
Dieppe, 30th April, '97.
»«a« lit,
I take the liberty to inform you of my present
situation —When I left you in London, lift Janua
ry. for France, my dcterminatio'.i was, to obtain a
French commiflion, in topes tt get revenge from
my infernal enemies ; and my good friends in thii
coßtitry granted my r«qu«ft. Whet I retnrned
to London, my intention vrai, to cut forae
vessel out of the Downs, but by good luck, you
had not le't London when I returned, and you
was good enough to offer me the commaud of the
Hare, which I thought would be a good opportu
nity for iib, at I well knew the principal ptrt of
the cargo belonged to my detested enenrei, to fay
the English, and all the cargo insured in London,
among the reft of the robbers. All this business I
kept to myfelf and after leaving the infernal tory
land, by virtue of my eommiOion, 1 foundafafe
port in France, called Dieppe ; my intention was,
t6 have the cargo condemned, but had not an idea
of the fhip'fharing the fame fate; however, that
is the cafe* and if I was tp fuffer ihip wreck, you,
nor no other republican fhouid fnffer on my ac
count, but at prcftnt it is out of ay power. I ex
pefi the darsnei tory party would cut/ny throat, if
in their powi r; however, as long as I live, it will
be my only study to annoy them, and jf the war
continues, they may think themselves lucky if jhey
dont get another bite from me. I hope you will
excuse me for taking this liberty with your fljip,
and hope you may get her restored to you. I wifk
you would fend a copy of this to London, as I am
afraid they have forgot me j but they may reft as
fured that ! have not forgot the Old Jersey, and
those damn'd violations committed on me in Lot
don, and other parts of thtir infernal domin'ons.
Although the cargo of the Hare, does not fall into
my hands, it falls iuto the hands of the republicans,
which ii the people that 1 delight in.
I am, Sir,
Your most obedieb t servant,
(Signed) «. balit.
ALIA NY, Aug. sr.
A gentleman of veracity, this day from Niaga
ra, informs us, that a detachment of 60 men, with
two field pieces, had left that post, a few weeks
Crice, for the Miffifiippi; and that the troops which
remain amount to about 100, with four field piet
e» : That they have recently been visited by a par
ty of about 1000 Indians, mostly of the Six Na
tions, accompanied by col. Brandt and other head
men ; that they were treated wjth liberal hofpita'i
ty, and appeared cordially affeSed towards the U
nited states. The obje& of this visit wc did not
learn.
GEOGE-TOIVN, Augujt is
- public buildings it the city of Walhington,
have progressed very considerably the present sea
son. The President's house has assumed its exter
nal form and will have a cover to secure it from
the weather, though the slate will not be put on
this fall.
The rapid rife o! the wall, of the eapitol, some
of the window-fills of the last story being already
in place, is fufficient evidence of Unremitting exer
tions to have it ready for congress by the time fixed
for their removal to Walhington.
The title of these buildings command general
approbation, and the workmanlhip. both for utili
(y and ornament, are unrivalled in this country.
On Monday last John Walter was found lying
dead on the road, witjiin a mile of Elk Ridge
Landing. It is evident, from the verdiA of the
coroner's inquest, that he was barbarously murder
ed. He was a taylor and resided in Baltimore A
wife and three children are deprived of hisfupport.
NORFOLK, August 21.
This morning capt. Bramble arrived in
22 days from Guadaloupe—-Yefterday capt.
B.faw two English frigates to the fouthwjrd
of the capes, and Ihordy after the two
French frigates under the command of com
modore Barney, tpder full fail, ftandine to
the N. N. E. r B
FREDERJCKS3URGH, Augufl 12.
At a Meeting of the People of Caroline
County, at the Court House on Tues
day the Bth day of August, 1797, (it
being Court day) convened by public no
tice given by the Sheriff of the said coun
ty, to conlider whether the constitution
of Virginia required revision and amend
ment : which said meeting was held in
pursuance of a resolution of the General
Assembly. The fubjeft was taken into
consideration, whereupon—.
Resolved unanimously, as she opinion of
this county, That the faidconftitution is de
fective, and that it be recommended to the
General Assembly, to call a convention by
law, for its revision and amendment.
Resolved unanimously, That the! Dele
gates for the said county be, and ar« b«i«-
by .anftru£ke<i, to endeaYoUt carry tl»e faiil
recommendation into effeft.
Signed by order of the meetingt
JAMES TAYLOR, Chairmari.
JOHN PENDLETON, Juii.
Secretary.
A few of the most prominent defeats in the
constitution of our state—Submitted to
the meeting for consideration.
I ft. The inequality in the representation.
For inltance—Caroline havingabout 20,000
people, hag no more representatives than
Warwick, having about 3,0c0 : and this
mequality.is felt in a greater orlefs, degree by
every county in the state. '
2d. The limitation of the right of fuf
frage to freeholders. This excludes the ma
jority of the citizens from representation,
which it unjust, as they pay taxes, and are
liahle .to military feryice. This injustice is
aggravated by the mode of taxation which
Conjßxfs have adopted, all their taxes being
laid consumption, and not on property :
so that those who have no land, 'pay ■as much
as those who have. The taxes on fait and
spirits bear hardest on tke poor, for they
consume most of those articles ; they ought
therefore to have a vote for those who im
pose them': and by the Canftitution of the
United Statei, those who vote for the most
numerous branch of the State Legiflaturea,
are intitled to vote for tht members of the
House of Representatives in Congress. Un
der this article all freemen in most of the
states have such a vote, and why should most
of the Freemen in Virginia be excluded ?
The inequality in the Senatorial dif
trifte is already enoimous, and daily beco
ming more so.
4th. rhe militia officers hold their offices
during good behaviour, whereas they ought
to hold them during pleasure ; because it is
the firft principle of liberty, that the mili
tary Ihould be dependent ou the civil pow
err, and because military officers for life are
a fort of priviledged nobility—are the next
step to hereditary diftindtions—and art, of
course, incompatible with republican prin
ciples ; ours is the only state in the union,
and probably the only government in the
world, where such a thing exists ; and it
defeats one of the checks of the Constituti
on «>f the United States, which, whilst it
girea to the Prefidentand Congref« tbr right
of commanding and regulating the militia,
leaves to the ttatei the appointment of offi
cers to fecure«to each state their fidelity ; a
security which is defeated, by having no pow
er of dismission.
sth. A numerous council is maintained
at an expence, for which their services are
n* compensation to the community.
6th. Freedom of religion is so loosely
provided for, that two laws, since the revo
lution, have been thought necessary to se
cure it; one to Manumit the di(Tenters from
the religious government of the Episcopa
lians ; the other to establish religious free
dom. Now this ought to be established by
the constitution ; because if the legislature
had a right to eftablrth it, it follows, that
they ilfo have a right to destroy it.
AUGUSTA, August 3.
The court of inquiry instituted for the
purpose of inreftigating the fatfts and cir
iumftances on which was grounded the sen
tence of the court martial on the trial of the
former adjutant general, met at Louisville,
pursuant to the resolution of the legislature,
and confirmed the former sentence in all its
parts, two only difTenting, viz-—the honora
blt major general John Twiggs, and the ho
norable brigadier general Morrifon
ha» a boaryl of officers been twice convened,
at a most enormous expense to the state, firft,
for the purpose of breaking, and again for
that of restoring, a character whose sole
pursuit fmce his residence here, ' has been to
breed anarchy and confufion. We should
not be surprised if Jackson and
Twiggs would open Sim a plan of hatching
up some other grievances against the meet
ing of the next legislature, by which a few
thousand dollars more will be drawn from
the state coffers.
There is a degree of fupinenef* attached
to ptople even in the moment of danger,
from which innumerable calamities frequent
'j~Tbey will not have seen their error un
til it be too late to offer a salve to the wound
already infliaed. This Imbecility of the
human mind arises from Two causes
by placing ao overstrained confidence in those
who once profeffed to have been our friends ;
and secondly in believing we are at all times,
ready and capable of warding off any unfore-1
seen blow which may. be aimed us. Be
tween individuals thi« doftrine may hold
good, but in political bodies, and in
the itercourfe between nations, nothing
can b« more absurd. There was a
time when it was thought a crime to sup
pose a Frenchman capable of treachery—ca
pable of injuring an American ; but that
time is now no more:—The American*
have since received abundaut proofs of the
treachery of that people—we fay treachery,
because they have not attacked us as open
enemies, but as assassins in the dark W«
have frequently apprised our fellovr-citizens
1 °f the secret intentions of these people in
distributing themselves all over the United
States—we have frequently told tftem that
this intefltion partly consisted in poisoning
the minds of th# people against their happy
government, and partly in instigating a spirit
. of commotion for certain supposed grievan
ce'—that these things are now fully verified,
is unhappily too true. There are, at thil
time, about a million and a half of French
men within the United States—the calcula
tion is far from being, exaggerated—We
appeal to any man who will give himfelf the
trouble to reflect a little, whether this num
ber is not capable of mpch mifchief at this
time —It is true, we gave them an asylum
from affaifination and oppression, as we would
have done to the people of other nations,
but we did not flop here—we clothed, we
fed them; and raised liberal fubferiptions
for their fupportv-although their nation
■was then endeavouring t> yverttfrq fir go
vefnment, We (hewed ourfelvcs above taking
revtnge on the unfortunate. But how have
this very people repaid us ? By every aftion
which could link or degrade the human cha
racter—ln this place we have bur (hare of
them j and perhaps trione than we ought to
countenance—Let fads speak for themselves
When the stage arrivved here this day Week,
a certain Frenchman in this town opened a
letter, and with much alfiduity circulated
the following as part of its vizi—
That Jtfcffrs. Harper, Rutledge and Smith,
of South Carolina, all three members of
the house of representatives, had absconded
in consequence of their being implicated in
the difgraceful design of William Blount;
and that the British consul general was com
mitted to jail. * ,
We know this to be a lie ; becatife Mr.
Smith is appointed minister to Portugal,
and has aftually aecepted that appointment
—Mr. Harper is one of the committee ap
pointed to investigate, in the recess of con
gress, the tranfaftion which led to Blount's
design on our government ; and as to Mr.
Rutledge, his chara&er is too' well-known,
and established in this country to fuffer ariy
thing from the animadverfionsfcf aa itinerant
refpett to the British
consul, the executive of the United States
know 3 his duty and the right of nations too
well to attempt the imprisoning a foreign
confnl—He is in an official capacity ; and a*
such, is not amenable to the civil laws of this
country, he is proteftcd by the law of na
tions— such things might do very well in
France ; but at this time they are better
ordered in this country. Whether the a
bove letter was manufaftured by the French
man himielf, or that he received it from a
citizen correspondent, £who is, perhaps in
some other part of the union, upon the fame
exprefg errand that this citizen is here] is
perfeftly immaterial to its criminality—ln
either cafe he deserves a quick conveyance
from Georgia.
art iii a I nMMi * m ■argjg Jwupycr mm »mu mimt iwrnw
* + ■ ■■
Late Foreign News.
LONDON, July A — s .
the Dublin mail which arrived,this morn
ing, we received a most eloquent and energetic
a 'drifs of Mr. Grattan to his fellow-citizens of
Dublin. It begins th«« .
Felloiv-Citlzenj of Dultlin,
I thank.you :or pad favors t have foun lin
you a kitid and gracious matter—you hav;
found in m'e an unprofitable fertant Uinter
that impression, I beg to allure you, that so long
as the pi efent state of reprefentatior. in tlie Cer'n
mons House continues, so long mud J, refpeit
fullv decline the honor of fuliciting at you/
hands a- feat in that aflcmbly.
On this principle it was I withdrew from
Parliament, together with those with whom I
ail—and I now exercise 'my privilege, and dis
charge my duty, hi communicating With my
condiments, at the eve of a general eluJlinn,
some fay an immediate diflolution, when I am
to render back a trust, which until Parliament
(hall .be reformed, I do not aspire to re-jfllime.
The account of the most material parts of my
■ eondu<!\, together with the reason of my reso
lution, will be the fubjefl of this letter.
Mr. Grattan concludes this appeal to his fel
low countrymen in the Following wo.di :*
May the King'y power that for'ms.ope tflatr
in our Constitution, continue forever ! but let
l it be as it profefies to be, and as by tfic princi
ples and laws of these countries, it fhouldbe,one
estate only—and not ? pow;r confirming one
estate, creating another, and influencing a third.
May the Parliamentary Constitution prosper I
but let it be an opeiative, independent, and in
tegral part of the Constitution, acfvifiiig, coufiu
ing, and sometimes directing the K ; ngly powtr.
May the Houf- of ComradnsftourHh ! but let
the people be the sole author of its exiftenct, as
they should be the great objefi of it care.
May the connexion with Great-Bi itain con
tinue I but let the result of that connexion be
the most perfect freedom,in thefaireftandfulleft
fenf j , of all descriptions of men, without dif
tinetion of religion.
To this purpose wefpoke—and speaking tliii
to no purpose, withdrew—lt remains to add thi>
supplication : Hawever, it may please the A 1
mighty ts dispose of Princes or of Parliaments—
MAY THE LIBERTIES OF THE PEOPLE
BE IMMORTAL.
The Court of- Directors of the East-India
rompamjMve appointed the right hon. Richard
Earl to succeed lord Hobart. in
the governnftnt and eventually that
of Bengal.
YefterjJay Mr. Pitt sent a letter to Sir George
Prefcott, intimating that it was not his intention
at present to bring forward any meaf'jre before
Parliament for the relief of the fubferibers to
Loan of 18 millions.
Last week, a French brig privateer of 16 guns
took the fsii»wing reflets off" Flamborough
Head, after a severe engagement, viz. the Fa
vorite, Fa-ifer ; Betsey, Preflon ; Advice, Loth
erington ; Adeona, Smith, of London ; and the
Dolphin, Corerdale of Whitby. The above
ship« were from the Baltic, with four others
who escaped, 6ne of whom was the Elifon, Cor
ner, of this port, who gallantly beat off the
privateer next day.
A newspaper has been established at Conftan
tiaople, a very great, novelty in that country.
. HULL, July 8.
The tribunal of state inquisitors at Venice,
conifted of three members, who had the p»wer
of deciding, without appeil, on the lives of eve
ry citizen ; the highelt of the nobility, and even
the Doge not being exsepted. The inquisitors
might employ spies, consider secret intelligence,
iffiie orders 10 seize all persons whole wovds or
anions they thought repnfhenfible, try them,
and order them to be executed ; they could
command every individual tq the house of every
individual at all h»urs, and they were not res
ponsible for thpir condufl. That such a a tri
bunal, and such a government has been'drftroy
ed,is a fubjefl for infinite joy and congratulation.
VIENNA, lune 7.
The exchange of the ratification of the pre
liminaries of peace has at length taken place—
Soma dispute relative to the signatures, and
some other difficulties, had occafioued the delay
of this exchange.
According to accounts received by private
letters, the Auflrian aims have already been set
t up in l'evera! parts of the Venetian territories.
Several battalions of troops which had receiv
ed orders to march through Franconia to the ar
my or the Rhine, have now received counter
orders, and will go to Italy, to the army of Gen.
Terry, which will be augmented tp 70,c00 men.
The cefiions of territory that are to be made,
and the fpiritthat now prevails Italy, render
a strong military force necefTary,
The Venetian town of Brescia is said ta be
*lr«dy occupied by Austrian troops,uttderGen.
Laudon, 'The present municipality of Venic*
ba.feni.twa of its mtmbers, citizens Tori and
Metigoni, as deputies to Buonaparte, to compli
rnent him ; and at the fame tirtie to confer with
him on the nature arid tendency ef the treaty
concluded between France and "Venice on the
13th of May, which has occasioned fame diffi
culty. To tkis treaty, which contained several
secret articles, the Doge of Venice and the Re
public of France «rere the contradling parties •
but as the office oftfte Doge was in the mean'
time abolished,. I'ome explanation teems requisite.
On the pirt of the French it is liltewife requirl
ed that the new fgrm of government at Venice
Ihoßld be laid before the Direitory it Pans, and
receive thtir approbation.
/ MILAN, May 36.
All the Freinch and Corfican sailors in Leg.
horn and other places are ordained to repiii «<j
Venice to be employed in manning the Venetian
(hips which the French ,ha»e taken for , heir
own use. A part of th« Venetian fleet has al
ready failed for Corfu, Zant, and C phalonia,
with a number of French troops on board who
are to ftrve there in gsrrifon. The French exi
peil to increase their nava force in the Mediter
ranean by Venetian {hipsof war.
The present debts of the Ecciefiafticil State
amount te isß millions, 800,000 fcudi; the
yearly expenees to 4,160,000, and the revenne
( since the 1. f f of the provinces oT B.dogna, Fer
rara and Romagna) only to 1,500,000 fctidi j
the additional income from foreign countrie*
becomes daily more infigiificanti
According r» letters from Rome, the Pope
011 the lid May was again taken dangerously
ill. Ihe ntrbUc attention is attrarted to the fu
ture conclave ; aiid two parties are already
formed in support of two caml'dates for the
papacy, in tale at the death of Pius VI. The
younger Cardinal Matthei, who is the friend of
General iiuonaparte, and patronized by the
Frinch party; the elder Cardinal Chiaramnnte.
Others, on the contrary, maintain that Pin*
VI. will be the lift of the Popes, and have n®
luccetfor.
Another letter, fame date.
All the Italian provinces who wish for a de
trfbcrrtic form ofgovernmeat, arenow consoli
dated into one, and form the new Italian Repub
lic, which in Italy is called the Cisalpine, (or
the Republic on this fide the Alps) and in
France, the Trai.falpine, (or that beyond the
Alps). General Buonaparte "has divided this
Republic into departments co'i lifting 0/
the of Milan, Jiologna, Ferrara, Mode
oa, Mafla Carrara, anal a great part of the Ve
netian territory. Milan w:ll be the «tpital.—
Buonaparte has declared that the papa! province
of Komagrts (hall now liltewife be added to it.
The province of Ancona hat also rrquefted to be
united to the.irew Republic.and sent deputies to
Buonaparte for that purpafe. i'he tree of li
berty Ins been planted at Vncoaa, and.utles of
nobility are abolished Gufftavilani and Mag
nani are cbofe« members of the of the
great Italian Republic for bologna ; Seibelloni,
for Milan ; and Uatct, for Modern. /''ley
have already commenced the exersife of their
•uniftumt, ind the fir(t mentioned signs all or-
prclidcut. it is believed thaffeveral
diftridls of Lucixaiidtt! Genoa will likewife'make'
a part o! the new republic.
Thr national guards of the new Cifpaline
republic arehkewife every where oganized Oa
the 26th May, gen Buonaparte pnMifhed at
proclamation addrefTed, to these guards, and dat
ed from his head quarters at Mo'ntebello near
Miljju it begins as follows: *
" Brave Brethren in Arms,
" To you it appertains to confirm the liberty
M your country. The folHiers found republics,
the soldiers maintain them Without an army,
without force and discipline, there can beneither
independence nor civic freedom. When a.
wh 'e people is under arms determined to de«
fend their liberties, th.'y jre. invincible. The
whole people of the Cifalpfne is bound to defend
its fovere'gnty No partial privileges can exist
ill a Rate which has solely for its ebjeil the good
of the whole Every citiaen, therefore, rnuft
esercife himfelf in arms, that he may be able t»
support and defend that liberty which is the ob
je# of the wiib ef all the people of the earth."
[Here follow the regulations relative
organization of the national guards, who are to
be ready in alTthe eight departments by the I3tk
June at the lateft.J
After the firft commotions had happened as
Genoa, in which the noble Phil. Doria fell at
he head of the iuiurgents, the French envoyl
there, citizen Faypoult, received a guard of 100
men, and the senate iflueda proclamation, charg
ing all ptrf ins to treat the French with all due
refped, as oh the friendfhip of the French re
public the welfare of Genoa depended.
1 he Piedmontefe troops which are posted 1-
long the Telfino, amount to 10.993 men.
VENlc£*May 31 .
According td*l'ome accounts, an English fqu*»
dron has taken the island of Corfu, and I'ome
ether Venetian Levant iflands,though not with
out -the less of many lives. According to these
accounts, which however require confirmatiop,
the English Iwve decJa ed that they will be ready
to' reftote these islands to Venice when that Re
public shall have recovered it* former date.
The marriage of'the Doge with the AdrJatle
sea was omitted lafl afcenlioa day for the firft
time during many centuries, so that the fe* is
now in a state of widowhood.
Our patriarch has published a paftor;l letter,
in wbich he exhorts the'inhabitants ofthe re
public toconfider the new order of thirds as a
divine dispensation, and yield obedience accords
ingly.
Six French ships of war have entered the har
boutof Ancona, where every thing now is mo
dflled after the French form.
Tranjlated from Hamburgh Paptrt.
PARIS, July t-
P(rfe& tranquility reigns in this capital. 76+
3<d injlant, on which it tuft's pro/rnojlicatcd there
Jhould is dijlurbances, faffed k/ very quietly.
Eucn tlx moji keen obferv'ers do no longer per
ceive any symptoms of an appreacitmg tamnf
tinc.
The command tf Italy is at present divided as,
follows :—General Bernaa'otte commands in
Friulia; Serrur<erfrim Corteglijrt to the Piuve}
Joubtrt at Maffano ; Ba'raguay d'Billier in-the
province of Tre-oifo and the Doga* (the city of J
V•nice with its dependencies) ; fifior at Padua
and its %>:ci»ity; Anger.au tit Verona and Kicett
z# ; Holland at Srexia and Bergenia.
Bounaparte'sfifltr, luhofe bard the noted ex~
deputy Freron fame time vgo foliated, is t» be
married •with Leilerc, General of Cavalry :a
tie army bf Italy Her dowry is ejlimated at
Joq,oc& livres.
7be BireSory have re-eflablifhed tiiize* Bo
let in his pojl as rear admiral of the Brejt
fleet.,
Something hhs at length tranfpirrti on the
fubjeS ef the offenfive and defer)five alliance be- •
I ween France and Sardinia, she treuty was
concluded at Turin by general Cfarke, in th*
stb of April; approved ef by the liireßory on
the nth, and ratified oh the 15th of April by
the king of Sardinia.
The Direßot'yJjas sent a mtffagt to the council
1 of joo, 40 the fubjeH tf tkc Jituetion of Ijiw.'' Thit e'Ay JinporUm! tjf its population ank
tnanafuH'tr's, zvhofe wifh nothing
'hit tranquility, fays toe mfffage, '■ has been for
a long time pa ft. the receptacleyf a number of
Isabhers, tubo frequently commit robberies and
murders, flhe robbers known undir the name
df intendiiries and "brothers of fefus, are fortiied
into companies a>:d led on by chiefs ivhoje coun
ter i ervqljitlortarv firojcH, can no longer be doubt
ed of." h v /> <Vierued that Lyons <wilt be de
clared to "be in a J}ate of ftege- 0
mmtmummmmmm » i mi ■
' TV-
PffILJDEL PHIA,
\VEDNESDAY EVENING, AuguJ 30.
Yesterday, at 11 o'clock, his Excelletfcy the
Governor met both houses of the # Le
gislature in the Chamber of the Senate,
and addressed them as follows :
Gentlemen of the Senate, and
Gentlemen of the House of Representatives.
THE objeft for which the present session
was appointed, being confined, I believe,
to the completion of such bufinefd*as was de
pending at the period of your adjournment,
it will be proper to avoid pressing upon your
attention any fubjeft that does not require
an immediate irtterpofition of the legislative
authority. I enjoy indeed, a sincere fatis
fattion in beirtg able, on this occasion, to
repeat, that experience has disclosed but
few important defeats in the general inftitu
tit>ns of our municipal policy ) while even
those subordinate regulations which are ne
cefTary to accommodate the progress of po
pulation and settlement in a young country,
have, in a great degree, been anticipated
by the wisdom and liberality of your prede
cefibrs. It is another interesting source of
pleasure and congratulation, that, notwith
standing every rccent 'symptom ofdifiatisfac
tion and hoftih'ty, thp conciliatory conduft
which the Federal government haspurfued,
promises effectually to restore the harmony
of our foreign relation®, anito preserve the
peace and prosperity of the Union.
In order, however, gentlemen, to pro
vide against a difappolntment in this hope,
Congress have directed, among other cau
tionary m-afures, that a corps of 80,000 wi
litia shall be organiaed, of which 10,696
men are to be furnifhed by Pennsylvania.
The necessary inftru<ftions have been iflued
for complying with the requisition j but per
mit me to observe, that the imperfeftions
of our militia law, ( which' have often been
the fubje£t qf femark in my communications
to the Legifiature) forbid the expectation of
certainty or expedition, in embodying a
competent force, upon the present or upon
*ny future emergency. 'ln carrying the
aft for procuring a supply of arms into ef
feft, time has been allowed for transmitting
proposals from the moA distant part of the
Union ; and the delay has enablfd me to
obtain the aid of the Prffident for facilita
ting an exportation from Europe ; to ascer
tain under a late law of Congress, an exemp
tion fromdutyon the importation into Penn
sylvania ; aad, in consequence of the sud
den profpeft of a general peace, to insist u
p6n more advantageous terms, than Could
have been contemplated in an earlier pur
eliafe. The contrasts. will nevertheless, I
trust, be formed, so as to infu're the delive
ry of 10,000 ftaad of arms in the course of
the ensuing spring : But ftrlf, it is obvious,
that the eftablifhmeut of au can be of
little importance, unless the regulations for
mustering a retraining the militfa shall also
be efficient; and therefore, you will excuse
tberenewed exprefiion of my solicitude, that
a reform, may be speedily introduced, on
points so essential to the national honor and
defence.
As the state of the unfortunate controver
sy at Wioming has not been /natfrialty
changed during the recess, T prefurae this
fubfett will, likewise, be revived in the de
liberations of the present session. The
hope was entertained, that a judicial deter
mination in the Supreme Court of the Uni
ted States would, before now, have obvia
ted evtry ground of litigation, even upon
the question of private property ; but as the
ifi"ue„of the fuftsinvolving that question, can
have no direst influence upon the obligation
of the government to assert its right of juris
diction, I again submit to your considerati
on, the expediency of adopting, in that
refpefit, a prompt and decisive course of
proceeding, whether it shall Wad to an equi
table'commutation of either of the contend
ing claims, or to a coercive establishment of
the public authority. The additional do
cuments that I have directed to be present
ed to you, evince the continuance of that
spirit of'refiftance-to our laws, which any
appearances of fupineqefs 01; of irresolution,
on the part of the state, would, I apprehend,
fatally extend and embolden.
From -the many other fubjefts which your
records will exhibit, allow me, Gentlemen
to feleft, as deserving of peculiar attention,
the institution, of public schools, and thf sys
tem for regulating bankruptcy: the former
is recommended with all the force of a cqnfti
tutienal injun&ion, and the. latter, by those
ccinfiderations of policy and humanity which
will naturally occur, at this cfifis, to every
mind of feeling and reflection. Some further
provisions might likewise be advantageously
made, refpefting the interior management
of the prilons'for debtors; particularly in
the articles of lodging and fubfiftance; and,
It is thought,- that the authority of a law is
■wanting, for a removal from the debtoi's
apartment to the criminal jail, when a per
son in custody, upon civil prqeefs, (hall af
terwards be convifted of a crime
The reprefentatipns which have been made
bv the officers of the Land Office, point
out the necessity of an early appropriation
fjr paying the arrearages due for past Servi
ces, and for compensating, in future, a
competent number of clerks to perforin the
dnties of that depa+tment. The allowance
kas hitherto been so infuffieieut, that the
Records, for a series of years, have been,
unavoidably, left imperfect, and even the
♦xpence of trpife&ing the indifpenCaU^Cur
vent liuftnefs, has been partially defrayed,
as I am informed, out of the- private funds
of the officers. Y«u will likewise be pleased
Gentlemen, to prescribe the mpde for dis
tributing 546 copies of the neweditionof the
Afts of Congress, which the Secretary of
State has transmitted to me, for the benefit
of the Common werffth; and Tome use should
immediately be defignat'ed, sos the'hoilfe or
riginally intended to accommodate the Pre
sident of the United States, as, in its pre
sent unoccupied situation, it is greatly ex
posed to dilapidation and injury.
It is proper to t;ike thts opportunity of
Hating, that the eoutroverfy relative, to the
prize (loop Active, which was captured
from the British in the year 1780, has been
revived in a suit brought by certain claimants
against tha then marshal of Pennsylvania,
who paid the proceeds of the priz.e into the
court of admiralty, under *ll order of the
judge, and with the fanftion of the legisla
tive and executive authority of the common
wealth, as appears from'the records of that
\ period. It being incumbent on the (late,
under these circumdances, to indemnify the
marshal, I have directed the suit to b; de
fended on account of the public, and the do
cuments will be laid before you, that fu£h
further steps may taken upon the occasion as
your wisdom and justice shall devise and ap
' prove.
The appearance of a malignant and con
tagious fever in Penu-ftreet anA,its Vicinity,
as the time of your
induced me, gentlemen, to convene such of
the members as could conveniently att#nd,
1 that they might be apprised from the belt
| fourcea of information of the fafts relating
to the fubjeft : but a variety of reasons oc
cuvied to render it improper on the part of
the executive alone to pursue any (tep, that
might prevent your meeting at all, or ( even
change the ordinary feat of the legifiature,
without the previous authority of a law.' fl
aivxioufly hope, however, that the jirecau
tions which have been takeuj and the fa
vorable temperature of the seas n, will ena
ble us fpetdily to remove every of ap
prehension : And that you may, from time
to time, pofTefs authentic accounts upon the
fubjeft, I (hall direst the reports of the
health-office, and the communications of the
college of phyficiane, to be regularly la,id
before ,y«u.
But, under the irtipreffions made by the
calamity which threaten*, you will naturally
be disposed, gentlemen, to invigorate,, by
efery poflible means, the police, for restoring
and preferring the health of the city and its
fnburbs. The existing law hat empowered
the infpeftors to prohibit an indiscriminate
intercourse with the infefted quarter, to re
move the (R, and to provide for their ac
commodation : and you will, doubtless, con
cur in thinking, that the emergency jultifies
me in having made arrangements for estab
lishing camps on the neighboring compions,
as an asylum for such of the citizens as may
wish to fly from the immediate sphere of con
tagion. For the outlines of a permanent
plan, however, permit me to refer to there
port, with which I have been favored by the
college of phyefiians ; a plan which will, I
am confident, be digested and matured by
your wisdom, upon liberal and enlightened
principles, adapted to an objedt so deeply
affecting the tranquility, opulence and prof
kperity of our metropolis. •
Gentlemen of the House of Reprefcntatives,
By the report from the department of ac
count!, of which copies will bt presented to
the legifiature, it appears, that to a balance
of 94,718 dollars Cents, which was
in the treasury on the I ft day of January last,
there has been since added a sum of 178,205
dollars and 51 cents, the accumulative re
sult of various sources of our revenue. Du
ring the fame period, the dilburfements for
1 the public service, including the enpenfe of
the late session of the general a(Tembly,-an J
the grant for the relief of our fellow-citiiens
in Savannah, have amounted to the fnm of
176,439 dollars and 1 cent ; so that there
remained a specie balance of 96,485 dollars
and 35 cents in the treasury, on the firft day
of the present month. It should be recol
lcfted, however, that this sum,. and the
growing revenues of the state, are fubje£ted
to very appropriations, independent
of the current charg.es for the support of
government; and I trust that the next general
aflembly ( should your other avocations pre
vent an immediate investigation) willjndge
to review the fta,t» of our finances,
and to take the necefiary precautions for
preventing the public expenditure exceeding
the public income.
The officers of accounts will submit to
your •consideration the ordinary objeSts for
appropriation, which have occurred during
the recess ; but permit me particularly to
suggest, that it"may be proper to mak? a
provisional grant for the use of the health
office, left the progress of the disease, which
at present excites an alarm, should call for
pecuniary aid more suddenly and more ex
tensively than the powers of the infpeftois
could supply.
It will likewise, I conceivS', be an a£t of
true policy, as well as of benevolence, to
provide fame means for employing and pay
ing in the public service the indigent and in
dustrious citizens, "who may be deprived of
the ordinary resources for the maintenance
of themselves and their families, during the
continuance of the calamity.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and
Geitlem. n of the House of Rep refenta lives,
The general information, which has been
received, will not indeed permit me to flatter
you the hope, that the malignant and
contagious fever to which Ibavejuft alluded,
has ceased to exist. It is, I fear, a melan
choly truth, that the number of victims in
the neighbourhood ofPenn street, in South
wark, and in that part of the Northern Li
berties, which is called Kensington, ha 3 un
doubtedly inereafed in the course of the last
week; and some cases, it is said, haveocur
red even in the interior of the City. lam
aware geatlemen, us the painful confequen
ees of these public communications; but I
have thought it a» iudifpeuisbk duty, iu aj
I matter of such moment, that'every individu
al {hould have an opportunity to judge for
andtopurfue the measures which
his own ideas of security might suggest.
To the lufpedtora of the Health-Office, how
ever, as more intimately acquainted with
the state of the various parts of the city and
its suburbs, T have implicitly confined the
talk of deviling regulations, to check and
prevent the progrtfs of the contagion'; and
you will pq[£eive by the Proclamation which
I have issued at their earned jrequeft, that
whenever they have thought it necessary, to
a!k my aid, their plana have received the full
support of the Executive Authority. Those
plans (which in mod points coincide with
the Opinion with the College of Physicians)
certainly corttain arrangements that will af
feft the feelings and the interests of indivi
duals ; biit our Fellow Citizens will perceive ;
with their usual candor and good ferife,that I
on oceafions like the }>refynt, perfoual con
federations must be superseded, by an atten
tion to the welfare of the whole community ;
and it is great consolation to refleft, that the
power is ex rcifed by men chosen by them
selves for the purpose; by men whose duties
eipofe them to extfaordinary dangers with
-ojt the exemption from the operation of the
roles they establish; and by men whose vigi
lance, judgment, and humanity ,-entitle them
ta public confidence andVfteem.
THOMAS MIFFLIN.
Philadelphia, Augufl 2()th, 1797,
' ' > /
A bill appropriating 10,000 dollars to
t'xe committee of health, to be by them ap
plied to the relief of sick and indigent per
sons labouring under malignant or other
diseases in the city and liberties of 'Phila
delphia, pasTed the house of reprefentatires
yesterday afternoon.
The Governor informed the Legiflaturd,
thit he had negatived the election bill
which was presented to him at the last fef
' fion. *
The Legislature have adjourned Jtne die.
The account publilhed in y,»fterday's Gazette,
<jf an alarmi.ig disorder haying broken out in
Proyidejice, R. I. is corroborated by letters.i
frtnil New York. Ir isjftpprffed t» be the Yel-'
low Fever, ants h;s bedn traced with certainty to
a veflel from Hifpanrola. f
A man by the name o- McDowell, who lately 1
died in Chefnut-Street» and who was reported
to have expiryd under *lLthe most hori id fymp- j
torn* of the Yellow Fever, and whose death,
with the Qii cumftaiirf? attending it, spread such
general alarm not only through the city, but thp
neighboring towns, il m iw confidently beliered
to have died of the Dysentery.
Tw» Doctors lately pranounced a man to ex
hibit every fyrjiptom of the Yellow Fever. The
lir-xt day, he was walkiug the flreett, ind con
tinue}; in usual health ; nor has he hadany other
disorder than a trifling indisposition.
The late Doftor Thomas Bond's iatrodolto
ry Leflure to a cn'urfe of Clinirjd observations
in«hr Pennsylvania Hospital, deliverrd there the
3d of December 17M, shews his opinion clearly,
that the Yell»w Fever may be generated a
mnng us—,
" The Yellow Fever, which I take to be ex
aflly she fame ('iftemper as the plague of Athens,
described by Thuc id ides, has been five different
times 11 thirelty since roy refidencein it—The
fircund time it prevailed it was indigenojn from
•-v de»t caufrs, »nd was principally confined to
■jnefquarcof thecltv." i. ' •
There are erefted on the vacant ground
between Broad-flreet and the Sch'uvlkill,
near to the road leading tor the Middle-
Ferry, betwixt twenty aud thirty tents,
for the reception, wc believe, of such fa
milies as have been, or may be, obliged to j
leaVe the city on account of the prevailing :
fever, and bad not the means of obtaining
'lodgings in the country.
* It appears, by information colle&ed for
the Philadelphia Gazette, that in -the btiry
ing grounds of this city, colleftively, {here
wrre.4 adults and 6 children interred in 24
hsurs, eliding yesterday at noon, exclusive
01 the City Hospital and Kenfingtoni
/ On Friday evening, there fell such a tor
rent of rain a few miles tp the northward
of this city, as has »ot been witnessed for
a long time past, which' raised the
in the small rivers and creeks to such a de
gree as to do considerable damage. A
newly-ere&ed bridge betwixt Germantown
nnd Frankford was thrown down, atid con
fi4erablc damage was <'<>ne to Frankford
bridge, part of the foundation at one end,
and the upper walls, haviug given way : in
consequence of which a mtlancholy acci
dent happened the fame evening. Mr,'
Lewis Über (f(?n of David Über, Spripg-
Gardens) a young man just of age, was
returning to toVvn, and the part of the
which had been washed away being
overflowed, he and his horse fell off the
"bridge '"nto the river, and, though a very
good swimmer (perhaps from some injury
■ ht might receive in the Call) he was unfor
tunately drowned ! Tl)e horse was saved.
The body of the young man was found the
next day, and on Sunday ftterred in the
burial, ground' of the Genhan Lutheran
Church in this city. What adds to the
melancholy of this is, the young man
was this week to have been married !
A boy about ten or twelve years of age,
the son of Widow Wright, in Water-street,
betwixt Race and Arch-streets, fell from
one of the wharves in the neighbourhood,
into the Delaware, and was drowned.
'
"she Hamburgh Ad:lref<<,Gomtoir of the
l,Oth of July, mention? an American (hip
from China to LendoO,' laden with 3,900
chests of tea, f>oo,oco wt. of sugar, with
Nankins, silk ftuff, and Pc*celain, worth
three mijltoris of livres, being taken by
a Freneh privateer, and carried into Nantz
The fame paper •advertises for Philadel
phia, to fail on the 15th inft. a la:ge fri
gate-fhip, with two decks for passengers,
named the John, capt. Fobert Folger ;
also a Hamburg, ship, ca ed the Iris, to
fail in a month.
fur iu 14 dkyj, aa^Al
toaa fiiijj, called the Northern Lion ; a fid
for New York, the Brig Eliza, captain
Newfham.
Married, by {he Rev. Do&or White, on
I Saturday evening, Do&or Jacob-Thotup
! son, to Mi fa Ann Heaven, daughter of
Mr. William Beaven.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YO RK,~Auguft 29.
A citizen was interrupted on Wcdnefday
evening near by a foot-pad who
had a piftok; on seizing the pifEol fevcral
others appeared. By some address the ci
tizen cleared himfelf from them. . The
watch was turned out, but could find no
thing of them. Such gangs (hould rouze
ihe citizens to vigilance. Several robberies
were com putted last week ; aud a gentle
man had bis 'purse demanded of him about
| ten daysYince two miles out, by .a pad, with
a piflol at his bread.
ALBANY, August 2j.
By Major Cafs, of the United Statei
■3d regiment, who arrived in this city oil
Monday last, we are informed, that he left
Fort Hamilton, on the Great Miami, the
15th of May last, and travelled through
the North-western Territory to Detroit ;
that as far as he could discover, the Indi
ans (hewed no hostile disposition towards the
United States, although their minds ap
peared to be much agitated, and many of
them were moving off to the Spanish fide
of the Miflitlippi. The fpint of desertion
which had prevailed amongst the American
troops'at Detroit, had considerably abated
previous to his departure, in consequence
of energetic' measures being adopted by
brigadier general Wilkinfon. Great cor
diality subsisted between the American and
British officers in that quarter.
BOSTON, Augnft 25.
We learn by an arrival at Newberry, that
orders had arrived at Curracoa, frorfi Gua
daloope, forbidding any American prize
veflel, being brought in. Hughes proba
bly wants all the provisions at Guadeloupe.
' The privateer arrived at,Marble
head, we are informed by a gentleman of
that place, is a ffbooner mounting 14 guns
and enrrying 70 men. Th? conduft of the
crew since her arrival, it is said, has excited
some fufpicioßS, that her visit was not for
the purpose of bringing dilpatches. And
we are informed, one sailor, either whan in
liquor or from receiving fomeaffront, threat
ened to inform the Selectmen of Marblehead
of the real design, which he hinted to be, to
gain information, what Indiamen were about
failing, or were expe&ed home ,-»*3nd, that
to form a pretext for entering our ports,
which might prevenr suspicion of the objeft
—they emptied the water from the calks—
befides the fpeciout one of bringing dispat
ches. The sailor alluded to, aftually quit
ted the veflel, and the other seamen were
so much enraged, that they menaced him
with death, if be attempted to return again.
He was yesterday seen on the road from
Marblehead for Boston.
The privateer failed from Guadaloupe
July r, and has probably had a very com
fortable cruize, being at sea upwards of 50
days, and it is improbable she would have
been-thus long, if employed as a dispatch
boat.
There is mystery too in the captain's pre
ferring Marblehead to Boston. A Boftoa
fifhrnnan, we are told, whb piloted liim
to the former place, urged Incoming in the
latter ; but the capt. iofifted upon going
into Marblehead.
An attempt has h«n made to fire the
town of H.
GAZETTE MARINE LlsX-
Pout of Philadelphia.
ARRIVED. DAYS.
Sch'r Sally, Church Savannah 9
At the Fort.
Sch'r Eutaw, Brewfter, C. Francois
Illinois, Nifbit, P. au Prince
and a (loop, said to be from Boston.
flome up from the Fort.
Sch'r Minerva, Andaulle, P. au Prince
Isabella, Drifcole, Jamaica
Swift, Trennels, St. Thomas's
Lively, Burrowes, Surinam
CLEARER.
Brig Friends, Hughes, » Boston
The brig Welcome Return, Labbree, is
below, from Savannah. „
At Cadiz, June 17, brig Harriet, Ro
bertfon, Philadelphia.
At Liverpool, June 14, the Pigou, Sin
clair ; and Clothier, Gardner, of Philadel
phia.
At Jaquemel, July 20, brig governor
Brook, M'Cutcheon, of Philadelphia.
Alicant, June 20. > Five American vessels
are confined here by two French privateers,
which are cruising off.
trnir-roßi, Aug. 28.
jWKirfD. DATS.
Ship Harriot, Cloutman Oporto 55
Bet fey Hart, Carniavan Wales 46
Charlotte, Neal Hamburgh 46
Brig Kitty, Roach Halifax
Two Sifter's, Conllin, C. Francois 17
Dispatch, Waifoll, Monte Chrijlo 15
William & Heury\ Sherlcr, N. Caro
t ' £ ina 7
Boyne, Green, St. John's 7
CISARtp. *
Schooner Thcrefa, Thomas St. Thomas'
Lift of ■ vessels left at Jux Cayes by capt. King
of the lijtjf Lewis, arrived here in 18
days. ,
Barque John, Freeman Portland
Brig Olive Branch> Ejldrige, Porfmouth, Vir.
Friend/hip, Cutter Portsmouth, A r . H.
Eliza, Totunfend Salem
Eliza, White Netv-Haven
Schooner Diligence, Bujfarton Salem
Patty, Davis Philadelphia
Peace and Plenty, Wait Boss on
Siooy S.i/ly, Watts ' Phi adelphitt
. And a number of vcfftls, namts not recol
eded.. '
i ft,.
<77.* i* if ■" ' fort land, August 10.
I she S°'W»'tg "Cunt «,« s Ay J a
man w ho I, Mat the head of Merry Meeting
Bay, and may be fended upon «, accurate :
I ; ' tbe Wflof March, to the \*7h of Jul<
•\ i 7 /A 7 'a "i 171' ■ *"*; 115 S ch ' o " e ."> 91
f ; r£l Tt , :g l °" Je tome "P through tht
t chops oj Kenifebeckri'ber. ,
The F.jjp of Kenneieck is taken iy the French;
Waijeft at ,S"*-Gayes, barque John, Free*
man, Falmouth, C*/". £.
y Arrived at 80ft,,,, £ ir; >
, , , , Bourdeaux, 53 A, VJ . 2 ,
, "''-42- long. 4%, spoke Jhip Maiifon of Pepps.
relhryb. it, days from Virginia for.London
' tr*lh*?f/o? " 6 '"■>'*
j Same day, schooner Adventure, Bacon, Tri
nidad. Left ship 'Townfiend of Kennebeck.
Chcrlejlon, Auguji 12.
| "he trench privateer brig Pandora, Capt.
Gariicafi, has taken fo»r American veffils,
bound from Briiiih ports to Philadelphia.
Yesterday arrived tht ship Planter, Hudson,
Havannah, 10 days ; (loop Confidence, March,'
Minguanne, 31 days ; schooner Harmony,
Clarke, I.eneriffe, j 7 davs. V
The Speedwell, Crawford'; from Savannah,
and t.je Triumph, hazard, from Charleston,
have arrived at Liverpool.
The ship Fox, Lincoln, arrived at Amflerdam
on the 30th of ApriJ from this port, 41 day»
paflags. '
. a pt> Clarke brought home four men belong
ing.to the (hip Virginia Packet, Wills, of Nor-
This (hip was bound to Cadiz; when (he
got off that, port fte was prevented entering ;
the captain then went to Madeiri ; while he
was on (l)ore a French privatfeer cut her out of
the read, and carried hef to Santa Cruz in Te
net iffe, where (he was condeity-.ed bv the French,
ron+ul., notwithstanding the American eonfnl at
Madeira had diipatched a vcflel to claim her a 9
American property.
Capt. Clarke informs, that about tfifc 10th of
lune two tngiWi frgyes, which were cruising
®it santa Cruz., feiit in five boats, and cut out of
that road a lipanilh galleon from the EafKln
dies, which,had a very confiderablcquantity of
money on board. They also cut out a French
brig, belonging to the Republic, mounting 18
guh», whjeh-wis botind to the East-Indies.
Amjlerdam, June 7.
A circumstance, favourable to our com
merce Is', that several (hips, richly laden,
from America, entered the ports of the re
puolic a few days ago They could hardly
have escaped the vigilance of the Englift*
fleet, if the latter had been still at sea.
Ncf nevvfpapers were received by tha
Southern Marl of this day.
— HMTH 1 iHWi Bl———m
THE SALE OF NOTES,
Advertifcd for the .firft of September is post*
p»ned until further notice
John Connelly, Auctioneer**
Aug- 30. . 3 t
Notice.
SAMUEL RICHARDET,
BEGS leave to inform the Meichants and hi»
friends, that be will (hut up tfie City Tav
ern and Exchange on Thursday next, during
the prevailing disorder ; thp preatbody of mer
chants having left fre'querltingthe fame for foan*
days.
Aug. IP.
For HAMitUKUH,
>—m r f HE Copper Bottorfied Ship
1 FAVORITE, JOHK
\ Thompson, Ma(ter, now at
' ,t '» wharf,, nwill be rei
-1 dy to take in on Monday next,
part of her cargobeing engaged
and rn.'y to go on board. The (hip. is so well
known, that it is needlef# to describe her. Sha
is now rn compleat order. For Freight or Pas.
f.ige, please to apply at Mr Jereirtian Warder'*
Compting House, No. it, North Third street,
or to the Master on bord.
August 30.
For SALE,
On board the said Ship,
Hollow and Window Olafs, Demyjofcns, Wrap*
piug Paper for Suf-ar Refiners, Rugs of 1 & *
QuilTings. Please ts apply as aßove.
wf&m^w
TO BE SOLD,!
And immediate fojfcjjion give*,
A Convenient will tinu.ied Brick*; enemenl,
with a cook house and other out houses, fitu
atc.d in a pleasant part of the borough of Wilming
ton, in tht State of Delaware—The let of ground
fcas forty feet front on Weft-flreet, and cxtendj
through the square to Paflure-ftreet, on which
ereded a flable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Vilmlntjton, Aug. *o.
City Comniijfioaers Office,
August 29, 1797."
IN purfuancs of an Ordinance of the SeleCi »n4
Common Councils, patted the aid day of\lay last.
Proposal- in wri'.ifg will be r«ceived hy the City
Corannfiioners for one month from the ift of Sep
tember next, foi letting to rent on (eases for on»
year £6 csmnience the firll day of January next, th»
fdtlowing public property of the city—
The wharf and landing on Vine Street,
Also On SaflaCrai,
Mulberry,
And / High greets,
Chefr.ut and' Walnut Streets, Draw Bridge, with
th« Scale and Fi(h Houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much,
thereof as (hall be occupied by any bnildings tretfU
ed for the use of the Cslleilor of the ToHs, Or b«
necessary for tile toll-gates.)
Ang. 3 3tawim.
FIVE DOLLARS REWARD.*
RAN away from the fubferiier, an indented
Servant Girl, named Manct a
bout twenty years of age, Ihort, thick set person,
with fltort black haij ; had on when (he went away,
a dark calico gown, an old black (ilk cloak, and' %
block fur hat. Whoever will secure (aid girl, and
give information thereof to the fub;criber. N0..3,.
Gieenle«f alley, or to the cfficc of this Gaaette,
(hail receive the above reward
All perToos are forbid harboring said girl, a»
they will be dealt with ?s the law <'.i#e<9s
MARY ANDERSON,
N. B. Said Girl. i< and fas' been *
this country but a (hort time ; (he was I'f'nt to ih«
wrrk-heufe for miiconduft, the was lakeit
sick and removed to the city-hofpiul, from which.
plae j flae made her escape. s
Auguji 30. eo.^t
Acl laying Duties on Sta?upid Vellum,
Parchment and Paper.
A FEW copie* of the -above a-fl rpay be ha-' at
the Office of the Gnzoucof |hf Staiet, N#
ti9, Chctot-ilreeV July 19^Just pirhliiliecJ,
•A'r.i to'bj'lold at 'the iicokftorcs of H. W P.J
Ricej
Ko. 41, Ciie'fnut-fl'rtet, and VV. Young,, \
i-omer of Chefnut and Sccnjid-ftreets,
-i\n accurate Syftem'of Surveying; '1
IN WHICH IS CONTAINFD,
, t. Decimal fraiilions, in a plain) concise,
iind'ealy rniinner.
1-. The extraction of the fgtiaVe roof. , r
3. Plain trigonometry, reilan'gular and oh- (
iique.
4. An exaS method to cafl up tJre coiitelats
sf lands.
5. Field furvcying.
The whole being performed witholit the We
of scale and compafTes, on a table of logarithms,
fn which is given some accc unt of the variatiou
of the needle, and the caules ot its attrition.
By SAMUEL MOORE.-
T." lawiw
(Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extrafl of an ail passed by the Legislature of
the state of Marj'and on the 19th December,
1791, entitled, " An »£l for eredling a bridge
ovtr'Potowmac river.
'• And be it enaSed, that the said direiflors or
any two ®f them shall and ttiay require any sum
or sams of money in equal proportion from each
ami evefy proprietor, as may Irom time to time
be nectfiary for carrying on the buihling of said
bridge ; and after giving three months public
notice, it shall and maybe lawful for the direit-.
tors to l'ue for and r«CQver in the nam# of the
company such unpaid requisition, with all costs
and charges incidental thereto, and kgal ii)tereft
thereon l'rom the time the fame should have
Keen paid : And the negledl or refufal to pay apv I
fucli requisition after public notice shall have J
been given at lead for three mouths in all the
new fpaper3 heiein before enumerated, shall have r
the effefl t« forfeit all preceding paymen's made ■
on the share or shares so negledled or refufed to I
ht; paid to the life and benefit of the company." d
mation of luchof the stockholders as have not 1
complied with the requisitions heretofore made «
—they are as follow .On the ift November, j
1795, 20 dollars, on the 10th May, 1796, 40 S
dollars ; an the aoth July,
the ift September, 1796, 40 dollars, and on the
ift November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution i»
now given that after theexpiration of the time
limited for the' continuance of this advertise
ment (three months) the law will be carried
into rigid and complete efFedl against all delin- \
quents.
By order of theDireiflors,
IV Ai. TER SMITH, Tr,afur,r. |
May I, 1797. I»w3 re ,
Just Receive.d, i
Frotti Batavia (via Providence)
A few Boxes of Spices, feniillinj of
Nutmegs, Clones and mace
For lale by
HILLINGS Es" FRANCIS,
Venn, street.
may 30 d«f ,
Davis's Law Book Store,
No'. 319, High-Strut.
■GEORGE DAVIS,'
IJEING busied for some time past in prrpara
f tioos for removing into his present house, has
been under the neceflity of poflponinguntil this day
informing the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro'
the United States,'that hit spring importation of
law hooks is now arranged and ready for lale, on
terms that he trulls will entitle him to the like pr»-
freence he has experienced for leveral years pad.
' Catalogues, combining the mofl varied collee
tibn ever imported i/ito this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
June 27. taw 6w
City Commijfioners" Office,
June 21, 1797. ,
IN purfuince of an ordinance from the feleift
and common councils, palled the aid day «f
May last, appointing the city commiflioners,
and preferring their duties, feflion 9th,
NOTIC£ IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That tire city is-divided into five diftrifts,
each to be under the fuperintendance of one of
the city commissioners, whoistobe individually
felponfible for the of the fame, and
are as follow.
"Driftriil No. 1. From the Youth fide of Ce«
dar-ftr«et, to the north fide of SprQce-ftreet, un
der the fuperiatendence of Nathan Boys.
2. From the north flde of Sprnce-fireet, to
the north fide of Walnut-flreet, under the super
intendence of Hugh Roberts.
3. From the north lide of Walnut to the south
fide of High-street, uader the superintendence of!
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fidpof High-street, to the
north fide of Mulberry street, under the super
intendence ef William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberry-street t*
the north fide of Vine-street, under the super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks-
The cleaningof High-street to be in common.
t? A stated meeting of the city eommiflion
«rs is held at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock.
July 14. eoim
Stands for Draymen, SsV.
In ptirfuanct of an Ordinance from tbrStlrft and
Common Counc il,bearing date the lid daj of
April, 179 J, providing for the appointment of
City Cominifflonirs, iSc. Sect. tbs.lsth.
■ r * following places upon by the
JL said City Commifiioners for Stands for
Draymen and theh - Horses.
In Vine-street, ealtward of Front-ftrect, on
■both fides.
SafTafras, High,Chefnnt and Walnut-fttreeu,
eastward of Front-street, on the no.-th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to
Third-street.
Front-llreet, east fide from to
Elfrith's alley.
Front-llreer, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's llores, east fide.
Water-street, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Moorr's stores to Pme-ftreet.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Cedar-street, weft
fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South ftreeti, east of Frost
street, south l'de.
Dock-ttreet,' between Walnut-street and the
flag (lone crofting*, east fide, opposite George
Orklev's.
Second-ftreef, between SafTafras and Vine
{treats, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry streets.
Saflafras-ftreet> from Third to Fourth-street,
east fide.
No dray, or horse to stand within ten sett of
FOR HACKNEY COACHES.
Pine-street, nortii fide from Fourth to Fifth
between CheSiut and YVAlnut
streets, weft. L ,
Branch-street, north fide, between 1 hird and
Fourth streets.
July 14* Riw&iiyn
A Literary Trent.
J lift published, handsomely printed on writing
paper, price I dollar,
A new edition of that popular ?nd entertaining
work, entitled
'T'HE FORESTERS, an American Tale ; being '
i a sequel to the history of John Bull the Clo
thier—la afcriesof letters to a friend, with the ad- 3c
ilition of tw 0 letters, alluding to recent political
tiranfa&iont in America.
The foliowing eitrail from the Clavis Allsgorica,
fhews'the principal chara&ers that arc introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of England
Hli Mother, tht Church of England
Hi* Wife, the Parltament
HisSiiler Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
| Lewis, the Kingdom of France
Hi* Mistress, the Old Conflitutiop
His lew Wife, the National Representation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic '3
The Ferefters, the United'Statu of Ameriia -
Robart Lumber, New-Hampfhirc •'
John Codline, Maffachuletts 3;
Humphrey I'lowlhare,. Conne&icut
Roger Carrier, Rhode U\and 5C
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
Julius Casfar, New-Jersey
William Broadbrim, Pehnfylvania tii
Caffimar, Delaware th
Walter Pipewood, Virginia bi
Hit Grandson, George Washington
Peter Pitch, Ntyrth Carolina m
Charles Indigo, South Carolina b<
George Trufly, Georgia el
, Ethan Greepwood, Vermont, ,
Hunter Longluiife, Kentucky il
Black Cattle, Negro Slavas V
Rats, Speculators le
Mother Curey'i Chickens, Jacobins 1c
0- This,popular and entertaining satirical hilld- t\
ry of America is attributed to the Key. Dr Bet- f}
knap. It has a great fhnre of originality and a- «
boHuds with genuine humour. It is continued tt
down to the present time, and ch»r»<JUrife« those L
late political tranfaAions which have caused fd b
muck uneasiness in America. il
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. l 6( t )
South Second Street, and No. 50, Marks'ft.ieet. b
June 16. 5
LAW BOOKS, I
Latefl London and Dublin Editions
H. fcf P. RICE, Booksellers, ,
No. ii, South Second, and No. 50, Market street, b
HAVE just received by the hte arrivals from C
London and Dublin, their fpti«g import*- a
tion, confiftingof a variety of the latefl and m«ft
approved Law Books, whicV added tothofe alrea
dy on hand, forms the mod extenlite colleAion ev
er offered for fait in this country. They theiefore
beg leave to notice. th«t from the nature of their
Dublin, they are enabled to felllrifh
tuitions (at they have hitherto done) at the very f
lowest prices. The following are among the latefl 1
publications*
Vefey, jun'rt Reports in Chancery, 2 1
Peake's Cases at Nitt Print ; Ridgeway's Reports 1
in the time of Lord Hardwicke ; Floyer't Probers ]
Pra&iee ia the Ecclefiaflrca' Courts ; Barton's
Treatise on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's Praiftice of 1
the Court of King's Bench in Personal A (ft ions, 2
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruile
on Uie» ; modern Reports, 12 vols. Lo«don edi
tion.
H. and P.Rici expedt to receive by the firft ar
rival from the 6th vol. complete of
DuruforA and Eafl's Reports, the ad part of Gil
• hert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 16.
The History of Pennsylvania,
BY ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and wiH be published,
with all convenient exfxdltion, by ZtCHA
riah Poulion, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed profkufali, until the
work is ready for the fubfcriberi.
July 18. aawtf
Printed Calicoes.
F JOHNMILLER, Jun. & Co.
Ni. 8 Cbefnut-Street,
' Have for gale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly affcrtei, very low on
' short credit.
March 6. §
, Richard and James Potter
HAVE.removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftrcet.
) ziuguft ». w&f6t
1
Lane after, Harrijburgh Carlijle,
Shippenfburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
- nrVHE public are re<juefled to take notice, tha*
I the partnership which has for some time sub
. fiftfd between Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
- William Geer, is now difTolved : bat, not as M.
. Slough inflnaatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a Utter on the fub
jedt from M, Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
- December last. a rscital of which is not now deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
j more infuriped of the merits of
, this business by applying to W. Geer ntay have
L »he perusal of M. Slough's letter, and then can be
' at full liberty to "determine whether or not W.
Geer is not, perfectly juflifiahle in attaching him
e felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
"" Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
n Now from the liberal and grnerous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
B> this business, Vt illiam Geer, in conjunction with
f. Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
:o to profecilte and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and difpateh that a zeal to oblige the pub
to lie can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
J. with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the pafTage #afe and rommodious, inform
0 f those wno wi(h to patroniic and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at,
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaftcr, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
established.
For the further accommodation ot the public,
,e a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
* 4 of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Tburfday,
le and return from thcoce and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that pafTengers destined for
il" Lancafteror Philadelphia, may proceed o« Mon
t, daJ "' WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 37, 1797-
N. B. This Line of Stages starts 'from th«
house of William Ferroc, in Lancafttr, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
:h ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Eltler in Harrifburg every Wodnef
lt day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
d from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routini daily at in its tour from Philadel
phia. . tr.Wf
City of Walliington.
J Fi
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For tbe Improvement of the Ftderal City.
A magnificent iwrelling-houfe 40,000 dollars,
3c ca(h 30,000, are 5,0,00u
1 ditto 15,000 & cask »j,ooo 40,00 a
1 ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,000
1 ditto us,ooo & ca!h 10,000 »0,000
i ditto { 000 & cash 5,000 10,000 L
1 ditto 5,000 & ca(h 5,000 10,000
I calh prize of 10,000
3 do. 5,000 oacb,are « 10,000 -
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
io do. v 500 - - io,opo 111
00 do. 100 - • 10,000
»oo do. 50 • - 10,000
400 do. 45 - >O,OOO
1)000 do. 10 - 30,000 j n
i 5,00« do. 10 - tjo,oon
'
1
15,739 Prizes. p,
33,361 Bhoks. r dr
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000 Bi
■ . ut
N. B. To favour those who may take a quan
tity of TiAets.the prize of 4®,000 dollars will be
the l^3t drawn ticket, and the 36,000 the last
but ONI :
And appj-ovednotes, feeuring payment in either
mon«y or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not left than 30 tick
ets. /
This Lottery will afford an elagant specimen ef
tbe private buildings to be crtSed in the City of
Walhington—Two beautiful defines arc already
(defied for the entire fronts on two of thepubli*
squares; from these drawing«it ispropofed toereft _
two centre and 'our earner buildings.as soon aspof
fibje after this lottery is fold, and to convey then*,
when complete, to the fortunate adventursrs. in S<
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduflion of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print- g
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of y
the fund int«nded for the National University, to
be eredled within ths city of Waihington. £I
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payraset of the. j,
Brizea. are held by tbe President and two DireA
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at g
more than half the amount ol the littery. t .
SAMUEL BLODOET. a ,
„§, Tieketi may be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Feter
Oilman, Boftoo : of John Hspkios, Richmond ;
and of Kickord 'W»IH, Cooper's Ferry.
1 rnwf f
tc
From fte Otjlgo Herald.
CAUTION. ,
WHEREAS a eombination of men in this m
county hivo un '.ertaken to enrich th«m- j tl
selves, by fabricating titles to sundry valuable trail s h
of land, the property of gentlemen living in New ■ o
York, Philadelphia, London anu Paris, for which v
trailp of lsnd large sums of money have been paid f'
to those fraudulent men, by innocent purchasers • ''
It is therefore just. that public information should 4
be given, to the end, that the injured may seek re- 1
dress while the men have property, and are to be
found. Those who have be«n discovered areTru- j
man Jofeph Witcomb, (aid now to re- (
fide in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and £
several othert who-go under fi&itious names. 11 is (
supposed that the lauds offered fcr sale on those fa- c
bricated titles, are at lead worth fifty thousand c
dollars. Such as we hav«a<Slual knowledge of are t
as follows : Lots No. II and n, Qtfege pstent, f
thousand acres each,the a<9ual property of William
Dellwyn, now of London ; lots No. 58 and 64. ' c
fatije pstent, thousand acres each, the property of i
Mr. Chaumonr, now of Paris, and ames Avenll
and others, ot this State. There is some grouads c
to suppose that the lands of Richard Wells and
Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their j
management.—The Printers will do well to give
this a place in their papers, a« well to caution tKe (
public against purchasing those lands, as also to de- (
prive those men in future from imposing on indivi- :
duafs, which their education and address have en- 1 j
abled them to do heretofore. Witcomb has been |
a shopkeeper of some note in this country. I
The following affidavits will fct in a clear point ,
of view the wickedness of those men, which whtn 1
the public have perofed, will induce them to ei- |
cufe the interference of Wm. COOPKR.
Otfego, July 38th, 1797.
1 Thomas Kelly, of the County of Qtfcgo.hav- 1
, ing been led into an error, f.y John Witcomb and
Truman Harrifon, of the fame County, to sign a
deed to them, for lot No. 58, Otfego patent, whiao
- was the property of William T Franklin now M".
Chamont's and others ; and further the f*id Jntcjfi
and Truman did persuade me to do this against my
inclination, which wsj made out on the icth dsy
of November, 1793, or set back two years so as
to bring it to that time ; and further the nam* ef
Pardon Starks to that deed was a fi&itious nani«,
> there being no such perlon there. To this I make
voluntary o«th. THOMAS KELLY.
19th July, 1797.
On the 19th July, 179 7, came personally before
me, Thomas Kelly, the subscriber to the abovs as
* fidavit, and made solemn oath that it contains noth
- ing but th'. truth.
i KLIHU PHINNEY, Justice of the Peace.
I; On the lßth July, 1797. came before me Jacob
", Kibby, a person by me well known and worthy of
- good credit, who on his solemn oath did £ay, that
h two of the parties Abovementioned did mike ap
-- plication to him this deponent, some lime in the
e winter of 1796, to makt them a deed for twothou
'f sand acres of land in the Oteeo patent, and pro
e mifed this deponent a share of the profits, on the
e sale of said lands, for his so doing ; and th-t they
'• made.applicationfeveral times for the fame purpo e,
1- whish fsrvicos this deponent as often refufed,
e claring to them th»t he had no right to tapcis, and
I* could do no such thing ; which daring attempt on
this deponent's integrity he had related among his
e friends several times, previous to making this alli
n davit. JACOB KIBBEY.
it Sworn before mc,
d ELIHU PHINNEY, Justice of the Peace,
t- Aug. 3. iaw4W.
I'hirty Dollars Reward.
d TJLOPED from therfervicc of tke subscriber,
o XL on the 19th instant, a negro man by the
n nameofDlCK, about.twenty-five years of age,
le and five feet nine or ten incbt* high ; by trade
it a carpenter, and is a very lively brisk work
e, man. His countenance is very good—When
iy spoken to, he converses with eafc and confi
?> dtnee, and is pretty sagacious. I purcha/ed
10 the said fellow of Mr.Dubney Minor, in whose
name he has been advertised in the Richmond
c ' newspapers. During his last runaway trip (last
k fummtr) he was employed a considerable length
3 " of time, by some person near Dumfries, from
which eircumllance, I conjedlure, he has taken
° anither nothern route I forewarm.all persons
from giving hiro employment, of any kind
whatever, and maftersof veflels and others, from
carrying him out of this state. The above re
ward will be given if he is taken within forty
it miles of this city; and an additional sum, in
proportion to the diftanc# he may be brought.
I. or the trouble and expence the apprehender ma{
,f beat, in bringing him to this place.
J-. AUG; DAVIS.
1. N. B. His apparel was of the usual negro kind,
H but he ha<l more cloaths than is cuftomaiy for
le them to poflefi.
I- AD.
RiGhtnend, June 11, *797-
Will be Landed,
From onboard the ship AAiytf, Capt.Br.Aiß,from
Hamlwgh,
20 bales white'Aufiia clean Hemp L
2 calks Clover Seed c
For Sale bj
Thomas Herman Lcuffer, t
North Fifth street, No. 34. j
Tunc a
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE '
Ho. 64 south Second-street. '
TI CKF-T* in the Canal Lottery, No. sI, which "
commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR '
SALE. Vhc price of tickets will rife in propor- «
tion as the drawing advaiiccs, particularly on ac- "
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of «■
four thousand dollars each, on the lad day ct <
drawing. 1
Check Books kept for examination and regiftcr
ing, in the Canal, No.t, of Walhington, Ns. „
i, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets forfalcinthe. Schuylkillbridge and ,
Perkiomen Bridge lotteries, will begin (
drawing is the course of the fammcc.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Motes, Lands, £cc- &c. tranf»&«d with the
utraoft attention*
Jutfe 1 tn&f • a
Erfkine's View of the War. [
JUST PUBLISHED, i
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No. 40 South Second street,
fPrice j 1 Cents]'
A Viaw of the Caufet and Confequen
' ces cf the present War with France.
By tbe Hoaorable Thomas Erskini.
May 15 , $ (
~ST AT E TRIALS. \
Sold by W. Yoon«, BookfelUr, No. 5«, South S«» t
coild-ftreet, t
The Pennsylvania State Trials, 1
CONtaming the impeachment, trial, and acquit- f
al of Francis Hopkinfen, Judge of the Court of (
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen- t
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, % (
dollars. t
W. Yowno has for sale, a general affortraentof
Book*. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack-
ege, well aflorted,and entitled to the drawback if
axpo-rfced. Jaly 7— *
* "T " ' <
I M-iE SUBSCRIBER' having beco appointed by j
the Envoy Extraordinary £nd Miniftei Pleui
potenturyof Uis Britannic Majesty, General -4gent
ioraflfiding Britiih creditors, and (uch particular a
gents a» they i»«*y fpajally authorize, in profecutiug ; „
th«ir claims before the ceramiffioncrs for carrying im- j
; 10 the sixth article ot the Treaty of Amity C<w- j
merce and Navigation between kis Britannic and . 1
I the UnitU States as America, hereby gives natice that J
he has opened his office ar his houfc tbe fooih east ' ;
corner .of Chefnut and filth (beets* Philadelphia, j j
where he is ready to receive all elaims or iotiiufitious
for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the purpose of bringing few ward the fame Agree
ably so the rules and orders which the boaid nay
think proper to prefcritfe.
And ai it will be for the interest of all coaaernad,
: that the federal claims be so stated, and- fupport
-1 ed, as to prevent the delay which would arise from
the nectflity of obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials Jrom periods residing at a distance,
the general agent thiaks it his duty to add, (for the
dire&ion chiefly of those, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the profecucion of
their claims to his charge and management) that all
such claims ougnt io particular to set forth—
tft. The proper defcripaon aed fitoation of the
: creditor or claimant, end original debtor, refped
ively.
ed. The date andoature of the original contrail or
debt.
3d. When, in whet manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant was prevented or impeded,
by the £roviion, operation or detett of law, the
clecifions and pradtice of courts, or leftraint of exe
cution, from recovering payment oi the defet in
question.
4th Thelofsand damage incurred or sustained,
j in confequcnce of such impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen from the infolveney, change of
btuatioo, ordeaihof the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from lapse of tame, or oihercsufet impairing
the value and feeurity of tbe debt, which would nor
have so operated if such impediments had no; <xifted.
And sth The particular grounds and reafona on
which the claimant maintains, in tbe terms of the
treaty, that " by the ordinary course of judkhl pro
ings, the creditor cannot qow obtain and a&ually
have and receive full and adequate compenfaiion" tor
the lofTee and damages so fußaiued.
Tbe general ageni tbinks it his duty further to fag
geft that the several claims to be accompanied
and supported by the af&davits of tho clairaantfi duly
sworn and regularly attested, both as to theexirteuce
of the debts claimed, and such other cirGumft*.nces
as may be within their own knowledge relpe&ively.
And wherever the claimants in dating tbe nature of
their evidence (which mufl in every inftznee be the
bed of which the cafe U capable) have occafcon to
refer to thetellimony of witatflei, it will be proper
to apprise tbe general agent of the names and places
of residence of foch witncHesand the fa£bto be eda
blifhed by their teftiirfony/
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelnhis, June ftih, 17q7- .
, For Sale,
' That tuill known place, called andeghht's
1 FMII,
ON Nefharoiny creek, 18 tjiiles from Pbih
ladelphia, on the Kew York pofl road,
containing 74 acres-and 94 perches. Upon the
premises are a large two ft»ry fiqne house occu
\ pied asatvern, and a good one fiory stone kit
chen, a large fr«me stable with a gocd threlhing
' floor, and l'orae oul boildings—alio a well of
I good wa ( ter, and »n excellent ice House. On
, this f)lac£ is a moil elegant situation fora gentle
t man's feat, commanding a view of the Nelham
- iry to its junAion wiih th? Delaware, *nd thence
v across to the Jersey shore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Snbfcriber,
mordecax lewis.
Mav 24. atawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
e Boarding School for young Ladies.
> tv tRS. GROOMBRIDGiC with much pleas
e i\X ureand refped, returns her finopre ac
" knowledgement for the libera! encouragemest
II ihe has received during four years,refidcuee in
' Philadelphia ; and aiTurts her friends aiwl the
? public, so far from intending tJ decline her
e school, she has made a superior arrangement tor
the more convenient accommodation of Iter
fcliolars. —Every branch of ufeful an(l pclitV
educatian is particularly attended to by Mrs.
11 Grooinbridge and miliars excelling in their
11 refpedlive profeflions.
8 Corner of Spruce and ElevenA Streets.
June sth, 1797- Jinojaf
n The situation is perfeflly healtky : andmade
more agreeable by an extenfivo garden and lot
y of gr'iund adi»ining the hou'.e.
, Jujl Published,
y And to be had of Messrs. Dpbfonj Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfcllers in tie
city,price one dollar, twinty-Sve rents,in Kc»r<!s,
'• ' N-ew Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and lotions of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BAB.TQN, m. ».
June jo.y
No. 183.
JdflriS of Pennfyl'uatna, to luit :
l. s. ~R E . IT REMEMBERED, that on the
-ij fifteenth djy of June, in t|ie twenty '
firfl year of the Independence of the United
Statts of America, JaMhs WoodhocjSe, of
the said diftridl, hath dtpofited in this office the
title of a book, the right whereof he claims ai
autiior, in the words following, ft> wit :
" The Young Chemist's Pocket Companion,
" being a Description of a Portable Laboratory,
" containing a Philofophieal apparatus, and a
" great number of Chemical Agents, by which
" any pcrfon may perform an er.dlefs variety of
" amufirig and itiflniiling Ex] #iiments,defign
" cd for the use of ladies and gentlemen, and
" intended to promote the cultivation of the
4< Science of Cheniiftry in the United States of
" America. By Jami-s Wocdhouse, M. D.
" Profeflbr of Chcmiftry, in the. University of
" Pemifylvania. President of the Chemical So
•* ciety of Philadelphia, &c.
" At present every thing that is not denomi
" nated Cheniiflry, is but almall part of a fyf
" tern of natural knowledge.
PrUftly on Air "
In conformity to the a& of the Congress of the
Unitedfoates,
of learning, by fecuringthe copies of
maps, charts, and books to the authors and pro
prietors 6f such copies, during the times there
in mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of the
Diftrufl of Pennsylvania:
July 18. —wstf
No. 188.
Dyir'iS of Pennsylvania, to quit :
. s ) T>E IT REMEMBKRED, that on the
D twenty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the'indeuendence of the United
States o£ America, Johh Fenno, of the said dif
tri<9,hath depofitedin this office ihe title of a book,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, ib the
words following, »o wit :
".Obfervations on certain documents contained
" in No. V and VI. of " The Hiflory of the Uni
t" ed States for the year 1796," in which th« charge
" of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton.tate
" Secretary of the Tresiury, is /jjlly refutec—
" Written by himfelf"
In conformity to '.he*a<ft yf Congress of the
Ucited State*, < *St for the encour
agement of joining, fecmring the eopies of
maps, charts and >, to the authors tuJ pt opri
etarsof such copies, during the tinier men
tioned."
SAMUEL CAUD^ELL,
CltHt tie ViJlritt Fcr-nfylva*:*.
July 27. , i f 4sy
Public Notice ii> hereby given,
r "I"'HAT at Juneterm, 1797, a petition was
X presented to the Court of Common Pleas,
held at York Towjn, in the State of Pennfylva
riia, at the tnftance of James Short, praying
the Court to supply a loft deed made by a cer
laiu Andrew Hickenlubtr, to Hugh Morrifon,
Jtmet Morrifon. and John Sample, executors
to Morrifon, deceased, for fix hundred
■ acres of Land, fiti'ate in Menallea
townlhip, in the county of York :—All per
font who have any objections to nake to the ek
jefl of the said petition are desired to attend at
the Court H»ufe, in the tovrn of York, on the
jth day o> September next, otherwise the loft
deed will be supplied.
JOHN IDIE, Clerk.
July IS. o*lßs
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on fjjturdsy lift, two indented Ser
vants, Gifford Dally, a mulatto boy, about 17
years of age, a dim lifht built aiSive fellow, cau
read and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
has a heavy countenance; hkd on a fuftixn coatee
and trowfers, a high crownA hat, fine /hoes &«.
Allan Helloes, a black man, about 24 years of
age, five feet feveu or eijjht incbes high.athick set
clu.iify built follow, particularly about the breechf
ha'fon a faikirVblue jacket lined withfwnnikin,
dark striped vest, fuftian trowfers.. high crowned
■ bat coarse (hoe«, See.; each of th"Si bad feveraj
ftiirt*. and several other cloathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, «/■ ij dol
lars for each, and reasonable charges, on delivering
them at No. 54, North Third-street.
The black fellow is about a year from Lewis
To-.vn, in the Couuty of Suffer, state of Dela
ware, and hat taken the boy witfc him.
July 31. Bitu*f3w
CAU TIO N. ~
WILEREAS Richard Lake has been at
tempting to l'ell a certain meuuageor ten
ement and lot of ground, situated on thefouth
fide of VLne-fttreet, in the city,of Philadelphia
containing in breadth, on Vine-flieet. fix teen
feet, and 111 depth, southward, seventy five feet,
bsunded on the norrit fide by Vine-ftiett, on
theea# by ground late os-Samuel Rhddes and,
Sarah hi> wife, on Ihe south by ground late of
John Pembeiton,and on the weft by another lotr
then about to be granted to Joseph Hulings—
. This is therefore to caution all perf«ns against
purchasing the above described property, the
fame having been mortgaged by the laid Rich
ard Lake to William Spade.
SARAH SPADE.
July. 14 ' eoiw
Muftcal lnjlTument
hp. 167, Arch-Street.
HARPER, hnrpfichcrd,grand, portable grand,
fid:-board, pier table and square f ia»o fot-e
maker from London, returns thanluto his friends
1 and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
■ and hopes that by his assiduity and attention to e*-
■ ery branch of his fcufiiu'fs, to merit a continuance
? of their fnvors. Piano farfces made on the new eft
i and rnoft approved plans, with pedals, patent,
swell, and French harp stop, whrch he fiatteis
himfelf will *oe fomid on trial by tinprejudietd
judges, to be equal if not fuperiorto any imports
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inftru
~ m*nt purchased of him, if cot approved of in
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of Musical inflrumenta
•_ uned, and repaired with the grcareil accuracy,
dispatch, and on the most terms, lvf r
t ready money only.
Second hi.nd Piano Fcrte> taketi in exchange,
May i-c. &ana.
r I'orly Dollars Reward.
r "O AN away from the fubl'criber oil the fccj
r IV onddiyof this inll. July, a Mulatto Mao,
e named Will Bewzer, about forty years of age,
• five feet seven or eight inches high, rather
r chunky made ; had on whea ht went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, striped purple trowfers
and jacket. It is probable he will ch»nge his
clpathee, as he took a number with him. The
e faii'l fellow formerly belonged to Mr- Charles
1 Blaße of this place ; and it is expefUd he has
made towards Jones's Neck, in the Delaware
State —Any person apprehending the laid fel
low, ajsd l'ecnring him so that I can get him a*-
' gain, Ahall receive the above lewarii if taken
" Avt of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
'■ the coun'y, and all reafonabie charges if bro's
- house.
JESSE REED,
Quees Ann's County, Maryland
J«!y 3- , .. . >vjt