t\yz and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1559 j
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRT GOODS.
■ T Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. 36,
».r j ) south Front-street,
j Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
C South Front-street.
f'Forenoon— JflJui.ConarUy, OW City
T'-t '/7 tV Aadion, No. 73 f iuA I'ront'ftreet.
' "' y Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C 183 High-street.
Wed>terdai\ Afternoon—Peter denfon, No. 74
> south Third-ftrcet.
Thurfdav \ Forcnoon —Edward Fox.
Jy I Afternoon—John Connelly.
p • • > Forcnoon—William Shannon.
" 5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday "Afternoon —Peter Benfon.
United States, ") n-
Pennlylvania Didrift.
IN pursuance of a writ to me directed from the
honorable Richard Peters,tfifq. fudge of the
l)iftriil Court of the United States in and for the
Pennsylvania Diolriift, will be Cxpsfed to Public
Pale, at the Merchants'Coffec-houfe, in the city of
Philadelphia, on Monoay, the eleventh day of
September next, at 11 o'clock at noon,
Tbt Brigantint, tailed the
MARIA,
With all and Angular the tackle, ap
oarel and furniture at they now are ;
the laid Brigantire having been condemned to pay
Mariners wages, &c.
Wm. NICHOLS, MarJhaL
Marshal's Office,
August 19, 1797. y
N li. The Inventory may be seen at my Office
For HAMBURGH,
btats. '"pHE Copper Bottomed Ship
fAVOIMTE, John
Thompson, Mister, now at
"'■'g'"' 4 wharf, and will be rea
" =dy to take in on Monday next,
~~ part 'of her cargobcing engaged
and ready to go on board. The (hip is so well
known, that it is needless to describe her. She
is now in compleat order. For Freight or Paf
fnge, please to applv. at Mr Jeremiah Warder's
Compting House, No. ii, North Third street,
or to the Mister on bord.
August
For SALE,
On board the said Ship, Swedilh Iron, allotted
Hollowand V/indow Glass, Demyjohns, Wrap
ping Paper for Sugar Refiners, Rugs of 1 & 2
Quality. Please to apply as above.
wf&m4w
White Havanna Sugar.
1401 boxcsl of very fuperiorquality now difcharg
-75 hhds. I ing from the ship HamHurgh Packet,
at, Walnut Street wharf—and for sale by
Philip Nicklin & Co.
N. B. 4
THE BUI P
Hamburg Packet,
Silas Swain, Maftert
gale, or Charter.
Aug. 24. eotf
""COMMISSIONERS' SALES,
r I" , HE Commiflioners of the counties of Ly-
JL coming and Northumberland, have given
notice that they intend to proceed to the sale of
lands, for the arrearage of taxes, on the 7th of
September next.
T The different printers in this city will
reuder an eflential service to a great number of
individuals by publifbing this notice.
Aug. 18.
FOR SALE,
BRETAGNES in cases
German Checks in do.
CambricU ♦
Plattillas
Oznabrigs
Gold and filverWateh«
Window da!'* 10 by 8
Glass Tumblers in cases
Linseed Oil in sulks, &c. Sic.
George Pennock,.
101, Uiph-Strcst.
July s• 3*w
NOTICE.
IF Theov O'Hara, who some years fioceSept
School at the Nine Bridges, Queen's County, Eas
tern Shore, Maryland, be living, he is hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. Ambrose
Marlhal, near Warwick, Ceeil County, Eastern
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will receive iu
terefting information.
Auguji 4. mw&f4w
THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GRSENLEAF,
HEREBY give notice, that they have disposed
of the property afligned to them for the securing
the payment sf tiie note*, acceptances, and en
dorfoments given by Edward Fox, for the use
of the feid James Greenleaf; and the holders of
such notes, acceptances, and endorsements, are
hereby notifyed that the subscribers will fsttle
with them for the amount of their refpedlive
iclaims, both principal and interest, at
3ny time before the asth diy of pdlober next;
after which day, the holders not applying, will
Joe excluded, agreeably to the terms of aflign
jment.
Applications to be made at south-east corner
of Dock and Seeond streets (the Dock-street
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
•lock every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tho. IV. Francis,
John Miller, Jun.
John AJhtey,
Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, August 18, 1797. d
The Inhabitants of the Diftri&
of Southwark,
* RF. informed that a Coachee is provided, to be
J. Ii- kept at the Constables' office, the north east
c»rner of Front and Almond streets, where the
friends of th«fe sick persons who dtflre to be rs
moved to the City Hospital, are requelled to make
application—Alio, a Heptfe will be kept in readi
ng's for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE
N. E.— The Poor, who wish to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may be furniflied with ordits
fcy applyins 35 A"i- *9
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 7, i 79 7.
BLOOMSBURY.
To he Sold at PUBLIC.SALE,
ON Friday, the eighth day of September
inft. between the hours of twelve and five
o'clock in the afternoon, at the h'oufe of Wm.
Hay, ißkeeper, in Trcriton, in the State of
New-Jersey, that elegant feat called BLOOMS
BUKY, :he feat of the late John Cox, Esq.
deceased, with the appurtenances ; containing
4cc aarcs 06 i.mo, with a suitable proportion
of irdblt:, rnrar'aw, and wood land. The prin
cipal tnanfion lloul'e is within a half a mile of
Trenton, and on the river Delaware. Thefitu
ation arfd improvement of this tftate is such as
to be worthy the attention'of any gent:emn
wilhing to retire from the city. —The terps
will be made easy, as a great part of the pur
chase money may remain in the hands of the
p'archafer for a liberal term of credit, on giv
ing fatisfailory security. Attendance will be
given on behalf of the subscribers, who can
make an indisputable title for thipremifes.
EJlher Cox,
John Stevens,
Matthias Barton.
September 1. ' dtjth
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto ditt.i Clafet w cases
Jufc received, and tor Sale by
Rundle & Leech.
at. sawtf
To be SOLD or RENTED,
AL'ROF, j Story Brick House, on the
South fide of Filbert street. between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
veyor General's Office.
The Building i 5.36 feet front and 35 feet deep,
the lot 110 feet deep, with the privilege of a nine
feet wide Alley *xtendi»g the whole length, of
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
to turn ii). The House is not plaflered, and
may be turnad either into one, or two dwelling
Houses. It is fuitahle for a large Manufaflory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
poflefliou will be given,
Apply to No. ill, Chefnut-Street.
Aug. ar. cod*t.
TO BE SOLD VERT CHEAP .'
A Light W aGGGN almost new, with a frame—
and a pair of harness (Englilh collars) has never
been used—price 90 Dolls.
A Horse 16 hands high, seven years old—and a
new chair, with a falling top and harness— 320.
Enquire No. 331, Market-street.
August 14. diw
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price 3-Btbt of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents
Contained id No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the charge of speculation against "
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secret art of the Txeasur, is FULLY
REFUTED.
m t j r r 1 w ir uinsr.ir.
This publication presents a- crncife ilatement
of the base means pra<stifed 6y the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the chara&ers of those
parsons who are considered as hostile to their disor
ganizing fchenies. It also contains the eor
refpondenct between Mr. Hamilton and Mtflrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on the fub
jecS of the documents aforefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the polTibility of a doubt,
that the connection between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring conspiracy on the part
of the latter aid his alTociates to extort money.
fjT A difcouat of one third from the retail price
be made in favor of wholesale purchasers, for
cash. Orders to be addrefled to Mr Yoino.
Au™fl 2s.
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
Stage starts from the GEORQE Tavern,
l at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every TuefJay, Thar/Jay, and Satur-
Jay, at 3 o'clock, in the trorning ; arrives at Ho
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the second day, at
Norihamptoa Court House the third day, and on
. the morning 0/ the fourth day the palTengcrs find
a fafc and comfortable packet to convey thorn to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton feiry,
every Tuefdiy, ThurfJay and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wednesday and Friday ;jputs up at Snow
Hill the firft night, at Dover the id night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of she third
day. '
Thediftanee on this routs, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles less thap on any stage route
between those places.
Too much cannot befaid in favor of the road,
which is 111 of; excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
passenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
August 11. dim. eotf.
Young Hyson Tea.
40 cherts of a superior quality—Also,
100 do. of Hyson,
Imported in the Woodrup Sims, and for sale by
the subscribers, corner of Second and Pine
street.
C. Hciight..
June it. eotf
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-street,
Hyson }
• v yf ° n u'r >TEAS
Young Hylon (
Imperial J
April 10. eotf
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufa&ured as tifual,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Burton Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-calk or gallon —suitable
for exportation or home confunoption—
For Sale hj
"John liawortb.
No. 98 south Front street
By John Fenno, N°- \l9 Chef nut Street.
Higgins' Specific
FOR TUB
PREVENTION AND CU&E OF THS
YELI.OtV FEVER.
EVER since this d:feafe niide fucli ravages in this
1 city and New-York, the author has turned his
attention to its causes and cure.—The roiult of his
enquiries has Convinced him that the rcatun w hy so
few persons recover from 'its attacks, are from its
not being well understood, and the confequeiit
wrong method taken to cure it. He is persuaded
that theexcelfive bleedigns and mercurm reatmect
ol the Faculty is highly injurious, and thxt the on
ly rational mode of treatment is by the use of prop ;r
acids. Convinced of this he offers his Sfrdjic as a
eertain remedy, it used according to the directions.
To be had in bottles, at one dollar each, of the
inventor Geo. Higgins, Cherry llreet, two doors a
bove Ninth street, (late manager ot Jackson and
Co's Medicine Warehouse, London); by J. Lt
tlanc,No. 216 ; IV. Griffith, No. 177, T. Pear,e, Ho.
~1, South Third street, T. Stijf, No. 55, New street,
near Vine street, and J. Gate., No. 36, Race street.'
Aug. ij. tut-hs
City Commijjlovers Office,
August 29, 1797.
IN pursuance of an Ordinance of the Sclcd and
Common Councils, pafled the 22d day of iMay last.
Prop«fals in writing will be received hy the City
Comnuffioncrs for one month from the ift of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leafea for one
year to commence the fir ft day ef January next, the
following public property of the cftf—
The wharf and landing oil Vine Street,
Alfa on Saflufra*,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Draw Bridge, with
th« Scale and 1 ifli Houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedaf
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hal!.
The Tavern at the middle ferry o* Schnylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (execpt so much
thereof as thall he occupied by any buildiags erect
ed for tbe iiie ofths Colle&Qr of the Tolls, or b«
n-'ccfl'ary for the toll-gates.)
An ff- 3 Ttawim.
T~O B E > S O L D, '
And poffejjion given immediately,
ALaRGK two story brick House, handfoiaelj
fttusted in Princeton. There are four rooms
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings 51 ftet in
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. There is a pump
in the yard, an excelled! kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
(tables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, witk
flails in the two ftablet for 17 horses. The heal
thiness and pleasantness of its situation, and the
number of genteel and agreeable families in and
near the town, render it a defirablc retreeat for a
gentleman from the city. The commodioufnefs of
the house, its central position, and the largeness of
the (tables, make it every suitable for a tavern, for
which it has always been considered as a capital
(land. Inquire on the prenlifes, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN, jun.
Prineetoß, Any, zj. 151 —diw»*wlf
80 Dollars Reward.
LAST night the (hop of the fubferiber wa? op
ened, and fcveral articles off. t» a
common blaclTleaVher pocket book,eoiitSinlng two
twentydollarnotes of the laftemiflion of thePenn
fylvania Bank, and a number of loose papers—
one piiichback, watch with a carved cafe, and fix
filver ones—one of these a French watch, original-\
ly made to tell the day of the month, but this part
of the workshad been taken out—the figures on the
dial plate were left—Another was made by Love
land, London, the number 3113 ; a third was mark
ed 011 the dial plate as wel as theinfide, Amber,
New-York. No further particulars arc recollefl
•d. Whoeverdifcovera the thief, or thieves, so
that they may be prosecuted to convidion and tbe
property lecovered, (hall have the above reward.
Forty dollars will be paid for the property alone,
or in proportion for any p»rt of it
THOMAS LINDSAY.
N. B. All watchmakers are reqtieft«d to stop
he above watches if offered for laie.
Frankford, August 19.
, A up. 21. , roßt.
IMPORTED
In th« fliip America, James Ewinj, mailer, from
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands
White PlatillaS
Ticklenbhrgs
Coarfc Linens
Tapes
Looking Glares 7 r
Class Tumblers j *> t
FOR SALE BY
George Pennock.
Aufu/t 14. 3aw
A Cook wanted.
A WOMAN who under Rands the bufmefs and
can bring good recommendations, may find employ
and receive generous wages byapplying at No. 67,
north Seventh-street.
»5• *3t
Wanted to purchase,
A pair of flout, well broke Horses, young and
found. Enquire a»t Mr. Qellers' Hotel, Chefnut
ftreet.
Application must be made immediately.
August '* *it
The Partnerlhip,
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN 55* Company,
is difloived by mutual consent. All persons
having any demands agfinft the said House are de
iirod to render the fame to T, B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to the House are desired to make pay
ment to him—By whom business will in future be
carried on,aftiisStore, No. 39, South Front-street.
August 7 eod4w
PETER BORGER,
INFORMS his friends and the public in general
that he has removed from No. 119, corner of
Arch and Fourth, to No. 105 North Front,
tween Arch and Race ftreetsk
July a*. zaw4w
Ro/s y Simfon,
HAVE FOR SALE
C Hoglheads,
Excellent Coffee in < Tierces, and
C. Barrels.
A (mall parcel of nice cocoa in bags
A few puncheons Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior Teneriffee wine, old and in Madeira pipe*
An invoice of jewellery and hosiery be fold by
the package
A few hampers' bsll Engl Mb cheef#.
July 37. dtf.
Imported inthefhipMANCHF.STER,
Benjamin She well, Mallei 1 ,
From Boimleaux, 311 d ft>r sale by the lubfcriber,
No. ii Walnut Stieet..
Bonrdeaux Brandy
Irifti market claret in cases / Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. J Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrayd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calk*
Rota do. t do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bulhelg Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
A, PERSON OF INGENUITY, lately arrived
from Europe, wifiies to find hel-e a place in
the quality of a Director of a Glifs-houfe, Chryf
tal of all Ainds, having particular means for the
conftruiftion of the kilns, pots, &c. and polTeffing
likewise the articles used in the Glals houses cf
England and France, having worked a long while
in of them. Every exertion will be mide to
render the manufa&ory deserving cf public appro
bation—He, who wishes to speak to him, will find
him at No. 275 Front-lb e«t.
tor iale or to be let on ground
rent,
■A valuable Lot qf Ground }
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, frontivs the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present twofmall two llory brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Aba, for
Two three fiery Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate an
Water-street, between Mulberry and SafTafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward nine:y-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and arc a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour factor, or others who
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
forcafh. For further information apply te the
ptinttr.
July u- . m&wtf
The Subscriber has for Sale,
A large afiortment, of India Muslins,
coarse and fine
India Calicoes
Sooty Romalls
B'ue Cloths and Checks
Bantlanna Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irilh Linens and Sheetings, well
affortcd
A box of Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
Two boxes ef fine Spices, (staining Nutmegs,
Mace and Cloves
Black Temper of flrft quality
Eld India Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Win*
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimstone
Mordecai Lewis.
Avgufl la, £awim
J ...
Cedar Shingles.
THE fulifcriber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar
Shingles of a superior quality, for falc at 13
dollars psr thousand.
William Hallow ell,
No. 193 North "Third-Jlreet.
July 7,J. eoiat
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an ad of Congress ef the
United Stdtes of America, passed at Phila
delphia, the 18th day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ties on Carriages, for the conveyance of persons,
which shall be kept by or for any person, for his
or her own use, or let our to hire, or for the
conveya»cc of pafiengtrs, the several duties and
rates following, to wit :
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every Cl nriqt, I a dols.
upon every Pod Chariot, la doU.
upon every Poll Chaifr, l i dols.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top,
9 dols.
Tipon every Coachee, 9 dol*.
upon other Carriages, having pannelwork
above, with blinds, glafles or curtains,
9 dols.
upon f®ur wheeled Carriages, having fra
med posts and topi with (leel springs, 6
dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
enj>r iron fprinss or jacks, 3 dols.
tipo£ Curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
u on other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or
iron springs, 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, a dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed posts and tops, and rellirg up
on wooden spars, a dols.
The Collc&ors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Diftrivft of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September n-xt, for
the pui pose of receiving the duties 011 Carriages, at
No, 117, in Race or SafTafras-ftreet, in the City of
Philadelphia ; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Ef'q.
in the County of Montgomery; and at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ;
of which all perfonspolftHed of iuch Carriages are
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given, i
TO aH retail dtalers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled fpintuous liquors, that licences will be grant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the busi
ness of retailing of Winis, in a less quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the bufinefs.of retailing Sp:- .
rituous liquors in less quantities than ao gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorised to i>rant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeitor of the Revenue of the fird fui>
vey of the Diilriftof Pennsylvania.
Office of Inspection at iim
Philadelphia, jld Aiig«ft, 1797. }
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Sifth (tract, corner of North alley, Ne. 34,
HAS FOR SALE,
IpXCEI.r.ENT red Bourdeaui Wine id ca£>«za4
-i boxen, Hi years old
White Graves Wine in cases
° tlicklenburgs
r«{RJ %ireiwfn
Ravens Duck ♦
Bag Linen
Hessians
Diaper and Table C.'otk
Empty bags
Common German Cloth '
An aflbrttnent of black coloured Ribbow
Fine German Licet
About twelve tons RuEa clean Hemp ;
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in fmali boxes, for family use
Window Glass j Aug 29.- law
THIS DAY WAS PUBLISHED,
And for sale by IHOtIAS DORSON, at the
Stone House, No. 41, south Second flreet.
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Consisting of a variety of Miscellaneous Pieces Tor .
the inflrnilion and YOUNG PER
SONS—SixVolutneshandJpmely printsdand bound
up in two# olumes, price l wo Dollars.
The variety* ahd excellence of these pieces are
such, that the book needs only to be knovrn to i)e
universally efleemcd one of the most valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the hands of young
persons.
4< Delightful task to rcartlie tender thought,
To teach the Young id?a how to lhoot,
Fo pour the freih inftru&ion o*£r the mini,
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The generous purpose in the glowing breast. M
Thomsok.
Augufk %4» mwf4W
: IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOSSON-,',at the Stone Houft,
No. 41, south Seeondftreet,
Letters and Conversations,
between several feting Ladiee, on improving and inr
terefting fubjeiSs.
Translated from the Dutch of Madame de Cutslai,
with alterations and improvements,
Printed en fine paper, and neatly bound,
Price one dollar.
AM IDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales ef extraordinary distress, or of defperato or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book Comes forward to fo
lic it notice,-where, in a variety of ineidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, be»aufs
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
ohara&er is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and prcfents examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publifcer was fomueh pleased with the pern
fa!, that he was persuaded he (hould do a pleafioj
service to the community by fending it in:o circu
lation. August 14 —mw4w
7e Mqjlsrs and Pilots bringing up Vcjfth
from Foreign Ports to tb'u City.
WHereas sundry infringements have lately bee*
made on the laws of this (late for the pre*
venting peflilential or 'infectious diseases, either
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publish the following ex
tracts from the law« of jid April, 1794, 7th and
Bth fe&ious.
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June"6th, 1794.
Extrnß of an aS for feettring the eitj and fiorX
of Philadelphia from the introdußion cf pcfli
* Untial and contagious diseases. '
Sect. 7. And be it further tnaifled, that every
mailer or captain of any fitip or veflel comieg'from
sea (vessels actually employed n the loading trade
excepted) and bound to any port or place within
the jurifdiilion of Pennfylvania,fha ! l catife his fliip
or veflel to be brought to anchor,or otherwise flay
ed in tfie flrenm of the river Delaware, oppsfite to
the Health-Office on Stati-lfland aforelaid, and
there to remain until he shall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of heal h from the Refidcnt Phy
sician. Andil, prcvisufly to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any mailer or captain {hall
fuffer his ship or veffelto approach nearer than tha
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
fhail land, cause or fuffer to be landed, or brought
on ill ore, at any place or port within this Colo
ml>nwt*lth, or at any other port or place, with th»
intent of being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any person or persons, or any goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving fu«h bill of health
or certificate, he shall neglect or refufe to deliver
/the fame to the Kealth-Officer, such mailer or cap
tain shall forfeit anct p .y, for each and every such
offence, thefumof utt hunqued boilass.
And the captain or matter of every Uvip or ves
sel shall fend a fafe and commodious boat to bring
the physician oti board, and shall in like manner
convey him back to the Htalth-Oflice, after he has
concluded his official examination ; And while he
is making such examination, or in cafe any fubfo
quent examination by tha Health Officer or Con
futing Physician, agreeably to the d reilions of
thi- a<s, the mailer or captain shall expose or catife
to beexpofedto tiiefsarch of the Resident Phyfi
cian,or of the Health Officer and Consulting Physi
cian (as the cafe maybe) each and every part of the
(hip or veflel, and shall prefeut to his view each
and every person Qr persons on board thereof, and
and shall also true and fatisfatSlory anlwers make
to *ll such qtieflions at the Resident Physician, &c.
at tlve time of examination (hall alk relative to tht
health of an}' port or place frmm which the ship oc
veflel failed, or has fuice touched at —the number
of persons onboard when the ship or vefful entered
on her voyage—the nurilber of persons that hava
since been landed or taken on board, and when
and whererefpetftively—what persons on board— 1
f they hate been- during the voyage, or fhail, at,
thp time of examination, be infeiled with any pet*
tilentral or contagious disease—and what is the pro
feiit slate and condition of the persons on board
with rcfpc<ft to their health or clileafes. And i£
any mailer cr captain shall refufe to expose as afore
aid, to the fearchof any of the officers aforefaid,
n if he ihall corneal any fuk person, or in any other mareb
jrr deceive the proper aforefaid in bit an!kucri.
uch captain or mailer, for every such offence, fhail
forfeit and pay the film of five hukersd »ok
tAl'.S. i
Hect. S.'f'And if any person or perfops whatfs
ever»( the Resident Physician, &c. excepted) fhail
go on board any veiTel, before the mafler
has refeivefi a certificate of health in the mannes
directed, every person so offending, shall pay th#
Um of MSNDRKD DOLLARS
IT being absolutely necessary that the foregoing
fcSions should be pun&ually complied with, the
fubferiber, in compliance with his duty, mull c-x- 1
ad a rigorons observance of the lame, or else b«
undtr tha necessity of puttirsg the laws in force.
Wm. ALLEN, Health Ofaer of tU
Port if X bildJelpbia.
July 14.
July 14.
[Volume XII.%i)t .
PHIL A DE^PHIAi
ftmmSDAY E'/ENInO, September -;.
tINIFCRM for the Navy if the UtilftD
S-tATfcS of Am*RICAi
CAPTAInKs VNIFORM.
fctJLL £)RjESSED C OAT. Mue cloth,with long
buff larp Is, and a fta»din , collar, and lin
in<?."of buff-«-tp be m?4e knd triihmed ful
with a tfdld epaulet on *ach fhotilder. The
tuffs Miff, with four buttons, and four bu>
' tons at the pcckets Lappel* to have nine
buttohs,aud o e to the Itiin ifig Collar. But
tons, yellow metal, and to have the foiil an
chor and Am<lic>n l* agl<t pn the fame.
VEST and BREECHIi.v Buff. with iJap.s and
fbur buttonstcr th*> pockets <>f the vcfts, (n as
to corrsfpofid avd he in uniform vshh tbft
coat. Buttons the fame kind as the coat, 011-
, ly proportionably smaller.
LIEUTENANTS.
GOAT. Lohg, blue, with half laj?'peij, landing
col'ar, and lining of buff. The lappels to
have fix cuttoi>3, and one to the collar ; be
low the lappel, fide, three button*, l£ft
fide, three close Worked button holes. Three
buttons to the pocket flaps, aftd three \o a
slash lleeve, with a buff cuff. One gold epau
ict on the right flioulder. Trin mings, pftgfci
i twist.
VESI and BRHECHESI * Buff—The former to
be made withfkirts, and pocket flaps, but to
have no buttons to the pocketsi The buttons
for the veil and breeches, and coat, the fame
as-lor the captain's uniform.
UEWrr N ixts OF MARINES.
CCAi'. Lcnjf, blue, with long lappe)sof red;
ftardirc collar and lining, red. The Jappcls
to have nine buttons, and one to th.' stand
ing collar. Three buttons to th« pocket
and thrss to a flifh sleeve, a r«d cliff.
One gold epaulet on the right (houlder, for
the senior. lieutenant, whore there are two
lieutenants for the fame Ihip, and one on the
left (houldfr for the fecord officer. Where
i# only one lieuteqart, he is also to wear
the epaulet on the right flioulder. J'rimming •
plain.
VEST and BREECHES. The former, red with
fkfrtsand pocket Caps, hut to have.no buttons
to the pockets.—The latter blue—Buttons,
for the suit, the fame as the captains and lieu
tenants.
surgeons: "
COVr. Long, dark green, with black velvet
hppels, arfd Handing collar —Lappelsto have
buttons, and one to the (landing cAllar—No
linings, other than being fated with the fame
tloth as the coat. Slalh sleeves,' the cuff the
sam- as the facing, with three buttons.
Pocket Saps, plain.
VEST and ftRKECHESi The former, red, dou
b e breasted The litter, green, fame as the
coat. Buttons, the fame as the officers.
surgeon's mates:
Tha fame a« the surgeons, with only this difference
in the coa*. to wit-—Half lappel*, with fix
buttons, and one to the collar ; below the
lappel, right fide, three buttons ; left fide
three dole worked button holes.
SAILING MASTER.
COAT. Ecng, bine with facings and (landing
collarrf the fame,edgsd with buff—nine but
t»ns to the one te the Handing col
lar. Lining blue, or faced with the fane as
the coat—S alh flceves, with three buttons.—
Pockets pluin.
VEST and BREECHES. Plain buff veil—and
blue, breeches. Buttons (for the suit) the
fame as for the officers.
♦ PURSER.
COAT. Plain frock blue c»at, with the proper
naval buttons—N* lappels.
VEST and BREECHES. Buff, and plain.
MIDSHIPMEN.
COAT. Plain frock coat of blue, lined and edg
ed with buff, withsut lappels, a (landing col
lar of buff, and }>lain buff cuffs, ojen under
neath with three buttons
VEST and BREECHES. Buff—former to be
made round and plain—Buttons (for thefnit)
the fame as before described.
MARINES.
Wain .*bon coats of blu«, with a red belt, edged
with red, and turned up with the fame, with :
common small naval buttons, with blue pan- i
talsons edged with red, and rsd veil 9. ]
Csrtains, lieutenants and marine officers, to wear ,
when full (Jreffud, cocked hats, with black
cockades,and small swords (yellow"monnted) '
and when undressed, such swords as may be <
hereafterfixed uponorordered.whichfaid fwerds 1
are to be worn at all times by the midshipmen, ,
who are to wear cocked hat«, Sic. when full j
dressed only.— surgeons mates, failing mat
ters, and pursers, cocked hats and black cock- '
ades. 1
JAMES M'HENRY, t
Secretary of War. 1
War-Office, August 14,
<
N.B. SUMMSP DRESS.—Vest and breeches ,
(excepting fer marine foldlers) to be white, .
or nankeen, as may correspond with the uni- '
form, &c. ice. Marines, wliite linen overalls.
s
•« We understand, (fays the Majfachufetts 1
Mercury,) that Citizen Barney's conduft is j 1
cenSsred by the French Government. It j t
is Said he has uSed his Squadron for his own ' 1
emolument, rather than the good of his Di-
reftors: and that the most enormqus allow- 2
ances for his convenience and entertainment,
have been made by the St. Domingo Com\ '
miffioners, without the knowledge or con- '
sent of the republic." a
Upon a thorough invelligation, it is pro-
bable that the French Government will find
that " enormous*-allowances have been made
for the convenience and entertainment of othier
" patrotic" Gallo-Americans, besides Citi
%en Barney. It is well known, that during
the more turbulent periods of the revolution, £
■when one party held the reins of power no
longer than till another gained fufficient ,
strength to drag the leaders to the Scaffold,
thpt some who left America, bankrupts in v
point of property, and went to France, ob
tained employments under the feecefiive
fadtions which deluged that country in 1|
crimes and blood,, by which, from the " en- t ,
ormous allowances made for the convenience :
and entertainment," as well as to Requite their y
ferv'ues, they have amafTed immense for- |,
tunes. Some have been uncharitable enough
to foggeft that, in the consequent confuGon
eoucamitant «u continual change; in the
controlling councils of France, the ,eviden
ce; of property entnifted to the diipofal of
agents in behalf of the French nation, were
put out ofjighi, and that no documents could
afterwards be found toeffeft a Settlement:
others have fnppofed the existenCe of a ver
bal contrail between the then ruling party
D of the day, and the persons employed— and
when the ruler became Subjected 'to the na
tional razor, the advantage of coUrse rested
wi?h the agent who had pi'evioufly received
% the cafh-—ea(h proceeded from the sale of na-
I tional domains—but much oftner stripped
le from victims whose blood had formed rivulets
- under the guillotine, in confequenee of its
lc being laid to their charge, that they were
rich.—While the diredtory may be pursuing
meafurei to rid France of the last remains of
d those vultures who have been preying upon
is vitals of nation, and " driving from office"
ie such as have countenanced the piracies upon
'* the property of neutral powers, in the course
of their proceedings they will undoubtly find
that much treasure has been lavilhed for the
g. " convenience and entertainment'' of agents at
o home and abroad—As far as America has
afforded refuge to those who have been con
' veniently entertained, at tbeexpenfe of France,
a for purpoSes fubver'five of the neutrality and
, honour of our country,it is a happy circum
n /lance that the vigilance of Government,
and the watchfulnefs of those who have
0 been entrusted with the management of pub
is concerns,as yet have been able to coun
e tera<ft every nefarious plot—and it is sincere
ly hoped that such may be the change of
sentiment and measures in France, that diS
grace will soon be conSrdcred as attached to
> those who have originated, as as those
who have aided a conduft long witnessed
1 with detestation and horror.
?: • .
r The judicious and/independent Editor of
the New-York Daily Gazette,.makes the
! following remarks on a letter, recently pub
t lifhed, disclosing the French scheme for
. burning the capital towns of America.
£lf the above extract be true, what are
the citizens of the United States to think
of the conflituted authorities of their great
al}y ? The appointment of Santhonax to
to the chief command of St. Domingo, was
one among the numberless bad effects of
[ the faftiou3 spirit which has prvailed ia
, France ever since the revolution—Previous
to his mission to that unfortunate colony,
i last spring, his administration there, had ex
• hibited decisive proofs of his qualifications
to destroy, and his titter incapacity to re
store—but, in spite of this convidiion—in
spite of the lpirited remonstrances of the
colonial agents who predi«3ed the eventual
and speedy ruin of the whites, and the de
teflable elevation of the negroes over their
heads—in spite of the prayers and tears of
proprietors—in spite of the obvious interests
of the mother country, as well as of the
colonies which could only be advanced by a
mild and equitable government, and with
out which, infteadofan advantage they must
neceflarily be an incumbrance to France -
In spite of all these important confident kins,
that unhappy predominating spirit of fadtion,
carried its point, and delegated this moil
odious of all tyrants to exercise the supre
macy in that unfortunate ifiand—Thecon
fequenccs are well known—The nervous apd
pathetic speech of Vaublanc in the council
of 500 on this interesting fubjeft, which
drew tears of indignation from the mem
bers, against the criminal authoc of the vil
lainies perpetrated—was only the prelude of
his recall—and it is hoped his fate, when ar
raigned before an impartial tribunal, if any
such ex ills in France, will be that of all ty
rants who are compelled to account for their
conduit. The known disposition of thin
man and the general tenor of his administra
tion in St. Domingo are fufficient to (lamp
the fadts contained in the preceding letter
with the seal of authenticity. That he is
an enemy of this country is undoubted
and that to injure us as far as podible would
.be the highest gratification to the feelings
of his diabolical foul, is equally true—But j
there is another confederation—His enmity
against the emigant colonists, is most bitter ;
every measure he could devise to injure them
would naturally be pradtifed—Knowingthey
are retired to the United States—and reside
in the principal cities, the most eligible way
of persecuting them would be to expose the
small remains of their former opulence, to
the ravages of conflagration - and as this
must neceflarily involve in its effects two
classes against whom he harbored the great
est malice—the emigrant French, and the 1
citizens of the United States ; he engaged
a troop of incendiaries to come over and set
fire to our towns'.
After this information, who can doubt 1
the source of the evils which the several ci- 1
I ties in various states Suffered by fire last win- i
; ter ; and the numberless attempts made in I
| this particularly ; though by the care of <
Providence, and the vigilance of our citi- <
zens, unfuccefsfully. We trust a similar 1
spirit of vigilance will be manifefted the pre- <
sent autumn and winter ; for it appears that
these vile missionaries of fire and deftrudtion, J
after returning to their employer at St. Do- (
mingo, received the promised reward, and <
had set out again for the United States on <
a similar errand. They must then be among j
us. Let us therefore beware of French- t
men ! They are Sacrificing us wherever 1
they can at sea, plundering and robbing our -
property and abusing our persons ; and if i
they can do it with impunity by land, will 1
it riot be undertaken ? There are undoiibt- t
' edly men among those now in this country, t
who pofTefs honor and principle ; and <
whoSe profeffions of gratitude for the asylum t
afforded them, are Sincere : Such deserve 1
regard, efleem and protedtion ; but the {
Scoundrels who join our own degraded par- j
ty of Jacobins, and, in conversation as well <s
as pamphlets, vilify the people and the go- c
vernment of the United States, deserve to a
be expelled with abhorrence, as intrusive f
pells, and dangerous enemies to our internal j,
tranquility and SaSety. p
This will pot be thought Severe when it \
■ is recolK;£te(i that the (hip Mount Verhon,
f which was captured last spring, at the
: mouth of the Delaware, and carried to the
1 Weft-Indies, Was condemned on the autho
: rity of letters from some rascally Frsnch
- men who declared the property tobeEnglifh.
f When such unprincipled ingrates are
1 found among a certain class of men, the
- whole are pften fufpefted, as it is' difficult
1 to draw the line of discrimination ; and if
1 any severities are uttered against the French
" by the people of this country, it is obviouf
-1 ly the effect of their own condu&. <•, The'in
s tiocent and well-intentioneql are too fre
• fluently involved in the stigma ; but in the
■ present instance wc are Confciotis that there
r , art large ntimbers of innocent unfortunate
f emigrants among;us who deserve commife
-1 ration for their fufferings, instead of being
' fufpefted of villainy.
From the\ Virgiwia Gazette, JsV.
No. VI.
A DtTBIOPIMEIIT Of T;HE CAUSES OFTHfi
i DISTURBANCES BETWEEN TH AMERI
CAN AND FRENCH REPUBLICS.
, Addrejfed to the Citizens of America.
1 MY FEtLOW-CITIZENS,
THE letter said to be written by Mr.
, Jefferfon to M. Mazzei (after stating the
change which it is there said had taken place
from our former love of liberty and repuili
■ canifm, to an anglo-monarchico-ariftocratic
disposition) proceeds thus : " Nevertheless,
the principal body of of 6ur citizens remain
faithful to republican principles. All our
1 proprietors of lands are friendly to those
; grineiples, as also the mass of men of talents.
1 We have against us (republican's) the ex
ecutive power, the judiciary power, (two of
the three branches of our government) all
: the officers of government, all who are seek
ing offices, all timid men who prefer the
■ calm of despotism to. the tempestuous sea of
liberty, the British merchants and the A
mericans who trade oh British capitals, the
fpeculatprn, persons interested in the bank
arid public funds. [Eftablifhriients invented
with views of corruption, and to assimilate
us to the British model in itscorrupt parts.]"
This is one of the parts of the letter so
injurious to America—one of those very
mifreprefcutatiom, spoken of by Mr. Pinck
. ney, which have brought oar misunderstand
ings with Fratiee upon 4s !—By which, to
use his own words, they " entertain the
humiliating idea that we are a people divided
by party, the mere creatures of foreign in- 1
fluenee , and regardless of our national cha
ra&er, honor and interest," have become '
the fit objefts for them to cxercife their will '
and power on. It is their belief of this .very
difference between the views of our goxern- i
ment and the wishes of the people, spoken
of in this part of the letter to Mazzei, there
is no doubt, which has induced them to a&
the part they have towards us. Here it is j
said, that the people of America and their
in dire it opposition to each
other; consequently, that it is the natural
Wish of the one, to get rid of the other
And along with this fair declaration of the
desire, gots every possible encouragement
and invitation to join in the attempt. " The
prtneifat toJy vf ■«<«»«■< remain,faithful
to republican principles ! All our proprietors
of lands are friendly to those principles, as
also the mass of men of ta'ents t While we
'hare against 11s only the ex
ecutive, the judiciary, the officers of govern
ment, a few Jpeculatirr, and all timid men.
Therefore, come on ye Frenchmen ! You
have only to declare it, and- this contempti
ble faftion, called the American government,
is at once annihilated !I" This is the fair
declaration made in this part of the letter,
aud the absolute proposals made to the
French people by such declarations.
Well might Mr. Pinckney fay, indeed,
that it had been owing to mifreprtfentations
"of the people and our government, that our
disturbances with France had been brought
upon us : For from whither else could these
disturbances have possibly proceeded If
there had been no misrepresentations, there
would have been nothing for them to have
quarrelled with ; for such are the principles
of our government, that whatever are the
dispositions of the people, such abso
lutely must be the operations of it ;
and consequently, if the dispositions of
the people had been what is there
said they were, those afts of the go
vernment, which were their abfoluteqreating,
would never have gained the difplealure of
the French, while the spirit and dispositions
of the people obtained their approbation.
A correft knowledge of the principles of the
American government, and the aiElual dis
positions of the people towards the opera
tions of that government, would have left
no room for an enmity towards the one, and 1
a friendfhip for the other. It was only,
therefore to a misrepresentation of those prin- '
eiples and those ditpofitions that so absurd a
eontradi&ion could ever have been attri- :
buted ; and it is in that contradiction, most 1
certainly, that all our differences exifl. 1
I have already shewn the glaring mifrepre- .
fentations with refpeft to the principles of 1
our government. It only now remains to I
shew those which relate to the dispositions 1
of the people towards the operation of it : 1
And in doing this, it will be necessary still 1
to hold in idea the principle of the govern
ment themselves. By the confutation of ;
America, it is clear, that all the great and I
important officers of the government, on 1
whom the operations of it depend, are erf- :
tirely dependent on the will of the people for j i
their existence. If therefore, " the prin- 1
eipal body of our citizens, all our propric- ' 1
tors of lands, and all the mass of men of ta- !
lents, remain faithful to republican princi- 1
pies," as no doubt they do, how can it i
possibly happen, that theft should " have j
againjl them, an executive and judiciary" of f
contrary principles ? Would the people, who J
are thus armed with all the powers of the t
government, eledl an executive, and they a <
judiciary, direftly to oppose that very peo- c
pie's will ? The people might indeed for a t
while be deceived, asd call roes into office t
n. of principles contrary to their own ; but a
lc repetition of their eledtion,after their princi
ple pies were known, whatever those principles
0- might be, is a fair and unequivocal declara
h- tion of the principles of the people them
h. selves. .
re The executive of America, who were thus
le said to be opposed to the principles of thpfe
lit who elefted them, and who had themfilves
if elefted a judiciary, also opposed to those on
:h whose will they the'mfelves existed, were
if- twice elected ; the President by the unani
n- mous voice of the whole of the. American
e- people ; and at the approach of the third
ie election, the most anxious and decided dif
re position again to elect him ; and finally, on
te his declining to serve, the strongest fenti
e- ments of regret that ever accompanied any
ig man in his retirement from public service,
, together with the promotion of the vice
( president to his place, who for the two elec
tions preceding, had formed part of that
very executive those opposed to the will of
those' who elected them, form the very
6 Jlr° n g and clear proofs of the people and the
1- government of America being opposed to
each other : Added to which, every inflaace
in which the people have been "cal|ed on to
decide on to decide on the a&s of the execu
t. J tive, they have clearly and unequivocally
ie declared in their favor.
:e What were the efforts made in the cafe
j- of the proclamation of neutrality, to obtain
ic the disapprobation of ihepeoplel And what
s, was their abfohite and final decision in £on
in sequence of those efforts ? The conduit of
ir the executive was approved ; and the inftru
fe merit of JJanee who had been employed in
s. off?ndiiM*%oth the people and the govern
c- ment of America, was withdrawn. And in
'f the cafe of the treaty, at present the great
11 and pretended cause of complaint on the part
t- of France, the people not only decided by
ie their vote through their representatives on
)f the fubjeft of appropriations, but in their in-,
i- dividual and primitive capacities, were be
ie coming exceedingly uneasy and clamorous at
k the appearance of an opposition, until their
d representative will had been thus obtained in
e its favour. One glaring contiadiftion. res
" pe&ing the will of the people had the dif
o positions of our Government being in diredt
y opposition to each other, here defervts to be
:- noticed. Ou the Banking abd Funding
I- ' systems, the assumption and excise laws, the
0 head of the executive was accused of having
e laid the foundation of monarchy and atiftol
- cracy, by consenting to those afts of the
i- | legiflatifre, which were in fa£t the afts of
i- the people : and in the cafe of the treaty, he
e was accused of the fame disposition, for liav
-11 ' ing entirely disregarded the whole voice of
y t)ie people. Was the latter the truth, it would
- I afford the.highest paife ever offered to the
n : disinterested patriotism of a man ; facrifi
e : cing the only possible- personal consideration,
1 the love and admiration of the people (yi
is ; which his whole greatntfs had been found
r j ed, to what he, in his fo'itary opinion, con
h ceived to be his country's good. But the
d truth is, the President was in this latter cafe
- of the treaty, governed by the fame princi
e pie of administering that kind of govern
t ment which was the wilt of the majority, that
e he had been in fanftioriing the acts of the
'1 i»egiflature in those former cotes.
t The will of the majority of the people of
s America in the banking, the funding fyf-'
e terns, &c. were conjliiutionally conveyed to
- him through the afts of both houfeso sCon
- grefs. That will, on which he acted in
. ligning the treaty, was conjliiutionally convey
l ed to him through the vote, in which it had
- two thirds of the Senate in its favor. To
, have refufed his signature in either cafe,
r would have been to have gone in. direst con
, tradiirtion to the will of the people in any
: way that will could have come to him, to
have been depended on. True it is, the
clamours against the treaty were very great
when it firft appeared, slut when it come
to be fairly understood, I believe it may be
truly said, thata great majority of the people
of America were in favour, even of its me
rits ; and with refpedt to its execution, af
ter it had been formed and fan&ioned by
the Senate and the Preident, there is no
qneftion of the dispositions of the people, in
its favour. But it will be faidTlnt it was
necessity and not choice, that made the
people anxious it should be carried into ef
fe3 at that particular stage of it. So was it
necessity and not choice, perhaps that Jed
to the negociation of it. What was the ne
cessity for carrying the treaty into effe& af
ter it had been adopted by the Senate and
President? To avoid a rupture with those
with whom it had been negociated.' What
else was the cause of that negociation ?
In what then has the will of the people,
or their principles, been in contradiftion with
the executive or judiciary; the pnerepu/i/i
---can, the others monorchia/ and arijlocratical ?
With refpeft to the judiciary, their dccilibns
on the points complained of by the French,
have been in ftridl conformity to the con
ftru&ions put upon our situation by the exe
cutive in their discussions on those points.—
Consequently, if those conftru&ions of the
Executive were consistent with'the sentiments
of the people, the judiciary was not opposed
to the people, as it is said. The most of
those conftrudtions,it is to be observed, were
begun and ably supported by Mr. Jefferfon
hitnfelf.
Early in the dispute between America
and France, Mr. Jefferfon, as Secretary of
State, established some of those very prin
ciples himfelf, in which it is said the people
and our government have so widely differed
since. In his commumcaeions with Mr.
Genet, we find the following doftrines laid
' down. «' I believe," fays his letter of the
24th of July, 1793, " 'hat by the general :
law of nations, the goods of a friend found
in the vessel of an enemy, are free, and the
goods of an enemy found in the vessel of a
friend, are lawful prize. Upon this princi
ple I presume, the British veffek have taken
the property of French citizens found in
our vessels, and I confefs I Ihould be at a loss
on what principle to reclaim it. It is true,
that sundry nations, desirous of avoiding
the inconvenience of having their veficls
•i flopped at sea, ke. h»rh mftnnces
• introduced by their special treaties, another
principle between them, tint enemy bot
toms (hall make enemy goods', and friendly
, bottoms goods ; but this is altoge
ther the effeft ofparticular<Teities, controul
ing in special cases the general principles of
the lawof England Has determined
to adhere to the rigorous principle.*' And
in his letter of August 16, 1793, to Gov
erned Morns, onrMinifterin Paris, on the
subject of M. Genet's condnft, he fay's,—
•' W* suppose it to have been long an efta
bliihtd principle of the law of nations, that
the goods of a friend are free i« an enemy's
vessel, and the poods of an enemy, lawful
prize in the veffcls of a friend. We have es
tablished a contrary principle, that free (hips
(hall make free goods, in our treaties with
France, Holland and Prussia, it is our wish
to ellablifli it with other this
requires their consent also, and is a wcjrk ot
time. In the mean time they have a ri«ht
toaa on the general principle, (that enemies
goods are prize on board of neutrals with
out giving us or Trance cause of complaint."
Now, it is well known, that one of the
principal pretences of France, for her quar
rel with us, is, that by our .treaty with '
Great Britain, we have eftablilhed a prin
ciple with that nation, on that fubjeft,. con
trary to and more favourable, than is con
tained in our treaty with her ; and it is
principally on account of its. partiality to
Great Britain and enmity to the cause of
I ranee, it seems, that the government of
America has been charged with entertain
ing sentiments different from the people ;
the one monarchical and ariflocratic* —the-
other republican. That we have made a
treaty with Great Britain, contrary ii) thap
refpeft, to the one made with France, therfr
is no fort of question. But as Mr. Jeffer
fon himfelf has very juflly observed, the
principle eftablilhed 10 our treaty with
I'ranee, of free flips making free goods, " it
altogether the effect of a particular stipu
lation fontroulmg in a special cafe the gene
ral principle of the law of nations 5" and
that contaired in our treaty with Great
Britain, is nothing more than an acknow
ledgment of a right, by special, treaty,
which (he held and was exercising to its
fullcft extent under that " general principle
of the law of r.r.tions." We have Mr.
Jefferfon's authority, that/the American
i government " wijhed to establish the fame
principle with ether nations, that had been
eflablifhtd in our treaties with France, Ho!-
land and Prussia meaning Grrtt Britain,
no doubt, as it was oii f(ie condudt of that
nation he was then particularly writing.
This, however, it seems, Great Britain,
when we came to negotiate, was npt dis
posed to agree to ; nor was she obliged, if
(lie thought the advantages to be gained by
it not a fufScient compensation for the re
linquifhment, to give up an advantage
which ihe held by the general principle of
the law of nations, because France or any
other nation had been so liberal on their
part: and this, it seems too, Mr. Jefferfon
knew at lead two years before that negotia
tion had been set on foot; for " England,"
fays he, " is determined to adhere to the
rigorous principle,"—viz. of enemy's pro
perty being lawful prize" when found in
neutral (hips—ants of this neither " Ame
rica nor' France have any cause to com
plain," agreeable to Mr. Jefferfon's opinion
itfelf. '
As far as Britifli or French principles,
mterefts, or the partiality or prejudices of
America towards either, are concerned,
there is no real difference then between the
fentiinents of the people and the conduct
of our government ; but on the contrary,
it is clearly and entirely a mistake in Mr.
Jefferfon, when he fays, that " we have
against vs (republicans) the executive power,
&c." since it is evident that the condud of
the executive, on those heads, is but the
of the principles and reafonitigs of
that very republican himfelf. Let* us next
near Mr. j fft .'son as an orator, haranguing
againjl himfelf on some general principles
which will apply to this particular point.
In his fpeeeh to the senate, the 6th*of
March, 17.97, after declaring his zealous
attachment to the cunflitution of the United
States, he fays, ft and no one more fin
cerdy prays, that no accident may call me
to ihe higher and more important function*
which the constitution eventually devolves
011 this office ; [of vice prelident.]
These have been juflly confided to the
eminent character who has.preceded me
here," [Mr. Adams] « wha'fe talents and
integrity have been known zw& revcredhy me
through a long course of years, have been
the foundation of a cordialsnd uninterrupt
ed friend/hip between us j- and I devoutly
pray, lie may be long preferred for the go
vernment, the happiness, and prosperity of
our common country;"—and yet, thi»
verv Mr. Adams, for whom he his all this
cordial friend/hip, %vhofe talents and integrity
have been long known and revered by him,
and who, lie so devoutly prays, (perhaps for
the very frfl lime) may be long preserved
for the government, the happitiffs' and pros
perity of our common country, was one Q?
that very executive ; or at aov rate, one of
those officers of government, woo it ii ftfTerU
ed in the letter to Mazzei, are opposed ta
the republicans, la. all 'the principal body of
our citizeru, our proprietors of lands, and aU
this mighty ma/s of uijn of talents.
And I will here a (It, why Mr. - Jefferfon.
111 introducing Paint's f'irft Rights of
called on the people of America, " once more
to rally round the ftandardof CommnnSenfe,"
if he did not conceive they had. deviated
from those principles by which tlj.ey had
been aftuated when Paine addreffed'them
under that title ? And if they had deviated
from those principles, by what was that de
viation ascertained, but their dispositions in
the management of those rights and privilc"ta
they had just obtained? And where wer«
those dispositions to be found, according to
the reputed apoftacits trom rcpublicanifm t
but in the operations of the govejnmen!,
whofic ixgHttipt and officers, it is frgatio.faperceived, are at niagth w-npj> j/iti?rt ttf HiSjfe i
who created them arid set m motion tliafe 1
principles, for which, they therefc'.Yrrs had ! i
. been thus accilfed ofideviating from tire ft&rt- ;
dard of Common Sinfe ? It fallows then, 5
from every public expression of Mr. Jefferfon '
himfelf, that t here is no difference jjf fenti- ;
*'* ment or principles between the people imd J;
the Government of America !
AMERICANUS.
From a London Paper of July T2.
The Lite Right Hon. EDMUND BURKE.
Of Mr. Burke's talents and acquire
ments in general, it is 11 ( leceflary to speak.
Tliay were long the glory of his country, j
and the admiration of Europe ; they might
have been (had it so Coiififted with the in- j
fcrutable counsels of Divine Providence)
the filiation of both. If not the most ac- ?
complllhed orator, yet the mott eloquent
man of his age, perhaps second to none in
any age ; he had still more vvifdom than °
eloquence.- He diligently collefted it from
the wife of all times ; but what he had so j
obtained, he enriched from th 6 vast treasury
cf his own observation ; and his intellects,
aftive, vigorous, comprehsnfive, trained in
the difcipliiie of true philosophy, to what
ever subject he applied it, penetrated at
once through the furface into the essential •
form of things.
With a fancy Angularly vivid, he, least
of all men in his times, indulged in splendid
theories. With more ample materials of
every kind than any of his coterhporarifes,
he Waj the last in his own {kill to innovate.
A statesman of the mod enlarged views,
in all his policy he was strictly pradical,
and in his practice he always regarded, with
holy reverence, the institutions and manners T°
derived from our ancestors. It seemed as w '
if he had been endowed with such tran- Ull
fcendant powers, and informed with such ' CI
extensive knowledge, only to bear the more an
•striking tcrtimony in. these days of rash pre-
fumption,'how much the greatest mind is an
singly inferior to the accumulated efforts of 3 '
innumerable minds ia the long flow of cen- ty.
turL-j. cui
His private conversation had the fame cai
tinfture with his public eloquence. He K CI
sometimes adorned arfd dignified it with phi- lor
lofophy, but he never loft the charm of t ' l£
natural ease. There was no fubjeft so tri-
vi'J which he did not tranfiontly illuminate l '
with the brilliancy of. his imagination. In : j' le
writing, in speaking, in the senate, or !' n ..
round the table, it eafy to trace the
operations of the fame genius. , j f° v
To the Protestant religion, as by law n . ec
eftablilhed, he was attached from sincere
convidtion ; nor was his a barren belief, '
•vithout influence on his moral conduft. 1
He was rigid in the systems of duties'by
which he regulated his pwn aftiens; libe
ral in construing those of all other men;
warm but placable, resenting more the ?
offences committed against hose Nvho were [ ICC
dear to him, than against himfelf; vehe- ? s
Plent and indignant only where he thought ? N
public justice infultjd ; companionate to y
private distress ; lenient even to ifuffering P lOl
giy'lt. As a friend, he was perhaps too . 1
partial to those whom he esteemed ; over- f 10 ."
rating eve/y little merit, overlooking all
their defefts ; indefatigable in serving them ; '
straining in their favor whatever influence
he poffelTed ; and for thei'i fakes more than
for his own, regretting that during so long j
a political life he had so seldom borne any °
share in power, which he considered only as*
zii instrument of more diffufive good. In a
liis domestic relations he was worthy (and
more than worthy he could not be) of the
eminent felicity which for many years he
enjoyed ; an husband of exemplary tender
ness and fidelity ; a father fond to excess ; ,
the most affeftionate of brothers ; the kind- ?. ar .'
eft matter ; and on his part he has been 1
often heard to declare, that in the most no 1.
anxious mqments of his public life, every
care vanished when he entered his own roof.
One who long and intimately knew him, 'P re
to divert his o*n sorrow, has paid this very 1 ,
inadequate tribute to his memory. Nothing
which relates to such a man, can be unin- "P 1
terefting or uninftruftive to the public, to P
•whom he truly belonged. Few indeed
whom the Divine Goodness has largely
gifted, are capable of profiting by the imi
tatlon of his genius and learning ; but aft .!
mankind may grow better by the study of con ''
his virtues. as an
- I fei
~ ~ powt
By this day's Mail. that
* juftic
NEW-YORK, September 5. have
Several French privateers are now on our coast, dodh
and from their late depredation*, it seems that takee
their conduA grows more piratical; which is a the r
proof that they exped a peace, when they will be -l- r
without a PRE 1 EXT for tWir unprincipled and 5,
unlaniftioned piracies. B)
Tht State Papers puMidied in the Minerva of were
Friday last, purporting to be communications be- pirati
tween the French and Spanifb mimfters, relative to J s COI
the defeat of the Spanilh fleet by admiral J«rvis, . 1 ,
vis, have excicited no small curioiity, an 3 we have .
been repeatedly enquired »f as to the probability ol tutlol
their authenticity. On this point we can give no are fe
<atisfa&ory evidence. The note of the French to an
minister is signed Perignon ; and wears marks of pay,',,
authenticity. The insolent dictatorial stile of it is
perfectly in the preferit French charader.—The J. , C
answer i»notfigßeri, and contains some exprcflicns * ervlc
that render its authenticity fufpedcrl. Itishowe- Ic
rcr a very proper answer, as to its spirit and gene- the C
ral tenor; and this circumflatice incinesus to think J thci
it a mere fabrication. Both of'the notes w«r« tan ,1 ,
ken from the London courier,a violent opposition
paper. Comr
-r- in go
COMMUNICATION. I,'eu o
A gentleman who was in France at the time the ever _
ftip Hare's cafe was tried, declares, that when the .•
judge wasabout pronjuncing her condemnation, he J.'^ S C
capt. Haley, who was in court, and told l e "00
him, that although his obje<Sl in bringing her .into to Mi
Dieppe was wholly porfonal, and intended not for call ir
for the benefit of the republic but himfelf alone,
jet, she wou'dhave been reieafed, were it not that
certain provisions of their fliaritime code had been
infringed, which obliged him to condemn her, add Mr
all the property on board, as legal prize to the ro- jjlovec
public—That as to him, it was olivioii« to the
world, that he was an unprincipled fcoundrci and .' o
d?ferved the reward due to cvciy traitor—i'i at no S'VKH
nian who liad a regard for hi* chafafler, or the in *
ttreflsof hi* country, couUl to u:te-
i;>f'i cioti-Jin and that lw felt vtTylin.jipy a t tlietto*
lose fs! <J'fa?poiotmeat of viers,' Henre it
had ! *" at Haley's olijc.S was to get the pnper
? |ty trt ]'.;mfelf : And tlioug u he fays in the letter to
ln «lr. Clafon he meant the fliip ftiould tie liberated,
ien, yet it is reafonafcle to' prel'ume, that had flic been
son ' r °. the next step would be to convert her into - nri'
nfj. ' or w h"h purpose, very ready pcrmlflion
aild 1 C ° U '- d n0 doubt havt bcen obtained by the a ! d of
ln» countrymen from Frenchmen in office, possess
ed of equal virtue with themselves.
BOSTON, September 2.
'F- FRO'M GLOUCESTER, Aug. 31.
ik. "Capt. Girdfer arrived here this after
ry n " on from Bourdeaux, in 42 days paffsg£.
i-ht Ve a £° a frigate bound in
'io- !;i ■ : ' ' x j from Vhicli he was informed,
•e) ' two a T s before spoke a pack
ac_ ft England ; the lieutenant of which
■nt '"farmed them, that a Peace between Great-
j n Britain and trance had been concluded up
on ; that the packet brought the official
jm news ' that it might be depended on."
-J", Iftp* POf let above mentioned had the f,u
, k mi'l on board, the may be authentic ;
ts an dfailing as late as the 23 d jfuly, would give
■ n ' her thirty days before,/poke with.
at • The U ' S " Fn S atf Constitution, it is fajil,
ial W' ll be lauilched a b°»t the 21ft inft. She
is coppered, and in a state of much forward
,ft ntf^
!fd Capt. Tilton, has declined accepting tlie^
of Lieutenancy of the Marines.
>.i, ~
e. MELANCHOLY ■CCIDENTS.
r s, Monday last, as a number of men from
tl, Newton were riding v«ry faft home with
t }, their scythes, after mowing in the marsh, a
rs y° un g man by the name of Wm. Noyes,
as was thrown from his horse ; his scythe fell
n _ under him, and made a wound iiv his left fide
.jj seven inches long, cut one of hi* ribs in two,
re and left a considerable opening his chest.
He was in extreme pain while he survived;
is anc ' within 24 Jie expired. He was
} f a strong, aftive, promising young man, near
-- [ y 2 3 years of age. It is hoped the qir-.
cumltance of his death will be a fufficient
e caution against riding faft with such a dan
e B erous weapon. It would be much fafer
i- *or those who find it convenient to carry
if th«r scythes on horseback, to take them off
{. fromthefneads, and bind them up with them.
e On Saturday last, at Newport, John Gibbs,
n ; the second son of Mr. George Gil/bs, mer.
r in . 1 year of his age, wai fmldenly
e killed by an unexpefted discharge of his
j fowling piece. The contents piercing, his
v n «k, deprived him almost instantly of his
e life. Lamentable instance of the instability
~ t of human cxiftence !
' PROLIFIC. 1
It is a pleasing faft, that Mr. Ivory Hol
. land, of Mohawk-River, (about 54 years '
e old) late of Petersham, and formerly an of
. ficer in the Massachusetts continental artny, J
has married off fourteen daughters, aU
t of which are now living and in good health ; (
} by whom he becomes the Grand Parent of
r more than Forty Children ! Why need we j
j he solicitous to encourage foreign emigra
tion, when we so rapidly increase in popu
j lation at home ?
j | ADMIRALTY CAUSE.
| The following is t\ie decree of judge Bel
fcur of the admiralty court of the island
of Tobago, in the cafe of the schooner
Commerce, captured by the French, ar4 I
afterwards retaken by the English.,
Tobago, 15//J July, 1797. £
" I confidjr the cafe that was stated by
the council for the claimant as very strong, r
and it appears clear from the decision against
the ftiip St. Jago de la A£ega, that the a£k of j.
parliament relative to salvage merely refpefts 1
British fubjefts and tßeir property, bat in !
no refpeft neutrals or aliens. q
The cafe stated from Grotius occasioned
graat doubts in my mind, whether the cap
ture by the French privateer did not make \
the vessel and cargo their property and con- j;
legal prize to the captora, as I did E
not think the court conld have any means
of legally coming at the cause of capture r.
by the French, or the consequences. j (
But it being notorious that war does not 1 1
exist between the republic of France and the r c
United States of America, I am inclined to
c6nfider the capture by the French privateer
as an aft ef piracy or an illegal capture, and &
I fed much gratified by finding it in my
power, under that idea, of giving a deeffion
that appears to me more, conformable to
justice and equity than I could otherwise
have done. By 2 7th Ed. 3 Cap. St the 13th
dodh. 163 it is laid down that if a pirate
takes goods on the sea and even fells them,
the property is not altered no more than if a [ n
thief on the land had ilolen and fold them.
By the lex Mercatoria 184,. when goods
were taken by a pirate and afterwards the
pirate making an attack upon another ship
is conquered and taken by the other, by
the law marine,the admiral may make refti-.
tution of the goods to the owners; if they
are fellow fubjefts of the captors, or belong
to any state in amity with his sovereign, on
paying the costs and charges and making
the captor an equitable consideration for his g Q
service. co|
I consider the capture of theCommerceby
the Cumanaters-aS piratical and illegal, and £ u
I therefore adjudge and determine that there
shall five per cenPwf the value of the schooner
Commerce and her cargo, valuing the fame
in gold and silver, be paid to the captor* in
lieu of all costs, charges and rewards whatr
ever.'—l further order, that in cafe the par
ties do not agfee as to the value of the
schooner and cargo that the fame be referred
to Messrs. King and Machan with liberty to
call in an umpire.
Signed, JOHN BALFOUR, t!o '
' Judge as vice admiralty court." thi
Mr. Piggot, prodtor for the captor, then dy
moved his honor-for leave to appeal, which pre
was granted, and the usual securities to be tha
given by both parties. Co
Certified by, J.NO. LEWIS, fro
Deputy register, the
*x BALTIMORE, September jf,
(e ;: Wc are infprmed- tliat a second robbery
rto was attempted y»fterday about 12 o'clock,
ted, on a gentlemaa who was o» his way to
cen George-town from this city. Tt seems he
5"! ovcrt .°ok and; palled a man a small distance
iof I t ' le other fide of the feat of Mrs. Corroll,
;iT- about two miles out of town ; this man,
j after parting with him, took a different
path through the woods, and met him about
; half a mile further 01), when riding up to
' the gentleman, he made a catch at the bri
. j die, but milling his hold, he endeavoured
C r_ t0 snatch his watch frotn his pocket, but
*e. a ""° failing in that attempt (the horse being
m- ve T rauc b feared, and running off Avith
great speed) he laid hold on the gentleman's
faddk-bags, but from the fwiftnefs of the
c "|, horse, the villain was unable to effeft his
it - PurPofc
ip. There was Another man some diilar.ee
ial behind, who appeared t6be an accomplice.
1 h' s villain's dress, from the description
fa- we have bad of it, corresponds very nearly
. . with the one described on a former occa
ve fion T viz. a striped Gi.jgbam coat', with
overalls, buttoned down the ancles, appears
to be between 25 and 30 years of age
i j ) The late hour at wjirch we received this ac
he c °urit, prevented us from stating them more
j_ iriinutely.
The (Rip Juliana, captain Hay ward,
which was taken into lin vrc-d e-Gnic c and
there cleared, was, contrary to the expec
tation of every body, condemned in the
high court of appeal at Rouen. The" coun
sel on beh-lf ot the owners, have appealed
to the tribunal of Paris.
Eh
a NORFOLK, August 31.
s ' We sincerely regret our want'of time
prevents us, at present, laying before the
public / nublanc'i fbeech in the French conn
j' r,: 'i which, we find, was tolerably severe
• again ft Commodore Bjrnct, for mal-prac
' t!c & in conjunftion with the lads in St.
13 Domingo.
Died, on Thursday last at Petersburg, in
r * the bloom of youth, Mife Ann Seldon, of i
' this towu. As a daughter or relative, flw
was unremitting in tendefnefs, duty and aP
r feftion : as a friend, sincere, uniform and
> ardent ;as a companion, affable, unassuming
and inftru&ive ; as a scholar, she was a ftran-
J* ger to pendantry, though a favorite to ici
'' ence.—ln a Jvord, the whole conduct and
• deportment of this amiable young lady,
v through a (hort btlt well spent life, secured
to her the love of most, and the admiration
s of all.
s In every aft refulgent virtue glow'd ;
1 In manners, grae'd with each endearing art;
In ev'ry fpeech'perfuafive wisdom flow'd,
Charm'd ev'ry ear, and gain'd on ev'ry heart.
Let comfort, then, her former life survey:
3 Nature but call'd her to the genial doom ;
Her recolleiied worth endears the lay,
, And virtuous sorrow dignifies her tomb.
1 Let Rrjtgnaiioti gently Hope the way—
; Comfort and Hope afford her friends, relief,
Drive the-wetcryftal from their eyes away,
' -And clofc the bleeding artery tf grief.
Xfte (gazette,
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY UVUNING, Su>tf*«R 7.
CI-TY HOSPITAL REPORT, -
From 6th to 7th September, in tl\e Morning
Admitted, since last VepOrf,
Adam G.jl!tftger, HornV Tavern, Front,
near Callhvt-hill street. '
James Reynolds, }ohn Lamertts, Oak street,
Southwark.
' Maty Me. Fai'land, 50, Race Street.
, Mary Queen, 13 Chefnut street.
! Moses Steward, 7$ Almond street.
Catharine Gilliland, John M'Lo'ighliti's,
4th street, 2d door above Shippen street. •
Discharged fince'laft report.
Mary Moore, admitted 29th olt.
Barbara (a negro) 3<Sth do. (
Elizabeth Fulltnan', 3d irfft. j
Died since last report. t
Jam«« Mechlin, admitted 4th' inft.
John Toy, do. ift do. t
Thos. Bute, do. sth do. ]
John Brown, do. sth do. f
""""
Remaining last Rjport :• ' ,3j
Admitted, 6 v
Discharged 3
Died 4 7
R—i, fc Holpital, 34 '
Interred in City Hospital burying ground
since last 1 report :
From the city and suburbs 3
From the city hospital 4
Total 7
Stephen Girard,
(Signed) Caleb Lownej, o
John Connelly. g
w
Doftor Edward Stevens (No. 150, g
South Second-ftrett) is appointed assistant d
consulting phvfiaJan. la
d
Burials-for 34 blurt ending yefirrJay nt neon, hi
' 'St. Peter's .I. Child 1}
St. Parti's . I Adult fe
First Brefbyterian 1 vi
Triftity rj ft »; r 1 V
City Hospital 3 i d<
Potter's Field 1 tl
Total .5 4 ni
'ltis a fouree 0} much individual confola- rii
tio'n, (durifig'the present alarming state of hi
this city) that-many persons who have alrea- m
dy deserted it, and have left cotifidtrable p(
property behind, have availed therqfelves of at
lhat ufeful institution, the Insurance in
Company of North tofetfure it it!
from the risque o/Jirt, which, considering zr
the conflagrations the United S.tates, have cs
lately experienced, is conceived to be much
ry more than adequate to the amount of the pre
k, mium required.
to
fie At a Town-Council specially holden in and for
ce the town of Providence, on Friday, Septem
-11, her I, 1797. .
n, The public are assured, that since the
nt information communicated on Wednesday
nt last, it appears that one person only has de
to ceased of the Yellow Ferer, and that ljut two
'i- persons arc now confined with that disorder.
?d By Order,
it • George Tillinghast, C. Clk.
'g _
:h The Commissioners appointed by tlie
's Governor, to carry into e'ffe& the law for
le alleviating the distress of the Cifc'zens of Phi
iis ladelphia, and the suburbs thereof; inform
their th?t they have attend
:e ed to their appointment, and now invite
e. tlt,?m to recommend in writing, signed by
>n one or more reputable inhabitant, such of
'y 'I I6 indigent as may come to their know
n- ledge, who will be aflifted as they may stand
h in need, by applying at the Stste-Houfe,
rs from 3 to 5 o'clock, on the 6th inft. and
- every second, fourth and sixth days of ths
c- Week, called Monday, Wednesday, and
re Friday, at the fame hours, while necessary ;
and those who want employ, may likewise
J, apply as above, or to either of the commif
d fioners at their dwellings.
Commissioners for the city.
Ie Robert Wharton, S. Third-street, No. 135.
1- Georg-e'Krcbs, N. Fift'n-ftreet, No. 17.
d John James, ditto No. 18^
Tfrael Israel, corner of ChefnutTSc Third St.
Thomps Savery, N. Fifth-ftreet, No. 20.
Edward Garrigues, Cherry-street, No. 39.
e 1 Commissioners for the Northern Liberties.
e Samuel Wheeler, Vine-street, No. 99.
1- John Wagner, Noble-street.
e George Ingjis, New Market-street.
- Commissioners foi- Southwark.
Samuel Church, corner Soutff 8? St.
William Lennard, South Second-street.
n Robert M'Mullen, Swanfon-ftreet.
f Philadelphia, September 5, I 797.
tf
(circular.)
j general orders.
Philadelphia, Augujt 29, 17/)'7.
IN conformity to »he Aft of Congress of
1 June 24th, 1797, containing a requisition
, f° ror g an izing,armingandequipping,lo,696
i of the militia of this state (officers included)
! and in obedience to the commands of the
Governor relative thereto, you are hereby
ordered to hold in readiness to - march at a
; moment's warning, eight hundred andfeven
, militia, from your brigade and to make
. me returns ofyour progress therein as speedi
ly as poflible.
By order of the Commander in Chief,
JOS. HARMAR, Adj. Gen.
To Lbwis Nichola,
Brigade Infpeaor for the Ci- t
- ty of Philadelphia. J
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Port of Philadelphia.
t ■ ~ ■»
c . ARRIyiD. DAYS.
ohip I hoenix, Lowell, Isle of Frasce 120
CLEARED.
Sch. Betsey Hollon, Medlin,
Brig Delaware, Dunphy, fromCspe Fran
cois is below, arid a brig named the Eliza.
Ship American, Shallcrofs, captured by
tfcf French on her passage home from St.
Ivitts, was retaken on the 29th, in fight of
Cape Francois by the Briti/h Frigate Profs
lite, who saw her fafe into the Mcle.
llie fch. Alciope, Rice, hence to Go
naives, and the brig Rambler from Jei;emie
to this port, are taken and sent into Cape
Francois.
A French privateer sloop of 12 guns, has
arrived at New Castle. She is a Ijcrmudian
built vessel, and has sprung her mast.
Yesterday arrived here the ship PhaEnix,
capt. in 120 days from the Isle of
France. She failed 011 the 6th of May ; left
there the ship Hope, Callahan, of Norfolk,'
■ for Hamburgh : the (hip Canton, Collin,
of Charleston, for Boston, to fail in June,
Ketch John, Darby, bound to the eastward
for a market. August 27th, lat. 33, long.
71, spoke the ship Ann, Black, out five
days from Alexandria, to Rotterdam, all.
well.
The brig Eliza, mentioned above to be '
in the river, is captain Sherer, from Char
leston.
The ship Inclination, Roster, landed her |
passengers in England early in July.
. a
New Tori, September 4thi {
arrived. .Days !
Ship RifTng Sun, , Londonderry
Brig A.pollo, Robinson, Savannah 7
CONSTANTINOPLE,- M?y ic.
It now a long time since the Janissaries
of this capital teftified their discontent at the n
great number of foreign officers and soldiers h
who were charged by the government to k
give them lessons in tactics; and people of o
discernment hsve expected to fie, fopner or tl
later, what has in faft taken place, the fame tl
discontent fliew itfelf among the guards of f<
his. highness. The Janissaries. have formal
ly rtatiefttdy that the Grand Seignior fliould
fend away, from the capital s, Ottoman pro- ri;
vinces all foreign troops without exception, k]
We are assured that the council of state has
determined in favour of the petition j so that
the departure of the French volunteer com
pany of artillery, and most of the foreign
officers, is regarded at certain.
The news of the figningof the prelimina-
ries of peace betweentheEmperorandFrance
has caused a uniyerfal joy here, efpeeially a
mong the merchants., The Porte itfelf ap- J
pears much fatisfied in feeing a war terrain- at
ated, wbich on many accouats caiifed great i t0
inquietudes. It has in consequence sent to 'V
its at Vienna, .Berlin, London | r
znd Paris', new inftruftions analogous to the i
tsifting circumftanges.
ch j Much is said of the deposing of the Hof
re- podar y Moldavia, for having granted to
the fugitive A old 3 a proteftion which might
commit the Porte with its neighbours. The
or moil rigorotis orders have moreover been
m- lent to JafTy, to cause those ftrange'rs to
quit the Otterman territory immediately.
, j ... PETERSBURG, June 27.
le- ice admirals Muffin Pufchkin and De
vo h.'i are advanced to the ranks of admirals.
'' r™ • Tl,rke y we h «r of new troubles,
in -Sophia there has lately been a military
consultation at which 16 Pachas were pre
ie
f STOCKHOLM, June 30.
11- Prince Kufpoly who arrived here yeflcr
-111 <ay rom Prter/burg, will be introduced to
d- his iriaiefty this day by the Ruffian ambafTa.
te dor niron Budberg. There will be a mil
>y itary review on the occasion.
Df
v ~ HAGUE, June 19.
id Letters from Amfttrdam inform us, that
e, j commerce there is in a state without any e*-
id ample, a great many commercial cities of
U the north, and particularly Hamburgh,
,d have ordered from the India company, fpi
■ ; cesto the amount of many millions; and
fe the demands have not been able to be fatisfi
f- eel, those articles being exhausted for a
time, jiid none being received from India
: hnce Ceylon and the Moluccas have been la
)• tlle power of the English.
MADRID, June 20.
t. There have been some diflurbances be
j tween the English sailors and the people of
Lisbon. The people were much akrmef,
: and several were killed: but nothing fur
ther is heard of the matter.
WASHINGTON LOTTERY, N,. U ~
List of Prizes and Blanks.
t. 120 th d-iy's Drawing—Aug 1 . 26.
No. hols. No. Dots. No. Dols. No. Vols.
151 10 14120 26142 io 39483
1402 io 407 to ij 4 10 ' 559
"" 537 827 717 i 0
773 79S 10 999 93 j
979 *.J»J9 47190 40647
3229 la 101 i 99 Io 93 g
721 . 7*7 494 50 4'-»54 10
4146 10 , 744 JO6 262 10
)f 673 16119 10 524 490 10
5991 434 803 680 10
f illa 953 717
° *33 1748 i 38349 42623
) "J* 10 615 10 972 09S
ie ' "89 9°5 10 989 3 6 3
y 9°5 18111 20
; 971 »o 711 634 851
7094 19009 10 30281 4-J747
*33, 404 832 74 8
534 10 486 31,85 ao 864 IQ
I- ®421 iooia 612 4417 c
j6o 10 694 646 7-tt
' *789 *1469 769 10 792
914 10 471 ie 32144 999
965 Jo 821 33137 45566 no
9723 22413 10 429 675
10507 10 23386 758 46138
676, 10 390 10 35001 704
588 J® 6 3" 10 47354 10
*®B 763 36146 479 1®
797 is 963 927 »o
347 *4497 37343 10 973
*°{ <>ss 375 10 48-90
516 663 IO 49164
i. IJri 4 »o 6:3 38185 670
3 586 10 743 374 985 l 9
'3»75 93» 84 3 10
'49 15352 955
788 686 39105 »
121 ft day's Aug. 28.
r 517 12C32 20594 33395 10
664 IO 047 20 910 346
p icoa IC fj3so 922 403
*53 379 22030 484
8 ? r 7°* 33774 io 35404 25
3652 10 902 10 »4°i4 887 ,
909 10 14*224 181 10 36594 10
3113 498 lo 25250 37*810
4357 10 819 10 393 38498 10
5-83 15135 *0 26126 10 614 ie,
6433 67* 277 io 39149
7596 16134 29597 10 40712
691 163 71a 769
947 'o 295 10 30512 10 4 TEB2
8532 10 333 j 0 4237 cjo
875 740 10 768 25 388
. 9593 17574 873 43171
10659 701 i c 3 1 4 80 1D j 9j
805 18212 k 568 1044*27 10
11010 10 950 10 604 718 JO
188 19149 659 47118 :o
218 ( 30154 19 79*7 600 10
o l ' 353 3C460 io 912
12009 10 379 650 40733 ia
lirror in the 40th day-~lnftead of 15429 2?
dols.—read 15459 35 dots.
R A% -AWAY,
OT\ the ifl. In It. from the Subfcriher, an
apprentice lad; naiped Keridal Merrill,
about twenty years of age, by trade a Tailor,
and had about fix months to serve. Any per
son who will apprehend said run away, so that
he may he returned to the Subscriber, wilt
receive a handsome reward and reasonable
charges.
EDWARD GRAHAM.
. Sqn- 7. _ _ eo. *3t.
Post Office, September sth, 17Q7.~""
CO" The Port Office will be removed to»
morrow at 3 o'clock, P. M. to Mr. Dun
lap's Coach liotife, 12 th street, bet ween Mar
ket and Chefnut street, where merchants and
others will pltafe to fend for their letters, as
the letter carriers during the continuance of
the present prevailing ficknefs'will not be
sent out.
The Health-Officq/
IS removed to the City-Hal], and ii kept open
and day, where persons having bufinrf, ma » /
r-i ply. \Vm. ALLEN, Health-Officer.
* dtf
Nor Fcl
TrtE Offices of the Department of War are for
,tJa»refent removed near to the Fails q( the Scuvl
4k!, on the Ridge Roadw
; 4.
~
And immediate pojfejfton given,
A Convenient weli Jinilhed Brick '! enemeht,
#witha cook houf: and other out houfef,fit u l
attd in a pleasant part of the borough of Wilming
ton, in the of Delaware——l he lot of ground
has forty feet front on Well-Oreet, and extendi
through the square to Pafltir.-ttreet, on which *
ereited a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANJE.
V iinticgtoa K Aug. 30. 'FIVE DOLLARS REWARD, j
"l"\ AN awny from the subScriber, an indented J (
?V Strvknt Girl, named Nancy .4 a- „
tout twenty years of age, fiiort, thick Set person,
with fliort black hair ; had omwhen (he wrtit away,
titlark calico gown, an old black fllk cloak, and a
hl*ck fur h?t. WKocvrr will ftcure laid girl, and '■
!vc irilormation thereof to tke fubicriber, No. a,
GretnV' f allry, or to the office of this Gazette, t
{hail receive the above reward. <
All prions are forbid harboring f.ml girl, as i
they will.be dealt -with as the law direfls
MARY ANDERSON,
N. B. ?aid Girl is from Ireland, and has been i*
tins vountrv but a Aort time ; (he wasfent to th»
work-houi'e for mifconduift, where <he was taken
lick and removed to th« city-hofpitil, from which
place iwe made her efcspc.
AvyyP 30. eon
io be l'old at Public Vendue,
To the hfgheft bidder, at the house ®f Mr.
William" Evans, the Sign of the Indian
CKieCUj m the city of Baltimore, on the 45th
day of Oilober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
About levin thousand acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between UeifterVtown and Weftminftcr,
commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike toad runs through a confutable part ot
these lands) the tra& begins about 1.7 miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
of laid Keiller's-town, and extends to the dis
tance of about twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and li«s on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to fodr miles thereon. Will
lie fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow! and wood Iftnd on eat* trail,
Some of. them highly improved, with txcelleut
buldisgs and fine grrfs.
Ai SO
A tra& of ( feven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of f
Bladerfhurg, elleemed very good for Grass.
R, hard Ponfonby,of Bladenlburgh, will Ihew
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
ALSO,
A tra& of land of about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles ,
and a half oi the President's honfe in the Fede- ,
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpefl, fro.r. which may be fcen the
city of \\ affiihgton, Bladenlburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard PouSon
by, of Bladenfburg, will also flaew this land.
' A liberal credit will be given for the greatest
part of the purchase money. ihe terms will
be made known on the day of Tale.
M.-.v 8
Juftß eceived,
From Batavia (viaProvidetie.)
a few Boxtsof Spices, confiding of
Nurroegs, Cloves and Mace
for l'ale by '
KILLINGS cs* FRANCIS,
PennHreet.
way 30
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING busied for fume time part in prepara
tions for removing into his j>r«!'ent house, has
been under theneceflity of podponinguntil this day
informing the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro'l
the United States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for lale, on
terms that he trulls will tntitlehim to the like pr«-
ffcence he has experienced for fcveral years pad.
Catalogues, combining the mod taricd collec
tion ever imported i/ito this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
June ay. 6w
City Comnrijfiontrs' Office^
June tl, 1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the felefl
and common councils, pal Ted the aid day of
May lad, appointing the city commiflioncri,
and prescribing their duties, feijlion <)th,
NOTICE 18 HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diftri<sU,
each to be under the fuperintendance of one ®f
the city commiflioners, w hois to be individually
relponfible for the-cleanlirefs of the fame, and
are as follow.
Driftri6l No. I. From the South fide of Ce
dar-ftrret, to the north fide of Spruce-street, un
der the Superintendence of Nathan Boys.
2. From the north fide of Spruee-ftreeJ, to
the north fide of Walnut-street, under the Super
intendence of' Hugh Roberts.
3. From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide of High-street, under the
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the-north fide of High-street, to the
north fide of Mulberry llreet, under the fuper
intendenceef William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberry-street to
the north fide of Vine-street, under the Super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
Thecleaningof High-street to be in common.
£s■ A flatcd meeting of the city comraiflion
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday «vening at 5 o'clock.
July 14. eolm
Stands for Draymen, &c\
In purfuanee of an Ordinance from thcSeleft and
Common Councils,bearing date the 2id day of
April, 1797. providing for the appointment of
City Commijfiontri, <Je. Seti. the 1 stb.
r \ ''HE following places are fixed upon by the
JL Said City Commissioners for Stands for
Draymen and their Horses.
In eaftward of Front-ftretft, on
both fides.
Saflafras, High,CheSnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eastward of Front-street, on the no.-th Side only.
Mulberry-llreet, South fide Sr»m Front to
Third-street.
Front-ftrest, call Side from Vine-rtreet to
Elfrith's alley.
Front-street, from opposite to Black HorSe al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east Dde.
Water-street, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Moore's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce Jar-ltreet, weft
fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, eafl of Front-street.
' "Spruce, Pine and South llreets, east ofFrowt
flreet, South I'de.
Doek-ftreet, between Walnut-street and the
Sag ftonc croflings, east fide, opposite George
Orkley's.
SeconH-ftreet, between SiuTifras and Vint
fireet 1, well Side.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry llreets.
Saffafras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-llreet,
east fidt-
No drav or horse to stand wiihin ten feet of
™STAND* FOR HACKNEY COACHES.
Piiwftreet, nortli fide from Fourth to Frith
between Chefnut and Walnut
ftrcets* weft.
Branch-llreet, north Qdej between Third and
Fourth llreets.
July 14. ■
A Literary. Treat.
jiift piibl'ijhcd y handsomely printed on writing
price I dollar,
A new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, entitled
'"pHE FORESTERS, an American Tale ; being
1. a fcqucl to the hillory of John Bull, the Clo
thier—ln afcries of Utters to a friend, with the ad- 5
(lition of twor letters, alluding to recent political
tranfa<£V.ions in America.
Th*.following extra#, from the Clavis
ihtws the principal characters tha: introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of England
His Mcither, theChurchof knglind
His Wife, the Parliament
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom of France
HjtMiftreft, the Old Conflitution
His new Wife, the N;uional Rcprefentation
Lord Strft, the Kingdom of Spain
jMichoJas Frog, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic 1
The Ferefters, the United 'States of Ameri<a
Robert Lumber, N*.'w-Hainp(kire I
John Codline, Maflachufetts i
Humphrey Plowihaie, Connecticut
Roger Carrier, Rhode Island $
l>eter Bull Frog, New-York
Julius Cafar, New-Jersey
William Broadbrim, Ponnfylvania t
Cailimar, Delaware tl
Walter Pipewood, Virginia b
His Grandson, George Walbington
Peter Pitch, North Carolina n
Charles Indigo, Soutk Carolina h
George Trusty, Geergia e
Ethan Greenwood, V ermont
Hunttr Longknife, Kentuclsy c
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves \
Rats, Speculators 1
Mother Carey's Chickens, Ja«ol>ins f
This papular and entertaining satirical hifto- t
ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel- f
knap. It has a great lhare of originality and a-
bownds with genuine humour. It is continued t
down to the present tinae, and charaAerifes those ]
late political tranfa&ions which have caused so }
much uweafinefs in America. i
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, N®. 16, t
South Second Stiect, and No. 50, Marke* ftjeet. [
June 26. §
LAW BOOKS, ;
Latest London and Dublin Edition!.
H. & P. RICE, Bookfelleri,
Ne. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market llreet,
HAVE just received by the lite arrivals Irom
London and Dublin, their Spring importa
tion, confiding of a variety of the latefk and moll
approved l aw Books, which,added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the most eitenfive colleftion ev
er offered for Sa'e in this country. They thei efore
beg leave to that from the nature of their
connedicnsin Dublin, they are enabled t» Sclllrilh
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowed prices. The following are among the laud
publications.
VeSey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1 vols.
Peake's Cases at Nili Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwickj ; Floyer's Probers
Practice in the Ecclesiastical Courts; Barton's
Trsatife on a 3uit in Equity Tidd's Practice of
the Court of King's Bench in Perfena] A&ions, x
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; CruiSe
on Ufea ; modern Reports, 11 vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rice cxpeft t® receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and Eall's Reports, the id part of -Oil
' bert'sl.aw of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 16.
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
Ig now in the preSs, and will be published,
with all convenient expedition, by ZtCHA
MAH Poulson, jun. No. go, CheSnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where Subscriptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed propoSals, until the
work is ready for the fubferibers.
July 18. liwtf
' Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Chefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly aliened, very low on
Ihort credit.
March 6. §
Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
, South Fifth-ftrnt.
August ». w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijburgh Carlijle,
Shippenjburgand Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requested to take notice, that
the partnership which has f.r Some time sub
sided between Mathias Slough of Lancader, and
William (Jeer, is now dissolved : bat, not as M.
Slough inSinmates to the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the Sub
jedl from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December lad. a recital of which is not now deem
ed neceliary. Any gentleman who wilhes to be
[ more circumdantially informed of the merits of
C this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
P the perusal .f M. Slough's letter, and then tan be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfe&ly jndifiahle in attaching him
: Self to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
' Now from tb« liberal and generous Support the
public were pleased to confer on the fird effort in
, this business, William Geer, in conjunftion with
• Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
> to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
) lie can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
- with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the paflage fafe and commodious, inform
f those wno vvilb to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
j George Weed's, the Sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancader, Harrilburg,
Carlisle and Jjhippenlburg. The fare as hitherto
edablilhed.
For the further accommodation ol the public,
* a Stage will dart every Wednesday from the house
L of Samuel Elder, in Hairilbdrg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
• and return irom thence and arrive at Ha-rilburg
every Saturday, so that passengers deftined'for
* Lancader or Philadelphia, may proceed om Mcn
. a,i " WILLIAM GEER.
Lancader, Jan. 17, r?97-
' N. B. Thii LiriC of Stages Harts from the
heufe of Wiliiain Fcrr®c," in Lancallcr, on every
Tucfday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
-1 seeding to the weStwarcf; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Ijlder in Harrilburg every Wodnef
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenlburg, and returns
( Irom thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily a> in its (our from fhiladel
phia.
1
City of Wafliington.
- SCHEME
Of the Lottery, N T o. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwelling-lioufe io,ooodoHars,
Se caih 30,000, ire 50,000
1 ditv ij.ooo & caflt 25,00© 40,009
1 ditto 15 jOOo si '.afn 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 ft ca'Ti 10,000 ao,ooo
1 ditto 5,000 £< ca!h 5,000 10,000
x ditto 5,000 cafti 5,000 10,000
1 cash prize of 1-0,006
1 do. 5,000 are • xo,ooo
io do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
.io do. 500 - * 10.000
00 do 100 - • 10,000
do. 50 - - to,ooo
400 do. 15 - 10,000
1,000 do. jc - 30,000
*5,009 do. is - i5»,ooo
9 Prizes.
*6l Blanks. ,
50,000 Tickets, at Eight iJollan, 400,000
N. 3. Ti: favour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets,'he prize of 40,000 dollars will be
thp l ast drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but onz :
And approved notes, securing payment in cither
monsy cr prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received foi any number not less than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be err died in the City of
Washington—Two beautiful defiggs are already
leleited for the entire Irontt on two of thepublk
squares; from these drawings it ispropofed to erc&L
twocantreand 'ourcerner buildings, as foonaspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to cenvty them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A r.ett deiu&ion of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necelfary expenses of print
ing, &e. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Univerlily, to
he erefled within the city of Waftnngton.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the paymaot of the
Briies, are held by the President aud two DireA
ors oi the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tieketsnaay br-had at the Bank ot Colum
bia ; of James Well & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Oilman, 3ofton : of John H«pkin», Richmond ;
and of Ricfcard Wells, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
Frim die Otfege Herald.
CAUTION.
WHEREAS a combination of men in thu
county have undertaken to enrich th«m
felvcs.by fabricating titles tofundrj valuable trails
of land, the property of' gentlemen living in New
York, Philadelphia, London and Paris, for which
traAs of ltnd Urge fumsof money have been paid
to those fraudulent men, by innocent purchasers
It is therefore just that public information should
be. given, to the end, that the injured may seek re
dress while the men have property, and are to be
found. Those who have been difcovsred aire Tru
m3n Harrifon,. Joseph Witcomb, said now to rc
fidc in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and
several otheri who go upder fiilitious names. It is
supposed that the lands offered fcr sal« on those fa
bricated titles, are at lead* worth fifty thousand
dollars. Such as we have adtual knowledge of are
as follows : Lots No. II and la, Otfega patent,
thousand acres each, the arflual property of William
Dellwjn, now of London ; lots No. 58 and 64,
fame patent, thousand acres each, the property of
Mr. Chaumont, now of Paris, and James Averill
and others, ot this State. There is some grounds
to suppose that the lands of Richard Wells and
Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their
management. —The Printers will do well to give
this a place in their papers, as well to caution the
public against purchasing those lands, as also to de
prive those men in future from imposing on indivi
dufifs, which their education and address have en
abled them t«do heretofore. Witcomb has been
a IhopkeepeV of some note in this eountry.
The following affidavits will fct in a clear point
of view the wickedness of those men, which when
the public have pernfed, Will indues them to ex
tufe the interference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July aßth, 1797.
1 Thomas Kelly, of the County of Otfego, hav
ing been led into an error, by John Witcomb and
Truman Harrifon, of the fame County, to sign a
deed to them, for lot NOl 58, Otfego patent, whieh
was the property of William T. Franklin now Mr.
Chamont's aud others ; and further the said Joseph
and Truman did persuade me to do this against my
inclination, which was made out on the icth day
of November, 1793, or f«t back two years so as
to bring it to that time ; and further the naim ps
Pardon Starks to that deed was a fiAitious namo,
there being no such perlon there. To this I make
voluntary oath. THOMAS KELLY.
19th July, 1797.
On the :9th July, 1797, came personally before
'me, Thomas Kelly, the fuhferibcr to the above af
-1 fidavit, and made solemn oath that it contains noth
- ing but thr truth.
1 FLIHU PHINNF.Y, Justice of the Peace.
On the tßthjuly, *797, came before me Jacob
; Kibby„a person by me well k»own and worthy of
- good credit, who on his solemn oath did fay, that
1 two,of the parties obovementioned ap
plication to him this doponent, some time in the
- winter of 1796.r0 make them a deed for two tho«-
f sand acres of land in the Otego patent, and pro-
E mifed this deponent a fharc of the profits, on the
- sale of said lands, for his so doing ; and th.it they
madeapplicationfcVeral times for the fame purpoie,
which fervtcas this deponent as often refufed, de
c claring to them that he had no right to lands, and
- could do no such thing ; which daring attempt on
this deponent's integrity he had related anong his
" friends several times, previous to making this affi
-1 davit. JACOB KIBBEY.
1 Sworn before mc,
1 ELIHU PHINNEY, Justice of the Peace.
- Aug. 3■ lawyw.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
i Tj 1 LOPED from the service of the fubferiber,
3 X_i on the 19th instant, a negro man by the
1 name of DICK, about t wen w-five years of age,
c and five feet nine or ten inches high ; by trade
t a carpenter, anil is a very .lively brisk work
, man. His countenance \s very gootl —When
1 spoken to, he converses with ease and confi
> dence, and is pretty sagacious. I purchased
0 the said fellow of Mr.Dubney Minor, in whose
name he has been advertised in the Richmond
newspapers. During his last runaway trip (lail
c fummer-J he was employed a considerable length
of time, by some perfpn near Dumfries, from
' which circumifante, f conjeflure, he lias taken
J another nothern route 1 forewarm allperfons
from giving him employment, of any kind
whatever, and maftersof veflels and others, from
tarrying him out of this slate. The above re
ward will be given if he is taken within forty
miles of this city ; and an additional sum, in
. proportion to the diitance he may be brought,
_ or the trouble ar.dexpencc the apprehender may
r beat, in bringing him to this place.
' b 6 AUG; DAVIS.
N. B. His apparclwas of the usual negro kind,
8 but he had more doaths than is customary for
: them to polTefs.
A,D.
Riehmnd, June l '9j'
,
Will be Landed,
From o& board the (hip Atflive, Capt. Bc.Ani,from
Hamburgh,
20 bales white Ruflia clean Hemp I
2 calks Clover Seed .
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffcr,
North Fifth street, Ko. 34. t
Tunc 26. £ 3
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE <
No. 64 south Second Preet. 1
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which '
commenced drawing the May, TOR *
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor- <
tion ns the driwing advances, particularly on ac- <
count of the five firll drawn tickets, prizes of 1
four thousand dollars each, on the last day of <
drawing. 1
Cliecli Bcdks kept for examination and register- <
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City oI VVafliington, No. ,
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Ajfo j uickets for l'ale in the Schuylkill bridge and t
Perk omen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing ?n the course of the fttoimer.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lauds, &c- &c. tranfa&ed with the
utmost a:tention.
June 2 tu&f ;
Erfkine's View of the War. j
JUST PUBLISHED, i
By ROBERT CAMPBELL Co.
, No. 40 South Second ftrect,
[Price 31 Cents]'
A Vieiv of the Caufet and Consequen
ces of the present War •with Frartce.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May 15 J
STATE TRIADS.'
Sold by W. Youns, Bookseller, No. J*, South Sc
colld-flrect,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acquii>
al of FraneisHopkinfcD, Judge of tl*e Court of
Admirtdty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln on« large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollar*.
W. Young has for sale, a general affortmentof
Book?. AJfo, Stationary, retail and by the pack
age, well aflorted, and entitled to the dxif back if
axperted. JVty 7-— *
rHK SUBSCRIBE R having been appointed by
the Envoy Extraordinary and Miuiiler Plani
potesit'ary of his Britannic Majefly, General .Agent
toraflifting Brivilh creditors, and luch particular a
gents as th«v may fpeciilly authorise, in prosecuting
their daims before the eammiftioners for carrying i*-
lo effeft the sixth article of the Treaty of Amity, Co7U
mcrce and Navigation betwt4n his Britannic kajejly and
the United States of America, htreby #iv«s notice that
he has opened his office at his houjc the south east
corner of Chefnut and fifth ftracti, Philadelphia,
where he Is ready to receive all claims or inliruftions
for claims with the vouehtrs aud documents thereof,
for the purpose of bringing forward the fame agrec~
ably so the rules and orders whicbthe board may
think proper to prefenbe*
And as it will be foe the interest of all €o*««riied,
that the fcveral claims be so itattd, and support
ed, as to prevent the delay which would arise from
the ncceflity of obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials,from .periods reGdisg at a diitance,
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the
direction chiefly of those, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the prosecution of
thrir claims to his charge and management) that all
such claims pught in particular to fci forth—
tft. The proper defcripiion and fitnation of the
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, refpe&-
ively.
ad. The date andnature of the original contrast or
debt.
3d. When, .in what meaner, and to what extent,
the creditor or elaimant was prevented or impeded,
by the provi&on, operation or defetfc of law, the
decifionsand practice of courts, or restraint of exe
cution, from recovering payment of the debt in
qucft'ion.
4th. Tbelofsand damige incurred or sustained,
in consequence of such impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen from the infolveney, change ot
or death o< ths debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from lapse of time, or othercaufes impairing
the value and feeurityof the debt, which would not
have so operated ii such impediments had notexiflcd.
And sth. The particular grounds sod reasons on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treaty, that " by the ordinary course of judicial pro
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and actually
have and receive suM and adequate eompenfation" for
the losses and damages so fuftaiucd.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to fug
ged that the fcveral claims ought to be accompanied
and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly attellcd, both as to the exiftencs
of the debts claimed, and such other circumfUnccs
as may be within ihcir own knowledge refpeftively.
And wherever the claimants in Rating the nature of
their evidence (whiohmuftin every inftanee be the
beftot which the cafe is capable) have occafiou, to
refer te the ttfkimony of witneftes, it will be proper
to apprifathe general agent of the names and places
of rcftdence of fech witnefiei and the fa£hto be eila
blilhed by their teftlroony.
W/n, Moore Smith.
Philadelphia June Bih, 1797- d
For Sale,
That iv ell known place, tailed
F S R R Y,
ON Neihaminy creak, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, sn the New. York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
pretnifcs are a large two ft«ry stone house occu
pied at atvern, and a good one story ftonc kit
chen, a large frame stable with agoodthrelhing
[ floor, and iome out buildings—alio a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a molt elegant fora gentle
mji't feat, commanding a view of the Ne(ham
. iny to its jundlioo wiih the Delaware, amd thence
across to the Jersey (hore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Srtb&riber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
y.-V 14- jtawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
■ Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much plcaf
ureand rsfpeft, returns her o.nce*e fc
' knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
1 (he has received during four years reQdence in
Philadelphia ; and azures her friends and the
' public, so far from "intending to decline her
: Ichool, she has made a fupenor arrangement for
' the more convenient accommodation of her
' scholars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite
1 education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
1 Groombridge and mailers excelling in their
' refpe£live profeffions.
' Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
' June sth, 1797- Jimfrf
1 The situation is perf?flly healthy i and made
more agreeable by an exter.ftvc garden and lot
of grrund adjoining the
Jujl Pub!i(hcd,
' And to be had of Messrs. Dotfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfe-iers in the
city,price one dollar, twinty-f. , : rt cents,in lioards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJ AMIN SMfTH BARTON, m. d.
Juiiq »e. *6t
No. 183.'
BiJlriS of Pennfybvanla, to wit :
1. s. |£ E IT REMEMBERED, that on the
-t> fifteenth thy of June, in the twenty
firft year of the Independence of the United
States of America, Woodhousf, of
the said diftridl, hath depolitfj in thia office the
title of a book, the right whereof he claims as
author, in the words following, to wit r—
" The Young Chemist's Pocket Companion,
" beinf a Defcripti< n of a Port ible Labaratory,
" containing a Philofophica! apparatus, and a
" great number of Chemical Apents, by which
" any. person may perform an endless variety of
M amusing and intruding Experiments, design
" ed for the use c>§ ladies and -gentlemen, and
" intended to promote the cultivation of the
" Science of Chemistry in the United States of
" HyjAMKS Woodhouse, M.t).
" ProfelTor of Chemiflry, in the University of
" Pennsylvania, President of tlie Chemical So
" ciety of Philadelphia, &c.
" At present every thing that is not
" nated Chemistry, is but a small part of a fyf.
" tem of natural knowledge.
Prie/lly on dir."
In conformity to tlie a£l of the Cotigrefs of the
United States, intituled, " An ad for the encour
agement of Learning, by fetfuripgthe copies of
maps, charts, and books to the authors and pro«
prietors of such copies,. during the times there-*
in mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of tie
Diftridl of Pennsylvania.
July 18. djt—wstf
No. 188.
DiflriS of Pennsylvania, to ink :
(L. s.) T4 E 1T REMEMBERED, that on the
JLJ twenty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Fenno, of the said dif
fcri&.hath deposited in this-office the title of a hook,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit :
" Observations on certain 'documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of M The History ef the Unit
" ed States for the year 1796," in -which the
" of speculation, against; Alexander Hamilton, late
44 Secreta/y of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
" ( Writvn'by himfeif "
In conformity to? he aSt of theCocgrcfs of ths.
Ucited State?, entituled, " An ail for the encour
agement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors an<? propri
etors of fueh copies, during th« tunes therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the DiftvW of 2®timfylvan'ta.
Julv 27. W4W
Public Notice is hereby given, !
THAT at June term, 1797. a petition v.*ai
preffented to the Court of Common Pleas,
held it Y*rk Town, in the State of Pennsylva
nia, at the instance ®f James Short, praying
] the Court to supply a loft deed made by a cer
i tain indriw Hickenluber, to Hugh Morrifon,
James Morrifon, and John Sample, executor*
to Han» Morrifon, deeeafed, for fix hundred
—— acres of Land, fltuate in Menallen
townlhip, in the county of York •• —All pers
sons who have any objeiSUons to make to the ob
jefl of the fiid petition are desired to attend at
the Court Hsule, in the town of York, oo the
jth day of September next, atherwife the loft
deed will be fupplitd.
JOHN EDIE, Clerk.
July 18. eotSj
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on Saturday lift, two indented Ser
vants,Oifford Dally, a mulatto boy,abo\it\ 7
years of age, a Aim fight built adive fellow, em
read and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
has a heavy countenance ; had on a fuftian eoaue
and trovrfers, a high crowned hat, fine flioei &c.
Allan Hellons, a black man, about 14 years of
age, five feet seven Sr eight' inches high,a thick set
clumsy built fellow, particularly about the
h*(fon a sailor's blue jacket lined with fwanikin,
dark ft ripe d vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
hat, coarse shoe«, &c.; each of them had several
Ihirts and several other cloathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or 15 dol
lars for each, and reasonable charges, oh delivering
them at No. 54, North Third-ftrect.
The black fellow is about a year from Lewk
Town, in the County of Susses, state of Dela
ware, and has taken the boy with him. » ,
July 31. mtuSrfiw
CAUTION. *
WHEREAS Richard Lakh has been at
tempting to fell a certais rr.efiuageor ten
ement and lot of ground, situated on the south
fide of Vine-fttreet, in the city of Philadelphia
containing in breadth, on Vin«-ftreet. fixteeit
feet, and in depth, southward, seventy five feet,
bounded on the north fide by Vine-ftieet, on
theeafl t>y ground late of Samuel Rhodes and
Sarah his wife, on the south by ground late *f
John Pembeiton,and on the weft by another lot
then about to be granted to Joseph Hulings—
- This is therefore to caution all persons against
purchasing the above described property, the
fame having been mortgaged by the said Rich
ard Lake to William Spade.'
SARAH SPADE.
July 14 coiw
Mufual Itijirument Manufaftory,
No. 167, Arch-Street.
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable
Gd:-board, pier table and square piano for«e
maktr from London, returns thanks to his friends
1 and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
' and hopes that by his assiduity ahd atfentk nto ev
■ ery branch of his Lufincfs, to merit a continuance
? of their favors. Piano fortes made on tho- rieweft
r and moil approved plans, with pedals, pateat,
fwcll, and French harp stop, which hefl?.ttei*
himfeif will ue found on trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not fuperiorto any import*,
ed, arid twenty per cent cheaper. Any inllru
~ msnt purchased of him, ii not approved of in
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. kinds of Muficul mftruments mado,.
uned, and repaired with the greatest accuraty,
dispatch, and on the moll reai'ynable terms,
t ready money only.
i Second hand Piano Fortes taken in exchange.
&im.
Forty Dollars Reward.
RAN away from the fubferiber 011-the fecj
onddayof this inft. July, a Mulatto Man,
: named VVill Bowzer,. about forty years of age,
• five feet fevtn or eight inches high, nather
r chunky made ; had on when he went away, a
drab Colored clrnh coat, liriped purple trowfet.»
and jacket. It is probable he will change his
cloathes, as he took a number with him. The
: said fellow formerly belonged to Mr. Charles
' Blake of this place; and it is expedlcd he has
made towards Jones's Neck, in the Delawai *
State.—Any person apprehending the feid fei
'low, atpcl securing him so that I can get him a-,
' gain, (hall receive the above reward if taken
rtut of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
' the coun'y, and all reasonable charges if bro't
- home*
JESSE REED,
Qjtcen Ann's Ctfimty, Maryland.
July 3. - wjt