of m x»» Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Numbs a 1486.]
For Sale,
The fine and remarkably faft
Virginia and Philadelphia
Burthen about 100 tons. For terms apply to
Rofs Iff Sim/on.
June i». dtf
For St. Thomas,
THE SHIP
Ann and Mary,
• * yM'jg* Captain Bui IS j,
WILL fail in.ten days, for
freight or passage apply to ,
F, COPPINGEE.
No. 2-21, South Front street.
June 9. diot
*rrk- For Sale,
ACT IV E,
V3QaE&£I«&o TI tKe . ct (, ; n fl. at t ' ae Coffee-
House, at 7 o'clock. P. M, as ihe came from tea:
(he is known to be a faft sailer. Any particular ml
formation may be had cn application to Capt. Bing
bjin on hoaid said brig, at MclT. JclTe and Robert
Wain'# Wharf, to John Plankinhora, or Thomas
Scewait. Inventoty to be seen and terms of pay
m#i.t to be made known at th« time of sale.
June 8. "* tf
For London,
TH E BHI p
frffsS WILLIAM PENN,
'JAMts 'Josiah, Majler.
WILL fail with all convenient fpced. For
freight orpafTage apply to
"JeJJe y Robert Wain..
May .9 r > 5
For Sale,
7he cargo of *he brig Enterprise > Captain
J.angdun jrom Bourdeaux, no to landing at
Morion's tuharf
consiting or
5»4 hhds. of Claret 2 .
aI7 cases of ditto . xi "S
100 cases of Sweet Oil .
11 o pipes London proof 7 '5 «
10 pipes 0/Hollandjiioof 5' D * ANDY ' W -o
Apply to
Wharton & Lewis,
• No. 115, South Front St.
Said Brig,
WILL take a FREIGHT for
the Weft-Indies or Enrope, fails
burthen about fifteen hun
-3- barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be raady to receive a cargo in a
sow days
Apply as above-.
May 24 $
For Sale or Charter,
THE SHIP
warren,
Benjamin Church, Majler.-
W}} ahout 280 tots burthen. En-
TJ-zquire of
Jeffe & Robert iValn-
May i 6 |
JohnTarris, mailer.
A GREAT part of her cat go is engaged, and
(he will fail in ten days. For freight or pal
fage apply to capt. Tarris, at Willing* ,& Francis'
wharf, or to GURNET & SMITH.
May 2j 5
For Freight or Charter,
To any part of Europe,
Swedifh Ship
Alexander Magnus,
Capt. Carl O. Ehsman, ' -
A BOUT 350 tons burthen, in .this port; aid
JU . also the Daoilh Ship FREDERICK JULIUS
KAUS, of 450 tons, now lying in Hampton Roads.
Apply to JOHN VAtJGHAN.
May 26. tuthf^t
For Freight or Charter,
i Brig Fame,
S FRANCIS KNOX, Mailer:
A ftrorig, excellent veffcl, has been just (heathedand
teady to receive a cargo. She will carry 2,000 bar
rels has good accommodations so passenger*.
Apply to
Capt. Knox, or to
Kearny Wharton.
Jace 6. 6p
This Day is Publiihed,
4hi fold by H. I. Kam mirer, jun. No.
34, North Third-fired, also, by Mr. Hsn
jtr Swstrzsx, No. 85, Race-fired,
(Price l*alf a Dollar neatly bound)
The Man of real Sensibility ;
Or, Tkt HISTORY OF SIR G. ELLISON.
Founded m Fall.
(J3T The cltgant Edition of the Elements tf Moral,
ity, 1a two volt, illustrated with twenty copper*
y,«tn, may also be bad at above, price, fall bound
and gilt, two dollars ar.d fifty cents.
H St I. K jums. have on band a quanty of No. j
•nd * Writing Paper.
June 8. „ eojp
HAY.
A Qaantity of excellent Old and New Hay to
xi.be had at Peel Hall Farm on the Wifiahickon
Road, about 2 miles from the City.
Also, A QUANTITY Ot BUILDING STONE.
I""e 8 • §6t
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the City—
o? rjßious sizes,
f":om 8 by 6 to >g by 14,'
By the fmgte Box or Quimi y, mav be bad at the
S oreof the Subfcribcr:, corner of A.ifc and From
ihect,
fames C. & Samuel IV. Fisher.
Philadelphia, Joe 9, 1797.
P HIL AUEL PHI A : TUESDAY EVENING, JUFE 13, 17^7.
A Quantity of Brandy,
Flit ST & id proof,
Gin, of 4th prfcof, in pTp°s
Jamaira Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in .cases of 40 dozen earh
Glass Tumblers, in pints and fealf-pinr*
Window Glass, in boxes, of different filtfs
Harlentifs, inftrk*.
Whiting
Copperasi / . .
White Lead f ,llhhds
& Spanilh Brown J
For Sale by
• PET BR BLIGHT.
January 4
Rofs & Simfan,
Have for Sale,
A QUANTITY OP PRIMfi
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superiot Qld Lilbwi Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
"TenerifFe Wine,
In Madeira Calks
A few Quarter Chefls best
Fresh Hyion and ) . _
Ilyfcn Skin j TEAS
Muscovado Sugars ill Hogflieads, and
CoiTee in Tierces
March 7. |*|
Houlhold Furniture.
NOW felling by private ials, No. 17 Pock
ftreet—confiftingot chairs, tables, loot'.inj
glaffes, bureaus, hand and fire irons, bedsteads,
feather-beds, carpets, bedding, window curtains,
bed and table linen, kitchen furniture, &c. The
whole in good order, and has only been a few
months in use. ,
The sale to continue daily 'till the whole is fold.
J""g i . §
St. Übes Salt.
3000 bushels St. Übes SALT, for sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
June ii. 3t
Richard Bayley Ss? Co.
Late John Whitesides & Co.
No\ 136 Marlet-Jlreet,
HAVE received per the Ihips William Penn and
Star from London, a large and fafhionable af>
fortment of the following articles : viz.
Chintzes, and printed Cottons, of the newell
patterns
Furniture Dimities and Chintzes
Ginghams, plain and figured,
Muslins, printed and embroider'd
Do. tambour'd, plain, check and ftrip'd
Do. tamboured, of a very superior quality
Fine Book, Jaconet and Decca Handkerchiefs
Dimities and muflinets
Damaik table-linen, in setts and in the piece
Diaper ditto in Cloths and in ditto
Holland and Ruflia Sheetings
Loop'd Hollands and Irish Linens
Lpng Lawns and Cambrics
Sartins and Silks, plain and figured
Ribbons and Gloves
CTapes and Gauzes
Straw, Chip, and Paper Hats aad Bonnets, new
shapes
Fancy trimmings, &c.
With a variety of articles in the Linen-Drapery
and Haberdalhery line.
May za § lo t
Printed Calicoes.
JOHNMILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Cbefnut'Strect»
Have for Sale
.FIFTY TRUNKS aeatJy assorted, very low on
ihort credit.
March 6. * §
PennfylvaniaPopulatipn Company.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Share Hold
ers, that a further afltffinent of nine dol
lar s is levied on each Ihare, payable as follows/
viz.
Six Dollars immediately, and
Three Dollars on the iltof July next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Treasu
rer of the Company, at the Company's Office,
No. a, North Fourth-street, agreeably to tbe
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed, that on their negle&ing to pa the
fame as above direAed, the fevera (forfeiture*
will be exacted.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MAKACHE, Treofurer.
May j7, djot
Just Arrived,
In the schooner Dove, Captain Paul, from Sr
Thomas, and for sale by the fubferiber.
Muscovado Sugar in hhds- tierces aad barrels.
St. Croix Hum in hhds.
And Laguira hides.
ALSO ON HAND,
Imperial, Hyson, and Sherry and Malaga
Hyson Skin Teas. Wines.
Yellow Nanketna. Holland Gin in pipes.
Canton Cloth. Do. Cheese. I
Luteftrhigs. Do. Glass ware.
Silk Hankerchiefs. China Ware.
Sewing Silk. Window Blinds.
Cottoh in bales. .Rheubarb.
Peruvian Bark. Quickfiktr, &c.
JOSEPH SIMS.
May aad. di4t.
Grattan and Comp.
D Efpe&fuMy inform their friends, thit they have
IV importeJ from London per the (hip Star, a
large afibrtmeat of
PERFUMER r.
Which is now opened for {ale at their HoUse, No.
19a Market-street.
Also, a new afToituient of ready-made gentle
men's linen, lhiits from a dollars each to 8 dollars,
&c. &c. &c.
Ladies and gentltmen are accommodated with
beard and lodging a: ten Dollars each.
Those Gentlemen who have their own private
lodgings, may be accommodated with dinner only,
by the week or month .
June 5 it
The Subscriber,
Determined to retire from btifinefs, invites all
wl.o have any note, bill, bond or acceptance
of hi., now due, to call fur payment i and those
who wi(h to anticipate may receive the money
at * reasonable ttilcouut.
JAMES SWAN.
. May 22. »Uw.
J)oAbefter, ncarßofloii, tjth May 1797.
By John Fen no, N 0- ii c) Chef nut Street.
NOTICE. *
THE co-par nerfhipof WiHiamYourtgt fohri Mills,
and John Miiij jun. Bookiellers and &ati<jners, yn-
Cr j* a- ' * Yonng. MiiJs Son, is (bis
day dmoJved by niuiual consent. Aljpe» indebted
to rhe cop4rfnerftjio are frouefted.to Payment
to W iliiam thofe havingdemands are de
? to produce their accounts for fetclemeat.
William Toung,
John Mills,
yohn Mills, fun.
Philadelphia, June 6IH, 1797.
W. Y O U N G
Contiaues the boolcfclSni; and Itaticni'y bafltlefs at
the uTual place, wbolefale and retail, wherf- he kas
uov a v* y large afforu&enrof .
IVriting and Printing Papers and Booh,
Of which catalogues with the prices affixed' aie de
livered gratis-
Wanted,
A person well qualified in the book felling and sta
tionary bullaefs. Applications will be received till
the firft July next, at No. 52, south SeCofld-ftreet,
corner of Chefnut-ftrect.
June 6. *d7P
Just Received, ;
From Batavia (via Providence) N
170 Sacks of Java CofToe of firft quality
200 half sacks do. do.
a few Boxes of Spites, consisting of
Nutmegs, Clqvesaad Mace
Yor sale by
irtLUNGStf FRANCIS,
Pemwflreet.
A* a y 3° dtf i
For Sale, a new threeJlory Brick
House.
AT the Merchants Coffee House, on Friday
next, the i£th inll. at half part 8 oVlock
in the evening, will be fold by Public Vendue,
a genteel thrqp story brick Hdufe ; it is pleifant
ly situated on South fide of Arch Street, the
fourth house above Fourth street. .1
It may be viewed any time before the sale*'
Terms are, one fourth in approved not£s b"F,
60 days, and the refidueif required .may remain
fevuu years, an security and interest annually.
Soldclear of all incumbrances, and immedi
ate poiTcffion may be given.
Further particulars will be made fcijown at
the time of sale, dy
Richard Footman Co.
Audioneers.
June 12. dst
Pennsylvania Population Com- J
pany. <
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sharehold- 1
ers, that a further afieffment of fifteen 1
dollars is levied on each share, payable in the 1
following instalments—viz. 1
One quarter immediately. .'
One quarter on the tftof June. 1
One quarter oil the jft September. 1
One quarter on the ift Dec. next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Trea
surer of the Company at the Company's Office, .
No. 53 north Fourth street, agreeably to the <
times above mentioned ; aud they are further i
informed that on their negleiHug t© pay the (
lame as above the several forfeitures 1
direfied by the Ccnftitution, wilU be exaited. <
By order of the Board, ;
SOL. MARAQHE,
Treasurer.
M *y '< jim f
To be Sold,
A large and convenient
Three Story Brick House; •]
SITUATE a\rhe north-east corner of Arch ancf "
i'ourth-ftreets. It contains eighteen rooms— 4
and is in every refpedt well finited. For partxeu- i
)ars enquire of '
M. Keppele, I
No. 138, Chd"nut- r treet. f
May 31. j f
Etfkine's View of the War. [
JUST PUBLISHED, r (
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents}
A View of the Causes and Confequen- r
ces of theprefent War with France. °
By the Honorable Thomas Erskini.
M -*V '-T $
Maurice Moynihan, (
No. 81, North Secondftreet, f
A few doors above Arch-flreet,
INFORMS his friends and thepublic.that ke has
for wholesale or retail, on the lowest term 3, a
geneial assortment ef Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
tumblers, plain and flnwered quart, pint, half pint
gill and half gill do. cxa<st measures, decanters and
wine glasses; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint
bowls, and china in sets and, separate ; pocket
bottles : Schuyikill and Jersey country quart and
half gallon bottles; Dry Goods, &c. &c.
N. B. Crates put up with care at the shortest no- ; r
>ice. ,
May 11. dtf
JOHN CRAIG
HAS just imported from Rotterdam, via St.
Thomas, and for sals on reasonable terms
by tlte package
PUtillas Royal
Haerlem and German linens
Rouens
Post and ProPitrii Paper
Wafers
Qiiills
Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles
Coffee Bags ~
He has also for Sale, ,
Best Red Clover Seed
Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use
Teneriffe Wine of firft and second Quality
Coffee in Bags and Hogfiieads r
Jamaica Spirit's
Connecticut Turpentine Soap 1
Window Glass j
Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Cotten n
Hosiery
April 18. 4aw
WANTED,
ABOUT 200 ton 9 of freight, for any port
in Spain, or the Mediterranean in a neu
tral boitom. Enquire of JAMES YAI!D
Jun* 7. ? t
For Sale,
s ' ' I 'HE unexpired time of a likely Negro
i- Girl, about to yearsold, who has upwards
j of II years to i'erre. —SJbe is of a good temper,
and very imart, iciive and ufeful in a family. .
Apply at No. 147 South float, or 35 Uatett
ftr;ct. June 10 —'mwSf
The sale of 40931 1-2 acres o 1
Land on the waters of Whealing and Filhing
Creeks, in Walhington county, advertifcd for
15th inft. 13 postponed :o a future day, of which
due notice willbe given, if a fate.does
( not take place.. 3t
Junen.
1 jjt ——. —1 ■■ t.— ——-
Port-Office, 23d May, 1797.
ai for Baltimore will be closed at this of- I
ficr every morning (Sundays excepted) at half past 7
o'clock
The Mail for Boston will be clofcd every day
(Sundays excepted) a* 12 o'clock noon and
j The Mail-f6r Frederica, Milford.'CJowes,
rough, Delaware, Horntown, Accomack Court-House
' and Northampton Court-Houic, Virginia, will be
closed every Monday (nocning at half part 7 o'c\>ck.
May e 3 . * l£t
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
(•Neatly bound and lettered, price 2 dels. 15 cts.)
By G. DECOMBAZ,
i BOOKSELLKk & STATIONER,
No, 48, Norih Third Street,
Ihe Adventures of Telemachus.
French and Englilh, % vols, itrno.
AMONG the books which daily.fall :sto the
ha«.ds of the y®uth of both lexes, none
have a higher claim to their attention than Tele
machus, the njsft interesting lessons are here
conveyed in the vehicle of an 1.-.terelling Poem,
replete with the fintli touches ef the true pa
thetic, and embelifhed with all the graces of a
beautiful ityie. The fatat effciflf of indulging
the passions are exemplified in the molt linking <
manner ; and the happiness attending inno
cence and virtue painted in the livelicft colours, j
Whatever can incite to virtue or deter fcom ■
yifce ; whatever can enlighten the underltand- i
' ing, charm the imagination, and improve the
heart, is to be found in this interesting work.
THE NAVAL GAZETTEER; «
Being a eomplete Geographical .Dictionary, '
containing a full and accurate account, alpha- '
betically arranged, of all the countries and ill- j
ands in the known world ; ihowing their lati- t
ude, foundings, and stations for anchorage ; 4
with a particular description of the feveralßays, ,
Capes,' Channels, Coves, Creeks, Currents, „
Gulfs, Harbours, Havens, Lakes, Oceans, Ra- „
ces, Rivers, Roads, Rocks, Sands, Shoals, «,
Sounds, Straits, Tides, Variation of the Com- «
pass ice. Together with a particular relation «
of the ihape and appearance at sea, of the feve- •<
ral Headlands, Isthmuses, Peninsulas, Points, <1
, Promontories, and whatever is of use or impor- «<
tance to the Master, Pilot, Commander, or "
Seaman ef any (hip or vfcffel, in navigating the "
watery element. •<
Also Comprehending "
Ample Dire&ions for tailing into or out of the "
.different Ports, Strait?, and Harbours of the "
four quarters of the werld ; and for avoiding "
dangers on the various and extended coafls j in j
whielv*iore than twelvethoufand diftiaifl names "
of places, are treated of Ind explained. With „
a correal set of Charts, i vols. Bvo. price 6 dols.
3v the Uev. JOHN MALHAM,
gjf This has been pronounced the most ufe
ful and the cheapest book publilhed in America.
June 0- dtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School foV young Ladies.
MRS. with much pleas- ~~
ureand refpetfl, retains her finccre ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
Ihe has received during four years refitlence in p,
Philadelphia ; and iifures her friends and the lc
public, so far from intending to dtclinr htr p
school, she has made a superior arrangement for
the mdfe convenient accommodation of her tc
scholars.—Every branch of ufcf'il and polite m .
education is particularly attended to bjr Mrs.
Groombridge and mailers excelling in their c(
refpedtive profi*flions. w
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets. fa
June jth, 1797. £imftf so
Ihe fituatien is perfe<f\ly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an exterfive garden and lot ll
of ground adjoining the
'
For Sale, 'J
ON board the Ihip Mour, John Frofl, niaP.er
from Liverpool, laying at.Waluut-ftrect wharf d
6000 bushels of fine ftoved Salt, c <
And QUr'EN'S WARE, well all ried,
By PHILIP.NICKLIN (3* Co.
WHO HAVE IN STORE, AtSO FOR SALE, «
100 Boxes WhiteHavanna Sugars ' v
Imperial and ) ~
Hyson 5 T £A s
17 tubs Qiiickfilver
ichefts Bandanno Hindkerchiefs
A few chests Manchester Goods well assorted d
in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, mufliuets, ci
dimities, &c. 2 Trunks black sewing silk, qi
180 Crates queens ware, w«!l aiforted,
10 Tons flieet lead,
Nails aflorted, flat and Ib-irp points,
London particular and ) Madeira Wine in
India market ) pipes and hhds.
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Tentriße Wine, hi
10 pipes choic* Port ditto,
31 calks yellow paint, *
7 boxes u bundles writing Hates, u
1 box Ink-fUiids & note prclTei, i?
Sail canvas j (Tor ted No. 1 a 8.
Mty 4. dtf U
-
Millinery Room, ?;
No. 136 Market Jlreet ol
MISS CIiBTSTAL t*
TAKES an early opporlunily of acquainting ti
her Fn.fnds tha.t lh'. has received by the it
Willum Penn. a variety of NEW MIL- to
LINERY, &c. which Ihe hopes to be able to ol
fticw them in a few day». h
May 18 } ;gt
A 1-EIV BOXES OF
Bologna Saufa?es,
-OF A "SUI'fRiOR QUALITY,
To be fold No. 199 vx-ifj Fxnt- t-ret.
Aprlto, sot s
i The Commiflioners
"jpOR, carrying int» effefl the TWENTY-FIRST
s -Article of the Treaty ®f Friendfliip, I.imitr,
' aijd Navigation, between His Catholic Maietly
anj tbe Unitedscjt-cs of Amend, hereby givcln-
P- -Urmntiop to ?U Peribps therein oonccrncd,—That,
in order t® terminate all d (Terences, on account of
the losses fulljined by the Citizens of tlie- United
State., in consequence of tWr Vtlfcls and Car
s S oes having b-cn taken by the Subjects of His Cat},-
T ohc Majesty, during the .late War between Spain'
h an( J France, that they are ready to receive (r.t their .
, Office, between tiie honr« of ten and one o'clock;
daily) all complaints and application*,, authorized
by the fold Article, dnring^Ejoulaim
lre» the eay of the dnte hereof, and that they b&v* ;
power to examine all such pcrfons at come before
them, on oath or affirmation, coaching tho ccm
plaints and alio to receive in evidence,
al! wr*ttcn reftimony, iuAentitated in fuck mac
? ner as they fuafi think proper to require or admit.
By Order of the Coaimi/tiiners,
; .PETER LOHRA,
Secretary.
C mmijjioners Office, Ao. 109, Mulberry
net, Philadelphia, Moj ijth, 179 7.
■» *o—itw
1 he CommifHoners
Ir OX carrying into esseS the sixth article of the
treaty of amity, Commerce and navigation, eon
eluded bctwetfi hisQtit-nnic majesty and theUi;ittd
States of Am<.vica,en the 19th day ot Novtmbw,
1794, having this day con (tit v ted their Hoard,'
pursuant aud agreeably to the said treaty, do here
by give notice, that they art ready tp proceed to
hufinefs accordingly; and they defirs that all claims
under the.faidart.de (which so faj> as the fane dc
icribes tbe cases thereby provided for, is hereunto
annexed) may be lodged with their Secretary with
out delay. .
They further defirethat all fiich claims may cot
only state in what raann»r the i'everal cases come
within the description of the said article, but alfa
fpeeially set forth t he nature of the evidence br
which the claimants refpeJUvely undertake tsOrii.
the
Exjrtft from the fillet article,
" Whereas it is allcdged by divers British mer
" chants, and others his majesty's fubjefta, that
" debts to a confid.rabla amount, which were bos*
" fide contrWled, before the peace,-ftili remain
" owing to then) by citizens or inhabitants ps Ae
" United States ; and that by the operation of
*' rious lawful impediments, "fiace the peace, not
" ®OJy th e full recovery of the laid debts las Seen
" delayed, bat alfolhe value and security thereof
" have teen in several inftances-unpairod and feflV
" ened, so that 6y the ordiftary ceurfe of judicial
- proceedings, tKe Brfrifl. creditors cannot n«v
" °°tain and a&ually have and receive fall and
" adequate compensation for the loffe» an< dama
" ges which tney have thereby sustained: It Ls a
" greed that in all such where full compenfa
" tion for foch losses and damages cannot for what
" ever teafon be aituilly obtained, had and recei
" by the Ikid creditors in the ordinary fcourfe
'• of justice, the United States will make full * n i
" complete compensation for the fame to the 'said
« creditors: but it Udifti»aiy understood, that
this proviuon is to extend to fiicfi losses only as
" h " Te , b s* n ««afioa*d b T the lawful impedimenta
aforc said, and is not to extend to losses occasion
" ed by such infolvcncy of the debtors or other
" causes, as would equally have operated to pro
" " f " cfl '°k> # fiiJ impediments had not
existed ; nor to furfi losses br damages as have
" been occasioned by the manifeft delay, ornczli
«• b eucc, or wilful omission of the claimant."
By order as the Board,
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secretary.
Philadelphia, Commilßoners' Office,
No. 3 fouthSixth-ftveet, May 29,
'W- J 6-§xm
yHE SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
1. the Envoy hxtraprdinary ar.d Minilter Plem.
potentvjryof his Biitannic Majesty, General Agent
ioraffilting Brmih creditors, and luch particular a
gentsas they may fpeeially auihoriie t in profecutme
their d«ms before ibe Cemmiffiooers tor earrvii.ir in
to etf.a the i.xth article ol the Treaty of Amity, Cm
mcrct and hlwcn his Britimic M a „tK aad
the United States 0/ AntriLa, hereby gives notice that
he ha* openfc. hisoftve at his house the foutii east
corner of Chefnut and fifth ftjeets, Philadelphia
where he is ready to receive all claims or inlliufliona
lor claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof
for the puroofe of bringing forward the fame agree!
ably so (lie rules and orders which the board m»v
think proper co prescribe. '
And as it will be for the imereft of all concerned,
that the (everal clai.ni be so stated,. and support!
td, as ropreveoube delay which would arile fTom
the necefiuydf inlorm»tion, or ad.
ditional malenais,from persons residing at a diltance
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the*
dirttbon chiefly of thof-, who, not having employ,
ed particular agent,, may | f ,ve the ptofecmion of
their ciitmn to his charge and' manage men:} that til
such claims ought in particular :o set toril.—
ift. Thep-oper d,lcrlp.ion aad (i:nat ron of the
ocditor ot claimant, egd original debtor, refpe^U
ad. The date or nature of the original contrast or
debt*
3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant ww pTeven(»d or impeded,
by the. provision, operation or deleft of law, the
decitiont aud pra^lice of courts, or reflraint ot exe
cution, from tecuvciiug payment of the debt in
question.
4th. The loss and damage incurreU or ftflained,
tn confequehce cf such impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen from the mfolveney, chanee of
fuuattAo, or death of the deb lo r, the loss ol legal
remedy from laple of time, or other caufei impairi-12
the value and security of the debt, which would not .
have so operated if such impediments had not exTlted, -
Andyh The pauiculargrounds and rfilons on
which the claimant maintain,, in the terms of the
treaty, that " by the ordinary courfeof judicial pro
mgi, the c editor caiuiot now obtain and aftually
have and receive full ai d adequate compenfatior.'Mor
the loflVs ai.d damages !o fulttiued.
The fe tueral agent think, ithis duty further tdr»z
gtft that the f. vera! claims ought to be accompanied
and tupporied by the affidavits of the claimants rfo'v
sworn and regularly atitiled, btha. to theexiftene«
of .the debts claimed, and fucb other clrcumftoncea
as may be within their own knowledge re(pc£lively.
And iaherevLr the cLiiinants in flattnj-the naturo of
their evidence (whichmuft in be the
test of which the cafe is capable) have occasion to
tefcr to the teftimooy of wit.e(Tes, it wiH be proprr
to apprise the general agent ol the names and places
of relidence of luch witneffe.and thefaftito be ella
blithed by tliait testimony.
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June B>h, 1737. dun
New-England Rum,
In Hoglhcads and Bane's, for&!e by
ezeklul HALL.
J"1« r
XI.XJ)c Csa3Cttr» &
. PHILADELPHIA,
I Ton
. TUESDAY ErESINr,, JUNE I.U 1797- sal "'
■ ' - ''j
Having received by thtjhip Tclemacatu,al
Sojlin, from Liverpool, regular jiles of "Trie 1
limes and Morning Chronicle, for the mon.h
vf April, *vc are enabled to lay b:f'ire ourreud
ers particulars of many interesting events bf
rvhich Tveranjt yjlerddy the outline.
Mr. Pitt, on the 27/ i, opened the Budget*, me ,
which contains propitious far sundry mw _
taxes —amorgjl others, ilii addMon.ilflavnp dn- '
ty an mto[papers and an enhancement of the lax '*•-
ci adveriijemcnls —the whole sim propose.l so
be raifidbiing ifi,OOQ,QOO, -which, however,
/fays ike Times) -will falijheri by upwards of
-i,cso,oob.
Our Lrjdenpcpers by this arrival, arete- 5°
plete <w!th inlerejling )tiatl:r. Want cf room 0- to
bilges us to defer a variety of tranfljtiom pre- Sl
- for this day's paper. ■
Front she LEYDRN GAZcTTE*. (
BELGIUM. J®
Mrujftls, 1.-JI Marefr, 179'.
«IT i» oft 'jV;i tlay that the p=op!e.of the 01
nine d*partiaeftti.of Beiaium i» called on to ex ei
tccil'j t'o.r tH-firil that ad of favcreigniy, B
'v'li hrter qujlification of "Setaeh eiti/en»:ha» at
.!», the- right of chanting ca
repre'eivtaTr/ts for the uew tbirJ, ieh 19 to
corprjalV pSrt of tlie legiflitu're offrance. Uri
" fi,rtii;T2.telv, is greatly to ir- apprehended that
thir i'tglii win for the pr?r--Bt be lUttfbry, and
rliat t;te reprefe!j:it!3n of this country, as an m
, al vart-of ttia Treneh republic, willbse;- ol
fh j i mere- chimera., or rather a mere form t)
without the reaTity. A very inconsiderable por
tion of tTie citizens ot Belgium lia» enroll-
e3 in ihe civic irgiiters ; a (till w«eaVer portion .
js difcofrdperhaps to attend tr.e primary afTcnl- '
)>'r<-» :-if is the exercise of Co pretiooa
# is abfolntely abandoned to the most def- vi
pirable part" 0/ the community, to violent par- n<
rizan-", an-l io mtn baiikru t t in reputatica and t ]
It; fortune. It is thus, moreover, that very fe.\v j
fchiau tititcna will offer themfelvej' as candi- t ,
dates for the legislature : this is problbly.the
motive,which Hasproduced the following.lctter;
«• The -Minister of the General Police of the
I'ranch Sepuhlie, to the Commifiioners, near
tie eei.tral admimftration rf the Department
0; DyLg.at Ba«sstLS.
" 1 am informed, citizen, that malevolence is
at wort in your department, and seeks, by a
and publications industriously circn'.at- e
ed, to perl'uade the inhabitants the united
dep*trht"nt» not to attend the primary aflem- .
biiea, viilefs to r*oteft against the re-union-.of .
t'.it c: d«vant Btlgium to France, arid not to
ruminate any deputies to the legiilature. lam a
afo informed by various channels, that several r
citizens o» those dcpartment»,even among those f
who appear ittached to the republic, are of o- ,
pinion that even if they should appoint this year £
Jlepiities to the legislature, they ought not to
take them from among the inhabitants of the I
e;-rtevant Belgium, but that, for this election, a
and until peace {hall have ultimately decided t
the fete of those dep.artments, the deputies
cught to be chosen in France. All the'fe fuggef
-1 tions are evidently the refulltif the nnnceuvr'es ,
cf the enemies ot the pubiic good, whowifhtor
alienate the inhabitants of your department, by
fiifpitittg them with fears refpe<fting the goad
will of rhe republic,' and by pcrfuading them '
jjjjT. 'here-union of the departments is not fo
lic!, and thut it is probable the republic will res- 1
tore them at the pca.ce. j
«T rt com mend to yrtii, dozens, to employ all ,
the tr.cairt in yot.r power to destroy the effect of ,
these perfidious jnfmuations on the minds of
your fellow'citizens, and to attach theip by 1
corcTiality and aflefition.t!) the republic as they 1
are By iiiterefl. Aflure "them thar the gevern
metit, flrong m the energy of all Frenchiaen
arid in the courage of tlie invincible republican
armies, will never Content to a peace, contrary
to the honor anddignity of the French people,
• and that it will never relinq>i : fh a union, cemen
ted by the interest of the two nations, and en
joined moreover by a law of the convention, a
law which it is not even in the power of the di
reiftory to contravene. Persuade then your fel
low citizens, to repair to the primary afTemblies,
.to choose good eleflow, such as will give sb the
legislature representatives, who will form one
lir.k more to the union of the" two nations.
«« I do not fee however any inconvenience,
anJ, perhaps under prefenfclrcumftjnc<,s there
would result foine advantage from your cliopf
inofomeof the.members for the nine depart
ments of ci-devant Belgium from among moss
French citizens, who are well known for
their talents and the fervicei which they have
rendered during the revolution ; the legiflaturc
has fnftained great lofles by the lite drawing of
lots ; you will find annexed THE namis of
some or thoif, whom it would be host
1 nttresriiiG to RISIORE to the legislature,
and without-wi/hing to influence your opinion,
r.ir the votes of your countrymen, I think it my
.'.aty to acquaint yo», that you will perform a
ilrMce very advantageous to the public good
AND VSRY AGRKEAiLt TO THE DIRICTOIY,
it you can PROCURE to be ele-fted in your de
partment sow 1 OF THOSE DBSIGNATtD IN
•• ','2 anufxed .tisT. Those wh ife names aie
marked in ilUri&n, are only eligible te the
Jouncil of hundred : the other are equally
c'ijtbie to both councils. Health and fraternity.
° ( Signed) " COC1ION."
REMARKS OA THE ABOVE.
' The above mandate from the mirtifter of po
liee to his agenf at 3r'uDels ( which ought to be
publiff>ed,sn a warning,in every paper through
out the United States J is tlie mojl audacious and
- barefaced interference in the facrcd. right of elec
tions that has ever been witr.effed under the
moft.encioaeliing mnn*relis.-
These wretched Belgians (whose very name
is soon to be ft ripped from them, their country
being carefully denominated the ci-devant Be!
giutn) are told, that tli'iiv mud eledl Frenchmen,
men who have just g"ne by lot out of the coun
cils, men who are defigoated, as bemgagrrenlle.
to the direShry ;'aiul a broad hint is given them,
that unless this is done, they wilt irtr ir the
wrath of the-powerful and vindvflive dirtCl ry f
Unhappy Belgians ! wh«t have you obtained by
your change ef matters ?
FRENCH ELECTIONS*
PARIS, 9 Germinal, March 29.
If the manoeuvres of the Jacobins have ftic
eeeded in the Prirr.a*-y Assemblies of £bme
parts 0/ the republic, it appears, 'however,
that a majority, which llrikes anarchy with
despair, has tuade tuch a choice as proir.ifcj
us de puties- of honor and integrity. They
vfrite from Avranches, that the eleftors are
l|Ly»p&3]je for th.ir Jioo.oi gild p.ulnty. nor..'
'the Jacobins in the AffembGcs were in pro- the
portion of 20 to 300. . _ _P
At Vitr/jfur-Marne, the most psrfeft uai- m;IT
ijii prevails in tlie afTemblies. Only one per- derr
fan was excluded as -insolvent, namely tlw: ney
famous Battelier, commiflioner of the Di- or.f.
j reftory, and ex-member ol the Convention. J bef;
Politicians are defirefj to answer the question, i fret
whether a man incapacitated from exercif.'g I dip
his political rig!4l in the afTemblies of the | j
people, is a proper objeft to bear the func- j we
tion; of a commiflioner of the Directory ? I a 11
The electors of that commune arc all honest j brc
men, who triumphed like wife at St. Dixier. I Po
The Primary AfTemblies of t'Aiu have 1 ycl
been held in tranquillity :the eleftions made 1 da
are excellent aim uft every where. At Cha- j
Inns they are as good as honest people can j fta
wiih them ; jt.Macoji they were held amidst I mc
• diftuchances ; at Sens, an impure obttfunOn I ha
of the Jacobins has disgraced the mass of I tei
good, citizens ; at Lyons all passed off to j ce
to the great fatisfaftion of all the friends of j lai
. gogd order and, peace. i Ida
At Rouen, Amiens, and Valenciennes, I p!
the eleftions have been very quiet, and were I
worthy of the cause which honest men de- I
fend. At Nantz, the choices have been J
tolerably good,notwithftandingthe intrigues j is
e of the Jacobins, and the culpable indiifer- I a 1;
ence of a great number of merchants. At I
, Blois 'he Jacobins were disappointed ; but I tl
s at _ Limoges and Montreuil fur Msr, they I a'
r came off victorious ; in the departments of I tl
0 the weft , the futfrages of the people fell up- I n
t on men justly esteemed. I f (
a A letter from Mortagne, in the depart- ll*
n merit of I'Orne, informs us, that the fitting j
of the Primary Assembly in that place' has 1
n been attended, with bloodshed. Without 111
-entering into details, our correspondent re- I n
marks, that the Jacobins of that country, |
" diflatisiied with the composition of the body 1
!3 of the eleftors, wiilied to proceed to afts of I o
f- violence, but the well-disposed people were j si
r- not intimated by their threats, and armed 'c
d themselves for the purpose of falling on the v
* dillurbers. Several have been wounded, and 1
two have been killed on the spot. The i
J. names of the last are Gotine and Lamber-1 t
diere. They were distinguished in the coun-
try for their revolutionary spirit. I a
VENDOME, 3 Germinal, March 23. j t
is Our Primary Aflemblies are terminated, I a
»y and those of the adjacent diftrifts are also i
■ t_ eiided. If all the assemblies in the repub- I e
:< * lie were held in the fame patriotic manner, e
if all the eleftions refemblejd ours, the con- j
t0 ftitution will be refpefted. All our eleftors I I
m are refpefted, and justly refpeftable; our t
•al municipal administrators are recalled to the I 1
>fe functions which they filled with so much I «
wisdom and energy,and itwas nota common 1 1
ar majoyty -which marked those chosen by the I <
people, but every one of them was elected I 1
n) almost unanimously, and the triumph of vir- I <
•a tue is complete. I 1
its RIOM, 3 Germinal, March 23. I '
ef- In the town of Riom, the Jacobins in- I ■
re * trigued in such a manner among the peasants, | 1
v'ho are very numerous there, that out of I ;
j j the 12 eleftors chosen by the three different I
. al feftions of that city, every one is a Jacobin. I
so- At Limoges, the friends of the bishop I
cf- Gayvernon have terrified the inhabitants in I '
such a mariner, that,,it seems they will again I
al ' triumph this year : Lefage, Senault, Ca- I
of v 'g l,ac » Treilhard, Dubois Crance, Dau- I
by nou, Drout, and Co. may therefore expect I
tey to be re-elefted. I
rn- At Verdun, one of the worthy brothers of I
:en Pons, the partisan of the mountain party, I
:an passed on horseback through the town, on'l
"7 the eve of the elections, wilhing to make the I
:e ' people rifg agaipft the ancient mayor, whom I
en. Pons of Verdun had turned out of office ; I
, a but, notwithstanding' the money distributed I
di- among the workmen, the attempt he made I
fel- served only to confound him.
In the department of l'Eure the eleftors I
the are nominated ; they are men worthy of that I
3ne department: it is true, that in the little I
, ce> commune of Pont-audemer some flavesof the I
,ere Mountain had the honor of being chosen I
3of- eleftors; but their number is so small, in |
art- comparison with the friends of the conilitu- I
- >SL ' tution, that there is no reason to be afraid of I
for them,
avt
s U of BRUSSELS, 8 Germinal, March 28. I
of One Chapel, ex-administrator of the de-1
sst partment of the Dyle, a fraudulent bankrupt, I
ure > haying been introduced by a junto of Jaco- I
bins into the office of the Primary Assembly, I
my notwithstanding the renionftrances of the I
ood .gocid citizens who v-anted to exclude him I
t YI from it, has been arraigned by the citizens I
de- of his feftion, before the Civil Tribunal*— I
1 in Last night at twelve o'clock, the Tribunal
i are declared, that that infamous man was infol
' vent, and could not of course preserve the
rights of citizenship. He was, therefore,
V. difgracefully turned out of the Assembly,
which mufl begin all its operations over a
gain, they have beea pronounced null and
po- void, owing to the presence of a bankrupt
1 at the office. _
; S ll_ Several Teftions of this city have chosen
."" re their eleftors last night, of whom a lift will
be feht, containing the charafttr and qualifi-
of every individual contained in it,
tame and chosen to exercise those important func
mtry tions. In the feftion des Cannes is citizen
Bc ' of the Criminal Tri-.
***> bun.'i!.
rai/'e P- B, This moment we learn, that the
fcftionS affemblcd in the Temple of the Law,
r the have chosen for their eleftors the ci-devant
ry ! duke d'Utfel, the ci-dtvant count Launoy,
:d by JJtpefter Laferte and citizen Ferry.
LONDON, April 2c.
The accounts received from Portsmouth
by the post of yellerday were extremely em
fnc- barraffing, as the lords Commissioners had
(bme nrft on Wedncfday evening been able to per
ever, fuade the sailors to abandon their ex"rava
with gant and dangerous preteniions, which feem
r.ifel ed to increase in proportion as the liberality
.'hey of the Commissioners disposed thfm to ac
; are cede to every thing which was just and ho-
uorubie, and compatible with tke Welfare of f
the fervicc.
from an increase of pay, which the Com- pam:
miifioners were willing to grant, the failon iflsni
demanded a larger proport ion of prize-mo- fides
1 ney, a greater quantity of provitiono, petiti
ons for their families in cafe of any accident
befalling them, liberty to go on (hore more »
I frequently, &c. &c. In (hort, it seemed
J difficult to know what they did require. l |T>
According to advices received kit night, 1111,1
Iwe are happy to fay, that affairs had taken tom
I a more favorable turn ; and though at the nat '
I breaking up of the Board held yesterday at
I Portsmouth, matters were not quite fettled, ''
I yet.t|y:y were again in a train of accommo- °PI
| dat'ion.
In the mean time we tliiak it nefceffary to r ' ia
J state, that the reports circulated in several
I morning papers of yesterday, of the sailors m "
i I having hung up one of their men for his at- I
F tempting to take the part of a gallant Oft- ] t " 1
t cer, and'of having flogged others for fimi- an <
f 1 lar offences, are without the smallest foun- V 1
I dation. Affairs hare been Efficiently un- tr )
, I pleafar.t, without the need of exaggeration. (
. I PARIS, April 13. pai
i I On examining the wounds of Syeyes, it n oi
s } i? found that they are the more dangerous,
- I as the balls have been cut. j>"
tj On an examination of the assassin before ,0
t I the Police, he said, that he gloried in having
y I avenged his country of a man who had been
f I the source of so many misfortunes. He de- (j;i
i. I nied having any accomplices, and there was fei
I found in his pockets a printed lift of the ry
■- I National Deputies.
g A P ril H- a V£ ,
is I A letter from Milan, of the 20th ult. an
it I Bounces tlie compleat overthrow of the Vc-
I netian Aristocracy. of
I April f5. sic
y I Fifteen millions of the firft contributions -fu
jf I of the Pope, and 10 million's of gold and
re silver, with 6 millions of diamonds, have
:d been already paid to the army of Italy,— cc
ie I which has in consequence retired from No- t j,
id ligno to Macerata. All the troops have th
ie been withdrawn from the Papal territories,
r- I to march towards Tyrol.
n- A number of our «ountrymen have been
aifaffinateatn the Venetian territories.
1 ,\Ve understand that " Infpruck, thecapi- at
I tal of Tyrol, is occupied by our troops ;• —
d, I and authentic letters from Turin, of the sth fe
so inft. state, that intelligence has been receiv- tl
b- ed-there, of Gen. Buonaparte having enter- C!
•r, I ed Clagenfurth.
n- Gen. Buonaparte ha? wrote a letter to the
irs I Executive Diredloiy, from the' head-quar-
ur ters at Clagenfurth, that the army of Italy
he 1 has fought several battles with tlie Auftri- p;
;h I ans in the neighbourhood of Lavis, Tra- , £
men, and Claufen. That in these several "
he I anions the enemy has loft 8000 men in kil-
ed led and prisoners. "We have taken several
ir- I cannon and important magazines. We are 0
I masters of the bridge of Neumarc, and the ti
I towns of Brixen and Botzen. The Auftri- tl
in- I ans have been driven from the States of Ve- j 1
ts, I nice, from the higher and lower Carinthia, 11
of j ahd from thediftriftof Trieste.
, n { I April 16.
in. " Head-quarters, Clagenfurth, 12th
op I Germinal (April-l ).
in I " Citizens Dircßors, 1
lin " I have in my last dispatches given you 3
?a- I an account of the battles of Trevifa and ;
iu- I Lachinfa. On the Bth (March 28), the | {
eft I three divisions of the army, after having t
I passed the defiles which lead into Germany
of I from the Venetian States, encamped at Vil
ty, I lach, on the borders of the Drave. 1
on'l " Gen. Maffena put himfelf in movement <
ihe I with his divificn, on the 9th, and about a j ]
om I league from Clagenfurth he fell in with the (
■e ; I enemy's army, took two pieces of cannon, j ;
:e d I and 200 prisoners. We entered Clagen- : ;
jde I furth the fame night, and Prince Charles, ! |
I with the ruins of his army, is flying before |
ors j us.
hat I " Our head-qurrters are this day between j
ttle I Saint Veit and Friezaeh. Gen. Berna- \
the I dotte's division is at Laubach, the capital of j
fen I Carniola. I have dispatched the Polish 1
in I Gen. Zajouzech, at the head of a body oT \
itu- I cavalry, for the purpose of penetrating to ,
iof I Lienz, by the valley of the Drave, and ef- j
I fefting a jun£tion between me and General j
I Joubert, who-is at Brixen. It should take
5. I place about the present time,
de-1 " Since the beginning of the campaign '
lpt, I Prince Charles has loft near 20,'ocomen, — j
ico- I who are our prisoners. The inhabitants .of
bly, I Carniola and Carinthia have the most inex- !
the I preffible contempt for the Administrations
him los Vienna and Great Britain. The En
tens I gl'ih nation possesses so completely the ha
j I tred and execration of the Continent, that I
anal I believe if the war continues yet for some
ifol- I time, the English will be so universally de
the I tested, that no part of it whatever will grant
ore, I them a reception. . j
bly, " Here, then, are the enemies entirely j
:r a- I driven from tlie States of Venice ! The 1
and upper and lower Carniola, Carinthia, the
■upt diilridt of Triefttf, and all the Tyrol are
I fubje£ted to the arms of tlie Republic,
ofen "We have found near Villach, a maga
will zine of iron ft<o, cartridges, and powder,
ilifi- mines of lead, tin, iron, Bcc. We have also
j it, found near Clagenfurth manufactories of
uno 1 arms and of cloth,
izen Signed "BUONAPARTE."
Tri- j '
Another letter from Buonaparte, of the ,
■the 1 f ame date, announces three new engage
_,aw, I ments. That of Lavis, where Joubert and
van! I Baranguay d'Hilliers surrounded, on the
noy, I Ver.tofe, a body of the enemy on the
I Lavis, and, after an obftiiiate action, took
. I 40CO prisoners, killed 2000 men, and carri-
I ed off three pieces of cannon, and 2 ftan-
I dards. That of Tramin, on the 2d Ger- ]
auth I minal, in which Ger.. Ehimas took 6co pri- ;
em-1 foners, and two pieces of cannon. This -
had I success prevented "the nffns of Loudon's co
per- I lumn from arriving at Brtiffels. And tbat
rava-1 of Claufen, where we routed the enemy in
eem- I the moftr decisive manner, and took 1500
ility j prisoners. We are master« of Brixen and
j ac- I Botzen,' whete we have found majjazir.es of
1 ho-1 all kinds of military - • • •
B.»rrere, who should be with Coftot |
d'Herbois at Guiane, has lately published a &
pamphlet 0.1 Montesquieu, in the depart- b ,
njefct .of the upper Pyrenees, where he.re-, ti
iides. O
CLAGENFURTH, Apjil t. \
Buonaparte, on entering Carinthia, ad
dressed a. letter to the people of that conn- e
try, assuring them that he did not co ne t.u
ther as a conqueror, for to alter their ciu- '
toms or religion. He was the friend ga a.
. nations, and of every people.
He then goes on to tell them, ttiat the
French have availed thcmfclves of several f
opportunities to make peace with the Court j
of Vienna, by fending Gen. Clarke thither ; (
that it was his wifii to have spoken to the
Emperor in perlon, but was refufed, as his ,
minister was bribed by the gold of England 1
Ito continue the war. He ppomifes to the
CarintKiins, that if they will act like friends,
and furnifh supplies of provisions, that he .
Vvill Jiot lay any contributions on coun
try.
PARIS, April 19.
It is surprising that the dire<sWy has not yet
puU.fhcd the reply of tUe Archduke to Buona
parte's very handsome letter. The reply exists
notwithftjniiing.
The prodigies atchievedby Buonaparte and
his armv, fnl'ure an immediate peace with thi
, >.oufe of Aultria. ,
'l'htre are several rumours abroad on this
• fubjedl, fgme of which slate, that things are
' still more advanced, jnfomuch that the couriers
■ dispatched hy Buonaparte, and hich liave pas
s fedthroug!) Germany, have reached the direflo
; ry with the conditions of p»ace proposed by the
Emperor. It is added, that the diredory has
veiled Buonaparte rt ith full powers to conclude
a peace, All these details demand confiima
tion. •
It is slated as a certain fatft, that the niiniUer
of extereal relations has written to the comrr.u
fioners of the treil'ury, not to pay any of the
s .sums due to tlie Americans. Has Charles Dela-
J croi'x had the tkxteritj to break altogether an
alliance which Robespierre himfelf refpedted ?
e He is without doi.bt ignorant how much our
" commerce and maritime cities will fuller from
this measure, and what immense advantages
e this rupture will hold out to England.
; April 20.
The cadres of the army of Italy are for
n i2B,oopiHen .• there are however only j 13,000
efie&ive men,, from whom ate. to be deduiled
. the sick and defertcrs. There will thus remain
abeut 105, cop fighting men.
- xhe Aultrian armies have been so often de
h feaied, that no calculations can be made ef
r- their amount. Vi e have during the present
•. campaign made nearly 80, coo Aultrian prison
ers.
The Austrian army commanded by General
e Mack on the right banks of t the Rhine, is tlti
mated at 90,000 or 100,000 men at most.
y General Pichegru has received, from two de
i- partraenis at once, that of Jn ra, and that of
I- Upper Saone, a well-merited homage, and one
j which he would have-received from all France,
j if the !ofs of fuffrages had nat been dreaded :
. he was uaammouily chosen.
The direflory has tranfimtted.toMie council
" e of five huirdred the documents demanded rela
ie tire to tkc affaff,nation of citizen Sieyes. By
i- these documents it appears that the alTaffin was
e . instigated to the crime by want, »Hd by the pua
ilhmeut with which Sieye» had menaced him.
' . The electoral body of Faris closed its fitting
yelteiday.
Citizen Sieyes recovers fall from his wotinds.
■b FALMOUTH, April 25.
Arrived the Fox Excise cutter, Capt. K:*f
man, fram a ciuife, wkh an American ship of
>U 3°° ,ons hurthen, hden with coffer, cotton, &c.
1( J from New York to London, eapiared by a
\ small French privateer, 5 leagues from the Li
,e 1 eard ; and retaken by the Fax about 6 hours as-
S ter.
>y LONDON, April 25.
d" The Hamburgh Mail of yesterday does
not confirm the reports propagated on the
ot credit of a Gentlemen's arrival from
a | Holland, of the preliminaries of peace
he i being agreed on between the Emperor
n > ; and the French people: but all appearances
n " : indicate negociation. Our readers will fee
:s > ! the material facfts brought by the mail in
re the extracts we have made from the Journals.
The channel fleet, it is said, does not
en proceed to sea till after Parliament"has fanc
ia' tioned the request of the'failors.
°f i Dispatches were yesterday made, up at the
ifb ' Admirality for Admiriil Jervis, which were
of said to contain the Royal Proclamation, and
to the whole of the proceedings of the seamen
"f" ; at Portfmoutji.
j Yesterday Messrs. Boyd, Benfield, Cur
tis v Goldsmid, Thornton, and Salomone
; had a long interview with Mr. Pitt, to fet
gn tie the terms and payments of the hew Loan.
" j The following are the terms of the New
■ of . Loan.
- x * ' .14,50,0001 for England and Ireland
3ns For eveiy 100. fubferibed,
125 00 Three per cent. Consols,
ha- jo o o Three per cent. Reduced,
I I 20 00 Four per cent.
me 6 6 Long Annuity.
dc- ; 3,5.00,5000. for the Emperor, provided i
ant i ; s faudfcioned by Parliament.—Upon which
! for every 100. fubferibed,
fly J 226 10 o Imperial 3 per cents.
' lc j But should Parliament not sanction th
'h- Imperial Loan, then the Long Annuity 01
are the 14,500,000!. to be only 6s. instead o
6s. 6d. V
S a " The new Loan was last night done at
' er > per cent, premium.
dfo That the Bank of Vienna stops payment
after the Bank of England sets the example
' will occation little furprjfie. It proves, how<
j ver, that Mr. Pitt is as great a man as Bon
' syarte, and his mandate can produce th
the fame effect in London, as she tefror of th
g e_ French General at the head of a victorioi
a "d army can produce at Vienna,
the
the . ' COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED.
. ' Sitting of April I
. ATTEMPT TO ASSASSINATE SU YES.
irri- 7 Prefidcnt announced a message from tl
.an- Direflory. "It i»," fay« the raeffage, " with tl
Jer- most profound concern that the Executive Dire
pri. Tory informs the council of the alfallinttitn a
his - ,cnn pted on Sieyes, reprefenutive of the peep]
- ltJaas, however, the to state, that tl
c 0" ' aflalTm is apprclieiided, and djre£sian» ire given f
tbat bringing him immediately to trial.
rin BoifTy moved an address to the nirc.fcry, f
»Oo 'he produfiion of the documents relative to tl
1 aflaflination of Sieyes, and that they Ihculd gi
an . direction to the ccurmilCoD of iulpeft rs to trar
• 8 mit to the council the bulletin of the bc»hh»
their colleajnc.
Hardy fuii, tkart in his capacity of an officer at
h'alth, he was fortunate enough to perform the
firft cliii urgical operations i he was therefore ena
bled to furnifh th-- council with an i.ccurata defer ip
tion of the ft'ate in which he found tii colleague.
Three pistols appeared to have been fired at Sieyes.
Que bail had reached the abdomen, but having
thick drefr, it only grazed the (kin:
another ball entered hi» hand; the depth of the
v/ctind i» not yet tu'eemined. Tht ball was how
t ever tStra&cd in 50 or 60 pieces.
The narration wr s interrupted by leud and rei
terated bursts of indignation. Hardy defeended
from the tribune, and the council received several
accounts of treasonable predicts.
PLYMOUTH, April 16.
Arrived La Sutßfante «uop of war, of 14 guns,
[rem a.ciUj?e, with -the American brig William,
aamuclSnow, malier, from Charante, laden with
braady, bound to Hamburg, which she detained
three days iince.
Arrived alio the Neptune, of and froi/. .Pert'-
mouth, (America) Capt. Hooker, laden with him
l>er, lor-tlut, port
Ihe Hercules, Doyle, from the Weft-lndiei to
America, is taken by the Sauthoriax privateer of
14 guns and 105 ir.eri, after an afhtfn of two host*
and twenty minutes, and carried into St. Domingo.
IRUH PARLIAMENT.
HOUSEQF QOMMqNS.
Wednesday, April la.
The house, plirfuar.t to the order «f the day,
resolved into a committee of ways and mean?,
Mr. Mason' in the chair;
The chancellor of the; exchequer, after stating
to the committee the pressing exigency of the state,
fsrafuuply of money to prepare for the necessary
means of public defence, and the inadequacy of
the steps which he had already taken under the
direction of the house for procuring 1 that supply,
f,iid it was become sbfoiut'.ly requisite on the |>re
-1 lent occaflon to take fopie extraordin»ry step for
that piypofe. He vvas ready to admit the meafurc
■ he was about to propose was such a one as he
Ihould have wiihed, if pofiible, to avoid, but it
> wa» his misfortune to be oblgcd to resort to very
ineligible the duty of providing for
- th? public exigency; he therefore moved that a sum
noi exceeding loo.oaej. be borrowed 011 th*. fal
lowing terms, viz. for every 6jl to give the lend
. er a debenture for 1001 bearing fntercft at 5 per
[ cent.
„ Mr. Vandeleur exprjfled the deepest concern,
, that, «:er the zealous desire which had boea ex
-1 prelfed by fevera' of the merfibers of that house,
that the right lion, baronet (hould give them an
4 opportunity of tsftifying their ardor in contribut
ing to the defence of their country, and, astir the
s rjght hon. baronet had complied with the delire,
by eltablifhing an open loan, at a very high inter
cit, that nune of the men of property in tlut house
r or in the country, had cctic forward with a finglu
' (billing to aid the government in defending that
property. Lamenting this circumstance of public .
1 apathy on the part of men who were Co deeply
concerned in the defence of the country, he mull
* assent to the meal'ure now proposed by the right
f hon. baronet, ruinous as it was in its nature and
t tendency. This was a branch' of a system which
i- had already ruined England, and was now extend
ed hither for the ruin of Ireland. It was one of
il the points of that ruinous war irr which we had
1- been involved by the tfrltilh ministers; a war com
menced and carried on in 4ire& violation to every
■„ principle of justice and policy { but it was a mea
,f sure which, in the prefenfftatemf public exigency,
e he saw was inevitable, and therefore could net op -
pofcit.
! The chancellor of the exchequer again profefTed
hisrelu&ance in adopting the measure, but declar
ed he had not rcforted so it until every orher ex
ertion had failed.
- Mr. Bagwell said, he had converted with fnme
y monied men on the subject of a loan to govern
ls ment, and especially one, who was an agent to
'* moll of the absentees, and; who had 16,0C01. to
lend, and the principle mentioned by him as the
5 bed inducement, would be transferable debentures,
at 6 per cent, with a bonus of 3 per cent.
s- The chancellor of thp exchequer disproved this
mode.
f Mr. iYandeleur condemned the condn<S of tlie
>f British miniifer in not aiding by his influence the
c. negociation of thii loan in England for the ule of
a Ireland
,i- The chancellor of the exchequer and Mr. Pelhr.m
f. defended she conduit of the Britilh minister, and
imputed the failure of that negociition in not
raeching its intended extent of joo,oool. to the
rofiftance of the governors and dirc&ors of the
:> ' S batik of England.
le After some further conversation, the motion
m palled in the afirmative.
ce The house being resumed, after some routine
or business, adjourned.
es PORTSMOUTH
ec Sunday Night,—Eight O'clock,
; n Every thing is happily fettled ! the Sea
ls men are fatisfied ! The.fleet fails immediate
ct T- .
c _ j The dispatches which were brought down
1 by -Mr. Powell, 'in the extraordinary short
; period offeven Tiours, were instantly carried
re 1 to the Port Admiral, who . sent for Lord
;lc j I Bridport, Admirals Gardner, Pole, and Col
en P°y s » an d after consulting a long time toge
ther, about eleven they proceeded on board
lr . the Royal George, where Lord Bridport's
ne flag had been hoisted. a signal was
L .t. immediately made for all the Captains who
in> having gone on board the Admiral's Ihip,
ew the tenor of the dispatches was made known.
Every Captain then returned to his own (hip,
I{ j_ and cijmmunicated to the crews the contents
of the dispatches from Windsor. The sea
men unanimously declared they could giye
no answer till the proposals were submitted
to Cdurt of Delegates. On aflembling the
Court, it was found that Joyce and Glynn,
[; t two of the delegrtes, were, on (liore. TKey
would not proceed without them.
A boat was sent on (hore, and they were
brought on board in as itnich form as if they
the had been two officers. Tlie Court of Dek
on gates being completed, proceeded to bufi
of ness. The propotils were difcu{Ted,&iMially
agreed upon atjialf past fir.. The signal of
t j approbation being three cheers, was firft
given .by the Qu**n Charlotte, end then
:nt, w>cnt through the whole' fleet*every ship giv
sle, ' n g confeut.
wt . Captain Holloway, of the Duke, firft
on _ came on (hore about seven o'clock, to an
the nounce thehappy tidings to the thousands of
t hg anxious fpeftators waiting the result on the
ous platform. ' Wll the-boats from the other
•ihips-followed, and the" feamtn in each,
on landing,-declared the business happiiy
fettled. The fecune/l are fatiafied ! theyhave
unanimously agreed to resume their duty,
,1 e By the Corrm'r/Jtuntri fur executing tht offii'e of
1 the Lord liigb Admiral of Great 13rita.ii and
irec- Ireland, c.
at " Hav'i.g taken into our cojifideration a pa
per containing several representations from
j for the seamen of his Majesty's ships at Spit
head, refpefting an advance of their wages,
, fqr and being deiirous of granting them every
> the r fq U eft that can with any degree of reason
-anf com P^ with, we have rcfolved to rc
h 'vf commend it to his Majeftv that an addition
of Five Shillings and Sixpence per monthbe made to'the wages of p<jttyoSc*i and ou
seamen belonging to his Majolty's f°'
which will mnie the of able sea r.en of
#neihilltng per day, dear of all deductions ; t j,
an addition of Four Shillings and Sixpence „f
per month "to. the wages' of ordinary seamen ; rlx
and aii addition of Threj: Shillings and Six off
pence to the wages of landmen : And that J j
none of the allowance made to the marines e *'
whetl on shore shall be flapped, on the:r be-
ing embarked oh board any of his Majesty's ~
ships. We have alfe rcfolvcd, that all tea- ib<
fcnen, marines, and others, serving in his Ma- ca{
jefty's ships, shall have the full allowance of eir
prorifions, without any dediHrtioris ii* leak- thl
age or v.-afte : and that .until proper stepS, m(
can be taken For carrying this into effeft, — m ,
short allowance money shall be paid to the 1 j
men in lieu of the deduction heretofore rh
made : Aad that all men wounded in action th
(hall receive their full pay until their wounds ?*'
fliall be healed, or until being declared incu-
rable they shall receive a peufion from the (h
Chest at Chatham, or shall be admitted into r,
the royal hospital at Greenwich. And a |
you? lord (hip is hereby required and direst- cf
ed to communicate this our determination ori
to the Capt. of each of his Majesty's (hips
under your orders, directing him to make it
known to the ship's company under his com-
' man'd, and to inform them that, should they t0
be ipfenfible to the very liberal offers now ha
made to tljem,' and! persist in their present ha
disobedience, they must no longer expeft to or
enjoy those benefits to which, by their for
itvcr good conduft, they were entitled : t '_ r
That in such a cafe aU the men now on
board the fleet at Spithead shall be incapa
ble of receiving any smart-money or pensions
from the Chest at Chatham, or of being ad- fn
luitted at any time, into the royal hospital of
at Greenwich ; and that they must be an- r0
fwCiable forthe dreadfulconfequences which
will necessarily their continuing to
tfanfgrefs the rules of the service, in open "
violation of the laws of their country. T
On the other hand, he is to inform them,
that we promise the most perieft forgivenefs
of ail that has trespassed on this oceafion, to-,
every ship's company, who, within one hour t!
after the communication to them of the K
; above-mentioned resolutions, shall return to fr
their duty in every particular, and shall cease pi
to-hold further intercourse with any men w
who continue in a state of disobedience and p,
mutiny. Given under our hands at Ports- e<
mouth, the 20th of April, 1797* tc
SPENCER ARDEN. tC
W.YOUNG. I
To the Right Hon. Lord t
Bridport, K- B. Admi- 1)
ral of the White, Com- o:
mander in Chief of a
squadron of his Majesty's .w g
ships to be employed in '3
the Channel, Sound- tl
ing'a, &c. f
By the command of Itl
their lordships, Signed, \»
W. MARSDEN. ti
[Here follows the King's Proclamation f ;
of pardon, which want of room obliges us t;
to defer 'till to-morrow.] 11
By this day's Mail. d
a
LIVERPOOL, May 6.
We flop the press to insert the following im- A
portant extrad of a letter just received from a
Hull. ♦ . c
" A neutral vessel from Hamburgh is jail ar-
rived here with the intelligence of accounts, and
confi tned papers having reached Hamburgh last
Thurfilav, of the EMPEROR having conclud
ed a ftparaie PEACE. J
FROM THE LONDOI-J GAZETTE.
Downing Street, May z, 1797-
A letter of which the following is an cxtrafl
has b?cn received from Col. Crauford, by the
Right Hon. Lord Grenville, his Majefly's
principal secretary of state, for toreign as- 1
fairs, dated Frankfort, A;.ril »9, 1797- :
" 1 have the honcr to inform your
that Gen. Iloche yesterday attacked, with very }
superior numbers, Wid defeated an Auftrm corps
commanded by Gen. Kray, which formed a ;
part of the army qf the Lower Rhine, under
orders of Gen. YVtrneck, and was ftatiohed '
at Thunders, on the road leading from Neawi- ■
cd to llackenburg. In confequencr of that cir
cumstance, Gsn. Weineck with the principal
part of his army near Crobach, between Hack
en'Ourgh and Altenkirchen, has determined to
retreat."
VIENNA, April Ij.
Accounts hav« been received this day of the
eaemv having been obliged to abandon the town
and port cf Fiume, with c.nftdcrable loss, on
tine 10th inft.
April 16.
Accounts were received here this day from
Major Gen. Baron Lau *ihn, dated at Trent,
the' 13th inft. Bating that he had driven the ene
my from Roveredo,Torbala and Riva, and had
occupied those places. Oa this occaf.on he took
from the enemy several magazines ( amongtt
which wasone of powder) ii pieces ot cannon
and 4C9 prisoners.
ARMY OF THE RHINE.
" " Head-qarters at Bilchof hcin,
' " April 4».
The Commander in Chief, t. the Executive
Diredlory.
" Citiaens Direflor#,
"Jiake advantage of the conveyance of ad
iutant cei«ral Le Clerc, of the armv of Italy
in order to give you a very succinCt Sccotint ot
our operation, the jcth inft.
" A thoiifar.d obstacles prevented ustrom be
rinning till 6 in the morning.—Though falfe
attacks h>d been heard for two hours, so tltat
we were not indebted foe our fuccefi to a furpri
falof the enemy, but t j our courage. Generals
' Dehefrn, Vandame, Davouet, and Jordis ; adju
tant frnerals Deind'nt and Endclet corcroanded
the a*. a< ki made by 31ft, jooth.and 17th demi
brigades, a bacalion of th» 76th, two of the
109 th, and two of the t»th light infantry.
These tf.iops landed in turn on the right bank,
difembjrking Isct>inen : these ought to have
been jcco, bTit of 60 Iwati that we were to
have had, only 15 were able to leacb us.
»*fhe enemy ihade unheard of attempts f*»
deffcroy us while on the Rhine. Afterihe most
•bUmate engagement, oar Ui<g#s be>n| fixed,
art', the 1 :£erved corps, having palled the
Rhine, we began to afl efftrdivefy. By yefKr
day noon the r»;ciy were coroplettly ronlM."
We drove aifd d fj erfed them to'C*ge«'o«ch, in'
the vallev of P'otzjy. two leagues from Offrti
- tui£. KcMtas breß rcta'.tu, aud we now fmu
ourfclvia more ajvantagejufly fiti-ited tlian be
fore th- fiegeof that !lJ s
" The result of :iiis vifiory are fevtn stands
of colors, more than 20" pieces of cannon, all /.
the bajgage s the military cheft.Jnd the papers leL
of the general flalT of the army ;• three or four c 0:
tlioiifasj prifoneri, one ot-whtiu is a general W1
officer, and several of them ftaff officers, and of (ill
, a luperior rank. The loss of (lie enemy in kill- pu
e»! and wounded is enormous.
" The troops performed prodigies of valor, j-
A fquadronof the 9th regiment of hufTart, the .
17th and 4th of dragoons, the »d cf cavalry, u
ihe companies of light artilltrry, commanded by
captains Fort and Gras,-who in fuceefiion dis
embarked in the train of the infantry, deferye
the highest praise,
"It is iropofiible to give yon at thistnomt-t
more circumstantial details of djjs, file b'oWeftj
moll dangerovVoperation I hjve fcver witneflVd ;
1 shall fend thmn by the fir't courier*; I shall
then be able particularly to inferm you ?f
the corps and <?f the foldiets who have diftin- of
gifted therofelves. - „ hij
' I'hin day, Gen. D,i»out, at the head of 1 j n
strong body, is marching to gain the head cf c jj
the 'vallty of Kintzig, and the adjutant general on
Rudeles, towards the Kembis. WehavctakeH .
a position above Lachereg, after an engagement
cf the advanced polls where tb? enemy opposed ;
only a feeble refiitance.
" The wounds of several of the general offie-t eve
ers rendering a greater degree of exertion necef- ! .
fary on the part of others, I could not write to
•ycufooner. Yob (hall receive intcrefting ac- at ,
count'of the different engagements which we 1
have fought. Four general officers ta ;
have been wounded, one of whom is dead and i ri -
one a prisoner. This is an unequivocal proof, £ £r
oft the (laughter which the enemy has been wil- i r j
ling to fuffer far the fake of preventing our ef-j Mi
tablifliing curfelves on the right bank of the Lii
Rhine. (Signed) ; 1
MOiIEAU." 1 qu;
P. S. A courier u'hich I this moment received the
from Gen. Buonaparte, announces the signing ] set
of the Preliminaries of Peace with the Empe
ror tw
ha'
JIRMr of the S4MB RE and MEUSE *?'
.
" Head Quarters at Herborn, April '2l ■ j bei
The commanner in chief of the Sambre and
Meufe, to the Executive Directory.
" Citizens Directors,
" I yesterday morning sent you word,
that the left body of the army was going to
Klein Neifter, in order to drive the enemy
from the important position which it occu
pied ; but as the latter declined engaging, "
we could only have an »ffair of the advanced
ports, which Gen. Ney and Soult command
ed, with that valor which they are known
to possess. These officers so contrived, as «
to arrive with the enemy at the defile of the _
Dile, by which the enemy were retiring by
Herborn to Wetzlaer, pushed them vigorous
ly and took from them 500 prisoners, two J";
of whom are officers. [c(
" The aid-de-camp,Soult, brother of the
general of that r.ame, took 320 of them with f°
'3O buffers, and threw the whole column of j 'jj
the enemy's infantry into the greatest con- f 0
f.ifion. Six squadrons of dragoons, who at
the battle of Altenkirchen were covered
with glory, again conduced themselves in ; < f *
the molt distinguished manner ; and the hus
sars as usual, did perfectly well. Two bat- .
talions of the 60th, willing to take a part
in the engagement, followed the cavalry,
who were on trot a league and a half. In
deed too much cannot be said in praise of
all these brave troops.
" The enemy are said to be rc-united at .
Wetzlaer and Giefen ; Grenier is, however " <
already on their left flank. We hope to "
dillodge them this day from their position,
however formidable it may be. t j
(Signed) "L. vHOCHE." k
VARMY OF ITALY. d
Buonoparte, commander in chief of the ar-
my in Italy, to the Executive Direftory. J'
" Head-quarters at Jundenberg, (
Bth April, 1797. e
" Citizens Directors, a
« J have the honor to transmit to you the j.
letter which I wrote prince Charles, and his f
answer. -v
" You willl find hereunto annexed the t
note which has been sent by general Belle- f
garde and Morveldt ; the answer which I I
1 have given them ; and finally the conditions '
I of the suspension of arms which we have con- t
- eluded. You will remark, by the line of t
■ demarkation, that we find ourselves in pof- I
1 session of Gratz, Bruck, and Rofenmanu, J
' places of which we were not before in pof- <
' session. My intention is, besides, to give •
the army two or three days reft, so that this
fufpenfusi very little deranges the military 1
: operations. '
1 (Signed) "BUNOPARTE."
1 " Jundenberg, April 7. _
" His majesty the emperor and king,
having nothing so much at heart as what can
n conduce to the repose of Europe, and to the
termination of a war which devastates the
d two nations, has, in consequence of the over
k ture which was made to his royal highness
by your letter from Clagenfurth, sent in to
" you to come to some on an
objeft of so great importaece.
" After the conversation which we have
1, held with you, and persuaded of the good
will and of the intentions of the two powers,
e to finifli, with the utmost promptitnde pof
' fible, this disastrous war,, his royal highness
.' desires a suspension of hoftrh'ties for io days,
v in order to be able with more celerity to
e f attain this defirabie objeft, and in order that
all the delays and obstacles that thecontinua
e- tion of hostilities would throw in the way
fe c f negociation be done and that every
a< thing may occur towards the re-eftablifh
-7" ment of peace between the two nations.
' (Signed)
eJ The Count de BELLEGARDE,
Lieutenant General,
he MORVELDT, Major General.
T> A true copy, *
k. BUONOPARTE.
Head-quarters, Jundenberg,
April Bth, 1797.
f,, To the generals Bellegarde and Morveldt.
ell " Gentlemen,
:d, «< In tfie military situation of the two ar
:t!t' mies, a suspension of hostilities is quite ad
-1 r" • verse to the French army'. but if it can pave
• the way to the peace so much desired, and
l' 1 . so ufeful to the two countries, I consent
ind without difficulty to your request.
" The Frencii republic has often (hewn to
his majesty her to put an end to this j br,
cruel IkUghter. She perfifls in the fame jRi
feutiments, and I have no doubt, after the |
confifeace which I had the honor of liaving \fot
with ypu, that In a few days peace will be the
filially rc-eftablifhed between the French re- tro
public and his imperial majeftv. on
" I beg of you to give me credit for the the
sentiments of esteem, and di!linguiQied con- to
fideration with which I jftn, gentlemen,
Your's, 1
(Signed) "BUONAPARTE." tifi
(A true copy). hej
" BUONAPAIITE." mo
■ — , bee
CONDITION of.the CESSATION OF an,
HOSTILITIES. °f
General Buonaparte; commander in chief p a >
of the French army in Italy, and his royal Be,
highness the archduke Charles, commander d'tt,
in chief of the imperial army, wifliing to fa- Po
cilitate the negociations for peace, which are A"'
on the point of .being opened, agree as sol- Nt
lows : Bl
Art. I There fliall be a fufpenfioß of arms be- na :
tween the French and imperial armies from this [)Qt
evening", the 7th «f April, to the 13th of April.
Art. 11. The French army fljall keep the follow
ingline: the advanced polls on the right wing of J'°
the army (hall remain in the position in which they tre,
at present are, between Fiume atid Triellc—'the hin
line (hall be extended to comprehend TrrfT.-n, Lit- f,j s
tai, Wihdeftfeiftritz, Marpurg, Chienhoufen, the
right bank of the Muhr, LeoUan, Trafaxax.Man- ,
tern, the roadfrom Mantern as far as Rorter.nian, -
Irdmgi Valley of Rems, as far as Rafubdt, it. ton
Michael, Spital, the Valley of La Drave and phi
Lintz. tgp
111. The suspension of arms fliall take place e- p (
qually in the Tyrol, aqd the geperaTs cemmanding '
the French and im]ierial troops in that part, ftiall
fettle together the posts that they are to occupy.
Hcltiiities illaii not commence in the Tyrol until Li
twenty hours afier tlje commander in chief {hull
have agreed to it: or, at least, n till twenty- yy
four ifours alter the generals comminding the „
French and imperial troops in the Tyrol, lhallhave 1'
been reciprocally'apprifed of it. urr,
Done at Junclenberg, 7th April, 1797. felt
(Signed) v MORVF.LT, Major Gen, n }t
Count de BELLEGAUDE, Lieutenant Q t
Genersl in the ftrvire of the Emperer. >
BUONAPARTE, Commander in chief °
of the army of the French Republic.
(A true cony)
(Signed) BUONAPARTE. Jhi
■CBnnn>iinni«iLiiii»i«i<w<MniiMMiii»inii no
%i)t csa3Ctte* M
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDA Y EVENING, JUNE 13. y
CONGRESS.
In the House of Reprcfcntativ«, yesterday, the
bill refpe£ling fortifications wai again under consider
ation ; after making fomeamendments, thecomroit
tee role, and had leave to fit again.
A meffagc from the President, communica' iRg in
formation of feriou* obftaclc* thrown in the way of G
the execution of our treaty with Spain, by the Span
ilh governor of Weft Florida, wa* received just be- .
fore the House adjourned, c .r J°
_ fe
Major Bur.Row*'* Letter refpefting certain tran- en
. fa£lion» between him and Mr. Hunt, (hall be inserted. to
to-morrow.
In the publication of Mr. HAttPirß's Speech, in our j 5 *
paper of Saturday, that pirt of the following pas
/age which it included in UracJtcUr was by miftakc ! g:
omitted. cr
''What would conftitute'a siege or blockade was
a question of the law of nations; hut the existence
of the ficge or blockade must in tbe firft instance
J)C notified to neutrals by the party forming it. It j
V ould be known in no other njanner: for the neu- c;
trals must be unacquainted with the circumstances, ] r
and the besieged party would not teftify against
themselves. Indeed access could not be had to
them, and of course their opinion could not be i
known. Tbe besiegers nnuft therefore make the
declaration in the firft instance, snd neutrals must b
believe it. Whether faift? or true, becomes after- v
wards a question in the courts of admiralty [or b»-
tween the governments; but for neutrals to dit
pute it in the firft instance, at the mouths of their
eapnon, would bean act of hostility : therefore if b
a French squadron ftiould place itfelf before an a:
, English port in the Weft-Indies, and declare it in a £
state of blockade, our armed ships must be in- n
' ftrrnitcd to abstain from any attempt to enter. E- .
ven if half dozen French privateers were to fta-
I tion themselves off Portsmouth, andj declare it in a t.
. state of blockade, our Ihrps must not dispute the o
[ point, or attempt to go in by . force, If they do f
not think it blockaded they may attempt to enter
i peaceably if they fleafe, and when taken, diipute
" the point in the courts of admiralty, or leave it to c
f the two governments, to be fettled by ncgociation ; r
. but they must be prevented, from clearing out {
for such ports with arms, and forbidden under (
' strong penalties to attempt to enter by forte.
Shoukl they make such attempts it i« at their own
c ;ifk, and not an a& of the government.
S *So also as to places declared to be in a state of t
j . rebellion There arc several ports in Weft- i
' Indies] which the French authority there has d«clar- ,
ed to be in this state.* ' |
GAZETTE MARINE LIST. !
n - 1
e NEW-YORK, June 10.
e HORRID!
While Capt. Pratt lay at Carthagena, the
"s fehooner Polly and Jenny, Capt. Parsons, of
o 14 guns, from Jamaica, was brought in there
n —which after an engagement as two hours
with'two Spanijh privateers, one oj 16, the
c other of 10 guns, to, the leeward of Cartha
>d gena, was boarded, the captain, firjl and fe
s, cond lieutenants, surgeon, and two of the peo
f- pie, murdered tn the cabin I The captain was
fs hauled upon deck, and his head chopped off'.
8, Those who were not Englilhmen on board
to escaped this treatment. This was told eM't.
at Pratt by the remainder of the Polly and jew
a- ny's crew
iy Thursday arrived here the fchoontr Little
ry John, Capt. King, from Port-au-Prince—
h- IJ days from Cape Ntchola Mole. Captain
I King informs us, that in the Bite of Leogane,
; off the Platform, he saw an aQion between an
E, Engltfh brig of fourteen fix pounders and for
ty-Jive men, and a republican fehooner, which
was said carried sixteen guns and nifty-five
men, and after exchanging a few broadjides,
the fchoontr attempted to board the brig,. but
"g, receiving some well direded Jhot from the brig, I
she bore away. A French three majlfd lugger \
it. was {then, a l'fttle to windward, but did not j
come to the fchoomers ajfiflance, which was ofv
f.r- ing to an English letter of marque heaving' in
id- fighty and giving chace to the Jchooner. The
ive brig bad one man killed and a number wounded,
nd and hulled by several Jhot. Zfth May, in
:nt Crooked IJland Pajage, parted company with
the Jhip Manilla, and brig Efpcranfa, bound
V to New-York ; Jhip GodJcfs of Plenty, end w
' trig Commerce, bound to Philadelphia ; br>* of
I Ruth, for Newport. Qfi
) Capt. King informs, that a few Jays he- as
I fore he left Port-au-Prince, a convoy arrived
there from thi Windward J/laftds ; that the, tl>
troops there from Port-au-Prince had landed _ lo
on t]jt Plant at ions, ' about 6 miles down re!
the Bite,' the <w(/t fide, and were preparing. Jit
to form a fori bebmging to the Republic. . tit
BOSTON, Jaue 9. as
This day arrived Jhip Tefemachvt, Pren- j- th
lift-, 30 days from Liverpool. Sailed the day. iqu
before, snow Atlantic, Abrahams vf Ports- j pe
mouth for Boflon ; (hip Commerce, of Kenne- ]th
beck for dittosjhip Hettybf fane, Tinner, of rai
and for Portsmouth ; Jhip Minerva, Hollrook, no
of Wifcajfct for New Tori. Sailed in com- Itii
pany, Jhip Commerce, Wood of Nc<X>Yorkfor eri
Baltimore ; Jhip Hunter, of Wajhir.gton, for kr
ditto ; brig Minerva, Robinson of and for on
Portlond. Arrived 8 days Ixfore capt. P. de
failed, Jhip Difpdtcb, Carpenter of and from all
New York, 30 days'; Jhip JoJiah Collins, ari
Blair, of and from Wilmington, laden 'With foi
naval Jlores ; capt. Blair informed that he war be
boarded, Cape Clear bearing E. N. E. d'Jlant
12 leagues, by a French privateer of i 8 guns cit
from Breft —after examining his. papers -and
treating him wich much pofitenefs, difm'Jfed ae<
him, observing that if he carried him into Brejl, m:
his cargo would not fell for enough to pay him dii
the freight. To fail from Liverpool in a few toi
days, Jhip Accepted Mdfon, Delano, for Bos- cit
ton ; Jhip Bald Eagle, Cajfady, for Philadel- pr:
phia >• Jhip Atalanta, Hollrook, for Newycrh: rci
<Spoke, May 15, lat. 49, 20, /. 24, 30,Jhip- til.
Fame, Stiles, of and from Baltimore bound to ■an
Amjlercfam, 47 days out, all well. m '
Bejides the above, we have copied from the du
Liverpool papers the following :—A)~rive4t W
the Venus, R. Shrill, from Maffvchufctti ; pn
Montezuma, Howard, from Virginia ; the I
Speedwell, Crawford, from Savannah ; Tri- ed
umph, Hazard, from South Carolina. Vef- pe
fels advertified to fail for America I—-Jhipl—-Jhip Eu- pr
nice, Seal, for Philadelphia, in May ; brig ini
George, Howland, for ditto ; Jhip 7 cung Ea
gle, Perkins, for New Tork ; Jhip London bi
packet, Huie, for Baltimore ; brig Betsey,
M'Crey, for Charleflon, to fail in a Jew daysj gi
Jhip Thomas, Griffith, for Norfolk ; Jlj'tp Ju- tu
no, Bird, for Cily Point and Norfolk. cc
ed
MASSACHUSETTS LEGISLATURE ?)
BOSTON, June 7.
Yesterday, precisely at 12 .o'clock, agree- "J
ably,to previous notice, his Excellency 111
the Governor met the Legislature, and w
delivered the following
SPEECH: P :
Gentlemen of the Senate, and j".
Gentlemen of the House of Reprefentalives— b .'
TO live under# free government, and en- "
joy its bleflings. is a privilege which but b<
few people among the nations of the earth P 1
. enjoy, and it must be a pleasing reflection
L to those who are called to administer it, that
they are carrying into effeft the will <lf the tc
people, as it is exprefled by their laws— w
[ laws which are the result of the calm invefd- w
s gation and deliberate judgment of the Le- c<
giflative Body chosen by the People them
l selves. On this ground, therefore, our Gov- 1
j ernment has the strongest claim to the as- "
t fe&ion and support of all its citizens, who
-1 cannot fail of receiving an adequate return, r<
■» in that protection and security which it will "
1 afford, if its principles are adhered to, and £
I the laws faithfully and impartially adminif- 11
e tered. And the obligation, perhaps, will a
I be strengthened, when it is considered, that j n
■ while the constitution and laws of tbe Com-! c
" monwealth,'proteft and defend the rights of ; t!
~ the citizens, our Federal Government com- | a
f bines the interest of the United States, and , 11
n affords additional security to all. It is my j
a firm opinion, and I believe the opinion ] P
!" my fellow citizens in general, that the Fe- ! c
j" deral constitution, conne£ted with those of "
a the different states, has hid the foundation J
ic of that security and happiness which we had
0 fondly anticipated ; as a proof of this we
r need only compare the circumftaaces of our _
country previous to its adoption with its un
'; rivalled prosperity since : This also, will af
jt ford fatisfaftory evidence of its having been
cr executed with fidelity and ability, by that
:e " beloved and distinguished fellow-citizen, -
" who, after a life of ufefulnefs to his coun
of try, has withdrawn from the cares and ar.x-,
I- ieties 'of office, to the (hade of retirement ;
■ r " where, I trust, he will continue to enjoy the '
bleflings of his countrymen. —We deeply re- !
gret the loss—but feelareliefin the appoint
ment of his successor, whose known integri- <
ty, ability and patriotism leave no room to
doubt that the duties of the Executive De
partment of the Federal government will con
he tinue to be ably and faithfully performed.
of The afpeft of our affairs, relating to fo
•re reign nations is far from being agreeable—
rs no one can reflect on the unjuftifiable depre
he dations committed on our commerce from
1a- time to time, without the greatest concern.
fe- I know no cause for the offence that feerns
to- to have beeen uken, but that of our exer
pas cifing the rights of a neutral independent na
f! tion, Undoubtedly, peace and friendfh'ip
rd with all the world, ought to be the motto
M. inferibed on the American Eagle ; but at
ru- the fame time, it ought to be remembered
that the citizens of the United States, will
ttle never peaceably surrender to any power on
earth, their rights as an independent nation.
iin They cannot but feel very sensibly the in
ne, juries committed on their commercemore
an especially those proceeding from'a great na
on- tion, whose friendfhip they highly valued,
ieh and whose happiness they have not ceased to
Ive wish for.
les, The President of the United States in his
but late address to Congress, has pointed out the
rig, mifunderfUnding that unhappily exills bet
ger ween the government of France and that of
not the United States, and has his in- j
)>w- tention to institute fre(h attempts at ncgoci
■ ation, and thereby promote, if possible, an
The accommodation upon honorable terms. It
led, is my most fervent wilh, and in which every
, in friend of his'country will join me, that thole
vith overtures may be attended with success, and
und that the magaanimity of the French pat", jo
will not f:iflfer them to attempt to deprive ii!
of the law of nati
ons, the Umted States are clearly intitled td
as an independent governmerlf.
But in any event; I am perfr.sded thx*.
the citizens.of America will not be willing
to fubjecl themselves to the evils that mr.V
rc fult froiji being a di vided people J but with
«o4,u.ir«!.inuty,-.fi»pj>ort in this Cri
tical fituatisii of our afEiirs, such meafares
; a 6 may be. adopted -by the g?>vcmnieut of
(•the United State?, to whole judgment,
queftionb o£ such national importance pro
perly belong. . 1 hare ;t-full confidence, that
the people will maintain their national cha
rafter, and convince the world that they can
not be separated from their nation.4 govern
ment, ly the arts cr influence, of any Gov
ernment or people whatever-! they well
know, that under Go/i, they mull depend
on themselves for their liberties and indepen
dence, and I hope it will be ilnde; Hood by
all mankind, that while American citizens
are just and liberal in their traufa&ions with
foreign governments, the)- are -determined tt>
be firm in the support of th«y own.
There-. is gne duty, iudilpenfuble on all
citizens—it is the price of their protection
.—I mean a cheerful fubmiflion to the lawt,
accompanied with a readiness tc aid the civil
magiflrate in the constitutional and legal
discharge of Lis duty.—This idsa cannot be
too strongly imprefTed on the mind of everv
citizen, lor it appears to me, one of the -
principal pillars on which our free republic
rests. To unite in ftfpport of the lSws, and
.thereby dSFufe the hiefiings of peace, ordir
and. good government throughout thecom
. munit,}' mtift be the interest/ as well as the
duty of all-; arid as the only tnethod by \Vhieli
we can receive the full benefit of our free
find' happy political ififtitutions. It will not
I presume, in this cnlightenctj age, be deni
ed that the fnrcft method of securing and
perpetuating the liberties of a people, is by.
promoting knowledge, religion, virtue and
industry among them.-
The triumph of arm* may lead to Fame,
but these alone can give liability to Empires.
Under the patronage of wife and able le.-
giflators, the Ufeful, arts, sciences, agricul
ture, commerce and improvements of our
country, cannot fail of being greatly extend
ed and liberally encouraged. 1 (hall be hap
py, gentlemen to co-operate with you in ef
tablifhin'g such measures, as (hall be thought
bell adapted, to promote these valuable de
ligns, as well as in any other, that may be
thought necelTary to encreafe the public
welfare.
While we, gentlemen, in our several de
partments, may be exerciiing our thoughts
and exerting our bell abilities to establish the
blefiings of peace and promote the prospe
rity of our country, I hope we never shall
be unmindful of our dependence on the Su
preme Governor of theUniverfe, whofefig
nal interpositions, in behalf of the United
States, must have been observed and ought
to b»acknowledged by all. Let gratitude
warm onr hearts for his favours, and in the
way? of well doing we willyet hopefor their
continuance.
Permit me, Gentlemen, only to add, that
I entertain a moll lively sense of the honor
done me by the people, in placing me in
, the chair of Government, and that the best
return I can possibly make, will be to pro--
[ mote their happiness in the way which the
[ Constitution and laws point out; and to as
sure them, that feeling a sincere disposition,
1 as far as lies within my department to pro
t mote their prosperity, I (hall invariably
consider virtue, attachment to the conflitu
f tion of our country, and the love of order
. as among the firft qualifications in incivil and
j military appointments.
, I shall be ready at all times, to give every
f possible dispatch to the public business, and
. | communicate by message all such matters as
f may be proper for the confederation of the
r, Legislative Body.
INCREASE SUMNER.
: Lailson's Circus,
Xhe Public are rcfpeilfully informed that
n The Performances at the NEW CIRCUS,
1 , THIS EVENING, June 13,
Will begin by a Giarid Parade of Equestrian
l - Performers of both sexes/and
L ", A grand display of Horsemanship,
» fiv McfTrs. Langley, German, C. Vandevelde,
ie ' C;>r/e, Sully, (the Clown ?nd Lailfon.
Mr. SaLt.Y, in the' charadier ot Clown, will
" perform a variety of Comic Feats.
Mr. Lancley wilt leap over feveial bars and ta
ftlea of a very great height, in a single tour round the
:o Circus.
Mr. Herman will go with his head on the saddle
and his feet in
Mr. LaXlspn wit! perform several curious and sf
toriilhing exercises, which he will not undertake to
3- enumerate, in order to surprize ihe iV& ators •
aim being to plea f e :—and .nothing shall be neglt&cd
to render the exercises worthy the attention of the
e * atnat-uts of this new art.
ID The evening's entertainment to conclude (for the fe
coijd time*) by a graud, heroical, hiftoiical panto
mime, in <oree a£U, called
Pierre de Proveoce,
• a ] And the BEAUTIFUL MAGUEI.QNE.
jp To be fold,
Thetirfteof a ftoufheartjr young NEGRO MAN.
who has up%vvds of fotfr year* to serve. Enquire
ed at No. 75, Dock-ftcect.
ill June 13. j _ . & tw
on For fa-le,
,n# Jr
a . i>atr of very handjome
re Bay Horles,
ia- Near Cxtcen hands high, well broke, and ®er-
Tcilly gentle. £n<juire at Mr. KeUci. s liabi'«.3,
' Churoh-aliejr.
/Hft, for Salr,
t • A Chariot and plated Harness.
he T"°c ty .. d'°P
Buih Hill.
Tfc e public ,re mod itflKftfi'lly i»fprmr<', th»l the
in- amaleinrnilol the Garden will pofi>ively couimcucc
»<"i- On Friday, June {£,
an With. Concertol Vocal and luflrnmcnul Mjfic (
It l>e rep ated cMi Saturday, the 17th.after ihc roan
cry r.er of the frublic gwdcoaat Mim, Lon
oi'e d ai:icu :, r , „| which wH: tecxp TiUdc
and tuie bilU.
,:JQ J.iae <s. ,. PUBLIC NO LICE
18 hereby given to those persons, lit»!iir.g noUa
of the fubferiber, that he will rrtiew the
fame, payable in fix years, with legal interest
from tho date hereof; and that notta will be
given as above to all, who may have open ac
counts legally authenticated.
TIMOTHY MOUNTFORD.
No. 194, S. Second Street.
Phil.-4:lph.ia, June-:c, 1797- 3'-
JOT ICE.
TM-JE fubfertber having frnt by she ship
. Capt. Perry, the tollcving cntiflcatci o2 the
United States bank ft©ck, to wit :
Ng. to 16,0*4* fnclufive, for three
fhur« catii—and the fai<J ve:M having been cap
tured on her intended voyage to wh.c'n
wTH probably vecafion the lol'a oi the said
rertificates, give* this public notice,
'Jin: he shall apply at the proper f«r a re
newal, of then, and that means have Been taken
to prevent any imp'roper transfer.
Henry Philips,
No. 11 i,South J'ronf-(lreet.
lune j. taiv(jw
Importa\it Public Document.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale
At the.Office of the Editor ofthe Gazette of the
United States, *
No 119 Chehrjt-S reet,
L»»IC« ONI BOLLAR AND FIFTV CtNTs]
A FEW COPIES OF THE
Receipts and Expenditures
OF THE UNITED STATES,
For the Year i 795,
Being the I.Atesx Period to which an account
can be made up. "
February xl. §.
Advertisement.
PURSUANT ta an Order Jrem the Orphazt* Court,
tbitf le fold at PUBI.IC SALE, at Cranberry t on
IVtiJnffday, the I i,tb day of fune next, all that 'valuable
HEAL EST A TEt late belonging to the Rev. Gilbert
T. Snoxvden, dcceifcd, lying in and near Cranberry, in
county of &lidJltfex t tvwnjhip of South Brunfivick,
Aaie of Neiu f* r ftyi u P ort i ' Je loiuer flage road leading
from Philadelphia ta New Tori. A very elegant frame
bouse if 1 a beautiful ani healthy Jituaticn t pair, ted •white t
xviib Venetian nvindorv flutters, th'uty feet front and
tbitty~eigkt feet deep, two rooms with a handsome ball Or
tntry on the frjl floor, three rooms on the second floor and
two well-finijhedgarrets. In the rear of the bouse is an
txcelleni two flory building tonftfling of a dining-room fir
work people, Jpacious pantries and a largf kitchen, with ■
every convenience, and over tbrfe are three chambers for
servants. To the right is an additional building confining
of m chamber below and a library the whole
are very fine cellars paved with brick.. The bouse is en
tirely new and fnifbed with tajle. E very room is bung
with hells that lead both to tbe kitchen aud the fervunts'
Apartments : there is a pump in the' yard; and a flone
and brick pavement round the whole house, which is enclof
ed with a handsome railing, with three gates in front.
ITbe farm confijis of one hundred and Jixty seven acres,
with a proportion cf woudland and meadow, under excel
lent fence ; a garden with pale fence ; a large barn, fta-
Mes, carr'ugc-houfe, cow,~haufes> Xfc. all new, and built
in the bep manner : wiih a young orchard of 200 grafted
trees. NearU< adjoining fdid. farm is a lot cf IVoodland
of thebe/J fuaXty, containing 37 acres* A{[* a trail of
hnj within seven miles of Cranberry, containing one bun*
dred and fifty acres, three-fourths meadow and the tell ex
tellent timber. This will be fold in lots or together, as
will bejl suit tbe purchasers.
The paymentsi one third cajb——one third in one year——
and tbe remaining third, one year following, with inter ed
on the two lafl payments, and approved fceurjty.
For further particulars enquire of Nathaniel Hunt,
£fq. or Dr. Ralph Lett, Cranberry ; of Isaac Snow den,
at Princeton ; or of Isaac Snowden, fun. No. 141 South
Second Jlreet, Philadelphia.
May aj §6mwfiS.
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificentdwelling-houfe ic,tco dollars,
3t cash 30,000, are 50,000
I ditto 15,000 & ca!i 15,0 a* 40,00 a
r ditto 15,000 Sc caib 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,060 & cash 10,000 io,oeo
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 3c c«(h 3,000 io,oeo
1 cafe prize of 10,000
1 do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
xo do. 1,000 - - 10,000
»o do. soq - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
aoo do. 50 - - lo.oco
400 do. 15 - 10,000
x,oog do. 19 - 10.000
ij,ooo do. 10 • 150,000
1fi.739 Prizes.
,3 5,16 t Blank*.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but one :
And approved notes, securing paymept in either
tnoney or prizes, in ten days after drawing; will
be received lot any number not less than 30 tick
ets.
This Lettery will afford an elegant fpeeimen of
the private buildings to be in the City of
Walhir.gton—Two beautiful designs are already
lelefted for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from theie drawings it is proposed to erefl
two centre and 'ocrcorser foon aspof
£ble after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurtrs, in
the Manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery.' A nett dedutftion of fire per cent, will
b-e nude to defray theneceffvy expenses of print
ing, icc. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for tbe National Univeriity, to
be erefled within the city of Wailuivjton.
The real fecurit,esgiven for the paymeut of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two DirecS
e>rs of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half (be amount of the lettery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank ol Colum
bia ; 01 James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter
Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Welle, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
Chocolate and Mustard
Ma iifactured as usual,
Ginger and Fcpper ground
Shtfitd er Pearl Barley
Bhjladelpliia Porter, Betr, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Button Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
cr by the pipe, quarter-caflt or gallon—fuitablc
-tor exportation or home tonfumption—
Fot Salt by
'John Hazuortb.
No. 98 fostli Front fireet.
May jS . tu4w
Samuel & Miers Hfher.
No. 27, Dcck-ilreeJ,
Have just received per Abigail, Bahoci, from
Belfast,
IRISH Cambrickt, in boxes as 40 pieces
and 80 patches, each sorted up to 9/
sterling per yard.
They have also received
7-8 & 4-4 Irish Linens well aliorted
Dowlas and Sheetings, \
which will be fold for ready money, or flioit
credit, on'moderate terms; together with
a general aflbrtment of Spring Goods as
usuaL—Also,
Hunter's Pipes in boxes
An aflbrtment-of Queens' Ware in crates
An aflbrtment of GTafs Ware in casks and
crates
T. Crowley, Mijlington, Steel
Cargo '& London particular Tetferiffe Wines
Li(bon Wine' of excellent quality
Superior Sherry Wines
Patent Sheathing paper.
A few" small bales line Cloths neatly abort
ed, and two bales assorted Flannels, to be
fold per package.
June 9. 3taw 6w
j ,
Musical Inflrument Manufaftory,
No. 167, Arch-Street.
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable grand,
fid '-board, pier t\ble and square pia>:o forte
maktr from London, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hopes that by his afliduity and attention to ev
ery branch of his hufinefa, to rr.fcrk a continuance
of their favors. Piano fortes made on the newel!
and most approved plans, with pedals, patent,
swell, and French harp flop, which hellatteis
himfelf will ue found an trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not fuperier to any import
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inftru
m«nt purchased us him, if cot approved of in
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. E. All kinds of Musical indrumerits made,
tuned, and repaired with the greatest accuracy,
diipatch, and on the mod reasonable term?, lui
ready money only.
Second hand Piano Fortes taken in exchange.
May le. u&jm.
C O T T O N.
A few bales just arriwed, for sale by
JOHN CLARK,
No. 55 North Water Street.
Jane 10. eotf.
New Hat and Hosiery Store,
ynft Imported,
In tbe fbips William Penn and Siar,from London, and
now opening by
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
AT his new Hat and Hosiery Store, No. 134,
Market street
An elegant affortnwnt ot silk, cotton and thread
Stockings
Silk, cotton ani thread Gloves
Pantaloons, &c. &c.
Likewise, a handsome alforfrent of men's, wo
men's, and children's faihionable Hats, Suitable for
the Seafbn.
A cenfiderabte quantity of low and middle priced
Hat i assorted in cases, intended for country stores.
May 23. taw
A New Work.
PROPOSALS
For printing and publishing, by fubferiptioo, The
History of Pennsylvania,
IN North-America, from the original inftitutien and
settlement of that province, under the firft propri
etor and governor, William Pinn, in 1681, 'till
after the year 174 a; with
AN INTRODUCTION.
Refpefling the Life of W. PENN,
Prior to rtiegrantof that Province, and the reli
gions Society of the people called Quakers; with tke
FIRST RISE of the NEIGHBORING COLONIES,
m»re particularly of WEST-NEW-JERSEY, and the
Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDES on DEL A.
WARE.
To which is added,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE.
And of the general (late, in which it floilfifhed,
principally between the years 1760 and 1770; The
whole including a variety si, things, ufeful and in
terefling to be known, refpefling that country inearly
time, &c'. With an appendix.
Wiitten principally between the years 17)6_and 178®,
By Robert Proud.
" Pvlchrum ejl benejacere reitubliea, etiam benedicerc
haud abjuidum ejl, vcl face vet hello cUrum fieri licet.''
fai. Catalin.
" Sed cum plerique arbitrentvr res hellicas majores </<
q«am urbanas, minuendacX kxc opinio."
Cic. Off.
( Entered according Ur laui. J
" WILLIAM PENN, the great legislator of the
Quakers, (in Pennsylvania) had the success of a con
queror, in eflablilhing and defending h ; s colony, a
inongfavage tribes, without ever drawing the f word ;
the goodnels of the raoft benevolent rulers, in trea
ting his fubjeQs as his own children ; and the tender
nefsof an uuiverfal father, wno opened hi« arms to
all mankind without diftinftionot feft or party. In
his Republic it was not hij religious creed, but per
sonal merit, that entitled every mei/iber of society to
the protection and emolument of the State"
SJfay on Toleration, by Arthur 0' Lemry.
CONDITIONS.
I. This work will be printed in two oftavo vol
umes, neatlv bound and lettered, both in (beep and
calf, for the choice «f the fubfcribeis; ou paper Simi
lar t» that of the Conditions, as puili/ied in the Suijait
tion papers.
11. The head of William Penn, IjanHfomely en
graved, will be prefixed to the firft, ani a map or
Iketch of Pennsylvania, and the paVts adjacent, to the
fecund volume.
Ill* The price to fabferibers will be four dollars
and an half in fbeep, and Jive dollars in calf; —one
dollar to be paid at the time of fubfciibing, two dol
lais on th«delivery of the firft, volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery of the second.
IV. When one tboufaud copies are fubferibed
for, the work will be dui to press and finilhed with
ill eonven : ent expedition.
Subfcri-ptions will be received by Zachariah Poul
fen, jun. Primer, No. 80, Chefuut-ftreet, and at the
Philadelphia Library in Filth-ltrtet ; by Isaac Col
lins Printer, and Jefeph James. Merchant, New-
Yo»k; by J >hn P. Pleafa.,ysand Gtorge W. Field,
Metchants. Baltimote; aud by other persons both
iritown and country.
February 18. - ' tu £f
—— ——— : 1 ,
Received by the Indoftan,
Frorri Madras,
ASMALC invoice consisting of the following '
Coast Goods, viz.
Blue Cloths
I.ang Chill s, 14 punjurai
Do. do. fi:ie
Matjrafs Handkerchiefs, and
Book Muslins
WILLING y FRANCIS.
March j7.
gr; j pjrttir arch
\ NY person dtTirous «f information refpefl
- V icg thi; new conltruflidn, may obtain it
without d«i*v hy application pr. lettet-, or oth
erwise, to Jol.n Stickney, merchant of iVorcef
tcr, (Mjffachufctu) who will nuke known
the many advaitagcs arising from this :ftar.ner
of buildi.ig, and upon application he will either
vend a patent rijjht, or attend pttfon«lly -*o su
perintend the building of any bridge required.
June to, I7q7' * "eoiw.
ro BE SOLD,
A valuable thire llory Brick House ;
SITUATE in Lodge arey, next to t he-bank o»
Peunfylvania, the lot on which irftand»» to
gether wi'i the vai ant lot adjoining, which ex.-
tends to C. forth-ftreet. The houie is about 50
tret in fruit en Lo<ige«dley, and about 42 feet
in depth, the adjoining lot is about' 96 feet
front on Lodge alley, and 41 feet c» Gol'orth
flrcct, being a ltreet ryhich lead 3 from Chefnut
ftreet and Carter's alley into Dcck-Ilreet at the
hoi fe market. The house confifls of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix lire places, two dining
rooms, one of them forty feet in length, the
other about thirty-four feet, each containing
two fire places, two partoun and a large kit
chen, with extentive celians under, and garrets
over the whole; a privilege of a vacant lot
•f ground to the ealtward between this house
and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
yard, a handsome p'azza fronting the vacant
lot, and a frime (fable and dwelling house on
Gofcrth-ftreet. The premises now refit for
£.318 per annum. To be fold clear of all in
cumbrances.
For terms apply to John Clement Stockcr.
April xo 3awtf
To be fold or let,
And immediate pojfejfwn given,
A genteel two story Brick House ;
SITUATE on the upper end of Broad-street, in
the city of Burlington, with four rooms arid
an entry on each floor, good cellars under the
whole, a pump, in the yard, a garden and court
yard, containing nearly half an acre under good
fence, with a stable adjoining the yard. The
whole property is in good order.
For terms apply to the fubfenber in Burlington*
who will give a credit for a considerable part of
the purchase money if good security is given.
William Cexe, fun.
May 17. aawtf
William Blackburn,
LGTTERr and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 fcuth Second-flreet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commenced drawing the 19th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets win rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly op ac
count of the five firft drawß tickets, prizes of
four thcufand dollars each, on the lalt day of
.drawing. /
Check Books kept for examination and register
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Washington, Ne.
t, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets forfale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomen Bridge lotteries, whieh will begin
drawing in the course of the summer.
The bufiitefs of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &c. tranfadfed with the
utmost a;tpntien. »
June 2 tu&f
Venereal Complaints,
PUNCTUALLY attended to in every stage of
that disease, without the use of mercury or
restraint of diet, in any cafe recent and simple, on
application at No. 113, Chefnut-ftreet, opposite
the United States bank, or at No. 1 jo, South Wa
u-r-ftrect, betwecti Spruce and Pine-llaeets, where
he has opened an office for the better accommoda
tion of his patients.
But in Lues Venerea confirmed, Do&or Morgan
pledges himfelf, thit nofyftem of cure (l*>wever
specious) can be effe&ual without mercury, an<t
that all the known rules of practice for theie two
centuries past, and united experience affirms, that
any fubftitui# for it is but nugatory, and any mode
of practice to the contrary mull be futile and dc
ceptious. ,
Nevertheless, he undertakes, however compli
cated the cafe, to effect a cure without inconve
nience or injury to the patient's constitution, and
in time not generally experienced or expeifted.
N B. Regular attendance at the office in Water
flrcet, from the hour of nine o'clock in the morn
ing until one, and from three o'clock in the. even
ing until seven ; but any or her time at his dwelling
house, in Chefnukftreet.
May 16. d t f
Now Landing,
At Prat? s wharf,
FROM on board the &ip Thomas Chalkley,
Capt. Rafer, from Bourdeaux,
CLARET in caflct
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
Hed Skins in boxes
For Sale by
Rundie y Leech.
'S §
"piano forte.
LONGMAN & BRODERIP's
ROYAL patent Piano Forte with a green
board, an excelieht tcned instrument. For
sale at Mr. Salters, No. 56, S. Fourth Street.
June 10. diw.
t : ————
A Cow Stolen
FROM the owner at the corner of Ninth
and Arch streets. She is a deep red
brindle with some white, about ten years
rild and very gentle. The person who fe
oretes her had best turn her out, as, if legal
evidence can be obtained, he may expeft a
rigorous prosecution. TWO DOLLARS
reward will be given to any person who will
deliver the Cow, or give such evidence a
gainst: the person keeping her, that he may
be convifted of the fact. Apply at
No. 218, Ascr Street.
June 9. tawjw
For Sale,
At the Office of the Gazette of the Unittd
States, No. 119, Chefnut-flreet,
The lafl Report of the late Secretary
of the Treasury ; being a brief history of the
slate of financial concerns of the United States.
The Proceedings of the Executive
of the United States refpedlirig the western in
furredion : Containing many facts and cir
cumflances no. where else to be found. 50
cents.
The Letter of Mr. Pickering to
our minilicr in France. 37 1-2 cents.
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States for the year
•795-
A few copies of the volume fdr J794 may be
had to complete setts.
D'lvernois* account of the Revo
lution in Geneva. 12 !•* centi.
April J. S
JamEs davenport
REfpe&fully informs the Citizens of the United
States that.he will maive Machine for Spinn*
ing Hemp, Tiax, Tow, Cottoln, Wool, irur.ttiac
turing Twines, and weaving, by wat«r, on the
moll reasonable Terms.
A Manufa<sloty on this principle, he flatters
himfeil meet with very general patronage, as
the Machmes wlll hc wade and delivered, comp!ete
ly fumiflied, per Spiiidle or PieceV 'titve ar r~
charge be made for hiaPatect Rights,but Liberty will
be given to tjie Purchafcr to ufc them ; the great
inconvenience of employing in the erec
tion of them will be avcided,and tlic perl'on wilbing
to extend thesn will be able to calculate the
exptnee. He engages tofet t'ucm to work, and
alio iaftruift or cause to be any person
or in any part of the Union, who may
purchase tfiefe Machines, in their principles and
method of ere&ion, luch porehafers paying travel
ing; expences,
For terms, application niaybe made at No. 74,
Market Street, Phila'dclpfua.
* # * It is requefled that aiiletUi's may be pel-jjaid.
June 10 *6t.
An elegant House in Arch-street.
TO be let and entered on immediately, a large and
Houfe at the corner of Arch and Ninth-Arect.
There are drawing rooms and oae dining room
—the largest is 3 a feet by 26 —and two are so con
ncded by folding doors as to.make but one. Also,
five bed rooms, bcfjde five in the garret, well finilh
ed for servants. There are tables and a coach house,
with evcy convenience for a tainily. Enquire at No.
29, in North Seventh ftrret, or at No. 218, Arch
ftrcet. *
Also to be rented for the summer season, a small
neat house and'garden about 3 1-2 miles from the
city, with (tables and coach house, Enquire as above.
June 6. 2^wqw
Harrijburgh, Lartyte,
Soippcnjburg and Sunbury
S T AGES.
THE public are reijuefled to take notice, that
the partnership which lias for some time fub
filled bctweoH Mathias Slough of Lancafler, and
William Geer, is now diffislved: but, not as M.
Slough infinnates to the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the luh
jeift from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December lalt. a recital of which i» not now deem
ed neceJTary. Any gentleman who willies to be:
more circumflantially informed of the merits of
this bufmefs, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal ef M. Slough's letttV, and then can te
at full liberty to determine whether cr not W.
Geer is not perfeflly juflifiable in attaching him
felf to'any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the;
public ware pleased to confer on the "firft effort in,
this bulinefs, Vfilliam Geer, in conjun<stion with;
Meflrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
toprofecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and Jifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided:
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to;
render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
thofo wno wish to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the %n of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
eftablifiied.
For the further accommodation of the public;
a Stage will dart eve»y Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, jn Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from thcace and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so uiat passengers deflined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed oai Mon-j
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 37, 1797.
N- B. This Line of Stages ftarts'from tha
house of William Ferroe, in Lancaster, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro.
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, oh the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : perfAming the
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadel
phia. mwf
For Sale,
AN ELEGANT AND VERY COMMO
DIOUS
Three-story brick House,
And Lot of Ground thereunto belonging,
IN Arch, above Severnh-llreet being a high, plea
ant situation and good neighbourhood. The said
House is twenty-fix feet in frout by 48 feet in depth
with a piazza twenty feet in depth, and 2 story kitchen
and pantries 31 feet in depth, in the piazza there is a
commodious {lair cafe and mahogany railing, and
there is also a back stair cafe; said house is finilhcd
in a complete and modern stile, with marble
chimney pieces, flucco cornices, mahogany doors,
&c. The said lot U 38 feet in bresdth, about
300 feet in depth, and has two fronts ; on said lot
is a brick coach house and /table, well finifhed,
and plaiftered, a pump of good water In the yard,
and about the premiies there are many conveniences
vtoo tedious to enumerate.
The above property will be fold clear of all in
cumbrances, and the terms of payment made easy to
the purchaser.
Jfor fqnher information apply to
JOHN ELLIOTT CRESSON,
No. 144, South Second-Jlreet.
J unc 9' fmw2<w
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for John Morton, No. 116, South
Front street,
Hyson "N ,
l<y!'<m Skirt vrir a o
Young Hyson f
Imperial J
April 2Q. eotf .
This Day is Published, ~
BY MefT. Dobfon, Carev, Campbell, Rice, and the
other Book Tellers,
jricc One I) )llar and twenty-five cents,
Elegant y printed on IV we paper, and Hot
frcfed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with other, and with
that of the
the prominent featu\s of eaefr Cwnftitutidn, an<(
dafTing together their most injpsrrant provrfion<j ,
under the several vf administration i with
Notes aijdObffrvatiofis.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South Caro!ina l
L L. I), and member of the Congress of the
United States.
Indicated to the Pcoplft as th« United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at 3-4thj of a.dollar.
February 6 mwf
Mr. Pickering's Letter to Gen.
Pinckney.
A few copies of the above interesting paper
may be had at the oJF.cc of the Gazette wf ihcU
nitedStaret.
May 13 r
For Sal?,
7 hat tvsfl.lncurtplace, called
r ii >v,
ON 1 Nefhaminy creek, ig r;iles from Phil»»
ladclphia, on the New York pest read,
tontainiag 74 acres and 94 perches. CJnon the
premises are a lii'ge two (tory flone house occtt
pied as a tvern, and a good ooe flory ftonckit
chen, a large frame ft»ble with a good threlhir.g
-•floor, an (Librae out buildings—also a well of H
good water, and in excellent ice House. 0»
this place is a most elegant situation fora gentle
man's feat. Commanding a «iew of the Nefham-'
, iny t<rits jUndlion wiih the Delaware, and thenc#
across to the Jersey shore. It basthe privilege
ot one half the toll received frdm tfie bridge.
For tenns apply to the Snbfsriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS'.
y ay *4- £iwtf.
Georgetown Bridge Company." I H
Extrafl of an a<Jl passed by the of I
tlve slate of Maryland on the 29th December.
1791, entitled, - An ait tor emoting a bridge
over Potowmac river.
'• And be it enured, that the f«d directors or
any two of them fliall and way require any iuni
or sums of money in equal proportion from each ,
and every proprietor, may frpm tnae to time fl
be neceflary for carrying on the building of laid
bridge; anil after giving three months public H
fhall aud may be lawfuU'or.the flireit
ors ttj sue for and r*cover in the nacre of the
compaavJuch unpaid requ'ifition, with all coll*
and charges incidental thereto, and legal interell
thereon from t"he time the fame fiiould hav«
beenpaid: And the riegleft orrefa&l fopay any . I
such requisition after public notice /hall have
been given at least for three months in all the
newfpapersbeiein before enumerated, Out! have
the effeil to forfeit all preceding payments made ' I
on the flrcre or shares so negle<sled or rclufedto
be paid t«> the use and benefit of the company."
'l'he above extract is p'ublifhed for the infor
mation of such of the Ifockholders as have not
cofnplied with the requisitions heretofore made
—they are as follow: On the lit November,
'79J> dollars, on the-10th May, 1796, 40
dollars; an the aoth Ju1y,,1794, 40 dollars ; on
the Ift September, 1796, dollais, and on the
lit November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is
now given that after the expiration of the time \
limited for the continuance of this I I
ment (three months) the law will be carried
into rigid and complete effeft against all delin
quents.
' By order of the Directors,
IVALTER SMITH, Trtafurer.
Georgetown, May 1, 1797. iaw.3lll
THE FOLLOWING VALUABLE
Trads of Land,
IN the couaty of Glynn and state of Georgia,
will be fold by public sale, at eight o'clock
on the evening of Tuesday the 27th day ot June
next, at rjje Merchants Coffee-Houfe in this ci
ty, unless previoufly.difpofca of by private sale.
ift. 7COO acres on St. Simons Sound at the
confluence of Fredcrica and Turtle rivers, ad
joining the commons of the t6wn ofßrunfwkk,
originally granted to John Howell, and within
6 miles of the Atlantic ocean.
ad. 2.5,000 acres on the head waters of &
branch of the great SattiUa, originally granted
to Ferdinand O'Neal. k
3d. 50,000 acres on the waters of the little
Satilla river, and of Buffaloe and Alexandefs
Creeks ; the great Satilla road pafles through
these laads, which were originally granted to
Ferdinand O'Neal.
4th. 50,000 acres on the great Satilla river,
which are also. interfered by a branch of the
little Satilla, and were originally granted t»
Thomas Spalding.
It appears by authentic certificates ; from
Thomas Davis, surveyor, and from Major
Hopkins now reiiding in Philadelphia, that the
body of these lands are not thirty miles from
the ocean, and principally within tide water;
that the Alatamaha is navigable for boats and
rafts two hundred miles above, and for large
veflels within ten miles of them ; that they are
chiefly fir It rate pine land&, producing timber
equal in quality to any id the state of Georgia,
poflefling the fame advantages of navigation.
The abovementionid certificates, together with
the patents, drafts, andether papers refpefling
the title, which is complete and unincumbered,
are in the pofleffion 8f the fubferibers and may
be seen by applying to Benjamin tt. Morgan, at
No. 41 Mulberry Street. The terms of pay
ment will be one third caih, the remaining two f
thirds in good negotiable endors'd notes, paya
ble in three and fix months after the sale • a
conveyance to be made to eaeh purchaser on the
payment of that moiety of the notes received
from him which becomes firft due. p
THOMAS FITZSIMONS, "
JEREMIAH PAKKER,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN.
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 25th
day ©f October next, ar 11 o'clock, A. M.
About seven thousand acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifter's-town and Wellminfier,
commonly called Little Wincheftet, (the turn
pike road runs through a cenfidarable patt'ef
these lands) the tract begins about 17 milt*
from Baltimore, wiriun i few hundred yards
of said Reifter's-town, and extends to the dis
tance of about twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and lias on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in tracts of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is' a large propor.
tion of meadow and wood land on each trail
some of them highly improved, Vmh excellent
buildings and fine gr;ft.
also, 1
Atraftof seven .hundred acres of
land, called Clover-Farms, within five miles of <1
liladenfhurg, tdeemed very gocii for Graiis.
Richard Ponfonby.uf BlafJeolburgh, will/hew
this land to any pcrfon inclined to jjurchaia. >
also, ' \
A traft of land of about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a half of the President's h<mfe in the Fede
ral City. It-is nearly all wood lattd, and a fine
high profpea,* tro.-r, which may be fe-ta the
city of Walloon, Bladenfeuigh, Alexandria
and a part of •George-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Por,foil
by, of will »lfo lhew this land.
A liberal credit will be given for the greatest
part of the purchase money! ,he terms xvill
be made known en the day of sale.
M »y 8 wim
Notice.
ALL persons indebted to the Bftate of Sa*,»»
Marsball, deceased, arcrequefted tonulie •
immediate payment, and thofc diat have demands
against said estate, are defirtd to bring in their ae
countsptoperlyatte<led forCcttlement, to either of
thtfubferibers. CuatSTcfuiß Marshal r r .
Caspar W. Haikis,
Abraham M. GAKufGuts,
Adminiftiatorito the"Eflat- of Sarah MarfhdJ
deceafcd. June 3 . saw 3 w '