.; , ' /
mttxtpf the Unites Jltates, &
rV()LUME XI.
_ _ MONDJT EVENING, FEBRIJA RT 10, 1797. - —-
NuMßEfi 1509.J
- " _.T rr— t Frejh Garden, Graft and Flower-Seeds, M*s. GR AT <
For Freight or Charter,
the sloop At
QHE i< a good veflel, fails faft, carrie*
jbout 500 barrels, and will take in
Freight to proceed Coastwise, or for the Weft-Indies.
For terms apply to Emanuel award, mailer, on
toard, at Arch-street wharf, or t»
ISAAC HARVEY, Jun,
No. 4 South Water-street.
Febnu'y 14 tw
FOR SALE, ON BOAR® SAID VESIIL,
A few coils Cordage, ne
CANDLES, and <h>
SHOES.
A Quantity of Brandy, (
FIRST &• ad proof, M
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes T
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different sizes j a
Hazlenuts, in sacks q 4
Whiting \\
wE&a { T
& Spanilh Brown J _
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 §
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was bought for Ten Thousand
Dollars. P
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet.
He eats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel 0.
vrater ; he has drank some days forty bottUs of porter, K
drawing the corks with his triink.
He is perfeaiy inoffenfive; travels loofc, at the £
mllra in Vir>.r. «.rl is rlw jrreatati utMoGt-y
ever 'grougbt to thi® Continent- . J
He is to be seen 'till the 15th of Jan«ary, in ,
JVI/rket-ftreet between Third and Fourth-streets, at ,
s quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him—
after which time the former price of half a dollar will
be resumed.
He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather
will permit.
December 31 ■ ° j
FOR SALE, BY
Philip Nicklin & Co. c
Imperial and") TEAS
Hyson )
I j Tubs Quicksilver
2 Chcfts Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chefls Manchester Goods, well assorted in Cos.
duroys, Thicksets, Ginghams, Maflinets, Dimities, scc. .
3 Trunks black Sewing Silk
180 Crates Queen's Wa:e, well assorted
io Tons Sheet Ldad
N ails assorted fiat and ftiarp points ■
london Partiular") Madeira wine in pipes and hngf-
India Market J heads
40 Pipe l and 10 Hoglheads Teneriffe Wiqf jj
* IO Hogsheads choice Port Wine cl
7 Tieices Snake-Root l>
j6 Casks yellow Paint p
a Boxes and I a Bundles writing Slates 11
■ - | lull JU HUt'J I 111 I
14 Bales Sail Canvass assorted. No. I to % ti
February 11. mw&ftf "
-—Washington LOTTERY, a b . U. 0
List of Prizes an» Blanks. *
64th Day's Drawing, February 11.
jVo. Dots. No. Dots. No. Doh No. Doll.
77 10 12033 14252 2® 368®!
83 279 255 10 8 43 10
161 10 I 3 7°* 37°7°
197 xo 473 10 *5562 470
403 789 249 10 s*Ss ao
Ijls I4I?2 359 10 819
431 777 4«9 I® V.2
4*5 817 10 38293
548 15756 87? J 9 I3 J '
g ; 6 16J10 906 aaa
966 146 9 : 5 10 . 9 1 *
*•' S4-72 10 217- »6oß< 405°4
169 657 814 687
733 706 27033 10 41649
3220 972 s*° 42097 10
583 17075 2,12S *72
624 414 138 10 43077
not IO 616 IO <s° 584 10
402* 18547 680 689 I®
404 1902© 10 96S 25 44517
457 4t® 3°02l 779
L j»tt »"""■ TOO
163 10 660 10 559 45099
208 839 i6 7
86/ 21326 283 511 19
891 s*l 497 4*539 r °
659,7 791 6 53 899
7 T4O 9 1 5 3 94i
363 2201, 536 10 47581 10
571 10 212 10 337 60 10 48104 IO
*644 10 318 10 762 119
646 10 363 9*4 l° 2 55 10
9394 23CM 931 49*88
,694 015 20 34369 361 10
697 162 350/9 545 10
1045 J 4 -S8 795 10 947
875 911 -10 36243 10
1199 1 10 24060 10 578
65th Bay's Drawing, February 13.
No. Dols. No. Dels. No D«U. No. Doh.
1137 17445 i® 26028 4.1234 10
192 45 7 27479 1« 469-10
926 18388 7=9 5" *0
1059 sas 10 28*55 599
383 537 »9549 8? 4 10
678 980 10 620 42124
3341 10 i° 3 C 43' 33i 10
4191 613 476 6 3i IO
429 10. 63* 32433 43095 10
. J74 10 700 857 139
j 9 «9 to 40184 339.17 143
7037 739 988 lij
1*348 11605 34253 435
11758 10 880 616 10 44127 10
111 74 10 22105 35021 lo 486
48S
847 10 10255 -le 38180 - 4539* 18
989 aßi 39050 10 ( 4*ooi 10
13315 3 61 J® i®9 36<
465 10 24200 10 218 47146 10
500 161 10 394 372 »o
1453# 841 85a 10 6eo 10
15125 »5'»6 4®HJ % 664
1603? 471 521 8 5l *0
412 673 10 987 981
In the 62d day's drawing) mftead *f 42819 bla»k,
Yead 42879 blank.
For Sale,
At the Office of the Editor of the Gazette of the
, United States, Thi
A FEW COPIES OF
* "An account of the Receipts and
n Expenditures of the United States, fy the year T795."
Mr. Pickering's Letter.
This Day Publiflied, GA
JNDFOR S.ILE LT THI EDITOR,
Price threeeights of a Dollar.
THE Letter of the Sectary of State, to Mr. Pinck- • Jive
ney, Minister Pkniyoteiv iary oi the United States, to Four
the French Republic'. ' February 9. 6t Twe
_ Red Clover Seed. ! Kiev
Fresh red Clover Seed if the best quality, m bags of f Twc
5 bushels each
Madeira wine in pipes, fit for immediate u.e j J nr<
Teneriffe wine in pipes, hogsheads and quarter calks t ive
Ditto do. of firft quality, for the use of private icn
families
C»ffee in hogsheads
Jamaica spirits
Conneflieut soap in small boxes
Window glass and Spanilh and R
Two trunks of best patent, plain and ribbed silk and
cotton hofterv, for faleby
JOHN CRAIG.
February 1. wfl&mtf g
Le Breton, The
nd SURGEON-DENTIST, Prii
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Deittift to the
King and Royal Family of Fran<-e, member of the
of College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
er, Keeps a complete aflovtment of every thing nece.iary
to be used fsrthe z-
: he Prt-ftrvation of the Mouth and Teeth.
,ty Paunr Jdiwnral Htinaan fc {vory Trtt+»;
Lentrifice ia powder; Opi-Xi'; excellent E;ixir fv-r
"J sweetening the mouth and preserving the teeth—he
_ also furnifhes Brofhes and foft Sponges.
* m * He lives in Chefnut-ftrect, No. 13J, ab#.ve
11 Fourth-street.
November 26. tts E
L A N DING, for ,
AT Walnut-street wharf, from ou board the Ihip Peg- uk;
captain Elliott, from Bourdeaux, jt
VIN DE GRAVE, or White Claret, in Hhds and Qr. -
RED CLARET, in Hhds
Ditto in cases of 24 and 30 bottles each
Green and SouchcngTEAS, in quarter chests
For sale by f '
Rundle Ss 5 Leech,
Nn. 9 Walnut.street.
Februa»y 6 mwfrf
Davis's Law Book-store p ril
. No. 313, HIGH-STREET. 2.° ,
K, GEORGE DAVIS announces ro his profeffional frjends, DU
as S and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
Union, that his late importation ot BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and ready for Sale, from a finglc volume to an entire li- plo
brary, without any advance upon his former ex-ccding io* ]
prices, which forfeverai years past have info a
manner recommended them 10 notice. D l £
■HTr-|i- l ij»nW^-l--T'-'' : ">'■*llll _I r Wft ■■■■ >JI J.ftuj.. J mTV r/.,
tion cf the late ft Englilh and Irilh Lditioaa ev»i tmporieo
f into this country, arc pablilhe4» <i e,lvcrc< * g«»U;
on application.
to G. D. iu writing from auy d»ft?r,ce
(hall be puVi6lually at«ended to. p
A number of J RUNKS sot Sale. aul
o/j e . vLSOi TO BE LET, to
A convenient LCXr f, near Mai kct Street Wharf.
0 ov.B. N iu&fya» ga
Washington Lottery.
0 TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchafcd or
exchanged for prizes, at the Ofßoe, No. 147 Ckefnut- £j
street, where a correal Numerical Book is kept for public ca
iiifpeiStion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
changed for prizes arawH ia the Washington Lottery, of
which the 60th and 6lft days returns are received.
£s* The Business of a Brok«r carried oh as usual.
]aou:iry 12,. ttstf
To the Benevolent. f
[q r Bubfcriber having rented that well known lav- | j
t ernhoufe, on Silver Springs, Cumberland county, : c j,
on the great road leading from Philadelphia to Fort Pitt,
[0 which he had completely furniflied for the accommodation fe
[9 of travellers, but which unfortunately,by accident caught tQ
fire about 12 o'clock in the morning, the 3d of Novem- m
bcr lart, and in tke space of one hour was totally confum- ar
ed witk all the furniture, wearing apparel, stores of li
-quun, Scc.io a very largt amount, attended with the me- 0 j
lancholy loss of a daughter about twelve years of age, j w
who only survived a few hours after the fire ; his wile al- |
Ic ? f® dilabled ;an 4 others »f his family much hurt ;he isj t j.
10 now reduced to an unhappy and destitute fitua ion—he a .
therefore l«:gs leave to solicit some relief from a generous
public, rhe following gentlemen «ire pleafeu to undertake p]
I® the trouble t* receive iubferiptions for his benefit: viz.
JO Samuel Richardet, Merchants' CofFee-Houfe ; James ai
i'hompfon, Indian Queen ; Qeergc Irwin, CroXs Keys, in j v
IO Fourth-street, and JoJji Dunwoody, Spread Eagle, High- r{
street- DAVID BRIGGS. a)
10 Philadelphia, February 14 ttlikftM3
IO ++•+ The other Printers are requeued to publiik the above. t j
££/" NOTICE. T>
THE Sales of LANDS of the United States, in the
North-Western Territory, heretofore advertised
Dols. * n l^e P u bHc papers, will commence this even-
IO ing, City Tavern to be continued fcom day
today, 'till the tenth of MARCH next, if not sooner
jo fold -
January 4 $
10 J PARCEL OF VERY FINE
I 0 St. Croix Sugars and Rum, j
10 JAMAICA SPIRITS, and
IO LAGUIRA HIDES,
For Sale by ]
Feb. 7.—£iw JAMES YARD. j
Clocks-and Watches. s j
16 LESLIE and PRICE,
5« No. 79, Market-street, Philadelphia,
is HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from ;
10 London, a large aflortment «f WARRANTED ]
WATCHES, consisting of horizontal, capp'd and
10 jewd'd Gold Watches, with fecoj-df, of fnperior
29 workmanship and elegante ; also and jewel'd
»o and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd Scjewell'd, capp'd,
seconds, day as the month, and plain Silver Watches*
20 eight day & chamber Clocks* elegant French Clocks
with marble frames; eight day and thirty hour, brass ,
>ta»V, works, &c. /.
Deceipbet 32, 1796. dzm
Fresh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, &c. &c. R 5;
This dsf landing from the ship EagJ-', captain Fofdick,
from Londoa, (t r(
And FOR SALE by «
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Second-itreets, Jacon
A meti capital and zsttnfivc Ajfortmrht °f S;ripc
GARDEN, GRASS awl FLOWEK.-SEEDS, Fine
ROOT«, &c. &c.
Among which are,
Five kinds JVfparagusllThrer Kinds Crf..es Sheet:
Four Ber«co!e Twelve Owon Jacon
Twenty-five Bcansl l'hirteen Eidifh Book
Sii Ecets'jFifteen r ""»P ufll
1 Eleve* Brpcoli; Fifte«® i>cas ,^ ac "
\ Twenty-G* Cabbage kSix T> Sa J° y
' Six Carr&t Four Parfaip
1 Three Cauliflewer Twenty-three Melon Camt
j Five Celery Twenty-one Lettuce '•'!>«
Tea Cutumber
Commgfi and lemon Thyme rv" 1
Curled leaf and sprigged Pariley
Pat Marygold ' Pot Marjorum ( Men
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel 1 ami
Leek ' Kail Shallots '«<*>
Rape Sees Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerne Ai
Red aid white Clover Timothy, &c. tic. N.
With acurious colleiSlion of the mofl esteemed Lmei
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being themoft eitenCve ev<r imported into this city. '
The above are from a capital Seedt'man in London, and
ire warranted frelh apd good.
Printed catabgues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. § - A
tor Sale, £
By the Subscribers —In PENN-STREET, A
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
; FRAN CIS, *
Nov. 30
A convenient stable
SITB/.TED in Laurel Court— j Stalls therein to be rent- ]\|
ed, with the privilege of using the Hay-Loft. » aT
Eight years of the time of service of ztSiEGRO MAN •
for sale. He is accallonied to houle work, and capable of pj '.j
taking care of Horses. Enquire of the printer. c f r
February it ftthtf bri)=
• —WANTS A PLACE. ade
A Woman who can be well rccomroredrd fo|-honefly, so
briety, and good temper. She wiihe* to engage as cham-
or Icmpitrefs tor low wajes oucondiiioii she may p
retain a young c >ild with her. Lnquite at No. 58 South —*
Froiit flreet. February 16 d i
CAMILLA, a
Or A Picture of Youth. Getl
Bv the autherefs of Evelina and Cecilia, to be com
prife'd in five volumes, at half each, payable F
on delivery—Printed It New-York, by ' Mr. John *
Bull.
' t CONDITIONS.
I. Handsome, neat, type, perf, illj new, is em
' ' 1L A volume, Hitched in blue paper, is intended HT
3 to be pyblilhcd every '2 weeks, till the five are com
plctcd ; the firft ahd feccnd are come to hand, and the ent
0 and Books may be had of J. ORMROD, No. 41, t0 '
' ChefiiUt-ftreef
Mr D'Arbhy (late Miss Burney) the celebrated
authjrefs of this inimitable work, needs no eulogy
to add to the laurels ihe has already acquirer in the py
literary world. The strength of imagination and ele- ,
gance of ftyfe, displayed in Evelina and Cecilii, will ;
fufficiently ieeommecd to every reader of taftc and
: judgmest, the perusal of Camilla. \
>r It may not be improper to add, that the Queen of vac
c ~ England, after hav ing perused this intcreftiag publi- A
K cation, prefen'ed Mrs. D'Arblay with a thousand
pounds iierliug, as a tcftimcny of her approbati-n of
01 the work. b r |
January 15 mw ' pn
_ Samuel Richardet sot
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen ,«
Merchants, that he has this*day opened the CHTY t»
v " i TAVERN itnd MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the th<
: y > city of Philadelphia;
t£ i The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all the coi
on daily papers in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos- ™'
;l" ton, Baltimore, togather with those of the principal com- ch
m " mercial cities of Europe—They will be r«gularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on 3ny account.
h- Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety de
of French Liquors; together with ihe ufu&l refrefhments,
K e > I will ar all times be procured at the bar.
al" j Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated ,with
' s ' the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mod
~^ G approved Malt Liquors fropiLoudon and other breweries.
01,1 The Larder will be supplied with the prime and earliest 3,
J j ie proJtnftions of the Season. ]y
" z - Large and small Parties, or fiagle Gentlemen, may be f D
u f s accommodated with Breakfafts, or Suppers, at
hours rhoft convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
gh- regularly kept for onveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
at tha bar. e ,
! . Tlie Lodging Rooms will be completely furniffied, and
' ve - the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite.
. 0" Sumuei. Rjcbardet will behappy to receive, and c
1 execute .the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
1 large; and with* gratitude for their favours, he pledges s ,
f*" himfelf that nothing on his part shall be wanting to pre
" 1 serve that patronage with which he has been so diilinguifh-
" er ingly iionored. -
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
Bourdeaux Brandy, in Pipes,
OLD Claret, in casks
Ditto-in cases, ot an excellent quality J
' Lisbon Wine in pipes
Fourth "'proof Holland Gin
New-Ingland kpm in hogOicadsa*d tierces
Raisins in keg# S
Best Boston Beef and Pork I
Halifax Salmon in bairel* x I
Ruflia Sail Duck I
Ravens Duck j
A few Feather Beds
•One 11 1-2 inch Cafcle ) r , . «
-One 9 do do ,J ««• fathom, long each
Speimac*!i Candles
' Mould and dipt Tallow ditto '
A few barrels Tanners Oil, and (
A small invoice of India Goods,
>1 For Sale by
JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co
ALSO,
* Just received Marleillei, a frwall invoice of Silks, Silk
,ra * s Stockings, an aflurtmcnt of Perfumery, and a lew cases ol
the best OHveOil. C
ti Febuwry
Mas. G RATTA N
RefpeAfulfy informs her friends, and the public in
general, that on Tuesday the'l-.th day of January,
ihe proposes opening, at No. 39, North Sixth
ftreet,
A Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
Bdok Muslins, from 673 to 12/11 per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to 5/# per yard
Sixiped ditto, from 7/10 to per yard
Fine CoflTaes
Tambonr'd Sook Moflin?, from
India Muslin, from 11/3 to lsf |>w yard
Sheeting Muflitt
Jaconet mull in Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 to 6f per hdkf.
Book muslin Handkerch/'ds fr#m 5/3 to io/"6 per hdkf.
Muflirv color'd and bordey'd Handkerchiels
Dacca Handkerchiels
Tambour'd Cravats from los% to lift I
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/3 to 16/3 per yard
Table Clotks
Huckabuck Towelling
Women's Cotton Hose, from 6/fe to isf per pair
Dimity from $/lo to 6/i*
Men's Silk Hose
TambourM muslin Handkerchiefs from 11/ ii to 1
lrifh linens for Oentlen-en's Shirts, from 5/5 to
And a variety of other articles.
N. li. Order# received for all kinds of ready mads
Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Crayats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, &c. &c.
Houftvold Lin «, &c. &c.
A plain Ihirt, made and mark'd, 3 1-1 dollars^
A full -ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain fliirt, made and mark*d, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled lit to 6 dollars-
A plain Ihirt, made and marked, 5 i-Z dollars.
• A -full ruffl-d ditto 7 dollars.
A plain fliirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars,
A full rustled ditto 7 1-2.
A plain shirt, made and marlc'd, 6 1-2 dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditio 8 dollars.
Linen included. .
January
Pennsylvania Population Company.
NOTICE is herebf given, to such Share-holders a(
as hav« not paid their afTeflTments on theirfharcs—l9
j pay the fame immediately to the Secretary of the Compa
, ny, at the Company's OlHce, No. 53 north Fourtn-flreet,
Philadelphia, l i-ty are further informed, that in default
of paying the fame within thirty days from the 4th of Fe
- binary, instant, the several forfeitures .will l>s ftri&ly ex?
ailed, in conformity to the 21 it article cf association-
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Secretary*
>' Feb. 2. 4 -33
iVlahogairy and Logwood.
A Carjjo for Sale on board of the ihip Sally, captain
Gelfton, jud arrinsd from Honduras.
Apply to
PHILIPS, CR.AMOND & Co
e February 9 • * $ >
DANCING
TitG 61 T BY
MRS. B r R A r ,
Of the New Theatre, To Lai',a vrty.
d TPHINKING it a great advantage for them to have a
1- L F,mile Tutor in that art, pledges herfelf to their parr
ie enu and friends to take allpoflible care ill their inftrvAion.
to't;arf the iC/inuet!^Minuet de la Cour',' ')l liamnn'a, ii i
vot, Quadrdles, Strathspeys, and all Scotch Dances ; and
above all to pay particnlsr attention to that very
j Polite Addrrfs. For particnlars enquijre of Mi > Bvrn,
No- 70 north Eijhtb-ftreet. Februiy 6 niwftf
>e PURSUANT to a Resolve of the Board of Truflees of
r *~ Washington Acadihy, in Somerfel County, and
State of Maryland,
id NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the office of principal Teacher in the said school |i«
of vacant.
|i- \ GENTLEMAN qualified to teach thehigher Greek and
lc j f \ Latin ClaOict, Ccography, and the Ma hematics, with
0 f such other branches of literature as are usually taught in such
schools, would meet with liberal eneouTagemtM, and, it is
believed, would obtain a very eligible lettlernent. For the
_ present, the Tjuftees would be willing to contract with a per.
son capable of taking charge of a Grammar S. hool.
Asthis Inftitutiofl is provided with buildings fufficient to
?a accommodate the principal and his family, and from seventy
'Y t» eighty boy«i; a library, an excellent philofophicol and ma
he thematical apparatq?, globe 6, maps, &c; has refpcctabla
funds, and is situated in a plentiful and agi eeab: part of ihe
he country ; nothing fcems wanting to make it rank among the
3 f_ mod ufeful seminaries in this part of the Union, but a suitable
r _ charafter to prcfide in it.
'j PropofaU may be addressed to the fubferiber, in Princess-
Anne, in the neighborhood of the Academy, or to D )ftof
Main.n L Hat hie, No 83, north Third-street, Phila.
' deiphia, or to the Pi inter hereof.
,t5 > EZEKIEL HAYNIE.
. January 10. FrS 7. tu&fßw
oft This Day is Published,
: e9, BY MefT- Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the other
£ookfellers, price One Djllar and twenty-five cents, elegant,
ly printed on woye paper, and hot-pressed, by John Thomp.
son,
at A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
15s Thi CONSTITUTIONS of the several States,
tad With each* other, and with that of the United States :
exhibiting in Tables, the prominent features of eaah Con
stitution, and classing together their most impertant pro
her yjfions, under the several heads of administration ; with
Notes and Observations. By William Smith, of South-
Carolina, LL. D and member of the Congrcfs of th»
at United States. Dedicated to th» People of the United
States.
,re * -N.B. A few Copies printed on an inferior paper, at
3.4 th s of a dollar. February 6 mwf
f ~ For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels ,
Ditto Herring and MacVarel.
: Smoaked Herring in barrels and ksgs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or single one
Dry C»dfifh, from one to -fifty kentals
Fine and eoarfe Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the ftooe
and ground, for manure and stucco-work
December r tth&f
JUST ARRIVED,
By the Danilh fliip Friendlhip, captain Matzen, from
Oporto,
Red Port Wine,
a In Pipes, Hogsheads anJ Quarter-Casks,
150 Boxes of Lemons,
llk (For Sale by
Philips, Cramond Ss 5 Co,
01 February 9 ' §New Theatre.
THIS EVENING, February »?,
TX7.IM. bc preferred, (for the third time) a celebrated
VV NEW COMEDY, (written by the author of Colum
bus» ihe Children in the W«§d, &c.) called
The Way to get Married.
performed at Covent-Garden Theatre 39 nights, without
intcrmiflion, the fir ft feafbn ; and since, upwards of 150
nights, with unbounded applause.]
Tangent, Mr. Moreton Ned, Mr. Bliflett
Toby Alfpice, Mr. Harwood Postillion, Mr. T. Warre 1 !
Capt. Faulkner, Mr. Cooper Undertaker, Mr. M'Donald
Ca;iltic, Mr. Warren Jailor, Mr. Mitchell
Dick DaAtall, Mr. Wignell Solicitor, Mr. Morgan
M'Queery, 'Mr. Prigmore Officer, Mr, Warr. 11
Landlord, Mr. Darley William, Mr. J. Darley
■Shopman, Mr. J. Warieli
Julia Faulkner, Mrs. Merry
, Clementina Alfpice, Mrs. Francis
Lady Sorrel, Mrs. L'Eftranjre
Fanny, Mrs. Doftor.
End of the Comedy,
A NEW ti mLLET D '.I<CE,
(Cempofed by Mr. Byrne) called
The Bouquet.
I* which will be introduced, the favorite
tambourine DANCE.
The principal by Mr. and Mrs. Byrne, Mr. Warrell,
jun. and Mils Milboume
To which will be added, a Farce in two ealled
The Village Lawyer.
Scout, Mr. Harwood Justice Mittimus, Mr.Warrei
Snail, Mr. Francis blucpface, Mi. Bliffctt
Charles, Mr Darley, jr.
Kate. Mrs. Doflor. Mrs. Seout, Mrs. L'Ellrangc.
* m * The Public are informed, that
there will be no performance on Wv.lnefday, cm ac
count of the preparations for
THE GRAND PANTOMIME OF
The Death of Capt. Cook ;
t Which will be brought forward on Thursday next,
under the direction of Mr. Byrne—with s?sw Seen
ery, Drefles and Decorations.
Box, One Dollar twenty-five cents. Pit Seven Eighths
of a Dollar, and Gallery, half a dollar.
Coliege-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical) and Entertaining,
TO-MORROIV E VENING,
TUESDAY, February 21,
At 7 o'clock,
Will be recited, I
The GEh IU Sos AMERICA, -
ANODE, r
Inscribed to hiiExcellency George Washington. b
after which,
Seletflions from the most interesting scenes in the
Tragedy of a
Venice Preferv'd. I
Tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfon, jun. at the Library ;
atmr. M'Elwee's lookirig-glafs-ftorc, No. 70, S. Fourth
■ftreet; and at Mr. Carey's, BookfeUer, Market-street
Half a dollar each. /
WANTED, "
Pennfy'ivania Bank Shares, p
For which Gajh, cr *ppr»ved Notes at 60 days, will C '
be fiven, at the option of the Seller. V
February 20—$ Apply at this office. &
For Sale, G
ATRAC 1 0 F L AN D, fc
CONcaining 320 acres, in Harford county, 5 miles dif- oi
tant from Belle-Air, 27 from Baltimore : the im- rc
-provements are, a two-ilory brick dwelling-home, finifli- v
ed in a genteel mainer, with stone kitchen and cellar; *
a barn, and other convenicnc out buildings; a GRISI'- ''
MILL, lately built, in a good stand f.r country or mer
chant work ; apple-erchard and other fruit-trees; 30 a- ci
eres of prime timothy meadow ; and nearly as much more
may be made from ths conveniency of watering; So acres
of woodland, well timoered. The fields are well'laid off,
and under good fence : the litiution is very pleasant and C<
■ healthy. The whole »f this property may be had for so
35«ol. Two thirds in hand, and the remainder in easy ol
payments, 22j01. would be taken, all caih, Possession cc
might bejliad in 60 days after contract, and an indisputa
ble title given by ROBERT BRYARLY. 01
February 4o
— g<
Sales at the Horse-Market. ■ P;
On iTcdnefclay, the lid injl. at I I o'clock, ( l
Will be f»ld, be
A pair of Grey Horses and an Elegant hl
Coachee, u
With plated Harness, complete. The Horses ate in their j 3 '
in good order, and go {equally well in carriage, ia
chair ajad saddle : Che Coachee is partly new, and ip-per- he
-feA repair EDWARD POLE, auctioneer. th
N. B. The Coachee and Horses will be shewn on appli
cation at the office oi the Philadelphia Gazette, No. 29 i
Chefnut street. February 20 tf
■ _ en
Robert Smith & Co. gr
No. 58 South Front-jlreeti «
HAVE FOR SALE, /£
A Quantity of Long Nankeens, wl
ALSO,
An assortment of India Goods, yu
AMONG WHICH ARE, go
Bandanos j
Pullicates
Slsck and colored Pcrfians wf
Gurrahs ha
Punjams th
Baftae., pr ,
Coffaes
Humhims, ike. together with
A general assortment of European Goods
Suitable for the ensuing leafon.
February 20 mw&fjw
For CHARTER,
the Danish brig ' '
Friendship,
Lorentz Matzen, Mtijhr, TT
A strong, new veffeh, with a Mediteiraofian Fafs.bur- J
then about 240 tons. For terms apply to
' February 19 —§ PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co. 1 1
Notice. A (
THE ELEPHANT will leave town positively ear- '
'.y in March. ,
Adirittanie —one quarter of a dolJar. ]
Children—half price. j
N. B. An ELEPHANT TOOTH weighing 54
pounds to be fold. Enquire it the place where the°Ele
{.hznt is kept.
l r eb. 10. d ]
From the ( Harr\jlurgh) ORACir.
cd THOMAS PAINE,
m- I have read your angry letter to George "VVafh
itigton, and cannot but confefs that appearances
arc somewhat againfl the General, and indeed the
iut whole American people, in having made no at
-3 tempt to rescue their old friend from tilt mercilels
clutches of the little J.icobin, Robespierre. But my
1( good fir, lam sure you will excuse us, when I in
ld form you, that our apathy 'to you, w 4l entirely
1 owing to our admiration of the glorions caufc in
which you were a&ing so itiuftrioßs a part. Yes,
flr, to our enthusiastic admiration of gallic virtue
y and patriotism. I fee you are forprized. But have
a little patience. You mull know, (him, that in the
"excels of our zeal, we had adopted the maxim (fo>
hoirtd when applied to a despot, hut so charming
when applied- to the people) thill " the French i
could do no wrong," and of course tvery ißflafure ■
th<*y took was faiifiified, as if coming from Heaven 1
itfelf. ' T Vox populi, Vox Dei," you know.
It is true, indeed, that during the eontells ofy«ur ;
j patriots, we were alwjyi confoundedly muzzled to 1
find who was in the rijjht, 'till the gonlian knoc [ '
was cut by the guilietiwe ; and then, ir, all our
douhts vanished in an inflant. Hsnce tlis tremen- '
; dons instrument, which obtained so nany nick
names in Frauce, was literally the chopper of our :
logic> our unanswerable logician,- and iifaliidle cii- c
tenon of moral and political reftitude. '
lt Thus, for a long time, we were fimjle enough '
to foppofe that Louis the XVlth, thoigh a king, f
wa» a patriot. But his fad fate, at length, convinced c
us of our error. Briffot and his party «ext became a
j our idols ; but the guillotine, by takrHf off (in a
bout 30 minutes, I think it was, fir,) and '
1- twenty of these philefophical noddies 01 the revolu- a
ttonary Qjaixotes, transferred the palm of civifm to. 1
Robespierre and hisaffociates. And long did they
_ reign unrivalled in «ur affe&ions. Yes, "fir, in the '
very height of the " Age of Rreafsir," at the very *
time, as yau tc:l us, this sanguinary democ*at was *'
taking his viftims by hundreds in a night, cut »f
the Luxembourg, and guillotining them before the 1
next evening. At the very moment perhaps that lie F
was penning the sacrilegious memorandum, which 1
devoted you to the guillotine, " for the interest of
America as u .-11 as Fiauae," (as the fly rogue ex- v
prcfiei it) we were toafling him in our civic cups,
$ and crying him up as the paragon of patriots and *
republicans. Tis true, we heard of your deplora
ble cafe ; but we then thoii_jht you no better than
Briffot and the reft cfyour ariftocrafical colleagues,
and who the Devil could fnppofed, that you r
would at lall have out patrioted the author of your l '
imprifunmcnt, and have emerged, to. unite your
voice to that of the guillotine, to tell us what'a do«
' he w-s ! 6 I
You make a terrible pothp about your being an
American citizen, your being a constitution-monger
in Fraace notwithstanding. But how in the name 0
of w«nder were we to have fufpefled this, Mr. "
Paine, after the affair of G'deon Henfield ? If, how- c
ever, we have committed a mistake in the bus.ness,
you have to thank the new do&rine of expatriation "
for it. A defirine which has been very current
aTiroKg-üB-«iictrmc-inrre or urener-arra tnrWofetaiS r
Gideon. Upon this new fanglcd system, one never "
knows where to have you. You may be a citizen
of America to-day, a fubjeft of England to mor- 111
row, and a citizen of France ®n the-day following. ®
For as you have wifely observed of nations, that h:
they have only to will it to be free, and they are so;
so a man now a days, has only to will it to be a tc
citizen of any country he pleases, and he is one.
And after the brilliant fceues in which you were
engaged at Paris, we took it for granted, you will
ed to be a citizen of France, and ttiould have as
foott dreamt of your being an American citizen, as
of commodore Barney's being one, with his three
colour'd cockade, and cavalier menaces of taking m
our veflels wherever he can catch them. •
But though I have hitherto been in the apolo- ba
getieal (tile, I have a crow to pluck with y«u, Mr. T
Paine, before I leave you. Don't yau think, then]
(though you are as equality man) that you have th
been rather rough with a character which Hands so all
high in the world as that of the Preiident of the llc
United States? If indeed you have the claims of In
private friendihip upon him, which yau fay yau lts
have, I have only to lament, that it is so, and that tr<
hers unfortunately in the predicament described in wi
the proverb, which fays : « He that olays with a a! 1
dog will be bitten by fleas." 'Tis an homely one, kl
Icon fefs ; but between republicans, 'twill do well tel
enough, and you are a dealer in proverbs and epi- 8°
grams. cr
You conclude your epistle with remarking, that th
« the world will be puzzled to decide, whether be th
(Gen. Washington) is an apostate or an impostor, re '
whether he has abandoned good principles or whe- tH
ther he ever had any." Sappofe before you put
your cafe, y»u had ascertained what true liberty and ial
good principles are. From your known abilities, ki
do you not think it would have much assisted the
world in making their decision ? But though you
have not thought proper to do it, I have »a doubt,
that all good men will thir.k it a necessary enquiry, co
previous to a determination of your queflion. ln
American Republican. ,J ' ;
Marrifburgh, February, 1797. oe
HARRISBURGH; February 8.
The Free Debating Society of Harvifburgh m et fi,i
next Monday evening, at Mr. Montgomery's.— lel
The question for the evening is " What can be ' ai
proposed, wiich, if carried i«-to effeft, would prove tio
most beneficial to Harrifburifh ?" th.
50 boxes Spermaceti ~ do
A few dozen ot Engliih Porter in fmail casks,
I bale cf Cloalc Camblets, Hair-bines, Crapes, Poplins,
Sattinet, Laftmg, &c. &c. ch
A few ftnaU packages of Calcutta and Madrafe Goods,
ccnfifting or Pungim Cloths, Gurrahs, Humhiims, wl
Guzenahs, Tickerys, B.ftas, Co flaw, Baihar, Baai- Fr
danna and P.Jljcat Handkerchief,, Choppi Romals,
Putna Chintz and TafTatie» ;
1 bag of black Pepper, and t box of w hitc Sugar :
For SALE, by 6 ' wh
JOSHUA GILPIN, (Jia
_ , >Ne. 149, South Front-street.
February jo. -
k'" j >
FRENCH REPUBLIC.
€0 UN Cll, OF FIVE HUNBK ED.
251 Biumaire, Nov. 19.
1 he report yellerday prefcuted by Danr.su, on
jfh- the made of renewing a third of the convention, and |
ices ° n the mode of dirfributing the new deputies named
the by the departments, is a specimen of wifdorn, im
partiality, and the most deliberate refleftieu. He
lels spoke upwards of two hoHi s, and prcfented a num
my ber of conliderations appropriate to the fubjedt, but
jn- which it is impoifible to give in detail,
ely The firft queflion he oonfidered was—WJiether,
in on the principle of the decree which unites Belgium
cs, to France, the nine departments who took no fbare
tue in the last cle&ion, ought on the firft of Germinal
jvc to name the whole number of deputies whom rhey 1
t| )e are authoiifed choofe in confequencc of the ex- '
tf 0 , tent of their papulation ? 1
ng- He referred to tiu conflitution ; which deter- 1
lC h rtsines, that the lcgiflative body Uiall be renewed ?
lre I one-third every year ; in confcquence, 250 mem- {
en ! hers go o»'. on the jft Germinal; if ci'devant i
j Belgium should app«ir;t the whole number of depu- i
mr ; "« » proportion to us population, it would fend
t0 ! 22; the number of members to quit the legislative r
i ot body would in amount to ■infteacl of
ur : 2 7 2 > the number of those received would ex- t ]
>r) . I ceed the thirdftipulated by theconftitutlon. f,
k. The reporter admitted that the departmentuni
ur ted to the republic, from the moment of union, ac
quired an inconteftible right :a crtucur in t-he fe-r- 1
mation of the lcgiflative body ; i.ut the Pinion of
jh Belgium is porterior to the convocation of the lalt
g> afTemblics; the right of appointment could
on 'y apply to what had not yet been determined,
and not to what had already been ascertained
a Cannon then entered into a long explanation of
id principles which had influenced the committee,
u_ and concluded witii proposing a plan on the follow
-10 ing grounds :
.y i. Diawing by lot on the 15th Ventofe, be cn
st . the ex-conventionalists who nre to go out, but Jraw
ry with ctfpc£l to the wholj iiuaiticv of
KS iind not by depuration.
B f 2. Concurrence of all the departments, including
le . the United departments, to form a third of the de
ie ptities ui proportion to the extent of their pspula
.j, tione.
ot J- . Declaration Containing that, in conformity
1- with the constitution, all the citizens who were not
s> members of the lad ele&oral aflemblies, cannot be
this year named el'Sors.
3 . Ordered to be printed. . '
in 1 Frimaire, Nov. 21. j,
Sj Richard, the organ of a commiflion, presented a
lhl report npon the means of fuppi effing robberies an'd
1T burglaries, which have of late multiplied to an iH
finite extent.
g
Extradl of the process verbal of the fitting as the
lB 10th Frimaire, Nov, 30. (Official.)
;i The Executive Direftory admitted into the hall
ie "f its fitting the prince of Belmonte-Pignatelli,
r . minister plenipotentiary of the king of the two Si
cilies. He made the following speech.
s> . she king my mafterorders me, citizens •direc
n t9r *' to confirm to you his fentimens of sincere
lt friendfhip and high consideration of"the French re
-51 *-* wftiy jutt c«nt«mea"viiTr ~
, r iraufmit them fvfiemnly to prosperity. Fulfilliug this
n honorable task, and fulfilling it towards you, whose
inodera'ion and wifdotn are personally known to
, air, my mind looks joyftllly -forwatd, and forms the
it j"ppieft preiagrs for the general peace of Europe.
. Miy this peace soon reconcile, solidly, the grand in
a terclls cf nations, and cro-wa the wishes of bomani
ty I"
e ie P'efident, Barras made the followinff an
swer : "
s Monfcigtfeur, the minister plenipotentiary of the
» ln S ° L le | wo Siciliej, the Executive Direftory «s
- lleard w ith fatisfafiioc the affedlionate fen'i- Vlh
l ments you teftify to it on thp part of the king of Vi£
the two Sicilies. AfTure him, Monfeigneurthe sm
- aflador ' °/ a fi"«re fiiendflup knd attachment. J
i 1 iis P rom, fo 'S inviolable ; it is founded on finceri
thf fiHt of "'publican virtues. Up to .his time
, the victories of tue French nation have attradfed
> alltheittention of astonished Europe Therepub- "
. he is known by its laurels and its triumphs oi»'y. rea,
f In peace übe will ft,U admired by the constancy of beli
t its friendlhip and its fidelity in the execution of a 'oo
t treaties. The Executive Dire&ory ihvites, by its to '
, wilhcs that day of peace, that delightful day, when
1 ai .' the hostile governments, after the example of the
, king of the two Sicilies, abjuring their horrid fyf- t)wr
j tem, will at length confeut to extinguish the blood thir
■ K oieti tljr chi sos difccrd ; and these wilties will be rea<
crowned if all the ministers cbirgcd to bring about
t thl3 S en f ral peace, bring into this honorable mrffion are
, the L'ntiments, and the zeal you have employed in
, re.cilablilhing a good uaderftauding between the ' • C " i
two nations." , nia
t In the public fitting, the minister for foreign as- to'c
j fairs count Balb«, ansbifiador of bis majelly the wh<
, king .of Sardinia, who exprefTed hjmfelf tbus ; Ext
. " CITIZENS DIRECTORS,
I " T ' !c k 'og my master has never been ;he ene
, m y of y°' Jr nation, dr of y«,, r govenment. A- " ot
, concurrence of tinforuinate circsmilances put arras T"
in his hands. In the course of the warfare he has Z
been necessitated to wage, he has conftintly been my
dciiroui of peace. As loon as the happy moment pf'(
arrived, he forrendered himfelf to you without le- de£j
icrve, and without any other security than his good
t faith and yours. You have since done justice to bis '
. feniiments and his conduct; he makes iou a Ami
. ar return. Hisintereft, which is that of his na- a !^ c
. tion, commands him to be attached to you ; and aw ii
ihe intercft of Fiance, citizens directors, without this
doubt, makes ydii desirous to fui round youriclves mat
\vith friends. The friendfhip of the two states is sum
, 1, L lcreforc placed on the most solid baiis. I am caf!l
charged to cultivate it ; and to the end that there n !
' ma y cno difficulty, to disavow the proceedings fi r ft
, which have taken place with refpeft to the iaft luab
French ambassador. foBI
1 I have the honor to present to you my creden- "tere:
tials. You will find in them the confidence with dire
which my king honors me. By meriting yours, I "
shall endeavor to jollify his choice. 0 yeai
Reply of the Pi efident.
"M. the ambaffadar of the king of Sardinia, the valu
principle* of moderation of the Prince 0 f P'-j
h» prepared for the king of S-rdini, the
of the French nation. It is therefor, . • l cm
on . fatisfa&ion that the executive diredtory" adoubic
and teftiraony he gives of his attacl » ent to ik"'*" ' he
Tied he. Affufehim M. the ambassador , rc P ub ~
ltn- find from the French government a'• a W) "
He the feutiraents of friendfhip he has chargcTyo™
nm express. OLao La you to
but " May the love of peace, th? m,,
king of Sardinia now tastes, jwnetratr"", t wh,ch the
ler, the .heartof all the enemies of the mp,e »
the cries of humanity, and the calamW i ! Ma y
warn them that enough and too mi,r h fu ° llat!on8 >
* ,e fortunately inundated the earth !If t h» °°''' hat un<
na! forts the French nation have made to malm!""''" 8 ef I
ley qaeft of its liberty, open the ' C
ex- by v,Tories there is a more pJ M / jng t ,
more worthy of its grandeur. It is that ,
er . magnanimity, removing the veil from'<'»«" 1' •',?
place all the nations in the lift of it- j " V T' 11
l d j"ftjoyfully engraved there the king J w
m " republic is a stranger to policy ; r - TU
of j hasentrufted to you the task of main.LL
harmony between the two nations. Be w, f /° d
that the diredtory will facilitate to you all rkf ed
fulfilling this honorable million." meAns
it-
1C " LONDON.
i ***s&&££?**
H '°'°°° ° 6 tZ* <"**«**.
j ]P& to augmentations.
7,500 ° ° rt"a a Joffi n,eSl ° re<JutedW
r OlllCtf 18,
' sZ's°°5 Z 's°° O o upou account of do.
e ' 4>s°° o o for Scotch roads
5 4 gMrdt"""" borfj
• " B'B7t 8 ' 87t ' 6 ' of I,M f„.
i— ces " 1, 0 marines.
for quartering foldicrs.
S 0 O for full pay t0 r _
officers. * 7 PtrnUlnCrar r
"" 1,000 ° ° f-officers Wei" the fe,vice 0 f
he ftatcs general.
I '7 » for aiWancrs t» '
neral, secretary at war, & c "
>e «5M73 I 7 for oidii.ary of the navy
. 768,10® O O for buildings and rebuild!,-,, of
Mips of war.
1,009,024 9 2 far ordrnoce land fervicf no,
a .114,553 '9 9 ordnance ! a ,J f er , i ' ce>
provided for in i^oc.
73. 8 30 o 3 for ordnancefeafcrvice iiotpta.
vided for in
425,366 to 6 for ordnance land service, not
' e provided for iu 1796.
7,000 o O for the civii. ftaUifhment of the
! * province of Upper Canada.
5,915 O o for the civil etfablifliment of No.
va-Scotia.
4.553 o o for the civil eftablifoment of '
New Brunfwick.
e lijoo <3 c fur the civil efUbliflimert of the
TT' " " r"R >r\ " r *
O oTor the civil establishment of
' b Cape Breton,
e 1,232 10 o for the civil eftabliftment of
0 Newfoundland.
4, ico o o for the civil e.lablilhment of the
Bahama islands.
580 o o for the falirry of the chief jvif.
tice of Bermudas.
600 o o for the '{alary of the chief jus
tice of Dominica.
5>5 2 3 10 0 for the civil-cflablifliment, &c.
e of New South Woles.
f tm ""I*l* HJIL'JM.; _■ ■
AND
• PPhiladelphia Daily Advertijer.
PHILADELPHIA, FebruarTTO.
! . COiMML'NfCA^rON.
Thomas Paine's writings have been pxteniively
. read, and have persuaded great numhci s 111 Europe to
f believe that kingiy government is bad and ought to be
f a'oolifhed. The chief argument to bring kis readers
, to this .conclusion is this—the .American form is iuc
rpAfiil and fVvrc ig -*'wl
His letter to the Frelident has spoiled all this fine
w.ork of making pro/elytes to Republiranifm. For in
• that he rrprsfeo's our Conftit'jton as a poor, flirnfy
1 thing, a bad Copy of a corrupt original, and iti'elf al
; ready corrupted and degejierate.
Yet this writer and the Democrats of this country
! are the vfcry lou/ieit accusers of the Federali/is as Anu
repoblican. As the Federaliijs maintain the rfouti
tioii of a Republican form apd the Democrats calum
niate it, the charge one would think rryglff be strongly
retorted tlias. Citizen Dem.orrat*, who is nioft likely
• to change our Republican form of government, you
who do not like it, or we who do ?
Extradt of a letter from HariiJburg, ( Safquehaiina)
Feb. 9th, 1797.
" After a long and severe wirfter," and a colder ha*
not been many years past, we-have th£ple3fure of an- .
nouncing to the public the retreat of General be, jvni»
for Several weeks has closely blockaded bs, and laid
the country unsier contribution.—This common ene
my to our commerce, began his retreat at the jpJjruach
of'GeneraVTbaau, oil the 3d inft. by partial aild fnull
detachments, and we have reai'on to expeet trom his
progreffivc arrangements thjt his retreat wdl be order
ly, and with as little devlftatiou, as tHe nature of cir-
CUmfiaricessviU permit.—As usual however a vast num
ber of »ld fettUrs and planters have been carried oif;
auiong variety of thinga f'' I "Jfi"''
as non-ooond box, diirefledfor Ha vrc-ile-C-race, with
this curious label on the?outfide : " A receipt how to
make powder for proje&ors, which will re&ity the
fumes of an empty itomach; and »i!spate their airy
caftlcs."—This extraordinary appearance being d*'t6«
ed to a refpe<Slable company in or near Havre-de-
Grace, it will be forwarded to the proprietors by the
fir ft fafc conveyance, and we cannot doubt but its va
luable consents will be comnaun'catcd to the public as
soon as the nature of the cale will admit, by the dinu
terefted, patriotic and enlightened body to whom it is
direiled. ■ .. , , „
" N. B. A box of this defcriptinn was advertiled UK
year, and a cor.fiderable reward was offered to e
paid in either Morris' and Nicholfons rot s, or • -
son's notes, but there is great reafbti to believe in.t
valuable property hsj act beea recovered.On Friday last the House of Reprefentativej of
this Commonwealth waited on the President of the
United States with the following Address :
To GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prudent of the
United States.
The address of the House ot Representatives of
the commonwealth of Pcaufylrania, in general af
femblv met.
SIR,
When we contemplate the near approach of your
retirement from public to private life, as announced
to yourfellnw-citizens, in your address of the 17th
of September last ; we- Ihould be wanting in duty
to our own feelings, and rhofc of our constituents,
if we did not cordially embrace thi* last occasion,
to join the grateful voice of the American Nation,
in the acknowledgment as your long services and
patriotic labors, in the atchievement ef our inde
pendence, and the eftablithment and maintenance of
our peace, liberty and fafety.
In the house where we now deliberate, eould we
be (ilent, its walls, if they had utterance would tef
tify for us that they beheld you seated in our fir ft
Congress, and, at their call, rising undaunted to lead
our infant armies to viftory or death, in the cat)fe
of iilieity and our country. They beheld you
again, after the issue of that perilous, but auspici
ous combat, seated in the fame house, and prefixing
eminently illoftrious, among the illuttrious band of
statesmen and patriots, who framed theprefent hap
, py conllitution of the Union.
We forbear, fir, a detail of your services, as well
before, as since, the commencement of the revoluti
on. Weic we adequate to the task, it would fall
more properly within the province of some future
hittorian, who cannot be fulpe&ed of personal af
fection, or public prejudice.
It is our present dnty only to express our grate
ful sense of your general fetvice"s. Prudent, firm
and magnanimous in war ; never despairing of the
public fafety in the word of times, nor elated by
success in the best ; confiding in, and confided by
youi> country, td lis great ell advantage ; glcurioufly
* relbquifhing your military charadter, when the
great national ptirpofes for which it was afiumed,
left yon at liberty to seek your beloved retirement ;
with equal glory, quitting that retirement, at
the call of your country to execute its councils and
commands in time of pemce-r-the faithful guardiah
and intelligent organ of its laws ; maintaining its
freedom, averting its honor and independence; and
at last, when in jour best judgment, without an
abatement of love for your country, you conceived
that the time was come, when you might be fafely
imltilgetj in a final return to that retirement which
your years and services meiited : then bequeathing
the fruits of your wisdom and experience in a fare
>,well address, the maxims and precepts of which,
we trult, will ever be regarded, as the richest legacy
of a father to hischildrenand latest posterity.
The fame ardent affeiiian whicb leads os, reluc
tantly, to acqu'efce in your approaching retirement,
commands nur fervent withes—that you may enjoy
in this world the utmolt felicity of your heart, in
beholding the perpetual prosperity of our country,
under a fuceeflion of wife and virtuous statesmen
and rulers, animated by your example ; and that
when you are called from this woiltj, you may be
rewarded by th; unbounded tulieiiy ot the world to
eome.
GEORGE LATIMER, Spealer.
To the House of
wealth of Penrfylvania.
GENTLKMtN,
T he kindness of my fellow-citizens has given
me frequent occasion to make my acknowledgments
for their expressions of confidence, attachment and
affection ; and for the honorable testimonies that my
pnbhc cares.and labors have been ufeful to my
country.
With great fatisfaftisn I receive your additional
testimony, .that as a public man I have not lived in
vain.
Though now seeking that repose whicfc retire
ment and the traßquil purfyit ofrutal affairs arc cal
culated to ahoid, and which my tunc of life requires,
the love ot my country will indeed fufter no abate*
jnent ; its fafety and prosperity will be eifential to
•he enjoyment of my remaining- years. And 1 con
fide 111 the discernment and patriotism of my fellow
citizent; lor the choice of wife and virtuous men,
who will faccelliveiy a<'mimfter every branch of the
der.ee, to insure the general happiness.
I'or your affectionate withes tor my present and
future felicity, Gentlemen, my cordial
" thanks.
WASHINGTON.
Ihe following is extradted from a morning pa
per ; it is therein given as part of the speech of
Mr. Swatiwick, and shews the present opinion of
that gentleman, relative to the Welt Indies He
fays, " the Weft-Indies where all government was
retrograding into the state in which it flood an hun.
died years ago, .vhere all men were converted into
BiiccaneeiS) blacks and- whites, and all the interme
diate Ihndes ; where governors from France were no
sooner landed than they were rt fliippecl as live lum
ber and sent back again."
CONGRESS of the UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Thursday, January 19.
The Hook being in a coirmittec of the whole on
the fubjeft of furtiaer revenue, Mr. Dent in the
chair.
Mr. Swift fa id he had all along been opposed to
as} ftera of diieft taxation, believing it possible to '
raise the revenue wanted from indireft sources, and •
determined never to have Vecourfe to direst taxes,
unless the situation of the country was such as to 1
make it necessary to apply to that faurce. i
He should still have continued his opposition to 1
iirt& taxes, had it not been for information which y
he had received that the posture of foreign affair. 1
was such, as to threaten the cutting off of our '
sources of revenue arising from foreign commerce. 1
It was, not neceffaty to go into a confutation of 5
this matter. It was enough to fay, that there war
a probsbiii'y of a part, a very cenfidcrablc part of 1
f our revenues arising from commerce brtne; cut off- i
e U.iderthefe circuailtances it appeared necessary, to
have recourse to such taxes as were not within the
e power of foreign nations to annoy ; for this f»ur
pofe, he believed it would be proper to enter upon
f afy item of direct taxes. It was necessary, at leatt
to begin to make the arrangements ; and, if not
ultimately requisite to be adopted, it might be laid
aside ; but he believed the situation of the country
r was such, as to make it proper for them to fettle a
i plan for laying a direst tax. Upon this principle
\\ only, had he changed his jpinion, and intended to
y vote for the resolution ; but he thought before the
~ lefolution was agreed to, it should be amended
, The refolutioit, as it then flood, he said, wrnt to
, the apportioning, " according to the last cei.fus,
j the following diredt taxes." He did not believe it
_ would be right to apportion a diredt tax according
f to the last census ; for when they attended to the
n|Cieafeof population ir. some Hates, and to the tta• :
» tionary fitnation of others, no one would fa\ ihat
fucfi En apportionment would be right. In the
| Hates of Kliode Island, Gonmilicutt, Delaware,
] and New Jersey, there had been bus little increase;
• in all the other Hates the increase had been greater,
j I hey ought theiefore to have recourse to a differ
ent mode. If they wcie to attend to the situation
r of two dates in particular the injuftioe would appear
t clear. In the last census, Connedtieutt was esti
mated to contain *40,000 inhabitants, and New-
York 340,000 Since that time, he said, the state
| of Comicdiicutt 'had increased very little, but the
state of New York, was increased at lcaft to 500,000
| so that Connefticutt had not more than 250,000,
■ wiiilft New York had double the number. In the
report of the Secretary of the Treasury, Connecti
cut! was apportioned 93,000 dollars of the
ted tax, and New York 140,000 ; the latter be
ing only about 40,000 dollars more than the form
er,, though it contained double the number of in
habitants. He would therefore, move to strike out
the words, " last census," and to insert, " accord
ing to their numbers."
He believed that no gentleman would deny the
justice of the amendment. Some objedtion, perhaps,
might be made against it on the ground of expence ;
but he believed he should be able to remove these
objections. Before the tax be laid, he said,
there must be a valuation of property, and when re
gulations were made for that purpafe, they might
alto be made for taking an enumeiation ofihe inha
bitants, in which cafe the expence wtmld only be
trifling, and therefore no objection could be urged
on that ground, and the justice of the measure was
evident, iiuee no gentleman could approve of any
plan whi.h fhuuld clu'ge two dates in the ratio of
14010 100, when their true ratio was as tyvo to
one. He hoped, therefore, the amendment would
be adopted ; and if so, he Ihould have no objection
to vote for the refohition.
r * wilhej the gentleman had not brought
forward his amendment in the present stage of the
butinefs, as it would prove a clog Hpon the discussion
ot the merits of the question, as all arguments must
now go merely to the propriety of adopting or re
jecting the amendment ; whereas, if the .•mend- I |
ment was withdrawn for the present, and, fTthe re
solution was carried, the amendment was introdu
ced 11. tl.e liuufc, the dilcuttion "would go oil Ull- '
embat rafled ; and if the lefolution was not ugreed
to, ir would be unncceffary that any amendment
should be then added to it. It had been said, that
a t xon laud was a reproach to a republican go
vernment ; ne wifhe.l an opportunity to be afforded
<>f P r o v ' n gi that a direct tax on land was more ccn
fonart to republican ttjan any «ther. He
hoped the gentleman would withdraw his motion.
Mr. Maoiion laid he thought the amendment a
proper one ; it went to generalize the piopofitioo,
by It 1 iking out the words prapofed, and u.-uld ren
dei i? appropriate to the time of the law going into
effett. If the tax were to be apportioned accord
ing to numbers, it must be accardjng to the num
bers as lati legally afcci-tained by cenfns. If no
new ce>.fus we e taken before the aft took place,
then the last must be the guide ; but if a new ce»-
fus, then that must be the guide. For these rea
foiis, he was in favour of the amendment.
Mr. W. Smith enquired if this question had not
already been decided, by a motion made by the
gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Christie.)
1 he Chairman laid it ia at in the house and not
in the committee of the whole that the former
(i ..vaToirtTaJtrt £ .r-bi~m S f,f'R>™ l ,rd, -
Mr. W. Smith said ' ke h®ped the propofi.ion
would not be agreed to, bccaufe it would defeat
the Whole buliuefs ; and he would chufe, if it were
to be defeated, that it should be defeated dire&ly
and not indirefily. If it wcre the ob j eift of ' j
tlemen to take a new census, it would efTeaually
defeat the intention of the bill. He hoped there
fore, they should not waste their timeiin the pres
ent difcuffton, but determine the question whether
or not the principle fliould be agreed to.
Mr. Madison said he did not know to whom the
gentleman referred when he said there seemed to
be an intention of defeating the bill ; he could af
iure him it was not his inteotion. He wished to
Rive 1 lie proposition the fullelt discussion, that the
real disposition of the house might be known. The
amendment, he said, would not have the effe£tihat
the gentleman supposed. If it was thfc intention of
the icgiuature to have a new census, it might be
taken in time ; but he did not believe a new census
would-be taken; and, if not, the apportionment
must be according to the last, because there would
be no other rule ; but, if there should be another
who would fay it ought not to be conformed to >
It it could be really supposed that there was an>
intention to defeat the original proposition by this
amendment, it certainly Would not have his nation
age.
Mr. Swift said he did not mean to embarrass the p
measure, but to facilitate it. He believed the ob- v
jedhon he wished to remove would make the refo- I '
ut:»n more agreeable to a great many member*! n
who would objeft to vote for it in its prefei.t form. '
W|]en the commit! ee of ways and means brought I
in a bill, they would make fnch legulatiops as they r
thought proper ; but if the refolmion were to be c
agr ".,. tG ln lts Fefert form, it would preclude all a
poi,.oi.i!y of having a new eenfus, if it should be 1
lound expedient.
1 I
f- | Mr Havens doubted whether tjic motion of tlir
a I gen:lcrsun from Connecticut w»s ttcuniii
e j tucional. He read an extraft from the 30 fe&ioti
> ; of the lft article of the conltitution, in thefc words,
n i " The a&ual enumeration ftiall be made within
it thiee years after the firft meeting of the Congress
t ofthe United States, and within every subsequent
d term of ten years, in £uiih manner as they (hail by
y lawdireA and the 4th claufo of the 9th feftion
a of the fame article, "No capitation, or other direfl
e tax, (hall be bid, unlefsin proportion to the census
0 or enumeration herein before directed to be tak
e en." By these words, lie said he, understood, that
- direst taxes could not be levied, exeept according
» to a census to regulate the representation, which
> mull he rcken once in ten yeais.
t Mr S. Smith said this had 'ween deaided
J in the house and lie trulled it would again be re
c jedted. He recollected when the la«t ceufus was ta
ken, it ivqs attended with eonfiderable difficulty,
t Maay ot the inhabitants in the country were Ger
- mans, and they were fufpieious that some bad pur
-1 pose was intended by the measure. In taking a
; new census, for the purpose of a rax they would
• holdout to the people a temptation to return their
■ numbers less than they really were ; whereas, when
1 a census was taken for the purpose of ascertaining
the number of representatives to which they were
entitled, the people were interested te make th»ir
• numbers as Urge as poflible. Nor would it be pof
• fible to get at th&fuil number of the people, whew
they were interested in withholding them. Indeed
> he fhoulcl not be surprised, if a census should be
> taken for the purpose proposed, if it proved less
than the former one. He gav« his ditTent to the
proportion when is was before them in the house,
and he saw no reason far changing his opinion.
Mr. fiulland could hardly suppose the gentleman
from New-York (Mr. Havens) serious, when he
doubted the conftiiutionality of taking a new cer
fus. Great alterations mull certainly have taken
place in seven years ; and he doubted not many
would vote for the system of dire# taxes, if it coatd
be made t® bear tolerably equal, but not otherwise.
Mr. Sewall said the amendment proposed, was
merely a verbal one ; for if a new census were to be
taken before the a£t went into execution, the appoi
tionment mull be regulated by it, whether the words
were Itruck out or not ; and if a new one were not
taken, the apportionment mull be made by the
old census. It a census were to be taken, hi said,
it mult ba returned and approved by Congress, be
fore any tax could be apportioned by it. If re.
prefeniation and taxation were connected together,
he should have no objection to a new census
ta&eo ; but the term of the census not having ex
pired, if it was now nrcefTary to apportion a tax,
it mult be according to the Lft census. The *-
mendraent, however, being only veibul, it could
have no effeftou the refoluiion.
Mr. Nicholas said, ir he believed the amendment to
be of the very harmless nature which his colleague
( Mr. Madison) had fuppoled, he should noj have no
ticed it; but he believed it was or a more serious na
ture, is it would cause a d«!ay which m ! ght ruin the
buiititis, as no tax could be-apportioned upSn a census
it had gone into operation with refpe<sl to fixing
the i.arr.ber of representatives. He believed they had
jjj£-P QV ' er °* taking a census, bOt he thought it muff
TJe uTurrr me uoJcie purpole of tixafion ahdTxpr?- "
leiitaUiin, and not for taxation alone.
Mr. Gilbert fa id, there could be no question m,ore
txprefs and which would admit of less doubt, than that
representation and taxation mud go together The
cwniiuution diredlcd the cfnfus to betaken once in ten
year j, and when once taken, it aiuft remain to govern
until another was taken ; but whenever another cenf«s
ihouid be taken, the lax mult be apportioned.by that. '
.lmw ceulus, he said, could not Operate upon a tax
now agreed upon. Whether a new census fticuld be •
taken brfure tne appointed time was a different cmefticn
and was not at that time before them.
faid, if the gentleman from Connec
ticut ( Mr. Swift) was sincere in his profefiions of not
wifliiag toembarrafi the propofitien before them, he
would withdraw Ins amendment; feecaufe, if it meant
any thing at all, it went at least to delay the business
It could not b« denied that every dirtcf tax must be
apportioned acco lU ;« g to the last census taken accord- ,
IM£ lO law ; and if the gentleman's motion meant that
the propoicd tax ftauld nut belaid until,a new cer.fus
was taken, it would neceffanly put off the bufiaefs for
fcveral years, ihe gentleman seemed to think that a
cenlus cesld be taken for this purpafe «mly , but, Mr.
b. latd, ;t he understood the constitution, 011 this f.ib-
J ' no direct tax could be apportioned but according
| to the census taken for the purpose of apportioning the
- If a new census was taken, therefore,
IT must operate If this opin.cn was just,
and he had no doubt of it, the motion went to the
puttmj off a diredt tax, until a new census fhou'd be
, taken. 1, this was not erabarraffing the business, he
did not uiiderhaud the meaning of the term. Hebe- ]
: IV 11 CC " wh ' Ch WaS take " was nst carried
into effect till two years afterwards, and if a new one
were taken, it would probably take as long a time to
bring it ißteaaion, so that to carry the motion would
be in effea to put off the business for several Tears. <
he geutleii-an from Virginia (Mr.'Madison) tho't
a new census would not be taken before the direct tax
was aid; itfc, the motion was uf,-lefs. He hoped,
irH f ff e 'l Be ° min WOuld w ' l hdraw his motion,
m tlie face im P orta,lt question fully
Mt. Cert said if direst taxes were to be laid, he was
not prepared to fay whether the old, or a new census
should be made use of; but, if the carrying ef the pre
lent motion would remove one of the objectionsXV
was agamftthe meafurt, he could fee no reason why
it ought not to pass. The refoluiion expreftly said the
apportionment should be according t„ the last census
the prefer.t motun went to leave that undecided, to be
determined hereafter whether the old or a new census
ftould regulate the apportianment: he hoped, there
fore, it would be adopted.
Mr. Madison said if he had forefeen that the amehd
®e«t propefed could have been fuppoftd ,0
the measure, he should not have fecamlri 1. t
. . to I i( h
3&SS SSZXS-X'A' r*
not thu>k it was neeeffary to
... „ „i,je a ■
I mined up«n hereafter. Without it ,h* L r '
would be mere general. It wortld have
ratmnm one form as in the other, a „d no gentleman
tio^.^"^^ 'p r even^etTly 1 a pre Jadgment™f
:i< and therefore the debate was more about words than
j. .i> ance.
31] Mr. Murray thought the debate an the present
s qneftion a very trilling one, as the abftiaA princi-
j 0 pie was neeeflarily kept out of fight. If the a
ls mendment was agreed to, the apportionment mull
#t i>c made according to the last census, as a new t«o*
fua could not be taken for two years to come, many
n slates having already e!e£Ud their representatives ;
ft iF the gentleman from Conne&icut saw that the
JS amendment would be us. iefs, he trufied he would
not infill upon its being 1 decided upon.
Jt Mi. lfaac Smith said, he though, they might get
„ rid of all tbis debate very eatily. He wilhed th«
qucftion, whether they would lay iireft taxes or not
to be (imply taken, if a duett tax was determin.
<] ed upon, the detail of the business coold be fettled t
„ afterwards. He would therefore prop-.fc, if i'i ar
der, that the question (hould be put fnnply " Shall
/ we lay a direct tax."
[To be Continue/.]
r - GAZETTE Mi H INE LIST.
a ■■
d PORT OF PHILADELPHIA,
if ARRIVED,
n Ship Camilla, Williamfon, N. York, 8 day»
g Clothier, Gardiner, Dcnurara 23
e Elizabeth, Bray, Jamaica 34
r Brig Patty, Coffin, Boflon 60
Schooner Jay, Norton, do,
h Schr. Fanny, Veun, New Providence tl
d Sloop Harmony, Atkinfon, Curacoa 64
e CLEARED.
"s Ship Liberty, Bray, Londonderry
e Schr. Lovely Las«, Gibbun, Charls/ton
, Sloop Polly, Morney, , Baltimore
The brig Georgia Packet, fiomthis port forth#
ft Mole, it taken by the French, and condemned at
e Pott de Paix.
The letter bag of the (hip America, Capt.
u Ewing, for Hamburg, will remain at the P«ft-Of.
y sice until to-morrow afternoon.
i Nfw York, Feb. 18.—Yeftcrdaythe (hip Samp
. (en, captain Roach, arrived at this port from Lon
i don, from whence (he failed in company with ihe
e I'ranklin, which arrived fcveral days ago. Our pa.
. pers by the Sampson are to the dates before reeeiv.
8 cd, viz. December 9.
t By a letter from Cape Niehola Mole, received
e yesterday, we have an account of the arrival thera
f of major geiietal Siracoe, lately appointed governof
. of all the British acquitment in the island of St,
_ Uomingo.
, A letter from Cape NicWa M«le of 29th Jan,
i f »y»—
Ihe British will not ftifFer any vefTels to enter
( Cape l'rancois. A (hip bound there was ord «ed
. away, and is arrived here.
j We hear by capt. Gardner from Demarara, that
a party of Spaniards from Orpnoke River had late.
5 ly attacked and taken a pod at EiTeqpibu., lifon*
: ed by English an.*Dut. b troops!
NEW YORK, February
ARRIVED. Days,
s Ship Sampfori, Roach, London 6<S
* Brig Julia, Harrifon, St Ctoix >5
\ Prolper, Broad, Port au Prince 22
t Schr. Polly, Winchester, St. Thomas's c
CVfj>T. Klce ]p5T lßtd~Kl«le"Sf. i\l'cOolai oij iTje
24th | in. in dtftrefs. Upon information lodged
" Bgainit hin# as having Fiench property on board ;
1 the captain of the Queen, of 98 guns,' ordered his ,
j vellels unloaded and examined. Finding on exami
j Dation the information to be ungrounded, he was
, loaded again and thoroughly caulked at the eXpence
. of the British government by the order of captain
t, Dobfon, of the Queen, and uniformly treated with
: the grealeft polifeucfs
1 Capt. Rice left at Mole St. Nicholas lft Febru
aiy ; brig Amazon and £hip Pat:er« belonging to
t N. i ork j brig —, capt. Williams belonging to
. Say-Brook, and a number names unknown!
t From the Log-Book of lie Jhip Sampson, capt. Rook,
66 days from London.
' Jan- 13- Saw the wreck of a vessel to the weft.
■ ward, bore down to her, sent an offi er and 5 mea
| on board who fo"und her deferred. She proved to
! be tHc Thetis brig of Boston, about 200 tons bur
. then, laden with staves and plank, and had left her
. niajs and part of her rudder; part of her quarter
- boards and her larboard plankfheer (love in ; filled
; with water nearly up to her lower deck beams ;
; eveiy thing was taken out of her exceptisg the
' uar g o » the hatches weie not broke open lat. u
I 44, long. 49, 19, Weft.
Off Bermuda saw several wre :ks of small vefleli
: February 10.
. Extras of a letter from Capt. Tobia. Ham, of tbe
[ fljip Comiuerce, of this town, to his owners, dated
; Cape-Nichola-Mole, Jan. t.
> Sir,
| lam very ferry to inform you of our fad misfortune
on the 15th of last month, in lat. si, 0 , N. lone,
t 71, W. we were captured by a French privateer, name'
; unknown, at seven in the evening. After hailing, fir
, ed two broad (ides and forty mulkets, which wounded
, your son, Mr. Watson, Backfter and Joseph, but no
r ways dangerous. Mr. Frathingham and myfelf were
kept on board the privateer until the morning, mean
j while they plundered us of beef, pork, bread, pota
-1 toes > rigging, eanvafs, blocks, &c. She raount
. Ed 11 fixes ; we found two fix pound (hot on deck, and
, took 12 muiket balls em of the miztn mast, several
r holes throsgh the mizen and one through the croffjack
. yard, taffi el rail (hot away—it is impossible to tell the
; whole damage until the fcip is discharged ; they took
. your son, Mr. Watson, Jacobs, Henry and Lewy on
s board the privateer, and font on board a prize matter
. and 5 Jailors to take the (hip into Cape-Franeois—on
the 29th we had the good fortune to fee admiral-Duck
. worth 5 squadron, which frighted them, so they took
, my yawl anri left the (hip, and told me to keep close
' to Rewind, expc<fting the ships would not fetch the
Cape, which they did not, but as soon as the boat left
, me lup helm, set the light fails, although almost i,n
. der the junsof th« fort. I boredown tothe fleet, who
, brought me in here. I have noted a protest, but (hall
riot have it extended until we arrive at Jamaica,-where
1 I expe<sfto go with the firlt convoy. I don't think
t they can recover salvage for bringing me in, as the (hip
. was not in the hands of the Freush, although every
, one tells me they can, but I (had get advice from your
. correlpandent at Jamaica before 1 pav it.
, Yours, &c. TOBIAS HAM.
r N. B. They threatened to stab the mate, who tried
to itop them from robbing the vefiel, and told the fai
■ors that they would kill me if I tojd the commanda t
* fin " S UPOII aip ' Br 1 fte « ed a wrongLancajier, Harrijburgb, CarliJls, Sbip
penjburg and Sunbury I
STAGES.
The public are requested to take notice, that the par?- C
nerfhip which has for some time, subsisted bctweon Mathi
as Si©ugh of Lancaster, and William Geer, i» now diilei
rzd . bar, not as M. Slough insinuates to the public j,
without juil cause ;as will more fully eppear by a letter a
on the fubjedt from M. Sk>ugh t« W. Geer, dated the q
29th December last. a recital of which is not now deemed i
necessary. Any gentleman who wiihes to be more cir- 5
cumftantiaHy informed of the merits of this bufiaefs, by c
applying to W. Oeer may have she perusal of M. Slouch's £
letter, aatl then can be at full liberty to determine Whe
ther or not W. Geer is not perfedly juftifiable in attach- <
ing himfeif to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Pxuladelphia to Shippenfburg,
/ or any ether place. ,
Now from the liberal and generous support the public t
were pleased to confer oh the firft effort in this business, .
William Geer, in conjunction with Mefirs. Reiiy, Weed
N and Winner, is determined to profecutc and carry it on, t
with every care, attention and dispatch that a zeal to o
blige the public can possibly exert. j
The above company, who are amply provided with ]
carriages, horfea, and every appurtenance to render the j
passage fafe and comnvodious, inform these to ,
patronize and encourage the undertaking, that they can
take their feats at George the sign of the White (
Horse, Market *Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday j to proceed to Lancaster, Harrilburg, Cailifle
an* Shippenfburg. The fare afe hitherto established.
For the further accommodation of the public, a Stage
will flart every Wednesday from the house of Samuel
Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sunbury*n Northumber
land county, every Thurlday, and return from thence and
arrive at,Harrifburg every that paffeagers
deflined for Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed an
Mondays.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 27, 1797.
N. B. This Lineef Stages starts from the house o£
WiUiam Ferree, in Lancaster, on every Tuefdiy and Sa
turday morning at 6 o'clock,', proceeding to the westward;
and from the house of Mr. Samuel Elder in Harnlburg
every Wednesday morning, on the fame evening arrives
at Patrick Cochran*s in Shippeniburg, and returns from
thence on every Thursday : performing- the fame routine
daily as in its tour from Philadelphia. mwf
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third fl/reet,oppofite the national new Bank'
SAMUEL M FR.iPNCES and JOHN V.AN REED*
have entered into co-partner(hip, under the firm ol
FR.AUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
Convey&ncers and Commifiion merchants. They buy and
felt on commission every species. of stock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Money procured on deposits, &c. See. all kinds c'
writings jn the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
difpiwch; accounts adjusted, and bocks "fettled, in the
most correit manner. Conftamt attendance will be given.
They solicit a lhare of the public favor; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deferveit.
N. B. The utmoll secrecy ebferved.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
Fhilad. August 27, 1796. m&wtf
Washington Canal Lottery,
N 0 . I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised'
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollar*, for the purpose of catting
a Canal through the City of Wafhingtoa, froxi th
torructo theEaftern Branch Haruoar.
The following is the SCHEME ef N6.1.
Viz -i Prize of ao,ooo dollars, ao,ooo
— -» Jkw "TCTJOOO - - jc^ooo
7 last drawn 7
Tickets,each f J >°°° "' oo °
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
lo ditto 400 4,000
10 ditto 100 1,000
55 ditto 50 ' »,7jO
5750 ditto II 69,008
To be raised for th« Catial, 16,150
5850 Prizes, 17j,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a priie.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
The Cemmiflioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aft for the punilual payment of
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as thf Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such priz j. as are not demanded in fix months aftenthe
drawing is finilhed, {ball "be considered as relinquished for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed ) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, ->/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
WM. M.DIfNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES
tH'.f of "Walhington, Teb. 11. 5
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL Situated, laying on and between Marsh
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin eounty, Pennsylvania, in
four separate Patents. For terms ot sale apply to
Wm, Blackburn,
No. £4, South S^cond-ftrset
Jan»ary zS. mwftf
General Orders.
Philadelphia, February 4 7th, 1797' i
r I "HE officers of the militia of the city and county of Phi
kduiphia, arc requeftcd to affembleet the vtate-Houfe
on Wedaefdaynext, the tad instant, at 10 o'clock, A. M.
to proceed from thesee with the State Society of Cincinnati,
to pay their refpe&s to the PreQdent of the United States on
the anniversary of his birth#
By order of the Commander in Chief,
JOS. HARMAR, Ajj, Gen.
T<i be fold,
(For MORRIS'S NOTES)
100,000 acres of Land,
LYING in Randolph county, in Virginia. Enquire of the
Primer. February 18 ?3t
Lisbon Wine.
;
1
5« Pipe« of Lisbon Winr, landing at Meflr*. Sum- ]
inerl & Br»wn'i wharf, b«twe«n Arch and Race flreets, i
from fliip Neptune, Capt. Jeffries, from Lifban. in ;
Pipes, Hoglheadi aad Quarter Caiks, for sale by !
PETER BLIGHT.
January it. }7t t
PROPOSALS,
For carrying the Mails of the United
States,
On the following Pe/l Roads, •w'lll be rectived until
tlejirjl day of March next inclujlve ■
I.' From Chrirlefton, S. C. by Jackfonboro' and Coola
hatchy, to Savannah, twice a week. Receive the
at pharlefton every Tuelday and Fridayby 6, P. M. and
deliver it at Savannah the neitt Friday and Monday -by S
A.. Xf. Returning, rccciv, the Mail at Savannah eve y
Saturday, by 6, P.M. andWednefdiy by 6, A. M. and
deliver it at Charleston rfie ncrt Tuesday and Friday
by noon.
Proposals for this route 'will he received by the poji-majler at
Savannah.
a. Beaufort onee a week-
Receive the mail at Coofahatchy every Thursday by 6,
r. M. and deliver it at Beaufort Ivy noon on F. 4»; jy. Re
turning, leave Beaufort every Friday by 3, t. m. and arrive
at Coofahatchy on Saturday by 8, A. M.
Proposals tor carrying the mail on this route will be re
ceived by the poll-nialler at Beaufort.
Note r. The Pofc-mailer General may alter the times
for the arrival and depa»ture of the mails at any-time du
ring the continuance of the contra&s, he previoufiy stipu
lating an adequate compensation for any ext»a expence
that may be ocoafioned thereby.
Note 2. Forgery hours delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in arriving after the times prescribed by con
trail, the contractor (hail forfeit one dollar,-and if the
delay continue until the departure of any depending mail
an additional forfeiture of five dollars Ihall be in.-urred.
Note- > Sliosld any perion makio; proposals oefir: an
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe
cified, hs must state the alteration desired a»d the price
he will carry the czail for with and witkeut fiich alte
ration.
Note 4. The contrails are to te ia operation on the
firll day of April next and to continue until the 30th of
September in the year 1800.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Pojl Majter General.
General Poll Offici, }
Philadelphia, Jan. 13,1797.3
x '»n. 16. iaw6w.
Particular TenerifFe Wine.
50 Quarter-Calks Particular Tcneciffe WINE,
Of a fujaerior Qualiiy,
For sale by A. MARPLE ts* IS. IV. MO Xft IS,
No. 60 Dock-flreet.
February 8 wf&nii2t
■ ——r
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South Seesttdjlreet.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to ao Aft of
the Legislature of Pennfylva a, paiTed during the latt
feluon, for building a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Heading) in the County of
Berks. Dollars.
1 Prize of 20,000 Dollars - cc,ooo
1 do. of to,ooo do. - - 10,000
g do. of 5,000 do» - *5,000
4 do. of 2,000 do. -« - 8,000
so do. of 4,000 do. - - •- 20,000
39 do. of 500 do. - - »9»50C
8© do. of -too do. » - 16,000
too do. of ioo do. ~ -- - 2©,c00
do. .of 50 do. - - 15,000
1 vio* of s®o do. to be paid the pofTef- )
for f the firft drawn no.)
doy 3,«oo io. to be paid poflefibrs >
of the five last drawn nos !^l€>
do* o 15 do. : - 141,000
10,054 Prizes goo,ooo
l y < y|J M—T -7 n-.
30,000 Ticket» at Ten Dollars 300,000
All Prizes shall be paid fifteen days aTter the drawieg is
finifhed, upon the demand of a polleflor «f a fortunate
licket, fubjeft to a dedu£>.ion of twenty per cent. The
Diawing will commence as foomas the Tickets are dtfpofcd
of, or perhaps fooaer. of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William IVitman,
Jofph Hiejler, Jentet Diemer, Thomas Dumlas,
Jamit May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel GraejJ\
Scbafiian Miller, Com mission ers.
Reading, May the 9th, 1795.
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. 4, to be had at the
above office, where the earliest information of the draw
ing of the Washington No. 1, and Patterfon Lottery's,
are received, and check books for examination and regif
teringare kept.
Tickets in the above Lottery te ba tad at Mr, Sheri
dan's Race-llreet, John Hay, North Third-ilreet and
Henry Sw;yer's, German Town.
January 26 4awtf
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second street.
TICKETS m the Canal Lottery, No. a, for fkl«—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid iB
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and rt-jrfterUif!, for
the City of Waßiingtoii, No. 4, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets-are (0 be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public SchoalLottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber solicits the application of tie public
and his friends, who wife to purciiafe or fell Baak Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dollars each, which will be drawn early in
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, January 46, 1797. mth
On Saturday,
The 25th instant, at 7 o'clock in the evening,
• - WiU be Sold by Au&ion* at the Coffee-Houfe,
Three adj<wnin<j LOTS of GROUND, in the town&ip
of Mo) amenUng, a little to the i'®uthward ef So*th-ftreet,
and adjoining a 30 feetwiJc lane, called the Irish Tract
Lane, and also adjoining land 6 of Samuel Powell, de
ceased.
No. 1. Containing 4 acres and 83 perches
No* 2. Containing 4 acres ?nd 83 perches
No. q. Containing 4 acres and 56 perches
Plans -of the Lots are at the Coffce-Houfc.
Feb » '7 EDWARD FOX, Auft'r.
The Advertiser,
(A Steady middle aged Married Man)
WHO has been regularly bred to, and it well' ac
quaiated with bafiaefs, wtflies to engage as a clerk,
in a compting house, or aOiflant in a public office, or in
that of an attorney or counsellor at law He writes a
neat plain hand, corre«ly and expeditioufly ; and flatters
hiaUelf he can produce reconvmendati.ns »f rofpe<3abili
tv.—'A line addressed to W. Q. at No. Js,NertV Second
Street, or at tke Printers of this paper, will be duly at
tended to.
N. B. The advertiser will chearfally accept any tempo
rary employment a» above. February ig. 3t
For Fieight, for Ncwbiiry-port, Pc'tf
mouth or Bolt on,
THE SCHOONBR
Industry,
F r " nca Salter, Majler,
IS now redjCly to tike iu freight, at Arch-ftrcet wharf.
Apply to the matter on board.
FOR SAL E,
A few barrels Excellent CYDER.
February 18 • Ii IW
For Amsterdam,
j/f*r- The fall-failing cedar and live oak
{hip Amiable,
}£" i. t). C. Til'inghajl, Majler,
JUST graved and in compleat order, and is mow ta
king in, and intended te fail in all this month, a great
part of her cargob^ngready to goon board,has good
accommodations for *aflengers. For freight or pafiage
aprply to tte matter, on beard, at Btight's wharf,
cr to
WARDER, > .-
Sso. XI Soatk'Ptiird flreet.
February 15 tnw&fzw
For Hamburgh,
yp. The fine fait-failitg ship
John Thompfcri, Majler,
JUST coppered, ai»d in complete Older, and is i.ow loading.
A conln'etable pauof her cargo is engaged, iiei good accom
modations lor paflVngers. and intended to tail in the c >urie
this month.— For height or passage, apply to the liiaUer
on beard, at Brigbt's wbart, or to
JEREMIAH WARDER,
No. ii north Thu d flreet.
February 1 mw&fiw
Grand Concert,
On SATURDAY" EFENING, the 25tk InjUrt,
AT OELLERV ROOM.
SIGNOR TRISOBK),/™» Italy t profffir of vo: 4 mufu,
proposes to a concert of vo, ttl and ;njirurmntal tvufic in
j the mofl manner, 7uhicb ivili mani feji bis refpc£l to a pub
! lie, tuiofe protection ke cr.tr cats for tie JlrJl time. Jnte is happy in
j having migagccl tiuu ladies, his fcbolars, namely, Mrs. Hend ray '<jf
I jMadlls. Rouffeltn, ivbo tvill ftng fever alfeleS pieces ; and Air.
i Zickendirf wia uuill ftng an Italian Mr. 'There will be executed,
a duct, and a catch by three 'voices. The Lj.der of the band /Mr.
Collet, 'willperform a concerto tn the-violin, oni mr. Guenir ano
ther on ike piano forte Amongst feucrai Jerious and comic songs
which Signor Trifobio will ftng, be promrfet to perform at.to a
lone ; that is to fay, an imitation of three Italian A uns ; and af
terwards the favourite ccmic song of the Cats, jflmofl all the fangs
•which mill hi fungi uuill he printed •with the nrufic, and exyofe'd
| for th: convenience of whoever rvifhes to bur chafe them —Tckets
| One Dollar, to be bad at Oilier*s Hotel; at mr. Lradford's hotk
.fore, No. 8, South Froni-fbeet ; at mr. W'tllig s mufcal maga
zinry No 185, mariot-Jlreet ; at mr Chalks circulating library y j
ThirdJireety between Arch and Race J eets; Mi at mr. Trifobic,
Ne. 66, North Frout-fireet. —
The Concert mull commence at 6 o'clock.
February 1.8. '* ft.
L O S T,
T> ETWEEN.the fubferibers' house and the Bank of
D the United States, John Guist & Ce's NOTE,
dated 17th June, payable to Thomas and John Clif
ford, er order, 60 days after date, and endorsed by them
for 640 Dollars. -Whoever has fouad the fame, and
will bring it to -the fublcribers, will ke thankfully re
warded. Payment being flopped at the Banks, it can
be ef ho ufc to aay person.
JQHM GUEST & Co.
J t' ' - - y -. -i
persons are forwarned against purchasing the
laid Note. Febi uary 18. $
20 Guineas Reward.
RUNAWAY froKi the fubferiber ©n the 23d Oilobor,
a Dark MtJi-iAI'TO BOY, named MOSES.; i\ years
void; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mi*ed green
coat, with a greeA Velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
a (Iriped veil; a pair of dark S potted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change
hi*-name and dress. He has been accuftomad te driving
a carriage, and waiting 1 . The above reward will be
paid for securing liim so that the fubfcriUer may get him
again, -and if brought home all reasonable charges paidby
Robins Chamberlains.
Siifton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 iinliawtf
'i !.e Sublcriber
INFORMS the Pabjic, that he maaufa&urc* and ha« on
hand tor sale, a very generalalTortroent
Saddles, Bridles, Harness and Trunks,
Ai afual, alio, I'IRE BUCJCETS •( an excellent.quality
*ll which he will difpolc ot oa moderate terms at No* 88
Chefnut ftrece, Philadelphia.
WILLIAM JONES.
Fcbruaiy 17
Will be fold,
(Sn Wedircfday, the tld day af'PeVruary, injlaf.t,
At the Merchants'CoiF;e-Houle,
At 12 o'clock, noon,
A Lot, or Piece of Ground,
Containing 12 acres and 100 perches, ikaate near the
Blue Ball T a vera, on the Pa£fy uiik road, four miles
4rom the city of Philadelphia. This .l.ot commands a
view of the rivers Delaware and Schuylkill, is nearly intlef
ed with a good eedar pod and rail fence, and has a never
failing ipring of frelh water riling in it—One acre of
which is gooti bottom meadow—adjoining lands of Willi
am Bingham, Eftj. Jacob Sink, a»d others. The terms
of sale, one fifth part in teu days after the day of sale,
when immediate poffcflioo will be giveu, the reljdue in
payments agreeable to the purchaser, on paying legal in
terest therein,-, and giving security for the fame, if re
quired. An indisputable title will be given, upon mak
ing Lne firll payment aj aforefaid.
A Draft of said Lot may be ieen at the Merchants'
Cofifee-Houfe, and at the office of Alexander Power, No.
145 Qhcfaut-ftreet, where further information m«y be
had. Philadelphia, February 14 §tu
For Sale,
Scoo dozen BMSTOL BOTTLES
Ear IRON
via
TAR
CLARET, in hogfr.eads and cases
r OI I. in cases
February 17 ) Apply to F. COPPINGE&,
t<7' S No. 221 frouth Front street.
For Sale,
A Quantity of Excellent
Turks-Island Salt,
r *
Aud a few lioglheads
3d and 4th proof Rum.
Enquire of
Jehu Hollingsworth Co.
February ij
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Scheme of a Lottery, authorized by ln ifl
" An adl to enable the President And Managers „f ,v
Schuylkill and Suftmehamuh navigation, to rail' h C
way of Lottery, the si.m of Four Hundred Thousand
Dollari, for the purpose of completing the works in
their acU of incorporation mentioned." '
i Prize of twenty thousand dollars,
X of ten thousand dollars, io'coo
1 of four thousand dollars each, to '
b? paid to the poflefiors of the five
numbers firft out of the wheel on the lift
day's drawing, at which time there (hall
not be less than 500 numbers undrawn, 20,0ca
10 of two thousand dollars each, ' 20 ' 000
20 of one thousand dollars each. > , '
43 of five hundred dollars each, 2 Moo
ioooftwo humdreddollars each, io'ooa
100 of one hundred dollars each,
»2o of fifty dollars each, n'oo9
29,500 of five dollars each, 147^0,
30,000 Tickets at ten dollars each. ~ 300,000
Six dollars for each ticket will only be demanded at
the time of fple.
All prizes (hall be paid ten days after the driv ing i,
finifhed, upon the demand ol the poiTefior of a fortunate
ticket, fubjeil to a dedndtion of fifteen percent.
Such prizes as are not demanded within 12 months
after the Drawing is finilhed, of which public notice
will be given, fliall be conlidercd as relinquifted for
the ufs of the Canal and applied accordingly.
At a mesting of the President and Manners of the
Schuylkill and Sufquehanna Canal Navigation— and
the President and Managers of the Delaware arid
Schuylkill Canal,
liefolved, That Joseph Ball, John Steinmctz, Stan
dilh Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Crej, John Mil
ler, junr. and William Montgomery be a committee
to arrange at.d direct the mode of (iiipofm - of the
tickets ; which committee (h dl dtpofit the money in
Bank, to be carried to the credit of an account to be 0-
pened for the Lottery.
At a meeting of the Canal Board, held January 16, '97,
That the committee for conducing tt,e
Lottery bt directed ta commence the. drawing on
BrQ day ofT»larch next.- .^1
JBxtracft fr«m the minutes,
Win. "M. Smith, Secretary.
Jojepb Ball,
John Stiinmetz,
Standifh Forde,
Francis 'Vejt, J> Manners.
James M' Crea,
jjbhu Miller, jun.
.William Montgomery, _
Jan. 20. th&f.tf
City of Washington,
Scheme of ths Lottery, .do- H, far iiic iaiprcvemat
of she Federal City.
A magnificent I 20,000 dollars, & J
dwelling-house, J cash 30,000, are ) . s ° ,aoa
I ditto ij.ooo &
I ditto 15,000 & cifti 15,000 50,0011
1 ditto ioiooo & cfe.'h io r joo 20,b0e •, iha
1 ditto 5,000 & cath 5,000 10,000
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10, coo
1 caih prize of 10,000
1 do. 5,000 each, are « 10,000 1
io do. I.eoo - - io.' *0
' 3o do. 500 - - 10,000
' 00 do. xoo » - io,oca
4<§ do. 25 - - i0,0r.«
1,000 do. 2© - 20.000
15,00® do. iff - 150,000
>6,739 Prizes
33»26i Blanks.
jo,ooo Tickets, it Eight Dollars, 400,00 a
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets, the prize of 40,000' dollars will be the l ■■ st draw*
ticket, and the 30,000 the last *but on* :
And approved notes, securing payment ioeither monty
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be erv-fled in the City of Washington- —
Two beautiful defigtis are already ieledted for the entire ,
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prrwings
it ispropoted to erect two centre and four corner building)*
as soon as poQible after this lottery is fold, and to ceiivty
them, when complete, to -the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in tbe fchemc for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduflion of five per cent.-wrllbe made to defray
the ceceffary expenses of printing, the furplas
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
University, to be erected within the city of Walhington
The real fecuritjes given for the payment of thePrii's,
are held by the President and two Dire>s.or6 of theßark
c .-m -> «»»• *"■ """ "
mount ot the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
,§, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colombia i of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilman, Bolton 5
Of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
Cooper's Ferry. c 0
Will be Sold, by Public Vendue,
Oh tbe (Jth of March next,
A PLANTATION,
IN Ridley township, Delaware county, state of Penn.
fylvania, eleven miles from Philadelphia, and one from
the great road leading thence to Cheftq*; ,oontaiiu n § on *
hundred and twenty-three acres, twenty-three of wnrca
i arc woodland, and eighteen meadow. On the prcmife*
| there are, a dwelling-house, barn, and other cut-hou es,
in good repair ; a good fpringof water close to the hou e,
;->nd a fine stream of water runs through the premiles; oy
which pa*t of the meadow is watered, &c.
ALSO,
On the fame day, the stock oo the said farm ; con -
ing of horses, cows, (heep, hogs, scc. A cart, ptoug »
harrow, end other farming uteniiis ; also a ;arge copper
ni l, with the household and kitchen furniture, among
which are beds and bedding, an eight day clock, and ma
ny other articles too tediousjto mention.
Thefale to begin at ten o'clock in the forenoon, where
the conditions will be made knows, and attendance give»
onthepremifes, by CUR sIS
Ridley, Fcbrnarv n " >*»>
Pattneifliip diiTolved.
THIS is to notify the Publie, and all pfrfcns wterned,
that the Partnership of BLACK W£LL ,
ers in Dry Coods, was dissolved tlie firft of J n « r y lj ' u
1 SOBIRT BLACK.
Philadelphia, February 14, >797 1
PRINTED BY" JOHN FENNft
—No. 119 —
C H E S K V T-S T R E S T.
[Priec Eight Delkrs p«r Anjium.;