of rn Sttttets States, a NB Philadelphia Daily Advertiser 4
Number i64.6.j
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DR r GOOD S.
C Forenoon—Edward F6x, No. 56,
-MondayJ . / outh Front Jlreet,
} Afternoon —pootmafi & Co. No. 6<
(. Front-ftreet.
C Forenoon—.John Connelly, Old City
TuefdayJ . Anftion, No. 73T011A Front-Greet.
1 Afternoon—Wftliafti SJiannon, No.
v. **3 High-street.
Wedxefdar f Afternoon—Peter Benfnp, No. 74
I south Third-ftrcei.
I Thur/Jay J Forenoon—Edward Fox.
J (Afternoon—John Connelly.
Friday I Forenoon—William Shannon.
• J Afternoon—John Conntfly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
Marjhal's Sales.
United Stages, 1 ...
/ Pennsylvania DiftriiS, j
BY virtue of wtirs of venditioni exponas, iflued
out of the diftria cAurt of the United States, and
ta mc (luc&cd, wiJI be fold at public Sale at the mer
chant's Coffee-Houle, in Second flrcet, on Wednesday
the 27th day of Lfccember inft. at 6 o'clock in the
evem'-g, 3|U ihat piece or parcel of meadow ground
situate, lying and being in the township of Paffyunck,
and county ot Philadelphia, on the road leading to
Stale Jfldiid t Ferry, containing about fifty-four acres
and three"oe»ches, whereon are ere&cd a two ilory
b-ick MrtT.iage, out .houses and a barn ; also one o
ther if aft or piece of meadpw gi puud, fjtuate in the
ja\d township and county, and nearly on the opfpofite
fide of thefaid roadtotbe faidfrrry, containing sixteen a
tres& thuequarters; alfoamffTuageortencmeotand lot
or piece of ground fuuatc on the north f:de of High
between sth 5 th and 6th ftreers, in the city of Piif
-1 adelphja, containing in fronton High {licet, thirty j
T t hrte feet, and in length or depth two hundred feet, I
bounced east by property of Hannah Peml>mon,
qorth by South alley, weft by property of William
Bel), and foj+lh by Higji street atorcfaid.
Seized and taken in execution as the property W
H«ury Shekel, and to be fold >/
William Nichols, Mar/hat.
Marshal's Office, ">
December 15, 1797. J
December r 5 d t f
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not bsforc chfpofed of at private falc)
ON Mondaythe firft dayof January next, at fix '
o'clock in the evening, at the Mc/chant»'Cof- '
fpe House, in Philadelphia, Twenty-Six Thousand 1
Seven Hundred apd Eighty acres of L A{tfD, in the
State of New-York, bcrween the northern bounds
of Pcnnfylvania and the Su'quehanna, now, or late
in the town/hip* qf Hamdenand Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery. One fourth of the porcl<afc
money tp fee pjid at the time of faje j for the refiduc
credit ofone, two and three months, will be given,
on int«r«(l and goad security.
- fi- c -4» 3tawtS.
To be Sold at Public Vendue^
(I] net before disposed of at private fait)
ON Monday the firft day of January next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Cofffcc
House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thoufaud Nine Hun
died and Thirty-Nine acres of LAND in Green v
county, Commonwealth of Pennfy]vania,on tha Wa
ters of Fish and Wheeling Creek, and te«i Mile Run
Thefc land* are fertile, well timbered and abound in g
coal; they were ten years ago for ss. per acre, ?
patented ea»Jy in 1787, except 3,700, which were pa
teotcd in 174 a* ; the greatest part of them were fur- b
veyed in 1783. 5 j
This tra& is between the Ohio and Monon;{ahela,
very convenient to water carriage—about 19 miles from b
the tot n of Wafhingtoii, and from 1410 16 from the
villages of Green (burgh and Wheeling. One so ,?h
of the purch?fe money is tope paid at the time of
sale } for the icfiduc a credit of one, two, and three
months will be given* on interclt and good security.
4 Dec. 1. _ tyawtj
NQW LANDING, .
From on board the ship Farmer, lying at Harper's J
Wharf, |
Claret in hhds. *
Ditto in. cafe 9 p
SauterneWins ill do.
For Sale, apply to
'John Whitefi.de Co.
No. ijßj S arfiet-llree.t.
Also, en hand,
Bordeaux Brandy in pjpes
Fine old Antigua Rum
A few cases of Claret, of a superior quality,
novembcr ao. §
To be Soldi
The time of a Negro Boy,
About fifteen years of age, ha 9 seven years yet
to fcrve ; fie is an excellent hoole servant, aflive
and healthy. Enquire of the Printer.
December 2. daw
To Gentlemen ,who intend /pending ■
the Winter in the City. mi
ROOMS to LET„
WITH oj- without Boards—at No. 114. corner
of and Race Streets. The situation 11
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. o<sl. 27.—dtf
~ COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies. ,
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleas-
ure and rcfpeO, returns her lincere ac
knojvledgemcnt for the liberal encouragement an
Jhe has received during four years refiden«e in
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the col
public, so- far from intending to decline her on
ichool, ihe ha 9 made a superior arrangement fcjr
che more convenient accommodation of her
icholars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite
.■education is particularly attended to by Mrs. ' n
tiroombridge and masters excelling in their *
refpe<sHve protVlTlons.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets. By
June sth, 1797. simfaf ]
The lituation is healthy j and made
more agreeable by an exterffive garden andlot
of ground adioininp the house.
Landing,
Front on board the Ihip Edward, at Walnut- »,
flrcut Wharf,
London particular Madeira Wine,
of a superior qi(ality, For Sale by the fubferiber. "
Robert Andrews. in 2
novembec j- eotf
TO ]3E SOLD, E
Qr Exchanged far Property in the Country, go _
That three story Brick Houie,
"No. 157, north 'l*hird ftrcet. Apply at the of- Jufl:
sice of kiiis Gazette. Nov. 2)- w&i 4 w wha
PH IL AD E L P-HIA:
For Londonderry,
The American Ship
fe^SL BOSTON PACKET >
56, Copperthwait, Mafttr,
r. aSiN O w lying at Mifflin's Wharf,
near v ine-flreet—Has elegant 'accommodations for
paHcngeri—will fail, weuthor pcrmittkg, .n or
- about the lotk inft. having all her cargo engaged
55 r , cad y ,0 °» hoard. For paffdge only, apply co
No. the captain.
Smith ss* Ridgitiay,.
No 4, North Water fttrcet,or to
Ifaaq Harvey, Jun.
No. 5, South Water ftrcct.
December i §iot
for Amsterdam,
EDW AV D,
James Wickham, Mafler,
jed ! |7 x P^ cl 2Dtofail in a few days, having two
md I , 'htrdsofher cargo already engaged, and near.
ier - ' U »» J lojrii ' For Freight or Passage, apply to
Jsy , 'ncMaftet on board, at Hamilton's wharf, 01; to
' n h a e John Donnaldfon,
Lu , ' No. 12, Walnut-street.
to dßt
res > .THE SHIP
o- COMMERCE,
- Captain Richard Waistcoat,
From Liverpool i« now discharging
at Morris's wharf, near the Drawbridge, where
. owners of goods on freight, will pleafc speedily to j
"j. fend their permits. Said veffcl will a iter I
ty j ta^re i n freight on very low term* for Boston. Ap- I
I P'y 10 the captain, or to
"» lfaac Harvey, jttju
m No. 5, South Water Street.
A few tons of (lone, or land ballad wanted
-01 A PPfy povember 17 —§ior.
or AITI fterdam,
P4 R M P E R,
J OUN M'CMlom, Matter ;
fail in a few days, the
~ ,c * i -" l: "' l * J ' =i *sgrcater part of her sargo being
x ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pas
s. ' a R e > apply to the matter on board, at Walnut. I
ftreet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
[s Who is Landing, out of the said Ship, from Bo ar
e deaux, and For Sale,
£ Claret in hhds.
Ie White Wine in quarter caflcs
1, Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fentiniac,
9atrterne, V Wises in cases j'
Lunille, S '
Prunes in boxes .
novembcr 24.
For Liverpool, s
11 ' The copper bottomed Ship 8
Hamburg Packet, %
1 1 Captain Silas Swain, i js
, J\ Large proportion of her b
. cargo being ready to go on y
. board, is expedlcd to fail on or about Sunday, the a
jd.of Dorfinyf. _' _ - ' r
, For Freight or Faffagc. apply to oa
1 board, at Walnut-ttrect Wharf, or to
PHILIP NICKLIN isf Co.
, novembcr 12. $
■ Eor Savannah, in Georgia, re
THE SHIP
Sally Butler, -
' Captain Chisholm,
A ncw vessel, with excellent
accommodations for paffengcrs— O
Sail< on the 10th of December. Fiir Freight or
Paflage, apply t» ROSS 13" SIMSON. fl l
Who bavt to difpuft of, ' r
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parrel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18.
Rundle & Leech, ,
Have jutt received, and have for Sale, at no. 9, Fi
Walnut flreet,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT
Do. bell house CO A LS
Queeps' WARE in cases, assorted
Bourdeaux BRANDY of an excellent quality
Do. CLARET in cases, do.
THfY HAVK ALSO
For SALE or CHARTER,
P EG B GY, 1
Burthen 11$ tons, in excellent condition, and
be sent to sea with little expence or delay. w *
LIKEWISE, thl
THE BRIG
WILLIAM, M
Burthen 201 tons,
novtmber 10. §
For Sale or Charter,
The fall failing brig 7
Brothers,
i Lyinsr at Curling's wharf,
an excellent li*gle dcck'd veflVl, burthen ahout
1600 harrels— not twelve months old, and in
compleat order. For terms apply to the matter
on board, or to . .
Joseph Anthony & Co.
rt iw.
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing, r
By ship Edward, from Madeira, and Betfcy and p
Peggy, fro 11 Oporto, in Pipes and Hoglheadi, L
For file by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFERS ?0R SALE, *
The Ship
mjL AMI 7r - ~
/(i Four thousand barrels burthen, ing
in excellent order—ready to ton,
ih a cargo—about three years old. ticn
LIKE WISP, ries
The Schooner Industry, Ui^
Burthen SOO barr.els, ready al'fo to receive a car
go —and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Jufl: landed from the above vc.Tc's at South street by
wharf. eolm. NOv. *. no
By John Fenno,
For Savannah,
I ( r ° fail oa cr tefare Su4.-lafc«Jit lath if,ft f.
T f. preveniiii SyW^)
' ! jf— l iw failing fthj,,
LT '. I Swift Packet,
'fw I Paerick Gr '. bken » MijUr.
Inr TLJ AS excelicnt acconmipda
. tiont for pall-ugjrs.
£ Fcr l'rcigh: rr pailajre, apply tu
yco if. 'j. fruzver,
no - 9). foath front» r «et.
0 TVho have for Sale, tcce'rvedby the said ship,
New lilCli, in whole Kndfcalf tiertss.
Pfcetaber t6 diw
t On, THURSDAY aext, the icth inUT
At the- Tontine toffee-Houfe in New-Torlt,
Will be SOl d without reserve, the
Ship SWIFT,
hundred and nine
'y tons, a remarkable fail sailer.
r, .«•"*(launch built, and well found,
wo Inventory to be fecn oil board, at the Qld Slip
nr. or at no. 178, Pearl-flreet, New-York,
r to December 16
10 For Londonderry,
t ' THE BRIGANTINE
L S U IC E r,
Wif.LiAM Whitten, Mafttr.
1 r A Irong good vessel, about two
j hundred tons, to f»il with all convenient fpced, a
i,g P rcat P art of ' ,er car ?° engaged—now lying'at
r ° Willing and Francis's wharf. For freight or paf
to a 8 e > >pply to the captam, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
ps Lttrdenhcrgcr*s tvbarf.
Who wants to Charter.
A Vissil of about three hundred tons.
"OV • 8.
For Sale or Charter,
1 ffiHlT '
Will carry about laoo barrels, and
' s rcad y to take in a cargo. For terms
' apply to
i« Pragers Id Co.
% No. 151, feuth Setend-ftreet.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
t» Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and Tcneriffe wine.
November 7. d t f #
Phjlip Nicklin Ssf Co. r
'HAVE FOR SALE,
At their Stores on Walnut street Wharf,
HavannahSugars, whiteandbrown
15 hhds. Jamaica do. 1,
3000 pieces of broad Nankeens b
Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighths of chests b
Quickfilvcr in tubs a
Madeira Wine in pipes and hogsheads )j
Tcneriffe Wine in pipes
Old led Port Wine in hoglheads
Sail Canvkfs, assorted, No. I to 8
8 cases of Manchester Goods, co«lifting of Dimities, f
Muflinets, Ginghams, Thickfctts, Corduroys, &c.
JOO crates Queens' Ware, assorted
Nails, assorted
r Black quart Bottles ,
1 Yellow Ocre in caflcs £
: A quantity of writing Slaws, slate Ink
vjuai tL. s.afK.s oxjn rowder
1 91*1 Ui also Jot SALE or CHARTER, --
TheJlip MOLLY, hrarthtH 340 tons, a J
good vessel, and completily fitted.
The brig AMAZ&Nj burthen 130 a bar-
refe, may be ready lor sea in a few days. ,
The whole of the above tcffels to be seen at
Walnut street Whai;f. § bow j'.
TO LET,
A Front Room, suitable for an
Office or Counting house, with a large Cellar.
Any person who may rent the above, may (if re- ar
quired) be accommodated with Board and Lodg- p (
in the houfe. Enquire at no. 180, South
Front, near Pine street. to
December ij. 3awjw j
_ __ a|
Landing this day, a j
From on board th« schooner Two Friend»> Dan- re
lei Crawley, Mailer, tu
« Jit'* " d j Jamaica RrUM, ch
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer Iff Son. -
uovember 9. }
James & Richard Smith, jf r
TAKE the llber'y of informing their friends
and the public, that they have retneveJ their
(lore to NM. South Front Jlreet, next d»or ta Ed
ward Fox's Auftion Room, where they have at f
this time for sale, a large and general affortmcnt of
European & Eajl India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in th»Clothier, £
William Penn, &c. &c-
Oil. »7- \ s „
NOW LANDING,
At Suuth-ftreet Wharf, | r
7he Cargo of the Ship Concord\
Captain Thompson, from ka
About 30c tons firft qualify Java Coffee (thg
whole having been leleiftcd)
80 tons Java Sugar, in caniflers and bags
10 legures of old Arrack ef
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves Un
FOR S'ALE BT P 1 "
PETER BLIGHT.
Who also offers For Sale,
Just landed from fiiip Amity, from Jamaica.
lot hhds Jamaica Sugar, and tcr ,
170 do. do. Rum. m jj
novemberaj. d6w ia .
Canal Lottery —No. 11. " f a i
_
Wlf.l. commence drawing Monday, thezoth WJ '
inft. Tickets for Sale in thi-i Lottwy, at c -**
Seven Dollars» at Wm. BLACK 3L t RN'» Lottery
and Brokers Oltlce, Ko. 64, South Second-street
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten c p
Dollars, wkete check books are kept ior register- k
ing cxaminiog in these, the City of Waihing- ilc^
tan, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and in foriua- S OO
ticn where tickets may be had in nioft of the Lotter GC
ries authorifod by law in any ihe States of the 1
Union. ' /[£
N. B. The bufmefs of a Broker, in buying and
felling kind* of Public Stock and Securities,
(jifecuntng Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &c. kc, will be duly attended to, j A
by Wm. BLACKBURN. he C
novembcr 15. § I KXO ;
N°
119 Chefnut Street
MONDAY EVENING, D
CEMBER 18, 1 79 ;
N O T I C E.
»'«& To holders of J -tMES GREENLEAFs
and ED IVARD FOX's Engagements
|N tonfequenct of many having been prevent-
Af-fi, iro.u jars unavoidable \ircjUmfVancw.from
r> obtaining .etui." Certificates, agreeable to formtr
)da- '''Otice. Xhe fruftees now inform them, they
" r . e rea <ty to iflue the fame to those who may ap
p-'ywithin fix ty days, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
3»d those who do not, wtTl bftonMtrcd as re.
et linquiftiing their elaim on the A£gfegate Fund
~ provided for their payment.
' P ' HENRY PRATT,
v THOMAS W. FRANCiS,
*- JOHN MILLER, JUN.
,L JOHN ASHLEY,
r/(, , JACOB BAKER.
December 15. <i6ct
NOTICE.
ier, THE Creditors of the Estate of Walter
Stewart deceased, are requested to meet on
P' Monday next at 6 o'clock in the evening
at the City Tavern—The business upon
which they are to deliberate being of threat
importance they are requested not to fail to
give their attendance.
Ehec. 15. 3t
wanted;
«o /\ VERSGWihat can produce umxceptjomble
a recommendations, to perform a journey this
' at winter as far.as the Ohio—Such an one will nuet
,f. Wl:h encouraging terms, by applying at this office:
N. B. Home one acquainted with Hanifon
county, Virginia, and its tejghhorhood, would bi
preferred. o ec. 15.—: 42t
WANTS A PLACE, ~
As coachman, a black Man, who'carc produce
Enquire of the prin
— 151 Dec. 16—dy
WR sii.a,
Hy JUHN MlxXfik, jux. &VfT ■" r
N». 8, Chtlnut-ftreet,
One hundred and eighty bales
f s BENGAL GOODS,
/.monglx which are, f
Gurrahs Mamoodies '
Baftas Sannas '
Guzz nahs Tanda Coffees
d Guzzies Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Pahmpoors Romall Handkerchiefs
Amongli them ar* a great proportion of the
manufactures of Patna.
December 1. §
All Persons x
1 Having anf demands agamft Uic Estate of the
late Captain George Irwin, are requested to
bring in their accounts pioperly attested, on or 1
before the firft day of January next ensuing
and those who are indebted to laid estate art fe
licited to make immediate payment to -
SARAH IRWIN, Administratrix.
nov.i 9 1797. |5 j
» Geenteel Boarding & Lodging. c
A Family may be accommodated with a Draw- B
itig Room, two Bed Chambers, and suitable C
accommodation for servants—at no. 53, north Si
Fourth {treat. Dec; s—*tta D
Samuel Pleafants b? Sons, 5?
/Vo. 74-, oouim>cconajirect,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS, tc
which tHey are now opening for sale, on pi
reafijnablo terhis. 0,827. —4\v
Muftcal Instrument Manufactory,
167, Arch-street.
TO THI LOVERS OF HARMONY. t0
HARPER, a)
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has rc
now ready for sale, a tew of his »ew invented,
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedals,patent f>vell, lonopahant and French harp
<hop, which for ferffihility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, {implicit) and durability of contlrutfion, the
superiority of whicfcjie flatters himfelf, a fmgle tri- ap
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As tfiey io
are manufactured under his immediate isfpeilion,
of tho very be?: seasoned materials, he can feH 011
reasonable terms for Cash-, lnftrsmiiiits repaired,
tuned, (Sec.
N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex
change for newi
novemier 18. 2aw2mo.
Wants a place,
AS a Wet Nurse, a- yoiing woman, who cap
be well recommended. Inquire in Eleventh
street, near Rice-street, mnr.i-j. 1
_*eodi w.
This Day Publilhed, _
Aid.to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, aorncr of
Second and Chefnut llreets,
Price 3-Btbt of a Dollar,
Obfervatians on urtain Documents
Contained in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the 1 year 1796,"
In which the charge or speculation agaiuit bri
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasury, is F.ULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BT HIMSELF.
This publication presents a concise ftatemect
of the base means praitifed by the jacobins of the "\1
United States to asperse the charaders of those V
parfonswhoare confuieredas hostile to their difor- er<
ganizing schemes. It also contains the cor- tur
refpondence between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs. bou
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on theXub- the
je<a of the documents aforefaid, and a series of let- n ; t ,
t«rs from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha- 0D( ;
milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt,
that the connection between him and Reynolds,
was the result of' a daring eonfpiracy on the part ' n
of the latter and his alfociates to extort money. Wi
A discount of one third from the retail price for
will be made in favor ot wholesale purchasers, for gen
c.'.mi. Orders to be addrnffed to Mr Yoonci. I
Augu/i 25. evei
FOR SALE', _j
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Lorlg Primer, about 400 weight, in- A
good condition, and wou4d anfv/er the purpose of w ; t ]
a. country printer as well as new.
Enquire of Printer. Nov. 30.
Ad trying Duties on Stamped Vellum' 'try.
Parchment and Paper.
A FEW copies of the above ait may be had aj
he Office of th# Gazette of the United States, No
119, Chcfnut-llreet. July I
D , e 'f A ; are and Schuylkill
U< s A N acs), urn, J meetmg of the Stockholder! of
f r. 7. ' K „ arC 3ni Schl 'y |k 'll c. nal, is to lie
'cut- r v:'.-',i L £ve r.iiiif (19th at
'rom Dewnber) at 6 o'clock, p. m . precisely,
0f,., ' , *"««»»" is "quelled, on matt.rs
hcv r - " U,a "mportance, relating to certain pro
-1 'P- work 03 ' 7 n '° re ex ! ,editiaufl y completii.g the
J u 'r ° ". un ß the aid of the Lecture
re. !f M* Corporation of the City, fer introducer
un j a co ff«pwy of water into the fame.
Und r , WM. MOORE SMITH, L'ry.
. dttfch
» Inlurance Company
'TKtf uu l ' 6 ° F PENNSYLVANIA.
I vi n c _ n eri are hereby notified, that an
tleiSion for thirteen Direaors to serve for
\T y j ar ' W h , e held at ths company's Office, oa
- the d ? hth of January next, at 11
•r "Lj**?- w - fisher - *>,
on . if d'Bt.'J
ng A Fifty Dollar Bank Note,
ion ° f , the , of tl,e United States, was loft 011 Sa
eat ' U ' d \l la £' l '" we ™ Bank of ;he United States
and the Horf; market-lf an honed person his
foundit and will leave it wth the Printer hereof;
they Ihall be hanifomeJy rewarded.
_ December n epdjt *
Bank of fyorth America.
Me THE Stockholder? are heraby notified, that an
i'i» * ,° n / or twelve Diridors, for the ensuing year,
[Ct Will be hild at the Kar.k on Monday, the Bth of
ce: January rext, at ten o'clock.
-on RICHARD WELLS, Cajhier.
bs Dumber 11. dt,Bthj
- Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
ee Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
e!e.3ion forPrefident and Managers, for the ensu
ing year, will be held at the company's office, en
the r >" ico'clock,*.*.
December 11. " mw&ftnl-j
Schuylkill and Sufquehanna Canal.
I HE Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
election for President and Managers for the enfu-
i e ! r ' held at the company's office, 00
the firft Monday in January next, at jo o'clock
A - Dec. 11. mw&ftiftml
JUST RECEIVED,
(via New-York)
le AND NOW OPENING, BY
George Dobson,
N°- IS t south Third street,
An cxtenllve and general alTortment of
' o e HABERDASHERY, viz.
|r Bed London mixt Pins Galloons and Ferrets
Common do do. Worded Bindings, affor
-0 Makenzie sfuper, patent ted colours
_ w hite chapel Ntedles Imperial, diaper, and
Nuns Thread no. 6to Thread Tapes »
40, regularly assorted White Edgings
Lifledo.no. 130 to 500, Blaak nd coloured Chi
regularly assorted nefc Ribbands
Cofeiired do. Sattin and figured do.
- Black fewmg Silks Black Velvet, 1-4 to lid
e Coloured do. and Twist Velvet & pelon Sattins
h Silk and cotthn Wires French Cambrick
Do. da. Ribbands Scotch do.
Shirt Moulds and Wires Plain gilt and plated
Black brufli Feathers Buttons
■' arovj.nan.- U1 uuuua, imumt
>, to the present and approaching fcafon, at reduced
1 P r "*« __ Dec. 6. dt f
THE PARTHERJHIP OF ~
Richard Is" James Potter,
' T S da 7 diffblved, by mutual confsnt. All
I pcrlans indebted to the said firm, are requested
to pay the fame to cither of the fubferibers; and
all persons having any demands against them, are
, requested to fend their accounts sot settlement.
Richard Potter,
\ , James Potter.
December y.
The Sublcriber intends to make
application for the,ieoewal of a Certificate of<i Share
in tne Bank of the United States, (landing in the name
1 B k dated July x,. , 7g7 , , he fame
having been loft. JOHN GRaHAM.
Kichmond, Dec. I.
KOSS & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Goflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica, J
St. Vincents, ( RUM.
and Bengal J
_','oocaß;s RICE, end
A parcel of ffiip building RED CEDAR.
Q<ft- *7- ft
For Sale by the Subfcribersf
Prime Rice tn whole and half tierces
Rourdeaux Rratidj
TeneriJJ'e I fine
Molajfe's
Georgia end Garohrna Indigo
Raven* Duck and one bog/head nf paiit
brujhes. -
N- & y. Frazcr.
No. fs > Sentb Fruit Street.
?: dim
dancing schoolT
William m'dougall pref.nts hi s
most relpe.'ilful coniplimtnls to his form
ei*employers arid the citizens in general, and re
turns his moll grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful encouragemeut he has expetieuced for
thele twenty-five years past. takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his school is now
open, at his
Elegant Ball Room,
in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
Walr.ut-ftreets. TV begin at 10 in the morning
for, young ladies, and 6 in thfc evening for yoang
gentlemeh.
His fti ft Practicing Bjll will be to-marrow
evening, Saturday, the 9th inft.
P* c - lawtf.
FOR SALE,
A Team of five excellentHorfes,
with a Waggon and Gears. The Horses are all
young, strong, true to the;draught, and capable
of hauling as great a weight as most in the couh
'try. The Waggon and Gears are strong, and
in good order. Apply to ROBERT GREEN,
Weft Town, Cheller county, ort:o '
Thomas Fi/her,
No. i4j, S. Second Street, Philadelphia
II me. 1, fodjv.
[Volume XIIPROPOSALS
FOR
CARRYING THE PUBLIC MAILS
on tre following Poll Roads will be re
ceived at the General Post Office until
S-he 30th day of January next inclusive.
PF. NftSYL VA NIA, &<.
1. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, Newc.if
t'.c, Caritwtll's Duck Creek, Dover, Fred
erica, Milford, Cloughs, Dagfborough, Trap,
Fev.hilt, Horrtown and Aceomac court house to
Northampton court house three times a week.
, April Ito Haven/her Ij. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery Tuesday, Thuifday and Saturday at H.and
arrrive at Northampton curt houfeon Thus lay,
Saturday and Monday at 7JP M. Reluming. Leave
Northampton court house every Friday, Monday
and Wcdnrfday;at lam, and arrive at PUiladeU
Vhia on Monday, Wednesday and Friday by 7 i-a
y m.
Xtvembtf 15 >- April l. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery j'uo-fd y, Thm fday and Saturday at 6 a m,
?tid arrive at Northam pton court houleon Friday,
Monday and Wednesday by 7 p». Returning—
J.,e:Vve Northampton court houfc every Saturday,
• Tuesday ard Thursday at 6 a m, and arrive at
Pliilade'phin on Wednesday, Friday a'li Monday
by 7 t m.
VIRGINIA.
2. From Northampton court houfc to Norfolk
thr»e times a w»ek. .
. April I to November 15. Leave Northampton
court hiufe every Monday, Wedntfday and Fri
day at 8 pm, -and arr ve at Norfolk in i + htours.
Returning—Leave Norfolk every Wednesday, Fri
day and Monday a 4 a m, and arrive at Northamp
ton courthoufc in twenty tour hours.
November rj to April I, Leave Northampton
cou. t!. use cveryTtiefday, Th ■ -fday rnd Saturday
at ;; . : , and arrive at Norfolk in 34 Re
tuning,—Leave Norfolk every Monday, Wednes
day a'ld Fiidav by 4 a m. and arrive at Northamp
ton court houfc in 14 hours.
PENNSYLVANIA (S? MARYLAND.
• •>. From Philadelphia by Wilnainpton, New
pert.Chrlfliana.Middletown,Warwick andGoerge
town croft roadstoChefteriloivnthrectiirresa week.
Mny Ito November I. Leave Philadelphia every
Sunday, Tuefd-y ind Thui f.Jay hy 9 p m, and ar
rive at Cheflertown the next days by 8 pm. Re
turning—Leave Cheftertown every Monday, "A'ed
jiefday and Friday by 9 p m, -and arrive at Phiia
the next days by 8 p m.
?\~rvt her Ito .u. vI. LeiVe Philadelphia eve
rvM- ndav and Friday by 9 Ait- at
't'luulliirtnniir 'i uuu.-.y aiflrSaturday by 4 pm.
jtH-.irnivc—Leave Cheilertcwn every Monday and
Fridsy by X a m, and rrrrive at Philadel, hia on
Tcehiay and Saturday by 4 p 11.
MARYLAND.
4. From Cheftertown by Centerville, Eafton,
Newmarket, Vienna, Salisbury, Snowhill and Prin
ted /-'-no to SaVifbury once a week.
Rec>ive the nuil at Cheftertown every Wednes
day at 7 aM, arrive at F.afton by 4 p.m. Leave
Paflon on Tliurfday by 6 a h, arrive at Snowhill
0:1 Fiiday-by I p. M, and at PrinceU Ann by 6 p.
m. R.-iurning—Leave PrincefjAnn onSaturday by
10 a m, arrive at Eafton the next day or Monday
by 6r a Leave Faflon on Tuesday by 8a m, and
arrive at Chellertown fame day by 4 p m.
j. From Harford by Bri-Air to the Blackhorfe
ODC; a neik.
Leave Harford every Tuesday by 10 a m, and
arrive at Black horse by 6 pm. Returning—Leave
B : ackl'-orfe on Wednesday by 6 a m, and arrive at
Harford the nest Tuesday by Jam.
PENNSYLVANIA , MARYLAND and VIR
* GINIA.
6. From Da'fcimorc by Blackhorfe toYorktown
Pa. once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday by 4 p m, arrive
at Blackhorfe on Saturday by 10 a m, and arrive
at Yorktown by 8 r M.\ Returning—Leave York
town ev< ry Thursday by 7 a m, and arrive at Bal
timore on Friday noon.
7. From Yorktown by Hanover, Peterfourg,
Taneyton ar.d Fredericktown to Leefburg once a
*£,eave PVPry Wunfl&y I} am, arrive
at Fredericktown eta Tuesday by 8 pm, andarrive
at Leclburp on Wednesday by ap m. Returning—
I cuve Leefburg every Friday u noon, andarrive
at Yoiktown by 6 p u on Sunday.
8. From Yorktown by .Abbotftown, Gettifburg,
Fairfield, EliiVoetJitown, Williarafport, Martinf
lorg, Winchefler, Stcvenfburj and Strafburg to
Woodftockoncc a week.
I,rave Yorktown every Sunday ky noon, arrive
r.t Martinfburg on Tuesday by II am. Leave
Martinfbtirg 011 Tuesday noon and arrive at Wood
ftotk on Wednesday by 6p m. Rhurning—Lrave
Woodilock on Thursday by 6 a m, arrive at Mar
tir.fturg on Friday by II a m, andarrive atYork
town en Sunday by u am.
9. From Pittfburg by Cannonfburg, Washing
ton. W eft Liberty and Wheeling to the month of
Pishing creek once a week (contrad for one year
only.)
Leave Fittfburg every Friday at 9 a m, and ar
rive at Fishing creek on Surday at 9 a m. Return
ing—Leave Filhing creek on Wednesday at 8 a m,
and arrive at Pittlburgon Friday at 8 a m.
10. From Waftiington by Brownsville and Union
to Morgantown once a week.
leave Union every Friday at 6 am, and arrive
at Washington by 6p m. Leave Walhington on
Saturday at 6 a m, arq>e at Morgantown on Sun
day at 6p m. Leave Morgantown on Monday at
8 am, andarrive at Union by 3 p m.
11. From Baltimore by fredericktown, Eliza
bcthtown, Greencaftle and Chamberfburg to bhip
penlbargbr.ee a wttk.
Leave Baltimore every Friday by II a m,arrive
at FrederickfoWn on Saturday by 10 a 11, atEli
zabethtown in the evening, and at Shippenfburg
011 Monday by Jt m. Retuini-g—Leave Shippenf.
burg every Tutfday at o a m, arrive at Elizabeth
town at 8 p m . at Fredericktown on Wednesday
noon, and at Baltimore on Thursday by 5 p m.
MARYLAND.
11. From Elizabethtown by Hancock and Old
town to Cumberland once a week .
Leave Cumberland every Saturday by 6 a M.and
arrive at Elizahcthtowh on Monday by 8 a m.
Returning—Leave Elizabethtown every Monday by
10 a m, and arrive at Cumberland on Tuesday by
6 pm. »
13. From Baltimore to Annapolis once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8 a m, and
arrive at Annap*lis by 5 pm. Returning—Leave
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8 a m, and arrive at
Baltimore by 8 pm.
14. From Baltimore by Annapolis, Queen Anns,
Upper Marlborough,Pifcataway,Perttobatco, 41-
lensfrefh, Newport and Chaptico to Lconardtown
once a week.
I.eave Baltimore every Friday at 10 a m, arrive
at Annapolis at Jp m. Leavo Annapolis pn Sa
turday at 6 a m, arrive at Upper Marlborough
by noon,arrive atPifcataway by 6 p m. E. arrive at
Lconardtown every Monday forenoon by 90' clock. 1
Returning—Leavel.eonardtown every Monday at 3 1
pm, arrive at Pifcutaway on Tuesday by 6p m '
arrive at Upper Marlborough on Wednesday hy
II am, and arrive Annapolis by 6p m. I.eave '■
Annapolis on Thursday by 7a m, and arrive at '
Baltimore by 3 p M. '
15. From Aimapolis by Lower Marlborough, c
Huntington ar.d Calvert court house to 3t. Leon- a
ards once a week.
keave Annapoli? every Saturday at 9 a m, and
arrive at St. Leonards on Monday by 3p «• Re- j
turning—Leave St. Leonards every Monday at 4 >
v m, and arrive at Annapolis the next Saturday by
6 a'M.
1 (t. From Bladenfturg by Upper Marlborough, !(
1 Nottingham, Lower Marlboroilgh, ' cqu^fco,3cn
ncdifl and Charlottehall to Chaptico week.
Leave Bladenlhurg every Saturday ;t 9 A 11, ar
rive at Upper Marlborough ty noon anil at-Lowcr
Marlborough by 5 r m, and at Chaptico by 6 r m.
J Rwiiviiig—Leave Chaptico evu-y n.uifilay at 6
_ a m , and arrive at Bladenfburg 0:1 Saturday at 6
. AM.
' 17. From Georgetown by Montgomery court
houft: to Fred-ricktown a week.
Leave Georgetown every Friday 6y 6 a m, and
arrive at Fi'fdericlttown by 6 em. Returiiing—
Leave Ffcdericktown every Ihurfday by- 5 am,
and arrive a: Georgetown by 6 p m.
VIRGINIA.
'' 18. From Woodilock by NewmUrkct, Rocking-
court house, Staunton, Lexington ani Fincai
tlc to Big Lick once a week,
j Leave Woodftock every Thursday by 6a m, ar
rive at Staunton on Friday at 1p h. Leave Sraun
■ ton every Friday at i pm, arrivS at Big Lick on
c Sunday by 11 am. Returning—Leave Big Lick
V on Sunday by Ip m, arrive at Staunton every Tues
day by II a m. Leare Stauntom l»y 1% o'clock
8 (noon) and arrive at Woodilock on Wednesday by
5 P M
-19. From Big Lick by Montgom ry court house
' and Wythe court house to Abingdon once a week.
• Leave Big Lick every Su.tdav at Ip m, arrive
at Wythe court house on Tuefdjy by a p m, and at
• Abingdon on Wednesday by 6p m. Returning—
' Leave Abingdon every I hurfday by 6a m, arrive
f at Wythe court house on Friday by s pu, and ar
rive at Li:k on Sunday bv II A M.
TILNNSStJeE.
5 20. From Abingdon, Vir. by Jonefborough,
Greenville,Moffat's (lore and Jeffcrfon court houle
1 to Kn||xvilie once a week. »
Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6 a m, ar
rive at Moffats (lore on Saturday by 8 a m. Leave
Moffatsby 9 a m, andarrive at Knoxville on Sun
day by 10 a m. Returning—Leave Knoxville eve
ry Sunday by J p m, arrive at Moffats on Monday
1 by 3p m. Leave Moffats on Monday at 4p m,
! and ai rive at Abingdon on Wednesday by 7p m.
VIRGINIA.
li. From Winchefler by Romney to Moorfields
once a week.
Leave Winchefler every Thursday at 6 a M.and
arrive at Moorficld on Friday by 6P M. Return
ing—Leave Moorficld every Saturday at 8 a M,and
arrive at Wincheller on Sunday by 6PM
li. From Alexandria by Centerville, Leefburg
and Shepherddown to Martinlburg once a week
Leave Alexandria every Wedt efday at 9 a m,
' and arrive at Martinlbarg on Friday by to am.
Returning—l - fcvc Martialburg every Friday by
noon & arrive at Alexandria on Monday by 7 a m j
tj. From Freder|i.kfol)urg by Port Royal, Lay
to«s,Tappaba>inock, Urbarina and Glouc«fter court I
, v ~y f - si Vj-- 1 "——p - —'■
Leave Frcdcricklburg every Wednesday 2t 6 a
m, arrive at 'I appahannock on Thursday by ta
a m. Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive at
Yorktown on Saturday by ham. Returning—
Leave Yorktown every Saturday at i P M, arrive
1 at Tappahannock the next Monday noon andarrive
at Fr.'dtrickikurg on Tuesday by 5 M.
24. From Tappahannock by Richmond court
koufe, Wedmorcland court house, Kinfale, Farn
ham church and Northumberland court house to
i Lancafler court house once a week'
Leave Tappahannock noon and
arrive at Lancaller court Saturday by 1a
am. Returning—LeaveLancallcr court house ev
ery. Saturday by i P M. and arrive at Tappahan
nock on Monday by 11 a m.
at. From Fredericklburg by Ciflpeper court
house to Charlottefville &Orangec. h.oncs a week.
Leave Frederickfburg every Tuesday at ao a m,
and arrive at Charlottefville on Thursday by 11 a
m. Returning—Leave Charlottefville on Saturday
at 8 PM, and arrive at Frederickfburg on T»ef
day by 6 a m.
a 6. Frem Richmond by Goochland court
house Columbia and Charlottefville to Staunton
once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at I r M, ar
rive at Charlottefville on Thursday by ham,
Leave Charlottefville bv noon and arrive at
Staunton on Friday by 11 am. Returning—
Leave Staunton oa Saturday by 6 A M, arrive at
Chailottefvil'.e by 7 p M.and arrive at Rich
„ liifc n**vT'.v«f«'Uiv~-trr- ... —-
27. rrom Staunton hy Bath court-hcufc and
Sweet Springs to Greenbrier court-fcoufe oneea
week.
Leave Stsunton everj Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Greenbrier court-hsufe on Mortday by
6 p ii. Returning—Leave Greenbrier court
house every Mondiy by 9 a m, and arrive at
Staunton on Thursday by 8 pm.
aB. From Charlottefvile by Warren, War
minfter, New-Market, Arahcrft court house,
Cabellfcurg, and Maddifonto Lynchburg once
a week.
Leave Charlottefville every Thursday at 1 P
M. and arrive at Lynchburg on. Saturday at 6
p M. Returning—Leave Lynchburg every
Tuesday by 6 a m, and arrive at Charlottefville
on Thursday by 10 A M.
29. From Richmond by Hanovertowir, Ay
letts and Todds to Tappahannock once a week
er if carried in stages as often a» they rtiall run.
Lea,ve Richmond every Wedntfday at 5 A M,
arrive at Todds at 3 p m, and at Tappahannock
on Thursday at 11 am. Returning—Leave
Tappahannock on Monday at 1 p m, and ar
rive at Richmond on Tuesday by 5 p m.
30. From Richmond by Hopkins's, Powha
tan court house, Cumberland court house, Prince
Edward court house and Lynchburg to New-
London, once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A M,
arrive at Prince Edward on Wednesday at 4 p
M, and arrive at Lynchburg on Friday at 8 A Mp
and at New-London by 10 AM. Returning—
Leave New-London every Friday at a P M, ar
rive at Lynchburg by 5 p M, arrive at Prince
Edward on Saturday by 7 p m, and arrive at
Richmond on Monday by 4 P M.
31. From New-London by Liberty to Fincal
tle once a week.
Leave New London every Friday at 1 p m,
and arrive at Fincaflle on Saturdiy'by 6 pm.
Returning—Leave Fincaflle on Monday at 5 a
M,and arrive at New London on Tuesday noon.
32. From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar
tinvilleonce in two weeks.
Leave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A
m, and arrive at Martinville on Sunday by 6 P
m. Leave Martinville on Monday by 6 A M,
and arrive at Liberty on Tuesday by 6 P M.
33. From Prince Edward court house by
Charlotte court ho*fe to Halifax court house
once a week.
Leave Prince Edward court house ev;ery Thurs
day at 6 A M, and arrive at Halifax court honfe
on Fiiday at 10 AM. Returning—Leave Hal
ifax court house on Friday by a P M, and ar
rive at Prince Edward court house on Saturday
by 6 P M.
VIRGINIA anJN OR T H-CAR 0 LIN A.
34. From Halifax rourt-boufe by Halifax old town,
Carters, Martinville, Patrick court-houfr, Upper Sau-'
ra, Geimantown and Bcthania to Salem once in two
I weeks.
Leave Halifax court-house every other Friday at
2, PM, and arrive at Salem the next Monday bv 6,
P M. Reiurulng —Leave Sa!em every o her Tuesday
at 6, A M, and aarive at Halifax court-house on Fri
day by 10, A M.
Fiom Harris's by Hjckes'sford to Halifaxtwicc
a week.
Leave Harris's every Wednesday and Saturday by
A M. and arrive at Halifax by 6, P M. Return
ing—leave Halifax every Thursday and Sunday by 6, j
A M, and arrive at Harris's by 7, P. M.
VIRGINIA.
36. From Smithfield by Southampton ,«3Urt T'oufe -
to Hicket's ford once a v. cck.
j I cave every other Friday by 2, PM, ]
j and at Smithtield 011 Saturday by 5, P M.—
I Re'umin^ —I.esve oihcf Sunday by ]
< .5» A M, ar.d arrive at Hiclu'a ford on Monday by
j 2, PM.
| 37. FromGoldfonsby Secibridge, St. Tammanv's,
j MccWltnljcrg'4nd court-houfes and td
mundi store to Goldfon's nee a week.
L<?j»v t Gold ion's every Wednesday at 10, A M» and
return next Saturday by ?, PM, waiting at each
Poft-Oflice 2 hours after delivery of the mail.
riRQISIA c>. NORTH-CAROLINA.
38 From SufF.ilkby Edenton, Plymouth and Wa
' • fhingtori to Newbem. once a week Leave Suffolk
' eveiy Monday at noon, arrive at Edenton on Tuef
| dav at 1, P M, at Piyinouih, on Wednesday by 6.
' A M, at Wafliimrton by 6, P M, and at Tsewbern on
j Thursday by P \J. Newbern
every Friday by 6, A M, arrive at Wafliiiigion by
5. P M. Arrive at Plvmouiii on Saturday by 4
P M, Sunday by 9, A M, aud ai Suf
-1 folk oa Mon4«.y by 9» A M..
: NORTH CAROLINA.
39. From fcdemonby Hertford. Nixonfon, Eliza
bHii city, and Jonefourg to Indian-tovvo, once a
• week.. r {
Lea*r Edenton 4 evejy Wednesday by 1., A M, and
. amW at on Ihu fday by 6, P M. Re
turning—Leave Indiaiirownevefy Tuesday by 3, A M,
, and arrive at; on Wednr fday at 11, AM.
J 40 Halifax by Northamptm eouit-houfe 4
Princeton,'Murfreclbnrough, Wintou and Windsor
to Eden toil, onfce a week.
Leuve.Halifaxevery Monday at q, AM, and arrive
at Edenrcnoa Wednesday by 3, P M, leave Eden
ton on Wednesday bv 6, P M, and arrive at Halifax
6n Sarur ay by 11, A M
» 41. From Hal fax by Sco* land, Hogton, Williams
; ton and Daily's to Plyrffouth, week. Leave
Halifax every Monday at i«, A M, p#id arrive at Ply
mouth on Wednefdav by 10, A M. Returning—
Leave Piyraouth On Wednesday at 2, P M, and ar
rive at Hllifax op Friday at 10, A M. '
42. Fro hi Haliiax by Taiboro' and Greenville to
Waftiiojtononce a week
( Leave Halifax every Monday at 10, AM, and ar
rive at Washington on Wednesday h* 16 A M. Re
turning—Leave Wa(hin<rton every \'» tonefday at a,
P M, and ariivo at Halifax on Friday at so, A M.
43* From Halifax by \\ 3rrenton,Wi!liamfboroogh,
Oxfordt Hillfborough, Martinville, Sa.em, Lexing
ton, Jialilfy-iry and Statefville so Oharlot'te and from
Charlotte by Cabarras court-house to Sal.(bury, and
from thence by the fame route to Halifax, once a
week.
Leave Halifax every Monday at 9. A M, arrive at
Warrcutoo by 7, P M, arrive at Hillfborough on
Wednefd?v at 4, P M, at Silem on Friday by 5,
P M, at Salilburv on Sa at 4, P M, and ai
Charlutteon Monday by 6, AM. Returning—leave
Charlotte on Monday at 10, A M s arrive at Salisbury
on Tuesday by 10, AM* arrive atSal.mi. Wed
nesday at 9, A M, at Hillfborough on Friday by 9,
A M, at Warrentonon Saturday at 7, P M, and at
HalVfax »o Monday at 6, A M.
44 by Mount fon
court«h»ufe, Lealburg, Cafwell couruhoufe and Roc
kingham court-house to Germantowti once in two
weeks.
Leave Hillfborough every other Thursday at 6, A M,
and arrive at Germantown on Saturday at 4, P. M.
Leave Germantown every other Sunday at 6, A, M,
and arrive at Hillfborough on Tuesday at 4, P M.
45. From Sa'em by Beihania. Huntfville, Hfoch
ford, Wilkes, Morgautou and Rutherfordton 10 Spar
tanburg in S. C. once in two weeks.
Leave Salem tveiy other Saturday at 5 a m, and ar
rive at Spartanburg on Wednesday at 5 pm. Leave
Spartanburg every other Thursday at 7 a m» and ar
rive at Salem the next Monday at 6 r m.
46. From Louifburg by Nafh court-house to Tar
borough once a week.
Leave Tai borough every Friday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at Louifbuig by 6r m. Returning—Leave Louif
burg every Saturday by 6 a m, and arrive at Tarbo
rough by 6 p m.
47 From Raleigh by SmithficJd, Waynefbor ugh
and Kirgflon to Newbern, once in two weeks.
Leave Raleigh every other Tuesday by 8 a m, and
arrive at Newbern the, next Friday bv 10 a m.
Returning Leave Newbern every other Friday by 2
r m and arrive at Raleigh on Monday bv 6 r m.
48. ] 'rom Raleigh,by Chapel hill to Hillfborpugh, I
and from Hillfborough by Chapel hill and Chatham
court-house to Raleigh, once a week. To wait two
hours at Chatham court-house.
Leave Raleigh every Tuefdly by 6 a m, and ar
rive at .H-i'fborough by 6 p m. Returning— Leave
every .Wednesday by 8 a m, and arrive
at on 1 l». )r fdly oy 16 a m.
49. From Fayet'eviile by Elizabethtown, Be|lefort
and Springfield 10 Wilmington, and from Wilming
ton by S. Wafhmgton, Saiefto and Sampson court
house to Fayetieville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Tuesday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Wiloiinfjon ®n Thursday at 10 a. M. /ff
tuming—Leave Wilmi'igton every Thursday r 4?' m,
and ariive at Fayetteville on Sunday by 5 p m.
50. From Fayetteville by and Randolph
court-house U> Salisbury, and from Salisbury by Mont
gomery court-house, Anfon couii-houfe and Rich
mond court-house to Fayetteville, once a week*
Lelve Fayetteville every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Salisbury on/ruefdsy by 9 am, Leave Sa
lisbury every Tuesday noon and arrive at fryettevine
on Friday by 6 p m. '
51 From Newbern by Trenion and Richland to
Wilmington once a week.
Leave Newbern every Friday at 10 a m, and arrive
at Wilmington on Sunday by 6p. m. Leave Wil
mington every Tuesday at 10 am, and arrive at N ew
beni on Thursday by 6 p m.
SOUTH iff NORTH CAROLINA.
sa. From Camden by Lancatter court-house, Char
lotte and Lincolnton to Statcfville, once in two
weeks.
every other Monday at 6 a m, ar
rive at Statefville *n Thursday by 6 p m Leave Sratef
ville every other Friday by 2 p m, aod arrive at Cam
den on Monday bv 6 r m.
SOUTH-CAROLINA,
53. From Columbia by Winnfborough, Chester
court-house, Pinckneyville, Aetna furnace, Spartan
burg and Greenville Pickcnfville, and
from Pickcnfville by Laurens court-house and New
bury court house to Columbia, once a week waiting
otie hour at each pofl-of3v:e on the route.
Leave Columbia every Monday at 9 a m, arrive at
Spartanburg every* Wednefdav by 3 r m, arrive at
Pickcnfville on Thursday at 4 p m,'arrive at Laurens
court house on Fiiday at 4 p m, and at Columbia on
Sunday by 6 p m.
54. From Columbia by Orangeburg to Charlcflon,
once a week*
Leave Columbia every Monday at 10 a m. and ar
rive at Charleston on Thursday at 10 a m. Returning
-—Leave Charleston every Thursday at 1 p 11, and ar
rive at Columbia on Sunday at noon.
SOUTH CAROLINA & GEORGIA.
55. From Edgefield court-house by Cambiidge,
Abbeville court-house, Pendleton court-house,. Hai
tonsford, Franklin court-house, Eiberton and Peters
burg to Washington, and from Wrfhington by Pe
tersburg and Cambridge to Edgtfieid court-house,
once a week.
Leave Edgefield court-house every Friday by 8 a m
arrive at Pendleton court-house cn Sunday by 9 am,
arrive at Franklin court-house by 7 p m, at Petcrfburg
on Tuesday by 10 a m, and at Washington by 5 p
m. Leave Washington every Wednesday at 6 a m,
at Cambiidge on Thursday by *0 aju, and at Edge
field court-house by 7 p m.
56 Frdm Augulla by Washington, Grecnfburg and
Lexington to Georgetown, once a we<k.
Leave Augusta every Monday at 3 p m, arrive at
Washington on Tuesday by 5 p m, and arrive at
GeOigeiown en Thursday by 7 r m. Returning—
Leave Georgetown every Fiiday «it 6 am, sudariiye
at Aug'iOa by nnon on Monday
57. From Gardens Corner to Beaufort oricea week.
Leave Beaufort every Thursday at 2 r m, and arrive
ai Gardens Corner by 8 p m. Returning—Leave Gar.
der s Corner every Thursday at 5 a m, and ariive at
BAifort by x q A . m.
Note I. The- Pofi Mafer General may alter the times
of arrival and d/parturt at any time during the continuance
of the contra fls, he previptfy Jlipulating an adequate com
perfation for any extra expense that may be occa/ionedthere
by
Note 2. Half an hour shall be allotved Jor opening I
ami clofytg the Mai!at all ojic es "where no particular time I
is fpecified\
Note 3. Forevoy hour's deli) ( unavoidable accidents •
excepted) inarriving after the tines pre fir ibed in any con
trail, the Contractor fha.ll forfeit one dollar, and if the de
lay continue until the departure of any*de tending Mail,
whereby the Mails defined for such depending' Mail, lofc
a. trip, an additional forfeiture of jiue dollars /hull be
incurred•
Note 4 Newspapers as well as Let'en arc to be sent
in the Mails ; and if any person making proposals deftres
to cirry n:~v[>aDers other than those conveyed in the.mail,
f.r his own emolument, be mufl Jlate in bis propyls for
lohat jam he will carry it luith that emolument and for
■what sum vy'Lout that emolument.
Note 5 - Should any per fan making propof.ils desire an
alteration of the times of arrival and Jipat tare above fpe
cifed, he wuQ 'late in his proposals the alterations deli red,
an i the difference tbey ivill make in the terms of hia cm -
trail.
Mote 6. Persons m.Aitg proposals are deftred to Jlate
their prices in gross by the yesr, and not by the mile.
Tbafe ivho contratl ivill receive their pay quarterly, in
the months of f-amuiry, April, July and October, in
draf% on the po,l offices on the roate and in bank notes.
Note "J. The contracts are to be in operation on the fir-1
day of April next, and continue for four years, until
.the 31 (I day of Alar eh inclujive, in the y tar 1 Bq2.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Poft-Mq/ler GeneraL
General Post Officf., ")
Philadelphia, December 18, 1797;,)
tuth&st3l flj
Mrs. G RATTAN,
RESPECTFUL'Wtf informs thel.adies and Gen
tlemer of the city, that hr firft CONCFRT
of Vocal Mu(ic will be on Thurfdajr next, the lift
of December, inlt. at Mr. Richardet's.
ACT I.
Quartette, Pleyel
Sang—Angelsever bright, Handel
Glee—MclTrs. Carr, Darley, jun. and Hill,
The Mariners
Song—Mr. Carr
Duett—Mrs. Grattan and Mr. C irr, Paflcillo
Song—Mr, Darley, ju«,
Scotch Glee—Mrs.Grattao, Mcltrs.Carr, Darley,
Hill.
ACT. If.
Concerto Piano Forte, ( by a young lady) Viotti
Song—Mrs. Grattan, Sacchini
Glee—Meilrs Carr, Darley and Hill, Jackson
Duett—Mrs. Grattan and Mr. Carr, Time
[has not thin'd
Song—Mr. Darley, jun.
Quartelle —Mrs. Grattan, Meflrs. Carr, Darley
and Hill.
Six dollars each fubferiber for one ticket of ad
mittance during the feafoo.
No fuhferibers ticket transferable, but any fuW
fcriber on paying his fubfeription, will have a right
to demand tickets for the unmarried part ot his fa
mily, which ticket will admit thrui every night
during the season, hut are not transferable.
The Concert tdflbgin athaif past fix and themu';
fie to attend for the Ball at eight, the expence of
which Mrs. Grattan engages to discharge.
Non-subscribers ticket —a dollars.
Stibfcriptions received and tickets delivered by
Mrs. Grattan'sclerh, at No. 191, High-street,
Non-subscribers tickets to be had the day of the
Concert at the Bar at Mr. Richardel's.
December 15 dtuft
Creditors of BlairM'Clenachan,
und of Blair M'C.'cnachan and Patrick Moore,
are requested to meet ot the Coffee honfe, at fix
o'clock, in the evening of tht 19th inft. A full
and pun&ual attendance is required, as buftnefs
of importance will be brought to light.
December r6. *3l
balE ~~
MP . FRANCIS refpe<slfully informs his scholars
and the public in general, that his firil Bull
will be on Tuesday, the 19th of December, at the
New Aflcmbly Room in south Fourtii street, be
tweed Chefnut arid Walnut street.
Ladies' Tickets to be had by applying to the
scholars of Mr. Francis, or £ his house, no. 70,
north F.ighth street.
OentleincnV , at one dollar t*ch, to be
; ba i at the New Affably Room, or of Mix F at
his house. December 16— 3t
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
THE Shareholders are hereby notified, that an
" Elidion of Officers for the ettfuing year, will be j
held at the Company's offiie, no. jj, north Fourth
street, on Wednesday, the 10th day of January
next, v 11 o'clock.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MAR ACHE, Sec'ry.
December I 6 eodtiothj
BY virtue of an order of the Orphan's Court,
will be expose.l to Sale, on the ifeth current,
at m. at the premises, afmallframe
Hutift and I .ot, situated on the earner of Spruce
and Eighth streets, fubjeit to an annual ground
rent of fifteen pounds, late the property of An
thony Lebeck, deceased,
MAKGAREr LEBECIC, AdmintJUatrix.
Dece'iiber 16. «jt
Alphabetical Lift of Duties,
Payable by law on all Goods, Wares, and Mei>
chandize, imported into the United States—latest
edition, to be fold by JOHN ORMROD, no. 41,
Ch»fnut-ftreet. Dec. j6—d
New-Theatre,
December 11, 1797.
THE Managers particularly reqaeft the con
currence of the public in the abolition of a
cuftosn, which lias hitherto obtained, ef giving a
way or disposing of RETURN CHECKS at the
Theatre. «
They are aware that gentlemen are unconscious
of any wrong dene to the interest of the inft tu
tion by this practice, from a general, though rnif
taken idea that Cheiks are the representatives of a
right to so many feats in the Theatre, during an
Evening's Entertainment, and transferable at will;
when in fadt, they were never intended as more
tnan tuhut by which the Door-keepers are enabled
to afcertairs with the least trouble to the parties, that
the* themfclvei have been before in the fheatfe, or
paid for their admiffiun.
Independent of the inj® y the Managers sustain,
such a practice encourages a croud of idle boys and
other disorderly persons to surround the doors of
the Theatre, to the corruption of their morals and
the great annoyane'e of the Audience.
It has also been the fotirce of two evils of no iu
confiderablc magnitude; one is, that fomctiines
very improper company is by thel'e means admit
ted ; and the otber, that owin 4 to Checks palling
into difhonclt haut'.s, they have been frequenaly
counterfeited to a large amount for the pur poles of
Sale.
This statement will, it isrefpeitfully hoped, in
duce the Public to discourage fudi a traffic : and
the exertio.-js of the Managers wilt, if thus allillcd,
easily prove adequate to its entire abolition.
WIGNELL £3" REINAGLE.
December 13 iw
Uriah Smith,
No. so, north Third street—has for salk,
A reat and general afiortment of
Broad Cloths,Kerfeymeres,Napt
and Drab Coatings. also,
A variety of Gentlemen*' fafhionable fancjf Waift
conting, filh Hoficry, s«c.
December 5. *coclaw
NEW" THE ATR K.
THIS EVENING,
' DECEMBER 18,
Will be prei'cnte.l (tor the ferond time) a new CC.
MEDIT, called,
Wives as they Were,
AND
Maids as they Are.
[Written by Mrs Inchbald. autborefs of Every One
has his Fault, Such Things Are, &c ]
Tiwhichwill be added, a COMIC
two adb, tailed, _
Lock and Key.
Brummagem, - - - Mr. Francu
Cheerly, .... Mr. Marlliall
Captain Vain, ... Mr. Fox
Ralph, .... Mr. Harufood
Laura, .... Mrs. Warrell
Fanny, .... Mrs. Oldmixoti
Box, oue Dollar ; Pit, three quarters.of a X>ql
lar ; and Gallery, ha|f a Dollar.
jJj" The doors of the Theatre will open at five,
and the curtain rife precisely at fix o'cjock. '
Places for the Boxes to be taken at the o'ffice in
the front of the Theatre, from 10 tiil i o'clock,
and from to till 4 on the days of performance.
Tickets to behyi at H. and Rice's book-.tore,
No. 50 Mark:t-ftreet, and at the Office adjoining
the I'heare. VIVAT RESPURLTCA >
Hibernian Society
A stated meeting of the Hibernian So
ciety, for the relief of Emigrants from Ire
land, will be held at Mr. M'Shane's tavern
in 1 hird street, at seven o'clock this even
iug.
MATHEW CAREY, See.
Dee. 18. -
Marlhals Sales,
United States, 1 _.
Pennsylvania Diflri&.J
BY virtue of a Writ of venditioni exponas, issued
out of the Circuit Court j!of the United Stvei,
in and for the Pennsylvania Dillriel of Middle
Circuit, and to m« direfled will be fold at public
faie at the Marlhals Office 111 Race Street No. 117,
on Saturday the 30th day of December infl. at n
o'clock at noon, two elegant engraved Copper plate*
of Shakespeare, one plate of Harmony, Bartolezzi,
one plate ef prudence, do. one plate of meekness, do
one plate of beauty, do. and one plate of Harvsii
home do—Seized and taken in execution as the
property of T»if|rani Bampfylde Freeman, and
John Nicholfun, Merchants, trading under the firm
of Freeman and Company, j
And to be fold by
William Nichols,, Marshal
Marlhals office }
December 18th 1797. f • dtf
' STOLEN ~
Out of the fubferiber'g office a large Hue
cloth claai, half worn- The infidc of the
Collar is faced with scarlet velvet and partly
with scarlet cloth, and it has a filref hook
aad chain as a fattening. A suitable reward
will be paid for restoring it.
WILLIAM MEREDITH "
No. 111 South 3d Street."
Dec. 16. divy
For Savannah, in Georgia,
£>§rX The Ship ARAB,
' Thomas Donohue, Matter,
R«*dy to {ail—Can accommodate a few
For Surinam and Curracoa,
George Washington,
JU«H DtviKttx
4I or Freight, or Pjflage', apply to
~ » STEPHEN KINGSTON^
No. 46 Walnut, or 33 Dock-lliert,
Who has a few Boxes of
Bloom and Muscatel Raisins, and
Gin in Pjpes.
December 18. *2t
WANTE D,
A LARCF. PARCEL OE
Scantling and other Lumber,
Suitable for House Building ;
Alfoa quantity of Stone & Bricks,
] aoi ready to enter into contrails for the a
bove articles—a reafonalde lime may be allowed
for preparing them ; and calh (hall be paid either
in advanre, or up n their delivery, asijmaybea
greed on. —Apply to theSubfcriber, Houfe-Car
pentcr, Lumbal d-ltreet, No. ®.
"John Crean.
DccrvnSer ro. dot.
Philadelphia and Lancatterfurn-.
pike Company.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
annual Ele&ion for O iScers for the ensuing
year,will be held at the Company's Office in Philar
dclphia, on thefecond Monday in January next, at
la o'cl-ck, a. M. VVm. OOVETT, Sec'ry.
Dreeml er 7. its m&wtyj
Insurance Company of North
America.
A Meeting of the Stockholders is to be held, a.
greeably to adjournment, at the Company's office,
on the firft Monday in January next, at 11 o'clock,
A. m. EBEN. HAZARD, Sec'ry .j
December 14. tb&mtiftj
Tnfurance Company of North
America..
THE Stockholders arc hereby informed, that a
stated meeting of the Company will be held at
their office on the ninth day of January next (bo .
in<>;the second Tuesday in the month) for theElec-.
tion of twenty-five Directors for tlaeenitfi'ttg: year.
eben. hazard, set'vy.
December 14. »• th&mtythj
musicT
J. L. LENZ,
R Teacher ol Vocal and instrumental Music,
ti'URNS his fine ire thanks to the Ladies and
. Gentlemen, from whom he received a very
liberal encouragement fincc his residence in this ci
ty, and refpevftfully informs his friends and the pub
lic generally, that, in confequejice df the request
of some cf his fricuds, he has opeued a MuHca!
ochool at his house in Sprace Street No 174, where
he will teach «« the Piano forte, Violin scc. <3cc.—
He deem? it unneccflary to enlarge upon the ad
vantages the learner will derive from an inOituti*
011 of this kind; he will only fay, that attention
and 2?31 are piuch excited in an aflVmbly, where
numbers arc in pursuit of the fame obje&. His
arrangement ie such, that an interference of the
the different fcxes will be avoided. Those ladies
and Gentlemen who cannot make it convenient to
attend at his school, he will wait upon at their
houfea. Applications will be thankfully receiv
ed at hit house, where his terms and further parti
culars piay be known.;
Dec. 7. *rwcod vCONGR E S S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
v
THURSDAY DECEMBER 14..
Continuation, of tht Debate on the fubjiß of
ForAgn Coins.
Mr. Ha vens thought the report of the
, committee was somewhat inconsistent, as it
proposed crowns, &c. should pass at their
full value at the cudom house, yet expect
ed them to depreciate, and by that means get
to the bank. Besides, said he, their not be
ing a legal tender, will not depreciate them ;
for it was not one payment in ten thousand
in which it was necefl'ary to make a legal
tender : it was seldom, that a creditor was
compelled to receive a debt ; creditors were
every where ready to receive tV|eir money
. generally before their debtors were ready to
pay. Banknotes were not alegaltender in
sny parts of the United States, yet there
'was no difficulty in pafSng them. If a cre
ditor were offered cup-ent money, he would
not care any thing about its not being a le
gal tender ; but, if n legal tender were re
quired, it would be an easy matter to pro
' cure money which was legal for that which
was current. The inconvenience which
had been complained of, from the deprecia
tion of crowns, arose from the alarm which
the proclamation on the filbjeft had occa
sioned ;but when thatalarm ceased, which it
soon would do, crowns would pass as usual.
He was warranted in this supposition by the
law refpefting eppper coin, which - forbade
any copper coin, except cents and half
cents, from being circulated, on pain of be
ing forfaited, besides ten dollarsas a penalty ;
y«, notwithstanding base copper coin was
every where in circulation. He refered to
another law of a similar nature. It was
clear, therefore, that coin would not be ferc
cdNnto the mint, except its value was de
- preciated, which must be effefted not only
oy faying it shall not be a legal tended but
by making it penal to offer it in payment.
Besides, if it wo,!' 1 have the efjpft to force
the foreign, coin into the cuft'om-houfes, it
would never get into the mint. The coin
eollefted at Boston and other distant ports,
did not come to Philadelphia ; but, fnppofe
the law fixed the matter so, that such coin
should come into the T rea f u, 7 of tfce Unft
ed States, it would not be difficult to (hew
that it would be impossible for government
to put it into the mint to be recoined. He
was warranted in this conclusion by the law
regulating foreign c<oin. That aft, he said,
declared, that all gold and silver coin, except
Spanish dollars, and parts thtreof, received
by government, should not be re-ifTued-, but
sent to the mint to be re-coined ; yet this
law had not been complied with. Mr. H.
r said, he was on a committee refpefting the
mint last year, and he enquired of the Se
cretary of the Treasury why this law had
not gone into effeft, arid he was given for
answer, that the mint was in such a situation
that it could not give any security that the
coin sent there would be, re-coined in any
reasonable time. Indeed, from what he said,
he inferred, that government wanted the
money so much,thatit could not befparedto
go to the mint. To agree to the report,
would have the appearance of giving fop
port to the mint ; but it would not be i tal
ly doing any such thing. This was his idea.
But if this coin were to go to the mint,
♦, where be the advantage ? He cou "
not fee any. H« believed, therefore, the
bed way would be to suspend the operation
' of the aft restraining the circulation of fo
reign coin, and leave the mint upon its pre
sent footing until something effectual could
be done for its support.
Mr. Baldwin said, in determining upon
the question before them, it was not neceff
srjr to examine the principles upon which
the mint was eftabliflied. Supposing all j
the principles, and the effefts supposed to be .
produced right, the only thing was, they \
wereexpefted to have been producedfooner J
than it was now found they were. He ,
could not agree to the motion of the gentle
man from Pennfylvani?. He thought they '
should extend the time of withdrawing fo
reign coin fro In circulation for a year or two
longer. Nor would he have it supposed
from the wish, that he was hostile to the !
mint .* he originally voted for it, and was
not now convinced it would not prove e- t
■ventually advantageous to the country. To
give further time for the maturing of this
business, was doing no more than they were
obliged frequently to do in other business |
under this government. They were scarce
ly ?ware how slowly the laws parted over so
e*tenfive a country as'' ours. He believed j
the law proposed to (top the circulation of
certain species of foreign coin had done ,
some good } but he believed it would have j
a bad effeft, if it were to take place the en- t
suing summer. He did not believe that
the mint establishment had ever before be-n
contemplated for so extensive a country as
the United States. In molt countries where t
njints were established, there was, he said, a t
great mercantile center, which afted like the 7
heart in the human body, to circulate the j (
medium of commerce. livthis country the
cafe was different. Some parts of the U-
nited States, he said, were almost as much
connected with other countries at they were
with other parts of our own. In Great- t
Britain, fnprinltance, when the coin got dc- t
based, it was always transmitted to London n
to be re-coined and new coin could always
be received in its flead. But, said he, we „
must be contented to move more slowly.
In some instances, where mints had been es
tablished, tfiere was not so much Bank pa- ].
per in circulation as in this country, which
had been a mean of retarding our progress. t(
He was not, however, for giving up the ob- t .
jett, becaule their expectations had been, in
some degree, deceived. He did not think [
the mint could ever be supported by foreign n
coin alone ; it%vould be necessary. to be sup
plied with bullion also. Gentlemen had
said the effefts of our coin had not been felt c
at all. They had certainly been fell confid- _
y erably, in some parts. Some valuable plate ' ;
'li?d, of late been brought to the mint from >
foreign countries, more than perhaps would ]
. be brought in futuie. But he hoped fur- c
ther time would be given before foreign 7
coin was attempted to be withdrawn from t
f circulation. J £
Mr. R. Williams wa3 in favor of post- ' r
e poning the operation of the law ; though j r
j he could not fee so diftinftly as other gen- j e
r tlertien the difference between the report of a
. the committee, and tue proposition of the a
t gentleman from Virginia. The committee i(
. fay French crowm, &c. shall be received for o
. revenue, but shall not be a common tender, g
[ If the report had rgade them a tender for tl
1 a " payments under the federal government, w
, he thought the report would have, been of tl
. equal extent with -.the amendment ; as he c<
r supposed congress had not the power of fay- w
j ing what should, or should not be a tender in pi
, the several dates. He thought he was war- c«
. ranted in this assertion by the constitution, tl
_ in the Bth feftion of the ift article of which tli
|. i' was said, " Congress shall have the pow- th
_ er to coin money, regulate the value thereof, jei
. and of foreign coin, and fix the standard of gi
. weights and measures and in v the ioth
, feftion of the-fame article, where it speaks fu
i of what the individual states shall not do, it w<
fays, "no (late shall coin money, emit bills ha
, of credit, make any thing but gold and fil- qi
. ver coin a tender in payment of debts." cc
. From these two pafTages of the constitution, la
it was evident, that that the individual flares tic
, might make a tender of what coin theypleaf- th
ed, provided they did it according to the wl
: value fixed upon it by congress. So that as
the difficulty would not be so great as had re
been imagined, if the law wasnot postponed, pe
though he thought it ought to be, as it had th
not been fufficiently notified. Another rea- ce
son with him for wishing for a postponement ha
was, that if farther time were given, the dif- th
ferent slates would make their tender laws fie
conformable to thofeof the United States afl
if not, they would keep up their prcfent laws w<
and there would be a clashing betwixt them, th
He profefTed himfclf a friend cf the mint wl
establishment, as he supposed the principles tit
upon which if was founded were laudable ha
and proper ; but he was againfl carrying th
any law into effeft which should injure the sal
people of the United States. ye
Mr. Gallatin said no kind of th>
aversion to the mint establishment itfelf; he ly
vvifhed to fee it well supported with bullion, Tl
and of importance to the United States ; ad
but he felt some aversion to the expences of an
the establishment, without any benefit being ! gr
produced from it. So far as this went, the cn
gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. Otis) cit
might apply his obfervatiou to him of " be- be
ing an enemy to the mintyet he thought an
that gentleman was mistaken in thinking the ftil
piefent queflion was so closely connefted in
with the existence of the mint. He believ- arj
ed if there were means of making the mint rei
establishment beneficial, they were not those mi
proposed by tkat gentleman. There were it
two fubjefts before the committee ; theone bo
to suspend the aft altogether, the other to ma
leave it to operate on gold coin only. He op
believed a single view of the quantity of otl
gold coin ifiued from the mint fmceits eftab- lio
iifhnient, would shew the latter to be an im- th(
proper measure. The whole amount of Ai
gold coined it the mint on the 30th of Sep- tra
te mber, 1796, was only the value of 149,445 wa
dollars. When the laws relative to the fuf- . de<
pension of the circulation of Foreign coins alv
were pafled, it was on the idea that at the i upi
time the provisions were to take effeft, there 1 wo
would be a fufficiency of our own coin to ' an(
supply its place. It was clear th?.t this wa».i tht
not thfe cafe ; and he did not fee how a per-! be
son could be charged withenmity tothc mint' wo
becaufe*he was dilpofed toallow farther time ' fak
for iis opsrationn. It could not be expeft- ' tht
ed, Mr. G. said, under prcfent circumltanc- j me
es.jthatmuch Foreign coin should be brought fpe
to the mint, until it were depreciated ; wo
therefore, unless the amendment of his col- ket
league went to depreciate it, they could not ero
suppose it would go to the mint. He drew ply
this conclusion from what had already taken wh
place ; for out of 10,000 ounces of gold rei{
which had been received at the mint, not flar
more than 1300 were in coin. Except Fo- wo
reign coin was, therefore, reduced to the mai
value of bullion, it would not go to the its
mint, and it would certainly be unjust to re- sam
due? it, whilst it remained in the hands of fere
the people. In relation to Foreign silver moi
coin, a difference of opinion cxifted whether wer
the law fhoilld be wholly or partially fuf- thu
pended as it related to it. In the firft place No
it might be observed, that the proportion filvi
which French crowns bore to whole amount and
of foreign silver coin in circ Ation was very cou
small, and therefore no great advantcge fro;
could be derived to the United States from fuel
throwing them out of circulation. But, bee
said he, suppose all the French crowns in the
. the United States, were now in the mint, the
and were to be re-coined into dollars, where was
would be the advantage ? He did not under- erni
stand that the objeft of the mint was merely givi
to put a certain impreflion upon money, but was
that we might observe a proper controul o- imp
ver our circulating medium, so a* to keep the
it pure. Suppose the proportion of French wa)
crowns to dollars, were as ten to one, would thei
not theeffeft be, that nine-tenths of our cir- coit
culating medium would (till be in Foreign obfl
coin ? Where then would be the advan- wot
tage ? If the French crowns were debased, mec
there would be some reasons for cal ing them mer
in, but not otherwise. It might be said it less
would give employment to the mint j but it ?
would be employment without advantage, mig
which could not be desired. But it had den
been shewn by. the gentleman ftom Mary- 'J
land, that if the French crowns were in the tive
banks, it would be impossible to get them i
to the mint, from the expence of tranfpor- jest
tation, and the loss which would be occafi- For
owed by the absence of the coin from their thti
coffers. There was, in his opinion, a havi
much easier way of replenishing the mint, wbt
without encountering any of the difficulties ban
which would attend the forcing out of cir- ton,
culation Foreign coin ; it was by rtiaking of t
an appropriation of joo,ooo dollars for the aboi
late purchase of bullion, nnd this was the biily
rom way in which it could he efTedlually dune.-
>uld But this was not all; suppose all the Foreign
fur- com in circulation re-coined into dollar?, '
rign What would be the effect ? They would
rom be exported by our pierchants equally with
« Spanish dollars, whereas, whilst the silver
oft- remained in croW'n, they were fuffered to
igh 1 rcmafh. Mr. G. said he had already obferv
en- I ed, he was opposed to the miut only, if no
of advantage could be derived from it; and if,
the after goinginto the bulinefs as far as possible,
tee it was found the eftablifnment could not be
for of any use,. it certainly would 1 e better to
ler. get rid of it. But whatever his opinion on
for this fubjedt might be, it was unconnected
•lit, with the present queiton. The of
of the committee on the fubjedt of the mint, re
'ne commended an appropriation of money,
ly- which was certainly the eheapefl w,ay of ftip
•in porting it. When that report came under
ar- confederation, question would arise whe
)n, ther the establishment was afeful, er whe
ch ther it should b'e abandoned. He hoped
w- the amendment of his colleague would be re
of, jeeted, and that of the gentleman from Vir
of ginia agreed to.
ith Mr. Otis rose to reply, and that
ks such arguments of the gentleman last up, as
,it were at all pertinent to the fubjedt would
ills have been more applicable if the original
fil- qiieftion relative to the suppression of foreign
1." coin were before the committee. But as the*
in, law afledtiHg this coin in adtual opera
tes tion, the true question was whether some of
if- the inconveniences were not pad remedy, and
he whether all theft objections would not occur
lat arter any limited period. The law had al- I
ad ready operated injuriously upon necessitous
•d, perfonswho had been compelled to part with
ad their foreign silver at a discount of ten per j
;a- cent. It was now accumulated either in the
nt hands of those who had speculated upon
if- their neceflities, or of those who had a fuf
,vs ficiency of other kinds of money, ani'could ,
i ; afFord the expence arid delay, if any, that ,
if/s would att<tid the re-coinage ; but to suspend
n, the law for two years, would enable thqfe ,
nt who held this coin to return it into circula
es tion aran advanced rate, among thofe-who i ,
.le had already been compelled to fuffer a loss j ,
lg the inconveniencies would be aggravated, and ,
he fall upon the fame class of people. Two ,
years hence, there would be more silver in |
of 1 the country, and it would be more remote
he jly diffufed with our increafug population. t
n, ! The obftruition of circulation would then j
I ; affedt a larger portion oi the community, ,
of and every argument would then apply with
ig ! greater force. If it was truethat the French
he crowns amounted o(f!y to a tenth part of the ]
s) circulating silver ; it wag a good reason for
e- beginning with the ftippreffion of those ;
ht and although a great part of the coin would
he still be foreign, a gradual reformation would t
:d in time supplant it altogether—but if this f
v- argument was intended to prove that if so- {
nt reign coin should not be decried until the r
fe mint had coined enough to supply its place; j
re it would follow that the mint should be a- t
ic bolifhed ; for this could never happen j no ;
to man acquainted with the nature of money t
le operations could imagine that by this or any ]
of other institution a fufficient quantity of bul- f
b- lion could be collected to supplant at once j
n- the whole foreign coin in actual circulation. {
of As to the expence and delay attending the j,
p- of the crowns to the mint, it 0
,5 was true that they would amount to a small j
f- ; deduction from their real value ; this mult
as always happen ; but tilt's would sals chiefly h
le | upon the Wanks into whose vaults the silver t
re , would bo colledted from the cuftam-houfes, v
:o and this would be rendered inconsiderable to
is.; those inflitutions, as large quantities could n
r-1 be transported with a fiViall escort, and they jj
it! would gladly defray the expence for the c
le | fake of having the money pass twice thro'
t- thu'r vaults. Mr. Otis denied that this i
-" 1 measure would facilitate the exportation of , 3
it specie. He did not believe that our dollars [j
; would be in greater demand for foreign mar- c
1- kets at least for sometime than French
)t crowns ; but however that might be, a lup
iv ply of specie would always be required, and £
n when required it would be procured for so- 1
d reign markets. If the coin was all of one j.
>t standard and denomination, no mifchief r(
>- would arise from its exportation The de- a ]
le mand would be jaft what it ought to be, and
e its place would be always supplied with the
fame kind of coin. It was only while a pre- 11
if ference existed in favor of one description of
t money, that unnatural 3nd forced means C
r were adopted for retaining the money, and
- thus obftrudting the free course of trade.
e Nor would this diminish the importation of
a silver—..The real difference between bullion S
it and coined filrer was so trifling iu most
y countries, that no reason was to be inferred
e from the small importatiohs of bullion, that E
n such a decided preference was given to coin S
, because it was current in 'this cojwtry—On
II the contrary the value of bullion being for
:, the most part superior to that of coin, it
e was often purchased by the European gov- S
•- ernments, and a premium was sometimes
Y givea for bringing it to the mints—This
t was the true reason why so little had been
- imported, but he had 110 apprehension that
p the merchants of this country would not al
ii ways be glad to receive silver and gold for
i their commodities, either as bullion or as Si
- coin. The course of trade was not to be
1 obftrudted byobftaclesof this nature—There
- would be always a quantity of circulating
, medium adequate to the purposes of com
-0 merte—And there could never be more or
t less than that quantity f«r a lotig period. Si
t Mr. Brookes wished the committee B
, might rife, in order to give time for eonfi
-1 deration.
The question for rising was put and nega
e tived 47 to 33.
1 Mr. Macon said it seemed to be the oto'-
- jedt of the friends of the mint to force the
- Foreign coin into the banks, and from
r thence into the mint; but they seemed to
3 have loft fight of those parts of the country S<
, where there were no banks. There was no
s bank, he said, from Alexandria to Charles
- ton, which embraced at least one-fifth part
r , of the whole Union, yet nothing was said
; about this part of the country. the
y- law was pollivhigreat inconveniences
- ; would be experienced in tlieAj parts of the
ij country, as there are more crowns in'clrcul
, j ation thin had been supposed. As to what
3 coin had been issued from the mint, it a
i mere trifle-; it was scarcely equal to the
r expences of government, in the civil and
) military departments, for fix months.
The queition on the amendment propo
> fed by Mr. Sitgreaves being put, it was ne
, gatived without a division.
Mr. N !C«plas's amendment then re
turning for Confide: n,
i Mr. Varnum thought it would be bed
to move to suspend the operation of the fe
cofid feihion of, the aft, as he had some
doubts as to the propriety of tht exprefiion
used in the resolution. "" ">
Mr. Nicholas acquiesced; and the ques
tion being put, it was carried without a di
vilion.
The committee then rofc, the House a
greed to the amendment, and a bill was or
dered to be reported.
T.f)t (Ktasette,
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 18.
Last Saturday night arrived from Ireland
Mr. Baxter, of this city, who left Cork on
the 28th of October, in the brig Ciiiclima
tus, (now at Reedy Island) and informs
that 3 days previous to leaving Cork, intel-1
ligence was received of the total defeat of}
the Dutch fleet. He Hates, that while the
British fleet under Admiral Duncan, were
repairing in Yarmouth Roads, (who had
left his ilation off the Tcxel for that pur
purpofe) a cutter brought hiro advice of the
Dutch -"eet being at sea, upon which the
Admiral as soon as possible went out, and
meeting the Dutch about the 17th of Oct.
they were totally defeated—the Dutch Rear
and Vice Admirals taken, with eight (hips
of the line; the remainder were pursued
when intelligence left the fleet. This
newsi-- without, doubt true, as, on the day
when Mr. Baxter left Cork, it,was confir
med by an express from Admiral Duncan,
which occv.lioned a royal salute to be fired
by all the (hips of war in the Cove.
Mr. Baxter has favoured us with papers
to the 12th of October, the latest brought
by the Cincinnati; they contain no news,
nor does our informant mention any intelli
gence from the Continent. (Amer. D. A.
Extraft of a letter from « Gentleman on his
way home from this City, dated Snotv
hill, Monday the nth inft.
" I have nothing particular to add, only,
that as I parted through Dover two men fuf
fered sentence of the law, which made a
strong impression on my mind—they were
nailed by both ears to the pillory, and cut
loose, leaving part of those naembers faft to
the wood. One of them receired thirty
nine lashes, the other, though condemned
to the fame ptuiifliment was excused by the
Executive from that part of the sentence on
supposition that he was unable to bear the
lash ; he had been previous to the trial by
some means furnifhed with a file with which
he cut off his hand cuffs, with the bar where
of he knocked down the Jailor and was mak
ing his escape, but being obftrudted by an
outer gate the Jailor came to himfelf, and in
his turn gave the Prifoncr a severe blow on
the (itk by throwing an iron wedge at him,
whi(ih laid him sprawling, and his life was at
firft despaired of—Now my Friend, I feel
myfelf mortified that the humpn form should
be thus mutilated, but yet I do think that
cropping the ears is but a ju!t and natural
pupifhment where the offence is such as re
quires a mark to he fct on the perpetrator to
prevent Similar pradtices. The crime they
had committed was the mod atrocious that
can be committed by man against man, mur
der itfelf not excepted.
These Fellows had stolen three Negro
Children in Kent County, whilst their Fa
ther was out at work, and they were actual
ly put on board a VefTel to be carried to Ca
rolina. The Father, Mother and Children
all born free.
*«* " A friend to la-ju: andfreedom 1 ' to
morrow.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED from
Ship Thomas Chalkley, Clark, Surinam
Mary, Patten, Havanna
Swift Packet, Gribben, Savannah
Brig Sally, Waldiou, Curacoa
Sch. Mary, Hunt, St.Thomas
Commerce, Arnold, Jacqmel
President, PeaVfon, Virginia '
Good Intent, Potter, Richmond '
Sloop Dolphin, Dickey, do. '
Hare, Smith, New-York '
Maria, King, do.
Mary, L'Hommedieu, do.
Margaret, Copes, Virginia
Sally, Potter, do.
CLEARED ' f o r ,
Ship Hamburg Packet,Swaine, Canton 1
Molly, Hodge, Liverpool
Deborah, \ ar4, St. Domingo 1
Philadelphia, Dove, St. Bartholomew 1
Arab, Donahue, Savannah <
Sarah, Jams, Boston ,
Snow Ceres, Nicolls, AuxCayes 1
Brig Tryphena, Griffin, Corunna <
Polly, Wroth, Gonaivts j
Ariel, Gardner, , St. Croix i
Belfey, Doyle, St. Augustine 1
Sally, Cahender, Teneriffc i
Malabar, Da Costa, Petit Guave j
Mentor, Pettingale, N. Carolina >
Two Brothers, Stodard, G»" . I
Venus, Grafton, - ' r o ia
Sch. Boston, Clark, ' Ssavannah
Hawk, Carhart Francois
Pole,
Diftjaf' oft' n s» Jtsremie
flan Ti Cork
T Y> Burrows, Surinam
J ar ' e > Conyngham, Havannah
I I* \ ."M *• "=•
"S Jupiter, Barb,.nk, Ncw-Y.ri
r ™r r ;^ AllilU ''' N. Carpli,;
I- Polly, V/ilUs, Alexandria
it Weymouth, Gutlme, New-York'
a John, Lambert, Frederic^
e Sloop Dependence, Carson, H.Tpani,^
I? T vT' Nantucket
Stork, Foster Norft)] £
Harmony, E.lwood, <j; tro
- The Colnmhia, Lolar, 80 davs from Am
l.srdam, is. arrived at Reedy iflaod.
The outward bound vessels left Reedy if].
ar;d la 3 Saturday morning.
1 1 New Tori, Dec. 16. • >
t Ship Vro-w, Sckcmmelman, Therjirop,
1 „ . Havanna, 14
Manilla, Swine, Isle of May,
" Leonora > Brazer, Havannah, _
" g rf ß r S ~'j Antigua, _
-JTheschr. Regulator, from Norfolk to this
. port, has put into New-London.
■ r> C Ti n B " rr ' °f the schr - Larhe > from
rortde Paix, says that pork commands the
, O'ravagant price of 30 dollars—fiour dull
s* e >'
By this day's Mail.
NE,W-YORK, December 16.
[Handedfor publication by Capt. M'Dougall. J
DEMARARA, OCT. n, J7Q7,
TO CAPT. MAIN WARING,
Of his Majejy's Jhip Babet.
'I sir,
• Wv, the under signed mailers of Ameri
can ve.Tels, with much pain, find enifelves
under the disagreeable necessity of complain
ing of the usage we have received t and con
tinue to receive fr6m Lieutenant Mackie,
commanding Lis Majeily's sloop George.—
Immediately after his arrival in this river, he
began to impress our ffamen, some of whom
he treated extremely ill, and what has been
probably the most unpardonable part of his
conduft, he has fandlioned his men undef,
hii own eye, to plunder our veffcls and peo
ple ; of which, proof fufficient can Be giv
en.—From the fchoot.er BetlVy, of Balti
more, two thirds of a barrel of beef w: 8
emptied into his boat and carried away j
besides several other articles from other vt(-
fels, hams, onions, Qlver Ihoe buckles, ra
zors, looking glasses, &c. have been taken.
Firmly relyingon your goodness, as com
manding officer, we have taken the liberty
thus to state candidly to you, what wecon
fider a grievance—and doubt not, but you
will injoin such orders as may appear proper
in this cafe. In the mean time, we conlid
er ourfelve« solely under your protedion ;
and several of us mean still further to claim
it 011 the failing of the fleet, which we fond
ly hope, will not be denied ns.
We are, Sir, yours 1 ,
John APDougaU, V/illiam Patterfon, John
Compton, J. Sm'th, A. Cross.
Thi* memorial was presented by John
M'Dougal, and William|Patterfon, on board
of the Babet ; when orders was given to
hoist the signal for the officers of the sloop
George, which was immediately complied
with ; when the officers belonging to the
said (loop George, came upon deck, the
captain politely asked them and us below ;
and after having them severely reprimanded
he ordered them on board, telling them to
let lieut. Mackie know, from him, if ke
heard any more complaints'of this, that he
would, put him under arrest, and fend him
to th« admiral in Martinique—and if you
have any Americans now on hoard, I deiire
you to deliver them up immediately.
Then addrefling himfelf to us—Gentle,
men I am sorry to hear of any such com
plaints—the latter part of your memorial
fliall be grantfd with pleasure ; and as ma
ny cf you as will be able to get ready to
fail with the fleet, will receive your inflec
tions outside of the bar.
To which we returned our hearty thanks
to capt. Mainwaring.
BOSTON, Dec. 9. £ Centinel. 1
CAPE-FR/JNCOIS.
On the 18th Oct. the Commifton passed a
Decree -which revokes and annuls the Decree
of the 21ft Dec. loft. By this measure neu~
tral vrffels have liberty to go to or come from
Englijh ports, excepting to the ports -which
are in a fate of rebellion againjl the Republic
as -well tn St. Domingo, as in the -windward
JJlands. By the same Decree, there is a Tribu
nal hf prize causes ejlalifhed in the town of the
Cape, iomposcd of three Judges and a Secretary
The Commijfum reserves to itself the power of
ratifying or annulling the judgment rendered by
the said Tribunal, Polonois, secretary to tf>:
Commijpon tin the Cape, gave the above to
Capt. Hillman, about a month Jince■ and
requejled him to give it publicity.
A letter from Cadiz, of at late date, men -
lions, that notwithflanding the ht/lile appear
ance of the British and Spanijh Jhets, an open
tommunication between them was kept up, and
that Ad. Majfaredo, with his suite, had dined
with Lord St. Vincents, on board the Ville de
Paris.
BALTIMORE, December 14.
The ears of our citizens were last night,
about 11 o'clock, forthefirft time this sea
son; a (Tailed with the din of Fire! Fire!
which broke out in the liable of Mr." La
motte, ;n the north western precin&s of the
city. Notwithstanding its diflance and the
contiguity of the liable to the dwelling, the
exertion of the citizens saved every thi'V"
but the building which firfl caught, and 11
cow and horse which expired nearly as soon
as the alarm was given. The .ire was acci
dental, and arose, U pp o f e d, from the
negligence of t\Pu i- l 0 w j, o were that night
in tbc fe with a candle catching rats. .
| .rind as one accident generally accomps- .
nies another, we had as high a blaze, a.-
i though no fire, in the upper part of market
| street. Mr. Glagett's hcufe was endanger
j ed by placing a candle in the window, i
1 near the curtains, which were confwr<u ;
' and by throwing them into the fire plfte,
! set the chimney into a blaze. This fliou'd
J pperate as a caution, in placing candies a
the windows where there are curtains.A fwnn for iale,
■ t'
IfT Pcth Amboy in the itaic of New-Jo: fey,
of four hundred a -"es, including a proper v
proportian ot mcado'w, r.f aralr'e ami wood Q
lan !, sad 1 alt marsh : Therein on the prerr.ifts,
'a.'-good-apple orchard, and a variety ot other ;
Iruit irctv, it is wHI watered with iprwgs and
brooks, it is bounded on two iides with navi- ,
jraMe » nters and has a good mill site, its situa
tion is healthy and plcafant, commanding a
view of the navigation of Perth Amh<-»y and its
environs, and convenient to the fineit fifh and
oyOers in their proper feaibn, it'abounds with
natural manuretram which, with the advanta- j
gts ot the fait marjh by applying the hay there- a
from to the keeping of flock, may at a imali t
ercpenfe, be e:»riaicd to a gr^iidegree and rtu- (
tiered one of the firji grazing farms in the stale , i
it is w'ell calculated for a farmer or a gentle- )
man's feat, having several eligible Gtes for t
i)u;ldiny. This farm will be fold together or (
divided, as mar fuifc a purchaser, at private 1
Tale, or if not fold, will.be set up at public auc
tion on Tuesday the nineteenth day of Deqem
bsr n;*xt, at the house of Robert Raltoonty inn
keeper in Perth Amboy, at eleven o'clock in
Any person inclining topurchale j 1
may view the premises' by application to John ,
or Matt bias Ualfled at Perth Amboy, itora
wheutor from the HowJ Jonathan Dayton, E(q.
ipeaker of t!ie house of representatives of the
Uuiied States now in Philadelphia, from Mat- !
t-ins, lV:l!ianifbn s juri. efq. or Mr. Samuel Smith j
'at further information may be
obtained, — and who are pofleflld ot maps of
iftie fame.
Perth Amboy, Nov. 16, 1797.
15 —codtißD
Salisbury Estate. j
'X'H" Su'/criber, propjfing to cnniril hii bufi- 1
i ness, offers this F.lhte lor Me, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces, j
a complete Borcing Machine* a very t;ood grift j
Mill, ./liti. two pair of flints ; also a good Forge, all |
in pcrfett i. pan, as-ie all the Water Works conncil- |
I'd tvi;b theic various branches. Ihe Air Furnaces ]
wire lately built tor the puryofe r.f calling Cannon ■
fcir this Suic.—There are about two thouland
of Land, pne half of which is under wood, trie other
v>ty fine arable Land, producing the belt Hay and
Failure. I'ne Cannon lately mannla ured there,
fully proves ine excellency wf the metal, which is ,
(nptiior to any in this cbuntry, and probably, equal
til jny in the world ; for not one of fixty-niic guris
1 itfly midc, ahhough some of the 24 were bored
into as pound* s have failed on proving. The fuu
«non 'S very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufa£lurt,'aiid a placeot arms lying in the state
of ConneiTticut, and only 30 miles from several land •
ings on the Hudson's river, and ha«ng every advan.
tage that can retu't frem a pknty of water issuing
trotn a large natural po'r.d, very near the Furnace,
and whkh may be converted into a variety ot other
uiefal pur poles. '1 he purchaser can beaccominodat
ed with all the (lock and uitolili, and have polfenijn
onftr belore the firft of June next, and preparation
may be matkin the mtao time for going into Blast im
mediately thtre.lter, for every pan will be delivered
in fcOod order, with some c"al, Ore, ic. See. For
terms, »pplv to Mr. ]ofeph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, E'q. one of the ReprefentaUves
in Cor grefs tor this State ; Mr, D..vid Watnman, 011
the prctnlfes, or tothe prootietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee, t. 3 aWlf -
Houie and Lots, in Bordentown.
r'PO B£ SpLtJ, a tiafldfome two fiory Hotjfe. I
5. v/ith the Lot on which it is ereited, fituatcd
about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of liar C.itown. Ihe haufs is forty two
' feet front, ami in neat order, the tot contains
one acre!, and is one hundred feet on the main
street, anrf extend* with the fume breadth toback
ftitet. Alio, a large Lot, cor.taining nearly feur
acres, from the former Sy hack Hrect.
One third only of the purcU*fe Money will be re
quired upon executing a deed, and (or the re
mainder, i nch credit will be given aithe purchase
ermaychufe. This property will ue fold fre« •-
all incumbrance,and an indifpurible title givenf
For_jirther particulars enquire eith< r of Dr.
William Burnes, refi'Jinff in Burdentown, near,
the premises, who will (hew the fame, or > t
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, no; 144 i Market-street.
December 2. 3 awT^
Real liftate for Sale,
a PLANTATION, in a healthy and good si
tuation on Chester Crjek, in Middletan
TownJhip, Delaware County, containing 1191
acres, upwards of 50 acres of which are wood
land, well tifhb&rcd ; the remainder plough land
and watered meadow—of the latter, tuany more
acres can be mrtde at a finall expeuce. There arc
on said prcmifes, a good orchard of bell grafted
fruit, a fcoufe, with a spring near the door, a frame
barn with stabling uhder, and a log tencmant on
enepart of said place. Any person inclining
to purchase, may view the premises by applying
to Wm. Pennell, 00 said farm, and know the
terms hy applying to Jonathan I?ENNELL,in the
borough of Chester.
November 21. 3 C eB "
To be fold,
An F-LEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
story brick Hoyfe and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate 011 the Irish traS lane, in the
townfiiip of Moyamenfmg, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
ke made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia GSzette,
The improvements upon this place, for title and
elegance, Hand unrivalled.
December r. . .
All Perl'ons who are indebted to
the estate of William Hevsham, fvn. of Phila
delphia, deceased, ar« recuefted to make speedy
oaym nt; and thufe who have any demands a
gainst said estate, wiil pleafeto prefect them, pro
perly attfcfted, to the fubferibers.
William Hty(kam, 1
Robert Heyfham. V Executors.
Francis Bowes Sayre, J
novualfr 6. _ ±_ "w 4^
" LAW BOOKS, •
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P■ RICE, Eookfetiers,
No 16, South Second, and No 50, Market street,
H AVE just received by the late arrivals frpm
London and Dublin, their fl>ring importa
tion confiding of a variety of the latelt and mod
approved l aw Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the most e'xteulive colieiSionev
v erofferedfor fate in this country. They theiefore
bee leave to notice, that from the nature of their
conneSicnsin DuWitl, they are enabled to felllrilh
edition' (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowed prices. The following are among the latest
publications-
Vefe" i n I*l*3 in Chancery, 2 v^.s.
Peafee's'Cafes at Nisi
in the time of Lord Hsrdwrcks ; !■!«>>„_ s ,ol_ " s
. Pra&ice in the Eccfefiaftical Courts ;
Treatif« on a Suit in Equity; f'idd's of
the Court cis King's Bench in Personal Anions, 2
parts co.mplete ; Ward's Law of Tlations; Cruise
oil Ufos ; modern Reports, 11 vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rice fxpedl to receive by the firft ar
rival New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Purnford and East's Reports, the 2d part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June s6.
A person well acquainted with
thetheoi-yand -keeping;, whohasVeen
mariyyAc 11 inbufinefsforhiinffclf aTid,other. ,
would gl-ui to employeii, either a? an aif put [
or ;or in t poiiing bocks ; lt.it uniettied f 2
1 iccpunts ;or in executing any othe.- kind of wrL- tc
ing, 111 french or Eugliwi.
A note addrclTed to J. A. and left at th»fc office,
will b<£ i,uii3lnally atteuded to. aj
november 30. ,3 j
; —— I le
Thomas Randall,
PRESENTS his refpe sb to his Friends, and; the
Public in general, infor -em that he t<
anOflice, at bis house, No. 88, Spruce street, for c
the purpoie of i ran failing buf.nejs in the iine of j s
and Agency, rent? and out-
(landing claims in any part of the United States.— a
He flatters himfcif, that from his longrefidar.ee in
this countjy and a'general knowledge of it, his fer-
ciccs will be found worthy no ice of those who
may plaafe to corifide to hhn the T.a:ia§c.iient of
any of tr.eir concerns.
N* B. Security given where required. I
Hthmo24 fltawtf t
FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 75, South 1
j Watcr-ftrect,
A general affortmant of China
Ware c
Black and coloured sattir.s c
Do. do. Luteftrisgs c
Do. d». Handkerchiefs :
Do. do. fewiegjiilks J
Imperial and Hyfun Teas s
I.eng and ihort Nackeens t
Quicksilver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes
Assorted Glass Ware, in cases (
White and brown Havanna Sugars, in boxes
1 MolalTe', in hog(head>
St. Croix Rum and Sugar, in do.
London particular Madeira Wine
I Sherry and Malaga Wipc>, in qivartcr casks
R.ed, yellow and pale 12arks, in chcits
Logwood, &c. &c.
Ktv 7. —tu&f*w yOSEPH SIMS.
For Sale, by the Package,
For cash, or good notes at sixty or ninety days,
viz.
Book and J#conet Muslins plain
ft, i-.es, and Checks ' Assorted in
do. do. Tamboured j> k
do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & | " "
gentlemeß's neck do. J
Jaconet chintz muslin for home and the Weft
India market, Puilicote and linen hindkerchiefs,
for do. do printed do. do. \-oinrnon purple and
chintz (hawls.
The above gpods entitled to on ex
portation. Also a few scotch cambricks and an
afTortment of muflinbytht piece.
The whole of the above being a cpnfignment
from the manufa&urers ta Britain.
To be seen at William • Blackburn's
Office, I'lo. 64, South Second Street.
Nov. 6. lawtf.
NOTICE.
r T" , HE Stockholders of tbe Bank of the United
JL States, are informed tl>* according to tbe
statute of Incorporation a general Elei£lioi> for
five Diredlors will be held at the Bank
of the United States in the City of Philadelphia,
j on Monday the firtl day of January next at ten
o'clock in the lorenqon.
Ahd pursuant to tlie Eleventh fe&ion of the
Bye Laws the Stockholders of the said Bao|&
arc hertby notified to afiemble ip general Meet
ing, at the fame place on Tuesday the fjcond
day of January next at five o'clock in the E
veoing.
By order of the Board of dire&ors,
G. SIMPSON, Calluer.
Second fundamental Article.
Not mote than three fourths of tne Direflori
in office, exclusive of the President, be e
lsgihle for tbe next succeeding year, but the
Dirfflor who shall be President at the time of an
Eleftion may alwayjbe r^-ele<sled.
Philadelphia, nov. 18. 1797. 1 ftE
FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. ss, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Also, a general afTortment of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, coafifting of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and Urge wofk ; Bells, clotk and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, GlalTes, Punice Stone, Emery,
Kotttn Stone, Cat Gut; bench, (land and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals, Keys, &c. &c.
* # * Apprentices Wanted.
November fitutf
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
' THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol oflavo.
By William Young, Bookseller,
No. 52, Second street, the corner of Chefnut ilreet,
f Price y in boards, 87 I % Cents)
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
I A VIEW
f Of the Science of Life ;
j , On the principles eftablifaed in th« elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M.D.
- With an attesript to correft some important er
' rors of that work, and in iiluflratlon, chief
- ly feleiSed from the records of their pradlice, at
' tbe General Hospital at Calcutta,
I Br JVILLIA'M 7~AT9? £3* Ch.is. M\ciqan,
To which is fubjwined, a Treatise on the aflion
of ( Mercury upon living bodies, audits applica
, tion i'orthe of diseases of indiredl debility
Andadifiertatton en the fouro'.s of Epidrmicand.
Peftilentialdifsafes; inwhichisattemptedtoprove
- by a numerous induflion of faifts, that they ne
ver arilp from contagion, but arc always produ
ced by certain flatcs, or certain vicißiiudes ot
the atmofp!iere, by Charlks of
Calcutta t
•> _nov. 2'i. §iil
l This Day is Publiftied,
I BY MeiT. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric and the
other Bookleflcrs,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
e Elegant y printed on IV-we paper, and Hot•
' prejfed,
II By John Thompson,
X A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
'■ Of the several S«at<s with each other., and with
' that of rhe Unifed States: exhibiting in Tal'let,
s the prominent features of caeh Conftitutioti, and
s chflipg together, their most impsrtant provisions
( -ider the several heads of admieiftration ; with
V nd Ohfervations.
, WILLIAM SMITH,
J ' Carolina,
V *■ ' the Congress of the
L L. D. and iflfmbcr u*
United St;*'!*. "'rired State#.
Dedicated to tha People ol the <v '-rior pa-
N. 8. 1 A feiv Copies printed on an
per, at ?-4thfiof a dollar.
February 6
x Englhli Grammar,
The Jecovd edition, with improvements'* f
A DAP I'ED to the different daiTcs of leariurs; :
with an appendix, containing ruits and ol>- {■
TervatioT.s for allifticg the more advanced (Indents
to write with perspicuity and accuracy,
Bv LINDLEY MURRAY. Pr
" This is a publication of much merit, and fujly
answers thst proieTßtotm ip the Title. 'I he appen- c j,
dix contains Come of the heft rules for writing e
legantly, and with propriety, that we recollect to
havefeen." .
Monthly Review, July 1796. m
If This Grammar is on many accounts entitled
to commendatory oot'te, its materials have been
carefully and jiidieioufly fele&ed ; its arrangement at
is diftin<2 and well adapted to the purpose o( in- °'
firu&ion and its ejprcfllps i» simple, perspicuous
and accurate, fie,."
iVv tie character at lurge in the Analytical
Review, y.*<> 1 T)'J
Euglifh Exercises,
Adapted to U>£ Grammar lately puhliihcd by
LindlcT Murray, confining of exemplification of
the parts of speech, inltancesof falfe orthography, C
violatiorrsof the rules of fyn:ax, defeils in punc- k ~
tuatioa, and violations of t£e tule\ T-efpedlmg H
perspicuity and accuracy, dtfigned trr the benefit 01
of private learnn s, as well as tor the ule of fchooU. ft
"W« luve been nuicii pleased with the perusal p
of these Exercises. They accapy with diftinguilh- n
f d«.'xcellcr,ce a tnoft important place in the science
of the Engliih language; and as such, we con
warmly recommend theiu to the Teachers of*
Schools, as well as to all those who are desirous of
attaining corre&nefs and preciflon in their native
tongue."
Monthly Review, fnly 1797. ''
The above Books ar* for sale at Joseph & James m
Cki'kshaj.ks book (lore, No. 87, Market ftrect, ft
December I. 3tawaw.
N O T ICE. °
A |iL persons concerned are hereby notified, r
jTi. that the fiihfcriber intends to apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates 6f
Stoclt in the Bank of the United' States—He for*
warded them under cover of a letter addr«(TeJ to '
John Anilcy,of London, by the fh'p Bacchus, capt.
George, which left this port in June lattfor Lon
don. But that (hip having been captured 011 her
pafiage and fcnTto France, the above tetter and in- 1
closures have failed in their defamation.
Three certificates, viz- _ , .
Nos. 26325, 26326, '26327, each for J
four (hares, dated January id, 1797»
ifiued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Great Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
I Hovertfier 8. aaw6w
to Hire l
AT arge and convenient riOUSE, iti or near , .
the centre of the city—for which a generous !
rent wW be given ; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer.
oa. 17. , eotf
A Compting House to let.
AMoft convenient Coming House is now for
hire on Rofs's wharf, directly over the arch.
For terms, apply to '
Samuel Bred, jun.
No. 89, south Third street.
Where may be had,
A few balls of Raveus Duck, and about »oo '
pieces of (lout CailvaCi; a small quantity of Mace,
an 4 loiuc high proof Brandy ; Sherry Wine.Cho
colae in Window Glass of various sizes
and dimenfiijns. Dec. —eo6t
Samuel & Miers Fifhtr,
ARE NOW OPEKINU,
thfir Yfarehoufc, No. 27.Deck Street. a frefh
of Woolen and other goods, luitablc to.
the fc.ifon, ceccived by the U{e arrival! £rom Eng
land.
The* have also fir Sate,
Liibon • .
P e »> hllds - and <l uartcr c, ' k V
Port Wines, J
A/sorted queen's ware in crates, &c.
loth mo- 13d. _ diwjt»w3w.
James C. & Samuel W. Fisher,
AT THE'R STOAE,
No. 13, corner of Arch and Front ftrcets,
HAVE FOR S'AlEy
Cotton and worsted Hosiery in trunks, aflorted
» A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto futt romall Handkerchi«is
' Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
' Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafd ditto
• Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Tafft tics
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few chests befl Hyson T«a
Alfo —1500 box-s bed London Window Glass,
I from Bby6,to 19 by 14 — a " d l S hh( * B - G^a^B
aflorted, which they will dispose of che»iper
than any in the city.
nov?cmber aB. • flawtf
• Imported (via New York) on the
(hip Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
> sale by the fubferiber, at No. 61, Chefnut flreet,
between Second and Third Streets, the folVow
-1 iug articles . «
Maharagonges Charconna Doren^
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked muslins
Gillis Romals Bandannovd
Nilla9 & Penliafoes Chafla Romali
3 Blue cloth llair ribbon
MullMullhankerchiefs Palempores
Patoa do, Banares Opium
Lefler Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
t novembcr 27 tuth»4w
' » "
FOR SALE, Br
„ Joseph Anthony y Co.
No. 5, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Otandy, ift and id
| proof, just landed
e * 250 bales of Bourboif cotton of a superior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepp** iw bales
p Bourbon Indigo of the frrft quality
High proof Jamaica lpirits
Old London particular Madeira wine / In pipes &
do. market do iqr. oalks.
New England r.um in
, c Genuine Holland Gtw in pipes
Claret in caf s
Sp candles and ftrain'd oil
f. Prime Boston beef
Choice Halifax .Salmon in barrels and half barrels
Do. Herring in do do
Befi Bolton IVtackarel in barrels ol the fall fare.
New-England t 'W l : «an
A few tons of Russia cordage
Ruifia father beds
Clover and Timothy feed in jalks
Long whale-bone
No 1, 2, and 3, Bodon fail duck
A few Aefts firft qu Jity Hyson tea
Carolina rice in vM and half tierce and
An invoice cis Dutch holiow/glafs ware.
N,.vetaber 8. d2 w .
, e 400,000 weight of choice St. Do
mingo COFFEE,
FOR S.*4,E BY
JAMES YARD.
novembcr iz. diot
For Sale, BJ
Th(]t wellhno ivn place, called P"and£Gßift's t
FIRRY,
ON Nefhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phila
ladelphia, on the New Yov(i port road, j,
containing 74 acres and 94perdifes. Upon the
pre miles are a large two story (lone houle occu- Col
pied as a tvern, and a good one story ftoji,e kit
chen, a large frame stable with agpod
floor, and l'oipe out huik'.ipgs—»lfo a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On r®
this place is a moll elegant situation fora gentle
nun ! ftit, commanding a view of the Nefhara
iny to its junilion wiih the Delaware, and thence Qu
acrols to the Jerlly (hore. h lusthe privilege Gu
of one half the toll received from the bridge. p; f
For terms apply to the SfWcribtr, g a ]
MORPECAI LEWIS, Gi]
Way 24. , s m<
Far sale or to be let on ground
rent, V ,
A»palual>te Lot of Ground ;
SI ITU ATE on the north-eift corner of Wal-;
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half 011 Fifth street ; there are at
present two l'mall two story brick houl'es, and a
number of fm»ll tenements thereon. "
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient (lores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-llreet, between Mulberry and SafTafra-s p
streets, containing in front on Water street fjf
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth taft
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
ave the convenisnce of a public alley adjoiliing
on the north fide, and are a very desirable filia
tion for a merchant, flour fa<Sor,or otljers who Fl
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable forms
forcafh. For further information apply to the
printer.
July 3 r. m&wtf
Jujl Publijhed,
And to be had of Messrs. Doifon, Camobell.Rice, ~
Cary, nd the other pricipal BookfcUers in tHe ,
city,price, one dollar, twinty-five cents,in boards, i
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. 0.
' June 10. *6t
School Books and Stationary, j
W. YOUN G,
No. O, Sccpnd-ftfcef, com«r of Cbefnyt-ftreet,
HAS bow ready for sale, a very large assort
ment of tnglt/b, French, Latin and Grefl
SCHOOL BOOKS. Atfi, such elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY nJ!>LH«Et>,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo. price 3 dots.
Ditto, large 11 mo price 1 dol. 75 «rs. ,
Ditte, common,, price I d«l. 59 ft*.
All fijrts of drawing, packing,,printing, and
writing Paper j Bookbinder's Paftebonrds, 1
flieathrag and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
1 1 blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, of .
. the belt quality, used in tfcc counting house, or ]
public office.
£•? Catalogues of a mifcellaneouj of
BOOKS, with the price of each to be had 1
by inquiring a-i abbve. 0(2. 44. —3awew
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
This Stage starts laom the GEORGE Tavern, ]
at the corner o( Second and Arch Streets, in ,
- Philadelphia, cvtiy Tuesday, Tturfdfyl, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the n orning ; arrives at lki
,ver the firft day, at Snowbill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and 00
the morning of the fourth day the palfengcrs find
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton fetry,
every Tucfd'.y, Thursday and Saturday, and the
Stige starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
> MonVay, Wcdnefday and Friday; puts up at Snow
Hill the firft night, at Dover the id night,and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening -ot the third
day.
J The distance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles less than on any fuge route
between those places
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engige to return the whole f:ire to any
paifenger, who, after having performed this route,
will-fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a-road in America.
Sj Anguft 11. dim, eotf.
) City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lattery, No. IP,
™ For the Improvement of the bedetal City.
r Amagnificentdwellitig-houfe 40,000 dollars,
'■ & ca(h 3.0,000, are 50,000
1 ditto 15,000 k cast 15,000 40,091?
1 ditto 15,000 it calh 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & ca(b 10,000 'aojooo
1 ditto 5,000 & ca!h 5,000 - io,ono
j ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 to.doo
1 cash prize of 10,000
1 do. 5,000 each,are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - " 10,00 c
ao do. 5.00 - - 10, OP"
00 do. " 10,000
ISo do. 5° "
40P do. IS " " »o,o°o,
1,000 doj ao " 30,000
15,000 do. 10 - 159,000
i6iW9 Prizes,.
;d 33,161 Blanks.
y '50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavaur thofowho may take a quan
tity of Tickcts.the prise of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but one : . ..
And approvednotes, securing payment in cither
money or prizes, in ten days after drawing, wdl
be received foi any number not less than 30 tick
sts
This Lottery will afford an eltgfnt fpccimen ol
the private buildings to bc in the City of
Wafhinrtort—Two beautiful defigiis are already
Is icleAed ior the entire Ironts on two of the public
fquare 1 ; from these drawings it ispropofcd to ere#
twocentreaud f ourcoi'Meir buildings.as aspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to conyey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, n
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
I.ottery. A nett deduction of fiv£ per cent, will
be made to defray the naceffary expcitfes of print
iftfj Scr. and thfi I jrplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for Wie NjitiMin,} Umved%, to
be creeled within the city of \v afliington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the navmeat of the
prizes, are held by the Prefidcnt and two Dir.-a
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
0- more than half the amount ot thclottery.
SAMUEL IiLODQET.
Tieketsmay he had at the Bank ot Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Fettr
Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins; Richmond
and of Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry. rnvvf
FOR SALE,
b* the subscrib«rs, No. 2J, Pinr.-!*reet,
Ihe Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
Jolin Green, commander, fiom Bengal,
■Celling of
Baftas, of various qualities Sc prices
Colues punjum Cloths
Sanahs Guzz y do.
Humliums Charconna Dore*
Blus Cloth Tajijibs
Chintz and Ca'.icsea MulmuU
Mamoodys Checks
Mahattigor.ges Patsa Hhkfs.
Ginghams Mulmui Jo.
Guzzenas Bandannoes
Gurrahs Silkrfojr
Piniafcois Choppa RomaU
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romal? Perfiansof variouscolours
Mock Pulicats
f zco tons SUGAR
90,000 lb- PEPPER.
Wi I lings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges arc now open and exposed to fade it
that commodious (lore the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth flreet. no>v. to.
LANDING,
From on board the fliip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander* fr«?m Londqii,
60 teas as she best clean Russia
HEMP
6o casks of bottled BRO\VN STQUT. •
For Sale by the fobferibers, No- U > Fenn-ftreet.
Willings & Francis.
Odl. 31. <f
Just arrived, v
From Port-au-Prince, and? for Sale by the fiAfcrf- -
bers, No. »i, Penn-ftreet,
642 hogfticadi,"}
8i ttercea f Prime Coffee
513 barrel) f
646 b3gs j
Willings Sff Frauds.
oa. »g. , >■
FOR SALE—by the Subscribers,
An elegant afl'ortment of Madrafs
HANDKERCHIEFS, by the hale.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS,
nov. 21. § Penn-flrcet.
~ FOR SALE,
BT THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, fir ft quality, in ~
P'P"
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pipes
Lisbon WINE, in pipes
"fife lateil importation, in boxes
Spanish Wool, in Bales, suitable for Hatters.
Willings & Francis+ *
Pcnn-ftrect| No. ai»
Nov. 1. t , w&stf
A Journeyman Hair-Drefler,
WHO ie saber and llea<iy, and under {lands
his business, may have immediate em
ployment, on Application to GEORGE AB
BOTT, No. 9, ho v. yj.
f tod 1 w.
' Imported intheIbipxWANCHESTER,
f Benjamiij Shewell, Mailer,
j From Bourdcaux, and for (ale by the fobferiber,
Nq. 11 Walnut Swot.
Botjrdeayx Brandy "1
Irish market claret in cafe? ( Entitled to
. Medoc wine, in do. fc Drawback.
' Sauteroe, do. 4°< J
Thomas Murgatreyd.
t WHO HAS FOR SALE. ,
3 Sherry Wine in pipes and quart* casks
1 Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
r, 4000 bushels Liverpool fait,
e 24. tut&stf.
Peale's Museum,
THIS valuable repoficory of the works of Na
ture, so well calculated to deljght the mind
" and enlarge the oneerdanding, is opened daily, as s
usual. It ltands in an airy and healthy situation,
j an d fj-ce from the epidemic that at prcfent afllicls
rs the city; it may, therefore, be frequented -with
v the greeted falety.
I As an Aiuufement, the study of Nature 1; the
ie ' most rational and plealing : as a Science, the mod
- sublime and inflrudive. It elevates the mind and
expands the heart. They
" Hold iOn%rrfc"
Many interfiling additions have lately been
made to this MulcUm : aijd the feathered tribe,
containing a variety of the mod rare and beautiful
l'ubjefts, is now very advantageously arranged.
W»xen of Men large as lift? (some of them
s, cads from nature) are here drefled in their proper
}(j habits, and placed in attitudes charaderiiftic of their
)v refpeflire nations. Here may be fete the Nortp
-30 American Savage, and the Savage of South-Ameri
go ca a laboring Chinese, and the Chinese Geutle
io man—tie sooty African, and the Kwtlthadak —
30 vyith fime Natives of the South Sea Iflapds. The
;0 immense variety and intereding diversity which
uo thi* Museum offers to the view, may bel'eenbut
c cannot be described with full efftil.
gjp Price qnly I-4th q! a dollar.
Q ° he.yt. 28. "W
30 1
00 Davis's Law Book Store,
00* No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
B£ING busied for some time pad in prepara
tions for removing iqto his prijl.em house, hf.s
been under thentxeflity of poftponinguntil thi da")'
"" informing the gcmlcumn ofthe Bar getieraljy thro*
00 the limited States, that hisfpritig importation of
~ law books is now arranged and ready for lale, on
u " terrusthat he trusts will entitle him <0 thaliki pre
'>e free nee he has for leveral years past.
s r Catalogues, oombining the mod \arieu collec
lion ever imported i<it») this country,.are printed
,er and will be delivered on application;
June 27.
:k- 1
a , Boston Glass Manufa£lory.
0 f citizens of the United States ate hereby
dv A informed, that the lu-nufailure of Window
lit Giafs is now coainieneud at the Glass Houf« iu Boi.
ect ton.
o f. It is needless to fay any "thing of the excellent
, m quality of the Bolton Glass, as it is io well known
u' throughout the United States to be in every relpeit
itel greatly superior to any ever imported fraw Europe,
cill It will be cut to any lire comniQ'nly used ; and
nt - may be constantly had by applying to Charles F,
0 f ICupfen, at the Glass House.
to Orders fr.om the distant States to be addressed to
Mr. Samuel Gore, .Court-street, Bolton,
he Bolton, Sept' '30,1797 O 4 —lawiw
frlfjfi-s. Tirrotby and Majon, Charlejhju ; Mrjfrs.
| 3C /tjdoc and 2}cyta>/ % Halifax, N. C. Ivlejfrs. W'illrlt
itrd o'Conner, Norfolk ; Mr. Ellis Prise, Alexandria ;
' JVleJj'rs. Yundt and Brotun, Baltimore; JMr. Hopkins,
|m . NewrXork ; and Hudson iff Goodwin, Hert
ttr ford 1 Mr. Stynour, Havtrnah j are reqvefed to irfjri
. the ahve once a iveek 6 n cdi. Tbs ■ accounts to le jov
,w f wardcd to the Editor.