#ayxitoftbe Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Nombex 1475.J
For Sale or Charter,
, """ THS SHIP
WARREN,
Benjamin Church, Mafler.
2^, OF about 180 to»s burthen. En
quire of
Jeffe & Robert Wain-
May 26 - j
For Freight or Charter,
To any part of Europe,
7'be Swedi/h Ship
Alexander Magnus,
Capt, Carl O. Ehsman,
ABOUT 3JO tons burthen, in this port ; and
also the Oanilh Ship FREDERICK JUUUS
XAUS, of 450 tons,now lying in Hampton Koads.
Apply to JOHN VAUGH * N.
Ma y 2<5- tuthf6t
JohnTarris, marter.
A ORE AT part of her cargo it engaged, and
Ihe will fail in ten days. For freight or pal
fage apply to capt. Tarrii, at Willings & Francis'
wharf, or to GURNET & SMITH.
May 25 §
For London,
THE auip
jpljl WILLIAM PENN,
Jams 'Josiab, Majler.
WILL fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or paflage apply to
Jeffe Robert Wain.
£s* The owners of Goods in the Ihip William
Penn, arerequefted to fend their permits on board
a* soon as poifibi®.
May 19 §
For Sale,
7he cargo of the brig Enterprise, Captain
Langdon from Bourdeaux, now landing at
Morton's -wharf,
consiting or
524 hhds. of Claret 2 .
317 cases of ditto -a "u
xoo cases of Sweet Oil •-3 -3
XI o pipes London proof ) 5 2
10 pipes of Holland proof 3 W -a
Apply to
Wharton & Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
Said Brig,
WILL take a FREIGHT for
the Weft-Indies or Europe, fajls
ffi. faft. burthen about fifteen hun
-tf?dred barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply as above.
May 24
Loft—A Gold Bracelet,
Marked S. H. with a double Chain. Any
person who may hive found it, and will return
it at No. 47, Penn-ftreet, will be handsomely
rewarded.
May 27. dtf
The Subscriber,
Determined to retire from bu&nefs, invites all
■who have any note, bill, bond or acceptance
of his, now due, to call for payment ; and those
who wilh to anticipate may receive the money
at a reasonable difcouut.
JAMES SWAN.
May 12. d2w.
Dorcheller, ncarßoftoA, 16th May 1797.
Pennfy lvaniaPopulation Company.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Share Hold
ers, that a further, afleflment of nine dol
lar s is levied oa each {hare, payable as follows,
viz.
Six Dollars immediately, and
Three Dollars on the ift of July next.
Which they are requested to pay ta the Treafu- |
rer of the Company, at the Company's Office,
No. S3> North Fourth-street, agreeably to the I
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed, that on their neglefting to pay the
lime as above diredted, the fevtral forfeitures
will be exa&ed.
By order of the Board, ■»
SOL. MAKACHE, Treasurer.
May 17. d3ot
To Let,
And pojfejfion given in two -Weeks, '
A good 3 story Brick House, c
With back buildings—No. 43, Spruce-ftre«t.
Apply at No. 109 Spruce-street.
May >6 §6t
JOHN CRAIG
HAS just imported from Rotterdam, via St.
Tho mac, and for sale on reasonable terms
by Repackage,
Platillas Royal
Haerlem and German linens
Rouens
Post artd ProPatria Paper
Wafers
Quills
Oziers for Hoops, in Bundle)
Coflee Bags
He has also for Sale,
Bed Red Clover Seed
Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use
Teneriffe Wine of firft and second Quality
Coffee in Bags and Hogflieads
Jamaica Spirits
Connecticut Turpentine Soap
Window Glass
Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Cotton
Hosiery
April 18. 4a w
Received by the Indoftan,
From Madras,
A SMALL invoiceconfifting or"the following
Coast Goods, viz.
Blue Cloths
Long Cloths, 14 punjum)
Do. do. firie
Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and y
Book Muilins
WILLING tf FRANCIS.
March 27. 3aw.
PIIIL A DEL PHI A : WEDNESDAY EVENING, MAT 3 i, 1797.
To be Sold, at Public Vendue,
At the Merchants' Cijffce' house, in Philadelphia,
on the 15th day of June, at 8 o'clock in the
evening, if not before dilpofcd of at private
sale,
40193 1 I * 2 acres of land, on the
waters of Wheeling and Filhing creeks, in Walk
ington county, Pennsylvania. The foil is remark
ably ferule ; and Hefides 1 large body of meadow,
there are considerable improvements on the pre'
mifes. These landi were patented in 1787. On
payment of part of the purchase money, a r-afon
abl# credit will be given for the residue. Enquire
of the printer.
way ij. tS
d s The Commissioners
I; TT OR carrying intu effedl the TWENTY-FIRST
, Art \ c ' c l h e Treaty of Friendship, Limits,
and Navigation, between His Catholic Majesty
ana the United States of America, hereby give in
formation to all Persons therein concerned, That,
in order te terminate all d (Terences, on account of
the losses sustained by the itizens of the United
, Sute »- coofequence of their Vessels and Car
goes having b'-t.n taken by the Subje&sof His Cath
a ol.c Majesty, during the 'ate. War between Spain
and France, that they are ready to receive (at their
, Office, between the hours of ten and one o'clock,
daily) all complaints and applications, authorized
by the said Article, during Eighteen Months
lrom the day of the date hereof, and that they have
power to examine all such persons as some before
them, on oath or affirmation, touching the com
plaints in question, and also to receive in evidence,
I wr '«<-» teftimory, authenticated in such man
ner as they Ihail think proper tO' require or admit.
By Order of the Comm'fjioners,
PETER LOHRA,
Secretary.
C mmijft oners Office* ho. 109, Mulberry
t reet, Philadelphia) May l~tb, 1797.
I 20—$4W
Just received,
And for sale by Ifane Harvey, juri. No. e. South
Watcr-ltreet,
A parcel of prime Rice; also,
Trinidad and Cayenne Cotton
Coffee in Barrels and Bag*
Spanilh Hides and Beef.
4th mo. 15, 1797.
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turn
pike Company.
A meeting of the Stockholders of the Phila
delphia and Lancaster Turnpike Company, will
be heM at the Company's Offiee, on Monday,
10 o'clock, the nthjune next.
WILLIAM GOVETT, Sec'ry.
Miy it. fr 4W .
NOW LANDING,
From on board of the Ihip GEORGE BAR
CLAY, Capt. Charles M'Alesteb, from
Calcutta, the following GOODS, viz.
CofTas Punjum Cloths
Hummums Gurrahs
Guzeenahs India Calicoes
Emerties Cotton Checks
Ma moo dies Mulmule
Sahans Red and Blue Bernagou
hkfs
Tickeries Patna do.
Jellas Santipotte do.
Carridarries Plain. striped and flower
ed fine muilins
Maragunges -Ginghams
Baftas, various forts Taffeties
Sattln Ro.mals Bandanno red hks.
ALSO,
300 Calks Sugar
40 Boxes do. '
165 B3g» do.
70,00 a lb. weight heavy black Pepper I
40,000 lb. weight Ginger
20 Tons Hemp in Bales
9 Pipes Kail-India Spirits
For sale by PHILIPS, CRAMOND &?Co.
May 4. dtf
For Sale,
ON board the Ihip Molls', John Frost, matter
(ram Liverpool, laying at Walnut-street wharf
6000 bushels of fine ftoved Salt,
And QUtEN'S WARE, well assorted,
By PHILIP NICKLIN y Co,
WHO HAYR IN STORE, ALSO FOR SALE,
100 Boxes WhiteHavann* Sugars A
Imperial and ) T
Hyson ) '
17 tubs Q.uickfilver a
a cherts Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chests Manchester Goods well aflorted
in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, muflinets,
dimities, &c. a Trunks black sewing silk,'
180 Crates queens ware, well alTorted,
10 Tons Iheet lead,
Nails aflorted, flat and sharp points, n
London particular a'nd } Madeira Wine in
India market J pipes and hhds. r<
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Teneriffe Wine, at
10 pipes choice Port ditto, c
31 calks yellow paint,
7 boxes iz bundles writing (lates,
1 box ink-flands & note prefles,
Sail canvas aflorted No. lag.
May 4. dtf
_ "
Rofs & Simfon,
Have for Sale,
A QUANTITY OF PRIME
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lilbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Calks ■ — l
Afew Quarter Chests best
H"£±r d i
Muscovado Sugars in Hogfliead), and
Coflee in Tierces o.
March 7. || tf Al
Erfkine's View of the War. in
JUST PUBLISHED, V,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co. Cs
No 40 South Second street, '- 1
[Price 31 Cents] Si!
A View of the Cau/es and Confequen-
ces of the present War with France. Pcp c
By the Honorable Thomas Ekskine.
May 1 s f
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Cbefnut Street.
Millinery Room,
he A'o. 136 Markit-Jlreet.
te
MISS CHKXSTAL
e '"TA KES an early opportunity as acquainting
h- TO Friends that Ihe. has received by the
k- T,i^n AM PsN ' , • a V3rie, y °f NEW MH--
w t-INERV, &c. which flie hopes to be able to
e '"ew them in a few days.
>n Ma X # 3 ot
Now Landing,
\At Pratt's nvharff
FROM on board the Ihip Thomas Chrikley,
Capt. Rafer, from Bourdeaux,
in calks
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
J Red Skins in boxes
t For Sale by
>f . Rundle & Leech.
d May if f
' n - Printed Calicoes.
ir JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Chefnut-Street,
J Have for Sale
s, FIFTY TRUNKS neatly aflorted, very low on
e Hiort credit,
e March 6.
•• Advertisement.
PURSUANT ia an Order from the Orphans' Court,
iv:ll be fold at PUBLIC SALH t at Cranberry, on
WeJnfda*, the 14tb day of June next, all that valuable
REAL JSSTA TH y late belonging to the Rev. Gilbert
T. Snoioden, decezftd, lying in and near Cranberry, in
the county of Middlesex, totvnjhip of South Brunfzuicl,
(late of New Jersey, upon the lower flage road leading
from Philadelphia to New York. A very elegant frame
house in a beautiful and healthy fituation t pair, ted white,
with Venetian window flutters, thirty feet front and
1 thirty eight feet deep, two rooms with a handsome hall or
entry on the firjl floor, three tooms on the second floor and
two wcll~fnijbedgarrets. In the rear of the house is an
excellent two-Jlory building confiding nf a dining-room fur
work people, spacious pantries and a large \iitchen, with
every convenience, aitd over these are three chambers for
servants. ¥0 the right is an additional building conftfiing
of a chamber below and a library above—under the whole 1
. are very fine cellars paved with brick. The house is en- I
tirely new and finifbed with tajle'. Every room is bung \
with bells that lead both to the kitchen and the fervunts* I
apartments : there is a pump in the yard; and a flone
• and brick pavement round the whole house, which is enclof
\ ed with a handsome railing, with three gates in front, j
\ The farm confijis of one hundred and ftxty seven acres, {
with a proportion of woodland and meadow, under excel
lertt fence ; a garden with pale fence; a large barn, Jla- .
bles, carriage-house, cowboufes, tlfc. all neiu, and built
in the befl manner : with a young orcjiojcd-qf 100 grafted
trees. Nearly adjoining said farm is a lot of Woodland
of thebejl quality, containing 37 acres. Also a tra6J of
land within seven miles of Cranberry, containing one hun
dred and ffty acres, three-fourths meadow and the reß ex
cellent timber. Ihis will be fold in lots or together, as
taill bejl suit the pur chafers.
The payments, one third cafb-—one third in one
and the remaining third, one year following, with intereH *
on the tivo lafipayments, and approved feeurity.
For further particulars enquire of Nathaniel Hunt, 4
Efq.or Dr. Ralph Lott, Cranberry; of Isaac Snowden,
at Pnne*on ;or of Isaac Snowden, Jun. N South
Second flreet, Philadelphia. J
May 15 §(jmivftS y
Richard Bay ley & Co. I
Late John Whitesides & Co. 1
No. 136 Market-Jlreet,
HAVE received per the ships William Penn and
Star from a large and fashionable as-
fortment of the following articles : viz.
Chintzes, and printed Cottons, of the newest
patterns
Furniture Dimities and Chintzes
Ginghams, plain and figured,
Muslins, printed and embroider*d
Do. tamhour'd, plain, check and ftrip'd
Do tamboured, of a very superior quality --
Fine Book, Jaconet and Decca Handkerchiefs I
Dimities and mullinets
Damalk table-linen, in setts and in the piece n
Diaper ditto in Cloths and in ditto
Holland and Russia Sheetings
Loop'd Hollands and Irish Linens ?
Long Lawns and Cambrics '
Sattins and Silks, plain and figured I
Ribbons and Gloves
Crapes and Gauzes g
Straw, Chip, and Paper Hats and Bonnets, new
ihapes
Fancy trimmings, &c.
With a variety of articles in the Lin«n-Drapery v
and Haberdaflaery line.
May 22 s*ot
Poft-Office, 23d May, 1797.
THE Mail for Baltimore will be ciofed at this of
fice every morning (Sundays excepted) at half past 7
o'clock. e j
The Mail for Boston will be ciofed every day te
(Sundays excepted) at 12 o'clock noon ; and
The Mail for Frederica, Milford, Clowes, Dagfbo- ei
rough, Delaware, Horntown, Accomack Court-House q
and Northampton Court-Houte, Virginia, will be
ciofed every Monday morning at half past 7 o'clock. .
May 23. *i«t
JuJl Imported, f«
IN the (hip Woodrop Sims,' Capt. Hodgfon,
from Canton, ami for sale by the Subfcrib- Ie
er, at Mrs. Kinfffy's, corner of Second and ™
Pine-street,
Hyson
Hyson Skin YTeas all frelh and of m
Young Hyson and C excellent quality.
Gunpowder j
Also,
Afew Nankeens.
C.HAIGHT. T
Aprit 17 dtf 1
——————— m
, Just Arrived, an
In the feliooner Dove, Captain Paul, from St er
Thomas, and tor sale by the fubferiber. 0 f
Muscovado Sugar in hhds- tierces and barrels. an
St. Croix Rum in hhda. l w
AHd Laguira hides. hit
ALSO ON HAND, j u(
Imperial, Hyson, and Sherry and Malaga ed
Hyson Skin Teas. Wine). m<
Yellow Nankeen). Holland Gin in pipes, tw
Canton Cloth. Do. Cheese.
Lutestrings. Do. Glass ware.
Silk Hankerchiefs. China Ware. tur
dewing Silk. Window Blinds. dif
Cotton in bales. Rhetibarb. rea
Peruvian' Bark. Quickfilvtr, &c.
JOSEPH SIMS. «
May «d. dl4t. 1
Canal Lottery,
No. 11.
Scheme.of a Lottery,
Ai*horized by an aft, entitled, " an aft to
the *n»hle the President anil Managers of the
»L_ Schuylkill and Sttfquchannah navigation, to
to raise, by way of Lottery, the sum of Four
Hundred Thousand Dollars, for the pu/pofe
of completing the works, in their aft» of
- incorporation mentioned."
Dollars
I Prize of twenty thousand dollars, io ( ooe
I of ten thousand dollars, io,cco
■y> J.. of four thousand dollars each, to
be paid to the poffeflbrs of the five
numbers firft out of the wheel on the
lift day's drawing, at which time there
shall not be less than 500 numbers un
drawn, 10,000
10 of two thousand dollars each, 10,000
ao of one thousand dollars each, ao,oco
43 of five hundred dollari each, 21,500
100 of one hundred dollars each, 10,000
Ho of fifty dollars each, u,oco
19500 of five dollars each, 147,500
30,000 Tickets at ten dollarteach. 300,000'
on ~
Six dollars for each ticket will only be de
manded at the time of fate
~~ All prizes (hall be paid ten days after the
drawing is finifhed, upon the demand of the
poficfior of a fortunate ticket, fubjedt to a de
duction of fifteen per cent.
■*, Such prizes as are not demanded within 11
months after the drawing is finifhed, of which
' le public notice will be given, shall be considered as
rt relinquilhed for the use of the Ganal and applied
accordingly.
"»
fe At a Meeting of the President and Mana
e, gers of the Schuylkill and Sufquehansa
"I Canal Navigation—and the President and
Managers of the Delaware and Schuylkill
' n Canal,
, r Resolved, That Joseph Ball, John Steinmetz,
Standifh Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Cr&a,
, r John Miller, jus. and William Montgomery,
s be a committee to arrange and diredl the mode
le of disposing of the tickets 1 which committee
- shall deposit this money in bank, to be carried
f to the credit of an aiccount to be opened for
>' the Lottery.
e .
Tickets at fix dollars each to be had of the
• managers, or at the canal office, near the bank
;> of the United States.
Philad. April 17, 1797. 21 w
1 Jonathan Harvey,
4 No. 106 SOUTH FRONT-STREET,
f HAS FOR SALE,
- A general assortment of Dry Goods
s —-Amongst which are—
A few boxes Irish Linens.
" nwfim
To be Sold,
. A three jlory brick House, with suitable back ■
' buildings; ]
Q" ITUATE in Vine-llrcet, No. 88, completely '
O finiflied, and free of ground-rent: It has a t
neat back yard, in which is a'ciftem, and new i
pump for rain water—commodious cellars are un- (
derneath the whole, in which is a dry well bricked 1
up. that will hold ice. This property is well cal t
culated for a boarding house. For particnlars ap- ,
ply at the preraifes. 1
Immediate poffeffics will be given, or so as to j
suit a purchaser. '
lawtf ,
Bush Hill.
Messrs. Bates and Darley, (
Of the NEW THEATRE,
D Efpeafully inform the citizens of Phils de'phia
IX. and its environs, th?t they have taken the
manor house and grounds of Buih Mill (the pro
perty of William Hamilton, Esq.) and are now
preparing to open them by Subscription, for the
general accommodaticn and amufemcnt of the pub
lic, under the name of the
PennfylvaniaGardensandHotel. *
Particularly during the Summer feafen, will be
given (three tiires per week) a
CONCERTS "
Of Vocal and Injlrumental Music, '■
After the manner of the Public Gardens Paris, P
Vauxhall, London, &c. &c. •'
The Entertainments for the enfning fummcr f«a- f f
son, positively to commence d
THE FIRST WEEK IN JUNE. °
TERMS Or SUBSCRIPTION. hi
One hundred Subscribers, at one hundred dollars
each. The money to be repaid the fubferibers at
ten annual payments of tefi dollars each. c<
And each fabferiber to hold a free ticket of pen
eral admiflion to all public performances in the
Gardens, for the term of ten summer seasons.
The tickets to bo made transferable at the option it
ef the fubferibers, by giving timely notice to the
Managers, previous to the commencement of 1
feafen, and having the fame registered accordingly. 01
Subscriptions received by Messrs. Bates and Dar- tr
ley at Bush Hill, where tickets for the season only,
may be had at twelve dollars each. y
N. B. Admittance to non-fubferibers on each
Concert Night, Half a Dollar.
Dtae notice will be given of the commence
ment. May 15 sv
Musical Injlrument Manufactory,
No. 167, Arch-Street.
HARPER, hajrpfichord, grand, portable grand,
fid>board, pier table and square pfar.o forte r<
mak-.r from London, returns thanks to his friends .
and the public, for their liberal encouragement, '*
aßd hopes that by his assiduity and attention to ev
ery branch of his business, to merit a continuance.
of their favors. Piano fortes made on the newest t0
and most approved plans, with pedals, patent, ' a
swell, and French harp flop, which heflatteis
himfelf will ue found on trial by unprejudiced f*'
judges, to be equal if not superior to auy import- foi
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inftru ati
m«nt purchased of him, if not approved of in ■ wi
twelve months, he will exchange.
N.B. All kinds of Musical instruments made,
tuned, and repatre« with tfcr greatest accuracy
dispatch, and on the most reafocable, terms, i u i
ready money only.
Second band Piano Fcrtes taken in exchange.
Mayae. ]
New Hat and Hosiery Store.
, , „ J "J 1 Imported,
In tie ft,f, William P*„ and Star, from Tanitn, mni
rtoiv opening by
»° WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
A T h " new Hat ,Ild Hosiery Store, #O. j 34
to /V Market ftrcet— . 34>
ur An elegant assortment of silk, eotton and thread
>fe Stoc * c ingg
, Silk, cotton and thread Gloves
Pantaloons, 3cc. &c.
Likewise, ahandfomc alTorßneht of men*?, wo
rs men s, and children's faftionable Hats, fuitabk fdi
d®. the Season.
=0 A confiderahle quantity of low and middle priefed
Hats aflorted in cafes,intended for counjrv iUres,
Ma X »* taw
To I>e fold cheap,
jo I~° dose an adventure,
■ 0 7 Balis Baftas
, Q 2 ditto Coflas
Apply at the Store of
>0 » Mordecai Lewis.
y 16
~ TO BE RENTED,
_ And may be entered upon at any time,
5- 'T'HATforciblejnd wellimprovedwateV works
X on Brandywme, three miles from the town
e of Wilmington, in the' Hate of Delaware ;
e consisting of
•- A large", convenient Slitting Mil!,
In complete order, having several pair of rcHs
* and cutters of every lize.
s A large, Stone Merchant Mill,
d Having three pair burr stones, boulting works,
com kiln and every other necelTafy apparatus.
A Saw Mill,
- In the best order, and a pair of timber wheels.
j A Smith's Shop and Tools.
1 To accommodate these works there is a large
1 commodious Aone dwelling house, kitchen and
wash house and a ntimber of dwelling houses
» a w ® r * l J len » gardens adjoining; two large
, stone ftablei, two stone coal houses, and a coop
, ® °P> w ' t^l mc adow and pasture grounds.
Ir the tenant chufes he may have the oppor
tunity te purch»fe ao excellent team of five hor
[ fes, waggon, coal carriages and bed, with a
. flock of coal in the coal houses fufficieilt t 9 ma
nufacture three hundred tons of iron.—Aodlv to
RUMFORD & ABIJAH DAWES,
No. 7, South Water-llreet.
• •
Laws of the U. S.
SWIFVs EDITION.
JuJl Publifhedy
out dollars, 3 vol. urao.
Sold by W. Young, Mills and Son, H. and
f. 1< ice, M.Carey, R. Campbell and Co.
Laws of the United States,
From the commencement of the Federal Govern
ment to the end of the lafl Sefjion of Con
grefj, 'which terminated Mirch 3, 1797.
1 H' S edition, published under an order of
x Congress of the United States, has manv
peculiar advantages. In the former one, each
volume had a separate index, whieh rendered
the reference in all cases, difficult and trouble
lome, and in many almost impossible. The in
dexes were, moreover, very injudiciously com
piled On the contrary, in the present edition,
there is one copious, luminous index, com
piled by Zephamah Swift, Esq. referring to
a 1 the volumes, and comprising in itftlf a com
plete digest of all the laws of the United States.
Valuable Lands, Mills,
&c. in Georgia.
On Saturday, the first day of July
next, at 7 o,clock in the evening, at the Cof
fee-houfe in Philadelphia, will he fold by
estates CrCdit ' the followin S
In ihe State of Georgia.
No' I. x
A CERTAIN -TRACT OF LAND, conj
J- X taming 100,697 i-» acres, fitnate in the
county of Montgomery, formerly the county of
Waihington, on the east fide of Ohoory river
and the waters of the Altamaha, and about one
mile above the mouth of Pendleton's creek, and
in the neighbourhood of Mill creek. The im
provements on this trail of land, confiding of
the most complete Grift and Saw Mills in the
southern country, having cost at least 20,000
dollars with.n these two years. The timber is
of the finelt quality, and the quantity'is not to
be exhaufled.
2.
A „traft of very valuable land in Franklin
county, lying on the waters of Oconee, con
taming about 75,000 acrs.
3.
A trail adjoining or near to No. 2, contain
ing about 25,000 acres.
Two millions and five;hundred thonfand aeren
land, being an vndivided part of all that
tracl c* valuable country, including islands, fi
liated on the Mobile Bay, Albahama, Tool
B'gby, and MilTifippi Rivers, which was grant
ed by the State-os Georgia to James Gutm, and
others, by the name of " The Georgia Cornea
ny", in fee. t
S'
Thirty (bares in the TennefTee Company,
each iharc being about ro,ooo acres, or one four
hundredth and twentieth part of the said Ten
nefiee Company's purchase, being so much of
the trait of country, granted by the "State of
Georgia to Matthias Maher and Zachariah Cox,
in fee.
O" This piece of property miv, in the op
tion of thepurchafer, or his assigns, be offered
to Zachariah Cox, forthefum of l75,ooodo!-
lars, intwo years the jift March iri/6,
who is obliged by bis special bond, to take the
fame, if offered to him, at. that tune, and pay
for the fame, within fix month* after the expir
ation of the said twe years. This bond U fold
with tne land.
By order of
Henry Pratt, _
T. IK Francis, I
John Miller, jun. I ~ °f
John A/bley % \ J am " Grttnlcaf.
Jacob Baker, -J
En ward Fox, Auctioneer.
Miy is mwftS
[VcLUMR XI.gazette marine list.
PokT of P HILAbELtHIA.
ARRIVED. days.
Ship General Wathington,Moore, Cadiz 42
Brig American, Town, Port de Prix 14
Patty, Coffin, ' Bolton 8
Schr. Dolphin, Tice, Alexandria 8
Fair American, Logan, Virgininia 3
Charles, Gladden, Rhode Island 5
John, Pease, North Carolina 8
Sloop Patty, Mitchell, Alexandria 10
Rody, Roden, £>t. John's, N. B. 13
Industry, Jackson, New York 5
Harlequin, Cropfy, do. 5
CLEARED.
Ship American, Shallcrofs, St. Kitts
South Carolina, German, Charleston
Raven, Reilly, Bordeaux
Brig Bride, Quadrille, do.
Elizabeth, Baifs, Madeira
Lovely Lass, Dominick, Amsterdam
Molly, Kilby, Jeremie
Gratitude, Clifton, Cape Francois
Schr. Flying Fifb, Maxwell, Jamaica
Hetty, Mason, Savannah
Three Sifters, Smith, New York
Eh'za, French, Norfolk
Hannah and Nancy, Tice, Alexandria.
Hawk, Brown, GonaiveS
Patty and Nancy, Mackie, N. Carolina
Eliza, Stevenson, Wilmington, D.
Adventure, Shackleford, Charleston
Betsy, dowdy, Edenton
Polly, Welket, " do.
Sloop Randolph, Barker, Nantucket
Lark, Burrows, St. Thomas
Hiram, Thornton, Port au Prince
Katy and Polly, Green, Snowhill
Willing Lass, Gault, do.
Laura, Bunker, Newprt
Maria, King, New York
Pomona, Bliss, Alexandria
Polly. Seaman, Norfolk
Diana, Pearfon, Alexandria
Anna Corbin, Watson, Folly Landing
NEW-YORK, MAY 30.
ARRIVED. DAYS
Brig Julia, Harrifon, St. Croix 15
Sloop Hercules, Colver, Norfolk 4
Mars, Minor, N. Providence 15
CLEARED.
Brig Goliali, Hath way, St. Thomas
Fox, Howe, Gonaives
Schr. Bayonne, Green, St. Johns
CHARLESTON, May 16.
Yesterday arrived the brig Harriot & Ann,
Rider, Port-de-Paix, 10 days.
On his pafiage from Port-de-Paix, capt.
Rider was twice brought to by the British
frigate Quebeck ; the treatment he received
from her was friendly, except in taking from
him one man, a Swede by birth.
Nothing of any moment has taken place
lately, either at the Cape or Port de Paix.
Provisions were scarce and dear ; the British
fleet of eight fail of the line, and several fri
gates, are cruising close off the Cape ; and
it was reported that an expedition was go
infi against Monti Chrifto, but there was
nothing positively known refpe&ing it when
captain Ryder failed.
Just Received,
From Batavii (via Providence)
170 Sacks of Java Coffee of firll quality
300 half sacks do. do.
a few Box«s of Spices, confiding of
Nutmegs. Cloves and Mace
For sale by
KILLINGS & FRANCIS,
Penoaftreet.
way 3a dtf
For Sale or Charter,
Fair American,
Virginia built—burthen about 70c barrels flour
two years old—and can befent tofea immediately.
1 homas Iff JoJhua Fijher,
No. 5, Dock-flreet.
May V). ■ dlw
For sale, or to r be let,
A new three Jlory brick bouse.
AT the Merchants' Coffee-houfe, on Friday
next, the 2d of June, at 8 o'clock in the
evening, wjll be lold by public vendue*, a genteel
three story house. It is pleasantly situated on the
south fide oi Arch-street, the fourth house above
Fourth -flreet. It may be viewed any time before
the sale. Terms are one fourth in approved notes
at 60 days, and the remainder in seven years on
security and interest annually. If not fold it will
be put up to be let oh a lease of seven year?. Im
mediate poficflion may be given. Further parti
culars will be made known at'the time of sale, by
Richard Footman Sff Co.
Außiontcrs.
May 19. djt
Do£tor Perkins
INFORMS the citizens of Philadelphia, that he
has taken lodgings for a few days at the sign of
the Indian Queen, south Fourth-street. He will
be happy x» wait on those who wiih to fatisfy
themselves of the efficacy of his
Patent Metallic Points;
And will operate gratis for tlfe relief of the poor
at his lodgings, where he has lor sale the inflru
ments, with the ncccffary iaftru&ions for using
them.
« May 39. dtf
Lailson's Circus,
South Fifth-Street*
The Performances at the NEW CIRCU3
TO MORROW EVENING, June i,
Will bfgin by a Giand Parade fii Equestrian
Performer* of bpth foxes.
4 ——
A grand difptay of Horfemanfliip,
By Me firs. M'Donald, Herman, C. Vaodeve dc,
Nicholas Corre, M'Dooald, the Clown, and Lail
for,
(£/■* Particular® Jn the bills of the d<»y.
To be bold,
A large anil convenient
Three Story Brick House;
SITU TE at the nortk-eaft corner of Arch and
*»urth-ftri.-e'«. 'lt contains eighteen rooms—
and it in every r«fpe& well ficifhcd. For particu
lars enquire oi
M. Keppele,
No. ij3, Chefnut-ftrect.
May 31. §
%f)t©alette.
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, MAY 31.
The Comtniffioneri appointed uoder the
treaty with Great-Britain, proceeded, oh
Thursday lad, to choose the fifth Commif
fioncr by ballot, and the votetbeing between
Mr. Ames and Mr. Guilleitiard, the latter
was chosen.
Capt. Moore, of the Blip Genera! Wash
ington, arrived at this port frottt Madeira,
le f t there, April 25, the ship Eagle, Dales,
of Philadelphi a loading for Cadiz, and the
(hip Portfmo'.ith, Monk, to fail next day for
this port. Capt. Moore, on the 26th April,
fell in with a Britilh fleet of 4 (hips of the
line and 2 frigates, one of which, the Revo
lutionnaire, boarded him. The officer treat
ed capt. M. with the'greaieft politeness.
This fleet was under the orders of admiral
lord Hugh Seymour j and theoffieet wha
boarded capt. W. informed him that ano
ther squadron, und«r admiral Nelson, was
cruifin/; off the Weflern Islands, for the
protection of the British and the Ameri
can commerce ; and that they had re-cap
tured a number of the vtffclsof the latter
fiwm the Freoch.
The "reporter" of the debates of
Congiefs in the Merchants Advertiser, has
been heard to fay, that he deduced the two
extra votes from the noes instead of the ayes,
because the Chairman was more certain of
his being right with refpeft to the ayes, hav
ing counted them twice over, than he was
with refpeft to the noes which he counted
but once—nor did the Chairman change his
opinion until a few minutes before the house
met yejlerday.
Some days ago the British Minister in
leaving the lobby of the House of Repre
sentatives was observed to touch Mr. Har
per, whose feat is near the door, and in a
moll familiar manner, reminded him of an
engagement to dinner the next day, This
was noticed by the Editor of the Aurora,
that watchful guardian of our political pu
rity, who was greatly and justly scandali
zed by this public appearance of good
, understanding between a Representative of
the People and a foreign agent. We ap
plaud this zeal ; and having heard it whif
peped that Mr. Harper has received an in
vitation to dinner from another British A
gent, the Consul General, we think our
selves bound to mention it, that it may not
escape the animadversions of our said guar
dian.
Indeed we do not wonder that our said
guardian (hould feel indignant at these open
attempts by British Agents to corrupt our
Representatives : Nor can we help in some
decree partaking of his indignation. As
however it is the manner of corruption
which gives him offence, and not the thing
itfelf, at least we suppose so from his known
impartiality, and his love of reciprocity,
we recommend it in future to the said
agents to manage the matter by means of a
fubfeription for three or four hundred copies
of some newspaper, and of nightly meet
ings at their houses. In this cafe it is pre
sumed, that neither the Editor of the Au
rora nor its partizans, can take offence.
Indeed the British have always been ve
ry bungling hands at corruption and in
trigue : These being among the number of
those accomplishments which they have ne
ver been able to acquire from their neigh
bours across the Channel.
PRICES OF STOCKS.
PniiADKiTBiA, MAT 22.
6 per Cent. ibfia -
Deferred 6 per Cent, iifyhtf
pe» Cent.
4b per C«nt. r
j per C*nt. zo/j a 6
BANK SHARES.
Bank United States, 18 a 10 per cent, advance.
Pennsylvania, if al7 i-»
North America, 47 4 50
INSURANCE COMPANY SHARES.
I. C. of N. A. 3J a 37 4 P er cettt ' advance.
Pennsylvania, at par.
COMMUNICATION.
At a time when it is fo'nectffary for the
fafety and independence of the United States
that the French government (hould be taught
that all the branches of our government arc
in union and that the people are resolved to
support their government, we find, on the
contrary, intriguing charafters, hostile to
our liberties, resorting to every expedient to
keep alive the hopes and expeftations of the
French tyrants. The efforts of some of the
minority in the Heufe of Representatives of
Congress,' cannot fail to Simulate the Direfto
ry to profecnte the plan of subjugation and
plunder.
Barras (in his infelent bombastic speech to
the meek and suppliant Monroe, who truly
teprefented, not the good people of America,
but a set of debased and crouching fatellitet,)
fays, that " France will not degrade heifelf
to calculate the consequences of the conde
scension of the American government to the
suggestions of its antient tyrants —on this
text, the official Redafteur, by order of the
Directory, in a paragraph written no doubt
by De4a Croix, fayi, " France will never
forget that, in fpitc of the most wicked in
iinuations, there palled only by a majority
of tnuo votes that fatal treaty, which has put
the Americans under the guardianship of the
Fnglifh." Attempts are now making by
French partizans, to pcrfundc France that
there is only a majority of two votel against
a propofuion, which has for its avowed ob
jefts the meanest acquiescence in the unpro
voked outrages of haughty France, and a
humble tender of advantage* to which (he
can have no just pretentions until (he hasof
fered an apctogy ftr her inrultt ai.J compensa
tion far her piracies.
If Franca can b* thus perfnaded that there
is within a few votes of a mejority of the Re
prefcntativu of the people, devoted to her
interests; with tlie Vice-Prefiieit'. at their i
head, c»n it be any longer duub'eil that (lie |
will perfitt in attempting the fubvfriiou of I
oar conttiiU'.ion and the dcftiuttion of our
liberties! 1
E)etra3 of a Utter from a gentleman in Virgi
ilia to hit friend in this city. i
" The present appears to me to be a cril>6 ]
in the fortunes of jhe human race. France
evidently seeks to govern the world by plac- ■
in % power in the hands of men who will be i
subservient to her for the preservation of that
power. Thus Holland in the Form of a Re- |
public il, and mud be as obedient to France ;
as a French Province. That Government i
can only be preserved by the proteSion of t
France, and ihofe who govern can only keep \
their placet by the fame protection. So in lialy
you perceive a Republic or two is now form- i
ing. It is by no means impoflible that the i
Austrian dominions in Italy may be loft du- t
ring the present war and converted into one
or moie Republics. If the pecuniary aid of
Britain is withdrawn they mujl be lojl. These (
; Republics can only preserve their existence
j by the aid of France, and they will confe
qnently be er*irely under her controul. j
Should his dominions in Italy even be refto-
I ted to the Emperor, a French party will be
found there, which will not easily be extirpa
ted, and which will be ready in another war
to take up arms for France. It appears to,
me that an effort is making to govern the
whole world either by conquest or by placing
power in the hands of men who will ule it so
as topromote the views of France. The only
effort which ha« ever been mad<t in this conn
try by a foreign nation to influence our elec
tions and to place power in the hands of the
partizani of such foreign nation, hat been
made by France, and she has made it secretly
and openly. She has made it by the immediate
injlrumentality of her public agents, and by
that of American citizens devoted It her.
The fame plan which is incefTantly pursued
in Europe is pursued in America also. It is
to place power in the hands of these who are
indebted to France for it, or who will use it for
her aggrandizement. In Europe it is enough
to establish a republican foim efgovernment,,
in America it is nectjfary to do more. Pof.
! feffing already a Government purely Republi
\ con it is necefTary to calumniate it, to excite
jealoti/ies of the Republican dlfpofitions of those
who conduit it, and thereby to bring them into
disrepute with the People and by doing so to
fill all our departments with men who being
defied by a passion for France mud keep up
that passion to keep their places. The effort I
to universal dominion is plain and itsprogrefs '
is rapid. It seems to be impodible that the
French party in our country can be blind to
this danger. They must fee it—jet they
court it. They keep the people blind by talk
ing of a Briti/b influence which they know :
does not and cannot exifl. Of this the letter
ascribed to Mr. Jefferfon if really wtitten by 1
him, is a Itrong instance. 1 hope and have
heretofore believed, that he did not write it.
1 wait with eagernels for his denial of it. If
it jhall not be denied, I own that my opinion
of the moral charader of that gentleman, as
well as of bis polities will be much dimi/ii/hed."
To THOMAS JEFFERSON, Esq.
IT is now no longer a doubt that you are 1
the author of the abominable letter to Maz- (
zei, which ha« made so much noise rtkl fxci- 1
ted so much indignation throughout the U. I
States. '
Your silence, after being publicly and re- c
peatcdly called on by numbers of your fellow I
citizens to disavow it, is complete evidence £
of yqur guilt. Had you been innocent ef 1
the charge, all who know your keen fenfibi - '
bility at every thing which appears in print to > J
implicate your cooduA, and who have heard '
your profeflisDS of refpeft for public opinion . '
are fatitficd that yoa are fileiit, because you
dare not contradict it: Gonlidering you then
as the avowed author ef that indecent libel
agaioft the Government and chara&er of j
your country, I shall animadvett on it with 1
that freedom which the magnitude of the a
fubjeft requires. f
The effeds intended to be produced by you
in Europe are apparent from the writings of c
a French journalifl: ' £
The following comments are made on y»ur t
precious letter in the r
PARIS MONITEUR : f
"The interesting letter from one of the F
molt virtuous and enlightend citizens of the 1
United States, explains the conduct or
the Americans in rfgard to Francs. n
It is certain that »fall the neutral and friend- r
ly powers, there is Rene from which France si
had a right to expert more interelt and sue- il
court than from the United States. She is G
their true mother country, fjnee she has as- jj
fured to them their liberty and independence.
Ungrateful children, inttead of abandoning
her, they ought to have armed in her de- p
fence. But if imperious circumdances had
prevented them from openly declaring far the
Republic of Fiance, they ought at least to a
have made demonstrations and excited appre-
henfions in England, that at some moment ®
oi other, they would declare themselves ?
This fear alone would have been fufficient to a
foice the Cabinet of London to make peace. 0
It is clear that a war with the United States v
would flrike a terrible blow at the commerce f<
of the English, would give them unealinefs h
for the preservation of their pofTeflions on the *'
Amerisao Continent, and deprive them of
the- means of conquering the French and e
Dutch Colonies: o
Equally ungrateful ani impolitic, the Con- k
grefs hastens to encourage the English, that o
they might pursue in tranquility their war t'
of extermination against France, and to.in- "
vade the colonies and commerce of France. n
They sent Ito London a miniller, Mr. Jay,
known by his attachment to England, and I
his personal relations to lord Grenville, and
he concluded suddenly a treaty of commerce
which united them witb Great Britain, more
than a treaty of alliance. t
Such a treaty, under all the peculiar cir- o
cumQances, and by the consequences it must 1
produce, is an of hostility against France, *
The French Government, in ftiort, has tef. h
tifird the refeotmcat of the French nation, I
by breaking <j(F communication with an da
grateful and faith.cfs ally, until {he fliall re
turn to a trior* jnft and benevolent conduit.
Juitice and found policy, equally approve this
m?afure of the French Government. There
is no do«!*t it will give rife, in the United
•States, to dtfeuffions which may afford a tri
umph to the party of good Republicans, the
friends of France.
Same writers, in dif-tpprobation of this
wife and necessary meafurc of the Diredtory,
maintain that in the United States, the
French have for partizans only certain dema
gogues who aun to overthrow the exilting
government. But their impudent falfehoods
convince no one* and prove only what is too
evident, that they use the liberty of the press
to serve the enemies of France."
The effects intended to be produced by
your letter in the United States,, and .the ef
fects which it must inevitably produce, -will
be hereafter examined.
A FFLLOW-CITIZFN.
[There being some talk of inac&uracy in the tras
lation which bat appered in the papers, »f the
following letter, <we lay it before our Readers
in the French.
From the " Gazette Nationale ou le Moni
teur Univerfel." Paris, Sixtidi, 6 plu
viofe. (January 25.)
FLORENCE, le ier Janvier.
Lettre de M. Jefferfon, ci-devant miniftre
des Etats Unis en France, et Secretaire
v au Departement des Affaires Etrangeres,
a un citoyen de Virginie.
Cette lettre (literalement traduite) eft ad
drefieCa M. Mazzei, auteur des " Recher
ches hiftoriques et politiques fur les Etats
Unis d'Amerique", demeurant en Tof
cane.
" Notre etat politique a prodigieufement
changd depuis que vous nous avez quitte.
Au lieu de ce noble amour de la liberte et
de ce gouvernementrepublicain,qui nous ont
fait palTer triomphans a travers les dangers
de la guerre ; un parti anglican-monarchico
ariftocratique s'eft eleve. Son objet avoue
eft de nous impofer la substance, comme il
nous a deja donne les fbrmes du gouverne
ment Britannique ; cependant le corps prin
cipal de nos citoyens refte fidele aux prin
cipes republicans. TouSles proprietaires
fonciers font pour ces principes, ainfi qu'une
grande mafTe d'hommes a talens. Nous a -
vons contre nous (republicans) le pouvoir
executif; le pouvoir judiciaire ; (deux des
trois branches de la legislature) tousles of
ficiers du gouvernement, tous ceux qui af
pirent a l'etre. tousles hommes timides qui
preferent le calme du defpotifme a la mer o
rage-ufe de la liberte, les marchands Bretons,,
et les Americains qui trafiquent avec des ca
pitaux Bretons, les fpeculateurs, les gens
intereffes dans la banque et dans les fonds
publics. (EtablifTemens inventes dans des
vues de corruption, et pour nous alimiler au
modele Britannique dans fes parties pour
ries.)
Je vous donnerais la fievre si je vous nom
mais les apoftats qui ont embrafle ces here
sies, des hommes qui etaient des Salomons
dans l£ confeil, et des Samsons dans les com
bats, mais dont la chevelure a ete coupee
par la catin Angleterre.
On voudrait nous ravir cette liberte que
nous avons gagnee par tant de travaux et de
dangers. Mais nous la conferverons ; notre
mafTe de poids et de richefle eft trop grande
pour que nous ayons a craindre qu'on tente
d'employer la force contre nous. II fuffit
que nou3 nous reveillons, et que nous rom
pions les liens lilliputiens dont il nous ont
garrottes pendant le premier fommeil qui a
fuccede a nos travaux. II fuffit que nous
arretions les progres de ce fyfteme d'ir.gra
jitude et d'injuftice envers la France de qui
on voudrait nous aliener pour nous rendre £
l'influence Britannique, etc."
NAUTICAL IMPROVEMENTS.
THE Subscriber, Captain of the brig Schuyl
kill, of this port, having in two voyages to the*
Weft-Indies, experienced the salutary effeiflsof
a patent machine, for expelling the foul air
fr«m the holds cf (hips, invented by Benjamin
Wynkeop, and conftrudled in said brig ; doth
certify that the fame machine, worked by the
motion of the veflel at sea, sorted a conftaßt
current of pure air into the {hold, from whence
the foul air was thereby expelled : that the sea
men were remarkable healthy, no disagreeable
fmellwas perceived from.the bilge water, or
provisions ; the veflel's stores, particularly the
liquors, were much cooler than common, and
the paint in the cabin not discoloured asufual in
Welt-India; voyages. A» a friend to trade and
navigation, the fubferibtr thinks it his duty to
recommend the machine to general use, and
from the fifls, as ftatefl above, he fully believes
it may be the means of preserving the timber
of ships and their perishable cargoes from the
definitive effedls of foul air confined in the
holdj of (hjps, and of contributing to the health
and comforc of paftengers and seamen on board.
(Copy( JOHN IRWIN.
Philadelphia, May 2j, 1797.
I hi ve examined the principle of cenft-u<sUon,
and witnessed the operation ef Mr. Benjamin
Wynkeop's ventilators on board of several ves
sels in which they have been conftru&ed, and
am of opinion they will be of great advantage
in preserving the health of the people in lhip»,
and the timber from rotting, by the expulsion
of foul, and the constant circulation of freih air
which they produce :—Several matters of vef
fcU have informed me, that these ventilators
have also prevented the flaining of the paint in
the cabin, which they frequently observed to
take place from the exhalations arising from
bilge-water, sugar, or molaffts. I therefore
earnestly recommend their conftm£)ion on board
of every veflcl, and candidly declare I do not
know any cf the late improvement* in the art
of preserving health on board of lhips, of half
the impoitauce, whether they refpeft oecono
my, ease in execution (being worked by the
motion of the vessel) or efficacy.
JAMES MEASE, Resident
Physician of the port.
Health-Office, State Island,} ,
May 36th, 1797. 3
DIED, lately, and was buried in the B»p
---tift burial-ground, Eleanor Harris, a woman
of refpe&able chstadter, and ■ well qualified
Tutoress of children ; in the inflru£tion of
whom she spent feveial of the last years of
life, in this city. She was a Native
African.
RICHMOND, May 2+ .
At a court of the United States fur the mid
dle circuit ia the diftrift of Virginia, at
the cafiitol in the city 0 f Richmond, on
Monday the tweaty-fecond day of May,
'79).
PRFSENT,
JAMES IREDELL, Efq, one of the jufli
res of the supreme court of the United
States, and CYRUS GRIFFIN, Esq.
Judj>e of the diftrift of Virginia
JOHN BLAIR, foreman, Thomas (J.
Peachy, Otway Bird, Thomas Thotopfon,
(Sorbin Griffin, Richard Randolph, John
Gtbfon, John M'Crea, Thomas Newton,
Edward-Hack Molby, Robert Pollard, Jo.
feph S-elden, Robert Burton, Andrew Don
aid, Callowhill Minnis, Thomas Tinfley and
William Vannerfon, were sworn as the grand
inquest for the body of the diltriift, who
having received their charge, retired fi'em the
bar and retu/ned with the following present
ment :—■
We of the grand jury of the United States
for the dillrift of Virginia, present an a real
evil the circular letters of feveial members of
the late Congrtfs, and particularly letters
with the figHature of .Samuel J. Cabell, cn
deavoring at a time of leal public danger, to
difTeminate unfounded calumnies against the
Jiappy government of the United State*, and
thereby to feparatethe people therefrom, and
to * increase or produce a foreign influence
ruinous to the peacr, happiness and indepen
dence of these United States.
JOHN BLAIR, Foreman.
A Copy
T»(le, WILLIAM MARSHALL, elk.
———w« iiiimwun—Hiw—i'
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVE^,
Wednesday, May 24.
Mr. Liviripfion's fpcech continued.
It had been aflerted witii lingular confi.
dence that France was the firft aggr<lpjr in
spoliation, and that the Btitifh order of
council of June 1793, had been precede] by
one from the French government to the faine
purpose ; he need not enter into a refutation
of that aflertion ; the gentleman from MafTa
rhufetts (Mr. Freeman) had yellerday com
plutely exposed the fallacy of that artifice,
the French, have throughout the pvefent war
been compelled,in her own defence, to follow
the unusual measures adopted hy Britain, and
in this inflance the order iflued by the French
government, expressly Hates the British or
der in its preamble as the sole and necessary
cause of her adoption of similar jpeafures in
her own defence ; but we have ttftimony Hill
Itronger if any stronger were neccflary, it it
the declamtion of lord Grenville to Mr. T.
Pinckney—" Lord Grenville, on being alked,
" said Spain would pursue the fame line of
" conducS, and upon its being objedied, that
" even their late convention with Rufiia, did
" not extend to this ohjedt, he afifwered,
" that though it was not expressly mention
" ed, it was fully understood by both parties
" to be within the intention of it," —and
thus it is, that gentlemen endeavour to elude
the ttuth, and to descant upon fubterfuge
where the peace and happiness of out country
is at (lake ; that such a privilege or concession
fliould be granted to Britain in a time'of war,
was'remarkable enough to excite the jealouly
of the French government ; but that it fliould
be objefted to extend the fame privileges to
France by.negotiation is more extraordinary
am J we are told that Vattel is mistaken in
his do£lrine —he is in one cafe no authority
to be relied on, he mnft be utterly abandoned,
Dut in another his authority is sacred ; all
that had been said on the fubjeft ef this ar
ticle will equally apply to the disregard of the
neutrality of goods on neutral bottoms, ;s
declared in the inftruraent of the armed neu
trality.
Having offered his free opinion 011 these
several articles, he was willing now to de
clare as freely that there were many of the
circumstances of complaint urged by the
French Republic, which they were not
founded in carrying to the extent which they
do ; and it was on this account in an espe
cial manner that, he considered the amend
ment proposed, to deserve the most decided
support of the committee ; he had little
doubt of their being wrong, he had little
doubt of their being open to conviftion ; &
as they no doubt think themselves as much in
the right ia these cases, as they thought this
government in the wrong ; it became us to
use towards them a'language suitable to that
liberality which benefits a wife and prudent
nation ; it becomes us to examine our own
conduit and not rely on our own infallibili
ty : to enquire difpaflionately, and not rufli
into war before we have considered either the
cause or the eonfequences ; he appealed to
every gentleman, which would be the con
duit most consistent with true dignity, to
' obstinately persist in error at every rilk of cha
racter and disaster, or to examine our con
duft, and if we have erred to acknowledge
it manfully ; she does not require our humi
liation as gentlemen declaim, and if' (he did
we Ihould never submit to it—from a single
stipulation into which we have entered with
any nation we ought not and will not depart,'
(he does does not demand it; and therefore
we ought to fay to her we will place you
on a footing with every other nation—you
have been mistaken in some matters, we have
been mistaken in others—we will difcufst(>em
and this unpleasant difference ; would this be >
abjeft, would this be humbling us in the
dust—or would it be the most consistent wjth
true dignity ? Which is it more noble tt»
repair a fault or to persist in error even with
success ?—but where are the means to secure
success even if we Ihould persist ; but this is
a delicate fubjeft, he would not dwell upon
it; let us enquire whether wejiave maintain
ed that impartial conduft towards all nations
which we ought to have dor.e ?
Tkere are tome of those things which if not
founded in right, might without any violatioa
ef virtue have operated more 5n favor of France .
than any other nation; gentlemen would per
ceive that he alluded to our connexions with
that people in trying tien*s of our revolution : .
he was one of those wfcofe number appeared to
bedecriafing every day, that retaining his r«v
trence foro'ttfe/hioned notieii*, hi ronfidetedaratitnde ?s amogg t'ne mil amiaMe «f the vir- 1 Iv
tues ; and lie f > very dull of difi rmiinatieu, | men
with others, that he could nctcctifi- ."(Ml
derthai as worthy of admiration in the Individ- I j.j e
tial and of 110 exiftentc in a nation ; a feufe of I ,
ebiigatioii'lie' conceived to We a more r.-.tional
principle of connexion nations aswtlil 0 ' '
as individual!, than any that could arise from men
th c'/.'-./f of fordid iutereft ; the one wis capa- ficie
bit of permanently attaching the afleflion!, the fidei
other was al vays Contingent and precarious j— t j, y
we have seen nations actuated by the moll ir.vc I
terate an\i unquenchable hatred, we have seen |
tlicoi after entering into treaiies of amity and J .
tommtrct, fuddeuly roused by tie spirit of av- '"g
ance, and dilrcgarding all the most flcred (11- the
garments plunged into the most Yumorfelefs 1 vvha
vtit ; when we fee thbfe paflions, fhill we fay, I forr
the milder »ffettions have no place in the he- BRI
man heart to counterbalance fueh horrid psf-1 q £)
fions ; forbid it reason and forbid it truth !He I j
trusted if our government had erred, becoming I
pa.ns would be taken to remove the ft-nfe of in- mer
jury ; that there had been favori conferred on I cou
our nation, whichfhould impel use to this of foiii
natural juttice he coujd prove ; what was the IHe
language of our government when we fought I ma J
and obtained the luecours cf France; when in l^ s
our need we breathed not a found but of eter- I
nal gratitude tor disinterested favors—ofbene-i I P eo
fits inaujanimoufly bestowed, w hat wa; our I not
language in the hour of peril, when the threat- was
nings of all Europe rung in her ears ; was it ne- I the
ceflary for us to assert at the hour in which »e I att<
ilood nalongtr in need ot her fuppoit, that al I p r{
though we had felt Tome gratitude > the hour
of our distress, that we now felt it no longer ; ,
was this preserving the dignity of our country-, P '
the honor of our government, and the refpefta- I ll "
bility of a virtuous and independent nation !
No he believed that fuck condufl hadleffcned I ]
us in the eyes of the world, an ! that it became I em
US now to retrieve our character by the removal w2
of that fallification of the nationaj probity. Let I
us look to the declaration of our government ~
that we may ascertain what we thought of the
favors of France in former periods—look into da <
the journals ofCongrefs 6th Asgufl 1778, and
there it will be found —" Tiwt the treaties be ras
" tween his most christian majesty and the Uni- tio
" ted States of America so fully demonstrated me
♦' his wisdom and magnanimity as to command
<1 the reverence of all nations, the virtuous cit ,
" mem of America in particular caif never I '
if kqrgkt his beneficent atttntion to iheir vi- mc
" olated rights, nor cesje to alKnoivleJge the fp<
" hand of a gracious Providence in raising I th<
" them up so powerful andillutlrious a friend." J n0
—He hoped this gratitude would never be for- I ca
gotten or done away, he hoped we ftiouid ne I
ver fly in the face of that providence by fueh |
Wafphemy, but that the fame power which t w '
had raised up in om- adversity would be re- l aC
fpefltd in our prosperity. I
\_TO be continued. J _ j lei
Tuifflay, May 30. I B
Mr. Coit, from the committee of elec- I dc
tioas, made a farther report, which was or- nc
dered tolie on the table. I cl
The order of the day being called for, I ill
the house again resolved itfelf into a com- di
mittee of the whole, Mr. Dent in the chair, c<
on the address reported in answer to the |bi
speech of the President ' of the United ft
States ; when .
Mr. W. Smith enquired of the chair- r;
man whether there was not an error in coun- b
ting the votes on the question of yesterday. tl
The Chairman replied that there was. It f;
arose, he supposed, from the number of ft
strangers in the house, and from their patt
ing too near the members. The true num- o
bers were, for the amendment 46, against it il
52. He rcquefted strangers would not t
Hand so near the members as to cause a fimi- 0
lar mistake in future. e
The Chairman proceeded to read the . d
third and fourth paragraphs of the address ; f
when having read the part which fays, " al
though it is the firft and most ardent wish of v
our hearts, that peace may be maintained," c
&c, *
Mr. Dayton (the Speaker) wished to t
introduce an amendment. He did not be- t
lieve it ought to be " the firft and most ar- : i
dent wish." It had been well (hewn by the 1
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Sit- ■ <
greaves) that liberty was more dear than ;
peace : he therefore moved to insert " ear- I
nest," indead of " firft and ardent."—Car- ! 1
ried. ]
Mr. Coit moved the amendment which
he had already laid before the committee,
after the word " world," in the 4th line of the !
4th paragraph, to add, " ami although we
wi(h that republic to stand on ground as fa
vorable as any other nation, in their rela- 1
tion to the United States j yet, &c. I
This motion not being seconded, fell of j
course.
Mr. Williams propofedan amendment,
intended as. a substitute for the above, •
which was ordered to lie on the table. It .
proposed to put France on the fame footing '
with other nations, profeffing that if she was j
not so, it was not owing to any partiality in
favor of any other nation, and that in ex
pressing this wish, the house did not mean to
interfere with the powers of the Executive.
Mr. Williams alio moved to insert, in
stead of "we can never surrender our
rights;" in the fame paragraph, " we never
will surrender."—Carried.
Mr. Lyon moved to strike out, in the 7th
line of the fame paragraph, " wisdom, dig
nity and moderation," and to insert in their
place, " good intentions," as he said he did
not there prepared to approve all the
former a£ts of government, but for other
purposes.
Mr. W. Smith thought it would not
(how the wisdom and dignity of that house
to agree to the amendment.
; It was put and negatived, there being pn
ly 10 votes for it.
Mr. COIT said he thought that part of
the sth .paragraph which related to the exe
cutive direftory would be less exceptionable,
and equally convey their disapprobation of
such sentiments, if it were expreffied more
generally, and without any allusion to
M. Barras. He proposed, therefore, to
strike out from " at" in the 4th line of the
sth paragraph to " United States ' in the
7th fine, and to insert, " any sentiments
tending to derogate from that confidence ;
such sentiments, wherever entertained, serve
to ferince an imperfeft knowledge of the re
al cpipicn of our constituents."
, Mr. Giles seconded the motion ; but
wilhed it extended farther, as he did not
know what was meant by the exprefiion " to
separate them from.the.nfelves."
IMr. W. Smith obje&ed to the amend. , exprc
ment of the gentleman from connefticut | count
j (Mr. Coit) because it was hypothetical, .were
I He wished. as the. fa£l was clearly eftablilh- 1 have
I ed, to have a direst reference to the speech ! and o
of Barras in their indignation of' the fenti- tied.,
ments. As the matter had appeared of fuf- digni
I ficient importance to find a place in the Pre- expre
fident's speech, thought it was also wor- fibilit
I thy of their notice. He infilled upon its Affei
I being an attempt to divide the people of this from
country from their government, by speak- M
ing insultingly of the latter, and flattering of B:
the former. He did not exa&ly know its ol
I what was meant by the " suggestion of our govei
1 former tyrants," but he supposed it meant the 1;
I bribery, and that by " perfidious people," ed.
I General Washington was included. the 1
, I Mr. Nicholas was in favor of the a- fenti:
. mendment. He denied that " suggestion" but \
could mean bribery, or that iniidious per- It w:
: I sous could include General "Washington. al ac
IHe hoped the gentleman would not thus the g
: I make it his bilfinefs to hunt up for insults. said 1
1 As to the expreflions of government and plica
I people, they were certainly one, and could at lar
I not be divided. The American government as th
I was the people of the United States ; and if guag
- I the remainder of this offenfive address was abun
- I attended to, it would be seen that the was 1
French government and French people were ted a
[ used as fynonimous terms. He allowed that on.]
' I speech alludexl to was one of the most fool- tive
1 ifh things he had ever seen, but he could find ny o
I no serious cause of- offence in it. it w<
! I Mr. W. Smith said, that by the gov- upor
e I ernment, the executive only was meant. He, dout
' I was convinced of this from the manner in menl
' I which he had seen the word used in the Hot
e French government paper, entitlad the Re- the
~ I dafteur. JV
d | Mr. Coit believed that whenever M. Bar- inful
• I ras had said, it was not* worth their attentive
I tion. We might defy France or French- it in
cl I men to fay worse of us than they themselves whii
( I said. He did not himfelf know how far j vem
R I the speech of Barras was an aft of govern- ' beer
I ment : for, said he, when we directed our wou
ic speaker to reprehend Randal and Whitney, cou!
g I the words he used upon the occasion were the
" I not an aft of the house. 011 another oc- to t
r 1 cafion, when the house were about to receive the
I the French flag, they could not call what tive
t I was said by the speaker on that occasion, an ver
e . I aft of the house. the;
I Mr. Williams said, if Mr. Pinckney's the
I letter was an authentic paper, the speech of upc
I Barras was likewise so ; and if so, it was the
c- I doubtless an indignity to government. He did faic
ir- I not think with the gentleman from Maffa- St
I chufetts (Mr. Freeman) that it was " child- me;
ir, I ifh gasconade." He believed it was inten- te
Ti- I ded as an insult on the government of this be
ir, country. As to the gratitude which had the
he I been said to be due to the French nation hoi
ed for their afliftance in the war, he thought coi
their services were arpply repaid by the fepa- for
ir- ration of this country from Great Britain ; he
in- besides, he added, the French never came to in ;
the afliftance of this country, until they mu
It saw we were likely to be fuccefsful in our in
of struggle. th<
iff- Mr. Gordon said there could be no doubt no
m- of the authenticity of Barras's speech, since nq
it it flood upon the fame ground as the reft of thi
lot the documents. It was a flagrant insult up- en
ni- on government, in his opinion, and warrant- fa<
ed all that had been said upon it, as it was M
the doubtless an attempt to separate the people it
fs j from the government. H
al- Mr. Thatcher said the question was, no
of whether or not any notice should be taken
1," of the infillting speech of Barras. When, to
said he, the French flag was presented to T
to the house, we were told we were not to flop tu
be- : to reason but express forthwith our feel- th
ar- I ings of affeftion ; but now when the most bi
the ; unexampled insult is offered to us, such as in
iit- i one man would not receive from another, we th
lan 1 are not to notice it at all, left it should offend w
;ar- the French republic. He knew of only one O
lar- I reason for passing it over in silence, and that nc
if it was true had some weight with him. V
lich That Barras spoke as the organ of the ot
tee, French nation there could be no doubt; but fu
the he had his doubts whether he knew himfelf p<
we what he said. The speech had strong marks jtc
fa- 1 of delirium, and he could not help believ- ' re
ela- I ing that when he delivered it, he was either w
I drunk or mad. If the world went on for h
[ of j 6,000 years to come, they would never again tl
j behold such a produftion. He then exam-, yi
ent, ' itled the different parts of it in a ludicrous if
ove, way peculiar to himfelf. P
It! Mr. M'Dowell was in favour of the a- b
ting i mendment. He did not think himfelf bound 1 h
was as had been insinuated by the gentleman ft
yin ' from South Carolina, to echo all the fenti- , v
ex- ments in the President's speech. He wished
nto to have an opinion of his own. He agreed f
tive. Barras's speech was an indignity to the U- t
, in- nited States ; he felt it, and would express il
our it ; but he did not think this the proper r
ever time. He denied the justness of the con- t
ftruftion put upon the speech by the gen- c
: 7th tletnan from South Carolina. He supposed '
dig- by " perfidious persons," was meant the per- 1
their sons in this country, generally called the f
; did British faftion. He differed in opinion also f
1 the with that gentleman ■on the fubjeft of divi- t
ither ding the people and government, and could
npt allow that the phrefe good people was
I not intended an insult. He allowed it was 1
louse going too far to fay that we owed our liber- '
ty to France ; but being in some refpeft
r on- true, it took off from the .offence- Hewas
' sorry to fee on one fide of the house con
rt of ftant attempts made to excite the resentment
exe- of the people of this country against France,
able, It was not necessary at present to raise firth
>n of feelings. They were not about to unfheath
more 'the sword. and" to fay, " We conquer or
1 to die." What gentlemen could not effeft by
to reason, they seemed inclined to effedt in a
f the different way. He did not think this fair
1 the conduft.
nents Mr, Venable supported the amendment,
nee ; He did not think any of the objeftions made
serve against it, had. much weight in them. He
le re- thought tie mode of exprefling our sense of
. ' the indignity shewn to this country by the
; but speech in question, was judiciously chosen
1 not by the gentleman from Connefticut. It was
j" to most consistent with dignity, It was not
wife in them to take notice of every harsh
, exprefflon which might be used against this j rti"«
; country-in any foreign nation ; for if such j char
\ were our conduct, foreign nations would ! luch
' have good ground of complaint -against us, |
! and on that floor the account would be set- ! °f ri
tied.. Nor did he think it, very becoming or [ P°' t
dignified in gentlemen in that house so to ; refe:
express themSlves, as to excite frequenft ri- r efei
fibility—nor was it very honorable to that j men
Assembly. (Alluding to the gentleman , »pp
from Massachusetts.) l '
Mr. Sitgreaves had no doubt of the speech He
of BarrSs being an official paper, and that ■ use»
its objeft was to divide the people from the
■ government. If he provsd this, he trufled fult,
the language of the report would be prefcrv- men
' ed. It would be allowed that was i that
the mouth of the Direftory, and that the J Pjel
sentiments which he fpeak3, are not his own, !
' but what were before hand agreed upon.— "> ''
. It was doubtless, therefore, a folernn offici- of tj
, al aft. With refpeft to the observations of of "
i the gentleman from Virginia, that what he He
. said refpefting our government was not ap- twe
1 plicable to the Executive, but to the People aH d
1 at large,lie believed he was wholly mistaken, 'y*
t as the word government, in the French lan- of
( guagt, constantly meant Executive, as was whi
s abundantly clear from the way in which it if f<
; was used in Mr. Adet's Notes. [He quo- ban
2 ted a number of passages to prove his afferti- hke
t on.] It was generally used for the Execu- f" IC
- tive in contra diftinftion to Congress,. or a- the:
1 ny other of the constituted authorities. If at t
it were clearly intended to convey an insult
- upon our Executive (and there could be no whi
e, doubt of it,) even the mover of the amend- aga
n ment could not think it unbecoming in that m t
e House to express themselves in the words of
:- the address. 1
Mr, Gallatin said whatever might be tf ro!
•- insult intended by the Speech of the Execu- ' n g
i- tive Direftory, he thought it best to notice dr«
1- it in general terms, as it was the sentiment
:s which was .objeftionable, and not the Go- ''*■
ir j vernment of France. But as so much had Hi
i- been said about government and people, he evl
ir would fay, that an insult offered to the people e "<
f, could not be less offenfive than one offered to dij
re the government. He supposed they alluded
c- to the British treaty, which was as much an
;e the instrument of Congress as of the Execu- ou
at tive, and of the People as either, since they 10
in very generally petitioned in favor of it. He ln
then took notice of the perversions which | Ol
•'s the gentleman from South Carolina had put
of upon the werds of Baiyas, and denied that tl(
as there was the least ground for them, and he
id "said that the Gazette of the United a
[a- States might as well be called a Govern- to
d- ment paper of this country, as th* Re da c- #t
:n- teur that of France. If, said Mr. G. it tit
lis be our intention to declare war at once, then co
ad there might be some propriety in taking tit
on hold of every word which would bear to be
■ht construed into an insult, but' if we wished th
ia- for peace, it was unwise to do so. Besides, nf
1 ; he said this Speech was not communicated
to in an official manner, nor could it be so com- fa
iey municated. It was sent by Mr. Pinckney it
>ur in a newspaper, from which the . copy sent to jc
them was translated, but the tranflrition was
ibt not even authenticated, as usual. He did S
ice nqt dispute the faft, but it was a thing which g
:of they were not bound to notice ; indeed an tl
ap- error with refpeft to a name appeared on the «
nt- face of the paper ; and delivered to n
vas Mr. Monroe who was Oo longer Minister, n
pie it could not be officially communicated.— b
He therefore thought it was not worth their g
'as, notice. n
ten Mr. Otis thought it right to pay refpeft t
en, to what was recommended by the President. n
Ito The question was whether they should no
lop tice the insult generally, or in reference to c
eel- the Direftory. He was fa favor 6f the firft,
10ft but as this was the only opportunity given f
1 as in the-addrefs of expressing their opinion of «
we theconduft of the French goverament, lie
end wished the address to stand as reported. Mr. t
one Otis remarked upon Barras' speech. He did '
:hat not know whatwas meant by granting peace. •
tim. When parties were at war, one granted the t
the other peace ; or sometimes a stronger fiower
but fuffered a weaker to be at peace ; —he sup- 1
lfelf posed tha French it in the latter sense <
arks towards this country, on condition that we 1
[iev- ' refpeft her. What was meant here ? If it :
tlier was sovereignty over their own nation, we
1 for had nothing to do with it ; if it was any o
gain ther, it muff be the sovereignty they had o
;am- ver us. He concluded by remarking, that
rous if there were any members in that house u
pon whom any imputation could reft of their
e a- ' being unduly attached to the French cause,
rand 1 he thought it a good opportunity to come
man forward and convince the world the charges
end- ; were unjust.
ifhed j Mr. Livingston took notice of what had
reed fallen from the gentleman last up, and shewed
e U- the folly of adopting an irritating tone ; as,
press if we charged a foreign government with
oper making use of of one difrefpeclful expreflion,
con- they would htve no difficulty in retorting the
gen- complaint, as in the course of that debate,
lofed the gentleman from South-Carolina (Mr.
: per* Harper) had called the King of Spain the
the humble vnjfal of France, and had not been
1 also sparing et his epithets to other powers ; and
divi- the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.
:ould Thatcher) had termed Barras drunhox mad.
was He alfs noticed the conllruftions put upon
was the'words " granting Peace," and " Sove
liber- 'eignty, as very extravagant. The speech,
fpeft be allowed, was bad enough, but he saw no
e-was reason for torturing it in this manner,
con- Mr. Otis wished .to know what he undtr
ment Hood by the word Sovereignty. _
ance. Mr. Livingston replied, that if he were
fiwh to do lhat, lie supposed he fhouH be called
heath (he defender of Barrets, as he had already
er or- foeen termed the defender of France. He
&by would not, therefore, doit,
'" a Mr. Gile> said the gentleman from Mas-
S . fachufetts had called upon persons who might
lie under imputation of being friend* to
ment. {., anc gjo come forward, and shew the impu
m u P ations fiilfe. He informed that gentleman
f r that he did not leel his reputation hurt by
ne .° any imputation whiTh he or any other per
l V fun might throw upon him. He
oen he genilrraan c«uldconvince thetn they weie
wrong, than call thcn» names.
s not
harsh Mr. Otis explained. He declared, he
' ih?*nt only to fay that they had been unjuftiy F{
' charged will) thsfe imputations, and that
' such a coaduft would shew it. " 4
| Mi. W, Smith again urged the propriety. t^c
; of retaining the woids in' theaddref a« .v
---1 poited, as the amendment proposed had no
reference to the Prefidefii's fpeeph, as that "
1 referred to an of§:ial aft ; whereas the amend
ment had no relation to France, but would c
apply to tlie people of Ch ; na, or the people 1
■ of this country, as well auto those of France.
He believed the discussion had beer, of f >me IWfl
. use, because it was now on all fides acknow
ledged that the speech of Darras was an in- '
fult, which was not allowed at thecoramenee cl
ment of the debate. He could only fay,
j that gemlemtH died hard; to use the ex- °j 1
; preffion of his friend from Pennsylvania (Mr. .
! Sitg>eaves) they fecmed determined t* la die 13 a
in the Injl titleb. The objeftions to the words .
of thu present address, were like the objeftions <>n ''
of Thomas Paine to the writings of Moses. *"')
He denied lh;it there were any similarity he- " ne
tween exprrffions used in debate in this house, *
and expieflions used Ly an executive author!-
ty. No notice, he said, ought to be taken
of what fell from members in that house, to 1
'whilfl they were allowed to be in order ; and j' un
if foreign ininiftcrs' attended to hear their-de- bn j'
bates, arid heard things which they did not
like, they ought not to take exceptions at it, .
since they came there uninvited, and it was lr<
their duty to fay what appeared to them right toQ
at the time.' « mai
The queOion was put on # the amendment, luu
when there appeared 49 vutes for it, and 49 "" l
againll it. The chairman declared it carried 1 c
in the affirmative.
Mi. Evans proposed te have (truck out wo
the wotds " an attempt to fejmrate them
from themselves; ' but Mr. Venablc defend
ing the propriety of the expreflion, he with
drew his motion. »
Mr;Coit thought the firft sentence in the P ri:
sixth paragitph rather funk the compofuion. rea
[ He wifned to strike them out, and " how- ,ul
: ever" in the fourth line, and add after the or
. end of the next line, " by the trunfaSions
> dtfclofed by your communications.'' —Carried. e '
1 Mr. Dayton (the Speaker) (aid he had ani
, an amendment to propose. It was to strike at
_ out the wotds after "peace," in the Bth line j"°l
{ in the fith paragraph to the word " nation"
e in the 14th line, andtoinlert, " We there- ,
! fore receive with the utmost fatisfaftion your "j
t information that a frelh attempt at negocia- a "
t lion will be inftiiuted, and we cherilli the .
i hope that a mutual fpiri' of conciliation, and 111
D a disposition on the part of the United Slates an
[- to place France on grounds as favorable as ln
ether countries in their relation and- connec- I
it tipn with us, will produce an accommodation tu
n compatible with the engagements, rights, du
g ties, and honor of our-nation.
,e Mr. W. Smith thought this amendment ar
d the fame in fubflance as that which had been j ll
3, negatived, and if so it was oat of order. in
d Mr. Nicholas said the gentleman might P|
1- fatisfy himfelf it was not the fame with his, as
y it would not give occasion to all the petty ob- 11
o jeftions he ha-) brought againll it. a |
is Mr. Day-ton hoped -the gentleman frcm V 1
id South-Carolina would take a more manly \
:h ground of opposition to his amendment than n
in the one he had suggested. The amendment-
\e was not the fame as the one rejefted, it was 1S
to not introduced in the fame part of the addiefj, a
:r, nor would it.require to be re committed, to v
_ be infertcd. He would also fin(J lhat feme "
:ir gentlemen would vote for this, who purrheir "
negative upon the other ; il this will nut fa
■ft tisfy the gentleman, he believed the Chair
it. man would. . . ' !
o- The Chairman declared the motion in 1
to order. j
ft, Mr. Thatcher called upon the mover to r
en state in what this motion differed from that I
of which was rejefted.
he Mr. Dayton said, that this motion don- '
Ir. tained a principle not found in the report of :
lid the committee, viz. to place France in as
ce. favorablea situation as other countries,hoping !
he that this will be the means of accommodation. 1
rer He wished this sentiment inserted in the let- , 1
ip- ters of credence of the envoy. Yet he with- j 1
nfe ed he might not be charged with Handing on j I
we forbidden ground. It this sentiment Werr !
fit aot inserted in the address, he should loi.k
we upon it with perfeft indifference. He would
o- have proposed this amendment, if he had not
o- met with a fccond. He was desirous of
hat ptefefving peace with the French Republic
u- upon any terms short of national disgrace.
ieir The gentleman from Massachusetts would fee
[fe, the difference betwixt tire two nations.
,me Mr. W. Smith spoke at-confiderable length
ges againll this amendment. He said nobody i
would objeft to putting Frasiee on as good j
had a footing as Gieat-Britain, if she was not
wed f», but he believed she was now in a better
as, fituatien, and that therefore she could net
mh consent to be placed on the fame footing
ion, with Great-Britain. He ohjefted to it al
the foj beeaufe it held out an idea lhat recon
a'te, ciliation could only be had through lhat
Mr. house, and because it would be an inlct
tht ference with the Executive. He dwelt upon
leen each ofthefeobjeftions at configurable length,
and and upon his faying that it was pofiible if
Mr. the Executive should think it right not o
tad. comply with the direftion of the h»ufe, it
pon might be made the ground of impeachment,
ove- Mr. Dayton interrupted him, by infilling
cch, upon it, that no such conftruiiion could
jno be put upon the amerfdment. Mr. S. beg
ged to differ in opinion, and continued his
der- ohjeftions.
'l"he call for the quefiion when Mr. Smith
ft down, was very loud \ but, on Mr. A 1
jj _ j len wishing the commiltft to rife, that
~ j might be given for an enquiry how far thia
j jmotion would go, as he waß not fine but
some improper treaty might have been made,
and if so, it would put France in the f. m<
4^al " fituatior., hr tnojed for the commVtee to rile.
Il lefe aCcordrngly end had leave to fit again.
« to Adjourned.
man Compting House to let.
per- npHE Cotnpting House former'y oetopieJ hy
ither L ur.JehnE. Caldwell, on Rof s ' wbarf, vri!
wete Uvtapt on iftjune—and for litre to ar.y perfo
wh» may apply 'or Tor reims enquire o
the printer hcre»f.
,he I Kzr 3*- / ' eo6 P
From the Fasimer's Weekly Museum.
•' 4ad the driving is Hie the driving of Jehu,
the fort cf Ninfki ; for he drizvtb furioujlj."
NOTHING is to be gained by. fueh ex
ceflive speed. It ia the inaik of a g'ddyi
haii btained charioteer. He generally either
brisks hit ne.k, or is distanced in jhe race,
by his very eagerness to reach the goal.
Lord Cheflerfield took a diftincfion be*
'tween liafte and hurry, and, with the pitrt*
lion of a lawyer, marked their diflimilitude.
There is prifmveiy asmuch difference between '
these pretended coitfin germans, as between
my sermons, and those of the Arch Bishop
of Csnleibury.
Hurry.oras it is called inthetext, ' driving,'
i 3 a mischievous imp, goading us to dash our
feet againlk a stone, to run, with night cap
on.into the llreets ; in fine, to be eager flov
en)y and imperfeft. You may dispatch bli
finefs, but if you hurry it, I will not afl> tor
the second fight of a Scotchman, that I may
discover your approaching bankruptcy.
Young man, 1 fay unto thee, walk gently
to tichee, td honours, to plcafure. Do not
run. Observe the impatient racer. He is
breatblefs ; he is fallen ; bemired, andbelu
ted ; like Dr. Slop, overthrown By Obadi
ah ; he is distanced ; he is luffed. Walk
circumfpeflly, it is Paul's advice, not like a
fool, but like a philofnpher. Compare the
man of moderation with the man of impe
tuosity. The firft becomes a Franklin, ho
noured in king's courts. The second is ei
ther in (foal, oi in •' poverty to the very lips."
In m\- boyhood, 1 remember that a parent
would sometimes repeat lesions of (economy
as I fat on his knees, and then lift me in his
arms that I might look at HoGarth's plates
of Induflry amd ldlencfs. On youthful fan
cy the pitture was more imprefTed than the
precept. relie-ve that defciiption of tr.)f
readers, who tire at the didadlick and the '
ttite (tile of morality, I will attempt a (ketch
or two ; wi h a little c«lou<unG.
I will imagine the figure of a tripling,
educated for business. Seven years he swept
and garnished a compting house ; opened it
at five, and did not bar it until nine ; fold
ropes and boxes for himfelf, as well as bales
for his master j read " The Sure Guide to
Love and Esteem," and worked every rule
in Hodder's Arithmetick. This, all mull '
allow, was a gentle pace. No freaks, no
starts discompose the placid life of a youth
in these habits. Men already look forward,
and behold him a Dank Director, or fee him
in the largest store, in the mart.
One ill omen'd day, when the moon was
full, or the dog star growled, ( I do not re
member which, our sober youth, whose
studies were seldom more miscellaneous, than
. an invoice, or a bill of lading, unluckily
, had his eye caught by a Land advertisement
in a newspaper. It will abridge a tedious
. process of circumstances to imagine him in
, Georgia. How many acres of sand were
then bought and fold, and how he dafiied
about thy falls, St. Antony, who art, more
j visited, than the (hrine of Thomas a Becket!
f Over these sands he already drives in his cha
, riot, with somebody by his fide too ; a La
t. dy from Babylon. Although the carriage
5 is encumbered with a speculator, and ,
and imaginary bank bills in bales, yet how
0 we glide along, not like the son of Ahi- „
c maaz, bringing good tidings. The driving
r is like the charioteerfhip of the son of Nitn
,fhi, furious, careless, mad.
. | But his vehitle, like Count Ballet's in.
the play, rolls on the four aces, or some
„ thing as unliable. He drives furioufly a -
i gainil, a post* He is an overthrown Pha
-0 ' raoh, not Si it is vulgarly exprefled, in a
„ peck, but in a Red Sea of troubles. He
: has driven so furioufly that he has snapped
his traces, loft the linch pin, and broken the
,f axle of his credit.
j, A Quack is a Jehu ;he not only drivei
g furioufly himfelf, but he drives his poor pa
n> tientstoo. When I fee one of these moun
t. tebanks I always' consider the sick he at
h. tends, as so many crouching dray horses,
)B , soon to be driven out of breath. Ye fim
rt 1 pie farmers why do you his wheels ?
k ; When ye are diseased cannot a leaf of mug-
Id i wort be without paying him for
0 t the cropping ? When we are wounded, your
of youngest children may bring you a bit' of
lie betony, and it will not be charged.
Of the genius of drivers, the Negro dri
"ec ver, and the imp'etuous Frenchmen are a
noted species. But it does not demand the
th perspicacity of a watchman to discover their
dy cotirfe. They go on at a fearful rate ; and
0( j it may demand a thunderbolt to arrest either
lot in the impious career,
let The LAY PREACHER.
ict
fig COMMUNICATIONS.
al-
,n " That a certain description of foreigners
' at should endeavour to obtain the falfe concef
"" fion, that We have ever placed France in a
worse situation than Britain, or any other na
-1 tion on a general view of the whole of our
; refpe&ive treqfies, is to be accounted for, as
° it may serve to substantiate a pretext that
' 11 the French spoliations fliould reft as they
nt ' are, to compensate the pretended injuries
"'2 which this conceflion will acknowledge : but
u as i« no one point of view can any advanta
tages accrue from so falfe and so difgraceful
an acknowledgment, but on the other hand
. , a probable facrific? of immense property,
'j". every true American will be careful not to
. sport with our national honor and individual
imr ■ , .
th.B
ut Every thing depends on our governments
supporting the national charaiSer at the prefcnt
nir- moment —whit but the Roman name, carried
rile, ihe Roman Republic triumphantly thro' all its
ain. difficulties to tße zenith of power and refpedU
bility.
The ch=raffer.of our country is committed
to the reprcfentatives of the people —and it re
mains to be determined, whether that charac
[ tarflwllVte preserved in the view of our ovrn
w j. citizens, aVI in thn of the rations ofEuiope.
. r | o It i! afie: ted as a fi<ft that the cnodufk of the
re o Direflory of Franie towards this coui try is
reprobated fcy a great majority of the citizens
of Paris.Important Public Document.
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale
At the Ofßdc of the Editur ofthe Gaiet»e of the
Unitid States,
No. 119 Chefnut-Strctt,
ONE K OLI.AR AND FIFTT CINTj]
A FEW COPIE S OF THE
Receipts and Expenditures
OF THE UNITED STATES,
For the Year >79J,—
Bein£the I.atist Period to whiA an account
can be made up.
February it. §•
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & id proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pifirs
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hoik, in cases of 4Qdoztn each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different sizes
Hazlenuts, in fecks
Whiting
S°Pf* r " , y in hhds
White Lead C
8c Spanish Brown J
?or Sale by
PETBR BLIGHT.
January 4
SWAN N'S
Riding School, Hcrfe Academy W Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square. Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his sincere thanks tothofe gentlemen by
whom he hai been employed, during his rer.dencc in
this Cky, and flatters himfelf that the success of his
efforts, in the numerous, obstinate and dangerous dis
eases in Horses, in which he has been conlultcd, to
gether with hit moderate charges, will secure their
future favors and recommendation.
He now begs leave to inform them ar;dthe public
at large that hts spacious and commodious premises,
created for the purpofea above described arc open for
the reception of pupils of either sex, who wiftito be
inftru&ed in the Art of Riding, and the iigat method
of governing their horses, so as to ride them with
ease elegance, and fafety—their horses will be care
fully and expediiioufly broke, for every purpofe,and j
made obedient to he will of the riders ; the natura||
powers Which are (hut up in them, will be unfolded
by art, calling forth uniformity of motion, and giving
to that noble animal all those beauties of altion which
providence has so bountifully bellowed on them. |
Also, at his hospital, every diforderto which the |
fcorfe is liable will be treated accoiding to the rules of ,
art, confirmed by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the above institution has r*ever been
qoeftioned,that it has long been wanted in this city,
every gentleman's stud willmanifeft, and T. Swamn
as the hi ft efiablifher of the veterenary art, solicits and
rtlies upon the fuppoit of that public (which he is
ever anxious in serving) to enable him to bring it to
perfe&ion. The idea of a fubfeription for that pur
pose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who wish
to promote the institution—the amount of each fub
feription to be returned by services in any of the de-
he profefTes, agreeable to the rate of charges
stated in his hand bill. Such fubfeription is now o
pen, and the signatures of many refpe&able gentlemen
already obpained. He therefore injorms his friends
and such Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he shall in a few
days takethe liberty of waiting upon them and foiici-
Mng iheir support and protection.
N. B. Horses are properly prepared for those La
diesand Gemlcmeawho wish to be inftru£ted.
Nov. 5. ' tth&f(
Advertisement.
To he fold ut private sale,
A LIKELY strong bay HORSE, 5 yeirs
old, fit for the saddle. Also, a likely full
blooded MARE, 4 years old, runs well, and is
n'ow fit for the path— hey art lately from Vir
ginia, and may be seen at the ftaWes of James
M'Cawley, No. 45 in Cherry alley. Any per
son defirousto buy either or both, mult apply
to the owner, at Mr. Valley's corner of Cherry
alley and Fourth-flreet.
May n. 3t
LancaHer, Harrijburgh, Carli/le,
Sbtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requcfled to take notice, that
the partnership which has for some time sub
sisted between Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now diffalved ; but, not as M.
Slouch infinuatcs to the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je<& from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed neceflary. Any gentleman who wilhes to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal cf M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfe&ly juftifiable in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this bu&nefs, William Geer, in conjun&ion with
MefTrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined '
10 profecut* and carry it on, with every oare, at
tention anddifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
tender the passage fafe and commodious, inform
thofa wno wifb to patronize and encourage the *
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Hcrfe,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on everv Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippcnfburg. The fare as hitherto (
eftabliihed. 1
Pbr the further accommedation of the public, I
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house 1
of Samuel Elder, ih Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from thctce and arrive at Harrifburg
ey»ery Saturday, so that passengers destined for t
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon- 1
days. t
WILLIAM GEER.' t
Lancaster, Jan. 27, 1797.
N. B. This Line of Stages starts from thj -
house of William Ferroc, in Lancaster, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro- j:
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa- J
trick Cochran's in Shippenlburg, and returns
from thence ©n every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadel-
mwf
GOLD AND SILVER
Bullion. t]
THE highefi price in ready money will begi- tl
ven for gold or silver bullion, old gold or c
fiiver, or gold dull, at No. 29, North Seventh- V
street. I*
April 20 v Hwftw
A FEU'BOXES OF
Bologna Saufap.es,
Of a superior quality, to be So]d at Nq.
199, South Frout-Succt. pi
Aprilio, eotf
holders of Robert and john Ni-
X choifon's notes and acceptances, deposited as
collateral fecuritiesfor the engagements of Edward
Fox and JamefcGreenleaf, are requeued to
TAKE NOTICE
ie \ hat the fubfclribers, at the request and hy the
authority of the holders of near nine tenths oi the
amount of the papor above alluded to, have receiv
ed from George Simpfon, Efq an aflignmant of the
trust under which the laid note-*' and acceptances
are secured, together with all the deeds and obli
gations thereunto attached—-therefore any applica
tion for sale of any part of said propertyis to be
made to THOMAS W- FRANCIS,
nt HENRY PRATT,
JOHN MILLER, jun.
JOHN ASHLEY,
~ - JACOB BAKER.
March 2. m&lh f
.Notice.
April T,d. 1797-
THE Managers of the Canal Lottery, No.
11, an nounce to the public, that the
drawing will politively commence on the twen
ty ty-ninth of May next. Tickets to be had of
either of the managers, and at the Canal Office.
Wm. MOORE SMITH, Sec'y.
April 3 • mth, t29thM
A New Work.
PROPOSALS
For printing and publishing, by fubfeription, The
u History of Pennsylvania,
IN North-America, from the original institution and
settlement of that province, under the firft propri
etor and governor, William Penn, in 1681, 'till
after the year 1742; with
n AN INTRODUCTION.
Refpefting the Life of W. PENN,
Prior to she grant of that Province, and the reli
■l gious Society of the people called Quakers; with the
FIRST RISE if the NEIGH BORING CO IXJNIES,
■ more particularly ot WES T-NEW- JERSEY, and the
Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDES on DEL A
WARE.
To which is added,
j A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE.
And of the general date, in which it flourifbed,
I principally between the years 1760 and 1770. The
. whole including a variety of things, ufeful and in-
J terefting to be known, refpefting that country ineariy
9 time, See. With an appendix,
jj Written principally between the years 1776,' and 178©,
By Robert Proud.
e
>f •• Putchrum ejl benefacere reipublicce t etiam benedicere
haud ablurdum eft* vel pace vet hello clarum fieri licet'*
n sal. Catalin.
> w
* " Sed cum plerique arbilrentur res bellicas majores ejfe
quant urbanas, minuendaefi hate opinio.'*
Cic. Off.
(Entered according to law,)
" WILLIAM PENN, the great legislator of the
. Quakeri, (in Pennsylvania) had the success of acon
-8 queror, in establishing and defending his colony, a
mong favagetribes, without ever drawing the sword ;
n the goodness of the most benevolent rulers, in trea
s ting hisfubje&s as his own children ; and the tender
t ness of an universal father, who opened his arms to
y all mankind without diftin&ion ot fe£t or party. In
his Republic it was not his religious creed, but per
sonal merit, that entitled every member of society to
the prote&ioa and emolument of the State*"
EJfay on c Tolerat 'wn i by Arthur O^Leary.
CONDITIONS.
1. This work will be printed in two o£tavo vol
umes, neatly bound and lettered, both in sheep and
calf, for the choice of the fubferibers; on paper fimi
; lar to that of the conditions, aspubli/h&din theSubJcrip
j tion papers.
, 11. The head of William Penn, handsomely en
graved, will be prefixed to the firft, and a map or
sketch of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the
' second volume.
Ill* The price to fubferibers will be four dollars
and an half in sheep, and five dollars in calfone
dollar to be paid at the time of fubfciibing, two dol
lars on the delivery of the firft| volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery of the second.
IV. When one thousand copies are fubferibed I
for, the work will be out to press and finilhed with
all convenient expedition.
Subscriptions will be received by Zachariah Poul
fon, jun Printer, No. 80, Chefuut-ftreet, and at the
Philadelphia Library in Fifth-ftreet ; by Isaac Col
lins, Printer, and Joteph James, Merchant, New-
York; by John P..Plcafentsand George W. Field,
Merchants. Baltimore; and by other persons both
in town and country*
February 18. tu&f
To be fold or let,
And immediate pojfejfion given,
A genteel twb story Brick House ;
SITUATE on the upper end of Broad-street, io
the city of Burlington, with four rooms and
an entry on each floor, good cellars under the
whole, a pump in the yard, a garden and court j
yard, containing nearly half an acre under good <
ience, with a stable adjoining the yard. The ;
whole property is in good order.
For terms apply to the fubfcribcr in Burlington, l
who will give a credit for a considerable part of ,
the purchase money if good security is given.
William Coxe, jun. <
May 17. jawtf :
William Haydon,
Drawing Master, from London } 1
WHERE he studied several years under one i
of the most eminent mailers in that fci- t
ence. He attends young ladies and gentlemen c
at their refpeflive house*. His terms are fix t
dollars per month for attendance three times
per week; likewise all kind of ornamental r
painting, fruit, flowers, &c. taught on the above c
terms.
A line diredled to W. Haydon, No. 26, Pear j
street, will be immediately attended to. <i
W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will be par- t
ticularly advantageous, where there are several ,
pupils in the fame family ; as he makes no al- „
teration in his terms if there are two or three li
to teach in one family. _
May 9. j,
This Day is Published,
IIY MefT- Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
othei Booksellers,
rice One Dollar and twenty.five cents,
Elegant 'y printed on IVove paper, and Hot
preffed,
• 'By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF r
The Constitutions
Of the several States with ea,&h other, and with r'
I that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of each Conftitutioij, and
clafling together their most important provisions, T
under the several heads of administration; with j )(
Notes and Observations. r
By WILLIAM SMITH, j
Of Soutb-Cfimlins, L
L L. D. and member of the Congrcfs of the
United States. li«
Dedicated to the People of the United States. tii
N. B A few Copies printed on an inferior pa- &
per, at 3-4th*cf a dollar.
February 6 mwf
Imparted in the Jhip Pigou,
And for laic by John Morton, No. lib, South
Front-street,
II y Ton
HyfonSkin (-pEAS
le Young Hylon (
Imperial J
ie April 20. eotf
" To be fciold,
a- Tie time of a Negro Man,
>e "VTTHO has about fix years and an half to
VV serve. He is honoft and sober, a toler
able waiter, and under/lands driving a carriage.
For terms apply at No. 113, South Third
Street.
May 35. eoi!6t.
All persons who have any demands
Against the eflare of JBhn Finlay, deceased,
are rtquefted to exhibit their accounts proper
°- ly attefled on or before the 29th of May next —
ie and those who are indebted to said estate are re
n- quelled to make immediate payment to either of
the Subscribers.
e- ROBERT HENDERSON, 7 , , • „ ,
. JOHN M'CARA, \ Admmi/lrators
April 16.
Translations.
MEMORIALS, advertisements, epiflolary,
and (other writings in French and En
glilb, undertaken by Samuel Chandler, A. m.
translator of Le Monitcur, L'Obfervateur, Les
c Quatre Fils Aymons, L'Heroine Americain,
and many other French authors.
' S. C. has been in the habit of compiling for
the molt approved publications, & occafionallv
J attending where the hurry of bufmels may re
quire his immediate attendance.
Encouraged-and afiifted by gentlemen of
abilities, he proposes publifliing by fubferip
i- tion, a work in French and Eriglilh, by the
ie title of The American Spectator. The profpedl
>l us may be fee* at his lodgings, No. 6;, Arch
le Jlf:et.
April iy. j-
Benjamin tsf Jacob Johnson,
No. 147 Market Street, Philadelphia,
HAVEjuft received by the Connecticut and other
c late arrivals from Liverpool, a general assort
ment of well cholen
* Dry Goods,
For the ensuing Season, for sale on the lowest terms
lor calh or the common credit.
A large colle&ion of Books at their usually mo
derate prices*
c 4th month, 25th, 1797, tw&f4
To be fold at Public Vendue,
r ' To the highest bidder, at the houfc of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 15th
day of Oilober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M.
About seven thaufa ml acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
. lying betwmn Reifter's-town and Westminster,
; commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
. pike road runs through a considerable partlof
- these lands) the trait begins about 17 miles
> from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
1 of said Reifter's-town, and extends to the dis
tance of about twenty-three miles from Balti
' more, and lias on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in traits of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each trail,
I some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine grass.
ALSO,
. A trad of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
Bladenlhurg, esteemed very good for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby, of Bladenlburgh, will Ihew
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
also,
A traft of land of about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a half of the Prefvdent's house in the Fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpeit, from which may be fcen the
city of Walhington, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfon
by, of Bladenfburg, will alf» Ihew this land.
A liberal credit will be given for the greatest
part of the purchase money. The terms will
be made known on the day of sale.
May 8 W3m
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extrail of an ail passed by the Legifiature of
the state of Maryland on the 29th December, •
1791, entitled, " An ail for erecting a bridge
over Potowmac river. 1
'• And be it enaHed, that the said diredlors pr
any two of them lhall and may require any l'um 1
or sums of money in equal proportion from each 1
and every proprietor, as may from time to time '
be neceflary for carrying on the building of said '
bridge; and after giving three months public 1
notice, it lhall and may be lawful for the direil- '
ors tt> sue for and recover in the nam® of the J
company such unpaid requisition, with all colls :
and charges incidental thereto, and legal interest 1
thereon from the time the fame Ihould have !
been paid: And the negleil or refufal to pay any
such requisition after public notice lhall have j
been given at leall for three months in all the c
newspapers herein, before enumerated, fiiall have t
the effeit to forfeit all preceding payments made
on the (bare or lhares so negleiled or refufed to
be paid to the use and benefit of the company." (,
The above extract is published for the infor- c
mation of such of the stockholders as have not a
complied with the reqnifitions heretofore made
—they are as follow: On the ift November, -
1795, 30 dollars, on the 10th May, 1796, 40
dollars; an the 20th July, 1796, 40dollars j on
the ill September, 1796, 40 dollars, and on the
ift November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is
now given that after the expiration of the time C 1
limited for the continuance of this advertise- 0
ment (three months) the law will be carried |)
into rigid and complete efleil against all delin- r \
quents.
By order of the Direilors, 0
WALTER SMITH, Treasurer. f '
Georgetown, May 1, 1797. iaw3m
Lottery and Broker's Office, J
No. 44, South Second-street. 0
_ I
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale E
—TSis Lottery will positively commence I
drawing the 19th day of May next—Checkbooks A
for reeiflering and examination in this, the City
«f Walhington, No. 3, and Paterfon Lotteries, T
now drawing, are kept—also; information where
Tickets in Walhington, No. 3, and Patterfon may ' u
be had—Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery
for sale at ten dollars each, and as soon as issued
Ticketsin all the other Lotteries authorized by the' IN
Legislature of this (late will be for sale.
The 1 nWfcriber solicits the application of the pub
lic and hi* friends who wish to fell bank Hock, cer
tificates, bills of exchange or notes, houses, land
&c.or to obtain money on deposit of property ' m
WILLIAM BLACKBURN. ni
April 8. law
TEAS.
A FEW theft; of Imperial, Hyson Skin and
SoueJiong Teas of a superior quality for
sale at the store of the fubferiber, the north
west corner of Market and Third-flretts.
Patent Shot.
ALSO,
_ A large CELLAR to be let at a very low rent.
Enquire as above of -RICHARD WISTAR.
April 29. . ftu&ih im
r- For Sale,
e ' That well inoion place, called Vandegrift's
Fill Y,
ON Nefhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York poll road,
J s containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premifes are a large two Ifery stone house occu
' pied as a tavern, and a good one ttory stone kit
chen, a large frame liable with a good threshing
floor, and some out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
0 this place is a tnoft elegant fituatioa fora gentle
man's feat,,commanding a view of the Nefham
■j iny to its junilion wiih the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jerfcy shore. It has the privilege
_ of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Subfsriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
y- May 14. jtawtf.
n-
TOBESOLD,
And poffelfion given immediately,
Dr A Lot of Land ;
ly QITUATED in Mount-Holly, in the county
t- of Burlington, in New-Jersey, lately occu
pied by Francis Bullus, Esquire, upon which ara
5 f an excellent brick house, two fteries high, with
3 . four convenient rooms on each floor, also a good
, e stable, carriage house and other buildings. The
I. situation is valuable forbufinefs of any kind, and
j- at least equal to any other in the tow*.
The terms of payment will be made easy to
the purchaser. Apply to William RolTell, Esq.
uire, John Perry, or Richard Coxe, merchants,
in Mount-Holly, or to the Suhferiber, in the city
of Burlington,
rr JOSEPH M'ILVAINE.
t- Burlington, 37th April May s—Jjw5 —Jjw
Chocblate and Mustard
Manufactured as usual,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Barton Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
• or by the pipe, quarter-caflc or gallon —suitable
1 for exportation or home confumption—
-1 For Sale by
John Haworth.
No. 98 south Front street.
| May 18 th4w
[ City of Waftiington.
SCHEME
| Of the Lottery, No. 11,
| For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificentdwelling-houfe 40,000 dollars,
& calh 30,000, are jo.ooe
1 ditto ij.ooo & cafa 45,000 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & calh Ijtooo 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 io,oeo
1 ditto ;,000 & calh 5,000 to,ooo
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
I calh prize of xo,ooo
I do. 5,000 each, are • to,ooo
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
20 do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - . 10,000
300 dp. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. 35 - 10,000
1,000 do. 39 - 30,000
15,00© do. 10 • 150,000
16,739 Prizes. .
33,161 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour thofc whs may take a quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but onk :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
money or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not less than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be eredted in the City of
Walhington—Two beautiful designs are already
leieited for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawings it ispropofed to ereit ,
two centre and 'ourccrner buildings, as foonaspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the fchemc for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the neceflary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of 1
the fund intended for the National University, to :
be ereded within the city of Walhington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued At
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLOJOGBT. 1
,§. Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colum- ]
bia ;of James Well & Co. Baltimore; of Peter I
Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ; i
and of Richard Well?, Cooper's Ferry. f
mwf (
For Sale,
At the Oflice of the Gazette of the Usited
States, No. 119, Chefnut-llreet,
The lafi Report of the late Secretary
of the Treasury; being a brief history of the
state of financial concerns of the United States.
The Proceedings of the Executive
of the United States refpeiling the weftcrn in- '
furreilion : Containing many facls and cir
cumllances no whfre else to be found. 50
cents.
The Letter of Mr. Pickering to r
our minister in France. 371-1 cents.
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States for the year
1 795-
A few copies of the volume for 1794 may be
had to complete setts. o|
D'lvernois' account of the Revo
lution in Geneva". 12 i-i cents.
April 3. §
Mr. Pickering's Letter to Gen. "
Pinckney. er
m
A few copies of the above inter«fting paper, g'
may be had at the office of the Gazette of the U- n<
nitedStates.
May 13 5
✓
j TO BE SO L ti,
, A valuable three story Brick House ;
)r CITUATE in Lodge alley, next to thefcank of
O Pennsylvania, the lot on which it Aands, to
gether with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex
tt»ds to Goforth-ftreet. The house it about 50
feet in front on and about 42 feet
t in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet
front on Lod c -e alley, and 42 feet on Coforth
ftreet, being a street which lead* from Chefnut
ftreet and Carter's alley into Dcck-ftreet at the
horle market. The house consists of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dining
> s rooms, one of them forty feet in length, the
other about thirty-four feet, each containing
a . two fire places, two parlours and a large kit
r), chen, with extensive cellars under, and garrets
le over the whole, a privilege of a vacant lot
a- of ground lo the eastward between this house
t _ and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
g yard, a handsome piazza fronting the vacant
lot, and a frame liable and dwelling house on I
i n Goforth-ftreet. The premises now rent fbr '
e- £-3'B per annum. To tie fold clear of all in
cumbrances.
;e For terms apply to John Clement Stacker.
, e April 10 3 awtf
Maurice Moynihan,
No. 81, North SecondJlreet,
A few doors above Arch-street,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
for wholesale or retail, on the lowed terms, a
general afA-rtment ef Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
tumblers, plain and flowered quart, pint, half
gill and half gill do. exa& measures, decanters and
y wine glasses ; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint
1- bowls, and chi'a in sets and separate ; pocket
•3 bottles: Schuyikill and Jersey country quart and
h half gallon bottles; Dry Goods, &c. &c.
d N. B. Crates put up with cars at the ftiorteft no
ie ticc.
d May 11. d t f
,° Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
Company,
5 May 1/7, 1707.
THE STOCKHOLDERS
WHO are in arrears for any iums due on their
refpeiftive /tares, are requested to pay the
fame. l > -
WILLIAM GOVETT, Treasurer. 1
10 m4w
To be fold at private falc,
r A "fWO ft,ory dwelling house and lot of ground
fx. in the city of Burlington, slate of New-Jer
sey, in a healthy and pleasant fitoation. Tho
house is of brick,containing four good sized rooms,
I with a convenient kitchen and cellar. The lot,
" on which is a stable, &c. contains about an acre of
land of the bed quality, with a frent fufficient to
admit two 01 three large houfts, independent of
that part at present occupied by the house.
Feu further particulars enquire of Joseph M'll
vaine, Esq. in Burlington, or Joseph Reed, No,
214, High-llreet, Philadelphia.
May n. • coiw
This Day is publifbed,
By THOMAS DOBS ON,
At the Stone House, No. 41 fouthSecond-ftrcet,
Price 37 i-» cents,
Iwo Le&ures on Combujlion. .
OUpplementary to a courfeof Lectures onCHE
( O MISTRY ; containing an Examination of Dr.
Priestley's Considerations on the Doi9rin« of Phlo
( gifton, and the accompofit<on of Water
, By JOHN MACLEAN,
, Profeffor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy
( in the College of New-Jersey.
> Ma 7 41 mwfjp
; Venereal Complaints,
PUNCTUALLY attended to in every flage 0 f
that disease, without the use of mercury or
I restraint of diet, in any cafe recent and simple. on
( application at INO. 113, Chefnut-ftreet, opposite
1 the United States bank, or at No. 170, South Wa
, tcr-ftreet, between Spruce and Pine-ftaeets, where
, he has opened an office for the better accommoda
tion of his patients.
But in Lues Venerea confirmed, Do&or Morgan
pledges himfelf, that nofyftem of cure (howevsr
specious) can be effectual without mercury, and
that ail the known rules of pra&ice for tliele two
centuries pad, and united experience affirms, that
any substitute for it is but nagatory, and any mode
of practice to the contrary mat be futile and de
ceprious.
Nevertheless, he undertakes, however compli
cated the cafe, to effect a cure without inconve
nience or injury to the patient's constitution, and
in time n&t generally experienced orexpe<sted.
N B. Regular attendance at the office in Water
ftreet, from the hour of nine o'clock in the morn- |
ing until one, and from three o'clock io the even
ing until seven ; but any orhertimeat his dwelling
house, in Chefnut-ftreet.
May 16. dtf j
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sharehold
ers, that a further afleflfment of fifteen
dollars is levied on each share, payable in the
following instalments-—viz.
One quarter immediately.
One quarter on the ill of June.
One quarter ou the ift September.
One on the ill Dec. next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Trea
surer of the Company at the Company's Office,
No. 53 north Fourth street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed that on their negletfling- to pay the
fame as above dire<sVed, the leveral forfeiture*
dire&ed by the Constitution, willl be exatted
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARA-CHB,
Trtafurtr.
M »y fro
Gold and Silver Watches, A
OF an excellent quality, and neat fafhionali.-
Gold Chaips, SeaL, and Keys, Ei s ht Day
Clocks and Time Pieces, falhionablcStetl and Gilt
Chains, &c. &c. for Sale by I
, JOHN J. PARRY,
Clock and Wa'chmaker, No. 38. S. ad street.
Clocks and Watches of all kinds carefully
repaired.
1 9- tuef. & si. 3W
For Sale,
At this Office,
No. 119 Chefnul jlitel,
A few copies of a late Report of a Committee
of the Senate, on Uic fubjedt of the
GEORGIA LAN US.
March 13
Caution.
THE Public are hereby forewarned against
trusting the step-daughter of the Subscrib
er, and her mother, his second wife. Repeated
mifcondufl compels him to forbid any person to
give them credit on his account, as he will pay
no debts of their contracting after this date.
LUNO BROWN.
Philadelphia, May 16, 1797 18—fth3t