the & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1364.] SATURDAY EVENING, JANVARY ix, 1797. ' [VOLUME XI.
THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone Hoafe, No. 41, South Secondflreel,
Philadelphia, 1
HAS FOR SALE,
A large and rery general assortment of
-5 TA TI O NA R T.
Drawing and Writing Best and second Swan Quills
Papers. Black and red Ink Powaor
Antiquarian # Ditto Liquid Ink \
Double Elaphant Penknives
Atla.% Delk knives
Elephaut Superfine red and black Seal-
Imperial ing wax,
"Super Royal Belt vermilion and coloured
' Royal wafers
.Medium, Large and small office wa-
Demy lers
Thick Post folio Red tape broad, middling &
Thin ditto narrow
Extra thin ditto Elastic gum, in bettles or
Thi«*k Post Letter , pieces
Ditto plain Pounce
Ditto gilt ivory pounce boxes
Ditto lined Cocoa and bone ditto
Thin Post Ivory paper-knives
©itto gilt Black sand
Mourning -Sand boxes, japanned
Ditto plaia, or lined Lignumvitx and common
Bank Post Gunter's scales
Sniall Pofl " Brals dividers
Best EnglUh and American Leaden preflers
Foolicap, various qualities Black lead pencils
Superfine Pot sliding ditto
Second ditto Japanned card racks
Blossom and grey Blotting Writing parchment
Paßer " Ditto vellum
Wrapping paper Morocco writing desks
Letter silas and laces Spanifta tambour ditto
Paper cases, various sizes An elegant variety of cboay
Bonnet paft«?boards ink-fta»difhes
— middjing and small
-Merchants* Account Books, pewter ink ft^ndifhes
vis, Large, middling and small
ledgers, single or double, counting-house
ruled-for 1. s. d. or dolls. An elegant assortment of
£ & cents, ot Imperial or Su- cfrryftal and wood
per Royal, with or with- philosophical ink-pofrs
out cross linos Ink-glalfo , varions fizea
Journals, Day Books, In- Leather & paper ink-pisces
voice Books, Account cur- for the pocket
rent Books, Sales' Books, Small gilt visiting
' Letter Books, and K ccord Blank meflage-cards, large
Books, of Imperial, Su- and small, gilt and p'ain
per-royal, Royal, Medi-Boxes of marking-types for
um, Demy or Foolfeap, linen.
cross ruled or plain, —
Receipt Beoks Bills of lading, large 3c small
Bank Books Bills of exchange
Memorandum B«oks Elegunt copperplate ditto
Bill of 1 ading Books Cuttom-houffe entries
Bill Books, payable and re- Manifefts
ceivable Seamen's articles
Bank-Check Books, of viri- Blank bonds
ous lizes and for diiferent .udgmeiat bonds
jndgment bills
Cyphering and Copy Books Mortgages
Common, place Books Arbitration bonds
— Apprentice's indemuitfs
Best Dutch No. 1,2, Powers ol attorney
3, 4 and 5 Bank checks, &cl &c. &c.
December 17. S 6
Public Notice,
IS GIVEN, that 1 have applied to the J
judges of the Supreme Court of this state, to supply the
defeA in my Title to a lot of ground, situate on the* Weft
fide ©f Fourth-street, containing in breadth 20 leet, and
in length 5 6 feeti bounded Northward Weft ward, by
ground of the fubferiber, Southward by ground of Edward
$hippen, and East ward by Fourth-street, occasioned by
the loss of a deed from Timothy Harrington, John Lewis
and James Wal|ton, by their attorney Robert Mollyneux.
—All persons concerned, are required to appear before
two of the jjiftices of the said court, at the house of
Thomas IVS>Kean, esq. the Chief Jaftice of the state, on
the jtoth at 10 o'clock in the forenoon, to make their
. answer to the bill of the fubferiber, filed i in the office of
Edward Burd, esq. Prothonotary of the said court.
WILLIAM SHIPPEN, jun.
Philadelphia, January 6th, 1797. dt3oth
Wants a place, as Wet Nurse,
A woman with a good breast of milk, who can be
well recommended, Ist" further particulars enquire of
t hc Poster. Jan. 17.
FaRSALET"
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marfn
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennfylvanin, in
four separate Patents. For terms ot sale apply to
1 Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, Seuth S'cond-ftreet
Oflober 3f. mwftf •
■<£■ NOTICE.
THE Sales of LANDS of the United States, in (he
North-Western Territory, heretofore advertised
in the several publii papers, will commence this even
ing, atthe City Taverw to be continued from day
to day, 'till the tenth of February next, if not sooner
fold.'
January 4 §
Waftiington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be or
-exchanged for prizes, at the Olnce, No. 147, Chefnut
£rcet, where a correct Numerical Book is kept for public
infpe&ion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
changed for prizes di awn m the Waftiington Lottery, of
which the 54th and 55th days returns are received.
The Business of a Broker carried on as ulual.
January 12. ttstf
SALT PEt RE.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for '
sale at No. 25, South Third-street.
November 5. t
Boarding and Lodging
May l|e had at Na. 62, Per.n-ftrect, in a creditablc
family (
January 9
Particular Teneriffe Wine.
50 Quarter-caflcs Particular Teneriffe WINE,
Of a superior quality,
For Sale by
A. Mar pig iff Israel W. Morris,
No- 60, Dock-street. 3
January 11 t ts6
Cheap French China.
, THE iWbfcribers finding it impofiible to supply their
ft®re with any more China from France, the prices
being too immoderate in the manufadleries, give no
cise that they will fell at prime cost the remaining
fteck on hand, consisting of
Deflert Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
. Separate Cups and Saucers
<3roupes and Figurej
Alabafteir Vzfts '
Looking' Qlailis, in gilt frames,
Besides India Japan'd Toilet Defxe, Chairs, Tables
nad Quadrille Boxes. PASQUIER & Co.
No. 91, South Seeond-itreet.
jfch. tt
waxu'D; *
A MECHANIC, to eretSl Spinning and. Weaving
Machines by water, fueh as are used at my manufac
tory—Apply to JAMES DAVENPORT,
No. 401, North Front-street.
N. B. None need apply but a complete mechanic,
jnd a man of liability.
Glebe Mill, December 29, 1796. f
A CARD.
If Monsieur G. i/. S/jhl i,
Who left Bordeaux the 2®th June last, and arrived
at Boftoa about the middle of Aagoft, in the schooner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is requeued to call en
Jiifeph Anthony & Co. No. 5, Chefnut-flroet, who
will give him some iaforraation of importance.
Decfwtber 34, 1796. ' J
For Sale,
Two Convenient BRICK HOUSES,
Three ltories r6 feet front, and 40 feet deep
eaeh, and adjoining ; situated on the east fide of Front,
between Race and Vine-streets ; Nos. 161 and I'tfjV
They will he fold on very reafenabl# terms, either
feparitely or together. Apply to
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
January 13 dzw
LOS T,
On the Road between this city and Baltimore,
A black leather POCKET-BOOK,
Containing sundry papers valuable only to the.owner,
also between three and fAur hundred dollars. Whoever
has found the fame, and will leave it at the office of
the editor No. 119 Chefnut ftrect, with the contents,
particularly the papers, ihall be handsomely rewarded,
and no qucltions asked.
January 17.
FOR sale,
The fa/!-failing schooner ORION;
Seventy tons burthen ; fifteen months
—../CTffry. —t, old ; her frame in of the best ©f white
oaL : Ike ,• a faithiuj. built veflel, handiomely finifhed off
and well lound in every particular ; is .ready to receive a
cargo on board, and can be put to sea without any ex
pence on her hull, fails or rigging : fhc fiowsiii hu-uJruti
barrels ; has a handsome caflin and a half
deck which will itow from feventy-iive to eigh y barrels;
has beeft newly epfHlkod, graved riM painted. For »ei m«
Wr to , BSNJAMIN RHODES,
At No. 170, cornoc of larkc: ar,d Fifth-ftreetj,
Or to the Captain on board said schooner at Mtffrs.
Willis and Yardfley's wharf, adjoining Chcfnut-ftreet
wharf; where there is for sale
Excellent pickled Salmon in barrels,
the best of American Mess Beef, and some very excellent
Boston manufa&ured Chocolate.
26
£g&sk F°r Sligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship Nanct,
t _ Cuthbert Riggs, master.
w Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or paflage apply to
William Bell ;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottsns, well aflorted
3 Bales, Irish Flannels, and 2 boxes Linens
25 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Ruflia Matts,
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, 1796, mwftf
FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP MART,
®AMU£L PARKER, Master,
Two hundred tons burthen. Applyto'
,r v JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
the MAR 1 is not fold in a few days, ihe will tak
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
o<3ober 31. j
For Sale, or Charter,
#g£L The Ship DIANJI,
WWztWA Samuei - Pile, Master,'
Burthen ioj 47-95 tens register, built in
wl%&£St*%P Philadelphia in the year 1792, of live oak
and red cedar, and was iheathed 13 months ago, Ihe
has just had a compleat out-fit, and may be sent to fta
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin £5° Co.
IVho have for fate on beard said vejfel,
27 casks of fine yellow paint.
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing slates.
1 box ink stands and note prefles.
14 hales of fail canvass.
And on hand,
Imperial
Hyson, and, >■ TEAS.
Souch®ng J
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the ftrft qaalky. ,
19 tnbs Quicksilver.
s cherts Bandanno handkerchiefs. ,
A few chests Manchester goodswell alTorted in Cor- ,
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muiinets, Dimities, &c.
3 boxes black sewing silk. I
IKO crates Queens ware well aflorted. £
10 tons sheet lead.
Nails aflorted, flat 3nd (harp points.
London Particular,
London Market, i Madeira Wme ir.pipes
New-York Market, ) 3 " d hoSftcads
-40 pipes and 10 hogsheads Teneriifc wine,
8 tierces Snake Root.
230 logs Mahogany.
Nov 7. wth&ftf
bajll.
New Cotillions,. Scotch Heels, and Contre Dances*
Meflrs. Fraosis snd T>v r.e beg leave to inform their
. scholars) friends, public in general, that their
firft fiatl for this f.-aftn will be on Tuesday, th ;4,at
• o'Eller»'» p*" ?jnb iy-f.r.n.j at which a variety of new
Contr? Dinoes, and the raoft cilebritc"
Scotch Reels, will be introduced.
Mefirl fWM* and Byrne propose to give graisitoss
attendance at tjeir r Uool room, for the io .'traction of
these Ladtes and Gc-otieroen in their new !aiic«. «< n »;
mean to honer tlie ia!l room with ibeiY prefcnce,—at- j
teadanctf for th:s jjiifpmc after their f'ci.swi heur», on '
Tueidayj, and Tkorfdays. , .M.
Tickets to be #f Meflrs."Fr r-ces and.Uyrne No.
70,' North. Eight street, or at ;ul. La
dies arc retjuefted to apply to their femije f; iends, .
feholars of Mtffii, F. & B. or, aa above, at-tr.eirrefi
dence.
N. B. The new dances wilfcliot infringe upon the j
ufaal routHfe of the evening.
The day«of teaching for their young pupils are Thurf
days and Saturdays, from three o'alock in the afternoon
till fix— and on Tueldays Sc Thnrfdays, frbm fii till nine,
for tho£s of a more advanced age.
*4* Private tuition as tifual.
January n, 179.7- aawt2*.
ON TUESDAY NEXT WILL BE PUBLISHED,
Porcupine's j
POLITIGAL CENSOR,
Fo*i December, 1796.
CONTAINING
Remarks on the Debates in Congress, particularly
on the timidity difc&vered by the House ©f Represen
tatives in their language towards the infolsnt French
Atso,
A Letter tQ-ths infamous 7*qm Paine,
In answer to bis brutal attack on the ckaradier and
Gonduft cf General Wafiiifl^ton.
January to.
Frejh Harden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Rsots, isfc. £sV.
Thfc day landing frqm the ihip Eagle, captain Fofdici 1 ,
from London,
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut a»d
A met capital and txttnfive Assortment of i
GAROiiN, GRASS and tfLOWER-i>EEI>S,
ROOTS, See. Sic.
Among which are,
Fine kind* Asparagus Three kinds Creffc«
lour Bcrecok Twelve Onion
Twenty-five Beans Thirteen Radifli
Six Beets Fifteen Tnrnip
Eleven Brocol. Fifteuft Peas
Twemy-fuc Cabbage jsix Savoy
Cam r, Four Parfnir .
Three Cauliflower! Twenty-three Melon
Five Celery Twenty-one Lettuce
Ten Cucumber
- Common and lemon Thyme /
Curled lsal and if rigged Parsley
V Pot M*ry e old Pot Marjorum
he Mangel Wurtzel j
Leek Kail Shallow
Rape Seed Rye Grass l §aint Foin Lucerne
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. &c.
With a curious collection of the most efteeined
FLOWER-SEEDS aud RQO I'S,
Being the moll extensive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Seedfraan in London, and
are warranted fre til and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17 g$
In order to eomp/y ivljk conlrafit, 1 will fill, for
appneved Lands, on 3 equal annual payments,
A Square of LOTS,
At the upper end of Fredericlklburg, beginning op
polite to the lower corner of- DoiJtor Wellford's, on
Caroline-flreet, and ruining up« to the cross street
leading to Fitzhugh's ferry, and from thence back to
Sophia-street. This fqnare I have laid off into 24 lots,
27 and an half feet front, and 122 back, 12 ®n Caro
line-ftrect, and, 12 011 Sophia-street. Nine of those
oja Caroline-street I have l«afed on an annual ground
rent of 3 and 10 pounds, to the araonnt of 74 pounds,
and the vacant lots a purchaser could enhance the value
of by building frnall honfea, which will as readily
procure tenants as pots or goards will Martins in the
spring, and yiel-3 a greater profit in proportion to
their coil than large bniidittgs., Those who incfine
to purchase ir.fy know the terms by applying to
HENRY FITZKUGH.
Beli-Air, Doc. 8, 1796. 7thJ.d4W^
THE SUBSCRIBER
WISHES to afeertain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer, J
who quitted Ireland in 1783, or 178 a, and same into
this Country, ('tis fuppefed to Phihdalphia) about
four finse, be Sving or dead. As this intelli
gence is of the highest importance, it will be thankful
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS,
• No. 313, High-street
December jl. w &sim
Bank of Pennfylvani-a,
January 4, 1797. '
At a meeting of the Directors th ; s day, a dividend of
lixteen dollars on each ikjre was declared for the Lilt
6 months, which will be paid to the Stockholders af
ter the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cashier.
J"- 3- dtf.
The Elephant, J
Now exhibited, was bought for Ten Thoufaud i
Dollari.
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet. ]
h ■ eats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of t
water ; he has drank some days forty bottles of porter, c
drawing the#orkj with Lis trunk.
He is parfeftly inoffenfive; travels loose, at the *
rate of five miles an hour, and is the grcateil curiosity
ever brought to this Continent.
He is to be feeri 'till the 15th of January- in
Market-street between Third and Fourth-streets, at I
a quarter of a dollar, that every one i»ay fee him— a
after which time the former price of half a dollar will
be resumed.
He will leavn Philadelphia as soon as the weather
will permit.
December 31 d r
Elegant Brussels & Turkey Carpeting, J
For sale by George Dobfon, Ne. 25, South Third-ftrcct. r
Decemb«r 15. dtf
. M*s. G RAT JA N
Rcfp?&fr.i!£- Informs her frieiids, arid the public in
i" geneVal, that on Ttiefday the irthdayof January,
ihe propoies opening, at No. 39, North SL>;?h
ftr&et,
A Linen and Mufiin Warehouse.
Book Mu'flins, from 6/3 toti/ii per yard
J.-.conct ditto, from 8/5! to fJH per'tard
1 Stripe J ditto, from 7/10 to lofto per .yard
j Fiije GolTaes
j Tamfeonr'd Book Mufiin?, from 13/9 to 21/ per yard
! India MuJiii, from 11/3 to ij/ p£r yard
j Sheeting Muflit
jsconet iwuflin Handkerchiefs, frem 4/3 to 6/per hdkf.
Book muslin Handkerchiefs from 5/5 to 10/6 ptr fcdkf.
. Mufiin eolor'd and !iorder'd Handkerchiefs ,
I Dacca Handkerchiefs
Tamb»ur'd Cravats from icfß to lift I
1 Pocket Handkerchiefs
1 Cambric, from 11/3 to ifyj per yard
Table Cloths j
HuckabuckTowelling
Women's Cottoa H®fe, from Cfe to 13/ per pair
Dimity fr»m 5/10 to tyii
Men's Silk Hose
1 atuhourM raaflin Handkerchiefs from lifil to \}ft
trifh linens for Gentler* en's Shirts, from 5/5 to ;.y~7
And a variety of other articles.
N, B. Orders received for ail kinds of ready n;adc
Linen, Gcntlemes s Shirts, r r Sic J or plain, Cravats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, &c. &e.
Houfhold Linen, &e. & c#
A plain ihirt, made ..nd mark'd, 3 1-2 dollars.
A full ruffled «itK>, 4 dollars.
A plain (hirt, mode ard oiark'd, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled uitto 6 dollars
( A plain ihirt, made and marked, 5 1-2 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain shirt, made aadmark'd, i dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 1-2.
' A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 4-2 dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Lined, included.,/
JannaTT 13. §
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRS J' & 2d proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in crfssof 40 dozen each
Glafe Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, cf different lizes
Hazlenuts, in f'atks
Whiting
Copperas ( . ~ ,
White Lead f ,n hhds
4c Spaniih Brown J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 J
For sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
'Nova-Scotia Prime Salinon, in barrels
and halt barrels
Ditte Herring and Mackare).
Smoaked Herring ia barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or (ingle one
Dry Cedfifh, frfim one to fifty kentals
Fine and ooarfe Salt
Noto-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the stone
and ground, for manure and ftucco-wark
Daseoiber 1 !.
Wm, Holdernesse, No. 76,
H IGU-STREET,
Has received by the late arrivals,,
A WtH Seiicied A S SOR TMEKT of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdaftiery Goods,'
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, on the very
lowest terms ;
Amongji which are
Some elegant and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns 1
Ditto Furniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muflin#
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft .quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
, Hmbrellaij of the firft quality, offdrted
Lrtfh Liiions, very fins, and Table Linens
MarfoiHes and Cotton Counterpanes
Rofc Blankets afforted—&c. Stc.
0 (Sober' 26. d
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE AND PRICE,
No. 79, Markkt-str-eet, Philadelphia,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, j large aflbrtment »f WARRANTED
WA'i CHE S, esnfifting of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with seconds, of superior
workmanship and elegance ; also eapp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd &jewell'd, capp'd,
seconds, day of the month, and plain Silver Watches;
eight day & chamber Clocks.; elegant French Clocks
with marble frames ; eight day and thirty homr, brass
I works, &c.
Deeembet 22, 1796. d2m
WM. HAY DON,
Drawing-Master, from London,
Where he has Audied several years under one of
the most eminent mailers in that science, attends'
young Ladies aad Gentlemen at their refpeifHvehomes.
His terms are 6 dollars per month for attendance three
times per week. Likewise all kinds of ornamental
Painti»g, Flawers, Fruit, &c. taught on the above
terns. A line dire&ed ta W. H. left with the Editor
of this Sazette, will be immediately attended,to.
Januaryi'3. eo2W
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South Fourth Jlreet,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
and begs leave to iolicit a continuance of their favors.
He has <*1 hand an extensive assortment of the
Most Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the best quality, suitable for the season.
At this ihop Gentlemen can be furniftied withthe baft
materials, and have them made up in the ntateft and molt
Fashionable manner, and on the shortest notke. He will
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt aad
psn&ual to them.
November 19. wsNew Theatre.
*s
THIS EVENING, Saturday, January IT,
Will be presented,
A TRAGEDY, (not ailed these. two years) called
Venice Preserved;
Or, a Plot Discovered.
Duk« of Venice, Mr. H'arrell
Priuli, Mr. Warren
Brdamar, Mr. Fox
Pierre, Mr. Cooper
Jaffier, Mr. Moreton
Rennault, Mr. V Eft range •
Spinofa, Mr. Darlev,'jun.
Elliott, Mr. M'Donald
Theodore, Mr. Eliffett
Officer, Mr. Wdrrell, jun.
Belvidera, -Mrs. Merry
After which will be performed, by the French Com
pany, a Comic-Opera, in one a£t, called
Le Tableau Parlant; A
Or, The Speaking Pi&ure.
The music by mons. Gretry.
Caffandre, M. Viellard
Leandre, M. Glaire
Pierot, M. St Mare '
Ifabelle, Mile. Sophie
Colembine, Mils. Tejfeirt
0- On Monday, The ROAD TO RUlN—with
The FLITCH OF BACON, in which mr. Prigmore
will nuke bis firft appearance at this theatre.
£!T Box, One Dollar cents. Pit one Dollar,
And Gallery, half a dollar.
£3" Tickets to he'had at H„ & P. Rice's tiook-ftore
No. 50 High-flreet, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
Places for the Boxes to ne taken at the Office in the
front of the theatrfc, from 10 till 2 o'clock, and from
lo till 4 on the days of performance.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their
servants.to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and
to order them, as soon as the company are feafed, to
■withdraw, as they cannot on any account he permit
ted to remain. '
VIVAT RESPUELICA!
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
Mr. F E N N E L'L
Relpeitfully informs the Public, that '
THIS EVENING, Saturday, Jan. 21, at 7 o'c-lock
Will be delivered,
(first part)
On the Means of Improvement in Oratory, includ
ing feltsiflions from Dr. Blair.
(second fart) 4
Satan's Address to the Sun, Milton.
Anthony's Speech on the BoiJy of Julius
Csefar, Shakespeare.
Anthony's Funeral Oration, Shakespeare
(third part.)
Hamlet's Soliloquy oil Death, Shakespeare.
Cato's -Soliloquy on the Immotiality" of
the Soul, Addifon.
Ode on the Passions, Collins.
—— V
£5" On MONDAY, January 23d,
SeltiSions from History.
Edwin and Angelina.
Gray's Elegy ; and
Part of the Deserted Village.
Tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfon, jun. at the Library ;
at mr. M'Ebvee's looking-gtefs-ftore, No. 70, S. Fourth
ftreet; and at Mr. Carey's, Bookseller, Market-flreet—
Half a dollar each.
Admiflion tickets for Children (a quarter of a
dollar each) to be had at either of the above place?.
Notice.
THE Advertiser is a person regularly bred, and has
carried oa in an extensive manner for these 30 years
past, the various branches of Goldsmiths' and Jew
ellery, plaied and hard-ware Cutlery, and Ironmonge
ry business, and haj general knowledge of the Dry
Good and many other businesses. He has a particular
taftc for building, has built extensively for himfelf,
has condafted buildings for others, and is of opinion
that his lervices to auy gentleman that might be in
went of a person to condufl any of the aforel'aid busi
nesses, would not onlj- be ufeful but an acqmfition, as
he will engage, ou liberal terms, either as a falsfman
or tc fell on commiflion as an agent, afl as a partner or
take the care of a manufactory, or fupcrintepd build
ing;, &c. He is a married man, and having no family
but his wife who v. ouldaft as a saleswoman or houle
" keeper.. No objeilion to auy part of the Southern
lutes, or to take a voyage to Europe as a fupereargo.
AJiitc direfled to j. C. to the care of the printer,
will be punflually attended to.
N. B. He is well acquainted with moll of the Eng
li(h,lrifh, and Scotch manufactories, as he carried on
business for ten years ill London, but; od account of
unavoidable.misfortunes in his country, he is now for
ced to seek for a living for himf If and wife in this
way, and he flatters himfelf that he will £iv«/ entire
f»tisfai?.ion to his employer. And as he is well known
in this city, and to the msft char/<3«rs on
the continent, doiibts-not but his cluraAer, morality
and indefatigable industry, will bear the ftrldleft en
quiry
Dec. 18. Tawtf
„ «r — — ;
A Watch Loft.
Loft 011 Monday last, a Silver Watch, makers' namesi
" ll.fuxhiiift and Donlt 309," on the face,
1 our .hand in a small circle ; the minute hand revol
viir;, in a larger- Whoever has found and'will return
the lame, to J..Mt!5 EiiGEh, corner of Second and Ca
tharine Streets, ft all receive Ten Dollars reward. If
fw fale,itis rtquefiul it may be flopped.
January; 18. *jt
' A Pointer found.
Any person having loft a small POINTER PUP
PY about a fortnight since, may have him again by
I roving property and paying charges. Apply to the
PriiiUr.
January 10 .3 ,
CONGRESS OF 'THE UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, January 4, continued.
The report of the committee of Ways and Means
011 the fubjeft of the balances due from indivi
dqal States to the United State* being under con
_ fidcratioru
Mr. Williams recapitulated what he had before said
on the fubjeft of emigration, and infilled upon the rfif
advantage it was of to them in the settlement.
Mr. Gilbert said, before the queltion was finally
taken, he wa'f dlfpofed to make a few obfervatioas
more 011 the fubjeft, though he did uot know that
he should fnggelt any new arguments. From the
apparent disposition of the committee, frpm their
r#fufal to grant any time as requafted by the debtor
Hates, that Mey might be enabled to convince the
Hotife of the iujudice of this claim against them,
{he said) lie could entertain but little hope of suc
cess, by any argument or consideration with the
committee ; he (hould, however, as a duty he owed
ta the general sense of mankind, as well as to his
immediate constituents on that lubjedV, proceed in
| a summary juray to examine Jtirther into the merits
I and propriety of the refolutioa before them, and
fuhmit certain considerations resulting from the
fabjefl, to the reflection of' those who were dif
poled to consider them.
The resolution, be said, was in effect, afTerting a
claim, by the United States, to those balances
againlt the individual liates, and making solemn
demand oflhem for the payment. It would there
' fore be proper, he said, to examine the fubjeft, in
order to be clearly fatufied, against all objections,
'that this was a jujl and righteous claim. And in
his opinion, Mr. C. said, the present was the pro
per m«ment, notwithstanding the opposite feuti
ments exprefled by some gentlemen, for makinjA
the enquiry and ascertaining the important fadL
It would be remembared, he said, that when
Congress m?de provifian to pay the balances claim
ed by the creditor dates, about three years agoj
the fubjeft of these corresponding balances was
prcfented to the consideration of that House,
and underwent a particular animadversion and dif-
It would be recollected how solicitous the
creditor states then were to secure from the.United
Statej provifian for their claims ; and how far they
wese, at that lime, from Hrging or even proposing
the idea contained in the present refeltitioo, ofex
•aQing these balances from the individual states. It
would also be ree»lle&ed by many who were then
present, he said, that certain gentlemen frojn those
states, favoured the opposite idea in behalf of the
debtor states—that one ef the commiflicners em
ployed in the settlement of the accounts, and then
a member of that House, and who, he said, from
his intimate knowledge of all that bulinefs, was
better acquainted with Its nature and merits than
any other member, explained it, and in order to
prevent any measure like the present, proposed a
relinquifhment of all such claim on the ground of
justice, policy and equity. It would also be recol
lected, he said, that it was considered at that time,
by certain gentlemen of the creditor states, that
such lelinquiftimeot ought to be made; and that it
was particularly so contended by one of those gen
tlemen, then very adtiveas well as eminent en this
floor, and now of the Senate—that this geutleman
considered the law prefenbing the mode of settle
ment and rule of apportionment (and he was one
of the makers of it) no more than 1 an artificial ar
rangement for effecting a final settlement and quie
tus of that difficult business—which con(tru£tion,
Mr. G. said, derived great strength from the a£t
itfelf, as well as from other confiderations—for it
was remarkable, he said, that the a£t prescribing
the mode of settlement, without expreffiug any
thing as to exaflting payment from the individual
states, against wl»m balances should be rendered,
cantains express engagement that prorifion should
be wade, by Congress, for the payment of such ba
lances as should be rendered in favor of individual
states. This remarkable omifiion and fiienie of
the aft rtfpe£ting the debtor states, feemcd to him,
he said, strong evidence that no such thing, as now
contended for, was then coinempla'cd. It it true,
said Mr. G. that no such relinquifhment was then
made; but it i» equally true, that after provision
was made for the creditor states, pursuant to the adt
of settlement, no .motion or idea like the one corf
tsined in the resolution before us, was offered ; and
j t,hat, the impreflious arising from the con
| liderations then suggested, it seemed to him, and so
;he had beett, he fafd, in fact assured by others, that
1 no fiich cljl.ii, as the present, would ever be af
j ferted.
! In addition to these obferrations, in reference to
the former impressions entertained upon the lubjeft,
Mr. G. laid, he /hould be glad to fee on what ba
sis this claim agaiijft the individual Ita'.es rcfted, and
whether it were fohd or net. When he contem
plated the state of thiftgs nnder the »ld fabrick of
confederation, lie could find he said, no principles
contained in that? com past, to warrant the course
and proceeding adopted, in refpeft to the settle
ment of those accounts, by the present government.
He could perceive 110 fort t»f provision ji\the new
con ft it ut ion, by which cohgrefs could derive, ores
ercife any power of arranging and dire£ting the
mode of settlement in the manner they had done ;
and although such proceeding, so far as it, related to
the United States only, might be proper aqd found,
if they contemplated a mere artificial arrangement,
for ascertaining and fettling all accounts, andqui-""
etting those who were creditor states ; yet if they,
intended by such mode of proceeding, to exaiEt the
balances which should be rendered against individu
al (tales also, the procetfding anf) a£t of congtefs as
to their binding influence on individual states, he
considered (he said) quite unconstitutional and nu
gatory. And this consideration also, he said, cor
roborated th<f conftrudtion whish had been made,
that the law us the United States prescribing the
mode of settlement, was but an artificial plan, for
aecomplifliirig an easy and final close of that bttfi
nefs.
To avoid the force of ftiph übje£tion, as wtll as
all other exceptions, belaid, it had been urged and
refptikd, that the settlement had been the relult
of an aibitration between th_- ftat/s, and that this
was the filial award, as repotted by the commifii
oners. But where fir, he asked, was the evidence
>.f such arbitration among the parties ? Where are
their submissions to befaund. He said he had ne
ver seen any- Certainly th« legislature of the U-
Rited States would not he said, consider their own
a£ts competent to such and arbitration,
as must bind all the individual states, uulefs there
was. eXpVefs power given them by the conftitutian
fijr such aft of legislation. Certainly he said, it
was not pretended, that conprefa had any special
delegated authority from the individual" llates for
tha* proceeding. Admitting however, that con
gfefj had been specially authoriz-sd to adt on that
fubjeft by way of 'arbitration, yet he said, palpa
ble error, or mistaken principles tending to an une
qual result, without any frgud or fault in any party,
and much more so, when the unfair com'uft and ex
travagenee of a parry contributed to such result,
would always nullify the award. • On the ground
therefore, of arbitriment and award, he said, the
claim mult alio tail.
The principles of the extraordinary mode of f«t
tlement, the unequal rule of apportionment, their
application.to New-York, with theit unequal epi
lation and effects, he said, had already been fully
explored by hii colleagues as well as himfelf, to the
committee, and therefore needed not again to fee
fpecified.
When we take a retrofpeflive and compara ive
view of the efforts and conduct of the feveraf ftntes
during the revolutionary war, anjl compare it'with
the statement of accounts made by the (.ovnmiflioß
ers, and fee the enormous sum placed against New-
York, far beyond the amount »f all the sums pla
ced against other states ; at firft blush he said, all
would be convinced, (except those who intended
not te be) that the settlement must have been une
qual, and if f« found a claim against the ttate, ve
ry unjulf. He had said it before, and he said he
would here repeat it, that he did not think there
was a member on that floor, who -w3s acquainted
with the whole btifinels, how gravely soever he
might affe& to think otheiwife, that could in his
confcienec believe the statement made against New
York to be the result of a fair equal adjustment.
In that settlement, he said, was found, (and that
under direction and fan&ion of the law) that while
no charges by New York had been made againlt the
United States, but for general defence, and autho
rised service Jlridty vouched ; there had been allow
ed in favor of other states,, charges and claims of
all forts, as well for private as for general defence,
for unauthorised as well as authorised Services, and
all these whether vouched or not. Was there ever
said he, such an inequality heaid of ? He believed
not. This circumliancc however, afforded convic
tion to his mind, he said, that what had been here
tofore urged, was true, tw wit—that congress canfi
dered it but an artificial arrangement.
For (he said) a these things, with the unequal
rule of apportionment must, and moft»certaiuly
yvere foreleen, it weuld rat otherwise be explained
or accounted for, at this day^—and thetefsre (he
fajd) he gave it that conftrudtion, which alane it
would coujlitutionably and rationally bear ; and
some »f riiefe, who were makers of the law* de
clared was its only intent and meaning. To for
tify this conclusion the more, (he said) he fhauld
present another view of thefuhjeft resulting from
the change of politicalfituation, which he thought
defeived feriaus confidcration.
It seemed to him (he said) that gentlemen mis
took the state of things in refpeft ta. the United,
and the individual states, and confounded themselves
with those local feelings and dilpofiti».ii so predo
minant under the old confederation. Under the
old fabric (he said) each state stood alone clothed
with all the right»-u£-fc>vereignty and means of re
venue. The United States who had incurred this
debt, were refj-ouirbie for its payment, without
the power or means to difchargc it—To remedy
this defedt, to give all power and means to the U
nited States requisite to fatisfy this debt, and pro
vide for all other exigencies, and to meet all oc
currences, a new compact was formed and lyftcm
adapted. To effect this purpofc, the individual
states ceded great portions of their sovereignty and
all their principal means ef revenue. These ces
sions were more ar less impßrtant to the United
States (be said) according ta the magnitude and
peculiar lucxl Jxtuation as the state. The cessions
made By New-York in-this refpeit, if not equal
or superior toar.y other, were (he said) of gteat
er value than ftidfe of .one halt of all the other
states in the Union, and served to afford ta the
United States mere a&ual current revenue. And
yet so little grateful or imprefled with manly re
fpeil for the boan, in which they ali participated
alike, (he said) thert,*feemed a mntradmg levelling
defpotilin that was not to be fatisfied, so loßg as
that state was luppofed to be more wealthy than
ftime of her neighbors. He hoped however (he
said) that liberal feelings and candid reflection on
this fubjeft, would discover the injuilice, the Im
.propriety of asserting this claim against the indi
vidual states ; and that a due confidcration of po
licy and of justice, in reference to the mode of
settlement, and lii-fegard to the conftitutionajity
of the, la vr p efc ibing it, as well as tHe political !
change in the arrangement of the government of
the United States and th? great resources of reve
nue ceded by individual states, when feiioufly con
templated with all the probable cenfequences re
sulting from this proceeding, would restrain the
committee from adopting the resolution piopofed
and induce them to abandon the projedt, as unjuit
and eppreffive, cantrnry to the Spirit and meaning
of the law, as well as the constitution of that go
vernment—But if they were inclined (he said) to
adopt it, in order to hear what the states had to
allege against the demand, he was confident New
\ ork would be able to offer good and Sufficient
reason, to (hew that the claim against her was un
just and ill founded and ought not to be.exa&ed.
[To be Continued.]
WAITED, .
A middle-aged Woman Servant,
Who is a goed Sieamftrefs, and capable of.taking
some charge in a family. None need apply Without
good i«umm«ndatjons. Enquire at No. 88, Spruce-ft,
FHILADELP HI A,
SATURDAY EVENING, JANUARY ai, 1797.
Died on Wednesday morning last, at Burlington,
New-Jersey, Richard Brooke Roberts, lifq. of South
Carolina, Major of Infantry in the fervicc of the United
States.
Meflrs. Wignell and Reinagle, Managers of the
New Theatre, have put i«to th« hands of the Mayor
of this City, ttoo hundred and forty-fix dollars and
fifty-five cents, for the benefit of the fufferers by the
late fire in Savannah.
COMMUNICATION,
%
The Aurora it angry beeaufe writers in England
fj»eak with refpett of the President's valedictory—
beeaufe they derive from it texts of political wjj".
dom, and apply them 16 their own affairs—beeaufe
they barrow strength from I hat name which it,i#
the pride of all good men here to believe will L.e im
mortal; and beeaufe tbey use that lirength agamlt
the enemies of the human race—call them jacobins !
Men abhorred by all the friends of liberty & jaw—
Hrangled by the very mother who boie them—a
felon race who have found in the Botany bay of fomc
of our cities a refuge from the whips of their native
country. Formerly, convi£ts, when they did come
among us, rej^eneiated—a murderer, lung inured to
humility and hard laoor, repented and reformed ia
a scene that was aufpicieus to human nature—
The crimes of men were then perpetrated or, a small
fcale—collediive murder—butchering en mafTe wa»
not knowh. The wish of the flagitious Roman ty
rant, was the ridicule and the horror of the school
—The harr:ble grime -of jaeobiniini was unknown.
DOCUMENTS
Which accompanied thevnieflage of the President of
the United States to both Houses of Congrei's,
January 19, 1797.
Letter to Mr. Pinckmy, Mirujler Plenipotentiary of
the United States to the r'rench Republic.
Department of State, January 16, 1797.
SIR,
In ray letters ef the sth and 26th u!t. I feat you
two Notes from Mr. Adet, the Mi liter of ,ie
Frenvh Republic to the United States ; the to m
er dated the 27th of Oitoher, and he latter the
15th of November lalt; and my infwer to the
firft. The latter note embracing nUrr.eroiu topic*
of complaint, and going as far bai.k as the year
1793, required a particular examination ail the
tranfafiions of our government from that time to
the preffint. The other iiidifpqttfable duties of the
office prevented tny entering on this examination
as early as I had expected, and she current bnfi
nefs has retarded the pursuit. The result of this
examination 1 am how, by the dircftion of the
Prelidcnt ps the United States to communicate to
you. This history of out affairs you will tmi sup.
ported by documents, many of which were deliver
ed to you at your departure, and the relidue will
be herewith tra«fmitted. The remarks and reason
ings on fadh you will duly appreciate ; aad, from
the whole,joined with your own obfervation6, yoa
will be enabled, it it believed, to vindicate the li
nked States, and to their impartiality
as a neutral nation, their fidelity in the oldlervatiori
of treaties, and their fricndlliip as an ally.
Ihe difcuiDon on which I am entering will in*
volve much repetition ; for tkegeneral queftioimand
particular cales grouped together i h the Mini tier's
last note, have been fubjetis of controveify and
correfpondeuce from May I 793 to this dav. Some
Other points have indeed-feeen contended for, which
the Minilter has now without notice. Why
they ate omitted I know not ; for in these cases
the United States were as ppfitively charged with
violating treaties as in those which he has been
pleased now to detail. Some ol thwm it may be
fouud proper to introduce, to render less imperfect
the view of our relations to France.
The complaints of the Fr'ench minister against th«
United States, have reference ta three principal
iubjc&s. 1 ft. lo the abandonment of their neu
tiai ri'hts to the injury of France,-in not maintain,
ing the pretended principles of the modern law of
cations, thatfree/lips make free goods Ani that tim
ber and naval ftorcs for the equipment and arma
ment of veffcls, are nut coutrabar.d of war.
2d. To violations of our treaties with France e
ven in their letter. '
3d. Tiil the Treaty of Amity and Commerce bet
ween the United States a„d Great-Britain ; which
he alledges '< deprive, France of all the auvanta,ei
ftipulalcd in a prev.ous treaty." A fourth com
plaint i» t. uly ingenious. The fortune of war ha.
constrained some of the belligerent powers from e
nemres, to become her allies ; aad if the alleged
abandonment of the rule of the modern law of na
tions, limsconfequences, works an injury to those
ahies, from that moment France is alio injured.
1 evhaps 1; will be in time to notice this last charge
when the allies themselves complain ; if the answer
to the firft, involving the fame principle, should not
render inch notice altogether URneceffary.
1 fiiail now prcL.it to your view those fads and
observations which will pr.ve,.we con:ei,e, that'
the mini Iter's complaints ar« without any iuft foun
dation. J
Under the firft charge, That we have not main
tained, as we ought to have done, our neutial
rights, it is alledged ;•
ijL That the pofuion, that frte Jhib,make free
goods, is an eftablUhed principle of the modern
law,ot nations, and that Great-Briuin, by cap
turing French properly on board our vessels, has
violated our neutral rights ; and that unlrfs we
canape! Great-Britam to refpecl those rights, France
will be jultiSed in violating them.
Not to remark on the singular reasoning, Tbat
if one warring pawer commits an adl of injustice
towards a neutral and innocent nation, aiioiher
warring power may lawfully commit the like id.
jultice, we may ask what authority is adduced, to
fl)ew that the modern law of nations has eftablifh
!ed the piiutiple, That free Jhips make fee goodsVatlel fays pofltively that " effe&s belonrmg 'to
" an enfcmy foun I .on board a neutral (hip, are
" fcizable by the tights of wai 1 ." Agreeably to
i his long efta.lifted rule of the law of nations,'
France herfelf, in her marine laws, has dire&ed
tha' the rnerchandiv.it ami rfftfts belonging to her ene
mies -which Jhall be found on board neural vej/'els
jhall be good prixe. By a former law, indeed, the
neutral veflels ihemfelveg, as well as the effects of
her enemies on b«ard, we> e declared to be good
prize. Valin remarks, however, that this regula
tion was peculiar to France and Spain ; and that
e4fewhi?re the goods of the enemy were alone fub
jefted to confifcation. And in the treaty of France
with the city of Hamburgh in 1769, it was sti
pulated that " all effefls, provisions and merchan
" diic whatsoever belonging to her enemies, and
found on board the veflels of Hamburgh (hould
be coi.fifc#ted."
Mr Artet remarks, that one of his predecclTors,
in July 1793. applied on this fubjeft to the govern
nrent of the United S'ates, but was nnfuccrfsful.
He mult refer to Mr. Genet's letter to Mt. Jt-ffer
-8f«, dated July 9, 1793, [the fuhjeA was resumed
in terms Hill meie extraordinary in his letter of July
ajth, 1793,] to which Mr. jefferfon answered on
the 34th, declaring " bis belief that it cannor be
" doubted, but that by the general law of nations,
*' the goods of a friend fpuiid in the vessel of an
" enemy are lawful prize. It is true that sundry
" nations, desirous of avoiding the inconveniences
" of having their vefTels stopped at sea, ransacked,
«« carried into port and detained, under pretencc
" of having enemy goads on board, have, in many
" inflawces, introduced, by theirfpecial treaties, ano
" ther principle between them, that enemy bottorrts
«' (hall mak« enemy goods, and friendly bottoms
" friendly goods—but this is altogether the cffedl
" of particular .treaty, controling, in fpetial cases,
" the general principle of the law of nations, and
" therefore taking effect between such nations only
" at have fa agreed to control it." And it is
plain, that it was to avoid the inconveniences re*
fulting from this general rule of the law of nations,
that France and the United St/tes stipulated, in the
23d article of their comrriercjfcl, treaty, " That free
" (hips should give freedom to goods ; and that
" every thing (hould be deemed fret which (hould
" he found on board the Slips belonging to the
" fubjetis of either of the contra&ing parties, al
" though the whole lading, or any patt thsreof,
" (hould appertain to the enemies of either, con
" traband goods being always excepted." It is
alto slain that this ftipulatiou was intended to ope
rate (indeed it was its sole objeA, and otherwise
could have no operation at all) when one of the
parties fliould be at war with a nation, or nations,
with whom the other at peace. France,
therefore, has now no right to complain if the
goods of her enemies find protection on board
American (hips, or 1o pretend, that,in order "T»
" reflore the balance of neutrality to its equilibri.
" um, 1 (he may feiie on such goods : the jurt equi
librium between her and the United States will be
reftorcd when we are at war and (he at ; at
which time the geodiof our enemtes.will find pro
tection on board the veflels of her citizens.
2d. It is alledged that we have abandoned the
modern public law on contraband, and by our trea
ty with Gieat-Brftain granted to that pawer exclu
fively the free carriage of articles for the equipment
and armament of veflels.
Here, as in the former ease, the question recurs,
what is thr law of nations on the point in dispute ?
Vaitel defines contraband goods to be " comkjiodi
" ties particularly ofed in war--fuch are arms, mi
" litary and naval Mores, timber, horfee, and even
*' provisions in certain juoitures, when there are
" hopes of reducing the eftemy by famine." In
the treaty between France and Denmark, conclud
ed oh the 23d of August, 1742 —"Tar was de
" clared contraband, together with resin, fails,
" hemp, cordage, mails, and timber fsr (hip biiil
;"ding.'* " Thus, on this account (fays Valin)
" there would have been no cause far complaining
41 of the crinduit of the English, if they had not
•• infringed particular treaties ; for of right thefc
*' things are now contraband, and have been so since
" the beginning of this century, which, howevc,
4 * was not the cafe formerly." " The modern pub
" lie law on contraband," mentioned by Mr. Adet
and his predeceflora, probably refers to the princi
ples declared by the armed neutrality? during .the
American War. This tranfa&ion is too remarka
ble to be passed unnoticed.
During that war/ Gieat.Britain and the other
belligerent powers, exercising the rights adored to
them by the law of nations, made prize of enemies
property on board neutral veflels, and of contraband
goods belonging to neutrals. Eageras neutial 11a- j
tions must be to seize the opportunity which war
presents, of becoming the tarrieis for the bellige
rent nations, where (hips and mariners are wanted
for military cpeiatiens, it was petfeftly natural that
the former (hould deiire to establish as a rule, that
frce(hips (hould made free goods ; or in other words,
that neutral bottoms (hould protest the goods on
board, to whomsoever these belonged ; and it was
equally natuial.for them to deflre to diminish the
lilt of contiabaßd. In refpeft to the latter, it must
have been particularly interesting t® the three nor
thern Bioiitime powers, ftoM dominions
chiefly the other maritime nations of Europe re
<iived supplies of timber and naval (lores, to strike
these from the lift of contraband, or by fomt means
to exempt them from capture.
[To be Continued.']
Hotfe of Q/prefentativrs of the United States.
Friday, January ao.
After f«me private petitions had been read, the
Hcufe took up the Reiblution patted in the committee
of the whole yesterday, on the fubjetf of further reve
nue, when, after some observations on the propriety
of dividing the resolution, it was agreed to be divided,
and the yeas and nays having been called for on the
firft part, viz. " for laying tax on the land with
its improvements, including town lots, they were a»
follow:
YEAS.
Mefj*s. Baldwin, Blount, Srent, Buck, Cnbel, Cut,
Cths, Cooper, Craik, Dent, Ege, Find ley, Gal at m,
Oilman, C-lenn, Goodrich, Greenup, Grove, Hamc :
Kanifan, Hartley, Hathorn, Havens, Hmdman, KU
tera, Living/ton, Madijb** Milledge, Moore, Mubkn
erg, Murray, Se-W, Nicholas, Qrr, Page, Patten,
Pre/ton, Jutherford, Sewall, Sitgrevvcs, Ifauc Smith,
■ >n. smith, R. Sprigg, S-wanwici, fin Allen, Van
Cortlandt, ''enable, IVilliams.—tf.
NAYS.' ,
n^. e J rS> ' mej ' Bailey, Bradbury,. Bryan, Burgess,
Lbriftte, Dana, Davenport, Dearborn, A. Foflcr.
D. Fojler, franklin. Freeman, GiUtfpie, Grifauold,
Harper, Henderfon, Holland, /!. Jack/on, G. Jackson
Locke, S. Lyman, W Lyman, Maclay, Macon, Mal
bone, Potter Read, Sherborne, Smith, N. Smith,
Strudavtck, Sa,ift, Thatcher, Thomas, Tbumofon,
Varnum, WadJworth, Winn. ■ 391
After a considerable debate on the latter part of the
resolution, viz. " for laying a direct tax on (laves with
certain exceptions," the question was take* by yeas
and nays 1 , as follows :
Yeas —Messrs. Ame <, Baldwin, tlount, Bradbury,
Brent, Rvck, "Cabel, Chri/lie, Claiborne, Coles, Copp
er, Craik Davenport, D,nt, tge, Findley, A. Fojler,
Franklin, Gallatin, Gillefpie, Gil man, Glenn, Green
up. Gregg, Grove, Hnmptcn, Hancock, Harper, Har
rifon, HartJey. Hathorn, Havens, Hindman, Holland,
A. Jackson, K.ttera, I.oek, S. Lyman, Maclay, Ma
con, Madison, Milledge, Moore, Muhlenberg, Mur
ray, New, Nicholas, Qrr, Page, Parker, Patten,
Prejlon, Rutherford, Seiuall, Sitgrea-ves, Israel Smith,
IJaac Smith, S.Smith, If. Smith, Sprigg, Strudzuick,
Swanwick, Kan Allen, Fan Cortlandt, Venable, Wadf
worth, Williams, ffinit. —68.
Nays Mejfrs. Bryan, Burgess, Ccit, Dana, Dear
born, D. Fojler, Freeman, Goodrich, Grifivold, Hen
derfon, ft. Jackson, W. Lyman, Malba t, Potter,
Read, Sherborne, Jeremiah Smith, N. Smith, Swift,
Thatcher, 'Thomas, Thompson, Varnum—l j..
The main quefton was thert put on the resolution
together, aad the yeas and nays, thereupon, when it
was carried 49 to 39, the fame members voting in the'
affirmative and negative as upon the firft question, ex
cept that Messrs. Baldwin, Cooper and Livingfton,
who voted in the affirmative on the firft question, wers
absent when this was taken, and Meflrs. Claiborne.
Gregtr, Parker, and S. Smith, were present and vot
ed in the yeas on this question. In the nays, MK
Strudwick who voted on the firft question was absent
on thii, and Mr. Hampton was present in this and aD
fent on the firft call.
The refolut'ion was then referred to the committee
of ways and meins to bring in a bill accordingly.
The houfc went into a committee of the whole on
the bill for carrying into efTeft thf laws of the United
States in the ftatc of ! enneflee, and after some debate,
the committee rose and had leave tn fit again.
Adjom ned to Monday.
By this day's Mail.
CHARLESTON, December 30.
Arrivals yesterday. Days.
Ship George, Rice Philadelphia 7'
Dauphin, Barklay Cape-Nichola Mole 29
Brig Clinton, Norris Surinam 33
Schooner Amity,-Aammond' Ma hias 20
Sloop Joana, Briggs Norfolk 6
Capt. Rice (aw the South-Carolina at anchor
in the rivci on the 2 ill, where he had lam from
the 15th. The extremity of the weather was so
great, as to leave no doubt in Capt. Rice's mind
of the river being ckded.
Mole.Si. Nicholas, 27th November, 1796.
Lift of American veflels now in this pott, a;id
wishing for aconvoy to Poit-au Prii.ef, viz.
Snow H umonv, MatlhaH, from Charleston
Sckoo'ier Venu3, Hazard, da.
B'ig Hannah, Ha'ton, Norfolk
Schooner Eliza, M«ffat, do.
Bri» Gruger, Tinkei, v Philadelphia
Polly, Rolth, do.
Emilia, Huttings, do.
Ship Delena, Skinner, New-York
Sihooncrjohn, Lambeth, Norfolk
NORFOLK, Janua.iy 12.
The fchoener Sifters of Baltimore, artived here
on Monday evening last, in 19 days from Cape-
Francois, we are informed, that the cOmmiilioneis
from the French republic at the Cape have declar
ed, all'the southern par s of St. Domingo in a
Hate of revolt, ainj thai the refpefiive ports are
eon(ider«d in a state of blockade. All veflels and
eargoei bound to or coming from that pa 11 of the
I island are conlidered liable to capture and condem
nation.
BALTIMORE, January 19.
Yeft« r day arrived captain Webb, »f the fchoo
ner after a paflage of 28 days (rum Boftan,
vis Norfolk and Aanapulis ; he informs that the
Prevoyante was (on Monday last) lying in Hamp
ton R®ads, and that commodore Bai aey's frigates
were at Norfolk ; onp of which was heaving down.
NEW-YORK, January 20.
The canvass of the voles of this state is now
finifhed, and the following gentlemen are eledled
to represent this state in the Congrefi»-of the Unit
ed States, for two years from the 4th of March
next.
•James Cochran, £)avid Brooks,
Henry Glenn, * Lucas Elmendsrph
John Williams, P. Vail Courilandt,
Jiihn E. Va-i Allen, Jona. Ha*en,
•Hezekiah L. Hofmer,
TlioPe marked thus * are new members.
ARRIVALS. Days.
Btig Gen. Warren, Rice Gottenberg 97
Schooner Liberty, Buckley Hifpaniola 17
Anny, Woodman Cape-Francois 25
Sloop Polly, Boardman | do. 21
From the log-book of the schooner Hawk, Capt. Hunt
from Barbadoes.
On Friday, 23d December, at 4, P. M. the
island of Defeada bearing E. S. E. saw a 1 nail
fail to windward, 10 company with a large brig,
who immediately bore down upon me, and after
running about an hour, finding it impoflible to es
cape him, I hove two — Upon her coming along
fide, I was bailed, and in.broken Engliih, defircd
to hoist out my boUand come on board, with my
papers—Upon my atrival on board the piivateer,
hey rie ained rae, and sent the boat to the schoo
ner( with fix men, armed with pistols and cutlafles,
a examine her. In the intermediate time, the
aptainoverhauled my papers, examined and re
timed them, without faying any thing to me. I
fljed him what that brig was to windward—he
infoimed me (he was a -biig from Portland, laden
with provifionSj bound t» Martinique, which he
a
hid taken and ffnt for GuadaAwpe. I aflted the
name of the veflel and captain, hut h? would in
form me (if neither—would give me no intelli
gence relative to the Situation of Guadalovpe,- but
said t(iey had five American veffeli at Point-a Petre
Under condemnation. Upon the return of the
boat, I found they had brought with them a
French gentlen#in, who had been taken at St.
Lucia, wat then upon hi* parol#, and had taken
his passage with me to Philadelphia for the reco
very of his health : they detained him on board,
but deiired me to depart with the reft, and make
the belt of my wiy. Upon ipy return 011 board,!
I found they had examined the trunks of two pas
sengers, and overhauled every thing, but taken no
thing—onlv threatening to carry them into Gus
daloupe as Englilhmen, and put them in jail.
Late Foreign Intelligence.
Frcm tht London Gazette Extraordinary.
from our !aft. J
Admiralty Office, November 3,1796.
Difpatehes, of which the following are copies, (bro't
by Captain JobH Aylmer, of his Majefty'a Clip Tre
mendous) were this day received from the honorable
Vica Admiral, Sir George Keith llphinftone, K. B.
Monarch, Saldanha Bay, Auguji 19,1796.
Sir,
I have the honor to inrlofe a lift of a Dutch fquad
on under the command of Rear Admiral Enijelbertus
Lucas, lent hither for the reduction of this colony, but
which were compelled to surrender by eapitulation, on
the 17th inftaut, to the detachment of his Majesty's
Clips undtr my commind, named in the margin*, on
the terms also inclofeit, For further particulars I beg
leave to refer you to the accompanying detail of the
proceedings of the squadron from the 4t)vto the Bth
inft. and I hope the Lords Commissioners of the Ad
miralty will approve the measures I have taken, so es
sential te the Britifli commercial interest in the East.
Ihe ships are all coppered and in good condition,
except the Caflor, wliofe rudder is defective.
In juft'ice to the officers and men I have the honor
to command, it is iny duty to observe, that, in conle
quence of the mod violent tempestuous weather I eyer
beheld, and the very unpleasant fittution in which the
squadron was at limes placed, they chearfully, and
much to their credit, underweul a degree of fatigue
hardly credible.
Caprain Aylracr will have the Jionor of presenting
thei'e difpatehes. I beg leave to mention him to their
Lordfliips, as a rei'peiSable Gentleman and an a<Sive
officer. * , '
1 have the honor to be, with great refpe&,
Sir,
Your most obedient humble servant,
G. K. tLPHINSTON.
Evan Tfepean, Esq.
Monarch, SaldbaHa Buy, Augujl 19, 1796.
Sift,
I have the honor to inform you, that intelligence
was received at Cape Town, on the 3d inft. of a num
ber of (hips having been seen in the offing at Saldanha
Bay, which was confirmed en the sth. In cense-
this 'very preparation was made for putting
te i'/Jpinmediately, with the squadron under my com
nnunl; bin from the Monarch's main mast being out,
and theiefiipeßuous weather, I was not able to quit the
anchorage in Simon's Bay until the 6th, when we
pffrcefded toTea.
Oil getting under way an officer from thelhore, came
on board t.> ( i ifoi m me thai a number of fails had been
seen the preceding night in the offing, near False-bay j,
I theq refpjve ito ftecrto the Couth ward and weft, in"
expedition of their having taken tfiat eourfc.
i he fqjnlro; continued eruiling in the m»(l
temj rftupiti wea'her I have evei experienced, which
damaged many ot the fhip3, and at one time the
Ruby had five feel water in her hold. We were
joined at sea by his majesty's (hip Stately, Rattle
snake and Echo fiopps. Oil the 12th L returned,
with a frslh breeze blowing .frcm the fpuih east,
upon anchoring in Simon's Bay, the master
attendant Come ofF with information that the ships
seen, consisting os-nine fail, had put into Saldanha
Bay on the 6th, the fame day 011 which I had pro
ceeded to sea ; that they remained there by the last
advice, and that four ships had been difpaiched in
quest of mq to communicate this welcome intelli
gence.
1 immediately made the signal to fail, but the
Crcfcent had got afhorc ; the wind blew strong and
increased on the following day to a perfect tempest,
in which the Tremendous parted two cables, drove,
and was in great danger of being 1011, so that, not
withstanding every exertion, and the n*jft anxious
moments of ray life, we could not get out until
the 15th.
On the 16th the squadron arrived olf Saldanha
Bay at sun-set, and the Crescent, which had been
ordered a-head, to discover information and 10 re
port, made the (ignal for the enemy, consisting of
three ships of the line, three frigatti, and other
(hips, being moored in the bay.
The squadron Hood on into the Bay in the order
of failing, but the night coming on, and the rear
being too far extentjud for action, I judged it ex
pedient to come to an anchor within (hot of th#
euemy's (hips, and perceiving their numbers very
inconfideraWe in comparison to the forces under my
command, T confidcred it my duty, and an imam
bent aft of humanity, to address the Dutch offieer
in command, and consequently forwarded the lcttef
to him, of which the enclosure, No. 3, is a copy,
by lieutenant Coffin, of the Monarch, with a flag
of truce; to this I received a verbal return, that a
politive leply should be sent in the morning at day
break. I was fearful the enemy might attempt to
injure the (hips, and therefore ordered lieutenant
Collin to return immediately with my letter No. 4.
to which he brought back the reply No. 5.
On the 17th, at nine in the morning, a Dutch
officer came on board with a flag, and presented
proposals of teims for capitulation, which you will
observe in the correspondence, with my remarks
and definitive letter ; and at five P. M. the terms
contained in the inclosed copy were ultimately
agreed upon, but it was impofiible to take pofTef
fion of the (hips until the 18th, on account of the
(lormy weather.
It affords me the highest fatiifaftinn, therefore,
to communicate to my lords eommiffioners of the
admiralty, that a squadron of (hips belonging to
the United States, under command of his ex
cellency rear admiral Engtlberttis Lucas, has fur-
to the Britilh force utider ray command,
confilting of three fltips of the line, swo fine In
fjates, tw« of 28 £Uns, and a flonp of (8 jfans, all
completely coppered, stored and victualled, toge
ther with a large laden store (hip, the names of
which are described in the inclofure No. 6, and the
Britilh ships, to whom they are prizes, in the in
elofure No. 7.
The consequent joy of this fortunate event it
much augmented from the eonfulatory reflcAion on
it's accompli'hmeitt without effufion of human
blood, or injury to either of the enemy's or Britilh
(hips, n«t a single shot having been filed.
T must, however, beg leave to observe, tVat any
refiftaace on the part of the eneiwy could only have
occasioned the wanton facrifite of a few lives; and
I doubt not, that had their numbers been adequate
to contention, their eondu& would have confirmed
the acknowledged merit at all times reeorded to the
martial spirit «f fubjefls of the United Stales ; and
I can with similar confidence afl'ure you, that the
officers and men under my command would have
exhibited a conduct equally ereditable to tIK-m
----felves.
The repeated advic»s communicated in your let
ters, refpefiiiig'the enemy's force* dettined to this
quarter, agreed so corre&ly with the intelligence I
obtained by other means, that I have lo'tg been ex
pe&ing this arrival, and was thereby enabled to be
perfectly prepared to receive them, and contLantif
to keep a vigilant look out.
I have the honor to be, with great sfteem,
Sir,
Your most obedient humble servant,
G. K. ELPHINSTONE.
Evan Nefiah, FJj.
fTobe continued.^
t
Mr. Fxitr/o,
Please to insert for the consideration of the
Stockholders, the following r.ames in your paper,
as suitable characters for Directors of the Bank of
Pennfylv*»ia—And oblige A stockholder.
Samuel Howell, George Pennock,
Robert Ralfton, Matliew Lawler,
Jftfeph P. Norris, • Andrew Bayard,
Godfrey Haga, Joseph Ball,
George Pluroftead, Henry Pratt,
William Sarfon, Thomas Norton,
.Thomas L. Moore, John Craig,
Wm. Montgomery, Robert Wharton,
Philip Nickli*, Jacob Douning.
John C. Slocker,
NOTICE.
Persons having Goods on board the Ship Persever
ance, James Williamfon, matter, bound from Ham
burg to this Port, and lately put into New-York,
where the VefTel is discharging, will please apply to
THOMAS and JOHN KETLAND.
Philadelphia, Jan. 11, 17;';, tf
Hibernian Society.
Such of th« Members ol this society as are entitled to
Diplomas, are rsqucftcd to apply for them to
Mr. Hugh Helmet, Vice President',
- Mr. David M'Cor mid, Treafurtr }
Mr. Robert H. Drinker, LonnfelUr f
Mr. Jojefih Bra<wn ;
Mr. Edward Fox;
Or to MATHEW CAREY, See.
Philad. Jan. n, 1797. taw6t
Loft «r Mislaid,
At the Bank of the United States, Joseph Higbee'e
Nott, dated 29th December laQ, tor twelve hundred
dollars, payable at 60 days to Nathaniel Lewis «3c Son.
Whoever may find the fame will please return it to said
Bank, or to the lubferibers, who will allow a reward.
Payment being barred, it cannot be of ufc to any
other person. NATHANIEL LEWIS & SON.
5. \ J. 11, 3*
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Scheme of a Lottery, authorized by an aft entitled
"An ad to enable the President and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Sufquehannah navigation, to raise, by
way of Lottery, the furn of Four Hundred Thousand
Dollars, for the purpose of completing the works, ia
their ids of incorporation mentioned."
Dollars
I Prise of twenty thousand dollars, *0,000
I of ten thousand dollars, 10,000
5 of four thousand dollars each, to
be paid to the poffelTors of the five
numbers firft out of the wheel on the last
day's drawing, at which time there (ball
not be less than 500 numbers undrawu, 10,000
10 of two thousand dollars each, 20,000
29 of one thousand dollars each, jo,sco
43 of five hundred dollars eaeh, 31,500
100 of two hundred dollars each, ac,eo«
lao of one hundred dollars each, 10,000
ISO of fifty dollars each, li,ce*
19,500 of five dollars each, 147,509
30,000 Tickets at ten dollars each. 300,000
Six dollar s for each ticket will only be demanded at
the time of sale
All prizes £hall be paid ten days after the drawing i»
finifhed, upon the demand of the pofl'eflbr of a fortunate
ticket, a dedudion of fifteen percent.
Such prizes as are not demanded within 12 month*
after the Drawing Is finiflied, of which public notico
will be given, shall be conlidercd as relinquilhed for
the use 0 the Canal and applied accordingly.
At a nfeiting of the President and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Snfquehanna Canal Navigation— and
the President and Managers of the Delaware and
Schuylkill Canal,
Refolvtd, That Joseph Ball, John Steinmctz, Stan
dilh Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Crea, John Mil
ler, jtanr. and William Montgomery be a committee
to arrange and dired the mode of difpolng of the
tickets ; which committee {hall deposit the money in
Bank, to be carried to the credit of an account to be o»
pened for the Lottery.
At a meeting of the Canal Board, held January 16, '97,
Resolved, That the committee for conduding the
Lottery be direded to commence the on the
firft day of March next. '' •
JEjttrad from the minutes,
Wm. M. Smith, Secretary.
Joseph Ball, 1
John $teinmet%,
( &tandi/k Forde,
Francis Weft, Manager*.
James M'Crea,
Jehu Milltr, juit.
M'illiam M»xl{omery, t
Jan. s«. thit f.t.Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOfeSON,
No. 25, South Thirdrftreet,
Has j.uft received, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, via Lon
don, an aiTortment 01
Scarlet
Drab / Cloalct trimmed with fur and
Purple and C ermine.
Pearl J
December 15. §
PROPOSALS,
For carrying the Mails of the United
States,
On tie following Pojl Roads, will be rccit-ved until
thefirjl day of March next inclufi-ve :
I. From Charleston, S. C. ky Jackfonhoro' and C?oofa
hatchy, ts Savannah, twice a week. Receive the Mail
at CharUfton every Tuelday and Friday by 6, ~P. M. and
deliver it at Savannah'the nest Friday an« Monday, by 8
A. M. Returning, receive the Mail at Savannah eve
Saturday, by 6, P. M. and Wednefdiy by 6, A. M. and
deliver it at Churlefton the /icxt Tuelday and Friday
by noon.
Prepnfals for this route will .he received by tit fojl-majlcr at"
Savannah. '
1. From Coofahatchy to Beaufort once a week—
Receive the mail at Coofahatchy'ever.y Thursday by 6,
T. M. and deliver it at Beaufort by noon on Friday. Re
turning, leave'.Beaufort every Friday oy 3, p. m. and arrive
at Coafahatchy on Saturday by 8, a. m.
Proposals for carrying the mail on this route will be re
ceived by the post-master at Beaufort.
Note 1. The Post-master Genera 1 m*y alter the times
for the arrival and departure of the mail, at any time du
ring the continuance of the contra&s, he previously ftipu
lati»g an adequate compe*fation for any extra expence
that may be ocoafioried thereby.
Note 2. For every_hours delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in arriving after the times prescribed by con
tract, the contraitor (hall forfeit one dollar, and if the
delay continue until the departure of any depending mail
an additional forfeiture of five dollars lhall be incurred.
Note Should any person making, proposals desire an
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpc
eified, he must slate the alteration desired and the price
he will carry the mail for with and without f«ch alte
ration.
Note 4. The contrails are to be in operation on the
firft day of April next and to continue until the 30th of
September i» the year 1800. ♦ >
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Pojl Miller General.
General Pod Office, >
Philadelphia, Jan. 13,1796.3
T " 1 - ' 6 - d6w.
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
GEORGE DAVIS announees to his protcftional frieads,
and the Gentlemen of. the Law, generally, throftgh the
Unioa, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and ready for Sale, from a single volume to an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, which for several years pail have in lo dtftinguilhed a
manner recommended them/to notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the most exteafive collec
tion cf the latest EngliOi and iri(h Editions ever imported
iato this country, are publilhedj and win be delivered gratis
on application.
Orders addrefTed to G. D. in writing from any diftanoc
lhall be pun6tua!ly attended to*
A number of TRUNKS for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient LOFT, near Market Street Wharf.
0 tiv&f3»
City of Washington.
SCHEME of the LOTERY, Mo. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent > SOSOOO d»Hirs, & )
dwelling-houfo, 3 cafty 30,000, are J S°,ooo
I ditto ij.ooo & cacti 15,000 40,000
I ditto ij,ooo & ca!h ij,ooo 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cadi 10,000 a 0,009
I ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,00p & calh 5,000 lo,ooe
1 cilh prize of 10,000 1
a do. 5,000 each, ire • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
20 do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000 <
200 do. 50. - - 10,000 (
400 do. 35 - 10,600
liooo do. 20 - 10,000
15,000 do. 10 - 150,000
, I
16,739 Prizes- c
33ji6i Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. 3. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets, the prise of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
er prizes,, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for p
any number not ltfs than 30 tickets. a
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpecimeh of the pri- ~
vate buildings to be ere&edin the City of Walhington
Two beautiful designs are already feleded for the entire
fronts on two of the public lquares; from these prawings
it ispropofed to erect two centre and four corner baildmgs,.
as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in f1
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery. a
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray tc
the necessary expenses of the Surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
University, to be ctecled within ths city of Walhington.
The Drawing-will commence as soon as the tickets are
old off.-—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is finifhed ; and any prize< for which fortunate
numbers aie not produced within tiVelvc months after ths
drawing is closed, are to be confidsrcdas given towards
the fund for the University ; being determined to fettle,
the whole business in a year from the e",Jing of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given a 6 l'eeurity.
The real securities given for the payment ot the Prizes
are held'by the Prcfident and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than seals the a
mount ol the lottery.
The tweaty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commifiioners alfifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requelted to undertake this arduous talk I 1
. second time on behalf of the public ; a fuflicient nirai
jsr of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
ieiids to a National University and the othei federal ob- '''
jests may continueio favor the design. llc
By accounts reeeived from the diilerent parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets c ' r
have b«cn sent for sale, the public afe ajTiirea that the f '' :
drawing will speedily coir.menae, ami that the care and
caation unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe difoofal oi
tlu tickets,Jias rendered the ltior- iufpyuiion rndifpuilablu.
SAMUEL BLOIiGJiT.
«§. Titkbts may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
James Welt & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Oilman, Boston :
of Joh Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Walls
Cooper's Furry. ca
FOR SALE,
At Whitefidcs" Tea Ware-Hoafe,
No. 9-9, North Second Street.
B . Imperial > r Hyson Skin.
Hyson, C Frelh Teas. < Souchong,
Young Hyson, )> CBohea
Dec. 9. 3tar/.?m,
Dancing scuool.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open hisfchool on Mon
day the 31ft inft. at ten o'clock m the morning, at his
D Elegant hew Ball Rooms, ,
In Fourth, bctWeen Chefoat and Walnut Strem.
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to t o'clock
on Mondays, Wedtiefday, and Friday mornings; aad for
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock oil the evenings o
a. the fsmedays.
til In addition to a ntunber of new cotillioas, he means 00
,d (introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
g Note. Tiie-firft' praiSifnag hall to be on TiwMay e
vening, the firfl of November,tend to be corHHiiued every
Tuesday, during the faafoii. 1
For terms, &c, enquire at liie house, N9.134, Market
ftreet.
at 0 '7- tthf
CAUTION.
t- WHEREAS very large and heavy debts are jullly
•c due and owing from mefirs. Blair M'Clenachan and
Patrick Msore, of the city of Philadelphia, merchants,
i- trading under tie firm of Blair M'Clenachan arid P.
and from Blair M'Clenachan in his separate
:s capacity ; to which, by the laws of the land, all the
joint as well as separate property of the' said Gen'le
men, is, and ought to be, liable. And whereas
e it is clearly And fatisfa&orily ascertained, that mr.
Blair M'Clenachan, of the said firm, has conveyed.
s away to mr. "John H. Hujlon, his ian-in law, to his
' daughter, naifs M'Clenachan, and to his son, George
M'Clenachan, several large and valuable real 'estates,
I as well eouliaerable personal property, in the city
n and county of Philadelphia, in thecoantv of Lancas
ter, in the county of NewCastle on Delaware, and
e elsewhere, with a view, at it is apprehended, to de
_ ieat the Greditors iu the recovery of their jult debts.—
1 his is, tltcrefore, to forewarn all perfone, whamfo
e ever, jgainft the purs.hafe from the said grantees, or
f either of [hem, of any portion of the said real or per
fbjsal property, as the molt vigorous mea lures will
without delay be taken to render the fame liable to
the juA demands of the Greditors.
By order of, the (Jreditors.
Thomas rit%ftmons,
Philip Nickhn, I
J/aac barton, V Committee.
William M'Murtrie, I
Samuel PP. Fijher, ' J
> Philadelphia, December 17th, 1796. aoth.s
- TO THE PUBLIC.
THE caation introduced into the public prints,
, warning all perfonn againlt purchaliag from the
granteetof Blair M'Cienachan, any portion of the
• large, real and personal estates he conveyed away to
| his fon-ia law and to hit children was tfce result of
a deliberation had upon the fubjeft by a general aad
; numerous meeting of the creditors as well of Blair
M'Clenachan and P Moore as of Blair
ehan individually. It was no more than an ixecu
tion of that trust confidad in the fubferibers by
those crediturs : a step which it would have been a
breach of duty and honor in them to have omitted.
1 he aery statement of the fact therefore must dis
pel the imputation that it was either " precipitate
or vindictive." It i»i iginated in a delire to feoure,
the property of the debtor as a fund for the pay
ment of his juit debts. It was faniSioned by tlie
advice of council as a measure Ttecejfary to the fafety
of the creditors. If the has been
injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
to his own unjuftiliable condua, no; to the Yub
fcribers «'no have merely puWiflied the truth in
terms as mild as the fact would admit, and wl o
mean to investigate in a high court of justice the
validity of thole purchases of which Mr. M'Cle
nachan so confidently speaks.
The lubfiribers therefore are bound by a sense
of duty to the creditors in general to repeat their
eaaiion agaiaft purohafing of those grantees 01
either of them, and to extend the terms of it to a
purehafe from any other persons (if fach there be)
to whom Mr. M'Clenaehan may have made firililar
conveyances.
(Signed) T. FITZSIMONS,
P. NICKLIN, ,
ISAAC WHARTON,
WILLIAM M'MURTRIE,
SAMUEL W. FISHER.
Phifed. Dec. 21, 1796.
1 hose printers who have been requefled to J
publish the firft Caution, are desired t piibiifh this
alfo'. 1 ,
Washington Canal Lottery, '
N0 . i. ;
"ITT HERE AS the State of Maryland has authorifott 5 t
VV the underwritten, to raiife twenty-fix thousand. I ,
two hundred, arid fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting ' [
a Canal through the City of Washington, frovi th i*o i
tomacto theEafkcrn Branch Haruour.
The following ii, the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz 'i Prize of ao,ooo dollars, »0,000 a
r .ditto 10,000 / 10,000 I
7laftdrawn"> a
Tickcts, each f s * 6o ° 35,000 f
6 ditto 1,000 6,000 1
10 ditto 400 4,000
, 20 ditto 100 2,000 3
55 ditto 50 a»7Jo
5750 ditto 12 69,008
• To be raised for th« Canal, 26,35©
5850 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two-to a prize.
175°° 1 ickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000 f
$5* ihe CommiiTioners have taken the Securities re li
quired by the aforefaid ad for tke pnqftual payment of P
the prizes. v
Ihe drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, asl soon as ttu* Tickets are fold, of which timclv V
notice will be given. '
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after ths v
drawing is finiflied, lhall be confi'dered as relinquithed for ti
the benefit ®f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly. ~
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL,o/D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER, '
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY. £>
Cit ot Walhipgton, Feb. Ij. t
For Sale,
By the Subftribers—ln PENN-STRF.ET,
65 Pipes .Excellent Madeira "Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30 -vi'&f
Le Breton-,
S UR GEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of ;he colebratad Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
>" King and Royal Family of France, meinbnr of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris, -
Keeps a complete afiortment of every thing necefliry
j. to be used forthe
k Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
>r Pater.t Mineral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
0 Dentrifice in powder ; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
/widening the mouth and p»eferving tiis teeth —he
10 1 also fnmimas Brushes atid foft Sponges.
He liyes in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, ab.ve
" Fdurth-ftrtct.
November 26. tt»
- Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from th<( fubferiber on.the 13 d Oitober,
_ a Dark MtfLATTO BOY, named MOSES ; aj years
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mixed green
coat, With a green velvet cape and oval,yellow buttons ;
a {triped Vcft ;'a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
y whole boots much worn. It improbable he may change
d his name and dress. He has been aceuflomed to driving
i, a' carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for securing him so that the fubferiber may get him
e again, and if brought home all reafonab-le charges paid by
e ■ Robins Chamberlaine.
Eaflon., Maryland, Nov. io. T4 (imiawtf '
Horles taken in,
jj For the Winter Season,
f And fed on clover hay at the Subscribers place, iz
lilies on the Bristol Itoad, (tabling is pro
' vided, and great care will be> taken of tneni
William Bell.
' Nov. 23. mwfqwrntttf.
Samuel Richardet
" ■13 ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
- TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
-1 city of Philadelphia;
) The Snbfcription Room will be furmflied with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, togather'with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to-be taken away on any account.
- Tea, Coffee, Souses, Jellies, IceCreams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refreflmieiut,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
• the choicest of Wines,' Spirituous Liquors, and the moll
approved Malt Liquors frorr.London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplicd with the prime,and earliest
, productions ps the Season.
Large and small Farties, op single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with BreaWafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
1 hours most convenient to themie'lves—a cold Collation is
: regularly kept for conveniency, the Billof Fare t-o be had
at the bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifeed, and
the utrr.oil attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
rcquilitc. x
S\muel Richardet will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himieU that nothing on his part ihallbe wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so diffinguifh
ingly honored.
Philadelphia, mwf
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A.Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufactory, firuate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works aimolt new,
on an entirely original conftruflion, and built of the best
material*, and may be set to work immediately. Persons
whowifhto purchase, are requefled to apply at No 273,
South Second Sireet. September 13. tt f tf I
SWA N N'S '
Riding School, Horse Academy iff Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street
T. SWANN
RLTUHNS lii& finccre thanks tothofe.gentlemen by whom
he has .been employed, duiing his refidetice in this JClty, and
fkttershimfeif that the fuo.efs of hu> tifoits, in numerous,
obflinatc and dangerous difeafcs in Horses, in which he has
been consulted, together with hu moderate charges, will (e
---ure their future favors and rccoiumehdation. *
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
that his Ipacious ann commodious p«mi!cs, ere&cd for the 1
purposes above described are open for the reception of pupils
of cither lex, who wifti to* br ir;flru6tcd in the Art us Riding
and the light method ol governing their hoi les, so as to ride
them with ease, elegaoce, and fafety—their horses will be
carefully and expeditjouily broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient tot he will of the riders ; the natural powers ]
which are lbut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling 1
forth uniformity of morion, and giving to that noble anirpal 1
att tho(e beauties of a&ion which providence has so bounfi- ]
fully bedowed on them.
Also, at his hospital, every disorder to which the horse is [
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by song and repeated experience.
Thf-utihty of the above institution has never beenqneftton
ed, that it has long been wanted in this city, every gentleman's *
<tud\wil;l manifeft, and T. Swan nas the hrfi eftablilher of G
the vciergnary arfc, solicits »*d telies upon the fuppoit^fthat* r
public (which he is ever anxious in serving) to cnabli him to
biingit to perfection. The'idea of a (übfeription for rfiat 11
purpose has bceu hinted by*feveral gentleman, who wish to
promote the inftkution—Uie amount of each fubfcrip:ion to
be returned by services in any or tf>c departments heprpreflTes,
agreeable to rate of charges stated in lais band bill. Such
fubfe'ripuoa is now open, and the ftgnatures of many refpeft
able gentlemen already obrained. He -therefore injorms his
friends and fuel* Ladies aua gentlemeM to wfiom he has not
the honor of being known, that he dial) in a few days take
the liberty of waiting upon tbem and lolicking their support r
and proteftMo.
N. B. Horses arc properly prepared for those Ladies and ,
feentleoaenwho wilh to be infiru&ed.
N'v>Y. 5- . /tth&f.
; tl
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, t b ;
jA new method of keeping Bill Books, t*
Adapted forthe ease and copvenience of merchantE P
in general j but particularly for those who are ex
•tetifively concsrued in trade: exhibiting at one at
view, Jill the bills which a merchant may have to C
receive or pay, in the course of the whole year, &
for each month feparatively. And thereby pre- f
venting thi trouble and inconvenience attendant on t j.
the mode now in use, of fele&ing the bills due in
«ach month from the promiscuous entries of ftvcral
moriih^.
To which is prefixed, —
A t able Ihtwing the number of days from any day
any jronth, lo the fame day in any other month. P
Philadelphia, printed for and fold by R. CAMP
BELL & Co.
January z tawtf •
Trealury Department,
SipUmicr 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that will b. re
ceived at the oilice of the Secretary of liie Treaiury
until the expiration of the firft day bf 'March next en
suing, for tkcfupply of all ration* which may he required
_ for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
.June, 1797, to the thirty-ftrfl day'of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the plates sad within the dlftriits here
after mentioned, viz. At OfWego.; at Niagara-; at
i£ Paefque lfte; at Sandiificy'Lake, and on Sandufky
le Riv«r; at Detroit; at Mickilimackinac; at l'ort-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton;
"V at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfor,; at Grenviile; at
Picque Town and Loramias Store; at Fort Adams ;at
I Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance; at any place hilow Fort
| Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
I » Steuben ; at Fort MalTac ; at any place from Fort M.iliac
' to the south boundary of the United States on, the river
"* e MiffiAppi; at Fort Knox ;at Ouiatajion.
ff Supplies (ball be req*ired for any ports or places not
,e mentioned in this notice, all such supplies Shall be fur
liiftied at prices proportioned to thole to be paid at the
__ before recited, ®r as may be hereafter agreed oa
between the United States the' Contractor.
The rations to be fuppiied are to conftft ef the lol
r, lowing articles, viz.
rs One pound twp ounces of bread »r flour.
:n One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounce* of
' • pork or bacon. •
d Half a gill of rum, krandy cr whiiixy.
!® On* quart and half a pint of fclt."N
K Two quarts of Vinegar, /
,e Two pounds of Soap, ( P er n ration*
II One pound 'of Candles, J
) 1 he rations arc to be turnilhed infach quantities, as that
these shall at all times during the said term, be fuiiicieat
for the coafumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
- troit, Niagara, ,apd Ofwego, for the term of fix month* iu
advance, and at each of the other polls, for the term of
at lsait three months hi advance, in good and whole fame
provisions.is the fame (hall be required. It is to bean*
dorftoud, that the Contractor is to beat the exj-ence and
* ri& of iffub'gthe fHfiplius to the troops at »ach, poll, aud '
that all lodes sustained by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the troops of the Unifed States, fliaU be paid
for at the pricc of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the depositions of two or more persons of creditable cha
racters, and the cercis«ate of a commiflioncd oflicar, af
pertaining the eircumftances of the loss, and the amount
oi ths ai tides for which oompenfaaoa {hall be claimed
1 '■ OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
e ——— 1
By Authority.
1 Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
[ Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South Sicond-Jlreet.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For raiftng Sixty Thcufand Dollars, agre'ably to an Aft of
the Legiflatui-e of Pcnnfylvaaia, pasTed daring the laif
klliOn, for building a Stode Bridge over the River
; Schuylkill, at the £o.*u g h of Reading, in the County of
I i ■ t „ „ Dollar,.
1 Prnce of 20,000 Dollars . so OOQ
1 do. of *©,000 do. . . lo ; ooo
3 do. of 5,000 do. . . , - )000
4 do. ot 2,000 do. . . B>ooo
so do. of ~000 do. - - . - ao.ooo
39 t lO - of 6 oe do. . . ,
80 do. of aoo do. . .
' 400 Q * of 100 do. .
?°° d .°- 0 5° A °- _ - - i£,ooo ■
do. ,or 500 do. to be paid the poffcf- >
for of the Hrit drawn no. { s°®
5 do. of 3,000 do. to be paid possessors )
of the five lafl drawn nos
9,400 do. o x S do. : . i 4 i,oop
I 3c?o,c©o
blanks .
Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
AM Prizes fnali be paid fifteen days after the drawing ts
fun med, upon the demarfd of a poifcflor of a fortunate
jicicet, fubjeel to a deduction of twemy per cent. The
Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickets are dlfpof.d
of, or perhaps foouer. of which public notice be given.
Philip VliHer, Peter Ktrjhncr, William Witman,
J'ifi'ph liiejler, James £)iemer._ Thomas Dundas.
Jw May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Cratf,
Sebajkan Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the gth, i7yS
Tickets in the Canal Lotter'y, No. i, to be had at the
above olhse, where the earlicft intormation of the draw
ug of the Walhington No. a, and Patterfon Lottery's,
are received) aud. dieck books for examination and iceif
tering are kept. ' ®
' ° anber T- zawtf
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
Na.6j South Third £!»reet,oppofite the national new Bank«
SAMUEL M FR .UNGES andjoHN VAN REED^
have entered into co-paftnerfllip, under the firm of
FRAUNCES & VAN RLED, in the business of Brokers.
Conveyancers and Comniifiton merchants. They buy and
fell on commission every lpe.es of ilock, notes of hand
Dills of exchange, hoafes aiid lands, &c.
-.Monev procured cn deposits, &c. &c. all kinds of
writing, in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and
dilpatch; Accounts a'djufted, and books fettled, in the
mod correct manner. Coaftant attendance will be given
Tjiey solicit a fiiare of the pnblk favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmofl secrecy observed.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES.
JOHN VAN REED
_J>hilad. Augufl 27, 1796. m&wtf
Lottery and Broker'TOffice,
No. 64, South Second street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 3, for fele 3
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
Ishe late lottery. r
Check Books kept for examination and reriftering for
the City of Waihington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries
both of which are now drawing—inferjnation v.h«H- a
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New.
Port Long-Whajf, Hotel and Public School Lottery for
examination. 1 '
The fu'ofcriber solicit, the application of the public
and his friends, who wish tq purchase or fell Bank Stock
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Jioufes, Lands*
c. or to obtain money oa deposit of property. '
t.« Also Tickets, ip the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery f«-
sale at Tea Dallcrs each, which will be drawn early in
the Spriog. 1 "
Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Au?ujl 18, 1796. mt^
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNQ
•—No. 1x9 —
Ci' P SNUT-STH E E i.
[I'ricc* Eight Dollats p«r Annum.} *