~ i ■ ' .v.
tttt of the 6 s Philadelphia Daily. Advertiser.
Nvmbe* SATURDAT EVENING, FEBRUART u, - [Volume XI.
Dr. Perkins
INFORMS theCitii n« of Philadelphia, that he has taken C
lodgings for a few days, at the Indian Queen, in 4th »-
street. He will be happy to wait en any ]-erfon» in this
city, between the hj»urs of 9 and J, vfrho wiih to fttirfy
themlelves of the efficacy of his
PA TEXT METALLIC POINTS
And will operate gratis for the relief of the poor: the
inftrumenta, and the rigjit of using them, are for sale at
his loHjings.
Subjoined. are Extrafls from a Pamphlet, containing ma
- By remarkable csfes ( attested by charailers of the high
e:t refpeAa'ility •
LxtraSs from Letters to the Author of the Metallic Kfctmery.
PjiAfOMT Edwahos, Elq. DiilriA Attorney for the state
of CouneSicut.
New-Haven, 06tober 7, 1796,
Dear Sir,
I Ihould have written you lad week, had 1 then been
able to afccrtain certain fa<sU, the rumour of which I had
heard. A Mrs. Beers, a near neighbour to me, the wife
of Ehen Beers, and daughter of captain Samuel Hoggins,
of this town, had been, for fourteen weeks, exceedingly
uiftreffed with the Rheumatism, to such a degree that for
fourteen week* previous to the 19th of last month, she
had not keen able to walk aercjfs the room even with crut
ches favc only once, when Ihe made out with the nflift
ance'of crutches to hobble part of the way acro s her room. T
On the 19th of September last, (he procured a set of your ti
mctvllic fubiWes, and in lefsthan an hour after she had
Ke £ un to use them, in the manner dirtied by you, she o
rose from her chair, and walked about her house, and on a
the next dav Ihe went abroad to her neighbours, having
thrown aside her crutches. I have this day paid her a visit v
■in company with-her lather, and Timothy Jones, Esq. I
who lives in the street where she reQdes and directly op- si
posit- to her rrfidence, and with Capt. Abel Burrett, who it
is her nex'- neighbor, and lives within eight yards of her a
door. -1 requested her to relate her cafe over in their tl
pre fence, which she did, and thefts gentlemen all with one t]
voice, fu'ppurted, from their own knowledge, her story. 'r
,|t is a duty whifh yoa owe yourfijf and the world to pro- t
Bulge this event. ' I am, very refyeftfully, . v
Your obedient f»rvant, I
NRRPONT EDWAR»B.
N. B. She fays her fever has left her, her appetite has c
returned, and (he is in a fairway to be rellored to perfect a
health. 11
Rev. Mr. Spalding, of Salem. d
This may certify, that the fubferiber, i n his visits among t
his people, has used Dr. Perkins's metallic paints, to re- t
•liere paias and inflammations of various kinds, and has i
•succeeded to his aftoniihment. They have seldom failed
to relieve the head-aeh, tceth-ach, ague in the face, in-- 1
flauimati.;* in the eyes, cramp, cholic, rheumatism, pains 0
of the bread and lid., biles, scalds and burns—Sometimes 1
there has been a perfed: cure from one operation. A lad
who had been confined three days with high symptoms of t
a fever, very hot and full of pain, by an operation of the 1
points, designed to relieve his head, his face tamed pale 5
andi cold, his fever and pain immediately left him, and in 1
a few days he was out of doors ; the year before, at the
fame feSfon, he was taken with the fame symptoms, and ji
lay extremely Tick forty .lays. The efficacy of the metal
lic points has gained great credit" in this town. (
JOSHUA SPALDING* h
December 5, 1796. d
Rey. Elhanan Winchester, c
I certify, that on the 21ft of March, 1796, I saw Dr. t
Perkins's method of cure by pointed metallic instrument*,
tried with success in the poor-house or bettering-houfe in
yi.il.. d ; firperiall.y npan a man who was unable to ]
lift his right hand to his head, as was tried beforehand, but c
who after a few minutes operation, was able to remove it C
at pleasure ; and in my fight, put it with ease on the top
of his head and back of his neck, and in all dire&ions.
Nearly the fame eflfeA took place up»n a woman ; and
all that I saw treated, profeffed that their pains <"eased
after being treated a Ihorftime : ana feyeral came volun
tarily , and in tny hearing thanked the Dr. tor cures he !
had performed on them about eight weeks before, in re-- '
moving pains from them, which they declared had not
since returned :—fo that from what I saw with my own
-eyes, and what I have heard, I have great hopes that this
methed will greatly tend to alleviate the miseries of man
kind. ■; ELUANAN WINCHESTER.
Philadelphia, April 4, 1796.
Extract from a Providence Papsr.
Communication.
Dr. Perkins's invention for removing pains from the
human body, begins to obtain reputation in proportion
to its utility and efficacy. The Cmplieity of the operati
on was at firft an obstacle to its credit; butithe flood of c
vidence in its favof, from a&ual experiment, is at length
too powerful to be refilled.
February 7. drweotf
~ ~Mrs7~G RATTAN
Refpe<ftfully informs her friends, the public in
general, that on Toefday the icthday of January, •
(lie prt»pofeg opening, at No. 39, North Sixth- '
street, i
A Linen and Mufiin Warehouse.
Book Muslins, from 6/3 to 12/11 per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to g/8 per yard
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to loftib per yard
fine Coffaes
Tambour'd Book Muslins, from 13/910 yard
India Mufiin, from 11/3 to 15/ per » .rd
Sheeting Mufiin
Jaconet mufiin Handkerchiefs, frem 4/3 to 6/ per hdkf.
Book mufiin Handkerchiefs fiom 5/3 to Tq/T) per hdkf.
Mufiin color'd and bofder'd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchiefs
TambouV 'd Cravats from iq/B to lift I
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/3 to 16/3 per yard
Table Cloths
Huckaback Towelling
Women's Cotton Hole, from to 13/ per pair
Dimity from ;fio to 6/ii *
Men's Sil 1 : Hose '
Tambour'd mufiin Handkerchiefs from I ifl t to iJ/"»
Irish linens for Oentlen en's Shirts, from SfS to 2/7
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, &c. &c.
Heolhold Linen, See. &c.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 3 1-2 dollars,
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 6 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and marked, 5 1-2 dollars.
A' full ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
< A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 1-2.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 1-2 dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Linen included.
January 13. u £_
For Sale,
At the Office of the Editor of the Gazette of the
United States,
A FEW COPIES OF
" An account of the Receipts and
»f the United States, far the year 1795."
•; * v - - ; i
i V ' '
City of Washington.
Scbeme of the Lottery, No. 11, for the improvement
of the Federal City.
A magnificent ) 10,000 dollars, 4 J
dwelling-house, j cafli 30,000, are J ,a u
1 ditto 1 j ,OOO & cash 25,00® 40,010
1 drtto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000 ' r
t ditto 10,000 & cifh io,oon 20,000 \
I ditto 5,000 & caih 5,000 20,000 .
1 ditto "j.00»,& ea!h -,000 10,000 !
t wish prize of "10,000 r
% do. 5<° n ° e*ch, are • 10,000 c
10 do. I,boo - - 10,000 t
20 do. 500 - . ; 10,000
00 do. .100 - • 10,00©
200 do. 50 10,000
400 do. 25 - - 10,000
1,000 do, 20 - 20,000
15,000 do. lo - 150,000 I
*6,739 Prizes.
33,261 Blanks.
' 1
50,000 at E:ght Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To fivour those who may take a quairtity of
Tickets, (he prize of 40,000 doliaf s will be the la 8T drawn >
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one : f
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days atter drawing, will be received for
any number not less rhan 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afForti an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ertited in the City of Washington—
Two beautilul deGgns are akeady iele<sted for the entire
tronts on two of the public squares ; from these prawings
it ispropofed to ereel two centre and four corner buildings,
as soon as poHlble after this lottery is fold, and to convey j
them, when complete, to the fortunate advmtunrrs, in f
the manner defcribcd in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery, c
A nett dedu6lion of five per, cent, will be made to defray I
the neceifary expenses of printing, the furpU;!\
will be made a part of the fund intended for the Nation<f)
Univerfity,'to the city of Washington. f
The Drav.ing will commence as soon as the tickets arc I
old off.—The money prizes wijl be payable in thirty dars 1
after it i 9 finifhed ; and any prtzei for which fortunate '
numbers aie not produced within twelve months after the 1
drawing is closed, are to be confidcred as given towards;
the fund for tht University ; it being determined to fettlej
the whole bufmefs in a year from the ending of the draw- j
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real for the payment of the Prizes, 1
are held by the President and two Dire&ors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount of the lottery
The twenty four genjtlemen who by appointment of
the late Corvmiffioners assisted in tjfie managemcn ; of the
Hotel Lot-tery are requested to undertake this arduous task
\ second time on behalf ©f the public ; a fuificie*:t nura
Jsr of these having kindly r.ccepted, it is hoped that the
iends to a National University and the other federal ob
je&s may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the dijfterent parts_of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the pickets
have .been sent for sale, the public are assured that the
drawing will speedily commen«e, ami that the carc and
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of
th« rendered the inur fufpe.v)fion indifpenlabk.
SAMUEL bLODGKT.
Tickets may be had at; the Bank of Colombia ; of
Jaaies Well &Co Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, Boflon •
of John Hopkins, Richmond : and of Richard W>lts
Cooper*s Ferry. to
Xtfck For '-Sligo and Killibegs,
i The American Ship Naxct,
Cuthbert Riggs, master.
jfet&ilj.hJ Will fail with all convenient speed. For
Freight or pafl'age apply to
William Bell;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunlts Printed Cottons, well afTorted
3 Bales liifh FlanneU, and 2 boxes Linens
25 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine; Indigo. Ruflia Matt!.
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, 1796, iawtf
For Sale or Charter,
The Ship DIANA,
Samuel Pile, Master,'
Kjy I iijsL Burthen 205 47-95 tens register, built in
Philadelphia in the year 1792, of live oak
and red cedar, and was (heathed 13 months ago, she
has just had a compleat out-fit, and may be sent to sea
at a very trifling expenr f
For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin Iff Co.
tTbq have fur sale on hard said -vcjel,
27 calks of fine yellow paiwt.'
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing dates.
1 box ink stands and note prefle*.
14 bales of fail canvass.
And on hand,
Imperial ~)
Hyson, and, > TEAS.
Souchong )
4e,0e0 pieces Nankeen* of the firft quality.
19 tubs Quickfiiver.
1 chests Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few chert/ Manchester goodswell afTorted in Cor
duroys, thichfets, Ginghams, MuUiiiet?, Dimities, &c.
boxes black sewing silk.
180 crates Queens ware well assorted.
10 tons Iheet lead.
Nails assorted, flat and sharp points.
London Particular, Madeira Wjnein pipes
London Market, r an( j (j o g(}ieads.
: New-York Market, J *
40 pipes and 10 hogifceads Tenerifie wine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
230 logs Mahogany.
Nov 7- tth&ftf
FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP MART,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
Two hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, Ihe will tak
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Oilober 31. d
for Sale.
E A valuable SOAP and CANDLE Maoufzflory, fituite
in a convenient part of the city ; ihe works almost new.
on an entirely original conftruftion, ai*d built of the best
1 materials, and mav be set to work immediately. Perfoni
who with to purchase, are requested to apply at No 173,
' South Second Street. September 13. 1t I tt
To the Citizens of Philadelphia.
I ONCE more come forward to trouble you with a Sub
(cription. Read Mr. Barlow's letter to your|fi>vern
*i 'nt, relating to the American Captive# at Algiers, and
excuse me.
ON MONDAY NEXT,
My Elephant will be exhibited for th« Benefit of those (
molr unfortunate fellow-lnfferei s and brothers. The price
will I - optional; but not less than 1-4 of a dollar—chil
dren id r Aanti ut half price t ihalf attend myfclf and
I wiliß— '»> »r hi.k-1- of tb' citiz -;ir. ndered t'«(< -
their country, and reqtitft thmi to he that Jny at the place
of the exhibitita. On I'ttofday price' ©f admifii<>n will
be hall a dollar. \ BT. MARY. I
The other Printers are raquefted to publilh the above.
February 10 3t
A Principal Book-Keeper
IS wanted in one of the Public Office*. £n<|uiraof the
Printer. February to §6t
Five Dollars Reward.
LOST, about te i daysftr.ee, a small SPANISH DOG,
white, dappled with yellow—(harp ears, small head,
long hair, inclining to curl ; occasionally limps on one
hind leg ; anfjr ers to the name of Damon. Whoever
will bring hiin id No 104, corser of Spruce and 3d '
streets, shall receive the above reward.
February 9 tf&t3t
S W A N N'S ;
Riding $cboo/ t Hcrfe Academy l*f Infirnuiry f
Adjoining the Public Square. Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS hi* sincere tot gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, d»rln£ his refideucc in tbi* C'ty, an,d
Hattershimfelf that the success cii his efforts, in the numerous,
obstinate and dangerous diseases in Horses, in which he bas
been conlulted, together with hi« moderate charges, will (e
---ure their fuiurt 'avors and recgnjmcTTrfgtToir
-9• m anu t'w nnb'ic a L lar^e
rhat his lpacious and commodious premises, erected for the
purposes above defer 1 bed open for the reception of pupils
of either sex, who wiih to in the Art of
and the method ot governing their horses. so as to ride
them with cafe, elegance and fafcty—their 'horses will be
carefully and expediiiouily broke, for every purpose, and
made obedienjC to. he will of the riders ; the natural powers,
which are shut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all those be3Utie» of action which providence has so bounti
fully beiiowed on them.
/Mfo, at hij. l ofpual, every disorder to which the horse is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the above inftitation h?s never been qneftion
ed, that it has long bee» wanted in this city, every gentleman's
stud witlmanifeft, and T. Swann as the tir(l ctlablifher ot
the veterenavy art, solicits and relies upon the of that'
public (which he is ever anxious in fervihgV to enable frim to
. biingit to perfe&ion. The idea of a fubfeription for that,
purpose has beeu hinted by ftveial gentleman, who wiih to
promote the inllitution Jhe amount of each (übfcripcion to
be returned by in any of the proieffes,
51 agreeable to the rate of charges (fated in his hand J?iil.
1 fubicriptvon is now open, and the fignzturcs of many refpeift
af>le gent'lcineu already «»btained. He therefore injorms hi?
fviends and fu-h Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the*lionorof known, that he shall in a few days take
the l<>ert\of waiting upon them and folic king their support
f and prouiiion.
Horses are properjy prepared for those LadiesSfod
Gcnrlertienwho wish to be inftrutted.
Nov. 5. tth&f.
James M'x^lpin,
No. 3, South Fourth fire ft,
RETURNS h s grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for th«sr liberal encouragement,
and begs lefrve to I'oUcit a continuance of their favors.
He has on hand an extensive of the
Mali Fajhionqble GOODS,
And of th; hefl quality, suitable for the fcafon.
At tliis ftiop Geatletnen ca« be furniihed with the baft
materials, and have them made up in th ' neatcft and mod
-Fafhionnble manner, and'on the fh or left notice. He wJI
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and ,
punAual attention to them.
November io. ws
1 All Perlons having Demands
Against the Estate of the late Thomas franklin,
deceased, are desired to bring m their accounts for
settlement ; and those indebted to make immediate
1 payment, to ISRAEL PLEASANTS, p
t WALTER FRANKLIN, or >- **■
t SAMUEL R. FRANKLIN, )
1 January 14th, 1796. eo2w
1
PROPOSALS,
For carrying the Mails of the United
x States,
On the following Pofl Roads, •will he received until
thefirjl day of March next inclusive -
I. From Charleftun, S. C.. by Jackfonboro' and Coofa
hatchy, to Savannah, twice a week. Receive the Mail
at Charlafton every Tuelday and Friday by 6, P. M. and
deliver it at Savannah thy next Friday and Monday, by 8
A. M. Returning, receive the Mail at Savannah eve y
Saturday, by 6, P.M. andWednefday by 6, A. M. and
deliver it at Charleston the next Tuesday and Friday
by noon.
Proposals for this route will be received by tbe pojl-mafter at
Savannah.
i. From Coofahatchy to Beaufort once a week—
Receive thd mail at Coofahatchy every Thursday by 6,
p. m. and deliver it at Beaufort by noon on Friday. Re
turning, leave Beaufort every Friday by 3, p. m. and arrive
at Coofahatchy on Saturday by 8, a. m.
Proposals for carrying the mail on this route will be re
ceived by the pofl.-mafter at Beaufort.
Note 1. The Poft-maftef General may alter the times
for the arrival and departure of the mails at any time du
ring the continuance of the contracts, he previously flipu
c lating an adequate compensation for any extra ezpence
1 that may be ocoafioned thereby.
Note 2. For every hours delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in arriving after the times prescribed by con
tract, the contra&or shall forfeit one dollar, and if the
delay continue until the departure of any depending mail
an additional forfeiture of five dollars shall be incurred.
D Note 3. Should any person making proposals desire an
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe
cified, he must state the alteration delired and the price
he will carry the mail for with and without such alte
ration.
Note 4. The contra&s are to be in operation on the
firft day of April next and to continue until the 30th of
September in the year 1800.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
\ P»jl Master General.
s General Pofl Office, >
t Philadelphia, Jan. 13,1797. J
lan, i£. lawfrwv
Elegant Briifiels k Turkey Carpeting,
1 For fak by George Dobfon, No. 15, South Third-street.
December 15. dtf
Mahogany and Logwood.
A Cargo for Sale on board of the (hip Sally, captain
Gelfton, jTift arrived from Honduras.
Apply to i 11
PHILIPS, CRJMO.VD & Co.
Febrnary 9 »
* JUST -AS RIVE I),
By thejDanifh ship Friendlhip, captain Matzen, from
Oporto,
Red Por£ Wine,
In Pipes, Hoglheads am! Qaarter-Caflcs,
150 Boxes of Lemons,
(For Sale by
Philips, Cramond isf Co.
February 9 $
Red Clover Seed.
Fresh red Clever Seed of the best quality, in bags of
5 bushels each
Madeira wine in pipes, fit for immediate use
Teneriffe wine in pipes, hogsheads and quarter casks
Dittd do. of firii quality, for the use of private
families
Coffee in hoglheads
Jamaica spirits
Connecticut soap in small boxes
Window glass and Spanish. fegars, and
Two trunks of best patent, plain and ribbed silk and
cottcsn hosiery, forfaleby
JOHN CRAIG.
February 1. ' wff&mtf
For Sale,
-By-Q-enrfp; I>c£3hamps, No. QI,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoakrd Harring in barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or single one
Dry Codfifh, from one to fifty kentals
Fine and coarse Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the stone
and ground, for manure and ftucco-.work
December 1 tthScf
For Sale
By private confraS, a very valuable EJlate, known by
the name »f
C H AT H A M,
MOST delightfully situated on the north bank of Rap
pahanock river, opposite the town of Fredsriekfburg, in
the state-os Virginia, confiding of eleven or fiiteen hun
dred acres, as may best suit the putchafer. There is on
this estate, a large and well built brick house, containng
nine commodious rooms, exclufiveof a spacious hall or en
try, 22 feet pair of stairs, suitable and conven
ient piffa-jes, rfnd excellent dry cellars. It is placed on a
fine hclthy eminence, commanding beautiful vuws ia
every dire&ton over the towns of Frederickiburgh and
Falmouth, and an extensive cultivated country. —The
ground! adjoining the house are neatly laid Out in pleas
ure end kitchen gardens intsrfperfed with a variety of
scarce trees, achoice coile&ion of flowers and flowering
{hrubs, and enriched by various forts of the following
fruits, viz apples, pears, walnuts, chefnuts,cherries,peach
es, plumbs, ne&arines, apricots, grapes, figs, ralberries,
gocieberries.ftrawbemei, and currants; the whele admi
rably varied by turfed slopes which have been formed by
great labour and expence. Bordering upun theft im
provements, ate leveral lots, in a highitate of cultivation,
and well set with red clover and orchard grass, from
which three heavy crops of hay are taken every year. Ad
jacent thereto are two large and flourifhing orchards; one
of well chosen peach trees, the ether of apple and pear«
trees, felexftedfrom the best nurseries in the Hate. Pro
perly detached from the mansion house are extensive
room/offices of every denomination, viz a Kitchen and
Larder, ho'ufe-kecper's room and Laundry, with a cellar
underneath for a variety of purposes, a flore-loufe and
smoke house allof brick, a dairy and spring house of ftonek
Stables for thirty horses, an J coaeh houses for four car
riages. Also a large and well planned farm yard, v ith
barn and granary, a cow house, with separate [stalls for
thirty-fix grown cattle; apartments for fattening veals,
muttons and lambs ; extensive feeds for sheep, and other
arrangements for stock of every description, with a large
and convenient receptable for provender, from which they
can be furnilhed without being exposed to the inclemency
of the weather. An overseer's house, blacksmith's (hop,
and quarters fufficient to accommodate in the best man
ner more than fifty labourers.
The arable lands are f» advantagcoufly divided as to af
ford an opportunity of making a lirgfi quantity of Indian
corn annually, without bringing the field into similar cul
ture oftner than once in four years; consequently the
lands may be improrved by keeping up the inclofures during
the intermediate years, or may be beneficially fallowed for
wheat and other grain at the option of the proprietor.
On the prcmifes there is also a merchant mill with one
pair of best French burr stones, and one pair of Cologne ;
furnilhed with modern machinery, and now leafed for the '
unexpired term oi four years, at 1501 per annum, and all
grain for the use of the farm, hopper free, which is near
ly 1001. more. The mill and miller's house are built of
free stone, within a very fraall distance of navigation,near
to which are two or more valuable lilhcries, and a well
accustomed ferry over the Rappahannock to the town of
Fredericklburg. The land con tains inexhaustible quarries
of free stone near to the river, is plentifully supplied with
remarkable fine water and poflefles a due proportion of
meadow, which by having the command of water may
be eonfiderably increased. The roads are good, and the
neighbourhood genteel and sociable. In fall, exclusive of
an improveable and well conditioned farm, the value and
emolument inseparably connected witn a mill, ferries,
fifheries and quarries eligibly fltuated ; the profits ariling
from an ice-house inferior to none in the state, and a gar
den of four acres so abundantly stocked with vegetable!
of 4 all forts as to be fully equal to the demand in market,
th»re might be detailed many other advantages, apper
taining to the fertility of these lands, which the fubferiber
conceives ituaneceffary to mention, being fully convinced
that when examined, it will be found to be a complete,
pleafaKt and healthy residence, poffefling beauties and
conveniences fufficient to attra<9 the attention of any per
son desirous of becoming a purchaser
The motive which induces the fubferiber to offer for
sale an estate so Angularly beautiful and advantageous, is
a desire to become an inhabitant of Alexandria, where be
can with more ease attend to his interests in the neigh
bourhood Of that city
The p«r<;hafer may be accommodated with a fe*r slaves
in families, either for plantation or doraeftic use. A part
of the purchafc money will be required and the balance
made easy, the debt being properly secured.
WILLIAM FIT2HUGH.
Ghatiam, (Virg.) Dec. 19, 1796. nth—jawam.NORFOLK, January £1.
COMMUNICATION.
The Herald of yesterday has the following para
graph, viz.
" Yesterday a fracas of a serious nature took
piste in PortfmoHth, between the crews of the
French frigates and feme of the inhabitants of the
town, in which we are confidently informed a very
adtive Magistrate and a few of the most refpe&able
inhabitants'were severely wounded. How this un
fortunate altercation took place, we cannot at pte
fert Rate."
The occurrence which gave rife to the above pa
ragraph was (imply as follows :
Sundry persons belonging to the Medusa frigate
being somewhat intoxicated on Sunday lad, came
into the town of Portsmouth, and there were guilt/
of a breach of the "peace, by fighting with each
other.—A magistrate of the town chancing to pass
at that time thought it his duty to interpose his
authority and accordingly had one of the greatest
offenders taken into ctiftody, whom he ordered to
be sent to jaiU
All further riotous proceedings were thus quelled
for the time, by this measure, as well as through
the exertions of an officer oftbe frigate who hap
pened to be present. But whilst the constables
were about to conduit their prisoners to the coun
ty jail, they were overtaken by a boat with several
men belonging to the Medusa, who rescued the pri
soner-—they were however immediately hailed and
ordered to come on shore by the officer above men
tioned ; they obeyed the summons, when the pri
soners were again delivered to the Magistrate. A;
number of the Medufa'screw, however hearing the
disturbance aod not knowing what had given rife
thereto, came forward armed, and a second time j
took the prisoners out of the hands of the officers of
the peace—Some refinance was made, and it was
here that the magistrate received, what he himfelf
"calls a flight scratch, in the thigh fronT a bayonet.
Thus ended this " serious fraeas," iti which it han
been said a " Magiftratea few of ik* tnaft rgf.
" peCtable inhabitants were severely wounded."
The Consul of the French Republic has done e
very thing in his power to make fatisfa£lion—he
lias ordered the man to be given Bp to the law, and
eight of the most culpable are now in confinement.
Uncommon industry has however been used to give
this affair the word afpeft—and such were the re
ports current that we believe {he Editors oftUe He
rald, cannot with justice be charged with adefign to
raifreprefentj ( Am. Gaz.)
NEW-YORK, Feb. 9.
At a meeting of theJ)emocratic Society of Phila
delphia, held en Thursday the 9th January, 1794,
the following refutations [among others] were
unanimously agreed to.
6th. " Resolved that the conduct of the mari
time powers at war with the French republic, in
prohibiting the exportation of our produce to
France and her colonies, and in ieizing our vessels
laden with provisions for that country, is a daring
infringement of the established law ewf nations, and
ought to be resented with a proper spirit.''
7th. " Resolved, that we conceive we oaght to
resent the outrageous tonduS of Great Britain in im
pressing our seamen, in leizing our vessels on the
high seas and detaining them in their ports on the
most frivolous pretences—and in short, in carrying
on against this country a covert of insidious war
fare, which evinces her fear of our power, at the
fame time that it Can leave us no doubt tf her hatred
and enmity." [Signed] ,
JOHN SMITH, Sec'ry
As the French afe now outrageously seizing our
vessels on the high seas and detaining and condemn
ing them when bound to-their enemies ports in vio
lation of their treaty, as well as the law of nations ;
the foregoing resolutions are recommended to the
notice of the republicans, who celebrate the anni
versary of onr treaty with France,
From the Minerva.
I \ *
[From a Cbrrefpenderit>.]
THE democrats call the federalifts the Briti/h
party, who in turn retort upon the democrats the
appellation of French party.
Time, the great friend of truth, (las at length
decided these crofs-adtions in his high court of ap
peal. For we have had British spoliations on our
trade ; and French fpolintions. The conduit of
the two parties on these two oecafions forms a faith
ful ted of their real principles. Words are but
■wind, and arc most lavishly used when th<re is the
most occasion to deceive.
The federalifts did not jujlfy the British fpolia
■ tions—the democrats do those of the trench, and
!fay we have provoked them—such traatment it good
•enough for us, &c.
The federalifts said, try negociation fit ft. Se
•quefter British debts, said the demos—No envoy
No treaty—Reprisals—Embargo—Prohibit com
merce, &c.
As to French spoliations, federal men, troe to
their old principles, iofift, we mnfl cultivate har
mony with all nations—gen. Pinckney we (.ope will
remove the affe&ed pretexts of French complaint.
The democrats not content with this, multiply ex
pressions of affedtion for France and their ctirfes on
our own government —instead of demanding jus
tice, they encourage more captures—they give a
flipper to Barney for psblifhing his orders-to plun
der his own countrymen.
Yet the democrats called our feuding an envoy to
Great Britain pufillar.imcut.
The propriety of this charge is also put in its true
light by facts The Federalists avowed that if Bri
tain refufed justice, they wouldfight her—but to
alk for it, feeiued too puiillanimous to tile Scmo
cratfc heroet.
France has played the pirate on onr trade in con
tempr of treaties. The Federalists fay not a word
about fighting France, they move in Cungrefe no
fequeflration or prohibition acts or embar;j.->. The
champions of ibcfe honefiand wife meafure# are now
mute. Nay, because it.p FederaliKs speak of rfs
tional faith and juitice, the DementschargAthcm
%mh a defiento make war on France. The>'; Ga
ieties proclaim that the firft gun fired ag aloft Franc*
will be our ruin,
Tn a word, th 1 " Mnfefl en Federal *n<3 De
mocra'ic conduit in the cafe of Briti/h a»d Frdnc!
fpoliaiiwni, completely prove that the former ate
not the British party ; they are truly the Americans.
If the Democrats are not in French pay, it is e
qtially established by facts, they are degenerate A
mericans.
These ideasaretoo obvious to escape the ptsblic
difcernmcnt. To connteraft them, the Democrats
already begin to attack ana accuse the Federalists
of ince:>fiftency.
Latest Foreign Intelligence.
[By the Magnet, Choate, arrived at Bollon, in 50
days from Liverpool.]
ARMY OF ITALY.
From 1 Paris paper of Dec. r-
Until we (hall leceive the reports of the command
er in chief Buonaparte, the adtivity of the operations
of the army of Italy not having y(t allowed him to
give an account of the fucceflea he has obtained, we
publish here a letter from general Berthier, command
er of the general ftaff, containing an analysis of his
glorious victories. 4
The divisionary general commander of the slate, to
general Baraguay d'Hilliers, commandant of Lom
bardy.
" Head-quarters at Verona,
" Nov. 19, sixth year.
" At length, my dear general, after the boldest ma
noeuvres, the most obflinate confliits, and eight days
spent without taking off our boon, w> have just de
feated general Alvinzy and his array, which we have
pursued to'Vincenza. Five thousand prisoners, three
tiioufand men killed and wounded, four flags and twelve
guns are the fruits of these vidtories. Alvinzy is about
rto rally behind the Brenta. —Davidovich, who is ig
norant of what i« become of Alvinzy, Is on the right
bank of the Adige, after having forced Vaubois' di
vision, and having advanced to the other fide of'Ki
voli. We are fearful that h« is retreating , if he is
flill at this time in his positions, to-morrow he will be
ours, with the fix thousand men he commands. Five
I'armee d'ltalie .' Mantua will soon be in the hands of
the Republicans.
" Never were anions fought with so muth ebftina
~cy. We have had two generals mortatly wounded, &
five others of whose recovery hopes are entertained.
Amotig the killed we reckon two of the commander in
chief's aids-de camps, and an adjutait-gencral.
" I have not time to fay any more. We have still
to fight. There will be no repose until the enemy
(ball be destroyed.
(Signed) « ALEX. BERTHIER."
Message from the Executive Directory to the Councils,
dated 10 Fritaaire, Nov. 30, fifth year.
" Citizens Legislators,
" We wait impatiently for the official difpatchcs
of the commander in chief, Buonaparte, to communi
cate to you the decisive viflory which hasjuft been ob
tained under his command, by the army of Italy. Ne
ver was that brave army placed in so critical a pofitien.
The enemy had made the greatcft tftey had
brought from the interior of the states all that they
had left of dilpofable forces. These troops they had
marched to their deftinalion with the utmost lpeed,
and had eontrived 10 form in Italy a new army, more
considerable than the two former, already exterminst
ed, before the fuccorsfent from the interior of France,
to the commander in chief Buonaparte, could form a
junction with the army of Italy. It required nothing
less than the genius of that intrepid warrior, the ta
lents of the general officers and of the individuals who
seconded them at the price of their blood, and the zeal
and constancy of all our brave brethren in arms, to
triumph over so many obstacles which the despair of
our enemies had opposed to us.
" The refalt of the bloody conflidls, which were
fought for eight successive days, is the loss «n the part
of the enemy of twelve thousand men in killed, wound
ed and prisoners, four flags and eighteen guns. The
present petition of the armies promises new fuccefles,
and the capture of Mantua, on which the fate of Ita
ly depends.
(Signed) " BARRAS, Prefldent.
" LEGARDE, Sec'ry (Sen.'
%, ' '
Letter of General Berthier, Chief of the Staff of
the army of Italy.
" Head quarters at Verona,
Nov. 19th fifth year.
" The activity in wßich we have been for this
fortnight pad would not permit me to write to you
as often as 1 could have wished, but the command
ant of Lombardy, te whom I sent a summary ac
count of our movements, mull have transmitted yon
a copy of the fame
" Since onr last affair at Caldero, which toek
place on the 22d (N*vembei 12) and wherein,
after an obflinate eombat, the two armies remained
in their positions, general Alvinzy had effetfted his
junction with a column from Tyrol, and had an
army of upwards »f 40,000 men.
" On the 24th (Novembei 14) the hostile ar
my was in prelence, and preparing to give a pitch,
ed battle. General Buonaparte, apprised of the
enemy's jnteations, immediately made moneeuvreS
to fruftrate them.
" I" night between the 24th and 2 jth
(November 14th and 15th) he ardered the division
of general Vaabois t® gaard the position of Rivo.
li, to keep in check the column of the enemy's
right wing, commanded by general Davidovich.
The caftleand citadel of Brescia, Verons, the polls
of Pefchiera and Legnago were in a refpeftable
state of defence. The commander iu etiief sta
tioned some corps of light troops and flying artil
lery to defend the passages of the Adige ; in the
fame night he had a boat-bridge raised at Ronco
;o pass the Adige, to fall unexpefttdly übon gene'
ral Alvmzy's off his communication, feixe
his magazines and his pa r k of artillery, deprive him
of ail means of fiibfiftence, and at last to attack him
from the rear. Before day-break the divisions of
MaUei«a and Angereau had already crossed the
Adige, and advanced on two roads, which erofcan
impassable marfli of several miles.
" JjV ol "™ left, commanded by irc
neral Mafftna, was the firft to fall in with
the enemy 3 out posts, which it worsted; that of
the right, commanded by general Angereau, having
alforepulfed several hostile posts was (lopped .t tl,e
village Areole, occupied by the Auftrians, whose
fire flanked the dyke on which it was necessary to
pass to penetrate thnher. Arcania, whieh bordered
ttiis dyke on the tide of the village, prevented its
bein s turned ; u wa, therefore neeeffary, i„ order
10 become rnaft m of it> to fs th £
and cross a small bridge defended by several I.
| attled houies, from whi#h th? enemy dircfled a
-teirlbli fire. Our troops ptifhci federal ' iirtes For
wards with charge ftcps, to carry the bridge, but
not having in the fi r # isftance displayed the f«me
boldness as they did at the bridge Lodi, they
were repuifed in their repeated attempts; in vain
Ka»! general Angereau, with a Itandard in his hand,
advanced at the head of tjie c«lumn to take Ar
cole.
" The commander in c(iief, wha was informed
of the difficulties which the diviEons of general
Angereau had to sustain, gave orders to general
Guieux to march down the Adige, .with a corps
of 2000 .men, and to pass the river under cover of
our light artillery, at a ferry which was at thedif
tance of two miles below Renco, facing Alberedo ;
he had ordete to march to the village of Arcole to
tarn it : but that was a long march, the day was far
gone ; and it was of the higWeft importp.sce to cap
ture Arcole, in order to get into the enemy's rear
before they were able to learn our movement.
" The commander i* chief advanced with his
whole ftaff at the head of the division of Angereau;
he reminded oar brothers in arms of their being
the fame men that had forced the bridge of Lodi.
He faemed to perceive a fentimant ofenthufiafm,
and was determined tfl profit by it. He leap;a off
his harfe, seized a standard, rushed forwaid at the
head of the grenadiers, and ran tcf the head of the
bridge, crying, " Fallow your General !" The
culumn instantly moved on, and we were at the
distance of 30 yards from the bridge, wheH the ter
rible fire of the enemy aiTailed the column, and
made it fall back the very moment when the enemy
were going to take Sight. It was at the fame in
stant that generals Vignollcand Lafne were wound
ed, and that Muiron, aid-de-camp to the commander
in chief, was killed.
" The commander in chief and his ftaff were
overwhelmed ; the commandei in chief himfelf was
thrown from his horse into a marsh, from whence,
under tKf enemy's fire, he extiicated himfelf with
difficulty ; lit mounted again, the celumn rallied,
and the enemy durst oat come forth from their en
trenchments.
•*' Night began, when general Guieux arrived cou
rageously at the village of Arcole, and finally tarried
I it; but he retired in the night, after having made ma
ny prisoners, and carried off four pieces of cannon.
I he eneipy had had time to be aware of our
movement; they had begun to fend off all their bag
gage and magazines to Vincenza, and concentrated al
most their whole force towards Konco, to give batt.le ;
and before day break they occupied the village of Ar
cole with considerable force.
" On the i6th (Nov. 16.) at day break, the enemy
attacked us on all points ; the column of general Maf
fena, after an obllinate confiiel, worsted the enemy,
took 1500 prisoners, and carried off fix pieces of can
. non and four stand of colours.
" The column of general Angereau likewise repui
fed the enemy, but could not succeed in forcing the vil
lage cf Arcole, which was again attacked several times,
You will judge of the obstinacy of the different attacks
upon this village, where seven generals were wounded.
" The fame evening the commander in chief him
felf marched to the canal on the right of the Adige,
with a column who carried fafcines, with a view of ef
tablifhiug a pafTage, which could not be dome on ac
count of the current ; then the adjutant general Vial,
who was at the. head of the column, forded the canal,
up to his neck in water, but he was obliged to repafs
It : it was at that moment<that Elliot, aid-de-camp to
the commander in chief, was killed. *
" The following night the commander in chief gave
orders to throw a bridge over the canal, aud a new at
tack was combined for the »7th ( Nov 17.) The di
vision of general Ma (Ten a was to attack on the left of
the causeway, and that of general Angereau, for the
third time, the celebrated village of Arcole, while a
third column was to cross the canal to tur» that village.
Part of the gaiifon of Porto Legnago. with'fifty hor
lts and four pieces of artillery, received orders to turn
the enemy s left, for the pvrpofe of operating a diver
sion.
" The attack began at day break, the fight was ob
ltmate, Maffcaa's cblumu met with less obftacies, but
that of Angereau was again repuifed at Arcole, and
tailing back in disorder to the bridge of Ronco, when
t.ie divifiou of Maffena, who had followed the move
ment, made a retrograde moti<!ii towxrds the division
of Angereau, and disposed. itfelf to join it for the pur-
P making a frefh attack upon the enemy, who
were for this time put'no flight, and who, feeing them-
I s turned by the left, were forced at Arcole : then
the route was complete, tlyry abandoned all their posi
tions, and retreated to Vicenza ia the night. I
" On the 28th (Nov. 18,) at day break, part of the
Trench army pursued the enemy to Vicenaa, took se
veral barges laden with their pontoon floret, picked up
lorne prisoners, and many wounded, and the others ar
rived under the -.vails of Verona.
" Bu/mg out success at Ronco, our left wing com
manded at Kivdft, which place the enemy occupies at
this very moment. The right wing of the Imperial
army, commanded by general Davidovich, will be at
tacked to-morrow by superior forces, and mull entirely
tall into our power, or if it evacuates the place, it will
nT/f T/ r ° l Then the arra X of Alv.nzy, se
parated and halt destroyed, must give us Mantua in a
icw days.
" In thole different combats we took about coco pri
loners, 57 of whom are officcrj; killed or wounded a
vatt number of men, took four Hand of colours and
•eighteen pieces of cannon, many caifions, several barges
a en with pontoons, and a .great quantity of fcaiing
adders, which the Auflrun army had procured with
the design ot taking Verona by aflault.
" had several generals woSnded, and two of
d,™, w y o ; L VIZ - Lafne ' Vi E na "e, Verdier, Oar
danne, Bon, Robert and Verne. The aid de Camps of
the commander in chief, Muiron and Elliot, and the
adjutant-general Vardeling, were killed.
(oigt^dJ « ALEXANDER BERTHIER."
toth Frimaire, (Nov. 30.)
we did not ex that Lord Malmcfbury would
II It necefiary to fend a meflenger to his cabinet in or-
I °? lve an answer to the demand of the dire&orv
l^e o^je<^s °f reciprocal compensation,
■ hich he has to propose % It fliould seem, that thefen
_another meDenger, which he has thought re-
En Ifh " i p o ' rU ftr *tagem, empleved by the
whirh "" m ? Wait ,he ifr,le of the S r "t
hazard.T T dec "? m £ 'he fate of Italy, before he
S """""" bt
REMARKS OF THE PARIS EDI TOR.
w nth Frimaire, (Dec. 1.)
of th : s ~ P ',° no " nre with «»ainty that the fate,
n,. 1 . 5 ■ military movement is yet decided. Bv
it appear, that'of the two A.l
tnan arm.es whieu have atted in concert, one is advaa
couß&t h f nk ° f ,he Ad * e ' en
check and Vt i" ° r cx P erientl «g the smallest
> and that the other has Boat with one which has
forced ito retreat to \Venza | h ut th is nofitic, >«.-
ntral «.lrinxy ha .gain made a sensible proerefs fft
.B probable that General DaviJovid , who hi no, re!
treated, will a , ali even!)> trj , the lame movement that
Wurmfcr did, and that he will throw hirafclf into Vl a i
will 171VLZ?\ m Th » block.de
wi be, without doubt, one of the greatest events of
£e war. The zeal of Wurmfer will fee equally "onfi
••y.l
ruDflion. ~f » general, to t*c„ mc ,t, c comniiorfsat' „f
a place, and he has g:vcn proofs of the utrnoft a<StiVl
- and of mditary resources in this new poll.
Army of the Rhine M»felle.
7ht General in Chef to the F.mcutiv, DireOorj
" Head-quarters at Schillikep,
. frrimaire (Nov'22l
" Citizens Diredors, '
Ihe garrison of Kchl made a vigorous l or t,V
the line of ci.cujnvallatW. of the ene-
General Defaix was charged with the c
the part of our troops : the enemv =,),=, J7 J!
their artillery, which was inttantly fp.ked !lcould
we have anticipated a fn*r»>C* f. i <-ouia
artillery horses ready, we taken tte^
off ten pieces. We have made f rom f lx J
hundred pr.foners,- amongst whome arf '<««
ficers, including a Colonel and a M ; ar I u
was the result of this sally. '
As soon as it was «h OUght
corps de reserve was ready to attack m> r i
Defaix taufed the ttoops to return to their'e'n.
trcnchmenu. To attempt'to maintain ourfeWt, in
tKMe oi the enemy, was an operation which was
not amoriglt cfur preje&s.
« The battle was one of themoft obstinate of the
war, and mult have occ&fiosed a confiderahle lofi
©f the enemy. They cannot deny?hat the advan
tage was entirely ours.
I lie loth, 109 h,'and 84.1b, demi brigades per
formed prodifces of valor. It was impossible f nr
me to ascertain all the details ef the instances of in
dividual courage which were displayed on this oc
casion. I hate promised te appoint provifionallr
to the rank of sub lieutenant a ferjeant of the 160 th
who gave proofs of uncommon courage. The
General Officers who conduded the attack merit
the highest culogium.
General Delaix had his horse killed under him,
and was slightly wounded. General Lacombe had
his horse wounded in two places.
Several Officers equally diftingnifhed themfelvei.
rerion and Quefard, chiefs of brigade of the 106 th,
and 84th, were wounded. Mcfliro, chief ef bat
talion of the loth, was araongft the foremoft in
forcing the entrenchments.
The good condi£t of the troops.upon this occa
fien ought to persuade the enemy, that if be is de
termined to attack Kehl, he will not carry it so
ealily as he may have been led to believe.
(Signed)
MMEAU."
Private letters transmitted to the Direftoiy an
neußce, that general in chief Mpresu was fliglitly
wounded in the head with a ball. He had the
modefly not to mention this cir, umfiaice, proba.
fely fjora a desire to avoid all appearance of ostenta
tion.—One of his Aids de Camps had the lower
part of his leg carried away.
In the midlt oftfce preparations on the Rhine
theie are fereral pa.leys for the purpose yf co.k hid
ing an armistice. The Austrian general Krny,
and the republican Bernadotte, have had a new
conference on the suspension of arms, which was
proposed by the F.ench Generals. At the end oF
th" conference general Wetneck, who commands
on the Lower Rhine, dilpatched a courier to the
Archduke Charlei ; and general Boumnnv/lle sent
M. Luyt, the commiflary at war, to Paris, with
lecret inftru&ions.
The Auftrians, who where forty or fifty thousand
men, are now reduced to half thai "number gen
eral Kilmaine has not discontinued the siege of
Mantua, and has repulsed the (ame time
several forties of the besieged, who reckon to much,
upon the fucc«fs of Austrian arms, that they light
ed large fires ai ligns of rejoicing, but it was foot*
necefljiry to extinguish them.
BRUSSELS, Nov. 34.
The Austrian corps, commanded by general
Neu, has again advanced from its entrenched posi
tion before Menft, and taken post on the banks of
the Seltz. The enemy have puttied their advanced
posts even across that river, whlift the French con.
fined themfttlves to concentrate their force within
the line, which extends from Bingen to Kaifetflau
tern. This movement of the Anftrians has btongiit
en feveial smart engagements between the light
troops of both parties, wherein the French and
lir.penalifts have alternately ptnved victorious. In
one of these affairs the republican general Kleiit
surprised the whole chain of the enemy's advanfed
posts, put thern to the rout, took a great number
ol men and Iforfes, and forced the Autlrians to re
crofs the Selt2 in the utmolt csnfuiion.
From the Lower Rhine we learn, that on the
firll of this month fsilt of November) a very
brisk adlion took place' on the bauk of the Siey.
The Republicans attaek the advanced posts if the
Aultrians, who defended themselves id so vigorous
a manner, that the forra«f were obliged to fall
back. 6
The army of the North, encamped in the front of
Mulheim, is under marching orders.
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turnpike
' Company,
January 6, 1797.
At a meeting of the President and Managers, a di
vidend of five dolkrs per fha re, was declared for the
aft half year, which will be paid to the Stockholders,
or their representatives any time after the lift ®f this
south.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treaurer.
JIA. &. '
U Ja*. t.dßtejette'/'* <iimtefc£>tates,
A N «D
Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
PHILADELPHIA, February xi.
stocks.
Six p«rCent. - ....
Three per Cent. ------ - j/15
per Cent. - - -------
oerCent. -
Deferred Six percent. .... nyj
BANK United States, - - - uperct
Psnflfylvariia, - - - - 13 do.
North \merica, ... - 40 do
li.furance C»mJ>. N. A. shares, - xj per ct.
— Pennfylv. par.
CCSURSK OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 day», 61 i-t
_ at 6e days, 60
at 90 days, 57 1-2
Amfttrdam, 60 days, per guilder. 40
. 90 days, 41
The valuable cotton manufaiSory of Mr. Broome,
near Wilmington, was burnt on Tuefiay evening last.
We ire happ) to heap that this loiV does not fail en
tirely on the owner, the greater part being sustained
' by the Insurance Company of North-America, in whefe
office it was irifured.
" A J!erf loses nothing by carrying."
The Dire&ory of France fay that the refiilt of the
bloody c«nftifts in Italy which were fought for eight
fucceffiverfaysis twelve thousand men in killed, wound
ed and pnfeners —four flags and eighteen guns. The
Boston Chronicle states the loss at 17,000 tnen, So
pieces of cannon, and 17 standards.
'
A correspondent who hath the interest of the In
habitants of the Northern Liberties at heart, feeing
the disadvantages they labour under for the want
of pavements, suggests the propriety of a lottery for
railing a fund to defray the expence of paving the
Streets and Footway in raid liberties as more eligi-
He than tax or afleffment, and in which those whose
numbers may not turn up within the foriunateclafs,
may yet be trtjly said not to be a blank—as they
togcther with others may have the pleafute and be
nefit of the pavement and enjoy the fatisfa&ion in
mind of having contributed to so good and laudable
an undertaking conducive to the convenience and
health of the inhabitants.
Extract of a letter from Lt. Colonel Commandant
Thomas Butler, to the Secretary of War, dated
Fort Fayeite, (Pitifburg) I ebrunry 3, 1797.
" lam sorry to inform you that, on the morning
flf the 28th u!t. died at this place of an inflamma
tory fever, the village chief MIS QIJACOO-NA
CAW, or I RED POLE) of the Shawar.fcfe Na
tion. As lie was a man of note in his Nation, I
conceived it proper to have his remains decently bu
sried, which was performed on the 29th with mi
litary parade. His friend, Blue Jacket, seems sen
sible that every attention was paid to him duiing
his illncfs, as well as a proper refpefct to his remains
at burial, and requelfs me tainform you, that tbey
regret the loss of so great a man, and particularly,
at a time When they had come to pay a visit to
the PreG'deßt ; but fays that it has been the cafe
* with them, as with other nations, from the begin
ning of time, to lose their friends, and that he
hopes it will hav<; no tendency to lefTcn the friead
fhipof his nation to the people of the United States,
and that when he returns to his people he will en
courage these fentimer.ts.
I have informed Blue Jacket that I will write
to you for permission to place 3 stone at of
the deceased's grave to point out the place of his
interment to their fiends when they chose to visit
this place, which Was highly pleating to him."
Post Office, Philadelphia, Ftb. it, 1797.
LETTERS, for the British Packet for Fal
mouth, "jji/l be received at this Office until Monday
(he 13 ti> injlant, at 12 o'cloth noon.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
h ARRIVED.
Ship Fame, Junes, London, 7 last frftm
Sally, Gclfton, Honduras J Marcus Hook
Good Friends, Smith, Ham-7
burgh, via New-Yoik, J
Bug Polly, Wro'.h, Port-au-Prince, 7 last fiom
Sally, Collady, do. JM. Hook
Schooner Experiment, J. Poole, 7 ' .
Petit Gonaive, J dayt
* OUTWARBS.
Ship Eagle, Kirkp<Rriek, Londonderry j
Snow Good Hope, Gemmany, Croix
Schooner Harribr, Parker, Charleftofl
Thefchooner Flying Fish, Richard Owens, mas
ter, belonging to Norfolk, was cfvft away on the
east end of Heneaga oti the 22d of January ; vefTel
and cargo loft, captain and crew saved.'
The ship Mohawk, captain Sutherland, from
Barbadoes, laden with rum, for New-York, is car
ried into Guadeloupe. The property of Mr. Fox
Cutts, Pepperelborsugh.
CONGRESS OP tub UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, January 16—Continued.
Mr. Swan wick faidJhat if the gentleman last up could
make good his calculations, he should agree with him
there would be no immediate neceflity for new taxes £
but even if tfcis were the cafe (which he was far from
fceing convinced of) he should wish a fyltcm of dire<S
"xatioh to be commenced, in order to have a certain
Q f revenue; any surplus arising from which
wouid jj t we j| eon ployed in discharging a t>ait as our
publ.c c-Ht.
. ' ' ,c 8 e, ''<-man from New-Jersey (Mr. Henderfon)
ad laid the had never recommended direii
axes ; he believed \he President knew 100 iVetl the pri-
and duties er that Hoi<fe to interfere in any
ing which related origin of revenue ; but lit
a ' K rc at propriety, in his opinion, frequently
rged the necefltiy °f discharging the public debt, a
« which, Mr. S. laid, if oat jot rid of, thie*fened
» the extlnflion of the government itf«!f. Thefiindinp
fyflem, he said, had been the ruin of every cotlstry ft
1 which hid adoped it ; because one generation put off
, to another wiiat was its duty to have done for itfelf,
viz. to pay its debts. A debt of So millions, he said, "
called loudly for exrtnflion. 0
If it was admitted, in order to reduce ourdiebt, and a
make provifisn ror the futuce, frefh revenues were ne- a!
ceflary, it became neceflary for them to compare the d
merits of the two systems proposed to their view for b
raiting this money. They-muft examine the objections j,
against on«, and against the olher The great objee- .
tion urged against a dire<®> tax, was the difficulty of
obtaining m«ney from farmers in remote parts, «nd :
of obtaining a just valuation of property, and the ex- Vl
pence of colle&'iHg the tax. As far as thefc obje&ions I
had any weight, government tiould make efforts ta
1 surmount the difficulties. But it was laid, it would be n
a long time before this tax could be brought into 6pe- t |
ration j if io, it was neceflary to make a beginning,
finee without a beginning they would never expeift to n
come to the end. _ . "
But was it not, he alked, acknowledging a principle ti
dangerous to the exigence of government,<to fay it t
vys impoflible te collea a tax 01, hnd ? [Mr. Harper v
said he ha«l never said or thought so] Mr. S. said he t .
believed fmt such thing hid been said ; the difficulties ,
had been stated by different gentlemen as infurmounta
b'e, and it became neceflary to leruove these difficiil
» ties. Su'ppofe a war was to take plate, was that the 1
• time, he asked, to commence a. fyflem of this kind 1 F
- he believed not. Such a season would be the very fc
' worst for colleifting taxes. And was this country so p
e fltuatcd, there was no poflibility of being involved in g
war ! No matter from what quarter ; whether it was ,
with France or with Kngland, it was neceflary t» guard
against fueh an event by making our revenues sure.
e How could wc meet any foreign nation upon equal 1
t terms in treaty, when they could fay to us, if you f
- not so and so, we will destroy your commerce and pa- 1
e ralyze your revenue. In time of peace, he said, this ,
3 business Ihould be attended to; if it were not, how
would gentleman accofe themselves if war should over- !
take them ? Miey would certainly haye much r&afon
. to do it 1
t With refpea to a land tax, Mr. S. said, it was cer- 1
* tain, equal, and might be collected with little expence. I
For, notwithstanding what gentlemen had said, the- 1
r expence incurred was only at the commencement; as
e when an affeflment was once ma'de it would last for
- many years.
c We know, said Mr. S.that a window tax, a hearth ;
tax, a tiamp tax, and an excise, cause murwurrngs '
and difcontc-nts wherever they are established ; but in. 1
no country has a land|tax be"tn grievous; except, in- i
deed, in France, .where the extenflve property of the }
" elergy and nobles under the old government was ex
e empied from the tax. In England, there wtrt also '
d some ebjeaions to the tax, from its beiog from '
what is called the Dtomfday Boifi (a very antient re- '
cord) by which means the tax falls unequally, ,as, 1
t fin>"e that time, lands have l*o greath - changed iu value, I
j that a new afl'efTment is become neceflary to make the 1
tax equitable and unobje<9ionable.
But, he said, were these not some circum/tances at
r present which marked the time as proper for laying a '
b tax on laitd ? Did not every one know that the very
high price of produce must have put the farmer in a '
- si tu at ion to contribute feme portion to the exper.fes of 1
1- tbe ftateWould they be better able to pay wlien 1
I their produce should become lower 1 They certainly
would not. He was not, he said, more delirous than
■_ others, to call u h ioii country gentlemen, he did it only
from neceflity. VVhen he considered the danger of be
ing left without revenue, he could not refrain from
g making tlfe call, and he believcdtheie would be found
15 virtue enough amongst the farmers, i« bring them
y forward cheerfully to pay what the wants of govern
r> ment required.
9 Hf saw no objection to a land tav that might not be
e removed. Whether the mode recommended by the
gentleman from Miflachufetts ( Mr. Varnurn) or any
other would be best, was not then the quaftign, but
e weald be decided at a proper time. It had been said
1- that farmers paid their proportion of indireA taxes ;
!, if so, he said, they could not complain of a land tax,
, a= that would not fall heavier upon them than any 0-
ther tax would do. But gentlemen said an indiretf
tax cbyld be evaded ; he thought there was no excel
lence in that quality of * tax, but the contrary, fmce
the greatest recommendation of a tax was, that it fell
16 equal. All taxes on consumable articles, he said, bore
it very unequally. A poor family consumed much
rpore of them than a rich small one.
It had frequently been said that all duties upon goods
imported, were paid by the eoiifumers. He believed
this uas not so; and he fancied any one who looked
/- into the vendue stores, asd saw merchandize felling
y for the amount in currency, of what it cost in sterling,
would ruh no riik in faying, that the duty was not
paid by the purchaser, whoever else might pay it.
indirect taxes, lie said, fell very heavy upon per- '
sons who lived upon the iptereft of money, or upon
falatics ; because though they were eontinnally tax
ed by advaHces of duties, their incomes remained
the fame. On that ground, Mr. S. said, they hid
lately bad many applications from their officers for
advances of salary.
Such a fyflem, Mr. S. said, was a proper part,
but not a complete revenue system. In all govern
' tax and inspolU were introduced as pio
per companions ; but here all deponded upon im
port, which was liable at all times to be cut off.
! No gentleman had said any thing in answer to that
y obje£lion Nothing rrfuld be said against the truth
x of that position. How very paflible was it, he said
" that they might hear in the spring, of the William
'• Perm, the Adrians, and other ships being taken.
e ! inflead of coming into our port. And if such a
rl thing should happen, it would be hundreds ef thou
sands of.dollais loft to our revenue. Was it not
n necefiary then, to be provided against any misfor
'• tunes which might happen ? Or would gentlemen
x have the treasury t» flop payment in «efe of such
an event ? And he would ask gentlemen at what
rate they would insure the .arrival of these vessels ?
He be'ieved the price would be high.
The plan therefore'uf the gentleman /rem South
Carolina (Mr.'Harper) held aut a vain depend
ancee, when he retted it upon an advance of inij
polls. And what ct.i.ld be thought of a window
d tax ? The most odious tax in Great Britain, and a
n tax that would be highly dcprecatcd in this country
> Indt*d he could remember the time, when it would
not have been very' fafe for a person to have pro- '
posed a ftaiiip-rax, a hearth-tax, or a window lax 1
'An hearth tax and a window tax were the mod fla
r vifh of taxes. What I said he, shall one man enter j
ear houses and count and tax our hearths, and a
) nother come and peep and examine into our win
dows ! God forbid 1 The injustice of such taxes
was not greater than their baleful nature, since a
rich man by ,no means paid his proportion of them,
y When fucn objects were brought forward as fnb
a Ititutes for a tax on land, it was a pretty strong
il prcfumptien in iu favyr.
- . »
? How did the gentleman intent? to convey tii .
ftampa to ali part* of the Ur.ioi) ? How would
men a tax affect tlie farmer, who might have many
miles to ride for a stamp before Tie could give a note
or take a rerept. The objt&ioa formerly made to
j a ifamp-tax, it had been laid, was because it was l '
■- about t® be enforced by a foreign government )he a
e did not ti.ink that was the whole objection. He °
r believed the tfling was objectionable on account of f'
its inequality. In Biitain it was produ&ive ; in •'
j. Philadelphia and other large i towns, it w u!d also
j be pradafli/e ; but could not be expended with con- "
veniertce ovtr theSiates of Kentucky ar.d TenuefTee.
9 It woutd either be evaded or opprcilive. t!
By additional duty on fait, would not the poor l !
e rain be affected in a much greater proportion than
, | the rich ! tie certainly would, since some poor fa- a
0 mihea used as much [alt as a rich one ; and would
not Jtich a tax tempt the farmer to give a less quan- 1
!e tit }' to hi* cattle than was iieceftVry for them ? ''
it And were landed gentlemen certain that such a tax
r would be mere acceptable to farmers than a land P
■j tSX ' not know whether tjie additional
duty might not .also encourage smuggling. '
1- Gentlemen had said, that whenever peace (hould
ie take place in Euiope, great emigrations would take ■'
1 p'-ice to thia country, and gieat wealth would be K
y brought in. He believed if any thing would draw
° per !oni from foreign cauntiies to thin, it would be t
a profpeft of enjoying liberty, under wife and equal
■d l aw 's* He beneved it would not be the molt effec- ''
tunl way of inviting Irifhmcn to this couutry, to
a] tell them we had a hearth tax, or Etrgliihmen by
Iq, speaking to them of a window tax, or the people of
a- France by a fait tax ! It was the gieateft reeona-
meniiation of a tax that it fell equally on property ; t
and whatever tax did io, he said., was a good'tax.
in a^crt * < i that if a land tax had been laid 11
long ago, it wnald have been of infinite service to ®
r- the country, as it would probably have prevented
e. some tuitions financial systems from taking place. '
wa * *' I ' 4 potlif bodies as with individuala.
!he more cafy they get money, the more liberally e
they Ipend it. It was, theiefore, a happy circum- j 0
llartce for this country that we could no longer bor- i £
row money. When they Were called upop for a i
irv loan of 300,000 dollars for the city, if it
n- Sad bstn to be railed fr.om the land, it would not I
>« have been foeafily granted. This land tax would j r
so ?P eratff " a ~lew spring in favour of government ; j
in ' l wo aw >ken the attention of the farmer to its '
e _ operations ;to enquire ofthe why and the where- '
s, ole • 'he bufrnefs of treaties, when money was J
e, to be granted,the farmer would be ip favour of trea
ie ties only in proportion as he chose to pay a tax on
his land. It was tafy to grant money ; but when
? a came every gentleman witbedto
r y P u ' '' from his own (houlders, one wiftied it to
a he raised from land ; another from wine ; another
of from hearths or windows ; or any thing so that if
en did not effect him or bis constituents in any sensible 1
iy degree.— 1 his wa* the reason fe was glad they '
an were brought to the neceflity of providing money
■J_ before they could difpoft-of it. They had this fef
m lion had fume noble pi.'Ti 3 on foot ; fhey had heaid
ilc j something el a national univerlity, of relieving the
in fuffeters *t Savannah, tic. b'ut now ifiere was a
n- call for money, every o e wifheduo put off the de
mand from himfelf upon his neighbour.
|' c Mr. S said h» regretted the neeeflity of enlling «pon
■ c the farmer ; but he believed it necessary. When gentlc
tiy men frated the poverty and mdaftty of that elaf» of citi
nt zens, he felt as much tor them and' had X* much zeal for
ltd their ..itereli as any man ; nor did he wiih invidioui dif
-1 tin£iunt to be drawn between the merchant and the far
x, mer. The merchant wai an agent of the farmer ; bnt
o- the agent wa* in the worst fitiurion, because his property
'(si was the tirft to be deilroycd. Hereaui in his newspaper
e l. at home that the l rench, the Englift and the Algcrints
cc taks our flups; but his corn and grass glow, and his dol
'cjl lars arc fate. He could come down to Congrefj.and talk
, re very coolly about laying addj idnal duties on cammcrce ;
C J ) but if his land wan mentioned as a fit ohj-A of tsxatien,
he immediately taok the alarm. He thought landed gen
(jJ tlemsH Oiould be inclined rather t» fympathiite with the
merchants in thair einbarraflments; and Jf they were not
e j ' td hy more gener«us motives to dn this, ev> a intcreft
fliould lead them to it, since they would be the latl to be
"5 devoured I N
Let all rjnks, then, said Mr. S. in conclufiou, unite
10 in putting their (boulders to the wheels of government ;
acd since commerce pay. her five millions, let agricul
:r" ture pay its something ; this would %w a real attach
on ment to our country. He had heard much said about
X- federalifm and friends of government i he thought
ed those would shew themfeives the truest fedcralifts and*
a( J friends of government, who fttpped forward in aid of
or its Hecefiitics He trusted gentlemen would fuffer their
! immediate interests to give way, in order 19 have the
finances of the country fixed upon a foundation which
rt > aould not be moved.
u " , , fTo be continued.]
n.! iSew Theatre.
ff. z=r=
, at On MONDAY EVHNING, February ir,
Will be prcfented, a Comedy called,
The Way to get Married.
Ira With the Farce of
"a The Jrifhmati in London.
u " Pantheon,
ot AND RICfCIiTJ S'j AMPHITHEATRE.
,r " Mr. £3" Mrs. SPIN/sCUTA
en R ESPICTFULLY inform their Friends and the Pub*
c h I\ lie in general, their benefit is fixed forTuefday e
at Vening, 14th February, when there will be a great variety
s ? of new and pleating entertainments; in which Mr. Spin
acuta will particularly exert himfelf on the
TIXJHT ROPE.
l " The whole of the numerous performances to eonclndc
d- with a New Fantontimc, got up by called
2 The Magic tight ;
a Or,
ry ' The Little Cripple Devil.
]j With new music, changes and decorations, which, will
be announced in the hills and advertisements of the day.
Doers to be open atifive, and the Perforniances|to begin
( • precisely at a quarter pall fix
la- Tickets to be had at the usual places. 5
trice 7
ii- 180 Tierces Rice for Sa'e by
es • Samuel Breck, Jun.
' No. 89 Third Street.
n. LI KF WISF,
k. 15 or to I'ocke'sCOTTON, and
A'Quantity ! H SHERRY WINE.I
'g 50 Cjjjes SWEET OIL, itc. Ac.
February 11 i tlfthSt
1 PHILADELPHIA,
, SATURDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 11, 1797,
, On Friday last, the 3d initant, Was celebrated
, the anniveifary of the Philadelphia Medical Society
; at the City Tavern. An oration, adapted to ti'.v
. occasion, hating been delivered by Dr. Cutbufk, the
f feciety partook'of an elegant dinner ; after which
, the fallowing TOASTS were drank :
j I. The Medical School of Pcnnfylvania, with
. its founders and profeffors.
t. The memory of Hippocrates ! Mnjr we imi»
tate hit talents for accurate ana extenlive obferva
r tion.
t 3. The memory of Dr. Sydenham I Revival
and prosperity to his writings.
1 4. The memory «f Dr. Harvey ! Oblivion to
. the ingratitu ie ot the world, for his discovery of
f the circulation of the blood*
t 5. I'he memory of Dr. Haller 1 the Eneyclo>
] pedia of Medicine of the present centnty.
J 6. The memory of Dr» Cullen 1 the late Coritl.
thun pillar of the University of Edinburg.
3 7. The memory of John Hunter! May we
. imitate his dexterity in the use of the differing
. knife.
t 8. The memory of Lavoiflier, the author of
t the late Revolution in Chymiftry.
1 9. The Pnlfe. Encreafe to tlie knowledge of
. its different Dates and indications. J
j 10. The Lancer. May judgment dire& the
f time, manner and extent of its use.
f 11. Medii ine without impollme.
12. Success to innovations in Medicine, while
. there remains a fnigJe incurable disease.
13. Speedy diiToltuion to all fyllemsof Medicine
j not ounded uport fa£ts, however dignified they
a may be, by antiquity of namea.
i 14. The Medical Key, or unity and simplicity
to the principles of Medicine.
1. IJ. The United States of America ; May they
y , enlighten the nations of Europe, in .the principles
. | of Medicine, as they have done in the principles of
. ; government.
a j 16. The Day, and perpetuity to the friendfhips
t formed in the Umverfity of Pennsylvania.
I j ~ NOTICE.
i : r ~|~'HE S.uw of JjANDS of the United States, in the
; 1. North-Western Territory, heretofore adVertised
s in the several public papers, will commence this even
ing, at the City Taver# to be continued from day
to day, 'till the tenth of MARCH next, if not sooner
8 fold.
l " January 4 $
B ivir. bickering's Letter.
0 This Day Published,
8 AND FOR SALE BY THE EDITOR,
T f Pricc three eights of a Dollar.
II THE Letter of the Secretary of State, to Mr. Pinck
\c ney, Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States, to
y the French Republic. February 4. 6t
J » College-Hall,
d Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Enteriai ing.
a On SATURDAY EVENING*
February nth, a* 7 o'cldck,
Will be delivered
m The EfFe&s of Ambition and Guilt,
c- ConGdcred* traced and exemplified in the chara&er of
,'r ' Macbeth.
With a recitation of the whole character, and mora!
r " and critical observations on the chara&er, and on the au
ct thof.
L ) r On Tuesday, February 14,
er Recitations from the Chara&cr of
H A* M h E T ,
1 !" With obfervatians on the Tragedy arid th# author.
Tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfon, ju». at the Library ;
e * M'Elwee's k>oking»£lafs-ftore, No. 70, S. Fourth-
n > street ; and at Mr. Carey's, Bookl'eiier, Market-dreet—
"* Half a dollar each.
he — — •
% A convenient stable
be QitOated in Laurel Court—t Stalli therein to be rent-
O ed, with the privilege of using the Hay-Loft.
te light years of the time of service of a NEGRO MAN"
, . for sale. He ii'aecaftomed to honfa work, aad capable of
j' taking care of Horses. Enquire' of the Printer,
h- February it ft thtf
MRS. G RATTAN
Refpefilfully informs the Ladies and Gentlemen of the
1 f • City, that the 4th
z LADIES' CONCERT
ie WiU be on TUESD>ij£, the 1 $tb day of February,
:h et the Rotm.
Ast I.
_ Overture, - - PUfel.
Scotch Ballad, Harp, Mrs. Grattan,
Clarionet Concerte,
Cite, Wtbbe,
Act 11. f
Lfjjbn, Piant Forte, Mrs. Grattan, Clemcnti,
Seng, ' - ~ Zucchini,
Quart ctto, - . - - Pleyel,
Glee, • ------ Darby.
Mrs. Grattan begs leave to inform the Ladies and
Gentlemen, th.it the fubfeription-book is at her bouse
No 39, North Sixth-street, for the reteption of tho£e
names who wish to honor her with their eonomands.-»-
A fubicription for eight nights 16 dollars, including a
Gentleman and Lady's ticket, each transferable—
Half fubforiptions 8 dollars, inSluding one ticket.—
e . Single ticket 1 dollars. •
t y *4-* The Concert to begin at half past fix ; and at
n . half past eight, the music wiH attend for the Ball.
February 11 gt
, FOR SALS, BY
■5 Philip Nictlin & Co.
I""""'} ?* * '
17 I'uhs Quickfiivtr
% Chests bandanna Handkerchiefs
ill A chetts Mancheilcr Goods, well aHorted in Cor*
duroyj, Thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimitias, Jte.
in 3 Trunks black Sewing Silk
Ito Crates Queen's Waie, well a (Tared
10 TonsShcct Lead
— Nails allotted flat and lharp points
London Hartiular"? Madeira wine in pipes sad hogs.
India Market J he^ds
40 lOi logftieadsTeiieriffe Wme
jo Hoglhsad. chaiee Port Win*
J Tierces Snake-Root
. 26 Calks yellow Paint
9 Boxes and 11 Bundles writing Slates
I Box Ink Stands and Note PrelTes
14 Bales Sail CanVass aborted, N§. I t* t
Fsbruwyll. «w*ftf*
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Scheme of a Lottery, authorized by an aitcmit!ed
" All aft to enable the Prelident and Managers of the £
Schuylkill and Sufqueliannah navigation, to raise, by
way of Lottery, the fitrn of Four Hundred I houfand
Dollars, for the purpose of works, in
their ads of iiicorptration mentioned." —
Dollars
I Prize of twenty thoufdnd dollars, 5.0,000
I of ten thousand dollars, 10,000
5 of four thousand dollars each, to
be paid to the pofieiTors of the five Q
numbers firft out of the wheel on the last £-
day's drawing, at which time there (ball
not be less than 500 numbers undrawn, 10,000
jo of two thousand dollars each, 10,000
ao of one thousand dollars each, ao,eco
43 of five hundred dollars each, 11,500
100 of two hundred' dollars each, 10,000
100 of one hundred dollars each, 10,000 m
220 of fifty dollars eack, xi,ooe -j.
29,500 of five dollars each, M7»s°°. nl
30,000 Tickets it ten doltars eacli. 300,000
Six dollars for each ticket will only be demanded at
the time of fsle.
All prizes {hall fie paid ten days after the drawing is
finilhed, upon the demand of the pofTefier of a fortunate B
ticket, fubjeft to a deduction of fifteen percent. l v
Such prizes as are not demanded within 12 months fc
after the Drawing is finifhed, ef which public notice
will be given, lhall be contidercd as relinquiftied for
the use of the Canal and applied accordingly.
At a metting of the Prelident and Managers of the e:
Schuylkill and Sufquehanna Canal Navigation—and ft
the President and Managers of the Delaware and v
Schuylkill'Canal, r
Resolved, That Joseph Ball, John Stemmctz, Stan- L
dish Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Crea, John Mil- >-
ler, junr. and William Montgomery be a committee
to arrange and <iire& the mode of disposing of the
tickets ; which committee ihall deposit the money in _
Bank, to be carried to the credit of an account to be o
pened for the Lottery.
At a meeting of the Canal Board, held January 16, 97,
Resolved, That the committee for conducting the
Lottery be directed to commence the, drawing on the a
firft day of March next. f
Extract from the minutes,
Wm. M. Smith, Secretary.
Joseph Ball, 1
John Steinmetx,
Siandi/h Forde, |
Francis IVeJI, |> Managers.
James M'Crea, I <
Jobu Miller, jutt. |
William Montgomery, J
'Jan. 2a. j
FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial f Hyson Skin.
Hyson, S- Fresh Teas. < Souchong,
Young Hyson, J C Bohea
Dec. 9. 3taw3m.
Le Breto^
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King, and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris, ,
Keeps a* complete aflortment of every thing neeeflary
to be used forth e
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Minoral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice in powder ; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
sweetening the mouth and preserving the teeth —he
also furnilhes Brushes and foft Sponges.
* # * He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 13J, above
Fourth-flreet.
November 16.
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was bought for Ten Thousand
Dollars.
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet.
He eats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water ; he has drank some days forty bottles of porter,
•drawing the corks with his trKnk.
He is perfectly inoffenfive; travels loose, at the
rite of five miles an hoar, and is the greatest curiosity
ever brought to this Continent. .
He is to be ieen 'till the 15th of January, in
Market-street between Third and Fourth-streets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him—
after which time the former price of half a dollar will
b« resumed.
He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather
■will permit.
December 31 / d
A CARD.
Jf Monsieur G. H. Souls,
Who left Bordeaux the 20A June last, and arrived
at Boston tbout the middle orAuguft| in the fcliooner
.Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is requested to call on
Joseph Anthony & Co. No. 5, Chefnut-ftreet, who
*vi)l give him some information of importance*
December 24, 1796. $
50 Dollars Reward.
k rr 1
LOST, last evening, between eight and nine o'clock,
as the subscriber was going to his house at the falls of
Schuylkill, from the house of his father-ic-law, Mr.
Francis Stewart, in Sugar-alley, betwten Sixth and Se
venth-streets, above Market-street,
A black POCKET-BOOK,
Containing 1190 Dollars, in Bank-Notes
From 5 to 100 Dollars each,
One of which was of the Branch-Bank of New-York,
and several papers, such as receipts and orders.—The
road the subscriber feok, was the Falls road, .crossing at
the Upper Ferry.
Whoever finds the above Podket-Book, and returns it
to the subscriber at the Falls, or to his father-in-law,
nir Stewart, living in Sugar Alley, ihall be entitled to
the above reward, paid by
JAMES HAFFY
Feb. 3. }.
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE and PRICE,
No. 79, Makkkt-str'eet, Philadelphia,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, a laTge aJTortment of WARRANTED
WATCHES, csnfiftiug of horizcntal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Witches, with ferosds, of superior
workmanship and elegance ; also capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jewelfd, capp'd,
seconds, day of the mouth, and plain Silver Watches ;
. eight day & chamber Clocks.; elegant French Clocks
with marble frames ; eight day and thirty hoar, brals
works, &c.
Desetnbet u, 1796. dim
for Sale,
By the Subfcribers—4n PENN-STREET, a j
6c Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine, old
Imposed by the Eagle. c -
P WILLINGS & FRANCIS. *
Nov. ,0 Ms
Brokers Office, and a pa :
COMMISSION STORE. ag
No. 6t South Third street.opposite the national new Bank'
OAMUEL M FRAWNCES and JOHN VAN REED,
0 have entered into co-partnership, und«r the firm ol _
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the bufmtfs of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commission merchants They buy and
fell on commission every species of stock, rotes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c. in
Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. ill kinds e' Sti
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and ha
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the w ]
mod corred manner. Constant attendance wiU begiven. to
They solicit a (bare of the public, favor;' they «re deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it. fe'
N. B Theutmoft seCrecy observed. Ui
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES, 0 f
JOHN VAN REED. ire
Philad. August 17. 1706- m&wtf tr.
Will be pnlli/hdd, on Wtdnefday next, of
BY Mess Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the other 0
Book fellers, price One Dollar and twenty-five cents, elegant
ly printed on woye paper, and hot-preffod, by John Thomp- St
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF to
The CONSTITUTIONS of the several Slates, tii
With each other, and with that of the United States:
exhibiting in Tables, the prominent features of caeh Con
stitution, and classing together their most important pro- _
vifiom, under the several heads of administration ; with
Notes and Observations. By William Smith, of South-
Carolina, LL. D and member of the Congrcfs of the
United States. Dedicated to the People of the United
Stttes. . r-
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior paper, at
3-4ths of a dollar. February 6 mwf er
FOR SALE, tc
About 1,600 acres of Land, j"
WELL situated, laying on and between Marih al
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in | p;
four separate Patents. For terms ot sale apply to N
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, South Second-lh'set
January 16. mwflf J
By Authority. i
Schuylkill Bridge Lattery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64, d
Stuth Second-Jlreet. t<
SCHEME of a LOTTERY, »
For raising Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an Aft of
the Legislature of Pennfylvasia, paCTed during the last
feflion, for building a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the Gounty of
Berks. Dollars,
j Prize of go,ooo Dollars - so,o»o
1 do. of ie,ooo do. - • 10,000 ::
3 do. of 5»oo© do. • [
4 do. of s.ooo do. • - 8,000 (
» to do. of i,oao do. - - - so,eoo
39 do. of 500 do. - - 19i5°° 3
8© do. of 200 do. • - • >6,000 }
too do. of 100 do. - - - 20,000 t
300 do. of s° " " iS> 00 ° 1
1 do. of 5»o do. to be paid the posses-? 00
for f the firft drawn 110. ) s ,
t do. of 3,000 do. to be paid pofleflors 5 ,
of the five last drawn not J '
9,400 do. o 15 do. : - 141,000 (
; 10,054 Prizes 300,000 .
: 19,946 Blanks |
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000 1
All Prizes (hall be paid fifteeri days after the drawing is
finilhed, upon the demand of a poileflor of a fortunate
licket, fubjeft to a deduction of twenty per cent. The
_ Drawing will commence as foontes the Tickets are disposed
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given,
j Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William Witman,
Joseph H'tefler, James Diemer, Thomas Dundas,
Jamet May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Graejf,
f Sebajlian Miller, Commissioners.
, Reading, May the 9th, >796-
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. a, to be had at the
e above office, where the earliest information of the draw
er ing of the Walhington No. t, and Patterfon Lottery's,
are received, and checkbooks for examination and regif
n tering are kept.
t Tickets in the above Lottery to be bad at Mr, Sheri
dan's Race-ftrcet, John Hay, North Third-flrect and
I) Henry Sw;yer's, German Town.
January 26 sawtf
r Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second stkkmt.
TCKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
. the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and registering, for
r the City of Waihington, No. 1, and Pattefon Lotteries,
n both of which are now drawing—information where
0 tickets are tc he had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School "Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
k, Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
of &c. or to obtain money on deposit of property,
r. Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
e- sale at Ten Dslltrs each, which will be drawn early in
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
«S Philadelphia, January 16, 1797. mth
*> Houses and Lots for sale,
at I)Y the Subscriber, in the town of West-Chester, Chef-
JJ ter county, 25 miles from Philadelphia, on the great
; t (late-road, leading Westward' V*iz. No. 1. A two-dory
Wj Stone House, the corner of High and Gay streets, 40 feet
t0 front by 34 feet deep, including a very convenient florc
houfo : the House contains ten well-finilhed rooms, a kit
chen and entry : the Lot is 144 feet front oniGay-ftreet,
—equal to any {land in Wefl-Chefter. No. a. A two-fto
— ry (lone house adjoining, 27 feet front, containing eleven
well-finilbed rooms, both being ceiled in the garrets, house
and lot fame depth as the other, a kitchen, &c cellars
under both houses, with good ftabWs.on the lots. These
Houses are almost new, done by good workmen, in a
maflerly manner. No_. 3. a Lot 41 feet front. No. 4,
34 feet. No- 5, 44 feet. No. 6, 119 feet, all of them
ten rods deep. On two of the above are ere&ed log
and frame houses, two (lories high, cellars under the
j™* whole, and a small liable to each
' The above Lots are situated near theCourt-Houfe. The
d > whole will be exposed to PUBLIC SALE, oiythe 21ft and
■s ; lid days of February next, at two o'clock, when the c'on
:ka ditioßs will be'maifc known. Possession may be had the
all firft of April next. The Title is indnputable.
JOHN KINNARD.
January H W w 3 w
Twenty Guineas Reward. P
RAN AW AY iroßi the fubferiber on the a 3 d Oaobcr,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES; li years
old; about 5 8 inches high ; had on a. m.«ed green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow button.,
a (Wd veil; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons and
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change _
his name and dress. He has been accullomed to driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be [
paid for securing him so that the fubferiber may get him -v
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges p<udby [
Rebins Chamberlame. P a
Eafton. Maryland, Nov. TO- 14 ''uniawtl 115
~ No. 170. . 0 f
DiJlriS of Pennsylvania, to <u>it. br
BE it remembered, that on the 24th day of January
in the twenty-fit (I year of the independence of the United
States of Amcrica, John Thompson of the laid diflri(s>,
hath deposited in this office the title of a'Book, the right
whereof fie claims as proprietor, in the words following
to wit— f ,
«< a Comparative View of the Conltitutions ot the
several States with each other, and with that of the
United States, exhibiting in tables the promiaent features Ij
of each Constitution, and classing together their mod
important provilions under the .several heads of admimf- tv
tration : with notes and observations. By William Smith a
of jll. d. and member of the Congress te
of the United States."
In conformity to the aft of the Conprefs ef the United
States, intituled "An Ad for the encouragement of
learning by securing the copies oiaps, .charts and books,
to the authors and proprietors of such copies during ths
times therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELt..
Clerk of theDiftri<2 of Pennsylvania
Feb. 1.
DANCING
. TAUGHT »V
MRS. B r R N,
Of the New Theatre, Tc Ladiet only.
THINKING it a great advantage for them to have a
Female Tutor in that art, pledges herfelf to their par
ents and friends to take all poflible care in their inftru&ion.
In addition to the Dances taught in Philadelphia, means q
to teach the Minuet, Minuet la Cour, Allemand,GGa t ]
vot, Quadrilles, Strathspeys, and all Scotch Dances ; and
above all to pay particnlar attention to that very necessary J
j part Palii' Addrtfs. For particnlars enquire of Mrs. Byrn, n
No- 70 north Eighth-street. Februry6 mwftf
Samuel Richardet o
RESPECTFULLY linforms the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he hv this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia:
The Subscription Room will be fureiihed with all the
daily papers publiffied in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, togather with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee,.Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors;' together with the usual refrefhmen-.s,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentleman may depend on being accommodated with
; the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
, approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
, The Larder will be supplied with the prime and earliest
1 produ&ions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, ot Tingle Gentlemen, may be
» accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
1 hours most convenient to themselves—-a cold Collation is
1 regularly k?pt for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
' at tha bar. ' ,
The Lodging glooms will be completely furnifcfd, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
1 requilite.,
Simuel Richardet will be happy to receive, ana
' execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
" large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
' hitafelf that nothing on his part (hall be wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so diflinguilh
-3 ingly honored.
s Philadelphia, April 19. mw f
e Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, &t. &c.
This day landing from the ship Eagle, captain Fofdick,
fVom London,
r * And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Recond-ftreets,
e A mqft capital and sxtenfive AJfortment of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
=• ROOTS, See. &c.
Among which are,
Five kinds Asparagus Three kinds Cresses
Four Berecole Twelve Onion
Twenty-five Beans Thirteen Radiffi
Six Beets Fifteen Turnip
Eleven Brocoli Fifteen Peas
Twenty-fix Cabbage Six Savoy
Six Carrat Four Parfnir
Three Cauliflower Twenty-three Melon
five Celery Twenty-one Lettuce
■a Tea Cucumber
in Common and lemon Thyme
Curled leaf and (prigged Parsley
>r Pot Marygold Pot Marjorum
s, Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
re Leek Kail Shallots
n Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lf.cerne
r- Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. &c.
>r With a curious collection of the most esteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
•c Being the most extensive ever imported into this city,
k, The above are from a capital Seedsman in London, and
Is, are warranted frefh and good.
■Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17. §
in —
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chefnut
— f:reet, where a correal Numerical Book is kept for public
infpedlion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale er ex
changed for prizes drawn in the Waihington Lottery, of
f- uhich the 60th and 61 ft days returns are received,
at xhe Business ot a Broker carried on as usual.
ry January 11. ttstf
et ■ ————
, c t " Insurance Company of the State of
st, Pennsylvania.
°- WT OTICE is hereby given, that the direitors have de
en JL\ clared a dividend of thirty dollars per (hare, on
ife hebufmefs of the lafl fix months: which will be paid to
irs he stockholders or their legal representatives, after the
?(e 10th instant.
» SAM. W. FISHFR, Sec't.
4> Philadelphia, Feb. ad, 1797. dtioth.
•m —-——
hf Bank of Pennsylvania,
January 4, 1797.
® At a meeting of the Direilor; th ; s day, a dividend of
n sixteen dollars on each lhare was declared for the iait
6 months, which will be paid to (the Stockholders af
c ter the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cathier.
r j Jan. 3. dtf.
Particular Teneriffe Wtnf.
50 Quarter-Casks Particular Teneriffe WINE,
Of a superior Quality,
For sale by A MARPI.E & IS. IV. MORRIS,
No. 6e Deck-fir
February 8 wf&niiat
Pennsylvania Population Company.
NOTICE is hereby given, to fuel) Share-holders a«
as havs not paid their affeflments on theirfhares—to
pay the fame immediately to the Secretary of the Compa
ny, at the Company's Office, NO. 53 north Fouith-ftreet,
Philadelphia. I'hey are further informed, that in default
of paying the fame within thirty days from the 4th of Fe
bruary, instant, the several forfeitures will be flriaiy cx
a&ed, in conformity to the lift article of aiTociation.
By order sf the Board,
SOL. MARACHp, Secretary
Feb. a. 4— S3O
Washington Canal Lottery,
N°. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifii
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollar*, for the purpose of catting
a Canal through City of Washington, from th Poi
tomacto theF.aftern Branch Harnour.
The following is Ae SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -x Prize of ao,ooo dollars, . 10,000
1 ditto 10,000 10,000
llaft drawn >
Ticket*, each j 00 °
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,009
ao ditto 100 »,000
55 ditto S° a.?s®
5750 ditto 11 69,008
To be raised for th« Canal, 16,15s
5850 Prizes, „ 175.000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 17.5,000
The Cemmiflioners have taken the Securiti#t re
quired by the aforefaid a<fl for tke pnn&ual payment of
I the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as thf Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th«
drawing is iinifhed, (ball be considered as relinquished for
the benefit ef the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
Crty of Washington, Feb. ir. {
A PARCEL OF VERY FINE
St. Croix Sugars and Rum,
JAMAICA SPIRITS, and
LACUIRA HIDES,
For Sale by
Feb. 7.—Jiw JAMES YARD.
TO BE SOLD, 7 "
The Time of a smart, active, young
Negro Wench,
BETWEEN 13 and 14 years of age, andjuft had the fmal?
pox. For t;erms, apply at Mr. WILLIAM B AXTER'S, in
south FrQnt-ftrcct, No. 312, below Almond-street.
February 7 *4L.
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & id proof,
Gin, of 4th praof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
I Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
GUfs Tumbler?, in pints and half-pintj
I Window Glass, in boxes, of different lizt«
liazleniits, in sacks
Whiting
wESX,d \
I fc Spanish Brown 3
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 }
This Day is Published,
I By BIOREN & MADAN, at their Printing QTic»,
' No. 77, Dock-street, and fold by the principal ,
Bookl'eilers in this City.
The American Annual Register ;
1 Or historical Memoirs of the United States, for the
I J Year 1796.
3 I No. 167.
s D'tJlriQ of Ptnnfylvania, to wit :
)' Be it remembered, that on the 19th day of January
f in the Twenty-firfl year of the Independence of the
II I United States of America, Bioren & Madm of the kid
L J difiriifl have deposited in this Of&ce tlie . title of a Coofc
I the Right whereof they claim as Proprietors it the
I words following to wit :
I " The American Annual Register, or Hiftcrical
] " Memoirs of the United States, for the year 1756.
In conformity to the a<sl of the Congress of \he
I United States entituled "An a& for the encourags-
I ment of learning by securing the copies of Map*,
Charts and Books, to the authors and proprietors df
I such copies during the time therei* mentioned."
Samuel Caldwell,
j 1 Clerk Pennsylvania Diftriit.
I Jan»ary 15. iaw4
PURSUAN'rto a Resolve of the Eoard of Truflees of
Washington Academy, in Somerset County, and
I State of Maryland,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
I That the office of Principal Teacher iq. the said fchoel |i»
. I vacant.
ic A GENTLEMAN qualified to teach the higher Greek and
| xV Latin Ciaflics, C-eography, and the Mathcmptics, with
r I such other branches of literature as are ufuaily ra'ight in such
° I schools, would meet with liberal encouragement, and, it is
I believed, wouldoblain a very eligible {ettiement. For the
I prefect, the Truflees would be willing to contract with a per*
| son capable of taking charge of a Grammar School.
~ I Asthis Institution is provided with buildings fufficirnt t»
)I I accommodate the principal and his family, and from seventy
I to eighty a library, an excellent plvilofophical and ma-
I thematical apparatus, globes, maps, Sec; lias tcfpefiable
e * I funds, and is fituatcd in a plentiful anil agreeable part of the
>•> I country ; nothing lerms warning to [Bake it rank among the
to I moll ufeful seminaries in this part of the Union, buta. f«itable
le I character to ptefide in it.
I ■ Proposals may be addrefTed to the fubferiber, in Prince'*.
I Anne, in the neighborhood of the Academy, or to Dofl"'
I Martih L Haynij, No. 83, north Third-flreet, Phils
_ I delphia, or to the Printer hereof. ■' -
EZEKIEL HAJVgf'
I January »9. Feb. 7. w
J PRINTED BY fENNO
—No. ii£ —
CH KSUVT-iTRFIf.
1 fPriec Eight D'oHw p" Annum.]