of tije and Philadelphia Daily Advertise?*
By John Fex\no, N 0- 119 Cbefnut Street,
Number 1489.]
For Sale,
The fine and remarkably faft
Virginia ar.d Philadelphia
Burthen about 100 tons. For terms apply to
Rofs & Simfon.
June ii. dtf
For St. Thomas,
THE SHIP
nn anc * Mar y>
frC a P ,atn Btuts ;
WILL fail in ten days. For
freight or paffnj-e apply to
F, COPPINGER.
No. 221, South Frontfireet.
June 9. diot
_ -5- For Sale,
, Brig
Jlfill ACTIVE,
o n the 20th infl. at the Coffee-
House, at 7 o'clock, P. M, as (he came from sea :
jrhr is known to be a faft sailer. Any particular in
formation may be had on application to Capt. Bing
harh on board said brig, at Mess. Jefle and Robert
Wain j Wharf, to John PUutkinhom, or Thomas
Stewart. Inventory to be seen and terms of pay
ment to be iriade known at the time of sale.
Jun,e 8. tf
For London,
THE SHIP
WILLIAM PENN,
James fostAH, Master.
WILL fail with ail convenient fpted. For
freight or passage apply to
"JefJe Isf Robert Watii.
May 19 §
For Sale,
Ihe cargo of the lirig Enterprise, Captain
Langdon from Bourdeaux, now landing at
Morton's -wharf
CONSITING OF
j»4 hhds. of Claret 2
aIJ cases of ditto -a <j
job cases of Sweet Oil
x.o-pipes London proof | B ranDV. | S
10 pipes of Holland psoof 5 J w -o
Apply to
Wharton & Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
Jr~ «■ Said Brig,
WILL take a FREIGHT for
the Weft-Indies or Europe, fails
burthen about fifteen hun-
barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply as above.
May a 4 ■- •§>
For Sale or Charter,
-V— . THE SHIP
*£s££• WARREN,
- Benjamin Church, Master.
OF about 280 tons burthen. En
quire of
Je/Ji & Robert Waln-
May a 6 " §
JohnTarris, master.
A GREAT part of her cargo is engaged, and
(he will fail in ten days. For freight or pas
sage apply to capt. Tarris, at Willings & Francis'
wharf, or to GURNET & SMITE.
May 25 §
- - For Freight or Charter,
J:'! Brig Fame,
"/fcawsreass FRANCIS KNOX, Matter:
A flrong, excellent vefTel, has been just Iheathed and
ready to receive a cargo. She will carry a.ooo bar
rels, has good accommodations so paflengers.
Apply to
Capt. Knox, or to
Kearny Wharton.
June 6. 6p
HAY.
A Quantity of excellent Old and New Hay to
be had at Peel Hall Farm on the Wiffahickon
Road, about 7, miles from the City.
Also, A QUANTITY OF BUILDING STONE.
June 8 §6t
FASHION AND CHEAPNESS.
INTELLIGENCE TO THE LADIES.
JUSV received from London, two 1 trunks of ele
gant BRUNSWICK KID Ladies' Shoes, of the
moll fafhionable patterns and shape now worn in
that city, and will be fold ess immediately in fmatl
quantities, at firft cost, forcafh, at Mrs. ENEFER's,
«o. 105 Walnut ftrect, between Third and Fourth
lireets.
%* The above was purchased of Mr. Fox, in
Piccadilly, who manufa&ures for most of the nobi
lity, and will be warranted good.
J une l 3 •
John Miller, jun. & Co.
Have received per the India, Afhmead, from
Calcutta,
A well ajforted small Invoice tf
Gurrahs
Baftas
Coffaes »
* Calicoes
Bengal Stripes
Laid in remarkably low, which they will fell for
cash or short credit on very advantageous terms. *
June 5. d^wfri4th
George Dobfon,
No. 25 South Third-Street,
HAS imported per ships William Penn, Starr,
and Uiaiia, from London,
5-4 Super London Chints, elegant patterns,
Ginghams, Muflinetts and Dimity's.
Fafhonable Waiflcoating, newest patterns.
Ribbands well aflbrted, irT fin all trunks.
4-4 5"4 and 6-4 India and British Book-rauf
lins.
Fancy Cloaths and CafTamiers.'
The whole to be disposed of cheap for Cash
erjipprcved Notes of a fhorr date.
June 14, '97. d, tf.
P 111L 0 A DELP HI A : FRIDAY EVENING, JUNE 16, 1797.
A Quantity of Brandy,
FrRST & ad proof, .
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each 1
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different liz.cs
Hazlcniits, in ks
Whiting
wj& ;■ »»»•>•
& Spanish Brown J
For Sale by
PETER. BLIGHT.
January 4 G.
Rofs & Simfon,
Have for Sale,
A QUANTITY OF PRIME
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lisbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Calks
A few Quarter Chells best
Frelh Hylon and ) ~t. . c
Hyson Skin J
Muscovado Sugars in Hogsheads, and
Coffee in Tierces
Mar eh 7. || cf
Houfhold Furniture.
NOW felling by private iale, No. 17 Dock
ftreet—confiftingo' chairs, tables, looking
glafles, bureaus, hand and fire irons, bedsteads,
feather-beds, carpets, bedding, window curtains,
bed and table lmen, kitchen furniture, &c. The
#vhole in good order, and has only been a few
months in use.
The faJe to continue daily 'till the whole is fold.
June 2 §
St. Übes Salt.
3bco bushels St. Übes SALT, for sale by
Philips, Cramond, y Co.
June 11. 3t
C. E. Whitlock,
DENTIST,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of Philadelphia and its vicinity, that he
continues to perform all operations on the Teeth ; fup
plie« the deficiencies of nature with artificial or real
teeth, in all the various modes of fixing—Cleans,
files, regulates, exlra£ts, and fill* decayed teeth with
gold or lead, &c. &c. He waits upon Ladies and
Gentlemen at tjheir houses, and will be happy Jo re
ceive their commands by note, at Mrs. Finch's, No.
68 north Eighth street, or at his house. next to the
Black Horse Tavern, on the Fraakford road.
Dollars.
Scaling and cleaning
Artificial teeth, with enamel, per tooth, 5
Do. in gold sockets or ferews 7
Natural iceth with ligatures 7
Do. on gold or ivory lockets, or gold ferews 10
Filing and cutfing away decay—each decay f
Filling with gold 2
Do. with lead S
Ectracling (to the families who employ him
as dentist) t
Do. where not employed a
Tooth powder of bis own preparing 1
Brushes, best London manufa&ure 25 cents.
Regu'ating, See. according to the operation.
* # * C Whitlock will (ell the time of a Negro
Man ; —he is honest and sober, and has about 5 yoars
and a half to serve. Enquire as above.
June 15 igtthtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 3 Chefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly assorted, very low on
Ihort credit.
March 6. §
PennfylvaniaPopulation Company.
NOTICE is hereby given tcrtheShare Hold
ers,that a further affefTlnent canine dol
lars is levied on each share, payable as follows,;
viz.
Six Dollars immediately, and
Three Dollars on the iftof July next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Treasu
rer of the Company, at the Company's Office,
No. 53, North Fourth-street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed, that on their neglecting to pa the
fame as above diredbed, the fevera 1 forfeitures
will be exafled.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MAKACHE, Treifurer.
May %■/. djot
Grattan and Comp.
REfpe&fully inform their friends, that they have
imported from London per the (hip Star, a
large assortment of
PERFUMER r,
Which is now opened for file at their House, Na.
191 Market-street.
Also, a new afiortuient of ready-made gentle
men's linen, Ihirts from 1 dollars each to 8 dollars,
&c. Sec. &e.
Ladies and gentlemen are accommodated with
board and lodging a: ten Dollars each.
Those Gentlemen who have their own private
lodgings, may be accommodated with dinner only,
by the week or month.
June 5 6t
To be fold,
The time of aftout hearty young NEGRO MAN,
who has upwards of four years to ferre. Enquire
at No. 25, Uock-ftreet.
June 13. dlw
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the City—
OF FJRIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to J9 by 14,
By the single Box or Quahtity, may be had at the
S ore of the Subscribers, comer of Arch and Front
ftreet.
fames C. c5 s Samuel W. Fijloer.
Philadelphia, Jane 9, 1797.
> ' " '
tor sale,
A t>:iir of very handfom:
Bay Horses,
Near fixtcen hands high, well broke, and rer
feiUy gentle. Enquire at Mr. Kclfon's ftablcs,
Church-alley.
Also, for Sale, - *
A Chariot and plated Harness.
June r'3. , diop
NOTI.C E.
THE co^partncrfhipof William Young, Johr»>Mills, I
and John Mills,, jun, Bobkiellcrs and Stationers, un- C
der the firm of W. Young. Mills and Son, is this j
day dissolved by mutual consent. All pcrlons indebted ( ]
to the copartnei lhip arc reqacfled to mike payment
to William Young, and those having dcinartds are de
sired to produce their accounts for fertlcm^nt.
William Youngy
John Mills,
jfohn Mills, jun. „
Philadelphia, June 6th, 1797*
W. Y O U N G ('
Continues the bookselling and ftatjoaa*y bufinerg at
the usual place, wholesale and retail, where he has r
now a very large aflbrtfnent of 3
Writing and Printing Papers and Bodls,
Of which catalogues with the prices affixed are de- _
livercd gratis-
Wanted, (
A person well qualified in the bookselling and sta
tionary buflnefs. Applications will be received till
the firfl July next, at No. 52, south
corner of Chefnut-ftrecc. c
June 6. d7p
■ ■■ ■ ■ ' ■ 11 ■ r
Just Received,
From Batavia (via Providence)
170 Sacks of Java Coffee of firfl quality
300 half sacks do. do,
a few Boxts of Spices, con fitting of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
For sale by
IVILLINGS & FRANCTS,
Peniwftrcet.
nay ;o dtf
For Sale, a tiew threeflorj Brick
House.
AT the Merchants Coffee House, on Friday 1
next, the 16th inft. at half past 8 o'clock
in the evening, will he fold by Public Vendue,
a genteel three story brick House ;it is pleasant- ]
ly situated on the South fide of Arch the c
fourth house above Fourth street. I
It may be viewed any time before (he sale. 3
T*rms are, one fourth in approved notes ef
60 days, and the refidne if required Way remain ,
seven years, pn security and interest annually. (
Sold clear of all incumbrances, and immedi- (
ate poffefTion may be given. c
Further particulars will be made known at
the time of sale, dy
Richard Footman & Co.
AuSioneers.
June it. djt
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sharehold
ers, that a further afTeflment of fifteen
dollars u levied on each share, payable in the
following inftalment!—viz.
One quarter immediately.
One quarter on the ift ot June.
One quarter ou the ifl September.
One quarter on the ill Dec. next.
Which they are requested to payto the Trea
surer of tlie Company at the Compan/** Office, ,
No. 53 north Fourth street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed that en their negledliag to pay the
fame as above direfled, the several forfeitures
direiSed by the Constitution, willl be exa&ed.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE,
Treasurer.
May ij jim '
To be Sold, j
A large and convenient
Three Story Brick House ;
SITUATE atfhe nor<h-eaft corner of Arch and
Fourth-streets. It contains eighteen rooms—
and is in every refpedl well finifhed. For particu
lars enquire of
M. Keppele,
No. 138, Chefnut- r treet.
31. § ,
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second street, I
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes and. Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas E&skine.
ftfey 15 §
Maurice Moynihan,
No. 81, Nerth SecondJlreet,
A few doors above Arch-flreet,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has 1
for wholesale or retail, on the lowed; terms, a '
general assortment of Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
tumblers, plain and flowered quart, pint, half pint
gill and half gill do. exait measures, decanters and
wine glafles ; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint
bowls, and china in sets and separate ; pocket
bottles 1 Schuyikill and Jersey country quart and
half gallon bottles; Ory Goods, &c. &c.
N. B. Crates put up with care at the shortest. no
tice.
May 11 ; dtf
JOHN CRAIG
HAS just imported from Rotterdam, via St.
Thomas, and for sale on reasonable terms
by the package
Platilias Royal
Haerlem and German linens
Rouens
Post and Pro Patria Paper
Wafers ■
Quiils
Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles
Coffee Bags
He has also for Sale,
Best Red Glover Seed
Old Mideira Wine, fit for immediate use
Teneriffe Wine of firft and second Qualify
Coffee in Bags and Hogsheads
Jamaica Spirits
Connedlicut Turpentine Soap
Window Glass
Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Cotton
Hosiery
April 18. 4a w
I " WANTED,
ABOUT ico tons of freight,- for any port
in Spiin, or the Mediterranean in a neu
tral bottom. Enquire cf JAMES YARD
Junej. .. ;t
The sale of 40931 1-2 acres of.
Land on the waters of Whealing and Fishing
Creeks, in Washington county, advertised for
15th inft. is postponed to a future day, of which
due notice will be given, if a private sale does
not take place.
June 12. ,
Poft-Office, 23d May, 1797.
THE Mail for Baltimore will at this of ;
fiee every morning (Sundays excepted) at half past 7 ■<
o'clock.
The Mail f-;r Boston will be cloTed every day (
(Sundays excepted) at 12 o'clock noon ; and
The Mail for Frcdcrica, Milford, Clowes, Daj;fbo- ]
rough, Pelaware, Homtown, Accomack Court-House ,
aAd Northampton Court-House, VirgiAia, will be
closed every Monday morning at half paU o'clock, j
May 23 *i2t
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, i
(Neatly bound and.lettered, pffce 2 dole. 25 cts.)
By G. DECOMBAZ,
EOOKSELLER & STATIONER,
No, 48, North Third Sttett,
Ibe Adventures of Telemacbus.
French and English, 2 vols. nmo.
AMONG the books which daily fall ssto the
hands of the youth of both fcxes, not.e
have a higher claim to their attentionthan Tele
machus. The most interesting lessons are here
conveyed in the vehicle of an interesting Poem,
replete with the fineft touches of the true pa
thetic, and embellfhed with all the graces of a <
beautiful style. The fatal effects of indulging !
the passions are exemplified in the most ltriking
manner; and the happiness atteiding inno- 1
cence and viitue painted in the liveliefl,colours. '
Whatever can incite to virtue or deter fwm 1
vice ; whatever can enlighten the understand- '
ing, charm the imagination, and improve the
heart, is to be found in this interesting work.
THE NAVAL~GAZETTEER;
Being a complete Geogjaphieal Dictionary,
containing a full and accurate account, alpha- (
betically arranged, of all the countries and ifl- >
ands in the known world ; showing their lati- |
ude, foundings, and stations for anchorage ;
with a particular description of the feveralßavs,
Capes, Channels, Coves, Creeks, Currents,
Gulfs, Harbours, Havens, Lakes, Oceans, Ra
ces, Rivers, Roads, Rocks, Sands, Shoals,
Sounds, Straits, Tides, Variation of the Com
pass &c. Together with a particular relation
of the shape' and appearance at sea, of the fede
ral Headlands, Isthmuses, Peninsulas, Points,
Promontories, and whatever is of use or impor
tance to the Master, Pilot, Commander, or
Seaman ef any ship or veflel, in navigating the
watery element.
Also Comprehending
Ample Directions for tailing into or out of the
different Ports, Strait?, and Harbours of the
feur quarters of the world ; and for avoiding
dangers on the variou* and extended coasts ; in
whieh more than twelve thousand diftinft names
of places, are treated of and explained. With
a corre£t set of Charts, t vols. Bvo. price 6 dols.
By the Rev. JOHN MALHAM,
' £5" This has been pronounced the most ufe
ful and the cheapest book publifhcd in America.
June 0. dtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleas
ure and refpeA, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
she has received during four years residence in
, Philadelphia ; and assures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, she has made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of htr
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and pclite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and mailers excelling in their
refpeflive profeflious.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, j797. ijimftf
The lituation is perfe<s\ly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
For Sale,
ON board the {hip Molls, John Frost ? master j
from Liverpool, laying at Walnut-street wharf
6000 bushels of fine ftoved Salt,
And QUEEN'S WARE, well aborted,
By" PHILIP NICKLIN fcf Co.
WHO HAVE IN STORK, ALSO FOR SALE,
100 Boxes WhiteHavanna Sugars
Imperial and _ .
Hyson J
17 tubs Qpickfilver
achefts Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chests Manchester Goods well assorted
in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, mufliuets,
dimities, &c. j Trunks b'.ick f'ewing fiik,
180 Crates queens ware, well assorted,
xo Tons sheet lead,
Nails assorted, flat and sharp points,
London particular and ) Madeira Wine in
India market 5 P'P e ® and hhds.
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Teneriffe Wine,
10 pipes choice Port ditto,
31 calks yellow paint,
7 boxes 12 bundles writing slates,
I box ink-ftaads & note presses,
Sail canvas assorted No. I a 8.
May 4. dtf
Millinery Room,
No. 136 Market-Jlreet.
MISS CHRTSTAL
TAKES an early opportunity of acquainting
iher Friends that lhe has received by the
William Penn, variety of NEW MIL
LINERY, &c.. which she hopes to be able to
fliew them in a few days.
May 18 foot
A FEW BOXES OF
Bologna Saufafres,
OF A SUPERIOR QUALITY,
To be fold at No. 199 South Front-Street.
APT i 120, ct'tf ,
THE MEMBERS OF
The Philadelphia Chemical So
ciety,
ARE earnestly rcqucfled 10 attend at their Chemi
cal Laboratory, on Saturday next, June 17 th, at 4 o
: clock in the afternoon, onbufmefsot smportance*
By Order of the Society,
THOMAS HORSFIELD, Sec'y.
June 15. s ?
The Commissioners
FOR carrying into cfiedi. the TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendship, limits,
and Navigation, between His Catholic Majesty
and the United States of America, hereby give in
f'-rmation to all Pcrfons therein concerned, That,
in order to terminate a'! differences, on account of
the by the Citizens of the United
States, in confeauence of their Vessels aild Car
goes having Veil takui by Subjefls of His Cath
olic Majefly, during; the Yar between Spain
and France, that they ar receive (at their
Office, between the hoof, .nd one o'clock;
daily) all cofr.r >h{s and ens, authorized
by the said Ai_ •, during teen Months,
from the day ol <«P„ te here* ~id that they have
power to examine '"ut \ pei/ons as. «opie before
'hem, on oath or affirmation, touching the com
plaints in question, and also to receive in evidence,
ail written teftimonv, authenticated in such man
ner as they ffiall think proper to require or admit*
By Order cf th; Ccmmi/ftonerS,
PETER EGHRA,
Secretary.
C mmijjiomrs OTice, iVe. 109, MiAberry
reei, Pbiladelfbin, May i~th, 1797.
SO—
*
The Commissioners
Carrying into effefl ihe sixth article of the
X treatyof amiiyj commerce and navigation, eon
eluded between his Britannic majesty and 1 he United
States of Am - ica, on the ijth day 0/ November;
1794, having this day conltituted their Board,
pursuant and agreeably to the said treaty, do here
by give notice, tbat they are ready to proceed to
business accordingly; and they desire that all claims
under the fiid article (which so far asthe fane de
fcrihes the cases thereby provided for, is hereunto
annexed) may be lodged with their Secretary with
out delay.
They further desire that all fnch claims may not
only ftatc in what manner the several cases come
within the description of the said article, but also
specially set forth .he nature of the evidence by
which the claimants refpeitivcly undertake tofub
ftantiate the fame
ExirsS from the said article,
" Whereas-itis alledged by divrrs Britilh ijier
" chants, and others his majesty's fubjstSs, that
" debts to a confid rable amount, which were bona
" fide contra 6ted, before the peace, still remain
" owing to thetn by citizens or inhabitants of the
" United States ; and that by the eperation of va
" rious lawful impediments, since the peace, not
" onjy the full recovery of the said debts has been
" delayed, but also the value and security thereof
" have been in several instances impaired and less
" ened, so that by the ordinary course of judicial
" proceedings, the British creditors cannot now
" obtain and actually have and receive full and
" adequate compensation for the losses and dama
" ges which tney have thereby fuf ained: It is a
" greed that in all such cases where full compenfa
" tion for such lolTcs and damages cannot for what"
" ever reason be adlujlly obtained, had and recei
" ved by the said creditors in the ordinary "course
" of justice, the United States will make fall and
" complete compensation for the fame to the said
" creditors : but it is diftinftly understood, that
" this provision is to extend so such losses only as
" have been occasioned by the lawful impedimenta
" aforefaid, and is not 10 extend to loflcs occasion
" ed by such ißfolvency of the debtors or other
" causes, as would equally have operated to pro
" duce such loss, if the said impediments had not
" existed ; nor to such losses or damages ?s have
" been occasioned by the manifeft delay, or negli
'• t,ei»cc, or wilful omission of the claimant."
By order of the Board,
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secretary.
■ Philadelphia, Commissioners' Office,
No. 3 fouthSixtb-ltreet, May 19, .
1797- J 6—§im
I "*HE SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
the Envoy lixtraordinary and iM Hi liter Pleni
potentiary of his Britannic Majesty, General Agent
!or affixing Britilh creditors, and fuc;h particular a
gcr.ts at they may specially authorize, in profequtmg
their claims before the commissioners for carrying in
to pffett the sixth srticle ot the Treaty of Amity, Ccm
j merit aid Navigation ietuiecn his Britannic. MajcJiy and
the United States of America, hereby gives noucethat
I he has opened hts cliv e at his house the foutb eall
\ corner of Cnefniit and fifth ftrects, Philadelphia,
j where he is ready to receive all claims or inllruftions
for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the purpose of bringing forward the fame agree
ably so the rules and orders which the board may
think proper to prescribe.
And as it will be for the interest of all concerned,
that the several claims be so slated, and fupport
cd, as to prevent the delay which would arise from
the neceffityof obtaining lurther information, or ad
ditional materials.from persons residing at a diltance,
the geceral agent thinks it his dut<»to add, (for the
dire£lion chiefly-of those, who. not having employ
ed parlicular agents, may leave the prosecution of
thcir'claims to his charge and management) that all
such claims ought in particularto set forth—
id. The proper dafcrip ion arid function of the
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, relpt ct
ively.
ad. The date or nature of the original contract or
debt.
3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant wis prevented or impeded,
by the provision, operation or defeat of law, the
decisions and pra&ice <rf courts, or reflraint «f exe
cution, from recovering payment of the debt in
quellion.
4th. The loss and damage incurrefl or sustained,
in consequence ot luch impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen from the infolveuev, change of
situation, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from lapse of time, or other causes impairing
the value and security of the debt, which would not
havefo operated if such impediments had not existed.
And sth The particular grounds and reaTons on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treaty, that " by the ordinary course of judicial pro
ings, the cieditor canr.ot now obtain and a&ually
have and teceive full and adequate compensation" for
the losses and damages lofuflaiued.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to f»g
gefl th-at the claims ought 10 be accompanied
and fuppoued by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly attelled, both as to the exillence
of the debts claimed, and such other circuiTiilaoeci
as may be within their own knowledge relpvlively.
And wherever the claimants in fluting the nature of
their evidence (which must in every mftance be the'
bell of which the cafe is capable) have occasion to
refer to the testimony of witnesses, it will be proper
to apnrife the general agent of the names and places
of residence of luch witnesses and the fattst? be ella
olifned by their tellimeny.
Win. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, Jane 8;h, 1707. dim
New-En gland Rum,
Ir. Hoslheads i«djjarre!s, forfaleby
EZEKIEL HALL.
June ?• 4*-
["Volume XI.f IPHfi untjtpised time of a ilkely Negro
A Gift, iibout 10 years old, wiis has upwards
bf II years to serve.—She is of a good tempfcr,
and very imirt, a'itive and uleful ih a Family.
Apply at Nq. 149 South front, or 35 Union
firect. Jtim 16 —*m*r«*f
Philadelphia, Tuesday, June 13> 1 797'
To Mr. Fennc),
Major William W. Burrov/s, in your papdr of
this day. has itilerted an address, artfully calculat
ed to possess the public mind with an erroneous
opinion of the tranfafiions that have taken place
ktwecr) him and me. h statement of fafls, with
precision as to the time and ord'.r, willexpftfe the
of the attempt.
1 did not receive from major de Eutts. anf in
timation that fhajor Burrows laid he would meet
me at the time proposed, if infilled u'pen- I prc
fnme as n® such communication was made to me
by maj'if <ie Butt% that this irupirrtant cirCuiri
flance catitict form a part in major Burrows s de
fence.
After the i'llinustion of major Burrows, a dif
lant hi.ur wasiimprop;r, nor could I with confilt*
but regard to my charaiter be content with gene
ral lonfe declarations, tha,t major Burrows would
give i.*' all the fatisfaftion a man of honor could
require, as major Burrows did not pro
pofr any time for our meeting, or fay he would
ripply to a friend to make the arrangement: either
bl these circunlltauees would have prevented my
JiuMid-ition.
I did agree to meet major Furrows at Cooper's
ferry, Sunday motningat fix o'clock; this arra'nge
'hient was made at eight o'clock Saturday evening;
tile fiixne evening abuut lulf pal ten o'clock, the
propofed'interview with major Burrows never
having been mentioned by me, nor any circum-
IfancJ" havnig occurred, to my knowledge, that
could lead to a suspicion of the measure that was
in contimplat on, .1 was arretted by the constable
with a warrant from the chief ehaigicgan
intended duel, between major Burrow s and myfelf
• —I proposed to pledge my word to the eenftable,
that ! woiild appear next morning at ten o'clock
before the chief, justice, and ti keep the peace in
the mean time ; the confta'nle declared he would
lodge me in jail, unlcfs I would give him my
vrord andhonor, I would net moled, hurt, or in
jure the person of major Burrows before fen
o'clock the next morning ; Irefufed until taken
within twp fquarcs of the.jail, and was then
obliged to'comply to prevent immediate lmprifon
meut; I immediately called on Mr. Higbee and
told him 1 was arreted, and desired him to ac-
OjUiint General M'Pherfon with the circumstance,
which he did on Sunday morning, and Mr. Higbee
called on me after having seen G r.'eral M'Pherfon,
and I then tol-J him, that 1 could not deviate from
my word of honor which I had been compelled to
pledge to the co/i liable, and requeued him to men
t on this as my fituatios, and to add that this diffi
culty would not always continue—These were my
inftru<Sions to Mr. Higbee. I understand he cal
ltdon General M'Pherfon and afterwards saw both
him aad major Burrows; for what paiTed between
them I mult r fer to Mr. Higbee and General
M'Pherfoli, to whom I did not appeal to know
how I Ihould afl, although he evinced a flrong dif
polition for conciliation.
Yesterday having heard the affair misrepresent
ed, and the impediment of Sunday morning being
then removed, I applied to my friend Mr. 1 homas
Bourke, authorized and requeftcd him to make a
communication to General M'Pherfon anil Major
Burrow*, the particulars of which major Burrows
knows cirfumftances at present forbid ma to state
which had it met a fimiiar disposition On the part
of major Burrows, would brought us together
in one hour ; the meff.ge was faithfully delivered
by Mr. Thomas Bourkc, and the proposal was de
clined
1 accepted his invitation and was prevented not
as he represents it by the order to wait on the thief
justice at 10 o'clock, but by my plighted word to
the peace officer, which I was conftiaine'd t» give
to av *ld being imprisoned. This incident reftri<sl
tdme until ten o'clock. The day aVcr this diffi
cult being out of the way, I proposed what major
Burrow' 3 knows would have brought forward an
immediate interview, if he had discovered a simi
lar disposition, and to complete the impropriety of
«iiis conduit, he now makes his appeal upon a par
tial representation, knowing 1 am not at liberty to
ilate all that passed, the particulars of which shall
appear as soon as it may be consistent with my fafe
ty in a point of view, in which asjttajcr Burrows
is himfeif apprised, my (ffcntial interelts at pre
sent impose a Gler.ce as to fonie part of the pro
ceedings.
Wuh regsra to my being " an intemperate
young man." 1/ do not helitate to declare, that
many people unacquainted with all the circum
stances that have transpired, within the lait week
may be of that opinion ; 1 am however confident,
that it r.iuft be admitted that major Burrows's an
fwer to my note of Bth infta it, must be consider
ed equally remarkable for its want of sensibility.
I now join major Burrows in an appeal to the
pu ric to decide on our conduit, and aft, whether
it is iivfyutable 1.0 any backwardness on my part that
we have not met. I conceived myfelf much in
jure;!, 1 invited tnajor Burrows to the field at an
early hour. A compliance with my firft invitation
would have infureii an interview—it was evaded
by him.
As a refutation of major Burrows's n ta bene,
the affidavit of the conttable is hereto added, and
will shew the diffident ground 011 which we were
placed in the particulars riferred to in the said no
ta bene.
WILSON BUNT.
Patrick Dixon, being duly f\Vorn, declares and
fay*, that on Sunday lalt he received a warrant
signed by the chief justice nf this commonwaalth,
to apprehend Mr. Wilson Hunt, and bring him
before the chief justice; that at about half after
ten o'clock on Saturday night hs arrested Mr.
Hunt by virtue of the said warrant; that bail was
ess.red for Mr. Hunt, which Mr. Hunt, rcfufed,
and would not fuffer to be taken : that the depon
ent determined to do hii duty, and took Mr. Hunt
out of the house with an intention to lodge him in
jail, that he proceeded withl\ r. Hunt within two
fquarcs of the jail, Mr. Hunt endeavoring by
threats and promises to let him go. At lalt the
deponent informed Mr. Hunt, that if he would
pledge his word and honor that he would not mo
lest, hurt, or injure the person of major William
W.Burrows; and ta be at the house of the chief
justice at'ten o'clock next day, he would let him
go, other-.vileTie would put him in prison ; where
upon Mr. Hunt, (the deponent suppose-) feeing
that there was no other mean's by which he could
avoid imprjfonment, did solemnly pledge his word
and honor in the manner above mentioned. Ihe
depenent thf n told Mr. Hunt that it was his confi
dence in his honor that induced him to take his
word in 11 end of confining him, and that he relied
upon his honor not to do any thing that lheuld
bring either him, the deponent,or Mr. Hunt him
feif into trouble in jhn'b'afineft, or injure the per
son of major Borrows, iHe deponent further
fays', that he alfo#iad a warrant against rtiajor Bur
row, which he lerved, but that he did net inlilt
on a fimjlar engagement frorii hi»n, but merely a
declaration that he would meet the deponent at the
chief Hiffice's at ten o'clock the next morning, and
keep the peace in the mean time, and further this
deponent liyeth bo:.
(Signed) PATRICK DIXON,
Conllable,
Sworn and fubferibed before me, the 15th of
June, i; 9;.
RE VNOI.D KEF.M,
One of the a'ldfrmen cf the city of Philarlclphi?.
%ijt tiPasetfo. *
-
PtiitAD EL P HIA ,
FRIDAY EVENING, ftxc 16.
%%m%> k
OF THE UNITED STATES.
PubliJJjed by Authority.
FIFTH CONGRESS
OF THE UNITED STATES.
• AT THE fIRST SESSION',
Berlin and held at the City of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pcnnfylvania, on Mon
day, the "fifteenth day of May,
one thousand fevea hundred
and n 1 nety-feveil.
An Act prohibiting, for a limited time, the Ex?
portation of Arms and Ammunition, and for
encouraging the Importation thereof.
BE it enaSed by the Senate and House of
■Representatives of the United States ofAirtirica,
in Congress aJferAh\ed, That it shall not be
lawful to export from the United States, any
cannon, rriufkets, pistols, bayonets, swords,
cutlasses, muiket-balls, lead, bombs, grena
des, gun-'povvder,. fulpher, or fakpetre, but
the exportation of all the aforefaid articles
is hereby prohibited, until to the end of the
next session of Congress, and no longer.
And be it further cnatted, That any of the
aforefaid articles, excepting such of them as
may constitute a part of the equipment of
any vessel, which during the continuance of
this prohibition shall be found on board of
any veflel in any river, port, bay or harbour
within the territory of the United States,
put on board with an intent to be exported
from the United States, frail be forfeited,
and in cafe the value thereof shall amount
te one hundred dollars, the veflel on board
of which the fame shall be seized, together
with her tackle, apparel and furniture shall
also be forfeited. Provided ■ nevertheless,
That nothing in this adl shall be conllrued to
prohibit the removal or transportation of
any of the articles aforefaid from one port to
another port Within the United States, in
any vessel having a license as a coasting ves
sel, the master, agent or owner of which shall
have given bond with one or more fufllcient
sureties, to the colleftor of the diftrift from
which such vessel is about to depart, in a sum
double the value of such vessel and of such
of the said articles as may be laden on board
of her, that the said articles shall be re-landed
and delivered in some port of the United
States. Or to prevent the exportation of
any of the above articles on public account
under the direction of the President of the
United States.
And be it further enaßed, That If any of
the aforefaid articles shall, contrary to the
prohibitions of this aJt, be exported from
the United States, the vessel in which the
fame shall have been exported, together with
her tackle, apparel and furniture, shall be
forfeited, and the captain or master of such
vessel knowingly offending in the premises,
shall be liable to indiflment, and upon con
viftion shall forfeit and pay a sum not ex
ceeding one thousand dollars, which (hall be
distributed in like manner as is herein-after
provided as to other forfeitures incurred un
der this aft.
And be it further enaded, That it shall be
the duty of the Custom-House Officers, and
of all persons employed in the colleftion of
the Revenue, to attend to the execution of
this Law, and all forfeitures, and penalties
incurred under it and not otherwise direfted
to be prosecuted and recovered, shall be su
ed for, prosecuted, adjudged and distributed
in like manner as is provided in the Aft,
intitled, " An Aft to provide more effeftu
*lly for the colleftion of the duties imposed
by law on goods* wares and merchandize
imported into the United States, and on the
tonnage of ships and vessels."
And be it further enacted, That all brass
cannon, muskets and firelocks with bayonets
suited to the fame, pistols, swords, cutlasses,
mulket-balls, lead, and gun-powder, which
fliall be imported into the United States
from any foreign country, within the term
of one year, and all fulpher and falt-petre
which shall be so imported within the term
of two years from and after the palling of
this Aft, shall be free of duty, any thing in
any former Law to the contrary notwith
standing.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
THOS. JEFFERSON,
Vice-President of the United States, and
President of the Senate.
Approved June 14th, 1707.
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
Depofitcd among the Rolls in the Office »f the
Department of State-.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Secretary of State.
AN ACT
7 0 prevent Citizens of the United States from
privateering againjl Nations in Amity with,
or against the citizens of the United States.
BE it enafted by the Senate and House
of Representatives of the United States of
America, in Congress assembled, That if
any citizen or citizens of the United States,
shall, without the limits of the fame, fit out
and arm, or attempt to fit out and arm, or
procure to be fitted out and armed, or (hall
knowingly aid or to be concerned in the fur
nilhing, fitting out or arming any private
ship or vessel of war, with intent that such
ship or vessel shall be employed to cruize or
commit hostilities, upon the citi
zens, or. property of any Prince or State
with whom the United States atfe at peace,
or upon the citizens of the United States
or their property, or shall take the command
of, or enter on board of, any such ship or
vessel for the intent aforefaid;- or (hall pur
chase an mtersft in any vessel so fitted out
ta;reoi, hic<i perion orperlous, io ottena
iiig ihall, on cormdtion thereof,
guilty of a high misdemeanor, andVlhali be
punished by a fine not exceeding ten tliou
fand dollars, and imprilonment not exceed
ing ten pears: And the trial far fuchoffence
if committed without the limits of the Uni
ted States, (hall be in the diftridt where the
offender (hall beapprehended orfirii brought.
And be it further enadted, That nothing
in the foregoing aft (hall be conßrued to
prevent the prosecution or punishment of
treason, or any piracy defined byatreaty or
other law of the United States.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
THOMAS JEFFERSON,
Vice President of the United States, and
President of the Senate.
ApprO-jed, June 14, r 797.
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the Office of
the Department of State.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Secretary as State.
PAPERS
Which accompanied the Prefid nfs MeJJage of
the 12th irjl. on Spanish affairs.
REPORT
Of the Secretary of State, to the President
of the United States, of the proceedings
of Andrew Ellicott, Commif
fioner for running the boundary line bet
ween the United States, and East and
Weft Florida.
Department of State,
June 10, 1797.
The. Secretary of State refpedtfully re
ports to the President of the United States,
the substance of the information received tlie
Bth inft. from Andrew Eljicott, Esquire,
the Commiflioner of'the United States ap
pointed to run the boundary line between
their territory and his Catholic Majesty's
Colonies of East and Weft Florida.
Although Mr. Ellicott left Philadelphia,
in September, 1796, to proceed by the
Ohio and Miffifippi rivers, to the Natchez,
the place appointed by the Treaty with
Spain, at which the Comrm'ffioners of the
two governments were to meet, yet owing,
to the lownefs of the waters of the Ohio, he
did not reach its mouth until the 19th day
of December ; two days after which, both
the Ohio and Miffifippi were almoll frozen 1
over. On the 21ft January, the ice began
to give way, and their store boat arriving on
the 28th, they proceeded on the 31ft for the
Natchez. On the 21ft February, Mr. Elli
cott received a letter, (No. I.) from his
Catholic Majesty's Governor, Gayofo dc ,
Lemos, dated at the Natchez the 17 th Fe- !
bruary, mentioning the information he had
received of his appproaching arrival, attend- |
cdby.a military guard and l'ome woodsmen, !
and desiring that the, troops might be left a- ;
bout the Mouth of Bayon Pierre ; afiigning j
for hia reason, that thereby every unforefeen
njifunderftanding between the troops of the i
two powers wouldbe prevented. With this
request, from -views of accommodation, Mr.
Ellicott complied. Bayon Pierre is about
60 miles above the Natchez.
On the 24th February, Mr. Elh'cottreach
ed the Natchez, and immediately by a let- i
ter, acquainted Governor Gayofo, of his
arrival.. The Governor on the fame day re
turned an answer, (No. 2.) The day fol
lowing they had an interview, and fixed on
the 19th of March to proceed down the ri
ver to Clarkefville, near which it was sup
posed the line would commence. The Mon
day following, Februaay 27th, Mr. Elli
cott wrote a letter (No. 3.) to the Baron
de Carondelet, his Catholic Majesty's Go
vernor General of Louisiana, and the Com
miflioner named by the Court of Spain, for
ascertaining the boundary line, to inform him
of his arrival at the Natchez,- as the Com
mifiioner of the United' States. The Ba
ron's answer, (No. 4.) dated March ift,
was received the 9th, and on the fame day
Governor Gayofo waited on Mr. Ellicott,
and informed him that the Baron, in conse
quence of interesting concerns below,'liad
declined to attend, and that the whole bu
siness had devolved on him. Mr. Ellicott
expressed his fatisfa&ionj because he expect
ed that he, Governor Gayofo, would be
immediately ready to proceed. The Gov
ernor answered, —" No time (hall be loft ;
" but I fear I (hall not be ready by the
" 19th ; and although the Baron declines
" adting 011 account of the business which
" demands his constant attention at Orleans,
" he is nevertheless desirous of having an
'• interview with you ; and for that purpose
" has ordered a galley to be fitted up for
" ypur use and accommodation to New Or
" leans.'—-Mr. Ellicotr considered that the
third article of the treaty with Spain, re
quired the Commiflioners for running the
boundary line to meet at the Natchez ; and
that being then at his post, it was his duty
to remain there, until the Spanish Commis
sioner (hould be ready to proceed with hir*;
to the place where the line fho'uld commence
—and therefore he declined the Baron'S invi
tation.
On the 27th of February, Mr, Ellicott
encamped at the upper end of the town of
Natchez, about a-quarter of a mile from the
i fort- ocupied by the Spanish troops ; and
. two days after hoisted the flag of the United
I States. Upon this he received a verbal mef
i f :ge from Governor Gayofo, by his aid,
Major Minor, desiring the flag might be
! |aken down, which Mr. Ellicott declined do
j ing. The request Was Yiot repeated. Here Mr.
i Ellicott began his aftrononvical observations,
; and fouxjl the hill on whichhe was encamp
| ed, to be in latitude 31 o. 33'. 46". or a
; bout 39 miles north of the south boundary
i of the United States.
In this situation, Mr. Ellicott was told
■ alarming stories about the unfavorable cjjf
' polit,ion of the Indians, under an idea that
: the United States were meditating their de
| ftrudtion. The whole settlement was for
some days fvvarming with them ; and they
knives. For his own fafety he frequently
iffucd provisions to them. Thus critically
circumstanced, he, on the nth of March,
wrote to Governor Gayofo the letter, No.
5, to which he received the answer, No. 6.
But in the mean timg, Mr. Ellicott had
sent an express to the commanding officer of
his escort (consisting of only 25 men) which,
in comphiiianeeto the governor's firft request,
he he had It* lixty miles up the river, to
come down diredtly to the Natchez.—And
being determine;! not to countermand this
order/ he, 011 the 13th, wrote to governor
Gayofo the letter, No. 7. propoling Bacon's
landing, about a mile below*his camp, for
the station of his escort; but before this
letter was sent, he had an interview with the
governor, who undertook to prove the pro
priety and necessity of the whole party from
the United States going down to Clark's
place, and closed his reasoning by observing,
That if the escort did land at thfe Natchez,
he (hould consider it as an insult offered to
the king his master. Mr. Ellicottthentelling
thegovernor, that he fhpuld fend him immedi
atelyananfwerin writing,obferved. That the
desire which was constantly manifefted to
draw him from \!he Natchez)
appended very lingular, as it was dcfignated
in the late treaty Jjetween his Catholic ma
jesty and the United States, as the place of
meeting for the commiflioners 5 and therefore,
that he (hould reject every propofitioa that
was intended to draw him from his present
situation, until the commiflioner and furvey
oron behalf of the crown of Spain were rea
dy to proceed to business. To which the
governor replied, " Sir, you either mistake
" my meaning, or I have expressed myfelf
u very badly. Ido not want you to leave
" this place, but on the contrary, lam de
" firous for you to take up your residence
" in my house ; you will live there ,much
" more comfortably than in a tent." Mr.
Ellicott faid, v that his tent was much more
agreeable than a palace ; for in his camp h*
enjoyed an independence charadteriftie of
the nation he had the honor to represent.
The next morning, Mr. Ellicott sent his
letter, No. 7. and the fame day received the
governor's answer, No. 8, expressing his
entire fatisfadtion with Mr. Ellicott's senti
ments, as uniformly agreeing with his own,
in every thing which could combine the mu
tual interests of the two nations.
The evening following,. (March 15th)
Mr. Ellicott's escort arrived at the landing,
and the next day Went down to. the place he
had proposed for their station.
The officer of the escort having found in
the settlement a number of deserters from
the American army, took them up. This
oc<»fioned some verbal communications be
tween governor Gayofo and Mr. Ellicott,
the former desiring the deserters might be
difmifled.' Mr. Ellicott thereupon proposed
this arrangement: That such deserters from
the army of the United States as came into
that country, and took the protedtion of the
Spanish government prior to the time fixed
by the treaty for the evacuation of the posts,
(hould, for the present, remain unmolested;
but that such as had come to that country '
since that time (hould be liable to he taken 1
and detained.
About the time Mr. Ellicott's escort ar- 1
rived, the principal part of the artillery was '
taken out of the fort and carried to the land
ing? and every appearance made of a speedy
evacuation ; but on the 22dof March, great
industry was used ir carrying cannon back
to the fort, which were immediately re
mounted. This gave great alarm to the in
habitants of the diftridt, who generally ma
nifefted a desire of being declared fubjedts of 1
ftie United States, "and at once to renounce
the Spanish jurifdidtion. In order to quiet :
the minds of the inhabitants, and to be able
to give them some reasons for the governor's
condudt, which now began to be considered 1
as hostile io the United States, Mr. Elli
cott, on the 23d of March, wrote the letter,
No. 9, which was followed by a note, No.
10, to which he received the governor's au- -
fwer, No. 11. This answer, containing in
formation that the important business of
running the boundary line should soon be
commenced, and an assurance that nothing
could prevent the religious compliance with
the treaty, Mr. Ellicott expressed his fatis
fadtion in his letter to the governor, No. 12.
It being now reported, that the Ameri
can troops would be down in a few days,
the governor sent by his aid, to Mr. Ellicott,
an open letter from the governor diredted to
captain Pope, who, it was said commanded
those troops, informing him, that for fundrv
reasons it would be proper, and conducive j
to the harmony of the two nations,,for him
felf and the detachment under his command
to remain at or near the place where the let- 1
ter should meet him, until the posts should be 1
evacuated ; and as every preparation was i
making for that purpose, the delay would be 1
but a tew days, when he would be happy
to fee him at the Natchez. This proposal to
captain Pope, the governor, in his letter,
No. 13, desired Mr- Ellicott to second.
Upon reading the letter, Mr. Ellicott ob
served to major Minor, that it was impossible
for him to join in the governor's request to
captain Pope, as it was well known to him,
(Mr. Ellicatt) that instead of evacuating
the posts, they were making theiTi more de
fenfible. However, Mp. Ellicott said, he
would write a letter to the officer command
ing the detachment, at\d requested major
Minor (as he was-to l>c the bearer -of the
governor's letter to the Hills) to :
take charge of it; to which he had no ob
jediion. This letter is No. 14. 1
On the 28th of March, the if- ■
fuedthe Proclamation, No. 15, bearing the i
date of March 29th, and another, No. 16, 1
bearing the fame date, with the avovved ob- 1
jedt of quieting the minds of the inhabi- :
tants ; but they produced a contrary effedt.
As soon as the Governor discovered this,
requested two gentlemen of the settlement,
to inform Mr. Ellicot that he, the Gover
nor, had received diredtions from the Gene
rat in Chief, the Baron de Carondelet, to
j have the artillery and military (lores exjpedj-
immediately to be given up to the troops of
the United States iipon their arrival. Great
pains were, taken to inculcate this report ;
but it did not remove fufpieions. In order,
therefore, to obtain a direst explanation,—
Mr. Ellicott, on the 31ft of March, wrote
to the Governor the letter No 17, inclosing
two paragraphs, No. ißj of an address he
had received from a number of refpeftable
inhabitants of the DiUriel. The Gover
nor's answer, No. 19, of the fame date,
confirmed every suspicion, as it contained
art explicit declaration, that his general had
him pontive orders to suspend the
evacuation of the pails until the two Gov
ernments fhQiild determine, whether the
works were to be left Handing, or to be <te
molifhed ; and until, by an additional arti
cle to the treaty, the real property of the in
habitants (hould be secured ; agreeably to
his Proclamations, in which the Governar
thought proper to tell the inhabitants, -th±
negotiations were on foot between his Ca
tholic Majesty and the United States, for
the adjustment of that and other matters.—
It may not be improper to remark, that nts
such negociation has exilled ; and that t n's
is the tirft time that these objections to the
evacuation of the post? have been heard of.-
This peremptory declaration of Governor
Gayofo requires no comment.
Mr. Ellicott fays, that with the exception
of about eight pvrfons, including some offi*
cers, all the inhabitants of the Natchez dil
trift (within the limits of the United States)
are deiirous of coming under their jurisdic
tion, and to have a Government eftabiiflied
there, limilar to that north-weft of the river
Ohio. My enquiries enable me to add, —
that the population amounts to near four
thousand fouls.
Mr. Ellicott further informs, that he has
not only reason to believe,but is certain that
many grants for lands in that diftrift, have
been given out by the officers of the gov
ernment of Louisiana, since the ratification
of the late treaty, and that their surveyors
are now executing the surveys.
011 the 14th of April, when Mr. Elli
cott was folding up his dispatches, he re
ceived from Governor Gayofo the letter,
No. 20, of that dat<?, complaining of the
inliftment of persons in that diftrift, as an
infringement of the rights of his Catholic
Majesty ; and requesting ihat the p'erions
inlifted might be discharged : To which
Mr. Ellicott immediately returned the an
swer, 21 ; observing, that the matter
required investigation ; but a {Turing Gover
nor Gayofo, that he would be careful nei
ther to infringe the rights of the fubjefts of
his Catholic Majesty, nor willingly fuffer
those of the citizens of the United States
to be infringed.
The bearer of Mr. Ellicott's dispatches
informs me, that before he left the Natchez
they had heard that two gun-boats were
preparing at New-Orleans to bring uj> rein
forcements ; and since his arrival I have re
ceived information which, connefted with
this detail of fafts, is entitled to belief,—
That about the tenth of May, three large
boats, full of troops, besides a party by land,
set off from New-Orleans for the Natchez.
It was added, for the purpose of driving off
the Continental troops that had taken pof
felfion, agreeably to the late treatv.
TIMOTHY PICKERING.
(No. I.')
Manuel Gayofo de Lemos to the ion. A. Ellicott.
SIR.
SOME gentlemen that left you at the
mouth of the Ohio, have informed me of
your approaching arrival here, and that to
attend you on your .commission you bring a
military guard and some woods-men.
It is with pleasure, that I propose mvfelf
the fatisfaftion of feeing you here, anil to
make your acquainance.
Though I do not conceivs that the least
difficulty will, arise r«.ipefting the execution
of the part of the treaty in which you are
an afting person j yet, as we are not pre
pared to evacuate the posts immediately, for
want of the vefiels that I expeft will arrive
soon, I find it indifpeniable to request you
to leave the troops about the mouth of Bay
on Pierre, where they may be provided with
all tjjeir neceffacies which you can regulate
on your arrival here. By this means, every
unforefeen misunderstanding will be preven
ted between his Majesty's troops, and those
of the United States ; besides, it is r.ecef
faiy to make fame arrangements previous
to the arrival of the troops, on which fub
jeft I fi'.all have the honor of entertaining
you when we meet.
I embrace thii opportunity to afiure you
of the fatisfaftion I feel in being appointed
to aft in concert with you, though your
firft interview is to be with the General in
Chief of this Province.
I have the honor to be,
with the highest confideratiou, •
Sir,
Your ruoft humble,
and obedient servant,
Manuel Gayoso de Eemos.
Natchez, Feb. 17, 1707,
(Copy.)
The Hon. A. Ellicott,
(No. 2.)
Bar an de Caror.Je'et to the hon■ A. E'\ Jt\
Natchez, 24th Feb, 1797.
SIR,
B * your favor of this dav, delivered to
me by Mr. Nolan, I leam with pleasure,
your arrival at this ppft, in the -character of
Commissioner in behalf of the United States,
tq a (certain the boundaries between the ter
ritories of h:r, most Catholic Majesty and the
laid United States.
I have the honor to be, ■*
with the highest refpeft.
Sir,
Your mod humble servant,
!'»!anuel Gayoso de Lemo?.
J c °py-)
The Hon. A Ellicott.(No. 3.
v llor.trable Andrew lillirot:, ts fst B.irt : He
CarovJclt.
Natchez, Feb. 27, 1797. I
sir,
IT is with pleasure I embracetliis. op-,
portmiity of informing you of-my fafe'ar-,
rival at tljis place, as Commissioner in behalf
of the United States, for afcertaiuing the
boundaries" between the 'territories of hits
most Catholic Majesty and those of'.the
United States. '
The polite manner in whieh I have been
received at the pcfts on the Miffifippi, now
in the pofieflion of his most Catholic Ma
jtftty, demands my thanks and gratitude,
and am in hopes that a fimiiar conduiS will
be observed on bur part.
I have the honor to be, &c. &c.
Andrew E*.licott.
(Copy.)
1 tie Baron de Carondelet.
(TRANSLATION.)
New-Orleans, March ift, 1797.
DEAR SIR,
I HAVE received with great fatisfac
tion, your friendly letter of, the 27th of
February last in consequence of v.'liich, I
congratulate you on your. arrival in this
country in the character of Commissioner
on the part of the United States, to run the
dividing line between the territories of his
raoft Catholic Majesty, and the U. States.
You likewise did me the favor to mention
with what kindness and attention you were
received at the different polls, as .well as by
the whole Government under my direction ;
from the general principles of your na
tion, I have no doubt but the ; ame conduct
will be observed on the part of the United 1
States;
God guard you,
Most excellent Sir. (
Baron pf. Carondelet. (
Andrew Ellicott, Esq.
(N<M-) , ;
hon A* Ellicott, to Manuet Gayofo de Lemos. ]
Natchez, March 11, 1797.,
MY DEAR SIR, 1
The conduct of the Indians yesterday
and last night, owing principally to their '■
constant state of intoxication, renders it ab- 1
folutely necessary, in my opinion, to have re- 1
course to my military escort for protection. !
The discipline of our army is such, that you '
may reft assured, none of the inconveniences 1
mentioned in your firft communication to c
me, are to be apprehended from the escort's 1
being stationed at this place on our part
And as the attendance of the guard forms a ,
part of the treaty now carrying into effect 0
between his most Catholic Majesty and the '
United States, which I am authorized to
declare will be observed by the nation I have "
the honor to represent, with good faith and '
punctuality, I mull requeftthe favor of you '
to withdraw your objections against my es
cort's joining me at this place as soon as
possible.
I am, &c. &c.
Andrew Ellicott. '
(Copy.) 1
His Ex'ey Manuel Gayoso de Lemos, j?
, (No. 6.) p
Manuel Gayofo de Lemos to the hon. A. Ellicott. p
Natchez, March 12th, 1797. e:
my dear sir,' p
This morning I had the pleasure to re- ri
ceive your amicable communication, dated rr
yesterday. I give you my sincere thanks m
for having eftablilhedthisform ofintercourfe, ei
as it will make our business more easy, and
indeed it is more conformable to the ijneere tr
friendfhip we have contracted. * ra
In answer to your said letter, I will re- c<
mark, that such conduCt of the Indians is m
not customary here ; I forefaw that it would jo
happen from the moment you shewed a de
sire of haying your colours flying, before all
the transaCtions were terminated ; knowing
the Indians as well as I do, this, was the
reason of the objections I offered the mo
ment I saw it hoisted, for otherwise I know ac
it very well, that it is frequently used by ti<
the representatives of nny nation in aforeign
country ; it's even done in Spain by foreign
Consuls. M
I am sorry you lhould have experienced any
inconveniency from this particular cireum
ftance, and that urged by such effeCta to
vvilh to have by you your escort. I have not th
the least objection that it lhould be called, an
from its aCtual llation ; but as it i« my duty, mi
and that lam anfwerqj>le for the tranquility ca
o'f the country that isentryfted to mycharge, tic
I mull propose to you a method that will fla:
answer every good and fatisfaCtory purpose. gi
Had not you been unluckily ttopped on m;
your voyage to this country,you would have mi
had immediately the General of the Provin co
here, to begih the operation of demarking ef
the divifory line between the territories of
his Catholic Majesty and those of the United
States of America. He had every necessary
preparation to attend to the business ; but
Jioce the time he had a right to expeCt the
Commissioners of the United States, the T!
war with England has taken place, and his
cares thereby increased, yet he cxpeCted to
have had it in his porwer to come to meet
you at Daniel Clarke's, Esq. which place
is near tlje.point of the 31 o, but he has
found it impossible, as it would oblige him pi;
to make too long an abfe'nce from New Or- art
Jeans ; therefore, it is myfelf that will have it,
the honor to accompanyyou on that import of
snt> commission, on behalf of his Catholic W
Majesty. This is the moment when lam in up
want of every individual thing, both for my rei
j erlon, and for the attendants of the com- be
mission, tho' the Geometer -and other offi- pu
cers that are to be employed, are already on m;
their way from New Orleans, and will Hop U
at Clarkefville, where I (ball go myfelf as gi
foon as my equipage arrives from the capi- rei
til { but tliis will inevitably take some time, I;
therefore theplan that I wished to arrange
with you, will be to make Loftus's C/ifts,
our point ofYe union. This place is a-(hort H
distance from Clarkefville, and it is a very
heahbv fit tuition ; —there I will fend every
tning concerning the eomnvffion ;'
and that will be the moid convenient place to I
eftabliih, for a \Vh:lc, your head quarters,
unuer your military cfcort. By adopting
this measure, you will have' your people to
r"' get her, and the most diftii'nt disagreeable
j£' occurrence avoided, as I am positively con-
fident that fixne Would happen by the cori
\ junction here, as you propose. It is true,
* that by the treaty an escort is fyppofed, a,nd
even recommended to each commission, but
'it' s to be on the line, and not at a distance
from it where it would interfere with other
t business ; therefore I feel feniibly hurt that
it is out of my power to consent in the land
[j ing of the troops in this place, tho' I have
not the least objeClion on their foinz directly
toLoftus's Cliffs.
I have given the most orders to
prevent, the Indians getting liquor ; and to
their interpreter I have given the ftrifteft
charge to be always in fight, and to-morrow
I expCCi that they will remove to some dis
tance from hence.
I have the honor to be, with the highest
refpgCt and esteem,
Your most affeCtionate friend,
r And humble servant,
| MANUEL GAYOSO DE LEMOS.
( A true copy.)
D. Gillf.spie, Secretary.
The honorable Andrew Ellicott. *
5 (No. 7.
Hon. A I'Hi'Oil to Manuel Gcyofo de Lemos.
Natchez, March 13th, 1797.
MY DEAR SIR, J
YOU R of yesterday v?as handed to '
1 me in du* time, which would have been
answered sooner, had not the storm last night '
prevented me from writing in my. tent
1 our letter, as well as many circumftanees
which have come to my knowledge, contain
frefh proofs of your desire to promote good
order and harmony in this part of the coun- '
try. Cut, !.-, I cannot suppose that any in
convtnience could pofTibly arise, or the peace
of this settlement be disturbed by the arrival
and landing of the escort which I left at ■
Bayon Pierre : If I did suppose the contra- j
ry, I trull that I (hould be one of the last \
persons to propose the measure. In my /
opinion, the escort which accompanied me,
is as much bound to observe good order in
this country, as the troops of his Catholic 0
majesty. This is not an opinion of the day, J
it has uniformly been mine ever since I left c
the feat of our government : In consequence t
of which, immediately upon my entering p
the Miffifippi, I issued a standing order, that b
when any of our party, the military inclu- t,
ded, lhould be at any place where the juris
diction wasexercifed by his Catholic majes
ty, the laws and ufagesrof that government b
lhould be observed and submitted to in the «
most pointed manner. The escorts by the a
spirit of the treaty, are inteifded for our mu- f
tual protection against ftragling hostile In- b,
dians, and the preservation of ot»;ftores.
This appear to be their whole bulrnefs.
As I hope that mere punctilios may never °j
interrupt our friendfhip, and the conduct of »'
the Indians having become more peaceable "
fihee the night before last, I am less anxious P
for the escort's being stationed at my pre- J'
sent encampment: I would,''therefore, to r <
prevent any dillurbance or misunderstanding, f:
propoie that the officer who commands the
escort which accompanied me to Bayon
Pierre, be direCted to proceed down the
river to Bacon Landing, from whence he ' '
may come to this place, and procure such
neceffarics as he may be in want of for the
ensuing season. "
As this is the place designated by the
treaty for our meeting, and making our ar
rangement* for carrying on the bulinefs, I
conceive there would be an impropriety in
my leaving it till your excellency is ready to "t
join me in fixing the firft point of latitude. j
I am, &c. See. ta
ANDREW ELLICOTT. '■>
(Copy.) si
D. Gillespie, Secretary. - J'
Note.—The last two paragraphs were
added after having had a private conversa
tion with the governor. V y
* (NoT 8.)
Manuel Gayofa de Lemos to the hon. A. Ellicott.
Natchez, 14th March, 1797.
my dear sir, .
IDO myfelf the pleasure to acknowledge /
the receipt of your favor, dated of yesterday, '
and am very happy to find, that our senti
ments Uniformly agree in every thing that f
can combine the mutual interests of our na- J
tions, and I pledge you my honor and friend- f
(hip, that every step of my conduCt (hall be n' n
guided by this principle, impressed in tne by 4
;ny duty and by the very particular attach- ''
ment I have for yoA.
I have the honor to be, with the great eft
esteem and affection,
My dear fir,
5 our most humble obedient servant, " <
MANUEL GAYOSO DE LEMOS. f
(Copy.) f'"
D.Gillespie, Secretary. 7 '
The honorable Andrew Ellicott.
(No .9.) A,
Hon A. Ellicott to Mann,l Gayofo de Lemos. Ct.
Natchez, Mtireh 23d, 1797. a tl
MY DEAR SIR, lro
IHE re-mounting of the cannon at this $/ c
place at the very moment when our troops 0 f
are daily expected down to take pofiefiion of j ee
it, the insolent treatment which the citizens f rc
of the United States have received at the
Walnut Hills, and the delay in the business
upon which I came, concur in 'giving me
reason to suppose, that the treaty will not
be observed with the fame good faith and tin
punctuality by the fubje&s of his Catholic p s(
majesty, as it will be by the citizens of the da
United States. I.hope your excellency will Co
give such an explanation of the above, as to jbc
remove my doubts and apprehensions, which, an
I am afraid have been too justly excited. tvt
I am, &c. &c. gi e
ANDREW ELLICOTT. by
Ills excellency v na
Manuel Gayoso.de'Lemos. his
[To'be continued.] act
I
PHILADELPHIA,,
m- Fi'.IOAY r.VEKIXC, JUMC 16.
Di- j
nd t '/llf.
Ut (7
5T A PROCLAMATION.
joh-Fadams,
] y president of the united states
OF AMERICA,
t To all to whom these Presents fiiall come—
Lo greeting..
W \KT H - EREA . S Treat y of Peace and
j'_ V V Friendfliip has been concluded in
the manner herein after mentioned, by the
jj. Plenipotentiary of the United States of
America and the Bey and fubjefts of Tri
poli of Barbary ; which Treaty written in
the Arabic language, being tranflatcd into j
the language of the United States is in the
words following, to wit :
Treaty of Peace and Friendship
Between the United States of America
and the , Bey and Subjefts of Tripoli cf
Barbary.
Article
There is a firm and perpetual peace and
friend/hip between the United States of Ameri-
Q ca, and the Bey and Subjzßs of Tripoli of
Barbary, made by the free consent of both
parties, and guarantied by the Mofi Potent
Dey and Regency of Algiers.
Article 1.
If any goqds belonging to any nation with
j which either of the parties is at war, shall
be loaded on board of vejfels belonging to
the other party, they Jhall pass free, and no
attempt Jhall be made to take or detain them.
'' Article 3.
' If any Citizens, Subjeßs or Ejfeßs belong
-1 ing tn either party, Jhall be found on board a
- prize •uejfel taken from an enemy by the other
t party, such Citizens or Subjects Jhall be set at
f liberty, and the eJfeßs rejlored to the owners.
y Article 4.
1 Proper passports are to be given to all vejfels
1 of both parties, by which they are to be known.
, And considering the difiance between the two
t countries, eighteen month from the date of this
- treaty shall be allowed for procuring such pajf- '
\ ports. During this interval the other papers
t belonging to such vejfels Jhall be fujficient for
- their proteQinn.
>
A citizen or fubjefi of either party having ,
bought a prize~condemned by the party or by a
ny other nation, the certificate of condemnation ,
; and bill of sale shall be a fujficient pajfport for
■ such vejfel for one year : this being a reafona- •
. ble time for her to procure a proper pajfport. ,
Article 6.
Vffels of either party putting into the ports
■ of the other and having need of proijfions or (
■ other fupp!ies, they Jhall be furnlfbed at the
market price. And if any fuchveffel Jhall so
, put ri from a dtfajler *tt f* a - have octet
. fion to repair, Jhe Jhall be at liberty to land and ,
re-embark her cargo, without paying any du- (
ties. But in no cafe Jhall Jhe be compelled to (
land her cargo. |.
Article 7. f ■
Should a vejfel of either party be cafl on j
the shore of the other, all proper qjjiflar.ee Jhall'
be given to hfr and htr peoplt ; no pillage Jhall ,
be allowed, thepropertyjfhall remain at thedifpcji~ j
tion of the owners, and the crew proteSed and
succoured 'till they (an be fen! to their country. 1
Article 8. .
If a vejfl of either party Jhould be attacked C
by an enemy within gun Jhot of the forts of the C
other, she Jhall be defended as much as pojfible. J
If Jhe be in port, Jhe Jhall not te seized or at
tacked when it is in the power of the other par- f
ty protect her ; and when Jhe proceeds to ' 1
feci no enemy Jhall be allowed to pvrfue her
from the fame port wiihin twenty four hours 1
after her departure.
» Article 9.
The commerce between the United Slates and
Tripoli—the proteSion to be given to Merchants,
Masters of vejfels and feamcy —the reciprocal (
right of ejlablifhing Consuls in each country,
and the privileges, immunities and jurifdiSions
to be enjoyed by such Consuls, are declared to
bf on the fame footing with those of the mofi
favored nations KefpeSively.
*■ Article 10.
The money at}dprefents demanded by the Bey
of Tripoli as a full and fitisfaSory confidera. I
tion on his part, and on the part of his fubjeSs,
for this Treaty of perpetual peace and friend-
Jhip, are acknowledged to have been received j E
by him previous to his signing the fame, ac- '
cording to a receipt which is hereto annexed,
except such part as is promised on the part cf
the United States to be delivered , and paid by
therp on the arrival of their Consul in Tripoli, 0
of which part a note is like wife hereto annexed. %v
And no pretence of any periodical tribute or F
farther payment is ever to be made, by either ] e
party.
Article it.
As the Government of the United States cf
America is not in any sense founded on the
Chrijlian Religion, as it has in itfelf no char- j,,
atler of enmity againjl the laws, religion or gj
tranquility of Mujfelmen—and as the said «
States have never entered into any war 'or a 8 c(
of hojlility againjl any Mahometan nation, it is
declared by the parties, that no'jrretext arising - 3
from religious-opinions Jhall ever produce an te
interruption of the harmony exifti'ng between the
two countries. K
Article 12. "
1 In cafe of any dispute arising from a viola
fion of any of the articles of tjils treaty, no af>-
peal Jhall be made to arms, nor Jhall war be it
declared on any pretext whatever. But if the £c
Consul residing at the place where the dispute 11
Jhall happen, fiall not be able to fettle the fame,
an qmicable reference fijall be made to the mu~
ti'iil friend of the parties, the D.\i of Al
giers, the parlies hereby engaging to -abide
by his decision. And he, by virtue of his sig
nature to this treaty, engages for hirrjelj' and- "
his successors, to declare the jvfiice of the cafe 1
according to the true irterpretafion of the treaty, 'J
ct'ui id i'jr all the merits his v'jOJcr In cpfurce
th: ebfirv'aiice of the fume.
* r]lZsigned and Staled at Tripoli if Barlnry,
the srd Day of Jtcmad in thr-yecr qf
the Higeua 1211—corr.fpondbig with
the November ljq6-—by
{i.s.)JUSSUP BASHAW MAHOMET,
* Bey.
ft. s.J MA MET, Trcafurer.
(■L. s.J A MET, Minifier ef -Marine.
( l. s.J A MET, Chamberlain.
(1. s.J ALLY, Chief of the Divan.
]. (1. s.J SO LI MAN, KATA,
( L. s.J GALIL, General of the Troops,
(l. S.J MAI'K)MET, Cindt. of the City.
(1. s.J MA MET, Secretary.
Signed end. Staled at Algiers, the 4(ft day
of Argil, 1211, eorrefponding ivith the 3rd
d°y c f January I'/'97> by
(:■■ s.J HASSAN BASIJAIV, Dey.
j And by the Agent Plenipotentiary of the U- i
n'tted States of America,
('..s.J JOEL B.4RLOW. I
I Joel Barlow, Agent and Conjkl Gen
•_ er °t °J the United States of America„ for the
n City and Kingdom of Algiers, certify and at
tejl that the foregoing is a true copy of the trea
ty, concluded between the said United States,
and the Bey and SubjeEls of Tripoli of Bar- ,
bary, of which the original is to (rkinfmitted •
by me to the Minifier of the said United States, 1
in Lijbon. , j
IN Tefiimony whereof, I sign these pre- |
fents with my hand, and affix thereto 1
j (l. S.J the feci of the Cqnfilatt of the United '
States, at • Igiers, this t\lb day of Ja
f nuary '797.
•, JOEL B RLOIV.
f To all to whom these presents fiiall eoans or
be made'known '
Whereas the under written David Hum
, phreys, hath been duly appointed ComniiJJioner 1
/) Plenipotentiary, ly Letters Patent under 'tht i
1 'fignatiure- of the President and Seal of the U- 1
, tiled States of America, 4ated the-30th of (
March 1795, for negotiating and concluding a a
Treaty of Peace with the Mojl lllufirious, ; t.
The Bajhaw, Lords and Governors of the a
City and Kingdom of Tripoli : Whereas ly j a
a writing under his hand and feat, dated the \ J
10th of Felruary 1796, he did (in conformi- j £
ty to the aifthorify committed me therefor J conjli. I'd
tute and appoint Joel Barlow, and Jcfeph Do- t
naldfon, junior, agents, jointly and separately, 1:
in the business aforefaid ; Whereas the an
nexed 7 reaty cf Peace and I'\ iendjhip, was I
agreed upon, Jigned and sealed at Tripoli of
| Barbary on the 4th of November 1796, iti vir
tue of the powers aforefaid, and guarantied by 0
the Mofi Potent Dey and Regency of Algiers J ' t
And Whereas the fame was certified at- Al- \ t
giers on the 3 rd day of January 1797, with \ n
the signature and seal of Hajfdn Bajbaw, I fl
Dey, and of Joel Barlow, one of the agents (3
aforefaid, in the absence of the other. t!
m Now Know Te, That I David Hum- r
phreys, Commijfioner Plenipotentiary aforefaid, d
do approve and conclude the said Treaty, and I
every Article and Clause therein contained, re
ferring the fame neverthelefsfor the final ratifi
cation of the President of the United States of
America, by and with the advice and consent
of the Senate of the said United States. In
Tefiimony whereof, I have signed the fame' c
with ny Name and Seal, a: the City of i.if- 4
ton, this 10th of February 9 1797. ei
(1.5.) DAVID HUMPHREYS." g
I Now BE IT known,thatl John Adams, c:
' President of the United States of America, d
having seen and considered the said Treaty t!
do, by-and with the advice and consent of j p
the Senate, accept,, ratify, and confirm the oi
fame, and every Clause and Article thereof, ft
And to thd end that the said Treaty may fe
be observed and performed with good faith re
on the part of the United States, I have F
ordered the prcmifes to be made public ; g;
and I do hereby enjoin and require all per- oi
sons bearing Office, Civil or Military, within Ik
the United States, and all others citizens or, jk
, inhabitants thereof, faithfully to observe and aj
fulfil the said Treaty and every Clause and 1 th
Article thereof. ti<
In testimony whereof, I have cau- A
the Seal of the United States of ra
America to be affixed to these Pre- fe.
fents, and signed the fame with my wl
(1.5.) hand. Done at the City of Phila- w<
delphia, the Tenth day cf June, tic
one Thousand seven Hundred ans fe;
Ninety-seven, and of the Indtpen-. th
dence ofthe United States of Ame- fc
rica, the Twenty-firft. k;
JOHN ADAMS. an
By the President. fai
1 TIMOTHY PICKERING. ha
Secretary of State. "
Extrafl of a letter from Boston, Jene 10. r.
Sk
.Accounts.hereare, that thi Directory,
of France have advised to a Proclamati
on of War against the Un'ltld States,
which was opposed by the Council of i .. ..
Five Hundred.—-This Nevvs coir.cs'by ai T,
letter from Mr. , formxlv a \
Merchant of this town.
CONVERSATIONS.
What the devil are we called here to do? To
put the United Spates in a of defjßce» and
give efficacy to ncgociatign by measures which may Si
convince foreign nations that we pjefer our own VV
ccuntry to all others. What, put the United States
in a state of defence ! very prerty truly, de£end a
ourielves againlt cur belt- friends. Ne, no x I'd
rather lee Buwap+p tc amoi)g us. and then we {
teach the Yankees, so dar.ee to a different tune. *
Is it your opicien, then, that we ought <k teful
ia th; tfaxJvSr n hieb France has made and all others -
ivhich Jhemay yJ lavs in referee to make? I anfwvcr
as we c<u nothing by sigh.ing In iMj uapie
of common sense why Ihould we go to theex]>enfe
oi lortifications and ships ancl fuch-trafn. I hold Gai
it for a Ynaxim the lefo we ihew- a difpofitioii
to defend oVrfelvc? the more France will* he j:nt
and itiagwanimou-j toward- us. In a u-ord, I'm for
burning ovr frigates, dtjbarding our amy dvtf 'cmoVjhirrg Q
,ull fortifications whatever as the chu:j>ep, policy cs ->
iveli Os the Ltji fyf.eni of defer.c* f r .'*<• United States.
Put will not tKit'd.eatf dtje>.ci of the States ar
shew to France, that Ihe inay do v-i h the Unired
Stat« 9 jujl as Jbe pteafosl u wA wh t then? Will
not the Unitedirtr.tcs i c better,
will i: not be better that half a dozen p;rfciLj that j
I collid name, should gtq-er* unifier. France t than the '• Sci
Umtvd w , : r ~ ftoilltt tc c"el /"• d.ta..,! t.i s . (
■C£ ,**> ■ I his ■* to ciczt a point that it admits of. rn
doubt si,J lin only furprifeil, thatfranee raovr
;v, i<r i ■"! as ft* is of the cftc
;■ / v.'uch.-er ir.cadi mean to fjrfuc in the pre
°J lent . 1
-i r . t f al )'.r°i ! - woat.i net declare tot Franrs
, j,j •''•h'lik it uecWTary t,o land a low troop? in
fj , St ? tes tRe more effectually to eom; ieta
■ uv'u huaiihatj«jt. '/hat is a nice q'ueftion. How
:evcr words do net -make trrafon. Loot about
you \. ho do you fee advocating meafOres which
11.11,'ht lie ufaf again t France in filoitld an
neal upon eu cojft or in our "country > Frinatss-*.
> " t,u>m Ftrtiftatimu-^things of no life—fi'ki
.or money—traps to catch (cidwrs— cheeks to j r;>
V ,' f < ls * additional artillery ccrpi / horrid blaf*
. ph,e*iy , amy / that would look lika
y. a torcc and might be use j.npoa an emsreencr—
Down with it—i : (hews tco much spirit—it miv&t
bc tfcroy/p in o the fottiScations-no cUds-away
v.ith it, hoot it, liifsit, aarilii it.
Gently gently, good fir. I a(k you whether if.
J sn ft tlle . d "*y of a nation having cvpofed ports and
harho. sto have them fortifitJ and ifadti/ havin"
T. 1 an extemive commerce, t > h Hy ..
havicg'territory coming in coma wi.ii
I warlike nations to luve it frUclM ky fi :t! and ga,-
I >|/<® Can, I lay, a .government djfpenfe with
lucft duties Without coinnjjring a f:lodeft? Stuff
' e —fine wordj—nonfeufe. What, for
* army, a mountain
S. , ! am . "SWft th.'.m -all in every poflibia
lhap= and form. • 1 mean that tlx country stand*
m ro nee;, of an fuchan eitpegfive apyaratusfor its
- iaterjee mafmuch as France'will take the United
/, States under her wing as soon as she has plucked ih;
, andcutthe claws,,'of'tße'Britiih lion. Tlieu
my lids will"-hi the halcyon days of the Uoitci
State: : 1 her; those who are t;;» will he down, asd
thole who are down will be up—Then w t . ft-,)!
' hivt " b <«y» "Wl'ty." feasor milk and Alios of
/ amoer." '
iiy this day's Mai}.
NEW-YORK," June 15.
On Tuefdajr. the 13 th inft. r.t one o'clock,
P. M. tiic ioundation stone of the building
■ intended for accommodation of the U. s!
. Branch Bank, in Wall-street, was laid by
r Cornelius Ray, Esq. Prefidentof the fame,
' attended by the Direftors, Caihier and o
j ther Gentlemen of refpe&ibility, in compli
• ance with the invitations of Mefltt. Moore
'j and Robinson, The master buildefs. The
• | stone was Ornamented with a pertinent in
. fcription, and the Prelident and Diredors
. deposited a very liberal fuitt of money for
the use 01 the workmen engaged for the
building.
Joseph Yzuardy, Esquire. .
Pro Consul General of the United States of
America, in Cadiz, See.
It is hereby made known, in the name
of the Government of the United States,
j that it is mete and is necelfary for the bet
ter security of Commerce, that all vessels
now in the bay, cleared by this consulate,
should suspend their failing until further or
ders; and, whatever, captain tranfgrefles
this notice is to be accountable forall & eve
ry confluence which may result from his
disobedience, either against any particular
American citizen or the nation at'large.
Cadiz, 14th April, {97.
TRANSLATED FOR TrfE
MINERVA.
Cape Francois, May 23, 1797.
An English fquardron under gen. Aber
crombie, arrived before Porto Rico, with
40 or 50 transports, and had actually effect
ed a debarkation, relying much on the
good understanding already prepared for the
j expedition, fwleed, the foment the fquar
j dron made its appearance, the cannon in
the Fort were all spiked. Some French peo
j pie immediately applied to the governor, to
! offer their ferv-ces with zeal. The gov. so
: ftantly ordered othes cannon from the Ar
j fenal to replace thofc- which treachery had
| rendered ufclefs. He permitted about icoo
j Frenchmen from the privateers, to join the
| garrison; He confided to them the'defense
j of the one of the sorts—Pleased with Iris
■ honorable tefumony, they hastened to their '
; ])oft, and no foor.er had the English fleet
| approached whithin half cannon shot,' than
! they displayed, on a small redoubt, the na
tional flag. We are told" on feeing it, Gen,
Abercrombie was texed, and fivotf; in a
n g e >—'"Wherever we go, we find this in
; iernal nation-"—The garrison of the forts,
who had well calculated that the English
would advance with confidence, in expecta
tion, of being well received by their friends
seized tlie favourable moment for firing on
them—which was "seconded by the °land
1 ret".. I hey made about 1000 pnfoners,
killed 4 or 500, funk one veffeland a frigate
and compelled a third to run aftiorc It is
said that nine men, accused of treason,
have been hung. -
U O/iT cf tHILADELI'HIA.
Aaaivcn. days.
K.i.j: Ka'ly, Cotter, St.Kitts ji
Sloop Miranda,'Skella, ' Jacmel 10
CLEARED.
S!pd '.Vo'nrfron P ims. h'/Hlgt .n■ T-T.<i;*cHavrc
Uftl.'e, — j•buodetptna ;uhe 10/0, 1 7y7
LETTERS for the British Packet Car
. eret, will be received at this Office until"
Tuesday the 20th inft. at 12 o'clock, noon.
N. ii. Inland postage must belaid to
New York.
Lailson's Circus,
The Public are refpeflfully informed that
The Performances at the NEVi' CIRCUS
SATURDAY EVENING, June 17th,
Will begin by a Giand Parade o{ Eqneftrian
Pertormers of both sexes, apd
A grand display of Horsemanship,
hy) Meifrs. l.anjley, Herman, C de,
ificholas Ccr-e M Donald. tailfon.
Wilh other entertainments, which will be ex
prefltd in the bills of thp-d. y.
Bush Hi J{.
THE Public are refptfifully informed, that the
Gardens wifl open
ON FMDAY EVENING, June 16,
andiaundav. ihe 17th..with a
CON-CERT '
Oj 'focal Iff Injfrumentai Mi/sic,
Ahcr il c manner of the Public Gardenj. toi.aon,
Paris, YaaxhaJlj'&c. &c.
VOCAL PERFORMfRS. \
Nf ff.s Dailcy, Ken. Daricy. Jan. Eatej, and
IWifs
IRSTUMF NT AC.
M'iF-s. HoprficM, Wolh . Hott imnn, P.rpoke,
Sci.itky, Pet«, Ozmbloth, Ivlarel, DeGlar*. icc.
OrgT-it. isir. 11. Carr.Imported in the jhip Figoit,^
And for sale by John Morton, No. u6, South Ai
Front-ftreeti
Hyson f]
Hyson Skin (.TEAS
Yoimj Hyion i J
Imperial J 1 N
3'" ; o,f Lu
This Day is fuDhihed, with
BY Mtfl. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the and
o'lhei Book fellers, com
rice One Dollar and twenty-five cents, ther
Elegant } printed on IVove paper, and Hot
Prtjfed, & r.
By John Thoropfon, 3 00
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF na
The C.onftitutions Zi
Of the several States with other, and with too
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables, 1
the prominent features of eaeh Cqnftitution, and cun
classing together their mast important provitions, the
under the several heads of administration; with
JJoWs and Observations.
' By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States.
Dedicated to the People of the United States. I
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
February 6 m
JAMES DA.VKNPOR.T ~
' O Efpefifully inf*ms the Citizens of the United p>(
I\States that he will malce Machines for Spinn ch
ing'Kemp, Flax, Tow, Cotton, Wool, manufac- flo
taring Twines, and weaving, by water, on the go
moilttafoiiabk Terms. th
A, Manufa&oi y on this principle, he flatters m
himfclf will meet with very general patronage, as ; n ,
the Machines will be made and delivered, complete- ac
ly furnifhed, per Spindle or Piece ; nor will any
c liargebemadefcr his Patent Rights,but Liberty will
be given to the Purchaser to use them ; the great
inconvenience of employing V, orkracn in the erec
tion of them will be avoided,and the person wilhing ..
to extend them will be able exailly to calculate the A
expenee. He engages tofet them to work, and
alio inftrua or caule to be indrafted, any person h
or persons, in any part of the Union, who may
purchase these Machines, in their principles and
method of ereflion, luch purchal'ers paying travel
ing txpecces.
For terms, application maybe made at No. 74,
Market Street, Philadelphia.
%• It is requeHed that all letters may be peftpaid.
June 10 *6t.
THE FOLLOWING VALUABLE
Tradts of Land,
TN the county of- G'ynn and state of Georgia,.
i will be fold by public sale, at eight o'clock f,
on the evening of fuefdaythe 17th day of June tl
next, at the Merchants Cnflee-Hotife in this ci- n
ty, unless previously disposed of by private sale. v
ift. 7000 acres on St. Simons Sound at the d
confluence of Frederica and Turtle l ivers, ad- ai
joining the common) of the town of Brunfwick, C
originally granted to John Howell, and withi* f'
6 miles of the Atlantic ocean. 11
id. 15,000 acres on the head waters of a e
branch of the great Sattilla, originally granted Vl
to Ferdinand O'Neal. _
3d. 50,000 acres cn the waters of the little
Satilia Tiver, 2nd of Bufialoe and Alexanders
Creeks ; the great Sati'la road passes through
:.hefe lands, which tore originally granted to
Ferdinand O'Neal.
4th. 50,000 acres on the great Satilia river,
wlych are also interfered by a tranch of the e
little Saplla, and were originally granted tp I
Thomas Spalding. n
It appears by authentic certificates £ from si
Thomas Davis, furveycr, and from Major Ci
Hopkins now residing in Philadelphia, that the v
body of these lands are not thirty miles from ,
the ocean, and principally within tide water ; 11
that the Alatamaha is navigable for boats and
rafts two hundred miles above, and for large 11
vessels within ten miles of them ; that they are c
chiefly firft rate pine lands, producing timber -
equal in quality to any in the state of Georgia,
pofTeffing the fame advantages of navigation.
The abovementioned certificates, together with
the patents, drafts, andother papers refpeaiiig
the title, which is.complete and unincumbered,
are In the pofleflion of the fnbfcribers and may
be seen by applying to Benjamin R. Morgan, at
No. 41 Mulberry Street. The terms of pay-' '
ment will be one third cash, the remaining two
thirds in good negotiable endors'd notes, paya
ble in three and fix months after the file ; a
conveyance to be made to each purchaser on the
payment of that moiety of the notes received
from him which becomes firft: due.
THOMAS FITZSIMONS,
JEREMIAH PARKER,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN.
Philadelphia, May 31, 1797. eodtf.
FORTE. -
LONGMAN y BRODERIP's
ROYAL patent Piano Forte with a green
board, an excellent toned instrument. For
file at Mr. Falters, No. 56, S. Fourth Street.
June 10. diw.
A Cow Stolen
FROM the owner at the corner of Ninth
and Arch streets. She is a deep red
brindle with some white, about ten years
old and very gentle. The person who se
cretes her had bell turn her out, as, if legal
evidence gan be obtained, he nwy expert a
l| rigorous prcrfecUtion. TWO DOLLARS
reward will be given to any person who will
deliver the Cow, or give such evidence a
gainst the person keeping her, that he may
be convitted of the fart. Apply at
Uo. 218, Arch Street. •
June 9. taw3W '
NOTI
THE fubferifter having sent by the fliip Nancy,
Capt. Perry, the following certificates of the
United States bank stock, to wit :
No. 26,005, to 16,014, inclusive, for three
shares each—and the said vessel having; been cap
tured on her intended voyage to England, which
will most probably occasion the loss of the said
certificates, gives this public notice,
That he (hall apply at the proper offices fer a re
newal of them, and that means have been taken
to prevent any improper transfer.
Henry Philips,
No. 111, South Front-street.
June I. 3aw6w
Now Landing,
At Pratt's tubnrfi
FROM on board the (hip Thomas Chulkley,
Capt. Rafer, from Bourdeaux,
CLARET in caflcs v
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
Red Skins in boxes
For Sale by
Rundlc & Leech.
r q 1 t rt
Far Sale, Lara
AN ELEGANT y.'JD PERT COMMO
DIOUS
Three flory brick Ho life,
And Lot of Ground thereunto belonging, , 1
IN Arch, above Seventh-llreet, being a high, plea
ant situation and go d neighbourhood! rhe laid
House is twenty-fix leet in fiout by 48 feet in depth ■- S
with a piazza twenty leet in depth, and 2 story kucnen as wi
and pantries3l feet in depth, in the piazza there is a jeCt ir
commodious flair cafe with mahogany railing, ?nd Decen
there is also a tack, flair cafe; ldid house is hnilhed cd ne
in a complete and modern llile, wi'.h marble' more
chimney pieces, llucco cornices, mahogany doors, this b
&c. The said lot is 38 1-8 leet in bicsdtb, about r ] l( . p e
300 feet in d' p'h, and has two fronts ; on said lot at f Ll |]
j is a large brick coach hotifp a(id flablc, well ftnilhed,
and pbiftered, a pump of good water in the .yard, ((1 ; f tc
and about the pTcmifes there are many conveuiencits gt „ e
too tedious'to enumerate. <
The above property will be fold clearof all m
cumbranccs, and the terms of payment made easy to
the purchaser. tliis
For farther information apply r o -
JOHN ELLIOTT CRESSON,
No. 144, South Second-flreet. . (cnti<
June 9. f n w2iv _ )i c C a
For Sale, ; w Jk
That well known place, called Fandegrifi's rendi
Ft RR Y, thofl
ON Nefhaminy creek, 18 miles from Pliila- untie
ladelphia, on the New York port road, Geoi
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the Mar
premises are a large two Itrry Ilone house oqcu- and
pied as a tvern, and a good one story stone kit-
chen, a large frame liable with, a good threshing elt^'
floor, and some out buildings—also a well of |
good water, and an excellent ice House. On £
this place is a molt elegant situation for a gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny to its juntflion wiih Delaware, and thence
across to the Jerfty shore. It has the privilege Lhn
of one half the toll received from the bridge. day .
For terms apply to the Subferiber,
MORDECAI LEWIS. j
y?v 14. atawtf. J,
Nathaniel Lewis & Son, x°u<
Have for sale at their pre, No. 70, adjoining cee<
George Latimer & Son, Pine-flreet Wharf, " r ;
AQuanrftyot
Madeira Wines J froi
1 In pipes and half pipes ' a , rr
Madeira Walnuts and Citron, lately imported
in the fchooncr Sincerity, Capt. Copia I S5
Also, A
J5 Puncheons, fecondand third proof, Weft- j 1
India Rum, and a few Pipes of Brandy i wit
They have c'onflantly on hand and for sale, I erv
• "French Burr and Country Mill Slimes ®f various I tcr :
: flies, and a gend d assortment of Bcultiug CUHn of I the
: the bed quality, both American and Foreign ma- 0 f |
- nufadure. The former having proved, fromffe ver
. vcral yfars experience of a number of millers in
1 different parts of the United States at least equal, |
- and in many inflances superior to the European 1 ~
, Cloths, we hope the manufaAurer, Robert Daw I
\ f« n> will meet with liberal encouragement in this I
important and ufeful undertaking. He has obtain- I
, ed a patent and exclusive right of making and I Ft
I vending Boulting Cloths on his improved plan for a Irj
number «f years, and they are fold only by him- | 1 J
, felf in Lan caller, state of Pennsylvania, and bj ITr
' the fubfetibers in Philadelphia. |1
S Tune 14 I cto
1 ' ; —: ; —r I aft<
> An elegant House in Arch-ltreet.
, TO be let and entered on immediately, a large and |
g elegant House at the cornerof Arch and Ninth-ftreci I gio
j, There are two drawing rooms and one dining room If I
—the Urged is 31 feet by s6—and two are so con- I me
netted by folding doors as to make but one. Also, I Tel
1 fiv<? bed rooms, hrTirlr five in tbe garret, well -inilb- I W
r ed for fervani s. There are fhblci and a Coach house, I
e with evety convenience for a family. Enquire at No. j \
1 29, in North Se\emh street, or at No. iiß, Arch- |
i street. I
i Also to be rented for the summer season, a small I pr |
g neat house and garden about 3 t-2 miles from the I w }
city, with (tables and coach house. Enquire as above. L ct
r June 6. - gaw 3 w tin
City of Wafliington.
h SCHEME
f Of the Lottery, No. 11, \ ha
y For the Improvement of the Federal City.
,t A magnificent dwelling-houfe^ao,ooo dollars, 1
3c cash 30,000, ire 50,00s
0 1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,00s 40,00# If"
I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000 1
a 1 ditto 10,000 & cash xo,ooo ao,oeo I
te 1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000 q
:( j 1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000 I (
x cash prize of 10,000 I m
» do. 5,000 each, are ■" 10,000 jth
10 do. 1,000 - • 10,00 c I tii
'»o do. 500 - - I®,ooo In<
00 do. 100 - * 10,000 I
L »oo do. 50 - - 10,000 £
400 do. »5 - J 0,000 1
1,000 do. »® ■ ao,ooo I
15,000 do. 10 * 150,000 I
or *6,739 Prizes.
Blanks- I u
- 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000 1 1;
, N. B. Tofavour thofewho may tike a quan- J
tfl tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be I g
ed
j the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last j jl
trs but on* : I
f e - And approved notes, securing paymcnt in either I
ra j money or prizes, in ten days alter drawing,, will 1
3 be received for any number not less than 30 tick- (
>0 ets - r
This lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
nil the private buildings to be ereiled in the City of f
a- Washington—Two beautiful designs are already ,
av (elected for the entire fronts «n two of the public
' squares; from thefs drawings it Upropofed toeretft (
two contreand 'our corner baildiags. as soon as pof- I
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them, 1
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
'— the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel I
Lottery. A nett deduilion of five per cent. wiU i
be made to defray the necessary expenfes.of print
,CY ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the the fund intended for the National University, to
be creeled withiri the city of Walhington.
lrce The real fecuritiesgivcn for the payment of the
- Prizes, are held by the President and two Direfl
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
said more than half thi. amotint of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
1 re- *§» Tickets may be had ?.t the Bank of Colum
ken bia*; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Oilman. Boston : of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
■eet.
This Day is Publiftied,
And fold by H. y I. Kammerer, jun. No
2a, North Third-Jlreet, also, by Mr. Hen
rt SirErrzEß, No. 85, Race-Jlreet,
j (Price half a Dollar neatly hound)
The Man of real Sensibility;
Or, The HISTORY OF SIR G. ELLISON.
Founded, on Fut7.
(fdT The elegant Ed ilion of the Elements of Moral
ity, ia two vols, illustrated with twenty copper
plates, may also be had as above, price, fall bound
and gik, two dollars and fifty cents.
• H&I. K junrs. have on hand a qoanty of o. i |
2D.d 3 L \Vi Barnr- .
LancaHer> tiarrijburgh % Cartijle, i Ge
Sbippenjbur? and Sunbury J Em;
STAG E S. %
THE public are requeued to tike notice, that ov
the partnership whjch has far lome time fab- i.
filled between Mathias Slough of Lancaster,
William Geer, is now diffcivcd : bwt, not a 3 ivl. Qr
Slough iafinaates to the public without just cause ; ant j
as will more fully appear by a letter on the lub- n
je£t from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which is sot now deem- /
cd necessary. Any gentleman who wifiies to be '
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal «f M. Slough's letter, and then can be J*' 1 "
at full liberty to determine whether or not W. tne
Geer is.not perfediy juflifiabie in attaching him- Me»
felf to any other person in the pfofecution of the uct
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf- heel
urg", br any other place. new
Now from the liberil and generous support the the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort m on t
this bufmefs, William Ge t r, in conjunction with he)
Meflrs. Reily, Weed and Winner, is determined mai
to prosecute and carry .itvjn, with every caie, at- con
icntion andiifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub- _ t
lie can possibly exert. 179
The above company, who are amply provided j o i
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to ,^
render the paff.ige Safe and comnvorilous, inform lft
thofa wno wifb to patronize and encourage the
* undertaking, that they ran take their feats at jj m
, George Weed's, .the sign of the White Herfe,
; Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday .
. and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harriiburg,
. Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitnerto 1
, established.
r For the further accommodation ot the public,
a Stage will dart every Wednesday from the house
' of Samuel Elder, in Harriftmrg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from and arrive «t Karrifburg
: every Saturday, so that pafTeSgjfts dcllined for V
e Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed oe Mon-
diy9 ' WILLIAM GEER. £
Lancaster, Jan. 27, 1;97-
N. B. This Line ot Stages starts from the '»
house of William Ferr«, in Lancaster, on every trc
■> Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro- ltr
rr ceeding to the westward; and from the house of ltr
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harnfburg every Wednef- ho
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa- in;
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns ro
from thence on every Thursday : performing the ot
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadel- tw
j phia. mwf - ch
'sTICKNHY's PATENT ARCH BRIDGE. ov
ANY person desirous of information refpeil- of
ing this new conltru<Stion, may obtain it ar
without delay by application pr. letter, or oth- y«
5, erwife, to Jobn Stickney, merchant of Worcef- lo
ls ter, (MafTachufetU) who Will m:ke known G
'' the many advantages arising from this manner £
l " of building, and upon application he will either ci
p~ vend a patent right, or attend personally to su
perintend the building of any bridge required. _
" A New Work.
" PROPOSALS
id For printing and publiftiingj by fubfeription, The
* History of Pennsylvania, n
Y T N North-America, from the original ioftitution and ™
J. fettlcment of that province, under the firtt propri
etor and governor, Willi am Penn, in iCBi, till J
"" after the year 174* ; with '
AN INTRODUCTION, ?
Refpefiing the Life»of . PENN, j"'
'd Prior to thegiant of that Prorince, and the reh- h
* eious Society of the people called Quakeri; with the ji
m FIRST RISE of the NEIGH BORING COLONIES, e
n " mere particularly of WEST-NEW-JERSEY, and the n
o, Sculemeotof the DUTCH and SWEDES 011 DELA- f
WARE.
fe, To which is added,
o- A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO-
It- VINCE. j
And of the general state, io which it flourilhed,
a " principally between the years 1760 and 1770. The r
he whole including a variety of things, ufeful and in
,e< teiefling to be known, refpefting lhatcountry inearly
time, &c. With an appendix. v
Written principally between the years 17 7 6 and 1780,
By Robrrt Proud.
" Tukhrum ejl btntjaccri reitmblica, ttiam leneiiccre
haud ablwdum ell. vel pace vel tlllo clarura Jitri licet.''
i?l.Catalin.
rs,
oe " Sed cum pltriqiii arkitrentur rrs biHicas majorcs eje
i 0» quamurbanas, m:vucndactl hxcopinio."
100 Cic. Off.
(Entered accaodingto lam.)
" WILLIAM PENN, the great Icgiftator of the
100 Quakers, (in Pennfylvnia) had the success of aeon
>o° queior, in eflahlilhing and defending Irs colony, a
-100 mong favagt tribes, without ever drawing the sword ;
>OO the goodness of the moll benevolent rulers, in trea
>oc ting his fubjefls as his own children ; and thq tender-
JOO nefsof an universal father, who opened his arms to
)00 all mankind without diflinflionot fe£l or party. In
)of) his Republic it w»s not his religious creed, but per
sonal merit, that 1 (.titled every member of society to
50 the protection an*! emolumantof the State*"
100 . E/Tay on Toleration, by Arthur O'Letry.
300
CONDITIONS.
1. This work will be printed in two oflavo vol
umes, neatly bound and lettered, both in Iheep and
calf, for the choice of the fubferibers; on paper fimi
-000 lartethatof the conditions, aj ptiilijhed in the Subjciip-
tion papers.
Lan- 11. The head of William Penn, handsomely en
-Ibe graved, will be prefixed to ihe firfl, and a map or
AST Iketch of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the
second volume.
r IH« The price to fubferibers will be four dollars
11 and an half in (herp, ind five dollars in calf J—one
dollar to be paid at the time of fubferibing, two dol
lC 'lais on the delivery of the fiilV volume, and tbe re
mainder on the delivery of the second.
n °* IV. When one thousand copies ate fubferibed
y for, the. work will be DUt to press and fiuilhed with
:ady all convenient expedition,
iblic Subfcriptior.s will be received by Zachaiiah Poul
ireil son, jun. Printer, No. 80, Chefuut-ftieet, and at the
pof- Philadelphia Library io Fifth-ftreet ; bv Isaac Col
lem, lins Printer, and Joseph James. Merchant, New
s, in York; by John P. Pleafamsand George W. Field,
lotel Merchants. Baltimore! and by other persons both
will in town and country.
rinr- ' Feb»-uarviß. tu&f
"°o Important Public Document.
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
re^t- And for Sale
-d at At the Officeof the Editor ofthe Gazetie of the
United States,
No iig Chefnut-Srrect,
lam * [price q-nb collar and fiftt Cents]
eter A FEW COPIES OF THE
" ,d ; Receipts and Expenditures
wf OF THE UNITED STATES,
Fot the Year 1795,
Being the Latest Period to which ail account
No can be made up.
'len February 12.
Ipubuc notice
IS hereby given to those persons, holding notes
ofthe fubferibrr, that he will renew the
fame, payable in fix years, with legal interest
, from the date hereof; and that notes will be
given as above to. all, who may have open ac
counts legally authenticated.
ound ' TIMOTHY MOUNTFORD.
0 ,, j No. 294, S. Secoijd Street.
I Philadelphia, June to, *797* 3t-
i Georgetown BriGge Company. 1
Extraa of an a& pasTed by the Leg'.flatuie of To t
the state 6f Maryland on the 19th December,
j791, entitled, "An aft for creating a bridge
over Potowmac river. * a
'• And be it emitted, that the said direiflors of ■
any two of tliern shall and may require any funi th& f
or lams of money in equal proportion from each lyin£
and every jfroprietor, as may front time to time com
be neceffcry for carrying on the building of said pike
1 bridge ; a'nd after giving three months public theft
] notice, it shall anJ may be lawful for the direst- fron
f tors to lue for and recover in the name of the ol !
company such unpaid requisition, with all costs tanc
[ and charges incidental thereto, and legal interest mor
thereon from the time the fame should have rive
been paid: And the negleft or refufal to pay any be I
e such requisition after public notice iliall have tnre
- been given at lealt for three mouths in all the Hon
newfpiipers heiein before enumerated, shall have Jom
e the effeft to forfeit all preceding payments made butl
n on the fhartf or shares so nejjlefled or refufed to
b be paid M «he use and benefit of the company.' A
d mation of i'och of the stockholders as have not [ani
- complied with the requisitions heretofore made
>- —tlieyare as follow: On t-he xft November,
%o dollars, on the loth May, 4° thii
dollars; an the lothjuly, 1796, 40 dollars ; on
0 the ift September, 1796, 40 dollars, and on the
m ift November, dollars. Caution is
le - now given that after the expiration of the time crc ,
at limited for the cohtinUancc of this advertise- anc
e ' ment (three months) the law will be carried ™
into rigid and complete effect against all delin
f' quents. 1 ;
By order of the Direftofs,
; C) WALTER SMITH, Treasurer.
.fe Georgetown, May I, 1797. law.^m
n * TO B t SOLD, » pai
iy ' A valuable three (lory Brick Hoofe ; be
QITUATE in alley, next to the bank of
, n . O pennsylvania, thelot on which it'ftands, to
gether with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex- a
tends to Gcforth-ftreer. The house is about 50 £
feet in front on Lodge Alley, and about 42 feet j m
hj in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet a g
Ty front on Lodge alley, and 42 feet on Goforth- coi
ro- street, being a street which leads from Chefnut- thi
of street and Carter's-lW into Dock-street at the
ef- horse market. The house confirms of ten lodg
'a- ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dining
rns rooms, ene of them forty feet in length, the dc
the other about thirty-four feet, each containing
lei- two fire places, two parlours and a large kit
chen, with extensive cellars under, and garrets
L. over the whole, a privilege of a vacant lot In
£i- ef ground to the eastward between this house
it and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
th- yard, a handsome piaiza fronting the vacant
ef- lot, and a frame liable and dwelling house on /
ivn Goforth-ftreet. The premises now rent for
ier jC-3'15 per annum. To be fold clear of all in
her cumbrances.
fu- For terms apply to "John Clement Stoiker.
ed. April 10 3 awt f
' I : 1 r, - - 11
- Mujical Instrument Manufactory, ti
No. 167, Arch-Street.
he T T ARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable grand,
Xx fid:-board, pier table and square piano forte
a, maker from London, returns thanks to his friends J
and and the public, far their liberal encouragement,
_ r ;. and hopes that by his aiftduity and attention to ev
'till "y branch of his business, to merit a continuance 1
of their favors. Piano fortes made on the newel!
and mod approved plans, with pedals, patent, -
swell, and French harp flop, which he Battels
■eli- himfelf will ue found on trial by unprejudiced -
the judges, to be equal if not superior to any import-. ''
ES, ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inftru
the m< nt pure/tared of him, if uot approved of in 7
LA- twelve months, he will exchange.
_ N. B. All kinds of Musical inflruments made , *
tuned, and repaired with the greatefl accuracy c
he j dispatch, and on the molt reasonable terms, so a
ready money only. 1
in-
:arly Second hand Piano Fortes taken in exchange. ,
May le. " u
?80 ' COT T 0 N.
A few bales just arrived, for sale by
l icere JOHN CLARK, <
No. 55 North Water Street.
Jane io- eott - ;
Received by the Indoitan,
' 'S' From Madras, . ,
(j- \ SMALL invoice consisting ofthe following ,
l\ Coast Goods, viz.
the Blue Cloths
con- Long Cloths, 14 punjums
y, a- Do. do. si. Ie
ord ; Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and
'' ca " Book Muslins
■der- WILLING Iff FRANCIS.
" S J° March ti. 3 aw t
ty"o Venereal Complaints,
PUNCTUALLY attended to in every stage of
that disease, without the use of mercury or
rellraint of diet, in any cafe recent and fimplc. 011
application at No. 113, Chefnut-ftreet, pppofite
" the United States bank, or at No. 170, South Wa
• ter-ftreet, between Spruce and Pine-ftaeets, where
! ,n "- Ue has opened an office for the better accommoda
tion of his patients.
v en _ But in Lues Venerea confirmed, Do£tor Morgan
ip or pledges himfelf, that no system of cure (however
to the ipecious) can be efFcdual without mercury, and
that all the known rules of pradice for thele two
ollars centuries pad, and united experience affirms, that
—one any substitute for it is but nugatory, and any mode
> dol- 0 f pradice to the contrary must be futile and de
ie re " ceptious.
Nevertheless, he undertakes, liowever compli
:ribed cate d the cafe, to effeit a cure without inconifc
w't'l nience or injury to the conftitutiou, and
in time net generally experienced or expe&ed.
Poul- jj Regular attendance at the office in Water
atrth,e ftrett, from the hour of nine o'clock in the morn-
N ing until one, and from three o'clock in the even
' ing until seven; but any c her time at his dwelling
! both' house, in Chefnut-ftreet.
■ May 16. dtf
u&f Just Arrived,
Jt In the schooner Dove, Captain Paul, from St
Thomas, and for sale by the fubferiber.
Muscovado Sugar in hhds- tierces and barrels.
'' St. Croix Rum in hhds.
And Laguira hides. «
ofthe ALSO ON HAND,.
Imperial, Hyson, and Sherry and Malaga
Hyson Skin Teas. 'Wines.
S J Yellow Nankeens. Holland Gin in pipes.
! Canton CUth. Do. Clieefe.
RES ! Luteltrings. Do. Glass ware.
I Silk Hankerchiefs. China Ware.
! Sewing Silk. Window Blinds,
ccount [ Cotton in bales. Rhet-ibarb.
Peruvian Bark. Quicksilver, &c.
5. JOSEPH SIMS.
May qqd. • -d'#-
;notes The Subscriber,
w the Determined to retire from business, invites all
ntereft who have anv note, bill, bond or acceptance
vill be of his, now due, to call for payment ; and those
en ac- who with to anticipate may receive the money
at a reasonable difcoufct.
JAMES SWAN,
t. May 22. <l"v
3t. 1 Dojchefttr, nearßoCtoa, 16th May 1797.
To be fold at Public Vendue,
o the highest bidder, at the hoi.il- of Mr/
William Evans, the lign of thp Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the atth
tUy of O&ober next, at II o'clock, A. 51.
About seven thousand acres ot land,
;S property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
•in» between Reifter's-town and Weft;ninfter>
jmtnonly called Little Wihchefter, (the turn
ike road runs through a cenfiderable part ot
ieie lands) the traft begins about 17 mil«
■cm Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
f said Ueiller'i-town, and extends to the dif
tnce of about twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and li® on the main falls ot Pataphco^
Iver, froto three to'four miles thereon. Will
e fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to
hree hundred acre. There is a large propor
ion of meadow and w6od land on each trail,
onie of them highly improved, with excellent
luildings aris fine gr. fs.
ALSO,
A trad of seven hundred acres of
and, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
Bladenlhurg, efleemed very good for Grass;
Richard Ppnfonby.of Bladenfburgh, will fhev/
:his land to any person inclined to purchase."
ALSO,
A trad of kmd of about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within abotft two itiuei
and a half ot the President's houfein the Fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpeiil, from which may be fcen the'
city of Waftiingtcn, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and' a part of Georgetown, and many miles'
down the Potomac.river. Mr. Richard Por,foil
by, of Bladen IT)'irg, will also (hew this land.
' A liberal credit will be given for the gfeateft
part of the purchase money, ihe terms will
be made known on the day of Tale.
May 8
Notice.
A LL persons indebted, to the F.fta'e of Sarah
il. Marshall, deceased, are requested to make
immediate payment, and those that have demands
again it said eilate, are desired to bring in their ac
counts properly attested for ftttlement, to either of
the fuhfcribcrs. Christopher Marshall, Jr.
Caspar W. Ha(nes,
AB*AHAM M. GARRIGHEf,
■Administrators to the littatc of Sarah Marlhall,
deceased. June 3 aaw3w
New Hat and Hosiery Store.
ynft Imported,
In the foips William Penh and Star, from London y and
riQiv opening by
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
AT his new Hat and Hosiery Store, No. 134,
Market ftreet —
An elegant aflortment ot silk, cotton and thread
Stocking.!
Silk, cotton and thread Gloves
Pantaloons, kc. &c.
Likewite, ahanjfome affortrrjent of men's, wo
men's, and children's falhionable Hats, luitablcfor
the Season.
A considerable quantity of low and mi 'die priced
Hats aflorted in cases, intended for country stores.
May aj. taw
Samuel & Miers Fisher,
No. 27, Dock-street,
Have juji received fcr AltgaU, Babcock, from
Bedfast,
IRISH Cambricks, in boxes of 40 pieces
and So patches, each sorted up to 9/
sterling per yard.
They have also received
7-8 & 4-4 Irish Linens well aflorted
Dowlas and Sheetings,
which will be fold for ready money 1 , or ftiort
credit, on moderate terms ; together with
a general assortment of Spring Goods as
usual.—Also,
Hunter's Pipes in boxes
An aflortment of Queens' Ware in crates
An aflortment of GTafs Ware in caiks and
crates
T. Crowley, Milfington, Steel
Cargo & London particular Teneriffe Wir.es
Lilbon Wine of excellent quality
Superior Sherry Wines
Patent Sheathing paper.
A few small bales fine Cloths neatly aflort
ed, and two bales aflorted Flannels, to be
fold per package.
June 9. 3taw 6w
William Blackburn,
LOTTERT and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 foutli Second-flreet.
TICKETS in tiie Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commenced drawing the 29th May, POR
S ALE. The price of tickets will, rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac
count cf the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
r four thousand dollars each, on the last day ot
" drawing.
e Check Books kept for examination and register
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Waihington, N"o.
e 1, and Paterfon Lotteries
l" A lfo, tickets for sale in che Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
n dravying i» the course of. the summer.
j The bufißefs of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, See- &c. tranfailed with the
0 utmofl a;tenti»n.
Jnne 2 tu&f
Chocolate and Mustard
i- Manufactured as usual,
f- Ginger and Pepper ground
id Shefied or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
r* London Porter
Taunton and Bwiton Ale
v Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
'8 or by the pipe, quarter-ea<k or gallon —iu.tabic
for exportation or home consumption
For Sale by
"John Hazvorth.
it No. 98 south FrOnt street.
May 18 ta4W
s. '
for Sale,
At the. Office ot the Gaaette of the United
States, No. 119, Chel'out-ftreet*,
The lafl Report of the lata Secretary
of the Treasury; being a brief history cf the
state of financial concerns of the United States.
The Proceedings of the Executive
of the United States refpefling the weflcrn in
furre<slkm : Containing many faSs and cir
cumilances no where else to be found, jo
cents.
The Letter of Mr. Pickering to
our minister in France. 371-5 cents.'
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States for the yesr
1795.
xe A few copies of the volume for 1794 may be
e y had to complete i'etts.
D'lvernois' account of the Revo
lution in Geneva, 12 1-2 cents.
April 3.