£tf I- cf tijt anb Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.
luArisf./>. 1562 j
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For d r r goo &a.
(' Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. 56,
>~r j j south Pronl-ffreet,
. .on Afternoon—Footman & Co. No; 65
C. South Front-street.
/"Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
~ J Auilion-, No. 73 fout'li l 7 vor.t-ftrcet.
\ Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C. .18.3 Kigh-ftreet.
rrr,j„ru* J A term,on—Peter 3enfon, No. 74
*' ' ? south Third-ftr-et.
C Forenoon—Edward Fox.
..Wji.ay | Afternoon —John Connelly,
.p.. '/ Forenoon—William Shannon*
n y j Afternoon —John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
Kr HAMBURGH,
r | ""HE Copper Bottomed Ship
v iVPvl~ A FAVORITE, John
Thompson, Mister, now at
Bright's wharf, and willhe rea
' to>akc in on Monday next,
~ part of her cargob.'og engaged
and reidy to go on board. . The Ihip is lo well
known, that it is needlcfs to defer",be her. She
is now in compleat order. For Freight or Pas
sage, plcafe to apply at Mr. Jeremiah Warder's
Compting House, No. lj, North Third street,
or to the Matter on bard.
August jo.
\For SALE,
On board the said Ship, Svtedilli I;on, alTorte !
Hollow and Window Glass, Demvjohns, Wrap
ping Paper for Sugar Refiners, Rugs of i & 2
Quality. Please to apply as above.
wi'Jtra4W
White Havanna Sugar.
1461 boxes "> of very fupcrjor quality now
75 lihds. J iDg from the Ihip Ham\urgh Packet,
ar""WTrtmJl"Strx:*i wlucrP—and lor ky
Philip "Nicklin & Co.
N. B.
THE SUIP
Hamburg Packet, '
Silas Swain, Master,
Ss&Sdzi&SelFor Sale, or Charter.
An?. 24. eot f
~ COMMISSIONERS' SALES,
nPHL Commiflioners of the counties of Ly-
X coming and Northumberland, have given
notice that they intend to proceed to the sale of
lands, for the arrearage of taxes, on the 7th of
September next.
igr The different printers in tbi» city will
render an eflential service to a great number of
individuals by publilbing this notice.
Aug. jB.
"" FOR SALE,
BRETAGNES In cases
German Checks in do.
Cambrick
Plattillas
Oznabrigs
Oo!d and silver Watches
Window Glass 10 by 8
GUf» Tumblers in cases
Linfecd Oil in calks See.
George Peunochy
103, H'tgh-Strift.
Joly 5- 3 - v
NOTICE.
IF Theby O'Hara, who some years fincekept
School at the Nine Bridge*, Queen'. County, Eaf
teru Shore, Maryland, be living, he is hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. Amhrofe
Marlbal, r«r Warwick, Cecil County, Eastern
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will receive iu
terefting infermaciofa.
Aurnjl 4. _ mw&f ;w
THE SUBSCRIBER Sp
ASSIGNEES OF .JAMES GREEN LEAF,
HERKIIY give notice, thatthev have H.ifpeled
of the property assigned to them for the securing
the payment of the note«, acceptances, and en
dorfeiiients given by Edward Fox, for the use
of the said James Greenleaf; and the holders of
such notes, acceptances, and endori'ements, are
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers Will lVttle
with them for the amount at their refpedkive
claims, btth principal and interest, at
any time before tRe 2cth day of OAober next;
after which dav, the holders nut applying, will
be excluded, agreeibly to the terras of align
ment.
Applications to be made at fn» h-eaft corner
of Dock and Second streets (t'ne Dock-street
fide), between the hoars of eleven and one o'
•lock every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tho. IV. Francis,
John Miller, J tin.
John Afhley,
Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, Augttft 18, 1797. d
The Inhabitants of the Diftridt
of Southwark,
A RE informed that a Coachce is provided, to be
JTL- kept a: the Constables' office, the north east
earner of Front and Almond streets, where the
friends of rhofe sick persons who desire to be re
moved to the City Holpital, are requested to make
application—Alio, a liearfc will be kept in readi
ness for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
N. E.— The poor, who wilh to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may be furnifhed with orders
by applying as abnve. Auv. 39
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Amsterdam and Hamburg, Jand for sale by
B. y J. Bohlen,
A large ajforlment of fine French Cambrics,
Piatillas KuffiaindDutch sailcloth
Hrittannias .Writing, poll, and print-
Rouanes ing paper
Brown Hnlland Dutch calf Hems
Checks and itripes, Prime madder
Ticlclenburgs Shell'd Bai ley
Ornabur-s Looking g'-affes
White (hcetings Ilollow glafi, ware
Eiaper 'Slates
Brown rolb Coffee mills
Umbrellas Brass kettles
Hair ribl)bns Scythci and straw knives
Bla;k and wliitelaces Tovs assorted in boxes
Btft Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Itiiuptra Wire
July 54. ir.&'.htf
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 11, 1797.
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLI'AM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Cbefnut ftieets,
Price of a Dcllar, , .
Observations on certain Documents
Contained iw V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the yeitr 1796,"
In which the charge or jrEcuui rioN auainlt
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretarv of the Trjasihi, is I'ULLY
REFUTED.
irr.iTrErt ir u:\i 3 ij_£ t.
This p-.ibhvr.rian prefcuti a coniiCc itatemeat
ef the base means prp&iled by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the characters of those
p«rfons who are considered hoftile to their difor-
fch-mex. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Mc-flYs.--
Monroe, Muhlenburgli cndVenab'e, on the fub
jcAof the documents aforefaii, and a series of let
ters from Japies Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the potability of a doubt,
that the canned ion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a dnring confyrracy on the part
of the latter asd-his ad'ociates to extort money.
A discount of one third fror; the retail pfii e
will be made in favor oi wholcfalc'purchafers for
cask. Orders to be addrelfed to Y«»mo.
Aupifl 25.
The Norfolk Mail
'■yifiS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavcrn,
jL at tlia corner of Second ar.d Ar«h Streets, in
PbiWielphia, < vtry Tutfday, Tlurfitty, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the troruing ; arrives at l'o
vcr the firlt day, at S:\owhill the l'econd day, at
Nouhampton Court House tlie third day, and on
the moruing of the fourth day the.pa(Tengers fiud
a fafe and osmfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Xerfolk for Norihampton ftiry,
every TuefJly, Thurflay and Saturday, and the 1
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every !
Monday, Vvednefday and Friday ;'_puts up at Snow
Hill the6rft night, at Dover the id night, aud »r
---ri.Mia i J til»i«;j4tiß in tlu evening of the third
day.
The distance on «hi» rout-, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is Co miles leU than on any stag; route
between thofc places
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is mofc excellentlndeod. The ' proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole tare te any |
patTenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that ht ever travelled ih a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
Anguft 11. dom.eotf.
Philadelphia, 15th July, 17J7.
NOTICE is hereby given, that separate pro
pol'als with sealed covers will be received
at my office until the eleventh day of September
next, to fumilh by contrail the following ar
ticles for the nfe of the Army of tHe United
States in the year 1798.
First Contrail for
8 Sergeants coats 1
2 Muficiaus, do.
10 Sergeants veftt Drajoonj.
116 Privates coats
126 Privates jtefts
- 64 Sergeants coats .
31 Muficiani, do.
9< Sergeants veils
192 Woolen ovtrajls Artillerists
>9l Linen ovtralls !► &
936 Privates eaats Engineers.
936 do. vcfts
1871 Woolen ovwalli
1872 L'ncn do.
144 Sergeants coats
72 Mulicians, do.
216 Sergeants veils
432 Linen overalls
432 Woolen do. ;■ liifarttry»
1893 Privates coats
1892 do. veils
3784 Woolen ovtralls
3784 Linen do.
jil Contrail, far 1288 Sergeants ffiirts
11816 Privates do.
12600 Socks
I 2d Contrail, for 272 pair feather breeches
3d Cent I*l, for 272 pair boots
4600 psirlhoes, No. I
8000 pair do. No. 2
4th Contrail, for 1032 Artillerills ar.d Engi
neers hats
2108 Infantry do.
136 Dragoon caps
The whole ta be delivered at the city of Phila
delphia, via.
One fourth on or before the 13 th day «f F»-
brnary next.
One fourth on or before the 15th day of A
pril next.
The remaining half On or before the i/tk day
of June next.
The articles are to be agreeable to fu<"i» pat
terns as shall be dirt fled by the Secretary for the
Department 0/ War.
Payments,to be inade as fwon as the artiole
shall b# delivered', and palled infpe'nion.
TENCH FRANCIS, Purvey*.
e'lti nhSep.
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chests of .- superior quality—Alio,
100 do. of Hyion,
Imported in the H'oodrcpSims, an(l for sale by
the lisbferibers, corner of Second and Pine
ltrect.,
C. Hnight.
June 21. eotl
> Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for l'ale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-street,
Hyson }
Hyson Skin C T £AS
Toting Hyion (
, Imperial J
t A eo'f
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufaflured as usual,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Peatl Bai ley
Bhiljidelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter i
Taunton and Buiton Ale
Red Port and other Wines, elthe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-calk or gailon—fuitable
for expertation or home < oiifumpticm—
For Sale by
John Haivortb
No. 9" south 'tree:
By John Fenno, N°* 119 Che [nut Street:
Higgiiis' Specific
Foa TUB
PREVENTION AMD CURE OF THE
TELLOIVrEKEk,
Tj 1 VER fincj this dileafe made such this
ciiy and Nevv-t ork, the author iiiis rarped his
attention to its cauCes anJ cure.—The relwlt of hii .
enquiries has convinced iiim tliatthe rcaion why so
tew j)eiions recover from its atvu<. bs, arc frem its
net Deiny: well underftoovl, and tivf cctefeqii.ut
wronp method taken to cure it. He u pfrfwuteiJ
thit the exceifive blecdiens and iuc rt;. -ica.t
of the Fa .ahy i.« highly iLjuriuUfc. au<i ?I*.: the
ly rstn>im! of treatment is Uy rli« ui'c of proper
uchis. Co'"i"vmcctl of-tkrehx. offers hTs Spedfc a3 a
certain remedy, it used according totthk diredioni.
To be had in botiles, at one ilotlar each, of the
inventor Geo. lliggins t Cherry flreet, two doors a
bove Ninth itrcet, (late manager or Jachfon and
Co's Medicine WarehtArfe, London); by J.Lr
blari£, No. %16 ; IV. Griffith, No Feara, No.
fcf, South Third street, T. Stiff, No. 55, J^ew•rees",
near Viiie flreet, and J. Gales t N«. 36, Race fireet.
Aug. *■s< tuths 3t
7 jR. A N - A W ;V Y7
ON the 1 ft. infl.-from the Subscriber, an
apprentice lad, named Kendal Merrill,
about twenty years of age,, by trade a Tailor,
and had about fix mouths to i'erve. An/pcr
fon who %iill apprehend said run away, so that
be may be teturntd to the Subscriber, wiij
receive a haudi\.me reward and nafuiuble
charges.'
EDWARD GRAHAM.
Sept. 7. ee. *3t.
' City Commijfioners Office,
Aug»ft 29. 1797-
IN pvrfuance of an Ordinance of the Select and
Common Council*, pafltd the 22d of May lafl.
Pro;-ofaU in writing will he received hy the City,
CoranuflioTiers for o«ie month from the jft of Sep*
tetiiher next, for luting to rent on leases for ot)e
year ti commence tke firlt day of January next.tiu:
following public property of the city—
The wharf landing on Vine Street,
Also on 5-aflafrd-, '
Mulberry,
And High Street.,
Ckefnut and Walnut Streets, Draw Br djf, with
th« Scale and Fi(h Houses, Spruce, Pine ind Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the midtli- ferry on Sihuyliill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as fba.ll be occupied by any buildings creat
ed for the use of the Collector of the Tolls, or be
necessary for the toll-gates.)
Ang. 3 , 3tawim.
TO BE SOLD, '
And pojjejjion given immediately,
ALAUGh two llory brick Houfe,handfomely
situated in Princeton. There are four rooms
and a large entry on each Soor, and five rooms in
tbe garret, a range of bsck buildings jl feet in
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. 7'here is a pump
in the yard, an eieelleut kitchen garden, at the
firther end of which are a carriage house and two
stables, one of which is new, 44 feetlong, with
Halls in the two (tables for 27 horses. The heal
thiness and pleafantnels ot its situation, and the
number of genteel and agreeable families in and
ntsr the town, render it a desirable retreeat for a
gentleman from the city. I'he commodioufnefs of
the house, its central poiition, and the largeness of
the stables, make it etery (citable for a tavern, for
which it has always been considered as a capital
ilaad. Inquire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN, jvn.
Princeton, Ang. *5. 29 —diwatwtf
80 Dollars Reward.
I A.ST night the shop of the fubfcrlber was op
-j ened, and several articles taken off, viz. a
common black leather pocket book, containing two
twenty dollar note* of the lalieniillion of thePenn
fylvania Bank, and a number of loose papers—
one pinchback watch with a carved cafe, and fix
fdver ones—one of these a French watch, original
ly made to tell tbetiay the month, hut this part
cf the been taken out—rtie figures on the
dial plate were left—Another w.is niarie by Love- I
I nd, London, the number 3113 jß'hird wajs mark
et! on the dial plate as wel as iheiufide Amber,
New-York. No particular* are rccoile<sl
ed« Whoever discovers the thief, or thieves, io
that they may be profecur d to convi&ipn and tho
property tecovirrtd, ihall have the above revVrard.
Forty dolf.rs wi]i paid for the property alone,
or in proportion for any part ot it
THOMAS LINDSAY.
N. B. aII watchmakers are requeft«d to flop
lie above watches ir offered for l»le.
Frankford, August 19.
Ane. at.
1 M FOR 1 K D
la ths Ihip America, James Swing, mailer, from
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands
White Platiilas
Ticklenbwrgs
Coatfc Linens
Tapes t
l.ookirg Gla.Tcs 7 . -
Glass Tumblers J '
FOH. SALE BY
George Pennock.
A;t«u,l 14. 3aw
An elegant House in Arch Street.
Tt) bi'itt and entered on immediately a large,
and elegant house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and one dining room —the targeft is 31 iept by
26 —and two are so connefled by folding doors
as to make but one. Also, five bed rooms, bc
fides 5 in the garret, well fiwilhed for lervants.
There are stables ard a coach house, wi'h evry
convenience for a family. Enquire at No. 29,
in North Seventh Itreet, or at No. iiß, Arch
Street;
Ausr. 1?. 2iwtw.
PETER BORGER,
INFORMS his friends and the public in general
that he has removed from No. 119, corner of
Arch and Fourth, to No. 105 North Front, be
tween Arch and Race streets.
July a*. ' ; »<W4w
Ro/s Iff Sim/otf,
II AVE roll SALS—
r HogCieads,
Excellent Coffee in Tierces, and
C. Barrel".
A (mail parcel of nice eccoa in bags
A few puncheons Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior Tcr.eriffee wine, old and in Madeirapipes
All invoice of jewellery and holiery t» be fold by
•lie package
A few hamn.'rsi
j Ju!y 27."
Imported in the ship Manchester,
Bi.NT4Miti S-H V. \\> ELL, M after,
from Bourdeaux, and for sale by the luLfcriber,
No. 11 Walr.ut St eet.
Bonrdeaux Brandy "J
Irilh claiet in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wiric, in do. f Drawback.
Sautcrne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatreyd.
WHO H.IS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rota do. do.
Pirnep*o in Ksk l ".;
,4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tutSc6tf.
APBftSON OF INGENUITY, latsly arrived
from Europe, wifttcs to find here a place in
the quality us a 1/rcilcr of a Glass-house, Chry.l
-of all kinds, having particular means for the
corftrusion of tke kilns, pots, 4-c. and pofleSrg
likeicife the articles used in the Glals houfts of
Engiind and Franee, haviag worked a long while
111 r.u!t of them. Every, exertion will be made to
rendei yi. manufaflory doferving of public appro
bation-ljle. who wilhes to speak to him, will find
him at No. 275 Front-ftiest.
Abguft 24. «4t
For iale or to be let o'a ground
rent,
A valuable Lot qf Ground ;
QIFIJATE on the corner of Wal-
J nur and Fifth ttreets, fronting the State-
House i'quare. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Wain tit street, and o'ne hundred cr.d thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
Jprefeiit twoi'mai! .wo flory brick buui'es, and a
number ci i'mall tenements thereon.
AHa, for Sale,
Two three flory Brick Houses
With convenient flores, whirs, &c. fnuatc on
Water-fh-Cet, between Mulberry and SafTifras
streets, containing in front on IVater llree: Gf
ty-four feet, and eontuiuing that breadth eaft
w.ird ninety-five f«t, tb«i widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thtfe houfts
ave the convenience cf a public alley adjoining
ory the north fide, and are a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour faflor,or others who
miy have occsfion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
for calh., For further information apply to the
printer.
July qr. m&wtf
The Subscriber has for Sale,
A large aflortment of India Muslins,
coarse and fine
India Calicoes
Sooty (tomalls
B'ue Cloths and Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irilh Linsus aad Sheetings, well
assorted
A box of Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
Two boxes of fine Spices, cotaicing Nutmegs,
Mace and Cloves
Black Pepper of firft quality
Ball, India Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Win.
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimitone
Mordecai Lewis.
Aupi/i i». stmtvt
Cedar Shingles.
THE fubferiber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar
Shingles <f a superior quality, fvr sale at 13
dollars p.r tl.oufand.
William Hallow ell,
No, 193 North Third flreet.
July 17. # eoiat
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an act of Congref. of tbe
United State, of America, palled at Phila
delphia, tke »Bth day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ties on Carriage , for the conveyance of perfonj,
which Ihall be kept by or for any person, for his
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
of pafTengers, the several duties and
rates following, tp wit :
For and upon every Coach, 15 duls.
upon every CI nriqt, 12 dols.
unon eyery Post Chariot, 12 dots,
upon every Post Cfeaifc, 12 dol«.
upon every -Phaeton, with or without top,
9 dols.
upon every Coachce, 9 doh.
upon other Carriages, having pannel work ;
above, with biinds, glasses o. curtains,
9 dels.
upon.feur wheeled Carriages, having fra
med polls and topi v.iih steel lprings, 6
'dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
en pr iron fprinjsor jacks, 3 dols.
upcii Curricles with tops, 3 dols.
noon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
u;>on Chairs w >h tops, 3 dols.
u! on other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with Iteel or
iron fpriru-s, 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 2 dols.
upon every lour wheeled carriage, having
framed polls and ".ops, and relling up
on wooden spars, 2 dols.
The Collectors of the Revenue lor the firft Sur
vey of the Diftrifl' of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the jcth day of September n»xt, ior
the puipofe of receiving the duties oii Carriages, at
No. 117, in Hace or Saffalras-flrcet, in the City ol
Philadelphia; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efq.
in the County of Montgomery; and at the houle
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ;
of which all persons poffelfcd of such Carriages are
desired to lake notice.
Notice i& also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dif
til|ed spirituous liquors, that licences will be grant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the busi
ness of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying 011 the bulinels of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in Ufs quantities than 20 gallons, at
the fame time and at the lame pfacas, by the offic
ers legally authorised r« grant such licences.
f. U_,L.IAM NICHOLS,
InfpeiSor cf the Revenue of the firlUui.
vcy of the 1); R. .Ot of FennlylvrJiß.
Office of Infpeflion at "?
Philadelphia, 3d Aujftifl,
ThoßTas Herman Lexjffer,
North Fifth itract, corner North alky, No. 34,
HAS FOR SALE,
EXCELLENT red'B'iurdedUx Wipe in cits?,D4.
b«*es, 'fx yens oiti
White Graves Wine ill cz{b»
Tickirn burgs
RufTia Sail .Cloths
Ravens Duck
Bnp Linen
Hefiiiins
Diaper and Tabic Clotb
Empty huf»
Ctnimoh .Girls jn Cloth
- ajffortmcnt of black coiptired Ribboai
Fine German Laces
About twelve tons Kuilii clejn Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in, small bojes, for family life
Window Glafa 49 —nw
THIS DAY v\'AS I'CJbLIMiED,
And for sale by THOMAS DOS SON, at the
Stone Ilnnfe. No. 41, i'outh Second street.
EVENINGS at HOME >
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Confining of a variety cf Mifcelianeous Pieces Tbc
the aad amusement of YOUNG 1 £R
SONS—Six Volumes printedarid bound
up hi two volumes, price Two Dollars.
Tbf variety ard excellence of these piece# are
such, that the book needy only to be known to be
univerfiliy efleemed one of the moll valuable pub
'ications th t can be put into the hands of young
perfoas.
" Delightful talk to rear the
To teach the young idea how tu Ihoot, -*
Jo.pour tio'i irelh icllru&ioa o'er the mind,
To breathe til' enlivening spirit, and to fix
The generous purpafe ia the glowing bread."
Thomson.
Augufl 24. nrwf4vt
THIS D .Y is PUBLISHED,
Ey THOMAS DOBSOJV, at tlic Stone House,
No. 41, foutli Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between feYeral Yc*ng Lad'non improving aod iflr>
fubje<6U.
Traa'flated from the Dutch of Mad#** & Camion
with alteration* and improvements,
Printed enfine paper, aadneatly bsund,
Pries one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales ef extraordinary distress, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comas forward to f<M
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real Hfe y the proper, beoaufs
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
ebaraSlir is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and presents examples of real and attainable e*cel«
kftce.
The publisher was fomuch pleafedwith the pern*
sal, that he was persuaded he fhojild do a pleasing
service to the cpmmunity by fending it in o circu
lation. August 24 —mw4w
To Masters and Pilots bringing up Vtffetk
from Foreign Ports to this City.
WHereas l'undry infringements have lately beej*.
made on the laws of this {late for the pro-,
venting pellilential or infectious diseases, eithc»
from ignorance or inattentioa thereto, it is tho't*
expedient at this-timeto publish the following ex«r
tra&s from the laws of a2d Aprils 1794, 7th zstfr
Bth fe&ions.
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794.
Extraft cf an 41ftfor fcwring the sify and port\
of Philadelphia from the introduction cf pefl't
lenlial and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And. be it further cnaded, that every
mailer or captain cf any (hip or veflei coming front
lea (vcfTc;l« a&ually employed n the coafhrg trade
excepted) and bound to any port ot place within
the jurildi£lion of Pennfylvania,ihall cause hisfbip
or vefiel to be bright to anchor,or otherwise Hay—
eil in tbe of the river Delaware, oppofitw to
the Hea'th-Olfice on State-Iflsnd aforefaid, and
there to remain until he shall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of heath from the Resident Phy
sician. And il, previeufly to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any matter or captain fhali
l'uffer hisfhip or veflei to approach nearer than the
laid Health-Office to the city of PkiladeJpbip, or
(hall land, cause orfuffer to be landed, 01* brought
oa shore, at any place or port within this Co:r»-
inUnwtalth. or at any other port cr place, with the
intent 0/ being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any p> rfon or persons, cf any goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving such bill of health
o: certificate, he {hall ncgLefc or rtfufe to deliver
the to the Health-Ofucer, such mailer or cap
taiu fliaH forfeit Asnl p-y, for and every fuclt
offence, the fumof five hundred dollars.
And the captain or mailer of every fh-ip or ves
sel ftsall fend a fafe arid commodious boat to brii]g
the pJiyfician ori board, and shall in like manner
convey aim back to the Health-Office, after he has
concluded his official examination ; And while he
is making such examination, cr in rafc any fubfc
quept examination by the Hcal.h Officer or Con
j fuitiog Physician, agreeably to the directions of
thi- aA, the mailer or captain fhali expose or cauic
to be cxpofrd to thefeareh of the Resident P/hyfi
ci.in,or of the Health Officer and Consulting Physi
cian (as the cafe may be) each and every part of the
fhij> or veflei, and shall present to his view each
and every person cr persons on board thereof, and
and (hall also true and fatisfailory anfwtrs make
to all such queflions as the Resident Physician, &c.
at the time of examination shall ask relative to the
heaUhof any port or place fr»m which the fjiip or»
vei*el failev*, or has since touched at—the Bttmben
of perfbns on board when the ship or vessel entered
on her vdyoge —the number ot persons that
frnce been landed or taken on board, and
and whererefpe&ively—what persons on board—
s they have been during the voyage, or {hall, at>.
the time of examination, be infe&td with any pes
tilential or conbgious disease—and what is the pre
sent {late and condition of the persons on board
with refpcA to their health or diseases. And i£ v
any mailer or captain {ball refufe to expose a* afore-t
aid, to the search of any of the officers
/» if he ftiall conceal any sick perfon t $r in any other man"
£er deceive tie proper officer j aforefaid in bis an/ivers 0
uch captain or mafter,for every such offence, fhali
forfeit end pay the sum of five hundred dol
lars.
Sect. 8. And if aay person or persons whatfo
4ver (tlie Resident Physician, &.c. excepted) shall
go on board any veflei, before the i*afler thereof
has received a certificate of health in the manner
directed, every person so offending, shall pay the
UIU of ONfi HUNDRED DOLLARS.
IT beiag absolutely necefTary that the foregoing
fe&ions fbould be punctually complied witli* the
fubferiber, in compliance with his duty, mull ex
ail a rigorous observance of the lame, or tife be
tuicte? thu nectfilty of putting the laws ip force.
Wa. Health Officer of the
Port it' I'JjiUdelpbia.
JuIT 14.
\VCLV*JIE XI!TS-*. —— i , ,
PHILADELPHIA,
fJCCXDA r EVENING, SEPTEMBER, it.
DEATHS li/ fftrs art.
6n §at'?i\jay liijl, James E\vlng,'o/
tot Jhip America.
A fc*x dapJitiit, Mr. Peter Serafendikei
Oft Saturday tinning, in Mis, Hin's Court,
nftir pock ahd Second J{t:cct, Mr. Timothy
Rutfeil, Printer, ahd a fndy and he? Daugh
ter, lately arrived from England.
Yejlerday morning, Mr. Nathaniel- Bar
nett, of North Thirdflrett, and Mr• George
DarmSn, of the Cuflom Houfti
The OoveTnrtr of Charleston "has issued a
proclamation offering a reward of One Thou
sand Dollars to any- person •who may give
information which may lead to thedifcovery of
the principles or accomplices in a plan,
■which he has reason to suppose is earried on,
for making secret iiiiiftments for improper
and illegal purposes.
CO M WUNICATIO V.
S-nie vcfTet, illy e»<>sgh employed, wafted over
foßeflort, a turbulent Paddy, who was perrnitre-i
Kv pood will of the oiptain, and sft r earned soli
citation a land, (unhappyin belngcho
fen tor jr. afvlu-n hy too maTy ft oundrels) as a tlecr
age vi(Tcn;»ft. This hoir-hred Cub lud no fnoner
fct foot In Airleriea, than he gave nat that he fled
fror* govs rrnienta'
to for,era! himfelf for nruty w. j eks previous to his
di parture—Though it is,a well known ftfl that he
came down on board the vcCcl daily, for wunv
d yspr-violl* to her failing. Having thus e*citod
aJittle attention by dubbing himfelf a prrftcutii pa
tricl, he loon became emboldtncd to the greatest
height of impudence and as it is the prerogative
of his inture, to feel no lack of afTurame, be soon,
by tl.u hrlp 6 r a number of turbulent and fa&ions
demagogue', set up an IriQl daily paper, which,
during the short time it laded, was sedulously im
proved in impudently ctlumniating that govern
tnent, nnder tbe protection of whose lenient hind
the pcnnylefs Pad y had met a refuge from flarva
tion : 1 his, naturally, soon died ; and our booby
became an underftrapp r to a f (3'ous Theatre ef
taMJlVd by a vile crew of Ja obias. Here he
produced an Irish tragedy- ("Thin day at eve
I'll meet thee here again") but the few filly pud-
tfaped and flared at the wil : phantasms
of his lunatic brain, arnufmg at length their b
mifte 4 senses kicked the tiagedy. together with
Mr. P-iddy, into contempt. Thus he failed here—
hr spite of allhi« Tudiet at Trinity Colkge, from
which, however, by his own flunid eonfailion, it
epp ars he had been expetle with contumely and
tU£j;: ace. A short time flnce, he informed th. pub
lie, in the trnth-lovisg Chronicle, that he was in
volved in debt, and designed to tax. their juries
With another tragedy, whereby he means to
pay his debts vid transport his filthy carcase
rack agrin to that I»nd, from which he was driv
en by gtvcrvmr4.il perfnation ~t We is valouroufly
going t» dive into the LnnV mouth, and his n :w
Irifk tragedy, by the fubli.Tte litctary feaft it is to
afior.i his gaping creditors, is to compensate all
their deinan is.
1 his insolent intruder could not cjuil the foil to
which he has already too long ben a pollution ;
without a rew l'pecimen of Jacobin-Irish Impu
&nce. He hands to the Lying Chronicle a mess of
botheration and nonsense, which even their ftuptd
intellects perceived to he unworthy of publication
But net* light beiig thrown upr.n the fubj:3, pro
bably by the additron of a little C ash to th" com
munkation, by forae friend of the needy citizen,
the ill '.crate ard heterogeneous hodge-podge is 6
na' y thrust upon the puhlie. Independent of the
chara<fter upon whom these dirty off i'o,nrin ;« of
the kennels of Jacobinism are h- aped,bsing a iif
tinfuifhed public servant, the intrirific infolei ce ol
tone, and knldmfs of public insult, mull arouse
the true American bl«od in the veins of every man
who lus net too great a contempt for the worth
less bully t» notice him. These raftals will ky ana
by turn u out of our own ho -f t, and take pof
ftffion of our goods and chattels, in th« name of
liberty and equality. Indeed it 1« high time to re
pel their unbridled insolence, and o hu'l hack in
their teeth their own vile calumnies The lying
Chronicleers who preoounced -he Irish nonsense in
the firft inflanc* to be unworthy even their own
proflituted anJ dir'y pages, have since informed
their readers, that it ought to be read to the chil
dren, aiul deposited among the vatuakli papers of
•very citizen. The whole piece discovert a brutal
ignorance, and a total üßXcquaiiitance with chrnn
obgy—'• Cicero and Demotthenes" with other in
flancts of the fame kipd, abound in the stupid
medley of fcurrilit/ and impudence. Cato'i tam
ijbmnl is l'poken of in another place; hat it is ftonp
ing too low to criticise on so paltiy and con empti
ble a produflion.—Regard for the laws ia the sole
confederation which could save the puppy frpm a
lcick'd hreech or a wholcfome flagcllatiau of the
horsewhip.
" Learn, mangy cur, who 'tis youfiiarl at,
" You fpur.ging, funAion-lacVing varltt ;
" Though fools are hcens'd flaaderers
" This may not save your forfeit ears."
«' Dear spirit of our happy clime,
" With Star deck'd tiara and port sublime,
" Canst thou believe, oh ! Goddess blest,
'* Such Stygnn fiends thy realtii infelt ?
" Me*; such against thy ray ferane
" Do darkling howl with wolfi'h spleen,
" And wish to fee th.-e crucified,
" Thy ftamlefs garments to divide."
" Can he who 'gainst his country rais'd
•' His impious arm, by us he prais'd ?
" No ; rath r, each Colupii'ian briafl
" The vagrant catifF will detest,
" Can he who made the law hi< foe
" At hom.\ with us b* faithful ? No ;
" The doij that bit his master there
« Walks in a longer tether here."
From the NEIV-TOSK GAZETTE, W/.
EXTRACTS, tranflaled for this Ga%etU,
from the Hi/lory of Crimes, committed during
the French Revolution, jufl publijhed at Pa
ris, in fix volumes o3avo. Volume ijl,
page \fl.
" Others (of the proconsuls sent into the
different departments) put in requisition the
best wines, and expressly forbid all citizens
to buy any thing in the markets until they
had supplied their tables with the greatelt
rarities, and those of the ftaff-offieers of the
revolutionary army which accompanied <
them."
" We have seen those rascals abuse their
authority, I will not fay to fcduce, tor it is !
necessary to please in order to corrupt, but
to violate their young and innocent prison
ers, tp wrejl from them those precious fa- ;
vors which love reserves only for love. Some 1
of those prifoaers, rich and interesting, but <
subdued by terror, have been seen to give J '
their trembling hands to their executioners. ; i
Ala» ! some of those marriagee formed un- | i
der fueh fatal auspices, have been fometiroes ' i
ufcful to , humanity. They stopped the i
blood which flowed on certain occasion*." ■ ]
it {t would not have been prudent to r t '- {
fufe their alliance, as many of them guillo-, t
t|ucd tlw fathers fcr having refufed their j t
aaJgKters in narriage, whether to them
selves, or their fon9."
One of them diftinguiihed himfelf by
i deed (till more a'i'ociouS, -if possible. He
arretted a number of farmers. The pretext
r* was, they had not paid their civifc gift.—»•
Their unhappy wi<fes, at the feet of the pro
t cftnful, solicited the liberty of their lidf
binds. ■' Let them pay the sum they owe
' and they shall be free." " But what shall
we do ? We are poor and cannot." «« Bor
row—do as yon please ; but no liberty tin
lefs you bring what I demand of you
. They went out : in fine, at the end of fomi;
days, after having cxhaufted eve'/y possible
refoiirce, they brought the sum. Go—fays
! he to them, in three days you will fee your
_ husbands. Alai ! what is th« firft obje£t
, on going out \fhich strikes their view ? It
p was' their husbands going to the fcaffold, by
cJrder of the monster ; to whose house they
( , went in tears. lam very sorry for it, fays
. he ; very serious denunciations have' been
produced to me against them; you your
fdves are very happy nrrt to have shared the
fame fate. The stroke was too strong ; the
■ nlimber was too griat—he was denounced
I to the committee of pubucjifety. The
' | proconsul was summoned to give an account
! of his condu6t. One of his friends expressed
j some apprehensions of the result.—" This
I affair," answered he, " will be soon ir
-1 ranged ; I will carry some money to the
' committee." He was right ; one of the
members declared that the denunciation was
I ill-founded, and the tyrannical monster was
continued in mission.
" Others depopulated whole communes,
loaded multitudes of carts with human vic
' tims, from the great grandfather to the
child in the cradle, and sent them to the
slaughter house, established by the revolu
tionary tribunal of Paris." " Brave repub
lican," wrote they to Fouqu'cr Tiaville—
Brave republican ! (the villains !) —" Brave
republican, I fend you game for the guillo
tine, which soon I hope will be taken out
of the bags, and they sent back for more.
Take courage, support your energy ; we
will not let you want employment."
" One Twote to the committee of public
fafety, to complain to it that the law rela
tive to the military tribunes, was not adapted
to empty the prisons promptly, and that the
guillotine loft its prey."
" Another Wrote to his colleague :
" The guillotine continues to operate with
full force. I yefttrday caused 28 to be ex
pedited in the commune of " « In
three days it will begia its exploits here - '.'
This colleague answered him : I dined with
■ Robefpierrte yesterday, when we received
your letter, we laughed heartily ; go on as
you have begun—be not alarmed ; the guil
lotine ought to move more rapidly than
ever."
" Another said, in a popular society :
" The society reproaches me with being too
tender, too moderate ; they shall, damn me,
they shall fee,, if I am not soon at the sum
mit."—-The fawe caused a mother and her
daughter to be arretted in a promenade, cau
sed them to be ttripped, and run his hand
down one of their throats, under a pretext of
her reading counter-revolutionary works,"
" Some fans-culottrs complaining to a
priest who was pro-consul, that they had no
work and that they were in the greatett mi
sery. This scoundrel of a senator said to
them : " YOll are damnation fools ; don't
you know some rich persons? denounce them
to me ; I will have them guillotined, and
give you their property." One of them
answered : " Representative, I have a wife
and five children, and am without bread ;
Well, I would rather that myfelf and my
family should die of hunger, than to givf
them bread at that price. The rich of my
neighborhood have always supported my an- j
e;ft<»rs and myfelf, by paying us well for
our labor ; I will not repay their goodness
with the fouleft, blackett aft that can be
committed."
M A carrier of the mail faying tb one of
those proconsuls, that the roads were very
bad, that he had much trouble in getting
horses, was answered : " Address yourfelf
to the representatives near the armies, it is !
their business j mine is to cause heads to j
be cut off."
" The fame wrote to an administrator of J
thp diftrift t " Take courage, take energy,
do not leave at liberty a single man of wealth
or talents." And he answered to a keeper
of the prison, afked permiflion of him
to get the prisoners shaved : " I will have
them shaved, fays he, with the national ra
zor." He put on his .door the following
infeription : " Those who enter here to so
licit the enlargement of the prisoners, will
only go out to be put in a state of arrefta
tion." His agent 3 obCerved to him the
ho experi.nced in feeding the pri
soners, from the amazing quantity of them:
Oh ! damn them, give them a wooden bowl
of verdigtis, let them eat that or nothing."
" No, No, criej another, we must make
them soup in a large copper kettle ; we will
throw therein a quantity of verdegris, it will
be thought to have come from the kettle."
" Another agent wrote : " I am at pre
len< grand seigneur, I cart offer to my
friends every day, 011 leaving the table, a
large dish of mens heads."
" A commander of a detachment of the
revolutionary army, who was under the or
ders of those proconsuls, transmitted the
I words following as the order of the day :
PILLAGE, RALLYING, HOR
ROR."
JIKMJJIKS.
Truth begins to appear ; already in the '
above work has she broken her chains and 1
begun to tear off the veil from the ciious 1
of the Jacobins, and to expose them to the i
view of the .world in all their horrid defor- 1
mity. France is expressing the (hnrne it 1
feels in haVing givep birth to such monllers (
and in fuffering so long a time the scourge
infiifted on her by him.,. Americans fym- 1
p»ilfaized with France in her struggles a- r
gainst the combination against her; the t
freedom of the press being totally desTroy- t
cd, and, the tlirt&wa and controul 1
1- jof the party dominant, oh tins fide
\ the Atlantic, were ignorant to -What extent
y j the honors of the Jacobins extended. Lit
e tie did we think, that REGULATED
t i LIBERTY, that firft idul of our hearts,
- that objedt dearer to us than life, and with
>- ; out which life itfelf is, a burden, was daily
f- | bathed and almost drowned in the blood of
e her most virtuous and zealous worshippers
11 by hypoerites abusing and adling in her
name—Now that we know the truth,
1- ought not such among us who have advo
cated every measure adopted by the different
9 fa&ioas, who have governed France for
e eight years pas!, candidly to confefs that
s they had not till now the most distant idea
r of the exceffe6 to which things were cSr
;l lied, and of the danger to which CIVIL
t LIBERTY was exposed in creating an
y sbhorrence to it among the French them
j selves ? Ought not our " exclusive patri
-8 join the French people in execrat
n iri{( the raonfters, who have tyranized over
- France and drenched her in the blood of
e her bed citizens ? Ought they not particu
e larly to Join the Legijlativc Body in con
i demning the conduit of the jacobinic Di
e re&ory> with rofpect to their treatment of
t this country ? JTo, my fellow citizens, we
1 have fiends among us, who, with patricidal
s look and fatarrnic grin, have expressed satis
- fadtion at all the losses we have sustained
i from fm arbitrary, villainous order of the
'■ Executive of a foreign nation, which the
s people of that country have themselves
s pointedly called a piratical decree."
Let no fueh men be trusted either in
, public or private life—they are not radical
- ly found. It is remarkable that not an
: American privateerfman in France, not a
: traitor who has been in public office and
- betrayed and attempted to betray the in
- terefts of his country, but what has befcn
- a diforganizer, an enemy to our national
e jrovrnment—to virtuous Federalists
- who have administered it, and adtive .pro
t naoters arid insolent approvers of French de
. prtdatio*s on our property. On the con»
e trary, I defy our Jacobins to produce a fin
e's friend to our federal conflitution and
c its hitherto virtuous adminiflration, who
- has been concerned diredtly or indirectly in
1 privateering under French colours agatnft
: their countrymen, or who has abdfed the
sacred trull reposed in them as public offi
- ceri. N No, my fellow countrymen, you
1 j will find privateerfmen and traitors only
- among the " EXCLUSIVE PATRI
-1 OTS," the revilers of Washington, Adams,
' and fom« other real friends to their country
1 and civil liberty : It is high time to detach
1 yourfelvei from them, and rally round the
3 friends of Virtue, Order, and Federalism.
1 FRENCH CRUELTf.
HOM THE HISTORY OF THE FIVE INDIAN
NATMNS OF CANADA.
> " The Count dc Frontenac waspierced to
, the heart, when he found that he could not
• revenge these terrible inenrfions of the Five
• Nations ; and his anguifhmade him guil.y of
• such a piece of rtlonftrous cruelty, in burn
l ing a prisoner alive after the Indian manner,
f as though I have frequently mentioned to
have been done by the Indians, yet I fore
-1 bore giviug the particulars of such barbarous
1 afts, fufpedting it might be too offenfive to
• Christian ears, even in the history of fava
» ge». Here however I think it ufeful to give
: a cfrcumftantial account of this horrid ait,
1 to, shew on one hand, what courage and re
-1 folution,-virtue, the love of glory, and the
1 . love of one's country can instil into men*6
! minds, even where the knowledge of true
1 religion is wanting ; and on the other hand,
' how far a falfe policy, under a corrupt religi
r on, can debase even great minds.
The Count dc Frontenac, condemned two
•! prifouers of the Five Nations to be burnt
■ publicly alive. The Ihtendant's lady in
i treated him to moderate the fentcnce, and
: the Jesuits, it is said, used their endeavours
I for the fame purpose. But the Count de
Frontenac said, there is a necessity of ma
king such an example to frighte® the Five
' Nations from approaching the plantations,
I fihoe the indulgence, that had hitherto been
1 i shewn, had encouraged them to advauce
1 with the greatest bofdnefs to the very gates
los their towns ; while, they thought they
' f run ao other risque, but of being made pri
' foners, whire they live better than at home.
He added, that the Five Nations having
burnt so many French, juftified this me
thod of malyng reprisals. But with sub
mission to the politeoefs of the French nati
on, may I not ask, whether every (or any)
horrid-aftion of a barbarous enemy, can juf
tify a civilized nation in doiag the like ?
When the governor could not be mo
ved, the Jesuits went to the prison, to in
ftruftthe prisoners in the mysteries of our ho
ly religion, viz. of the Trinity, the Incar
nation of our Saviour, the joys of paradise,
and the punishments of Hell, to fit their
fouls for Heaven by baptism, while their
bodies were condemned to torment'. But
the Indians, after they had heard their sen
tence, refufed to hear the jesuits speak, and
began to prepare for death in their own
country manner, by fingiug their death
song.
Some charitable person threw a knife in
to the prison, with which one of them dis
patched himfelf: The other was carried out
to ihe place of execution by the christian
Indians of Loretto, to which he walked,
seemingly, with as much indifference as ever
Martyr did to the flake. While they were
torturing him, he continued singing, that
he was a warrior brave and without fear ;
that the most cruel death could not shake
his courage ; that the most cruel torment
fhau'd not draw an indecent exprefuon from
him j that hie comrade was a coward, a
scandal to the five nations, who had killed
himfelf for fear of pain ; that he had the
comfort to reflefl, that he had made many
Frenchmen fuffer as he did now. He fully
verified his words, for the most violent tQr
rrient could not force the least complaint
from him, though his executioners tried
their utmost skill to do it. They firft
.broiled his feet bttwesn two red hot stones;
r <
then /they put li is fingers into red hot pipes,
and though hfe had his arms at liberty, he
would uot pull his firjgers out ; they cut
his joints, and taking hold of the sinews,
twilled them round fraall bars of iron. All
this while he kept singing and recounting his
own brave a&ions again!! the French. At
last they flead his scalp from his (kull, and
poured scalding hot sand upon it ; at which
time the intendant's lady obtained leave of
the governor to have the coup-de-grace giv
en, and I believe she thereby likewise ob
tained a favour to every reader, in delivering
him from a further continuance of this ac
count of French cruelty."
MORAL.
Thoughts on Miff, confident! as a Microcofmos,
or Little IVorld.
Man has been considered, and with good
reason, as an abftraft or model in miniature
of the universe. God made him the last and
mod excellent of his creatures. He inter
nally endowed him after his own image,
with a divine understanding, whereby he
might contemplate and serve his Creator ;
and he furnifhed him with the powers and
faculties of reason that he might govern the
world and all the creatures fubjeCi to his
command. God also having created
three forts of living natures, viz. angelical,
rational and brutal, gave to angels an in
tellectual and to hearts a sensitive nature ;
but to man he vouchfafed both, together
with the rational abilities peculiarly be
longing to him ; and hence he became the
bond or chain of union of all the three, and
by his participation of them may be truly
said to be a little world, as presenting so ex
actly its component parts.
God therefore placed on the earth, the
man he had made, as it were another world ;
the great in the small: For out of the earth
and dust was formed the frefh of man, and
therefore strong and durable. His blood,
which is dispersed by branches' of veins and
arteries throughout the body, may be re
sembled to those waters which are called
brooks and rivers over all the earth ; his
breath to the air ; his natural heat to the
warmth which the earth Contains in itfelf,
and which, stirred up by the heat of the
fun, afliits naiui e ~nr iTuT fpeed:Vv procrM
tion of those rarities which the earth b'ring
• eth forth ; hi* radical mnifture, oil or bal
: sam, on which thr natural heat feeds and is
I maintained, tothefatandfertililyoftheearth ;
j the hairs of his body which adorn or over
i shadow it, to graft which covers the upper
j face and (kin of the earth ; his generative
t power, to nature which produces Ml things ;
his determination?, to light, wandering and
unliable clouds, wafted away by uncertain
winds ; his eyes, to the light of the fun and
moon ; the beauty of his youthful days, to
the flowers of the spring, which either the
fierce puffs of wind blow from their stalks,
or in a short time the fun's piercing rays dry
up and wither ; the thoughts of his mind,
to the rapid and inftananeous motion of ce
lestial fpiriti ; his pure nnderllanding to
those intelledtual natures which are always
present with God ; and his immortal foul,
while righteous and exalted by the beauty of
holiness, to the image and fimiltudc of God
himfelf, for, though in respect to God, no
man is just, or good or righteous, yet, with
such a kind of difference's subsists between
the substance and shadow, goodness may be
found in man, and God being pleased to ac
cept it, has therefore called him the image
and similitude of his own righteousness.
The allusion may be drawn out to a still
greater length, and man as the measure of all
things, may again resemble by his fevtn a
ges, the seven planets. Our infancy may
be compared to the moon, in which we
seem only to live and grow as plants ; the
second to Mercury, wherein we arc taught
and inftrudted ; our third age to Venus, the
days of love, desire, and vanity; the fourth
to the fun, the-ftrong, flourifhing and beau
tiful ag»of man's life ; the fifth to Mars, m
which we begin to take ah account of our
time, judge ourselves and grow to the per
fection of our understanding ; last, and se
venth, to Saturn, when our days are fad and
overcast. In these we find by dear and la
mentable experience, and by losses never to
be repaired, that of all our vain passions and
affections, sorrow only abideth. Our atten
dants are sicknesses, and sundry infirmities,
and by how much the more we are accompa
nied with plenty, by so much the more
greedily is our end desired. When time
has made us unfociabfe to others, we be
come a burden to ourfeWs, and are of no
other use than to withhold the riches we
possess from our successors. In this time it
is, that we, for the most part, and seldom
before, prepare for our eternal habitation
whith we pass on to with many fighs,groans,
and doleful thoughts* and in the end, by
the workmanship of death, finifh the forrow
fuT business of a wretched life, towards which
we are always making advances both in
sleeping and waking ; never have those be
loved companions of honor and riches any
power to hold one day, by flattering the
promise of entertainments ; but by what
crooked path foevtr we walk, the fame leads
on direftly to the house of death, whose
doers lie open at all hours, and to all per
sons. For this tide of man's life, after once
turning and declining, ever runs with a per
petual ebb and falling flream, but never flows
again—our leaf once fallen springs no more.
Neither does the fun or the fumm'er adorn
us again with the garments of new Leaves or
flowers. Foryf there is any baiting place, or
reft, in the course or race of man's life, the
fame might then be perpetually maintainal
livings, and as the"sap and juice, wherein the
life ofplants is preferred, does evermore as
cend or descend ; so it is with the life of
man, which is always either ipcreafing to
wards ripeness and perfection, or declining
towards rotteanefs and dissolution.
NO TI c £
THE Office* of the Department of War are for j
the ; r sent removal near to the t'il's ef the ScuyT
kill, on the Ri<lj; Roid.
September 4.
iiy this day\> Mail.
( NEW-YORK, September 9.
It appears by a New Prbvi'dence paper,
handed us lad evening by capt. Johnson,
that th« privateer Revenue,, tvbich captured
the (hip Asia, is owned by citizen Jean
Baron, residing in Philadelphia, as appear!
by a copy of the privateer's eortimiflW
found on board of the prize {hip.
The above paper is dated at Nassau, '
Aug. 11,
BOSTON, September 6.
fICKAROONERY.
Captain A 'jams arrived at Gloucester,
from Martinique,' l'rt lat. 40, long. 67, was
boarded from the piratical French privateer
which lately failed from Marblehcad, and
robbed of his light fails, a barrel of beef,
and some fmaii articles. The officer told,
captain Adams he should make a prize of
him, were it not that expeaing to fall in
with some Indiamen, he did not wi/h to be
detained.
CADIZ BOMBARDMENT.
By arrivals from Lisbon, we learn, that
admiral St. Vincents, after having obliged
the Spanish fleet to take fhelter'in Cadiz
harbour, had inveftcd that city. In the
prosecution of his plan, he captured port
St. Mary's, a place* about fix miles from
Cadiz, and from whence the city is supplied
with water, vegetables. &c. ftje Spanish
fleet having retired beyond the part of the
island on which Cadiz'is situated, St. Vin
cents proceeded to bombard both the city
and the fleet beyond it. By the last ac
counts from- Lisbon, the bombardment must
have commenced about the 4th or sth of
July, and had not ceased on the 9th or 10th,
as will be seen by Mefirs letters.
Lord St. Vincents' ffeet has been strongly
reinforced since his engagement with the
Spanish : And the troops which lately eva
cuated th£ island of Elba, in the Mediter
ranean (4000) are said to have joined him.
It is said. » gif«t »art of the inhabitants
-have rr-TI, 3l~tfieTjparufhfleet~27rccwered no
disposition to meet the' English ; which
from its length of time at sea, and experi
ence of commander*, was in.a high state of
discipline. The damages done to the town,
and .fleet, are variously related ; but the fa&
of the bombardment may be relied on.
The pofleflion of port St. Mary's was ne
ceflary to the supply of the English fleet
with water.
Letters from Lisbon suggest it as the
opinion of many, that admiral Jerri# means
to destroy as much of the Spanish fleet as
possible ; and then lay Cadiz under' a heavy
contribution a la mode Francaije.
In such contempt does admiral Jervis hold
the Spanish fleet, th»t while lying ofTCadiz
harbour, he by turns unrigged and rigged
the veftels of his fleet, n open view ; and
it one time, we are informed by an Ameri
can captain who saw it, five ships had aau
ally their t&pmafh on deck at the fame timt?*.
and fevcral ship's of the squadron (ailed into
the harbour, gave the forts a broadside, and
returned. C. : i
Capiain Alien, arrived at Gloucester from
Lisbon, 50 days, confirms the of
the bombardment.
LATE FROM FRANCE.
' [Through the friendly attention of Mr.
John G. Rogers, of Gloueeftcr, we were
Lift evening favored with Paris papers to
T u 'y 16th, received there by captain Inger
fol, from Bordeaux.]
Afteracurfory perusal of them, we can
only fay, that the Courier Ju Corps Legifla
tify of July 16, informs:—The negociationa
for peace are seriously entered upon at Lille.
Every day the two legations meet 3t 11 in
the morning :—Their conferences are never
long. The English conduft with prudence ;
and are much esteemed in Lisle. The mi
niflers of the French legation are also held
in high refpeft. Fifty cannon were fired cm
the arrival us lord Malmefbury, at Lisle.
" Letters from Italy state, that general
Meerfeldt has again arrived at Montebello ;
svhere he had a long conference with general
Buonaparte ; which terminated to the fatis
ifaftion of the two parties. Buonaparte im
mediately difpatehed a courier extraordinary
to Paris. Ti"» fame letters kate, that the Ift
July was fixed on for the |>urpofe of pro
claiming at Milan, the definitive treaty of
peace ; and the independence of the Italian
republics."
In the fame paper of the 15 th, in a de
bate upon the celebration of the 14th Ju
ly, Vaublanc congatulated the Council, that
the mediation of Buonaparte, fupportcd bv
the pacific disposition Si the Directory, had
succeeded in the liberation of La Fayette,
Latour Mauburg, and Bureau de Puzy,who
are reflored to liberty and independence.
The negotiations at Lisle are to be car
ried on solely with the English Commiffion^r.
The " Pojlillor. d;s Armeei" of the 14th
July, fays, that Perignon is recalled from
the embafiy to Spain ; to which place Per
rochel has been sent.
" It appears positive that the emperor
has difpatehed orders for the liberation of
the prisoners at Olmutz." This paper of
the 6th July contains" Prefidtnt Adam:,'
speech at full length.
FEDERAL REPRESENTATIVES.
In the 4th middle diftria we reafon
to think, that Bailey Bartlett, Efq is chc
fen to supply the vacancy occasioned by the
resignation of Judge Bradbury.
In Rhode-Island, James Burrill, jun. Esq.
i was generally voted for.
In New-Hampshire, the accounts stand
in favour of Mr. Livermore, te fucceedMr.
Jeremiah Smith.
On Saturday the Chevalier d'Yurojo, vf
fited the Prefidcnt of the United States at
Quincy.
The Chevalier attended the theatre on
evening, and ye.lsrday gave an «n-' * ' ' L V ' - 1
to several a< lu& resi
dence at Mr. Con fat Stonghton's.
It is a strong proof of the salubrity of the
air of this town, and the a&radtions of its
inhabitants, that the southern gentlemen in
the r,northern visits, give it the preference.
Tfce.town is now thronged with ftranger3 of
refpe&ability ; and a remarkable degree of'
health .prevails.
On Saturday, a weli-drefied fwindler,was
fcen eying very curiously the pockets of the
gentlemen on the Exchanger—and not giv
ing faticfaftory answers to proper inquiries,
he was obliged to make a speedy retreat to
avoid hustling.
Lad evening, Stephen Smith, a blackman,
was convifted before the Supreme Court,
.now fitting of Burglary in Mr. Gyldfbury's
/house the b.ft spring—Death.
Monday la ft failed from this port the
sloop , for the Bay of Fundy, carrying
Mr. Wright, astronomer on the part of the
British government, and profeflor Webber,
astronomer on the part of the United
States, and a young gentleman, as an assist
ant. The-objeft of their voyage is to ascer
tain the longitude and latitude of the two
rivers St. Croix's, and to complete their
surveys, that the result of the whole may be
laid before the Commiflioners at their nieet
ing in June next in Providence. g
The annual " Dudleian Le&ures" wilf
be delivered at Harvard University, 011 thii :
day. The fubjett of this year's discourse}
is " the errors of Popery." Rev. Mr.
will deliver it in the College Chapel, at 3'
o'clock P. M.
SALEM, September 5.
Cspt. George Hodges arrrived here on
Saturday from St. Domingo, where he was
obliged to witness the facrifice of his veflel
and cargo to the French pirates who cap- j
tured her on her homeward paffagc from |
India. Not content with so rich a prize, j
we understand that capt. Hodges anp his ■
people were stripped of almost every neces
sary personal article.
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
■ ■ ■ r*.
Just received, by Wm. Griffiths,No.South
Second'ftrcet, i frefh supply of
Qenuinc Bal/am of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir JotirK Hill
(who knowledge as a Botanist procured liira
the appellation of the Linnaeus of Britain) and 15
•onfidered in England as a ctrtaim «#■/ for the above
complaints ;• it is also of Angular efficacy in the
Hooping Coueh,
It may alftToe had retail of W. A. Stokes,N».
61, South Second-street, and T. Snrr, sjjNew
ftreet, in bottles at 75 cents each.
Wm. Griffiths having observed the happy et
fe& of the medicine, (several cases of cures hav
ing eomp within his and the great
demand for it has induced him to order a large
fupp'jr, a part of which he has just received.
3- xaw3W
At a Meeting of the Board of
Property, June 6, 1797,
Present John Hall, See'ry.
Francis Johnfton, R. O. > oflandoflice
, Dan. Brodhead, 8. G j
Nicholas Bettinger,
•veifus >■ '
Samuel Cunningham, j
rfithis cafe the proof of service of notice be
ing ialufficient, Itisordered that notice be giv
en in one of the Philadelphia and York newspa
pers weekly; for it lealt eight Weeks to the
heirs or afligneet of S.irnuel Cunningham de
eeafed, to atttend the board on the firft Monday
in November next, to shew caule why a patent
ftouM not ifliie to Niehola* Bettiuger for the
land in question.
(A true Copy.)
JOHN HALL,
Secretary of the Land Office.
Aug. if. *rawg\v.
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy-
Ditto ditt>> Claret in cases
Just received, and for Sale by
Rundle & Leech.
4*g. 11. aawtf
This Day is Published,
BY NJcff. Dob (on, Carev> Campbell, Rite, anil the
ochef Booklellers»
frice One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
FJeganty printtd oh IVove paper, and Hot*
prejfed,
By John Thorapfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
T*he Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with*
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
elafling together their most important provisions,
under the several heads of administration ; with
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina, '
L L. D. and member of the Congrcfs of the
United States.
Dedicated to the People of the UnitedStatcs.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
February 6 mwf
* — : ;
just published,
And to be fold at the Bcokftores of H. £3* P.
Rice, No. 50, Market-street 1 J. Ormrod,
No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, and W. Young, 1
corner of Chefnut and Sec ond-ftreets, ,
An accurate System of Surveying;
IN WHICH 18 CONTAINED, 1
I. Decimal fractions, in a plain, coricife, j
*nd easy manner. j
». Theextraflion of the fqnareroot.
3. Plain trigonor.Ktry, redlangular and ob
lique.
4. An exa<S method to call up the contents 1
«f lands.
5. Field surveying. 1
The whole being performed without the life .
•f scale and compalTes, on a table of logarithms.
In which is given some account cf-the variation
of the needle, and the canfes of its attrition. '
By SAMHfiL MOORE. 1
August 1. ' aaw2w I
Window Glass, <
Of Superior Quality, and cktaper than any other in ]
the City— 1
OF FURIOUS SIZES, i
From Bby 6 to iq by 14, .
By the fi(i){' c " Qx or Quanii'.y, may be had at th*
S:oic of the Silbl'ciiben, comer of Arsli and Froßt
ftrect.
Jtitrtes C. & Samuel W. Ftjher. i
Philsdelphia, J' vfg, 1797. fiwrowftl
yrtte.
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, Septembfr ii.
. Totals of burials for 24 hl'lrs, ending Satur
day at noon.
• St. Mary's Church 1 Adult.
German Lutheran 2 I Child.,
German Calvinifts 3 O
Field o 4
City Hospital* 17 o '
Kensingtons 1 3
Total 24 8
* Fourteen of theft -Mere from the city.
f All from Camptown.
At a meeting of the inhabitants of the Nor
thern Liberties, held at their toivn-houfe on
the 28th ult. a Committee of Enquiry, tonfijl
i"g of 49 persons, <were appointed to aft in con
junction ivith the Board of Health, in order
to prevent the spreading of the prevailing dis
ease.
/ September 9th, 179^7.
f Mr. BENJAMIN WTNKOOP.
Sir,
Agreeably to promise, I fliall now 1 nply
: as concisely aa pofiible to such parts of your
letter as occur to my recolleftion.
The reason why I did not mention the
ctrcumftances which gave rife to the yellow
fever in 1793, was not, as you insinuate,
because those did not suit my
system, or because the dites were so recent
that I was afraid of having the fubjedl in
vestigated ; but, brciufe the colltge of
physicians had publiihe<l their opinion that
. the disease took its origin from contagion,
j and that they believed the contagion had
! been imported by a vefTel from t?ie Weft
■ Indies. Let those desirous of feeing* the
reasons afligned •by the college for their
opinion, call on Dr. James, the secretary
of the college, and fatisfy themselves ; or
read my ( review of Dr. Rufli's book on
the subject, published in 1794.
You ask how certain pcrfonJ-to the nortti,
came to be affe&ed with fever, before those
to the south of the Arsthufa, (which I
have charged wijh giving rife to the dife.ife)
when the wind mud have carried the efflu
via, if any arose from that veflel, in an op
posite direftion to them. This circum
stance is easily explained.—Contagious dis
eases do not require wind to waft them
from one person to another—all they re
quire is the near approach of the found to
the bodies of the sick, or to any porous
substance that hag lately been near the body
of the sick in a confined situation. While
the brig Iris from Oporto was unloading,
the crew of the Arethufa had to pass across
that veflel to get on (hore with their chests,
bedding, &c. ar.d it is natural to suppose,
as some of the bungs flew out of the wine
calks and the mariners were miking merrr,
that some of the crew of the Arethufa alio
partook of their cheer with them. Mr.
Latimer, Mr. Lewis, and others, might
have received the contagion from palling
near thole people with their infefted mate
rials ; those who workccK in fail-lofts from
her fail* and those of the Hind ; and this is
the way that contagious fevers are generally
propagated, and this, I am sure, is one of
the ways that the disease now continues-to
be propagated. Contagion is an invisible
substance, known only from its effefts.
The effluvia of mar(Ke3, of putrid vegeta
bles, or of bilge water, which contains no
thing different from ftagtiant marfli water,
namely, vegetable and animal substances in
a state of putrefadlion, when they have
any effeft at ally only produce an intermit
ting or remitting fever, according as the
fubjeft to whom thejr are applied is morfc.
or less vigorous ; and diseases pro
duced are never propagated by contagion.
Please to permit me to tranferibe the o
pinion delivered gn this fubjeft, by one of
the best informed and molt judicious physi
cians of the present or any former age, the
celebrated Cullen of Edinburgh, in his firft
lines, vol. i
" As fevers are so generally epidemic, it
is probable that some matter floating in the
atmosphere, and applied to the bodies of
men, ought to be considered as the remote
cause of Fevers : and theCr matters present
in the atmosphere, and thus afting upon
men may be considered, either as contagions
—that is effluvia, arising direftly or origin
ally frotnthebody of a man under a parti
cular disease and exciting the fame kind of
disease in the body of the person to whom
they are applied ; or Miasmata that is efflu
via, arising from the stagnant water of marsh
es (which contain more or less dead and
putrefying vegetable matters) producing a
disease in the person to whom they are ap
plied."
" It appears likely that the contagions
which produce fevers are not of great vari
ety ; perhaps there is but onecommon
of such contagions."- s
" For it is well known that the effluvia
ftantly ifluing from the living human body,
if long retained in the fame place, without
being diffufed in the atmosphere, acquire a
Angular virulence ; and in that state being
applied to the bodies of men, become the
cause of a fever which is highly contagious."
" The existence of such a caul? is fully
proved by the late observations on jail, hos
pital, (and ship fevers)."
That these contageous effluvia are render
ed more or less virulent as the dircumftance
of climate' and season happen to concur with
the other circnmftances which give origin
to the contagion has been l*telyconfirmed by
the obfervationsof Do&or Chilholm of Gre
nada an a (hip fever which was introduced
into that ifknd in the vernal season of 1793,
and destroyed one fifth of all the inhabitants
and nearly one half ot all the ijiariners at
that time in purt.
I have foftietbing rrore to [add on this
fubjedt, but ahi obliged to defer it to a fu
ture opportunity. In tl.e mean time ac
cept «f the firi«re!t wishes for your welfare.
From your humble fervnnt,
r WILLIAM CUR RIE.
MR. *iV\'o,
/ An artful, mfidious paper, signed A
' Friend to Mankind, was left at my houfs
the other day. It affects, with wonderful
1 philanthropy, to give advice for the cure
;of the prevailing disorder. Any one who
reads that trash must bt more than a fool
! not to fee at once the object of the writer.
You will oblige me by telling the pale-faeed
hypocrite who wrote it, that if he had any
friendfhip to mankind, he ought to have
damiled his performance b< his name. I
will answer for it, that he who is the friend
• of so many, has not one real friend on ctirti.
T
Surgo-ut-pro/im, the Jacobin Ther/ites,
who has so long furnifhed dull wit for the
1 gitdgeo/is, flimfy scandal for the ipilH-fops,.
and gross lies for the more malicious and
hardened of the Jacobin fed ; has decliued
(the very natural confeqence of a continued
: fairienefs) to a mere caput morluum, an dSi
gy of what once attra&ed some notice.
Every body fays now—" I wonder that
I you will still be talking, fignior Bache, no
body marks yon."
His paltry calumnies have loft even their
power of exciting indignation, and a tran
fien* emotion of contempt is almoit tie only
attention they attraft ; they are now re
garded things of course, arising rather
from 3 native propensity to bafeneis, than
founded on this or that particular exciting
canfe.
A French writer on finances, fays, " the
' various' miseries, created by the Revolution,
! have received as yet no alleviation. The towns
are yet unable to maintain their, police,
tals, or work-houses for their poor,- who can
find no employment
" A tax which has been laid upon Salt is
little better than a renewal of the Gabelle, one
of the principal topicsjkpf all the abuse pour
ed forth again/1 the ela fyfiem : Jlill the roads
are neither mended nor guarded,—nor are the
flreets either watched or'lighted.
" The tenant, deprived of the means rfiob
taining bread by the fatal unhingement of fotit
ty, the natural offspring of the accursed Revo
lution, beholds his defpajfk encrtafed by the ix
prr/Jions of a flerile pity, and'by rhoek laws,
which decree thai men Jhall pay their debts,
while the law makers well know that-thcre is
no money on the foil of the Republic ; because
they have wrung it, by the iron hand of pow
er, from the Wretched people, to emplty it to
the deJlruSion of mankind, and the depopula
tion of the earth.
" All parti of the public ftrvice are about
to fail ; Jlill the government jogs on its plun
dering, depredating courses —hunting over the
wide-spread furface of the earth, for new
feeds of enmity, hatred and discord :—as if
our difaflrout and fatal career had not already
proved a fufficient 'curse to mankind, and not
fufficiently drawn down on our heads the exe
crations of the whole earth.'*
From the Arovh
POLITICAL CONUNDRUMS.
Why is the term Federalism like Charity ?
Because it covers a " multitude of Jins."
Why is the term Jacobin like Chymiflry ?
Because it discloses the base properties of a
counterfeit currency.
Why are " Tommy Argus" and " Fool"
fynonimous terms ?
Because the latter is a quality of mind of
which the former is the representative.
In vulgaracceptatiqn thefcare fynonimous.
Why is Tommy a Jacobin ?
Because he is paid for it.
Why is the term so hateful to his ears ?
Because it reminds him of the base properties
of his own venal foul.
Why is the term Federalism so hateful,
to the jacobins in general ?
Because it renews in their minds the recol
leftion of a firm barrier to their schemes
of plunder and murder.
ANECDOTR.
A certain notary beinglately applied to
by a French functionary, for papers relative
to the estate of a deceased Citoyen, declined
the surrender, as not knowing the cha-Ac
ter of the applicant, who instantly puHed
out his pocket-book, unfolded his credent,
tials, and observed, " You are Monsieur !
I ain de Shancellor of de French Confulat
de Sharlelton, and must have de papers!"
The notary very deliberately surveyed the
funftionary's documents, and gravely re
plied—" Sir, I am fatisfied now of your
public charafter ; but as the French govern
ment have refufed to receive Mr. Pinckney
as our ambassador, so it is out of my power
to receive you."«
InfpcSors Office, 6th Sept. 1797.
' Sir,
In compliance with orders received by me
this day, you are hereby required to hold in
s to march at a moment's warning,
the -fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth classes of
the companies composing your regiment, in
order to form the body of 81 7 men from the
brigade of this city; and a3 soon as pofiible
inform me of your proceeding, that I may
make my report to his excellency the com
mander in chief. lam &e.
LEWIS NICOLAS, Infpe&or.
Inform me of the number of notices, your
regiment will require, and they Pnall be fur
nilhed without delay.
Col.' Gurney, or Officers "1
Cammanding the sth regiment, j
Mrs. G RATTAN
INFORMS her friends,and the public in genera],
that h,r house. No 191. Market-flreet, will con
tinue open during the G*!»nef>..
Board and I.odgiug in a separate room, ten
doli.ars. in a double room, eight bollaks.
For the eoriv. nifnee of thof- who
hare not thair families in town, Mrs •ratt»n
will receive jentlemen to dine at iiai.t a dollar
a ;'ay.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
A Bermuda paper of the 12th August,
contains the following paragraph !
Thursday a brig drifted up to the land
from the ea ft ward of these i (lands bottom
Up. From ier being scuttled in the bot
tom, we imagine she miift have been fell in
with at sea by some veflel. She is brought
into harbour by the boats, and has on her
item, " Atlantic of Bolton ;" (he is laden
with lumber and spars, and appears to be
a new veflel, built of birch and maple.
Whether the grew were saved or not it is
impossible for us to tell.
New York, September gth.
ARRIVED.
I Ship Mary, Battey, Havannah
v Brig James, Fitch, St. Vallery
Hetty, Robcrtfoir, South Seas
'] ■ ■ v ,v sew ■' \» •
Newburyport, September 5.
Arrived, brig Friendship, Ellis, Lisbon.
Saturday arrived brig Friendlhip, Ellis,
' 61 days from Lisbon, Ifeft there brig Vul
ture, Walton, of this port, to fa?l in seven
days.
July 29, lat. 42, 51, long. 41, 30, fpoktf
I brig Integrity, of Charlelton, bound to
London, 21 days out.
Brig Ranger, Hufe, after being taken by
an English privateer, and"cleared on paying
one eighth falvage—failed'with a fleet home
ward bound, and was again taken by a
French privateer, capt. Garrifcas, and his
crew pot on board another vefTel and sent
home. The above privateer had taken four
American vessels within 24 hours, when she
captured the Ranger. The captain of the
privateer, Garrifcan, altho' a Frenchmaa
bom, is a naturalized citizen of the United
States and has a family and property in the
United States.
Capt. Matthews, arrived at Bolton on Sa
turday last from Baltimore, fooke a few
days since, the brig Aurora, 6oulci,'from
Nevis for Kennebimk 20 days out having
ori board the crew of the brig Ranger,
Hewes, of Newburyport, which had been
captured by the French andthe crew put on
board a veflel belonging to Virginia, cap
tured and a cartel of. Besides this
crew, there were on board the cartel, the
crews of the brig Success, Rogers, of New-
York, from St. Kitt's, sloop Dependance,
of Richmoad Montague, from Antigua ;
brig Peace, Allen of New York, from Mar
tinico, all captured and carried into' Porto
Rico, for condemnation.
BALTIMORE, September 7.
This morning, precisely at 9 o'clock, at
the navy yard of Major Stodder, the build
er, was launched, the United States frigate
Constellation. The novelty of the
scene, she being the firft frigate ever built at
this port, drew forth an immense concoui%
of citizens, of both sexes, and of all ages,,
and notwithstanding the carlinefs of the
hour appointed for the launch, the number,
we are warranted in faying, was never e
qualled on any oecafion in this city. The
furface of the Patapfco was covered with in
numerable boats, and the adjacent hills, east
of Harris's creek, swarmed with infpe£tors;
and so admirable, too, were the situations
around, that every one had the pleasure of
gratifying his euriofity, without risking the
least accident.
A number of volunteers, in uniform, were
admitted on board, while others were set to
guard the yard and permit no one to enter,
; unl«fs engaged in the business of the day.—
The workmen, amounting to 200, being
thus kept iinobftiA ted, carried on their
work with such regularity and dispatch, ss
reflected the greatest credit both on themr
selves and their able conduitor. Every or
der was commiiflicated by a taffle from the
drum, and the operations of the men in
wedging ug the veflel, &c. were apparently
performed with as much and preci
sion, as the manual etfercife by a regiment
of veterans. The anxious moment noiv ar
rived—and now description is beggared.
Every thing being In the molt complete
preparations, all the bloeks taken away, e
very man from under the veflel, and the hull
standing upon almost nothing but the'flip
perry tallow, orders were given for knocking
atfay the last ftaunchion: this being done, j
file moved gracefully and majestically down I
her ways, amidst the silent amazement of 1
thousands of fpeftators, to her destined ele- ■
merit, into which she plunged with such ease
and fafety, as to make the hills resound with j
reiterated bursts of joyful acclamations.
Her plunge into the water was attended 1
with so little velocity, that she came to an
chor within ICIO yards of the shore,'' and we
can pronounce, from the authority of able
and experienced judges, that no vessel was
ever taken from the Itocks in a more fafe and •
judicious manner than the Constellation, and I
that no man, on a similar oceafion, ever ac
quitted himfelf with more honour and abili
ty than did Major Benjamin Stodder.
The Pannerihip,
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN & Company,
is diiTolted by mutual corfoHt. All perl'ona
Jpving any demands against Koufe de-.
Yred to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and :
those indebted to the Houfc are desired to mahe pay
nirnt to him—By «vhem fcuiinefs Avili in future be
carried on, at his Store, No. 39, South Front-ftrceu j
Augufll eod^w
Bank of North America,
September Bth, 1797.
OV Mondny n.st the Notitn for all Notes or )
Bilk payable fall du. onthat
aad the epfuiuu 6 dap,,will be.H-rv. dtn the Pay
ers'-/ Arid! the like Not.cos on every Vloiiday, till
the further or<itrs of the rHreftcrs—Pci son» wi{h- s
ingto depbfit Notes or Bills fin OcHeJtioM, vHiich j
are to fail due within the v'tclt, muit tf virf.ivcfi j
andertak.r to gire tmt'et r< «t»f • ]
TO BE SOLD VERT CHEAP T ;
A Light W h GGGN tlmoft new, wieli a f/ame —
and a pair of harncfi (ti gliih collars) lus n#vc'r
been ufed-i-p ice 90 Doll*.
A 1J or ft 16 hands high, seven year* e',d— and a
n»w chair, with a falling f.j>ah<i hara- fs—fao. -y
ift-'iu-e ifo. jji; MarKt-lir::t.
t'lw
X!)c (^asette*
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, S-pietJtifr it.
' ....
CITY HOSPITAL REPORTr^
From 9th to foth Septet, in the' Morning
Admitted, since lnfl report,
StufSl Ryenfullt, North Livery Stablca,
New Market.
Jacob Beacomb, Dr. Currle, *g, Pine
ftreet.
Thomas Marshall, corner Front and
Queen.
Patrick Galligher, Tent on common.
Samuel Bell, Mr. Steel's, German ftreetv
Died since last report.
Elizabeth Ellis, admitted sth igft.
Nelly Corral), sth
Samuel People, Bth
Stuffil Ryenfullt, 9 th (8 hours af
ter admifiion.)
Remaining last Report 41
Admitted,
. ' ' 46
Discharged None
Died 4 '
Remain in Hospital, j 85j
interred in City Hospital burying ground
■since last report :
From the city and suburbs 10
From the city hofpitaj 4
Total 14
Five of the sick are dangerous.
Stephen Girard,
(Signed) Caleb Lownes,
, John Connelly.
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
From th? 10th to 1 ithSept. in themorning#
Admitted since last Report*
Nancy Berry, Creffon's court, Cherry alley,
between sth and 6th street.
Leonard Brown, Corner sth and Cherry
alley.
Win. Hartoan, Mr, Bennet's Union fte et.
Sarah Deveuny, corner South and Front ftt.
Mary Haywood, Robert M* Fee's second by
Shippen street.
Majy Woodward, 16 Piae street.
David Givens, Harris's, South street.
Wm. McDonald, Tents on Common.
Wm. Silby, Brig Clarissa near Swede*
Church.
Paul Long, do. do.
James Clarke, No v l, Market street.
Daniel Rourke, Joseph Ploughman's corner
FroHt and South.
Francis Lefby, Hill's, 247, South Seeond.
Elizabeth Boyd, Durney's, biscuit baker,
comer Shippen and Second.
Jane McFarland, 50, Rao: street.
Died since last report.
Wm. M'Donald, 12 hours after admilllon. ,
Paul Long, 8 hours do.
Catharine Turner, admitted Bth
Hugh Parry, sth
Joseph Azani, 9th
Remaining last report 41
Admitted since 1 j
, V
57
Discharged none
SDied j
Remains in Hospital. | akfcent j 91 5,
In'erreJ /ince last repprt.
From city, and suburbs , jo
Hefpital
Total'' 1 g
Stephen Girard.
(Signed) iCaleb Lownes'.
John Connelly.
?? The Commiflioners appointed by th«
Governor, .MJ carry into effeit the law for
alleviating the distress of the Citizens of Phi
ladelphia, and the suburbs thereof; inform
their fellow-cjtizens, that they have attend
ed to their appointment, and now invfte
them to recommend in writing, signed by
one or more reputable inLabitant,"fuch of
the indigent as may come "to their know
ledge, who will be assisted as they may ftnnd
in need, by applying at the State-HouTe,
from 3 to 5 o'clock, on the 6th in ft. and
every second, fourth and fixtl* days of the
week, called Monday, Wednesday, and
Friday, at the fame hours, while neceflary ;
and those who want employ, may likewise
apply as above, or to either of the commif
fionersat their dwellings.
v CommjJJioners for the eity.
Robert Wharton, S. Third-street, No. X
Gecrge Krebs, N. Fifth-ftreet, No. J7.
John James, ditto No. 18.
Israel Israel, corner of Chefnut Sc Third St.
Thomas Savery, N. Fifth-ftreet, No. 20.
Edward Garrigues, 1 Cherry-street, No. 39.
Commijponert for the Northern Liberties.
Samuel Wheeler, Wne-ftrtet, No. 99.
John Wagner, Noble-street.
George lnglis, New Market-street.
Commissioners for Sovth-cvari.
Samuel Church, corner South 8c Water St.
William Lennard, South Second-street.
Robert M'Mullen, Swanfon-ftrcct.
Philadelphia, September 5, 1797.
The Health-Office
IS removed to the City-Hall, and is kept open
night and dr.y, wl.cre persons having b'.fin, ft may
apply- Wm. ALLEN, H(,a!ch-Ofticer.
Sept. 4. dtf
Post Office, September 1797. >
Cr3" The Post Office will i»e removed tor
morrow at 3 o'clock, P. M. to Mr. Dun'
lap's Coach house, 12th ftreet,bet ween-Mar
ket ar.d Chefnut street, where merchants and
others Will jneafe to fend for theirlett-rs, is
the letter carriers during the continuance cf
the present prevailing fjsksels will co> be
sent out. ,mi dollars iiwjk&
R .\away from the fubfcri'ier, an indented r ,
Servant Ghl, turned Naxc* *m>ta»ON, a- J'
W'.t twenty yraro of age, fto't, thi-.k let ptifon,
t.'u kl-iitr *, had on when ihevrrht away, A
adark fU'ico'gdwtt, an old l fi'k cloak, and a
bhek fur li4f° Wfcoever wil! lUcre fai 1 girl, ami j
vive intimation thereof to t!*e fubferibeij No, 2, i
•jCirctwe f alley, cr to the «slice of this Gazet'e, tb
frail ree"ive the above reward. _ _ dii
All per fans are forbid harboring (aid girl, as tr:
thev w ill he dealt with as the law drreib Tl
MARY ANDERSON, f
N. B. Said Girl is from Ireland, and has been i«
tins country out a ihort time ; Ihe wash nt to the
\vcrk-houfe for mifcondutf, u here iuc was taken
sick and removed to the city-hofpiul, fto® which
r.Jace (be made her ef^apc.
30.
" To be fold at Public Vendue,
Tothe' highed bidder, at the house ef Mr.
William Efar.s, the sign of the Indian
Queen, in the,city of Baltimore, -n the »s' l »
day of Oiilober next, at II o'clork, A. M
. About feveTi thousand acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
]y( n r, between Rfifter's-town and Westminster,
commonly called Litflc Winchester, (the turn
pike road runs through a . onfidsrab f part of
these lands) the traft begin.) about 17 m:les
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
of £)id Keifkr's tov-'li, <!nd extend, to the dis
tance of. absot twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and lies on the main falls of Patapfico j
river, from three to four miles therenn. Will ;
be fold in tra&s of one hundred and fifty to |
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
-1 tion of meadow and wood land on each tratsl,
some of iheni highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine grifs.
AISO I
A'traft" of seven hundred acres of r
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of „
P'adrnlhirg, efieemed very good for Grass, j,
•Richard Poufonby, of Bladenfbuigh, will Ihew d
this land to any person inclined to purchale. I 1;
also, «
A' tratt of land of about three hun- j g
dred and thirty acres, within about two nules
ard a half o the President's house in the Fede- _
ral .City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fire ,
high profpefl, fron. which may be It eft the j
city of Washington, Bladenlburgh, Alexandria ,
an'd a part of George-town, and m ny miles!
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Por.fon-
by 1 , erf Bladen (burg, will also fiaetf this land. ]
' A liberal credit will be give* for the gieaUft | j
pajrt of the purclnfe money, jhe terms will t
be made known on the day ef lale. s
Mav 8 M '- m - c
£
J'uft Received, |
Prom Batavia (via Prorii'ence)
a few Bolts of Spices, confining cf
Nutmegs, Clovesand Mice
For sale by
H ILLINGS & FRJNCIS,
Penn flreet. {
«ay 3® def
"Vai'ts's Law Book Store, ,
No. 319, I/rgb-Strcet.
OEURGi; DAVIS, ;
BUNC busied for foiTie lime 1 aft ia prepira- j
t.-ons sos removing into h s protent houf., has |
been unde: thcn'ecel%yof roftp ninguusil this day ,
informing thegenthmen oithc fitrgenerally thra 1
the (Isited States, that his tyring importation of ,
law books is now arranged and reaJy for lale, on
t arms that he trulls will entitle him to the like pre
fHeucs he has e*oerieneed for lev ral yaars pa^.
Catalogues, the mo.l v>ir:ed eollec
tion evfr imported Ut® this country, are printed
aud will he delivered on applicatiijii.
]une IT. aaw 6w
City Comm 'tJfiGners Office,
Jut:: 12, 1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the l'eledl
a:id common cmincils, the nd day of
May tall, appointing the city commlflioners,
and preferring their dutic», 9th,
NOTICE 18 HEKEBY GIVKN,
That the city is divided into five ditlriffs,
eadi to be urnltr tbe fuperinteiidanrc of one of
the city comnliffioners, « hois to he individually
relpotifible for the cleanliiufs of the fam-, and
sie a»"follow.
Driftriifl No. t. Prom the south fide of Ce
dar-Arret, to the northftfide of Spruce flreet, un
derthe fuperister.dence of Nathan Biys.
t. From tbe north fid- of Spruce-lifeet, to
the north fide of Walnut-ftreet.uuder the fupet*
intendence 'if Hugh Roberts,
3. From the north fide 1 f Walnut to the Couth
) -si of H'gh-ftreet, Under the fuperintendenee of
Joseph Claypoole.
4. Fr m the north fide of High-street, tothe
north fide of Mulberry flreet, under the fuper
jjiteudence ( f William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberry ftrtet to
the north fide of Vine-flreet, under the fuper
intendenee of Njiholas Hiekt-
The cleaningof High-ftrcet fro be in eom/non.
i-y A slated nrifeting of ihe city commifTion
trs~ is held at the '"'ld Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening ato'clock
Ji.lv 14, eoim
Stands far Draymen, lye.
In fnirfnitncfof an Ordinance from tbeSelefl anil
Common Cmrteilt,hearing date tbe zzd day of
jtfri!, 1797, providing fir the appoint me.U of
City Commijffionerj, ive. HeS- tbi i;U>.
r pun following places are fixed upon by the
X said City Commiffionern for Stands fir
Praymtnand their ttorfes.
In-Yine-llreet, eaitward of Front-flreet, on
both fides.
Saflafras, High, Cheftjut and Walnut (hreets,
eaflward of Frjnt-flreet, on th« no. tb fide only.
Mulberry-street, south ' fide frem Front tj
Thii-d-flreet.
Front-lire**, eafl fide from Vine-flrcet to
Elrrith's alley.
Front-llrect, from opposite to Black Ilorfe al
ley to Hamilton's llores, eafl fide.
Waler-flreet, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Moore's stores to Pine-Mieet.
Penn-ltreet from Pine to Ce-lar-flreet, weft
fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, tiflof Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South flreets, eall of Frost
flreet, fo-'th Me.
Dock-ftrect, between Walnut-flj-ect and the
fiag ftot.e croffiugs, calt f.de, oppofitc George
Oik'ev's.
Second-street, between SafTafras and Vine
ftre'tf, weflfide.
Fiftl. flreet, eafl. fide from Chefiiiit to
berry ftteets.
SntTafcss-ftreer, from. Third to x'ourth-Areet,
eafl fide. ■ l■ ,• ,
No dray cr liorfe to ft and within ten feet of
in lr™jbs FOR HACKNEY- CQJCIW.
Pin.-ili'cet, north fide from Fourth to i-ifth
FiUh-flrcet, betweea Ghef.iat and Walnut
fireets, weft, , . , , t- ■ v„„ ,
Bianch-ftreet, jioitUl.iie,be.wcew l.i.rJano
Fourth ftteets. .
July 14. ir.w.-.r-m
A Literary Treat.
Jvfi pttliybril, hanJfonuty printed on writing
paper, price 1 dollar,
\ new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, entitled
_ P"HF. FORESTERS, ail American TMe ; being
*. a f?quel to the hiliory of John Bull, ihe Clo
tMer, In afci iesof letters to a triand, with the*d
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political
tran(«<ftions in America.
Thii following extraA from the Clavis AlUgorita,
(hews the principal chara>sters that arc imroiuetJ:
John Bull, the Kingdom of i ng'.and
His Mother, «heCturchof Engbr.iJ
His Wife, the Patliame.it
Hi« Siller Peg, the Chuich of Scotland
His Brother Patriik. Ireland
I.ewis, t+ie K'ngdoni of Tranct
His Mistress, the Old CoinVitulion
His B«w Wife, the Naiinnal Rojirefentation
Lord Strut, the Kinpdo:>i of . ;>.iin
f'ichohi Krojr, the Dutch Rfpti' lie
The Franks, the Trerch Repuoiic
The Faxefters, the United Ktatesof Am»ri(*
Robert Lumber, New-W:.mplhire to
John Codliue, Ma.Tachufetts 33
Humphrey Plowlhare, ConneSicut
Roger Carrier, Rhode l!land JO
Peter' Bull Frog, New-York --
Julius Caesar, New-Jersey
William Broadbti is, Pennsylvania tit
Cafiimar, Delaware th.
Walter Pipewood, Virginia bu
His Grandson, George Walhington
Peter Pitch, North Carolina mi
Charles Indigo, Soutk Carolina he
George Ttu ',y. Georgia el;
Ethan Gr.-cdwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky ch
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves W
Rats, Speculator, lei
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins fqi
.Jj - This popular and entertaining satirical liifio- j tw
ry of Amuiica is attributed to the Uev. L)r Bkl- fjb
KNAr. It hasa great (h re of originality and a- w |
bounds with genuine humour. It is continued th
down to the pre'fent time, aud chsra&crifv's thc4e L (
: late political »raofaHions which have caused lo be
much uiieaCnel's .n America. in
Sold by 'H. and P, RICE, Bookseller, No. 16, t h
South Second Street, and No. JO, Marke* ftaeet. be
June »6. 5
LAW BOOKS, ~ «
Latefl London and Dublin Editions.
H. £ff P. RICE, Booksellers,
I No. ii, Sjoth Setond, and No. 50, Market flreet, b
HAVE jufl received hy the hte arriva s from <3
l.on.'ou and Dublin, theii Ipriug imports- ai
tion, confiftingof a variety of the Uteft and molt
approved 1 aw Book*, whicV added to those alrea
dy on h&ad, forms the moftcxtcnfive colleAion ev
er offered for fa'e in thi country. They thei«ifore
be» leave to that Irom the nature of their
connr&if ns in Dmilin, th«y are enabled to fell Irish
editions (as tl*ey have hicherto done) at tbr very f<
lowed prices The following arc among the latctt o
publications. a
Vefey,, juu*ri Reports in Chancery, 2 t
Peakc's Calt» at Nisi Prius ; Ridpewcy's \<t*ort« t
in the time of Lord HardwickiC ; Moyer's Procters I
Pradice in the Ecclefiartical Counts ; Barton s I
Trcatife on a Suit in Equity ; Ticid's Pra&ice of <
the Court of King's Bench in Pcrfonal Adlions, 1 f
p<irt» complete ; VVard's of Nation* ; Cruise 1
on Ufcs ; modern Reports, h vols. Loudon edi- 1
, tion. *
H. and P. Rici cip«£l ta receive by the firft ar- i
n* I from New-York the 6th vol. complete of I
! Durnford and East's Reports, the ad part of Gi!- 1
.' berths Law of Evidence by Loit, and a number of
new publications. 1
]unt 16.
The History oFPennfylvania,
By ROBERT PROIJD,
Ig now in the prefi, and will be published,
with all convenient expedition, hy Z>-CHA^
- UTAH Poulson, jun. No. Bi, Ciiei'qut-Ureet,
Philadelphia, where l'ubfcriptions will continut
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library, I
according to the printed pmpofali, until the
. woi kis ready for thefubtcriliero.
July 18. eawtf
1-rintcci Calicoes.
/
f JOHNMI I, LF. It, Jun. Sc Co.
r No. 8 Chtft. Ui treet,
1 Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS Heatly allortcd, very low on
. Ihcrt crtdil.
March 6. §
j Richard and james Potter
HAVE removed tkeir Counting House to Ho.
45,8001!' Fifth-ftrcet.
Lj uguft 2. W&f6t
Larua'ter, Harrijburgh C.itlijle,
e So.ppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
0
.. >"T"HE public are rcqueiled to take notice, 7hat
L the partnerlhip which has for some time sub-
GiKd between Mathias Slough ol Laniufter, and
_ William Geer, it now diiTolved • b*t, not as M.
Slough infmuitesto ihe public without just eaufe ;
-.swill niore fully appur by a letter on the fub
y:6t from M. Slough to AV. Geer, dated'the 19th
December last a recital of which is not nnw deem
ed necedary. Any gentleman who wiihes to be
I more circumstantially informed of the merits of
,s this business, hy applying to W. Geer may have
• the perusal ef'M. SloughV letter, and then can be
V at full liberty to determine whether or rot W.
Geer is not p:rfei£liy joSlflable in attaching him
,c felf to any other person in the rrofecution of the
ir Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
ln N'oW from th« liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firlt effort id
s > this bufiuefs, Vfilliam Geer, in conjunftion with
y- Meflrs. Reily, V/ecf and Wi'mer, is determined
to to prosecute and carry it on, wirh every care, at
cention""anddifp?.tch that a ical to oblige the pub
to lie can po!Sbly exert.
The above company, who ire amply provided
il- with carriages, horses, and every appurteuance to
render tlje passage fafe aud commodious, inform
of j thofir wffo wilh to patronise and encourage thp
undertaki-g, that they can take their feats as
.ft George Weed's, the f:gn o! the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, every Monday
and Friday, to proceed, to Lancailer, Harrifburg;
Catlifle and aWppenfburg. The fare as hitherto
eftabiilhed.
For the further accommedation of the public,
a Stage will ft nt every Wedticfday from the house
of Samuel F.lder, in Harriiburg, arrive at Sur
-1 bury in Northumberland C9uuty, every Thuriday,
n * and return frem thcoce ar.d arrive Et Hauiiburg
rvei j Sg;nr>iay, so" that paffcftgurs defiined for
J" J.ancaltcr or Philadelphia, n.ay proceed o« Mon
:t, Jiys ' ; WILLIAM GEER.
J.ancaftt.r. Jan. 21- i"97.
°t N. li. This Line at Stages Ilarte from tlu
house of William.. Fcrrwe, in Lancallei , cn every
Tuefdoy and Saturday vroruii g at 6 o'clock; pro
'ih ceedir.? to the weftwartl; and from the house ef
Mr. Sair.ucl £ldar i:i Harriftu';, every Wedcef
ui day me.rning, .on the fame ev uing arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and return*
3d f: or.i thence cn every ThurSday : performing the
fame ipu.i;ie daily a, hi its tour frett l'-hiJidel
uliia. aiv.f
Citv of v- uSungton.
I i'l
SCHEME-
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Imf>ra%>ermt '/ 1 ~''' r ' >L Ctiy.
A '2 ao.ocoooHji-b,
3c cash ;..0,000, arc' 50,000
1 ditto ij.ooo & Ciflu 15>°0'3 40,0014
1 ditto n,ooo & rath 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & ci'.b 10,000 10,000
1 flit to 5,000 cjfti 5, 1, 00 10,000 x<
I ditto 5,000 & cafti 5.000 io,doo
„i cash prize of 10,000 j
1 do. 5,000 each,ire • 10,000 J
ic do. j - - 10,000 ;
30 do. 500 • - lii.oon ■*"
06 j'?. 100 - - io,Oi;o | W (
joo do. jo - - io.ooo
400 do. J5 - ■ 10,000
«,*X)o do. jo , - io,ooe 1 ; ni
- 158,000 z ~
id,7.59 Pritei. l»c
iSUnits. dr
jo,ooo Tickets, at Eight BolUri, 400,000 Bi
N. B. thofewho may tike a Quan
tity «! Tfickets, -.he prize of 40,000 dollar* will be
«he last drawn ticket, aad the 30,000 the last
but on z I s
And approved notes, securing payment ic either
mbevy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received foi any number not less than 30 tick
ets. 1
This Lottery will afford a:i elegant fpecimeffcf
the private buildings to be erected in the City of
\Vafcin»ton—Two bfautlful designs ate already
leleitcd for the entire fronts on two of the public „
squares; from these drawing- it irpropofed toereci.'
two cc.it re and f ourcor«er bsildingt as fooc aspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventures, ia S<
thj manner described in the fch«nic for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett dedufiion of five per cent, will
be made to defray the nccrffary expenses of print- /
ing, &e. and the furpfuf will be made a p«rt of
the fund intended for the National UniverEty. to f,
be etecled within the city of Vj'afhingtou. c[
The real foT tfce payment of the j (
Priies, ire held hy the President and two Direct
ors of the.3o::k cf Columbia, and are valued at j g
more than half the amount ol the lottery. e ,
SAMUEL 11L0DQKT. a ,
4 §, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colsm
fcit ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Fetcr
Oilman, bollon ' of Joh» Hopkins, Richmond ;
1 wid of Richard Walls, Cooper'aFerry.
mwf j P
From tie Otfrgo Herald. J5
CAUTION. I;;
WHEREAS a combination of men in thU m
county have undertaken to enrich thin.- 1/
selves.by fabricating titles tofundry valuable traiS# )i
,of lar.d, Mi 4 picperty of gentlemen living in New c
York, Philadelphia, London and I'arls, for which v
tr»A. of Und larg- funis of money have been paid f<
to these fraudulent men, by innocent purchasers • 1
It ii therefore iufk tint public information (hotdd 1
le given, to the end, that the injured may feet re- 1
dress while the men have property, »nd arc to be (
found. Thoibwho have been discovered are Tru- (
ihjb liarrifou, Jufeph Witcomb, said now to re- (
fide in the eounty of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly ar.d (
several othen .yho go under fiiiitioiis names. 11 is (
fuppol'ed that the lands offered ft r fait on those fa- (
bribed titles, are at least worth fifty thousand <
dollars. Such a» we have aflual knowledge of are 1
as follows : Li.ts No. II and 11, Otfegw potent, I
thousand acres each, the aitua! property of William
Dellw> 11, now of London ; lots No. and 64. 1
fame patent, thousand Ecres each, the property of 1
Mr. Chaumoht, now of Paris, and anus Averill
and others, ol this State. There is some grounds j '
to suppose that the lands of Richard Wells and
[ Cliarles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their • J
nianagcipc:.t. —The Printers will do well to give
1 this a place in their papers, as well to eai.: on the ;
public againtt ptu-thj£ng those lands, as alfe to de- !
[ priv.: thofc men in future from imposing on indivi
duafs, which their education and addrels have en- |
abled them to do heretofore. Witcomb has been
a ihopkeeper of some note in this country.
1 he following affidavits will fft in a clear point
of view thv wickedness ol thefc ir.en,which whsn
the public have pcruftd, will induce them to cx
cufe the interference of . Wu. COOI'ER.
Otfego, July 28th, 17; 7.
I l'homas Kelly, Of the County of Otfego, liav
; ing been led into an error, by John Witi.onih and
Truman Harrifon, of the fame County 1 , to sign a
deed to them, for lot No. 58, O fego patent, which
was the property of Willi '.m T Franldin now Mr.
Chamont's and others; and further the said Joseph
and Truman did persuade me to do this aga** it my
'* inclination, which was made out on the luth day
of November, 1793, or set back two years so as
to bring it to that time ; and further the n . Tll3 ol
Pardon Starks to that deed was a hA.tious uamts,
, thfre being no fnch perlon there. To this I make
voluntary oath. THOMAS KELLY.
19th J«!y, 1797.
On the :9th July, 1797. came psrfonally before
me, Thomas Kelly, the iubfenber to the above af
at £ davit, and made folenin oath thatit contains notli
-- ing tut ch truth.
id 1 LIHU HIINNEY, Jufticc of tile Peace.
1. On the 18th July, 1797. oantebefore me Jacob
■ ; Kibby, a pterlon by me well known and worthy of
t- good credit, who on his folcinn oath did lay, that
1 "t«o«f the parties abovementioned did make ap
i- plication to 1 ini this deponent, some time in tho
'e winter of 1796. to make them a deed for two thou
of sand acres of land iu the Otcgo patent, and pro
'e mifed this deponent a share of the profit 1 , on the
>e sale of fiid lands, for his so doing ; andth t they
V. made application several times for the fame purpo e,
a- which fsrvices this depofier.t as often refufed, de
ie claring to thani that he had no right to lands, and
if- could do no such tiling ; which during attempt on
this deponent's integrity he had related a*rong his
Se friends' several times, previous to miking tins ath
in davit JACOB KISBE^.
th Sworn before me,
ed EI.IHU PHINNEY, Justice of the Peace,
it Aug. t. J*'v-)w.
b ' , 1 hirty Dollars Reward.
cd T?LOPED from the lervice of the fubfrriber,
to J_J on the 19th indant, a negro ,n.an by the
m nameof DICK, about twenty-five years of age,
and five feet nine or ten inches high ; by trade
r'» a earpentei, and is a very lively brisk wo.k
fei man. flh countenance is very good—-When
ay spoken to, lie converl'es with eale and eon'fi
rjfl denee, ar.d is pretty ligatious. I pnrchal'cd
:t0 the fjill fellow of Mr.Dubr.ey Minor, in vvhofe
name he has been advcrtifeil in the Richmond
lc ' newfpaperi. During his lalt runaway trip (lait
summer) he was employed a confidecaible length
in * of time, by forne perfoti nev Dumfries, from
which circtlmflance, I conjedlure, he has taken
: 1? another nothei 11 route 1 torewann all pcrfons
" r from giving him emplcyirent, of any kind
whatever, and mafttrsof veirelsand othcvs, iroin
carrying him out ol this Hate. Ihe above re
ward will be given if he is taken within forty
. miles of th:s city; and an additional (am, in
* proportion 10 the distance he may be brought,
,J_ or the trouble and expence the apprehender may
•[ be at ' in bnngins I,im 10 tM A P UG; DAVIS.
■a - N- B. His apparel w.is of the usual negro kind,
-tn but he had. more cloatbs than is customary for
lie them to pofltia.
el- y
P.ichtaoadj Jans ii) 17^7*
WilK'oc l.aadeil,
Fi'om onboard the Ifjip Atftivt, Ca\>t.Si air/ro:u
F'lniliu rgh,* * •
10 bales white Xuflia cieau Hemp L.
2 caus Clover Seed .
l : or Salt by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth firtct, No. 34.
T "nc i<>- ; au
William Blackburn, ««,
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICF "<
No. 64 south Second-Ilreet. k ;
in the Canal Loucfy, No. 11, which ' si ,
1 commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR 4t ,,
SALE. The price of tickets will rife ic propor- < ( ,
lion the dr iwing- advar.aei, particularly on ac- <<
count of the five firft drawn ticke'.s, prizes of a
four thousand dollar# cadi, on the l&H day ot ti
drawing. u
Check Books kept for examination and regifier- 44
ing, in the Canal, No. City oiWafliington, No. (t
a, and Pater foe Lotteries.
Also, tickets forfajein the SchuylkiUbndo-e and (i
Perk.omen Bridge lotteries, . which wiU begin t<
drawing in the couife ps the summer,
'i'he bufmefs of a Broker i:i ali kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, "&c- yic. trailfa(sied vvich the
utmost attention#
June a a S
Erfiiine's View of the War. J,"
JUST PUBLISHED, in
By ROBERT CAM?3BtL & Co.
l\ T o 40 Sou'h Second ftrcet,
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes and Confequen- ~
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May 15 § (1
STATE TRIALS, j I
Said by W.yovaa, Boolfeller, No. s>, South Se- | tr
conl-llrect, 1 tl
The Pennsylvania State Trials, j *
COHtaining the impenchraert, and acqwit- | K
al of Francis Hopkinfon, Judge of the Court ol tt
Admiralty, and John Comptroller Gen- tt
cral—ln 01:# large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3 4l
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general afiortmentof
1 Books* Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack-
ege, well and entitled to ihe drawback if
axpwted. x JuJy 7*—*
—: r : —: ' * et
rHE SUftSCRISER having be«?n appointed by £[
the Envoy iLxticordinary ar.d MiaUUr Pleni
i poier.tiaiy of his Britannic Majcfly, General .sgent
i loraflifting Eritilh crrditors, ar.d such particular ■-
i gents a« thay may aurhorias, in ptofeeuting |
j their claims be.orethe c«mniifliontrs for curryia
i tg eft'eft the lixth arlick o( the Treaty of Com- <
mcrceavd Navigation l-eta'Cfn fus Hi {tannic ■- ujtjly ai:d r
the l/ni&d Uates of' hereby notice kfc&t
he has opened his office honfe the south call h
corner of Chefnut and fifth Philadelphia, n
where he is ready to teccive aW claims or iftitruAioos | t ]
for claims with ihe vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the purpose 'ot bringing torwgurd the fame
ably so the rules and orders which the board may
think propq- to prescribe.
And as it will be tor the imereft of all concerned,
that the several claims be lo Uated, anil support. t
cd, as to prevent the delay which would arise trom f
thr neceffuyof obtaining further information, or ad- j
diuonal materials,from pei lons residing at a distance, t
1 I the general ageot thinks it his duty to add, (lor the ,
diic«kion chiefly of thofc, who, not having employ (
ed particular agents, may leave the profecutiou of
their claims to his charge and management) thct all
such claims ought io particularto set forth—
-1 I Ift. The proper dcfcripyon and titnation of the •
•coditor or claimant, end original debtor, refj e&-
ively,
ad. The date andnature of the original contractor
• ; debt.
When, in wk&t manner, and to what extrnt,
; the creditor or claimant w>.s prevented or impeded,
by the provision, operation or of law, the 1
| decifionsand praftice ot couns, or teftraint of exe- I
« cution, from recovering payment of the debt in j
queOion,
4»h The loss and damage incurred or sustained, j
in c jiifequeuce of lucli iinpedimcntj, wh«ih«i ihe ,
1 fame m«y have anfen flora the infolveney, change of
fituatioo, or death ot the aebior, the loft ol legal
t remedy fiom laple of time, or ochercaofet impa'iiog
1 the value and Ictunty ol :«<; debt, which wouio not
- have (o oftratcd if such impedimenti had notexilled.
Andi'h Tbi partitulargioonds and rcafOßs on
which the «laini»..t mainiaiiu, in ttc terms of the
treaty, thu " by the ordinary courf* ol judicial pin
j have and raceive full and adequate compensation" for
l the loUes a.d dacaag.s foru(laiu«d.
The ger.eraiageiu mink, it hit doty fuither to fug
/ tbi.t the several claim,
and supported by the affidavits of the claimants do')
fworn and regularly attellcrt, both as to theetiHeocc
y of tbe debts claimed. Mid Cach othtr eircumll ncta
'* as raay be within their own knowledge reipt&ively.
'f And whercv«r the claimants in Sating the *aiuie of
', chair evidence (which mull in every inftar.ee be the
■e boftot which the cale is capablrj have or<-afien lo
reler to the tellimouy of w.tnelfes, it will be propel
to apprifetbc geneial ag«ntof the names ana pi,mm
■c of relidence of Inch wit,i/ffei and tbe fa&sto bc efta
t- blifhed by their teflimmiy.
1- Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia. T'inf Bth, nq7- d
,b For Sale,
'f That ivt'l known place, tailed Vji.DZQRiTT's
>l HIIT,
3 " Nefhaminy creak, 18 miles fr6m Phih
-10 \J ladtlphia, on the New York port road,
J ~ contiining 74 .teres and 94 perches. Upon the
3 " ptemifea are a large two llei y flar.e houlie o:cu-
f 1 " pied asatvern, and a good otic story fionekit-
J chen, a large frame stable with a good threihing
floor, and some out buildings—alio a well of
IC I good water, and an excellent ice House. On
, n this place is a most elegant fiiuation fora gentie
ii, tnm's fcit, commanding a view »f the N'efham
h- irv 10 its juiiiilion wiih the and thecce
aoroli to the Jersey shore. It has the privilege
of one half the uillreceived from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Sabfcribcr,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
T> COLUMBIA. HOUSE
he Boarding School for young Ladies. ■
e, -« T RB. GK.OOMBRIDGE with moch pleaf
de jYI lire and refpefl, returns her lincere ac
knowlcdgement for the liberal encourage meat
en she has received during four years residence ik
ri " Philadelphia; and aiTures her friends and the
ed public, so ffr from intending to decline her
IVhool, Ihe !.*> made a fupenor arrangement for
the more convenient acconlmodztioti of her
scholars.—Every branch ot ufeful and polite
educatisnis particularly attended to by Mrs.
m Groombridge and masters excelling in their
:n refpeilive profeflions.
a,i Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
nd June jth, 'i 797. J imW
" n The situation is perfeilly healthy ; aWmade
L " more agreeable by an cxteufive gardeD and lot
'y of ground adioining the 'joule.
)'t! JuJl Publijhed,
a 35 And to he had of Messrs. DoVfon, Camplell.Rice,
Cary, and the ether pricipal Bookfciier, in the
city,price one dollar, twiiity-five cauta.in boards,
! d - New Views of the Origin of the
or Tribes and Nitions of America.
By BENiAMI!; iI.TiTH BARTOW, m. a.
T * At
Juni, ao.
Nc. 183.
£ss?s. of hnxfyhcnL,:-, vU :
us . pE IT ItfiMIi&BEXEB. that on <1„
fifteen* b day us Julie, in the twenty
Qrfl year of the'independence bt" the United
.States of America, Jam i s W&miiause, of
the said di.'iridl, hath depciitcd in thijoffice the
title Gf a book, the right whereof he claims a»
author, in the words following, to wit :
" The Youn» Chetnift's Pocket Companion,.
f bein;: a Ddcription of a Portable Laboratory,;
" containing a Philofophic.il apparatus, and a
" great number of Cheniic.il Agents, by which
" any person may perform an ewdlcfs variety of
" amufifig and inltnidling ExptViments.defijftt
" cd lor the use of ladies and gentlemen, and
" intended to promote the cultivation of the
" Science of Chemistry in the United (States of
" America. By Jami s Wocdhouse, M. D.
" PiofeCbr' of phctriftry, in the Uhivefßty of
" Pennsylvania, Prrfidtnt of the Chemical So
" ciefv of Philadelphia, &c.
" At present everything that is not denoml
" nated Chemistry, is but a small pait of a fyf
" tem of natural kn^'.vledge.
Prie/ily on Air "
In conformity to the a£l ofthc Coiigrefit of the
United States, intitiled, " An a<Si for the encour
agement of L'earning.by fecuringthe copies of
maps, charts, and bgoks to the authors and pro
prietors of such copies, during the times there
in mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWFI| (I Clerk of the
JDiftrifl of fennfylvania.
July 18. d^t —wstf
• No. 188.
: JD'iflr'iS of Pentifylvania % to iv'tt :
' (l. O U that on tllc
| 13 twenty sixth day of Juiy\ in thetwen
- ty second year of the independerce of the United
i States of America, John Fenno, of the said dii~
• tri&,hath depcfited in thVofSfcc thefitle of a book,
| the right vAtreof he claims as proprietor, in the
I -words following, to wit :
1 " Ohfervations on certdia documents contained
• " in No. V. and VI. of 44 The Hiltpry of the Unit--
" ed States for the year 1796," in which the charge
" of fpcculation, against Alexander Hamilton, late
41 Secretary oi the Treasury, is Ailly refuted—
-11 .Written by himfelf."
In eoi'fofnaity to the aA of the Corgrcf* of the
Ucked State*, enrituled, 4i An a A for the encour
agement of learning, by fceuriii£ the copies of
majH, chartsand books to au.hors aotf propri
etors of such copies, during the tunes tberciu men
tioned."
SAfaUEL CALDWELL,
CUrL i>f tlx Dijlr 'ifl of Ttntifyluania,
Tulv lj. \w4\v
Public Notice is hereby given,
T->HATat June term, 1797, a petition wa*
presented to the Court ol" Cnmmoti Pleas,
held it Ysrk Town,, in the State of fennfylva
nia, at the infhnce ®f James Short, praying
the Court to supply a loft deed made by a <er
tain Andrew Hickerdubet, to Hugh Moriifon,.
James Morrifon, and John bamD'ei executors
to Hans Morrifon, deceased, fm si* hundred
aeres of Land, fitmte in Memllen
tuwnfhip, in the county of York :—All per.
sons *ho have any objections to tn. ke to theob*
je& of the iSid petitio* are desired to attend at t
the Court Mouse, in the town of York, on the
.sth day of September next, other wile the loft
deed wilL be supplied.
JOHN EDIE, CVk.
July 18. <*•<• V
-. ■■—- .... ■
30 Dollars Reward.
* »
R.AN away on Saturday last, two indented Ser
vants, Gif Ford Oally, a mulatto boy aboutj7
years of age, a slim light built adhve fellow, can
read and write,five feet fcfen or eight inches h*jh,
has a heavy countenance) ha I on i f uftian coatee
i aud trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine shoes See.
Allan Heljona, ajblack in an. aL-out 24 ymats vf
> age, fire feet seven or eight iurhts high a ihiek fe<
: dunfy built fellow, particularly ai>outthe breech;
1 had on a sailor's blue jncVvft lined with fwar.flvin,
1 dark striped vest, fuftian tio\vfcr«, high, crowi.od
' hat, coarse lhoes, icc.; each of tJiein had iisvtfral
1 fliirtsand several other cloathe's with them. rl'hir
ty Dollars wiil be paid for the runaways or r 5 dol
lars for each, and reasonable charges, on delivering
_ them at No. 54, North Thir<J-fueet.
The black fellow is abofct a year from Lewis
r Town, in the Couiity of Sussex, state of Dela
ware, and has taken the toy with him.
July 31. mtn&^w-
J To be SOLD
A LARGE 3 Story Brick f'oufe, on the
; s 2~\. SoUth lide of Filbert street, between
,j Eighth and' Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
;e veyor General's OfEcc.
0 The Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet def r>,
:i the lot no feet deep, with the privilege of 1 nine
• feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
5 " the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
to turn in. The Haufe is not jlaftered, and
may be turned either into cr.e, or two *1 .veiling
Houl'es. It is luitable for a large Manufactory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
> pcfilihon will be given.
1 Apply to No. in, Chefnut-Slreet.
Aug. n. cod4t.
a- .
i: Muftcal Injlrument Manufactory,
* i " No. 16", Arch Strtet.
t T T ARPES., hnrpfuhord,grand, portable gravd,
ii f«d:-board, pier table and fquaie piaj.o for A
' maki r frcna London, returns ti ar.ks to his iriends
and the public, for their liberal cncouvagerrn nt,
11 aj.dhcpesthat by his iffiduity and awuiiin toev
e" ery lirfciichof his bufueft, to rrerit a c.Mi niaace
ri " of their favcrs. Piano f&rtes made on thrjiewJt
ce and moll approved plins, with pedali, p rent,
fwcll, and French harp stop, whrch heti tteis
himfelf will u e found cn trial by unprejudiced
judgts.to be equal if cot luperior to any imprrfr
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any iut'i u
aunt purchaled wl him, il Kot approved of jii
twelve mooihs, he will exchange.
N. B. Ail hin'U of Mtij'-al inSruments madr,
S. uned, and rep.lirec with the gteateft acciu'a(y v
if- d fpatch, and <»n the molt reasonable turn-, Kf
[C- ready money only.
B t Second hmd Piano Forte, talen in c-change. '
; K May ic . Sclr.i.
er Forty Dollars Reivard.
or |") AN away from the tubfe'riber oii'tlie fee,
,er on d day of thio inlt. July, a Mulatto .V,an,
lte nanud Will Gewzer, ibout iort/years of age,
r f- live J"eCt leveii or.--eight inches high, rather
elr chunky made ; had on when he went awcy, a.
di al) colored cloth coat, llriped purple trowfjis
and j.acket. It is probable he will change his
cloathes, as he toe* a number with h>m. 'I lie
laid ftl'ow formtriy belonged to Mr- Charles
' ot lihke of this place ; ar.d it is expected he
maye- towards Jones's Netk, in the Delaware
btate. —Any person apprehending the feid tal
low, and securing him so that I can get him a->
gain, laall receive the above reward if taken
'twt of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
the coun'y, and all reasonable charges if bro't
2 2 hcfcie.
JESSE REED,
Queen Arnj't County, Maoism 1 ,
J«'y 3. .. ' w iV