0 f t i )S Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
t
tSIUM.IZZ 1630J
SALES BY AUCTION.
ctjtcd Sales
For DR r GOO DS. «
f FoftSndon —Edward Fox, No. s<j,
,r' j ,) fotith Front-flreef, -i
' Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65 j
(_ South Front-iirtet. J
f' Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City t
) Auehon, No. 73 foiu'h front-ftreet.
' J J J Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
1 183 Hig'a-flreet.
N °""'
rh'Mr* I Forenoon—Edward Fox.
J " ( Afternoon—Jrbn Connelly.
■p. ■ , ? Forenoon—William Shannon.
" " ) Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benton. ,
To be fold at ths Merchant's Cos- '
see-House,
ON the tenth day of December next, at 70' I
clock in the evening, one 9ertain bond or
obligation oat ?d July j5, 179figned by John 1
Loye of Alexandria for himfrlf, Joliah Watson j
and Samuel Virginia currency,!
payable on the 31 ft of tail paft,to Stock- '
Icy Doneifon or his aßigns—which Bond the j
IV.id Doneifon assigned' to J-imes Grant, under
vr'hcfe power «*f attorney this fjle will be made. j
F»r further particulars app-iy to the .fubferiber.. j
FOOTMAN and Co. |
\ Nov. :8. dtrptbd
Sale of an, elegant Country Seat\
a t a°u c t 1 <Jn.
On Wednesday evening next, the iail. at
' the Merchant Cof&t-heufe,
WILL BR SOLD,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain. )
ing 6 and 4c perches, v;itll,a neat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, a# apple 1
Orchard, &c. Swate 011 the ftilh tra& lane, in the '■
to\vr*hip cf Moyamsofmjj, about one mile from
the c.fy cf Philadelphia,. Further particulars will 1:
be nnde known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette, or at the Auclion Room
of t£fffub£cric#r.
The improvements upon this place, for taftc and
tl. ; >uiice, rtand unrivalled.
John Connelly, Auffr.
novc-mfcer dts
to. be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not I fore disposed of at private fak ) y
TiLday* the firft of December next, at fix S
o'clock ir» the e;'*ning, .at the Merchants' Cof
fey House, in Philadelphia, Forty Theufand Nine
Hundred and Thirty Ni»e acres cf LAND,
now or late in the County.of Waihinjton, and Com
monwealth of renntylvahia, and » n the waters of
Fresh and WhccHeg Creeks and Ten Mile Run.—
Thefc Lands arc fertrc and well timbered, and were
patenteed ravly in 17S*, except 3700 acres or therea
bout?, which were patcn;ed in 179*. On« fourth
of the purchaft ncney to be piid at the time of fa!c,
f or the rt-ndue a credit of one, t*ro an<t three months,
will be given, on imereftand good fciurity.
Cflober 6. 3r.wtS j
'To be Sold at Public Vendue, ,
(If not before dtfpofed of at private sale)
OX Friday, the Hrtt day of December, at fix
O'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' ColTe •
Woufe, in F*«il*dHph : aY Twefcty Mx TtteufdVid sc.
van iiu died and Eighty acres of L*ND, in the
State of New.York, between the northern bound,
of I\nrffylva*iia ana the Su'quelianna, ne>w, or late,
in the townships oJ Hamdm and Warren, and coun
ty cf Montgomery One fo*rth of the p*fcbi<fe
money is *0 be paid at the time of sale ; tor the le
fidue a credit <if one, two, and three months will .be
given, en iotereft and good fecarity.
Odlofte 6. 3^wtS
Lumlmg.
From on board thi (hip fe'v/arJ, »t Walnut-
Ilrset Wharf,
London particular Madeira Wine,
of a superior quality, Fcr Sale by tl.e fiiVfcriber.
Robirt Andrews.
novcm"ber j. ' o' f
FO RESALE,
A Team of five excellentHorfes,
with a Waggon and Gears. The Horses are all
young, ftromg> true to the draught, and capable
of hauling as great a weight as mo'.; in the coun
try. Tlie Waggon and Gears ars ttrong, and
in good ordet. Apply to KOffERT GftESN,
Wcfl To.rn, Chelter county, otlJo
Thomas FiJJoer,
No. 142, S:Second Street, Philadelphia
r' mo.-?, eodtw.
This Day PubliOied,
And to b* foM by WILLIAM YOUNO, corner of
> Secqnd and Chefnut streets,
Price 3-8/ij of a F)oltar,
Observations on certain Documents
Contiin6:l ia No.V and VI of
" The Kiftory of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the char«k or speculation s^ainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Laic of the Treasury, h EULLT
REFUTED.
IF XIT iS N BT UtMSRir.
This publication presents a coneife flatemcnt
•of the base means praflifed by the Jacobins of the
Uuitcd States to asperse the charaflers of thoft
parfonswho arc eonfideredas hoflile to their disor
ganizing fcheraes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Mefirs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venab'e, on the fub
jeifc of the docuaients aforefaid,and a scries qjf let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibilily of a doubt,
Ithit the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the rtfult of a daring eonfpirasy on the part
cf the latter and his associates to extort money.
:ry~ A discount of one third from the retail price
viiTbe made in favor ot wholesale purchaftrs, for
casu. Orders t« be addrcfled to Mr Yobn*.
Av?ufl %y.
"■ DANCING.
MR. £5" Mas. B Y R NE,
Of t!ic New 'I herui e,
"T> E3PECTFULI A* inform the Lndies and Gen-
J\ th mcn of Philadelphia, that Mr. Bvrnk's
Academy will commence on the i(i r and IVlrs.
Bykve's on the zd of December ncit.
novtinier 20-
Wanted, to Hire,
Al.argt and convenient H JUSE, in or near
the city—for which a generous
ren'. will begiv.n ; to be taken frtr year, or on
more for a long'.r term,
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 29, 1797
For Amsterdam,
K ED W A^R
Jame* Wickham, Majier, •
EXPECTED to fail in a few days, haying two < o
1 thirds other cargo »lr«a if fi
Jy on hoard. For Friiifht or apply to t;
theMafter on board, at Kj.iiiJton'swharf, or to p
jot.m Dtntn-itdjon,
No. 121 Walnut-ftneet.
nnvember aS. dßt
t or Amitcrdam,
I—s The Ship
,yir farmer,
Joiin M'Co-llom, Matter ;
fail in a few days, the I
part of her cargo beir.g 1
ready. For fresgh.t of fifty tens of Coffee, or pas- j
sage, apply to the maftcr 03 board, at Walnut- j
flreet wharf, or to (
JOHN SAVAGE. P
Who is Landing, out of the said Ship, from Bour- I
deaux, *nd For Sale, (
Claret in hhds.
White Wihe in quarter caflcs
Claret in cafeb, of a lupcrior quality 2
Fontiniaii, j
Sauterne, v Wiaes ia cafci j
Lunillc, j
Prunes 111 boxes >
november 24. j
For, Liverpool,
The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
Captain Silas Swaik.
, ' C* Lari»e proportion of her
cargo being ready to go on ! £
board, is to fail on or about Sunday, the
3d of December. r
For eight or apply to the Captain on
board, : Walnut or to
PHILIP NICKLIN Co. - "
novenibcr »x. §
for London;
THE SH^ P
2?P^ ,W ILI AMPEN N '
James Josiah, Master.
THE ship is n#v 'tatin j ton board her targo, and
will fail in all neat week. For freight or paflage
apply to the captain, or to
Jefli & Robert Wain.
nov 11. $
For Londonderry,
THE BRIOANTIN* ' 1
Bgft; SUKET,
William Wuittin, Mailer.
t-_ >B3#)% A (Vong good vessel, about two
hundred/ens, to fail with all conveniest speed, a
,/reat jpart of her eargo engaged—now lyiig at
Willinj and Francis's wharf. For freight or paf
laice, spply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
Latulenlter^ar y > •wLarf. I
Who wants to Charter.
.* Vessel of about three hundred tons.
fjv 8. §
For Savannah, in Georgia^
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain v.-rt 1 sHK)LM,
A new vefTel. w-th 'xcellent
VXSa^LIMS-~~ Qcccmniod-f'tru forpaifengers—
Sail' cn of December Por freight or
PaflV-fe, apply te ROSS ts" SIMSON'.
H'bo have to difaft •/»
A fniall invoice of GL.VVIB£.U. SALTS
INDIGO, and a panel of HOLLY WOOD.
no'jcmbtt iS. §
For Hamburgh.
!**■** The Brig M A R^A r ,
■fySnKl— Pet!» Yobk. matter,*
\ Ay, Lyir.gatßaffel's wharf, ne--r Pin e
* '' llrt'.t, is now ready to take in JL
V Cargc k and will fail in *in days.
Tor Freight, or Pa%e. apply t" n „
GURNEY & SMITH.
Niyrember 16.
For Sale or Charter,
The Snow
GOOD HOPE,
Wi l carry about 1100 barrels, and
T " d y t0 in a cargo. For terms
Pragers Co.
No. 151, fcodth Seoand-Ikrert.
WJio have for sale —prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, MadeiVa, Lisbon, and TenerifTe wine-
November 7.
ITfcfr. Wanted to Charter,
t Ssl3)iFrA one P ort Hifpaniola and back
j faft failing Vefle!,of the bur-
then ot 6 or 700 barrels. For termi, apply to
- Bki jamin Morcan.No. no. South Front street,
. orto ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, South Wharves.
mvember 10. - 1 '
. ¥ For Charter,
t THE SHIP
John Bulkley,
e Samuel Volans, Master.
r "pHIS vessel i* built of live oak
J.' and cedar, of about 30C0
- barrels burthen, and ready to receive on board a
*s'rffe iff Robert Wain.
oa.3* : _L
For Sale or Charter,
s The fatt failing brig
Brothers,
■ Lying at Guriing's wharf,
an u*i ell tilt lingle dcck'd vessel, burthen about
1609 barrels —not twelve months old, and in
r com pleat order. For terms apply to the mailer
$ --1 bi;ard, orto _
jo/l'pu Airtbsny 'df Co.
11, v. ' diw.
By John Fe-nno, N 5, 119 Che [nut Street
THE SHIP
"./jjigv c 0 M M EK C F,
Civptain Richard Whistcoit, Q
" r '' n ' Lirtrpoolis now du'c'urging ».
at . ainiTrijn's wharf, near the Drawbr;J je, where Vl
owners 0!' goo'sot: tseiv.ht, -•■ilfjil.v.fe speedily to H
fend tM-ir permits. Sa'J v.Ual will dirtily after P
take in freight on very low term# for Au- f«
ply to 'he captain„or to ' * J/
lfaac Harvey, jun.
No. 5, Sou'.h Water Street. ti
A few foris of--ftc'ie, or sand ballgl wanted.— t'r
Apply as above. it
noveniher %•} §iot.
Philip Nicklin Sff Co. [!
HAVE FOR SAI.E, b
At their Storks on Walnut street Wharf, r}
Havannah Sugars, white and brown r «
25 hhds. Jamaica do.
3000 pieces of broad Nankeens
Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighths of chefls }
Quickfilvtr ia tuba
Madeira Wuie in pipes and hogdieads t
l'eneriffe Wine in pipe'
Old led Port Wine iuhegfheads
Sail Csnvafs, assorted, No. I to 8
S cases of Mancheft«r Goods, confining of Diaiities, ('
Muflinets,Ginghams,Thickfctts,Corduroys, &c. 'e
200 crates Queens' Ware, assorted E
Nails, effort id y
Bla-k quart _ n
Yellow Ocre in caiks " £
A quahtity of writing Slates, slate Iftk Stands, See. v
100 quarter calks Gnn Vowder ti
'7Ley have atfifor HALE or CHARTER, h
Tbe shi >
JJli. HAMBURG PACKET, 'J
jp Earthen j»o tori, coppered to
«W .'X'.ISC'. tbe hentio, »nc..completely fitted.
TheJh'tp MOLLT, burthen 340 tons, aj,
good vessel, and completely fitted.
The brig AMAZON, bdrthen 1300 bar- c
rels, may be ready for ft, in c few days.
The whole of the above vcffeln to be seen at
Walnut flreet Wharf. 5 an>. ic.
RUNDL£ LKECH, 'j
Have ]u!l received, and have for Sale, at no. 9, f ;
Walnut-street, {,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT 1
Do. , l«ft house CO 4LS
Queens' WARE ia cases, assorted
Bourdeaux BRANDY of an excellent quality
Do. CLARET iq cases, do.
tTHfy HAVE ALSO
For SALE or CHARTER, 1
THE SHIP
PEGGY,
15 tons, in excellent condition, and
may be sent to sea with little cxpeaceor delay.
LIKEWISE,
wfelbk WIL VIA M, .
Burthen 201 ton 9,
novemkr 16- * § I
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By ihip Edward, from Madetfa, and Betsey and
Peggy, fr«-*i Oporto, in Pipes andHoglheads,
For fdle ty
■ PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFfRS F»» S4L«, )
j—The Ship
a m it r,
1 Four thousand barrels burthen,
'ih eicc.eilciit order— ready to take
in a cargo—about three yearj old.
UKiwiss,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen So© harre 1 !, ready aifo to receive a car
rrc^— flnd a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
JuA landed from the above vefleis at owuth fireet
wharf. c6tm. QV> *•
~ fames £sf Richard Smith,
•-pAKB the liberty of informing thiir friends
JL and tlia public, that they have retrieved :h.-;r
flore to No. 54, South FrontJlrctt, next d»or to lid
ward Fox's Auction Uoom, whera they have at
this time for fale,a large and general affortme»t ol
European & Eajl India Goods,
M.iny of which arc just imported in the Clothier,
William Pcnn, &c. &c.
Oa. t7- | *
Samuel Pleaiants & Sons,
No. 74, South Second fireet,
HAV2 received a supply of Seasonable GOQDS,
which they are now «ponmg for iale, on
reafynafele terms. OA 17-—4 W
■ ROSS y SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALB,
A few bales Baftas, Coffas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica, T
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal j
300 calks RIPE, md
■ parcel of ship building RED CEDAR.
oa v. y
Landing this day,
' From on board the schooner Two Friends, Dan'
lei Crawley, Matter,
gohhds. and ; Jamaica RUM,
15 pipes ) J
\ FOR SALK BY
George Latimer <£? Son.
uovember 9. 5
For Sale, by the Package,
'*■ For cash, or good notes at sixty or ninety d^ys,
J VI7.
a 13oolt and Jaconet i*Tu3ins plain")
stripes, and Cheeks [ Assorted in
do. do. Tatrfboured )> packa„cs
do. Ladies handkerchieia, & | 0
gentlemen's neck do. J
Jacoivet chintz mi.fiin fur home and the Weft
India market, Piillfcote and linen handkerchiefs,
for do. do primed do. do. common purple and
, chintz shawls.
The above goods entitled to drawback on ex
portation. Also .1 few fcotchcarabricksand an
f affortroent of muffin by the piece.
n The whole o/the above being a cordignment
r from the msnufaolurer? mB. i' ain.
To be seen tit VVh.liam Biackburn's
Office, No. 64, South Second Street,
j N«v. 6. ;av:tf.
To the Inhabitants of the United
To the Inhabitants of the United
States.
QINCE the knowledge of medicine, none has cv
kj er proved so uftfctfnbingly t-flicaciou*, Tou i- - v ,'
veriijly e.'lcemed, or to which <he afiii&ed wirh
I'vheumatirnis, Gout, Rheumatic Gout, Lu.r.hago,
Palsy, Sprains, Bruises and may look L
far relief with so much confidence, as
fl' Jbitebeaif s c[fence Mujlard. 1
Fh;extraordinary Medicine very soon aifords
the w:fh?d for relieT, " even so the aged' in cases ol
the mo 3 delperate." For these fubQiantial rcafons
it is patronised by all ranks of people in England.
From the gi eat number of communications con
stantly received by Mr. Johnstom, he is under the
necellity (in layi»gthot» before thr would) of a
bridging their contents; the following lettters (al
though curtailed) are so very important,
figiiarures so very relpeiitable, that he conceives he
Hiould be doing injuttice to Whitehead's Jtj/inu of
were he t» v. ithhold them Cromf üblic ia-
u
' b
Letter from Mrs. Mills, Houykeeper to the Duke I /
of Cumberland. * ~
Sir, Nov. 1, 17.5* (
A most inveterate Rlieumatif.n and l.ui" ag) 1
(occcafioned by laying in a damp bed, when at
Oruffcls, in the flit of Her Koyal
DutchcC, of vJnmberland) has atii&sd me eighteen
years. I have employed the firft medical gaatlc
mcti in I.ondou, and (although t deriv.l no bene
fit) ana bound t« my gratitude to le
veral of the nobiiity, who knew my deplorable si
tuation, and hu*»ant;ly sent me their phyuciant ; I
have also tried 'naoft advertised medicines. At
length, lir, after eiglltecn years eicru«at:ng
torture, a few bpttles of your KHuUhcui't Fjftncc
tf JifujljrJ, have, I thank God, retlored i.:e
HieflimabU bleCings of heahh and pi-rmanent cafe.
> Yours, much obliged,
No. 134, Jermyn-ftrect.St. James's. S. MILLS.
Copy of a tetter from G. Coupufs.efq. Captain of
His Majcfty's Ship the D-daias.
Sir, SpitheaJ, Nov. 8, X 79 5•
As I eipe<£l to fail inSa lew days, I beg you will
immediately forward me a d.zen of Wliteheutft
t'JJemcff MjfljrJ. It gives me consider ■ lie l'jtif
faction to inform you, 1 have myfelf experienced
its good effe&j, and have in fevcral infiinces of
Rheumatisms, Sprains, and Bruises, witnessed its
aftonilhing efficaoy. 1 think you wooll consult
your own interest by appointing it to be fold at
Portfnaouth, and all other feaporis ; for you may
reft afTureJ, when this isvahsable fpecific bcco:ues
generally known, not an Officer in Hi* Majesty's
Navy will go to sea without it.
Yours, See.
G. COUNTESS.
1
Sir, Dec/«o, 1J95-
A fever* stroke of the Palsy, fix months ago, de
prived me of my speech, and the use of one fide.
In this desperate situation, WhilJuaSs Efface tf
Mujiard was very firongly recommended, and, 1 ]
thank God asfuccefsfolly applied. By perfevcring a
in itsufe a fliort time, I was completely idlorcd, t
and continue to enjoy the full and pet ft ft uf< of (
my faculties, although near eighty years of age. f
Yours, V. FRANCIS, ,
No. 14, Arabella-row, Pimlico. t
Mr. Francis has held a public situation at ,
the Guildhall in th« city of Westminster, many ,
years, and is well known to the generality of tht
refpeftahSe inhabitants.
Letter from A< McCan Kfq. Capt. of the 60th r#-
giment, dated Fort George, Guernfsy,
Sir, fa«. 4, 1797
Upwar, s of five years pad 1 have been affliited j
with a mofl violent Rheumatic Affeftiou ia my
head, whith has bafDed the ikill of the most emi
nent {'hyCcians; fo:nemonths fmcc I wasitduced
to try your WoiUbead' 1 FJfcncenf M"Jiard I am
now happy to inform you, it has doftc me cffcnlial
fervice.ar.d 1 thuik it noceffary to declare, no othtr
medicine ever fftjalltil degree of relief.
I am wiih regard, yours, &c, &c.
Capt. 6otl. Uegt. A. McCAN.
August, 1795:
Mr. Middleton, »f Chelerfield-Jreet, 81. Ma
ry le-bonc wasfo fevercly afiliAed, with the liheu
rr.atic Gout, as to be unable to mbve in my bed for
fix months; his limts were enormoufiy fwellecl.i d
at length fiom excessive paiß became quite black.
In this distressing situation he was induced to try
your IVLitelead's Effenu
Sxeeeded the most t. ngoine expeftatior, his pain
was immediately alleviated, and hi- liiob. returned
to their natural colour ; his appetite reftorcJ, ar,d
in a very short time he was enabled to leave bis bed
and walk with crotches; and by a few wetlisper
fevcrance, was completely retlored to the full cn
joym. at of perfeit health.
\* Mr. Middleton, with his son. repeatedly
railed a. kegot better, on Mr. Jchnfton, and d»-
clared that his life was utterly defpairtd of.
RefpcaedSir, Nov. 6. 179!■'
Palling lry a croud, in the fifth of* her
prcgoaocy, my wile received a dreadful blow 011
her fide, which apparently dtlfroycd the life of the
I infant ; after the most Ikillul advice, and trying
' various remedies for two months, file Rill found
the fymptortas increufe to an alarming degree ; spit
ting of blood—lhortnefs of breath —ajiu other dif
agreea'ol» circumftanccs appeared fiom so violent a
hruife, nfforded only the fatal appearance cl her
speedy dissolution. A friend to whom 1 related
her fad cafe, having experienced greit benefit from
your Whitehead't EJftacecf Mv/larJ, tindly picket
ed me with a hottie ; to my unspeakable fatisfac
" tion, it fpedily relieved htr from pain ; a iecond
bottle has removed every difagreeablc symptom,
and with tie mod heartfelt gratitude I inform you,
we have the happy prwlpe<sl of her continuing
a ltvin» mother to our numerou, family.
Yours, &c. T. HURLOCK.
Whitmore's-row, Haxton'.
CHILBLAINS.
WLitehafs EJfence of Mujlari generally curss
- Chilblains aud common Rheumatisms, on the f.rft
or second application, and often removes the most
violent Sprains and Bruises, in two or three days.
'' Caution. —A Certificate is palled on each bottle
and box, and the danger of cr unterfeits,
another certificate is also fig.ied by G. Sha\y & Co.
of Philadelphia. '
Shaw & Co. have also imported by the William
quantity of Gowland's Lotioo for the face
and Ikin—Balfam of Honey lor coughs, asthmas
ft andconfumptions—Chur h's Cou h Drcps, and a
s, variety of other Patent Medicines,
d novein
"lo Gentlemen who intend /pending
in ■ the Winter in the City.
« ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board —at No. 114, corner
it! Siitlk and Rare Streets. '! he situation
igreeaUe—shd vicinity has hc«i free from the late
contagiou, Ocl, l j,— dif
iVantsJ, by a Gentleman in Virginia,
Adiicreet, ienfible Matron,
aged 45 or .?o ycic.., qualified to teach
ycfirj; b»?» -iL.u.a, Arithmetic, Hiflory and
-■ t ocvuphy—Alfo, to a& in the capacity of House.
'■* -per——Tor furtlisr information apply to the
Printer. »tfr—d«r
los r;
TN thii City, oa Sunday, 26th KovemW, 1797,
Aa red Morocco Pocket .Cook, containing y not<_«
of hand tDREA*» & Pifiua, as follows,viz.
John DuQi£M\ * or 441 dollars, cents.
William M'Luws 43$ 37
George W y\ A 177 / iq
John Doak«, 11 90 1
Kcward Clayton's, 60
Do. 30
Do. 27
One 10 dollar J3ai?kof Pennlylvanianote—an or
der itpcn Waiter Franklin,'Efc in favor of Ctariei
Read, andfundry o:her pipers t^a'can be et no
use tut to the owners. Paymint of t K <* affr<MVi 1
notes of hand being Hop 1 a revprdof fifteen
lars shall \ t paid to tfte person or pe. locs bribing
Ta:d pocket book with the contents to
Head and Pierie, mo. 6j, Chciuut flreet and no
(j'.i .•Itior.s a fired.
ncvenibcr -.7 *eodiv
Mordecai Lewis,
lI,IS FOR JS/iLE,
At his Store, &o. 25, Great Dock-flreet,
250 bales of bengal Goods
Containing Bafta3, *
OUaa
Gun-ahs
. Mora^ugurgcci
Too!;:ry ,
Check and Stripes
Bandauo Handkerchief*
Mamoody
Calicoes
II boxes Irlfb Linen*
I do.
7 do. Umbrellas
ao canisters Ja.va Sugar
73 bags black Pepper
116 do. East India Gingor
100 cajks roll Brimstone
7c pipes Madeira Wioc
5; calks Gin
A quantity oI (heathing Copper and Nail*.
• Aobcr 3®. law^w
, .BEE ¥.
, Prime Beef, fit for India voyages, for sale by
WILLIAM SHEAFF,
No. i6B> High-itreet.
Also, about fifte«n hundred weight of Bees.
Wax.
, Nov- it, 1797. ' ritf.
Isomas Randall,
' PRESENTS his refpe&s to his Friends, and the
1 Public in general, informs them that he has opened
an Office, athishoufe, No. 88, Spruce flreet, for
• the purpofc of Jranfa&inj bufrnefs in the line of
Conacniffio* and Ag»ncy, c«lleoking rents and out
standing claims in auy part of rfie U»ited States.—
• He flatters himfelf, that front his lo»g refidesce i*
this country and a general knowledge of it, hisfer
cicus will be founo worthy the notice of thofc who
I may pleife to confide to him the managed ent of
1 any of their concerns.
N- B, Secerity given where required,
nth mo 24 3tawtf
03" St. Andrews' Society.
7 Members of fit. Andrews' Society, will
i j 1 pleafu to take notice, that as their Annivi-r
---' ftry rappensthis year cn a Fail Bay, to he obferv
- j e<i by an order of the Synod of Philadelphia, to
i which' community many of th«. members belong ;
n it is therefore judged proper to defjjr tile Celebre.-
d tion thereof, until Friday, the firlt of Wecerfiber,
r at O'Uliers' Hptel.
f. The members are requtfted to apply (or tickets
ot admiflion to any of the afliftants, via- Meflrs.
!. Thomas Leiper, Gavin Hami ton,,jun. James Hen
de-fon, llo'r.ert *Ltndcrfon, WiUiaoi H. Tod,Hi ;.
or! Dr. .Andrew Sp"nte.
The officers arc defircd to attend at one o'clock^
- dinner to be on the table at three,
ir Bv order of the Bour 1,
J ' RICHARD L.-.ICE, Secretary,
c, dtiO
ir 400,000 weight of choice 3i. Do-
B , mingo CO I'FEE,
tl FOR SALE BY
d JAMES YARD.
r- diet
~~ All Peri'ons,
y TNDI.BT3D to the Eilate of Jgssph John
j. A. son, o! Germantown, in the county of Phi
ladel{»hia, deceased, are desired to make i«nat
diatepayusent, and those who have any demand:
S-i jgainit laid estate, sre desired to bring forwarc
er their accounts to either of the fubferibers.
mi ELIZABETH JOHNSON,)
he JOHf*f JOHNSON, Jun. > Adminiftr'i
T, JOHN JOHNSON, >
,J Germantown, loth ruo. sjth, 1797-
't- Oa. 31.
! a Wants a place,
er \,S a Wet Nurse, a young woman, who cat
ad bewell recommended. Inquire in Eleven'J
,m fireet, near Racc-flreet. no-v. 27.
*eodiw.
10 ; —~
nd A journeyman Hair-Drefler,
m ' TTTHO is filber and Heady, and underftard
]u ' VV his business, may have immediate err
p'oymeßt, application to GEORGE AI
K BOTT, No. 9, Che&ut-flreet. Nov.
eodiw. ■
For Sale by the Subscribers,
res Prime Rice in zuhoh and half tierces
rft Boui deaux Brandy
oft Teng-rifle Wine
ys. Moiajfes
tie Georgia and Carolina Indigo
its, ' Havens Suck and one Logjhead of pai
3o- brujhes.
J<[. (5 s J. Fryizer.
am No. 95, ijontb Front Street.
nas I'
da To be Sold,
_ A Valuable Plantation,
iiir upwards of One Hundred Acre* of Lan
\ y well watered, in a healthy frustion, abo
fevee miles fi'om this City ; the buildings may I
made to acconamodate a large frmily, at a mod
rate eitpenfe, and pofiefiien had in a few *veel
ner Part ®f the ;mrr?' .1 !'c-money being paid, a realo
ion able credit'v. iH be allowed r. niainier.
late Enquire of the Fij^ter.
f r.cvember j nawlt#
! " •' /
\Vc
uMB XII%i;t €sascttc%
r HIL .* 1J £■ LPH IA ,
f.SLI.'.Y EVP.'-fi'JG, I:OrEMBER %•)
Th," .commifiioners appointed by the go
vernor to Carry into effect the law for aue-
XiKJ.ig the diftfefsof the citizens of Phila
delpiiia, and the suburbs thereof in confe
queiice of the late calamity,
To the binevolent donors who came for
ward to five relief to our fuffering fellow
citizens at cne of those trying pariods which
d'eldom happen in any country.
It is to youthat we conceive it our duty
to address at this time ; not only because it
belongs to you to be acquainted with the
appropriation of your money that wa3 cn
trr.fted to us as your agents, but likewile
to give vent to feelings of gratitude that are
engraven on our minds, for the generous
a ail fpoiitaneous fupplics depoutfd in our
hfinds, at a moment when our thoughts were
ifeepVy" engaged to find out ways and means
t > afford relief to about fix thoufnnd diftreff
td rr.en, women and children, who had be
iJOEe obiscb of our c?re, in confequt'nce of
having received fnppoit from the fuin grant
ed by the Legidature, which was <#'.tirely
ospemlcd by th,' eighth of October : At
' t'liii junftuvt we called on our fellow-citi
2»r, , "> id were anfwercd with'that noble
• • I
n'ffo of/pi,it which characterizes our coun
try, by receiving in ca(h upwards of twenty
thnufand ive hundred dollars, exclusive of
three hundred and thirty five barrels, and
sixty hundred,. three quarters and fifteen
Tjounds in bags of wheat, rye, buckwheat,
and indian meal ; besides potatoes and fun
i!ry other kinds of provifiou : aided by the
above, and affiited by a number of refpec!-
table inhabitants of the city, northern liber
ties, and Skiuthwark ; we are erfabled so
continue relieving, by weekly donations, a
bove thirteen hundred persons, chiefly heads
(if families, oppressed by poverty (icknefs
and distress, and to give employment to a
bout fix hundred men on the roads ; who if
not provided for in that manner would, in i
a all probability, huve been, from dire necedi- ;
ty, compelled to descend tp means injurious '
to themselves and to the community.
Thus have we endeavoured to explain to j
you, in some measure, in what manner we
expen&dyour money, entrusted to us until'
about the 18 th in ft. at which time an exam
ination of our funds took place, and the bal
ance found ta be but two thousand dollars-
Artec making appropriations for the pur
chase of five hundred cordis of wood, and
fifteen hundred bufhtls of potatoes, for the
purpoie of meeting the diftrefiesof the poor
in the more inclement season. '
At this time we were called on by an af
iofctation of young women of great refpetfla- '
bility afid known philanthrophy, who have ]
been for ftveral winters employed in relief- '•
ing without pa. tiality the fuffering posr par- t
ticiikrly of theii own sex ; paying no re- ;
gard to distance weather or fituution ; not 1
doubting but it would meet with yotir »p 1
and be as agreeable to you to be t
informed of their praise worthy request, as 3
it was to us by having it in our power to 1
1" grant them five hundred dollars and ten bar- t
rels of flour, at a time v. hen we had con
cluded to fulpend the fupplics as our fellow- a
j citizens had returned home and employment u
was attainable ; yet there might b« tiume- t
rous cases wherein this worthy female foeie- 11
ty might indulge themselves in visiting the t<
' mansions of distress and thereby give relief d
to many \wofe iituations would never have 1
been othfrwife known. ; d
Although we have the above balance-be
lideS wood, potatoes, and flour, we fear it t;
will be scarcely fjfficiVnt to meet the nuir.e- p
rous wants of the inhabitants during the ap- j e<
proaching winter. | ei
Having been as brief as poflible in giving ' c
you a detail of our proceedings, a more mi-1 1
aiute one we should be willjng to afford by j m
a conference with any persons who may feel ' u
themselves interested in the expenditure of L
thehnoney, &c.' entrusted to out care ; or UI
ijre deliroiu t« obtain information for the w
of improving by our experience, for N
tli'e advantage of fuffering humanity in fun !
ture. For this purpose a reference to the an
minutes of our proceedings may be had at ol:
any time, by enquiring of the members.
Thankful wc are that we have been aid- H
ed by some supplied by you, and dire<Sed rlt
by Providence to give comfort to the mour
ner, bread to the hungry, and consolation to bu
the distressed widow and fatherlefs. 38
Robert' Wharton, Samuel Whee'er, tit
Edward Gar agues, yohn Wagner, " n
George Krebs, George Ingles, e,t
fohn James, Robert M' Muffin, th
Israel Israel, William Linnard.
Thomas Savery, Y°
CcmmiJJlcner's Office, Old Court House, j u '
Philadelphia, Nov. 24, 1797. nn
ric
The mod bitter (atire that was ever puMi(h?d a- to!
gninfl is the juliification which has
appeared in the Aurora of the lite overthrow of
the ConOitntion of France by the Triumvirs.
Caii.ille Jourdan, one of the denounced Depu
ties, calls it a horrible crime—and the total def- "
truflion of the inviolability of the reprefrntative ths
bony—has left nothing more of the republic, than tha
Csci'ar left in Rome, when the Senate deliberated b] o
\inder the terror of the armed force of the ufur
cor
per " red
following article, copied flom an Irish
paper, (hews the price of bread in Belfaft, the po\
trginning of September. r ;d,
" Sorougb of Btlfajl, id Sept. 1797- the
" A!Tree of Bread, by oriicr of the worship- w l 1(
iul John Brown, li-'q- fnvcreiyr, the middle ; ro .
price of witeat and flour being jh 18b. 3d. per ,
barrel, with allowance to the B-iker included. - l!
iriite.
lb.uz. dr. Ib-oz. dr. ,n g
Penny "1 fo6iooo erni
Two-ptnnv I Io la 1 o o o zen
Four-penny Loaves 18314* ellc
T.ix penny I | 1 4 -1 I.t 6 7 : e n
Tv.e'.ve-ptnny J (.* 8 Bj6 13 6 '
Si.rned bv older, P ot
ATKINSON, Town Clerk. . "
tfjr The fove.c : pn inlifts that, the baker ™p
Biai'ks his bread acceding to the statute." Otig
j SALEM, ( Jfaffachufetts) Nov. 17.
I Capt. Sliil'.iixtr srrivtd yeiler lay from
j BouVdeatus, 44. d.ij'S from the mouth of the
1 riser.
?9 j It was expected at Boordc;v:x that the
j American' CmnmiGinners would be well re
s'' 2- ce;vcd, and an accommodation cffe&ed.
'l" 2 ' '^ e famous Marquis Saint Simon is ar
/ redid; with 10 or 12 others. This itiin
afe- fixed the attentioh of Government by the
effectual means of aflianand communication
for- which ijc had created by the-eliahiifhment
of (diligences, mefiengerc, See. beyond the
licli abilities of an not supported by
concealed agents ; by which means he oc
utv cupied all the roads of the north of France,
eit and peopled that vast sdminiftration with
the emigrants and counter-revohitionifts.
en- Capt. late of the Ketch John,
vile captured by a French privateer, on his paf
are iage from the Isle of France to Salem, ar
ous rived here ycfterday from Cape-Francois,
our Capt. Tibbits was forced from his vessel,
ere and carried to Porto-Rico, and finally to
ans the Cape, but has no knowledge of the fate
ess- 01 the ketch. He is positive* (he has not
be- arrived at' any part of Hifpanicla.
; of 1
nt- DEDHAM, (Mass.) November 16.
Ely Communications.
At A writer in the last Minerva, under the
iti- head of Communication, abferves upon the
>le- cafe of the (hip America, adjudged in Eng
un- land upon the principle, that a Britilb fub
aty j e <3, though he remivttfto America, is still
of a British fubjeQ. This principle may per
tnd haps be deemed rigid,,but if it is sometimes
sen hard, it sometimes proves beneficial, and
at, gives a man, born in England, the adrsnta
un- /ges of a natural fubjeA. Is there any na
:he tion that allows a man to throw offhiscoun
eci- try at pleafurc, as he would his boot* ?
er- which the writer seems to think the true
to do&rme. The French (hot the poor Count
a- de Sombreveil, who was takeu at Quiberon,
ids 3nd they gave their emigrants no quarters,e
es s ven in war, because they hold to the doc
a- trine this writer so much abominates as ex
-lif clufively Bntifh. What doss the writer al
in 1 luded to think the true system i Was Bar
fix- ; ney right ? May a man fay hocus pocus,
us ; and then, of right and with a good con
j science, fit out a privateer or take a French
to , commiiuon to rob his own countrymen on
ve the high seas ? Is there such magic power
til in a I'rench cockade ? Is there morcgood
n. sense, more patriotism in that proceeding
than in the unchangeablenefs of British al
_ legiance ?
:r . So much for the fubjeft and argument of
id your correspondent. The ■ coarseness and
>e istemp«ra*ce of his paragraph speak for
3r themselves.
f. One of the chief caufcs of our profiting so
j. little by experience is, that we badly com
re prebend itsleflbns. Indeed it is said that
r . men never grow wife by any experience but
r . their own ; because, perhaps, no other it
well enough understood. The aftonifliing
,t revolution in Paris, o£ the 4th September,
> 1797, wiU form a great article in future hif
e tory. We know few ®f its circumftancei
is aad causes, but to those who will not wait [
o long to make up a final judgment, we offer ,
the following remarks : ,
i- The DiredWy, confiding of five persons, i
■- and the two Ltgiflative Councils, arifwer- 1
t ing to our American' Senates and Reprefen
. tatives, diFagreed. The Directory, har
- in g gained the armies, had it ir. their power .
e to decide the difput-e by for«e, and it was (
f decided by beat of drum in half a day—
c Then it was easy to obtain from the new mo- a
i delled councils, after ontf third were bani(h- F
- ed, laws and resolves to k«ep the beaten par- *
t ty down, and to assure the people that their
. political salvation was once more accomplish- a
. j ed. Which party was right, or whether c
| either fcufflcd for any thing but power is a
r; left to time and to the wife to decide.
. | There is, no doubt, much of mystery in
■ j most political affairs ; and those of France p .
[ have long been deemed unfathomable.— '
* Like other men of common learning and
■ underflanding, we can only compare what tf
we do not perfectly know with what we do. at
• Now how would it be in America—ln Pa- f"
ris near sixty Representatives and Senators,
and two of the five Direiiors arc turned
out and banished, in half an hour, to die
of the yellow fever on tha eoaft of Africa—
How would such a thing proceed in Ame- sl
rica ?
Here a law must be firfl passed, descri
bing the crime, and pointing out banifhinent ty
as the punishment. Then a grand and pc- tii
tit jury must decide on the offence foleinnjy ta
and plainly charged and described—and if k
either of the r aid juries (hould decide against th
the wishes of the Federal Government, the ca
laws would fay to our rulers, " thus far (hall h"c
ye go, and no farther," But iri France, a h
juftica goes by the beat of. the drum, and Ai
much quicker. Now which is best, Ame- th
ricar. liberty, or French ? Some have here- re
tofore pretended to douht.
One line of difference and immense- E'
ly important it is, lies here, that all power to
in France aSually rests in the fame hands W 1
It is theJinglenefs, tbe unity of that power !Z<
that envenoms the curfc of their tyranny—
that makes every stroke of its whip draw wt
blood—it is an ele&ric slash, that kills and cai
consumes, without warning and without St
redress. Ati
In the United States of America, the
power that disposes of life and liberty is di- W
vided. Those who make laws are fnbjeft to fe>'
them in faft, as well as in name, and those tin
who submit to the laws find them a rod of wh
iron, which oru(hes them, if they offend, wfl
but a wall of brass, if they are innocent. de(
In a word, our liberty is in our own keep- *ec
ing. For the juries, in thr cafe of the gov- gre
crninent's desiring to perftfeute private citi- itrc
zens, is that of brass. By- the independ
ence of the judicial power, the government of
is never so fceisle as when it would be def- rev
potic. dor
These oljfervations lead to the error and con
imperfection of the French system, and cite
ought to ijpprefs upen every reflecting mind fait
the nlasof ttieM,/and /rx'iifaerty of our
country, in which every citizen is jecure,
cm attil j'As so. How much is this experiment-:
the ed iecunty to be preferred to the for,t!iy and
l'anguinary abiiractions of French philo
the fi-phy : '
re- 1
' LDAN i y Nov 21 ►
ar- I!igKly tt.bfc that exceßtiir snd
T in n «.)ininK «if Prefidtnt /.dams, to the
the United Stit**, to «« avoid !'orei/n
ion j , r fl ® epcc * t ' llt 'ieflroyiug: anjrel of,
■ lit iaft accounts from tile I rench regeitt'r/iie/i
Ratavian repuMic (hew t«> a (l:u
the ation such an influerict has reduced that once
by independent people. In such d-esd do they feel
oc . tnemklves on account of their allies, th e- French,
ce, 011 '' lc ' a,e r( je < Si"n of the cdnftittitTon
ilh iicei, piopnli-dto tliem, the Hjtgt ian
, convention voted an addrefs'to the Fr. nch, heir
. S'"g not t<> be condemned hailily for tne step
• irl » th<y Inr! taken^
3 "; FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
PARIS, Sept,u. '
to ! ARMY OF 1 HE S.-VMBRE AND MFUSE.
ate j c ' srmv of the Sambreand the Meufe has
jqj sent the following addrels to the Executive Di
reiJlory :
" Honoured be ye,
country ! honoured he your wisdom and your
courage. Continue labours worthy of your
felv<s Give to a!!oni(hrd Frasce the libour
:he which has been so long w>tihe!d from her. Do
not fuft'er the mercenary hordes jjf robhers, of
infamous royalists and emigi ants, who have re
jb- ' urr \ e d> to force frc(h chains for us. Cru(h all
, parties and all paihons. Purge the earth of
1111 those monAers who only seek to sow divisions,
er- bloodshed and pi'lage. Overthrow for ever
ics that intatnous hydra, that phantom of tyrannv.
nd " Moreau, our worthy chief, will communi
ta- c:lte 10 s rou our sentiments and our wishes j thry
la- arc c! '^ atcil hy the purefl patriotism ; they are
lrl directed to the support of government, and the
i ConAi'tiitii.n of the year; they are direiSled
' • to maintain property within, aßd to Overthrow
ue thronts without.
Nt " Should nny party whatever attempt toover
in, throw th.s sacred at-jv'-flf our liberty, sum ron
, round you the chit ken of vi<£lory ; thev wif
| c _ rid you of thole moriders who have so long re
tarded the progress of the revolution ; they will
prove by t heir Courage that they have nat'been j
si- emp!ovedlii vain for the.lalt eight years,
lr- "We have no reflections t«, add, citizen Di
IS) rcdlors. We have only to request, that y< u
n . a-ill cantinye your labcms, and will give us
marks of your efletm, by 'heftowing on us the
haypinefs of iliil more in fuppcrt of
111 the government and of the eonflitution."
cl " | Here followed thefignatures.]
)d
ig COUNCIL o» FrV'E HUNDRED, ill Con
[l- plennentary day—Sept. 27.
Vilhcrs, in the name of the eon tnitlee of fi
nance, gave a second rea ling of the financial
. prcjedl. He proposed that tne prodtifl of the
' duty on tobacco imported from foreign parts
>* (liould be raised to to millions. The Council
agreed to the principle.
Peres.—" You are ignorant to what an' ex-
r 0 tent the fury of card-playing has arrived in
Fran;e : there is no family that does not lament
fuck a disorder 5 as it cannot be destroyed, it
mufl be made serviceable to the public, treasury.
'} It" playing continues, so much the better for the
is public treasury ; if it ceases, so much the better
g for the catife of morality. I, therefore, propefe I
c f tolubjefl cart's to a Damp duty."
f- Sever»l memlrtrt.—ketcr ft to a committee. I
Villicrs —" Ido net eppofe the deferring it to I '
acommittee, but I think we (hall r.ot be long in ! '
deciding : for it is a known fidl, that the roy- '
1 aliilsplay more than the repufclifans : the form- I 1
er, therefore, while they do play, will at leaftbe I 1
1, furced to havehefore their eyes the i'.amo of the ]
.. republic."—(A laugh.)
The motion of Peres was pafled immediately. I /
3d day—Sept. 19. j
Thedifcuffw? on the projeil ol Ouy vernon, I '
r to exclude all the ci-devarit nobles from public I '
s fitnationsj was resumed. I
Chollet opp fed the whole as uacQnftitutional.
- and unjnit- He concluded with moving a pro- I
. position to the follawing cffedl: "In a month I
_ a.ter the promulgation of this law, all the ci- I
devant nob'es (hall be obliged to apgsear before I
a magiflrate, and make this declaration—" II 2
acknowledge virtue as the only nobility, and I
cenSder every other ditinrtion amongftmen as I
1 an outrage to humanity."
piitnoling opposed th? projeift of Chollet I
1 he difiutfion of Guyvernon's prijeil was I.
put offfc. three days, and,fhe Couheil pafled to I '
the Order of the Day on that oFChollet. [P
jth Complementary Djv—Sept. 21. I J
Citizen Lecox, Bifnop, of Kennes, organ of j
the Miniftersof the Catholic religion afli-mbled I ei
at I ar.s, trahfmitted their declaration offu'omif- [ ti
fion to the laws of the TJepublic.
Andouin.—" We know no B.lhops here; j
I move the Order of the Diy." —Adopted. "
COUNCIL OF ELDERS. "
j m
SITTING OF THE THIRD COMPLEMENTA- ,' c
RV DAY. I y(
Tiu deputies of St. Domingo, admitted
by the law of yesterday (Lavaux and Brot- n ,
tier) took the oath. Lavaux at length ab- j eJ
tained permifßon to fpcak. My firll duty,
said he, is to make known the exadl (late of | b<
the colony of St. Domingo, and to eradi- at
cate the ill imprvllions which the enemies of I ]y
liberty have spread abropd in France, and, a t
above all, in the fca-port towns, which as- [ ol
Aiding recitals have so much dittrefled them I en
that they do not believe trade can be again I f c
revived in that colony. j ; n
This l;'centiou3 faition, which the 18th Q f
Frudlidor has brought tojnllice, presented j c h
to you the patriots of St. Domingo, those I S 1
who defendedit, as blood-fuckers, diforsfan- | . !(
tzcrs, and dilapidators. They hope infea- j cl;
fibly to bring you tobelieve,. that the blacks t h
were not worthy of enjoying liberty. You jt o
I cannot, citizens, allure the tranquility of ex
St. Domingo, but in giving a new confirm- I th
ation to the decree of th.e 16th Pluviofe, J BR
which proclaimed the liberty of the blacks. I
\v hat interest would the black hav# to de- j mc
fend the colony, if lie had not at the fame J V at
time to defend the right of a Freneh citizen, j f„l
which had been accorded to him ? Vainly J ift
will the troops $f France be relied upon to j tJ O
defend St. Domingo. Experience has pro - [ are
ved that the climate has cut down a very rna
great part, ar.d that the fatigues of war de- h?i
ftr»yth C reft._ J,
What can induce you to annul the decree ble
of the 16th Fluviofe ? can it be the eott'n- a g {
revclutioary report, of Vaublanc of Bour- a':,c
don de Loiie ? The 18th of Fructidor has p o \
convinced you that they only wanted to ex- abl
cite a civil war in France ; they had the «
fame intentions for &it. Domingo."
;)ur Lavaux then made an eulogy on the ge
•re, iiTals Touflaint LoUvertur.-, Pierre Mi
nt- ehel, L'F.veille Moife, Vitiate, Pajot, and
»nd of a number of other officers,
ilo- He added :at the taking of Jean Rabel,
200 French emigrants weic found, propri
etors of estates j not one was killed ; they
are all in America. At the taking of Era
fcarcadere, 300 of them were found; 1 fa
: '' n vecl 260 of them, who are now , upon their
5 ." plantations. It is thus that' men called
i/iri cannibals, have coftdu&etl themselves. If
l:u we had been wiHinjr to deliver up the colo
ur* ny to the enemy, of which we are accused,
"y'' (honld we have defended it at a time when
. ' every morning several per fans were found
ian wftH hunger ; , when we had nothing
r , r - to live upon but com and sugar c*;ies.
tep Vaublanc has called us diforganiiers ; but
has he forgot that when I took the com
~ mar.d of the northern part of St. Domingo,
all the sugar plantations were burnt ; that a
year afterwards (thanks to the vigilance of
PerroudJ ninety four plantations were re-ef
'^' tnblifhed, and that his admiuillration has
J. s been able to provide for all the wants of the
colony, without scarcely receiving any fuc
sur cours from the metropojis. It is to him
jur that lam indebted for the fuceefs of my
jr- projects. At my departure the colony ow
>ur ed only 800,000 livres. In fine, to all the
1 ° calumnies which have been uttered ag .inft
r °l me " n f w f r » that I have dene my duty ;
jll and I swear to do it here also.
0 f The council ordered the discourse to be
ns, printed.
' er Fourth Complementary Day.
'?• One of the deputies named by the elc-c
---toral assembly held at the Cape of St. Do
lr'e niirigo, 20th Germinal, sth year, took the
l, e oath of fidelity to the republic, and to the
e d conditution of tha 3d year,
iw Bordas, in the name of a committee, pro
posed to rcje£l the resolution which reealh
: " into the colonies the refugees and those who
have been expelled. Tlte firft article, said
e _ he, facilitates to all the emigrants in foreign
id countries the means of re-entering the colo
cn nies, and the taking poflefiion of their es
tates. I( will be fwfficient for them to ob
tain this power, to a(k a certifieate of the
" minister of the republic in that «; *> ry.
I le None will hefitatc to a(k this, beeaufe they
0 f are very certain there cfoet not exist any le
gal diftin£tion for the emigrants of the colo
nies, that they arc not confounded with
those of the continent, and they will not be
:1 ~ afraid of the minister refufing thera on ac
j. count of their emigration.
When this article-is compared with ano
lc ther in the fame resolution, it will (hew its
ts injuftiee. They confine to the juftificatioa
:il of non-emigration the colonists who are re
fugees in Prance, and who, from this, may
be the lefsfufpefted of emigration, and they
" dispense with it in those who are refugees id
l t foreign countries.
!. Another article of the refoluiion tends
e also visibly to_caufe all the emigrants to re
•r eater the colony. It states that the emi
■" grants, whose goods have been fequeflrated, 1
fnall enter again to the poffeflion of them,
o on t ' le f' m P* e rcprefentation of the ran Her
n roll of the neutral veffcl which conveyed
- them ; so that it will depend upon an A- '
1- merican captain whether an emigrant (hall
e re enter the colonies and take pofleffion of i
c his property ; and to enable him to do this, t
the captain may produce a falfe muster-roll, c
fabricated for the purpose. The commit- 1
j tee proposed uuaniinoufly to rejeft the rcfo- <
e lutiou. . ' f
The council ordered the printing qf this i
• discourse, and an adjournment. f
' SPEECH OF REVILT.IERE LEPAUX, t
' President of France. a
[ Ts FXEJfCH PEOPLE at tie ChwxJ> Jt Mjrt, c
! ON THE ti
FRENCH-NEW-YEAR'S DAY-Sept. n. I
" Thanks be to thee, Soveriegn Regula- si
tor of the deltiny of the Uuiverfe ! Let C
praifl- be rendered unto thee ! —France is a c
Rep : 4lie ! . f,
" For many ages., despotism had banili- c
ed the genius of liberty, which in ancient d
times covered the {hores of the Mediterra- ei
nean with flouriihing republics. If fume tl
nations, at dillant periods, and at long inter- d
Tals have thrown off the yoke of an inditfid- IV
tial, they soon bowed themselves before a ti
new mailer,or submitted tothenot lefadebaf- ti
ing rod of aristocracy and fauaticifm. Sla- ai
very, fuperflition, and ignorance, had sub- ri
jested mankind. No where on our, centi- h<
nent did real liberty and political equality p.
exist. cr
*' When more frequent communications th
began to reconcile nations to each other, L
and when the torch of philosophy was rapid- us
ly enlightening them, their rulers, terrified th
at the progress of reason, formed an impi- co
ous league to eietinguilh knowledge, or to ur
erapoifon its effefts. Uniting the links of pi
servitude which each of them had separately vH
in his hand, they forged, amidlt the gloom br
of their political dungeons, an oppressive ha
chain, which was soon to have encircled the lig
glebe. Their fanguiuary quarrels about the to
portions of this chain which each of there Pa
claimed to preserve, served only to make ga
them more unanimous in their disposition co
to aggrevate its weight and to hasten th# pr<
execution of their plan. They believed dil
their work was completed ; and it was roi
BROKEN IN PIECES ! 0 {
" Our miseries made us burst forth in a am
moment : an ardour hitherto unknown ele- fefi
vated our hearts ; and, liberty,, thy power- ter
fnl voice vefuunded over France. The rav- gai
ifhing found was re-echoed by the whole na
tion. The posterity of the ancient Gauls Fr
are no longer (laves ; they are restored to get
manhood. With persevering labour they the
have sapped the thione, and all those do- len
minations which, by their union and ttrri- get
ble force, had overpowered' them for many h©<
ages. Scarcely three years have passed, Vii
and the mail ancient monarchy, the molt lov
powerful, and in appearance, the moil dur- to
able, is levelled with the dust !
" Thinks be rendered unto thee, Sove- dy,
reign Aibiter of the Univrrf: > Thanks be *''
5'- rendered unto tltee ! Framet ■. A Rsrue
-3- lic !
md " Unworthy Frenehm«n, however, that
extravagant composition of bafentfs and of
id, pride, ibd from their homes, and lifted up
>ri- arms againil their country. They urged
icy the power# of ivjrope to embrace their
m- quarrels. These, enraged to fee the chain
fa- which had cost them so much labour, fud
eir denly interrupted and broken, ad«anced
led with irnwenfe forces to eftablilh the m'onar-
If chy, or rather to divide among themselves
lo- its ruins. France was about to fall again
■d, into the abyss of despotism ! But she is fuf
en tained by thy all powerful hand ! The voice
nd of war was heard to resound : every where
iig arms were forged ; and our valiant youth,
;s. animated by thy Divine Spirit, formed, as
ut it were by cnchantmeut, formidable armies.
" n - Thou placeit in the hearts of our soldiers
o, that burning courage which teaches them
a to brave every danger, and vanquish every
cf op P ofition._ Thou giveft to their chiefs
:f- that tranquil valour and prtfence of rriind
as which enables thenj to forefee every event,
!ie and to accomplish every enterprize they un
c- dertake. The lignal was given, and the in
m numeraole cohorts of our enemies were fcat
ly tered by republican bayonets, as columns of
v- thick fmokc are diflipated by the winds of
le a tempest.
ft " Ambit'on and profligacy, profitted by
; the troubles infeperable from movements so
v an d multiplied, elevated for a mo
le raent the frightful throne of terror on the
wreck of that of monarchy : but the true
Inends of liberty, dir»dted by thee, in one
c- day made it disappear. Our trophies were
a- now successively embtllifhed with the olive
le of A constitution was formed;
ie and, notwithstanding the efforts of royalifm
and aristocracy, rendered abortive in the
)- glo,rious day ot the 13th Vendemaire, that
Is constitution, duly executed in all its paru,
0 fixed the lot of France. Then every eslight
d cned patriot exclaimed in the joy of his
a heart, Thanks be rendered unto thee, Se
)- vercign Arbiter of the deftifly of the Uni
f- verse ! Thanks be rendered unto thee !
). Francois a Republic !
ie " however, the new
triumph obtained over ourremaining enemies
y —no-twithftanJing that the molt obftinatt
of thfin were at last compelled to listen to
>- propolitions of Peace—notwithstanding that
h an aftonifliing internal amelioration proved
e the excellence of the Republican Conftitu
fion—attempts were yet made to deftrby it,
aud to re-elevate the Monarchy 1 Our ene
-- mies did not employ force ; their arms were
s intrigue and corruption, the eonfequence of
a their perfidious combinations. Traitors,
placed in every authority, and even in the
y Supreme Executive Power, having under
y mined our fecial, edifice, no longer conceal
a ed their plan of subversion. Another mo
ment, the Gonftitution would have been t>-
s verthrown, Liberty annihilated, Republi
- cans murdered, and France, rendered the
prey u{ L,ivii vVar, would have been cover
, ed with dead'bodies aud ruins ! But thy
, paternal eye was never withdrawn from us.
- At the moment when the state verged to de
-1 ftru&ion, thou didst replace ft on its basis :
- Thou didst excite the just indignation oftlw
1 Defenders of the Country. Thou haft
f it ruck the Confpiratois with blindness and
, terror ! while thou didst enlighten the path
, of the Friruds of Liberty, and inspire them
. with a noble intrepidity ! On the immortal
■day of the 18th Fruftidor, thou didst con
found the traitors; Uiou madeft them fall
1 into the Clares they had prepared for the de
finition of the Friends of Liberty ; The
Republican. Connitut:o» was
by the very efforts that had been made ta
accomplish its ruin. - But thanks be render
ed unto thee, Sovereign Arbiter of the U
niverse !—Thanks be rendered unto thee!
France is a Republic.
"Now complete thy work; consolidate
fui ever this Republic. The ensfnies of
Constitution of the third year lurk in con
cealment, but they are still watchful ; its
friends, then, ihould not rtpofe in falfe fe.
curity. May our country be incellantly uri
d r thy proteiiion, and may wc be direct
ed by thy counsels ! May the grandeur of
the meafurcs adopted by the Ltgiflativ, Bo
dy keep pace with the wisdom of its Law* 1
May the Executive Direftory d.splay an ac
tive and unremitting vigour in their execu
tion, and in the conduct of Government ;
and may all the Ci«il aud Military Autho
rities firmly concur with them ! May our
hearts be always open to humanity and com.
-passion; but may a strict, though enlight
ened iuftice, prevent us from "weakening
the effect of the means appointed by the
Law, and ordered by the Government! Let
us never forget, that if atrocity must ihock
the feelings of men, feeblenefs provokes their
contempt ; and that, to prevent foroe evils
unfortunately inevitable, it would again
plunge France into that abyss of horrors of
which we would wish to efface the remem
brance ! But, ribovs all, may those who
have been tnifled by their paffwns be en
lightened by thy jnflice, and atlength ceaftf
to mistake the spirit ofFaftion for that of
Patriotifrn. Far from us be those who re
gard thefervices which they render to their
country as titles l>v which to make it their
property. Far from us be those who caa
d-.icern the Republic in those nn'y who sur
round them—who decide on the prosperity
of the State merely by the degree of power
and influence of which themieives are pol
fefftd, and regulate their views of public in
tercft by a companion with, their private
gains.
" May, thou, on the contrary, inspire all-
Frenchmen with feutimeats grand, elevated,
generous, diiinterefted ! —Propogate among
them a spirit of peace and mutual benevo
lence, a itrong attachment to truth and l»-
gwuout openness, a rooted averiion to falfe
hood and hypocrisy, a profound refped for
Virtue, a marked hatred to Vice, an ardent
love of Liberty, and an unlimited devotion
to the cause of their country.
" France fi-.all theji be for ever frtz, hap,
py, triumphant and peaceful !
" May tlicfe our ardent rows be r-cccnv -plifhed! May cyr remotefl dcfccndants, c
qually proud and grateful for the indepen- :
i',tnce which will be faithfully tranfmitled
j by vheir fathers, continue to ?de'c>r;.?e, in 1
honour of a wife and solidly eftafclilhed Con- 1
ftitution, all the Festivals of Liberty; and
in the inidft of thediverfions and music which i
will embellifa them, may they a tlioufand
times, in an eiFufion of heart-felt joy, pour ]
forth these acclamations of gratitude ! ! "
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
-
TUESDAY NOVEMBER 28.
, ~l* /TR, S. Smith appeared to day for
.lVi. the fa'ft time this feflion.
Mr. Otis presented the petition of Jona
than Jackfoii, Supervisor of the State of
Massachusetts, ttating that the duties of his
office were so greatly encreafed that he found
it impossible to make his returns to govern
ment in due time, without assistance ; he
rprjys,- therefore, to be allowed additional
compensation, that he may be enabled to
employ a clerk or (w, as necessity may re
quire.—Referred to the Secretary of the
Trcafury.
Mr. O. also presented the petition of De
• borah Gannett, praying compensation for
bher fetvicesas a fojdicr in the revolutionary j
war, under the name of Robert Shirtliff, ;
flat ing, that (he is able to produce certificates
not only cf her having served, but also of j
her having been wounded. —Referred to :
the Committee of Claims.
Mr. Coit moved for the order of the day j
. oil the reported answer to the Prelident's
Speech.
The motion being agreed to, the House
accordingly resolved itfelf into a committee
of the whole upon that fubje£t, Mr. Dent
in the Chair, and the Address having been
read through by the Chairman (as given in
our paper of yesterday) it again read
by paragraphs. The four firft were read,
without any objefhon being offered to them.
The fifth being gone through,
Mr. Pinckney said he had to propofea
small alteration to this clause. He wished
to the latter part of it a little less harlh.
Instead of faying, " we shall infill upon the
fame justice from others," &c. bethought
it would have the fame efi'eft, and the terms
Vould be less objedlionable, if the passage
ran thus, " nothing shall be wanting on our
part to obtain the famejuftice from others,"
&e. The expreflion used, he said, might be (
- perfefUy juftifiable, but if we could obtain :
i what we wished, without the poflibility of
I .giving offence, he thought that mode ought
to he preferred. It was on this account that
he wiihed the phraseology to be changed.
✓Mr. VINABtE' would suggest an amend- 1
• ment, which he thought would produce the
effeft wished by the gentleman just fat down,
without changing the phraseology so much I
as he had proposed : The way in which this
might be done, would be by flriking out
the word " insist," and inserting that of
expeft.
Mr. Pikckney did not think this amend
ment would produce the effeiS he wiflied.—
I Expeftation, he said, might be entertained,
without making an effort to obtain the ob
jeft. We had already expeffed'z long time
without effeft. He wished to express the
fame firmnef6 which the committee intended
by their report ; but, at the fame time to
avuid any thing like harshness. If th* effeft
of the proposed substitute had appeared to
be the fame, he fhonld have been sorry to
have cavilled about words.
Mr. Rvtlißc e a* a member of-the
committee W U:.??rt«l the address, he did
not feel tenacious as to the wcraing oi i*.
" At firft, hie thought with his colleague, who
proposed the amendment, that the word in/JJI
was* rather harsh ; but, upon a little reflcc
_ tion, his objeftions to the phrase were remo
ved. Indeed, be thought the proposed a
mendment would make the pafiagc stronger
than it was in the original. They might
' " insist, he said in argument ; looking upon
the treaty as a good one, they might infill
upon its execution ; but if it were net to
be effe&ed without goingto war, they m:ght
afterwards relinquish it. The amendment
he thought more forcible. It said nothing
shall be wanting to obtain,'&c. Which would
"be to fay, we look upon the Treaty as a
good one, and nothing ihall be wanting on
our part to obtain its fulfilment. The words
might be even considered to fay, that we are
determined to have the treaty carried into
«fft£l, though war should be the price of
the determination.
Mr. Venable said, it was an objcdtion
to the proposed amendment that the lame
phraseology occnrred in the last paragraph.
He thought, therefore, it would be belt to
change the words in the way he had suggest
ed ; for though the word e X pj3 was less
harsh, ke thought it equally forcible with
Bayard was in favour of the amend
ment of the gentleman from S. Carolina,
and if the fame phraseology had beeni propo
► fed in the feleft committee, he should there
have supported it. He did not think the
fu'oftitute which had been proposed by the
• gentleman from Virginia would produce the
effeft intended by the gentleman from S.
Carolina. It was the intention of the com
mittee who repotted the address, to fay
something on the fubjeft; but the proposed
substitute said nothing. As to the objection
of the gentleman, on account of the fame
phraseology occurring in another part of the
'iddrefa, there would be no difficulty iniec
- tifving that, so 33 to produce that variety
which the gentleman fcemcd so delnous of
hj Mr! 'Dayton (the Speaker) approved of
,be amendment of the gentleman frorri S.
Carolina, but not from the reasons which
that gentleman had urged m support ot it,
but for tbofe which his eolleague hac. pro
duced againit it ; not because it was n,iore
smooth, but because it contained more of
liucifion and firmnefs. He tnou-ht, in this
refoeft, this country had been trifleo w.t.i,
and any opinion expre-ffed by them upon
Liiij fut]ii£t, ought to be done with a firm
riefs of tens. ~ ✓
Mr. Livixgston fcid, ?.s gertlerrseri
thought it aeceP.ary to give the reasons of
their vote npon the occaiion, he would just
mention his. IF it were intended to be in
ferred by the phrafeolugy used upon this oc
casion, as some gentlemen seemed to fup
pofe,that they were difpifed to go to war in
support of the executive in their confirm:-
tion of the negoeiation with Spain, he was
not prepared to fay this for his constituents.
He did not think the l'ubjefl was fufficiently
matured to give this decision. He consi
dered the proposition as a general one, and
preferred the amendment of the gentleman
from S. Carolina to the orginal—He did
not, indeed, think it matcirally different,
until he heard the objections urged against
it by a gentlemSn who was upon the Com
mittee (Mr. Rutledge). Hs bad said they
might injijt in argument. How infill in ar
gument ? What had that House to do with
argument? Were they to carry on the
Treaty? No. All the infiftlng they could
(hew m;ift be by aSs and not by arguments.
The Mr. Pinckney's amend
msnt was put and carried, there being six
ty two members in the affirmative.
The remainder of the address was then
gone through, without further observation.
Mr. Hauler enquired whether it would
now be in order to go back to the firft par
agraph. On the chairman's informing him
it would, he said lie thought there was an
expreflion in the latter part of that para
graph which would require alteration. He
meant that part which spoke of the law
which contemplates contagious sickness at
the feat of government. He supposed the
committee meant to recommend fueh a law,
as he believed there was not a law of that
kind at present in existence. He therefore
moved to flrike out the words which had
this reference.
Mr. Otis said, hii friend from S. Caro
lina had overlooked the law in question,
which was pasTed in 1794, inconsequence
of the contagious sickness which had been
experienced in this city the preceding year,
and which gave to the President of the Unit
ed States, the power of convening Congress
in any other place.
Mr. Harper acknowledged his mistake,
and that his proposed amendment was there
fore unnecessary.
Mr. Harper said, he wished to propose
an alteration in the phraseology of the fourth
clause. It did not appear to him to be very
polite, to talk to other Nations about their
jealousy and avarice ; and whatever might
be the latitude proper to be taken in private
debate, when the House expressed itfelf
publicly, he thought all unnecefTary harlh
nefs (hould be avoided. He wished, there
fore, to flrike out some words, and intro
duce others, so that the passage instead of
reading as at present, might be thus express
ed : •' and white the exleti/ion of our Naviga
tion and Trade may excite jealousy and tempt a
•varice five are, of."
Mr. Bayard was opposed to this amend
ment He did not think the phraseology
could give umbrage to any Nation whate
ver, lince no Nation could apply the phrase
to itfelf. If the gentleman would confidcr
the paragraph, he would find, that it was
hot said that any particular Nation was jea
lous or avaricioue; but merely, if any Na
tiofl were possessed of jealtfufy and avarice,
o\fr Navigation and Trade would naturally
excite their jealousy and t eir.pt their avarice.
Any general sentiment might as well be ob-
Jested to as this. When it was said that
the riches of one man t;mpt the avarice of
others, it could not possibly be inferred
th't asy pjriicaiar man was pointed at.
Mr. Harper did not thii>k the amend
ment of very great importance, though of
fufficient to be adopted. He did not think
any nation could juflly take the expreflion
to itfelf, or rhat they tould with propriety
be offended at it ; but he thought it bettet
to avoid all harsh expressions. He thought
a proper degree of spirit, and even ofaagei
and revenge, might be (hewn, without un
becoming expressions ; not that he meant tc
fay the expreflion in question was tinbecom
ing, but he thought it was haifh. H(
was alfoof opinion thatthc discriminations 01
his friend on the fubjeft of jealousy and.ava
rice were more nice than solid.
The queflon was then put on Mr. Harper's
amendment, and negatived 47 to 33.
The Committee then rofc and reportec
the address with one amendment. lh<
House took it up aad agreed to the a
mendment.
Mr. BaVard then moved an amendment
to correft the phraseology of the last para
graph, so as not to claih with the amend
ment ; bat the speaker informing him th<
amendment could not be~ introduced withou
a recommittal the Address was agreed t(
without further amendment.
Mr. Otis moved, that the Speaker, at
tended by the House, shall present the faic
address to the President of the Unite*
States ; and that a committee be appointei
to wait upon the President to know whei
andwhere it will be convenient to him t<
receive the fame.—Agreed.
Mr. Hap.per moved that the House re
solve itfelf into a committee of the whole, o
the report of the secretary of State, on th
memorial of Antonia Carmichael, widow 0
William Carmichael, deceased ; which be
ing agreed to, the House resolved itfelf ir.t
a committee accordingly, and the repot
was read from the chair.
It appears that the late William Carm
chael (formerly a delegate in Congrefsfror
Maryland) was appointed secretary of leg:
tion to Mr. Jay, minister plenipotentiary fc
negociating a treaty with the king of Span
in "September, 17 79 ; that the coinmiffion
I to the fecrttaries to foch ministers, at ths
! time, dire&cd that in cafe of the death c
j the minister, or necessary abfcnce, they ai
' to takecharge of allpublicaffairsin hishand:
' and to reside at such court ; that on the 4t
: of O(Sober, 1779, Congress refolvtd th:
each of the minillers plenipotentiary be a
lowed at the rate of 2,50 c!. per annum, an
each ot their ten«tir;;3 at :..t ratecr iO v .:.;. ex
ia full f -i thrir fervic.3 and expe.nccs res/. fu;
peCiivtly : yjpr ?'Jr. Jay w«s called 'frpah Ja
Spain to Paiis v May 17-82, to in tlie
negoiir.tiotK. >;f peace, Ic.avi'njr the jc
.of his miSio'i i-i, Spain to Mr. Carnjiehat*.;
that he continued at the courtjof Spsiir ua- au
til he received a formal ippoiJßr.cn t in A- w1
pril 179 C», of charge des aflT-uW, tinder the in
new government of the United States.—• in
Hence it follows that Mr. C. was entitled of
not only to the salary of locol. sterling as , an
secretary, but to iuch other allowances as an
were proper to be made to a charge des as- ■ w'
fair:, or minister of the United States at a to
foreign court ; for though the salaries were : fu
laid to be in full for their ftrvices and ex- ! ar
pences, yet it was ufnal to make othef al- ; vs
lowances for contingent expences ; that at j w
the court of Spain, foreign minifterj were ; th
obliged to attend the court at their five dif- I ra
ferent places of refidenue, it each of which ' g;
he was under the necefiitv of hiring a house ; ki
the Secretary of State therefore reports that j ft
the following extraordinary expences in Mr. , m
Carmiehael's account should be allowed : je:
1783 to 1789. 1. Prefenls to for- ' ( d'
ters and other k
servants of the
mini]}, ofjlate,
&c. eight years, ri
at 18 4Q reals of d
t>ellon a year, 14,720. d
2. Expenfesofpre- o
fentalion at court, 3680. I
1782 to 1789. 3. Expenses of il- tl
luminal ions, 7 ' b
years, 6,028. 17 tl
t 1782 tc 1789. 4. For pojlage of : a
letters, Byears, 26,103. •] i'
Do. 5. Prefenls to let- ; I
ter-carriers, 8 a
years, at the c
King's country n
feats, 1,562. 6 a
Do. 6. Expenses of pa
per, quills, ink, I
&c. 8 year), 10,870.
Do. 7. Expenses of co
pying different a
papers 8 years, 9,686. <!
8. Expenses of a
journey from \
Madrid to Pa- c
ris, and lacl to i
Madrid, 16,010. t
9. For houfe-rtnt r
at the Sitios, 1
, (country reji- I
dence tf the 1
ling) at Aran- t
juts,La Grange 1
L'Efcurial, V t
Le Pardo, 8 r
years, 7 6,515 19 1
t
165,175. 8 1
t
Equal at 20 reals to a doll. to dols. 8,258.76 ;
A concurrence wiih this report was advocated j
by Mfflrj. Harper, Hartley, Pinckney, Sprigg, (
Gallatin, Bayard, Craik, and T. CUibora, on the
grouad of equity and humanity. It was oppefed [
by MeOra. Williami, Macon, and Coit; they with- 1
ed for further time and information on the fubjeft, 1
and for that purpose, Mr. Williams moved that
the committee rife, in order that it might be dis
charged from a farther confWeration of the fubjeft,
and tlut the Viufiuefj might be referred to the com
mittee of claims. It was urged by the fri-nds of
the report, that farther information could not be
had than was contained in the report, aud that the 1
principle might as well now be decided up*n as nt
any diflaet period ; that being a cafe founded on
equity an£not on law, it was not a proptr (übjcA
to be transferred to the tommittee of claim'-
They urged also, that a deby of j'.ftice was in (
this, a« in most other cases, a denial of it ; that
tlcc'ellatet of the widow were mortgaged, and had
been kept from sale from the 1 opek of feceiving
what flae petitioned for from coiigtvfs. At length
th« motion for ihe committee to rife was put and 1
negatived, there being only seven vote in favor of
it. A resolution was th«u agreed te, authorizing
the accounting officeis of the trralury to fettle the
account, and a committee appointed to bring in a
bill.
Mr. I.ivinoston that the petition of An
drew Pipfiin, and the report therecn, be referred
Jo the committee of claims.—Agreed.
Mr. Otis, from the committee to
wait upon the President, tohr.ow when and where
it would be conveniint to liirn to rec»ive the ad
dress in answer to his fpeccb, reported that they
had attended to that fervic*, and that it would be
convenint to him to receive it at his houl'e, to
morrow at IX o'clock.
Mr. .Swanwick present 'd the petition of Ed
ward Thompson, afuldier in the late war, for re
lief, which, Leing read, he moved to be referred
t*the committee of claims; but the chairman of
that connuitttec Dating, that the famepetition was
reported npon last feflion, and leave given totle
petitioner to withdraw his papers, the m-tionw.a»
negatived, there only being 18 votes in favor of
the reference. Adjourned.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, Nov. 28.
FATAL INSANITY.
Yeftcrday about noon Ferdmad Leowen
ftern, aged about 40, and a young woman
by the name of Elizabeth Folkenhan, aged
24, were found dead in a bed at Miss Eol
kenhan's in the Bowery.
On this truly (hocking discovery a jury
1 of inquest was immediately fuanmoned, who
found, by letters which were on the table
■ from each party, aud other corroborating
i circumflances, that they had mutually a
: greed to die in this way—on which they
■ adjudged, that Leowenftern firft (hot Eliza
■ beth Folkenhan, by her consent, and then
1 (hot himfelf.
It appears, that her filter had sent to the
house by a negro buy, but could not get ad
- mittance j and while the door was breaking
1 open, the discharge of a pistol was heard ;j
- and 011 afeending, both th<* man aud woman j
r wer« found dead, and two pistols appeared '
, in such a position as convinced the Jury of j
s thejuftnefs of their verdiCt. The parties !
t are f'id to have been disappointed lovers.
f Yejlerday arrivedJbip Independence, Taylor i
: from Amjlerdam, "and the fhr. Regulator, from \
, Malaga.
1 We yctlerday received Jamaica papers to the
t 14.1 hult.
KINGSTON, (Jam.) OA. 7.
3 Saturday afternoon, Edmund Swiney wa
U-]S2tC 17R9,
r«;;: . : ;»"< "■ ■:v. n. ■ ■
fnan" *m ! •■•.:, -■■■■> : >■-•'. fv-r the martifr o?2&<j
' . : 5
A I v :r f:wn to. ; N. Mole, dated the < '
19th nit. fay 3, 1 T'
'■Two d'av '• go. I was witness to the |
audacity „f the Brigand Barges, one of | "
which c-rac into th:- h-irbjr, St r midnight, '
and'cut out an A roertcan v-'flel, and isi th?
morning three of them were fcen .bearing -
offjtheir prizes in- triumph. The Adventure ' l
and Gorki's boats, were inftaptiy manned, r
and with the Lively, sent jjp pnrfuit of them
while a party of military was sent by land, "
to prevent their landing.—Their being pur- j ;
sued obliged them to abandon their prize,
and to effect a retreat, after plundering the
vefiel and almofl; killing the mailer.—The
wi»d being too light, two of thena got into,i
the platform, the otherladen with the spoils,
ran alhore, and, as is their cu(toi*V the Bri
gands mounted the rocks with their mus
kets, shouting " five la Republique?' not
suspeCting our troops had pofleffion of the
mountain above them, and who .rather un
expectedly, gave them 3 vollies, aud rudied
[ down upon them ; Bos the Brigands were "
killed, 4 taketi, and only 2 escaped."
Odtober 14.
The Spanish cartel fchoonrr la Adam, ar
rived on Monday, in 3 days from St. Jago
de Cuba, with'difpatches for the comman
der in chief, and brought the following pris
oners, viz. ; —Capt. Cltland, of the (hip
Duke of Buccleugh ; captain Roberts, of
the (hip Margaret ; captain Quinton, of,the
brig John, from Halifax ; capt. Welsh, of
the (hip Acquable, from the samp place ;
: also seven fesmen, taken in prizes belong
j ing to his majesty's (hips.—Dr. Muirhead,
i Dr. Ketterefs, and a Mr. John Defmoline,
a pafleager, taken on board the brig Sophia,
capt. Shirley, from Norfolk, and 35 sea
men.—She reports thatallSpanifh privateers
are called in.
Ext raft of a letter from Port-au-Prince, da
ted the 18 th of September.
"We are plunged into a chaos, where I
am afraid it will give our government a good
dealof difficulty to comprehend fumethings.
Tbfy confound Rigaitd, and all his crimes,
with those of Santhonax, and do not per
ceive that those of the former, are perfectly
independent of the latter, who was put on
board a merchant ve(Tel, called the Indian,
mounting 20 guns, on the 21ft of July, by
his black colleague, Toufiaint, in order to
be conveyed to France Touffaint has
kept Raymond, and has sent for Rourae,
to form the Colonial Direftory, which
makes us presume that thefs eircuwftances
took place before the Arret of the directo
ry, which fufpendi from its funCtions the di
rectory at the Cape, from the 22d of July ;
that is to fay, one day later than the em
barkation of Santhonax.—Touffaintgovcrns
the Cape, in quality of Generaliffimo.—Ri
gaud is matter of Pitit Goav«, Grand
Goave, and Jacmel ; he has carried fire and
destruCtion through every plantation in that
quarter. It was believed that Rigaud was
in peffefiion of Leogane, but it appears to
be falfe.
—«i n i «ww—W
Xlje duetts.
PHILADELPHIA,
WFnNF.SDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 19.
This day at 12 q'clock, the House of
Representatives waited on the Prefiderit of
the United States at his own House, where
the Speaker presented their Answer to his
Addrtfs to both Houses, ffee yesterday's
Guz. and the minutes published to-day.]
To which the Prelident made the following
reply :
Gentlemen of the Heufe of Rcprefent lives,
I RECEIVE this addrefjs f omtheHoufe
of Representatives of the United States with
peculiar pleasure.
Your approbation of the meeting of Con
: grefs in this City, and of those other mea
sures of the Executive authority of govern
ment communicated in my address to both
houses at the opening of the feflion, afford
me great fatisfaCtion ; as the (trongelt dclire
. of inyheart is to give fatisfaCtion to the peo
ple and their Representatives by a faithful
' discharge of my duty.
The confidence you jfat in the sincerity
1 of my endeavours, and in the unanimity of
j the people, does me much honour, and gives
f me great joy.
I rejoice in that harmony which appears
in the sentiments of all the branches of the
government, on the importance of our com
merce, and our obligations to defend it, as
well as in all the other subjeCts recommen
ded to your consideration, and sincerely con
gratulate you and our fellow-citizens at
* large, on this appearance, so auspicious to
1 the honor, intercft and happiness of thena
* tion.
JOHN ADAMS.
United States, 1
r Nov. 29, 1797. S m
= . APPOINTMENT.
' DoCtor Benjamin Rush, to be Treafu
" rer of the Mint —vice DoCtor Nicolas
1 Way, deceased.
I Married, ontlie 18th inflar.t, by the Rev. Dr.
Green, Mr. Samuel Richard-, merchant, of
e this city, to Mrs Mary Morgan, daughter
. of Mr. William T. Sni th, of this cit .
, , on Thurrday evening lift, by (he
* Rev. Dr. Blarkwell, Mr. Samuel Axford, to
' ' Mils Molly Palmfr. both of this city.'
II j , last Sunday even ne, by the R.tv.
Mr. Ale cromliie, Mr. Damihl BuFFH-R, to
'f • Miss Kitty Phillvr, daughter of Mi.' An
:s ! drew I'hiller,' of this city- ;
I "The City Dancing Aflembty,
' ! Will 'commence >,l O'EllerVllotsl, on
I Tbur'fday December :'.h.
TliomasM. Willing Stephen Kihgfton
'" \ James Gjhfr.n William Read
iit-iiry WlkefT Kifcorf E. Griffith
, j i:ci- 29th. d S I
r,%7"GPv Al v TA\( > .
'.' ..IT •''■'(. rr; .*.,Y i«fc?m| ti:.* L-'di'j-
'.V t : cp». n of 'thv ii.it;', ift<»t ?hc prcpo!;-* h". :in;j
Tour-C«;>2sCl.P.'Vf ;;t-<IbAL:LS dittjtng the \\'.;i:'er.
.Si;: Dollar 9 • finhfcriber,. for one Ticket o*
admittance chi. in*"-the Lnf.ju,
No XiM'cribers Vkkct* tr&nsferrablv*.
• wo s a € ng'.C I id.cl, .
This C oik . r,t / > begin at ]ra?f pa ft fix, and 'jW
BVncl to nttiMid ,'jor tHifi I$al! at eight— the e::pcr.c.:
of which Mrs Gr attan cr£ j g-s to mfc-harg-\
The Concerts wjj} as foos as the Bandar
riT«fi;psTJ NfW York.
n»-veivih r 29. , £iw'
: NOW LANDINQ,
{-'rem on board the (hip Farmer, lying at Harper's
• ' Wharf,
Claret in lihds.
iirtto in cases
S.'utcrr.c \V'.t.<£ in do.
For Sale, apply to :
John Whiteftdes & Co.
No. i.? 3, Market-ttrcet,
Alfa, on hand,
Bourt'eaux Brandy in pipc»
Fine olrt Antigua Rum
A few cases of Claret, of a fupcrior quality.
novemVr ag. §
IMPORTED
IN the (hip Aurora, from Hamburgh, and for
sale by the SuJ'fc.riber.
B d ticks, 8-4, 9-4. wo 10 4-
A quantity of Tapes, N o. 13 andis.
And on HtinJ, t
German black Ribbon, No. 3 ar.d 4.
George Pennock.
novembirr 2 r w
~~ TO~EE~SOLD,
Or Exchanged far Property in the Country,
r l hat thrgc It ory Brick House,
No. 157', north Third ftrcet. Apply at thcot
fic- of this Gir.-tte. Nov. -20- w&a4W
Bi virtue oi * writ t ieti raciau to me circled,
will be cxpoictt to Public Sale, at my Office,
tvace, or SafTafras ftrt-ft, no. 117, on Monday,the
4th day of December ritxt, at 11 o a. a:.
UP J groc* 'Button*, aHort^a
2 do. Shirt (Jo.
• •> bags Imperial do.
4 sf-4 dozen shoe Buckles
2 pair > ucklts with Latchets
4 i-» dozen Knives and lorhfi
29 5-I2 do. wofftcd Hole, aborted
17 2-11 do. printed linen Handkerchief
1 piece clear Lawn
18 1-4 lb sewing SHI:
2 pieces Mack Lawn (• ripe)
5 1-4 yards flriped Caflimere
24 groce, 5 1-2 dozen Tape, affortetj
1 dozen Konfoprctties
I 1-2 groce'Fully Garters
10 pieces black twilled Galoon
503 do. Ribbon, affortei
13 do. Bandanoes
4 3-4 lb- gloss thread
82 do. coloured
6 pieces 4-4 white French Net
28 do Gamze
I do. fpottcd Mode
I do. drab Sattin
i do. white Flannel
* I do. yellow do.
I a yards Parlatian
3 white (ilk Shawls
13 1-2 doz. fiik and cotton do.
p 10 piecet Ferret
3 do. Shalloons
I doz. black leather Gloves
1 do. bed beaver do.
2 pieces Buckram
9s 1-2 doz. English Fans
5 do. ladies tinjfel Bands
2 lb* scarlet worsted ChorJ
I 2 groce white cottoi do.
15 M chapel needles, efforted
578 yards mixed plains
18 i-ad6z. worsted Socks
19 lb. Twist
I I-4doz.hrft silk ft?y I.acfet.
$ do, best ferret do.
1 do. iron Candleflicks
I piece black elastic (stripe)
7 do. cap Border.
Seiz- d and lak«n in execution ss the property of
Jofr.ih William Gibbe, and Will am Gibbs, and wiU
be fold by
William Nichols, Marflial.
Marjbafs Cffi e t ")
"November 1797. j
nevember *0
dancing.
Mr. FRANC TS,
OF the New i !icatre, informs the
public, that he to Inofrr mcanii to cortinue
his Dancing School in conjun&ioc with Mr. Byrn* f
l ut will open it ftparately early in Deecmber, and
hepes flill :o receive the accuflomed patronnge with
which he has been honore J, and which it will b*
his con:iant endeavor to dtferve.
Private parties may be inftrufted at his own
house, So. 70, north Eighth fireet.
noTcmber 2y.
At O'EUers's Room,
THIS EVENING, November 29,
Meflrs. CHALMERS & WILLIAMSON,
Will prtftnt the citizen« with a new fpeciei o£
entertainment, called
The Tablet,
Or, JUST IN TIME.
Reading*, Recitations, and Songs, is 3 parts.
PART 1.
Overture—Grand Piano Forte, Mr. Carr-
The 1 lermit, fcrious reading, Mr. Chalmers.
Song—The Tar of all Weathers, Mr. Williamfon.
Fortune and Folly , recitation, Mi . Chalmers.
Song—On that lone bank where Lubin died, Mr.
1 Williamfon.
PART 11.
Srnata—Piano Forte, Mr. Cfcrr.
Hypochondriac ; or, the Cobler, a comic tale»^
Mr. Chalmers.
Sorg—Jacky and the Gow, Mr. Williamfoa.
Johnny Gilpin, a comic tale, Mr. Chalmers.
Song—A Sailor's Life at Sea, Mr. Williamfon.
PART 111.
Pot Pouri-r-Piano Forte, Mr. Carr.
Three Warnings, reading, Mr Chalmers.*
> Sorg—The Caledonian Jdaid, Mr. Williamfon.
Notoriety; or, All for a Name, Mrs Chalmers.
Song —Nancy, j or, The Sailor's Jourual, Mr.
Williamfon.
Tom King, or Monsieur Tonfon, a Comic Talc,
Mr Chain*crs.
Song—The Hobbies, Mr. Williamfon.
Price of adr.;. ffion One Dollar.— Tickets
to Lc had at:he bar of the hotel, zt Carr's Musical
0 Repcfitory, and at Carey's Book-store, Market
fireet.
To b ?gin at half past fix o'clock precisely.
3 Particular attention willbe paid tokeep the roam
- w^rm.
All Persons
Having any demamis aj?a ; nft the Eftete of the
n bte Captain. Giorge Irwin, are rt-qutfied to
bring in their arcounts pioperly att on or
before the firft dry of January next enfuin",
and thnfe who are iiidtbtcd to laid . Itate are
h. licitfd to n akc im,mfdia;e payment to
SAKAK IRWIN, Adm.ultrat i".
Nov. 29 179;. »FOR SAL * —by tbe SnasentßEßS,
An elegant ailbrtment of Madrafs
KAN:)k) r .RCHIK?S, by the bale.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS,
it. J Penn-'lruet.
FOR SALE,
_ I>r THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, firft quality, in
• pi . p "
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pipes
Lisbon WINr, in pipes
CI.OVLSand") f . . I. . . ,
NH'l MI G'i ( ol tnelstdaimportation, mboxes
Spauith Wool, in Bales, suitable for Hatters.
Witlings t? 3 Francis,
Penn-flrcet, No. it.
Nov - w&stf
FOR SALE," ~~ ~
kv the subscribers, No Jr, Penn-flriet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges }
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
r • CunJijlinv nf '
-punas, ci various qualities <k prices
Cofla s Punjum Clotlw
Sarahs Ouzz y do. ,
Hiintiiums Chareorni Dorea " i
tlt:-Ch;:h ,Tanjibs
Chintz mid Calicoes Muimula 1
fvlenoodys. Checks
?.i.:!iar3gonge» Patna HbUft.
Cinghariis Mulmul do. i :
C. :ixzc:;as Bandannois i '
Gurrshs Siflerfoy
Piiiiafcocs Choppa Rom'als
fca.ifati. s Snoty do. 1
t.iit',e Romals Perfiansof various colours '
Mcclt l'u!ic;.ts
* ico tons SUGAR
N 90.C03 lb. PEPPER.
Willings & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Ol the Ganges are row open and exposed to file st f
that co-nmodicus ilore tne north weft corr.»r ofi
Marb-i - o;| Fo-irtli street. m r o. !
LANDING, ~I .
From on board theftio Cleopatra, Samuel Newell, 5
coirmander, from Londop, . (
60 tons of the best clean Ruflia c
HEMP
60 raiksof bottled Uj'lO'.VN STOUT-
F orcale by the fubferibers, No. u, Per.n-flreet. '
Willings & Francis. i
.. OS[. jTf. d , • c
Jtifl arrived,
Jro.n rort-au-Piince, w d for Sale hj the
bers, No. %\ t Penn-ftreet,
61.2 hogihca l*,"^
,S£S (Prime Coft'ee
646 bags J
killings Iff Francis.
Ofl. »s. _
FOR SALM, ju
Jofepb Anthony & Co.
No. 5. Chefnut Sfrcct,
of choice Ecurdeaux Brandy, and ad
jpror.f, !an»!ed
*SO bales of Bourbon cotton a fuperier N
i) do. Surut, do ti o A
A quantity of heavy ba'ack pepper in bales
Bourbon Im! : go of thj iirlt quality
High proof Jamticalpirits
. m
Old London particular Madeira wine / In
do. market do C qr. calci. S f
New England rum in hogfteads
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret in cafe 9
Spermaceti candleaand ftrainM oil
Prime Boston beef
Choice Halifax Sajmon in bifrds and half barrels
Do. Herring in do do
Best Boston Mackarel in barrels of the fall far*.
New-England tow l : n«d
A few tons of Russia cordage R1
Ruflia feather beds
Clever and Timbthy feed in ?afks to
Long whale-bone lei
No. 1, 2, and 3, Boston fail duel: w<
A few cherts firft quality HyfanCea
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and ~
An invoice of .Qutch hol!o\/ glaft war*. *
N vembcr 8. d)w.
NOW LANDING,
At South-ftrect Wharf,
7be Cargo of the Ship Concord\ \
Captain Thompson, from Batavia. ftoi
About 300 ton; firft qualify Java Coffee (the
whole having been felefted)
80 tons Java Sugar, in eaniucrs and bags j
to legures of old Arrack
Js'utmegs, Mace and Cloves
FOR S/ILK Br
PETER BLIGHT.
lVho also offers For Sale,
>ft laftdsd from frip Amity, from Jamaica.
20« hhds Jamaica Sugar, and
170 do. do. Rum. rjr
novembtr it. J6w
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL presents his ifjci
moil refpe.ilfd compliments to his form- as -s
• • employers an I the citizens in general, and re- jest
turns his most fgrateful thanks, for the very Occ
bountiful encouragemem he has experienced for e d
these twenty-five years past, takes this opportu- "oi
nity of informing them, that his school will be th '»
open'd on Wednesday the 13d instant, at his ths
Elegant Ball Room,
South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and f c if
Walr.ut-ftreets. To bejjin at 10 in 'he morning Stat
for young ladies, and iin the evening for young urJ
g iwlemen.
fj Praaifing Balls will commence on Tuef- pub
day, 6th December, and be continued every this
Tuesday, during the season. Mel
Jnv - : "• 23Wtf. to p
Musical hifirument ManufaElory. lie e
16;, Arch-flrcet.
TO THE LOVERS OF HARMONY. W "1
HARPER,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has uodi
now ready for f.de, a few »f his new invented, Geo
and much admired fids board Piano Fortes, with Mar
Pedals,patent swell, l' nopahant and French harp ;lo d
stop, which for fe:tflbility of touch, brilliancy of Carl
tone, ftmplicity and durability of conflruaion, tfie e (tj[
faperioritf of which,he flatters himfelf/a fingle'tri- p c
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As they a g tl
are mariufaflured under his immediate infpeilion, s
ef the very feafoned materials, he can fell 0:1 | t Hr^.
reasonable ttrms forCAsu. luilnim.'nts repaired, I a „j*
tunej,&c.
N. B. Second hand PiAno Fortes taken in ex- j al ,'
ehauge for new.
nivcmlcr 18. i.iwjmo.
All Per fans who are indebted to i»a
theeflale of \Vjjli.iam Htrjiiam, fen. of Phtla
delphia, deceased, are requested to make speedy <
payment; and tliofe who have any demand ia- * 1 *
fai<t e.lxte, " .li ;; -de to profeilt th-ra, nro
perly attt fled, to the * : ' lt " '
William 1 (1a 7. &
Robert Htpham. J-- Executors,
Frariiis Bowes Sayre, J fame i
tovcmlter 6. i a P.'w ' phia.
' - • ' \ ■ v..
N O t i c :l-
TH?® tockin'Uters-iifthe.Jßaiik.of the'tihited
Si :'tr--, v r thai- astirdinj to the
figure of Inr.-.rperatiori iwirrst L'.cdtion for
twenty fve Directors will l>e held at the Bank
of u:e. United States i:i the City us Philadelphia,
on Mosi My the l;r!i day ot, jan'u'arynext at ten
1 o'clock in .he forenoon.
Ai'fl mrriunm to the Eleventh feilion nf :lu-
Bye I-Jw! t!:-■ Stockholders of the (aid p.. I.I;
arc hereby nofjfisd :o ailttnSle in general Meet
ing at the p'are on iVl'.iav the fee;ml
es .day of JanuaryT.exi at live o'clock in the li
vuning.
By order of the \'oar.l of d.'rcfVors,
C.-SIMPSON, C a frier.
Second fundamental Article. ,
_ Not more three fourths of tne Direfior?
uioiSce, jbr.'uhve of the rYffident,_fl!all bt|,e
---t l«;ji!>le tor the next fueceeding year, but thii
Director whs (hall be Present at the time i»i an
Elei9ior. Jfe nbrays be re-ekded.
Phjladey™ n0v.15.17Q7. ftE
S N one E. '
; To holders of J.4IJES GREENJ.EAF's
and E£)iVARB FOX's Engagements
j TN cocfaqijence of many having been prevent
j -led, from late u.',avoidable/.ircutriflances from
j obtaining 1 heir Certificates, agreeable to former
j notice. The Trustees now inf..rm them, they
1 are ready te iflue the fame to those who may ap
| ply within fixtyJaye, at No. 8 Ch-fnut Street,
; and thole who do not, will be cor.fidertd as rc
| lin<]ijifaing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided lor their payment.
,1 HENRY PRATT,
j THOMAS W. FRANCI-,
JOHN MILLF.Ii, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKfiit.
ne-vrmitr, S3. tuth&fim.
t f French Circulating Library.
r JOSEPH E. G. M. De Li GRANGE,
No. ne Walnut-street,
XN FORMS those who wish to to the only
means of becomimg pcrfeA in the French Lan
' 1i.14 jufl opened hi* Library, con
j, of upwards of volume*, the l»:l cal
-1 cuiated to aftord either uftfui inilru&ion, or plea
sure. The «ondition», with a catalogue
ol the Library, mty be seen at every
in town.
\ n. All tranflationa from and iato the French,
English and Spanifti Ltnguaje*, executed with ac
cural) nni d'ipatch. coim nov. 15.
I 1 or Sale by the Subfcri'ber,
White Phtrillas
Brown Holltnds -
VVliile Sheeting!
Dcr-vlafies -
Silesia bordered Handkerchiefs
Rtriptd Biilr.oulte
lilark Ribbons, No, 3 and 4
Glass Tutnblers, and'Lcoking GlaUss, in
in cafej, &c. etc.
George Penndck.
>:ovmber 6. -
FOR SALE^
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, rhe corner of Chefnut qnd Front ilreetr,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Jilfo, a general aflortment of Tools,
Giles and Materials, cosfiftin- of Clock Move
ments, eight <i»y acd thirty hour brass pinions
andf.rge Work; Be!b, dock .and watch Bi«l»,
Springs, liands, Glajfei, Puaiip: Stone, Emery,
tVotU'ii Stone, Cat Gut; bench, fiaud and tail
Vices J Tur.i ~ Plierj, Chain*,Seal,,Key«, &c. &c.
*#* Apprentice! Wanted.
novembcr f&tutf
Tne Hiltory of PennfylvanlaT"
Br ROaiiKT PROUD,
IS now in the pref», and will be pttbliihed,
wkth all convenient expedition, by Zi-cha-
Riah Pouljon, jdp. No. Bb, Chefnut-flreet,
i'.nladeiphia, where fubfcripti#ns will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to ibe prinJed propofaU, until the
work it ready for thefubferibere.
•Ny . lawtf
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than an/'oilisr in
the City—
OF rjRIOUS SIZ ?£,
From Bby 6t019 by 14,
By the finale Box or Quantity, tniy be had at the
store of the Sabferibers, cornet ot Arch and Front
(lrect.
James C. & Samuel W. Fiber.
Philadelphia, Jane 9, 17.97, *
Lancaster, Harrijburgh Carli/le,
Sbippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requefiad tot-Ae notice, that
the partnership which has for fometkne fub
fiAed betweos Mnthiss iiongh of Lancaster, and
William Geer, it now diffblved : but, not as M.
Siough jnfin*«teit» thcpablic without jnft cause
as -rill m<Tre fully appeal- by a letter on the ful>-
jc<* froth M. Slongh to W. Oeer, dated the J9th
December Is?*, a recital of which is not now deem*
ed necelTjTy. Any gciuliman who wjflies to be
•tore cir<ni*.<tanti»lly informed of tire merits of
thit bufineft, hy applying to W. Geer may have
the of M. tlough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not pqrfeftly jaftlfiable in attaching him
lelf to any other perfpn in the prosecution of the
Stage «onvcyanr: fro.-u Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
tfow from tbe liberal and generous support' the 1
public were pleased to confer on the firfl effort in 1 *
his bufmefs, William Beer, in conjunction with I
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined ! 3
:o prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at- < -
cntion anddifpatch that a zeal to oblig«the pub- ■ 5
ic cuagoiribly exert. j
"1 fWabove company, who are amply provided ti
vith carriages, horses, and every apj ugtenance to ' tl
ender the passage fafc and commodious, inform b
hof« v/no wi(h to patronize and encourage the
indertaking, that they can take their feats at n
Jeorge Weed's, the sign of the White Horse, b
•larkct Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday j c
nd Friday, to proceed to Harrilburg,
and Shippeniburg. The fare as hitherto tl
llabliihed. y
For the further accommodation ot the public, {c
Sfige will ftwt every Wednesday from the house fcj
£ Samuel £lder, in Ha»rilbnrg, arrive at Sun- tv
wrj; in Morrhumberland county, every Thuriday, j fi|
ud return irom thence and arrivs at Harrilburg'! w
very Saturday, to deflined for i th
.ancaftertir Philadelphia, may proceed 011 Won- j I.
ays. j he
WILLIAM GEER. jin
Lancafler, Jan. 27, 1797- i tb
N. Ji. This Line «t' Stage* Harts from tht be
aufe of William Ferrge, in i.ancafter, on every
ueiday and Saturday mornijiir at 6 o'clock, pro- Pt
ecling to the weft ward; and irom the houß of or
r. Sainual Kldsr in Harriiburg every Wednef- nn
y hiormng, Till the fame evening arrives at I'd
!ck Cochran's in Shippenft-jrg, and rctel-ns j
)m thence on every Tluirfday : performing tbe hi
ne routine daily a» in its K>ur frem Phiiadoi- tGi
phia,
vie' frrntir! :,i : :\tcd S;atc'*>w '.qrk/lcl
| io 'H "'I the joHo'yvi'it;
. i,by u>b:cb tbsfu'Aic will be firvtdy
for <u.WfP as their ohdient fervr.ht.
, in i ; 'B. Li NCOL'N, if
4 r L't'A-fiouftri, ofi^laljSe&itfitts.
ten ov< ' icr of the Uniteii Scales, a Licht Hiiufe
* been erf.jieil at tlfe Clay I'VSTds", 011 Cape
. j Co(l; the r.i whit !i are to be lighted on
■•uli :] " 's«'> iTtfl. Ihe li('lit I:oufc i» ereileil on,
cet- 1 elevaicl about 150 feet, whith with the e
n.j v aii hi qr t(ie y,ahtern makes the wholeheiglrih
spfl feat.lbiive high nurk. laqiderthat
this Light may be from the B'j'lo:i
and otner Li;*ht* rn o?r coait, an Eclipfer is e
rected, which v.i 1 revolve around the Lamps
once m S.a i'cconds so that vhe light wi-ii be n.'ar-
ly e»e uded irorti the eye of the approaching
• or ni-uintr about thirty lershds, in one rtvoluti
on <>i the eclipfer. To render Hit benevolent
r • -Jj 1 ?.?'«? Cpngrefs, js extenlively nfrful as pof.
•an h,ile, the ftlai jjie Society in Budon, by a large
v.o:* irorn their body, whole views have
tar.'.es and liearings a* they thoKgVt neceifary ;
«'.w- h oofe.'vatioiis giving light and fifety are
P * added for the .benefit of all are
as fo//o<&l
■r.t- Vellels patward brund, from Boston Light
ora house, and would with to fall in with Cape-Cod
iter tne courle is E. S. E-diilance 15 leagues, thence
icy 3 leagues to the Light hmife. When up with
ap- the L'jjht-htwife and it bears S\V j leagues dif
•et, tance, you then fleer S3 E which will carry
re- yo 1 .. ou: of the south channel,
lad Vclfels inward bound, and Fall in with the
back of Cape-Cod, bring the Light to bear SVV
2 leagues dlfiauce. then you may fieer VvNW
for Boftott Light-Houle.
It ycu you would wish to go into Cape Cod
harbor, you may keep' the Jhore aboard about
a mile.diiUnt, wherv you will have 10 fithoms
m. water. Thji eis a lies off the back of the
Cape, about half a raiie from the ihbre. '
H'hen up with Mace-point, which is very
bold, a«d about three leagues to ibewqftward »f
the Lighr-houfe, and maybe known by a num
aly ber of fifli houses ou it, from 1 to 3 miles to
ill- the foutWard of Kace-point, is what is called
m ~ Herring Cove, wliereyou miy ha«c good an
al ehoring half a mile frrra the flwe, the wind
c l I f'Om Eto N NE in 4or even 3 fathom water.
,u I If hound into Cape Cotihaibor, your
r ' j from Rare-pni«tto \Vood end, is SSE
ch | diPance, bnng tke liglit to bear E by N and
, c .' r,,n f° r it about two miles, y«;i will then be
clear '! Wood end—then you must steer N E
until the light bears E by 8— tJien run N W
f«r the harbor, until you have from 4 to 3 1-1
fathom? water, where you have good anchor
ing, the Light then will btar Eby S j-z S 5 or
6 miles distance.
In' .running from tfie Race point to Wood
End—after you pjfi the Blark Larid «r Hum
mucks, -ynii %viil tome up -with a low fasdy
beach, whlcb f rmstht harbor; extendiog be
in twacn 1 and i«ile« to Wood-end, which is
difficult to be diflinguilhed in the nfght—lt ii
very bclJ—you Will feave 25 fathom water
within half a n:ile ps the (hore.
keep the ea.Ucr« Oiore aboard, until you get in
to y fathom «cater. Stand no farther to the
wettwacd than to bring the light ta bear E by S '
' as there it 1 long spit of find runs off frana Ihe
(1 well cm Hi are, which feeing very bold* you will
l Sf have 11 fithdtn water within a fteneVthrow of i
e- fliore.
ns • In cafe it blows so hard that you cahnot beat
l», in the harbor, yeu trill have good Anchoring
y, wi:hout, from 1010 15 fathoin water,
ill VeHVU in Boston would wifb to put
c.' a*iy for Crpe Cod Warbor, inulf endeavor to
ta-l in with the Sacti If in the night, and you
eaunot fee the land, ycu mutt bring the Light
to bear E by N and run for it until you have
foundings i:i !.; cr 15 mliom warer, then steer
north ealt until the (light bears £ by $ then ,'iin
' in N W for the harbor.
" At full and change, it ia high water off Race
' Fcmt Bt 10 o'clock apd 43 minutes. Vessels m
le leaving Cape Cod bound to Boilon, fliould cal
culate the tide, as the flood lets ftronK to the
" south wfß
- WILLIAMS, Committe
NATHANtfL GOODWIN, ( frvm the
JOHN (iRUFV,. ( Marine
JOHN HfIXS. ) Svciet,
THOMAS BARNARD, A branch Pilot
for the fort efßo/lan
SOLOMON COOK, J Refitlence at Pro-
ELIJAH NICKERSON, ) vincetonCafeCoJ
ie At a Meeting of the Marine Society, held at
Concert Hall, on Tuettay 7th iJov 1797 —the
above Report of its Committre was read and
approved and ordered to be published.
* By order ofi'jt Society.
- L THOMAS DENNIE, Prudent.
, WILLIAM FURNF.i-S, -Vr'/r.
City of Walliingcon.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
it For the Improvement of the Federal City.
1- A-maghificeatdvelling-haufe ao.occdolljrs,
d & cash 30,300, ate jo.oo.
'• 1 ditto 15,000 & cast 15,00 a 40,0.it,
: 1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 ' 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 ik calh 10,000 »o,oqo
i ditto 5,000" & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5, peg & caii 5,000 10,000
I cash prize qf • to,aoi
» do. 5,000 each, are • xo,ooo |
ro dc. 1,000 - ; 10,001. !
as do. 500 - . 10,001 > I
00 do. ioq - - 10,000
. 100 do. 50 • » - 10,000
400 do. 15 - - lo,yoo
1,000 (To. ao - 30,(400
: j ts>oos do. to • 159,000
1 I 16, Prizes.
1 < 33,161 niaiilvs.
I' 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Bpllart, 400,001?
N. B. Toiavour thofe-wha may take a quan
, tity ol Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dolUrs will be
th« l.< st drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but ONI :
And approvednotes, securing payment in either
monay or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received so« any number not left than 10 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be erwSed in the City of
Walhingron—Two beautiful designs are .already
for the entire fronts en two of the public
squires ; from thefc drawingsitispfopofed toerec'f
two centre and 'our corner b'iild:ngs ; as fcor. aspof.
i fible after this lottary is fold, and to ijer.vcy thsm,
when chiajilete, to the fortunate adventuiArs, ia
1 :h(; manner d.Vcribed in the fclierne Spr the Hotel
j Lottery. A nett of five/per cent, will
be rtu.f- to defray the necessary enpenfes of print
ing, stc. and the surplus, will be made a part of
the fund intended for the NatiJnal Lmvcrdty, to
be the city of vVjQiingtoM.
rfic real fecuritiesgifen for the payfiieft of the
Prizes, are held by the Prefideiit aivd two Direil
ors of the Ban't of Columbft, and are vdlucd at
more than half the amount ot the lattery,
• SAMUEL hLOJOpST. ]
'! .5. Tickets may be hart at the Bank of C'olkui
• hia ; cf James Weft' & Co. lialtimari; of Fettr
; Qiijijtair, iitiitDn : of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
, and of Kiehard Wills, Cooper's I r e*ry. nnvf
NO TIC E.
• r
' JL James Bacon', under the firm oi" Inftoneand
Dacon, is this tlay difiolvcd by mutual confenr.—
All prrfrtns who iiuleoted to la d 4irm arc
• to make immediate payment fit their
: -refpr&we 3:cnu"t», to Jcth'n Skykin, on Iranden
burner's wharf, who is duly auth-orifed to receive
i the lame ; and all pertons -having any demands a
, gainfl the faid.flrin, are desired to bring in their
account* immediate y ufchim for fcttlement.
1 john Injlone,
"James Bacon.
1 eodfr
The Philadelphia, -J.hjion, and i uckertun
M A I L STAG E.
' proprietors beg leave to inform the f> sl?i:c, that '
A. they have eflablijhed a Singe btttvnn PbJj.n'' h 'hirt y
Atjiotty Baffin, / lamp ton, "Speedwell, <fml JGarthn b'*r- '
• nace, IVading River flitting- mill, and the to~.un ;f Tuck- :
• erfoa, in Neiv- f^Jcy, to go a,ice a itc?k, and drjprokii- '
: ded ivith good herfes, a ccnforttible carriage, and a care-
. fit! driver, for the convrjqnce of the mail, pajfengers, at(d *
goods. Tie St ipe will flart evtry ThurfJ.y, .?/ io (
0 clock, A. As. from I\4r. Dantd Cooper '/ Perry, ah.l *
, lodge that night at jfoel Bodine > s > at Eongacomi/.g ; end 1
on on Friday, at 6 oclcck, P. M. arrive at CM F.-
. vms's, inleeper, in Tucker ton, diflant from the city 54 1
1 milts % (from the Ai.laiti.ig 6, and from the F.aji Grouflng .
Plains 1 miles) -where are gbdtt accommodations far tra
vellers, ana 'where are commodious andfafe pajfjge boats
provided to convey paffergers to C apt. William War- 1
rington s house, on Tucker s Tfland, adjoinining the Al- c
L-uitic, zi here are good accommodations, and a convenient t
J>lact? to lathe ; the fpir.tfman tvbs zvijhes to regale himfclf I (
18!tb Jola ling and may at this place be highly »ra- 1
tfeJ, there being at ahuofi every f-cfin of the yeqr fats I (
andfjh ia. abandonee.—The Stage on its returnnflarts f
from the afcrefaid C. Evanses in Tucker ton, every Tuff- j
day, at 6 a clack, A. M.brcakfaflt at John Badine's, at
JVadimg River Bridge, lodge that night al Longacvuting, i
and' at I 0 clock, P, At. on Wednfday, arrive at ths j
a forefaid Coopers Ferry. It is prcfumed that no route ty*,
cn equal distance ueill be less expevjbue, or furnifh the tra
veller -with a greater variety of auiujlufic.it, as La teill j
notorly Ltfcje a pit of ant fail to the allant.c fioet TucUr
ton, but he ve tlfe cur infty of feeing on the mad thiihr a
number oj capital furnaces and forges, and one flitting "
fx>Hy in cowpletierdtr, and at tvork ; gentlemen, too, ivho
"are oimmri, or favors, of oat} cf the aferef aid ircn works,
are foliciti d £0 entourage and f*pport this f.age (by •wh'ch
they cMulcfo -ivtlla/commuJu'cd) thei rf usiiti
•mill mud dtiiendcH their aid. The rates cf p*ffengers
and are as fultenvt : For u pnffengar from the
cfertf Daniel Colter's FePry h Tucket tm, utilttJing |
14 lu.oj baggage. Two Pq/Urs ; for way poffenders
per mile, Four Cents— 150 lb. of baggage er/unlh apaf
fencer. Pof age op ietten i uaufpapers, Wc. zv'nl be
agreeably to laic. e
y. h. '2he Thd:l cefts from the Old F:try. L
THOIgAS iVARDLIi & C».
Tucler'.on, Stft. 28. 08.$. — laxotf i
~TJi€ NorfoirMaifSTAOgr
nPHIS Btage furu- Irora the GEORGI Titer*, .
A at the cottier ol Second aid Arch Streeu, in
j l'hiiadelphia, rvaty 'Tu 'jns;, TtmrfJuy, and Sat.r-
Jaj/, nt ? o'clock, i« the » orning ; .irrives at O#-
I ver the Hrft day, al Suourhili the Tccond day, at ]
j iVorthanipfcn Court Houfc t!ie third day, atid oe
j the motnir.g of the fourth iiy tltc alcana's find
I a file aud comlortable pacluit to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Nortiiampto fnrry,
! every Tudfjiy, Thursday and Saturday, anj the
Stifcitsrt frairi this ferry for Philadelphia, everj-
Monday, Wedncfday artd Friiay; putiup ittßntfv/
Hill thefeit night, at Dover the zd siglit.a»d «r- ]
rives in thiladelpUla in the avouyig of the third
Ja y-
Thediftance nn this route, hefweea Philadelplja
and Norfolk, is io milrs less than on any stage rdLtc
between those places.
Too much caeiiot Ve fatd in favor of thi rofd, 1
which it most excellent indeed. The proprietors ]
willingly engwge to return the whole fare to any ,
paflenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled inaftajjefor the fame
distance, so good d road in .tmerica.
Ancoit .'i. Jtni.eotf. <
Erfkiiie's View of the War. |
JUST PUB LIS ITEU,
By ROBERT CA&K'BELL & Go.
No 40 South SecoHil street,
fPrice H CettiJ
A View of the Causes and Cinfcquen
ces of the pYefent War with Francs.
By the Honorable I JiisiUNc. i
May is "J • 1
STATE TRIALS. '
Sold b W.Young, BoolcCjleu, No. South S«- f
coud-flrce*-,
The Pennfyhvania State Trials, \
CONtaining the ijnpeachm«r-t, tml.ond acquit- t
al of Judge of the C«;.rt ol
A dmiraUy, and John NicholfooCcmptru iter Gtn-'
eral—la 011 c large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, i
dollars. - „
W. Young has for sale, a general alTortnieiit of c
8ook«. Also, Stationary, retail and ty the puek- f
ege, Well aborted, and cititled to the tlraivback ii \
ai-pc*ted. J 4 ljr c
— h
For Sale,
'That wellbiown place, called f^ J iNDi.oKiiT , s c
nuv, n
ON Nefhimtny creek, 18 miles from Phila- v
laiielphia, on the Ke# Y»rk poll roatl, i'
containing 74 acres and {Jpoii the l '
| preimfej are a larjje two i l ory rtone hi.ule eetu- 8
I pied as a tvem, and a good one Itory itonc kit
! t hen, a l<irge frame ilable with agood thtc'lTiihg
i fioor, and folnc out huildihgs—alio a Well 01
good water, and an excellent ice Motile. On
this plaie is a mott eltptnt situation fora gtnt)e-'
r.jan's {'eat, comaiantHng a view of the Neftain
inv to its jun&ion * iih the JJelawatc, and thence,
acrol's to the jerfty (liore. it has tht privilege, J
of one halt the tol' received from the h-ridge.' 3
For termi apply to tfc'e SsbTcribcx, I
MORDIiC-VI LEWIS. in
May 24. tl
COLUMBIA HOUSE
BoardingSchacl for youiig Ladies.
MRS. GI4OOMBRIDOE with (nuch pleas- tl
lire and refpei?!,. ret jrns her fini?ere ac- ai
knowledgemtDt for the tilieral c«a>urageioent
(he his received during four yeats refitienise in
Philadelphia; and aflures her friends ami the
public, so far from intending t,j decline her
ichool, (lie has made a lupcnor arrangement Kir r
the more convenient accommoriltion of her
iholars, —Every branch of ufefcl and pclite G
edutation-is particularly attended to by Mrs. t0
Grooinhridgt and matter* excelling iu their
refpedlive profrili Jti3.
Conier of ypruce and Eleventh Streets.
June 5111, 1797- ' jlirJ'tf
The fitiutitm is
more agreeable by an extenfivt glrctli aud lot
of gr 'ilnti adjoinins'tlie house.
/'ujt Published,
And to be had of- Mcfirs. Dotfcn, C(U»jJb«ll,Rlct,
Gary, and the ctk-r pricipal iiookfellerj in the. B
city,price one dollar, twisty-five cents,in beards, tr.
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America. }„
Er B&SL4iHN SMJTH BARTON, m. d. th,
Junt iC.
RE MO V A L
j f Maurice Moynitian,
_ INi'wRMS liit Iriends and the public, that ho 1
u ! i.t,s removed hit Store of China, Glals, Queenj
r Ware, sod Dry C rot's, from Mo. 81 North Se
•• ca to_No. 71 l.ortliSeveufli Street, north
e ca.n. Tut y Ailey, where-he solicits the fa*
i- vcr of his former cufiomers.
ir N - Craiet put up with care at the shortest
notice
novcniijcr s.
Ileal Mtate for Sale,
"" ,£l. ' K)N, in a healthy and good fi
l _.v tuatioi) on Chester Creek, in Middleton I
lowmliip', Delaware County, containing
ii j' cres > upwards of acres of which are wool
land, well timbered ; the remainder plough land
and watered meadow—of the latter, many more
_ acres can be made at afmall expence. There are
on said prcmifes, a good orchard of befl grafted
fruit, a nddfe, with a fpnng near the door, a frame
j harn with {tabling under, and"!i log tencmant on
0 one °f a 'd place.———Any parson inclining
J t0 ptirjiafe, may view the pretnifeg by applying
to \\ m. Pknnbll, on said farm, and know the
crms by applying to Jonathan Pennell, in the * A
4 t orough of Ctefter.
- B november ax. 3 t cod {
Philadelphia, OSI. IJ.
1 I-E fubfciiber!. inform their friends and cufto- €
nicrs in cown and country, tha*. their jlores are now
open in the city, and others are daily opening, and
/ that iromtfee present appearance ©f the prevailing
f disorder have reilon to hope, their friends may
portly come to the city with per fed fifty. By
/ several lata: arrivals, nuhibcrs have received frcfii
5 supplies of GOODS.
- Robert Smith 13 Co. P. VS. Qallarulet fe* Co.
- John Davis & Co. Sitgreapucs iy Trench*
» Ac/// cT Smith, George Dobfon 9
' IFUtberger and Smith, Thawas Kyerfon,
yiiex Bi/Jluva And Co. '7*. bX. DurActiber^.
' J«coh and Co. John Smith and Co-
Owen <y Jena. Jonei, Thynas Orr,
j Xeppilt' & Z&'izihgitr, William Barker & Co.
r Adam Zaftizwger, Tbomas Armat & Sw.
\ John tries, J. Miller, jun. and Co.
Etfijemih Iff J. Johafon.
1 Q®. 14
1 pqyntixits ;
Px/per Hangings Manufaftory,
r No. 70, Chtfnut-ftreet,
s tVhbrc he bus fir Sale,
A VP.KY exCCTifive ftoek, cf every colour, ind
e Xa. of the moll approved paturp3,'fuitable for
every part of a iiaiile, wiji great variety of bor
ders to suit. t
—*4 l. so—
A hanofome afTortraent ot the aioft fafhionaMe |
.Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
very tied p'nin Green and plain Blue,
With Pannel Pr.pcrs-3ad a rich variety of Borders.
Nove-rber 1. eo6t
Will be Lantied, '
Feoih onboard Uit* fiiip Capt.Blair,from
Hambuigh,
%c bafei white Russia cjean Hemp
a (Sifts Clovrr V
forfSaleby
Thornets Hermart Leujfer,
North Fifth ftrett, Ko. 34. V
Jnji« a 6. i I
• Imported inthefhipMANCREETEK,
Benjamin Sbiwsll, Mtifter,
j From BcurJclux, srid for file by the fuhfcriKtv,
c No. ii Walnut Siieet.
Boordeanx Brandy •
, Irish market claret in caka f Entitled to
" Medoc wine, in do. l" Drawbatdi.
' Sauierne, do. do. J
t Tbrnnas Margstreyd.
WHO HAS ro*. SAXE.
. Sherry Wine in pipes and quwter tafts
Rota do. do.
■Pimento in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fair.
Aug. 24,. * tat&stf- -
Peale's Museum.
THIS valuable repository of the sprits of J+?.-
ture, so wrll calculated to tiiiini" .- ;5 min A
and C - r Ei uopened daily, a«
usual. It lb:ids in an -airy and health)- fitunr.ion,
- ar.d free from tfcs epidi;nic that at prcfcnt
tfce city ; it nay, therefore, be frequented wirh
the greatcll fafety.
As an At»Bfcraent, the study ef Nature is the
moljl tarCbual a«4 plealliig ; a Science, the molt
sublime and iiiflruilive. ft elevates the mind gud
- expands the heart. They
! " Whom tfylurc'; nMrlt tan tkarm, with Vad timMf
" VtU conDerft"
1 Many interring additions have lately been
made to thi-, Mufcuru : aed t!l» feathered tribe,
I containing a variety of the moll rare and beautiful
- lubjeeh; :s now very advajitageoufly arranged.
I Wa.idi Figures, cf Men large at life (lcmc oithem
calls f.om nature) are here dressed in their prupw
hibits, and pl.-<-ed :n atritiules clurai2eri(flic of ticlr
refpedli»c nations. Here may be fucu the North-
American-Savage, and the (iavatfe of Sooth-Ameri
ca—a laboring Chiiiefe, and the Chinefe-Gentlo
mar.—tha iooty African, and the Kamtfih*tialt—
with tome Natives qf tbe South Sea islands. Ihe
iiumcnfe variety and i-.iterefliiijj diverlity which
this Museum ofi'efi'.o the view. :niy bef.snkii
aannotbe described with fall efTi£l,
0- Price only i-4th of a dollar.
S<yt. *B. _ xa-pr
Davis's Law Book Stort,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
XJi.ING bulled Icr some time past in prepain
lO tions for removing into his prufeut house, has
leen under thenecdStypf ppftponingußtil tl>i»»lay
iiiCorfniiigthegeatlcliufi ofthe Ear genei ally thro'
the United States, that his spring importation of
law boetfi is ndw arraiige'd and re»uy tor tale, ou
terms that ne trulls will entitlchim to tholikc pre
(rsence he lus esperienc'ixl for ieveral )•( crs pail.
Catalogues, (Kmhiniirg the mod-varied «o!W
sicn tv,r imported i.lto this country, Jte prjii»e«t
and Will be delivered 011 application.
Juni 17. v v<-
Bolton ,Glals Ma aura dory.
r F'HE citizens cf tho United States are h?rel?y
1 inforniwvl, that ths rngi.ufailure ot Window
G fcfe is bow commenecHl at the Olafs House in Bcf
ton.
It ia needlrrs to fny any thirg of th«" excellent
quality of the 80/tou Ohfs, as it is so v/ell known
thronyhout the United to he in every n/pcih
greatly to any ever imported from Europe. -
It will be cut to any fizz commonly used ; and
n/fiy be conlta->tly had by .-pplyiug to Cmarlf.s F.
ICupfer, at. the (jfafi. House.
Orders from the States to be
Mr. . % i Amu el Goric, (. .ourt-ftrcer, Bi^iton.
Eoi'ton, m-; t 30, 1797 O 4—2avr6w
Mjfrs. Yrr otby an;t Mafia,
SIOi } >e and. JiayUn, Halifax, N. C. Xvlejfn. Wrll'dt.
a.:.:' Q'GoiWjr, N-.r/Jt ; Mr. Mills f*ri<re * AlcKOiidtij .-
Iviejfn- YuhJt and Vroivn, JSzttiiaiere ; Alt. i/c/
AVii'-' ?"• ; and !i\Cffis. fiati
fpitd s' Mr.-Styaxur,, ; are re.-.uspd io
the absvc once a •irsiL 6 ■zvwls. T*b auif+itf 'jti,.
•uarJid. lL c £.uicr.