of the Untteu States, & Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.
Nvmbmx 1353.] MONDAT EVENING, JANUART9, 1797. [VOLUME XI.
For Sale,
By George Defchatnps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
l)itto Herring and Mackarel.,
Snoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or single one
IVy Codfifh, from one to fifty kentals
Fine and oaarfe Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the ftowe
ground, for manure and ilucco-work
December i.
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was bought for Ten I houfand
T)ollars.
He is 3 years ojd, 6 feet high, -growing to 18 feet.
He eats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water ; he has drink some days forty bottles of porter,
drawing the corks with his trunk.
He is perfectly inoffenfive; travels loose, at the
rate of ftve miles an hour, and is the greatest curiosity
ever brought to this Comment. t
He is to be seen 'till the 15th of January, in
Market-street between Third and Fourth-flreets, at
-a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him-—
after which time the former priee of half a dollar will
be resumed.
He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather
will permit.
December 31 d
WANTED, j
A MECHANIC, to erect Spinning and Weaving
Machines by water, such as are used at my manufac
tory-Apply to JAMES DAVENPORT,
No. 401, North Front-street.
N. B. None need apply but a complete mechanic,
and a man of liability.
Globe Mill, December 29. 1796- y-
THE SUBSCRIBER
WISHES to ascertain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer,
who quitted Ireland i*i or *7®4j came into
this Country, ('tis supposed to Philadelphia) about
four years since, be living or dead. As this intelli
jrenee is of thehigheft importance, it will be thankful
ly received, by GEO. DA\IS,
No. 313, High-street
D«cember w & f mi
Elegant BrufTels k Turkey Carpeting,
For sale by George Dobfon, No. »s,SouthThird-ftreet.
December 15. dtf
~«fir F° R SALE,
The fajl-faihng febooner ORION;
Seventy tons burthen ; Sfteen months
; her frame is of the bet of white
oak : she i. a faithful built veflel, handsomely finilhcd off
and well toand in every particular ; is ready to receive a
cargo on board, aild can b , put to sea without any ex
pe«ce op her hull, fails or riggi«g"t flie flows si* hur.dred
barrels; has a feandfpme cabin and steerage, and a half
deck which will stow from feventy-five to eigh y barrels;
has hoen newly caulked, graved and painted. For teripas
apply to BIiNJAMIN RfIODES,
At No. 170, eorn-r of Market and Fifth-flrests,
Or to the Captain on hoard said schooner at Messrs.
Willis and Yardiley's wharf, adjoining Chefnut-llreet
wharf; where thers is for sale
Excellent pickled Salmon in barrels,
the bell *f American Mess Beef, and some very excellent
Boston manufactured Chocolate. y
December 26 V
For Sligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship Nancy,
Cuthbert Riggs, master.
Will fail with all convenient fpc«d. For
freight or pafiage apply to
William Bell;
1 Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well aflbrted
3 Bales Irilh Flannels, and 2 boxes Linens
«5 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Rufiia Matts. <
Also,
A few !« rels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, 1796, mwftf
FOR SALE,
1 HE ship m art,
SAMUEL PARKER, Mastih,
«s;£w3^two hundred tons burtßen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
TT the MARY is not fold in a few days, (he will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
' Oiflnber 31. d
For Sale, or Charter,
Ship DIA NA,
j Samuel Pilf, Master,'
Burthen 205 47-95 lf,ns reg'te 1 "' built
Philadelphia in the year 1792, of live 01k
and "•(1 cedar, and was (he.ithed 13 months ago, she
has jult had a compleat out-fit, and m.>y be sent to sea
At a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin ly Co.
frfjo have for sale on beard said vejel,
ay caiks of fine yellow paiwt.
9 boxes and 11 bundles of writing Hates.
1 box ink (lands and note prefles.
14 bales of fail c^nvafs.
t And on hand,
Imperial ~) _
Hyson, and, TEAS.
Souchong j
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the frrft quality.
19 tubs Quicksilver.
1 cheHs Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few chests Manchester goodswell aflorted in Cor
li'jroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities,&c.
3 boxes black sewing fi!k.
180 crates Queens ware well alTorted.
10 tons (heet lead.
Nails assorted, flat and (harp points.
I.ondo* Particular, Madeira Wine in pipes
London Market, r an( j hogtheads.
New-York Market, J
pipes and 10 hog(he»ds Teneriffc wine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
Mah W . '
0\ j .
Imported from London "iff Liverpool, j
EARTHEN WAKE, in crates and hogflie&ds, well
aflorted
Wiiie Bottles in hampers
Window Glass of all fi/es
Two caret of stationary
One chest of yellow Jesuits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnctta
A small consignment of Rose Blankets, Flannel*,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plain', &c. (
Paints of various colors.
Balket fait in hogsheads.
Also on handy i
Madeira wine, very eld, in pipes, hogfkcads and I
quarter caiks -
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality t
Anchors of different lizes 1
A few trunks of ladies French Ihoes alforted
.Silk nankeen, &t. j-
Likewise an assortment of Dutch goods, consisting of
Ofnaberi'S, ticklenbergs, bed-ticks, stripes, checks. '
Morlaix linen, platillas, ravens duck, Britannias,
And for sale by the package only by
Thomas & John Ketland.
Walnut-street Wharf.
Nov. 15. _ _ _
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turnpike
Road Company.
A Meeting of the Stockholders for the Eleflion of
a President, Managers, and other officers, will he
Ijeld at the Company's effice on Monday the 9th Jan.
next, at 10 o'clock.
. By the Board.
WM. GOVETT.Sse'ry.
December 2, 1796-. iawtiftj.dt9 h
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
N®. 63 South Third ftr«et,oppofite the national new Bank.
SAMUEL M FR UNCKS and JOHN VAN REED,
have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of
FRAUNCES & VAN RFED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commrfiion merchants. They buy and
j fell on commission every species of stock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Money procured on depolits, &c. &c. all kinds c f
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch ; accounts adjusted, and book 9 fettled, in the
most correct manner. Conflant attendance will be given.
They solicit a (hare of the public favor; they are deter
mined tq endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmost secrecy observed.
SAMUEL M. FRAUXCES,
JOHN VAN REED
Philad. AUgnft 27, 1796. m&wtf
"Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South SeCOUD STREET.
TICKETS in' the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sale—a
Check Book for examination—and prize* phid in
»he late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and rcfitterinEr, for
the fiity of 'Washington,. No. 1, and Pattefun Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing —information where
tickets arc to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel 4nd Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wilh to purchaft or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on depofu of property
%* Also 1 ickcts in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dollars each, whiah will be drawn early in
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, AajaP. 18, 1796■ mth
SALT P E T R E. .
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for
sale at No. Is, South Third street.
N"vemher 5.
A CARD.
If Monsieur G N. Son lE,
Who left Bordeaux the joth June last, and arrived
,t Boston Vbout the middle of Aaguft, in the schooner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is "requefled to call 011
Joseph Anthony & Co. No. 5, Chefnut-ftreet, who
will give him some iuforraatioit cf importance.
December 24, 1796- $
Fashionable Waistcoating.
. GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Nets received per the Diana, from London,
Clouded and striped Spanish Swanfdawn
Clouded Erminats and Molelkins
Striped do. ar.cl d®.
Figured Manillas I
Scarlet figured Erminets
Printed Florinetts
Do. CafTinets and Caffimeres
Superfine printed Qui!tis;»s, newest patterns
Also, per different arrivals,
A large and general afl'ortment of Dry
Goods,
Suitable to the present and approaching season*
November 5. dtf
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL lituated, laying on and between Marth
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
soar separate I'atents. For terms ot sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, South Second-ilreet
O&ober 31. ' mwftf
FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
A'o. 99, Sorth Second Street.
Imperial f Hyson Skin.
Hyson, > Fresh Teas. < Souchong,
Young Hyson, j d.Bohe«
• I>ec. <). 3taw.;m,
Insurance Company of the State of
Pennsylvania.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, tha v . an ele&ion
for thirteen Dire&or* to serve for one year, will be held
at the Company's Offica, on Monday the 9th January next,
at 11 o* clock.—And agreeably to the act of incorporation
1a {tenement of the affairs of the company, will then be
bid before them.
SAMUEL W. FISHER, Sec'y
Philadslphta, December I}, 1796, 4 t 9»hJ»«.
Fresh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots ? hfc-. isfc.
This day landing from the (hip Eagle, captain Fofiiick,
from London,
And FO.R SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Second-ftrects,
A mofl capital and xxtenfive AJjfortment of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c. &c. ,
Among which are, a
Five khxls /fparagus Three kindi 'Crefles a
Four Berecolc Twelve Onion
Twenty-five Beans Thirteen ftadifli
Six Beets! Fifteen Turnip f
Elevea Brocoli Fifteen Peas >
Twenty-fix Cabbage Six Savoy t
Six Carrot Four Parsnip r
Three Cauliflower Twenty-three Melon \
Celery Twenty-one Lettuce j
Tea Cucumber
Common and lemon Thyme r
Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley c
Pot Pot Marjorum {
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek Kail vShallofe# c
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerne t
Red and white Clover Timotliy, &c. j
With a curious colledlion of the mod esteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the most extensive ever imported into this city.
The above are Srera a capital Seedsman in London, and
are warranted frefh and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as aboye.
Dec. 17. dtf.
Just Landing,
At South Jlreet wharf, from clt board the /hif\ Svdg- t
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Petersburg, ]
The following Goods : i
Ruflia Sail D*ck, firft quality.
Do. Sheeting do.
Do, Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.
Do Crafti.
Do. Mould Candles, 4, 5 and 6, to the} lb. otf the
English size.
Do. White Candle Tallow. 1
. Do* White Soap in small box&s. (
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
Ravens Duck. )
lfinglafs, ill and and fort.
Horse Hair uncurlcd.
. Russia Bar Jron.
Do. Hoop lifon.
Do. Nail Rods.
10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. Petcrfburg Ck-an Hemp.
For Sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
Oflobcr 12.
i Cheap French China.
THE finding it imjjofliblt to supply their
store with any rfiore Chiiia from France, the prices
being too immoderate in the j anufailorics, give no
tice th.it tbev fill fell at pritne cost the remaining
flack on hand, consisting of
Defiert Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
'* Separate Cups and Saucers
Groupcs and Figures
Alaballer "Vases
Looking Glalfi s, in gilt frames,
Befiiies India Japan'd Toilet Delkß, Chairs, Tables
nad Qaidrille Boxe . PASQUIER & Co.
No. 91, South Seeond-ttreet.
December jth. tts
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Consisting of different sizes, from u inch cables down
to rope of 2 inches, of different lengths: Imported ill
the fliip Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. ?-7 - dti
Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOBSON,
No. 15, South Third-ftrest,
Has just reeeived, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, via Lon
don, an affortraent of
Scnrtot
Drab Cloaks trimmed with lur and
v Purple and C ermine.
Pearl J 1
December TJ. §
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET,
Mas reeeived by the late arrivals,
A IVeli Selected Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, on the very
low eft terms ;
Amongjl which are
S<rme elcga-nt 4*4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns
Ditto Furniture ditto
Ditto Din>ity
'Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muflint
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrelia* of the firft quality, alTorted
1 lrilh Linens, very fine, and Table Lineils
Marl'eilles a<nd Cotton Counterpane#
Rose Blankets aflorted—&c. Set.
OAobsr 26. d
1 . 1
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
GEORGE DAVIS announoes to his profdfional friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
Uniort, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arrang
ed, rrtdy for Sale, from a fmgle volume to an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceediog low
p prices, which forfrveral years pail have in so diftingaiflhed a
manner recommended them u> notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the most extensive col lee-
tion cf the Wteft English and lrilh Editions ever imported
j into this country, are patolUhcd, and will be delivered giatis
on application.
' Oiders aodrnTed ro G. D. in writing from any distance
1 shall be punQually attended to.
e A number of TRUNKS for Sale-
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient X.OT T, near Market Street Wharf.
vu&fga
The Lyceum, for free Debate,
In the College* Hal I.
Oa Wednefdhy Evening next the uth January, 1797, th*
following quellion will be debated.
(The Chair to be taken at Seven o'clock.)
" Is the traffic in and holding of slaves confident with
"humanity, morality, liberty, or policy: or disgraceful
i* to any nation that fan<sion» or tolerates it."
The queilion oflaft' Wednesday on the eftaMiftment
of a National Univeffity, was Rebated by a numerous
and rcfpe&able company, and decided in the negative ; *
oaly five in the affirmative.
The Traflees of the University have been pleased to
favot this institution with the. use of the College-Halt; and
Mr. Fennejll in the fame liberal Spirit, giving the tii'e of
the accommodations provided for his Le&ures; the ma
nagers of the Lyceum think it proper thus publicly to ac
knowledge their refpe£live SenSe of this liberality thus
publicly.
Additional fires shall be provided in the Hall during the
remainder qf the cold feai'on, and ladies and gentlemen
coming early may be accommodated with comfortable
ft a is
The managers finding the receipts of the firft Evening
exceed their expenditures, think it proper to notify, that
the iurplus of that and every future evening, will j>e ap
plied to lome ufetul, public, or chari able purpofc.
Admittance for Ladies &. Gentlemen i-Bth of a dollar.
Jan. 6. dtw.
Philadelphia, Jan.\th > *797.
All persons indebted to the Estate of
Joseph Paschall, deceased,
ARB requcfted to pay their refpedlive debts without
further delay, otherwise their accounts will be put into
the hands of'au Attorney to recover—And all thofi who
have any demands against said Estate arc desired to bring
in their accounts for Settlement, to
SAMUEL CO-iTES, " •) .
CHRISTR. MARSHALL,jun > Ex>«.
CHARLES MARSHALL. 3 cox
Fumifhed Apartments; or
Board iff Lodging.
WANTED by two young gentlemen. An fixers,
wi s h particulars, to be aidieffed to S. F. at the office
of tkis paper.
January 4.
Public Notice,
IS HFREBY GIVhN, that I have applied to the
judges of the Supreme Court of this state, to Supply the
detcJ! in my Title tt> a lot of ground, fitaate on the Weft
fide of Fourth-street, containing in breadth 20 feet, and
in length 56 feet, bounded Northward and Weft ward, by
ground of the fubferiber, Southward by ground oS Edward
Shippen, and Eastward by Fourth-ftteet, occasioned by
the loSs of a deed from Timothy Harrington, John Lewi*
and James Walton, by their attorney Robert Molly neux.
—All persons concerned, are required to appear before
two of the juftites of the Sard court, at the house of
Thomas M'Kean, eSq. the Chief J aft ice of the (fate, on
the 30th inil. at 10 o'clock in the forenoon,make their
answer to the bill of the fubferiber, filed in the of&ce. of
Edward BuTd , esq. Prothonotary of the said Ceurt.
WILLIAM SHIPPEN, jun.
Philadelphia, January 6th. 1797. dt3Qth
Loft, or Mislaid,
At the Bank of the United States —Joseph Higbee'i
note, dated 19th December last, for twelve bunded
(Jo It art, payable at 6c days to Nathaniel Lewis & Soh.
Whoever may find the fame will pleafereturn it to said
Bank, or to the fubferibers who will allow a reward
Payment being barred, it carmot be of use to any o
tlier person.
NATHANIEL LEWIS & SON.
5- 3*' .
For Sale,
By the Subscriben —In PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes f-xcellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Nor. 30 w&f
d- NOTICE.
THE Sales of LANDS of the United States, 111 thf
N6rth-Weftern Territory, heretofore advertised
in the several public papers, will commence this even
ing, 'at the City Tavern to be continued from d»y
to day, 'til! the tenth of February next, if not foonet
fold.
January 4 $
Bank of Pennsylvania,
January 4, 1797.
At a meeting of the Dire<florsjh'B day, a dividend of
sixteen dollars on each {hare was declared for the last
| 6 months, which w ill be paid to the Stockholders af
ter the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cafliicr.
r J'"- 3- dtf-
A Quantity of Brandy,
1 FIRST £c 2d proof,
Girt, of 4th proof, in pipfi
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhd»
Old Hock, in cases ot 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different Sen
Hazlenuts, in sacks
Whiting
Copperas ( ~, ,
White Lead C ,n hfcd »
£c Spanilh Brown J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 4
Bank of North America.
THE STOCKHOLDERS ar< hereby notified that aft
election for twelve Directors lor the ensuing year will bt
held at the Bank on Mo»duy the 9th of January at tea
c o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Cartiier.
Dec. 6*
~ " — " 1 I ■ ■ fc I tmtm.K
a Insurance Company of North-America.
THF STOCKHOLDERS in this company are desired
to take notice that the Teeond Tuesday in January, (being
|} the 10th day of the month) isthe day filed by charter for
the election of twenty-five Dire6tors for the ensuing year.
c The ele&ion will be held at their office, and commons,
atjn o'«Jeck, A. M. i
S Thefubjedt if the bye-laws oT the Corporation wiil b»
fulsmitted to their consideration at this meeting.
SBEMSZSR HAZARD, SecYr-
Dk. n. s-ht.jNew Theatre.
By Particular Befire,
On MONDAY EVENING, January 9,
Will be prelented, a COMEDY, in four a£fs, called
The Child of Naiure.
From the French of Madam Genlis, by the authored
of Every one has his Fault.
Marquis of Almanza, Mr. IVtgnsll
Count Valantia, Mr. Moreton
Dike Murcis, Mr. Warren
Seville, Mr. IVarreU
Grenada, Mr. Worrell, ja«.
jft Peasant, Mr. Cooper
*d Peasant, Mr. Mitchell
Marchioness Merida • Mrs. Merry
Amanthis, Mrs. Morris
To which will be added (for (he third time)
A Comic Opera, in two a&s (as performed at Covent-
Garden Theatri upwards of ijo nights), tailed
The Lock and Key.
Brummagem, Mr. Francis
Cheerly, Mr. Darley, jun.
Cai 'ain Vain, Mr. Fox
Ralph, Mr. Hardwood
F! >rel!a, Mrs. Warrell
Fanny, Mrs. OlJmixon
Selina, Mrs. Hartley
Miss Milbaurne
&■ Box, One Dollar twenty-five cents. Pit one Dollar.
And Gifllery, half a Hollar.
£5" Tickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's Seok-ftore,
No. 50 High-dreet, and at the Offioe adjoining the
Theatre.
The Door 3 of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock".
Places for the Boxes t» tie taken at the Office in the
front, of the theatre, from io till 2 o'cUak, and from
, Jo t>ll 4on the days of performance.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their
servants to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and
to order them, as soon as the aompany are seated, te
withdraw, as they cannot on any account be permit
ted to remain.
VIVAT RESFUBLICA!
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations*
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
MR. F E N N E L L
Refpeflfully informs the Public, that
On TUESDAY EVENING, Jan. 10, at j o'clock,
Will'be delivered,
(first *art) *
PREFaTORT OBSERVATIONS,
Including feledtions from Dr. Blair—on
Criticism,
Tasts,
Bulles Lkttrss.
(second and third parts)
The EFFEC7S of JEALOUSY and REVENGE
CONSIDEKFD,
In a Sritical Investigation of the merits of the Trage
dies of Othello and the Revenge, by Shakespeare
an.i Dr. Yomig—by an examination
Of their moral u-ndency ;
Of tiie appropriate aflignment of plot and chara&er
conduci - £0 that moral tendency ;
Of the debtee of talent and genius exereifed for the
perfection of the refpedlive works;
With fele&ions from the most ftrikiag passages in
each.
The above fubjeft will be continued on Thursday
next.
Subscriptions are received by Mr.Zachariah Poulfon,
"n. ar the Library, where the Ladies and Gentlemen
■ .iy be inclined to honor the undertaking with
prtronage, are refpe&fnlly requested to fend
• ames ami receive their tickets.
Us ca'.ional adm .lion tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfon,
at the Library ;at mr. M'Elwec's looking-gtsf»-ft«re, '
•j. 70, South Fourth ilreet ; and at Mr. Carey's, Book- I
f. !ler, Market-street—Hals a dollar each.
Bank of the United States,
'January 2nd, 1 797. I
The Directors have this day declared a Dividend of 1
Sixteen Dollars on each Share for the last fix months,
which will be paid to the Stockholders after the 12th C
G. SIMTSON, Caihier. '
: t
By Authority. t
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64, 1
South Suond-Jlreet. F
SCHEME of a LOTTERY, »
For raising Sixty Thousand Collars, agrenbly to an Aft erf h
th 4 Lr S'l alure . of Pennfylvaaia, patted during the last
fethon, for building a Stone Bridge over the River .
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Bcrki - . , Dollars. «
a Prize of 20,000 Dollars )ao,oso V
t do. of 10,000 do. . . 10,000 I
3 do. of 5 ,000 do. . . 15,000
4 do. of 2,000 do. . . g, coo "
»o do. of I,oo® do. . . 20,000 i:
39 do - of 5 00 do. . . so,too V
80 uo. of goo do. . . . ,6,000 n
#00 do. of 100 do. . . . 10 ,000
300 do. of 5 o do. - . ij,eoo
i do. of joo do. to be psid the poffcf-) w
for of the firft drawn no. J 4 CO \
j do. of j,ooo do. to be paid poflTeffors ) u
of the fire last drawn nos J
J.4°° do - 0 : - .41,000 £
10,054 Prize* 300,000 tl
10,046 Blanks -
a l
30,000 Tickets at Tan Dollars aoc,oqo
All Prizes Ihall be paid fifteen days after the drawing is N
Snifhad, upon the demand of. a pofleflor of a fortunate f 0
ticket, fubjeQ to a dedufiion of twenty per cent. The 1
Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickets are disposed
,of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given. ' B£
Ihi lip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William Whitman, hi
Joseph Hiefler, Jsn:es Diemer, Thomas Dun das, j tli
Jamet May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel CraeJ, \ V
Sebnflian Miller', Commissioners. b<
Rending, May the 9th, 1796. J,,
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, Wo. to be had at the D
above office, where the carlisfl iniormatlon of the draw- j
ingof the Washington No. a, and Patterfon Lottery's,
are retired, and ch«ck hooks fcr examination and regif
taring are kept. 1 to
o<ftuber 7. j»wtf
CONGRESS OF tub UNITED STATES.
— \
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Friday, December 30.
Debate on the report of the committee of ways
and means, on the unfcttled balances due from
tit individual states to the United States.
f Continued.J
. Mr. Gilbert, said, he should not then have risen
again on the motion for the committee'* rising, had
it not been f»r the extraordinary observations just
made from th« honoorable gentleman from New-
Jersey. Mr. Gilbert faidyhe had never boasted of
the wealth of New-York, or made, or noticed, any
remarks like those imputed by the honorable gen
tleman—that he was .at 2 loss to fee, how that gen T
tleman's observations were applicable to the mat
ter under consideration, or indeed, admiflible on the
lt . ground of propriety—tl.ey seemed to him, he said,
to contain such insinuation, such implications, as he
was furpriled to hear advanced from so enlightened
a quarter. What state in the union, Mr. G. asked,
had not acted upon the fame principles relative to
property and jurifdiftion, with New-York ? Had
not, he said, every fovereigu state done the fame ?
And had not New-Jersey done the fame ? Has not
New.Jerfcy exclusively exereifed and claimed to
herfelf the benefit of all a&s of confiscation and
disposition of property within its jurifdi&ional com
pass ? And what state had ever ceded these things
to the union, or (liared the right with others ? Why
then, should fueh things be mentioned as (ingularly
e> a pplying to New-York ? As te her back unappro
be Pasted wild lands, Mr. G. said, it was well known,
that one of the principal creditor states (Maffachu-,
setts) had fully and, equally participated in the
wliole of them. But, said Mr. G. what has the
comparative indigence, or wealth of the states, to
do with the fubjeft of cenfideratien ? Because
j r New-York might be considered wealthy, he did
id no * it would therefore be considered that
Hie should pay—nor did he know how the gentle
t- man from New-Jersey would take it for granted
(he said) that the balance Handing against New-
York, was the result of a just fettlemcnt, and in
fact, a righteous demand. . He said, there could
not be a gentleman present, acquainted with that
buliuefs, who could, in liisfoul, believe it, especially
when he peiceived the immense sum rendered a
gainst. that state, far exceeding the balances against
all the other states united. In order, however, to
have a fair inquiry into that fubjeft, he really hoped
tj the committee would then rife.
Mr. Holland hoped, from the commencement
of this debate, that it would have been conduced
with temper and moderation ; but the gentleman
from New-Jersey (Mr. Dayton) had implicated all
the states which were reported to be debtor states.
Mr. H. said there was juftire in tbofe states; but
when it was generally believed that improper and
fraudulent charges had been admitted by theccm
miflioners. was it not to be expedted that there
would be a desire ia them to have a review of the
■ settlement ? He was confident whenever the debtor
e states should be convinced that the demands were
just, they would open their funds and pay them,
r but not before.
Mr. Dayton (the speaker) rose to give a short
t anfwei- to the members from North-Carolina and
New-York, who had commented upon his obfer
-1 vations. The former gentleman had insinuated
that those who advocated the motion had done it
> with intemperance bordering on indecorum, but
Mr. Dayton was happy to find that no expression
of his had been pointed out, which might be con
, ftrued into a violation of the ftridteft rides of deco
-1 rum and good order, unless indeed for him to fay
(hat certain Rates were debtors of the United
States, and that they ought to be required to pay
what they owed, could be liable to that conftrufti
, on. The member from New-York had affe&ed to
mifunderfland him when he spoke of their having
withheld from the other states and appropriated to
their own use that immense mass of property which
had been acquired in the course of the war with
Great- Britain and their allies, from the savages, at
the common expence, and bythe common exertion
of the force* of the United States. He fuppwed
that every member who heard him mtift have known 1
that he did not allude to petty confifeations, but to 1
those vast trails of land called vacant or crown
lands, in theconqueft of which every regiment be- J
longing to New Jtrfey as well as to other states '
were employed. New-York had beea willing that 1
thf union should participate with them in the ex- '
pence an<l danger of the conquest, but, after it 1
was efFe£ted, they had refufed any (hare of the be- 1
nefits, and thus by means of this and other spoils
had enriched their treasury. t
Mr. Gilbert laid, it would feern by the obferva '
tione of the gentleman from New-Jersey, that the 1
conduA of the state of New-York was fmgular 1
with refpe& to their having fold their vacant lands. *■
He would aJk if there was a state in the union 1
which had vacant land, which had not done the '
fame thing ? Had any such state ftiared its land
with the union i Certainly not, and he could fee 1
no propriety in the charge against New-York. !l
Mr. W. Smith wiftied to observe in reference to e
what had fallen from the gentleman from New- '
York (Mr. Livingfton) refpefting that state not ®
being bound by the decilion of commiflioncrs be- ''
cause the state had not coafented to the settlement. '
He would remark, that befidcs the co-operation of w
the teprefentatives of that state, they appointed an P
j agent to bring forward their claims which certain- ''
ly shewed their acquiescence to the proceeding. u
M. S. said he was surprised to hear gentlemen dwell "
so much upon the injustice of the proceedings of M
the cornmiffioners, and upon the improper claims
ndmitted, fincc lie did not know how they could
have come at their knowledge on the fubjeft, since .
those proceedings had never been made public. ~
With refpeft to the unfortunate frigate which had
been alluded to by the gentleman from New-York,
he cculd fay that the state ot S. Carolina was then »e
paymg-for that frigate, and that it was not charg- Io
ed to the United States as had been insinuated.
The committee rose, and on leave being asked r f
to fit again. ro
Mr. Harper hoped leave would net be given.— J t
■ He would not repeat reasons fat wifliing this, as he
had already laid them before the committee of the
whole.
Mr. Baldwin relied upon it that leave would be
given for the committee to fit again. It would be
in 1 fa& to purfuethe idea whiob-rhe gentleman him
jl felf had lately exprefled. The resolution under
n Consideration is commencing the negociation with
the dates which he had lecommended. Mr. B. ex
prefled great confidence that nothing would be ne
■ n Ceflary but t* commence this negociation, and that
id tfce states would at least discover a fatisfa&ory dif
ift position. If it was true, as had been contended
ir. by lnmc members, that tl»e general board of com
of miffioners had conduced the business tjadly, or
ty that they were wicked or currupted, or if it fhouW
n- be thought by the dates that they ha 4 proved
B . themselves unequal to the vork, as some seemed to
t. suppose, which would set aside their award, the
)e sooner it is known the better, that msafures may
be taken to form a new board and begin the matter
le anew. He persuaded himfelf when they commu
?d aicated with the ftatcs, it would be found there was
j t not one which would desire such a measure. When
0 he recalled the recolle&ion of the manner ia which
id the whole war.had been carried on without any rule
J of apportionment or any settlement of accounts be
it tween the states, and the ill-humour which had
.o grown out of it, canftantly aggravated by the yearly
d calls on the flares for monies to support the old
I. union, he was sure tfiat no perfoii who was a wit
rj ness to the tranfa&ions of those times, would have
y a W 'H' to fee them repeated. The amount was so
y K reat i an d the whole so perplexed, as well as irri
tating, that the frien «Js to the peace and union of J
the couatry have perhaps never experienced so criti
j. cal and anxious a period. The to
e bring forward their own Hate's claim, warmed by
e Io»al zeal and private intcred, and the councils of
ci 'he union were for years agitated by the violeace
° c and passions of parties fettling their own old dif
d puted accounts. Experience seemed to have con
j vinced evcty body, that no settlement could ever be
i. made in that way, that fomc persons mult be clothed
j with the character of judges, and the whole put
■„ over into their bands.
n In October, 1786, the ordinance for this pur
-3 pose firft pafTed. He believed it would be found
t by the journal that it pasTed unanimously. He
y had ncyer himfelf been witness to any public mea
sure which fee rued to take off such a preiTure from
> the mind of every one, or which was received with
d fach enthusiasm. Ihe meaCure was so popular and
j fatisfaAory, that it was thought expedieut the next
year to extend the provisions, and give larger pow
t eis of chancery to the general board. The Anal
j ordinance on thisfubje£i was then pafTed. Hebe
, lieved it would be found in the journal about May
j 6th, 1787, and that- this was alio unanimous. As
, tke formation of the government, under thepreCent
t constitution, the fame diTpofition continued, and
1 the ail jult read by the gentleman from South-Ca
. rolina, (Mr. Smith} was pafTed. If he miftuok,
, nor, this was without opposition.
, TKefe things, said he, are not unknown in the
. several states; the men who were concerned in th'efe
. times and events, are not all dead. He believed,
when they should commua'icate with the different
(late legislatures, these men would not be back
ward to (how themselves, and to (how that they
were ft ill of the fime mind, and faithful to their
engagements. I hough some individuals in this
house appear to be quite frefh on the fubjeft,
as if they had made freftvdifcoveries, and seem dis
posed to-begin anew, and fay all they know about
the S. Carolina frigate, Penobfcot expedition, fea
coaft guards, military .bounties, rule of quotning,
&c. &c. which had been for months, and almost
for years, the fubjefts of general fcramblc, he had
no apprehension that there would be found in the
dates any difpnfition to revive those difgraceful
scenes. However, if the states choose to go over
the bulinefs again, the sooner it is known the bet
ter. 1 his can only be done by writing to them as
the present resolution proposes. If they mean to
abide by the present settlement, and yet state incon
veniences ia complying with it, they who had ferv.
Ed mod with him knew, he had not often been an
an advocate for intemperance in public mcafures
He (hould not forbear to mention, that there was
one part of the fubjed which gave to him the molt
unpleasant sensations, and that was, where a state
had, in a manner which he thought waj not to be
judi6ed, obtained an advance from our treasury, of
certificates to the amount of cue million two hua
dred thousand dollars, in theaffumption, before the
settlement of the accounts, upon a falfe pre'fump
tion that we were indebted to them, when at the '
time they were indebted to us a million of dollars. !
He (hould never believe, until he had seen the at
tempt made, that they cauld be reluitant in re- '
turning to our treasury, the million two hundred
thousand dollars in certificates, which had in fadt
been advanced to them by mill ate, or that they
could expect in futh circumstances the states
to submit to a dire-dt tax to raise money to pay ]
them a quaiterly interest on those certificates. ,
Mr. Livingftoa could not permit it to go out to
the world in the aecouat of thisday's debates, that
he, or any of his colleagues, had made ufc of fucti '
expreflions as charging the commiflionet.s with be- [
mg wicked or corrupt, or with being bribed. Such
expreflions had neither fallen feom him nor his col- '
leagues. the highest refpeft for one of .'
them who was fincedead, bot still he believed men -
with the bed intentions, might have admitted im
proper charges to an immense amount. Indeed, if f
it were deteimined that the states (hould be called
Upon for the balances, he (hould bring forward a
resolution to the effed, and (how the grounds upon
which his suspicions were founded.
The committee had le»ve to set again, 1
Adjourned.
w—lb
Wanted on hire,
A Cook, male or female—alfo a man fervaat to at- si
tend in a private family and perform the dutie* be- ft
longing to the dining room. None need apply who
do not and have not been accustomed to the q
refpeflive fervicesand who are not well recommended
for honesty and good behavior. Ci
ApplyatN».lß», Mulberry.ftr«et,er to thepriater. a '
January si Mwzw p
By this day's Mail.
!! NEW-YORK, January 7.
i- The following late and important articles are ex.
;r trafted from London and Liverpool papers to No
h vember J7, received by the (hip Hope, Capt. Ed
c. gertion, arrived at New-London on Friday lad, in
36 days from [//rgusl]
it From London, Nov. 12.
f. Thq three Hamburgh mails due since Wednef
d day last, arrived in town this morni-ig. By the
letters which they biing it appears, that general
, r Wurmfer gained a complete vi&ory over the
!d French at Marmirolo, on the 7th ult. The loss
d of the latter, in the aflion, was between 4 and
0 50C0 men killed and taken, besides several pieces
e of cannon, many ammunition waggons, all their
y magazines and a mili'ary chest.
■ r Letters from Heidelberg of the 27th ult. con
[. firm the accounts of the signal advantages obtained
s by the archduke over general Moreau, between the
n 12th and 22d of P&ober. The loss of the A4l.
[1 ftrians on this occasion was about 2000 men ; tnat
e of the French was considerably grealer, some ac
counts making it amount to 8000 men. It fefmt
j to have been the objecft ess Moreau to raise the
y siege of Kehl, with a view 10 secure a retreat over
d the Rhine at Strafburgk; but the activity of th«
archduke had defeated this fchemtf; and after fere
e ral a£tiogs, in which he must hjve fultained very
j great loss, "be was compelled to make good his pas
. fagfc at Huninguen.
f 17.
There has b»en a report in circulation, that mi
, nifteis have received accounts from Bclfaft, that a
r vessel bearing American tolours had flood into that
f harbor, but feeing a kind's/hip lying at a>l hor,
. had endeavored to (Tioer „ff ; bur was taken, and
. it was found that she had I £,000 (laud of arms on
. board. The captain lad tune 10 burr) his p rs,
. and he would neither fay fr.nn win-use he cam,, or
| whither he was bound. Wc epeai the Itor ex
-1 aftly according ta rumor, but on the face of i.; it
is a molt improbable tale If there was any deiign
. either on the part of ihe qnetny, er, the dffiti !ed
| perf ns in that country (if there are a y really
, difaffetted) to froOjjgle fiji a ma into the kingdom,
. they would hardly have tent a vessel in, , ~-rt f®
, public as Bclfaft. The Irish papers fay ) i3 tb, rof
! such an event.
| Yesterday an account was received Iver, «-
(taring, that intelligence had been c« ..ed
. by the Telegraphe to Lifle,-a few h>rj >. he
| failing of a vessel fiom Calais auiv I)a t
in engagement had taker ~la&- ! , „ c t Au
trian general Alvimy, and Lh !• -u h ai M#4-
fena, on the 20th uit. neai »Trkite, vmiui the
former wercdcfeafed ; the F h'hi vmg ni*.;p a
bout 3000 croatt and;? •c. e ,ii ers p ii„n
er*. The cannon and • the- Au.
ftrians ajfo fell into their fit'
LIVERPOOL, N .ember 11.
The American (hip, Gtb Planter. Cihon, si n*
DerriKrara, is taken by ih* French, and .a.iicd
into Guadaloupe, where the fliip and cargo wa*
confifcated.
OFFENBERG, October ai.
On the 18th iuft. general Moreau endeavored
to penetrate with all his force to the vicinity oF
Kenfingen, to raise the blockade of Kehl, and
procure himfelf a free, passage over the Rhine.
Ihe afition was obflinale and bloody, but as loon
as the Hungarian grenadiers, headed by the areh
duke Charles, came up, fell like lions 011 the
enemy and forced them foretieat.
On the 19th, the Aultrians again attacked the
French in the ne'ighbnihoud of Rit'gela. This
battle was likewffc very bloody. General War.
tenflebea was wounded in the left aim by 9 grape
(hot- The loss of .he French is very coiffiaerable,
and they have been obli'ed to abandon Elliach
and Emraendingen.
) he head quarters of the arehriuke Charles were
rejnoved on the 20th from Herbollheim to Em.
raeridinjjen. IbeAuflrian troops have again en
tered i'reybourg, victorious; and
tien between general Moieau and the cprps whick
iad advanced to Huningue«, is cut off.
FRIBOURG, October 22.
Afier a continued fighting for four day*, the
Aultrians have driven the enemy from EJlzach<
and out 08 Friboui'g, into which they yelterday
enteied. .These advantages coll them about 2000
men ; but the enemy according to the account of
the i<rench generals themselves, loft between 5 and
6000 men, among which arc 2000 prisoners. The
French general Beaupais is killed.
RASI ADT, O(Sober 23.
On the 19th, the archduke attacked the Frenck
wuh hi* whole army, along the valley of Ellzach.
by Swonfwaid, and Ending, to the Rhine, and
totally defeated then^.
On the 7th', Wurmfer, witli the rreateft
part of his army, attacked the French st Marmi
rolo The battle lalled seven hours and ended in
the route of the French, who loft between 4 and
5000 me» in killed, wounded and prisoner*' seve
ral pieces of cannen, ammHiiition waggons, all
their magazmes.zoo oXfr)i and the ; r chVft.
he defeat was complete, and the Austrian cavalry
purfned the French quite to Veroua. The flaughl
leAufirians S>vc no quarter
on the road from Mantua to Verona.
VIENNA, O&ober 19.
We have finally letters from Mantua, dated 2d
and &t 1 Oftobcr, confirming not on/y the advanta.
ge* which Gen. Wuimfer has obtained over the
french on the nth, 15th, and-i 7 th of Septem
feer, but menrtoning also of another attack on them
on the 23d September, at the head of 15,000 me,,,
in which the French were compelled to retire from
ieveial posts which ihev occupied near thefottrefs.
Many waggons of prftvilions were taken from the
•nemy. General Wurmfer ordered on the 2Qih
September, a divifian ef 30C0 men, to attempt a
coup de main upon Goveru.»] o , occupied by about
as many French troop* ; but these troops were ,e
---puilcd antf.eturned to Mantua, with a lof* of f^;WrvWed men. On the 3d af'OAofesr gen. Warm
ie Mile another iortie, but was also repulsed, and
h' ettnn wiih lomr confulion inho the f»rt
rds. However these misfortuuev animated the
mure than it did discourage them. On the
6t of October gen Wurmfet went out again, and
V-tat the French. One of their columns was pur
sued by the Impel ial cuirafliers quite near to Vero
na. 1 'ie loss of the French mull have been very
corAdeiable, as those cuirafliers have sabred down
(or cut down with their swords) every Frenchmen
nil., was bctwefn Mantua and Verooa, where the
temnan o the fugitives took shelter in favour of a
fni 1 rilon which they keep there.
G ial Buanapirtc is undoubtedly fupetior in
mi mbe is -a t-en. Wuimfer, hut being obliged to
detach 10,000 m< n to k*ep gen. Davidovich in
relpeci, an j to leave men in the territories of
Viccnza, to watch Gvii. Qiiafdannovich's motions :
he cannot entirely prevent the attacks of general
Wurmfer. This is the piefent fitliation of Italy,
whole fate and the i(Tu* ot it exeije the general cu
rioli y. Gen. Alvinzy, who/direds the operati
ons ot both the la ft mentioned generals, was to b«
gin his operations in favor of Mantua by the
15th inft. whether he will fncceed we have to learn
yet.
According to letters from Dresden, the Eleflor
has res dved to fend £iis contingency of troops to
the Imperial army, and 14,000 men are on their
marc 1 irom Bohemia to join the archduke Charles's
army.
The news from general Latour'e army extend
to the 121U inft. Gen. Frohcli had rc polled the
enemy trwm Fengem ant) Rumingeu, with the loss
of three caunoas, 1 mortar, and 8 waggons of am
munition,, and gen. Baillet Jiflodged him from
Geiliugei. and Donau Etchingen. Field Marshal
Petrafcn intended tn march on the 12th tu Villin
gen, 10 attack the enemy there; aud our troops
advaijced as far as Alt Bryfach, to dcltroy the
bridge, but touad the fame already drawn on the
other fiae of the rivet. At Kehi the enemy is so
far concentred, that he cannot do any thing else
but to think on the defence of the fort, city and
the fortified village.
The day ot the Queen of France's decease has
been observed at Court on tbe 16th inft. in a fo
lem loittude.
Meifesgers are observed to go between London
and Naples more frequent than ever. It is believ
ed tlut r.«sw ncgociation* are impending between
botu courts.
PARIS, October 31.
Much is said of the immenfc preparations mak
ing for an invalion ; we mult, laid Ca
to, deltriry Cat cnage; we shall never conquer the
Romaos but in Rome, said Haonioal and Mithri
dates. Maifhal baxe often repeated, that rhe En
glish would never be conquered but iq/ London ; we
think, that if the Bntilh government rcfufes to accept
j'uft conditions of peace, anil if they persist arming
£urope againlt the republic, we mult carry the war
to the ank of the Thames, and force the government
to accept the olive branch. We do not diflembie the
multiplied dangers of such an enttrprize, fu.cefs is
douhitul; but, perhaps, it is ncceflary to hazard it,
for the repafe ot Europe- and the glory of the French
republic.
November t.
A private letter from Genoa announces, that the
inhabitants of Baffia, inftrudled of the departure of
the Englilli, and 4hat they were making difpofuions 10
blow up the h>rt by two mines, took »p ai ms agamll
them, and detained the governor as prifoncr.
'Ike dey of Algiers is exerting himfelf in the most
spirited manner to maintain tne independence of his
ports I she English have infringed that independence
and taken a bpamfh frigate there, the Algerines have
reclaimed it 1 and are preparing their whole maritime
force!
November 6.
* * Citizen Direftois,
I hasten to commumcate to the executive direc
tory the reception ot letters from Brett, ot the
3d in Its nt (November) brought by aH extraoidi
nary coutitr, whrub announce that a general revt>.
lution has just taken place in lieland- This inte
resting news came by two ships brought iato the
road the fame evening by our privateers, and which
lately failed from Liverpool. Their captains ltate,
that the Irish, after taking pofleflion of near 30,000
Aand of arms in Dublin, attacked and defeated
10.000 Englilh troops! that the militia joined the
insurgents ; and that the whole country is in a state
of infurredtion. The arrest, and some other ar
bitrary proceedings, of which the Englilh minilter
!; accused, fecmed to have provoked this commo
tion.
Health and refpeA,
TRUGUET.
General Bournonville to the Executive Directory.
MULHEIM, 3 d Brumaire, OS. 28.
I had the honor to give you an aecouut yeiter
day of the attack of the atmy made by the ejy?iny
in the night between the 29th and 30th Veade
maire, (ilft and 22d Odt.) upon the tiead of the 1
biidj;e and the Isle of Neuwcid ; he has projected
nothing lei's than to make the garrifpn prisoners of
war, and to rarfe the works, and finally to cut off
the communication of the left wing with the right
of the aimy. This affair cost the enemy more than
four thousand men.
BOURNONVILLE.
BRUSSELS, OA. »o.
General Bournonville, on account of the want
ef discipline in his army, has declared, that ail
Ithofe who wetc so difprderly as to pillage should be
ftiot without mercy.
' ARMY OF ITALY.
The general of divifton, chief of the ftaff, to the
executive directory.
Head-quarters at Milan, Veadeniaire f
the 29th, Oft. 11.
iGfa.cn DireStrs,
I have the honor to fend yoa the bulletin of the
army of the 17th Vendemaire, by which jr»u will
learn, that the firft sortie which Gen. Wurmfer at
tempted from Mantua, was not fortunate for him.
(Signed) $ERTHIER.
BRCXELLES, Oftoher 2®.
Or. flic 3 1 ft irdtant, 'all the convents will be eva
ttate in all our departments .
; bulletin of the army ofitaly.
MILAN \ Vmdemairt the 17 th—Oct. 8.
The enemy's having be&i greatly dikurbed by
the fire which was ordered to be set to the haycocks
which happened to be.bet ween our own polts and
the citadel, made a sally with a design of proeur
mg fire wood and forage. They marched to Loave
by the road leading from the citadel to the country,
and attacked the cattle of Prada, defended by the
chief of battalion Dfllons, at the head of 300
men of the 69th demi brigade.—One battalion of
the Itth demt-brigade, and one piece of cannon,
baring arrive*! to reinforce that poB, the enemy
were routed and pursued a* far as the glacis of the
citadel. The republicans took from that detach
ment about too prifonent, and killed IJ mo and
as many horses. On the fide of the French, a few
men were wounded.
From among the officers who distinguished them
selves, we are to notice citizen Majjue, a captain
in trie 69'h demi brigade, who, with a small de
tachment of his demi-brigade, took 117 prisoners.
BERTHPER.
ARMY OF THE RHINE AND MOSELLE.
Hauffmity* Commissary /# the Government. .
Strafb'furg, Vendemaire 23, Oft. 24.
Citizen Dire Sort,
The general in chief arrived here last night. He
crofied the river with the divisions commanded by
G<rn. h r . Cyr, which have forced their way by the
valley of Enfer, beating the enemy, on which tluy
'iave obtained very imoottant fucceflet. The Ge
neral is a: this moment at Kclil. I (hall fee him
on his return. He has spied and wateiied the posi
tion o( Priiiv e Charles, and intends to return to
Friburgh this night. 1 have received certain infor
mation that gen. DefTaix now occupies the defiles
of the mountains ; that gen. Ferino is in the
neighbourhood of the foxft-towns, and the gene
ral head quarters are at Horrach, where I am now
going. Ihe soldiers are in hiijh spirits, well dis
posed, and in formidable position.
(Signed) HAUSSMAN.
FRANCKFORT, Oa'oher 22.
We learn si m OIT-nburg that general PetrafcK
intended to obftruft the retreat of general Moreau,
through the Bla, k Forest, Hut wis repulsed with
loss of men, said to amount to iyoo, and of some
b a g&*ii c a "d artillery. Tbe imperialirfs, though
they fought *ith the greatest bravery,could not re
fill the superior number of the French. It is net
expected that general Mo r eap will speedily recrofs
1 the Rhine, as his pohtion at FryboUrg is very ad
vantageous, his ritar being cveied by that tiver,
and tioth his wings by thi- fortrefles of Strasbourg
and Huningen. Meanwhile the archduke Charles
is collediong all the dispersed deta hments, to pie
vent general Moreau's advancing, and it is therefore
very probable that a very decisive battle may hap
pen in the invitons of Brifgau. General Moreau
has affected his retreat so well by feigned marches,
and his frequent attacks on the imperialists, which
were alway* made in mass.
MILAN, October 10.
Extrait of a letter of general Buonaparte, to the
senate bf Bologna, who sent to him the late ma
nifcfto of the pope.
The manifetlo which you sent tome, is not sign
ed, and I doubt whether it is from the pope or
from an enemy of the religion. Woe to them who
attract the vengeance of the French nation ! Woe
to kUvenna, Facenta, and Rimini, which are lo
much led in-o error. These cities lay aside the
jsfpeft which they owe to a viftoiious army. The
reign'of fednftion will cease, and liberty alone will
icraai matter of part of Italy. The moment is at
hand wbep Italy will fhiiw with honour amongll
poweiful nations, Lombardy, Bologna, Msdena,
R e gg'"» Ferrara, and perhaps Rufaagna, will, on
a future day, be the admiration ofEurope. Hurry
to take arms ! That part or Italy which is yow free
is rich and populous. Make the en-mies of your
rights and liberty tremble. I shall not lose you
out of fight. .The republicans will {hew the road/
to vi&ory. Learn from" I hem to vanquish ; I (hall
lead your battalions
From the (New-York) Daily Adzertifer.
Extract of * letter from a refpeAhble Merchant in
New-Londnn to his correspondent in this I'try.
" By a vessel arrived here 11. a short passage from
Liverpool, we have London account! to the 15th Nov.
Accounts are different with refpeA to Lord Malmf
bury's embafly ; from his long tarrying at Paris, it is
fuppol'ed something pacific will talve place. The
French have been severely beaten by toe Archduke ;
Moreau was obliged to re cross the Rhine on the 26th
O&. In the London Gazette he is , ( faid to have been
greatly harraffed in his retreat, and that he loft much of
his baggage, cannon, &c. It is said that most of the
French generals are tired of liberty and equality, and
wifd to resign. The news from the army of Italy is,
that Wvirmfer made a sally from Mantua, on the 7th
j Oil. and routed Buonaparte, with great loss ; all his
' magazines were deflroyed, four or fivr thousand men
were killed, and 200 oxen were taken. Other accounts
fay, Wui infer made another sally about the 17th, (id
defitoyed all their works, and put a great nu'mber*to
the sword ; a few more such Itrokei will oblige the
French to abandon Italy."
Remarks en the Abvve Intelligence.
On the receipt of the above we have made a careful
comparison of different accounts in order to reconcilc,
if pdiTible, the apparent c»ntradi<Sion of a part of them*
The firft advantage, flateil above to ha, e been obtain
ed over general Buonaparte, is said to have taken place
on the 7th OA. —The last advices from this general
are on the Bth, in which he states the capture of a small
sortie from Mantua, and fays nothing of defeats. We
are also in pofTeffion of a letter from Alex. Berthier,
the commissioner, of a similar date and purport. The
above account therefore if true, mult be incorrect, as
to date. Under Vienna dates, however,, of 19th Oil.
given this day, an afiertiun is made of advantages ob
tained by general Wurmfer on the 6th which, in some
measure, coroboratcs the London account. As to the
I'ubfcqucnt a<Sion on the 17th, the Vienna arcounts, of
the above date, speak of Gen. D'Alvinzy being order
ed to aiil in favour of General Wurmfer on the 15th.
This makes the statement of an a&ion with General
Suonaparte having taken place on the 17th conlidera
bly probable. Th* aflion with General Moreau on
the Rhine, ob the 20th, is also rendered probable by
the Frankfort accounts of the 22d, which we also give
this day. From a comparison of these different ac
counts, which we have give* to aflift our readers, they
will be enabled to judge for theeafalves.
1
STRASBURC, Oft. 6.
Four thouliud Auiiriin; have their head-quarfers at
Ciermeflieim. Detachments from that bodyiire eon
ftantly making inclirfions in the country. The inhab
itants in the environs of Lamerburg who had taken up
arms, and who'had been ported along the banks of the
Rhine, have Returned their arms and gone to their
homes.
S itzerland is arming For the maintaining of their
neutrality. We learn by our last letters, that the dif- !
triil of Zurich have raifc.l too men, that Bern has
raised five thousand, which are to receive ah additional
number of five thousand more. At St. Oail they are
likewise raising troaps to join the above.
Oih. 10.
The Auftrians polled near Sunten, made a move
ment, the day before yesterday, which indicated an at
tack on fort Kehl, The affair was limited to only a
fmlll discharge of mufquetry, in which we.had fix men
wounded The enemy made the greatest efforts to
burn the great bri Ige on the Rhine, but all the neces
sary precautions have Ixen taken to render their pre
jeits abortive.
We this day expefled to be attacked at Kehl. Yes
terday the Archduke parted before the fortrefs, direcl
inghis march towards the Upper Rhine.—A detach
ment of Aullrians mult by this time have taken posses
sion of Fribourg. Ihe French garrifen confiding of
800 men, having previously evacuated this capital of
the Brifgaw in order to reinforce the cfirps which it
polled to defend the intreachments nearHviningue.
General Maignot replaces general Scherb, who !<
now suspended from his functions.
The Aullrians had required ot the diftriil ofLau
terburgh a contribation of four thousand florins, this
not being complied with, they have carried off,
fix Foliages among wh'ch are four Jews.
Three thousand men of the national guards of Hag-1
nenau, and of Schelelladt are now organizing ajtd are
intended to form a corpj partly of horse and°partly of
foot ; this corps is to be commanded by the old gene
rals Frienfholtz and Hemllaeder. We also expect a
considerable reiaferceihent of troops, which is to ar
rive to morrow. ,
PARIS, Oil. 19.
In the last secret committee of the Council of Five
Hundred, the treaty concluded with the King o'f Na
ples was approved of.
COLOGNE, OA. 8.
The movements on the right bank ef the Rhine Hill
continue. The vanguard has ma.ched further up the
Sieg, not a lingle Ihot was exchanged. The Auflri
ans have Hill l'ome detachments on this fide of the Sieg,
and their patroles go even as far as Portz.
AIX-LA-CHAPIELLE, Oa. 9.
The army of the Sambreand Meufe and that of the
,\ T orth united, form a corps of go thousand men all '
w'ell difciplmed. They art very aflive in reforming
or rather difdvargiiig unfit and fufpedled persons from
all the armies.
> BRUSSELS, OA. 11.
On the sixth ofOfl.at bieak of day, the left wing
of the army of the Sambre and Meufe with the divi
iions Oi that of the North, made a grand and general
movement in all their positions. A corps of J about
arj.ooci men directed their march towards Mulheim,
where they entjmped oa'that fame evening ; the pa
trolls of light troops of both parties have had several
Ikirmilhes in which both have had men killed and
wouHded.
ELSINEUR, Oflober 22.
Three 74 Ruffian. men ot war, a frigate and ?
brig, are returned here from Copenhagen, to pro
ceed to England.
Philadelphia,
MONDAY EVENING, JANUARY 9, 1797.
-S
The PRtsrDFNT of the United States, and
Family, will honor the Thoatrij with their company
this evening.-—
We have received a i'eries of Hamburgh p?pers to
the sth Nov inclusive—Translations tn-morrow. —A
letter from duonaparte » the Executive Direflory
dated Oil. 17, —informs that he has fentgeaeral Gen
tilli to take polftllien of Corsica, Which appears to have
been evacuated by the Englilb.
We have been favoured with a Madrid Gazette con
taining a inanifello of the Spanish court and declara
tion o: war against Great Britasn dated the jth Ofl.
We (hall give in our next a t.-anllatioa of this intend
ing Hate paper.
A letter from Cadiz dated OA. 24, and inclosing the
above inanifeflo, mentions an eugagement.between the
Britilh frigate Terpficore r.f 44 guns and the Spanilh
frigate Mahoneza of 34, which latter, after a contest
in which file had 27 men killed and several wounded,
was taken and carried into Gibraltar. (Aurora.)
COMMUNICATION.
The talk which is at present impofei on the jfaco
binsby theirctusl fate isTeally to be pitied. They
are forced to take the unpopular fide, and that colls
them tome qu,ilms of fear, though none of conscience,
for while a thing is merely wrong they care not, if the
people will receive it for a time. It ha« been their art
to find out fubjcdH of irritation, and inflame the pas
sions of the citizens as much as pofiible. The oppo
sition to the excise. to the treaty, &c. &c. are exam
ples. Bit now the country is clearly and de-iidedly
with the government, and indignant against all the
nte ifures of foreign intermeddlcrs, yet notwithlland
ipg, our Jacobins are obliged to stick to their employ
er. Their taithfulnels and their spirit do them credit.
They are good swiss, the bell of mercenaries. If the
aflignats should fail, no doubt, they would drop off,
for they take the motto, point d'argent, point Ae/uiJ/e,
•u de dimtcratt. And in point of candour it would
be wrong to take their services, if they were not well'
paid t-or them. To degrade our owa country and go
vernment, and to swear as they do that true liberty and
happiness exist only in fight of the guillotine, to tell
thepeopla with tV.e Bollon Chronicle ihat their dispo
sition toward# France is rebellious, to do and fay all
theft and ten thousand other infamous things is worth
a good deal. O Jaeobins, great ftould be your re
ward, for great will be your, condemnation.
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turnpike
Company,
January 6, 1797.
At a meeting of the President and Managers, a di
vidend of five dollars per (hare, was declared for the
last half year, which will be paid to the Stockholders,
or their representatives any time after theitft of this,
month.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treafarer.
JI»VT4W.
Mms. g rattan
Refpeflfully informs her friend*, and the public in
general, that an Tuesday the loth day of January,
(he propaofes opening, at No. 39, North Sixth
; street, 1
Linen and Muslin Warehouse*
Book Muslins, from 6/3 to ii/n per yard
. : Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to 9/8 per yard
' Striped ditf«, from 7/io to 10/10 per yard
Fine GolTaes
I Timbour'd Book Muslins, from 13/9 t« it/per yard
India Muflia, from ir/j to ISf par yard
Sheeting Mufim
' Jaconet tuuflin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 to 6/ pet hdkf»
Book muslin Handkerchiefs from 5/3 to ia/6 per hdkf,
Muslin color'd and border'd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchiefs
Tambour'd Cravats from 10/3 to tifll
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, froaa ix/j to 16/3 per yard
Table Cloaths
H uckabsck Towelling
Women's Cotton Hose, from 6/3 to Ij/per pair
Dimity from 5/10 to <y"n
Men's Silk Hose
Tambour'd muslin Handkerchiefs from 11/ic to 13/%
Irilh linens f#r Gentleireo's'Shirts, irom 2/11 to 5/
And a variety of other articles. •
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready mad*
Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, CrsTats,
Pocker Handkerchiefs, &c. &c.
Houlhold Linen, &c &C.
January 9. ' *
-
WM. HATDON,
Drawing-Mailer, from London,
Where he has itudied several years under one of
' the most eminent mailers in that science, attcndl
young Ladies ard Gentlemen at their refpeihveiiomet.
His terms are 6 dollars per month for attendance three
times per week Likewise all kinds of ornamental
Painting, Flowers, Fruit, &c. taught on the above
, terms. A line direfled to W. H. left with the Editor
of this Gazette, will be immediately attended to.
January 9. *3t
Notice to Creditors.
The Assignees of Bernard Dougherty late of Bed*
1 ford County, will make a dividend of the effe6U ia
their hands, immediately after the firft day of Februa
ry next to filch Creditors as may furnilh their account!
before that time.
Thomas Smith
Thomas Fitzfimons ( Affi
Isaac Hazlehurft C
Miers Fisher J
Philadelphia, Jan. 9, 1796. divr
' £5" The Member! of the Society for Alleviating
the Mi'eries of Public Prisons, are requested to attend
their stated meeting, at the Cierman School-House in
Cherry-alley, the 9th inft. at 6 o'clock in the evening.
CALEB LOWNES, Sec'ry.
January 6.
Boarding and Lodging
May be had at No. 6a, Pent,-ftreet, in a creditable
family
January 9 .
Notice.
THE Advertifcris a perl'on 1 egularly bred, and
csrried on in an extensive manner for thrfe 30 y-art
past, the various branches of Goldsmiths' and Jew
ellery, plated and hard-ware Cutlery, and Ironmonge
ry business, and lias general knowledje of the Dry
Good and many rther bufineiTes He has aparticular
taste for building, has built extensively for himfelf,
has conduced buildings for others, and is of opinion
hat hi*-frrvices to any jfentleman that might be in
went of a to condudt any of the aforeUid buli
nefles, would not onlj be ufeful but an acquilition, as
he will engage on liberal terms, e.ither as a falrfman
or to fell on coramiffion as »n agent, aft as a partner or
take the care-os a mawufadtory, or superintend build
ing, &c. He is a married man, and having no family
hut his wife who would adt as a saleswoman or houle-
Wetper- No obje&ion to any part of th» Southern
Rates, or to take a voyage to Europe as a lupereargo.
Aline direaed to J. C. to the car* of the printer,
will be punctually attended to.
N. B. He is weil acquainted with most of Eng.
lifh, Irilh, and Scotch manufactories, as he carried on
business for ten years in London, but on account of
unavoidable misfortunes'in his country, he is now for
ced to feck far a living for hirafclf and wile in this
way, and he flatters himfelf that he will give entire
-f«iisfa<S>ion to his employer. And as he is \T_el! known
in this city, and to the most refpe<£iab!o charaflers on
the continent, doubts not but his charade* morality
and indefatigable industry, will bear the flri&eft en
quiry
.. Dec. z9. law t f
Dancing.
MR. FRANCIS of the New-Theatre, in conjunAlon
with Mr. BYRN, late Ballet-ntafter and principal dan
eer of Covent-Garden Theatre, London, now of' the
New Theatre in this city, opened their Aoadimy at Mr.
Oellers Hotel, on Tuesday, December 13,^ where th«y
propose to teach, in the most new and approved methods.
Dancing in its various ufeful and ornamental branches.
Mr. Byrn's recent attention to the dances of London
and Paris will enible him to complete this branch of
education in his scholars in the most finifhed style.
Favorite Scotch reels will also engage their particular
attention.
The days of teaching for their young pupils are Thurf
days and Saturdays, from three o'clock in the afternoon
till fix—and onTaeidays & Th#fdays, from fix till nine,
for those of a more advanced age.
For farther particulars enquire of Meflrs. Franum
and Byrn, No. 70, north JJighth-ftreet.
*„* Private tuition as usual.
Phihdtiphia, December 16, 1796. oaw
I F 0 R S A L E,
A. very Valuable Eitate,
CALLED riVITTENH'AM, fitttate in th»
townihip of Upper Derby, and/countyof Delaware,
7 i-a miles from Phiiad lphia, and half a mile from tfe*
new Weftcrn road (containing; 230 acres of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood*
land, and the reft arable of the firft quality. There ar«
on the premises a good two story brick house, with 4 raome
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-wcli
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, tables*
and other convenient buildings; a fmoke-hdufe and stone,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peacU*
e«. The fieWs are allin clover, except those immediately
uader|tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each o£ them, which renders it peculiarly cow*
venient for grazing.
The situation is pieafant and healthy, and from the hick
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and th*
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable fox a gentleman*!
country f«at.
The foregoing is part of the eflatc of Jacob Haimon,
dece&fed, and offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
OA' 31. taw Surviving £>ec\.tur.S W A N N'S
Ruling School, fhrfe Academy £f1 Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Squ*re ? Market Street. gj
T. SWANN "
RETURNS his sincere thanks totnofe gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, during his residence hi this |Cky, and
flattershimfelf that the fucccfs of his effoits, in the numerous, ,
©bftitiate and dangerous difcafts in Horfts, in which he has
been eonfulted, together with his moderate chargcs, will (e
----ure their future favors and recommendation.
He now £egs leave to inform them and the jaublic at large
that his spacious and commodious pcemifes, eredfced for the
purposes above deferibed are ope* for the reception of pupils
of either sex, who wifhto beinftw&ed in the Art as Riding I
and the right method of governing their horses, so is to ride y
them with ease, elegance, and lafety—their horfcs will be j,
6arcfully and r-xpeditioufly broke, for every purpose, and v
made obedient tot he will of the riders ; the natural powers a
which are Abut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all those beauties of. a&ion which providenee has so bounti- c
fully bellowed on them. N
Also, at his i»»fpitai, every difor'er to which the horse is \
liable will be treatsd according to the rules of art, •onfirrwed
by long and repeated experience. 4 •
The utility of the above institution has never tewiqneftion
ed, that it has long been wanted ia this city, every gentleman's
stud wili manifetl, and T. Swann as the ft fit eftabllfher of
tqc vejerenary art, solicits a*d relies upon the fuppoit of that
public (which he is ever anxious in serving) to enable him to (
Diingit to perfection. The idea of a fubfeription for *hat
purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who with to (
promote the inftitution —the amount of each fubfeription to
be returned by services in any of the departments, he profeffes,
agreeable to the rate of charges stated in his hand bill. Such
fubfeription is now open, and the signatures of many'refp©£l
able gentlemen already obrained. He therotore injorms his
friends and/such Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he (hall in a few day* take
the liberty of waiting upon them and folic wing their support
and protection.
N. B. Hoifes are properly prepared for those Ladiesand
Centlemenwho wifti to be iuftru6ied.
Nov. 54. tth&f.
In Council, 22d December 1796.
The Executive of Virginia will, on or before the fir ft
day of March next, be ready to receive propolals fur the
importation from Europe, of
Four thousand stand of Arms.
To be delivered at Richmond, in the course of the ensuing:
year—Each ftaad to eonfift of a mufktt, the length of
the barrel to bre three feet eight inches, and to receive a
ball of the size of eighteen to the pound —a double bridled
lock upon the best conftru&ion —neat brass mounting—
fteei ramrod, and to be well Itocked with black walnut;
and a bayonet one foot five inches in the blade—a car
touch box, suitable to the musket, to contain twenty-four
cartridges, with neat black leather belts, mounted with
bjraf* buckles ; together with abrufh wiper for the pan,
and picker for the touch-hole. The Executive will also
be ready to receive proposals, within the period above
mentioned, for the manufacturing within this Rate, the
like nnmbcr of Hand of arms, to be delivered at Rich
mond, in the course of the year 1798.
By order of the Executive,
Attest,
A. Blair, C. C.
Jan. 6. *eo3t.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
A new method of keeping Bill Books,
Adapted for the ease and convenience of merchants
in general ; but particularly for those who are ex
♦enfively concerued in trade: exhibiting at one
view, all the bills which a merchant may have to
receive or pay, irt ihe coutfe of the whole year,
f«r each month feparatively. And thereby pre
venting the trouble and inconvenience attendant on
the mode now in use, of fele&ing the bills due in
each month from the promifcueus entries ef several
months.
To which ii prefixed,
A table (hewing the number of days from any day
of any month, Io the fame day in any other month.
Philadelphia, priflted for and leld' by R. CAMP
BELL & Co.
January 2. tawtf
Paterion Lottery.
FOR railing fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven
dollars and fifty cents, by a dedu<stior\ of fifteen per
cwitfrom the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000
I 1000 1000
£ JOG 500
5 aoo ioco
30 100 aooo
99 50 4950
*0© 2$ 50 OO
aooo 1© ao,ooo
5 Last drawn numbers of rooo dollars each, 5000
*33* Prizes. 44>4J0
4018 Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, , 44,450
By order of the Directors of the Society for eltablifh
ing UCeful Manufa<stures, the fupermt-endJmts of the Pat
erion Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
foregoing Soheme to the public, and have dire&ed them
to refund the money to those persons who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for ticket*
n this Lottery.
The lottery has actually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be feeri at the office ot William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second street, who will where tick
ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 17965
J. N* GUMMING, ")
JACOB U. HARDENBERG y > Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, )
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
I Prize of 50©© - - 5000
I 1000 ... 1000
1 s©o - 500
5 300 . - - loo©
so ico - - aooo
90 5© 4500
165 ii - 4"#
The five last drawn tickets, 1000 e«cli, 5000
Being all the valuable prizes, betides a full propor
tion of the 10 dollars.
As the Lottery is considerably more than cuie third
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great
ly incrcafed, and it is worth the noric# of those
who hold tickets in the old fchemc, -that they can ex
change i4ieir tickets for thole in the above, if they ap
ly too*, and at a moderate advance eonlidering the
now real value of. an undrawn ticket.
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing in
future will be ofieasr, and the Lottery soon finifoed.
November it. mws
Bank of North-America,
January 2, 1797.
At a meeting of the Dire<stors this day, a Dividend ol
Six per Cent. was 'declared for the lafc half year, which
will be paid to the Stockholders or their reprefentatiires,
at any time after the 10th instant.
By order of the Board.
dti6th JOHN NIXON, President.
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE and PRICE, v
No. 79, Market-street, Philadrithia,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
! London, i la'ge aflortment »f WARRANTED J
I WATCHES, e»nfifting of horizontal, capp'd and
jcwel'd Gold Watches, with feeoads, of superior c
workmanship and elegance ; also capp'd and jewel'd j
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jewell'd, capp d, t
fecondi, day of the mo«th, and plain Silver Watches ;
eight (fay & chamber Clocks; elegant French Clocks i
with marble frames ; eight day and thirty ho«r, brass
worka, Ac.
Deoembet 22, 1796. dam
CAUTION.
WHEREAS yery Urge and heavy debts are justly
due and owing from meflrt. Blair M'C.Unach m ant!
Patrick Mtart, of the city of Philadelphlz, merchants,
trading under the firm of Blair M'Slenaehan and P. \
Moore, and from Blair M'Clenathan in his separate ,
capacity ; to which, by the laws of the land, all the
joint as well as separate property of the said Gentle
men, is,, and ought to be, liable. And whereas
it is clearly and fatisfailorily afctrtained, that mr.
Blair M'Clenachan, of the said' firm, has conveyed
away to mr. John H. Hujion, his son-in-law, to his
daughter, miss M'Clenachan, and to his son, George
M'Clenachan, fevtral large and valuable real eitates,
as well a» eonfiderable personal property, in the city
and county of Philadelphia, in the county of Lancal
ter, in the county of New-Castle on Delaware, and
elsewhere, with a view, as it is apprehended, to de
feat the Creditors in the recovery of their just debts.—
This is, therefore, to forewarn all perfoas whamfo
ever, against the purth afe from the said grantees, or
either of tliera, of any portion of the said real orper
forial property, as the most vigorous measures will
without delay be taken to render the fame liable to
the just demands of the Creditors.
By order of the Creditors.
Thomas Fitxflmom,
Philip Nicklin, S'
' Isaac Vharton, * Committee.
William M'Murtrie,
Samuel W. Fijher, -J
Philadelphia, December 17th, 1796. icth.J
1 < TO THE PUBLIC.
r
s THE caution introduced into the public prints,
e warning all petfonr. against purchaling from «fie
grantees of Bliir M'Clenachan, any portion of the
large, real and personal estates he conveyed away to
hit fon>in law and to his children was the result of
a deliberation hid upon the fubjeft by a general and
numerous meeting of the creditors as well of Blair
M'Clenachan and P. Moore as of Blair M'Clena
chan individually. It was no more than an execu
tion ef that trull confidad in the fubferibers by
those creditors : a (lep which it would have been a
s breach of duty and honor in them to have omitte 1.
The very statement of the fadt therefore mull dif
e pel the imputation that it was either " precipitate
0 or vindidtive." It originated in a desire to fccure
r the property of the debtor as a fund for the pjy
ment of his just debts. It was fandlioned by the
n advice ofcouocil as a measure necejfary to the fafety
n of the creditors. If the advertisement has been
a l injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
to his own unjaftiliable conduct, not to the fub
feribers who have merely publilhsd the truth in
_ terms as mild as the would admit, and who
mean to investigate in a high court of jtiftice the
>. validity of those purchases of which Mr. M'Cle-.
nachan so confidently speaks.
The fubfcribsrs therefore are bound by a sense
of duty to the creditors in general to repeat their
eaution again! purohaGng of those .grautees or
either of them, and to extend the terms of it ta a
purchase from any other perfon6 (if fueh there)le)
to whom Mr. M'Clenachan may have made similar
conveyances.
>0 (Signed) T. FITZSIMONS,
>° , P. NICKLIN,
)0 ISAAC WHARTON,
WILLIAM M'MURTRIE,
ro SAMUEL W. FISHER.
>o Philad. Der. at, 1796.
>0 Ip'r Those printers who have been requested to
>0 publish the firft Caution, are desired to publilh this
~ also.
;o 1 ~
Washington Lottery,
ro N°. I. 1
b- "XT rHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
t- V V the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand
ic two hundred, and fifty dollar*, for the purpose of catting
m a Canal through the City of Walhington, fron th Fo
:d tomacto the Eaik-rn Branch Haruour.
rs The following is the SCHEME of No. I:
Via ''I Prize of »0,000 dollars, 10,000
ill I ditto lOjOGG 10,000
es 7lad drawn") , ...
14 Tickets, each j
It- 6 ditto 1,000 6.000
10 ditto 400 4,000
ao ditto 100 1,000
SS ditto 50 1,7.50
'S. 57J0 ditto 12 69,008
To be raised for th# Canal, 46,15®
1 %
)0 58.50 17J.000
)Q 11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17 joo Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
The Commilßoners havs taken the Securities re
quired by the afore&id aA for the punctual payment ol
50 the prizes.
The drawing ef tlmLottery will eomhience, without
30 delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
r " notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th
r d drawing is finifhed, shall be considered as relinquished for
t- the benefit ®f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly,
fe (Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, of D
P- LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON, ,
in ' THOMAS LAW,
d- JAMES BARRY.
CitX as Waihingioii, Feb. 11. 5
Horses taken in,
For the Winter Season,
And fed on clover hay at the Subscribers place, 11
ailes on the liriftol Road, where good {tabling is pro
vided, and great care will ba taken of them P 1
William Bell. ■ £
Nov. 1 [. mwfiwmthtf.
7 DANCING SCHOOL. I
J ii
WILLIAM will open his school on Men-
day the 31ft inft. at ten in the morning, at hi#
Elegant JSew Ball, Rooms, 0
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets, p
Hours of tuition for young from 10 to 1 o'clock fj
on Mondays, Wcdnefday, and Friday mornings; and for tl
young gentlemen from f> to 9 o'clock on the evenings o t
the fame days.
In addition to a number of new cotillioas, he means bo
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels —
Note. The frrft pra&ifing ball to be on Tuesday e
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every
Tuesday, during the season. '
For terms, &c, enquire at his house, N*.l34> Market
ftrect. ,r..
oa. 17. tthf t
A Manufatftory FOR. SALE. «
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufaflorv, situate '
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almost new,
on an entirely original conftiuftion, and built of ihe fcefl
materials, and mav be set to work immediately. Petfons
whowifhto purchase, arc requested to apply at No 7,73,
South Second Sireet. September 13. t t f rt 1
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber on the 3jd Oilobar,
a Dark MWLATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 11 years
old ; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mked green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons ;
a striped veil; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change (
his name and dress. He has been aceutlomed te driving (
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will lie j
paid for i'ecurirtg him so that the fubferiber may get htm (
again, and if brought home al.l reasonable charges paid by .
Robins Chamherlainc.
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aflortment of every thing necelTary
» to be ul'ed for*he
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Minoral Teeth, and Humau & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice ia powder ; Opiate j excellent Elixir for
lweetening the mouth and preterving the teeth —he
also fumifhes Brushes and foft Sponges.
' %* He lives in Chefhut-ftreet, No. 135, abeve
Fourth-flreet.
: November 26.
\ Samuel Richardet
I ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
IV Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
r TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
" city of Philadelphia;
The Subscription Room will be fumiihed with all the
r daily papers puhlifted in Philadelphia, New-York, Bof
j ton, Baltimore, together with thole of the principal com
mercial citiss of Europe—Theyj will he rugnlarly filed
and none permittod to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
e of French Liquors; together with the usual refreihments,
e will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend 011 being accommodated with
[ the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
e approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
f The Larder will befupplied with the prime and sarlieft
II productions of the Season.
y Large and fnoall Farties, o» single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenient to th«mfelves—a cold Collation is
n regularly ksptrfor conveniency, th* Billof Fare to be had
0 at thu bar.
e The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhf d, and
. the utnioft attention paid to cleanlinafs, and every other
rcquilite.
■gy S\muel Richardet will be happy to receive, and
e j execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
r 1 large; and with gratitude fur their favours, he pledges
r himiel- that nothing on his part shall be wanting to pre
a leryethat patronage with which he has been so diflinguifh
\ ingly iionored.
' Philadelphia, April Tq. mwf
Treaiury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE i 6 hereby given, that prapofals will he re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Tfoafury
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en
suing, for the supply of all rations which may he required
for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
June, 1797, to the thirtv-firft day of May, 1798, both
'.° days inclusive, at the places and within the diftricb hcre
" after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; >t Niagara; at
Pjcfque Isle; at Sanduflcy Lake, and on Sandufky
Rivar ; at Detroit; at Michiliniackinac ; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh ;at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hanailton ;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-JefTerfon; at Grenville; at
Picque Town and Loramics Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place below Fort
d Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Erie; at Fort
Steuben ; at Fort MafTac ; at any place from Fort Maffac
" to the south boundary of the United States on the river
Miffifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
' /If supplies (hall be required for any posts or places not
mentioned in this notice, all such supplies shall be fnr
l.ified at price* proportioned to those to be paid at the
polls Imfore r«cited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the Contiaelor.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the fol
lowing articles, vie.
One pound two ounces of bread »r flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half gill of rum, hrandy or whi&cy.
One quart and half a pint of felt."^
Two quarts of Vinegar, ( himd . cd rat ; Qns
1 wo pounds 01 ooap, I
One pound of Candles, j
The rations are to be furnifhed in fach quantities, as that
e rhere ihall at all times during the said term, be fuflicaeat
01 for the coufumptlon of the troops at Michiliniackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, fer the term of fix months in
u: advance, and at each of the other polls, for the term of
ly n lead three months in advance, in good and whtlefome
provisions, if the fame stall be required. It is to be un
fie derftoad, that the ContraAor is to be at the exfience and
or risk of iffuirg the supplies to the troops at each poll, and
that all lofTes sustained by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the treops of the United States, lhall be paid
3 for at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the depositions of two or more perfoßs of creditable cha
racters, and the certificate of a commiffioncd officer, as
certaining the circumstances of the loss, and the amount
of the ai tides for which aompenfatioM shall be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
/« order to (imply with contract, 1 will fell, for
approved bonds, on 3 equal annual payments, »
A Square of LOTS,
At the upper end of Fredericklburg, beginning op
polite to the lower corner of Do it or YVtllford's, oil
Caroline-ftrert, and running up 10 the craf* llreft
leading to Fitzhugh's ferry, and from thenoe hack to
Sophia-street. This square I have laid off into 24 lets,
27 and an half feet front, and 122 back, 12 on Cirn
llne-iireet, and 12 0n Sophia-street. Nine of tbofe
i>» I have leafed on an annual ground
rent of S atid 10 pounds, t«i the amount of 74 pounds,
and the vaeant lots a purthafer could enhance the value
of by building ftnall hoafeii, which will as readily
procure tenants as pots or goards will Martins in the
spring, and yield a greater profit in proportion to
their cofl than large buildings. Thof» who incline
to purchase may know the terms by applying to
HENRY FJTZHUGH.
Beli-Air, Dec. 8, 1796. 7thJ.d4w 4
Any Purs ON '
Who is well acquainted -with the River
MISSISIPPI, ' .
And will give Diredlions for failing into the fame,
that can be depended on, (hall be gensroufly reward
ed for his information, provided he will leave the
dire&i.ns with Mr. John Fenno, printer, Philadelphia,
or Edmund M. Blunt, Newburyport.
Pennsylvania Population Company.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that *n ele&ioa
for Officers for the ensuing year, will be held at the Com
pany's Office. No. 53, North Fourth-street, on V/cdnef
day the nth January next, at I a o'clock.
By Order ©f the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Secretary.
December 31. s. w. & w.
Wafliington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchafad or
exchangnd for prizes, at the Office, No* i47j Chefnut
ftreet, where a corraSt Numerical Book is kept for public
infpeclion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
changed for prites diawa in the Waihington Lottery, of
Which the 50th and 51ft days returns are received.
The Business of a Broier carried on as usual.
%* A SHARE in the NEW THEATRE to be fold
on reafonahle terms., December 29. ttstf
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South Fourth fired,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
and begs leave to folieit a continuance of tfteir favors.
He has on hand an extensive assortment of the
Mo/1 Fafoionablt GOODS,
And of the bed quality, flit abb: for the fenfoa.
At this fliop Gcntlemeo caw be furnifhed withthe|bsft
materials, and have them made up in the neatefc and most
Fashionable manner, and on the fhorieft notice. He wiii
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
pnn&oal attention, to thorn.
November 10. ws
City of Waihington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. IF,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 f THE
, FEDERAL CITY.
' A magnificent > jc,ooo dollars, & >
dwelling-hcwfe, ) ca(h 30,000, are )
l ditto 15,000 & cash 25,00s 40,008
' I ditto 15,000 & ca(h 15,000 30,000
1 ditto io,oeo & calh 10,000 20,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 io,ooa
I ditto 5,000 & ealh 5,00e 10,000
J I cash prize of lo,oo»
4 do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - to,ooo
t 20 do. 500 - - 10,000
s 00 do. 100 • • io,oo»
1 200 do. 50 10,000
400 do. 25 - 10,000
i I,coo do. 29 • 20,000
r 15,000 do. le - J5«,00®
i 16,739 Prizes.
1 Blank».
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollar., 400,006
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
. Tickets,-he prize of 40 ; 000 dollars will be the last draw*
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but onk :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
, any number not less than 30 tickets.
y This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of thepri
. vate buildings to be erected in the City ef Waihington—
,3 Two beautiful designs are already felefled for the entire
f fronts on two of the public squares ; from these prawings
h it ispropofed to eretil two centre and four corner buildings,
as foen as poffiblc after this lottery is fold, and to
it them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, is
y the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
_ A nctt deduition of five par cent, will be made (o defray
. the necefiary expenses of printing, the surplus
it will be madea part of the fund intended for theNationel
it University, to be elected within the city of Waihington.
•t The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
•t old off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty day*
ic aft<-t% is flnifhed; and any prizes for which fortunate
:r numbers are not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is closed, are to be con&dercd as given towards
,t the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
■_ the whole bufineb in a year from the ending of the draw
,e ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
n The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
ire held by the President a»d two Dire<slors of the Bank
|. of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount ot the lottery.
The twenty lour gentlemen who by appointment of
,/ the late Commifiioners assisted in the managemfcn; of the
Hotel Lottery are requeued to undertake thia arduous talk
a fecond'time on behalf ef the public ; a fufiicient num
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that »be
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
-15 jeflsmij continueto favor the design.
By accounts received from jhe dtfterent parts of the
it Continent as welt as from Europe, whore the tickets
it have been fsnt for sale, the public are allured that th«
E- drawing will speedily commcnic, and that the carc and
,0 caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafc disposal ui'
>f the tickets, has rendered the Ihor; fufp«nfios indif penlablt.
le SAMUEL BLODGET.
1- «§, Tickets ciay be had at the Bank of Colsmbia ;of
id James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Oilman, Bolton ;
id ql John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wellsf
jr Cooper's Ferry. eo
id /
>n ■
a _ ■ . —
f- PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. 119 —
CHESNU T-S T R E B T.
[Price Sight Dolkic« ptr Annum.)