1 of tlje tEnitetj States, AND Philadelphia Daily Advertiser*
NVMVEK 1496.J
For Sale,
The fine and remarkably fall
failing Schooner
l r ~' r s'' n ' a ""d Philadelphia
BurthenabcOt 100 tons. For term, apply to
' Rofs t3* Simfon.
Jime 11. dtf
For St. Thomas,
the ship
Ann and Mary,
t : "l}s Captain Bill is ;
' WILL fail in ten days. For
freight or passage apply to
F, COPPINGfifc.
No. 221, South Front JtreeU
June 9. diot
For Sal?,
The cargo of the brig Enterprise, Captain
Langdon from Bourdeaux, now landing at
Morton's wharf,
CONSITINC OF
j24 hhds. of Claret 2 •
21; cases ps ditto -a "y
100 cases of Sweet Oil -g
rio pipes London proof \ ~A ). n Y S <«
lo pipes of Holland ptoof ) w
Apply to
Wharton & Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
Said Brig,
WILL take a FREIGHT for !
the Weft-Indies or Europe, fails 1
f? lift, burthen about fifteen hun- i
barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a '
few days
Apply as above.
May 24 §
For Wilmington, North Carolina,
V—* The Sh ip
' Warren,
f Benjamin Church, Majltr,
WILL fail the 26th inft. For
freight or passage apply co the Captain on
board, or to
feffe & Robert Wain.
June 22. ' sti6
/. •-fy- FotFreight or Charter,
1 fame,
S FRANCIS KNOX, Matter:
A ftrong fc excellent velfe% has been just (heathed and
ready to receive a cargo. She will carry 2,000 bar
rels, ha j good accommodations so paffcngers.
Appjy to
Capt. Knox, or to
Kearny Wbarton.
June 6. •
HAY.
A Quantity of excellent Old and New Hay to
behadat Peel Hall Farm on the Wiffahickon
Road, about 2 miles from the City.
Also, A QUANTITY OF BUILDING STONE.
June 8 ' r r
FASHION AND CHEAPNESS.
INTELLIGENCE TO THE LADIES.
JUS"!;" rvccivcd trom London, two trunksof ele
gant BK UNSWICK KID Ladies" Shoes, of the
inolt lafhmnable rattcrns and shape now worn in
that city, ni.d will be fold ess imiuediatrly in (mall
quantiuc*, atfirftcoft, forcafh, at Mrs. ENEFER's,
No. 105 Walnut flreet, between Third and Fourth
fireeis.
• # * T*fce above was purchased of Mr. Fox, in
Piccadilly, who manufactures for mod of the nobi
lity, and will be warranted good.
June 1 J II 3 l
John Miller, jun. & Co
Kavc received per the India, Alhmead, from
Calcutta,
A well ojforted small Invoice %f
Gurrahs
Baftas
Coflaes
Calicoes
Bengal Stripes
Laid in remarkably low, which they will fell for
cash or short credit ou very advantageous terms.
June 5. dawfri4th
George Dobfon,
No. 25 South Third-Street,
HAS imported per ships William Penn, Starr,
and Diana, from London,
5-4 Super London Chints, tlegant patterns,
Ginghams, Muflinetts and Bimity'a.
Fathomable Waiftcoating, newest patterns.
Ribbands wtll assorted, in small trunks.
4-4 5-4 and 6-4 India and Britilh Book-mus
lins.
Fancy Cloaths and Caffamiers.l
The whole to be disposed of cheap for Calh
or approved Notes of a Ihorr date.
June 14, '97-
PUBLIC NOTICE
IS hereby given to those perfoni, holding notes
of the fubferiber, that he will renew the
fame, payable in fix years, with legal interest
fr e m the ' date hereof ; and that notes will be
given as above to all, who may have open ac
trotints legally authenticated.
TIMOTHY MOUNTFORD.
No. 294, S. Second Street.
Philadelphia, June to, 1797*
Millinery Room,
No. 136 Marketflreet.
MISS CHRYSTAL
TAKES an early opportunity of acquainting
her Friends that Ihe has received by the
WitLi*r« P£HK. a variety of NEW MIL
LINERY, &<"• which (he hopes to be able to
Ihew them in a few days.
May 18
Just Received,
From Bita»ia(»iaProvidence)
170 Saeksof Ja»a Coffee of trft quality
. 20c half sacks do. do.
A few Box.s of Spices, coofifling of
Nutmegs, Cloves a«d Mace
For lale l>y
WILLINCS& FRANCIS,
Penn»flr«tt.
Kay 30 ' tf
PHILADELPHIA:
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRaT & id prtof,
Gin, of 4th proof, is pipvs
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different lize?
Hazlenuts, in farki
Whiting >
wfiX.d { <"«*>'
4c Spanifl) Brown J
For Sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
Fanuary 4 6.
Rofs Sc Simfon,
Have for Sale>
A QUANTITY OF PRIME
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lilbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Calks
A few Quarter Chests best
FrefliHyTonandl T£AS
Hyson Skin )
Muftovado Sugars in Hogfhcads, and
Col Tee in Tierces
March j. ||rf •
C. E. Whitlock,
DENTIST,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gen
tlemeri of Philadelphia and its vicinity, that he
continues to perform all operations on the Teeth ;
plies the deficiencies of nature with artificial or real
» treth, in all the various modes of CJea.is,
• files, regulates, e*tra£la, and fills decayed teeth with
gold or lead, See. &c. He waits upon Ladies and
1 Gentlemen at their houses, and will be happy to re*
ceive their commands by note, at Mrs. Finch's, No.
68 north Eighth flreet, or at his house. next to the
Black Horse Tavern, on the Frankford road.
Dollars.
Scaling and cleaning ,
Artificial teeth, with enamel,*pcr tooth, 5
Do. in gold sockets or screws 7
Natural eeth with ligature* 7
Do. on gold or ivory fpekets, or gold screws 10
, Filing and cutfing away decay—each decay 1
Filling with goid 2
Do. with lead 1
1 Eotra&ingfto the families who employ him
as dentifl) 1
Do. where not employed t
Tooth powder of his own preparing l
Brtifhes, best London manufacture 2J cents.
Regu'ating, See. according to the operation.
} %* C. Whitlock will fell the time of a Negro
Man ; —he is honest and sober, and has about 5 yeari
and a half to serve. Enquire as above.
June 15 §3tthtf
1 Printed Calicoes.
• JOHN MILLER, Jug. & Co.
Mo. 8 Chefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly assorted, very low on
short credit.
March 6. §
To be .Sold,
d A large and convenient
3 Three Story Brick House;
SITU >TE at the north-east corner of Arch and.
Fourth-streets. It contains eighteen rooms—
». and is in every refpe<st well finifhed. For particu
lars enquire of
M. Keppele,
No. 138, Chefnut-ftreet.
" May 31. §
n Erfkine's View of the War.
" JUST PUBLISHED,
£ By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second street,(
n [Price 31 Cents]
- A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the prefer# War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskini.
> May 15 §
WALKER S? KENNEDY,
No. 73, South Front Street,
Have for Sale,
Virginia Tobacco, of thi)Richmond inspec
tion
350 bbls. Virginia' Flour and|Middling3
500 bulhels Wheat
ir 5 calks Ginfang.
ALSO,
Three cases Rouens Linens, entitled to the
drawback
aoo pieces Bandannoes, and ,
100 cadies India Sewing Silk.
j June 15. thiwjt
Grattan and Comp.
TJ Efpe&fully inform their friends, that they have
XV. imported from London per the ihip Star, a
large afTortmeat of
, PERFUMERY,
Which isnowopened for sale at their Hvufe,Na.
191 Market-street.
. Also, a new affottnient of ready-made gentle
" men's linen, Ihirts from 1 dollars each to 8 dollars,
&c. &c. &s.
Ladies and gentlemen are accommodated with
board and lodging a: ten Dollars each.
es Those Gentlemen who have their own private
lodgings, may be accommodated with dinner only,
by the week or month. >
b e J» De J
c - To be fold,
The time of a stout hearty young NEGRO MAN,
who has upward) of four year, to serve. Enquire
at No. 25, Dock-street.
June IJ. d2w
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the City—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
n g Fiom Bby 6 to 19 by 14,
By the (ingle Box xst Quaint i'.y, may be had at the
Y S ore of the Subscribers, coiner of Arch and Front*
ftrect.
fames C. tsf Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, June 9, 1797. \ 1 wmwftf
For lale,
A pair of very hanrtjome
liay Horses,
Near fiitcen hands high; well broke, and per
fectly gentle. Enquire at Mr. Kelfon'i Italics,
Chufch-alley.
Also, for .Sale,
A Chariot and plated Harness.
June 13.
By John Fenno, N O, 119 Chefnut Street.
PIANO FORTE.
LONGMAN £s* BRODERIP'j
ROYAL patent Piano Forte with a green
board, an excellent toned instrument. For
sale at' Mr. Salters, No. 56, S. Fourth Street.
June to. diw.
A New Work.
M PROPOSALS
For printing and publishing, by fubfeription, The
History of Pennsylvania,
IN North-America, from the original institution and
of that province, under the fiHl propri
etor and governor, William Penn» in i6Bt, 'till
after the year 174 a; with
AN INTRODUCTION.
Refpefting the Lifc«of W.PENN,
Prior to |bc grant of that Province, and the reli
gious Society of the people called Quakers; with the
FIRST RISE of the NEIGHBORING COLONIES,
marc particularly of WES'T-NE\V-JKRSEY, and the
Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDES, o« DEL A.
WARE.
To which
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE.
And of the general (late, in which it flourifhed,
principally between ihe years 1760 ipd I 770. The
whole including a varietv of things, ufeful and in
teresting to be kndwn, refpe&ing country in early
time, See. With an appendix.
Writtca principally between the year* «776 > and 1780,
By Rcbbrt Proud.
11 Pukfiriim eft bcncjaurt reipublkd, etiam bcncdicere
haud arjutdvm fjl t vel pace vel btllo clarum fieri licet**
£al. Catalin.
44 StJ cum fieri que arbitrentur ret b Micas majores efe
duam urbanas, mi nu en da til hate opinio."
Cic. Off.
(Entered according to law.)
tc WILLIAM PENN. the great legislator of the
Quakers, (in Pennfylvmia) had the'fuccefs of a con
queror, in eftablffhing and defending his colony, a
mong savage tribes, without ever drawing the sword ;
the goodness of the most benevolent rulers, in trea
ting his fubie&s as his own children ; and tlfe tender
ness of an universal father, who •pened his arms to
all mankind without diftin&ion ot sett or party. In
his Republic it was not his religious creed, but per
sonal merit, that entitled every member of society to
the prote&ioa and emolument of the State*"
EJfay on Toleration, by' Arthur Q*Leary.
. CONDITIONS.
I. This work will be printed in two o£lavo vol
umes, neatly bound and lettered, both in Iheep and
calf, for the choice of the fubferibers; on paper simi
lar to that of the conditions, as publilhed in the Sub/crip
tionpapers.
11. The head of William Penn, handsomely en
graved, will be prefixed to the firfl, and a map or
(ketch of Pennsylvania, and the pans adjacent, to the
second volume.
Hl* The price to fubferibers will be four dollars
and an half infheep, and five dolla's in calf; —one
dollar to be paid at the time of fubfeiibing, two dol
lars on the delivery of the firft{\rolihne, and the re
mainder on the dtlivery of the second.
IV. When one thousand copies are fubferibed
for, the work will be dui to press anl finifhed with
all convenient expedition.
Subscriptions will be received by Zachaiiah Poui
jun. Printer, No, 80, Ghefuut-lreet, and at the
Philadelphia Library in Fifth-ftieef; by Isaac Col
lin*. Prii»t«r, end Jofcph James, Merchant, New
ark; by John P. Pleafantsand George W. Field,
Merchants. Baltimore; and by other per foot both
in town and country*
February! 8. tu<3cf
Advertisement.
PURSUANT ta an Order from the Orphans' Court,
will absolutely be fold at PUBLIC SALE, at
Cranberry, on lVednefday x tbe tsd day of Augujl next, at
II 9clock, A all that valuable RE AL ESTATEy
late belonging to tie Rev. Gilbert T. Snowden, deuifcd,
lying in and near Cranberry, iu the county tf Middle
toivnjhip of South Brunpwicl, Rate of A T etv Jersey, up
on tbeloiver fiage road leading from Philadelphia to Neiv
Tori. A very elegant framehaufe in a beautiful' and
healthy situation, painted white, roith Venetian window
flutters j thirty feet front and thirty eight feet deep, two
rooms with a handsome hall or entry on the firfl floor,
three rooms on the feevnd floor and two weli-fnifhid gar
rets. In the rear of the house is an excellent two-Jiory
building 37 feet by 19, confining of a dining-room fir
work people, spacious pantries and a large kitchen, with
every convenience, and over these are three chambers for
J'srvants. To the right is an additional building 18 fiet
front by 19 feet deep, confijiing of a chamber below and a
library above—under, the whole are very fine cellars paved
with brick and conveniently partitioned. The house is en
tirely new, built in a modern Jlyle % and completely and e
legantly finifhed. Every room is hung with bells thai
lead both to the kitchen and the servants' apartments: there
is a pump of good water in the yard; and a flone and
brick pavement round the whole house, which is enclos
ed with a handsome railing, with three gates in front.
The farm conjtjls of one hundred and sixty seven acres
with a proportion of woodland and meadow, under excel
lent fence ; a garden with pale fence ; a large barn, sta
bles, carriage-house, cow-houses, life* all new, and built
in the lejl manner : with two Orchards, one of 60 full
grown trees, the other is young and thriving, confining of
200 befl grafted fruit treks.
Nearly adjoining said farm is a lot of Woodland,
x of the befl quality, containing 37 acres* Also a trail of
land within seven miles of Cranberry, and I of the Cross
Koadt, containing one hundred and fifty acres, three-fourths
meadow and the refi excellent timber.
This Trait will be fold in lots on Thursday, tbe 24th
day of Augufi following, at II o'clock, A M, on tic
prem fes if tbe weather permits, if not at the house of
3Mr. IVit her ill, Cross Roads.
f For further particulars enquire of Nathaniel Hunt,efq.
Cranberry, of Air. ifaac Snowden,jun. No. 141 South
Second Street, Philadelphia, or of Mr' Charles Snowden
Toniine Coffee-Houfe, New Tori, qr if the fubferibers.
ISAAC SNolVDEN,Princeton *> AJ - }flrDters
JACOB FISHER, Cranberry ] Ad <*
N. B. Phe sale of tbe above property was aavrrtized
for tbe 14th inji. but tbe Adminiflrators were not able to
get the two separate Trails laid out into Lots, and ether
matters arranged, on account of tbe indifpo/ition tf one of
them, it was therefore adjourned to tbe days above mention
ed. §6tmwf r .f June 19*
Great Philoiophical & Mechanical
Experiments,
To be executed on every Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday,at eight o'clock in the Evening, at Mr.
M'Dougallt Dancing Room in fourth llreet, be
tween Che&iut and Walnut itrects.
The force of Hercules is surpassed by artificial
Men. ' 1
The perfection of natural philoiophy by an arti
ficial Lady.
This adroit and graceful Lady, will commence
her philosophic experiments by firing the cannon of
Volta.
She will melt metal by her fiery breath after
wards direA the eledric fire on a small House, and
destroy it.
She will blow out of her m«uth flalhes of fire
representing flaming stars, and finally conclude
the experiment by surprising feats, by a single
piftolfhot, (be will kill a bird perehing iu front of
the theatre.
June 19. ecd'jt.
SATURDAY EVENING, JUFE 24, 1797.
The Commillioncrs
FJR carrying inta effeit the TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Frictilfhip, Limits,
and Navigation, between Hij Catholic M jefty
and the United States of America, hereby give in
formation to all Persons therein soncijrned,—That,
in order to terminate all differences, on account of
the losses fuflained by the Citizens of the United
States, in consequence of their Vessels and Car
goes having b-tn taken by the Subjedls of His Cath
olic Majesty, during the late War between Spain
and prance, that they are ready to receive (at their
Office, between the hours of ten and one o'clock,
daily) "all complaints and applications, authorized
by the said Aiticle, during Eighteen MomTuS,
Iron the day ol' the date hereof, and that they have
power to examine all such persons as some before
them, jnoa,th or affirmation, touching the com
plaints in que ft ion, and also to receive in evidence,
all written taftimony, authenticated in such man
ner as they shall think proper to require or admit.
By Order if the Commiflioncrs,
PETER LOHRA,
x Secretary.
C mmi/Jionrrs Office, As. 109, Mulberry
reet, Philadelphia, May i-th,- 1797.
20—64W
"COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpeft, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
she has received during four years residence in
Philadelphia; and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, Ihe has made a fupenor arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attinded to by Mrs.
Groombridge and mafteri excelling in their
refpeilive profelHors.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Street*.
June sth, 1797. fimftf
The fituatinn is perfeiflly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
For Sale,
At the Office of the Gazette of the United
States, No. 119, Chefnut-ftreet,
The lafi Report of the late Secretary
of the Treasury; bftng a brief hiftqry of the
state of financial concerns of the United States.
The Proceedings of the Executive
of the United States refpedting the western in
furreilion : Containing many faiSts and cir
cumflances no where else to be found. 50
cents.
The Letter of Mr. Pickering to
ourminifter in France. 37i-icents.
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States for the year
J795-
A few copies of the vohime for 1794 may be
had to complete setts.
D'lvernois' account of the Revo
lution in Geneva, 12 1-2 cents.
'Houflioid Furniture.
NOW felling by private lale, No. I 7 Dock
ftreet —confiftingoi chairs, tables, looking
glaffes, bureaus, hand and fire irons, bedftcads,
feather-beds, carpets, bedding, window curtains,
bed and table lmen, kitchen furniture, &c. The
whole in good order, and has only been a few
months in use.
The sale to continue daily 'till the whole is fold.
June 2 §
Valuable Public Document.
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale
At the Office of tl»e Editor ofthe Gazette of the
United States,
No 119 C*he!nut-Street^
[price one collar and fifty cents]
A FF.W COPIES OF THE
Receipts and Expenditures
OF THE UNITED STATES,
For the Year 1795* —
Being the Latest Peiiod to which an account
can be made up.
February ai. 5-
Maurice Moynihan,
No. 81, Ncrth Secondfired,
A few doors above Arch-flreet,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
for wholesale or retail, on the lowed terms, a
geneiid assortment of Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
tumblers, plain and flowered quart, pint, half pint,
gill and half gill do. exaift measures, decanters and
wine glasses ; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint
bowls, and chi"a in sets and separate -, pocket
bottles: Schuyikill and Jersey Country quart and
half gallon bottles ; Dry Goods, &c. &c.
N. B. Crates put up with care at the fliortell no
tice.
May XI. dtf
The Subscriber,
Determined to retire from bufinef3, invites all
who have anv note, bill, bond or acceptance
«#his, now. due, to call for payment ; and those
who wi(h to anticipate may receive the money
at a reasonable difcouut.
JAMES SWAN.
May 22. d2w.
Dorchester, ncarßaftoa, ifith May 1797.
Nathaniel Lewis & Son,
Have for sale at their Jlore, No. 70, adjoining
George Latimer & Son, Pine-flreet Wharf,
A Quantity ot
Madeira Wines
In pipe? and half pipes
adeira Walnuts and Citron, lately imported
in the schooner Sincerity, Capt. Copia
Mfi,
25 Puncheons, second and third proof, /fell-
India Rum, and a few Pipe, of Brandy
They have constantly on hand and for sale,
French Burr and Coun'rv Mill Stenn of various
Ozes, and a general assortment of Boulliuv Cloth ol
the best quality, both American and Foriign ma
nufacture. The former having proved, from fe
veral years ex)H ricnce of a number of millcrt in
different parts of the United States at lead equal,
and in many instances superior to the European
Cloths, we hope the manufacturer, Robert Daw
fan, will meet with liberal encouragement in this
important and ufeful undertaking. He has obtain
ed a patent and exehifive right of making and
vending limiting Ckth on his improved plan for s
number ol years, and they are lold only by him
felf in l.aneafter, ftite of Penttfylvatiia, and by
the fubferihers jn Philadelphia.
June 14
CINCINNATI.
Members sf this State Society are htre
by ncti-ned, rhftt their anfliverfary mceliitjj
for thepurpofr of electing officers of the wye,r
ty, and tranfasing filch other business as mjy
comebefore them, will beheld onrhejjti l ty
of July next, in the State:Houfe, at to o'clock
in the morning The pun£lua( attendance of
the members is requested, a* a quortin d.d not
attend at liie last anniversary. inerting—Alter
the bufmefs is fiailhed, the Sbciety will atiiourrl
to O'EUcrs Hotel, in order to celebrate the nfrtft
day ef ,our freedom and independence;' The
dinner will be ou the table at half pzfl threfl
o'clack.
The members of the other States Societies of
the Cincinnati and the officers of the American
army, who may be in this city on thit day, are
particularly invited to join this St.!te Society in
commemoration of the dav.
fl) order of the (landing committee.
R. PORTtR, Secretary.
June 'qui. >-79.7. •
GABRIEL DECOMBAZ,
BOOKSELLER STATIONER,
Fegi leave to inform the public that he has rei
moved bis Shop to Ao. 31, South ThirdJire:t,
ANP HAS JUST PUBLISHED,
(Neatly iotJidand lettered, priceidols. 25 cts.J
Ibe Adventures of Telemachua
French and Fmglifli, a vols. urao.
AMONG the books which daily fall into tlie
hands of the yofith of both sexes, none
have a higher claim to their attention than Tele
machus. The raid interefiing leflons are hctiC
conveyed in the vehicle of an interefiing Pccm.
replete with the fmeft touches of the true pa
thttic, and embelifhpd with all the graces of a
beautiful flyle. The fatal effects of indulging
the passions are exemplified in the most finking
mam.tr ; and the happiness attending inno
cence and virtue painted in the livclieft colours*
Whatever can incite to virtue or deter from
vice ; whatever can enlighten the underfland
ing, charm tire imagination, and improve the
heart, is to be found in this interefiing work.
THE NAVAL~GAZE r PTEER;
Being a complete Geographical Diftionary,
containing a full and accurate account, alpha'
betically arranged, of all the countries and ifl« ,
auds in the known world ; Ihowing their lati'
ude, foundings, and stations for anchorage ;
with a particular description of the feveralßays,
Capes, Channels, Coves, Creeks, Currents*
Gulfs, Harbours, Havens, Lakes, Oceans, Ra«
ces, Rivers, Roads, Recks, Sands, Shoals,
Sounds, Strait 6, Tides, Variation of the Com
pass &c. Together with a particular relation
of the shape and appearance at sea, of the fev«-
ral Headlands, Isthmuses, Peninsulas, Points,
Fromontories, and whatever is of tjfe t>r impor
tance to the Master, Pilot, Commander, or
Seaman of any Ihip or veflel, in navigating the
watery element.
Also Comprehending
Ample Directions for failing into or out of the
different Ports, Straits, and Harbours of the
four quarters of the world ; and for avoiding
dangers on thtf various and extended coafis ; in
which more than twelvethou&nd diftinil names
of places, are treated of and explained. With
a ccrrre<sl set of Charts, 1 vols. Svo. price 6 dols.
By the Rev. JOHN MALHAM,
■£? This has been pronounced the most use«
ful and the theapeft book publiihed in America.
June ti. dtf.
\ WILLIAM SANSOM,
HAS removed his Counting house to No. 96
Arch Street.
He has remaining on hand of the Cargo of the
Ship Pigou,
from Canton,
A few Bales long Nankeens
ditto {hurt ditto i
A few Chests Imperial Tea
<Jitto Young Hyson ditto
Which will be fold Chimp on a liberal Credit,
in order to close the files.
June 19 d 3t.
The Shareholders
OF the Pennsylvania Population Company,
are requested to meet at the Company's
Office, No. 53, North Fourth Street, on
Thursday the 29th instant, at 12 o'clock.
By order of the BoJrd.
Solomon Marache, Sec'ry.
June 19. dt29th.
Now Landing,
j4t Pratt* s wharf
FROM on board the ship Themas Chalkley,
Capt. Rafer, from Bourdeaux,
CLARET in calks
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
Red Sk'ms in boxe3
For Sale by
Rundle Is? Leech.
May n $
1 his Day is Published,
BY Mess. Dob Ton, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
other Bookfellcrs,
rice One. Dollar anH twenty-five cents,
Elegant 'y printed on Hove paper, and Hot*
prejfed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIJEWOF
The Constitutions
Of the several Slates with each other, and witlt
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Confritution, and
cltfling together their most important provisions,
under the several heads of admigiftration ; witk
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congrcfs of
United States.
Dedicated to the People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
r, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
February 6 mwf
Received by the Indoftan,
From Madras,
A SMALL invoice confiding ot the follswinj
- Coalt Goods, viz.
Blue Cloths
Lang Cloths, 14 punjums
Do. Jo, firie
Ma drift Handkerchiefs, »n«J
Book Muilins
WILLING W FRANCIS.
March»?.
[Volume. XI.To be Sold by AuftloA>
At die Coffee Houfs «n TliUiHay E«niiig, June
15th, it S clock, the following Lots of ground,
situate on Sixth Street, eppofite to the State
House Garden 1 viz.
fcox I. Beginning at the South Eafl cotntr of
George and Sixth Streets, 11 feet wide and 13
deep.
*, adjoining lot t, 10 ff et wile, 136 deep.
3, adjoining lot », 19 feet wide,'l3ofeet de'p.
4, adjoining lot 3, 19.feet wide, 130 feet oecp.
3, adj-iningfhj fuuth fide of the IcganiaD library,
*3 feet wide, 130 feet deep,
Tin ft lots are bounded on thewcflward !>y the
30 feet alley that runs from George to Walnut
ilteet, of which alley they have the privilege •
Conditions of sale, one fciitth calh, the remain
der In approved octcs at a 4. and 6 months, with
interaft.
Footman fc Co. Au£tr».
Juhe »j.
... The Commilfioners
carrying into effect thd filth article of, the ;
treaty of amity,commerce and navigation, etui- 1
eluded between his Britannic majesty and rheU r. ited j
Stata of en the 19th day of November, |
1794, having this day cotiftituted their Eoard, '
fiurfuant and agreeably to the said treaty, do here
by give notice, that they are ready to proceed to
bufineft accordingly ; and they delira that all claims
under the said article (whichTo far astlie fa ue de
fuses the Gife* thpr.eby provided for, is hereunto
EiinexeS) may be tslftj&d with their Secretary witli
our delay.
They further desire that all ftioli claims may not
only state in what manner the several cases come
w)thin the description of the said ,-rticle, but also'
Specially set forth .he nature of the evidence by
which the claimants rSfpeAivcly undertake to full
ftaritiaJc the fame.
ExtraA from the said article,
" Whereas it is alledgcd by divers Britilh mer
« chants, and others his majeftv'a fubjefis, that
" debts to a confid rablo amount, which Were bona
« fide COB traded, .before the peace, still r.jaain
owing to them by or inhabitants of the
" United States 3 and that by the operation of va
" rions fawful impedinvnts, since the peace, nqt
" only the still recovery of the said debts ha-, been
" delayed, but also the value and fecurrty thereof
"•« have been in several instances 'impaired and less
" ened, so that by the ordinary, course of judicial
' " proceedings, the Britifll creditors cannot now
" obtain and actually have and receive full and
*' ade<jua*e compensation for the lolT 'sanrf dama
" ges which tney have thereby ful ained: It is a
" greed that in all such cases where full comffenfa- j
.« tidn for such losses and damages cannot for what- j
" ever jqafon be a£tu ily obtained, had and recei-;
" ved by the said. creditors in the ordinary couif.i j
of justice, the United States will make full and
".complete compensation for the fame to the said
«' creditors: but it is diftin&ly understood, that
'• this proviflon is to extend to such losses only as
" have' been occasioned by the lawful impediments
" afore laid, and is not to extend to losses occasion
" ed by such infolvcncy of the debtors or other
" causes, as would equally have operated to pro
" duce such loss, if the said impediments had not
" existed ; nor to such losses or damages as have
" been occasioned by the manileft delay, ornegli-
or wilful ornifiion of the claimant.'*
By order of the Board,
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secretary.
Philadelphia, CotnmifScficrs' Office,
No. 3 south Sixth-street, May 29,
1797. J 6—Jim
having been appointed by
.L the Envoy Extraordinary and Miniiler Pleni
potentiary of his Britannic Majefly, General Agent
(or adding Brilifh creditors, and such particular a
gei.is as they may specially authorize, in prqfecming
their cUims before the csromiffiobers for carrying in
to effrft tic (jxlh. article of the fr/ty if Amity; Com
mcru ani Navigation ietviun his Britannic itajtfy and
If, 1 United States of America, hereby gives nonce that
tv has opened his offi e at his house the-fouth fall
cormr us Chcfnut and fiith ft'eets, Philadelphia,
<Aihtre he is ready to receive all claims or inftiuftions
for daima with the vouchers aud documents thcreol,
for the purpole of bringing forward the fame agrec
ablv so the rules and orders -which-the board may
think proper to prelcribe.
And as it will be for the interest of all concerned,
■ hat the several claims be so Gated, and fupport
cd, as to ptsvent the delay which would arile ftom
the oec;ffuy of obtaining further inlormation, or ad
ditional materials,ftom periods rcfiding at a dil'.ance,
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the
direftion chiefly of thofc, who, not having rtrploy
ed particular agents, may leave the profecuuon of
their claims to his charge and management) that all
such claims ought in particular to set forth
ill. The proper defcrip.ion and fitnation of the
creditor or claimant, «nd original debtor, refpecl
ad. The date or nature of the original contract or
debt.
3d. Whep, in what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant wis prevented or impeded,
by the prqv'lion, operation or deleft of law, the
decisions and prsftice of courts, or rellraint of «xe
cution, Wu recovering payment of the dibt in
The loss and damage incurred or fuflained,
io confequsncs of such impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen from the infolveney, change of
fnuatioc, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from laple of time, or other causes impairing
the value and fecurityof the debt, wfcich would not
Have so operated if such impedimenta nad not existed.
And sth The grounds and reasons on
which the claimant ro.rifr.ains, in the terms of the
treaty, that " by the ordinary course of judicial pro
io'gs, the creditor cannot now obtain and aftually
have and receive full and adequate compensation" lor
the losses and damages so fultaiued. % ,
The general 'gent thinks it his duty further to lug
geft that the several chims ought to be accompanied
and supported by the affidavits of the claimant! duly
fwom and regularly attefled, both as to the exdleuce
•f the debts claimed, and such other ci-rcumftances
a»m«y be within their own knowledge refpethvely.
And wherever the claimants in Hating the nature 0!
their evidence (which mull in every instance be the
belt of which the cafe ia capable) have occasion to
refer to the testimony of wuneffes, it wHI be Proper
to apprise the general agent of the names and places
of refidenee of such witnetfesand the fatlsto be elka
tyifhed by their teSiinwy.
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June 8 h, 1797. d'o l
A Cow Stolen
FROM the owner at the comer of Ninth
and Arch streets. She is a deep red
fcrindle with fonie white, about ten years
old and very gentle. The person who fe
crctes her had befl. turn her 01*, as, if legal
evidence can be obtained, he may expeft a
rigorousprofecution. TWO DOLLARS
reward will be given to any person who will
deliver the Cow, or give such ivitleocc a
gzinil the person keeping ber, that he may
be convifted of the fadl. Apply at
No. 218, Akch Stmest.
June 9. tawjw
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for <ale by John Morton, N®. 116, South
Front ftrect,
Hyson -~) '
Hylon Skin ( rEAS 0
1 ourvg 1-rylon t
Imperial J
April 20. - *® t,C
'■ | 'CONG 'R E S S.'
1 HOUSE or REPBTESENTATIVES,
r May 31.
Delate oh Adorefs-, reported, in anfister to the
Pre/idcnt's Speech.
Mr. Dayton, (the Speaker) CaiJ that
the tedious length of debate and unprofitable
' waste of time which the ftrft amendment oc
casioned, had determined him to submit his
t proposition to the Committee and without
troubling them with any comments to leave
- it to it's fate. The criticism which it had
1 provoked from the gentleman from South
Carolina would have juftifted him in depart
ing from that determination, even if there
had been no other inducement, but as sever
al gentlemen had defired'a modification of
, his motion, he rose more Immediately gra-
J tify.them, as he found he could do it with
-1 ; out affefting the principle. / _
. I . Mr. Dayton here particularly pointed
' out the alteration which he consented to
j make in his amendment; -which being ac
, cordingly made and read by the Chairman,
Mr. Dayton said that he trufled that all
u parts of the house were imprefled with the
"' importance of their being unifetT at la time
t . and upon an occasion so critical, when the
e eyes of a corifiderable part of Lurope were
3 turned upon them, and when they had been
y informed that their AddrefTes to the Prefi
" 1 dent, far from pafling unnoticed, had pro
bably already influenced the conduftof some
- of the European powers towards the United
t States.
3 With this information before them,' he ho
-1 ped that gentlemen would not obstinately
I persist in maintaining their ground without
it yielding in the least to each other, and in
a refilling all advances towards accommodati-
; f on, especially when it appeared that their
, difference was confined to words, or at mofl,
„ to forms, and that in substance they were
J almost all agreed. From all parts of the
- committee a difppfition had been avowed to
~ place France on grounds as favourable as o
" i ther countries, and not awithhad been uttered
|]! to the contrary even by t!ie member from S.
! Carolina until yesterday. Believing himfelf
J that the United States were thus favorably
d disposed towards that Republic, and very
lt much preferred an honorableaccommodation
, to an unprofitable warfare with them, he had
1- thought it his duty to offer an amendment |
:r avowing such principles. He had before .
said and now repeated, that he was desirous
of maintaining peace, so long as it could
i. be effefted without the loss of independence,
or national dishonor. He trusted that he
should hot be charged with a want of zeal
in the cause, ifhe did not particularly an
swer the arguments and follow the footfteps
of those gentlemen who had taken it npon
themselves to arraign France like a culprit
. it their Bar, and to compel the committee
,y to fit; as it were, in judgment upon the
1- condutft, the motives and the designs of that
» Republic,.not in relation to the United
States whofe'interefts alone were confided to
t. the care of their Rcprefentatives, but in ref
> psft to the nations of Europe," who - had
'd 1)f-n leagued for her deftru£tion, and witll
" whose internal regulations and political con
\ rtexir.ris that Itoufe-had nothing to do. If
18 truth had permitted, decency, Mr. D, said,
I' fhouldhave forbidden the members to address
iy the nations of Europe, &to fay to one nation,
you are enjlaved ; to another, you are oppref
'> fed, and to a third, you are deceived, and
your monarch held in leading firings by the
I- French Repvifclic under the femb lance of
c > Friendship. Policy and decorum should e
'e qually have restrained gentlemen from such
if reflections at a time when Representatives
II from those very nations were received and
accredited as the Ministers of Nations, fov
£ ereign and independent as ourselves, and per
mitted not only to re'fide in our Metropolis, !
J r but to fit within their walls and listen to their
debates. If they were discussing the means
j) of maintaining the balance of Europe, and
ie were deliberating into* which scale theUni
e" ted States would throw themselves as make
10 weights, then indeed such obfervatious might
d, be more pertinent and juftifiable, but as the
le question really was, by what means the peace
of this country'jhould be honorably preferred,
,g he could not fee the propriety Of such rea
nt foiling. Mr. Dayton hoped he should not
be accufod of want of spirit, if he did not
assume the high tone of menace which some
0. gentlemen had done, if he did not talk of
!y war, as a mere matter of paflime, or of con
or quering whole provinces, as if they had only
to walk over and make them their own, or
-d of buckling on the armour of hostility, and
'y of dying in the lajl ditch. He had conceived
cc that this country might exhibit becoming
y firmnefs, w-itho'ut rushing into intemperance
of and that they might shew a proper spirit of
llc resentment without exhibiting the rage of a
' e ° madman. Fortunately for them, it was not
; es necessary that they should crouch as fuppli
ta- ants at the feet-of a mailer and hold out a
carte blanche, to have" inferibed on it the
terms of their fubmiflion and peace, nor' on
the other hand to assume the poftu're of Gla
diators and found the trumpet of defiance.
He neverrhelefs felt the full fotce of thein
th dignity which had been offered us in the re
e(j Jecrion of our miniiler, and he owiied that
rB he could not calmly hear the French Re
-e public addrefling the United States in terms
a l the mofl imperious and fayirig' " this law
1 a you mull thrfe decisions you mull
refcind, those engagements you mufl-annul
jjj before we can have further communion or
a _ intcrcourfe with you." Such language was
unwarrantable and iufulting. But a desire,
still if possible to conciliate, rather than to
make war,-and afenfeof gratitude, not yet
extinguished in his bread, induced him to
moderate ht£ indignation, although it did
not prevent his refilling such improper at
tempts to interfere in the Government.—
l '' The recolltfftion of what France had been
to us, in times the most critical, would in
cline him still to address her and to (ay,—
"You Frenchmen were our JirJl, yon have
been our bejl Ally. You alone came for
wards to our alßflance, at a time when that
country wlio called herfelf our motlier, .and ;
whom we had been pioud to acknowledge
as fuchj) not only threw us from her protec
tion bt>t endeavoured to reduce Us to uncon
ditional fubmiffipn. When every other na
tion fled from our alliance, and all other peo
ple avoided any intCrcourfe, treatihg us ra
ther as rebels than as men struggling for Our
just rights, then you, people of France, or
(jf gentlemen prefer it) your monarch,- —
strong in your flrength, rich in your wealth,
supported by your will, nobly held out a
helping hand for our protection, and ac
knowledged and granted our Indepfndeace.
Then wasfigned that compact which uni
ted your fate and interests with ours. But
if owing to change of circtimftances, that
treaty operates now to your injury, we will
no longer hold yon to its observance. That
which you generously gry.ted in 1778 as a
pledge of friendfhip, we as liberally restore
to you in 1797, when it is your opinion
unequal, and has become a source of dif-"
quet to you. We agree that it should be
cancelled. Our laws made for the preserva
tion of our neutrality and peace we. cannot
repeal, the deciiions of our courts we cannot
rescind, oUr engagements with foreign pow
ers we cannot violate, but vve freely consent
to cancel that compaft fublifting between
us, which prevents your participating in the
favors granted to Great-Britain in the treaty
of 1794. This obflacle removed,'the three
articles of Mr. Jay's treaty, viz. that of neu
tral ships not protecting enemy's property,
that regulating what ftiall be contraband,
and the provision article can be extended to
you."—This, Mr. Dayton said, was the
lapguage which he conceived to be most pro
per and dignified on the present occafiori.
He, however, refilled the conftru&ion which
had been put Upon the second article of the
treaty of 1778, and had been the pretext
for passing the decree of the 2d of March,
and by no means admitted that France
could- claim, those favors as a right. Altho'
he could never consent to repeal the aft of
Congress of 1794, nor to violate in the le'aft
our engagements and treaties with other na
• f _•
tions at the requisition of France, or any'
foreign power, becanfc the independence,
the honor and good faith of the U. States
forbade it ; yet he should rejoice to learn
that our government would think proper to
offer at the very commencement of the ne
gociation to annul the French treaty, in
! which their miniiter fays they find only dif
; advantages. This he believed would be
found to he the truefl policy also in refpeft
to all other nations whose treaties with us
' should, from change of circumstances, cease
to be equal and reciprocal. They would
otherwise be the sources of hostility rather
than of friendship and good neighbourhood.
The amendment which he offered to the
committee of the whole had expressed a hope
to that effeft, that the d'ifpofition" ( which
was not. questioned) in our government to
' place France on grounds as favorable
other gountrifs, joined to. a mutual spirit of
conciliation, vould prbdnce an accommoda
tion compatible with.otir engagements, rights,
honor and intCreib. If he had believed that
such a difpofitioo (lid not exist in this coun
try, or that the e*prefiion of a hope that it
would elfe£t an accommodation, could ,be
fairly tonftrued into an improper interfer
ence with this executive authority, he should
have been among the last" to advocate a mo
tion of such tendency, but\as on the contrary
it contained in it nothing dictatorial or im
perative, and as the speech of the President
invited them to give an opinion relatively to
the contemplated' negociation, he was per
suaded that it was not liable to any conftitu-
I tional objeCtitm, and that it might have a
conciliatory effeCt". After making these
general remarks, Mr. Dayton said it might
be proper to take some notice of the objec
tions of the gentleman from S. Carolina (Mr.
Smith) which were at confli& with each
other. He said " France -would be offended
at the propofalif that were true, then
agreeable to the doCtrine of his colleague
(Mr. Harper) it w;ould inspire them with
respect, for us: but he added also that
France would ;" laugh at the propofalthis
was indicative of contempt, and Mr. D. did
not fee how they could look upon it with
such opposite sensations at the fame time.
The fame gentleman went on to fay that
to place France on grounds as favorable as
other countries would be to put her on a
worse footing than she then flood, and yet
in almost the a?xt breath he declared, that
the reprefentaftves would betray the interdls
of their conflituents if thsy did not demand.
from that republic' some compensation in re
turn for granting them such favors. These
were inconfiftfcncies which the gentleman
mufl reconcile' hefore. he could be entitled
to a more particular answer. Mr. Dayton
then took notice of what had been urged
againfl his arnendment, as improperly dicta
ting to the Executive, and as a violation of
the conflitutiqn, and fliewed that it was nei
ther the one nor the other. He concluded
with faying that .such a sentiment mijAt
have an influence in preparing the way for
the favorabk reception of their negociators,
and prove the,harbinger of peace between
the two countries.
THURSDAY, JTfNE tl
f Concluded fropi jeJltrdafi Gazette )
Mr, Otis /lid not think that the objeft
of the mover of thisamendment would be ob
' tained by it, fjnee he believed vessels woufd
be as'much exjjofed todanger within aswith
out the jurifdiftion of the United States.
Hetrufled they should leave this business'
to the President ; for whatever personal ob
jections gentlemen might have to him (be
cause he was not the man of their choice) he
believed the people at large would be willing
he should have this power. Indeed he tho't
whatever it might display of candour in gen
tleman to fay they had no confidence in the
firfl officer of Government, it had very little
of discretion in it. It was to deflroy one of
the objefts of the fefiion, which was to (lie w
to the world that we were not a divided
p.op!e.
Mr. O. did hot fay that Congref* had not
a right to defiijnate the ot>je& of tins iorce ,
but he believed it would not be convenient ;
for, said he, suppose either of the Barbary
States were to declare war against us (and
they all knew there was no certain reliance
upon their observance of treaties) fhouid
not the President have a right to fend those
vessels into the Mediterranean ? Or suppose
we wanted to fend an AnibaUador to a for
eign country, or dispatches to our Minitler
reliding there, shall we, said he, limit his
power in this respeCt ?
He denied that the House had expressed
art opinion favorable to a limitation of the
employment df the frigates, by theit decisi
on upon the fubjeft of the gallies : The
equipment of the gallies was an extraordi
nary measure, intended for temporary exi
gencies.,-and as it was a new force placed in
the hands of the Executive, it might be
propel* to avow its deflinatiot), and thus
avoid the appearance of hoflile intentions,
But the frigates were'-an ordinary peace es
tablishment, provided long before our oon
troverfies with the French ; a law had pas
sed the lafl feftion for completingtheir equip
ment, in which no mention was made of t!»;
mode of employing them ; I n making pro
vision for manning and fending them to sea,
we exercised a right in the regular course of
legiflatioh, for which-we were not accounta
ble ; and if the amendment prevailed, he
thought three wooden towers would be
quite as ufeful as confidence.
It seemed to be the objeft of gentlemen,
Mr. O. said, to hang a dead weight upon
every measure, to prevent any thing effec
tual from being done, that an idea might go
abroad that the President had ealled them
together unnecessarily. If gentlemen could
succeed in this, .the people might adopt
their opinion, and believfe the President was
unworthy of their good opinion.
He thought when all the world was in
arms, and we did not know how soon we
might involved in the calamity, it behov
ed us to be upon our guard, and to give the
President such powers, as should enable him
to take proper measures of defence againfl
any attack that might be made upon us.
Mr. Macon thought every thing which
had been introduced about confidence, or
the want of it, in the President, was ex
tremely irrevelant and improper. For gen
tlemen to charge others with a want of con
fidence in the President, because they hap
pened to disagree in opinion, was extraordi
nary conduft. His reason for proposing the
present amendment, was to prevent these
vessels from being sent to the Mediterranean
or the Weft Indie*. He read an extraft
from the law in 1794, to shew that the ob
jeft of the frigates was there designated to
be against the Algerines. Hi 6 objeft wa3
now that they should be employed on the
coast, and no where else. If a provHien
of this kind was not agreed to, they knew,
from his speech, upon what business the
President would employ them. He had gi
ven his opinion to the House with candour,
and he wished the House to be equally ex
plicit.
Nr. GAttATiu observed it seemed to be
the opinion of the gentleman from Massa
chusetts, tbdt if they defined the objeft up
on which these vessels were to be employed,
they should be chargeable with difrefpeft to
the President. We have, or we have not
a right, said Mr. G. to define the objeft.—
if we have not the right, we ought not to
exercise it ; but if we have the right, there
could be no difrefpeft fhe>yn to the Ptefi
derit by an exercise of *hat right. It might,
be improper, but could not be difrefpeftful.
If once such an argument as this were ad
mitted, it would be introduced on every oc
cafiori vyhen it would have weight. Indeed
the gentleman saw that such an assertion was
likely to have its weight on this queflton,
and therefore introduced it. He wished to
know whether the clause from the Senate
' did not define the .objeft ; and if so, whe
ther that body could be charged with want
ing refpeft for the President i
objeft of the frigates had never
been defined, for a good reason ; because
they were never ordered to be manned till
now. The gentleman from S. Carolina had
said they were not to be used for any hoi
tile purposes whatever. He wished to know
how they were then to be employed ? He
thought they would be somewhat expensive
packet beats to carry dispatches abroad. He
knew only of two purposes for which they
could be used, viz. to be held in readiness
in cafe of war, and in the mean time to be
employed in some purpose, or other, which
he thought should be defined, and not left in
doubt. He therefore hoped the amendment
would be agreed to.
Mr. Dana said, admitting that they had
a rjght to define the objeft of this arma
ment, it was no reason why they should irt
fift upon exercising it. He agreed that
" they had the right. He had no ob
. jeftion to leaving.the.business to the Presi
dent, except that, if the vessels were em
ployed in convoying our commerce, he
■ should have wished to have shared the res
ponsibility With him. He denied.that the
, danger which had been predicted could arise
from the disputed. articles in thc_ French
treaty, as the President had a riglit to give
such inftru'Ctions to the commanders on that
fubjeft, as he saw proper.
Mr. W. Smith thought the propofitipn
■ vague, fincp it did- not fay the vessels should
1 -not be ufe'd in any other way. Gentlemen
- were begging the question, when they said,
• that if the business were left with the Pre
> (Ident, the consequenCe would be thai the
■ vessels would be employed as a convoy , iinee
he did not believe they were equal to that
' objeft. It was liis wifli that the hands of
; the Prefideiit should not be tied, and tho't
: it extremely imprudent at the present time
• to discover a want of confidence in the Ex
' ccutivei
Mr. Kitter A had often seen that House
attempt to take powers which did not be
' long to it. He thought this one of those
I cases. had power to raise an army
navy, but the use of them lay frith the
t President.'
Mr. S. Smith said they had beencalled
together, beeaufe the French had commit
ted depredations on our commerce, and re
fufed to-receive our Minifler. He took no
tice of the different a£ls which they had
pafl"ed this session, till, he came to this,—
which, .in his opinion, if our veflels went
out to lea, woUkd iead to war, and therefore
he wiHied to Invs them limited- .
Wbeivour Comijl Hi ixiraairive In France,
said Mr. S the Fren li Diteftory will aflc:
For urtat etc you aiming ? Y«ur Congref*
li<i» b?en - tailed together for the express
j/iitppfe ef taking rneifutts againll us,"
They .-would add, " Bifa-' m, or we will not
Meat.-A.iih yo«." He tfnlted tl.ry'diould nut
put it in ihe Power of any b*%«ch of govem
majt tp plupge us in wa». It had been said
Ky the-gentleman from S. Gaiulin'a.-tlvt we
were to force our way into the rebel ports jn
the Well-Indies ; if so wai mull.be thp con-'
1 iequence.
Mr. Broqkes was surprized to hear a gen
; tleifeari declaie that we were bru't to, ftich a
filuat ion that, we could not-taks up v arms itt
our own defence; without offending a foieiprt
nation. He was the more affefted- at tli*
declaration, beciufe it-came fiomao A merit a W
Soldier. "M. the gentlemen'
will fay to the commifftoners, 'Go home and
-lay down your arms.and vye will then treat
with vou." He hoped the gentleman would
retradt this humilia'i-'ig fetitirrxnt.
The.question was pnt negatived
to 44, The committee then role 1 and had
leave to fit again. Adjourned
The bill fer raifinga Provisional Army
had been rcjefled in the Senate, by a ma
jority of three votes.
Frid-ay, June 23.
A message from the Senate informed the
House, that they had passed a bill making a
detachment of the militia of the United
States ; and also a bill preventing the regis
tering of-.veffels taken by any foreign
and afterwards purchased into the United
States, except to the original owner, with
amendments. The amendments were taken
up and agreed to.
1 The House again went into a committee
of the whole, on the bill providing for the
prote&ion of the trjtdeof the United State,
when
" Mr. V"EN able renewed his motion to al
ter the lixth. fe£tion of the bill, so as to fix
the wages to be allowed to the petty officers,
midlhipmen, seamen, ordinary seamen, and
marines, instead of leaving it to the Presi
dent to fix them, on the ground of its be
ing legislative and not executive business.
This motion was opposed, from the cir
cumstances of wages being so fluftuating as
to make it impoiTible to fay now what would
be a proper rate of wages to be 'given when
the veflels were ready to receive <their men ;
and as the fufn was not to exceed fif
teen thousand dollars per month, rio mif
chief could arise from leaving the business
with the executive. -»*
Thfi question was put and negatived,. 48
t0 37* , '
' Mr. P-ARK-Eii moved to add two new fec
tipns to the bill ; the firft was " to autho
rize. the President of the United if
be deem it necessary, to enoreafe the strength
of the revenue cutters, fp as that the num
ber of men do not exceed to each in
order to defend4he sea-coast, and to repel
any hostile veflels, and to ptoteS the com
merce of the United States within the ju
rifdiftion thereof, having due regard to their
duty in the protettioiyjf the revenue."
The second feci ion provided, " That the
•additional compensation allowed to the men
employed in the revenue cutters, by an Aft
of May 6, 1796, should be extended to the
additional men proposed to be employed."
Mr. Nicholas wilhed, instead of the
words " if he deem it neceflary," in the
firft clause, to introduce those used 011 a for
mer occasion, when the gallies were under
consideration, aiz. " if c'ircurr.jlances Jhfill
hereafter arise, which, in his opinion, Jhall
render it expedient."
Mr. W. Smith saw, no difference be
twixt the two phrases, except that the one
prOposed was not so well expressed as the
priginal. He wilhed the gentleman to fay
in what the difference confilted.
Mr. Nicholas said, that by the words a»
they now flood, they referred to the Presi
dent what it was their duty to determine for
themselves. He wilhed to have an eye to
any future occasion which might arise ; but
if the clause passed as it now appeared, the
President might immediately go into the bu
siness:
Mr. Parker consented to adopt the
words of Mr. Nicholas.
Mr. S. Smith and Mr. Parker intro
duced two or three fmafl amendments,which
related to the number of lieutenants, fer
jeants, corporals, £cc. to be employed, which
were agreed to.
The bill having been gone through,
ftft. R. Williams proposed ta amend
the firft feftion of the bill, "by adding, after
empoweringthe President, ftiould he deem
it expedient, to cause tee frigates to be man
ned and employed, " provided they Jhall not
be empioyed as convoys."
Mr. Giles hoped this amendment would
be agreed to. He wilhed to define the ob
ject for which these veflels Ihould be employ
ed, that there might be n.o mifundprftmiding
on the fubjeit. ' Mr. G: infilled tliat the
French nation had a rig'it to enq *ire of our
tommiffioncrs for 'what we were arming ?
And if this amendment Were agreed to, it
would be a fufficient answer.
Mr. W. Smith fiid, if
were agreed to it mjcht go farther than it
was meant to go. frigates might not
be able to protest the trade of the. United
States «t {ill. He did not suppose they
would be employed in convoying our veflels
to the Weft-Indjes, ; but if this provision
passed, it would not be pofljble for them to*
protest our trade from the cape aof tha De
laware to the capes of Virginia.
Mr. S. differed in opinion from the gen
tleman lad up that the French nation had a
right to take umbrage at our arming. Whentvri nations were al peace, atvl one o; them i'
began to arm ( it wa> customary to tnquire'; ]
what was tlic objeft of it.; but when two , i
nations had disputes tq fettle,, and one of 1
ihi nations had committed v aggreffioris a- 1
gainst the other, it was'common for the in- i
j used nation to drm in her defence ; and, if I
the Frefich najtion refafed to treat with out' 1
commissioners, until they arifwered enqui- i
rie3 refpefting our arming, he believed they
were determined upon war. ,
Mr. S. Smith said, if he tinderftood the
amendment to go to the length which the
gentleman from S. Carolina represented it to
.go, he ihou'd Certainly be oppofefl to it ;
but he believed'it only Went to prevent the
frigates from being employed as convoys to
foreign ports. Merchants, he said, who ■'
eaft-ied on a fair course of trade, would not .
•&fk for tanvoys 5 they would wish to run the ■
risk and go alone—for if they Went under j
Convoy the probability would be, that from ■
a n>«nbcr of vessels failing together, they
■would glut arty market to which they might
go, and consequently lower the price of their
cargoes ; "but merchants who wished to go
Snto tefeel ports would wish to be convoyed,
md the firtl convoy that wertr on such a
business, be was confident, vyould produce
war.
Mr. S. jnftified the expression he made use
of yesterday, with refpeft to the French,
making enquiry into the cause of our arma
ment. Not that they could take any notice
of our fortificatiems, or our militia regula
tions 5 but when we are about to fit out a
naval armament, it was a different thing,
and the maritime powers of the world had a
right to enquire the cause of our arming.
Our commifiioners, when they were asked,
would fay they knew not. The French
would answer, " Enquire, if it be against
us, we (hall know what to do ; if not, let us
know."- To avoid this enquiry, he wished
to designate the objeft.
Mr. Venable said, from what fell from
the gentleman from S. Carolina, he supposed
he would be fatisfied with a small amend
ment. That gentleman supposed that the
present amendment would prevent the fri
gates from convoying our merchant vessels
from one part of the union to another. This
might be remedied, by adding, " to any fo
reign port or place"
Mr. R. Williams consented to make
this a part of his amendment.
Mr. Brookes wished to know whether
the frigates were to be prevented from tak
ing any vessels bound to a foreign port un
der convoy at all, though she might be go
ing out at the fame time with vessels; bound
to different parts of the union.
Mr. Potter hoped this amendment
would, obtain, as he did not believe these
vessels would be equal to the convoying of
onr commerce. He hoped, before,the ses
sion clbfed, they should pass an aft for arm
ing our merchantmen, which, he believed,
would be the best proteftioa that could be
given to our commerce.
The queflion was put and carried 47 to
Mr. CpiT moved an additional feftion,
** to confine the duration of this aft , for one
year, and from thence to the end of the next
session of Congress, and no longer."
Mr. Sitgreaves thought that the period
for which the seamen and marines were en
gaged, being only for one year, there needed
no other humiliation.
Mr. Coit was of a different opinion. It
was true the men could riot be engaged for
' a longer period than a year, but those en
gagements might i>e renewed from time to
time, tor his part he did not wish to fee a
permanent naval eftablifiiment in this coun
try ; he would rather fee the frigates at the
wharves than fee them go to sea. He trust
ed a majority of the House would one day
be of his opinion , and, if such a change of
sentiment should take place, he wished to
put it in their power to annul the establish
ment.
The question on this feftion was put, and
there appeared to be 46 votes for it, and 45
votes against ; when the chairman (Mr.
Dent) according to the power given him
by the rules of the House, declared the
question not carried.
The committee rose, and the house pro
ceeded to consider the amendments ; the firft
which came under consideration, was that
for confining the frigates from being used
as convoys.
Mr. Sitgreaves hoped this amendment
would not prevail. He was at a loss to ac
count for the change of sentiment *1 the
House sinCe yesterday ; he thought it was
then the opinion that they ought to provide
the force, and when provided, leave it to the
disposal of the Executive, and that if he
thought proper to employ the frigates in
the protection of our commtrce beyond the
jurifdiftion line, he should be authorized to
do so. He yet entertained this opinion.
It Was a little extraordinary, be said, that
those gentlemen who had, on a former Joc
cafion, quoted the articles of the armed
iteutrallty, should forget one of the moll
important, he meant that which fanftioned
tht right of convoying their trade in time of
peace, to protest tbeir ueutrality against the
aggressions of belligerent powers, which
doftrin'e had, by a solemn aft of her gov
ernment been aequiefced in by France.—
This being k the cafe, and feeing that the
President of the United States, in his speech
at the opening of the session, had declared
his opinion, tjiat vessels ought to be provi
ded as a convoy to our commerce, and
knowing no principle in the law of nations
to the contrary, he was surprised the right
should be called in question. He hoped no
aft of that House would juftify such a sen
timent.
Another glaring inconsistency. Gentle
men admitted that the frigates were to be
employed for the proteftion and defence of
our commerce ; but he asked how' this
aould be effefted, if they were not to be
employed in the way of convoys ? He dia
ftot mean for a number of ships together,
but for fmgle vessels. But it was said that
citizens who carried on an hon'ell trade, —
•Would Aot afira convoy. How did this a*i
pesr ? H?d no attack. be;n made upon the
fair commerce of this country ? If there
had been none such, he would allow that
there Was no necessity for a convoy or naval
force ; but, if therf had been aggressions,
they must hafre been upbfl the fair trade of
this country, and persons emp'.Tysd in this
trade, were entitlea to proteftion.
Why, he asked, were they always told <jf
our commerce-being forced into the rebel
pori's in the Weft Indies, and that war
would be the consequence ? Were it to be
supposed that the President would Wantonly
go into this business ? hoped they
should do what the circumstances of the
country required, and not profufely lavish
money which could ar.fwer no good purpose,
since -the injuries committed within ourju
risdiftion compared to those sustained upon
the high seas, were not worthy .of being
named. If any proteftion was given there
fore, it should be extended beyond the jurif
diftion line.
But it vvas said three frigates were incom
petent to the proteftion of the trade of the
United States [ but they might be compe
tent to protest a part of it; and if three
frigates were not effeftual, Was the duty
of that House to provide such as would be
effeftual. But if this force -would not be
able to meet the naval power of any Euro
pean country, it would be able to keep off
privateers and picaroons, and therefore be
of some service.
Mr. M' Dowell said, that if the gentle
man last up had beed present when the fub
jeft had before been under discussion, he
would have spared his observations, as the
principle 01 a convoy had been decided a
gainftby a large -majority. Mr. M'D. went
over the arguments which had been several
times repeated against the employing of con
voys, and concluded with hoping the mo
j tion would pass.
Mr. Sitgreaves acknowledged he was
absent when the fubjeft of the gallies was
under discussion ; but he had been told that
principle had not been decided ; but, sup
pose it had, his opinion was not to be influ
enced by a majority of that House, if he
were convinced it was well founded.
Mr.Giles said, heretofore gentlemen had
given up the idea of employing these vessels
as a convoy, from their incompetency to
that objeft'; but now, the gentleman last up
came forward, and said if they were not
used for that purpose, they would be of no
service at all. He allowed with the gentle
man that we had a right thus to employ
them, but he denied that it was.expedient
to do so. The President had committed
himfelf on this, head, and he thought they
ougflt to give him an opportunity of re
trafting his opinion, by fixing the objeft to
which the vessels should be employed.
Mr. Swanwick said, he felt himfelf call
ed upon to give his reasons for voting against
employing these frigates as a convoy to our
trade. HeJooked upon the force as wholly
inadequate. But it was said it might be
brought t6 operate in part. He was, how
ever, afraid, that in attempting an objeft to
which they were not equal, they might, in
the Weft-India seas, endanger the loss of the
vessels themselves ; for, when the privateers
a nd cruisers in those seas, learnt that we had
frigates out, they would become more acri
monious than ever.
Mr. S. said, it could not be supposed that
the present war in Europe would be of long
duration, nor could it be expefted that we
should be competent, whilst ~it lasted, to
give complete proteftion to our commerce ;
he thought, therefore, it would be much
better to trust entirely to insurance, than to
risk these vessels as a convoy. And if the
trade was not worth carrying on, after hav
ing paid the insurance, he would give it up.
He wished to avoid any measure which might I
lead to war; for if that were to take place,
we should fuffer infinitely more than we now
fuffered from any depredations committed
on our commerce. Our trade in the Weft-
Indies, he said, was in some degree protect
ed by the rival interests of the contending
powers in those seas. They had heard (&
he owned that it was with no pleasant sen
sation he heard it) that our vessels had fail
ed under British convoys in that quarter, so
that the trade, in some degree, protested
itfelf, by the interest which it holds out to
the parties. If the frigates were to' be em
ployed as convoys, he did not believe the
ratesofinfurancewouldat all be lowered ; for
hedidnot find .that even the Britifh,with all
the force they had in the Weft-Indies, could
effeftually protest their merchant vessels
against the French privateers. Besides, he
should look upon the loss of one of the fri
gates as a very unfortunate occurrence ; it
would cast a damp opon the germ.of our ni
vy, and would be a discouragement, to the
voting of any more money for that objeft.
This he should most sensibly regret. The
frigates might be of some use in the protec
tion of our coasts and jurifdiftion, without
running any of the risks which he thought
would be run in fending them out as convoys
Coming from a'large commercial city, as
he did, he should never be backward in his
support cf an effeftual riaval establishment;
but for the present, he thought it best to
keep the frigates about our coast.
Mr. W. Smith agreed with the gentle
man from Rhode Island, that the arming of
our merchant vessels would be a good defence
for our commerce; but he thought there
would be little chance of fucha measure pass
mg ; he fuggeßed to lhat gentleman, there
fore, whether it would not be better to cleave
to thii.—As to the amendment, he was
doubtful of its meaning. Did it mean the
frigates might be employed to convoy vessels
houtid to a foreign port, bnt not within a
certain diflanceof those port?; or did it mean
that they should not go further lhan thres
miles from the sea coatt. He thought it very
doubtful, and calculated to coabarrafi the
executive in his pro*, ceding*.
(Tebe continued.)
P HIL ADE L PHIA.,
SATURDAY EVENING, June 24.
PRICES OF STOCKS.
6 per Cent. 16/10
Deferred 6 per Cent, ij/a 13/j
51 pet Cent.
4- per cent. (
i C*ot. lOj
BANK S H A :t£ S.
Bank United States, 17 per cent, advance.
Pennfylvanra, 27 1
North America, 53 (
IXSUR /JhCti CO MP ANY SHAPES.
I. C. of N. A .. 50 per cent, advance. *
Pennsylvania, 3 1
— <
From the, Bojlon Chronicle of the 2 ifl.
The French, if they are wife, (and the French
Dire&ory Uat this moment the wifefl. and most en- '
lightened Executive in the world) will ttrvrr con
clude a peace with England but 011 two conditions. !
Firll that free bottoms will and shall make free j
goo«*s, atry thing in Mr. Jfly's treaty to the con- ,
trary notwithilanding Syeh a determination is '
worthy of their high consideration, and the happy ,
infuenct they have attained, 011 the affair?? of the -
world. Sxtch an article would befhemaKing of ;
America. *No future plenipotentiary, bribed cr 1
unbribed, would then dare to violate this great
NATIONAL RIGHT. For it is apparent that no
(hip of. war, has any more authority to infpeft the ]
goods of a neutral veflel, than a pickpocket or 1
bnrglar has a right to search your fob, or break ;
your house open, under the infultiog pretence that
you have contraband goods concep-lcd in it. Why
may not a sergeant's guard, as well search the house -
oi Mr. Wm. Smith, or Mr. Sitgrcaves, or any o- '
ther consequential chara&er among our Congrcff- <
ional Ariflocrats (if there is another consequential
'chara&er to be found aniongft them) as a boat's (
crejv to search an American crDanifh vessel without
their content I Now the Danith government never
permitted the Britifli to search their ve&els. But
our high-fpifited, haughty, fighting, independent
government, has permitted injuflice, under the lafl
Congress ; and we are determined to quarrel with
France, because ifcewifhes to be frf.e from the ef
fc<fls of their folly, ignorance,timidity, or corrup
tion.
As afecond condition—France will have Canada
and Louisiana. she firft the British nation must
grant to her ; the second the Spaniards will fell to
her for a valuable consideration. The French will
have Canaca b* cause it was taken from them nn
juftly, by the mifcondud of her Kings ; and it is
the duty of a republic to correel those errors, or
faults, in the administration of affairs which their
former rulers have occasioned. Secondly, more
than half the present people are Frenchmen, goo 4
and true ; and ought to be as free as their brethren
in the commonwealth. Thirdly. Like the Ro
mans they might provide for twenty op thirty thou
sand veterans in this growing settlement. Fourth
ly. It would open a source of lucrative com
merce, for those mar.ufaiflures which might then
'be consumed. Fifthly. It would put it out of
the British power to encourage and let loose the In
dians ; and they have had thousands of them at
their jsommand according to Burgoyne's proclama
tion and Pickering's letter at the time of his treaty
with them.
As to Louifiana—ln the firft plaee, the French
would be a barrier to Peru and Mexico : a fort of
of watch over these mines. For the Britiih will
be so afraid, after their late beatings by the French,
that they would never venture to South-America,
if .they to meet a Frenchman there.—ln
the second place,
The common advantages of Coloniaation,would
make this country a to the re
public'; and might.afford tt Convenient offcee to
Bnonaparte—-argovernor or prfefident.
u
note.
The foregoing is a more explicit avowal of enmi
ty to the' peace, liberty, fafety and independence of
the United States» than any thing that the pen of
a nefarious.fa<Jlion has yet produced. The reader
will observe that not the smallest benefit is propos
ed to result to the people of the United Sta e& from
the plan, except that the British will not have it in
their.power to let loose the Indians upon us.
A late writer in a Conne&icut paper afTerted
that the Indians, previous to the peace of 1763, had
been at war with tht people on the Frontiers for
o;»e hundred years—and to ascertain the difference
between French andEnghfh influence on the minds
of the Indians, consult the newspapers of the late
Dr. Franklin.
It needs not the spirit of prophecy to determine,
that fhouid the wishes of the fadlion be realized,
peace will be a stranger to our frontiers so long as
an Indian exifls to wield the tomahawk.
By th-is day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, June 13.
Captain Uptoti, arrived at Salem from
Bourdeaux, failed in company with the ship A
■mhy, of Philadelphia, which ship had on
hoard Mr. Munroe, our late Minijler in
France, and family.
Yejlerday arrived here in 7 days from Hal
ifax, His Britannic Majefly's Packet Prince
Ernefl, Captain Sdmyler. By this arrival
we have London News to the 6th of May—
no latter than by the Orion—though we feleS
several important articles which did not find
their way into our Cork papers—They follow
under the date of
HALIFAX, June 8.
Lajl Evening arrived here his Majrjly's
Packet, Prince Ernefl, in 28 days from Fal
mouth. IVe heve receivedpapers by her to the
6th of Mayj and have extracted from them the
very interefling intelligence of the Peace concluded
between the Emperor ahdthe French Republic.
Mr. Hammond had arrived at Vienna, and
theJlrvigefl expeSations were entertained that a
general Peace would immediately take place.
The embargo flill continued injhe ports of
France. The mo/I perfeS order'wai reflored
in the fleet at Sp'ithead—the firfi division of
which under Sir Alan Gardner had dropt
down, the other divisions were preparing to fol
low, and the whole fleet was immediately to pro
ceed to sea. The men, gratful to government
for the indulgence Jhewn them, go to sea with
inyeafed enthusiasm to meet the enemits of their
Country.
The following are the mofl interefling Arti
cles which are continued in the London papers.
LONDON, May 6.
Mr. Baflet, one of the King's MefTen
gers, arrived at Lord Grenville's Office yes
terday with dispatches from Sir Movvon E
den, his Majefly's AmbafTador at the Court
of Vienna, dated the J2d ult* They con
tain an ample confirmation of the important
inteib'gence announced to the public in our
last paper. The preliminaries of peace bet
ween hie Imperial Majesty and the French
Republ'c, were Igned on the ;3th instant, J
betiveen his Royal -Higfinyfs the Afchduko )
Charles and Gen. Buonapartet
We believe we may state, with some de
cree of confidence, that the bafis> on which
the Preliminary articles of peace was agreed
to, was—that the Emperor confenteEto cede
to the French Republic the Low countries,
the country of Nice, Savoy, and Avignon.
The other complicated ot the general
arrangement for the peace of Germany, and .
we hope, of Europe, are to be fettled at a
Congress to be held at Bade, to which his
Britannic M-ijefty has the option of fending
an ambassador, if he pleases. Mr. Ham
mond will, therefore, arrive at Vienna very
opportunely to repair thither, as he is char
ged with full powers to treat for this coun
try. Mr. Hammond was met at D.refden
on the 25th ult. on his journey to Vienna.
We cannot but regard the nature of thdfe
Preliminaries as favorable to Great-Britain,
underallthe circumstances ofthe cafe.—The
French by admitting of a Congress have a
feandoned that filly and vain ftipulatioA of
treating for peace only , at Paris, to which
all the powers of Europe who wished to sue
for it, were to fend their plenipotentiaries.—
As a cessation of arms on the Continent, has
alfobren agreed on, in order to give-time
to fettle the various points which mud come
under discussion, we may hope that the ap
pointment of a Congress may lead to a fa
vorable result. From the particulars \yhich
are already known, we difcoverthe cheering
profpeft of a general peace.
But whatever may be the ultimate effeft
of the peace between Auflria and France,'
one material advantage is certain to he deri
ved by this country from that event—the
drain of cash from England to Vienna will
henceforward cease, and the vote of Parli
ament will only be to cover the advances hi
therto made to his Imperial Majesty. Such
is the purport of a declaration made in the
House of Commons last night, by the chan
cellor of the Exchecquer.
In regard to the Ecclesiastical Ele&orates
and every thing which relates to the new ar
rangements of the terrkories on the Rhine,.
which heretofore made a part of the Ger
manic Empire, those the House of Austria,
could not of itfelf surrender : and upon these
points it is agreed that there lhall be held a
Congress.
The dispatches brought by Mr. Baflct,
in addition to the intelligence above stated, !
mention the disastrous condition of the Im- |
perial armies, prior ro the preliminaries of j
Peace being signed, as related in the official ,
letters contained in tha last French papers.
On the receipt of the news from the con
tinent yesterday, consols rose to 5 1, but they
afterwards gradually fell to 48.
The Dublin mail of the 2ft inft. came to
hand yesterday. Its contents are of consi
derable importance. It appears that gov
ernment are in pofTeffion of such documents
belonging to the United Irishmen atßelfaft, 1
as place beyond all doubt the intentions of
the malcontents " to overthrow the Consti
tution and betray the country into she hands
of the enemy." His Excellency the Lord !
Lieutenant has sent a mefTage to the House
of Commons upon this important fubjeit.
BOSTON, °fune 20.
FROM ENGL AND.
On Sunday, Capt. Henshait, arrived
herefrom London, in 46 days. Ihe papers
brought were no later than beforP~ received:
the oral information of ihe- Captain and Gentle
men passengers, is, that peace was certainly £s"fin
ally been fettled between the Emperor and the
French, which they deduce from the opinions of
the befl iuformed persons of different political
sentiments; and it was also, believed that
Great-Britain, though not included in the Aus
trian Treaty, would he at peace with France
in a very short time. 20f. Bank Notes, de.
Jigned as a circulating medium, passed at Icf
petitions continued to pour in upon his Majefly
for the removal of his Minijlers, and for the
termination, of the war.
A gentlemen from St. Andrews, N. C.
acquaints us with the arrival there of the ship
America, capt. Luck, fri)m Torbay, which
she left May IT, the Pcfitive News of a sign
ing a Treaty of Peace, between the French
and Aufiriuns, was circulated when she
failed.
BALTIMORE, June 20. '
Messrs. Tundt & Brown,
GENTLEMEf,
Deeming it essential to the mercantile in
terests of America, for them .to know how
matters are mauaged in France at present, you
will please inform them, through the chan
nel of your ufeful gazette, that on the 16th
of March, the cargo of the ship H°P e >
this port, confiding of tobacco, sugar, and
some few ilavc's for dunnage, all bona fide
American property, and bound to Falmouth
and a market, was condemned as a good
prize to the captors. The particular rea
sons for the fame (though very trifling) we
would willingly furnifh you with, for the
government of merchants generally, but the
copy of the condemnation was forwarded
on to the government of the United State?
• last evening ; on ,jts return you shall be fur
nifhed with a copy of the fame.
Yours, &c.
Monday, June 19.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
New-York, June 23.
ARRIVED. DATS.
British Packet, Prince Eraeft, Schuyler,
Falmouth 42.
Ship Ofwego,Clark, South Seas, ißmonths.
Brig John, Storey, St. John's, Newfound
land 22
Sloop Mary Ann, Qtiinton, St. John's
(N. B.) 10
CLEARED.
Brig Lucy, Loveless, St. Domingo
Mary, Choate, Havre-de-Grace
Ship Jenny, Dean, from this port, bound
. for £anton, is taken by a French privateer
1 ! and sent for St. Domingo,
ISliip Geneeai Lincoln is fafe arrived a{
Lfonddn. • " 4 »
the Log-book of the-Ship OTSScoi
June 8, Jpale the brig Rnftta', of NetV
Tori, Capt. Tylee, lot. 26. 30. lotin 66,'
00. bound to Aux Cayes. ivht, on the jt/l
fpwe a Jchooßcr from DominicOi bound id
Wdliamsiotuny, N. C. that on the \th jpole a,
French privateer, th * had the flip fenny, of
Nciv-Yerk, that <wiu bound to Bengal, in toiu',
_and bound t& the Wejl Indies.
'' • ~ - --■J ;■ ■>. •
4,5,000 pieces of Nankeens
150 boxes brown Havailnat Sugars
Imperial HyfonTea^
T / tuLg Quick SiNcr
Sail Canvas, No. i a 8
A large ailortment of Nails, (Harp arid flat point!
Queens Ware, well aflorted in crates and hhde,
London Particular and > >ir . .
India Market / Madeira \«ne.
TenefilH? Wine ip hhds. and pipes
Bottled London Porter in tierces
Fine Vellow l*airtt, dry in calks
Writing Slates ir boiesapd bundles
A hot erf (nk StiHdiand'Nste PrelTei
Mancheflcr Goods in chofis
3 trunks black Sewing Silt
6 tons of Sheet"Lead
Best Coal, and
A qcsntityof Wise Bottles
tfer Sale b}
Philip MUlin, Co.
Jutie a 4. atawif
Jay's tnftruftions. -
On MONDAY rtcxt uiiitbe p'Jbl'ijhedi
By SNOWDEN & M'CORKLE,
No. 47, North Pi ' Tb St^reeU",
And to be haa of the priticiDll EOOXSELLE3.3,'
1 ' No. V,
Of the Hiflory of the United States
for 1796, &c. ,
This and !h: preceding number proferit the pub
lic with a copy of Jay's Instructions, a per
formance anxiotifly concealed hf the Executive
from the House of Reprtfentatives, and the con
tents of which hav'cicited thc mod ardent eurio
fity.
1 his number likeyrife contains feme fibular and
authentic papers relative to Mi-. Alexander Kamii
trn, late Secretary of the Treasury. No greater
proof can be given of the value which he has at
tached to their fupprcjjion, than the following anec
dote.
. u During the late fot the election of a
" President, Webster, in his MinerVa, gav» a hint,
| " that Mr. Hamilton would be an ad vis cable can
! " didate. A person in this city, who chanced r»
" fee this new/paper, wrote immediately to a cor
" respondent in New-York. Tfee letter de fired him
"to put himfclf ift Mr* Hamilton's way, and in- <
; " form him, that ifWebfter (bould, in future,print
| " a fiugle paragraph on that head, the papers refcr
' " e J to were, instantly, to be lai3 before the world.
1 u c TbemcJJ'age delivered to Mr. Hamilton, and tbs
" Minerva becamefilent /"
June 34. tawzw
Samuel & Miers Fishes,
No. 27, Dock-street,
Havejufl received per Abigail, Babcocl, from
Belfast,
IRISH Cambricks, in boxes of 40 pieces
and 80 patches, each sorted up to 9/
j sterling per yard,
j 'They have also received
j 7-8 & 4-4 Iriflv Linens weH aflorted
; Dowlas and Sheetings,
which will be fold for ready money, or short
credit, on moderate, terms ; together with
a general aflortment of Spring Goods at
usual.—Also,
r Hunter's Pipes in boxes
An aflortment of Queens' Ware in crates
An aflortment of GTafs Ware in calks and
crates
T. Crowley, Milfington, Steel
Cargo & London particular Teiieriffe Wines
. Lisbon Wine of excellent quality
f Superior Sherry Wines
Patent Sheathing paper.
A few small bales fine Cloths neatly aflort
ed, and two bales aflorted Flannels, to be
fold per package.
June 9. 3taw 6w
Mujical Injlrument Manufactory,
No. 167, Arch Street.
) TTARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable grand,
XJI fid .'-board, pier table and square piano forte
mak: r Iron*. l,ondon, returns thanks to his sri nds
' and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
> and hopes that by his afliduity and attentiyi to ev
» ery branch of his business, to merit a continuance
of their favors. Piano fortes made on tKe newest
and mod approved plans, with pedals, pateat,
swell, and French harp stop, which he ilatteis
himfclf will oe found on trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not superior to any import
ed," and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inftru
m«nt purchased of him, if Rot approved of in
- twelve months, he will exchange.
1 N. B. Alt kinds of Mtificrtl instruments made,
" tunecj, and repaired wkh the greatest accuracy,
1 d»fpatch, an<l on the most reaibnable terms, lur
f ready money only. .
i
Second hand Piano Fortes taken In exchange.
May 2G. uSc/,-n.
i j — ;
- Pennsylvania Population Gom
[ pany.
I VT OTICE is hereby given to the Sharcbold
" IN" ers, that a further aflefirnent of fifteen
1 dollars is levied on each (hare, payable iu the
5 following instalments—viz.
One quarter immediately.
One quarter on the ift of June.
, One quarter ou the Ift September.
One quarter on the ift Dec. next.
WJhitli they are {•equrfted to pay tq the Tiea
furer of the Company at the Company's Office,
No. ,53 north Fourth street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned j and they are further
informed that en their neglefling to pay the
fame as above directed, the fevwal forfeitures
• direfled by the Constitution, willl be exalted.
> By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE,
1. Treasurer.
May 15 Jim
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chefls of a fjperior quality— Alio,
100 do. of Hyson,
3 Imported in the W/>odrop Sims, and for sale by
" the lubferibers, corner of Second and Pine
1 street.
r , * C. liaight.
Jneat. eetf
J'.nc itProposals
For carrying MA IL Sos the
United States on the follo wing
Pojl Roads, will be received
at the General Pojl-Office, in
Philadelphia, until the 31ft
day of july r next, inclusive.
MAINE.
*t. From Brewer*# or Scoodie by Machias, Chan
dler's river and Columbia, to Narraguagusonce
a week.
Leave Brewer's every Saturday at 2 P M, and
arrive at NarragUagus the nekt Tuesday by 6 P
m—Returning, leave Narraguagus every Wednef*
day at 6 a m, antLarrive at Brewer's the next Sa
turday by 10 a m.
2. From Narr-vguagus by Goulifborough, Sulli-
Yan,Trenton, Bluehill, Oiftine, Penpbfcot, Buekf*
ton, Frankfort, Prolpecl and Belfaft to Duck-
Trap once a week.
Leave Narraguagus every Wednesday by 6 a
fci. and arrive at Duck Trap the next Saturday by
i'o am. Returning. Leave Duck Trap every Sa
turday by 2 p m and arrive at Narraguogus the
next Tuesday by 6 pm.
3. From Duck Trap by Camden, Thomaftrn,
Warren, Waldoborough, Newcaftie, WifcafTet,
Brunfwick, Freeport and North Yarmouth
to Portland once a Week.
Leave Duck! ran every Saturday by 2 p m, and
arrive at Portland the next Tuesday by 6 P m. Re
turning. Leave Portland every Wednesday by 6
a M,a«d arrive at Duck Trap the next Saturday by
10 A M.
4. From Portland by Biddeford, ViMles and
York, to Fortfins'uth.
April 15 to Odtber 15. Leave Portland every
JMor.diy, Wednesday and Friday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at Portfm*>uth th« fame days by 6 p m. Return
ing. Leave Portsmouth every Monday, Wednef
d?y and Friday at 9 p m, and arrive at Pcrtland on
tiic next day by 6. p m.
O&ober 15 to April 15. Leave Portland every
Monday and Thursday at 6 a m, and arrive at
Portsmouth on Tuesday and Friday by 10 a m. Re
turning. Leave Portfraouth every Tuesday and
Friday at 1 r m, and arrive at Portland every
Wednesday and Saturday at 5 PM.
5. From Portland by North-Yarmouth, Free
jpert, Brunfwick, Bath, Wifcaflct, Dresden, Pittf
ton and Hallow ell Hook to Hallowell court house,
once a week»
Leave Portland every Friday at 8 A. M,and ar
rive at Hallowell court-house the next Saturday by
7 PM. Returning. Leave Hallowell court-house
every Wednesday by 5 A M, and arrive at Port
'land on Thursday by 6 P M.
6. From Wifcaflet by Dresden, Pittfton, Hallo
well Hook, Hallowell court-house, Winthrop,
Monmouth, Green, New-Gloucester and Gray to
Portland once a week.
Leave Portland every Monday by 6 A M, and
arrive at Wifcaflet on Wednesday noon. Return
ing. Leave Wifcaffet on Wednesday at 3 P M,and
arrive at Portland on Friday by 6 P M.
7. From Hallowell Hook by Vaflalborongh,
Fort Halifax, Winflow, Fairfield and Canaan to
Nerridgewok once a week.
Leave Hallowell Hook every Wednesday at 11 I
A M, and arrive at Norridgewock on Thurlday
\fy 6PM. Returning. Norridgewock cn
Monday at 2 P M, and arrive at Hallowell Hook
on Fufcfday by 6 P M.
8* Frotu Hallowell Hook to Farmington on San
dy river once in two weeks.
Leave Hallowell Hook other Wednesday
by 8 A M, and arrive at Farmington by 6 P M.
Returning. Leave Farmington every other Thurs
day at 8-A M, and arrive at Hallowell Hook by 6
PM.
9. From Portland by Falmouth, Gorham, Bux
ton, Standifh, Limerick, Parfonfield, Shapleigh
and Lebanon toJßerwick, once in two weeks.
Leave Portland every other Monday at 8 A M,
and arrive at Berwick on Wednesday by noon.
Leave Berwick every other Wednesday at 2 P
M, and arrive at Portland on Friday by 6 P M
-10. From Standifh by Flinftown. Fryburg aca
demy, Conway and Tamworth to Sandwich in New
Hampshire once in two week?.
Leave Standifh every other Tuesday Vy 8 AM,
and arrive at Sandwich cn Wednesday by 6 PM. Re
turning* Leave Sandwich every other Thursday at
8 A M, and arrive at Standifh on Friday by 6
PM.
11. From Wells by Waterboro*, Sanford, Dough
ty*s Falls, Berwick and Dover, to Portsmouth once
a week.
Leave Wells every Tu *fd3y*by 6 A M, and ar
rive at Portsmouth on Wednesday by 10 A M. Re
turning. Leave Portsmouth every Wednesday by
2 PM, and arrive at Wells next Thursday by b
. P M.
NEW-HAMPSHIRE.
12. From Portsmouth by Dover, Rochefler and
Moultonborough to Plymouth, returning by New-
H amp ten, Meredith, Gilmantwwn, Nottingham
and Durham to Portsmouth once in two weeks.
Leave Portsmouth every other Wednesday by 8
AM t and arfive at Plymouth the next Friday by 6
PM» Returning. Receive the mail at Plymouth
every ot«ier Saturday by 8 A M, and return to
Portsmouth the next Tuesday by 4 P M.
Note. " The post is to go and return on this route
alternately."
ly From Portsmouth by Exeter, Chefler, Lon
donderry, Amherft, Peterborough and Marlbo
rough to JCeene, once a week.
Leave portsmouth every Thursday by 8 A M,
arrive at Exeter by one P M, at Chcfter by 6 P M,
as»d at Keene on Saturday by 4 P M Returning.
Leave Keene every Monday by 8 A M, ajrive at
Chefler on Tuesday by 4 P M, at Exeter on Wed
nesday b}»9 A M, and at Portsmouth by 4 P M.
14. From Concord by Plymouth to Haverhill,
once a week.
Leave Concordievery Monday by 6 A M, arrive
at Plymouth on Tuesday by 3 PM, and at Haver
hill cn Wcdnefday by 4 PM. Returning. Leave
Haverhill eveij Thursday by 8 A M, arrive at
Plymouth «n Friday by 9 A M, and at Concord on
Saturday by 4 p M.
j5. From Exeter to Hampton Falls, three times
a week from April 15 to October 15, and twice a
week from October 15 to April 15.
Leave Hampton fills in one hour after the arriv
al after the arrival of the mail from Boston, and
deliver it at Exeter in two hours, remain at Exeter
two hours and return to Hampton Falls in fix
hours from the time of leaving it.
MASSACHUSE 7TS.
16. From Newburyport, Haverhill, Kingflon,
Exeter, New .Market aud Durham to Dover once
a week.
Leave Newburypert every Monday by 10 A M,
arrive at Dover on Wednesday by noon. Return
ing. Leave Dover on Wednesday by 3 p M, and
arrive at Newnuryport on Friday fey 3 P M.
17. From Salem to Gloucester once a week.
Leave C lowcefter every Wednesday by 7 A M,
end arrive at Salem by ji AM. Returning. Leave '
Salem every Wednesday by 1P M, and arrive at 4
Gloucester by 6 PM. (
Note. Should thh mail be carried in a flag* it ts
to be carried a* often as the ft age runs, the hclirs '
desired to "be stated in the proposals.
18. From Salem to Marblehead three times a v
week. Leave Salem every Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday immediately after the ?rrival of" the n
mail from Boston, and deliver it at Marblehead in
©ne hour and a half, leave Marblehead in one
hour and a half and return to Salem in two hours, f
19 From Boston Haverhill and p
CVcfcer to Concord in New Hatnpfhire cttce a
week.
Leave Concord every Monday by 6 A M, ani ve
' at Chester by 2 PM, and arrive at Boston on
r Ttiefday by 4P M. Rtturning. Leave Boston every
> Friday by 9 A M,arrive at Chefler on Saturday by
/ 11 A M, and arrive at Concord on Saturday by 6
PM.
' 20. From Boston by Concord, Lancaster, Leo
j minster and Alhburnham to Marlhoroligh, Keene
and Walpole in New Hampfhira.
Leave BoHort every Wudncfduy and Saturday by
6 AM, aud arrive at Leominiler by 7 P M.
Leave Leominiler every Thursday by 6 A M,
arrive atKeene by 9 PM, Sc at Walpol onFriday by
1- nAM Rc firming. Leave Walpole oVery Satur
e j day or Sunday by 5 A M, airive at Keene by 9
AM, and at Leominfler in the evening. Leave
d Leominfter every Monday and Thursday by 6
i- am and arrive at Boston by 6 Pits.
U %i. From Boflou by Quincey, Hingham, Hano
l- ver, Plymouth, Sandwich, Barnftablc, Yarmouth,
Dennis, Harwich and Chathain to Truro once a
i- week.
f. Leave Boston every Thursday by 3P m, arrive
at Sandwich on Friday by 6 r m, and at Truro the
next Sunday by 6a m. Returning. Leave Truro
a every Monday by S a m, arrive at Sandwich on
y Tuesday by 7p M, and at Boston on Tliurfday by
l- IO AM.
e 22. From Sandwich by Falmouth and Holmes
Iloieto Edgartown once a week
i, Leave Sandwich every Saturday by 1p m, and
t, arrive at Edgarton on Monday by 11 a m. Return
h ing. Leave fcdgarton on Monday by i p m, and
arrive at Sandwich on Tuesday by noon,
d 13• From Boston by Sharon, Mansfield, Norton
- • and Taunton to Newport once a week.
6 I Leave Boston every Monday by 6 am, and ar
y ; rive at Newport by 6 p m, on Tuefdav. Returning.
I Leave Newport every Wednesday by 8 a m, and
d arrive at Boston on 1 hurfday by 6 pm.
I 14. From Boston by Chariefcon, Medford, Wo
y j burn, Billerica, Chelmsford and Tyngboroegh to
- i Amherft once a week.
- j Leave Boston every Thursday by 10 a m, and
- ! arrive at Amherft the next Saturday noon. Re
n | tumi/.-g. Leave Amherft every Monday noon, and
I arriv® at Boston on Wednesday by 3 p m.
y j 25. From Boston by Randolph, Bridge water,
t j Raynham and Taunton to New Bedford.
From May Ito November j. Leave Boston every
J ! Monday, wednesday and Friday at 10 p m, arrive / at
y j Taunton the next day by 11 a m, and at New Bed-
I ford by 8 p m. Returning. Leave New Bedford
- ever) Sunday, Tuifday and Thursday by 10 p m,
arrive at Taunton the next day by 11 a m, and at
Boston by 8 p m .
From November Ito May x. Leave Eofton eve •
- ry Wednesday and Friday at 9a m, arrive at Taun
j ton by 8 m, and at New Bedford on Thursday &
e Saturday by 8 p m. Returning. Leave New
- Bedford every Monday and wednesday by 9 a m.
arrive at Taunton by| 8 pm, and at Boftou on
- Tuesday and Thursday by 7p m.
, 26. From New Bedford to Nantucket, twice a
) week from November Ito May 1. Leave New
Bedford every Friday and Monday by 6 a m, ar
i rive at Nantucket in the evening. Leave Nantuc
- ket every Saturday and Tuesday by 10 a m, and
1 arrive at New Bedford in the evening.
. From May Ito November 1. LcavfcNew Bed
, ford every Monday, wednesday and Friday by lo
> am» and arrive at Nantucket in the evepmg. Re
turning. Leave Nantucket every Tueiday, Thurf
-1 day and Saturday at 8a m, and arrive at New Bed
r ford in the evening, winds and tide permitting.
1 27. FromTaunton by Dighton and Somerfetto
: warren once a week.
Leave Taunton every wednesday by 5 a m, and
• arrive at warren by 10 a m. Leave warren by r
p m, and arrive at Taunton by 6 r m.
r 28. From Boston byDedham, Providence, Plain
. field, Norwich, New London, Saybrook, Killing
worth, Guilford aod New Haven to New York
> three times a week.
From May 1 to November 1. Leave Boston eve- '
ry Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by 10 a m,
1 arrive at Providence by 6p m, anrive at Norwich
on wednesday, Friday and Monday by noon, at
' New London by 3p m, arrive at New Haven on
( Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at Stan
ford by 9 p m, and at New York on Friday,
day and wednesday by noon. Returning. Leave
New York every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
by 10 a m, arrive at New Haven on wednesday,
Friday amL Monday by 2 p m, at Norwich on
* Thursday Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at Pro
vidence by 8 pm, and at fiofton on Friday, Mon
day and wednesday by I p m.
November Ito May I. Leave Boston every
Tuefiav, Thursday and Saturday by 9 a M, ar
rive at Providence the next days by 9 a m, at New
London every Thursday, Saturday and Tues
day by noon, at New Hayen on Friday, Monday
and wednesday by 3 p m, at Stratford by I p m,
and arrive at New York on Monday, wednesday
and Friday by 11 am. Returning. Leave New
York every Saturday, Tuesday and Thursday by 11
a m, arrive at Stratford the next days by 8 p m, at
New Haven on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
by 9 a m, at New London on wtyinefday, Friday I
and Monday by 3 p m, at providence, Thursday,
Saturday and Tuesday by 4 p m, at Boston on Fri
day, Monday and wednesday by 3 pm.
29. From Boston by Dedham, Mcndon, pomfret
and Tolland to Hartford once a week.
Leave Boston every Thursday by 7 a m , arrive
at Hartford the next Saturday by 6r m. Return
ing. Leave Hartford every Monday by 8 A M,
and arrive at Boston on wednesday by 5 p rA.
30.' From New Bedford to Newport once a
week.
Leave New Bedford every Thursday by 6 a m,
and arrive at Newport by 4p m. Leave Newport
every Friday by 8 a m, and arrive at New BectfbrJ
by 5 r m.
31. From Worcafter by Rutland, Peterftiam and
Northfield to Brattleborough ohcc a week.
Leave worccfter every Tuesday by 1 p m. and
arrive at Brattleborough on wednesday by 6 p m.
Returning. Leave Brattleborough every Thurs
day by 6 a m, and arrive at worcester on Friday
noon. j
32. From Breokfield by Belchertown, North
ampton, worthington, pittsfield and New Lebanon
to Albany
Leave Brookficld every Tuesday and Friday by
9a m, arrive at Northampton by 6 pm. Leave
Northampton every wednesday and Saturday at 5
a m, arrive at pittsfield by I P M, and at Albany
on Thurftfciy and Monday by 7 p m. Returniug.
Leave Albany every wednesday and Saturday at 5
a m, arrive at pittsfield by 5 r m, at Northamp
ton on Thursday and Monday by 7 p m, and ar
rive at Brookficld on Friday and Tuesday by 4
p m.
33. From Springfield by Weftfield and Stock
bridge to Kinderhook oaco a week.
May 1 to November 1. Leave Springfield eve
ry Tuesday by 3 r M, arrive at Kinderhwok on
Thursday by 6 P M. Returning. Leave Kinder
hook every Friday by 9 a m, arrive at Stock* 1
bridge by 3? m. Leave Stockbridge on Monday 1
by 6 a m, and arrive at Springfield by 7 p m.
November 1 to May x. Leave Springfield every
wednesday at 6a m, and arrive atKinderhook on ]
Thursday by 2p m. Returning. Leave Kinder
hook on Thursday by 4r m, arrive at Stockbridge 2
i.'D Friday noon Leave Stockbridge evtry Tuef-
day at 6 a m, and arrive at Springfield by 7 r m.
34. From Suffield by Weft Sp; ingfield, Northamp
ton, Greenfield, Brail'.eborough, Weft minder, Wal 1
pole, Charleftown and Windfoi to Hanover twice a
week.
Leave Suffield every Tuesday and Friday at am, [
Tiive at Northampton by Irm, at Walpoleoll Wed
nesday and Saturday by 5 r m, at Windloron Mon
day and Thursday by 2 rm, and at Hanover by 7 r *
m. Returning. Leave Hanover every Tuesday and
Friday by 6 a m, arrive at Windsor by 1 r m , at Wa!-
pole cn Wednesday aod Saturday by r and "at u
Morthamplbn on I*hur fday acd Monday by noon, and
at Sliffield by 7 r m.
e 35 Fi*om Hanover by Orford and Haverhill, to
n Newbury once a'week.
y Leave Hanover every Wednesday by 6a m, arrive
y at Haverhill by 4 rm, and at Newbury by 5p m.
Returning. Leave Newburv every Thursday by 6 a
m, anivt at Haverhill by 8 am, and at Hanover by
>. 6 pm.
[e .
Vt RMONT.
y 36. From Windsor, by Rovalfton, Randolph, Wil
liamflon and Montpeiier to Burlington once in two
I week*.
ir s Leave Windsor evfcry other Thursday by 6 a m,
and arrive at Burlingtonthe next Saturday fcy 6 p m.
Returning. Leave Burlington every other Monday
9 by 6 a At, and arrive at Windsor on Wednesday by 6
A r M
37. From Windsor to Rutland orce a Veek.
Leave Rutland every Monday bv 7 a m, and arrive
>- at Windsor on Tuesday by 6 rm. Returning.
Leave W'ndfor every Wednesday h*' 6 am, and ar
a rive at Rutland on Thursday by 6r m.
38. From Burlington by Vergennes and Middlc
e bury to Rutland once a week.
Ie Leave Burlington every Thursday by 8 a m, and
o arrive at Rutland on Saturday by 6p m. Returning.
n Leave Rutland every Monday by 8a m. ancLarrive at
y tfurlingfon on Wednesday noon.
39. From Rutland by Mmchefter, Bennington,
, s Lanfingburg and Troy to Albany.
Leave Rutland everv Monday at 8 a M,and arrive
, at Albany the next Wednesday by 6p m. Return
ing. Leave Albany every Thursday by 8a m, and
arrive at Bennington by 7p m. Leave Bennington
" on Friday by 8a m, aud arrive at Rutland on Satur
day by 7 p m
n _________
RHODE-ISLAND.
40. From Providence by Bristol and Warren to
r* Newport.
d Leave Providence every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday by 7 a m, and arrive at Newport the fame
1- days bv 5p m. Returning. Leave Newport every
0 Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday fjy 8 am, and ar
rive at Providence by 4 p m.
> 41. From Providence by East Greenwich, New
•- port, South Kingston, Westerly and Stonington Point
d to New London once a week.
Leave Providence every Tuesday by 8 a w, and
arrive ?t Newport by 6 pm, leave Newport every
Wednesday by 6 a m, and arrive at New London on
Thursday by noon. Returning. Leave New Lon
t don on Thursday by 3p m, and arrive at Newport on
Friday by 6 p m, leave Newport on Monday by 7 a
M, and arrive at Piovidence by 5 p m.
1 CONNECTICUT.
42. From liartfo%i by Windham to Norwich
once a week.
Leave Hartford every Tuesday by 6 a m, and ar
c rive at Norwich by 7p m. Returning. Leave Nor
v with every Monday by 6a m, and arrive at Hartford
by 7 p M.
ing and Colchester to New-London, once a week.
Leave Hartford every Tuesday at t p m, and arrive
1 at Newi London on Wednesday by 7 i"m. Return
v ing. Leave New London every Thursday by n a
m, and arrive at Hartford on Friday by 7 p m.
44. Frpm Hartford by New Hartford, Canaan,
* Sheffield and Hillfdale to Hudson once a week
Leave Hartford eveiy Monday at 2 p m, and arrive
- at Hudson on Wednesday by 11 am. Returning.
? Leave Hudson every Wednesday at 2p m, and arrive
- at Hartford on Friday by 11 am.
45. From Hartfqid by Litchfield, New Milford,
. Newtown, Danbury and Ridgefield to New York
once a week.
j Leave Hartford every Monday by 1® am, arrive at
Litchfield by 7 p m, at New Milford on Tuesday by
j 11 am, and at New York on Thursday by 8 am.
f Returnrng. Leave New every Thursday by 4
p m, arrive at New Milford on Saturday noon, at
Litchfield by 7 r m, and at Hartford on Monday by
8 am.
46. From New-Haven by Derby, Southbury,
.Woodbury, Bethlem, Litchfield and Gofhen, to Ca
naan, once a week.
Leave Canaan every Monday noon, arrive at Litch
field by 7 pm, and at New Haven on Wednesday by
' 10 am. Leave New Haven everv Wednesday by 2
r m, arrive at Litchfield on Thursday noon, and at
Canaan by 7 pm.
1 47. From New York by White Plains, Bedford,
Fredericktown, Dover, Shar n, Sheffield, Great
* Barrington, Stockbridge, Pittsfield and Williamfton
- to Bennington
r Leave New every Monday, Wednesday and
, Friday at 5A M, the next Wednesday, Friday and
1 Monday at 6P M. Returning. Leave Bennington
. every Saturday and Tuesday by 5 AM,
. and arrive at New York the next Saturday, Tuesday
and Thursday by 6 P M.
If the stages run but once a week on this route]the
r mail is to leave New York every Monday at 5A M,
" arrive at Bennington on Wednesday by 6P M. Leave
Bennington on Thursday by 5 A M, and arrive at
■ New York on Saturday by 6P M.
r 48. from New York bv Yonkers, Peekfkill, Fish
, kill, Poughkeepfie,Rhinebeck, Redhook, Clermont,
r Hudson, Claverac and Kinderhook to Albany three
' times a week.
Leave New York every Monday. Wednesday and
Friday by 2 P M, arrive at Tarrytown by 8 P M
Leave Tarrytown every Tuesday, Thursday and Sa
turday at 5 A M, arrive at Poughkeepfie by '7 P M.
Leave Poughkeepfie Wednesday, Friday and Sunday
by 5A M, arrive at Kinderhook by 7P M. Leave
Kinderhook every Thursday, Saturday and Monday,
at 5A M, and arrive at Albany by 8A M. Return
ing. Leave Albany Thursday, Saturday and Mon
day by 3 P M, arrive at Kiuderhook by 7 P M.
Leave Kinderhook Friday, Sunday and Tuesday, at
sam, arrive at Poughkeepfie by 7 r m. Leave
Poughkeepfie Saturday, Monday and Wednesday, at
5 AM, arrive at Tarrytown by 7p m. Leave Tarry
town every Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday, at 5 a
m, arrive at New Vork at 11 a m.
49. From Albany by Troy end Lanfingburgh, to
Salem, once a week.
Leave Albany every Tuesday at 8 a m, arrive at
Lanfuigbnrgh by 10 a m, and at Salem by 4 PM. Re
turning. Leave Salem every Monday, by 8a m, and .
arrive at Albany by «p m. '
50. From Salem by Granville, Fairhaven, Vcr- .
gennes, Bason-Harbour, Wiilfboro', Pet u and Pitts
burgh, to Champlain-town, once in two weeks, <
Leave Salem every other Wednesday by 5 AM, and
arrive at Plattfburgh the next Sunday by 5 PM. Re- j
turning. Leave Piattfburgb every other Monday at 8 ,
a m, and arrive at Salem the next Friday by 4 p m.
51. From Lanfingburgh by Waterford, Stillwater, j
Fort Edward, Whitehall landing and Fairhaven, to
Rutland, in Vermout.
Leave Lanfingburgh every Thursday by noon, and 7
arrive at Rutland the next Saturday by 6 r m. Re
turning. Leave Rutland every Monday by noon, j
and arrive at Lanfingburgh on Thursday by 10 a m.
,52. From Albany by Schene&ady, Tripes Hill, a
Conajoharry* German Flatts, Old Fort Schuyler au-t
Whitestown to Rome. The times deftred to beJlatcd in
the proposals.
53. From Schene&adv by JJalltown Springs and
Glenfbiidge to Sandy Hill onr-e a week.
Leave SeKenertady every Tuesday by 6a m. and c
arrive at Sandy Hill by 4p m. Leave .Sandy Hill on
Wednesday by 6 am, and arrive at Schene&ady by *
4 PM.
54. From Tripefhill to Johnfton once a week.
Leave Tripeftiill in one hour after arrives
from Albany on Tuesday, arrive at Johnftou in two
hours, flay at Johnfton two hours, and return to 0
Tripefhill in two hours.
55. From Conajoharry by Cherry Valley to Coo- r
peritown twice a week.
Leave Conajoharry every Wednesday and Saturday b
at 6 am, and arrive at CooperfUwn by 2 p m.
Leave Cooperftown every Tuesday and Friday by 10 I
a m . and arrive at Conajoharry by 6 r m.
56 From Cooperftown by Butternuts and Oxford I ®
Union once in two weeks.
Leave Union every other Monday by 10 am, and *■
arrive at Cooperftown on Wednesday by 5p m. Re
turning. Leave Cooperftown every other Thursday
by 6 a M,a«d arrive at Union on Saturday by 3 p m.
57. From Old Fort Schuyler by Cincinnati to
Ox.'ord Academy once in two weeks.
Leave Old Fort Schuyler every other Thursday by V
6 a m, and arrive at Oxford on Friday noon. Re
uru ing. Leave Oxford every othet Friday by 2 rm, ;
ai.d arrive at Old froit Stkuylef on Saturday by 7
p m. ,
0 58 From Rome by to Rotterdam once
in Iwo weeks.
c Leave Rome every other Thurfdry by 1© A m, and
arrive at Rotterdam by 6 r Ni. Returning. Leave
K Rotterdam every other Friday by 9a u, and arrive
y at Rome by 6P M. #
'9. From Rome by Oneida, Onondaigua, Scipio
and to Kauandaigua onee a week.
Leave Rome every Thursday by 10 A M, and ar
rive at Kanandaigua thp wext Monday by 6 AM
0 Leave Kanandaigua every Mondav by 10 AM, .and
arrive at Rome the next Thursday by 8 A M.
r, 60. From Kanandaigua by Hartford to Niagara
I. once in two weeks.
v Leave Kanandaigua every other Monday by 10 A
5 M, and arrive at Niagara the next Wednesday by 7 P
M. Returning. Leave Niagara every other Friday
by 6 A M, and arrive at Karvmddigua the next Mol
e day by 6 AM.
61. From Rhinebeck by Kingflon, Shawanjrunk,
. Wardfbridge, Gofhen, Hamburg, Newtown, John
fonfburg and Hope, to Eafton, once a week.
Leave Ration every Thursday by 3 P M, and arrive
at Rhinebeck thenex: Sunday by 5P M. Returning.
1 Leave Rhinebeck every Monday by 8A M, and arrive
at Eafton en Thursday by to A M.
I 62. From New York by Harkenfack, Paramus,
New Antrim and Chester to Gofhen once a week.
t Leave New York every Friday at 7 AM, and ar
rive at Gofhen on Saturday by 6 P M. Returning.
e Leave Gofhen every Tuesday at 6A M, and arirve at
. New York on Wednesday by 6P M.
i 63. From Fifhkillby Newburgand New Wind for
r, to Gofhen once a wesk.
Leave Fifhk.iil every Wednesday by 7 A M, and
arrive at Gofhen by 5 P M, Leave Gofhen every
Tuesday at 7 A M, and arrive at Fifhkill by $ P M.
64: From New Y®rk by Jamaica, Huntington,
} Smithtown, BroOkhaven, Suffolk, Southampton &
Bridgehampton t« Sagharbour once a week.
. Leave New fork every Thursday at %o A M, and
arrive at Sagharbour the next Saturday by 6 P M.
* Leave Sagharbour every Monday at 8A M, and ar
rive at New York on Wednesday by 5 P M.
NEW-JERSEY.
t 65. From Woodbridge to Amboy three times a
week.
1 Leave Wood bridge Monday, Wednesday 61
. Friday at 8A M, and arrive at Amboy by 9 A M.
l Leave Amboy at noon and arrive at Woodbridge by
1 PM. v
j 66 From Trenton by Allentown, Monmouth
k court-house, Shrewsbury, Middletown Point, Spotf
wood, New Brunfwick,Somerfet, New Germanton,
Pittfton and Flemirtgtonto Trenton once a week.
Leave Trentou every Tuesday by 10 A M, and re
turn to Trenton the next Tuesday by 6 A M.
1 67. From Philadelphia by faunton and Atfion to
Tuckerton once in two weeks.
Leave Philadelphia every other Wednesday by 3
P M, arrive at Tuckerton on Thursday by 6 P M.
i Leave Tuckerton every other Tuesday by 6A M, and
arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday by 9 AM.
68. From Philadelphia by Woodbury, Swedofbo
rough, Woodftown and Salem to Bridgetown once a
week.
Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday afternoon by
3 o'clock, and arrive at Bridgetown on Friday by 2
PM. Leave Bridgetown on Saturday at 8A M, ind
, arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday at 9A M.
69* From Philadelphia by Jenkintown, Plumflead
and Pipers by Bethlehem to Eafton once a week.
Lqgve Philadelphia every Wednesday by Io A M,
and arrive at Eafton on Thursday by 2P M. Return
ing. Leave Eafton every Monday at 9A M, and ar
rive at Philadelphia on Tuesday by 3 PM.
70. From Plumflead by Pipers and Alexandria to
Pittfton once a week.
Leave Plumflead every Thursday by 5 A M, arrive
at Pittfton by 11 A M. Leave Pittfton by 1 P M,
and arrive at Plumflead by 7 P M.
71. From Eafton to Wilkefbarre once a week.
Leave Eafton every Thursday by 3 P M, and arrive
at Wilkefbarre on Saturday noon. Returning. Leave
Wiikefbarrre every Tuesday noon, and arrive at Ea
fton every Thursday by noon.
72. From Philadelphia by Norriftown, Trap,
Pottfgrove, Reading:, Lebanon and Harrifburg to
Carlisle.
O&ober 1510 April 15. Leave Philadelphia every
Tuesday and Thursday at sunset, arrive at Reading
every Thursday and Saturday at 4 PM. Leave Read
ing every Friday at 8 AM, arrive at Carlisle every
Sunday by It AM. Returning Leave Carlisle eve
ry Sunday by 2 P M, arrive at Reading on Tuesday
by 4 P M, leave Reading every Wednesday aud
Monday by 8 A M, aqd arrive at Philadelphia on
Thursday and Tuesday by 4 P M.
April 15, to Oftober 15. Leave Philadelphia eve
ry Wednesday and Friday at 8 A M, arrive at Read
ing on Thursday and Saturday by 11 AM. Leave
Reading every Thursday noon, and arrive at Carlisle
the next Saturday by it A M. ' Returning. Leave
Carlisle every Monday noon, arrive at Reading on
Tuesday by 7P M. Leave Reading every Wednes
day and Monday at 8 A M, and arrive at Philadel
phia on Thursday and Tuesday by 9 A M ( ,
73. From Reading by Hamburg. Sunbury and
Northumberland to Louifburg once a week.
Leave Reading every Enday at 6 A M, and arrive
at Louifburg on Monday by 10 A .M. Returning.
Leave Louifburg every Tuesday poon, and arrive at
Reading on Thursday by 4 P M.
74. From Harrifburg by Petersburg, Millcrftown,
Thompfontown, MifHintown, Louiftown, Hunting
don, Alexandria, Centre Furnace, Belle Fount, Milei
burg, Aaronfburg, Miffliuburg, Louifburg, Northum
berland, Sunbury and Halifax to Harrifburg once in
two weeks.
Leave Harrifburg every Saturday by 6 A M, wait
ing at each poft-office which fhali be established on
the route, two hours* and return again to Harrifburg
the next Monday by 8 A M,
75. From Somerset by Connellfville to Union once
a week.
Leave Somerlet every Thursday by 5 A. M.arrive
at Union by 4P. M. Leave Union every Friday bv
8 A. M and arrive atSomcrfetbv 7 P. M.
76. From Pittfburg by Cannonfburg, Washington,
Weft Liberty and Wheeling, to the mouth of Fish- J
ing Creek, once a week.
Leave Pittfburg every Friday by noon, and arrive
at Fishing Creek on Sunday by 9A M. Returning.
Leave Fishing Creek every Wednesday by 4 P M,
and arrive at Pi tfburgthe next Friday by 10 A M.
77. From Preston by Washington to Cincinnati
once a week.
Leave Preston every Friday at noon, arrive atWafh- (
ington by 8 PM, and at Cincinnati the next Monday ,
noon. Returning. Leave Cincinnati every Tuesday ,
at 6A M, and arrive at Wafhingtoa on Wednesday f
by 5P M. Leave Washington at 9 PM, aud arrive ,
at l'refton on Friday by 11 \ A M.
From Petersburg by City Point to Bermuda Hund
red, three times a week.
Leave Peterfbura every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday by 6 AM, and arrive at Bermuda Hundred '
by »o AM. Leave Bermuda Hundred by 11 A M, 1
add arrive at Petersburg by 3 PM, on the fame days. J
KENTUCKY. 1
78. From Washington by Springfield, Bourbon,
Lexington, Frankfort and Harrodfburg to Danvilje
once a week, c
Leave Washington every Saturday by 8 A M, and c
arrive at Danville the next Monday by 5P M. Re. a
turning. Leave Danville every Tuesday by 8 A M, /
and arrive at Lexington on Wednesday noon, and at .
Washington on Thursday by 6 P M.
79. From Danvilje to Lcu'fville by Beardftown
once io two week#
Leave Danville every other Tuesday by noon, ar
rive at Louisville the next Thursday by 3P M. u
Returning Leave Louifvillc every other Friday by
6 AM, and arrive at Danville on Saturday by 6 P M
80. From Danville by Stamford and Cumberland d
Gap to Moffat's store in TcnnefTeeonce a week. ti
Leave Danville every Monday at 2 PM, and arrive r
at Moffat's store the next Thursday by 6PM. l eave -
Moffat's store every Friday by 6A M, and arrive at „
Danville on Monday by 10 A Mi
TENNESSEE,
81. From Knoxvillc by South Weft Point and
Fort Blount and Craig Fort to Nafliville once in two
weeks. ,
Leave Knoxulle every other Tuesday by 8 A M,
and arrive at Nashville the next Monday by 9 A M.
Returning. Leave Nashville every other Monday by
1 3P Mi "id »rive at ihe next Siturd«v bT
8 PM.
C
3 MARYLAND AND VIRGINIA,
c Bt. From Baltimore by Ellieot's Lower \fi!U,
- Montgomery Cotirt House, Charle(burg, Lecfbufg,
Middleburgand War cot on toCulpeper, c. h. oocei
3 Wfflf .
I.rave Baltimore every Monday noon, arrive at
L'cefburgon Tuesday evening, and at Culpeper*Cou:t
Hoafe the next Thursday noon. Returning. Leave
Culpeoer Court House every Friday noon ax»d arrive
at Baltimore the next Monday by q A M.
* 83. from Allen'* Frefa by LudJow's Ferry to Port
Conway in Virginia once in two weeks,
* Leave Allen's Fresh every other Monday by 6A M,
and arrive at Port Conway by 6P M. Returning
/ Leave Port Cenway every other Tuesday by 8A M,
' and arrive at Allen's Fresh by 7 PM.
84 From Morgantown by Petty John to to Clarkf
•' bury once in two weeks.
l * Leave Morgantown every other Monday by 5 A
M, and arrive at Clarksburg by 5 PM. Returning.
e Leave Clarksburg every other Tuesday by 8A M, and
arrive at Morgantown by 8 P M.
e 85. From Todds to King and Queen, c. h. once 1
week.
Leave Todds every Thursday by g A M, arrive at
King and Queen by 11 A M Leave King and Quteri
ati PM, and arrive at TodtJs by 6 P M.
86. From Halifax by Danville to Cafwell court
c house once in two weeks.
Leave Halifax court-house every orber Tuesday by
r 2 PM, arrive at Cafwell court.house the next Wei
nefday by 6P M. Returning. Leave Cafwell C. tj.
* every other Thursday by 6A M, and arrive at Halifa*
Y court-house 90 Friday by noon.
87. From Petcrfburgh bv Susie* court house
| and Southampton court houfc to South Quay, one*
: in two weeks.
Leave Petersburg every other Wednesday by 6
A M and arrive at South Qgay on Thursday by 6
PM- Returning. Leave South Quay every other
Monday by 6 A M and arrive at Peterlburg on
Tuesday by 3 PM.
l NORTH-CAROLINA, &c •
once in two weeks, the mailt© go alternately.
' f Leave Newbern every other Thursday by 6 A
M, remain at each of the offices two hours, and
, return to Newbern the next
89. From Wilmington by Georgetown to Char
, lefton, once a week.
Leave Wilmington every Monday by 6 AM 1
■ and arrive at Charleston the next Thursday by 10
AM. Leave Charleston every Thursday by 3 P
' M and arrive at Wilmington the next Sunday bv
5 PM.
1 90 From Norfolk by Kempfviile, Great Bridge
and North Weft River Bridge to Jonefbor©', once
in two Meeks
Leave Norfolk every other' Wednesday at A
M and arrive at Jonefboro' on Thursday by 7 P M ;
Returning. Leave Jonelboro* every other Monday
by 10 A M and arrive at Norfolk on Tuesday by 6
P M.
91. From North Weft River Bridge by New Le
banon to Elizabeth city, once in two weeks.
Leave North Weft River Bridge every other
Friday by 6 A M arrive at Elizabeth city by
6 PM- Leave Elizabeth city ev.ry other Satur
day by 6 A M, and arrive at N. W. river bridge
by 6 p M.
91. From Salem, N*. C. t>y Betkania, Flower-
Gap Grayfoncourt-houfe and toWythe
court-house once in two weeks..
L eave Salem every other gaturday by 6 "A M,
and arrive at Wythe c. h. the next Mon. by 6 r M.
Leave Wy the court-house every <>ther TueCday by
9 AM, and arrive at Saleip the next Thursday by
6 PM.
93. From Murfreefboro' by South Quay to Suffolk
once a week.
From Murfreefboro* every Wednesday by 6vf M,
arrive at Suffolk bv 6 PM. Returning. Leave Suf
folk every Tuesday by 6 AM, and arrive at MurfreeU
boro*-b)' 6 P M.
04. From Fayetteville to Pittfburg once in two
weeks.
Leave Fayetteville every other Wednesday by 6 A
M, aud arrive at Pittfburg on Thursday atio'ytfM;
Leave Pittfburg every other Thursday by a PM, and ar
rive at Fayetteville on Friday by 6 P M.
GEORGIA AND SOU TH-CAROLINA,
95. From Au ,ufta by Robinson at the White
Ponds and Gillets mills to Coofahatchy, once a
week.
Leave Augusta every Tuesday by 8 A M and ar
rive at Ceofahatchy on Wedntfday by 7PM. Re
turning. Leave Coofahatchy every Sunday at 6 A
M and arrive at Augusta on Monday by 5 P M.
96. From Georgetown to Rocky Landing in
Georgia, once in two weeks.
Leave Georgetown every other Morday at 6 A
M, and arrive at Rocky Landing at 5P M. Re
turning. Leave Rocky Landing every other Tuef
diay by 6 A M and arrive at Georgetown by 6 FM.
NEW JERSEY. t
67. From Newtewn,by Hacketftown, Morriftown '
and Chatham to Newark, and from Newa-k back by
Chatham, Morriftown, Booneton, Rockaway and
Sparta to Newtown, once a week.
Leave Newtown every Thursday by 5 A M and ar
rive at Newark on Friday by 10 AM. Leave New
ark every Friday by 2 PM, and arrive at Newtowm
on Srturday by 6 P M.
Note I. The Pofi Majicr General may alter the timet
of arrival and departure at any timeduriug the continuante
"f the contracts, be previoufy fipulating an adequate com
pensation for any extra expense that may be occasioned their
by»
Nje 2. Half an hour ffoall be alloivd Jor opening
and clcjing the Mail at all offices 'where no particular tint
is fpeafed.
Note For every hour's delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in arriving after the times preferibed in any can
trafl, the ContraElor Jkail JorJcit one dollar, and if the de
lay continue until the departure *>f any depending Mail,
whereby the Mails defined for such depending Mai/ 7 fafc
a trip, an. tdditiinal [orjeitune of jive do.lars fhjdl be
incurred•
Note 4, Neivfpapers as -well ae Letters art U be sent
in the Mails ; and if any fierfon making proposals dejiret
to carry nezufpapers o'her than tbofe conveyed in tie mail,
for his own emolument, be mujl fate in his prep/fair for
Iwhat sum he will carry it -with that emolument and fct
ivhat sum ivitbvnt that tmolurnent.
bete SLonld any person. maling proposals deft re an
alteration of toe times of arrival and departure abwt Jfijy
cifedy be mm ft Qate in bis proposals the alteration l
J an i tin difference they will make in the terms of hit cm.*
trafl.
Note 6. Persons making p> cpofals are desired to fate
their prices by the year. Tbofe who contrail •wilt receive
their pay quarterly, in the mouths of January t Apul t
July and Oflaber.
Note 7 The contrails are to le in operation on the frft
day ef Otlober next, and continue for four years 9 until
the frfl of October 18oi—excepting contrails for the
routes Nj. 8, 9/ IO # 31, 36, 50, Jl, SJ, 60, 74,
76, 77> 8?, 81, 83, 84. 87, 90, 91, 92, 96
7.hicb are to continue/or two years until tb ifl of Oihber t
*799-
JOSEPH HARERSHAM,
Pojl-Majler General.
General Pod-Office, Philadelphia, ?
May 27th, 1797. >
Jane I. n SiWtJjl