of tuan» hiladelphia
Number 1491.]
For Sale,
Tlie fine and remarkably f.ift
Virginia and Philadelphia
Burthen about 100 tons-. For terms apoly to
Rofs & Simfon.
June ra. dtf
For St. Thomas,
THE SHIP
Ann and Mary,
Captain Butts ;
' WILL fail in ten days. For
. freight or paflage apply to
nF, COPPINGER.
No. 221, South Front Jireet.
June 9. diot
For Sale,
Jg||li ACT IV K,
the joth inft. at the doffce-
House, at 7 o'clock, P. M, as (he came from fca :
file is known to be a faft faiier. Any paiticular in
formation may be had on application to Capt. Bing
ham on boaid said brig, at Mess. Jeffe and Robert
Wain's Wharf, to John Plankinhom, or Thomas
Stewart. Inventory to be seen and terms of pay
toentto be made known at th« time of sale.
_Jnne 8. t f
For London,
WILLIAM "pENN,
James yosiAH, Majler.
WILL fail with all convenient speed. For
freight orpaffage apply to
J e J}e & Robert Wain.
May 19 5
£For Sale,
The cargo of the brig Enterprise, Captain
I.angdon from Bourdeaux, now landing at
Morton's wharf,
CONSITING OF
524 hhds. of Claret "] 3 .
217 cases of ditto -o "u
too cases of Sweet Oil
Ho pipes London proof ) brANnv § «
10 pipes of Holland proof j W -v
Apply to
Wharton Ess Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
Said Brig,
WILL take a FREIGHT for
the Weft-Indies or Europe, fails
faft, burthen about fifteen hun-
barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply as above.
May 24 f
For Sale or Charter,
, -* —THE SHIP
*£&££ WARREN,
Benjamin Church, Majler..
about aBo toj»s burtheo. En-
quJ rc of
Jeffe Eif Robert Wain-
May 16 5
JohnTarris, master.
A GREAT part of her cargo is engaged, and
fie will fail in ten days. For freight or pas
sage apply to capt. Tarris, at Willing; & Francis'
wharf, or to GURNET & SMITH.
May 15 §
- For Freight or Charter,
Brig Fame,
5 FR ANCIS KNOX, Mailer:
A strong, excellent vessel, has been just fheathled and
ready to receive a cargo. She will carry a.ooo bar
rels, rias good accommodations so passengers.
Appiy to
Capt. Knox, or to
Kearny Wharton.
June 6. , 6p
HAY.
A Quantity of excellent Old and New Hay to
be had at Peel Hall Farn) on the Wiflahickon
Road, about 2 miles from the City.
Also, A QUANTITY OF BUILDING STONE.
June 8 ff6t
FASHION AND CHEAPNESS.
INTELLIGENCE TO THE LADIES.
JUST received from London, two trunks of ele
gant BRUNSWICK KID Ladies' Shoes, of the
moll fafhionable patterns and shape now worn in
that city, ai;d will be fold off immediately in small
quantities, atfitftcoft, forcafh, at Mrs. ENEFER's,
No. 105 WalDut street, between Third and Fourth
llreets.
%* The above was purchased of Mr. Fox, in
Piccadilly, who manufactures for most of the nobi
lity, and will be warranted good, J
J une '3 t . ?3t 1
John Miller, jun. & Co
Have received per the India, Afhmead, from
Calcutta,
A well ajforted small Invoice if
Gurrahs
Baftas
Coffaes
Calicoes
Bengal Stripes <
•■Laid in remarkably low, which they will fell for
cafli or short credit 011 very advantageous terms.
June 5. diwfri4th
George Dobfon, «
No. 35 South Third-Street,
HAS imported per ships William Penn, Starr,
and Diana, frpm London,
5-4 Super London Chints, elegant patterns,
' Ginghams, Muflinetts and Dimity's.
Falhonable Waiflcoating, newest patterns.
Ribbands well assorted, in small trunks.
4-4 5-4 and 6-4 India and Britishßßook-mu- f
lins.
Fancy Cloatlisand CafTamiers.!
The whole to be difpoled of cheap for Cash
Or approved Notes of a fnorr date.
June 14,'97, d. tf.
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY EVENING, JUKE 19, 1797.
A Quantity of Brandv,
FIRST & id proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in piprs
a Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
0 Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different lizes
Hazlenuts, infaiks
Whiting
Copperas f .
White Lead C in hhds
& Spanifl) Brown J
For Sale by
PET&R BLIGHT.
January 4
Rols & Simfon,
Have for Salt,
A QUANTITY OF PRIME
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lisbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Caiks
A few Quarter Chests best;
' Fresh liyfon and ) <
• Hyson Skin 5 1 hAi>
Muscovado Sugars in Hogfiieads, and
t Coflee in Tierces
s March 7. , |[tf
' C. E. Whitlock,
DENT / S T,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of Philadelphia and its vicinity, that he
continues to perform all operations on the Teeth ; sup
plies the deficiencies of nature with artificial or real
teeth, in all the various modes of fixing—Cleans,
files, regulates, extra&a, and fills decayed teeth wi h
r gold or lead, Sec. &c. He waits upon Ladies and
Ceatlemen at their hcuTes, and will be happy to re
ceive their commands by note, at Mrs. Finch's, No.
68 north J&ighth street, or at his house. next to the
Black Horse Tavern, on the Frankford road.
Dollars.
Scaling and cl eaning
t Artificial tfeeth, with enamel, per tooth,
Do. in gold sockets or screws y
t Natural eeth with ligatures 7
Do. on gold or ivory lockets, or gold screws xo
Filing and cutfirfc away decay— each decay I
Filling with gold 2
Do. with lead t
E®tra£iing(to the families who employ him
as dentist) t
Do. where not employed %
Tooth powder of his own preparing i
Brushes, best London manufa&ure 25 cents.
Regulating, See. according to the operation.
*** C. Whitlock will fell the time of a Negro
Man ; —he i honest and sober, and has about 5 years
and a half to serve. Enquire as above.
J une '5 fatthtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Cbefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly affortcd, very low on
fliort credit.
March 6. §
To be Sold,
A large and convenient
Three Story Brick House ;
SITUATE at the north-east corner of Arch and
Fourth-streets. It contain* eighteen rooms—
and is in every refpecl well finifhed. For particu
lars enquire of
M. Keppele,
No. 138, Chefnut-ftreet.
May 31. f
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No. 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents J
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskini.
May 15 (J
WALKER fcf KENNEDY,
No. 73, South Front Street,
Have for Sale,
_ Virginia Tobacco, of thiißifhmond inspec
tion
350 bbls. Virginia' Flour andjMiddlings
500 bushels Wheat
5 calks Ginfang.
JILSO,
Three cases Rouen* Linens, entitled to the
drawback
100 pieces Bandannses, and
100 cadies India Sewing Silk.
June 15 • tlnwat
Grattan and Camp. ,
D EfpeAfully informtheir friends, that they have ,
IX. imported from London per the Ihip Star, a
large assortment of '
PERFUMERY,
Which is no w opened for sale at their Houle, N».
192 Market-street.
Also, a new aCToitaient of ready-made gentle- t
men's linen, fliirts lr.m 1 dollars each to 8 dollars. ;
&C. &C. &6. * J
Ladies and gentlemen are accommodated with
board and lodging at ten Dollars each. *
Ttiofe Gentlemen \*ho have their own private 1
lodgings, may be accommodated with dinner only,
by the week or mouth.
>""g 5 6t
To be fold,
The time of a stout hearty young NEGRO MAN, '
who has upwards of four years to serve. Enquire
at No. 15, Dock-street.
J une '3- daw F
Window Glass,
• 7 r
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
theTCity— n
OF VARIOUS SIZES, 1'
From 8 by 6 to jg by 14, Jt
By the Tingle Box or Quanii'.y, may be had at the c
S:ore of the Subscribers, corner of Arcli and Front
ftreet,
James C. fcf Samuel W. Fisher .
Philadelphia, J'incg, '797- 'i'wniwftf
For sale, h
A pair of very handsome
Bay Horses, 1
Near fixtcen hands high, well broke, and uer- *'
fedly gentle. Enquire at Mr. Kelson's stables, C
Church-alley. ,
Also, for Sal ',
A Chariot and plated Harness.
June 13. drop I
By John Fenno, N°- 119 Chefnut Street,
PART'S, April J 7 .
The Militaty Commiflion. ppprjinted to
j try the Agents. of Louis XVI jl. .on the
I charge 6f crimping, Ins at lift tjeclared, that
Brottier, Duverne de Prede, Villeharuois. and
e ' Pr »'y. are Ruilty of the crime* they (land
eharged with ; bat at the fame time it has
• commuted the capital punifbment they had
incurred, into ifnpnfonmer.t for ten, five, and
one years. The Dire&ory with
this sentence, has by an Arrete of jhe Bth
ind. ordered the above citizens to be tried
by the Ordinary Tribunal, on a iha-gp of
conspiracy, which Arrete is the m»re remark
able, as the Direfilory had before conflantly
rejefted the petition of the prifonere, tliat
theymight be allowed to take their trial before
the Ordinary Tribunals.
[tfEMARKS.
The Exertions of the Di.RjcTOjty to
cause a capital punishment to be infli&ed on
Brothttr, and the other persons trier}, by a
Military Commission on the charge of crimp
j ing, have proved equally unfuccefsful as its
intrigues to influence the ele&ions. Enra
ged, however, at the failure of its endea
vours to destroy the above individuals, the
Directory has now ordered them to be tried
by the ordinary tribunals on a charge of con
- fpiracy. Yet it may be hoped that the pub
h'c opinion, which at present is far more
il powerful in France than the arbitrary arrctcs
of the Directory, will likewise succeed.in
j fruftrating this new projeft of theirs for
the deftruetion of the prisoners.]
>. The Electoral Bodies in thp different depart
e ments, have chosen tfce following Deputies.
—Department of the Lower Seine, Citizen
Delaquefnerie, Ex Deputy Attorney General
of the chamber of Accompts at Rouen {Citi
zen Charles,Ex-DrputyAttorrtey-Gerferal of
the Parliament of the fame town; Durumaire
Belligny.-jnllice of the peace at St. Cw'e
bee ; Bevin de Montillet, Le Juine de Se'-
monville, Leroux des Troifpierres, Judice of
the peace at Lauret. Department of La Vi
enne—Citizens Montant des Ides, Ex-
Member of the Legislative Assembly, and
Rampillon, who tad a narrow escape of being
3 affaftinated by the Revolutionarv Tribunals
» of Robespierre. le the Department of Lolret
—Henri de Longtierne, Ex Member of the
- Constituent Assembly, and Johannet, late
Recorder of the Commune of Orleans. In
the Department olYonne—Citizen Leclerc
president of the Criminal Tribunal, Ex
Member of the Lrgiflative Assembly, and
J a man of great talrntsand prudence. In the
Department of La Sotnme—Citizens Mail-
I»rt of Morcdi'dtsn, Dauffy, Ex-Mettber of
the Legislative Assembly, Robecourt and
Maillart, Lawyers at Amiens. In the De
partment of E-ure—Citizens Latoche, La
bonllage, late Major of Cavalry, and Trone
pon,an Ex Notary. In the Department of La
Ni«ve—Citizens Bouquerot de Coligny,
Public Accuser, and Jourclon, Ex-Member
of the convention. In th« Blepartment of the
Meufe—citizens Champion, late Attorney-
General of the Department, and Vallee, pub
lic Accuser. In the Department of Seine
and Marne—Citizens Grolb#is, late pirft |
President of the Parliment of Befangon ;
Goifenois, andjaucourt, a diflinguilhed Mem
ber of the Legillative Assembly. lnthede- 1
partment of Seine and Oife—Citizens Vauvil
liers, lately acqnirted of the charge of bet'njr ;
an accomplice in the conspiracy of B'ottier I
and Bnrelet, formerly in the service of Count ■
d'Artois. In the Department of L'Oife— 1
Citizen Merfemont. In the Department of '
L'Aube—Citizen Riviere, President of the '
Department ; and in the Department of L' ,
Eure, the celebrated Marmontel, and the
Citizens Pavie aud St Aigßan.
The treaty lately conoluded with the Pope I
was ratified by the Council of Five Hundred J
in the fitting of the 12th inft. Chv.al ob
served, on this occasion, that be wat a (ton- c
i(hed to find, that the re-tra£h'on of the I
Briefs issued by the Pope, again!!; the ci-de-
vant civil constitution of the Clergy, had *
not been infilled upon, but his fpeeh was
received with marks of general difqjproba- a
tion. P
\ ___ a
ANOTHER PLOT I .
Is said to have been difrovered atTouldn,
tending to set at liberty all the gall'y Saves ®
in that port. A great number ®f poniards
have been found, and two famous T-rrorifts,
who held places under the Directory, have c ]
been arretted on this oceafion. n
a:
The affaflin of Sieyes is i j tiring
pried, and a partizan of the fiirio'Ji dema
gogues, who are on their trial before the *
high court of Vendome. 1
The utmost diferganizatiou contnues to P,
prevail at Bred. The cannoneers of the C 1
navy have received no pay for th'fe two te
months pad. The desertion encreStes to a
mod alarming degree, and the folders pub- 1,3
liely dechre, " that they will not aihwthem- T ' :
selvesf elves to he thrown on the English cvifl, le- ::
cause they cannot longer be furnifhed <tilhpro
•vi/iont."
J w
Generals Pichegru, Jourdan and Kleber
have been elc£led Deputies by their re'fpec- tc
tive departments, and the Department of 1
I.a Manche has eledled the celebrated M. de ar
Bottgairtvrlle, formerly Chff d'Efcadre of XI
the ancient Roj al Navy, and M. Foligny,
Captain, of the fame navy.
VIENNA, April io. [
AN ARMISTICE FOR SIX DAYS u
Is r.ow concluded between the armj of Go-
»» neral Boonaparie and that of the Arrljdnkr
Charles; within which time, a definitive an
tr> fwer is to be given to cerrain prists relative
he to (lie conclnfion of a pea.-f. Shsttlc} ho
iat flilftus the« commence, events of (he u mod
nd importaiu-e may be expefled, The Austrian
rid airr.y, which is now approaching the capital/
as will receive considerable reinforcements, and
id be joined by 15 000 men lately arrived from
nd the Rhine.—people of Tyrol are r.fitig in a
th mass and the commoiior.s in the Venetian
th States threaten the French with an attack in
ed Ihe rear. Prince Efterhazy is advancing thro'
of Cioatia with a confrderable body of Mub
k- garian«, and thraughout Atidria, aH perfotii
ly capable of bearing arms are ready to march
at againd the enemy. Vienna will in a few days
re be the rendezvous of a mod formidable artny.
All the different workmen and manufacturers
will march the enemy, with their ma
tters and employers at their heai; and ihtife
to who, through age Or infirmiticr. are unable
>n to go themselves, will fend substitutes.
a It is said that General Clairfsyt wiil take
ft- the command of a body of Auuriana The
ts whole country of BobemiV will Hkeu ifc, in
1- cafe oi necessity rife in a m«fs,
a- (Another Letter fame da'e )
le After Mtjtlr General Meerfeld, who was
d sent by the Emperor to General Buona
-- parte to propose an Armistice bad returned,
> it was reported that an armiltice was eonclu
*e ded for fix Days and expires ontnr:2ih
rj inft. Hoftiiines will therefore recommence
n tf> morrow, fWn'.d the propositions ot Pea e
ir made by onr Ceurt to Gen. Buonaparte ..ot
be accepted by the latter,
t- Sunday Is ft the Minifler, Barsn Thtrgut,
i. had a long conference with the Emperor, rela
n tive to the conditions proposed by the enemy,
il These are said to have been eery harith.
Buonaparte repaired, itisaflerred among
f others things, the payment of tec milliona
; of livres, and tbe concliifion a? a Treaty of
Frienddiip and Alliance between tbe Empe
ror and tbe French Republic. On our fide,
f the cession of the Nethei lands ft ems to be
- consented to; but the French will be required
. to restore all their other eonquetts.
I We hope, however, from the zeal of all the
r fubje&s of the bouse of Austria, and the fuc- :
s eefs aheady gained by our Generals in the 1
t Tyrol, that, fbould refute thecon
r ditions that have been offered they will find
; themselves defeated in their further attempts
1 againd our country.
; MILAN, March »8.
, The municipality of Mantua, on the IJth, de
. creed the abolition of the'nobility. One of our
gazettes fays, " wc are persuaded Mantua will be
: added to the grewing republic of Italy." The
. public wilh on thn head has been {an&ioned by the
p municipality, who have lent a special messenger to '
I Buonaparte to request it. We learn from Turin,
that orders were given on the I ?th to put oa the :
war eftablifiiment the legion and the two free corps
as well as the Savoy regiment of infantry, and to
complete all the other regiments.
1 —— i
General Quarters at Clagenfurt, j
[ 12th Germinal, Ift April. j
Buonaparte General in Chief of the Army t
of Italy, to the people of Carinthia. i
The French army does not come into your t
, country to conquer it, nor to effeft any <
change in your religion, manners nor cuf- t
' toms. It is the friend of all nations, and e
particularly of the brave people of Germa- 1
I ny. ,
The Executive Direftory of the French s
Republic, have spared no pains to lying to 1
a termination the calamities which defo- c
late the Continent ; resolved to be forcmoft 1
in accomplilhing the plan, they sent Gen- r
. eralClarketo Vienna as a Plenipotentiary, to j,
commence Negociations for Peace; but the t
Court of Vienna refufedto hearken to him;
It has even been declared at Vicenze,
through the Medium of Mr. St. Vincent,
that it did not acknowledge the French Re- I
public.—General Clarke demanded a pass
port to go speak to the Emperor himfelf; {
but theMinifters of the court of Viennadrea
ded, with reason that the moderation of the
propositions, which he was charged to make,
would influence the Emperor to conclude a
Peace.—These Ministers, cdrruptedbygold,
betrayed Germany and their Prince, and v
are as reluftant to negociation as the I
perfidious Islanders who are the horror of d
all Europe. h
Inhabitants of Carinthia, I know it, you tl
detest as much as us, both the English who p
are the only gainers by the existing war- ai
fare, and your Mini'fter, who is fold to them. £
If we have been at war for fix years, it is ei
contrary to the willies of the brave Hunga- I
rians, of the enlightened Citizens of Vienna, t(
and of the simple, but honed; Citizens of a<
Carinthia. rt
No matter; in spite of England and the d
JVTinifters of the Court of Vienna we are e:
friends. The French Republic assures to le
you the rights of them difap- I
pear before the contradt by whichwe are re- h;
ciprocally bound. You will not join in a con- tc
test which is contrary to your fentinients.
Tovl will furnifli the provisions which we
may want'. Oil my part I (hall protest your
religion, your manners, and your property.
I (hall not exaft from you any contribution.
Is not the war of itfelf horrible enough?
Have you not already fuffered too much, you
who are the innocent vidlims of others' folly ?
The impositions you have been accuftonied
to pay the Emperor will indemnify you for M
the inevitable losses attending the march of
an army, and the provisions with which
you will furnifli us.
PIANO FORfE F ,
LONGMAN BRODERIP's
ROYAL patent Piano Forte with a green
board, an excellent toned inftrornent. For
sale ft Mr. Filters, No. 3. Feurtb Street.
June 10. «izvr.
n- . PAPERS
vc Which accompanied the PrefidenCs Mefage of
0- t,/je l2l h injl. on SfraniJli affairs.
.11 [COiVCLM>ii£.j|
\a 1 —
,iy (No. XX.)
IC I From his Excellency Manuel Gayofo dc Lemos,
ra t 0 -Andrew EUicott, Esq.
i a Natchez, April 14th, 1797.
)s) MY DEAR SIR,
in lAM informed that the Officer com
-0 ■ manding your escort, has enlisted several per
-- ions, residents of this government, which J
jj being a g, a '"ft the laws of nations, I cannot
I, pass unnoticed, it being an infringement on
■ s the sovereignty of the King my rnafter, and
r. a Regard of the authority refidihgin me.
rt _ Ica not persuade myfelfthat it was done
intentionally, nor thinking that it could
r e g' ve the most remote offence; but as the 1
| e matter is of a most delicate nature, I re
quest yau to give the necefiary orders, that
e the men so enlisted may be discharged, and
'* delivered to Major Minor, whom I conlmif
h fion for this purpose.
objeft of the escort not being to
raise men in this country, while under his '
s Catholic Majesty's dominion, I reqneft of '
„ you likewise to give. the most precise and
, positive orders to the officer of the troops,
1. or to whom it may appertain, to difoontinue *
1, such proceedings, or any thing that may ir.-
e JUQ. the immunity of the King's dominions,
e or his royal rights.
t The most perfeft harmony arid friendfhip
subsisting between his Catholic Majesty and.
f the United States of America, the fame ■
being recommended in the most particular"
. manner to the individuals of both nations*'
it would be unaccountable if we, that have
■ had the honor to be diftinguiftied by our
1 appointments, did not promote this friendly'
f reciprocity, which not only consists in ahhos e
. pi table and polite intercourse, but guarding*
, and keeping to one another the prerogatives,
. and privileges that are due.
I Encloled I have t;he honor of tranfmit
tmg to you a litl of tie men, that to myje
■ knowledge, have been recruited, or fuffertfl' H
, to be recruited, in this government, b J tht' <1
: officer commanding your escort. ,
I have the honor to be,
with the highest consideration, «
Sir, ce
Your most humble,
- and obedient servant,
.v. Mawuel Gayoso de Lemos.
The Ho^A.Eliicott.
(No. XXI.) a-
Tht bon. A. Ellicott to Manuel Gayofr J e Ltmojf-
Natchez, April 14th, 170 . I
MY DEAR SIR,
YOUR Excellency's favor of this dati
was handed to me by Major Minor ; but th«
request it contains is of so general and imf
portant a nature, and affe&ing so deeply thai
privileges of the citizens of the U. States
that I must take a ihort time to inveftigatiy
its ultimate tendency, as a part, if not all oir!
the persons named in your Excellency's h'ft.=-
cannot, by any conftrudlion of the late
j treaty, or the laws of nations, be consider-* 1
ed as the fubjefts of his Catholic Majefty.j.
You may reft afTured, that haviug in view
the fiicred artd honorable principles which*®
are the basis of that government I have the
honor to serve, and by which treaties are
considered the most lkcred of all obligations, 4
I will be careful neither to infringe the]
rights of the fubjech of his Catholic Ma-*
jelly, nor willingly fuffer infringement
those of the citizens of the United States, ,r
I have the honor to be, &c. &c.
Andrew Ellicott.
(Copy.)
His Excellency Manuel Gayofo de Lemos.
(No. XXII.)
Frcm Lieutenant Col. Charles de Vault dc La] Jus ?
to Major Gen. Anthony Wayne, '•
A'e=w Madrid, on the MiJJifippi, ''
Dec. i%tb 17QC.. ''
SIR
LIEUTENANT TAYLOR has deli- *
vered me your Excellency's letter, dated e
Detroit, October 19th, 1796, and accor- *
ding to your intention I have acquainted f
him with the orders I have received from
the Governor-General of this Province, res- r
petting the treaty of Friendship, Navigation *
arid Limits, between the United States of r
America, and the King my matter. I here !>
enclose a copy of my letter to him, wherein \
I hope you will fiud fufficient and fatisfac- -
tory information. As Lieut. Taylor has, "
according to his irtftru&ions, determined to *
return from here without going any further
down, I am about fending immtdiately an _
express to New Orleans with your Excel- .
lency's letter to the Governor-General of
Louisiana ; I will think myfelf happy if I *
have succeeded in complying with your in- *
tentions.
I have the honor to be, r
with the highest refpedl.
Your Excellency's most
obedient humble servant,
(Signed) ° f
Charles De Hault De Lassus,
Lieutenant Colonel in his Catholic '
Majesty's fen-ice, and Commander .
of the post of New Madrid.
Major-General Anthony Wayne, ")
Commanding the army of the t
United States of America. J
(No. XXIII.)
From Lieut. Co! Charts Hault de L off us, to Lieut. <
Taylor.
A on the
December \%tb> 1796.' >
SIR,
According to bi3 Excellency Majon-Gen.
[V&LVMB X 4.Ifb^
Wayne's dell re, I have KfiftoV to ! lfrrrm
you tar my having received from tfie Gover-
Jior-Gfenrnl of this Province, information £
refpectin? the ratification bf the TtcSty of j £
Friendflup, Navigation aad Limits, between v
the King-my master, and the United Statet c
of America. You haVe seen in this letter c
whHi I have read to you, that I have or- c:
d.rirnqt to prevent in the Iraft the going "
U-jv/n the Mifiifippi of the Commiffitfners (i
appointed on the part bf the ,United States fj
to fix the limitafemd of the troops who are 0
to accompany them ; but that in the mean si
time lie orders me to tell them, that the eva- t<
cuati.on of the posts cantiot take place until
the time of high waters. I will beg leave £
to observe to you, that although this is the 0
affirmative answer that Gen. Wayne spoke t
cf, yet as he fays that the troops, who are «
to take ppffeffion of the posts, are now -o
Waiting at Fort Maflac, their coming down
the river immediately, that is, before the 11
"fcigh- waters, would be somewhat fopner
than the Governoi--Geheral of this Prbvin.ce n
fcems to expett, and fotuewhat contrary to p
JMajor-General Wayne's own intentions, — v
. since he" tells the Baron de. Carbndelet, to h
appoint the raoft convenient time for the *
evacuation of the posts. I hope yon will j.'
, be so good as to make that obserVation to ( j
such officers as are in possession bf General c
Y/ayne's ordep refpe&ingthe taking of pof-' }j
session of the posts, and at the fame time to t
make them sensible of the convenier.cy it
■will be to both the Americans and the Span- J;
iards to wait for a more proper season for the t
tranfpert of artillery, baggage, provisions,
&c. which could not be moved at this pre- v
scut time, without'much trouble and' risk on c
account of the river being so remaikably- t
low, as to render its navigation very dange- f
rot}?.
I hive tte honor to be, Sir, t
Your most obedient, t
and very humble servant, r
CharlEs De Hault De Lasses, f
- Lieutenant Colonel in his Catholic ■
Majesty's service, and commander
of the post of New Madrid.
To Lieut. Taylor.
c
DEPARTMENT OF STATE, f
roth junb, 1797. t
I hereby certify, That the foregoingdocu- <
tnents numbered from Ito 21, inclusive, — *
are true copies of the original communica- 1
tion from Andrew Ellicott, Esq. the Com- ,
miffioner of the United States, appointed j.
to run the Boundary Line between their I
Territory and hia Catholic Majesty's Colo- f
r.ies of East and Weft Florida, to the St;- c
cretary of State.
GEORGE TAYLOR, JUN.
Chief Clerk. (
> / *(No. 10.) J
Mr. Ellicott's compliments to his 1
friend Governor Gayofo, and wishes to be 1
mfortned, whether the following informa-
tion which he received this day " that all (
the works at the Chickefaw Bluffs have been ,
either demolished <r. carried to the opposite j
lide of the river, and that every exertion is ,
making at the Walnut Hills to put that post I
in a state of,defence," be correct. 1
March 33d, 1797. '
* The above n umber was omitted in its proper
place.
The following Bill is now pending in the Legisla
ture of the Uulted States.
A Bill to prevent the arming tf private flips,
except in certain, cases, asd under certain
regulations.
Sec. x. WHEREAS it is prohibited by law
that any veflel be fitted out t< armed within the
jurifdiaion of the United States, with intent'to
be employed in the service of any foreign prince
or state, to cruise or commit hoftflities uponthe
citizens or property of another foreign
prince or itate, with whom the United States
«re at peace ; and whereas for a due execution
of this prohibition the Prefidtnt of the United]
States has heretofore, deemed it neceflaiy to di
red) that no merchant velfcl, armed within tb« 1
United States, fhocld be permitted to be cleared
out, deltined to any foi egli country, except to
f, mt pert in the East Indies, until further regu
lations ihonid' be made'en this fubjea by Con
gress, which regalations it is now become ex
pedient to make, as well that the.said prohibi
tion may be duly enforced, as that tie-lawful
trade cf the citizens of the United States may
hot continue unprotefUd & cxpofed to unlawful
violences and feizutcs upon the high sea.
Be it enacted by the Senate, and House of Rep
resentatives of the United states of Amet icay in
Congress ahmbled. That it (hall not be lawful
•for any vtlfel fitted out and armed in the Unit
ed States, with intent to be employed in the
service of any foreign prince or state, to cruize
or commit hostilities upon the fubjeas, citizens
or property of another foreign prince or flats
with whom the United States are are at peace j
to be cleared outor be permitted to depart from
t#e United States.
SeA. a- And be it further enabled, That it
ftal! not be lawful for any vessel, fitted out and
armed in the United States, with intent to de
fend itfelf, if violently and unlawfully set upon
and interrupted on the high sea, in its lawful
trade, to be cleared out or depart out of the U
jiited States, unless the cargo and every part of
it, be bona fide the property of a citizen or citi
zens of the United Slates, and be not contra
trabond, by the general laws of nations, or by
feme yf the treaties of the United States, and
unfefs the fame be destined to a place nei
tiitr invefled nor blockaded-
Se<n. 3. And be "it further enaHed, That no
poods, wares or merchandize, contraband by
any treaty, to which the Usited States are a
party, or by the general law of nations, or be
longing to the fubjeas or citizens of any na
tion, at uar with another, or "difiined for any
place bcfieged or blockaded,lhall be exported out
of the United States, in any armed vessel be
longing to a citizen cr eitiiens of the United
States or under th'e prote*£Hon of a convoy of the
Unite.l States, to any foreign port or place lie
longingto any foreign nation at War with ano-
Se&. 4. And be it further enafted, That the.
master or perfop having the charge or command
of an armed merchant veffel,bound te a foreign
port or place, lhall deliver to die colder cf
the diltria from which such veiltl iha'.l be about
to depart, a maniteft of the cargo on board the
ft»ne,fpecifying theparticulars thereof,to w horn
belonging and where the owner or owners re
side, verified by t' e oath 01 affirmation ci the
ihipper or snippers thereof, a ß dl moreover, the
said mailer or cotnniiJider cr fuchfrjip 01 >
'.i,\ tlie li'npef or ihippers ot tire said catgo, , j
and (he owner 0T owner! of"Rich fcip at' velfel, ! t j
<hail give bond with tWo or more furetles, to th,e ;
fatist'aaion of the uid colleaor, iuafum, at j ,
least to the reafoiuble value of the said •
vessel and cargo, to be afeertained by the said ! "
colieeto-, with condition, that the cargo and j
every part of it is bona fide the, property of a tl
citizen or citizens of the United States, and that t]
no trade shall be carried 011 contrary to the i
laws of nations or Shy of the treaties so which '
the United Statei are a party, and that no fore? P
fhail b; used against a cor» :iffioned (hist of war 1
of any foreign nation, but in fclf. defence,con
formably to the laws of nations and treaties y
to which Uie United States arc a party, and to
such an extent only as defence fhaii reuder ne- , v
cefiiiry, against t!ie unlawful attempts to feareh | I
or seize such armed vefT;l, contrary to the laws C
of aatious or the particular treaty exilii.-ig tie- | (
tween the United States and the nation to n
whom-the ship of war belongs:—whereup-
•on the said colleapr shall grant a clearance for J
the laid vessel and her cargo, fpecit'ying the par
ticulars tliereof and the owner or owners ot ev
ery part thereof, and certifying him or ihem to
be citizens of the United States : and if any ar-
med merchant velfel, bound to a foreign port or r
place; shall depart out of the United States
without such clearance, the said master or person
having the said charge or command, shall forfeit .
and pay the sum of one-thouCmd dollars, for
such offence, and alfo'the owner ot t
said veflel shall forfeit and pay the sum of two 1
thoulaud do'lars f(»r the fame offence, to be re- I
covered by aaion of debt or information, one J
iiaif to the use of the informer, the other half c:
to thsufe of the United Slates. x
Sea. 5. And be it further enaSed, That no
veflel, armed or unarmed, bound to a port of a
belligerent nation, shall be received or taken un
der sonvoy of any ship or veflel of war belong-
ing to, or in thefervice of the United States,
without a certificate to the commander of the
convoy, from the colleaor of the diftria where a
the cargo was laden, afctrtaining that the car- 1
go, and every part of it is not contraband, ei- r
ther by t}ie general laws ot nations or by any of &
the treaties to which the United Statts are a par- e
ty ; and that the said cargo is wholly owned by r
cit.zer.s of the United States, wliofe names and
rtfiderice lhall be inserted therein, and that the e
said veiTcl is irot bound to a place, aaually c
sieged or blockaded.
Sea. 6. And be it further enacted. That the t
cargo to be exported out of the United States, J
in any armed Veflel, or other veflel, intended to j
fail under American convoy, banging to any
citizen Or citizensof the Unitcu otates, to an)
foreign port 0/ place, belonging to a foreign na c
tion at war with another, ihall be laden and put '
c« board iikch veflel, in the day time, jn the pre
fence of an of customs, who shall en- t
ter in a book, to be by him kept f the name or t
names of the owner or pwners thereof, togetl er t
with a description of the feveril particulars com-
posing the cargo, and the marks, numbers,
kinds and descriptions of the refpeaive packa
ges which shall be laden in such veflel, and a true 1
copy thereof, shall be by him, certified to the <
colleaor of the diftria in which such veflel is la- 1
den ; and the daily compensation of such io- ,
i'pe&or, for performing the services hereby re- ,
quired, shall be the fame which is by law allow- j
ed, for every day employed in aid of the cuf- ,
-tpms, which shall be defrayed by the master or
person having eharge of the veflel in which the '
'service, is. rendered.
Sea. 7. And be it firjbrr enaSed, That it 1
shall r.ot be lawful, for any convoy to'ufe force
or fyfler force to be used, a commiflior.-
ed fhfp of war of any foreign nation, but in de
fence of. itfeif, or of the merchant veflels under
convoy, attempted to be unlawfully searched or
seized, contrary to the particular treaty, if any
exists, between the United States and the na
tion to whom the ship of war beloßgs ; or, if
no treaty exists between tlmm, contrary to the'
general laws of nations. ;
Sea. 8. And be it further enpHed, That the
master or commander of every such armed ves
sel, and ajfo every convoy, which shall have
used force in felr defence, during any voyage,
shall within three days, after returning to any
port within the United States, inake'a true re
port of all the material circumstances of the
cafe, in which such force feall have been em
ployed, .fubferibed by the master, mate, and one
fixih part of the seamen, and verified by their
Oaths; and fha.l deliver to the collec
tor cf the diftria where such veflel shall firft ar
rive,to be by him,tranfmitted to the fecretaryof
the treasury, and finally deposited in the office
of the department of state : And if any such
master or commander, shall refufe, or fail to
I make the report herein required, within the
time, and in the manner herein set forth, he
1 shall forfeit and pay, for every such offence, the
I penalty of five hundred dollars, to be recovered
! in the name and for the use of the United States.
! Sea. 9. And be it further enafled, That no
| thing in this aa shall be conitrued to repeal the
j aa pafled on the fifth day of June, one thouf-
J and seven hundred and ninety four, entitled,
" An aa in addition to an aa for the punish
ment of certain crimes against the United
' States," or any clause or part thereof.
CONGRESS.
• HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
: FRIDAY- JUNE 16, '
A meffagc from the Senate informed the
i House that the Brefident had signed the
A&s which originated in their House, for
1 prohibiting the exportation of arms and
ammunition, afld for preventing privateer
: ing
-1 The bill to provide for the fafety of the
' ports and harbours of the United States,
J was read the third time, and about to be
. pal Ted, when
f Mr. Williams observed that he should
- vote against the bill for the following rea
■ sons, viz. because it contained a clause a
' dopting a principle which he conceived to
be both unnecessary and unjust, with ref
pe&s the State Debts ; because he did not
, believe the State of Hew York to be a
f debtor State : and because the adjustment
1 of the expences ot the war, had been made.
" upon the most erroneous principles. Each
" State he said ought to have- been charged
j with'the requisitions of Congress, made du •
ring the' war, and the interest on ar,y defal
-1 i cation of payment in each requisition, and
e t credited with the sums paid, and with such
- other supplies and payments as were pur
" chafed or paid in conformity to aits of
Congress ; but every claim, such as the ex
l pence of the expedition" to Penobfcot, the
! frigate South Caro;*ia, and' such as was
f admitted ought to stand as a charge against
t the United States, and to be paid out of
= common flock. (The Speaker reminded
1 Mr. W. of the qiieftion.) Mr. W. said if
' this objectionable clause could be modified
I | so as to call on the debtor States for the
• j furcs a(!b:r,ed, and accredit States who had
expended money 011 the fortifications, he e
then ftioutd have hopes of an accomodation f'
cfpecially with the State of New York, he
therefore moved fov recommitting the bill,
so as to have these objqdts embraced. t
Mr. Brookes objected to the passing of (1
the bill on the fame ground, and supported t:
the ipotion of his colleague. v
The Yeas ami' Nays were taken on the 1
passing of the bill as follow :
YEAS.
Meflrs. Allen, Baer, Baldwin. Bayard,— j:
BradbUiy, Burgess, ChampKn, Craik, Da- n
venport, Davis, Dennis, Dent, Ege, Evans, j~
Findley, A. Foster, D. Foster, Fowler, v
Gallatin, Gillefpie, Goodrich, Gordon, — j
Grifwold,«Hanna, Harrifon, Hartley, Hind- r
man, Holmes, Tmlay, JoneS, Kittera, Ly- r
man, Machir, Mathews, Milledge, Mor'gan, 1
Nicholas, Otis, Parker, Potter, Reed, — t
Schureman, vie wall, Shepard, Sinnickfon,
Sitgreaves, J. Smith, N. Smith, S. Smith, £
W. Smith, (C.) Thatcher, Thomas, Tho-
mas, Wadfworth. 54. c
nays. ■;
MefTrs. Baird, Blount, Brookes, Bryan,
Cabell, Clairborn, Clap, Clopton, Cochran, A
Coit, Dawfon, ElmendorS, J, Freeman, N. .
Freeman, Glenn, Gregg, Havens, Locke, j
Lyon, Macon, M'Clenachan, M'Dowell, f
New, Skinner, W. Smith, (P.) Sprigg,
Sandford, Sumpter, A. Trigg, Van Allen, 1
Van Cortlandt, Varnum, Venable. J. Wil- j
liams, R. Williams. 35. t
A yil from tl* Senate, for the protec- \
tion of the trade of the United States, was
twice read, and ordered to be committed to 1
a Committee of the whole on Monday.— a
This bill goes into the detail as to the man- 3
ning of the frigates, fixing the pay, rations, ;
See. and also empowers the President to 1
equip nine additional vessels, if he shall fee <
necessary, not to carry more than 20 guns 1
each, to be employed in the proteftion of t
our trade. > 1
.Mr, Varnum moved to have theconfid- t
eration of this bilT postponed till the firft (
Monday in November ; but was informed 1
his motion was not in order. t
.Mr, W. Smith moved the order of the ;
day on the bill ft>r raising an additional corps <
of artillery. 1
Mr. Gallatin moved that the Commit- 1
tee of th e whole be discharged fur- j 1
ther consideration of this bill. He made : 1
this motion, he fnid, for the purpose of 1
shortening the difcufiion ; because, if it '
should be the opinion of a majority, that it j
was not proper- to go into the consideration j
of this fubjeft at present, there would be ; '
no use 'in going into a Committee of the
whole. He did not think, it connected with
the business upon which they were especial
ly called. To carry it into effeft would at j
least cost 300,000 dollars, and no adequate !
benefit would be derivec from it.
Mr. Williams said, before he voted on '
this queftipn, he should be ghd to hear ;
from the Secretary of War what was the
present number of our troops, and where !
the.y were stationed. At present he was of
opinion that the men we had were fufficient; ;
though he allowed it was necessary that time j
fhoukl be -given for artillerists to learn their
duty. He should vote for going into a !
Committee of the whole. '
Mr. W. Smith objected to the motion, !
as, if carried, it would amount to a reje&iou |
of the bill. He was against it, because he
conceived the bill to be necessary ; and he
thought it would appear to be so, from the
! argument of the gentleman himfelf who
i brought forward this motion, as he had told
them, when the fubjeft of fortification was
under -consideration, that if 115,000 dollars
were appropriated, it would be necessary to
have additional artillery to take care of the
new forts. He should, therefore, to be
confident, withdraw his motion. The fame
gentleman had yesterday said this corps
would cost 400,000 dollars a year to-day
he liid three ; but Mr. S. said, he had a
. calculation, by which it appeared it would
only cost 200,000.
Tie gentleman last tip had wished for in
• formation as to the stationing of the present
: corps. He had in his hand a letter from
the Secretary of war to the chair
| man of the Select Committee of the Senate,
i who reported this bill. ( He read it ; from
whicl it appeared that there were 350 pri
vates at the differeat forts oa the Atlantic,
aad the remainder on the Western Frontier)
Theft 350 men were said to be necessary to
keep the garrisons in repair, and that no
part !>f the men on the Western Frontier
z could be detached from thence, as it was
e probaUe their presence prevented a
r War or the frontier from Tennessee to Geor
i gia. To (hew the neceffit'y of- force on the
- frontiar, Mr. S. read a letter and affidavits
from louisville, giving an account of a mur
e der ani other disorders committed by the
:, Indiari. ,
» Btf»re the late reduflion Mr. S. said, the
numba: of the privates in our eftablifnment
i was 4980, and when the 832 additional
1- men proposed to be raised were added to the
[- prefeni establishment, it would be less by
o 1132 men than it then was. He hoped
therefcre they -should go into a Committee
it of the whole, and finally agree to the bill,
a as he vifhed not only to have men now to
t keep the works in repair, but to use the
e guns, if there should be occasion. .
h Mr. Nicholas observed, that two rea
d sons wtre given by the Secretary of war for
i- this actional corps ; one was, that there
I- were ipt men enough to keep the works in
d repair ; the other was, that it was necessary
h to havfe ifcen to use the guns, if necessary.
-- With lefpeft to the moaey voted yesterday
if for fortifications he understood it was in
:- tended to be expended on the forts already
e built, aid not that new ones should be built,
s When these forts were firft erected, nothing
!t more was. contemplated, than putting so
if many inert into them as Wonld be able to
d keep them in repair. They were built in
if populous parts of the country, and if they
d were attacked the inhabitants would be rea
e dy to froteft' them. The militia of New
d J York, Philadelphia and Baltimore, he doubt-
Ed not, tii cafe of danger, would ijocktocje ■ w '
fend their fortifications. I ta
Mr. N. read a letter of the Secretary of tl
War.in January last, ia Which he raeiltioncd tl
that the fortifications were generally in good g'
(late, except a few on which the ravages of tl
.limp had made some inroads, and which o
would require 4,000 dollars to repair. He In
thought this account and thi present were* U
at variance. He wi<h;d the Secretary x>f ■-
War had said (and if he meant to have gi- al
gen information to the House, he ought to si
have said it) how many men were hi this re- 01
gimeut; because, if it were full, 55° al td- fc
lerifts would be oa the Western frontiers, f{
which he could not believe were neeeffiiry.- b
He believed the truth was, the regiment was "
not more thaa two-thirds full. Mr. N. de- t;
nied that our eftablifhihent' would be less by ii
1132 men, if this corps wafc kidded ; for tho'
the establishment had appeared larger pn r
paper, it had never, in faft", exceeded 3,000, u
or 3500 men. He believed there had not h
been any a£tual reduction of men. Nor c
did he believe the gentleman from- Penlifyl- p
vania was far wrong when he estimated the u
proposed new regiment at an expence of tl
400,000 dollars per year, as the constant £1
annual expence of the establishment was
from 12 to 1500,000 dollars. When mean
fures of this kind were proposed, they were d
persuaded they would colt nothing, but o
when they were gone into, the expence was r
found continually to i'nereafe. He hoped b
they should not go into a Committee of the t
whole. , h
Mr. Brookes thought it was firft neceffa- n
ry to enquire whether these additional men n
were necessary. He thought the vote of t
yesterday conveyed some "idea of danger, f
and if defence was neceffary,lt mull be al- c
lowed that forts without artillcrifts would n
do no good; but gentlemen seemed to go • t
upon an idea'that there was no danger. lls v
thought differently, and he believed a majo- t
rity of the House thought so. He denied v
that militia-men would be proper to be pla
ced in these fortifications, and allied gentle- a
men how they v could answer to their con Iti- t
tuents, if they went away without doing 1
any thing, and an attack should be made up- r
on our coast ? He thought nothing had tar
ken place in Europe which placed us in a
better fitu3tion ; but that we, on the con- a
trary, should be doubly vigilant. He truft-. t
!ed they should not be lulled 40 sleep by fair c
; representations. He was for going into a t
! Committee of the whole. . i
| Mr. Varnum supposed the gentleman last t
jup had received some new information, since 1
!he put his negative to the i>ill providing for 1
the fortifying of ourports. What that in- i
I formation might be, he' could not tell—He 1
had received none. The gentleman from 1
! S. Carolina had indeed rftid some papers t
! giving an account of a murder on the- si on- 1
j tier by the Indians, and of.a woman firing 1
' at them. But was this a fuificient reason for t
; raising a frefh regiment of artillerists ? He 1
believed not ; they sometimes heard of mur- <
! ders among civilized people ; and therewere <
modes of punishment, without the aid of mi- i
, litary force. He believed when the present
j regiment of artillerists was fall, there, would
be men fufficient for every pvrpofe. The 1
! measures of gentlemen Mr. V. said, went
) to a deftru&ion of national credit, by pufh
j tug every expensive objtjft they could lay.
j hold of. The United States had pledged
themselves to make good engagements at
certain periods ; he thought these should be
firft fatisSed, aad then, if there were any
surplus, gentleman might, perhaps, be in
dulged in a favorite measure. If indeed,
there was any foundation for what had jfal
len from the gentleman from Connecticut,"
that we were on the eve of a war. then, in
stead of 900, it would be necessary to raise
150,000 men ; or if we were to declare war
upon France, in cafe she did certain things".
1 He did not, however, believe that gentle
man's do&rine.
It was time, Mr. V. said, that the fenfr
. of the people should be exprefTed to the
President of the United States, in favor of
■ peace, that no irritable measures might be
: taken. He did not believe there was any
1 danger of war,except from provocative mea
sures on our part. (The Speaker spoke to
, order.) Mr. V. concluded with fayftig he
1 hoped the bill would not be committed.
Mr. M'Do vel l^vas against going into
, a committee of the whole, because additions!
I men were unnecessary for the peace eftablifh
> ment, and if war was contemplated, they
> would be wholly inadequate. Militia, he
r said, were the proper defence of this coun
-3 try, and deprecated the idea of a Handing
1 army which was the sonftant attendant upon
- despotic governments.
: Mr. Harper said, if the bill were to be
s reje&ed, he thought it ought firft to under
- go a difcufiion in a committee of the whole.
: Did the gentleman from Pennsylvania shrink
from an examination of the principles of this
e bill ? Or was it because he was unwilling
t his negative should stand against it! If he
1 were not, he thought he ought not to en
e deavour by a fide-wind to throw it out.—*
y Why, said Mr- H. was the bill pasTed for
i fortifying the ports of the United States,
e if men were not to be put into them ? They
, would be useless, and their conduft would
> appear ludicrous and absurd. He could ac
; count for this mode of aftiirg in gentlemen
who had determined to do nothing for the
1- defence of the country ; but for gentlemen
r who voted for fortifying, he could not dif
e cover their consistency in being opposed to
n this measure.
y Gentlemej cou'd not be serious hi sup
- posing that the liberty of this country Would
y be endangered by 900 additional men". In
1- expreffmg an opinion of this kind, they
y shewed a low opinion of their constituents.
:. Gentlemen had frequently argued as if we
g were to hold our liberties at the will of the
o French nation, but he could not have fup
o posed they would have exprefTed a fear of
n this kind*
y But if there-were danger, gentlemen said
1- the measure would not be effectual. It could
.v not be supposed tliat these men "were to pro
test the country against invasion ; no, they
w«r« to prote& our tea-ports again it the at
tacks ot" privateers and: pirater. Some gen
tlemen fay appearances are tlattetiilg, and
there is no appreheniTon ot danger. The
gentleman from Maffachufctts said we were
threatened witn war, and fubiniffidii could
only fecnrfr.us in peace ; so that we were to
hy ourfelvps at the mercy of an offended fo
teigrter t ,and fay, " Wehave been very wr-ong,'
and beg you will spare us." He attributed
all this to a wiifh to prevent measures of de
fence from being taken ; for in one way or
other, every defen'fi've operation was opptv
fed. On the. contrary, he wished t6 shew a
spirit to repel the injuries we had received,
by putting inns into our hands, and frying,
" We mean to do juffice, but to repel at
tack," nor could he fee any ciufe of offence
in a condu£t of this kind.
Mr. Shepard said, if thete man\tere not
railed, many of the fortifications would be
, useless, and denied that putting our fortVarid
harbors in a ft ate of defence, coa'.d give juit
cause of offeiice to the French. He said the
plan of fortifications was originally laid out
upon too large a scale, and would not allow
that militia could be used to advantage in
fortifications,
Mr. G.'les did not believe that these
men were raised with a view to any present
danger, but that advantage had been taken
of this season of alarm to increase our milita
ry establishment; he was therefore against it,
because he believed the present eftablifliment
too large by one half. "Gentlemen, he said,
had been charged with taking humiliating
measures ; but he thought it was more hu
miliating to tike a measure of this kind, on
the ground of danger, than to oppose it,
from a conviAiOn that it was meant to in
create the peace establishment. The gentle
man last up spoke like a hero ; he truftad
• they should all aft like heroes when danger
was at hand ; but at the distance he now
thought it, he saw no use iu the gentleman's
vaunting.
If this bill parted, he said, there wo\il<fbc
a necessity for going into a fyftenj of taxa
tion, The 115,000 dollars voted yesterday,
he believed, might be got ont of the present
revenue ; but if they went any further, taxes
must be laid to meet the expense.
Mr. Dana said, the question was whether
any part of the bill before them was proper
to be adopted. He thought as it was a bill
of an important nature, and being sent to
them, by the Senate, they should at lea ft go
into a discussion of it. It had been said
this measure was intended for a peace estab
lishment ; if it were pfoper for a peace estab
lishment, it could not be less proper for us
in our present fituatidn. But it was said to
be inadequate to resist the attacks of a fo
reign nation ; so that gentlemen would have
no force, except an" efficient one; He be
lieved we had not more aftillfery'in our re
volutionary war 1 ,. than we should have, if
this regiment is raised; and as, the gentleman
had given no reafoa why he thought half
our present eftahlHfiment" would be fuffici
ent, he.'would excuse him if he thought dif
ferently.
Ms. D. did not think the gentleman from
Pennsylvania was warranted in his expecta
tions from the present situation of . Europe.
He thought the refufal to honor American
paflports was alarming.
Mr. Ki'ttera said when they' firft met,
it was pretty generally believed that it was
necessary to put the country in a state of de
fence. This bill went He had
two reaforis' for wishing the measure to be ,
difcuffcd ; one was, because the President
1 had recommended it ; the other, because
the Senate had thought the business fuffici
ently important to pass a bill upon it.
Mr. S' Sjfli.TH had not determined how
he should vote upon this question. The
. present corps of artillery, he said, was raised
when the country was threatened by Great--
. Britain, when the Indians were at war with
us, and when the governor of Canada had
given us reaibn to expeft a war. It was
then thought necessary to erett fortifications,
, and an add tional regiment of artillery was
raised to what wa3 already in being, which
made a corps of 990 men. These weretho't
( fufficient. Since that time peace had been
a made with the Indians, and we had got
possession of the posts from the British. These
) required a few artillerists. He wished the
j secretary at war to fiiew how many men
were stationed at each of the posts. He
believed the number of men which was said
[ to be cn'thc Atlantic frontier was fufficient
to guard the forts, were always
excused from labor. It had been said mi-
J .litia coutd nyt be employed, because unfkil
le9 in the business, but he said the laborious
„ part of artillery could be taught in a few
days. For want of the information lie had
alluded to, he was a little at a loss in the bu-
finefs ; but when the late President (a milita
s ry man) had thought the present artillery
fufficient for that season, he could not help
believing they were so for the pijfent time.
With respect to American pflßorts being
annulled by France. There were vessels
r passing from different parts with couifterfeit
. paftports, which,-by mistake, some cf our
' own- coiifuls might have countersigned. It
,] did not relate to sea letters fr6m this coun
> - tr y- .
n An argument of the gentleman from S.
e Carolina (Mr. Harper) was conclusive with
n him for not wishing to go into this fubjeft.
(- He stated there was only a surplus of 30
o „ or 40,000 dollars of revenue (though he
was of a different opinion) and this obje£t
would require at least 500,000 dollars.
d Mr. Gallatin said, when he brought
n this motion before .the Koufe, it was not, as
y had been stated, to get rid <>f the fubjeft by
s. a fide wind. They hod been three day 6 up
'e on a bill, oi small importance when compared
ie with this, in proposing and reje&ing amend
)- and he thought it would save time to
jf -determine at once upon the principle of this
bill. He juftified the measure as parliaiften
d tnry. If he could have conceived, it would
Id have occafioried so long a debate, he believed
3- however he should not have made it; and if
j there was any one fr.an ju the Hoyfe whowouid fay he had not ir.cde uj> jiis'inind an
the fubjeft, he-would withdraw his motion.
In relation to the principle of the biH. It
had obferved that lie had said yefterdiy
that if the iij,ood dollars were agreed to,
this bill hiuft also be agreed to. It was true
he had read the letter of the secretary of
war On the fvibjett, and predicted, that if
thai sum was agreed to, it would be brought
as an argument for agreeing to additional
artillery ; and the event shewed that he was
tight
With refpeft to our prsfent situation from
the-late tranfa&ions in Europe, he (hould
fay nothing. It was mere matter of opiuion
which operated differently on 'different minds
acceding to their habits of thinking, or
p«rhaps their prejudices.- Nothing could
astonish him in this refpjft, after what he hat!
heard ip that Hoirfe.
Granting, iiowever, the danger to Be
possible, whidn he did, he would'afk whether
the prefer.t measure was calculated to repel
the danger ? He believed not ; but on the
-contrary, that it was calculated to weaken
the union. The danger apprehended was
war ; but he did not believe "that those who
feared war, e:;petted an invasion ; and if not,
the present measure was not calculated to
meet-the danger. To defend the sea coast,
tlie inhabitants nuift man their forts, and up
on their own exertions their fafety must de-«
pend. He supposed, if war was made upon
• Its, it wqnld be in that part in which we
" were vulnerable, and not ia that in which we
were invulnerable. The attacks of anv so-
reign power would be upon our trade. The
United States were impregnable to the at
tack of any foreign nation ; they had ten or
fifteen years ago refilled, those of a more
powerful nation, with refpeft to naval force,
than the one about which we were now a-
lanned ; when-the population was much
less, and much left compact, and when the
government was very imperfeil. He there
fore looked upon any fear of an invasion as
grourtdlefs ; and if there were attacks upon
our commerce which were apprehended, a
nevf regiment of artillery could have no ef
• feft. The operation of such attacks would
fall upon our merchants and upon our reve
nue. Every additional expense, therefore,
not calculated to repel the danger, will di
minish our means for repelling it in the pro
per way, which would be by means of fri
gates, gallies, and vessels of every descrip
tion.
He believed, with the g?ntlenvMi from
Virginia, that this was not a war measure,
but merely an attempt to -increase the army
eftabliihment, which had always been a fa
vorite objeft with those gentlemen who seem
ed to flaisn an exclusive right of supporting
government ; and yet he knew of nothing
which weakened it more. He was not afraid
of troops impairing the liberty of the people
of the United States ; but he believed no
thing tended more to weaken the hands of
government-than the want of woney, and
nothing consumed To much of it as lair*
litary establishments. That the secretary at
war fliouW \vflh to l'ncreafethe establishment,
he did not much wonder at; it was natural
that he fhoujd do so ; but his opinion ought
not to guide them. -Mr. G. concluded by
faying, that if it were necessary to have this
additional number of men for the purpose of
having them trained in the artillery business,
he had no obje&ion, if the fame number was
lopped off the infantry.
rift *• * * "
Mr. Allen said he should avail himfelf
of the liberty the gentleman last up had of
fered ; for he owned he was not ready to
vote upon the question. He wifyed to have
some information from the War Depart
ment, which he would move for, if the mo
tion were withdrawn.
Mr. Gallatin withdrew his motion,
Mr. Allen propo r edthe following reso
lution, which was agreed to, after feme few
observations.
" Resolved that the Secretary ofthe War
Department be direfted to lay this
House an account of the number of artille
rists in adtual service, and of the posts aiid
places at which they are ftat'ioned."
Adjourned.
Saturday, June 17.
Mr. Parker, from the Coramitteee ap
pointed to report a bill refpe&ing the man
ning of the Frigates, laid before the House
Certain documents which they had received
from the War Department, which were or
dered to be printed.
A bill was reported forbidding citizens
jf the United States from entering into
the ftrvice of any foreign Prince or State ■
in state of War, which was read twice and
committed to a Committee of the whole on
Monday.
Mr. W. Smith, from the Committee
of Ways and Means, reported a bill for
laying a Stamp duty on Vellum, Parch
ment, and Paper,' viz.
For a licence to praftife as a Counsellor,
Attorney, &c. five dollars. '
For every grant of letters patent, Four
dollars.
For every exemplification or certified co
py of ditto, Two dollars.
For every receipt of discharge for any le
gacy of 50 dollars, and not more than 100
dollars, 25 cents; above "100 and not
more than 500 dollars, 50 cents; and for
every additional 500 dollars, one dollar-;
but not to extend to the legacies left to a
wife, children, or grand children.
For every 'policy of insurance of vefiels or
goods from one Diftrift of the United
States to another, 25 cents.
For every such policy of insurance to a
Foreign port, for a sum not exceeding 500
dollars, 25 cents; if it exceed 500 dollars,
one dollar.
For any exemplication of what nature so
ever, JO cents.
For every bond, bill or note (except the
notes of the chartered banks which may
be now or hereafter in exigence) not
exceeding 100 dollars, .10 dents; above
ico dollars and not exceeding 500 dol
lars, 25 cents; above 500 dollars and not
exceeding 1 coo dollars, 50 cents-; above
1 eoo 4 dollars, 75 cents* (If payable
within 60 days, tuey trill be chatgeabie
with'ofily'two-fifrhs of these duties.)
For every protefl of 3 note, 25 cents.
For every letter of Attorney, 2 J cents.
For every certificate •or debenture for
drawing back any duty on the re-(hiping
of goods, one dollar. For every note,
or bill of lading, for goods from one dif
tiicl to another within the United States
(not in the fame itate) ic cent'.
For ditto to a Foreign port, 25 lents,
For every inventory or catalogue of fur
niture, goods, or effefts, in any cafe re
quired by law (except in the cafe of
a dii'craining_ for rent, or an execution)so
cents. "
For. every certificate of a fiiare or (hares in
the Bank of the United States, or other
Bank, 10 cents.
The bill was twice read, ar.d ordered to
be committed to a Committee of the Whole
on Monday,
Mr. M'Dowei.l, from the Committee
appointed for tlie pilrpofe, reported a bill di
'eftitig a detachment of the Militia of the
Jnited States, in the following'proportions :
750
1510
4530
755°
1510
H340
6040
15°
9810
3770
7550
1510
5280
1510
0,570
3020
Teneflee
Georgia
South-Carolina
North-Carolina
Kentucky
Virginia
Maryland
Delaware
Pennsylvania
New-Jersey
New-York
Vermont
Connnefticut
Rhode-Island
Maflachufetts
Nr.vhampfhire
Total 80.000
The bill was twice read, and committed
So a Committee of the whole on Monday.
Mr. Blount wished the House to go in
to a Committee of the whole on the state
of the Union, upon the resolution which he
laid upon the table some days ago, authori
sing the President to purchase a certain
quantity of arms.
Mr. W. Smith suggested the propriety
of referring the matter to a Seleft Commit
tee, as there might be matter connected
with the enquiry made, which might not be
proper to be made public ; an «n quiry ref
pefting the quantity of arms in pofleflion of
the United States, and where lodged, was
somewhat of a delicate nature. *lf it was
referred to a Select Committee, they could
determine apon the propriety of making the
fubjeft public.
It was agreed to be referred to a Com
mittee, and a Committee of Five was accor
dingly appointed.
Mr. Harerp laid two resolutions upon
the table to .the following effect:
" R'fohied, provision ought to be
make to authorize the Prefldent of thf> Uni
ted States to fix upon a proper place as a
fcite for a Naval Yard for the use of the
United States."
" Resolved, That provision ought to be
made sot enabling the President of the .U.
States to secure a proper quantity of live
oak for. the purposes of ship-building, with
the upon which the fame is growing."
Oji motion of Mr. CoiT the hoale'went into
committee of the whole on the bill relirifling
the regifterin'j of vefTets, in cases where fhey
hive been tfken and purchased into the U.S.
by others than the former owners. The com
mittee reported the bill without amendment,
and it was ordered to be engrossed for a third
reading. It-afterwards received its third read
ing and pal Ted.
On motion of Mr. Nicholas, the house
went i«to a committee of the whole on the bill
for appointing agents, under the direction of
ihe attorney general, for aflifting to carry into
efledl the 6th article of-the British treaty, -with
re<pe<s to the Biitifli oebts. A good'deal of
convet&tion took place a* to the nature -of these
agents, the mannei in which they should a<£),
and what would be a proper compensation for
them At length it was agreed that the blank
for a sum to enable the Prefidentto appsint such
agents as he (hould fee necessary, ftiould be fill
ed up with io,oco dollars ; that for a fa ary for
the principal agent to reside at Philadelphia,
2oeo dollars ; and an additional salary to the
attorney general, on account of the extra bufi
nefe whieh this concern would lay upDn him.
The csmroittee rose, the house agreed to the
amendments, and ordered the bill to Le engrofP
ed for a third reading on Monday.
Mr. W. Smith, from the committeee of
Ways aud Means, reported the following refo
lutioa, viz.
" Resolved that there be laid on Salt import
ed into the Uaited States, an additional duty of
thirteen cents pef- bushel."
The resolution was twice read, and upon the
for committee of the whole being put,
it was carried, there being 49 rotes in favor of
it. On Monday being named fqr the day on
which to mak< it the order, Mr. Macon mov
ed to make it tht order for th|r firft Monday in
November, whieh was negatived, and Monday
rtext agreed to.
Mr. Gallatin taid the following resolution
upon the table.
•! Resolved, that the President of the Senate,
and Speaker *f the House of Reprefentotives,
be authorised to elofe the present session, by ad
journing their rtfpectiae houses on the 24th of
this month.
WILLIAM SANSOM,
HAS removed his Counting lioufe to No. 96
Arch Street.
He has remaining on ham) of the Cargo of the
Ship Pigou,
A few Bale? long Nankeens
ditto fliojt ditto- . «
A few CheiU Imperial Tea
tjittii Young-Hyfun dicta .
Which will he fold Cheap'on a liberal Credii
in order to close ihe fi!e».
June 19
Imported in tbe ship Pigou,
And for sale by John Mortoo, No. i!6,Souti
Front ftreer,
Hyson
Hyson Skin CtF
Young Hyson (
Jfrptriil J
Ap'il 20.
%\)t. @cisette.
P HI LAD E £. P H. i A ,
MONDAY EVENING, June 19.
PiJiOJpce,—Philadelphia June 16th, 1797
' LETTERS for the British Packet Car
teret, will be received at this Office until
Tuesday the 20th in it. at 12 o'clock, noon.
N. B. Inland poltage mult be paid to
New York.
ExtrnFn frnm I.evJen Gmzt/cs,
PARIS, January 26.
Tile Curate of Saint Jacques officiated lafl
Thursday in his parish with all that decency
and calmness which the good ministers of
the Catholic religion know how to maintain
wherever they are heard. At the hour
when the Dominc fal-vum sac Re gem (God
preserve the King) is sung, one of the crowd
thundered out this verse with alltheftrength
of lungs he was master of. The people re
mained silent and amazed. The Curate
immediately ordered the Church doors to be
{hut, sent for a commifiary and afllftants, as
cended the pulpit, preached union, peace,
and above all obedience to the laws ; decla
red that the person who sung Dominc falvum
sac Regem mull be an enemy to the public
good and mentioned themeafufes he had ta
ken to be certain of it. He was heard peace
ably. The commilfary arrived with an arm
ed force and search was made for the guilty
person ; he was as length discovered.
But who was it > One of the members
of the Revolutionary Committee of the feeti
on ! The fadl is atteiled.
WARSAW, March 15
Ext raft of a letter.
" The line of demarcation of the shares,
which Austria and Prufiia acquired, of Po
land by the last difmembermentrr>f that king
dom is at lerfgth drawn." It commences
near Gorzow in the Palatinate of Cracow on
the frontiers of Upper Silesia and of ancient
'Gallicia, and extends to the small town of
Niemirow on the right bank of the river
Bug."
The Batavian National Aflembly, has,
after a very warm discussion during two fit
tings, decided the important question con
cerning the mode of accepting the future
Constitution ; viz, " Whether this accept
" ance (hould be by each Province as fove
" reign until it (hall have received the prin
" ciple of unity by the acceptance of the
" Constitution. 2d. Whether the majority
" of the Provinces should give laws to those
" which should refufe. 3d. Whether
" the result should be taken by polls or by
"*a Primary AfTembly." The 6rft was de
termined in the affirmative: Many members
having refufed to vote on the second, it was
Jooided in the negative by 53 against one.—
The deterrrunaiicii. on tj le third was that
the result shall be taken by "polls.
The afiembly has also decided the ques
tion " whether there shall be two brandies
of the Legislature" in the affirmative by -a
majority of 86 to 16. One of the branches
is called the Grand Chambre, the other the
Chambre des Anclctu,
The lieutenant General Cravina has. just
arrived here to take the command of the na
val Forces. Orders have been given to
viftual the Fleet again and to have it ready
to fail in fifteen days.
A Council of War will be held immediate
ly to try Don Joseph de Cordova, as well
as all the general officers under 1113 orders ;
who are accused of not having fecon4ed his
efforts.
Our troops have repoffefled thcmfelves of
Brixen. »Yesterday the following official ac
count was published in this capital:—"
The joyful news arrives here this morrvnt,
that Ficld-Marfhal Lieutenant Baron Ker
pen, re-occupied Brixen on the 6th inft.
and that the enemy are making a precipitate
retreat through the Puller valley. They
are said to have fallen back as far as Brun
ecken. The above Field Marlhal Lieuten
ant has advanced with his whole corps, and
formed a junftion with General Laudon;
and his advanced posts are at Muhlbach.
Under these circumstances, we may hope
that by some farther fortunate events the
country of Tyrol will be rescued from the
French invasion.
Infpruck, the 'Jiltojgdpril, 1797-
Signed qgsunt Lehrbac h,
Aulic CommifTat*y to his Imperial and
Royal Majefly.
z The Spanish ambassador here had two ex
traordinary conferences with tlje Ministry
and the Emperor, and on the 4th instant a
Courier was lent off with dispatches to Balle,
Paris, and Madrid. It is now believed
that the King of Spain will a<s the part of a
mediator between the Emperor and France.
Adjourned.
FALMOUTH, April 21,
This day failed Sir Edward Pellew's
fquardron, on a cruize on the coast. of
France.
Arrived a lugger from Sir John Warren,
who is off Brest. The difpatchcs for the Ad
miralty were immediately sent off by ex
press.
from Canton,
The the Seamen's pay, in
confeqneoec of their late Pi tition, will amount
annually to an increafc: ot half a million ster
ling.
d 3t.
OF the Pennfylupnia Population Cr.mpany,
are requested to meet at the Company's
Office, No. 53, North Fourth Street, on
Thursday the 25th instant.
By order of the Board.
Solomon Sec'ry.
June 19. df29th.
>eotf
LEYDEN, March 16,
CADIZ, March 16,
From, a London paper.
INSPRUCK, April 8. .
The Shareholders
WALPOLE, (N. H.) June
SU M M ART.
The Auftrians have been defeated on the
Piate, and the Chronicle " fvvears that
to the best of its knowledge and belief" the
Archduke Charles is routed. When French
Editors are thus ppfitive, a little scepticism
maybe allowed it: the condu&or of A
mer'can. paper Buonaparte, threatening
the Venetians with hostility, has been ap
peased by a million of Zechins. Both in his
anger and clemency he resembles antient
Pistol in the scene witli his Frenchprifoner,
"• My rage it (hall abate, and I the .crown s
will take." Jn these scarce times money
quells French paflions better than a page
from Seneca, on anger.
INCIDENTS AT HOME
The Senate of the United {States }, ave
presented an answer to the Speech of the
Prnfident. It is exprefiive of natiortah'ty,
and of high confidence in the talents and vir
tue of our firlt officer. The house have re
ported an answer ; which, in the usual way
has originated much debate. Mr. Nicholas
has made a luke-warm proposition, calcula
ted by smooth words to filter away the eu
ergy, with which the Representatives have
exprefTedthemfelves.ontliefubjeft of France.
Mr, Smith, from So'jth Carolina', with his
usual acutenefs, and spirit of federalifm, and
Meflrs. Otis and Rutledge, with clafiical e
loquence, advocated the reported reply.—
The abilities of Meflrs. Harper and Grif
wold were likewise displayed on the fame
and right fide. The reported answer is m
theclofe stile of Tacitus, and in in more
than one particular, Roman. Its tone is
high, and indignation is with the ftrifteft pro
priety, the word employed to express the
feelings of our political guardians, on the
fubjeft of French aggression. It is said,
that Tom Paine, the modern Jack Cade,
wrote, before he left Pari*3, another little
book again! the French coßftitution as not
fufficiently democratic.
A gentleman, reading in one of the daily
prints that thirteen hundred of the French
had been drowned, said, " Thus (houM the
courage of all our enemies be damped.'"
By this day's Mail.
June
THE Public- are refpeiSLfully informed that the
Evenings -Amusement of the Gardens for thi»
The Hen. Pelcg Coffin,|Efq. was yefterdav chof- ! wctk tire arranged for
en by the Legislature, Treasurer of this State— j THIS PRESENT EVENING, Moit-
The votes were 1j0—76 making a ch 9 ice. On ! r - f >
the firft trial he had 81 and was rhofen. I . ~ „ ',» ' •
We learn, that his Excellency the Corner has j " ft ' and Frida y» Ms • . .
nominated the Hon. The.philus Bradbury, as' . N ,V y *
Judge of the Supreme Judicial Court. ; that the Tavern and Gardens will b« publicly open
Judge Dana, we learn has received his commif- , '° r S C . n " al admiffi ° n on Thursdays at/d
fion; and is prcparingfor his voyage. j at , ur . J s ' , , . c , ,
The Frigate C.*JliL«., buildin|here, willb. a- , » Sunday, admittance, one quarter of adol
float on the second week in August. She has up- ]"'■ which CS ' ,^ S the P crfon t0 lU Talue in wme, >
wards of *OO hands conlfantly at work on her; and ° r re re , m ?'!j% . . , •
such is the forwardnefs 61 her malts, fails, rigging, P'nners dress d for partus at a day s hotice
&c. that there is not the lead doubt, if (he is r— —————————————
wanted, but that she will be the firft r?ady for ac-
Rumour, y\s^Marblebead % that the French Coun- ' ~~ * , . .
cil as 500, has ordered Barney's American flag to i r I 'O-MORROW, Tuesday aoth instant, for th«
be taken down from the walls of their hall! It will j Benefit of Miss VANICE, will be performed,
be remembered that the flag in question was never a Grand Display of Horfemanfliip, with several a
prefented by the American government. floiiifhing Tricks, of which particular! will be pr-
The Virginia papers fay that Mr. Marfliall has en ' nt ' lc 'he day.
accepted of his appointment as envoy to France. \ The evening s, entertainment to conclude by 'jii*
The Rev. Mr Urvil nf MUJbown. is chofin representation of a new Pantomiiie, called
Gilhop of the rroteflant Episcopal church m the ' ITaTIWJUIiI Jtrni ncyilxdH Dcjlfilt_
State of Conneflittit, the Rev. Mr. Bowdenhavmg Or, The Manager in Traulle.
declined accepting the appointment. _
x,™, , 1 Great Philolophical & Mechanical
NEW-YORK, June 17. „ r .
Thursday evening in Augulus-ftreet, a Mill, j
whoA. name we have not learnt, cut his throat He ! To be executed on every Monday, Wednesday,
i« (aid to have been lately disordered irt his senses, and Fiiday, at eight o'clock in the Evening, at Mr.
and it is fuppnfed from some of hi» frantic exprefli- M'Dougalls Dancing Room in fourth street, be
on«, and tht time he chose to execute his purpose, »ween,Cnefnut and Walriut^treets
that the violentjtorm and thunder had a sudden and
fatal influence upon his mind already deranged.
Same evening, a negro man was apprehended in
the acl of letting fire to a back building in Murray
street, near Warren street,
watch-house
On Wednesday last was founij drifted oil Gover
nors liland, a middle aged mau, who appeared to
have been some time since drowntd—his coat and
Waillcoat resembled a sailors—he had on black fat
tin breeches, with overalls, two pair of (ilk and
cotton (lockings', v.i' h good (hoes tied with (! rings.
On the itt of May laO, a detachment of the [j.
States troops conimcncccTat the garrif.>n of Niagara
the cutting and making the road from thence to the
Genneffte river. The number employed is such as
promises a fpcedy completion of that very dafirable
objefl. Another detachment marched
day for FortSiaul'er, at which place they arc to do
garrifpn duty. Weftfrn Cer.tinel.
ARRIVED.
Sh'pMary, Derry.
Brig Resolution, ,
SAVANNAH, June 2
Arrived, onTuefday last, sloop Larker,
capt. Robert Lightborn, from New Pro
vidence, who informs; that the day previous
to Yiis failing, a Spanish prize arrived there
which bro't positive news of Penfacola be
ing taken by the English. He also informs,
that an American vessel arrived there which
reported that an English frigate of 36 guns,
and a Spanish of 44 had a severe engage
ment, and that the latter struck to the En
glish with the loss of 144 men killed.
Yesterday arrived fchr. New Adventure,
capt. Samuel Lightburn, 4 days from Netv
Providence, who mentions that a schooner
had been brought in there under American
colours, with 11,000 dollars in specie on
board.
The following authentic information is re
ceived by captain Cooke, from a corref
pondant at St. Mary's.
Tgiun of St. Mary's, in Georgia,
May, 17-97.
Yesterday, returned to' nis place, James
Seagrove, Esq. commifiioner from thfi Uni
ted States of America, to the government of
Florida; and Thomas King, Esq. agentfrom
the state of Georgia. These gentlemen have
been at St. Augustine, for a month past,
during which time an agreement took place
for an exchange of all fugitive Haves from the
United States, or his Catholic majesty's pro
vince of East Florida, from the 2d Septem
ber, 1790, until the 19th instant. All fu
gitives, prior to the 2d of September, 1790,
remain to be fettled by the king of Spain
| and the United States.
It is with pleasure we inform, from un
doubted authority, that Mr. Seagrove has
entered fnto a treaty wk?i tiie SpSnifh go
vernment, whereby a total ftcja is put fci* aIL
fugitive slaves, or servants, being people of
colour, ftom' receiving countenance or pro
tection'in Florida. Should any fucli people,
go there, on being diil'overed, they, will be
thrown into priion,.until demanded "by their
owners, when they will be delivered upV
This Treaty, we are informed, extends to
Horses, Cattle, and all other property, that
Inay llray or be stolen, and be taken intci
Florida, are to be returned without delay or
expeuce. The United States are recipro
cally bound to t'l ■ Spanish Government, so
soon as the Prefidcnt and Senate' of' the:
fame, {hall approve and" ratify this Treaty.
" Twenty-fiven of* the American Fugitive
Slaves -were brought to this place on the
22d inft. in the (]oop Harriet, Capt.' Cooke
from St. Auguflsrie, well secured in irons.
They are now fafely lodged in the new pri
son in this town, until proof be made by their
owners. Eleven runaways are left in prison
in St. Augustine, as hostages for the return
of an equal number now detained in Geor
gia, belonging to Spanish fubje&s. A lift of
the negroet delivered up, will be forwarded
to be publiflied. _ The commiflioncrs speak
in high terms, of the polite treatment they
experienced froiti Governor White, as well
as from Gentlemen ir.ciiv 'duals. There ap
peared a great def're in the government and
many of the fubjefts to have these runaway's
sent back, as they had become so great a
nuifarice to 'that country, that molt of them
were chained, and at work among the con
vifts.
Yesterday arrived here, Em an Oil R.en
gil, Catholic Mvjefty'3 Vice Con
sul, for tho dates of North Carolina, South
Carolina and Georgia. Thl9 gentleman was
late Secretrry of the province of Eait Flo
rida, and we are informed, intends residing;
jo this city.
Ship Rebecka, M'Ever, St. Croix 24
Sloop Friendship, Bifchday, Sea Brook 5
Schr. Ann, Hall, St. Domingo 16
1 he lorce of Hercul<*j is surpassed by artificial
Men.
The pdrfe<flion of natm al philoiophy by an arti
ficial Lady.
He was taken to the
Jier pllilofophic experiments by firing the cannon of
Volt*. ' "
bhe will melt metal by her fiery breath after
wards circft the electric fire cn a small House, and
deftroyit. .
Sh-; will blow out of her mouth flilhen of fire
tc;-:vi'.t,:in;; flaming fiars, and finally conclude
the experiment by furprifmg feats, by a fingfe
plftollhot, foe will kill a bird perching in front of
the theatre,
June 19;
PURSUANT ta an Order from the Orphans* Court,
•will alfilutelx be fold at PUBLTC SALE) at
Cranberry, on IVednefday, tie &$d day of Augufl next, at
II o dock, A JVf, all that valuable REAL ESTATE,
I etc belonging to the Rev. Gilbert T. Snowden, deceifed,
ly'fri? in and near Cranberry, iu the county of Middlesex %
to wnjhip of South Brunfwick, date of Neiv Jersey, up
on t'je lower flagc road leading from Philadelphia to New
Tori. A very elegant framehcufe in a beautiful and
healthy foliation* pair.tej white, with Venetian window
fhutrersy thirty fvet front at d thirty eight feet de?p y two
rooms iv',th a hundfovie hall or entry on the firjl floor,
three rooms 6n the feeond floor and two weL-finijhed gar
rets. In the rear of the bouse is an excellent two-flory
building 37 feet by 19* confiding of a dming-rocm for
work people 1 fpacinus pantries and a large kitchen, with
every convenience, and over these are three chambers for
servants. To the right is an additional building 18 fait
front by 19 feet deep, conjifiing of a chamber below and a
library above—under the whole are very fine cellars paved
with brick and conveniently partitioned. The house is en
tirely new, built in * modern flyle, and completely and e~
legant'.y f.nifhed. Every room is hung with bells that
lead both to the kitchen and the servants * apartments : there
is a pump of good water in the y.ird; and a flotie and
brick pavement round the whole house, which is encfof
ed -with a handsome railing, with three jrqtcs in front•
The farm cdnftjls of one hundred and sixty seven acres
with a proportion of woodland and meadow, under excel
lent fence ; a garden ivith pale fence ; a large barn, Jla~
Me:, tarridge-hoitfe, cow-bwfes, IZfc. all nnu, and built
in the bcfl manner : 'with two Orchards, one of 60 full
grown trees, the other is young and thriving, wfijling of
200 beji grafted fruit trees.
Nearly adjoining faui farm is a lot of Woodland >
of the bcfl qualityj containing 37 acres. Alfa a tra£i of
I ind within seven v ties of Cranberry, and los the Cross
Hoidi, containing tne hui dred and ffty act es> t jree-fourths
meadow and the red excJ'eit timber.
Days.
Dublin 70
Bonaviila
This Trail will be fold in lots qrt Thursday, tie 24th
day of Augitf folUwingy at II o'i loci, A JVI, on the
I premfet if the it e 4br. permits, if not at the bocfeuf
' Mr. H^itherlll t Grass Reads.
For further particulars enquire of Nathaniel Hunt, efq»
C an er y, of JMLr. fsac Snowden yjun, No. 541 «*• ttb
Second Sireety Philadelphia, or of Air' Cbatf.-s Snowt/en
Tontine Cofoe-Roufe, New Tori', or of thefulf.rihrs.
ISAAC SNOlVDEN t Prinee.'on"> ff
JACOB FISHER, Cmtrrry $
NB. Phi ffle of tht above property was aavertixed
for the 14th infl. but the Adminifl rotors were not able tQ
>jei the two separate TraSls Lid ont y with Lots and other
v.ittt- s crri.ri£?d t on account of the indifpifition of one of
th;m t it was therefore adjourned to the days above mention*
cd. yw 19*
Port of Philadelphia.
■ARKIVFO
Buih Hill.
Lailson's Circus,
Tfaif adroit and graceful Lady, will commence
Adve'rtifement.
DATS*
eod'jt.Lanzafter, Harrijburgh, Car life,
Shtppenjburg and Sudbury
STAGES,
h
THE pu'olic are rcqu-fted to take notice, that
the partnership which has for Jorne tine sub-
Jiitfd betweon Mathias Slei'gh of Lancaster, and
Wiiliam Geer, is now diifolved: but, not as M.
Slough infinuate&to the public without just catife ;
a? will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je6t from M. Slough to W. Gerr, dated the 29th
December tail, a recital of which is sot now dcen
:ed uecefiary. Auy gentleman who wilhes to be
more circnmftanrially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Gcir >nzy have
the perusal ®f M. Slouch's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfe&ly jttftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the profecutiqn of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from the liberal and generous support thf
public were pleased to confer 011 the firll effort in
this btifinels, Vf illiam Geer, in conjunction with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witnier, is determined
to prolecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and iifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can pofii'bly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided ]
With carriage?, Wfes, and every appurtenance to
tender the paflage Safe and commodious, inform
thof» wno wifli to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their leats at
George Weed's, the flgn of tha White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to l.ancafter, Harrift>ur£,
Carlisle and Shipperiburg. The fare as hitherto
eilablithed.
For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
oif Samuel Elder, in Harrilburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
and return from thence and arrive at Harrjiburg
every Saturday, to that passengers destined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed 041 Mon>
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
J,ancafter, Jan. 17, 1797-
M, B. This Line ©f Stages starts from th«
>.3uf« of William Fcrr«e, in Lancaftcr, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceedißg to the wcfUvard; and from the house of
kr. Samuel Elder in Hamfburg every Wednes
day morning, on rhe fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence en every Thurl'day : performing the
fcrnc routine daily awin its tour from Philadel
phia.
A Cow Stolen
T7 ROM the owner at the corner of Ninth
jO and Arch streets. She is a deep red
brindle with some white, about ten years
old and very gentle. The person who fe
eretes her had best turn her out, as, if legal
evidence can be obtained, he may expeft a
rjgorous prosecution. TWO DOLLARS
reward will be given to any person who will
deliver the Cow, or give such evidence a
fainft the person keeping her, that he may
e convicted of the fa£L Apply at
No. 218, AiicH Street.
Jpne 9.
NOTICE.
THE fubferiber having sent by the ship Nancy,
Capt. Perry, the following certificates of the
United States baak flock, to wit:
No. 16,0?5, to 16,014, inclusive, for three
flares each—and the said veflel having been cap
tured or. her intended voyage to England, wh ch
-*-ill mod probably occafior the loss of the said
certificate*.. fdr« this oublir nnfir
-1 rat lie lhajl apply at the proper otticJS for a re
newal of them, and tliat means have been taken
to prevent my improper .transfer.
Henry Philips,
No. ill, South Front-street.
3a\v6w
June I
For Sale,
"That well known place, called Vandigm*i's
F r R R Y,
ON Nelhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premifesarea large two story Hone house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame liable with a good threshing
.floor, and some out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a most elegant situation for a gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nelham
inyto'its junction with the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jersey fliore. It has the privilege
of one half ihe toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Subfisriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
3tawtf.
May 34
Mujical Injlrument Manufactory,
No. 167, Arch-Strcet.
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable grand,
Jid>board, pier table and square piar-o forte
tnalttr from London, returns thanks to his friends
and the public j for their liberal encouragement,
and hopes that by his assiduity and attention to ev
ery branch of his business, tomtrit a continuance
ef their favors. Piano fertes made on the newest
?.nd iroft approved plans, wi'h pedals, patent,
swell, and French harp flop, which he flatten
hiiufelf will be, found or trial by unprejudiced,
judge*, to be eqvl if not superior to any import
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inflru
I mtnt .purchased of him, if not approved of in
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kirfds of Musical mftruments made,
tuned, and repaired with the greatefl accuracy,
diffatch, and on the most reasonable terras, lcr
ready money only.
Second hind Piano Fortes taken in exchange.
May
This Day is Publiflied,
BlTMeff- Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
other Bookfcllers,
rice One Dollar and iwenty-five cents,
Elegant'y printed on IVone paper, grid Hot
prejfed,
By John Thenfpfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEWOF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with other, and with
that of the United States : exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of each Constitution, and
classing together their most impsrtant provisions,
under the several hca'ds ef administration j with
J4otes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
'L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States.
Dedicated to the People of th« United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed ou an.inferior pa
per, at 3-4ths of a
City of WaliiingtoH.
• SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement cf the Federal Ciiy. '■
A magjjiScent dollars,
ft. cafll 30jOOO» ire jo.oon
I ditto i.?,ooo & cal» 15,000
1 ditto 15,000 St ca(h 15,000
1 ditto 10,000 & ca'b 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000
1 ditto 5,000 & ca(h 5,00 c
I caih prize of
l do.
10 do.
to do.
oo do.
i.x> do
4CO do.
1,000 do.
i5»ooo do
16,739 Prizes.
33,i6l Blanks
5c,000 Tickets, it Eight Dollar*, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the tAst drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but ONI
And approved notes, securing payment in either
mousy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received foi any number not less thin 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen ef
che private buildings to be ereited in the City of
Washington—Two beautiful designs are already
lcledled for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawings it ispropofed to erect
two centre and f our corner buildings,as foonaspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to cenvey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventur«rs, in
the mannerdefcribed in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National University, to
be eiedled within the city of Washington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, arc held by the President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of CoWm
bia ; cf James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter
Gilman, Boston : of John Hspkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard W nils, Cooper's Ferry.
STICKNEY'j PATENT ARCH BRID<
ANY person desirous of information refpefl
ing this new conftruftion, may obtain it
without delay by application pr. letter, or oth
erwise, to John Stickney, merchant of Worces
ter, (Maflachufetu) who will make known
the many advantages arising from this manner
of building, and upon application he will either
vend a patent right, or attend personally to fu
perimendthe building of any bridge rtquired.
June 10, 179?' "eenw.
Now Landing,
At Pratt's wharf,
FROM on board the ship Thomas Chilkley,
Capt. Rafer, from Bourdcaux,
CLARET in casks
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
Red Skins in boxes
For Sale by
tawjw
May 15
For Sale,
AN ELEGANT AND VERY COM MO-
Three story brick House,
And Lot of Ground thereunto belonging,
IN Archj above Severn h-ftreet, being a high, plea
sant situation and good neighbourhood/ The said
House is twenty-fix feet in frout by 48 feet in depth
and a piazza twenty feet in depth, and 2 story kitchen
withpantries3> feet in depth, in the piazza there is a
commodious (lair cafe with mahogany railing, and
there is also a tack flair cafe; said house isftnifhed
in a complete and modern stile, with marWle
chimney, pieces, flucco cornices, mahogany doors,
&c. The said lot is 38 1-2 feet in bresdth, about
300 feet in depth, and has two fronts ; on said lot
is a large brick coach house and flable, well finifhed,
and plaiftered, a pump of good water in the yard,
and about the premises there are many conveniences
too tedious to enumerate*
The above property will be fold clear of all in
cumbrances, and the terms of payment made easy to
the purchaser.
JOHN ELLIOTT CRESSON,
7 une 9-
Venereal Complaints,
PUNCTUALLY attended to in every flage of
that difcafe, without the use of mercury or
restraint of diet, in any cafa recent and simple, on
application at No. 113, Cheihut-ftreet, opposite
the United States bank, or at No. 170, .South Wa
ter-llreet, between Spruce and Pine-llaeets, where
he ha» opened an office for the better accommoda
tion of his patients.
But in Lues Venerea confirmed, Doctor Morgan
pledges himfelf, that nolyllem of cure (hewever
specious) can be effectual without mercury, and
that all the known rules of practice for these two
centuries pall, and united experience affirms, that
any substitute for it is but nugatory, and any mode
of pra&ice to tbe contrary mult be futile and de
ceptions.
Nc-ve r thelefs, he undertakes, however compli
cated tfce cafe, to effe<sl a cure without inconve
nience br injury to the patient's conllitution, and
inttiem e re t generally experienced cr expe&ed.
N. B. Regular attendance at the office in Water
ftreet from the hour of nine o'clock in the morn
ing until one, and from three o'clock in the even
>ug, until seven; but any o'her time at his dwelling
house, inChefuut l'treet.
June 19
TO BE SOLD,
A valuable three story Brick House ;
SITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank ef
Pennsylvania, the lot on which it Hands, to
gether with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex
tends to Goforth-ftreei. The house is about 50
feet in front en Lodge alley, and about 41 feet
in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 feet
front on Lodge alley, and 42 feet on Goforth
ftreet, being a ftfeet which leads from Chefnut
ftreet and Carter'»*lley into Dock-llreet at the
horse market. The house confilts of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dining
rt.oms, one of them forty feet in length, the
other about thirty-four feet, each containing
two fire places, two parlours and a large kit
chen, with extenlive cellars under, and garrets
o/er the'whole, a privilege o£ a vacant lot
of ground to the eastward between this haufe
and the bank, a pump of exctllent water in the
yard, a handsome piazza fronting the vacant
lot, anil a frame stable and dwelling house on
Goforth-ftreet. The premises now rent for
/.318 per annum. To be fold clear of all in
cumbrances.
u&zm.
For terms apply to Jobn Clement Stacker•
April ao 3*wtf
m'vf
5,0'i0 c*ch,are
1,000
SQo
i<>o
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Run die & Leech.
movs
For further information apply to
No. 144, South Second-Jireet.
■ ForSSatU t , ,
ON l>oar<i the fbip Mollv, jojin troft, ftiafter
from Llverpotff, laying at Walnut-street wharf
6coo bushels ofiine ftoved Salt*
And OUtiEN'S WARE, well alii ried,
By PHILIP NICKLIN & Co.
WHO HAVF IN STORE, ALSO FOR SALS,
100 Boxes WhiteHavarm Sugars
Imperial and > T
Hyson \
17 tubs Quicksilver
a chelts Bandanno Hindkcrchicfs
40j0f»#>
30,000
aojooo
10,000
10,000
10,000
A few cbelts Manchester Goods well aflbrted
in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, mufliuets,
dimities, &c. s Trunks black fewirig fi!k,
180 Crates queens ware, well aflfortcd,
10 Tons (beet lead,
Naiis afTorted, flat and /harp points,
London particular and / Madeira Wfiie in
India market 5 P'P es hhds.
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Tencriffe Wine,
10 pipes choice Port ditto,
31 calks yellow paint,
7 boxes I a bundles writing slates,
I box ink-fUnds & note prefies,
Sail canVas aflorted No. 1 a 8.
May 4. dtf
10,001:
10,00 c
lO,no
10,000
io,oo«
10,000
ao,ooo
150,000
Just Received,
From Batavia (via Providence)
170 Sacks of Java Coffee of Crft quality
aoo half sacks do. do.
a few Box«sof Spices, conufting of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
For iale by
nay 3°
Pennsylvania Population Com-
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sharehold
ers, that a further afllflment of fifteen
dollars i* levied on each share, payable id the
following inftalinents —viz.
One quarter immediately.
One quarter on the lit of June.
One quarter ou the ift September.
One quarter on the lit Dev. next.
Which they arc requested to pay to the Trea
surer of the Company at the Company?* Office,
No. 53 north Fourth street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned i and they are further
informed that on their neglecting to pay the
fame as ajbote directed, the fevwal forfeitures
directed by the Constitution, will] be exacted.
By order of tke Board,
SOL. MARACHE,
fflwf
May I?
PennfylvaniaPopulation Company.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Share Hold
ers, that a further afleflmcnt of nine dol
lars is levied oa each (hare, payable as follows,
Six Dollars immediately, and
Three Dollars on the iftof July next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Treasu
rer of the Company, at the Office,
No. 53, North Fourth-street, agreeably to the
times above mtfnllnjied ; and they are further
informed, that on ;heir neglecting to pa the
fame as above directed, the fevera I forfeitures
will be exacted.
May 17.
JOIIN CRAIG
HAS just imported from Rotterdam, via St.
Thomas, and far sale on reasonable terms
by the package
Platillas Royal
Haerlem *nd Gerw*n linens
Rouens
Post and Pro Patrit Paper
Wafers
Quills
Oziers for Hoops* in Bundles
Cosset Bags
He has also for Sate,
Best Red Clover Seed
Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use
Teneriffe Wine of firfl and second Quality
Coffee in Bagiand Hogsheads
Jamaica Spirits
Conne&icut Turpentine Soap
Window Glaf6
Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Oottoft
Hosiery
April I 8
Millinery Room,
fmw 2w
TAKES an early opportunity of acquainting
her Friends that she has received by the
Willi am Penn, a variety of NEW MIL
LINERY, &Ci which ftie hopes to be able to
fbew them in a few days.
May j8
A FEW BOXES OF
Bologna Sausages,
OF A SUPERIOR QUALITY,
To be fold at No. 199 South Front-Street,
April ao*
ALL perfens indebted to the Estate of Sabah
Marshall, deceased, arerequefted tomake
immediate payment, and those that have demands
against faii estate, are desired to bring in their ac
counts properly attested fprfetdement, to either of
thefubferibers. Christopher Marshall, Jr.
Caspar W. Haines,
Abraham M. Garrigdej,
Administrators to the Estate of Sarah Marfliall,
deceased. June 3 jaw;)w
J VMES DAVENPORT
REfpeflfully informs the Citizens of the United
States that he will make Machines for Spinn
ing Hemp, Flax, 'l ow, Cotton, Wool, manufac
turing Twines, and weaving, by watar, on the
most reasonable Terms.
A Manufactory on this principle, he flatters
himfelf will meet with very general patronage, as
the Machines will be mn<ie and delivered, complete
ly furnifhed, per Spiieile or Piece ; nor will any
chargebemadefor hir Patent Rights,butLiberty will
be given to the Purchaser to life them ; the great
inconvenience of employing Workmen in the erec
tion of them will beavoided,and the person wilbing
to extend them will be able exa&ly to calculate the
expenee. He engages tofet them to work, and
alio inOru£l or caiile to be inftru<£ted, any person
or persons, fn any part of the Union, who may
purchase thele Machines, in their principles and
method of cre<slion, such purchasers paying travel
ing expences.
For terms, application may be made at No. 74,
Market Street, Philadelphia.
%*lt is requeued that all letters may be peßpaid.
Jure 10 *6t-
3000 bushels St. Übes SALT, for sale by
, Philips, Cramondj Ssf Co.
m JuDe 12. i
WILLINGS & FRANCIS,
P-cnivftrect.
pany.
Trcafurcr.
Sim
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Treasurer.
jjut
No. Market-Jlreet.
MISS CHRYSrAL
Notice
St. Übes Salt.
The Commifiion&rs
FOR carrying ii!t® effe& the TWIN TY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Limits,
and Navigation, between His Catholic Majesty
and the United States cf America, hereby give in
formation toailPevfons therein concerned, —That,
in order to terminate a!! differences, on account of
the Uffe6 iu ft .lined by tlie Citizens of the United
States, in confcquence of tfaeir Vessels and Car
goes having been taken by the Subje&s of His Cath
olic Majesty, during the late War between Spain
ami France, that they are ready to receive (at their
Office, between the hours of ten and one o'clock,
daily) all complaints and applications, authorized
by the said Article, during Eighteen Months,
iron the day of the date hereoY, and that they have
power to examine all l'uch persons as some before
them, on oath or affirmation, touching the com
plaints in quellion, and aifo to receive in evidence,
all written testimony, authenticated in such man
ner as they fliall think proper to require or admit.
By Order of the Comm'tjjinners,
PETER LOHRA,
Secretary.
C mmiffioners Office, Ao. 109, Mulberry
reet, Philadelphia, May 1797.
ao—O4W
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
Neatly bound and lettered, price 2 d«ls. 25 cts*)
•n /-1 r\ n/> /m» *t> • '**
By G. DECOMBAZ,
BOOKSELLER & STATIONER,
No, 48, North Third Street,
7he Adventures of Telemachus.
French and Englilh, a vols. ismo.
AMONG the books which daily fall i»to the
hands of the youth of both sexes, none
have a higher claim to their attention thin Tele
machus. The most interesting lessons are here
conveyed in the vehicle of an interesting Poem,
replete with the fineft touches of the true pa
thetic, and embelllhed with all the graces of a
beautiful style. The fatal effe<sl» of indulging
the pafiions are exemplified in the moll finking
manner ; and the happiness attending inno
cence and virtue painted in the liveliest colours.
Whatever can incite to virtue or deter from
vice ; whatever cau enlighten the understand
ing, charm the imagination, and improve the
h«art, is to be found in this interesting work.
THE NAVAL GAZETTEER;
Being a complete Geographical Dictionary,
containing a full and accurate account, alpha
betically arranged, of all the countries and isl
and« in the known world ; showing their lati
ude, foundings, and stations for anchorage ;
with a particular description of the feveralßays,
Capes, Channels, Coves, Creeks, Currents,
Gulfs, Haibonrs, Havens, Lakes, Oceans, Ra
ces, Rivers, Roads, Rocks, Sands, Shoals,
Sounds, Straits, Tides, Variation of the Com
pass &c. Together with a particular relation
of the shape and appearance at sea, of the feva
ral Headlands, Jlthmufes, Peninsulas, Points,
Promontories, and whatever is of use or impor
tance to the Matter, Pilot, Commander, or
Seaman sf any lbip or vefTel, in navigating the
watery element.
Also Comprehending
Ample Directions for lailing into or out of the
different Ports, Strait?, and Harbours of the
four quarters of the world j and for avoiding
dangers on the variaus and extended coasts ; in
1 whieh more than twelve thousand distinCt names
of places, are treated of and explained. With
a correCt set of Charts, * Bvo. price 6 dols.
By tfte Rev. JOHN MAlviiAkM,
€? This haj been pronounced the most ufe
ful and the cheapcft book pnblifhed in America.
June o. dtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleas
ure and refpeft, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years residence iu
Philadelphia ; and assures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, she has made a superior arrangem«nt for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mr*.
Groombridge and matters excelling in their
refpe<£Hve profrffions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June jth, 1797. Jimftf
Thelituatinn is perfectly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
Houfhold Furniture.
4a w
NOW felling by private iale, No. 17 Dock
ftreet—confuting el chairs, tablet, looking
glafles, bureaus, hand and fire irons, bedftcads,
feather-beds carpets, bedding, window curtains,
bed and table linen, kitchen furniture, &c. The
whole in good order, and has only been a few
months in use.
The I'aJs to continue daily 'till the whole is fold.
June a §
$.?OI
THE BUILDING now occupied by the Bank
of the United States. For terms en
quire of Edward Garrigues, No. 39, Cherry-street
N. B. Also a large, convenient Cellar in a good
Gtuation : Apply as above.
June lJ
eotf
New Hat and Hosiery Store.
Jnft Imported\
In theJhips William Fenn and Star, from London, and
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
AT his new Hat and Hosiery Store, No. 134,
Market frteet—
An elegant assortment of silk, cotton and thread
Stockings
Silk, cotton and thread Gloves
Pantaloons, ice. &c.
Likewise, a handsome aflbrtsient of men's, wo
men's, and children's falhionable Hats, fuitablcfor
the Scafon.
A conflderable quantity of low and mi ldlr priced
Hati aflorted in cases, intended for country llares.
May 23. taw
The Subscriber,
Determined to retire from business, invites all
who have any nore, bill, bhnd or acceptance
of hi*, now due, to call for payment ; anil tfcofe
who wi(h to anticipate may receive the money
at a realonable dilcount.
May 12. daw.
Dorcheftcr, ncarßofto/i, 16th May X 797.
An elegant House in Arch-street.
TO be let and entered on immediately, a large and
elegant House at the cornerof Arch and
There ate two drawing rooms and one dining room
—the largest ii 31 feet by t6—and two are so con
netted by folding doors as to make but onr. t\ 1 to,
five bed rooms, beside five in the garrer, Well finilh
ed for dim. There are flab)e> and a coach houle,
with every convenience tor a family. Enq"ir«at No.
89, in North Sevemh-ftreet, or at No. »18, Arch
itect.
Also to be rented for the summer season, a small
neat house and garden about 3 1-2 miles from the
citv, witk liables ami coach house, Enquire as above.
June 6. aaw3 w
To Let,
tots
n«-w opening by
JAMES SWAN,
The Cornmiiilonerl
FOR carrying into cffc<Sl the sixth article the
treaty of amity,commerce and navigation, con
cluded between his 3ritannic majesty and the United
States of America, ©Q tlie 19th day of November,
1794, having this day constituted their Boardj
pursuant and agreeably to the said treaty, do here
by give notice, that they are rc.idy to proceed to
bufind's accordingly; and they desire that all claim#
un ler the said article (which so far asthe fane de
scribes the cases thereby provided for, is hereunto
annexed) may be lodged with their Secretary with
out delay.
They further desire that all such claims may rot
only state in what manner the several cases come
within the description of the said article, but also
Specially fet'forth .he nature of the evidence by
which the claimantsrefpeitive'y undertake tofub
ftantiate the fame.
Ex'.nit from the {aid article,
" Whereas it is allcdged by divers Bri:i!h mer
" chants, aud ethers his majeft) 's fubje&s, that
" debts to a confid rabla amount, v\ hich were bona
" Bde con traded, before (he peace, still remain
" owing to them by citizens or inhabitants of the
" United States; and that by the operation of va
" rious lawful impediments, liner the peace, not
" only the full recovery of the said debts has been
'• delayed, but also the value and security tftereof
u have been in several instances impaired and less
" cltd, so that uy the ordinary course of judicial
" proceedings, the British creditors canuot now
" obtain and a&uallv have and receive full and
" adequare compeufation for the loiT s and dama
" ges which tney have thereby fuf ained: It in a
" greed that in all such cases where full compenfa
" tion for such loiTes and damages cannot for what
" ever reason be adudly obtained, had and recei
" ved by the said creditors in the ordinary course
" of justice, the United States will make full and
" complete compensation for the fame to the said
" creditor# : but it is diltirxftly understood, that
" this provision is to extend to such losses only as
" have been qccaftoned by the lawful impediments
" aforefaid, ard is not to extend to losses occifion
" ed by such insolvency of the debtors or other
" causes, as would equally have operated to pro
" duce such loss, if the said impediments had not
•• existed ; nor to furh losses or damages as have
•• been occasioned by the manifeft delay, or negli
'• fecncc, or wilful omiflTon of the claimant."
By order of the Board,
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secretary.
Philadelphia, Commissioners* Office, * •
No. 3 south Sixth-street, May 29,
r HE SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
the Envoy Extraordinary and Minilier Pleni
potentiary of his Britannic Majesty, General Agent
ior tflifting Briiiih creditors, and such particular a
gents as they may specially authorize, in prosecuting
their claims before the commissioners for carrying in
to effe& sixth article of the Treaty of Amity, Com
merce and Navigation between his Britannic h'ajcjly and
the United Stdles of America, hereby gives nonce that
he has onencd his office at his feoufe the south east
comer of Chefnut and fifth ftrccts, Philadelphia,
where he is ready to receive all claims or injiru&ious
for claims with, the vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the purpoie of bringing forward the fame agree
ably so the rules and orders which the board may
think proper to prescribe.
And ai it will be for the interest of all concerned-,
that the several claims be so dated, and support.
Ed, as to prevent the delay which would arise from
the fiecediiy of obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials,from perfonj rcfiding
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (tor the
direction chiefly of those, who, not having employ
ed particu*' agents, may leave the profecuticui of
their claims t» his charge and management) that all
lucti ought in particular to fct firth—
ift. The proocr tirfcripiion and fitnation of the
creditor or claimant, enct debtor,
ivcly.
ad. The date or nature of the original contrafl or
debt.
3d. When, in what manner, aod to what extent;
the creditor or claimant w. $ prevented or impeded,
by the provifirm, operation or defect of law, the
decisions and pi attire of courts, or rettrain! of exe
cution, from recovering payment of the debt in
quo&ion.
4th. The loss and damage incurred or sustained,
in consequence of such impediments, whether the
fame may have irifen from the inlolvetrey, change of
situation, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from laple of time, or other causes impairing
the value and security of the debt, which wouid not
have so operated if sUch impedimenta had notrxiftcd.
The particular grounds and reasons ou
which the claimant maimains, in the terms of the
treaty, that " by the ordinary course of judicial pro
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and actually
have and receive full and adequate compensation" tor
the loffesand damages fofuftatued.
The general agent thinki it his duty farther to sug
gest that the ftvcral claims ought to be accompanied
and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly attested, both as to the exigence
of the dtbts claimed, and such other circumitances
as may be within their owri knowledge relpettively.
And Wherever the claimants it) Hating the nature of
their evidence (which must in every inftanctf be the
best of which the cafe is capable) have otcafion to
refer to the teltimony of witnesses, it will b.e proper
to appnCethe general agent of the names and places
of residence of luch witnelTesand the fattato be efl£
blilhed by. their teflimony.
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphis, June Bih, 1797. djm
Nathaniel Lewis & Son,
Have for sale at their fore, No. 70, adjoining
George Latimer & Son, Pine-Jlreet Wharf,
A Quantity ct
Madeira Wines
In pipe' and half pipes
Madeira Walnuts and Citron, lately imported
in the fchoontr Sincerity, Capt. Copia
4'fi,
J5 Puncheons, fecund and th.'rd proof, Weft-
India Rum, and a few Pipes of Brandy
They have constantly oft hand and for Vale,
French Burr and Country MHI Stones of various'
sizes, and a oeneral assortment of Bouhiug Cluhs of
the bed guality, both American and Foreign ma
nufadure. The former having proved, from fe
deral years rxpcricnce of a number of militrs in,
different parts of the United States at lead equal,
and in many instances luperior to the European,
Cloths. we hope the majiufafiurer, Robert l)a\v
son, will meet with liberal encouragement in thi*
important and ufeful undertaking. He has obtain,
ed a patent and exclusive rigiit of . making an«
vending Boultin* Cloths on his improved plan for a
number ef years, and t! ey are iold only by him
felf in Lancaster, state of Pennfytvani», and b'y
the fubferibers in Philadelphia.
June 14
C O T T O N.
A few balesjuft arrived, for sale by
JOHN CLARK,
No. 55 North Water Street.
June :o.
Received by the Indoftan,
From Madras,
A SMALL invoice consisting or the following
Coast Goods, viz.
Blue Cloths s
Long Cloths, 14 punjums
Do. do. firie
Handkerchiefs, and
Book Muslins
WILLING FRANCIS.
, ' 3»w'"
Marc if »/.
J 6—Jim