#a?etteStates, y Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
1385.] - THURSDAY EVENIb f FEBRUARY i 6, 1797. Xf.
For Freight or Charter,
Q HE is a good vefTel, fails fact, carrie*
1 O about 500 barrels, and will take in
Freight to proceed Co i<wife, or for the Weft-Indies.
For terms apply to Emanuel mailer, on
beard, at Arch-street wharf, or to
ISAAC WARVEY, Jun,
{Jo 5 Sou: h W.ter-ftjeei.
mi- ■■ ■ ' - tw
rOK SALE, OS BOARD SAID VESSEL,
A few coils Cordage,
CANDLES, and-
SHOES.
iTJin For Sligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship Nanct,
Cuthbert Riggs, mailer.
Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or paflage apply to
William Bell ;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well aflorted
3 Bales Irish Flannels, and 2 boxes Linens
jj-Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Russia Matts,
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c. '
November ix, 1796, ftf
CUSTOM-HOUSE, February 13, 1797.
Sales at Auction.
AT the Cuflom House, on Monday next, the 20th in
ftast, at t» o'clock, for payment of duties, having
Remained in the stores beyond the timd limited by law, the
fallowing goods : viz. , '
—— "Hi A tub of Urals Kettles
T H I Seven boxes tliffeieut MinrraN
One box Playing Cards
Y S One ditto Paper
T C
I 5c 3 Two boxes Pamphlets
W B Thfee calks Wine
A box M ill Saws
I M Six pockets Cctton
I C M One box Pamphlets
I§T 1 a 3 Three boxes Books
W M I & 2 Two boxes ditco
3" D 10i One bale Girth Webb
One box Pamphlets
T W One cafe Wom .11' • Silk Shoes
One chest containing .Cloth '
One bundle Bags
M § R No. 4 One trunk Worded TafTels
One bundle lupple jack Canes
One box Candles
One ditto Soap
■O Two small boxes Linens
The Goods may be viewed at any time in the morning
41 the day of file. (Signed) SHARP DEL A MY,
February 14 §tM Collector
The Elephant,
New exhibited, wa& bought for Ten ThoufantJ
T)~Vz---z- • - ■ ' . *
He is 3 years old, 6 feet,high, growing to 18 feet.
He eats tjo weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
■water ; he has drank some days forty bottles of porter,
drawing the corks with his trenk.
He is perfectly inoffenfive; travels loose, at the
rate of five miles an hour, and is the greatell curiolity
erer brought to this Continent.
Ke is to be seen 'till the 15th of January, in
Market-street between Third and Fourth-streets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him
after which time the former price of half a dollar will
be resumed.
He will leave Philadelphia as _soon as the weather
■will permit.
Dccenjber 31 d
Red Clover Seed.
Fresh red Clover Seed of the belt (quality, in bags of
5 bu/hels each
Madeira wine in pipes, fit for immediate life
Teneriffe wine in pipes, hoglhead's and quarter calks
Ditto do. of firft quality, for the use of private
families
Coffee in hoglheads
Jamaica spirits - 1
Connedlictit soap in small boxes
pb<~c fpgnrK, ar.rl „
Two trjnks of best patent, plain and ribbed silk and
cotton ho!ier>, fwfaieby
JOHN CRAIG.
February 1. wff&mtf
FOR SALE, BY
Philip Nicklin & Co.
lTyfon Land } TEAS
17 Tabs Quickfilvtr
a Chests bapdanno Handkerchiefs
A few chests Manchester /Goods, well aflorted in Cor
jduroys, Ti»ich.fets, Ginghaips, Muflinets, Dimities, Bcc.
3 Trunks black Sewing -Silk
120 Crates Queeji's well aiTorted
lo Toms Sheet Lead
Nails affortcd flat and fharppoin^
London Paruular*) Madeira wine in pipes and hogs-
India Market 3 heads
40 Pipes a*d 10 Hoglheads Teneriffe V/ine
10 »Togfiiieadfc choice Port Wine
7 Tierces Snake-Root
*6 Caucs yelipw Paint
9 Boxes' and is Bundles writing Slates
I Box Ink Stands and Note Presses
14 Bales Sail Ganvafs aflorted, No. I to 8
February ti. mw&ftf
A convenient stable
Situatkd in Laurel Court— 3 Stalls therein te.be rent
ed, with the privilege of using- the Hay-Loft.
Eight years of the time of service of aNJZGRQ MAN
for sale. lie is accaftomed to house work, and capable ps
taking care ef Horses. Enquire of the Printer.
February II ft thtf
RICE.
.180 Tierces Rice for Sale by
Samuel Breck, Jun.
No. 89 South Third Street
LIKEWISE,
»« or »» Pockets COTTON, and
A Quality I. H. SHERRY WINE,
50 Cafcs SWEET OIL, Set. &c.
F«binjiy it ticthfit ,
Samuel RrqHARDET
■n ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentleme-
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS QOFFEK HOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia;
The Subscription Room will be fumilhed with all the
daily papers publilhed in Philadelphia, N3W-York, B&-
ton, Baltimore, togother with thoie of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will fee regularly .iled
and none permitted to be t iken arwuy on any acqgu't.
Tea, Coffee, gcupcs, Jellies, Ice Creams, And a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refreflsnrentsj
wilLat all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen riay depend on being accommodated witi
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the moil
approved Malt Liquors fromLomion and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
productions of the Seaforf.
Large and small Parties, qr single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Sappers, at
hours moil convenient to cold Collation :s
regularly kspt the biliof Fare to be had
at tha bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furaifced, aad
the utmost attention paid to cleanlinefa, and tverj other
requisite.
igf Richardkt will bchappy to recefvej and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part shall be wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so diltinguifh
ingly Honored.
Philadelphia, April T?) mwf
G A M I L L A,
Or A Pi&ure of Youth.
By the authoress of Evelina and Cecilia, to be com
prifecl in five volumes, at half a dollar each, payable
on delivery —Printed at New-York, by Mr. John
Bull.
•CONDITIONS.
I. llandfome, near type, ptri'edjl/ new, is em
-plowed.
11. A volume, stitched ia blue paper, is intended
to be publilhed every 2 weeks, till the five are com
pleted ; the firft and fecorid art come to hand, and the
third is hourly expeijled. Subscriptions are received,
and Books may be h?d of J. OKMROD, No. 4 1 ,
Chefnut-ftreet-
Mrs. D'Arblay (late Miss Barney) the celebrated
authoress of this inimitable work, needs no eulogy
to add to the laurels lie has already acquirer' iu the
literary world, 'i he ltrength of mugina.tion and ele
gance of style, displayed in Evelina and Cecjl.i, wilt
fufftciently iecommend to every reader of ialle and
judgmem, the perufaj of Camilla.
It may not be improper to add, that the Qufen of
England, after having perused this interfiling publi
cation, presented Mrs. D'Arblay vrith a thouLnd
pounds (lerlicg, as a testimony of her approbation of
(-.the work.
January 15 rav.'f
For Sale,
By the Subfcrioers —In PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported liv tfce E.a->lc.
WILLI NGS 6c FRANCIS,
Nov. 30 w&f
For hale,
At the Office of the Editor of the Gazette of the
United States,
A FKW COM KB OF
" An account ot the Receipts and
Expenditures of the Uniied States, for the year 1 '795.''
ivir. Pickering's 'fitter.
This Dav- Published,
AND FOR SALE BT THE EDITOR,
Pricc three eights of a Dollar.
I THE Letter of the Secretary cf State, to Mr. Piuck
n«y, Miniiter Plenipotentiary of the United States, to ,
thjB # French Republic. 6t
ALL PERSONS
TKDEBTED to the Eflate of the late David Kennedy
F.fquire, either by note, I ill, bond, book account, or
otherwise, are requested to Kiake immediate payment to
the fubferibers, without del y, and all persons luving,anjr
just demands again# said filiate, are dcljrcd so exhibit the
fame for adiuument.
ANN KENNEDY ) Adni'x.
FRANCIS JOHNSTON J Adm'r.
Philadelphia, Fu- K ru,w". ?. v.-ftw
Wants a Place,
A" S WAITER in a gentleman's Houie, a young man
who has live Hor a cons: ierablc time in Tome of the
I firft houses in the city, and whose character is sure ; or
would engage with a fin<jle gentleman to attend on him.
Directions left at the Near York and Baltimore ftage
oflice, No. 10, south 4th, near' Market llteet, for R. H.
will be attended to. February 14
Notice
To the American Sailors returned from Albert.
YOU are requested to call at ray house, on Thursday,
the 16th inflant, at ten o'clock, to receive the mo
ney I colleded for you. SI". MARY,
331 Market-ftrect.
February 2t
Peter Borger,
No. 129 Mulberry Street,
HAS imported by the brig TjyaJ, captain Robert Knox,
and the Good Friends, captain Smith, from Hamburg,
7000 Empty French bottles,
200 do. demijohns,
*46 do. filled with bcana and lentils,
100 Hand Engines, ,
100 Ps. Platillas,
aoo White Rolls—
I—A LSO
Several boxes with decanters and tumblers, half pint, pjnt
and quarts—o«e invoice of Nuremberg toys —containing
fnuff-boxes, looking-glasses, &c.
too.©oo Quills of different qualities,
150 Boxes Window Glass, 7-9 9-11 11-12.
—-ON HAND
so Qr. Casks **crry Wine,
4 do. Biandy,
2ov Cases belt Holland Gin,
200 Boxes Red Wine, containing 12 bottles each,
One of Flannels aflorted, and
30 Ps. Cloth, , N
Fresh Prunes in boxes and barrels*
February 7. tu 6c fr
A Wet Nurse.
WANTS A PLACE,
\ YOUNG Woman, with a good bread of milk. She
X~!k can be well reconuncJTJed. Enquire at Mr. Mor
row's, Gun-Suiith, opposite the State-House, Chefnut
fiftct. February 13.
Bourdeaux Brandy,' in Pipes,
OLD Claret, in calks
Ditto in cases, or aa excellent quaiuyj
Wine io pipes <
Fourth''pi oof Holland Gin
I -N>w-Ens{l3r]«i Rua» in hogfhead»and tieitei
X lUiw in kfgt
! Be:f and Pork
. i o ; Salstioii ia baircli
i KuiHa Sail Duck
. : n rtufk
I A tcwf'ea her Iseds
Out 11 i-z inch Cable > f , f ,
One 9 do. do.S '«* f «ho'.B» fV'g«ch
Candlea
Mould and dipt Tallow ditto
A few b ar » els Tanners Oil, and
A ftnqll invoice of India Goods,
For Sale by
JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co
ALSO,
Just received from Marfejlka, afiaall invoice of Silks, Silk
Stocking, an adortment of Perfumery* and a few calct of
the best Olive Oil.
February 15
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRaT Sc. ad proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dqzen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different lijes
Hazlenuts, in sacks
Whiting
Copperas ( . ~,
WhireLead C ,nkM »
& Spanifli Brown'J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE and PRIGE,
No. 79, Market-street, Philadelphia,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals .from
London, a large afiortment «f IV si KHANT E D
IVA /'CHES, esnfifting of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, v»-ith of fnperior
workmanlhip and elegance ; a'.fo capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jc.iell'd, capp'd,
seconds, day of the mouth, and plain Silver Watt lies ;
eight day & chamber Clocks ; elegant Freach Clock* -
with marble frames ; eight day thirty hour, bfafs
works, &c.
Decembet 21, 1796. d-zm
Five Dollars Reward.
LOST, about ten days since, a small SPANISH DOG,
white, dappled with yellow—sharp ears, small head,
long hair, inclining to curl ; occalionAlly limps on one
hind leg ; aßfwers to the of Damon. Whoever
will bring him to No 104, corccr of Spruce and 3d
ftreeu, shall receive the above reward.
February 9 tf&t3t
-r— ; T T
JUST ARRIVED,
By the Danlfli ihip Friendinip, captain Matzen, from
Red Port Wine,
In Pipes, Hog{h<t»ids an% Quartcr-Caflcs,
150 Boxes of Lemons,
.For by
Philips 3 Cramend Co.
February 9 §
Frefo Garden," Grass and FlowerrSeeds,
Roots, 'isfc. &c.
This d-y landing from the lhip Eagh-, captain Fofdick,
from London,
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Stcond-llreets,
A mofl capital and 'xtenfivc AJfortment of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c. &c.
Among which are,
kinds A fporagu s; | Three kind« CreCfes
!, 'our XJcrecolc j fwelve Onion
Twenty-five Bear.3 Thirteen Radilh
Six Beets Fifteen Turnip
£leyen Brocoli Fiftesa Peas
Twenty-fix Cabbage Six Savoy
Six Carrot Four Parsnip
Three Cauliflower Twenty-three TVlelon
Five Celery Twenty-one Lettuce
lea Cucumber
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled seas and fpriggecf Parsley
Pot Marygold Pot Marjpryni
Balm . Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek Kail .Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerne
Red and white Clover Timothy, Sac. See.
With a curious collection of the most esteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the most extensive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Sfcedfman in Londen, and
art warranted frefh and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Pec. 17 §
A PARCEL OF VERY FINE
St. Croix Sugars knd Rum,
JAMAICA SPIRITS, and
LACUIRA HIDES,
For Sale by
Feb. 7.—§2* JAMES YARD.
Twenty Guineas Reward. "
RAN AW AY from the fuMcriber on the 13d October,
a Dark MSJLATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 21 years
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mi-xsd green
coat, with a green velvet cape and pval yellow buttons;
a striped vert ; a pair of dark spotted pantalqons, and
boots much worn. It is probable he may change
his name aad dress. He has been accutlom.d to driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward wiil be
paid for securing him so that the fubfcriWer may get him
again, and if'brought home all'reafonable charges paid by
Robins Chamberlaine.
Eaflon, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 'imiawtf
NOTICE. .
THE Sales of LANDS of the United"State», in the
iNorth-Weftern Territory, heretofore advertised
in the several public papers, will commence this even
ing, attheCity Tavern tp becontiuued from day
to day, 'till the tsath of MARCH next, if not foouer
fold. •
January 4 §
'i
Mas. G RAT TA N
Refpe&fully informs her friends, and the public 14
general, that on Tocfday the icth day t>f Janua
lhe propol'es ppcning, ?t No. 39, Norfh Sixi!;?
. street,
A Linen and Muslin W^rehpufe,.
Book Mufiins, from tb 11/11 per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to ojß per yard '
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to per yard
Pine .
TambourM Book Muslin;, from 15/9 to 2\j per yard
Iridia MuHin, from 11/3 to ISf per yard
Sheeting Miiflin
Jaconet mufiin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 "to (f per hdkf
Book muilin Handkerchiefs fioni to Tq/b per hdkf.
Muslin color'd and border'd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchiefs
Tambeur'd Cravats from 10JH \to 11/1:
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from Jl/3 to 16/3 per yard
Table Cloths
Huckthuck Towelling
Women's Cotton Hose, from 64> to 13/ per pair
Dimity, from i/10 to 6/i 1
Men's Siik Hose
Tambour'd muslin Handkerchiefs from 11/ ii to
Irish linens for jGentleiren's Shirts, from jfs to
Aud a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready madj
i,inen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Crayatj,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, &c. &c.
Houlhold Linen, &c. See.
A plain (hirt, made and mark'd, 3 l-l dollars,
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain (hirt, made at>d mark'd, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled riitto 6 dollars-
A plain shirt, made and marked, 5 i-a dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 1-1.
A plain fliirt, madeand mark'd, 6 i-a dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
JLinen included.
January 13. §
Pennsylvania Population Company.
NOTICE is hereby given, to such Share-holders at
as havs not paid their afieflmfcnts on theirlharcs—to
pay the fame immediately to the Secretary of the Compaq
ny, at the Company's Office, No. 53 north Fourlh-ftreet,
Philadelphia. 1 hey are further informed, that in ctefaulf
of paying the fanae within thirty days from the 4th of Fe
bruary, in dan t, the several forfeitures will be, itri&ly c»,
ailed, in conformity to the lift article of association.
By urder ef the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Secretary
Feb *■ j— §3B _
Mahogany and Logwood.
A. Carso for Sale on board ef the ship Sally, capfaio
Gelfton, just arrived from Honduras.
Apply to
, PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co.
t FcSruarv Q
; ■ »'■ 1 »V* „
Bank of Pennsylvania,
January 4, 1797.
At a meeting of fche Dlre&ora th«s day, a dividend of
sixteen dollars on eadi fh ire was declared for the la(£
6 months, which will be paid to'the Stockholder* af
ter the 14th inft.
JONATHAN Cashier.
Jan. 3. dtf.
DANCING
TAUGHT BY
MRS. B T R N,
Of the New Theatre, To Ladies only.
THINKING it a great advantag: for them to 'have £
Female Tutor in ihat art, pledges .herfelf to their par
ents and friends to tak,e allpoflible care in their inftrli&ion.,
In addition to the Dances taught in Philadelphia, mean?
to teach the Minuet, Minuet de la Cour, Ali j-iand, Ga
vot, Quadrilles, Strathspeys, and all Scotch Dances ; and
above all to pay particnlar attention to that very neceflary
part Polite Address. For particulars enquire of Mis Bykn>
No-70 north Eighth-ftriiet. Februry6 - mwltf
PURSUANT to a Resolve of the Board of Trustee* of
Washington Academy, in Somcrfet County,
State of Maryland,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the office of Principal Teacher in the said school {is
vacant.
A GENTLEMAN qualified to teach the higher Greek and
Latin Claflics, Geography, and the Mathematics, with
fucb other branches of literature as arc usually taught in such
schools, meet with liberal encouragement, and, it i*
believed, would obtain a very eligible settlement. For the
present, the Trustees would be willing to contract with a per.
lon capable of taking charge of a Grammar S hool.
Asthis Institution is provided with buildings fufficient tp
accommodate the principal and his family, and from seventy
t9;eighty boyai; a library, an excellent philofophicil and ma
thematical apparatus, globes, maps, &c; has refpe&able
funds, and is situated in a plentiful and agreeable part of the
country ; nothing seems wanting to make it rank among the
mod ufeful fem.naries in this part of the Union, but a fuitabje
character to preside in it.
Proposals may be adarefTed to the fubferiber, in Princess-
Anne, in the neighborhood of the Academy, or to Do&or
MArtin L Haynie, No. 83, north Third-ftrect, Phila
delphia, or to the Printer hereof.
EZEKIEL HAYNIE.
January 20. ' Feb y. tu&fßw
This Day is Publilhed,
BY Mess* Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the other
Booksellers, price One Dollar and twenty-five cents, elegant r
ly printed on woye paper, and by John Thomp®
son,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The CONSTITUTIONS of the ftveral States„
"With.each other, and with chat, of the United States ; 1
exhibiting.in Tables, the prominent features of each Con
stitution, and elalling together their most important pro
visions, under the several heads of adminiftratioji; wit)}
Notes and Observations. By William Smith, of Soutk-
L L D. and member of the Congress of the
United States. Dedicated to th® People of the United
States. / *
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior paper, at
,>4thsof a jdollar. February 6 mwf
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, Nq. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Noya-Scqtia Prime Salmon, in barrel?
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen of fingte one
Dry _C«dfHh, from one to fifty kentals
Fine and caarfe Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the ftrrye
and ground, for manure and ftucto-woik
DecemberNew Ci
On FRID VY EVENING, February 17,
WII L be presented. (for the fecontl time) a celebrated
NEW COM£\DY, (written by the author of Colum
bus, The Children &c.y caHed
The Way to get Married. 1
JA» performed atCovent-G»rden Theatre 39 nighis, without s u ss
the firft season ; and firice, upwards of 15^
nights", with unbounded applause.] r L
Tangent, Mr. Mo're.on Ned, Mr. Bl.flfett the
Toby Alfpice, Mr. Harwood Pollillion, Mr. T. A arrel he
Cap .Taulkner.Mr. Cooper Undertaker, «Mr. McDonald m ;,
Cmrtic. ' Ms. Warren Jailor, Mr. Mitchell
Dick Dalhall, Mr. Wignell Sol'cilor, (Ml'. Morgan
M'Queery, Mr. Prigmore Officer, Mr. Warn 11
Lawllord, M- Darley William, Mr. J. Darley tha
Shopman, Mr. J. Wariell tha
Julia Faulkner, Mn. Merry ~
Clementina,. Mrs trancis
Lady Sorrel, Mr.. L'Eftranje cn<
Fanny, Wm. Dnftir. A thl
To which will beadefed, a Comic Opera, called
The Padlock. . Iwb
Don Diego, Mr Darley
Leander, (firfttime) Mr. Darley, jun. hei
ift Scholar, Mr. Warrell, jim. em
ad Scholar, Mi. Mitchell tic
Mungo, ( Mr. B.ites ou
Leonora, Mrs. Warrell
Urfuta, Mrs. Meteht'.er.
J Ob Saturday evening, will be pe-fbrmtd, for 1 ;
the feventhandlaft time this season, COLUMBUS ; B'|
or a World Difcovercd ; with Entertainments. mi
Th? third night of THE WAY TO GET MAR- i 8
RIED will be on Monday next. . at<
Box, One Dollar twenty-five ter.t9. Pit Seven Eigh:hs
of a Dollar, and Gulltfry, half a dollar.
0- Ticket»-to be had at H. & P. Rice's tfook,ftore
"* No. 58 High-street, and at the Office adjoining the N<
Theatre. M
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their f a ,
servants to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and t ] (
to order them, as foos as the company are feared, to
withdraw, as they cannot on any account be permit-
ted to remain.
The Doors or the Theatre will open at 5, and the 311
Curtain rife prccifely at 6 o'clock. 00
• Places for the Boxes to lie taken at the Office in the la 1
front of the theatre, from 10 till 2 o'clock, and from f lc
lo till 4 on the days of performance. 0 f
FIT AT RESPUJSLICA ! u
———————; • w
College-Hall. f«
Readings and Recitations, in
Morale Critical, and Entertaining • iy
m
On THURSDAY E VENING, in
February i6th, at 7 o'clock, c |
Will be recited *
first part.
Anthony's Funeral Oration, Shakespeare. rc
Cato'»soliloquy 00 the Immortality of the Soul, Addifon. 0
Ode on St. Concilia's Day, Pepe.
SECOND PART,
The Story of Lavinia, Ihomfon. n
Edwin apd Emma, Mall«t. vs
Maria, fi'rft and second part, Sterne. a
Ode so Madness, Pcnrofe.
THIRD PART*
Ode on the PalTions, Cellini. n
Alexander's Feast, Dryden. p
OnSATURD VY, February 18,
Will be Continued,
Selections from the tragedy of 0
HAMLET, (
a Critical Invcfligation of the -Chara&er of Hamlet 0
and Obfervatioire on Shakespeare. fc
Tickets to be had of Mr. Ponlfon, jun. at the Library ; c
at mr. M*El wee's looking-glass-store, S. Fourth
ftreet; and at Mr. Carey's, Bookseller, Market-ftrcet — j
Half a dollar each.
- • 111 ■ (
IVA NTS A PLACE. <
A Woman who can be well recommceded for honesty, so- {
briety, and j>ood temper. She wiftics to eng jge as cham
bermaid, or sempstress for low wages on condition she may
retain a young child with her. Enquire at No. 58 South j
Front street, February t6 d
g? Do«flor Priestley intends to deliver a Dif-
Course for the benefit of' the Philadelphia Society for
the relief «f diftrefled Emigrants from Foreign coun
trie®, on Sunday morning next, Feb. 19, at the Col
lege Hall, in Fourth ilreex, at half past ten o'clock.
February 16 3 C
To-Morrow Morning,
rft 9 o'clock, will be fold at PUBLIC AUCTION
On Hamilton's wharf,
' Fresh Fruits and Wine,
Jul! arrived from Malaga, viz,
480 kegs RAISINS of the Sun
,130 boxes Bloome ditto
180 ditto Mufcatcl ditto ,
4t kegs FIGS
50 boxes PUUINS
20 sacks foft-fhtlled ALMONDS
to Qr-Caflts old Mountain WINE of fuperiorjqual
ity
A few jare G R APES and keg« ANCHOVIES.
Approved endorsed notes at 6a days will be received
inpayment for purchases of ico di nars and upwards.
All purch«fes under 100 dollars, to be CASH.
February 16 WM. SHANNON, Auft'r.
Will be Told,
On Wednesday, the lid day of FeWuary, \njlant y
At the Merchants'Coffee-Houte,
At 12 o'clock, noon,
A Lot, or Piece of Ground,
Containing IX acres and 100 perches, Ctuate near the
Blue Ball Tavern, on the Paffyunkroad, four miles
{rom the city of Philadelphia. This Lot commands a
view of therivers Delaware and Schuylkill, is nearly inclaf.
Ed with a good cedar pod and rail fence, and has a never
failing spring of frefh water riling in it—One acre of
- -which is good bottom meadow—adjoining lands of Willi
»m Bingham, Esq. Jacob Sink, and others. The terms
of faU, one fifth part in ten days after the day of sale,
when immediate poflelfion will be given, the relidue in
payments agreeable to the purchafeir, on paying legal in
terest therefor, and giving security for the lame, if re
quired. An indisputable title will be given, upon mak
ing the firft payment as aforefaid.
A Draft of said Lot may be seen at the Merchants'
Coifee-Houfe, and at the office of Alexander Power, No.
IXS Chefnut-ftreet, where further information may be
had. Philadelphia, February 14 §t2z
FOR SAL E,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-Houfie,
No. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial f Hyson Skin.
Hyson, > frelh Teas. < SouchoDg,
Young Hyson, J
XJec. 9. 3Uwjm.
CONGRESS of s thb .UNITED STATES.
• I
HOUSE OF REPKBSmTATIVSS.
Wednesday, January 18— Cominued.
Mr. Craifc's fpe«th continued.
He wag,afraid this view of the fubjcfl had not
fufficiently engaged the attention of #emlemen.
When he read the accounts in theytiblic prints ot
the flagrant att.uk made upon our commerce; when
he not only saw deprecations and spoliations com
mitted, but adual hoftilitiei threatened, he thought
there was serious grouud for alarm.
One of the strong eftobjc&ions to a direst tax was,
that we cou}d not expert immediate revenue from
that fourcc ; but the force »f this objection ap
plied with equal fttength to the adaptiop of any
energetic measure. If it required time to m?.ture
this plan, it was necessary to bepn it immediately,
that it might be gradually prepared, and ready
whenever ueceflity (hould impel them to have re
course to it ; for it would be preemption and the
height of folly to suppose, we (liould always be ex
empt from what was the common lot of other na
tions. The propriety of'the measure of enereafing
our revenue, had been agreed on all hands, how
ever gentlemen differed about the mode ef effc£iing
it. It appeared to him essentially necessary toori
ginate/ome plan of diredfc taxation to which the}
might resort. If it be admitted that such a plan
is necefTary, though not to foe carried into immedi
ate effect, the present queftioa ought to be agreed
' t0 "
If he understood the gentlemen from Nsw-York,
; New-Jersey, and South-Carolina, (Mr. Williams,
Mr. Henderfon, and Mr. Harper) all agreed, that
r further revenue was necaflary, and two of the gen
'. tlemen were in favor of originating a plan of direfl
' taxes. The question t«e<i refiilted, to what obji'ft
of direst taxation (hould they apply ? They weie
e an agricultural people, and the great capital of th«
country was in land. If a direst tax then mud be
e laid, land was the proper ebje& for it. He con
-11 lidered that the farmers, notwithftsnding their want
of ready mon«y, when compared with the inhabi
tants of cities, as possessed of great part of the
" wealth of the country, and that they ought there
fore to pay their quota of the public taxes. j
It might be necefTary, Mr. Cnik said, to exam
ine fomeoftheobjeftions which hadbeea madeto thii
system. And here he would oblerve that gentle
men ought not toexpeftany thing like perfeftioi
in any scheme of taxation. Taxes were only >
choice of evils ; they were unpleasant, but the;
vrere necefTary. It had been objcdled againltadi
re£t tax, that it was unequal on account of variei;
"• of population, wealth and fituation.—Gentk-me
had not been fatisficd with fuppofiog that a bad pla
might be adopted ; they had supposed the ver
worll to be entered into ; that the nffeflors to b
appointed would bethebafeft of men ; but he trufl
ed the committee who was charged with the bus
ness, would have the good sense to prepare such
plaa as ftituld be free from many objections whic
had been bro't againtt it. Mr. Craik differed i
opinion from the gentleman from South Carolir
( Mr. Harper) that this tax would bear hardefl u;
et on the farmeVs far removed from the sea coail. T'
believedrfhey would rather have the advantage th;
y ; otherwile, from the low value put upon their land
h- The expence of collejSioii had been urged as an o
jeftion. He had been much surprized to he
gentlemen calculate that expence, one at fifteen ai
oue at thirty per cent, Hejwoiidert'd that the ge
eialaeeuraey of those gentlemen (hould have suss.
Ed them to have wandered so much from the poi
on this occalion. He believed the eftimarc of t
nth gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Gallatin) w
I high at 7 1-2 per cent. An obje&ion of this kii
—** was lels applicable to land, than to taxes on a;
'if- other species of property.
f° r A tax or an heaith-tax, had be
j q "' propofedasa substitute, which would in fact
nothing more than a house tax. He thought tl
j filch a tax was liable to every objcj2ion that coi
be made against a tax on land, and to great ma
others peculiar to thcmfclvcs. Houfcs were
JN e q u ' voca ' representation of propefty, and a tax
them would fall on some parts of the country mu
heavier than on others. Indeed it was fufcepiil
of so many obvious objc£tioiig, that they were r
necessary to be detailed.
Mr. Craik said he did tiot conceive it import;
to go into an enquiry how far it was prudent or |
litic to go to an extent ion of the impost;, r.s he!
110 authority on which to found his opinion ; a
he would caution gentlemen from being diver
ual- frdm the quelfion by a expectation of an encrea
revenue from thence. It had been proved very I
isfa&orily by the gentleman from Pcnufvlva
(Mr. Gallatin) that there no certainty
advance in the imposts. Upon a calculation of
r . duties paid upon goods from the Eafl Indies,
::r - Indies and Europe, they amount at least to fixt
per cent, and were gentlemen prepared to fay t
| even this duty might rot prove a temptation
ant > merchants to become fmuggftrs. The quefl
was an abftrafi principle, and did not pledge £
tlemen to this source of taxation only \ if oil
rthe cou ld be found more eligible, they might .be ap
niles ed to. He hoped, therefore, tLe committee Wc
d» a find no difficulty in agreeing to tlii proportion
idas« f ore them.
Mr. W. Lyman said a land tax had always t
/illi- COB f'deied as an impolitic tax. It would be we!
erms enquire why this tax (hould have been so c'oAl?
sale, ed ; whether the whole world had erred in'
lie m ca f c) or there was some natural cause for the o
( ion., A tax on land was calling forth property
mak- fo,e ' l wss produced j for, until land was cultiva
it produced nothing. To call for a tax in this
lants' had also a tesdency to difc»uragc thecultivatio
• No - land.
2 bc Mr. L. said, he admitted that the consumer
indirect taxes'. that thry did not conv from
merchant, but from the person who purehafed
£ goods for consumption. it the person
*£> cultivated the ground who paid a direst tax on lj
but those who bought the produce of the land I
the [market. The cwfumei paid the duty in
cafe as well as|the other.
j*. Tlic queftioa, then, he said, was merely u tii
bfftmodp. "ft
faidtw, tou«ll ior adnect tax on Ul ' * kliev
upon a class ®f people whoperhaps have "" ■
r<> difcharg# it. A m,> who poieffe. land. o. verse
who is the cultivator of it, may not a\e >
until he has fold his produce, locol e . ■
in rhis way, was therefore tedious c.rcuJ .nd Let
uncertain. Wl„t was the cale wuh fjf.
*** taxes, in mdireft taxes, or cxc.fe, the . gl»,
cess, he said, was unerring and certain. They were
fa much so, that an eminent wrttsr 0.. the fubjeft y
had said, it was » pay the debt to government, or pay wou
the debt to nature/The tax mult be paid, or the «th<
person mult cease to exill. -- •
When he contemplated the fubjeft in this poin
of view, and if he weft tight* that direst taxes were the,
paid by'-the as well as indirect taxes, he t e c
could nJt be at a loss what vote to give on tne pre-
{ent ©ccafion. . ~ „ r
in whatever joint of view he co* idered direst be^
taxes, they could not, in his opinion, be compared
with indirect taxes. It was true, that some nidi per
reft taxes, and all taxes in a greater or lei<s degree, proc
were unpopular; but this never happened bat when any
they were pushed too far. An impott or an excise 1 oppi
may be so exceflive as to be incommodious; but fore
this, he said, was not the nature of the tax. ' IC
This, hefyd, was not the cafe with a diretl, or He
land tlx. This, though ever so small was paid un- oth<
willingly ; a poll-tax was the fame. And a man that
called upon to pay a poll-tax, did not ultimately pay won
the tax ; for a poor man who earned only jult fuf- dec!
ficient for his existence, would cease to exilt, it he all
were not to make a proportionable advance en his htu;
, , taxa
labour. .
In what situation was government ? It calls up- tree
on a man t» pay a direst tax,'perhaps unable to pay wilt;
it. This mode, he said, was circuitous, unfafe.and our
not to be relied upon.
This reflection convinced him, that this cauntry oe c
bad chosen indiredt taxes as the best possible mode, beln
He thought it had made a wife choice. He knew that
very well thst a cafe might be Rated in which a di- dci£
reft tax would be neceflary. A cafe might be (iip
pofed in which every thing might be put in requifi- t ""'
lion. But that was not the present question. In und
cafe of an invalion, or a war, it might be neceflary
to put both property and persons in a (late of re- ject
quifition. He would not pretend to fay, that, in tern
such a situation, direst taxes, or any other, would reai
1 not be proper ; but, in noothet situation, could he fed
• think such a tax should be called for. trei
1 Some gentlemen, oppofei! to the adoption of a tha
' direst tax at present, were of opinion that they wa
' Ihould at leall agree upon a plan of direst taxation we
■ which might be ready in cafe of emergency. But no'
f he did not think such a proceeding neceflary, or wil
I that it would answer any good purpose. He bc-
II lieved it would never be necessary to go into the thi
1 buhnefs, except in an extreme cafe. He therefore hai
e did not think it worth while ; for, however well a ♦ thi
- plan might now be laid, it might be unfit to be ac- lar
1- ted upon when it was wanted. Whoever might all
a compose the legislature at such a time, they would fei
h doubtless be able to determine what was necessary. foi
n He was not for anticipating legiflatios in that way. pi
14 B.fides these general observations, which were of
>- applicable to all countries, there was one which ap ca
'e plied-particularly to the United Slates. If a di
nt reft lax was laid, it mult be according to the lalt L
s. ceafutt. In this way the tax would fall very une- ir
3- qually ; for, it would be found that the population an
ar in some parts of the United States exceeded that ac
'd of other part 6in proportion to the extent of terri- fa
n- j lory, an» wealth and produCtivenelsot foil. Where- fr<
r- | ver commerce had extended to'a confiderahle de- di
nt j gree, the landed interett would be taxed on account in
116 los the population which those improvements may tl;
as have produced. Population, was, perhaps, as sure io
id a mean of judging as ally other of the ability to o!
iy pay of any diftrift ; but from the situation of the la
United States it was not, he said, a good criterion M
en at present. b
be Coming from oie Itatehe did, he should be obli
at ped, it he did not generally object to the system of si
i'd direst taxation, to objcA to it on that account. He !tl
"y did uet think a dir«6t tax could comport with the a
as into eft of a populous (late. )f gentlenhen thought v
on Inch a lax would fall heavy or unequal in thinly in- u
habited llates, he mud-give up his argument, but he
jle did not btlieve this could be the cafe. c
He might have said that indirect taxes were indivl- ! t:
dually unequal, unless upon the principle that con- ' \
int fumers pay the duty. It was not in human wist
jo- dom to lay a direst tax equal. But it was said, 1
iad that money mult be had ; that there was a defieien- j
nd «y. in the revenue, and therefore this tax must be ,ti
ed laid. Several gentlemen, he said, had proved that f
fed there might be considerable retrenchments, made in f
at- the puolic expenditure ; peihaps enough to make 1
ma the receipts equal to the expenditures. They had 1
an not yet determined how fai the military and naval :
the j eftablilhment might be curtailed, and several other ! s
eft j articles of expence would admit of retrenchment, t
«n | Betides, if that, were not the cafe, and the sum in t
hat ; question must be raised, he thought there were cert
to tain articles of importation which would admit ofa <
ton hightr duty, and which would not only prod Ace r«- i
tu- Venue, but operate as an encouragement of the ma- 1
ters uufailures of our own country. ]
pit- It would be recollected, Mr. L. said, that peti
u c tioos had bea> received from hat and glass manu J
e- tacturers, and various wthers, praying for an aug
mentation of duty ou thoft articles, as they found
een the preient duty not a fufticient proteftioH to their
ta maiiuUdure,. Indeed the fnanufafture, of the U-
Jer- nitedl States were almost wholly abandoned. Thole
this of glass and of woollens were abandoned those of
pin- cotton, which had progressed to some extent, had,
e in a considerable degree, been abandoned, and some
ted, others were likely to be so. Ec*his pait, he tho't
way 1 t cy iad no other objedt in view than merely the.
not protection-os the manufactures ®f the United
_• j 1 UU r' imp®fe a higher <3uty on a num
tl , Ct ° f rUC , Ca ". had been informed from piel-
J ? Uv ' ior ity, that the importation of huts in. .
1 C fl° V* , ne » ' ia ® 'ad year exceeded io,oool.
who and that porter had for the two iaft year,
ind j exceeded any former importations. The kapona.
thT. C ° alwaEalfe leafing. When it was eon
' [ ld «cd that our own country furnifhed matcials
1 the r. -Ti Tn"' u f ° llCy 8 " d inUrelt that
, " iould bt a d»t j u Fa thtrn. Theft U'
tides, he said, were a!f» so bulky, as t« run so rifle
»f being fmugglcd ; if this were not the c/ife, he
knew that a revenue calculation raigbt prove the re
verse of a mathematical calculation. But, when ar
ticles were fufficiently bulky, the duty might br ii). N
creased to any height,.wit! out danger of fmuggiiiv.
Let the duty be what it would on perter, on coal,
and almost on hats, there need be no fear of fmuir
gling.
There was another article. He believed the
duty on rutn imported might b<i increased. It
would have one of two good effe£ts; ; t
either produce more revenue, or less would be con
sumed.
Mr. L. said, he Humid, therefore vote against
the principle, as it was not possible so to detail it as
to comport wiih the interests of the country ;
Bffides that it was not neceffory to referf to this
article of taxation, us the imports and excise might
be so regulated as to produce revenue fulncient.
The article of fait had beertmentioned as a pro
per article for an additional duty. He knew it was
productive: but it could never be the ifitereft of
any country to tax fait ; he thought it the *io(t
oppressive that could be laid. He would not, there
' fore, be underftoed to fay, that in voting against a
diieCt tax, that he meant to vote for a tax on fait.
He thought, indeed, that there wsre f>matiy
other articles whieh would admit a higher duty,
that there was no neceflity for resorting to that. It
would leally be an extraordinary thing, if, af; er
declaring this country free and profperojis eyoud
all. calculation, it (hould be brought into such a
lituation, as that nothing could save it but direCt
taxation. He fondly hoped, he said, we were a
free, enlightened and flourifhing country. He
wished he could fay that the government had used
our peculiar advantages to the bed parpafe; but
everyone viewing the proportion before them, must
be of a different opinion. We mull, said he, either .
believe the United States are not prosperouS, ©r
that the natural eaufes of our prosperity had been
defeated. -, - . — ; i
Mr. tr-ftrtflf lie "dtff not, mean to take longer
time of the committee, the fubjeCi having already
undergone a very copious difcufiion. /
Mr. Findley hoped the tax, which was the sub
jeCt of their diffusion, had been so long in con
templation, that members would have been more
ready to have met it. It was admitted the laCt
fe®on to be necessary, and the secretary of the
treasury had been direCted to report a plan. At
that time they were convinced more revenue waa
wanted ; that by anticipations, and other caufis,
we were in a filiation to require a direCt tax ; but
no& they heard that the iS was impiaCticable, un
wise, impolitic and unjust. *
He objeCted to its being impracticable ; indeed
this had rather teen suggested than proved, and he
had been surprised to hear such a charge. To fay
11 that so important a thing as the laying of a tax on
. land was impracticable, was a moll extraordinary
t assertion ; but he trulted, as it had been found per-
I fedtly practicable in most of the (tates, it \yould be
. found practicable with us. It had been perfectly
. practicable, and most effectual, he said, in the (late
; of Pemifylvania ; and if so there, why not practi
cable in the present cafe ?
The gentleman from Maffachufetfs (Mc. W.
t Lyman) had said that in some parts of the coun
. try the people were more numerous than in others';
i and that a direCt tax would call upon them to pay
t according to their numbers. Were not the manu
facturers, he said, who might pay tjiis, exempted
from the impost duty, (which would be equal to the
diriCt tax which they -were called upon to pay ; and
t indeed if they were no! called upon lor a direCt tax \
y they would pay no tax at all. But with refpeS to
e individual injury, he said it would beasjult as any
0 other tax ; the principle was more jult, becaule
ie land would be taxed only in proportionVu its value.
n No inditeCt tax would operate equally, but would , ,
be more unequal than this.
i- But it was laid this tax would fall upon theeoru
jf i sum«r 4 only. He differed in opinion from the gen
ie ; tlenwn from Massachusetts in this respect. 'Wraith
ie and industry, he said, mult pay taxes. Indultry
it was the cause of wealth. A lax may be levied
n- upon the poll ; but it mult be paid out of wealth.-'
ie But it was said wealth could not be found ; it
could not be found, it v/f/f true, in t
ri-1 hut in thole in which it w.is visible and ex-poled.
n- I Was there a greater mass of wealth than land i cer
if- i tainly not. It was said that it'difcouraged cultiva
d, lion ; but it did no such thing.
n- ! Mr. F. said, Pennfylvsnia had always been in the
be habit of collecting direCt taxes, whiilt a culidv, and
at since. This tax had the effeSt to prevent the land
in from being engrossed, and kept it in fmnll iraCis.
ka DireCt taxes were not imputed until indircCt taxea
ad had been tried to the greateii extent.
iral Mr. F. said there were greater landnj t dates thaa
ler i any other ; and why should they ci'. ;« a sax. It
it. could not be supposed that he could advo ate. this
it) tax from any other motive than pri'tuple, (nice
er- the whole of his property and that of iris conltitu
>fa ents was lanok; but, said he, we coufidcr it is a
re- jult and equal tax. It is n»t unpopular ; we think.
r.a- it [fceferabli to an indireCt tax. People in towns,
he said, paid for every thing they eat, drii«k, o*
:ti- wear, therefore paid most of the impoli duty,
iu J tbey drd not pay much of it, and therefore wouid
lg- not obJeCt to a lmall tax or. their land.
Mr. F. fiid he had observed a i.onteft in that
house between the agricultural and trading interests,
thought-it was 100 early a-day tn have i»-
troi'ilced that kind of fpiiit. If they lock a vie*
of the countrry, or of the members in that house,
they found one or the other almost altogether agri
cultural. Tt was certainly the molt productive
10 1 property in the unioß, and why (hot 'i it not fay
® : ita share of the public expense?
am- i The prosperity of the commercial interests, de.
1 et . pended principally on agriculture, and a direA UK
. was necessary to equalize, the taxes.
aol. Salt, be said, had beeu wentiored for au add«-
ear» i tional duty. This was a most necessary asticle for
ita- the poor. Sugar alio, though it had been called a
:oo- luxury ; tin he believed it was become from habit
lials a necessary of life.. Bohea tea was an article used
that by the poorer elaffes also. If this principle of ux
. at- iog the poor prevailed ifl our ias,»i : if they ivcis la
*0 ' .* >1take trees where they could get them, he did not ««
know where they (hould Hop. . 0
Was it not a little surprising, he said, I»fee the
members of that heufe, whose estates were mostly h;
in land, so desirous of avoiding a land-tax ? How ol
would this look to the people ? Would it not ap- bi
pear as if they were determined to put off the bur- le
den from their own shoulders?
For his part, he was so convinced, from moral
and political ground, of the neceflity and policy of
the meafur'e, thathefhould vote for thf resolution.
[To be Continued.]
\
AND-
Philadelphia Daily Advertiser. m
•< gjj,
PHILADELPHIA,' February 16. t
James Rofs Esq. is chosen Senator of the Uni- 'J
ted States, by a majority cf 18.
In Senatt »f the United States,
February IJ, 1797- \
On request, the Vice Preftdent of the United «
States being excufcd from further attendance in Se
nate during the feffian, addressed them as follows:
Gentlemen of the Senate,
If, in the general apprehension of an intention to ,
retire in that most eminent citizen, to whom all „
eyes had been directed and all hearts attracted, as a
the center of our union for so long a period ; the "
public opinion had exhibited any clear indications '
of another, ia whom our fellow citizens could have
generally united ; as soon as 1 read that excellent t,
address which announced the neceflity of delibera- J
tion in the choice of a President, I should hare imi- 1
tated the example of a chara£ter, with-which I had !''
co-operated, though in less conspicuous and im- c
portant stations, and maintained an uninterrupted z
friendfhip for two and twenty years. But as anum- t
ber of chara&ers appeared to stand in the general '
estimation, so nearly on i level, as to render it dif- L
ficult to on which the majority would 'j
fall; considering the relation in which I flood to 1 c
the people of America, 1 thought it most refpeift- i
ful ko them, and most conducive to the tranquility J
•f the public mind to resign mylelf with others, a j '
silent fpeftatorof the general deliberation and apis- ■
five fubjeft of public difeufiions.
Deeply penetrated with gratitude to my coun- ' I
trymen in general, for their long continued kind- ! '
ness to me, and for that fteadjf and affe£ling con- ; '
fidence, with which those who have moll intimately \
known me, from early life, have on so many great ' t
occasions, entrulled to me, the eare of their dear- >
eft interests ; since a majority of their ele&ois, tho'
a very small one, have declared in my favor, and
since, in a republican government, the majority
though ever so small rauft of neceflity decide, I
have determined at every hazard of a high but just
Tefpontibility, though with much anxiety and
diffidence, more to engage in their service.—
Their confidence which has been the chief consola
tion of my life, is too precious and fa-.-red a depo
litever to be considered lightly. As it has been
founded onlv on the t4ie heart, ir never
has hcep, it never can be, deceived, betrayed, or
forfeited by me.
It is with reluctance, and with all those emoti
ons of g'atitude and affeftiun, which a long expe
rienee i f your goodness ought to inspire that I now
retire from my feat in this House and take my
leave of the members of the Senate.
I ought not to declare, for the last time, your
adjournment, before 1 have prefented'to every Sena
tor prefeut, and to every ciuzen who has ever been
a Senator of the United my thanks, for
the candor and favor invariably received from them
all. It is a recolledtion, of which nothing can ever
deprive me, and it will ba a source of comfort to,,
v«r>e, through the remainder of my life, that, as on
the one hand, in a government cotrllituted like ours,
I have for eight years held the second situation un
der the constitution of the United States, in perfefl
and uninterrupted harmony with the fii ft, without
envy in one, or jealoufv in the other : fa un the
other hand I have never had the fmallelt mifunder
-1 Handing with any member of the Senate. In all
the aullrufe queftt'ons, difficult conjun&ures, dan
gerous emergencies, and animated debates upon the
great intcrefts of our country, which have so often
anii.fo deeply impressed all our minds, and interest
ed the strongest feelings of the heart, I
perienccd a uniform politeness and refpe& fro»i
every quarter of the house. When questions of
Ho leL importance than difficulty, have produced
H difference offentiment (and differences of opinion
will always be found in free affemoiies of men, and
probably the greatefl diversities upon the grcateft
questions) when the Senators have been e
qually divided, and my opinion has been demand
ed according to, the constitution, I have constantly
found, iw that moiety of the Senators, from whose
judgment I have been ohliged to uiffent a difpofi
tioa to allow me the fame freedom of deliberation
ano independence of judgment which they asserted
for themfelvei.'
Within thtfe walls, for a course of years, I have
been an admiring witness of a lucceflion of infor
mation, eloquence, patriotism and independence,
which, at they would have done honor t» any Se
nate in any age, afford a cbnfolatory (if the
Legislatures of the States are equally careful in
their future selections, which there is no reason to
diftrbfl) that no council morr permament than this
a« a branch us the Legislature will be necessary, to
defend the rights, liberties and properties of the
people, and to protedl the constitution of the Uni
ted States as well as the conffituticirs and rights of
the individual Rates, against errors of judgment, ir
regularities of the passions, or other encroachments
of human infirmity or more reprehensible enter
prize, in the executive on on* hand or the more im
mediate representatives of the people on the other.
Tbefe conliderations will all conspire to animate
me in my future courfj, with a confident teliance,
tuat as far as my conduct lhall be uniformly measur
ed by the Constitution of the United States and
faithfully diretled to the public good, I (hall be (up
ported by the Stnate as well as by the House of Re
prcittntiiinei and the people at large; and ea 00 uther
conditions any support at all to be expe&ed
or deliied.
With cardial wilhes for your honor, health and u»
happiness, and fervent .prayers for a continuation tic
of the virtue*, liberties, prosperity and peace of our ha
beloved country, I avail myfelf of your leave of *b- m
fence for the remainder of the fefiion.
P<
B
CAZKT7E MARINE LIST. tl]
~— bi
Boston, February 6. (j,
Arrived—Brigs Aurora, Bartlett, Martinique, %2 days ;
Almira, Wait, Guadeloupe, 26 ; Scb'rs. Ranger, Eojlerbrooks,
St. 1 drtholomcws. 12 days; Lydia, Hooper, Cadiz, 86 ;—,
Hackett, Guadeloupe, 30 ; President, Holbrook, A/rJierdsir., 99 ; '
, Kj.owles, Demerare, 26. - ' HI
Brig Almira, arrivedye/lerday, from Guadeloupe and St. ci
mas's, 26 and 11 days, left at the former, Jan. It,brigs Hqn- c(
nab, IViley ; Uovi, IVyatt ; Hannah, Chafe; William, Smith 1
Union , and fch'r , Goodhue ; all of Newbury-
Port;—-Jblp Franklin, Gibaut, Salem; brig Hannah, Jejfery,
of New-York ; fbip ' Furlong, Baltimore; Jbip •—, fw
Smith, ditto ; ( condemnedJ brig Neptune, Blaichard, of North gf
Yarmouth ; (condemned) Scb'r Suecefs, Bullock, arrived, Jan.
2, dfmafledon the 2ytb Nov. and lojl one man overboard. She
was from an eajlern port, bound to Brfion.
Capt. Wait learnt, that ten failof American vejfels, blown off "
our eoafi, bad arrived at Antigua, and two at St. Thomas's, g"
New Lonbon, February 9, E
Tali of distkesi. ct
At one o'clock in the morning of Jan. 30, the brig Folly, Pe
rez Chef thorough, majler, hound into this part, ran on a reef, at
the S. IV. end of Block-Iflarid ~ The boat being boified out, filial 1
and broke her fafi. At driy-trreak they were difcovjred by the IJU w
andere, who repaired to the beach ; but having no boat, were un- kl
der the necefjity of remaining some time idle fpeflators of a /hod- (j;
f'ene. Expelling no relief from fbore, and believing to re
main on board would be certain death, as the vejfel had filled, end «
began to separate, the captain determined to endeavor to swim to
the beach, dijlant but about ten rods. He threw himfelf into the '
fei, and was soon after followed by the Aiatc, and a Mr. John
Fullerton, of Kdnnebeok, whe was a passenger. The captain end tl
j mate rcaebed the fwajh, and, were drawn on Jborc much bruised, g
and to appearance Ifelefs ; but Afr. Fullerton funk, and his body
could not be found The humane inhabitants here the captain f"d
mute in their arms to a neighboring house ; and by proper treatment
refiored the/rt to life. In the mean time others were lwficd in draw- '■
ing a boat across the ijland, which in getting off, twice filled in the lj
breakers.; but, by a third exertion, two noble-fpirifed men rowed ,J
along-fie'e; when they found John Goulds of Lyme, a mariner,
frozen to death ; and dreadful to relate, a few momentspreeeding,
a f ur £e pat ting the quarter-deck, a negro man Jell into the oben- 0
ing as deep as his middle, andtbe fucceeiing waveolofedthe space °
so far that they were unable to extricate him, and he was left in it
I ihut agonizing situation to perijh. The remainder of the crew,
! three negroes, wtre landed in fajcty. Soon after, the vessel went
j wholly to pieces.
I Tht brig was owned byrneff. Elijha Hinman and Samuel Hurl
'■ but, of this city ; bad been with a cargo of fait to the fonth'tvard, e
| and not meeting a market, was returning honre. Injur ance was t
| made by tire owners* to Wilmington, whim it ceased, oiving to not .
: having intelligence from the captain- The loss therefore falls bea
:vy upon, two enterprising and ufeful citizens. 1 Capt., Hinman in- U
. furi'd in this city, and the underwriters have very gencroufly relin
quijhodto brm bis bond. Capt. Ifurlbut iafured in Bofion. a
Baltimore, February 13. a
Captain Culhman, of the lcliuoner Sally, left at 11
Jacmel, January 22, the follrawing vessels : t
Ship fiiendftiip, Smith j brigg Far/ny, Hopkins; 1
FelPs Point, Creighton ; Ichooncrs Eetiy Lloyd, t
Allinfoa ; Eagle, Anderfon—all ot Baltimore ; j
snow Mary, Rich ; schooner Patty, .Stafford, Boi
toil {--lchooner Hopr, Butler, Charlcfton.
January 28, off favVa French cruiser,
captured by a British b>i£. She had prcvn;a(ly
taker) an American fchooncr (then in light J bound j
trom St Mark's to the United States, «ud had un ,
board her mate and two hands. I
Nosuolk, February 6.
On Saturday arrived here the schooner Tele- I
graphe, captain Paul Gold, w 2 1 days stum Jac- '
qycimel, bound to Baltimore. Informs, that no A- 1
met leans had been carried in there. Left there,
Ship Friendship, capt. ,of Baltimore, fiom '
Spanith St. Bl mirigo.
Brig Fanny, Hupkira, of and from Baltimore :
loading. •
Btii» Sally, Cufhman, of ditto, to fail in todays.
Snow Fell's Point, Craytoir, of ditto, to fail in
4 weeks. . .
Scht. Beifey Loyd, Eilifon, of do. to fail in 3
, weeks
S.-hi. Eagle, Bnmberry, of do. loading.
Sehr. Eagle, Anderfon, of do, to fail in todays.
Schr. Polly, , of do. just arrived.
■ Schr. Hope, Butler, of Chailelton, to fail in 10
days.
' Schr. Eagle, ftamfay, ot Philadelphia, to fail
■ tne next day.
: 4>now Mary, , of Boftan', felling.
1 Schr. Success, , o< Bafton, to fail for Aux
- Cayes.
Schr. Perfeveranee, Purviance, of Baltimore,
r Capt. Purviance died 10 days after his arrival ; a
f captain Burnes of Baltimote took charge of her—
-1 gone to Leogane.
1 On the 14th of January, off Tiburon, spoke
1 the Sanfpareil 28 gun Britifti frigate, who puffed
1 one hand.
Jan 17, off the Platform, spoke the Briiifh ftip
- Lyon, bouwd up the Bight, who informed that a
I fleet of British traufports together with some Ame
e ricanl, were to fail from the-Mole on the x~Bth Ja
nuary, for this coali, under convoy of several (hips
rt of war.
i Jan. 28, in lat. 3*, long. 75, ij, was boarded by
a 12 gun Bermudian sloop, Captain Smith, on a
e cruize.
Same day arrived the (hip Juliana, captain Hay
, ward, 12 days from Porto Rica. The following
- are the names of the captured American vessels car
e ricd into the port of Caboroxa, ia the above island.
II Brig Resolution, Moore, of Portfmauth, New
o Hampshire, from Demarara—cargo condemned.
s Schooner Neptune, A. Pease, of Savannah, from
o Grenada—rreffel and cargo condemned,
e Schooner Shetucket, Botfdtfh, of Newhaven;
i- also fromGrt uda—reffel and cargo condemned.
if Captain Hay ward was on his passage frero- Ham
burg to Baltimore, afid was captured oa the 4th
:s day of [anuary last, in the latitude of 33, 30, lon
r- gitude 72, 5, by the prize brig Active (taken br
1- Commodore Barney)* then three days out from
r. Hampton Roads, without any commiflion The
;« A&ive rounded too under the fhips's fternj fired a
e, gun at her, ordered captain Hayward to hoitt t>ot
r- his boat, detained the caprain and fix hands, and
id sent nii.e French sailors on board the Juliana }they
j- then proceeded to Porto-Rico, where the Juliana
t- was given up to captain Hayward after few days
ir d.umitfit, and he obliged to pay all cxpcacc%
LONDON, Decembfr io.
By the laii arrival from Paiis we are given to
unceriiand that the future progress of the
tion cannot be made so public as the previous flcps i
have been. It is said tfcat Lord Malmcfjury iirti- I
mated to M. de la Croix,
" That he had afluranee of being authoiiied to La
propose fp'ecific tcrfns of conceifion, but that his |
Britanic Majedy did not think that the ohjeil ot
the negotiation was Kkely to be prumoterf by the ha- I
bit of publifhingthe official communications on both
fides, thereby exciting the pafiions of the public on I
the tppicsin difcuflion before they were maturely
weighed. It was his desire, therefore, to suggest ..
the prudence of abstaining from this practice so new
i» this diplomacy, and to recommend that the fpe- I
cific terms ofconccffion «n both fides fliould be con- I
cealed until she proportions had undergone, at ieaft, I
a fair and uninfluenced difculfion." j ,
The answer of the Directory to the foregoing
fut>eeftion is liated to have been to tlfe following .
effea: , . lel
" That they bad chosen the concourse of public I
difcufiion, that all the world might be made par-
ties to the negociation, and judge between the two
governments ; but if was the desire and taftc of the
English court to prefer a close deliberation, they 1P c
could havrf no obje&ions."
It appears from the account by this chanral, that .
tranquility is. at length reflored to the counting that
were foase time since declared to be out of the
king's peace. The winter, in the filter kingdom, nt
has set in with very unulual rigor.
The whig club in Ireland, after a mature inquiry a 1
into the (late of the reprelentation of the people
in parliament, have refolvid, that'they are of opin- w
ion that, for the purpose of giving to the people V*
thcirj due and conditutional (hare in the legislature,
a reform in parliament is indifpenfibly necessary, and
that the emancipation of the Roman catholicks
should make a fundamental and essential part of the
fame ; and that they consider tbofe measurer as like
ly toeftablith public fatisfa&ion and tranquility, and
promote an union in support of king and countty. ta
Yelleiday advices were received at the admiralty, Q j
of the loss ot the Undaunted frigate, of 40 guns,
which foundered in a gale of wind on the Jamaica ej
Italian, but all her crew were fortunately saved. ej)
MONEY SENT TO THE EMPEROR.
The money fefit to the Emperor is ta be colleft
rd out of two diftiuA papers laid upon the table of 0
the houfeof commons, namely, out of the paper in- o]
titled " An account of the diltribuiion ot the sum z
of 2,500,0001. granted to his majelty for extraor- t i
ditiary services (thevote-of ciedit of' 96);" and a
also iu the account of the exttaordinarics of the }
army. It is material toobferve the datesof the ad
mittance, from yrhich our readers will f-e whether Q
the service wag of a nature which the muiillcr could I f
not forefee, or that the money was remitted when
he could not lake the opinion of parliament on the j
propriety of the expenditure. I f.
WORCESTER, (MafTachufetts) February 8. j '
Its M.-.RKA'BLL accident. I
Northborough, "January n, *797. I 0
On; tHe j»Xih O&ober Uft, two ,'oos of Mr. Artemat J I:
of Northborougli, were drawing water at a I
well, wtieu instantly the well crotch fell j the sweep I \
flruck one, a hoy about fourie«n years'old, on one fide I f
of his head and u&derjaw j the other fide of the jjw ,
fell'on the edge of a wash-tub, which broke and split I
it in fe-eral piece*. The other son very narrowly ef- i
caped with a small wound on his thigh. I was imme- I .
diately called for 11 afurgeou : —reduced the fraflured I
j»w, and with much difficulty, kept it in place. In a- ]
boujelcvtn days I removed the dreflings, and, upon I
examination, found a protuberance under the jaw, I ;
which I supposed to be a large piece of the fractured I
<jaw bene, that.rauA coinc out. I made an incision
through the (kin upon it, December 1, .vnd took out a I
middling large walnut, which was cruSatd in urider I
the roots of the tonjrne, and there lodged for the space I
of 34 days. Now thejaw is almolt well, and in toler- I
able good ihape, and can rnaftieate almost as well as I
ever. stiphin ball, jun. I
NEW-HAVEN, February 8.
Extract of a letter from Petit Guave, up the Bite I
> of Leogane, 19th Nov.
" A mulatto by the name ot Gallon, is at the
1 head of adminiflraton in this place—a more artful I
insinuating man 1 never saw, and a more complete
infamousfcounciel the fun never (hone upon. There I
- are now lying here seven American veflels which
were brought in, in consequence of the orders iffii I
cd by the commifiioiiers of the Cape, making all I
' Americans bound to or from British ports lawful I
- prizes—they have been lying here from 2 to 3 I
months, during which time their cargoes have been
- taken from them without the form of trial, mcye
1 than three fou-ths of the men (captains and failois) I
have fallen a factific4.to the fever, and the remain- I
) ing fourth are more Mike walking gholts than living I
» men—mod of them destitute of money and not a- I
■ ble to £[ivc a decent burial to their men when dead. I
- But judge yourfglf of this Gallon, this inhuman I
s wretch, he has been round to the people who board - I
ed the unfortunate Americans, and advised them
f to turn them out of dnors, telling them that they
> had not ner would have money to pay their expen- 1
ces, " turn the poor devils out, fays be, and let
them die and go to hell," this was a speech from I
g the tuft man in this place, from the man on who's
•- will depends the pr**.«rty of all the Americans who
I. eorae to this port. Under the frame of puichafing 1
he takes by force, if not voluntarily deliveied what I
he pleases, and promises to pay without the lead I
n regard to his word and honor—A few days since |
he enticed a Philadelphia schooner here with flour, I
f, by promising the captain (who came h/re from
Leogane, where his vefTel was lying) * upon his fa
-- cred word and honor, that be would take notiiing
h from him ; —relying on this, be came with his vef
-- fcl, but had no (oener arrived, but Gafton orders a
y guard on board, and takes all his lour from him.
n There are now lying at the several ports in the Bite,
ie 51 American fail, brought in by these lawless pi-!
a rates, and I believe I speak moderately when I fay
it half their crews have died with the fever.
id The brig Susan, Major Lines from this port
:y % carried into Guadaloupe—The Republic have
1a taken his cargo—oxen at 6 joes—beef 15 dollars—
ys payment made in bilk ttu Ftau;c, at 6 Booths fight
k hc vcffcl clcarcd.
J[. V * N / "
By this day's Alails.
NEW-YORK, February Is. •
In the London Morning Herald, we find the
following article, cxsiaftcd from a French paper
called L'Ami deS Loix.
• I.eydcn, November 7.
' In the fitting of the Batavian National
ventic.i of the 3d, a letter was read friim citixen
Noel, miniiler of the French republic, by which»
on the part of the Executive Dire<ftory, he- makes
the following communication i
«' That as the negociation commenced with l»rd
Malmefbury at Paris, appeared to have a tendency ,
t» a general PEACE ; and, as the Direflory, ia
all the treaties hitherto concluded, had conllantly
had at heart, the interests of the Batavian republic, >
they invited the National Alfembly to name a per
son invested with the neceflaiy powers to condudt
the intertfts of the Batavian republic, in the pre
sent negociation." ,
« The letter adds, that in such circumstances,
the two republics ought to afiilt each other mutu
ally by councils as well as actions, and it was there"
fore wilhed that the perfoo appointed for this im
portant purpose might repair as speedily as poTUble
to Paris.
• It was dacreed that the coremifiion for foreign
affairs (hould arffwer this letter ; and at tbe fame
time make known to Mr. Noel, that the perfoni
nominated and authorised for this purpose, were
aitizens Leftevenon, Pa (leer and Meyeur, who ate
already at Paris.' ,
Upon the above it is obvious to remark, that
whatever may be thought of the sentiments cob«
tained in the official correspondence between lard
Malmefbury and Charles de la Croix, it is aaALtr
the opinion of tbe Dire&ory, that Peace will pro
bably cnlue from the present negociation.
NEW-YORK, Febroary 13.
The bill for felling the 6 per cent and deferred
flock of the United States, belonging to the State,
to the Bank of New York, has pal Ted the Hoiifa
of AfTembly by the large majority ot 67 to 17.
It has pulled in the mode, originally proposed |
excepting that the treafmrer or comptroller is te be,
ex officio, one of the dire&ors.
The bill will no doubt also pass the Senate.
InvafioH »f Portugal.
A London paper ef Nov. 29, dates that the
Court of Portugal had tent for an emigrant officer
of hi£h cliara&ei (the ci-devant Marquis de la Rv
ziere) the* in England, to tnke the comma-id of
I the Portuguese army ; and thac a frigate had been
appointed ta convey him to Lisbon.
Capture of Amhyna.
The London Gazette of Nov. 29, contains aa
| official account of the capture of the valuable Dutch
AGatic idands of Banda and Amboy'na, with their
several dependencies by the English squadron un«
I der admiral Rainier. The ad. fotind in the trea
sury of Amboyna, 81,112 rix dollars, and in ttore
I S l s i94°bbls. of cloves ; in the treasury of Banda,
I 65,675 dollars and 84,777 lb. of nutmegs, 19,5871b
of ma.-e, befidcs merchandize and other (lores which.
] not yet been eltimated.
The fctllemeuts obtained favorable terms ; pri
-1 vate propei ty to be secured, and the servants of the
fotincr companies, and the adminillration of the
government (the governors excepted) to ieroaia
j unchanged. t_
The Telegraph, a London oppefition print of
I Dec. 5, givts the following :
" The people of France (however faltidious the
I Dite&ory seems in its treaty tor peace) are very
1 anxious to terminate the war. Lord Malmefbury
1 went lately a little way from P ris to a dinner t»
1 I which he was invited, the populace alarmed at this
. I movement, ftopt him, not would they disperse till
. I they were assured that he did 'not mean to depart
- I the country—the people of France and England
> know their own intciells, however the government
I disregard them."
POUT OF PHILADELPHIA,
C , ARRIVE*.
Ship Alexander Hamilton, Kirkbride, Liverpool
c 1 via New-York, -.7
I I Brig Eliza, Arnold, Malaga
Welcome Return, Labree, Savannah
c I Elizabeth, Fuller ton, St. Thomas's
e I Diligent, Ware, New-York 4
1 I Peggy, Hardy, Amflerdam 77
Brandywin* Miller, , St. Groix,
I I via Norfolk 8
CLEARED.
I Brig Cincinnatus, Bayley, Norfoll;.
3 Brig Peggy, Hardy, failed from Amflerdam, Nov*
n ij. Left there the following veflels—
e Ship Greyhound, . , of Charleftoa
) I , Downs, Boftoa
i- , Boyd, Rhode liland
, I At the mouth of the Texel.
I Ship Birmingham Packet, Miller, of Philadelphia
John k Mary, Coit, Bolton
Minerva, Clarkfos, New-York
n I Mary, Arnold, . Rhode-Island
1" I Leeds Packet, Few York
n I Bsig Pomona, King, Philadelphia
y I Ship Clothier, Gardner, of this port, on her voyage
from Amflerdam to Surinam, was detained at the -
, t I month of Sui inam river by a British man of war, aud
I ordered for Demerara, where (he has since arrived.
" Ship Columbus, Vauueek, failed from Liverpool
s I the day before the President.
° Sales of Depreciation Land.
II TO THE PUBLIC.
WHEREAS a number of tra&s of lind commonly c«lle4
:c I Depreciation land, formerly in Weftznoreland, now in Alle
r, 1 gany county, were fold at Greenfburg, in the montk of au»
m I gust last, by thefcommiffioneis ot Weftmoreland, for taxei
I pretended to be due for Allegany county, in the year 1789 :
a " I and whereas tke said ttxes were not l'*ally affefled, nor
g I the said commiflioners authorized to aft, nor due notice of
f. I the iiiteoded sale given,tht commifHaneia for a pretended tax
a I not exceeding in the whole 231 dollars, having fold £3<33J
I acres of valuable land.
J The proprietors lake this method of cautioning all perfoot
C, J against making payments to the said commiflioners for any
>i- I purchases made of them, or of purchasing any part of the
I laid lands from any oihcr person, as they msan to defend their
1 property so illegally fold, as well againU the coniiniflione f
| aforefaid, as all other per lons pretending to hole} uftdtr
irt I them.
ve I For the information of their fellow-citi«cns they pr«.
I pose fhertly to give a ftatcment of the combination formed
I for the purchafc of this property, au4 the names of the
I persons concerned tiurcia.
February ri. c«d4tLancq/ier, Harrijburgh, CarlJJe, Ship
penjburg and. Sunbury
S T A G E S.
The public are reqiiefted to take notice, that the part
nership which has for some time, fabfiftcd between Mathi
a> Slough of Lancaster, vnd William Geer, is now difl®!-
ved : but, Tiot ( as M. Slough infinuatcs to the public
vvithout/'ufl cause ; as will more fully appear by a letter
on the fubje<sfc from M. Slough t® VV. Geer" dated the
29th ? December last. a recital of which is not now deemed
neceflary. Any gentLman who wishes to be more cir~
cuirftantially informed of the merits of this business, by
applying" to W. Geer may have tlft; perusal of M. Slouch's
lett«r, and then can be at full liberty to determine whe
ther or not W. Geer is not perfe&ly juftffiabie in attach
ing himlelf to any other pcrfon in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenfburg,
or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the public
were pleased to cohfer on the firft effort in this business,
William Geer, in conjun(slion with Meflrs. Reily, Weed
and Witmer, is determined to prosecute and ca?ry it on,
with every care, attention and dispatch that a scai to o
blige the public can poftbly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided with
carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to reader the
passage fafe and commodious, inform those who wifn to
patronize and encourage the undertaking, that tftey can
take their feats at George Weed's, the lign of the White
Horse, Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,£)arlifle
and Shipperi(burg. The fare as hitherto eftabliftied.
For the further accommedation of the public, a Stage
will start every Wednesday from the house .ps Samuel
Elder, ia Harrifburg, arrive at Sunbury in Northumber
land county, every Thursday, and return from the®ce and
arrive at .Harhlburg every Saturday, so that passengers
destined for JLancalfcer or Philadelphia, may. proceed o<n
Mondays.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. ii 7, 1797. #
N. B. This Liiieof Stages ftarta from the house of
William Ferree, in Lancaster, on every Tuesday and Sa
turday mcirning at-6 o'clock, proceeding to the westward;
and from the house of Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg
every Wednesday morning, on the fame evening arrives
at Patrick Cochran's is Shipj/enfburg, and returns from
thence on every Thursday : performing] the fame routine
daily as in its tour from Philadelphia. mwf
SWAN N'S
Riding School, Horse Academy & Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square. Market Sutet.
T. SWANN
RETURNS hisfincere thanks tothofe gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, daring his residence in this City, and
flattershimfelf that the success of his etfoits, in the numerous,
obstinate and dangerous diseases in Horses, in which he has
been consulted, together with his moderate charges, will fc-1
ure their future favors and recammendation.
He now begs leave to ii Jorm them and the public at large
that his spacious and commodious pcemifes, ere&ed for the
purposes above defenbed are open for the reception of pupils
of either sex, who wifli to beinftru&ed in the Art of Riding,
and the right method of governing their horses, so as to ride
them with ease, elegance, and fafety—their horses will be
carefully and expeditiously broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient to: he wiil of the riders ; the natural poweri
which are (hut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all those beauties of a&ion which providence has so bounti
fully bellowed 00 them.
Also, at his hospital, every disorder to which the horse is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repealed experience.
The utility of the above institution has never been qneftion
• ed, that it has long bee* wanted in this city, every gentleman's
stud will manifeft, and T. Swann as the fit ft eftablifher of
the veterenary art', solicits and relies upon the fuppoit of that
public (which he is ever an*iOus in serving) to enable him to 1
bring it to perfe&ion. The idea of a lubfeription for that
purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who wish to
promote the institution—the amount of each fubfeription to
be returned by fervicej, in any of the departments, he profeffes,
agreeable to the rate of charges stated in his hand bill. Swch
fublcription is now open, and the signatures of many refpefl
able gentlemen already obtained. He therefore injorms hi 1 \
friends and such Latiies and gentlemen to whom he has not 1
the honor of being knowr., that he ihall in a few days take I
the liberty of waiting upon them and soliciting their support <
and protection.
N. B. Horses are properly prepared for, those Ladiesaod
Gentlemenwho wiftj to be instructed.
. Nov S . tth&C.
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third street.opposite the national new Bank* '
SAMUEL M FR-iUNCKS and JOHN VAN REED* '
have entered into co-partnerlhip, under the firm of z
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers, '
Conveyancers and Commission merchants. They buy and
fell on commission every species -of flock, notes of hand, C
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c. ' 1
Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds c<
writings in the conveyancing line, done wuh neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
most correct manner. Constant attendance will be given,
solicit a fharS oT the public favor; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it. r
N. B. The Jitmoit secrecy observed.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED. "
l7, 1796. m&wtf ,
James M'Alpin* : ~ b
No. 3, South Fourthjlreet,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments -to his
Friends and the Public for their liberal cncff.-agmiant, P
•and begs leave to solicit a continuance of their favors. ' "
He has on hand an extensive aflortment of the
Mofi Fajhionable GOODS., f!
And of the bed quality, suitable for the feafoc. &
At this (hop Gentlemen cad be furnilhed withthe bell
materials, and havethem made op in the neatest and most fa
•aJhionahle manner, and on the /horteft noticc. He will th
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
yunilual attention., to them.
_ Novemlier 10. ws
This Day is Published,
By BIOREN 'Cf MADAN," at their Printing Office
No 77, Docfc.ftreet, and fold by the principal T
Bookfcllers in this City. X
The American Annual Register ; ft
Or historical Memoirs of the United States, for the fr<
Year 1796.
' No. 167. ( cIl
TjtJtrTß of Ptnnfylvania, to ivrt : , -
. h j; erncmbcred > lhat °n the 19th thy of January r Y
in the Twenty-firft year of the Independence of the wc
United States of America, Bioren & Madan of tbe said an '
diflria have dqv . ed in this Office the title of a Book un
the Right whereot they claim as Proprietors in the H<
words fallowing to wit: ma
" The Amtrican Annual Register, or Historical 34
" Memoirs of the United States, for the year 1706 te "
In conformity to the ad of the Cengrefs of' the
United States entituUd « An a,a for the encourage
jnent of learning bp fecuting the copies of Maps u
Charts and Books, to th« authors and proprietors of T'
Jrieh copies during the time thereia mentinned." '
Samuel Caldwell, si r s
Clerk Pennlj'lvanra Diftria.
> nalr y «• ia.w 4 1
■p. PROPOSALS,
For carrying the Mails of the Unite*)
STAT£S,
irt- On the follo'ivt'ig Pojl Roads, ivill.be recthed until
hi- ' thefir jl day of March next inciu/ive -
I. From CaarlcilvH, S. C. by Jackfcnhoro' and Goofa
'^c hatchy, Co iJavahcab, twice a week- tiic Vlail
ter at Charleston evcrf Tueiday and Friday l>y 6, P. M. and
c^e deliver it at Savannah the next Friday and Monday, by 8
ie( * A. M. Returning, receive the Mail at Savannah tvs y
: ' r " Saturday, by 6, P.M. and Wednefd3y by 6, A. M. and
h Y deliver it at Charleston the next Tuesday and Friday
by nocn.
Ie " Pnop of ah for this route will he received by the at
Savannah.
>he fromCoofahatchy to Beaufort once a week—
r€> Receive the mail at Cpofahatchy every Thurldey by 6,
p. m. and deliver it at Beaufort by noon on Friday. Re-*
leave Beaufort every Friday by 3, p. m. and arrive
at Coofahatchy on Saturday by 8, a. m.
' Propofals'for carrying the iruit on this route will be ra
in, ceived by the poit-maller at Beaufort.
°" Note 1. Tic Poft-niafter General may alter the times
for the arrival and departure of th« mails at any time- du
ith r j n g, continuance of the contraSs, he previeuily ftipu
;^e lating an adequate compensation for any extoa expence
t0 that may be occasioned thereby.
Note a. For every hours deiay (unavoidable accidcnts
,ce excepted) in arriving after, the times prescribed by con
*Y tra&, the contra&or lhall forfeit one dollar, and if the
" e delay continue until the departure of any depending mail
an additional forfeiture of five dollars lhall be incurred.
s e Note Should any person making proposals desire an
IC I alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpc*-
r " cjfied, he mull Hate the alteration desired a»d the price
* he will jcarry the mail for with and witkout such alte-
Ts ration.
w Note 4. The contra&s are to be in operation 021 the
firft day of April next and to continue until the 30th of
September in the year 1800.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
of P»ft Mailer General.
a- General Post Offiee,
i; Philadelphia, Jan. 13,1797.3
'g 16. aaw6w.
es .
"e Particular . TenerifFe Wine.
5° Quarter-Calks Particular Teneriffe WINE,
Of a fuperipr Quality,
For sale by A. MARFLE & IS. IV. MORRIS,
No- 60 Dock-street. i
February 8 wf&mi2t
™ By Authority.
s d Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
,1 Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, N«. 64,
South Second-Jlreet.
, e SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
ie For railing Sixty Thouland Dollars, agreeably to an Aft of
Is the Legislature of Pennfylvasia, palled during the last
r, feflion, for building a Stone Bridge over the River
c Schuylkill, at the Borough of heading, in the County of
>e B«ks. Dollars.
4 1 Prize of 20,000 Dollari . so,ooo
■i 1 do. of 10,000 do. . - 10,000
g 3 do. of 5 ,000 do.. . . j s ,ooo
tl 4 do. of 2,000 do. . . 8,000
i. to do. of 1,000 do. ... ao,ooo
39 do. of 500 do. . _ 19,500
s 80 do. of 200 do. . . . 16,000
d »oo do. of 100 do. - 20,000
300 do. of 50 do. - . i£,oop
1. 1 do. of 500 do. to be paid the posses-)
'* . for f the firft drawn no. $
f 5 do« of 3|Boo do. to be paid pofiefl'ors ?
it of the five last drawn nos $ ! 5 ,00c
0 9*4®° 0 *5 do* .1 .- I^l,ooo
0 10,054 Prizes 300,000
0 , 19,946 Blanks
1 30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
All Prizes fha'll be paid fifteen days after the drawing ij
3 fini shed, upon the demand of a poffellor of a fortunate
t I licket, fubjeft to a deduction of twenty per cent. The
e Diawing will commence as foonws the Tickets are disposed
t of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given,
i Philip Miller, Peter Kerjlner, Wiiltam Wit man,
Jvfeph Hie/ler, James Diemer, Thomas Dun das,
JameMay , John Otto, John Ke'tm, Darnel Graeff. .
Sebajiian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading. May the 9th, 1796. :
1 ickets in the Canal Lottery, No. a, to be i»ad at the i
, above offiee, where the earli«fl inforrq ition of the draw- »
" ing of the \v afhington N'o. 2, and Patterfon Lottery's, j
p are received, and checkbooks for examination and regif (
tering are kept. 0
[ Tickets in the above Lottery to ba had at Mr, Sheri- !
dan's Race-street, John Hay, North Third-ftrect and 1
' Henry Sw;yer's, German Town.
r January 36 -xawtf
Lottery and Broker's Office^
No. 64, South Second stjceet.
"TUCKETS in the Canal Lottery , No. a,-for fal«—a
A Check Book for examination,—and prizes naid in 1,
the late lottery.' * h
Check Books kept for examination and for !'
the City of Waldington, No. 4, und P.ittdbn Tqtteric, !
both of which are now drawing—information where a
tickets are to be had, and prizes cichanged for undrawn
hckett. A complete lift of all the prizes iu the late New- ?i
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School 'Lottery for ,
examination. ' "
The fublcriber folicitsr the application of the public 1
and lus friends, who wi& to purchase or fell Bank Stod-
certificates. Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands' *
• or to obtain money on deposit of property.
f ,T'n kCtS ' he Schu >' lkiil Lottery for
the Spring 11 ' whieh wUI be drawn e »"ly »> j"
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, January 26, 1797. mth
Houses and Lots for sale, I
D Y the Subscriber, in the town of "West-Chester, Chef- f
XJ ter county ij miles from Philadelphia, on the great 1H
state-road, leading Weftward 1 v;: 4 No. 1. A two-story w
f'Tk V corner of High and Gay llreets, 40 feet at
bouse 'y,W eeP ' '. ucludln S a ver Y convenient store- of
houle . the House contains ten well-finifted rooms, a kit
chen andi.entry : the Lot is 144 feet front on Gay-ftre«t, a.
~T*l '° a 7 ndln Weft-Chefler. :No. z. A ,wc-t»o- as
wcP fin ad J° m, , n S' «7 f«t front, containing eleven ta
and"lft f Cg " iledth "? irMs , house hv
and lot fame depth as the other, a kitchen, &c .dlars m
under both homes, with good stables on the lots. Thcfe fii
ma™erlv a m V' d<>ne hY d in acy
W T N °- 3- a Lot 42 feet front. No. 4, m
ten rods d, 44 r N °' fcct > them ki
ten rods deep. On two of the above are ereded three log
who e Tnd a", 0 , (l ° rie6 hi S h ' "liars under the
nole, and a small liable to each*
wlTj Lot3are situated near the CourNHoufe. The
rid d C lO PUBLIC SALE - °" the "^" d
ditious h !L y l '" tW ° °' tloct ' when the "n- to
dit.oßswiU be made known- Poffcflion may be had the on
fint 0f A P ril The Title i, indifputatk. . v i
January 18 JOHN KiNNARD.
' »a*3w
Washington Canal Lottery, ;
?{,' : n°. 1. .
Vr/lIEREAS the State of Maryland has anthorifed
1 tii« underwritten, to raise twenty-ftx tiLOiuaiid, I
" two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose o; cuttjhg •
a Canal through the City of Wafhfngton, fro..i th Po- ]
tdrnac to the Eaftexu Branch Haruour. j
The following ihe SCHEME ot No. I.
Viz .1 20,000 dollars, 20,000
I ditto 10,000 10,000
d ylaadtawH-J J)OOQ 35,000
Tickets, e&c/i \
J 6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 4°P 4,000
'' 20.ditto 100 ' 2,000
55 ditto 50 a.75°
' 575° ditto 12 69,008
' To be raised for the Cfcnal, 26,253
e 5850 Prizss, 175,000
1x650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
3 The Commiffioner> have taken the Securities re
1 guii cd by the aforefaid tct for eke punctual payment of
the prizes.
The drawing of thu Lottery wiij commence, without
delay, as soon as tf«i- Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Suchprizes.as are not demanded in fix months after th«
j drawiug is liui.'hcd, shall be coufidered as rejinquifhed for
, the benefit ef the Csnal, and appropriated accordingly.
'• (St'gned) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANJF.L CAkKOLL, ofD
' LEWIS DEBLCXIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
WM. M. D UNO ANSON.,
e THOMAS LAW, ,
f JAMES BAURY. (
City of wsslhit>gv.on, Feb. 11. §
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated,' laying on'and between Marffi
1 artd Beech Creeks, Mifflin eounty, Pennsylvania, in
, I four separate Patents. For terms ot sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, S<»uth Sfcond-ilroet |
/ January 26. mwftf
! "
A Principal Boofk-Keeper
IS wanted in one of riie Public Offic-:«. Enquirsof the
Printer. February to §6t
t ; »
Dr. Perkins
TwroßMs the Citizens of Phikdeiphia, that he has taken
' -L lodgings for a few day?, at the Indian Queen, in 4th J
street. He will be happy to wait on s^ny'perfons in this
. city, between the hours of 9 and 1, who wilh to latisiy
themfelvesol the efficacy of his (
; PA TEN T- MET A LLIQ POIN TS, 1
And wiil operate gratis for the relief of the poor : the
instruments, and the right of using them, are for sale at
, his lodjings.
, Subjoined, are Sxtrads from a Pamphlet, containing ma
ny remarkabls cases, attested by charaaers of the'high
elt. refpe&ability.
Extrafls fnm letters to the. Author of the Metallic Discovery.
' Pierpont Ldwards, Esq. Diftriil Attorney for the Hate
of Conr.eiticut.
New-Haven, O(Sober 7, 1796.
Dear Sir,
I fhoußhsve written you last wetfk, had I then been
able to afceruin certain fa6ts, liic rumour of which I had
heard. A Mrs. Beers, a near neighbour to me, the wife
of Eben Beers, and daughter of captain Samuel.Hoggins,
of this town, had been, for fourteen weeks, exceedingly
diftrelTed with the Rheiimatifm, to such a degree that for
fourteen weeks previous to the 29th ef last month, she -
had not been able to v. alk acrois the room t w;i with crut
ches, lave only ones, when (he made out with the'afiift
ance of crutches to hobble part of the way aero's her room..
On the 2'; th.of September last, ihe procured a set of your
metallic substances, and in lefs-than, an hour after Ihe had
begun to use them,.in the marines directed by you, Ihe
rose from her chair, and walked about hsr house, and on T
. the next day she went abroad to her neighbours, having :
thrown afidc her ciutdips. 1 have this day paid her.a visit 11
in company with her father, and Timothy Jon t. Esq.
who lives in the street wh.'re she resides and direetiy op- ° J
pofit-. to her rafideuce, and with Capt. Abel Burrett, who £:
is her next neighbor, and live* within eight yards .of ljer
d'oor. I requested hfr to relate her cafe over in their -Ti
presence, which flic did, and theft,gentlemen all with one -
voice, supported, from their own knovyledge, her flory. .
It is a duty which you owe yourfelf and'the world to pro- "
this event. • I am, very refpedfully, a '
Your .obedient frrvant,
Pllt R PONT UPWARDS.
N. B. She fays her fever has lefthj,r, her appetite ha'. ,
returned, and she is in a fair way to be reflored to perfea 1
health. r «'
Rev. Mr. Spalding, of Salem. U
Tl. t'.iay certify, that the fu'ufcriber, inhis visits amoti"
his people, ha,s used Dr. Perkins's metallic paints, to r.c>
lieve-pains and inflammations of virious kinds, and has
succeeded to his astonishment. They have seldom failed m
to relieve the head-ach„ tseth-ach, ague in the face, in
flammation in the eyes, cramp, cholic, rhtumatifm, oains
of the breast and fid j, biles, scalds and burns—Sometimes ' a
there has been a perfect cure ir.nji one operation. A lad
Vvhohad been confined three da/s with.h'gh symptoms of C i
a fever, very hwt and full of pain, by an operation of the
points, designed to relieve his head, his face turned pale
and cold 1 , his fever and pain immediately ltft him, and in
a tew days he was out of doors ; the year before, at the
fame season, he was taken with the fame symptoms, and T
■lay extremely sick forty days. The efficacy of the metal
l.*c (joints has gained great credit in this town.
JOSHUA SPALDING.
December 5, 1796. ar<
Rev. Elhanan Winchester.
I certify, that on the zift of Marchil 7*96, I s a w Dr. in
Perkins's method of rure by pointed metallic inflrumcnts, aa
tried with success in the poor-house or bettering-houfe in
Philadelphia; efpeciaily npen a man who was unable to
lilt his right hand to his head, as was tried beforehand, but
who after a few minutes operation, was able to remove it j* 1 '
at pleafurc.j and in my fight, put it witheafe on the top j} 3
of his head and back of his neck', and in all directions.
Nearlj the lame eile& took place.upsn a woman ; and
all that I saw treated, profelfed that their pains >-eased "Y
after being treated a fhorr time : and f'everal came volun
tarily, and in my hearing thanked the Dr. foi; cures he thl
h\J performed on them about eight weeks before, in re- 011
moving .pains fr,.m them, which they d«fared had not
since returned:—so that from what I saw with my own
eyes, and what lhave heard, I'hajtf great hopes that this
methed will greatly tend to alleviate the miseries of man- ■ H
ElI-1 J1 , ELUANAN WINCUESTE*. J
rnilade.phia, April 4, 1796. eri
Extrad from a Providence Papar.
Communication.
Dr. Perkins s invention for removing pains from the
human body, begins to obtain reputation in proportion -
to its utility and efficacy. The finiplieity of the operati- p
on was at firft an obstacle to its Credit; but the flood of e
vidence in its favor, from adual expeiiment, is at length
too powerful to be refift»d.
** r >" r y 7. 4iweotf
'Can?.l Lot-erv. N«. 11.
ScUefet oi a Lottery, authorized by, an aft tn-i-'-d
'* "An aa r ' J l J r> jUcnt 4..d c- ,4
d, Schuylkill and SufquefcaniUh .-.aviation, To raise by
ig way of Lottery, the f(:rnof Four Hundred Thousand
»- Dollar, for the pur,,oft of completing the works, ia
their acts ot incorporation mentioned."
x Prize of twenty thousand dollars, fofoo® '
I of ten thousand dollars, Ic .~n
j of four thousand dollars each, to
be paid to the pofieiTors of the five
numbers firft out of the wheel on the last
day's drawing, at which time there (hall
•not be less than 500 numbers undrawn, 20 000
xcrof two thousand dollars each, ' ao ' >000
20 of one thousand dollars each, ao^o®
43 of live hundred dollars each, 21.
100 of two hundred dollars each, 20,003
100 of one hundred dollars each, 10,'000
220 of fifty dollars each, n.cco
29,500 of five dollars each, 147,5c#
,i 30,000 Tickets at ten dollars each. 300,00®
t Six dollars for each ticket will only be demanded ar
y the time of sale.
All prizes lhall be paid ten days after the drawing J*
e (inifhed, upon the demand oi :he polleffor of a fortunate
r ticket, fubjedl to a deduction of fifteen per cent.
Such prizes as are-not demanded within 12 months
after the Drawing is finilhed, of which public nouce
will be given, lhall be conhdercd as relinquiihed for
the life of the Canal and applied accordingly.
At a meeting of the President and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Sufquehauna Canal Navigation— and
the President and Managers of the Delaware and
Schuylkill Canal,
Relolved, That Joseph Ball, John Steinmctz, Stan
- difli l'orde, Francis Welt, James M'Crea, John Mil
ler, junr. and Willijnn Montgomery be a committee
to arrange and diredl the mode of dilpofing of the
J ickets ; which committee fnull depolit the money in
, Bank, to be carried to the credit of an account to be o.
, pened for the Lottery.
, At a meeting of the Canal Board, held January 16/97,
Relolved, That the committee for condu<slin / »a
Lottery be direflgd tri commence the drawim. nn rl»
firft day of March next.
JExtrail from the minutes,
Win. M. Smith, Secretary.
Joseph Ball,
John Sttinmclz,
Siandijh Forth',
Francis IVefi, Manageri.
yantes M'Crea,
jfoku Miller, jun.
William Montgomery, _
Jm- **>• th&f.tf
City of Washington.
Scheme of the Lottery, jNo. 11, for the improvement
of the Federal City.
A magnificent i 21?,000 dollars, & )
dwelling-house, j calh 30,000, ire 5 ■5° ,00 a
I ditto 15,000 & calh 25,00.0 40,008 1
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 20,000
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,00# 10,000
1 ca& prize of 10,000
» do. 5,000 each, are » 10,000
io do. 1,000 - - 10,000
26 do. 500 - - I»,QOQ
"O da. - • ma -a-
3*30 do. 50 • - 10,1:0 a
da. 25 - - 10,000
1,000 do. 20 - 20,000
Is»°°a do. 10 I- 150,0012
*6,739 Prizes.
33j26i Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets, tJpse prize of 40,000 dollars will be the l a>t drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, payment [neither money
or prizes, in ten days atter drawing, will be received lor
any number not lefV than dejtets.
1 his Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of thepri- /
vate buildings to be erupted in the City of Washington—-
1 wo beautiful detigus are already ieledted for the entire
fronts on two of the public ftjuares ; from these prawings
it ispropofed to e*eti& two centre and four corner buildings,
us soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the fchemc for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made.to defray
the necessary expenses of printing, &c.^»and the fiirplus
will be made a part of intended for the National
University, tcTbe erecled within the city of Washington.
rhc real securities given, for the payment of the-rrizes,
are held by the X^revident and two Dirc&ors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount ot the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
*§,# Ticket®may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ;of Peter Gilman, Boston ;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
Coor>er*s Ferry. eo
Will be Sold, by Public Vendue, ,j
On the gt/j of March next,
A P L ANT A T 1 O N,
IN Ridley townihip, Delaware county, state of Penn
sylvania, eleven miles from Philadelphia, and one
the great road leading thence to Chester ; cont;*/ ning cnc
hundred atid twenty-three acres, twenty-three of whick
are woodland, and eighteen meadow. On the prenijfef
there are, a dwelling-house, barn, and ether •ut-houfes,
in good repair ; a gotid spring of water .clefe to the ho.use,
and a fine Ilream ol water runs through the ; by
which pa*t of the meadow is watered, &c.
A L S O,
On the fame day, the Hock ou the said farm ; confut
ing of horses, cuw«, sheep, hogs," &c. A cart,
harrow, and oj;her farming utcnCis ; also a 'arge copper
fli'l, with the houfcliold and kitchen furniture, among
which are beds and bedding, an day clock, and ma
ny other articles too mention.
Theiale to begin at ten-o'clock in the forenoon, where
the conditions will be m3de jgfiowß, and atitndaßce gives
on the premises, by GURUS LLIVJS.
Ridley, February 13 14 —tthf t.^9
Partner&ip dilfolved.
THiS is to notify the Public, and all pcrl'ons concerned,
that the Paitnerlhip of BLACK bf WELLS, deat
ers in Dry Coodi, was diffolvsd the firft of January Lfi.
SOJBEJRT BLACK.
Philadelphia, Febraary 14, 1797 1 jw
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNft
—No. 119-^-
CHFSHU T-S T&EET.
iPricc Dollars ptr Aimjfn.j