t of the UttttetJ States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
-
Numbea i 35 1 .J
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was bought for Ten Thousand
11 HcTs 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet. APr
cats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of held
water ; he his draak fom: days forty bottles of porter, next,
drawing the corks with his trunk. I
He is perfectly inoffenfive; travels loose, at the
rate of five miles an hour, a»d is the greatest cunofity J)
ever brought to this Comment. • I
He is to be seen 'till the 15th of J^ uar y' ™
M,rket-ftreet between Third and Fourth-ftteets, «
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee-tam No ,
after which time the former price of half a dollar
■be resumed. , . I M t
He will laave Philadelphia as soon as the weat p RA
will permit. I Com
December ■ ■ ■ ■ I fell <
— —— hill,
WANTED, I m
■V MECHANIC, to ere<a Spinning and Weaving writ
»
tory—Apply to No> 40l) North Front street: The
N. B. None n«yd apply but a complete mechanic,
and a man of ftabifitv. x
Globe Mill, December 29, J79 6 - * _ |
THE SUBSCRIBER —
WISHES toafcertain, whether a certain EDWARD j
NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Bu<-k-Lay , I
ivho quitted Ireland i, i 7 <2. or 1:84, and came into j
thw Country, ('tis f»PP«f«d to Philadelphia) about 1
four year, finci, be livLg or dead. As this .nteH, : the
S enee is of theb.gheft imp.rtan.e - J
ly received, by HiKh . llree t I bod
* w&f im J tici
December 31- ■ —']
Elegant Brussels & Turkey Carpeting, po.
Foftle by George Dobfon, No. h Third-ftrce,.
Beeember 15. ' J anc
FOR SALE, Ice
The fa/l-faittng feboener ORl~>N; J
*vyfl s f!Sr Seventy tons burthen ; fit teen months I
old ; ker frame is of the be,l of ™hite I .
osk : Ike is a faithful built vessel, haudfomely fimthed off J
and well found in every particular; is ready to receive a
,argo on board, and can be put to lea without any ex-
pence on her hull, fail* or rigging : Hie ftowsfix hundred
barrels; has :i handsome cahin and steerage. and a half
duck which will flow from feventy-five to eigh.y barrel*; I
has hes newly caulked, graved and RH^ sal
H ' P y A t No. 1 7 0, corner of Market a-d Fifth-ftreets. _
Or to the Captain on board said fcliooiicr at Meflrs. I
"Willis and Yardfley's wharf, adjoining t Chefnut-llreet I
wkarf; where, there is for sale / ■ I
Excellent pickldl Salmon in barrels,
Ae best of American Mess Beef, and some very excellent
Boflon Chocolate. I
December a 6 . ,*.. !
For Sligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship j _
wfclt'VCl Cuthbert Kiggs, inafter. I
VVill fail with all convenient speed. For j
freight or paffagc to . i
W llham Bell;
Who has for sale, J
* Trunks Printed Cottons, well assorted' I
3 Bales Itifh Flannels, and % boxes Linens L
Pipes Brandy |
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Russia Matti. •_
Al/b) I
A few barrel. Prime IRISH BEEF. PORK, S
OATMEAL, to. ?
"November rt, 1796, IH2l_ c
FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP MART,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master, j
hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTIJONY.& Co.
ft the MARY is not fold in a few days, (he will take I
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
October 31. J
For Sale, or Charter, |
The Ship DIANA.
Samuel Pile, Matter," __ 1
Burthen io? 47*95 [ons re ? i,kr ' l 7 ullt 1
Philadelphia in the year 179*. llve °* k
si-rTi i "V , (heathed 13 months ago, lhe
SjS had.?compleat out-fit, and may be sent to fe,
at a very trifling expencr.
For terms apply w „
philip Nicklin cf Co. I
rrho /W for sale on hoard feid vefel,
n cafics of fine yellow pamt. . I
o' boxes and 11 bundles of. writing slates.
1 box mkflands and note presses.
14 bales of fail aanvafs.
And on hand,
l TEA S.
SSrpleces Nankeen, of the SWft qaality.
19' tubs Quic.kf.lwr;
i chells Band am o handkerchiefs. |
A fe* chafts Manchester goodswell assorted in --or I
thicksets, Oi.ig'nams, Muflmew, Dimitves,&c.
a boxes Mark f<7V.'i,ig filic
,Xo crates Queens ware well assorted.
10 tons (heet lead. .
, Nails assorted, flat and (harp points.
Londo» Particular, Madeira Wine in pipes
London Market, r an d hogsheads.
New-Vork Market, J .
40 pipes and .0 hogfke.ds Tenenffewme.
% tierces Snake Rout. ,
**3° , «? s Maho S irf y- tth&ftf
Nov 7-
For Sale,
Bv George Defcbamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, m barrels
and half barrels v
Ditto Herring an 1 Mackarel.
-Smoaked Hiring in barrels and
Ditto Salmon," by the dozen or single one
Dry CodSfh, from one to fifty kentals
■ Platter of Paris, in throne
and gr« U .d. ',r manure and ftuceo-w.k
FRIDAY EVENING, JANUARY 6, 1797.
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turnpike As
Road Company.
A Meeting of the Stockholder* for the Eleftiin of
a President, Managers, and other officers, will be
held at the Company's office on Mondr.y the 9th Jati. Impt
next, at 10 o'clock.
By the Board;
WM. 60VETT,Scc'ry. '
December Si, liwtiftj.dtyh
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 61 South Third ftrnct.nppofite the national new Bank. Mai
QAMUEL M FR UNtK.S and JOHN VAN REED, (en
Q haVs entered into co partnerfliip, under the firm of Ruf
VRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers, Wil
Conveyancers and Commission merchants. They buy and Guf
fell on commission cvsry fpeoies of stock, of hand, Mi;
hills of exchange, houses and lands, &c. ~. *
Money procured *on dcpofits, &c. See. all kinds c
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the j
mod correal manner. Constant attendance will be given. £
They solicit a fliare of the public favor ; they ire deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utinoft secrecy ebferved.
S *Mt?KL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED (
Philad. AHguft 17,1796- m&wtf
Lottery and Broker's Office, j
No. 64, South SaCOND STREET. T),
TICKETS in the CaHal Lottery, No. 1, for Sale—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in mi
the late lottery. . 1
Check Books kept for examination and r jittering, tor
the City of Walhington, No. 2, and Fattefon Lotteries, p s
both of which are now drawing—information whose
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of ?11 the prises in the late New- T
, Port Long-Wharf, Hotel ar« Public School* Lottery, for
examination.
rive fubftriber solicits the application of the public
and hn friends, who with to purchafo or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on depoSt of property
* * A'.fo tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery .or Cr
I sale *at Ten Dollars each, which will he drawn early in
r the Spriag. - .. 1
Wm. Blackburn. Fi
PHhdelrhia, Augafi ig, 1796- mth Fc
if SALT P E r E> si
' A large Quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for
fait at No. 25» South Third-fttfiCt.
I November 5. __
M A C A R D. I
:t I 1
I If Monfttur G. H. Soniß,
> I Who left Bordeaux the «#th June lift, and arrived
II at Boftnn f.bout the middle of Aaguft, in the schooner
J Jjine, is in Philadelphia he is requested to call on
— | Joseph Anthony & Co. No. 5, Chefnut-ttrestt, who
j will give him some i»formation of importance.
Dtcember 14» 1 79®- *
1 Fashionable Waistcoating.
or 1
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25,
south'THIRD-STREET,
j Hat received per the Diana, from London,
j Clouded and striped" Spmnh Swanfdow*
j Clouded Erminats and Mplelkms
J Striped ' do. and da.
j Figured Manilla?
Scarlet figured Ermmets
j Printed Flprinetts . .
: Do. Caffinets and Caffimtres
— Superfine printed Quiltings, newest patterns
Also, per different arrivals,
A large and general assortment of Dry
Goods,
J Suitable to the prefeat and approaching season.
r t0 I November 5.
ike I FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land, ,
— WELL fit Hated, laying on aad between Marfti
and Beech Creeks, Miffiin county, Pennsylvania, in
| four separate Patent!. For terms of fate apply to
Wra. Blackburn,
j No. 64, South Second-Street.
: 0 j" I Oaoher 31. t
Ihe FOR SALE,
I At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, Ntrth Second Street.
I Imperial r Hyson Skin,
j Hyson, >■ Frslh Teas. < Souchong,
j Young Hyson, J
- Dec. 9. .VJW3m
j Insurance Company of the State of
Pennsylvania.
I THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that an
I for thirteen Diretftors to serve for one year, will be held
I at the Company's Office, on Monday the 9th January next,
j at II o'clock. —And agreeably to the afljof incorporation
I a fktcraent of the affairs of the company, will then >be
I laid before them. '
SAMUEL W. FISHER, Sec'y.
„ j Philadelphia, December 19, 1796. dt 9th Jan.
, &c. j Imparted from Loudon & Liverpool,
j EARTHEN WARE, in crates and hogsheads, well
] aflorted
j Wife Bottles in hampers
j Window Glass of all sizes
ines Two tafes of stationary
r I One chest of yellow Jesuits Bark
I Two cases of Roll Arnotta
j A small confignrment of Rose Blanket*, Flannels,
| Baites, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains, &e.
I Paints of various eolors.
tf Basket fait in hogfneads.
Jl/o on hand,
j Madeira wins, very old, in pipes, hogftcads and
f, I quarter calks ' '
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
rp ]c Anchors of different sizes
A few tiunks of ladies Frtnch shoes assorted
Silk nankeen, &c.
Likewise an assortment of Dutch goods, confining of
Ofnalierps, tioklenhergs,bad-ticks, flripes, checks.
Morlaix linen, platiilae, ra»ens duck, Britanmas, &c.
And for. sale by the package only by
. Thomas Ss 3 John Kctland.
Walr.ut-ftreet Wharf.
«Bf Not. JJ. * oti
A few hogsheads ©f choice N. E. Rum,
and a quantity
of LARD, for falc; .
Enquire at No. 71, North Water-street.
Decem-bcr 24 dtw j B
Imported in the late «rrh< ils from Europe and the i B? ,
IVeJI-lndies, to da
Holland Gin, in pipes fel j-
Choice St. Ct-oix Sugar and Kum
Martinique Molaflss, in hogsheads
Choice old Li&on -Wine, in pipe' and quarter-c«fks
London Particular & London Market Madeira Wi&e,
in pipes, half-pipes and qu*rter-ca<k» xl
Malmsey Madeira Wine, in pipes and quirter-calks Sixti
Tenerift'e Wiae, in pipes whic
Russia & Flemilh Sheeting and Ravens Dusk, in tales ; n ft a
Window Giafs, 8 by 10, in boxes
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in cases
Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in b»xt»
Alfa, on band,
A few chests of Bofcea To ; J*fui»s Bark ; Aflafn
tida an<J Tapioca ; and a few bales of Couaes, g xt<
Baftas, GurraViSj Bandanna and Muslin Hairakfr-
chiefs, and a complete aflbrtment of 5-4 and 4-4 ter (
BooJting Cloths.
For Sale by 1
Pragers & Co. —
Oflobef to diwm&tham
A Gold Watch was Found
A few days ago, in the lower part of Second-street.
The owner, on calling at No. 117 in laid street, and
prpving it to be his or hers by a description in writing,
may receive : t en paying for this adv&rtiitraent.
Dei ember 29 * 3
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Rvots, life. &c.
"this day landing from the £h : .p Eagle, captain Fofdick, j
from London,
And FOJI SALE by J
GOLDTHWAIT h MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Secpod-ftreets,
A mojl capital and rxlenjivc /Iffertment of
r GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS, = a
» ROOTS, Sec. &c. 0 \
Among which are,
Fire kinds Asparagus Three kinds Cresses
Four Berecole Twelve j-T "™"
Twenty-five Beans Thirteen
Six Beets, Fifteen Turnip
r . Eleven Erocolii Fiftert c, 1 ' 65 ' 8
Twenty-Hi Cabbage SU
S « Carrot Four Parfmr
- Tbro* Caulifloww Tw«nty-ttte« Melon v
pi Te Celery Twenty-one Lettuce
Ten Cucumber,
Common and lemon Thyme v
Curled leaf and {prigged Parftey
d Pot Marygold Pot Marjorum
•T Bala Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
>n Leek Ksil Shallot.
IO ' Rape Se#d Rye SraCs Saint Foin Lucerne
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. &c.
With a curious collection of the most efteamed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being tjie moil extensive ever imparted into this city.
The abov& are from a capital Seedsman in Londen, and
are warranted fr.elh and good.
Printed catalogues may,be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17. dtf "
Just Landing,
>At Snuth-Jlreet wharf, from on board the (hip StJg
ley, Captain Hodge, frtm St. Peterjburg, |
The following Goods :
1 Russia Sail Duck* firii quality. [
Do. Sheeting do.
I Do. Diaper.
I Do. Huckaback.
Do. Crash. '
rif Do. Moold Candles, 4, 5 and 6, to thejlb. «# the
Englilh file.
1 Due White Candle Tallow.
Do' White Soap in small boxes.
1 Do, Cordage ef fiii£ yarn.
Ravens Duck.
lfinglaft, .and end fort.
I Harfe Hair uncurlcd.
u-ft, I Ruflia B r Iron,
j Do. Hoop Iron.
to 1 Do. Nail Rods. /
I 10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. Peterihurg Clean Hemp:
| For Salt by
_ Philips, Cramond, & C®.
J OAaber la. §
e, I Cheap French China.
THE fubfcriberj finding it impoflibleto supply their
J store with any more China from France, the prices
being too immoderate ih the mauufa&eries, give n»-
' tiee that they will fell at prims, cost thtf remaining
of I fl»ck on hand, confiiUng ef
1 Deflert Setts,
Won I Tea-Table Setts
held ! Separate C«ps and Saucers
icxt r Grtjuptss ami Figures
ition I Alabafler Vases
~ 1 Looking Slafles, m gHt frames,
Besides India Japan'd Toilet Deifce, Chairs, Tables
... I nad Quadrille BoJfes. PASQUIER & to
;n I No. gt, South Second-street..
I December 5 th.
well For Sale,
LBy J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
I Confiding of-different fees, from n inch cables down
Ito rope of 1 inches, of different ksigAs: Imported in
I the {hip Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawhatk.
Is, J Sept. 17. dtl
NOTICE.
Those Gentlemen who hold any of the undermen
tioned Notes or Draughts [whether due or net) arc
requested to meet at the City-Tavern on Wednesday
I siit, at 6 o'clock in the evening 1 at which time an
1 arrangement will be j:rnpofed which it is expedied will
I be to th# holders.
Edward Fox's notes in favor of James Gresnleaf.
1 James Greenleaf's notes in favor of Edward Fox.
j »James GreenlrtPs draughts on Edward Fox.
'£ ot 1 Abraham Dubois's aoie to Edward Ko*,
'■ I Edward Fox's note to Abraham Dubois.
» &c ' I James Greenleaf's draughts on Abraham Dubois.
I At the requejl of a major fart of the Gentlemen
L \ ntereJ,ed - EDWARD FOX.
j Dcsembtr 19. , r dtw
l£» NOTICE.
THE Sales of LANDS of the United States, in the
North-Western Territory, heretofore advertiled
in the several publie papers, will commence this even
ing, at the City Tavern to be continued from day
to day, 'till the tenth of Febr*ary next, if «ot Jootier
fold.
Jamuary 4 J
Bank of the United States,
January 2nd, 1797.
The Dire&ors have this day declared a Dividend ot
Sixteen Dollars on each Share for the iaft fix months,
which will be paid to the Stockholders after .the 1 ath
instant. G. SIMPSON, Caihier.
Bank of Pennsylvania,
January 4, 1797*.
At a meeting of the DireAors th''s day, a dividend of
sixteen dollars «n each lhare was declared tor the lift
6 months, which will he paid to the Stockholders al
ter the 14th jq NATHAN SMITH, Cafoi«r.
J»n- 3- ——♦
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & id proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumbler*, in pints and half-pinw
Window Glass, im boxes, of differed fi«e«
Hazlenuts, in sacks
Whiting
C*P? er " C in hhdt
WhreLead C
Jc Spanift Br«wn J . _
For Sale hy PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 ?
Bank of North America.
THE STOCKHOLDERS are hereby notified that an
electron for twelvs DireSors for the ensuing year will be
held at the Bamk on Monday the 9th of January at toss,
o'clock. . i
RICHARD WELLS, CafW.
' ec '
> Wm, Holdernesse, N0."76,
\ H IGH-STREST t
r Hns received by the late arrivals,
A WcH Selected AssokTMttrr of
* Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdaftiery Goods,
v Which he will felt, wholetiU and retail, on the very
low eft terms ;
Amongst which are
Some elegant 4*4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cosrons, new
patterns
Ditto Fnrniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muslins
. Ditto in Gold and Silver *
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrellas of the firft quality, aflortedr
_ lrifh Linens, very fins, and Table Linens
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets afforted—&c. Stc.
f. Odtober 26. d
Infuranee Company of North-America.
THF STOCKHOLDERS in this company are desired
to take notice that the fccond Tucfday in January, (being
the 10th day of the month) is the day fixed bycharterfor
&he,eleftion of twenty-five Dire&ors for the ensuing year.
rhe eledion will he held at their office, and commence
at! 11 o'clock, A, M.
he Thefubjeft if the bye-laws o r the Corporation win be
fuhmitted to their *onfideration at this meeting.
. EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry
Dec. W. tthl °J
"Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOBSON,
No. »5, South Third-street,
Has s,uft received, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdlek, via Lon
don, an assortment of
Scarlet ")
Drab ( Cloaks trimmed With fur an 4
Purple and ( ermine.
3. ?<* rl J .
j December 15. 5
Bank of North-America,
January 2, 1797.
At a meeting of the Dire&ors this day, a Dividend ot
leir Six per Cent. was declared for the last half year, which
ices will be paid to the Stockholders or their representatives,
no- at any time after the 10th instant. ,
lintr By order of the Board.
8 dti6th JOHN NIXON, President.
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
►
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his profeffional friend*,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
hies rll ion, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arrang.
5. Ed, and rfady for Sale, from a single volume to ao entire li
t. brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
"tts prices, which for several years pail have in so dittinguilhed a
—— manner reoommeixled theiWto notice*
Printed Catalogues combining the mod extenflvc coliec.
lion cf the latest English and Ifith Editions ever imported
Co. i»to this country, aVe pabliihed, and will be delivered giatij
on application.
Orders addressed to G. D. in writing from any dittanee
own (hall be punitually attended to.
d in A number of TRUNKS for Sale,
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient LOFT, near Market Street Wharf.
ov.B. tu&f3m
nen- Bank of Pennsylvania.
arC AT® Meeting of the Stockholders of the Bank of
DAY j[\ Pennsylvania, at the Bank, December 19th, 1796,
ean j t was unanimously resolved, That, from the ioforma
w'" tion this day given by the Board of Directors, and tbe Do
cuments exhibited, the Stockholders do fully approve the
if. conduct of the Direilors; and that the thanks of thi«
x. meeting be returned to the said Directors for their activi
ty, jjcal, and fuccefsful exertions in the discharge of their
duties in relation to the abuses lately pra&ifed upon Jhi»
Institution.
ib. . Resolved, That the foregoing Resolution bejpublifhed in
emen the Newspapers of tljis city,
EDWARD SHIPPEN, Chairman.
X. X BENJAMIN CHEW, Jr. Secretary.
I Dec. 30. JJt
[Volume XI,New Theatre.
THIS EVENING, January 6, (
Will be presented, aTRAGEDY, sailed
The Fair Penitent.
Seiolto, Mr. Warren 1
Akamont, Mr. Fox
Horatio, Mr. Cotper
Lothario, Mr. MuretM
Roflano, Mr. Darley, jtin.
Califta, Mrs. Merry
Livinil, Mrs. Francii
Luc ilia, Mrs. Harvey
» —
To which will be lidded (for the feeond time)
A Comic Opera, in two aAs (as performed at Covent-
Garden Theatre upwards of 150 nights) called
The Lock.and Key".
Brummagem, Mr. Francis
Cheerly, Mr. Darky, jus.
Captain Vain, Mr. Fox
Ralph, Mr. Hariuotd
Florella, Mrs. Warretl
fanny, Mrs. OUtnixon
Selina, Mrs. Harvey
Dolly Miss Milbturnt
The unbounded appiaufe with which the ahove farce
was received, has induced, the managers to repeat it
the earliest evening possible.
On Saturday the favorite Comedy of the RAGE ;
Jo which will be added a celebrated French Opera,
called BLAIZE ET BABET..
£5" Box, One Dollar twenty-five cents. Phone Dollar.
And Gallery, half a dollar.
£3- Tickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's tlook-ftore,
No. 5® High-fi»eet, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at j, and the
Curtain rife precisely it 6 o'clock.
Places for the Boxes to Be taken at the Office in the
front of-the theatre, from 10 till 2'o'clock, and from
19 till 4 pn the days of performance.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their
servants to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and
to order them, as f on as the company are seated, t®
withdraw, as they cannot an any account be permit
ted 40 remain.
VITAT RESFUBLICA!
College-Hall.
Readings and Rotation#,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
Mr. FE~NNE L'L
Refpeflfully informs the Public, that
On SATURDAY EVENING, January 7, at 7 o'clock^
Will he delivered,
(first »ARt)
Prefatory observations,
including feledltons* from Dr. Yonng—»n
t Man,
\ -Life.
PkOCKASTIMATIOtT.
(Repeated)
(SECOND PART)
The Miseries of Human Life, Thompson
The Beggar's Petition, Dr- Percival
The Country Clergyman, Goldsmith
Domestic Mappinefc, Thompson
(third part)
Ode on St. Cecilia's Day, Pope
Alexander's Feast, Dryden
On Tuesday next will be delivered, felefiions
from the tragodies of Othello and the Revenge, with
a critical inveftigatior. and camparifon of their respec
tive merits. •
Subfcription6 are received by Mr.Zachariah Poulfon,
jun. at the Library, where the Ladies and Gentlemen
■who may be inclined to honor the undertaking with
their patronage, are refpeftfully requested to fend
their names and receive their tickets.
Ortafional admiffron tickets to be had of A(fr. Poulfon,
Jun. at the Library ; atmr. M'Elwee's loeking-gtofs-flpre,
No. 70, South Fourth-street; and at Mr. Carey's, Boob
feller, Market-street—Hals a dollar each.
Loft, or Mislaid,
At the Bank of the United States—Joseph Highee's
"note, d:;ted 19th December hft,_for twelve hundred
dollar., payable at 60 days to Nathaniel Lewis'& Son.
Whoever may find the fame will please return it to said
Bank, or to the fuhferibers who will allow a reward
Payment being barred, it cannot be of use to any o
ther person.
NATHANIEL LEWIS «c SON.
Jan. 5 >
SWAN N'S
Riding School, TTorfe Academy & Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street.
> T. .SWANN
RETURNS his sincere thanks to those gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, during his residence in this City, and
Sattershimfelf that the success of his efforts, in the nuuierous,
obstinate and dangerous difeafss in Herfes, in which he has
been consulted, together with his moderate charges, will fe
ure their future favors and rcc«mmendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
that his Ipacious and commodious premises, ereSed for the
purposes above described are open for the reception of pupils
of either lex, who wi(h to beinftwfted in the Art «f Hiding
anfl the right method of governing their herfes, so as to ride
ihern with ease, elegance. and fafety—their horses will be
carefully and expeditioally broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient tot he will of the riders ; the natural powers
which are (hut up ia them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all those beauties of action which providence has so bounti
fully bellowed on them. . .
Also, at his hospital, every disorder to which the horse is
friable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience. '
The utility of the above inflhution has never bean qneflion
ed,that it has long been wanted in this city, every gentleman's
Bud willnanifeft, and T. Swann as the 61ft eflablifher of
the veterenary art, solicits »d jelies upon the fuppoit of that
public (which he is ever anxious in serving) to enable him to
bring it to perfection. The idea of a fubfeription for vhat
purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who wish 10
promote the inflitulion—the amount of each fubfeription to
be returned by services in any of the departments he profefles,
agreeable, to the rate of charges Aated in his haud bill-. Such
fubfeription is now open, and the fignatuTts of many relpetf
able gentlemen already obtained. He therefore informs hi.
friends and ftich Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
die honor of being known, that he shall iu a few days uke
the liberty of waiting upon them and foliating their support
and protection.
N. B. Horfcsare properly prepmed for those Ladieiand
QMtlenenwho with to be inftrufted.
Xov. 5. «h&f<
THE SUBSCRIBER
Returns lii« fintre thanks to his fellow-citizens,
for the exertions made by them on his ®n
Friday evening lad during the fire.
Observing on tl»t occafton a great number of
refpeftable persons all busily employed in taking
down and removing his furniture, he could not but
be iwipreffed wiih a very grateful sense of their be
nevolence. But it did not occur to him toioon
ceive, much less to expc£l, that, not content with
having rendered him this service, they would after
wards form themfelvss, some into a guard to ftaiid
out of doors, in u cold night, with lighted candles,
to watch over and protest his property: others
into a voluntary patrole, to walk from time to
time, round the yard and his late dwelling,
andkeep at a distance persons whose honesty might
be doubted.
Among those who vtrere endeavouring to sup
press the flames, and fare the building, captain
SAMUEL PIERCE deserves, as the subscriber
is informed, lo be mentioned with particular >e
refpeft. This gentleman, it is said, brought with
him a party of failots, placed himfclf at their head,
and ascending upon the roo f , then surmounted
in many places by the flames, rendered eminent fct
vices at the rifkof his life.
The fubferibers think it also hiVduty to inform
the public, that, from concurring circumstances,
it it now well nfcertainedf that the fire took its rife
not from accident, but design. A few minutee
before the alarm was given, bis son William, going
out into the yard, heard some one jump down
(from the top, as he supposed, of the jack-cafe)
Hpcn the roof of the kitchen, leap from that into
the alley which runs between Mr. Davidfon's and
the free school, and make off into the llreet. Of
the truth of this account (which he gave immedi
ately to that part of the family whiqh was then iu
the kitchen) it ia a strong confirmation, that, zt
the fame time, the fubferiber and his wife, then
fitting in a room adjoining to the kitchen, heard an
unulual noise over head, as of some one falling,
and sent out two young persons belonging to the
family,"lo go up ftairi with a and discover if
pofiible, what had oecafioned it. Again, en the
cry of fire, two of his sons ran into the back yard,
where, as they afterwards aflerted, they perceived
a strong smell ef gunpowder. And that in this
they were not mistaken, has since appeared by the
teftimooy of colonel Nichols, who relates, that he
was one of the fit ft who ran up to the gariet flairs,
and that a strong smell of gunpowder was there
perceived, both V»y himfelf, and those that were
Svith him.
From these and other circumstances, the infer
ence is, that the fire was communicated to the
building by some incendiary, who stood on the
jatk-eafe, and applied a match to the eaves.
But the ftrdngeft of all evidenees is that of the
ruins themselves. Let any one only place hirafelf
in the alley by the jack-cafe, andobletve the ap
pearance which the eaves, dire&ly above it, still
continue to exhibit ; and then let bim ascend to
the garret, and there take a view of ends of the
joists towards the quartet 1 above mentioned, burnt
deeply at the eaves, and less and less deeply as be
recedes from th« eaves towards the middle of the
floor ; and he can have n« doubt with refpeft to
the origin and progress of the fire, bat mult plain
ly fee that it was communicated from the eaves
which are ever the jack-cafe to the garret, and
in a contrary direction from the eaves to the garret.
CONGRESS OF tms UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Friday, December 30.
Mr. W. Smith called the order of the day on
the report of the committee of ways and means en
the unfcttled balanees due from certain individual
states to the United States, which was accordingly
entered upon.
Mr. Williams rose and observed that he did not
imagine the resolution would have been calltd up so
food. It, had been put on their defies but a few days,
and he had been employed on committees every e
vening and morning since—however he would make
a few observations on the Subject.
The refolutian under consideration, said Mr.
Williams, was a call on the debtor Hates for the
payment of certain sums of money said to be due
to the United States. The Aate which he had
the honor t« represent was one of this class. Did
he believe itsto be a debtor state, the last thing he
would ask for would* be a relinquifbment of that
debt ; but being fully persuaded that had a just and
equitable Settlement been made, or that the nature
of the cafe wonMhave admitted of ic, at the time
it was made, the state of New-York would ijave
been a creditor state ; and he trufied that he could
clearly demonflrate, from arguments drawn from
facts, that neither the mode adopted by which the
commiflioners were to determine on the claims pro
duced by the refpeftive states, or the rule of ap
pointment, which they were dire&ed to pursue,
could in any manner operate to do that justice which
the nature of the cafe required.
~ With refpeft to the mode adoped, it is enacted
in the third feflion of the aft, entitled " An a£t
to provide mere effcfluaily for the Settlement of all
accounts between the United States and the indi
vidual states," '• That the commifiioners are to
determine on all such claims as 'hall have accrued
for the general or particular ence during the
war, and on th« evidence thereof, according to
"the principles of general equity (although such
claims may not be fanftioned hy the relolves of
Congress or supported fey regular vouchers) shall
determine thereon." had the words within the
parenthesis been omitted, he alked would the Pe
nobfcot expedition' or the frigate built in South-
Carolina, or a number of such like charges ttiiau
[ thorized by Congress been admitted in the fettle
; ment ? But, by its being allowed, the states of
MafTachufetts and South-Carolina are made creditor
states. The creditor states have had their credits
tunded according to the a£t, but not fa.isfied they
are now calling ujioa the debtor states to make pay
JOHN ANDREWS.
ment—a payment never could lia\e beer,
contemplated especially in the manner now called
for. .
Is the seventh feftion of the before recited act
the creditor states should have their balances fund
ed. This hath been done, bat nothing is mention
ed in that aft, or any other, to authorize the call
on the debror dates in the manner propafed. Itis
piwbable, said Williams, if it had been con
templated at that time the aft would not have puf
fed.
With tefpeft to the rule $f apportionment which
the cotrtmiffioners were directed by law to pursue,
Mr. Williams contended that it was impoflible, that
any thing-like public could be done, parti
cularly in the date of New-York ; besides, laid
he, it tvas a departuie from the rule laid down and
ettablilbcd when the articles of confederation were
agreed to, ths eighth article of which is, " That
all charges of war, and all other expences that
(hall be incurred for the common defence and gene
ral welfare, and allawed by the United Saates ia
Congress afTembled, should be defrayed out of the
common treasury, which fhoald be supported by
the' several dates, in proportion to the value of
1 nd 9 within each (late, granted to or surveyed for
any person, as fucli land and the buildings and im
provements thereon should be edimatcd, according
to such mode as the United Sta'es in Congress as
sembled (hall from time to time direst an'd appoint.
The, taxes for paying that proportion (hould be
laid and levied by the authority and direflion of the
legislature of the several dates, within the time a
greed upon by the United States in Congref* at
lerabled.'' And, therefore, said Mr. W. the aft
pointing out a different mode was a retrofpeftive aft,
operating ta the disadvantage of some of the dates
to theadvantageof others ; had this 9ft been pas
sed immedrately at the close of the war, inltead sf
being omitted until fix years after the war, it would
have operated equally; but no rule of apportion
ment could then be adopted, without a mamfjft
injury to some states, tqyvhem thoulaiids had emi
grated others. This was the cafe in thed.ite
of New-York. One third of the number of inha
bitants in that (late when the enumeration wasmade,
had moved into it after the close of the war, from
the New-Euglaud dates and the date of New-Jer
sey ; so that the numbers in those dates were dimi
ni(hed,,while that of New Yotk was
The mode of apportionment mud, in consequence,
operate unequally. Even lince the settlement hid
taken plaot, some thousands of families had come
into the date of New-York, from creditor dates ;
and how could a discrimination be made ? Or would
it be jud to compel those who bad emigrated from
creditor dates into debtor dates, to pay the pro
portion of the money said to be due from debtor
dates, whereas, by the settlement, had they re
mained ip the creditor dates, they would have been
entitled to a proportion of the money due to them.
Or, said he, is this resolution calculated tq prevent
emigration from one date to another.
Mr. Williams sbferved that attempts had been
made to have the priviledgeef examining the prin
ciples oT the settlement by the ccimniflioners, and
the charges exhibited and allowed from the refper
tive Hates, but it had keen ref"nfed. 11, said he,
the creditor states were conscious of the settlement
being proper, why this refufal ? But, until this was
done, could it be expeAed that the debtor states
would submit to a settlement which they had every
reason to believe was founded on erroneous charges
exhibited to the commiflioners ?
With*efpeft te New-Yoik, their advances had
been such that the firft calculators i.i the Union,
who had been engaged in public btifinefs during the
war. said that the state of New-York must, on an
equitable settlement, be a creditor state to the a
muunt of two,millions of dollars. Mr. W. said he
had been from the commencement of the revoluti
on to the cloie of (the war, either in the legislative
or military capacity, excepting about one year, and
he was confident that no more could be done than
was done by the state of N,ew-York, and a state
having done all they could do, it was not possible
it could be a debtor state. And, said he, (hall jhat
state now because it had exhibited fair and
honorable accounts, such as the commissioners ob
served, were like merchants accounts, and would
Hand the scruples of law, omitting many accounts
which oould not be exhibited in proper form, as
the nature of the cafe would not admit «f it unless
by mere calculation ? Ac'ding to this, the difficul
ties that state had to encounter, which ought also
to be takeß in view en a final settlement.
As the commencement of -he war, said Mr. W.
unfortunately for the state ef Ncw-Yorjc, the one
half of its inhabitants were difaffe<£trd to the then
measures, and a number actually took aims against
those who were friendly to the revolution, the sup
pression of whom, with a cenftant watch over them
were never brought into the general Sccount. In
the beginning of the 1776, the enemy took
New-York,, and with it nearly one half of the va
luable part of that slate. In ihe year following,
Burgoyne's army penetrated its frontiers, and laid
wade the greater part of the country north and
weft of Albany. By the memorable battle of O
nlke, upwards of three hundreJ widows and chil
dren were left to be supported by that state, as well
as some hundreds at the north part.of the (late.
These, together with the poor from the city of
New-York, were supported during the war, and
no charge made thereof. The endeavours of the
enemy to form a junction of their armies near the
Hudson river, was the cause of that date being so
overrun that not one country escaped their ravages.
Add to.this one third of New* York, the fihe town
of Efopus, and ieveral hundred of honfes in the
frontiers were burnt and immenle property destroy
ed. For calamities fe great very few thought of
obtaining voucherj, and for the deftrnftion of ar
mies no allowance would be made, which occasion
ed numbers to be reduced from affluence to want.
Large films of money said Mr. W. had been paid
by the slate of New-York, since the time limited
to be exhibited for a settlement with the United
States. Thejuft debti exhibited by the claimants
and the reafonaftlenei's of the exi-ufe for their not
having presented tl.em sooner, operated wiiji them
so forcibly that they could not be withstood. Ma
ny accounta exhibited asd no: paid will amount to
u«nvrr;!s at out mil'icii of <3>-*V.r«, and "TOttilW* 31
realonable as foioc ot (Uole aiiotvcd to the other
Hates by the commissioners.
But, |it will be laid, had *ot othei ftatej fuffer.
Ed ? Mr. W. said he would aflc, what ttate .' Was
it any of the New-England Rates ? Where, said
he, had they their capitals kept from them dutirig
the war ? Where had they their frontiers overrun
and destroyed ? Wuete had they their country laid
waste and destroyed ? Was is not r a fait, faiii he,
that during the war the inhabitants of. New-York
had to procure their lalt from the New-England
Hates, New-Jersey, and Pennfylrania,
them on an average, t.wo bufheb of wheat for one
of fait, and every other article in proportion. Add
to this, they had from time to time taken frotn
| them all their graip, excepting what was fcarceiy
fufficient to support ttieir families by acts of im
j press, and at a certain limitted price, which w-i«
delivered for the use of the army, and at a time
when other iiates jiuniifhed fupplics of the like kind
and were allowed more than double the price. 1
have known, said he, Working oxen taken by the
point,of the bayonet from the farmer, and to thit
day hot, paid for ; —and, will gentlemen lay, New-
York is a debtor stale ? He not.
Mr. Williams hoped when tUe fulfcriqg6 of the
citizens of the ltatc of New-Y«ik were only con-
; when the vail destruction of their capi
taK and of their frontiers was taken into conlide.
ration, together with their fituaii6n duimg the war,
he was perluaued that no moie would be laid re's»
petting that (tate being a debtor Itate, and that
inch an odious liigma would be done away.
Did not, said he, the commander in chics ob
serve in the moll trying times, viz. in the year
1781, that if it were not for the exertions ot ihe
Uatc of New-York, and the fupplics by ihe'm at
that time furaiflied, he mult difbanj tne arniy.
Did n»t one of the coromaH iers who fctiied
the accounts declare in this home (being a member
at that time) that the deb;s oi .he deb or Kates
ought to be done away ? n«i tacitjy ac
knowledging that the accounts exhibited to iheoi
varied so much, (hat it was impoHio/e tor tti.-trr a.
greeably to the mode prtfciil'K-d, to do equai jul
tice ? Add to tl>is, the ofijfcrge made, by lomfr >Uce»
for bounties, when that of New-Yosk ir-.til j not
exhibit the relative amount of a pir oi thens, a.id
othersino bounty, when at the lime lime the < laf
'fes, as diredVed by law, raised the men by paying
large sums for each unknown to the fiaie.
Mr. Williams concluded bjr faying, that li.ice
the war he date of New York had alw..) jiJ
thcil ipecie requifi ions, which, together in*. ue
like pa'id.by Peunfylvania, was the thief lup
congtcl't, until the coultrluiion or prcttm . i«
»f government took place, while foine ole cre
ditor ttaces jJaid nothing ; that as the it a e nt
York had done as much as their utuatio.i would
pernjit them ; had paid large sums oi money mice
the warj which was borrowed to lappori, fay,and
death their quota ot troops, an , in. y .iiiei u.at»
ters ot the kind, he hoped that the reloiunon would
6e negatived and no more be said on the luijcct.
Mr. Nicholasthought there was antnquiry wnich wit
necessary ro precede ue prefi nt queitiou. oo.ne of tha
Hates which were brought !li dctjto:i Tjv uic ■otnmif
fioners, migJit hold dt»u oi .lie U..1U1 o.atc , it
would appear somewhat odd tfyat ti ey ihou|rt Ut Calit'd
upon for money when they weie really ciui ois. in
fiich cases, all that could be expected y u aid iietnat a
balance fnould be hruck. ile tiiereiorc p.oj.oled *
resolution, direiiihg the committee of commerce and
manufactures to enquire whether any oi .iic itatu
brought in debtor fi'ates by the coinmifTio««.rs, were
holders of debts of the United States/ It t'fiey were»
he raid, the United btatcs h?d the of payment
in theii own hands. He fiould move that the co.mnit
tee might rife, in order to brin this prbpo
fition. £To be continued J
The Lyceum,,for free Debate,
In the College- Hall.
On Wednetday Evening r;ext the nth January, 1797,018
toiiowiag tjucftiou will be debated.
(The Chsir to be taken at seven o'clock.)
" I» the traffic in and holding of fiave» ccnfiftent with
" humanity, morality, liberty, or policy : »r dilgracefal
•.< to.any nation that fanetiens "or tolerates it."
0" The queflion ollaft Wednefday-on the eftablifliment
ol a National Umvcruty, was dibated, by a nameroiu
and lcfpeclable company, and decided in the negative r
•nly live in the tilUi mative.
The Traftees of the have been pleased to
favor this inltitution with the u(c «1 the College-Hall; and
ivlr. ill the lante In. ral spirit, givuigthe ule of
the accommodations provided for ins Lecture,; the ma
nagers of the Lyceum think it proper thus publicly to ac
knowledge their relpeiftive fenle of this liberality thus
publicly.
Additional fires (hall be provided in the Hall during the
remainder of the cold fcalon, and ladies and jeiultmco
coining early may he accommodated with comfortable
feats.
The managers finding the receipts of the firft evening
exceed their expenditures, think it proper.to notify, that
the lurplus of that and every future evening, wilt be ap
plied to iome uieiui, putUc, 01 charitable purpose.
/>»cimittancc ior Ladies & Gentlemen i-Bth of a-dollars
6 - dtw.
In Council, 22d December 1796.
The Executive of Virginia will, on or before the ftrft
day ol March next, be ready to receive propolals for the
importation from Europe, of ■
Four thousand stand of Arms.
To be delivered at Richmond, in the course of the enfuin®
\ eir ~ , ts of a inulket, the length of
theba_rrelto be three fset eight inches, and to receive a
ball of the-iii* of eighteen to the pound—a double bridled
lock upon the best conftru<fti«n—fieJt bras, mounting—
fte,l ramrod, and to be well flocked r-ith black walnut;
and a bayonet one foot five inche. jn the blade—a ear
touch box, fultable to the musket, to contain twentMOur
cartridges with neat black leather belt,, mounted with
j buckles ; together with a bruih wiper fur the pin,
and picker for the touch-hole. The Executive will alfe
be ready to receivc propofils, within the period above
mentioned, for the manufacturing within jchis state, th«
nn»bef of ftaud of arms, to be delivered at-Rich
mond, w the course of the year 1798.
By order of the Executive-.
Attcft,
Jan. 6.
■d' Blair, C. C.
•ton.Philadelphia,
FRIDAY EVENING, JANUARY 6, 1797.
dl
Masriiß, ytfterday at Friends'meeting, Benja- ®f
m# Horner, senior, to Mrs. ,J>ne Williams, b(
both of this city. ta
. Uft evening, by Hilary Baker, Enquire, th
Sickquoinneyouhee, alias John Walker, one to
o? the Chiefs of the Cherokee nation of Indians, to ar
Miss Ann Jane Durant, of this city.
gjf The Members of the Society for Alleviating
the Mi eries of Public Prisons, are rcquefted to attend *
their slated meeting, at the German School House in
Cherry-alley, the 9th inft. at 6 o'clock in the evening.
CALEB LOWNES, Sec'ry. gi
January 6. 11l
MUSEUM, January sth. 1794.
Mr. F*nno,
FEELING myfelf happy in being the instrument
of relieving the diftrefTes of the. unfortunate, I with .
heirt felt pleasure inform the citizens of Philadelphia,
1 th* 1 have already received from the sale of tickets or. I m
Wc lnefday, the sum of one hundred and forty four of
dollars, which 1 have del verd to the poll master gen- r
eral, so tranl'mifiian \o the fufTerers by fire at Savan- j.
nah. .
By a little labour, I have bought fom.e knowledge
of human nature, in several inftanees, such as I shall ar
remember with pleasure.' To enumerite every trait of
liberality is unneceflary; fuffice it t# fav,, that many Oi
contributed in a very becoming manner—And here, I
present my grateful thanks to my fellow ci lzens j c!
whs have enabled me to become one of th- ir agents,
in an of humanity, and especially I am thankful
to tiiofe printers who have generously published my ad
▼eriifement on this occasion without charge. Sir, !l
your publishing this, with the annexed anecdote, will
oblige C. V. PEALE. if
A middle aged woman with modest address, ap- p
proached the mufeurn door ; her dress bespoke that her a|
wants we; e fuppiied by industry ; at that momenta
small company came forward presenting their tickets
for aitmiffion. The good woman wilhod to let them n
pafli, and then most courteoully demanded, what was ''
t the price of entrance ? only one quarter of a dollar— p
here said fte, holding out her hand, with twoquarters ; t<
Itismy mite, and was turning away. But, madam, j,
won't you vi k into the museum now, Ihe re- •
plyed, theit is company enough there without me and
I will find a quarter to pay for feeing it fame other •
day, and retired uttering pathetic benediAions, 11
NEW THEATRE. v
One who saw Mr. Cooper s Penruddock on "
Wednesday evening, observes, lhat no adtor has gi- c
Ten him so great fatisfaftion or appears to po(Tefs 1
powers that encourage so fair a hope of his being F
pre-eminently the fii It in his art. This .opinion is
so jnded on his being very young and Hill far from r
perfect in his acting. 3
Hiepowtrof exprefiing paflion and its changes f
bv his face and the fl sibility nnd enetgy of his f
r tones are really hne. Let him bevrare both of cen- '■
sure and praise. Some blamed him because he flag'd '
and feli off in spirit after some time. The truth is, 1
«n the judgment of one at least, he rattled too much. s
Ovtr-aSiing is the fault of-this flage and probably 1
of molt others. 1
PANTHEON.
(
PONEY RACES. i
The estimation in which the Poney Races are held
is not unworthy of notice. It is truly wonderful to
■ observe- with what emulation these little crcatttres, as
well as their riders, firive to attain the pre-eminence ;
particularly the le»ft Poney Boxer (who generally
•wins the race) discovers a degree of fagacify and f ift- >
ness that are altogether uncommon —In (hort, to the 1
lovers of horfemanlhip this mull be a very agreeable
treat. The circle, in conjundlion with the tlage, is
I formed into a jace-courf in miniature, and is well ,
regulated. We trust that Mr Ricketts will ever enjoy
that degree of public patronage which he has hitherto
merited.
COMMUNICATIONS.
Thitaufttf Republicanism.
Democrats, if now you hear half as much as
you hl*e said on this fubje<3, you will be very wea
ry, and very angry. But be patient, you have
* had your day.
You swear to a man that France renounces forer
rer the unjust and abominable doßrine of meddling
with other governments. 1 his is not true, for j
Gfegoirc in hisreport fays the rights and duties of
rations (which he had made an enumeration of) re- j
late only to those nations which have made liberty
and equality the basis of their governments. The j
French of couife are the judges. f
' But if it were so, which it is not. how could the
taufe of Rcpablicanifm depend on the French I A
poor dependence if the wild, inconsistent and wick
ed a<3s of the French fattier,s could affect that
- good cause. They may iofult, they may disgrace
it. It is not tin it affair to save it, or to exemplify
it by their doings. No good Republican will pre
tend it.
This is one of the thouland and one Democratic
lies and inconsistencies.
But admit the fa<3, that the cause of republica
nism depends on the French. Then they serve it
badly. Are the people of Sardinia made republi
fcans, the Pftiffians, the Germans ? No, no, no,
tier the Spaniards. The French by treaty give a
fanßion to monarchy. Probably they agreed wi-h
i Fruffia that if he would quit the Coaliti»n he should
keep his share of plundered Poland.
, The world will be left just as monarchial as e
ver. Let them not boast of Holland. It is a
French province. But the Stadthol'-.er was a mere
Shadow of the Executive power before he fled.
Let us be undeceived, though it will be a year ,
or two later than the reft of'the world. Their
victories may conduct their armies to galleries of
piilures and to rich cities. There they may load
mavy waggons with plunder. But as to princi
ples, Tippoo,Saib advances them as much, and
difgr,aces there less.
Let -fafls it lift open the eyes of those second
fightedj dupes who saw, and swore that they saw.
a new republican millenium beginning in Europe.
They Jaw "the Ba'a-tail'd mare" "go up. into
the air."
By this day's Mail. S
w]
BOSTON, Decen/ber 29. th
Captain Cowetl arrived here yetlerday, in 60
days from Amfterdsnj, infsrtns, that a few days !' c
after he left Amsterdam, he was brought to, and j-J
boarded, by the Briiirti si igate Concord, the cap- eai
tain of which took away one of his seamen ; that wl
the captain of the Conctird told him,- he belonged i*
to a fleet of t8 fail of the line, several transports ,n
and flat bottomed boats, wi'h troops on board ; J ln '
that they were bound for the Texel, which placc , to
they were going to attack ; that a few hour's after- j m '
wards he fell in with a fleet aufwering tha defcrip- 1 an
tion given by the captain of the Concord. j o p
Captain Cowell's infoi malign from the armies, a
gr«es with the accounts already received and pub- !
lifhed in America.' ■
In the Commerce, captain Gowell, from Amfler- p
dam- came pafl'enger, Mr. Edward Blake, of Bos- w
ton.
LONDON, October 26. 1 j (
We are sorry to state, that on Saturday infor- q
maiion was received that the Malabar man of war,
of 54. guns, captain Parr, one »f the convoy of our
Jamaica fleet, foundered at sea on the nth inlt.
Happily, just as (he was going down, Martha, ne
merchH itm n, captain Sedmond, hove in fight, !
and was fortu; ale enough to save the whole of the i
cren-, wi'h whom file ariived fafe at Portsmouth
On Friday.
The Eurus frigate, lately taken from the Dutch,
captain Rofs, failed fr»m the Nore on Sa urday co
morning for Spithead, with 15c troops on
board, pan of the 87th and 911 regiments, des
tined, as is supposed, for Gibralt:^
Letters from Bruffelsof the Bth inft. state, that
:he greaieft ferment prevails throughout the Bulgic
provinces, especially in Biaban , where infurreftions
are every where app r ehended. The ecclrfiaftical
property is about to be seized by the French com
missioners ; but the people, strongly bjgotted to
their miniftein, and their religion, seem, in several
parts, disposed to refilt the confifcation by open
torce, in which they are encouiaged Jby the emi
grants and refia&ory nonjuing pnells. The ma
jor part of the people of propeity, iiy every part
us Belgium, are either fending, or have' already
sent, their effects to foreign countries.
Letters from Berlin of the nth inft. bring ad
vices, that his Prussian majesty has concluded an
uffeiifive and defenfive alliance with the ele&or of
Saxnny, and the landgrave of HefTe Caffel, in vir
tue »f which, both those princes reciprocal'y lli
puli'.ie to grant each other every affiilance that dial!
he required, to refill any'attacks made Upon their
rtfpeflive teilitories by the house «f N Au(tria( or
any other continental powei, that (hall attempt to
fouc them to relinquilh their neutrally during the
present war. This treaty was concluded about the
Ijtter end of August ; but we tinderllund, that it
has not as yet bepn finally ratified by the ele&oi of
Saxony. The dukes of Bmnfwuk, Mecklenhtirg
and Wirtemberg, the margrave of Baden, »nd
some other princes ill the noithern parts of Get
many, have been invited to join in thi treaty.
PORTSMOUTH, Gftober 24.
Arrive this day, the cutter, from
Gibraltar, with dispatches, said to be of a very
important nature; but the greatelt fectecy as to
particulars, is obfer\'ed on hoard.
NEW-YORK, January 5.
A friendly correspondent has fav.rred U3 with a
file of -he Gazelle National, printed a': Paris, to
the 20th of O&ober inclusive—received by the (i
Huntrefa, from Bourdeaux, arrived lafl week. ,f
This is fix days later than any printed Parilian in- e
via England.
We hafien to translate the ttioO importaHt arti
elcs from them, as follow— [Argus.] '
OSlober 15. j
The five ships of the line from Rochefort and ,
I'Oiient (which we msntioned the day before yes- i
terciiy) and which have failed for Bieft, hav e , as ,
well as those which are in the harbor, their crews
fully completed, alrd have fix months proviSon on
board. The Zealous and the Conflitu'.ion ar com
manded by two commodorcs, the last of which is '
the well known citizen L'Heritirr.—Be/ides those
men of war, there are several others, the greatest '
: part ef which are three deckers, whose crews are
; I now completed. The squadron of Berthanme, is
: i also at Bveft ; the bad weather having compelled !
| them to make that port, which they effe&ed on the
' sth complimentary day. There aie now on the
; j llocks in the port of l'Orient, several (hips of 74
! guns, one of this number is ready to be launched,
: | it was built bB the model of the ConftituiioH and
■ has the fineft appearance.
PAIRIS, O&eber 16.
' The following is 'extradled from Perlet's journal
: at the article Roederer.
f Shall we have peace, or fltall we continue the
" war? this is the general anxiery at present—Does
England ieally wish for peace ? Does Aurtria desire
■ it ? Such are the enquiries of fome-. Does the
French government wish for it themfelres !' are the
" enquiries of others—-for my part, 1 reduce a l! the
' above queftiona or enquiries to this single one ;
" Can the French government continue Ihe -war f If
» this queilion be answered in the affirmative, they
u *ri!l wilh. for peace, England also as well as »he
emperor. If they are unable to continue the war,
they will wish to continue it, England also as well
3s the emperor. C#e half at least, of what 1 just I
advanced, is I think very intelligent to every body
a What may not be fd, is, that it being in the pow
e. er of the Fr'ench government to carry on the war
m;:y wish for peace, and may not wish for peace if
it cannot carry on the war—l will therefore proceed
ir to explain myfelf. [The commentary is as explicit
'f as the text.] *
d S I RASBOURG, 17 Vendemaire. |
i- The Auffrijns flill continue their incursions on the
it! 1, ft bank of the Rhine. The large body of the ene
my who have marched towards Germefeeim have for
-1(] ted the country people in the environs of Hirxhem and
of all the neighbouring townships Jo deflroy ibe en-
' trenchrcents which the French had eftablifhei there be
fore. A detachment of ijo horse went afterwards to
to Lauterbourgh with a design to take pofTefTion of two
coufiderable magazines of grain and hay. They had
llready.begaa t« force the inkabitanti te fjpply them
with horses and waggons to tarry off their booty,
when the troops who had marched from here to meet
tliem arrived at Lautirb«urgh, and drove them frbm bo
ihence. The hay remained whole, but the enemy car- in;
ried oft three hundred quintals ps corn. They did not
lay the town under contribution but contented thctn- in]
salves with exaftng a certain quantity of brandy for bu
each of them. This party was commanded by a man fui
who spoke the French language very well, an' who
is said to be an emigrant from Mentz. La!l night, wi
another strong detachment from the enemy appeared ag
in. the neighbourhood of Wanzeneau, but they took
to flight the moment they discovered the republicans ro;
marching towards them.
The municipal adrmtiiftrators of Lauterburgl) till
and WifTemburgh, took to flight at the approach u>
of the enemy, and are fafely arrived in this town,
but the carriage which was transporting the papers
of tlie juflioe of the peace |f Wiflembutgh, tho'
escorted by the gendarmerie, was plundered of af
fignats ovd mand'ats, by the peaf<)nu, between
WilTemburgh and Ssltz.
P S. We at this moment have received the molt
pleasing i-itelligence 'from the army of Moreau.
O:/ the loth and I Ith, the enemy have been mod
completely beaten. It was on. Gen. Latour the
principal advantage was obtained. The firft tnef
fenger who was difpatch'ed with that important Be
news, wis afTaflloated on his way, which is the
cause that it-did not reach its sooner. ~
£PutliJh:J in tie United States l»ng Jinct.~\
— H<
BREST, Vendemaire 13.
Here follows a Hatement of our fleet, which is
completely manned and victualled.—
Guns. M
Ocean < 130
Invincible 110
Indomptable 74 p c
"Trajan , 74
Fougueux 74
W-atigny 74
. Redoutable 74
Nestor 74 mi
Patriot 74 -
Rights of Man 74 1
Cttfar 74
Convention 74
Pluto . - 74 w
Conftitntiotl 74
Zealous 74
"Mtufe 74 -
74
In the Inner Harbour, ready to join
the above in the Ou'.ei Harbour— J"
Mnjcftucux * HO ■ q,
Terrible , 110 in
Tourville 74 , < gi
Seduifant 74 81
Ships cut down.
Brutus \ 44 _
Scevola 44 ti
Frigates. T
Charent
Refcilue
Bcllonuc
Coquille
Bravoure
Concorde > x
Fraternite
Sutveillante j
Syren e ii
L'lmmortaltte s*
Fidelle ?
Precjeufe c
Vengeance. - v
Two frigates not comprehended in the above t
ttatement, are just arrived from L'Orient, and be- ''
• fides several others, men of war, which are expect- |
edboth from that pott, and from Rochefort. t
— I
HAVRE-DE-GRACE, Ven. 10.
By a letter from the of the French
government in England, we learn, that boih go
vernments have at last agreed to the articles relating,
to a genera! exchange of prisoners on both fides,
which is to take place very (hortly.
<
NEW-YORK, January 5.
ARRIVED. Days. (
Ship Minerva, Ciowinfhield, Hamburg 56 :
. I Brig Fair American, M'Farlane, Wilmington 12
Sehr- Polly, Walker, Norfolk v lB
Jolly Robin, Prior, North Carolina 7 .
( We have been favoured with Hamburg papers, re
. ceived yesterday by the fbip Minerva, to the 7th Nov.
The. difficulty of obtaining immediate translations, and
: the later.cfs of the hour at. which the papers were re
: ceived, prevent our detailing the articles they contain
|. for this day's Advertiser. They will be furnifhed to
morrow.
] In a cursory view, however, we have noted tht fol
lowing :
A letter of General Moreau, dated Odt.s.
After describing long marches, fays:
' "Thus, an army of which the enemy boasted he
would certainly make pfifoners, now threaten* him
e with an attack, ai:d returns to cover the frontiers, as
s ter a match of too leagues without >he least lofi; dtir- j
c ing which they took from the enemy 18 pieces of can--)
non, a pair of colours ind nearly 7000 prisoners,
amongst which there art 80 officers."
e FRANKFORT, Oa. »».-
> Under this date a confirmation is given, that Gen.
f Moreau on 'is retreat attacked the Imperial Gen. Pe
y trafch, and rtpulftd hifn with the loss of, from 1500 to
j- 2000 men, and that be had been confiderahly reinforc
r; ed ' -
[ ! . VIENNA, OA. 16.
Under this date mention is made of the arrival of a
I mefienger from the French Diredlory, with difpatch
v. es to that (court. The contents are not stated , but
ir they are particular ifi di ess, &c. of the j
jf messenger ; that he had been taken ill after his arrilval , I
and that in c»niequenci of which, corifiderable atten
tion was paid 10 hira--( this looks pacific.)
II An artii le dated Leipfic, OA. aa, fays—" Rum
ours of a peace between the Emperor and the French
Republic, grow daily stronger; and upon good
lie grounds it is supposed that the Cabinet of Berlin is ve
e- ry instrumental in the business."
t- The Armistice between the Pope and the French re
nd public was about being broken by the, former: He
n- had addrtfled letters to the different Powers of Europe
on the fubjeA. Tht cafe it not u'ated, but ftveral ar
to tieles from different parts of Italy confirm the expefla
■vo tion of an immediite'commencement of hofiiiitics be
-2d tween the Papal troops and those of the Republic.
M.VRTINSBURG, (Virginia) Dec. Vs.
ACCIDENTAL OCCURRENCES.
Triday lift a fire brake out at the south part cf the
borough of Winchester, which costumed two dwell
ing-heufes.
Saturday morning the roof of the grift mill belanf
ing to Mr. Edward Bcefon, near this town caught fire,
but bring timely discovered, no mateiial damage was
sustained.
Two dwelling-houses in this town have taken fire,
within a few days pift, but providentially, little dam
age done.
A free negro man was found dead and frozen in tfie
road near Shepherd's-tnwn, on Saturday making.
The night, a m|n w« burnt t« death, in a dif
till-houfe a few miles from town.
Pantheon,
AND RICKETT S's AMPHITHEATRE.
Corner •of Chefnut and Sixth-ftreeu
For Equestrian and Stage Performances.
TO-MORROW E\*NING, Saturday, January 7»
H O.R S E M A N S H I P.
TW SIEGE OF TROY,
Or, The World turn'd UpfVle Down,
Which has given so much fatisfaflion.
A Sung by Mr. Chambers.
Between the intervals ef the Stage, Mr. Ricketts will
in particular go through the following performances
in the Equestrian Department.
He will ride a single horse with a pair of Ikates oa hi*
feet, ard go through several attitudes. %
He will like wife ride two horses in fulffpeed, take a
leap, and dart through the r«prf fentation of a blaz
ing fun ten feet high, and recover his situation on
the other fide, in full fpced.
Mr. Rickets willride two Horses, csrry Mailer Hutch
ins, the young American, on his flioulders m the at
titude of a flying Mercury.
A Song, by Miss Sully-
Poney Races, with real Ponies.
The whole to eunckide with a new Pantomime, ,
HARLEQUIN'S RAMBLES,
Or, The Abfurdites of Mankind. "
Doors to open at 5, and the Performance to com
mence at 1-4 after 6 o'clock.
Furnifhpd Apartments; or
Board & Lodging.
WANTED by two young gentlemen. Answers,
wi'h particulars, to be addressed to S. F. at the offic«
of this paper.
January 4. ?•
Public Noticc,
f! HKR£BY GIVEN, that I have applied to the
judges of the Supreme Court of this slate, to supply the
deleft in my Title,to a lot of ground, situate en tne Weft
fide «f Fourth-flreet, containing in breadth 20 feet, and
in length 56 feet, bounded Northward and Wcftward, by
ground of the fubi'criber, Southward by ground of Edward
Bhippep, and Eaftr/ard by Fourth-ifrcet, occasioned by
the loss of a deed from Timothy Harrington, John Lewi*
and James Walton, by their attorney Robert Mollyneux*
—All persons concerned, are required to appear before
two of the justices of the feid court, at the house of
Thomas M'Kean, esq. the Chief Jaflice of the {late, on
the 30th infh at 10 o'clock in the forenoon, to make their
answer to the bill of the fuhfcribtr, ffrd in the office of
Edward Burd, efq, Prothonotary of the said court.
WILLIAM SHIPPSN, jun.
Philadelphia, January 6th, 4797. , dtgoth
T C) BE SOLD,
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, coun»
tyof Glouceftcr, a»d ilateof New-Jeifey, contain
ing about one hundred and fifty acres ; a suitable propor
tion of which is woodland and improved meadovf. A
great part of the arable land is in a high state of cultiva*
tion, and very natural to the production of Red Clover*
On {aid plantation there is a genteel two-story brick house,
with four room 9 on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
e the whole ; together with a'barn, corn-cribs and carriage
». house I'he garden is large, and contains a good coilec
, tion of the best kinds of grafted and iaoculat.'d fruit trees $ m
the orchard consists of about three hundred gnifted app'e
trees. Any person inclined to purchase said pr'emites, may
be informed ©£ the terms by applying to
ANDREW HUNTER,
h July 19 F
% Dancing.
s, MR. FRANCIS of the New-Theatre, in conjunAion
with Mr. BYRN, late Ballet-master, and principal dan
cer [of Covent-Oarden Theatre, London, now of the
New Theatre in this city, opened their Academy at Mr.
s Oellers Hotel, on Tuesday, December 13, where thsy
' propose to teach, iti the raoS new and approved methods,
Dancing in its various uieful and ornamental branches.
2 Ms". Byrn's recent attention to the dances of London
8 and Paris will eriahle him to ymplete this branch of
' education in his scholars in the moil finilhed style.
e- Favorite Scotch reels will also engage .their particular
v. attention. \
id The days of teaching for their ypung .pupils are Thurf
■ e . days and Saturdays, from three o'clock in the afternoon
; B till Ci—and onTueldays & Thursdays, from fix till nine,
0 . for those of a more advanced age.
For farther particulars enquire of Me£fr». Franeis
s ]_ and Byrn, No. 70, north Eighth-street.
*„* Private tuition as usual.
Philadelphia, December 16, 1796. oaw
he Pennsylvania Population Company.
im THE Stockholders arc hereby notified, that an elc&iof)
a s- | for Officers for the ensuing year, wdlbe held at the Corn
er- I pany's Office. No. 53, North Fourth-street, on Wednef
-11- -j jay th/nth January next, at ii o'clock,
rs, I By Order of the Board,
SOL. MARAGHE, Secritart.
December 31. « s.w. & w^
l n e _ F 0 R S A L E,
ito A very Valuable Eltate,
irC * /CALLED TIV IT TEN HA M, situate in the
township of -Upper Derby, andcountyof Delaware*
7 1-2 miles from Phiiad lphia, and half a mile from the
new Western road: containing 230 aeres of excellent land *
a 45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime Wood**
land, and the reil arable of the firlt quality. There are
ut on thepremifesagood tw® story brick house, with grooms
the on a floor, and cellars under the whole, witli a pump-well
al » of excellent water in front; a large frame bain, ftabk-s,
en- and other oonvenient building*; a smoke-house and ltone#
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of pcach
im- es. The fields are all in clover, except those immediate\y
nch under tillage, and are so laid oat as to have the advantage
oocl of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con*
ve- venient for grazing.
Tht situation is pleasant and healthy, and from thehiglj
1 re- sultivAtion of the land, the good neighbourhood, and t!i«
vicinity to the city, it is-very /uisable for a gentleman
-ope country\feat. ;
■ The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Hartr.au,
ucccaicd, and offered for sale by
' l fc e ". Mordecai Lewis,
I OA' 31. taw v Surviving Executor.New Books.
Robert Campbell & Co.
No. 40, Smith See on JJlreet,
Are just opening a large and extenlive aflortment of
the latest andbeftLasdon editions, among which
are the following new, valuable and fcirce Books.
ColleAian of State Papers, relative to the present wars
bttween England and Franec, containing authentic copie
of all the treaties, manifeitoes, prtciamatieHS, &c. made
bv the different powers, 3 vols. 8 v»<
Stedman's Hiilory ef the American Revolntion, 1 vols
4ts, with elejant naps, plates, Sec.
Ferguiun'j hiflcry of the Reman republic, 3 vol. 4 to.
.Britiih Poets, 75 rols. with the lives by or. Johnson.
Same h«ok, 44 vols.
King works 10 vols. Svo French.
Megnot's survey ef the Ottoman Empire, by Hawkins,
4 vols.
"Mrrabenu's fpecches in the Natietial allcmbly, tiauflited
by Wbite, i vols-
Pouglafs's travelling anecdotes.
Secret hiflory of Charles 11. i vols.
British Plutarch, 8 vols. 12 mo.
Ceuptreau's eonfefTions, 1 vols.
Venya's hillory of California, a vols, Bvo.
Anderfon's account of China, $ vo.
Beaumont and, Fletcher's works, 10 vols. Svo.-
Eft's journey thro' ptanders, Brabant and Germany to
Switzerland, ivo.
Wyndhams's travels jthro' Europe, 4 vlis, Svo.
Smyrnove's furvty of the Ruffian Empire.
ForHer's northern voyages, 8 vo.
Varieties of literature, z vol. 8 vo.
Grozier's description of China
Wefton'sifniverfal Botanist, 4 vols. 8 vo.
Elegant extracts in Natural History, 1 vols. Bva
Guthrie's hitlery ei the world, 12 vols
D'Anville's compendium ©f ancient geography,! vpls.
with maps, &e.
Blackftone's commentaries on the laws of England, by
Ckrittian, 4 vols. '
John Hall Stephenfon's works, 3 vols. Svo.
Langhorn's Plutarch, 6 vols, ix mu. >
Se.mties of the Drama, 4 vols.
IMuller's liiuitrau m of the Sexual fyflcnu, 1 vols. Svo.
with plates
ft ieitley's leftiyjes on hillory, s vols. Bvo.
Chambers's Diitionary of arts and iciences, by Dr. Ree6,
5 vols, folio.
Beawe's hi.Ltjry' civil, commercial, political and literary
of Spain and Portngal, 2 vols in one,- folio,
Manftein's memoirs of Rufiia, from 1717 with
maps, plans, &c. 4t0..
Ferreft's voyage to New Guinea, with plates, 4to.
Wright's travels thro' France, a vols. Svo
Uougiafs en the antiquity ot the earth, 4to
Clavigero'shiltory of Mexico, trauflated hy Cullcn, 1 vols
4to- plates.
Candorcet's life ofTurgot
Maretti's travels thro' Cyprus, Syria, Jcc. 1 vols.
Lavater's efiays on Physiognomy, j vols. Svo.
World Diiplay'd, 20 vols, borund in 10.
Memoirs d* Dumouriez.
Foundling hospital for wit, a colleflion of fugitive pieces,
10 vols. nmo.
Letters from Paris in 1751 and'9l, with a reprefantation
of the capture of Loois XVI. at Varennes, 1 vols.
S vo.
Moore's view of Society and manners in Italy, France,
Switzerland and Germany, 4 vols. Bvo.
Rufiel's modern Europe, 5 vols.
Gibbon's Roman Empire, 1 vols, abridged.
Andrew's hifto,y of the war with America, France, Spain
and Holland, 4 f els. Svo with portraits, maps, plans, &c.
Riheaut's hiltory of the French Revolution.
Clloa's voyage to South America
Burke on the fuhliine and beautiful
Neckar on the administration of the French finances
Mortimer's complete dictionary of trade and commerce
folio.j " ,
Northern antiquities, 1 vols. Bvo. .
Dodfley's colledion of Poems. 6 vols. Bvo.
Radchffe's journey thro' Holland, 4to.
Pennant's history of Quadrupeds, with elegant engravings,
1 vols. 4to.
Phdofophical DiAionary, 4 vol. 12 mo.
Bolingbroke's Philosophical works, 5 vol. Bvo,
Antiquitel's memoirs ef the Coart of Louis xvi. 1 vol. Bve
Children's friend, in Italian, 4 vol Bvo. .
Home's element's of criticism, a vol. Bvo.
Collection of prologues, &c. 4 vo . umo.
Suchan's life ol Fletcher and i hornton, Svo.
Gay's fables, with elegant engravings, S vo.
XenneQy on (gardening, z vol. Svo,
Abercrombie's Gardener's Dictionary, 3 vol. It mo.
Remarkable inkances in ancient and modern history, ex
eniplihed by biographical Iketches.
Biographical Didionary, containing the lives of the moil
eminent persons, Bvo.
Comparative display of different opinions on the French
revolntion, 2 vol. %
Complete art of Book-keeping. 1
Biographical anesdotesoi'W. Hogarth the Painter.
Bufton's Nataral hillory of Birds, 9 voj. Svo.
Elegant extracts, prose, verfe.cpiftle and sermons 4Volßvo.
Martiniere, le Grend Di&ionaire Geographiqve et Cri
tique, 13 vol. folio. j /
New fyftena of Natural History, 3 vol. S vo. with plates-
Plans for the government of Britilh India, publilheil un
der the auipiccs of Mr. Dundasas Secretary, 4to.
Lera Hawkeibury on the conduAof Great-Britain, to
Neutral nations.
Hoyle's Dictionary, or treasury of music, Bvo.
History of France, from the fir ft cftibiiihment of that
monatchy. to, and including a narration of the late
revolution, 3 vol. Bvo.
History of Spain, 3 vol.
Goldfinith's experimental philosophy, 1 vols. Sv®-.
Kippax's Tneory and PraAice of Commrrce.
Pmtlock'a and Dixon's Voyages.
Family Brewer. 1
Travels of Anaicharfis.
Thompson's Seasons, elegant edition
Payne's Geagraphical Extra&s
Syflem of natural history, 1 vol. from the German of
ProfefTor Raft"
Williams's Utters from the 28th of Jnly to the efta
blifhmeat of the c»nftitution of '95
Frend's Algebia
Chalwers's colle<slion of' treaties, 2 vol.
Six on the conftrudlion and use of thermometers
Evans, 4 v®l.
Clarentine, 3 vol.
Sullivan's view of nature, 6 vol.
Btloe's translation of Herodoti:s, 4 v»l.
Pindar's works, with a new volume
King of Prussia's work, to vol. in French
Marlhal's rural ornaments, 1 vol.
Hoole's tranflatiort of Arioflo, 2 vol.
The kifTes of Johannes Secundes
Belliham's memoirs of the reign of George lIL
Letters of an Hindoo Rajah, 2 vol.
dward's history ofthe Welt-Indies, 1 vol.
Bells Britilh theatre, 25 vol. elegant
Jones's do. Ie vol. do.
Ouvres de Vnltaire, 70 torn. do.
Works of the king of Prussia, 13 vol. (Irtglifti) do.
Abbe de Calonne's view of the political ftatc of Europe
Swift's works, 17 vol.
tetters from Scandinavia, 2 vol.
Gibbon's miscellaneous works, 3 vol.
Gibbon's Roman Empire, 6 vol.
Colleilion of Farces, 6 vol.
R. C. & Co. litvo received a;i immense cslleiStion o r .
Buokj ja every department of literature—London ami '
Dublin editiuns —arnongft which are a capital aliort
ment of L \W-BOOKS, MEDICAL BOOKS, &c.
all in the neatest and l'ome of them in the molt splen
did binding*.
Public and private Libraries supplied on the raoft
reasonable terms.
December 24 oawjw
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE and PRICE,
No. 79, Market-street, Pmladelphu,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, 1 large aflnrtment «f WARRANTED
IVA'I CUES, eonfifting of horizontal, capp'd and
jewd'd Gold Watehes, with focoads, of fifperior
: workmanlhip and elegance i also capp'd and jewel d
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jewell'd, capp'd,
fcconds, day of the memth, and plain Silver Watches;
eight day & chamber Clocks,; elegant French Clocks
with marble frames; eight day and thirty ho»r, brass
works, ice.
t Decembet 22, 1706. dim
C A u no N. ~
WHEREAS very large and lieary debts ?re juftlv
due and Owing from mefl'rs. Blair M'Clcnttchan an"d
Patrick Mtore, of the city of Philadelphia, merchants,
trading under the firm of Blair M'Slenaelxm ami P.
Moore, and from Blair irl'Clenachan in his feparat*
capacity ; to whisb, by the laws of the land, all the
joint as wejl as separate property of the said, Gentle
men, is, and ought to be, liable. And whereas
it is clearly and fetisfa&orily afcertaineu, that inr.
Blmr M'Clenacban, of the said firm, has conveyed
away to mr. "John H. Hujlon, his 'fon-in law, to J>is
daughter, aiifs M'Chnacban, and to his son, Setrge
M'Clenachnn, several large and valuable real estates,
as well as eonfiderable personal property, in the city
and county of Philadtlphia, in the county of Lancas
ter, in the eounty of New-Castle' on Dsrlaware, and
slfewhere, with a view, es it is apprehended, to de
feat the Creditors in the recovery of their just debts.—<
This is, therefore, to forewarn all perfoas whamfa
ever, against the pnrehefe from the f>id" grs&tees, or
either »f them, of any portion of the laid real or per
sonal property, as the most vigorous «iea fores will
withaut delay be taken ta render tie fame liable to
the just demands of the Creditors.
By order of the Creditors.
Thomas Fitafimoni,
Philip Nicklin, /
ljuac Vharton, J" Committee.
William M'Mnrtrit, 1
Samuel W. t'i/ker, -J ,
Philadelphia, December I7thj 1796. loth.J
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE caution introduced into the public prints,
warning all pe/foHS 'aqainft pun-hating from the
grantees »f Blair M'Gieuachan, any portion of the
large, r«al and personal estates he conveyed away to
hit fon-in law and to his children was the result of
a deliberation had upon the fubjeft by a general and
numerous meeting of the creditors as well of Blair
M'Cleaachan and P. Moore as ef Blair M'Clena
chan individually. It was 110 mere than an execu
tion of that trust confcd«d in the? fubferibers by
those creditors: a step which it would have been a
btaech of duty and honor in them to have emitter!.
The very ftatcment of the fat* therefore mall djf
pcl the imputation that it was either " precipitate
or vindictive." It originated in a dcfirc to feeure
the property of the debtor as a fund far the pay
ment of his just debts. It was fanAioned by the
advice otcoancil as a measure neeejary to the fafety
of the creditors. Jf the advertisement has been
injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
to his own unjafliliable conduct, not to the fnb
fctibers who lujre merely published the truth in
terms as mild i?s the faSt would admit, and who
mean to investigate in a high court of justice the
validity of thole pnr'chafes of which Mr. M'Clc
■achan so confidently speaks.
The fubferibers therefore are bound by a sense
of dnty to the creditors in general to repeat their
eaution against puroJ>afing of those grantees or
either of them, and to extend the terms of it to a
pnrehafe from any other perfous (if such there be)
to whom Mr. M'Clcnachan may have made similar
cenveyannes.
(Signed) T. FITZSIMONS,
* P. NICKLIN,
ISAAC WHARTON*
WILLIAM M'MURTRIE,
SAM-UEL W. FISHER.
Philad. Dee. 21, 1796.
fc-f" Those printers who have been requested to
publifii the firlt Caution, are defirsd to publiih this
also. .
Walhmgton Canal Lottery,
No. I.
WHEREAS the S®tate of Maryland has authorjfed
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thoufanu,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Walhington, froxi th Po
tomacto theEaftern Branch Harbour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. 1.
Viz .1 Prize of 10,000 dollars, ao.ooo
I ditto 10,000 , 10,000
f last drawn J
Tickets, each j OGO 3.?,000
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,c00
to ditto ICO j ,000
SS ditto jo 1.7.J0
57J0 ditto n,' . 69,008
To be raised for the Cassl, 26,150
ißjo Prizes, ' 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175, oqp
£3" The Commiflioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aa for the pnn&ual payment o
the prizes.
I he drawing sf tins LotJery will eommence, without
delay, as soon as tlv* Tickets are fold, of which tiaielv
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finilhed, shall be considered as relinquilhed for
the benefit ef the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, c/D
LEWIS DEBLOIS, ,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City »f Feb. u. $
1 lories taken in,
For the Winter Sea/on,
And fed cm clover hay at the Subscribers pkee, 12
r»ile« on the Bristol Road, where good (tabling is pro
vided, and great eaie will be taken of them
William Bell.
Nov. 23. mwfawmtht-f.
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open his school on Mon
day the 31ft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his
Elegant hew Ball Rooms,
Iq Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets.
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to i o'eloek
on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clsck on the evenings o
the fame days.
In addition to a number of new ocrtillions, he means bo
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Ncte. The &rft pra&ifnag ball to be on Tuesday c
veiling, the firft of November-, and to be continued every
Tuesday, during the feafoii.
For terms, &c, enquire at his house, Nf.134, Market
(lrcet.
oa. 17. tthf
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufactory, fifuate
in a convenient part of'the cftv ; the works almoit new,
on an entirely original conduction, and built of the bfcft
materials, and may be set to work imVnedrately« Persons
who with to purchase, are requested to apply at No £73,
South Second Street. September 13. t t f t>t
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber on the 23d October,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; %\ years
old ; about 5 feet 8 inches high; had on a inked green
coat, with a gre<# velvet cape and oval yellow buttons j
a striped vest ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloom, and
whole boots much worn. It h probable he may change
his name and dress. He ha» been aceuftomed to driving
3 carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for l'tcuring him so that the fubferiber may get hnr.
again, and if brought home all reafsiiable charges paid by
Robins Chamberiaine.
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 $imaawtf
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentlft to the
Ki»g and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete assortment of evety thing neoefiary
to be used fortljie
Prcfcryation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Mineral Teeth, and Human & Tvory Teeth ;
Dentrifice in powder; Opiate; excellent Elixir for
sweetening the mouth and preferring the teeth—he
also furnifhes Brufhei and foft Sponges.
%.* He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, abevf
Fourtli-ftreet.
November 16. ys
Samuel Richardet
]D ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia;
The SuWfcription Room will be furnffh«d with all the
daily papers publiffced in Philadelphia, New-York, Bof
| ton, Baltimore, together'with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be rctg&larly filed
and none permitted to be taken zeway on any account.
Tea* Coffee, Soupes„Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of Frcnch Liquors; together with the usual refreihments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend op being accommodated witk
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mod
approved Malt Liquors from London and other brewerie's.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
produAiens of the Season.
Large and frnall Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenient to tliemfelves—a cold Collation is
regularly kept for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
at th# bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furniftsd, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanlifiefs, and every other
requisite.
Samuel Richardet will behappy to receive, and
the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledge®
himfctf that'nothing on his part fhallbe wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he ha* been so diftinguHh
ingly honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that pr<jpofals will be re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en
iuing, for thefupply o£ all rations which may he required
so* tile use of ihe United States, from the firft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firlt day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at\he pl*«c» and within the diftri<sis here
after mentioned, viz. At Oiwego; at Niagara; at
Pjeique Ifte; at Sandulky Lake, and on .S«mdufky
River; at Detroit; at Mic^ilimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin ; at Pittfbyrgh ; at'Cineinnati; at Fort-Hamilton ;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-JclTerfon; at Grenville; at ;
Picque Town and liOr&mies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to at Fort
Steuben ; at Fort Maffac ; at any place from Fort Maftac
to the south boundary of the United States on the river
Milfifippi ; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If supplies (hall be required ior any pods or places not
mentioned in this notice, all such fupplrcs ibali be fur
niibed at prices proportioned to thole to be paid 'at the
posts before recked, or as mny be hereafter agreed an
between the United States and the Cor.irr.-iW.
The rations to be (applied are to confiit of the fol
lowing articles,' viz.
One. pound two ounces of bread »r flour.
One pound two ouncas of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whiftey.
One quart and half a pint of fait.")
Two quarts of Vinegar,. ( . ,
Two pounds of Soap,' ( P ar hun(ircd rat,on >
One pound of Candles, J
The rations are to be furniihad in ferfh quantities, asthar
tfiere shall at p.ll times during the laid term, be fufliojeut
for the coafunaption of the troops at Michilimackicac, De
troit, Niagara, audOfvvego, for the term of lix months in
advance, and at each of the other polls, for thq term of
at least three months in advance, in good and whole some
provisions, if the fame shall be required. It is ko be un
der ilood, that tlve Contru&or is to be at the and
risk of ilTuirgthe fupplias to the tr©op6 atoach post, and
thai all losses sustained by the depredations of an enemy, or j
by means of the troops of the United States, shall be paid !
for at the pricc of the articles captured or deUroyed, on
the depofitioHs of two or more persons of creditable cha
racters, and the certificate of a commiflioncd officer, as
certaining the circumstances of the loss, and the amount
of t)tt m for which oompiwfation shall be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
f
Wafliington Lottery.
ri.CK.fiTS, v/arranted uacirawn, may be pur chafed ar
oxcHangtfd for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Cheftiut-
where a corr«<& Numerical book i& kept torpubii:
Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
changed for prizes di jwr in the Wafhingtoti Lottery, of
which the 50th and 51ft days returns are received,
dpr The* Bufinefi of a Broker carried on as ufuaff
V A SHARE in the NEW THEATRE to be foM
on reafon&bh* terms. f December 49. ttstf
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, Smith FourthJ}rcct %
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for their liberal cncouragem eot,
and begs leave to i'olicit a continuance of their favors.
He has on hand an extensive alFortruent of the
Most Fafoionable GOODS,
• :id of the bed .quality, suitable for the fesfon.
At this (hop Gentlemen call be furuiChed withthejk !t
materials, and have them made op i« the nested and m -ft
F.ifnionable manner, and an the shortest notice. lie iy.M
thankfully receive any orders, anil pay a prompt ami
panSual attention to them.
Nsvember 10. w ,
ro BE SOLD,
A L tASE far/e-vm year,,from the 2 sth March next, in I lot
capital and bawtiful F celled
PROSPECT-HILL,
Situated within one quarter of a mile from the Bra.idywine
Mills, andc.alf a mile from ihe borough of Wilmington,
dwelling house is built of (tone, two dories' high,
genteelv fini.'hed, and contain,four handfime rooms 00
a an entry, with capital garrets, znd convenient
cellara, It .is gen cully thought to command the mofta
grceable profpeS of the Delaware, from,the fomce of that
liver to the Capes. This profpeft ia greatly rmbclli.W by
a full view of a va(t body of meadow, through which the
Chnlliana and Brandywine creeks are feeri winding in beau
tiful meanders. Near ihe house are a Kiletten, a fpaeinua
hone liable and hay loft, a barn, a carriage house, rpiik
ftoufe, &c. and a well of as puifc water as any on the conti
nent. The garden contains an acre and quarter of land, a
bounding with fruit, and particularly with peach trees, of
the very bed kind, brought from Maryland, and in full Hear,
ing. There is, moreover, on the place, a young, jpole
orchard begining to bear, and lcverai old ireesthat produce
abundantly, besides cherry and other ornamental trees, in
great numbers. The farm confills of near Gxty acres of land,
ot good quality, aud clear of incumbrances, except taxed,
twenty of which ire now in excellent clover and timothy,
and ten more will be ready tor lowing next fpriiig. A i«-
fider.ee of nearly 8 years has convinced the fubferiber that
the ftuation is remarkably healthy. The groat poll lond
from Philadelphia to the Southward runs within Seventy
yards of ihe house. In a word, the beamirs and conveni
ence of this situation cannot be enumerated in an advcrtile
ment, and when examined, will probably command the at
tention of any pei son who is desirous of living at one of the
most elegant country feats on the continent. The pur-ehafer
may enter on the prcmifts nestfpring, or perhaps, thin fall,
if application be immediately made to Diclor NICHOLAS
WAY, in Philadelphia, to Dodor WH RTON, un ll«
premifcs, or, in his abfenee, to Mr. GEORGE TRUII T, in
Wilmington.
A quantity of excellent Hay, Grain in the ground, fnme
Stock, See. may be bid by the purchaser at the time of sale.
Nov - 7 eodt'f
■■■ ■ .... , 1 - ■ —- — , 1'
City of Washington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 01 THE
FEDERAL CITY-.
A magnificent > ao,ooo dollars, & 1
fjdwelling-htnifo, 3 cjfh 30,000, are 3 sD ' aoß
I ditto 15,000 & calls is,ooo 4o,oo»
I ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & csfh 10,000 so,ooo
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,090 10,00 a
1 ditto 5,000 & eaih 5,000 ic,ooo
I cash prize oF 10,000
» do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
/lo do. 1,000 - - 10,000
10 do. 500 - - **1,000
00 do. 100 - «. lOjOco
aoo do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. 25 - . 10, coo
1,000 do. to - io,ioo
15,000 do. 10 - 150,000
16,739 Prizes.
33,161 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, st Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour those who mavi take » quantity of
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dolWs will be the 1 st dr.iyva
ticket, and the 3a,ooothe last but on* 1
And approved notes, securing payment In either mousy
or prizes/in ten days alter drawing,, will be ,re«eived'for
any number not >cfs than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpeoimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ereftedin the City of Wafliington'
Two bea*tiful designs are already fcle&ed for the entire
fronts on two of the public (quart 3; from these prawings
•it ispropofed toereel two centre and four corner bailding.B,.
as soon as pofiible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complcfc, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the niaimerdefcribcd in the scheme for the Hot-el Lottery.
A nett deduction, of live p« cent, will be made to defray
the necessary e*ptnfes, of printing, the fnrplas
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
UKiverGty, to be creeled within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commctice as scon as the tickets are
old off.—The iKoney prizes will bepayaMe in thirty day*
afrer it is flnifhed ; and any prizes for which fortunate
numbers ate not produced within twelve months after ths
drawing is closed, are to be cpnfidcred as given towardu
the limj! for the University ;it :wing determined to f<jttl»
the whole bufmefs in a year from the eiding of thfcdraw
i»g, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
arc held by the President and two Direiftors of the Bank
of Columbia, and l are valued at more tpai) half the a
mount ol the lottery.
The twenty lour gentlemen who by appointment of
the late .Commifftdners assisted jn the managemc»s of th«
Hotdl'Lottery are rojudted to undertake this arduous talk
a Second tune 011 bdiaif ef the public ; a fafficietit num
ber of these having kindly acctpted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National,Univerfity arid the other f-.dcral ob.
jeiSsmajr contiKueto favor the defijn.
By accounts received from the.'di::etent parts of th»
Continent as well as from Europe, where "the tickctn
have been lent for sale, the public ar? aifured that tbi
drawing will speedily commence, and that the care ar.d
caution unavoidably ne-ellary to insure a fjfe disposal of
th« tickets, has rendered the ihivr- fufpeoOon indifpenlafcla.
SJA, i'.WDGET.
.§. Tickets may be had at the E,u>k as Colsmbia ; of
James Wed & Co. Baltimore; of Fetcr Oilman, BcV.'tor ;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of {tichard TVells*
Cooler's Ferry. ta
PRINTED BY JOHN FEHTP,
■—No. Ix 9 —
CHr S» U T-ST RS£ T.
[Pricc Eight Dollari p. r AnnuM.}