U m s % Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NVmbea 1651.];
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Salt£
For D R r GOSD S.
C Forenoon—Edward Fox, Not ft,
MonJavJ ./ outh Front-lreet,
-^Afternoon —Footman & Co. No;'6s
C South Front-street. v ,
f Forcaoan—John Connelly, Old Cfcv
Tue/diit) Audlion,. No. ti fout'h Frotit-ftreef.
) Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C Migh-ftreet.
Weibiefdav J Afternoon—Peter denfon, No., 74
X south Third-ftrcet.
*?.hurMov 5 Forenoon—Edward Fox.
I Aft-errioon—John Connelly.
Friday X orcnoon —William Shannon..
5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
MarJhaVs Hales,
United States, 7 n"
Pennsylvania Diltrict, J
BY Virtue of vyrits of venditioni exponas, issued
out ot the diftrift court of the T7nited States, aod
«a me [tireifed, will be fold at pifblrc Sale at th'e mer
cl ant'sCotiee-Houle, in Second street, on Wednesday
'he 27th day of December inft. at 6 o'clock in the
earning, all tbjt piece or parcel of meadow ground
situate, lying and being in the townlhipof l'alfyunck,
aud county of Hhilndelpliia, on the roail leading to
Stale IHand Ferry, about fifty.four acres
find ihrre oerchcs, witereon are eredlcd a two ltory
trick Melfuage, cXit houses and • bam ; also one o
tlier Ir.ift or piece of meadow ground, liluate in the
jaid (ownfhip andcQunty, and nearly.oh theodolite
iideol'.helaid toadtothe laidferry,containingfixteena
v C' L 's<Stthrccquarters! alfoamelTaageortetiemcntand Ipt
01 !>iecr. ol grourtd situate on the north fide of High
1 :x 1, betivccn yh and (sth llreets, in the city of P;ii-
I Meipkui, tontainiog In front on High ttied, tUiny
1 hri. kct. and in (ength or depth two hundred feet,
bounced eall by property of rtannah Pemberton,
north by South alley, wed by property of William
bell, aud loutti by High street aforefaid.
Seized and taken in execution as the property of
Henry Seckel, and to be fold by
William Nichols, Marjhal.
| MsrfhaL's Office, 7
December I/, 1?97-J
December rj dtf
Marlhals Sales,
United States, 1 (r
Pennfyivam'a Diftrift. J
BY v.rtueofa Writ of venditioni exponas, iflued
out of the Circuit Court {of the United States,
1 i iuid for the Pennsylvania Diftricft of the Middle '
Circuit, and to me direfled *ill be fold at public •
faie at the Marlbals Office in Race Street No. 117. '
00 Saturday the 30th day cf December inft. at 11
o. clock at noon, two elegant engraved Copper plates 1
ot Shakespeare, one plate of Harmony, BaKolezii,
one plate ofprudence, do. one plate ot meekness, do
one plate, of beauty, do. and one plate of flarvoft
home do—Siized and taken ib execution as the
property of Tiiflram Bampfylde Freeman, and
John Nicho'ifon, Merchants, trading under the firm
"of Freeman and Company 1 , j
And to be fold by -
William Nichols, Marlhal.
iWorftials offrce >
December J dtf
THE SUBSCRIBER,
ONE of tb« late firm of FREEMAN Is* Co,
thinks it a duty he owes to himfelf, to de- -
clare, that he is no wife concerned in the property i
above adveitifcd by the Marlhal!, nor ought he to
b/ fubjedlto the slid action, which will be
ed by the party whose interest it is. V
rijiram Bamfylde Freeman. (
December H dtjoth.
WANTED,
A LARGE PARCEL OE
Scantling and other Lumber,
Suitable for House Building ; ~
Alfoa quantity of Stone & Bricks,
I am »eaiy to enter into contraflt for the a
bove articles—a reasonable time may be allowed
for preparing them ; and calh (hall bepaid either 1,1
i* advance, or upon their delivery, as may be a- '■
greed on.—-Apply to the Subscriber, Houfc-Car- j
jptUtcr, Lombard-llreet, No 1.
"John Crean.
December 10. d t.
(STOLEN R
Out of the fubferiber's office a large blue
clothcloal,half worn. The infidc of the Collar
is faced partly with scarlet velvet and partly
with scarlet cloth, and it has a silver hook
and chain as a faltening. A suitable reward
will be paid for restoring it.
WILLIAM MEREDITH jj
No. hi South 3d Street. S
Dec. Is. dlw b<
NOTICE. b J ( '
THE Stockholders of the Bank of the United
States, are informed th*t according to the _
ilatute of Incorporation a general Election f»r
•twenty five Direilors will be held attheßank
of the United States in die City of Philadelphia,
«n Monday the firfl day of January next at ten
o'clock in the forenoon.
And pursuant to the F.leventh fe&ion of the g;
Laws the Stockholders of the said Bank
arc hereby notified to afiemble in general Meet- g a
■ing at the fame place 011 Tuesday the second p.
day of January next at five o'clock in the E
tvening.
liy order of the Board of dire&ori,
G. SIMPSON, Cashier.
Second fundamental Article.
Not more than three fourths of tne Dire<flor»
in office, exclusive of the President, lhall be e
itgiblefor the next succeeding year, but the
Direilor who Ovall be President at the time of an
Kli-fition nuy always be re-elected.
Philadelphia, nov. 18. 1797. f f E
NOW LANDING,
from on board the ship Farmer, lying at Harper's
Wharf, " j
Claret in hhds, £
Ditto in cases ' *J'
Sauterne Wine in do.
For Sale, apply tx> ®
John 'Whitejide & Co. Mr
No. 13S, S aciet-ftrect.
Also, on hand,
J?ourdeaux Brandy in pipes
Fitie old Antigua Riun
A few cales of Claret, of a superior quality. _J'
• , i;-.-ibsr 39. 5 j
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 23, 1797
I Wanted to Charter,
A Britilh fiftetn hundred
'° j' t ' lou^slDC ' ® ve huu <lre<i bar-
6 ' PP Peter Blizb( %
6 S . WHO HAS F-nR SAL«, *
Port Wine in pipes and hoglheads,
ty and old London Particular Madeira, fit lor iinrne
.j_ diate use,- in pipes.
6. December to § IW
■For Savannah, in Georgia,
4 The Ship ARAB,
Thomas Dwnohue, Maiter,
Ready to fail—Can accommodate a few
For Surinam and Curracoa,
George Wafliington,
Jo nh Devikeux
n *^ llr " Matter,
d For Freight, or apply to
d STEPHEN KINGSTON,
No. 46 Walnut, or 33 DDck-ftrcet,
y Who has A few Roxesof
J Bloom and Muscatel Raisins, and
Gin in Pipes.
3 December tB. *2t
1 For Savannah,
. (To fail on or before Sunday, the 24th inft. unleft
t prsve»t6si by the ice]
>m% . This fu4 failing Ship
' Swift Packet,
P" tr ' c k Gribbeo, Mafler.
, Tf AS excellent aceonunoda
, •= n tions for paflengert.
i ""'"For Freight or paffitje, apply to
N- & y~ Frazier,
c no. 95, south Front ftteet.
Who have for Sale, received by the said Jhip, '
New RICE, in whole and half tierces.
Becemher l 6 dlw 1
Fo-r Amfterdaitt,
J.-i'tt The Ship
JtjAjr FARMER, \
JoniJ M'Cwllom, Mafler; ]
SaswoßKi LL fail in a few day*, the J
#-"»cOr*KsLcsgreater part of her cargo being e
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pas- a
sage, apply to the mailer 00 beard, at Walnut- I
street wharf, or to <i
JOHN SAVAGE. '
Who is Landing, out of the laid Ship, from Bour- '
deauz, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks "
Claret in cases, of a superior quality "
Fsntiniac, 1
Sauterne, > Wind in cases
Lunille, 1 "i
Prunes in boxes J
For Londonderry,
'* • THE bkigantine ;
S u K ET,
WILUAU Wbittl "> Matter.
'.—>*?..£x3fc a ftronggood veflel, about two
hundred tons, *0 fail with all convenient speed, a
Ttreat part of her cargo engaged—now lying at
Willing and Francis's whatf. For freight or paf
fagc, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN, f>
Landenbcrgtt % s vibdrf.
Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel of about three hundred tons.
tunr (8. §
For Sale or Charter,
SmL GOOD HOPE,
\KSjjjt3ifi Will carry Sbout I-ioo barrels, and
i» ready to take in a oat;go. For terms
Pragers & Co.
Ko. ijx, South Second-street. r
Who have forfale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rum, Madeira, Lilbon, and Tcneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf. w
th
For Liverpool, u
y-t The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
Captain Silas Swain.
iSyiSr a Large proportion of her _
4i»Scargo being ready to go on 1
board, is expe&cd to fail on or about Sunday, the
3d of December.
For Freight or FalTage, apply to the Captain on
board, at Walnut-street Wliarf, or to
PHILIP NICKLIN & Co. .
november ax. §
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Chisholm,
A acw vel f el > with excellent
accommodations for palTengers— r
Sails on the loth of December. Fbr Freight or v.
Pa.Tage, apply to ROSS fa" SIMSON. -t
Who have to difpqfe of, \
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS g F
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD. an
novembar 18. § TJ
—T Da
Rundle & Leech,
Have just received, and have for Sale, at no. 9,
Walmit-flreet, tlO
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT ui
Do. best houfo CO .ILS
Queens' WARE in cases, afiorted fel
Bourdeaux BRANDY of an excellent quality dif
Do. CLARET in cases, do. La
THPV HAVE AL!>O by
For SJ LE ar CHARTER, _J
lllib p EGG Y,
Burthen tons, in excellent condition, and Ti
may be sent to sea with little expence or delay. J.
LIKEWISE, RI
the brio Ph
WILLIAM,
Burthea »si tons,
r.i/Vcruber I (a.
By John Fenno, N° xl 9
red For Chnrlefton,
ar- ' THE SHIP
I e N U S,
'/ M.-fn. Pcrotti
"- w! " ,ake Fr on wry
low and fail the «r!t
ds, openmg. Apply to tjie master <Jn board, or to
"" Jos. Anthony 59 s Co.
petcrrrber iS
Frefli Raisins.
'A Small cargo, just arrived, and now landing
J-\. at Chefnut street wharf, f-am the sloop Ya
nco. capt. Halkell, confining of Kegs, Boxes and
J?'/ f<?w Jars of excellent Orapes, and lacks
of-foft (helied Almond# Apply to the Master
etr board, or to
Jos. Anthony Ssf Co.
Hccfmber 19
Philip Nicklin & Co
HAVE fQR SALE,
At their S roms-on Walnut street Wharf,
HavannahSugars, whiteandbrown
2S hhds. Jamaica do.
, 3000 pieces of broad Nankeens
e , r i?' Tea ' in l uartcrs and eighths of thefts
Qunkuiver intirbs
Madeira Wine in pipes and bogflieads
. Teneriffe Wine in pipes
Old tisd Port Wine in hogfheadd
;s e 3 " Ca,lvaf9 ' •forttij. No. Ito 8
8-cafes of Mancheller Goods, consisting of t)ia!ities,
Muflinsts, Ginghams,Thickfctts,Cordn»oys, &c.
aoo crates Queens' Wore, iHorted '
Nails, assorted
Bla i quart Bottles v -I • jju -
. YelloVrn.-T-Jncaft,
A quantity of writing slates, fiatelrk Stands, 3cc.
too quarter calks Gun Powder
lb n Uvc <Hf„ f cr RALE or CHARTER,
TheJhip MOLLY, burthen 340 tons, a
good vessel, and complet«ly fitted.
' The trig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
rel*, may be ready for sea In a few days.
Thr whole of the above vcffels to be seen at
Wa'nut street Wharf. f nm JO.
FOR SALE, at
• Wm. Youns's Bosk Store, ;
No. Second street, the acfler of Chefnut llr^et,
REPORT of the Comni ittee of the House of
Reprefeotatiresol the United States, appoint- ■
ed to prepare and report Articles of Impeachment 1
against WILLI BLOUNT, a Senator of the
United States, impeached of high crimes and mis
demeanors, made in pursuance of a resolution of
the Houft of Representatives, authorizing the said j
Committee to fit during the rcceft of Coogrefs, and c
inftruiling them u to enquire, and, by all lawful t
" means, to difcavcr the whole nature and extent
" of the offence whereof the laid William Blount *
" Hands impeache., and who are the parties aod
" aftotiates therein."
•Printed by Order of the House of Res refenta fives. '
December »o. §
James C. Samtael W. Filher,
AT THE'It «TORlt, '
N0.513, earner of Arch smd Front ftrtets,
HATE FOk SALE,
Cotton and worded HoCery in trunks, assorted -
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto futty romall Handkerchiefs <
Ditto Pullicat (ilk ditto t
Ditto Poudicherry and Madrafs ditto a
Ditto Gurrahs f
Bengal black Taffetiss t
4090 pieces Nankeens, and
Few chctts beil Hyson T«a
Alfu —1500 boxes heft London Window Glass,
from Bby6,to 19 by 14 —tiud 15 Bhds. Glass '
Ware, assorted, which they will dispose of cheap#r
than any in the city.
Landing this diiy, °
pram op board th* schooner Two Friends, Dan-1 a
lei Crawley, Mailer, p
FOR SALE BY p
George Latimer £3* Son.
uonytmher 9. §
James Ss 9 Richard Smith,
TAKE the llbir.y of informing their friends
and the public, that they have retnoVed theit
llore to No. 54, Frontfmt, nest d«or to Ed- _
ward Fox's Auilion Room, where they have at
this time for fale,alarge and general afforsment of
European & Eaji India Goods, cl
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier, "
William Penn, &c. &c.
OA. ty. <5
NOW LANDING,
At South-street Wharf,
The Cargo of the Ship Concord^
Captain Thompson, from Batavia.
About 300 tons firft quali'y Ja»a Coffee .(the
whole having been fele&ed)
80 tons Java Sugar, in canillers and bags
10 legurcs of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
FOR SALE BT
PETER BLIGHT.
Who also offers For Sale,
Just landed from {hip Amity, from Jamaica.
101 hhds. Jamaica Sugar, and
170 do. do. Rum. X
novembrr 21. d6w ' l '
Canal Lottery—No. 11. £
WILL commence drawing Monday, thezoth
inft. Ticket* for Sale in tlxis Lottery, at
Sruen Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery '' c
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South,Second-ftreet —
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lm ter y, at Ten va
Dollars, where check books are kept lor register- 01
ing and examining iwthefe, the City of Walhing- an
ton, No. 11. ants Pateifon LrfttttrteV,' and informa- 111
tiosi where tickets may (ie had in pvuiTof the Lotted
ries authoriUd l»y law in any of the States of the
Union. r' an
N. B. The business «f a Broker, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcountilg Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, 3cc. &c. will be duly attended to, cu
by Wm. BLACKBURN. _
november I.?. §
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT ?ROUD, ch
IS now in the press, and will be publilhed, e( '
with all cowenieat expedition, by Zlcha- £!
RIAH Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubfcripti««i will continue .
to he received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposals, until the 1
work is ready,for tjic fubferiberj.
July 18. ' sawtf fit
Bank of North Aid erica.
THE Stockholders are hcr«by notified, thar aa
election for twelve Dire<stors, for the onfuing 1 year,
Will he held at the Bank on Monday, the &ih o£
,tfj January nrvt, at ten o'clock .
:ry RICHARD WELLS, Cajtifr.
rlt December n. dtjihj
t0 Delaware and Schuylkill CSnal.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
cle&ion for President and Managers, for tfce eafu
ing year, will be held at the compaay's office, on
th< firft Monday in January next, at ioo'clocl^a.m.
WM. MOORE Scc'ry.
,d" _P t,c eri>her u. rowScftiftrJ
its Schuylkill and SufquehannaCanal.
er THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
ele&ion for President and Managers for the ensu
ing year, will be held at the company's office, on
the firft-Monday in January next, at jo o'clock,
M. Dec. 11. mw&Cttftn)[
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
THE-Shareholders are hereby , notified, that an
£lr&ion of Officeri for the eniuing year, will be
held at the Company's office, n0.53, north Fourth
ftrect, on Wednesday, the loth day of January
next, at 11 o'clock.
By order e the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Sp'ry.
December 16 codtiothj
:• Insurance Company of North
America.
THE Stockholders are hereby informed, that a
stated meeting of the Company will be held at .
. their office,on the ninth day of January next (be
ing the second Tucfday in the month) for the Ejec
tion 0/ twenty-five Direitors for the ensuing year.
1 hazard, see'ry.
December 14. th&mt9thj 1
Philadelphia andLancafter'furn- ,
pike Company.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
annual Election for Officers for the ensuing
year,will be held at the Company's Office in Phila
delphia, on the second Monday in January next, at
I 10 o'clock, a. M. Wk. OOVETT, Scc'ry.
December 7. ats m&wt7j
Insurance Company of North
America. , 1
• (
A Meeting of the Stockholders is to be held, a- .
greeably to adjoarnment, at the Company's office,
on the firft Monday in January next, at n o'clock, ,
a. m. EBEN. HAZARD, Scc'ry. 1
Dec«mher 14. th&mtlftj j
Insurance Company
OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA. <
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that au (
Election for thirteen Dire&ors to fcrye for
one year, will be held at th« company's Office, on
Monday, the eighth day of January next, at it"
o'clock. 5
SAM. W. FISHER, Sec'ry. £
December 14 dtßthj
A Fifty Dollar Bank Note, p
Of the Bank of the United States, was loft 011 Sa
turday last, between the Bank of the United States
and the Horse market—lf an hopeft person has
found it, and will leave it w th the Printer hereof;
thfey (hall be handsomely rewarded.
December 11. eojjt '
NOTICE. r
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAFs
and ED\VARD FOX's Engagements
T N confequrnce of many having been prevent-
J-ed, tram late unavoidable circumftance9 from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former ,
notice. The Trustees now inform them, they i>
are ready to iflue the iiiiie to tlu>fe who may ap- o
ply within sixty fliy*, at No. g Chefnut Street, h
asd those who do oot, will be confidercd as re- ®
linquilhing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THCMAS W. FRANCIS,
JOHN MILLER. JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOP BAKER.
December Ij. dftct
WANTS A PLACE,
As coachman, a black Man, who can produce
the best recommendations. EnquirS of the prin
ter. Dec. 16—d.it
For Sale by the Subscribers, (
Prime Rice in whole and balf tiercfi
Bout deaux Brandy /
Teneriffe Wine *
Molajfcs A
Georgia and Carolina Indigo *-
Ravens Duck and one hogjhtad'of pa'nt li
brujhes.
N. Cs* J. Frazer.
J cc
N*. 95, Santb Front Street. p
Nov. 7. dim.
MUSIC.
J. L. LENZ, --
R Teacher ot Vocal and inflrumental Music,
ETURNS hiifincere thaaksto the Ladies and
» Gentlemen, from whom he received a very
liberal encouragement Once his residence in this ci
ty, and reipe&fully informs his friends and the pub
lic generally, that, in confluence of the requ<?ft
of some of his friends, he has opened a Musical
School al his house in Spruce Street No 174, where
he will teach or the Piano forte, Violin &c. scc.
He deenas it uniieceflary to enlarge upon the ad
' vantages the learner will derive from an inftituti
on of this kind; he will only fay, that attention
arid zea-l are much excited in an aff&mbly, where
numbers are in pursuit of the fame objed. His
arrangement is such, that an interference of the
the different sexes will be avoided. Those Ladies
and Gentlemen who cannot make it convenient to y
attend at his Tchool, he will wait upon at their
houses.—Applications will be thankfully receiv
ed at hit house, where his teriiis and further parti
culars may be known.
Dec. 7. *iweod *
Alphabetical Lift of Duties, ai;
Payable by law on all Goods, Wares, and Mer- co
chandize, imported into the United States—-latest
edition, to be ibid by JOHN ORMROD, 110. 41, X.
Ch.fnut Preet. Par. >6 —d
TO BE SOLD, H
Or Exchanged for Property in the Gauntry, an
That three story Brick House,
No. J57, north Third liruet. Apply at the ef
-1 ficc of this Gazette. i!OT. i)- w&s.(w
A House in Burlington for Sale.
aa sHE fuhfcriber his a large, convenient t»o«
ir '. ■* , I*l blick House, with Subltt,
ft houie, and a well improved Garden, ia the City
ot Turlington, New-Jersey, whicb be wiflaes tji
SELL. For ternisapply at No. 5, Soutlv tfV>Ui *J*
_ ftrecs, to GEORGE WALKtii,
1, Who has aljo for Sale,
i e Lots ia Washington Citv,
»- Contiguous to the Capitol and to the principal
>" harbour. ' r v
'■ December 21. », r
clerkship:
AJTOUNG MAN, who could bring indispu
table recommendations is defirousto be cm
c P'»yed in the capacity i.' copying Clerk, at a public
i- oflice—Ho would engage (in moderate terms.—,
n F«r further particulars enquire at the office of t
L > Ga l«" e - § Decig
FOH X4L£, '
By JOHN MILLER, jun. & Co.
No. 8, CfaYnul-fUeet,
One hundred and eighty hales
; bengal goods,
1 Amorigic which art,
GlWJohs "" Mamoodies
Eaftas Sannas
Gusz nahs Tauda'Coffaes
Guzzira Emetic#
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palanipqcrr tfomail Handfceiekcfs
Amougft -them are a gireat proportion vl th»
manufa"ure« of I'ttiy,
x,. 1 1 ■ - <■
Ail Perlons
Having any demands agamft the Estate of the
Ute Captain George Irwin, are requtltcd to
bring in their accounts pioperly attested, on or
jt r c ' ay °* jjanuary next tnfuing
and those who arc indebted to fa id estate arc so
licited to make immediate payment to
oAKAII IRWIN, AdmiuiOratrix. 4
noT. ?o 1797.
JUST RECEIVER
(via New-York)
AND NOW OPENING, BT
George Dobson,'
No i 5, f.uth Third Greet,
An extensive and general aflortment of
HABERDASHERY, viz.
Bed London miat Pin. Galloons and Ferret.
Common do do. Worsted Bindings, aflbr.
Makenzle efuyej-,patent ted colours
white chapel Needles Imperial, diaper, and
Nuns Thread no. 6to Thread Tapes
40, regularly assorted White Edgings
Lisle do. no. X3O to 500, Blaak and coloured Chi.
regularly assorted nefe Ribbands
Coloured do. Sattin and figured do.
Black sewing Silks Black Velvet, I -4 to 1 id
Coloured do. and Twist Velvet & pclon Sattiw
bilk and cotton Wires French Cambric 1;
Do. d«. Ribbands Scotch do.
/lain gilt and plated
Black brujh Feathers Buttons
And a compleat aflortment of O«ods, fuitabl*
to the prelent and approaching season, at reduced
P"""' Doc. 6. <3tf
THE PARTHESLSHIP OF
Richard James Potter,
IS this day dissolved, by mutual consent. All
perlons indebted to the said firm, are requested
to pay the fame to either of the fubferjbers; afld
ail pcrfons having any demands against them, ar»
requeued to fend their accounts for fcttlement.
Richard Potter,
James Potter, 1
December 9.
The Subscriber intends to make
application lor the renewal of a Certificate «fa Share
in the Bank of the United States, (landingin ihc nam*
oM.B. N0.4004, dated July ti, 1797, the fanj«
havmg been lofl. JOHN' GR iHrtM.
Kichmond, Dec. I.
ROSS Ssf SIMSON, ™
HAVK FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COT! ON
Bengal SUGAR, in tags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincent?, C RUM,
and Bengal J
300 calks RICE, ind
A parcel of fh:p building RED CEDAR,
OA- *7- t
Chocolate and Mustard,
nf a superior quality manufaflured,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; fliellrd or
pearl Bjrley ; Philadelphia Porter, Bee,
A'e and Cyder ; Taupton and Burton Ale ;
London Porter ; red, Port and Lisbon Wine,
Itiitalfle for exportation or home cohfumption.
The highelt pi ict given for Mu/I»rd-Seed.
Aljo for fate, A quantity of Bocking an 4
common Baize% a variety of colors j a bale of
Fustians, Shawls, &e, for sale by
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, south Front-street.
*<n>- *y- m &th.t.ij.
Imported (via New York) on tha
ship Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and (or
sale by the fubferiber, at No. 61, Chefnut flreet,
between Second and Third Streets, thq follow,
ing articles .
Maharagonges Charconna Dorens
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca wyAed muiJtHi
Gillis Romals Bandannoes
Nil las & Penfiafoes Chafla Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
MyllMullhankerdiiefs Peiempores
Patna do. Baoares Opiunj
Lefler Cardimuui Seeds,
Samuel Wilcox,
november 17 , tuth^w
To Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter in tbs City,
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114, corner
rf Sixth and Race Streets. The fixation
vicinity has been free from the l„t S
contigion. oa. 11.—dtf
BY virtue of an order of the Orphan's Court,
will be expofrd to Sale, on the i6th current,
at 9 o'clock, a. u. at the prcmifes, a imalHraniit
House and Lot, situated 011 the corner of Spryce
and Eighth flreets, fubji-it to an anatial ground
rent of fifteen pnynds, late the property of An,
thony Lcbeck, decease l.
JWARGARI 1 I.tBECK, lidn'.iiijlrdttix,
.p;r.'nib« |i.
[Volume XII.CONGR ESS. lat th
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. The
_ this!
VTEDNSSDAY, CECEMBtR 20. ftsnt
Continuation of the Debate on Foreign Coin, arise
Mr. Sewall laid, the reafoningi, of fo*ie altea
gentlemen upon this fubjeft were so differ- the
ent from h:6, that he was almost led to doubt - cula
the conviction of hisVjwn mind. The gen- Frei
tleman from Maryland had referred to what sit a
he had said on a former oecafion refpsfting tor t
fotir pfdoles pieces, andofefsrved that a few had
small fifiling vessels might carry on their, rece
trace in the way mentioned, but that mer- ford
chants in larger concerns did not. It was ave
true, the fa&hc alluded to, was the way in thoi
which ve furls which went with fi(h from the it. v
port frorruwhich he came did their bufip.efs the
at Biiboa. The gentleman said the btifinefs far 1
could be better done in London. He cer- gen
tain!-/ mult have been ignorant of the Tub- plae
jeft,orhe mull have known that in the pre- woi
lent state of warfare among the European dep
powers, that remittances from Biiboa to wer
London, could not now be made, and when wer
they were made it was at a loss of from 15 mg
to 25 percent. He believed the dollar of not
Spj'n wr.s worth 4od. fterliftg, but it had was
bten dov/n as low as zßd. and was mostly flor
about 3?d. whereas the loss fuftainedon the sou
importation of gold was less than 5 per cent, tnei
{o that it was much better to receive gold, refi
tUah .irinke remittances from Spain to Lpn- red!
ion. Sometimes, however, the traders a- wer
gres to lo'fe from 15 to 25 per cent, by Fre
dfavung oa London, when they have an ar- the
tide which will afford an extraordinary pro- inc<
fit. Taking the fubjett at large, he did infi
aot think so many difficulties would attend the
the filtering of the law to take effeft as had i was
been predicted. At present, he said, we tee
gave p fanft'on to foreign coin which was ]
,r«jt given in any other country. The efflef- f{ j
.wn'was not whether thsy (hould lay so-
reign coin ihouhlnot be received at all, but p 0 (
whether, by our law, a man (hall be obliged [ IC
to receive it, which would be giving full his
credit to the coin of a foreign government, wa
over which we have tio controul, and which |, ee
■ may, of eourfe, contain more alloy than it t h c
ought. 'At present, he said, our colleftprs g UI
received French crowns, banks would do w h
the fame. Gentlemen said this (hewed the ent
incxpedieney of disputing about the matter ; j, e
and if there would be no inconvenience at- co j
" tending the law going into effeft, it would
certainly be more honourable to government, ; t |
that our citizens (hould not be forced to re- H
ceive foreign coin in payment. If the bu- co
frnefs were left in the way the executive had ,jp
put it, the foreign coin, without producing t i„
any inconvenience, would take its eourfe t j t
toward* the bank of the United States ; t j,
for money did not need to be hauled a- d c
lung, it flowed like water through the coun- no
try. Gentlemen had said that copper circu- d c
lated in a direst eontradifton to the law ; ta |
and so far as it was tie'ccflary, the foreign f a]
. eqin in qutftion would have a currency ; hut j, a
it was no* necefTary T6 forte them into pay- j, e
ment. He believed the new coin of the a
' Ertnch republic contained more aUoy and c 0
wasof less value, than those of the monar- cu
c hv yet gentlemen would have all receiv- e( j
ed. He hop«d the motion would be agreed
■to, ss he saw no good in poftponiug the bu- if
fine'fs for two years. _ ra
Mr. Nicholas said, tfhe observations on ft;
this fubjefthad generallyadmitted that there re
would be a less attendant on the calling in p,
of the foreign coin in queflion ; but the p,
■gentleman last up had endeavoured to prove p;
that it was the intention of gentlemen in oc
favour of suspending the aft, to force so- w
teign coin to be received. It was aftonilh- ar
ipg the gentleman could so far impose upon cc
himfelf as to believe it poflible to impose b;
such sn opinion upon the house. The laws ar
had heretofore said they (hould be received ; at
they did not wi(h to add to them. He be-
lievtd they were not now to decide whether bi
the-v would have our own impreflion upon t
all the money in circulation, but whether u ]
they (hould be jollified in taking money out f e
of the hands of citizens at a less value than
that for which they received it. They had
been told that the suspension of this art
■wdu'.d be an intrcnchment upon the mint .
law ; that it would strike at the exigence t(
*f the mint; and that if the bulinefs were
postponed, the fame objeftion would arise
at the end of the time to which the law was
suspended. The crisis now arrived, he said,
was never in view when the law pafled ; the ,
mint law had not been carried into effeft ; '
it directed that all fortign coin which came
into tlve treasury, (liould be sent to the mint
and re-coineS. What would have been the
confeguence of this ? If it were ever possi
ble to fill the country with our own coin, it P
would now have been filled. But, instead
of this law being complied with, not a (hil
ling had been sent to the mint from the F
treasury. The confcquence was,' a coin of
the United States could not be seen, at leaf! *
in the interior of the country. He averred,
lie never did fee an eagle pass in any current ,
Commercial tranfafticn. He believed it im-
poflible to keep a circulation of this kind
for any length of time ; for the balance of j
foreign trade being against us, it must go to
pay that balance. Mr. N. said, be had at- (
tetlded to the report which they had reeeiv
ed on this fubjeft, and to the observations :
of the gentleman from Pennsylvania that it \
ought to produce a different result in the ; ,
committee. He had nothing but the gen i
tic-man's word for it. So far as he could ;
understand the report, he did not find the j
mint operative, or able to do the work
wh-'-sh gentlemen wiflied to give it ; that it .
had done last year less than ever, and if it j
gets the 300,090 dollars which are expeft
■ ed, upon the highest calculation of what it
can do sand not what it has done) it
will require seventeen weeks to re coin
them. What would be the effeft, then, if
all the foreign coin were to come in ? The
banks would, of eourfe, have the preference,
and the other must wait until the mint was
ready to receive it, without benefit to the |
owners. Was this reaftnable ? And wer?.
.gentlemen 'to be indulged ji» iVeW.phy-ti.ung4 from
at this expeace of the ptople ? Mr. N. said, j ed t!
gentlemen forced the mint into discussion. I beca
They fay it is nece(Wy,?pr Its existence that ed u
this law (lioiild be in ftirce. They were con He
fiantly told that all the mifehief which could as it
arise from the floppage of the filvercoin had opin
already taken place. His knowledge was coin
the rtverfe. When he left home, the cir- filve
-culaticn had flopped, "but persons holding pini
French crowns, declined parting with them the
at a loss, belying on fume thing beiug done aafv
for their relief. As to what the Executive wha
had done in ordering French crowns to be latii
received in the cuflom-houfes, it vyoifld as- had
ford adequate remedy. It perhaps was cire
a very properftep for the Executive to take/ coir
thoogh hedid not know by what authority tion
it. was done ; yet gentlemen wished to have fuft
the sole regulation of the bulinefs. He was he 1
far from bring of this opinion. But, fay It 1
gentlemen, if this suspension were t« take any
place for two years, the fame inconvenience as 1
would return. This, Mr. N. said, would tha
depend upon circumstances. If gentlemen was
were determined to support the mint, there mai
were other ways of doing it, without tax-] poi
ing any particular part of the people ; if mo
not, it might be put- down altogether It Tli
was not tied about their neck, like a to '
(lone to fink them. He trusted, if |t were the
found an ofcl<f» and unprofitable establish- I is t
ment, th tit would be relinqui(hcd. One Di
refu't, Mr. N. said, he drew from the di- red
rector's report, which was, that wkilft there I ror
were to the amount of, 300,000 dollars in fro
French crowns in this city and New-York, pr<
the quantity in circulation could not be so I It
inconsiderable as fonie gentlemtn seemed to lio
insinuate. It confirmed his opinion that Iwc
the amount throughout the United States I th;
. was p serious one. He hoped the commit- val
tee would not rife for the purpose proposed. I fib
? Mr. Ve.iable said, it would be remember-1
ed that' the gentlernan from Pennsylvania J 1
(Mr. was on a former day op- j
posed tothe report of th« committee, though I
he now wished to favour it, notwithftandiwg
his arguments were against it. He himfelf J
was one of the committee, and (hould have j
been fatisfied with the report. Mr. V. tho't r<
the gentleman had used a curious fort of ar- j
guraeut. He had said he had no data upon j
which to calculate what would be a fuifici- .
ent circulating medium for this country, yet L
1 he was certain there must be now fufficient
coin to prevent any inconvenience from the
(loppage of foreign coin. He did not think et
1 it fafe to aft upon such arguments as these.
He said he was not much acquainted with
commerce, but some gentlemen had gone ec
' upon ideas which were very different from
! those imprefTed upon his mind. The gen-1 '
: tlemari from Massachusetts had said, that w
> the only way to support the Mint was to a
• depreciate the foreign coin ; but this could c
not last long, for if it were depreciated, that
" depreciation would put a stop to its impor- 1
> tation. Before he saw the report, Mr. V. 1 c
1 said, he fuppnfed the operations of the Mint i
1 had been greater than they proved to be j
" he was now fatisfied nothing would do, but
L ' a suspension of the law relative to foreign
* coin, as the mint could not supply the cir-1
~ cuUlion, In three years the Mint had coin-1
" ed 700,000 dollars. They were now indeed
' promised 300,000 dollars from the banks, j
" If therefore, the Mint encreafed in its ope-1
rations, the country would be in a better I
" state for dispensing with thecireulation of fo-1
e reign coin two years hence than it was at I
n present. Had the Mint answered the ex- I.'
e peftations formed of it when the Mint law 1
e pafled, there would Dot now have been any I P
n occasion for the proposed suspension. It j
was said, that as the officers of the customs
and the banks received French crowns, theie 1 t
f 1 could not be much loss upon them; but the j
c banks receiving them was a voluntary aft, I
'* andthey might depreciateor appreciate them .
> at their own pleafare. This was not the
the situation in which the country ought to I
;r be with refpeft to its circulating medium.
n The people wi(hed to have the bulinefs reg- F
;r ulated by law, that they might have I r
lt some certainty in (their money tranfafti-
n ons.
Mr. S. Smith said, the gentleman from ,
|t Maflachufettshad chargedhimwith ignorance (
in the obfervajions he had made with refpeft (
C to the mode of tranfafting business between 1
j- this country and Biiboa ; and though he ,
was ready confefs, he might, in some refpefts ,
j be deemed ignorant on many fubjefts which j
' came before that house, yet he did not j
think the term applicable on the present oc- ,
' cafion. The gentleman had aflerted that (
that there was no way of importing coin
1 from that country but by smuggling ; but ,
the true way of importing coin was to
j' pay eight per cent for the danger, five per
cent premium, and to sustain a further loss ,
j] of five per cent making in the whole eighteen
per cent. The gentleman had stated, that
at present it was impossible to make remitt-
ances by way of London, and that when
j they were made, they were attended with
' a charge of from fifteen to twenty per cent.
" The gentleman had also stated the Spanish |
"j dollar to be as low as 38 but this was j
owing to a paper curreney in Spain which
( had reduced the price'from 4$ to 28. The
° extent of loss, at this time, of remittances
of that kind was from 10 to 12-4 per cent.
1T " And so far from the gentleman being correft
' n!> in faying that no remittances could at this
l' 1 " time be made, it was the common eourfe of
16 : business; as, though it could not be made
?, direft'y to London, it was done through
. ' Hamburgh, in tLo fame way as remittances
£ '.from Holland to London, were made thro'
>r - 1 Bremen. With refpeft to th? report before
'r • t ! them, the direftor said they could coin from
' l \lB to 20,000 dollars per week. Let us fee,
C ." said he, what has been done. The last de-
C '. posit was 29, COO dollars from the bank of
• lt North America, made three weeks ago, and
yet it was not finilhed. This varies from
the report of the direftor. Supposing, how
-12 ever,that mint was capable cf coining I SjOCO
CC ' dollars a week, it would take a year and a
the luar1 uar ' < - r to coin a million cf dollars,
Mr. Sitgreaves said, that the genden-an
from Virginui (Mr. Nicl»6laa) had mGi»ti&t T the
ed thai his motion aUgtft ?>«< to be carried, but
because liejwas on a former oreafion, oppof- of <
ed to the report, though rlovv in favour of it. the
He did not oppefe it altogether, but only Mr,
as it related to gold coin; he then tryed the bee
opinion of the committee with refpeft togold pro
coin,,lie wilhed now to try it with refpeft to far)
silver, and fee whether they were not of o- fort
pinion that the measures recommended by but
the Executive, would not prove fuffieient to woi
aufwer every pnrpofe. He- hadalfo noticed lag
what he had said with tefptfft to the circu
lating medium of t lie GM#Wf .*» lit cause h« in (
had said he'did jjf|he n«
crrcnlatihg rrridiutnVyet tffotti the .ajiioyßt fa"
coined, and "ttljj dollars and
tion, he bttlievfled'no inconvenience could be ad
sustained frerth the Itoppsgvof French fti-ovvna
he had called it an extraordinary argument, cal
I It was not one of those things upou which tio
i any certainty could behad. He might with
as much propriety fay it was fuflkient, as
that gentleman thould fay the contrary. It ga
was their opinion. But the gentleman re- po
marked, that the film now ready to be de- -of
I pofitcd in 'he Mint, was nearly half the a- ly
mount of what had hitherto been coined. fh<
This wa3 a faft, Mr. S. said, which ought an
to be a firong inducement with them to take in<
the -course he advocated; for, said he, what of
is the reason so little has hitherto beea.done? th
Did it not appear from the report of the di- th
reftor of the Mint, that it was owing to er- pi'
rors in the law wliich prevented deposits B
I from being made? And had not these re- cc
prefeMations been uniform'y disregarded ? w
It had, therefore, been for the want of bul- pe
lion alone, that the Mint had not done more M
I work. The former direftor had told them m
; that the Mint was equal to the coining the 01
. value of three millions.of dollars of gold and ac
silver coin in a year; the prefeut director told ci
I them from 18 to. 2C,000 dollars, a week in tl:
( J silver, urhich wjas a a year, hi
j and gold in Henpe it was clear gi
that the capacity of the Mint was equal to ct
the issuing of three millions a year. So that d<
M it was not incapacity, but error, which pre
„ I vented a fufficiency of coin from coming p
t from the Mint. The aft for flopping so- vv
reign coin had already, in force degree, as
they learat from the report before them,
I correftedthe error. G entleraen had suggest- I
~ ed another mode offupportiug the mint by C
t appropriation. He had heard nobody deny C
that this would nat be proper : but he wish- n
ed the law to remain in aid of any appropri- I
, ation which might he made. Mr. &. con- r
eluded with remarking, that he had eiiquir- I
ed of one of the bank directors, the reason r
why so great a proportion of gold coin had I
been sent to the miut, and he told him it I
was owisg to the gold's being in Co mutilated 1
' C a state that they could not put it off to their '
. customers.
Mr. Gallatin said, after what had fallen
lt from the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Ni. 1
\ I cholas) he djil not expeft to have heard the
' I arguments made use of by his colleague ;
U I afterithad t>een stated tfcat the law ps I 793,
i( ' whicli required the Secretary of the Trea- 1
I fury to f»nd to the mint all the foreign coin I
II I which came into his hand, had not been 1
r " I complied with, he was aftoniftied he should
talk to them of the errors of the system as to 1
I deposits. It was said there were good rea-
S " I fon»-for this breach of the law ; he did not
e ~ doubt this, because they knew the law had
I not been carried into effeft. The reason
J ~ I why it had not, was not now under difcuf
at fion ; but let it not be faidthat it was ow
*" ing to a great part of the revenue being
N I paid in paptr, because it was known that
J I cafti was always demgndable for that paper.
I He did not mean to thiow blame upon the
" S department, in thebufinefs,any farther than
this, that as it was their duty to carry the
laws into effeft, when they found it incon
' ' venient to do so, they ought to state the
inconvenience, in order that the law might
that no appropriation had been made for the
purchase of bullion : there would have been
® no necessity for this, had the law been car
*. C ried into effeft, as'all m9neyin the treafu
-1 ry for ; tjie purgofc, by the
law direftingiit to be re coined. The gen
'm tleman from Massachusetts (Mr. Sewall)
tce complained that the law making foreign
:ft coin legal tender forced the people of the
611 United States to receive aforeigncoin which
h e might not be of fufficieut purity, and upon
which they might fuffer a loss. Mr. G.
said the gentleman was mistaken as to the
lot faft, as no loss cf this kind could be fuftain
3C" ed, uutil the President issued a proclama
lat tion declaring that a certain coin was of less
J ' n Value than it ought to be. The prefeut
> ut question was not, as that gentleman had fta
to ted it, whether they should give currency
P er to foreign coin or not ; but it was whether
ofs t h e y should take foreign coin out of circula
;en tion before they got their own into circula
rs' tion. The law consisted of two parts ; the
' u * one was direfting thatall money which cam£
ien into the treasury should be re-rcoined ; the
ith o ther, that at a certain period foreign coin
nt - should be called out of circulation : but the
ifh j fi r ftpart not having been carried into effeft,
yas > jt wal highly reasonable the operation of the
j c 'h secOnd should be suspended. Mr. G. did
he not think thr'report of the director of the
cc » mint made any change in the question. If
' nt - a r,y inferenceopuld b« drawn ( fjfom it, it
was, that tht bants having f«Pt in a confi
this fidcrablequa(irity«f' foreign coin to be re
; G ' r coined, they may probably continue to do so
ade though the aft be suspended. Wi»h ref
igh p C( c\ to the depofitspremifedfrom the banks
ices 0 f New-York and this city,he did not think
iro ' they were of any consequence in this bufi
forc ness, as they did not affedt the main argu
rPm ment,—He said it would be the interest of
the holders of French crowns to take them
e " to tile mint, or n<»t ; iJ it were theit inter
-1 of eft, they would do it without any legitimate
<>nd force (as his colleague had termed it) : if
rom not, they ought not to do it <it a loss. He
ow " should, therefore, vote against the commit
oco tee's riGng for the puipofe mentioned.
lcJ a Mr. Sewall thought it incumbent upon
him, before the question was taken, to state,
a-.an that he did not apply the term ignorance to
r the gentleman from Maryland, generally, ' tlis
, but merely as to the particular circurtiftance Uni
- of which he spoke, nor should he have used to o
. the phrase if another had occurred to him. Trc
f Mr. S. also took some notice of what had mat
e been said by Mr. Gallatin refpe&ing the tion
d proclamation of the Prelident, being neeef- fl* i
o fary, before any loss could be sustained by this
foreign coin containing too much alloy ; of
y but a proclamation of this kind, he said, wis
0 would occanon ai great difficulty, as fuffer- j '
d ing the law in question to continue in effeft. ted
1- The qisejtion for the committee's rfiing, 1 wh:
.« in Pi-der to re-cominit the bill, was put and j mei
le negatived, there being only votes in its tbe
it. favor. *•_' ■
j- The question was then earned without hpj
>e a division for rifmg and reporting the bill, i'' <}ia
ai Tliehoufeliaving resumed, Mr» Sitgreaves thi
t. called for the yeas aud nays on the qusf- ext
;h tion of the bill's going to a third reading, by
ih —Agreed.] vcc
as Mr- Champlin said he intended to vote a- Ijis
It gainst this bill, and as several gentlemen op- mil
'o posed to it had taken very different grounds die:
le- -of opposition, he rofc, with a view of mere- Tl
a- ly dating the grounds, upon which he his
d. should give his v»te. HcVas as sensible as do;
ht any member of the house, of the evils and j on*
ke inconveniences resulting from a certain part |as
iat of the aft relative to the Mint. An iif cal
ie? they could not be remedied in any other way thi
di- than the one contemplated by the bill now ftic
er- proposed, he should certainly assent to it. his
Its But he was convinced, that the provision
re- contained in this bill, to remedy those evils |be
d ? was both improperand unneceffary—lmpro- bii
ul- per, as it would operate to the ruin of the m:
jre Mint; and unnecessary, as the feleft com- qu
em mittee, to whom this fubjeft was referred, te
the originally reported a proposition which, if in
ind adopted, would pu' an end to all the diffi- ta
old culties, eonfequent upon the operation of
in the aft in question, as it now flood. He !le
:ar, hoped therefore, that the bill would be ne- 1 w
ear gatived, and the original report of the feleft G
to committee would be again resorted to ami's- ar
hat dopted. T
ire- The question being put upon the bill's
ing palling to a third reading, the Yeas and Nays m
so- were taken as follow :
as YEAS. w
em, Meffrv. Baldwin, Baird, Blount, Brent, b
eft- Bryan, Bullock, Burgess, Chapman, T. fc
by Claiborne, W. Claiborne, Clay, Clopton, ft
eay Cochran, Coit, Davis, Dawfon, Dent, Ed- v
ifh- mond, Elmendorph, Evans, Findley, J. 1:
pri- Frpeman, Gallatin,Gillefpie, Gregg, G«od- e
:on- rich, Grifwold, Grave, Havma, Harper, li
uir- Harrifon, Havens, Heifter, Holmes, Host
ifon mer, Jones, Kittera, Livingfton, Locke, r
had Lyman, Machir, Macon, M'Clenachan, f
11 it M' Dowell, Morgan, New, Nicholas, J. a
ited Parker, Pinckney, Reed, Rutledge, Shep- r
heir ard, Skinner, S. Smith,W.Smith, Sprague, j
Sprigg, Stanford, Sumpter, Swanwick, 1
Hen Tillinghaft, A. Trigg, J. Trigg, Van j
Ni. Cottlandt, Varnum, Venable, J. Williams, «
1 the R. Williams—6B. 1
ue ; NAYS. i
(93, Messrs. Baer, Bartlett, Brookes, Champ- |
'rea- lin, Craik, Dennis, A.- Foster, D. Fof« \
coin ter, Glen, Gordon, Hindman, Imlay, Mat- 1
jeen thews, Morris, Otis, I. Parker, Sewall, i
ould Sianickfon, Sitgreaves, N. Smith, Thatch- 1
isto er, Thomas, Thompson, Van Alen, Wads- 1
rea- worth— 25.
not The bill v.-as accordingly ordered to be 1
had engrofftd for a third reading to-morrow. 1
afon Mr. Pinckney, from the committee to
fcuf- whom was referred the petition and remon- !
ow- ftrance of the Legislature of the State of
eing Tennessee, made a report, recommending
that that a fom of money (liould be granted by
iper. Congress, and placed in tha hands of the
1 the President of the United States, for the re
than lief of such citizens of Tennessee as have
r the titles to land, by virtue of the ceTioa aft of
icon- North Carolina, and who have been depri
the ved of them by the carrying into effeft the
light late treaty with the Indians, to be employ
d of ed in extinguishing the Indian cla m or in
r the such manner as the President of the Un;ted
been States shall think proper, for the relief of
car- the said citizens.
eafu- The report was twice read, and comuit
y the ted for Monday.
gen- Mr' D- Fofttr-moved that the report of
■vall) the committee of claims, on the petition of
reign Comfort Sahds and others, and a leport
f the of the Secretary of the Treasury thereon,
rhich be referred to a committee of the whele—
upon Agreed and made the order for Friday .
Q_ Adjourned.
» the CjT The petition of the Marshal of Vir-
Hain- ginia, presented yeftercfay, did not eom
lama- plain of the infufficiency of gaols in Vir
f less ginia generally, but that of Petersburg in
efent particular,
d fta-
■ enC y I»RIDAY DECEMBER 22.
ether Mr. Dawfon wilhed to call the attention
cula- of the House to a fubjeft which, he doubt
-cula- ed not, would interest the feelings of every
; the member—The fubjeft alluded to was the
came situation of General Kofciufko. It was a
; the faft well known to every man in this coun
coiu try; it was a faft known to the world, that
it the this brave man entered into the service of
:ffeft, the United States, at an early period of
of the our revolutionary war. When this ft rvice
. did was ended, he received from the gsvern
>f the ment a certificate of what was due to hiin.
i. If He returned to Poland, his native country ;
it, it there, animated by the fame
confi- had led him to take a part in our struggle
Je re- for independence, he endeavored to over
do so throw the existing tyranny, and to intro
h res- duCe in its place liberty and independence,
banks For some time bis attempt seemed likely to
think be ctowned with success ; but, 011 the fatal
i bufi- 10th of Oftober, 1794, overpowered by
argti- numbers, he was defeated and taken pri
reft of foner,' covered with wounds and wish gh>-
them ry, he was condufted to the prison of Pe
inter- terfburg. When he was released from
itimate thence, he immediately set out for this
t) : if country, here to spend the remainder of his
He life. He was now within this city; but,
mmit- from the wounds he had received in his ar
duous but unfuccefkful confllft, he was una
upon ble to walk, or to attend to any business.
> state, On the unfortunate day-on which he was
ance to tsken prisoner, hs loft his all, and with it
, ' the certificate of the ferviee* to tis
e United States. He was uuab! « therefore, v
el to obtain a settlement as his account at the
i. ' Trcafury. To set a fide all difficulty in the
d matter, Mr. D. proposed to offer a refolu
n: tion to the consideration of the House; and
f- tts it was justice-only which he fought far
y this brave man, he doubted iiot that a spirit
; of jultic; would infur.e its adoption. It
i, was to the following, effect,
r- | « Refolvsrd, that a committee be appoin
t. ted to enquire and report whether if any,
5, | what provisions are necessary, to obtain pay
id j ment of the*laim of General Kofciufko oh
ts tiie United States."
j Mr. J. Parker seconded the motion. He
ut bpptd thi resolution would t"e agreed to, and
<i" <hat immediate attention would be piid to
es this unfortunate Gentleman, as he believed,
:f- except he made use of the grant madeto him
g. by the Emperor of Rufiia, which he belie
ved he was disinclined to do, for considering
a- Ijis predeccffor as the chief cause of bis own
p- misfortunes, and those of his country, he
ds i did not wish to be under obligations to him,
e- Thp certificate given to the General, on v
he his departure from hence, was for 12,800
as dollars, upon which he had only received
nd : one years interest. He hoped, therefore
irt | as he had the misfortune to lose his certifi
if cate, at the time he was taken prisoner, that
ay the House wonla take such measures as
jw (hould enable him to receive the amount of
it. his certificate, with the interest due therfeon.
on Mr. Coit moved that the resolution (hould
rils | be committed to the Committee of Claims,
ru- but afterwards changed his motion so as to
:he make that committee the committee to en
m- quire and report, ioftjtrad of a Selefit commit
ed, tee. He proposed to have no other objeft
if in these motions,than that this claim (hould
Jfi- take the fame course with other claims. ■«
los The motion was supported by Meflrs.
H.- ! len, J. Williams, Macon, and Edmond. It
ne- 1 was opposed by Mess. J. Parker, Livingfton
Gallatin, Brookes, Nicholas, Harper, Sliep
ard, Pinckney, Otis, Swanwick, t>. Smith,
T. Claiborne, and M'Dowell.
ill's The- motion for a reference to the eom
ays mittee of claims wasloft.—s9 jto 33.
Mr. Pinckney said, that as this claim
was different from most others which caxrie
?nt, before that house, and having bfmfelf had
T.' something to do in the business, he would
on, state te the house what he knew of ii.
Ed- vious to general Kofkiufko's return to Po
, J. land, whilst he was in Germany, he appli
ed- ed to the Poli(h ambassador ia London, .by
per, letter, requesting him to make application
los- to the American minister there, for pay
:ke, ment of a part of the money due to him
lan, from the United States. The made of tranf
, J. afting this business was this, Mr. P. said.
hep- The interest arising from the certificate
gue, granted to the general was made payable in
ick, Paris ; but from the change which took
Van place in the French gov*rnment, the gen
jms, eral did not know how to receive it there,
which was the reason of his making applica
tion, through the Polish minister, to . him,
imp. (Mr. Pinckney) in London. Mr. P. wrote
Fof* to the ' American minister at Paris, for an
Vfst- p»der on the bankers of the United States
.vail, in Holhnd, but having, in the mean time,
itch- received a letter from general KofkiuJko, re
radf- .quelling the money to be for him to
RatiJbon or Leipfic, he (Mr P.) sent an
3 be order to Amsterdam, requesting the banker
v. there to transmit the money either to* Rwt
:e to ilbon or Leipfic, as the exchange (hould
non- be moll advantageous. In the interim, ge
:e of neral Koikiulko returned trt Poland, and he
ding supposed, he then had no time to attehd to
I by thri business. He never heard aay more
f the upon the fubjed until he saw the general iu
e re- Philadelphia, when he found this money
have had not been received hy him, so that he
ft of supposed it yet lay in the hands of the Leip
epri- sic or Ratifbon banker. Finding this, to be
t the the cafe, Mr. P. immediately wrote to the
j!oy- banker at Amsterdam, requesting him to re
>r in draw the money, and to transmit it here for
nited the general's use. But, as he might, in
:f of the mean time, stand irt need of it, it might
be.proper in the United States to anticipate
1 nit- its return, by fettling the account with the
general. He hoped in whatever way this
rt of business was effedted, it would be in such a
on of way as not to wound the feelings of a man
rport who had deserved so well of this country,
reon, On a suggestion of Mr. Sitgreaves, in
le.— stead of appointing a committee, the secre
tary of the treasury was directed to make a
rd. report what " legiflafive provifipn was ne-
Vir- ceffary, &c."
com- This motion was carried 49 to 40 ; but
Vir- whatever difference of opinion there was in
rg in the house, as to the mode of doing the busi
ness, thers seemed to be but one lentiment
as to the propriety of complying with the
spirit of the resolution.
ntion Mr. Harper proposed a resolution cliree
oubt- ting the committee onPoft-Officesand Poft
every Roads, to enquire whether it would be ex
s the pedient, that the road from Edgefield court
was a house (S. C.) to Augusta in Georgia,
coun- (hould be changed so as to go thro' Char
that lefton, S. C. which after some observations
ice of to (hew it unnecefiary, as the fubjedl was al
od of ready generally under consideration, was
irvice negatived.
jvern- A bill from the senate, for the relief of
j him. William Imlay, commiilioner ■of loans for
irctry ; the state of Conneflicut, was twice read
\vhich and referred to the committed of claims,
■ggjlt Mr. faid, it vvotild be feeii by
over- the report of iinfinifhed business, that a bill
ittro passed the house in February last, for the
dtnee. relief and protection of American seamen,
ely to but not being a&ed upon by nhe Senate, he
e fatal found it would be necessary to bring sor
ed by ward the business anew in the House of Re
in pri- preventative?. He (hould, therefore, move
h glo- that a committee be appointed to bring in
of Pe- a bill for this purpose on Tuesday next. —
from Whilst he was up, Mr. L. said be (hould
r this present
of his A petition from the three daughters of
; but, the late Count ae Grade. Hie petitioners
his ar- state their funds asexliauftcd, principally by
is una- paying debts contra&ed before the grant of
ifinefs. Congress ; and not having yet received any
lie was returss from the estate left them in P 0 **
with it Paix, they pray for the farther,afiStfauce ofCongiefs, until they can get poEfeflion of j
their patrimony.—After the report of a '
committee 011 their former application, Mr. j
1., moved that this petition be referred to a
feleft committee.
Mr. Coit moved to have it referred to the
committee of claims. This motion was ne
gatived, there being only 22 p votes in favor
of :t ; the motion for a reference to a feledt
committee was then carried without a divi
sion. A committee of five was appointed.
Mr. Wadfworth presented the petition
of John Bagley, praying to have remitted
duties which he had been obliged to pay u
jon a veficl as Foreign, from some inform
ality as, to the register Referred to the
committee of commerce and manufactures.
Mr. Otis presented a petition from James
Swan, of Durchefter, Maifachufetts, pray
ing to be reimhurfed a certain sum which
he dates to be due to him, on account of
some foreign money tranfaftions had with
government, relating principally to a vari
ation of foreign exchange. Referred.
Mr. Dwight Foster, from the committee
«>f claims, made an unfavourable report on
the petition of A. Bagley, which was refer
red to a committee of the whole.
Mr. Thatcher movud that when the house
adjourn, it adjourn till Tuesday.
This motion was objected to by Mr.
Coit, but carried by a Conliderable majority.
Mr. Baird presented a petition from Da
vid Jones, late a chaplain 111 the army, pray
ing for leave to work a salt-spring 011 the
Scioto, in the North-Wcdern Territory.—
Referred to a feleft committee.
The order of the day being called for on
the report of the committee of commerce
and manufactures on thV petition of Louis
It; Guen, the honie went into a committee on
that subjeCt ; and, after fame observations
from Mr. Coit against the report, and by
*Mr. Swanwick in favour of it, the question
was taken, and the report in favour of the
petitioner negatived, there being only 22
members for it.
The house being resumed, on the motion
being put for a concurrence with the com
mittee of the whole in their disagreement to
the report, Mr. J. Parker called for the yeas
and nays upon the quedion ; but as one
fifth of the members present did not rife in
favour of the motion ( which is neeeffary ac
cording to the rules of the house) it was loft.
The motion to concur was then carried, 58
votes being in favour of it.
Adjourned till Tuesday.
LEGISLATURE or PENNSYLVA
NIA.
Abflrall of the proceedings of the House of
■ t , Reprefcntativcs.
On the loth, the bill'for making eompenfa
tion to the members of the late legijlature, who
were prevented from receiving it by an abrupt
adjournment, was agreed to. The following
bills reported at a former session, were referred
to committees, viz, for relief of Benj. /!blot and
David Jones ; and one for relief of James
Moore, of Alleghany county. A petition was
receivedfrom Frederick A. Muhlenberg,pray
ing to be'appointed Treajurer of the'Jlate. ' A
resolution was reported, anthoriftng the Com- j
mittee of Directors of the Bank of Pennsylva
nia to bring in a bill agreeably to the prayer of
their petition. The following gentlemen were
appointed a committee to try the election of Na
, thaniel B'.ileau, viz. Messrs. Brooke, Harris,
Macpherfon, Worral, Mawhorter, Whit chill,
Moore, Gehr, and Power.
On the 21fi, petitions were received from a
number of citizens, praying that the Governor
may be authorized to incorporate a company for
tie improvement of the navigation of the river
Lehigh, and that they may raise 10,000 dollars
by lottery ; from citizens of the county of Dau
phin, praying to be allowed to raise 900/. by
lottery, to jinijb a bridge across the Swetara ;
from the Commiffoners of the county of Phila
delphia,fating that the law for raising county
rates is repealed, and praying the Legislature to
renew thefaid alt. The bill Jar eflablifhing a
fyflem of bankruptcy, was referred to Messrs.
Wain, IVorrall, IVhitehill, C. Shoemaker, and
Henderfon r; and a committee was appointed to
bring in a bill to perpetuate the law extending
the f>owers o f Juflices of Peace.
By this day's Mail.
NEW- YORK, December 22.
Tcflerday capt. Hervty, of the (hip Ellice,
belonging to this port, and passengers, arrived
in town from New-Haven.
The Ellice was captured on the Bth Novem
ber, in lot. 36, 16, long. 68, 44, called, as
they underflood, the Brutus, commanded by
capt. Cauvet,from Porto Rico, who put capt.
H. ar.d his passengers, twenty-eight in all, on
board the brig Fama, captain Brufenburgh, of
Bremen, bound to Baltimore, which vessel they
had detained on thefame day. Capt. Hervey's
ill health would not permit him to proceed with
the Ellice—he, however, sent Mr. John
Gardiner, his chief mate, and Mr. John
Morgan, Clerk to Mejfrs. IVm. and j.
Hervey, of this place, to claim and defend the
property.
Ihe fame privateer captured the fame day
the brig tliza, capt, Harrington, from Am
fieri Im, bound to Philadelphia, on pretext of
her having been in several ports in England
since fie left Holland. The crew and passen
gers of this vessel were also put on board the
brig Fama, in ail It. They prom fed citft.
H. that they would fend fufficient provifirms
and waterfor their support to Baltimore ; they
were however, fuffcrcdto bring with them but
about forty pounds of beef and pork, one hun
dred weight of bread, and a few bottles of
porter qnd brandy, after much perfuajion the
capt. of the privateer gave them about one
hundred gal oris of water. They cruelly cut
and beat several of capt. Harvey's crew for
attempting to bring away more provisions. The ,
crew of the Brig Eliza, were not fuffered tj
bring away any provisions whatever.
They remained on board this vessel, 53 in
number, for twenty eight days, and had fuffered
for the greater part of that time for what of
provilions and water, having been at an at
litwance of three half p':r,!i of water nnd an
' r: f found of bread per day each man, an! ]
we or (if fisitf nf ng a -j>ay for St. f
Thomas, whsn m)Q tieyfill in with
the fchojner Aurora, cafi'ain Fofler, from '
ila.limere bound to St. 7 himas, who supplied
them with two barrels flour, fomt potatoes, one
barrel of beef, and about twenty gallons of
water, /with which they concludedflill to at
tempt to gain a port in America, the next day
they (poke the (hip Eliza, of Bremen, bound
to Baltimore, who supplied them with t\vo hun
dred weight of bread and sixty gallons of beer ;
on the seventh infant they spoke the schooner
btancy, capt. Banfhaufrom St. Bartholomews
New;- Haven, who at capt. Harvey's requefl
*nd with the concurrence of Mr. Barney, the
owner of the Nancy, kindly hovelns vffeltoo
far nearly three hours, tho' w;th a fair wind,
and took capt. Harvey and the greater part of
his crew and passengers on board, treated them
in the mofl friedly manner, and landed them at
New Haven in the I stbinjl.
We learn that the Ellice, capt. Harvey,
fvpm London for this port, was boarded on
her pafTage at different times, by two French
ships of war, out of France, who feverelly
examined the (hips paper 3, who then dis
missed her without any moledation. It was
on this coast, on foundings, that (lie
was captured by a French privateer of 8
guns, full of men, *aod carried for the Weft
Indies. The former circumstances do not
look as if any very late decree had been is
sued by the Freneh Directory, againdAmer
ican veflels,. as lately reported from St.
Thomas's
'•-I-*•/ tu'l II k.IUMMMU
d^ette*
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER aj.
Wednesday morning the workmen at tlie
new Bank of the United States (truck thtir
fcaffolding, and unfolded the novel anil en
chanting (cei)e of a truly Grecian Edifice,
composed of American white marble.
The entrance to this building is by a flight
of nine (teps through a Portico, in its pro
portions nearlycorrcfponding to the front of
the celebrated Roman temple at Nifmes; the
Pediment is supported by fix columns of the
order of Corinth, with the decorations they
bore at Palmyra and Rome when architecture
Was at its zenith in the Auguflan age; ten
Columns in Relievo of the fame order and
proportions support the principal front; the
tympan of the pediment is adorned with the
arms of the United States ; there is one
door in the centre with windows in each
of the interftic*s ; all the ornaments are
diftind, graceful, and appropriate, but too
difficult to describe minutely without the
pencil's aid.
As this ii the firft finifhed building of a
ny consequence, wherein truetafte and know
ledge has been difplayedin this country; it
is a pleating task to inform its inhabitants,
that the architect is an American, and was
born in the ft ate of Maflachufetts.
We are glad to observe that he has been
iarfful not to encourage by his example, the
innovations of those pretenders to faience,
who not knowing on how solid a basis the
antients cftablilhed their principles, have
vainly imagined themselves able to make im- '
provements; but whose futile endeavours
have only produced a multiplicity of incon- (
gruous parts, awkwardly huddled together, i
fatiguing the eye and diftrafting'the attenti
on. On viewing this building, the firft im- :
preffinn is, one plain and beautifully propoi
tioned whole. On a more pice infpe&ion, '
the eye searching for decoration, is richly
gratified, finds every thing of its proper size
and in its proper place, (plendid with ueat
nefs, nothing deficient, yet nothing croud
ed. fufiiciently striking but not abruptly
obtrusive, combining to form an elegant ex
hibition of simple grandeur and chaste mag
nificence.
It may now bejuftly affirmed, that agri
cultural and commercial perfuits are not the
sole objedts of America's attentiou ; but
that arts and sciences have already raised
their infant heads with all the fvmptoms of
beauty, health and vigor, that promise a
strong and rich maturity. Happy land !
how delightful are thy distant
while the full grown empires of Europe are
wafting their vigour in enervating luxuries,
and exhausting each ethers strength by re
lentless wars, and all their attendant hor
rors, benign philosophy, fisk of the defo
latiug scene, bends her ftudiqgs eye with
mild complacency towards the western
world, where enlightened freedom, honed
independence, and smiling peace, are pre
pared to welcome the celestial visitant.
It appears by an arrival at Portsmouth N.
H. »hat the Marquis La Fayette arrived at
Hamburgh in October. He was to fail for
Philadelphia in the John, two days after
capt. Hall, who arrived at Portsmouth on
the 13th Dec. in 49 days.
As I was coming from Gray's ferry, a
bout 10 o'elsck last night, I was attacked
by three ruffians about 100 yards from the
bridge, who with a pistol holding to my
bread, demanded my money, which I was
forced to give them, even dividing it in 3
parts, each one had a part, and told me to
go to town.
WILLIAM DALL.
December 20.
Married, last Saturday eveneng, by Rev.
Dr. Magaw, Mr. Frederick Heifz, to Miss
Deborah Palmer, of this city.
O'Hara whowas to have been executed
this day, has beee respited to the 27th in
stant.
The febr. Lovely Lass, Bender, from
Charleston hat arrived at Reedy Island.
Cap';. Houston, of the brig Amelia, from
Port au Paix, informs that the person ap
pointed Judge of the Court of Admiralty
was captain of the Medafa frigate, and not
Commodore Barney as reported.
TO-MORROW, Drceir.licr 24. S,
tlie Right R.ve-iffl Dodior Coke, inten is
to preach a Char,ity Sermon, for tbe bene!it
of the Poor, at 3 o'clock in the afternoon
at the Methodist. African Episcopal Church
in Sixth-Street, between Pine and Lom
bard streets.
Extra& of a letter frqm a djfsermng. Ame
rican in Holland, dated 12th Sept. 1797,
to his friend here.
" T had supposed that the two nations
were to meet on equal ground and (iifcufs
as equals the fuUifting differences between
them ; that a tetßjytrate appeal weiuld be
made to the great principles of r»afoa, ar.J
that the govetnipsntfpfc Phjkk; ia its deci
sion WouW conlider r«fpe£l the laws of
juftiee and our rightsaa an independent na
tion : However we may flatter ,qurfelves
with this opinion in America it i« not easy to
retain it in Europe. To rae it fecms that
America is here considered as a nation by no
mians entitled to independent?. That great
independent line of policy which was mark
ed out by Washington, and which our go* r
ernment hasfo wifely and so lleadily pursu
ed, is neither comprehended or ascribed to
proper motives. It is believed that we are
too weak to form and adhere to any nation
al system ; that we must be contemplated,
and mull contemplate ourselves as dependent
on one of the great nations of Europe by
which we are to be protetted and which we
mujl obey. This idea of us which is in some
degree produced by ourselves, which fuit9
the genius and felf-refpe£t of France, forms
I apprehend the basis of her system towards
us, and with a nation which receives Rapid
ly, impr«ffio!is not to be retnoyed by reaf»n
ing but by events ; it conflitutes a difficul
ty i.ithe accommodation of differences which
will not He easily furipounted. The gov
ernment of France considering the miffipn
of envoys on the part ifif tl»c United States
as a meafura has met it by fa
cilitating their" palTage'to asd they
have already received a paflporL The
plunder of our property, however, still con r
tinnes, and Americans having real buflnefs
in France, are still forbidden to enter the
republic."
From the Western Stir.
•' Out of thine mouth will I judge thee."
MefTrs. Printers,
Looking over your ufeful paper, of the
20th inft. I found a pieee entitled " The
Royalist" —a piece as unintelligible to rn;,
as the doftrine of PhilofophicalNeccflity and
Free Agency is with the doftriaes of the
Gospel. The author firft describes and ex
tols the happiness and obedience of our firft
parents; in which he appears to yield his as
sent to Revelation, and then coacluding his
pedantical publication by wishing for the u
niversal conquest of French Democracy:
(A solecism to all except a Socinian, or a
disciple of Priestley.) A system totally op
posed to all religion, and proved by fatal ex
perience to be subversive of all laws Civil or
religious. I knowof but one way to exten
uate the fault of the sfmor Libertatis. that is,
by fuppoling him just flown from the walls
of a College, and cenfequently ignorant of
that pefliferous fountain which has issued
ft reams to the inundation of the greater part
of Europe, and is bow undermining the
foundation of our own government, cement
ed with the blood of Americans !
To give the young gentleman a little po
litical knowledge, should he again undertake
to define chara&ers j the following, in his
own language, may give him the true defini
tion of a modern Democrat.
thr DEMOCRAT.
* What a feft of. people are these? Who
although" made a little lower than the angels
"are for levelling all diftintlions, and aspire
for an equality with the Deity itfelf—Can
such a system as this be supported by the
laws either of God, or man ? that poor de
praved creatures Ihould" rife in rebellion a
gainst God and man, despise one and destroy
the other. True "our land at firft was
formed for the fruition of happiness and fe
licity" by ptin&ual obedience : "in para
dise were tfltf firft 'prt>gemcors ojfour species
planted—for "the purpose of propagating a
land of" subordination," " abounding with
every thing necessary to the happiness of o
bedient man." " The sons" of anarchy and
rebellion "were as yet strangers to his peace
ful retirement < the greetings of " equality"
had not as yet saluted his oars—in short, e
very thiug Comprised in the.wholefyftem of
nature was adapted to augment his felicity ;
and with tacit adoration" he worshipped and
served the sovereign Lord of all. " Such
was the situation of man in this tranquil re
cess, and such he might have remained, had
nor he been iuftigated" to Rebellion " by
the fallacious solicitation of Satan,"
who was the firft Democrat that firft rebell
ed in Heaven, or disturbed the earth;
whose exile was more dreary than that of
Muir's, yet like him, he has been let loose
far a season, and continues to sow feeds of
sedition among the inhabitants of this lower
world. God grant he and his crew, may
soon return to their pandaemonium cell.—
" It was he, who being emi|lated by a spi
rit of" Democratic pride, firft aspired for
an equality with God, " and fowec! the firft
feeds of rebellion in the celestial regions ; it
W«is lie who firft" preached uninerfal etnanci
paiiHh and equafityj yfa-o oar parents," by
urging t!kWi the sweet morsel of
difobedienoejftq telling them that theyJhou/d
be as gods. doftrine—delufive
hope—bewitching evil. Man liileaed, and
alas ! by difobcdience he fell—the scene
changed, " instead of peace and tranquility;
war and b'loodflied." Man doomed to la
bout for row and death 1 made fubjeß to vani
ty, and turned into the wide world ; would
have soon fallen a prey to wild beails ; or
the not less ferocious monsters who held the
dodlrine of equality ; had not they associat
ed for mutual good and defence. What the
antediluvian, patriarchal, and Mofaieal go
vernments were, every hillorian knows ;
and may be ihallenged to undertake $ talk—
irap-jffiSU to perform, i. e . t a protlicea }
Angle from them all of modern De- <
mocracy. But ( as in old time, so 13 it now
" the fame ful>-!e inlinuiftv that caused m?in J
to rebel against his ereator—is flow ftimu- !
lating man to rebel again ft himfelf, by fug- !
gelling " that all men are equal, each has
his own god,* that he is accountable to 110
other f and that there is no " dignity " nor i
" superiority" in one man more than ana- I
tlier. With this creed, man is prepared for |
the most inhuman scenes—like Satan he
goej up and down on the earthy preaching li
berty and equality ; this fires the " brtafts !
of the populace, they rouse the martial im- j
plements if death," hurried on by the fin rf I
witchcraft, they behead Kings, raaffacre i
Pricfts, overturn altars, demolish Churchy,
blafphcme God a»d burn the Bible. Then
" stern Bellona clanks her iron whip with In
furiate frenzy absorbing the vortex of de
ft ru&ion, all those who embrace her mourn
ful invitation." Thus we fee the poor de*
lu<Jed French; once a "refplendant lumina
ry of Europe But now an opaque in'ori
fter with a grin. We fee them " still bleed
ing" in the deftru&ion of their own Coun
try, and the neighbouring nations—in the
cursed " cause" of infidelity and Democra
cy (a pair of twins who have but one own
will, i. t. to eat and drink the honest earn
ings of others) they drench the martial
plains with a sanguine fluid." But itis my
earnest wifli that they may" be defe»fed,
that they may be snatched from the clutch
es "of this artful infinuiftby returning
to God through Jefftj Christ, as Chriltians,
and to a government founded upon the lawj
of nations ; like good citizens ; and they
may pull dqwn the Pantheon, and " upon
the ruins" thereof, ere& a temple to the
Redeemer of the world; which may become
a " monument of" everlasting shame: to all
Democrats, Schismatics fcnd Apofrates.
CONSTANTINO.
* Reason is the French god and the Apollo of
thc(gc.
f See the r6rh chapter of and let e
very I)«mocrat learn it by wrote. ,
Monday being Christ aaa3, the next num
ber of this Gazette will be published on
Tuesday.
C 5" A Friend to Laws and Freedom is
unavoidably poftppned till our next,'
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
DECEMBER 23,
Will it frt/ented, a celebrated PLAY, intersper
sed rjjitb Jongt, in three aflj, called
THE MOUNTAINEERS.
f Written by George Caiman, jun. J
OS avian (JirJl time on thisJlage) by Mr. Taylor,
from the Theatre Boston.
The id aS will conclude <witb
A SPANISH FANDANGO
( Compojed by Mr- Francis. J
To which will bt added a Farce, in two ads t
called
THE IRISH WIDOW.
IVidoiu Brady, Mrs. Hardinge.
£jT On Tuesday, the Tragedy OF GEORGE
BARNWELL ; —With a new Pantomime en
tertainment called the CHRISTMAS FROL
ICK ; or HARLEQUIN'S GAMBOLS.
Box, one Dollar ; Pit, three quarter* of a Dol
lar ; and Gallery, half a Dollar.
The doors of the Theatre will open at 6ve,
an>l the curtain rile prccifcly at fix o'clock.
Places ior the Uoxea to be ukea at theO(F.ce in
the front of the Theatre, from 10 till a o'clock,
and from 10 till 4on the days of performance.
Tickets to behid at H.and Hlet's bo-k-rtpre,
No. jo Markec-llrret, and at the Oilice adioining
thj t'hearc. VIVAT RISfUBLICA !
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
AN adjourned meeting ofthe Stockhold
ers of the Delaware and Schuylkill
Canal is to be held at their Office on Tues
day evening January 2d at 6 o'clock, p. m.
precitely, and punftual attendance is re
quested, onmattersof the utmost importance
relating to certain propositions for the more
expeditioufly completing the work, and ob
taining the aid of the Legislature and the
Corporation of the City, for introducing a
copious supply of water into the fame.
Wm. MOORE SMITH, See'ry.
Dec. 23. at
This day is Published,
At the office the Aurora, No. 112, Market Street,
[ P»ice one dollar and a half,")
A view of th« conduit of the EXECUTIVE in the
FOREIGN AFFAIRS of the United Statu, connett
ed witb the Miflion to the French Republic during
the years, 1794, 5, 6,
By JAMES MONROE,
Late Minister Plenipotentiary to the laid Republic*
Illortrated by his INSTRUCTIONS and COR
RESPONDENCE and other authentic documents.
A very libeial allowance to those who bny to fell
again.
December 231 *6t.
Marshal's Sales.
United States, >
Pennsylvania Diftrift. { IT.
BY virtue of a writ of Fieri Facias iflucd outofthe
Diftrift Court ofthe United States for the Penn
sylvania Diilri&, to me direfted will be exposed to
Public Sale, on Tuesday the 2d day of January next
at the Merchant'* Coffee House in Second Street, in
the city of Philadelphia, the following tra&sand par
cels of vacanjt and unimproved lands situated ia the
County of Bedford in the State of Pennsylvania—to
wit; one tra& of land called Rulh Bottom, situated
on the waters of Liclicucreek, in Belfaft townlliip
in the fame county, bounded by lands of Jacob Bore
man, William Deftiong, Ralph Brooks and others,
containing three hundred and ninety-one acres, a»d,
one hundred and thirty two perches and the u'fnal al
lowance.
Gne traft called Newland, fhuated in Belfaft town
fliip in the fame county, bounded by lands of George
Si pes, Monci Difchangs, Neas William DiVchang,
John RulTle and others, containing four hundred and
four acres and three charters, and the usual allowances.
One tra& called Htckory Ridge, situated on the
waaeri of Tonolaway creek, in Belfaft townftiip in
the fame county, bounded by lands nf Elias Rirtmari,
Peter fctreights, George Boreman, Monci De thongs
and others, containing four hundred and forty-four
acres and ninety-fix peaches and allowance, Scc.
And one traft called Gold Mine, (ituate on the
waters of Tonolaway creek in Belfaft townfliip, in
the fame county, bounded by lands of Will 13m Woods
Peter Swartzler, John M'Lett, Jacob Boreman, Tho
mas Logan and oth-rs, containing three hundred and
seventy acres and fifty-fix perches and allowancea, See.
The foregoing tta«s are all patented, seized and
taken in extcbtion as the property of Philip: R,ci!ly,
and to be fold by
William Nichols, Marjhal.
Etrfmhtr Jg. '•''J 1
"„Ma»(h-aFs Sales.
U>ilTEI) 3t,ATVS». > fj.
TVnr.fylvama D.iPriiS, • •
BY virtue of a writ of fieri facias ifiued on! cf
the tliftriit court of the United "States f«,r
the-Frpnfytvania diflrkl,, to mr ,direiled, wi,.l
tie exposed to (ale, on Tucfday the ,;d day ef;
JiOtisry nrxt, at the.Mcrchants' Coffce-houfe ijs
Second-flreet, in the pity of Philadelphia, ih?}
fo'lowirif: tr.-i<ts Sr parcels of vacant and unifn*
proved LANI), situated irr the county of So
merfci, lite county of Bedford) in the (late of
l'Cjipfvlvaina, viz.—
A c ertain trail, surveyed in the name of Ma«
ry Fap.eiiMii, c«nt.->iqing three hundred & eighty
actes and the tjl'ua! allowance &c. fit-uated on the
u-aters of JJtony -. reck, in Stoney creek towofhipj
and bounded by landj surveyed tor Joseph ICiilti
bride, Jbhn Roads, Charhs Kcinlhaw, and o
then. . V ■
A rp-tjin oMier trail, surveyed iri the nam?
(•if Ge»rge Campbell, containing four hundred
and ten acre# and allowance &c. fituated'on th«
weft fide of Alleghany Mountain, on thewaterj
of Stony creek, in Stony creek towirthip, fer*
merly Bedford,now Somerset county, and bound
ed by lapdifurveyed for Joseph liirkbrida, JVla
ry Esflrm.in, Johw Rovyfer and others.
. A certain other tratel, lurveyed in the name of
Benj anu'n Lodge, lontaimog four hundred and
fourteen a :rcs & three quarters & allowaccc,&c,
('tua'ed on tiie waters of Clear run, a branch of
Stony creek, in Stony creek tnwnfnig, in the
county alorefaid, and bounded bv iands fyrveyer}
for Wiiliim Gaitack, Wil.tara Skinner, Georgi
Campbell and otb?r«.
A certain other trail, surveyed in the name of
Richard Williams', containing three hundred
and ninejy-l'even aciesanda half and allowance
&c. situated on the state road and o!s! road lead
ing from Bedlord m Pitt&urg, and or. the wa
ters ot Stony creels, in Stony creek township, in
the county aforefaid, and bounded by lands syr
veyed for Jacob Stotler, William Get amy, Sa«
rnu?l Adams r ed others.
A certain other trail, surveyed In the narae
of William Gattack, containing, four hundred
and one acr.-» and a half a."d allowance &&.. litu
ated on Clear run, a branch of Stony creek, in
Stony creek township, in the county aforefaid,
and bounded by lands surveyed for Robert Wil
liams, William Skinner, Benjamin Lodge and
others.
A certain oaher trail, surveyed in the name
of Robert Williams, containing four hundred
and two Seres and a half and allowance He. fitu
aud on the waters of stor»y freek, in Stinsv
creek towr.fbip, in the county sni}-
bour.ded by lands {surveyed for Jacob Ziglar,
Richard Williams, SamueJ Adams and others.
A certain other trail, surveyed in the r.ame
of James Johnson, containing three hundred
and nintty-five acres and allowance &c. fitmted
onbeth fides of the Gate road, on the waters of
Stony creek, in Stony creek township, in the
county aforefaid, and bounded by lands surveyed
for Alexander Johnson, Joseph Engle, Conrad
Weaver and others.
A certain other trail, surveyed in the name
of Alexander Johnson, containing four hundred
and five acres and a half and allowance &c. situ
ated on the waters of Stony creek, in Stony
creek township, in the county aforefaid, and
bounded by lands surveyed f«r John Lombard,
James Johnson, Joseph Eagle and others.
A certaii other trail, surveyed.in the name
of John Johnson, containing four hundred and
eight acres and three quarters and allowance
&Ci situated on waters of Stony creek, in
Stony ereek township, in the couuty aforefaid,
and bounded by lands surveyed for Robert Ttick,
ness, John Shoemaker, Mathias baker and
others.
A certain other trail, surveyed in the name
of William Campbell, containing four hundred
and seventeen acres and a quarter and allow
ance &<-. situated adjoining jjones's road, and a
on a large run emptying into Laurel-hill creek,
ctherwife called the North Fork of Turkey-foot,
in MUlford townftip, in the county aforefaid,
and bounded by lands surveyed for Jefeph Bark
er, Mathias Goflet, Benjamin Rufsleand others.
A certain other trait surveyed in the name of
Qctfey Galbreath,containing three hundred&nina
ty nine acres and one quarter and allowance, See,
situated on Roaring run, a small branch of Laurel
Hill creek, in Milford townlhip, in the county a.
forefaid, and boundsdby landi surveyed for John
Driver, Maffs Parker, Jafeph Barker and others.
A certain other trail surveyed in the name of
Jof ph Barker, containing four hundred and three
acres and one quarter and allowance, &c. situated
on a large run emptying into Laurel Hill creek a
bout a mile above ihe falls, in Miiford townlhip, ia
the county aforefaid, a«d bounded hy lands sur
veyed for MathrasGoffett, William Campbell,Bet
fey Galbreath and other;.
A certain other trail surveyed in the name of
James CiiTna, containing four hundred and one a
crei and one quarter land allowance, &c. situated
on Jones's Mill run, a branch of Laurel Hill creek,
in Milfard townlhip, in the county aforefaid, and
bounded by lands surveyed for Robert M'Conncl,
John Kendall, Benjamin Bankfon and others.
A certain other trail surveyed in the name of
Mary Galbreath, containing four hundred and
one acres and allowance, &c. situated on Jones's
mill ru», a branch of Laurel Kill creek, in Mil
ford townlhip. in the county aforefaid, and boun
ded by lands surveyed for Gabriel Heiftcr, Jamea
Cifi'na, James Campbell and others.
A certain other trail surveyed in the name of
James Campbell, containing four hundred and
twenty three acres and one quirtar and allowance,
&c. situated on the head waters of Shaver's Mill
run, andon both fides of the middle road, part in
Milford and part in Somerset townfhipin the cou:»
ty aforefaid, and bounded by lands fu. veyed soy
Theodore Memimgcr, William Sheaff, Joan Scott
and others'.
A cernin other trail surveyed in the name of
John Scott, containing four hundred and three a
crcs and three quart«rs and allowance, &c, situat
ed on the head waters of Shaver's mill run, in So.
mcrfet townlhip and Somerset county, late Milford
townlhip, Bedford county, aud bounded by landa
surveyed for William Shcaff, Jumcs Campbell,
William Scott and others.
A certain other trad, surveyed in the name of
William Scott, containing three hundred and eigh.
ty-nine acres, and one quarter, and allowance, &c,
situated on a large run, emptying into Laurel Hilt
Creek, about a mile above s the middle road, ip So
merset townlhip, Somerset county, late Midford
townlhip, Bedford coiftity,and bounded by lands
surveyed for Isabella Galbreath, William Coates,
Robert Martin, and others.
A certain othet tra6l, surveyed in the name of Sa
muel Hagerman, containing four hundred and thir*
teenacresand allowance, See. fiiuated on both fide,
of the State road on the waters of Stony creek in Sto»
ny creek townlhip, formerly Bedford, now Somer
set county and bounded by lands surveyed for Samuel
Hiilcgas, Cornelius Barns, Jacob Slotter and others.
A certain other trail surveyed in the name of Fran*
cis Walker, containing three hundred and ninety-two
acres and a half and allowance, &c. situated on the
waters of tbe North Fork of Turkey Foot, near the
line between Milford and Turkey Foot townlhipc,
Somerset county late Bedford couuty and bounded by
lauds surveyed for Jelfeßrooke, John Brooke, William
Biddlc and Peter Frotman and others.
The foregoing lands are held by warrant of Survey,
Seized and taken in execution as the property of
fh'lip Reiily.
William Nichels, MarJhaU
Qecembtr *3. dtaj.PROPOSALS
FOR
CARRTING THE PUBLIC .MAILS
on the following Post Roads will be re
ceived at the General Post Office until
the 30th day of January next inelufive. I
PENNSYLVANIA, Wc.
1. From Philadelphia by Wilmmgt»n v.Ncwcar
tle, Cantwell's Duck creek, Dover, l'red
crica, Milford, C'nughs, Daglborough, Trap,
SnewhUl, Horntown and Accomac coutt house to
Northampton court house three timet a week.
April I t'j November IJ. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery Yuefdav, Thiufday and Saturday at 2 a M,and
arrrive at Northampton court house on Thnfday,
Saturday andllondsy at7J Pm. /'-turning. Leave
Northampton court hi.use every VtHay, Monday
and Wednesday at 1 a m, and arrive at Philadel
phia on Monday, Wednesday and Friday hy 7 l*»
P M.
A'member 15 toApril I. Leave Philadelphia ev
ery i'uefdjy, Tliurfday au ; J Saturday at 6a m,
and arrive at Northampton court house on Friday,
Monday and Wednesday by 7r M. Returning—
Leave Northampton court houie every Saturday,
Juefday and Thursday at 6 a m, andariive at
Philadelphia on Wednesday, Friday and Monday
by ; I'm.
VIRGINIA.
2. From Northampton court house to Norfolk
three times* week.
Apnl 1 to November 15. Leave Northampton
court houfs every Monday, Wednesday and Fri- I
day at 8 pM, and arrive at Norfolk in 14 hours.
Mctumhg—Leave Norfolk, every Wednesday, Fri-1
Cay and Monday a 4 a m, and arrive at Korthamp- .
to a.courthouse in twenty four hours.
jVo ?emUr I f to April I. Leave Northampton '
court house everyTuefday, Tli :-fday and Saturday
at 3a M, and arrive at Norfolk in 14 hours. Re
lurking—»L«ave Norfolk every Monday, Wcdaef
fiay a id Friday by 4 am, and arrive at Northamp
ton court houle in 24 hours.
PENNSYLVANIA & MARYLAND.
3. From Philadelphia by Wilmington, New
pelt, Chriftiana,Middletown,Warwick andGoerge- !
town croft roadstoCh%fterfto frnthreetiuiesa week. ;
May Ito November 1. Leave Philadelphia every !
Sunday, Tuefd?y and Thurftfay by 9 r m, andar- !
rive at Chellertown the next days by t! pm. Re
turning—Leave Uheftertown every M«nday, Wed- '
hefday and Friday by 9 p m, and arrive at Phila
delphia the next days by 8 P K.
November I to May I. Leave Philadelphia eve
ry Monday and Friday by 9 a u, and arrive at '
Chellertown m Tuesday and Saturday by 4 p m. I
.f —Zj'.ytc C'heSertown every Monday aad J
Friday by 8 a m, and arrive at Philadelphia on 1
Tuesday and Saturday by 4 p m.
MARYLAND.
4. From Cheftertpwn by Centerville, Eafton,
Newmarket, Vienna, Salilbury, Snowhill and Prin
cess Ann to Salilbury once a week.
Receive the n«tl at CheftertoWn e«ry Wednes
day at 7 .1 M, arrive at F.afion by 4 p m. Leave
E all on onThurfJay by 6 a m, arrive at Snowhill
ail Friday by I p. m, and at Princcls Ann by 6 p.
m. Returning— LeavePrinceft Ann on Saturday by
10 A m, arrive at Eafton the next day or Monday
by 6p M. Leave Eaflnn on Tuesday by 8 a M.and
f.rrive at Cfieftertown fame day by 4 p m.
5. From Harfofd by Bel- Air to the Black horse
onc2 a week.
Leave Harford everyTuefday hy 10 a m, and
arrive at Black horse by 6p m. Returning—Leave
Black horse on Wednesday by 6 a 9, and arrive at
H irl'ord'.he next Tuesday by 9a m.
PENNSYLVANIA, MARYLAND and VIR
GINIA.
6. From Baltimore by Blackliorfe to Yorktown
■Pa. acoe a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday by 4 f m, arrive
at BlackhoWe on Saturday by 10 a m, and arrive
a: Yorktown by 8 rr*. Returning—Laavc York
town every Thursday by 7 A m, and arrive at Bal
timore on Friday noon.
7. From Yorktown by Hanover, Petersburg,
Ta.ieyton and Fredericktown to Leefburg once a
woelc.
Leave Yorktown every Monday at 8 A m,arrive
at Fredericktown on Turfdayby 5 p m, andarrive
at Leeiburg on Wednesday by Ip m. Returning—
"Leave Leefcurg every Friday at noon, andarrive
at Yorktown by 6 p m on Sunday.
8. From Yorktown by Abbotftown.Gettilburg,
Fairfield, Eliiabethtown, Williatr.fport, Martinf
hurg, Winchester, Stevenfburg and Strafburg to
Woodftock once a week.
Leave Yorktown every Sunday by noon, arrive
at Martinfburg on Tuesday by 11 am. Leave
Martinlburg on Tuesday roon andarrive at Wood
ftock on Weducfday by 6p m. Returning—Leave
Woodftock on Thursday by 6 a m, arrive at Mar
tinlburg on Friday by 11 a m, andarrive atYork
fown on Sunday by 11 a m.
9. From Pittlburg by Cannonlburg, Walhing
fon, Waft Liberty and Wheeling to the month of
Filhing creek once a week (contrad for one yfear
only.)
Leave Pittlburg every Friday at 9 a m, and ar
rive at Filhing creek 011 Sunday at 9 a m. Return
tog Leave Filhing creek on Wednesday at 8a m,
and arrive at Pittlburg on Friday at 8 * m.
10. From Walhington by Brownsville and Union
to Morgantown once a week.
Leave Union every Friday at 6 a m, and arrive
at Walhington by 6p m. Leave Washington on
Saturday at 6 a m, arrive at Morgantown on Sun
day at 6p m. Leave Morgantown on Monday at
8 a M, andarrive at Union by 3 p «•
11. Frcm Baltimore by Fredericktown, Eliza
bcthtown, Grcencaftle and Chamberlburg to Ship
penfburg once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday by II a m, arrive
Ht Fredericktown on Saturday by 1° a m, atKli
2fabethtown in the evening, and at Shippenfburg
011 Monday by 7p m. Returning—Leave Shippenf
burg every Tuesday at 9 a m, arrive at Elizabeth
town at 8 p m, at Fredericktown on Wednesday
noon, and at Baltimore on Thursday by Jpm,
MARYLAND.
11. From Eliaabethtown by Hancock and Old
town to Cumberland unce a *=clc.
Leave Cumber land every Saturday by 6 a M.and
arrive at Elizabethtown 011 Monday by 8 a m.
Returning —I,rave Elizabethtown every Monday by
to a m, and arrive at Cumberland On Tuesday by
6 pm.
13. From Baltimore to Annapolis once a week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday at 8 a m, and
arrive at Annapolis by 5p m. Returning—Leave
Annapolis every Tuesday at 8 A m, and arrive at
Saltimore by 5 pm.
14. From Baltimore by Annapolis, Queen Anns,
Upper Marlborough,Pifcataway.Perttoliacco, U
lensfrelh, Newport and Chaptico to Leonardtown
ohce a week.
Leave Baltimore every Friday "at lo a m, arrive
at Annapolis at 5p m. Leave Annapolis on Sa
turday at 6 am, arrive at Upper Marlborough
by noon,arrive atPifcataway by 6 p m. & arrive at
Leonardtown every Monday forenoon by 9o'clock.
Returning —Leave Leonardtown every Monday at 3
p m, arrive at Pifcataway on Tuesday hy 6 p m
arrive at Upper Marlborough 011 Wednesday by
jla m, and arrive at Annapolis by 6p m. Leave
Annapolis on Thursday by 7 a m, and arrive at
Baltimore by 3 p m .
15. From Annapolis by Lower Marlborough,
Huntington and Calvert courthouse to St. Leon
ards once a week.
Lpave Annapolis every Saturday at 9 A m, and
arrive at St. Leonards on Monday by 3p m. Re
turning —Leave St. Leonards every .Monday at 4
p m, and aifive at Annapolis the next Saturday by
6 am.
j6. From Bladenflourg by Upp.cr M.jrlbora^h,
Nottinghr.ll, Lower Vfariborouj;h, .AcquafCjß.R
-nadid and Ch'ai lotteh:ill to Chaptico dace a weak, a
Leave Bladenfburjjev ty Saturday at y a M,ar- 1
rive at Upper by nooa and at Low.'r ;
Marlbori-ugbon Monday by S ' at Chaptico
by 6 P Mv Returning — h.nf
day at 6 a m, and arrive at Bladenfbiirg on Satu.-
day at 6 a m ,
17. From Georgetewn by Montgomery court
house to Fredericktown once a week.
Leave Georgetmni every Friday by 6 a m, and
arrive at Fredericktown by 6 pm. Returning—
IJeave FredcricktC'A'n every Thursday by 5 a m,
and arrive at Georgetown by 6 pm.
VIRGINIA.
la. From Woodftock by Nevymarket, Rocking
hi"" court house, Staunton, Lexington and Fi;icaf
tle to Big lack once a week.
Leave Woodftock every Thursday by 6 a m, ar
rive at Staunton 0:1 Friday at Ip m. Leave Staun
ton every Friday at a p m, arrive at Big Lick on
Sunday by li i. m. Returning—Leave Big Lick
ofeSunday by I p m, arrive ' j»«»«iiton every Tuel
dayby II a m. Lceve Stauntu.il by 11 o'clock
)noon) and arrive at Woodftock on Wednclday by
5 p
ij. From Big Lick by Montgomery courthouse
and Wythe court house to Abingdon once & week.
Leave Big Lick every Sunday at I p m, arrive
at Wythe court house on Tuesday by 2 p m, and at
Abingdon on Wednesday by 6 pm. Returning—
Leave Abingiion every Thursday by 6 a m, arrive
at Wythe court house on Friday by 1 p m, and ar
rive at Big Lick on Sunday bv ;i am.
TENNESSEE.
10. From Abingdon, Vir. by Jonefborough
Greenville,Moffat's liore andjeffcrfon court houle
to Knoxvilio once a week.
Leave Abingdon every Thursday by 6 a m, ar
rive at Vlofftts store on Saturday by 8 a m. Leave
Moffats by 9 a m, and arrive at Knoxville on Sun
day by 10 a M* Returning—Leave Knoxville eve
ry Sunday by » P m, arrive at Moffats on Monday
by 3r m. Leave Moffats, on Monday at 4p m,
and arrive at Abingdon on Wednesday by 7 r m.
VIRGINIA.
si. From Wineheftcr by Romney to Moorfields
once a week.
Leave Winchester every Thursday at 6 a m,and
arrive at MoorEeldan Friday by 6 PM. Return
ing—Leave Moorfield every Saturday at 8 a M,and
arrive at Winchester on Sunday by 6 PM.
■ 11. From Alexandria by Centerville, Leefburg
and Shcpherdftown to Martinlburg once a week.
Leave Alexandria every Wednesday at 9 a m,
and arrive at Martinlburg on Friday by 10 am.
Returning—Leave Martinlburg every Friday by
noon Ik arrire at Alexandria on Monday by 7 a m.
S3. From\Frederickfbburg by Port Royal, Lay
tans, T&ppahilrinock, Urbanna and Gloucester court
house to Yorktown once a week.
Leave Fredericklburg every Wednesday at 6 a
m, arrive at Tappahannock on Thursday by >1
1a m. Leave Tappahannock at noon and arrive at
Yorktown on Saturday by, ham. Returning—
Leave Yorktown every Saturday at 1 P M, arrive
at Tappahannock the next Monday noon and arrive
at Frcdericklkurg on Tuesday by 5 P M.
14. Frotn Tappahannock by Richmond court
koufe, Weftmoreland court house, K-infale, Farn
hani church and Northumberland (ftiirt house to
Lancaster court house once a week-
Leave Tappahannock every Thursday noon and
arrive at Lancaster court house on Saturday by 11
a m. Returning—Leave Lancaster court houic ev
ery Saturday by 1 P M. and arrive at Tappahan
nock on Monday by 11 a m.
».?. From Fredeyckfburg by Culpeper eouet
houie & Orange c. h. to Charlottefvilleonce a week.
Leave Fredericklburg every Tuesday at to a m,
and arrive at Charlottefville on Thursday hy 11 a
m. Returning—Leave Charlottefville on Saturday
at 8 PM, and arrive at Fredericklburg o» Tnef
ilay by' 6 am.
»6. From Richmond by Goochland court
house Columbia and Charlottelville to Staunton
once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 1 p M, ar
rive at Charlottefville on Thurftay by 11 a m.
Leave Charlottefville bv noon and arrive at
Staunton en Friday by 11 am. Returning—
Leave Staunton o* Saturday by 6 A M, arrive at
Charlottefville by 7 P M, and arrive at Rich
mond the next Tuesday by 9 A M.
17. Frem Staunton by Bath court-house and
Sweet Springs to Greenbrier court-house once a
week.
Leave Staunton every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Greenbrier court-house on Tuesday by
6 pm. Returning—Leave Greenbrier court
house every Monday by 9 a m, and arrive at
Staunton on Thursday by 8 p m.
18. From Charlottefvile by Warren, War.
minster, New-Market, Amherft court house,
Cabelllburg, and Maddifon to Lynchburg once
a week.
Leave Charlottefville every Thursday at 1 p
M. and arrive at Lynchburg on Saturday at 6
p M. Returning—Leave Lynehburg every
Tuesday by 6 a m, and arrive at Charlottefville
on Thursday by 10 A M.
19. From Richmond by Hanovertown, Ay
letts and Todds to Tappahannock once a week
or if carried in stages as often a» they /hall run.
Leave Richmond every Wednesday at 5 a m,
arrive at Todds at 3 P M, and at Tappahannock
on Thursday at 11 AM. Returning—Leave
Tappahannock on Monday at 1 p m, and ar
rive at Richmond on Tuesday by 5 PM.
,30. From Richmond by Hopkins's, Powha
tan court house, Cumberland court house, Prince
Edwardcourt house and Lynchburg to NeW-
London, once a week.
Leave Richmond every Tuesday at 8 A M,
arrive at Prince Edward on Wednesday at 6 P
m, and arrive at Lynchburg on Friday at 8 A M,
and at New-London by 10 AM. Returning—
Leave New-London every Friday at 2 r M, ar
rive at Lynchburg by j fx, arrive at Prince
Edward on Saturday by 7 p m, and arrive at
Richmond on Monday by 4 p m..
31. From New-London by Liberty to Fincaf
tle once a week.
Leave New London every Friday at 1 y m,
and arrive at FincaJlle on Saturday by 6 r M.
Returning—Leave Fincaftle on Monday at 5 A
M, and arrive at New London on Tuesday noon.
31. From Liberty by Rocky Mount to Mar
tinvilleonce in two weeks.
Leave Liberty every other Saturday at 6 A
M, andarrive at Martinvilleon Sunday by 6 P
m. Leave Martinville on Monday by 6 A M,
and arrive at Liberty on Tuesday by 6 pm.
33. From Prince Edward court house by-
Charlotte court house to Halifax court house
once a week.
Leave Prince Edwardconrthoufeevery Thurs
day at 6 A M, and arrive at Halifax court honfe
on Friday at 10 AM. Returning—Leave Hal
ifax courthouse on Friday by 2 P M, and ar
rive at Prince Edward court house on Saturday
by 6P M.
VIRGINIA and NO H TH- CAROL IN A.
34. From Halifax coui t-houfe by Halifax old town,
Cariers, Martinville, Patrick court-house, Upper Sau
ra, Gtrmantnwn and Bethania to Salem once in two
weeks.
Leave Halifax court-house every other Friday at
2, P M, and arrive at Salem the next Monday by 6,
PM. Returning Leave Salem every other Tuesday
at 6, A M, and arrive ai Halifax court-house on Fri
day by 10, A M.
35. From Harris's by Hickes'sford to Halifax twice
a week.
Leave Harris's every Wednesday and Saturday by
5, A M. and arrive at Halilax by 6, P M. Return
ing—leave Halilax every Thursday and Sunday by 6,
A M, and arrive at Harris's by 7, P. M.
VIRGINIA.
36. From Smithfield by Southampton court-house
o Uick-I'3 ford once a wc?k.
I-ejve liicWs Tori e«'y o' 1 '" f rii, y p M
aid anive at Smithfield on Saturday by j, P M— ;
Returning— ReaveSoitfcficU every S md.iy bv t
5. A M, an J jm.e »' Kick's f->rd 0.. Monday by I
a, P XL. ' *
37. FromGoldfonsbv G-c«hrid ? e, St. TammanvW 1
Mecklenhcrg and Luner.bufg c.iuri-houfcs and Ed- j,
munds store to Goldfon's nnce a »verk.
Leave Goldfon's every V/edn.-fdav at to, A M, and ;
return the next Saturday bv a, P M, waiting at each t
I'oll-O.Ticc 2 hours after delivery of the mii'. f
VIRGINIA y NOKTH-V.IROLTXA. ,
38 From Suffolk by Edemou, Plymou'h and Wa- ,
fhington to Newbern, once a Leave Suffolk
every Mondav at i*oon, artive at Edenton tin Fuef- f:
dav at 1, P M, at P'Vniou.'h, on Wtdncfday by 6, .
AM, at Wafliint;ton by 6, PM, and at Nev.btr.ion j
T(iur<d»vby ■„ PM- Reluming—-Leave Newbern (
every Friday by 6, A M, afiive at Washington by
5, P M. Anive at Plymouth on Saturday by 4 (
P M, atEdtnton on Sunday by jr," A M, andatSuf- ,
folk on Monday by 9- A Mv 1
NORTH CAROLINA.
39. From Edcpto.'iby l-lcitford, Nixoriton, Eiiza- "
beth city, and ioaefburg to Indian-iowo, once a
I Q
week.
Leave Edenton every Wednesday by 1, P M, and '
arrive at Indian-town on Tbu-'fday by 6, P M. Re
turning—Leave Indiar.toVn every Tuesday by 5, A M,
and arrive at Kdenton on Wednesday at 11, A M.
40. from Halifax by Northampton ci uit-houfe,
Princeton, Milrfreefborough, Wintou and Windsor
to Edenton, orce a week.
Leave Halifax every Monday at q, AM, and arrive
at Edenton on Wednesday by 3, P M, leave Eden
ton on Wednesday by 6, P M, and arrive at Halifax
on Saturray bv 11, AM '
41. Fiom Halifax by Scotland, Hogton, Williamf
ton and Daily's to Plymouth, once a wetk. Leave
Halifax every Monday at i», A M, and arrive at Ply
mouth on Wednesday by 10, A M. Returning—
Leave Plymouth on Wednesday at «, P M, antrar.
rive at Halifax on Fiiday at to, A M.
4s. From Halifax by Taiboro' and Greenviflp to
Wafhingtononee a week.
Leave Halifax every Monday at 10, A M, and ar
rive at Washington on Wednesday by 10 A M. Re
turning —'.eavc Washington every Wednesday at 3,
P M, and anive at Halifax on Friday at 10, A M.
43. From Halifax by Warienton,Willi«mfborough,
Oxford, Hillfhor»ugh, Martinville, Salem, Lexing
ton, Salisbury and Statefville to Charlotte and from
Charlotte by Cabanas court-house to Salisbury, and
from thence by the fame route to Halifax, once a
week.
Leave Halifax every Monday at 9. A M, arrive at
Waireuion by 7, P M, arrive at Hillfborough on
Wednesday at 4, P M, at Salem on Friday by j,
P M, at Sahlburv on Saturday at 4, P M, and at
Charlotte on Monday by 6, AM. Returning—leave
Charlotte on Monday at 10, A M, arrive at Salisbury
on Tuesday by to, AM, arrive at Salem Wed
nesday at 9, A M, at Hillfborough on Friday by 9,
AM, at Warrentonon Saturday at 7, PM, and at
Halifax an Monday at 6, A M.
44. From Hillfborough by Mount Tirzali, Petfon
couit-houfe, Leafburg, Cafwell court-house and Roc
kingham court-house to Gcrmantown once in two
weeks.
Leave Hillfborough every other Thutfday at 6, A M,
and arrive at Gcrmantown on Saturday at 4, P. M.
Leave Germantown every •'hrr Sunday at 6, A, M,
and arrive at Hillfborough on Tuesday at 4, P M.
4*3. From Salem by Bethania, Huntfville, Roch
ford, Wilkes, Morganton and Rutherfordton 10 Spar
tanbusg in S. C. once in two weeks.
Leave Salem <veiy other Saturday at 5 a m, and ar
rive at Spirtanburg on WHnefday at 5 >m. Leave
Spartanburg every other Thursday at 7 A M, and ar
rtve nt Salem the next Monday at € 1 m.
46. Frdm Louifburg by Nafh court-house to Tar
borough once a week.
Ltave Talbo'rough every frldiy by 6 a m, and ar
rfvtat by 6f M. Rit'trmug—LtiaveLouif
borg every Saturday by si a m, aud arrive at Tarbo
rough by 6 r m.
47. From Raleigh by'Smithfield, Waynefbor ugh,
and TCitrgfton to Newbern, orice in two weeks.
Leave Raleigh every other Tuesday by ® a m, and
arrive a t Newbern the next Friday by 10 a m.
Returning—Leave Newbern every other Friday by a
t M, anfl arrive at Raleigh oh Monday bv'6 r M.
48. Frdm Ra'.eigh by Cbopel hiH to Hillfborough,
and from fltUfboiough by Chapel hill and Caabam
eourt-houfe to Raleigh, once a week. To wait two
hours at Chatham court-house.
Leave Raleigh every Ttiefday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at Hillfborough by € r M. Relkminf—Leave
Hillfborough every Wednesday by 8 a m, and arrive
at Raleigh on Thursday by 10 a m.
49. From Fayetteville by EHzabethtown, Bellefort
and Springfield 10 Wilmington, and from Wilming
tan by S. Washington, Sareflo and Sampson court
house to Fayetteville, once a week.
Leave Fayetteville every Tuesday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Wilmington on Thursday at to a* m. Re
turning—Leave Wilmington every Thursday I 4 r m
aud arrive at Fayetteville on Sunday by 5 r m.
50. From Fayetteville by Alfordton and Randolph
court-house to Salisbury, and from Salisbury by Mont
gomery court-house, Anfon ccutt-houfe and Rich
mond court-house to Fayetteville, once a week.'
Leave Fayetteville every Saturday at 6 a m, and
arrive at Salisbury on Tuesday by 9a m, Leave Sa
lisbury every Tuesday noon and artiva at Fayetteville
on Friday by 6 r m.
51. From Newbern by Trenton and Richland to
Wilmington once a week.
Leave Newbern every Friday at 10 a m, and arrive
at Wilmington on Sunday by 6 p. m. Leave Wil
mington every Tuesday at to am, aod arrive at New
bern on Thursday by&r
SOUTH & NORTH-CAROLINA.
ja. From Camden by Lancaster court-house, Char
lotte and Lmcolnton, to Sutefvifle, x>nce in two
weeks. . ■
Leave Camden every other Monday at 6 a m, ar
rive at Statefville on Thursday by 6r m Loave Statef
ville every other Friday by 1 r m, and arrive at Cam
den on Monday by 6 r. m .
SOUTH-CAROLINA,
33. From Columbia by Wmnfborough, Chester
court-house, Pinckneyville, Spartanburg and
Greenville court-house to Pickenfville, and
from Pickenfville by Laurens court-hoult and New
bury court-house to Columbia, once a week : Walling
one hour at each poft-oriicc on the route.
Leave Columbia every Monday at y a m, arrive at
Spartanburg every Wednesday by 3 r M, arrive at
Pickenfville on Thtlrfday »t4P m, arrive at Laurens
court-house on Friday at 4 p m, and at Columbia on
Sunday by 6 r m.
54. From Columbia by Orangeburg to Charlcfton,
once a week.
Leave Columbia every Monday at I® a r.r, and ar
rive at Chariellon 011 l'hurfday at 10 a sj. Returning
—Leave Charleston every Thursday at * p u, and ar
rive at Columbia on Sunday at neon.
SOUTH-CAROLINA & GEORGIA.
jj. From Edgefield court-house by Cambtidge,
Abbeville eourt-boufe, Pendleton court-house, Hat
tonsford, Franklin court-house, Efberton aud Peter IJ
1 burg to Washington, and from Washington by Pc
terfburg and Cambridge to Edgefieid court-house,
once a week.
; Leave Edgefield court-house every Friday by 8a m
arriveat Pendleton court-house on Sunday by 9 .1 m,
arrive at Franklin couit-boufe by 7 r m, at Petersburg
, oil Tuesday by to a in, and at Washington by 5 p
M. Leave Wa!hiiiaton«ve<iy Wednesday at 6 A M,
at Cambiidge on Thurtday byno A m, and at-Edge
" fieldcourt-houfc by 7r w. -i f i
' 56. From Aagulta bv Waftnugion, Greenfburg and
Lexington to Gcotpelown. oncea''week.
Leave Augusta every Monday at 3 r m, arrivo at
, Washington on Tuelday by j p'at, and arrive at
■ Georgetown on Thursday by 7 r u. Retorting
-1 Leave Geotgctown eycry Friday at 6a m, aud anive
at Augtifta by noon on Monday.
57. From Gardens Corner to Beaufort once a week.
Leave Beaufort every Thursday at s P M, and arrive
' at Gardens Corner by 8r m. Returning—Leave Gar.
■ dens Corner every Thursday at 5 a m, and arrive at
Beaufort by 10 a. h.
Niie I. Tht Poji Maft:r General may alter the times
of arrival end departure at any time during tbe continuance
of the contrails, ie previo:iJly fiipulating an adequate com
p.-nfation for anytxtra expense that may he nuafioned there
by.
Note 2. Half an lour Jball be allowed Jar opening
. and closing the Mail at all ijfites v/bare no f articular time
is fpaifei.
Note 3. For evety hour's delay {unwo'dabf?accidents
excepted) ™arriving after the times preferred in any con
tract, the Contrail or Jiiail jorjt.it on*, dollar, and if the as- ?
lay continue until the departure ,«f any aetending Mail, J
whereby the Mails defined [or fitch depending Mail, lose
1 trip, an additional forfeiture of five dollars-/hull be
incurred•
Note 4. Netvfpapers as to ell as Letters are t* be sent
in tie Mails ; and if any ferjbn making proposals deft res j r
to carry ne ivf upers other than those conveyed in the wail,
for his uivn em)!uwent y he mufl Jlate in his propfals for 8
tuhcit sum he iviil cirry it ivitb that emolument and far ti
it'bat futk without thai emolument. v
■A'ote 5 l Should any perfin making propofuls deftre an ei
alteration of th•* Hints of arrival and departure above Jpc- o
cifedy be bitrt flats in Lis propofuls th: alterations defirej, n
an i the difference they iviU /pake in the terms of hu c»n - g
trail. 2
Note 6. Perfens mating proposals are deJirSi to Jlate c;
their prices in gross by toe ye*r, and hot by the rnilttf J
Tbofe luho contract ivill receivs their p<ty qm:rt^rly i j t
the months of January, April, July and &hiber, if? n
drafts on the p»fl offices m the route and in ban/, notes., \
Note 7 The contracts are to be in operation on tbf jirfl
day of April next, and continue for foitr years, until
the day of Alar .b in daftve, in the year 1802.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Po/i-MaJler General. t i
General Post Office, "> n
Philadelphia, December 18, I 797* 3 0
tuthtatviftj v
New Ailembly Room,
South Fourth Greet, between Chefnut and Walnut f
Greets.
Mr, FRANCIS,
OF THE NEW-THEATRS, t!
RESPECTFULLY informs his scholars and the
public in general, that his Academy" for Danc
ing will commence, for the season, on Thursday, -
December I }, at the above
ELEGANT ROOM ;
When he hopes to receive the continuance of their
accustomed patronage, which it will be his unre- t
mitting endeavor to deserve. a
The days of teaching for his young pupils are I
Thurfjays and Saturdays, from 3 o'clock in the i
afternoon till 6, and from 6 till 9, for thofi of a e
more advanced age. . . . 1
As an accommodation to thnfc living in this vi
cinage, Mr Fran'cis iijfends to inftrud afmall '
party of children on Wednesday and Friday after-
noons, at his house.
DiftinA from the Prr-Siling Balls, Mt. FtANCU j
will have four private feleift Subscription Ball*. (
Private teaching, either at the Academy, or his ]
house. i
Mr. Francis's firft PraSifing B,iH will be on ,
Tuesday, 19th Dee. at the New Assembly Reom. ,
Ladies and Gentlemen's tickets to be had, cy (
Applying to Mr. F. as ufuil. i
For further particulars, enquire of Mr. F. No. 1
70, north Eighth (Ireet. Dec. 11 —mwltf 1
Imported in the brig Eliza, 1
Cctpt. HAsTiE,/rom Bourdeaux ;
Claret ih Cases of a very superior -quality,
White Sauterne Witie in Cases,
Olive Oil in bafcets of iz bottles each.
White and coloured Kid Gloves,
do. do. Silk do.
A few pipes of Bordeaux Brandy,
■lFor Sale by
JAMES LATIMER, jun.
71, South Wharves.
Who has also for Sale,
A few <jr. Caf.cs OW Sherry Wine.
Dec, t. <>»"
~lFor Sale by the SubTcriber,
10 balesCofl'as
40 do. Ba&es
11 do. Mamoody
17 do. Chinifc
7 do. Tookery
t do. Gomhi
1 r do. Moragungees
3 do. Check 9tripe«
I do. Guzzie
I box Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
Zj pipes fineft particular Maduira Wine, of
the vintage 1795.
MORDECAI LEWIS.
December 5. 3aw4W
Thomas Randall,
PRESENTS his refpe&s to his Friends, and the
Public in general, informs them that he hasopenad
an Office, at his house, No. B§, Spruce street, for
1 the purpose of tranfaSing business in the line of
■ Cemmiflion and Agency, collecting rents and out
■ (landing claims in any part of the United States.—
He flatters himfelf, that from hit long reCdsnce in
1 this country and a general knowledge of it, hisfer
cicw will be found worthy the notice of those who
may please to confide to him the management of
ahy of their concerns.
' N- B. Security given where required.
llthmos-4 3tawtf
City of Wafliiogcon.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
' For the Improvement *f the. Federal City.
A magnificent tlwelliog-houft aOjOCO dollars,
■ k caih 30,000, »re 50,000
1 ditto 15,000 & caflt i 5,00» 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & cafli 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cafb 10,000 10,000
1 ditto j,OOO At cash 5,000 10,000
' 1 ditto j,OOO & cafl) 5,000 10,1)00
1 calh p-izc of 10,000
% do. s,oooeach, • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 • - 10,00 c
»o do. 500 - - 10,000
t 00 do. 100 - - 10,000
'< aoo do. so - • 10,00 c
' 400 do. »5 ' - io,ood
1,000 do. 40 - ao,ooo
' 15,00* do. 10 - f5«,ooo
r Priies.
• 33>»6i Rlank*.
50,000 Tickets, »fßright DotUrs, 400,000
•> N. B. Tofsvour those who may take a quan
-5 tity of.Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
- the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
1 but oni :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
1 mon«y or prizes, in ten days after drawing, v.-ill
• be received for any numbej not lefsthan 30 tick
» ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen as
' tbc private buildings to be crusted in tlie City ol
Washington—Two beautiful deligns are already
j ieleiled for the entire fronts on two of the publir
squares; from these drawings it is proposed to erect
t two centre atid 'our corner buildings, as soon aspof
t fibleUtter this lottery U fold, and to convey them,
- when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ir
: the manner described in the scheme for the Hotei
Lottery. A nett deduttien of five per tent, will
• be made to defray the expenfes of pnnt
• kig, &c. and the surplus will be made a Pitt of
• the fund intended for the National Uiriverfftj'! tp
' be erected within the city of Washington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the paymoot of the
j Prizes, are held by the President and two Dircil
■e ors of the Bank of Colombia, and are valued at
- more than half the amount of thelettery.
SAMUEL lILODGET.
.§, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Co"l»m
---j bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Feter
- Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
•and of Richard W*Us, Cooper's Ferry. mwf
A farm for Tale, "
}N Ptith Amboy ui the ftite of New-Jersey,
of four hundred a-res, including a proper
proportion of meadow, of arable and wood
land, and fait marlh : There i? on the premises,
a good orchard, and a variety of other
fruit it is well watered with fprirgs and
bronik,, it is bounded on two fides with navi
gable waters and has a good mill Cte, its iitua
tion is healthy and pleasant, commanding a
view of the navigation of Perth Amboy and its
environs, and convenient to the fineft fi(h and
ovliers in their proper season, it abounds with
natural manure from which, with the advanta
ges of the fait marsh by applying the haythere
trpin to the keeping of stock, may at a small
expense, be enriched f(J a great degre£ and Ten
dered une of the firft grazing farms in th<i state ;
it is well calculated for a fifrmer or a gentle
man's feat, having several eligible fires for
building. This farm will be fold together or
divided, as may suit a purchaser, at private
l'ale, or if riot fold, wlllbefet up at public auc
tion on Tuesday the nineteenth day o£ Decem
ber ne<t, at the house of Raiert Rattoone, inn
keeper in Perth Amboy, at eleven o'clock in
the forenoon. Any person inclining topurchale
may view the premife9 by application to John
or Mnttbia: Hal/fed at Perth Amboy, fron#
whcm or from ttie Hon. "Jonathan Dayton, Esq.
speaker of the house of representatives of the-
United States now in Philadelphia, from Mat- t
thias Willmmfon,]mi. efq. or Mr. Samuel Smith
at Elizabeth-Town further Information may be
obtained, —and who are poflcfled of maps of
the fame.
Perth Amboy, Nov. 16, 1797.
15 —eodtißD
Salisbury Estate.
r P , HE Subscriber, proposing to contra# his bufi-
X ness, atf«rs this Estate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it arc ortc Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grid
Mil), with two pair ot #ones ; allo-a good Forge, ail
in perfeft repair, as are all the Water Works connect
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built (or the purpose of calling Caonoft *
for this State.—There are nboti' twp thousand acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, theotbeA
vefry fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
I'alluie. The Cannon lately mantifa£tured there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
iuperior to any in thi* country, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not one of lixtjunine gwns
iatcly made, although some of the 24 were bored
into 32 pounders, have faiWd on proving. The file-,
auon i$ very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufa&ure, and a place of arms lying in the ttate
of Conne&icut, and only 30 miles from several land*
ings on the Hudfon*s river, and having every advan
tage that can icfult fr«in a plenty of water iiTuing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can bf accommodat
ed wiih all the ftoek and ntenfils, and have poflTefiion
on(*r betore the firft of June next, and preparation
may be made in the meantime for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in g#od order, with fomc coal, Ore,. Sec. &e. For
term*, apply to Mr. ]ofeph Anthony, in Philadel
phia ; David Brooks, fcfq. one ol the Reprefentat«ives
in Corgrefs for this State ; Mr, David Wateiman, on
thepremifes, or to the propi iefor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dec, t. gawtf -
House and Lots, in Bordentown.
TO EE SOLD, a handsome two story House.
with the'Lotdn which it is «re<fted, situated
about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The he&fe is forty two
feet front, and in neat order. The lot contain,
one acre, and is one hundred feet on the main
street, and extends with the fame breadth tobank
street. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly four
acres, fepacatcd from the former by back ilreet.
One third only of the purchase money will he re*
quired upon executing a deed, and for the re
mainder, fach credit will be giveu as the purchase
er may chufe. This property will be fold frc« •-
all incumbrances, and an indisputable title giv*nf
p For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William rdiding in Bordentown, near,
the premises, whs will fbew the sam«, or of *
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, r.o. 144, Marliet-flreet.
December ». 3awtf
Real filiate for Sale,
A PLANTATION, in a healthy and good si
• x"i. tuation on Chester Creek, in Middletoi*
Townihip, Delaware County, containing I*9l
acres, upwards of 50 acres of which are wood
land, well timbered ; the remainder plough land
and Watered meadow—of the latter, luany more
acres can be m;*de at a small expence. Thercf are
on laid premises, a good orchard of bed grafted
fruit, a houle, with a spring near the door, a frame
barn with ftabllng under, and a log tenemont on
©nepart of said place.—Any person inclining
to purchase, may view the premife9 by applying,
to Wm. Pennbll, on said farm, and know the
terms by applying to Jonathan Pennell, in the
borough of Chester.
November ax. 3t eed
To be fold,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, u(ith a neat two
' flory brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
0 Orchard, &c. situate 011 the Irilh tradt lane, in the
0 townftip of Moy3mcnDng, about one mile from
0 the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
D be made known upon application at the office qf
0 the Philadelphia Gasette,
0 The improvements upon this place, for tafle and
0 elegance, Hand unrivalled.
c December 1. dtf
0 All Persons who are indebted to
0 the estate of William Heysham, fen. of Phila
o delphia, deceased, art requested to make speedy
o payment; and thofc who have any demands a
-0 gainst said estate, will please to present them, pro
perly attested, to the fubferibers.
William Hey/ham, 1
Robert Hey/ham, > Executors.
Francis B Hives Say re, J
® novembrr 6. 1 aW4 W
LAW BOOKS,
T Latest London and Dublin Editions,
H. Iff P. RICE, Bookjillers, -
:r No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market Ireet,
11 T T AVE juit received by the late arrivals from
11 London and Dublin, thcii spring importa
tion, coilliftingof a variety of the latef£ and fnoft
>f approved Law Books, whhih, added tothofe alrca
dy on hand, forms the mofl oxtenfive colleflion ev
y er offered for sale in thi* couHtry. They thei efore
■r beg leaveto notice, that from the nature of their
SI conneflicnsin Dublin, th.y are enabled to fell Irilh
f- editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowest prices. The following are amoDg the latcit
publioations.
el Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, %
11 Pgake's Cartes at Nisi. Prius ; Ridgewtiy's Rejorts
> in the time #f Lord Hardwicka ; floyer's Procters
>f l'ra&ice in the Ecclesiastical Courts; Barton's
Treatise 011 a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Pra&ice of
tke Court of King's Bench in Personal Anions,a
f parts co-mplete ; Ward's Law of Nations; Cruise
1- on Uses ; modern Reports, II vols.London edi
tion,
H. and P. Rics cxpeift t» receive by the Erfl ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
i- Durnford and East's Reports, the 3d part of Gii
:r bert's Law of Evidence by LoSt, anda number of
; r.ew publications.
June 16.