;S^etteof \he ilHltetiStates,& PhiladelpMa BaUy JMertiser^'
*' * «
By John Fznno, at N°" 119 Chejnut Street.
NuMBSJt 1463. J
For Charter, Pcnnf y
N°e«!^
J onN Tsrgis, Ma/ler, following
TOW lying at Albertfon's wharf, Sauth- 1
N wa'k—burthen 3300 barrels, in cnmpleat 1
Jcr to uke in a cargo. 1
tor terms apply to 1
Gurney Iff Smith. Which
May I, $. Cl reroftl
J r — : No. 53 n<
For madeira,
t"t CI • informed
The Sll fame as at
■J." Edward, 1
■<* 7*>ncs It iclt'bam, Majlrr.
TILT, fttil in about Eight days, having
V J three-fourths of her cargo engaged. For j^ 3v j
fre.,;ht or palfage, apply to the captain on ■ „
board, at Stamper's wharf, or the Subscriber. J
John Donnaldfon. An
May J!. sßt '
? . B. Th* Edward is intended to return di- OITUA
rtil to this port, and will take in freight at O of Bu
Madeira. pied by F
For St. Croix;'
w _ .... . j four conv
To fail in eight days, ca
THK BRIG fltuation i
Twins,
Matthew Kseleß, Mailer, thepurch
I'or passage apply to ' ! J,re '
James Tard, '"Mount
on Walnut-street wharf. ot Burlul
' ' av ; Burlinj
■tor falc, Allpei
The fajl failing Schponer Againl
Ydtpm 7\Tl are ret l u
I aieillcj.il, lyatteftel
White-oak frame —built in the an( j those
ila eof Virginia in the year 1796 —37 s ect 3 quested t<
inthes keel, 17 feet 10 inches beam, 8 feet 3 c he Subfc
ixheshold—burthen 90 tons —is said to carry ROBIiR
630 barrels—-completely fitted and ready to re- JOHN 3
ee sea cargo : For further particulars enquire of April
P. >fs and Simfon, No. 121, "South Front-street. r^ o ,
At the J
Now Landing,
At Pratt's wharf, falc,
FROM on board the ship Thomas Chilkley, Q .
C-'apt. Rafer, from Bourdeaux, t" .
p r> LARETincaiks wa ersol
Ditto in cases abVfcm
White Wine Vinegar " ™
Red Skins in bpxes mifeß
For Sale by payment
Rundle <3 Leech. a bi« cred
May li § ofthepr
JOHN CRAIG
"irT AS just imported from Rotterdam, via St.
rl. Jho mas, and for sale on reasonable terms The
V thepaekage, . Thirteen
Fiatiilas Royal y ears t0
I'aerlem and German linens 2 ette.
Uouens A P ril
Post and Pr o Patri 4 Paper
Wafers Ruling
Qti.lls Aij,
Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles
Coffee Bags
He has also for Sale,
Best Red Clover Seed . wh R o^
Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use this Cit
Teneriffe Wine of firft and second Quality efforts, i
Coffee in Bags and Hqgfoeads eaf< » in ;
Jamaica Spirits ' Retherw
Conneilicut Turpentine Soap future ta
Window Glass • . , e " c
Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Cotten
Hosiery ,h e rece]
April 18. iiiflrutte
A pair of Good Black Carriage Horses, ful | y alll
Wiiich may be seen by application at No. ri4, made ol
Spruee Street, between Second and Third. powers
,\Wll. b V art > c
— to that
TO BE S.O LD, provide
A valuable three story Brick House ;
SI rUATE in Lodge alley, next to the bank of co[
Pennsylvania, the lot qn which it stands, to- Thc ,
eethcr with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex- qnertioi
tends to Goforth-ftreet. The houi'e is about 50 eV erij g
feet mfront on Lodgf .alley, aud about 41 feet as the si
in depth, the adjoining lot is about 96 teet relies u
front on Lodge alley, and 41 feet on Gotorth- ever ,0
street,, being a street which leads from Chcfnut- r
street and Carter's alley into Dock-street at the prol
horse market. The haiife consists ot teh lodg- f cr
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dining p 4r t mc
ooms, one of them forty feet in length, the it at ed
other about thirty-four feet, each containing peol ar
two fire plac»s, two parlours and a large kit- already
chen, with exrenlive cellars under, and garrets and fui
over Jhe wholes privilege of a vacant lot >1" ho,
of ground to the eastward between this houle t ' ui h
and the bark, a pump of excellent water in the «
vc.rd, a handsome piazza fronting the vacant c ,J n
lot, and a frame stable and dwelling house on Nov
Goforth-ftreet. The premises now rent for
£.318 per annum. To be fold clear ot nil in
cumbrances. , Ath
For terms apply to y&bn Clement Stoeker.
April so 3* wtf OIT
TEAS, 5at si
A FEW cfcefls of Imperial, Ilyfon Skin and pump
Souchong Teas ot a superior quality for derne
sale at the Itore of the fubferiber, the north- up, tl
weft corner of Market an<fThird«ftrects. culatt
Patent Shot.
ALSO, . ,ml
A laree CELLAR to be let at a very low rent, f"' l a
• Enquire as above of RICHARD WISTAR.
April 29. ftuictlum
• Important Public Document.
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED, I*7,
And for Sale Ma
At the Office of the Editor ol'the Gazette of the
United States,
No. tig A gel
[met exit fcoLLAa amd rirTr ctm] nut-f
A FEW COPIIS OF THE JW
Receipts and Expenditures
OF THE UNITED STATES,
For tie Yejr 1795> nf ,
Being the t>ATt st Period to whiih an account *Jt 1
c.'» be made up. 1 • 99'
irehrnar) it. $• | A I
L PHILADELPHI A: WEDNESDAY EVENING, MAT 17, 1.797.
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany. \X
"VT° tic P '» hereby given to the Sharehold- J
lN ers, that a further affelTment of fifteen <-
dollars u levied each fhare> payable in the ,ic 1
following instalments —viz. ' lc
One quarter immediately.
One quarter on the ift of June.
One quarter ou the ift September. * nt -
One quarter on the ill Dec. next. | or
Which they are requested to pay to the Trea- ,n '
surer of the Company at the Company's Office,
No. 5.1 north Fourth street, agreeably to the 13 2
times above mentioned ; and they are further am<
informed that on their negledling to pay the »
fame as above the several forfeitures ro,>
direfted by the Constitution, willl be exadled.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, and
, - Treasurer.
Mav 15
• * •* __ lor
TO BE SpLD, bar
And pofleffion given immediately, ]
A Lot of Land ; mu
(SITUATED in Mount-Holly, in th; county ie "
0 of Burlington, in New-Jersey, lately occu- w ,
pied by Francis Bullus, Esquire, upon which ara
an ext;eVent brjck house, two (toties high, with ,c
four convenient rooms on each floor, also a good
frahie, carriage house and other buildings. The
fftuation is valuable for business of any kind, and '' u
at least equal to any other in the town.
' "ljie terms of payment will be made eaiy to
the purchaser. Apply to William Roflell, Esq.
uire, John Perry, or Richard Coxe, merchants,
in Mount-Holly or to the Subfcnber, in the city
of Burlington. "]\
JOSEPH M'ILVAINE. .j_\
Burlington, 27th April May s—s3W5 —$3W gli
All persons who have any demands
Against the estate of John Finlay, deceased, an
are requested to exhibit their accounts proper
ly attelted on or before the 20th of May next — th
and those who are indebted to faideftate are re- a tl
quested to make immediate payment to either of q\
the Subfcrtbers.
™™i E^ DERS ° N, l AimMHrators *?>
JOHN M'CARA, j tic
April 26. *3 aw 3«r. t ; t
To be Sold at Public Vendue, u *
At the Merchants' Coffee house, in Philadelphia, J '
on the 15th day of June, at 8 o'clock in the
evening, if not before disposed of at private
falc,
40,931 1-2 acres of land, on the j.
waters of Wheeling and Fishing creeks, in Wash- fe
ington county, Pennsylvania. The foil is .remark- j u
ably fertile ; andbefides a large body of meadow, w
there are considerable improvements on the pre cr
mifea. These lands were patented in 1787. On j a
payment of part of the purchase money, a reason- a[
able credit will be given for the residue. Enquire ti]
of the printer.
Ma Y IJ- 1 $ tS v;
TO BE SOLD, 1
The time of a likely NEGRO 801 , p
Thirteen years of and has about fourteen
years to ftrvc. Enquire at the cvf this ga
zette.
April 27* - 'ifr $
SWAN N'S J
Riding School, Horse Academy & Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street.
T, SWANN
R ETURNS his finccte thanks to those gentlemen by
whom he has been employed, during his residence in
this City, and flatters himfelfthat the success ot his
efforts, in the numerous, obflinate and dangerous dif- j
cases in Horses, in which he has been cnnfulted, to
• getherwith his moderate chsrges, will secure their
future favors andrecßmmendatton.
He now begs leave to inform them ar.dthe public
n at large that his spacious and commodious premises,
ereflcd for the purpoles above described are open for
the reception of pupils of either sex, who with 10 be
iiiflru£ted in the Art of Riding, and the right method
of governing their hoifes, io as to ride them with .
tafe elegance, and fafety—their horses will be care
fully and expeditioully broke, forevery purpofe,and
t, made obedienfto he will of the riders; the natural 1
powers which are Ihut up in them, will be unfolded
by art, calling forth uniformity of motion, and giving
to that noble animal ail those beauties of adtion which
providence has so bountifully bellowed on them.
Also, at his hospital, every diforoer to which the
1 horse is liable will be treated according to the rules of
art, confirmed by long and repeated experience.
t The utility of the above inftitotion has never been •
x " "qneftioned, that it has long been wanted in this city, I
i° e verij gentleman's stud willmanileft, and T. Swann !
et asthe fiilleitahlilher of theveterenaryatt, foliciti and
et relies upon the fuppoitof that public (which he is
h- ever anxious in fetving) to enable him to bring it to
• t . perfeftion. The idea of a fubfeription for that pur
pose has beeu hinted by feveial gentleman, who wilh
to promote the inflitution —the amount of each sub-
fcription to be returned by services in any of the de
pjrtmeiits-.he profeffes, agreeable to the rate of charges
' ie Hated in his hand bill. . Sucr. now o
ng peo, and the figuatures of many refpeftable gentlemen
it- already obtained. He the'etore injorms hie friends
Cts and fut h Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
| ot the honor of being known, that he shall io a few
jf e days ukcthe liberty of waiting upon them and folici
he tm S their fopport and protection.
N. B. Horses are properly prepared for those La
diesaod Gentlenienwho wilh to be inftrufted.
on Nov- y • nh&f.
' To be Sold,
A three Jlory brick House, with suitable back
er - buildings ;
SITUATE in Viue-ftr;et, No. 83, completely
finifhed, and free ol ground-rent: It has a
neat back yard, in which is a cillcrn, aud new
md pump for rain water—commodious cellars are un
for derneath the whole, in which i< a dry well bricked
th- up, that will hold ice. This property is well cal
culated for a boarding house. For particulars ap
ply at the premises.
Immediate poffefiion will be given, or so as to
. n t. suit a purchaser.
L [{ May 15. 3 awt^
— For Sale,
The time of »n indented Negro Man Servant,
Who h?.« nine years to fcrve , t-'a be well recom
mendcdlcr houeily and fohriety. Enquire at N».
I»7, Chefnut-ftreet.
May if- ( Ut
the To be Let,
A genteel furnifhed Bed Uoom, No. 113, Chef
nut-ftreet.
Mav n ' &"»'
A FhW BOXlin OF
Bologna Saufo^es,
:unt Of 4 superior qmlity, to be geld at No.
199, Smith Fiofttjj3treet.j
4 April so, eotf
... v- f
500 Dollars Reward.
WHEREAS a certain ChriftopherF-Parnell, J
failed from Boston, on or about the 27th
of Oelober lak, in the Hoop Union, with a valua
ble cargo, bound to Baltimore, bin went off to FI
the Weft-Indies where he fold the veflel and llior
cargo. On or about the firft inft. he was appre- M
hended (as a fufpicionscharadler) irilhistown,
and examined before several magistrates, but
for the want of fufficient proof to deteil bim TN
in his villany he was ditcharged. A 1
The fadl is, the said Parnell is a villain, and er,
is attempting to defraud sundry perfoiu to the Pini
amount of 20,000 dollars.
He left this town about the loth inft. he
rode in a chair (painted green) drawn by a grey
mare, and went on the Newbein road, but on
this fide Trenton, took the toad of Fayetteville,
and mod probably is pasting through the back
'pjrt of the state into the wsf.ern c Kintries.
He had when he left this town, upwards of
2000 dollars in gold, and about 7000 dollars in ,
bank notes.
Parnallis a small man, about 30 years of age, j t
much pock-marked, and has Ion.; black hair,
remarkable Imall eyes, and has a down look ,
when fpokea to. :
Whoever will secure the said Parnell, and ''
the money he has with him, and give informa- i
tion to Benj.Williams of Baltimore, John Hogg,
Esq. at Hillfoorough, to Mr. A. Jocelin, of this
town, or to the fubferiber, who is in pursuit of
the villain, shall receive the above reward.
ABfJEH CRAFT.
> Wilmington, (N. C.) April 26* 179 J
Translations. _j
MEMORIALS, advertifemeuti, epistolary, |
and Jothcr writings in French and En
glish, undertaken by Samuel Chandler, M.
translator of Le Moniteur, L'Obfervateur, Les T
' Quatre Fils Aymons, *L'Heroir.e Americain, y
> and many other French authors. ' en ,
S. C. has been in the habit ef corjfpi'.ing for at
' the most approved publicationsjj & oecafionallv Jq
" attending where the hurry of bufinels may re- p e
f quire his immediate .attendance. p a
Encouraged and affilled by gentlemen of tet
abilities, he proposes publishing by fubferip
tion, a work in French and English, by the
title of The American Spe'dator. The profpeft
us may be seen at his lodgings, No. 67, Arch- ,; c
flreet. p U
e ' A P ril 8 7- t tei
To be fold at private sale,
» A TWO story dwelling house and lat of ground
XA- in the city of Burlington, state 0/ New-Jer- '
fey, in a healthy and pleasant fltuation. Th«
house is of brick,containing four good sized rooms,
' with a convenient kitchen and cellar. The lot,
on which is a stable, &c. contain, about an acre of
n land of the best quality, with a £ ant fufficient to
admit two 01 three large houses, 'udependent of
e that part at present occupied by tlh house.
For further particulars enquire iif joseph M'll
_ vaine, Esq. in Burlington, or Jafipli Reed, No
214, High-street, Philadelphia.
May 12. co2w
n Philadelphia and Lancaltet Turn
t pike Company.
_ A meeting of the Stockholders of the Phila
delphia and Lancaller Turnpike Company, will
be held at the Company's Office, on Monday, "|
" 10 o'clock, the I2thjune next. - J
WILLIAM GOVET.T, Sec'ry. ■ g
May 12. fr 4w. ti
Iy Received by the Incloftan, ®
in From Madras, b
i* A SMALL invoice consisting 01 the following b
Jfi. Coall Goods, viz. h
3 " Blue Cloths
Long Cloths, 14 punjums 1
; c Do. do. fi'ie
■ S) Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and ■
or Book Mullins
se WILLING & TRANCIS.
'd . March 27.: saw.
th
S Georgetown Bridge Company.
ral Extrafl of an a£l,paffed by the Legillature of {
ed the state of Maryland on the 29th December, \
r 'S 4791, entitled, "An adl for'ereAing a bridge £
ch over Potowmac river. a
«• And be it enaded, that the said direftors or j
o f any two «f< them shall and may require aliy lum I
or lums of money in equal proportion frdm each <
:cn and every proprietor, as may from time to time t
ty, be neeefiary for carrying on the building of said '
NN bridge; and after giving three months public 1
md notice, it {hall and may be lawful for the direct- ;
i* ors to sue for and recover in the name of the '
to company such unpaid requisition, with all costs '
U I" and charges incidental thereto, and legal interest '
thereon from the time the fame (liould have
"j"' heen paid: And the negleft or rcfufal to,pay any
-g CS such requisition after public not:::e shall have
ro- been given at least for three months in all the
ncn newfpapershereiH before enumerated, shall have
nds the effedt to forfeit all preceding payments made
not on the (hare or shares so negjeiled or relufed to
' ew be paid ta the benefit of the company."
lici- 7 j, e a bovc extraA is published for the infor
mation of fuchcf the fteekholders as have not '
a " complied with the requisitions heretofore made
—they are as follow: Oil the lit "November,
dollars; an the aothjuly, 1796, 40dollars ; on
>ack the ift September, I J96, 40 dollars, and on the
ill November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is
te ]y now gives that after the expiration of the time
l 5 a limited for the continuance of this advertife
ncw ment (three months) the law will be carried
un- into rigid and cornpltte efTedl against all delin
ked quents.
caU By order of the Dire&srs,
i ap- IVALTER SMITH, Treasurer.
Georgetown, May 1, 1797. lawjm
,S tO
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64* South Second-street.
I3fi/ RICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No.», for sale
' This Lottery will positively commence
"no~ drawing the 29th day of May next— CherJ; books
for regifteritjg and examination in this, the City
of Wafhingcon, No. 2, and Paterfon Lotteries
now drawing, are kept—also information where
Ticketsin Walhington, No. a, and Patterfon may
:hef- be had—Tickets in th« Schuylkill Bridge Lottery
for sale at ten dollars each, and as soon as issued,
Ticketsin all the other Lotteries authorized ty the
Legillature of this state will be for sale.
The luWctiberfolicits the appli cation of the pub
lic f»d his frjends who wish to fell bank flock, cer
tificates, bills of exchange or note.*, houses, land.
No. Sec. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
WILLIAM BLACKBURN.
f April 8. Jsw
Printed Calicoes. I
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Cb*fnut'Sir*et t
Have for Safe
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly aflorted, very low on
fliort credit.
March 6.
JttJi Imported,
IN the (hip W uodrop Sims, Capt. Hodjrfon,
from Canton, and far sale by the Siibkrib
er, at Mrs. Ki; *fz, corner of Second and A
P.ne-ftreet,
Hvfon
Hyson Skin (Teas all fielh Snd of _J
Young Hyson and T excellent quality.
Gunpowder J
Alio,
A few Nankeens.
C. HaKHT.
April 17 dif
Wanted to hire,
In the city of Philadelphia or neighborhood, Chi
~A Malt-house and Brewery.
For further particulars please apply to the
Printer hereof.
May 5.
Just received,
And for sale by Ilaac Harvey, jun. No. 5, South rr
Water-Ureet,
A parcel of prime Rice; also,
Trinidad and Cayenne Cotton
Coffee in Barrels and Bags .
Spanilh Hides and Beef. •
4th mo. 95, 1797. d4W
William Hay don,
Drawing Majler, from London ;
WHERE he studied several years under one
of the mod eminent mailers in that sci
ence. He attends young ladies and gentlemen
at their rtfpeflive houses. His terms are fix
dollara per month for attendance three times
per week; likewise all kind of ornamental
painting, fruit, flowers, &c. taught on the above T
terms. Pa
A line direfled to W. Haydon, No. 16, Pear
street, will be immediately attended to. By
W. H. flatters himfelf his terms will be par
ticularly advantageous, where there are several
pupils in the fame family ; as he makes no al
teration in his terms if there arc two or three
to teach in one family. B1
May 9. diw
Genteel Boarding and Lodging E
In an airy part of the City.
■ Apply at No. 68, North Eighth-flreet.
; May ia. dlw
' Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for fait by John Morton, No. 116, South
l'ront-ftreet,
Hyson ' }
Hyson Skin Ctcac
Young Hyson Tt AS > "J
Imperial J
April 20. eotf
Maurice ivloynihan, l
No. 81, North SecondJlreet, ]
1 A few doors above Arch-street,
> TNFORMS his friends and the public,that he h; i s p,
A for wholesale or retail, on the lowest terms, a
general affortmeht of Queen's Ware, gilt and cut _
tumbflh's, plain and flowered quart, pint, half pint ,
~ gill and half gill do. exaA measures, decanters and
wine glasses ; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint
bowls, and china in "sets and separate ; pocket j
g bottles: Schuyikill and Jersey country quart and
half gallon bottles ; Dry Goods, &c. &c,
N. B. Crates put up with care at the no- a
ticc-
May 11 c'tf a
■
Lancaster, Harrijburgh, Carlijle, I
Sstppcnfburg and Sunbury
S T A G E' S.
THE public are requested to take notice, that
the partnership which has for some time ful -
'f fitted betwesa Mathias,Slough of Lancafttr, and _
William Geer, is now dissolved ; bat, not as M. p
e Slough insinuates to the public without jull cauf.';
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fuh
>r je(Sl from M. Slough t. W. Geer, dstted>_rhe
n December last. a recital of which in not now deem
h ed necessary. Any gentleman wh6 wilhes to be
ie more cireumftantially inf.rmed of the merits of
id this business, by applying to W. Geer may have '
i c the perusal of M. Slough'* letter, and'then can be
t. at ftrll liberty to determine whether or not W. '
le Geer is not perfeiSlly juftifiable in attaching him- '
felf to any other person in the proft cution of the '
Stage conveyance from Philadcljihia to Shippenf- '
t . e urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the 1
public were pleased to confer on th&firfl effort in
' C this business, V! illiam Geer, in cofljun&ion with
Meifrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
''f to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at-,
tcntion anddifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lie can poflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
>r " with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance tu
ot render the paflage fafe and commodious, inform
those wnn wilb to patronize and encourage the
:r, undertaking, that they can take their feats at
40 George Weed's, the figll of the White Horse,
on Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
he and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
is Carlisle and Shippenfbihg. 'l'he fare as hitherto .
me ellablilhed.
ife- For the further ol the public,
ied a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
in- of Samuel Elder, in Harrilburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
and return from theece aud arrive at Hatrifb.urg
every Saturday, so that' passengers destined for
Lancaller or Philadelphia, may proceed om Mon-
S ' WILLIAM GEER.
Laniafter, Jan. 27, 1797-
N. B. This Line ef Stages ftartM from the
house of William Fen «*e, in Lancaitcr, on every
falc Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ncc ceeding to the westward;- and from the house of I
°ks Mr> Samuel Elder in HaYrrfburg every Wednef-
Xty day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
r"-s trick Cochran's in Shippenlburg, and returns
iere f rom thence en every Tharfday : performing the
fame routine daily as ill its tour from Philadel
tcr>' phia. mwf
Lied,
thr - For Sale,
ml,. At th;s
Cl r . ' No. 119 Ch/fnutftreet,
and, A few copies of a late Report of a Committee
of the Seriate, on the fubjc& of the
/. GEORGIA LANDS.
w yar',h ij $
['VCL'JME XI.
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST « id pr<»f,
Oin, of 4th: proof, in pi.' i
Jamaica Spirit*, 4th proof, in Hhd«
Ofd Hook, in cales of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-piius
Window Glass, in boxes, of UilTerent l:z«
Hazlrmits, in forks
Whiting ~V
C-oppcris ( . ... ,
White Lead hhd *
& Spanilh Brown J
l - 'cr Silt bv
PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 $.
Just arrived,
In the brigs Twins and Famr,
A quantity of Havanna and St. Croix
Sugars,
Of the firft quality.
—ON HAND, —
Choice JAMAICA SPIRITS* St.Croix UUM
James Yard,
On Walnut-fireet Wtoarf.
. May 3 r* lor
& otice.
April 3<?. 1797.
THE Managers of the Canal Lottery, No.
11, an uounce to the public, that the
drawing will positively commence on the twen
ty-ninth of May next. Tickets to be had of
either of the managers, and at theCjnal Office.
Wm. MOORE SMITH, Set'y.
April 3 mth, fa9thM
This Day is Publi/ljecl,
Price 25 Cents,
By JOHN ORMRO D,
NO. 41 CU2SNUT-STREIT,
A Discourse,
Delivered on the aad of February*, 1*97,
At the FUNERAL of
The Rev. GILBERT TENNENT SNOWD2N,
Pallor of the Preibyterian Church of Cranberry,
in the Stats of New-Jersey,
By the Rev. SAMUEL £7AN HOPE SMITH ..
D.D. President of th« College of New Jersey
March 11 5
This Day is Published,
3Y Mess« Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice,«ftod jhe
other Booksellers,
rice One DoHar and twenty-five cents,
Elegantly printed on Wove paper, and Hot•
prtjfed,
By Jolm Thotnpfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh* Constitution, and
clalTing together their most important provisions,
under the several heads of administration; tvita
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congrcfs of the
United States.
Dedicated to the Peopie of the United States.
N. B. A lew Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof. a dollar.
February 6 mwf
Notice.
AGREEABLY to charter, is hereby given
to the members of "The Co:portion
for the relief of poor and diftrefled Picibyterian
Ministers, and of the poor and diitrcfled widows
and children of Preibyterian Ministers," that
a meeting of. laid corporation wiii be hoiden
- in the fecondPrefbyterian church in the city of
Philadelphia, on the 23d inrtant, at 4 (o'clock,
P. M. for the dispatch of all such bufin fs as
may then be brought before the Board.
ASHBEL GREEN,
t Sec'ry of the Corporation. •
i May K $
THE holders of Robert Morris and John Ni
cholUn's notes and acceptances, deposited as
collateral fecuritiesfor the engagements of Edward
Fox and JamesGreenleaf, are requelUd to
I TAKE NOTICE
f That the fubferibers, at the request ard by the
e authority oi the holders of near nine tenths ol the
s amount of the papoc above alluded to, have receiv
ed from George Simpfon, Efq an affignmtnt of the
_ truii under which the said notes and acceptances
are secured, together with all the deeds and obli
•_ gations thereunto attached—therefore any applica
tion tor sale of any part of iaid propertyis to Lc
e made to THOMAS W-FRANCIS,
„ HENRY PRATT,
h JOHN MILLER, jan.
d • JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
J. March ». m&th f
d o .CLARET .. >
II „ OF THE
>a . Vintage of 1792,
In cases of 24 and 30 bottles each,
e > FOR SALE BY
ly - BUNDLE y LEECH.
March 29 mwftf
c, COLD AND SILVER
bullion.
ly, r T"'HE highest price in ready money will be gi
rg A. ven for gold or iilver bullion, old gold or
or silver, or gold dust, at No. 29, North Seventh
n- flreet.
April 20 caw6w
, he Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
r> Company i
r ": Mayljl, 1797.
°l THE STOCKHOLDERS
, ~ T I7HO are in arrears for any fumsdueon their
rnj V V refpedive fliares, are requested to pay the
, fahie. ■
WILLIAM COVETT, Trcafurer.
10 1114W
Mr. Pickering's Letter to Gen.
Pinckney.
tee A few copies of the above interesting paper,
a iy be had at the office ol the Gazette of the U
ftited States.
J May 13 J
. &
' or
h-Philadelphia, May 17,
tyierssting correspo.xdence,
X ELATIVE TO Tltl AFFAIRS OF
FRANCE and THE UNITED STATES.
The fcllutviig. correftandence, eomprifing the
rnnji i mportaht of the ducumtnts contained in
the President's message to Ccngrefs of I Qt/j
'January lafl, if perused with candor and
attention, mtifi fatisfy every independent A
merican of the sincere, aSive anil unceasing
efforts of our government t> maintain invio
late the rights of France, refullingfrom the
duties of neutrality, the lazu of nations and
cxifling treaties t undmofl completely vindicates
cur nation from the unjufl reproachet and
' complaints of the French Directory and its
agents.
' A government which required only a I'.now
" ledge ut the TRUTH to juflify jtf meal'urcs, couU
•' not but be anxious to have this (ully and frankly
" difplayeA"
FXISIDENT'S MESSAGE, JAN. 19, '9*.
Letter from Mr. Randolph to Mr. Fatichct.
_ ( Continued from Monday's Gazette.)
' lie firit part of your fifth allegation,
which implies VThnt the United States quit
" the neutrality which they profefs by sub
" fenbing through an excels of clrcumfpec
" lion (management) to an order, like the
proclamation" has been jult anticipated.
F» the second part, which affcrts that we also
quit the neutrality, which we profefs by
heing unable to maintain our treaties we an
(■.ver that although to the best of our ability
and understanding we have maintained our
treaties, yet if any occasional or real inability
h?s been (hewn this cannot be ttansformed
into a renunciation of neutrality. Prove to
us that this supposed inability has sprung
from an unfriendly motive ; that it has not
beon infeparablc from the infancy and situa
tion of our government ; that it could have
been remedied by'any expedient at our com
mand, except war or reprisal or the fore
runners of both ; then and not till then, will
it be incumbent upon us so to account for it
further. •' I hat wc have been obliged to
" abandon our relations exclusively to Eng
" land" (as in the third place you have af
firmed* is a question of fadl between us.
We deny it. l'he American navy cannot
yet dispute the ocean ; but American rights
have not been relinquilhed. Of the time,
mode, and ftyleofinforcing them, the United
States are thefole judge.
1 liroughout your letter, you have dispers
ed allufionsto the late treaty of the United
States with Great Britain. To this, as to
a centre, the whole series of your observa
tions has tended, and we arc taught from one
passage at last, to view it as a prelude to re
prefentatiorrs, which you meditate to the
French republic.
That treaty has been communicated from
the department of State, only to the chief
magistrate of the Union. But it will not be
conceived, that reasons peculiar to the cafe,
caused their reserve. We were acquainted
with no duty towards foreign nations, which
/hould lead us to infringe the usage of sus
pending the publication of treaties, until the
ratifications have been exchanged ; or to im
part tethern more than has been already im
parted to tbe committee of public fr/ety in
i'ranee by our envoy in- London through
our minister in Paris. Yes, Sir, you fay,
that you demand justice only : justice you
shall have ; and 1 repeat in the name of the
President the promises, which I admjt my-'
felf to have often made to you, that our i
treaties with France ftjall be sacred. No
ration upon earth can controul our will, un
less preceeding engagements be violated. To
save the rights of the French republic was
an ultimatum in the initru&ions to our en
*oy : the President and Senate are the final
arbiters whether the treaty (hall exifl. It is
with tbem to pronounce,with whom treaties
shall be made, and upon what terms ; -they
will doubtless move under the awful tefponfi
bility attached to the guatdianfhip of nation- j
al honor, faith and independence*
Tile President is willing to fuperadd any
orders, which can with propriety be expedled
from him, for the execution of our treaties
with France } if any such can be suggested
beyond those already given. Every charge
which] can be brought against the govern
ment, we (hall meet at the proper fealon, and
-in the armour of political integrity. We
confide that the wisdom and magnanimity of
the French republic which refitted past ma
chinations to disturb our harmony, will re
ceive with caution suspicions, which may
hereafter be thrownon our fidelity. For her
happiness we pray, and may our connexion
be perpetual.
1 have the honor to be,
Witb the greatest refpeft and esteem,
Sir,
Your most obedient servant.
EDMUND RANDOLPH.
[TRANSLATION-]
Joseph Fauchet, Minister Plenipotentiary of
the French Republic r.eartbcUnitedStates,
to Mr. Randolph, Secietary of State of
the United States.
Phdadelphia, tbe toth Pratrial, year
of the French Republic, one and indivi
sible, (Bth June, 1795.)
SIR,
Yonr letter of the 29th of May was re
ceived by me oa on the zd inft. The differ
ent fubjefts therein dii'cuffed, meriting ihe
most ferioui consideration, I have taken some
time to prepare an answer which I (ball now
with all the caador the fubjett requires.
In the fit ft place I (hall observe, that
in writing my letter of the id of May in
coofequence of a croud xf cbmpfainto which
were brought to me, I had not proposed to
myfelf a plan so extensive as that you have
pursued in'your difpatcb. It is observed that
in order to give a motive for the conduit of
the Executive io every circuraftance that
might infringe the infereft of France, you
have united under a single view my former
and my present reprefentatioos. I (hall now 1
ctnmunicalc to you, freely, what tbe whoL' 1
of your letter appears to e. force the re
flexions its objedk has otherwise suggested.
What, Sir, is in quellion between us, and
tipon what can we reft our difcuflions ? Up
on the prescriptions of poGtive rentrafls or
tfce genera! laws of nations. France being
in a (late of war, considers America as" a neu
tral and an allied power. In the fir ft situa
tion (lie has rights common to all the bellige
rent powers ; in the second (he has particular
rights which (he is entitled to by treaties,
Bnd which America can allow her without
cealing 10 be ntutral. If therefuie, on the
one hand, positive engagements giving us
right to certain privileges have been neglefl
etS or execwed with indifference ; if on the
other certain rights cemmon to all are be
come doubtful as. to us, by too much moder
ation in regard to the adls of other powers ;
I would fay if you* neutrality has been re
drained by their arbitrary decilions, my com
plaints have been founded : for it is that to
which they have been 'educed ; they relt
upon fatt alone : and I require it to
be observed that I have hitherto avoided
touching ihe latter point, and that latterly 1
have spoken on it with all Jhe'circumfpeftion
and regard that could be desired, although
my inftruflions oblige me constantly to alk
what weafures the United Stales take for the
efficacious support of the neutrality of their
flag.
After having reviewed the different parti
cular cases upon which I hare compiaiaed,
permit me to give an opinion whifh has
weight with Jse, -which is, that it is impofii
ble for me among the conftrudions given to
that part of the treaty to discover the inten
tion of the two contrasting parties. By the
treaty of alliance, France relinqui/hed her for
mer neighboringpoffeffions to the northward of
the United States in which Jhe had parts of
great convenience during her wars. By the'
treaty of amity and commerce signed the
fame day, fne conceived that (he assured to
herfelf some advantages as an indemnification
in the ports of the United States themfelv>«
of wbich (he had in part deprived her ene
mies. This latler treaty has never said that
there (hould be given an asylum to capturing
vejfels coming with their prizes, it fays that
asylum (hall not be given to any vejet having
made prizes. Permit me, Sir, 10 (ay that
this is not a cottflruaion but an addition whith
you give to the treaty, which are different
things. According to this addition it were
fufficient when I complain of the repairs
made to the Thetis, to reply that (he had a
right to them.
From these forced conftru&ions it refuhs
that the belligerent powers raise pretentions
which were not looked far,and acknowledge
themselves that the meauing of our treaties
appear to them obfeure. The correspond
ence which took place on this fubjeft be
tween you and the minister of Great Brit
ais, is very important to confuk on this
point. Have not you yourfelf been struck
with this avowal of Mr. Hammond, that the
treaty fpecifies only the conduft to be obser
ved towards the capturing vessels, and fays no
thing if tbe prizes ? What trouble had you
in urging your conftru&ion when you an
swered him—" I hope, Sir, that you will
not interpret the article so literally as to pre
tend that it refufes asylum -to capturing vef
feels, for it exclude* ever y veflel which (hall
have made prizes of the French," without
doubt, .ur, that is fhf true conftru&ion, eve
ry thing becomes clear when that is main
tained ; the capturing vessel as well as her
prize are not admitted into your ports.
As to the reft, Sir, as have observed,
a difference of opinion "between the agent of
a power and the government to which he is
sent, is not by any means conclusive. I ad
e.re , w ' t k a '' m y heart, with you, to the
principles contained in the part of Mr. Jef.
ferfon's letter which you cite ; but I obfervc
that there i 3 no reason to make me the re
proach you seem to infinnate. I ought to
infill on my manner of -conftruffion, and pre-
it to you under all its forms as long as
you do not inform me that the President can
not admit my observations. Now you have
done so, I (hould content myfelfwith referr
ing them to the French government.
(To be continued.)
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OE REPRESENTATIVES,
Teufday, May 16.
Mcffrs. Coit Varnum, Williams, Dent,
Harnlpn, Hartley and Baldwin, appeared
from the minutes to be the newly clefted com
mittee of Elections.
l'ourneig members, via. Messrs. Schure
man and Silinickfon, from New-Jersey ; Mr.
Sumpter, from S. Carolina, and Mr. Trigg,
from Virginia, were qualified and took their
feats.
A message from the Senate informed the
houle that they had appointed the Rev.
Biftiop White as their Chaplain, to inter
change weekly with the Chaplain to be ap
painted by that house.
Mr. Sitgreaves wished that the chuGngof
a Chaplain for that house might be the order
of the day for to-morrow.
Mr. Macon believed it was not necessary
that any notice (hould be given for the
purpnfe ; it might be the order for any day
on which the gentleman chose to bring for
worrl the fubjeft.
The Speaker said the notice-was not nectf
fary, but was not improper to be given.
(t being near twelve o'clock, the Speaker
observed, that it had been usual on similar
occasions to the present, to fend a message to
the Senate,to inform them that the House is
now ready to attend them in receiving the
communication of .he President, agreebly to
his appointment ; such a message was agreed
to, and sent accodingly.
Soon after the menkbers of the Senate
entered, and took the feats assigned them j
and a little after twelve, the President of the
United Slates entered, and took the chair of
the Speaker (which he vacated on the en
trance of the Senate, the President and Clerk
of the Senate bemg placed on the right hand
of the Chair, and the Speaker of tbe House
of'RepnkbUtifees and the Clsik oiiiLe left).
After lining a moment, he ipl'e, and deliver
ed the following Speech :
(See Tejlerdafs Gazette,)
Having concluded his Speech, after pre
fentinga copy of it to Prefidcnt of ihe Sen
ate, and another to the Speaker of the
of Hepreleniativcs, the Prcfident retired, as
did alio the members of the Senate ) and the
Speaker having resumed I.is Chair, he read
the Speech : After which, on motion, it
was ordered to be committed to a committee
of the whole to morrow. Adjourned.
For the Gazette of the United States.
MR. .FENNO,
■ WHILE lam writing, the state of things
may be so much changed, in the European
world, that a compleat and correfpemdent
change will be necessary in the United
States. It must, therefpre, be kept in
mind, that I write with special reference
to the present appearance of Europe.
In my communication which was pub
lished in your paper of Monday, Bth inft.
I alked the question, " What benefit is pro
posed by fending an envoy to France ? For it
'will certainly be acknowledged, unless
some good can be fairly deduced from the
mcafure,Ahe propriety of its adoption will
at least be doubtful.
Etiquette, it is said, requires it, and
why ? JJecaufe an Envoy Extraordinary
was sent to Great-Britain in 1794.
, If the difference of circumstances is not
understood, and a clear diltinftion between
our lituation then and no-M, is not acknow
ledged, I must confefs my intelleft must be
disordered, and my discernment gone. I
think a part of the difference in circum
stances has been pointed out in the com
munications I have made; and that the
fyltem adopted by the French government,
which is manifeft from all their late as well
as fornter proceedings, is incompatible
with any benefits which may or can be ex
peftcd to arise from the million contempla
ted. In addition to the existing state of
things, lince I began these papers, the
French government, or rather the Directo
ry, have publiihed a decree, in confirma
tion and extension of their former system.
They have, by this decree, modified the
treaty of France and the United States of
Feb. 6, 1778, with that of Great-Britain
and the United States of 1794, commonly
called Jay's Treaty, so as to place to their
own benefit the whole and every part of
each; and after having thus modified them,
without consulting any other party, have
ordered " this Treaty," as they emphati
cally stile it, to be inserted in the bulletin
(or Journal) of the laws.
Take a candid view of their whole con
duft, and what does it ftgnify to talk of
etiquette ? Every body knows, that mere
form or ceremony in diltinftion from sub
stance, is meant by the word " etiquette."
Can the mere form of Envoy Extraordina
ry produce m the French government a to
tal overthrow of their whole system, as it
refbefts the United States ? Will they
make us compensation for the piracy com
mitted on our trade, and peaceably give
up all their highfounding claims upon us,at
the fight of this magical Envoy ? Such a
beliefborders so strongly on ilonfenfe, that
I cannot believe any man of information
entertains an idea, of the kind. Will the
French government abandon the warmest
with of their hearts,to destroy the commerce
and navy of G. Britain, if we fend them
an Envoy > The objeft ofG. Britain in their
depredations on our commerce in '93 and
'94, was to starve France ; this they were
forced to abandon, as untenable by the law
of nations; and this they gave up—in the
compromise effefted by Jay's treaty.} But
this was far enough from being the result
of etiquette on the part of Great-Britain.
The objeft of the French government is
to destroy the commerce, of Great-Britain,
and to make all the neutral nations in Eu
rope, and the United States, subservient
to this objeft. And the events of war
abroad, or internal changes at home, and
not etiquette, must change them in this
darling objeft.
Do not the French complain of our
Treaty with G. B. as- not only an injury
to them generally, but as a special breach
of the 17th article of their treaty with us ?
In this point of view, an Envoy cannot be
serviceable, but with powers to ftiape this
btifinefs to their liking—this can as well
be effefted by Mr. Pinckney.
Is the French Direftory capable of form
ing one or more treaties into such lhape,
as perfeftly tofausfy their own wilhes, and
adapt them to their own circumstances,
without consulting any other party, as they
have done with the two treaties mentioned
above? If so, the fending an Envoy will
be, I acknowledge, a mere matter of eti
quette; but for my life I cannot fee any
benefit relulting from it.
This lalt decree of the French Direftory
of March 2d, 1797, is so remarkable that
it claims particular notice.
They remind " all French citizens, that
the treaty, concluded on the 6th February,
1778, between France and the United
States, has been, on the terms of the se
cond article, modified of full right, by
that which has been concluded at London
on the 19th Nov. 1794, between the Unit
ed, States of America and England."
The people of the United States will
please to observe, that the complaints of
the French Government have been aimed
chiefly at this very treaty ; their partizans
here have comglained that Mr.
Jay's treaty has injured the French, and
broke our Faith with them. Take notice,
on the Tecond of last March the Direftory
fay, the treaty of Nov. 1794, this fame
treaty so complained of, has of full right
modified their treaty with us,' and they
now take all the advantages of both—on
what ground i In virtue of the 2d article
of their treaty with us, which is in these
words, viz.
Themcft Christian King and theUnir
ed State; engage,mutually, not to grant any
particular favor, in refpeft of commerce and
navigation, which lhall not immediately be
come common to the other party, who lhall
enjoy the lams (ivor, freely, - cor »"
cession was freel)* nvute; or on allowing
the 1-ime compensation, it' the concefcipn
was conditional." Tiis discovery,
by the Direftory the id of la.ll March, sets
ail this matter right.
What are we to think of such loud anil
reiterated complaints about a treaty, and
the injuries it inflicted on the French, when
we find, £y the declaration of ihe#:refto
ry, that the benefits given to the English,
in terms, and by force of an express pro
vision, immediately attach themselves to
France? If this coilftruftion is just, and
who lhall dare contradift it, the necessity
of an Envoy cease his iftain bufinels
was to effeft a violation of the treaty with
Great-Britain, or at lealt a modification of
that with France, so as to place them on
the fame tooting. Bat this we fee is done
b.yithe Direftory, and solemnly recorded
among their laws.
Is there an antifederalift hardy enough
to complain any more of Mr. Jay's treaty ?
I hope not.
Some few sentiments on the proper con
duct with France, (hall be offered in my
next.
A FRIIND TO TRUTH.
May 16, 1797.
OPINION OF
Chief "Jufiice Ellfworth,
In a cafe refpetting British debts, lately
determined in the Circuit court of the
United State! for North Carolina dif
trift.
It is admitted that the bond on which
this suit is brought, was executed by
the defendant to the plaintiffs; and
that the plaintiffs have not been paid.
But the defendant pleads, that since the
execution of the bond, a war has exifled,
in which the plaintiffs were enemies ; and
that during the war, this debt was con
fifcated, and the money paid into the
of the date. And the plaintiffs
reply, that by the treaty which terminated
the war, it was llipulated, that " creditors
on either fide, Ihould meet with no law
ful impediment, to the recovery of
bona fide debts heretofore contrasted." ,
Debts contradled to' an alien, ,are not
extinguilhed by the intervention of a
war with his nation. His remedy is sus
pended while the war lasts, because it
would be dangerous to admit him into the
country, or to correspond with agents in
it: and also because a transfer of treasure
from the country to his nation, would
diminilh the ability of the former, and
increase that of the latter, to prosecute the
war. But with the termination ofhoftilities,
these reasons and the suspension of the re
medy cease.
As to the confifcation here alledged,
it is doubtiefs true, that enemy's debts
so far as consists in barring the creditor,
and compelling payment from the debtors
for the ufeof the public, can be confifcated:
and that on principles of equity, though
perhaps not of policy, they may be. For
their confifcation as well as that ofproperty
of any kind, may ferveasan indemnity for
the expences of war, and as a security
against future aggreflion. That such
confifcations have fallen into disuse, has
resulted not from the duty which one
nation, independent of treaties, owes to
another,, but from commercial policy,
which European nations have found a
common, and indeed a llrong interest in
supporting. Civil war, which terminates
in afe verance of empire, does perhaps less
than any other, juftify the confifcation of
debts: because of the special relation and
confidence subsisting, at the time they
were contrasted, and it may have been
owing to this consideration, as well as
others, that the American states, in the
late revolution, so generally forbore to
confifcate the debts of British fubjefts.
In Virginia, they were only sequester
ed ; in South-Carolina, all debts to whom
soever due were excepted from confifca
tion ; as were in Georgia, those of " Bri
tilh merchants, and others residing in
Great-Britain. And in the other states,
except this, I do not recalled that British.
debts were touched. Certain it is that the
recommendation of Congress on the fub
jeft of confifcation, did not extend to
them.—North-Carolina, however, judg
ing for herfelf, in a moment of severe
pressure, cxercifed the sovereign power of
palling an aft of confifcation, which ex
tended, among others, to the debts of the
plaintiffs. Providing, however, at the
fame time, as to all debts which ihould be
paid into the treasury under that aft, that
they would indemnify the debtors, Ihould
they be obliged to pay again.
Allo wing then that the debt in ques
tion was in faft and of right confifcated
can the plaintiffs recover the treaty of
17*83?
The 4th article of that treaty is in the
following words. " It is agreed that the j
creditors on either fide ihall meet with no |
lawful impediment to the recovery of j
the full value in ftcrling money, of all I
bona fide debts heretofore contrasted."
There is no doubt but the debt in ques
tion was a " bontf fide" debt, and theretofore
contrasted/. e. prior to the treaty. To
bring it within the article, it is also requi
site that the debtor and creditor Ihould have
been on different fides, with reference to
the parties to the treaty, and as the defend
ant was confeffedly a citizen of the United
States, it mult appear rhat the plaintiffs
wcrefubjefts of the king of Great-Britain ;
and it is pretty clear, from the pleadings
and the laws of the state, that they were io.
It is true that on'the 4th of July 1796,
when North-Carolina became an indepen
dent state, they were inhabitants thereof,
though natives of Great-Britain; —and
they might have been claimed and holden j
as citizens, whatever were their sentiments
or inclinations. But the state afterwards
in 1777, liberally gave to them with others 1
similarly circumltanced, the option of
taking an oath of allegiance, or of de
parting the state under a prohibition to
return, wjt v . the indulgence of a time to
fell their ettates, and colleft and remove
their effeft.\ They chofc the latter;
and ever zf'.er adhered to the i;in? of
Crreat Britain, and inufttherefore .be re-
I garded 2s on the British fids. ¥
It is alfc pertinent to the enquiry, whe
i ther the debt in question be within the b£»i
forft recited article, to notice an objeftion
| which has been stated by the defendant's
[ counsel, viz. that at the date of the treaty,
i what is now sued for as a debt, was not a
. debt, but a nonentity payment havinj
been made, and a difchargc effected, under
the aft of confifcation : and' therefore that
, the stipulation concerning debts did not
; reach it. ,
In the firft place, it. is not true that in
; this cafe there was no debt a't the date of
i the treaty. A debt is creatdd by contrast,
r and exists till the contrast is performed.
, Legislative interference, to exonerate a
. debtor from the performance of his contrast,
whether upon or without conditions, or to J
take from the creditor the protection of *
t law, does not in ftrifinefs, deltroy the
debt, though ft may, locally, the remedy
for it. The debt remains, and in a so
. reign country, payment is f. equently en
forced.
Secondly, it was tnanifeftly the design
of the stipulation, that where debts hid
been therefcrc'contraHed, there ftionld be no
bar to their recovery, from the operation
of laws pasTed subsequent to the contrast.
And to adopt a narrower conftruftion,
, would be to leave creditors to a harder fete
than they have been left to, by any modern
treaty.
Upon a view then of all thecircumftances
of this cafe, it mult be considered as one
withhr* the stipulation, that there ftiould be
" no lawful impediment to a recovery.
And it is not to b? doubted, that impedi
ments created by the aft of confiscation, are
lawful impediments. They mult therefore
be dilregarded, if the treaty is a rule of de
cision. Whether it is so or not, remains to
be considered. - *•
Here it is contended by the defendant's
counsel, that the confifcation aft has not
been repealed by the state ; that the treaty ,
could not.repeal or annul it: and therefore
that it remains in force, and secures the de
fendant. And further, that a .repeal of it
would not take from him a right veiled, to
Hand discharged.
As to the opinion, that a treaty does not
annul a statute, so far as there is an interfer
ence, it is unsound. A statute is a decla
ration of the public will and of high autho
rity : but it is controulable by the public
will subsequently declared. Hence the
maxim, that when two ftatutej are opposed
to each other,, the latter abrogates the for
mer. Nor is it material, as to the effedt cf
the public will, what organ it is declared
by, provided it be an organ constitutionally
authorized to make the declaration. A
treaty when it is in faft made, is, with re
gard to each nation that is a party to it, a
national aft an ex predion of the national
wilt, as much so as a llatute can be. And
it does, therefore, of necessity, annul any
prior llatute so far as thfere is an interfer
ence. The fuppoiition that the public
can have two wills at the fime time, re
pugnant to each other, one exprefcd by
a statute, and another by a treaty, b ab
surd. y
The treaty now under consideration was
made, on the part of the United States, by
a Congress composed of deputies from each
state, to whom were delegated by the arti
cles of confederation, expressly, " the foic
and exclusive right and power of entering
into treaties and alliances;" and being ra
tified and made by them, it became a com
plete nationel aft, and the law of every
state.
If however, a fnbfequent fanftion of thk
state was at all neceifary to make the treaty
law here, it has been had a,nd repeated.
By a statute passed in 1787, the treaty was
declared to be law in this Hate, and ,the
courts of law and equity were enjoined to
govern their decisions accordingly. And
in 17891 wa s adopted here the present con
' ftitution of the United States, which de
clared, that all treaties made, or which
should be made, under the authority of the
United States, (hould be the supreme la\v
of the land; —and that the Judges in every
state (hould be bound thereby;—any thing
in the constitution or laws of any state to
the contrary notwithstanding.—Surely then
the treaty is now law in this state, and the
confifcation aft, so far as the treaty inter
feres with it, is annulled.
Still it is urged, that annulling the con
fifcation aft, cannot annul the defendant's
right of difclUEge, acquirpd while the aft
j was in force.
J It is triie that the repeal of a law does
not make void what has been well done un
der it, butis also true, admitting the right
; here, claimed by the defendant, to be as
substantial as a right of property can be, that
he may be deprived of it, if the treaty so
requires.—Ft is juftifiable and frequent, in
I the adjuftntent of national differences, to
concede for the fafety of the state, the rights
of individuals. And they afterwards in
demnified or not, according to circumstan
ces. What is molt material to be here noted
is, that the right or obstacle in queltion,
whatever it may amount to, has be>n create
ed by law, and not by the creditors. It
comes within the description of "lawful
impedimentsall of which, in this cafe,
the treaty, as I apprehend removes.
Let judgment be for the Plaintijff.
CHARLESON, April 31.
From the Patriate Fmncais of yeltcrday,
A letter from the Cape, received by the
post, announces that the revolters and difcon.
tented, of all cdour» and of all kinds, who
were at the Tannery, had advanced to Petit
Anfe.of which they made themselves matters,
and from which they threatened to march
againlt the Cape j that consternation and a
larm existed to a great degree in that city, all
' commuuicr.tien with which was cut off ; that
1 it could not obtain fnificient provisions for
its consumption j the inhabitants were rediw
cedtohalfa ration, and this pittance could
not lad longer than 15 days, at the end of
which time they must die of hunger, if not
aken before.
.1.0 ccr*We are informed t'uat the President of the j
Agricultural facility, of this ftite, has re- j
ceived from Mr. Jefferfon, Vice President of '
the United States, upwards of one hundred
different kinds of Rice, which have been pro
cured by that gentleman from the Philpipine
1 (lands. We understand that several mem
bers of the society have taken some of each
sample to plant. Their experiments will de
termine whether either of the. species ought
to be introduced into this count?y. Some of ,
the famp'ies are of rice which grows on high 1
land.
It is wi'h much pleasure we announce, that j
the repairs which were deemed necessary to I
Fort Johnson, are, (by the exertions of cap
tain Kalteifen, the aommanding officer) now
completed, by which that poll has received
great additional strength, and an increase of
defence. The situation of the troops is also
rendered more comfortable and healthy, by
- the ereftion of a very handleme range of bar
racks.
SAVANNAH, May 5.
Jacob Watts, who under sentence of death
for pafling base metal, has been reprieved by
his Excellency the Governor.
ALEXANDRIA, May 12.
Yesterday the Coroner's inquell fat on the
body of a man, who, the preceding evening,
it appeared, had in htß deep, raised the win
dow of an upper story, and in endeavouring
to get on the pent-house, pitched on the
ground, which fradtured his scull, fa that he
expired in a few minute}.
FAYETTEVILLE, May 6.
Wednesday last, Wiiliam Moore and Wil
liam Trull, received sentence of death, to be
executed on the 9th in ft-.—the former for
murder and the latter for horse dealing.
We are informed, that about the begin
ning of last week a party of Indians consist.
ing of ten, eroded the Oconee, two miles
/r«m the Long Bluff and fired or> a Mr. Isaac
Brown arid his wife. Mr. Brown was kil
led on the spot, and Mrs. Brown wounded. j
CINCINNATI, April 8. '
The following is the distribution of the
forces of the United States, at the different '
posts. " '
Otfego, 62 Men
Niagara, 124
Prelqueifle, 124 '
Detroit, 248
Michelimnckinae, 124
Chicago, 124
Opie, 62 '
Phifcats, 124
Maffac, 62
Fort Knox, 62
Fort Walhington, 62 <
PittAurgh and Franklin, 124
Fort Wayne, 180 c
Walnut Hills, 62 p
Natchez, 348 0
S. W. Territory, j 24 I
Georgia, 370 „
2294 a
Which reduces the (landing army of the U
nited States to three regiments. t
NEW YORK, May 15. I
New-York Bank Direction. o
The following are the Diretlors for the p
ensuing year: si
Gulian Verplank, - ii
Samuel Jones, 1« Comptroller of the I
J ' J btate. f<
Richard Varick, h
Comfort Sands, o
Daniel M'Cormick,
- William Seton, C
Nicholas Governeur, \
Charles Smith, I
John B. Coles,
William Constable, S
John H. Thompfoo, I
William Bayard, tl
John M'Vickar, p
M. Clarkfon. h
Mr. Verplank was re-e!e£led President. ri
Yesterday failed his Britannic Majedy's v
Packet Princess Royal, captain Skinner,
with the mails for Halifax and Falmouth. «
TAMMANY ANNIVERSARY. «
Friday last being the 12th May, the Tam. c
many Sotisty, or Columbian Order, cele- c;
brated their anniversary feftival in their Wig- v
warn in Broadway. At 12 o'clock, the
society met for the dispatch of ordinary busi
ness; at one o'clock the doors of the Wig
wam were opened for the admission of visit- I
ors, when a considerable number of gentlemen t<
honored the foeiety with their attendance. I
Brother John I. Johnson, then, agreeable to lc
appointment, delivered a political
which was received with applause by the le
audience. At 7 o'clock the society again «
assembled at Wigwam, and partook of a col- a
lation prepared by brother Hunter. The r<
entertainment was variegated by songs, anec- o
dotes, and social glee. F
We are happy to obfervethat the day was E
spent with that good humour and patriotic ir
friend (hip which we hope v* ill ever'charafter- p
ife the sons of Tammany. And after having w
smoked the calumet of peace around the ai
council fire, the brothers adjourned to their n
own Wigwams with mutual esteem and fra- a
ternal affeAion. C
The following toads were drank ; a
1. The 12th May. May every return of ct
this anniversary find the brothers in the en- ol
joyment of virtue, peace and independence.
2. The flame of liberty. May it ever fc
shine bright on the altar of united Columbia, di
and her sons become the pillars in the great ci
temple of freedom. r«
3. The Republics sf France and Holland, tl
and all governments founded an the genuine ai
principles of liberty. cl
4. The humane and benevolent institutions w
of our country. May brotherly love and rc
charity be the univcrfal charafleriiie of the rc
sons of Columbia. ni
4. The President of the United States. hi
6. The Vice President of the United te
States. q,
7. The Reprefentativei of the United Peo- pi
pie. 7
-18. Till U:>iverf,«! prevalence of repiiblicaii
principles, and the subversion of all arbitrary
power*
9. The sons of Tammany in the United
States. May they never consent to fmok?
the caldmet of peace, With the enemies of
those principles for which the head men and
tribes in the revolution have contended.
10. May persecution for political and re
ligious opinions, be ever esteemed the une
: , quivocal charaClcriftic of tyrants.
I 11. Miy theJight ofChriftian civilization
I soon reach the abodes of the aboriginals of
I our country, and may their wigwams be con
-1 verted into mansions of peace, knowledge,
■ virtue and happiness.
12. All good Indians. May the war hoop
ever be the expression of a just -elentmeni,
and may the tomahawk never be lifted but to
1 guard the equal Rights of Man.
13. The liberty of the press.
14. The American militia. May they
ever be found the firm supporters of public
liberty, and the open enemies of a (landing
army.
15. The people (late of New-York
and their conlli:uted authorities.
16. The age of univeiTal happiness ana
peace. May the time soon arrive, when man
kind, emancipated from the influence ar.d
dominion of tyrannical and fuperilitious de
magogues, (hall lay aside the weapons of
their warfare, and harmonize together like
children of the fame common parent.
Volunteer from the chair.
Our late worthy governor, George Clin
ton—6 cheers.
By this day's Mail.
PORTSMOUTH, (N. H.) May 11.
IMPORTANT!
Ship Mary, Rice, in 39 days from Ham
burgh, informs that saws was receiyed at
Hamburgh, a few days previous to his leav
ing there, that the mifunderltanding between
the United States and France was amicably
fettled, and that Mr. PINCKNET was cer
tainly received and acknowledged, and that
orders fwhich he saw and read] were issued
by the Diredlory to capture no more Ameri
can vcffelß, unlejt they had two setts of papers
and were carrying on a contraband trade.
That inconfequenceofthe above,lnfurance
bad fallen from 25 to only 4 1-2 per cent,
on American vessels bound to America.
[A gentleman of this town has received by
this arrival a price current of the lnfurance
from a merchant at Hamburgh, which men
tions the premium at 4 1 2 to 5 per cent.3
' BOSTON, May 12, 1797.
STATE REPRESENTATIVES.
CONCERT-HALL LIST SUCCESSFUL AGAIN.
The success which has, with few excepti
ons, constantly attended the candidates pro
posed by the friends of administration, who
on occaflons of eleflion, assemble at Concert
Hall,- is worthy of remark, as well as the ge
nerous moderation which theyobfervs on their
frequent vi&ories. On Wedncfday afternoon
a hand-bill fraught with falfhood, and psf
fionate declamation, was circulated to alarm
the people and aflemble them at the Green
Dragon, to devilc a lift in opposition to the
one previously proposed in independent Pa
pers—Some perLns assembled, a ticket was
formed, and refutations taken which were to
irtfure its success. The meeting at Concert
Hall, was but (lightly notified, and yet the
following lift, then ultimately concluded on,
has received a large majority of the fuffrages
of the citizens of this town.
William Euftis, William Little, John
Codman, Samuel Cooper, Joseph Ruffcll,
William Smith, and Arnold Welles, junr.
Esquires.
We are informed, that capt. Jones from
St. Johns, (some port or ifl »nd to which the
French have ingress) brought intelligence,
that a French privateer had reached that
place in a very (battered condition, having
had a very severe engagement with an Ame- I
rican artped veflel; and that many of the pri
vateerfmen were k < ;d.
Capt. Stafford who arrived yesterday, spoke
with the British brig Swallow, the command
er of which acquainted him, that an Ameri
can veflel belonging to Phtladelphia with
carriage- guns, had beaten off a French pri
vateer, and arrived fafc in a Bririfh port.
PEACE.
The article in our last, copied from the
London Oracle, of March 24, is presumed
to be premature, from a motion made in the
Britifl» Parliament, March 31, for another
loan to subsidize the Emperor of Germany.
Not having the papers which regularly fol
low the one we extrafted theinformation from
we cannot tell, whether it has been formally
and positively eon'.radi&ed. We however
readily believe it is not true to the full extent
of what we at firft had authority to date.—
Possibly the Emperor may have informed the
English, that he fees no profpeft of continu
ing the war to advantage—and advises to a
peace. A communication of this fort rumor
would exaggerate, till it was made as import
ant, as the Oracle tated it. Such a commu
nication might also occasion the motion for
a new Imperial loan in the Britijji House of
Commons, to induce the Emperor to druggie
a little longer with "adversity ; and would ac
count for the mysterious, " Ik" in Mr. Pitt's
observations on that occasion.
Whether the Emperor has already declared
for peace or not, we feel ourselves at a loss to
determine ; but when we find many of the
cities of England and Ireland, (populous and
refpeflable) petitioning his tnajelly against
the war—When reports are daily publi(hed,i
and in papers of different character, that a
change of ministry is contemplated—When
we consider the diminithed (late of the British
resources—and when it is evident the Empe
ror, with a beaten, dispirited and reduced
number of troops, can by no meant flatter
himfelf with the recovery of any of his loft
territory, but mull expeft the French con
quest swill be extended farther into his Em
pire,—We feel confident that NEGOCJA
TIONS FOR PE/fCE will be commenced
I within a very (hart time,—an ] the reafbns
we hive <*iven, producing a more conciliatory
difpcflition in f>m; of the Belligerent powers,
haii has yet been mary'felled, the molt hap
py terminat o may be expifYed to Rich ne
gociations.
A letter from captain Blanchard of the brig
Neptune of this place, received yesterday, states
*!iis capture by a Krfnch privateer, while 011 Ins
piftigc from Martinique to 'Bolton. He was
carried to St. Thomas, and tried hard to reco
ver his property: a< it v.-as a lieutra! port, but
to no purpose. After being rubbed of their mo
ney and other property, and having th*ir lives
threatened, captain B. and chief of their crew,
were turned oh Ihore, and the brig carried to
some other port- The pfize-mafter and mod
of the privjteerfmcn were blacks. The fame
privateer had taken 16 Americans within ten
days, from Demerara and Martinique.
Foreign Intelligence,
SOUTHAMPTON, April 1.
A requilitign has been sent to tlfe Mayor,
signed by the Dean of Wincheder and fomc
principal tradesmen, to call a meeting of the
inhabitants to prefer a petition to the king
similar to that of the city of London.
DUBLIN, March 7.
Unfortunately the aid of paper guineas, as
a lubditute for gold, promises to be an expe
dient ®f p.o great permanence. Alieady, in
many indancee, they bear a discount of one
(hilling per guinea—every day, of course,
they mud look down—and it is to be hoped
that the legislature will in time take proper
steps to avert the co u fummation of a calami
ty so big with utter ruin.
The colliers refufe to the bank of Ireland'
notes in exchange for coals—nothing but
gold ard silver will fatisfy these people; This
is another capacious drain for carrying off
the little that is left in the market of the
precieius metals. Parliament are thereby put
in this predicament : confidently with the
refpeft which they owe to the interelts of
the public, it becomes their bounden duty to
pass a compnlfory law, giving general cur
rency to the bank of Ireland notes, or to set
seriously, heartily, and immediately about
working the collieries of Ireland, which af
ford more than an sbur.dant supply for con
sumption.
Cork bank noteJhave fuffeied a very great
depreciation. Some measure is indispensa
bly neeeffary to keep up the credit of pa
per—for if it ihould fink in the confidence
of the public the very worst consequences
may be expected to follow.
SAINTFIELD, March 9.
Yederday eleven of our people were com
mitted to Downpatiick jail; one of them a
merchant end manufadturer, to whom our
neighborhood is obliged for the introduftion
of a considerable branch of the cotton busi
ness, carried through the whole procefi,
whereby bread is now given to one hundred
persons in our place ; two of them consider.
able farmers ; and all of them to be ranked
with any pthers for sobriety and indudry.
PARIS, March 9.
Private letters date an engagement to have
taken plaee between the archduke £harles
and general Maflena, and that we have- killed
and taken 6000 Audrians.
LONDON, March 1 7v
An official Bulletin of the Spanish camp
of st. Roche, dated the 15th of February,
contains the following intelligence :
" On the sth of February, the Spanish
fleet of 27 fail of the line, ten frigates, and
70 transports, was discovered at break of day
live miles off Gibraltar. At 1 1 o'clock the
diips were out of fight. The brigantine Le
Vis, ot 14 guns ; nine gun boats ; the frigate
Gaudaloupe, of 40 guns ; the Bahama, and
Terrible, of 74 ; and Neptune, of So guns,
under the command of Don Domingo de
Navas, entered Algefiras, where thefird bat
talion of Spanilh guards, commanded by Don
Joachim de Palafox, and the second battalion
of Walloon guards, commanded by Don
Joseph Boreau, were landed for the camp of
St. Roche. One hundred and thirty-three
Englilh prisoners were sent to Gibraltar."
A letter from Frankfort, of the 22d ult.
dates, that the corps 'of Conde, which has
hitherto fought in the name and on behalf
of the king of France, is now to enter the
Audrian lervice, and to swear allegiance to
the emperor. The fame letter adds, that
preparations are making at Vienna for the
marriage of the duke of Angouleme, elded
son of the count d'Artois, with the daughter
of Louis XYI.
Specie is jit present very plenty in almo d
every part of the country ; the large sums
drawn out of the bank having been chiefly
taken from the capital.
TREVISO, February 7.
The French ttoops under the orders of
generals Angereau and Maffena passed by our
city and Cadelfranco to go towards the Pia
va, to attempt the passage of that river, and
penetrate by the Friuli to Triefle. B u ' this
enterprise was not so easily to be executed :
the numerous corps of Audrians, reinforced
by 5000 men arrived/rom Hungary, disposed
themselves to dispute the passage of the Piava
with the republicans, When these lad at
tempted to throw a biidge acrufs the river,
they were repulsed with great loss—a great
-number were drowned, and their boats de
droyed by the fire of the batteries which the
Audrians had ere&ed.on the bank. After
this a£tion, a number of waggons loaded with
wounded Frenchmen were brought in here.
MENTZ, February 24.
We learn from Prefljurg, that in the be
ginning of March, 30,000 Hungarians will
march to the army in Italy.
LONDON, March 2j.
We lad night received, by express, Paris
papers to the 18th ind.
The committe of the Conneil of Five
Hundred has been employed in th* discuss
ion of a very argent meffsge frcm the Di
ivftory, on the distress of the public limnce.
C.imus declaimed with gieat violence
the Jepredraons' which were prattifsj en e
very lide, and convinced his hearers that tile
diredtury would not finditfelf in fiicii cmbar
lafl'ments, if the minister of finaiiice were
less ignorant, or marc ofionnomical.
The enduing cleftijtij occupy cof.fiJera'i'e
attention. A been addrciltd by
the executive directory to ti-.c council ot i'l.e
liundred, refpeftinjr ptrfont in public C.ua
tions, who had rcftifed to take the oath of
hatred to royalty and anarchy. A de
bate ei.fued, and the mcflagc was ordered on
be pruned.
v Gen. Hoche arrived at Colegne, where
the head quarters of the army of the Sambre
and Meufe were, on the 3d inft. He was to
aflilt at a council of war, to be held to the
means of opening the ensuing campaign.
Moreau, Kleber, Hutry, Lefrbure, Da
mas, and other French generals formed this
council, to which Hoche was to submit the
flails and orders of the diieitory. Tim
movement of the troops on each (idr ot the
Rhine were taking place with redoubled ac
tivity. Moreau retained th? command in
chief of the two armies. The King of Prus
sia has ordered an army of lC,ooo men to
march towards the but what his prof
pedis are does not appear.
* '
, BELFAST?March 13.
Three men were yefterriay feot 03 board
the teoder, who had been brought to town
the night before by an escort of the Lower
Iveah yeomen.
NEWBURYPORT, May n.
AGREEABLE INTELLIGENCE.
A gentleman arrived in town yelleiday
from Portfmrtuth, by whom we are favored
with the following : That the Ihip ,
W. Rice, mailer,arrived at Portsmouth Taef- <
day morning, in 42 days from Hamburgh.
Capt. Rice informs, That previous to his
leaving that city, he was told by the Ameri
can cefiful, That the Executive DireSory of
France had recalled Mr. Pinckney from Am
flerdam, and that the tufinefs -with Emeries
would le amicably fettled. Capt. Rice saw
the official account at the consul's office.
The board of coramiffioners in England,
has decided the cafe of the Sally, captain
Choat, in behalf of the claimants, Mefrs.
W. P. Johnson, and others of Newburypott:
that they are entitled to full and complete
compensation from the British government
for the loss fulftined by the capture. It
remains for them to. prove the amount of
loss, &c.
Several American vessels lately from the
Mediterranean were met by Algerine cruiz
ers, treated well, and were convoyed in fafety
out of the Streights, where there is much
danger from the J^enc^aad^paniards^^
PHIL AD £ LP HI A,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, MAY 17.
[ MefTrs. Kitteia, Venable, Freeman, Ma AT.
Grifwold and Rutledg*, were this day ap
pointed a committee of the House of Re
prefeiitativts to prepare and reporian anftver
to the Prefident'a Speech. _ ,
Vejfelt in this port May 15//;, 1797.
51 Ships
59 Brigs
2 Snows
33 Sthooners
13 Sloopr, beftdes coaflers.
ExtraS of a'htter from New J'ori to the Edi
tor of the Philadclpeia Gazette, dated May 16.
" A gentleman who arrived here last Sun
day from St. Croix Hates, that previous to
his embarkation for this city, accounts had
been received there, that the valuable illand of
ST. JUAN DE PUERTO RICO
was, a few days before, taken from the Span
iards by the British army ai\d navy from
Martinique, under the command of lieuten
ant general fir Ralph Abercrombie and rear
admiral Henry Hervey : the principal forti
fication made a short refidauee, and cod the
besiegers but a few men.
".This valuable island is situated between
Hifpaniola and St. Christophers, is 200 miles
long and 40 miles broad, the centre of the
contraband trade carried on by the British
aud French with the Spaniards, and is ex
tremely fertile, producing the fame kinds of
fruits with the othei islands.
" A letter received in this city from Port an
Prince of April I, informs, that, • We have
now at the head of government a man of
fuel) character and abilities as afford us the
gieateft hopes that his arrival has been very
propitious, as it happebed at a moment when
the brigands had attacked moll of our out
polls, which, from the long inadtivity of his
predeceflor, lay quite destitute of defence,
both in refpeft to troops and ammunition,
but every thing is now alluring the moll pro
miOng events. Flour, which lately wag 24
dollars, at once fell to 14 dollars, and is ow
ing to the arrival of th'ee convoys with up
wards of 5000 barrels.''
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Port of Philadelphia.
akri+fd. Day;.
Ship Diana, Pile, Havanr.ah 15
Hairiot, Moore, f«nr. Hamburgh 51
via. !hw York 4
Brig Molly, Kilby, Cape N. Mole 15
Malahar, Kenyon, ditto 15
Amiable Creole, Story ditto 14
Courier, Burr, ditto 15
Elizabeth, Baft, WindorN.S. 14
Pennfylvania.-TateJn, St. Thomas 18
Schr Oiion, Moxly, Cape N. Mole 15
Heriniene, Boggs, ditto 15
ITinots, Nifbit, ditto ij
Dovo, Paul, St.Thomas 14
CLEARED.
SMp Nancy, Perry, Londoa
Brig Neutrality, Kins, Cowei
Schr. Hollon, Midlus, Bar ha docs
The snow Boflon, Dorghirty, from tie H.»
vannab, is below.
i he brig Fa r American, Stokei, 9 weeks from
Naples is at the Point.
J ije arhted ship Lion, is at Marcus Hook.
BALTIMORE, May i 3.
Extract o. ii letter from an Atiiericari captain
in Balleterre, to liis owners in Baltimore,
dated March 26, 1797.
" I left Martinique on the 1 Sth infant,
md'wtM captured OH the 2oih by a Frenclt
privateer. Oh the 23d I was fead down
here. \ our vcfTel is not yet ijot in. I have
as vet the liberty of {lie town, tho* without
akdullar to pay for a dinner, or a night's
ing j but I expeft every hour to go to goal,
as an officer of the m'um'aipality told me y»f
terday that I would be j-nt in prison in lcf»
than 24 houta. How long the savages will
keep roe in ptifon 1 know :>ot. They con
demn American veftels without ever examin
i"K ■«> 0!le belonging to them, and we dare
not a(k why they did so. From all theilhnds
taken by the Bittift they condemn vcflel and
t.irgo from a Biitifit i/jand they only con
demn the cargo.
Captain Hmofhy Gardner, from Amflcr.
flam Apiil ia. lat. 41, 00, long. 42, ia e
heavy gale of wind, met a French frigate of
40 guna, fr«m GnacJaioupe, who authori
tatively commanded him to hoist out hi?
boat and bring his papers on board, which
were ranfaiked with a degree of violence,
fiercely to be pardoned. After this and the
prafticc of othfr indecent enormities he was
permitted to proceed.
May la, lat. 56, 27, fp'oke the brig
Hannah, from New-York, bound to Savan
nah, also a brig from the fame place bound
to New Orleans.
On Wednesday evening last, was brought
too by the AndrOmache, British frigate;
after a short detention and civil treatment
was dimiffed.
The fame evening saw two (hips of the
line, and two frigates at anchor in Lynn
haven bay.
Arrived at the Texel.
Jan. 10 Olive Branch, Sands, from N. York
11 Lucia, Dill, Bofloii
IJ Hebe, Gardner, Baltimore
Lcilona, Dade, Virginia
16 Iwo Sifters, Reed, New York
17 Polly, Ives. SaleTh
Fabius, Corran, Philadelphia
20 Grace, Willis, do.
21 ' atnot > Tee, New-YOlk
Citizen, Whither, do.
Ruthy, Simons, Boston
24 Mercury, Miller, Philadelphia
Hope, Terrier, New-York
Union, Johnftoo, Baltimore
35 Hopewell, Dowling Salem
Feb. 1 Mary, Ward, New-York
7 Wilmington, Hillman, Philadelphia
18 Peggy, Cotter, Bolton
19 Friendship, Orange, New-York
Hope, Haldt, Charleftoti
The fallowing vejels failed from tie Texel.
Feb. 20 , Hughes, for New-York
26 Mercury, Miller, Philadelphia
John and Mary, Coit, Boston
Anifterdam, Scot, Charleflon
Fabius, Corran, Philadelphi,
The following vejels were loading <wben Capt.
Gardnerfailed.
Union, Johnfton, for New-Y«rk
Fiiendfhip, Orange, <j 0 .
Two Sitters, Reed, do.
' 1Jf gKy> Cottle, ' do.
Grace, Willis, Philadelphia
Wilmington, Hilman, do.
Lucia, Dill, Boflon
Maria and Eliza, Down, do.
Henry, Boyd, Providence.
New-York, May 16.
ARRIVED. HAYS.
Ship Argus, Black, New-Orleans, a I
Brig Calliope, Leonard, St. Bartholomews, 16
Schooner Sally, Fowler, do. do.
Sun'uury PacKet, Horrifon, P. a« P. 17
Polly, Shefiield, - Hava»na, 14
Sloop Nancy, Bartlet, Newbern, N. C. 5
Brig Pearl, Fofdyke, of this port, has arrived
at Bordeaux.
United States, 1 _
Pennfyhsnia Dtflriß,
Notice is hereby given,
TH <\T in pursuance oi a writ to me dire&ed
from the honorable Richakd Piters, Esq.
Judge of the Diftriit Court of the United States
in and for the Pennsylvania Diftriift, will be ex
posed to sale a: the merchants' cofFee-houfe in this
city, on tl.e 27th day of this instant, May, at i»
o'clock at 1110 a,
The Schooner or Vrffel tailed
THE BETSEY,
•. With all and lingular her tac
kel, apparel and furniture (whereof an inventory
may be seen at my office) the fame having been
libelled against and condemned in tin said l.liftriJt
Court, for the payment of mariner's wages, ice.
William Nichols, Marshal.
marshal's orfice,">
17th May, 1797. J co *7m
r a^more '
Harriot,
1 -SISStHt?-J THOMAS moore, Commander;
A fine faft failing ship, and is expected to fail the
lift inft. Freight will be taken very low, if im
mediately applied for, to the captain on beard at
Willcox's wharf, sr to
Peter Kubn.
N. B. The consignees of goods on board the a
bove ship from Hamburg, will pleafc to he expe
ditious in delivering their permits, as (he is now
difchargirfg*.
May 17. d4t
To be iold or let,
And immediate ptffrjfnn givfn,
A genteel two story Brick House ;
OITUATE on the urper end of Broad-street, in
O the city of Burlington, with four rooms and
an entry on each floor, good cellars under the
whole, a pump in the yard, a garden and #ourt
yard, containing nearly half an acre under
tence, with a (table adjoining the yard. The
whole property is in good order;
For terms apply to the subscriber in Burlington,
who will give a credit for a confidcrable part of
the purehafe money if fecurity is given.
William Coxc, jun.
May 17,
aawtfCanal Lottery,
1 No. 11.
Scheme of a Lottery, ,
Auilioriied by an aft, entit'td, "anaS to j
enable the Prefideni and Managers ol the
Schuylkill and Sufqueliannah n-ivig«ioo, to <•
rajfe, by way of Lottery, -t!* e sum tif I oui
Hundred Thousand Dollars, for the
of completing the works, in il.eir a v is »»l
incorporation mentioned."
. Dollars l
1 Priie of twenty thousand dollars, 20,00® 5
I of ten Thousand dollars, 10, coo '
5 of four thoul'and dollars each, to
be paid to the pofftlTors of the five
numbers firft out of the wheel on the
lad day's drawing, at which time tfieie
shall not be lefa than 500 numbers un
drawn, 20,e00 !
10 of two thousand dollars each, 20,000 ,
ao of one thousand dollars each, 20,000
43 ef five hundred dollars each, 21,500
100 of two hundred dollars each, 20,c00
100 of one hundred dollars e»ch, 10,000
320 odfifty dollars each, n,oco
of five dollars each, 147»5°°
30,000 Tickets at ten dollars each. 300,000
Six dollars for each ticket will only be de
manded at the time of sale
AH prizes shall be paid ten days after the
drawing is fmilhed, upon the demand of the
pofieflor of a fortunate ticket, fubjeit to a de
duction of fifteen per cent.
Such prizes as are not demanded within 12
months after the drawing is finilhed, of which
public notice will be given, Ihall be considered as
relinquiflied for the wfe of the Canal and applied
accordingly.
At a Meeting of the President and Mana
gers of the Schuylkill and Sufquehanna
Canal Navigation—and the President and
Managers of the Delaware and Schuylkill
Canal,
Resolved, That Joseph Ball, John Steinmetz,
Standifh Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Crea,
John Miller, jua. and William Montgomery,
be a committee to arrange and direa the mode
of disposing of the ticket! 1 which committee
(hall deposit this money in bank, to be carritd
to the credit of an account to be opened for
the Lottery.
We the Commiflisners appointed by the Go
vernor to superintend the drawing of the Lot
tery, inform the public, that the tickets are
row rolling up, and that the drawing will po
sitively commence on Mondaythe 29th of May
next.
Frederick KM,
/fames /{fh,
Hjeorge Budd.
Philad. A prill 7, 1797- 2aw
#
Tickets at fix dollars each to be had of the
managers, or at the canal office, near the bank
of the United States.
For Sale,
TWO LOTS OF GROUND in Kensing
ton, on the south fide of Hanover-street,
containing thirty-fix feet in breadth and one
kunrlred and sixty-seven and a h-vlf feet in
depth to a twenty feet alley For further in
formation enquire at No. 37, Arch-fireet.
Ma,rch tB. eodtf
TO BE RENTED,
And may be enteied upon at any time,
THATforcibleand wellimprovedwaterworks
on Brandywine, three miles from the town
of Wilmington, in the state of Delaware j
CONSISTING OK
A large, convenient Slitting Mill,
In complete 6rder, having several pair of rolls
and cutters of every size.
A large, Stone Merchant Mill,
Having three pair burr stones, boulting works,
corn kiln and every other necelTary apparatus.
A Saw Mill,
In the best orddr, and a pair of timber wheels.
A Smith's Shop and Tools.
To'accommodate the-fe works there is a large
commodious stone dwelling house, kitchen and
wash house and a number of dwelling honfes
for workmen, with gardens adjoining ; two large
stone stables, two stone coal houses, and a coop
er's (hop, with meadow and pasture grounds.
If the tenant chufes he may have the oppor
tunity to purchase an excellent of five hor
ses, waggon, coal carriages and bed, with a
stock of coal in the coal houses fuffieient to ma
nufacture three hundred tons of iron.— Apply to
RUMFORD fef ABIJAH DAWES,
No. 7, South Water-street.
For Sale,
At the Ofljce of the Gazette of the United
States, No. 119, Chefnut-ftreet,
The lajl Report of the late Secretary
of the Treasury; b»ng a bripf hiiiory of the
state of financial c-oncerns of the United States.
The Proceedings of the Executive
of the United States refpeifling the western in
fur region : Containing many faiCls and cir
cuinflances no where else to be found, jo
cents.
The Letter of Mr. Pickering to
our minister in France. 371-2 cents.
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States for the year
I7 ? J -
A tew copies of the volume for 1794 mJ y be
had to complete fe:ts.
D'ivernois' account of the Revo
lution in Geneva. 12 1-2 cents.
April 3. §
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 Sou. h Second P.reet,
[Price 31 Cents J
A View of the Caitfes and Confluen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Ekskinc.
May 1 s §
To be fold cheap,
T0 close an adventure»
7 Bales Bafias
2 ditto Coff-s
Apply at the Store cf
Merdecai Lewis,
May 16 «oiw
A Nfcw Work.
PROPOSALS
For (Waiting and publilhing, bv fubfcriptioo, The J
History of Pennsylvania, °
i N Norlh-Ainrrica,/ftom the infliction and r(
5 liltlcinent ot" th.;t province. rnder the firft propfi-
eror and governor* William Pin n , in 1601, till
after ihc year 174®; vwith •
AN INTRODUCTION
Refpefting the Life of vv . PENN, v
Piior 10 tlieg ant of that Province, and the reli- o
pious Society of the propie called Quakers; with the ji
FIRST RISE of the NEIGHBOR! NGCOLONIfcS,
mere particuiaily or WEST-NEW J c.R$£Y, and the a
Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDES on DEL A- g
WARE. > c
To which is added,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO- [
VINCE.
And of the general (late, in which it flourifhed, J
principally between the years 1760 and 1770. The *
whole including a variety of things, ufeful and i»- J
lerefting to be kfiown, refpe£tiug that country in early '<■
tvme, &c. With an ?ppendix. t
Written principally between the years iy]6ind 1780,
By Robert Proud. 1
" Pulchrum ejl beuejacere reipublic x, etiam bent dicer c
haud abjmdum ejl, vet pace vel bello clarum fieri licet*' 1
£al. Catalin. ,
MSedcum plerique arbitrentvr res bellicas majorcs ejfe
aujm nrbanas, minuenda efl bote opinio.*'
Cic. Off.
(Entered according to law.)
WILLIAM PENN, the great legislator of the
Quakers, (in had the fuccels of a con
quer or, in eftablifhiog and defending his colony, a
inong savage tribes, without ever drawing the sword ;
the goodness of the most benevolent rulers, in trea
ting his fubje£ts as his own children ; and Che tender
iiefs of an universal father, who opened his arms to
all mankind without diflinftion ot fe6t or party. In
his Republic it was not his religious creed, but per
sonal merit, that entitled every member ot society to
the protection and emolument of the State "
RJfay on Toleration, by Arthur o*Leery.
CONDITIONS.
I. This work will be printed in two o&avo vol
umes, neatly bound and lettered, both in sheep and
calf, for the choice of the fubferibers; on paper simi
lar to that of the conditions, as publi/htd in the Subjcrip
tion papers.
li. The head of William Penn, handsomely en
graved, will be prefixed to the firft, and a map or
(ketch of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the
second volume.
Ill* The price to fubferibers will be four dollars
and an half in sheep, and five dollars in calf; —one
dollar to be paid at the time of fubtciibing, two dol
lars on the delivery of the firtt| volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery ot the lecond. v
IV. When one thousand copies are fubferibed
for, the work will be out to press and fmilhed with
all convenient expedition.
Subscriptions will be received by Zachariah Poul
fon, jun. Priuter, No. 80, Chefuut-ftreet, and at the
Philadelphia Library in Fifth-ftreet ; by Isaac Col
lins, Printer, and Joseph James, Merchant, New-
York; by John P. Pleafianisaad George W. Field,
Moichants. Baltimore; and by other persons both
in town and country.
February 18* tu&f
Laws of the U. S.
SWIFT's EDITION.
Just Publijhed,\
Price 6 dollars, 3 vol. nmo.
Sold by W. Young, Mills and Son, H. and
P. Rice, M.Carey, R. Campbell and Co.
Laws of the United States,
From tlx commencement of the Federal Govern
ment to the end oj the lajl Sefflon of Con
gress, which terminated Mtrch 3, 1797.
r l ''HIS edition, published under an order of
X Congress of the United States, has many
peculiar advantages. In the former one, each
volume had a separate index, which rendered
> the reference in all cases, difficult and trouble
-1 some, and in many almost impossible. The in
dexes were, moreover, very injudicionfly com
piled. On the contrary, in the present edition,
t there is one copious, luminous index, com
. piled by Zephaniah Swift, Esq. referring to
all the volumes, and compriling in itfelf a com
plete digest of all the laws of the United States.
May 3. w&B7t
1 _ m
Venereal Complaints,
"PUNCTUALLY attended to in every stage of
Jl that disease, without the ufc of mercury or
. restraint of diet, in any cafe recent and simple. on
] application at No. 113, Chefnut-fcreet, opposite
5 the United States bank, or at No. 170, South Wa
e tcr«ftreet, between Spruce and Pine-ftaeets, where
he has opened an office lor the better accommoda
tion of his patients.
But in Lues Venerea confirmed, Do&or Morgan
pledges himfelf, that no fyltem of cure (however
specious) can be effe&ual without mercury, and
1 that all the known rules of practice for these two
" centjiriespaft, and united experience affirms, that
3 any substitute for it is but nugatory, and any mode
of pra<slice to the contrary must be futile and de
ceptious.
Never thelefs, he undertakes, however compli
cated the cafe, to effedfc a cure without inconve
nience or injury to the patient's conffcicution, and
in time not generally experienced or expelled.
N B. Regular attendance at the office in Water
t street, from the hour of nine o'clock in the morn
» ing until one, and from three o'clock in the even
, ing until seven ; but any other time at his dwelling
a house, in Chefaut-ftreet.
May 16. dtf
NOTICE.
)
THE Subscribers have strong re;.fons to be
liere that the following evidences of lhares
1 i» the Bank of the United States have been loft
r on their way from England—and give this pub
lic notice, that application will be made at the
e proper offices for a renewal of the fame, viz.
No. 2077 iflued in lieu of No. 9705 to 9790
* 5 lhares
l\ ; o. 2159 do. 16137, 16141 5 lhares.
10 shares sent by the Polly, Capt. Clements,
to Noifolk
No. 1687 iflued in lieu of No. 6728 to 6732
5 lhares
No. 1137 do. 566 to 570 5 lhares
• No. 171 1 do. 6266 to 6270 j lharei
No. 2740 do. 766810 7672 s (bares
2oihares sent by the fliip Kriends, Capt. Cal
ver, to Norfolk.
The whole iflued on the ift July, 1794> to
John Barker Church and accompanied with
powers of transfer to the Subscribers.
In the months of C&obcr and November
lalf they were forwarded to us by Findlay Ban
- natyne and C». of London. Both of the (hips
it appears from the public prints have been
carried into the Weft-Indies by the French
and condemned, from which it is appreh.nded
the papers zrc destroyed. Steps hive been taken
to the improper transfer of the absve
(hares.
Gabriel Wood & Co.
March 31.
Advertisement.
WHEREAS I am informed that two bonds
given by mc to Stoekley Donelfon in
July in the year i/95> or about fix thousand
one hundred and ten pounds Virginia curren
cy each, have been tramferred by the said Do
nelfon and others, and that it is intended to ot
fer the laid bonds for fa!e at i I think
it ray duty to infirm the public, what the
cireutnftancei are under which .the said bonds
were given, and l«*ave those who are in poif.iuon
of them, or to whom they may be offered, tp
judge of the probability of their being paid.
In June 1795, Samuel Love, Jofiah Watson
and myl'elf entered into contrail that I should
go- to the S. Wcftern Territory (now the ltate
of Tennessee) for the purpose of making a
.pureliafe of lands in that Country; the terms
on which the purchase was to be made, were
defined in our agreement, and fifteen days by
Imputation were given fcid Samuel Love and
Jofuh Watson, after I should inform them of
any purchales I should make to determine whe
ther'they woold be partners in it.
J made a purchase of lands of the said Stock
ley Donelfon but not on the terms, to which I
was limited by the said agreement with Samuel
Love, Jofiah W-itfon and myfelf— and although
the purchase exceeded in price, and was not
on the credit agreed on, I thoaght the bargain
a good one, and supposed Samuel Love and
Jofiah Watson would join me in it. I there
fore signed bonds for the payments, in the fame
manner as I should have done, if I had been cer
tain Mr. Love and Mr. Watson would have ra
tified and confirmed them ; because I did not
chufeas I meant to give them an option ot tak
ing part of the said lands, to become solely re
sponsible for the payments, if they should de
termine to accept my offer of part. On my
return those gentlemen i efufed to be concerned
at all my purchase, and as I had received
the deeds jointly in our names, they when re
quested immediately conveyed to me, to that
1 flood wholly pofTefTed of the lands 9 and solely
responsible for payments.
At the time I made the purchase of Mr.. Do
nelfon, I informed him with whom and in what
manner I was concerned, and that Mr. Love
and Mr. Watson becoming responsible for the
payments, depended entirely on themselves.
The purchase I made was to the amount or
upwards of 70,000 dollars, one thousand dol
lars were paid in cash, fix thousand dollars in
fiity day bills, and upwards of twenty thou
sand dollars in goods the fall following the pur
chase. The two ibonds above alluded to were
given, one payable in O<siober ninety-fix, the
other in O&ober ninety-seven. Thole two last
bonds were given on the conditions exprefled in
an agreement delivered at the fame time, and
dated the fame day with the said bonds, the
substance of which is, that the said bonds were
not to be paid, or any part thereof until it ap
peared to the fatisfa&ion of the obligors, that
all incumbrances of {every nature and kind
whatsoever were removed trom the lands and
every part which I had purehafed of
Mr. Donelfon More than one half of the
lands, and those of the bell quality, the Indian
claim is not yet extinguished to, and poffertion
cannot of covirfe be taken of them.
This incumbrance, perhaps, it was expelled
when the contrail was made would be removed,
before the said bonds or cither of them became
due-
There are other obstacles of less magnitude,
which must be removed before either of the
said bonds will be paid.
At the time the said bonds were g'rven it was
agreed by Mr. Donelfon that he would not dis
pose of them, until it was clearly known that
there were no incumbrances on the lands. It
is not ne*effary, I should fay, how, he has been
induced to violate this part of our agreement.
I have complied with the agreements on iny
part to be done, agreeable to the letter and
meaning of my contract, and shall continue to
comply with my contraifl on the plainly-ex
pressed and unequivocal terms on which it was
made. Any person intereffed in the payment
of the said bonds may have on application a
copy of the counter agreement herein alluded
to. I have only to add, that I was very much
furpriaed in a Ihort time after the said bonds
were given to be applied to, to know if they
would be paid; at thattitpe and whenever af
ter I have been spoken to on the fubjedf, I have
informed those applying of the nature of the
circumstances on which the payment depended,
and 1 have never failed to declare in the moll
free and unveftriiflc J manner the true nature
of my enagements with Mr. Donelfon.
yehn Love.
Alexandria, April 28th, 1797
Benjamin Jacob Johnson,
No. 147 Market Street, Philadelphia,
HAV E just received by the (!onneflic«t and other
late arrivals from Liverpool, a general' assort.
ment of well cholen
Dry Goods,
For the ensuing Season, for sale on the lowed tetms
for cash or the common credit.
A large colkftion ol Books at their usually mo
derate prices*
4th month, 25th, 1797,
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder,-at the h«le of Mr.
William" Evans, the lign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 25th
day of October next, at Ji o'clock, A. M.
About seven thousand acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between ReifterVtown and Weltminfter,
commonly called Little Wlnchefter, (the turn
pike road runs through a confidorable parttof
these lauds) the tra<sf begins about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
of said Reifter's-town, and extends to the dis
tance of ."bout twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and lies on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each tra&,
some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine grifc.
ALSO,
A tra£t of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
Bladenfhurg, esteemed very good for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby, of Bladenfburgh, will (hew
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
ALSO,
A trad of land ®f about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a half oi the President's house in the Fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpedl, from which may be fcen the
city of W afliington, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-tcwn, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Por.fon
by, of Bladenlburg, will alfs fh*w this land.
A liberal credit will be given for the grcateft
part of the purchase money, ihe terms will
be made known on the day of falc.
May i
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwelling-house ic.ooo dollars,
& cash 30,000, are 50,000 7
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,00s 40,000
I ditto 15,000 U 1 alh 15,000 30,000
1 ditto ro,ooo & caffl 10,000 ao,o«o
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,00 c 5
1 ditto 5,000 ic caff. 5,000, 10,000
1 cafii prize of 10,000
1 do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000 j|
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
30 do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - < xO,OOO
,00 do. 5° - - Jo,o®e
400 do. 35 " ■ 10,000
I,COO do. 13 - 10,000
15,03® do. io - 150,000
16,739 Prize?.
33,161 Blanks.
50*000 Tickets, at Eight D#U«ri, 490,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a cjiun
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will he
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but oni :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
money or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not less than 30 tick
ets. ,
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be creiled in the City of 1
Wafhingtoc—Two beautiful designs are already
lele&ed for the entire fronts on two of the public ■
squares; from these drawings it ispropofed to ereCl 1
two centre and 'our corner buildings, as soon aspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them, ]
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in 1
the mannerdefcrihcd in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National University, to
be erecled within the eity of Wafhiagton.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two Dired
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
„§, Tickets may be had at the Bank ol Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Wslls, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
Rofs & Simfon,
Have for Sale,
A QUANTITY OF PRIME
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lisbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Calks
A few Quarter Cherts bell
Fresh HyTon and )
1 Hyson Skin 5
. Muscovado Sugars in Hogsheads, and
Coffee in Tierces
March 7. II 'f
For Sale,
ON board the ship Molly, John Frost, mailer
frerti Liverpool, laying at Walnut-street wharf
: 6000 imfhels of fine ftoved Salt,
And QUEEN'S WARE, well alforted,
By PHILIP NICKLIN fcf Co.
WHO HAVE IN STORE, ALSO FOR SALE,
1 100 Boxes WhiteHavanna Sugars
' ImH^ITtAS
Hylon )
i 17 tabs Quicksilver
2 cherts Baodanno Handkerchiefs ,
t A few cherts Manchester Goods well assorted
I in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, mufliucts,
1 dimities, &c. 1 Trunks black sewing silk,
> 180 Crates queens ware, well assorted,
• 10 Tons sheet lead,
Nails assorted, fiat and fhirp points,
: London particular and Madeira Wine in
; India market > pipes and hhds.
, 30 pipes, 10 hhds. Teneriffe Wine,
1 10 choice Port ditto,
31 calks yellow paint,
7 boxes 12 bundles writing slates,
1 box ink-ft&nds & note prtffes,
Sail canvas assorted No. 1 a 8.
May 4. dtf
NOW LANDING,
From on board of the lliip GEORGI- BAR
r CLAY, Capt. Charles M'Alester, from
Calcutta, the following GOODS, viz.
Coffas Punjum Cloths
Hummums Gurrahs
Guzeenahs India Calicoes
|S Emertics Cotton Checks
Mamoodits Mulmuls (
Sahans Red and Blue Bermgou
hkfs
Tickeries Patna do.
Jollas Eantipore do.
Carridairies Plain, flriped and flower
ed fine muslins
Maragunges Ginghams
n Baftas, various forts Taffeties
h Sattln Romals Bandanno red hks.
ALSO,
300 Casks Sugar
40 Boxes do.
165 Bags do.
70, 000 lb. weight heavy black Pepper
j 40,05t) lb. weight Ginger
20 Tons Hemp in Bales
g Pipes East-India Spirits
r S For faleby PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co.
;; May 4. *L.
° To be rented,
0 A of STORES on Morton's wharf. Pof-
XJL feflion may be had immediately.
Enquire of
KEAxNY WHARTON,
1 109 South Water-ilreet.'
May 1
f Notice is hereby given,
f OY order of the Board of Proprietors of the
IJ Eastern Oivifion of the State of N«»v-Jer
fey 1 hat a Dividend of Rights of Location Jon
* their vacant lands, will be ma(le at their nsxt
slated meeting, which commences on the third
Tueiday in May next, being the fiiteenth day of
- the month ; of which all jerfons concerned ar#
>s defircd to take notice.
JAMES PARKER,
It Perth-Amboy, March 13, * 797- $ RcS'r
!j : • " notice.
s TF JOSEPH WESSELS, formerly of London,
1- A who came passenger in the ship Faflor, to
Philadelphia, in the year 1794. will apply at
ft No. 1,7 Mirket-ftreet, he will hear of fome
-11 thing to his advantage. Any inforinatiol re
ipedting him wiU be thankfully received.
tw& f 4
May la
wjm
Stated Sales
AT AUCTION,
For DRY GOODS.
rrr i n ( Afternoon—Peter itJenfon, No. ?4
Kit'fd'V \ south Third . ftrcet .
Th rt S Forenoon—Edward Fox.
ur J V | Afternoon—John Connelly.
p ■ , ) Forenoon—William Shannon.
n 3 Aftemoou—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
f" Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. 56,
%f j J south Front-street,
Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
South Front-street.
f' Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
rr, r j J Aucflion, No. 73 foutU l'ront-ftreet.
Afternoon—\Villiam Noi
183 High-street.
Valuable Lands,
&c. in Georgia.
On Saturdvy, the first day of July
next, at 7 o,clock in the evening, at the Cor
fee-houfc in Philandelphia, will be fold by.
auction, for a liberal credit, the following
estates
In the State of Georgia.
No- I.
A CERTAIN TRACT OF LAND, com
taining 100,697 1-2 acres, fituafc; in the
county of Montgomery, formerly the county of
Walhington, on the east fide of Ohaory river,
and the waters of the Altamaha, and about one
mile above the mouth of Ptndleton's creel:, and
in the neighbourhood of M£l creek. The im
provements on this trail of land, confifling of
the molt complete Grift and Saw Mills in the
southern country, having cost at least 20,000
dollars within these two years. The timber is
of the fineft quality, and the quantity is not to
be eifhaufted.
2.
A trail of very valuable land in Franklin
county, lying on the waters cf Ocor.ie, con
taining about 75,000 acres.
... 3-
A trait adjoining or near to No. 2, contain
ing about 25,00 a acres.
4.
"Two millions and five hundred thousand aerei
of land, being an vndivided part of all that
trail of valuable country, including ifiands, si
tuated on the Mobile Bay, Albahama, Tom
Bigby, and Miffifippi Rivers, which was grant
ed by the State of Georgia to James Gunri, and
others, by the name of " The Georgia Compa
ny", in fee.
5-
Thirty (bares in the TennefTee Company,
each lhare being about 10,000 acres, or one four
hundredth and twentieth part of the .said Ten
nelTee Corapany'c purchal'e, being so much of
the trail of country, granted by the State ef
Georgia to Matthias Maher and Raehariah Cox,
in fee.
(Cs* This piecfc of property may, in the op
tion of thfc purchaser, or his assigns, be offered
to Zachariah Cox, forthe sum of I7s,ooodol
larsi in two years from the 31ft March 1126,
who is obligsd by his fpeeial bond, to take the
fame, if offered to him, at that time, and pay
for the fame, within fix months after the expir
ation of the said two years. This bond is fold
with tne land.
By order of
Henry Pratt,
T. IV. Francis, Jjr ,
John Miller, inn. w %* e " °f
John Athicy, J™" Gr « nlea f-
Jacob Baker,
Edward Fox, Auctioneer.
May 15' mwftS
Divertimenti ;
Or, Familiar Lessons for the
PIANO FORTE.
To which is prefixtd,
A Ground for the Improvement of young Practi
tioners :
COMPOSED by R. Taylor, music profeffor,
Philadelphia, publiflied this day ; price two
dollars, printed for the author, No. 96, Nortb
Sixth-street, and fold at Carr's musical repositories
Philadelphia and New-Yoik, and Orinrod, No.
41, Chefnut-ftreet ; where may be had by the
fame author, a variety of fcrious, comic and paf
aoral songs, rondo for forte piano, k-flon for two
performer on ot-ic instrument, &c. &c. &c.
May 16. W3t
.—-—■
Building Materials.
THE fubferiber has on hand, and affers for
sale at a reduced price for ca<h, or barter
for lumber, wet or dry goods, 78 trimmed win
dow frames, and faflies, each frame coniaining
24 lights for 10 by 8 glass; both sashes may
be hnng by weights. These frames are all made
of good materials, and will suit for town or
country buildings.
If bought by carpenters for their employers,
their usual profits will be allowed.
Please apply at No. 38. north Seventh-street.
Conrad Bartling.
N B. A second hand riding chair and har
ness for sale.
May 16 13*.
An excellent Stand for Bufinefs>
With Stock suit able thereto.
THE fubferibers, crifignecs of Joseph Meif
fon, 1 ffer for sale all the stock of goods on
hsnd, lately belonging to said MeilTon, confin
ing *f a great variety of liquers, groceries,
Any person wishing to engage in bnfinei's as a
■grocer, will have an opportunity of purchafmg
the whole of the retail store on reasonable terms,
and can immediately get poffaflion of it, at the
corner of Strawberry alley rhd Chefnut-ftreet,
whii-h has been losgknown as an excellent stand
for that line of buflnefs. If not fold in teu
days, the whole of that, with a'large quantity
of wines, St. Croix and N:w-Eng!and rum,
.&r. &c. will be put up to public auition.
1 For terms apply to
David Walker,
\ Wm. Buckley, or
Samuel Keith.
* May 10 S
To be Sold,
A THREE-STORY BRICK HOUSI-, with
suitable back buildings, fitotte in Vine-flrtct,
No. 88, completely finilhed, and free of ground
> rent. It has a neat back yard, in which is a large
3 cittern, and new pump (or rain water—commo
t dious cellars are under tie whole, in wbich is a
- dry well, bricked up, that will hold ice. J'Uipro
- perty is well calculatfd for a buardijig-houl». Foi
particulars apply at the prcmif 1.
May J ' tthf
Friday