0 cf tijc ako Pbiladelpbw Daily Advertiser.
NVMST.R 1638 j
SALES BY AUCTION^
Stated Sales
For nrt good s.
C Forenoon—Edwant Fox, Wo. cQ,
MonJah
, Afternoon—Footman & Co. N«. 65
C South Front-ftpcet.
C Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
M.) Auftion, No. 73 fbut'h Front-ftrtet.
■ j Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
(_ tfi High-street.
mdxefdaj \ Af ; ern^°"-Pe * er ■9«3>fon, No. 74
( south 1 hird-ftrcet.
Tburfdav Edward Fox.
"' I Afttrnoon—John Connelly.
Fr'uiat Forenoon—William Shannon.
' 5 Afternoon —John Connelly.
, Sntn-.lny Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
To be fold at the Merchant's G0&
see-House,
ON wednesday the 15th of December at 7 o'
clock in the evening, one certain bond or
obligation aated July i 5, 1795, signed by Jolyi
Love of Alexandria for Kmfelf, Jefiah Warli n
and Samuel Love for Virginia currency,
payible on the 31ft of Orflober lafi paft,tn Stock- j
lev Dotirlfoii or his assigns—which Bond the j
said Donelfon assigned to James Grant, under j
whole power of attorney this file Will be made.
For furth-r particulars apply to the fubferiberj.
FQOXMAN acdCo. AniSlioneers.
Nor: 3,g. dttjthd
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not I fore Jifpc/fed rf at private sale)
ON Morcqayihc January next, at fix
o'c'pck. in the evening, et the MerchanH'Cof
fee HouTf, in Philadelphia, Tweiuv-Si*
Seven Hundred and Eighty acres of LAND, in the
State of New-York, herween the northern bounds
Pennsylvania and the Susquehanna, now, or late
fn th'* to*vnfti>p» of Hamklea and c<>uu
t* of Montgomery. One ionrth the
money be paid at tne time oFTale ; for the rctduc
credit of one, two and three months, will be given,
on interest and good feturity.
D'c. ,^tawfS»
To be bold at Public Vendue,
G( tf not before difpefed of at private sale)
N Monday the hrlt day of January next, at fix
o'clock in (he evening, at the Merchants'CofiVt
House, in P tiladelphia, Forty Thoufind Nine Hun
dred and Thirty-Nine acres of LAND in Green
counts Ccmrnonwealth of Pennfylvania,on tha Wa
ters of Fish ind Wheeling Creek, and ten Mile Ran.
Thefc lands are fertile, well timbered and abouod in
coal; they were fcfold ten years «go for 51. per acre,
patented ea'ly in 1787, except 3,700, which were pa
/ tented in
veyadin 1783.
This traft is between the Ohio and Monongahela,
vcryconvejiientto witerevria^c —about 19 miles from
:.he t4>>vn of Walhingtdn. and from 1410 16 from the
vi.'lsß*»'i>f«Vet'iifbir®lT<i«ti Wberling. One
of the purchase money is 16 be pal 3 at the time *>r.
UU fpt lhe residue a credit «f one, two, »nd tWr-t: .
• months will be given, Ca interefl and goad security.
Pec 1. (3tawtJ
7o be So/ri,
The time of a Negro Boy,
About fifteen) years of age. has seven years yet
to fcrve ; he is an excellent house ferv&ct, afl-re
andhcal'.hy. Enquire of the Printer.
> pecemher 2. diw
T0 Gentlemen who intend /pending ,
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH cr without Board—at No. 114, cornar
of sixth and Racp Street*. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been frc* from theJatc
contagion. 6&.a7-—-dtf
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureond r«fpe<fl, returns her fmceie ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
fkr ii3t received during four years relidcnee in
Philadelphia ; and alTures her frivnds and the
public,, so far from intending to decline her
lchoo!, Ihe hat made a fnperior arrangement for
ihe more convenient accommodation of her .
branch of ufeful and polite
♦ducation is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groom-bridge and mafttrs excelling in their
refpefl ive profrlfi ons.
Cocoer of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June 5-th, 1797.
Tlie Rtuation is perfeilly healthy ; and made
more agreeablib'y an exrenfive garden and lot
of gr"und adjoining the house.
lliis Day Publilhed,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNO, tornerof
Second ajid Chefnut streets,
Price 3-Bths of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents
Contained lw pb. V and VI of
" The Hifttiry of the United State* for
the year 1796,"
In •which the Ph*ro« or speculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
jLate Secretary of the T* easort, it FULLY
REFUTED.
;r xi* ten sr ntms s1 r.
This publication presents a concise ftatemer.t
*f the base means prailifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the charaflers of thof« 1
p«rfons who are connderedas hostile to their disor
ganizing schemes. It also contains the eor
jrefpondence between Mr. Hamilton and Meffri.
Monroe, Muhleuburgh and Venable, on thefub
-se«£l of the documents alorefaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reyoolds-and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflikility of a doiibt,
that the connetflroii between him and Reynolds,
was the r«fu!t of a daring eonfpiracy on the part
of the latter and his aflbciates to extort money.
#gr A discount of one third from the retail price
willbe made in favor of wholcfalc purchafcrs, for ,
cash. Orders to be to Mr Yoc.v®. .
AugvJl 2>. ]
Landing, \
From cn board the (hip Edward, at Walnul
ftrset Wharf,
London particular Madeira Wine, .
©f a superior quality, For Sale by the fubl'cribcr.
Robert Andrews.
November j. eotf
to~b£"soi»d;
Or Exchanged for Property in tie Country,
That three story Brick House,
No. north Third ftre t. Apply at the of
fice of this Oaxc'te. n< v . 1)- -wJrs^w
PHILA DE L P-H I A FRIDAY EVENING,. DECEMBER 8, f 797 .
For Londonderry,
- Jt American Ship
BOSTON PACKET,
q ' perthwa,t > Master,
Ks®SSSiSfcae NOW - j^ e at Wharf,
5 near Vine-ftrett—Has elegant iec/aim«d.iMous for
palTcngers—will Tail, weathfr permitting, on or
' about the loth inft. having ail her cargo engaged'
• . ready to go on board. For passage only,- apply to
• the captain.
Smith & Ridgway,
No 4, North Water fttreet,or to
Jfaac Harvey, "Jim.
No. j, South Water street.
December r § lot
i of Amsterdam,
edwud,
' James Wickham, Maficr,
XPECTED to fail in a few days, having two
thirds of her cargo alr«a«!y engaged, and near,
i ly on board. For Freight or Pa (rage, apply to
, j the Matter on board, at Hamilton's wharf, or to
■! y°bn Donnaldfon,
| No. t], Walout-ilreet.
' I novmber i 8 <jg t
s " Jbor Amlterdam,
fa r m p e r,
r?)*\ l y'^pffV -John M'Coiiow, Master ;
WAX, iMI in a few days, the '
I * ; **- r^-*®v£o >gre:'.:er part of her cargo btntig !
ready. For freight of fifty tous of Coffee, or p '.fr
sage, apply to the mailer on board, at Walnut
fireet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Wha i» Landing,out of the faidShip, froiu Boei
deaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fentiniac,
Sauterne, J- Wines in cases
Lunille, )
Prunes in boxes
november 14. ' f
" ' —' - r
For Liverpool,
7it copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
Captain Silas Swaim.
.CD ' A Large proportion of her
Vri 1 ISSMSBsfS / jL cargo being ready to go on
board, is expe&cd to fail on or about Sjnday, the
3d of December.
For Freight or Passage, apply to the Captain on
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to
PHILIP NICKLIN Qf Co.
ncvember it. 'f J
For Londonderry,
•■yr . TjH* tuoavTim
ffjtjßjL s u KEY,
fpftflWilwam Whittin, Mailer.
Ijjp Afironggood vessel, about two
hundred fens, to fail with all convenient speed, a
great part Of her cargo engaged—now lyiag at
WHliog and Francis's wharf. For freight or paf
fagt, apply tgthe captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
( ivl<arf.
Who wants to Charter.
■ 1 Vts»el of about three hundred ton*.
nov ' 8. / <
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP '
Sally Butler,
is&h* Captain Chisholm,
<"f-A new vessel, with excellent
<r*cj&;Vi93 sccamm( ,tj a tions for passenger*
Sails on the toth of December. Per Freight or 1
Passage, apply to ROSS t5" SIMiQN.
IPL'O-havr U difyufe of, 1
A fraall invoice ol GLAUBER SALTS i
INDIGO, and a parrel of HOLLY WOOD.
novemker 18. ,
For Hamburgh.
The Brig MARY,
Prraa Youk, mailer,
i, Lying at Ruffel's wharf, near Pint
*fyKyißj& Sleet, is now ready to take in a >
Car i?a. will fail in ten days.
For Freight, or Passage, apply to
GURNEY & SMITH.
November l(t. dtl
Rundle Leech,
Have jofl. received, and have for Sale, at no. %
Walnut-street,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT
Do. best honfe CO M.S
Queens' WARE in cases, assorted
Bourdeaux BRANDY of an excellent quality
Do. CLARET in cases, do.
jr*3,-, THFT HAVB also
Q&TT For SALE or CHARTER,
'Jppffi p e t o"g y,
Burthen 215 tons, in excellent condition, and
may be sent to sea with little expenceor delay. <
LIKEWISE, : t
WILUAM,
-Burthen aoi tons, j
november 16-
For Sale or Charter,
The fa& failing brig
Brothers,
rT)' 'Wr Lying at Gurling's wharf,
an excellent fmgle dcck'd vessel, burthen ahow
1600 barrels—not twelve months old, and in
cr>tnpleat order. For terms apply to the mailer
on board, or to j
Jofepb Antheny iff Co.
nor. drw.
Landing this day,
From on Ijoard th* schooner Two Friends, Dan
iel Crawlej', Master,
RUM, % '
FOR SALF BY
Geerge Latimsr Ss 5 Son.
uwember 9.
By John Fen no, N° ri Chef nut Street
tmf sme
C 0 M M ERa F
' Captain Rk-.ii aji» Wai«tcoat, -i
| ~Sfewt3s.' l *V6tti Uvcri">ol ii now diffcfcarjjing
I at M«mS wharf, near rjie Drawbridge, where
, j Owners oS gootU.ui frarift. will,p lenfe speedily to
r fcnatWrjwrmia. Siid vessel will direAly after
r take iu fruifrhtw. very low terms fot'Botton., Ap-
I ply to u»»tafta«n.'»r to
Isaac Harvefo jun.
No. 5, South Water Street.
A few tons offtone, or sand ballafl warned.
Apply as above.
November 27 § rof .
For Sale or CKarter,
Jigk. good^hope,
c " ry a,! ' oyt 1100 WrpU, anfl
is ready to take in » cargo. For terms
a to
Pragers Ssf Co.
» No. 151, bouthScccnd-ftrcct.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
.Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and Tcneriflfe urine.
November 7. v
Port and Madeira-Wine,
Now Landing,
By Clip EdwstnJ, from Madeira, and JSetfey and
PefiSV. fr'Wj Oporto, ia Pipes and Hogs • jilt,
For fait by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO QFFffcS Fek'sAl*,
- The Ship
AMI fr *
Four thoufend barrels burtlwu,
' 5 jcellent prd:r—ready to take
ia a cargo—about three yenn eld.
LIttEWfSS,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 803 barrels, .r«asj *'fo to receive a car->
go—and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Joil landed from the above veffcls at South flrcet
wharf. com. Nov. 1.
JUST RECEIVED, via
And now opening, by GSORUK DOBSON, No
15, fauth Third Greet
An extensive and general aflortment of
HABERDASHERY, viz.
Bell Loodpn mixt Pins Galloons and Ferret?
Common do. do. Worsted Bindings, aiTor-
Makenzie'sfuperpatent ted colours
white chapel Needles Imperial, diaper, and
Nuns Tkr«ad no. 6to Thread Tapes
40, regularly aborted ifhise Edging.
Lille do. no. 130 to joo, coloured Chi
regularly affor:ed aeX'e Ribbands
Coloured do. Satthi aiid figured do.
Black Tewing Silks Black Velvet, 1-4 to ltd
Coloured do. and Twfft Velvet Sc pelon Sattins
Silk and cotton Wico :i French CdbOjrick
Do. do. Ribbands Scotch do.
ah in Moulds and Wires Plain gilt and plated
Black (truth Feathers Buttons
And a compleat affortnjent of Goods, fait able
to .the pi-Mcct and approaching season, at reduced
prices. Dtf. 6. , <Jtf
PROPOSITION.
A handsome and roomy house, with a quanti
ty of good land, within Ti fe W miles of this city.
A House in an eligible situation, and several
Lots in the city.
A valuable body of Land op the river Ohio.
A Iso, many tra&s of fipe Lands (mi)itary
rights) lying hear the Ohio, on the Miami ana
Simo Rivers
Titks art >ll clear, and will be made with un
exceptionable lecurity.
A rtfident cf this city is dcflrous of exchang
ing this property for Goods—'Kail «r Weft India
would he pecferred. ,
If the specie value of those Lands at a distance,
cannot be afeertained futtsJa&orily, tJiey ftrall b«
raced at fuck a ffice as the parchnfer may have it
at his option to return them at tl,e Sued price with
interelf, at the expiration of twelve month*.
Notice left with the Editor ihall be attended to.
December 6. $
FOR SALE, ' ~™
bv the subscribers, No. ft, Pena-ftTeet.,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from £engal,
Comjrflin<g of
Raftas, of various qualities & prices
CoiTaea Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Suzz y do.
Humhums Cbarcontia Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanj.bs
Chintz and Calicoes • Mulmuls
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges Patna Hhkfi.
Oinghams MVilraul do.
Gutzenas Bandannots
Gurrahs -kSiflerfoy
Piniafcocs Choppa Romals
Saigatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals , Persians of variouscolouts
Mock Pulicats
%OQ tons SUGAR
90/300 lb. P£PPER.
Willingi & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges arc now open and exposed to f*le it
that commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth Jlreet. nrv. 10.
LANDING, ~
From on bqwd ths fliip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, frfcm London,
60 toas of the belt clean Rullia
HEMP
60 raflcs os-bottled BROWN STOUT.
F orSalc by the fubfcri'qeri; $Io. ai. Fenn-Areet.
W'tilings y Francis.
Oil. 31. d
J aft arrived.
From Port-au-Fi ir.ee, and for Sale by the fifbfcri
bers, No.ai, Penn-ftreet,
6*2ihog(hcad»,~\
81 f ltrct , s C Prime Coffee
5*3 barrels (
646 bags j
Willings Ssf Francis.
o<a. %%. s_
FOR SALE—by the bU»SCRiae«s,
An elegant aflortment of Madrafs
HANDKERCHIEFS, by thebaic.
WILLINGS V FRANCIS,
nov 21. § Peiiu-ilrect.
Canal Lottery—No. 11.
"TTp'-L tomnxjnee drawing Monday, tlie roth
, W 'rn J }. Tickets for *Jafc tnTi^iS i,at li;y, it*
1 ) o llnri, at W». BLACKBURN'. Lottery
. nnd Brokers Office, No. 64, South Secottid-Tircet—
Tickets in the Sctmylkijl Bridge Lottery, at ,r«.
IfyUtiv, where check liooks arc kept inr regijber
lEg arid examining in ihefe. the City of Wafting
toa, No-11. and f'aterfon Lotteries, and ir.fornia
ticn where tickets may be had jr. nVoft of the Lotte
ries rathoriftd by law m any of the States of the
Union.
N. The bivfisefs of a .Broker, in buying and
felling all kind} rf Public Stock aj)d Securities,
discounting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duty att ended to,
by Wm. bl<vc;ceus.n.
n< vrruber T ". $
Mujical Iriflrument Manufactory,
167, Arch-flreet.
TO THE LOTTitS OF HARMONV.
HARPER,
I NFORMShis friends and the puljic, that lie has
now ready for sale, a few oMwsmew invented,
and mucl} admired fide board Piano Fortes, with 1
Pedals,patent swell, fonopahant and 11 .ucb 4>Jrt>
.stop, which for ferfibility of touch, brilliancy of ;
tone*, (implicit) and durability of cgnJiruftion, the
faperioritv of which,he flatters kimfelf, a single tri
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—they
are manufaflured under his iraniediate iftfpeftinn,
of the very be.' fcafoued mattiials.he can fell 011
realonable terms forCASM. Inftruratnta repaired,
tuned, 4c. '
N. B. Secpni hind Piano Fortes taken in cx
t i/.w.
novemitr 18. I*W3 i<o.
DANCING.
JMs. FRANCIS,
OF the New Theatre, refpedlfully informs the
public, that he r.o longer means to continue
his Dancing SAof l in con.juo.sion with Mr. Byrne,
tyit will open it ftparately early in December, snd
hppesftillto receive the aecpftomed patronage wrtk
which he has been bar ore 1, and which it will be
his constant endeavor to deserve.
Vrivate parties may be inftruifted at his own
house, No. 70, north Eighth street.
November 19. ». eotf
NQW LANDING, "
At South-ftrtw Wharf,
7be Cargo of the Ship Concord.,
Captain Thompson, from Batavia.
About 300 toas firft quality Java Coffee (the
whole having been feleded)
80 tons Java Sugar, in canillers and bags
10 legurcs of aid Arrack
Nutmega, Mace and Cloves
#OB SAJ.X Br
PETER BLIGHT.
Who also •fftrt For Sale,
Just landed from ihip Aroity, from Jamaica.
209 hhds Jamaica Sugar, and
170 do. do. Rum.
noverotifr >3. d<w
Imported in the brig Eliza,
Cap*. Hastie, JirtNn Bourdeaux ;
Claret in U«fes of a very superior quality,
White Sauberni-' Wine in Cases,
Olive Oil in bafcet. of u bottles each,
White and coloured Kid Gloves,
dp. do. Silk do.
A few pipes of HouTPdeaux Brandy,
fn- Sale iy
JAMES 1 A TIMER, jun.
71, South Wharves.
Who has aljb Jer Sale,
A'few qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine.
Pec. ?. diw
y aT j c £
THE partiserfliip hetween Jobnlnstonc and
James Bacon, under the firm, of tnftone and
Bacon, is this day diflolved by mu:uil content.—
All person* who iUnd iadbited to sard firm are
roquclled to make immediate payment of their
r«lpcfl.ive accounts, to J o I}n Skyrin, ou Landen
burger's wharT, who is duly authorised to receive
the fame ; and all persons hiving any demands "a
gainft the feid firm, are desired to bring in their
accounts immediately to him for fettjement.
'John Inflone,
Jams Bacon.
November 20. oodtf
BEEF.
Prime Beef, fit for India voyages, foi sale by
WIIJLIAM SHEAFF,'
Ni». l6Bi Higl)-ftreet.
Also, about fifteen hundred weight erf Beet-
Wax. iltf Nov. 25, 1797.
Library Company of Philadelphia.
THE Members of the Library Company qf
Philadelphia are hereby informed, that the Libra
ry will be open on Monday next, tilt 4th of De
cember, for the reception and delivery of books.
Those who n»g!e>3 to raturij the books, which
had hepi taken out previous to the firft of Septem
ber lall, in the course of the enfuiitg week, will
be fined as the rules direct.
The Loganian Library
Will also be opened gt the fame 'ime, tor the like
purp«fes.
N. B. A few copies of the catalogues of the
books belonging to these institutions may be had
at the Library.
Z. POULSON, JVM- Librarivn,
Library, november 3p.
- All Persons
Having any demands aga'nft tie Eftetc Of the
late Captain George Irwin, are requcfted to
bring in their accounts pioperly attested, on or
before the firft day of January next tnfuing
and those who are indebted to said estate are To
lieited to make immediate payment to
SaRAH IRWIN, Administratrix.
Nov. 29 1797. 4
NOW LANDING,
From on board tlje ftip Farmer, lying at, Harper's
Wharf,
Claret in hhds.
Ditto in cases
Sfluterne Wine in do.
For Sale, appfy to
John White/ide & Co.
I N-o. 138, s arket-flreet.
Also, on hand, I
Bourdeaux Brandy in ptpes
tme old Antigua Rum
A few calcs of Claror, of a superior quality,
For Sale by the Subscriber,
10 bales CoiTas
,*0 <Jo.
11 do. Mamoodjr
'7 do. Chintz
7 Jo. Tookerjr
J do. Gorahi .
lj dp. Maragungees "
3 do Check Stripe*
I do. Guzzie
I box Dupers
7 do. Umbrellas
is pipes fineft particular Madeira Wiae, of
the vintage l~gj.
MORDECAI LEWIS.
Pe<*"*er i.»iw
~
December 1, 1797.
. , , partiierfiiijfi between us, is this day Aj
folved by mutual consent.
William Bates,
P William Darley.
By JOHN MILLER,'JUN. fcf Co.
No. 8,
One hundred end eighty tales
BENGAL GOODS,
/imongft which ars,
Gun ahs Mamoodies
Pa tas Sann*9
GU2~ nalij Titnda Coffaes
G»2.Zi-s Emerrics
Blur C4oths Calicoes
Palanipoors Roman Handkerchiefs .
them are * great proportioa of th«
inanufafliircsßf p*tmr.
December 1. r
'lO L Said, * r^
A Bill on Richmond,
; |Payablc at fight. Inquire at this office.
Dec. 1. 2t
The Subscriber intends to make
appiicati«» for the renewal of a Certificate ofa Share
m the of the United States, (landing in the i.amc
oIA.B. No. 4004, dared July 11, 1797, the fame
having been lolt. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. 1.
To be fold,'
AN FXF.6JANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
story brkk'HpuEe aad Kitcfjeu thereof, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irish tra<ft lane, in tlte
t®wnfbip of Mayamenfing, about one mile from
the .city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at die office of
the Philadelphia Gazetie.
The improvements upon this place,for ta% *n4
elegance, (tand unrivalled.
December 1. dtf
Mrs/ GXATTAN,~ r
Tl E3RECTFULLY informs the L»dies«nd Gen-
X\- denven of the City, that ihe propoies having
Four CONCERTS and BALLS during the winter.
Six Dollars each Subfcriker, for one Tipket of
admittance the season.
No Subscriber* Tickets traiihftmbl..
Two Dollars a single Ticket.
The Concert to begin at half pad Gi, and the
Bind to attend for the Ball at elghfc— the cxpence
of which Mrs. Grattan engages to discharge.
The Concerts will begin as soon as the Band «•
rives frotn N4w York.
Sobfcriptioris received, and Tickets deliv
ered at No. Ipx, Market ftfeet.
navemby 19. < JW
Chocolate and Mustard,
of a superior quality manafailnred,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; flielled or
pearl Barley ; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale and Cyder J Tauntem and Burton Ale ;
London F • ter ; red. Port and Lifljon Wine,
faitaMe for exportation or home consumption.
The highell p/ice given for Mustard-Seed.
Also for/ale, A quantity of Backing and
common Baieee, a variety of colors ; a balfeof
Fuflians, Shawls, &c, for sale bv
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, foutb Front-Jlreet.
»7- m.&th.t.ij.
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rite in nubole and half tierces
Bomdeaux Brandy
TeneriJJe Wine
M»laJej
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Rat-ens Duck and one bogjhead of petit
brvj/bei.
N. (s* y. Frn-z.tr.
No. 9j, Sentb Front Street.
N °-"- 7- dim
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
THIS DAVIS PUBLISHED, in one vol.o&avo.
By Wi,lliam Young, Bookseller,
No. 51, Second ftrect, the corner of Chel'nut ilreet,
(Price, in Lcjfdi 8711 Cetlti)
Neatly printed on fine Ameriotn wove medium
Paper,
A V JEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles established in ths elenierits
of Medicini', of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M. D.
With an attempt to correA some important er
rors df'tbat work, and cases in illustration, chief
ly felefled from the records of their piMflice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br William Yates £3* Cum. Macisak.
To which is ftibjoined, a Treatile on theatSioii
of Mercury npbri living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diseases of indirect debility
And a dissertation onthe fonrces of £;>ideinicaßd t
Piftiietitia.l riife^faa; in whithisattempted topi-ove
by aiiumerons induftion of fais\e, that they ne
ver ariie'from cqntagion, but »re always produ
ced by certain states, or certiin vicissitudes <Jf
the atmosphere, by Charles Maclean, of
Calcutta.
"Qv- 2'. g-ITt
To be Sold,
A Valuable Plantation,
i *
Of upwards of One Hundred Acres of Land,
welt watered, in a healthy situation, abpiut
■fever, miles from this City ; the buildings may bt
made to accommodate a large fsmily, at a mode
rate expense, and poffefTion hiid in a few weeks.
Part «f tlx purchrrfe-money being paid, a rea(en
able credit will be allowed for the remainder.
Enquire of the Printer,
r.ovembcr 3 mwftf
[VoiVMB XII."EJjt <sascttc. S
■ obiigi
P H 1 L A D E L P si 1 A , value
FRIDAY EVENINO, 6B'c&MJtER 8. now.
,.,ii 111 Miifa ' "■— only
CONGRESS. fhoul
HdU.SE OF representatives.
H'.r;
THURSDAY-— DECEMBER 7. OppO
Mr. Dvight Foster, from the Commit- q,' iC
tee of Claims, made a report upon the Pe- q{
ct" Andrew Pepen, con,:u, ring in one lcad
wkich had heretofore been made by ttie Sec- 3 | rea
retiry of War, unfavorable to the Petition- clain
er , arid allowing him to withdraw hts Petit clu ; n
tion, which was concurred in by the Houk. the f
Mr Coit moved for the order oi the day Q <
on the report of the Committee of Eleftrons prop
Oil the Memorial of Robert RutiKi ford,
ivhic'i being agieed to, the House revived a fu .
into a Committee of the hole on baiK
the fubjea, Mr. Dert in the Chair. -1 be a „ d
Repa-t it will be recolkfted, ftited that the gnd
proofs whiob had been adduced by the Ie- ever
titior.tr :n of his allegations agamft ed a
the tlectiou of General Morgan, were mfuf- tf ,..
ficient. and
On n>otiqn being made to concur. Jf tl
Mr. Mccpn said he did not know whe- t]l ; s
ther the Petitioner was present or apt. I t p er |
was usual, he said, to place a chair .or Peti- a
tinners in such cases, to give them an oppor- (kn
tunity of being heard in support ot their
njoffioriaW. If Mr. Rutherford were present thc
He hoped the usual course would be taken. pre
," Mr. Coit had no objection to the pro- not
/posed formality, though he-believed the
I tioi
titioner was not present. _ _ car ]
Mr. Mason said, as he w« informed the
Petitioner was not in the House, there was
80 need of providing h.m a cn».r. bei
The Committee rose, and the Hout con- to ,
enrrc lin the Report. j . ref<
Mr. T. Claiborfte said, that. ; duting'the wr
last Winter, a Report:had been made by the the
Committee ofClaims, on the Petition, of A- Ml
itiv Dardin, unfavourable to the Petitioner. j, ac
which, after a full difcuffldn, had been dif- fur
agreed to by the House, and on the 14th ; n
of February a motion for appainting » Com- tQ
mittee to bring in a bill for her relief was p e]
made and Committed to a Committee of the vec
Whole, but for want of time had not been s on
acted upon'. He now wished to bring the q Q
matter before the House, and for that purr I am
pose moved that a Committe be appointed
to bring in a bill for the relief of Amy Dar- th|
din. .. ■ T J thi
This motion met with oppoCtion. It re j
will, per hap", lie recollefied that this, fcr
though a strong elaim,. in point of jultice, co
i*s directly iri the face of the Limitation Act.
Messrs. Macon,, Sitgreaves and Harper, {h
W'ed the matter to go again to the Lorn- h?
"itce of Chi®!, as many Members, now ho
in the House, "/ere unacquainted with the M
merits of the claim, "d the latter Gentle- uj
man because he thought the Houle had been CQ
furprif-d into a decision, contrary to fifty t j,
oxh« determinations on similar
which ought now to be «/erfed.— Mr.C ai- m
borne opposed this course, and trusted the , {
House would again be influenced by the w
iuftice of the claim, to as they had here- re
tofpre done, by passing a Bill for the-rehef ?(
, of the Petitioner. Mr. Gatat'O thought
it would be bell to commit the bus.ness to 1
the fame Committee of the Whole to wh't: l * I 0
yefterdaryreferred a Report of the f ,
Committe of Claims on tlie fubjeft of except- j
ing a certain defcnption of claims from thc e
operation cf that Aft. The business was, g
however, closed by Mr. Claiborne » With- e
drawing his motion, for the _ -jo
Mr. Sitgreaves presented the 0
Israel Jones, in behalf of'Joftiua Abridge, t
praying for a settlement forfuppbes furmfli- a
ed for the United States during the war— t
Mr S. slid, thought his «laim appeared to £
be barred by the Statute of Limitation, yet ,
there was a ciicumftance attending it which
v he fnppofed would operate 10 its favour.
Application was made in due sea.on for fet
dement, but it was prevented by the want
of certain formalities. Referred tq ; t ell
Committe of CUi ms < ,• . r , I
Mr Nichohs called up for decision the
.Refolutiou which he lately laid on the table -
directing the Committee of Ways and Means
to report a Plan for raiting a fufEcient Rt
vgmie to meet the Deferred Debt, which be
comes payable in the year 1801.
Tlija Resolution was put and carried 43
l °Mr. Lyon said, as this Resolution bad
x. nirrr-d to, he would propose another, J
tf r" Z ret connected with it. It ap
at the ,im<
direaW the- Committee of Ways and
to turn their attention to retrenching unne
celfarv expenees. He therefore proposed
£e following motion for the adoption of
,h t Rclblved, that the Committee of Ways
• Ao °s ht ! h<beft
t ,11 s uc h refolut ions as the present
f 1 them to the committee of the
"•° receive full discussion. He meantto
Sle made this obfervat ion before the last
VU uaffed. He was by no means- oppo
sed to the resolution, but was of opinion
, U \,e the belt reference it could
* W °H e fuggefled the propriety of the
"' mT' 'i"! 0 " 1 ''
, tlic bill which had been reported for
t T A*fof Mrs. Carmichael, which being
jU to the bouse rcfolved itfelf into a
Bgre mitt-'ofthe whole on the fubjea, Mr.
Scathe chair, When, the biH having
bC A moveJ.to introduce a cla.ife
£ -he a'lowanee of interest upon the sum
&JSA. be granted to the w.aow, from
the thai at tfh>cb the applicltton made i« an o
to government for p'aymeut, on tlie ground llot so
•f the heirs cf Mr. Carmichael luvjng b:~n i li
obliged to mortgage his estates to their full longs
value, for the want of the money which was any p;
nowallowrdto bejuflly theirdue ; it was
only reafonablc therefore, he said.that they will r
jhbuld receive an fatcrtft equal tothat wuich as we
they had been obliged to pay. and ' r
Thin motion was fuppbrted by MeffrN ty ot
Harper,S.Smith, Sewall, and Rutl'edge.and ;ormi
opposed by Messrs. Varnum, J. Williams, a (bar
Gc.doa„Coit and Editiond. on the groun.l more
of its beiug .jipprecedcntei ; as it inijht hrft a.
lead to applications from persons who, had "t op
already been,diHeren'.lv dealt with ; that the adjnii
claim not being a'le^aS,. but, an .equitable 'tejpe
claim, and ipmewhat of a doubtful nafurein | P e
the minds of ; some gentlemen, the {Petition ( exspe)
ought to bs.fatisfied with, receiving the sum toim
1 proposed to b£ alloweo, particularly iince it ; gove
' was not by any means certain that so large J the c
a sum had been expended by her late huf- . sons
' band, in his capacity of charge des affaires, men!
; and when it was reeollefted how many just hcan
and legal claims of our own citizens were g6ve
every day abandoned. Mr. Williams touch- pott
k edat tht necessity there was of curtailing ago
the expences of our diplomatic department; c ° n '
and it was suggested by Mr. Gordon, that thu
if (he house were to set up a precedent of nte
■ this kind, it might give encouragement to rmti.
• persons who i had claims upon government,
' of a doubtful nature, to hold them back com
" (knowing if they were allowed at all, they the i
r should have an interest allowed alio upon 1 ei
| their demand) until a convenient time should nati
present itfelf, at which, perhaps, it might stis
riot be poflible to bring forward the objec- nati
" tions which might have been pwduced at an
earlier period. . ■ d f
e Tjiia. iJebate continued for some time, wnc
IS when Mr. Macon objefled to the bill as not dm
bting conformable to the ini\ru£lToni jrivtn we
t-o the cowmittee who brought it in. ihe P n<
resolution of the house authorized the offi- • " at
ls aers of the treasury tj fettle the account. If , we
le the bill, he said, bad been thus drafted, and iPy
Mr. Franklin, Mr. Laurens, and others j nt
'• had been allowed interest, the trea- ant
fiirY department would lit) wave allowed it I t c
in this cafe. It was not usual for that house
n " to fettle accounts, but toauthorife the pro- e°
ns per department to do it. He therefore mo- tia
114 ve4 for the comTnittee to rife. This opin
:n ion and motion yvere fopported by Maffrs. lc
Coit, Edmond, Venable, and Matthews ; P«
irr and were opposed by Messrs. Gallatin, Har- ""
e d p er an j[ Graik. Mr. G. maintained that ®
the bill, though not ftriflly confo-mahle to « ] i
I tl\e letter, was agreeable to the spirit of the c
L I refolutiou .of the house ; that this cafe dif- 01
"• fcred from thufe where the precise sum due ma
:e ' could be afoertained at the treasury ; , here P 3
there was a discretion to be eicercifed, ai to K'
er ' I the amount of the sum to be allowed, and
m " bethought it better to be exercifcd by the 1C
' m house, than by the officers of the treasury.
he Mr. Ciaik believed, if noexprefsfum agreed m '
' e ~ upon, no relief would be granted, as the ac- at
■ en count-could not, in cafe, be adjusted by
y I the accouuting ofiicriaof the j
The motion for the committee to rife, in
lai_ order to have the bill recommitted, was at 111
t ' l< " I length put and carried 43 to 38. Leave ?'
wafrefufed to fit again, and the bill was
>«- reoommittcd to the committee who rep«rt
led it> , ,
? ht A communication was received from the I
Ito Treasury department, containing an account J
I of the receipts arid expenditures at the trea- I
the f or the quarter ending the 38th of r
■P 1 " June last, and those of the War Department,
the ending on the 30th of June and the 30th of
y as ' I SeptembeY, which were ordered to be print- j "
itb- The Treasury account up to the end j
los December yvas promised in a few days, j''
II I Mr. Harper moved that this communica-
e ' I tion be referred to the committee of ways 1
ufll_ and means ; but this reference being dated j;
r - to be unusual, as the fubjea was before the
to I committee of ways and mean 3, of course, he I
1 I withdiew the motion. Adjourned. I
hich J -
•ftt- PORTSMOUTH, (N.H.) Nov. 25. t
vant On Wednesday last agreeably to adjourn- 1
the mcnt, the Hon. General Court convened in c
I thit town. I
the I The bon. Staate being atfembled with 1
table the house in the rcprefentatives chamber,
leans His Excellency the Governor came in el-
Re- I cortcd by the committee, rfnd addrefled the I
h be- with the following
SPEECH:
d 43 I FtUvw-Citiaens of the Senate,
and of the Ucufc of Rcprefentatives,
had In meeting you at this time when the
,ther, tranquility, general health and profpenty of
[t zp- the ft ate afford £0 much cause for mutual
they I congratulation, may I not invite you to join
s and ' me in renewed expressions of gtatitude to I
enue, the sovereign difpoferof events for the cotv
unne- tinuation of.his providential care. _ I
posed To unite our utmost endeavours to im-
BQ of prove and strengthen the agreeable Hate o.
eur internal affairs, mull be a pleasing em-
Ways ploynaent* • I
iether The constitution of the Hate requiring
may, that " a valuation of the estates within the
c Ex- state lhall be taken anew once in every five
years at least". referring to the the tune
of dif- when the last was taken, I presume it will
resent be thought necessary in the present session
of the to provide for a new valuation,
e they Gentlemen of the House of Keprefentattves,
ant to Although I have repeatedly expressed my
ie last fentimcnts refpefling taxes, I cannot omit
oppo- a Iking your attention to the fubjea at this
pinion time, confiden'ng that it is always wile in a
couid time of peace and tranquility to make pi e
of the paratior, for such changes of circumstances
3 mor- as may happen in the course of human e
vents.
3 f the Gentlemen of the Senate and
t! d for Gentlemen of the Hvufe of Representatives.
being- Standing armies in times of peace being
into a burdenfomc to the people and dangerous to
, Mr. liberty, a well regulated milita i. wifely con
having tidered as the natural and only iafe defence
of republican governments - under this per
claufe suasion, a spirit highly Patriotic been
ie sum manifell in a multiphcity_ of mftanccS as it
, from rcfpe£ts the militia of thi3 Aate j yet tflere
: ijt an opinio* ptevritog tbat the bunheii is j The
I hot so equally borne as it ought to be. | wmch
i The general regulation of the militia be- , and of
1 longs to our national government, but if in j accQUn
s any particulars you should think proper to j othcru
8 facilitate the bulinefs, your determination : merei a
r will meet mv ready Uttention ; connected j been p
h as we are with the United btatcs, our duty : in the
and interest combine to evince the proprie- | ty m
ty of contemplating our national affairs. In fmalli
J forming that fyftern of government we had thouf
i, a share ;'a Tyftem which I doubt not is now has fu
.1 more generally approved than vvhcnjt was. sand i
k t tirft adopted, rtotwithftamting any difference ( h
dos opinion whjtch ariftti. refpeibng the this!
Ie idjnjwiftrWioi) of it in any particulars with ing
le i-e. r pcA tu foTtigfi nations. Cong
in i Perfection in human affairs i« not to be of tli
m 1 e*pe&ed ; t<J fatisfy every citizen is next and v
m * to impossible ( hut if our system of national quern
it ■ govenimenlMs generally good.; if we have felt I
ft I the choice a 9 frequently as we wish, of per- fuffei
■f_ | fans to adm;aifter it; if one of, 'our tunda. one)
. s , I mental and irreversible principle? in a repub- may
id lican government is that a majority shall los a
re g6vern, iq ft not proper to give ? firm sup- I Fran
h_ port to tI»S lawsand adrninjftration of such in ju
no- a government, and for every citizen dulyto this
it; CQnlidcr far clanaour and opposition by t
,at thereto has invited, or procured, or may in- | for i
of vite and procure injuries from any foreign j have
to nation. I
at, The depredations on our navigation and own
ck commerce must not only be fen fibly felt by Frar
lC y the immediate individual fufferers, but con- Con
on fidered as a great injur)' and indignity to the to 1
ild nation—to prevent the future and procure j that
; ht fatisfaftion for the past, appertains to our the
ec- national government. land
an To guard our rights, and fully and can-1 but<
didly examine the Conduit of erery one part
nc, whose appointment we have a, voiee in, is a 1 we c
Hot duty incumbent on every citizen ; but should j out
k - tn we in JnVy future'iime neglect or mifuft) our I
'he privileges Viitfl we ! find ourfebea either in a j
,ffi. ; state of afnarchy, fit governed by tyraiKs, I Cap
If. we must tken loakJttck to the prcfent hap-1
md I Py date with deep regret for ihe loss—a I Shi
i £rs which perhaps may not be regained I Shi
■ ea _ | until the blood of many cili/.eus is shed as JBn
$ it I the price. ' J ® r |
, u s e In our constitution it i* cxprefsly dcclar- j Bn
)rO . Ed that " knowledge and lear»mg are effen-1 Bri
tjq. tial to the preservation of a tree govern- 1 Bri
3 j n . ment," and that "it lliall be the duty of Br
(f r9> I the legislatures and magistrates in all future IBr
vs . periods of this government to eherilh the I Sn
jar- iutereft of literature and the sciences, and I 6c
hat all seminaries and public CchooL" —And it I
. to ' 3 also declared " the legislature (hall affem-1
(be ble for the redrefsof public grievances, and I
dif- f° r making such laws as the public good I
may require!'—Coming a< you do from all I
here parts of the state, if there are any public
ito grievances you must know them, also what I
and laws the intereftsof literature and the pub- I
the be good may require. _
ury _ Permit me to a(k that a due attention C;
reed ma T be paid to the fubjed of all public laws
■ ac- I at an early period ia the folnoD, that time I
j may be given for their, thorough confidera-
Ltioo » «">d be affiired gentlemen that it is lire
• e | among the lirft wishes o/ my heart to be in
s' at ftrumentaj in promoting the peace and pros
perity of the community.
wis J°^ N TAYLOR GILMAN.
, ort . Stall of bletu-Jfamg/lire,
Nov. 23, 1797-
' NEW-YORK, Dee. 4 .
tr „ Curious problem to be folvedbytbe " pa- cl
irca-1 , ty
h of tnotß
- In'thc United States the repubbcans fay "
th of l^e bouse of representatives, is the only ge- <•'
jrint- I nu i ne representation of tht people. They con
eU(j fider the executive and senate, as aristocrat-
I a ic bodies ; not being eledted by the people, d
nrc'a- I an( * therefore objefls ofjealouly.
'I In France, the republicans consider the P
[Tted council of five-hundred, tlie democratic j'
t branch, as the foe# of liberty, and the direc-
f C he tor y as 'be friends of the people. How is
j' this apparent contradiftion in the republican
6 ' system to be How happens it j
that in France, the men elected by the elec- I
25. I tors of the people's be unde
journ- J fervingof the people's confidence, .while the j
aed in | directory engross the whole ? Yet in the <
1 United States,thereverfe (hould take place ? (
with I This is SmyHery we with our found-headed ]
imber, I patriots would unfold. 1
in ef- I The character of the French, under the. 1
ed the I monarchy, was that of an active, subtle, pe-
I netrating, jovial people. The character is
j substantially the fame now ; but the traits
I are more strongly marked with energy ; and
I to the foftening given to their manners by
en the j a politeand brilliant court, hasbeen fubftitu
rity of! ted a ferocious pride and'dogmatifm in theii
mutual I new principles, which' render them as intol
to join I erant towards the advocates of the old go
ude to I vernment and religion, as ever the old court
ie cotv I was toward the protestants, in the nfdft bl-
I g'otted times. A ftauiich FiVnch repub*
to im-1 lican is <fs much a bigot to his democracy,
tate of !>s the duke of Guise was to popery,
ig era- In former times the French nation fur-
I nifhed England, Germany, Holland and o
quiring I ther countries with cooks, hairdreffrrs and
hin the dancing matters, and wherever there was a
cry five I Frenchman, there was noise, life and vivac
e time ity. Since the revolution, the French have
it will 1 changed their hornpipe and cotillion steps
; session j forthe quick march, advance and rightabout
I face ; and 3p,CQQ of tjsem are spread over
es, I Geimany a;id ltaly teaching the people the
:(fed my J fame republican seeps- They are teaching
)t omit the Germans audeltalians to dance,
at this I
rife in a ALEXANDRIA, Nov. 30.
ike pre- French Spoliation..
nftances To the Editor of the Columbian Mirror,
iman e- Sir,
I inclose you a lift of veflels and cargoes
which have been taken by French priva
ives. teen, and condemned in their ports, sll
:e being except one, I believe within the lad nine
erous to months, owned by merchants and others of
elycon- this town—there may, however, be more ;
defence certain I am, there arc not less than 2la
this per- On a calculation of the tonnage, I find it
has been to upwards of three thousand tons
:es E3 it 1 r*nd the value of velfels and cargoes not left
'ct tltere I than three hundred dollsrs.
] The fcaiwity of tht circulating medium
J which pervades all ranks of the community,
! and of which every one complains, is ealily
j accounted for; anu, indeed, how can it be
j otheryife, when We consider that the com
! mercial body of the United States have
I been plundered on thefeas ofproperty, with
jin the la ft 1.3 months, to upwards of twen- P" ri ' "
:ty millions ; and particularly, that this we < "j lav
fniall town which does not contain 6,000
thoufnnd inhabitants, of all descriptions,
has sustained a loss. of three hnpdred thou
-1 sand dollar,), within the last nine nionths. , .
'[ have been.led partly, ,lp tr?pfmit you
this lift of captures, in consequence of read
-1 l'ng yetterday the Prtfident's Spee.h to • P
Congress. The force with which he speaks
: of tlie importancs of trade to the intereil .
t and welfare of the country, and the confe- | g w j t2
1 quent propriety of prpte&ing it, must be
e felt by all ; is also with the design that thp
-1 fufferers, (of which, Mr. Editor, I am
. one) when they perceive t-he aggregald'lofs,
1- may take it into thar-confi«Jeration, in cafe
111 of a failure of an amicable settlement with p. sent
1- J France, whether the United States are not w^o j
h in justice bound to make cotnpenfation to
« j this class of citizens for the lofles sustained QQ
nj by them in putfuing a lawful commerce ; e ( v j u
1- t for it is notorious, that this body of men ; '
;n j have been facrificed, and last fefiion of Con- .
J grefs were prohibited from arming in their 1
id I own defence, for fear' of giving offence to |
iy France. If therefore in the wisdom of
a-1 Congress it was deemed neccffar.y, in order
ie I to keep peace with the French Republic,
re j that one class of citizens lhould fuffer for
ir I the good of the •whole, I hold it but jwft t£r p
I and reasonable that the whole fliould contri- rr
n-1 bute to pay the losses thus incurred by this
ae j particular body of men ; otherwise, what ,
a j we call the facial cumpiS is but a name with-
Id I out a meanitig. r
ur A SUFFERER
l a I By French Spoliation.
ts, j Captured by French Cr.dxfrs and condemned. . f ,
p! Dollars Wal
-a I Ship Sally and cargo io/300 (|
ed I Ship Polly &i Nancy and cargo 20,c00
as | Brig Jeffr and cargo 15, Coo
j Brig Hope and cargo 18,000
ar- J Brig Nancy and.cargo. ' 20,000
en-1 Brig Virginia and cargo 30,000
m- Brig L yuia and cargo 10,000 l
of j Brig Joseph and cargo 20,000
are I Brig Polly and cargo 10,000 (
the I Snow Hope and cargo 25,000
ind I Schr. Juno and cargo 16,000
Jit I Tndullry and cargo 10,000
:m-1 Polly end cargo 10,000
and! Friendship and cargo "10,000
jod j Maria and cargo 10,000
all 1 Little Industry »ud cargo 4,000
blic I Lucy and cargo 19,000 .
hat Pardgon and cargo 12,000
«b- Hannah and cargo 12,000
Hopewell and Cargo 16,000
tion Cargo of schooner Maria 14,000
aws I ] e .
ime , Dollars 302,000
era- The valuation of the above I believe to
it is j tic omfiJn nbfymWCT ilic Cost.
rof- \
From LONDON PAPERS.
I ' at
I. *IV INTELLIGENCE.
The Kino v. Samuel Weston, Ef.
"This indictment was preferred against the
defendant by Mr. Mardcr, jun. brandy-mcr
< p a . chant, of Weymouth. It appeared that Mr. ft
Marder had at the beginiug df the wsr, en- rr
s fay relied himfelf to serve in the Weymouth 1]
f g e . corps of Volunteers, of which Mr. Welton e
con- had the command ; in confjquence of Mr.
crat- Marder's frequently absenting himfelf on is
ople, days of exercise, and refufing payment of his p
fines incurred by such absence, he was ex
r the - pellet from the said corps, and at their in- f
ratic ftigation Capt. Wefton publicly disgraced c
lirec- him, by posting him in printed ha id bills c
ow is fer ve d by the captain. i
rlican Mr. Gibbs, on behalf of the prosecution, f
ns it proved the printing and publishing the li-,
elec- bel. .
unde- Mr. Dallas then addressed the court and i
le the jury. He assured the jury that much would 1
1 the depend 011 the verdift they this day pronoan- 1
dace ? ced, in as much as it would affeft the disci- I
eaded pline of every volunteer c6rps in the king
dom. It was for the jury to judge of the 1
r the. intention as well as the law, as every item
le, pe- in the hand-bill carried striCt fadts, and he
iter is had no doubt but they would acquit thede
traits feadant on these grounds.
; and Judga-Lawrence, in fumniing up the ev
srs by idence, pointed out the law as it ftoodas to
oftitu- libels and direaed the jury to find a vc.rdia
1 tbeit for the prosecution. The Jury before tljey
intol- gave their verdift, addressed the Judge, fay-
Id go- ingythat they were not fatisfied as to his
.court explanation of the law in this cafe, being of
jft bl- opinion, that as Mr. Marder had not stood
epub- up to the spirit of the articles of enrolment
cracy, he had signed, he dtferved the public ccn
fure the corps had infti&ed. The Judge
n fur- folemoly thefe circumstances were
ind o- not for their consideration, as the law was
rs and clear that this hand-bill was a libel, and a
was a gain directed the-jury to find a verdi& for
vivac- the prosecution. The jury retaining the.r
h have opinion, acquitted the defendant.
3 steps At Norwich assizes the guard totheTel
t about egraph coach from Yarmouth to London re
i over covered Sol. damages from the coachman,
pie tlie by whose careleffnels in dririug, his leg was
aching broke. Witham and two old offen
ders, who escaped from' goal, and were ap
prehended by a breeches-mak-er, from whom
they had stolen some breeches, and who re
cognized his work 011 the limbs of the for-
Vlirror. mer, were sentenced to death.
cargoes FOR SALE,
priva- BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ins, sll Madeira Wine, firft quality, in
aft nine pipes
thers of Madeira Wine, New-York quality, >in pipes
more ; Liftwn WINK, in pipe»
121. } of the htea im r ortation ' in
find it Spanish Wool, in Bale?, suitable for Hatters.
md tons Witlings & Francis,
not left Penn ftreor, No. 21.
Nov. t. w&stf
By yesterday's Muii.
Dec. 6.. . 1
"By the packet Queen Charlotte, captain
Clemens, we are favoured with London p'i~ _
pers to the evening of 0&. 7, (being 5. 4»i's
later than our former advices) from which
we have fele&ed the moil material articles
as will be found under the different foreign
heads. \
From these advices we are more confirm- ,
ed in our former opinion that hoflilities
will be recommenced on the continent of
( Europe. Every movement and operation
, announces this further ajjptal to arms.
t • Several of the lately transported deputies
_ | fr»fn Paris have efcSped, and arrived in
„ Switzerland. Carnot, the late prefidentof
* the executive dire&ory is among the num-
ber. He had arrived at Thun, and was said , t!
to have brought with him a considerable futa ,
■' of money.
r Letters from Bade, mention that the
French ecclefiattics and other emigrants,
who-had returned to Fianse, were haften
j ing back to Switzerland", and that at lead
6000 had pafled through that city. No v
' , asylum being offered in Switzerland, the
i _ t greater part had been obliged to join the ar
my of the prince of Condr.
j The British fleets still continued to block
u£ Cadiz—and the Texel.
Buonaparte had arrived at Ve
nice! She occupied the palace of~More(li—-
' and. was received with uncommon splendor.
The king of Spain has given the daugh
■ ter of the infant Don Louis, his uncle, in
• marriage'to the prinee of peace. [This man
a few years since was a private in the Garde
| Corps.]
.1 We do not observe any accounts of our a
Commiflioners at Paris.
The following is said ta be the arrete ot~
the directory which was the oi. lord,
Mahnelbury's returning to London,
aiS Arrete of September 11.
00 " The executive directory hereby order,
°° that citizens Treilhard and Bonnier, yrh<j
°° | art charged to negociate,? peace with Eng
| (in the fiifl conference with lord ,
'"° I Malmefbury, minister plenipetcijtiary of the
'°° king of England) lay before his lordship a
°° note, the objedt of which fliall be to know
>CO if that minister is veiled with fufficient pow
>o° er to rettore to France and her allies, allcap
>C? I tures, &c. which have been taken pofTeffion
j of by the English since the commencement
300 of the war. The plenipotentiaries are de
~°° I fired to request an answer from his lordship
oO ° j the fame d»y.
000 1 (i The executive direftory further publish,
000 that if lord Malmefbury declares himfelf uot
000 I invested with the n«ce(Tary powers to eftab-
OCO I lifh that basis *hich the rights and treaties
000 1 which unite the republic render jndifpenfj;
OCO I ble, or if he does not give a peremptory ap
-000 I fwer in the time appointed, he Is ordered IQ
! leave Lisle in 24 hours, and repair to his
' co ° j court for Xufficient powers." .
ire to This arret wps placarded in all the ftrepts
J of Paris.
j Three per cent consols, in London, were
. at 48 cash, 49 on time, on the evening of
I the 7th OiStober. (War prices. J *v
[ !, the VIENNA, September 19,
-mer- The unexpected return of Count Meer-,
t Mr. feldt, who has been here since the 17th, ha»
, en- I mads.-every hope of peace vanish. They
louth speak of nothiug but war, and a war carri
efloii edon to the utmost extremity.
Mr. The A ufic Council of this Department
If on I is in permanence, and the utnsotl activity
of his pervades the Arsenal
is ex- The Executive Dire&nry of France has
rir in- [ fenl its Ultimatum, which our court cannot
raced or will not, accept- Nothing is said of its
1 tiills contents. —This news has made a terrible
■ sensation amoogll the inhabitants of all claf
ution, fes in this c pital.
he ];. • September 20.
The intelligence of a new Revolution a't
rt and Paris has cauied a great sensation in our Ca
would binet. Immediately after the news of it
>noaa- reached Udina, Gjcn. Meerfeldt set out for
disci- this city, where he has arrived. The dis
king- patches he has brought with him contain the
7 f the refoluttons of the present Government at
y item Paris, relative to peace. The French ap
ind lie pear no longer to shew that compliance we
thede- had hoped.
■jj ev - MILAN, September 13.'
das to Buonaparte lias received by several Couvi
verdidl ers from Paris, circuroftantial accountsof the
e tliey late revolution there ; and the ultimaturti '
;e, fay- the Direftory relative to the negociation.
to his
ring of The French minister, M. Declue, who
t Hood arrived yesterday. morniug at the house of
olment M r . Canning with difpatche* for Lord
c cen- Malmefbury, we find came express from U-
Judge dina, the feat of the negociarton between
"S were the French Republic and the Emperor to
iw was Paris. He continued there but 12 hours,
and a- when he was dTpatcl\ed to Lisle, from which
itt for place he proceeded to England. On his ar
g their rival at the house of Mr. Canning, a-fpecial
messenger was sent for lord Milmtffbury who
he Tel- arrived in town about noon, and the French
idon re- courier delivered his packet into his «wb
ichman, hands. Lord Malmefbufy prudently recom
leg was mtrtidcd the Frenchman to t< (:de inthe house
d offen- 0 f one of the melTengei*s of State, until his
■ere ap- answer fhou'd be pir;pare'd for hiui, which he
n whom said would be very fooft. What the nature
who re- of the dispatch * , wq leave oar political
he for- ' readers to divine ; it is only certain, that,
be what it may, it produced no sensation
1 011 the funds. They rofc in the morning in
deed to 49 five eights, but they suddenly
fell back to 49, and finally closed at 49
ty, in one fourth a three eights. Those persons
who draw conditions, as to the nature of
pipes unexplained reports, from the Kapreflion
they made on the flocks, can form no judg
,in V-xes rnent therefore from the appearances of yes-
Hatters. terday.
f It is said indeed that the dispatch has no
, r . rel.ereWtv to the late negociation at Lisle ;
"w&stf and a fuppolition has been formed which i)
.not improb-i'■ Tt tnat Lord MftiiUl'f- b.'lie
bury was ia cofrefpandeace with either a offer.
Britiih ageut at iTdi'n.i, or with the Imperi- T
al coramiSioner, as we know, that, he was fente
in the habit of fending and receiving co,uri- a cir<
ers direffly from Lisle to Vienna and else- Dut<
where ; and it is p«>bable that this ,was a remi
difpatcb forward-id to him from Italy m the has t
idea of brs being (till in France, and which niarlc
the Direftflry sent after-hfm to England. -J had
We mention this a* a probable conjeifture ; D'A
and it is likely that by this means ministers use o
have received an account of the precise state Swis
of the- important negociatious at Lisle. T
Otftobcr rt. liave
M. Define, the French courier, acconi- 00 tl
pa,lied by Mr. Shaw, the King's Meffrir- t T t<
ger, set out yesterday evening for France, us tc
with the answer of the British Cabinet to prob
dispatches received from the Exe«utive Di- peac
redloryon Tuesday morning last. Nothing T
has yet officially transpired relative io the deat
nature of this reply, but the reports "hi the A
nainiftetial circles are ia some degree favor- Irel.
able to the wishes of the friends of peace. Bie
A council of all th« cabinet ministers was _ 1
held yesterday morning at Lord Grenville's iiav<
office, when the answer for the dispatches j St.
from the French Dire£Wy was fully deter- aifo
mined upon.
Oftober 7. y on
Paris journals up to the +th in ft. were re- ing
ceived in town yesterday morning, and we to r
have felefted from them the most interesting aad
extrafts. The fnoft impisrtant intelligence tem
they contain is an order of the Executive pea
Dire&o'ry, dated the nth of Sept. which 1
fully coirfirms th- opinions we have so fre- frot
quently delivered of the 6nreafonable and fort
exorbitant pretensions of our ambitious ri- Val
val. Nothing (hort of a complete reditu- whi
tion of all the possessions taken by England is a
'from France and her allies during the course
ef the war, will now fatisfy the avidity of Bai
tbe French faflion ; and these concessions La
they call upon iu to eflablifli as the basis of Bai
Ov> lord Malmcfb'ury's re- Dei
fufal to accede to this pyopofition, he was Ra
prdered to leave Francfc in 24 hours, aud re- R;°
tum to his court in order to obtain the re- P'«
quifite powers to treat on the grouads alio- At
ded to. Hence the sudden ruptufe of the Mt
negociation, 3nd unless the French Direfto-
tv from cooler'confideratrons bt induced to
relax the rigour of this principle, there are
but faint hopes left that the negociation will
' soon be renewed with any effe£t. To such
humiliating conditions the pride of England ■=
can never bow ; we have therefore only to Ex
prepard with fpirft and with vigour to meet
an alternative which our earned endeavours
for a peaee have been unable to avert. a J
Letters from Udina of the 10th ult. state
conference took place the preceding day, a
between the Austrian and French plenipo
tentiaries, and that the French troops had ha
orders to fend back to Ferrara their 1 '
their wometr and children. The whole ar- '
my was to be ready t© Jriarch on the zjti lel
■ult. " a
From Milan and' Genoa that an v «
attempt haS been made to overturn the new
Ligurian Republic; but the patriot, affiil
ed by the French, soon succeeded In crush- ca
the ififurre&ion.
The Tat eft letters from Vienna, which
reached Hambro'on the 28th ult. informs
89, that gen. Meerfeldt was arrived from v '
Udina, not with the treaty of peace, but »
with the Ultimatum erf the French Direfto-
W. ' c<
The Hamburgh Mail which beeame due lt
«tl Wednesday, arrived yesterday evening; it J"
brings intelligrtice of the moil gloomy na- '■
ture from Vienna, Udina, and otiier parts 0
of Italy, from which it may be inferred, °
that the War will be profetuted by the em- '<
peror with incrijafed fury.
On the 1 oth inft. Buonaparte publilhed 0
an order, according to to which 6000 Nat
tional Guards, cavalry and infantry, diftin
guiflied by tri-coloured cockades, will be
efiablilhed in Fritili. J
The Court Gazette of this day contains
an account, that the Austrian troops 011 the t
fide of Iftria have not only taken pifTeflion
of the Islands of Venlia, Arbe, Cherfo,
Lufin-grande, Ofero, lately under the Ven- {
etian government, but likewise of the re- ,
niaining part of' Venetian Dalmatia. '
Major-General Ruckavina entered Caftel
Nuovo on the 20th of August, and Cattaro (
on the-23d, at both which places he was le-
ceivcd by the inhabitants with every testi
mony of joy and fatisfaftion.
P. S.—There is evtry reason to fnppofej
that the Ultimatum of Gen. Buonaparte,
brought by Gen. Meerfeldt, is of that na
ture, that the renewal and most vigorous
prosecution of the waris to be feared. Ihe
preparations for war are carried on with in
creased attivity.
' By this day's Mail.
■ NEW-YORK, December 7.
The British frigate L'Oifeau, Captain
i Brisbane, had arrived at the Cape of Good
Hope, from the South American Station,
where (he had engaged, and heat off, two
Spar.ith 40 gun (hips, in which afttpn lhe
had received considerable damage.
.* Sir John Shore* Governor General ot
I Bengalis returning to England ; having«-
- j ijcrned his office in consequence of iU health. :
Lord Hobart has also resigned the govern
ment of Madras. Lord MornmgtonSuc
ceeds the former, and General George Har
ris the latter. •
The celebrated Mrs. Abmgton has re
turned to the EngWh ijtage, after an ab
sence of many years.
The army of the Prince of Conde is llateil
in the last Englilh prints abfclutd)'
i taken into the pay of the Emperor of R ullia.
If so, the probability of the Emperor s
taking a further part, in cafe hostilities are
renewed, increases. . c Q„;,k
The Britiih Captain Sir. Sydney Smith,
is mentioned as' having been offered by the
French government in exchange for a Cap-
t»in, and 400 seamen. We can fcarce.y
b.'licVe in the fuch an \\
offer. ' _ ries <
The escape of a number of thf Deputi«
fenteoeed for trar.fpoftatlon from France, is
a circumilance ofmuch ctiriofity. General* mclu
Dutertre who was suspected of having been mors
remtfs in his charge of them, and airefted,
has been acquitted and appointed to a com
martd on .the Rhine. In Paris, the seals CO
had been taken oft the house of Baiffy ,
D'Anglas, and his wife enjoyed the free T
ufeof it ; although "his escape and arrival in the i
f Switzerland w'ds then known. bnari
she circumilance of the Diredtory, who cofru
have hitherto preferred the ftri&eft secrecy A
otj the proceedings at Li(le, giving public!- der,
ty to their late arrets, on that fubjeft, leads confi
us tc confider,them as having given up all lonie
probability of the negociation ending ia to fii
peace. _ l ' ie '
The king of Prussia is stated to be on his The
death bed. | the
A new. expedition, against England or go, :
Ireland, it appears, is again talked of at C
Bred. . tee c
The British troops ia and near Lisbon tions
have t ikfn poflefiion of and £arrifoned Fort gran
St. Julian, whiuh commands the harbor,and Mai
also of all the other ports ; And it is repor- ferie
ted to have been hinted to the court of Lif- 'd ifti
bon, that E?rl St Vincent, notwithftand- ivkii
ing the French treaty with Pottugal, means l -°\ r
to refit his fleet during the winter at Lisbon;
audi if not mdlefted, w/ill certainly not at- ° a
tempt to molest the Portuguese, who ap-.
pear rather jealous on the occasion.
The perions condemned to trnnfportatiqn ;
from France, who were condutled to Roch
fort, embarked on board the vessel ceiled La ■
Valliante on the ift Vendemaire(2ift Sept.) " E '
i which failed the next day. The following j
is an exadt lift of their names : rl
Lafond-Ladebat, Brotier, " r
Barthelewv, 1 roricon-Ducou-
Larue, ' Wiilot, [dray,
Barbe-Marbois, DofTonville, .
Berthelot-Lavillcurndis, Bourdon, and 1!lv
Ramel, Letellier, Barthel- « er
Rovere, emy's Valet de 1
Pichegru, Chambre, who
Aubry, voluntarily ac- 101
Jturinri , companied hit matter. be
' Xiie <sa?ette. £
PHILADELPHIA, ■ a bl
FRIDAY FVENINO, DBCHfifBEA 9. f u (
—r , V . , _ - ■■ 1
KxtraS of a letter from Charhjlon, Siuth Ca- a
rolina, dated jWr. 20, 1797* 1
. " The citizens of this State being much e
alarmed from some unplafant circumstances
which have juft,taken place in Charleston, I
have the honorto address you on the fubjeft.
« A difeovery hag been made of the most 0
J horrible plot, which was to have been put
1 in execution lad night, by a number of
French negroes and mulattoes—Nothing m '
} less than firing the city in fe*ral places, and 0
a general roafiacre of the inhabitants. Se-
f ven of th?nj have been apprehended and are
now on trial, cm fnrh evidence as wdl con- lt
demn them to death. Among them is their S 1
; captain or commander, a bold, refolllte ne
gro. The massacre could not have been ef-
h fefied with'oiit use of arms, which by the f
1S l«ws of this state, people of colour are pre-
„ vented from having in their possession,
„ which induces the belief that some defpetate
j. Frenchmen from the Weft-Indies are also
concerned—However, I flatter myfelf,front
, e the vigilance of the citizens, it will be pre-- 1.
,'t vented. A battalion of the Charleston mi
a- litia are on duty every night. The extent
t, of the plot ii not yet known, whether any '
J of our (laves are concerned, or merely the
n . foreign negroes."
Two of the party crwicerned in the a- „
■d bove bufine'fs have been hanged and o- d
a- thers banished.
1 v
b e Capt. Burnham arrived at Bollon in 55
days from Hamburg, reports that hostilities f
ns had commenced between the Emperor and x
he the French.
00 rhs House of Reprtfi ntatives of thii State, yff- ;
°' terJay prbceedcif to elcA'itsStanding Commirteev,
:n ' such as Committee i f Wayt ind Means, aC'om
re- mit'i- of CiiiniK, aCmTmittee of Actounti, a
Commit tte of Rev sal and Unfinilhed Bufinefii, &c. 1
l e l Th*Houfe has adopied the Rules of la!l felTion. ,
Several petitions were prcftnted and read from ■
Gorman and Printers, praying for different
T parts of the buliiief. of the House. The Mcntgo-
aidry Eleflion, whkh was in dispute, from two 1
candidates being within a vote of «ch other (Mr. j
f c Bcllev* having 806 votes, and Mr. Pauling 805,
. ' and the returning officer declining to determine the
matter, front a belief that a vote fcelongi'ig to the
aa " Irtrcr, had been passed to eni of the other candi
3US rt» teß ) was decided !ly a vote of the House, 37 to
'he 2,8 in favor of Mr. Co!lew -The Committee ap
in- pointed-to wait upon the Governor. (9 inform him
.hat of boili Houfo were affembleJ. and
ready to receive any comnfl'jiiicatiens wrhich
Ije pleased to make to them, have not yet report'.*.
Co-day the Printers will be determined up on.
The British packets are, in future, to f»oeeed
iireilto New-York, infteadof touching at Ha'i
lax, as'they have heretofore done.
;a ' n Several mad dogs have lately a)ipcred in Eliza
00d beth-Town J4. J. and fomeperfons were bitten by
iot), them, but no had have yet appeared.
two ~
she CJ-Oa Sunday next, there wdl be Chan
ty Sermons and Collections, forenoon and
of afternoon, in Chrifl's Church and St. le
rj*e- tcrs, for the Poor of thofc Churches,
ith. A Charity Sermon will be preached
em- by the Rct. Mr. Neale, next Sunday, in St.
fuc- Mary's Church, at 10 o'clock, A.,M. for
iar- the benefit of the poor of the said Church.
PRICE L> a STOCKS,
re- Philadelphia, 2sth Nov. 1797.
ab- 6 per Cent. 16/10 to t 7 /.
i per C'snt. . 10 /4 f o6
Deferred 6 percent. 1 V"
, BANK United States. 23 per a. advance,
'tely . I'cnnfylvanii, 15 Ae
ifTrn. North America, S° rfo
ror's Iwl'urance Co. Pennlylvania, lharcs ftreent.
. are N. A (hares SO do.
COURSK OF IiXCHANGE.
..1 On London, at 30 Jaysffir" ir ■
nit "' at &o days <>s
' the ai 90 (lays
Cap- Amaerdam, per guilder 4°
1- I L nr> .lav,
We have receivea by the, a so- the Ai
ries of a London paper called IHt Oa- j t i^ t
RiER, from September 18 October t 7^
inclusive. Som: extrach foil >'. v, and arrive 1
more will be* publi'fhid to-morrow. Th,
__ ♦ Mefr
FRANCE.
COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED, ' °f £
September 2«.
The direftory, by a muffjg«, proppfed to '
the council to abolish all benefices and can
bnarits in ci-devant Belgium— Referred to a
copunittce. -53 s t ;:, r - . -
After having heqrd EfchiUirsau?: the el- 21
der, reporter to the commiftA appointed to ' I, P et
consider of the territorial division of the to- 7
lonies, the council divided St. Domingo in- ''
to five departments, viz. theNorth,the Weft, Ul ''£
the South. of Leogane, and Savagnac, 3 llt "
j The chief places of these departmen'tj are, 7 tf
| the Cape, Port Republicanf-Cayes, San-Ya- V e rc
go, and Santo Domingo. rn!""l
Chapelain, in the trame of of the comtt- L i a '' l
tee of Succoui s, proposed the following mo- 0,1 l h
tions :—I ft, That the 3,500,000 livres COOIC
granted as succours to the departments of
Maine et Loire, Deux Sevres, La Loire In- .
ferieure, and La Vendee, Ihould be thus
"d iftributed-: ,
Mjine er i.oir?, i,iit,'~oo Deux Sevres 514.000 J' om
Loir* lrtferi.-ure, 7^9, La Vendee 10 .6.030 fed by
The succours (hall -be given in the form other
of a reduftion of the contrTWutions. will c
mercL
COUNCIL OF ELDERS share.
September 26.
A Mclfage from the Direftory was read, mmtm
refpefting the deplortble state of the finan-
ces, upon which diftrtfils of the Republican
finances, the enemies of the Republic had D
I fvrmed their >iaricidal hopes of overturning day,
It. ' .< MAS
The Meffagc, after having enforced the of th
necessity of art immediate attention ,4,0 the gent!
financial,embarraffment? of tht Republic, ities,
invi»«-d the Conucil to. take into early confi- to si
deratilxl the Ye olution rtf the Council of
Five Hundred on this fubieft. A
t Gauthitr moved, " That no delay be al- from
lowed after to morrow, but that the Report two
be then presented." 1 It e
! Vernier, Member of the Commiflion, ob- atte
served, " that it wa3 yesterday only they had j eart
come to a decision on the resolution allud» I felt
ed to, and that the Reporter would not be mou
able to bring ia a well digested report on a whe
fubjeA of such importance in lef» than three lava
; dayg .». . ftre<
The jSropofition of the latter was adopt- I incl
, ed. tht
s September 27. I utte
[ The motiqn for paying funeral honouri to 1 bur
the memory of General Hoche was agreed I iflai
to. 1 11101
The remainder of the fitting was employ- tow
c ed on the discussion on the Resolution of the 1 ral
_ month of Meffidor, refpeaing the Refugees I thi;
j of the Colonies. I
The Reporter of the Commiflion moved I Gu,
the rejeftion of the resolution, inasmuch as I
it favoured the return of the Colonial Emi- I
ij. grants. I
Rallier spoke in favour of the latter, and ty
f] "said, that in emigrating thty yielded only j foil
ie to the imperious pressure of hard neceflity,
g that they never abetted the enemy, and that gr<
j, their misfortunes were their only crime. jEf
La Veaux said, that if there were any J
kof them innocent, their number very
° small. He then inveighed against the per- an
e _ fidyof the Planters, who had betrayed the
C ~ Colonies into the hands of foreigners.
n 'j The resolution was then put and rejec- |
"y t« d - of
10 LONDON, OAoher 4. rIS
It is not true that colonel F. I'tempted to com- F l '
a- p-j [ an y violence on h;-* own person. « fter th'' j H
O- duel on Sunday, rendered HBodleft through the j w;
(Irong p:.ffioK> which agitated the parties, they I »p
were both put under arrest by the:rcommanding 1
officer, and nothing further has occurred. 1 .
>5 t olonel F was mairiedfome year* ngo to Miss ln
ies Henuber, the daughter of a German gcn-leman, "
nd who was rt fidi-nt in England in a diplomatic cha- jy
raster, and who was honcred with the ago I p
of h«r majeay. By this lady he ha. several ckil- -
dren.and for iheir4ntere(l itis fettled that thecom
miflioa of tha colonel (hall be allowed to be fold. v <
m- October 5.
1, » Yesterday evening a cabinet couacil was I w
Bcc. to take into confidcrationthcdiTpatch- I
on * es received by Lord Malmelbui"y from the I u
om . French eommifiioners, and to frame an an- si
bo- fwer ' with which the Frcnch courier now P
wo in waiting here will mod probably be char- J I
Hr. ged this day. v c I 1
OS, N ew relations are forming between Sar- tl
t i' c dinia and the Batavian republic. M. Bofli, v
,'di a distinguished iiterary charafter, is nomina- k
-to ted charge d'ajfaires at the Hague, bavin- I
ap- been in the fame capacity at Peterlburgh. 1
him Citizen Declue, the French melTinger, 1 r
and after being detained at Spring-Garden cos- t
fce-houfe, is at pre sent with a king's raetTen- c
ger at Pimlico, debarred from - the inter- j \
course of private acquaintance in thi6 count
:eed tr y t jH his departure.
[a i " Mr. Pitt's tax on feather-beds is a new
proof of his being an enemy to the repose of
Kxa- " lan!tipd - .
11 by "" ■ I
gazette marine list.\
. - - '• «.!
'and PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
" Arrived'at Marcus Hook the fch'r Mary I
-hetl Hunt, 30 dayifrom St. Thotnas. ,
, St Left'.Were 1
for ship PoHfmonth, Mcmt,
Brisr Sufanhah, Lewis Dittcf. - _ I
Sloop , Horfbrough, Ditto Capt. hunt j
,W informs that the Jhip Clot/tier, Gardner,,for \
,6 Liverpool, and about 4° f/I W' 1 " ''M
Reedy Island on Tuesday laffoJfea.
ranca. fwn (hips, two or three brigs, tfc. ri- 1
"• mained at the Island,, supposed to be bound up.
° e ; t Capt. H. saw a brig and several fmall,r
0. vessels ajhore near Salem.
The brig Maria, S her er, from Charle- \
A flan, andfeh'r Sctfotver Laic, fr.m Rtcb
% mend, got up from, the Pointlajl evening.
a 0 ! Thefh'ip Manchejler, Shewel , armed at
4° Cower; tie brig Drfpalch, R.ricr,af Jo. and
the Mary, Earl, to Hamburgh, at Dave'-, : 'SHI
on the IJI of OdJcr ; all of and from PRia< |
delbhia. ' ■ j Will <
''the brig Nymph, Rofs; from Ph'Janl'lplM
arrived, at Dublin clout the lelh of Srfeinbn .
The flip Bti/kl, captf Snd.'h, on her /«/-
Jagefrort Honduras to Lltidon, picked vp
the (few of the Jlip Hunter, capt. Gctllighaa,
of IVstfiington' N. C. who foundertd on her T
pajfove from Liverpool. S»av!
T'i«fc]b. Flying Fish, I ce, frotnhenceto
Jeremie, left the Gapes Oct. 2Ctb, under A^{]
convoy of the Hir.d of 20 guns. Three
days after, in a gale of wind, loft the convoy
—2 Bth at 2 A. M. Lat. 31, long. 69, was,
upset hi afquall : out of 17 iifwiwoatd, Sft C p
1 1 were drowned in the Cabiii, thereitoiinder
got 011 the bottom. Next morning the vef
ftl righted, but the hatches under water — R v tt
31ft one of the pafl?ngers died bp the wreck
—7th Nov. one sailor and two paflfengers
Vere walhed off—9th Nov. the brig Der- £j w
daurhaufft, Meyers, from Hamburgh for
Charlellon, fell in with the wreck, aud took
off the captaiii j jnate, and 3 bands anu the
cook the only persons. saved. With
rofl
Arrived at New-Tori fed
Britifo Packet, Quten Chfrtutte, Clemens,
the Manchejler /. merican, Hip is arrived 10 1
from Philadelphia in 34 days. She was cha
fed by a privateer, and it is said all htt'rs and
other papers were thrown overboard, which V
will of course occasion much incowoeniency to the '
merchants, as large remittance in hills, lank - v ' :
Jharcs, 11c. were supposed to be on board, P
London paper.
BALTIMORE, Dec. 4. K
Departed this life, about \ z o'clock, this 01
day, in the 26th year of his age, Mr. ThO
mas E. Clayland, one of the proprietors ,!<},
• of the Ealtimore Telegraphe. In this young Pi
: gentleman were centred many amiable qual- the
, ities, ,which promised considerable advantage a ®.^
-to fpciety. ' No.
f the"
A volcano, we learn by a gentleman just
- from Guadaloupe, made an irruption about
t two monjbs ago, in the Sulphur Mountain.* Jy]
It emitted for a few days notliingbutfmoke,
- attended with violent concussions of the w f D
d I earth, the Ihocks of which were very sensibly fi?u
1- 1 felt in Bafleterre. The whole top of the of £
e mountain afterwards fell into its crater,
a I when it vomitted forth a large quantity &f lar ,
•e lava and a Dies, with the litter of which the | gra i
ilreets of Bafleterre were covered several I
t- inches deep, and some eoffite plantations in ,
the vicinity of the volcano were -yj
I utterly destroyed. It eontlnued to j V
;o I burn violently when our informant left the J er <
:d island, and the bhiee from the top of the fw
mountain was plainly to be seen from the
fr I town Bafleterre. Hug.uts had feut feve- ni(
te ral naturalists to make their obfrrvations on opt
es I this phenomenon.
* The Sulphur Mountain is in the island of « n
;d I Guadaloupe, about 7 miles from Bajfeterre, v\ r
as I for
li- SAVANNAH, Npv. 14 gn
At an eleftion held in and for the coiin
id Ity of Camden, on Monday the 6th inft. the CVI
ly I following persons were eledled, viz:—
y, Delegates for Convention, James Sea- p
at I grove, James Gunn, and Thomas Stafford,
I Esquires. v ,
ny I For Senate James Seagrove.
ry j For Representatives, Thomas Stafford
er- and John Jamiefon, Esquires. ye
be 1 d:
I Anscdot l (from a French Paper). One,
:C " day Prince Charles of Lorraine, Governor j -
j of the low Countries, brother-in-law of Ma- j
j ria Theresa &as sick. He had sent for his
>m- physicians, and they were long in coming.
tb<- IHe was good natured ; he paid well and
the was Tcr y m frrved ; and this is very natural.
hc y They at length arrived. The Prince was a
j little out of humour, however, with wait
ers 1 i"g long- They made their appearance.
ian, j " Come away (said he) : Charles, attend"
ha- j y ou know that a firtilar found in several _
French words sometimes gives rife to whim- (
fical mistake*. Physicians are men who are
Id. I very eafilyhurt. Charles, attend, raised in j
their minds quite a different idea from that a
was which the Prince meant toconvey"Char- F
:ch- I batons," murmured they to themselves ; and
the up bristled their perukes, and in great >yrath
an- fcrathed their pates. Your Lordfliip is
low pleased—We know not why ? Would your J
tiar- I Lordlhip be so good as mention how we r
have defervtd? —and: as they said this
3ar- I their meager carcases bowed under their
offi, velvet robes, and their bleated eye-lids twin- ,
ina- I kled with an appearance of great concern.
irinT I How! What is the matter said the Prince? 1
h. I But your Excellency fhonld consider that '
ger, men like us—our fcicnce—in fine the 1
cos- I the title of Charlatan. The' Prince burst
(Ten- I out a laughing. Their mistake was so
iter- whimsical, he laughed so long and so hear
oun- tily, that he was cured ipftfaSo.
new The City Dancing Aflembly,
fe of I Is unavoidably poftponcd till the 14th i»ft.
Dec.
Philip Nicklin Sjf Co.
ST. HAVE FOR SALE,
»| At their Stores on Walput street V* harf,
i. HavannahSagars, whitcandbrown
I hhdt. Jamaici do.
Mary I 3°°° pieces of broad Nankeens
I Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighths of chei.s
I Quifkfilvfr in tubs
j Madeira Wine in pipes and hoglheads
'> f"~ I I'encriffe Wine in pipe?-
ward j Old icd Port Wine in hogiheads
1 SailCanvafs, uflorted, No. I to 8
ij f I 8 cases of Manchester Goods, confiding of Ditnitie?,
" 1 Muflinets.Ginghams.Thickfctts.Corduroys.&c. |
r i f°r j loc crates Queens' Ware, affortcd
'S left, j Nails, alTortcd
I Bla k quart Bottles
r l. I Yellow Ocro in caiks
' , I A quantity of writing S'ates, (late Ink Stands, Jcc.
r V ,i' 1 icc quarter enft's Gun Powder
mailer J hone aljufor SALE or CHARTER,
I TheJhip MOLLYburthen 340 tons, a
lharle- ! d un d*oinplet«ly fitted.
Rich- (l The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
rein, may be ready .or ft ain a few days.
red at Vhe whole of the above veifels to *>*. f « n at
Li. and Wa'nut ftr:« Wl arJ. i *'•
.NEW THEATRE,
Will one!: (vi MONDAY cyorf'ng .'Hxt, IX'- :r,
With ?, C*dfA«reu. i v ca!jc«.l
IvOBIN HOOD j
0r 9 Sherwood For eft*
RFSIbRHTS /AT' THE FORFST.
Robin Hood Mr Darley
Little John Mr Wigndl
■Siarict . Mr Francis
Bowman •*• • Mr Warrell
Archers, Meffi'S. B.liflet,T.Warrell, t)odor,'
LaftVrty, Sully &c.
Allcn-a-Dale, Mr Warrell, jan.
Stella , Miss L'Eftrange
Sticpherdefies, Mrs Harwood, Mrs Doctor,
Miss Anderfan, &c.
fISITO&S TO TH£ FOttSiT.
Riittckin Mr Bernard,
(Eeinp fiis firft. appearance in Philadelphia)
Friar Tuck Mr Warren
Edwin Mr Marflia!}
Clolinda Mrs Warrell
Anette Miss Milbottrne
Angelina Mrs Oldmixon
With the original Overture, by Bau-rigarten The
raft of the MvHc and Arcnmjiwiiiaients, compo
fedby with adiitionil airs by Mr. Rei-
The which will be aided, it Comov, in two aSti,
called,
THE LYA R.
Old Wilding, - - Mr. Warren
Young Wilding, - Mr. Bernard
Sir James Elliot, - Mr. Warrell, jr.
PapilUon, - - - Mr. Marshall
Servant, - - Mr. F. Warrell
Mili Grantham, - Mrs. Francis
Miss Godfrey, - - Miss L'Eftrangc >
Kitty. - - - Mrs. Do&br.
Box, <me Dollar ; Pit. tbr;.- quarters of a Dol
lar ; and Ga'leif, half a Dollar.
€r The doors of the Tlisaire will open at .five,
and the curtain rife precifcly at fit o'clock.
Places, tor the Boxe* to be taken at the Office ill
the front of the Theatre, from to (ill 2 o'clock
ifcd from lotjl) 4"dfl thtrdtys of perf jrmn.ee..
Tickets to be had at H. and Rics's book-!torc.
No. 50 Mark:t-ftre«t, and at the Oftiea.adjoining ,
the Theatre. . VTf'AT Jl/18 PUBLIC A
BALL.
MR. BYRNE', firrt Ball «"U be on Tuefd»y>
evening nest, nth December, at O'Ellcr.*
Hotel, when several new Country Dances for the
eiifuiug season wiH be introduced, compofi'd, and
figures adapted, by Mr. Byrne, for amafemefct
of tke coriipany in genera!.
The Dnurs to he opened at fix, and the Ball
commence at seven. Gentlemen's T eke',» one do!- *
lar each, tohe-had at D'£U«rss—Ladisk' Tickets,
I grattt, fsr the season, of Mr. and Mrs. Byrne,
i | No 114, north Sixth fireet. D.-c 8".
j" DANCING bCHOOL.
J "ITTIL.LIAM M'DOUGALL prefenu hi*. ,
>| VV molt refpe.ilful compliments to hit form.
: j er employers and the citizens in general, a>d re
; turns his mod grateful thanks, for the very
, I bountiful encouragemeut he has expetienced for
these twenty-five years past; takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his school is now
1 open, at hit
Elegant Ball Room,
' in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut »o3
VYalr.uf-ftreets. To begin at xo in the rooming
for young ladies, and 6 in the evening for young
gentlemen.
1- His firll Ball %* ill be to-morrow
g' evening, Saturday, the 9th inft.
Dec. 8. aawtf.
l * PhiladelphiaandLancafter 1 urn-
5 ' pike Compananjr.
.j nnHE Stockholders are hercfiy notified, that the
J aniiual Election for Officers for the ensuing
year .will be held at the Comp Office iu Phila
dlphia, on the florid MoniUy in -January not, at
ia o'cl-ck, a. m. Wm. GOVETT, Sec'ry.
Ie Deceml er 7 ats m&wt7] . '
ROSS W SIMS ON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
g. A few bales Baftas, Coffas, and
id a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in tags and boxes
Jamaica, "J
? St. Vjncents, > RUM.
and Bengal j
30b calks RIPE, rod
A parcel of (hip building RED
•al Oft it. s._
Geenteel Boarding & Lodging.
lre ,\ Family may be accommodated With a Dravv
tn il lag Room, two Bed Chambers, and fjitable
iat accommodation for fervauts —at no. 53, north
Jr _ Fourth street. D c i —* tt9
"J Samuel Pleafants iff Sons,
' . , A r o. 7f, Sevth Secc,nd-Jlrccl,
13 TT AVS received a supply of Seal'onable GOODS,
>ur which they are now opening for sale, on
wt rcafonable terms- OSt .—4V,
his ;
's ir James Richard Smith,
~n* npAKE the llber'y of informing their frier' 1 *
:rn - I and the public, that they have remove their
ce? Hore to N"o. 54, South Fro~*frcet. nrxt d«or to Ed
hat ward Fox', Auction f.opm, where they have at
the this time for sale, a large and general aOortment of
nrft European £s* Eojl India Goods,
fn Many of which are }uft imported in the Clothier,
William Penn, &c. &c.
:ar " Oft. * 7 . J__
f, ~~ Uriah Smith,.
No. ao, north Third Brect—has tor sale,
A neat and general aflortment of
Broad Cloths,Kerfeymeres,Napt
and Drab Coatings. also,
A variety of Gentlemens' fafbionable fancy Waiti
coating, silk Hosiery, &e.
' wn December j.
House and Lots, in Bordentin.
TO BE SOLD, 3. halldfome two story House.
wftt the Lot on which it is rredted fitu.trd
ah(UU thei middle of the 1-eautiful and heaithy
Vi lage of Borden'own. The house « forty tvro
Tcet front, and in neat order. The lot, covins
lities, acre, and is one hundred feet on tbc mam
&c. n r cet, and extends with the fame breadth tuhwt
flreet Also, a lar s e Lot, containing near 1) four
acres, fepar«.ttd from the former h; back itiieet..
One third only of the purchase inoney wittbe re
quired upon executing a deed, and lor the re
maiftder, fach credit w.ll be g-en
ermaychufe. This property will.be fold free ••
all incumbrances, and an indisputable titU giv.at
ns, a For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burn's residing in Bordcntown ne.r.
)ba , th ,
een at Cop-eyancer, no. 144, Ivlarket-ftrec^
IC. Decum^ er s-A pcrfon well acquainted with j
tVeotymdin-ailiceofhook-keeping,whoV.sVeen \
many^eanei'gagi>dihS«iaei;storrnniftirar.doihsr ,
woedfl he ghd t» b? employe !, eiiher as an agent
i r'acior; cr in porting books; si tting uniettted
accounts ; or in executing any other kind ol writ
ifMj-, in French orEngliS.
A note uddreffed to J. A. and left at this office,
will hr ■. tin-''! it .ill j- attended to.
November 30. Jlwtf
To the Inhabitants of the United
States.
Q!N"O2 'lu knowledge of medicine, none has ev»
Ocr proved so aitoniTjinjtly efteaeious, fou"i
---v rfally cfleemed, or to which the titiliASed with
Rheumatisms, Gout, I'heumatic Glut, l.c-nbago,
Talfy, Sprains, Bruises and ChilbkiaS, may look
fir relief \vith-f>» much cbnfid,ence, as
Whitehead*s eJTcnce of Mujlard.
This exttaardinary Medicine very fonn affords
the with d fi»r rciirf, " even to the aged in cale»
mo'} de'ptrrate " For these fubftantialreafons
it is pitronued by all ranks of peopL- in Englapd.
I'tbm theg;e?.t number of communicationsiCon
it<u)tly received by Mr. Johnston, he is under tb<
n-ct ffity (in laying them before fh; v.-okld) fcf a
b;ida,ing their contents; the followuij lettters (al-
Kmuyh cartuieti) are so very important, and the
ftjnaturesfo veiy refpciUble, that he conceives he
ft:»u!fi fee doing itijullice to 1 EJfatcc of ;
ifuf.jr4, were he to withhold them from public in- -
fpediu/n.
Let'ef :rara Mrs. Mills, HoSfekeepcr to' the Duke "
of Cumberland.
fir. No*. 1, i7?J. 1 1
A mij!l itivi-terate Rheucnatifm and Lumbago
(occcifisned hy laring. in a damp bed, when at ]
feruffi ls, in the suit of Her Highnrfs thq
Dutchefs of Cumberland) hasafflidsd me dghteen
ye»r+. 1 have employed the firil me-iltal gentle
men i:i l,ondon, an 1 (although I derived 110 bene- j
fit) a:n bo'md to acknowledge my gratitude to fe- i
veral of the nobility, who knew my deplorable si- I j
tmti iti, and human ly sent me their physicians; I 1 j
have aXa tried most advertised medicines. At
lit, after eighteen years excruciating
t&rture, a few bottles of your Wkitthted'!
of MvJirJ, hsve, 1 thank Ciod,"Yefl<ired md to the '
i'ießimahle bieffings <<* health and permanent «afe. :
Yours, much oblige l,
No. 134, Jcrmyn-ftrect,Sti James's; S. MILLS 1
a letlitr from G. Countess, esq. Captain of '
His Majedy's Ship the Dedalus.
J-ir, Spithead, Nov. 8, f?9J.
As I expefl to fail ill a few days, 1 beg you will r
immediately forward me a d«tzen of Wbitcbtad'x
iflcnaof Mufiard. It gives me eonfiderable fatif
faction to inform you, I have myfelf experienced '
its good effefis, and have in fevcral inllances of t
Rheumatisms, Sprains, and Bruises, wittreffed i:s c
aftortifliing efficacy. I think you would consult c
your own inte'reil by appointing it to be fold at c
Ponfmottth, and all other feaportj ; for you may
reft affurad, when this iavaluable fpecific becames }
generally knotfn, not an Officer in His Majesty's 3
Navy will go to sea witT-out it. i
Yours, scc. c
G. COUNTESS. .
c -
Sir, Dec. 40, 17?S
'A fevers stroke of tke Palsy, fix months ago, do- .
pr ve lma of nry speech, and the use of one fide. 4
In this desperate Ctuation. WbilebeaSs Efiena of .
Muftardwas very fcrOhgty recommended, and, 1 1
thank God asfuccefefdlly applied. By perfeveriue '
in itiufe afhort rime, I was completely restored, j
and contioue to enjoy the fail and perfeft use of J
my faCsihies, although near eighty years of age. '
Yours, W. FRANCIS,
No. *4, Pim'ic*. e
* * Mr. Francis has held a public fituatlon at '
the OuiMUatl in the city of Weftminfler, many
years, and is well known to the generality of the 1
TefpeAable inhabitants. j
0
Letter from A, McCan Esq. Capt. of the 60th re- u
giment. dated port George, Guernfay, .
Sir, - [an. 4. 1797 r
Upwards of five years past I have been affliAed
with a rtnft violent Rheumatic Affeflion in my ]
head, which has baffled the Ikill of the mod emi
nent Physicians; some months since I was induced
lo try yoar Wbiitbeift EJfenceof AfitJiarJ I am
Slow happy to inform you, it has d6ne m: cficntial
service.and I think it necessary to no other
taedicine ever gave me the fmalltft dejree of relief.
1 am with regard, yours, &c. icc.
Capt. 60th Regt. A. McCAN. n m
August, 179 5 :
Mr. Middleton, of Cheflerfield-ftreet, St. Ma
ry lc-bonc wasfo fevrrely afflifled with the Rheu
matic Gout, as to be unable to move in my bed for
fixmonths; his limb* were enormously fwelled,a>>d
at length from excefiivc pain became quite black. J
111 this, diftreffiog situation he was itAlnced to try g
your Whiteheads Eflmcerf thl effeA far si
exceeded the most sanguine expedition, his pain c
was immediately alleviated, and hie limbs returned si
to their natural colour ; his appetite restored, and o
in a very short time he was enabled to leave his bed ii
and walk with crutches; and by a few weeks per
fevcrance, was completely restored to tb« fuU en- I
joyment of perfeift health. c
Mr. Middleton, with his son. repeatedly
called as he get better, on Mr. Johnfton, and de
clared that his life v. as utterly despaired of.
RefpeAed Sir, Nov. 6. 179?.
Faffing by a croud, in the fifth month of her
pregnancy, my wife received a dreadful blow on
ber fid'', which apparently destroyed the life of the
infant ; after the most fkilful advice, and trying
various remedies for two months, Ihe Ikill lound
the symptoms increase to an alarming degree ; fpit
tinj; of blood—shortness of breath—and other dif
•greeabk circumstances appeared fiom so violent a
kruife, sfTorded only the fatal appearance of her ,
fpecdy difTolution. \ friend to whom I felatad
her fad cafe, having «xperieneed great benefit from
your Whitehead*> Sjftnceof Uvfiard, kindly ptefent
«d me with a bottle ; to rtiy unspeakable t
tion, it fpedily relieved her from pain ; a lecond
bottle has removed every difagrceablc symptom,
and with the tnoil heartfelt gratitude I inform you, J
we have the happy profpeA of her long continuing
a living mother to our numsrous family. "
Yours, &c. T. HURLOCK; a
WhitmoreVrow, Haxton.
• I-
It is prepared (only) and fold, in Pills and in a
Fluid at one dollar each box of bcttla, by
R. JohiJstok,' Apothecary, no le, Grsek flreet,
Soho, London ; and is also fold by his appoint
ment, wholefaleaod retail, by G. SHAW, (sf Co.
no. 149, Chel'nut-ftreet, Philadelphia, who have
just received a large qumtity, per the William ]
Penn, and to whom, persons defirons of vending, J
are desired to apply. r
i I
CHILBLAINS. t
tVlitdesd's Ejftn:e of Mujlard generally cures
Ghilblainu and common Rheumatisms, on the Er!i v
or feeond application, and often removes the most
violent Sprains and Bruil'es, in .two or three days.
Caution. —A Certificate is palled on each bottl
and box, and to prevent the tlangtr of counterfeits, C
another certificate is also figacd by G. Shaw &Co.
Of Philadelphia.
Shaw & Co. have also imported by the William
Psnn, a quantity of Gowland's Lotion for the face
and ficin —Ball'am of Honey for c-oughs, allhnia.
and consumptions—Church's Cough Drops, and a "
variety of other Patent Medicines.
November 15.
< HO MAS K A?i OAIj L,
> PRESENTS his refpeA. to hi, F.-i nc'.., and the
' - Public in g-er.erul, informs them that'-Ke basppen-d
an Olfiee, athUhdufe, No. BS, b'puic!; ftrc-' t, sos
rhe purpoic of tranfa&ing bufiuefs in Vic iine oi
Corimi.iion and Agency, collecting rcnaand out
ftanfliitsr claim* in any p?.rt ot thr* Onited Scares
' He flatters hirjifeif, that from his long rrfidsnc jin
'his country and o general knowledge of it, his for
'luces will be found worthy the no ice thole who
may plcafe to confide to,him the management of
any of their concerns.
N* B. Security given where required,
nth mo 14 3ta\y^f
FOR SJLE,
By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 75, South
Watu* Area,
A general affohmsnt of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattins
Do. do. LHtwriwgs
Do. d® Handkerchiefs
Do. do. sewing Silks
Imperial and Hyfyn Teas
Lougand [Tiort Naakeens
Quick Silver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes
Affortud O'afs Ware, in cases
White and brown Havamia Segars, in boxes
Mol'fffcJ., in hog(head»
St. Croit Rum and Jujar,' in do.
l.ondon partimlar Madeira Wine
|' Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quart-r calks
Red, ycU'nv and pale Bilks, iachcft;
Logwood, <kc. &c.
lit tu&Uw JOSEPH SIMS.
For Sale, by the Package,
' For c*(h> or good notes at Gxty or ninety days,
viz.
Book and Jaconet Muslins plun~|
(tripes, and Checks j . ., •
. j t u j L AlTorttd in
do. do. 1 amboured j> ,
do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & | P lc ' 3 - : > cs '
, gentlemen|c neck do. J
I Jaconet chintz w»flin fur home and the Weft
Indii market, Puilicot* and linen handkerchiefs,
for do. do printed do. do. common purple and
chintz shawls.
The above goods entitled to drawback nrj ex
portation. Also a few fcotchcambrjcks and an
aflbrttnerit of muslin by the piece.
"she whole of the above being a csnGgnment
from the manufacturers in Britain-
To be seen at William Blackburn's
Office, No. 64, South Secpnd Street.
Nov. 6. jawtf.
NOTICE.
THE Stockholders of the Bank of the United
States, are informed that according to the
flatute of Incorporation a general Eleflion for
twenty five Direflors will be held attheßank
of the United States in the City of Philadelphia,
ori Monday the firft day df January next at ten
o'clock in ihi forenoon.
And pursuant to'the Eleventh feiflion of the
Bye' Law; the Stockholders of the flit! Bank
arc harcby notified to alTemble in general Meet
ing at the fame place on Tuesday the fccond
day of January next at five o'clock in the E
srenine. ■
By order of the Board of direflori,
O. SIMPSON, Calhier.
Second fundamental Article»
Not more than three fourths of tne Directors•
in office, exclusive of the President, shall be e
hsgible for th't' next succeeding year, but the
Director who shall be President at the time of an
I EleAioti may alwayrbe re-eleiled.
Philadelphia, now, 18.-1797. * ftE
iC NOTICE.
T<y holders 0 f J AMES GREENLEAPs
and ED IVARD FOX'S Engagements
IN confeqotnee 6f mauy haviijg been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circumttanccs from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now inform them, they
are ready to ifiiie the fame to those who may ap
ply within fixtydays, at Nft. 8 Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, will be confiderdd at re
linquishing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided far their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THOMAS W. FRANCI,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
November, 13. tuth&fim.
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. no Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wifli tt> recpr to the only
means of becoming perfeA in the French Lan
guage,that he has just opened his Lisa art, con
fining of upwards of 1550 volumes, th« best cal
culated to afTord either ufefut inflruAioa, or plea
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at evefy book-teller's
in town.
n. e. All translations from and into the French,
English and Spanifli Languages, executed with ac
curacy, and dispatch. eoim nov. 15.
For Sale by the Subscriber,
White Plattillas
Brown HolUndi
White Sheetings
Dowlafies
Silesia bordered Handkerchiefs
Striped Sumoufes
Black Ribbons, No. 3 and 4
Glffs Tumblers, and Looking Glades, in
in cases, &c. &c.
George Pennock.
November 6. eodjw
FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. sj, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. a general afTortment of Tools,
Edes and Materials, coHlifting of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and forge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, 'Glasses, Punice Stone, Emery,
Rotten Stone, Cat Gut; hench, fland and tail
Vices ; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals, Keys, &c. &c.
* # * Apprentices Wanted,
november 3. f&tutf
The Hiflory of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
Ig now in the press, and will be publilhed,
\vith all convenient expedition, by ZtCHA-
R1 AH Poulsom, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet;
Philadelphia, where lubfcriptions will continue
to be received, and a* the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed propafals, until the
work is ready for the fubfuribers.
July 18. sawtf
Window Glass,
Of Superior Qu*liiy, and cheaper than «ny other in
the City—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From Bby 6t019 by 14.
By the single Box or Quanti v. may be liarl at the
{lore pf. ihe Subferibers, coinei of Aveh and Frcn,t-
Ureet.
fames C. &SSamuel Jr.J r . Fisher.
Philadelphia, June 9, 1797. Iwmwftf
Englifli Grammar,
Thr feond edition, with impravim-nh,
ADAPTED tothe different clalTcs of learacrs ;
with an appendix* containing rules and o-b
---frrvatioasfor alfifting the more advacced students
to wrire with per''oi<*uity and accuracy.
By LIK r ,LEY MURRAY.
" Tliis is a publication of much merit, and fully
anl'weis the prnfeffions in the Title. Ihe appen
dix contains some of the bed rules for w-ntiujr r
legantly, and with propriety, th3t we recollci! to
have Ken."
, Monthly Review, J.iiy 1796.
" This Grimniar is, on many accounts entitled
to cntinitt K intory its materials have been
carefully and jddi«?«Ay feleded ; its arjangemeut
is diftinfl to the purpose of in
flru&jbn and its expreffiou is simple, pcrfpicudus
ar.d accurate, &c t "
See tbe charafler at large in the Analytical
Review, Jaly 1796-
Englilh Exercises,
Adapted to the Grammar lately publiflied by
Lindlty Murray, cOtififlirtg of exemplification of
the parts of speech, inflancesaf salsa orthography,
violation! <jf the rules of fyn;ax, defers in punc
tuation, and violations of the rules refpe<sljng
perfpicnity.and accuracy, designed f«r the benefit
of private learners, a« well as for theufe of fclrao 1..
" W« have been much plerfed ".virh thapeiofal
of these Exercises. They •cewpy with diflinguifli
ed excellence a most important place in the fcicncc
of the finglifh hnguage; and as fucb, we can
warmly recommend tf.em to the Teachers of
Schools, as well as to all tbofe who are desirous of
attaining correvSlnefs and precision in their native
tongue."
Monthly Review, Jtlly i 79 7.
The above Books are for sale at Joscm 3c James
Cruejuanks book tlore, No. 87, Market flrea.
December 1. 3tawaw.
N O T I C E.
AI,L persons concerned are hereby notified,
that the Ilibfcriber intends to apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of
Stock in the Bank Of th« United State? —He for.,
wanted thetn under tovcr of a leltir addressed to
John Anfley,of London, by the (hip Bacchus,capt.
which left this port in June last for Don
jon. Bat that flwp having been captured her
pafTage and feat to Jranct, the aboVtf letter and in
cisures have failed in their deftinatiou.
Three certificate", viz.
Nos. 26325, 26326, 26/27, each for
four shares, dated January tft, 1797, and
issued in the name of Hetiry Grace, of Tot
tenham Higherofs, Gr«at Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadttbhia, rmember 8. 2iw6w
i
Wanted, to Hire,
Al.arge and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centrecf the city—for which a generous
rent will bfc given ; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquire cf th« Printer.
OS. 17. eotf
A Compting House to let.
A Mod convenient Compting House is now for
hire on RofsV wharf, directly qver the arch.
For terms, apply to
, Samuel Srtcl, jun.
No. 89, south Third ftrect.
Where may It had,
A few bales of Ravens Duck, and about 130
pieces of stout Canvafc* a small quantity of Mace,
and fbmehigh proof Brandy ; Sherry Wine, Cho
colate in Window Glass of various (Met
and dimenfwms. Dec. i—eofit
Samuel & Miers Fifhcr,
ARE NOW OPEKINO,
At their Warehoufr, No. 17, Dock Street, a frefh
jffortmci.t of Woolen and other goods, Suitable to
the fcafon, received by theU'te arrivali from Eng
land.
They bent alj&ftr Sale,
I.ifbon
i P". hMe ' md lulrter1 ulrter caJks '
Port w ineV, J
Aftorted queen's ware in crates, &c.
loth m«- 2 diwjtawjw.
James C. & Samuel W. Fiifher,
AT THE.R STOKE,
No. 13, comer of Arch and Front streets,
H.IFE TO* SAlBj
Cotton and worlted Hosiery in trunks, aiTorted
A few bales red, whits, and yellow Flannels
Ditto futt romall Handkcrohirfs
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taff. ties
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few chests betl Hyson Tea
Alfa —XSOO box s best London Window Glass,
from 8 by 6, to 19 by 14 —and 15 hhds. Glass
Ware, afTorted, which they will difpofs of cheaper
than any in the city.
November 98. .tawtf
Imported (via New York) on the
ship Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for
sale by the •übfcriljcr, it Kn. 61, Chefnut ilreet,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Maharagonjet; Charcrtnna Dorens
Chintz and Calicoes worked muslins
Gillis Roma's ftindannoes
Nillaa & Penfiafoos Chafta P omals
Blue cloth Hair rihton
MullMulfhar.kerchicfs Palen\po» es
Patna do. 6phim
Lefler Cardimum Seeds.
S~aHiuel Wilcox*
november 17 tuth»4w
FOR SALE, bi
Joseph Anthony & Co.
1 No. 5, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Brandy, ift and ad
proof, just landed
150 lJales of Bourbon cotton of afuperior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy bhcfc pepr>cr in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the firH quality
High proof Jamaica lpirits
Old London particular Madeira wine / In pipes &
do. market do calks.
New England rum in hogflieads
Genuine Holland Gia in pipes
Claret in cast*
candles atJiaiJrainM oil
Prime flofto'i bf*cf. '
Choice Halifax Sajfnob in barrels and half barrels
Do. Herring do do
! Ecft Boston Mackerel in barrels of the fail fare.
! New-England t jw l'usn
I A few torts of {taflia cordage
Ru.Tia feather bedi
Clovtr and Timothy feed in 3aiks
I >ong whale-bone
No i, 2, and 3, Boston fail duck
A few chests firft quality Hyson tea
Carolitia rice in whose and half tiecces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glass wars.
November 8..
400,000 weight of choice Srt. Do
mingo COFFEE,
FOR. SALE. BV
JAMES YAI\D.
iovemberi.2. aict
tor Sale,
Thai tveil hhovm place, coiled V^hdsgrift's
t t R R V,
ON Nefhaminy creek, 18 miles from pltila
ladelphia, on the New York poll road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perchts. Upon the
premises are a large two fiery flone hdufe occu
pied asatvern, and a good one flory stone kit
chen , a large ftinreftiHe vritfi 2 gosd threfiiine
floor, ant' Ibiue out buildmg»t-aNb a well of
fond water,-and an excellent ice Bouse. Od
rhis place is * moll eleglirt fitiutioi
man's fest, commanding a view 9? the .Ne£3am
ir.y toltsjujiflion wiili the Delaware, and thence
acroistn the /CrTt-V fhure'. It lias the privilege
of one half ihe toll received frow< tbe
Fer turras apply C the S^l/criber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
S'ay 34. itawtf.
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A yaluaile Lat of Grouhd ;
SITUATE on the hoi th-e»ft corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
Houi'e square. Thi9 lot is fifty-6ne feet front
on Walnut (Ireet, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; 'there are at
present two small two /lory brick holifes, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Ait'o, far Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate en
Water-street, between Mulberry and Siflafras
streets, containing in front on Water street flf
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth eafl
ward feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thele houses
ave the conveftiance of a public alley adjoining
oi» the north fide, and are a very deferable fit'ua
tion for a merchant, flour faflor,or others who
may have occasion for storage of goodi This
property will be fold on very rejfonsbie terms
foreafh, For further information apply totlie
printer.
July 3T. m&wtf
Jtij} Ptibiifhed,
And to he had of MtrlTVh. Dokfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfeliers in t ie
city .price one dollar, twmty-fivecent»,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
June io. "it
School Books and Stationary.
' W. Y O~U NG,
No. ta, Second-flreer, corner of Chefnut-ftrect,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large assort
ment of F.ncii4b, trench, Latin and Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. A!ji, fucli elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in th? academies
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY fUILISHtD,
Sheridan's Di&ionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. S vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, Urge 11 mo price I dol. 75 its.
Ditto, common, price 1 dol.'socts.
AH fqrts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paptr ; Bookbinrfu-r's Boards, Paftefioirds,
IheathiHg and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, arid otljer articles, of
the best quality, ufud in the countiflj; house, or
public office.
Catalogues of a rnifceHaneous collision of
BOOKS,, with tbe price of each affixed, t0 be had
by inquiring as above. o<i. 24. —jaw6w
The Norfolk MaiISTAGE.
r-pHIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
1 at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, rvcry Ta'fJny, Tbeerptay, and Satur
day, at J o'clock, in the it orning ; arrives at Hu>-
>ver the flrft day, at Snowhiil the feeond day, at
Northampton Court Houfc the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the paffengcrs find
a fafc and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk v
A pajtrt leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
every Tuefdxy, Thursday and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Mon.'ay, Wcdnefday and Friday; puts up at Sr.ow
Hill thifirft night, at Dover the id night, and ar
rive# in Philadelphia ill the evening of the' third
day.
Thediftance rn this route,between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is 3c miles left than 011 any stage route
between those places.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
•which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return, the whole fare to any
passenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
Anguft 11. <1 tm. eolf.
City ot Walhington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement* of the Ferl/tal C*'y.
A magnificent d 20,00 c dollars,
& calh 30,000, are 50,000
l ditto 15,000 it. cast 15,00® 40,00..
1-ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cafb 10,000 40,000
1 ditto 5)000 H cash 5,000 io,oor
1 ditto 5,000 & cafl) 5,000 io,iwn
1 cash prize of *O,OOO
s do. 5,000 each,are . * to,ooc>
10 do. J,OOO -• - 10,00 c
10 do. *SOO -* - le.oijo
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
no de. 5° " 10,000
400 do. »j - - ib,ooc
1,000 do. io - lOidof.
15,000 do. 10 150,600
i6,W9 Prizes.
33,161 Hlanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,0011
N. B. Tofavour thofewho may take a quan
tity of Tickets,thepriieef 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, asd the 30,000 the last
but on e :
And apprOA-rdriotes, securing payment in eithe
money, or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, vfrill
he received sot acymunbcr Eot lelsthin 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford all elsgpit fpecinen ef
the private b«il4it>gs to be ertfis'i in the City oi
Wafliitigton—Tv. o b«aut»fol-<lefig>Tk' ar< already
iele&edfor tbe entire fronts on two of the public
fquarcs; from those drawing*it ispropofed toerecft
t wocentre'an'd 'oufqatf.er bciUingo.'as soon p pof
fihleafter thia lottciy isfald, and to csiivey tlicin,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the fchcmt for the Hctel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to d.-fray the necessary ejpenfes of print
»4ig, &c. and the furplu' will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Univerffty, to
be ercdled within the city of Waihiiigton.
.The real fecuritiesgivefi for the payment of the
Prizes, held by the Prcfidedt and two Dire>s!-
ors of the 1 Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL 11 LOpGHT.
Tieketsmay be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; oi James Weil & Co. Baitimoie; of Peter
.Gilmar., Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard W/SIU, Cooper's Ferry. nlwf
R E M G V A "L.
Maurice Moynihan,
INFORMS hii friends and the public, that he
Ins rern»veri his Store of China, Glris, Qneens
Ware, and Dry Goods, from No. gl Ndrth Se
cond, to No, 71 North Seventh Street, north east .
corner of Cherry Alley, where he solicits the fa
vcr of his former ai^omers.
N. B. Crates put up with care at tla« fllortell
notice. '
november a.
Real Eltate for hale,
PLANTA TION, in a healthy and good si- '
x. JL fnation on Chelter Crfck, in Middlcten
Tetra&tp, Delaware County, containing 1191
acres, upwards of 50 acres of which are wood
; Und, well tinabsred ; the remainder plough land
and watered meadow—of the latter, many more
acres can be made at a fmaJl expence. There are
on (aid pre-mifes, a good orchard of bell grafted
fruit, a iioufe, with a fpriug near the door, a fratfte
'uarn with {1 abling urnlrr, and a log tenemant on
oae part of said place. 1 Any perton inclining
to purjthafcj may view the premiifcs by applying
to Wm.Pennbjll, on said farm, and know the
erms by applying to Jonathan Pennelc, in the
to rough of Cfcctter.
B novemfrer 21. » jt eod
Philadelphia, 03. 13. '
THE fubferibers inform their friends cuftc
merj in town and country, that their fiores are now *
open in the city, and others are daily opening, md
that from the present appearance rf the prevailing
disorder have reason to hope, their friends ihay
fiiortly conic to the city with perfect faf ty. By
several latu arrivals, numbers have received frefh
supplies of GOODS.
Robert Smith tsf Co. P. W. Gullawht Isf Co.
John Davis iff Co. Sitgrea-ves £? French, •.
Ncill tf Smith, George Bob fort,
PViliberger and Smith, Thomas Ryerfon,
Alex Btjland and Co. T. R. Hardtnberg.
Jacob S?e*ry and Co. John Smith and Co-
O-wen Jona. Jones, ThomatOrr,
Keppele iS Zantzinger, William Barker 13 Co.
Adam Zantztnger, Thomas Armat CJ Son.
Jchti Fries, J. Miller, jutt. end Co.,
Benjamin tS'J. John/on.
0«a. 14
POYNTELL's ~
Paper Hangings Manufaflory t
No. 70, Chcfnut-ftreet,
IVhare be Las far Sale,
AVERY extensive stock, of every colour, and
of the molt approved pattern*, Citable for
every part of a house, with great variety of bor
ders to suit.
—Also—
A handfbme assortment of the mod fafliionaUe
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
very bed p'ain Green and plain Elue,
With Pannel Papers and a rich variety of Border*.
Moven-ber I. eo6t
WT SALE,
A Team of five excellentHprfes,
with a W?gjjon and Gears. The Horfesial-e all
young, ftrcmg, true to thetjrs,ught, and bapable
of hauling as great a weight as most in the coun
try. The Waggon and Gears are ftrone, and
in good order. Apply to ROBERT GREENftj
, Weft Town, Cheiter county, or?to
Thomas Fijher,
No. 141, S. Second Street, Philadelphia
* T r **o- 2, coid3w.
r imported inthefbipMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Sh ewe ll , Matter,
From fioufileaux, and for (ale by the fubferifeer,
No. ii Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy ~i
Irifli market claret in cases I Entitled to
Medocwine, in dp. <" Dye whack.'
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS FOR PALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quart* calks
Rota 60. do. .
Pimento in bags
4,000 buflieis Liverpool fait.
_ W- tat&stf
-1 Peale's Museum.
THIS valuable Vepofitory of the works of Na
ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the cmdcr.landing, id opened daily,, ai
usual. It Hands in an airy and healthy situation,
and free from the epidemic that at present afEifls.
tise city; it may, therefore, he frequented witli
' the greatest fafety.
: As an Anrufement, the fludy of Nature is thd
moll rational aud pleating : as a Science, the
. sublime and inljruAive. It elevates the mind and
etpands the heart. They
" WLom Nature's tvoris can charm, tvitb God himftlf
" Hold convcrfc"
Many interel'iog additions have lately been
made to this Muieum t and the feathered tribe,
containing a variety of the mull rare and beautiful
( fubje<ss, is now very advantageously atranged.
Waxen Figures, of Men large as life (feme of them
f cads from nature) are here dreiTed in their proper
habits, and j laced :n attitudes charaderiitic of their
refpeilire nations. Here may be fscn the North-
American Savage, and the Savage of SoMth-Ameri
ca—a laboring Chinese, and the Chinese Gentle
man—the sooty African, and the Kamtfchadak—
with tome Natives of the South Sea Ifiands. Th«
' immense variety and interesting diversity which
this MidVum offers to the view, may be seen but
1 eannotbe deftribed with full efT»A.
' ,J5" Price only l-4th of a Collar.
1 Seyt. »8. law
Davis 1 s Law Booh Store,
~) No. 319) High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS, ,
BKINO busied for fom« time past in prrpara
tions for removing into tns present- house,
been under theneceflity of poilporinguntil this day .
' informing the gentlemen, Bar genexally thro'
the tfnitcd States, that, his fpriug impprtat:on of
- Uw bcoks ii now 2nd ready lor lale, on
E tt rms that he trufls will entitle him to tlielite ptV
-1 freence he has leveral years past.
Catalogues, coml-iaing the mof"- varied toiler
r tion c-yer imported i.ito thkcountry, are printed,
1 and will be delivered on application-
June 27. 33w
r JBdftoti Glals Manufactory.
( cithers of the Uoited States are hareby
A that the manufacture of Window
r Glass is now commc&eed at the GlafsHeufe in Bof-i
\ \ ton.
It is necdhrfs to fay uny thing of the excellent
, quality of the Boston as it isfovWell kowr.
1 throughout the United States to be in evory refpeA
i greatly superior to any ever imported from Europe,
1 It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
- may be constantly had by applying to Charles £.
f Kurr eR> at the Gbfs House.
3 Orders from ?!ie i'.iftar.t States to be addreflbdto
Mr. Samitei- Gore, Gourt-ftreet, Boston.
Boston, sept 30,' 1797 G 4 —2aw6vv
Mffis. Tirmtby and Mafqn, CharleJlcn ; Mrffrs,
t Hodge and Boylan, Halifax, N. C. Mtjfrs. WiUett
ard 0 y Connor, NorfJk ; Mr. Ellis Trice, Alexandria ;
JVEeJfrs* Yunit and Broivn y Baltimore; Mr. fjepkint,
eiu-York ; and Mtffrs. Httdfon Gcodivin t Hart
r ford i Air. Seymour, Savannah ; are requefed to irfrrt
; the abeve once a iveek 6 iveeks. TLc accounts to ■ ■>: -
f ivardt tie Editor.