of cfjc :*»f Philadelphia Daily Advertiser,
\'V VMSK/t j 574.. J
sAL E5 Bjf Auc Ti O jtf.
Stated Sales
For D R T GOO #S.
C Fovenoon—Edward Fox, No. 56.
Monday J, ./ outh P"»«'®r*et,
y J -THcnioon—-Foomtuu & Co. No. Sj
C South Front-ftiect.
( Fwenoon—J&iSiiß Connelly, Old Cin
Tit'/dayJ Audliori, No. 7 j fout'h l'roni'ftreet
J J ) Afternoon—William Sliannoii, No
(.183 High-street.
. Vednefdaj \ A ternoon—Pettr fltnfcw, No. 74
I ' fo'u.th flrrd-ftvcet.
'Tburfdoi $ '' orenoon —£4ward F6x.
( Afternoon—John Ccm.elly.
frfdat f f" rclK "' a —Will vi;» Shannon.
5 Afternoori—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Pcte» Benfon.'
havann'a,sugars'.
FOR SJLF,
H OO eaoxes and calks prune white tJavan
na SUGARS, „
On board the (hip Hamburgh Packet, Si'ii
Swim,- Master, now !vfng at Marcus Hot*
For terms, apply to Capt. Sw 1 in, on board, to
Capt Samurl Smith, is front, near Wal
nut street, or to
Philip NicLlin, & Co. «
,r ' lo °^-' r t^c l"aid Ship
Hamburgh Packet
; < ; sshS&r For SALE Or CHARTER.,
She a .iio.tov* regiller, coppered to the bends,
faijs renwr-knp y faft, and Sill bj ready to re
ceive a cai-gu in a few days.
*T- d2«'
Antigua Rum"
JU' T arr.ved at \y 'minjton, DjcJawsre
State, a'.d r.ow landing From on beard the
Witl-.sm Williams, Master,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof
for Sale hv
Jehu Hottingf%jorth Ifj Co.
V.'TiningtoJi, Sept. xi. • dtf
B. The above Brig,
, anJ lhe GAYOSIO, arc
)JEt V'i a "° f° r S»le or Charter, and
as_Ltti«-»ow ready to receive a cargo
on board, Wilmington. Apply as above.
For Savannah,
The fa ft failing (hip,
'Jfeplc SWIFT PACKET,
ji^^V PATR,CK Gribbin, Master,
Now lying opposite th; mouth
of Fianktrird Creek, has handsome accommoda
tiong, fbr.pafiengers, and will fail on pr about
the lit of Qdober.
Eor freight or pa(T'ge apply to the master on
board, or 01 the fuh'rribers at Frankford, 5 1-2
, rr.ilcfc from Philadelphia.
Natprg & y. Frazier.
Ffrinkford, Sept. |g. dtiftO.
Fr HAMBURGH,
r I ""HE Copper Bottomed Ship
V FAVO KIT E, Hti
Thompson,, Mifirr, now at
i t v 't« ; S I)ri K t,, ' t wharf, ihd will be rea
■jLo• ''T tot.ikc in on Monday next,
part of her cargo being engag-d
»nd ready to go 011 hoard. 1 lie ship"is fa well
known- that it is needless to describe her. she
is now in c.ompleat order. For Freight or Paf
1->ge, please to applv at Mr Jeremiah Warder's
Couipting House, No. 12, North Third street,
«r to the Mailer on bord.
August 30.
For SALE,
On board the said Ship, Su edifh Iron, aflorte 1
Hollow and Window Olafs, Demvjot ns, Wrap
ping Paper for Sugar Refiners, Ru'gs of 1 & j
Quality. Please to apply as above.
wf&m4w
White Havanna Sugar.
1461 boxes 1 of very fupcriwr quality : • v difcharg
-7f J'hds. \ iiig from tUe-/bip Harrlu gh Packet,
at Walnut Street wKarf—and forfalc by
Philip Nickiin ijf Co.
N. B.
THE SHIP
Hamburg Packet,
®' LAS Swain, Master,.
For Sale, or Charter.
Aug. 14. eotf
T O ET OTD,
And pojftjjion given immediately,
A LARGE cxvo flory<hrick Houfe,hwidfomely
situated in Princeton. There are four rooms
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
theg trrrt, a r::n ;e of back buildings 51 feet in
length, and a piazza of feet. J here is a pump
in the yard, an excellcut kitchen garden, at the
farther fcnj of which arc a earyage houfc and two
flables, one of which is new, 44 fact long, with
flails in the two (tables for 17 liorfes. The heal
thiness and pleasantness of its situation, and the
number of genteel and agreeable families in and
n«ar the town, reader it a desirable retreeat for a
gcjjtleman from the city. The commodioufnsfs of
the house, it" central po fit ion, and the largeness of
the stables, make it|«vcryweyfuitable for a tavern,for
which it has always been qonfidcrd as a capital
fiaiid. Inquire on the preaiifcs, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Arp. 25. 29 —dtw2awtf *
* NOTICE. ~
IF Tbidv O'Hara, who fojne years fincekept
Schoe! at the Nine Bridges, Queen's County, Eas
tern Shore, Maryland, be living, he is hereby re
min<fed »o call on, or write to, the Rev. Ambrose I
Marihal, near Warwick, Cecil County, Eastern *
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will receive iii- 1
terefting information.
A:t*ujl 4. mw&f4\v j
ImpdrtedjnthefiiipSlANCHEstEß, 1
Benjamin Shewbll, Master,
From Bobrdeaux, and for lale by the fubferiher, ,
No. it Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy
Irifti market claret in cases I Entitled to
Mcdoc wine, in do. ( Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrayd.
who has for sale. '
Shen-y Wine in pipes and quarte. cafLs
Rota do. i do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tst&stf.
PHIL ADELP HI A , MONDAY EVENING, SEP TEMBER 25,17 07"
WANTED
B'lls 011 Aniflerdam, at a fight, not exceeding six
ty dnys, .ind witn approveillmlofft-f s, tothe amount
)t two hundred thoufajid guilder*--for which cash
V J» he pal " at the rati 01 thirty eight cents a guit
'' f. < | rJ ~ A| 'P llcati oP s tf> m "*de: to George Simpfon,
I'.vq. Caihier of the B:'.4z of the Xjnited States.
'S Srpt.,4. dtf
ty Young Hyson Tea.
0 " 40 chells of .1 fnpei ior tjuiility—:-Alio,
100 do. of Uj fiin,
Imported hi the IFimdrap Simj, and for sale by
the fubferiber, coriter of. Second and.Pii;e
.street.
C. Hai*hti
June xt.
Imported in the Jhip Pigov, ~
_ And for by Johr# Mortot), No. u6, South
Froiit-ftreet,
Hyson
, Hyson Skin CfFAS
Imperial J
April 20. eotf
oj' The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
a: the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, ■ v ry Tvcfdav, fhtnfJay, and Satur-
Ajfi a t 1 o'cloek, ia the iroruing ; arrives at V)o
---ver the fi-i't dpy K at SuaWhill tile fecotid day. at
Nor:h»mpton Court Houle. th< third ,d*y. aiid on
, 4 ' the morning ofTlie fourth day the paffcpgtrs find
a, fafe -.;J coinfoitaale packet to convey thain to
: Motfnik.
A packet |eav< jj Morlolk for Northamptoo feiry,
fvery 1 ueid-.y Thiirflay and Msturday, and the
- 31J-C starts from this ferry fir Philadelphia, every
Monday, \ cdfiejday and Kriiij) - ;tputs up at tine .v
. Hill tit Crft night, att)prer the xd n' -Jj, und *r
, ! rivciin Philadelphia ill the evening of the third
day. . s - >
I he distance on this rout , between Philadelphia
I and Norfolk, is So miles less than on any ftage'routc
between those places.
Too much cannot he said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
Willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
' pallengcr, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
August 11. dim. eotf.
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUN'G, corner of
Sccord and Chcfnut (Ircets, '
Price 3~Btfa of a Dollar, I
Obferyations on certain Documents '
00-itained i» Ho. V and VI of '
" The History of the United States for ■
the year 1796,"
In which rhe. en «oa or againft |
ALEXAIfJiER HAMILTON,
Late SzcxitaUt of the Tauasuay, is FULLY
REFUTEIi.
ir krtr eif Br himself. '
This publication presents a concise (latement a
cf tli| base means' praitifed by tb« Jacobins of the c
United States to asperse the charadlers of those c
p.rfors wlio are considered a« hostile to their difcr
ga- izing fchemc. It also contains the cor
refpocdence between Mr. Hamilton and Mcflrs.
Monroe, Muhlen! urgh and Venable, on the ftib
je(2 of the documents alorcl'aid, and a series of let
ters from Jr.mes Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha- r
ir.ilton, proving beyond the poffihiliiy of a doubt,
thet the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring confpirauy on the part
of the latter a>d liw afioci.ites to extort muiiey. c
A difeouut of one third from the retail price v
will be made in favnj- of wholefaie ptirchaf rs, for '
cash Orders to be addressed to Mr Yovno.
August 25. £
No. 188.*
Diflrift of Pennfytvania, to wit :
/ L s \ D® " REMhMBHREI), that on the
13 t\ycrty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Frn#o, of the said dif
tri&,hath deposited in thin office the title ofabook,
the right whereof h : claims as proprietor, ia the
words following, t-o wit ;
Obfervatiors on certain documents contained
il in No. V. and VI. of " The Hiliory of the Unit-'
4< cd States for the year 1796," in which th* charge
" of speculation, againll Alexander Hamilton, late
" Secretary oi the I'reafury, it fully refuted—
" Written by himlelf "
In conformity to 'he a& of the Cor.grcfs of £he
Uc.ted States, enritulecj, Am for the encour- |
agement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors anrf propri- j;
etorsof such copies, during tha times therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of tit Difti.ci of fe/itfolvjiii*.
J"'v 2?- ~ W4W vi
Mrs. GR AT TAN " lli
INFORMS her friends,and the public in general,
that hrr house, No. 192, Marketi-ftreet, will con
tinue open during the fieknefs.
Board and Lodging in a separate room, ten
dollars, in a double room, eight dollars.
For the .conveniu ee~ of th.ife gentlemsn who 1
have not th,air amilics in town, Mrs. GaATTAft.
will receive gentlemen to dine at halt a dollar
a da y- Ays »9—6t ti:
Imported in the latefl; arrivals f'rora
■ Amsterdam jnd Hamburg, and'Tprfale by in
B. tsf J. Bohlen, «
A large ajfortment of fne French Cambrics, t ;,
Platillas Rullja indDutch sailcloth cr
Brittannias Writing, poll, and print-
Rouines ing paper
Brown Holland Du'ch calf Ikinj
Ctiecks and flripes Prime madder
Ticklenhurgs Shell'd Barley G
Oznaliurgs Looking glalfes
White (heetings Hollow glaft wire
Diaper Slates
Brown rolls Coffee mills
Umbrellas Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and straw knives
Black and whitelaces Tovs afl'o/ted in boxes
Bell Holland Gin in pipes^
London particular Madeira Wine
July 14- m&thtf
Cedar Shingles.
THK fubferiber has a quantity of J feet Cedar
Shingles cf a superior quality, fcr sale at 13
dollars p'.r thousand.
iVilliam Ha Howell,
No. 193 Nwth th
JuJy 9?' eoiit {ll
By John Fen no, N"- 119 Che/nut Street.
C USTO M-H O US£,
■ Pbiladrtt*/':a, Sept. iii\, \-,r\n.
junt THE ito prefer hav-
I «ra..Vi,rei. B .ni;::, enter, d and
■ • cleared at C!n 'Vr or i . ' |, t ,.
' no:.L ( -.!, 'rh:i. ill . tl-cir ,k
---5" -V® u T ,nn a f«ll cor,«-;an«i that the measure
will lie «wtually>u)cSoul 10 and to the
t'nited States. TThe of jbt cuflon:-.has
m;de «rr»ng|»nenu to r some time
or aaer.e» of the tuflcm-houii .at thole places,
, Whert trery accommodation hi his power will
V be given to the tjitrchants. d'w
TO BE SOLD,~~
And immediate pqffejfnm. given,
f A Convenient well finiilicd Brick ~l enement,
j with a cook bouse and other out houses, <itu
atcd in a pleafanc part of the borough of U'ilminjr
jth ,on . 19 the St .te of Delaware—The lot of ground
his t.jrty fee- front on Weft-ffeet, and extends
" U B il 'be square to PaUui'.-.ireet, oa which is
creilcd a liable and carriapc hoofe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
_ ,0.
_ Lately Publi/hed,
la one vo). 8 vo (price one dollar in boards) fold
rn by W ILIJAM YO'JNG, comer of Second and
. ' Ch-fnm streets
jr . _'A Colleftion of Papers on the fubjeft of
>o- Billions Fevers, prevalent in United
at States for a few years "pjift.
on Compiled by MQAfi IVFBSTER, jun.
1 Containing letters from DoAors Seaßian, Smith,
£0 Buel, Taylor, Ramsay, J/lor.!pn, Reynolds, Mitch
ell,on coßtagiou, &c. &c.
■T> v 'i>t tc.
he ■ , ■
T i • City CoTnmiJfioners. Office y
Z Avwuft 29, '^7.
rd or 1.11 o!- lin»nce of the Seleoi ird
Common Councils, paSftrl the 1 it' day ofMay last.
lia Pro|iofal» in writing »ill be f eceivoc l hy the City
tc Coqatlufljoners for one Month from the' id of Sep.
tember next, for letting'to rent en feaies for
j year to commence the'firll day of Jaruary next, the
J following public pr«perty of the city—
Tlr/wha-f an 1 lauding on Vine Street,
Alfoon Miftafrat,
, Mulberry, •
And I J *igh Street*, -
Chefnut and WaVnut Streets, Braw Bridge, with
thj Scale and Filh Houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall,
of The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as (hall be occupied by any buildings erefl
ed for the use of the Colledor of the Tolls, or be
necessary for the toll-gates.)
An £- 3 .Itawim. ,
' LOS T, i
ON the Paffyunk Road, between the Blue Ball 1
and the city, a Fowling Pjrcc, with a brass !
y "ba: rel and fllver fight ; on the plate of the butt are f
th« letters " Jamaica, Q_ 99" —and on the barrel 1
near the lock u London" and the Tower stamp. !
Whoever will return the 'aid piece to John Bernard,
r atthefignof the B'ue Ball on the PafTyunk Road,
e or the cilice of this Gazette, Hull receive a reward
B of Four French Crowns,
Sept. 11.
' DUTY ON CARRIAGES. j
Notice is hereby Given,
r PHAT agreeably to an a<S of Congrcfs »f the
I United States of America, palled at Phils- L
j delphia, the 18th day of May,J796 ; laying du- >.
ti.s i.n Carriage, for the conveyance of persons, >
e which (hall be kept by or for auy person, for hi* r,
r or her own use, or to let o%t to hine, or for the b
conveyance of paflergers, the several duties and b
rates following, to wit 1 t
For and upon every Coach, 15 db!a. n
upon every Clariot, 12 dol«. j
upon every Poll Chariot, 12 dolj. -
upon every Post Chaise, i» dols. c
upon every Fkaeton,with or without top, )
9 ' i
upon every Coacbee, 9 doK
upon other Carriages, having pinneljvtirfe '
above, with blinds, glaiTes or curtains, _
' 9 dols." 1 J
upon f«ur wheeled Carriages, having frf- }
, ried polls and top« with fted fpruigs, 6 C(
do).. j
upon Tour wheeled Carriages, with wood
en <ir iron fprinpior jacks, 3 dolj. a]
tipon Currkles w.th tops, 3 dol«. t |
upon Chaifis with tops, 3 dots,
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upoO other twj wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, With Heel or
fprings, 3 dols.
For apd upon all othertwo wheel carriage*, 1 dols.
upon every four wheeled clrriage, having
framed polls and '.ops, and relling up- ,
on wooden fpar9, 2 dols.
The Collectors of the Revenue for the firft Sijr- '
vey of the Diftriit of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September n-xt, lor J?'
the puipofe of receiving the duties 011 Carriages, at ' u
' Germantown ;at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efq. hi
in the County of Montgomery; and at thehoufe w
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ; c '
of which all persons pofftfled of fuck Carriages are a>
defired to take notice, al
Notice is also given, bl
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will be grant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the busi
ness of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or "
in iefs quantities than thirty gallons—and one li- 8
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than 30 gallons, at
the fame time and at the lame places, by the olhc
crs legally authorifedte grant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,'
Infpe&or of the Reveni?e of the firft fur
yey of rhe Diftriil of PennfyWaifia. _
Office ol litfpeccion at .
Germantow, iarh Sept. f7py. 3
' IMPORTED a
Im the lhip America, Janie? Bwing, matter, from
Hamburgh,
Crown Hollands
White Plntilla* A
Tickler&HTgt
Coaifc Linens
" a.
Looking G'aftcs "J . r
Glass 'I umbkrs j m cases '
FOR BY
George Pennock.
Atgufl r4. _____ aw of
Ad laying Duties on Stamped Vellum 3
Parchment and Paper. 0 j
A FEW copies of the above aft may be had at ol
the Office of the Gazette of tlic UciteJ States, No
J 119, (.'lnj::ut-'ilrcet. July J9l
i o be Sold at*Pub!ic VeAdiu;,
ON>;0 N > ; r,d ' ly - rhe 2 ' P r ecift!y at rli• cc
v '" ° c |' n ck in the afternoon, at the %uof the
id Kin> of Pi ufi.j., near the maffcst hoi'fe in Gcr
l- .T^:Uown ; . 'wf. jVory ftprt; barn
' Jl '" " and <• - .if res :16 jjcrchts of'
e ground, part of vh.ch uan orchard of ewtlknt
ic iruit t«;ccs, fituaie i;caf the middle of Gerfti an
ts ?Omi, o> jhe north cast ftde of the main.iireet
>e or. road, ton tain ing i n front on the &id) flreet
6, or r ..4«1 Tjcj feet nine inches; bounded by ground
II of JV. Btivon and others and oppolite to the
o'dnuge and fat of Melchior Ming, The above
lot is irood cover rfneadow, and has a never
failing iirearn of water running through it,
A.'so th-E&q* other Jots t>f ground, each contain
» nag afjont two acrefs, fit irate on the south east
fid«* of Rittrnhouft's M ill road, commorfly cailtd
a cterSinith's Lane, in Gernuntown townfoip,
at the distance of 2.70 yards from the south welt
| fide of the Gcrmmtowp main flrcet, bounded
by lands of Conrad Carpenter, James Qg'eby,
Jacob Iveaut, and Mefohior Ming. .The above "
Jo.s-a'-e high and pl#afant!y situated, command
- a pleating prr»ipe& of Germantown and the
Schuylkill and Wifljhircon hills, and are well
i for gentlemen's country feats. The
1 2re now in clover, and thc r e are or. the
lame upwards of 2co grafted fruit-trees,
f A grood and indifpuuble title, clear of all m-
cumbrances* will be given to the purcbafcr
twenty days after the sale, upon the payment
of one half of the purchase money, and le uring
the other half by mortgage upon the ixure ha fed
' premises.
Wfiffion &f the firft defevibed lot and prerrti*J
fes may be hid or. the 17th April next, aftd im
- mediate poflf.Tion may he hid ofthethiee lift
mentioned U.t-.
Any perfnn, wishing to view the above tre
j mile, may fee the fame b) applying to Bcuj.
Lehman, in Germaniown near the Market
houle. ED .VARp FOX, Auctioneer.
Germantown, ud Sept. 1757. ctS
Sundry Lots
IN the following Squares in the City of Walhing
ton wijl be exposed to Public Sale, by thefub
fcribcrs, on the i'efond Monday in Odober next,
at the Little Hotel, in thefaid Cily, to com
mence it Ic*o'clock :
Square No. 32, 42, 43, 44, 47, 48, 49> JO , ;S,
06, 67,68, 69, 70, 73.74,7J, 7.6, 77, 78, 79,101,
10* 105,118,119,120,141,61,56,84,104, 87,
88, 89, 104, 114, "J, "o, 61, 166, 80,103,
square east of square 8 7, square south of square 104,
square north of square 81, square east of square 88,
square north of square 128.
These Lots are advantageously situated in the
neighborhood of the President's Square, and deem
ed equal in value to any in the city, and will be
peremptorily fold ; clear and valid titles will ba
made to the pui chafer, op receipt of the purchase
money. Terms of sale, are, good notes, negotia
bleat the Bank of Columbia, one fourth part in
one month, one other fourth in three months, one
other fourth in five months, and the remaining one
fourth in seven months.
WILLIAM DEAKINS, jun.
URIAH FOR*EST.
Sept. 11. dts ,
At the Federal Bjaft Furnace, 1
In Carver—for Sitting, Platting, and Rolling i
Mills. !
SEYMOUR's Patent Rollers.
THE IA Juperiority conjijli in being free from
bales and boney-combed plaees, <w!ncb are com
monly found in rollers tajl in /and, or clay
moulds. Thrfc patent rollers are cajl in :rci:
moulds, previonjly heated, arid will be found to
be more dense, Jotid and durable ti-an a: y rellers'
hcretcforeufed. Another important au vantage i
they, have over others, is, that the net/is require I
no turning, but are immedaitely Jit fur use, and f
from their accuracy, run ivith less friHion, and '
require iefs water to make them perform their, c
work. 1 bey m,ay be had by application to the c
Patentee in Plymouth, of G.-n. Nathaniel Good- '
zvin, or of i.teJfrs.Tbatcher and ihy d. 1
IUJIw, slug. 3 i. ' c
s 'l"; '9- §Ct- r
Mr. L AILSON,
WITH an intention to rend r fcrviee, and unde- '•
ceivc those Performers, jvl-.o duritg his alienee Mr.
Jaymond has thought proper to engage, thinks it °
Would be wrong in him not to inform tliofs that "
are engaged, that it is witling Jus approbation, and "
that he will not be in any way snfwcrable for 1 a
Jayraond's engagement e,
"PHILIPPE LAILSON. °
Alexandria, Sept. 15, 1797 6t. ''
THE SUBSCRIBERS,. *l,
ASSICNBES OF JAMES GREENLEAP,
HlikitßY give notice, that they have disposed
of the pij..perty aflrgued to them for the fecui ing "
the payment of the note, acceptances, and en- Cl
dorfements given by Edward l f ox, for the use < C '
of the iVid James Greenltaf; and the holders of "
I'uch n.otcs, acceptances, and endorlements, are
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will 1-ftle ,■
with them for th» amount of their refpeiftive t ,
claims, both principal and TNTtKEsr, at c;
any time before the acth day of Oilober next; c ;
after which day, the holders not applying, will ft
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of afTigti- 31
ment. a,
ApplicJtions to be made at south-east corner t.
of Dock and Second streets (the Doek-ftreet ai
fide), between the 1-iours of eleven and one o' !>>
slack eveiy day, Sundays excepted. v
Henry Pratt, oi
T/jo. IF. Francis,
John Miller, Jun. I
'John AJhley, f
Jacob Baiter. tl
Philadelphia,
Just published, ™
Antl<o be fold at the Bcokftorej of H. df P. ai
Rice, No. 50, Market-street j J. Ormrod, ~
No. 41, Chefnut flreet, and \V. Young, jr
Morner of Chefnut and Second-ftreels, u
An atcurate System of Surveying; so
IM WHICH IS CON! AINFD,
i. Decimal fr3<flion», in a plain, concise, e ,
anil ealy manner.
a. The extraiflion of the square roof.
3. Plain trigonometry, rei?.angui|r and ob-
lique. ui
4. An exadl method to «aft up the content*'
of lands. I
5. Field furveyiojr. 1 f e
The whole being performed without the use f„
of scale and compafTis, on a table of logarithms.
Irt which is given, some account of the variation ur
of jhe needle, End the eaufi s of its attrafiioir.
By SANH/rX MOORE.
' H0M.45 Herman
ei? North *ifch itrect, corner cf North alley, No. 34,
l,c HAS TOR. SALE,
r J? red koiitvlcsiis Wir.e iu cafuasd
S» 4- U vwrv ■ • -
' " Tme Ot .vc% VF}ue in caliesi '
lit rifhlvninif/'i
1' Rutfia Sail Ctothg
Ct Ravens buck
et Bagliinen
lt | Hessians
te Diaper ajul T#Me CJoth 1
Jt Empty Uagjj ■ « .
, r Coraaion Uerman Cloth
An affortmeucof black coloured Ribbons
Pine German Laces
;f About twelve tons Ruflia clean Hemp
( j Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in small boxe«,'for family use
It Windoy Glaw ue 2q —nw
d l ITTs DAY vVA.H PUHi.! IiEU;
. And for We by 7H&M-AS DOBSON, at the
e, Stoiie House, No. '4l, south Second Ureet,
EVENINGS at HOME;
<■ | OR,TI-IE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
| CanflAing of a variety of Miscellaneous Pieces for
e th« iiiftruition ami ajnufemcnt of Y-OUNG' PER
e SONa—Six Volumes handfonicly printed xnd bound
up iu two volumes, price Two Dollars.
Ihe variety and excellence o£ thefo pieces are
r that the book need* oniy to be known'to be
t uruvejfafly efireftjed one of the rrtoft valuable pub
r licatidhs th t can be put if»to the hands of
j persons.
<k - Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
1 o. teach the you ha id'- a how t-» ihont.
To pour ti <g freffi inllrudion o'er the mind,
i he generous purpefe in tlieglowmg breail."
Two V! SON.
t * THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
7UOMAS DOBSON) at the Stone Houfct,
Nor 41, south Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Young Ladies, on Smproving and iiv
teretling fubje&s.
. Translated from the Dutch ol' Madame de Gtahrt
, with alteration* and improvements,
Printed onfne p.ptr, and neatly Leu,id,
Price one .
AMIDST the tide of modern Raminccs, paintirg
tales ef extraordinary ditlrefs, or of defpeiate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be tor the honor of yeung ladles to
bt ignorant of, this little book comas, forward to fa
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real lif* t the proper, becauf*
elegait and natural dignity and important of th« Female
character is exhibited in an intereding point of view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publifter was fomueh pleased with the pert>-
sal, that he was persuaded he should do a pleasing
service to the community by fending it in o circti
lation. August 24 —mw4w
To Masters and Pilots bringing up Vtjfch
from Foreign Ports to this City.
TTTHercfundry infringements have lately been
» » made on the laws of this (late for the pre
venting peflilential or infectious diseases, either
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publlfh the following ex
tracts from the laws of I2d April, 1794, 7th and
Bth fe&ions.
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794.
Extrnß of an aSfor securing the tin an J port
cf Philadelphia from the iutrodkdioK of lefti
fi'irtjal and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And be it fu; ther enaAcd, that avery
niaftt r or captain of any (hip or vessel ecming froai
fe» (veflcls tclurtlly employed n the coasting trade
excepted) and bouhd to any port or place within
the junfdi&ion of Pennfylvania.fhaU caufc his ibip
or veael to be brought to anchor,or otherwise flay
e i in the ftrcam of the river Delaware, oppefiu to
the Kealth-Ofßee on Stutv-ICand aforefaid, and
there to remain until he ihal] have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of heal b from the Rvfidcnt Pby
fician. And it, previsufly to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any matter or captain thall
fu(fer hisfhip or vessel to approach ticartr than the
(aid Health-Office to the city (/ Pkiladeiphia, or
fha.'l land, cause orfuffer to be landed, or brought
on fljore, at any place or port within (his Cor-.-
ptppwealth, or at ar.y other port or place,\vithtlie
intent o( being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any perfoq or perfoils, or any goods, wares or mer
chandise, or, if after receiving Tuch bill of health
O" certificate, he lhall negkd or refufe to deliver
the tarn- to the Heatth-QHici-r, such matter or cap
tain fiiall forfeit arm p.-.y, for each and every futla
offence, thefumof five hundred dollars.
And die captain or mailer of every ship or ves
sel shall fend a fufe and commodious boat to bring
the physician on board< and shall in like manner
convi y him back to the Htalth-Office, after be ha*
concluded hi* official examination ; .-ind while he
i- nuking such exaluitjation, or in rase any subse
quent examination by the Health Officer »r Con
fuking Pliyfician, agreeably to the dire&ions ot'O
thi- a6i:, the mailer or captain thallexpote or cautc
to be cxpoted to the Cef.rih of the Refider.t Phyfi
cian,ot of the Health Officer and Confuting I'hyfi
ciau (as the cafe may be) each and every part of the
ftip or vessel, and lhall present to hi* view eac£
and every person cr pcrfors on board thereof, and
and lhall also true an 4 fatisfaelory anfwdrs malws
to all such qucftions as the Resident Physic ian, &c.
at ihe time of examination lhall alk velative to th«
health of any, peitor place fr«m which the (hip o(s
veftel tailed, or has finee touched at—the number
of perfons,on board when the ship or vessel entered
on her voyage—the number ol pcrfons that hav»
tince been larnttd or taken on board, and whe»
and whererefpedlively—what persons on board
f they hafe been during the voyage, or ffiVll, at
the time of examination, beinfeded with any pes
tilential or contagious disease—and what is the pre
terit state and condition cf the parsons on board
with refped to their health or diseases. And if
any mailer or captain shall refufe to expose as afore
aid, to the starch of any of the officers
H if he fhal 1 conceal anyfttk per/ox, or in anf other mum
ftr dtcMt toe proper officers aforefaid in lis aa/rvers.
uch captain cr matter, for every such offence, ffiafi
forfeit and pay the sum of riye hundred do»-
LAKS.
vSec f. 8. And if asiy person or persons whatf»-
ever (tbi Resident Physician, A.c. excepted) fhatl
go on board any vessel, "before the matier thereof
has received a certifies: 1! of htaMi in the manner
directed, every person so off:ndrng, lhall pay th*
Uin of ONE HONDRrD DOtLARS
IT being a' fotutely necessary that the foregoing
fecSions fhoula be punelually with, fh«
fubferiber, in compliance with his duty, nwft: ex*
ail a rigorous observance of tho lame, or else b*
undef ti« necdli'y of putting the laws in force.
\Y«. At.I.KN, Health Ojfccr of tit
Pert of /'yiUddphia.
■ Ju!y 14. «ljvr
[Vcij'Mr XIIiappf
PHILADELPHIA, j"
MONOAV EVENING, Sf ptfmbkr i the ;
* ;' r ' ■ -- --- ' ' ■ ' ' * ■- ; ode?
Fr?m ."'v Aursx.u
" Voting" Aiattls'negocirttiohs, haire
a Marriage Treaty with anfing-
ilh lady—'the of Mr. Johnson, on
Faw«f Hill his.a Happy circttmftaoce that at t!
he has tf\ade no 6ther Treaty." ,
COM MVS IC/if ton. ]
I'hvmaliciods Jacobinical fn?at"with which
the E i.iOr of thc Aurora has ac- , *j
cc'i.i i vied refpeiS
liiT t» - '.naniage of Mr. AdartiS, gives room j j
to'helicve that he knew better when he cal- : No
ltd the amiable bride " an Englilh lady, tti e J No
daughter (jf one Mr. Johnson, of Tower Hill." J°
't*hc- faa is that both the Miss Johnson tu
ilnd her parents are Americans by birth and
by principle-; and the family are-only de
tained from their intended residence iu- the
Federal City (where Mr. Johnson has a neat Co
estate) by hisconfular appointment to Eng- N;
land and Cqme unsettled concerns in the mer-
Cantile line.
Amj;i;r other patriotic merits, which this,
worthv fnnily may well boart, Mr. Thomas
Jtttinfon, ujK'le to Mrs. Adams, was the
man tVho in Cougrefs in 1776, firll riomi
tinted C-'orge Wafnington for our command
er i.i ci.ief. ,
[ A!thou 1\ the abovemalicious paragraph '
originated in t*iat common Cource of falfe
hood mid /lander the Lying Chronicle, yet
this docs not exculpate Bache, whd mud i
have known that in copying it, he was giv- H
ing ctivreilcy to a mifrepTgientation.] 1
' Under a late London date, it is mentton
ed, that thf King of Naples had again fal
len iiitT r the controul of the politics of the
Qr-r*-:'' and Gen. Atlbn, and that the French
rriTniller had not been abie to obtain an au
dience..
' ; _ ■ A
From the' Lyirir Jacobin Chronicle.
" " It is said that the British commander
on the American station, has d>fpatchcd 2
fioopa of war in pursuit of ore French pri
vateer on our coafl, to protest our trade—
But in v.hat way ? It is a well established
fad, that for more than fix months pad,
the Britijh have iratically tafctn and plun-
dered more-property from the Americans
than the French ; so much for your boasted
Sriirfit PrttiSit* ! t" I
T!ie jacobins have all along intermixed 1
with their downright lies, a variety Of j
phillry and wire-drawn (tuff, called argu- (
ir.ent. At present they have no other re- ..
f.urcc left than ftieer,. positive lying, as I
above. '
MACHIAVEL wasanenthufiaftforliber- '
ty, -n;d an ardentdefende'r of theliberty of his (
country. He engaged in fevrral conspira
cies to deliver Florepce, his native city,from
the usurpation of'-the Medicis : and nei
ther tie vtngeatce*oF this potent family
could rc'train, nor their fervours extinguish,
the h ;Kd he entertained against the men
whom he regarded as tyrants of his Coun
try. H's genius was v.fl, vigorous aivl
p letrati'.g ; his undtrflanding just ; his
k vled'Je of the moll* varied kind ; his ftu
<lv > - n and things was profound ; and
aity of his mditical refleilions, few
•a is have equalled. The history of his
1 r.'c cityi for ages, torn in pieces by pas- ,
{ ui and pariy, fnggefted and verified the
following observations of his.
cities which are administered under
the name of a republic, are continually
chmg'ug their gbverOmajt and their con
dition, not from liberty to slavery, as many
b. !>cve, but from slavery to licentiousness.
For it is the name only of liberty, that is
courted by the populace, the agents of licen
ti'.'ufiicfs, or by nobles, the agents of slave
ry ; each of them having it equally in view,
to free from all fuhje&ion, either
to laws or to men. And it is a truth, that
■when it Intppensv (which rarely happens)
that by the gond fortune or a city, there
rifcs in it, a wife, a good, and a potent citi
zeu, to establish laws, by which these paf
60'ns »>f the nobles, and the people, may be
ftiifed, or, so rellraiijed, that they can work
no evil, then only may this city be called
free, and its government be deemed firm and
liable. 1
For being founded on good laws and wife
regulations, it needs not, like other dates, I
the virtue of any one man to maintain it.—
Such laws and regulations several of the an
cient republics (those of them which had a
ny long duration) had the good fortune to
enjoy. And those dates whicji wanted or
wa it Inch laws and regulations, wire and
are continually changing their governments,
from tyranny to anarchy, and from this to
something else : because, in them, by the
powerful enemies which each of these forms
of government hath, there neither is nor can
be any (lability ; for the one does not please
good men, and the other wile men;
the one can easily do mifchief, and the other
can hardly do good ; in the one, insolent
men have too much authority, and in the
other fools ; and neither the one nor the o
ther can be maintained but by the virtue and
fortune of some one man, who may soon be
removed by death, or rendered useless by
his labours.
To apply the observations to ourselves.
We have a conditution, which effe&ually
secures us from tyranny, by redraining eve
ry branch of the ajlminidration within due
bounds. Our gacat danger if* from a dis
regard of the laws, from licentipufcefs, from
amrehy. Let us condautly beware of
.Shjofe men, who inflame our pallions, by
speaking ill cf the adminidraton of that gov
ennment, in which our liberty and bappiuefs
consist* Under the' pretence of regard for
<»( liberties, they court us firft to Bate ;
then, to defplfe, and then to refill/the Jaws,
violate the government, degenerate into li
centiousness, plunge into anarchy, and bury
ourselves in ruin.
f X Jt'J srji>r\i jf pt- irc-j ut nHt of tfce JJrttiltl ***?
Magilzi.i.s tor 1785, upon the oi-olioo tff the
O|>jioliitriic*lkbf a poet-Lweat. It bears ftrnng
marts of ihe pen of IVtel* P rid.ir, or some kin
i tired gt-nws. Aft.-r giving, with an iroYiica! P' 1 1
j'Sppeanncc of offil.ll niin.'Unt-IV, an account ol b
i the proceedings of the day, rvrnbltioivary .midi
■ ode', are itftroducid as recittd by various ceie- cor.l
bratcd. peifor.jges. ' M»>ft of thele are too locai c | v ||
and perional to attraiQ, the attention of an Ame mgn
rican reader The lo'loWirig, bowevei., may .
entertain in'the name of H ra.ntll 'p
tTie celebrated traveller, sjnd aiming a (ide-blow la ' t(
at the prevailing taste for the liyle of Gray, j ra! g
' on !
. ODE, ord
I By WILLIAM WRaXALL, EiVj. M. P. a ft c
v ' I - rfi a ,
MURRAIN fsh* the Kwlfe of Commons, -
! Hoarse cftarrH'tbiir windpipes fhaite,
j Who deaf to travc'JM J.earifing's fumnjGHK, , ,»" a
j. Rudely cßiigk'n whenc'jer I spake I x cot:
! North nor+"ox'j ihund'ri g cockfe, it v
| Nor e'en the Speaker, ty: -tt, (ball have, force J ac
| Tofave thy « alls ' re/ielies, jr r(
From Wraxall's Votes, from Wraitall's speeches,
'Geogfaphy. t«rraque«Hs maid, ~ ;
Descend frdm globes to StatefmeH's aid I , tl
.Again to heedless cruu di unfold i f l3 '
Truths unheard, tho' not untold : .. cy
Come, and once more unlock this vally world— Ipn
. Nations attend ! th"e mop of earth'J unfurl'd. t j t
• m
Begin the song from where the Rhine,
The Kibe, the Danube, Wcfef rolls—
S - foftph, niqe circles, forty seas are thine—
-3 1 hine,. twenty million fouls**-*- - 1,11
s Upona majnfn flit and dank le<
Stales, Six and One. no
Dam the dykes, the seas embank, Q f
the Don 1 C 3
A gridiran'tform the yroud Efiurial rears,
1 While south of Vincent's Cape anchovies a
glide j
t But all 1 o'er Tagus' once auriferous tide,
I V priest-rid Qtteen Brsjjanza's sceptre b-ars V
- Hard fate 1 that i : .ft>oi/s Diet-Drink is known to
To cure each crazy eonflitulion but her own.
1- IM. b(
I bnrn, 1 burn, I glow, I glow,
With antic and with modern lore ;
1 rulh f-offi Bofphorus to Po,
h To Wilus from the Nore
1- Why were thy Pyramids, O Egypt, raia'd, t j
But to be meifur d, and be prais'd ?-*
Avaunt, ye Crocodiles 1 your threats are vain ! r
On Norway's seas, my foul, unfhsken, P'
, r Brav'd the Vts fnakc and the Crakeq ; tl
Aad Jhall I heed the rivci'&fcaly train ! b
? Afric, 1 scorn thy Aligator band I it
Qosdrant in hand j(
1 lake iny stand, j- (
:d And eye thy moss cl»d needle, Cleopatra -
I, grand ! - ,
1 . O, that great I'ompey's pillar were my own ! 11
j Eighty-tight feet the fhaft, and all one ftonel u
, ( But hail, yc loft Athenians ! o
: Hail also, ye Armenians 1 t
Iljilancr ye Gretks.ye Remans, Carthaginians! u
.J Twite hail ye Turks, and thrice ye Abyffinian#!
Hail, too, o Lapland, with thy squirrels airy 1
riai!, Commerce»catchirig Tipperary 1 1
U ~ Hail, wonder-working Magi! 0
e " Hail, Ourang-Outang 1 Hail! Anthropophagi! r
as Hail, all ye cabinets of tvery Rate, v
From poor Marino's Ilill empire a
E rfit ! . , 1
« r . All, all ha*e chiefs, who speak, who write, who
3 seem to think,
Carmarthen?, Sidneys, Rutlands, paper, pens, <
" a " and ink. 1
>m IV. ,
ei- Thus, through all climes, to earth's remotest (
ily goal, ' ]
fh, Fiom burning Indus to ibe freezing Pole,
ien In chaises and on floats,
jn In dillies and 1n boats.
Now on a camel's native ft.jol,
. Now On in ass, now on a mole,
Nabbfs and Rajahs have I seen ;
lu- Old Bramins mild, young Arabs keen j
Iml Tail Po'ygars,
' ew Zemindars,
j,j s Maho.-nraed's tomb, Killarncy's lake, the fame
ia f of Ammon,
, " j With all thy k-ngi and qaeeus, ingenious Mrti
thc Salmon!
Yet vain of war,
der Vain the cut velvet on their backs —
illy George, mighty George, is flefh & blood—
on- No head he war.ts of wax or wood ;
His hea't is good !
„f a . (\s a king's (hou'd)-
And every thing he faya is undcrftood.
"■ , ■
wc ~ For Hamburgh,
I>,e 6 ° otl Br ' 8
hat SUKEY,
ns ) ifltkifredcnburghy Majlcr,
icre 1W
:iti- "VT'OW lying at CTiff rd's wharf, in tomplete
/ i.\ order to take in a cargb, and wll receive
freight on low terms.
b , e Please to apply to GEORGE DOBSON,
' or * t r?o. 1 S south Third-street.
lied N. B A few JpafTengers can be accommo at
and ed, if speedy application is, made.
Sept. is }
wife -i—
---tes, # # * A special Meeting of the
t- feleit and common Conmils of ihe City of
an " Philadelphia, is to be held at the Pennsylvania
da- Hospital on Tuelday the i6th inft. at 9 o'clock
eto in the morning on business of Importance, at
J or which place it is hr>p«d the members will at
an<j tend—the Hospital being clear of the prevailing
... fever.
' FRANCIS GURNEY, Prefideut
8 to ' of the fel (ft council
the SAMUEI, HODGDON, Prefi
>rmg dent us the common council
can Sept. 22 <ijt
lease
S; Port Wine.
ilent ~~
t i, Jufl arrived, by the brig Iris, capt Rhodes, from
Oporro.
e °" R<d Port '.Vine in pi|Xi»,hhds. and quarter calks
and gc c\ct. Cork, for faie by J
1 be Philips, Cramond, & Co.
by July at. § •
s»—■ _____
tally Thomas Armat and Son,
eve- OF PHILADELPHIA,
e TNFOKM thr'r customers and'he f übltc, tjrey
dif- 1 have removed a fart of their merchandize to
from Wlsrington s Also, ihey hi.ve their (lore open in
, G f the eity. /U either place thijr frierils can be fuji
-1 plied, and_thcir orders carefully attesried to
' y By the front I*llll, th;y have re
s''*" ceived a handfomc'affsKramt of aiticles, fuitablc
l'uefs to the apyro»«hing ftafon ; and to add to it
1 for hy other fail fhi's
,» e . Should the fichnefs prevail in tb» central part of
" ' the'city, that brarch rf their bulin-fs will be re
' . LiM - .\:d to Gcrti.a')'wn.
o It- ,f *>» Ti c-coutrr. pcfl is open and re
bury gr.hr as s'fusi
Seyt. 13. tbtf
From the Providence Grrztfte.
After reading the mercantile Information He 1
pnblilhed in last Saturday's Gazette, said
to be from Cap<j Francois, dated ifl. Ther- l ' le
-midor, addressed td Mozard, the French " V V
cor.ful in Boston, from Joseph A. Idlinger, "gai
civil ordonnateur of the northern depart- htwl
ment of the island of St. Domingo, Irtvit- & c *
ing the American merchants to fend their, y° l '
salted provilioli!' to that island, ftlierc they ' tu "
migh? depend upon a real benefit, founded }° r
on French republicairWtue, that being the tornl
order of-the day ; 1 wis ft?{ick with that P. rov
adonifhment which naturally arises from so rIOU
faring an infalt upon the public : &ut as- a rel
ter a few momtnts reCoUeCtion, concluded . er .
that every man-os common ferife must be m
convinced, from its hypocritical garb, that lo
it was home manufactured, and a thin-fpuu '*
Jacobin decoy. The Jacobins, impelled by
French artifice, are ever endeavouring tc* Kcl
J impose upon the good people of the United " lcn
States», but the time i 3 fall approaching, i? ' s .
i nay, has already arrived, to prove the falla- w
cy of placing the lead: confidence in the as
; present leaders of that nation, and in par- co "
ticular the above Idlinger, who, together .
with ViCtor Hughes, are well known to be wll
as finifhed villains as ever disgraced the
earth. No doubt "filled pro-vijions" are " "
much wanted at St. Domingo; but till we re '
learn that common honejly, or at lead " ho- '
nor among- thieves,* has become the order 0111
of the day, American merchants will be . nia .
cautious of risking more of their property , c _
, at that island. D.
' len
• • C tlflv
, The following, which we copy from a j
- Virginia paper, called the Museum, appears „
I to come from the pen of a sensible and in- 1
telligent man. His No. 11. has already
been given in the Gazette.
from the Museum. ra l
No. 111. pa
But to increase our artittWy to almost two ca
' thousand men, to add a little to our dange- an
. roufly large navy is an engine to encreafe the an
power of the executive or to bring about w(
this despotic government so mueh dreaded
by Mr. Clay.'' Why was this doCtriue not I
made use of a little while ago when the Brit ce
i(h were seizing our veflels, imprefllng our p,
a seamen and threatening us with a war ? If u
Howcomes it about that it (hould be right 1 m
to defend ourselves against the Briti(h and I m
:! under similar circumstances paflively bend Is a
our. necks to the yoke of the French ? When b,
( the Briti(h were committing depredations on I w
us, the diforganizcrs were all ready for Ip,
', war, anxious to arm and to join the French If r
in hostilities, amicable negociation was out e(
of the question, the haughty Britons must be J b
i! made to stoop. The friends to government jf,
were then friends to an amicable negociatian I „
rc and have succeeded, and the more we expe- It<
i rience the of the British treaty so 1 1]
much reprobated a little while ago, the less I
is, exceptionable does it appear. I appeal then I g
to my fellow citizens whether this friendly I ||
negotiation which has made the planter and I c
the farmer rich and independent, which I g
has evidently given the high price I _
for our prodoce and particularly to- 1 t
bacco, waving the circumstance of our peace I a
and happiness at home was not more advif?- I a
able than to be plnnged into a dedruCtive I j
war with that nation out of which we are r
n • getting our wealth. The misfortune is, I r
the French have toq. many blind followers in I i
me thiscountry devoted entirely to their interest, I {
enemies to their own country and rea<3y for 1 1
rr. any rnterprife which that nation might mark I;
out for them ; thus it is that there (hould I)
be such a party anxious to go to war against j |
~ Great Britain willing for the French to raise 1 1
armies in the heart of our country, and to 1 1
eftablilh French tribunals to try causes in j
our towns. Thus it is that while the French | j
are feiaing our veflels, plundering our prop- I,
erty, throwing our seamen Into dungeons, 1
and impelling the Spaniards to aCts of hostil
ities against, and violating express treaties, I ;
their friends are juftifying their conduit (or I
keeping a secret for the people) thus it is I
those then are opposed to taking any mea- j
, sure of defence, even while the French had
! ete armed frigates in our bay, threatening our I
t i ve commerce, nay, actually seizing our veflels,, I
and insulting our authorities, and thus it is I
that their friendsamong us,or rather enemies I
'• to our government, were opposed to repair I
at " the few fortifications we have, and choose I
j that they (hould rot rather than be made ca- I
pable of affording defence.. The policy of I
our government at present is that which eve- I
:he ry prudent man would pursue in his individ- I
of ual capacity were he injured by his neigh- 1
an ' a bour or former friend. To prepare for I
loclc the worst but endeavour t» fettle the dif- I
j pute amicably by agreement, negociation, I
i; n g and arbitration, and not delay taking .mea- j
fures of defence until surrounded by hods of I
Jeut enemies. This appears to me to be agree- I
'■ able to common sense and common pru- I
dence ; yet strange a 6 it may seem, there are
1 ' characters among us, utterly opposed to de
-5 fence when to keep their friends the French
from invading our country. But we are de
ceived, and to ftifle our indignation againlt
the conduCt of the French, we are told that
f rom our executive is aiming at absolute monar
chy 5 two subjeCts without the most distant
:»(ks appearance of connection.
Reader, if our government is a bad one or
wants amendments, let us peacably and or
-5 derly like good eitizens alter or amend it
—■■=■ without revolutions and bloodshed, but un
less you fe* this ncceflky of alteration, stand
by it as ore that will afford -complete pro
tection. It cannot become a monarchy, no
body watits it ; at all events support it until
_ e to we get quiet with the French and Span
s- lards, for if we aredivided amongst ourselves
and against our own government we must fall,
t re- Fmend to Government,
table
toit No. IV.
rt n! v/e are told by Mr. Clay, that "the
e re " president tb involve us in a war with
dre _ Fiance ;" again he fays, "It may appear
l " strange that there (hould be men in this*
btf country, and even in our councils, in favor
.f war; yet nothing is mc.rs clear than !
hat there art* such. Ihe f exiits, l<c. 1
Ic then dates his rcafons tlrat some like <
ifhing in troubled waters fon;e " hate ;
he French-;" some " lo J the British;"
< war-taxes four the minds of, the people
igaiaft a free government ;" " the ivttr
\atuis want to fpeculale or. thifter folaxrs.
See. &c. ' How lpng, my coulitrymen, will
jrou be deceived by such fclfe, rnfl:(maiatory
[tuff as this ? What grounds has Mr. Clay
For detailing to you such inflammatory in
formation as this I Reader, I trust I (hall
prove to you that ourprefident has most se
riously cherished every effectual Hep towards
a reconciliation with Trance —and (hall tur
ther p'ace the conduct of our -joxr-huivls
in" such a view that you will be at no loss
to fay who are the real war-ha-wh ; who
Willi to fifli in troubled waters, and who ivifh
to J peculate in f/jldiers certificates. Our pre
sident, John Adams, from the commence
ment of the late revolution to this moment,
has conduced himfelf, in all the stations in
.which he lias been placed, in such* manner
36 has justly entitled him to the greuteft
confidence of his fellow citizens. I l>at
well-timed honed republican charadter
which he had acquired in the commence
ment of the American revolution, and
which puffed on with him through our
dreadful conflict, has never been assailed but
by envy, misrepresentation, a:<d the enven
omed tongue of detraction ; ahd strange it
may seem", his hods of enemies are compel
led to applaud his unbounded candor and
integrity, and to admit his pre-eminent ta
lents and judgment.—lf I were to
ask you whatqualifications a president (hould
have, would you require more of him than
Mr. Adams possesses ? Would you expeCt
greater honesty, njore candor, or greater
talents ?
I will not only call the president's gene
ral character in view, but (hall apply his
particular condijCt to prove, that his great
care has been to preserve our independence,
and to cultivate peace.with all the wofld,
and particularly with the French. When
we firft htard that our veflels, without num
ber, were captured by the French.; that
bur property could not escape capture and
j certain condemnation ; that the ministers oi
France in this country were repeatedly in-
I fulting our government, enflaming the
I minds of our citizens against our own ad
I ministration, and finally driving our arabaf
fador from Paris, and commanding us tc
I break our treaty with Great Britain ; wha
I were your feelings and what those oi ou
' president ? Resentment in the bread o
I freemen was when thus command
I ed by the French to violate our faith, am
: Iby them robbed of our property ; ou
■ j friendfhip for them abated, and every he
1 I nest and candid republican determined no
■ I to be en/laved by France or any other ns
' I tion.
s I Peace, if to be without to
1 I great facrifices, was preferred by all; thv
{ I it was natural to try by uegociation to at
i I commodate all differences and to projjde ;
i I gainst the worst, if negociation should fa
e I —Jf the French (hould continue to comm
- I their depredations on our commerce, to tui
e I a deaf ear to all propositions and drive oi
I ambassadors again from France, to be pr
e I pared to defend our liberties and face our
c I nemies like freemen. These were the nat
>, ral reflections of etery thinking republica
n What was the President's language in 1:
U I speech to both houses of Congrefi at tt
» r J laftleflicn ? I beg of you again to read ii
k I in it you will find a candid detail of the co
•d 1 duCt of the French ; information that 1
ft I (hould try negociation upon honourat
fe I terms, and (hewed Congress the neceflity
:o I taking some steps for felf-defence. T
in information given by the President, deta
:h I ing a series of conduit by the Freneh no
P* I on, unparalleled, Is not contradicted by an
s, but his candid and serious disposition to r
il- I gociate with France, is denied by Mr, Clf
and all faCtious diforganizers.
or I They universally idmit his candor and tru
Is lexcepyn this instance and in this bufm
a- I our virtuous democrat Mr. Giles and ull 1
id 1 followers fay they have no confidence in t
ur I President, and this too within the walls
Is, 1 Congress and in the hearing of the wh
is I world. —Readers, I might here obf-r
ies I that there is no better evidence, that Jo
lir I Adams is fully entitled to our confiden
>fe I than to hear it denied by the faCtions op]
:a- I sets of government and by none else. I
of I in this particular instance we find him ft
re- I dfly pursuing the great objeCt of our ho
id- I peace aud liarmony with the French nati
;h- J by attempts at fair negociation, and a rep
for I can firmnefs in (hewing the world that
lif- I can defend ourselves when assailed.
>n, I View the condnCt Swiss
?a " I hoftilely threatened by the French and
I there found,an honed independent firmi
ee " I silencing the demands of the invincible
ru " I public ; an honest independence with
ire firm resolution to proteCt it, then produ
the 'effed wilhed for, and is there a do
but that it would do the fame in Amer
c " But the frigid candid and independent
n I litics of the swiss does not suit Mr. Cla
,at he would have lent Mr. Pinckney bacl
ar " Paris, to be ordered out again with ari
,nt tition of insults, and not one fortrficatio
America able to repel the attack of fch
or boys or to prevent a French privateer f
ascending your rivers to the highest p
' of navigation, and plundering what pro
ln " tythey pleased ; and yet we are told
"d this is a wrong time to repair our fofts,
ro " proper to build (nay finifh) a few frigate
n P proteCt our trade", for fear of irritating
n '' French—lrritating the French f good G
an " and have we come to ihis at last ? after
ves quifhing the powerful Britofis„ and ha
waded through seas of blood and diff
ties and having arrived at independer
now dare not mount a cannon, or furni
(hid for fear of irritating the French.
;he this be the policy of my countrymen, we
ith better lay aside our little efforts and cdll it
ear French Directory at once to govern u
his* we are not capable of governing ourfe
vor & o to war with Great Britain; and then
Mr. Clay Tie fattsfcuh Tl:~f it has. ever
been the object of a privf yto gn to w?r a
painft Great Britain ftsdl >,be the fubjeCl of
another n'Jßib-f.
JVIENfI TO GOVERNMENT.
ALBANY, September 17. '
cpuMVxtcj r/tf v.
The Nyy. Time Piece, *f the 6th inflant,
fays—" iVcodlufy Langdon, (a republican)
of Portsmouth, N. H. is clefted a Represen
tative in Congress, he having. 387 votes ;
E. S. Livermore 38, Sprague 2,1."
The author of the foregoing psrrgrsrph
labours under a small irsiftake—ln N. Hamp
fhircy four or five thousand votes are ufua'ly
given in for a member of Congress. Wood
bury Larigdoh, the republican, will notprob
ably receive more- than ant tb&ufand votes
HI the whole ftafe : he is an old pnciu'Me ;
-nd, neitwithftanding every exertion,of the
: difaffedte.d, has.jiot been all!? hitherto to
make any figure in comp -tition with his fc
•deral antagonists. It is well known thnt the
towns of Portsmouth and- Rye concentre
nearly all the modern democracy which pie
vails'in the ftatc of Ncw-Hampfhire—the
great body of the people of that ilate are
decidedly and firmly attached to the
foverument of our country/ and its admini
ration—they support with their fuffragea
oWne but men whole principles and conduit,
refk-ft honor upon the American character
.-itnefs their present delegation in Con
gress, (one ortly excepted, who has apofta
. tized finee his appointment)—witnefs the
repeated re-election of their often applauded
and highly meritorious chief magistrate, go
vernor Gilman, Among the whole number
I of the members of their state legislature, not
\ more than 6 or 8 have been found belonp
'to the class of " exclujlve patriots." T ere
| mull have been a great change indeed, if
■ I Woodlyy Lang'Un, the republican, can oi>-.
i | tain a feat in the na.ional councils, by the
fuffr-iges of the people qt New-Kampfhire ;
, the 387 votes he has received, were all given
. ! him in the town of Pjftfir.outt (the focus
1 of Jacobinism in that quarter), where he
-1 lives-r-and it is far fronj , being improbable
t i that lie will not obtain a greater number
I than 387 more votes in the wncjle ftaite.—
f Woodbury Langdon is such a fort of a repub
lican as his brother, John Langdon, ope of
e i the " virtuous minority" of the Senate, who,
- I at the time of his appointment, was a sup
- ported of the government, and a foe to Ja- ,
o cohinifm—his change of creed will pl;,- e
it "him, at the.close of his official term, in t/.v
ir Jhade of retired life, where he can more fully
>f enjoy the consolations of modern repuUieaufnt,
1- and more frequently witness the " piitri
d otic" conduit of his Gallo-American brethren
ir of Portsmouth and Rye. *
>t | AUGUSTA, September 7.
a- '
; LAW INTELLIGENCE.
>0 If Mr. M'Millan will give the following cu- 4
us rious trial a place in his paper, it will
c- much oblige a friend and a fubferibor.
a- JUSTICES COURT, Term.
lil vs . Negro killing, ~
lit; His honor the justice took his feat,j»ftcr
rtt having impannelled and sworn the jury,
ur The plaintiff dated, that the defendant
"e- did, with the force of arms, unlawfully en
e- ter his plantation, and did then and there
u- kill, by (hooting with a gun loaded with
in. powder and lead, one negro man of,the vas
tus lue of 451. contrary to the laws of God asdt ■
f"s his country.
t• I The defendant admitted killing the ne
>n- groe, but endeavoured tojuftify his conduA
1 16 , by faying the negro was iufoleiit, &c.
His honor the justice then rose and gave
the jury a flowery and labored charge, and
he defircd them to withdraw and do justice to
ul- the parties—the jury withdrew, and in a.
>ti- £j; W minutes brought in their verdict w'dfu!
>y; murder. His honor told them they were
I wrong, and that they must go out again j
ay, j they withdrew, and soon brought in their
verdi£t negro, Jlauglter ; the jullice, in a
Jth niightv rage, told them to go out again,
■ ;1 " s that they were {till Wrong, that his object
his was'moni-y ; they again withdrew, and bro't
the in damages -for plaintiff, 45L payable in
s plantation tools and cost <>t suit ; thq ds
'°k fendant complied by giving his note for ths
ve » debt,and paying up the foft, whichJhis honor
)hn ■ rece iv(;d, treated to half a pint, and adjourn
lce > cd.
P°" Thus the jyftice-extended his jurifdiftion
® ut to 451. from 71. and made his a court of
;ea " criminal jurifdiftion.
>1>«» | .
ion. WILKESBARRE, Sept. 12.
ub- \y e .liave beep favoured with the Bath Ga
we zettedowjito the 31ft of August, from
which we extraft the following—
hen ByiTH, Aug. 31.
vve A Gentleman of the fir ft who
ness arrived on the 30t(i ult. from Niagara,
re- has favoured us with the following inter
a a efting intelligence,
iced That great pari of the American gar
mbt rifon at Niagara-had failed for petro:; ,to
•ica? reinforce the ganifonsin the'No th We.itern
po- territory, where serious apprehensions had
!y heen entertained of their being attacked by
kto the Western Indians, influenced by the
epe- Spaniards and French.
nin Capt. Guion with two companies, .who
1001- hud been sent dowa the MiUiffippi tp occupy
"10m the polls to b$ up by the Spam
ioiftt ard3 by treaty, inftcad of being"'allowed to
iper- perform that service, was, when th? aetSdunt
that came away, in a fo:t of coufiaement by the
, ito- Spaniards, neither being allowed to proceed
es to or return —another detachment had. met ,
r the with the fame fate.
Jod! The garrison of Niagara expects an imrae
van- diate reinforcement from Weft-Point,
ving The Britilh are not without apprehemfiop
ictil- of an attempt on Canada by the French and
;ice ; "Spaniards, but expett a large body of troops
ifh a from England. They had receited oreler<
If in Upper Canada,, tp build immediately
shad three twenty-gun ships on Lake Ontario.
II the The BritiPu troops in upper Canada, con,
;s,4es lift of a new regiment f>f Volunteers and the
Ives, Queen's Rangers, which are in good or
j will der.FAYETTEV.ILI.Ii, <}■
AgreeaWy to a notice cf his excellency
the governor, the council of date co::*-ned
rt the city of Raleigh,v on Tucfday the
"29th . A'.jg'.rfl: last ; Whsjl was nominated
aiid appointed the h»n. major-general Tho
rn ■« irown, president, and Robert Willi
ams, jnn. fecr^tary.
We learn that the cou>f 11 proceeded im*
mediately on.the message of his excellency,
or that part thereof relative- to certain com
munications from the secretary of the 'U
nited States, requiring the executive to
make ufe'of every measure to apprehend
ctr!.Hn persons within the limits of this
state; wbo were arming ai'.d equipping
themselves contrary to the goocj order and
peace of society,. and the lavvs of the U
nited States. The council thought proper
to recommend to his excellency to issue a
proclamation, commanding all persons im
mediately to desist from such unlawful pro
ceedings, under tbe severe penalties pre
ferred by law ; likewise commanding all
officers, both civil and military, to appre
hertji and bring to justice such offenders
without delay.
The other part of the message from his
excellency, was a plan of apportionment
to each county within this state, of the
quota required detachment, agreea
bly to aYi aft of congress passed for that
p-:rpofc on the 24th of June last.
LANSINGBURGH, September 12.
The merchants, traders' and other -gen
tlemen of Lanfingburgh, have lately held
a meeting on the fubjeft of improving our
navigation ,• and we are happy to learn, that
they were ur.animoufly in favour of the un
dertaking. And in order to determine its
feafibilitf, and to obtain a probable eltimate
of the expense, they appointed a commit
tee to engage 3b able engineer, to explore
riie l iver, to confer with him, and to ob
tain his opinion and estimates on the fub
jeft. The result to be laid before a subse
quent meeting.
We arc informed the committee have
written' to the ingenious Mr. Prefcot, of
Northampton, to come up on this business,
and that he is soon expefted. As Mr. P.
has for several years ftudicd hydraulics as a
fciencc, and matured his theory by aftual
prafticf, as chief engineer in the important
works carrying on in the"Connefticut river,
and which in several parts are completed,
and answer the most sanguine expeftations,
mo doubt can be entertained of his exteufive
knowledge on this fubjeft, and that the
committee have afted judiciously in makiiig
application to him.
The Latin school, in the Lanfingburgh
academy, was opened on Monday fe'nnight.
The preceptorfhip of this academy ig con
fided to Mr. Chauncey Lee, a gentleman
whose literary talents, abilities as a teacher,
and moral charafter, eminently qualify him
to preside over this rising seminary.
The English schools of the academy are
under the 1 care of two excellent teachers,
MeflVs Reed and Harrifon. 0
" From the increase of" Lanfingburgh
and the neighbouring towns, and the zeal
of the trtiftees," the regents of the univer
sity, iu their report to the legislature, flat
ter themselves in the rapid increase and',
rfing eminence of " Lanfingburgh Aca
demy."
The academy-hall is a building confiding
of 4 large rooms, and completely finifhed.
The plenfant situation of this town, its
heqlthinefs, and the cheapness of boarding
and tuitiiMi in addition to the other reconi
mend'atrtms, cannot fail of having their due
influence with parents, 'U 'different parts of
the state, to induce them to fend their chil
dren for education to this feminaryv
NEW-HAVEN, September 20.
On Wedoefday thd 13th inft. the public
Commencement Was celebrated in this city.
At 9 o'clock, A. m. the .proceflion moved
from the college to the brick meeting-house.
The solemnities of the day Were introduced
by prayer, to which succeeded tne following
exercises: '
1. Music.
2. A Latin oration on the importance of
comparing and classing our ideas ; by Jamcp
Murdoch, i
3. A Jifpute on the question—Ought
divorces in any cafe to be granted ? by Ira
Hart, Seth Staples, and John Nilet. »
4* A poetical dialogue on suicide ; by
William Benedift, Thomas Day, and Bethel
Judd.
4. A humorous oration on theoretical
philosophy ; by Timothy Field.
6. An oration on the causes which have
retarded the progress of. the Chinese in the
liberal arts and sciences ; by George Grif
fin.
7. A dialogue on'the manners and insti
tutions of the early inhabitants of >Jew-
England ; by Israel Brainerd, Homer Hiue,
Jirah Ifham, and Asa Lyman.
8. A poem on the evidences of the being
and providence of God, difcemible in the
creation, in oppofitioff f to the fentimehts of
Mr. Volney ; by Warren Dutton.
9. Music.
AFTEicIOON.
I. Music. \
I'on on the consequences ot a
American republic ; by Mr.
on on the political advantages
ihftitutious ; by Mr. Tutor
given.
ing prayer.
of bachelor of arts was con-
Andrews, Charles Goodrich,
er, George Griffin, Henry
Hart, Lyman Beecher, Ho
illiam Benedift, Jirah liham,
s, Ezra Ives, Ezra Bradley,
Israel Brainerd, Asa Lyman,
ckway,* Sy&efter Maxwellj
Berinet Bronfon, James Murdock, R-ufus
Bufttiel, John Niles, EliOra Chapman, Wil
.liam Page, lfabel Cbik, Hovatin Scj*inour,
• »yl«cft«r Djina, Tlcotfcre Still, Thcsai
l)ay, Richard Smith, Warren Dutton, Seth
Suplefi, '1 imotliy Field, Theodore Strong,'
William L. Foot, Ephraira T. Woodruff,
Samuel A. Foot.
The degree of mafier of arts wa3 confer
red on,
John P. Aufl.ii), CWk Brotvn, Jehu
Clark, John Elliot, Elijah Gridley, Dan.
Huiitingtop, Zachariah Lewis, I'faac Lew
is, Samuel Mather, Benjamin D. Perkins,
Oliver L. Phelps, 'John Smith, Daniel Story,
graduates of Dar. Col.
The honorary degree of mailer of arts,
was conferred on Benjamin Woolfey Ro
gers, of the city of New-York, and on the
honorable Reman Swift, one of the'fel
lows of the college.
.The degree of do£tor of laws was confer
red dn the honorable Jonathan Trumbull,
lieu'tenant-governor of this Hate.
The degree of potior of divinity was con
ferred on the Rev. David Ofgood, minister
of.the Gospel in Medfprd, Massachusetts.
The degree of doftor of divinity was
conferred on the Rev. Abraham Jarvis, bi
shop elcft of the Episcopal church of Con
nefticut.
The degree of doftor of divinity was con
ferred on the Rer. Richard Watson, lord
bishop of LandafF.
On the evening preceding Comraenc<-
meut, an elegant oration, on " the moral
arid /cientific improvements of the present
age,'* war. delivered in the brick meeting
house, before the Phi Beta Kappa society,
and a very crowded and brilliant auditory,"
by Mr. Charles Chauncey, jnn,
ALBANY, September iji
0" Wodnefday last, the anniverl'ary com
mencement of Williams college, was celebra
ted in the following manner :—At half pa ft '
ten the procefiion confiding of the President
escorted by the Sheriff of the county, bear
ing a white ftaff, in the character of Bedel- ;
lus, the Vice President, members of the cor- j
poration, candidates for degrets, undcr-gra
duates of the college, members of the aca
demy, gentlemen of the clergy and other li
terary charafters, belonging to the vicinity
moved from Williams Hall, to the old cha
pel. Tbe exhibition was introduced by an
excellent well adapted prayer by the Pre
sident.
Excrcifesof the Forenoon.
Sacred mnfic.—A latin oration on the
" Progress of Science," by Asa Burbank
—A disputation on the question " would it
be good policy in the United States to build
a navy ?" by Mcffrs. Bufhnal andMcachum.
An Engli/h Oration by Mr. Gould—A dis
putation on the question," are populous ci
ties advantageous to a nation i" by Messrs*
Judfon and Robifon. An English Oration
" on Man." by Mr. Mills.
Exercises of the afternoon.
Sacred music. An Oration in French on
" Towner. An English
Oration on " prejudice," by Mr. Skinner.
A disputation on the question, u Ought a
representative to aft his own judgment inde
pendent of his constituents ?" by Messrs.
Burbank and Robinson. A dialogue on;
the " modeoFeducation,"by MelTrs. Gould,'
Hunt, Skinner and Towner.
The degree of Bachelor of Arts was then
conferred 011 Asa Burbank, Jedediah Bufh
taal, Vinfou Gould, Ephraim A. Judfon,
Israel Meachum, Elijah H. Mills, David
Robinson, Jonathan E. Robinson, Thomas
Skinner and Horner Towner. The hono
-1 rary degree of mailer of arts, was likewise
| conferred on Rev. Avery, Rev. Da
j niel O. Gil&t, A. M. Dart, et Naftov.
Rev. Preserved Smith, A. M. Prov. Like
wise Barnabas Bidwell, Esq. A. M. Yale
was admitted ad eundem. A pleafmg con
cert followed and the exercises were conclu
ded by prayer from the Vice President.
Williamftown, September 8, 1797.
15y this clay's Mail.
NEW-YORK,
The Britifli foi-difant letrtr" cf matque
sloop VICTORY, of Cape Nichofir "Mole,
mounting ten 6 pounders, moll; unfortunate
ly overset on Thursday going out at the
I Hook, by trying to keep up with a New-
England built vessel, which was in compa
ny. The poor sloop spilt her gurvs and crew
1 but loft no one. She has finee been towed
1 to the (hip yards. Argus ivit.
BOSTON, September 20.
THE LAUNCH.
It will be high water this day, at eighteen
rtiinutes after 11, at which time the Conjl't
■ tution frigate quit the cradle of her birth ;
and repair to the element of which (he is
! calculated to be the pride and boast.
The/preparations making to accommodate
citizens with a fight of the scene, are nume
rous } and wie hope wifely planned and
i strongly fqpported-:—As the want of atten
tion in this particular, may be fatal to many
limbs, if not lives.
On Saturday we (hall give a dd|jfcption
of the launch, for the fatisfaftion oflhofe
who cannot have the pleasure of feeing it.
I —■ x
A correspondent, who lately took a criti
cal view of our new frigate, was struck (he
fays) with the analogy between that ship and
her name, viz. THE CONSTITUTION.
First, her timbers are of our own growth,
found and excellent, and put together judi
ciously and faithfully ; there i 3 no saw-dust
and putty crammed in to fill up flaws and
cracks, and hide joints ; but all is
firm, solid, and connefted like the oak tree
with its branches. Secondly, her figure,
I or general outline, is like the Constitution
beautiful ; an'd (he carries at her head.the
j figure of a Hercules, with his club and lion's
j ikin, and every body knows that by the-alle
i gory ps Hercules is meant heroic virtue.—
• 3dly. The most important part of her, as it
; the fafety of her people, and which
i is inimerfed in a treacherous element, is cov
ered with copper to secure her against those
ftnall but delbuciive vermin, who like #ur
, Jacobifis, tvtyi out ojfight, ..fecretly, lilently
- 1-. .. ■
1 and inftduvHifly, in boreing holes to let in the
destroying-element and link the ftip. 4th!?",
She, like our Canftitiition, is built for tlx
fafety of thep'.ofh and their property ; and car
ries the eufigns of our national honour, with ]
the meatis of defending it.—sthly. Like
the Conftitufiorr, (he will be conducted by
citizens of different ranks aad power, as to
command and order, b it all conspiring to
form a harmonious whole. Jthly. She will
be commanded by officer-;, whom we can
truil apd will support. 7thly. She will
launch forth into that *e!e:nent which con
nects the world together, as the Conftftution
did into the political one, anvM the Ihouts
arid acclamations of the peoplPvvhofc voice
created her. That Heaven may prQ
ferve bath (jie original and the is tbt
hearty prayer ol all—save 'Jacobins and
•worms.
The " Exchifiv: Patriots," fays a Con
necticut paper, are offering their Goliahs in
Vermont, for Governor, but there is a (trong
hope that the humble and righteous Davids
of our Israel, will put on the (hield of una
nimity and federalifro, and gi*e the finifhing
touch to expiring democracy."
In the Chroniele of Monday, it is fneer
ingly said, that " Mr. Adams' negotiations
have terminated in a marriage treaty with an
English lady." This is an imposition on
the public, who ought to be informed, with
out derogating from the merits of the ladies
of England, that Mrs. A. is an.American
Lady ; that her father is a citizen of Mary
land, and brother to his Excellency Thomas
Johnson, Esq. late Governor of that state.
All who know Mrs. A. speak of her as a la
dy of diftinguilhe4 worth—and Severy ne
gotiation Mr. A. makes in Europe, term:-,
nates as happy for his country, as this will
for him, wc (hall havt additional cause to
pniife the wifdoni of that illuflrious charac
ter, who felttted him 'from his fellow citi
zens as one of thereprfertfativesof the Unit
ed States, in the Eafterii hemisphere.
PORTSMOUTH, (N. H.) Sept. 16.
On Wednesday last arrived in this town,
from Philadelphia, his Excellency X)on Car
los Martinez de Yrujo, knigljt of th« royal
and diftinguifhrd order of Charles 111. his
Catholic Majesty's Minister Plenipotentiary
and Envoy Extraordinary to the United
States; &c. &c. accompanied by his Ex
cellency Don Juan Stoug'nton, his v Catholic
Majesty's consul at Bolton.
Capt. Timothy Newman, of Newbury
port, is appointed co?hmander of the
cent frigate, built ih this port, for the Dey
of Algiers. She is completely rigged and
equipped (all but her 1 guns) and ready to
•foil, pilcataqua river never btioyed so
handsome a frigate, previous to this ! !
■j NEWBURYPORT, Sept. 19.
Copy of k letter from Dr. Rush, to a Cor
respondent in this town, dated Philadelphia,
Sept. 11.
DEAR SIR,
The dileafe which now prevails in our ci
ty, was generated among us. Its principal
source was from the hold of the (hip from
Marseilles, in which there was a quantity 6f
putrid vegetablss. Our gutters, and the
ponds of stagnating water in ihc neighbour
hood of thi city have created some cases of
u"t. At present it prevails chiefly in thp
Xouth part of the city. Considering. thaft
nearly one half of our citizens have fled, the
mortality though apparently less, is proba
bly as great as it was at this time of the
year in 1793. From 20 to 30 die daily.
Every poflible exertion is making by our go
vernment, our board of health, and our Phy
sicians, to (top the pmgrefs of the' disease.
When and where it will end, is known only
to that Being who controuhs and governs all
the physical, as well as moral evil of our
world.
BALTIMORE, September 21.
Died, yesterday, after a lingering illness,
which (he sustained with christian fortitude,
in tlje 47th year of her age, Mrs. Salmon,
the amiable consort of George Salmon, Efq:
of this city.
Died, ob Tuesday last, at Annapolis,
after a (hort illness, in the 35th'year of
J»ij age, Mr. Samuel Clayland, a ref
pctisble merchant of tfts city.
—, ><fterday, after an illness of ten days,
at the hou£e of his father at the Point, Mr.
William Biay?. in the ,zoth year of his age :
A youth who prorcifed fair to be an orna
ment and great use t!?fociety.
—, yesterday morning-, after a fliort ill
ness, in the 16th year of his age, Mr. John
Herman Williams, brother to Mr. Charles
Williams, merchant of this city : He was an
amiable youth, and promised fair to be an
ornament to society.
WORCESTER, (Mass,) Sept. 20.
BIBLE.
* # * FOUR different sizes of the Bible
have now pafifed through the prefles of the
Proprietor of this paper, viz.—Folio, witn'
fifty Copperplate representations of Scrip
ture Hiltory— Royal Quarto, with and
without Concordance —Large Demi Oftavo
with a'nd without Apocrypha—and, Demi
i2mo. or the common small Bible j—This
last is jtift issued from the ptefs, the types
for which was procured at a very great ex
! penes', are exceedingly well executed, and
! employed a number of workmen four years
to complete them. They are now all ftand
i ing, and are to be so kept, ready at all times
; for the Pr»»fs, in the fame manner as they
j are as the royal Printing Offices in London
and Edinburgh, and the Utiiverfity printing
honfes at Oxford and Cambridge, in Eu
gland: A constant supply (of coarse and
fine copies,) bound or in (hqets, and in any
quantity, will be kept for falc by the Edi
tor, at the Worcester bookstore. As the
execution of the plan on which this small
Bible is printed, in order to make the price
proportionably low to those imported from
i Scotland and England, has been attended
' with a very heavy expense »o the undertaker,
1 and employed a larger capital than any work
issued from as American press, he hopes
suitable encouragement will He given to the
qndertaking., ISAIAH THOMAS.
k
/ ALEXANDRIA, Sept. tg.
/ : • • - •JK council, iE.Pi'. r«, i;y7.
/ v "VVhefJti3'it appears to the council, th*ta coma- v
/ gious fcv6r exilia in the cities of WiiLidetphia, Bal
timore and Ncrfdlfc, and that p-eat danger is to be
apprehended to the citizens-os Alexandria, froiji
the ihtrodu6lion of die by persons copi
ng from those places') cither by }and or wstcf,aruJ
ami it alfu being rcprdl-nsCti that iome peilo-.is iti .
the river, qcrf this town, arc' ini'.-dcJ Yel
'o\v and are detaiucdhy rife lupeiintendaut *
of quarantine for tfeje -enmmonwenth of Virginia i
111 order, therefore, to prevent the com
munication of jnl'ldHou** disorders to this place,
and alio to make the neceiTary provifiori ior fuel.
p6Xfoi;»as limy be alFc&ed,
It is ordcted By the council, that all torn
ing to rhis place, froqi any port v.bcr* the citizens
jjfre ime'iird v/rth, the y.liow f ver, be obliged to
■perforin such quarantine as the luj.enentendaot.
may tljink nc.ceharv. 1
It is'alfo ordered a v IFd %e imfa-diately
procured at 1112 17pence ot their.uyor and common-" .
alfy, to be itationad near Jo#iuf»» Pliiifc with fivit- 1
al>ie dccdmmoilarifls sfot the reception 01 tuch per-
fool a3 mny be in ieCted> With the, yellow frver, and I
that nurfei a:id#tKirr'neccfla.ry provisions be obtain- I
ed by a committee Kerealtcr to be appointed for the c
purpose. r
And, in order to accommodate such performs a 6 r
miy be performing quarantine, and for the recep
tion ot Inch good# a* it may .be found lKCiTarr to
.land for their prefervatir.il, it is a
temporary Ihed be erected at the ea£l enTof ihe j J
fort on Jones's Point, done ip the cheap jit manner, ] 1:
with polls put in the ground, and covered with ' f
plank ; and that a fuperintendant lour men be £
employed to guard th« pcninJula between the town
and po*f, and they permit no petfori - o past
without leave in wiiting either from .he commit- *
tc ' or Health officer 1
It isalfo direded, that til!puMic or private car d
bringing periods, from arv place iivfocted ,
With the VcLlow Fever, fllalt, before they unload
o;vdifcharge arv person so brought, proceed to the
houf ,ai tb« heSith officer, who is required t-j ex- j
amine a»! fucT» perTohs, and in lllYafcs -where b-a
has reafort to lufpeel that any person is infe&cd
withthe Yeftow fever, he fliaii have them remo
ved to the public hospital provided for their rweep- C
thin, and ui cases perrons intend to rq J
ihain in tcwn.more than toeen hours, they Ovall j
he obliged to give bond and l'ecuuty, to perform
fu:h qu traiume out of town, as the health officer
may think ncceiWy ; and, on failur« to g;ve l'ych v
fuck fecwiity «as may be required, to perform such ?
quarantine at Jones'* Point, and,.wfiere any per- }
Con lYom'infedted place*, may be palfing through j
town in perfect health, they may be permitted to
do so, provided they leave town in M hours after c
their arrival.
it is also ordered, that the pacify plying I
between this town, George 'lVvvn and me Federal J
City 1 , be obliged to call upon the health officer, be- j
fore they be permitted to land any person brought
to town in their boati, and that the health ofticer
be required'to examine all such persons, and make
such order relpe&ing them as he may deem ne
cefl'ary. (
Aaron Hewes, George Slacum and Samuel Craig, j
are appointed a committee to carry the foregoing ,
order into cfFeA ; and Elilha C. Dick, is appoint
«d health officer, in order to perform the duties '
joined upon that office.- v v
The wardens, tavern-keepers, and generally all r
the cltizensxf the' town, ar« called updn to use
great vigilance in discovering persons coming to
this town, from places infe£lcd with the Yellovv
Fever, and to give the neceflary information to the j
health officer, who is requeued to use every means j ]
hi his power to prevent the introduction of the in- J
feilion into this place.
Done in Council,
Attest,
Wm. SUMMERS, C. C. 1
Xijc ©ajctte,
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, September *<. 1
j |, i, - I ■ . J
Total of burials for 24 hours, ending yefier'
day at noon.
' Grown Persons. Children-
Christ Church o „ s 2
St. Peter's x 0
Thirrf Prefbyterfan r O
Sf. Mary's Church I o
Fricndi' • to
Free Quikers* O I
Swedes ,1 '4
Fislil o , ' I
City Kofpital* X 7 o
/ _ Total 11 6
* Trt Ji. rn the city a»i fvburbs*
The rfpfirt, that General Pinckney was
invited to return to Paris, had, we be'ieve,
no other fu'indatiuu than the wifii of forne ■
modest Jacobin. Every attempt is made hy
our zxcluji-vtpatriots, or, as the Boiloivpoet
(tiles them,! coticlufive hiaves, to avert from ,
their darling frog eaMrs the just indignation
of every true American ; but, if the peace
ful overtures of our executive (hould be
treated with negleft, we hope and trust,
there is yet enough of pristine American spi
rit to buoy our finking nationality.
( Walpole paper.)
gazette marine list.
Port of Philadelphia.
All IVSD. BAYS.
Ship Jane, M'Pherfcn, St. Kitts
Darque Guftavus Adolphus, Ramage, Mar
. feilles 53
The French privateer that boarded capt.
Paul of the brig Two Sifters, from Curracoa
' now at the fort, and robbed him of his yaul,
is not a schooner as stated in our paper of
Tliurfday last, but the Bernludianbuilt fioop
that lately got new aiaft at New Castle'
The captain is an Italina, named Calolhe.
By Captain Mitchell of the New-Castle
packet boat, we learu that a pilot, who ar
rived at Newcastle on Friday last, just be
fore he tailed brought an account that there
were three privateers on the coast, a brig, a
schooner, and the Bernuidian built/loop.—
They have taken two veflfU inward bound,
with pilots on bo&rd. Gapt. Mitchell was
informed of the names of the captured ves
sels*! but has forgotten themu
New-York, September 23.
AKRIFttt. '• Days ■
Ship Dispatch, Carpenter, Li erpool 58
Brig Olive, —— , Jamaica 3c
Ceres, Gathvy, Guadaloupe 38
Schr.' Elizabeth, Williams, Edenton,
; (N. c.) 5 •
Betsey, Walhington,
(N, C.) 20
Frederick, , Jamaica 43
Baltimore, September 1-9-
An rived yefl'iday, brig Meyneii, Bol
mau, 53 days from J}t. Übes.
Ship Apoilp,
Left there, brig Paragon, £,.
Aty. vf Baltimore, jaft- arrived. 1
Sbjp Junker, 13 wee ks from
Bremen.
Br:g Siifan and Polly, Gorfuch, 22 days
from Ctirracoa.
. Schooner Adonis, Rutter, 16 days from
Port-do-Paix. Left there, brig Harriot, of
'Baltimore, a'pr'ze fdrooner Eliza, of do.
condemned. Captain Riltter informs
had" t>c"en recalled, and failed for
I'ranee, before ho left Port-de-Paix.
Baltimore,, September 21.
Fort M'Henry, Sept. 21.—Arrived—
Brig Chance, Turner, 32 days from Cape
Francois-—left a fehooner from Baltimore,
name nr.t recollected.
, Schooner Governor Clinton, Patter, (of
Philadelphia) 24 days from St. Thomas—•
left tljp.re Ihip Maryland, of Baltimore ;
Ann and Mgry, of Philadelphia ; atid Su
perb, of do. Commerce, of do, and a number
of other American velfels whose names are '
ngt reccllefted. /
The frtiotving lift of American vessels was
left at St. Domingo on the Bth ult.
Schooner Charming Betsy, Crawford, ef
Baltimore, ta fail l'mmedi.-tcly for JacmeP;
brig Fair American, Philips, of do. to fail
fordo, fehooner Andrew, of Philadelphia,
for d[o. br'g Mary, Shell, for New-York ;
a small pilot ho.t schooner, Baily, from
Norfolk, to be fold for a privateer ; brig
Venus, of Ken'nebeck, brought in and con
demned ; schooner Elcy, of do. brought in
and condemned. *
CITY HOSPITALTREPORT,
From to 25th Sept. in themorning.
Admitted, fioce last report,
Canan Massy, 377, South Front street.
Peter Polifton, Param's alley, So. Front ft.
Elizabeth Dukey, Robiufon, esq. corner
Mead alley and Front street.
Catharine Gallagher, 142, South Water lit.
Mary Nen!, Mead alley.
Michael M'Faden, Jthu Murphy's.
Peggy 175, South Front ilreet.
Discharged since last Report.
Sarah admitted joth inft.
Polly M'Cormif, 17th
Mary Reynolds, 17th
Mary Ann Myers, 18th
Died since last report,
when admitted, j how long sick prc?i
---j oustoadmittanee.
Cuff Jordan, 7th inft. 4 days.
Pat. Fleming, 20th. 3 days.
Rachael Tennet 22d. 6 days.
Nelly Duncan, 24 2 days.
Ann M'Laughlin, 24 2 days.
Thos. Roffeter, 24
hours 23 4 days.
Elizabeth , 19
hours 23 3 days.
Remaining last Report 61
Admitted since, 7
"68
Discharged 4
Died 7 11
Remain inHofpital, j
Six of whom are dangerous.
Inferred in City Hospital burning ground
since last. repprt
From the city and suburbs 7
From the city, hospital 7
Total 14
Stephen Girard,
(Signed) Caleb Lownes,
John Connelly.
Published by order of the Board,
Wm. MONTGOMERY,'
1 Chairman protem.
Cirr HOSPITAL REPORT,
From 23d to 24th Sept. in the morning.
Admitted since last report.
Wm- Hamilton, Mrs. Morrifons, South
above Front.
Mary Dennis, Fishers, Vernon street.
Lawrence Huddleftone, Robert Carr's,
M<;ad alley.
Thomas Roffeter, next African church,
Fifth street.
Hannah Campbell, Dean's head tavern,
between Carter's alley and Dock street. v
Elizabeth Miller, Camptown.
Neal M'Dnnigall, Walnut, between Se
venth and Eighth.
Kitty Hall, 185, South Water street.
Discharged, since last report,.
Jofepl. Arned, • admitted 13th inft.
Died since last report,
when admitted liow longfick pre
vious to admission.
George Specie, 20th 6 days
. Robert Shaw, 20th 4 days
j Andrew McKeW, 22ft 4 days
Anthony Jose, 22d 4 days
Remaining last. report 58
Admitted since . 8
66
Discharged 1
Died 4- 5
tF • • -tj r • 1 f Convalcfcentiß~) -
Remains in Holpital. -j gj c j c 4"J
lii'errgd since last report.
From city, and suburbs 8
Hospital 4
Total 12
Stephen Girarb.
(jSigned) Caleb Lownes.
John Connelly.
Published by pr<Vr of the Board,
Wm. MONTGOMERY,
Chairn?n pro tem.
" • 11 ■ ■ ." ——
| Bank of North, America,
' September 8 th, 1797.
ON Monday nrxt the Notice' for at! Notes cr
Bills payable «th»sßanfc,which fall dueonthat
a'ld the ensuing 6 days, will be icrved on the Pay.
erss rid the like Notices on rveiy Mgnd*y, till
the further orders of the Dire-flors—Pcnons v/: Th
ing to deposit Nate- or Bills for Coll.fb'on, v.'i ich
rre to full due within the week, malt tbemC-lrte'
undertake to give notice to rs. diff
MMIGSIONERS' SALES, j
f PHI Commifiionera of the counties ot Ly-{
J. corr.inj; and Nbrt,humberla.ods nave given Jh
l\otite th.U tliey intend to proceed to trie fa'e ol
lauds, for the arrestee of taxes, on the 7th oi A
Etptern'uer next..
>l'f The different printers this city will
•ffinifr an efientiil l'ervice to a great »u«nber of f
. iiH!ivitlua l i i>v publilhing this notice.
A nr. n". ' "j*
so L E SOL D VERT CHEAP ! ti
A I.igiit u' vGGGN almost new, with a frame — ®
«ad-a rair of harness (Englijh
been ufei'—price 9s Dolls.
A Horl'e 16 ban.ls high, ftven years o!d~~ and a
tevir chair, with a falling tog and fcarficfv- 340.
Enquire No. 33X, Market-flreet
uguft 14- diw
10 be ibid at Public Vejuiue,
To the higlieft bidder, at the hbUle ot Mr.
Evans, the sign ot the Indian
QWtn, :n tbe city of Baltimore, 011 the 25th
d.iy of Otfober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
Ahot'-t lcVen thbufand acres of lanj,
the property of William Bell, of i liiladelpttia,
lying between Reifter ! s-town and WefttKlnfter,
commonly called Little Winohefter, (the turn- j
pilre roid, runs through a eonfidarable part oi :
thtfe lands) the traft begins about 17 miles!
frptn Baltimore, within a !«' hundred yards ,
cf laid Reiiter's-towni and extend., to the dif- ;
tance of about twenty-three miles trom Halti- 1
rliore, arid lie.- on the main (alls of Patapfioo j
river, three to four rnilei thereon. Will;
be fold i" trails of one hundred and filty to (
tWfs hundred acre. There is a lar;*e prcpor- j
tirn cf meadou' aV.d wood land 011 each
fcDM-' of tliem^,highly improved, with excellent
buildin a v and fine grcfs.
At so
A tract of seven hundred acres of r)
land, csiled Clover Farms, five ingles of k
Iliac!enlhurg, esteemed very good for Grass. b<
Richard Fonfonby, of Blidenlburgh, will (hew d.
this land to any person inclined.to purchase. la
ai.so, n
A traft of land of about three hun- s
dred snd thirty acres, within about two miles j
and a half of the President's house in the Fcde- ' _
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
h : jh frnfpo<sl, froc* which may be fcen the
city-os \Yaldington, IMadenfburgh, Alexandria
jpH a part of George-tfown, and many miles
down the Potomac riyer. Mr. Richard l'or.ion*
by, of Bladcr.fburg:, will also (hew this lar.d. i
A liberal credit will be given for the grcSteft j
part of the yurchaft* monty., jhe terms will t j
' be rrtade known on the day of sale. a
May S . d
* - c
Just Received,
, \ From Batavia(viaProvk!ence) r
a few Box»sof Spices, conClling of ]
Nutaiegu, Clovcsand wace
1 For fait by
WILLINCSfJ FRANCIS, j
i'enn ilrect. I
y'3o & I
Davis's Law Book Store, t
iVo.' 319, High-Street. I
GEU RG E DAVIS, ;
BLING bulled for fom; time past in pr.-para
t.ons for removing into his prolent house, has f
been undci thenecellityof poftponinguntil this .lay j
infoimingthcgentlemen ofthe Bar generally thro' |
the United States, that his fprir-g importation of f
taw books is now arr.nged and ready for li'e," 011
•-tins that he trulls will .ntnleliim to the like pre
ireeliie he has experienced for Jeveral years pall.
C-taiogues, comhinii.g the moil varied collce
—J?*M> ever iinported ir.to this country, are printed
will be delivered on application. j
City CzmTtitfioners Office,
Jans il, »79f.
IN pursuance cf an ordinance from the feleifl
and common councils, pafl'ed the 2id day of
MaV lift, appointing the city cemmiflioners,
and orefcribing thsir duties, fcilion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
" ' That the city is divided into five ditiriefli,
each to be under thfe fupcrintendance of one of
the citycomfnifiienere, whoistobe individually
relpouiible for the cleaiilinefs of the fame, and
are as follow.
Driftridl No. I. From the fotith fide of Ce
dar-ftrecj, tothe north fide of Spruce .flreet, un
derthe fuperistendencc of Natlun Boys.
1. From thenonh fide of Spruce-flreet, to
the north fide of Walnut-ftreet,under the super-
Intendence of Hugh Uobertt.
3. From the north fide of Walnut tothefouth
fide of High-street, under the fupermtendence ol
Jpfcph Cbypoole.
4. Fr m the north fide of Higli-flreet, tothe.
north fide of Mulbe'ry flreet, under the fuper
inttndenee cf William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulherry-ftreet to
the noi til fide of Vir.e-flreet, under tfye fuper
i»ren'dence of Nicholas Hioks.
Thet-leaningof High-fireet to be in common.
A dated meeting of the city commifiion
ers islield at the Old Court House, in Hiijh
ftreet, every Tirefday evening at s o'clock
July M. e"' m
Stands for Draymen,
In pursuance of cm Ordinance from tbeSele Fi and
Common Counctlj, tearing date the ltd daj of
Jf'rU, 17.97, viding for tbe appointment of
City Commifjionen, \i"c. 4efl- tbe 15th. I
r T"HE following, pi aces are fixed upon by the
i said City Commissioners for Stands for
Dnymen and their Horses. . ~ 1
In Vine-'flreet, eastward of Front-street, on
both fides.
SafTafras, l-Jigh, Chefnut-and Walnut-fltreef,
eaflward of Front-ftreet,on the no.-th fide only.
Mulberry-ireet, south fide from Front to
Third-ftrect. ,
Front-ftreat, eafl fide from Virte-flreet to
El/iith'salley- Tt , ,
Front-street, from opposite to Black Ilorfe al
ley to Hamilton's flores, eafl fide.
Water-flreet, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Mopre's (lores to Pinc-ftreet.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce-Jar-llreet, weft
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South flreets, call of Frost
flreet, fo.utb f'de.
Dock-street, between Walnutylrect and tl e
flag ftor.e croffiugs, east fide, opposite George
Orkl»y's.
Second-flteet, between SafTafras and Vine
ftref|ts, weft fide.
Fifth-ftrect, east fide from Chetmt to Mul
berry flreet9.
Safl'afias-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-ftrcet,
east fide- » f
No dray or horse to stand within ten teet ot
FOR HACKNEY COACHES.
Pine-iireet, norßl fide from Fourth to Fifth
between Chefrut and Walnut
ftr'eet, north fide,between Third and
Vourthftrcets. oC
July 14. row&fim
A Literary Treat. C
Juji pubiijlecl, iaiiifomtly primal or. zvffiing
paper, price I dollar,
\ new ediiiou of th.it pnpulsr'and entertaining
work, entitled
"pHE.FORH VI'ERS, an American tile ; being For
I a fc-queltoth • iiidof yof Jojhn 3ull, the CLo- A n
:l.ier—ln a&W&o'f letters to a frienu, with the tid- ' & ca/l
dit:on of t\\ o letters, alluding to recent political
rranfa&ions in America.
The folio wing extra<& from the Clavis Allegoric a,
shews the principal cuara&ers that are introduced:
John 3ull, the Kingdom of XVriglund
HU Mother, the CJ* urch of
1"! is Wife, the Varhnnent
Hid Siller Peg, the Church of Scotland
\ His Brother Patrick. Ireland
Lewis, the Kingdom'of r ranee
His Miftrefi*, the Old Conllit-ution • c
His rtvw Wife, the National Representation *
Lord Strut, thftlyiqgdom of Spain *
fcvicholuS Frog, the Dutch RepuMie l > oc
The Franks, tl.e French Republic J
The Foresters, the United t-tatesof America
Robert Lumhtr, Ncw-llampfliire Jo#7J
John Codltne, Malfachufetts 23**6
Humphrey Plawfhaie, Conne&icut
Roger Carrier,\Rhode lUand 50,0 c
Peter Bull froNew-York
Julius Caifar, New-Jersey N.
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania tity o
Callimar, Delaware the l
Walter Pipevvoo4, Virginia but 9
Hi* Grandson, George WaGiingtoa An
Peter Pitch, North Carolina mocs
Charles Indigo, South Carolina be re
George Truuy, Georgia ets.
Ethan tJr.*enwood, Vermont Th
Hunter JLonghnife, Kentucky , the pi
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves Waft
Rats, Speculators (cleii
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins 1 fquar
.JjT This popular and entertainii satirical hifto- twoc
ry of Amaiicais attributed to the Rev. DKBel- fible;
knap. It has a great shire of originality and a- w J;cr
bovmds with genuine humour, it is continued then
down to the preient time, and characterift-» those Lott<
late political tranfa&ions which have caused 10 be m
much uneafmefs in America. wig,
SOI4 by H. and-P. RICE, Booldeller, No. 16, the f
South Second Sticet, and No. jo, Marke* flject. b c cr
June 26. § Ti
LAWBOOKS, i°-.o
Latelt London and Dublin Editions.
H. &P. RICE, Booksellers, J .5
No. i 4, South Second, and No. 50, Market flreet, 1 hia ;
HAVE iuit received by the lite arriva's.lrniri i Giln
JLon&>n and Dublin, their spring imports- ! and
tion confi{ling of a variety of the latest and rnofl 1
approved 1 aw Books, which added to those alrea- | ~
dy on hand, forms the mod extensive colleilion ev- I
er offered for fa'e in this country. They thei efore j
beg leave to notice, tliat from the nature of their j "TT
" conncfiiens in Dublin, they are enabled to fell Iriih i >\
editions (at they have hitherto im.i*) at the very ' felvt
lowefl prices. The following are among the lateil I of 1
publications! | YOl
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, a j traf
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgcway's Re»ort»/i to t
in the time of LoiJ Hardwick*; Flayer's Procters It >1
Pra&ice in the EcclelUftical Courts; Barton's be j
Treatise on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's PrajSice of drei
the tv urt of King's Bench in Perfoaal Adions, 1 foui
parts complete ; Wiird's I.aw of Nations ; Cruiftf mai
on Uses ; modern Reports, 11 vols. London edi- fide
tion. feve
H. and P. Rici expefl to receive by the firfl ar- sup;
rivsl from New-York the 6th vol. complete of bri-
Durnford and Eafi's Reports, the 2d part of Gil- doli
belt's (.aw of Evidence by Loft, and a number of as f
new publications. the
June 56. Del
The Hiltory of Pennsylvania, mi
v BY KOBERT PROUD, and
Tj now in Oie prels, and will be published,, to
X with all convenient expedition, by Zicha- Cfc
riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftrpet,
Ptiilidelphia, where fubfcriptlons will continue ''''
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library, P u .'
according to tbe printed pro]»ofals, until the
work is ready for the fubfcrilwrs. ~
July 18. aawtf a(]
Printed Calicoes. ef
tht
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co. «■
No. 8 Cbd/nut-Strett, s
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly very low on
ihort credit.
March 6. § e
Richard and "James Potter j C)
HAVF. removed tfceir Counting House to No. i ?"
45, South Fifth-ftreet. • | ,n ,
t uguft 1. w&f6t ;
■ 1 p.
Lancaster, Harrijburgb Carlijle, , h
Soippenjburg arid Sunbury v <
STAGES.
) m
TIE public are reqnefted totske notice, that £,
the partnerfitip whithhas for sometime sub- j ; E
fiftfd betwcs.i Mathia* Slough ot Lancailer, and ;
William Geer, is now difioi/ed . but, Rot as M. |
Slough infintfites to the public without just cause ; I K
as will more fully appear by a letter on she sub- g,
je& from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th ti
- December lalt a reeitafofwhich is not now deem- p
ed necefTary. Any gentleman who wishes to be v \
j mere circumstantially infurmed of the merits of f„
, this business, hy applying to W. Geer may have 1 n
t the perusal ®f M. Slough's letter, and then can be jfa
' at full liberty to determine whether or not W. n
Geer is not perfe<slly juftifiabie in attaching him- m
e felf to any other pcrfon in the prcfccution of the d
r Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf- ci
urg, or any other place. > * ti
n Now flom the liberal and generous support the si
public were pleased to confer on the Grft effort v in d
e i this business, Vfilliatn Geer, in conjunction with
;. Messrs. Ueily, V»'ced and NVitmer, is determined j
o to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at'» j
teution anddifjiatch that a leal to oblige the pub- j ™
:o Ik c»n pofiibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided ! "I
1- with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to J J
render the pnffage fafe and commodious, inform ; n
5 f thof« wno wi(b to patronize and encourage the ' a
undertaking, that tl>ey can take their feats at i a
George Weed's, the sign of the White Hc.rfe, ,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday | f|
and Friday, to proceed to Lanca.ler, Harrifourg, ' ,j
Carlille and Shioper.fburg. The fare as hitherto 1 t
' 1 ! ellabliihed. J „
! For the further accommodation ol the public, | n
f a Stage will '1 •rt every Wednesday from the houfj f
of Samuel' F.lder, ih Harrilburg, orrive at Sun- j
hury in Northumberland county, every Thuriday, I
ie ind returairom thence and arriye at Harrifburg j
every Saturday, so that passengers destined for ; *'
'• Lancailer or Pailadelphia, may proceed 0* Mon- <
days. v
t. WILLIAM GEER. c
Lar.cafler. jin. 17, 1?97- v
'f N. C. Tli> Line »t >St*ges ftarti from the n
house of William Ferrac, in Lancafvc-r, on overy , P
Tuelday ai.'d Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro- 0
H ceeding to the westward; and irem the house of l>
Mr. Samuel Eldei in Harrilburg every Weninef
lt d.iy morning, 011 the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippcnfburg, and returns b
d from thence or. every Thnrfday : performing the tl
fame routine daily as in its fccur iicm Phibdtl.
pliia. 1 mv,f
M
Citv of vV-afliingtoii.
■ , Frosi
SCHEME /
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
Ear the Improvement oj the Federal City.
A magnificent;! wclling-iioufe so,ooo dollars,
& cajh jo,ooo, ire 50,000
1 ditto 15,000 & ca'S 15,009 40,000 _1
1 ditto 15,000 £; calh 15,000 30,000
1 < .'o 10,000 fc calh 10,000 ao.ooo
i ditto 5,060 & calh 5,000 10,000 LO
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,600
I ca& prize of 10,000 I
i do. £,oooeach,are « 10,000
. 10 do. - - 10,000 S _ A '
10 do. 500 - - lo.oon t,on
Co J>. mo - - 10,000 " JU I
i <la. 50 - • 10,000
400 do. H - - 10,000
1,000 do. jo - 10,000 j no .
IS, CO 3 do. 10 - 159,000 ~
*6,73? Arises. ' p er ]
33,161 blanks, dw
50,1x50 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000 Bilh
N. B. Tofivour those who may takeaouan- ]i
tity of Tickets, the prixeof 40,000 dollars will be
the nsr drawp ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but ®ne : .
And ajprovednotes, fecuringpayment in either
monsy or prizes, in ten <iey« atter drawing, will
be received sot iaynambcr not lets than 30 tick
ets. a
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be ertiled in theCitycf CI
Wafkatgtou—Two beautiful dedges are already
(e'.eilsd for tnfe entire fronts on two of the public j
squares; from these drawings it ispropofed toeredl
two centre and 'our center buildings as soon aspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adviiiturtrs, in Soli
the manner deferred in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A n'ett deduction of five per cent, will 'J
be made to defray thcnecetTary expenses of print
wig, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Univcrlity, to c j ]
bcerccledivithinthceity of Wafliington. crl
The real ieiuritiesgivcn for thc'paymeot of the ,j 0 ]
Srires, an. held hyjthe PreSdent aird two Direil-
ors of the Eank oi Col)iaib;a». and are valued at Rot
more than half the jmcunt of the lattery. e „ c
SAMUEL BLODGET. „ r
.§, Tisketsmay be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Fetcr
Oilmajn 3oft,on ;of John Hopkins, Richmond ; j
and of Richard W.lls, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf j 3
From the Otfego Herald.
CAUTION. ™
"VTTHEIiI'-AS a combination of men in this me ,
VV coUnty have undertaken to enrich thsn;- the
felves,by fabricating titles to sundry valuable trail* he
of lard, the property of gentlemen living in New coi
Yoik, Philadelphia, London and Paris, for which wh
trails of Isnd large sums of money lyive been paid 'or
to tliufr fraudulent men, by innocent
It i' therefore juil that public information should a °. :
be given, tu the end, thattht injured may feekre- lhl
dress while the men hava property, and are to be
found, Those who have been discovered are Tru-
nun Harrifon, Joseph Witcoml/, said now to re- 1
fide in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and jj,
fcveral othen who go under fictitious names. It is t j, (
supposed that thejnnds offered fcr faleon those fa- di
bri.ated titles, are at lcaft worth fifty thousand ed
dollars. such as we have a&ual knowledge of are ih<
as follows : J.ots No. II and 11, Otfe/o patent, fui
thousand acres each,the actual property of "William
Dellwyn, new of London ; lots No. 58 and 64, er<
fame putcnr, thousand acres each, the property of ivi
Mr. Cliaumont, now of Paris, and-lames AveriU
and others, ot thin State. There is some gronfids
to suppose that the lands of Hi-hard Wells and
Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their
r management.—The Printers will do well to give
. this a place in their papers, as well to caution the
public against purchasing those lands, as also to de
[ prire those men in future from on indivi
dusfs, which their education and addrels have en- ; a
abled them to do heretofore. Wiuomb has been f a
a ihopkeeper of feme note in this tountry. fn
The following affidavits will set in a,clear pcint te
of view th- vi.ksdnefs of those men,which when th
the public have perused, wi'l induce them to ex- h;
cufe the ir.t»i{erence of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July 18th, 17J7. w
I Thomas Kelly, of the County of Otfego, hav- 'r
H ing been led into an error, by John Witcomb and ' r
Truman Hurrifcn, of the lame County, to sign a ■
deed to them, for lot No. 58, O:fego patent, which 1
was the property of William T. Franklin now Mr.
j Chamont's and others ; «nd further the said Joseph
) j and Truman did persuade me to do this against my ,
. inclination, which was made out on the ictli day Q
! of Novenibir, 1793, or set back two years so as a
_ to bring it to that time ; and further the name of f
Pardon Starksto that deed was a fictitious nam«, t
> there being no such perlon there. To this 1 nuke b
voluntary oath- THOMAS KELLY. r
19th July, 1797- ' t
On the 9th July, 1797, came personally before ] 1
me, Thomas Kelly, the fubfenber to the above as- I I
at j fidavit, rnd made lblemn oath that it noth
' ing but the truth,
id; JLIHU PHINNEY, Jufticetf the Peace.
A- t On the lith July, J797• cin; c before me Jacob
: ; Kibby, a person by me well Vtiown and worthy of 1
h- pood credit, who 011 his Solemn oath did lay, that
t& two cf the parties ab.ovetnentioncd did make ap
n- plication to him *.inis deponent, some time in the !
be winter of 1796. to make them a deedfor two thou- (
of sand acrt- of land in the Otfgo patent, and pro
ve mifed this deponent a ftlarc of the profits, on the '
be j sale of said lands, for his so doing; and th it they '
V. • the fame purpo v, '
n- : which lc-rvicss this deponent as often rtlufed, de
he i daring to them that he had no right to lands, and !
if- c6uld do no such thing ; which daring attempt on 1
, th s deponent's integrity he had related among his ;
he friends several t.iihes, previous to making this afli
in davit. JACOB KIISBLY. <
th Sworn before mc, . 1
ed j ELIHU FHINNEY, Justice of the Feate.
it- | Aug. ?. iaw4w.
i hirty Dollars Reward.
cd ' T? LOPED from the service of the fubferiber,
to j XL on the 19th inllar.t, a negro nia;i by the
■m ! name of DICK, about twenty-five y«arg of age,
he | and live feet nine or ten inches- high ; by trade
at j a carpenter, and is a very lively brilk work
man. His countenance 15 very good —When
a y ! fpokan to, he converses with ease and confi
rJ?' ' dence, sr:d is jnetty sagacious. I purchased
rto j the said feltow ot" Mr.Dubney Minor, in whose
. ! name he has been advertifee) in the Richmond
I newfpap.r~- During his last runaway trip (last
J " j fumraer) he was employed a confidtrable length
of time, by some pertoti near Dumfii.-s, from
j which I conjeflure, he has taken
; another nothevn routt I forewarm all petfons
m _ j from giving hiul employment, of any kind
whatever, and maftersof vedcls and others, from
carrying him out of this state. The above re
ward will be given if he is taken within forty
j, t miles of this city; and an aeldition:! lum, in
rv proportion to the distance he may be brought,
or the trouble jndrxpencethe apprehendcr may
of beat, in bringing him to this place.
, f _ AUG; DAVIS,
a- N.B. His appai cl was of the usual negro kind,
ns but he had more cloaths than is cufloniary for
he them to possess.
el- AD.
Richmsnt!, June ii» J"9'7<
1 1:
Wiii.be Landed,
From on bo:.rd the fl'.ip Adlive, C-~.pt. El air, fr'ini
Hambutgli,
So bales white R lit Via clean Hsrnp
1 calks Clover \jeed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leujfer, I atti
North fifth ftrcct, No. 34. er.q
Tune 26. * tew
William Blackburn,
LOTTERr and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 south Sccocd-ftreet. j'
TICKETS in the CanaiX, otter;, No. 11, which a ' ci(
commJßced drawing the 19th May, FOR cfr
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor- ■
tion is the dr\u(in£ advances, particularly on ac< ■'
coupt of the five firil drawn tickets prizes of
four tlioufand dollars each, 011 the last day ot
draw j l / al
Check Boolv kept, for examination and regiftcry
ing,'in the Canal, No. 2, City of WaCiington, No.
z, and Piterfon Lotteries.
Allo. ueketr. for falcin the Schuylkill bridge and '
Perk omen Bridge lotteries, which will ~
drawing in the course of the funtmer.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &.c- ice. traufa&gd with the Jul
utmoil actention.
. June 1 tnfr f
Erflvine's View of the War. a
JUST PUBLISHED, '
Cy ' ROBERT CAMi'BELL & Co.
t\o 40 South Second ftr«ct,
f Price 31 Cents! H(
A View of the Causes and Confequen
ccs of the present War with France, g*
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May 15 ( j f e ,
Tr ATE TRIAL S. dJ
Sold by W. YduNG, Bookfeiler, No. 5», South Sc- so;
cond-ftrect,
The Pennsylvania State Trials, lr
CONtaininv trial, and acquit
al'ofFrat cisHoptinf©n,Ju»!geof Court of rn
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen- J
cral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3 c j.
dollars. u
W. Young has for fate, a general affortmcntcf
Book>. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack-
ege, well afiorted,and entitled to the drawback if
axported. July 7* —*
*pHESUBSCRIBER having been appointed by vr
J_ the Envoy txtrcordinaiy and MiniUcr Plcni* L( .
potcßtiary erf his Britannic Majesty, General r'.gent
torairifting ttritifh creditors, at.d luch particular a- m
ger.tsasthey may specialty authorize, ifi prolecuting tc
their clainas btfore che csmmiihoners for carrying in
to effeft the sixth article ot the Treaty of Amity,
mcrceand Navigation bctuxn his Britannic A'ajeJly and ~
the United States of America, hereby nonce that
he has opened hi* office at his house the south fall
coiner of Chefuut and fifth ft eets, Philadelphia,
whet* he is ready 10 receive all claims or inftrudlions
lor claims with the vouchers aud document# thereof, n
for the purpose oi bunging forwa-td the lame agree-
ably so the'rules and orders which the boaid may
think proper to prescribe. '
And a* it will be so* the in'.ereft oT til concerned, J
that the fcveral claims be lo (fated, and fuppott
ed, as to prevent the delay which would arise from -
the neceflityof obtaining further information, or ad- t<
ditional materials,from periods reading at a distance,
the general agent thinks it hi* duty to add, (lor the
dircdion chiefly of those, who> not having employ •
ed particular agents, may leave the profecutior\ of
their claimfto his charge and management) that all *
such claims ought in particular to fctforth-r
---ift. The piooer description and fitnation cf the
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, rcfpedl
ively. ■
ad. The c'att and nature of the origtoal contract or
debt. 1
3d. When, in whit manner, and to what extent, I
tlie creditor or claimant Wis prevented or impeded,
by the proviGon, operation or dctefct of law, the y
I decifionsand pradlice of courts, or rtftrainl of exe- r
cution, from recovering payment ot the debt io
que(lion» a
4th The loss and damage incurred or fulfained,
iaconfequer.ee of such impediments, whether the i B
1 fametaay have srifen from tbc infolveney, change of c
situation, or death of the debtor, the loss of legal |
t remedy f»om laple of time, or impair ii»g c
1 the value and fccurityof the debt, which would not j.
- have so operated if such impediments had not exifled.
And sth The particular grounds and reasons on
which the claimant mnintaiins, in the terms of the j
treaty, that 44 by the ordinary course of judicial pro
j ings, the creditor cannot now obtain aud actually
a hare and receive full and adequate coinpenfatiou" to 1 r
1 the lolfes and de mages so fuftatued.
The general agcni thinks it his duty further to tag.
geft thit the fcveral claims ought to be accompanied
I and fupportcd by the aflidavits of th.i claimants duly
y fwotn and regularly atteiled, bq f J.« as to theexillence
) of the debts claimed, and C«rch other ciictimltences
s as may be wiihm the*., own knowledge relpedrvcly.
/uid wherever claimants in Hating the nature ot
l » their evidence (which must in every ir.ftance be the
e beilof Vhich the cale is capable) have oceafion to
t c the tellimo'uy of witne(Tc> f it will bt prope:
l'i9 apprise the general agent of. the names and placu>
"1' | c»f residence of fuc'n witccflxjand the faClito be eita
f- I blilhed by their leftimdny.
1- Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June Bth. 1797*
,i, For Sale,
Dt That tvettknown place, called FANDZORiti'a
II PERRY,
Nefhatniny creak, 18 miles from Phili
ie ladelphia, on the New York polt road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
0 , preniiiies are a Urge two story stone house occu
' pied asatvern, and a good one (lory (lone kit-
J chen, a frame liable with a good threlhing
e _' lloor, and lome out buildings—also a well of
K j good water, and an exc«lkju ice House. On
>n this place is a moll eUgant fouation fora gentle
,l3 man's feat, commanding a view of the Nelham
[i- ir.y to its jumflion wiih the Delaware, and thence
ac'rols to the Jersey (hore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the S«V>fcr.ber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
~ y iv J4. jtjwtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
i'e Boarding School for young Ladies.
e > -n yr«s. GROOMBRIDGB with much pleaf
llc J_\|_ ureand refpe«fl, returns her fuicere ac
knowledgemcnt for the liberal encouragement
en she has received during four years relider.ee in
si" Philadelphia; and allures her friends aiwl the
e< * public, so far from intending to decline her
' lu school, (he has made a fupenor arAngement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars. : —Every branch of ufdul and polite
ediicati»n is particularly attended to by Mr».
m GroomVidge antj mafl&rs excelling 111 their
en refpeciive profrfTions.
ns Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June
m The situation is perfeilly healtiy ; andrsade
e ~ more agreeable by an exteufive garden and lot
r y of croiind adjoining ihe houle.
in
it, JuJ üb.ifhed,
ay And to be hid of MtflVs. Dofefon, Canipb»U,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfcliers in
city,price one dollar, twmty-five cents,in boards,
d ' New Views of the Origin of the
° r Tribes and Nations of America.
By EKNJAMIN SMITH BARTON, M. D.
June jo. ' *6'
Kiggiris* .Specific
fOR T::B
PREVENTION AND CURE OF THE
YELI.bIV FEVER.
TpVER fmcc this disease mc.dc :"uch ravages in this
Jl -j city r.r.u New- oik", the author lias turnei hi*
attention to an J cure.— 6f his
enquiries Was convinced' him that the rcafon why so
few pcrfons recover from its'attacks, are frem its
not being well iinder-'lood, and the confcqucnt
wropar method taken to cure it. lie is persuaded
that ihe tjtcetliye bleedijjps and mercurial rcarment
of the FAculty higmy injbriohst and that the on
ly ration.:! moue of treatment ishy the use of prop ;r
acids. Convinced ot this ho offers his Rpeiijic as a
certain remedy, if used according to the directions.
To he had iu pottles, at one dollar each, of the
inventor Geo. Higg'ms, Cherry flrect, two doors a
bove Ninth Ilree:, (late manager of Jachfon and
Co's Medicine Ware house, Loudon) ;> by J. Le
blauCy No. 1 .() ; W: G*ijjlth, No. 17 7, T. Pearce, No.
21, South Thtal tlre;-t, T. Stiff', No. 5 s,New ilreet,
n.ar Vine street, and y. Gaits No. 36, Race It feet.
Aug. 2S> tatha 3t
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just received, by W'm. Griffiths,No,. 17 7,Sor.:bf
Second*ftreet, a frefli iupply of
Genuine Baljam of Honey,
\ Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hiil
JLjl (who knowledge as aßotanift procured him!
the appellation of the Linr.sus of Britain) and is
•onfidered in England as a certain cure for the above
complaints ; it is also cf fi.igular efficacy in the -
Hooping Coughi %
It may alio be had retail cf W.'A. Stokes, No.
61, South Second-ftrcct, ans T. Stiff, 55,
ftr«et, in bottles at 75 cents each.
Wm. Griffiths having observed the happy ef
fect of the medicine, (several cases of cures hav
ing come within his own knowledge) and the great
demand for it has induced him to order a large
supply, a part of which he has jull received.
3 [ iaw3w
hfurayce Company cf North America.
THE Stockholders in,(his ecmpany are here
by informed, that, pursuant to the fifih
claufeof their Charter, and »t the' re flu eft of a
" Number of Stockholders, who, together, arc
1 proprietors of Six Th'oufand Shires, and up
i wares," a general meeting of iiie Stoc'iholdejs
i will be.held at the Company's Office, on Mon
! day the 25th day ot September next, at ij
o'clock, A. M. for the purpose of filling: up 2
vacancy ill their Direction ; and taking into
! confidtration such Regulations or Bye La'vs a>
may be presented in conformity with the Char
ter of Incorporation.
EBEN. HAZARD, &rVy.
July 10. w&ftS2s
Public Notice is hereby, given,
T" 1 HAT at Juneterm, 1707, a petition wa'
-L presented to the Court of Common Tlei#,
held it York Town, in the State of Pennlylva
nia, at the inftjnee of James- Short, praying
the Court to supply a loft deed made by a cer
tain Andrew liickenluber, to Hugh Morrifon,
James Morrifon, and John Sample, executors
to Hans Merrifon, deceased, for fix hundred
1 acres of Land, lituate in Menaller-i
township, in the county of York .'—All pex
-1 font who have any objections to make tojheob
je<sl of the fiidpetitio* are desired to attend at
I the Court House, in the town of York, ou tl»e
sth day of September next, otherwise the loft
deed will be fupplicd. .
. ' JOHN EDIE, Clerk.
July 18. eotS's"
r 30 Dollars Reward.
Ran »w ay on Saturday >aft, two indent erf Ser
vants, Gifford Daily, a mulatto boy. about 17
~ years of age, a Aim light built active fellow, can
read and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
> has a heavy countenance ; hajd on -i tuftian coattc
and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine lhoes &c.
, Allan Hellons, a black man, about 24 years of
c j age, five feet seven or eight inches high, a thick set
* clurify built filled, particularly about the breechj.
1 had\)n a failrjr's blue jack;t lined with fwanikin,
0 dark striped vest, fuftiau
1 hat, coarse shoes, &c.; each of them had several
* shirts and several other cloH&es with them. Th.r
---" ty Dollars will be pai;j, ror the runaways or 15 dol
lars for each, an/i reasonable on delivering
them at Nq. 54, North Third-street.
i, Thj bl|ck fellow is about a year from Lewi*
To<cn, in the County of Suss x, state of Deia
r. ware, and has taken the boy with him.
d July 31. mtn&fnv
: y e 7~ToJe~IOLD or RENTED,
'* A LARGE 3 Story Brick House, on the
South fide of filbert street, between
1t Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
to veyor General's Office.
ei The Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet deep,
« the lot 110 fret dffp, with the privilege of a nine
»- feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Con*: for Carriages
to turn in. The House is not flattered, and
may be turned either into one, or two dwelling
House*.' It isluitable for a large Manuf.:flory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
J possession v.'ill be given,
Apply toNo. ill, C'nefnut-Street.
a- Ah|j. it. cod4t.
he Musical lnjlrujticni Manufactory,
U- No. 167, Arch-Sheet.
i ( " TTARPEK,harpfichord,grand,portuhls gra:«d,
ng Jrl fid --board, pier table and lcjualre piar.o Urre
of niakt r frona London, returns t harks So his friends
)n and the public, for their Hbiral encouragement,'
le- and hopes that by hisafln uity and atfer.Mon to ev
il- ery branch of his tafinefs, to n.trit a coi tfonance
ice of their favors. Piano fartes made on th» newest
ge and moll approved plans, with pedals, patent,
swell, »nd French harp flop, whieh he flatten
himfelf will Le found on 'trkl by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not iuperior to any imp rti.
*l,"ind twenty per y. ,t cheap'er. Aryiirr.ru
m.nt pufchafed us i.nn, if uot spprovedui in
twelve memths, he will'exch:nge.
g N. B. Ail kinds orf Mufjc ilinftrurnents mr.de,
- uned, and repaired with the grtarefs accuracy,
difratch, and on the most reaifonabJe term , hr
ic- ,
ready money only.
!" Second h.nd Piano Forte> taken in erchan^v^y
May ip . -
rer Forty Dollars Rewr^^M
or away from the fubfcrib^Kl
ict J.X_ ondday of this inft. July,
i ts named Wiil Bowzer, about iort
r J- five feet seven or inr.hr
c ' r chunky made ; had oa when
drab colored cloth coat, Ufiped fl
and jacket. It is prob'ni-te
cloathes, as he took a number v V
saul fellow formerly belonged
lot Blake of this pftice ; and it i I
made towards Jones's Neck, JH
State. —Any perfen
low, and feenring him so that
ce > gain, (hall receive the above
:^ c «tet of the county, and Twenty
" s ' the county, and all reasonable charges
- e hoiaa.
JESSE REED,
Qiisce Ann's County, Maryrinijv
Jeily 3. .