€■ of the Mllitft) <&> Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NUMBER 1380.3 THURSDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 9, 1797.' £Vozvjve XL
Dr. Perkins
Informs the Citizeas of Philadelphia, that he has tak<m
lodjjugs for a few days, at the Indian Qjieen, in 41»
street. He will be happy to wait on any f. crfons in this
city, between the hours of 9 and I, who wiih to fatisfy
themfelvcsof the efficacy of his
PATENT METALLIC POINTS,
A«d rwill eperate gratis for the relief of the pflor : the
iiiftruncnt9| and r 'ght of ullng them, are far sale at
his lodgings.
Subjoined, are ExtradU from a Paaiphlet, containing ma
ay remarkable cases, attclled by chiradert of the high
efi refpeiftability.
txtraßs from Letters to the Author of the Metallic Discovery.
Pierpomt Edwards, Esq. Ditlriil Attorney for the Hate
ef Coanedticut.
New-Haven, OtSober 7, ijf6.
Dear Sir,
I Ihould have written you last week, had I then been
able to afcerraia certain fads, the rumour of which I had
heard. A Mrs. Beers, a near neighbour to mt. the wife
of Xben Beers, and daughter of captaia Samuel Hoggips,
of this town, had been, for fourteea weeks, exceedingly
diflreffed with the Rheumatism, to fach a degree that for
fourteea weeks' previous te the 19th of last m'onth, lhe
had not been able to walk across the room even with crut
ches, save only once, when (he made out with the affill
auce of cratches to hobble part of the way aero s her room.
Oa the 19th of September last, (he procured a set of your
metallic substances, and in less than an hour after she had
began to use them, in the manner direfied by you, she
rose from her chair, and walked about herhouie, and on
the next day lhe went abroad to her neighbours, having
thrown aside her crutches. I h.(v« this day paid her a visit
in company with her lather, and Timothy Jones, Esq.
who lives in the-ftreet where she resides and direilly op
pofit". to her rofidence, and With Capt. Abel Burrett, who
is her next neighbor, and lives within eight yards of her
door. I reqaelted her to relate her cafo over in their
prefcascfc, wkich flic did. ? n 1 tbefc gawtlemeia all .with Qua
voice, supported, from their own knowledge, her story.
It is a duty which yoa Owe yourfelf and the world to pre
■> mulge this event. I am, very lefpetftfujly,
Your obedient ltrvaut,
PIRRPONT £0 WARDS .
N. B. She fays her fever has left her, her appetite has
returned, and she is in a fair way to be reltored to perfect
health.
Rev. Mr. Spalding, of Salem.
This may certify, that the fubferfoer, in bis visits among
his people, has used Dr. Perkins's metallic points, to re
lieve paips and inflammations of various kinds, and has
succeeded to his allonifhment. They have feWom failed
l to relieve the head-ach, tseth-ach, ague m the face, in
flammation in the jyes, cramp ; cholic, rbeamatifm, pains
• of the bresft ahd lid , biles, IcUs and burns—Sometimes
there has heen a jaerfedt cure from one operation. A lad
who had been confined three days with high lymptoms of
a fever, very hot and full of pain, by an operation of the
points, designed to relieve his head, his face turned pale
ar.d cold, hii fever and pain immediately left him, aad in
a few days he was oat of deors ; the year before, at he
fame season, he was taken the fame symptoms, aad
Jay extremely sick torty days. Ti?e efficacy of the metal
lic points has gained great credit in this town.
JOSH OA, SPALDING.
December 5, 1796,
Rev. Elhanan Winchester.
1 certify, that on the lift of March, 1796, I saw Dr.
Wrir ,mr> V.y n*. 1-7?tvr -mlv.
tried with fuccelsinthe poor-honfeor betteriag-houfe in
Philadelphia ; especially npoa a man who was unable to
lilt his right hand to his head, as was tried beforehand, bnt
•who after a few minutes operation, yas able to remove it
at pleafurc ; and in my fight, put it witheafe oa the top
of his head and back of his neck, and in all direilions.
Nearly the lame effect took place upv.' 1 a woman j and
all that I saw treated, profeffed that their paios --eased
after being treated ji lhort time : aad several came volun
tarily, and in my hearing thanked the Dr. lor cures he
■had performed on them about eight weeks before, in re
moving pains from them, which they declared had not
since returned : —fo that from what 1 saw with my own 1
eyes, and what 1 have heard, I have (great hopes that this
. method will greatly tend to alleviate the trileries of man
i*nd. ELHANAN WINCHESTER -
f Philadelphia, April 4, 1796.
Extradl from a Providence Papar.
Communication.
Dr. Perkins's invention for removing pains from the
human body, begins to obtain reputation in proportion
to its utility and efficacy. The flmplieity of the operati
on was at lirft an obftade to its credit; lut the floodof e
videace in its favor, from aitual expe. • -nt, is at length
too powerful to be refilled.
February 7. dxweotf
MJs. g r a ttj n
Refpe&fully informs her friends, and the public in
general, rhat on fuefday the iothd«iyof Jaruiary,
ihe proposes opening, at No. 39, North Sixth
/trcet,
A Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
Book Muslins, from 6/3 to 11/11 per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to 9/8 per yard
Striped ditto, from yflo to 10/16 per yard
Fine Coffaes
Tambour'd Book Muslins, from 13/9 to ai/per yard
Jndia Muslin, from ir/"3 to 15/ per yard
Sheeting Muslin
Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 to 6/per hdkf.
jiook muslin Handkerchiefs ftom 5/3 to 10/6 per hdkf.
Muslin color d and border'd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchiefs
Tambour'd Cravats from icfS to 11/ll
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/5 to 16/3 per yard
Table Cloths
-H uckabv ck To welling
Women s Cotton Hose, from 6/% to Ixf per pair
JJimity from sfio to 6/ii
Men's Silk Hose
Tamboijr'd muslin Handkerchiefs from 11/11 to lifi
lrifn lint'ns for Gentleir en's Shirts, from s/S to 9/7
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
£<nen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, &c. &c.
Houfhold Linen, & c . &c.
A plain Ihirt, made and mark'd, 3 1-1 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 6 dollars. . 2
p'f, 1 " *}L irt > made and marked, 5 1-1 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 j-z.
A plain ihirt, made and mark'd, 6 l-i dollars.
A very fine rufflai ditto 8 dollars. t
Linen incited.
January 13. * $
For Sale, "
At the OHke of the Editor of the Gazette ef the
United States,
* A few copies or £
" An account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of tke United States, for the year 17^."
City of Washington.
n Oemm of tht Lottery, No. 11, far the improyen»c»t
K O of tke Federal City.
is A magnificent I 20,000 dollars, & )
y dwelling-houl'e, 5 ca<h 30,000, are ) 5 » •
t ditto 15,000 & cadi 15,000 40,c0s
I cfitto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
* s ditto 10,000 it cash 10,000 »o,oo»
■' I ditto 5,000 at calh j ,odO' ' loioo*
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000
a do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000 ,
10 do. i,eoo *- • ie,ooo
40 do. 500 - » 10,000
00 do. 100 - - io,onp
aoo do. 50 10,(jot
400 do. »5 . 10,000
„ 1,003 do. 19 - 10,000
j 15,00 a do. 10 - 150,000
e ——
i, W>i739 Prijets.
y 33,261 Blanks.
e jo,ooo Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
:- N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity »f
1. Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
r ticket, apd the 30,000 the last but one :
d And approved notes, securing payment in either money
e er prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be reserved foi
n any number not less than 30 tickets.
g This Lattery will afford an degant fpepimen of the pri
t vate buildings to be ertited in the City of Washington—
[. Two beaucitul designs are already leleifted for the entire
fronts on two of the public Iquares ; from theTe prawings
0 it ispropofed to erect two centre and four corner buildings,
r as soon as poffiide after this lottery is fold, and to coiivey
r them, when complew, "to the fortunate adventurers, in
a the luanner d-icribed in the frf/tr f :
'. A nett dedu&ion of live per cent, will be made to defray
- the necessary expenses of printing, the furplu
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
Umverlity, to be erected within the city of Waihißgton.
1, he Prawing will commence as soon as the tickets arc
s old off.—The money prizes wjll be payable in thirty days.
t after it is finifhed ; and any pr lei for which fortunate
numbers aie not produced within twejve months after th
drawing is closed, are to be confidercd as given towards
r the funJ lor the University; it being determined to fettle
- the whole business in a year from the e .ding of the draw
-1 ing, and to take up the botjds given as security.
d I he real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
. are held by the President and two Diredlors of the Baijk
8 of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
s mount of the lottery.
1 The twenty tour gentlemen who by appointment o:
f the late Commifiioners allifted in tke management of the
; Hotel Lottery are requelled to undertake this arduous talk
; i feconu time on behalf ef the public ; a fufficie«t num
1 t;r of thele having kindly accepted, it is hoped that »he
• iends to a National University and the other federal ob
l jo As (nay continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent, as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are assured thru the
drawing will l'peediiy commence, and that the care and'
caution unavoidably neceliary to insure a fafe difpolal of
tha tickets, has rendered the in.ir fulpeofion ipdifpeniable
> ™ ~" " eryffrrrfftt l ':-i-o
.§. Tiekets n»ay be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
, James Well & Co. Baltimore ;of Peter Oilman, Bolton :
t of Johp Hopkins, Riehmqai ; and of Walls
t Cooper's Fe/ry.
i" Thg schooner Orion.
is between eighteen inonths.ind two
■ . \car» old ; her frame it of the best of VV.
■ | Oak.; fly: .0 a tji. nlul-built veflcl—har.dfomely fimlhed off
—and well found 111 every particular :i, ready 'to receive a
1 ; cargo and caH be pat to Sea without any expenceon her Hull,
1 I fails, or rigging. She Hows 6jo barrels,'has a handlome
. cabin and and a hall decfc which will flow ft vent y
five or eighty barrels. She is a I all failing >effi:l —has bee
newly cauikad, graved and painted, and put in thorough good
ftpiir in every refped ; her inventory tniv be fe«n by fpply
ing to the captain on board said Ichooncr, laying at Mr. John
Wiicocks ( wharf, bf tween Chefnut and vV alnut Street, where
| (he at any tune relay be thorougnly examined by those who
wiih to purchalie. f
Ihe terms of Tale may be known l»y applying to Samuel
Smith, Ihip broker, No. 86, South Front Street.
Feb - *• ' dtf.
For Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DIANA,
S4MUU Pile, Master,
Bufthen *®J. 47-95 »»• r«gift*r, built in
Philadelphia in the year 1791, of live oak
and red cedar, and was (heathed 13 months ago, she
ha 6 just had a compleat out-fit, and mjy be fewt to sea
jit a very triCing expence.
Far terms apply to /
Philip Nicklirt Isf Cp.
Ifho have far sale on beard said vffjil,
x? calks of fine yellow paint.
9 boxes and 11 bundles of writing dates.
I box ink stands and note prefles.
14 bales of fail canvass.
And on hand»
ImperiaJ )
Hyson, and, > , TEAS.
Souchong 3 '
40,000 pieces Nankeens of tlie 6rl quality. 1
19 tubs |
t chcfh Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A., few » isfts Manchester goodswell assorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &c.
boxes blaek sewing silk. '
IKO crates Queens warp well aflbrted. 1
10 tons Iheet lead. c
Naiis alTorted, flat and (harp points. j
London Particular, "1 t
London Market, i Made'ra W.ne m pipe,
New-York Market, ) an<J ho S«h^^-
40 pipes and 10 Teneriife win*.
8 tierces Snake Roat. '
130 logs Ma.hogany. f
Nov 7. tth&ftf t
FOR SALE,
THE SHIP MART, o
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
" -j- wo hundred tons burthen. Apply to j
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co. P
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, she will tak t:
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above. 1 f<
r >f f Vnhe'- it. * d tl
Elegant Brussels k Turkey Carpeting, ll
For sale by George OobfoD, No. »s,So*tJ» Third-street.
December ,15. dtf e<
CONTINUATION OF
K FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
By the Briti/b Packet Carfertt.
.
HAGUE, November 13.
In the fit ting of the loth inft tbc plan »f the
rf»n ,l :to:io» of the Batavian people was at length
r btbfc&e 'Canv.ention. But
been railed even before It was read, the convention
decreed, that the reading of it fhovld be poftponcd
. until next Monday. Citizen Van Kafteele said,
hereupon,' that after' the plan had been read, he
fhoald give his opinion on the fubjeift, as it ftrnck
him that the plan was by n© means founded an the
balis of an indivjhble republic, and confidently
eould neither answer the expectation of the conven
tion, nor meet the wilhes of the people.
Don Joseph d'Anduaga, ihe Spanish minifler
lately arrived here, prcfemed his credentials the
day before yeflcrday.
The plan of the constitution has been printed for
the members of the convention, but at the fame,
if time it has been prohibited ou pain of 60C10 guild
" ers to print a single copy for any one else.
The representative JCalteele was supported by
J fpveral other members in his aflertian, that the plan
of the constitution did not aim at nnity and tndi
i- visibility, but at federalifm. The difcu(T)on of this
- plan is thetef ■ a liely to bting on very intetefting
e : and animated debates.
j All the foreign mmift?rs were invited to the Gt
y ting of the loth inliant, When tbe plan of the con
n flitution was laid before the convention.
The reprefeotatire Velleer was yesterday eleifl
v ed president of the convention.
j The troops embarked at Dunkirk on board 16
tranfperts, had not (ailed from thence on the Ift
e instant. Their deliination remains as yet a secret,
* but it is Hated in a letter from Paris ef tbe 7th
instant, that the ainiament isdcltined for the mouth
3 of the Elbe, to intercept the communication of
c the English with the continent. 1
Fourteen Englilh men of war and several armed
vetTels are still cruising off the Texel.
I.' ExtraA of a private letter from Hamburg, No.
vember ij.
" Letteis from Copenhagen, state, that com
: motions have broken out in Sweden ljnce the king
e lias taken into his own hands the administration of
' the kingdom ; this intelligence Hands, however, in
c need of coikfiiraation. The Stockholm mail is not
- yet arrived."
LEGHORN, Ofteber 28.
In consequence of the remnnftrances ot Salicetti,
y the commiJEanfr of the executive diredory, the
( merchants of this have at lad agreed to pay
Jiirti 380,00* pialtiei for tbe merchandize belong-
Ilu tfec Eftj?li(hr- wi>icii has bee4i conhfv atcd in
this port ; fu that the above ißcrchants baye now
the right of felling this merchandise as they
plesfe *'
A corps of 600 Englilh troops embarked at
Coifica, ii airiyed pt Porto-Ferrajo, three leagues
fioni this place, .and hal retaken the forts in that
iflund, which had been reduced by a c.orps of armed
Corficans Qefure t-lie Englilh Seat fails Gib-
F raltar, ait attempt play perhaps be made to take
1 our city by a coup-de maur, which, as the French
[ garrison is at present very weak, and tjie Enelifli
are far superior in numbers, would not be unlikelv
to succeed.
FRANCKFQRT, No*. 6.
Our advices Crom Ballc, d<.tcd the «ft of this
■ month, and those from dated the 3d —
Nate, that the imperial armies are making thjr matt
formidable preparations to drive the enemy entirely
from Kelil, and from the bridge head they have in
their pofTcffion near Huningen. Tbe heavy artille
ry destined for the attack of the latter, was placed
on tke jilt ult. and the Ift in It. in the eight batte
ries conftruAed on the surrounding heights, and
which are dire£ted at the fame time against the
bridge head, the biidge itfelf, and Huningen. The
bombardment was to commence en the 2d or 3d,
and the molt fuccefsful result was expected. The
quantity of artillery and ammunition
colle&ing in the environs ol Kehl, and the large
bodies of troops assembled there, announce that
that important point, still occupied by the enemy,
i> about to be attacked with thegreateft energy.
LONDON, November 24.
Mr. Will iams the captain of an American Hip, I
who was taken up on fufpicio* of being concerned ■
<n a conspiracy to set fire ts one or our D°ck-yarJs,
has been liberated, the charge against him having
.been found to b.ejnalicionfly preferred by a wotth
lefs fellow who aAcd as his mate, and whom he had
been obliged to confine.
November 25.
Bourdon of the Oife obfc rved in the fitting «f
the cettncil of five hnndred of the 10th inft. that
t-he army of the island of St. D wmin go, formerly
composed ef'450,000 negroes, is now reduced to
-130,000 ; that out of 25,000 people of colour,
there remain no more than 15,000 ; that the num
ber of the white inhabitants had decreafcd from
40, oop to about 25 or 30,000, and that all this is ]
the refull of the robberies, »a{Tacres and proscrip
tions, either ordered or authorized by the chief
Agents of Government.
•In the course cf the discussion on Alms-houses,
which took place on the 14th inft. in the Council
of Five Hundred, it was ebferved by Dumolard,
hat in the Alms house at Lyons, out nf too chil
dren, hrought thitiher by their parents, whotn the
Revolution had deprived of every means ta main
tain them, 760 have perilhed through want of
food. This citCumftance forms an important da'
turn in the ftateoient ef the depopulation which
the Revolution has occasioned in France.
fc
The French have gone so far in Italy as to pu l
even the prayers of the Italian clergy in a state «f \
requiiition. Thebifhop of Modena, in hi* paltora!
letter of the nth of October, to the Clergy i f
hit Diocese, enjoins them " to implore tlx afiii
tance of Ijeaven for the inrincible republic of
France." The pious Prelate, however, forgot to
acquaint them, that heaven would not listen :&
® thfcir prayers.
1 Lard Stanhope ha* declared he will not attend
i any mote meeting* at the-Crown and Anchor, un
j left the Sign it changed'. The Crown muil cor&e
down altogether, fays the noble citizen ; bat the
' Anchor may (lay, fur the fake of the Rope.
: it is proposed to the proprietors of the Powdee
1 mill*, at Htunflow, to name one day in the week.
• tor the exploflun of their mills, in order fei travel
' lers to keep out of the way. Inilead of the pre
fect mode of blowing thcu\ up, ad libitum, which
i* attended with great danger to thofa iiqj in the
secret. it
Wc recommend so a certain new senator, wh«
has long been primed and chargcd with his maidcq
otation, to let bimfelf off upon this occafiori.
=• COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED.
Sitting of Nov. 14.
Renaud called the attention of the Council to the
fhameful abuses and immoralities produced by the
Divorce law, and muted for the appointment of#
committee to consider of a rcvifiun of these lawe„
1 and to make their report* thereon.
Boiffy d'Anglas observed, that jt was aecelTary
to modify the laws us divorce, and tdeprive the«}
of the facility which they gave to turn marriage
into a Hate of concubinage, y But he thought they
(hould form * part of the civil code ; he therefore
moved the adjournment of the question until tb«
. difcuffioo of the civil code (hoaid take place—
1 Agreed to.
The following refclution with refped to the im
portation of British mecbandize was agreed to in ad
-1 dition to the existing laws on that subject.
' " The articles whicn have beeo already prohi
bited, and which may be sent to Franc,e on board
French vessels, and which (hall arrive before the
jth of December next, (hall not be fubjeAto coOs
fication. The proprietors (hall notwithflanding be
bound to give an account of them to the Cuitom
houfiss."
One of the fecretarits announced, fhat a greaj
number of petitions had been presented againll the
law which prohibit* the importation of English
merchandize. The petitions objeAed, that the
law went to revive the system of denunciation and
domiciliary visits.
The Order of the day was called for and adopts
ed, in opposition to Bsfalli»n, who prefTed the ne»
ceffity of taking the subject matter of the petitio t n|
into Lohlideration.
i Frimaire, Nor. Z2,
Letters from Raftadt of November IJ, fay the
Archduke Charles famrnoned Kehl to surrender
the llth, and receryed an answer of refufal. The
bombardment was thereiore hourly expected
take place. The Archduke .Charles had alio ftp
eeived,reinforcements.
Letters from Manheiin of the 14th inft. state,,
that he French are preparing to retreat behind the
Queich, a«"d have only a few outpoftj on the river
Speyerba-h. Hence if is inferred thai the Armis
tice will not be publirtied; and ney.erthelcfs ob
served as last y«r by the outpoils ea the river
Nahe.
The Emperor, ai chief of the has ad
drefled some very peremptory and fevore letters
the circle of Swabia, refpeA.ing the armiAice and
the separate treaty of peace ; similar memorial|
have also been presented to the Duke of Wurtfm
berg and the Margrave of Baden.
The works which the Anftrian* hare erected
near Huaingen, eicpofe that city to be converted
into a heap of ruins. The French still occupy the
redoubt of the bridge aud the batteries en the Islet.
Letters from Strasbourg of the 7th announce
Pichegru's departure to Paris, where he is expec
ted to obtain the chief command of the
Mcufe army.
November zz.
0» Saturday an expie/s was received as the Ad
miralty Office from Sir John Borlafe Warren,
brought to Falmouth by the Sylph brig. The
dispatches from Sir John state, that he J*ad looked
into Brett, where were ferenteen {ail the line,
with a prodigious number of transport* and llatbot
toraed boats, ready for sea ,j and hp had learnt that
80,000 troops were in readiness to embark. Thie
account, of the ay'hentieity and accuracy of which
no doubt whatever can be entertained, differs motfc
materially from other intelligence recently received.
About ten days ago an f rmament confiding of
some .gun boats, small armed reSTels, and rtanfports,
failed from the Road of Havre, haying 6000 trcop?
on board. They bad fcarceljr got out of the Road
when a gale of wind cane on, in which fereral of
the boats were wrecked, and all the men on board
of them drowned. The reft of this armament re
[ turned into be of where it has since
remained.
From tke Loudon GAzjrrE, November 26.
Downing-ftreet, November 26.
Dispatches, of which the following are copies, have
been received from Robert Craufutd, esquire, by
the right honourable lord Grenrille, his majes
ty's principal secretary of state for foreign af
fairs.
fitad quarters of kit royal ki'hnefs,
tie arch duke Charles of Aufiria?
QJfenburg, November 13, 1796.
MY LORD,
I have the honor t* inform your lordftiip, that
©racial accounts were this day received by the arch
duke from general Daridowich, dating his baring
beaten tie corp* that w** opposed to him, and ta
ken 2000 prisoners.
His advanced guard has taken pofTcflion of Trent,
which place, at well u the strong position behindit, were abandoned by the enemy without rciift ;
ance. « » 1
I have the honor to be, <
ROBERT CSAUFURD. 1
Right hor.. .lord Grenville, &c. &c.
Meacl-qutiriers oj his royal highuefs f
the arch duke Charles of /iujlria, \
Orenburg, November 13, ' '<■
-MY lord, '
1 have the honor to iriform your lordship, that
tya report leceived by hit royal ltighnefs t!*e arqh j
duke from lieutenant-general JMeS|- governor of i
it appears, that the corps which had ad- i
vanced to the Nahe, has been obliged to fall back, \
and take a poiition behind the Selta.
This corps confided merely of detachmen's from (
the garrison of Mayence, commanded by msjor- f
generals Simpafehaen ind Rofenjuerg. The latter, \
with the left wing', was potted on the heights ot t
Biebellheim and Planig, to ol.ferve c
the foimer, with the right wing, on the hili called *
the Richufberg, to defend the paflage of Bengin.
They had ordeis, in cafe of being attacked by a 1
.superior force, to retire nearer to Mayence. «
Thiijpofition on the right bank of the Lower t
Nahe is well known from the operations otlatl year. 1
Jt is not to be maintained againd an enemy of very |
superior force; for Crentznach lies so entirely ui- 1
der the fire ef the' hills from the left bank of the
river, that the enemy is always mailer of that 1
.place, as was fufficieatly, proved by the affair of '
the 11 th of December 1795- On this fide Cieutz >
nach, the heights are lo distant from the river, that
the enemy has every facility in extending himfelf ]
in front on each flank of the town ; and a corps of 1
•very inferior force take pod near en#ugh to prevent <
this formation. !
On the 26th generals Simpafch«n and Rofem 1
burg weYe attacked by two divisions of the army of 1
Sambre and Meufe. The action laded fevered hours,
and the enemy, notwithdanding so very great an 1
inequality of numbers, was tepulfed with confidet
able loss. '
Early on the 27th the French renewed their at
tack, and advanced in several columns from Creutz
nach, to turn the left of the Atidrians ; but the
latter, by an exertion of much'ability and steadi
ness, maintained their position. In the evening,
however, the generals, in conformity to the orders
mentioned ' above, determined on retiring behind
the Seltz.; and the retreat was executed with per
fect order.
The loss of the Audrians on this occasion con
.lifts of 19 killed, 184 wounded, 96 miffing ; on
the whole, 2,99 men and 89 horses.
The enemy's was peitatsly considerable ; 20G
as them were taken prisoners and brought into
Mayencc.
1 am thai circumityitialin (latinjt the particu
lars of this, in fact, unimportant affair, because 1,
observe that the official reports efthe army of Sam
bre and Meufe, 1 mean the late ones, contain the
mod absurd exaggerations. I (hould consider them
undeserving of notice, were it not that
those who have no other means of judging of the
event of the campaign than by comparing the a?-
«ounts published by the contending armies, would
be IJd into the mod erroneous concluiiona if they
gave each party credit for only an equal degree of
fairnefs in their relations.
In the enemy's official account of the affair of
the 21ft of lalt month near Neuwied, it is repre
sented as having been a serious and general attack ;
whereas it was merely undertaken for the purpose
of dedroying his bridge, and spreading alarm on the
left bank of the Rhine. Both these objects were
effe£led by a very infignificant force ; and there was
not the fmalled idea of making a serious assault on
the Tete-de-Pont of Neuwied. The enemy dates,
that besides an immense number ef killed and
'drowned, he actually took 1000 prisoners, whereas
I c?n aflure your lordlhip, from the mod authentic
information, that the whole loss of the
did not exceed 284 men.
After general Moreau's army had crrfled the
Rhine, two divisions of it were detached towards
Landau, and one division of the army of Sambre
and Meufe arrived about the fame time in the
neighborhood of Kayferflautern. General,. Hatze
was still at Schweigenheim, on the road frora Spey
er to Landau ; his corps was not of fufficient
strength to have any other objedt than that of
■ -spreading alarm in Alsace : find it wag evi
dent, that as soon as the Rhine should again sepa
rate the main armies, the enemy mud fmmediaU'ly
become maders of the vicinity of Landau.
Genetal Hotze, therefore, oir the approach of
forces infinitelyfuperior to those of hie own, re
tired towards the cfitrencbed camp at Manheiip,
without being in the fmalled degree molested by the
enemy. He ellablifhed the aiiwnced pods of his
left wing on the Reebach, from whence they ran
along the Pletz towards Franckenthal.
On the 7th instant, the French attacked general
Hotze'fi line. Their principal efforts were Jired
«d againd the left wing, and the fire of the attil
leiy and small arms continued a great part of the
d*y ; but the enemy was repulsed, and general
Hotze dill maintaining his pods ia front of the
entrenched camp, extending from the Recbach, by
the village of Maubach, to Franckenthal.
1 have the honor to be,
(Signed) ? robf.rt crauvurd.
Heed quarters of his royal
■ the arch duke Charles as /lujh'ia,
Ojfsnlurg, November 14, 1 796.
NT. LORD-,
It iswitb»the greated fatisfaftion I have the ho
nor of announcing to your lordlhip that official
reports were this day reoeived by duke,
from generals Alviuzv and Davs'dovich, wherein it
it appears that offaniive operations iu Italy have
been mod fuccefsuilly commenced.
I (hould not preftime to addrefa your lordihip
upon this fnbjcfi, were it qot that if colonel Gra
ham is, as I fuppole he mud be, with marfbal
Wurmfer in Mantua, he cannot as yet have had
itin his power to correspond with your lordfiiip.
General Alvinzy's report is dared at Fer
r«, November 7. General Davidovith's at Trente,
the Bth inllant.
After the iecond operation, undertaken for the
relief ef Mantua, thvfc c«rp» of maiflial Wurmfer'•
army, which conW not per.c'rate, retired; ►heon" t
under general Quufdanowii.il to thu Venetian Fn <■
oul; the other, under general Daviduvich, up thi
valley of the Adige, tuvra-ds Ncumarket.
These ccrp3 were fuccefsfully reinforced by coo- 1
fiderable numbei* of frefh troops ; arid general Al- =
vinzy was appoimed to command the whole ot the 1
army, until it (hould effed its re-u«ion with tr.ai 1
fhalWurmfer. 1
After the rival of the reinforcements at the '
places of their destination, general Alvinzy, who -a
in person undertsken the conduct of the coips t
in the Frioul, arranged a plan of operations, of t
which the following is a sketch :
His corps was to advance through the Trevi- '
fane, towards Bafiano, aud, alter forcing the pas- f
sage of the Brenta, to proceed towards the Adiae, f
while general Davidovich (hould descend the valley 1
by which that river runs down from the mountains '
of the Tyrol, forcing the poiition'ef Trente, Ro- 1
vered®, &c. \
"On the third of this month, upon the approach 1
of part ef general Alvinzy's advanced guard, the 1
enemy abandoned Caste Franco; and on the 4th
the Auftriar* corps advanced is two columns to the 3
Brenta ; the one to B\ffano, »f which they took '
possession, and jhe other of neatly 6 qual force, uri- v
lieutenant general Piovera, to Fotiteniva.
General Alvinzy halted on the sth inft. and r
spent that day in reconnoitering the position of 1
the enemy. He found the French army eticarnped c
in three lines in front of Vicenza.
On the 6lh, as General Alvinzy was on the I
point cfpufliing forward his advanced Buo- '
naparte, w/10 had marched in the night, commea 1
ced a mod severe attack upon his whole line. The '
action began with general Prover?.'< corps about 1
seven in the-morning, and very (bortly afterwards r
the enemy also advanced againtt Baflano.
General Alvinzy reports, that the enemy's at- '
tacks, tho made with the grcatelt impetuosity,
wereeDnltantly and completely repelled ; and that f
night put an end to the affair, without either par- *
tynav'ing gained or lolt any ground ; bat an indif- c
putable proof that the Auftrians having bad the 1
advantage in this adtion is, that when Qcneral Al- 1
vinzy next morning was preparing to renew it, he ]
found that/the enemy had completely retreated. 1
He reports, that they directed their march towards 1
Lifiera. '
Ge leral Provera's bridge over the Brenta hsv '
ing been deltroyed in the cosrfe of the morning of 1
the 6th, his column could not cross the river till 1
towards noon on the 7th, and general Alvinzy's 1
whole corps arrived late in the evening of that day '
at the camp of Caldo Ferro.
General Davidovich had the mean time driven '
back the corps oppol'ed to him, had made 1000 '
prisoners, and takea poflefliou of Trente, as was '
mentioned in his former report.
On the fame day that the above mentioned severe
action was fought on the Brenta, general Davido- '
vich attacked the enemyin the strong pass of Calia
no, a little to the northward vof Roveretlo. The
French had entrenched their position, and occupied,
in confiderable-forccy the Cattle of Beffono and La
Pietra, which, as 1 understand command the Palp.
The strength ofthe position was fnch, tbat not
withstanding his repeated efforts, general Davido
vich could not force it on the 6th ; but on the t
following day he renewed the attack.
The corps on the right of the Adige established
batteries 011 the heights of Nomi, which fired with |
considerable effedt; the troops on the left of the '
river attacked the castle and entrenchments with
perfeveting bravery, and the enemy were at length
completely defeated, with the loss of five camion,
eight ammunition waggons and 1000 prisoners.
General Davidovich supposes the enemy's loss, iii
killed and wounded, to have been considerable, and
states his own to have amounted Jo 400 men killed
wounded, and miffing.
£Signed 3
ROB. CRAUFURD.
LONDON, November 22.
A certain German traveller ance called St- Paul's
the Church of England ; a more lively foreigner
has chriltened Bath, the Coffee-Houfe of Great-
Britain.
Great apprehensions are entertained at Paris of
new infurredtions breeding in that capital. In the
departments no day pafles without some commoti
on in one quarter or the other, more particularly
in the south.
Mr. Ptit'i Schemt of Finance.
We have given our readers feme account of the
: plan of finance which Mr. Pitt means to fobftitute
in the raom of a loan. We now lay before our
readers copies qf the circular letter (Tent by Mr.
Rose to tlte'ir.ortied houses, and also of the outline
j of the proposition made by Mr. Pitt to the gentle.
1 men with whom he has been in treaty and also ad
drefled'by him to the great corporate bodies of the
1 kingdom.
Circular letter of Mr. Raft.
" The plan now in agitation, and which there is
; great reason to believe will be generally adopted in
1 the capital by the great motiied tntereft, mult, if it
: ihall fuccH'd, havtrthe belt possible effect in railing
; the value of the funds supporting public credit, and
in affording the lured means of obtaiaing a fpee-!
dy, Uosoralile and permanent peace.
" It is/hought sdvifeable to state only (he out
} line at present, acd to leave the detail to be farther
, explained, when the opinion of intelligent and well
informed perjfons on the fubjeft can be cttlle<St«d
after they have had a full oppertunijy o* conlider
. ing what proposals (hould be offered confident with
il the object ia view.
, " The general principle on which it is intended
t to proceed is, that on the sums advanced by loan,
c no Itock fhsuld at present be created, and that the
public (hould not be fubjedted to the inconvenience
p of any great iiicteafe'of capital hereafter beyond
1- the sum now to be received. With this view it is
il intended that a fccurity fliould be given to the or
d ders for the repayment of the fctms advanced with
in a period not exceeding fouryears from this time,
- and not in less than one year after tlfe conclusion of
•, the war either in money or stock, to be valued ac
cording t > fqch price as shall be now agreed on, and
e which of course will be one confidViably higher
s than the prefctu price of fto&k. The money lent
to be r .id info the It by raS almty*, If -■
' ' i ft
convenient to fne partir?;
Outline of Mr. Pitt's Plan
" Every perfoil fubl rib ng iool. to receive a de
beiiturrf .r I 101. payable either in foijr yifars, or ;
at the option of the government at any ihorter pe
riod ; nor less than one year frem the concluliofi of
peaee ; rhe amount to be Sad either in money or at
the option of the holders, in a 3 per cent (lack va.
lued : ititereft at the rate of 5 per cent oa tUc
amount of the debenture, to be p. id during the in- (
tcrral. The deben'ure to be transferable till after
the second payment but 110 longer ; at any l'uble
fcquent time before re-pay me every debenture
for nolr-to be exchangeable for 1051. capital of 5
percent. Stofck irredeemable for four years or till <
one year after the conelufiofrof the peace, and to <
be then paid in like manner as the debentures, at 1
the option of the holder either in money or in a ]
three per cent stock, valued at, 75 ; the firft pay
ment about the middle of December, the remaining 1
inltalments from March to the October following. | t
Difcouut as ufiial, on prompt payment.'* j (
On Saturday lall Mr Pitt had an interview with [ I
a number of the reprefen?atiVes*bf the raonied Ifou- I 1
fes of England ; and we understand that his p!-,i ! .
wasdifctsfTed at great length. He fp»ke of its cf- , t
fieacy with great confidence, and assured the gentle- :
merij that he was authorised by the-bigheft peifona 1
in the kingdom to fay, that they a jppted it with ' a
cordiality, and would cop:.ibuta to it largely. He j j
had confidence in the spirit and loyalty of the em- | f
pire in this experiment of a voluntary fubferiptiun ; !
but at the fame time, he hinted that if, after a fair
time allowed to the kingdom, it was found, that the
We of the ocumtry did nat fuificiemly prompt men
to come forward to its support, a peremptory
mode of drawing forth the refoarces of the king
dorm mult br adopted, to which he lhs>uld find hirn
felf obliged with pain to recur in the last tefart.
The rep,ef. sntativts of the gentlemen were strong !
aga'iiift the adoption of the plan.—They could nei
ther perceive the neceflity, the virtfdrfm, nor the ce 1
conomy of its adoption. It only to unset- f
tl« the Steady opinioßflf mankind about Engli/h ft- J
nance, and departed from the good old practice 1
without propohng any advantage by innovation. If 1
it was intended to put an end ta the patronage of \
a l«art» here was retained all the evils of patronage; «
fur the debentures were to be made transferable un- ]
til alter the second payment, evidently to aceom. <
modate those who were to do the least towards the t
public neceflity ; and thereby, for a time, such a 1
mass of paper was to be brought into the market as «
contradittcd all the ar£jhnent« which the minister 1
had so recently urged for the withdrawing of »n- 1
funded paper. After a long drfeuffion they again 1
separated without any thing final being resolved on 1
between the patties. ;
November 24. I
Precaution againjl an Invajion. I
Copy of a Circular Letter to the Lieutinants of 1
Cpunties on the Sea coast. ;
Wkite halt Nov. 15, 1799. 1
" My Lord, ,
'' A a itju m lilt- <
which already oppose themfclves to any attempts |
which it is possible the enemy may be induced to
jhake upon our coasts, if the live and dead stock -
of individuals," refiaing Bear -the sea coast, was ca
f pable of being iiiftantly removed and secured for
j the benefit of the proprietors. I am commanded 1
to recommend it to your lordship to exert your in
j fluence in causing to be made out as speedily a» pof- j
fyble, an account of the live and dead stock, in
such ofthe parishes in the county of SulTcx as are
within ten or twelve iwticsof the sea. -
" With refpedt to the mode of making out the
account required, I take this opportunity oftranf
mitting to your lordship the foim in which it hat
been executed by the voluntary exertions of gentle
men of the county of Dorftt ;#ind shall beg to
fubrnit it for your lordship's consideration and adop
tion, unless when it may be found neceflary to de
viate from it, in coafequence of local circumflan
ees and (ituatione.
Wifii rc-fpfcfl to the mode in which it 13 pro
posed to move such live and dead stock, in cafe if
should he neceflary, your lordship will communi
cate with the eommander in chief ef the d'ftridt in
which wic county of Sussex lits, and will concert
with him such previous rncafurcs for this purpose as
may be judged l equifite.
" The meeting which I have desired your loid
lliip to call an the fubjrft <tif my circular letter of
this day s date will aftoid you an oppouunity of
submitting this letter to the consideration of the
depaty lieutenants and magiilracy of the county
of Stiffex, and will canfequtntly lead to the imme
diate adoption offuch measures as (hall be necefTary
, 'to enable the tctui bto be made wnich [ am per- i
f'laded yoDrlord(h;p will be of opinion ir f» much
to be wished for.
il I aniiurther t«j inform your that the
lords commiflioners of the treafuty have received
i his majafty Vpleafurev that they (hould take such
1 previoiw meafjires as may be liecefiaty for defray
t ing a.iy txp*rie*s which may 'srife, in mnfeqnence
: of iucli poflible renioral of live and det, ' dock as 1
i have fuppotVd, as well as of any particular luffes
. which may eventimlly be occafiuned thei?by.
" Although this circumstance is such as mull ob
. viate every potiibte objection to the measure, 1 am,
r n<yerthelefs, confident, that all thnfe whom it m.-.y
] concern weuU, .exclusively perfoioal etui -
i « lideration or motive, join with the utmolt alacrity
- j in the exeewtion of a measure which has for its ob
1 jctft the general faj'ety of the county.
I have the honor to be, &c.
i PORTLAND."
, The Paris Journals up to the 23d intV. reaped
eus yellerdav. Ouir refiders by comparing,the Ga
e zette account with Buonaparte's report, will fee
d how very contradictory the ftntemetits are refpefting
s the late operations in Italy. Wc pictend not to
- reconcile them—let them speak for themselves.
f Mahogany and Logwood.
_ Cargo for Sale on board of the ftiip Sally,
j just arrived from Hon Juras.
Apply to
" • PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co.
1 February 9 §
FtjildUcipbi.i, bcbruary j.
Six per Cent. - - - - - . I (if 4
Three per Cent.
5| er Cent. _ .
Deterred Six per Cent. - - . . It jy
United States, - ' upej-.t
: Fiiiinfylvania, - _ 13 d
I — North <Vmerica, - - - 40 do.
Inluraace Comp. N. A. fharej, - 25 ct.
Pennlylv. " par .
MARCUS HOQK, February 5.
This day arrived the Swedish Bark Jupiter,-
Capt. Schales, in 94 days from Marseilles in when*
came paffei.gers Ihe remnant of Americans laiciy
redeemed by their beloved country fr»m 4 long and
painful slavery in Algiers. They left Algiers the
13th July, at which time no vessel could be procu
red to carry them diredtly to the Unit<4d . States,
they were obliged to embark with 48 Neapolitans
defiined for Leghorn ; but a few hours alter their
failing unhappily fsuntl one of the Neapolitans Uric
willi the Plague, we immediately according to Mr.
Barlow's orders returned to Algiers and landed
this man, and proceeded on our paflfage, the day
after another was found to have the
Plague, and on :he day following he died ; the day
after which Mr. Samuel E. Bayley of Newbury
port, was found to have the Plague and the day
following he died. Under those peculiar circum
fta;>ces it was unanimously agreed to proceed i»
Marseilles, as the wind was contrary so ■ Leghora,
where we arrived the 20t> July free from the plague
on board. Every precaution was taken to prevent
its further devaftatiori ; cleansing the ship contiim- >
al'y by burning fulpl u , tarred rope yarns, ana
washing the fliip and ouuclves with Viaegar were
the means of preventing its further progress, adding
to this, no other gerfw" was/tlfowed to have any
mierciaurfe with the infecied persons but twri, wh®
had beeu so fart una'.e as to survive as ter havin<r ex- r
perienced this fhuekiilg disorder, via, B'iiijaraiu
Ltint and Peter Page, who willingly did every
thing in their p avci for those unfortunate persons.
Every thirlg belonging-to the two deceafAl persons
was iianiediattly hove over-boaril after tl« ir decease
except a Yew eloaths in a chest /belonging to Mr.
Bayley which he had never touched after hisleavi ig
Algiers, the chelt was ordelSrd to be feirt 0,1 (hore
two Jeagfles below Marseilles, un-opencd, and there
burned. We sincerely believe had we have to
any other port in the iutcvancan we fhoyld not
have feee» admitted to quarantine, as a Spaxifli
btig from Algiers who ler't it a few days before us,
who ( - had loft three of her people arrived ar Mar
seilles, after having been 111 three different port* irk
Spain, and not admitted to quarantine and the \ef
f*l ordered to be burned—the captain prefer; irtg to
try Marseilles rather than lose his vessel proceeded
there, where they were received to peiform a quar.
antine of JOO days, and we believe from the great
expence they have been at iri Marseilles for the if.
cfeption of veffe's, th ir crews and merchandize from
ilieiV I_,rZ3TrrTO<rs and
precautions they take are preferable to any in the
world. We performed a quaranfirie of 82 days,
duriHg which lime we ail continued in gobd health.
Stephen Cathalan, jun. efq. American Consul at
Marleilles fupplycd us with comfortable necefTares
and a fuitof wister cloathis, which we flood mliclt
in need of for our paflage. to the United States
The late captains in beiialf of themselves, their of
ficers and crews have much to lament that Jtift-'iH
Donnaldfon, jun. efq. agent from the United S:atea
did not effedt a general redemption at the time of
his making the peace, as feve.i of their unfortunate
number has died of the plague line# the peace, a:.d
several others of various disorders. On
preach of that alarming evil, the plague, Joel Bar-*" .
low, esq. American Consul at Algiers by his
severance, abilities, and humanity for the distress. d,
brought about their general reeiempfio •, which, in
all probability, (under God) was the'means of la
ving many of " eir lives,-as at that time the plague '
raged with ftacii violence that from 40 to 50 died
within the yvails of the city daily. They touched
at Gibraltar to fill up their water, &c. the 25th
November. ,
James Simpfon, esq. American agem
Baibary. A gentleman ofjvery gre« refpeflabi
lii.y, informed them that our affairs in Welt B?rba
ry were it! a very gocd way, and that lie was daily
expe£ling a vessel to arrive fiom the United States
with the prefentsfor the Emperor, Mr. Simpfon
had his furniture &c. pack'd up to proceed to Bar
bary, to the consulship for the United States at
that Regency. The Jupiter on the 24th Decem
ber, lat. 28, 41, N. long. 20, W. boarded the "*
hulk of a (hip, supposed to belong to the Eastern
part of the United States; she was laden with large '
pint timber and plank, her malts was all gone, the ' J
main mast' about i/feet above the deck, her quar
ter d«.k blown up, ftippofed to have been wreck'd
a* much as fix months—file was about 200 toils
buttheu, could not difcovet any name upon her
stern.% Dec. 26th, lat. 26, 8, N. Jong. 21, ro, .
W. spoke the (hip Eliza of, and from Boiton, M.i
, fes Barnard, commander, out 17 days, ?11 well,.
bound to China. Capt. Barnard very pofu.'ly lent
his boat with a pretest of live flock, vegetables,
, which were very acceptable, aud offered us a
-I\f supply of provifioß, for which we return htm
• ojir fljcccrr thanks.,
Jap. 16, lat. 21, 6, N. long. 59, 30. W. 9
spoke the brig Hannah, of Haverhill f'om Norfolk
out 21 days, Robert Follandfbee, matter,, all yel ,
bound to the Weft-Indies
Jan. 26, spoke the hark Neptune, of and from
i New-York. Lat. 28, 30, N. long. 70, W.
bound to the Welt-Indies. N- V
Jan. 28, spoke the schooner John, of 1
> Samuel Cook, malfer, from Chailefton, out 6
9 days, all well, lat. 31, 50, N. long. 73, 30, W.
bound to the Weft Indies.
They left at Marseilles the (hip Nancy, captain -F
William Killings.
In the above hark, came pafTengers the two
n youngest sons of the late Duke of Orleans. *
Timothy Newman. Moses , Morfs.
IJaac Stevens. Samuel CaUer.
IVilium Furnafs. Jama Taylor.Copy of a letter from Joel Barlow, c®nfulat Al
giers, to the Secretary of State at Philadelphia.
Algiers, July 12, 1796.
Sir,
THIS will fee presented to you by the remnant
of our capuvc citizens who have survived the pains
and humiliation of ilavery in this place ; af'er ef
fecting their deliverance, in the manner which I
state to you in my letter of this day, without funds,
or any diieA intelligence that they are Con to be
cxpeded, 1 have another task to perform, in which
it is impossible to promise myfclf success : it is to
embark them without the infection of the plague.—
rive of their fellow fufferers have died of that con
s tagion, within a few weeks; and another who is at
tacked iTiuft be leit behind. It rages with iuch vi
olence ilV"the town, that altho' trey cannot embark
, withput rilk, yet it is much more dangerous for
them to stay.longer here, in any fhuation where it
is pjffible for me to place them in this most •incom
modious of all conceiveable abodes. If they es
cape infection, we (hall be much indebted to the at
tention ot capt. Calder, who commands the (hip,
and to the careful afiiltanee, as well as to the har
mony and good understanding which prevail among
all the crew.
When we reflect on the extravagant sums of mo
ney that this redemption will colt the United States,
it affords at lead Tome confelation to know, tbat it
is not expended on worthless and disorderly
lons, as is the cafe with some other nations, who,
like us, are driven to humiliation to the Barbary
States. Our people have conduced themselves in
general, with a degree of patience and d ecortiro,
which would have become a better situation than
yhat of slaves ; and tho' after tl.ey arc landed in
their country, it would be useless to recommend
them to any additional favors from government, yet
1 hope they will receive from the merchants that
encouragement to t heir profeflional i»dua r y, which
will enable them, 111 some measure, to repair their
; and from their fellow titizens in general,
that refpdtt which is due to the fufferings of he
neft men.
Sevsral of them are probably rendered incapable
of gaining their living ; one is in a state of total
blindness ; another is rendered nearly the fame
two or three carry the marks of unmerciful treat
ment in ruptuies, produced by hard labour ; and
others have had their canftitutions injured by the
plague. Some of them are doubtless obje£ts of
the charity of their countrymen ; but whether
this charity should flow to them thio' the chan
nel of the federal government, is a question on
which it would be impertinent for me to offer an
opinion.
1 am, Sir, with great refpeft,
Your obedient servant,
JOEL BARLOW.
•Algiers, ttthjuly, 1796.
To JOEL BARLOW, E/q. Am. Con.
We the fubferibers, American mailers and late cap
tives in Algiers, think it a duty incumbent on us, in
behalf of ourielvcs, our officers and crews, to acknow
ledge in a moil grateful manner ouriincere and cor
dial thanks to you, for the particular care and at
tention we bave_ j*eceiytd from y<*»u. ar
rival in this city, in your public and private cha
raiSter, during our unhappy Ilavery, and bringing 4-
bout that hippy redemption, so much feeked by us
and our beloved country a business which to all
people seemed impossible, but by your particular care
and attention his been brought about; that a life
so ever beloved by us may be long continued is the
sincere prayer of
T. NEWMAN,
STEVENS,
WILLIAM FURNASS,
SAMUEL CALDER,
JAMES TAYLOR,
MOSES MORSS,
WILLIAM PKNROSE,
MICHAEL SMITH.
Our lately captive citizens ariivcd in the city yesterday
afternoon under an escort of fevind hundreds of their
iympathctic fellow-citizens, who had gone out to meet
them on the road to town. Upon their reaching the In
dian-Qujen, the crowd was so great as to render it diffi
cult for them to proceed; and on their entering the tavern,
an ardent acclamation fcxpreffed the general latisfaulion at
their happy extritation and fate return.
One captain and fourteen seamen of those released, en
tered on hoard ar. American ihip at Marfailles.
The condition of these unfortunate men, is the ex
treme of necefiity. Belonging to different parts of the
Union, and without any iibmediite means of fhbflllence.
It has been recommended by several reputable citizens to
open lu'oicription» for their afliitance: the Banks have, in
general, agreed to teaeive donations. The foiallcft contri
butions will be acceptable-
By this day's Mails.
SAVANNAH,"January 2G.
1 he Mayor has the happinefs'of announcing to
Us unfoituuate fellow-citizens, that by lalt even- !
ing's mail, he received a draught, from the Bank
4>f the United States, on the Branch Bank of
South-Carolina, foi the futfl of jiftcn thotifanddol
lars, being the sum appropriated by the aft, to
which Governor Mifflin's letter refers.—Alfo, a
letter from the gentlemen, addiefftd in Norfolk,
informing (hat two thoujand fix hundred dollars had
been colle&ed in that city, tor which sum a bill of
exchange-is remitted to the Branch Bank in Char
leltoH. •
entered. Day»
Ship Nancy, Dill, Montego Bay, Jamaica, 18
Brig Eliza, Sampson, Boston, 12
Alexander, Backhouse, 24
Sarah, M'Allifter, Africa,
Sch r Suffolk, Boyce, Gormivvs, 18
NEW YORK, February 8.
Capt. Paul arrived at v ilmington, (N. C.) in
fotms that while belay a "'ortola, three Spanish
prizes were brought in by liritifh cruisers, on board
of one of which, a ship, was 2 Bilhwps, 25
Friars, and two millions of dollars Two American j
captains arrived at St. Thomas's from the Bite of
Leogane while capt. P. lay there, who informed
that upwards of 400 American vefTell were lying at
the Bite and at St. Pierres, all captured by the
trench, and many ofthem condemned, veflels and
cargocs.
T he two paragraphs which follow were given
to the editois by- a refps&ablc merchant of this
city for publication. \
rhefrhr. Return, capt. Michels, arrived yefter
in 14 days from Guadaleupc. Thi» veflel !
- was bound from Newbern, N. C. with a cargo
for New York, and-chived off this Cos ft in Dec.
lift, was taken by a French privateer, carried into
Gtiadaloupe, her cargo taken and condemned : and'
t the fjjecie on board, conligned t« sundry merchants
s| ot this city—ail was condemned. The veflcl liUe
- | rated after paying to depart.
Lj Ihe brig Mary, of this port, from Barhadoes
, j to Norh Carolina, was taken on the 19th of Dec.
e | and c.ai 1 ieu into St. Marks, where the veflcl srio
11 | Ipecie on -board, will probably cdl-be condemned,'
a | there being then 8 American v'efTeli *oodemned,
- which 1 the capt. exbedled would be the fate of the
- I Mary
ARRIVED.
. Slip Mary, MilUr, ■ • Isle of May
■ Juno, ———, ' Arn. r Lcidam.
r BALTIMORE, Feb. 7.
Oar navigation is once more nearly released from
its icy chains, and vefiTclsare as;ain permitted, with
. iome difficulty to pats up and down ; there was Islt
evening, forty live sea veflels of different deferip
tions between Fell's Point and Hawkins's Point,
' of which thirty were bound up, but the difficulty
r boardiug them prevented our giving a lift of their
> names-'
\V e are sorry to add, that as some men were en
gaged yesterday in cutting away the ice below the
fort, five of them fell in, and never appeared again.
WASHINGTON LOTTEIiT, No. 11.
List of Prizes and Blanks.
, • 60th Dtiys Drawing, January si.
No. Dais, No. Dots. No. Dols No. Dols.
' 94 13214 3«72J to 36086
567 683 990 090
1 801 <23383 131
i • 611 3J 962 24030 152 10
t 2167 14573 10 OS2 615 10 -
t 271 10 752 B^4
, 93 l 15696 10 25258 37034
3228 9 2 7 IO 27 6 10 371
f-5° ?32 783 749
4190 16112 26528 805
348 607 92S 38228
9/8 938 27760 to 39418
. 5166 JO 1733' xto 28298 590
589 10 381 ? 72 40H9
767 654
441 201 10 J
' 928 18104 10 55X I© 472
6416 11-T s io 7j o Ic
' ' 6i 7 419 20 858 41.114
' 968 491 xo 29161 66t
f 995 5 f 6 425 95j 10
75°3 19207 xo 667 20 42390
641 xo 687 57% '
S-)54 402 10 970 10 43046 130
605 741 30017 10 197
1 962 751 171 10 44536 10
9150 30090 448 904
10218 10 105 948 45 75 1
5 1 2 159 31078 46124 10
■S 6z 309 689 537
xi? 33 621 8,9 57 g
583 10 41106 878 47607
697 10 209 10 32321 696 10
413 10 622 10 853,
i 12720 470 20 33232 48409
13024 902 v 556
o?4 2*362 ; 889 49®»9
-15J - '4©5 10 35164
X 62 518 - 238 >
61ft Day's Drawing, Januarv 23.
; No. Dols. No. Dots. No Dels) No. Dols.
1654 JO 14137 10 28831 10 36808
2198 15613 29203 37*79.-
3*26 16489 268 10 . 720 20
753 10 370 837
4090 17181 9>s 38213 ic
158 to 177 979 39675
l 6» 18401 30146 10 412?5
851 634 10 396 <42768
3013 J9'45 3 1 631 10 43042
X 95 383 10 32*72 -678
204' 21314 374 45274
638 533 xo 551 xo 396
7421 10 651 800 433 10
911 23142 808 ,440 10
8036 10 146 33290 46154 lt>
52S 24294 399 255
9.233 20 536' 838 353
375 25c03 10 34161 47177
10380 326 172. 249
11095 10 27546 209 10 33J
797 633 443 10 490 xo
121.56 854 585 48228
662 10 pri 35498 437 10
982 10 28164 938 832
13538 742 10 36495 49284 20
Eirors—ln s*d duv, Inlfea-dof 383119 blanks read prize
, of ic) dollars. In.s7thday, inflcad of 34654 blapk- r.
? 4664. Mank.
' o3- NOTICL ■TO ' REDITORS.
r Creditors of Shaxv & .Ham-mitt and Thomas
L Shaw are particularly requedred to meet this even
ing, at 7 o'clock, on bnfinefi of importance, at Barnabas
M\Shanc's . aver 11, in 3d, near Arch-llr^et.
February 9 7
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
On THURSDAY, February, 9th,
At 7 o'clock, will ><e delivered
TheEffe&s of PRIDE, REVENGE,
Exemplified In the charaAer of
Satan,
AND THE FALL OF MAN,
And contraflcd.withthc cftcds of
DIVINE LOVE,
In the Redemption of Man, «
As difplaved by Mi ltsk, '
On Saturday-—TheEffeAs of Ambition and Guilt ex
emplified in tke Chara«sler of Mac H.
Tickets to be had of Mr v Poulf«K at the Library ;
at mr. M'Eiwee's looking-glaTs-fi« 70, S. Fourth
flreet ; and at Mr. Carey'®, 800 l .oi-, Market-street—
Half a dollar each.
ivii\ Pickering's Letter.
This Day Publiflied,
: AND FOR SALE BY THE EDITOR,
.' Pricc three«ights of a Dollar.
THE Letter of the Secretary of State, to Mr. Pinck
ney, Minister Plenipotentiary of the Ucited States, to
the French Republic. \ 6t
All Persons having Demands
| Agaihft the Eftaie of the late Thoiaas franklin,
deceased, aie desired to bring in their accounts far
1 fetilereent ; and those indebted to make immediatt
payment, to ISRAEL PLEASAMTS,
WALTER FRAKKLIN.or V t f XCtu "
SAMUEL R. FRANKLIN, ) tort -
Jmuiry *4th, 1796. COJW
/
iHI L/l DF.LP HIA.
u
d- THURSDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 9 ,1797.'
s Our Navigation is at lesigth nearly free. The. New |
_ CaflU Packets have begun t« again—leveral veffel® [
have and one or two.Shallops have come up.
s A fire, Head, executed by Rush, has jufl been put up
. on thafrigate United in Sou;hwark. It is a female'
J figure, I'a loofc attire, reprefentingfthe Ue'ftius of Coluin
, I tlte bacjc ground is feeti til; "and near him
tlir arm* of the United States ; over which be extends his
' prote&ing wings. The figure is about 9 feet in height ;
e the countenance elegant and raajeftic; the emblems happi
ly ilifpolcd , a .d the attitude and drapery peculiarly vwell
imagined and executed the whold reiie&iKg great credit
y oa.lse artiiL *
Letters have b.en received frdm Mr. Piwcknst ( dated
1 at Bourdeaux. < ■'
t : 1 reception by the inhabitants of tji at populous city,
was cordial aix4 flattering in the highest degree.
Compare the language of the Toast-men, the calumnia
, tors °f the adminiOrators of our Govcnment, with* that
, of the l.egiilature of the United States, andof theindivi
r dual ilatfs. Heaven and Hell are not more opposite.
Died, on Saturday morning iaft, of a lingering
j iodifpnfuian, which he boie with Christian fortitude, i
Mr. Jibhn Bushell, Printer, of this city. Hir. |
remains were interred, the day following, in the I
Prcfo.yterian burial ground, attended by a large
number of citizens.
Yesterday at 12 o'clock, the two Honfes afTem
bled in the chamber of the House of Representa
tive«, in pui luance of previous agrserneat, to ascer
tain the result of theele&ion of Pteiidcnt and Vice-
President of the United Stales} and it appearing
■ by the report made by Mr. Sedgwick, from the
tellers, that John Adyrps was elected President, and
Tl*mas Jefferfon Vice-Prefidfcnt, of the United
States; and Mr. Adams haviwg made the offieial
ae laration thereof, as Prelident of the Senate,
added,
" And may the Sovereign 4>f the Universe, the
©rdainer of civil government on earth for the pre- j j
of liberty, jullice and peace, amontr men, |
enable both to dilcltarge the duties of thole offices, j 1
conformably totheconftitution of the United States, 1
with confcientioui diligence, pundualhy and per- '
leverance." !
The following is a (latement of all the Votes as '
declared by the Tellers :
John Adams ( - - 7t Votes
Thomas Jefferfon . <38
Thomas Pinckney .
Aaron Burr - - 30
Samuel Adams . - ic
OliverEllfworth . ' ii
John Jay . . j
George Clinlon . y
S niuel Johnften - 2
James Iredell - "3
Geoi, e Washington - 2
Charles Cotefworth Piuckney - j
John Henry - 2
M,. Parker and "Mr. Sitgreavcs were the Tellers
on the part of the lioufe.
We leafn that the lately Captives are to be at£thr
, Pantneoiij this Evening, which is for the benefit ot the In
fant Jockjes.
CONGRESS w tiik UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
y j ,
Monday, January 16.
M r . lIE&DEkbONh 67 J 'ECU toMiauei.
I Sir, as members an- called upon far 0 fubflitute, and
) .to fpetify si of incikeit taxation as they judge
) proper for tilt purpose, 1 will take the l.berty to men
tion a fsw addition toVnany that were enumerated
by gendenian from South-Carolina, that appear to
me as objeils to embrace or to extend the duty
upofi. And fir.-., vi'ith regard to fuel) as bav« not
yet beer; noticed by government; of this description
1 are all theatrical'exhibitioru,porter raanufafturcd with- '
in the United-States, clocks and watches. It will be
) obvious, at flrft view, that these are articles of conve- 1
nience or luxury, that are generally uled by those who
1 , are the,moft able to bear the burthen of government,
and may be used or omitted at pica/ure.—Sir, with re- t
g*rd to theatrical exhibitions, we need only to turn
our eyes to the Urge and expenlive buildings occupied
for those purposes to canvinee us tWar the foiirces of
private revenue derived from their exhibitions must be
very extensive, and if so that they will fee a proper ob
je<fl to raise some public revenue from —With regard
I to porter raanufaiSlured withia the United States, I .
think there may be some revenue derived rherefronl
with as much propriety as from spirits diflilled, and
the raanufadlurer might be protedled by an additional
dyty upon imported porter —With regard to clocks and
watches, they are articles of convenience, chiefly used
by those who would not be diftrefled by a small tax,
and 1 am inclined to think, from the great number in
lift, that a considerable fym might be raifedfrcm thera
—With regard to articles that will bear an extension | ■
of duty, I agree in opinion with the gentleman from | J
South-Carotuu, who gave us lo full a detail upon the 1
Ajlijecfl, as to the greater part of the imported articles, I
and should have been glad if he had included all kinds 1
of teas, i.nflead *■" confining his calculations to behea f
only, and also beer, ale and porter, among 'he class
of liquors—With regard to the finer teas, I am of -
opinion they will all bear an addition of dutv, from 1
this one consideration, that «c use them upon better
•trtns at present, under the duty they pay,'than we
formerly used the inferior kinds—With regard to beer,
ale and porter, I would propose an additional tax, not
only to aid the revenue, but to protcfl the maiiufac-,
lure among ouri'clve6. Of the duty pad upc* these
articles, I expedl that foreigners would pay the great- -
er part as they generally give imported the preference
I am inclined to think that if the duty may be raised
upon imported, it may also be raised upon fpjrits ma
nufactured in the United States.
Sir, I would wish to make one or two observations
upon the ftatemtnt made by the gentleman from S.
C. who gave us a detail of the expenses and the proba
ble revenue of government. I find in this ftatcment
of the probable revenues from existing laws, under
the head of duties 011 impofls and tonnage, the amount
5ij28,961 dollars ccmputed as the annual net pro- '
ceeds. I find in the fiatcment made by the Secretary
ef the Ireafury, wherein'he exhibits a general view
of the amount of revenue upon impofU and tonnage
for the year 1795, the net proceeds to be calculated at |
7»959»4°9 70 dollars, making a difference ef 2,370,- 1
448 7* dollars. I find a lie in the report cf tfac Secre- 1
I: ' •
. ;
>
p tity of the Treasury, upon the system ■ tlir?<" taxes,
the following obfervit on, viz. " iv hat the prodndl
of the prefeut year wiii be, cam r c yet nown ; al
though it is certain it *j'l cx ei, c nliderably,
I ! that of the year 1795." Tfe net proceeds of the
year 1795 being, as 1 be mentioned, 7,959,409 70
dollars, nd being informed by tl'e Secretary of the
'I reafury that iheamount of duties upon imp rts and
tonnage this year will with certainty consider bly ex
eJ ceed that sum. lamat a loss to determine upon what
principle the gentleman has foundef) his calculations of
u 5.588,96 dollars, for the true an»ount of annual reve
,s nue, unlels he lh?uld have <ake it only from the ac
. tual receipts, whicli I suppose w«uld' not be cervedl,
. because the diffrrence between the receipts of calh in
i the Treasury, ind the amount of d\Jties, wuft create
x a debt due the Treasury in the hands of somebody,
that must be paid, and will prave in aid of the reve"
1 make no doum but that the gentleman who '
1 |pveus the ftatemcnt from his knowledge ol the fub
jeift, and usual eorredlnei's, ran expUin the veafons of
, the difference. I would furiher observe that, under
the fame Head, the items relating to internal revenute
are stated at sums considerably below the amount of
the preient year. The Secretary of the Treasury in
t forms us that the produ(fi of the internal revenues for
the prelent year will "be considerably more than the
year past. I think the gentleman has omitted in\ hi«
ftatcment one or two items that appear to me deferv
| in g °f some notice. I mean the probable amount of
, j fal<;s of land under the aCI of May last, and the debt
s j due frona J. C. Sjmmes and his associates. I think we
, I have a right with fume degree of certainty to calculate
upon some productive aid to our revenue from the sale
of public lands. I atn informed that with regard to
the debt ot Mr. Symmes, if the contracil is fulfilled
on the pairt of government agreeable to the report of
the Attorney-General, it will make'i considerable item
in the revenue account, according to my calculations,
there will be better than 400,000 dollars immediately
_j to be paid or placed upon interefiand paid in fix half
yearly instalments.
I Sir, the gentleman in the course of his remarks pro
• posed the finail f»m of 100,000 dollars to be raised by
diielt taxes. T his lum it is true does not at firft viewr
I appear at all alarming. But I have heard, upon for
| meroccafions, the idea of an entering wedge to a fy
, item suggested. This would operate as a complete one,
although finall yet the more dangerous ; to purfuc
the coniparifon, persons with wedges, having great
. force to overcome, make life of slim or small ones at
■ j fivft, as they are more easily introduced and soon niake
, j way for large ones. This I expect would be the efteft
» ! of the proposed fyftc rn and probably in time make way
( for the full accotnplifimient of the measure luggefted
by the member from Pennsylvania, which I before
itated to throw the.w'hoie burthen upon the farmer.
Sir, being my sentiments jl rntft vote agaifcit
the refoluticn now ofiered.
i •
NEW YQRK> February 6.
' By a Proclamation, dated Quebec Dec. 31ft*
His Majesty's free pardon is granted to all his land
forces, who fliall surrender tbemfelves on or before
the fnft day of Augult next, to any officer in ci*
ther of the Canadas y Nova-Scolia or Newl-Bruns
wick.
Nobility is entirely aboliftied at Modena, and the
Tree of Libcity is planted at Ferrara.
I h<f ijew Italian Republic of Modena, Bolgna,
Ferrara, See. kas already adopted jhe Freuch Ca*
lendar, ajid feverai other forms of that country*
BOSTON, January 31,
Cfpt. Gilmore from Barbados, in days, inform#
I us ot t-ffe capture of the fmp Ganges, Capt. Eljdui, of.
tins place, from the Isle ot Fiance, bound home. She
had been beating on our coast for a considerable
■■ time ; till being fllort of proviHons and very leaky, tU#
captain was compelled to put her before a N. W. wind
and Ace 1 for Barbadoes. He had entered the harbor—
his f.tils were clewed up, and his anchor upon the
point'of being dropped—when a boat was sent from
the iloop ot war the Favorite, commanded by the no
tonous Capt. Vv ood—and Ihe was taken poflcflion o£>
as a prize. The governor and inhabitants of the*ifland
i epi enended the in warm and pointed term#
—and the Vice A. Judge refufed to libel the veflej.
wood then took his »prize from the port, and pro-
ceeded with her to leeward, in hopes of finding as great
; a himfelf, to afiift him in her condemnation.
i his Wood the oldest comtnifiioned captain at
( the place, was commander of the naval force there,
> and amenable to no officer then at Barbadoes. The
r fanae commander had allowed the impreflment of ma
• n y Americans at the island—he did it to pick out tha
( 1' nglifhmen but rftany of the poor Americans were
. never released. On his pafTage home Capt. Gilmorc
was at St. Euftatius, where Me was told by the coin
; mander of a French privateer, that he had taken an
( Indiaraen belonging to the United States, and carried
her into St. Bartholomews—that she belonged to a per
' son wbo had been indermrfied by the English for
tain lofles, and therefore she would be condemned.
' JUST ARRIVED,
Ly the Danilh ship Friendfliip, captain Matzen, from
Oporto,
Red Port Wine,
In Pipes, Hogiheads a» J Quarter-Calks,
l s° Boxes of Lemons, /
' " iFor Sale by
Philips, Gramond & Co.
February 9
l ive Dollars Reward.
T OST, about te 1 days since, a small SPANISH DOG
, J white, dappled with yellow—sharp ears, small head'
long hair, .naming to curl ; occasionally limps on one
hind leg ; answers to the name of Damon. Whoever
will bring him to No 104, cornur of S.ruce and id
ltreets, the above reward
F « br "»y 9 " - ,f& t3t
Particular TeneriiFe Wine
- - ■ / •
50 Quarter-Calks Particular Tciieri£Fe WINE,
Of a superior O'?.lity,
For falc by A. MARPLIhf IS. W. MORRIS,
1 _ No. 60 Dock-street.
February 3 wf&maat
New Theatre.
a
oii FRIDAY EVENING, February 10,
Will be presented, (for the fifth time) an Hillorical
■ Play, called
Columbus ; -
Or, A WORLD DISCOVERED. '
To which will be added,
A COMIC OPERA, in 2 a£ls, (as performed at Covcnt-
Carden Theatre upwards of 150 nights) called
Lock and Key.
On Monday—A celebrated NEW COMEDY, (written
by the aushor of Columbus, The Childien in the Wood £.<• 1
• called THE W.-iY "IO GET MARRIEB ; with W
- uiatHjnts.Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Scheme of a Lottery, authorized by an aftentitled
"Ana& to enable the President aryl Managers of the £
Schuylkill and Sufquehannah navigation, to rjife, by
■way of Lottery; thcfnni of Four Hundred Thoufapd,
Dollars, for the purpose of completing the works, in
their acts of incorporation mentioned." _
' Dollars
I Prize os-twenty thouCaad dollars, io,oos>
I of ten thousand dollars, xo,ooo
.j of four thousand dollars each, to Nc
be paid to the poffeflors of the five Q
■ numbers ffrft out ef the wheel on the bit
day's drawing, at which time there shall
not be 'less than 500 numbers undrawu, 20,000 '
10 jf two thousand dollar* each, (■ 10,000
10 of one thousand dollars each, so,ooo
43 of five hundieddollars each, 11,500 w
100 of two hundred dollars each, 40,000
100 of one hundred diillaweacli, 10,000 m
4.10 of fifty dollars each, 11, coo
*9,500 of five dollars each, I47>s°° m
30,000 Tickets at ten dollars each. 300,000
Six dollars for each ticket will only be demanded at
the time offsle.
All prizes shall be paid ten days after the drawing is
finifhed, upon the demand of the poflefior of a fortunate g
ticket, fubjedl to a deduction of fifteen par cent. |y
Suck prizes as are not demanded within j 2 months fc
after the Drawing is finifhed, of which public notice
will be given, lhall be conlidercd as relinquished tor
the use of the Canal and applied accordingly.
At a meeting of the Prelide-.t and Managers of the e;
Schuylkill and Sufquehanna Canal Navigation—and It
the Prelident and Managers of the Delaware .and *
Schuylkill Canal, *
Resolved, That Joseph Ball, John Stemmed, Stan- ~
dish Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Crea, John Mil
ler, jnnr. and William Montgomery be a committee
to arrange and direst the mode of drlpofing of the
tickets j which committee (hall depolit the money in -2
Bank, to be carried to the credit of an account to be o
pened for the Lottery;
At a meeting ofthe Canal Board, held January 16, '97,
Resolved, That the committee for conducing the
Lottery be directed to commence the,drawing on the a
firft day of March next. i
Extract from the minutes,
Wm. M. Smith, Secretary.
Joseph Sail, 1
John Stiinmelz, I
Siandi/h Forde,
Francis Wtfi, j> Managers.
Jarret M'Crea, j
Johu Miller, jun. \
William Montgomery, J
'Jan. 19. th&f.tf
~ FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial r Hyson Skin.
Hyson, V Fresh Teas- < Souchong,
Young Hyson, j C Bohea
Dec. 9. 3«» w 3m.
Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aflortmenl of every thing neeefTary
to be used for*the
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Mineral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice in powder ; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
sweetening the month and prbferving the teeth —he
alio furnifhes Brushes and foft Sponges.
He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, above
•Fourth-street.
November t6. tts
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, w« bought for Ten Thousand
Dollars.
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet.
He eats 150 weight a-day, and dririks a barrel of
water ; he has drank some days forty bottles of porter,
drawing the corks with his trenk. >
He is perfectly ieoffenfive; travels at the
Tate of five miles an hour, and is the greatest curiosity
-ever brought to this Continent.
He is to be seen 'till the ijth of January, in
Market-street between Third and Fourih-itreets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him—
after which time the former price of half a dollar will
be reftimed.
He will leave Philadelphia as fbon as the weather
-will permit. -
December 31 d
A CARD.
If Monjicur G. H. SShls,
Who left Bordeaux the 20th June last,. and arrived
It Boston ibout the middle of Asguft, in the schooner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is requefled to call on
Joseph Anthony & Co. No. -5, Chefnut-ftreet. who
•will give him foms information cf importance-
December 24, 1796- A
50 Dollars Reward.
LOST, last evening, between eight and nine o'clock,
«s the lubfo'ihcr was going to his holife at the Falls of
Schuylkill, from the house of his father-in-law, Mr.
jVancis Stewart, in Sugar-alley, betwgen Sixth and Se-
above Market-street,
A black POCKET-BOOK,
Containing 1190 Dollars, in Bank-Notes
From 5 to 100 Dollars each,
One of which was of the Branch-Bank of New-York,
and several papers, futh as receipts and orders.— The
road the fubferibet fook, was the Falls road, crofEng at
the Upper Ferry.
Whoever finds the above Pocket-Book, and returns it
to the fubferiber at the Falls, or to bis father-in-law,
mr Stewart, living 1* Sugar Alley, shall be entitled to
the above reward, paid by
JAMES HAFFY
Feb. 3. §-
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE AND PRICE,
No. 79, Market-strisit, Philadelphia,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, a Urge afTortment «f WARRANTED
WAfCHES, confining of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with feronds, of superior
workmanship and elegance ; :0b capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jewell'd, capp'd,
seconds, day of the mtftith, and plain Silver Watches ;
.eight dav & chamber Clocks.; elegant French Clocks
with m. iule frames ; eight day and thirty honr, brass
works, 4cc.
' f>e.c£tßb<t n, 1796. d»m
For Sale,
By the Siibfcribers —In PENN-STREET, a j
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine, ok
Imported by the Eagle. cu '
WILLJNGS & FRANCIS. J
Nov. 30 w "j'.
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE. < ag
Na. 63 South Third tlr«et,oppofitethe national new Bank;
pAMUEL M FR AUNCES and JOHN VAN REED.
0 have entered into co-partnership, under the firm ot _
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commission merchants. They buy and
fell on commission eve»y species of llock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c. jn
MoNir procured on depolit«, icc. &c. all kinds c g t
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
iifpatch; accounts adjufled, and books fettled, in the w
most correct mnnner. Conllant attendance will be given. t0
They solicit a lhare of the public favor ; tjiey are deter
mined to endeavour to defcrve it. fe
N. B. Th« utmoll secrecy observed. U
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES, ol
JOHN VAN REED- ; B
>Philad. Autriift a 7, no 6. m&wtf tr
Will be publifhtd, on IVtdntfday next, ol
BY MelT- Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the other ol
Bookfeilers, price One Dollar and iwenty-five cents, flesa«l
ly printed on wove paper, and hot-pielied, by John Thomp- Si
son, 1«
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF u
The CONSTITUTIONS of the several States, ti
With each other, and with that of the United States;
exhibiting in Tables, the prom-incut features of eaeh Con
stitution, and classing together their most important pro
visions, under the several heads of admmiftration ; with
Notes and Observations. £y William Smith, of South-
Carolina, LL. D and member of the Congrel's of the
UnitcdStates. Dedicated to the People of the United
States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior paper, at
V4ths of a dollar. , February 6 mwf
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land, \
WELL situated, laying on and between Marsh a
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in f
four separate Patents. For terms ot sale apply t6 1 1
Wm. Blackburn, ; -
No. 64, Sfruth
January 16. rmvrtt j
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURNNo. 64, ,
South Secondflreet. I
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agiecably to an Aft ol
the of Pennfylvaaia, p.iffed during the lait
feiliofl. for building a Stone Bridge over the River 1
1 Sciuylkili, at the Borough of Reading, IB the County of
Berks. Dollars.
1 Priie of ao.ooo Dollars - »0,000 '
l do. of io,ooo do. - - 10,000 ;
3 do. of 5,00p do. • • 15,000
4 &6. of ijooe do. . - 8,000
io do. of 1,000 do. ... »0,000
39 do. of do. - - 1 9>5 00
So do. of 200 do. . . - 16,000
»oo do. of 100 do. - - ao,ooo
e £00 do. of s° " " >5i OQO
e 1 do. of SSO do. to be paid the poOeC. ) Q
for f the firft drawn no. J 0
5 do. of 8.800 do. to be paid pofleßbrs > lr L 3„
y Of the five last drawn oos
9,400 do. o 15 do* 3 - 14 1,00 c
• • '
10,054 Prize* joo,o«o
x 191946 Blanks
30, cOO Tickets at Ten Dollars 304,000
All Prises■fh*ll be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
e fuiilhed, upon the demand of a polfeflor of a fortunate
licket, fubjrft to a deduction of tWei.ty per ceut. The
Drawing will commence as foorwas the Tickets are disposed
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerfhntr, William IVttman,
Jufepb Hiejier, James Diemcr, Thomas Dundas,
fmnet May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel CraeJ\
jf Sebajlian Miller, Cgmmissiohe&s.
r, Reading, May the 9th, 1798
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. t, to be had at the
V» above offise, where the earlUft inlormation of the draw
•y ing of the Walhington No. a, and Pattcrfou Lottery's,
are received, ai\d check books for examination and rtgif
i n tering are kept.
at Tickets in the above Lottery to ba had at Mr, Sheri
_ dan's Race-street, John Hay, North Third-ltr-eet and
•11 Henry Sweyer's, Germaa Town.
' January 26 ?awtf
er Lottery and Broker' 6 Office,
No. 64., South Second strkst.
TICKETS m the Canal Lottery, No. a, for -Tale—a
Check for domination—and prizes paid in
, the late lottery.
" L Check Books kept for examination and registering, for
er the City of Walhington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
jn both of which are now drawing—information where
110 tickets ire to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public Schotjl "Lottery, for
examination.
The lubfcriber solicits the application of the pubKc
and his friends, who/wife to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
:k, Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
of &c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
Ir. Also Tickets in thq Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
ie- sale at Ten Dolkrs each, whieh will be drawn early in
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
gS Philadelphia, January a 6, 1797
---— ■■ ■ _ - . ■
Houses and Lots for sale,
IJ Y tke Sufcfcriber, in the town of Weft-Cheiler, Chef.
Xj ter county, 25 miles from Philadelphia, on the great
state-road, leading Westward- Viz. No. r. A two-story
Stone House, the corner of High and Gay streets, 40 feet
io ' front by 34 feat deep, including a very convenient llore
houfe : the House contains ten well-iiiiUiicd rooms, a kit
' chen and entry : the Lot is 144 feet front on Gay-ftrect,
—equal to any fland in We2-Chefler. No.j. A tvy'o-tlo
' ry stone hsufeadjoining, C 7 feet front, cdntaining eleven
w il-fiv.iihed rooms, both being ceiled in the garrets, house
and lot fame depth as the other, a kitchen, &c.—ocllars
under both houses, with good stables on the lots. JFhefe
Houses are almost new, done by good workmen, in .j
mallerly manner. No. 3. a Lot 41 feet front. No. 4,
,m 34 feet. -No- 5, 44 feet. No. 6, 119 feet, all of them
D ten rods deep. On two of the above are ereited three log
a nd trarae houses, two ftanies high, cellars under the
!0i" whole, and a small liable to each*
I'd The above Lots are situated near the Court-Houfe. The
'd, wl ole will be exposed to PUBLIC SALE, 011 the »ift and
■s ; 23d days of February next, at two o'clock, when the con
:ks ditions will be madfc known PolTellion may be had the
ass firft of April next. The Title is indisputable.
JOHN KINNARD.
January aS
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the lubfcriber onthe 43d Gclobar ' j
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSE&; a. year. ;
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a m»ud green
coat, with a green velvet cape and <rval yellow button, ,
a rtri r ed veil* a pair of dark spotted pantaloons and
whole boots much worn. It i. probable he may change
his name and dress. He has been accustomed te I —
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be ]
paid for lecuring him so that the fuhfcnUr may get h m
Lain, and if brought home all reasonable charge, paid ty j>
Robins Cbamberlattie. pa
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 1 iraaawtf
No- 170-
Dhlria if Pennfylvaitia, to wit. ° f
BE it remembered, that on the 14th day of January
in the tv/enty-fii Ity ar of independence of the United
States of America, John Thompson of the said diftnct,
hath dcpofited in this office the title of a Book, the right
whereof he claims as proprietor, in the words following „
to wit n • • ft.
" A Comparative View ef the Conuitutions 01 the
several States with each other, ane! with that of the
United Statts, exhibiting in tables the prominent Matures TS
of each Constitution, and classing together their moil
important provisions under the several heads of adnun'f- tv
tration : with notes and observations. By William omith a
of South-Carolina, u. n. and member of the Coigrefs t0
of the United States." 1
In conformity to the adt of the Coagrefs of the United
States, intituled " An Aift for the encouragement of
learning by securing the cooica of maps, charts and books,
to the authors and proprietors of such copies during tha
timis therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of theDiftrid e{ Pcnnfylvania
Feb. J. » w 3_
DANCING
TAB GUT BT
MRS. B r R N,
Of the New Theatre, To Ladies only.'
THINKING it a great advantage for them to have a
Fern,tie Tutor ill that art, pledges herfelf to their par
ents and friends to take allpoflible care in their inftmciion.
In addition to the Dances taught in Philadelphia, means
to teach the Minuet, Minuet Je la Cour, Allcmand, Gs- (
vot, Quadrilles, Strathspeys, and all Scotch Dances ; and
above ail to' pay particnlar attention to that very naceflury
v ittPoHtcAJJr.fs. For particulars enquire ps Mrs. Byrn, n
j No- 7onorthEigHth-ftreet. Februiy6 ajwftf
Samuel Richardet
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia;
The Subscription Room will be furmfhed with all the
> daily papers publiftiedin Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, togother with thole of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will We regularly h'led j
f and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, IceCreams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrelhmentSj
t will «t all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
3 the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
3 approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
3 The Larder will beTupplied with the priqae and oarlieft
5 productions of the Season.
3 Large and small Farties, or iingleGentlemen, may be
3 accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
3 hours most convenient to themselves—-a cold Collation is
3 regularly kept for conyemcncy, the Sill of Fare te be had
3 at ths bar.
3 The Lodging Rooms will be completely furniihjd, and
the utmolt attention pa'uitn rteinlinefs, and every other
t> requisite. ; -
SiMtrEj. Richar&kt will behappyto receive, and
3 execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
~ krge; and with tgratitude for their favours, he pledges
himlelf that nothing oil his part lhall be wanting »o pre
, fcrvc that patronage with which he has been so difcitiguilh
-0 ingly honored.
ij Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
1C Frejb Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
f. Roots, hfc. &c.
1, This day binding from the Ihip Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from London,
; And FOR SALE by
GOLD THWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Second-streets,
le A moll capital and sxtenjive AJfortment of
<■ GARDEN, GRASS aad FLOWER-SEEDS,
'*• ROOTS, See. &c.
Among which are,
Fi*e kinds Afparagtisj Tfirei kicda Crefles
*. Four Berecole Twelve Onion
1 Twenty-five Beans| Thirteen Radish
Six ' Beets Fifteen Turnip
Eleven Brocoli Fi'fteiß Peas
Twenty-si* Cabbage Six Savoy
Si* Carrot Four Parfnin
Three Cauliflower Twenty-three Melon
Five Celery Twenty-one Lettuce
-a Teg Cucumber
in Common and lemon Thyme
Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley
Or Pot Marygold Pot Marjorum
:s, Balsa Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
re Leek Kail Shallo-a
vn Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucern*
■v- Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. &c.
or With a curious -colleiSion of the most esteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the most extensive ever imported into this city.
'■ ■ The above are from a capital Seedsman in London, and
are warranted frefh and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above-
Dec. 17 5
in
Washington Lottery.
TIGKETS, warranted undrawn, may bffpurchafed or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chefnut
(>reet, where a corr*& Numerical Book is kept for public
infpedlion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for fait or ex
changed for prizes di awe in the Walhington Lottery, of
which the ,54th and sjth days returns ar* received.
:at :0* The Business of a Broker carried on as usual.
ir y January 12. ttstf
:et
Insurance Company of the State of
at, Pennfyivjmia.
to- OTICE is hereby given, that the directors have 4e
'en i\ clared a dividend of thirty dollars per lhare, on
"fe he bufmefs of the last fix months : which will be paid to
ars he Ilockholders or their legal after the
e fc loth instant.
a I SAM. W. FISHFR, Sic'v
4, Philadelphia, Feb. >d, 1797. dtioth.
S , Bank of Pennfylvanra,
• hc . , . January 4, 1797.
in( j At a meeting of the Diredlors th's day, a dividend of
!, n _ sixteen dollars on each (hare was declared for the last
the ® mont hs, which will be paid to the Stockholders af
ter the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Calhier.
J*n. 3. dtf.
iT> NOTICE.
r HE Sales "f LANDS of tfie United Statts, in the
iS. r orth-VVtftei-n foiirory, heretofore advertiled
in the several public papers, will commence this even
ing, aHhe City Tavern to be continued from day
to day, 'till the tenth of February next, if not foorier
fold. ' iSH
fanuary 4 9 _
Pennsylvania Population Company.
NOTICE is hereby giver., to such Share-holders
as hava ijot paid their aiTuffments on theirihares—te
pay the fame immediately to the Secretary of the Compa
ny, at the Company's Office, No. 53 north tfouith-ftreet,
Philadelphia. 1 hey are further informed, that in default
of paying the fame within .thirty days from the 4th of Fe- x
bruary, raftanr, the several forfeitures will be ftricSlly ex
ailed, in conformity to the 11 ft article of association.
By order of the Board,
SOL. Secretary
Feb, 2. 4— ii°
Washington Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifa4
the underwritten, to raise, twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of .Washington, frOAi th I*»]
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following-is the SCHEME of No.!.
Via -I Prize of ao,ooo dollars, 10,000 1
I ditto 10,000 10,000
TlSlS 1 } '
6 ditto 1,000 <j,ooo
IO ditto 400 4,000
t 20 ditto 100 »,000
55 dittp 50 2,750
5750 ditto 12 69,008
To be raised for tha Caeal, 26,150
5850 Prizes, *75,000
11650 Blanks, not twof.o a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
The Commiflioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aifl for the pnnitual payment of
the prizes.
The drawing as this, Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely ■
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th«
drawing is fniifhed, shall be conflderrd as relinquilhed for
the benefit ef the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed J NGTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
WM. M.DUNCANSON,'
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
I City of WathiDglon, Feb. 11. §
A PARCEL OF V£RY FINE
St. Croix Sugars and Rum,
JAMAICA SPIRITS, and
LAGUIji-A HIDES,
for Sale by
FA. 7.—JAMES YARD.
70 BE SOLD, ~
ThtTimeof a smart, afiive, young
Negro Wench,
BETWEEN 13 and 14 years of age, andjuft had the fmaU
[ For terms, apply at Mr, WILLIAM BAXfERs, ia
. iouth Front-stre e t, N0.'312, below Almond-street.
" "
1 A Quantity of Brandy,
i FIRST & »d proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-joints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different lize«
, Hazlentite, in sacks
Whiting
Jc Spauifti Brown J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4
This Day is Published,
By BIOREN 59* MADAN, at their Printing Office,
No. 77, Doek-ftreet, and fold by the principal
Bookfeilers iu this City.
, The American Annual Register ;
1 Or historical Memoirs of the United States, for the
h Year 1796.
p No. 167. v
lS Difirifl of Ptnnfylvania t to icit :
Y Be it remeiribered, that on the 19th day of January
" in the Twenty-firft year of the Independence of the
n United States of America, Bioren & Madan of the £iid
C difki& have depofifed in this Office the tide of a Book
the Right whereof they claim as Proprietors in the
words following to wit:
" The American Annual Register, or Historical
" Memoirs of the United States, for the year 1796.
In conformity to the aif} of the Congress of the
United States entituled " All z6i for the encourage
ment of learning by securing the cepies of Map%
Chart# and Books, to the authors and proprietors of
f»ch copies during the time therein mentioned."
Samuel Caldwell,
ic j Clerk Pennsylvania Diltrift.
January 2s, v iaw4
PURSUANT to a Resolve of the Board of Trustees of
Academy, in Somerset County, and
State of Maryland,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
)r That the ofljjice of Principal Teacher in the laid school Jif
t- vacant.
i c A GENTLEMAN qualified to teach the higher Greek and
x _ Xl Latin'Cladics, C-eography, and the Mathematics, with
0 f such other branches of literature as are usually taught in fueh
Cchools, would meet with liberal cneouragement, and, it is
believed, would obtain a very eligible settlement. For the
pre teat, the Trustees would We willing to contract with a p<*r»
Ton capable of taking charge of a Grammar School. ,
~Z. Asthis Institution is provided with buildings fufiicient to
)i accommodate the principal and his from feveniy ~ ,
t® eighty boysj; ajibrary, auexcellent philoiophical ana ma
thematical apparatus, globes, maps, See; has refpe&able
f* fund.s, and is situated iu a plentiful and agreeable part of the
country ; nothing ieems wanting to make it rank among the
to mofl ufeful femin&ries in fhis part of the Uriion, butafuuable ,
ae chara&er to pitfide in it.
Proposals may be addrefled to the fubferiber, in Princcfs-
Anne, in the neighborhood of the Academy, or to Do&or
Martin L Haynie, No. 83, north Third-street, Pnila
w delphia, or to the Pi inter hereof.
EZEKIEL HAYNIE.
January 20. Feb. 7. tu&fSw
Of . ~'m "i ■ ■ " ■ ■■ ■
if 1 PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO
—No. 119 —
CH E SHUT-STREET.
[Pricc Eight Dollars ]?«r Annum,]