of tijc and Philadelphia baity Advertiser,
Numbrr 1484 j
For St. Thom as,
THE SHIP
Ann and Mary,
Captain Billis s
: • *=— WILL fail in ten day 6. For
freight or paflage ar>plt to
* F, COPPINGER.
N». 221, South Front Jlreet.
June 9. diot
' a ' e '
AC T J^v K >
* -• ri'i.vf-iiOn the 20th inft. at the Coffee-
House, at 7 o'clock, P. M, as (He Came from (ea :
stir is known to be a faft sailer. Any particular in
formation may be had on application to Cape. Bing
ham on boaid fald brig, at MclT Jefle and Robert
Wain'* Wharf, to John Plankinhoro, or Thomas
Stcwait. Inventory to be seen and terms of pay
ment to be made known at the time-os sale.
June 8. tf
For London,
Rti&Sl THE SHIP
WILLIAM PENN,
James Jojiah, Mnjltr.
WILL fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or pafTage apply to
Jeffe Robert Wain.
May 19 §
For Sale,
7he cargo of I he brig Entrrprize, Captain
1 Lang Jimfrom Bourdeaux, now landing at
Morton'l wharf,
COftSITING OF
524 hhds. of Claret 1 S
217 cases of ditto |-c j?
100 cases of Sweet Oil -P
Apply to
Wharton & Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
jrSaid Brig,
WILTj ,ake a FREIGHT for
the Weft-Indies or Europe, fails
Ljj'-CS, faft, burthen about fifteen hun-
SsSKsSiSssSdred barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply as above.
May 24 §
For Sale or Charter,
« THE SHIP
WARREN,
Benjamin Church, Majler.
about »8o tons burthen. En
1. quire of
"Jeffe Ss 3 Robert Waln-
May 26 §
JohnTarris, matter.
A GREAT part of her cargo is engaged, and
she will fail in ten days. For freight orpal
fage apply to capt. Tarris, at Willings & Francis'
wharf, or to GURNET & SMITH.
May »j §
For Freight or Charter,
To any part of Europe,
The Siuedifh Ship
Alexander Magnus,
Capt. Carl G. Ehsman,
A BOUT 350 ton* borthen, in this port ; a*d
Xi. also the Daaidi Ship FREDERICK JULIUS
KAUS, of 450 tons, now lyine in Hampton Uoads.
Apply to JOHN VAUGHAN.
May 26. tuthf6t
For Freight or Charter,
| Brig Fame,
i J FR ANCIS KNOX, Mafler:
A strong, excellent vessel, has Seen just fheathedand
ready to receive a cargo. She will carry 2,000 bar
rels, has good accommodations so paflcngers.
Apply to
Capt. Knox, or to
Kearny Wharton.
Jure 6. 6p
Houfhold Furniture.
-\TOW felling by private lale, No. i7Dock
ftreet —confiftiug ot chairs, tables, looking
jrlaffes, buriaus, hand and fire irons, bedsteads,
leather-beds, carpets, bedding, window curtains,
bed and table linen, kitchen furniture, &c. The
whole in good order, and has only been a few
months in ute.
The sale to continue daily 'till the whole is fold.
J»uc 2 §
This Day is Published,
And fold by H. 1$ I. Kammerer, jun. No.
24, North Third-Jlreet, also, by Mr. Hen
it StrsiTZEK, No. 85, Race-Jlreet,
(Priceb«lf a Dollar neatly boundj
The Man of real Sensibility;
Or, The HISTORY OF SIR G. ELLISON.
Founded on fad.
|£3" The elegant Edition of the Elementsej Moral.
It), m two vols, illu ft rated with twenty copper
plates, miy al ( o be had as above, price, full bound
and gilt, two dollars and fifty cents.
H & I. K. junrs. have on hand a quinty of No. t
and 2 Writing Paper.
June 8. «>.3P
HAY.
A Quantity of eicellent Old and New Hay to
bciiad at Peel Hall Farm on the WilTahickon
Road, about a miles from the City.
AIK A QUANTITY OF BUILDING STONE.
June 8 . S6t
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any *ther in
' the City—
OF FAMOUS SIZES,
Fiom Bby 610 19 by 14,1
_By the single Box or Quantify, may be had at tht
S ore of the Subscribers, comer ol Arcb.aod Front-
Arret.
'James C. y Sarr.nelTT. Fijher.
Philadelphia, J j«w3, 1797. mwfif
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, JUNE 10, 1797.
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & ad proof,
C'm, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhd9
Old Hcck, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumbler?, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, as different lizes
Hazlenuts, in faiks
Whiting
Copperas ( . ~ , '
White Lead f ,n hhds
& Spanish Brown J
For Sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
Tannary 4 §.
Rofs Sc Simfun,
Have for Sale,
A OF PRIME
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Lilbon Wine in Pipey
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Calks
A few Quarter Chefls belt
Frelh Hyson and ) . c
Hyson Skin j 1 tAb
Muscovado Sugars in Hoglhcitds, and
Coffee in Tierces
March 7. ||tf
To be Sold at Public Vendue, -
At the Merchants' Coffee house, in Philadelphia,
on the 15th 4ay of June, at 8 o'clock in the
evening, if not before disposed of at private
falc,
40,931 1-2 acres of land, on the
waters of Wheeling and Fi<hing creeks, in Wash
ington county, Pennsylvania. The foil is remark
ably fe*ile ; andbefides a large body of meadow,
there are considerable improvements on the pre
mifes. These lands were patented in 1787. On
payment of part of thepurchafe money, a r-afon
abli credit will be given for the re&due. Enquire
of the printer.
May 15. §tS
Richard Bayley & Co.
Late John Whitesides & Co.
No. 136 Market Jlreet,
HAVE received per the (hips William Penn arjd
Star from London, a large and faihlonable as
sortment of the following articles : viz.
Chintzes, and princed Cottons, of the newest
patterns
Furniture Dimities and Chintzes
Ginghams, plain and figured,
Muslins, printed and embroider'd
Do. tambour'd, plain, check and (Irip'd
Do tamboured, of a very superior quality
Fine Book, Jaconet and Decca Handkerchiefs
Dimities and muflinets
Damaflc table-linen, in setts and in the piece
Diaper ditto in Cloths and in ditto
Holland and Ruflia Sheetings
Loop'd Hollands a~d Irish Linens
Long Lawns and Cambrics
Sattins and Silks, plain and figured
Ribbons and Gloves
Crapes and Gauzes
Straw, Chip, and Paper Hats and Bonnets, new
shapes
Fancy trimmings, &c.
With a variety of articles in the Lieen-Drapery
and Haberdalkery line.
May 11 §»ot
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Chejnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS Beatly assorted, very low on
fliort credit.
March 6. §
PennfylvaniaPopulation Company.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Share Hold
ers, that a further assessment of njn e dol
lars is levied on each share, payable as follows,
viz.
Six Dollars immediately, and
Three Dollars on the iftof July next.
Which they are requelted to pay to theTreafu
rer of the Company, at the Company's Office,
No. 53, North Fourth-street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed, that on their neglefling to pa the
fame as above directed, the fevtra lforfeitures
will be exadled.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MAKACHE, Trejfurer.
May I?.. d^ot
Just Arrived,
In the schooner Dove, Captain Paul, from St
Thomas, and for sals by the fubferiber.
Muscovado Sugar in hhds- tierces and barrels.
St. Croix Rum in hhds.
And Laguira hides.
ALSO ON HAND)
Imperial, Hyson, and Sherry and Malaga
Hyl'on Skin Teas. Wines.
Yellow Nankeens. Holland Gin in pipes.
Canton CUth. Do. Cheese.
Lutellrings. Do. Glass ware.
Silk Hankerchiefs. China Ware.
Sewing Silk. Window Blinds.
Cotton in bales. Rheubarb. (
Peruvian Bark. Quicksilver, &c.
JOSEPH SIMS.
May 22d. dt4t.
Grattan and Comp.
REfpeAfully inform their friends, that they have
in,purtei from London per the (hip Star, a
large affortnieiit of
PERFUMERY,
Which isnow opened for sale at their House, N*.
192 Market-street.
Also, a new affoitujcnt of ready-made gentle
men's linen, {him from 1 dollars each to 8 dollars,
&c. &c. dee.
- and gentlemen are accommodated with
board and lodging at ten Dollars each.
Tnofe Gentlemen who have their own private
lodging*, may be accommodated with dinner only,
by the week or month.
Jane f it
The Subscriber,
Determined to retire from business, invites all
who have anv no?e, bill, bond or acceptance
of hi., sow due, to call for payment ; and thole
who wish to anticipate may receive the money
at a reasonable difcoulit.
JAMES SWAN.
Ma j" 12. dxw.
Dorjheli;r, ctarßcftoa, i«th May 1797.
By John Fenno, N o ' 119 Cbefnut Street.
NOTICE.
THE co-partncr (hip of William John Mills,*
and John Mi'ls, jun. Btoolcicllcrs aiid Stationers, un
der the firm of W, Young, Mills and Son, is this
day diilolv&d by mutual content. Allptrfons indebted
to the copartneiihip are requested to make payment
to William Young, and thole having demands are de
sired to produce their accounts fbr fettle/nent.
William Toung,
john Mills,
John Mills, jun.
Philadelphia. Tune 6th, 1707.
W. YOUNG
Continues the bookselling and ftationa*y business at
tht usual place, wholesale and retail, where he has
now a very lai'ge assortment of
Writing and Printing Papers and Hooks,
Of which catalogues with the prices affixed are de
livered gratis-
Wanted,
A person well qualified in the bookselling and fla
tionary business. Applications will be received till
the firft July next, at No. 52, louth Second-iticet,
corner of ChcCout-llrect.
June '6. djp
The fubferibers, have for sale, the
following Goods, viz :
OLD Madeira Wine, in pipes.
Port do. inpipes, hogsheads & qr. calks.
Malaga do. in hogsheads and ijr. calks.
Sherry do. in quaiter calks.
Claret do. of excellent quality in bottles.
Uullia Duck. v
Do. Diiptrand Huckaback.
Coarse Toweling.
Ifing Glass, firft fort.
Rufiia white Soap, cut in ftnall bars.
Mould Candles, in boxes of 6olb weight.
London Perter, in bottles.
100 barrels of good beef.
A wrought-iron Book Cafe.
PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co.
Philadelphia, 2d June, 1797. d.
Just Received,
From Batavia (via Province)
170 Sacks of Java Coffee of firft quality
aco half sacks do. do.
a few Boxes of Spices, confiding of
Nutmegs, Cloves aad Mace
For sale by
WILLINGS CS" FRANCIS,
Pemwftreet.
May 30 dtf
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sharehold
ers, that a further alTeiTment of fifteen
dollars i* levied on each lhare, payable in the
following instalments—viz.
One quarter immediately.
One quarter on the ill of June.
One quarter ou the ill September.
One quarter on the ift Dec. next.
Which they are requefteil topay to the Trea
surer of the Company at the Company's Office,
No. S3 north Fourth street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed that on their neglefliag to pay the
fame as above directed, the several forfeitures
direiled by the Cohftitution, Willi be exafled.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE,
Treasurer.
May 15 §im
To be Sold,
A large and convenient
Three Story Brick House ;
SITE! \TE at the north-east corner of Arch and
Founth-ftreets. t It contains eighteen rooms—
and is in every respect well finilhed. For particu
lars enquire of '
M. Keppele,
No. tj8 fc Chcfnut-ftreet.
May 31. §
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 Sou:h Second street,
f Price 31 Cents J
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskinc.
May 1 <; $
Maurice Moynihan,
No. Blt North SecondJlreet,
A few doors above Arch-street,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
for wholesale or retail, on the lowest terms, a
general assortment ef Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
tumbl«rs, plain and flowered quart, pint, half pint
gill and half gill do. exafl measures, decantors and
wine glalTes ; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint
bowls, and china in sets and separate ; pocket
bottles : Schuyikill and Jersey country quart and
half gall.'n bottles; Dry Goods, &c. &c.
N. B. Crates put up with care at the Ihortell no
jice.
May 11. 1 dtf
~ JOHN CRAIG
HAS just imported from Rotterdam, via St.
Thomas, ar.d for sale on reasonable terms
by the package
Platillas Royal
llaerlem and German linens
Rouens
Poll and ProPitrii Paper
Wafers
Quills
Oziera for Hoop», in Bandies
Coffee Bags
He has also for Sale,
Bell Red Clover Seed
Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate life
Teneriffe Wine of lirft and second Quality •
Coffee in Bags and Hogsheads
Jamaica Spirits
Conneflicut Turpentine 'Soap
Window Olafs
Two Trunks of bed Patent, Silk and Cotten
Hosiery
April 18. 4-aw
. . WANTED,
ABQUT 130 tons of freight, for any pert
in Spain, or the Mediterranean in a neu
tral bottom. Enquire of JAMES YARD
! June 7'. 7'
NOW LANDING,'
From on board of the ship GEORGE BAR
CLAY, Capt. Charles iVi'Alkster, froin
Calcutta, the following GOODS, vie.
Coflas Punjum Cloths
Hummums Gurrahs ,
Guzeenahs India Calicoes
F.mertits Cotton Checks
Mamoodiss Mulmuls
Sahans Red-and Elue Eernagou
hkfs
Tickeries Patna do.
Jollas Santipovc do.
Carridarrits Plain, striped and flower
ed fine muslins
Maragnngcs Ginghams
Baftas, various forts
Sat.tin Romals Bandanno red hks.
ALSO,
300 Casks Sugar
40 Boxes do.
165 Bags do.
70,000 lb. weight heavy black Pepper
40,000 lb. weight Ginger
20 Tons Hemp in Bales
9 Pipes East-India Spirits
For sale by PHILIPS, CRAMOND tf Co.
May 4. dtf
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
(Neatly bound and lettered, priceadols. 25 cts.) !
By G. DECOMBAZ,
BOOKSELLER & STATIONER,
No, 48, North Third Street,
7he Adventures of Telemachus.
French and Englilh, z vols. tamo.
AMONG the books which daily fall into the
hands of the yeuth of both sexes, none
have a higher claim to their attention than Tele
machus. she most interesting lelfons are here
conveyed in the vehicle of an lntereltinyj Poem,
replete with the fnieft touches of the true pa
thetic, and embellfhed with all the graces of a
beautiful llyle. The fatal effefls of indulging
the pafiions are exemplified in the molt linking
manner ; and the happiness attending inno
cence and virtue painted in the liveliest colours.
Whatever can incite to virtue or deter from
vice ; whatever can enlighten the understand
ing, charm the imagination, and improve the
heart, is to be found in this interesting work.
THE NAVAL~GAZETTEER;
Being a complete Geographical Didtionary,
containing a full and accurate account, alpha
betically arranged, of all the countries and isl
ands in the known world ; lhowing their lati
ude, foundings, and stations for anchorage ;
with a particular description of the several Bays,
Capes, Channels, Coves, Creeks, Currents,
Gulfs, Harbours, Havens, Lakes, Oceans, Ra
ces, Rivers, Roads, Rocks, Sands, Shoals,
Sounds, Straits, Tides, Variation of the Com
pass &c. Together with a particular relation
of the lhape and appearance at sea, of the seve
ral Headlands, Ilihrniiles, Peninsulas, Points,
Promontories, and whatever is of use or impor
tance to the Mailer, Pilot, Commander, or
Seaman ef any Ihip or vessel, in navigating the
watery element.
Also Comprehending
Ample Directions for tailing into or out of the
different Ports, Strait?, and Harbours of the
four quarters of the world ; and for avoiding
dangers on the various and extended coasts ; in
whieh more than twelvethoufanddiftinft names
of places, are treated of and explained. With
a correil set of Charts, i vols. 2vo. price 6 dols.
By the Uev. JOHN MALHAM,
£5" This has been pronounted the mod ufe
fulandthe cheapest book publilhed in America.
June 9. dtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureani refpeft, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
she has received during four years residence in
Philadelphia ; and affurcs her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
lchooi, Ihe has made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars. —Every branch of ufeful aud polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and mailers excelling in their
refpedlive profeffions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797- Jiraftf
The fituatUn is perfectly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an exteufive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
For Sale,
ON board the (hip Mollv, John Frost, master
from Liverpool, laying at Walnut-street wharf
6000 bushels of fine ftoved Salt,
And QUiiEN'S WARE, well adortcd,
By PHILIP NICKLIN tf Co.
WHO HAVE IN STORE, ALSO FOR SALE,
100 Boxes WhiteHavanna Sugari
Hyson* 1 and j T 6 A S
17 tubs Q_uickfilver
2 chests Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chells Manchester Goods well assorted
in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, niufliuets,
dimities, &c. 2 Trunks black sewing (ilk,
180 Crates queens ware, well assorted,
10 Tons Iheet lead,
Nails assorted, flat and Iharp points,
London particular and \ Madeira Wine in
India market ) pipes and hhds.
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Tenerifte Wine,
10 pipes choice Port ditto,
31 calks yellow paint,
7 boxes 12 bundles writing dates,
I box ink-stands & note presses,
Sail canvas assorted No. I 18.
May 4. dtf
Millinery Room,
No. 156 Market Jlreet.
MISS CHRYSTAL
'"P'AKES an early opportunity of acquainting
A her Friends that lhe has received by the
William Penn, a variety of NEW MIL
LINERY, &c. which she hopes to be able to
fliew them in a fciv days.
May 18 s3ot
A FEW EOXES OF
Bologna Sausages,
Of A 'SUHRW QUALITY,
To be fold at Nc. 199 Scutb Frcnt-Itrree.
April jo, e «tf
I The Commiflioners
FOR carrying into cffc<2 the TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendftiip, Limits,
aild Navigation, between His Catholic Mrf'jefty
Sad the United States of America, hereby give in
formation to all Persons therein concerned, rhdT,
ill order t« terminate a<] differences, on account cf
the lefles sustained by the Citizens of the United
States, in consequence of tteir Vessels and Car
goes having h-cn taken by the Subjeits of His Cath
olic IJajcfty, during the late War between Spain
and France, that they are ready to receive (at rhrir
Oflicc, between the hours of ten and one o'clock,
daily) all complaints and applications, authorized
by the said Article, during Eighteen Months,
trom the day of the date hqrecf, and that they have
power to examine all such persons as tome before
tlittn, oa oath or affirmation, touching the com
plaint* in quellion, and also to receive in evidence,
•ill written testimony, authenticated in such riaH
ner as they Hi all think praper to require or admit.
By Order of the CommiJJiotters,
PETER LOHRA,
Secretary.
C mmijwners Offire, A o.' i os, Mulherry
reet, Philadelphia, May i ~tb, 1797.
ao—•
The Commiifioners
IpOR carrying into ejTeil tile sixth article of the r'
treaty of amity, commerce and navigation, toft -
eluded between his Britannic majeftyand thoJßiiit'cd
States of America, on the 19th day of November,
1794, having this day cor.ftitated their Hoard,
pursuant and agfeeaMy to the said treaty, do here
by give notice, that they are ready to proceed to
business accordingly; and they desire that all claims
under the said article (which so far asthe fa.iie de
scribes the cases thereby provided for, is hereunt»
annexed) may be lodged with their Secretary with
out delay.
They further desire that all such claims may ntt
only state in what manner the f?veral czfes come
within the description of the said article, but also
specially set forth .he nature of the evidence by
which the claimants refpedtively undertake tefub
ftantiate the fame.
Exjrail from the said article,
" Whereas it is alledged by divers BrkiJh mer
" chants, and ethers his majesty's fubje<Sb, that
" debts to a confid rable amount, which were boni
" fide contracted, before the peace, still remain
" owing to then! by citizens or inhabitants of the
" United States; and that by the «peration of va
" rious lawful impediments, since the peace, not
" onjy the full recovery of the said debts has teen
II delayed, but also the value and security thereof
" have been in several instances impaired and lcff
" ened, so that by the ordinary course of judicial
" proceedings, the British creditors cannot now
" obtain and actually have and receive full and
" adequate compensation for the losses and damat
" ges which tney have thereby fuf ained: It is a
" greed thac in all such cases where full compenfa
" tion for such losses and damages cannot for what
" ever reason be atftually obtained, had and recei
" ved by the said creditors in the ordinary 'course
" of justice, the United States will make full and
" complete compensation for the fame to the said
" creditors: but it is diftinfliy understood, that
" this provision is to extend to such losses only as
" have been occasioned by the lawful impediments
" aforefaid, and is not to extend to losses.occasion
" ed by such insolvency of the debtors or other
" causes, as would equally have operated to pro
" duce such loss, if the said impediments had not
" existed ; nor to fueh losses or damages F3 have
•• been occasioned by the manifeft delay, ornegli
'• s,eticc, or wilful omission of the claimant."
By order of the hoard,
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secretary.
Philadelphia, Commiflioners' Office,
No. 3 south Sutk-ftreet, May 29,
1 797- J 6-§im
rHE SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
the Envoy Extraordinary and Miniller Pleni
potentiary of his Britannic Majefly, General Agent
lor affixing Britilh creditors, and such particular »-
gents at they way specially authorize, in prosecuting
their claims before the csmmiffioners for carrying in
to efi dt ibe sixth article of (he Treaty of Amity, Com
merce and Navigation between his Jiritannie MmjeJly and
the United StaUt »f America, hereby -gives nonce that
he has opened hit offi e at his house the south ealt
corner of Chefnut and fifth streets, Philadelphia,
where he is ready to receive all c 1 aim lor inttruilions
tor claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
tor the purpose of bringing forward the fame agree
ably so the rules and otdcrs which the boaid may
tfcink proper to prescribe.
And as it will be for the interest of all concerned,
that the several claims be so lljted, and support
ed, as to prevent the delay which would aiife from
the neceffityof obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials,from persons rcfiding at a diflance,
the general agent ihinks it hi> duty to add, (for the
direction chiefly of those, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the ptofecution of
their claims to his charge and management) that all
such claims ought in particular to set forth—
ill. The proper dufcrip ion arid fitnation of the
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, reflect
ively.
«d. The date or nature of l*e original contract or
debt.
3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant w«s prevented or impeded,
by the provifioa, operatioo or defe& of law, the
decision* and practice of courts, or restraint of exe
cution, from recovering payment of the debt in
question.
4th. The lok and damage incurred or sustained,
in confpquence of luch impediments, whether the"
fame may have arifeo from the infolveuey, change of
iituation, or death of the debtor, the lof# of legal
lemedy from lapse of time, or othercaufes impaii log
the value and security of the debt, which would noc
have so operated if such impedimenta had notenifted*
Ands<h. The pauitttl**>grounds and reasonS on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treaty, that 4i by the ordinary course of judicial pro
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and a&uai!/
have and receive full ai.d adequate compensation" for
the lodes and damages so fuHaiued.
The general agrni thinks it his duty further to f«g
geft that the f'vera! claims ought to be accompanied
and fupportcd-by the affidavits of the claimants duly
tworn and regularly atiefted, b&th as to theexiflence
of the debts cfaimcd, and such other clrcumftancei
as may be wifhm their own knowledge refpetHvely.
And whercyer the claimants in dating the -nature cf
their evidence (which mult in every instance be the
best of which the cafe is capable) have occafton to
user to thejeftimony of witftetfes, it will be proper
to appritr the general agent of the names aud places
of residence of mrh witneffei and the fa&sto be elU
bliftcd' by thcii teftimfmy.*
Wm, Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June 8 h, 1797. ditn
New-England Rum,
In Hcv(ht»d» and Barrels, for sale by
EZEKIEL HALL.
Jaae 7. *t.
m
[Volume XI.%i)t tfasettc.
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY E FEN INC, JUNE to.
C-iptain Merrihew, of the (liip Mount Ver
non, has favored tts with the followirig
account of the different spoliations com
mitted on the trade of the United Spates
. by French privateers, which came imme
diately within his own knowledge during _
(lay at the port of St. John's, Porto
Rico, and which can be attciled also, by
a number of other citizens of America,
who had the misfortune to be carried in
there. Merck. Adv.
Captured by the privateer Vengeance; the
fchr. , Loring Tabcr, master, belong
ing to Bolton ? bound to Jamaica, and fertt
to St. Domingo. The mate and several of
the crew of (aid fchr. were put on shore at
3t. John's, destitute of every neeeiTary, be
ing plundered even ot their wearing apparel,
the mate toek sick a few days after and di
ed, the expences of his interment, See. was
defrayed by the different American cap*
tains.
The ftiip Hope of Bolton, John Seivard,
Jr.ifter, was captured by the pilot boat De
mocrat, in a few hours 'after leaving the isl
and of St. Thomas's. This vessel was load
ed with doffee and cotton at Surinam, and
bound so Boston, since condemned.—Capt.
Seward was kept a prisoner on hoard the
privatter Democrat, for fix days after her
arrival, and was it not for the very spirited
exertions used by some American captains
and others, he would not even then have ob
tained his' liberty.
Captured and brought into port, and since
condemned, the- fchr. Delight, of Penob
fcott, Mark Hatch, matter, bound from
Barbadoes to fomeport in the United States,
the captain and crew turned on shore at St.
John's, destitute of both money and cjoathes,
being pillaged.
Captured and brought into port, and con- ■
demned, by the privateer Vengeance, the
Brig Two Sifters of Baltimore, capt. Hub
bard, bound from Montferrat to the island
of Thoma3, the captain plundered of his
wearing apparel, and every other necessary
belonging to himfelf and crew.
Captured and bro't into port, the barque
Susan of Biddeford, Smith, master,
bound from St. Vincents to North Carolina.
Capt. Smith and his crew turned on shore
(though they solicited much, without eff°£l,
to be left in the barque) where they remain
ed at the town of St* John's, at a very hea
vy expence to wait the iflue of the barque's
tryal at Guadaloupe, which finally arrived
about the middle of May. Verdidt of the
Trench tribunal, cargo condemned, vefTel
cleared, but the barque's register, sea letter,
and all her other papers, destroyed, or made
away with, by the captors, and the vefTel so
much pillaged by them, as not to be in a
state to return to the continent.
Capt. Smith applied to Mr. Paris the
French marine agent at Porto Rico, to afTril
him to put the barque in such a condition as
would enable him to return in her to Bidde
ford, but without any redress or effect ;
capt. Smith was therefore neceflitated to
purchase the American schooner Delight,
which was condemned, in the purchase of
which he was joined by capt. Strong, and five
or fix different captured American masters
and mates, being the only alternative they
had left to return to America.
Brought into the port of St. John's by a
French privateer, the mate and crew of a
schooner belonging to Boston, whom they
turned on shore without a second shirt or
jacket, or a single dollar in his pockets.
This schooner, name forgotten, was owned
at Boston, and commanded by captain Dtin-
Itendorff, loaded at Tobago, and bound to
Boston—cleared.
Brought into port, by the privateer Tri
umphant, the brig , of Baltimore, John
Fry, master, bound from Baltimore to St.
Bartholomews. After several days deten
tion, and loaded with innumerable expen
ces, he was with difficulty cleared, but on
a ftipuhted condition of entering into a
Written obligation, to acquit the owner and
captain of the privateer from all costs and
damages.
Capt. Williams, of the fchr. , be
longing to Norfolk, and his people, were
brought to St." John's by the privateer Ven
geance, and turned on shore without a dol
. lar in their pockets. They sent the schooner
for trial to St. Domitfgo, where she was
soon condemned, under a pretext of her not
having either register or sea letter, which
the captain of the privateer was base enough
to del-toy ot conceal.
Takon by the privateer brig Vengeance, and
since condemned, the Ihip William, of Portland,
RfcbrrtStrong master, boond from St.K:ttsto
Portland. In a few nights after theeap'ureol
faitl ship, the mate of her, and one Tailor and
the cabin bey, whom the privateer permitted
t* remain onboard, took an opportunity, whil<
the French prize master and eight Frenchmen
ere napping, or off their guard, to rife mi
them and retake thelhip. *ln theconflifl, whit k
lifted a considerable time, the French prize
mafUr and two of the Frenchmen were killed
and three ethers badly woonded, but unfortu
nately, the next 'day the (hip William was me
near Porto Rico ard retaken by the French pn
vateer Eagle, both from the crew and owntrj
ofyrivatecif, the brave and intrepid America;
Mate and Mariner experienced.every dearer o
cruel, unmanly and favape difgraiefu
to be related of Frenchmen, —those two beli
and brave fellows were sent in a few days afie
to fland their trial before a French tribunal, t.
St. Domingo, in an open boat, double ironei
on both Tegs and hands, and if report said «
spoke truth, with orders to thrftw tliem bot
e»eiboard, if the bnat was rbafrd by an liiig
lifh t tuifcr j the American riptairs and oilier
preVented a spirited ami humane memorial t
the Spatiifb governor of Porto Uico. Don Ra\
riiundo de Caflrn,—rrprrfrnting thofe'men;
American Aibjefls anJ praying that thtV m : gl
be tried by ?par.i(h laws, but to which!
never deigned to return an anf-vcr.
" Bfought in by the privat.er Vthgeirte, tb
fit*,a n»r « - ■, Oapt. Jenes'ofßono:!; who it
fold Irflca.-ga at Guadal and porchtftd a v
return c'aigo there, Dound for BaJloa, Captain j
Jones wai met by an cruif.r and car*-
ried into St. Kitts, where after trill, he was '
aeqvvtted and p rmlttedto proceed on his voy
age 'O Boston, but was tuet ia a few days altt; -
by the above privateer Vengeance, and mettly t
under the pretext of Capt. Jones fating at a ifri- (
tifh island he was again c;p'.t)ie*!» from whole •
clutches he was glad to get clear as erJevcrai (
dayi detention, paying lie..vy port thirjes and
otl>er txpenies, andiiting plundered oi all his
Hock and fmail stores.
Brought in by the L'l fpeigle ptiViteer, and i
since condemned, the brig Nabby of Hartford, ,
bound from Antigua to Mew-York loaded with
rum, sugar and coffee.
Alio the (loop Hannah of Milford, since cm
demncd, bound to Ne«-York loaded uitli lu-
andmolaft'ts from Martinieo.
Brought in by the privateer Triumphant, the
brig Ceres of N'ewbern, James Moore matter,
loaded with lumber for Trinidad, so little re
gard had the owner or captain of tlii» privateer
to laws, cuflom or usage, that they (tripped the
brig Cries entirely of her Ihrowds and part of
her running rigging and spars, with which tl*ey
again fitted out the privateer, though ihe brig
Ceres's condemnation had not arrived when the
ship Mount Vernon left Porto Rico.
Drought in by a Row Boat and eight men,
andonefwivel gun ; the Snow Harmony, ot
Kennebunk, Burnham master, bound from
Barbadoes home, with rum ; the owner of ih:s
(privateer, Mons. M. Mallert fold the cargo in*
I a few days after, and the vessel iu about four
weeks after her arrival, though no condemna
tion for her had yet come to hand.
Captured and brought in by the l'£ipcig!e
privateer, the ftlip Kitty; belonging to Mr.
Coppinger of Philadelphia, bound from the
Isle of France to laid port, loaded with coffee,
sugar, cotton, indigo and bale goods.
Captain M'Fherfon and Mr. Cox, the super
cargo of the above ship were eonfined on board
without even having permission to converse or
fee a single individual diredlly or indiredlly,
or to corrcfpond with the Ihore by letter ; they
at length found means by the aid of Mr. Bayly
an interpreter to have a ltrong or urgent remon
strance l'ating their grievances, drawn up, and
presented to the Govtrnor don Kaytnundo de
Castro, but to which his excellency never re
turned an answer, and finally when the island
was beliegcd by the Britilh, they were taken
from on Board the Ihip, with the crew and
I clcfely confined in prison, where they yet lan
guifli without any profpedl of being liberated,
S uulefs by the interference of the executive of
! their country. Five seamen of the above ship
1 Kitty, all citizens of America and with protec
tions in their pockets, were put on board the
Spanish frigate Juno, to be sent to the Havan
nah, and treated as linglifh prisoners of war ;
this extraordinary circumstance happened on
the morning of the day, on which the ship
Mount Vernon was to fail, therefore no time
was to be lolt to rescue those poor fellows from
such a dreadful situation; a strong and urgent
representation was made in their favour by
some American captains and others, that they
might be put on board rhe Ihip Mount Vernon,
which was at length granted, but not until the
very inltant that the Ihip Mount Vernon was
' weighing anchor, vdien the poor fellows arri
ved from on board a guard boat troin the Span
ish frigate J jno. . .
Some days previous to the ship Mount Ver
non leaving Porto Rico, there were thirteen
American tailors brought to the town of St.
i John's, under a guard of soldiers. from the
l weft end of the island, and put into close prison
where there were no less than 50 negroes con
, fined. Those men wiere all American citizens
and had each of them a proteaion, being part
of the crews belonging to the brig Induftiy of
1 Boston, Joseph Ryder master, bound from De
marara to Boston, and ot the schooner Betiey,
; W. Sturges from Trinidad, and the ship In
, duftry, Robert Oram mailer, of Portsmouth
(Newhampfhire,) all taken by a privateer and
f- carried into Cape Rook.
IFire American captains being made acquainted
with the dreadful iituation that ihefe poor fel
> • lows were in, dofely confined in afmall cell, and
the weather then extremely sultry, presented a
remonstrance to the governor for their liberation,
which was granted, after their being eonfined in a
loathsome prison nine days, but on condition that
1 they would pay the goal fees and that they Ihould
take them on board their different veiicls off the
• Island. .
These thirteen mariners all agree in their differ
ent accounts of what Captain IVierrihew heard re
ported before, at the town of St* Johns, that the
French privateers had % taken within a ihort time
} several other American vessels and brought them
into the different ports of the south and weft part
of the Island of Porto Rico. -Some of the captains
to the number of five or fix as well as the crews of
those vessels took their passage in a Danilh barque
' bound to St. Croix from Capeßooke, it being the
" best opportunity that presented for them to
- return home after losing their vessels.
1 Captain Merrihew cannot conclude his recital
without mentioning a matter that has> happened to
1 him and the other American vessels at the port of
1 St. Jehr.s, during the early part of the ficge of that
town, by the Britilh, on which he .will not pre
' tend to comment, but leave it to an impartial pub
lic t®draw what inference they think proper irom
e so extraordinary a circumstance.
On the fourth or [fifth day of the liege the Eri
" tilh brought leveral mortars to bear on,the town,
" and on the (hipping in the harbour, which of con
r • fcquence induced the (hipping for tteir prefervati
,B I on to remove to a greater difttnee round a point
• of land, in performing which as is always cuftoma
-1 ry, five or fix American vessels then ia port hoilted
their colours, to prevent the Briuib firing or annoy*
" ing them while they were thus aiixiowllj employed
in removing their vessels to a place of lafcty. ihe
d neceflity ofhoifting their American colours was e-
l f vident as the French prize master of the American
o (hip Kitty of Philapdphia was nearly inflrumental
>f in the lofsof the Ihip ; (he being tired at and ftrutk
d by a (hell, which went through the quarter deck,
d but fortußately happened to lodge in a barrel ol
[ e rice, which choaked the Fuse for the moment, un
n til the people extinguished it without furthei
n damage t« the (hip—rbut in about an hour after
k ! the captain of the port, Don Hurtado came oo
board the Mount Vernon, and every other Amen-
J" can vessel and demanded in the most haujhty tont
' of language, their vessels colours, which were nol
1 ' returned them until after the Britilh abandonee
Pl the 0 pe.
1-
in Sufjlance of Mr. Harper's Speech on thi
of quejiion of permitting Merchants Jhips tt
ul arm for defence in the IVfl-India trade,
M Mr. Harper observed, that it did no'
er seem to him necessary for members to pre
r * face their otfervations in that House witl
VT ' accounts of themselves, or declarations abou
►h ! their motives—much less could it be necef
g- ; fary to talk about the motives of othe
rs 1 people. He believed that gentlemen vver
*° j for the moll part, far better known to other
v " | than to themselves, and as for their motives
they would bell be judged of by the natur
• * land tendency of^heiraclions. He woidi
i therefore, as he had alwßy before endeavour
cd to do, avoid the example of gentlemen i
4
this refpeft, ;:;id fhouJd content lumfelf 1 ffi
with dating his own ar.d endeavour- j to
ing to controvert those of gentlemen who- as
opposed him, without faying any thing about ef
his motives or theirs. * t' l
He could have wished that other gentle- in
tnen had acted thus. They had however &
chosen to pursue a very different course. 1
They had constantly and loudly attributed th
to him and other gentlemen who thought aj
with him, the very worst of motives, a de
sire to bring their country into war, and this 0
l I:i contradiftion to their express and repeat- h;
ed disavowal of such intentions. When he ei
and gentlemen with whom he agreed, had
made-the most solemn afleveraticms, that it hi
was their whole desire to preserve the peace tc
of this country, in every manner confident w
with itstfue interests, and that they advised fc
certain'meafures, because they, iathe best of w
their judgment, thought them best calcula- ir
ted to produce this eneft ; they had been P
repeatedly told, though not always with the di
fame rudentfs, that they were not believed, c;
The accusation of intending to draw the it
country into war, had been extended to all
who differed in sentiment with certain gen- a:
tlemen, and every measure which they did k
not like, was imputed to this intention.— o
The charge had been extended to the Exe- n
cutive ; and it had been said both on that h
floor and eifewhere, that proofs of this hof- n
tile intention were to be found even in the ti
pacific measures which he had resolved to p
pursue. d
On this head Mr. H. said, he did not o
know how gentlemen were to be cured of ti
their incredulity ; how did he know whe- a
ther it was desirable that they should be cu- tl
red : He certainly should take no further t
pains to do so. Of one thing, however, he 0
could assure gentlemen—that the fear of t
their cenfur* on his motives, or the desire v
of averting it, should never induce him, in t
any degree, to alter his conduft: It was v
the public good he fought, and the public t
a»':eem, in addition to his own, was the re- e
ward he de fired. As to the good opinion of
certain gentlemen, if it came in his way he c
should not rejeft it ; but he could not fay d
that he would go out of his way to obtain 1 t
it. If, therefore, it was an effeft on him j a
they meant to produce, they might spare 1 c
themselves the trouble in future. If it was ■ a
an effeft on the public ; still their labours e
would not effeft him ; for he was very wil- : a
ling to let his motives be laid before the pub- i c
lie, on his own sincerity, weighed against a
the accusations of those gentlemen. j c
He had been led into these remarks, not
only by the course conftaqfcly pursued by 1 1
gentlemen in general, but by the aflertion I <■
of the gentleman last np—from Maryland , 1
(Mr. Smith). That this motion for ex- j
cepting the Weft India trade from the pro- '<
hibition to arm for defence, was a motion for j 1
peace or war. In this opinion he could not J
agree. He was persuaded, and he should f
endeavour to shew that the right of arming \ \
merchants (hips for defence in the Weft In- 1
dia trade, might be so regulated and re- <
ftrifted, as to become in no degree dange
. rous to the peace "of this country. '
i He said the right of arming for defence ; 1
for he took this to be a right inherent by ;
the law of nations, in every neutral State.
He had not, he confefled, made researches
' into the law of riations on this point, but the
! general course of his reading had led to this
1 conclusion. It was also confirmed by histo
ry and the praftice of neutral States, whose
1 merchants (hips did very frequently fail
j armed in time of war. It was a natural
j right to carry arms for defcece, as much on
, the water as on the land. The offence, lay
1 in either cafe, hot in the arming, but in the
c improper use of the arms. If on a
' journey should carry arms for his defence
against robbers, this would he proper ; but
. should he use them to rob himfelf, be be
- comes punishable as a felon—So it is at sea.
c The arms may be carried, and may be
e used properly. If used improperly, pun
t ifhment ensues. This he had moreover un
s derftood to be the result of the best legal
>f opinions in this country ; and indeed it had
e not been denied.
~ It must, however, be admitted, that the
abuse of this right was far more easy, and
il far more dangerous, at sea, than ou land : It
3 was therefore proper to lay it under much
1 stronger reftriftions ; and some nations had
1 thought fit to reftrift it altogether. Whe
ther we should do so in the present circum
ii fiances, was the question. This question
he would repeat, was riot about the giving
of a right, but about the reftrifting or tak
ing away entirely of one which already ex
i_ ifted.
it When this proposition was firft brought
1- forward by his colleague, it was presented
in the most general and abftraft form- It
'J was "to regulate the arming of mercahnts
lc (hips for defence." Afterwards by the con
sent of the mover it had been exp#.Ted dis
h ferently : "To reftrift the arming of mer
chants (hips for defence, to particular cases."
A gentleman from Connefticut (Mr. Coit)
J had moved to amend it so as to read '? to re
1. ftrift the arming of merchants (li:p% &c.
r to the trade to the East Indies and the Me
" diterranean." It had then been moved to
insert before the word." Indies" the words
:)t stand "to reftrift the arming of merchants
:d fliips, &c. to the trade of the East and Weft
Indies, and the Mediterranean." That was
the motion then under difcufTan. The
question was whether merchants ships enga
lo ged in the Weft India trade should be pre
vented entirely- from arming for defence ?
ft And this the gentleman from Maryland had
c- .declared to be a question of peace or war.
th But how, he would a fie, was it a question
ut of peace or war ? Was it not prafticable to
:f- leave the merchants possessed of this right,
er but under such regulations and reftriftions as
re would take away the danger of abuse ?—Or
■rs if abuses should happen, would save the
■% nation from refponflbility ; would take away
re cause of offence from other nations ; He
lid believed it was prafticable, ar.d he should
ir- n6w'endeavour to shew it. The question]
in had indeed been brought forward in its ab-'
ffrjft form i in this form it was proper full i c;
to difcufsit. The modifications would come 1 a*
dfitruardf, when it should affame the form I a
ef a bill. Gentlemen- had complained of jfa
this mode, and called for the modifications
in the firft instance; but tlicy had them- at
selves proved, that this mod.; was proper.-: j c.<
They had not only proved by the tenor o£ 119
their opposition that they meant to vote Ibi
against the measure under any poffiblc modi- I o
fication ; but liacf expressly declared it.— J ai
One gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Giles) I tc
had even declared that he would vote againfl | j'
every proposition on the table. Why then Iti
spend time in modifying a measure, which a!
however modified, gentlemen were resolved I ci
to oppose. ? The • proper way was, to fee J it
whether it could be carried in iLs general h
form, and let the modification Cornc after- II
wards. Though, however, he thought it n;
improper to propose any modification at c;
present, he would tell gentlemen, and en- ai
deavour to (hew the Committee, how, In his I
opinion, it might be modified so as to strip a
it of all its dangers. b
There were, he (aid, three kinds cf trade
as between us and France. There was one c
kind prohibited either by treaties or the law t
of nations, one kind in dispute, and one kind I tl
neither prohibited nor in dispute. To this j v
last kind the right might be, and in his opi- I ti
nion ought to be, reftrifted. These reftric- I o
tions (hould be exprefled in the law, and in | i
precise inftruftions, and heavy penalties, un- I F
der good security, should be exacted for the I j'
observance of these inftruftions. Thus as I 0
the inftruftions would be confined wholly to I g
a trade, neither prohibited nor in dispute, I t
they could not be complained of; and if J v
they were infringed, it would not be the aft j <j
of the nation. The nation would have only I d
to disavow the aft, and (hew the inftruftions 11
whereby it was forbidden ; it then became I v
the private aft of parties, for which they j t
were punifliable, but the nation not bound | I
'to answer. This must. be admitted by all, | t
especially oy those gentlemen who contend I r
that the French Government is not ac- j c
countable for the hoftije afts in the Weft Tn- I h
dies, though avowedly founded on one of I V
I their decrees, and done bv their public and I f
! acknowledged agents, {f, under these cir- 11
■ cumftances, the French Government b? not I r
1 answerable for these afts, because it has not I '
especially authorized them, how, he would I £
j ask, could the American Government be ac- j c
1 countable for afts done- not only without its j 1
authority, but against its express and public I t
■ orders ? For afts, which instead of being I 1
! able*to avow, should it think fit, as the I 1
! French Government do- with' refpeft to the I ■
j depredations in the Weft Indies, it would 1
be bound topunifh. I 1
He would exemplify this general position I 1
1 as to th? manner of modifying this measure, I i
by some particular cases : not in order to j 1
point out all the modifications whereof it was j '
susceptible, or to declare that he would sup- j <
I port all that he fhonld mention ; but to (hew I >
how it might be modified so as to remove j '
every objeftion. j
111 the firft place Britain exercifcd the'right I '
of taking the goods of her enemies if found 1
on board of our (hips. This France ailed- j
ged was aright given to the Engliilibyour I
treaty with them, and that (he also. tad I
; become intitled to it. She therefore decla- I
: red that (he would take the goods of her e- I
nemies whenever (he could find them in our j
. (hips. Tnispoint we do not concede ; but
• neither do we mean to resist the right by j
[ force. We intend to ttegociate, and per
[ haps to yield it if found expedient. It j
[ would therefore be improper, and contrary |
- to the spirit of this negociation to permit 1
: our vefTels to arm in this trade ; and confe- I
1 quently every veflel whichftiall take onboard j
: goods the prope'rty of the enemies of France
: must be prevented from arming. Every vef
. fel before (lie arms must give fufficient proof j
, that (lie has no such goods on board, and
; fufficient security not to take them.
So also asto contraband aboutwhich there
. is a point in dispute between us and Franc; I
1 which we mean to fettle by negociation.— I
1 The French treaty limits the contraband j
lift. In the British it is more extended, and I
; the French declare that they will extend it I
1 in the fame manner. Here is a dispute which
t like the former, we mean to fettle if possible I
j by negociation. We must not therefore 1
i permit oif citizens to contest it by arms ;
- and accordingly no veflel (hould be permit- I
. ted to armwithout proving that (he had none j
1 of those articles on board, and giving fecu- I
t rity to take noue. If (he did so, it would I
- be contrary to her inftruftions Scat her own I
- ri(k. The bonds would be forfeited, the aft I
disapproved, and the. nation saved from all I
t refponflbility.
i The fame observations, he said, would I
t apply to the cafe of a place blockaded or be- I
s sieged. By the Laws of Nations provisions I
- could not be carried to a blockaded or be- I
fiegedplace. What wouldconftituteafiegecr I
•- blockadewasaqueftionoftheLawofNations;
" but the ejeiftence of thefiegeor blockade must
) in the firft jnftance be notified to neutrals by
:- the party forming it. It could be known
:. in no other manner : for the neutrals must
be well acquainted with the circUmstances,
o and the besieged party would not teftify a
[s gainst themselves- Indeed acefs could not
n be had to them, and of course their opinion
:s could not he known. The besiegers must
ft therefore make the declaration in the firft
is instance, and neutrals must believe it. Whe
le ther falfe or true becomes afterwards a quef
l- tion in the Courts of Admiralty which the
e- French authority there has declared to be '
? in this state. The truth of this declaration
id will be a matter of controversy when any of
ourveflelsfliallbe taken in the attempt to enter
n those ports peaceably: but in the mean time
to they must not be allowed to attempt to en
t, ter by force. They must be prohibited in
as the fame manner as if the place were decla
)r red by the commander of a squadron to be
le in a state of blocade. At least, Mr. har
ly per said, this appeared to him to be pro
le per according to this present view of the
Id point. He might hereafter think otherwise
>n for his mind was not fully made up. But
b-' proper cr not, which was watter of future
cyifideAtibn," it was certaiafy pra&icable,
and if done would Cave the government from
any responsibility : a'nd that waS fufficicnt
for the present purpose.
These modilications, Mr. Harper said,
and as many more as might be thought nc
ceffary, it wftuld be practicable to introduce
iijto a The provifione of this bill would
be digested into'aTett o'f Tnft'ru&ion- find"
owners of veffeb applying for permission to
arnvdefeniivety, would be obliged to conform
|to the-law, and to give large bonds with fuf
ficient security for conforming to the inflec
tions. Resolves by way of indictment, might
also be added for matters of veflels who ftrould
contravene the inftru&ions.# If they flifculd
dill be contravened, the government would
have notlting ta do but disavow the act,
(hew the inftruftlons, and lay to -tie other
nation, puiiilh thefi persons if
catch them, they havc.djfobeycd our orders,
and if they -.come here we will punish fliem,
In the mean time wc-wittforfeit.LK;'r bonds:''
and thus all jnftifiable cause of offence would
be taken away.
He said " juftifiable cause of offence" be- '
caafe it was and always would be impossible
to take away pretexts of war from a natfen »
that has resolved on it. Such pretexts it
was well known from the history of "all na
tions and ages, had never been wanting when
one power was resolved to attack another.
All that could be done by a state deSrous of
peace was to avoid real cause of offence,
juftifiable cause of quarrel. This mtift be
our conduft. We mull avoid juftifiable
ground of complaint andoffence : this would
be done by,the measures recommended ; and
we could do no more. If France were so
determined on a quarrel as to attack us un-
der so flirnzy a pretence, (he wo aid. .find "b- *
thers were we to deprive her of this. War'
we' (hould have, if.war was her desire ; and
the; only possible chance of avoiding it, W6flld_
be by letting her fee that it was not her in- .
tereft. Mr. Harper was not afraid to fro-'
nounce the word war. He was neither afraid 1
of the thing, nor alarmed at the found ; and
he could conceive eaftly of circuraftancea -in
>vhich all the intereftsofthiscountry would Call
for war. Those circun-ftacces he did not
believe now to exist. He believed they
might be averted ; and that to adopt this
measure would strongly tendto produce that
effe&. Much had been, said about a clamor,
of war which had on former occasions been
raised. If such a clamour had been raised
the justice would be done him to acknow
ledge that he had never assisted it. He had
never resorted to the alarm of war. It was
an event which he had never apprehended,
nor did he now apprehend it. It was an e
vent always possible, and for which every
country ought to be prepared ; and this con
stant ftateof preparation was thebeft means
of averting it ; which was not to be done by
temporizing measures- A country which
acts justly towards others, and (hews a desire
of peace, and at the fame time a refolutio'n
to defend itfelf, will always be the most fafe
fiom injury and aggression.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Port of Philadelphia.
ARRIVED, DAYS*
Ship Goddess ef Plcnt y',Cl,ur:iGde, Port
Brig, J aHy, Doffon, • Cape JSichoh Mole 16
Isabella & Ann, Hampt*n, Aux C*y,es 3*
Eliza, Arnold, Cbarld'on 10
I'uraaa, Morris, N. Carolina %
Adamant!, Wklrling. Windfer, N. S, if
Schr. Susannah. Carson, Barbadoes 24
Samuel, Carson,' Barbadoes 14,
, Yateman, Crane. Cape Nichola Mole 23
Andrew, Caffin, Ditto 16
Miile'rva, Dill, • Baltimore: 8
Hancock Horton, Providence J
Sloop Driver, Brent, Cape Nichola Mole 16
Betfejr, King, Alexandri4 5
CLEARED.
. Ship Bacchus,XSeorge, I.ocdon
Farey, Ehrenftroom, Ilavannah
Brig Enteijirizc, Laugdon, Kingston, Jamaica
Adelaide, Minns, Baltimore
George, Waire, N, Carolina
Schr. RichmoHd, Thomas, Norfolk
. Folly Hall, ChaniUtr, V afliington N.i (*.
lifhju, iDrunimoad, Ncrfoli
1 Sloop Morning Star, Wtiden, Foley
[ Captain Hampton was boarded by French ami
Britifii Cruisers, who ' after examination iUfmiiTe<i
hiai—the former exprefkd regret thai he-was
from a Britiih port.
l'ort of BALTIMORE.
: , ARRIVED.
; *'hip Ahigal, Weft-Indies
Schr. Experiment, Jones, da.
Bctfy and Patsy, Durfcea, do.
Victory, Jones, do.
Thomas. Knap, do.
1 Mary.Thompson,* do.
1 Rachel, Williams, do.
. SUep Jane, Brown, Philadelphia
1 NEW-YORK, June 9.
ARRIVED. i Dtp.
j Brig.Diarfem, Collin, Havamiah-ii)
Schr. Rochille, Swift, N. Carolina 7
Polly, Shaw, Savannah 11
s Sloop Betsey, Con Win, N. Provideltce XI
BALTIMORE, June 6.
r The brig Fanny, of Baltimore, captain
; Richard Fijher, from St. Thomas to Cape
\ Francois, was captured the \JI May by a
■f Brit"Jh 74 gunJßip, and fx*, into the-Mate,
n the cargo which -was flour, hoifltd out, every
I barrel bcred and she cre<w inierrttgiled Jty.ir
;, ately ; after which capt. Fjher hadfrrix'fpon
- given him either to fell at tkt Mile 'if to proceed
t under convoy to any other British port; ■ffmr
n fit the Mole would only bring 7 JrfLtrs pef 'blir-
H rel, of course captain Fijher proceecild tQ-'Jlre-
II mie,where flour was so p'lr.ty that it utMd r*t
:- fell ct any pr:ce\ -Captain Fijher mttptMi ihct
f- one convoy of 0 and anottyrfiri*
e ies had been feht dewn to 'Jamaica, Ciid that
e there appeared fa be a determination to 'capture
n all American Wffels bound to or from French
>f ports.
:r The Schooner IVillicm of Baltimore, cept.
le Francis'Smilhwici, on hfr fnffagt home frc;n
1- Jacquemet, was captured on the &th May, by
ii ihe Hir.iTletter df Marqne, andpnt into Jere
i- mie, the captain detained as a prifuner, and the
>e • Jfhmn'er sent doton with two others to Jamaica
r- under convoy. Captain Smith wilt -writes that
> a convoy with.nine American prime had failed
if afew day before for Jamaifa, and that report
fe \faid orders were-given to fend thither cdl Amer
it | ican "reffcls bound or from French ports as
re g'odpriztuXfte CSajette. t: t
—»— cd £
PHILADELPHIA, rtq &
SATURDA Y SFENING. JUKE 10, 1797. whe
4 tc
— 7r ~ • -rr~ tt—
M*. fen no, und
I cannot.agree with your . cortefpondent, th:t Bio
t\e circular J.ctUr ptiMifliei in your paper of yi-f- «j
trrday, T» tlie proda-Airm of one of the under _l.
coorkeejKrs of Cor.gret—Their talents however o
moderate,-' are certainly fcperior to such a
performance, and I wili Sf bold to fly, they are the!
noadmirer*oftheNiw philosophy. Formvown fenc
part, I dojiot hesitate to pron&uree, that this Cu- J
riofl. y as~you havd juftty named it, is th- lawful t , r
S=Ot!;ng of one of those cxchifive Patriot*, who,
whilst They affeil cWpUaiure at a few hatfh truths "'«<
openiw teJ4.io thielr patroßf. in the newspapers, are bee
underhand&Uy circulating anvm? their immediate bro
CToOitntnts', :fte most' unfounded calumnies against on
the friends of the Government, The allusion to
the l?.'e prefcut*Aent of the Orand Jury in Virginia
plainly indicates the quarter frorr: whence this cle- P lai
giutind candid epistle originated. be
No CIRCUL.'.R LfcTTER WIITIR. so u
ling
Te Tbpmas Paine, by 3 G;ntleman of Butk's as ;
County, Pennlylvania. Abc
Sjy, irfideV wretch! canst theu survey, for
Wn globe of fire, that gives the golden day ? me:
The hamc'iiiou* ftrudure of this vail machine, cti'
And nor corifefs its Architesft divine ?
Then go.' vSfci msnfter !■ tho' deathless be thy fo«l > •
Go f\reil.lt>e riot and exjiautt the bowl, w "
Piug-- h to Humanity reftgn, bat
Go £Uthe fly. brittleiiitofwina.
t op]
.Yclterday a man in Southwark, a flioema- f ro
ker, (tabbed another man ill the belly, in hir
S&m* that he died immediately.— p r j
They were both from Ireland—The of'icn- eo j
dw was committed to jail. P r(
_ of
.About three weeks since, a Negro, being COl
dujrned fey another, the Debtor struck his T}
Creditor o*'er the head with a loaded whip, OC(
li;d killed him on the spot. The murderer p a
was committed to jail. no
Died lately in England, Miss Addison, me
the only daughter of the celebrated Mr. Ad- he
difon, by the then Countess of Warwick ; he
{lie was buried at Bilton, near Rugby, in I w j
the county of Warwick. Many years since an
she made her last will in favour of the third n0
son of lord Bradford, who now comes in a h
for Jicr estate. There are left at her late I j; c
house at Bilton, where (he died, several por
traits of Mr. Addifon and his friends, and I to
his library," which it is presumed contains I f ei
many valuable books and manuscripts. al
I of
CONGRESS. g(
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
I a
FRIDAY, JUNE 9.
A member from Maflachufetts (Mr. Ihi
Bullock) appeared, was qualified and took j fe
his feat. I
The bill to prevent Americans from pri- I w
vateering under a foreign flag, underwent a I ir
trifling amendment and pafled. I te
Mr. Blount laid on the table a refolu- I
, tion, to request the Erefident to cause.to be I £
laid before the House an account of the arms tl
belonging to the United States. I c '~
Mr. Thatcher moved that when the I
House adjourn they adjourn till Monday.— n
Negatived. a
Mr. Nicholas moved ■ that for the re-1
mainder of the feff.on the House do meet I
at 10 o'clock.—Negatived 37 to 4s. I g
The House then went into a committee 1 c
of the whole on the state of the union, Mr. I g
Dent in the chair.
Mr. Davton brought forward the amend- r
iricnt to Mr. Smith's sth resolution of which d
he gave notice yesterday, viz. that merchant- I 0
men should be authorized to arm under certain \
regulations, &c- If the resolution, he ob
served, as it now flood, viz. to rejlria the r
arming, &c. should carry, a bill be brought I 1
in, and that bill fall through either in the r
House or Senate, it would eftabliih a gene- S
ral principle, that the merchants have a right t
to arm. This was a dangerous principle 1
and might involve us in difficulties ; under 11
~ this impreflion he declared he should not J
vote for unlefs this amendment I
prevailed, f 1
Mr. Dana conceived, that the suggestion 1
01 the gentleman last up, went, by implica- I <
tion, to a cenfurc of the conduft of the Pre- I
fident, who, without a law, had authorised J
the arming of vessels bound to the East In- 1
dies and the Mediterranean.
Mr. Dayton was of opinion that the re- I
verse of what the last member had stated was I
the fair indu&ion. By faying now that I
the "right of arming ought to be reftr-icted to I
the cases of }he Mediterranean and Weft I
luditfs, the House in faft approved the con
duft of the Executive in this refpeft.
Mr. Venable cspreffed himfelf of the J
opinion of the member last up.
Thfe amendment of Mr. Dayton was car- I
ried, 51 members riling in the affirmative. I
, Mr. Smith (Ch.) laid he understood
the words '• authorised," &c. not as giv- I
, n c- right to the merchants, which he j
. ftiU ipfifted they had without, but as recog
nizing the right, as treaties often recognize
particular pointijof the laws of nations, which I
they cannot be faid'to«ftabli(h.
,» Mr. Otis conceived the resolution, as it
now it pod, narro*L-d the ground of lawful
... defence too much. We have some commerce
vi:h Africa and the north-weft coast of A*.
, oierica, that wquire* forne protection against
pirates, whereas the resolution extended on
ly to vessels bound to the East Indies or
Mediterranean. * , _ (
Aaucftion was put on the resolution as
aalendtd, and it .was loft. 37 to 45.
Mr. Blount offered .refol'JtionH to the
blowing effe£t :
RefoKed, that provifton ought to be «.iade
by IVw to plate 50,900 of the militia of
t)ie U»«ed Stakes, in equal proportion from
thi 'feteral fta?«," in rccftiLCtiou.
- Rtfolved,' that protifion be nsde to au
* thorifc the poteb ;.fe of thtfnfacd ftantl
of anns to be depoiittd is th: tveral state*
j in proportion to the number of \vhite ink. l .- j disc:
bitants in each. ing
Mr. Blount thought that a well organiz- I\'
ed fyftern of internal defence was all that was on g
required at the present crifts. ■ was
Mr. Smith (S. C.) had some doubts the 1
whether as he waved his refutations 3 and ing
4to bring forward the sth, that being dif- N
posed of, the 3d and 4th should not come disci
under consideration prior to those of Mr. clen:
Blount. tion
The Chairman declared Mr. Blount's re- witl
gu'arly before the committee.. was
t Mr. Harper declared he (hould vote for post
: these resolutions as part df the system of de- ther
1 fence. now
| Mr. Blount did not care whether they thei
were voted for as a part of the fyftera or the refe
I whole, provided they were carried. It had his 1
: been said by the member from who to r
c brought forward the firing of resolutions, j mer
* on a former occasion, that those who were ! did
againft his proportions wera unwilling to refc
place the country in a state of defence. But to I
he believed the suggestion was perfectly un- I
founded. Jror his own part he was as Vvil- tior
ling to place the country in a state of defence the
s as any member, but he differed from, some ter
about the means. The resolutions he bro't the
forward, in liis opinion, took in the proper I
means, and if they were adopted, he con- den
ceived the House would have done their du- fuc'
ty. He was against those means of defence, Ho
which hazarded our peace, and might be a fori
bar in the way of an accommodation. ded
Mr. Smith (S. C.) said he should not oug
oppose the propositions of the gentleman par
*" from North Carolina ; but they appeared to the
" him calculated to do little or nO good. The it n
principal objett of the call of Congress he age
eonceived to be to take measures for the difi
proteftion of our commerce, and of course j
of our revenue which depended on it ; this adj
'g could not be effe£tcd by those resolutions. ciri
' s They could, however, do no harm—would ch;
P> occasion no expence or trouble but that of to
er palling them into law.; they would require tht
no additional revenue, but they afforded no I
remedy to the evils complained of. Those tio
N > measures which could afford efficient defence j
-1- jhe was sorry to fay were opposed on the mi
5 beaten ground of expence. For his part, !no
in j when the security of his country's commerce thi
L ' e I and revenue required that expence, Jie should ] dif
rd I no t fear to meet the e/le£t of the disagree- E;
in able sensations which an addition to the pub' ad
te I lie burdens generally produced. cu
ir " I Mr. Thatcher said, that tho' attached tu
BS I fee why we should adopt the French language tic
I altogether ; he objected to the words " state
los requisition" in the resolution, and fug- r£l
I gefted whether the words " hold in readi- j
I ness," would not answer as well. ! an
'S* I Mr. Blount conceived the obje&ion of j nc
I a very trifling nature. The word had been j
repeatedly used by the old Congress. But
Ir. I he supposed the gentleman from Maffachu-
ok j setts, by his remark, meant to insinuate that "
Ihe might be one of that French fadtion, c
iri- I which had been so often talked of, for hav- P'
ta I ing used, what he chose to imagine was a !
I term borrowed from the French,
lu- I Mr. Thatch er observed, that he had
be I said nothing about a French faftion, or of L.
■ms the members belonging to it—lut a guilty
I comfcience needs no accuser. PJ
the I Mr. Blojjnt said with warmth, that no
, I man, in no place, should east upon him such
I an insinuation with impunity,
re- I The chairman called to order,
eet I Mr. Lyon said he supposed, that if the '
I gentleman from Maflachufetts could be j '
tee I convinced that jy requisition" was good En- | 0
vfr. I glifh, he would have no objection to it. j f
I The Journals of the house, for '94 were 1 '
nd- recurred to, and Mr. Blount agreed to mo- j j
iich dify his resolution, so as to readin the words 1
rat- I of a resolution of the house then adopted, j "
tain The resolution is in substance as follows : 1
ob- Resolved, That the President of the U- v '
the I nited States b» authorised to call on the ! '
ght I Executives of the several States, to take |
the I measures to organize, and hold in readiness | x
;ne- j 80,000 militia including officers and privates
ght to be apportioned among the several States |
iple in proportion to their number of white in-
ider I habitants, viz.
not For Georgia (blank) j
lent I North Carolina (blank) &c.
I The resolution was then adopted. The I
tion I second resolution offered by Mr. Blount, J
lica- I after some conversation was withdrawn.
Pre- I Mr. Smith's (Ch.) 3d resolution which
•ifed I was originally to authorise the purchase of 1
In- I frigates and (loops of war ; and which he
I had modified so as only to empower the Pre
; re-I fident, if he judged proper, to purchase '
was I vessels for the protection of our trade, Came
that I under consideration of the committee.
•d to I Mr. Varnum objefted to the resolution
iVeft jon constitutional grounds. Congrels by the
con- I constitution are authorised to provide for
I and maintain a navy ; but had no right to
the I make over a discretion to do this to the Ex-
I ecutive ; their powers were not transfera
icar- I ble.
itive. I Mr. Sml th (S. C.) could not believe the
[tood I cbjeftion serious. Though by the confti
giv- I tution Congress are to provide a navy ; yet
h he I surely they can authorise the President and
■cog- I give him means for providing it. Congress
rnize I alone are authorised to borrow money ; shall
/hich they not be at liberty to direst the Execu-
I tive to obtain a loan, or must they go in a
as it body to Holland to make the bargain,
iwful Something must be entrusted to the Execu
nerce tive or in time of danger the country could
?f A- j not be defended. The House did not ap
rainft pear of opinion, that the country was now
d on- in such a state as to require any additional
es or armament ; but circumstances might turn
I up during the recess to demand it ; it was
on 'as I therefore expedient to vest this "power -of
procuring a few {mall vessels or gallics in the
:o the President, to be used if circumstances in his
opinion required it.
«.iade Mr. Varnum conceived, that the quef
>ia of tion, whether a nayy was wanted or not, was
1 from veiled by the constitution in the legiflaiure.
; * If they thought an additional r.aval force
to au- receffary, they passed a law for the purpose,
i ftaml then the Executive came in to carry the law
state* irfto effsti ; h'-U it vte net tp.be left to his
*
1 discretion to determine the policy of cncreaf- | Mr
I ins the naval force. w
Mr. Smith (M.) underftocd that a bill Mi
on ground similar to thai of the resolution that
was before the Senate ; he therefore wjfhed tione<
the committee to rife, and wait for its com- j As
ing down. _ j t ' !e u
Mr. Nicholas obj-£led to veiling the . a mot
difcretionarj' power i« the Executive as £;ig,
clearly contrary to the {pirit of the conftitu- decla
tion, 'which Ihotild not be departed from T1
without a cafe of extreme neeelfity. This 38 tc
was not such a cafe. The resolution propo- carru
pose to leave it to the President to fay whe- J i
ther the veflels contemplated were necessary; mitte
now he hrvs already said in his speech that That
they are ; if the question of expediency be the I
referred back to him, as the House knows circu
his opinion, it is tantamount to telling him, purcl
to make the purchase; yet -many •;entle- the d
, men had allowed that present eircumftances T1
: did not require this purchase. Besides, the were
1 : resolution did not define how this force was lie o
; to be uftd. He proposed a modification.
Mr. Smith (Ch.) agreed to the modifica
■ tion, which was to insert in the resolution,
: the words "if eircumftances should hereaf
• ter arise, to render the fame necessary for
: the defence of the sea coast."
Mr M'Dowell observed, that tjie Prefi
■ dent had already given it as his opinion that (
• such a purchase fliould be made. But the Apri
, House are in possession no doubt of every in- lying
\ formation on which the President had foun- had
ded his opinion, and, he conceived, they Engi
t ought to exprefc their own. For his own chad
1 part he saw no new information, which urged The
j the propriety of thjs purchase, which made ijh to
t it more proper than it was two or three year? fate,
i ac;o. He was against the resolution as mo- ling
edified. °f c
ej Mr. J. Willi the House must fels.-
s adjourn of course, a»d during their recess plied
1. eircumftances might arise to make the pur
i chafe advifeable. He wished the resolution
f to correspond with that adopted in 1794 >
e then we (hould give offence to none. thef
o Mr. Swanwick objefted to the refolu- brig
e tion as modified.
ej Mr. Harper conceived that gentlemen abri
e mistook the objed of the resolution. It did but:
; , j not fay that present eircumftances required —S
e the purchase ; but that future may. If She
d i discretionary power was not veiled in the loos*
1- Executive in cafe eircumftances arise to make S
)i additional force necessary, all that the Exe- Hul
cutive could do would be to call the legida- Bay
:d ture together ; and this would not be effec- Her
>t tual from the time required for this opera- S
re tion.
. • s
Mr. M'Do\vf.ll again spoke against the
l~ resolution. Eight or ten veflels, would only 01
be fufficient to protest our coasting, trade ; j f 101
and the danger to it was not so imminent, 011
■ nor the value of it so considerable as to au- vo >
:n i thorife the expence of such an armament.
Jt Mr. Gallatin agreed, that the resolu
tion as modified was less objectionable than
" l before : But he was against it even in its
present ffiape. The resolution as it now
stood confined the operation of the propos
ed armament to the sea coast ; but this did
j not give him a clear idea of its objeft. Was A"
it to prevent aftual Tnvafion on the coast ?
j, j ; The force then was infufficient. Was it to
; protect our veflels within the jurisdiction of
! the United States, within nine miles of the
"k coast ? This objeft was not worth the ex
pence ; we have fuffered but little from de-
predations within our jurifdiftion. Was it
to protest our coasting trade and other vef-,
[ convoys ; this seemed to be the idea of the
n ~ ! gentleman from S. Carolina, and there was
' reason to presume it was that of the Execu
" | tive, and hre they were at issue. The gen
-ds 1 t ' eman f rom S. Carolina, fortified with the
J( j opinion of the Attorney General, had con
" tended, that an American vessel provided
jj with regular sea letters, &c. having exhibit
ed them, might refill if attempted to be cap
j tured by the French, and he presumed this
e j- 5 j was the opinion of the Executive. He
te , could not coincide in this opinion ; but fet
tes ting this difference of opinion aside, was
•" S the House ready in the present state of things
to give the Executive the means of enforc
ing it. While negotiations were in train
for an accommodation of differences, was it
->h e prudent to provide the means for measures,
which he should not merely term irritating,
' but which went to aftual holtility.
iich It was said, that-the means were only
of lodged in the hands of the Executive to be
.he provisionally used ; that he is only to use
3 re- them if eircumftances should arise hereafter
lafe to make it advifeable. But the President
ime has already declared he now thinks it advife
able ; of course the smallest additional cir
tion cumftances will authorize him, wilt make it
the his duty, consistently with the opinion he has
for expressed, to use the means. This proposed
tto armament would not be wanted for the pro-
Ex- teftion of our coast against the Weft India
"era- privateers. They will not come here in any.
numbers from the nature of their armament ?
: the those who do come will be the large veflels,
nfti- with regular commiflions for the fake of
yet making captures, not of plundering. He
and saw no reason to expeft much de
jrefs predation on our coast ; the bill lately paf
"(hall ed preventing the exportation of ammuni
ecu- tion, &c. will go towards lessening the dan
in a ger. He concluded by mentioning the fitu
vain. ation of our finances as not of a nature to
;ecu- warrant expence of problematical or not in
:ould dispensable utility. Our expence equals our
: ap- revenues ; and in i£ci the deferred debt
now will require an annual sum of 1,200,000
ional dollars. ,
turn Mr. Nicholas declared himfelf in favour
was of the resolution, if the operation of the
er t)f contemplated armament was was to be con
n the fined to our bays and harbours, and within
in his our jurifdiftion.
Mr. Smith S. Carolina, Brooks, Craik,
quef- Harper and Otis, spoke in favour of the re
, was folut on : Messrs. Giles, Swanwick and
tture. Gallatin against it.
force Mr. Milledge wished the contemplated
■pose, armjtr.er.t to consist of Galleys only,
ic law Mr. Parker wished " Galleys or other
:o his vefffl:."
| Mr. Smith S. C. modified it agreeably to
the wish of the member last up.. .
Mr. Gallatin moved, to add a provision
that these vesseL so employed fhocld be fifi
tioned within the United States.
j After some debate on thie amendment,
; the usual hoar of adjournment being pall, \\'i
! a motion v.'as made for the Committee's ri
sing, and negatived 43 to 42, the Ch;.irm;yi A
declaring in the negative. I B
The amendment of Mr. Gallatin was loft
38 to 49, and the resolution as modified lr
carried, 51 rising in the affirmative. | v
The resolution as adopted by the Com- ' t oni
mittee, is in fubltance as follows : Resolved, enu
That proviffon be made by law to authorize " m
the President i>f the United States, /hould , ail)il
: eircumftances hereafter make it necessary, to j f j
, purchase galleys or other veflels for a i
the defence of the United States.
; This resolution and that before agreed to, A ]
were reported to the House, :md ordered to
, lie on the table. Adjourned. Th
By this day's Mail. [
BOSTON, June 6
Pie
FROM CADIZ.
t Capt. Butler, from Cadiz, which he left T
: April 6, informs, that the Spa njh fleet iverc
- lying at that port. The Santijfma TriniJada,
- had arrived, in a very flattered condition. j
; Englijh cruisers were very frequently off CadH,, tin
1 chacing Spanish veflels quite under* the forts, mo
1 The French Government, had advised the Span-
e ifhto punjh severely the officers of the fleet de
s featedby the Englijh; and requested the annul- lf
- ling of an order which permitted the importation c ha
of certain Erigljh merchandize in neutral vef- be
\ fcls. —The latter refpe&ful reqrifuion was com- inc
s plied with.
ex;
n NEW-YORK, June 9. ah
; Yesterday arrived here frcm N. Providence or
the sloop Betsey, Coßk'.in of New York, with P u
1- brig Harmony, of PorifmuUth, New Hamp
shire, which (he took oft the Bahama Banks,
n abrig of jootons, which with hercargo being m
d but a little damaged, valued at 80,000 dollars _
d —She left the Havanna some days befere—
!f She had n fret water in her hold—boats and
e loose fails, with her crew gone.
e Ship Sally and Betsey, of New York c&pt. fa ,
?- Hubald failed the 7th of May from Montego ft,
1- Bay, Jamaica, was captnred by the ptivateer gi
:- Heroine, of 12 guns, bound toNew-Yoik. co
t- Sailed flora Jamaica under convoy wf the
(hip Suffolk, Capt.. White of this port-- p]
ie Schooner Sally, Thurtton, of aad for New _
Yeik. Biig Democrat, Latham, bound to
. Norfolk. Ship Britannia, Beel, of Boston,
j' bound to CharltftoH $ all of which are con-
J ' voyed fafe to their refpefiive deftincd poits.
j. WASHINGTON LOTTERY, N». //.' |
in - u
ts List of Prizes-and Blanks. w
w
if- 94.h daydrawing, May 27. .®
id it
as No. Dels. No. Dots. A T «? Dots. No. Vols, c!
t ? 8992 to 2«S8o 10 35507
to 3S I 10 9116 10 895 36150 .9
of 366 249 10 >1440 3 fi o 10 a ,
hi- 388 6»6 10 83' *» 682 10 a,
, x ~ 476 788 8 75- 10 ? 02 *O. K
I " 963 «5 8 33379 856 10
1023'10 ICI4O 1° 45* 10 37640
*5 049 is 476 s 6l 847
ef- 130 719 ' 632 983
a3 n8 11039 jo 44366 38.530
he ISS 54i 59 2 10 866
,as 283 • <'S* 593 5 93 39090
, u _ 523 11075 10 45441 595 jo
' * ?s i ia 411 506 40104 J
, 884 13012 10 54t 41051 10
:he 4043 833 2 6 3i9 151
jn- 2 , 7 14169 521 '75 1
led 991 15340 • 17750 41075
lit- 3125 10 433 789 ao '
ap. 616 10 549 18436 'o 201 10
] n ' s 910 10 609 10 835 lo 4H j
rr Qtl 610 29159 488
f le 951 10 638 841 10 867
let "
vas 705 10 481 972 10
ngs s oio 17175 i° 585 to 43530 i
>rc- 224 373 10 646 A t a S3 <
•ain 796 621 693 918 10 s
. 8;6 918 31036 45686
6065 JBi«i 052 711
res > 4 » 2 530 in 10 46260 ro
n g» 683 823 10 103 10 47825 10
JfO 10 964 94; 841
m ] v 7028 10 19289 32038 933
180 380 33 jio 10 4"i95
r 453 10 977 W 49* 945
8325 20403 34740 10
f ter 442 7'l 35400
lent
rife- 95th day's drawing —May 29.
cir- 2roi "o 13315 to 28295 4=771
e ; t 3801 989 5o» 8(7
i,,0 846 10 14579 *5 564 41424
r I 4155 150.30 581 971
0 851 533 19289 42473
P ro " 5315 10 17806 418 869 10
ndia 640 18574 10 685 43510
any. 957 19286 30019 !• 656
snt ? 6737 aol 9 l '73 679
rrv.l, 71x2 4>9 576 850 10
r 690 595 690 10 44774
,e ° 8095 21235 3 10 4 i lO 8i 9 10
He 660 22185 10 31710 10 75510
de- 9096 10 581 33011 10 *SS
pas- 504 13047 7°9 9°5 10
luni- 10107 092 20 3400} 46292 10
j an . 708 10 24976 35540 47518 10
, t 11611 25613 36061 586 10
612 26011 504 703
e , t0 713 10 067 933 48139
•tin- 075 37 4 9i 378
s our 11197 20 146 10 38425 531
debt 436 20 503 10 39673 7ii
000 4M 93? 40703 10 49077
13078 18104 735 5° 160
f'the PRICES OF STOCKS.
COI) - , „
• , ■ 6 ptr Cent. 16/10
Deferred 6 per Cent. 13/ a 1.V3
Jt P et Cent.
'raik, per Cart.
here- j pcrCsct. 10/4
:an d C A N K S H A 'A £ S.
Bank United States, 17 per cent, advance.
,lated l'ennfylvania, 27
North America, J?
INSURANCE COMPANY SHAKES.
Other lC.of N. A 50 per cent, advance.
Penufy Wania, 3
Lailson's Cißcusj
•'Stout b Tifih-jtrefy* T;
The Public are refpe&iftlly informed, that.
j The Performance* at tlie NSW CIRCUS*
THIS EVENING, June 10,
Will begin by 4 Oiind Parade of Equeftriari
Prrformers of both. fcxes.
A grand display of Horfemanfliip,
| Bv MeflYi. Langley, Herman, C. V«ndeveldc,
Nich'jias/Gon6» i'uUy, (the Clown and La»lfon.
Mr. Sullv, in-the charadar ol Clown, wilt
j periorm a variety of Comic Feats.
Mr. Lailson Wili petform feveralcurious and if;
tonifhing exereifes, winch he will not undertake to
enumerate, in order to (urp.tz ■ the fpcflators; hi S
aim being to please :—and nothing lhall be neglt&ed
to render ihecxercifcs wohhy the attention ot tin;
am*ieuisof this new ait.
j THE TA TLOR A ND HIS HORSEi
' A comiofceße on Hoifeback, by Mr. Kfc'Douald.
Ibe Pedejlal,
A beautiful isiiuellrian Statue, by Wfr. 1 atlfon's
favorite Princes*.
This evening's entertainment will conclude by a
new pantornine, ca.led
Harlequin Triumphatitj
Or, the POWER of M V.!IC.
lu which will be introduced femefele<£l fcenesfrom
other pantomimes performed th's season.
v TmfUy June 13th, the ad representation of
Pierre de Proveuci.
JAMES t)/\ YEN PORT
REfpe&ftilly informs the Citizens of the United
States that he will msk.e Machines far Spinn
ing Hemp, Flax, Tow, Cotton, Wool, manure
tming wines, and wtiving, by wattr, on die
mod reafonablc Term*.
A Manufa&ory on this principle, he flatters
Kimfelf will meet with very general patronage, a«
the Machines will be made And delivered, cqripiete- '
ly furniflied, per Spindle or Piece ; nor v d any
charge be made for his Patent Right? ,bvt Liberty will
be g'ven to the Purchaser to ule them ; the great
inconvenience of employing Workr/.cn in the erec
tion of them will be avoided,and the perfor. wifh:n£
to extend them will be able exailly to ca.cu!c£a thd'
expence. He'engages to set them to wurk, and.
alio inf)roit or cftuie to be inilru&ed,- any person
or perl'ons, in any f part of the Union, who may
purchase thele Machines, in their principles and
method of ere&ion, luch purchaser! paying travel
ing expcnces.
For applica-ioH may be made at No. 4>
Market Street, Philadelphia. •
June 10 3 1 -
public notice
IS hereby given te those persons, holding noter
of the fubferibtr, that he w ill renew f)i«
fame, payable in fix years, with legal imereit
from the date hereof; and that notea will be
given as above to all, who may have open ac»
counts legally authenticated.
TIMOTHY MOUNTFORD.
No. 194, S. Second Street.
Philadelphia, June 10, 1797.
For Sale,
AN ELEGANT AND VERY COMMO
DIOUS
Three-story brick House,
And Lot of Ground thereunto belonging,
IN Arch, above Seventh-ftrcet, being a high, plea*
ant (ituation and good neighbourhood* The said
House is twenty-fix teet in frout by 48 feet in dt p;(i
with • piazza twenty feet in depth, and 9 story kitchen
and pantries 31 feet in depth, in the piazza there is a
commodious (lair cafe and mahogany railing, and
there is also a back (Uir ca(ej said house is ftnithed
in a complete and modern stile, With
chimney pieces, flucco cornices, mahogany doors,
&ci The fiid lot lj # g8 i-i! feet in bi«dth, about
30® feet in depth, and has two fronts ; on said lot
is a large brick coach bo 11 e and liable, well finifhed,
and plaiftered, a pump of good water in the yard,
and about the premiles there are many convenience*
too tedioss to enumerate.
The above property will be fold clear of all in*
cumbrancri, and the terms of payment made cafy to
the purchaser.
For further information apply to
JOHN ELLIOTT CRESSON,
No. 144, South Second-flreet.
June 9. fmwiiu
~
Samuel & Miers Fisher,
No. 27, Dock-street,
' Have jtijl received per Abigail, Babcock, from
Belfast,
IRISH Cambricks, in boxes of 40 pieces
and 80 patches, each sorted up to %f
llerling per yard.
They have also received
7-8 & 4-4 Irish Linens well afTorted
Dowlas and Sheetings,
which will be fold for ready money, or ffiort
credit, on moderate terms ; together with
a general afTortment of Spring Goods as
usual.—Also,
I Hunter' 3 Pipes in boxes
An afTortment of Queens' Ware in crates
An afTortment of GTafs Ware in casks and
I crates »
I T. Crowley, Millington, Steel
Cargo & London particular Teneriffe Wines
I Lisbon Wine of excellent quality
I Superior Sherry Wines
1 Patent Sheathing paper.
I A few small bales fine Cloths neatly affort
| ed, and two bales assorted Flannels, to b<J
I fold per package.
June 9._ 3taw 6w
COTTON.
I * A few baicijufl arrived, for sale by
JOHN CLARK,
No. SS North VVat.r Strict.
June 10. eo, f>
PIANO FORTE.
LONGMAN & BRODERIP'i
I "Q OYAL patent Piano Forte with a green
j ) V board, an excellent toned inftrmment. For
I sale at Mr. Salters, No. 56, S. Fourth Street.
June 10. diw.
"wanted,
\ PARTNF.R ip the Sugar Refining bufi»
1 /V ness, a person who can furnifh from two
I ta three thousand pounds, immediitc'.v —the
I house and utenlils in complete order. Hv ad-
I drtfling a line to A. B. or calling at the Cfiice of
I ihe Amtricin Daily Advertifcr, may he further
J nformed. June 10 I'.
I STJCKNEr'j PATENT ARCH BRIDGE.
1 a NY person drfirous of information, refpeift-
I t\ ing this new conftrudlion, reay obtain it
1 withoit delay by application pr. letter, or otli
-1 erwife, to John Stlckney, nurchant of Worcef-
I ter, (MalTachufetti) who will make known
I the many advantages arising from this manner
I of buildL'.g, and upon application he will either
S. I vend a patent right, or attend personally. to lu
'ance. i perintend tie building ef any required,
j Jwaexq, W 'eoaw.Proposals
•for carrying MA I L So) the
United States on the following
Pojl Roads, will be received \
at the General Pojl-Office, in i
Philadelphia, until the 3 \JI j
day of July next, inclu/ive.
MAINE.
1 From Brewer's or ScooJie by M.ichias, Chan
ljler'» river and Columbia, to Narraguagus once
* week.
Leave Brewer's every Satufday at i P M, and
arrive at Narraguagus the next Tuesday by 6 p
*—Returning, iecve Narraguagus every Wednes
day at 6 a m, and afiive at Brewer's the sex: Sa
turday by 10 a 11.
2. From Narraguagus by Gtnildfborough, Sulli
van, Trenton, EiuchiH, Cuftine, Penobfcot, Bucks*
ton, Frankfort, Profpeit and Belfail to Duck-
Trap odcc a week.
Leave Narraguagus every Wednesday by 6 a
m. and arrive at Duck Trap the next Saturday by
tOA It. Reluming. Leave Duck Trap every Sa
turday by a p xi and arrive at Narraguagus the
next Tuesday by 6 pa
3. From Duck Trap by Camden, Thomafton,
Warren, Waldoborough, Newcastle, V/iicaHVt,
Bath, Brunfwick, Freeportaod North Yarmouth
to Portland once a week.
Leave Duck Trap every Saturday by 2 p m, and
arrive at Portland the nextTuefday by 6 p m. Rt
tur/ung. Leave Portland every Wednesday by 6
a M.aud arrive at Duck Trap the next Saturday by
10 A M.
4. From Portland by Biddeford, Welles and
York, to Portsmouth.
April 15 to October JJ. Leave Portland every
Monday, Wednesday and Friday by 6 a m, and ar-
Hv: at Portsmouth the fame days by 6 p m. Rdurn
i*j. Bfcave Portsmouth every Mor.d.,y, Wednes
day and Friday at 9 p m, and arrive at Portland on
the next day by 6. p m.
Oiiotcris lo April 15. Leave Portland every
Monday and Thurftfay at 6 a m, and arrive at
Portsmouth on Tuesday and Friday by 10 A m. Re
turning. Leave Portfniauth every Tuesday and
Friday at I PM, and arrive at Portland every
Wednesday and Saturday at 5 t m
5. From Portland by North-Yarmcnith, Free
part, Brunfwick, Bath, WifcafTct, Drcfden, Pittf
ton atd Hallowell Hook to Hallowell court house,
once a week.
Leave Portland every Friday at 8 A. M,and ar
rive at Hallowell court-houle the next Saturday by
1 p M. Returning. Leave Hallowed court-houle
every Wednesday by J A M, and arrive at Port
land on Thursday by 6 P M.
6. From WifcafTct by Dresden, Pittfton, Hallo
well Hoait, Hallow-ill court-house, Winthrop,
Mot.mouth, Green, New-Gloucester and Gray to
Portland once a week.
Leave Portland every Monday by 6 A M, and
arrive at Wifcaffet on Wednesday noon. Return
ing. Leave Wifcaffet on Wednesday at j?M, and
arrive at Portland on Friday by 6 P M.
7. From Hallowell Ho«li by Vaffalborongh,
fort Halifax, Winflow, Fairfield and Canaan to
Notlidgewok once a week.
Leave Hallowell Hook every Wednesday at 11
A M, and arrive at N&rridgewock on Thuriday
try 6P M. Retiming. Leave Norridgewock on
Monday at 1 P M, and arrive at Hallowell Hook
on Tucf lay by 6 p M.
8- From Hallowell Hook to Farmingtoo on San
dy river once in two weeks.
Leave Hallowell Hook every other Wednesday
by 8 A M, and arrivo at Farmington by 6 P M.
Returning. Leave Farmington every other Thurs
day at 8 A M, and arrive s/ Hallowell Hook by 6
PM.
.9. From Portland by Falmouth, Gorham, Bux
ton, Standifh, Limerick, Parfonfield, Shapleigh
and Lebanon to Berwick, once in two weeks.
Leave Portland every other Monday at 8 A M,
and arrive at Berwick on Wednesday by noon.
Leave Berwick every other Wednesday at J P
M, and arrive at Portland en Friday by 6 P M.
jo. From Standifh by Flit)flown, Fryburg aca
demy,Conway and Tamworth to Sandwich in New
Hampshire once in two week?.
Leave Standifh every other Tuesday by 8 A M,
andarrive at Sandwich on Wednesday by 6 PM. Re
timing. Leave Sandwich every other Thursday at
8 AM, and arrive at Standifh on Friday by 6
P M.
11. From Wells by Waterboro', Sanford, Dough
ty's Falls, Berwick and Dover, to Portsmouth once
a week.
Leave Wells everyTu.fday by 6 A M, and ar
rive atVortfmouth on Wednesday by 10 A M. Re
turning. Leave Portsmouth every Wednesday by
1P M, and arrive at Wells next Thursday by i
PM.
NEW-HAMPSHIRE.
i». From Portsmouth by Dover, Rochefler and
Moultonborough to Plymouth, returning by New-
Hampton, Meredith, Gilmrr.t.wn, Nottingham
and Durham t» Portsmouth once in two weeks.
Leave Portsmouth every other Wednesday by 8
A M, and arrive at Plymouth the next Friday by 6
I' M, Returning. Receive the mail at Plymouth
every other Saturday by 8 A M, and return to
Portsmouth the next Tuesday by 4 P M-
Note. " The pofl is to go and return on this route
alternately."
13- From Portsmouth by Exeter, Chester, Lon
donderry, Amherf:, Peterborough and Marlbo
louglt to Keene, once a week.
Leave Portsmouth every Thursday by 8 A M,
arrive at Exeter by one P M, at Chaster by i PM,
aad at Keene On Saturday by 4 P M. Returning.
Leave Keerie every Monday by 8 A M, ajrive at
Chester on Tuesday by 4 P M, at Exeter on Wed
nesday by 9 A M, andat Portsmouth by 4 P M.
14. From Concord by Plymouth to HaverhiU,
ence a week.
Leave Concord every Monday by 6 A M, arrive
at Plymouth on Tuesday by 3 P M, and at Haver
liill on Wednesday by 4 PM. Returning. Leave
Haverhill every Thursday by 8 A M, arrive at
Plymouth on Friday by 9 A M, and at Concord ®n
Saturday by 4 P M.
15. From Exeter to Hampton Falls, three times
a week from April 15 to O&ober 15, and twice a
week from October 15 to April 15.
Leave Hampton falls in one hour after the arriv
al after the arrival of the mail from Ballon, and
deliver it at Hxeter in two hours, remain ac Exeter
two hours and return to Hampton Falls in fix
hours from the time of leaving it.
MASSACHUSETTS.
16. From Newburyport, Haverhill, Kingston,
Exeter, New Market and Durham to Dover once
a week.
Leave Newburyport every Monday by 10 A M,
arrive at Dover on Wednesday by noon. Return'
ing. Leave Dover on Wednesday by 3 P M, and
arrive at Newburyport on Friday by 3 P M.
17. From Salem to Glaucetler once a w ck.
Leave C loucefter every Wednesday by 7 A M,
and arrive at Salem by 11A M. Riturring. Leave
Salem every Wednesday by 1 P M, and arrive at
Gloufeller by 6 P M.
"Note. Should this mail be carried in a f>age ir is
to be carried as often as the stage runs, the honrs
desired to'be fiated in the proposals.
18. From Salem to Mafblehcad three times a
week. Leave Salem every Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday immediately after the 'rrival of the
mail from Bodon, and deliver it at Marblehead in
one hour and a half, leave Marblehead in one
bour and a half and return to Salem ir. two hours.
19 From Boflon by Ajidovex, HaverhiU and
to Concurd in New Hamofcire once a
week. •
Leave Concord ev t r/ Monday by 6A M, arii ve
it Chester by 1 f M, and srrivi at tiorton d.i
TitefJay by 4? M. XriarHh#. Lea/e t>o£on every
Friday by 9 A M, arrive at CheHer on Saturday by
11 A M, and arrive at Concord 011 Saturday by 6
PM.
to. From Boston By Concord, Lancaster, Leo
min'ler and Aihburuham to Marlborough, Keene
and Walpole jn New Hampshire.
Leave 3ofton every Wadncfdsy and Saturday by
6 AM, and arrive at Leomiiiilcr by 7 P M.
Leominilcr every Thursday Ijy 6 A M,
arrive atKeene by 9 PM, & 3t Walpol. onb'riday by
nAM Returning. Leave Walpole * very Satur
day or Sunday by 5 A M, arrive at Keene by 9
AM, and at Leominfter in the evening. Leavj
Ltominftcr every Monday and Thuriday by 6
a m and arrive at Codon by 6 P«.
»i. From Boston by Quincey, Hingham. Hano
ver, Plymouth, Sandwich, Yarmouth,
I Dennis, Harwich and Chatham to Truro once a
week.
Leave Boston every Thursday by 3 P m, arrive
at Sandwich on Friday by 6 p m, and at Truro the
next Sunday by 6 am. Returning. Leave Truro
every Monday by 8 a m, arrive at Sandwich on
Tuesday by 7 p M, and at Boston on Thursday by
IO A M.
22. From Sandwich by Falmouth 3nd Holmes
Hole to Edgartown once a week
Leave Sandwich every Saturday by 1 p m, and
arrive at Edgarton on Monday by 11 a m. Return
ing. Leave Edgarton »n Monday by 2 p m, and
arrive at Sandwich on Tuesday by noen.
23. From Boston by Sharon, Mansfield, Norton
and Taunton to Newport once a week.
Leave Boston evtry Monday by 6 am, and ar
rive at Newport by 6 pm, on Tuesday. Returning.
Leave Newport every We<lnefday by 8 a m, and
arrive at Boston on Thursday by 6 pm.
24. From Boston by Charleston, Medford,Wo
burn, Billerica, Chelmsford and Tyngboroegh to
Atfchcrft once a week.
Leave Boston every Thursday by 10 a m, an 4
arrive at Amherft the next Saturday noon. Re
turning. Leave amherft every Monday noon, and
arrive at Boston on Wednesday by 3 p m.
25. From Boston by Raynham, Bridgewater,
Randolph and Taunton to New Bedford.
From May i to Nsvembcr l._ Leave Boston every
Monday, wednefcjay and Friday atio r m, arrive at
Taunton the next day by 11 a M,and at New Bed
ford by 8 P m. Returning. Leave New Bedford
ever) Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday by 10 p m,
arrive at Taunton the next day by 11 a m, and at
Boston by 8 p m
From November Ito May x. Leave Eofton eve
ry wednesday and Friday at 9 a m, arrive at Taun
ton by 8 p m, and at New Bedford on Thursday &
Saturday by 8 r m. Returning. Leave New
Bedford every Monday and wednesday by 9 a m.
arrive at Trunton by 8 p m, and at Boston on
Tuesday and Thursday by 7 p m.
26. From New Bedford to Nantucket, twice a
week from November Ito May 1. Leave New
Bedford every Friday and Monday by 6 a m, ar
rive at Nantucket in the evening. Leave Nantuc
ket every Saturday and Tuesday by 10 a m, and
arriye at New Bedford in the evening.
From May Ito November 1. Leave New Bed
ford every Monday, wednesday and Friday by 10
a m, and arrive at Nantucket in the evening. Re
turning. Leave Nantucket every Tue'day,Thurf
day and Saturday at 8 a M,and arrive at New Bed
ford in the eveningt winds and tide permitting.
27. From Taunton by Dighton and Semerfetto
warren once a week.
Leave Taunton every wednesday by 5 a m, and
arrive at warren by 10 a m. Leave warren by j
p m, and arrive at Taunton by 6 r m.
28. From Boston byDedham, Providence, Plain
field, Norwich, New London, Saybrook, Killing
worth, Guilford and New Haven to New York
three times a week.
From May 1 to November I. Leavfc Boston eve
ry Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by 10 a m,
arrive at Providence by 6 p m, anrive at Norwich
on wednesday, Friday and Monday by noon, at
New London by 3 p m, arrive at New Haven on
Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at Stan
ford by 9 p m, and at New York on Friday, Mon
day and wednesday by noon. Returning. Leave
New York every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
by io a m, arrive at New Haven on wednesday,
Friday and Monday by 2 p m, at Norwich on
Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at Pro
vidence by 8 p m, and at Boston on Friday, Mon
day and wednesday by I ? m.
November Ito May I. Leave Boston every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by 9 a M, ar
rive at providence the pext days by 9 a m, at New
London every Thursday, Saturday and Tues
day by noon, at New Haven on Friday, Monday
and wednesday by 3 p m, at Stratford by 8 p m,
and arrive at New York on Monday, wednesday
and Friday by ham. Returning. Leave New
York every Saturday, Tuesday and Thursday by 11
a m, arrive at Stratford the next days by 8 p m, at
New Haven on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
by 9 a m, at New London on wednesday, Friday
and Monday by 3 p m, at providence, Thursday,
Saturday and Tuesday by 4 p m, at Boston on Fri
day, Monday and wednesday by 3 p m.
29. From Boston byDedham, Mendon, pomfret
and Tolland to Hartford once a week.
Leave Boston every Thursday by 7 a m , arrive
at Hartford the next Saturday by 6 pm. Return
ing. Leave Hartford every Monday by 8 A M,
and arrive at Boston on wednesday by 5 p m.
30. From New Bedford to Newport once a
week.
Leave New Bedford every Thursday by 6 a m,
and arrive at Newport by 4p m. Leave Newport
every Friday by 8 am, and arrive at New Bedford
by 5 p m.
31. From woacefter by Rutland, Petersham and
Northfield to Brattleborough once a week.
Ltfeve worcester every Tuesday by 1 p m. and
arrive at Brattleborough on wednesday by 6 p m.
Returning. Leave Brattleborough every Thurs
day by 6 a m, and arrive at worcester on Friday
noon.
32. From Brookfield by Belchertown, North
ampton, worthington,pittsfield and New Lebanon
to Albany
Leave Brookficld every Tuesday and Friday by
9 AM, arrive at Northampton by 6p m. Leave
Northampton every wednesday and Saturday at 5
a m, arrive at pittsfield by I P M, and at Albany
on Thursday and Monday by 7 p m. Returniug.
Leave Albany every wednesday and Saturday at 5
a m, arrive at pittsfield by 5 p m, at Nortiiamp
ton on Thursday and Monday by 7 r m, and ar
rive at Brookfield on Friday and Tuesday by 4
P M.
33. From Springfield by Weflfield and Stock
bridge to Kindcrhook once a week.
May 1 to November 1. Leave Springfield eve
ry Tuesday by 3 p M, arrive at Kinderh«ok en
Thursday by 6 P M. Returning. Leave Kinder
hook every Friday by 9 a m, arrive at Stock
bridge by 3p m. Leave Stockbridge on Monday
by 6 a m , and arrive at Springfield by 7 p m .
November 1 to May 1. Leave Springfield every
wednesday at 6 a m, and arrive atKinderhook on
Thursday by 2p m. Returning. Leave Kinder
hook on Thursday by 4 r m, arrive at Stockbridge
on Friday noon. Leave Stockbridge every Tues
day at 6 a m, and arrive at Springfield by 7 p m.
34 • From Sufßeld by Weft Spi mgfield, Northamp
ton, Greenfield, Braitleborough, Weilminiter, Wal
poie, Charlcftown and Windfoi to Hanover twice a
week.
Leave SufHcJd every Tuesday and Friday at am,
rrive at Northampton by 1 r M,at Walpoleon V/e<U
nefday and Saturday by 5 p m, at Windsor on Mon
day tnd Thuriday by c r m, and at Ha» over by 7 f
m. Returning, Leave Ha*ov<r every Tuesday and
Friday by 6 a m, arrive at Windsor by 1 r M,at Wal
pole on Wednesday and Saturday by 7 p m, and at
on Thursday and Monday by u<aon, and
-at Suffield by 7 p m.
35 From Hanover by Orford and HaverhiU, to
Newbury rncea week.
Leave Hanrwer every Wednesday by 6 a m, arrive
at HaverhilJ by 4 p m, and at Newbury by $ r m.
Kctuini.'kg. Leave Nfc.woury every Thu-fday by 6 a
m, arrive at Haverliillby 8a m, and Hanover by
6 r m.
vi RMoyr.
36. From Windsor, by Rovaifton, Randolph, Wil
liamtlon aud to Burlington once in two
weeks.
Leave Windsor every other Thursday by 6 a m,
and arrive at Burliugtorlthe next Saturday by 6 e m.
Returning. Leave Burlington every other Monday
by 6 a m, aid arrive at Windsor on Wednesday by 6
r m
37. From Windsor to Ru lando'cea week.
Leave Rutland every Monday bv 7 a M, and arrive
at Windsor on Tuesday bv 6 pm. R-.turning.
Lc*ave Windsor every Wednesday by 6 am, aud ar
rive at Rutland on Thurlday by 6 r m.
38. From Burlington by Vergenncs and Middle
bury to Rutland once a week.
Leave Burlington every T uirfday by 8 a m, and
anivcat Rutland on Saturday by 6p m. Returning.
Leave Rutland every Monday by 8 a m. and arrive at
Burlington on Wednesday noon.
39 F* n Rutland by Manchester, Bennington,
Lanfingb irg and Troy to Albany.
Leave Rutland everv Monday at 8 a M,and arrive
at Albany the next Wednesday by 6 p -m. Return
ing.' Leave Albany" every Thursday by 8a m, and
arrive at Benningtou by 7 pv« Leave Bennington
on Friday by 8 a m, and arrive at Rutland on Satur
day by 7 ? m-
R HIDE-ISLAND.
40. From Providence by Briitol and Warren to
Newport.
Leave Providence every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday by 7 a m, andar-ive at Newport the fame
days bv 5 PM. Returning. Leave Newport every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday jy 8 am, and ar
rive at Providence by 4 p m.
41. From Providence by East Greenwich, New
port, South Kingston, Westerly and Stonington Point
to New London once a week.
Leave Providence every Tuesday by 8 a w, and
arrive at Newport by 6 pm, leave Newport every
Wednesday by 6 a m, and arrive at New London on
Thursday by noon. Returning. Leave New Lon
don 011 Thursday by 3 p m, and arrive at Newport on
Friday by 6 P m, leave Newport on Monday by 7 a
m, and arrive at Providence by 5 p m.
CONNECTICUT.
42. From Hartford by Windham to Norwich
once a week.
Leave Hartford every Tuesday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at Norwich by 7 pm. Returning. Leave Nor
wich every Monday by 6 a m, and arrive at Hartford
by 7 p m«
43. From Hartford by Middletown, Modus Land
ing and Colchester to New-London, once a week.
Leave Hartford every Tuesday at 1 p m, and arrive
at New London on Wednesday by 7p m. Return
ing. Leave New London every Thursday by 11 a
m, and arrive at Hartford otf Friday by 7 p m.
44. From Hartford by New Hartford, Canaan,
Sheffield and Hillfdale to Hudson once a week
Leave Hartford every Monday at 2 f m, and arrive
at Hudson on Wednesday by is a m. Returning.
Leave Hudson every Wednesday at 2 r m, and arrive
at Hartford on Friday by 11 am.
45. From Hartford by Litchfield, New Milford,
Newtown, Danbury and Ridgeneld to New York
once a week.
Leave Hartford every Monday by 10 a m, arrive at
Litchfield by 7 p m, at New Milford on Tuesday by
11 am, and at New York on Thursday by 8 am.
Rcturnrng. Leave New York every Thursday by 4
p m, arrive at New Miiford on Saturday noon, at
Litchfield by 7 p m, and at Hartford on Monday by
8 am.
46. From New-Haven by Derby, Southbury,
Woodbury, Bethlem, Litchfield and Goihen, to Ca
naan, once a week.
Leave Canaan every Monday noon, arrive at Litch
field by 7 p m, and at New Haven on Wednesday by
10 a m. Leave New Haven every Wednesday by 1
? m, arrive at Litchfield on Thursday noon, and at
Canaan by 7 p m.
47. From New York by White Plains, Bedford,
Fredericktown, Dover, Shar n, Sheffield, Great
Barrington, Stockbridge, Pittsfield and Williamfton
to Bennington
l.esve New York every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday at 5 A M, the next Wednesday, Friday and
Monday at 6P M. Returning. Lea»»e Bennington
every Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by 5 A M,
and arrive at New York the next Saturday, Tuesday
and Thursday by 6 P M.
If the stages run but once a week on this route'the
mail is to leave New York every Monday at 5 A M,
arrive at Bennington On Wednesday by 6 P M. Leave
Bennington on Tharfday by 5 A M, and arrive at
New York on Saturday by 6 P M.
48. from New York by Yonkers,Peeklkill, Filh
kiil, Poughkeepfie, Rhinebeck, Redhook, Clermont,
Hudson, Claverac and Albany three
times a week.
Leave New York every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday by e P M, arrive at Tarrytown by 8 P M.
Leave Tarry town every Tufefday, Thursday and Sa
turday at 5 AM, arrive at Poughkeepfie by 7 P M.
Leave Poughkeepfie Wednesday, Friday and Sunday
by 5A M, arrive at Kinderhook by 7P M. Leave
Kinderhook every Thursday, Saturday and Monday,
at 5A M, and arrive at Albany by 8A M. Return
ing. Leave Albany Thursday, Saturday and Mon
day by 3 P M, anive at Kinderhook by 7 P M.
Leave Kinderhook Friday, Sunday and Tuesday, at
sam, arrive at Poughkeepfie by 7 p m. Leave
Poughkeepfie Saturday, Monday and Wednesday, at
5 AM, arrive at Tarrytown by 7p m. Leave Tarry
town every Snnday, Tuesday and Thursday, at 5 a
m, arrive at New Vork at u a m.
49. From Albany by Troy end Lanfingburgh, to
Salem, once a week.
Leave Albany every Tuesday at 8 a m,arrive at
Lanfingbnrgh by 10 a m, and at Salem by 4 p m. Re
turning. Leave Salem every Monday, by 8a m, and
airive at Albany by 5 P m.
50. From Salem by Granville, Fairhaven, Ver
gennes, Balon-Harbour, Wilifboro', Peru and Pitts
burgh, to Champlain-town, once in two weeks,
Leave Salem every other Wednesday by 5 AM, and
arriveat Plattfhurgh the next Sunday b', 5p m. Re
turning. Leave Plattfburgh every other Monday at 8
a m, and arrive at Salem the next Friday by 4 p m.
51. From Lanfingburgh by Waterford, Stillwater,
Fort Edward, Whitehall landing and Fairhaven, to
Rutland, in Vermout.
Leave Lanfingburgh every Thursday by noon, and
arrive at Rutland the next Saturday by 6 p m. Re
turning. Leave Rutland every Monday by noon,
and arrive at Lanfingburgh on Thursday by 10 a m.
52. From Albany by Schene&ady, Tripes Hill,
Conajoharry* German Flatts, Old Fort Schuyler and
Whitestown to Rome. The times dtfircd to be fluted in
. thepropofals,
53. From Schencttady by Balltown Springs and
Glerilbridge to Sardy Hill once a week.
Leave Schcncftady every Tuesday by 6 a m. and
arrive at Sandy Hill by 4 PM. Leave Sandy Hill on
Wednesday by 6 am, and arrive at Schenc&ady by
4 PM.
54. From Tripelhill to Johnfton once a week.
Leave Tripelhill in one hour after the mail arrives
from Albany on Tuesday, airive at Johnfton in two
hours, stay at Johnfton two hours, and return lo
Tripelhill in two hours.
55. From Conajoharry by Cherry Valley to Coo
perliown twice a week.
Leave Conajoharry every Wednesday and Saturday
at 6 am, and arrive at Cooperftown by e p m.
Leave Cooperftown every Tuesday and Friday by 10
a M, and arrive at Corrajoharry by 6 k m.
56. From Coopctftown by Buttcrnuisaud Oxford
to Union once in two weeks.
Leave Union every other Monday by 1© a m, and
arrive at Cooperftown o«i Wednesday by 5 PM. Re
turning. Leave Coopeiftowo every other Thursday
by 6 a M,and arrive at Union on Saturday by 3 p m.
57. From Old Fort Schuyler by Cincinnatuj to
Oxford Academy once in two weeks.
Leave Old Fort Schuyler every other Thursday by
6 am, and arrive at Oxford on Friday noon. Re
j turning. Leave Oxford every other Friday by 2 pm,
nnd arrive at Old Fort Schuyler on Saiuiday by 7
P M
58 From Rome by to Rotterdam once
in two weeks.
Leave Rome every oiher Thurfdry by i© a m, and
arrive at Rotterdam by 6 pm. Returning. Leave
Rotterdam every othei Friday by 9 a m, end arrive
at Rpmeby 6 P M.
rg. From Rome by Oneida, Onondaigua, Scipio
and Geneva to once k week.
Leave Rome every Thursday by lo A M, and a--
riveat Karwiidaigua ihr next Monday by 6 AM
Lrave Kanandaigua every M ndav bv lo A M, and
arrive at Rome the next Thursday by 8. \ M.
From kanandaigua by Hartford to Niagara
price in two weeks.
Leave every other Monday by to A
M, and arrive at Niagara the next Wednesday by 7 1'
M. <Retuioiug. Leave Niagara every other >\iday
by 6 A M, and arrive at Kanaiidaigu* the next Mon
day by 6 A M.
61. From Rhinebfck by Kingston, S'nawangunk,
Wardfbridge,'Goihen, Hamburg, Newtown, Jonn
fonfburg and Hope, to Eaflon.'ooce a wrek.
Leave EaQon every Thurlday k>y 3 P M, and anive
at Rhincbcck thenext Sunday by 5P M. Returning.
Leave Rhineheck • ¥*ry Monday by 8 A M, and arrive
at Ealton en Thursday by to A M.
ба. Fiom New York by Hackenfack, Paramus,
New Antrim and Cbefter to Goihen once a week.
Leave New York every Friday at 7 A M, and ar
rive at Goihen on Saturday by 6 P M. Returning.
Leave Goihen every Tuesday at 6 A M, and arirve at
New York on Wednesday by 6 P M.
63. From Filhkiliby Ncwburgand New Windsor
to Goihen once a week.
Leave Fifhkillevcry Wednesday by 7 A M, and
arrive at Goihen tyy 5 P M. Leave Goihen every
Tuesday at 7 A M,Sund arrive at Filhkill by 5 P M.
64. From New \»rk by Jamaica, Huntington,
Smuhtown, Brookh/ven, Suffolk, Southampton <sc
lii idgehampton to Sagharbour once a week.
1 Leave New Turk every Thursday at 10 A M, and
arrive at Sagharbour the next Saturday by 6 P M.
Leave Sagharbour every Monday at 8 A M, and ar
rive at New York on Wednesday by 5 P M.
NEIV-JERStz.
65. From Woodbridge to Amboy three times a
week.
Leave Wood bridge every Monday, Wednesday 61
Friday at 8 A M» and airive at Amboy by 9 A M.
Leave Amboy at noon and arrive at Woodbridge by
1 PM.
бб. From Trenton by Allentown, Monmouth
court-houle, Shrewsbury* Middletown Point, Spotf
wood, New Brunfwick, Sornerfet, New Germamon,
Pittfton and FJemington to Trenton once a week.
Leave Trentou every Tuelday by 10 A M, and re
turn to Trenton the next Tuesday by 6 A M.
67. From Philadelphia by Taunton and Atfion to
I Tuckerton once in two weeks.
Leave Philadelphia every other Wednesday by 3
P M, arrive at Tuckerton on Thursday by 6 P M.
Leave Tuckerton every other Tuesday by 6 A M, and
arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday by 9 A M.
68. From Philadelphia by Woodbury, Swedelbo
rough, Woodftown and Salem to Bridgetown Once a
week.
Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday afternoon by
3 o'clock, and arrive 3t Bridgetown on Friday by 2
PM. Leave Bridgetown on Saturday at 8A M, and
arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday at 9 A M.
69* From Philadelphia by Jenkintown, Plumftead
and Pipers by Bethlehem to Eaiton once a week.
Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday by 10 A M,
and arrive at Eafton on Thursday by 2P M. Return
ing. Leave Eaiton every Monday at 9 A M, and ar
rive at Philadelphia on Tuesday by 3 P M.
70. From Plumftead by Pipers and Alexandria to
Pittfton once a week.
Leave Plumftead every Thursday by 5 A M, arrive
at Pittfton by 11 A M. Leave Pittfton by 1 P M,
and arrive at Plumftead by 7 P M.
71. From Eafton to Wilkefbarre once a week.
Leave Eaiton every Thursday by 3 PM, and arrive
at Wilkelbarre on Saturday noon. Returning. Leave
Wiikelbarrre every Tuesday noon, and arrive at Ea
fton every Thursday by noon.
72. From Philadelphia by Norriftown, Trap,
Pottfgrove, Reading, Lebanon and Harrifburg to
Carlille.
O&ober 1510 April 15. Leave Philadelphia every
Tuesday and Thursday at sunset, arrive at Reading
every Thursday and Saturday at 4 PM. Leave Read
ing every Friday at 8 AM, arrive at Carlisle every
Sunday by 11 A JVi. Returning Leave Carlille eve
ry Sunday by 2 P M, arrive at Reading on Tuesday
by 4 P M, leave Reading every Wednesday aud
Monday by 8 A M, and arrive at Philadelphia on
Thursday and Tuesday by 4 P M.
April *5» to O&ober 15. Leave Philadelphia eve
ry Wednelday and Friday at 8 A M, arrive at Read
ing on Thurlday aud Saturday by ii AM. Leave
Reading every 1 hurfday noon, and arrive at Carlisle
thenextSaturdayby.il A M. Returning. Leave
Carlille every Monday noon, arrive at Reading 011
Tuesday by 7P M. Leave Reading every Wednes
day and Monday at 8 A M, and arrive at Philadel
phia on Thursday and Tuesday by 9 A M
73. From Reading by Hamburg. Sunbury and
Northumberland to Louifburg once a week.
Leave Reading every Eriday at 6 A M, and arrive
at Louifburg on Monday by 10 A M. Reluming.
Leave Louifburg every Tuesday noon, and arrive at
Reading on Thursday by 4 P M.
74. From Harrifburg by Petersburg, Mi!lerllown,
Thompfontown, Mifllintown, Louiftown, Hunting
don, Alexandria, Centre Furnace, Belle Fount, Milel
burg, Aaronfburg, Mifflin burg, Louilburg, Northum
berland, Sunbury and Halilax to Harrifburg once in
two weeks.
Leave Hairilburg every Saturday by 6 A M, wait
ing at each poll-office which lhall be eftablilhed on
the route, two hours, and return again to Harrifburg
the next Monday by 8 A M,
75. From Sornerfet by Connelifville to Union once
a week.
Leave Somerlet every Thursday by 5 A. M. arrive
at Union by 4P. M. Leave Union every Friday by
8 A. M. and arrive atSomerfet.bY 7 P. My
76. From Pittfb irg by Cannonlburg, Walh'n:ton,
Well Liberty and Wheeling, to the mouth of Fiih
ing Creek, once a week.
Leave Pittfburg every Friday by noon, and arrive
at Filhing Creek on Sunday by 9A M. Returning.
Leave Filhing Creek evt ry Wednesday by 4 P M,
and arrive at Pi tfburgthe next Friday by to A M.
77. From Preston by Walhington to Cincinnati
once a week.
Leave Preston every Friday at nooo, arrive atWafti
. ington by 8 PM, and at Cincinnati the next Monday
noon. Returning. Leave Cincinnati-every Tuesday
at 6 AM, and arrive at Walhington on Wednesday
by 5P M. Leave Walhington at 9P M, and arrive
at Preston on Friday by u-| A M.
From Peterlburg by City Point to Bermuda Hund
red, three times a week.
Leave Peterlburg every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday by $ A M, and arrive at Bermuda Hundred
by to AM. Leave Bermuda Hundred by 11 AM,
add arrive at Petcilburg by 3 P M, on the fame days.
KENTUCKY.
78 From Walhington by Springfield, Bourbon,
Lexington, Frankfoit and Harrodlburg to Danville
once a week,
Leave Walhington every Saturday by 8 A M, and
arrive at Danville the next Monday by 5P M. Re
turning. Leave Danville every Tuesday by 8 AM,
and arrive at Lexington on Wednesday noon, and at
Walhington on Thursday by 6 P M.
79. From Danville to Lcu.fville by Bcardftown
onee in two weeks.
Leave Danville eytry other Tuesday bv noon, ar
rive at Louisville the next Thuifday by 3 PM.
Returning Leave Louisville every other Friday Jay
6 A M, and airive at Danville on Saturday by 6 P M.
80. From Danville by Stamford and Cumberland
Gap to Moffat\ store in Terinel&e once a week.
Leave Danville every Monday at 2 P M, and arrive
at Moffat's store the next Thursday bv 6 P M. Leave
Moffat's store every Friday bv 6 A M, aud arrive at
Danville on Monday by 10 A M_
TENNESSEE.
81. From Knoxville by South Weft Point and
Fort Blount and C;aig F*;rt to NalhviUe once in two
weeks-
Leave Knoxville every other Tuesday by 8 A M,
and arrive at Nashville the next Monday by 9 A M.
Returning. Leave NalhviUe every other Mondayby
3 ** M, aud airive at Knoxville the next Saturday by
8 PM. 7 '
MARYLAND AND VIRGINIA.
82. From Baltimore by Ellieot's Lower Mills,
Montgomery Court Hc-ufe, Charlefburg, Leefbuig,
Middleburgand Warrenton to Culpeper, c. H. once a
week.
Leave Baltimore every Monday noon, arrive at
Leclhurg on Tuesday evening, and at Culpeper Court
Houfc the next Thui (day ncpn. Returning. Leave
Cul jepcr Court House every Friday noon and ariive
at Bal'imote the next Monday by o A M.
83. From AJlei/k Frtfb by Luclow's ferry to Port
Conway in Virginia ooce in tvv a weeks,
Leave A'leu'i Fieffi every oil.er Monday by 6 AM,
and arrive at Putt Conway by 6P M. Returning,
Leave Port Cnwav every other Tnefiiay by 8 AM,
and arrive at Allen's Freffi by 7 P M.
84. From Morgantowp by Petty JohntotoClarkf- •
bury once in two weeks.
Leave Mrwgantnwn every other Monday by A
M, and arrive at Chrkftiurg bv j PM. Rrtu nine.
Leave Clarkfburj»ev.erv otberTu:fday by 8 A M, and
arrive at Morfantown bv 8 P M.
8,5. Fropi Tpdds to King aqd Queen, c." H. ooce a
week.
Leave Tnddi every Thursday by o A M, arrive at
Kinp and Qurrn bv 11 A M Leave Kin* and Queen
at t P M, and arrive at Todds bv 6 P Mi
86. From Halifax by Dartvitle to Cafwc'.l court
house once in two weeks.
Lrpve H- lifnx com f-lioufe every other Tucfdav bv
a PM, arrive at CafwellcOnrt-hnufe the next Wfd
nrfdav by 6P M Returning. Leave CafweirC. H.
ever y othrrThmH»yby6 <H, arid arrive at Halifax
court-house on Friday by nonn.
87- From Peterfburgh bv SwAer cnitrt hnpffc
and Southampton coart lioufo to South J>«y, onc«
in two weeks.
Leave Peterlburg cvry other Wednesday by 6
V M and arrive at South Qfiay «n Tharfday by 6
pM \ Returning. Leave South Quay every rthei"
Monday by 6AM and arrive at Peterfburer on
•Tuesday by 3 I* M.
NORTH-CAROLINA, (ic
88. Fron Newbcrnto Beaufort and Swunfboro'
once in two weeks, the mail te go alternately.
Leave Newborn every oth-r Thursday by 6 A
M, remair at each of the offices two hours, and
return to Newbcrn the next
89. Fram Wilmington by Georgetown to Char
leston, once a week.
Leave Wilmington every Monday by 6 A M
and arriva at Charlcfton the next TWrfday by 13
AM. Leave Charleston cverv Thursday by ? P
M and arrive at Wilmington the next Sunday by
5 PM.
90 From Norfolk by Kemwfville, Great Bridge
and North Weft River Bridge to Jonefboro', once
in two weeks
Leave Norfolk every other Wednesday at <) A
M and arrive at Jonefboro' on Thursday hy 7 P M.
Returning. I cave Jonefboro' every other Monday
by 10 A M and arrive at Norfolk on Tuesday by 6
P M.
91 From North Weft. River Bridge hy New Le
banon to Elizabeth city, once in two weeks.
Leave North Weft River Bridge every other
Friday by 6 A M add arrive at Elizabeth city by
6P M. Leave Elizabeth city ev:ry other Sapur
day by 6 A M, and arrive at N. W. river bridge
by 6 p M.
91. From Salem. N. C. hy Bcthania, Flower.
Gap Grayfoncourt-houfe and /«ufUnville to Wythe
court-house once in two wettks.
Leave Salem every other Saturday bv 6 A M,
and arrive at Wythe c.h. the next Mon.'by 6 r M.
Leave Wjthe .court-house every other Tuesday by
9 AM, and arrive at Salem the next Thursday bv
6 PM. '
93 From Muitreelboro* by South Quay to Suffolk
once a week.
From Murfrrelboro" every Wednesday by 6 AM,
arrive atSuffolk b> 6 PM. Returning. LeaveSnf
tolk every Tuesday by 6 AM, and ariive at Murfrecf
boro* by 6PM.
94. From Fijfetteville to Pittfburg once in two
weeks.
Leave Fajetteville every other Wednesday bv 6 A
M, aud arrive at Pittfburg on Thursday at 10^.VI.
Leave Pittfburg every other Thursday by a PM, and ar
rive at Faycttcville on Friday by 6 P M.
GEORGIA AND SOU TH-CAROLINA.
9J. From by Robinson at the White
Ponds aad Gillets mills to Coelahatchy, once a
week.
; Leave Augufla every Tuesday by 8 A M and ar
rive at Csofaliatdhy on Wednesday by 7 PM. Re
turning. Leave Coofahatchy every Sunday at 6 A
M and arrive at Aogu'.la 6n Monday by j P M.
96. From Georgetown to Rocky Landing io
Georgia, once in two weeks.
Leave Georgetown every other Monday at 6 A
M, and arrive at Rocky Landing at 5P M. Re
turning. Leave Rocky I.andmg every other Tues
day by 6 AM and arrive at Georgetown by 6 PM.
NEW JERSEY.
67. From Newtown y Hacketftnwo, Morriftown
and Chatham to Newaik, and from Ncwa k back bv
Chatham, Moiriftown, Boons;on, Rockaway and
Sparta to Newtown, once a week
Leave Newtown cveiy Thursday by g A Mand a -
rive at Newark on Friday by 10 AM. Leave New
ark every Friday by 2 P M, and arrive at Newtown
on Srturday by 6 P M.
Note I. Tbe Pafl Majler General may alter the times
of arrival and departure at any t/me duriug -the continuance
of the contrails j be previonjly flipulating an adequate com
p:nfat:on fir any extra expense that may be occafmncd there*
by.
Note a. Half an hour fball be allowed for opening
and clfing the Alailat all offices where noparticuljr time
is fpecifed.
Noie 3. For every hour's delay (unavoidable accidents
exceptedJ in arriving after the tines prescribed in an v con
tratly tUContratlor Jhall jorjeit one dollar, and if the je
lay continue until the departure of any Jebcndmg Mail,
whereby the Mails defined for such deptnding Mail, lofc
a trip, an additional forfeiture offive dollars shall he
incurred•
Note 4- Newspapers as we'lae Leters are to be sent
in tbe Mails ; and if any per fan making proposals desires
■si tarry other than tbofe conveyed in tbe mail,
for bis own emolument, be mufl fat s in Lis prtpcfals for
ivbat sum be -will carry it ninth that emolument and for
•what sum ivithont that tmolument.
Note 5. S horrid anyperfjti making proposals J-fire an
alteration of the times of arrival arid departure above fpe
cifitd, be nut ft Hate in bis proptfals the alterations de'ired,
an i the difference they nuill make in the terms tf bis cen
tral.
Note 6. P erf ens making prtptfals are deftrid to fla'e
their prices by tbe year. "tbofe -who contrail -will receive
their pay quarterly, in tbe months of Jaxuary, April,
July and Oflober.
Note 7. Tbe contraSls are tj he in operation on the f.rft
Jay of Oclobtr next, and continue for four yeyrf, until
tbe fr(l of Otlober jSOl—excrpting contrails for the
routes No. 8, 9/ 10, 3f, 36, 50, 51, 57, 6 Q, 74,
76, 77, 80, 81, 83, 84. 87, 90, 91, 92, 96
which are to continue Jor two years until th ifl cf CiUber*
1799.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Fojl Majier General.
General Poll-Office, Philadelphia,)
May j7th, i; 9 j. J
June z. jawtJ^i
Venereal Complaints,
PUNCTUALLY attended to in every flage of
that disease, w ithott the use of mercury or
restraint of diet, in anyclfe rscent and ilmple. on
application at No. i ;j, ChWnut-flrect, uppofite
the United States bank, or at No. 170, South Wa
ter-ftrcet, between Spruce and Pinc-(?a6ctp, whei«
he has opened an office for the better ac;omrfioda.-
tion of his patients.
2IX in Lues Venerea confirmed, Do«£forMorgan
pledges hhnfelf, that Bofyftem c/S cure'(hn»wev«r
specious) can be cß~c&ual without mercury, and
that all the known rule a of practice for thele two
centurieipnft, au« united experience affirms, that
any fubftitutsTor it it but nugatory, and any mode
of praftic; to the contrary mull be futile and de
ceptions.
Ncverthflefs, he undertakes, however compli
cated tie cafe, to cffecl a cure without i, conve
nience or injury te tSe patient's confti'ution, and
iu time not generally experienced or cxpc.l ud.
N B. Regular att«r.dance at tbe office in W*ter
flreet, from the hour o{ nine o'clock in the morn
ing until one, and from three o'clock in the even
ing u"tilleven ; but any o hertintiat hi?dwelling
house, in Ghcfsut ftrre?»
May tf>.