of tije WltlitZti and Philadelphia I)aily Advertiser.
Kv.MSBR 1512.3
For Boflon,
The Schooner
sali.Y,
Asa Sc udder, Maftdr,
NOyi at Chjfnut-ftj-ef-tiwharf ; will fail
in u lew cLiy*. F#r
t > i"ic » ,'u ov board, or to
yo/eph Anthony, of Co.
For Sale on hoard fad Sceooner,
A few barrels of flat MACKAREL.
faty 13-
Persons having freight on board the faiJ fchoo-
Ker. are desired to call immediately sos the fame.
For New-York,
James Taylor, Majler,
LYING at t hefnut-ftreet wharf, will fail in a
few days, and take freight very low. £pply
an board, br to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
■ J u 'y d3t
For Amsterdam.
THE SHIP
Four Friends,
_ny. Joseph Glenn, Mailer ;
WILL fail with all convenient speed, the grea
ter part of her cargo being ready. For
freight or passage apply to the captain or. board, or
JeJTc Iff Rob. Wain.
J»'y dtf_
For Savannah,
• V&W- SWIFT PACKET,
Patrick Gribben, Master,
\T lyingatWilcocks'wharf,
aD( J w jJI
- I
dated for paffengcrs, and fails well. For freight
•r palfaje apply to the mailer on board, or
N. & J. Frazier,
No. 95, South Front-street.
WHO HAVI FOR SALE,
Prime Rice in "whole and half
tierces.
J°'y 8- §tisth
Fbr Hamburgh,
cha' R L or T E,
F- Danenberger, Master.
be ready to receive the cargo in a few
days, and is afaft failing (launch, good vcf
fel, well found—For freight or passage, apply to
, George Pcnnock,
No. 103, Market-Jlreet.
July 7. 3aw3w
landing,
At Walnut-street wharf, from on bold (hip Man
chester, Ben). Shewell, master, from Boardaaux,
| Bourdeaux Brandy
Old Claret in hhds.
Medoc Wine in cases
Sauterne do. do.
For Sale by
Thomas Murgatroycf,
No. 11, italnutjlreet.
Said Ship for Freight or Charter,
r- JIT jV Burthen aBo tons, Philadelphia J
built of live Oak and Cedar, will
read 7 to * n acw days. 1
_Ju J ys- mwf J
For Sale, •
The fine and remirkably fail
I Virginia and Philadelphia t
too tons. For terms apply to i
Rofs Simfon. 1
June 12. 1
- r
For Sale, £
The cargo of the brig Enterprise, Captain c
1-ana dan from Bourdeaux, now: landing at p
Morton's wharf, si
CONSITING OF
.524 hhds. of Claret "| ° .
lit "fes of ditto | -a 15
ioo cases of Sweet Oil J> J~ F
ll o pipes London proof } I 5 , _
Jo pipes of Holland p&oof) BRAndy -j w
Apply to
Wharton Sff Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
Said Brig, cc
WILL take a FREIGHT for pi
t ' l< ' Weft-Indies or Europe, fails ,c
burthen about fifteen hun- hl
barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a
few days ' 6 ]
Apply as above. 31
M -iy a 4 ij_
The Subscriber a
GIVES notice to all to whom he may be indebt- J!
sd, that he intends to embark for Europe in as :w ,
days; and that he will not pay any demandswhich ,
Ihail not be presented to him prior to his departure, r.
Wm. SMITH, of South-Carolina. d.
No. IC4, Spruce-flreet. Ei
Philadelphia, llth July. t4
— ; = D(
The Shareholders Tc
Of the Pennfyhiania Population Company, Kt
A U E requested to meet at the Company's Of
fice, No 53, North Fpurth Street, on Saturday Ml
thexjthinlt. at la o'clock. ant
By order ol the Board,
SOLOMON JVIAKACHE, Sec'ry. ~
July 1. J l6t .
Bank of North America. ft
July 1, 1797.
At a meeting ofthe Diresois this day, a dU
>;Jend of Six Per Cent, was declared sot the
htt hilfyf ir, whichw ill be p.id to the Stock
hoiderj or their reprclir.taiives, any time af
te. tjie loth inft.
I# djw. J
PHILADELPHIA
LANDING,
AT South-street Wharf, 'roai on fchpofl
cr Expedition, Captain Harding Williams,
from St.Thomas, a Cargo of
r Coffee. Sugar, and Ruin.
t , tVrSalety
F: Ccppin^er,
No. 221, South Front-Jlreel.
July io. s )ot
Wants Employment,
IN a ft ore, a Man who can be weil recommend
ed, writes a good hand, and understands ac
eompts. Apply at No. 50, North Fifth Street, and
Cherry-alley.— Any reputable place will suit.
July IQ. * 3t
A Wet Nurse Wanted.
a A Healthy Woman with a good brraft of
|y milk, may hear of a place by applying at
the Printing Office of this paper.
July 10. * 3 t
_ Health-Office, Philadelphia, jib June, I 797.
r i , HE Heard of Health offer to rent out the Nl< W
± CITY HOSPITAL, usually called The Wh
•uiam.
It may be occupied as a Tavern, for which there
are excellent accommodations. The person taking
it mud be capable and willing to ail in the capaci
a- ty of a Steward ; ia cafe a contagcous disease in
ar ! ♦ Should at any time render it necessary to
or make use of the premises as a Hospital. It cannot
therefore be let for any limited time—and the red
painted frame building is to be referred. ProfM,
_ m writing wifl be received at this office, stating
what rent will be allowed under thefofegoing c£r
cumflances. None need apply without beiii" able
te produce the iieft recommendations.
JOHN MILLER, J u „.
Chairman of the Board of Health.
July 8-
• ■
" POST-OFFICE.
it Philadelphia, 6th July, '97.
THE mail for New CafHe, Cantwell's bridge,
Duck Creek cross toads, Dover, Frederica, Mil
ford, George To zui (in the place of Clears J and
Dagjboroitgb, in Delaware ; Trap and Snow
bill, in Maryland ; Horn Town, Accomac/t C. ,
f H. and Northampton C. H- in Virginia ; ill ,
be dosed every Monday, Wednefday,und Friday, ,
at fun set. l 8t y ,
THE FOLLOWING VALUABLE !
Tra&s of Land,
IN the cou»ty of Glynn and slate of Georgia, '
will be fold by public sale, at eight o'clock j
» on the evening of Tuesday the 17th day of June
. next, at the Merchants Coflee-Houfe in this ci- *
v ty» unless previously disposed of by p rivatefale. „
ift. 7000 acres on St. Simons Sound at the
confluence of Frederica and Turtle rjvers, ad- .
joining the commons of the town of Brunfwick,
originally granted to John Howell, and within
6 n ilesaf the Atlantic ocean.
2d. «5,c00 acres on the head wafers of a
branch of the great Sattilla, originally granted 1
to Ferdinand O'Neal.
3_d- SO>oooM:rti on the waters qf the little
' Satilla river, ancf of Buffaioe tnd Alexanders
Creeks ; the great Satilla road pafles through
fhele lands, which were originally granted to p
Ferdinand O'Neal. I<
4th. jo,ooo acres on the great Satilla river, 8
which are alfp interfered by a branch of the ll
little Satilla, and were originally grated ten "
Thomas Spalding.
It appears by authentic certificates from {,
( Thomas Davis, surveyor, and from Major c
, Hopkins now residing in Philadelphia, that the v
[ hody of these lands are not thirty miles from f<
the ocean, and principally within tide water; '•
that the Alatamaha is navigable for boats and
raits two hundred miles above, and for large ll
. veflels within ten miles of them ; that they are .
chiefly firfl rate pine lands, producing timber
equal in quality to any in the slate of Georgia, it
poffefling the fame advantages of navigation, d
The abovementioned certificates, together with tl
1 the patents, drafts, andother papers refpefiing d
the title, which is complete and unincumbered, c<
arc in the pofl'effiori of the fubferibers and may
be seen by applying to Benjamin U. Morgan, at fu
No. 41 Mulberry Street. The terms of pay
ment will be one third cash, the remaining two j"
thirds in good negotiable endors'd notes, paya
ble in three and fix months after the sale • a di
conveyance to be made to each purchaser on the
payment of that moiety of the qotei received th
from him which becomes firft due. b;
THOMAS FITZSIMONS, d<
JEREMIAH PAkKER, / cu
BENJAMINR. MORGAN. ql
Philadelphia, May 31, 1797. eodtf. ; n
C. IT Whitlock, 2
BENT/. ' h
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gen- *
tlemen of Philadelphia and its vicinity, that he w ]
continues to perform all operations on the Tetth ;f u p- trc
plies the deficiencies of nature with artificial or real i n ,
teeth, in all the various modes of fixing—Cleans, ha
files, regulates, extrafls, and fills decayed teeth with t b<
gold or lead, &c. &c. He waiis upon Ladies and
Cmtlemen at hnufes,' and will be happy to re- fC |
ceive their commands by note, at Mrs. Finch's, No. J n ,
68 north Eighth Itreet, or at his houlc. next to tne ( w
Black Horse Tavern, on theFrankford road.
- ,• , Dollars. as
Scaling and cleaning , f]
Aitifieiaheeth, with enamel, per tooth, c ,'u'J
Do. in gold focketsor fcrewj y
Natural teeth with ligatures IC |
Do. on gold or ivory locket., or gold ferews 10 t 'o
Frf%ig and decay—each decay 1 „f
Filling wn> gold 2 b)i
Do. with lead ij
Eotraflir.gfio the families who employ him
as demist) t _ I
Do. where not employed %
Tooth powder of his own preparing i
Brufties, bell London manura&ure 25 cents.
Regulating, See. according to the operation.
» C. Whitlock will (ell the time of a Ncgto
Man J—he is honest and sober, and has abouL£ years V>
anda half Enquire as abuve.
■ |une , c p °l
Received by the Indoftau,
From Madras, floe
A [SMALL invoice cohfiftin'g of the followiae eoi:
Coals Goods, viz. J;
Blue Cloths
Long Cloths, 14 punjultis i n y
E)o. do. lirie atr(
Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and of
Book Muslins
WILLING Cs" FRANCIS.
Aj.VA 9 ,aw J
By John Fenno, N°- i i 9
New Hat and Hosiery Store.
! °*l- Jnjl Importid,
,rtM, In iktjhip. WiUium Penh and Siaf„f, „ £ . „„j
norj eking l-y
M'DOUG V/<
A 7 ''"' s '-tw H:.t and Hofeery S, M ;.
Market street
Stol'ungf a<lfortment 01 f,llc ' CMtor ' Wthread j
t Silk, cot'oll ani thresd Gloves
Pantaloons, &c. &c. .
I.ikewife, a haudfome alTortment of men's, wo'
men s, and children's falhionable Hats, fuiubicfor
e e afon.
Ac- A eonfi-lerable quantity of low and middle priced
jid A " rt a '' or£e < J in cases, intended for country flares
. Ma y n. taw
_ The Commissioners
TT OR carr y'ng into effeil the sixth article of the
, featyof amity, commerce and navigation, eon.
of eluded between his Britannic majesty and tin- Unit*!
at States of America, on the 19th day of November,
J794, having this day conftitufed their Board,
pursuant and agreeably to the said treaty, do here
— bynoticd, that they arc ready to proceed to
liufinefs accordingly ; and they desire that all claims
J. under the faidarticle (which so far asthe fa-ne de
icribes the cases thereby provided for, is hereunto
£- annexed) may be lodged with their Secretary with
out delay.
„ rC P, e V lurthcr desire that all such claims may not
ng only lute in what manner the fevcral cases come
-1- within the description of the said article, hut also
' fpee'W.y fit forth .he nature of the evidence by
o wlncu the claimantsrefpeflively undertake tefub
ot ftantiate,the fame.
cd Ex'raa from the said article,
' „ " Whereas it is alledgcd by divers British mer- -
g chants, and other* his majtfti s fubjefis, that "
" ebt;> v to aconfid-rablß amount, which were bona 1
tide coiitraiiled, before the prase, still rvsfiie 1
" owiug to them by citizensor inhi' . » >r f , llc
" r ;nitvd States ; andthat. by the opejatioo of va
' nous lawful impediments, fmce the peace, not
, ' OWY the full recovery of the said debts has been
delayed, but also the value and security thereof
have been in several inftanccs impaired and leff
'' ened, so that by the ordinary courfc of judicial
e, proceedings, the British creditors cannot now
/- ' ootam and actually have and receive full and
■J " adequate compensation for the losses and dama
" g" which tncy have thereby fuf ained: It is a
; " g ree< J that in all such cases where full compel,fa- r
.. " tion for fuchloiTes and damages cannot for what, r
" ever reafon,be aflu.lly obtained, had and recei- .1
' " ved by the said creditors in the ordinary courfa n .
" ot justice, the United States will make full and
" complete compensation for the fame to the said a;
creditors : but it is dil'tinclly understood, that
" this provision is to extend to such losses only as r
, ' have been occasioned by the lawful impediments f 0
k; " aforefaid, and is not to eitend to losses occasion- ; n
e y such 'nfolvency of the debtors or other e ,
. ' "uses, as would equally have operated to pro
. " duce such loss, if the said impediments had not n ,
c " ""ted ; nor to furh losses or damages as have r,.
been occasioned by the manifeft delay, .or ncgli- .1,
* or wilful omi/llon of tbe claimant."
by order «/ the Board,
Griffith evans,
1 ■■ . ~ Secretary.
j Philadelphia, Commilfioners' Office,
No. 3 Couth Sufth-ftreet, May 20, 6
. 5 :
1 l SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
I X the Envoy Extraordinary and Mioifter Pleiii
> potentiaryof his Britannic Majesty, General Agent
lor alhlting Bntilh creditor!, and luch particular a
, gents as they may fpecijlly authorize, in profccuiing
their claims before tbe (•mmiffioncrs for carrying in- C
' to effcfl the sixth article ol the Treaty of Amty, Com- ]?
mercq and Navigation betvten his Britamic .l&jejly and A
the Onited States of America, hereby gives notice that
1 he has opened his ofiiLe at hi» lioufe the south call "A
' coiner of Chcfnuijiind fifth streets, Philadelphia, CI
• where he is ready to receive all claims or inllruflious
t for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the purpole of bringing forward the fame agree-
1 afelv so the rules and orders which the board may
think proper to prescribe.
And as it will be for the interell of all concerned, Jl
that the several claims be so Rated, and support.
cd, as to prevent the delay which Would arile from .
the neccllity of obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials,from petfons residing at a diltanrc, r—.
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the I
direction chiefly of those, who, not having employ ■
ed particular agents, may leave the profeeution of
theis claims te his charge and management) that ail
such claims ought in particular to set forth— tr?
ill. The proper defcriprion and fitnation of the Th
creditor or ciaimaot, tnd original debtor, refpefl- <h
ively. ■
*d. The date and nature of the original contra£lor
debt.
3d. When, in what marines* and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant w.s prevented or impeded,
by the provision, operation or deled ol law, the ]
decisions and pra&ice of courts, or reflraint of exe
cution, from recovering payment of the debt in
.qucftian.
4th The loss and damage, incurred or fuflained,
in consequence of such impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen from the infolveney, change ol
situation, or o'eaih of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from laple of time, or othercaufes impairing
the value and lecurity of the debt, which would not
have so operated if such impediments had notexifled.
And 51b The particular grounds and reasons on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treaty, th'.t " by the ordinary course of judicial pro
ings, the creditor cannot now obtaio and actually
have and recesve full and adequate compenlation" lor
the losses and damages so fuOaiued.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to sug
gest that the several claims ought to be accompanied
and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly attested, both as to theexiflence
«f the debts claimed, and such other circumlbnces
as may be within their own knowledge relpeftively,
And wherever the claimants in dating the nature ot
their evidence (which must in every inllance be the
bell of which the cafe is capable) have occasion to
I leter to the testimony of witnelfes, it will be proper
toapprifetbe general ngcr.t o! the names and places
of rcfidence of such witnellesand the fadhto be eAa- ry c
blifhed by their testimony. knji
Wm. Moore Smith. bo " 1
Philadelphia, June Bih, 1797. dim
For Sale, muc
That veil kttewn place, called VjNDCGXifT's
f k it r y, So 1"
ON Nefliaminy creek, 18 miles from Phila
ladelphia, on the New York post toad,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premises are a large two Itery ll»ne house occu
pied as a tveru, and a good oneftory ftonekit- j
chen, a large frame stable with a threlhing 1
floor, and lome out buildings —also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a {noft elegant situation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a"view of the Nefham
iny to its jundlion wiih the Delaware, and thenee
across to the Jerfcy Ihore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to tbe Subscriber,
' MORDECAI LEWIS;
•J'ay 14
FRIDAY EVENING,
JULT 14, 1797
'■i foiiadeipJjMi and IjUticaJler 'Turn
//if Company.
A. r .• . , J"s' 1707.
■ a meetrig of the PrefiAftt and rs,n
m , <«»»ulcnj of ft-ven a! : 3.! -!! ar » uer (hare
Fj«, dtfofercd for the lafi hail vear, which will hi
reuine* by m. » • .. ' -Vaa/yers for the
ead purpoles of paying the debts rff the Cqmpany,' a
jreeable to arefolution of the Stockhglders the izth
June iaft.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer.
fy om t J je Minute* of tic St(KiM ( rs.
, %wir, iul ' c I?tt ' 17 ' J? -
ced That the subscription opened for one hundred
res additional Shares of flock, conformable to a refolu
icn of the xifh January, 1796, be now doled,
and th»t the Hock «f the Company consist of
tw e./e hundred mltead of thirteen hundred (hares.
he Wm. GOVETT, Secretary.
t"ly 10. m&wT'v ni&ruyv ,
e £ Rols & Simfo'n,
■e- Have for Sale,
to * QUANTITY OK PRIMf. |
™ St. Domingo Cotton,
to Superior Old Lisbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
°t In Madeira Calks I
,e A few Quarter Chefls best. 5
lo Frelh flyion aud ) 1
y Hyf»n Skin \ TEAS
Sugars'm Hogfbeads, and
Co/Tee in Tierces
t. larch 7. |j (f
'I N"athaniel Lewis & Son,
/' "iirjbr file at thrirjlore, No. 70, rtdjo\ning
I George Latimer & Son, Pine-Jlreel Wkarf,
t A Quantity of
» Madeira Wines i
! In pipe? and half pipes ft
adei/a V a'nutsand Citron, lately imported
in the schooner Sincerity, Capt. Cop/a -
41ft,
a.j Puncheons, second and third proof, IVeft-
India Rum, and a few Pipes of Brasdy. ,
They have constantly on hand and for sale,
Freixh Burr and Country Mill Stones of various V,
sizes, and a general aflortment of Boultiug Cloths of v
• the bed quality, hoth American and Foreign ma- !
| nufaiture. The former having proved, from fe- /
veral years experience of a number of millers in *
! different parts of the United States at least equal,
• and in many iH(lances superior to the European
Cloths, we hope the manufacturer, Robert Daw
(on, will meet with liberal encouragement in this
' important and ufeful undertaking. He has obtain- T '
ed a patent and right of making and
vending Boulling Cloth on his improved plan for a
number *f years, and they are fold only by him- ro
felf in Lancafler, Rate of Pennsylvania, and by of
the fubferibers in Philadelphia. a "
June 14 d tr
LANDING ed
From on board schooner Daphne, captain
G. W. Morse, from Htfparu'ola, e(i
61,000 wt. Sugar, w
53,000 Coffee 10
FOR SALE BY bu
F. COPPINGER,
No. 221, South Front-street, ve
Who has also on hand,
Claret in hhds. and cases
Rice b!
A quantity of Bristol Bottles
■A cafe of Cambrics
Cloths and Caffimeres.
J u 'y 5- * dft. an
' " * \V<
A Literary Treat. ™
J"Ji pullt/bed, handfumely printed on writing
paper, price I dollar, wi
A new edition of that popular and entertaining cu '
work, entitled °
THE FORESTERS, an American Tale ; being cct
a sequel to'the history of John Bull, the Clo- Ur
fbier—ln afeiiesof letters.to a friend, with the ad- ve !
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political tcu
tranfa&ions in America. 'he
Th« following extra# from the Clavis Allegories, P™
(hews the principal chara&ers that are introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of tngland w ''
His Mother, the Church of England
His Wife, the Parliament V °l
HijSifter Peg, the Church of Scotland , f° r
His Bother Patrick, Ireland 5
Lewis, the Kingdom of France tov
His Mift'refs, the Old Constitution to ]
His Hew Wife, the National Reprefcntation J teai
l ord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain S
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic n ' V
The Franks, the Trench Republic P"1
The Foresters, the United States of America hou
Robert Lumber, New-Hamplhire t
Jonn Codline, Ma(Tach',ifetts eon
Humphrey Plowfliare, Conneclicut chii
Roger Carrier, Rhode Illand ven
Peter Bull Fr»g, New-York fr««
Julius Caesar, New-Jersey out
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania terc
Cafiimar,. Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia feet
His Grandfpn, George Wafliington ond
Peter Pitch, North Carolina and
Charles Indigo, Soutk Carolina
George Trulty, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hutiter Longknife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves
Rats, Speculators F
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins Cap
This popular and
ry of America is attributed to tha Rev. Dr. Bel
knap. It hasagr«at (lure of originality and a
bounds with genuine bymour. It is continued
down to the present time, and charaiterifes those 1
late political transactions which have caused so
much uceafmefs in America. ,
Sold ky H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
South Second Street, and No. 50, Marke' ftaeec.
June l(i. §
FOR SALE,
By Simmon Walker, <
No. 122, South Fourth-Street, tji
GOLD and ftlver Watches 13
Shot, <;cmmon and patent been
Tin Plates, Sheet Iron infoi
Bar and sheet Lead the
Copper (hects and bottoms law
Taunton Ale term
Ravens Duck freer
Ha's in cases C;
Wool Caris tion
Ci.irct V.'ir.e ar.J Porter Bottles'in hampers. and'
Tljy t. eo 'W J B
Ctawtf.
July i
<rn- N O T I G t.
1 ("C holders of certificate*„f'a loan to
7. U \ uzttn oi the States, of .South Carolina and
rs,3 Gtwgia, undar arfaSof Cqrtgfufs. 13d July ,ig t
hare a s- iniortned. that bv lotting thi fame with'
)1 be George Simpron, C*ffi'ier ,i 'the bank of the Unit
; che «o'*>«■<:-> ffiejr tb receive payment
♦ pfincipal and intere*, as soon as «he ce.UftcaKM
llih can be forwarded to ff.jrleftonfor fettiement.and
orders received lor tiitlr discharge.
J u 'y i - ' 6t
Mr SALEp
TDRH/aGMES in cases
{ I) German Checks in 4<jv
'" ed C"Pi'>rick
! ' u_ IXattillas
01 G<Jld and silver Watches
res - Window Gill's 10 by 8
Glass Tumblers in cases
Linseed Oil in cnfks, &c. &c.
George Pen nock^
r . 10 3> High-Street-.
July f. 5
—•> ' • » 33->v
To be bold,
d targe and crwvsnient
Three Story Brick House;
C I I U ; E ' atfhe north-east corner of Arch and
lJ J FoiirtW treets. - eighte-n rooms—
and is in every refpedl >veil finilhed. For particu
lars enquire o£
M. Kcppele,
l( ' 138, Chcfnut-ftreet.
§
Millinery Room,
' No. 15 (5 Market-Jlreet.
S ; -w/ss cmrarxf.
> , i? ? n earl y opportunity of acquainting
her rnentft that file has received by thtf
rtvciu M PfNN ' a varie, y of NEW MIL.
J-irvhKY, &c. which she hopes to be able to
In w them in a few days.
d Ma y lß gjot
Town Lots.
A TOWN named BEULA, one mile square,
r " g laid out on the BUcklick Creek, Sutn
s erfet County, Pcnnfylvariia, Lois therein of 58 feet
f I I 25 r aten<JW fcll'ngat Tf n dollars each ;
their situation in the town 19 be determined by
ballot before the firft of August, and deeds for the
lame will be dejiverd by the fubicriber before the
i»rft of Olflobcr next. |
; MORGAN J. RHEES.
*77» SouthSecond-Ureet,Philadelphia.
I The purchasers of lots in Beula have the following
I profpe&s of appreciating their property :
, I. It is remote from Any other town, and fur
. rounded by great bodies of excellent land, capable
t ot producing every kind of grain and vegetables,
and is without doubt one el the bed grazing coun
tries in the United States.
3. In point of health the situation is not exceed
ed by any on the continent'.
1 3. Besides numerous springs and runs, of the fin
eft quality, there is a creek for water works (en
which mills are now building) running through the
4 Ihe public road from Philadelphia to Pitts
burgh will go through it, which being more level
nearer than any other rout, mud become uni
vtrf-lly travelled : aided by the navigation of Ju
niata and Conemaugh, goods tnay be c, nveyed at
le >(: 2 or 3 dollars per cwt. cheaper from the for
nitf to the latter place, than by the old road thro'
Bedlord.
J. L'emg in the centre of a fiourilhing settle
ment, and taking in the ihortcft portage between
the eaßern and wefic/n waters, it is iiitely to be
come a for {lores, a manufaAurjng t.<*svn,
an J a feat of juflice. Besides the old settlers, up
wards of on# hundred emigrants have fettled in the
Vicinity of Beula, since last October, and many
more havu engaged to join them this summer. '
6. A Land-Office for supplying a&ual settlers
with farms to a considerable amoui t, and in vari
ous situations, will be immediately opened in the
town. The proprietors of land in the circumja
cent country ars fslicited to fend their drafts and
t.rnis of sale, or leafing, to Tuos«s Jones, Sur
ve) or, in Beula, who will give security for any
tcuft reposed in him : with such co-operating aid,
thf progreft of the settlement wil be the more ra
pidly advanced atjd extended to di.tant townships.
7- A public library for the benefit of the settlers,
will be established in the town, towards laying the
foundation of which, upwards of one thousand
volumes are already purchased and principally sent
forward. 1
8. Two hundred acres of land adjoining the
town, besides lots and fubferiptions, will be applied
to support a minister and preceptor, capable of
teaching the ufeful and liberal arts.
9. After defraying -necessary expences, the mo
ney . rising from the prelent sales will be laid out in
public buddings—A place of worlhip, lchopl
houfeand library room, are the firft obje&s.
le. livery profefiional man and mechanic, on
condition ot building a house with a stone or biick
chimney, andrefiding in it, before the firft of No
vember next, will be entitled tofoar lots gratis,
free forever from ground rent. Five and ten acre
out lots may likewise be obtained on reafouable
terms.
' *„* The two central streets in Beula are 100
feet wide, and the others 80 feet. Reserved squares
ond other accommodations mull add to the health
and beauty of the place.
J»'r6- ' jjt
Now Landing,
jft Pratt's wharf,
FROM on boafd the (hip Tlioraae Chilkley,
Capt. Rarer, from Bourdcaux,
CLARET in calks
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
Red Skins in boxes
1 For Sale by
Ru.nd.le CS 5 Leech.
May 15 v f
Davis's Law Book. Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEIN& busied for some time pail in prepara
tions for removing into his prxlent house, hss
been under theneceffity of poftponinguntil this day
informing the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro"
the United States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for((alte t oii
terms that he trulls will entitle him to the like pre
freencc he has experienced for several years pall.
Catalogues, combining the mod varied collec
tion ever imported this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
Jar.o 37. aaw 6w
Jur.c 7
* V'l
[VOLUAIK XIILoft Exhibition 1/
IN tha great Qa>ttliig Room of Mr>. M'Oou^U,. V
South Fourth-street, between Chefqut iind WaW
hut street, at 8 o'clock in thetvaning. t fro]
The Automatons wlrdi have excited the admfr
Nation of the coiifioiffeUts. wi'l absolutely leave foij P
tvvr their aftonilhing exerciles, on Friday the 41?
pf tht J month. After the nxperi'.nents of natural
philofopfcy, the artificial lady will exhibit
1 fire wsrks without powder or fraell. •
half a dftl'ar-—C'iiUr<- . half price. .
July n, ,iawt»« Ex
* ~ FOR SALE,
'Jhefallowing Valuable Property. m .
*+r
AVAiANT T.ot, situated on the raft fide of
Tl.ird-ftreet, between Shippcn and Plumb
, jhrieti, twenty one s«et front l<y«ne lu.ujicd sett or
Hfl#p- -
A fratiie Tenement Wieen fe^t,by nineteen feet, £ h
on the north fide of Shipyep-ftreet betyvenn I hird [Jj
'■ knd Fonrth-ftreets ; the lot is one hundred (jet
deep, it is pa+ed before tlys ft')or, and great irn fu
-provements are niaking in the fflsset—• the above is f u
<-lekr of ground refit" ami cv.Ty oth«r incumbrapce 'fu
—the, house lets for thirty seven pianos ten fhil- fa
hngs per annum. „ ,v' lh
Afrinte Tenement eleven by fifteen fjet,on the ol
weft fid? of Fifth-ftreet, betvriren Shippen and „
' Phuab-ftwets,; the'lot is ninety fiileet J«p,<leir
of every incuiribranoe except a ground scut o-ie 2
hundred atid ten (hillings per ihntnn ; tha h.yft
lets for tliirty pounds per annum. o
ats o, ■ tl
4Vir of dark brown Carriage Heffes, one V
which i< an excellent Saddle Horse >
Fcr ftirther particulars inquire flf.. , .
Samuel R. Franklin, f
• No. ISO,' Lonftardfftreet, corner of Fourth fit. t
N. B. abova property Will be fold for part. c
taOi atid part dry goods.
June 50. 3.aw4w j
45" ; ooo f>ieC9s of- NaAkeens '
j joi)o»««*brown Havartbah Sugars '
imperial Hyson Teas .
17 tubs Quick Sllvef
, Sail Canvps, No. vri 8- , 1
A large affortmer.t of Nails, (harp atfd ftatpoultl
Qaeens \yell assorted In crates and hbd».
London Particular and \ Cities
India Market 5
Tcr.erifTe Wine irt hhds. and pipes
Bottled London Porttr in tiercel
JTir.c Yellow Faint, dry in casks
Slates in boicfaTrtd bundlet
A box of Ink Stands and Note PrefTes
1 chefttJr Goods in ehefts »
3 crunks black SeMngs{lk
6 tons of Sheet Lead
Best. Liverpool Coal, and
A quantity of Wiae Bottles
For Sale by
Philip Nicklin, & Cd.
Juur »4- • ' 2f7iv,d
]uft Received,
; From Ba'avia (via Providence)
\}o Sacks cf Java Coffee of fir ft quality
100 half sacks do. do.
v few Boxes of Spices,' confiding of
Nutmegs, Clovcsand Mace
For sale by
WILUNC-Ste FRANCIS,
Penn-flrect.
May so
»-' "
Advertisement.
ta tn Order from the Orphans' Court,
I will abfolutelv be fold at PtJBLIC SALE, at
Cranberry, on IVeJncfday, tbe lid day of Angufl next, at
II oelcei, A M, alllbat valuable R£AL ESTATE,
lite beloflvin* to the Jtru. Gilbert T. Snirwden, deceffa,
lying in and near Cranberry, in the county 1/ Middlr/ex,
ton-njbip of South Brunfeict, ftatt of S'tui J'rf<yi"p
on tbe /steer flap,toad leading from Philadelphia to Pfenv
Tori. A veiy elegant framehcufe in a beltfliful and
healthy situation, pair.Ud white, with fern etui,: window
Jhutleri, thirty feet front and tiiity eight feet derft£ liv
rooms with a banJfome ball or entry on'tie frjt Jjoor,
three rooms on the fett/nd foor and two w4 gar
rets. ' In the rear of tbe house is an excellent iwo-fory
building 37 fier ty 19, confining of a for
wort people, Spacious pantries aid m large kitchen, with
every convenience, and oyer these are three chambers for
servants. To the right is an additional building 18 fset
front by 19 fettdeep, confiflingof « chamber below and a
library above—under the whole are very fne cellars paved
with brick and conveniently partitiored. Tbe house is en
tirely new, built in a modern fyle, and completely ande
' teganty finijbed. Every room is bung with bells thai
lead both to tbe kitchen and the servantS apartments: there
. is (s 'pumt of good water in tbe yard; and a Jlont and
brisk pavement round the whole house, which is encl
ed vith a har.dfome railing, with three gates in front.
'The farm conftfls of one hundred and ftxty seven acres,
with a proper lion of woodland and meadow, under excel'
' ' tent fence 'f a garden with pale fence ; a large barn, fla
ktei, rarr iageioufc, cow-boufes.tyc. all mrrss, and built
in-tte'tejl manner . with two Orchard,, one of (1 a full
grrast trees, th, ether i. young aiidflriving, conjiftng of
JOO btfl grafted fsuit trees.
. Nearly adjoining said farm is a lot of Woodland,
of tlebe/i quality, containing acres. Mft <1 tract of
land within seven miles of Cranberry, and I of tbe Cross
Jfoad,, containing one hundred andfifty acres,three-fourths
meadow and the re/I excellent timber.
This Trail wilt be fold in lots on Thursday, tbe 141b
day of Augltjl following, at II o'clock, A M, on tbc
brcafes if the nsipfther permits, if not at tie house of
f,ir. IVitkerill, Croft Roads. '
• Forfurther particulars enquire of Nathan'iel Hunt,eft].
Cranberry, of Mr. Isaac Snowdcn,jud. No. 141 South
Second Street, Philadelphia, or of -Mr Charles Swrwdeh
Tontint Cefee-Houfe, Nenu York, or of ibefubferibers.
ISAAC SNOlVDEN,Princeton> Aliaj „;j rßlert
JACOB. FISHER, Cranberry $ J
N. B. Pie fait of the above property was aavertized
for the 14 th inf. but the Adrniniflrators were not able to
get the two febara(e Trails laid out into Lots, and other
matters arranged, on account of tbc indisposition df one ef
them,it was tler.fsrt adjournedlo the days above mention
ed. <s)tmwf>f June 19-
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
11. & P. RIC£, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and No 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the late arrivals from
London syid Dublin, their spring importa
tion!, confiding ef a ySCriety of the latfft and most
approved l.aw Books, whicii, added to thofealrea
df on hand, forms the nioft extensive collt Jlioli ev
er offered for (ale io this country. TMy thei tfore
beg leave to none, that from tlje nature of . their
connctiticnsin Dublin, tjwy are enabled to felllrifh
e litiohs (as they have hitherto done) at the'very
1 jwefl-prices. Tfec following are among the lacett
publications'. , '
Vefey, juti'rs~ Reports in Chancery, 2
Pe-akt's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
' )a the time tf Lord Hardwicke ; Vloyer's Procters
>l>ra&ice in the Ecclefuftical Courts; Barton's
Trcatjfe on a Suit in Equity ; Tiidd's Praflice of
t ie Court of King's Bench in PerfonjJ Aiftioni,
p'.rts complete ; Ward's Law of Narion6 ; Cruise
•n Uses ; modtrn Reports, 11 vols. London edi
tion,
H. and P.Rrci expert ts receive by the firft.ar
rival from "New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Dnrnford and Eafl's Reports, the ad part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
l June 26.
T/> Mnjters and Pilots bringing up t'ejelt 5
/ from Foreign Ports-to this Vity\
\ T Hercas fund r y infringement. »ave lately been
i V made on the lavrs c{ this flat? sot the pro
tfetUing peflilentiai or isfc&ious dif safes, either .;
from ighnrimre or inattention thereto, it is tho't i
expedient at this titfle/o pub'.ifb the following ex
tracts from tha lawsi of aid April, 1794, 7th anJ
Bth fc&ions. • "f
. ■ $
Health-office.
June 6th, 1794- ,
Extraß of an nil for feruling the city and port
of Philadelphia from tbe hitroifiSif/i of
leniial and foiling it*) difi.ifes. « of
SEdT. 7. And be it further enabled, that
mailer or captain of any ship veffel coming from'
fA (vessels actually ctnplo} ed ,n the toasting trade
excepted) and bound-to nr.y port or place within ry
tlfe jurifdiitiori of Pennsylvania, (hall caul'c his ship ne
or vessel to bebrq»tjlit to anchor, or ether wife (lay-
ed ui the ftrerm of the river Delaware, oppafit* to ,
the HSilth-Office- on JHate-lflind aforefaid, ani
thereto remain tir.til ht (hall-have duly obtained.a ,e
ccrtifieate"or bill of heal-h frpiji the Resident Phy. dc
Brian. A"d it, previously to obtaining such certi- hi
ficate or biU of "health, any mailer or captain (hall
fufferhisfhip or vessel to approach nearer.than the
fiid Health Oftkv to the city of Philadelphia, or tl
shall cgufeorfuffer to be landed, or brought
on (bore,, at any place or port within this Com- JP
monsyealth, or at any other port or place, with the J
intent ol being conveyed into th(sCommd»:wealth,
any p'rfon or per fens, or any goods, w?res or trier- A(
'chandfae, or, if after receiving such bill ps health
■o.- certifisate, Ke (}»all neeloS or rr'fufe tp deliver
p, thij f»m- to the Health-Offlcer, Cueh mailer or cap-' "
tain. Thai! forfeit arid pay, for each and every such ««
iffence, the sum of Five udndrid dollars. «
And the erpr.rin or master of every lhip or vST- (<
fel (ball fend a fafe and commodious boat to bring
on board, and (hall in like manjier
conve} hint back t® the Haalth-Office, after hi has y
cogcWdeij his official examination ; And while he []
Is malting fach examination, or in Tate any fubfe
*' quent examination by the Health Officer or Con- .
falling Physician, agreeably to the directions of 1
this ad, the ntafter or taptain (hall eipofe Or caulc a
to bfe exposed to jhe (earth of the Refider.t Phyfi- I
•cian.or of the Health Officer and Confuting Phyfi- J
cian (as the cafe «nay be) each and every part #f the •
~ fhlp of veffij, ani (Hall present to his each j
aha every perfoti cr f'erfons on board thereof, and
aqd (hall also trye- and fatisfaelory answers make 0
to alt such questions as tl>e Resident Physician, Ace. c
at the time of elamination ftttll ask relative to the <;
hta'th of Sny port of place"fj»m,w)iich the (bip.or ,
vessel failed, or hes flnee touthed at—the number
of perfonj on board when the (Kip or vessel entered
on Jier voyag.v—the number of persons that have
since been landed or taken 011 briard, and'whert ]
and where refpefliv'tly—what perfont on board— {
if they have been 'during the voyage, or (hall, at j
the time of examination-, be tiifttfted with.any
tilential or c*nt»gious dileafe —and what i» the pre- •
feat state and condition ps the- persons on board j
with refpcift to their health or diseases And if 1
any mifleror captain (hall refufe toexpofe as nfore- ,
said. to the search of any of the officers afordfaid, ,
"~ or if he (hall tcnteal any fttk ptrfan, or in any other man
ner deceive the proper officers aforefaii in bis anftvers,
such captain or mailer, for every such offence, (hall
forfeit and pay the sum of mve hundred »ol
la*s.
Sect. 8. And if aay per foil or persons whatfo
evcr -{the Resident Physician, dec. excepted) (hall
go ou board auy vessel, before the master thereof
has received a certificate of health in the manner
directed, every peffon so offending, (hall pay the
sam ef one hundbcd dollaki
IT being nbfolutely necessary t\iaX the foregoing
fe&ions (liould be punslually complied, witb,
fubferiber, in compliance with his duty, mu(l ex
r'> a<£l a rigprotw observance of or else be
under the necessity of putting the laws in force.
Wm. ALI.I- N, Heillb Offictr of tie
' *f PljdaJc'.p}±*.
i> ifTw
X, 1... " , ' . . ■
t> City CommiJJio iters Office,
- • ■- -., yunetkt, *797.
" TN pursuance of -.n ordinance from the fele<sl
A and tommon jx uncusrpffftfd the aad day of
May the city cwmraifßtiners,
X' 'afirt their duties, fcilion 9th,/
r ' y NOTICE IS'BKKEBT CIIVEN,
e' r That thechy is divided into five diftri&s.
Ub rich to be under the fuptrimindancc of one of
r or the city commifftcners, whoia to .he. individually
set relpotrfible 'or the cleinlinefs of the fame, and
la are as Follow.
>eJ Driftri<£l No. t. From the fo'jth fide of Ce
n- dar-ftrf et, to the north fide of Spruce-street, un
e- der the Ajperiutendence of Nathan Boys.
>at 2. From the.north fide of Spruce-UreeT, to
the north fideof Walnut-ftreet,under thtffuper
intendence «f Hugh Roberts.
3. From th« north fide of Walnut to the south
'*■ fide of High-street, under the superintendence of
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide to the
north fide of Mulberry flreet, under the super
intendence of William Moulder.
f f From the north fideof Mulberry ftf.'et to
the north fide of Vine-street, under the fuper
lyl inttn jenee of Nicholas Hicks-
I Jhe sleaniugof High-street to be in convnon.
% A stated meeting of the city eomiaifiion
ti, gti is held at the Old Court House, in Uigh
(lreet, every Tuesday evening.ats o'efock.
\ib July r4. - eoim
thc oj Slands for Draymen, &c.
f(j. J,) purfnance of an Ordinance from tbeSelef} and
>iib Commo!pCouncth,beariig date the zzd day of
dc* jtpril, 1797. providing for the appointment of
City ConimiffionerS, S3 c. Sell, the lsth.
>ers r I "HE following places are fixed upon by -the
L said City Commissioners for Staqdr-ftf
r-ei Draymen and their Horses.
f III Vine-llreet, eastward of Front-flreet, on
hcr . both fides.
•J Saflafras, High,Cl>efnvt and Walnut-Qtreets,
°' l " of Front-rireet, on the nrvth ftdc only.
Mulberry-flreet, (quth iide (rem Front to
Third-ltreet.
Front-street, east fide from Viqe-ftreet to
Elfrith'salley.
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's ftcresf, east fide.
Wfter-ftreet, weft fide from thenorihend of
o e m ' Stomper's or Mqore's flOres to Pifte-ttrcet.
, ta . Penn-ftrtet from Pine to Ce-Jar-ftreet, weft
lOft "
ca . Drawbridge, north fide,'eaft of Front-Tlreet.
qv- Spruce, Pins.and Soi\th llreets, o£ Frost
ore street, fomh
leir Dock-street, between Walnut-street and d.e
riffi flag ft'ene crossings, eaftfide, opposite.George
ery Orkley's. »■ ■
;eit Second-street, between Saffifras and Vine
■ ftreets,'v(cft fid£-
S-Jfc Fifib-ftrett, east fide from Cbefnut so Mul
cts l;erry flreets.
t'rs Sjfiafras-ftree*, from Third -to Fourth-street,
,n * east fide. ■ . . :
' Nt> dray or liorfe to stand within ten feet ot
anypumo.
Jl , fe STJNDS FOR HACKNEY COACHES. .
Pine-street, north fide froth Fourth to Fifth
ftrects.
Fifth-ftrtet, between Chtfuut add Walnut
iU. flreets, weft.
of Branch-street, north fide, between Third and
Fourth ftrtetß.
July 14. ■ uiw&.fim
vr
jpHILADBLPHIA,
| FRIDAY EVENING, July 14.. .
4 ijUer to I'tMnlhy P'tchcrmg, £fq. Secretary
of Slate, from the Chevalier de Yrujo,
Miiiifkr Plenipotentiary of his Cqthblic M.X-,
j'fly, &C..&C. dated July 11,1797.
SIR,
. YOUR additional report to the Prefidertt
of the United" States' of the proceedings of
the officers of the king of Spain, in relation
to nnd the running of the bounda
ry f'te, which I find pnbliihed in all the,
newfpipos, obliges me to trouble you, with
tnisletter. If yoiir discussion of facts had
been as correft. and impartial as there was
reafoa to expeft, I mould not have been un
der the necessity of undertaking this talk ;
but the conftruftion which you are pleased
to put upon every aft of the Spaniih oiFi
cers in general, and especially upon those in
which I am personally concerned, corapels
me to qbfei-vt upon several expression?, which
I have noticed in your said report.
You begin, fir, with faying* " that al
" tho' I had declared I had just reasons for
" fufpefting an expedition from Canada
" was preparing by the Britilh "against the
" upper parts of Louisiana, yet I never had
" mentioned a single faft or reason on which
" my fufpickm was founded."—ln my let
ter of the 2d of March, I pointed out to
you the probable route which the expedi
tion woyld take, and in our conference of
the 27th of February, I gave your informa
tion that a corps of 350 men had been raised
at Montreal, and marched towards the
Lakes, where, after the evacuation* of the
American forts, there was no ostensible ob
jeft for them. v I also told you that I knew
( that the Britilh agents had treated with some
; of the Indian nations in that country, con
ceding thq intended expedition, and I ad
ded tltat I had received those aifices Jrom
: ptfi-foh ■who might be depended ort, who
j had seen those new levies pafliag through
e Johnstown, 011 their way to the weft\7ard.
i But, even supposing that I had not entered
- into any particulars, even supposing that my
\ information at that period was not complete,
yet did not the interest and dignityof this
i government —did nqtjts friendly conneftion
i with Spain, require that it fliould have taken
• every proper means to prevent the attempt
' we were threatened with, hy giving fuitabk
f orders to general Wilkinfon, or to the com-
II manding officers of the niilkaryo-force Or
.- those frontiers? The abfofute silence ir
this particular of the documents which ac
lj company the report of the secretary of war
,f your never having communicated to me an)
■t determinate disposition on this point, as yov
ic do in your answer to my letter, which it
the publication is marked No. vn. afforc
mi fufficiefat grounds to fear that these pre
B cautions were omitted. You add, fir, wit!
(1 a-degre'e of candour difficult to be conceived
ie that from my not having given to yoiv detail
ed information refpefting the expedition, an<
from the answer which you received on th'
19ih ultimo-from the Stitifh mimfler, yxju be
- liev'ed my ful pic ions to be groundless. I
it poflible, that any ofie will candidly ima
gine. that if the Englilh intended to violat
£1 the ternary of the United States, in orde
to effect a coup de main, they would-be as in
e > genuoys in answering, pis you were in afkinj
their minister the question ?
I (hall not enter info all the observation
which suggest t-hemfelves to'my mind, Fron
|y your having, communicated to Mr. Liftoi
id the contents of my letters. I expe£ted t)#l
the American government would have watch
5 " ed hi's, motions, and taken the mean&whicl
I have already mentioned to prevent the fuc
to cess of a similar enterprize ; but I neve
r . could have imagined that you would hav
given to the British mjnifter a piece of ad
th vice, which might enable him to al£er hi
plan, by letting hiol know that the
one was discovered. By) the line of condui
r _ which you, hive pursued in thi« l btifincTs,
am coriviiKed, that had I communicated t
to y<Ju more particular details refpefting thi
r- tranfaftlon, you wvnld, with the fame goo<3
natured franknefs, have given infprmatio
11 • of-them to Mr. !»' Han.
j'" But, if you did twlieve that asking th
queflion of .the Britilh envoy was the mo
efficacious means to prevent the violation c
the neutrality of the United-States, and tl
invasion of the Spanish territory, let meal
why you was so remiss in thib tneafWe, th;
, although I had C.qxnmunicatedvthis proje l
to yoii, verbally on the 27 th
and on the 2d of March, in writing, yet, i
he a matter obviously so urgent, you oril
r>r wrote-to the British envoy ,on the 28th <
April,'tliat is, tivo months afterwards?
on I shall not tliia fubjeft, withoi
ts -taking the liberty of making to you 01
[„' eb'fervation which is intimately conneft<
to with it. By the date of the letter I ha
just mentioned, it evidently appears that
to gave you advice of this intended expeditii
on the second of March, and that three days I
al " fore, I had given you the fame informal
0 £ verbally. I imagined from your known a
tention to br'inefs, and the importance
tft the' fubjeft, that you would have fubmitti
it immediately to the consideration of tl
President of the United States. On't
9th of March, I had the honor of Tpeakii
I :t«j. Ur- Adams, at his lodgings at Francis
Hotel, and mentioned this fubjeft as a m;
ter that.J supposed him already fully infori
ine ed of; and, it was with no small surprize
heard him fay, that he ineto nothing about .
<d- X produced the map, which I had in n
pocket-book, and he listened with great z
tention to all that I had to fay to him.
0 f v/as no do ( ubt to this conference with W
Adams, that I was indebted toyouranfw
. 'ofthe 1 ith of the fame month. I shall e
tirely abflain from putting any conflrufti.
upon the reasons which induced you to on
,ut making this communication to tht Prefidei
nd but they must have-been very powerful m
t:\cswhich could oblige you to'remain
1 Icujg dent on a matter of such >rnpor.tr,t!(,
;x ■ '
You fay, in the thud paragraph of your
report:, orf*' y'ftur'--afki-ng-itfe whii meifures
Spain had. taken !rv o'rder to carry intcrexc-,-
■cotion that wart of the treaty 'which'relates
to the withdrawing i\ie gkrrijbni, I anfwercd
you on the 191 th of-April* that I hud been
for foius months - without receiving lettars
from the baron, and c inTequently " was en
tirely ignorant of the il&ps which had "been
taken for- the execu-tion of the treaty."—
From this exprefiion, which, in order to
j draw attention, you place between inverted
commas, you infmuatt; an inference which
in my opinion is very far from being true,
when you add immediately afterwards :
" Nevet thelefi. he hadprev'tatifly informed the
baranhf Lis fafpictont of a pro letlrrf expertliicn."
What is ihii to.prove, fir ? That the baron
indeed had received my letters, but not that
I had received his. The irregularity and
uncertainty of" navigation easily "fliews l;hat
your logic on this point is extremely falfe.
In the fifth paragraph, after giving an
Recount of my .letter of the Z4UI ultimo,
and of its objeft, you t/hferve that I have
omitted to mention-; among the other com
plaints of the Baron, that of Mr. Ellfcott's
npt having given him notice of his arrival at
Natchez. Permit me, fir, to represent to
you, that you have entirely mistaken what I
had the honor of telling you on that occa
sion, for I simply mentioned, not as a com
plaint, but as a mere observation, that the
Baron j in the rigour, might not nave consid
ered Mr. Ellicott as an American Coromiffi
oner, for not having given him on hi» arrival
official notice of his ■appointment, haying
merely informed him of it in the way of a
confidential communication. You cannot be
ignorant, fir, that there are certain requisite
formalities when nations treat with one ano
ther of their mutual concerns, which are not
required between individuals? The Baron,
when he speaks in this manner, clearly points
out his meaning, that, besides the confiden
tial letter, the communication of which you
tonfider as so important, no doubt he expedl
en another official one, including his Com
mission, Authority, orfome other document,
to ascertain the identity of the person, and
the objeft of his mi (Hon. When, on my
arrival in this country, I had not yet presen
ted my credentials to the Prefident,although
I had delivered to you a copy of tliem, you
1 might, in the rigour, not have recognized
1 me as the Envoy Extnjprdinary of the King
1 -my master, for want of having complied
• with that neceflary requisite of the eftab
■ lifted etiquette. Ido not mean to fay that
• 'Si the present qafe it was absolutely neceffa
» ry to go through a similar formality ; nor
1 did the Baron mention this but as a mere
- matter of olfn'vation,. which was not to af
t fed the objeft in although you,
thinking that it affords victorious ar
il gumen't, are pleased to give to this circum
-1 Itancc an importance which it does not de
i serve. Besides, sir f I might observe to you
- ..that wh<;h, after a mixed and desultory con
-1 yerfation upon various fubjeftsj I had col
, leftcd and methodized my ideas, and com
- them to writing, your answer ar.c
d ohferyatious ought to have been confim dt<
e the written communication, clothed with nl
- the necefTary formalities ; but neither do ]
swish to (lake of this an objedl of difcuflion
The proof -which you give in tjve fixtl
e paragraph of .your report, to (hew that it i
r not certain that Mr. Ellicotl intended U
1- get poffeffioh of Natchez by surprise, ,tn<
g that for that purpose he had endeavoured t<
gain over the inhabitants, is merely, nqga
3 tive. From your examination of the t«;<
n persons you mentioi\, you little ti
n expeft ; The circupiftance alone of. the'i
t being tht. bearers of Mi". difpat
1-. ches, points out that they wefe both in hi
h confidence ; and it may be presumed with
out temerity, that being hii friends, or em
"r ployed under his orders, they would hard}-
e make a denunciation that might be prejudi
I- cial to him. Governor Gayofo dedate
is that he has proofs of the fads in his powei
!r J (hall not fail to apply to him for their
} and perhaps I may one day fpt-ak to yo
I rr.ore pofitively-on'thrs business.
o After having di feu (fed the history of th'ei
is tianfaftions with ali tire force and accurac
1- which result from these observations, yo
in allure with a very ill-grounded confident
that upon a view of the whole it appeal
is that his Majesty's. Governors on the Mill
ft ffippi, have, on various pretences, postpone
as the running of the boundary line, and tli
evacuation of the.polls. But I appeal t
(k that vandour which which you have so g<
at uerouliy Ihewn to the British Minister, th;
ft you may tell me, whether it can be called
jr, pretence, that the Baron de Carondelet, wh
in was entru.erd with the fafety of Louifian:
lv refufed to carry into execution a pretenfio
of that tvas not Jlipulatedfor by the treaty ? E
the lecond article it is only agreed that tl
tit rarr'tfons shall be withdrawn ; and as I ha
ic the honor of presenting to you in myletti
of the 24th ultinVo, it is not to be presume
v? that it could ever have been the intention i
t his Catholic Majesty to deliver up fortiiic
on tions, which, besides that they have colt hi
be- considerable sums of money, may-be the e
on feft of political vicissitudes, be one dty pr
it- judicial to his fubjefts. If not to do v>k
of was jlipulatedfor, and the executio of whit
ed would be contrary to the interells of Spai
he is' a pretence, we must confefs that,is a vei
he plausible one.
,g AVitH refpeft to the line of demarcatio;
s's it appears by the corrcl'paqdcnce and ktte
it- of the Baron de Carondelet, wln'ch aie i
m- my poflefiion, that although he er.tertain<
: I, the fame doubts which were fugge'fted t
it. Governor Gayofo, refpedting the polls, y
ny he was cojifenting, that the astronomic
it- observations (Ijould be y beg.un upon, si
It which purpose the Engineer Mr. de Guill
rr. mand had already arrived at the Natche
•er with all the inftrtimehts and apparatus.-
:n- Such was the situation of things when n
on f communication rel'pedling the intended e
ait ?pedition got to .hand ; from that morne
it; imperious necessity, and the great princip
10- of felf-defence, made his Catholic Majesty
so officers .turn their thoughts to objefts of
;e. rr.crp urgent nature, Mr. Blcur.t's lctu
\
t and tl'.v late dete&ed.conspiracy, evince Let#
t'if their ctm'daiEt in this jefpeft was neccffa
ry ; and" yciu, fir, poiTijft as you were, of all
the fa&s, 'when you laid them l-oforc the
President, ought to have been one of the
Sail to have stigmatized the motives with the
epithet' <iCpale\th So palpable an attempt
to make gruu } iid}?fs and unfair impressions
o'n the public mind, id w«;ll calculated to de
feat its own ends, dj:id appears-ftill more ex
tha.ordi"pary y/llen v/c conlidef ihat the Ame
rican Coveriirtleni is in every way anxious,
b-y its own cvufeffion, to maintain peace and
harmony with Spaiq.
Nor do your ill-founded insinuations Slop
here : Sentiments and expjeSnons dill more
violent, flow from that fame haily pen.—
You fay in another part, tSi'at there is but too «
much reafonto fa/iev'e Mr. 2i}/icott , s fuf pic tops
I iveflfunded, that an undue influence has lebri
: exere fed over the Indians by the Officers of hii
Catholic ATajr/ly, to prepare them fir a rup
i ture 'with tHe United .States. Fortunately*
, fir, you have told us the source whence
■ you derived all tbofe dreadful conjefaires of
• your's ; otherwise, perhaps, the weight ants
5 authority which your high official ciiaraQer
t 'stamps upon whatever you -write or fay,—
) might make an undue imprtffion 011 the pub
[ lie. You acknowledge, fir, .'twas a private
- letter of Mr. Sargent'si Secretary of the
- North Wpftern Territory) that gave rife to
e your surmises : We Shall now lee what the
- letter fays.
.1 [No. 14.3
g Extract of a letter from Winthrop Sargent,
a £fj. Secretary of the North-Wekern Terri
e tory, to ihe Secretary ps State, dated Cincin
e nati, June 3d, 1797.
1- General Wilkinfoii fending off an express, I
t seize the pccafiq'n to. transcribe for you
1, some paragraphs frem .a weStern letter,
s " The Spaniards are reinforcing their up
- pyr polls on the ATiffifiippi considerably.
u General HowaidV an Iriihman, in quality of
.- Com'mapdct in Cjiirf, with upwards of tfrjee
hundred men, is jirrivcd at St. Louis, and
c, employed in ending very formidable
d works. It likevvifj;. appears through vari
y ous channels, that they are inviting a great
1- number of Indians of the territory to cross
b the Mifliffippi ; and for this express pur
u pose, Mr. Lorromic, an officer in.the pay of
d the Crown, made a rtcwr thfough all .this
g country fall fall, Since which time several In
-4 dians have been fsrit 01V the errand,
3- and generally fo'rrtilhed witji plenty of calh
it to defray their efcpetfces.' -
a- " A- large party- of; D.elawares pnffed
sr down on White' Rivtr aboiit the 6th of
re 1 May, 6n their way to the Spanish fide, —
f- bearing the national flag of Spain, some of
u, them from Saint JLouis.
r- "They (the Spaniards) have above the
a- mouth of the Ohio, on the Mifliffippi, feve
e- , ral row-gallits with cannon."
u, Now, fir, what inference can be drawn
n- from' that letter ? Why, thajt.the Spaniards
>1- have fortified San Luis, and availed <them
ti- j felvtfs of every means of defence that the
r.d country afforded. Btitiet me aflc you, fir,
to against whom it is that they were thus pre
all paring to defend therafelyes ? Surely the
> I - documents which yoy ltfve laid before the
n. ; President, ar.d ■ th *■ morneutous business
th which now engages.'the attention of Con
is grefs, and agitatey.tfoe pubjifc at large, af
t j iiir'dijd a complete and fatrifoStory answer.
nd , I mentioned to yo\j, i« ms -letter of 2d
to March, that the objeft ot .thc Britilh was to
fa- attack Upper Louisiana, and take San Li -
xo is and New Madrid,,by surprize. It will
to. not be questionedHj ' thatprudencerequired
e'ir of us, at that to fortify the threat -
it- ' enedpoirits. TLi?, Sir, was all we did ;
his and this, Sir, ycu knew tnafty- months pa(',
h- •, yet Mr. *3 argent's 'letter, v<hich ia fub
m-;1 fiance, fays no more, fills you all at once
Ity with ffears and {elftereatbd apprehensions,
di- and makes yotidechireiti the face of the A
tcs . merican
er. | are exciting the ladhb's'to a rupture with
m, 1 us." No one will fay,, that preparations
ou for our felf defence were'-.not necessary on
our part. The alßa-ance given you by the
efe 'Bxstifli' Mjnifter,' with, ill'the appearance
icy of a confidential czimmunication, hut without
ou anyfignature, did-not infpiix-.the servants of
ce, his Catholic Majeily with the fame blind
ars confidenpe wh'-h it produced in you. We
ffi- know from daily espcrience how religioudy
ied the Britilh nation observes the rights of
the neutrality. Witness the American sailors !
to Witness the republic of Genoa, in whose
ge- port they attacked and made prize of the
hat French frigate L? Modelte, as Hie lay at
J a anchor there. Witness the inhabitants of
'ho' Trinidad, when the Ei'irilh, 1 though then
na, in Amity with them, entered their capital
ion with drums beating, and -cdloifrs flyiii; l ", i'l.
By pursuit of a few French, wlio had taken re
the fnge there. These ar.d .other inflanccs 01
iad the fort too numerous to be>recapitulated,
ter make us. lefo credulous on of Great
ied Britain's refpedt for the rights of- neutrality
1 of than yo.u appear to have beep,
ca- As to those tender .CQiifiderarions which
iim adluated the British Minister to reiedt the
ef- plan on account, of the inhumanity of calling
>re- in the aid of the Lmliane, I did expeA that
> kat such vague unauthenticated declarations,
ich would have been appreciated a3 they defefv
lin, ed by you, Sir, who fought in the glorknnA
erv cause of American Independence, who wi
nefled the.humanity of their eouduft in tl e
on, CQU|le of that war, and who cannot be ig
ters norant of what has haptiened Since.
:in Your afcribjng hoSlile-vjows to the prepr
ned rations for our .felf-defence, cannot, Sir,-
-by have, been matter of much iurprrte to mc,
yet after.having. heard a certain member of Con
ical grefs, who is known to be the organ of the
for will of adminilli ation, declare in that house
ille- ,that be ascribed to the fame motives the
lez, preparations we were making far the defence
. of Florida, though probably be was not ig
my, norant, as the very timeof their real objeit,
ex- Thus, then, Sir, according to your mode
lent of reasoning, and that of .the gentleman 1
iple have juil alluded to, though we vfere certais
ty's of being attacked, and though we were
as a not certain that the American governmei t
ter, had taken the proper measures for protcfling
. *
•' " ; 'A • • •£*.-* r . ">"• •- n » V' •i.
its neutrality, -yet we wgre to adopt no
lnea.fures for our defence, but taijisly.fufftr
his Majelly's forts and poflefTions to be ta>,
kt-n, and ail. this for. fearof creating ill-found
ed 'ftifpicions in your minds !
If you have not .been very fuccefsful Sir,
in the foliditv of your reasonings, you ap
pear not to be more so in the method offol
• '-lowing tli, m. After having denounced us
to th& whole Ameiican nation as stirring np
the Indians against the United States, and
iH-eparjng them for a rttpture, vo\x fall into the
most glaring inconsistency in the following
paragraph i
Whrtl >er this flan of exciting the Indians to I
direst hoJMites againff the United States, has
lien contemplated audpromoted by any cf rnr
otvn ciiizen t, ti may be difficult to fay ; . but
that one or more of thof eitivns have proposed
and take n meaftires to detach the Southern Indi
ans from tie interefls of the United States, and
to dejlrby the influence of the public agents, over
those nations, and thus to defeat the great ob
jefts of their appointment, the chief of which is
toprefefvi peate, it certain.
t again appeal here, Sir, to your gene
rous candor. How is it possible to reconcile
such evident contradictions ? On the one
hand the Spanish officers are those vvho ex- 1 "
cite the Southern Indians against the United
States, and"on the other you quickly fol
low presuming, with fufficient foundation
in my opinion, that jt may be some citizens
of the United States. But although you
might entertain any doubts yourfelf ojj the
fubje&, which I am sure no person in Ame
rica will after reading Mr. Blount's letter,
did not this very fame doubtful cafe and un
certainty, require in your situation more cir
eumfpect language ? And if even in this cafe
you appear to have gone beyond what found
policy, the tranquility and iptereft of the
United Stases required how much more tui
jtrft are your infinuationsagainft Spain,when
the public possess, in Mr. Blount's letter,
a document bywhich they can fee, that if
the manoeuvres Vith the Indians were .not
favourable to the United States, they were
precisely combined to attack the Spaniards ?
From this method of reasoning 0/ yours, it
appear-, as if the Spaniards were jointly with
Mr. Blount, stirring up the Indians to at
' tack thtmfelveS.
Refpefting the laftarticle of your report,
I have only to obfervr, that although you
have constantly allured me that government
had not the lead information refpefting the
fubjeft ofmy representations, and although
letter of Mr. Jackson, of Georgia, ap
pears to coincide with your ideas, neverthe
less time has shewn that I have
with my duty by not reposing on sue& assu
rances. The plot is discovered, apJ nobody
any. longer doubts that the ejyxsdition was
to have taken plate.
After having followci you step by
step through tlie vad'ous points of your
report to tfte Prefidrtf, I shall make a short
compendium of fiich as arise from this let
ter) from which it-results.
1. That on the 27 th of February, I gave
you fufficient particulars refpedting the in
tended expedition, to have attracted the at
tention. of tbj6 government.
2. That although to tbi» verbal commu
nication, I added another in writing on the
2d of March, the President had not the
least knowledge of it ori the 9th of the fame
month, and that without doubt yon must
have had very powerful motives to prevent
you fitom communicating it tcf him
3. That it does not appear by the docu
ments presented by the Secretary of War,
that Government had given orders to the
military commanders to cause the, territory
and neutrality of the United States 'to be
refpeCted.
4. That you made to the English Mini
ster a communication, which in my opinion
you ought not, and that even if you thought
it neceflkry, yoil delayed doing it for tw°
months, that is, from the 27th of Febryiry. 1
to the 28th of April,although it refpiaed 1
a most urgent and important objeCt.. <
5. That the Baron de Corondejet could i
very well have received my letters, without <
its necessarily following that W» had come
to hand.
6. That the Baron did not represent Mr.
Eilicott's not writing to Wm officially as a
complaint, but as an olfer*<Qtiox[) and that in
faft he never has done it in those terms.
7. That the proof l , you alledge to excul
pate Mr. Ellicott, 'refpefting his intentions
of taking the For; of Natchez by surprize, (
are purely
8. That & not merely pretences, but ve
ry reafotis, which have impeded f
the °f the Posts, and the rnn- s
hing offihe Boundary Line. ( r
9. yhat the infiniiations with which you a
iK wiHing to persuade the American Peo-
pie ,that our arming is direAed against them, .
are unjust as well as unfounded, as by Mr. £
Blount's letter it is clearly demonstrated to 0
be a precaution for the mere purpose of de- y
fence. v
10. That ybu evidently contradict your- t
felf, when on one hand you are pleased to
attribute to us the movements of the Indi- f
ans, and in the Very next paragraph you
shew it might proceed from American citi
zens, as it aftually does according to Mr.
Blount's letter; and that he aCted with the
knowledge and intelligence of the very fame t ,
British Minister, in whose private notes, q
•without signature, and perhaps not of his hand
writing, yoil place such implicit confidence.
u. That although in all your official
communications, you have always manifefted
to me-that the American government knew
of nothing which indicated any foundation
for my fufpicioas, Mr. Blount's letter clear-
ly proves that I was perfectly iu the right.
I have thus fulfilled a very disagreeable
duty. Always desirous to contribute to
ftrenghen the bands of friendfhip which unite ai
Spain and America, and to which their tc
situation, their wants and resources, inyite "J
them, I have seen with' the rr.oif profound
grief, that the language and tenor of your
/ communication to the President, is not, in tl
ftrv opinion, calculated to prpmote so defi- vc
' - .• ' > 'II " • I- • ( I
> ralili £r. to- us alt. For my part, al
r though I (hall leaV? nothing to ce
rnent the u.iion and harmony with a nation
- which I respeCt ; neither (hall I ev;r fufter
the interests of the king, my mailer, in-any
, cafe whatever, to be facrificed to an unjuil
- partiality., - 1 '
I pray God to preserve yoti rti?ny years.
? Your molt obedient hurpble servant,
5 CARLO,S MARTINEZ DE YRUJOi.
i Philadelphia, July 11, 1797.
r "
l>y this day's Mail;
NEW-YORK, July 1 3 .
r CWfe yesterday received New Providence pa
t ptsrs—they jontain nothing important.]
1 NASSAU, June 9.
This forenoon the town was alarmed by
I fire, which broke out in the roof of a wood
<• en out-houfe on Dr. Gray's lot on the bay.
- Very fortunately fire was immediately
s discovered ; and the prompt exertions of
the inhabitants, aided by the mailers and
- crews.*>f .the shipping, prevented its fpread
e ing further than the building in whichit firft
e broke out. The inhabitants are much in
debted to the American captains and sailors
i for their very animated services on this oc
casion.
June 10.
s General Simcoe, we understand, has in-
J traduced a much more economical system in
; St. Domingo, than was before known there
- in the Britilh military departments.
BOS'FON s J l! IrY 10.
w The last accounts fratm the Mediterrane
e an, are greatly afflictive to the American
i merchants and public. The depredations
f on our commerce there, have a [turned'd new
degree of turpitude and audacity. < The
1 laws of nations, the rights of treaties, and
, every principle of juilice, good faith, and
f humanity, are violated and prostrated
t without remorse, and without shame. By
; 'the arrivals since our last, and by recent let
? ten, we have accounts of the capture and
t condemnation of many American vessels by
1 the French and Spanish, eyefc when bound
- to and from Spanish ports, and4»den whol
ly, with Spanish and American produce, and
, bona fide owned" by citizens of tK« United
1 v ..
t The pretences for these condemnations
t are filfe most frivolous,arbitrary, and unjust;
1 tie wayt of papers, unknown to the Ame
. I'ican laws, and customs, is made the pre.
tenctf in some instances—the pofTeflion of
I the fame pajpers is made the cause of con
• demnation in others. If the right of pro
• perty is precarious, the veflel and cargo is
; sequestered—is proved American property,
it is condemned as such. .No claim is al
■ lowed—no argument admitted—the French
• consular juriidiCtion is supreme, in Spain ;
and its decrees, fike the ancient, but left ar
bitrary laws of the Medes and Persians, are
irrevocable. The Captains of American
• vessels at Alicant, have been told by U»e
French Consul there, that although the vei-':
fel and cargo should be known to be Ame
rican ; ana although he should be fatisfied
that they were bound direCt from Spain to
the United States, if captured and
brought in, he should instantly condemn
them»-and his threat has in rtiany instances
been fulfifled." Such being the.fituatton of
the Captains charged with American vefTels
in Spainj they were ncceflitated to apply»to
the British Admiral at Gibraltar, and re
quefl'from him a convoy to protedl them
from the piracies of a nation with whom the
United States are at peace ; who instantly
Complied with their request ; and at the rifle
of losing one of the frigates of hi 6 squad
ron, convoyed fifteen fail of American ves
sels to latitudes free of danger from the
Gallic picaroons.
• We must refer our readers to our articles
of port news, and to the following letter,
received via. Lisbon, for the detail of these
enormities. , How long the United States
is patiently to bear such reiterated inftilt
and illufage, is not for us to predict!
Extract from a letter written by Captain
William. S. Plummer, of the brig Tele
machus, to Robert Montgomery, Esq.
American Consul at Alicant. dated
' Cartkagena, May 20, -1797.
>. .Sir,
You no doubt must have been a fpcCtator
of my capture off your harbour, in coirfpany
with capt. Crust, in the Pomona, captain
Atwood in the Abigail, and capt. Muck
ford in the brig ,of Salem—we were
all taken by three Frenehj>rivateers, and ar
rived at this port yesterday at 11 o'clock
are all confined on Board our vessels, our pa
pers taken from us, and have not liberty to
go on shore. What will be the event, God
only knows. Your presence here may he
of service to us, and I most earnestly request
you to proceed to this place, if your health
will admit, immediately after the receipt of
this letter ; I do not yet know that I shall
be permitted to fend it, if possible, I shall
forward it tte express.
Sunday Morning, May 21.
Since writing the above I am allowed to
go on shore—have pasTed an examination op
board one of the privateers and from the
treatment I have received from the French
Consul, I expeCt no mercy-—have only time
to intreatyou again to lofeno time in coming
here, and remain with respect, your humble
servant.
WILLIAM S. PLUMMER.
Robert Montgomery, Efj.
American vessels at Alicant, May 22, 1797,
lujriing ta know the fate of the vessels carr 't- ■
<* nto Carthagena. /
Ship Sarah, Hopkins, Boston ; ship John
and Martha, Knapp, Newburyport; Sif
ters, Cogfhall, Boston { brig Venus, Tol»
man, New-York ; ship Maria, Eldridge,
Charleston, 8. C. :
French cruisers laying in the- mouth of
the harbour, avowedly waiting for the above
vessels.
COMMVfocfALLY IMPORTAN±.
The following letter mult be intereftipg to those
American merchants who trade to the Mediter
-1 ranean, as it indicates the'appenrapce ot anoth l*
enemy in th»t quarter. It was communicated
by Mr-Window of this town, wl»» it fttpercar
go oohoai-d aSVe'lfh (hip bound for this place,
to capt. Rofn, who arrived firce our last fro-n
Ali.int, with a desire that it m:(Jht ir.ftantlyljfc
- nadepubiic. It will be ficolleiled that the U
tilted, States hive not yt't «ifL«,ed a treaty with
Ttmii.and the arrangement spoken of was a
ttuce mad.; about thv time Mr. Birlow tffec'ied
a trearv wi*!i Tmofi ■ —As the Dey of Algiers
i- a real friend to the United States, it is haped
his rr> ■» ti<m tu oilr £avpr will be fucccii/ul—
Het fallows the
- w« Lejhoip, I'ftb.March, I7Q7<
JOHN MATHIEU, E% Naples,
dear sir,
I came 4 here the Bth current, and found
letters from Algiers purporting the hostile
intentions of the Bey of Tunis to the Uni
ted States, having declared he would not
accede Jfo the arrangement made in October
laft—tue consequence is, open hostilities on
his part. You would therefore do well to
caution such Americans as art at your port,
against his cruisers. Mr. Barlow at the
fartie time tells us, he flatters himfelf, the
matter will soon be accommodated, as the
Dey of A.lgiers has undertaken the affair.
With great refpedt,
your most obedient,
JOS: DONALDSON, Jun.
[Mr. J. M. MATHIEU. is the Ameri
caYi Confol at Naples. The vigilance of
Mr. DONNALDSONis well kapwn.]
Xijc<lsa3 ette.
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, Jvir 14.
ArfOINTMENTS BY AUTHOXITY.
Sylvanus Boume, Vice-Consul at Am
sterdam, to the office of Conful-Genei'al of
theU. S. for the BaWr»i» Republic.
John Beeldernaker, of Rotterdam, Con
sul for that port.
We understand, that Mr.
the appointment of Envoy Extraordinary to
France, and is making preparations for his
voyage. [Bo/lon Paper.~\
The Committee ps the House of Repre
sentatives, on Mr, Blount'3 Conspiracy, con
sists of Messrs. Sitgreaves, Baldwin, Harper,
Bayard, and Dawfon.
The following paragraphs have appeared in
several papers c—<■
" Dcxftor Romaine has been brought to
town from New-York, with his papers. It
is said he questions the authority of the
Committee.
" It is found, either by his papers or those
of Mr. Blount, that the attack was to be
made on Louisiana, about the middle of this
month. There was to be a co-operation by
sea."
REMARK.
It would have been candid in the editors
who published the above (tho' perhaps it
might have ansWered their purpose) to
have informed their readers whether the plan
concurred in by the Briti(h, or is mer«-
>ly the prdpofal Of the confpiratdrs.
At the feftival of the 4th July in Hart
ford, the following toast Was drank, « May
the Democrats never fuffer a worse evil, than
to govern themselves 011 tlieir own princi
ples?
COMMUNICATIONS.
Garrifcan, who commands the privateer
which took the (hip Nancy in the bay of
Delaware, ii a naturalized citizen of Mary
land. He took the oath of allegiance about
five years ago, before Judge Chafe. Of
such citizens we have many.
1 ' >
Nothing can be more villainous than the
insinuations of certairi itnported felons against
those patriots who conduced this country,
through the (lorms ef a revolution, to inde
pendence, glory and peace.
Let the people be on their guard—cre
dulity is dangerous when rogues declaim—
the enemies of our government are in trou
ble—and tho' tfaey raise ever so great a dust,
their dete&ion is certain.
NEW CAUSES OF JVAR t! I
FROM THE . AURORA.
From the following extradl of a letter from
Paris, to the Editor, a hint may be ta-
Icen by our .administration, on informa
tion more to be depended on, prdbably,
than that usually- communicated to them
by their agents in Europe. If they
chufe to improve the hint, they are wel
come to it. At any rate it may serve to
warn the citizens in America as to what
they are to txpeft in consequence of the
perfidious coiiduft of their public servants
towards France; and also the (hare which
papers in the interests of the ad
ministration here, have had in fomen
ting the discontents of France to this .
country.
The letter not of a very recent date, but
• it is from a good quarter.
" I read the other day a piece in the Ga
zette of the.United States, which proves,
tjiat your government dill encourages abuse
against this county, Among other
of stupid malignity, of which the article
was made up, it was said, that our national
institute, was not equal to the academy of
Princeton ; and that we were a people of
rascals and atheists. I know not whether
your government believes it a means of rcflor
iqg harmony to authorise as much as in them
lies, inveSives, fufh as our enemies alone dare
utter, by encouraging the papers containing
them} and thus actually paying for insulting
the republic. I cannot conceive what the
federal government would be at; but of this
I am convinced that they are facrificing, as
they have been doing all along, since the be
gining of this war, your plainest interests.
They (till exhibit the fame ignorance of*our
-.• « . • « ■
resources, the fame wafit Of forefight, as to
* the inevitable result Of the present holtilitiss;
They are blincUo the" power of France, and
J will not fee how greatly that power has |n
. treafed by her alliances. We do not want
, War vf'ith you, but your abandonment of the
1 principles of the n:\dern l&iv of nations by a
' formal treaty,has indifpofedus much ;it has exci
{ ted a mixture of contempt and indignation.
, "Commoo report informs us that Mr.
[ Hamilton it soon to ufhcT into light a pro
! ~duftion,-of which he has been laying the
! foundation since 1783 ,and of which Pacificus
and Camillns have been but trifling speci
mens. [We imagine the allulion is to
Pickering's letter to Pinckney.J He is to
prove in it tliat the alliance between France
I and America, has been a dark ccrnfpiracy'
from the begining; (George the third, was
of this opinion also, and on this account
Lawrence was confined in the- tower, which.
; he would have left for the fcaffold, if Olter
ior events had not favoured him) that none
' but rascals can be the partisans of that alii
' ance; that the condudl held towards France
| was flich as they should have expected; and
that this republic of scoundrels ftouldj be
sent a packing, and a close linion should
take place with England; that the execu
tive diredory are a set of fools, and will be
too lucky if they are fufferred to gain the
good graces of the new allies by condef
eentiofl.
" I wilh Mr. Hamilton much fatisfaflion
and t® his readers the greatest pleasure ; in
the meail time we (hall set about soundly
beating our enemies in Europe,""as 3 ' pre
lude to an honorable'and advantageous peace,
and then we (hall turn gur attention to the
conduft of your government. We (hall fee
whether they Will persist in tTieir departure
from the principles,of the modern law of nations
—if they do, the lucrative commerce they have
•with our islands, Iforefie will be cutoff."
The only thing worth notice in the- fore
going article, is the modify and decency at
the introduction. It is a (ample of that hi
folence which vve (hould fatally experience,
were the hopes of the nefarious atheistical
1 faction to be realized, who, are now busHy
i employed in fabricating lies and danders
against our government. It is a direct at
tack 011 the freedom of th£ press ; for-.it
ought never to be forgotten, that the freeft
and most pointed remarks on the Frerfch re
volution, which have appeared fn the ga
zettes of this country, were copied from
French papers, publifhed in Paris.
Bache fays " the letter is not of a very re
cent date, but it is from a good- quarter,"
and is from " information more to be de
pended on, [by our administration] proba
bly, than that usually communicated to tliem
by thieir agents in Europe." Our agents in
Europe are known, our governraent.pub*
lifhes their information wrth their names,
but who pr what are the correspondents of
this editor ? Coudefcend, great fir, to in
form us, that the people may judge fairly.
Those of our readers who have condemned
themselves to the reading of the Aurora,
will recolleft the several articles in this pre
tended ertraft, more at in the para
graphs of that paper, publi(hed only last
winter, • particularly that refpe&ing Mr.
Pickering's letter to Mr. Pinckney. It
was repe a ndly-offer* , jmtK a frojit of bra
fen falfehood, that Mr. Hamilton was the
author of that letter.
- .V.* ___ v
ADMIRAL JERFIS'S FLEET.
Extract of an official dispatch of t)on Joseph
dc Cordova, Admiral and Commander in
Chief of the Spanijh fleet, to Don Juan de
Spanijh Minijler of Marine,
relative to the affion let-ween the Britijh and
Spani/h fleets, off Cape St. Vinceins, on
the I 4th February lafl.
(From the Madrid Gazette )
CADIZ, March 2.
" As soon as the English fleet was discover
ed, I ordered the" squadron under my com
mand to form itfelf into a line of battle ; but
the (hips El Principe, Le Regla and L'Ori
ente remained so much to the leeward ae to
be unable to form the line, without running
the rifle of being cut off by the eqemy, who
made up to waids us in good order, and erow
ding fail, as much as possible. I stationed
them oh the rear of the line, exceptihe L'
Orietite.with remained to the leeward flf the
enemy. •
" The firing began at three quarters after
ten o'clock, A. Mrbetween the firft Ihip of
our rear which preceded La Santissima Trina
ad' so that tke centre and the van took no
part in the action
" At this period I made figrial to the van
to tack about, to make up to the enemy ;
but mod of the {hips being not able to hear
my orders, I considered the loss of .£/Prin
cipe, Le Regla, and the reft of the tear -guard,
certain.
" In another movement, which I ordered
to double, and bring into afttion the combat
with the centre and the advanced guard, the
Santissima Trinidad came astern, and within
musket-shot of the enemy's line, ar,d sustained
the whole of their fire.
" When the headmost Ihip of the Englilh
had patTed through our rear, they tacked a
bout : five or fix .other (hips did the fame,
doubled us,, and prefrnted themselves on the
other tack, keeping up a most vigorous fire.
Having forefeen this manoeuvre from the be
ginning of ihe adtion, I ga*e orderj to the
headmost (hips to wear to the leeward of the
enemy's rear-guard ; Sc had this been practica
ble, the enemy would have been between two
fires. .
" The Engliih, after their last rtsanoeuvre.
directed all their efforts against La Santissima
Trinidad, that icmained to the leaward ; bur
11- Salvador del Mundo, II San Jofeff, El So
vera do, and El San Nicholas, having, by my
orders, fallen back to rhe rear, the signal was
given at two o'clock,?P. M. to bear up, crowd
fail,-and attack in all Points. La Santissima
Trinidad, 11 San Joseph. II Mexicans, II Sans
Nicolas, and II San Isidoro, alone held out
1 the combat,- with the whole Fleet of the ene-
I my : Being at lati dismasted and (haltered,
itvflrfke, antTtKi tA
_S»n issima Tr.aiJad
w.l» U tjit eichiii£r raked by a three de<ker
an;! thM fcveiuy fotirs : thcuoh f/te had 200
men killed or wounded, t*'d ill her riegio?
"'ajwtfi she ft' l l fought during a whole
» the "sblo,Pe!a)'o r La Regb,"
1 rmcrpe jtsvtqg romc t<> fcer'sffiftanw, the
no 6' >'>>,£ alont- with theoi,
J Jpirph; PS-Wo. del Maodo, II Sua
>fid.«, and Sau Nicholas, which had llruck
to th'rri.
" 1 ?avc ord« s to regain In the fnrne or
der < t bi.tr-e al! long, and to repair the
damage «Mch »*(£ {hiy had fiillained.
of thy-fhips wire abfoltitely able to
come IB aaio.il; I did not therefore, think
it proper iri pursue she enemy, who, at three
o'clock P. M. were still E. S. E. of us,
and T ordered the fleet under my command
to fleer South East, to donble Cape St. Vin
cent's.
1■• "7 " •
LEXINGTON, ( Ken.) June 14..
We are credibly informed by a gentleman
wlio returned from New Orleans last Sunday
by land, that two vefTels which had arrived
there from New-York, or some otie of the
Eaftei n ports, had been permitted to dispose
of tlieir cargoes, Suring which time an em
bargo had been laid ; however, they were
fliortly after permitted to depart, but be
fore.tjiey proceeded any uiitance below Or
leans, thfy were leized and prevented from
proceeding on their voyage. Two,other
Amerifan.veflels had been brought in there
ria prizes, one of which was laden chiefly
with logwood ; after the cargo was landed,
the veflyl was set up at public sale, and pur
chased Wy the Governor, who had her fitted
out with 4.0 guns and 25a men, and sent
off on a cruize.
There are now jying at the mouth of the
Ohio, seven Row-Gafiies, completely arm
ed, belonging to the Spaniards.
— r — 11 1 \
OCS" THE Public.are rcfpeßfully informed,
that there mil! S% no -performance al the New
Theatre until further notice.
July 14- .
Federal-Street Iheatre.
NOTICE is hereby given, that the Trufteea
of the Boston Theatre, ipill receive Propo
sals 'from any person, or company, for the lease
ci the Theatre in Federal-street, for a term not
exceeding five vears.
Jtlfa, to be let, The Dwelling Houle part
of the fame building, End the cellar under the
fame. For terms of lease, inquire of
THOMAS BARTLETT, Pro's Clk.
Boston, July j. " _ d Mt
CARD. "
BOURNE, Ctfnful General of
the United States te the Batavian Republic,
begs leave hereby to make known to his friends
and others, that he has lately eftablilhed a Com
nuffion House at Amsterdam, under the firm of
LANGE and BOURNE, by whom all orders
for th* sale and purchase of merchandize and of
the various public stocks «f the United States,
for the negotiation of loans, 3tc. will be attend
ed to with promptitude aad fidelity, and on the
tnoft reafoneble terrai.
3t_
20 hhds. of New England Rum,
fOR Sale By
Samuel Brzckyjuti.
No-89, South Third-street.
J"-'y '4- «o6t_
C A U T I O N.
HEKEAS Richard-Lake has been at-
V S temptingto fell a certain mefluageor ten
ement and lot of ground, situated on thefouth
fide of Vme-fttreet, in the city of Philadelphia,
containing in breadth, on Vine-street. sixteen
teet, and in depth, southward, seventy five feet,
bounded on the north fide by Vine-street, on
the east by ground late of Samuel Rhodes and
Sarah his wife, on the south by ground late of
John Pemberton, and on the weft by another lo:
then about to be grant& to Joseph Hulings—
-1 lus is therefore to caution all persons against*
purchasing the above described property, the
lame having been mortgaged by the said Rich
ard Lslf to William Spade.
SARAH SPADE.
eoaw
A Special Meeting
OF ihe American Phijofophical Society will
beheld at their Mail this evening, at 7 u'clock.
J HE Members of the Society of the Sons if St.
George, established at Philadelphia, for the
Advice atjd Afliftance of Englishmen in Diftrcfs, are
reqnefted to attend a quarterly Meetieg of the said
Society, at the City Tavern, on Monday the 24th
of July, at 7 o'clock in the Evening.
GEORGE DAVIS.
N.B. Several Members to He balloted for.
J ul T T 4- . , e&. 4
Insurance Company of North A
?nerica.
THE Dividend for the last half year, declared
by the Diredors this day, is one dollar on
each lhare of the Stock of this Company ; which
will be paid to the Stockholders, or their reprefen
tativesduly authorised to receive it, at any time af
ter the 29th in!t. '
EBEN HAZARD, Sec'ry.
July io. . w&tt'- th '
George Dobfon,
No. 1J Sohth< Third-Sfreet,
HAS imported per (hips WiUiajn Star,
and Diana, from L,oodoo,
5-4>buper London Chintz, elegant patterns,
Ginghams, Muflinetts and Dimitie;. <•
Fafhio.iable Waiticoating, nsweft patterns.
Ribbands well aflbrted,jn small tr'jnks
-4-4 5-4 and 6-4 India and British B'ook-muf
lius.
Fancy Cfoaths and CaiTimtrs.
'h* whole to be disposed (if cheap for Cash
or approved Notes of a Ihort date.
June 14, 'O7. d. tf.
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than uny other in
1 he City— ,
OF FJRIOUH SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to ig by 14,*
By the single Box or Quantify, may be had at the
S ore of the Subscribers, corner of Arch and Froct
flieet.
'James C. & Samuel W. FJher.
Philadelphia, JuaesQ, 1797.Pfopofak )\v«'
For carrying MA IL Sos the at L (
United Stales on the following Tu
Pojl Roads, will be received b> y i
at the General Pojl-Office, in 6
Philadelphia, tin til the 31Jl
day of 'July next, inch five. " 1
■- itrrl
MAINE.
X. From Brewer's or Scoodi 0 -. by Machias, Chan- J r 7
dltr's river and Columbia, to Warraguagusoncc a f
weri. l ; e l
l.cave Brewer's eyery Saturday at aP M, and '' A
arrive at Narraguagus the next Tuesday at 6p. 2
M—Returning, have Narraguagus every Wedm-f- "' cr
day r.t 6a m, 4nd arrive at Brewer's th« next Pa- i - )er
turday hy Xo A M. t
1. From Narraguagus by Onuldfborougli, Su'li- 1
Van, Trenton, Bluehrll, Cuftine, Penobfeot, Buckl ;
ton. Frankfort, Prol'ptft and BcU'..lt to Huck- nr,c
Trap once a week.
l.tave NarragUa?us every Wednesday by 6 A 1U:
Vt, an l arrive at Duck Trap the iu:xt Saturday by 10
10 AM. Returning. Leave Duck Trail every Sa- 1
turday by >m and arrive at Narraguagus the Ho
o.'xt f uefday by 6pm. | *
j. Frotjt Duck Trap by Camden, arr;
Warren, Va'doborowgh, Newcalle, Wifcaffet, '"I
B;;h, Brunfwiq-V, Fr- port and North Yarmout, arr
to Ponl.nd oi.eea week. I 1
I.eave DueiTrap every Saturday by 2 rM, and and
arrive ntPurtland the next Tuesday by 6v M. Hi- 1
lurninr. Leave PoriU.n l every Wtdrefday by 6 n* l
am. and arrive atDilck Trap the next Saturday by Le:
IC A M. j * rr
4. From Porti?nd by Biddeford, Welles and i
Y r!:,to Poftfmfi'th. " UI
April I: to Q&ttber 15, Leave Portland every Air
M Wednefday and Friday by 6 am, and ar- 1
rive at i'ortfmouth the fame days by 6 pm. Return- arr
■tjr. Li' ive Fortfmouth every Mond.iy, Wednes
day and Friday at 9 v M, and arrive at Portland 011 1 arr
thi r.sxt day by 6. pm. j .
oshbtr is <0 April 15. Leave Portland every Ra
Monday and Thursday at 6 a k, aid arrive at
Portfmbuth on Tuesday and Friday by 10 am. Re- M 0
turn-nr. Leave Pottfiaouth every Tuesday and -j- a
Friday at 1 pm, and arrive at Portland ev<;ry f or
Wedwrfday and Saturday at j in. » I evi
5. From Portland by North-Yarmouth, Frer- , rr
part, Brimfwick, Bath, Wifcaffet, Drafden, Pittf- g 0
ton atid Hallow«ll Hook to HaUowc'.l court house, 1
once a week. | ry
Leave Portland every Friday at 3A. M,and ar- toI
rive at Hallowell court-house the next Saturday by 1
'jP M. Returning. Leave Hallowell court-house E( .
every WeJnefday hy 5A M, and airive at Port- an
land on Thursday by 6 P M-' Ti
6. From Wifcaffet by Dresden, Pittfton, Hallo- I
■well Hook, Hallowell court-house, Winthrop,
Mo: mouth, Green, New-Gioucefter and Gray to
Portland once a week. I .
Leave ortland every Monday by 6 A M. and
arrive at Wifcaffet on Wednesday noon. Return
ing. Leave Wifcaffet on Wednesday at 3P M, and ar
arriveat Portland on Friday by 6 PM. .
7. From Hallowell Hoek by Vuffalborongh, 10
Fort Hilifax, Winflow, Fairfield and Canaan to
N. rridgewok once a week. ,
Leive Hallowell Hook every Wednesday ot 11
A M, nnd arrive at Norridgewock on Thuriday
liyfiPKt. Returning. Leave Norndgewrck oil
at 1 PM, and arrive at Hallowell Hook w
on Tuesday by 6 PM.
8- From Hallfcwell Hook to Farmington on San- ar
dy river oi'cfc in two weeks. p
Leave Hallowell Hook every other Wednesday
by 8A M, and arrive at Farmington by 6 P M. fi<
Rtturuiug. Lesve Farmingtor every other Thurf- w
day it 8A M, and arrive at Hallowell HflV. by 6 tl"
PM.
9. From Portland hy Falmouth, Gorham, Bux
ton, fjtandifli, Limerick, Parfonfield, Shaplcigh r )
and Lebanon to Berwick, once in two weeks.
Leave Portland every other Monday at 8A M, 01
acd ariive at Berwick on Wednesday fry noon.
Leave Berwick enery other Wednesday it J P 1
M, and arrive at Portland on Friday by 6 PM.
10. From Standifh by Flinflown. Frybur„' aca- d
df.uy, C'onvv.a/ andTamwr.rthio SandwtcS tn r.'cvv
Hampfhir. otrcc trtwo week-.
every other Tuesday ky 8 A M,
and arrive at Sandwich on Wednesday by 6 PM. Re
turning. Leave Sandwich every other Thursday at
8 A M, and arrive at Standifh on Friday hy 6
¥ M.
11. From Wells byWaterboro", Sanford, Dough- T
ty's Falls, Berwick and Dover, to Fortfmouth once r
a. week. I
Leave Wells every Tu.-fday hy 6 A M, and ar- d
riveat Portfmouthon Wednesday by I- A M. Re- a
turning. Leave Portfmcruth every Wednesday by a
aPM, and arrive at Wells next Thursday by 4 a
PM.
■ /
NEW-HAMPSHIRE. -
12. From Portsmouth by Dover, Rochester and a
Moultonborough to Ply mouth, returning by New- j.
Hampton, Meredith, Gilmrntown, Nottingham j
aed Durham to Portsmouth once in two weeks.
Leave Portsmouth every other Wednesday by 8
AM, and arrive at Plymouth the next Friday by 6 !
PM. Returning. Receive the mail at Plymouth
cvey other Saturday hy 8 A M, and returii to •>
Porrtfmouth the next Tuesday by 4P M. _ 1
Note. " I'he pest is to go aud return on this route a
alternately."
From Portsmouth by Fxcter, Cheftcr, Lon- v
donderry, Amherft, Peterborough and MarU-o
rough to Keene, once a week. a
Leave Portsmouth every Thursday by 8 A M, e
arrive at Exeter by one PM, at charter by 6P M, fc
ar.d at Keene on Saturday by 4 P M Returning.
Leave Keene every Monday by 8 A M, ajrive at
Chester 011 Tutfday by 4 P M, at Exeter on Wed
nefd*-, hy9 AM, and at Po tfmouth by 4 PM.
14. From Concord by Plym uth to Haverhill,
orrce a week. ,
Leave Concord every Monday by 6 A M, arrive
at Plymoutholl Tuesday by 3P M, and at Haver- r
hill on Wednesday by 4 P M. Returning. Leave
Haverhill efery Thursday by 8 A M, arrive at
Plymouth on Friday by <j A M, aiulat Concord on
Saturday by 4 P M.
15. From Exeter to Hampton Falls, throve timfcs j
a week from April 15 to Od'ohcr 15, and tVvice a
week frotn Oitober 1 ? to April ij. '
Leave Hampton falls ill one hour after the arriv
ai alter the arrival of the mail from Boston, and
deliver it atEieter in two hours, remain at Exetsr (
two hours and return to Hampton Falls in fix j
hoursfrom th*time of leaving it.
MASSACHUSETTS.
16. From Ncwburyport, Haverhill, Kingflon,
' Exeter, New Market and Durham to Dover once
aye k.
Leave Newburyport every Monday by 10 A M,
arrive at Dover on Wednesday by 110011. Return
inr. Leave Dover on VVedntfday by 3P M, and
arrive at Newburyport on Friday by 3 P M.
17. From Salem to GlauceOcr once a w -ek
Leave Cloucefter every Wednesday by 7 A M,
and arrive, at Salem by 11 AM. Returning. Leave
Silsci every Wednesday by 1 P M, and arrive at
Gloucefier by 6 P M.
Note. Should this mail be earned in a ffage if is
to be. carried as often as the (lage runs, the hours 1
desired to be Hated in tlte proposals.
18. I'com Sa'em to Marblehcad three times a
week" Leave Salem every Monday, Wednesday -
and Friday immediately after the arrival of. tliT ,
mail from Boston, and deliver it at Marblshead in ,
one hour and an half, leave Mwhiehead in one 1
hour and a half and return to oMsiii in two hours. ]
ti) From Boston, fcy Andovcr, Haverhill and |
Ciiefi;f to Concord in' tfew Harflpfeirc OOCO a , N
weeV. I at
Leave Concord every Monday by 6 A M, arrive
at Chefier by %"P M, and arrive at 3otlon on N
Tuesday by 4 P M. Returning. Leave on ev
ery Friday by 9A M, arrive at Chsfter on Saturday jj®
by 11 A M, and arrive i.t Concord on Saturday by
6pm. ; 3
From Boston by Cohcoro, Lancaftcr, Leo- J
mincer and Aftiburnham to Marlborough, Keene
and Walpole in New Hampshire.
I.cave /.eortiinlter every Thirr,£hy by 6 A M,
nrrive at Keene by 9P M, and at Waipolcon Fri- ,a
day by 10 A M Returning. Z-cave Walpoleev *
try Saturday or Saiaday by 5 A M, arrive a ICcene
by 9 AM, r.nd at /.eominftcr in the evening.
Ltave /.eominftcr every Monday and fhurfday by
6 A M» and arrive at Bolton by 6 P iVf. \t
a?. From Eofton by Qwincy, Kinglvun, Hano
ver, Plymouth, Sandwich, .Burn Gable, Yarmouth,
Dennis, Harwich and Chatham to Truro once a ai
week. L
Zeave Boston every Thursday by 3p M, arrive ri
at Sandwich <*n Friday by 6 ? M,and at 1 ruro the
next Sunday by (> am. Returning. Leave Truro b
every Monday by 8 a m, arrive at Sandwich on
Tutfday by 7 p .m, and at Boston on Thnrfdaj by *
to A M. '
22. From Sandwich by Falmouth and Holmes
Ho'e to Edgarton once a weeek. j.
Leave Sandwich every Saturday by 1 p m, and
arrive at on Monday by 11 am. Return
ing Leave Edgartqn <rn Monday by % p m, and j
arrive at Sandwich on Tuelday by noon- a
1%. From Boston by Sharon, Mansfield, Norton 0
and Taunton to Newport once a week. c
Leave Boston ev«.ry Monday by 6 am, and ar
rive at Newport by 6 P m, on Tuesday. Returning.
Leave Newport every Wednesday by 8 a m, and
arrive at Boston on hurfday by 6 pm. j
24. From Boston by Charleston, Medford, Wo
burn, Billerica, Chelraiford atid Tyngboroegh to j
Amherft once a week. c
Leave Boston every Thursday by 10 a m, an*
arrive at Amherft the next Saturday nooh. Re- 1
tumi g, Leav:- Amherft every Monday noon, and
; arrive at Boftdn on Wednesday by 3 p m.
25. From Boston by Randolph, Bridgewater,
i Raynham and Taunton to New Bedford. .
From May Ito November I. Leave Boston every <
Monday, wednesday and Friday at 10 p *», arrive at
Taunton the next day by 11 a M,and at New Bed- <
| ford by 8 p m. Returning. Leave New Bedford ]
| ever) Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday by 10 p m,
arrive at Taunton the next diy by 11 a m, and a:
Bofron by 8 p m
From November Ito May 1. Leave Boston eve
I ry wednesday and Friday at 9 a m, arrive at faun-
ton by 8 p m, and atNoW Bedford on Thursday &
' Satur iay by 8 r m. Returning. Leave New
Bedford every Monday and wednesday by 9 y A M *
arrive at Taunton by 8 pm, and at Boston on
Tuesday ami Thursday by 7 p m.
26. From New Bedford to Nantucket, twice a
week frem November I to May x. Leave New j
j Bedford every Friday and Monday by 6 a m, ar
rive at Nanttlcket in the evening. Leave Nantuc
t ket evr ry Saturday and Tuesday by 10 a m, and
arrive at New Bedford in the evening:
From May Ito November 1. Leave New Bed
ford every Monday, wednesday and Friday by 10
a m, and arrive at Nantucket in the evening. Re
turning. Leave Nantucket every Tuefday,Thurf
day and Saturday at 8 a M,and arrive at New Bed
ford in the evening. winds and tide permitting.
27. From Taunton by Dighton and Semerfetto
warren once a week.
Leave Taunton every wednesday by 5 a m, and
arrive at warren by 10 a m. Leave warren by 1
p m, and arrive at Taunton by 6 r m.
' 28. From Boston byDedham, Providence, Plain-.
field, Norwich, New London, Saybrook, Killing
■ worth, Guilford and New Haven to New York
I three times a week. ,
From May I to November I. Leave Boston eve- .1
, ry Tuesday, Thursday aarf Saturday by 10 a m,
arrive at Providence by 6 p m, arrive at Norwich
ow wednesday, Friday and Monday by noon, at
New London by 3 p m, arrive at New Haven on
> Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at Stan
ford! by 9 pm, and?t New York on Friday t mob*
Jay and u- "" «7™™nhg. |
. TTFWiork every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
by IOA m , arrive at New Haven on wednelday,
Friday and Monday by z p m, at Norwich on
' Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at Pro
t videncc by 8 pm, and at Boston o* Friday, Mon
; day and wednesday by I» m.
November Ito May I. l eave Bcfton every
• Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by 9 a M, ar
: rive at providence the next days by 9 a nfi at New
London every Thursday, Saturday and Tuef
- day by noon, at New Haven on Friday, Monday
- and wednesday by 3 p m, at Stratford by 8 pm,
y and arrive at New York on Monday, wednesday
6 and Friday by II am. Returning. Leave New
Yoik every Saturday, Tuesday and Thursday by 11
a m, arrive at Stratford the next days by 8 pm, at
New Haven on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
by 9 a m, at New London on wednesday, Friday
and Monday by 3 p m, at providence, Thursday,
' Saturday and Tuesday by 4pm, at Boston on Fri-
II day, Monday a»d wednesday by 3 pm.
g 29. From Boston by Dedham, Mendon, Tomfret
6 and Tolland to Hartford «nce a week,
h Leave Boston every Thursday by 7a m, arrive
o at Hartford the next Saturday by 6r m. Return
ing. Leave Hartford every Monday by 8 A M,
e and arrive at Boftou on wednesday by 5 pm.
30. From New Bedford to Newport once a
week. 1
Leave New Bedford every Thurfda) by 6 a m,
and arrive at Newport by 4p m. Leave Newport
I, every Friday by 8a m, and arrive at New Bedford
'* by 5* M *
31. From Worc.fter by Rutland, Pcterfham and
' Northfield to Brattleborough of/ a week.
Leave worcsfter every Tuesday by 1 p m. and
. arrive at Brattleborough on wednesday by 6 p m'.
' Returning. Leave BTattleborough every Thurs
day by 6 a m, and arrive at worcefrer on Friday
•noon.
3a. From Breokfield by Belchertown, North-
ampton, worthington,pittsfield and New Lebanon
to Albany
Leave Brooklield every Tuesday and Friday by
9a u, arrive at Northampton by 6r m. Leave
° s N.rthampton every wednesday and Saturday at 5
a am, arrive at, pittsfield by I P M, and at Albany
on Thursday and Monday by 7 p m. Returniug.
'] Leanc Albany every wednesday and Saturday at j
a M, arrive at rittifield by 5 r m, at Northamp
" ton on Thursday and Monday by 7 r m, and ar
lx r ive at Brookfield on Friday and Tuesday by 4
\ tM.
33. From Springfield by Weflfield and Stock
bridge to Kinderhook ooco a week.
n ' May I to November 1. Leave Springfield eve
ce ry Tuesday by 3 rM, arrive at Kindeihaok on
Thursday by 6 P M, Returning. I.eave Kinder
"®» hook ev,-ry Friday by 9 AM, arrive a/ Stock
bridge Ky 3 pm. Leave Stockbridge on Monday
lJ by 6 „m , and arrive at Springfield by 7 pm .
November 1 to M?.y X. Leave Springfield every
wednesday at 6 a m, and arrive atKinderhook an
A, Thursday by 2r m. Returning. Leave Kinder
ire' hook on Thursday by 4 r m, arrive at Stockbridge
at on Friday noon I.eave Stockbridge every Tues
day at 6 a m, and arrive at Springfield by 7 p m.
is 34. From Suffield bv Weft Springfield, Northamp.
rs ton, Greenfield, Brattleborough, Weftminflcr, Wal
pole, Charleftown aod to Hanover iwvc.i
wetk.
a every Tuesday and Friday at am,
-v'fvl a: Nor.tl-aqiptor.by 1 r M,at Walpoleon Wed
« nefiiay snd SaiurJay b)» ip m, atWindlbron Mon
n day and Thuriday liy 2 rm, and at Hai.ovcr by 7 1
le m Heturning. Leave Hanover every Tuesday and
s. Fii-'ay by 6 a m,arrive at Windsor by 1 PM.atWal
d pole on Weduefday and Saturday' by 7p m, and at
Norths or. Monday ana thursday by noon^and. ai
atSufficld by' 7 PM. IV
35- From Hanover by Oxfoid and Haverhill to
Newbury one a week. ii
Leave [Luiovcr every wednefdav by 6 a M, arrive
at Haverhill by 4P M, and at'NevJjury by 5 PM. a
Returning. Leave Newburv every Thursday by 6 A }
M, a live at Haverhill by 8A M, and at Havei hill by a
6 V M
V. RM NT.
36* From Windsor by RoyaUton, Randolph, Will- r
iamlton and to Builingtou once in tv/o
weeks. a
Leave Windsor every other Thurfd-ijy bv 6 A M,
and arrive it Bur!ingro«t tne next Saturday, bv 6P M. c
Returning. Leave Burlington other Thursday
by 6A M, and arrive at Windsor On by o '
f M. • * I
37. From Windsor to Rutland once a wetk.
Leave Rutland every Monday by 7 A M and arrive
at Windsor on Thursday by 6 PM. Returning.
Leave Windsor every Wednesday by 6 A M, and ar-
rive at Rutland on Thursday hy 6 pm. f*
38. From Burllington by Vergennfis and Middle
bury to Rutland ©nae a week. a
every T' urfd-ay by 8a m, and I
arrive at Rutland on Saturday by 6p m. Returning, a
Leaye Rutland every Monday by 8 a m. and arrive at
Burlington On Wednesday noon. *
39. From Rutlaod by Mmchefter, Bennington,
Lanfingburg and Troy to Albany.
Leave Rutland everv Monday at 8a m, and arrive 1
at Albany the next Wednesday by 6p m. Return- I
ing. Leave Albany every Thursday by 8a m, and
arrive at Bennington by 7p m. Leave Bennington t
on Friday by 8 a m, and arrive at Rutland on Satur
day by 7 p m- • * a
RH'JDE-ISL AND. <
40. From Providence by Briltol and Warren to v
Newport.
Leave Providence every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday by ja m, and arrive at Newport the fame '
days bv 5 PM. Returning. Leave Newport every
Tuesday, Thmfday and Saturday by 8 am, and ar- 1
live at Providence 4p m.
41. From Providence by East Greenwich, New
port, South Kingston, Westerly and Stonington Point
to New London once a week.
Leave Providence every Tuesday bv 8 a w, and
arrive at Newport by 6 pm, leave Newport every
Wednesday by 6 a ni, and arrive at New London on
Thursday by noon. Returning. Leave New Lon
don on Thursday by 3 p m, and arrive at Newport on
Friday by 6r M, leave Newport on Monday by 7 a '
Mj and arrive at Piovidence by 5 p m.
CONNECTICUT.
42. From by Windham to Norwich
once a week.-
Leav*. Hartford every Tuesday by 6 am, and ar
rive at Norwich by 7p m. Returning. Leave Nor
wich every Monday by 6 a m, and arrive at Hartford
: by 7 p m.
43. From Hartford by Middletown, Modus Land
ing and Colchester to New-London, once a week.
Leave Hartford every Taiefday at 1 p m, and arrive
at New London on Wednesday by 7p m. Return
ing. Leave New London every Thursday by 11 a
m, and arrive at Hartford on Friday by 7 r m.
44. From Hartford by New Hartlord, Canaan,
Sheffield and Hillfdale to Hudson onee a week
j Leave Hartford cvet y Monday at 2p m, and arrive
at Hudson on Wednesday by 11 am. Returning.
1 Leave Hudfoh every Wednelday at 2 r m, and arrive
at H ait ford on Friday by it a m.
45. From Hartfoidby Litchfield, New Milford,
Newtown, Danbury and Ridgefield to New York
once a week.
Leave Hartford every Monday by 10 a m, arrive at
Litchfv. ld bv 7 p m, at New Milford oa Tuesday by
Ii am, and at New York on Thursday by 8 am.
| Returnrng. Leave New York every Thursday by 4
i pm, arrive at T*lfcw Milford on Saturday noon, at
I Litchfield by 7 ? m, and at Hartford on Monday by
8 am.
. 46. From New-Haven by Derby, Southbury,
i Woodbury, Bethlem, Litchfield and Gofhen, to Ca
naan, once a week.
Leave Canaan every Monday noon, arrive at Litch-,
» field by 7P m, and at New Haven on Wednefdav by
10 am. Leave New Haven every Wedaefday by 2
p m, arrive at Litchfield on Thursday noon, and at
1 Canaan by 7p m. _
47. From New York by White Plains, Bedford,
, Fred crick town, Dover, Shar n, Sheffield, Great
?! Barrington, Stockbridge, Pittsfield and Williamfton
r to Bennington
New VOl k every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday at 5 AM, the next Wednesday, Friday and
Monday at 6 PM. Returning. Leave Bennington
[ every Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by 5 AM,
and arrive at New York the next Saturday, Tuesday
and Thursday by 6 P M.
f If the stages run but once a week on this route"the
- mail it to leave New York every Mondav at 5 AM,
r arrive at Bennington on Wednesday by 6P M. Leave
- Bennihgton on Thursday by 5A M, and arrive at
lt New York on Saturday by 6P M.
48. From New York by Yonkers,Peekfkill, Fish
' kill, Poughkeepfie, Rhir.ebeck, Redhook, Clermont,
„ Hudson, Claverac and Kindcrhook to Albany three
1 times a week.
Leave New York every Monday. Wednefdav and
Friday by 2 P M, arrive at Tarrytown by 8 P M
Leave Tarryrown every Tuesday, Thursday and Sa
y turdayats AM, arrive at PoughkeepGe by 7 PM.
' Leave Poughkeepfie Wednesday, Friday and Sunday
" by 5 AM, arriveat Kindcrhook by 7'P M. Leave
Kinderhook every Thursday, Saturday and Monday,
t at 5A M, and arriveat Albany by 8A M. Return
ing. Leave Albany Thursday, Saturday and Mon
e day by 3 P M, arrive at Kinderhook bv 7 P M.
Leave Kindci hook Friday, Sunday and Tuesday, at
5 AM. arrive at Poughkeepfie by 7 p m. Leave
' Poughkeepfie Saturday, Monday and Wednesday, at
5 AM, arrive atTarrvtown by 7p m. L;ave Tarry
a town every Snndav, Tuesday and Thursday, at 5 a
m, arrive at New Vork at u a m.
t, 49. From Albany by Troy end Lanfingburgh, to
t Salem, once a week. |
£ Leave Albany every Tuesday at 8 am, arrive at
Lanfingbnrgh by 10 a m, and at Silem by 4 p m. Re
turning. •LeaveSalem every Monday, by 8a m, and
atrive at Albany by 5 p m.
50. From Salem by Granville, Fairhaven, Ver*
d gennes, Bason-Harbour, Willfboro*, Peru and Plaits
1. burgb, to Champlain-town, once in two weeks,
f- Ltave Salem every other Wednefdav by § A and
y arriveat Plattfburgh the next Sunday by 5p m. Re
turning. Leave Plattfburgh every other Monday at 8
i- am, and arrive at Salem the next Friday by 4p m.
n 51. From Lanfingb.itgh by Waterford, Stillwater,
Fort Edward, Whitehall landhig and to
Rutland, in Vermont.
Leave Lanfingburgh every Thursday by noon, and
C arrive at Rutland the next Saturday by 6 p m. Re
turning. Leave Rutland, every Monday by noon,
and arrive at Lanfingburgh on Thursday by 10 a m.
52. From Albany by Schene£lady, Tiipes Hill,
S Conajoharry, German Flatts, Old Fort Schuyl" and
Whitestown to Rome. Thetimcs dejired tobejlaitd in
r " the prof nfali.
A 53. From Schene6tady by Balltown Springs and
Glenfb'idge to Sardy Hill once a week.
Leave Schentftady every Tuesday by 6 a m and
arrive at Sandy Hill by 4p m. Leave Sandy Hill on
Wednesday by 6 am, and arrive at Scheneftady by
'"4 PM,
n 54. From Tripcthiltto Johnfton oncei week.
: L»ave Tripefhill in one hour after the mail arrives
c ~ from Albany ort Tuesday, arrive at Johnfton in two
y hoars, stay at Johnfton two hours, and return to
TripefliilUn two hours.
7 55. From Conajoharry by Cherry Valley to Coo
n per:town twice a week.
r- Leave every Wednesday and Saturday
;e at 6 a m, and arrive at Cooperftown by 2p m.
f- Leave Cooperfiown every Tuesday and Friday by 10
a m, and arrive at Conajoharry by 6 p m.
3 . 56# From Cooperftown by Butternuts and Oxford
I to Union once in two weeks.
a Leave other Monday by 10 am, and
arrive at on Wednesday by 5p m. Re
turning. Cooperftown every other Thursday
II by 6 a m,' and arrive at Union or. Saturday by 3p m.
1- 5?. From Oid Fort Schuyler by Cincinnati to
1 Oxford Academy once in two weeks.
d Leave Old Fort Schuyler every other Thursday by
! 6 am, aud arrive at Oxford on Friday noon. Rc
it turning. Leave Oxford every other Friday by 2r m,
and arrive at.Old Fori Sslrjvlci* on Situidaii by 7P. 3
M. b]
58. From Rome by to Rotterdam once
in two weeks.
Leave Rome every other Tburfdav by to A M : and
arrive at Rotterdam by 6 P M. Returning. Leave
Rotterdam everv pther Fridav by aA M, and arrive '
at Rome by 6 PM. Jv '
50. From Rome Ivy Oneida, Onondaigui, Scipio " c
and Geneva to once a week
Leave Rome every Thursday by to AM, and a»*- L
rive ar Kanandaigua every Monday by ia C-
LeaveKanandaigua every Monday by >0 A M, and L
arrive at Rome the nextThurfdajbv 8 A M. ar
, 6©. From Kanandaigua Hartford to Niagara
once in tv/o weeks pi
Leave Kanandaigua every other other Monday fry 10
AM, and arrive at Niagara the »ext Wednesday by 7 m
PM. Returning. Leave Niagara cvciy other Fri- tu
da)> by 6 A M, and arrive at Kanandaigua the next
Monday by $ A M«
61. From R,Jiinebeck by Kingston, Shawan<rifnk,
Wardfbridpe, Gofhen, Hamburg, Newtown, John
forifburg and Hope, to Eafton, once a week.
Leave Eafton every Thursday by 3P M, and arrive '
at Rhinebeckthen-xt Sunday by PM. Re?urni«g. 11
Leave Rhinebcck every Monday by 8A M, and arrive A
ar Eafton on Thursday by 10 A M.
62. From New York by Ha. keafack, Paramus, 01
I New Antrim and Chester to Gofhen once a week.
Leave New York every Friday at 7 AM ( and ar- at
rive at Gofhen on Saturday by 6 PM. Returning. Q
Leave Gofhen every Tuesday at 6 A M, and arrive at
New Yorkon Wednesday by 6 PM. h»
63. From Finikill by Newburg and New Windsor
to Gofhen once a week. 2
Leave Fifhkill every Wednesday by 7 AM, and n
nrrive at Gofhen by 5 P M. Leave Golhen every e
Tuesday at 7A M, and arrive at Fifhkill by 5P M. c<
64. From New Y«rk by Jamaica, Huntington,
Smithtown, Brookhaven, Suffolk, Southampton & m
Bridgehampton to Sagharbour once a week. ir
Leave New York every Thursday at 10 A M. and
arrive at Sagharbour the next Saturday by 6 P M. A
Leave Saghafoour every Monday at 8A M, and ar- j
rive at New York on Wednesday by 5 P M.
1
NEW-JERSEY.
65. From Woodbridge to Amboy three times a
week.
Leave Wood bridge every Monday, Wednesday &
Friday at 8A M, and arrive at Amboy by 9 A M. 0
Leave Amboy a* noon and arrive at Woodbridge by
1 P M. 1\
66. From Trenton by Allentown, Monmouth r
court-house, Shrewsbury, Middletown Potnt, Spotf
wood, New Brunfwick,Somerfet, New Germanton,
Pittfton and Flemington to Trenton once a week.
Leave Trentou every Tuesday by >o A M, and re
tarn to Trenton the next Tuesday by 6 A M.
67. From Philadelphia by I auntoh and Atfion to
Tuckerton once in two weeks.
Leave Philadelphia every other Wednesday by 3 S
P M, arrive at Tuekerton on Thursday by 6 P M.
Leave Tuckerton everyother Tupfday by 6A M, and a
arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday by 9 AM. i
68. From Philadelphia by Woodbury, Swedefbo
rough, Woodftowu and Salem to Bridgetown once a ?
week. \
Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday afternoon by t
3 o'clock, and arrive at Bridgetown on Friday by 2 j
PM. Leave Saturday at 8 A ta>and
arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday at 9 A M.
69- From Philadelphia by Jenkintown, Plumfteai
and Pipers by Bethlehem to Eafton once a week. .
Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday bv 10 AM, (
and arrive at Eafto* on Thursday by 2P M. Return
ing. Leave Eafton every Monday at 9 AM, and ar- 1
rive at Philadelphia on Tuesday by 3 P M.
70. From Pluraftead by Pipers and Alexandria to
Pittfton once a week.
Leave Plumftead every Thursday by 5 AM, arrive
at Pittfton by 11 A M. Leave Pittfton by 1 P M,
and arrive at Plumftead by 7 P M.
71. From Eafton to Wilkefbzrre once a week.
Leave Eafton every Thursday by 3 P M, and arrive
at Wilkefbarre on Saturday noon. Returning. Leave
WiikeftniTre every Tuesday noon, and arrive at Ea
fton every Thursday by noon.
72. From Philadelphia by Norriftown, Trap,
Pottfgrove, Reading, Lebanon and Harrifburg to
, Carlisle.
Ottober 15 to April 15. Leave Philadelphia every
Tuesday and Thursday at /unset, arrive at Reading
every Thursday and Saturday at 4 PM. Leave Read
ing every Friday at 8 A,M, arrive at Carlisle every
Sunday by it AM. Returning Leave Carlisle eve
ry Sunday by 2 P M, arrive at Reading on Tuesday
by 4 P M, leave Reading every Wednesday aud
Monday by 8 A M, and arrive at Philadelphia on
Thursday and Tuesday by 4PM
l April 15, to
-1 ry Wednesday and Fjiday at 8A M, arrive at Read
► ing on Thursday and Saturday by n AM. Leave
Reading every Thursday noon, and arrive at Carlisle
the next Saturday byH A M. Returning. Leave
; CaiKfle every Monday noon, arrive at Reading op
, Tuesday bv 7 PM. Leave Reading every Wednef
: day arid Monday at 8A M, and arrive at Pbiladel
t phiaon Thursday and Tuesday byg A M
73. From Reading bv Hamburg. Sunbury and
Northumberland to Louifburg once a week.
, Leave Reading every Eriday at 6 AM, and arrive
: at Louifburg on Monday by 10 A M. Returning.
Leave Louifburg every Tuetdav noon, and arrive at
1 Reading on Thursday bv 4P M.
74. From Harrifburg by Petersburg, Mi.'lerftown,
Thompfontown, Mifflintown, Louiftown, Hunting
don, Alexandria, Centre Furnace, Bellfe Fount, Milef
v burg, Aaronfburg, Mifflinburg, Louifburg, Northum
c berland, Sunbury and Halifax to Harrifburg once in
, two weeks.
Leave Harrifburg every Saturday by 6 A M, wait
ing at each post office which fhali be established on
the route, two hours, and return again to Harrifburg
t the next Monday by 8A M.
e 75, From &ornerlet by Connellfville to Union once
t a week.
Leave Somerlct every Thursday tyr 5 A. M.arrive
\ at Union by 4P. M. Leave Union Friday by
8 A.M. and arrive atSomerfetbY 7 P. M.
0 76. From Pittfburg by Cannonfburg, Washington,
1 Weft Liberty and Wheeling, to the mouth ot Fifh
t ing Creek, once a week. *
Leave Pitlfburg every Friday by noon, and arrive
d at Fishing Creek on Sunday by 9A M. Returning.
Leave Fithing Creek every Wednesday bv 4 P M,
'■* and arrive at Pi tfburgthe nex' Friday by iO AM.
1- 77. From Preston by to Cincinnati
once a week.
d Leave Preston every Friday at noon, arrive atWaffr
iugton bv 8 PM, and at Cincinnati the next Monday
8 noon. Returning. Leave Cincinnati every Tuesday
at 6A M, and anive at Wafhjngton on Wednesday
", by 5P M. Leave Washington at 9P M, and arrive
0 at Preston on Friday by n-J-iIM.
From Peterfbjrg bv City Point to Bcrmnda Hund
d red, three times a week.
Leave Petersburg every Mondsy, Wednefdav and
\y Friday by 6 AM, and arrive at Bermuda Hundred
bv 10 AM. Leave Bermuda Hundred bv 11 AM,
1, add arrive at Petcifburg by 3P M, faint Vys.
1
» KENTUCKY. #
78. From Washington by Springfield, Bourbon,
Lexington, Frankfort and Harrodfbctrg to Danville
once a week,
Leave W&fhingtonevery Saturday by 8 A M, and
n arrive at Danville the next Monday by 5P M. Re
y turning. Leave Danville every Tuesday by 8 A M,
and arrive at Lexington on Wednesday 1100 a, and at
Waftiingt' n onThurlday by 6 P M.
:s 79. From DanvjlJc to Leu fv.'lle by Beardftown
0 once in two week*
0 Leave Danville every other Tuesday bv noon, ar
rive at Louisville the next Thursday by 3 P M.
Returning Leave Louisville every other Friday by
6 A M, and arrive at Danville on Saturday by 6 P M.
y 80. From Danville*by Stamford and Cumberland
l - Gap to Mot Fat's itore in Terineirec once a week;
0 Leave Danville every Monday at 2 P M. and arrive
at Moffat's ftorethe nextThurfday bv 6 P M. Leave
Moffat's store eVery Fridey by 6 A M, aud arrive at
Danville on Monday by 10 A M.
d ■
? TENNESSEE.
iy
1. Bi. From Kooxville by South Weft Point and
o Fort Blount and Craig Fort to Nashville once in two
weeks*
iy Leave Kooxville every other Tuesday by 8A M»
and arrive at 1 Nashville the next Monday by qA M.
1, 1 Returning, Leave. Nashville every other Mondiy by
3 P Xl»/2na arrive at iCncxvitle the nezt Saturday*
by 8 PM. 4
Maryland aad Virginia?
82 From Baltimore by Eliicitt's Lower Mills*'
Montgomery court-house, Zeefourg,
Middleburg and Warrtnton to Culpeper couit
hoiife, once a week.
I,>.ave Baltimore every Monday noon, arrive at
Leelburg 011 Tucfday evening, and at Culpeper
Court. Houle the nert Thursday noon. Returning.
Leatp Culpeper court-hoefe every Friday noon, and
arrive at Baltimore the next Monday by 9 A M.
83. From A'.Ln's Freili by Zudlow's Ferry to
Port Conway in Virginia.
Z-eave AileriV Frelh every other Monday by 6 a
m, an.d arrive at Port Conway by 6 P M. Re
turning. Leave Port vay every otner Tues
day by 8 am, and arrive at Allen's Frefli by 7 P M.
84. From Morgantown by Petty John to Clark
fbury once in two weeks.
Leave Morgantown every other Monday by 5 a
M, and arrive at Clarksburg by 5P M. Return
ing. XeaVt-Ciark&urg every other Taefday by 8
a M, and arrive at Morgantown by 8 P M.
85. From Todd's to King arrtl Queen Court H.
once a week.
Leave Todd's every Thursday by 9 a arrive
at King and Queen by 11 a M. Z-eave Ktnof and
Queen at 1 P M, and arrive at Todd's by 6 P IVJV
86. From Halifax by *Danville to Cafwel) couri
houfe once in two weeks.
Leave Halifax cour-howfe every other Tuesday bv
1 2 P M, arrive at Cafwell court-houfc the next Wed
nesday by 6P M. Returning. Lt-ave Cafwell C.H.
every other Thursday by 6 M, aad arrive at Haiifax
court houfeon Friday by noon.
87. From Peterfburgh by Suffer court house
and Southampton court house to South Quay, one#
in two weeks.
Leave Petersburg every other Wednesday by 6
A M and arrive at South Qnay on Thursday by 6
PM* Returning. Leave .South Quay every other
Monday by 6 A M and arrive at Petersburg on
Tuesday by 3 P M.
NORTH-CAROLINA'< L p c
88. From Newbernto Beaufort and Swanfboro'
once in two weeks, the mailt© go alternately.
Leave Newbem every other Thursday by 6 A
M, remain at each of the offices two hours, and
return to Newbern the next.
89. From Wilmington by Georgetown to Char
leston, once a week.
Leave Wilmington every Monday by 6 A M
and arrive at Charleston the next Thursday by 10
AM. Leave Charleston every Thursday by 3 P
M and arrive at Wilmington the next Sunday, by
5 P M.
90 From Norfolk by Kempfville, Great Briige
and North Weft River Bridge to Jonelboyo', once
in two weeks
Leave Norfolk every other Wednesday at 9 A
M and arrive at Jonefboro* on Thursday by 7 P M
Returning, Leave Joncjfboro' every other Monday
by 10 A M and arrive at Norfolk on Tuesday by 6
P M.
91 From North Weft River Bridge by New Le
banon to Elizabeth city, once in two weeks.
Leave North Weft River Bridge every otlfer
Friday by 6 A M add arrive at Elizabeth city by
6 M. Leave Elizabeth city eV-ry other Satur
day V t - 6 AM, and arrive at N. W. river bridge
by 6 p
91. Frr*n Salem, N. C. by Bethania, Flower *
Gap Grayfotvourt-houfe and Auftinville toWythc
court-house on\e in two weeks.
Leave Salem evrry other Saturday by 6 A M,
and arrive at Wythe v h. the next MOll. by 6 p M.
Leave Wythe every Tucfday by
9 A. M, and arrive at Salem the next Thursday by
6 PM. >
93. From Murfieefboro* by South Quay to Suffolk
once a week.
From Murfreciboro' every Wednesday by 6A M t
arrive atSuffolk by 6P M. Returning. LeaveSuf •
folk every Taefday by 6 A M, and arrive at Murfreel
boro' b)6PM.
94. From Fayctteville to Pittfburg once in two
weeks.
I-eave Faj!etteville every other Wednesday by 6 A
M, aud arrive at Pittfburg on Thursday at 10 A Mj
Leave Pittfburg. every other Thursday b* 2 PM, and ar
rive at Fjjqtteville on Friday by 6 £ M.
GEORGIA AND SOUTH-CAROL IN A.
95. From Au: % ufla ty Robinson at the White
Ponds aad Gillets mills to Cowfahatchy, 01.ee a
week.
,Leave Augusta every Tuesday by 8 A M and ar
rive at Ceofahatchy on Wednesday by 7P M. Re
turning. Leave Coofahatchy every Sunday at 6 A
M and arrive at Augusta on Monday by 5 P M.
Georgia, once in two weeks.
Leave Georgetywn every other Monday at 6 A
M, nn& arrive at Rocky Landing at 5P M. Re
l turning. Leave Rocky Landing every other Tue(-
day by 6 A M and arrive at Georgetown by 6 FM.
! NEW JERSEY,
* 67. Ficm Newtown by Hacketftown, Morriftown
and Chatham to Newalrk, and from Newa k back by
Chatham Morriftown, Booneton, Rockaway and
Sparta so Newtown, once a week.
* Leave Newto\n ever y Thursday by 5A M and ar«
? rive at Newark OA Friday by IO AM. Leave New
ark every Friday by,2 P M, and arrive at Newtown
on Srturday by 6 P ftJL
Nde I. The Pojl Zfajur General may alter the times
of arrival artel departure ataxj Umeduriug tie continuance
, of the contract, ke previovfy fifrulating an adequate com
. penfation far any extra expense tbpl may heoccaj'onedthere
by*
N-'te 2. Ijalf an hour fball be f allo- j or 0
> and clojf/ig the ivlmlat all offices 10 he re no time
. is fpccified.
Note 3. For every hauj's delay fanavoidatlcaccidcnts
y excepted Jin arriving ajtcr, the times prescribed in cjiy con
y trail, the Can trail or jiall JarJcit one dollar, and ft %e de
y lay cojitinue witil the departure nj any depending
e whereby the Mails deftinedjok such depending Mai), left
a trip, an addilisftal Jorjeitune of five do dan fhati be
incurred• *
d Nde 4 Nenfpapers as ivell ae Letters are in be feat
d in the Mails ; and if any person making propvfals deftres
U la carry neiufpapers other than tbofe conveyed in tin wail y
»• for his own emolument, he tnujl fate in his proposals for
ivhat futn hi mill carry it ivhb that emolument and Jot
zvlat fitm xukhtot that tmdumtnt.
1,
C Note 5. Shonld any p erf on making proposals desire an
alteration of the tines cf Arrival end departure above
cifedy bemuft slate in -his prcp'jals the operations delired t
j an i the difference they xoilJ make in the terms cf hij an
k
n Ndte 6. ferfnns making pmpofals are dfired to flat?
their prices by the year. '/hofe tuho contract ivill receive
their pUy quarterly, iu tie tnorAh's cf' January t Aprtl %
1' J aR d Oilvbct. '
Note 7 The contracts are. to be in operation on the frit
day (f Oft obex rext, atrd continue fc four years, until
, c the frft of Oftobcr 180 excepting contrails for tb
e routes Aft 8, 9* 10, 3 T > 2& s°» s*> 57» 6o > 74.
at 76, 77> 81, 83, 84. 87, 90, 91, 92, 96--
•wUch are to continue Jot tzvo years until th \fi of Cilol:r,
1799.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
o Poji-Majier General.
j i General Poft-Office, Philadelphia, )
l' May 2Jth, 1707. 5
jy June 1. sawtj?l