of tije an ® Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1614 ]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRY GOODS.
f Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. 56,
' outh Fr'ont-ftreet,
) Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
(_ South Pronl-ftrcet.
f Forenoon—John Connetly, Old Cit*
%iefdat< A ul^'on > No. 73 fout'h Front-flreet.
' ' J Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C 183 High-street.
Wednesday \ A, ' ter, ! o< ?!!,'T Pe ; > er i,enfon ' No. 74
( south Third-ftrcet.
ThurSday \ forenoon—Edward Fox.
I Afternoon—John Connelly.
Friday ' ' Farcnoon—William Shanuon.
5 Afternoon-John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
United States, 7 n-
PennJ'ylvania DiJlriß, >
-rN purfoance ol a writ to me dire&ed from the
1 honorable Richard 'Peters, Esq. Judge of the
lJiftria Court "of th 3 United States in and for the ,
Per-nlylvaniaDiftrivft, will be exposed to PUBLIC
SALE, at the Cutlom-houfe, in th. city of Fhi
ladcfphiK, on Friday, the 17th inft. at 12 o'clock
at noon,
2 hampers of Earthen Ware
1 box of Indigo
1 box of Merchandize j
1 half barrel do.
no bags of Coffee
.1 barrel of Salt Petre
» barrels }
1 keg >- of Linens
I trunk J
1 barrel of Sugar
X bag of Pepper, and
Part ot 3 l>ag» of Sugir
Tlis ame having het'll libelled againfl, profeeuted
a-id condemned a* forfeited, in the said • ourt.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marjhal.
MarfhaVs Office, \
3d November, 1797. \ dtS
United States, 1 „
Peunfylvania Dijlricl, J'
IJJ purl'uance of a writ to me directed (rora th e
honorable Rich ard Petius,Efq. Judge of the
Dißrid Court of the United States, in and for the
Pfnufylvjnia Diftri&, will be exposed to PtjBI.IC
SALE, at the Custom-house iu the city of Phila.
delphia, on Friday, the I7tkinft. at ix o'clock,
at noon,
354 Silver Watches i
30 gold Watches 1
50 0 Watch Keys
The fame having been libelled against, profeeuted
and • idemned as forfeited, in the said Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marjhal.
Mirlhal's Office, f
ad November, 1797. J dtS
'7o be Sold, by Public Vendue,
On Monday, the ijtb'day of November 1
at ii o'clock inthe foreuoon, at the late dwel
ling plartniton of ALexANDeR Poster,Efq.
dejeafed, in the Hundred and County of New-
Caitle,
All the Stock of the said Farm,
Confitlih" ot horles fit for draught or saddle, ,
.eolts, tit cattlt-, milch cows, calves, several '
pairs of Urge and valuable oxen. i'Keep -
hogs (all the horned cattle and thtep! being of
.1 vert large and fine breed ) and also carts, har
rows, ploojjl'fs, and other farming utenfib, to
gether with a variety'of honf'-hold furniture.
\ The conditions of Sale will be made known,
at tilt tiihe and place aforefaid. »
Mary Porter, Admrx.
New Collie Hundred, 3tate of )
Delaware, o£t. 10, 1797.. j B
0" Ail pcrfons indebted to the ellate of the
laid Alexander Porter, are requested to malt*
payment, and thqfts who have demands against
the fame, to produce them duly authenticated,
for fettlemetit.
Q<3. 30. JtS
To be Sold at Public Vendue, 1
(If not before 'disposed of at private sale J t
/""\N Friday, the fir it. of December next, at
o'clock in th? evening, at the Merchants' Cos-
fee House, in Philadelphia. Forty Thousand Nine
Hundred and Thirty Nine acres of LAND,
now or bte in the County of Washington, and C©m
jnonwealth of Pennsylvania, and on the waters of
Fresh and Wheeling Creeks and Ten Mile Run.— g<
Thtfc Lands are fertile and well timbered, and were
patentecd early in 1757, except 3700 acres or therea
bouts, which were patented in 1799. One fourth J 1
of the purchase hioney t» be paid at the, time of sale,
i or the residue a credit of one, two and three months,
vrilL be given, on intereit and good feturity.
6. »
To be Sold at Public Vendue, 3,
(If not before disposed of at private sale) Q
ON Friday, the firlt day of December, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
House. in Philadelphia, Twenty Six* Thousand Se
'von Hundred ar.d Eighty acres of LAND, in the
State of New-York, between the norjthern bounds
of Pennfyltania and the Sufquehanna, now, or late, «
in the townfKips of Hamden and Warren, and coun- ,
ty of Montgomery One foarth of the purchase
money is so be paid at the time of sale ; for ihe le- m
iiduea credit ot one, two, and three months will be
given, on interett and good security.
O&ofte 6. 3awtS
Boston Glals Manufactory.
THE, citizens of the Utiited States are hereby &
th3t the manufa-fture of window A'
C'afs is now commenecd at the Glass House in Bos- ;
Cop. ,
it is needicf9 to fay any thing of the excellent 31
quality of theßnfron Giafs, as it is so well known car
throughout the United States to he in every refpeifc
greatly luperi6r to any ever imported from Europe.
It Will be cut to any size commonly used ; and ~~
may be constantly had by applying to Charles F.
Kupfeß, at the Glass House.
Orders from the distant States to he addressed to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-»ftreet, Boston. si
Boston, Sept 30,1797 O4 —aaw6w ji
jlfejjrs. Timothy and Cbar'.cjlon ; Messrs. \
Hafye and Boylan, Halifax, N". C. JVlejJ'ri. IVitteit ord
a/id ()* Nor/Ik ; Mr. Ellis Price, Alexandria ; ply
Yuiiit and Broivn, Baltimore ; Mr. Hopkins,
Nexv-York ; and J\£jfrs. Hud fan 13* Goodwin, Hart
ford; Mr. Seymour, Savannah ; are requcfcd to insert
the above once a ivetk 6 iveeh. The accounts to be for
•wardedto ibe Editor.
tENERIFFE WINE. 3
LANDING at Wa'nnt-ftreet wharf, TENE
.P IFT Ji WINE, of excellent quality, in pipe# and I
half piper, for sale by J.I.HES YARD. '
OA. 10. eoßt s
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER Vo, 119-
For Sale or Charter,
Bfflw GOOD HOPE,
• W *'* C3rry a^oUt 1 1,00 barrels and
** reac ty take in a cargo. For terras
5 0 9 apply to
6s Pragers & Co.
No. Ifi, South Sccend-ftrcet.
ity D havc forfale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
- Rmii, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriffe
{0 ; November 7. dtf .
| Five years old Madeira Wine,
74 OF the very firft quality, in pipes hhds. and
quarter caflcs, just lauded from the ship Edward,
from Madeira, and for sale by
JOHN CRAIG,
No. 12, Docjc-ftreet.
J 1 '* 10 H/iS FOR CHARTER,
CHARLOTTE,
Burthen about uco barrels,
he ' just hove down and put in com
he plete order, and now ready to rective a cargo,
he | Aty, Far SALE or CHARTER,
£ J ° S U S,
| —i* Burthen about 1800 barrels.
,g nn iKL,.:r C. Jawtf.
For Liverpool,
~ - The Ship
tfJWT CLOTHIER,
Nathaniel D. Gardner, majler,
1 TyTILL fail about the 1 cth
—— \V inli. ror freight or pas
sage apply to the Captain, at Vanuiem's whrarf,
or to JAMES OLDDF.N,
npv. 3. dtf' No- 41, H. J-ronuftrcct.
d t<fr Amsterdam,
The Ship
WILMINGTON,
Captain Hilman ;
I A Staunch, fill (ailing-, Phi
. ii ladelphia built vessel, of
livffonk an J cedar, is now in complete order, }ud
will fail with all pofliblefpeed, having great part of 1
e her cargo already engaged. For freight or pas- I
e s a ge (having excellent accommodations) apply to 1
e the captain on bo ird, or to
' Summerl & Brown, i!
i Who have on hand,
Gonaives Cotton, Sugar, Mo
lasses, and a few thousand weight of excellent Cor
dage, including several Cables of 8} &ir inclus. 1
novembrr 3. tuth&stf
r or London,
the ship
WILLIAM VENN, ,
J ames Jofiah, Majler,
, VV ient expedition For
Freight or Pa'lftge, apply to the Captain, er to
JeJfe £sf Robert Wain.
■ _0&. .;i,
For London,
-THE SHIP
srf®?? jean, 1
Daniel M'Pherfon, Majler.
AO fail with all convenient speed—a conlidera- 5
blc part of her cargo being air ady engaged.
For terms of Freight or Paflage, apply to
Rofs iff Simfon.
0a.»7- 7 i
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By (hip Edward, from Madeira,' and Bc tfey and
Peggy, Oporto, in Pipes and Hoglheads,
For sale by C J
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFkRS FOR SALI,
A M I T T, \
Four thousand barrels burth«n, a S
excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo—about three year* old.
I<! K t WIS K ,
The Schooner Industry, 0
Burthen 800 barrels, reaJy also to receive a car
go—and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sygars,
Jul! landed from the above vefle*» at South ftrcet B1
v-harf. roim. Nov. i. CI
Rum, J?
JUST arrived at VVilmjngton, Delaware q
State, and now landing from on hiiard the
Brig A.tlive, William Williams, Matter, q.
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof, o
And for Sale bv A!
Jehu Hollirigfiuorth & Co.
Wilmington, Sept.ai. dtf
N. B. The above Brig, }]'
\i*' ancl 'he brig GAYOSO, are '
3 "° ' or a ' c #r Charter, and r l ."
»^f!s£jwKlL.. now ready to receive a cargo j'
on board, at Wilmington. Apf>!y as above.
for Charter, 01
' Ri
THE SHIP p c
John Bulkley, Sc<
Samuel Volans, Majler. p. ;
" S veflel is built of live oak 1
-- - * X cedar, of about 3000
barrels burthen, and ready to receive on board a
cargo.
JeJfe Sff Robert Wain. In
_oa. 3 r. §
Fpr Freight or Charter,
THE GOOD BRIG I
mlm s u K E Y,
I&ac Vredenburg, Mailer ; Ro
NOW lying at Clifford's wharr, in compleat g r(
order to receive a cargo. For tershs please to ap- qj.
ply the Captain en board, or
John Siyrin, q','
No. 81, Arch-street. v*;]
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
2doo wt.of double refined Saltpetre Brc
6oq wt. of F F Oun Powder Uxi
300 barrels of Herrings [Jaj
50 bushels of Timothy Seed Bla
150 caf-" of Claret, fir it quality
And a quantity of Sherry '.Vine.
Sept. 19. dtf 1
B y_ Jo»N Fenno, N* 119
For Sale by the Subscribers
Prime Rice in qybolc and bttif utrrej
Bow deems Brandy
Tenerijfc Ifine
and MoUijfcs.
mis Georgia and Cgsoliua hi,
bruJhe* Ven ' " ""
N. (*f j. Frazer.
in 95> South Front Street.
- Nov : J- dim.
PraWing & Painting Academy,
No. 6.3, Walnut-street.
' n . d JAMES COX,
7 D informs his friends and the
iV generous puolie, that his academy open* this
day. November the 6th.
Hours of tuition lor ladies, from a till 4 in the
alter noon, and in Ihe evening from 6 till 8 for
gentlemen.
J Cox hasaddsdto his colle&ion of conies a ra
1s f lCty views, &.c. drawn from nature dnrinp
'» nii ablence from the city:
. All kinds of colours prepared, and every article
. . in e^e different branches of drawing and
painting, fold on reasonable terms.
Terms of Tuition, fr* Dnllars and a half per
quarter. J r
A morning class for grown ladies, frrom 11 till
• I*o clock. d 3 t w<w . 6.
A Negro Man.
S ALE, the unexpired -me (four years)
of a (tour, healthy, active egro Man. lis
r . is by trade a Cooper, wu, brought up when a lioy
t fj t rfie farming bufinels, is a good ploughman, im
.f. demands top care and irfant-rement of horfei and
rf> 1. a good driver He has lately been employed in
painting a new bstifeasdpi'inuwelk-he is pood
! tempered, mid believed to hf very hone*, fold p re
- ly for want of employ,tut morr for V >ng addift.
Ed co liquor—For terms apply to JJo. I Dock
ftrect, near Spruce street.
Nov. 6.
TO BE LET—At a moderate Rent,
i- The principal part of a HOUSE
'[ WITHIN a (hurt dillanae of the Cnffee-houfe'
f W "rA- bce " occu P' et! f" the '"1 four months'
' j conCltinjof a good dining room and parlonr, two
I bed rooms and a drelline room, two garrets, kitch.
0 en, wood vault and cellar, all in excellent' order
fit for the immediate reception of a small family.'
None need apply but thole who are reipeflable and
regular. Inquire at the office of this Gazette
oa »■*• a'tf
" James £ff Richard Smith,
S- TPAKE the liber'y of informing their friends
A and the public, that they have removed their
llore to No. 54. South Front Jlrc<t, aextdeor to Ed
ward. Fox's Auition Room, where they have at v
this time ior fale,alarpe and general aflortment of
European & Eajl India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier
wiljfam Pcnn, &c. &c.
" O*. 27. $
St. Croix Sugar & Rum
For Sale by
JOHN Co.
OA. ? 6. djw,
Samuel €sf Sons, >
No. 74, South Seeond-Jlreet,
HAVE refceived'a supply of Seafonahle GOODS,
which they are now opening for tale, on
1 reasonable terms. O& —4W
ROSS & SIMSON,
' 1
HAVE POR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Cqftas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica,
St.. Vincents, ( RUM. 1
»nd Bengal j
2 7- j !
To Gentlemen who intend. /pending : j
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET, .
WITH or without Board—at No. tf4, corner *
of iixth and RaccStreeU. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. 061. 27. —dtf
From Marseilles.
THE CARGO
Of the Swedilh barque Guftavus Adolphus,from
Marseilles, coniilting of the following articles,
is discharging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
falc by the
BRANDY, well flavored, of », 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hoglheads f
Ditto, in cases
Frontigniac Wine, in cases ef 30 bottles
Olive Oil, of a fupcrior quality, in bafcets of 6
and it bottles
Capers
Olives
Almonds
Dry Verdigreife _
Writing Paper
Umlnellas (Silk) of aB, 3c and 31 inches F
Taffeties
Long and snort white Kid Gloves for Women
Silk Stockings
Handkerchiefs, in imitation of Matlrafs
Artificial Flowers and Garlands P
Ostrich Feathers
Ribbons
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
Manna in forts
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN & N
ROBERT ANDREWS. r
September 2 7. eoff
Imj3orted in the latest arrivals from E
Amsterdam and Hamburg, and forfale by m
B. J. Bohlen, Si
A large affbrtment of Jint French Cambrics, '*•
Plat illas UuffiajiidDutchl'ailcloth V
Brittannias Writing, post, and print-
Rouanes ing paper
Brown Holland Du ch calf stint
Checks and !!ripes Prime madder
Ticklenburgs Shell'd Barley
Oznahurgs Looking glarffes
White (heetings Hollowglafs ware
Diaper Slates ,
Brown rolls Coffee mills
Umbrellas Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and straw kniv«s c 0
Black and wliitelaces Toys affortifd in boxes vo
Bcft Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Macleira Wine no
July *4. rn&tfctf
rf Young nylon Tea.
40 cherts of a fiipeiior quality— *llo,
ico do.of Hjfon,
Imported in the ti'uodrep E/.W, and for fa!e by
in ' he 'uL-fciiber. corner of Second and Pine
ltreet.
~C. Haight.
no-vemler ft. eot f
lMordecai Lewis,
>'> HAS FOR SALE, '
At his Store, Mo. 25, Great Doek-ftreet,
he 2 5° hales of Bengal Goods
Containing Baftas
Colfas
jj. , Gurrahs
or Moragugung.-cs
T ooluYy
■a. Check and Stripes
nj, ' Bandstto Handkerchiefs
MamooJy
] e Calicoes
ld 11 boxes Irifii Linens *
I do. Diapers
er 7 do. Umbi-ellas
20 canisters Java Sugar
;u 78 bags bhclt Pspper
116 do. East India Ginger
100 calks roll lirimftoue
7c pipes Madeira Wine
,57 calks.Gin
A quantity ot llieatbiilg Copper and Nails,
a) October 30. 3aw^w
,y For Sale by the Subscriber,
White PiaMillai
J Brown Holhndi
° White ShctrinfJj
d Dowlafles
Silesia ! »pdcred Hiadkerchiefs
Striped *>iiWiou(tß
Black Ribbons, No, 3 and 4
Glass Tumblers, and Looking Glaflcs, in
in cases, &c. & c .
George Pennock.
November 6. eodjw
• Samuel & Miers Fisher,
J AKt NOW OPEMING,
their Warehouse, No. 27, Dock Street, a frefli
■ t allortment of Wooltn and other goods, fu.tabic to
the season, received by the l»te arrivali from Engv
j land. 5
Tin have also for Sale,
Lisbon
Teiieriffe (
Sherry, and ( pipes, hhds. and quarter calks
s Port Wines, J
Assorted queen's ware in crates, &c.
■ icth mo- 23d. dlw3tawjw.
J 1 for sale;
■y" sobscribeks, No. 21, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
> John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Confijiing of
Baftas, of various qualities & prices
C°"* e * Punjum Cloths
Sanahs ; y
HVmhum. Charconna I)orta I ' i
Blue Cloth Tanjibs \
ChintzandCalic.es Mulmuls
- Mamoodys Checks
MaJiaragonges ' y Pataa Hhkfi.
Gingha'ns Mulmul do.
i GuZzenas BandannOes
G nrrahs Siflerfoy 1
Piniafcocs Choppa Romals
Sakratchys Sooty do.
Gillie Ronuls Perfiansofvariouscolouri
Mock Policiti
•200 SUGAS.
90,000 lb. PEFP2R.
Hillings & Francis.
<r In the conrfe Of a few days, the PrECE
GOODS, com poling the cargo of th.lhip Ganges,
will be exposed- for ialc at that large cummodioiis
Store, the no'rthweft corner of Market and Fourth
j streets, \vh;re a bale of every fpeciev of Goods will
' 1 e ti P en - * 3i-
FOR'SALE,
%r THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, flrft quality, in
• p!pes
Madeira Wine, Ncw-York/quality, in pipes
Lifljon WINE, in pipes
CLOVESaiid? r , . . . . ,
NUTMEGS \ olthe 'mportation in boxes
Spanifli Wool, in Balfs, suitable for Hatters.
Witlings & Francis,
Penn-ftrect, No. 21. I
Nov - I- w&stf of
Just arrived,
From P®rt-au-Prir.ee, and for Sale by the fubferi
bers, No. ii t Penn-ftreet,
6*2 hogfheadfc,^
> Prime Coffee
646 bags j
Willings & Francis.
<ja. 2?. §
landing, " 4
From on board the fliip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, from London,
60 tons of the best clean Russia
HEMP
60 rafks of bottled BROWN STOUT.
For Sole by the fubicribers. No. 21, Penn-ftreet.
Willings Francis. T
Cel. 31. d loi
• s i > ro
FOR SALE, f u
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets, mc
A large quantity of Clocks and fie;
Watches. Also, a general affertment of Tools, mc
Eiles and Materials, comifting of Clock Move- ;
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and Urge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glasses, Pumiee Stone, Emery, "jp
Rotten Stone, Cat Gut; bench, Hand and tail IN
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals,Keys, &c. &c. BA
* # * Apprentices Wanted. yea
novemier 3. f&tutf of
' " * " too
REMOVAL. Mb
' wo
Maurice Moynihan, a' r °y
tNFORMS his friends and the public, that he his
has removed his .Store of China, Glals, Queens J
Ware, and Dry Goods, from No. 81 North Sc- feci
cond, to No. 71 North Seventh Street, north east cci\
cortur of Cherry Alley, where he solicits the fa- bro
vor of his former cuftomcrs.
N. Craies put up with core at the fhofteft La<
notice. J
Neve filler 2. «Us
«•- of paitt
Iniurance Company of North
America.
i lie ! lockholders are informed, that a meet-
I , oW.'nflf K> !' l ',l ,y at the Com
. hjr Pii'y ' Office, in 1-ront Street, on Monday r.cxt
'we tic i 3 th u o'clock. *
El/en. Hazard, Sec'ry.
F Jfcil: d;t.
Landing this day,
F. om on bbard tTU schooner Two Friends, Dan
lei CiaVley, Matter,
so finds, and / t • 11 -rr. „
i iz pipes j Jamaica RUM,
* for sale by
George Latimer £sf Sen.
uo>V3mhcr 9.
*Oll SALE, "Ir
Joseph Anthony Iff Co.
No. r t Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdcaux Brandy, ift and id
# proof, just landed
ISo bales of Bourbon cotton of a superior quality
9 do. < Surat, do do
A quautily of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon Ind'go of the firft quality
High pfocf Januicaipirits
Old Loodon-partirular Madeira wine? In pipes &
do. market do ( qr . calks.
New England rum in hoglheads
Is. Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret ineafes
Spumaceri candles and {train"d oil
Prime hu:toli beef
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half battels
D». Herring ia do do
Bell Bpfton MackarJ in barrels of the fall fare.
Ni w-England t >w l ; aan
A few tons of f&tfia cordage
"vuflia feather beds
Clover and Timothy feed in ;afkg
n Long whale-bent
No i, j, and 3, Boflon fail duck
A. few chests firtt quality Hyson tea
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow glafg ware
5 Philadelphia, (fa. 24//., i 7
ALL perlons desirous to conti to furnilh Ra
h 1\- tions and Quarter Mailer's Stores,during the
° L ea ffl' 79 'm I™ tr °° pS in Philadelphia, Fort
V Mifflin, on Mud Island, Carlisle ana Reading, or
any of them are desired to deliver their proposals
under a sealed cover, oh or before the acth No
vcmber next, to
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
The Rations to eonjiji of
I pourid Flour or Bread
1 pound Beef, or 3 4 of a pound of Pork
I gill Rum, Brandy or Whifrev
1 lb. (Candles
2 lb Soap /
i quarts Vinegar ( every hundred rations
1 q " art Salt ■> &ifti B thN
. Wharton and Lewis,
- - 4 - ma for fiuppinr
No. Xl 5, South Front-street, '
Jamaica Rum, 4th proof, > entitled to
Alicant Brandy, Ift & ad proof J drawback.
■ Madeira Wine, and
I few hoglheads of Jvniper Berries.
! od " ber 3'- eotf
FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 7>, South
Witer-flreet,
A general assortment of China
4 Ware
Black and coloured Sattihs
Do. do. LMteftrmgs
d«. Handkerchief^
Do. do. sewing Silks
Imperial and Hyfun Teas
X.oflgand Oiort NMkeens
Quick Silver, in tubs
Holland Gin, ia pipes
AITor-tcd Giafs Ware, in cases
White and brown Havanna Sugars, in bores
Mobiles, in hoglheads
St. Croix Rum and Sugar, in do.
l.oadon particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quarter calks
Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chcfts
Logwood, &c. &c.
*"■ 7—"i&fnw JOSEPH SIMS.
Landing,
From on board the lhip Edward, at Walnut
ftreet Wharf,
London particular Madeira Wine,
of a superior quality, For Sale by the fufcfcriber.
Robert Andrews.
novembcr ;. eot f
For lale by the Subscriber,
NO.S9, South Third flrect,
A few calks of high proof Brandy
60 Tierces freih Rice
40 Boxifc of t hocolate
A large quantity us aborted window glafc, and
aoo pieces fail Cloth, Ne. 1 to 8
• Ravens Duck, Mace and Gum Senegal.
Samuel Breck, Jun.
N. B. An excellent Coropting Honfe to let on
Refls's wharf. 6tebd • Nov. 2.
NOII CE. ~
The holders of certificates of a
loan to the exiled citizens of ths State sfSouth Ca
rolina and Georgia, under an ail of Congress ijd
July, 1781, are informed, that by lodging the sam«
withGeorgeSi'mpfon, Caihier of the Bank of th»
United States, they will be enabled to receive pay
ment of principal andinterefl, asfoonasthe certi
licates can be forwarded to Charleston for fettls
ment, and orders received for their discharge.
November I.
15 Dollars Reward.
RAN-AW AY from the Subscriber, on the 49th
an apprentice I,ad, named JOSEI'H
3ARNET, by trade a paper-maker; about lit
years of age, five feet seven or eight inches high,
of alight complexion, ties his hair. Had on, and
took with him, acallor hat, half worn, one brown
mixtare cloth «sntce. new, one lrjht do. half
worn, one striped velvet waistcoat, with bive
cloth backs, one do. with fullian backs, and 11111-
dry other thin clothes. It is probsble he will chirta
his as he took a number with him.
Any person apprehending said apprentice, and
securing him f, that I can hiih agiin, IhsH re
ceive the abovo, reward, and reasonable charges if
brought home.
PETER. BECHTEL.
Lower Mcrion townftip,
Mon'go-nery county.
October 30. N I.—law 3w.
[Vetvius XII.-%fje layette. 2
PHILADELPHIA, £
'T'aia.AY EVENING, HOrEMSZR if. Inl
I ; -« i ny
lor, the Gas£TTß of the United States- an
TO THE PUBLIC. , be
Voii'mued from yjlefday 1 / Gazette. an
I Pk'.l in this place mention ray reasons irr
For a Hurting. in my former publication, that fa
»« Qr. Oniric ought to have been the lait per- h:
foil in the worty to mention any th ug in al- I
lulion to the mortality of that period"— w
meaning the month of September, andmorV.
efpi'ciafly that part in which the firft letter
of Dr. Cutrß, above quoted, came out. —
We find hare that Dr. Currie afftrts, that f
bfter the "firiSeji enquiry" he was " con
vinced" that there were not mure than " 40
or 50 in the whole city"—" ronjined bv tt
the genuine yellow fever." Let us pot this j r
affeition in its proper light ; for it is the ir
greatelt insult that Dr. Currie could have it
offered to the feelings, as well as to the un- d
derftandinga of the citizens. At this very I
time, and for some days preceding moh than ii
tint number w;re daily falling vieb'm* to the a
disease—as the following statement (hews : n
" September 14 —died 48 il
15 56 I
16 67 r
*l7 ' 81 c
18 68 I
19 <sl 1;
20 67 t
( * This is the date of Dr. Currie's letter. )'■ t
'Tis true —-the Dr. had the sagacity to
difcoverthat there was " another formidable l
disease prevalent" —the " common remit- r
tent,or fall fever." Whether Dr. Currie, r
in his own praftice, fuffrrs his patients to c
be carried ofFby this "formidable" disease !
I know not.—ln general it is not fatal. But 1
let us uow take a view of Dr. Currie's 2d c
pamp'alit, p. 15, 16, which was publiflied f
in January 1794. Here he fays "as soon v
as the contagion had reached the central part t
of the city, the difeafc spread with ajlon- f
ijhing rabidity. In tht course of Augufl,
there were more thau 300 funerals ; tow- f
ards the clufe of the mou»h, twenty were f
buried of a day." Does Dr. Currie mean i
that they died of the " genuine yellow fe- a
vcr" or of that formidable disease " the 1
Common remittent or fall fever" ? He goes c
on again to fay, " In September the diieafe c
increnfed amaxingly In the course of the inonth c
about 1400 citizens Were added to the lift of I
mortality ; towards its close, from 50 to 90 t
were buried of .1 day,'* &c. 1
Surely, Dr. Currie, if you have the small- t
c sV sense of (harhe—you will blush at thus t
expoftog and refuting yot/rfelf!
Tt" lifftory of Dr. Rufli's conduft to
Dr. Glentworth, is grossly misrepresented. <
Dr. R. found Dr. G. with a full and tense
putfe, the pupils of his eyes dilated, and his 1
head affecled with great pain. In this (late
of his disease he advifed*b!eeding- To this
lir, G. nhjgfted unless Dr. Currie approved 1
—ft! u. 1 l?i» —ft. tHgc not' :!
praftice as he did in the prevailing fever,
andoNefted to eonfulting with him. Up
on this he took his leave of Dr. G. but not
without ijrgiflt him a 2d time to be bled,
and gave as a reason for it, that he had
symptoms of an hydrocephalic tendl icy.—
Dr. R. denies that he even h'nted to him to
fettle his affairs. This ndvice he has never
given without the request of the friends of
the Tick; and then in am; that I be
lieve has never offended, or been complained
of by any body. Dr. G. it is true, rfcover
td without bleeding (though Dr. C. asserts
that he was reduced " aknoft to death's
door by the violence of his remedies") af
ter a long confinement to his room. Dr. C.
seems to suppose that bleeding is used only to
five life-. Those who undc-rlland the use
and benefits of this remedy, know that.it is
often prescribed to Jhorten the duration of
acute diseases, and to prevent their termina
tion in such as are of a chronic nature.
Mr. Connor had the usual symptoms of
infeftion in his eyes and pulse when he called
' upon Dr. Ruth-—for which he advised him
to use the depleting remedies. They had
the desired effeft, and soon romoved his in
disposition. Dr. R. saw Miss Cownor but
once during her illness; for he was so worn
iovvn with fatigue and fickiiefs, that he was
forced to confine his vif;is towards the close
of the d'feafe, chirfly to his old patients.
Miss C. was attended chiefly by myfelf—
and I think it highly probable that a more
liberal use of the depleting remedies, would
have rendcied the issue of her disease differ
ent from what it was. Dr. Currie, who,
in 1793, 1794 and 1797, preferibed with
fafety and success much larger and more fre
quent doses «f the mercurial purges than were
taken by Mifß C. cannot and does not believe
that (he died hi consequence of their dras
tic operation.
The patient whom Dr. R. refufed to visit,
in consultation with a Bark and Wine Dr.
was Mr. DaVis, then partner with Mr.
Chancellor. The reasons we have already
given winch induced Dr. R. not to consult
with a p'uyfician who did not praftice in a
similar way with himfelf—lt is not neccffary
to repeat them. In eonfequence of this
i~fufal, Dr. R. was requested to visit and
attend Mr. D. alone. He found him with
a full pulse, and great k" 1 and burning in
his stomach, under the use of tonic remedies.
He had been bled, hut Dr. R. thought too
(paring!)'- He ordered him to lose eight
ounces of blood which afforded him consi
derable relief. Mercury was likewise ex
hibited libeVally in his cafe, under the use
of which he recovered. As a proqf of the
dcftrutlive effects of in this fever, I
mu | a dd here, that, my fellow-ftudent,
Mr. Fi!hs>r, thought he had injured Mr.
Davis by 2 few fpoopfuls of the infufion of
the bark which he had prescribed for him
a ft e r lie had overcome the inflammatory
symptoms by the depleting remedies.
Dr. Currie lias asserted that " Those ac
quainted with the causes and laws of conta
gion, thought him (Dr. Rufn) insane."
This expression of the " causes and laws of ,
contagion" has frequently- helped Dr. C.
at a non-plus, asaliy cne will fee who reads
his publications. In being charged with 1
insanity, Dr. llufh has (harcd in the calum
ny with many men who have darei to think
and aft differently from the habits and pre
judices of their cotemporai iea. It would
be happy for Dr. C. if his Conduft in 1793
and 1797, had fubjefted hita only to this
imputation. The incoiiliftency, folly, and
falfthoods of his publications and conduft, ,t
have procured him very different epithets.
I need not name them. No lapse of years r !
will ever \<-ear them away
JOHN REDMAN COXE. u
(To h- ""Hi'" '"* ) '*""" " a
For the Gazette of /a* United States. e
Mr. Fenno, "
As Mr. Cobbett's condescension in at- "
tempting to palliate tjpo charge of publifli- M
ing sentiments unfriendly to lour revolution, J
implies a difavowai of any defi'gn to discredit ''
it, I fnould be at variance with my former r
declaration, were I not to fay, I was pleased. 0
I can by no means however admit, that the
imputation was unfounded. In the inflance v
alluded to, the merit of Mr. Gibbon being
made to reft upon his loyalty, the want of \
it, is of course the reproach applied to Dr. c
Franklin ; and in this view, certainly war- 1
rants my inference of its involving a "general
censure upon the afters in the revolution. 1
Nor can I think it at all material, to the eftab- j
lifliment of my conchifion,tobe able to prove
that similar sentiments to those ascribed to ' 1
• the Doftor, were uttered by others.
If Franklin was treacherous and malicious, ]
he certainly did not fft:w these qualities in |
requefling Mr. Gibbon's company. If his I J
re«l design ,was to assassinate the historian, I
can only fay, it does not appear j and I be- I
lieve moil men will admit, that there was at '
lead as much wit as malice in the Doftor's
effenfive retort ; . (or prediction, ifitmuft be
so :) or if even the latter predominated, it
was so far frori* being a ivanton attack, that
there was fufficient cause to excite some re
sentment, in the mod milky disposition
With refpeft to the'publication of the
story, (whether true or not) I make no dif
ficulty of faying, that in my opinion, it was
improper, and that it had but too much the
appearance of " a fort of dunghill-cock tri
umph." Though I cannot think it either
decent or necessary, especially upon a prin
ciple of conciliation, that every idle, injudi
cious, or malevolent news-paper paragraph,
' (hould be repelled, at whatever expence to |
the feelings and charafters of not the least 1
refpeftable part of the community—and |
those too, who may as much disapprove of t
the publication, as Mr Cobbett himfelf.
As to my being a bitter enemy to Great
-1 Britain, an abettor of " certain political va
garies", a protestor of " American baseness",
and a " lover of revolutionary France 11 , I on
-1 ly smile at the insinuations, harsh as they are.
■ " Sejanus, IVolfey, hurt not honejl Fleuri."
1 But from what Mr. Cobbett could have tak
l en up these ideas, lam at alofs to conceive.
~ To right howevar, let him be affur
, ed, that Mr. Fenno's subscriber, Tees the
- folly and baseness of too many of his eoun
t trymen with equal concern and indignation.
, That in love to revolutionary France, he
I yields not even to the editor of Porcupine's
Gazette :—and as to Great-Britain, with
3 all her errors and vices (and little perhaps
r as America may owe her,) considering the
f (Station in which she has .been, fortuitoufly
- placed, by the dreadful convulsions of Eu
-1 rope, so far from wilhing her downfall, he
- considers her preservation as of real inipor
-8 tance to mankind, and has long looked up
s on her as the barrier betwixt the world and
anarchy. He makes this declaration, not
. because he thinks it due to the manner in
0 which his observations have been treated,
e but because he takes the sentiment tobejuft,
s and knows it to be honest, and as it may
f serve to (hew, that if he is au officious, he is
1- not an uncandid defender of American
honour.
if When Mr. Cobbett tells me, that recon
d ciliation and harmony with the ignorant and
n rancorous, is not to be effefted by mildness
d and forbearance, he need not have added his
1- assurance to give weight to so obvious a po
it fition. But »f he will again take the trou-.
n Me of perusing my remarks, he will perceive
w that die animosities to be buried, were not
"e the wife and the ignorant,
s. the generous and the rancorous, but between
- " the people of the two Hations" ; that is,
■e between the good and faithful fubjeUs of the
d king of Great-Britain, and the good citizens
r- of the United States of America—if I may
3. be excused the vagary.
:h Why such emphafisandfignificance,(hould
e- have been attached to the word fubferiber,
re it is for Mr. Cobbett to explain. It was
fe innocently adopted as .a (ignature, without
f- any idea of the terrible effefts it was said to
oroduce upon some of the printing tribe,
t, Taking into view the word which precedes
r. it, it was probably fuggeiled by a desire to
r. sccount for the length of time which must
ly elapse, between the appearance of the offen
ilt five paragraph and my notice of it. Had I
a been mean enough to intend it at a threat,
ry how could I suppose it to have the smallest
lis operation upon the pels-disclaiming editor
id of Porcupine's Gazette, efpccially as it is
th not said whether I am, or am not his fub
in fcriber. Ego et Rex metis. Sat. Sap.
•s. But as enough in all conscience, has alrea
-00 dy been said upon the fubjeft of poflibly a
ht mere inadvertence, and which owes.perhaps
si- its chief importance to vhe pertinacity with
x- which it has been defended ; I wilj willing
ife ly dismiss it with an assurance, that I refpefl
he an independent fpirit,and that I fee nothing
I \mamiable in national partiality, when duly
nt, correfted by candour and "liberality. Still
Ir. with Mr. Cobbett's leave,
of A Country Subscriber.
im The Medical Lctrures
"y In the University of Pcnrfylvania, are post
poned until the lift f.lor.day ill Novcmbci
ac- next.
ta- O&ober 14. Uwt-v-
„ jLeu Foreign intelligence. but
part
PARIS, September c. tern
COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRFD. voic
Permanent fitting of the 4th itij. dec
The following is a <hort fketchof the debate tys
on tie motfonsmade for erasing the names suss
of f»mc of the members of the Council ed
fromthe lift of those ordered for tranfpor- f
tatian : acq
Norraand. Savary, " The officers who his
served in La Vendee know, that Normand alw
diftingtiilhed himfelf in that warby his brave- fen
; ry and good conduct. He is a young man cn«
who pqfTefles much zeal and patriotism ; but fed
upon his »ntry into this assembly, he was 1
misled by perfidious men. I move that his cor
name be struck off the lift. Boulay second
ed the motion. " Normand was the usual I( "
reporter of the military committee ; but that e
. duty was put upon him because he had a , tio
good "voice, and was more accuflomtd to the I ore
Tribune than his colleagues. He has con
t feffed to me that he was often compelled to ( ' e
r make reports which were contrary to his
opinion."
Ta'.lien, " If my testimony be of any j ] e {
s weight, I can attefy that Normand fought ha
r well at Quiberon, and that he obtained the foi
f erteem of Gen. Hoche by'his excellent con- th
dust in La Vendee.—Normand was ordered na
to be erased from the lift. an
j Thibaudean Bouh'y, "In confidopng j ia
tlie lift which the committee has presented
to us, there is one/eutimeirt which certain- of
e ly muil animate this council. It is, that all
0 the lift should be as ftiort as poffibleand con- w
i tain only the chiefs-of the party : they are
. j few in number, and the others ar« only raif-
n ' | led. Every member of the council ought
; s 1 to propose exceptions in favour of such of 0 1
j his colleagues as hethinks it. I pro- tli
._ pose one in favour of Thibaudeau. (Mur- p'
t muts. Some voices, " Yes, yty" Thibau
deau can only be reproached for some errors
e in his last report. (Murmurs.) In the t j
t important cri/is in which we are placed, bi
lt while we are required to pronounce judg
ment on the fete of our colleagues, the mod ti
perfe£l liberty ought to reign amongst us.
c Ido not knovr Thibaudeaaperfonally ; but (
p_ I have marked him in his political career, 0 ,
la and I know tint he has at all times rendered n
ie great service? to the revolution, and has ' n
i- given the ftrcngeft proofs of his attachment n
, r to liberty and the constitution. I move that t!
Thibaudeau be erased from the lift." (Se- P
j' veral members, " agreed, agreed.") Har- "
( dy, I (hall not speak ei,ther for or against ]?
„ Thibaudeau : but I must observe, that the
-1 (j | nions that a deputy may have uttered, but
3 f; to a vast eonfpiracy which must be defeated.
Under similar circumstances, the Conventi
on did not rote the exclusion of its mem- t
a _ bers en majfe, but individually. T move that t
> we adopt the fame mode, and that the Coun
n_ cil fiiall pronounce upon the fate of each 2
c individual in order upon the lift, after hear- c
1 ing every member who cbufes to speak for
l or against his punifhment."-«-This motion <
e was agreed to ; and the Council ordered <
r [ the lift to ic read a second a time. The 1
le tranfportati»« of all the members inferibed <
n _ on the lilt was ordered, down to 1
n _ Doulcet.—-Dumontdu Calvados, "Doul
le cet, by his coududl for these fix years past, :
> 8 has merited the efU'tnj of all" true patriots. ■
I know him : I have been couftantly with 1
p S him. In common with him I have shared 1
le the perfections of aristocracy ; and we all
]y know, that in the convention he always tef
n_ tified an inviolable attachment to the repub
lican government. The royalists would re- 1
ir _ joice in his proscription. He never was a
p_ Clichian. I know him very well, and there- :
fore undertake his defence." Hardy, " The
ot name of Doulcet was found among the pa-
j n pers of Lemaitre ; but it must not be for
gotten, that when they were read in the
convention, he completely juftified himfelf.
3 y I have but one word to fay—Doulcet is one
of the twenty-two who were proscribed on
an the 3 1 ft of May. I move he be struck
of the lift." Bellegarde, " I was for five
n _ months upon a mission, in company with
;1 j Doulcet, during the siege of Lisle : i attest
that his conduct was unexceptienable, and
that his principles were always those of a
lo _ sincere and good republican. I support the
lU _ motion-V The names of Doulcet and Thi
:ve' baudeau were ordered to be erased.
10t Bailly.—Males, "We ought to punilh
llt the leaders us the eonfpiracy, and not those
, en who have been led and deceived : Bailly is
j-j of the latter class, and no fails appear a
hc him. Befidc-3, he was formerly a
ens P" e ft> an< l to °k constitutional o=th,
l3 y which he never wojk! ret raft ion this ac
count he was insulted and vilified, agreea
ble to the fafhion whiclt lately prevailed.
„ I move that his name be erased."—Order
' j
vas e '
3Ut Decrecy.—Taillien, "We do not yet
to know this member. I move that he be
| str _ struck off, imlefs some aceufation be sub-
j ts ftaatiated against him." No member spoke
t0 and Tallien's motion was carried.
Richoux.-—Eudes, " I rife to speak in
" erN favour of this member, who is my colleague
jj . for the department of Eure. He entered
. at) j zealously into the cause of the Revolution
so early as the year 1789, and was elefted
; tor a member of the Convention, It belongs
; s less to me than those who were member? of
tha#celebrated Affemblv, to pronounce up
;ap onliisfate; but I move the order of the day
rca _ upon his name." Richoux was ordered to
lv a be erased.
la p S Duprat.—Labroufte moved an exception
in favor of Duprat. (murmurs.) Btrgo
in<r- '"&• " I call assure the council, upon the
authority of the miiiifter of police, that this
jjj in . member was one of the most daugerous in
j u ]y the Legislative Body. The correspondence
itill w hich he held with the emigrants and the
priests of his department was notorious, and
u tended greatly to embarrass the police,"
The motion was negatived.
Tarbe.— Hardy. " I have known Tarbe
since the commencement of the revolution,
and 1 alwaiy* belie v ed him to be a goodpat
tf. riot. lam ignorant, however, hov far he
has been Involved in the plot, of .Clitchy ; Cure
but I observe that Tarbs i 9 from the a:- the
partment of Yonne, and agreeable to the I
terms of four resolution, which declares poii
void the eleftions of that department, his of
eleftion is annulled. lam of opinion that mal
: J) Is exclusion from the legislature will be a T.h
i fufficient punishment." Tarbe was order- ide;
1 ed to be erased. fori
Simeon.— A member. "I am not much mo
acquainted with Simeon, but I have been >
:> his colleague in fev";ral committees. I was pol
d always of opinion, that the principles and apj
- sentiments he profeffed were truly republi- ouj
n ca»; besides, I know that he has purcha- lie.
t fed some national property."
s Bergoing. " l'he m afures presented by the !Gr
s committee were planned in concert with the! 1
[_ government,, and there are proofs of Simeon's ' c jj
. b;i»ig inculpated m the eonfpiracy." Si icetti. • .
1 " After the taking of Toulon, Sirrteott ernijra -
lt t ed, and remained there 14 months. Theq'ief- 1 * :, ~
a ! tion 'beinz put on the name of Simeon, ic rm;
le i ordered to remain on the lift. | tht
I- Noqgier Malgay. — A member stated.that this 'mc
0 deputv was an oH and an infirm man, who
• c odld not f ipport the fatigue of a long voyage •
1 j He was ordered to he struck out of the lift. j ,
| K.lit el. — Pcuilaiii Grandpre. *'" It is doubt- !
>y I less in confrquence of fee omiHion, ihatwe
it have not heard the name of Hamrl mentioned ; : th<
le for he is infinitely mjre, dangerous than many re;
n- that have been placed upon it. I movethathi6 a u
.(j name be fu'ifci ibed." —'Ordered. _ j r
The lili was read a third aud fourth time, . .
and finally adopted in the manner in which it j
'S has already been puMiftred.
-d fean^Debrv. —" D.mbtlefs every proportion jde
II- of clemency find , a lavorable xeception in this ■ du
at afiembly I have voted for several exceptions jha
jj__ which have been proposed ; but cur present ft- ■
tuation requires that we should pay less conD- j rp
y deruion to individual interefls thjn to general I
fafety ; we ought no v to expose ourselves to the i
dangers of a new revolution, nor to the chance j **
of of .being re-plunged in that abyss fom which
o- the wifdpm of the dirpflory and the devotion th
, r . of the armed force have rescued us In present- e»
u _ inp the lift which has keen read, the committee re
had certainly reasons sot propofins; that all these c}
j l men (honld be banished from France. ■ I move
tint those who have been erased from the lift. 1
d> be allowed' to retnniiv in the republic, but that
g- iheylhall not he permitted 10 fit in the leyilla
>ft tive body." The council palled to the order of
4S> iheday. _
ut The Terrorists-—Merlin de Thionville —
*■ While yoy combat with courage the friends .
. of royalty, you ought also to subdue those ef a-
ei * narchy. Felix Lepelletier, Antojielle, and O- d<
138 ' mar, are at this moment employed in. recom- F
•Dt mencing their intrigues. You hive ordered
iat the leaderi of the royalist fait ion to be trant- q,
j e . ported—you ought to adopt the fame measure t j
with regard to those of anarchy. I move that a
proposition on this fubjeiTt be referred to the P.
committee.
:he The council palled to the order of the day.
pi- The fitting was fufpendedat midnight. I
>ut o
ed. 19 Fru&idor, Sept. 5. e
iti- A resolution, bearing that the army of v
:m- the interior had deserved well of its coun
xat try upon the 4th, was read. 1
un- Chazal moved that to it be added, that I
ch all the armies had deserved well of their t
:ar- country.—Adopted.
for The revolution, said Balleul, was prin
ion cipally direfted against the privileged or- ;
red ders. Is it not absurd then to fee them in 1
she the administrations ? Ought the protection ;
bed of tht republic to be committed to such 1
hands ? 1
»ul- He moved that a committee should be
aft, appointed to consider whether all the ci de- ;
sts. van! men of title, who (ince the revolution, ]
?ith have not conftantlj laid them ailde, ihould
ired not Le included among the emigrants.— J
: all Adopted. _ ]
tef- Sept. 5, at night. 1
ub- General Jourdan —" Citizens Reprefen- 1
; re- tatives, the French people, the armies, the
is a government, and you, chose a republic ; ,
ere- and the resolution you came to yesterday, ]
rhe and which has been fanftioncd to-d yby
pa- the council, (hew the world that you
for- are determined to preserve your liberty or
the to pen'fh. You have, Representatives, on«
felf. more duty to perform. The enemies of the
one republic will endeavour, no doubt, to
lon blacken the immortal day of the 4th of
uck September ; they will try to make the good
five people in the couutry believe that liberty
vith has been opprefled ; they will perftiade them
tteft that these steps have been taken against the
and will of the legislative body, and that you
of a are not free. Well, I will propose to you
: the the means of making our real iituation
rhi- known to France and to the armies. It
will be necessary, by an address prepared in
inifti this council, and agreed to by the other,
hose to assume to yourselves that portion of glo-
Iv is ry which belongs to you for your firm, cou
ir a- rageous, and prudent conduit. 1 his ad
■ly a drels must also state the crimes of those
Eth, conspirators whom you have brought to
ac- juilice.
eea- " Perhaps these men who would persuade
iled. their fellow citizens, that a republic can
;der- exist without republicans—these men who
wi(h to .destroy the constitution of the third
yet year,andvetwho are continually praifing,it,
ebe will accuse you for your conduft. Under
sub- these difficult and extraordinary circum
ppke stances, Representatives, this is the answer
—you opprefled the people ; your poniards
ik. in were wet with the blood of our best citi—
ague zens, and that constitution which .you now
tcred appeal to you every day attacked,
it ion " You placed yourselves in the ranks of
;cled our enemies ; you offered us battle, and
ongs we have conquered you ; we may use all
:rs of the rights of vi&ory, but we •will not take
e up- your blood.—Liberty haß triumphed, and
e day that is fufficient. 1 therefore move that a
ed to committee be appointed to prepare, within
three days, an address to the French peo
ption pie." —Agreed to. [This fpecch was or
ergo- dered to be printed.J
n the Bent3bole.—" It is not enough for you
t this to have heard the cries of true republicans;
>us in you ought also to hear the cries of all ho
dence j nest men, and to make those who have fjt
d the j tened on the fpoi's of the nation give an
, and account of their fortune. I am far from
lice," j wishing to touch private property ; but the
I good of the nation is the good of every,
["arbe ' one, and not of individuals. I require that
jtion, j thole whom the confidence of government
dpat-1 had placed in an important adminillration,
r ar he ;be bound to render accounts. This mea-
r
sure is founded on the con/tit uiiort, afcdoa
the .justice which you owe the nation."
Portier de l'Oife—'" The committee ap« k,
pointed to make a report upon the arrears
of the national accounts, will be ready ta
make their report on Sunday fe'nnight.
T.his report agrees perfe&ly well with the
ideas of my colleague Bentabolle, and there
fore I move the order of the day upon hia
motion." Agreed t6.
Andouin, in a motion of order, pro
posed that a committee of five members be
appointed to report upon the means that
• ought to be adopted to prtfervc the repub
lic.
j The council appointed for that purpose >
: ' Gregoire, Jean Debry, and Vil'ars.
; ' The dire&ory sent a melfasre to the coun
cil of five hundred, in which thtjtfexprefs
a hope that the change which hacFTrren ef
: I fefled, would give to their application for
1 financial relief that fuecefs, of which, by
| the intrigues of the royalists, they had for
-8 ' merly been disappointed. The following
" objects of revenue are pointed out:—l.
To regulate immediately the direst taxes of
" the 6th year. 2. To exadl from the col
e letters obligations si r the payment of what
; | they recover. 3. To modify the duty oF
y regiftrajion. 4. To raifc the duty 0/ land
s and water carriage,, and aboliih banking.
'5. To eftablii a national lottery. 6. A
j duty of toll fo'f the support of highways.
17. To impofc a duty of registration on law
dends and proceedings. 8. To establish a
is ! duty of an hundredth part on paper or
•s . hanging-paper mannfa&ured in France,
1 double on the fame articles imported, gr.
'■j j To make transferable all the public debt al
e | ready funded or to "be'liquidated, and to
j admit it in payment of national domaiss.
h 10. To authorise the direftory to take all
m the measures necefTary to secure the femcrs
'■ ere:i by anticipations upon the. revenues not
y recovered, so iupply the expense of the
campaign, if peace is not couclrided.
ift T' r " "" ' 1 —'" j —.
t _ By this, xla/' 3 - MiuL
of
7IEW-YORK, November 9.
Summary view of the intelligence by the
a _ last arrival from Europe, in addition to the
). detaijed account of the proCcriptiQns in
n- France. ,
-d The infurre&ions in Piedmont are nearly
quieted. In the correspondence between
re the Sardinian minister and general Buona
[l£ parte, the latter has declared that he had
rigidly forbid the French to interfere in the
local concerns of his Sardinian raajefty.—
He hasalfo given permission to a Sardinian
officer to enter into the fortreflea garrison
ed by the French troops, to fee that no
of works were conftrudting by the garrisons.
tn- The new constitution proposed by the
Batavian people, has been reje&ed 1 one
rat hundred thousand votes against twenty four
eir thousand.
Accounts from Vienna state that} a Mr.
in- Louis had been dispatched from Paris by
or- Barthelemy, the director, to inturcede with
in the Emperor for the release of La Fayette
ion and his friends, and that this wasaffcntedto
ich by his majeily, on condition of his abandon
ing France and retiring to America,
be The Ligurian republic (Genoa) has heen
de- acknowledged by 1 the dukes ofTufcanyaud
an, Parma.
jld Rumours of war increased in Italy, in
> — August Mantua was ordered to be sup
plied with ammunition and provifiuns^—hea
vy cannon had been conveyed from France
en- to Italy.
the The emperor's officers have declined re
ic ; ceiving a courier from the Cisalpine repub
ay, lie—declaring that his . Imperial majesty
by knevr of no such republic,
sou Another plot of the defenders in Ireland
'or has been detested-—it was to murder all the
on« iriends of government,
the The emperor continues all his pepant
to tions for war, and has lately renewed the
of Hungarian troops of the Levy in mass.
ood The young king of Sweden is to marry
:rty the princess Frederica of- Baden, daughter
lem of the hereditary prince,
the The ditt of Ratiibon have publiflied their
you conclufum refpetting a general peace—de
you claring they are ready to concur and fend
tion ministers to a general eongrefs, when ap-
It pointed, to negeciate a peace on the princi
iin pie of preserving the Germanic constitution
her, and the integrity of the empire,
jlo- The French squadron from Toulon has
ou- arrived in the Adriatic gulf and joined the
ad- Venetian fleet. The destination is not well
iofe understood—Certain it is, that the provin
to ces which eompofed ancient Greece are ripe
for infurredlion ; the Ottoman Porte is al
iade armed and is taking measures to repel revo
ean lutionary principles.
.vho One of the mod alarming and fatal eff
hird eftsofthelicentioufnefsof the prefentdemoe
r, it, racy in France is the deftru&ion of the na
lder tienal forefts. The direftory have addrefied
um- an urgent message to the council on the fub
vver j e <3. The ruin of those forefts cannot be
ards repaired in a century, and France will be
citi- compelled to depend on imported timber
now for ihip-building. Not to mention the scar
city of fuel that inufl ensue ; as in France
s of wood is almost the only article of fuej.
aJtd A body of the difaffected Poles have
e all gone to Italy and joined Buonaparte's
take troops ; by means of these men, and other
and renegadoes the neighbouring eotin
lat a tries, the democratic principles will hereaf
ithin ter creep into all the arbitrary government*
peo- in Europe, and gradually extend to Asia.
s or- The eye of philosophy should not overlook
these trifling facts, as from them maypro
• you ceed vail revolutions.
:ans;
1 ho- J>y a legal decifron of the courts in Wefti
: fat- minster, (if vvc recolleft right, it vras in the
'e an cafe of Li v efay &Co ) it was eftghliihed
from a s a principle of law that the consignor of
t the goods may flop them in traniitrey or *
:very, they are received by the consignee, in cafe
that of the bankruptcy of the consignee before
ment the goods come to his hands,
ition, A decilion at Nisi Prius, before Mr. Juf
mea- ties Grofe, in Bristol, has lately puljlifliedanother principle of equal importance to the
mercantile world ; that* when goods, under
the above circumstances, are (hipped on board
of a-veuel chartered by the purehafer or cori
fignee, the consignor cannot stop' them, tho'
the cohfignee or purehafer on credit, before
their arriv.il, becomes bankrupt, The judge
declared it was a plain cafe, the veflel being
the warehotiffc of the party that chartered
her, and (hipping the goods on board her,
was a efbmpftte delivery so as to change the
property.
Tliis principle is very important at all
times ; mor< efoecially in precarious times,
when goods are often purchased on credit
for the purpose of keeping Jack alive from
day to day.
Thetxpenfes of this city for the last year,
as dated by authority, amount to 42,8911.
(equal to 107,227 dols.) fxclufive of frac
tions.
La Fayetti.
The liberation of the Marquis is not yet
confirmed. It was offered to him on condi
tion of his taking an oath that he would
proceed immediately to America. He re
plied, that though it was his intention to
go to America, he would not fubferibe to
ally oath for the purpose.
It may seem extraordinary at firft view,
that three Direftors, out of five, with the
majority of both cotuicils against them,
flionld have been able to have overcome the
other tfro direftors, as well as the councils,
and this without any violent commotion—
but the plan of the councils and of Barthe
lemy and Carnot failed, as has so often hap
pened on former occafiotis, in a great mea
sure from indifcretion and imprudence
of many of their own party. The plan of
the moderate party was discovered before
its partisans were readv to carry it into ex
ecution, and the indiscretion of some of
their adherents in the councils, not only set
the three direftors upon their guard, but
determined them to (Irike the firft blow ;
Had they waited patiently, it is probable
that the next eleftion of a direftor mud have
added a friend to Barthelemy and Carnot :
but counting, as the pmrrty which have been
overpowered did, for a considerable time,
upon their being able to obtain the support
of Lareveillere Lepeaux, they proceeded
openly with measures hostile to the Direc
tory.
It is lingular that the fate of France (hould,
as we have every reason to believe it did, de
pend upon the decision of a man not endowed
with talents,-—a republican from principle, but
of a temper little suited to countenance the atro«-
cious measures which Rewbell and Barras, un
der the plea of necessity, thought fit to t ike to
effedt their purpose. For some time La Rc
veilltreTrefitated. He was (hocked at the idea
of | new revolution.
Rewbell and Barras took pains to convince
him that the opposite party iu the councils, as
well ,as their two colleagues, meant nothing lefi
than the restoration of the ancient form of go
vernment in France with all its imperfe<3ions—
they pointed out the -proceedihgs of some mem
bers of the'couwcils in proof of this opinion—
thev convinced him of the-favorable difpofitioti
of the armies, e!<emplified> in their addrcfles,
and they aflured. him that no blood (hould be
fted. By, these means they gained him, when
Carnot thought lie was lure of him, and from
tjje time he took his dctermniat on. he never
once f\verve:l from it. Thus, upon the deci
finn of this man hung the fate of Pratice. and
in a certain degree, perhaps, the future securi
ty, happiness, and profp«rity of Great Britain.
(Sun. )
THE NEGOCIATION. '
The following article from the Tmif, of Sept.
I, <we believe to deferye notice, because the
Editor of that paper appears, to hat'e authori
ty for what he piiblifha.
Our readers will have obfet-ved tlirt hitherto
we hive been silent on the ftibjqjt of the pending,
Negotiation, hecaufe we did not consider qiir
felves authorifnd to announceany fails on which
the public could rely. We now think we can
state the following circumstances refpeiling. the
early ftageof the Negociation,without running
the risk of compromising oilrfelves : they are the
propositions made by M. Letourntur in his
Contre Projet delivered to Lord Malralbury, a«
the basis upon which France wouUKran/ent to a
peace with Grrat Britain for herfelf and her al
lies, Spain and Holland.
" France demanded the restitution of all the
peaces taken from her.
11 The restoration of the (hips taken, and the
value of those destroyed at Toulon.
" The abandonment of the use of the title of
King of France. ,
«< An alteration of the Navigation Aft.
" In the course of conversation. M- Letour
neur made some observations refpe-'fling the In
depcndei'c*.; of Ireland, which France wilhed to
quarantee.
FOR SPAIN
« France demanded the restitution r.f what
ever might be conquered from hcv during the
war. tocethir with the restoration of Gibraltar.
FOR HOLLAND.
" France demanded the restitution ofCeylon,
the Cape ef Good Hope, and all other con
certs made from her.
it The restitution of all imps or war, and
compensation for all (hips and merchandize
flopped and brought into port under the procla
mation of his majesty."
It is neceffarv to he underuood, that by trea
ties now existing with Spain and Holland, France
is bound not to leave any pla<-e belonging to
either, in the hands of the Englilh ; and that
the Dirt(£lorv have verv recently made declarj
tiona tn those powers of their ftedfaft intention
not to do anv thing by any pea.-e, contrary to
the constitution, or contrary to the existing
treaties.
Altho' we do not pretend to have any cor
respondent at Lisle, we have reason to be
lieve that the Negociation has not made
much progress since the firtl Pro] efts were
delivered by the refpeftive ambaffadm-s.—
Couriers have been certainly sent from the
Direftory to Madrid and the Hague, un
der the pretence of consulting the miniders
of Spain and Holland on the propositions
made by Great Britain ; but tho' there has
been abundant time to know the dispositi
ons of those two countries, yet we arls per
fuadled the negociation has been at a perfeft
stand, and is probably so at this hour.
It remains then to fee, whether France
will come forward to put an end ,to a farce,
that becomes tircfomc to her to continue to
play, and the means will mod likely be (liort
ly afforded her by the Emperor, who has
infilled upon the complete performance of
the preliminary treaty made with Buonaparte
—comprizing in it the restitution of Man?
tua ; but above all, the appointment of a Con
grcfs, as stipulated, to terminate and adjud
the affairs of. the continent ; and until which
Kve do not believe there wilt be ail" definitive
treaty fignedby the Emperor.
This is the great objlacla, and the grand
bone of contention ; "and the reasons for
France avoiding it are obvious, since (he
would hpve during a long period of discussi
on, three great armies to maintain on her
frontiers, at an incredible expence, the
means of which could only be derived from
her internal resources. It is therefore more
than prrfba'ole that (he will prefer a war of
phmdtr, with the chance of conqiied, to
the risk of internal cofifufioris, which the
railing so much money, and the great drain
of supplies to be found from within would
infallibly produce.
Her<; then the refleftingmind would pause
scarce daring to look forward to the fceces
of blood and rapine, and of revolution,
which another year's war is likely to cause,
(hould France infill on her extravagant pre
tentions.
Eut when we perceive the situation of
France herfelf, the Directory paramount in
mod infta'nees againd all the wilhes and ef
forts of the affcmblies, and of the depart
ments, and raafter of the armies, what, is
there to exp|ft bjit war ? It remains then
only to be hoped that the crowned heads of
Europe, taught by a fatal experience, will
unite in one grand plan, to bring back the
redoration of order, and good and legal
government in France ; to reduce her to her
just bounds, -by which, and by no other
means can the peace and tranquility of the
world be eftablifh^d.
Should nothing occur before his Majesty
returns to town, which holds out the pcof
p«ft of an honourablepeace to thi/j country,
we think that Parliament will be fommoned
to' mrt-t at <4 days notice, according to the
tertor of the aft passed at the conclusion of
the last feffioji, when Mr. Pitt will submit
the proportions made by the Direftory to
Parliament, and take the sense of the nation
on the wisdom of accepting or rejecting
them.
LONDON, Sept. 4.
The Tetter? and papers which we have re
ceived this morning from Edinburgh and
other parts of Scotland, give the most dis
tressing accounts of the situation of that
country, produced by the attempts wade
to put in execution the militia aft.
At Dumfries, at Moffatt, and various
other places, the fame discontents prevail.—
In the county of whieh the Duke of Ham
ilton is the Lord Lieutenant, his grace has
deemed it prudent not to put the aft in
force. The parish of Monkland, atjd some
other parishes, have assembled, and voted
him thanks for adopting this prudent line
of condaft. <,
La Fayette, it now appears, is to be
liberated, on condition of his going to A
merica.
A letter from Verona, of the Bth ult.
fays, *' The municipality of this city, three
days ag«, publilhed the following ordi
nance :
" Whereas citizen George Giufti con
tinues, notwithstanding repeated admoni
tions, to revile the popular government and
equality, and, instead of styling himfelf cit
izen, aflumes the title of count ; since he
daily boadsto his servants that he isofone
of the bell families in Rome, and which is
much worse, continually inveighs agaiilft
the popular government ; the said citizen
George Giufti is' hereby sentenced to pay a
fine of 100 fequitis, which money (hall be
appropriated to ereft a column to liberty,
in the Green-market. Thi3 sentence (hall
be read to citizen Giufti, in the prefenceof
all -his fervant6 and domestics, by the sec
retary of the municipality, to inftruft those
who (hall hear it in the trne principles of
liberty and equality.
" Approved by general Verdiar,
" French commandant in the
province of Verona."
Dispatches were received on Saturday at
the secretary of state's office, Whitehall,
from the coast of' Africa. The French
squadron has not left that quarter, tho they
seem to direst their intention only to impe
ding our commerce, not having (hewn any
designs against any of the settlements.
The following letter we received this
morning :
" Ed'mbucgh, Sept. I.
" I have this morning received a letter
from a gentleman who lives at Tranent, and
on whose veracity I can rely, giving an ac
count of a dreadful massacre c6mmitted by
fomt English cavalry upon the unarmed in
habitants of that village. The following is
an extraft: . y*
" Tranent,Auguft 30. —I would have
■wrote you last uight, but I waited till this
morning in order to obtain feller information
of th« mournful tale of which you vvi(h to
know the particulars. We diftinftly heard
the firirig of the cavalry with their pistols,
which was uninterrupted for at lead twenty
minutes. There has been a dreadful busi
ness going on here, and the military have
behaved with a cruelty the mod (hocking.
Only three men and two women were killed
in the town ; —the reft ran off, and were
hunted in various direftions into the fields,
and single men were (hot at the distance of
a mile "from the town. Several fuffered at
the village of Waeminow, and near Mr.
Dodd's house, being almost two miles to
the eastward of Tranetn. One young man
was pursued by two of the cavalry—he ran
through a field of corn, ami was wounded by
one of them, and fell ; he rpfc, but was
soon (hot dead by the other. I have heard
of 16 ptople having been found dead in the
fields last night and this morning, and a
great n.any more are yet expefted to be
found in the corn fields. One man had
heard tKat his wife was at Tranent ; he went
to fetch out, but was (hot Jn making
tiie attempt! lirjhort, it is eliiwft impofli
ble to relate the cruelties which hav« been
perpetrated. A poor Highlander and his
wife, travelling'from the north to a (Till at
the harvest, were met on the road by fume
of the cavalry, who had by this time receiv
ed orders to the country : t] le poor
roan was instantly cut down by their sabres,
and his wife, in attempting to support her
, dying bu(band, got, with an inhuman stroke,
j one ottier arms cut off—'The man is fmce
i dead. One jefolute fellow, who flew for
: shelter to his house-top, continued to a,{)ail
his opponents with stones, and, after an arm
war. {hot away, periihed in defending li im {elf
with the othe?, declaring that he was de
termined to die in the>ca4jfe of liberty— •-un
til, after having withstood at kail fifteen
, (hot, one or two of which took effe£t, he
: was brought down ; and when in the a£t of
i falling, one of these humane defeuders of
. their country, at one stroke, fevered his
head from his body. Several of the people,
after they were killed, were plundered of
what property they bad at the time. I (hall
make further enquiry to-morrow. The
Cinque Port cavalry, commanded by lord
Hawkefbury, had a principle (hare in this
business." —■
PARIS, August 27.
The following account of the celebration
of the aniverfary of the abolition fcf monar
chy, which took place at Wetzlaer on the
10th inft. has been published by Cherin,
head of the ftaff of the army of the Sam
bre and Meufe.
On the 10th of August last, at three in
the morning, a general discharge of artil--
lery "announced the fete which the army
whs that day to celebrate : a second dif-,
charge took place at five o'clock, and a
third at nine ; which last was the signal fqr
the army to parade iinder arms in front of 1
the camp. Adjutant generals Daltanne
and Simon were ordered to form, with the
whole, a hollow fquarc about the monu
ment 'raised in a plain behind the abbey of
Altemberg—lt was an octagon pyramid
on a quarter base, and sacred to the memory
of the defenders of their country. On the
difffrent fronts of the base were the follow
ing inferiptions :
On the firft—" To the manes of the
heroes who died in the defence of liberty
and their country !"
On the second—" To the republic tri
umphant !"
On the third—" To republican fidelity!"
On the fourth—«" To French courage,
and to vi&ory which attends it!"
The l eight fides of the pyramid bore
each an infeription in honour of the eight
divisions of which the army was composed,
in the following order and manner :
1. Gen. L«febvr6's division—" Like the
legions of Fabius, it swore that it would
conquer, and kept its oath !"
2. Gen. Grenier's division—" It owed its
numerouj successes to its bravery and
prudence 1"
3. Gen. Championett's division—" It asks
where the enemy is to be found, but
without ever thinking of enquiring about
the number !"
4. The artillery and corps of engineers :
for the former—" Like the Mailer of
the Gods, it hold the avenging thun
der !" For the latter—" By th'efe for
treffes are destroyed, and with them ta
lents supply the want of numbers !"
5. The heavy cavalry—" It moves only to
conquer !"
6. The huflar3—" They are always to be
found in the paths of honour !"
7. The dragoons-—What fignifies the
danger ? they know not what it is !"
8. The horse raHgers —" Their prcfenee is
enough to insure vi&ory f"
Above the inferiptions were placed buds
of generals Marceau, Stengel, Dugomier,
La Harpe, Banneau, Dampierre, and Du
bois.
At the last discharge of artillery, all
the general officers assembled at Wetzlaer,
marched out of town to repair to the camp,
preceded by martialmufic playing patriotic
•tunes : all the other bands were already
formed in the rear of their refpe&ive corps.
Gen. Hoche, the cbmmander in chief, made
a speech to the troops.
After the general had harangued the ar
my, it was drawn up in cwo bodies, when
a (ham fight took place on the very fame
spot where, when the f»tne army was re
treating before the archduke Charles, the
brave general Lefebvre. at the head of
6oco men, kept in check 25000 Aullrians,
who already loaked upon him as their pney
—the attack was commanded by the fame
general Lefebvre, whilst the poll attacked
was defended by generals Charopionet and
Grenier.
The troops returned afterwards to camp,
and to their refpeftive cantonments, where
refrefhmenta were prepared for them ; the
officer* attended the commander in chief to
the abbey of Al'erobcrg, where a plentiful
but' not a splendid dinner had been provided
for them ; the itioft affe&iifg concord, an
unanimity of sentiments the nioft alarming
to the enemies of the republic, the mod: p»re
and open hearted franknefs, made the eater
tainment highly interesting even to -foreign
ers who had assembled from all quarters to
fee the celebration of the fete ; and where
Hanovarians, Auftnans, Hessians, and even
Danes, were indiscriminately mixed with
Frenchmen !
When the desert was brought in, the fol
lowing toasts were given and drank with u
niversal applause :
By gef*. Hoche, commander in chief—the
republic—-may her old defenders contin
ue faithful to her ! May their courage,
which has triumphed over foreign enemies
annihilate every faftion at home.
By gen. Lefebvi'e—hatred to the enemies
of the republic ! Hedge firing to tbe ras
cals who fully the foil of liberty.
By gen. Championet —the army of Italy !
We have heard your sentiments, brave
fellow soldiers, and'will march in front
with you.
By gen. Grenier—the public tranquility
j the members of the council of five hun
dred, who are for maintaining the coiig
| ftitution. Death to the , conspirators,
with whatever chain&er they may be in
verted.
By gea. Debilly, commander ia chief of
the artillery—the executive directory—
may it, like the republican fhunder,
which has pulverifcd the enemies of the
country, crufli all traitors and tonfpira
tors !"
By gen. d'Hautpool, commander of the cav
alry—the defenders of the country —may
they, cn their return to their homes,
meet the refjject and gratitude they de
j serve.
By gen. Cherin, head of the ftaff; jh,e
members of government, who by strong
and wife measures (hall cause the ."-'.public
t# berefpefted abroad, crttfh the factions
of royaliiTs, and reftors concord at home.
By gen. Klein, commander of the dra-
I goons ; the army of tht Rhine and Mo
selle, our rival in bravery, and which
I will not fufferitfclf to be surpassed by us
in-patiiotifnii
By gen. Ner, commander of the hussars ;
the maintenance of the republic. Migh
ty politician's of (the club of) Clichi,
deign not to fcirce 11s to found a charge.
By gen.
May that glorious sera be ever held in re
verence by Frenchmen.
Gen. Soultz, adjutant gen. Debilly, and
several other officers-- gen. Jourdan, a
spotless and faithful member of the coun
cil of five hundred. May he, as a legis
lator, give us as good laws as, in h.V
quality of general, he gave us bright ex- 1
amples ; and may he oppose the fame j
courage to domtftic enemies, that he 1
opposed to foreign ones. / j
By adjutant general Claffeloup ; the editors I
of the parriotic newspapers. Perish the j
scribblers in the pay of Blankenburg (the S
rcfidence of Louis XVllI.) and (the
club of) Clichi.
By adjutant gen. Ducheiron—the repub
licans at home in the bosom of France.
May -the disgusts which they are obliged
to experience fervc only to incrfeafe their .
energy ! Let them always bear in mind '
• that the defenders of the country are their 1
friends and incorruptible supporters. |
By a colonel of a brigade of horse—" The
national guards. We are sure we (hall
find none but brethren among them." j
By a colonel of bligade of foot—" The
council of elders. Our hope is in their
wisdom.
By a commissary—'«." A coalition of the ar
my of Italy, of the army of the S?mbre
and Meufe, and of the armies of .the re
public, in support of the co(iftitution of
the third year. May the enemies of our
laws tremble at their union, and quake
- when they consider what they are and
what we are."
By citizen Soubait, commander of the en
gineers—" The manes of general Mar
ceau, Bonneau, and all the other brave
men who fell in the field of honor, and
cemented our liberty 5c jconftitution with
their blood."
By the commander of a squadron of horse—
" The pavriots in the council of five hun
dred—May tbey not be intimidated by
(houts or numbers : they know who are
their friends, and where they are to be
, found."
By a captain of grenadiers* and several other
officers—" the power of the bayonet. It
has put to flight the foreign enemies of
France, and is (fill sharp enough to do
. the business of the robbers at home "
By a veteran—" The firm establishment of
liberty and equality. We shall recover
the vigor of youth, to fly to the support
of the laws of our country."
Between the toasts several patriotic tunes
were played, and songs were sung, suited to
the occalion.
At five o'clock in the afternoon, the com
mander in chief, with his train of officers re
paired to the plain where the pyramid was
erected, and presided at the horse and foot
races, which immediately begaiyunder the
direction of adjutant general Simou.
At nine at night a splendid fire-work was
played off in front of the camp, when the
camp, when the fol'owingj words " liberty
or death !" appeared written in letters of
fire.
The fete concluded with a dreis ball.
■Doneat general head-quarters at Wetz
f lear,the 25th Thermidor,( 1 ith Au
gust) in the sth year of the French
republic.
CHERIN,
Head-os the ftaff of the army.
ftfyt <J5U5tttZ.
' PHILADELPHIA,
F? ID AY EVENING, NOVEMBER 10.
MARUIED —Yesterday, in the neighberhood
of Philadelphia, hythe Rev.BilhopWhite.CaAßLts
"Bamno, jui). efij. of the county of Devon, in Ene
!and, to Mrs. Sosan Hiyward, widow of the
late James Heyward, efq of Charleflon, Scuth-
Carolina'.'
The acconntt from the Illintlw Country are ex
tremely contradictory, confcquently no! to be reli
ed on—We believe yoverumcDt ar« not in possess
ion of any recent difpatcbes from that quarter.
Governor Tichenor, of Vermont, on his accep
tance of the ofiire, made an address to the legisla
ture, couched in terms of refpsdl and gratitude to
his conftituen * and thefl?te;• anJ of attachment
to the conljitut'on, anu aaciiniflration of the Uni
ted Stitei.'
We are happy to hear, fays a correspondent,
that a fubferip/ien 1- opened at the CofFehoufe for
the benefit of those worthy citizens who unrolled
themselves a patrole for the purpole of prefcrv
ing the city from fire, plunder, &c. during its late
deferttd fnu^tion.
It cannot be douVted.tha: every p:rfon who pof
fe'ffes property, and fuftly appreciates the merits 0
the by the patrole, will cheer
fully add their mite, Ss a tcftimony of their
! fe.r.fe of th« merit«rio«i i'ervices performed.
) A CHARiTV SERMQN'
Will be prcnclicd n.ext Sunday,-12 th inft.
by the Rev. Mr. Carr, for the support of
the free school of S-t. Mary's.
cqneivTgT GANAL.
; We are desired to anaounce to the publV,
that this Canal will b« opened, and
f r ' Vt * r boats pass thro' the Locks, on Well
nefday the 22d day of'( this instant) Novem
ber. at o'clock in the forenoon'.
The governor of the Commonwealth, with
a committee of the canal corporation will
attend ; and as many of the citizens of the
adjacent counties 011 the Sufquehanna and
its waters will be ddlrtuis £0 wijnefs a fcenff
so new and pleasing as the opening a lock
nav gation, thro' the most difficult part of
that river, the of the Lancafler,
Carli/le and Harrilburg newfpaoer*
are rtquefted to insert this notice.
CARlFsLeTnov. I. i
The sum of th* general colle&fons mads
in the congregation of Carlisle, for the re
lief of the poor and distressed in the city of
Philadelphia, is r3O dollars and 40 cents •
85 dollars having been received at the firft
collection, and 45 and 40 cents, at the se
cond. Add to this 185 dollars, which a
few members of the said congregation had
raised by fubfeription (hortly before, and
the entire contribution from; this religion,
society will be found to be 315 dollars" an
example of liberality which it hoped other
religious focjeties will imitate,
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHA.
AH RIV TD OAYS
Sloop ,x' 1 woody New-York, 4,
Optsin Filher, of the T hooner Sifters,
of Baltimore, put into Charleston fh diftrcls,
informs that he experienced con ft ant and
violent gales of wind from the 4th to the
I Jth in (tan! ; that the captain of a Philadel
phia brig which ca»>e through the Galph
with him, mentioned that ten fail of Ameri
can ye Pels were loft in the Bahama Straights
—did not learn their names.
Ncw-Torl, Nov. 9.
ARRIVED DAYS
Ship Maria, Sheffield, Charleston
Penelope, Morrel, Bristol 67
Sch'r Huntress, WafTon, Savannah 10
"fi —r nrnrn i n mm || W
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges arc now open and exposed to file zt
that commodious store the north weft corner of
Market ami Fourth ftreeti. mv. TO.
The Office of Sfctetary of State
OF THE UNITED STATES,
IS removed to No. 13, South Fifth street, near
Chcfnu' street. jt nvv. ro. '
Philip Nicklin £<f Co.
HAVE FOR SALS,
At their Stores on Walnut street Wharf,
Havaftnah Sugars, white and brown
25 hhds. Jamaica do, ,
3000 pieces of broad Nankeens
Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighths of chells
QuitkfilvcT in tubs
iVladeira Wine in pipes and hogfl»eads
Tciicriffe Wintin pipes
Old led PortWmc in hogfoead»
Sail Canvass, aborted, No. i to 8
8 cases of Manchester Goods coßfifting of Dimities,
Miffllnett, G:nglii'm»,Tbickfett9, Corduroys, &e.
200 crate!»Qii?ens' Ware, allorted
Nails/afforte l ,
Bla-k quart Bottles
Yellow Ocre in c*ika
A quantity of writing Slates, (late Ink Stands, &c.
Ico quarter cases Gun Pctyder
bavt alfofor SALE or CHARTER,
HAMBURG PACKET,
Burthen tous, coppered to
bendfl, and completely fitted.
Thejbip MOLLY, burthen 340 toas, a
good vessel, and co nnletely si led.
The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
rels. muy i>c; rcaJy for fca in a lew days
The whole of the above vefleis rt> be fcen at
Walnut street Wharf. $ nou I
Wanted to Charter,
To any port in Hifpaniola and back
faft failing Veflel, of the bur
thea ot 6 D" 700 barrels. For terras, apply to
Benjamin Mokgan,No. 170, South Front ireet,
or to ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, South Wharves.
novrrtfher 10. £
India Goods,
CONSISTING OF
Haurial Humhums
Tick ices
}*#'ns Chintz
TafifAties
Punjum Cloths
Choppa ftomal, Pulicat, Barhar and Baa>
danna Handkerchiefs
FOR SALE BY
*JoJ}:ua Gilpin,
No. 149, South Front street,
WH!TtE MAY B£ HAD
Si few trunks of French Goods,
Confiding of plain and striped Silk Hose, Um
brellas and liibbons. Alft, a few boxes Sperma
ceti Candles, and a few barrels fmouked Herrings.
nevemljir 10. *eod6t
SILK. "
AKY person having raw Silk of American or
European produce, may hear of a ,pur
chaser who will give a liberal pr ce for the fame.
Application to he made at. the store of Robert
Lf.wis, jnn. No. 70, Pine Street wharf, any
time before the nth of January next.
Nov. 10. * e °3t.
~N 'O T I C E.
AI.L pe;-fonr. copcerned are hereby
ihat tile intends to nppiy for a re
newal of the tincsi mentioned lotl certificates of
Stock 111 the Bank of th«; United States—llp for
w«4'ded'th. m cover of a letter to
John Anfiey.rf I on Jon. by the liiip Bacchus, cups
George, which left thiV port in June la/l for Lon
don. Cut that (hip having l-ec-i.captured on seer
passage afnd fc;rtto France, ihe above- letter and m
clofure have failed in their deftiniitiou.
Three<ertific;Lte=, viz. .
Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for
four (hares, dated January ift, 1797, arid
issued iii.the name of Henry Grace,, of Tot
tenhan Highcrofs, Great Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Pilt'eJrifilii, nicvdir 8. aiv/6frFOR SALE,
A Team of five excellentHorfes,
M T ith a V/?ggon and G<?ars- Horses are all
young, fii ong, true to the draught, and capable j
of hauling as grt?ta weight as moftin the coun
try. The Waggon and Gears are ftrortg, and
in order. Apply to ROBEHT GREEN) t
Weft Town, Chelter county, or to 2
Thomas Fijher,
No. 141, S.-Second Street, Pliila elphia. j
11 mi>. z, eodjw. (
In the Prcfo, <
And fp.'Cilily will be publilhcd by Wi tli am '
Youxg, No. 52, Second, the corner of '
Chefnut Street, . ]
A VIEW
Of the Science of Ltff. ;
On the principles eiiahlifhed in th# elementi 1
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M. D.
With an attempt to correil some important er- '
rors of that wotk, and cases in
ly fe ! t<fled from the records of their praiitice, at
tbe General Hospital at Calcutta, I
Br William 7'ates cS 1 Chas. Mp.cleak. i
To which is fubjuined, a Treatise on the ai?.ion 1
of Mercury upon living bodies, And its applica- I
ti.m for the cure of diseases of indireiil debdity I
AndadilTeitation otithe fourc<S of Epidftnicand- ■
PcftiSentiildifeufcs; in whichisalte'raptedtoprevt
by a numerous induflion of faifls, that they ne- (
vcf arise from contagion, but are always prouu- j
ced by certain states, or certain Vicissitudes of
the atmosphere, by Chakles Maclean, of .
Calcutta. *
Ocl. jt. Jut
At the Federal Blast Furnace, 1 ,
hi Car■-.<!>—;for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
Mills. ,
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THE 111 superiority conjijls in being free from (
holes and honey-combed plaees, which are com- (
tnor.li found in rollers cajt in sand, or clay ,
tno.iUt, Tbefi patent rollers are cajl in iron J
moulds, prevtoujly heated, and will be ftund to
bemore dense, solid and durable than any, rsliers (
heretofore used. Another important
they, have ever others, is, thai the necks require ]
no turning, but are immedaitely Jit for use, and j
from their accuracy, run <with less friSioi.and
require less ivcter to make them perform their
xvork. 'lkey may be had by appftcation to the
Patentee in Pi/mouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Gtod
<win, or of Mejfrs. Thatcher and Huyu ard
Ho/lon, Aug. tt. Sept. ") §*t-
This Day is l J ublifhed,
BY McfT. Dobfon, Carey, Carrphell, Rice t and the
othrr Bookfeilers,
Price One Dollar and iwenty-five cents,
Elegant y printed on fVovr paper, and Hot
prtjfed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with eath other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of caeh Constitution, and
clslliiigtogether their most impertant proviEons,
'finder the several "heads of administration ; with
Notes and Obi'ervationf.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Oj South-Carolina,
L L. D. and meitiber of the Congress of the ,
United States.
Dedicated to the People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pa
per, at j-4ths of a dollar. ■
February 6 mwf
City Comm'tJJioners' Office,
■ June 11, 1797.
IN pursuance ef an ordinance from the feltiS
and common eouncils, pal Ted the iiA day of
Mly last, appointing the city ccmimiflioners,
and preferring their duties, fcJlion qth,
NOTICE IS HEKEBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diftrifls,
each to he under thre fuperintendance of one of
theeity commilTioners, whoisfobe individually
relponfible for the cleanlirfefs ef the fame, and
are as follow. 1
Driftriil No. v. From the south Cde of Ce
dar-street, to the north fide of Spruce-street, un
ithe fuperiatendence of Nathan Boys.
1. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
the north ftdc of Walnut-flreet, under the super
intendence of Hugh Roberts.
3. Erom rhe north fideof Wslnut totfcefouth
fide of High-street, under the fuperintendtnee of
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fideof High-street, to the
north fidr of Mulberry street, under tbe fuper
&tendence of Williarm Moulder.
5. From the north fideof Mulberrv-ftreet to
the north fide of Vine-street, under the luper
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaningof High-street to be in comraon.
.£3* A ftatcd meeting of the city commiffion
«rs is held at the Old Coiirt House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at s o'clock.
July 14. eoim
_ —^———————
Stands for Draymen, SsV.
In pursuance of an Ordinance from theSeleft and
Common Councils, bearing date the lid day of
April, 1797. providing for tbe appointment of
City Comni'iffioners, (Sc. Sett, the isth.
t"~pHE following plases are fixed upon by the
JL fa id City Commiifioners for Standi for
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-street, eastward of Front-ftre«t, on
both - fides. , , Tr , „
SatTafras, High, Chefnut and Walnut-lltrcets,
eaflward ot Front-street, on the no/th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to
Third-ftrjet. „
Front-ftreat, east fide from Vine-street to
Elxrith's alley- ; n , . .. . ,
Front-street, from oppOsite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's {lores, east fide.
Water-street, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Moorr's stores to Pine-street.
Tenn-ftreet from Pine to Ce-Jar-ftreet, weft
I)! a'wbr : dges north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South ilreets, east of Front
street, south i'de.
Dock-ilreet, between Walrtut-Hreet and the
flag (lone crossings, east tide, dppoSte George
°'secomi-ftreet, between SifTifras and Vine
eaft fide from Chefnut to MtJ
l'eEaV:ffVas-lireet, from Third to Fourth-flreet,
81 No dray or horse to iland within ten feet of
FOR HACKNSr COACHES.
P'me-llrcct, north lide from Fourth to Fifth
between Chifnut and Walnut
fU ßranch V'laet, north fid:, betwsen Third and
T r"-r ■
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. b 3 P. RICE, Bookfeilers,
No. 16, South-Second, :Ul No. 50, Manict street,
HAVE just received by the l ite arriva s from
Lone ton and Dublin, their ipring importa
tion, confining cf a variety of the htsfl and frio'l
approved 1 aw Books, which,addejj.to thoie alrea
dy on hand, forms the molt collection ev
er offered for fa'ein this country. They therefore j
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of thesr
conned), iens in Dublin, they are enabled to fell frith
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowest prices The following are among the latell
publications.
Vefey, jun'r* Reports in Chancery, 2 v..s.
Perake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Report*
in the Dime of Lord Hardwicke ; L loyer's Probers
Pra&ice in the Eccfefiafticai Courts ; Barton's
Treatise on a Byie in Equity ; Tidd's £fa<skice of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal Anions, %
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern 11 vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rice QKpedl receive by the firft ar
rival from New-Yotk ohe 6th vol. comjxlcte of
Durriford and East's Reports," the ad part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
I June 26.
j The History of Pennsylvania,
By 11013ERT PROUD,
IS now in the pfefs, and will be publilhed,
wkh all convenient expedition, by Zf c'ha-
Ri.au Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fuWfcriptin*. will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed propofali, until the
work is ready for the fubferihers.
July 18. lawtf
THIS DAY WAS PUBLISHED,
And for sale by THOMAS DOBSON, at the
Stone House, No. 41, south Second flreet,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR,THE JUViiNILE BUDGET OPENED.
ConlifHng of a variety of Miscellaneous Pieces for
theinftru&ion and amufementof YOUNG PER
SONS- Six Volumes handsomely printedaod bound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these piece* are
such, that the book needs only to be known to be.
universally esteemed one of the m'oft valuable pub
; lications th t can be put into the hands of young
p«rfons.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea how to fli'oot,
To pour tk« frefli inftruJlion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
Theginerous purpose in the glowing breast."
Thomson.
August 24. mwf4w
THIS D AY IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DO2ISON, at the Stone IWo,
No. 41, south Second street.
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Young Ladies, on improving and ii**
tereftuig fubjeil*.
Translated from the Dutch of Madame ,de Cambcn
with alterations and improvements,
Prihicd injihe paper , : ahd noatly b tut id.
Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painfing
tales »f extraordinary djflrefs, or of desperate or
artful vilhiny, whith " harrow tip th- foul," and ;
it would be for the honor of yotirtg ladles to
be ignorant of, thiazide book comes forward to so
licit notice, where, i.i a variety 6f incidents, riot ex
ceeding the bounds of real life> the proper, becatifj
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
hßarafler is exhibited in'in intcreftingpoin! of view,
fctfdprefents example* of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publisher was fomuch pleafeu with the per®-
sal, that he was persuaded he should do a plcafing
ferviceto th# cormuunkjr by leading it in o circu
lation. August 24 —mw4w
Act laying Duties an Stamped Vellum
Parchment and Paper.
A PEW copi*s of the above ail may be had aj
he Office of the Snzetteof the United States, N».
119, Chefnut-flreel. July
The Partnerliiip,
UNDER the firm of FRJEEMAN Is* Company,
is dissolved by mutual confcnt. All pcrfons
having any demandj igainft tWfaid House arc de
sired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to the House arc desired to make pay
ment to him—By whom business will in future be
carried on,at his Store, No. JJ,South Front-street.
Augufl 7. eod4w
Richard and "James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftreet.
. 4 uguft *. 5 w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijburgh Carli/le,
Smppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requclted to take notice, that
the partnerlhip which has far some Kmt sub
sisted betwua Mathhs Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now dilTnlved : b*t, not as M.
Slough infinuatest* the public without jull cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fuh
je£b from M. Slough to W. Gcer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which ii not now deem
ed neceflary. Any gentleman who wilhes to be
more cireumfiantially informed of the merits of
r thi» business, by applying to W. (Jeer may have
, the perulal ef M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Oeer is not perfe&ly juftifiable in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippeofr
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous f»pport the
public were pleased to confer on the firll effort in
this business, William GclT, in conjundion with
Medrs. Rcily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
toprofecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifp-'e'ithat a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can pollibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the palfage £afe and commodious, inform
■ thof4 wno with to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carliile and Shippcnfburg. The lare as lytherto
eftablilTied.
For the further accommodation ot the public,
a Stage will dart every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel F.lder, m Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from thcocc and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so tint paffengeri destined tor
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
I.ahcaftcr, Jan. 27, 179.7.
N. Q. This Line of Stages llarta from the
fioufe of William Ferrae, in Lancaster, on every
Tuclday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and lrorn the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in liarnfturg every Wednes
day'morning, on the fartie evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfourg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
ftmc rotitina daily ai in its tsur frotu Philadel
phia. 'f _ unv f
Thomas Herman
North Fifth ftVcct, corner"bf North aiiey, No. 34, | ,
HAS FOR SALE,
Xj 1 JtCELLF.NTred Bourdeaux Wine incafssand
- -* boxes, fix years old
Wtiite Qriv(i«\Vine in calks
TickteaKiirjjs 1
Ruflia Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck " '
IVag Linen
Heflians
Diaper and Table Cloth
Empty ba<rs
Caramon German Clorh
An aflbrtmcntof black coloured Ribbons
l'jne German Laces
About twelve tons RufTia clean Hemp
Clover Reed
Italian Soap, in fmatlboxes, for-family use
Window ug 39 -*-saw ]
Bourdeaux Brandy j
\ Ditto diet > Claret in cases 1
Just received, and for Sale by ,
Run die £2/ Leech. i
Aug. 21. aawtf
Will be Landed,
From on board the ship Active, Capt.Bi.AiK,from
Hambuigh,
20 bales white Rnffia clean Hemp
2 calks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth (Vrcet, No. 34.
Tune 26. J
TO BE SOLD,
And immediate pojfejjion given,
A Convenient well tinithed Brfck Tenement,
with a cook house and other out bcufet, situ
ated in a pieafant part of the borough of Wilming
ton, in the St:.te of Delaware—The lot of ground
has forty feet front on Wsft-ftreet, aud extends
through the square to Pafturr-Areet, on which is
creeled a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. ,to.
Imported in tbe jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. it£,South
Front-street,
Hvfon
HyfonSkln CfjjAS
Toung Hyjcn t
Imperial J
April tO. tfltf
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
jLvalutibl: Lot of Ground j
SITUATE on the north-eiftcorner of Wal
nut and Fifth fireets, fronting the State-,
House square. This lot is fifty-one set front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen!
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at'
present twofmall two story brick houses, and a
number of l'mall tenements thereon.
Alio, for Salt,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient ftorcs, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-ftrect, between Mulberry and Saflafra*
street*, containing in front on Water street fit
ty-fnur feet, aud continuing that breadth eaftj
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These honfes
aVe the conveniince of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very desirable fitua-
fur a merchsnt, flour fadlor,or others who
may hare occasion for Itorage of goads. This
property will be fold on v#ry reasonable torms
for cafli. For further information apply to the
printer.
July it. m&wtf
T 0~8 E SOLD, *
And pojjejfon given immediately,
ALARGt. two story brick Houfe,handfomely
fit in Princeton." There are four rooms
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, 3 range of back buildings 51 feet <n
lingth, and a piazza of 57 feet. There is a pump
in the yard, an excellent kitchen •garden, at the
farther end of vjhich are a carriage house and two
llables, one or which is new, 44 feet long, wit!
Halls in the two stables for 37 hcrfes. ■ The hi.aV
thinefs and pleafantrefs ol its situation, and the
nuuiber of genteel and agreeable families in and
near the town, render it a desirable ntreeat for a
gentleman from the city. I h'* commodioufntfs of
the house, its ceutral position, and the largcnefs of
vhe ftables,make it every way fuitablefcr atavcrn,for
which it has always been confiderd as a capital
(land. Inquire on the premises, cf
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. 15. 19 —diwaawtf
1 .n 1 - " ■
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwellmg-holife ao,ooc dollars,
ft cash 30,000, are 50,00-.
1 ditto i'j.oco /it 15,00® 40,0011
1 ditto i5,0c0 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 3c cr/B to,ooo 30,000
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 tic ca& 5,000 /o,iioc
- 1 cifli prize of ro,ono
ado. 5,000 cich,are • to,ooo
19 <k). 1,000 - - 10,00 c
»o do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
too do. jo 10,000
400 do. *5 - - 10,000
l,fooO'do. ao - 10,000
15,000 do-. to • 158,000
16,739 Prizes.
33,261 Blanks. '
50,000 Ticketa, at Eight Dollars, 400,00#
N. B. Tofavour thofc who may take a ouan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the l «st drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
. but ok'i :
approved notes, securing payment in either
mon»y Or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not less than 30 tick
et!.
This Lottery will afTord an elegant fpceimen «f
the private buildings to be ertdled in the City ef
Washington—Two beautiful defigus ere already
fele&ed for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawings-it ispropofed toereil
two centre and r our corner buildings as foonaspof
fible after this lottcty isfold, and to convey (hen,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the fehemc for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to dc'fra") the neceflary expenses of print
ing, See. and the fufpltis will be rf.ade a part of
the fund intended for the National Umveriity, to
be creeled within the city of W alhington.
The real feeleritiesgiven for the payment of the
Briies, are held by the President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than haif the amount of the lottery..
SAMUEL BLODGIiT.
Tiebctsmay be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Weft, & Co. Baltimore ; of Feter
Oilman, liofton ; of Joiin Kepkitis, Richmond ;
and of Richard will., Cooper's Ferry.
anVf
This Day Published,
Ah J to lie fold by WILLIAta YOUNG, torner of
Second and Ghefnut facets,
Price 3-B'/Zj of a Dollar,
Observations 'on certain Documents
Contained iv» No. V aud VI of
" The History of the United State# for i
the year 1756," (
In whicb the cu »ftGE of speculation against '
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Tr kasu&y, is
REFUTED. 1
WRITTEN BY HIMS KL F»
This publication presents a concise statement
of the base means pra&ifed by the Ja '.'bias of the ,
United States to asperse the chara&era of those j
ptrfons who arc confidtred as hoftile-to their difor- j
ganizing fchames. It alio contains the cor- t
rcfpondence between Mr. HiimiLtou ami Meflra. .
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Vtnab'c, on the jfub
je& ©f the documents nforefaid, and of lot- i
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha-
milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt, -
that the ccnnedion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a (Jaring conspiracy on the part
of the latter and his aiTociates to extort money.
A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ot wholesale purchaf. rs, for
cash. Orders to be addrefled to Mr Young.
Siwjufi 2J.
No. 188.
D[flrict of Pennfylvaniciy to wit :
(l s ) 11 that on the
JLv twcKty sixth day of July, ia the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Fenno, of the said <fif
tri£l,hath depofitedin this office the title of a boek,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, ia the
vwrds following, to wit :
** Observations on certain dorlments contained
" in No. V. and VI. of " The Hittory of the Unit
" ed States for the year 1796," in which ths charge j
" of {peculation, againlt Alexander Hamilton, late
44 Secretary of the Treasury, i» fully refuted- 1
H Written by himfelf" ,
In conformity to? he a& of 'the Congref® of the
Uc;ted State*, entituled, u An M lor the encour
agement of learning, by securing the copies of ,
maps, charts and books to the authors anxf propri
etors of such copies, during he times tfiereiß men
tioned." j
SAMUEL CALDVSTEI.L,
Cltrk of the itiJlriS of Pennfylvartim.
July 27. W4W
An elegant lioufe in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and elegant boufi: at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. i'4iere are two drawing moms '
and on? dining roam—the largest is 31 f«:et by |
16 —and two are so conneiled by folding doors !
astomake but one. Also, fire, bed rooms, he- j
fides 5 in the garret, well fuiifhed for i'ervantj. I
There are (fables and a co»ch house, with evry i
convenience for a family., Enquire >t No. 29,
in North Seventh street, or at No. 218, Arch
Street;
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY aud BROKER'S OF FidF.
No. 64 south Second-Preet.
""THICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
A commanced drawing the 19th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn ticket®, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the last day ot
drawing./
Check Books kept for examination and regi&er
ing, in thfc Canal, No. 2, City of Washington, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets for sale in the and
Perklomen Bridge lotteries, which -\vill begin
drawing in the courfc «f the fwnimer.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of JHotk,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &c. traniadled with the
utmost a:tention.
June 2 tn'Sfcf
Eifkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBfeRT -CAMi BULL & Co.
No 40 Soirh Second ftneit,
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of theprefent War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas E-sskise.
May 15 J
"STATE 'TRIALS.
Sold b W.Young, Bookfcltar, No. s*,South Ss>
cond-ilrecr,
'she Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtalning the impeachment, trial, and acquit'
al of Francis Hopkinfon, judge of the Court of
dmiralty, aud John Nicholfon, Compwoller Gen
era!—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boatds, J
dollars.
W. Youno has for sale, a generafrffortmentof
Booly. Also, Stationary, retail and by the p&ck
ege, well allortcd, and entitled to the drawback if
axported. July 7-*-*
For Sale,
That well known pfacc, cdihd FAKDtaßiTr's
sHIt,
ON Ne(haminy rrrek, 18 miles from Phila
ladelphia, on the New York port road,
containing 74 acres and 94percfres. Upon the
premises are a large two (lory stone house occu
pied as a trern, and a good one story Aone kit
chen, a large frame stable with aguodthreftiing
floor, and foine bL buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice Iloufe. On
this place is a mod elegant (ituation fora gentle
man 6 feat, commanding a view of the Kelham
iny to its junilion wiih the Delawite, and thence
icroft to the Jersey (hore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Sabfcriber,
MORDECAJ LEWIS.
•* ay t4- atawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOM3KIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpeA, returns' her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he ha« received during four yrtrs refidcn*e in
Philadelphia ; and alturcs her friends and the
public, so far from intending to dtcljne her
ichpol, (h'eliasmadeafuperior.arrangemfiit for
the more convenient ai-commotUtren of ber
fchotars. —Every branch of iifcful and pclite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
' Groombridgc and miSfcri excelling in their
refpeiliveprdfelTioiiJ.
Corner of Sprijce'in'd Eleventh Stvcrt3.
June sth, 1797- ffflfrf
Theiituation is perfeilly healtliy ; aatlniafle
more agrerableby an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the ho«(e.
7 U J* PiM'fecd, ' ~
And to he had of Messrs. Dokfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookseller* in thie
city,price one dollar, fwinty-five cent.si-ri board®,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m.o.
Jure 20. *6t
School Books ancFStationary.
W. YOUN G,
Ko. <2, Second-Hreet, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now rrady for sale, a very large aflort
metit of Engf/Jh, Latin and Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, such elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academie#
and colleges throughout th<? United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large 12 mo price i dol, 75 cts.
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, priming, and
writing Paptr ; Bookbinder's Boards, Pasteboards,
sheathing aud Plotting Papers ; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, of
the bert quality, used in the counting house, or
public office.
Catalogues of a rriifcellaneous coJle&ien of
BOOKS, with tfce price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. Q&. 24* —yaw6v. r
Jujl Publ'tjhed, and now Selling,
By BENJAMIN DA VIES,
At hit No 68, High-Street,
The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AND
ANNUAL REGISTER for tbeUNIT ED STATES
FOR THE YE AR 1758 :
and correA lifts of the Execu
tive, 1 csiflative and Judiciary
DEPARTMENTS of government,
And a variety of ufeful tables, necessary to be
known in every State of the Union*
Embellifbed with two handsome En ravings,
One of which is depictive of a meUricholy fccne
that occurred during the Americafc war.
cy. KB.
The Philadelphia, Atjion, and 1 uekerlwi
MAIL STAGE.
THE proprietors beg leave td inform the public, that
tbey have efablifbed a St acre bet-ween Philadelphia,
Aif ton, Batfio, Hampton, Spee.hvell, and Martha Fur
' nae: y IVading River flittihg mill andthe town of Tuck
, erton, in New-Jersey, 1o go once a week , end areprovi
■ ded uith good horses, a comfortable carriage-, and a care
' ful driver, for the conveyance of the mail t pajfengers, and
goods. ' The Stage will fart every Tlurfday, at IO
g'ctocl, A. M from Mr. Daniel Coope/s Ferry, and
lodge that night at Joel Bodine's, at Longacoming ; aad
on on Friday at -6 o'clock, P. M. arrive at Cileb E*
vans's i inkeeper, in Tuckerton, dif ant from the city 54
miles, (from the Atlantic 6, and from the Eaf Grovjtvg
Plains 7 miles) whete arc good accommodations for tra
vellers , and where are commodious and fofe pajfuge boats
pravided to convey pajje -gers to Capt. William IVar-
I rington's house, on Tucker's If.and, adjoinining the At-
I Untie, ivhere are good accommoaations, and a convenient
place to bathe ; the fportfr.un who ivtfbts to regale himfelf
! teith fowling andf/hing, may at this place be highly gra"
J tifed there being at aim of every fctfon of the year fowl
; andfjh 11 abundance—The Stage on its return, farts
! from the aforefxii C Evans's in Tuckerton, every Tues
day, at 6 o'clock, A. M. bre.ikfafs at John Bodme s, at
Wading River Bridge, lodge that night at Longacoming,
and at 1 o'clock, P, M. on IVednefday, arrive at the
aforefdii! Cooper's Ferry. It is presumed that no route of
an equal difaace will be less expensive. or furnijb the tra'
veller with a greater variety of amufiment, as he will
not oily have a plea/ant fail to the atlant.c from Tueker
ton% but have the curLfty of feeing on the roai&thithtr a
number of c ipital furnaces and forges, and one flitting
mill, incomplete order, and at work ; gentlemen, too, *••/>»
j are owners, or favors, of any of the aforef aid iron works,
I are folieiied to encourage and support this f a £e (by whicm
' tbey can be so well accommoda ed) the continuance of which
wilt much depend on their aid. The rates of pajfengers
and baggage are as follows : For a passenger from the
eforefaid Daniel Cooper's Ferry to Tuckerton, including
14 lb. of baggage, two Dollars ; for way passengers
per fKile, Four Cents—*so lb. of baggage equal to a pas
senger. Pis age of letter >, neivfpapers, life, -will be
agreeably to law.
j.V. B. The mail crosses from the Old Ferry.
TfiOAIAS IVARDLE t* Co.
Tuckerton, Sept. 18. Ofi. $ ,—2'awf
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
Stage furts from the GEORGE Tavern,
JL at the corner ol Second and Areh Streets, itt
Philadelphia, ''very Tuefiay, Thursday, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the rrorning ; arrives at Do
ver the fi'ft day, at Snowhill the fecund day, at
Northr.mnton Court House the third day, and on
*he morning of the fourth day the paffengcr6 find
a fal'e and comfortable packet to convey therm to
Norfolk.
A packet Norfolk for Northampton feiry,
every Tuefdiy, Thurfiay and Satuid&y, and ihe
Stage ftartsfronrithis ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wcdnefday and Friday ; puts up at Snow
Hill thefirft vight, at Dover the ad night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is 2o miles less than on any stage route
between those places.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
[ which is most excellent indeed. The proprietor#
■ willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
passenger, who, after having performed tb-is route,
will fay that hi. ever travelled in a stage for tjie fame
r distance, so good a road in America.
Anrrft 11. dim. eotf.
f
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other fn
1 he City—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to 19 by 14,
By the single Box or Quantity, may be had at the
' store of the Subscribers, corner of Arch and Front
(Ueet.
James C. Sa* Samuel W. Jijher.
Philadelphia, Juneg, 1797.
, Lately Publiftied,
. In one vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar in bsards) fold
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
. ChefKut streets,
A Colledtion of Papers on the fubjeJt of
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years past.
Compiled by NOAH IVt BST'ER, jua.
Containipg letters from Duet or? Seaman, Smith,
" Bucl, Taylor, Ramfsy, Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch
ell,on corttrcrion, flee. flee.
Sept. 15.
; THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREESLEAP,
1 HEREBY give notice, that they have disposed
■ of '.he property alfigued to them for the feeuring
• the payment of tfoe note , acceptances, and en
dcife'»ents given l»y Edward for the uf<?
■ of the fait! Jainrs Greenleaf; and the holders of
• such notes, acceptances, and eintorlemcnts, arc:
. hereby uotifved that the fubfcribera will fettle
- with them ft>r the amount of ihtir re'beiSlive
claims, b<th ','RINCIPAL and' intersst, at
any time before the acth day of Odlobcr next;
after which flay, the holders not applying, will
; beexiluded, agreeably to tfcc termi of afiign
t meiit.
Applications to be made at fout'n-eaft coijner
of" Dock and Second .streets (-the iDock-ftreet
tide), between the iiciirs of eleven and onto'
clock every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
, Tho. IV. Francis,
\ J°h n M'llier, Jun.
John jijiley,
j '.icob Baiter.
Philadelphia) AuguA iS, 179?. i