of tst UttlteU and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser,
Numbzr 1508.J
SALES TjY AUCTION. *
Slated Sales
For D R r GOOD s.
f Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. 5^
Monday\ . / o;lth FronNfu ' ee t.
• -'I Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
' C South Front-street.
\ f Forenoon—John Connelly, Old Cit*
AwftUn, No. 73 fout'h Front-ftreetw
J ) Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
r v. 18.7 High-street.
WedxeCd™ \ Afternoon Peter Benfon, No. 74
I south Thlrd-ftrcet.
Tbur/day 5 F'>"™on—Edward Fox.
I Afternoon—John Connelly.
Friday ? Forenoon—William Shannon.
5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—'Peter Beiifon.
I'or SAVANNAH] "
TMI FAST SAILING SAIP
Swifc Packet, .
' Pat "*ck Gribbin, Mqfler.
• NOW lying at Smith's wharf,
above Racedtrcet. h huu-.lfo me- {
]y for pafiengers, .aid will fail on i
Saturday, 2sthii:[L i<cr ircightcr passage, apply !
to the Va.lc:- on hoard. No. 95, South l'ront- '
itreet, er of ths at Frankford. I
N. & % Frazier.
■«• _ _d»Bthj
For LONDON,
Ithe SWEDISH SKOW
Adolphz,
Cap:. Chs. IVm. Ramfe ;
to faii in all the pr«feirt month—A
few ton-; of f!oo.!i are wanted on Freight, and
will be taken on moderate terms, h speedy appli
cation is made. Apply ta
Peler Blight.
Buck of his new buildings, Dock-llrect.
Oct 10. «_
For Freight or Charter,
The D&nifh Brig
Abel Cat her in a,
-Burthen about 160 tons.
Titla v< iTcl is now ready to receive on Doard a
« r g°, aiil i friay be dispatched to any port in Eu
rope or the Mediterranean in eight days.
•Apply to the Captain «n board,or to the fubferi
b«r - JAMES YARD.
OA IQ. diet
ForTreight or Charter,
TUS GOOD BRI6
S U K E Y,
y&pur&rf Isaac Vsedenburg, Master ;
NOW lying at Clifford's whirl, and in complcat
•rder to recewe a cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain »n board, or "■
John Slyrin,
r No. 81, Arch-ftret-t.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
2000 \ift.of doublerefinedSaltpetre
600 wt. of F F Gun Powder
jco barrels of Herrings
50 bushels of Timothy Seed . t
Claret» fird quality i
/ ftd a quantity of i%rry Witie.
Sept. . dtf
Antigua Ru:n,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
Stite, and now landing from on hoard the
Brig A.ilive, William William?, Mafler,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof, '
And for Sale by
Jchutf/ollirrf worth & Co.
Septfji. drf
and the brig GAYOSO, are
alio for Sale or Charter, and j
—.. now ready to receive a cargo
on board, at Wilmington. Apply as above.
An elegant Heufe in Arch Street.
TO be kt and entered on immediately a large
and elegant houie at the Corner of Aich and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and one dining room—the largest ij 31 feet by
q6—and two are so connected by folding doors
asto maltt but ohe. Alfr»> five bed rooms, bc
fWes 5 in the (jarrcty well finifhtd for servants. j
There areftablesfcpd a coach house, with evry r
convenience for a family. Enquire at No. 19,
in North Seventh llreet, or at No. jjß, Arch t
Str*ef.
Aug. 15. iWjv.
Chocolate and Mustard
Manilfaflured as ufaal,
Ginger and Feppef ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley '
Bbiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder t:
London Porter _
Taunton and Sutton .Ale D
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by tha pipe, quarter-cask (fr gallon—suitable
ffcrexportation or home conltimption—
For Sale by
"John Haworth.
No. 93 fttoth Front ftneeti j
THE SUBSCkIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREENLEAF-J
HEREBY give notice, that they have disposed
of the psoperry afligtttd to them for the securing
ihe payment of the note*, acceptances, and en
dorsements given by Edward Fox, for the use
ofthefeid Jamts Greenleaf; and theJiolders of a
iiich notes, acceptances, and endorfeme«ts, are
Jiereby (lotifyed that the fubferibew will ftttle
\vith thfem J'or the amount of their relpedive ,
claims, both principal and interest, at
any time before thp acth day of Odlober next; 0
after which riav, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the term# of affrgfi
mcßt. "
Applicatiennto be made at fouth-eall corner '
of Doric and Secoijd flicrts (the Doclc-itreet 0
fide), between the a ours of eleven and one o'
•lock every day, Sundays excepted. _
Henry Ptaft,
Tho. llf. Francis, h
.Juhfi Miller, Jun.
'John Afhley,
Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, 18, 1797. <1
TKNEKIFFE WINE.
T.ANOINCJ at Walnut-flreet wharf, TEN
UIFfE WINE, of excellentciu-illty, in pipes acd B
l.a f pipe?, for JAUES YARD. el
Oct. I«. "* ' ' eoßt
PHILADELPHIA: MONDAY.EVEN-NG, OCTOBER 23, « 7 ",;7
The Philadelphia, Atfion, and 7 uchcrton
MAIL S T A-G E.
rHE proprietors leg leavs to inform the puttie, thnl
. tbey have eJiabljbeJ a Stage between PbiioJetph 'j,
: '.r
-aacn, IVading River flitting mil( % to\d ibe t>rt n of 'Tjjcl-
erlan, in Nexv-Jerfey, to go one: a t t«i, and are pro vU
deJ *rid> gbod tor/*/, a amfortMe
- ,y Jul driver, for. conveyance of if,, and
v gvods. The Stage will Jlari evtry .Thjrtflry, .it to
0 ciock, /f. ]\£. from Mr. Daniel Cooper s Perry, utul
lodge that night ai Joel t ßodine\, at Lotigacomifig ; And
en tn PriJay, at 6 oclul, P. M. arrive at CM E
-4 vans*s, inieeper, in Uuslerton, dijlant from tb\ city J4
miles, (frvm tie Atlantic 6, 1 and from the Eafl Groufi/rr
Phnt+ 7 -mites) inhere are good accommodation* for tra-
HeUetS) and where are commodious and fafe passage boats
to convey passengers to Capt. Willi am lVar~,
r 'fngton s bonfc, on Tjland, adjoinining the At
lant 'fc, n here m>>e good a -commutations, and a convenient
place to lathe ; the sportsman xvbo ivijbcs to regale himfelf
ivitb foivllfig andfjhing > fray at this place be highly gra-
there ieirg at alrtfofi every season of the year foul
• <**dfifh in abundance.—The Stage 0n its return t Jlarts
from the afotefaid C. Evans 1 s in ¥uc kerf cm, every T'.rrf
dajy at 6 u clocky A. M, Ire ikfaffs at John Bodine % s t at
> IVading R:ver Bridge, lodge that night at Longacoming,
and at I o\focl % P. Kf. dn l r /edritfdjy % arrive at the
1 ' aforefaid Cooper s F.rry. It is prefumcd thai no toule of
{ an equal diflauee villi he bfs expenft*oe, Mr furnifh the tra
" j vtller tvith U greater variety of amufSwent 9 as he ivill
not only haveapleafant fail to the atlant c from Tacler
ton, but have the curiejity of feeing on the road thither a
rrvmber of capi till furnaces and forges, and one flitting
■ mitt, ki ootnplefe ord-.r, and at wort ; pMihek, too, rvbo
ere eieurrs, or ft fiorsf of any of tbc-cfotefnid iron iwrks,
are foticited to eh courage a,nd support this flage (by tvh ch
they can be so ue!i accorfttnoda'ed) the continuance <f tuhiih
iwill much depend on their aid. The hrtes of p<*jfe*gers
and baggttgv are as fllmvs : FoY a pajfengrr fro>,i tbc I
aforefaid Dar. jel Cooper's Ferry to ,
14 lb. of luggage, Tffcto Dollars * for xt ay
per mile, Four Cents—lJO la. if luggage iqualU aptf
fcaver. Poflage of letter*, ne\vfpaperCJ'c. ivill-be
agreeably to law. a.
N. If. tte mail croffesfroth the Old Ferry.
THOMAS JVAR-DLE Co.
Tuclerton, Sept. 28. 03.5yiiof
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality* and cheaper thin »oy othtr Ih
ihe City—
OF rAkmus SIZE?,
Fiom ftbv 6 to 19 by 14,
„ By the finglc Box or Qutnti'.y, may be had at the
(lore of the Sufcfcritwr*, corner oi' Arch and Fro*t
ttreet. . .
James C. y Samuel W. Fifh\r. \
. g, 1 f 1 wmwftf
Will be Landed,
From o» board the (hip Aiftive, Capt.fctair,frotn
Hamburgh,
»o hales white Rufiia clean Heibp
-4 ca&s Clover Seed
s * For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer, <
North fifth ftrect, No. 34. I
Ttm* if). «
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chests of a fnperior quality—-Also,
100 do, of Hyfofi,
Imported in the Woodrop Sims', and for fair by
tfie fubferiber, corner ef Second and Pine
street.
C. llaigijf.
f'inr ;r. en«f ■
Cedar Shingles. t
fnSfcriber has a «;nonti!y of 3 fact Cedar '
L 3hingleKif-4 fup«ri6r quality, [ot falc at lj| 1
dollars p«r thousand.
- William Hdlloxoell,
No. 193 North Third-Jlrett. I
July 17. e&iit j
■ ■*- - - -
Imported in the Jhip Pigou, >
And for faleby John Morton, No. i? 6, South '
Front-street, <
Hiyfon '
Hyson Skin '
Young Hylon f
Imperial J
April 20. toff
NOTIC E.
AXL persons indebted to the eltate of 1« mn
Striker, late of TiiWcutti To\«nftlip,
Buck's County, are requested to pay off their '
refpeflive debts ; and those having any de- v
mands against fai J estate, are desired to bring in t
thdr Accounts, to c
JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN, StfJExecu- r
MALLET PkEVALT, J tors. r
Sept. zB. f;aW4w
Mrs. Grattan"
INFORMS her friends,and the public In general,
that htr house, No. 19*, Mark:t-ftreet, will con
tinue open during the Ceknefs. \
Board and Lodging in a separate rootn, t*n
dollars, in a double room, iigut dollars.
For the convenience of those gcnt'.emsn who
have" not their 'amities in town, Mrs. (SkaTTan
will receive gentlemen to dine at half a dollar
a day. 4j>.—6t
Just published,
And to be fold at the. Bcok(lores of H. P.
Rice, No. 50, Market-street 1 J. Ormrod,
\ No. 41, Chefnut-flrcet, and W. Young,
corner of Chefnut and Second-streets,
Aft accurate System of Surveying;
IK WHICH IS CONTAINED, j,
i. Decimal fractions, in a plaifl, concise,
and aafy manner.
5. The extraflion ®f the square root.
3. Plain trigonometry, redlangular and ob
lique. T
4. Arf exa<3 method to cast up the contents H
of lands. " tl
$. Field surveying. G
The whole being pelformed without the use ir
of scale and compafies, on a trtle of logarithms. 0
In which isgiven feme account of the variation o
of the needle, and the causes of its attraihon. di
By SAMUEL MOORE.
Anaufl tc taw2w
Lately Pubfithed, ti
In one vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar in boards) fold e<
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and p 1
Chefnut ftretfts,
A Colleftion of Papers on the fubjeft of c !
Billious Fevefs, pfev-akot in the United
States for a few ytlrs past. C 1
Compiled ty NO 4ji iVI'BSTER, jun.
C.jntairting lettcM from Doclors Sdantan, Saitfh,
Buel, Taylor, Ramsay, Monfoa, Reynolds, Mkch
ell,on contagion, &c.
Sept. IJ. . jt G
By John Fenno, N"- xio Chejkut Street.
Jr
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
■"PHI? Stags Carts from the GBORGC Tavern,
U ' at the t'gniti-of Se<«nJ and Artb Streets, ii'
« *. ! "" 'flphia, <Y<ir TurJ\it,)., 'Tltyji.aj, Sotvr
r- a y> ;lt o'xlock, ill.tJte n limirg ; aniwt at f>o
f. vcr the firft day, « day, M
, t":": , r >on Cr-ttW fioufe the lllird rfay, a.;d'ot;
r ' '■ ■ • "'"i 'be fourth day the*
j a late and ao.tiforrable "packet to convey theni to
3 ' Norfollc. 1
,/ A packet Icnvcs Norfolk for Northampton fetry,
J eyery v t iieldiy, Thursday and Saturday, and tile
i'tarts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
} ( Mori«»y, 'Vcdnefday and i'rija\»; puts up at Snow
, Hill the fi'ft night, at Dover the 2d tiigltt, ai»(l ;ir
. rives i« Philadelphia in the evening of the third
r djy
'bediftance oe this root , between Philadelphia
. and Norfolk, is So iniles lc/3 cJ.au on any 1 outc
l between those places
r Too much cannot be said in favor of the ro«d,
. 'whkh is taoft excellent indeed. The proprietors
I willingly engage to return the wJiole fare to any
t pairenger, who, after having performed this route,-
will fay that he ever travelled in a ftege for tire fame
, distance, so good a road in America.
A *g"ft "• dim.-eotf.
r Red Port Wine.
just arriyed, by the brig Iris, ctlpt. Khodes, frdra
Opcrto, ,
Red Port Wine in pipes, hhds. and quarter cases
6c cwt. Cork, for f&le by
Philips,.€ra"mond, & Co.
i
C ÜBT O M-HO U SK, ■
Philadelphia, Sept. isd,
THE Mercljattis who W this time pre.cr hiw
j inj: 1 'e.r ydlel. ;nd MercUandize entered and
j cleared at CWilier or Marcus MurT^j'—are here
■ hv notified, That in compliance with tWir ite
j fire, snd upon a full cOnviil o:> that Ae mtafure
1 will be mutually beneficial to litem and to the
States. The cnlleiilor of the euftomshas
made arrangements to eflablift for foine time >
blanches, of the cuflom-ho\ife at those places,
where every accommodation in his power will
hegivetito the YSerchahts. dsw
TO BE SOLD,
And immediate pojfejfion gin en,
A Convenient well nnilhed Brick Tenement,
v.-ith a cbdk house aDdothefr out hoyfes.fitu
atcd in a plealant part of the borough of Wilmlng.
t'on, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
has forty feet froct on Weft-!lreet, aud extends
through the fquarc to Pasture-street, on which is
trc&ed a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmingtoh, Aug. jo.
City Commijfiovers Office,
August 29, 1797.
IN pus fuancK of an Ordinance of th* Seled and
Cotoimon Councils, pafltd the aid day ofMay lall.
Propofalu in vrtiting Will be received hy the City
CommifEoners for one month from the ill of Sep
tember unit, for letting to rent on leases for one
year to commence the firft day of January next, tile
following-public property of the city—
The wharf and landing on Vine Street,
ATfo on Saffafral,
Mulberry, i
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Draw Srldge, with
tta Scak and Fife Holifts, Spruie, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (e*cept fa much
thereof as ihall be occupied by any buildings erect
ed for the nfe of the Colic Aofr of the Tolls, or b«
necefl'ary for the toll-gates.)
Ang. g
LOS T, "*
ON the Palfvuiik Road, between the Blue Ball
snd the city, a Fowling Piece, tvith a brass
bai rcl and silver fight ; on the plate of the ltu<t are
the letters '• Jamaica, 519" —ahd on the barrel
near tin! loiic '• Londun" and the Towjsr (lamp.
Wheeverftrill return the ;aid piece to Jeiin Tic.marJ,
at the figit of the Blue Ball on the Paflyunk Road,
or the oflrce of thisO»zette, thall rtceiVe a rewird
6f Four French Crowns,
Sept. 11. . *3t 1
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an ait of Congress of the
United States of America, passed at Phila- j
delphia, tte 48th day of May, 1796 ; laying du- .
tiss on Carriages, foTthi conveyance of (ierfofts,
which shall be kept by or sot aAy person, for his j
.or her own use, or to l«t out to hire, or for the '
I conveyance of palTengers, the several duties and '
: rates fallowing, to w it: '
For and npofi every Coach, l.f dols.
upon eVery Cfarlot, II doU. '
«pon every Poll Chariot, 12 dols.
upon every Post Chaise, l» dols.
tipon every Phaeton, with or -Without top,
9 dols. '
npßft every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having panneltvork
above, wi/h blinds, glalfes or cartakls,
9 dols. /
* upon faur wheeled Carriages, havihg fra- ,
nied pods and tops with Heel fprkigs, 6 f
dols. .
ispon four wheeled Carriages, with Wood- y
eryirirwn fpriftgsor jacks, 3 ddls.
upon Curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaifcs with tops, 3 dols'.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dgJs.
opon other tWo Wheel top carriages, 3 dols. ■*'
upon tvVo wheel carriages, with ltcel or r
iron springs, 3 doI«. »
For and upon alLothertwo wheel carrijpges, z dol*. 1
upon every four wheeled carriage, having 5
frimed posts and tops, and rcflmg up»
cm Wooden fpari, 1 dols.
The Collectors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of tlit Di{lri& of Pennsylvania, will attend E
daily, nntil the 30th day of' September next, for
the puc pose of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
Germantown; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efq. A
in the Confrty of Montgomefy ; ahd at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. in the Contrty of Bucks ;
of which all ptrfons possessed of fucU Carriages are
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers 111 Wines, and foreign dis
tilled fpirituons liquoi\ that licences will be grant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the bofi- 1
ness of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, c.r c
in less qtiantities than thirty gallons—and one li- "
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi- '
ritvons liquors in lass quantities that) 10 gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally outhorifed t» grant such licences. L
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
ftrfpedlor of the Revenue of the firft fut
vey of the Diftriit of Purnfyhraitia.
Office of Irfpeition at 7 ~i :n p
Germantow, nth Sept. 479;. j
Philadelphia, 03. 13.
i, fuhfcriSer? inform tJio'ir frun-:» 4 nd certo
„ MmnMid ccu'rtry,tha'. their ftcres are new
.. open in'tte dtf, and other*arc aai'y opevoj, and
_ w»t fifini ffcs 'pfjifent appertain-.- «f tli >■■■ :
it unorder liars rcafctf fn hot*, ti»»:r £«..» may
■ . '■\ trii, r -r.i talhc city witk perfed f«f ty. By
j ie<iif»l Ist- art- vi[s, hav*Tecnved'.irelll
Q i fuppliei of GOODS.
R&ert Smith' & Co. P W. Galhiu tit 1-1 Co.
!, y<*t»! Davis cy is.. Sitgreaves'hff Frvieh,
e Sniib, George Del fort,
j ll'i/tbiiger nr. J Smith, Thomas Rvrfon,
y A!ex Bijflatid and Co. T. h. Hardtkherg.
. Jacob Sperry an;/ Co. John Smith and Co•
d Owen & Jena. Jenes, Thomas Orr,
Ki'ppele Zantzu.ger, William Barker Co.
a Adam Zaiitx vger, Thomas A'rmat e5 Sen.
c John Fries, J. Miller, im. «nd Co.
03. 14-
Boston Glass Manufactory.
f citizens of the United States a-e hereby
,• 1 informed, that the mflnufajhire of Window
: G sfs is now commenced at the Glass Houl'e in Bof
tor. /.
It is needlefi to fay any thing of the ejee Hint
- <]ua!itj*of tile Boston "Glass, as it known
throughout the United States to be'io every fcrfeeft
1 greatly fuprrior to anv cverimportei ftoiii-Kurope.
It will he cut to any fizc commonly ufe3 ; and
be constantly had by applying to Chaklf.j £•'.
Kurriu, at the Glih House.
Orddrsfrrini tine."dif.ant States toll? alldrefledta
Mi. SitnoEL Gone, Court-Ttreet, BMtoh.
Boston, Sept 30, 1797 V*—iiw'w
Mtfrj. Tiimtßy out .1 fafon, CbnLftu , f.UJrs.
&'*•' oM Bo'l.u, HAifux, N. C. Megn. mUitt
Xtr/U : Mr. tklif Pri«, Alexandria,
Mcgfi-Yunlt and Anion, Mr.~ fiefl,,:,,
Uc-.0-Tork ; nnd Mrgrt. Hudfiin & Goodwin, Hart.
firJ, Air. Seymour, SaVOrfuob ; an rcqvejtrd to insert
the aim t,:cc a li' Cii 6 itrtcii. The accounts to he for
ivardtd to tli Editor* v
Mr 7 LA I LircTN,
1 WITH on intention tc render service, and unde
ceive those Performers, who during his abfcncs Mr.
Jaymond has thought proper to engage, thiuks it
Would be wrong in him not to inform those that
are engaged, that itis without his approbation, and
that he will not be in any way anfwerabie for Mr.
Jaymbnd's engagements.
PHILIPPE LAILSON.
Alexandria, Sept. 15, 1797. 6t.
At a Meeting'of the Board of
Property, June 6, 17^7,
Prefcnt John HalU Sea'ry.
Francis R. O. > oflkndofflcE
Dan. Brodhe*d> S; G.J
Nicholas Hettinger, )
Verjus >
Sa*uel Cunningham. J
In this cafe the proof of ftrVtce 4f notice be
ing inefficient, Itisbrdered that notice beglV.
en in one of the Philadelphia and York newfpi
pers weekly, for at leatt eight weeks to the
heirs or aflignees of Samuel Cunningham di
ceafed, to atttend the board oil the firft Monday
in November next, to Jhew caule why a patent
ftduld not iflue to Nikolai Btttingcr for the
land in question.
(A true Copy.)
JOHN HALL,
j Secretary of the Land Office.
A»g. *iaWßw.
From Marseilles.
THE CARGO
Of the Swedilh barque Guftavus Adolplius, frOtiL
Marseilles, confiftihg of the following articles,
is difchirging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
Tale by the fubferibers
P-RANDY, well flavored, of 1, 3 k 4th proof
Clarep, in hogflieads
Ditto, ih cil'ei
Frontignuc Wine, in cases if 36 bottles
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in hafltcts of &
and 1 a hot ties \
Capers
Olivei
A [mirtrds
Dry Verdigreafc
Writing Papir
Umbrellas (Silk) of tt, 30 and 3i inches
Tafleties
Long arid short white Kid Gloves for Wohico
Silk Stockings
Haftdktrchiefs, in imitation of Madrafs
Artifitial Plotters and Garlands
Ostrich Feathers
Ribbons ■
Perfumery
Scented Hair-PoWder ahd Po«at«m
in forts
Cream Tartar. ,
BENJAMIN MORGAN k
*OBERT ANDREW'S.
September 17. eotf
At the Federal Blast Furnace,
In Carver —-soY Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
SEYMOUR'S 1 Rollers.
THEIR, /inferiority conftjls in being freef«m
hole's and honey-combed flaees, which are cotii
ritonly found in rollers caji in /and,- 6r clciji
moulds. Theft patent rollers are cafl in iron
moulds, prevtoufly heated, and tvill be found to ;
be more dense, Jolid and durable than any rollers :
heretofore ttfed. Another important advantage 1
they, have over others, is, that the necks require
no turning, butiire immedattely Jit fur use, and I
from their accuracy, run with less friSibn, and
require less water to make them perform their '
■zvork. 'I bey may be had by applixation tt the '
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Gsod- '
<win, or of \Mejfrs. Thatcher and Hay ward.
Rofion, Aug. 31. Sept. 19.' §f>t- j
This Day is Publifl*ed,
BY .\icff. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the '
other Booklellers, <'
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents.
Elegant y printed on Wave paper, and Hot• '
prejfed,
By lohn Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF I
The Gonftitutions J
Of the several Spates with each other, and with <
that of the United States: V&ibitinjj in Tables, «
the prominent features of each Constitution, and j
clalliftg together their most important provisions, <
under the several heads ol* adinmiftration j with ,
Notes and Observation?.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina, I
L |L. D. and member of the Congrefj of the I
United Stat**.
Dedicated to tba People of the United States.
N. B. A fel» Copies printed oa an inferior pv
pcr, at 3-jfthsof a aai'tur.
IV.Tuary i aiv.'f
AIRMAN Leofff.R/
f.orth Sikh iirt-t, comer of North alby, No. 34,
j HAS Foil SALE,
tfourucaox Vk'ias incaf-.? *u4
; .. ' I&!) oJU
, ' V ' l ' t:c Wiwin cases
Tickienburgs
Russia Sail Cloth*
Ravens Duels
BxgLiacn
Heffiarj
Diaper and Tabk-Giufh •
Empty kagj
Catmiom Genjian Cloth
An afiortment of black coloored'Ri'obcJ*
Tina German Lacts '
About twelve tons Rufita clean Hemp
Clover Seed
Itttliw Soap, i n small boxw, s yr f am n y u s e
W.ndpw Glass rtUfr ao—M#
1 his LAV w/v-. ■
And for ("ale by THQ MAS tiOtiSOX, at the
Store Hoiife, No. 41, south S«>uid f'reet, .
EVENINGS at HOME 5
OR,THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Coii'ifling of a variety of Miscellaneous Piece* for
and aaiufcment of YOUNG PER
SONS—?ixVofymesnaiidfomcly printedand bouml
upin two v ikmc#, price Two Dollars.
! i;e variety and excellence «l tbefe pieces are
fuehy that the book needs only to be known to he;
universally efleemed one of the most valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the hands of younff
persons.
" frightful talk- to rear'the tender thought,
10 teach the yunng idea how t u ihoot.
To pour the frefh inftru&ion e'er thenund,
To brVatherV enlivening spirit.and to fix
The generous purpose in the glowing bread."
Augult 24. m\vf 4 vy
THIS D'Y IS PUBLISHED, "**-
By THOMAS DOBSON, at the Stone Hcuf«,
No. 41, south Second (Irect, \
Letters and Conversations,
Between federal Toting tidier,on improving and ia
terefting fubje&s.
Translated from the Dutch of Madme de Camhob
with alterations and improvements,
Printed onfwe paper, andneatly bound.
Price one dollar J
AM IDST the tide of modern Romances, painflng
tales of extraordinary distress.or of defperato or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladle* to
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of ml life, the profr, Vjeaufj
elegant and natural dignity and important of the FetoaU
cbaraSer is exhibited in an ioterefling point of view,
And prefenti examples of real and attainable exeel
tance.
The publi&eryras fomuch pleafedwkh the per»-
sal, that he was persuaded he should do a pleating
service to the community by fending it into circu
lation. August 24. —mw4w
To tiajk rr and Pilbtt bringing us feffels
from Foreign Ports to this City.
TTHereas sundry infringements have lately been
V V made on the laws cf this Hate for (lie prw
venting pettilentisl or icfeAions diseases, either
from ignorance or in attention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publilh the following ear
traels from the laws of aid April, 1794, 7th aai
Bth fedions:
I
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794.
Extras of an 4.7 fir fecurirg the city and fort
of Philadelphia from the intra duff ion qf ptfii
lential and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And be it further enaded, that every
matter or captain of any {hip or veftel coming from
M (vefftls adually efnployed n the coasting trade
excepted) and boufid to any port or place within
the jitrifdidioft of Pe'nnfylvania.lhail cause his ship
or vWTeI to be brought to anchor,or otherwise flay
ed in the flrei'm of the river Delaware, opposite to
the Health-Office o«i State-Island aforefaid, ami
there to remain until ha shall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of health from the Resident Phy
sician. And il, previously to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any matter or captain Aall
his Clip or velTcl t'p approach nearer than the I
laid Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
shall land, canfe or fufFcr to be landed, cr brought
on (bore, at any place or port 4^thin this Com
monwealth, or at any oth*r port or place, with the
inteat ol being conveyed ioto this Commonwealth,
any person or perfnns, or any goods, wares or mer
xhtndize, or, if after receiving such btll of health
or certificate, he fnall nr.gled or refufe to deliver
the fam' to the Health-Officer, such matter or
-tain shall forfeit a«.a py, for each and every such
offocce, thefumof five bundred holiars.
Anil tlie or matter of every ship or Vefk
fel shall fchd a fafe and commodious boat to bring
the physician 011 board, and Cialt in like manner
convey bim back to t Health-Office, after he has
concluded his official examination ; And while he
is making such examination, or in rase any fubfe
[ quent examinatidn b'y the Health Officer or Cou«
fulting Physician, agreeably to the diredions of
this *5, the metier or captain shall erpofe or cause
to beexpofed to thefearch of the Resident Phyfi.
ciap.or of she Health Officer and Cocfulting Physi
cian (as the Safe may be) oath and every part of the
ship or vessel, and shall present to his view eacfe
and every person or perfor.s on board thereof, and
and shall also true and fatisfaSory answers inako
to all such qoeftioris as the Resident Physician, See. "
at tlie tifae of examination shall ask relative to th«
health of an(- port or place fr«m which the ship or
vessel failed, or has since touched at—die number
of perlons on board when the ship or veiTtl entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that hav»
fitice been landed or taken on board, and when
and whererefpeAively—what persons on board
f they have been during the voyage, or shall, at
the time of examination, be infected with any pet.
tilential or contagious disease—and what is the pre
sent date and condition of the persons on board
wkb rrfpeA to their health or diseases. Antl if
any matter er captain shall refufe to expose as aforb
aid, to the search of any of the officers aforefaid,
„ if he (\w\\cmeealany jiek person, or in tny oth.-r muu
jrr dcceb\ the proper tfjiceif aforefaid in hit anhunt,
ncli captain or matter, for every such offence, fhalj
forfeit add pay the fusri of riva übnireb doi*.
4.AR3.
Sest. 8. And if aviy tj'rfon or persons whatfa
ever (the Resident Physician, &.c. excepted) shall
go on board any vessel, hefi.re the maffer thereof
lias received a certificate of health in the Manne*
dire&ed, every person so offending, shall pay tfi4
um of ONX HVfNDftED BOHABS.
IT being ahfotufely neceffiiry that the foregoing
fetSlions should be pHndually complied with, tiic
fubferiber, in compliance with his duty,
aft a rigcroas obfepvance of the lame, or ett'e be
under the neccffity of pitting tlie laws in force.
VY ..1. A i 1.1 N, Health Officer tf tit
, Port of Philadelphia.
- Ju'y X - <i}\>
[VoLUMp x'ri.%])z
Pis 11. ADE L P HIA ,
.MONDAY vAtmXp, Octobfr 13.
—-——
A to the recommendation of the
.Ph.'aOelphia Saptift Association, the Bap
> : :i CKirch in thjs city observed Thursday
last a d-iy of humiliation and priyer, on
aLcauh't cf t};s,prevalence of vice and im
i -ni-.'-rty, arid .the late calamitous viiitation
this anjl other places in the United
v.' alts; on which folem'n occafidn a suitable
4 -Tjrfe'was delivered in the morning by
the Rev. Dr. Rogers, from Psalm xnvif.
* 4th vtriV; ; apfl in the evening by the Rev.
M". Fiecfon, from ift Peter, sth chapter,
6th ar.d 7th vyfes.
At a "meeting of the managers of the
T> V' ire and Schuylkiil canal company,
!..Id October 19th, 1797, present, Joseph
Bftll, Wi'liaro Young, Standiih Forde,
J>'.hn Steinmetr, William Montgomery,
J Tfirurth Parker, James M'Crea.
I'll' diflivffed situation of the labouring
po;:r of the city and liberties of Philadel
phia, having been pressed by several of the
to induce them to adopt foma
plan of yn'wjig'thofe aceuftomed to labour
;-n T>ediatr- employ, so as to enable them to
i .port their families j and the situation of
vhe canal admitting (provided monies can
1;e raffed for the payment) of employ with
out inconvenience, of from three to five
hundrtV. men t
ilefoivt!, that Joseph Ball, William
Young and William Montgomery, be a
committee to wait on. the commiffior.ers ap
pointed by the governor, for distributing
the money granted by the legislature in aid
cf cbc poor, the board of health, and the
overseers of the poor, to inform them that
ftaanagfr-, a£ ilis canal company are
ready to employ any number of men who
are accustomed or disposed to labour, at
liberal wages, in prosecuting the work of
the canal ; provided money can be railjd by
loan or otl.erwife for the payment of the
labourers. That, in the opinion of the
managers, the monies will be moil likely
to be raised, <by a strong recommendation
to the citizens of Philadelphia, from the
different boards employed in distributing
relief to the ditlreffed, accompanied by in
formation, that committees of the commis
sioners, thebosrd of health, and the over
seers of the poor, in conjunftion with the
managers of the canal, will be appointed to
fee that the monies raised be faithfully ap
plied to the payment of the poor, who may
■be fimr.h'ked with work, and also by the
apnbintment of a committee from each of
their boards to solicit fubferiptions to tbe
joan.
Refolvtd, that the fa'd Joseph Ball, Wil
liam Young and William Montgomery, as
soon as the fanftion and recommendation of
the boards named in the foregoing refolu
tiiiß is obtained, proceed with such persons
■as the boards may name for the purpose, to
solicit fubferiptions to a loan for the purpose
of employing the poor, either in money or
notes, payable any time within fix months ;
that they call on the different banks arfd
ether public and private inftittAions, and
on all persons who in their opinion will bet
most likfly to contribute to the said loan,
and tfyat the said Joseph Ball, William
Young and William Montgomery be autho
rized to grant receipts for the monies and
tlotes obtained, binding the president and
managers of the Delaware and Schuylkill
canal company to repay the fame out of the
firft pi%fit3 of jhc company, and to pay an
, interest thereon at the rate of fix per cent,
per annum at the canal office, on the firft
day of January in every year, until the
principal is repaid, at the fame time pledg
ing /all the funds and profits of the canal
company for the repayment of the money.
JOHN STEINMETZ,
President pro tem.
Health-office, 20th Oft. 1797.
A committee of the managers of the De
laware and Schtiylkill canal company, hav
ing presented to the infpe&ors of the health
office, a resolution of their board, proposing
to raise by loan a sum of money for the pur
pose of furnifhing subsistence to the labori
ous poor of the city add liberties, by em
ploying them in perfecting the Delaware
and Schuylkill canal.
The infpc£tors of the health-office, after
duly considering the said resolution, feel fatis
fied that although the fame may not proper
ly come under, their notice a» a board, still,
as men who have the interest of their fellow
citizens in view, they may with propriety
recommend a plan, that will in their opinien
be generally advantageous to the city ; un
der this impression, as one of the great eb
jefts that may be calculated on, when the pro
posed canal shall be perfe&ed, will be ta fur
nifh the city and liberties with a plentiful
supply of wholesome water, for the use of
the inhabitants, which, independent of other
advantages, will be conducive to their health.
The infpeftors strongly advise a fubfen'ption
to the proposed loan, and recommend John
Gardiner, junr, ; James Whitehead, and James
Oldden, as proper persons to aid the mana
gers of the Delaware and Schuylkill com
pany to carry their resolution into operation.
. By order-os the board,
MM. MONTGOMERY,
Chairman, pro tem.
from the (Baltimore) Federal Gazetts.
rROM A CORRESPONDENT.
Messrs. PxiNTtus,
fnfclofed is a talk from the Chickafaw
Chiefs, in January last, and the answer of
Baron de Carondelet, resetting the change
\rhich was expefted in the property of the
.country of the Natchez. As this has not
before appeared in print, it may npt be un
acceptable to your readers.
TH* TALK OFT.IB C-nCKAK-vW CWWS, ,
At the Bluffs, reprcj;ntedby Ugalayacabe.
brother, 1
1 WAS, in the time of the EngliVh, a
chief ps my nation, and leader amongst the
warriors, and since then confirmed by the
badge I now wear, given me by the Spani
ards, who, when they became our friends,
prorr,;f"d us, a (ler.dy fnpport and protection,
on every emargency. We accepted the pro
feri'd boon, and preferred the protection you
held out, so the delusive preferits, of the A
iwicflns, which unhappily blinds too many
of our color. Notwithstanding they en
deavored to dvflroy you in our opinion, the
exair.pfe of those nations protected by you,
was felt by. ill, and the fate of those that had
allowed themfrlves to be deluded by the pro
digality of the Americans, could not be
coi cealed from our übfervation : We could
perceive in them the entitling of the rattle
snake, who caresses the squirrel he intends
to destroy ; and in you, the friends of red
men and their iatereft. Brother, now that
we know your worth, now that our eyes are
opened, and that in the fullnafi of our coov
fidence, we have received you in our hearts,
and have given you, to build a fort, a tra£k
of land which we had received from our fa
thers, and }iad sworn to them to preserve in
the state in which the master of breath had
given it to them, and to preserve which, we
have (he'd our blood against the French,
which we often refufed to the English, whieh
we lied given to you, overperfuaded by your
promises of keeping it, not only for the ad
vantage accruing to yourselves, but as we
also thereby secured to ourselves the poffefii
on of the reft, and a supply of our wants,
Which our own iuduftry was incapable of
How comes it, my brother,
that you wish to leave us at such a critical
time, or that our great father has given our
lands to the Americans, who are defirousof
nothing but to drive u« thence, and perhaps
kill us like wild beads. Will he who is
the cause of this look on with indifference,
and fee our blood, of which he has been so
sparing himfelf, rtied by others ? If he in
tended to give away our lands, why did he
promise to preserve,, them ? Had we not
trusted him, we/hould have joined those na
tions who have loft theirs, and likt them
have fought for our countny. Nctwithftand
ing that, we (hall do all our endeavors to
oppose their entrance into our woods and
taking poffeflion of our lands : yet we know
wc must fall ; yet the attempt is worthy of
We have fcen the treaty; it has
been read to us in our nation, and we ob
serve that our father has not only abandoned
us like the smaller animals, to the jaws of the
tiger and bear, but he en.ourages them to
d»vour us, by faying, if we commit any
faults, that he will drive us back to our dens,
am] keep us there. We know that we are
not all good, there are good and bad amortg
U3 as amongst other men. If a red man
happens to commit a crime, you will com
plain to the Americans, without knowing
t[ie guilty, and the innocent will fuffer, p'er-'
haps the ignominious pnflifhment of the lash,
as you treat your (laves. Red men are na
turally vindictive, and she people so treated
will seek revenge; it is then our ruin is com
plete : Alas, perhaps the ruin that our fa
ther brings upon us by abandoning our land,
may bring upon himfelf the loss of his own.
In our hunting parties the Americans go
before us, and make us ashamed, by their
exertions, which exceed ours ; they pene
trate farther into the country than we do,
where the silver grows ; we meet them daily
returning from their hunts, and some remain
among the red men of these countries, in
ordfcr, no doubt, to rife and take their lands
when a proper opportunity occurs. Do
you think, my brother, that we do not fee
these things : we hare a heart to feel, eyes
to fee, and ears to hear. Where are all the
promises made us by Gayofo, in the name
of eur father ? Are they forgot, because
we granted all you expected ? My nation,
who only yielded to my representation, the
land on which you now are, have they not
room to believe me an accomplice of those
who abandon them, at such a critical mo
ment ? Do you believe, my brother, that
I an» fafe from their reproaches, or that I
have not already felt them ? Yes, my bro
ther, they fee the lands which we gave, aild
which you now abandon, cannot be defend
ed by us, as our forts are the woods,, and
you have converted them into an open field.
Governor Gayofo writes us, you are a
man of valor named by our father of Orleans,
to watch over and protest us. Why do
you not comply with your inftru&ions ?
Tell me without falfehood, what we are to
do, for we are informed the Americans are
now coming to mark' our trees, and take
poffeflion of our lands. If this is true, I
cannot answer for the consequences, for our
brothers the Chocktaws are no more dispo
sed to admit them than we are : for my part,
I am a leader of my nation, and I will lay
down my life to prove to them that my
intentions were good in soliciting them in
your favor.
Answer—Tell me if I may return to my
nation, to appease the tumults of thrir m:nd3.
Shall I tell them the talk of the Americans
is a falfehood. Shall I assure our warriors,
our children and our women, that your flag
will always wave over your lands, or tell
them to prepare to die ?
The following is the answer to the above
speech, sent by express from New Or
leans.
Brother,
I have read the talk which you have ad
dressed in the name of your nation to the
commandant of the fort at the Chickafaw
Bluffs, and I make haste to answer it, to
undeceive you, for my heart is afflidled at
feeing you and your peopla in sorrow. For
upwards of five years since the great king
sent me to this country, the red men have
always been near my heart : I have been
incessantly employed in rendering them hap
py. Ugalayacabe, remembers the efforts I
< .de to reunite/all tlie nations which" dwell
between the Ohio and the Great Water,
like the hen Which afTemtks her chicken!? j
and covers thtm with her wings when fke I
perceives the birds of prey j remember what ;
I have told yourfelf, to the chiefs of the '
Chocktaws, Creeks and Cherokees ; re- '
collect all that I do to maintain the whole
of these nations in t ace ; the councils I
4iave given them so their mutual fafety.
Your own nation, the 'hickafaws, although
the last to to me, have been attentive
to my voice and faithful to their promises.
How then can it be possible that I fliould
abandon them.
Brother, and your brave Chickafaws,
open your ears, lilten, and believe. .When
I received the treaty which you spoke of
to me, Ugalayacabe, I said to the great '
k ng, Powerful monarch, who are I
jullice itfelf; yoti whd have always cfierifh- I
ed and protedted the red men, who are as (
numerous in your dominions as the stars in j
the firmament, will you abandon those who |
dwell between the Ohio and the Great Wa
ter. No, replied the great monarch, I ;
will never abandon them ; I will never
withdraw the arm that protects them. The
Chickafaws, Chocktaws and Creeks, are
free nations ; the lands which they inhabit
are theirs, and I will never fufler them to
be deprived of them againlt their will. The
line of demarcation which is to fsparate my
states from those of the Americans, neither
regards nor encroaches on the property of
the red men, it is only the boundary be
tween the Spaniards and the Americans,
who can neither buy lands from the red
men nor build forts on them, beyond the
limits that shall be marked. In fine, we
have agreed in the treaty, that the Spani
ards and Americans shall trade and supply
the ret} men with whatever they may want, I
whenever they please, indifcpminately and. 1
without troubling themselves about the li- j
mits.
Brothers, you have here the yoitie of the i
great kipg, your protector, who speaks to
you in this paper, you may shew it, pub
lish it every wWe, for 11 is true. 'Tfs I
who repeat it to you. You well know that '*
my tongue has never been double.
will restore to you thelands which you have
given us—we will take away whatever
could be injurious to ypur fafety. You will
receive next spring presents as formerly.
Mr. Panton may if he pleases set up his
(tore on the opposite fide of the river, in
wh'ch cafe I will leave some of my warri
ors to protedt him. He will fell to you,
and will purchase your merchandize. The
Americans, our friends, will deal with you
likewise, consequently you will want no
thing. You will be at peace with all. You
will have the option of felling your lands
to the Americans, or of refufing them ; and
if ever an attempt is made to drive you from
the lands which the Griat Master of the
Sun has given to your ancestors, from the
land which covers the bodies of your fa
thers, be afiured the great monarch will
eppofe it.
Ugalayacabe, and you brave warriors that
accompany him, return all home to your
villages with this talk which your messen
ger Fazar, will immediately carry you.
Shew it to the warriors, to your children,
to your wives, at the fame time telling them,
your friends the Spaniards will not leave
them, the great king will not abandon us
—we are born free, our children will close
our eyes in the fame land that gave us birth,,
and in it we will reft in peace with our fa
thers.
Signed, The Baron de Carondclet.
New Qrleans, January 26, 1797.
From the Commercial Advertiser.
It has been said that every form of gov-,
ernment requires some powerful agent or
principle to bind together and keep in a
state of adhesion the different parts of which
it is composed. In despotic governments,
this is found in force of arms ; in limited
monarchies, in force of laws ; and in repub
lics, in virtue of public spirit. Hence a re
publican government is said with propriety
to be built on opinion. Upon this depend
its life and adtivity. This opinion uncon
taminated produces pure reprefentation—
wife administration—.and cordial acquies
cence in, and pronipt obedience to the laws.
This principle, however, is not confined to
the form of government, but must extend
to the men who are to administer it. It is
of the eflence of such a government that
men in power ftiould. pofTefs the confidence,
or in other words, the good opinion of the
people. Take-away this living principle,
and the government, though right in form,
is wrong in substance. Its afts, its laws,
its adminflration, mull fail of that cordial
acquiescence, that prompt obedience, with
out which the best form of government can
not effedi its best and only true end—the
happiness of the people. The best govern
ment will become a caput mortuum —a mass
of dead matter—a weight of mere incum
brance, and cannot promifc long duration.
It is therefore eflential to the prosperity of
such a government as ours, that the people
should give their confidence to the perfous
whom they eledt into power. But there is
one truth, and but one equally efTential with
this, which i 3, that the persons eledted fliould
deserve that confidence.
A confidence inifpkeed on the part of the
c'onftituent, orabufed on the partofthc rt
prefentatjve, are equally pernicious.
Hence it follows,that the fureftway to de
ftroya good government, is to undermine
the confidence of the people where it is de
served, and to seduce it to unworthy objefts.
Yet here lies their greatest danger ; in esti
mating cfrarafters the mass of the people are
ever liable to deception and imposition.
Designing men know how to avail themselves
of this liability. In America the artifices
are already reduced into system, the partial
success of which encourages its continuance.
The man who, in his affefted zeal to serve
the people, betrays to the observing the ev
idence of his having fomethiug more at
heart than their service, knows well how to
conceal his real views, by founding aloud his
pretended cues ; noisy patriotism, intempe.
rate zeal, affefted jealousy of power, gas- ' c
conade of principle's, profeffions of pofleffing (
salutary plan? for reforming pretended abtif- i
es, affetted surmises of plots again ft the ]
public, feafting, drinking toasts, flattering,
cajoling and proftfling " to adore the peo
ple"—thtfe are. amongst the a£ts of your i
smooth furfaced, deep, defigrting dema- i
gogues of faction and intrigue. I; is a ]
truth too strongly evidenced to admit of a <
doubt, and as yet too fuccefsfully disguised 1
to be universally believed, that under the
smoke and noise of all this artifice lies con
cealed, and is agitated without being dift
in&ly heard, a fettled plan to explode the
federal government, and break in pieces the
happy connexion that subsists amongst this
great people. With what address this p'an
is managed, ltt it be seen by a man Handing
high in office, afluming the politics of this
fa6tio», being their life and their spirit, thro'
whom, and by whom they moved ; and yet
for three years carrying himfelf foas to make
the people believe he was the enemy and
oppofer of that very party. Who that saw
the masterly refutation of Genet's do&rines
and prttenfion3 could have believed the
writer to have been a friend to both, and to
have given secret comfort and countenance
to that great apcftle of disorganization ?
But so it is ; the jacobin party in America'
has aflwmed all possible forms, and executed
with scrupulous exa&nefs their afiigned
parts ; some have afted openly, others co
vertly, some at home, some abroad, some in
the cabinet, some in the town meeting; The
Vice-Prefidetit mult have been " a confiden
tial patriot,"* to have con<;£rted his part,
and yet to have a&ed in the public folong;
he mud in the execution of it 'have found
great advantage in a charafter fcrcely im
paired by general fufpicic*., with the weight
of office to baok it, and with his secrets
kept by his agenti abroad, and his colleagues
at home. In the year 1795, this fa-tion,
with their proper apparatus of jacobin foci
cties, with their corresponding committees,
hired printers, with their panders and eflay
' ifts, the whole herd of internal agitators,
their well tuned chime of patriotism,
republicanifra,French magnanimity, and A
naerican gratitude, which they chaunted
forth to the people, had nearly accomplilh
ed their favorite views of exploding into at
oms the federal government. Had not the
immortal Washington, that venerable per
sonage whom they never to slander,
flood like a firm tower againfi them, the
United States might at this moment have
been filing over the bloody scenes of Robes
pierre's anarchy. The piece confided of a '
double plot ; at home, to sow and nurture
the feeds of discord between the pe ( ople and
their government ; and abroad, to persuade
the French that the people were already at
war with their government, and that the
government was hostile to tile French re
public. 1
In profeeution of the domestic part of
the plot, every artifipe was adopted to bring
the government into contempt with the peo
ple and to give currency to the peflilential
dogmas originally broached by Genet, and
followed up by the faftion. The vilest
falfehoods were coined, the gvoflcft misre
presentation circulated. In some of the ve
nal gazettes set apart to those purposes,
even the decent appearance of truth was laid
aside, and fabrications were boldly pub'iilh
ed, which hundreds of people in the course
of a few hoifrs, might hare been convened
to falfify. But these gazettes were circu
lated gratis, as they are now through the
interior of the union, where nq other papers
were read, and where the antidote ftldom
reached. This single fa£t proves that the
jacobin party is an organized body, afting
in concert with a common fund conflituted
by private contribution, and molt probably
by foreign aid. No private fortunes are
competent to defray the cxpenfes whieh it is
ascertained they mult daily incur. The
arch fiend of misrepresentation whose ga
zette is pnblifhed at the feat of government,
took such latitude of prevarication, that the
little remaining grace left in some of the
high order of the party, sometimes recoiled
from the task of open avowal. Hence the
Vice-Prelident, in this, as in other parts' he
had a£t?d in the grand scheme, adopted pri
vate correspondence inflead of open decla
ration. He hasbeen, it seems, lately detest
ed in writing to Maryland (and molt proba
bly has done so to many other parts of the
union) recommending Bache's gazette, as
the best and molt authentic, and well wor
thy the perusal of the citizens ! Gracious
heaven ! what have the United States not
escaped in this man's failure of obtaining the
prelidcntial chair ? Shocking to reflect that
he has been proposed for a Prefidcr.t—a fa
ther to his country —who for breatJ offers
them a serpent ! Who could throw all his
influence on the fide of a gazette, edited for
the express purpose of scattering the poison
of civil discord through his country, and
circulated gratis amongst the citizens, to
court a more general perusal, and to pro
duce a more extensive effedt. How com
-1 ple'tely mult faftion have taken possession of
a mind once irradiated with the beams of
philosophy, which pijofeffes to inquire after
truth only—when it can wed itfelf to the
repository of falfhood, the Vehicle of (lander,
and the dcemon of deception. It proves
that this party has i great objedt in view, to
the acdomplifhment of wfitch no facrifice of
. principle is deemed exorbitant.
Having planted the feeds of difaffedtion to
the government in every state of the union,
but principally in the southern, every expe
dient is employed to make them radicate and
flouriih. A well Uifciplined corps of auxi
liaries is in each eredted, fraternized and fed
by the parent fadtion : they are well tutor
ed in the art 3of.profelytifm ; copiously fur
nifhed with matter drawn from \he office of
deposit in Philadelphia, to (candalize the
government, to run down the eh radter of
every man who stands high for probity, and
whose influence is likely to check the pro
gress of popular delusion, and corredt with
the antidote of truth the peftiferous efiedts
* Cee of the taut phrifes of the paaty.
of their circulating poison. T-.l it is lilt 9
embarraffir.eat to this party t,'.ixt a folfehocM
is dete&ed and exposed ; they calculate \ H
pon the newspaper being thrown aside ar.,B
forgotten, and have no hefrtation to
up the ftme tale anew. They knowthM
i »e£ts of repeatingfrcquently the fame thin I
to impress it on the mind, and have the I
problem ready solved, how many repetition I
of a given falfehood are requisite to ove I
a detection but once publilhed I
Thus the forged letters of the late Pref I
dent were re-publi(hed after every public I
tion of the evidences of theirfalfity, and ha I
gone through two editions since his publ I
disavowal.
But this is not enough for their purpoß
fes ; that great personage is not to be lefl
quiet in the decline of his age. The fileifl
efficacy of his great charafter is too formH
dable to their views. Difappoi'nted a!H
confounded at his retiring from offic,e,
they had set him forth as a man of restless
ambition and lust «f powef—Monroe is put
forward to attack him in the public
and draw him, if possible, to the degrading
level of a newspaper contest. This expedi
ent no doubt was forged out at that choice
entertainment mentioned in mylaft, where
with the French flag hung over their heads
(as a token of the country they belonged to
and an approbation of the war it was waging
againii us) the Vice President and his cho
sen band gave the fraternal embrace to Mon
roe, their faithful minister in I ranee. Most
mife'rably diftrefled iriuft the ji<.rty be for
matter to work upon when thev are obliged
to resort to a pre'ext which doc? not require
even a second thought in an intelligent mind
not distorted by faciei to appear inconsist
ent with every prinfip'' onftitutional or
political. There is nof a Jingle act of the
late President's adm: . If ration, for which he
is not equally imeYia 1 : 1 every person,
who, iike Monro*,' si v enough to chal
lenge the archives of iVtc and crest him
felf into an inquifit- nd a judge. In vain
to this party has the constitution prescribed
the channel in whi i the refponfjbility of
the President itt&ll w, and the 'mode in
which its fe .ftjo'fi't fhr.il be enforced. On the
contrary, n? b.-ij -escribed in the consti
tution, is with :hi one of the best reasons
for difregardii- ' The constitution being •
the very are at war with-; it is
treated a- u -hment scroll fit only
to be cm the " worm au
thors," ( r lype on L. Island to
contempt n. These new lights
oft!>.» world >n "conclave under French
auipipes h;iSfe ed a new species of res
. ponfibility for t t President : after he had
served 1 ime year n office, he must spend
the reft of h's lift i a jiewfpaper war, with
every pert fcribh'.er, disappointed demagogue,
or difgraeed officer, who may think proper
to abuse the freedom of the press. This,
however, is but a part of their general sys
tem to agitate, disturb, confufe and mifre
prefont. While by the well organized corps
in Congress, everyembarrafsment is mingled
into the interior of the government ; this
well contrived system is carried on ,without,
so that the laws and proceedings that may
escape them in 'legiflatioaJ may be palfiedin
the execution. At the fame time, while
ingenuity is tortured', truth prostituted
to find inflammable matter to keep this pov
ernment iji hot water ; the foreign plots a 9
auxiliary to the great ends of disorganizati
on, are sedulously pursued. The French
are invited to press the government from
without, to embarrass its foreign relations,
while they are working upon its domefticad
miniuration. The resentment of the inflam
mable republic is excited against supposed in
juries. Every aft of the Federal Govern
ment, in reference to foreign relations, and
many of mere domeflic regulation, are warp
ed and coloured into a tokeri of hatred to
their cause, or represented. as a measure hos
tile to their interests. They are invited to
make war upon our commerce ; no matter
how many millions of American property is
facrificed, provided it impair the revenue,
and bring the government to a (land. " The
wheels of government must be stopped" be
fore the machine can be destroyed. The a
lieuation of the public mind is to be matured
for effe&ing the latter, by the time the form
er (hall be accomplished by the other parts
of the system.
While the plot is maturing, a thousand
trifling pretexts are employed, to keep the
end out of fight. The people are supposed
to be yet unripe for the disclosure. No doubt
the new fcherae for future arrangement is al
ready framed and engrossed, and laying by
in the bureau of the ler*ler; and his more
cohfidential accomplices ready t» rife from
the allies of the prcfent constitution,' at the
wave of the Jacobin wand.
It is fafeft for the people to penetrate be
times the views of this fa&ion—to avail
themselves of their opportunity of fruftra
ting those views while they may, so as not
to lament when it is too late their fatal con
fidence, or criminal fupinenefs. The peo
ple may aflure themselves that whatever may
be the ends in view, they «re to be no gain
ers./ The mass of the people never were
• gainers in a Revolution from a Republican
: form of government. That which rises on
i its, ruins, probably after rivers of blqod, it
i sure to pofTefs less of popular liberty. One
' revolution n»y terminate in liberty, a fe
r cond will not. The firft is made to hringthe
people to a state of liberty, the second takes
> them at that state aad carries them forward
i to something else. In the firft the mass of
• the people lead the revolution, in the second
I it is conduced by their leaders. And what
• have these leaders to propofc to themselves
I as a compenfatioafor all this reftleis toil and
painful intrigue! They pretend to be in»
• fluenced by disinterested principles—by true
patriotism—-so did Cromwell & his party; so
did Robespierre and his adlttrents; and so
have the leaders of every fa&ion that ever
I subverted regular government in ancient or
- modern times. But as to these boasting pa
i trials, let us ask how came their breaftc, and
i their's only, inflamed with "h'3 extraordina
ry love ft* the people? Have they feca,•r are they in the habil3 of feeing and cc
1 versing more with the people at large th
\ ether citizens ?
Has nature invested them with great
sensibility or higher endowments ? If fhel:
they rauft be inanifefbed in private as w.
as in public lire—look then at their priva
lives. Are they more corre& in condui
more virtuous, less felfifli, less attached
their private interests, less palfiocate less r
vengeful than other men ! If they be res
ly laperior beings, they ought to, give 1
some fallen —their mere word is not cnougi
Impoitors 111 religion always come to m«
in the of iuperior fanftity, and civ
impostors in that of superior patriot!fnji
but the people have never believed in tl
one or the other without tating the fruits <
bitternef? and repentance. "No—belie*
them rot—their hands are not clean; the
hearts are not purs. Their ways are to
crooked to be right. Never would a tru
patriot excite a foreign Ration to make wa
upon his country, or openly juftify it whe
made. Instead of taking up his pen to jui
tify it, he would take up his sword to rept
it. Never would a true patriot use detep
tion or propagate falfliood among!}: the peo
pie for any purposes benevolent .to them
It cannot be a good tree that brings fort!
these fruits. When a great people are it
the tranquil enjoyment of civil liberty bet
ter defined arnj more amply fectired thar
jthat of any other people on earth—with a
remedy for every right, a redress for every
wrong, a cure for every grievance— and all
this under a government of their own institu
tion, equally open and acceptable to all
without diftinftign or privilege to apy
the who takes pains to alienate the af
fections of such a people from such a govern
ment and to excite them to ( a change, can
not mean to deal fairly witb them. Let
the people then beware how they give to
men their confidence or admit the poison of
their dodlrines.
However it may be mingled with things
sweet to the taste and served up in tempting
velTels obsequiously, presented, its baneful
efTedl is not less fatal. However it may
Court their taste amidst incantations to liber
ty, or in its firft draught, exhilirate the spi
rits with a gentle intoxication, its after op
eration is on the Mood where it corrupts the
ma V. and invades the feat of life. The dis
ease has already disclosed symptoms fatal in
their tendency. Those who are infefted
n:ed to change their regimen speedily, and
thole- who are found to avoid the atmofp'here
whose malignant vapors communicate the
corttagion. Let the people ill (hort with
draw their confidence where it is abused,
and fuffer it not to be diverted from where
it isjuftly due. A true American can be
long v to but one country, and that is his
°wn—-can lovfr but one government, and
that is the one the people have made
The writer of this neither pofTefiing nor
reeking any office of diftinftion, aspires only
to the character in the above sense, of
A TRUE AMERICAN.
%Ije ffiasette.
PHILADELPHIA,
MONDAY EVENING, OcTonfß ij.
- J —r~ "
COM ME R CI ALL TIMPOR TANT.
Council-Office, Whitehall,
33d June, 1797.
SIR,
The lords of his majesty's most honorable
privy council having had under (Swifidera
tion a repqrt of his majesty's advocatj attor- 1
ney and solicitor general 011 the petition of
John Montgomery and a representation of .
Simon Cock his agent, and papers aVCompa
iiying the fame, requesting the entry at the
port of Liverpool of the American (hip A- f
rnerica, Alexander Smith, mafter,from New-' \
York ; nrtwithftanding it has been objeft- c
ed to, on the grounds of the master of the f
said ship not poffefling all the qualifications "
of an American fubje£t ; lam commanded 3
by their lordships to transmit a copy of the 1
said report to you for the information of the f:
lords commiflionefs of his majesty's treafu- t
ry, and lam to fignify, that the lords of the I
council-agree in opinion with his majesty's si
advocate, attorney and solicitor general, that c
a British- fubjeft cannot so divert; himfclf of
the ehara&er of a British fubjeft by being t(
naturalized or beepming a citizen cf any k
foreign state, as to entitle him to be con- pi
fidered, in th'is country, as a fubjeft of such pi
foreign state under the laws of navigation, m
And their lordftiips are further of opinion, fil
that for many reafohs it wonld be very con- te
, trary to the interest of this country to admit vy
such a claim : yet as this ,is the firft cafe, pi
withrefpeftto the United States of Ame- tii
rica, in which a claim of this nature has di
been brought forward, their lordships do not ri<
think that it would be proper to take ad- lai
vantage of the forfeiture of the said (hip.&c.
and are even of opinion, that, under all the ka
circumstances of the present cafe, the said m;
ftiip America should, according to the re
quest of the memorialist, be permitted to E:
enter her cargo at the port of Liverpool:
I am, however, direfted by their lordships ab
to desire, that a copy of the said report may am
be transmitted to the commissioners of his dai
majesty's customs, and that they may ba in- of
formed, that after such notice a like indul- abc
gfence will not again be granted: ' dej
I am, See. ner
W. FAWICENER. one
Geo. Rose, Esq. bri
Ma
To the Lords cf his Majeflfs mojl Honorable fen
Privy Council. .** cau
* M-A Y IT FLEASE YOUR LORDSHIPS, W3S
IN obedience to your lordships' order of
the 16th inft. referring to us the petition of
John Montgomery, the representation of "'P'
Simon Cock, and papers accompanying the
fame, to yoar lordships' order annexed, aud ct
requiting us to eonfider thereof, aud report, ror
Alexander Smith, therein namiid, is "
te be cbnfiderea, according to the trufi con- er c
ftrucltion of his majefty'sorder in couscil of .
id corn the 11It May, 1797*, f or regul.tin* the
,e f rade between Grear-Britain and the terri
tories. belonging to the United States of
greater America, as a fubjea tf the United States ;
inehas of America, and- whether he is entitled to
>s well be master of a ship belonging {o the said U
juvate nited States, trading: to this country,' and
[f' to , con,L ' r on f| i c h fliip the benefit of the said
hed to order in council: We have considered the
r< :" lal ? Vipers so referred to us, and we are of
" real " °P ,nlon > that Alexander Smith, being- a na
ive us tural born fubjeft of his majeftv, and not
ough. having been admitted a citizen of the United
men States of America until the 6th day of IVfay
civil 1796, cannot be considered, with refpeft to
tin?— this country, as- a fubjea of the United
"• r 1 33 t0 entltle hini to be ,
aits of a{h,p belonging to the United States, tra- 1
eheve to this country, and to confer on such ]
their ship the benefit of the said order in council
-e too | -We apprehend this point was submitted to
J true ; the opinion of fir Philip Yorke, in 17,2, i n
e war ; the cafe of. a Scotchman, who had .been
when , made a burgher of Stockholm, and was the
0 juf-. master of a Swedifo ship, navigated with
repel • Swedrlh mariners ; and that he thought thi°
ecep- would not entitle the Scotchman to be con
,Pe°-1 fi . d «ed as a Swede in Great-Britain, his na
hem. j tive country.
forth I Ail which we humbly submit to .your
re in lord/hips' consideration.
bet - WILLIAM SCOTT, h
than JOHN SCOTT,
ltKa JOHN MITFORD. T c
very 19th June, 1797. • | j.
d all _
htu- Trenfury Chambers, June, 1797. M
1 all gentlemen, ' a A
T Having laid before the l6rds eommiffion
eaf- era of his majesty's ireafury, a letter from R,
ern- Mr Fawkemsr, inclosing, by the direftions 'Ai
can- of the lords.'of his majesty's most honorable
Let privy council, copy of a report of a report
: to of the advocate general, and the attorney
nof and fohcitor general, on the petition of John
Montgomery, and a representation of Mr.
;ngs Simon Cock, his agent, requesting the entry
ting at the port of Liverpool, of the American R:
eful "up America, notWithstanding it has been j ;
tiay objefted to,'on the grounds of the master of ' In'
ber- the said (hip not pofTefiing all the qualifica
fpi- tions of an American fubjeft : lam ]
op- commanded by their lordships to transmit
the copies thereof to you, and to direst you to
dif- govern yourselves accordingly,
' ln I am, &c.
* ed o . ge6rge rose.
Jnd Commiflloners Customs.
C / e r firAfefiioiS nf an pafled in the lat c
the feflion of the Britifti Parliament confirmatory of
th- this order, Kin the following wofdj.: "Be itenac
ed, . ■ V'?', rliat aRC ' may be lawful to iraport
into this kingdom, direflly from any of the terti
l. J. or .', eS ° f theUl "'«<l State,of America, in Brink
- Juilt (hips or reffels, owned, navigated and regif C
his tcred according to law, or in (hip, built in the tor
, n d countries belonging to the United S*>tet of Ame- u v •
* ny of or in *l'P» taken by any of
lor ""P s or veflW, of war belonging to the govern
ment or any of the inhabitants of the said United
y S, " as ' having commilTions or letter, of marque
and reprisal from the government /if the said Uni
ted . t-itet, and condemned as lawful prize in any " lcrc
T °V rt " C Admiralty of the said United States of i
which condemnation proof (hall be given to the
(atisfatfion of the Conuriflioners of His Majcfiy's M
Customs, or any four or more of them, in that old,
part of Great Britain culled England, and any three those
jCrmorrof them in that part of Great Britain call- merit
ed Sect and, ar d owned by the fuhjefls 01 the ftid and (
—. United States or any of them, W -wbtrtrf ibt m.-Scr ved -
a:.idUbrtc fan-lb, <.ftbimariners at tejjl arc fuljtli, ,j the those
• jmd Unlud Sutti, any goeds merctundize eomp
the growth, produfiion rr mariufadhire of the said
United Statfi, which are not prohibited by law to G A
be imported from foreign com tru-s, ;ind to yitcr ,
and land such good-, wares, up- r
j e on payment ol the duties, and fubjeel to the con- '
ditions and liereina'ter mentioned, anv '
law, cudom or usage to the contrary, in any wife,'
r- notwitbftanding. r
3 f 0 | Sht P
as Extraa of a Utter from Li/bon, dated Juruß
J - 2 6th, 1797.
Ie " A detachment from Admiral Jervis's B r :~
l- fleet, under the command of admiral'Nelfon 1
r- was sent on an expedition against the illand !
t- Teneh'ife, coniifting of the following s*hr
e /hips : Theseus 74, Culloden 74, Zealous ; y /r ' r
s 74, Leander 50, Sea Horse 3S, Emerald j Calcu
d 38, Terpfiichore 36, and Fox, .i4guris.— Jloop
e This morning accounts were received of the Qa
e failure of said squadron in attempting to take <wl o 'a
- the iflar.d. The admiral 101 l his arm, capt. Am/le
e Bowen of the Terpsichore killed, the Fox one c
s funk under the batteries, the captain and Tcxei
t crew drowned, about 80 in number, 250 of Dei
f men drowned in the furf I'n landing, 5 lieu- tl
r tenants, other officers and a number of men tured
killed, about 150 men landed, who took p or > t
■ possession of the town of St. Cruz and held to tbeir
1 poflxflion several hours, but no reinforce
. ment being sent from the ftiips to their as- spoke 1
, fiftance, were obliged to capitulate, the
• terms granted were that they ft6uld retire f r , irl
: with all the honours of war to. the landing unknot
• place, where the Spaniards ,afliiled in get- Q n ,
ting them on board their /hips. This expe- was „
dition was sent in eonfequence of several very for Mt
rich Spauilh fiiips having tarried there and
landed their cargoes of money chiefly. /L„„
" Admiral Jervis still continues the bloc- Netv-C
kade of Cadiz, with the fleet underhis com- others 1
mand, consisting of3o fail of,the line."
Extra?! of a letter from Alicant, July 1, '97. p
"I ! 1 trade we have nothing new : such • y
abjeft dulnefs was never experienced before ; yy,,
and this must be chiefly attributed to the ny,p -j.
dangers of navigation from the privateers,
of which we have no less than fix hovering b' an J
about this neighbourhood, carrying on their t ~
depredations against neutrals, who are ge- Calfl
nerally, not to lay ahvay*,"condemned upon j o q „,
one pietence or other ; and ail American on 11" 2
brig, loaded with Brandy at Valencia for / '
Malaga kas (we are informed) jutt received fa s
sentence of confifcation, snip and cargo, be- Pt\/r
cause the bill of lading, of which the captain 1 p
was bearer, was uot signed by I ii :felf." J
William Smith, Esq. Mi'nifter Pie- rJ Q
nipotentiary from the United States to the 'q £
Court of Por'.ugal, arrived at Lilbon the
2cth August, after a pal Tare of 27 davs 11 •
from the Capes of the Delaware." ' 7 ,T "
. 1 this port
" A Former StuJ* of D, . R u Jl r ,nd oilj- T/; j
er communicali ut: 3 omiiied thh i>ay shall appear 0 f Savcn
$■ the CITY HOSPITAL REPORT
terri- From zift to 2id Oa. in the mornir.fr.
|es of Admitted, fmce lail report, ,
3tate g ' Betsey Lewis, opposite pofcofHce' Front
cd to street.
'd U- Died since last Report,
» f.;j when admitted I ' loflr W-g ill previ
-1 , I
1 the Elizabeth White, 2.6 th ult. g day,,
ire of '
a na- Remaining lafl report 5 ,
not Admitted since j
nited _ j
May .
ft to Discharged None
'"-ted Died i , j
such Five of whom are dangerous.
r,ei '- Interred since last report,
d to From ?ity and suburbs * s
! » in Ht'fpital f :
jeen . j
1 'he Total . f
"j 1 . 1 " Stephen Girard.
this (Signed) CalTlß Lowves.
" on " John CON*NELLv.
na-
Cirr HOSPITAL REPORT,
our From 2zd to 23d of Oft. in the mom.
Admitted lince last report : ,
. James Farrell, Biddle'u alley.'
Difeharjed lince l»ft report, ]
John L' llis, admitted 4th ult. 1
Jofiah Holmes, izthinfl.
Jo'nu Scott, arth <
97. Mary M'Carty, 7 th 1
Axelina Smock, 7th
on-
om Jvemaining last Report . 53 f
m 3 Admitted since,
ble
' ,rt . • 34
ey D:fcharg.-d -
hi) Died o 5
en j Six of whom are dangerous,
of ■ Interred in City Hospital burying ground ''
:a " since last report :
ni From the city and suburbs 2
lit From the city hospital o 1 is
to , _ to
\ Total 2 t!l
Stephen Girard,
(Signed) Caljb Lownes,
John Connelly, of
t c Published by order of the board. m*
of JOHN MILLER, Jun. «
Chairman.
ELECTION. tie
f Col. Postletw aite, is chosen Sena- !n !
Ie tor for Cumberland county, and we learn,
J* by a majority of 400 votes.
d . 1 4Ll• I^ paper of the I 9 th of Au gtf ft fays, "On
,c WC a " lce^ant and heavy fall
j. oWram ; our Irish aftrouomcrs arc of opinion that L.'
there is a Uak in the moon.**
y eu
>1 I
ie AJloniJhiug Mujical Powers. &u
s Miss D Heknard, at iiv« years frc
it oIJ, plays on the f'iano Forte, to the admiration of a n<
re thole lfcilled in ffitt/lc. She executes on this inftru.
1- merit the Ba'tle of Prague, thefonatas of Pleyel ha ]
d and de Nic«lai ; different airs and the mofl app ro . to
r ved variations, besides the oivTa : anion- ot h crt "it
*■ th ° r « of O'lphigenie. 'She likewise sings i 0 a r
e eompanying the Piano-Forte. " the
' GAZETTE MARINE LIST.I '
r 1 ' tro
; PORT OF PHILADELPHIA. ™
r ARRIVED, days, ""'i
| Ship Enterprise, Norru Hamburgh 84. At
1 Mhlly, Hodge Havanna ' a -
Commerce, Simmons, St. Bartholomews Th'
Brothers, Henderfon, Amjerdam 82 to 1
Brig Gov. Brooks 9 Baxter, Petit Guave " Hrl
Betsey and Peggy, Stran, Op»rto 58 bou
: Mercury, Rockwell, Port au Prince
', Sehr. Experiment, Callcndar, tiavanna a"w
■ Arrived at the Fort—Ship Ganges, Greene, wer
j Calcutta ; Brig Jane, Vanfife, Cape Francois;
Jop L'Efpaire. L'Hi rondel, Yort-aiuprince.
Capt. Henderfon, of the ship Brothers, C
- 9 arrived here on Saturday morning from fror
Amflerdam, was bakrdedthf IJI of Augufl ly tire
one of admiral Duncan's squadron, off the tad
Texel ; and on Saturday week, off the Capes prin
of Delaware, by capt. Cochran, of the Thetis, to ]
who treated him politely ; the Thetis had cap- thei
turcd the schooner Telegraph, belonging, to this the
port, from the Havahna, a few hours previous of S
to ibeir boarding capt. Henderfon. tion
After capt. Greene failedfrom Calcutta he C
spoke the ship Swift, capt. Depeyjler and the fleet
Hip capt. Moore, going up the river, both tinu
from Aew-Tork. Afljip from Salem, name ture
unknown, had also arrived. mere
Capt. Dobel, in a ship belbnging to Boflon. but 1
was embargoed at Calcutta, after clearinr out duce
for Manilla. " /
■ The fbip Old Tom, and another ship with vve fl
passengers, from Londonderry, are arrived at that
New-Cafle. The ship Eagle, and several Strei
others vessels hi the river. on a
Neif-Tork, OS. 21.
ARRIVED, DAYS. ness
Ship Pigou, Sinclair, Liverpool Cork 58 thofi
America, Smith, Liverpool ' 66 Med
The mate and three men belonging to the
ship John and Phoibt, which fame time ago I
was taken hy a French privateer, and re-taken It
by an English frigate, and given tip to the cap- lie fp
tain, arrived here in the Pigov. nefda
Cafft Smith in the■ Ship America, arrived town
lafl evening in 66 Jays from Liverpdol, spoke from
on the 30 th Augufl, the ship Sally of and from Cong
A r . London, lat, 50, long 26, 30. aut 18 mi lit'
days, b'jund to Hamburgh. Sept. 5. spoke rily c
ship Martin, of and bound to Norfolk, out 24 when
from Falmouth. A'
Oct. I fpoke ship Belvidere, capt. Ingra- fidera
ham ,off Nantucket Shoals, hound to N. York,in Phila
60 fathom water, lat 40,09. ) to ret
Capt. Ingraham told Capt. Smith, that Jive for tt
-lays before he fell in with a ship, the captain of larcit
which informed h'm that thejhip Draper, cf depri'
his port, was taken ly the French. Sub ft
7 heJbip Diana, Capt. Frederick Bolton, comir
7 Savannah, on htfrpajfage frtrri Liverpool, to will li
)avarmah, was taken ly the Frr.ech and after THE .
S hj he>r „Msf l *<by'>V>ast,4e» ly
f* c f ta " ; , ***** Wr, tod-arrived a! Ty
rant Z! *', l ! ' , OJSL *W»>- Obtain
frcl W i a '" r ° r
Zb ™ 7 *' ? har W° n > ¥on that
coqjt. -J he above it formation is receivd bv
sr S'" ? r >r - °/ th f c,j ° on "-
,OCe - f *}h> frcrn Savannah, -who fell in with the
inp Genet, ofNorflk, in la!. 36 Ion? 75,
days out, watered-tool the cyew out and
33 them to this port.
{ We are credibly informed that the Belwdere,
7 WY n F aham '- frm Lon,l ' n W" &*>-
34 lori, has put into Rhode-I(land
I S;^ ( - Crd ; 7 '?T Vd 6a Pt'
, V'" 1 ' I. 0 " 1 L| wpoo) ; hut by*fdrvtrary
•53 r £" l ° P ut into Cove <tf Corl-,
acd (ailed from thenae Z2 d August, conse
quently nothing- new. Sept. s po k e
- . TT ng t from Ph;b delph; a , bound
i to Hamburgh, out 17 days, all well, lat.
j f, 2 ' , 4 ?' I°"Z- 42. io. Same day spoke
f the bn s p a las t . m%>
4 bound to New York, with paffengen-, out
40 days, all well, h '
Sept. 20th; spoke the fh.'p Harman from '
- nomas, bound to Brcm-en, out 20 '
days, all well lat. 43, 46, l ong . C+> ? ,
Gaober 2d, spoke the brig Lyon, of- <
'• Portland, from Boston, bound to Surinahi, ]
out 4 days, lat. 40, 12, long; 64, 33. 1
Oaober S fpok£ a brig from Norfolk, I c
lo.™ 66°, 2 f "• OTt 4 d ">-*' « <
Capt. Sinclair, on his paffagc, was board- t
ed by many English frigates, who ticqted i ?
™ Pol.tely._The ship Peggy, capt E j. ! v
hcott, of Philadelphia, from' Hamburg),, j a
went round the Black Rock for Liverpool, o
33 Q3 ty 29th of Jul y> in batfaft. |n
~ % tHis da-'/'s jMuTI.
" at. J
s n I>a P cr; b y'l>C Pipou, to ;he 19th cf
- a^!?i tCm -'T »>*««—l> following are
Me or.ly articles v;orfh attention.
!9 ai
DUBLIN, Augutt 15. I
The officer, of the reve-u.. from the Jugbefcto
~3 the lowed, are now preparing a.«d malting returns
of the amount of their /efpedive salaries and per
quintet, m confcquenre of an order from eavern
nient. What tan be the defigu in giving this order I
is yet unknown.— But as there isa law in Ent*ianJ
to tar all officers abovo jol. a year, one (hilling in
the pound, it is not ; mpoflible but our adminiftra I
t'on intends to propose a fiiniiar measure in this
kingdom. I
It 18 computed that the friaries an ! perquifit.s i
of the different offices and place, in Ireland, a- hr
mount to Boo,ocol, which at is. in the pound, will I
raise 40,00e1. a year without the lead affetlin? the
poor. 0 I
Augujl 16*
A Privy Council was held yesterday at the Caf- •
tie, when a Proclamation wa* iftued for proro<*tt* -r-,
,n a °cw Parliament to the ad Sept. next.
, I inl
v BELFAST, Augvjl n.
On Tuesday lad, 1768 guns, 141 gun barrels, I thi
, P'l"". 68 old swords and blades, 39 pistols, be
j 544 bayonets, < fwiveli, r carronade,. 2 halberts, I l
( and 1 pike ftaftt, were brought into the artillery
barrack dore; and on the following day, 106z I
guns, 3H bayonets, pikes, 3? broken swords,
3 halberts, I carronade, a swivels, 1 iron gun, a I
Run Mrrels, 33 old pistols, and 6 pound fliot, all
s from the county of Down, were si To brought in I (
f and lodged in the fame place. 1 0 f
On Wednesday fe'nnignt, a melancholy accident Th
1 :appeoed near Ardara : A number of people went lat t
. to the neighboring llrand for the purpof; of fiih
s ing fttand eels, in which they were so closely in
. tent, that they were uneipeaedfy fur»ounded .Uy
tile tule, and, seven were instantly drowned five
ps whom we hear have left families ,
I On Saiurdsjr evrninf lad about 7 o'clock, the f
troaps of the garrison of Londonderry, "were un-
der arms, for rhe purpose of wimefling puniffi- j
menf to heinflitfled upon a countryman, from the I >
of Stranorlane, for having admin f- I
tered the United Irirnmen'- oath to * soldier of the fl
Aberdeenfiiire fencihles. He was apprehended in rem
that c and the fnil- having been fully proved a- j
gainst nim, he to receive 700 lathes. I 1;
Fhe troops were dr-.wn i:p upon the Ship-Qnay, I
to Which place the culprit was marched from the f
guard houf', by a party of the military, where a- I
bout 500 having been infiiaed. he was enpoled T
round the line apparently dead ; after which, hav J lle
ing foru.Tvha' recovered, he was cani.?doff I '
a bier to 'he hofpiral—Gr at numb rs of p oplj j S '
wera afTtmbJedand witnefffd.th«inJp.-tiEve icene. j
BOSTON, O&ober 16. j Ii
Capt. Rich, arrived here on Saturday, j n 'S t '
from Li/bon, 4© days, authenticates the en
tire accounts received at Norfolk, of the at- '
tack; on Santa Cruz; and adds, that the Ch
principal part of the squadron, had come in
to Li/boti to refit, before he failed; that
their main objeft was to capture, ordeftroy j
the four Spanish 74's, lying under the forts
of Santa Cruz town; but that the expedi- I
tion failed. 0
Capt. Rieh aflures us, that the British j
fleet, under Lord St. Vincent, still contin- r
tiivues to blockade Cadiz; that fomc over
tures had been made to the Admiral by the
merchant* to remove this bar to their trade
but they were not fufficiently valuable to in- ' ANI
ducean acceptance of them.
• 'As an article of commereial consequence, Cont
we (late, on the authority of Capt. Rich, D{ ,
that American veflels, navigating the 4n<!
Streights, may, at nil times, have convoy,
on application to Admiral St. Vincent, off
Cadiz; whohad frequently declared a readi- °" e
ness to protest the American navigation in 1
tlioft- seas, from the marauding pirates of the .
Mediterranean. Ittlp
Ar
NEWBURY PORT, Oaobcr. 14.
It is ever pleaiing to us to notice the pub- A lai
lie spirit of oui; fellow-citizens.—On Wed- Putil
nefday lad the company of artillery in this JH&
town were ordered out, to make the draft 0I "
from them in compliance with the aa of
Congress, requiring 80,000 men from the 'j-*iokl
militia—when the whole company volunta- "Czna
rily offered themselves, to be in readineft Whit
whenever called for. Djapt
At a town meeting on Thursday, in con- ; ow
fideration of the diPtreffes of the poor at j
Philadelphia, a committee was appointed
to receive contributions from the charitable, j
for the relit sos those who by the awful ca- I
lareity with which that city is affliftefl, are Jul;
deprived of the necejfary means of fubftjlance.
Subfcriptioti pspcrs are lodged with she v
committee, and we hope none who are able j u s t
will los« the opportunity of lending to
rus LQRD. " a,
[
\. " .'i' ,
hen by OA. 4.
f T y~ *' Rre ' «, ly , to ? n "'wrtifemcnt published in tfcii
■upturn JHln y Frederick Troop of
bound X, v .grc l; na, at i
n tint • r e s .! ,turi!a y following. Cjnt. Nclfort
* that informod the troop th- reason oftheir bdij call?
;:d by edt o jje,hfr. and oMI-rvH, tbat« whatever mi.ht
banner ' le f ** rrmpiples, it wss the duty of cv
ith the f ry - "l«n wlien hp country was inVaded, or called
s,flu- bount'l ■'. rV, . C J l ' S ' t0 , flc £ forward and defend that
'lit and »'Kri iVi ' cral "th-r obfer.vatiom
ro ' t-iffflwSljr hear—and concluded by
r ' ** " tf'Ti of thfe tro.p as were wil.
H'f'i ■t. f "'urn out the moment thev were called on,
Ni-io- i follow him which they am.
_! I 1 ' *"' gratification of a Numerous concowfe
enpt. tain VS ' imi the n ° fa,all of their "P"
Oork, ~ From the (N. Y.) Diary.
ronfe- A cprrefpondent wishes that those per
fpoke lons whose names have been publilhecl at
wind iiHl length ae having been Concerned in pri
, lat. vattera failing under French colours Their'
P°, ke no ' tracing the report to its fourcec, and
üblm pubhihing a denial, supported by, proper
, out vouchers, is a strong proof against them.
i here are men in this city at present,
from whole^ names have been published in a long
. 20 1 or their piratical countrymen ; until
?3 they bring proof to the contrary, they
], of ought to be branded with public execration,
lata, Itisanmdifpenfableduty in any man who
* n ° ws to a certainty of filch abandoned con
folk, net oq the part of his cpuntiymen, to
40, come forward and give tbgm up to the ail
thcrity. The arrival of forte louthern eea
ard- tlemen who wire at Brest, particularly a
3ted Mr. Hooe, of Virginia, and a Mr. Milne,
El- who firft handed the Savannah paper with
-gh, a lift'of Americans engaged in privateering
1001, out o. oreft, will eftablitl), in a decided man
ner, proofs against certain men now in this
city. .
~,,,, , |)| u i m
h cf Samuel 8c Micrs Fifhcr,
■are ARE now opening,
* t their Warelioufe, No. z 7 . Dock Street afrefk
affortire.it c f Y/polrn aid o-hcr goods, fnitabic to
lind recaved b >' the late arrival; from iicg
[rns' L;n)( ' ' Tl "'' hav: a! f" f' r S "!',
t ,cr * Teneriffe '
' r . n ~ Sherry, and ( fn P ! P cs >hhds. asd quarter ca&rs*
Port Wine,, )
land 1 *ir t 1 ,
Ailorted queen s ware in crates, See.
V* ■'« h »o-»3J- diwqtawiw.
this A Wet Nurie wanted.
ins A He it itlly u^ Woman, with a young fcreafl of
a- I , f 1 1 t"" Wdl rccnmm - , >dei, may
will «? 1P tC y ln l u,n "e of 'He Printer.
r _°A 2 3.
n.otic e.
'as • Samuel Richardet, 1-efpeafully
-a- r" , ms the & entlemen . fubferibers to the
■Exchange, that on Thursday ness, the 26th
I lnft. it will beopenfor their accommodation.
He begs leave to acquaint his friends and
:ls, I the public, that the City Tavern will also
!*' , bc r f ad 7 for the reception of gentlemen
boarders.
6z An ordinary as usual at three o'clock.
Is, Oftober 21.
an T MEETING ~
in OF th« SELECT and COMMON COUNCILS
of the City of PKiLAetLPiiM, will be held on
:nt I Thursday n-xt, at eleven o'clock in the morning,
nt at the State-house.
h- j By order,
, n - wlli'a m h. tod,
Cleik of the Seiedl Council.
vc EDWARD J COALE,
l. Clerk of the Common Counril
„. n - <t ' x dt*6
he Wanted, to Hire,
/- A Large an.i convenient HOUSE, in or near
i,! entreof the city—for whjcha generout
a 3T be given; to be taken for a year, or on
a- lease tor a longer term. Inquire of th« Printer
v. oa ' I 7' eotf
II no rTcTE ~
;d THE Offices of the Department of War are for
' .-f. pr ' ?' r^ ove<i "«'ir to the Falls of the ScuvV
, n I liiU, on rhe Ridge Road.
, j September 4. dtf
The Healtb-Office
IS removed to the City-Hall, and is kept open
■, night ind day, where persons having bufinrfs may
apply. VV.«. ALLEN, Health-Officer.
Sept. 4- . dtf
e 1 Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
n I Coffee
t j Madeira and Teneriffe Wine
y j For Sale by
s James Yard,
No- —1 South Fourth-greet.
OA - d 3 w
JuJl Published, and now Selling,
; By BENJAMIN DA VIES,
. Athii No 62, HiVli-Str-'et.
; The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AND \
- j ANNUAL REG I&TERfor IIcUNITED STjiTES
FOR THE, Yt.u 1758 :
, Containing c >mplete and corre.S lids of the Execu
tive, I cgifl.itive and Judiciary^
' DEPARTMENTS of government,
And a variety of ufeful tables, nece/fary to b«
known in every State of' the Union.
Embe'UJkid 'with tiL'o handsome Engravir/njtl
. One of which is deprive of a melancholy seen*
that Occurred during the American war
O 18.
Imperted in the latelt arrivals from
Amfterrlatn and Hamburg, fandforiale by
B. & J. BO^len,
A large ajfer intent of [fine French Cambrics,
I< Rurfja uudDutch iailcloth
H'iitann:a3 Writing, poA, and pri
Ron ants ing paper
Brown Holland Dutch calf ftins
C!:et k-s and ,I!rip«s Prime madder
Ticklenhurgs Shell'd Barley
Czruhurgs looking glares
! V-'hite sheetings H<>llow"gials ware
[ D|ap£r Slates
I3i own rolls Coffee nw'lls
| Umbrellas llrafs kettles >
H.'-iajjibbons Scythes and fir=w knivs*
BlacTand white bees Tovsafforted m boxes
Best Holland-Gin in pipes
Lontion partieifiar \,adelfa Wine
J" ! T >4- ; m&tinf
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Rittp ditto Claret in cases
Just received, and'for Sale by ,
Rundh tf Leech.®
21. sawtfImportcJ in the iliip Man cucster, j
Bznjamin Shewell, Matter, I (
IYom Eonr. eaux, andiot'lale ov the fuofi. .iber,
N, .1/ SValuut Pt'cct. ' A n£v
Bn:v.-d;:;'ir; 2.-arn!y
Tvi.h n: .i lict cSret in cases Er,titled to <-j-, H
Mcdocwhw, in do. Drawback. I ,
Sas;Uvue, do. * do.
Thomas MurgatrsyJ.
' , V-HO HAS FOR SALE. j Tils l\.
Sltcrrv Wine 111 pipes and quarter caita J (hew
KotV do. Jr,l j
Pimento in bags , j
acoo buihels Liverpool-salt. I
Aug. 2+. tut&«tf. I
To be toiu at Public Vendue, j
Tn the liight-ft bidder, at '.lie honk- ot Mr.
Wiilisni Evans, the Jign of the Indian }
Queer, '.ll of Baltimore, on the 5 L ' 1
day c t O.T.c!W next, at 11 o'clo.k, A. M ;
Awn'.t ffv; u tiu'uianci acres »* land, j
the 'jrojuity of William Bell, of Philadelph'J, j
t'.'lrj o, bctveen Keilter'i-town and v\ etirriiufUr, ]
commou'ly called Little \\ inehelier, ( ii;e'nr i-1 j
pike road runs thlough a confidoraU'.e p.'.rt ot ; j
Hr.'fe beds) the traft begin.; alum? 17
ironi Kal'rnore, vithm a ftf-v hundred %aiui
of !'-id lltHter'sJtowii, and extend. to the dif- ;
tauce of absut tVenty-lhree nubs ni ri Balti-■
ir.oi'e, /iid lift*«n the mam fads of Vat.<;-l:<-o .
river, frosiWhvec to four miles therein. Wid ■
I fold i; fa its o: One hundred and fifty to. (
t;.-c* huadi ed acre. There is a lanje
t'l-f] id'-ncado'v intl wood la.-.d on mi'j ttael,
foVre of ' 1 oh' eh) y 1 iiHu ow j, with excellent
tui'.diags Iml tine gris.
AISO
A tra£c of seven hundred acres ot^
land, rulud Clover Farms, within five mi.ct of ry o
.B'ideidhurtf, tl'.eemed very good tor Orals, khai
Richard Poiiibnby, of Bladenlburgn, will lliew | u<m»
this land to any person inclined to purchale. i ' ° WI
also, . ! ,
A tra«sl of land df about three hun- ; musc
cired and thirty awes, within about two H>des g out
and a half o the.President's house in the Fede- ; j u
ral Citv. It is nearly r.U wood land, and a fi.ie f
profpedl, from which mar be Icen the
c'uv of Wafliingtcn, Rladenfburg'i, Alexandria |
and a part of George-town, and m?ny miles j
drronihe Pytornac river. Mr. Richard 1 01.liri- I
hv. of Blader.lburg, wdl also shew this land. |
' A libfral credit «ill be given for the greareft ] vff
of the purchnf" money. _ J he terms will j JTI
to"?*- linovvn on the day of Tale. ticm
May 3 w -' m I a ?: ,t
__J . I dy 0
Just Received, |" e °
Vror.i Batavia (via Providence) com
k few BoT.sof Spices, consisting of i.edit
hi utrnt'S, Cloves and Mace " ow
vcr faie by • P"' 1 ,
WILI.ISC-Zd FRANCIS, V
Pcuu flrcct. Pco
tL- f
Davis's Lazv Book Store, th r J
A T c. 11 O, IHglj-SlfCit. par
GEORGE DA V 1-8, !™ r
BEINCJ bulled iVr foms time pad in prepara-j }
tions for removing into h : s profent house, his
been undei thcnecettity of poftponingantil this day p u ,
informing the gentlemen cl the Bar generally thro .
the limited Stues, that his ff ring importation of |
law boots is now arranged and ready for ia'.e, on .
term", that he trultr-will tnutlehim to the like pre- 1
frceijcc he has experienced for tcvcral ys»r> pall.
C,italogut;»t combining the most varied colLe
t'on ever imported iiito this country, are printed
ir.d will be delivered on application. j •
• Tnr.e i;.
City Ccmmt£ioners Office, P"
June i<., 1797- l" a
IN purfaance of an ordinance fvom the iel«a |
and cdoimon eriuncils, pafled the 216 day of
Mav last, appointing the city cfrnmifliot.ers, j .
and crefcrihinp their duties, fciflion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, t
Thatthecity is divided into five dian&s,
«ach to be under tVie fuperintendance of one of ha
the city coromifTioners, » hois to be individually f ir
relponfible for the cleanliness of the fame, and tfc
are as follcfcv. m
No. 1. From tne foutn fide ot L.e- &
dar-ftreet, to the nortl fide of Spruce-street, trt
rths fupeTintendence of Nathaa Boys,
a. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
the north fide of Walnyt-flreet, under the super-
Wendence of Hugh Roberts.- 4 <
V From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide of JTigh-ftreet, uader the fuperintendtnee ot
Joseph Claypoole. .
4 From the north fide of High-street, to the
-north fide of Mulberry ftrect; under the super
* intindence of William Moulder. •
5. From the north fide of Mulherry-ftreet to
*he north fide of Vine-street, under the super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks. ' ■
The cleaning of High-street to be in common, u
A slated meeting of thi city commtlTion- *
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High- *
flreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock.
Tt.lv T4- - >. f °' m E
Stands for Draymen, Sffc. e n
Ja purfuaniv of an Ordinance front tbeSelcH and t
Common Counc h, hearing date the lid day of t
April, 1797. providing for the appointment of ,
City Comm(j]ioner3> <Se. He 3. the ifth. (
T'HE'following placrs are fijeed upon by the j
X said C#/ Cumininioners for Stands for <
Draymen and their Horfet. 1
In Vine-flreet, eatlward of Front-flreet, on
both fides. „ '
SatTafras, High, Chefinit and Walnut-fttree.s, -
taftward of Front-street, on the no. th fide only.
fouth fide from Front to
Front-flrc»t, east fide from Vine-street to
Elfiith'a alley. _ . „ r 1
Front-street, frotr opposite to Black Horse al
ley to-Hamilton's.ftore.", east fide.
Water-street, weft fide from the north end of
1 Stomoer'a or Moon-'s floret to pine-street.
Fenn-flreet from Pine to Celar-llreet, weft
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South fireets, eaitol troKt
street, south fide.
Dock-street, between-\\ alnuSfftrett and the
flip Hone croflings, east fide, opposite George
between Siffilras and Vine
fide from Chefnut to Mnl-
from Third to FourtU-ftreet, !
* or horse to stand within ten fe|pt)f
FOR /f.ICKNET COJCHES
Pine-f.reet, north fide from Fourth to fifth
' ft 'r,"h-ftreet, between Chefnut and Walnut
north fide, between Third and
mw *fun '
July 14. '
A Literary Trent. o
Jiifl Published, handfomsly printed on -Mr[ting £ing
paper, pries I dollar, or mc
A new edition of that popular aud entertaining one « oi
v.'ork, sr.titlcd from 1
THE FORESTERS, an Am-ricauT:.le ; being ujVivar
a ft-quel to the hittory of John Bull, the Clo- s in ~jc
thier—ln afcriesof letters to a friend, with thcaJ
(iition of two letters, alluding to recettipolitical tKeni J
: in America. . t hei» I
rii*following extraiSt IrtSnvthe Clavii AlUgovica, miJ (
thews the principal charaelers that ar? bein -
John Bull, the Kingdom of trgliiid '''
HU Mother, theCfuichof tigtand * _
• Hi»W<ic,-the Parfian-ibtt "*
His Sifter Peg, Ao Church of Scotland
Hw Broihcr Patrick, Ir.-land vviti»l
Ltwis'he Ktngtloat :>t, Pt»ncc
th. Old ouri
His Wife, th= National Rcjpwfent-it>6a _ _o«p
l.ord Strut, the Kingdom oT Spain ;
Nidiulas. Frog, the Dutch Repuidic
T !frani;s, the Fiench Re-public .
Tlis Farellers, the Untied States of America
Robert I.timber, Nsw-Hampfcire ► (
John Codling', MalVachufetts Copiv
Humphrey Plowlhare, ConneSacut S ey enl
V-ogcs Carrier, Rhode I (land crive
Peter Duil Frog, New-York ' frcm
Juliu-s Cstfar, New-Jerfcy _ Sc] .'
1 William Broadbrim, Fennfylvania .
Cafiirtiar, Delaware
Walter Vipewoot!, Virgi:t:a
' Hiv Grandl'on,-Georgt c \Va!hingtca TN?<
Peter Pitch, North Carolina | [
; Charles Indigo, soutk Caroliua ilso
Gcooge Tirtifty, Georgia the cit
Ethan GrucnAiod, Vermont pliei|,
Huritsr Longknife, Kentucky v
Kick Cattle, Negro Slaves ctivtc
Rats, Speculators to
Mother Carey's Chickens. JaeohtßS 0 , ;
, .JV This ptjpular and entertaining satirical hiito- h(
ry of Amaiicais attributed to the Rev. Dr Be t jj C o
knap. It hasa great shire of originality and a- Ulove ,
bounds with genuine flumour. It is continued
j down to the present tixc, and ch-t-radterifes thote g U |^
I late political whiJj 'have caufcd 16 c c ,
1 muci uacafinefs in America. JFTT
Sold by H.' and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16, i.U
South Second Sticet, and No. jo, Marke' ftnc<- • \
June 56. ' and a
' ; I been
LAW BOOKS, I;*
Lauft London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Booksellers, A
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market llreet, JP,»]
HAVE just received by the hte arrivals from
London and Dublin, their fprisg imports
tiotij confiding as a variety of th; latslj ar.d moi
approved J Booke, whick. jddei to thofi a*rci- J
dy on hacd, forms th« mod cxtculive «ollc<9u>n cv
cr offered for fa!e in this country. They theiofore Ho ..
beg leave to notiu*, that from the nature of their on \
connexions in Dooiin, they are enabled to fell lrifn
editions (a 6 they have hitherto ut tht very p rc f
to Weft prices. The following are among the latc.t nUfI
publicatiftns.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, Z r
Peake*s Cases at Nitt PHus ; Ridgeway*s Report
in the time of Lord Hardwicka ; Floyer's Procters \\ w
Pradice in the EccleiUftical Courts ; Barton's Wa
Treatise on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's PracVtce of ftre^
the Court of Kinc's in Personal AA:ons, 2 ty-f
parts eomplefe ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise wai
on Uses; modern Reports, l% vols. London cdi- j* 0U ]
tion. 4 av
H. and P. Ric* oicpeA t<» receive by the nrlt ar- on
* riv*»l from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
i Durnfordand Reports, the part of Gii-
\ berr'sl.aworf" Bvidencc by Loit, and a number of
n aew publications. r
pri
The History oi Pennfylvam4,
d By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now ' n press, and will be punlifHeH,
with all convenient expedition, by A
- aiAH PovLSnN, Jan. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet, L
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue arn
to be received, atrdat the Philadelphia Library, the
ij according to the printed until the
"e work ia ready for the fubferibera. J"
s, fta
The Partnerlhip, fla
UNDER tho firm of FttEEMAN 53* Company,, tlv
is difTolved by mutual consent. All persons nu
having any demands against the said House are de- n<
'y fired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and K e
id t i. o f e indebted to th»Houfe are desired to maj|e pay- ll^
ment to him—By whom business will in future be th
e- carried on,at his Store, No. 39,S«uth Front-street.
»i- AugyJ) 7.
to Richard and "James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
jlc. South Fifth-ftrcet. •
th /.uguft a. 4 vr&t6t
0t Lancaster, Harrijburgb CarliJ/e,
he Shtppenjburgand Sunbury
j STAGES.
cr . rriHE public are reqtlefted to take notice, that S
JL the partnsrfhip which has far lome ailue sub-
Jn fi(l«d between Mathias Slough of Lancaftcr, and
William Geer, ia hoi? diffnlved ; but, not as M,
1, Slaugh infinuatesto the public without just caul's ;
{ ' as will more fully appear by a letter on the sub
, jcift from M. Slough to W. Gcer, dated the 19th
! December last. a recital of whidi is not now deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
more eircnaiftantially infermed of thd metits cf
lnd this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
' °f the perusal ef M. Slough's letter, and then can be
(0/ at full liberty to determine whether or not W.I
Gcer is not perfectly juftifiabii; in attaching him
the fclf to any other person in the prosecution of the
for Stage »onve-yance ftor* Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other plVce.
on Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
•ets, this business, V! illiam Oeer, in conjumftion wkh
nly. Messrs. R»ily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
t to toprofecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
t to lie canpoflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
r e a l with carriages, horses, and ev«ry appurtenance to
render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
, r those wno wifli to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
n George Weed's, the film of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Motmay
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, 1-larrifbuiy,
ct> Cnrlifle and Shippcnfburg. The fare as hitherto
roßt established. \
Por the further accommodation ol the public,
1 thf a Siaee wiil start every Wednifday from the house
;or g e d f Elder, la Harrilbyrg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, Tliurld iy,
Vine an d return from theuce and arrive at Karriftnirg
every baturdiy, l'o that passengers deltined for
Mill" Lancaftcr or Philadelphia, may proceed on Kon-
Ireet, " ays ' WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaftcr, Jan. 17, 1 "97.-
e*of N 13- Thi> Line of Stages darts from tbe
house of William Ferrac, in on every
o.S. Tuesday alid Saturday morning at 6 o c.ntk. pro-
Fifth ceding to the wtftward; and trom the hrufe ol
M r. Samuel Elder in Harnfburg every Wednef
alnut day morning, on the fame evening arrives a» Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippcnfourg, and retcrns
J and from thence on every Thuri'day : performuig the
fame routiiu daily-a» in it* Wur from 1 lnl.ufel
,» ' - , . ni'l
im P hia -
AtWertifement.
On the aotli of November next in Akxasclr-.a Aatito i
(being court day), will be expo fed for fjle one
or more coveriii'* Jacks, and leveral young .- .
orief of different and fi^cs; all Qofel
from RoyiKOift (an import? 4 ja&k from Spain,
up.vv.ards of 15 hands high ) o>Ji oi imported 4< 1. ,Ie
fir.nics Troiii Malta, fuil 14 hidi.
The term9©ffaj* (or 0 In whi
tor one or more seasons ro cbycr) w ill yf
then bemitri# known: ttie payments may be
made eaj'y tOjthe purchaser, bond and (vwi^uy
being giv?n for the amount, with ii-tercft. (
At the lame time =nd p'ace, sundry Tfc: ,
. Uorf.s ayd Mires will be offered tor iale. _ Ihe cf th „ ,
latter having been to the Jacks, 4ie probabi)' United
witikloal. -j perrons
JAjVIES ANDEKSON, Manner.
oudt Vera.il, jctli ) 1 s *
September, i 7 ). Mwqi
Insurance Compan\ of rhe btate | c f' o
of Pcnnfylvania.
-pHE Offi.-tf will be kept until further notice at
L the School «onfe in Germactown. The . .
Company flill retain the room in Chefnut, above
Seventh Oreit, where a person trill attend to re- w ;jj he
ceive and give answers to applications, tvery day CAsltt
from 10 until 1 o'clock. \ Hir ,
Sent It. _+J.
I'hoinas Armat and Son,
OF PHiLADELVt'.IA, J
TN7ORM th.ir cuftouvri ii»£ >he public, th.-y Sl )
A have removed a part of the.r merchandize to
Wilmington : Also,' they have their store open in ty leco
the eity. At either place their friends can be sup- ° ®
plieil, ahd their orders carefully attended to
By the C umberland, from Hull, they have re- ul - m!
ceived a haudfome ?diriment of *1 tides, suitable
to the approadiing fcafon ; ana expeit to add to it
by other fallfhio*. ,
Should the ficinefs prevail in.the central part of ( c " '
the city, I'it branch of their tmfinef# will be re-
uxoved to Germantown. „ w .
The communication by poll is open and re-
■ thtf Uei"e (
fopE 'SOLp VEArCHEZW nfips, c
A liight W GOON almcft new, vrith a fnroc— etor» c
and a pair of harness collars) his never tioned
; been u-'—,r ; . eye DolU. •
I A Htrfe itf*aud» higli, seven years old—ind a
! new chair, with a falling t*>p and Kuriw-i-— 3 JO - Jul'
Enquur No. 33*, Market-llreet ,yr,
' Fir sale cr to' be let on ground?
rent, S\ 1
A.valuahlt Lot of Cround ;
OITUATE on the north-eiftcomer of Wal- frj?n£
D nut and Filth streets, fronting the State-
: House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front .
on Walnut Hreet, andofie liHndrtd and thtf teen | ncfj ,
' feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at |
' present two fmailitwo flory brick houses, and a . N
s number of small tenements thereon. I Tent
Also, fir Site,- j by a
Two three story Brick Houses
s With convenient stores, wharf, &e. situate on
s Watcr-flrect, between Mulberry an,d Siflafris
f streets, containing in front on Water street fjt
' tv-four feet, and'eootinuing that breadth east- rj
c ward nineiy-five fert, then widening to tike : 1
' south thirteen feet fix inches. Thtl'e houses , 9AI
ave the conveni«nce of a public alley adjoining , tion
; on the north fide, anil are a very desirable fitua- [ cout
,f tion for a merchant, flour fa<ilor,or others who four
may have pccafion for storage of goods. jms <Jrai
'' property will befold on very realonable torms | .
f< r ca.'h. For further information apply to the °fi_
printer. f
I*L Par
TO D E SOL 13, drx
Anil poMion given 'immediately, 1
\ LARGE two story brick House Jmudfon-xly Bill
t, J\ fituatediftPriiWetor., There ar« four rooms utir
ie and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in J
v the jrarret, a range of back build in gt 51 feet in j
ie i length, and a piazza of 57 feel. There is a pump
in the yard, an excellent kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house two
< {tables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two (tables for 27 Wes. Ihe beaU
tliinefs and pleafantpef. ot it# situation, and tha
ly number of ganteel and ag»eeable fahiilies in and a
near the town, reader it a desirable retrecat for a
\ A gentleman from the city. The commjdioufitef. of ,
v . the house, its central position, and the largenrfs of
L the llables,make It every way fuitabfcfcratavern.for
ct _ which it has always beeo conflderd as a caprtll _
Hand. Inquire on the pretuifes. of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princrton, Ang. a.t- t w _ bc
City of yVafhington.
L_ ' - (
ie, SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the ImfH-ovement sis the Federal City.
Amapniaceat-lwelling-bcufc ao,ooc dollars, P
that Sc cath 3q>o<?o, are jo : oo.. e
ub- I ditto 15,000 tf. cask iT.ooa 40,000 a
and I ditto is,ooo & eafti >s»ono 30,000
M. 1 ditto 10,000 & cafli tc>i>(io io,ono _
ife; I ditto 5,000 ft cash 5,000 10,000
sub- 1 ditto 5,000 3t ca i; 5,000, 10,000
19th 1 calliprizeof J* 10,000 j
em * a do. 5,000 each,are - :0,000
o k c 10 do. »,t>ixo - - 10,00 c <
*® f *0 do. 500 - - to,ooo i
00 do. 100 - - lo C n ° '
>OO da. 50 - . - i# 00
W 'l 400 do. as - - l0 ' uo ° 1
b """ ~000 do. 10 " "' 00 ° ;
If! 15,,00P do. .9 - M«,ooo:
: the 16,759 Prizes,
t in 33>* 61
uiud 50,00 c Tickets, at Eight Hollars, »oo> ootl
pub- N. B. Tofavout thofewhs may take a qu»n
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,c00 dollars wnl be
vided the I.a st dravt-n ticket, andtSe 30,000 the LAsr
ce to but om : . . _
1 form And approvedbotcs, fecuwng payment in cuher
: the mon.y or prizes in ten days alter drawing, will
ts at be received foi any number not lefsLhan .<0 tick
lorfe, ets. . t
mriay Thi»Lottery wiil afford an elegant specimen g.
kury, the private buildings to be eped in the UtJ •»
iherto \Vaftingtcrn—Two beautiful defies aie already
lelefted for the entire Ironts on two ot thepubljr
lublie, fouares; fror-, tbei'e drawing' tti.propofcd «*> ereot
house I two centre and ourcernerbtiildmgs.as foonaspof-
Sun- fible after this lottery infold, aVd to convey them,
rfday, when complete, to the fortunate adventurt-rs, .r
ifburg tire manne»defcribed in t>.e febeme tor tie o t
•d for Lottcrv. A flett deduftion of five per cent, will
K on- be made to. defray the neccff.ayexpenes of print
ing, fcc. and the l'urplus w.l be made a part of
R. the fund intended (or the National Umverfity, to
be erected within the eity of Wafhmgton.
m th . The real fecurit.osgiven for the payment of the
Ve y *rize». are held by the President and two Dired
■ rro . ora of th* Bank of Columbia and are vrducd at
V r ir ore than If the amount of the lottery.
% °j SAM'JSL BLOLOET.
a*Pa- „§. Tickets may be had at the Bank ot Col.m
retr.rns ;of James Weft & Co. Ba timote ;of Feter
n<r the Oilman. Boston ; of Jolm Hopkins. Richmond t
,iW Wl Of RiUkard W.Uj. Cooper f T.rry.
mwf
This Day Pubiifhetl,
Aadto'be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of j
"Second and Chefnut streets,
Price 3~Zth <■/ a Dollar, Escillcn
Obfer-vations on certain Documents Almall
Contained is> No. V and VI of A few J
" The Hi.lory of the United States fur Superior
t'.ie year 1796," An invo
la whiA t!ic c:i of speculation against the
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, _ Afewh
Late oiiC.vt iARir ct the Tr < asury., is TULLTi I"'y
REFUTED. - <fl
1; n!TT F. N Py HIItSt? IT.
Th's public:'.:ic.i prt(c!-t« a ccncife ftatcmcnt Ala
cf the bale mcuss pr.'CtiJ?;! by the Jacobins of the 1
Uni.ed Pt#t« to aloctfc the charader-; of ihofc India
j.,-rlons v.• ,0 >.rc coo.fi'Ki ed ho fide to their d'for- Sooty
- B-ue
jvfpoivkmc bmvcqu Mr. Hamilto'fi and Messrs. Band
Monro::, Myldei>''><:rgh and Venab'e, on tlw sub- Blue
jeet ot t're docu nenti ator. l.i'ul, and u Kries of let- An i
ters t v om ]ami'3 lieynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha- |
niiltov, viovir.g beyond the polhbiuty of a u-.ubt, 1 Abo
that the connection between him and Reynolds, Silk
v. as the result ol a darinj>; eonfpiraey on the part Two
of the latter and hi* afiociatcs to extort money.
A <iiic»unt of one third from the retail price Rise!
will be n-ade in favor oi wholeiaie yiurchaf rs lor EaQ.
cas.i. Orders ta be to I»ir Yo«so. J*va
A-;:! An,
Two ~ Ditti
LNO. 100. Roll
DiflriS of Pi-nnfyh-atiia, to wit :
j , OE 11' REVIt.MBERKD, that on the .
lL ' *"> JD tivcrty l'.ith day of July, in thetwer-
ty second year cf the independence of the United
Statis of America, [oun I'EKNo, of the saul dif
tri<ff,hnth deported in this office the title efabock,
th<? rijht-,Thereof he claims a* proprietor, in thtf p
wor.N following, to wit :
" O! fervations on ceriaia doenme:. contained T?VI
" in No. V and VI. of ".The History <>£ the Uni- JP, ~
" ed State', f.T the year 1796," in which the c'narga a ttent
" of fivcv.iauc.n, again il Alexander Hamilton, late enquii
" Secretary of thy. Treasury, is fully refuted— f ew p,
" Written by himfeli". not b
In conformity to 'he aft of the Cwgfcfs of th« wro nt
Ucited States (intituled, "An ail for thocncaur- that t]
ageir.ent of learning, by securing th- copies of of the
maps, chartsr/id books to th« authors airs |*opri- ] y rl »j
etorsof futli copies, during '|i« timeithweiw acids,
tioncd."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, To
CUri cf the Dijtria of Pmrfylvanh. lilTMll
July 27. bO T C
j The Inhabitants of the Diltri&
&!#*(>
! erf Soutliwark, 11 ' s !
( ..... u- near
1 & RC mfi/rmed tfeat-i Coachec is pratiaea, to d*
kepi At the Conftibics* oftcf, the north east
i c®iner cf Front and Almond ftrects, v/licrc the
" | of ''.'ol'e ftcli pcrfocs who desire to be re
" *9 tlx City Hospital, arc rtquelled to make
1 1 application—Also, a Hearse witlbekcptin rcadi- Jmt l
1 I ness for the removal of th« deed.
t ; JONATHAN P£NRQS£. (
a ; N.B.—The Foor» who wish to remote to the
| Tents on SehuylUitl, may He furoifhed with orden
by applying above. a
William Blackburn,
«» LOTTERY jint> BROKER'S 6FFIS& Ho.
No. 64 foutli Second-£rett. It
I- r-r- IC KETS in the Canal Lottery, No. IT, wkieh 61,
te 1 1. coramanced dr»winj{tbe »9tfc May, lOR ur»i
:s ! 3AI.E. Th»®ric« of ticket# will rife in propo--
e I tion as the dowiug p»ftic»Urly on at- fe<a
I count of the si« fir ft drawn tickets, prizes of ing
»four thousand dollars oath, on the Wfc day ol den
j dravin;*. P
' Checi Eo»k» kopt forexammation and regittcr-
!lc iog, in the Canal, J4a.», City of Waftiogtoa, No.
1, and Patcrfon Latt«ri»s- ,
Also, tickets forfalcisthaSchsylkillbridgeand
- Perkioiucn lir.id K « lotteriea, which will bojia -q
drwinff i* the fammer. IS
The.bulinefs of a Broker in all kinds of Stock, yea
:Iy Bills, Notet, Lands, &c- &c. traafcAii W"b the Jcl
ms ! utinoll attention. . bis
in June 2 ' uS * aa<
,'p Erfkine's View of the War.
:he ' L«lu
,vo JUST PUBLISHED, ha
ith By ROBERT CAMPBELL Sc Co. Ida
■aU No 40 South Second ftre;t, j ! ' 2 ,
tho f Price 1 Cents]
'1 A View of the C a lifts mid Confequcn- j £
iof ffT of the present lVar with Francs- th
sos l? v the Hunorab''; Thomas Erskihe. :
S — — '
STATE TRIALS. -
Sold b W. Younc., Bookfcller, No. s■>•, South S«-
—■ cond-ftrect,
The PenHfylvaaia State Trials, j
CONtairing the inrpeachment, trial,and acquit- ji
al ofl r ranci>Hopl-.infen, Judge oftlve Court of v
»dn-iral:y, md Jchc Nicholfon, Crmpwo'ler Gen
era!—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars. , ' f
ty. \\r. Voi'NC has for sale, a general auorrmentpt
lars. Book?. Also, .Stationary, retail and by tlw pock- (
00.. cp-e, well afiorted,and entitled to the drawback u
,000 a* pt'rft.d. Jnly 7 - j
f ' ooa For Sale, c
That «.'// Icncrcvn place, cjiltd VAxntanist s I
'■' ion (HIV,
i'ooo y^vN'Nefhaininy creek, >8 miles from Phih- _
,V,ou V/ ladelphia, 00 the Ke«r York poll road,
i'ooc. containing 74 acres and 94 perches- Upont-t
,' 1) o r, nremilcr- ar(l large two dory stone houle occu
;f>„c ! pied asatvern, anil 3 gciod one story .one kit-
I chen, a larye frame flablt with a threfhir.?
f ol ,o floor, and lope out buildmp.-alfo a well ot
p'ooo good water, and an excellent i.:e, House. On
# ' O(M , this place is a moit elegant htuation tora gentle
' man's i'eat, commanding a view ot the Kefhanv
iny to its junifion »iih the Dehrvaie, and thence
acre ft to the JeriVv ibore. ft has Me pn-v, lege
ot one'half the toil received from the bridge.
For terms
I y ? „ , 4 atawtf.
iriii be COLUMBIA HOUSt ~
LASr BoardineSchool for young Ladies,
cither A /rRS. OROOMBRID.GE with much pleaj
c, will JVI tire and refpeft, returns her fmcerc at
-5 tkk- knowleC-semcnt for the liberal
Ibe has received during fmir year 6 refidenteia
men of Philadelphia ; and afi'nres her friends arkl the
Kiiy ef public, Jo far from intending to her
ilrcady r , lloo i {jie has mi'de a fuperioramiftgement t»i"
>public (! , e mor e convenient accomrtied.-.tion ot her
S*"" e, r l scholars. —Every Woch of ukhil and po.ite
,3s , pc,f - educ.iti*ni S particmiy attended to by Mrs.
! them> Groo.nhriJgc and maftws .n their
' ""I .«•' b—»w;.,
nt. will , n xtniflj 1
part'of The fit u'at'an 'is perfetfly healtky ; and wiiie
P .n.L,, , n t-vte-Trfpvc earaen and lot
fity, to more agree-* 'by in 6
of ground al fining toe honle.
° f ™ Ju/l Fubh/hed, s'
?ucd« And to be had of Messrs. Dobfbn, Campbellß.ee
Cary, and the oth;r pricipal Bookfellei s m t .
■V city.price one do'.la'f, tw.nty-fivc cents,m boards.
CoUm- New Views of the Origin ol tue
TFeur Tribes and
m 0 : By BENJAMIN SMIiFbARTON,
mrs . J u:l£ l - '
Ro/s Iff Sirnjaa,
f Hogflieads,
Sfccdkftt Coffee in < Tierces, afcd
C Barrels.
A Imall parcel of nice cocoa, in
A few pirtulieofH Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior Tencriflee wine, old an.} in Madeira pipes
An invoice of jewellery and kofiery to be fold by
the package
A few hampers oi best cbeefe#
July 17.
The Snbfcriber has for Sale,
A large assortment as India Muflias,
coirfe and ine
India Calicoes f
Sooty Romalls
B-ue Cloths and Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchief*
An invoice of Irish Linens and irheetmgs, well
assorted
A boi of Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
Two boxes of fine Spices, eotaiaing Nuunejs,
Mace a«d Cloves
Black Pepper of firft quality
Eafi India Ginger,
Jrva Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wins
Ditto of Giu
Roll Brirollone
Mordecai Leivis.
Av„n xi. . ' awin>
Wiggins' Specific
for TUB
PREVENTION /\ND CURE OF THE
YELLOW fV.r Eft.
TT'VER since this difetfe made such ravages in tHi*
_li city and New-York, the author has turned hi*
> attention to its causes a»d cure.—The result of his
: ] enquiries has convinced him that the rcafon why so
1 few persons recover from its attacks, are fram its
not being well uoder!lood, and the consequent
* wrong method tak«ii to cure it. He is persuaded
- that the txceffive bleedigns and mercuriel reatment
r of the Faculty it highly injurious, and that-the on
■ ly minnalmode oftreatmeat is by the use of proper
* acids. Convinced of this he offers his Sfiicifit a? a
certain remedy, if ufeJ aaeordinjr to the direjfioju.
To be had in bottles, at one dollar each, of tho
inventor ff«. HiggUt, Cherry flreet, two doors a
bove Ninth street, (late martagw of Jackson and
' Co's Medicine VTarehoufe, London): by J.Lf
- Hans, No. 2*6; W. Grffti.Kcr. 177, 7■ Ptoret, K 0 "
11, South Third ftreet,T. Stiff, No. 55, New Rreer,
near Vine ltreet, and J. #a)«,Mo. 36, Race street.
\ Au s- 15 " tuthf 3t
e COUGHS, COLDS,"ASTHMAS, ami
CONSUMPTIONS.
j. Just received, by Wm. <sriffith«,Wo. 1?7,60uth
Seoond-ftreet, a frefh supply of
Genuine Bal/tm of Honey,
W \ .Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hiß
n J\ (wK« knowledge asi aßotaijift procured him
- th« appellation of the Lineaus of Britain) and i»
•onfidered in England as a iirtnin nre for the abov*
complaints; it is alio at fcignUr eftcacy in th»
S Hooping Cough,
It may aK© be ha*! retail of W. A. Stokes, No.
eh 61, South Seconi-ftrept, and T. Stiff, ss,New
)R ar.it, in bottles a« 7.5 cenu each,
sr. Vu. GumiTna having abferved the happy et
ac- fed of cafes of cures hat
of jng come within his o-WB.nowledge) and the gree#
ol demand !for it has induced him to order a larjje
fupnVy, S part of wfeith he hat j-aft received,
cr- A„ £ vji j.
30 Dollars Reward.
* ia 1 T) AN away an Jatutday lift, two indented *•--
IN. v»nte,SiS»rd Dally, a mulatto boy. about j 7
*k, years of age, a Ami li-'hc b[lilt a&'ve cati
tlie tcad and write,live feet"{etas or eight inches high,
i has a heavy countenance ; os a fnftian coatee
and trnwfers, a high f.rowccd h&t, fine {hoes Blc.
Allan HeUctis a Hick m*s, about 14 years of
age, five feet fcven or eight inches high,a thick set
elu.ol'y buiit fflicrvr, particularly about the breech;
; h«r»n,a sailor's blue jach«t lined with fwanfcin,
S dark l'rripcd vest, fuftiun trowfers, crowned
I, hat, eoairfe !hoes, &c.; eaoh ef them had fevcrnl
I ft.irts and fiveral oUier elbathes with tfeem- 1 hir
\ cy Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or 15 rf<rt-
E la.-s for each, and reasonable charge*, os delivering
!£?- ! them at No. 54, North Thinl-ftrect.
Tlie b'.aek lellovr is about, a year, from Lewis
Town, in the County at Suff-fi, Itite ol Dtla-
* ware, and his taken the boy witkluja.
July 31. _ »ttu*t.;w
h s«- To be' SOLD or RENTED,
\ LARGE 3 Story Brick Honfe» on ths
S ? J\ South lide of Filbert street, between
qwit- Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
urtoi v( .yor Gencril's Office.
® eßr The B.niding is 36 feet ft ont and 35 feet d«p»
rds ' 3 the lqt lIQ feet deep, with the privilege of a ami
iVer wid.e Alley extecdiog the whole length of
eDt f the k.t, to a thirty f»et wide Court -for Carriages
f to tnrii in. The House is not and
. mav be turned either into one, or tw» dwelhiqf
Hotjfej. It lsluitable for a large Manuftflory,
or would make a good T»v<rn. Inuiediate
jr/'t pofltffion *»tl be givtfa.
Apply to Wo. 111, Chefnut-Street.
?hih- i
, ro f-l' Mujisal ht/rtment Manufaßoty,
occu* " Nv. 167, Arch-Sfreel.
le kit- TT^RPER.Earpfithord,grand,porttble grand,
_n : r „ ri ftd vfcclard, pier table and'fquafc piano for*
11 'V r.iakir from London, return's thanks to his fnetnte
On and tlie public, soT their liberal encouragement,
■ and hopes tti*t by his '(iii'uity and atteutien to cv-
V eiy branch of his taf.ncfs.io trerit atorti!<u?nce
;lhanv 0 f t >,ei r favors. Pnrto fcrtcs madr on the
1 , RCe and 1110 ft plans, with pedait,
ivilege fwel j alV( j French harp ttop, v.'hiih he fls.tteia
J S°- himfelf will vs found on trial by unprejudiced
iudges, to f« equal it not superior to any hnport
-13. ctlj iHC i twenty pei- csnt cheaper. Any mftru
wtf. m J nt purcha-'ed ef him, if not approved of in,
twelve months, he will eichango.
N. B( All kinds of Mmical inftrumsnti
dies. Un , d) an d repaired with the (jrcate!! accuracy,.
1 plea)- d.fpatch, and on the iiKift reafonabie terms, 1,.r
:re ac- ready money only.
jjeraewt Second hand Piano Fortci taker, in excr.angt.
elite i» May v-• * 8 " m-
Lie' her sorty Dcllcih Re ward.
wnt for T> Jj N away fmrn the Aih. iber on the he
of her K. ond d.iy of this inft. July, a Mulatto .Van,
. polite named Will teowaer, about forty years of age,
y Mrs. fiv« feet seven op eig«t inohes rather
in their chunky made ; had on when h« went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, ftnpcd purple trcwfcrt
veets. "and jacket. It is probable hi- w.ll change h.s
tnii'at cbathes, as he took a- number \V.th him, Ihe
id rrvaile ftj.l fel'ow fdrmorly belonged jfo Mr. Charles
and lot" Ulnke o" this place; and it is expcileu ..e
made towa ds Jones's Keek, m the Delaware
low, aud feenring him so that I can get him a
ell.Rice. „ ab flu u receive the- above reward if taker.
I'S in fit c f ti;e county, and Twenty Dollars if ;ti
n board®. the county, aad aU roafonable charge, if bro I
tlie homt. JESSE REED,
Qwo,n Ana's Gounty, MaryUnd.
«£t July 3- ' •>