<>/ the folates, & Philadelphia
NUMBER 1391.] WEDNESDAT EVENING, FEBRUA RT 22, 1797. : [VOLUME XI.
For CHARTER,
tb* Danish »aic
FRIENDSHIP,
Lorentz Matz.cn, Master,
A strong, new vessel, with a Mediterranean Pafs,bur
then abeat 140 tons. For term# apply to
February 19—§ CRAMOND & Co.
iforFreight, for Newbury-port, Ports
mouth or Boston,
-ifr ' rHE SCHOONE*
N D U S T R y,
Francis Salter, Majlcr,
IS now ready to take in freight, at Arch-street wharf.
Apply to the master on board.
FOR SALE,
A few barrels Excellent CYDER.
February I % I[ IW
For Amsterdam,
—3- The fall-failing cedar and live oak
(hip Amiable,
D. C. Tillinghajt, Majlcr,
JUST graved and in compleat order, and is now ta
king in, and intended to fail in all this month, a great
part »f her cargo being ready to go on board, has good
accommodations for passengers. For freight or paflage
apply to the master, en board, at Blight's wharf,
JEREMIAH WARDER,
No. 11 South Third street.
Fefcruary 15 mw^fiw
For Hamburgh,
Thompfvn, Mqfltr,
r iohipjere order, and is nowloading.
A considerable pare of her cargo is engaged, has good accom
modations for passengers, and intended to fail in the course
©i this month.—For freight or paflage, apply to the Master
eu board, at Bright'* wharf, or to
JEREMIAH WARDER,
No» 12 north Third street.
February if mw&ftw
Particular Teneriffe Wine.
50 Quarter-Cases Particular Teneriffe WINE,
Of a superior (Quality,
For sale by A. MARPLE IS. JV. MORRIS,
No. 60 Dock-street.
February 8 wf&miit
Robert Smith & Co.
Ns. 58 South Front-Jireety
HAVE rOR SALE,
A Quantity of Long Nankeens,
VLSO,
An aflbrtment of India Goods,
AMONG WHICH ARE,
Bandanos ,
Pullicate?
Black and colored Ptrfians
Gurr«h«
Punjams
Baftaes,-
Coffaet
Huinhums, &c. together with
.A generkl assortment of European Goods
Suitable for tha enluing feufon.
February zo nw&f.jw
FOR SALE~BT
Philip Nicklin & Co.
iTiyloi'' 3nd } TEAS
17 Tubs QuickGlver
2 Cheu s Uandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chests Manchetler Goods, well aflorted in Cor
duroys, Thicksets, Ginghams, Mnflinets, Dimities, &c.
3 Trunks black Sewing ~4ilk
"Mgo Crates Queen's Waie, well afforfd
10 Tor,* Sheec I>ead
Nails ail'ort««l flat and (harp points
London Partitilar "> Madeira wine in pipes and hogs-
India Market J heads
40 Pipes and 10 Hoglheads T«neriffc Wioc
jo Hoglke.ids choice Port Wine
7 Tierces Snake-Root
46 Calks yellow Paint
9 Boies and 12 Bundles writing Slates
I Box Ink Stands and Note PrefTes
14 Biles Sail Canvass aflorted, No. I to 8
February 11. mw&ftf
LANDING,
AT Walnnt-ftreet wharf, from on board tha ship Peg
gy, captain tlliott, from Bourdeaux,
VIN DE GRAVE, or White ClaTet, in Hhdsand Qr.
Calks
RED CLARET, in Hhds \ '
Ditto in cases of 14 and 30 bottles each
Green and Souchong TEAS, in quarter chests
For sale by
Rundle iff Leech,
Nn. 9 Walnut.street.
February 6 mwftf
O NOTICE.
" r T~ , Kfi Sales of LANDS of the Uuited States, in the
1. North-Western Territory, heretofore advertised
in the several public papers, will commence this even
ing, at the City Tavern to be continued from day
to day, 'till the tenth of MARCH next, if not fooaer
fold.
January 4 j
Clocks-and Watches.
LESLIE and PRICE,
No. 79, Market-street, Philadelphia,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, 1 large aflbrtment «f WARRANTF. D
WAi CUES, confining of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with feoonds, of superior
workmanfiiip and elegance ; also capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd &jewell'd,. capp'd,
seconds, day of the month, and plain Silver,Watche*;
eight day & chamber Clocks.; elegant French Clocks
with warble frames ; sight day and thirty hoar, brafv
works, &c.
Decembet 12, 1796. dim
tVA NTS A PLACE.
A Woman who can be well recommeeded for honesty, fo
briely, and good temper, She wilhes to engage as cham
bermaid, or fcmpftrefs for low wages on condition file may
retain a vouug cliild with her. Enquire at No. j8 So uh
F'out street. .February 16 * <i
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & id proof,
Gin, of 4th'proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th praot", in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of >4O dozen each
GUfs Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
"Window Glass, in boxes, of different iizs»
Hazlenuts, in fccks
Whiting
, C inXhd.
Wh;»cJ,ead t
& Spasilh Browrt)
For SAle by PETER ftLJGH t*.
January 4 $
rvir. Pickering's Letter.
This Day Publiflied,
AND FOR SALE BT THE EDITOR,
Pricc three eights of a Dollar.
THE Letter o£ the Secretary of State, to Mr. Piock
ney, Minister Plenipotentiary «f the United States, to
tie French Republic. February 9.
t'rejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, &e.
This day landing from the (hip Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from Londdh,
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
t Corner of Walnut antl s>ccond-<ftreets,
niojl capital and txtcnfiiK Afforlmmt of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWEii-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c. &c.
Among which ar«,
Five kinds ]"hrec kind® Crefles
Four Berectflej jx welrt Onion
Twenty-five Beats j'Thirteen Radiih
Six Beet si i Fifteen Turn ip
L.'cve» Brocoli JFifteWl
I u enty-fi* Cabbage Savoy
Six Carrot l ? our Farfnio
Three Cauliflower Twenty-three Melon
Five Celery Twcnty-cne i-ettuce
Ten Cucumber
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Mary?old Pot Marjorum
Balm Thyme Manuel Wurtzel
Leek Kail y Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerne
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. Icc.
With a curious collection of the most eflee aed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the most extentive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Seeafman in London, and
are warranted frefh and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17- §
For Sale,
8000 dozen B&I5TOL UOITLES
. Bar IRON
RICE
TAR
■CI. RET, in and cases
SWEtT OIL 111 t»fe«
February 17 ) Apply to F. C6PPIKGER,
) N». C2| Souih r ont street.
Far Sale,
ATRAC t OF LAND,
CONcaming in Harford county, 5 miles dis
tant from Belle-Air, zy from Baltin%ore . the im
provements are, a tw#-iiory brick dwelling-houie, finilh
cd in a 'jtnteel manner, with ftope kitchen and cellar .
\ barn, and other convenient out buildings; a GRIST- f
iWILLj lately built, in a good (land for country or mer
chant work ; apple-«rchard aad other fruit-trees; 30a
crcs-of prime timothy meadow ; and nearly as much more
may be aiaae lrom tha conveniency of watering; 80 acres
of woodland, well timbered. The fields are well iaid off,
and under good fence : the situation is very ple&fanfetand
healthy. The whole of this property may be had for"
>s€ol. Two thirds iu hand, and the remainder in easy
payments, ziso\. would be taken % ali cafli. PolTeffion
might '.a* had in 60 days aftti and an indisputa
ble title-given by ROBERT BRYARLY.
February i'o
Notice.
ELEPHANT will leave town positively eir
)y in March.
Admittance—one quarter of a dollar.
Children—half price.
N. B. An ELEPHANT TOOTH weighing 54
pounds tj be fold. Enquire at the place where the Ele
phant is kept.
Feb. 13. d
A PARCEL OF FERY PINE
St. Croix Sugars and Rum,
JAMAICA SPIRITS, and
LAGUIRA HIDtS.
I'or Sale by
Feb. 7. —fjw JAMES YARD.
Pennfvlvania Population Company.
NOl' CE is hereby given, to i'uch Share-folders as
as hav# not paid their afleffments on theirlhares—to
pay the fame immediately to the Secretary of the Compa
ny, at the Company's Office, No. 53 north Fourth-street,
Philadelphia. I'hey are further informed, that in default
of paying the fame within thirty days from the 4th of Fe
bru • , instant, the fjveral forfeitures will be ftri&ly cx
a>stcd, in conformity to the 11 It ..rticle of aHociation.
By order ®f the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Secretary
Feb a. 4 §33 '
' 1
JUST ARRIVED,
By theDanifh Ihip Friendship, captain Matzen, from
Oporx», '
Red Port Wine, ,
In Pipes, Hogiheads aa«l Quarter-Calks, i
150 Boxes of Lemons,
r |For Sale by '
Philip, Cramond & Co,
February 9 §
On Saturday,
The 95th instant, at 7 o'clock in the evening,
Will be Sold by ku3ion % at the Coffee-Hoyfc,
Three adjoining LOTS of GROUND, in the townßlm '
of Moy amenling, a little to the louthward of South-street,
and adjoining a3O feet wide lane, called the Irish fa act 1
Lane, and also adjoining lands of Samuel Powell, de
ceased.
No. 1. Containing 4 acres and 83 perches
No* 2. Containing 4 acrcs and 83 parches
No. 3. Containing 4 acres and 56 perches
Plans of the Lota aie at the Cots ee-Houfa.
.Kfc. i? EDWARD lDX t Au£Pr.
Grand Concert.
Om SATURDAY ErJLNING, the n.sth Ih/ImjU,
At OELLER'I ROOM.
SIGKOR TRISOBIOI from Italyy prufejfor* of vocal trvjie, j
prppofes to gii# a cimcgrt of vocal J*d ixjirvtotntal rnufu in
>tht mojl complete man mr^.witch will tnanifejl bit tu * pub
lic t ivLojc protoftui he entreats for the Jirft lime. He is in
having engaged t lvo Iddies, his fciciars, na ndy. ,Mr:. Hendmy
J'Udlttl RouffJi'., Jin* fevered fete.' putts ; and JVTr.
Sa.Mi,:(iorf -who %t> 7 Jirtg an It ilian air 'Thro *vi 3be exofuted
a and a catch iy three vtices. The leader of the Imd lAr. |
Cciltt, ipiU perforin a coiuerto on tbe violit, and nr. Guentn Ano
ther on the pi aor forte. > Amongst feveredfertcus and ca/nie fonjrs
tifhicb Signer *Tr f; to will fag, be promises ta perform attio a
lone ; that is to fay, an imi'uiioft of three IMtfian A'uns ; and as» j
terwards tbe favourite comic Jong of ibe Cats. Alimft all tbe songs j
tvkifb will be furig t niill be printed with tbe music, and exposed >
for tbe eonvtnierrce of whoever icifbes to pur chafe then —-Tickets |
One Dollar, to be bad at Oetter s Hotel; at vtr, Bradford*f book- \
fore, 'No. 8, South Front-fireet ; at ver. Willig s muj'tcal maga- .
zine, No lS5> tnarket-fiteet ; at mr. Chalk* circulating library s j
j Thirdfired, between Arch and Racefireets ; ani at r/tr. Tr/fobio,
No. 65, North Frc-ihfreet.——
Tbe Concert wih commence at 6 o*clock.
j February 18. * 7?«
For Sale,
/
A Quantity of Excellent
Turks-lfland Salt,
Aud a few hoglheSds s
3d and 4th proof Rum. t
Enquire of
> Jehu Hollingsiuortb iff Co.-
February 17 i {
» Mahogany and Logwood.
1 A Cargo for oale on board of the Ihip Sally, captain
3 Gelfton, }uft arrived fro® HoJifUiraa.
•Ajjply la ,
y PHILIPS, CRAMOND if Co.
n February 9 J
" A convenient stable \
l Qituated i» Laurel Court—% Stalls therein tobs rent- [
O cd, with the privilege of using the Hay-Loft.
Eight yeari of time of fervicc of « YEGRQ MAN j
for sal«. He is accustomed tb houl'e work, aud capable of [
taking care of liorfes. Enquire of the Printer. j
February iz ft thtf ;
Le Breton,' {
SURGEON-DENTIST, (
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King and Royal Family of France, member Or the I
J C*ilege and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aiTbrtment of every thing nectflary 1
to be used for-the
Profervation of che Mouth and Teeth.- ■
Patent Mifcoral Teeth, and Human ic Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifide in powder ; Opiate; excellent Elixir for
sweetening the iinjnth and preserving the teeth—he j
also furniihes Bralhes 2nd foft Sponges. 1
He lives in C.nfaut-rtreet, No. 135, aieve
FoUrth-ftreet.
Novfrnber ;6. Jts
: 'A JLIouTe and Lot.
SOR HALE,
\ HOUSE -snd Lot, in a neighbourhood, and
£\. pieifant fituatioii.; it is tlie l«cond Uoufe east of sth
- ft rest, cl tliut handsome row of nevv baiidings, now near
- finiihing, situate on Arch, between Fourth and Fifth
stress • and is about treaty izpX front and feet
■ aeep : the Lot is ab%ut eighty fact deep, more or less:
•, aud <iS»ove the height of tlte firft story has a pioafant open
ing to the South, ox perhaps three hundred fes more.
Pofteflion may be had about the of April 01 May next.
Terms are, three thousand dollars to be paid on receiv
s ing the title, znd the relHue if defircd may remain for
, i'even yoars on security and interest—
-1 Or vacant lots, situate on Asch ltreet, any where be
tween Front aud Twelfth ftrects, will bo taken in pay
ment, either4ll part or for the whole amount of the pur
) chafe ; according to their value at libaral rates.
Foi furcher particulars, please to apply at the Counting
House of the Subscriber, Arch-street, No. 146, any
norning, from 7 to 8 o'clock.
WILLIAM SANSOM.
February it
For Sale by the Subscribers, t
Georgia Cotton
Carolina fndigo
Fyaland Teneriffe Wines
Havens Duck j
Gurrahs j
CoQahs
- India Bandana Handkerchiefs t
Oue Trunk containing Sewing Silks and Silk
and Cotton Handkerchiefs
N. y J.FKAZIER,
No. 95, S. Front-street.
February »i.——4w3taw i
rhis Day is Publilhed,
By BIOREN & MADAN, at their Printi»g Office,
No. 77, Dock-street, and fold by the principal
Booksellers in this City.
The American Annual Register ;
Or hiltarkal Me.noirs of the United States, for the 1
' Year 1796. J
No. 167. v
Diftrifl of Ptnnfylvania, to mil} {
Be it remen.bered, that on the 19th day of January
in the Twenty-tirlt year of the Independence of the
United States of America, Bioren & Madan of the said c
diflriiff have depofned in this Oi&ce the title of a Book 0
the Right whereof they claim 9s proprietors in the
words following t« wit:
" The American Annual Register, or Historical
" Memoirs of the United States, for the year 1796.
In conformity to the a& of the Congrei's of the
United States entituled " All a<£l for the encourage
' ment of learning by securing the copies of Maps,
Charts and Books, to the authors aiiiT pfopffti'ors oT" g
filch copies during the .time therein mentioned."
Samuel Caj.bwm i, p
Clerk Pennsylvania D '.riA. a
Jantiarv 2.3. iaw4 'I
LOST, L 1
BETWEEN the fubferihers' house and' the Bank of a.
th« United States, Johh Guest& Co's NOTE,
dated 17th June, payable to Thomas and John Clif- a '
ford, or order, 60 days afterdate, and endorl'ed by them
for 640 Dollars. Whoiver has found the fame, and
will bring it to the fubtcribere, will b» thankfully re- £
warded. Faynien. being flopped at the Banks, it can t
be of no use to any person.
JOHN GUEST & Co. t
No. jo, South Second-street. f
All persons are forwarned against purchafmg the \
said Not«. Ftbiuarjr 18. $
I '
Lifljon Wine.
s®.Pipes of Lilbon Wine, lir.ding at Messrs. Sum-
& Brown's wharf, between Aixli and Race ftrects,
' from ihip Neprune, Can. Jeffries, from Lilbon. m
" Pipes, Hoglheads and Guarusr Calk;, for file by
PETER BLIGHT.
~ Janbarv 18. §T
j Bourdeaux Brandy, in Pipes, ,
OLD Claret, in.calks
Ditto in cases, ot a* excellent quality
t Lisbon Wine in pipes #
F- urth Uproot Holland Gin >
New-England Rum in hog(hcausand tierce*
! Raiftns m» kegk
' | Best Boston Beef and Pork
l Halifax Salmon in bairels
r I Rufiia Sail Du.k.
* ; Ravens Duck
■ t A few Feather Beds
>' One 11 1-2 inch Cable } , , . ,
, 0<K 9 do. ' dO . J fathom* long each
Spermaceti Candles
Mou d and dipt Tallow ditto
A tew barrelsTanr.ers Oil, and
A small invoice of India Goods,
For Sale by
JOSEPH ANTHONY & C®
ALSO,
Just received from Marseille:, a small invoice of Silks, SfUfr
Stockings, an aifortmcnt of Perfumery, and a few cases «f
the best Olive Oil.
February 15
Mrs. G RAT TA N
Refpe&fwlly informs her friends, and the public iii
general, that on Tuesday the i oth day of
she proposes opeiriijg, at No. 39, North Sixth
-1 ftrtet,
A Linen and Muslin Warehouse,
Book Muslins, fro.u 6/3 to 17/11 per yard
Jaconet ditto, fr®m 3to ()J% per yard
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to tofio per 7aid
Fine CoiTaes
Tambour'd Book Muslins, from 13/9 to 11/ per yard
" India Muslin, from 11/3 to ij/ per yard
Sheeting Muslin
' Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, frem 4/3 to 6/ per h lkf,
1 Cook muslin Handkerchiefs from 5/3 to ig/6 per hukfj
Muslin color'd and border'd Handkerchiefs
_ Dacca Handkerchiefs
ramb*ur'd Cravats from 10/"8 to lifll
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/3 to 16A per yard
- Table Cloths
? Huckabuck Towelling
Women's Cotton Hose, from to ij/"per pair
/ Dimity from to 6/ii
Men's Silk Hole
(l ambour'd muslin Handkerchiefs from 1 ifll t« 1 lf%
Irilh linens for Gentleir en's Shirts, lioin r/5 to -yfj
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready nxids
Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruflfed or plain, Cravats,,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, dcc. See.
Houlhold Linen, &c. &c.
A plain shirt, made and marked, 3 J-l doUals.—~- -
A plain thirt, made and marfe'd, 5 dollars.
A full rulHcd kit to 6 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and uiarked, 5 1-4 dollars.
J A :m!1 ruffled ditto 7 (tellers.
A plain (hirt, made and mark"d, 6 dollars.
. A full ruffled ditto 7 1-2.
! A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 1-2 dollars.
t A very f»ne ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Linen included.
" January 13. K
This Day is Publi/hed, •
By Meffu. W. Cobbett & John Ormrod,
BURKE's LETTERS
Ob the prjpofals of making PEACE with the
REGICIDE DIRECTORY
OF
FRANCE.
Feb. si. s3t
r ~
WANTED, T •
Pcnnfylvania Bank Shares,
- 7
For which Gajh, or approved Notes at 60 days, will •
be given, at the option of the Seller.
February so —J Apply at this office.
50 boxes Spermaceti Candles,
A few dozen ot English Porter in small calks,
x bale of Cloak Camblets, Hair-bines, Crapes, Poplins,
Sattinet, Lasting, &c. &c.
A few small packages of Calcutta and Madrafs Goods,
t tonfilling of Pungim Cloths, Gurrahs, Humrmais,
Guzenalis, Tickerys, Baftas, Coflaes, Barhar, Ban
danna and Pullicat Handkerchiefs, Choppa Romais,
Putpa Chinu and Taffaties;
1 bag of black Pepper, and 1 box of white Sugar ;
For sale, by
JOSHUA GILPIN,
j Ne. 149, South Front-street.
February »o. -t
President's Bali.
. T ADIES o»d Oentlemcn are reqnefted t» hand their
A—l tickets of admifiion to the Doorkeeper, without
which they cannot be sdmittsd. They are also roquefted
to direct their Coachmen to set down with their Hoifes'
r heads towards the Schuylkill, and to take up with their
heads tewards the Delaware.
If any Subscribers through mistake fiiould not have re
ceived their tickets, they are requellsd to kave notice th«re
; of in writing, at Mr. CEllers s Hotel.
February n j t
■
1 Sales of Depreciation Land.
TO THE PUBLIC,
WHF.RE AS a number of tra£ls of land commonly called
Qcpicc.dtioa l^idvWni£ii^in3V^morclaiid, now in All*.
gany county, were fold at Grccnlburg, in the mdBIII bPATI-
gust last, by the commiirioners of Weftmoreland, for
pretended to be due for Allegany county, in the year 1789 :
and whereas the said taxes were not legally afTe£fed, nor
the said commiilioners authorieed to aft. nor due notice of
the intended sale given,the commifliouers for a pre ended tatc
uot exceeding in the whole 231 dollars, having fold .53 33$
acres of valuable land.
( The proprietors take this method of cautioning all person*
against making payments to the said commiirioners for any
{ purchases made of them, or of ,n»tirchafing any part of .the
said lands from any o.he 1 person, as they mean todefead their
properly lo illegally fold, as well againd the
aforelaid, as all other perions pretending to .hold jjnder
1 them.
For the information of their fcllow-citizejat tfiey pro•
pole shortly to g»V« a statement of the combination formed
• for the purchsfc of this property, aud the of the
: persons conccrned therein.
February rod 4}CO AG# ESS of rrs UNITED STATES. P
. HOU-SE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Thursday, January 19. w
ThcHoirfe being in a cercmittee of the whole on ''
the subject of further revenue, Mr. Dent in the
chair*
A call for the question was made. n
Mr. Gallatin said, before the qnetli«n was taken, si
hawonld state, that the amendment proposed would si
be a total defeat of the resolution for laying a dire£t t
tax. The gentlemen from Colme&icut, he said, t
bad been accultomed, iu laying their Hate taxes, to v
valuations of property made'betwixt different v
tpwns, and th«y supposed no delay wduld be occa c
fioned by the propolition before them ; but it wufl (
be rerolleited that in apportioning the tax amongst
the dates, there was no occafion.for fcch a t
valuation as they canteciplated. It was proposed 1
by the secretary of the treasury to "be done by means 1
of commissioners instead of the iegiflature, and he 1
believed that would be the belt way. If the refolu t
tion was, therefore, agreed to, the mizht be I
proceeded with j but if the amendment was passed, 1
and a new census was to b e taken, they must wait 1
at least two years, and 110 valuation could take 1
plaee until a Congress was eledted according to the
new census, which could not be done till the time
ofthe Congress jutt chosen expired. They tfiight,
indeed, have an enumeration taken and a tax afleff
ed, on the 4th of March 1799, which would be the
day on which the powers of the new Congress would
-commence ; but no ta:; could take place in the
mean time.
There was not the Jeaft doubt, therefore, tbat
if the amendment'paffed, it would amount to a de
feat of a diredt tax for two yeats. The question
was; then, whether they would agree, or net, so to
.put off the business.
Mr. G. said, he (hould have no to the
taking of a new census before the expiration of ten
years, if it was thought to be neteffary; but he
could not think of doing it before the proposed tax
went into effe£t.
Mr. Dayton did not Bgi'ee with the gentleman
from Conneftieut (Mr. Smith) who had asserted
that the words in the original resolution and in the
amendment would have precisely the fame opera
tion, and really meant nothing. He believed that
they would operate, and were intended, to decide
the question against a new census, which the mem
bers from Connecticut., as well as from New-Jersey,
must be equally defirous.of providing for. The
chairman of the committee who reported the reso
lution under debate, had candidly acknowledged it
to be his objsdt and meaning, and other members
had given a like conftruftion to the words. Some
notice was due to the remarks of the gentlemen
from Virginia and Pennsylvania, who, though not
-entirely agreeing irr their conflruftions of the con
stitution, had broached dofilrines that were new,
and not at all warranted by that The
£ud that if a new ceufus should be taken
turned at the firft meeting of the next Con
greis, ana d direct tsx ror tfre corrtnt ymr thouio
be apportioned by then: in the fame *fe(Tion, they
must take for the rule of apportionment the old and
not the new census, until the representatives had
been regulated, and taken faats under the last enu
meration. Could it be poflible, Mr. Dayton aflced,
that any man who had read these words, " iKrcS
taxps JhaU ie apportioned among the feneral jlates
according to their rtfpecliuc numbers" could believe
that injunction obeyed, if the enumeration, last,
taken, and immediately before their eyes, should be
i-ejefted qr difiegarded, and one taken eight or ten
years previously adopted, in preference, as the rule;
ef numbers and wealth. The gentleman from Penn
sylvania had not carried bis doctrine quite so far,
but had given, as his opinion, that the return of a
new enumeration to the next session would prohibit
an apportionment of any direct tax in less than twp
years, wlieii a new reprefentat-ion would take ef
fe£t. The tendency of such a dodtrine would be
highly dangerous, as it would lock np for two years
the only resources of government, and it might be
in time of war when they would most need them,
l »nd have *0 other to resort to. Both those gen
tlemen fecmed to have conceived and afTumed for
fa6t that dircft taxes were to be apportioned ac
cording to representation, in which they were not
justified bjf the constitution. Representation and
direst taxation were both, it was true, to be adjufl
ed by onecommon ftandaid, but not by
and although in theory, of at firft view, the dif
tinftion was not linking, yet in practice it would
to he material and important.
The question upon the amendment was put and
-mgatived, there being -only 19 in favor of it.
The question was about to be put -upon the ori
gisal resolution, when
Mr. Havens wished thequeftior. to be divided.
Mr. Potter said, he was against the resolution,
becsnfe the tax would fall very unequally.- Since
the last census was taken, the situation ®f rr.any of
the states was very much altered as to population.
In the state o.' Rhode-Island, vrhich was already
cpprefTed by,the direst taxes of the state, many of
the inhabitants had removed into fiateiof New-
\oik, where they had less taxes to pay. The state
of New-York and others, he said, had increased in
population, and therefore a direst tax would operate
'verv unequally on different states.
By the report of the secretary of the treasury, it
appeared, that thr-ftareof Rhode-Iftshfrwss top*y
•?JJ,ooo (totfars a year, which would operate as a
tax of double the sum on their land-holders, from
the manner in which it would be collcdted, and
from other property being excused from fuppoiting
its fhar« of it. It wr»ulu therefore fall particu'aily
heavy on that slate, when compared with others.
It had been faiii by the gentleman fron) Pennsyl
vania (Mr. Swanwiek) in two long fpeeciirj on the
fubjedt, that a was the molt certain and
easy in collection, the-fii ft convinced him that he
knew nothing of the opprefllon of a tax
That gentleman was agaitft having the fyltem de
tailed, because it would be the means of raising ob
jections to it ; but after gentlemen had voted for
the abttraft principle they must vote for the bilk
ttlu P. believed fuiEcicm revenue might be raised
from {ti&rcA taxes. An additional tax had be ;" |f<
pn f led on fall and brown sugar. i: w*3 laid "
thtl'e were article* consumed by the poorer clafTes ;
but if a man purchased fait or sugar, he wa« pleased P
wi'k the purchase, and would pay double the tax in "
in this way, that hp would pay by a dire&.tax. 1
Nay, he believed a man felt five dollars paid in a v
diti.it way, more than 15 or 20 paid indire<£lly. v
if, he said, they were to tiy to raise Uy ir»dire6t il
mea"?, on the plan recommended by the gentlsm-"' '
from South Carolina (Mr. Harper) a part of the h
sum wanted till next fefiion, it would be seen whether
that method would not be fusrcfsfal. If it was v
then found, that the revenues arising from thence
were inefficient, there was not a person in the bouse t
who would enter into direift taxes with more rea- «
dinefs ; bat, until all indirect m?an» were tried, he t
should be unwilling to go todireft taxes.
Mr. Swanwickfaid, he was sorry that the gen- 1
tleman from Rhode-lfland (Mi. Putter) should t
have supposed, l.edid not undeiltanJ the principle t
of dired taxation, from not having felt it. Hebe- (
lieved, it had been mentioned by his colleagues, J
that a dired tax had long been colle&ed in this t
state ■; so that he had been constantly in the habit
of feeling the weight of direct taxes, as he believed j
there were few places which paid mare in this way. 1
than Philadelphia. If the gentleman had been in j
possession of landed property here, he would have :
felt the truth of this. 1
Much, Mr. S. observed, had been said on the
fubjeclof indirect taxes, and of the poor being in a
great degree exempt from them. He believed this
was not true. The duties arising from the luxu-.
ries of life, were small tn comparison to what was
raised from articles of general consumption. If
yau want productive taxes, said Mr. S. you mult
come to fait, tea, and sugar, and articles of common
use. The gentleman from South Carolina -knew
this, and had therefore introduced them into his litt
of articles which he supposed would bear additional
duty. No one would doubt, therefore, that the
1 poor paid a very heavy poriion of those duties,
r Eut the gentleman laid, let us go on a little long
: er and try the experiment. Mr. S. afited, if it was
not the moment of all others for them to look out
1 for some other o:je£t for revenue belides commerce,
1 when their imposts were wholly in jeopardy. For,
; whether they au'd to the duty on fait, sugar er any
. 01 her article recommended, what certainty could
t riiey have upon their calculation* being realised,
: when they heard of their vessels being taken alrnoft
- by hundreds.
, Whenever commerce was mentioned they always
: heard of merchants having over-traded themselves
- And did not this very circumftaiice tell them that
t the revenue mult hereafter experience a diminution,
s Once, if they had over-traded themselves, they would
e in future do less.
I Another geHtleraan had said that 300 writs had
t been iflued in one city to recover duties. But
. this, it was said, was no proof at all that a redu&ion
, of revenue would ensue. it would at least, ke al
e lowed that it proved an inability to pay, and bad
a debts would doubtless be the consequence, and that
no certaiuty could b.eplaced upon this Jpecie-3 of
y In what situation, then,'laid country
i placed? If the French continued to our ffijps
j in the way they had lately heard of, we should not,
. he said, get re .renue fufficient to pay the intcieft of
I, our debt. So that gentlemen who opposed the
7 present motion, if they were fuccefsfal, would re
s duce the country to an alarming situation indeed,
e A curious way had bten proposed of retrenching
t our expences. Now we were threatead with for
e eign attacks, it was recommended that our naval
n and military eftabjifhnient Should be reduced, This
j was extraordinary dodtiine. He believed the gen
. tleman who recommended this saving, might as well
•, have gone or, and proposed an annihilation of the
a government ilfelf, and then«here would be no r.eed
t of revenue at all.
a Our exigences, said Mr. S. are fuch,-that those
'- gentlemen who refufe to support the present propo
e fitionj, miit take upon themselves the refpoofibility.
s With them, said-he, be it ; lie did not chufe to
e take it.
, They had some observations with refpeft to the
. conflitutionality of certain points in reference to
r divest taxation ; from refle&ing upon which, he
. was of opinion that indirect taxes had 'aat original
t Jyheen contemplated by jhe conllitution. It con
J templated a fylkm of direfi taxation, supported on
. the foundation of reprefentai ion, >by which dates
, should pay according to thei* population. This
"- fort of tax, he said,. was well calculated to inspire
d cautiori in the expenditure of the public money.
Mr. 8. said he had been mil h gratified by the
d observation of his colleague from the interior of the
country, that a land tax would be more gratifying
i- to him and his eonftituentc, than an rxtenlien of in
direct taxes. He hoped the resolution would be a
greed to. Whatever might be its fate, however^
U h* should feel fatislied with having done his duty
e in exerting himfelf in its behalf.
>f The call being loud for the committee to life,
1. the question wasput and negatived, there being on
y ly 13 for it.
>f Mr. Holland had no doubt with refpeft to the
r. constitutional power to lay diredt taxes. He would
e go farther gnd fay, that it might have been better
n if government had begun with them at its firft in
e ftitution ; but he was doabtful whether the present
was a proper time to commence the business. He
it was of opinion that taxes might yet be.es
y tended so as t« prorfuoe the revenue wanted,
a Without examining into the principles of im-
II posts and excise, it might be supposed that they fell
d upon r _ 1 c merchants ; but,en examination, it would
g be found that they paid no more of them than in
y proportion to their consumption. The question
#4s whether the merchants or farmers consumed
1- molt ; for it had been insinuated that the farmer
ie scarcely p?»id any part of these duties.
d The genileinan from Maiyland, Mr. Craik,
e Teemed to think there were farmeis who paid little
- or nothing towards the expence of government.
•- He did not know any fucli. Farmers, he said, had
1- mostly numerous families, and therefore consumed
r larger quantities of imported articles. The fr,mi
lies of merchants were seldom so large, they coofe
d queutly cub fumed less. J arn.ers, he said, wetc al-
Iso failed with a r fxcife en thrir stills, from which
merchants were exempt. (
Merchants, he {aid, were in the habit of com
plaining, but government had not been inattentive
to their u-.tcre!b. He mentioned the allowance to
there in favor of tonnage. He he was con
vinced revenue was wanted, buttle thought there
was no necepty for going into direst taxes to raise
it. As to paying off the ecl>t, he doubled not, it
they raised ever so much revenue, government would
fxnd ways and means of (pending it.
He juftiiied the reduction of the military and na
val eftablirtiment. The military eftablilhment, he ,
fuid, was calculated for peace, and wasot n« other j g
use thin to garrifan our forts ; and as the frigates
were not built, there was no necelTity for an efta- S
bUrtimcnt to man tl.ero \ and indeed'he thought it "5
better that they were not finifhed, as if they were 1
out at iea> they would probably soon be added to
the*ftrengfh nf a:, e'nemy. He wilhed we had less
ta do with foreign intetcoutfe. He did not know j
what good foreign eonnedions wereef to us, tho' i
\ government had long 6een hunting them up. He "
tho't the" more we lived by ourselves the bitter.
. He, belitwed it wpuld Ue best to pursue indirect i
taxes, if it were only with a view to keep the pub- 1
lie debt out of fight, as a part «f this debt had ori- i
ginally been the property of individuals, who would | j
murmur very much if they were called upon to pay 1
either towards reducing the principal* pr iifeliatg- f
iug the interest of it. j
The farmers already Raid ctax ontbeir lliils and
if they wete to pay a 'diredt tax also, it would be
like taxing both principal and interest. If a diredl
tax was aid, he hoped, thsiefoie, the duty on -Hills :
would be repealed.
Mr. Buck wilhed the deeifioa on the qseftion
might be poflponed, for the purpofeof reading the
communications jttil received irom the Prelident,
as they mighl throw a light upon the filiation of
this country with refpeft to foreign countries,
which might influence their decision upon it.
After ieveral observations on the propiiety of
the proposed potVponement, the question was at
Jcrigth taken on the foimer part of die refolulion,
viz. that proposing a diieft tax to be laid on land
r with improvement! thereon, *nd carried by a co«-
fiderable majority there being 56 in its favour.
r On the quettion upon the Ltter part of, the is
| solution, viz. that a tax shall be laid upon slaves,
t with certain exceptions, being about to be put.
t Mr. Christie .moved t® «dd, "on all real and
personal propelty wilhinthe United States."—On
j fuggellion of Mr. Giles, the wordi, " and other
property" were substituted in place of the above,
t and ontfie question being .put upon it, it was nttga
} tived, there being only 18 in favour of it.
J The latter part ef the refolutioi) wa3 then pu:
as it flood, and carried, 54 members voting for it.
| The committee rose, reported the lefelutioß,
t and had leave to fit again. Adjourned.
5 Important Public Document,
* _
I THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
c And for Sale
* -At the Office of the Editor of the Gazette of the
United States,
y No 119 Chcl»ut-S icct,
s fntlCt ONJt DOLLAR AND FiFTT CKNTs]
A FEW COPIES OF THE
f Receipts and Expenditures
e OF THE UNITED STATES,
For the Year 1795, N
Being the Period to which, an account can be
be«nu4« up. February 12 $
JNew Theatre.
. Qt THURSDAY EVENING, February 23,
Will be prefeated, a tragedy, called
II JANE Shore.
Duke of Clofter Mr. Warren
Lord Haftinga Mr. Wigasll
Caielb/ Mr. Warrell, jun.
c Sir .Richaid PUicMTf Mr. Dartey, ji*n.
Jielmour , Mr. Fox
Dumont Mr. Moreton
'• Jtarl of Derby Mr. WarreU
0 Alicia Mrs. Merry
Jane Shore Mi*. Morris
c ; To which will be added,
(For the firft time in this Theatre, —and with the original
0 Overture and French Muiic, compofeu by Moafr. Hoc hk- '
e fojt, never performed in America)
u A Grand, Serious, PANTOMI *<£ BALLET, called
1 Ihe Death of Capt. Cook •
n [As performed in Covcnt-.Gaiden Theatre, London, under
the dirt&ion of Mr. Byrni, upward*'of llund
is red .Nights, >viih universal applause.]
■e With Entire New Seen,erf, Machinery,
Dresses and Decorations.
le Deferring an fcxailßeprelcntatiou of the Manners and Cut
ic llotns ot Ihe Nativeiof Ow'hyiicc, in if,e Pacific Ocean,
g ' j N|firrs. Byroe
j Fr»nci»
1 Warren
I- Tht Principal Charafteri Darley
r. j Moreton
y I l°v
t Warrell
»nd Mrs.Byrne.
e, "Indian Men and Women, Sailors, Marines, ice. by red
1 of the Company.
The Scencry designed and excemcd bv Mr. Mrnoniii,
V On Friday, E* "v On# has'his FAutr.
t+t On Saturday, Ihe V. Hl ll of To *tun» with
id Entertainments.
er The fourth night of THE WAY TO GET MAR
RIED will be on Monday next.
Box, One Dollar twenty-five cents. Pit Seven Eirfr-hs
of a Dollar, and Gallery, half a dollar.
Ie £T Tickets to be had at H. &P. Rice's dook-ftore
"• No. 50 Higb-ftreet, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
a. Ladies and Geutlemea are requested to fend their
.([ servants to keep places a quart*- before 5 o'clock, and
[jj to order them, as soon as the comjlany are leafed, to
• withdraw, as they eaiinot on any account be permit
ted to remain.
1 he Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
;d Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
er Places for the Boxes to ue taken at the Office in tlie
front of the theatre, from 10 till 2 o'clock, and from
lO till 4 on the days of performance,
le Viy~slT K ESPUBL ICA !
Head of Ghffler, Queen Anne's C-Unty,
id February 17, 1797-
:d pHIS Day, the Partnership »t ANDREW M'CASK
j. 1 EY and Company having diffelvcd by 1 motuai con
sent, these have any demands against said Firm, are
*•" defirad to call on said M'Calkey for.fettlement, w'le is ap
pointed to f«ttl« laid coucsra. ' Fek. ag-»wfStuijt"
d^ette^'Mnite&Mates,
AND *
Philadelphia Daily Advertijer,
PHILADELPHIA, February i».
*'m' ' * ~
UPON THE PRESIDENT'» RETIREMENT.
"W HEN »ur attention has been fondly ftrain'd,
To mark a great and and arduous part fuftain'd ;
As the affeifting close at lemgtli draws nigh,
Sighs swill each breait, and tear- bedim each eye:
Thus, from the scene when Washington withdraws,
Sorrow reftiains the impulse to applause ;
Yet rays os-transport beam through our diftreft,
And cause a pleating pain we can't express.
View him rush forth to set his cauntry free.
Ease, fortune, life, all fcorn'd for liberty.
When Victory blew her trump, Revenge, in vain,
Pointed to brethren chain'd, and heroes slain :
His melting foul the fc«urge of War deplor'd ;
" I feught to save", hefaid, and fiieith'dthe fw»rj.
Nut, when deftruiUve anarchy ensued ;
When the patriot's hands embrued ;
His mighty mind a perfect system drew,
And jarring chaes into order grew.
That lufurredion rose I blufj to tell:
But even high Heaven has had its holts rebel.
When, fruitlef> prov'd each effort to persuade,
Sorrowing he drew his former blood-ftain'd blade I
Lo ! thoulands join t'enfsrco the general will ;
He but appears, and all the storm is still.
Hl« t arts atylum find ;
Here persecuted Virtue loothes its m nd; C
Here freedom, peace an.l plenty are cembin'd. J
His labors ceale— He makes a term of red,
And pleas'd beholds that all his works are bled.
Columb.a's happy sons unite to raise,
The theme' of boundless gratitude and praise.
His _qu»l in pail times we learch in vain.
And ah! *' his like we ne'er (hall fee again".
Extntfl sis a letter from a gentleman in Europe, dated
l4, ijp6.
" If you still take an intereli in the events which
are occurring in this Woody quarter of the earth, you
will perhaps be glad to have Coine I suppose,
however, it will be j.pne to yflu, that both liic Xrencn
armies which began the campaign by ani ruption int»
Germany have been driven back to rius Rhine, after
infli&ing and fuffering ealamities, the mere relation of
which ought to give pain ife eyery hearei, but which
are told and heard with the utmost poilitile indifi'er
. ence. The campaign is drawing towards a cloie. and
the two parties are just where they were when it be
gan 'batiuj abeut an equal (hare jif lofifes on both fides.
The armies will loon go into winter quarters and re
cruit for a new corjflifl of the fame kind at the op-ning
of the next fcalbn.—ln' Italy the? reach are undertak
ing to efhblilh a new .Republic upon their conqtiefts,
probably for the fake of fearing the Emperor into a
cession of the Low Countries, CorQcais abandoned by
the Engli/h, and Sp«(ipi has joined in . the w.ar againtt
Great-Britain—There fecms id be some partiality at
lealt in beginning a war on one tida and fiuifljiag it on
the other—The Spanish declaration of war singtis a;
one of ievances against Britain, that in t!i4.trea
ty with the United States of America the Briti/h go
vernment had facrifked the rights of Spain, which
were well know nto theon. This is what in vulgar lan
guage is called letting the cat out of the bag. Our
magaanimous allies al France do not like the Spaniih
declaration litcreforej but think it a weak .thing- This
preciaus conteffion of Spain is the best of all panegy
rics upon Mr. Jay's treaty, .it is the extorted eulo«iuro
of an id'verfary defeated. Our town 'meeting
to» s I dare fay will not understand it. They k.Tow how
to vote a treaty infamous or to kicjc it so H—, or ta
throw ftonesat a man *-ho happens to be in his fenias *
; when they arc ijlatl, for opening his lips in its defence.,
but the address of diflblving a formidable fecrct com
bination and making both the eonfpiring parties a
bandou the preteiiiftms upon which they had joined
their forces to fuppoit each other, the influence of a
settlement with one antagonist in procuring an advan
tageous bargain for another, the difcegrectiag of de
, figiis in a third quarter, the more deeply hofiile be
caule Uifguilcd under the mask of the jnioft cordial
friendfhip. Thtfe are things which the of i
time v>,ll unfold, which wiil prave how well a town
meeting ii.qualified to discuss ind decide the political
. mterelts and foreign relations of the American Union,
which will gloiioufly vindicate the policy of the
with Britain, but which wijl not make a iitiyle towa
meeting orator or voter one particle the wil'er or the
better for his experience.
" L-rd IVJahneibury is at Paris endeavoring ti> ne
, gotiate a peace ;' nobodyiexpeifb that .his million will
come to any thing. The French partisans fay that the
British minifiry only want a pre'ext to raise the fup
j plies for the next year and do not 4 intend finctrely to.
make peace. TheErtglifh paTtifiins f:i} t.'ja! tTtlTKiuh
J Directory are determined not to makej eacs, because
r they are ambitious of conquest, and TTope to make
- more revolutions, the eharget may be tru? on both
fides. The French Direiftoiy have prnpofed a law to
5 retrain tif licentiuufnefs ot the ptcis. They com
plain bitterly agairdt all? their journalists. i'ou will
r fee their moral and political ftrmon to the I.egiflature <
" upon the abuses of the press. An old Roman poet .
lays that the Gracchi lhould not complin of /edition."
COMMUNIC A TJGNS.
Great cities were pever governed by feeble laws.
The rabble of Paris, London and Conllantinople need
Wronger cordi than those of love, and some more.ter
rible power than reason and confciencc : yet the cli-
mors agaibft the government ..nd tie efforts to loosen ,
iia bands coiae frotn the large towns, and from those
clalfes in the large towns which create the necefiit.y for
energy and even security m the laws. Those vho need
b the most reftraiut most abhor it. Let those who fa vo»
the attempts to make the mixed multimde of a iiate
- houle yard the judge of treaties, and the legiflat«r»
over legifiators, fer.ates and president, coofider the
is good sense of the scheme and the very hopes ul prof
peft of the cotrfequences.
Democrats, the way to bring it about that we have
ej too much vigor in the laws is lo to majiage Jhe matter
by clubs, mobs and newipaper lies that oiir prelent
r mild laws cannot answer. When tbele are tra.nplcd
' on, l'uqh will be defircd as the lons of riot will not even
0 dare to sneer at. •
The writer of the Numbers signed " C:lizfn, J '
is either a heirling of the 'Frefich, or a gudjton.
c Sometimes his sentiments breathe a fsrviiiiy of ipir
n it embody'd in a drowfynefsof ftite that llrong'y
marks the fatigue of drudgery per ftieet—and some
times hefpeaks of his reliance upon the diliuterert
ednefs of France with such strong marks of clinck.
ling simplicity, that one can hardly believe it pufli
ble that his innocence has been lolt, or was worth
the purchase. Such a writer is apt to impose
much more than a htiilhed writer contrt. Drtidue- »
t v may pu*uc> a ftupidjty that is allied tojiwrJki-ty, in its crude and unguarded moment#.—and ft r- *
vility in the pen of fu h a writer betrays no un
naturalness? pf manner. The ?panie! acts as natural
ly in his fawning as the Maftiff in his fidelity.
• People who are given to bragging are apt to brag
most of the go-id qualities which they have not■ Cow
ards are brave in talk—tongue valiant. N»ne affeift '
to stand so much up»n their word of honor as men
noted for being trickifh, slippery fellows. Women
who have not virtue are generally the greatest prudes,
and talk as if they had rather lose a limb than a kiss. Sc
A remarkable instance of this appears in the condufl
of the French. *We attacked the enemy viithJkilland
tourage, fays the modest Buonaparte. The French
nation by their -victories has aftontjhed Europe, are the e
words cf the Dire&ory in the gazette of the 10th inft.
The usual modesty is displayed in telling the poor, lit- F
tie, humbled kingi of Naples and Sardinia, the Haves ar
of the French, of the generous, humane, peace-loving t y
disposition of thit Republic, which the said kings will
rot believe one word of, as they know the contrary to
their cost. Thev tell them also »f the grandeur of
the Republic. All this is well—it is the nohle 1
art of bragging according to the laws ef Gaftony. k
But they alfe baaft of their inviolable fidelity to trea
ties. What a plumper. The very nation boasts of
its fidelity to treaties which has publicly difclained the w
obligation of their treaty with the United States, be
cause they found in it nothing but difad-vantage.
Citizen Adet's note is a pretty theory ot good faith P
and the practice of the Buccaneers in the Weft-Indies
a fine commentary upon the text. Our merchants 11
know what their treaty faith is as well as the king of I
Sardinia understands their generosity to their neigh
bors.
It has been stated that one >of the London newspa
pers, in opposition to the ministry, demanded two '
hundred and eighty pounds sterling a mbifth, for vin- *
dicating the French. This w»s before the war broke 1
out between England and France. The wages were r
thought too high, and were not the'n agreed to by a
the French. How much is it worth for a printer in J,
Philadelphia to vindicate French depredations at this £
time of apprehension and embarraflment amongst the
merchants? Mr. Bache's monthly wages mull be high,
if thfy are proportioned to his ar.ti-patriotic ferviccs.
When Great-Britait)'feized our veflels by virtue of
the order of 6th November, no one juflified her cou
<lu(3,' no one rejoiced in it b»t the Jacobins, whofciz- c
ed the occasion to create confufion and to bring our
own government into contempt. • friends of'peve
and order recommended negriciation firft, and then a 1
resort to arms. Tljey were a<flive and zealous for f
measures of energetic preparation. >
Contrafl this wish the langiiage ef the Jacobins at
this day. Twice as much is plundered by French vef- J
fels as formerly by the British- It is good enough for j ,
you, fay they Barney is feafted because he comes i
with orders to plunder his very friends and neighbors. | 1
You can do nothing a gain ft Fiance, yoa must beseech <
Tnercy. Their style towards our own government and ,
that employed in refpeft to-the Freiuh leads all real ,
Patriots to think they will adh.ereto the latter in cafe ' 1
of a war. Bitter wijl be thejr repentance if they
ftould. It is time if there are any haneft men among j
the Democrats to desert f party which seems already to 1
have deierted the eaufe of the country.
Thi« Forenoon the Ofßcers of the Militia of ,
the City and C OUB, y "f Philadelphia, waited on 1
■the President of United States, in a body, and
presented the following address ;
The Address of the Offircra of the Militia of the
City and County of Philadelphia.
TO GE&RGE Wsi&HiNGtOK, frefident of the
United States of Aiperica. \
SIR,
While offering to you our congratulation! ,on
the return of this auspicious day, we cannot re
frain from mingling an expreflion of extreme re
gret at the approaching close of your political life,.
When we beheld you as commander in chief of'
the armies of America, leading us to victory and the
eftablifhtnent of national independence; and after
liSving accomplifbed this grand objril, retiring from
your exalted (fation, and embracing the undiitin
guifhed charafier of,a private citizen ,we believed
the meafuieof your fame was-full
Bue when io obedience to the voice of your
ijountry you again relinquished the sweets of do
irieftic retirement ; and we b.eheld the storms which
our happiness difpell d by, the juflice,
vifderei, vigilance, and fism.nefs of your tonduft,
public credit maintained, our inestimable conftituti
011 protedled, infurredf ion crushed, and ths nation
al peace preserved—Language was wanting; to ex
press the fulnefs of qui feelings. Under such im
preiCons, great as eur confidence is in your succes
sor, we cannot but lament the refolutipn yo.u have
taken to rsftgo the helm-
And now, Sir, in our capacity as citizens and
soldiers ; ev/r ready to obey and support the lawt
of our country -<-~we bid you a tender, an affe£l,ion
ate farewell : and while > ye offer our earned l'uppli
cations, that #very hour of your remaining years
may be as peaceful and happy to yourfelf, as the
mod splendid period of your public flationg have
been beneficial to your country, we reft with per
ieft confidenc«, that the close of a life of virtae
3nd of glory will be crowned with an eternity of
Ailifb ineffable.
Sy trdtrof tie Officers of tbi militia'tf C. an C. Philai.
WM. MACPHERSON, Brig. Gen.
PU;lad. February 22*
To which the President returned the following
Answer.
To thq Officers of the Militia of the City and
County of Philadelphia.
Gestlemen,
I RECEIVE as I qught, with great sensibility,
the congratulations on this day of ?e refpedtable a
body as the officers of the militia of the city and
county of Philadelphia.
Yeur favorable sentiments of my exertions to
promote the prosperity and happiness of our coun
try, cannot but be pleasing to me ; for be assured
the approving voice of my countrymen is the moil
grateful reward which can be offered.
The patriotism, uprightness and abilities of him
who is to fucoeed to the Ration I now have the ho
nor to hold, will leave yousio roam to regret my
retirement.
.'ar your affe&ionate farewell, and supplications
foi my future peace and-happinef«, accept, geutle
tnen, my warmeit thanks - arid I sincerely pray
that yon may colle&ively and individually enjoy un
interruptedly, prosperity and felicity.
G". WASHINGTON.
"
GAZETTE MARINE LIST. Wf
i Spe
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA, "P
. v rol
ARRIVED. Sw
Sloop Hector, King, New-Yorjc 5 days. J
Brig Jjfin Henderfon, White, K>ngft» n (Jaw.) J Ol
36 days ®"<
Commerce, Reynold*, New-York 4
Sch'r Dispatch, Siutfon, Aux Cayes 30
Kitty, Harper, St. Jagt> de Cuba 31
Ship Criterion, Johnson, from New-York, is
below.
Captain Harper wa« carried into St. Jago by a
French privsteer. After a detention ps 30 days,
and being plundered ps every thing, they gave up
the vefTel rbepaufe nobody would purchase her.
He left the following veifelg there— 110
Brig Woolwich of Philadelphia from Port-au- ueJ
Prince. Schr. Polly, do. do; Brig John, Tlic- P CI
ker, New York, fiom Jerenie.
The above, all condemned. are
The brig Lavinia, ot Salem, from Aux Cayes wa
was sent in the day capt. Harper failed. co '
The schooner Harriett, cajf. Shields from this
port ia taken and carried into Port de Pain where
(he was_ condemned, Thirty thousand dullars were _
inlured 011 this vessel. J"'
Extract of a li tter from Capt. Kingftpn, of the , t " i
(hip Andromache, arrived at New York from
Cadiz. b ''
" We were !>,;arded on our passage by a French 01
prjvxteer, wh» robbed and plundered the ship of e- ' CI
yery thing they wanted belonging to the cargo, wl
such as wine, biandy, raisins, lemonj, &c. befidc | B
robbing the second mate and people ef their clothes, J°'
although they knevy that the' ship had been out a 10
long time, and was earning on the coast at an in- Wl
clement season, when moie than wc had woald be eJi
wanted." » ca
The schooner Kitty, Harper fr»m J\iemfe for * u
Philadelphia, is taken by the French, and sent into S<i
Cuba. ca
The ship Aurora, Suter, is arrived at Amfter-
dam, 36 days from thisport. w
NEW-YORK, February 21. ct
Capt. Kingftoii, ps the ship Andromache, of Phi- ol
ladelphia, arrived here on Sunday, from Cadiz, has
favored us with the following particulars :
Andromache, at sea, Jan."s6, X 797. lc
In lat. 22, 30, N. long. jB, o, W- at 9> A. M, a
fail h'j\je in fight, by the wind, ftanning to th.e north- 31
, ward. At half past 9, A. M. saw she was a cutler, nl
with English colors hoisted to'her gaff end ;at ioj A. a
! M. fre fired a shot at us and hoisted French colors j, £l'
1 we hauled our fleering fails down, and at half pail 10,
A. M. they hai)ed us and ordered us to hoifl our boat
out, which we did, and sent her on board the said pri
. vateer cutter with f. yjr hands, and the fecund mate.
The boat returned \yith fix French Hilars and two of
ficers, keeping the ship's people oij board the said cut- rt
1 ter ; the officers ordered Capt ICmgfton to get his pa- p
per* and go on board the cutter, which done, si
Tbe boat returned with four more French people; (j
and while the Capt. was on board the said cutter, they A
1 overhauled the ship, fpjlling the wine and brandy, and
| robbing and plundering ever thing the j could coajf at. _
In the space of thrpe huurs that the captaii) was on *■'
board the said cutter, they took, belonging tq the car- -
go, one quarter cask of Sherry wiuc, m irked P. C. C.
one raflc r>f rmfcne, box of do. marked Y. they .
: alio Scuttled one of the pipes «f brandy, and pumvMjs
<>fF a ten gallon cask and five other smaller ones.befldes
what wa- ilrank and spilt; they i]fn broke open all the
, lemon bexfs they could come at, raifm boxes the fame
—likewise the ol ve jars, and lent thera off ip. ha*ii- t
kerchiefs, robbed the second mate of two watches and
mofl of his deaths, likewise a trunk that belonged
- formerly to a cap,ta:n Caldwell, they broke open and
f Hole moil of his cloaths out of it, and rood of the
e people loft more or less of their cloaths. A boy by 0
r the name of johii Baptifta, they kept on board the said f
s cutter. At 2, P. M. they quitted iis and made fail, a
_ Handing ta the northward. Ail the information wc ,
. could get was, that tl»e cutter was called the Le Fame, ;
c cruising from Cayenne, out 15 days.
Signed ot sea, the 27th January, 179''.
r SIMON' KINGSTON, 1
NOBLp C. STEWART, 1
h WILUAM GAttTLEY,
THOMAS DATE. I
: January Spoke the schooner Nancy, cap
tain Bartholomew Conier Putnam, of Baltimore, out .
1 five days from Bermuda, where she had put in ia dii'-
tress, liound for St. Bartholemews, all well, in lat. '
24, 19, long. 5.9.
I. ARRIVED.
f. Schooner Fame, Holman, Virginia 5 dayi
e John Warren, Putnam, do. 3
SJoop Robert, Ketch ell, St. Catharine 10
<j The brig Favorite, Williams, is foundered at sea.
r»
i- . Meffrt. M'Lean £s* Lang,
j. A few days ago we were informed by *n in
re fertion in the Coffee House Book, that the French
le were deliyeiing up their piratical plundet committed
K on our commerce in the Weft Indies;— Tel! hits
r . who declared it, that it i« a POSITIVE FALSE-
Ie HOOD. The brig Sutatl and PoHy, belonging
0 ( to myfclf, Leffert Lefferts, and Thomas Carpen
ter, has been taken on the 20th January on tier
way to Jamaica from this port, carried into Port
De PaiXj and vessel and cargo condemned by.S.on
thonax, without the form of a trial, declaring it
to be unnecessary to ask any queftiong. as the French
has given positive inftiudians to seize
every American vessel bound to or /torn Britifli
id ports. Thirty-five American veflels have been
qondeinned and fold w the fame port, and in rtie
fame manner as the Susan and Pollv, within a/ew
y, daye after her condemnation. Any person wifliing
a to know further of FRENCH FRIENDSHIP,
id (pay know It by reading captaiu Artel's letter, ,io
pofTeiTion of
to JAMES Mc INTOSH.
Bospron, Feb. 5.
'd Arrrived since our last—Brigs Polly, Bunion,
Eflequibo, 20 days ; George, Darg, Cadiz, 78.
Arrived ytfterday, ship Caroline, Capt. <\Jdeß,
m 66 days from Liverpool. About 7or 8 days since,
o- fell in with Capt. Cutter, in a fchr. from St. Tho-'
)y mas's for Poitland—had 101 l both her mtfts, &c.
&c. Captain .Mden fppplied him with spars for
ns marts, and with proviliona. Dec. 26, long. 34,
e- lat. 38, spoke captain Zach. Swaine, fiom Ncw
iy York for Greenock, and took from on birnrd her,
11- the Captain (Spencer) and supercargo of fchodner
Polly, of Baltimore ; who, after being out 38 days
frero Demerara for Baltimore, experienced a Yery
severe -afe, wh.'ch carried away her wafls, kc. &c«
When left, (he had five feet vra er in ho'd —Capt.
Spencer had been two days on the wreck.before
capt. Swaine fell him. The crew of the y"
Polly, proceeded on to Greenock with Captain p cr i
Swaine.
Arrived yesterday, fchr. Mars, Rider, 29 days fuel
from Jacqnemel. Left there, captain Rich, in a
Snow, to fail soon for this port; Spoke nothing, fj
Markets dull—produce tolerable low. Nothing j,
new. »?'•
HUB— The
By this day's Mails. ;j
NEW-YORK, ai.
A letter from Niagara, dated Jan. 2s, fays,—
<« I cannot forbear, (scarce as nay time is) of men-
tiohing the-Nancy's being froze up at the islands, con
near the mouth of the Detroit liver, and »ut of four
people who attempted to gain the main land, about
(ia miles) twa were frozen to death, the other 2 /
are not yet entirely recovered—one of the former '
was a Mr. Butler, belonging*'to New Jcrfcy, and
conceded wiih col. O'Har* of Philadelphia."
BOSTON, February 14.
I P aU
Capt. Donnel at Salem from the territory of Jm\
the redoubtable Vi&or Hugues, and who left the
junior Madagalcar, Jan. 23, informs, that up to
that date, the moil atrocious />i 1 acics continued to
be committed on American property. VefTels
brought in, were con (lantly condemned ; The mcde
of trial being extremely irregular :—the only de
fence allowed of, wasJthrough a partial linguist,
who seldom repea tell half the fails ftjtni(hed by'
the Americans, but always demanded fix or eight
joes, for his diflervices. Hugues ouferved hitnfelf,
in a moment of contrition, that his proceedings q.
were improper ; ana that a day of retribution lie He
expected would come. He remarks, that Ameri- Al
can veflels with certificates froip the Freni h Con
suls £hould be receded ; but what was to be cert ill -
ed was not mentioned. Capt. Williams, an Ameri-
matter of a privateer out of Gaudaloupe.
—On receiving his commission, he declared, he g r
would exert himfelf ip the Htmoll against the open 1]
enemies of France, but that it never ihauld be said
of hira, that he treubled the veflels ct neutrals, and a t
all, of his own country. On his cruize, in- fl.r
(lances ocfuricfl of his meeting with American ves
sels boaud 10 British ports, whom he treated well,
and furuiflied with many neceflaiie* they were in
need of. At length he captured a British (hip yrith
a cargo yalued at 40,0001. which b e g ot fafely in.
, Ma/kets were bad. »
By Capt. Aider, we have received London pa- of
pers two days later than rececived by capt. Choate : n
They do not contradiA any part of the preceding ; fii
but the complexion of tlie London prints have j' 1
mote the call of continued hofliiities, than an ex
p eolation of approaching Peace. The immediate
filling Up of a Voluntary loan of eighteen millions at
sterling in a few hours, may give the appearance we ec
fuggeit ; and may poffibty.alter the dij'pofition (if al
it had one) of the Englifli ministry in regard to
| Pe.ice.
• . , , ... j, .1 TWaMMf AIIW 1 . ■ \
__ AUGUSTA, (CcorgU.)
Speech ps his Excellency the Governor, delivered j
5 at the opening ps the feflion of the State Le- ft
; jjflature. «
The honourable the President of the Senate, and fj
• .the hunnrablc, the Speaker of the Houie ps Re-
J preicutaf ives. _ u
| The ; ulitical yeai having expired on the 9th infl. j,
I have had the expendituies of. government made «
, pot to that time, and an abftracl thereof Ido my- e
I felf the honor to enslofe tor your information. I '
, alfe enclose a lift of vacancies which have taken .
e place in the reeefs of the Legislature, with the 1
» names of th£ persons appointed by the Executive. <
Such communications as 1 have received, and which i
in my opinion, requite legislative deliberation, arf j
likcwife eijclofed. ,
A suit .in Equity has been instituted ia the Su j
preme Cnurt ot the United States, by Alexander (
'* Moultrje and others, agaitili the llate : This cafe,
II tbpugh not altogether new, is of such impoitatvce 1
as to detHand the most serious coafideration.
From the present mode of making returns of .
taxable property, many ir.aocuraciea happen, cou
's fequetuly there are many itiftancfS of the state be
-3 ing defiauded of a confiderajale part of h«r revenue,
o I conceive this might be remedied, by the appoint
a. ment of a fit and qualified perfoH, who (huuld be
vested with a cootrouling power over the fevera}
■ revenue officers.
n- The treaty which was held in order to afford the
:b state an opportunity to exiinguifh the Indian claims,
:d to the lands between the Oconee and the Oakmul
ts gee, and b-tween the Alatamaha End the St. Ma
s' ry's has failed of luccefs. The report and proceed
)g ingS of our coinmiffioners on this int.etelling fubjed,
n- being,too lengthy to be brought within the compass
er of a letter, 1 baVe direfled one of the fecretaties of
"t the Execytive, to attend with tbena at any time
n- your honorable body may please to fignify your
it wilh to enter on that buGncfs.
cb The Indians between rhe 9th of June and Bth of
ze September, wounded one wan, burnt a house, and
i(h carried off 19 horses and some hoylahold furniture,
en since which I have not heard of their doing any
he mifchief.
w The distress and ruin which a large number of
ng our fellow citizens are involved in, i(i confequenct
P, of the dreadful conflagrations yirhich have taken
in place i.i Savannah, claim the attention of the jU.e
giflatfcie. I dt> therefore feii;<ufly recocimend to
' you, to adopt' fach jiheafures as will in fame degree
alleviate the distress of the needy fufferers. AntJ
>n» as
town by fire also ; it appears to me to be necessary
for the security of the public offices, that a ftand
ce, ing guard (hould be kept up and an appropriation
io- made for their fuppott.
ic. JARED IRVIN.
for FOR SAL £,
At Whitesides's TpA-Warehoufe,
er . t • A'e. 99, North Second Street.
' Impel ial f Hyson Skin.
I,er Hyson, Frelh Teas. < Souchong,
S Y 6 Young Hyson, j \ Eohea
cry Dec. 9.
At the r,-qutftt>f several 7. a Jin tr.i Gcnikmcn.
THE NEW *RO FUND A
AT Mr. xICKETTS'S AMPHITHEATRE,
WILL, onThurfday evening, February 13, be o-.rn
for the receftit.il of 'company, with the lame fu~
perb decorations as on the PREiIDENI
NIGHT. There w ill be a variety of Stage Performances,
such as RQPJS DANCING,
Songs pnd Duets by Mr. and Mrs. Chambers Mil.
Sully. THE RUINS OF TROY, or The World turu'a
upside doyrn, a Hornpipe, by Mils Suljy. *
A comic ballet dance ealled POOR f ACI£ or the Bere
voUnt Crew.
The Jotkies'Hornpipe, or the fpoi-ts ol the turf, by Mr.
Ricketti and four alliflants.
The whole of the evening's entertainments to conciUae i
with a g'a»d feriotn Pantomime,
Brought but JirJi in America hj Mr. Ricketls,
(in three aRs) called, thte
Death of Captain Cook.
$y The to open at 5 and the performances >-f
consilience at a quarter after 6 o'clock.
FOR S A L E,
A NEAT plain CHA R OT, %*ti'h bat ietntolj three
months in ye; it ctf tie titty/and dtlltn tajh, and is nasi,
offered at a ctnfid'erahU deduftitn, ftyaile in approved Nttci at 3
«> 6 months. ,
Alfoy tie? pair of Carriage Hor/ft. The Chzriot and one
pair of the Horses are -well worth the. attention of any perf on
ftroiis oj purcbaftng.
Enquire at Mr. KIDS, Market-ftrces.
Fehruqry 21,
' College-Hall.
Readings and Recitatiqns,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
On 7 HURSDAT ErJilfifNG, February 23,
At 7 o'clock, will be delivered,
FUST PART
OJe— : —The Genius of America
Hotspur's defeription of a fop Shakefpearp
All the World's a Stage
SECOND HART
Cato's Speech to the Senate
His Scene with Csefar's Ambassador
Hi* Speech ov?r tht Body of his S»n
TUI K.D PART
Brutus aid Caflias
1 he (Quarrel of Brutus and Paflius
Tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfon, jun. at the Library ;
atmr. M'Elwee's looking-glass-store, N°- 7°. ®- Fourth
flreet; and at Mr. Carey's, Boakfeljer,
H»lf a dollar each. •»
Notice to Calico Printers,
SHEXISrS SALE
virtue of a Writ of Venditioni Sxfopas, ro me di
rected, will be eypofed to Tale at the
of William and" Thomas Jordans, in Chnftiana Hundred*
Newcastle county State of Delaware, oh Wednesday, th£
firft day of March next, at te* o'clock, a m, of said day r
the following deicribed property, confining j>f, frame
buildings, fcveral Urge coppers, a valuable Callendor, al
so, a number of prints and a machine all ift good order \
stoves, household and kitchen furniture, two valuable cov» |
and a quantity of scanting, being fejzcdaad taken
ecutioii as the property of William and ihonaas Jordan®,
and wiii be fold for calh, by
WILLIAM HIDHAM, Seriff.
February 1797 If3f
20 Dollars Reward,
, 1_) UN away from the Subfcviber, living in St. George's
XV hundred, Newcastle county, snear to Port Pennjj .
■ flat, of Delaware,a NEGRO MAN named JACOB,
in this Hate. He js a (hort, fellow, about £
j feet 4 inches high ; ahd had on when he went away, an o~
live-colored coattee, of hoßic-mad'e cloth, lined with
white flunnel all through, a*d white metal butt.ons; an el 4
of wjiite-colored cloth, the (Uirts of whicii
r he cut off, to make it into a round one ; his breeches are
i oj' a dark grey cloth, very old, and patched in a number
. of places ; white, very ceaj-fe, yarnjftockings ; one pair
los coarse shoes, mach worn; and a pair-os half-worn,
black-grained fioes, bound r,ound with black (ilk ferrety
" ing, and lined under tha tuckle with white linen : also a
c half-worn fur hat, very high in the crown, which taper*
r. off in form of a fugar-loar, very narrow in the brim and
h is bound with black iilk firreting. He alft> teok with him
• e a Jong biuc toat, lined all through with blue ihalloon of
the fame colour ; copper, (helled buttons with three of
th,e fame fcrt on each cuff ; a yelhjw-colored, elakic, old
' furtout coat. Said Jacob is remarkably fond of playiog
;r on the violin, and took one with him; the cale of whitb
is of home-made, lead colored cloth, bound with red fer
.c reting. Whoever apprehends said Runaway, and lodge*
him in any of tlie goals in this (late, so that his maltcr
may get him again, (hall receive the abov« Reward, and
J ' all reasonable charges paid by
1- THOMAS FARMER.
*. N. B. Said Jacob has foimcrjy lived with Mess. Jame*
e _ Eves and Thomas Rebiufon. February wtsT4t
t. ? —7— —T
for Rotterdam,
Sj Edward Jsnis, Majier,
HAVING the greatest part of her cargo engaged, wil
a- fail with all convenient speed. For Freight or Passage, ap
i - ply to the captain on board, or to
a • JOSEPH SlMS
ifs February sa mw&ftf
"f TO BE SOLD
ne By Public Vendue at the Merchants' Coffee-Houfe in
ur S«cotiU-ftreet, on Saturday the aith instant, at y
o'clock in the evening,
of A W£LL finifhed three story hrick house, three
n d A story brick kitchen, and lot of ground, situate
on the east ftcle Fourth-street, ne.r ialTafras or Race-
C ' street, No. 47, north ; eontaining in bi«a»\th on Fourth
ftreet ?bo«t 17 feet, and in depth feet. Sub-
to a yearly grouad-reut of 71. and clear of every
other incumbrance. It isnowletat isolper annum;
icc fold as the estate, and by the Executors of the last will
, en and tellament of William Lehman, deeeafed. The
terjns of payment will be made easy, and the condi
tious. publifted at the time ami place of sal«, by
WILLIAM SHANNON, Au&ioneer
February i»
hi» For Sale,
"I By George Defchamps, No. 91,
i' on NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and "half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in baryta and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or (ingle one
Dry Codfifh, from one to fifty kentalt
Fine and cearfe Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, til the stone
and ground, for manure and ftuocji-work
1, December i;For Sale
By private conh uS, a very valuableJZftate, known by
the name »f
" C H a T HAM,
MOST delightfully situated On the north bank of Rap-
pahanoclt river, opposite the town of -Frederickfburg, in
the flat: of Virginia, coqfifting of eleven or fifteen hun- J 1
dred acres, as may bed suit the purchaser. There is on j
this estate, a large and well built brick house, ccmtainng
nine commodious rooms, exdufiveol a spacious hall or en-
try, 21 feet square, two pair of ftaiis, suitable andconven-
ient pafiages, and excellent dry cellars. It is placed on a
fine he-lthy eminence, commanding beautiful views in p
every diredlion over the towns of Freiierickfburgh and,
Falmouth, and an extensive cultivated country.—The*
grounds adjoining the house are neatly laid out in pleas-
ure and kitchen gardens interspersed with a variety of _
scarce trees, a choice colle&ion of flowers and flowering.
shrubs, and enriched by various ferts of the following
fruits, viz apples, pears, walnuts, chefnutsj-eherries,peach-
es, plumbs, neiflarinesfapricats, grapes, rafberries,
goofeberrie»,ftraw!ierrie»,and currants; the whale admi
rably varied by turfed Hopes which have been tormed by £
great labour and expence. Bordering yp»n 'h.elV im
provements,are several lots, in a high&ate of cultivation, ,
and well set with red clover and orchard grass, from
which three heavy cropsofhay are taken every year. Ad
jacent thereto are two large«ud flouriftiing orchards; one
of wall chosen pea.l> trees, the other of apple and pear- P
trees, fele&edfrom the best nurseries in the state. Pro
perly detached l'rom the mansion house are extensive
roomy oflices of every denomination, viz a Kitchen and
Larder, house-keeper's room and Laundry, with a cellar
underneath for a variety of purposes, a llore-f oufe and
smoke house all of brick, a dairy and fpriog hbufe offtonc.
Stables for thirty horses, ami coach houses for f«nr car- '
riages. Also a large and well planned farm yard, with 1
barn and granary, a cow house, with separate Iftalls for 1
thirty-fix grown cattle; apartments for fattening veals. a
muttons and lambs; extensive Iliads for (heep-, and other a
arrangements for stock <if every description, with a large F
and convenient reeeptable for provender, from which they
can be furnilhed without being exposed to the inclemency r
of the weather. An overseer's house, blackfihith's shop, J
and quarters fufficient to accommodate in the best man
ner more than fifty labourers.
The arable lands are f© advantageously divided as to as- I 1
ford an opportunity of making a large quantity of Indian ]
corn annually , without bringing the field into fimilarcul- (
tare oftner than once in four years; eenfequently the c
lands may be improved by keeping up the iriclofurea during
the intermediate years, or may be bengficially fallowed for:
wheat and other grain at the option of the proprietor.
On the premises there is also a merchant mill with one
Ipair of best French burr l'tones, and one pair of Cologne ;
furnilhed with modern now leafed for the
unexpired term ot four years, at 1501 per annum, and all
grain for the use of the farm, hopper free, which is near
ly iool. more. x"he mill-and miller's house are built of ,
free stone, within a very small diftancex>f navigation,near .
to which are two or more valuable ilfhcries, and a well ,
ferry over the Rappahannock to the town of
Frederickfburg. The land contains iEexhauftible quarries ,
of free stone Bear-to the rivet, is-plentifully applied with
remarkable fine water and pofiefi'es a due proportion of ,
-meadow, which by having the command of water may
be considerably increased. The roads are gootf, and the
neighbourhood genteel and sociable. Infaft, exclufiveof
an improveableand well conditioned farm, the" value and
emolument inseparably conne&ed witn a mill, ferries,
quarries eligibly fltuated ; the profit? ariung
from an ice-house inferior to none in the state, and a gar
den of soup acres so abundantly stocked with vegetables
of all forts as to [be fully equal to the demand in market,
might be detailed many tother advantages, apper
taining to the fertility of these lands, which the fubferiber
conceives it unneceiTary to mention, being fully convinced
that when examined, it will be found to be a complete,
pleasant ari<l~fiealtny" Tciitfence, poneffing beauties anct
Convenience* fufficient to attraift the attention of any per
son defirousof becoming a purchaser.
The motive which induces the fubferiber to offer for
-sale an estate so Angularly beautiful and advantageous, is
a desire to become an inhabitant of Alexandria, where he
can with more ease attend to his interests in the neigh
bourhood ofthat city.
The purchaser may be accommodatedwith a few slaves
in families, either for plantation <or domestic use. A part
of the purchafc money will be required and' the balance
made easy, the debt being properly secured.
WILLIAM FITZHUGH.
Chatham, (Virg) Dec *l9, 1796 Juth —2aw2m
The Subscriber
INFORMS the Public, that he maoufa&uresand has on
hand for sale, a very gGneralaffortment
Saddles, Bridlas, Harness and Trunks,
As usual, also, Flkit BUCKETS of an excellent quality
all which h« will'difpofe of or, moderate terms at No - 88
• Chefuut Urect, I'hilaiielphid.
WILLIAM JONES.
Februaiy 17 fm&w3w
Will be fold,
On Wednesday, the 22d day of February, injbanty
At the Merchants'ColTce-Houie,
At H o'clock, noon.
A Lot, or Piece of Ground,
Containing II acres and TOO perches, near the
Blue Ball Tavern, on the Paflyunk road, four miles
from the city/if Philadelphia. This Lot commands a
view ef the rivers Delaware and Schuylkill, is nearly tr.c i«f
---«d with a good cedar post and rail fence, -and has a never
failing spring of frelh water riling in it—One acre of
■which is good bottom meadow—adjoining lands of Willi
ai* Bingham, Esq. Jacob Sink, and others. The ierms
of sale, one fifth part in ten days after the day of sale,
■when immediate poffefliou will be given, the residue in
payments agreeable to the purchaser, on paying legal in
terest therefor, and (living security for the fame, if re
quired. An indisputable title will be given, upon mak
ing the firll payment as aforefaid.
A Draft of said Lot may be seen at the Merchants'
CofTee-Houfe, and at the office of Alexander Power, No.
145 Ohefnut-ftreet, where further information may be
-had. Philadelphia, February 14 §t2j
F 0 R S A L E,
A very Valuable Estate,
CALLED TirlTT£ NHA M, iituite in the
township of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
7 1-1 miles fcom Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
new Weflcrnroad containing 130 a«re» of excellent land,'
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wped- *
]«fnd, and th« rell arable ef vh« firlt quality. There are
on the premises a good two story brick hoiAf, with 4 rooms
en-a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-wcß
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, (tables
'and other convenient buildings; a imoke-houfe and liuhk,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one 6f peach
cs. The fields are all in clover, etccept those immediately
and are lo bid oat as to have the advantage
of water in eaeh of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.
The situation is plcafant andhcalthy, iuid from the "high
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman'i
country feat.
The foregoing is-p.irt of the estate of Jacob Harmas
dcceafedj and •licrcd (or fa'.e by
Mordecai Lev/is,
OA, SI. law Surviving Executor
Treasury Department, '
September 28, I 7V^'
NOTICE is hereby given, that profiofals will be re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury -
until the expiration of the tirfl day of March next. >;n
--fuing, for the lupply of all rations which may he require'
for the use of the United State-, fr«i" W? firft day ot
Tune, 1797, to the thirty-firll day of May, 1798, but.
days inclusive, at the places and withi-i the distriCts h.re
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; *C Niagara ; at
Pjefque lfle; at tiandufey Lake, and on
Rirer; at Detroit; at Michilimaclunac; at Fort-Fratut- 5
lin; at Pittfliurglj; at Gitniluiati; at Fort-Hamilton; f
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfon; at Grenville; -at *j
Picque Town and Lorainies Store; at Fort Adams; at I
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place b«!ow Fort
Defiance "on the Miami River to "Lake Eric; at Fort (
Steuben ; at Fort Maffac ; at any place from Fort MaOac j
to the boundary of the United States on the river /
Miffifippi; at Fort Knox ; at ©uiatanon. \
If fujiplies (hall be required for any pods or places not
mentioned in this notice, all luch fapplies fliall be fur
liifhed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at tne
polls before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
bet ween the United States and the Ccatra&or.
The rations to be flip plied are to confi'.l of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound two ounces of brwfwi or iiour.
One pound two ounces of bee:, iK fourteen -ounces o!
pork or .-bacon. r
Half a gill of rum, brandy -r whiskey. (
One quart and half a pint of ftlt."J
Two quarts of Vinegar, ( er hundred rations
Two pounds of Soap, f
One pound of Candlet, J
The rations are to be furnifhed in 1 ach quantities, as that I
there shall at all times during she said term, be foffiii«nt
for the cenfumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De- '
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the tci'ir. of fix montl'u in I
advance, and at each of the otherpofts, lor the term of t
at lead three months in advance, in good and wholesome <
provifions.ifthefame fkall be required. It is to be ulij (
derltood, that the Contra,',!:or is to be.at the ex-enee and
rifle of ilfcirg the fnppliss to the troops at each post, and
that all loffcs fuftamed f>y the depredations of mi enemy, or .
by means of the troops of the United States, ftai! be pai« ,
for at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on j
the depositions of two or more persons of creditable ch«-
raifters, and the certificate of a cor.enil'.ioncd oflicar, as- j
certaining the circumstances of the loss, and the amouot .
ot th: ai tides for which compenfarion lhall be claimed ■
OLIVER WOLCQTT,
Secretary of trie Treasury.
. 'StMg 1
■Lancajler, Harrijburgh, CatdijU, Ship- \
p£n(burg and Sunbury
S T A G E S.
Thtf public are requcftedto take notice, that the part
nership which has for some time, fubfiflcd between Mathi
as Sl©ughof Lancaster, and William Geer, is now difiol- j
'! yed. But, not as M. Slough infinuates'to the public
[ wjthout jull cause ;as will more fulfy appear by a letter
5 on the fub}e<st from M. Slough t® W. Geer, dated the (
I 29th December lail. a recital of which is not now deemed
L necefiary. Any gentleman who wiflies to be more cir
r cumflantially informed of the merits of this business, by
- applying to W. have the perusal wf M. Slouch's
letter, and the# can be at full liberty to determine whe«
* ther or not Geer is n'ot perfeAly juftifiabie in attach
» ing himfelf to any other person in rhe prosecution of the
5 Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to ShippenlUurg,
" or any other place.
s Now from tbe liberal and generous support the public
» were pleased to confer on the firfl effort in this business,
William Geer, in conjun&ion with MefTrs. Reily, Weed
r and Wi f .mer, is determined to prosecute and carry it on,
with every care, attention and dispatch that a zeal to o-
the public can poflibly exert.
ct The above company, who are amply provided with
carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to render tnc
passage fafe and rommodieus, inform those who wifb to
r patronize and encourage the undertaking, that tlx/ can
ts take their feats at George Weed's, the figu of the White
c Horse, Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
" and Friday, to procecd to Lancaller, Harriiburg, Carlisle
and Shippenlburg. The fare as hitherto established.
■ s For the further accommodation ot the public, a Sfage
" f will start every Wednesday from the house of Samuel
e Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sunbury in Northumber
land county, every Thursday, and return from thence and
arrive at .Hairifburg every Saturday, so that passengers
_ destined for l*ancafteror Philadelphia, may proceed «c«n
Monday*.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 47, 1797.
N. B. This Line of Stages ftarfs from the house of
' William Ferree, in Lancaster, ®n every Tuesday and Sa
turday morning at 6 o'clock, proceeding to the westward;
and from the house of Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg
every Wednesday morning, on the fame evening arrives
at Patrick C.ociiran's in Shippenlburg, and returns from
thence on every Thursday : perfonnkig 3 the fa.me routine
daily as in its tour from Philadelphia. mvvf
, FOR SALE,
About i,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marlh
e and Beech, Creeks, Mifflin county, P'-onlylvania, ir,
four separate Patents. For terms ot lalf apply to
a Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, Smith Sfcond-liraet
- Tanuary 26. mwftf
- THE SUBSCRIBER
s WISHES to afcertaiSV, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, cr Brick-Layer,
II who quitted Ireland 11 1783, or 1784, and carae into
'his Country, ('tis fuppafed to Philadelphia) about
four years since, be living or dead. As this intelli
gences of the higheit importance, it will be thankful
( , ly received, by GEO. DAVIS,
No. 313, High-street
c Deaember 31. w&f tm
This Day is Publiflied,
BY Mess' Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the othei
price One Dollar and twenty-live cents, elegant
ly printed on woye paper, and hot-pressed, by John Thomp
fOQ,
e A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
=. The CONSTITUTIONS of the fc Vg ral States, .
\ . W "h ea . sll other, and with that of the United States:
> in Tables, the prominent features of caahCon
ftitution, and claffin; together their most impsrtant pro
e visions, under the several heads of administration ; n-ith
Notes and Observations. By William Smith, of South-
Carolina, L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
' United States. Dedicated to th® People of the United
■> States.
N. B. "A few Copies printed on an inferior paper, at
3-4thsof a dollar. February 6 mwf
ALL PERSONS
( 1 F-fquire, cither by note, bill, bond, book account, or
( otherwise, are rdjucfted to make- immediate, payment to
the fubferibers, without delay, and all persons having any
just demands against said Estate, are delired to exhibit the
fame for adjultment.
ANN KENNEDY > Adm«x.
Francis johnston; Adm-r.
Philadelphia, February a \vßw
' For Sale,
, By the Subscribers —In PENN-S1 REE I,
' 65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported fy the Eagle.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS. h.
Xt w&r
Nov. 30 |
_ —~ r —_ Ol
Red Clover Seed. i
Frefli red Clover Seed of the best quality, in bagsof
5 bulhels each '
; Madeira wine in pipes, fit for immediate use P
: Teneriffe wine in pipes, hoglheads and quarter calks J
: Ditto do. of firlt quality, for the use of private
L families ca
1 Coffee in hogsheads it
Jamaica spirits w
: Connecticut soap in small boxes fc
Window glass and Spanish fegars, and al
: Two trusks of best patent, plain and ribbed silk and fu
cotton hosiery, forlalehy ..
JOHN CRAIG. {J
1 February 1. M>ff&mtf
" ~ r CAMILLA, a
Or A Fidlure of Youth.
! By the authoress c, Evelina and Cecilia, to be com-
prised in five volumes, at half a dollar each, payable p
on delivery—'Printed at New-York, by -Mr. John p
Bull. b '
S CONDITIONS. a s
I. Handlome, neat type, pecfeiSlj new, is cm-
t plovect . f,
11. A volume, ft itched in blue paper, is intended l(
. ■ to be publifced ev&ry 2 weeks, till ■ ,:e five arc coin
a pitted; the firft and second are come to hand, and the „
f third is hourly expelled. Subscriptions are received,
e and Boots may be had of J. ■OKMROB, No. 41, £
J Chcfnut-ttreet- (
=* Mrs., D'Arblay (late Miss Burney) "the celebrated .
r authoress of this inimitable work, needs no eulogy
* to add to the laurels she has alraady acquirer" in the ;i
" literary world. Ihe strength of imagination and ele- 5
j;ance of style, diiplayed m Evelina and Cecil 1, will jj
: fuflkiently iecommend to every reader of taste and v
judgment, the peroral of Camilla. ti
It may not be improper to add, that the Qjicen of
England, after having perused this interesting .pi'bli- si
cation, presented Mrs. D'Arblay with a thnuLnd t
pounds sterling, as-a testimony of her approbation of p
" the work. l "
■January 25 mwf c
Brokers Office, and °
COMMISSION STORE. 3
;j(D. 63 South Third flr«et, oypafitethe national new BaukJ j,
" i QAMUEL M FR -UNCHS and JOHN VAN REED, t
. O have entered into co-parenerfliip, under the film of t
FRAUNCES & VAN RF.ED, in the bufmefs of Broker?,
j Conveyancers and Commiflton merchants. They buy and
feU on cotnmiflion every species of flock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
7 Money procured on deposits, &c. ?y:. "all kinds c?
writings in the conveyancing line, done with nCatnefs and
dispatch; awounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
mo ft cor re ft manner. Constant attendance will be given. '
_ They solicit a {hare of the public favor ; they are deter <■
" mined to endeavour to defcrve n.
• N.' B. The utmcil secrecy observed. c
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES, <
d * J Oh?. VA-N REED. 1
•Shilad. August 27, 1796. m&wtf :
1, " * ■ i.i. 1 in
D " 20 Guineas Reward. <
- h RANAW AV—tliw «n f-Ke aid Q&obar..
ic a Bark IStftJLATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 21 years
ro old ; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mixed green J
m coat, with a green velvet cape a#d oval -yellow buttons ;
te a itriped vest ; a pair erf dark spotted pantaloons, .and
iy whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change 1
[le hk name ana dress. He has been accuflomed t© driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be !
gre paid for fceuring him so that the i'ubfcriW may get him
icl again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by 1
r- Rchins Chathberiatne.
IC * Eafton, Maryland, >Jov. lb. 14 S-Jmaawtf
:rs 1 —•
5,11 Wants a Place,
AS WAITER in a gentleman's Houle, a young man
who has lived for a confiderahle-tinie in some of the
firft houses in the city, and whose chara<ster is sure; or
would engage with a single gentleman to attend on him.
1 Dircdionsleft at the New.York and Baltimore fiage
' office, No. 10, south 4tlj, near Market ilfeet, for R. H.
5 will be attended to. February 14
2 City of VValhington.
Schemk of tha Lottery, No. 11, for the lnipruvC.iTjClit
of the Federal City.
A magnificent ) jo,ooo. dollars, &?
dwelling-houf®, 5 calh 30,000, are 5 -S 0 " 000
I ditto 15,000 & calla 25,00 a 40,000
P 1 1 ditto 15,000 & oafh 15,000 ' 's«,cSeo
"* 1 ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 20,000
t0 I 4itto 5,000 Sc. calh 5,000. _ 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,008 >O,OOO
x calh prize of 10,000
a do. 5,000 each, are • jO,OOO
f 10 do. l,eoo - 10,000
20 do. 500 - - 10,000
D 00 do. 100 - - 10,000
•r, do. 50 - - 10,008
to 400 do. 25 . 10,000
ut Ijooo do. a© - 20,000
li- I5»°0o do. 10 - 4^0,000
Prires.
i3,a-6i Blanks.
50,000 Titrkets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
iei N. B. I o.avour those who may take a quantity of
nt- prix.e of 40,000 dollars will be the drawn
ip- ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in cither monsy
or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will'be received foi
, . any number not lels than 30 tickets. 1
is : 1 Ins Lottery will afford an elogant specimen of the pri
, u ? s t0 be er e&edin the City of Walhington—
o- 1 vA) beautilul defigus are already leleited for the entin
th fronts on two us the public squares ; from these prawipg
h- it ispropofed toered two centre and fourcoi-Rer buildiegs,
. e as soon as pollible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
ee t era, when complete, te the fortunate adventurers, in
the ma nerdefcribed in the Iciieme for the Hotel Lottery,
at A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
the necelTary expenses of prmt.ng, & the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
Dniverlity, to be creeled within the city of Walhington.
dy The real fecuritjes given for the payment of the Prizes,
or are held by the President and two Diredors of the Bank
to of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
ny mount of the lottery.
h e SAMUEL BLODGET.
»§• Tiekets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Feter Gilman, Boston :
of John Hepkixrs, Richmond ; and of Richard W«lls'
Cooper's Ferry.
SWAN N'S
Riding School\ Horft Academy Infirmary,
Adjoiniog the Pablic .Square, ■ Market btreet.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his sincere thanks to those gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, during .lis refidenc ta thu Citv, aud
flatters himfelf that the faccefs of his erfoits, in the numerous*
obstinate and dangerous d>feafes in dories; in which ne has »
been consulted, together with his moderate charges, will ic
ure their future favors and recommendation.
He now begs leave to intorm them and the public at large
that his spacious and commodious ptermfes, ere&ed for ihc
purpoles above de-fen bed are open for the reccptiou of dudil*
of either sex, who wilh to beinftrudted in the Art of Riding,
and the right method of governing their horses, so as to ride
them with cafe, elegance, and fafety—their horses will br
carefully and ex.pediiioully broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient tot he will of the riders ; the natira! powers
whicn are shut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity ot motion, and giving to that noble animal
all those beauties of action which providence ha& so bounti
fully bellowed on them.
Also, at his hofpitai. every disorder to which the horse is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art> confirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the above initiation has never been qneftion
ed, that u has long been wanted in this city, every gentleman's
stud willmamfeft, aM T. Swann as the ftift eftahlifher of
the vetercnary art, foiicits and lelies upon the fuppoit ofthat
public (which he isev r anxious in feiving) to enable him to
bring it to perfection. The idea of a iubfeription for that
purpose has beeu hinted b,y feve. al gentleman, who wilh to
promote the inllitution —the amount of each fublcrip;ion to
be returned by lervices in any of the departments; he prolcflesj
agreeable to the rate of charges stated in his hand biii. Such
ftiblcriptior is now open, and the fignaturcsof many refpeft^
able gentlemen already obpained. He therefore injorms hi*
friends and such Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he lhall in a few days take
the liberty of waiting uj>on them and folicvting their lupport
and prote£Hou.
N B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ltdiesfrod
Gentlemenwho wilh to be iiittru£ted.
Nov. 5. tth&f.
.No. 170. "
IjrJlrifl of Pennsylvania, to wit.
BE it reir.-rDbcreilj'that 011 the 2.4 th day of January
in the twenty-fiil> the independence of the United
Statos of Amcrica, John Thompson of the said diftrid,
hath deposited in tfyis ofVe the title of a ttook, the right
whereof he claims as proprietor, in the words following
to wit—
*' A Comparative Y» w of the Conftitutio«s of the
several States wrh each other, and with that of the
United States, exhibiting in titles the pr.omiaent feature*
of eaeh Constitution, and classing together their most
important provisions unde; the several fieads of adminif
tratiojr: with notes and obtervation6 By William Smith
of ll b. atid member of the Congref*
of the United States."
'ln conformity to the a& of the Congress of the United
States,'intituled "An A& for the encouragement of
! learning by It-curing the copies of maps, charts and hooks,
> to the authors and proprietors of such copies during th»
f tiiuiis-tWciu 1
» SAMUEL CALDWELL*
' Clerk of the-Diftridl of Pcnnfylvania.
» Feb. 1 ♦ law 3
r " e SAMUEL BICTIXUDET
j TJ ESPECTFULLY the Gentlemen
- *v Merchants, that he has this clay cpeneil the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFBI- HOUSE in the
city of P-hiladehhia.
The Subscription Room will he furmfned with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore,'together with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—-They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken sway 011 any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, IceCreams, and a
of French Liquors; together with the uluai reire foments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
g* Gentlemen may depend on Being uZecinTKTSdiitcd wit*»
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquort, and the mod
. approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries,
j The Larder will befupplied with the prime and eariieft
e produ&ions of the Season.
Large and small Par ties, orfingle Gentlemen, may he
c accommodated with BreahfalU, Dinners, or Suppers, at
n honrs moftxonvenient to themfelves —a cold Collation : .s
regularly kspt for canveniency, th* Billof had
; at the bar. ,
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhfd, aod
the utmost attention paid to cLeanliness, and every other
requisite.
$pF vmue,l Rieu ar.de. t will be happy to receive, and
n execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
[t large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
;r himfelf that nothing on his part Oiallbe wanting>o pre
fcrve that patronage withAvhich hciiasbeen so diuinguilh
>_ ingly uonored.
Philadelpliia, April to
Walhmgton Canal Lottery,
n°. 1.
lt XTTHEKEAS the State* of Maryland has authorise!
VV the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and filty dollars, for the purpose of c*lt"i»
a Canal through the City of Wathingcon, fro.i th >o»
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
.The following i» the SCHIiME of No. i.
Vi* -I Prize of 10,000 dollars, so.ooo
1 ditto 10,000 ro.ooo
TiSS.tr}
6 ditto J,OOO 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
ao ditto 100 a,OOO
55 ditto jo »,7JO
j750 ditto XI 69,00!$
To be raised for the Canal, »6,»?®
5850 Prizss, 175,000
116.50 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
The Cemniiffioners have taken the Securities re -
quired by the aforefaid a£l for tke punilual payment of
the prizes.
The drawiug of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as th," Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
n Such prize, as are not demanded in fii months after th«
drawing is finifhed, fball be considered as rcHntjuiibcd for
y the benefitef the Canai, «nd afpropriated accordingly.
» (Saned) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, of IX
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEOKGE VVALKEH,
ri WM. M.DUNC.INSaN,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of WaQiipjfton, Feb. 11. §
y. " * To be fold,
'' Thitimfof a Mulatto Qirl,
TTTHO has 10 years to Icrve, and is now about .7 years
a V » old. She is a hearty, ttrong gii 1, aad c»n have the
best *f recommeudationt from her owner-,
:8 » Apply at No. n© Union-llreet, next to the corner of 4th
'k February 18 f i tjt
a-
, PRINTED BY JOHN FEN NO
* —No. 119-
ls CHESNV T-S T R. E E T.
[Pricc Eight Dollars per Ann»m.J