ef tije and Philadelphia Dally Advertiser,
Number 1-5 R7. j
SALES BY AUCTION.
StJted Sales
For DRY GOODS.
f Forenoon —pdward IJox, No. 56,
.. , ji lO'-ith Front-fireet,
"" a - r ~\ Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
' South Front-street. ~
r Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
~ ri J Audlion, Nr> 73 fc*iA I'ront-ftreet.
J "■") Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
(_ 18 ( High-street,
n- j r< C Afternoon —Peter iienfon, No. 74
south Third-ftrcet.
~ C Forenoon—Jfdward Fox. •
"'J (Afternoon —John Connelly".
„ . , ) Forenoon—William Shannon.
r "J* \ Afternoon—John o»nnelly.
Saturday Afternoon —.Peter Henfon.
For Freight or Charter,
the good br,g
S Vt K E Y,
Isaac Vredenburg, Matter ; .
~ NOW lying at Clifford's whan, and In < ompleat
order to receive a carcjo. For terras please to ap- j
ply the Captain an board, or
John Slyrin,
No. Br, Arch-street.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
2000 wt.of double refined Saltpetre
60c wt. of F F Gun Powder
300 barrel' of Herrings
50 huflicls of Timothy Seed
150 cafe-" of Claret, firfl quality
Ana a quantity of Sherry Wine.
pt. *';■ - dtf
"" fiAVANNA SUGARS.
FOR S/tt)T,
1400 boxes and calks prime white Havan
na SUGARS,
On boarrVthe (hip Hamhurgh Packet, Silas
Swain, Master, now lying at Marcus Hook.
Por terms, apply to Capt. Swain, on board, to
Capt- Samui-l Smith, in Front, near Wal
nut street, or to
Philip Nicklin, (sf Co.
r- r~2_. Who offer the said Ship
Hamburgh Packet
For SALE or CHARTER.
She is 320 tons regiller', coppered to the bends,
fails remaHtab'y faft, and san be ready to re
ceive a cargtf in a few days.
Sept. at. dsw
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing from on board the
Brig A.?live, William Williams, Master,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale by
Jehu Hollingfworth 1$ Co.
Wilmington, Sept. if. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
'be brig GAYOSO, are
ry ®""° a ' e or Charter, lr, d
now ready to receive a vargo
on board, at Wilmington Amilv as above.
For Savannah,
j—c The faft failing ship,
SWIFT PACKET,
I >ATR,CK GmßßiMf Master,
Now lyingoppofre lb; mouth
of Frankford Creek, has hahdfemc aceomraoda
tions for pa(Teng<rs, and will fail on or about
the ift sfjOiHober.
For freight or palTige apply to the master on
board, or of the fublcribers it Frinkford, 5 I-a
miles from Philadelphia.
Na/bro & J. Fra^ier.
Frankford, Sept. 18. dtt(Kl
- HAMBURGH,
J t—- tTPHE Copper Bottomed Ship
LvSjy*-. I FAVORITE, J«HN
*jST Thompson, Mffter, now at
Blight's wbarf, and will be rea
to take in on Monday next,
part of her cargobcing engaged
arid reidy to go on board. The (hip is so well
known, that it is needless to describe her. She
is now in eompleat order. For Freight or Paf
ftge, please to apply at Mr. Jeremiah Warder's
Compting HouTe, No. 12, North Third street,
or to the Master on bord.
August 30.
For SALE,
On board the said Ship, S wedi(h Iron, aflbrttd
Hollow and' Window Glass, Demyjohns, Wrap
ping Paper stir Sugar Refiners, Rugs of I &a j
Quality. Please to apply as above.
wf&m4w
~~ "FORSALE,
BRF.T AGNES in cases
German Checks in do.
Catfibriek
'.! Phttillat *
Oznabripa
Gold and (ilver Watchet
Window Glass 10 by 8
Glass Tumblers in cSifes
Linseed Oil in calks, &c. scc.
George Petyiock,
103, High-Strut.
July 5. 3»w
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be and entered on immediately a large
and elepint house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
and on* dining room—the largest is 31 feet by
a6 —and two are so conne<3ed by folding doors
as to make but one. Also, five bed rooms, be
sides j in the garret, well finilhed for fervantj.
\There are ltables and a coach houfe,-with evry
convenience for a family. Enquire at No 29,
in North Seventh street, or at No. aiß, Arch
Street; •
Aug. lj. »aw3w.
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufactured as ufiial,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Button Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
•r by the pipe, quarter-caflc or gallon—suitable
for exportation or home confumptlon—
For Sale by
John Haworth.
No. 98 foyth Front ftrettj
PHIL ADELPH
To be, Sold at Public Vendue,
jf If not iefore difpofcd of, at private fed:)
f\N the iv«ft o( Dccc.T»ber next, a' fix
vy o'clock, in the evening, at the Merchants' Co
ffee House, in Philadciphia, Tho«ifai»d Nine
Hundred andThir y Nii»eH'»udrfd acres oT LAND,
now or lstc in rhe Coon y W*fh ogio <, and Coin
movwcalth of Pennsylvania, and >n the waters of
.Frelh and ,W/*eelivg Cricks and Ten Mile Run. —
These Lands ate fertile and well timbered, and were
patentced early in 17 *7 M except 3700. as or therea
bouts, which were paten'eft' 1 in 171)3. One foui.ih
of the purchase mof>ey to be at the time of sale,
for the rjefidue a c,rrdtt of ane, two and three months,
will l.e given, on inier?.k'and good fciurity.
Odober 6. 3 <wtS
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
'(lf not lefore difpofcd of at private fnlt)
ON the fint day of December, at fix
o'clock 111 the evening, at the MercKari!*!Cofi'ee
House, in Philadelphia, Twenty « c ix Se
van Huvdred Pi«.d Liohty acres of LAND, in ihe
Skate of Newt York, between the northern boundi
ot Penpf) lvania and the Sufquehanna, now, or late,
in the townfhipi of Hamden and Warren, ind coun
ty of Montgomery One iocYth of the purchase
money is to be paid at the time of sale ; for the re
sidue a credit of one, two, and three months will be
given, rn intcreft and gobd (ecurity.
O&ofle 6 3iwtS
The Norfolk Mail.STAGli.
\
THIS Stage start» from the GEOP.GE Tavern,
at the corner of Sccoßd and Arch iStrL-ets, in
Philadelphia, every Tut/Jay, TburfJay, and Satur
day, at 1 o'clock, in the trorning ; arrives at Ho
ver the firft day, at Si/owhill tl?e second day, at
Nonhampton Court Houle the third day, and on
the moruing of the fourth day the pajtngcra find
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolkfor Northampton feiry,
every Tucfdiy, I'hurfday and 'Saturday, and the
Stage (tarts from thi# ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wcdnefday and Friday ;Jput>up at Snow
Hill the firft night, at Dover the ad night, and ar
rive* in Philadelphia ill the evening of the third
day.
Thediftancc en this routs, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is lo miles less than on any stage route
between thole places.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
wdlingly engage to return the whole fare to any
palfenger, who, after having performed tbis route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
Anguft 11. dim.eotf.
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than sny other in
the City—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to 19 by 14,
By the single Box or Quanii'.y, may be had at the
vftore of the Subscribers, corner of Arch and From
ftreet.
James C. Iff Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, June 9, 1737* f i wmwftf
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt. Rhodes, from
Oporto,
Red Port Wine in pipes,hhds. and quarter cafics
<C cwt. Cork, for sale by -
Philips, Cramond, Sc Co.
July «J. 5
Will be Landed,
From on board the (hip AtSive, Capt.Blah,frow
Hamburgh,
10 bales white RulTu clean Hemp
» calks Clover Seed
for Sale ,by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth ft«et, No. 34.
June 16. $
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chests of a superior quality— \lfo,
too do. of Hyson*
Imported in the tVoodrop Sims, ajid for sale by
the fubferiber, corner of Second and Fine
street.
C. Haight,
Tune 11. eotf
Cedar Shingles.
THE fuhferiber ha* a quantity of 3 feet Cedar
Shingles rf a fupeTior quality, for sale at 13
dollars par thousand. .
William Hallow ell.
No. 193 North Third-Jire:t.
*}uly 47. eoiit
Imp or tad in the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-street,
Hvfon - }
Hyson Skin AS
Young Hyson C
Imperial J
April 20. co'f
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Amsterdam and Hamburg, !and for sale by
B. J. Bohlen,
A large assortment of fine French Cambrics,
Flatillas KuiliamdDutch lailcloth
Bnttanniaa Writing, post, and print-
Rouanes ing paper
Brown Holland Dutch calf fkini
Checks and llripes Prime madder
Ticklenburgs Shell'd Barley
Oznahurgs Looking glafles
'White fheetingi Hollow glafe ware
Diaper Slates
Brown rails Coffee mills
Umbrellas Brass kettlea
Hair ribbons Scythes and draw knives
Black and whitelaces Tovs assorted in boxes
Befl Holland Gin in
London particular Madeira Wine
July 24. < ra&thtf
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto ditto Claret in cases
Just received, and for Sale by
Rundlc td Leech.
Aug. U. lawtf
MRS. G RATTAN
INFORMS her friends.and the ppblic in general,
tfcat her house, No. 191, Market-street, will con
tinue open during the fieknefs.
Board and Lodging in a separate room, ten
dollars, in a dduble room, eight dollars.
For the convenience of those geutlemau who
have not thsir families in town, Mrs. ©rattan
will receive gentlemen to dine at half a dollar
a day. A*gujl 29 —6t
By John Fenno, N q/ 119 Cbefnut Street.
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum ,
C''.l'-e _
M-jcleir.i and Wine
Kcr'Su t by
Ja tn trs Yard,
No. —,Si.u;h i oiu'th-llreet.
Os. (. d ; w
CUSTOM -HO US
PhUcdaUtiia, W. ajil, 1797.
THE Merchants \Vb<»Bt this time pre'er hav
ing (heir vtfffcls and Merijtandiz* entered and
rlearec! at Chetter cr; Marcus Uor.k-, —are Uere
hy notified, I'iist in complunie with their <le
fire, and up.lll a lull conviil.on that the measure
will he mutually beneficial to thrm and to the
United stati-s. The rollciSlor of tVe cuflomshasV
made arrangements to eflaMifh fir fmne time"
branches of the cu("i< at those places,
wll ere every accommodation in his power will
he given to the merchants. cli w
TO BE S.OLC, -
And immediate po[fffion given',
A Convenient well finilhed Brick ( enement,
with a cook house andother out houfrf.fitu
atcd iua nlcafantp irt of the borough of Wilming
ton, in rhe fctite of Delaware—The lot of ground
ha« tarty, feat front on West-street, aud extends
through the square to Pallor -fireet, on which is
erecled a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLJIN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. jo.
Lately Publiflied,
In oiTt! vol." 8 vo. (price one dollar in boards) fold
by WILLIAM VOUNG, corner.*. Second and
Ch-ftnir flreets,
A Collcftion of Papers on thefubjeftof
Billious Fevers, prevalent ill tne United
States for a few years past.
Compiled by NOAH (VFBSTER, jun.
Containing letters from Docior'' Seaman,
BUcl. I ;iylor, Rimfay, Mot:foA, Mitch
ell,on contagion, Sic. &c.
■ a T» If. ?t
City Comtr.ijfioners Office,
August 29, 1797.
IN pursuance of an Ordinance of the Select and
Common Councils, palled the 2id day of May last.
Propflfals in writing will be received hy the City
CommilGoners for one month from the ill of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for. one
year to commence the firft day of January next, the
following public property of the city—
The wha-f and landing on Vine Street,
Also on Saffafras,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Bridge, with
the Scale and Filh Houfcs, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar underthe City-Hall.
The Tarern at the mfddle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto* '(except so much
thereof as shall be occupied by any buildings erect
ed for the use of the Collector of tie Tolls, or b«
neceflary for the toll-gates.)
Aug. 3 jtawim.
LOST,
ON the Paffyunk Road, between the Blue Ball
and the city, a Fowling Piece, with a brass
barrel and silver fight ; on the plate of the butt are
the letters " Jamaica, Q. 99" —and on the barrel
near the lock » London ' >nd thATower (lamp.
Whoever will return the aid piece to Job* BennarJ,
at the sign of the Blue Ball on the PafTyunk Road,
or the office of this Gazette, Ihall receive a reward
of Four French Crowns, .
•Sept. 12. *3t
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an al<2 or-CopgrcTb of the
Univd States of America, passed at Phila
delphia, tie »Bth day of May, lV)h ; laying du
' tits on Carriages forth© conveyance of perfcwis,
which (hall he kept by or for ai|y person, for his
or her own use, ort- let out to hire, or for thf
conveyance of pafTengcrs, the firvcral d.utirs nul
rates following, to wit :
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every Clariot,ll dpls.
upon every Poll Chariot, 12 dols.
upoft every PoltChaife, 12 doh.
upon every I'llaeton, with or without top,
9 dols.
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having pannelwork
above; with blinds, glafles or curtains,
9 dolt.
upon f»ur wheeled Carriages, having fra
med polls and tops with Heel fpriugs, 6
dols.
upon four wheeled Cwriages. w<th wood
cn,.or iron or jackt, t dols.
upon Curricles with tops, 3 dols,
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel topcarriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or
iron springs, 3 dols.
For and upon all other tw» wheel carries, 2 dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed pods and tops, and reiling up
on wooden spars, a dols.
The Collectors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Diftria of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September B-xt, for
the puipofe of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
Germantown ; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efq.
in the County of Montgomery ; and at the house
of James Chapman, lifq. in the County of Bucks ;
of which all persons possessed of such Carriages are
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and fcreigh dif
tillcd spirituous liquors, that licences will he grant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the busi
ness of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than 20 gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorised to grant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpedor of the Revenue of the firft fur
' vey of tWs piftriifl of Pennfylvaitia.
Office o< Infpeifitio* at "> j lm
Germantow, tlth Sept. 17.9T- )
IMPORTED
lu the (hip America, James Ewing, master, from
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands
White Piatillas
Ticklenburgs
Coarse Linens
Tapes
I in cases.
Glass TuhAlers j
TOSi SALE BY
George Pennock.
14. ' 3aw
A:
TUESDAY EVENING, OCTOBER n, 1707
To be Let"*at a moderate Rdnt,
"j lIE principal fart of ft HOUSK, «v.thln a
I «»f th<* CofTee-h. ufc, wuVfh lut®
b'-en d ft»r ihe foui n>onth«, coi liHi'ip
of :i tod uiid parlour, two bedrooms
and a drefl»n«*room, two pirrets, ki r ch,sj, wool
and .e : ar, ail in excellent orc.er, <\t for tiie
immediate reception of a firalV famib/. None need
apply hut tiiofe who are iefyecla 1 l«» .and regular.—
T.tiquir - .tt ihj oificj of this (Jailtte,
Odfohpr 9. dtf
Mr. L AIL S O N,
WITH an intention to rcn.lrr ferv-ce, and unde
ceive those Performers, who during his ahlcnr«- Mr.
Jiymorjd has tHousrh| proper to t nj/age, thii<Ks it
would be wrcrtig jn him not to inform t;:off rfitt
are enpagcd v that it 1* withou his approbi.rion, ard
that he will not be in any way anfwerahle for Mr.
Jayntond's enga^emr-nis
PHILIPPE LAIi^ON.
Alexandria t Scbt. If, 1797. 6t.
~ THE MAYOR'S OFFICE
is kept, for the psf.sext, at T.IE
CliV HALL.
i'ept ?.
The Philadelphia, Atfion, and Tuciertun
MAIL STAG E.
rli£ proprietors beg leave to inform the public, that
they Lav: eji,:blifted a Stave between Philadelphia,
Atfion, Batflo y Hampton, SpcedrucU t and A'tfrtha Fur
nace , Wading River flitting rniU, and the toit nrf 'Tuck~
erton, in Nexv-yerfey, to go once a iveek, arid areprovi~
dei uiih gocd a comfortable carriage, ard a care
ful driver, for the cotir*c\ar<,e of the mail, pnjfrngerj, ard
goods. The Stage"iv(ll fart every ThutfJay, at IO
o*ctock, A. £'l f r *n M.>. Daniel Ccober s perry, and
lodge that night at Bodine's, at Longaccmiug ; and
on on Friday, at 6 o*c!oci s P. Ai. wrivc at C.leb E
vans'*, inieeper, in Tinker tor., dif art from the city 5 4
miles % {from the Atlantic 6, u>;Jf> om th: Eajl Grxtfng
Plains 7mi Us) where art I accommodations for tra
vellers, and tifberi mrrotnmoj'fjus andf&fe parage Ivats
provided to eotxrey pAjfcngers to Capt. William IVar~
ringtcn s house, on 'fycker s If and adjoin inihg the At
lantic, where are good accommoaations, and a Convenient
place to lathe ; the f ortfman rvbn ivifhes to regale hirfelf
toith fowling andfjhing, may at this place be highly gra*
tifitd x there being at almofl every fcafn of the year fowl
a idf.fb in abundance——The Stage on ite return, farts
from the aforcfiid C, Evans's in Tucker ton, every Tues
day, at 6 o'clock, A, A/, breakffis at John Bodine's, at
Wading River Bridge, lodge that night at Longacoming,
and at I o'clock, P. M. on Wednesday, arrive at the
aforefaid Cooper's Ferry. It is presumed thai no route of
an equal diflance will be less expenfve, or furnijl thf tra
veller with a greater variety of amusement, as he will
not only have a pleasant fail to the atlanl.c from Tucker
ton, but have the euriofity of feeing on the road thither a
number of capital furnaces and forges, and one fitting
mill, in complete order, and at work ; gentlemen, too, who
are owners, or faflors, of any of the aforefaid iron works,
are solicited to encourage and support this sage (by which
they can be so well accommodated) the continuance of which
will much depend on theiir aid. The rates of passengers
and baggage are as follows : For a passenger from the
aforefaid Daniel Cooper s Ferry to Tuckerton, including
14 baggage, Two Dollars ; for way passengers
per mile, Four Cents—lsO lb. of baggage equal to a pas
senger. Pof age of letters, newspapers, life, will be
agreeabl *0 law.
JST. jtx.& .' e mail croffesfrom the Old Ferryi
THOMAS WARDLE & Co.
Tuckerton, Sept. 28. Oil. s.—lawtf
To be Sold,
And immediate poffefllon given,
THAT elegant feat, called BLOOMS BURY, *hc
refidenee of U e late John Cox, Efq with a
bout to acres of Land, fitunte on the Delaware, ex
tending from the mouth of A flat ancle creek, to Tren
ton ferry. The manfton house is a hand Tome well
conftruAci brick building, 50 . y 40 feet, certain
ing four room* on each floor, witfe excellent cellars,
arid a two {lory brick kitchen. Among th* out
!>uildings are a, fione coach house and ftablcs, fuf
ficienfc t* contain fix carriages and ten horfls, and
a (lone cow house, upwarcisof 100 feet in length.
There is also a tlone farm house with corn c«*ibs,
waggon house, &c. &c. The whole of t:,epremt
fes propoled to be fold with this feat, from their fito
arion and improvements, are such as to be worthy
rhe attention of any gentleman wishing to ntire
from the city. There are ?lfo about 25 acres ad
joining the above, which will be d vided so as to
accommodate the purchaferi. Also, 100 acres ad
joining the town lots on the east the ilrget
leading from Trenton to Lambertori, which will
be fold together or in lot*, as may best suit the pur
chaser, and 230 acres of woodland, two miles
the above land, which will also be divided if re
quired. The term* «f payment will he made easy,
and an indifputabie title given. For further parti
culars enquire of Mrs. Cox, No. i44,South Fourth
street, Philadelphia, John Stevens, Lfq Hoboc
ken, Mathias Barton, Esq. of Lancafler, or .the
fuhferiber at Treriton.
MASKELL EWING.
Trenton, Sept. 25, 1797.
Sept. 30. dtf.
At the Federal Blast Furnace,
In Carver— fer Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
M 1 LLS.
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THEIR superiority cortfijti in being free from
holes and boney-combed places, ivhicb are com
monh found in rollers cajt in sand, or clay
moulds. Theft patent rollers are cajl in iron
moulds, pre-vioujly heated, andivill be found to
be moredenfe, solid and durable than any rollers
heretofore used. Another important advantage
they) have over others, is, that the necks require
no turning, but are immedaitely fit for use, and
from their accuracy, run <with less friction, and
require less water to mate them perform their
vjork. 7 hey may be had by application to the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Good
ivin, or ofMeffrs. Thatcher and Hay ward
Bo ft on, Aug. 31. Sept. lg. §(>t-
This Day is Published,
BY Mess. Dobfon, Cqjey, Campbell, Ric , and the
othci Book fellers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
EJeganty printed on IVove paper, and Hot
prefftd,
By fohn Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
claffmg together their most impertant provisions,
under the several heads of adtniaiftration ; with
Notes and Observations.
B t WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States. .
DadicateJ to the People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copies prinud oc an inferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof 2 d sllar.
Thomas Herman Li-urn p ,
North !»ifth tlrct. corner of ?forth alley,
HAS FOR SALE,
T^XCFLt.EI 4 ' r ri'vl bt;ijr',cui'.x Wine in crJV; .n<i
i-i boxes, f:x years old
VV hire C oaves W me la cufki
f irk Ir-n'mnrs
RufftJ Sail Cl.ths
Ravens' Puck
B:ijr H»r«itrn
He Hi axis
Diapef atVd T.:Uc Cloth
P.ropty .
C«fijftron 'Jermian Clorh
n afTortmentof black coloured Ribbon*
Fine German Laces
About twelve tons Fuflh clean Hemp
Ciovc-r Seed . >
Sff&p* in fni&Uhoxet, for family ufr
O'gfi ) —}iw
THK> JV/iY
Awl for file by 7 NOMAS DOB VON, at the
Stone House. No. 4r t south Second flr<?et«
EVENINGS at HOME.;
OR.TIIE JUVFNII.F. BUDGET O'i'ENFD. .
Confiiling of a variety of MifocilHiucn* Pieces' fo'r
the fnffcru&ioo and amufernent of YOIJM»i J?K£-
fiONS—Six Volumes V-audfomely printed and bound
up in two volumes, jirice Two Dollars.
Tlie variety and excellence of thefs pieces are
such, that the book need.-, only to be known to b«
univerfalJy eft cenuut one of the mod valuable pub
lications th t can H' put into the banc's of young
persons.
" Uelijrhtftit task to rgarthe tender thought,
To teach the bow t>» shoot,
To pour th« frefh inflru<slion o'er the mind,
To breathe th* enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The generous ourpofe in theglowjng brtaflr.**
Thomson.
Aujrufl: 24. RIWI4W
" THUIi VIS PUBLISHED, ~
iy'THOMAS DOBSON, at the Stone Koufc,
No. 41, foul!. Second fireet,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Yeunr Ladies, an improving and in
terelling fubjefls.
Tranflated.frqm tlie Dutch of Madame it Camion
with alterations and improvements,
Printed en fine paper, and neatly hound }
Price one dollar.
AM IDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales sf extraordinary didrefs, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul, - ' and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
he ignorant of, this little book comes forward to-fo
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, ths proper, b'eaufs
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
.charader is exhibited in an interfiling point of view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publisher was fomuch pleafedwith the peri*-
sal, that he was persuaded he (hould do a pleating
service to the community by fending it ill o circu
lation. Augu ft 14 —mw4w
To Majlcri and Pilots bringing up Vejfch
from Foreign Ports to this City.
T TTHereasfundry infringements have lately been
VV made on the laws of this state fey the pre
venting pestilential or infectious diseases, eithtr
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publith the following ex
tracts from the law» of nd April, 1794, 7th aßd
Bth fe&iom.
\
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794.
ExtraS of an aH for feevring the city and port
of Philadelphia from the introdußion «f pejl 't
lential arid contagious diseases.
Se&t. 7. And be it further enafled, that evety
matter or captain of any thip or vefTel coming from
sea (vessels actually employed n the toattuig trad«
excepted) and bound to any port or place within
the jurifdi&ion of PeanfylviSma,iha ! l taufe his thip
or vefTel to be brought to anchor,or otherwise flay
ed in the ttream of the river Delaware, oppsfit# to
the Health-Office on State-Island aforefaid, and
there taremain until he shall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of heal h from the Resident Phy
ftcian. And it, previously to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any matter or captain (hall
fuffer histhip or vefTel to approach neartr than the
said Health-Office to the city of PhUadelphia, or
thai! land, cause ortuffer to be landed, or brought
on shore, at any place or port within this Com
monwealth, or at any other port or place, with the
intent o( being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any person or persons, or any goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving such bill of health
or certificate, he thall neglciS or rcfufe to deliver
the sam» to the Health-Officer, such matter or cap-'
tain shall forfeit a«i(l p*y, Tor each and every such
offence, thA fumof five bunbred dolw.rs.
And the captain or matter of ev«ry thip or ves
sel thall fend a fafe and commodious boat to bring
the phyficiar. on board, and thall in like manner
tonvi-y him back to the Health-Office, after he ha«
concluded hi* official examination ; And while he
is making such examination, or in 1 afe any fubfe
quertt examination by the Health Officer or Con
futing Physician, agreeably to the directions of
this aiS, the matter or captain thallexpofe or eaule
to beexpofcd to thefearch of the Rdident Phyfi
cian,or of the Health Officer and Consulting Physi
cian (as the ease may be) each arid every part of the
thip or vet Tel, and tha i present to his view each
and every person cr persons on board thereof, and
and thall also true and fatisfa>Slory anfvvers make
to all such quetlionS as the Resident Physician, &c.
at the time of examination thall atk relative to th»
health of any port or place fr»m which the thip or
vessel failed, or has fioce touched at—the number
of persons on board when the thip or vessel entered
00 her voyage—the number of persons that have
since been landed or taken on board, and when
and whererefpeflively—what perfoas on board—
s they have been during the voyage, or the 11, at
the time of examination, be infe&ed with any pes
tilential or contagious diteafe—and what is the pre
sent state and condition of the purfons on boaM
with refpeit to their health or diseases. And if
any miller or captain thall refufe to expose as afore
aid, to the search of any of the officers aforefaid,
it if he shall conceal ary ftck person, or in any other moo
ter deceive the proper officers aforefaid in his <xs!-:vcri y
uch captain or matter,for every such offence, thall
forfeit and pay the sum of Five hundred dol
lars.
Sect. 8. And il"asy person or persons whatfo
evcr (the Resident Physician, &c. excepted) thall
go on board any vessel, befare the malier thereof
has received a certiScate of health in the manner
directed, every rfon to offending, thall pay the
Uin Of ONE H 111* UK ED DOLLARS
IT being ahfolutely necessary that the forejroing
TeSions should be punctually complied with, the
fubferiber, in compliance with histluty, mutt ex
ait A rigorous observance of the lame, or else b«
under »!i« ncceffity of putting the laws in force.
Wm . AI.I.EN, Health Officer 0/ the
Port of Philadelphia.
JttJjr T4- , W '
J«Jr *4.
IBWf
%
rvcti'Ms xnHZfje <3&sette.
PItILAb ELP H IA ,
Tu~sn.\y evj-ntko, octo»™ ~0 .
Fur the Gazette rf the United Stajf.s.
PI rmHthia; Oflolcr
Ui. B. WYNKOOP.
ffromyetfeaav' s Caxrfte.
Tint the disease which proved so mortal
in riiiladelpliia in the finnrr.er' and autumn ,
of 1703, was the fame as that ctferihed byj
Dr. Chifnolip, he remarks, "is established b\)
the following Gift : " A vefftl belfvngitig t«
Philadelphia introdnce'd the difcafe into St
Pierre, Martinique, in Oftober 1793. Aid
ther veful, isotn I\v.v-Xjondon, touched at*
Pierre, in her way to Grenada, and re-i
reived the infection : On her arrival at'
Grenada, in February 1794, the fck were
put under my charge; and I found the lif
cafe to be my old acquaintance the md'r'-
uant pestilential f.-ver."— (Page ;di.) °
I iiat the two Qifeafes were the fame in
h : ''d, is also demonftratgd from the defcrip
-1 t;on the symptoms, and from the cafci an
wtxed to Dr. Chifliolm's puhheatioti:
" 11 " yellow fufTufion of the eyes ana
' v.n in Ui:j c'ifcafs, wl;c;i it prevailed at
Grenatfii, which was by no means a general
Bccurrciu't 1 , appeared about the Cth, 7th,
or 9th day.''—Page 129.)
This circtirnftance, and the d.Tease being
contag-ous, Dr. Chifliolm thinks are proofs
that this disease was not the fame as the yel
low fever which generally attacks ftrar.gers
on their arrival in the Weft-Jndies. But
from the black vomitting which occured in
molt of the cases which proved fatal, and
its resemblance to the yellow fever of
'the i(lands in all its moil efien'tial and leading,
symptoms, I judge those (irciunftances alone
will uot juftify his conclusion.
The less frequent occurrence of the yellow
Uiffufion at Grenada, in 1795, was, proba
bly, owing to a less than ordirfory difpofl
t'.on 01 the inhabitants to bilious complaints
that fe'afoh, than sometimes happens in o
tners. For it is a common observation that
when inflammatory complaints occur in Au
tumn, they arc niore disposed to have re
mifiions, .and are frequently accompanied
with bilious evacuations, efpeciajly in level
filiations with moist foil, thau at any other
fcafon or in any other situation.
I have also frequently observed in Phila- '
delphia, that when the small-pox becomes 1
prevalent in the autumnal feaYon, when the :
weather is calm and sultry, that bilious
symptoms art coijimon, and the patient some
times becomes afTc£ted with yellowness ie
fembling the jaundice.
Neither yellowness of the forface, nor
black vomiting are efTential, but Accidental
circumstances in the malignant fever arising
from human contagion, as is evident from
numbers recovering from the disease,
othersdying of it, without exhibiting ei
ther of these symptoms.
The account publi/hed by Df. Brice of
the origin and progress of the TellowFever,
which prevailed on board the Bufbridge East
Indiaman, while failing within or near the
Tropics, in 1792, an analysis of which is
given in Duncan's annals of medicine, for
1796, also democftrates that It is the ofF
fpring of human effluvia, rendered pestilen
tial by being retained in somites in confined
and heated air. >
Thomas Storey, in his * urnal, and Jo
seph Gough in his History of the Quakers,
relates that a malignant fever prevailed in
Philadelphia in 1699, introduced from the
Weft-India islands.
Dr. Mitchell who sent a dcfcriptios of
the Yellow Fever, as it appeared in Virginia
in 174 1 a "d '47, ascribes it to fpecific con*-
tagion and mentions that it has been twice
brought into Virginia by hisMajefty's fhipis
of war !
Among other fymptorr|s he mentions " a
yellowness of the eyes, and all over the bo
dy at the height of the diteafe, unless pre
vented by colliquation or critical difchat--
g«-" t
Dr. Ijeamy, in the physical cflays of E
dinburgh, informs us -that the Yellow Fever
which has prevailed at different periods at
Charleston, South Carolina, was always tra
ced to some infected person recently arrived
from the Weft-Indies. ,
In 1741 it was introduced by a chest of
wearing apparel which had belonged to a
person who died of it at Barbadoes—(Lind's ,
effayon fevers and infection.) It also ap
peared in Philadelphia in 1747 —In 1762
it was introduced by a mariner from the Ha
tar.ua, according to the notes of Dr. Red
ir.an.
This disease, after an interval of 33 years 1
again made its appearance in Philadelphia. 1
the latter end of July, or beginning of Au- j
gust in the year 1793 ; and from the follow- 1
ing circumstances appears to have been in- 1
troduced by infeftion imported from the
Weft-Indies, though Dr. Rush in oppofir |
tion to all former experience and obfervati- (
on ascribed its origin to the effluvia of da- 1
maged Coffee, upon a wharf to the <
open air in the neighbourhood where the di- f
feafe firft made its appearance. i
" The sloop Amelia, Wm. Williams, t
(fays Mr. \ anuxem, owner of the vessel, in 1
hjs letter to Mr. Carey, published in the
Federal Gazette) from Borgne, (a small t
portofSt. Domingo) to Philadelphia sprang I
a leak : the whole of her cargo being Cos- d
fee in bags, the linen soon rotted with the t
fait water, and the bags bursting ; the cos- p
fee difperftd itfelf into the hold of the vef- r
fel, which rendered it impofiible to remove I
tjie ~ water, which remainiiyj there such v
length of time, could not be otherwise than b
offenfive. The Amelia arrived here the si
23d of July, was unloaded on the 24th. fl
Several hundred weight of the most darna- ci
ged coflee were thrown into the dqck ; and ei
on the 30th, 98 bags were fold on the m
whavt by Richard Footman, Audtioneer. tr
On the lit August tiic vessel left the wharf al
to heave dorm. Whsr; the sloop winch had
; the coffee on board landed her cargo, no'
! smell whatever was observed, but after iflte
j was unloaded, clearing the hold of tjie bilge
i water occ'afioriet} a most intolerable stench
| for 2 Or 3 days. Soon after this the captain
aftd five hands (3 of which v.itre negroes)
• took tick, but they all recovered in three
n ->■ ■ ■ s FTrUc~~conl\nu!(l.)
/ For the Gazette of tbe\ United Siateu
MR. fkniho,
! A ftatrment of fafrts which I gave to the
'pnhlic a few days finceand which was copi
> ed into your paper, his been attacked in
your gazitte of last evening, by a writer
c who himfelf Paracelsus, in a manner
both illiberal and unmanly. Whenever this
person chufes 10 come forward with his
real name, I am ready to prove to him that
•" i I have neither " falfely nor perversely quot
ed" the authors whose names I have men
-5 \t;oned ; but I do not intend to enter the
|i(ts with one who deems it necefTary to in
trench himfelf behind a borrowed signature.
\ I am Sir, &c.
FRANCIS BOWES SAYR£/
OSober loth, 1797. S
MR. FEN NO,
I observe with concern that a daily print,
' which, bur a few months pad, came oiit
1 with profefliotis of animadverting upon those,
' whose mifconduft should lay them open to
the lath of cenfurc ; has, lately become a
? mere fink of personal abuse and scurrilous
s remarks. I fee that even charily has not
escaped the unmerited attack of this, now
s vindictive paper ; for not later than last even
-1 ing, is a fhameful abuse of a poor man, by
'j name Wm. Bell, who is reported to have
r given 50 cents to the " widow and.father
lefs" from the small pittance which his daily
■ labour acquired. It is not for man thus
e hnrfhly to adjudge his neighbours deeds !
We have too great need of mercy ourselves,
v to drive to withhold it from our fuffcring
fellow-creatures ! An unbiassed and ijppar
tial Judge, will on a future day give to each
s his due ; and doubtless in the distribution of
rewards, the bright example of \.h\ipoor but
4 worthy man, will not be forgotten ; for
our Saviour's tcilimony in favor of the wi
" dow and her mite, is enough to (hew, jhat
this was a most pleasing and acceptable pre
sent to the Almighty. If the author of
r the remarks alluded to, poffefs'd the smallest
. portion of chnjlian charity, he would blush
at the imputations he has cast upon it. "
s I I believe that the purest examples of cha
e ; rity will more generally be found among the
3 poorer class of people ; who feel themfe/vet
- the misery they relieve in others—and hence
" necessarily make a facrifice in so doing ;
whilst the opulent and rich who give only
r from their abundance, cannot be entitled
to an equal share of praise. However, from
r whatever motive charity arises, and in what-
J everfhape it may appear, it should be held
Vj alike sacred from contempt and obloqwy.
" J I shall conclude by recommending to the
writer of the remarks alluded to, in the
' words of that holy religion whicbjjfic pro
> | feffes to refpeft—" go, and do toou like
t wife"—for " charity covereth a multitude
1 of fins."
A FRIEND TO HUMANITY.
r Germantoixm, 08. sth, 1797.
M*. FENNO,
' In Brown's Gazette of Saturday, I fee
a publication by a Dr. Sayre, setting forth
- his great success in the cure of the yellow
> fever. If this gentleman means to establish
1 his own fame he proves enough ; but if he
means to hold a wing over that of our friend
Sangrado, he proves too much. He advo
f rates blood-letting in the frjl days of the
' disease : Sangrado begins and e»ds with it.
" He applies mercury in order to produce
: salivation : Sangrado in order to purge.
' Now, if Dr. Sayre is as candid as he ap
pears to be, let him examine fafts, and let
1 him try the use of mercury without blood
■ letting, and he will confefs that the latter
• does injury and only retards the operation
■ of the other. I shall conclude these remarks
on Dr. Sayre's letter with observing, that
I was surprised to fii\d Diemerbroeck quot
' ed as an authority for copious bleeding. I
■ Ihe following is an pxtraft from that au
■ thor: " lUud en'wi obfervavimus, ft peftt
correptis vena feearetur, il/oj ad unum omnes
certo ei cito obeijfe."—Lib. iii. p. 154.-J-
Which, I take it, means in plain
that " those who were bled in the plague
died to a man, and that quickly."
T. T.
From the VIRGINIA HERALt), bV.
It has often ftruckmewith astonishment,
that among the number of fubjedts intro
duced in our public prints, so little regard
is paid to the most important, and efTential
to our interests, as a republican people ; I
mean the equalization of mankind. * 1 "
But, whilst even our best patriots are
taking a philanthropic view of the numerous
countries which surround us, and gazing
with anxious concern on the disastrous
events which have and still continue to de
solate those quarters of the globe, is it not
matter of amazement to observe their inat
tention to a fubjeft which more immediately
concerns them ?
When we view with horror and indigna
tion the oppreflive system introduced by the
Norman conquest (the feudal system) and
discover the numerous ills which resulted
therefrom, what can it be but that base !
principle felf-;ntereft, which prevents our 1
regarding the situation of our country ? J
How far preferable was the situation of a j
villein, who could claim and who could not I
be deprived of the right to « part of the 1
fruits of his labour, to the poor American 1
slave, who, after having laboured almost in-
ceffantly, from morning till night, yea, i
';ven fomeVimes longer, is compelled to sub- a
mit the fcllowance of his meals to the arbi- i
trary will of an unfeeling master ! Yet,
although \ve r hcld the farmer condition' 1 in l
' abhorrence, we ri'ffialu in a perfect flats of
' apathy with refpeM to the latter. Whillt
- lam now writing, mv imagination paints
8 the GtuatMQ-bf a pregnant woman, Itfbour
-1 '"g in the field, and expo fed to the fcorch
i nig rays of the summer's fnn, her tyranrii
) cal overseer ftandiag.by her and wavino; his
mighty cowhide, tht inJignia of his office ;
I fee the poor foul fcized with tHe qualms
niciu'e.) t to one in her situation ; yet what'
can fnc do ; either continue to labour mi/fl
the acutenefs of the paw precipitates her
to the ground, or fubmi\ to the cruel ftrfpes
■' °f the urirelentihg tyrant, on the difcovVuy
- of the fmallell iiitfcrmiffion t>f her exertions,
i And this is not merely the phantom of ittia
r filiation, but a description of a situation,
r which alas, top often K&ually occih\.
s But, 'unhappy refre&ion ! some of our
s befi republicans' (ff we may believe their
t prqfcflions) rft-ij our greatest tyrants ! Is it
no? aftomfhircg to fee men who are daily
- preaching up liberty and equality, and pro
e fefring to be friends to the levelling of dif
• ttnftions, yea, inveighing with great acri
mony against the oppreflion and tyranny of
Icings, repair to their farms, and there, for
the smallest offence, exeicife the most wan
ton and flagitious atts of cruelty upon those
in fubjedlion to them ? And yet this state
ment is verified by tho conitlft <6f many,
, within the circle of my small acquaintance,
t What exetife then can be offered in juftifi
, cation of this inhuman and cowhrdly con
> dust ? None I imagine, unlef. ft be that
a hackneyed obfervatioti, that they are a de
s generate race of mapkind, and totally irica
t pable of improvement. But mart of wif
r doin, be cautious how you use this argu
ment, fince so many instances can be ad
-1 I duced to disprove it.
Let us then Contrast the fituatfon of a
- state, to w
lyfh slavery is a ftrarigcr, to one
r wherein it exists. In Pennfyivar.ia the in
-5 duftrious farmei l , featcd in a comfortable
- cabin, bcholdn with pleasure his beloved
, spouse cooking the produft of their mutual
C labour, after regaling themselves with,
they retiit"to bed 1 ! hnving offered up to God
i their devout thanks for the blessings they
f had received. Here no terrors of imagina
t tion prey upon their minds, and disturb their
r reft; what they have was attained by their
- own industry, and no one feels disposed to
t deprive them thereof. But in a state where
- slavery exifls, mark the difference. The
f discontented slave, conscious of his inability
t to p'eafe, feels no other stimulus to labour,
> but to fleer clear of the bitter lash, and in
that but seldom fuoceeds; whilst the unfeel
ing master, lolling in the midst of luxury,
J Jcnows no other emotions than those of an
' ger and chagrine at the incompetency of
their labour, ( t« support his unbounded de
; fires; and evsn the hours of reft are disturb
ed by a knowledge of his anger; for the
I age of reason is at'hand, and mankind can
1 be kept no longer in ignorance. Let us
then endeavour to evert the blow, by timely
I attention, and let us no longer, profefiing
ourselves republicans, keep those in fubjee
tioii, who have an-equal claim wi th ourselves
to that most inestimable of all bleflings, li
■ BERTY. JUVENIS.
Tappahannock, Sept. lßth, '97.
DEDHAM, (Mass.) Odtober 3.
A great criGs in European affairs is drawing; nigh.
The materials fetm to be every where fermenting
for a louder cxptnfion, and a wider ruin, than b:-
fore. Yet one wr uM think enough had herti al
ready done in the way of confufion and deftru&ion
to tire those who do not love buftl': and to fatisly
those who do. This war has, beyond example,
defolatcd th« ear'h, and reddened a great deal of
its once green furfacv— it is to be rc-peopled and
made fruitful agaiu by a multitude, whom
have iHnde familiar with blood, and unfamiliar
with evil order and the mild social virtues. F.u
ppe, when nt peace, will be thronged with rob
!'CT9 and alTaffins. beeg-ars and cripples \merica,
happy in the enjoyoient of peace ami liberty, will
sympathize with the unhappy of Europe, and wilh
them all the relief that will make the-i contented
to (lay at home. For no refle&ing friend of this
country will desire to fee the natural growth of its
found and healthful population swelled into a mon
ilrous increase by the rulhingin amr-ngus of the
discontented and licentious dregs of foreign na
tions. Our growth is already quick enough, our
lands will be worfc fettled, if they (hould be fet
tled fafter. Yet many speak with joy of theprof
pe<2 that troubles abroad will pour in millions in
mass upon us—as if the United States ought t<) be
proud of bean- a kind ps bettering house, or Bed
lam, or rather a Botany Bay for Europe. The
wife and worthy 4r.d the valuable laborers will he
welcome when they eothe, and they will not come
so croud us; it is a-*?ry different clajs that is to be
dr«aded. ,
In this apprehension of a fwoln and unfotmd emi
gration from the diflurbed nations, as well as on
many political accounts, we have a deep concern in
foreign affairs. After several years of blood
, filed and confufion, the prof;>c<Jt of peace and tran
quility is yet far removed. New troubles fecm to
lie commencing. Pruflia and Auftfia threaten hof
tilit'es. Portugal is in danger cf being conquered.
Italy is revolntionmng and Buonaparte willfcarce
ly leave one finne«/ the old edifice of !h' irgov
ernm nts 011 another. France is agitated within,
and the Dire&ory is courting the armies to fide
with them against the Council of Five Hundred.—
Happy is o;<r let, that we may fit under our own
vine and figtree.
# CHARLESTON, September 6.
Mochlni for cleaning Cotton.
Mr. Dole, a French citizen from St. Do
mingo, for some time pad a resident of this
city, has invented and conftrudled a machine
tor cleaning cotton, which, from the experi
ments already maifc, bids fair to excel any .
machiue for the fame purpose hitherto in
vented. It is composed of two diftindt gins,
which are so connected 23 to be set in mo- 1
tion by a cogg-wjieelj which is to be turned ■
by a horse. Prom the experiments already
made,/ when it was turned by hand, its per
formance exceeded tbe most fangnine ex-
it delivered of clean cot- 1
ton in ene mjnute, samples of which have I
been shewn to judges of this valuable article, .1
who declare that the staple of the cotton
was not in the least injured. The machinery
appears furprizingly neat, and there is not
a doubt but it will fully answer the purposes
intended. It if shortly to be fixed in a 1
place where a horse will-turn it, when it will J
be open for the infpeftion of the citizens.
XI}C oasette»
PHILADELPHIA,
i- TUESDAY EVENING, Octobfr 10.
IS - Hun ' mi.
; 'potdl of burials for 24 hours, ending Sunday
" I at noon. \
' - (rrmvi Pcrfout. Children.
il See n?" llfffhyfrbn i o
AlJoeiitte t hurch 1 I
Swedes ' T 0
5 German R.ifcrn'td I o
y M'thndift- 1 0 "
i. - City Hcf. ltal* ?. o
Total 7 1
' * Ftnm 'tit city
' Total of burials for 24 hours, ending yejler~
day at noon.
Grown Persons. Childr o.
y Second Prefhyterian 0 j
1. St. Mary's Church p I
Fi i.'lids' 1 o
•Swedes' I o
" German Lutheran o I
Baptirts o a
r potter's Fidd I o
City Hnfpital* 5 o
e KenGngton I o
9 4
, * Three from the city and fuburbi.
The number of burials on the Sth of 030-
- ler, 1793, was Ninety ; and on the 2th, One
t Hundred and -Two.
The Commissioners have received'from Citi
zens in the vicinity of Frankford, the fol
lowing donations, viz. Dolls.
Isaac Wharton 100
Pattifon Hart.fhorne 100
1 Robert Smith 100
e Robert Wain 100
Nicholas Wain 100
: Godfrey Haga 50
1 Conyngham, Nefbitt, & Co. 100
1 Miirs Fisher 1 50
, ' Samut! Howell 50
1 Samuel Ivl. Fox 50
David Lewis 50
Jefle Wain 50
William Bell 50
Thomas Greaves 50
Samuel Breck 50
e Afh 50
e Benj. R. Morgan 50
f George Roberts 50
Ebenezer Large 50
Daniel Smith 30
Abram Van Beuren 20
John Waddington 20
John Bafry 20
f Abijah Dawes 15
Isaac Austin 5
Joseph P. Norris . 50
e From Citizens in the vicinity of Darby.
1 George Latimer jo
s Jefle Sharpies 30
f Benj. Say 50
r Isaac Lloyd 40
S. Yorke 20,
s H. Waitts Dr. 20
Capt. Williams 5
H. Sparks, fenr. 5
Isaac Price 30
David Rowfa 10
James Strawbridge 50
James S. Coxe 20
Petejr Bmvn 100
; Robert Russell 10
Thomas Randall 5
W. Bell ?0
J. Read 50
John Simpfon 30
Cafli 14 10
Mathew M'tonnell ij
Alexander Fullerton 15
Peter Wykoff , 50
Geo. Weed - 10
John D. G. Wachfmuth JO
Leopald Nottenagle 50
John M. Soullier 10
Thos. Leiper 25
Jacob Gerard Koch 100
Ann Bartram 5
William J. Smith 50
John Palmer, jun. 5
Jacob Pennington, jun. 10
Simeon Reynolds 5
Zeba Barton 5
John Doherty 5
Jacob Carver 5
Benj. Pafchall 10
James Millegan 10
Frs. Markoe 20
Cash 1 o
Wm. Levis 20
Cash 23
Curtis Lewis 3
Geo. Afhton 20
Jofiah Matlack 5
James Humphreys 8
Saml. Williams i o
J. W. .Serjeant 50
FROM OTHERS.
William Crammond 100
Charles Minifie 50
George Emlen 50. ■
Cash (3 persons) 45 ]
Do. (Israel Israel) 5
Do. (Edward Garrigiues) 30
Abraham Markoe 100
Eliza Powell 101
Ambrose Vaffe 50
United Society of Dunkers in <
• and about Germantown 83
African Episcopal church of St. 1 .
Thomas 43 9 1 -
Benj. Fuller 50
Cash (per Treasurer) 10 '
Samuel Wetherill 50
J. B. Boardley 100
J. F. Mifflin 20
Christopher Ludowich and Frederick ~
Fraley, have generously undertaken to bake .
bread for the necessitous, who are relieved -
by this, gratis;
Edward Garrigues, See'ry.
10th mo. Ith, 1797. •
CJ- The bufmefs of the CUSTOM-HOUSE,
•will from tiis day be tranjaated at Chester /
for some time.
Sept. 30.
The coafimiffioners for alleviating the dif
trcfleyof the citizens of Philadelphia, Bcc.
To the Inhabitants of said city and itsivici
nity.
Perihit us to address you at this awful
lay before you a brief ftatetnent
of the d: .'rdTLng situation of our fuffering
V feltof-citi/ens. It is known to you that
on tb ; e firft day qf September we accepted
of tie. appointment from the governor, to
aft as commifiioners for the piu-pofe of re
lieving the indigent, by donation and em
ployment, with the stipulated sum of ten
thouland dollars, granted by the legislature ;
and we presume it was generally believed at
that time to be more than fufficient, arising
from an expeftatmn that the disease would
soon abate, and that our absent friends
- would return and give employment to those
j whose refourees were cut off by their leav
• , ing the city ; ftut, alap ! how are we dif
appomted in our expectation, for our sity
yet continues in the fame desolated gloomy
Hate, and consequently all means of employ
ment for the industrious mechanic and la
bourer are still suspended—Add to this the
numerous body of females that procured a
livelihood by,iva/hing, ironing, needle work,
scc. who are left deflitute of their usual
means of subsistence, besides a number who
are aged arid infirm, that used to obtain re
lief from the bounty of their more able
- | friends znd relations, as well as many fea
e | men's wives who depend on the merchant
j for part of their husband's monthly pay r and
I who are now deprived of reliff frwm that
source. In this deplorabje situation we
found not less than three thousand people,
including children, when we undertook to
execute the trust reposed in us, the number
of these have since greatly increased, and
they still remain in the fame fuffering con
dition, with this difference, then they had
the consoling reflection, that the commission
ers had ten thoufind dollars ready to meet
their exigencies, but now it is expended ;
and lamentable for us to be obliged to in
form them—" We know not where to fend
you, or what to advise you to do- Our
money is gout* We lmv. .to acquaint
you we cannot promise your small pittance
one week louger we feel for you—we
fuffer with you—we know your distress
what can we do ? we can only promise you
we will make your situation known to our
fel'ow-citizens, and you mull rely on their
benevolence.
Friends and fellow-citizens,
If you mean to give relief through us, we
have only to observe that our endeavours
fiiall be to continue to distribute it accord
ing to your benevolent intentions and their
neceflities. If, on the otjier hand, it (hould,
be your pleasure to entrust youf monies for
the above purpose, in the hands of any o
ther set of men, we (hall hold ourselves
bound to give all and every information or
afiiftanee that experience has furnifhed us
with, so as to facil'tate your laudable pur
poses ; and in either cafe we think it pro
per to annex our names and places of abode.
the city. %
Robert Wharton, S. Third street, No. 135®
Edward Garrigues, Cherry ftreef, No. 39.
George Krebs, N. Fifth-ftreet, No. 17.
John James, do. No. 18.
Israel Israel, Corner of Chefnut and Third-
Thomas Savery, N. Fifth street, No. 20.
NORTHERS LIBERTIES. t
Samuel vvheeler, Vine street, No. 99.
John Wagner, Noble street.
George Ingles, New Market street.
NORTHERN lIBERTIES.
Samuel Wheeler, Vine street, No. 99.
John Wagner, Noble street.
George Ingles, New market street.
SOUTHWARK.
William Linnard, South Second street.
Robert M'Mullen, Swanfon street, No. 60..
* This relates to the 10,000 dollars—the
commiffioticrt have yet in' hand part of the
private donations.
[The printers are requested to insert the
above as often as convenient.}
At a meeting of a number of refpe&able
citizens of Philadelphia, at the Union school
house in Germantown, on the 7th 0&. '97 :
It was refolvedthat a committee to eonfift .
of nine, be appointed to colleft contribu
tions of the citizens now resident in Ger
mantown and its vicinity and others, for the
purpose of alleviating the distress of such of
their fellow-citizens who may be deemed
proper objects of relief by the commifiion
ers appointed by the governor to carry into
effeft an aft of the General AfTembly pass
ed 011 the 29th day of August lafti
That the following named gentlemen be
a committee, vizi
John Dutilap, Robert Hare,
Benjamin Chew, jr. Peter Baynton,
John McCulloch, Henry Pratt,
Gideon Hill Wells, Thomas FiJher,
William Wiftar.
That the proceedings of the meeting be
signed by the »hairman and secretary, and
publiftied for the information of their fel
low-citizens.
BENJAMIN CHEW, Chair.
Samuel W. Fisher, Sec'ry-
PRICES OF Tt OCKS,
Philadelphia, Bth Sept. 1797.
6 per Cent. . 16/8
c perCint. iof A .
"Deferred 6 per Cent. 13/4
BANK Ui.lted State®, 18 per ct. advance.
Vennlyivania, de.
- North America, 46 do.
(nfursnce Co. N. A fharea 45 to jo do.
—— Pennsylvania, par
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 3c days par
■ •, at 60 days 65
at 90 days 6j
Amftcrdam, per guilder ' 40
4 j
MEDICINES.
THE Poor who may find it inconvenient, from
ance » t0 ma * tc use of Mr. Hunter's truly me
ritorious offer, will be supplied with medicines
sago, barley, oatmeal, &c. by applying at the
fubfcribcc's store, No. 36, Market-street.
ROBERT S. STAFFORD.mr. WILLIAM CURRIE.
In a few days I mean to reply"Tnpre fully
to your three last letters to me ; jn the mean
time I indulge a hope, th?t you will furnifli
Sie with less evaflve anfwevs- than those you
.'have given to several of the queftiinis I hid
"proposed to you : one fcf 'these queftiops I
fna'.l row repeat, though in a different form ;
firft dating wh it you do not deny, that the
crew of the Arethufa -were healthy when
they were discharged, and that they remain
ed so at tutir refpeftive lodgings, where
thtfy had deposited what you call their in
fected materials without-giving the prevail
ing fever even to one person there, and yet
you fay " that Mr. Latimer, Mr. Lewis
and others might have received the conta
gion from passing near those people with
their infefted materials." I now aik you,
whether from any of those records ancient
or modern which you hs.ve quoted on the
present occasion, you can furnifli an instance
of the crew'of a (hip in perfedt health, ever
» having given the yellow fever to a number
of people whom they had transiently psfled
in the streets or elfewherc, and at the fame
time not having infe&ed any of those with
•whom they lodged or where their supposed
infe&ed materials were deposited ? \ ou fay
that you were induced to address me again
by a powerful desire of ascertaining the ori
gin or true cause of the prevailing fever, if
your labours terminrJe here in the present
instance, they will be of little life to the pub
lic ; or do you mean to crown those labours
by proposing such means or.regulations in
addition to those already adopteS, as may
probably prevent a repetition of our present
calamity from the various causes which you
have assigned ? if you have not this in view,
you will aft the part of a phylieian who
should tell his patient that he was stimulat
ed by a powerful desire of ascertaining
. the origin and cause of his disease, and then
to leave him either to fink under it, or to
apply to some other physician for the falu
]tary means of recovery. For my own part
I now declare that I should not have ap
peared before the public on the present oc
casion, unless with a view, firft of tracing
our present calamity to what I conceived to
be its tru? source, and thenxif pointing out
the probable means of preventing a repeti
tion of it from fitr.ilar causes hereafter. In
my next address to you or to t'a? public, I
fllall propose such means or regulations as
appear to me most likely to succeed, fubjeft
however to any 'salutary iniprovewents
which a candid discussion thereof ma.y intro- j
diice. I shall then ihew the difficulties I
that are opposed to the adoption and exe-1
cution of such regulations as can afford any !
•security against the future attacks of the
yellow fever of tropical origin, if it can be
introduced in all the variety of ways that
you have mentioned in your seVeral letters
to roe. I hope I shall soon receive answers
to the several questions which T have asked
you, your firft address to me having furnifh
ed me with a fair claim to them ; and as I
am npw told that yon reside in the country,
it is probable yon there poflefs that leisure
and retirement, which you heretofore al
ledged you had not at your command ; yet
if these should still be too heavily taxed by
your correspondence with me, you must
place it solely to the account of that leisure
and retirement which it seems you had at
your command, when you commenced your
unprovoked and illiberal attack on my letter
to Dr. Mease.
BENJAMIN Yv YNKOOP.
(Dftober 9th, 1 707.
x - \
For tht Gazette of tlx United Stater.
AS physicians of diftinguifht;d abilities
and experience in this country as well as it
the Weft-Indies differ extremely in opinion,
refpe&ing the most cffc&ual means of treat
ing the malignant yellow fever, and particu
larly refpefting the use of hlood-letting, and
as nothing c»:i determine a question of faft
but 3 statement of cases and a comparison of
the success which has attended each method
of treatment : I am induced to ft?te the re
; fult of my experience on the fnbjeft in hopes
of inducing others to do the fame that a
question of so much public concern, may be
cleared from the ambiguity in which differ
ent views and idle fpeftators liaveinvolved it.
oa. 9. Wm. currie.
That copious and a frequent repetition
of blood-letting was frequently salutary in
the malignant yellow fever which prevailed
in Philadelphia in the autumnal season oT '93,
I am convinced from numerous cases in
which I employed it, and which from rea
soning on the nature of the disease and from
its speedy tendencies to putrefaftion, as well
as from the writings of several Weft-India
physicians, I strenuously opposed till incon
trovertible fa£ls in the praftice of" others
convinced me that it was fafe' in aH cases
distinguished by inflammatory symptoms.
But my subsequent experience in 1793> a,, d
in '94 well as the present season-has taught
me that blood-letting accelerates
the fatal termination of the disease by in
creasing debility and inducing typhous co
ma, in all cases and in every fiage of the di
sease, when the prostration of strength is ve
»y diftinft, accompanied with great oppres
sion and anxiety at the precordia,fhrunk and
pale countenance, deep sighing and restless
ness, (which with the suddenness of the at
tack, short continuance of the chill, pain in
the head, redness of the eyes or soreness and
burning sensation in the stomach, taken ccl
ledtively, distinguish it from every variety
of the bilious or remitting fever) together
with the weakness, quickness, small and
foft adlion of the arteries at the wrists.
In September 1794, the malignant yel
low fever wa3 introduced into Philadelphia
by travellers from Baltimore, where it had
prevailed for some time previous to its ap
pearance here, it was also introduced from
St. Marks by the snow Commerce, com
manded by Mr. Shirtliff. Archibald Flow
er who caught the disease by sleeping on
board the snow, was bled once on the se
cond and twice on tjie- third day from the
attack—the last blood after becoming cold,
didjiat fepjirate into ferurn and craflamen
tnm.but remained perfectly fluid, and rc
fe-nbled in colour and confidence a mixture
of rrtolaljes and water. Of 27 patients that
I attended with the yellow fever in 1794,
only nin: recovered. The greatest number
of those to whdm the disease proved mortal
were bled three times within the firft three'
dtfys from the attack, and two of them five
times, the lift quantity taken from any one
in the course of the disease was 45 ounces,
and the Lirgeft quantity 82 ounces. And
Dr. Buchannan afEures me in a letter, an
extraft from which was publi'fhed in Mr.
| Fenno's Gazette some tinfie in Oftober, of
fame year, that those who bled most at Bal
timore that season, loft the greatest number
of patients.
Previous to my leaving the city on ac
count of the fickrufs and situation of my
own family, the present feafpn, I attended
seventy patients, fifty-four of whom reco
vered. Of these 70 patients, 34 were bled
three times at the early period of the fever,
vid freely purged with a compofition.con
flftingof calomel 5 grs. jalap 10 grs. arid
I cream of tartar 1 fcru. given every four
hours till it had the intended effedl. Of i
j these 24, 21 recovered. Of 13 that were 1
j bled only once and freely purged, 11 reco- |
1 vered, 2 died. 14 were bled three times ■
and treated in other refpe&s like those that
were bled twice, 11 recovered. 3 died 5
were bled four times, &c. 3 recovered, 2
died. 6 were bled five time?, 3 recovered,
3 died. 1 was bled nine times and I eleven
times, and both recovered. In both the
: last mentioned patients, symptoms of in
flammation were very evident and remarka
bly obstinate, poflibly supported by the
daily use of mercury in small dofex> the
. most phlogistic of all medicines when em
: ployed in that manner. An inflamed state
; of the ftomnch in the patient that was bled
j eleven times was the predominant complaint,
I and the blood in the latter stage of the dif
; ease always threw up a tough bufly fire,
and imdsnieatli it retained a healthy aspect,
as did that also of the patient that was bled
nine times. The patient that was bled ele
ven times in the course of seven days, loft
100' on ices; the other about 96 ounces,
j Six patients wer.' not bled at all, owing to
insuperable prejudices, 3 recovered, 3 died.
From the preceding cases, as well as
from a multiplicity of others that have
come under my observation, 1 am confident
that blood-letting, to a certain extent, as
j well as purging, is not only fa r e but abfo-
I lutely beneficial, in all cases and at every pe
-1 riod of the malignant yellow fever, in which
I inflammatory fymjitoms or even an inflam
matory diathesis is preient, and especially
when the head is aflfe&ed with acute pain,
or the stomach with a painful and burning
sensation, and the pulse quick and tense or
chorded, whether the limbs be preternatu
rally hot or moist ; whereas in every cafe
that I have seen it employed, attended with
great prostration of strength, oppreflive
weight and sense of stricture about the
thorax, with a low, small, quick and irre
gular pulse, it has invariably accelerated
the fatal termination of the disease.
That repeated blood-letting has often
been employed with advantage in the plague,
which is a higher grade of the yellow fever,
as the yellow fever is of the typhus or con
tagious fever generated in clofc, confined
and impure iituations, we have instances in I
the works of the accurate Sydenham, in the
Journal of the Plague at Marseilles, as re
corded by the learned and refpedlable Mead,
in his Discourse on the Plague, page 220, j
Dublin edition of 1767, and in the account ;
of it at Aleppo, by Dr. P. RufTel, publilh
ed in 1790.
The abuse, the excess, or the mif-tinied
application of bleeding, therefore, and not
its* judicious and well-timed application,
should be condemned and reje£ted in the
yellow fever. But to condemn and rejeft it
in all cases indiscriminately, argues not only
want of experience, but of reading, refleftion
and common sense.
Dr. Chifliolm a.furcs us that he cured the
generality of the patients that came under
his care at Grenada, by giving to an adult
jo grains of calomel as soon as possible after
feeing him, under every circumstance of the
disease and in v;ry cafe ind'fcrimirmtcly ;
and .repeating it every three hours, joining
opium with it after the fee .nd dose (if it
operated more than two or three times, but
not otherwise) till a falivat'on began to
make its appearance, which was generally in
less than 48 hours ; and that 1:1 every cat
in which faliv ion could be efiefted, the
patient invariably• recovered without any
other remedy.
[See his eflay on the fever at Grenada,
in 1793 aB<J '79+ —page 272-]
Whether this method of treating the dis
ease is more effectual than any other (as
Dr. Chifholm confidently asserts) or not,
my experience has not been fufficient to
enable ine to decide.
JNE LIST.
Pour of Philadelphia.
Copied from the log book of the fchoonf-r Nancy,
of Savannah, John M-Ailaftcr, master, from St.
Croix
September 14, at 10 P. AT. fatv a brig clofc under
our lee y fianding to tbe fouthtvard — after passing us she
L'jvc about and frcd a Jbot, zvs twos to and watted ber
coming up. Site ordered out our boat and the captain on
board "with the papers, which order being Jbirt'.y coHffilitd
withy though not without a tbrtat of again f ring-into us
unless ive bore a band. The boat returned wi b tbe cap -
tain of the brigand four of bis men, detaining ours on
bo.n d tbe brig —'Their gredtefl enquiry was for papers.
but their particular ions for plunder, beginning at
their bufthefs very regular by rumnwgir-g every part of the
Jbipy makivgprize of cVet y thing they laid their bands oi,
in particular our foci and provfions which they decently
tabbed us of without any ceremony—fowls, pigs, due is,
goats, bread, yams, \&c * taking the wbole although know
ing us to be out but two days, and bound to tbe coafl of
America. Surely we might /lamp him for a tbief and no
sailor, more especially when betook from us all the pump
leathcrwe had on board, notwit'fianding we told him we
were very leaky. He t(K>i away every nail be could find,
tools y lead'Udty life. Plundered wearing apparel, and
sundry dozen wine, porter and brandy. Wbile tbe boneji
republican was searching our trunks below, bis men on
j dtici 7v'/r.: tb reaitttii? to tut ft negro*.t wrtusly i» mai( llm
j confeft hit rmifltr bud hid bis snt.u7 (-woo lt
| gentleman tvith iff ) Theft Lp*tefl thici-u I -
| longed to the briv if 12 gvnt wr lT 2 fitted
' out at Point Patre, Gu . djloupe nnd ro winnJcdGj/ov,
;9■ FrenthMait : the Iriy' fto Mr blur— On cur
Parting, they ptrtftrtiM nn dmcicin f>>'ff*nyr i 0 f
Pwith, ui-r—thehftrtfi'ht 10* /•/«•» fr/.m
Zim, who-was pibo tr ! di&t : O-i thp yd ■ S'tflc /tier,
Jhc took and plundered the 6>ijf Twdrwrr, of St. Thorn 1/.r,
howul to Hamhui ah, and o<tvc t '< v. !•'<■'> in —
On the the brig ?.101/ ' f 'Xrrtt To> £, Pff't. R.tymond
after phtodering took hh h'-tt. f>u* t'*r pe file t;> iro"s an,}
threatening to hang them, or r av th 't th't 7fere hound to an
Jtrig/iff *1 t- Or? the 6$ /be Three Friends of Ch(trlesm y
ho. 1 / ltd to after tjfvndcrin?, fkimefu'ly abufrd
thf caf'ta"t The 7 fh'-p hof PhVadAp'cia,
' l ohn Hold b.undHn liavannah. ft'imdered her tind
ftffrrrdhrr tq . 0~ the yth the ship D ; fbatch,
Cif't. c. St. TZpmtytt lmild to HavOnnah,
i p'uitiered him and ino.l oi<* ofbjs pr«p'e All the alwe
veffch iter? f>l tndt-rcd E;n li fhcolours ; this
ivcnt vn hoard with log knives hangi/t y to their fides 1, hav
. intr 01 hoard an menran as metier /'•/ ffteal'wg ve/Jei's in
Sarr.iid Barns, of Ports Nc-w-H.tmf:-
J l '-'.
»i— ' <
New-York, Oftober 9.
l arrived. Days
. Brfg Swallow, Stoddard, Atix-Cayes 28
Lydia, , Gibraltar 60
Sc'r Lucretia, Bartram, Turk's IHand
CLEANED.
J Ship Favorite, Drummond, London
' Brig Amelra. Seamarv, Atix Cayes
Sch'r Fanny Norton, I/Anvereau
From the log-book of the brig Swallow, 28
days from Aux-Cayes :
Sept. 25, spoke the schooner Sanbnry
Packet, from Aux-Cayes, bound to New-
York, out 14 days, lat. 29.
Sept. 26, spoke a French frigate of 32
guns, from Cnpe Francois, having Santho
nax or- board, bound to New-York or Char
leston, lat. 31, al.
Sept. 30, lat. 45, 40, long 26, was spoke
(hip America, from New-York, bound to
Nantes, 20 days out, all well.
By this Hay's Vlqi).
..(i.
NEW-YORK, O&ober 9.
The PreHdent of the United States ;s ex
pefted in town in a few days, on his way to
the feat of government ; and a number of
gentlemen propose to compliment him with
a haudfome entertainment.
A gentleman, in a /hort paffagefrom St.
Domingp, informs, that on the night be
tween the 19th and 20th of September,
there was a fevere'cannonade for about 5 or
6 hours, off the Cape.' It was conjeelured
that captain Barney had fallen in with the
British (hips, which were cruising off that
port.
A letter from an American consul in
France informs, that the Ihip Brifels, be
longing to Meflrs. Rutgers, Ogden and Sea
man, is condemned for want of a role d'E
qnipage. Her cargo was very valuable, and
80, coo dollar* were under-written irf this
city.
' The proposition for a union of the new Ve
netian Jlate, with the Otfalpine republic, has
been rejected, by 15,000 votes egainft 35,000
—lf as fame suppose, Buonaparte intends to
ereQ Italy, from Piedmont to the Adriatic, in
to one indivisible republic, and put h)mfelf at
the head of it, a feus columns of his troops will
, rafily turn the majority of votes in favor of the
proposed union of Venice -jutth Lombardy.
By the address of Carnot to the French on
the celebration of the loth of AugvJ}, it is obvi
ous thai the government of France is assailed by
efforts to r fit re monarchy. Indeed the late
\ election is a proof that the opinions of the mass
of the nation are unfriendly to the meafuret of the
. government ;if not to the con/litution. But
even admitting the fa 3, thai a majority of the
nation is in favor of a limited monarchy, the
difficulties of refloring it, -which Carnot has
dfcribed, are real—they may be infvrrr.ountable
and if the present conflitution can cxifl and
prefrrvc peace !>nd subordination to law, good
Frenchman will submit to it, raihfr than rifle
the dangerousflorms of another revolution.
PARIS, June 23.
The new Jacobin club has commenced its
fittings in the hotel de Montiqprepcy.yGuin
guene is cbofen as president ; the number of
the members amounts to 500, of whom
there are 30 deputies of the Revolutionary
Third.
The turbulent session in the council of five
hundred, on the 19th inft. refpefting the
abolition of the law, which deprived the
diredlory of all controul over pecuniary ne
gocintions, has produced different remarks
in the public journals. Some apprehend a
civil war, thinking that the constitution is
menaced with imminent danger of its over
throw, and that from the jacobin clubs wil
(hortly spring up monarchical clubs ; -but
our patriots have many obje£lions against
the probability of such an event. In order
to prevent similar disorderly proceedings in i
the legidatlve body, as those on the 29th j
instant, a committee has btep appointed to '
make a report on the better organization of
the internal police within the halls of the
councils, when in fcflion. The parties dai
ly increase, and in the palais royal conten
tions are conftsntly taking place, which ge
nerally appear as forerunners of more impor
tant events. The members of the new club
(called Conttitutioual Circle's) make <jreat
exertions to gain over the military ftirpsto
their fide, while numerous ancVn>s?rcnyi)s wri
ters attempt to provoke the fokliers against
the Parifi«nß. The journals increase the
flames of discord more and moftj and very
probably there will be some serious commo
tions during this summer.
N O T I C E.
IF Thebt O'Haßa, who some years.since kept
School at che Nine Bridges, Queen's County, Eas
tern Shore, Maryland, be living, he i» hereby re
minded to call on, or writs to, the Rev. Ambrose
Marflial, near Warwick, Cecil • County, F.aftern
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will receive in
teresting information.
August 4.
PHILADELPHIA,
j Tuesday Ersmkc, ocfobCr jo .
CITY HOSPITAL PREORT,
From 9th to' 10th October, in the morning.
Admitted, since last report,
Maria Franks, Southwark committee room
Diftharged, since lad report.
Prudence Jones, admitted 14th ult.
Margaret' Tibbs, 21ft
Kitty Hal!, 23d 1
Peggy Notcrofs, 2 $
Nancy CavenHaugh, 2d inft.
Sarah Cobmbe, do.
#■
Remaining lad report 55
Admitted since , 1
i
56
Discharged 6
Died ' o —r — 6
! Remain in Hofpiul. | | JO
; Six of whom are dangerous. ■
In erred since last report.
From city aHd suburbs 6
| Hospital 0
Total $
Stephen Girard.
(Signed) Caleb Lownes.
John Connelly.
Piibliihed by order of the Board,
Wm. MONTGOMERY,
Chairman pro tem.
Died] —Mr. David Thomas, High
Constable of Southwark, a very active and
ufeful officer.
Died, at Alexandria, Q<ftober second,
Major John Callender, an old and ref
petlable officer in the Amerrcan war. His
; remains were interred on T.uefday forenoon,
j at the Episcopalian church, with the usual
r nrcfonlc tumors.
M.ty, FRNKC,
Your publication refpefting the treat
ment of the yellow fever in Jamaica, is one
of the most interefling that has appeared
ort that fubjeft. I was induced from mere
euriofity, to make a tompsrative statement
of the fnccefs of the' different remedies,
and was so struck with the result, that I
think it proper to communicate it to the
public through your Gazette.
Of those who were bled, 2 in 3 died.
Of those who were not bled, died.
Of those who took calomel, I in 5 died.
Of those who took calomel and bark,
1 in 25 died. ,
,TENERIFFE WINE.
LANDING at Walnut-street wharf, TENE
RIFFE WiNE, of excellent quality, in pipes and
half pipes, for sale by JAMES YARI.>.
Ofl- ro. eoßt
The Managers, Treasurer and Phyficiahs
01- the Pem/ylvtnia Hoff ital, are dcfired to at
tend at the said Hospital on the sth day next, the
12th inft at one o'clock in the afternoon; —the
company of David Evans, house carpenter ; Ro
bert KjytJork. glaiier ; and William Steward,
hlacklmith, is alio requefteJ. The above gentle
men may he assured, there is not a perfen in the
houfa ill of a fever of any kind.
SAMUEL COATES.
10mo- r«, 1797. at
An UMBRELLA "
WAS taken (supposed to have been stolen) on
Sunday evening last, from the hotifc occu-L'd by
Mr. Blunt, No 9, Strawberr-ftrect-It i* agreen
si k Umbrella, of the middle siz e, with a ied mo
rocco top and hooked ivory heai.—Conceiving it
to have been taken by some pilfering knave, who,
a&uated by pecuniary motives, may endeavor to
vefidthe fatal*, any perfan or persons to whom the
said Umbrella may be offrred, are deflred to flop it;
audit if-•hoped, will apprehend and cprviil the
ihief so jutticc. The peculiarity of the Uxribrella I
will, evidently, the- poflclTor to detection ;
therefore, whocv r ap;«?4ifcnds the fame and deliv
ers it at Mi*. Bjunt's, horn' whence it was taken,
or at Mr. Fei.no's office, fliall be handsomely re
warded. OA. 3. —
just published,
And to he fold at the Beokftores of H. Isf P.
Kice, No. 50, Market-flreet 1 J. Ormrnd,
No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, and W. Young,'
i-orner of Chefnut and Second-streets,
An accurate System of Surveying;
IN WHICH IS CONTAINED,
1. Decimal fra<stion«, in a plain, coticife,
and easy manner.
a. The extraction of the fquareroot.
3..Plain trigonometry, reftangular and ob
lique.
4. An exa& method to cad up the eoutehts
of lands.
.5. Field surveying.
The whole being performed without the use
of scale and compafles, on a table of logarithms.
In which is given some accrust of the variation
of the needle, and the-caufes of its attrition.
By SAMUEL MOORE.
August J. iawaw
~THK SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSICNEES OF JAMES GREENLEAFj
HEREBY give notice, that they have disposed
of the property afiigned to them for the securing
the paymebt of the note*, acceptances, and en
dori'euienfs' £iven by Edward Fox, for the use
otthefeid James Greenleaf; and theboljers of
luch notes, acceptances, and endorsements, are
hereby ;notifyed that the fubfrtibers will fettle
with th(jm for the amount of their refpeflive
claims, bfth principal and intpkest, at
any time before the icth day of Odloucr next;
after which dav, the holder? not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of align
ment.
Applications to be made at fouth-enfl corner
of Dock and Second' streets ( the Dock-itreet
Ode), between the hours of eleven and one o'
clock every day, Sunday* excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tho. fV. Francis,
John Miller, Jun.
John AJhley,
Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, August iB, 1797.
The Partner (kip,
UNDER the firm of FHFEMaN S3* Company,
is dilTolved by mutual consent. All persons
having any demands against the said House are de-
P.rea to render fame to T. 8.-Freeman ; anc
those indebted to the House arc deCred to make pay
ment to hinw-By whom business will in future be
carried on,it hi* Store, No. 39, South Front-street.
Awfi 7. eod4W
raw&f4w
:'3SFSEP!
Boston Glass Manufactory. .
TT»E citizens of the United are hereby
that tlit; manufacture of Winnow
Oafs is now potumeheed at she Glass House in B: f
tor.\
It is needlift to fay any thi"g of the exccllrnt
oui ity of the Hrftou Gl-fs, a? it is so well knov n
throughout th«- Unite.-! re be in every r< !}•»
greatly fujv ricr to any ever imported from
It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
vay be confuntly had i y applying to Charles f.
|u» if ft*. aft. the G lufr House.
Orders from the distant States to be addrefled to
jVt. Samuel Go ft;, Oourt-ftreet, Boston.
Bcifton, i>ei t *0,1797 O4 —aaw'w
MJfrs. Tin-0! by and Vafon, 'Charlejlan ; Mtffrs.
Jlodve and Boylarty Halifax, N. C jMtJfrs. WilUtt
and W.Connor. Norf/i ; Tkfr. Ellis Prite, Alexandtia ;
Tundlahd j3r,ov~<n y Baltimore ; Air. Hopkins,
&t-u-York ; and j.\\tffrs. IhtJfon f Goodit in^Hart
ford f Mr. Savannah f are requeflt} to insert
the along ohct a -week 6 iveeks. The accounts to be for*
j ivai ded to tie Editor.
From Marseilles.
THE CARGO
OftheFwedifli barque 3tiftavus Ado!phus,from
Marfe.llcs, co; fnling of the following article*,
is diicharging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
sale by the fubfc'ibers
J'RAONDY, well flavored, of i, 3 & 4th proof
'Claret, in bullheads
'Ditto, irrtafei
Froutigmac Wine, in cases of 30 battles
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in b.fects of 6
and J", bottles
Capers
Oivrs
Almonds
Dry Verdigrs-afe
Wfiiiug PirA'r
l/cV'i'c las (Siik) of 2S, 30 and 32 inches
Taffeties
I.org Ami short white Kid Gloves for Women
Siik Stocks gs
Handkcich ess, in imitation of Madrafa
Artificial Flowers a.id Garlaads
Ostrich Feathers
_K ibhois
Perf .mery
s'ceoted Hair-Powder and Pomatum
Manna 'ii.for.s
Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANDREWS.
September 27. Trots
At a Meeting of the board of
Pioperty, June 6, 1797*
Prcfent John Mali, See'ry
Francis JobnUon, R. G. > oflandoflice
Dan. Brodbead, S. G- j
Nicholas Bettinger, }
Versus >•
?amuel Cunningham.)
Tn this cafe the proof of fervice.of notice be
ing inefficient, Itisordered that notice be giv
,en in one of the Phibdelphia and York newfpa-r
pers weekly, for at least eight weeks to the
heirs or assignees of Samuel Cunningham ' de
ceased, to atttend the board < i> the firlt i/londay
in November next, to Ihew caule why a parent
fliould not ifliie to Nicholas Bettinger for the
land in quettion.
(A true Copy.)
JOHN HAI.L,
Secretary of the l/ind Office.
Aug. 15. *iawßw.
The Health-Office
13 removed to the City-Hall, and is kept open
night and day, where pcrfons having bwfincfs ma f
apply. W.^. ALLEN, Htalth-Officer.
Sept. 4. dtf
" NOTICE." ~
THt Offices of the Department of War are far
the prefect removed near to the Falls of th« Scuyl»
kill, on the Ridge Road.
September 4. dtf
NOTICE.
ALL person* indebted t« the eliate of Johh
Striklr, lite of Tinnecum Township,
Buck's County, are requested to payoff their
refpe<Jlive debts ; and those having ajiy de
mands against ftid eflate, are defiled to bring in
their accounts, to
JOSEPH CH Asa IS RRLA'N, & \ E xecu- •
MALLET PRE?ALT, J tors.
Sept. 18. ,<|yiaw4w
MED Tc" ITTF; ST "
OF every kind, naceffary for the sick a'fo, Sa
go, Barley, and Oatmel. for diet drink, will be
delivered gratis, euring the prefvnt contagion, to
tb*fe who are unable to pay for it, at Hdntf.r'j
1 abora-or . No. I t4. South Second Street.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT the CommUfiotjeri for the o£
have removed their half to the houf®
formerly occupied by Samuel Goff, in ChriO:ian at
the corner of Fifth it reel. Q&. 2.
Pealf.'s Museum
THIS valuable repofitoTy of the works of
ture, To well calculated to delight the mind
•nd enlarge the undvrllandwg, is opened daily 4 as
usual. It stands in an airy and healthy situation,
and free from the epidemic that at prcfent afflict
the city ; it may, therefore, be frequented Avith
the greatest fafe*y.
As an Amufcment, the study of Nature is the
most rational and pletuing : as a/Scfencr, the most
and inflrudive. It elevates the mind and
expands the heart. They
" IVbam Nature's -works can charm xuitb God himfelf
" Hold ennveffe." /
Many inter -ft ing additions have lately
made to this Mulcum : ai d the feath: red fril.e,
containing a variety of the most rare and beautiful
lubje&B, :s now very advantagVaufly arranced.
Waxen Figwres v of Men as life (some of them
casts from nature) are here.dressed in thrir pieper
habits, and placed in attitudes cbaruikriclic of>heir
refpe(slive nations Here may be feia the Worth-
American Sav.ige and the Savage of South Ameri
ca—a laboring Chinese, <nnd the Chincfe Gentle
man—the sooty African, and tfce l^Lamtfchadale—t
with some Natives of the South Sea Islands The
immecfe variety and intereflihg diversity which
this Mufciim offers to the view may be seen but
cannot be defcribtd .with full effeel.
Price only i*4th of a dollar.
FI'"E DOLLARS REWARD.
RAN away from the fubferiber, an indented
Servant Girl, r.amed NAXcY a
bout twenty years of age, short, thick fetperfon,
with fhorr black hair ; had on when ilie went away,
a dark calico gown, an old black (ilk cloak, and a
black fur hat. Wl-oev r Wittfecure (aid girJ, and
give information thtreof to tke fubkriber, No. 2,
Gieenleaf alley, tor to she office of this Gazette,
ftiall receive the above, reward
All persons are forbid harboring said girl, as
they will be dealt with ns the 'aw direAs
MARY AKDERSON,
N. B. Said Girl is from Ireland, and has beep ia
this country but a (hort time ; Hie wasftnt to tho
vvork-houfe for mifcoiidu&, where (he was taken
sick and removed to the cky-hofpical, from which
fte made her efc^pe.
Aft laying Duties on Stamped Vellum,
Parchment and Paper.
'a FEW copi*s of the above maybehad at
the Office of tho Gazette of the United States,. No.
119, Chefnut-ftreet. July 19.Imported in the ship M ancilest e r,
Benjamin Shewell, Mafttr,
i'rom Bowvleaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
No. 11 Walnut St'cel.
Bonrdeatix Brandy
Irillv rr.srket claret in cases Entitled to
Medocwine, in do. Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do.
Thomas •Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE. j
Sherry. Win* in pipes and quarter calks
, Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
40eo bushels Liverpool fait.
A eg. 24. tut&stf.
To r e fold at Public Vendue,
Toihe liightlt biddtr, at the halife ot Mr.
William Evans, the sign of liie Indian
Queen, in the < iiv of Baltimore, on the z?.tli
- day of (")<£lober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
Abou; seven tbouland iieres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reiiler's-town and Welhninfter,
commonly called Liitle Wini heller, (the turn-,
pike roaJ runs through a conlHerabie part of
theft lands) the tratk begin 3 sbout 17 miles (
from Udltimore, \>4;hin a IW lmnibed yards |
of said Rtlller.'s-fown, and extends t.i the dif- j
tslice of about twenty-three miles si oin Bilti-l
more, an-1 lies on the main falls of P.T*'plico ;
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will j
-be fold in traiSis of one hunSreiraiid fifty to,
three hundred acre. There is a large propur
tirnoi meadow and wood land on each trail,
fo'mr of them - improved, with excellent
buddings ind fine gr. fs.
, AISO
A tract of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
BKv.lenfhurg, elleemed very good for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby,of BUdenfburgb, will (hew
this land to any person inclined to purcliafe.
also,
A tra& of land of about three hun
dred an'd thirty a«re«, within about two miles
and a half ol the PreQdent's house in tlje Tede
ra! City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fitfe
high profpedl, frosi which may be fcen tHe
city of Walhinffton, Bladcnfburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-toWn, and nuny miles
down the Potorsae river. Mr. Richard Por.fon
by, of Bladenfburg, will also (bew this land.
A liberal credit will be given for the grtateft
part of the purchafc money, j'he terms will
be made known on the day of sale.
May 8 •
Just Received,
Batavia (via Providence)
a few Boxes of Spices, confuting of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace > '
For sale by
KILLINGS Id FRANCIS,
Penn street.
Wav 30 ' dtf
. I
Davis's Law Book Store, n
No. 3191 High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
T) KING busied for some time pad in prepara
iJ tions for removing.into his pr.fent house, has
been under thcnecelbtyof poftpcninguntil this day
informingtbegentlemen ofthe Bar generally thro'
th« Uaited States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for laic, on
terms that fie trults will entitle him to the liktf re
frocnce he has experienced for Several years pad.
Catalogues, combining the most varied collec
tion ever imported ioto this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
June 27. aaw 6w
City CbmmiJJioners' Office,
yunen, 1797.
IN purfuapce of an ordinance from the felefl
and common councils, palled the lid day of
May lafl, appointing the city cotnmiflioncrs,
and prescribing their duties, fedlion 9th,
NOTICE IVHEKEUY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into.,five dittri<fl»,
each to be under the fuperintendance of one of
the city commtflioners, whoisto be individually
relponfible for the cleanliness of the fame, and
are as follow.
Driftriil No. 1. From the south fide of Ce
dar-ftrret, to the north fide of Sprucc-flreet, un
e rtht fuperiwtendencc of Nathan Boys.
j. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
the north fide of Walnut-street, under the fuptr
intendence of Hugh Uoherts.
3. From the north fide of Walnut to tkefouth
fide of Ifigh-ftreet, under the fuperintendence v ot
Joseph Claypoole.
4. Fromthe north fide of High-street, to the
north fidi* of Mulberry street, under the fuper
intendenceof WillUfm Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulherry-ftreet to
the north fide of Vine-street, under the super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks-
The cleaningof High-street to be in common,
rt" A Hated meeting of the city commiflion
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at s o'clock.
July 14. eoim
Stands for Draymen, &V.
In -purjuanct of an Ordinance from the St left and
Common Councils, bearing date the 22d day rrf
April, 1797, providing for tbe appointment of
City Commffioners, cjc. Seel, the i;th.
r I"JHE following places are fixed upon by the
X said City Commifiioners for Stands for
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-street, caftward of Front-street, on
both fides.
Saffafras, High.Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
caftward of Front street, on the no.-th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to
Third-street.
Front-ftreat, east fide from Vine-street to
Elfrith's alley-
Front-street» from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east tfde.
Water-street, weft fide from the north end of
Stomper's or Moore's ftorts to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Celar-ftreet, weft
fide- „ , „
Drawbridge, north fide, eaft-cf Front-Itreet.
Spruce, Pine and South streets, east of Fro&t
street, south iide.
Dock-street, between Walnut-street and the
Bag stone crossings, east fide, opposite George
Orklav's.
Second-ftrcet, between SafTafras and Vine
streets, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chcfnut to Mul
berry streets. ■
Saffafras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-street,
east fide.
No dray or horse to ffand within ten feet of
FOR H/iCKNFT COACHES.
Pine-llrect, north fide fcom FourUi to Fifth
Fifth-ftreet, between Cliefnut and Walnut
north fide, between Third and
Eourth ftretts. •
July 14. Hiwfcfiia
A Literary Treat.
Jujl put lifted, handsomely printed on writing
papery price I dollar,
A new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, *iif!t!cd
FORESTERS, aji Afhecican Tale ;
a flquel to the htilory of John Bull, th* Clo
thier—ln afericsof letters to a friend, with the ad
dition of two letters, aliu.Ung to recctit political
t ran faction * iu America. i,
Th<» following exfratf from the Clnvln
fliovs the'pnivcrpal characters that arc innoduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom' of i' ngfatjd
Mother, thcCl urch of EnglJcd
Hie, Wife, tiie
His Sifter lVg„ the * hurch of Scotland
Hi* Brother i'attick. Ireland
Lewi*, the-K-ngdori* of France
His Miiftrcfv, the Old Conflitution
His new Wife, the National Representation
Lord fyrut. the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, tJ*<rDu?ch Republic
The Franks, the- French Republic
The Foresters, the United Mate* of Americ a
Robert Lumber, New-Hampfl'iire |
John Maffachufctts
Humphrey Plowfhaie, Connc&icut
Roger Carrier, Rhode Illand
J Peter Bull Frog;, New-York
JulitH Cadfar, New-Jersey
William Broadbrim, Pemifylvania
Caflimar, Delaware
Walter Pipe wood, Virginia
Hi« Grancjlon, George-Walhington
Peter Pifch, North Carolina
Ch rlcs Indigo, South Carolina "
George Truljy, Georgia
F.than Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slave*
Rats, Speculators "
Mother Carey'* Chickens, Jacobins
This popular and entertainingfatirical histo
ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel
knap. It hasa great (hare of originality and a
bounds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and choraAerifeii those
late political tranfa&ons which have caused so
much uneasiness in America.
Sold by H. and P. RICK, Bookseller, No. 16,
Soufh Second Street, and No. 50, Marke* ftaeet.
June 26. §
LAW BOOKS,
Latefl London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE;, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second,
HAVE just received by the lite arrivals from
Loiyion and Dublin, their fpriig importa
tien, confiding of a variety of the lattft and most
approved 1 ,aw Books, whici, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the most extenlive <olleflion ev
er offered for file in this country. Theytheiifore
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their
connc&icnsin Dublin, they are enabled to fellli;ifh
editions (as they have hitherto at the very
"lowed The following are among the lateit
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, %
Ptake's Cases at Nifl Prius ; Ridgeway't Repferti
in the time of X.ord Hardwicka ; Floyer's Procters
Pra&ice in the Ecciefiaftical Courts; Barton's
Trcatifc on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Practice of
the gourt of King's Bench in Personal Aflions,"!
parts complete j Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Use« ; modern Reports, 1 a vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rici eipeift t« receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, the ad part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 16.
The History of Pennfyfvania,
Bv ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in tht pref», and will be publilhed,
with all convenient expedition, by ZfCHA
riah Poolsot), jun. No. go, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, ami at the Philadelphia Library,
according to tbe pr-inted propcfals, until the
work is ready for the fubferibers.
July 18. aawtf
Printed Calicoes. •
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co. -
' No. 8 Cbtjnut-Strect,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS aeatly ailarted, very low on
thort credit.
March 6. Jjf §
Richard and James Totter
removed their Counting House to No.
145 *juth Fifth-ftreet. * > 1
luguft a. w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijburgh Carlijle,
Shippenjburg and Sunbury >
STAGES. -
THE public are requested to take notice, tha«
the partnership which has f«r Tome time sub
sisted betwean Matnias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now dissolved: but, not as M.
Slough infinuatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
jc(st from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman who wilhes to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal ef M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfe&ly jtiftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippcnf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this business, William Geer, in conjunction with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with eveiy care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poflibly exert v
The above company, wljo are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
those wno wilh to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, th£ sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday,'to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlifte and Shippcnfburg. The fare as hitherto
established.
, For the further -accommodation of the public,
a Stage will start every Wtiff i-fday from the house
of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland tounty, every Thurlday,
and return from thence and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that passengers deftfned for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 17, 1797-
N. B. This Line of Stages ftart6 from th«
house of William Ferric, in LancafUr, on every
Tnef'day ai.'d Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harnfburg every Wedncf
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburgi and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing rhe
fame routina daily at in its K>ur from Philadel
phia. mwf
Advcitifement. s
On the loth of November next in ; AU-xst\df':*
(being court day), will be cxnofed for l'.-le one
or more covering fewer*! yqwig
ones of different ages aiiclO.es; all deft-ended
from Rofal fejffc (an imported JatVfpmß|>Jjn,
iipwarfls of y hands fifcli-} <""! of iinporttd .
fmnies'Trom Ajalu, full M hands high. I '
The terms of iale (or f"4d, of letting
them fir one or more lVafo'irs lo cwsr) will
tin" be nr.nV known : tW; payments may be
made easy to the purclia(fr,'f;Ond and feturity
being gi»ct> for tlie arm) urn. with intet eft.
At the fame time 2nd p'acr, sundry
Horf.j and Msves will be oftred for Tale. Tine
latter having been to the Jack?, aie probably >
with foal. ~ *
JAMES Manager. ,
ount-Verni.n, »i th\
September, *,797. > I'au-ijw
Iniurance' Company of the State ]
of I'cMnfylvania. [;••
"PHF, Office will b« kept until fur»h?r notice at \
i tho School House fc Gcrmantown. The i
Company fiill reta/p the room in Chcfnift« ab«*v« '
Seventh ftrtet, where a pcrlon will attend to rt:-
ftciire and give .ani'wers to applications, every day
from 10 Until i o'clock.
■ tSent ?v difc?awtf
Thomas Ann at and Son,
O F PHI I! A D£i. PHIA,
INFORM their cuOomers a»d the public, they ,
ha,vc? removed a part of thetr merchandize to
Wilmington ;'Alfo, they h »ve their store open in 1
the city. At either place their fliends can be sup- :
plied, and their orders carefully attended to
By the Cumberland, from Hull, they have re- 1
ceived a haudfome afif«»rtmertt of at tides, suitable
to the approaching fcafon ; and cxpc& to add to it
by other fall (hips.
Should the prevail in th« central part of
the city, that branch of their bufincft will be re
moved to GcrmaiUown.
ss* The communication by post it open and re*
gular as usual.
Sept. tB. tj»tf
TO BE SOLD VERT CHEAP! \
A I.ight WAGGON almofl new, with a frame— i
?pd a pair of lMrnefs (Epglifh collars) has never
been«iteH—price >9O Oollj.
A Horse t,6 hand* high, seven years sld— and .a
new chair, with a falling top and harness— 3 10 -
Enquire No. 331, Markct-flreet
August H- diw
Fcr" sale or to be let on
. 'rent,
A valuable Lot qf Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-cart corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State- i
House Fqnare. This lot is flfty-one feet front !
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen 1
.feet and an half on Fifth ftrpet ; there are at |
prelent two small two story brick houses, and a j
number of small tenements thereon.
Alji, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
Witb qpnveniint stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saffafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four fret, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninf:y-five fe«t, then widening to tht
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thtfe houses
ave the c.onveni«nce of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very desirable filia
tion foi*a merchant, flour fasor,or others who
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
for ca(h. For further information apply tiMhe
printer.
July 31. m&wtf
TOp ETOTB; r_
And pojftjjion given immediately,,
A LARGE two story brick Houfe,handfomely
situated in Prihceton. There are four rooms
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of baek buildings 51 feet in
length, and a piaxza of pj feet. There is a pump
in the yard, an excefleut kitchen garden, at thjr
farther end of which are a carriage, house and two
stables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
Halls ia the two stables for 17 hor/es. The hcal
thinefs and pleasantness ol its situation, and tha
number of genteil and agreeable families!" and
n«ar the town, rctyfejr it a desirable rctreeat for a
gentleman from the city. The comiandioufnefs of
the hmife, its central position, and the largenafs of
the stables, make it l , every way suitable for a tavern ,for
which it has always been eonfiderd as a capital
ftaad. Inquire on the premises. of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. I,} —diwia.wtf
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magniEeenylwelling-houfe 10,000 dollars,
h. ca(h to,ooo, tre .jb.ooc
1 ditto ij,doo & eafk 15,000 40,000
1 dhto-15,000 h cafli 15,000 30,000
1 -ditto 10,000 & cart) io,<J?So »0,000
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
t ditto 5,000 & cafb 5,000 10,000
t ca(h prize of ro,ooo
» do. s,oooeach, art • ro,ooo
lo cki. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
a© do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
100 d<». 50 - - 10,000
400 do. »5 - - 10,000
1,000 do. v ao - 10,00..
15,000 do. 10 - 159,000
nS.'VTg Prires.
33,161 Blanks.
50,000 Titketn, at Eight Dollars, 400,000-
N. B. To favour thofc who may take a quan
tity ot Tickets,the priie of 40,000 dollars will be
the l <vst drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the i.a.st
but dks:
And approved notes, securing payment in either
money or prizes, ill ten days alter drawing, will
be received foi anyflumber not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant ef
the private buildings to be ert'Scd in the City ol
Walhington—T\*o beautiful designs are already
ieleifted for the entire fronts 011 two of the public
fquar<»; fnvn these drawings it ispropofed toereel
two centrcand r huilding6,as soon aspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventnrsrs, in
the manner defcxibed in the ftheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will
be made to dtfray'the neccffary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the fflrplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Umveriity, to
be eiefled within the city of WalhingtOn.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment cf the
Prizes, are held by the Prefidsnt and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
.§, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colsm
l»a 5 of James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Fcter
Gilman, Boston : of John Hepkins, Richmond ;
'and of Richard W«lls, Cooper's Fciry.
This Day Publiflied,
And to be fold by WILLIAM,YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefuut streets,
Price 3-Bths of a Dollar f )
Obfervaticm on certain Documents
Contained in No. V ind VI of i
" The History of the United States for
the year 1 796/'
In which the cu u<or. or geccufcATio^
ALEXANDER HAMIL TON,
Lute SecrctaaV of the Trtasury, is FULiY
REFU fH>L>.
wrlr tan uv is rmsr lr.
This publication prciVnts a Cvyiic.l'e (latemcnt
of the bale means praclifed by the of the
United 6taces to afpeil'e the of thofc
p*rfons who «rc confuitred a- huftij# to the»r d'ifor
gai iziiig ichemes. s . It aH'o contains the cor
rcfpotidenc..' btftWCtn Mr. Hamilton and M-JT: -.
Monroe, Muhlenbtii gn i.>td Vt mjb'c, on the'fu(>-
je<st of the documents a'oreVaid, apd.a ft ries of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wil'c to
milton, proving beyond the poflVftiliry oi ad->wbt,
that the connection between him and Reynolds,
was the rvl'ult of a daring eonfpii'acy cu the jiart
of the latter and his ufiociates to extort mopcy.
A discount of one third from the retail prLe
will be made in "favor ot
cash. Orders to be adurcfled to Mr, "Yowrg.
A/Slfvfl 25.
No. 188,
Diflrit7 of Pennsylvania, to wit :
, L , l>K \l REMthat on the
13 twenty fixfh day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independeuce of the United
States of America, Jomk FeWno, of the said dif
trivfl, hath deposited in this office the title of a oook,
the rijht whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit :
" Observations on certain documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of " of the Unit*
" ed States for the y«*ar 1796,' in which th« charge
" of speculation, againll Alexander Hartiilton, late
u Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
" Written by himfeif "
In conformity to the ait of the Corgrefs of the
Ucrted States, entituled, " An aft for the encour
agement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors an<? propri
etors of such copies, during th« times therein men*
tiQned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Dijlricl of Pennsylvania.
July 17. W4W
The Inhabitants of the
of Southwark,
A RE informed that a Coachee is provided, to ha
ii kept at the Constables' office, the north east
esrncr of Front and Almond streets, where the
friends of those sick perfofls who defirc to be re
moved to the City Hospital, arc requeued to make
application—Also, a Hearse Will be kept in rcadi
nefs for the removal ef the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSK.
N. B,— rhe Poor, who wish to remove to the
Tents oo Schuylkill, may befurnifced with orders
by applying as abova. . . Au%. 19
William Blackburn,
LOTTERr ANt> BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 south Second-?reet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
coramanced drawing the 29th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thou fa nd dollars each, on the lift day oi
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination and register
ing, in the Canal, No. a, City of Waflijngton.Noc
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets forfalein the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the course of the summer.
The buline(s of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &c. tranfa&ed with the
utmofi actcntion. ,
June t »i fr f
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
ROBERT CAMPBF.LL & Co.
1 No 40 Sotuh Second street,
M [Price 11 Cents]
A View of the Causes ana Confequeri
ces of the present Jjfar with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May 1 $ §
~STATE TRIALS.
Sold b W. Young, Bookseller, No. South Se
~ cond-ftreet,
The Penafylvania State Trials,
CONtr.ining the impeachment, trial, and acquit
al of Frar.cisHopkinfen, Judge ol the Court of
Admiralty, and John N'icholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general afTortmentof
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
ege, well aflorted, and entitled to the drawback if
exported. July 7 —♦
For Sale,
That well known place, called Vjndeqrift's
f r R R Y,
ON Nefhaminy creek, 18 tn'des from'Phila
ladelphia, on the New Yoik post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perchei. Upon the
pr« mi£es are a large two fiery ftor.e house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story. (lone kit
chen, a large frame liable with a good threfliing
floor, and fpme out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a rtioft elegant situation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny toils juni£lion a iih the Delawase, and thence
across to' the Jersey shore. ft has the privilege
of one half Ihe toll received from the bfidge.
for terms apply to the Sohlcriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS. _
yav 14- atawtf."
"COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpeif, returns iwr sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
file has received during four years residence in
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends ami the
public, so far from intending to decline her
fchoH, she has made a fupertor arrangement for
the more convenient accomrtHxiation of her
scholars.—Every branch of' ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs
' Groornbridge and matters cxfceliing in their
refpecSive profrflVons.
Corner of and Eleventh Streets.'
June oh, 1797- slmjtf
The'fituatian is
more agreeabltby an extensive garden and lot
Qfgrolind adjoining the houle-
, Jttji Pi'blijted,
And to be had of WefTrs. 001-fon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other p'ricipil Bookfcllen in the
city,price cue dollar, twinty-fivc cents,in hoards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN 'SMITH bXrTON, u. n.
June io.
mwf
Rofs £sf Simfon,
have for sale—
s Hoglhcads,
Excellent Coffee in \ Tierces, and
" C. Parrels.
A (mil! pircc! of nbe cocoa in ba»<
* few rtfnchcriins Jamaica spirits, fourth proof
Superior Te'erjfife» wme.jotd an ! in Madeira-pipe*
AIJ invoice of jewellery »ud hoficry to be fold by
rfi»packat;e
A few l«impirs •! best checfe,
T"'y *7- dtf.
The Subftribcr has for Sale,
A targe sfiortment ®f India Mufliiis,
Coarse atid fmc
India Calicoes
Sooty R onrt'ls
B'ue Cloths and Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Giili Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irish Lineusand Sheetiagi, wefl
adopted .
A box of Uiapers
Silk Umbrella*
Twr # boxes «f fine Spices, cotaining Nutmegs,
M ice aad Cloves
Black Pepper of firft quality
Fall Itidi.i Ginger
Java Sugar •
A quantity of Madeira Wine
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brim (lone
Mordecai Lewis.
. dupufl Tl. sflWlra
Higgins' ' pecific
FOR THI
PREVENTION AND CURE OF THE
YELLOW FEVER.
EVER since this diftafe made fnch ravage? in thin
i city and New-York, the author has turned his
attention to itscaufes and eure.—The result of his
enquiries has convinced him that the reason why so
few persons recover from its attacks, are frem its
not being well underflood, and the consequent
wrong method tal en to cure it. He is perfu'aded
that the excessive bliedigns and roercurrcl rentmeßt
of the Faculty i« highly injurious, and that the on
ly rational mode of treatment is by theufe of proper
acids. Convinced of this he offers his Spnific as a
certain remedy, if used according to the directions.
To be had in bottles, at one dollar each, of the
inventor On. Uigguu, Cherry street, two, doors 5-
bove Ninth street, (late manager of Jaekfon ami
Co's Medicine 'Warehouse, London); by J. Le
itanc, Uo. 1-6 ; IV. GriJJiti.Ho. 117,7'. Pctrer, No.
91, South Third ftre>-t, T. Stiff, He, flreet,
near Vine ftneet, and J. Gain, No. 36, Race street.
Aug. ij. tuths Jt
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just rsceived, by W». Guiffiths,No. 177, South
Second-street, a frefli supply of
Genuine Balsam of Honey,
A Medicine invfntedby the late Sir John Hill
(who knowledge as aßotarift procured him
the appellation of the Linnseus of Britain) and is
sonfidered in England as a ttrtain enrc for the above
complaints; it is also of Angular efficacy in the ,
Hooping Cough,
It may also be had retail of W. A. Stokis, No.
61, South Second-street, and T. Stiff, jj, New
ftrset, in bottles at 7; cents each.
Wm. Griffiths having observed the happy tf
(e& of the medicine, (several cases of cures hav» 1
ing come within his own knowledge) and the great
demand for ft lias induced him to order a large
supply, a part of which he has just received.
u J> i- iaw3w
30 Dollars Reward.
f
RA N away on Saturday last, two indented Ser
vants, Oifford Dally, a mulatto boy about 17
years of age, a Aim light built afiive fallow, can
read and write,five feet fe*en or eight inches high,
has a heavy counteaance ; had on a fufcian coatee
and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine shoes &<>.
Allan Hellons, a black man, atout 14 years of
age, five fife seven or eight inches high, a thict set
clu 11 if built Wliow, particularly about the breech;
l>ad 011 a Tailor's blue jackft lineu witl. fwafifkin,
dark ftfiped vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
hit, coarse shoes, Ac.; each of them had several
Ihirts and several other cloathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, qr 15 dol
lar* for and reafonahle charges, os delivering
them at No. 54, North Third-ftrect.
th« black fellow is about a year from Lewis
Town, in the jl'ounty of Shffcx, fts.te of !>c!-i
---ware, ihd has taken the boy withhim.
July 31. / I irituWjw
To be SOLD or RENTED,
ALiR<JE j Story Bfict Hrtifi, on the
South fid* of Filbert street, between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
veyor General's Office.
The Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet deep,
the lot 110 feet de?p, with the privilege of a nine
feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
to turn in. The House 13 not jlaftered 1 , and
miy be turned either into one, or two dwelling
Houses. It is suitable for a large Manufactory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
poflfeffion will be given.
Appljp to No. tit, Chefnut-S'rert.
.Aug. 21. cod^t.
Mujical Injlrument Manufa£lor)\
No. 167, Arch Street.
HARPER, harpsichord,gran4, portable gra>d,
fid>board, pier table and fqusxe piano forte
makirfrom London, returns thacksto his friev.cJs
and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
mnd h6pes that by his afiiduity and attention to ev
ery branch of his business, totrerit a cortiiiuanc'B
of their favors. Piano fortes made on th«
and melt approved plans, with pedals, patenr,
♦veil, and French harp stop, which hefiittei*
himfclf Will ue ,found on trial by unprejudiced
judges, to beSaual if not fuperiJrto any import*
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inllr*
mint purcha/ed of him, il cot in
twtlve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of M«fic il inftrumenti made,
ur.. d, and repa'ref with the greatest ai.ruracy,
dispatch, and 011 the mod ml'onablc Ut
ready money only.
Second h-nd Piano Fortes taken in exchange.
May ir.. Ajm .
Forty Liollars Reward.
RAN away from the fubl'criber on the fecj
ond day of this inft. July, a Mulatto Man,
named Will Bowzer, about forty years of age,
five feet seven or eight iiiehes high, rather
chunky made ; had ou when he went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, striped purple troWers
and jacket. It is probable he will change, his
cloathes, as he took a number with him. The
• ftiil fellow formerly belonged to Mr- Charles
BJake of this place ; and it is expeited he has
mads towards Jones's Neck, :n the Delaware
State. —Any peri'on apprehending the fcid fel
low, and securing him so that I can get him a
• glin, shall receive the above reward if taken
; out of the county, and Twenty, Dollars if in
' the county, asd all rsafonable charges if bro't
home* '
JESSE REED,
Qirtfcn Ann's County, Maryland.
July 3. ***
July 3-