of tj)c States, ANB PhiladeJphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1609.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DR r GOODS,
f Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. 56,
Manda J south Front-street,
J j Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
(, South Front-street.-
f' Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
"EutMn ) No. 73 fout'h Front-street.
Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C 183 High-street. ■«
f J"'"- N °-"
eru rj _ ? Forenoon—Edward Fox.
* ( Afternoon—John Connelly.
jf . , 7 Forenoon—William Shannon.
r> J Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
For sale by the Subscriber,
No 89, South Third street, 4
A few casks of high proof Brandy
60 Tierces frefti Rice
40 Boxes of Chocolate
A large quantity of aborted window glafV, and
*2OO pieces fail cloth, No/1 to 8
Ravens Duck, Mace and Gum Senegal.
Samuel Breck, Jun.
N. B An excellent Compting House to let on
Rolls's wharf.
November 2 6teod
REMOVAL.
Maurice Moynihan,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he
has removal his Store of China, Glats, Queens
Ware, and Dry Goods, from No. 81 Norili Se
cond, to No. 71 North Seventh Street, north eafl
corner of Cherry Alley, where he solicits the fa
vor ofhis former cuftumtrs.
N. 13. Crates put up with care at the (horteft
notice.
Nevembcr ». dtf
T0 Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114, corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. Q6L. 27 —dtf
Samuel Pleafants & Sons,
No. 74, South SecondJlreety
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on
reasonable term 3. Q<St 27. —4 W
St.'Croix Sugar Iff Rum,
For Sale by
JOHN NIXON b 1 Co.
OSt. 96. . d2w.
James & Richard Smith,
TAKE the liberty of informing their friends
and the public, that they have removed their
store to No. 54, South frontJlreet, nest d»or to Ed
ward Fox's Au&ion Room, where they have at
tjiis time for sale, a large and eencral allbrtment of
European iff Eaji India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
V'illiam Pcnn, &c. &c.
Oil. 27. 4
Now Landing,
At SrMs* Wharf, from 011 board the iliip Commerce,
captain Cu amber lain, from Port au Prince,
35 hogsheads of SUGAR
84 do. MOLASSES
4 tierces do.
FOR SALE, BT
Philips, Cramond, iff Co.
o«a. 27. N §
The Subscribers have for Sale,
THE FOLLOWING GOODS—viz.
India Calicos Cordage
Baftas MouldCa'idlei") jnfmall
Sutly Romals White Soap J boxes
Blue and red do. East Ind» Sugar
Hummums Heavy black Pepper
Mulmuls Holland Gin, in pipes
Do. Handkerchiefs Red & white Port Wine
Sprigged and flowered Old Mad«ira Wine, fit
fine Muslins , for immediate use
Book Muslins Sherry
B-d Covers, of printed Claret, in cases
Muflln Taunton Ale
India Persians Knglilh Porter
]j orcas 42 qr. calks Gun Powder
Black Taffeties A wrought iron Book
Chinese Sewing Silks Cafe
East India Hemp
Philips, Cramond, £ff Co.
'November I. §6t
TO BE SOLD,
And immediate pojfejjion given,
AConveipeut well finiihed Brick Tenement,
with a cook house and other out houfes,fitu
atcd in a pleasant part of the borough of Wilming
ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
has forty feet front on West-street, and extends
through the square to Paflure-ftreet, on which is
<ereded a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. 30.
Philadelphia, 03. 13.
THE fubferibers inform their friends and cuflo
mers in town and country, that their flores are now
open in the city, and others are daily opening, and
that frotatke present appearance of the prevailing
disorder have reason to hope, their friends may
ftortly come to the city with perfect fafcty. By
several late arrivals, numbers-have received frefe
supplies of GOODS.
Robert Smith Co. P. IV. Gallaudet IS Ci.
John Daw & Co. Sitgreanes iSj French,
Neill if? Smith, George Dobfon,
Hlltberger and Smith, Thomes Ryer/on,
Alex Biijland and Co. T. R. Hardenberg.
Jacob Sperry and Co. John Smith and Co-
Owen Iff Jonii. Jones, Thomas Orr,
Keppele U Zantzinger, William Barker 13 Co.
Adam 7.antzmger, Thomas Armat 15 Son.
John Fries, J■ Miller, Jun. and Co.
Benjamin Iff "J- John/on.
oa. 14
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given; to be tiken for a year, or on
lease for a longer term. Inquireof ths Printer.
Oft. 17. cots
PHILADELPHIA:
For Liverpool,
The Ship
CLOTHIER,
'Aw NathanielD. Gardner,majler,
fail about the icth
fage apply to the Captain, at Vaauxem's wharf,
or to JAMES OLDDEN,
nov. 3. dtf No 41, N. Front-street.
For Baltimore,
Betsey & Peggy,
John Stran, Majler,
A VERY faft failing veflVl, with good accommo
dations for Paflcngers—Now lying at the whart next
below Market-ftrect. She has about half her cargo
on board, and will be ready to depart in a few days v
For freight or passage apply to the Mailer on board,
or to
Samuel & Miers Fijher.
11 mo t. dflt
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By ship Edward, from Madeira, and Betsey and
fro™ Oporto, in Pipes and Hoglheads,
For sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALI,
The Ship
AMITY,
Foufthoufand barrels burthen,
in excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo—about three years eld.
LIKtWISK,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 barrels, ready also to receive a car
go —and a quantity of (
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Just landed from the above velfels at South ftrcet
wharf. eoim. Nov. I.
J? or London,
willijm"penn,
James Jofiah, Majler,
Eyiljfl'TT 7"II.I. fail with all conven-
JSfflaCSßfetS VV ient expedition. For
Freight or Paflage, apply to the Captain, er to
JeJTe & Robert Wain.
OA.
For Charter,
THE SHIP
John Bulk ley,
Samuel Volaris, Majler.
veffcl is built of live oak
iyoj■ 1 J anc j cc dar, of about 3000
barrels burthen, and ready to receive on board a
cargo.
JeJfe Iff Robert Wain.
OA. 31. §_
For SAVANNAH,
Tkl rAST SAILING ship
Swift Packet,
Patrick Gribbin, Majler.
NOW lying at Smith's wharf,
above Race-street. Is haudfome
ly accommodated for palTengers, and will fail with
all convenient fpeeJ. For freight or palTagc.appiy
to the Maftcr on board, or at No. 95, South
Front-street, or of the fubferibers,
N. iff y. Frazier.
oa. *B. dtf
For St. Thom as's,
THE DANISH BRIG
Prince Frederick,
Francis Geolfi, Majler.
WILL fail with all convenient Jpoed, having
the greater pajt of her cargo ready to go
on board. For Freight or Paflage, apply to the
Captain, or to JOSEPH SIMS.
OA. 28. §6t
For Lone}on,
THE SHIP
Daniel M'Phcrfon, Majler.
Tp fail with all convenient speed—a conlidera
blc part of her cargo beins; already engaged.
For terms of Freighter Paflage, apply to
Rofs Iff Sim/on.
Ofl. 27.
For Freight or Charter,
Abel Catherina,
Burthen about 160 tons.
THIS veflel is now ready to receive on board a
cargo, and may be dispatched to any port in Eu
rope or the Mediterranean in eight days.
Apply to the Captain on board, or to the fubferi
ber. JAMES YARD.
Ofl 10.-. diet
'
For Freight or Charter,
THE GOOD BRIG
-Jplk S U K E Y,
Isaac Vredenburg, Maftcr ;
""NOWlying at Clifford's wharl,and in compleat
order to receive a cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain en board, or
fahn Siyrin,
No. 81, Arch-street.
WHO HAS FOR SALE, ,
2000 wt.of double refined Saltpetr.e
600 wt. of F F Gun Powder
300 barrels of Herrings v
50 bulhels of Timothy Seed
150 cafe? of Claret, firft quality
And a quantity of Sherry Wine.
Sept. 29. dtf
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing from on board the
Brig A.stive, William Williams, Master,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale by
Jehu Hollingfworth & Co.
Wilmington, Sept. 21. Hrf
the brig GAYOSO, are
also for Sale or Charter, and
j, ■ | t now ready to receive a cargo
on board, at Wilmington. Apply as above.
By John Fenno, N° up Chefnut Street.
For Amsterdam,
The Ship
WILMINGTON,
Captain Hitman ;
A Staunch, fsft foiling, Phi
£\_ ladelphia built vessel, of
live oak and cedar, is now in complete order, and
will fail with all poflible speed, having great part of
her cargo already engaged. For freight or pas
sage (having excellent accommodations) ?pply to
the captain on board, or to
Summer I Brown.
IVho have on hand,
Gonaives Cotton, Sugar, Mo
lasses, and a few thousand weight of eicellent Cor
dage, including several Cables of 84 &11 inibes.
November 3. tuth&stf
FOR SALE, ~
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
Nr.. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front ilreets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Also, a general afiortment of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, eonfifling of Clock Move
ments, e;ght day and thirty hour brass pinions
and lerge work ; Bells, clock aad watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glasses, Puaiioe Stone, Emery,
Rotten Stone, Cat Gut; bench, fland and taiT
Vires; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals,Keys, Set. &c.
%* Apprentices Wanted.
novenlnT 3. f&tutf
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by th'- brig Iris, capt. Rhodes, from
Oporto,
Red Port Wine in pipe*,hhds. and quarter calks
60 cwt. Cork, for sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
July *r. ■ ' - a : $
From Marfeillesi
THE CARGO
Of the Swedilh barque Gullavus A(folphus,from
Marseilles, confiiiing of the following articles,
isdifcherging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
lals by the fubferibers
BRANDY, well flavored, of 2, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hoglheads
Ditlo, in cases
Frontigniac Wine, in cases of 30 bottles
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in baflcets of 6
and 1 z bottles
Capers
Olives
Almonds
Dry Verdigreafe
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) of 18, 30 and ji inches
Taffeties
Long and Ihort white Kid Gloves far Women
Silk Stockings
Handkerchiefs, in imitation of Madrafs
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Ostrich Feathers
Ribbons
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
Manna in fori* . , !
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANDREWS.
September 27. eotf
Imported inthefhip Manchester,
Benjamin Shewell, Master,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
No. 11 Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy "J
Irilh market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. J Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
P*HAT agreeably to an ait of Congress of the
X United States of America, patted at Phila
delphia, the 28th day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ti«s on Carriages, for the conveyance of persons,
which shall be kept by or for any person, for his
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of passengers, the several duties and
rates/oliowing, to wit :
For and upon every Ccach, 15 dols.
upon every Chariot, 12 dols.
upon every Post Chariot, 12 d«l».
upon every Post Chaise, 12 dols.
upon every Phaeton, with et without top,
9 dols.
upon every Coachee,9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having pannelwork
above, with blinds, glalTes or curtains,
9 dols.
upon feur wheeled Carriages, having fra
med polls and topi with Heel springs,6
dols.
* upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
enfir iron springs or jacks, 3 dols.
upon Curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel topcarriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with tteel or
iron springs, 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 2 dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed posts and '.Ops, and relling up
on wooden spars, 2 dols.
The Colle&ors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Diftri6t of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September next, for
the put pose of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
Germantown ; at the house of Darilel St. Clair,Efq.
in the County of Montgomery; and at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ;
of which allperfonspofleffed of such Carriages
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in V. ines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will bs grant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the busi
ness of retailing of Wines, in a lrfs quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than 20 gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorised te grant such licences.
wri.LIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeilor of the Revenue of the firft fui
veyof theDiftriftof Pennsylvania.
Office of Infpe&ion at 7 j lm
Germantow, I2th Sept. 1797- j
SATURDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 4, 1797.
Clocks and Watches,
Of every defejiption, opening for Sale, by
' EPHRAIM CLARK,
At his New Ship, Corrtrr of
MARKET and FRONT STREETS.
ALSO
An extensive and general afiortment of
T®ols, Files, and Materials.
CONSISTING OF
Clock Movements and Clock Dials, eight day
and thirty hours cast brass, forged work and Pin
ions, Belis and HSnds, Cat Gut, fcrevv and draw
Plates, Turkey Stones, Pumice, Em?ry and Rot
ten Stpne, Springs and GlilTes, Chains Keys, Seals
&c &c. Spring and (landing Clocks.
03. 27. eotf
ROSS bf SIMS ON;
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Goflas,
a quantity of Bengal COITON
Bengal SUGAR, in Lags and boxes
Jamaica, }
St. Vincents, ( RUM.
and Bengal J /
Oil 27.
Samuel 6c Miers i?'iflitr,
ARE NOW OPEMING,
At their Warehouse, No. 27, Dock Street, a frefh
affortmcnt of Woolen and other goods, fuitablc to
the season, received by the late arrivalt from ling
land.
They have also for Safe,
Lisbon
Sherryf and ( In P i P es » hhds - and garter caiks-
Port Wines, J
A fforted queen's ware in crates, See.
loth mo* 23d. , diw3taw3w.
Injurance Company of the State of
Pennsylvania.
THE Oflice is again opened at the corner of
Walnut and Second llreets, where applications are
received as usual. eo3t Oil 28.
TO BE LET—At a moderate Rent,
The principal part of aHOUSE,
WITHIN & Ihort diflanne of the Coffee-houfe,
which has been occupied far the lad four months,
confilling of a good dining room and parlour, two
be d rooms and a drefling room, two garrets, kitch
en, wood vault and cellar, all in excellent order,
fit for the immediate reception of a small family.
None need apply but those who are refpe&able and
regular. Inquire at the office of this Gazette.
OA. 14. dtf
Wants a Place, as a WET NURSE,
A YOUNG Woman, who can be well recom
mended.—Enquire of the Printer.
Oftober 31. iw
Boston Glass Manufactory.
'"P'HE citizens of the Ohited States are hereby
X informed, that the manufacture of Window '
Glass is now comnaeneed at the Glass House in Bos
ton.
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boston Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the United States to be in every refped
greatly superior to any ever imported from Europe.
It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
may be constantly had by applying to Ciarles F.
Kuffzr, at the Glal's House.
Orders from the distant States to be addrefled to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-street, Boston.
Boston, Sept 30,1797. O4—2aw6w
Mfjfrt. Timothy and Maf§n, Chtirirjitn ; Mejfn.
Hodge and Bpylan, Halifax, N. C. Mejfn. lYillett
and 0* Connor, Norfolk ; Mr. Ellis Price, Alexandria ;
Mejfrs. Yundt and Brown, Baltimore ; Mr. Hopkins,
Nctu-York ; and Mejfrs. Hudson Goodwin, Halt'
ford; Mr. Seymour, SavannaL ; are requejled to insert
tbe above once a weei 6 weeis. The accounts to be for
warded to tbe Editor.
At a Meeting of the Board of
Property, June 6, 1797j
Present John Hall, Sea'ry.
Francis Johnflon, R. G. > oflandofiice
Dan. Brodhead, S. G.J
Nicholas Hettinger,
Versus >
Samuel Cunningham.)
In this cafe the proof of service of notice be
ing inefficient, It isordered that notice begir
en in one of the Philadelphia and York newspa
pers weekly, for at least eight weeks to the
heirs or aflignees of Samuel Cunningham de
ceased, to atttend the board on the firlt Monday
jn November next, to shew cauie why a patent
fbould not ifliie to Nicholas Bettingei for the
land in quefiion.
(A true Copy.)
JOHN HALL,
Secretary of the Land Office.
Aug. 15. *iawßw.
At the Federal Blast Furnace,
In Carvei—-for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
M 1 L is.
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THEIR superiority conjjls in being free from
holes and honey-combed places, which are com
monly found in rollers cast in sand, or clay
moulds. Thefc patent rollers are caji in iron
moulds, previoujly heated, and will be found to
be more dense, solid and durable than any rollers
heretofore used. Another important advantage
they, have over others, is, that the necks require
no turning, but are immedaitely fit for use, and
from their accuracy, run with less friftion, and
require less water to make them perform their
work. They may be had by application to the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Good
win, or of \MeJfrs. Thatcher and Hay ward
Boflon, Jug. 31. Sept. 19. §6l.
This Day is Publiflied,
BY Mess. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
other Book fellers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegant y printed on IVoDe paper, and Hot
prejfed,
By John Thompfen,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of caeh Constitution, and
clafling together their most impertant provisions,
under the several heads of administration ; with
Notes andObfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
b L. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States.
Bedicatcd to the People of the UnitedStatcs.
N. B. A few Copies printed 011 an inferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof a dellar.
February h , mwf
Landing,
From on board the Ihip Edward, at Walnut
ilreet Wharf (
London particular Madeira Wine,
of a fupcrior quality, For Sale by the subscriber.
Robert Andrews.
November j. e»tf
To be Sold,
A Valuable Plantation,
OF upwards of One Hundred Acres of Land*
well watered, in a healthy Croatian, about
fcven miles from this City ; the buildings may be
made to accommodate a larpc family, at a mode~
rate expense, and poffeflion had in a few we tin.
Part »f the purchase-money being paid, a reaion
able credit will be allowed for the remainder.
Enquire of the Printed,
november 3 mwftf
Wharton and Lewis,,
HAVE FOR S/il E,
At their Store and Iniurance Office for fhippmg,
No. 115, South Front ttreet,
Jamaica Rum, 4th proof, "> entitled to
Alicant Brandy, ift & id proof j drawback.
Madeira Wine, and
A few hogsheads of Juniper Berries.
October 31. " sot s
POYNTELL's
Paper Hangings Manufaflory,
No. 70, Chefnut-ftreet,
Where be has fur Sale,
AVERY extensive (lock, of every colour, and
of the molt approved patterns, suitable for
eery part of a house, with great variety of bor
ders to suit.
—Also —
A handsome afTortment of the mofl fafhionafcle
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
very bed p'ain Green and plain Blue,
With Pannel Papers and a rich variety of Borden.
November t. fo <; t
TENERIFFE WINE.
LANDING at Walnut-street wharf, TENE
PIFFE WINE, of excellent quality, in pipes and
half pipes, for Tale by JAMES TARD.
@dt. 10. eoßt
In the Erefs,
And speedily will be publilhed by William
Young, No. 52, Second, the corner of
Chefnut Street,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eftabliftied in ths elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M.D.
With an attempt to correift some important er
rors of that work, and cases in illustration, chief
ly felc&ed from the records of their prafticf, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br William Tatms & Chas. Maclean.
To which is subjoined, a Treatise on the a<3ion
of Mercury upon living kodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diseases of indirect debility.
Andadiflertation onthe sources of Epideraicand
Peftilentialdifeafes; in whichisattempted topreve
by a numerous induflion of fails, that they ne
ver arile from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain states, or certain vicissitudes of
the atmosphere, by Charles Maclean, of
Calcutta.
of *- sl2t
City Commiflioners Office,
August 29, 1797.
IN pursuance of an Ordinance of the Seled and
Common Councils, palled the I2d day of May last.
Proposals in writing will be received hy the City
Commiflioners for one month from the ift of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for one
year to commence the nrft day of January next, the
following public property of the city—
The wharf and landing on Vine Street,
Also 011 Saffafrae,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Draw Bridge, with
the Scale and Fish Houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The eellat- under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as shall be occupied by any buildings erect
ed for the use of the Colle&or of the Tolls, or be
necessary for the toll-gates.)
An g- 3 3tawim.
Imported in the latelt arrivals from
Amsterdam and Hamburg, andforfale by
B. Sjf J. Bohlen,
A large ajjortfhcnl of Jine French Cambrics,
Platillas RuffiaaudDutchfailcloth
Brittannias Writing, post, and print-
Kouanes ing paper
Brown Holland Dutch calf skins
Checks and stripes Prime madder
Ticklenburgs Shell'd Barley
Oznahurgs Looking glafles
White sheetings Hollow glass ware
Diaper Slates
Brown rolls Coffee mills
Umbrellas Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and straw knives
Black and white laces Toysafforted in boxes
Befl Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Madeira Wine
July 14» m&thtf
Just publiflied,
And to be fold at the Bookstores of H. £s" P.
Rice, No. 50, Market-street j J. Ormrod,
No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, and W. Young,
corner of Chefnut and Second-streets,
An accurate System of Surveying;
IN WHICH IS CONTAINED,
I. Decimal fractions, in a plain, concise,
and easy manner.
1. The extraiYion of the fquareroot.
3. Plain trigonometry, redlangular and ob
lique.
4. An exa& method to cast up the content*
of lands. y
.5. Field surveying.
The wholebeing performed without the use
of scale and compafles, on a table of logarithms.
I« which is given some accoußt of the variation
of the needle, and the causes of its attradlion.
By SAMUEL MOORE.
August r. iawt»
THE"MAYOR'S OFFICE
It KEPT, FOR THE PRESENT, ATTHE
CITY HALL.
•ept. J
[Volume XII.To he Sold at Public Audion,
Qa Saturday'evcniitft, Npv. 4, *97* at 8 o clock,
at the Merchants' Coffee-houfe,
doh. cts.
1 Note ('rawn h\ James Crecnlenf
favour of and cnHorfcU by Edward
For, d:itcd 9tli Augult, i796,dueTith
feft, 1 >3 co
3 f l o. drawn by said James Grecß
lc?,f in of and endorsed by Ed
v/ard Fox dated sth a uplift, Jby
4 months date, 1 payment dois. 2681 , /
.together 80.13 41 l^ 1
Zdo do. of fame date, drawn and £ UI
endorsed asaforelaid, payable in eight rtrii
months,paymcnti,dols. 2693 75 each, >p r(
■ amount together SOBI 2$
1, do. do. of fame date, drawn and
eudorfed as aforcfaid, payable in 12 . P a
months' payments, dais.
amount together » 8,081 25
_ - - va
45505 9 1 : ha
1 draft drawn by Robert Morris on
John Nicholfon, dated 28thMay, 1796, 111
at 11 months s°°°
I do. drawn asaforefaid,at two ca
years he
I do. drawn by John Niehol-
son, on Robert M«rri«, dated 28th
May, 1796, at 3>ears 5000
1 do. drawn as aforefaid, at 4 to
years 5° 00 \ ! of
The fai-l drafts are fecurcd by (baTes \
in the North America Land Company \ •
and endorsed fiy James Greenleaf i, 1 m
1 Note.datml Boflon, ]Bth May, at
17V?, drawn by Thomas Dawes, jun. 1 d;
in favor of Thomas Gieenloaf, paya- n{
blc ift January, I79B,eodorfed by Da
nicl Greenleal, Henry Newman and
v jamc Greenleaf 2250
I do. datedFoftonjlSthNoV.
drawn by Daniel Greenleaf, in favour oj
of Thomas Dawes, jun-payable ul Jan. w
1798, endorsed by Thomas Greenleaf, .
Henry Newman, and James Greenleaf 6500
3 Notes, dated Boston, 17th Nov.
1 795, drawn by Benjamin Halkell, in h
favour of James Greenleaf, payable tfl
January, 1799, endorsed by said James
Gwealeaf and Nahmn I'ay, dols» 5500
I j 00— ifcoo Bo®o
j do. dated Boston, 17th Nov. 1795,
drawn an 4 endorsed as aforcfaid, paya- tl
ble ift Jan. 1800, one payment, dols. F
6200,5000, 400© 15200 c
One bond, Zachariah Cox to James Greenleaf, 3
and afligned by him, dated the lift March, 179>> t
in the sum of ten thousand dollars, conditioned lor t]
the conveyance of 25000 acres of Land, near the v
town of Frederica in Glyn county and state of t
Georgia,the said bond lull due. r
John Connelly, attflioneer.
OA. aB. \
United States, 1 J
Pennfylvarlia DiftriS, y' <
IN pursuance ot a writ to me dircAed from the j
hom;rablc Ricb4*d Petcrs, Esq. Judge of the ,
Diilrict Court of 'Jic United States in and for the ,
FemfylvaniaDiltrJit, will be eipofcd to PUBLIC ,
i SALE, at the Cutlom-houfe, in the city of Phi- ]
ladclphia, on Friday, the 17th inft. at 11 o'clock ■
at npon,
2 hampers of Earthen Ware
I box of Indigo
I box of Merchandize
1 half barrel do.
10 bags of Coffee
j barrel of Silt Petre
t barrels}
x keg of Linens
1 trunk )
4 barrel of Sugar
I bag of Pepper, and
Part of 3 bags of Sugar
The 'ame having been libelled against, prosecuted
and condemned as forfeited, in the said Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marjhal.
Marlhal's Office, ?
ad November, 1707- >
United States, 1
Peunfylvania DiJlriS, j
IN pursuance of a writ to me direfied from the
honorable Rich ard Parens,Efq. Judge of the
Diftriift Court of the United States, in and for the
Pennsylvania DiftriA, will be crpofed to PUBLIC
SALE, at the Custom-house in the city of Phila
delphia, on Friday, the 17th inft. at II o'clock,
at noon,
354 Silver Watches
gold Watches
joo Watch Keys
The fame having been libelled against, prosecuted
and condemned as forfeited, in the said Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marjhal.
Marshal's Office, 7 j
ad November, 1797- J dts -
<Io be Sold, by Public Vendue,
On Monday, the 13th day of November next,
at 11 o'clock inthe forenoon, at the late dwel
ling plantation of Alexander Porter, l.lq.
deceased.in the Hundred and County of New-
Castle, , _
All the Stock of the said Farm,
ConfiHing of horses fit for draught or saddle,
Soils, faf cattle 1 , milch cows, calves, several
pairs of large and valuable oxen. SKeep and
hoes (all the horned cattle and Iheep, being of
a very large and fine breed) and also carts, har
rows, ploughs, and other farming utensils, to
gether with a variety of household furniture.
The conditions of Sale will be made known,
at the time and place aferefaid.
Mary Porter, Admrx.
New Ciftle Hundred, State of >
Delaware, o<3. ae, 1797- 5
All persons indebted to the eltate of the
ftid Alexander Porter, are requclled to make
payment, and those who have demands against
the fame, to produce them duly authenticated,
for settlement.
o<2t. 30.
03- University of Pennsylvania.
03ober 27, 1797.
THE different Schools of the University will be
opened on Monday, the 6th of November ; of
which, all who are concerned, are requested to
take notice. •
By order of tbe Faculty.
Vm. ROGERS, Secretary.
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Coffee
Madeira and Teneriffe Wine
For Sale by
'James Yard,
No. —, South Fourth-Breet.
OA- 6= d * W
"Wanted, a Wet Nurse.
AHeilthy Woman, with a good breast o
Milk, and fittufaftory recommendations,
»,ill hear of an agreetle fuuatisn, by applying
at the office of this G^cUe.
Nov. »> J797- v
y wc-g: The't
Tfjt <sasmt. - «¥i
| part <
PHILADELPHIA, ifrfw
SATURDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 4.
I
Ffor the Gavrtti of the United Si{ales. I*
/ mk. riNao, tjiou
Although difnlerejled benevolence is held t J' e
by/many to be an ideal thing, yet when * 01
we find individuals stepping forward in a Coltl
pUhlic cause, to encounter perils, under cir- tran
fnmftances which admit of no adequate re-
their conduft unquestionably ap- <( l U|
; proaches very near to this idea.
It is obvi6us that this rcfle&ion points * r .® r
particularly to the conduft of those phyfi- Hl S'
ciatis of Philadelphia, who have abode the '" r|l
(hock of the fiver. The death of several .
valuable members of the profeflion, who 111
have fallen vi&ims to the pestilence, is a at a
fufScient evidence of the hazards encoun
tered by all those who have attended to the 5*
calls of the afflidted ; and while the feeling ''' u
heart deplores the loss of a Way, in pii- v y cl
vate pra&icc* and of Dobel and Plea- the
•sants, in the line of public duty, it is led rat *
to form a high ellimate of the merits, both
'of the departed and the survivors.
But it is to the public hospital, where J en
' the fever has been encountered in all its alt
j moll malignant forms, that our attention is P '
j attrafted to the moll exalted contempt of '
\ danger, in the exertion of a generous be
nevolence. Drs. Stevens and Duffield . 1
here demand our most feeling acknowledg- int
pients, and our most peculiar regard.
.So some paflenger, efcap'd the pelting a v
of the pitiless ftorm,—from perilous blasts n<ll
which /hook his fragile bark, cheerily greets
pilot and the hardy mariner, but
for whose courage and whose hazards he t0
had bee* immersed in the briny wave.
An INDIVIDUAL. S"
Ri
From tbe (N. r.) COMMERCIAL ADVER TISES. clt
A friend has put into our bands a pamphlet by vc
the edifcr of the Maritime Courier, printed in an
Havre-de-Grace, entitled, " Observations on the
capture of the Juliana, capt. Hayward, &e."— lie
, The writer's remarks are pointedly severe against £
, the proceedings of the French tribunals, agjinft °
the d-reftory, and Merlin, minister of juflice; P 1 ;
: while he bestows great piaife on the tribunal at wl
f Havre, for pronouncing the seizure illegal He so
reprobates the idea of Merlin, in his letter to Mr.
Skipwith, in which he tells him, that the Amcri
can government ought to break the incomprehrnG
ble treaty with England. The writer declares it
impoflible for the Americans to tread back their I
steps, and impolitic in the French governmeot to ra
demand if. He docs not juftify every particular Jjl
e in the treaty with Great Britain ; but under the
B cireutnrtances, he seems to think it politic in the
c American government to have acceded to it. He J
mentions the benefits of recovering our western w
" posts, and indemnification for spoliations. He ol
k proves that it is impolitic in our government to
wage war with England, and still more impolitic
2 in the French government to compel us to join S. , j
Britain against France.
Ihe writer feya that ont of the wh.le of the u
wieck of the navies of France, Spain and Holland, IT
not half the number of (hips fan be fitted for sea, Cl
which England has in commiflion—And while
France can offer the Americans no aid en the ocean,
file cannot frighten them by menacing them with 5'
war. He remarks that the Americans will not 1S
be terrified, until the French navy is in a condi- e
tion to transport to our country the Moreaus and w
the Buonapartes, and their brave troops. j
The writer declares that the French, under the .
d decree of March id, seize and confifcats the Ame
rican property, in violation of alllbtformt of juJUcc. tl
He proceeds to state th- conferences of a rup- d
ture between France and the United States : which r(
would be te deprive France of our trade, and throw
more of it into the hands of the Englifh.—Altho'
w« have no fleets, yet, fays the writer, very just
ly, we could fit out great numbers of small ves
sels, which would cruise about the French and
le Spariifl» possessions, and cut off all supplies.—The
le Spanish provinces offer a field for plunder and con
be quell—supported by the Britilh marine, which 1
rC would be supplied with American mariners, they
a- might effsdl the conquest of Florida, Leuifiaia and
k, Mexico, a»d who knows, fays he, if the indepen
dence of the Spanilh provinces might not be rea
lized before the end of this war !
The author proceeds to prove that the regula- ,
tions of July »6,1778, which the decree of March
ad has revived and enforced, are altogether inap
'd plicable to the Americans. He observes those re- c
gulations were made refpeding neutral nations, J
•ot alliet; and that allies mull be governed in their f
intercomrfe by existing treaties. He fpecifies two ,
articles of the regulations of July %6, which are
expressly contradiflory to the treaty of 1778 — c
and therefore it never could have been intended e
1 that those orders should be extended to the United t
it, States. r
el- On the fnhje& of the Role of Equipage the *
r „ writer has given an explicit-opinion, which we
stall cite at some length.—After citing the 15th '
and 17th articles of the treaty, he fays " when v
an American Ihip meet* a privateer, she is to ex- t
n » hibit her certificate of lading and her paflport ac- £
' e i cording to the mode annexed to the treaty, and
ral the privateer,which,after such exhibition, Hops the r
nd vessel or fends her into port, and libels her, is a. '
of violator of the laws, a disturber ot public order ; 1
ar- for such injuries may lead nations into a disastrous (
to- war. The words of the 17th article are so clear, j
that it is impoflible to conceive with how little mo
irn, defty any thing more is demanded than the certifi- '
cate of lading and the passport. The paflport is '
the only paper essential—it proves the ship to be I
American—the captain to be an American—that j
(he is from an American port and bound to a neu- (
tral port —It is infpe&ed by the oflieers of the ma- ,
the rine, who attcft that oath has been made of the
'ke property.
nft But at the fame time that the captain is bound 1
edi to make oath to, in order to procure the deliver- {
ance of the paflport, ht is also Uwd to tnUr in the
ogicttLt hjl of tit crttv and hit pajengert, whom he
will not take on board without the knowledge and
[ a , permifiion of the officers of the marine.
The captain is not touni to frifmt tbe lifl a feconi
time, nor to carry it -with bim ; be ought to dcpofit itl tbe
Ibe bands of tbe effictrj of tbe marine, and it is after tbat dt
' of foftt of tbe role and tbe completion of the dul iet required of
10 him, iy tbe form, tbat the passport it delivered to bim.
Tbe passport in the hands of the »fficers proves
that the captain has complied with all the maritime
I- regulations of his country, in the fame manrer
that passports, with which travellers provide them
irn felvcs for leaving France, ateft that they have sub
mitted to all the forms required by the laws of the
icpulslic.
If thciole of equipage wereneeeffary, the 17th
article would have expressed it, but when it speaks
only of a Passport according to the form, which it re
quires only to be deposited with the officei s of the j
V marine in America, it is obvious that the Amen- j
cans arc within the rule, when provided with the .
passport."" ... . . '
o Such are the ideas of this judicious writer ; and
ins, if he is right, the usual form of the paflport is de
bit' fcftive. According to his idea the Role of equi
page (houldbe deposited at the cultcm house, and
Ihe passport il'.ould exprcfs that it is deposited
fcgW explanatiorn #».••*« tlve f.*m or the pslTport callet
UlJigible whereas without these urthmtiuni.s, Q f
iJ a rfcfc, iption of them "in the paflport, a great , .
irt of the form now ufe'i in the sea-Utter ha» ro
re or meaning; at all.—On these points however it »'» c 1
the'cuSn.fs of government to decide. Unit
■ -—; chan
From the Western Teleoraphe. faftu
It has ever been the objeft of every vir- are
nous legislator, to grant the .members of frorr
be social state an equitable exchange for land
hose natural rights, which, by implied upoi
ompaft, they relinqftifh upon their en- the
ranee into society. , ; j men
In the Roman republic there was no the <
quitable exchange the plebeian, though I
neritorious, was conditionally excluded fuel'
rom holding an office ; whild ths mod pro- port
ligate were tstifed to the raagiftracy by for- (hip
;une and antiquity of family. An accurate gatt
Roman historian informs us, that the mod cept
nfaraous candidate had a favourable chance as a
it 9n eleftion, if he could shew the antique deft
latues, and recount the difintereded aftions, lane
if his ancestors ; —infenfible, that the more cud
illustrious the aftions of his forefathers pay
were, the greater scandal redounded upon of
the fhamefal deportment of their degene- . upo
rate poderity. : in I
Thus the Senate was, at different peri- ' cou
odj, composed of the mod contemptible, ties
venal men : avarice and ambition abolished mer
faith, probity, with every virtuous princi- • defi
pie. Ambition forced them to be deceit- gou
ful, to conceal their real meaning ; to pro- dut
fefs what they meant not; to sftimate friend- 011 1
(hip and enmity, not according to their own \ any
intrinsic weight, but by that of intered, any
and rather to bear a fair countenance than dul
a virtuous heart. Avarice, a vice impreg- ne*
nated with mortal poison, had enervated j his
every member of that once refpeftable bo- 1 aft
dy, and influenced the mod didinguifhed tor
to prostitute their abilities. I in
So flagrant was their venality, that Ju- j du
giirtha, the mod abandoned ally of the po
Roman republic, when departing from the j th<
city, exclaimed, " A city abandoned to I me
venality, and ripe for perdition, whenever j of
an able purchaser would appear." j kii
But their exqefles were now at their 1 cei
height, and the insulted populace made vi- ex
gorous efforts to regain their freedom. Po- | liv
pular rage, by being long fniothered, burd I or
with tenfold fury upon their former oppref- qu
fors, enabling a law that the senate should co
be bound by oath to accede te every pro- m;
pofltion, which the people should fugged, po
however prejudicial to the eommon weal, j va
The balance of power not only preponde- I
rated now upon the fide of the commons, I pr
but the very foundation of the government I th
was removtd, and a dominatio plcbis, or lan
tyranny of the people, introduced, which I tii
was followed by the arbitrary usurpation m
of a single person. I g'
We enjoy a form of government raised fa
upon the drifted principles of reason and m
humanity : merit, in every republic raised so
upon similar principles, will generally be the I bt
mod patent road to preferment, as fortune in
cannot confer an office, nor hereditary tinsel U
to attraft the people. Let us beware of B
confidently every ordinance despotic, which I g<
is inconsistent with our peculiar sentiments ; I m
every law oppressive, which is incompatible I as
with our private intered. The word free-1 m
dom founds harmomious and pleafixig to I cc
the ear; but that we may enjoy not only Ip<
the found, but the salutary effefts of free- fh
dom, and these permanent, many redriftive in
regulations are necessary in the social date, w
which fanatics will deem oppressive. p;
MQDERATUS. qi
, I in
AN ACT 11
OF THE BRITISH PARLIAMENT,
For carrying intoexecution the Treaty of Amity, |
Commerce and Navigation, concluded
between his Maje/ly and the
United Statu of America. I
[4th July, 17J7-] j
W WERE AS a treaty of amity, com- h
merce and navigation, has been con- t
eluded between his majedy and the United b
States of America : And whereas, by the t
eleventh article of the said treaty, it is agreed t
between his majedy and the United States t
of America, that there mould be a recipro- t
cal and entirety perfeft liberty of naviga- t
tion and commerce between their refpeftive t
people, in the manner, under the limitations, e
and on the conditions fpecified in the sol- c
, lowing articles of the said .treaty : And i
i whereas, by the fifteenth article of the said
treaty, it is further agreed, that no other (
| or higher duties (hall pe paid by the (hips or t
merchandize of the one party, in the ports c
i of the other, than such as are paid by the r
; like vessels or merchandize of all other na- J
'• tious ; nor shall any other or higher duty be t
• imposed in one country, on the importation t
[ of any articles, the growth, produce or manu- <
, fafture, of any other foreign country , nor c
: shall any prohibition be imposed on the ex- t
' portation or importation of any articles, to t
" or from the territories of the two parties re- t
I fpeftively, which shall not equally extend (
to all other nations : Be it therefore enafted j
J by the king's mod excellent majedy, by I
- and with the advice and consent of the lords I j
'' fpiiitual and temporal, and commons, in j
j this prefenl parliament assembled, and by I
the authority of the fame, That it shall and I
1 i may be lawful to import linto this kingdom, I
" direftly from any of the territories of the
'* United States'of America, in British built
fhips or vessels, owned, navigated and re
; 3 giftered, according to law, or in ships built I
e in countries belonging to the United States
r of America, or any of them, or in ships taken
by any of the ships or vessels of war belong- I
'j ing to the governmeut or any of the inhabi
tants of the said United States, having com
h missions or letters of marque and reprisal
;s from the government of the said United
" j States, and condemned as lawful prize in
;! I any court of admiralty of the said United I
ie ! States, of which condemnation proof shall
f be given to the fatisfaftion of the commif
d fioners of his majesty's cudoms, or any
■* four or more of them, in that part of Great- |
'j Britain called England, and any three or
- more of them, in that part of Great-Britain j
called Scotland, and owned by the fubjefts' pub
of the said United States, or any of them, ! cies,
and whereof the mader and three-fourths of : the
the mariners at lead are fubjefts of the said post
United States, any goods, wares or mer- I sent
chandize, the growth, prod3ftion or manu- j the t
fafture, of the said United States, which j The
■ are not prohibited by law to be imported man
\ from foreign countries, and to enter and of t
• land such goods, wares and merchandize, full
1 upon payment of the duties, and fubjeft to in t
- the conditions and regulations herein-after and
mentioned ; any law, cudom, or usage, to ben
> the contrary notwithstanding. of
1 11. And be it further enaft,ed, That all r
1 such goods, wares and, merchandize, im- vidi
- ported into Great-Britain, either in such the
- ships, or in British built ships, owned, navi- and
e gated and regidered, according to law (ex- Th
I cept such goods, wares and merchandize, pro
e as are hereinafter particularly enumerated or tifi:
c described) shall and may be entered and ted
s, landed, upon payment of such duties of anc
e cudoms and excise, and no higher, as are wa
-s payable on goods, wares and merchandize, pes
n of the like denomination and description, mo
, upon their importation into this Kingdom, ty
!in British built (hips, from any other foreign Th
i- ' country; and in cases where different du- nue
ties are imposed upon goods, wares and by
d merchandize, of the like denomination or efft
i- description, imported from different foreign poi
t- countries, then upon payment of the lowed ted
■j- duties which by law are required to be paid nat
i- 011 the importation in British built ships, of ant
'n | any such goods, wares or merchandize, from pre
I, any foreign country, according to the fche- gn
to dule and tables, marked A, D, and F, an- be;
•r- nexed to an aft passed in the 27th year of thi
:d j his present majelty's reign, intituled, " An cu
o- i aft for repealing the several duties of cuf- mi
ed toms and excise, and granting other duties lie
I in lieu thereof, and for applying the said 'm<
u- j duties, together with the other duties cora
he posing the public revenue ; for permitting M
he the importation of certain good 3, wares and of
to merchandize, the produce or manufafture nr
er 1 of the European dominions of the French m
I king, into this kingdom ; and for applying al
eir I certain unclaimed monies, remaining in the gi
vi- I exchequer for the payment of annuities on 1
'o- j lives, to the reduftion of the national debtth
rd or by any other law in force, passed fubfe- le
ef- quent to the said aft, touching the duties ti
ild contained in the said schedule and tables, of
ro- marked A, D, and F, fubjeft also, when im- pi
•d, ported in American ships, to the counter- T
al. I vailing duties imposed by this aft. j oi
ie- I 111. And, in order to encourage and jdi
ns, I promote the trade from the United States to ; tl
:nt I this kingdom, be it further enafted, That ; T
or I any pig iron, bar iron, pitch, tar, turpen- ! b
eh I tine, rosin, pot afli, pearl ash, mahogany, 1 le
ion mads, yards, and bowsprits, being the
I growth, produftion, or tnanufafture of the te
fed said United States, and all daves, and un- al
ind manufaftured goods and merchandize what- a;
fed soever, which are not prohibited by Jaw to ci
the be imported from any foreign country, be- tl
inc ing the growth or produftion df the said h
ifel United States, shall or may be imported in t<
of I British or American ships, owned and navi- «
ich gated as herein-befare required, upon pay- j
ts ; I mentof such duties of cudoms and excise It
ble as are payable on the like goods, wares, and tl
■ee- merchandize, when accompanied with the r:
to certificates required by law upon their im- if
nly I portation into this kingdom, in British built d
•ee- I ships, from any British island or plantation t<
tive in America, notwithstanding such goods, h
ite, wares, or merchandize, may not be accom- u
panied with the certificates heretofore re- k
S. quired by law, fubjeft also, when imported i I
in American ships, to the countervailing du- f]
I ties imposed by this aft. v
IV. Provided always, and be it further <
■ I enafted, That upon the importation into e
" ! Great Britain, from the United States of o
I America, of wheat, wheat meal and flour,
rye, barley, beer, or bigg, oats,' oatmeal, t
pease, beans, indian corn, and maize, the | a
duties to be paid thereon refpeftively shall I t
om- 1 be regulated and afcertairied according to
:on- the prices of wheat, rye, barley, beer, or
ited bigg, pease, beans, oats, and oatmeal, in
the the manner set forth and fpecified in the
reed table marked D. in an aft, passed in the
ates thirty-fird year of his Majedy's reign, inti
pro- tied, An a3 for regulating the importation and
iff"- I exportation of corn, and th: payment of the du-
Srive ty on foreign corn imported, and on the bounty
ons, of British corn exported; any thing contain
fol- ed in this aft to the contrary notwithdand- <
And ing.
said V. And be it further enafted, That all
ther Oil made from fifh, 'or creatures living in
is or I the sea, and blubber, whale fins and fperma- 1
lorts ceti, being the produce of the fifheries car
the ried on by the people of the said United
' na- States of America, may be imported from '
ybe I the countries of the said United States into '
[tion I this kingdom, in British or American ships, 1
anu- owned and navigated it herein before re- '
nor quired, upon payment of such duties ofcuf
ex- toms as are payable on the like goods and 1
to I merchandize, upon their importation into 1
»re- this kingdom, in British built ships, from ]
tend countries not under the dominion of his ma
ifted I jedy, fubjeft also, when imported in Ame.ri- 1
■ by I can ftiips, to the countervailing duties im- I 1
lords I posed by this aft.
5, in I [7*o be continued.
iby I ' '■ 1
and BOSTON, Oftober 26.
I° m > I BY HIS EXCELLENCY
tbe \ INCREASE SUMNER, Essivixe,
built
| I GOVERNOR
. ~ I Of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
built
tates a PROCLAMATION,
a k en FOR A DAY OF
ong-1 PUBLIC THANKSGIVING,
liabi- I THE sacred charafter and benevolent
com- I Providence of God, being acknowledged by
jrifal our civil conditution, the public and grate
nited ful homage, usual at this season, is no less
:e in a diftate of patriotism than of piety. Un
nited I derthe influence of these united principles,
shall the Fathers of our country indituted, and
imif- I their ftlcceffors have observed, AN ANNU
any AL Day OF THANKSGIVING,- and
Teat PRAISE.
ee or I I'i imitation of so pious* and laudable an
ritaiu 1 example, I have thought fit to appoint a
public commemmoration of i!;-. prvnieMir- f
cies, particularly, of those ivliich crown
the closing year ; and for this sacred pur
pose, I do, by and with the advice and con
sent of the Council, appoint THURSDAT
the thirtieth day of November next, a Day of
Thanksgiving and Prctife throughout this Com
monwealth—calling uponminifters and people
of every denomination, religiously and joy
fully to observe the said day, by afTembling
in their refpeftive places of public worfhipj
and ofFerring their united praises to the great
benefactor of their country, and the author
of every blessing.
Through his adorable and munificent pro
vidence, the seasons have been favourable—
the labours of the husbandmen fuceefsful,
and the fruits of the earth abundant.—-
Through his indulgence, our fifheries have
profpertd—our commerce, although unjus
tifiably interrupted, has not been annihila
ted, but in many instances has succeeded ;
and the efforts of Industry have been re
warded. Under his protection, internal
peace and tranquility have blefled the Com
monwealth and the voice of health and plen
ty been generally heard in our dwellings.*—
Through his unmerited goodness we conti
nue to enjoy constitutions of Government,
by which our rights, civil and sacred are ef
efTeftuaUy secured, and by his favor the im
portant life of the President of the Uni
ted States has been continued—Whilit other
nations have been fufferi ng all the horrors
and diftrcffes of wnr, under his watchful
providence we have been preserved from so
grievous a calamity. And through the for
bearance of Goi we are (till favoured with
the cbriftian religion—a religion which in
culcates peace on earth and good will among
men—a religion highly propitious to repub
lican happiness, whilst it reveals a future and
frioft glorious state for the righteous.
Together with the celebration of Divine
Mercies, which ought to penetrate the hearts
[ of a prospered people, Ido recommend the
• most ingenuous corifeffion »f fins, and the
i most fervent supplications to the author of
; all our enjoyments, that we mr.y driplay our
; gratitude by a steady course of obedience ?
i That thro* his wife and gracious influence
' the negociatioH forpeace may be so over-ru
. led, as that the lasting tranquility of the na
i tions of Europe and of the United States
, of America, may be established, and op
- predion and disorder every where cease :
- ' That he would so direct the administration
I of our federal government, and that of the
I j different dates in the union, as to promote
> | the peace and true interest of our nation :
t ; That we, sensible of the blessings er.fured
- i by our civil fyltem, might be disposed to
, 1 lead quiet and peaceable lives in all Gosill
e nafs and honesty :—That God would pro
e test our trade and navigarion from unreajfon
. able obftrudtions—would give success to our
- agriculture, fifheries and manufactures, and
a continue his smiles to our university and o
•- ther seminaries of ufeful learning :—That
d he would afford his protection and blessing
n to these United States, and not fuffer any
I- weapon formed again ft them to prosper.
•- J Whilst with lively gratitude we acknow
e ledge the great degree of health enjoyed in
d this commonwealth, it is recommended to
e remember with sympathy fuchof our friends
in some of the United State?, as have been
t diftrefled by contagious mortal diseases ; and
n to supplicate the father of mercies, that
i, health and .prosperity may be speedily and
i- universally restored. Finally, that all man
kind under the sceptre of the Prince of
d i Peace, may be animated with the noble
i- 1 spirit of his religion : be enabled to pursue
with united affection;, their common inter
:r tft : Be Convinced of their mutual depend
o ence and of the absolute dependence of all,
>f on the universal parent,
r, I do further recommend to the eitizens of
1, this commonwealth to fnfpend such labours
ie | and recreations as may not be confident with
II the solemnity of the said day.
:o Given at the Council Chamber in Bof
:>r ton, this twenty-third day of OCto
n the year of our Lord, one
ie thousand, seven hundred and ninety*
ie seven ; and inthe twenty-second year
:i- of the Independence of the United
id States of America.
u- INCREASE SUMNER.
ty Attteft,
n- John Avery, Secretary,
d- God five the Commonwealth of MaJJachuftts.
ill LYNCHBURG, (Vir.) October 23.
in Messrs. John DaVis & Co.
a- You will please to give the following a place
ir- in your Weekly Museum.
Ed On the 2d, 3d, 4th, and sth of this
,m month, the commissioned officers of the
to tenth and ninety-firft regiments of the mili
>s, tia, paraded at the town of Liberty, for
■e- the purpofc of being trained by major Joel
if. Leftwich, brigade inspeCtor : during which
nd time, the greatest friendfhip and unanimity
to of sentiment, joined with a spirit of martial
,m pride and emulation, prevailed among them.
ia- On each day the different evolutions were
ri- performed with remarkable alertness and
xi- dexterity. On the fourth, in view of a
number of ladies and gentlemen, who at
tended as speCtators, th«y fired several
J- rounds with a degree of regularity and ex
aCtness that would have done credit to the
oldest veterans. After meeting with the
:£, highest approbation of the brigade inspec
tor, and applause of the speCtators, they
were difmifTed.
The ladies, and a number of the officers,
then repaired to the house of capt. Isaac
Otey, and partook of an elegant repast pri -
vided by his lady. Dinner being over, and
:nt the glaffcs set, the following toasts were
by drank with acclamations of unanimous ap
tc- probation by all present.
c '' 3 I. The gloriousani/immortal WASHING
fn- TON, late Commander in chief and President
es j of the United States of America : May he long
11 '' live to enjoy the fruits of his labor, arid end his
U- days in peach, and may his worthy fuccejfor
ND JOHN ADA ATS - , President, imitah hit Vir
tues, and follow his Example in-the ads of his
an admin':/I ration.
t a 2. Gen. JOHN MARSHALL, and ourothcr Etivoyi t» th; R'.j>ubl'.o of France :M ty quaint
thzir Negotiations he productive of tranquility and in
between the tiv? Republics and the honor of Pincki
the United States of America. t ' l " g°
2. The American Government ; May it be fipn th
tuell adminjlered by her Rulers and firmly/up- diatel)
ported'by her Citizens. I ? 0
4. May a party Spirit be banished from the 20 mei
empire of merica, by unanimity of sentiment in and w
the Citizens thereof. e( l l l ,e
5. May the young and ri/ing Empire of A- there j
merica, be so conduced, that it become great tion, t
among the Nations of the earth, and be the limits
Afy'um of pence and plenty to the latejl period. The
6. May the enemies of America» never be )efier<
supported by the produtiiens thereof. cufton
7. May Good Men become great, and all veyed
great Men good. ceptio
8. May all ranks and conditions of men be being
obedient to orders m their refpectivejlations. receivi
9. May an universal and speedy peace tale til afti
place, of the calamities of u>ar, and the Jheddmg get lit
of human blood, throughout the habitable 1 h
world. t: ° n 0
10. The fifth if 0 Sober 1797 May the faenfi
spirit that animated the breajis of the officers .of
the TENTH and xrsett FIRST, regiments of raDe.e
the 12 th brigade of the Mili'ia of Virginia, on Ah
this occafwn prevail throughout the United tain T
States of America. ? e " j
The company then feparatcd, each member board
returning to his abode -with a heart elated-with Arac:
i),e accordance of sentiment that prevailed her rr
t-hrough the whole company. know
Bedford, (th 03. 1797* "'£> 1
lifh ci
—~ I , 7~i i iy ma
By this day's Mail. ai
comii
NEW-YORK, 'November 2. mg '<
We hear by some persons from Havre de j from
'Grace, that the Juliana of Baltimore is to the r
have a fourth trial. Her cargo has bsen and t
landed, but not fuffered to be fold. wtnt
___________ I aniltc
PROVIDENCE, (R- I-) OQ. 28. ■ I all in
A gentleman from South Kingllown lo- .lwate
forms, that the Hon.WiiH.AM Bradford, cable
Esq. one of the Senators for this (late in b.iari
Congress, yesterday sent in hisrefignation to olenc
the Legislature convened a: that place. leen
-0 I time
CHARL ESTON > o<a ° ber . lsV " 1 , oar
Capt. Bythewhood was at Cadiz on the the ]
Auo-uft, at which time admiral Nelson and
had returned with his squadron from an un- ing_
fuccefsful expedition against Jenenffe, and
had rejoined admiral Jervis's fleet Admiral the 1
Jervis continued the blockade of Cadiz, and of ai
had declared that he (hould do so T
anchors would hold him : the Spanilh fleet Tah
dared not to come out, but relied upon the peo,
I British fleet being driven from the bay by cer
the equinoxial gales. There had been no the
' cannonading since the Bth of July. . U-
At Teneriffe capt. B. learnt that admiral fro
Nelson had loft an eye, as well as his arm on
and that capt. Bowen had been k.lled. The fe«
loss of the British was said to have been hop
between 5 and 600 Killed and taken ; th«= ten
prisoners were immediately released. The peo
attack was said to have been a mad, impru- met
dent aft ; the troops were landed, on a fine bee
moon-light night, in face of 50 p.ec«, of
cannon, and without a (h,p to cover them. De
r The Americans are taken by French and
Spanith privateers indiscriminately, and are I
invariably condemned. I /
FRENCH FRATERNITY,
With Additions V Amendments.
The English (liip Aracabefla, capt. Sto- I p r ,
rev, bound from Jamaica to London, which p 0
put into this port in distress, having earned thl
away her mizen and mainmasts, and being of
so leaky as to require one pump to be con
stantly going, was yesterday burnt in Five an
Fathom" Hole, by a French pirate. co
From such fraternal flame?, good Lord
d °The Aracabeffa, after having encounter
ed the distresses of storms at sea, was with ve
the assistance of lighters gotten to anchor th
in Five Fathom Hole on Saturday last, r0
where (he lay waiting for a favourable wind gl
to eet up to town, to discharge her cargo
and K et repaired. On Monday, about one m
o'clock, P M. Mr. John CaHioun went
down to the (hip with prov.fions and other E
necefljiries, and dined on board with cap . I
Storev. While at dihner, one of the crew I
came below and def.red the capt. to go upon r.
deck, and look at a small which I
was (landing towards them, and had much
the appearance of a French privateer. AH f
hands accordingly went upon deck, an u
their suspicions beitffc incrcafed, capt. b. „
ordered a fix pounder and three muskets, I
which were all the gun, on board, to be I
prepared for their defence, resolutely deter
niined not to Tuffer his vessel to be boarded t
and taken from him, if it could t>e prevent- l
,-d Cant S. at the fame time requested Mr. ,
Calhoun to take his boat and reconnoitre ,
and let him have any information refperiing
her he could obtain. _ I
Mr. Calhoun left the (hip in his.whale
boat, with two negroes and passed by
schooner, which had come to anchor about
.£7miles from the (hip. When paffingjhe
was hailed by her to know whether he was
a pilot, to this he replied no, afced^where
she was from, and was answered >nbrok e n
Enffliffi, from Savannah. He told them
She was coming opto the city. and if
they wanted a pilot be would fend thcm
one but upon his (landing towards the
{hip' they a(l<ed what ttlip that was, and or
to come on board the schooner.
These orders he disregarded, and notwith
standing three,mufkets were fired at
to (hoal water to cu desired tbfm
he
t0 Z o town, the schooner having an
chored a second time within a mile of t e
flli ?; ft antly on the arrival of Mr. Calhoun in
• , "Si was about 9 o'clock on Mon
\ '-ll hit information was lodged with
she Britifli consul, who sensible of tH
gtrous .situation of the (hip, immedwtelj .c-
quainted the colle&er with the circumstance, ing ar
and in company with hiji, waited 0:1 Gov. to gi
Pinckney. The representation being made, the m
the governor, with a promptitude and deci- befori
fion that do him the highest honour, imme- Ca
diately issued his orders to the commander the b
of Fort Johnfton, to detach an officer and when
20 men from his corps, on board the cutter, fide o
and with the colle&or's concurrence, dire£l- him I
ed the officer to proceed to the Hole, and he ran
there protett from insult, injury or depreda- when
tion, the (hip ; she being within the men I
limits of the United States, and of this state. board
These orders were given at one'o'clock him t
yesterday morning, to the captain of the
custom-house boat, to be immediately con- Tli
veyed to Fort Johnfton ; but from a mifcon- ton, v
ception of the urgency and necessity of their paffen
being immediately delivered they were not had a
received by the commander of the Fort un- Le
til after 7 o'clock, and the cutter did not (lerda
get under way until after 10. that >
These delays and the consequent inexecu- ny an
tion of the orders given, have occasioned the delini
Sacrifice of this valuable (hip, and fubjefted Tt
the United Srates to a degradatiou unpa- that j
rallied. "«n
About 9 o'clock yesterday morning, cap- pinioi
tain Bythewood, in the brig Hannah, from dize
Teneriffe, having Mr. Delano the pilot on was v
board, came over the bar, and observed the T1
Aracabeffa to be on fire from her stern to and a
her main hatch ; they to the bell; of their to fai
knowledge, at firft observed no signal fly
ing, but after a few minutes saw the Eng
lish colors flying at the foretopmaft, the on
ly malt (he had. O r ll
About two o'clock, Mr. Huffey the pilot H
coming in observing that the (hip had drift- go
ing about two miles in aS. W. dire&ion, fui
1 from the place that he saw her at anchor in 1
I the morning, that her lail malt was gone,
and that (he was ashore on the Folly breakers
wtnt to fee whether he could give her any
assistance; getting near her he observed her
all in flames, her larboard fide burnt to the
.1 water's edge, her decks burnt and fallen in
cable burnt close off and no living person on
board, and. the flames proceediug with a vi-
I olence that w,ould soon leave nothing to be
s een —The ffca was running so high at the
time, as to render it impossible to get on *
board. Mr. H. on Monday evening saw
the pilot boat schooner run into the Hole,
and (he was seen under way yesterday morn- y
I ing near the (hip (landing out to sea.
We fear much, from the description of
the boat that (he has not been very long out
of an American port. _ . C ror
; The molt distressing circumstance in this
Tale is the uncertain fate of the captain and
: I people who were on board of the (hip; no
I certain tiding of them, were had yesterday;
i I the reports were various, some negroeS who "
were fithing, said that a boat was seen going
1 I from the (hip in the morning after she was
, I on fire, to the light house Island and that
I several people were seen on the beach. We r
1 I hope that this may be so; but from the de-
e I termined refiflance of capt. Storey and his
e I people, it is to be feared, that they have
- I met withaworfe fate; perhaps they have
e been butchered. an(
if I Capt Bythewood, Mr. Colhoun and Mr.
i t I Delano have made affidavits of what came
d I within their knowledge. p,
■t 1 Our allies can proceed only one degree
I farther to reach the climax of their overbear-
I ing in'olence. Let themcomenext uptoour
I very wharves, and cut away and burn A-
I merican vessels —the sooner the better cut
out our revenue cutter, the guardian and
I proteftrefs of our trade; take her away to
:h Point Petre or St. Anguftine, and fee if
:d there be a poflibility of their beating a spirit J
'g of resentment, and a sense of (liame into our
n " Federal Legislature, who laugh at frigates
ve and cutters, at a time when pilot boats can J
I come into our harbours and burn ships, re
rd gardlefs of our power or will to puuifh the
hostility. 1
:r - We learn, that the collr£or has made a
ith I ver y handsome representation of the fails to ec
lor the Head of the Treasury Department, and E 1
lft ' requeftedthat acoraplete cutter mounting 20
nd guns may be expeditioufly provided, as it is 1
g° impossible to judge how soon our wharves
me may be attacked. _
" nt It seems that a roll of fire, is a neceflary
EQUIPAGE for vessels in our ports,
pt. I ~ oct. 19. '
ew Died, at Libbey'. Point, Christ Church pa- t.
ion I rifh, on Monday the HSth inftint, RoyAl v
; r h Flint, Esq. a native of the Sute of tonnec- e
iMtieut. In the late revolution, Congreft appoint
a C ed him depusy CommifTary General of purcha- {
r S to the army, and at the close of the war he
vld I was again chosen bv Congress Commissioner
S. of accounts between the United Statu and the t
ets, (tates »f Massachusetts, Conne<aicut and Khode (
be Island S in both these office* he executed the 1
» I tral reposed in him « itli that abdity and inte- ,
, C ; rrity « fully proved the jnlKce ot the choice (
ded lie was a man polTelTed of a truly benevolent ,
m } m and philanthropic heart, and of a. enlighten-
Mr. Ed underllandidg ; and wdl be leng andjuftlj
itre, I lamented by those who knew lus worth.
ting I Odtober 20.
The privateer which destroyed the (hip
h-j, Arracabeffa, is called the Fortitude, com-
Z manded by one Jpnrda.n ; (he is fr»m Mon
' te Chtifto. On Wednesday morning aft,
'he at 11 o'clock, (he captured the (hip Pallas,
V as Hunter, from Glasgow, belonging to this
W port; and at 12 o'clock at night, the brig
, ken Maria, Lybert from London, bound to Sa
vannah : which vessels (lie sent for Cape
:f Francois. ' .
u ' Capt. Hunter and two men were detam
the ed on board the Pallas ; Mr Stuart and
dor ! Mr. Harvey, passengers, and the remam
„npr der of the crew weie put on board the Ham-
burgh (hip Betty, which arrived yesterday
a .,A from Botirdeaux.
'j • The crew of the (hip Maria was put on
n Z board the (hip Flora, Allen, wiiich arrived
them f rom Turks Island. •
The Pallas, at the time of her being cap
* Z tared, was in 10 fathoms water, 9 league.
f Z to the eallward of the Light-House-
Mr. Turner, the pilot, whom the pr.va
,n teer took out of the (hip Arracabeffit, was
M n also put on board the ftup Betty. He was
1 X informed, while on board the privateer, that
A the had captured, bofore (he came to oar
h Bar, an Engliffi Ihip ftom Jamaica, belong-
ing and bound to Liverpool ; Hie moanjed Til
-10 guns, and was coppered'. C.ipt. Bt this pi
the master of the; F.ugliJh Hbip, was k.lkd not frc
before file was taken. ou,: an
Capt. Allf-n, who brought in the crew of who o
the brig Maria, had got within the bar, own p
when the privateer Fortitude came nlorijr but ion
fide of him ; the captain then, compelled of the
him to return to sea, in doing which, he such c
he ran a confiderable.rifle o! loinghis veiTt-l ;
when he had got without the bar again, fix Cai
men belonging to the Maria were put 011 Port c
board of hfm ; the privateer then permitted nneric:
him to return into port. I'ranc
_ der hi
The snip Adventure, 1' days from Bos- taken
ton, with a number of ladies and gentlemen, a Brit
passengers, was off the bar yesterday, and chafec
had a pilot on Ipoard. •' them
Letters of t(ie 16th of Aifguft, from Am- Ge
fterdam, received in the Texel, mention to (lar
that Peace between the Emperor of Gerrna- in his
ny and France was concluded, and that the his fla
definitive treaty had been published there, comm
Tt was generally thought in Amftrdam, Ca]
that peace between France and England was tinue
near at hand. What gave reaifon for this o-1 bount!
pinion was, that every article of merchan- captu
dize had fallen in price, except coffee> Rice class t
was worth 16s. only. '
The ship Harmony, Earle, of this port there,
and a ship belonging to Philadelphia, were Th
to fail in a a few days after the Amsterdam. had b
capta
FRENCH FRATERNITY,
CONTINUED.
Or the capture of the ship Pallas, Captain Fo
Hunter, of and for this port, from Glaf- ■ dirty,
gow, and the brig Mary, Liburn, or and N. E
for Savannah, from London, by a whicl
French Piratical imrebrand. since
Hubbaboo it makes our poor hearts ache.
' _ I came
Whate»erconftru<Slionmayhederivcd from . (j rea( ;
the words, Liberie, EqimTile, and Frafernite,
they would never draw an observation from j vc fly
us, had they not extendedto the fraterni/.a- j an( ] ,
tion of ourveffelnon the high- fta6, and in 1 an( j ,
otir port 3 and harbours. j font!
In facl, a literal trailflation of these words y <s
will defihe them to be hugging, squeezing, whai
robbing, plundering and murdering all na- j n g (
tions, who may be either a t[ot
from inclination or compulsion, their allies
or their fubjefts. in tl
, Yesterday arrived two passengers, the j n g ,
mate and four of the crew of the ship Pal
las, capt. Hunter, from Glasgow, of and for np (
this port, put on board of the ship Betsey carr j
from Bourdeaux off the bar ; likewift the p o ]j
mate and five of the crew of the brig Mary, Rol
capt. Lightburn, of »nd for Savannah from
London, put on board of the ship Flora, Qn ]
' capt. Allen from Turk's island, off the bar, hef
by that fame INFERNAL PIRATE,
: who on Monday last came into our port and hou
' burnt the English (hip Arracabeffa, in vio- dov
; lation of the neutrality of the United States ra f t
: —Turner the pilot who was carried off by Qr
" them from the English ship was likewise put a n
' on board 1 the Betty. ftea
1 The depositions of capt. Allen, of the jjj c<
E (hip Flora, of Rhode-IQand, of the mates
and crews of the Pallas and Mary, and Tur- a j JC
ner have been Jmade before John Mitchell,
C Esq. Justice of the Quorum and Notary crc
P.iblic. mo
Turner the pilot states, that after he was
r " taken out of the Aracabeffa and the (hip mu
L r _ burnt, (on the 27th inft.) by tl»{pirates, ed
r they went into Stono Inlet where they land
j ed capt. Storey and his people. They re
' mained at Stono that night and came out on
•r Wednesday morning. At eleven o'clock,
.'• t a. m. being abolit' nine leagues from. the
land in 10 water, and the Light-
Jr House bearing N. by W. they bore down ,
upon the (hip Pallas, made capt. Hunter _
hoist out his boat, andgo 011 board the pri
l vateer, where they kept him, and lent ten e( j
men on board to take pofleflion of the Pal-
, las, as their prize ; afterwards they return- g(
t ed H. to his ship, took out his paffen
j gers, mate and all his crew, but two men o j
2Q and a boy, whom they left on board, and
. 1S ordered her for Cape Francois. y .
I , Turner fays that they called the privateer b
ei> the Fortitude, the captain Jourdan, said Ihe
rv was 8 days out from Francois, with 65
' 7 men, and had what Jourdan ftiewed and cal- |t
led a commission from Monte Chrifti. They
? a- told him they had before taken two English
Ai. vessels from Liverpool, one of which mount- a
tc- ed 10 guns, and had sent them to the Cape.
Bt " They had 7or 8 negroes on board, one of
h , 3 " them he had known before in this city ;he h
'll also saw and knew a man who aded on board t
tl,e the privateer as a coasting pilot, is a native t
ode of Norway, but a citizen of Georgia, and t
the lately failed in a coasting vessel out of Sa- f
ate- vann 'ah. Turner is positive that the boat is t
ice on-- which was used as a fifhing smack in this r
lent port, and fold some time since to some
Frenchmen, who carried her to Savannah ;
she fails remarkably fa ft. j
The mate and people of the brig Mary x ,
ship captain Lightburn, 100 days from London .
om- for Savannah, fay that they were boarded ,
lon- I at 8 o'clock on Wednesday night, in 8 iith-1 ,
last, oms water, about three leagues from the
lias, land, and the light house bearing N. N. W. j
this That thev were treated in a similar manner
brig to the Pallas ; all of them were taken out
1 Sa- of the Mary, but the captain, one man and
'ape- a boy, and a prize master and nine men put
on board of her to carry her to the Cape,
tain- They were yesterday put on bqard of the ship
and Flora, captmn Allen, of Rhttfe-Ifland, from
nain- Turks Island, for this port. The pirate
lam- chafed captain Allen within the bar, brought
•rday him to, and compelled him to carry his ves
sel out again at the risk of losing her ; find
it on ing that he had nothing but fait on board, |
rived they put the brig Mary's men on board of
him and let him off, telling him that they
• cap- could not spare men to man the Florp, or
rgues they would make her a prize, but they were
cruising for a Portuguese ship bound to
priva- Charleston, and which was now expefied.
, was They told Turner that they only wanted
;e was one more good prize, and they would then
-, that return to the Cape for a frefh supply of men.
to our They have not now above 20 men, and m
eleng- ths;„Qumbcr are included 7 or : S negroes.
. Tilt fnfpicions are great and (troop, that : Sloop
this privateer' has a forged commiiSan, is J
not from Cape Francois, but has been fitted
out and supplied with the infamous villains <
who cdtn+jofe her crew, from fame of our
own ports. When will the da-/ of retri
bution arrive, or when will the government Ca
of the United Status be prepared to punish which
such daring insolence ? tnoch
Oftober 21. luind.
Captain Carnea, of the fhip'Sifters, from pajftg
Port de Pais, informs that Barney, the A- brut hi
merican Frenchman, had arrived at Cspe was I
Francois with the two French frigates 911- 60. 1
der his command ; that no engagement had the h
taken place between the French vessels and order
a Britiill ship of the line; Barney had been notiv,
chafed by three English (hip?, but escaped Mar.
them and got into the Cape. propc
General Touiffaint had fumtnoned Barney ed he
to (land trial, as a co-partner of Santhonax. and J
in his dilapidations of the public funds, and —cx l
his flag as commodore had been given to the
commander of the Infurgente frigate. T>
Captain C. informs, that the Britilh con- Frojl
tinue to iudorfe the registers of Americans neiv
bound to French ports, and that the French At
capture and condemn every vessel in that capt.
class they meet with. There were, when tois.-
he left Port de Paix, 47 American vessels given
there, and at the Cape, condemned. it L
The ship Penelope, Flagg, of this port, none,
had been condemned, and bought in by the Sanh
captain for 3000 dollars.
TREMENDOUS STORM. 23 "
For several days the weather had been Capt
' dirty, with strong gales of wind from the
N. E. which gave reason to expe£t a storm, B
which came on, and has not been surpassed Sinai
since that'experienced in October, 1783. Tori
About 3 o'clocklyeflerday morriog the wind D'at
! came in from the S. S. E. raised to such a r'tfon
j dreadful degree of violence, accompanied I Job;
j with rain, as to tear away a vast number of I fch.
vessels from their moorings at the wharves, j Simt
; and did great damage among the (hipping inoi
| and on shore. The mifchief began at the I S,
t south-erst end of the city, parting the ca- j pany
bles and fafts of the (hipping at Roper's /on,
wharf, which, in their drift with the flow- I Phi
ing tide, got foul of a vast number of vessels Smi,
atjotherwharves,carryingaway thebowfprits, j Pit<
heads, quarter galleries, rigging, and staving I GOl
in the fides, sterns, &c of many. A coafl- quii
ing schooner is said to have been upset arid I bar
funk, and several vessels were driven ashore I
np Cooper's River, and ,some small vessels 1 to 1
carried entirely over the marsh of Schote's I Ric
Folly. The ship Winyaw, which lay at den
1 Roper's wharf, broke from her moorings, I 1
1 ran the gauntlet along the range of wharves I Le
' on East Bay, damaging a great number in _ <
' her traft and at last ran ashore near Hobeaw. wit
The frame of a newly raised three story G<
1 house of Mr. James George's was blown gui
" down and crushed to pieces ; part of the I •
s rafters of col. Vanderhorfe't new range of Bu
stores on his wharf was likewise blown down; I
I a new house of Mr. Vardell'i near Hamp- fro
stead, which was partly covered in, was I cd
e likewise destroyed.
:s The violence of the storm continued for
r " about two hours, the wind changing at the I
latter part of it to S. S. W. and with in- 1
y creased violence. Ihe tide was uncom- j
monly high and covtred all the wharves. IBr
lt One seaman belonging to the snow Ro- j
P mulus, laying at Geyer's wharf, was wash- Sc
s> ed off the wharf and drowned, and is the J
only life loft that we have heard of. ce
E %f)t (smm. I
lie O
>t- PHILADELPHIA, p.
Tn SATURDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 4-
:er _ '■■'— t—-
™" An apprehenlion appears to be entertain- j 7
en ed that the ensuing feflion of Congress may j
al " l>e held at some other place than the feat of
rn * government. It is not poill >i' that thi j _
idea eaji be well founded. Foiay nothing ;
ltn of the great expenee and inconrenienee to I
indl the public which would result from a remo
val—it may fafely he asserted that no poffi- jj
eer ble cause exists to juft'fy the measure.
(he The city.of Philadelphia enjoys at this
moment as great a degree of health as ever j e
:a '" it did since its exiflence :It is totally free I
\ £ y from infeaious difeafee, and enjoys as pure
an air and is in every refpeft as healthy as .
l,l t- any populous town on the continent,
ipe.
- of One day this week, John Curtis, book
he binder, oflt of spite to his wife, retired in- .
' ar<l to the yard back of his house, and drank off '
t!ve two phials of laudanum, which very (hortly 1
and terminated his existence. It seems he had
Sa " frequent differences with his wife, and that
II "> this is not the firft attempt to so Angular a
t ' l ' s revenge.
ome __
served an impertinent fellow flopping in the
ai T>. middle cf the ro?d, and furveyingthe animal
ldon as he came up, with a very scrutinizing eye.
rded „ pj ow <j 0 y OU like him, said the gentle-
1 man " A d'm'd deal better than Ido
the ! you," replied the other. " Then" rejoined
■ W - i the gentleman, " I shall take care to lock
inner m ,, j\able door to-night."
1 out
1 and Died—Sarah Pennington, widowof Ed
-1 P ut ward Pennington, deccafed.
-ape. ____ Hannah Rhodes, daughter of Sa
c flu P muel Rhodes, Esquire, deceased.
from '
pirate GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
>ught
is vef- PORT OF PHILADELPHIA,
find- . 1 •
>oard, XT . D " YS
ard of Swedish ship Leverigengfdag, Nanmngs,
; they Li'bon 75
ra, or Brig Nancy, Geddes, Port au Prince,
via Wilmington
7 wcrc _ z „
id to Schr. Andrew, Caffin, Jacqucmel 27
ted. Angelica, Logan, C. N. Mole 22
•anted Lion, Roiiinfon, N. Carolina 7
1 then Sally, Robinson, do.
c c q ii v Grav Bo ft on 10
fmen. oali}, Kxrzy,
, n d in Landlay, Foster, Halifax, via Wil
■oes. mington
Sloop Mary,- Perry*. Havannah 20
Mill River, Schockley,
N. Providence 3 o
Comet, Atiftirt, . Virginia 8
Sally, Combes, N. Carolina 8
' NKir-LONDON, 03 31.
Capt. Thomas Sterling, of the sloop ■ jfulh,
which arrived here on Tueflay lajl, was
knocked overboard by the boom in a gale of
wind, and drowned, on his outward hound
passage, . 28 days after leaving port. —Th)
brother of Gapi. Sterling returned majler. He
was taken l>y a Frenchprrnateer in 1at.50 long
60. who after taking out all his people, except
the boy, and putting 8 of their people on hoard
ordered her, into Guadeloupe : Qapt. Sterling
notwithstanding, found means to carry her inta
Martinico, where Jhe was libelled as French
property, and claimed ly Sterling, who recover',
ed her. Left there, sloop Negotiator, Mallfoh,
andfehooner George, Bliss, both from this port
—expccled to fail in a few days.
Nottroi.K. Off. 30.
This morning arrived the brig 'Lucy (dpt.
FroJl,from Port au-Prince; —brings nothing
new-
Arrived also this morning, the brig Hannahs
capt. Ceo. Niynes, 18 days from Cape Fran
cois.—Capt. Hxynes contradiSs the account
given by capt. Carnes, of the brig Siflers arrived
at Charlejlon,lhat " Gen. Touiffaint hadfum
moned B.WNzr tojland trial, as a partner of
Santhonax, life. &c." ' '
Baltimore, November 2.
Arrived yeflerday —brig George, Bart let,
2 3 days from Aux Cayes.
Capt. Bartlet left the following veffds ct
Aux Caves.
Brigs Befy, Towrfhd, of Salem ; Peggy?
Small, of B-f on , Julius Czjar, Pope, of N.
Turk ; Fair American, Burt, of Philadelphia;
Diana. ,of b T . York ; Lavinia, Mor
rifm, Philadelphia:fnow Eleader Coats,
I Johns, Newltt-v pnnf ; aflip from N. Tork; ■
\ fch. Polly, Bcjlcn ; Carmelite,
J Simth, of Baltimore, 4 schooners, names un-
I known.
St.ileJfrom Aux Cayet, Odobor 6, in com-
J pany with the fihr. Diligence, captain Bufflng
ton, of Sahm ; sloop %Sally, captain Witts, of
Philadelphia ; sloop Sea Flower, captain
Smith, of Newhaven.
I Pitcher failed, and capt. Grant had gone to
I Gonaives to take his paflage home—all was
I quiet at the Cape. Flour, 10 dollars per.
I barrel.
The American ship Kitty, ftotft India,
II to Philapelphia, has been carried in Porto
I Rico, by a French privateer, and there con
; 1 demned.
Brig Swift, Daniels, 22 days Arquin—
-11 Left no American vefiels.
, I Sailed from the Well Indies in company
. I with a small' fleet under convoy of the
r| George, Capt. Bartlet, of 16 wooden
1 I guns.
. I Arrived fchr. Miraculous Pitcher, capt.
f I Butler, in 16 days from Cape Francois. ■
■ I The fchr. Lucretia, capt. Grant, of and
! I from this port to Petit Trou, was condem
sl c d with her cargo before the Miraculous
I Charleston, OA. 19.
r I ARRIVED. DAYS
, I Ship Betsey, Degen, Bourtfeaux 5®
I Flora, Allen, Turl»-Ifland 9
I Cornelia, Gilbert, Baltimore 19
I Pacific, Kennedy, Falmouth 53
Brig Amsterdam, Scott, • Amsterdam 60
)• I Hannah. Bythewodd, Teneriffe 40
!-| Sell. Betsey M'llheny, Wilm'nptcn.(N.C.) 3
le I Atlantic, Davis, Newburyport i$
I No news by the Pacific so late as before re
» I reived vm New-York and Bafton*
. I '»
Sales of Teneriffe JVine.
On WEDNESDAY next, the %th injlant,
I Prccifcly at I- o'clock, will be Sold, on Smith's
I wharf, above Race-street,
I For approved endorsed Notes at 60 days,
I 7c pipes London particular Tene
" riffe WINE.
of I FOOTMAN y Co. Auaioneers.
I novrmber 4.
ng Young Ladies' Academy
to O* PHILADELPHIA.
10- THE Public are refpedlfully Informed, that
jfj. the (aid Academy will be open on Monday, the
(ixthofJJov. in 1. t< r the K-ception of pupils.-
fOHN POOR, Princ'p....
us N. B. A school for bojrs will be opened on the
r er evening of said day.
ree
ire —; FOR SALE,
as »r TH6 guBscRiBEKS, No. at, Penn»ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
nk- „ Cvrjtjling °f .
in- Baftas, of various qualities & prices
off Coffaes I'unjum Cloths
rtl „ Sanahs Guzz.y do.
[ I Hnmhums Clarcoona Dor«a
1)3(1 Blue Cloth Tanj.bs
Chintz and Calic®e» MulmuU
r a Mamoodys _
, Maharagonge» Patna Hhkti.
Ginghams Mulraul do.
. Guzzena. Bandannoe*
ob " Gurrahs Siflerfoy
the pimafcoes Choppa Romalj
mal Salgatehys Sooty do.
eye . Gillie Romah Perfian.of vanoMcolo*r»
, s i ' Mock Palicats
aoo tons SUGAR
do. 90,000 lb. PEPPER;
ined Willing* & Francis.
lock 0. J n t j, e coar se of a few days, the PIECE
GOODS, composing the cargo of tlWhip Qanges,
will be exposed for laic at that large commodious
TTJ Store, the northwest corner of Market and Fourth
flreets. where a bale of every species of Goods will
r c be open. . <1 ,
Sa " LAN D I N G,
From on board the fliip .Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
e ct- commsm'tr, fram l^Diidon,
60 tons of the best clean Russia
. HEMP
60 cafksof bottled BK.OWN STOUT.
For sale by the fubferibers, No: 21, Pean-ftreet.
D * YS ' iViilings & Francis.
n75 Ocl. 31. —,
]aft arrived,
Front Port-au-Prince, and for Sale by the futferi
el 27 hers, No. a;, Penn-ftreet^
le 22 ft,% hoglheadt,"^
»a 7 tierces (Prime Coffee
j jl3 barrels (
ril ' c 646 b " ?5 Killings & Francis.
oa.
I 'To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before difpofei of at private sale)
Friday, the firft of December next, at fix
V j o'clock in ilv- evening, at the Merchants' Cof
fee House, in Philadelphia. Forty Thousand Nine
Hundred and Thirty Nine acres of LAND,
now or lat£ in ibe County of Washington, and Com
monwealth of Pennsylvania, and on the waters o{
F r esh arid Wheeling Creeks and Ten Mile Run,—
Thefr Lands arc fertile and well timbered, and were
pj enteed early in 1737, except 3700 acres or therea
bouts, which were patented in 179®* P ne fourth
of the purchase money to be paid at the time of sale,
f of the residue a credit of one, two and
will he jriven, on interest and good security.
Off oh'cr 6. y qawtS
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private sale)
ON Friday, the firlt day of December, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
House, in Philadelphia, Twenty Six Thousand Se
van Hu dred and Eighty acres of LAND, in the
State of New-York, between the northern bounds
of Pennsylvania and the Su'quehanna, now, or late,
in the townships of Hamden and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery. One lo»»rth of the p -rchafe
money is ro be paid at the time of sale ; for the re- I
iidue a credit of one, two, and three months will be
given, on interell and good security.
OaoOe 6. 3* wtS
Peace's Museum.
THIS valuable repository of the works of Na
ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the understanding, is opened daily, as
ul'ual. It (lands in an airy and healthy fituatipn,
and free from the epidemic that at present afflids
the city ; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the gre-iteft fjfety.
As an Aisufcment, the study of Nature is the
most rational and plealmg ' as a Science, the most
fublimc and indruilivc. It elevates the mind and
expands the heart. They
" Whom Nature's worh can charm,-with God bimftf
41 Hold convcrfe
Many interring additions have lately been
made to this Museum : and the feathered tribe,
containing a variety of the most rare and beautiful ;
fubjeiSs, is now very advantageously arranged.
Waxen Figures, of Men large as life (fpme of them
I calls from nature) , are here drcflird in their proper
- habit~,-and placed : .n attitudes charafleridlic of their
iel'pe&ive nations. Here may be feea the North-
American Savage, and th« Savage of South-Ameri- \
ca—a laboring Chinese, and the Chinese Gentle- j
man—the sooty African, and the Kamtfchadale — j
with some Natives of the South Sea I Hands. The
iinmenfe variety and intcrefting diversity which
this Museum olTersto the view, may be fecn but
a.'.nnot be described with full effuiS.
.JjT Price only I-4th of a dollar.
Stvt. 28 Taw
■ M OTIC E.
ALL persons indebted to the eflate of John
Striker, late of Tinnecum Township,
Buck's County, are rcquefted to pay off their
refpedlive debt» ; and those having any de
mands against are desired to bring in
their accounts, to
JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN, iff > Execu-
MALLET PREVALT, $ tors.
Sept. 18.
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Stretl.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING buficd for some time past in prepara,
tions for removing into his prafent house, has
been under thcneceflity of poftponinguntil this day
informing the gentlemen oithe Bar generally thro
the United States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for lale, on
terms that he trusts will entitle him to the like pre
frcence he has experienced for lcveral years past.
Catalogues, aombining the most varied collec
tion ever imported i/ito this country, are printed
and will be delivered on applieation.
[une 37- 6w
City Commijfioners' Office,
June 21, 1797/
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the felc#
and common councils, pal Ted the izd day of
May last, appointing the city cwnimiflioners,
and orefcribing their duties, feflion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diftridls,
eac h to be under tbe fuperintendance of one of
the city commiflioners, whoistobe individually
relponfible for the cleanlihefs of the fame, and
are as follow. '
Driftriil No. «. From the south fide of Ce
dar-street, to the north fide of Spruce-street, un
rthe fuperißtendence of Nathan Boys,
a. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
the north fide of Walnut-ftreet,under the super
intendence of Hugh Robtrrts.
3. From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide of Kigh-ftreet, under the superintendence of
Joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-street, to the
»orth fidr of Mulberry street, under the super
intendence of William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberry street to
the north fide of Vine-street, under (he luper
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
Thecleaningof High-street to be in common.
£5" A ftaSed meeting of the city commiflion
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock.
July >4- eolm
Stands for Draymen, &V.
In purfuanet of an Ordinance from theSeleft and
Common Councils, bearing date the nd day of
April, 1797. providing for tbe appointment of
City Commijfioners, &c. Seft. the lsth.
THE following places are fixed upon by the
said City Commiflioners for Stands for
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-street, eastward of Front-street, on
both fides. '
SafTifras, High r Chefnut and tValnut-fttreets,
eastward of Front-street, on the no. th fide only.
Moltarry-ftreet, south fide from Front to
Third-street.
Front-street, east fide from Vine-street to
Elfrith's alley. „
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Waler-ftreet, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Moorr's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce-Jar-ftreet, weft
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South streets, east of Front
street, fotith fide.
Dock-street, between Walnut-street and the
flag stone crogngs, east fide, opposite Gfeorge
OrkUy's. „ _ r ....
Second-street, between Saflafras and Vine
ftrerts, weft fide.
Fihh-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry-streets.
Saflafras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-street,
M No drav or horse to stand within ten feet of
'"lrTfbs FOR HACKNEY COACHES t
Piue-llreet, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
between Chefnut and Walnut
C 'Branch-ftreet, north fide,between Third and
Fourth ftteets. ' mw& fxm
July i 4«
LAW BOOKS,
Latell London and Dublin Editions.
H. fef P. RICE, Booksellers;
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
BAVE just received by the lite arrivals from
London and Dublin, then spring importa
tion, confiding of a variety of the latest and most
approved I.aw Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the moll extenftve colled ion ev
er offered for fa!e in this country. They thei cfore |
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of
conne&icnsin Dublin, they are enabled to fell Irish
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowest prices. The followingjare among the latett
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 2 Vv.l».
PAke*s Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Report*
in the lime of Lord Hardwicko ; Floyer's Profilers
Practice in the Ecclesiastical Courts ; Barton's
Trcatife on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's Pra&ice of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal A&ions, 2
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, 11 vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rice expe.dl ta receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, the 2d part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 26.
The Hlftory of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and will be publifhetJ,
with all convenient expedition, by Zicha
riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-llreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposals, until the
work is ready for the subscriber».
July tB. lawtf
THIS DAY%AS PUBLISHED,
And for sale by THOMAS DOBSON, at the
Stone House, No. 41, south Second flreet,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Contorting of a variety of Mifeellaneous Pieces for
the inftruflion and amusement of YOUNG PER
SONS—Six Volumes handsomely printedand bound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these pieces arc
such, that the book needs only to be known to be
universally efleemed one of the moil valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the hands of young
jwrfons.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
7*o teach the young idea how tu (hoot.
To pour th. freih infiruflion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivening spirit, and to fix
The g.nerous purpose in the glowing breast."
• Tuomson.
AugUst i4> mwf4w
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS HQBSON, at the Stone Houfr,
No. 41, south Second street.
Letters and Conversations,
Between fevcral Young Ladiet,an improving and i»-
terefting fubje&s.
Translated from the Dutch of Madame de Camion
with alterations and improvements,
Printed onfne paper , and utally bound,
Price one dollar.
AMIDST thetide of modern Romances, painting
tales .f extraordinary distress, or of defperal* or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comas forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the b.unds of real lift, the proper, becaufa
elegant and natural dignity and importance of th. Female
character is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
Th. publilher was fomuch pleafedwith the peru
sal, that he was persuaded he should do a pleating
ferviac to th. community by fending it tiro circu
lation. August t4—mw4w
Ad laying Duties on Stamped Vellu m
Parchment and Paper.
A TEW copies of the above a& may be had a)
he Office of the Gazetuaf she Vnited States, N*.
119, Chcfinu-fWcet. July 19.
The Partnership,
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN & Company,
is dilTolved by mutual consent. All perfoos
having any demands against thefaid House are de
sired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to the House are desired to make pay
ment to him—By whom bufinel's will in future be
carried on,at his Store, No. 29, South Front-ilreet.
August 7. eod4W
Richard and James Potter
HAVE rc.ioved thoir Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-fwcet.
August «. w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijburgb Carlijle,
Sbtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THfe public are requcfted to take notice, that
the partnerlhip which bus for fometpim. sub
sisted betweon Mathias Sleugh of Lancaster, and
William Geer, i» now diflolved : but, not as M.
Slough infinuatest. the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je<st from M. Slough to W. Oeer, dated the 519 th
December I aft. a recital »f which is Rot now deem
ed necefTary. Any gentleman who wifhss to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the pertkal «f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfeilly juflifiable in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this business, William Geer, in conjunction with
MefTrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to pi-ofecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horse*, and every appurtenance to
render the paffagc fife and commodious, inform
those wno wilh to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the 'White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
eftablifhnd.
For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from thcuce and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that pafTengers deflined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed o«i Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 27, 1797-
N. B. This Line of Stages ftarto from th«
house of William Ferroe, in Lancaster, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'oloik, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : pe-forrr.:ng the
fame routine daily a: in its tour from Philadel
phia. mwf
Thomas Heuman Leuffer,
North fifth (Irett, corner of North alley, No. 34, 1
HAS FOR SALE,
EXCELLENT red bourdeaux Wine in cases and
boxes, fix years old
White Graves Wine in caiks
Ticklenburgs . ' ' *
Ruflia Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck
Bag Linen
Heilhns
Diaper avid Tabic Cloth I
Empty bags
Common CJerman Cloth
aflortmentof black coloured Ribbons
l ine German Laces 1
About twelve tons Ruflia clean Hemp 1
Clover-Seed I
Italian Soap, in small boies, for family use {
Windoyv GlaJ's Aug 19 —lavy r
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy ■
Ditto- ' ditti Claret in cases t
Just received, and for Sale by r
Run die & Leech. t
Au<r. si. aawtf i
■ | j
Will be Landed,
From on board the /hip Adive, Capt. Blair,from 1
Hamburgh, c
20 bales white Ruflia clean Hemp
2 calks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth ftoeet, No. 34. (
Tunc z6. $ (
Young Hyson Tea. ;
40 chefls of a superior quality—Alio, 1
100 do.of Hyson,
Imported in the IVoodrop Sims, and for sale by
the fubferiber, corner of Second and Pine f
ftrect. ,
C. Haight. 1
June 11. eotf
imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-street, ,
Hyson
Hyson Skin CpEAS
Young Hyson C
Imperial J
April 20. rots
For sale or to be let on groilnd
rent,
A-valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-eift corner of Wal
nut and Fiftli flreets, fronting the State-
Houfefquare. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut flreet, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there ase at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry and SafTafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, tben widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Theft houses
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoini»g
on the north fide, and are a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour faflor,or others who
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable twms
forcafh. For further information apply to the
printer.
July 31. m&wtf
T 0-B E SOLD,
And poJJlffton given immediately,
A LARGE two story brick Houfe,handfomely
situated in Princeton. Thwe are four rooms
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret,, a range of back buildings 51 feet in
length, anda piazza of 57 feet. Thereisapump
in the yard, an excelleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
stables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two (tables for 7,1 horses. The heal
thiness and pleasantness ot its situation, and the
number of genteel and agreeable families in and
ntar the town, render it a desirable rctreeat for a
gentleman from the city. The commodioufnefs of
the house, its central position, and the largeness of
fche flables, make it every way fuitablefera tavern, for
which it has always been confidcrd as a capital
ftaad. Inquire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Aog. 25. 29 —drwaawtf
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent 1 welling-houfe io,oco dollars,
St. cafti 30,000, are 50,000
I ditto 15,000 Sc cast 15,009 40,00.0
1 ditto 15,000 .V cafli 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cafli to,ooo 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 io,oon
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 cafli prize of 10,000
» do. j,OOO each,are ■ • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - ' 10,00 c
10 do. 500 - - xO,OOO
00 do. 100 • - 10,000
»oo do. 50 - 10,000
400 do. 15 - 10,000
1,000 do. »o - 10,000
15,000 do. 10 - 159,000
16,739 Prizes.
33,361 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,00®
N. B. Tofavour thofewh# may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either
monsy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elagant specimen of
the private buildings to be created in the City of
Washington—Two defigus are already
leleifled for the entire fronts on two of the public
, fquarcsj from these drawings it ispropofedtoereifl
two centreand r our corner baildings.as soon a# pos
sible after this lottery isfold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
hotter)'. A nett deduftion of five per cent, will
be made to defray the neceflary expenses of print
ing, (fee, and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Univerlity, to
be ere&ed within the city of Wafliington.
The real fecurittesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are Valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tieketssnay be had at the Bank of Colsm
-I*3 ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Fetcr
lGilmae, Boston ; of Joha Hopkins, Richmond ;
knd of Richard Wslls, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
y '
This Day Published,
A»d 10 be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, «orHer of
Second and Ghefnut streets,
Price of a Dollar y
Observations on certain Documents
Contained i& No. V and VI of J
" The Hi story of the United States for S
the, year 1796," 0
In which the cu ahge or speculation against a
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasury, is FULLY ,
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
Thris prcfents a concifc statement
of the base means praitifed by the Jacobins of the ,
United States to afyerX'c the charadlers of thofc {
ptrfons who arc considered as hostile to their difor- \
ganizing schemes. It also contains the cor- t
refpondence between Mr. Hamilton and Meflrs. j
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on the l'ub
je<st of the documents aforcfaid, and a furies of let-
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha-
milton, proving beyond the pofTibility of a doubt, -
that the connedion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring confpiraoy on the part
bf the latter and his afiociatfes to extort money.
A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ot wholefate purchasers, for
cash. Orders to be addrefled to Mr. Yoitng.
Auvufl
No. 18-8. '
Diftrid of Pdnnfylvania, to wit :
/ L s \ DB IT REMEMBERED, that en the
l L * S 'J J3 twenty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Fenno, of the said dtf- (
tridl,hath depofitedin this office the title of a book,
th« right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit:—
" Observations on certain documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of " The History of the Unit*
" «d States for the year in which the charge
" of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, late
c< Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
" Written by himfelf.'*
In conformity to ?he a6l of the Congrcfs of the
Ueited States, entitulcd, " An aft for the encour
agement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors anJ propri
etors of such copies, during \h« tunes therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the DifriSi tf Pennfylvnn'ta,
July 2J. > W4W
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and elegant house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There kre two drawing rooms
and one dining room —the largest is 31 feet by
a6 —and two are so conneiltd by folding doors
as to make but one. Also, five bed rooms, be
sides j in the garret, well firtiihed for fervanu.
There are stables and a coach house, with evry
convenience for a family. Enquire at No. 19,
in North Seventh ftrett, or at No. 218, Arch
Street.
Au*. J?j oavrjw.
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. £4 south Second-f.reet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, wfcich
commanced drawißg the 59th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tifltetswill rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the l&ft day ot
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination and register
ing, in the Canal, No. 1, City of Walhington, No.
», and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets for sale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the course ef the summer.
The business of a Broker in alt kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &c. tranfa&ed wlih the
utmost a-tention.
June x tu&f
Erfliine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second ftrect,
[Price 31 Centa]
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May'ls §
STATE TRIALS.
Sold b W. Young, Bookseller, No. j», South Se
cond-ftrect,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acijait
al of Francis Hopkinfon, Judge of the Court of
admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, j
dollars.
W. Youxc has for sale, a general affortmentof
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the fwek
, ege, well allorted, and entitled to the drawback if
) axparted. July 7 —*
For Sale,
) That well known place, coiled Vandioriy t's
, f F R R Y,
) /"vN Nefhaminy eredc, 18 miles from Phili
, \_y ladelphia, on the New York port road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premife6are a large two story stone house occu
-1 pied as a tvern, aiyl a good one flory flonekit
> chen, a large frame stable with a gnf'd threfhirvg
) flo6r, and tome oul buildings—also a well of
> good water, and an excellent ice Hou(e, On
, this place is a moll elegant situation fora gentle
> man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny to its junflion wiih the Delawa»e, and thence
acrofsto the Jersey (bore. >t has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Sab/criber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
Yay 14. itawtf.
\ COLUMBIA HOUSE
1 Boarding School for young Ladies.
r A/r iiS, GROOMBRIDGE with m«ch pleaf
-1 IVI ureand refpeft, returns her sincere ac
- knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years refidenee in
f Philadelphia; and afiures her friends and the
f public, so far from intending to decline her
f lchool, (be has made a superior arrangement for
c the more convenient accommodation of her
1 scholars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite
*' education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
• Groombridge and mailers excelling in their
' refpeiliveprofeffions.
, Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
1 June <th, 1797- Jimfrf
j The situation is perfectly healtky ; and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the houte.
Juj} Published,
t And to be had of MeiTrs. Dofefon, Campbell,Rice,
Cory, and the other pricipal Booksellers in the
city,price one dollar, twinty-five cents,in boards,
■ New Views of the Origin of the
; Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, M. d.
June ao.
School Books and Stationary. '
W. YOUN G,
No. C 2, Second-fireet, corner of Chefnut-ftrect.
HAS now rra-ly for sale, a very large affort
meilt of Einljb, French, Latin and Gteek
SCHOOL BOOKS, such elementary books
on Science, ,as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the Gxth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large 12 mo price 1 dol, 75 cts.
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper; Bookbinder's Boards, Pafteboirds,
(heathing and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, of
the best quality, used in the counting house, or
public office. .
Catalogues of a miscellaneous collection of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. o<sl. 24. —3aw6w
JuJl Fulli/hed, and now Selling,
By BENJAMIN DAVIES,
At his Bdok-Storf, No 68, Hiph-Street,
The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AND
ANNUAL REGISTER for tic UNIT ED STATES
TOR THE YEAR 1798 :
Containing complete and correal lifts of the Exetfli
tive, i cgiflative and Judiciary
DEPARTMENTS of GOVERNMENT,
And a variety of ufsful tables, ncceffarv to be
known in every State of the Union.
Embellijhed ivitb tiuo handsome Engravings,
One of which is depidtive of a melancholy scene
that occurred during the American war.
OA. iS.
7he Philadelphia, Atfiun, and 1 uckerton
MAIL STAGE.
PIE proprietors beg leave to itfurm the public, that
tbey have ejiablijhed a Stage between Philadelphia ,
Atjion, Batflo, Hampton, Speedwell, and Martha Fur
tiaee, IVading River flitting mill, and the toivn of Tuck
erton, in New-Jersey, to go once a iweek r and are provi
ded ivitb good horses, a comfortable carriage, and a care
ful driver, for the conveyance of • the mail,paffengere, and
goods. The Stage will fart every Thursday, ct I©
o'clock, A. M. from Mr. Daniel Cooper s Perry, and
lodge that night at Joel Bodinej, at Longacoming ; and
on on Friday, at 6 9 clock, P. M. arrive at Caleb E- >.
vans's, inkeeper, in Tuckerton, dip ant from the city 54
miles, (from the Atlantic 6, and from the Eafl Groufmg
Plains 7 miles J where are good accommodations for tra
vellers, and where are commodious and fafe pajfage boats
pravided to convey pajjengers to Capt. IVilliam War
rington s house, on Tucker's Island, adjoinining the At
lantic, when are good accommvaations, and a convenient
place to bathe ; the fportfrnan who wijbes to regale Limfelf
with fowling and ffhing % may at this place be highly gra
tified, there being at aimoji every season of the year fowl
andfjh in abundance.—The Stage on its return,farts
from the aforefaid C, Evans's in Tucket ton, every Tues
day, at 6 0 clock, A. M. bre.ikfafls at John Bodine's, at
Wading River Bridge, lodge that night at Longacoming,
and at 1 0 clock, P. AT. on Wednesday, arrive at the
aforefaid Cooper s Ferry. It is presumed thai no route of
an equal dijtance will be less expenftve, or furnifh the tra
veller with a greater variety of amusement, as he will
not only have a p leaf ant fail to the atlant.c from Tucker
ton, but have the curioftty of feeing on the road thither a f
number of capital furnaces and forges, and one flitting
mill, in complete order, and at work ; gentlemen, too, who
are owners, or faftors, of any of the aforefaid iron works,
are soli cited to encourage andfuppnrt this sage (by which
they can be so well accommodated) the continuance of which
will much depend on their aid. The rates of pajfengers
and baggage are as follows : For a pajfenger from the
aforefaid Daniel Cooper s Ferry to Tuckerton, including
J4 lb. of baggage, Two Dollars ; fcr way pajfengers
per mile, Four Cents—lsG lb. of baggage equal to a paf
| fencer. Pof age of letter*, newspapers, tV"c. will be
1 agreeably to law.
iV. B. The mail crosses from the Old .Ferry,
THOMAS IVARDLE Iff Co.
\ Tuekerton, Sept. 2s. Off. 5. —2awf
The Norfolk Mail .STAGET '
THI3 Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, ill
Philadelphia, every Tueffay, Thursday, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, ia the irorning ; arrives at Do
ver the firft day, at Snowhitl the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the passengers find
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
every Tuefdiy, Thurfiay and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Friday; puts up at Snow
- Hill the firft night, at Dover the ad night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, i 9 So miles lefs'than on any stage route
between those places.
TOO much cannot be said in favor of the road,
f which is roost excellent indeed. The proprietors
- willingly engage to return the whole fare to
5 paiTenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay thai he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
f diftanae, so good a road in America.
Aiu'uft 11. dim. eotf.
f
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
iheCity—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to 19 by 14,
By the single Box or Quantiiy, may be had at the
' store of the Subscribers, corner of Arch and Fronfr
; street.
'James C. Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, June 9, 17,7.
| Lately Published,
. In <me vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar in boards) fold
by WILI.IAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
» Chefnut streets,
: A Colle&ion of Papers on the fubjedt of
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years past.
Compiled by NOAH IVEDSTER, jun.
Containing letters from Doctors Seaman, Smith*
" Buel, Taylor, Ramsay. Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch#
ell,on contagion, &c. &».
Sept.
; ~ THE SUBSCRIBERS,
t ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREENLEAF,
1 HEREBY give notice, that they have difpofecf
of the p»opetty afligned to them for the i'ecuring
r the payment of the Sore 1 , acceptances, *nd en
r dorleinents given by Edward Fox, for the use
r of the said James Greenlesf; and the holders of
r such notss, acceptances, and endorsements, are
. hereby notifyed thai the fubferibers will fettle
r with them for the amount of their re!pe<Sive
elaims, br>th principal and interest, at
any rime before the «cth day of Oflober next ;
after which day. the holders not applying, will
e be excluded, agreeably to th« terms of aflign
t ment.
Applications to be made at south-east corner
of Dock and Second streets (the Dock-street
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
stock evtry 4ay, Sundays excepted.
c ' henry Pratt,
~ Tho. IF. Francis,
; John Miller, Jun.
John AJbley,
Jacob Baktr.
Phil*delphia,Augwft jB, 1797. i