Gf «je Willlitu f,0 9 A™ Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 5577. ]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales .
For DRY GOODS.
r Foitenoon —Edward Fox, No. j6i t |. ()
* r , ) fourth Fronl-fbeet, me
Mondttj-z y \f t( . rr)onn —Footman & Co. No. 65 tar
( South Front-street.
( Forenoon—John Cortnrtly, Old City
_ r , ) Audlion, No. 73 fou,4i i'ron.t-ftreet.
Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C. High-street.
... , C Ai'terncon —Peter Aenfon, No. 74 ,
fclJt h Third-ftr«t. (h ,
~ ( Forenoon—Edward Fox.
1 } Afternoon —John Connelly.
... Forenoon —Will vus Shannon.
ruia J 5 Afternoon —John Connelly.
Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
For Hamburgh, Ar
The good Brig
Sukey,
Isaac Vrcdenburgh, Master,
NOW lying at Clifford's wharf, in complet _
order to rake in a cargo, and will receive
'freight on low terms.
Pleale to apply to GEORGE DOBSON,
No: 15 ftiuth Third-ftretf.
N. B A few 'passengers can be accommodat-
ed, if speedy application is made. ve "
SfP l - Ni
HAVANNA SUGARS. -b
FOR SALE,
"1400 boxes and calks prime white Havan
na SUGARS, ev
On board the ship Hamburgh Packet, Silas St
Swain, Master, now lying at Marcus Hook. M
For terms, apply to Capt. Swain, on board, to H
Capt- Samui L Smith, in Front, near Wal
nut street, or to . 4:1
Philip Nicilin, & Co.
Who offer the said Ship
Hamburgh Packet
J§BSS^- For SALE or CHARTER. 1
She is tons register, coppered to the bends,
fails remarkab'y faft, and «an be ready tore- w
ceive a cargo in a few days. d,
Sept. 21. daw .
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
fitate, and now landing from on board the A
Brit; Aaive, William Williams, Master,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof, (
And for Sale bv
yehu Hollingpworth & Co. (l
Wilmington, Sept.ai. dtf
*" N. B. The above Brig,
and the brig GAYOSO, are
alio for Sale or Charter, and
ready to receive a cargo
on board, at Wilmingtop. Arp'y as above.
for Savannah,
1 The faft failing ship, 0
SWIFT PACKET, I
Pa t * lc * Gribbim, Mafler, ,
S Now lying opposite th: mouth .\
of Frankford Creek, his handsome accomino»la- )<
tions for passenger., and will fail on or about t'
the Ift ef Oiflober.* n
For freight or piffige apply to the master on 1
board, or of the fublcribers at Frankford, 5 !•» v
miles from Philadelphia.
Nalbro £ff J. Frazier. ,
Frankford, Sept. ift. dtiftQ« c
For HAMBURGH, ~
.- "TPHE Copper Bottomed Ship
i FAVORITE, John
Thompson, Miller, now at
Bright'# wharf, and will be rea- •(
to take mon Monday next, (
part of her cargobeing engaged ;
and ready to go on board. The (hip is so well
known, that it is needless to describe her. She (
is now in compleat order. For Freight or Pas- ,
sage, please to apply at Mr. Jeremiah Warder's •
Compting House. No. 12, North Third street, «
or to the Master on bord. •
August 30.
For SALE, ;
On bnard the said Ship, Swedish Iron, assorted
Hollowand Window Glass, Demyjokns, Wrap
ping Paper for Sugar Refiners, Rugs of I & »
Quality. Please to'apply as above.
wf&m4W
T O B E'S O'LD,
And possession given immediately,
\ LARGE cwo ilory brick House, handsomely
MX. situated in Princeton. There are four rooms
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings 51 feet in
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. T here is a puir.p
in the yard, an extelleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
stables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the. two (tables for 27 hcrfes. The hcal
thinefs and plcafantnefs of its situation, and the
number of geilteel and agreeable families in and
ntar the town, reader it a desirable retreeat for a
gentleman from the city. The commodioufncfs of
the house, its central position, and the largeness of
the flables,make itjevcry way fuitableforatavcrn, for
which it has always been confiderd as a capital
fland. Inquire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. 25. .29—dtw2a.wtf
" NOTICE.
IF Tbedy O'Hara, whofome years fincekept
Schoel at the Nine Bridges, Queen's County, liaf
tefn Shore, Maryland, be living, he it, hereby re
fninded to call on, cr write to, the Rev. Ambrose
Marihal, near Warwick, Cecil County, F.aftern
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will receive 111-
terefring information.
4. mw&f 4 w
?0 BE SOLD VERT CHEAP !
A Light VV A GGON almoll new, with a frame—
and a pair of hamefs (Englilh collars) hus never
been Used—price 90 Dolls.
A Horse 16 hands high, seven years old—and a
new c\«. r, with a falling top and harnefs —310.
Enquire No. 331, Marku-ftrect
August 24- Iw
PETER BORGER,
INFORMS hi* friends and the public in general
that he has removed from No. 119, corner of
Arch and Fourth, to No. 105 North Front, be
tween Arch ®r.d Racfi ftrccts;
July
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER U, *797-
The Partnferfhip,
UND*R the firm of FREEM AN ts" Company,
is difiolved by mutual consent. All persons
having any riemandfc ag»in."l tkefaid House are dc- > ini
fired to render the fame' to 'l'. B. Freeman ; and qJe
those indebted to chr House are deiired to make pay- by
ment to him—By whom bufiriefs will in future be f ir ,
Carried on,at hi« Store, No. 39, South Front-flreet. w ;
Au*ttjl 7 eod4\v Uj
Young Hyioii Tea.
40 chcfta of 1 superior quality —\lfo, w
100 do.us Hyson, he
Imported in the 11 r aodrop Sims, anil for sale by
the fubferiber, corner of Second and Pine
street. i
C. liaigkt. J-
June 21. eotf at(
Imported in the ship Pigou, " y
And for faleby John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-street,
Hyson
Hyson Skin ( TEAS
Toting Hylon I v _
Imperial J
' April 20. c otf In
: ~The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in p.
Philadelphia, ( very TuefJay, Tburfiay, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the iroruiug ; arrives at Ho- 31
ver the fir it cav, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and 011
the morning of the fourth day th'e paffengcrs find Bi
a sale aHd aomfortable packet to convey thafti to el
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
every Tucfday, Thursday and Saturday, and the
s Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
. Monday, Wednesday and Friday ;jputs up at Snow
5 Hill the firft night, at Dover.the ad night,and ar- c
rives is Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day. , C
The distance on this route, between Philadelphia te
and Norfolk, i« Jo miles less than on any stage route y ,
between those places, f c
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeod. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whale fare to any
'' passenger, who, after having performed this route,
' will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a roajj in America. tl
August 11. dim.eotf. S i
t This Day Published,
e And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of w
Second and Chefnut streets,
; Price $-%tbs of a Dollar,
' Observations on certain Documents
Contained ifc No. V and VI of
" The History of the United Stat«« for
r the year 1796," {
>9 In which the charge of speculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, t .
Late StCRETAEY of the Treasury, is f-'ULLY n
REFUTED. v
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF. aj
This publication presents a concise rtatement 0
of the base means pra&ifed by the Jacobins of the a
United States to afperfc the chara&ars of those
1 j pylons who arc cotrfidcrcdas iioftttc diifcr
gawizing schemes. it also contains the cor-
r > refponderce between Mr. Hamilton and Meflrs.
h Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Vcnab'e, on the fub
a- je& of the documents aforefaid, and a scries of let- r
utters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Ha
milton, proving beyond the portability of a doubt,
,n that the connexion between \\im and 'Reynold*, t
was therefultof a daring confpiraay on the part
of the latter and his aflociates to extort money* c
A discount of one third from the retail price c
will be made in favor ot wholefaie purchalcr*, for r
cash. Orders to be addrefled to Mr Yowno j
August 35.
'? No. 188.
' N , Difir'u 1 of Pcnnfylvania, to wit :
•a- I D B If REMEMBERED, that on thi
(( ' L '« Jj twenty sixth d3y of July, in the twen
j ty second year of the independence of the Unired
e ,j States of America, John Ftnno, of the said dif
? tri<ft, hath deposited in this office the title of a book,
? the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
, words following, to wit : %
r 3 " Observations on certain documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of " The HilYory of tjie Unit- \
" ed States for the year 1796," in which the charge
" of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, late
u Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
In conformity to the a& of tlieConjrcfß of the
Ucited States, enrituled, u A» aSi for
agement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors anc? propri
■— etors of such copies, duting the times therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
ely Clerk of tie DiJiriß of Pcnirfylvanid.
Ims July 17. W4>v
'j* Mrs. G RATTAN
n- p friends,and the public in general,
the ,that her house, No. 191, Market-street, will con
wo tinue open during the fiekneft.
,ith Board and Lodging in a separate room, ten
ca l. dollars, in a double room, eight dollars.
the F° r the convenience of those gentlemen who
an d have not their amilies in town, Mrs. ©rattan
- r a will receive gentlemen to dine at half a dollar
s os a day. Agy/i 29.— 6t
Imported in the latest arrivals from
>ital Amflerdam and Hamburg, andiorfaleby
B. J. Bohlen,
' A large ajfortment of fine French Cambrics,
PlatilUs Rufiia and Dutch I'ailcloth
B r fttannias Writing, post, and print-
Rouanes ing paper
kept Brown Holland Du'ch calf fkinj
Eaf- Checks and flripes Prime madder
re- Ticklenburgs SliellM Barley
ro^e Oznahui gs Looking glasses
* ern White Iheetings Hollow giais ware
: U1 " Diaper Slates
Brown rolls Coffee mills
w Umbrellas Brass kettles
' / Hair ribbons Scythes arid draw knives
nc Black and whitelaces Toys assorted in boxes
ever Bill Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Madeira Wine
nd a July 24. m&thtf
I. 7
treet Cedar Shingles.
HE fubferiber has a quantity ,of 3 feet Cedar
Shingles cf a superior quality, for sale at 13
neral dollars p-r thousand.
r b ° f William Hallow ell,
A'«. 193 North Thirdflreet.
pv Jily 17. tout
By John Fenno, N°* 119 Chefnut Street
CUSTOM-HOUSE,
Philadelphia, Sept. iad, 1707.
THE Me' chants who at this time prefer bav- VJ
ing their vessel? and Merchandize entered and kin
cleared at or Marcus Hock, —are here
by notified, That in ccnipliante with their >le- and
fire, and upon a full conviflion that the measure gro
will be mutually benefic't! to thein and to the fru
Ujiited States. The collector of th* cuftontishas to«
made arrangements to t'UMifii F r some time or:
bran.hes of the cuPoib-I ufr ar those places, on
where every accommodation in his power will of
be given to the merchants. dlw me
TO BE SOLD, : Si
And immediate possession given, j
A Convenient well finished Brick Tenement, ipg
with a cook house anil other out houfe«,fitu- fii,
atcd in a pleasant y .rt, of the borough of Wilming* p C |
ton, in the State of Delawari—The lot of ground at |
has forty feet front on Wcl-ftreet, and extends jjj (
through the square to Pasture-street, on vhich is |j v
ereded a liable and carri">"' nonfe. r'
ALT. EN M'I.ANE. / ot ,
Wilmington, .Aug. j n g
Lately Pub'ifhed,
In one vol. 8 vo. (price ont dollar in boards) fold j!'!'
hy WILLIAM YO'JNO., coroer of Second and J, 1 "
Chefnu' streets, '
A Colleftion of Papers on the fubjeS of
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years puft. 0 f
Compiled hy NOAH H J-BSTER, ftm. tl)<
Containing letters from Doftors Seaman,Spiith,
Buel, Taylor, Ramsay, Monfou, Reynolds, Mitch
ell,oll contagion, jcc. &c. <•
ft. tt
- mt
City Commijftoaers Office, 1,11
August 29, ¥ 797- m ;
IN purfuancc of an Ordin.-' <: if the Sele.4 and j c
Comrnon Councils, paffed.il> !d"v TMiyKil.
Proposals in writing willhe reeeivrji hy the City
Commifliooers for one month from the ill of Sep-
tember next, for letting tp rent on kafes for o«je
year tn commence the firft day of January next, the
following public property of the city— IN
The wharf an l landing on Vine Street,
Also on Saftafras,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Ohofnut and Walnut Streets, »raw Bridge, with
the Scale and Fife Houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedar 66
Streets. 10
The cellar under the City-Hall. gg
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill, fq,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much fq
thereof as shall be occupied by any buildings ereift- f q
ed for the use of the Collector of the Tolls, or be
necelftry for the toll-gates.) ne
Ang. 3 3tawim. c a
LOST, £
ON the Paffyunk Road, between the Blue Ball
and the city, a Fowling Piece, with a brass b[
barrel and silver fight; on the plate of the butt are
the letters " Jamaica, 99" —and on the barrel Qt
nev the lock "• Eondon" and the Tower (lamp.
Whoever will return the 'aid piece to John Bennari,
at the sign of the Ball on the Paffyunk Road,
or the office of this Gazette, shall receive a reward
of Four Trench Crowns,
Sept. i». *3t
DUTY ON CARRIAGES. h
Notice is hereby Given,
T"*HAT agreeably to an ail of Congref" ef the
United States of America, passed at Phila- A
delphia, the 18th day of May, 1796 ; laying dun
ties on Carriage*, for the conveyance of perfoiw, »
which shall be kept by or for any perfoo, for his »
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the b.
conveyance of paffecgers, the several duties and h
rates following, to wit : ti
For aai upon every Coach, 15 dols. ti
upoa every CI ariot, 11 dolft. f
upon every Post Chariot, 11 dols. f
upon every Post Chaise, 11 dols. a
upon every Phaeton, vjrith or without top,
9 dols.
I upon evry Coacher, 9 dol».
upon other Carriage", having pannelwork
above, with blinds, glasses or curtains,. -
. 1 9 dols. '
: 1 upon ftur wheeled Carriages, having Tra
ined polls and topi with ftcel
IL dols. J
■ I upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood- v
: envr iron or jack', 3 dols. a
- I upon Curricles with t©p«, 3 doll. t
upon Chijfes with tops, 3 dols. i j
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
» 1 upon other two whUel top carriages, 3 dols.
- I upon two wheel carriages, with Heel or
r I iron spring«, .3 dols.
" 1 For and upon all othei two wheel carriages, 2 dols.
-J upon every four wheeled carriage, having
'framed po.lsand tops, and resting up- (
1 on wooden spars, a dols. ,
The ColleAors of the Revenue for the firft Sur- j
I vcy of the piflria of Pcnnfylvania, will attend (
*" daily, until the 3cth day of September n-xt, lor (
I the purpose of receiving the duties oil Carriages, at
j Germantown; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Elq.
" in the County of Montgomery, and at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks;
N of which all persons possessed of such Carriages arc
desired to take notice.
° Notice is alio given,
a TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will be grant
- ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the bufi
n nc fs of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi-
I rituous liquors in less quantities than 10 gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
th crs leeally anthorifed to grant such licence;.
;y_ WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeilor of the Revenue of the firft fui
vey of the Diftria of Pcnnfylvania.
Office ot InfpeSion at ") (Jim
I Germantow, iith Sept. 17,97. J
IMPORTED
I lu thelhip America, James Kwing, saafter, from
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands
White Piatillas ,
es " I Ticklenbnrgs
Coarse Linens
Tapes
Looking Glasses ") cafttS
Glaffi I'umblers j
I to* SALE BY
George Pennock.
Amuti T4- 3 aw
lnr Aft laying Duties on Stamped Vellum,
13 Parchment and Paper.
I A FEW copies of the above aft may be had at
I the Office of tho Gazette of the Uaited States, No
t j 119, Chefuut-ftreet. Juty 1 9-'
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
ON Friday the 29th infiant, precisely at three; Xo:
o'clock in the afternoon, at the f'gn of the
king of Pruffts, near the market house in Ger- T^ 1
mantov* n,a two story ftor.e dwelling house, barn I „
and flable and lot of acres 16 perches of \vl
ground, part «f which is an orchard 6f exteileiH 'ir
fruit trees, fitnate near the middle of German- R u:
town, on the north east tide of the main street
or road, containing in front 011 the laid street \t
or ' 1
of Dr. Betton and o'Jiers and opposite to the 13
messuage and lot of Melchior Ming, The above
lot is good clover meadow, and has a never
failing stream of water running through it. p m
Alio three other l-ots of ground, each contain-
ipg about two acrefs, Ctuate on the south c-aft
fide of Rittenh jt.fe's Mill road, commonly called | ta j
Peter Smiths Lane, in Gcrmantown townfeip, W ii
at the distance of lyo yards from the fot'th weft
fide of the Gcrmantown main street, bounded
by land* of Conrad Carpenter, James Ogleby,
Jacob Keout, and Melchior Ming. The above
lots are high and p'safantly situated, command
ing a pleasing profpedt of Germantown and the (
Schuylkill and Wiffahircon hills, and are v eil COl
adapted for gentlemen's country feats. The the
said lots are now in clover, and there are or. the SO
fame upwards of aoo grafted fruit trees. op
A g»oil and indisputable titles clear of all in-
cumbtances, will be given to the purchaser ,J
twenty dsys after the sale, upon tta payment "_ ni
of one half of the purchale money, and fe m ing lca
the other half by mortgage upon the putchafed r tt |
premises.
Possession ef the firft deftribed lot and premi
fea may be had on the *7tla April next, and im
mediate possession may lie had of the thiee last
mentioned !ot».
Any pcrfon, wifti'mg to view the ahove ]:re
mile', may fee the fame b> applying to Benj.
in German'own near the Market
hooftf. ED A'ARD FOX, AuAioneer.
Germantown, i2d Sept. 1797.
Sundry Lots Be
IN the following Squares in the City of Waftiing
toD will be eapofed to P®3Lic Salt, hy the fub
fcribcrs, on the second Monday in October next,
at the little Hotel, in the laid City, to com
mence at 10 o'clock :
Square No. 31, 41, 43, 44, 47> 4'> 49> J°> Js> (a j
66,67,68,6?. 70; 73,74,75. 76, 77, 7«. 79. 1 " 1 . ar|
io», 105, H8,119, i»o, 141, 61,56, 84,104, 87,
88, 89, ie 4 , 114, 1 is, i»o, 61, 166, 80,103,
fquarc east of square 87, square south of square 104,
square north of fquarc 81, square east of square 88,
square north of square isß.
These Lots are advantageously situated in the -
neighborhood of the President's Square, and deem-
ed equal in value to any in the city, and will be
peremptorily fold; clear and valid titles will b«
made to the purchaser, on receipt of the purchase
money. Terms of sale, are, good notes, negotia-
ble at the Bank of Columbia, one fourth part 11 la,
one month, one other fourth in months, one —,
other fourth in five months, and the remaining one -7"
fourth in seven months.
WILLIAM DEAKINS, ju*. -r
URIAH FORJCEST. *
Sept. ti. dt3 v<
"Afthe Federal Blast Furnace,
In Carver—for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling tr
Mills. 8'
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THEIR fupenority conjfls in being free from
holes and hoary-combed places, which are com
monh found in rollers cafl in fund, or chy I
moulds. Theft patent rollers are cafl in iron
moulds, previously heated, and will be found to
be more dti/'e, fohd and durable than any rollers
heretofore uffid. Another important advantage "
they have ever others, is, that the necks require ft
no turning, but ar/pmmedaitely fit for life, and e
from thei accuracy, run with less friflioti, and 1
require less water to make them perform their
work, they may be bad by application to the
' Patentee zn Plymouth, sis Gen. Nathaniel Goo J- (
win, of of Messrs. Thatcher and Haywai'd c
Dcfloa, Aug. 3r. . £
Sept. 19. {]
Mr. LA IL SON,
WITH aii intention t« render fcrvice, and tiHe- '
1 ceive those Performers, who durißghis absence Mr.
Jaymond has thought proper to engage, thinks it c
would be wrong in him not to inform those tha*t 1
arc engaged, us withou his approbation,and
that lie will not be in any way anfwcrable for 'r.
< layißond's engagement».
PHILIPPE LAILSON. J
" Alexandre*, Srit. 15, 1797- 6t . ,
r v THESUBSCRIBERS,
• ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREENLEAF,
» HEHEbV giveViotice, that they have rlifpofed (
" of the property assigned to themfor the securing
the payment of the note, acceptances, and en
, doifements given by Edward Fox, lor the-ufe
ot'thefeid JameS Greenleaf; and the.holdeis of
j fudi notes, acceptances, and endorsements, ate
hereby notifyed the fubferiber. will fettle
' e with them for the amount of their refpeaive 1
. claims, both principal and interest, at
c any time before the acth day of Oilober next;
after which dav, the holders not applying, will
be exiluded, agreeably to the ternis of align
ment.
Applications to be made at south-east cprner
!" of Dork and Second streets (the Dock-street
l " fide), between the of eleven and one o'
>r clock every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tho. W. Francis,
c- J°^ n Miller, fun.
John Afhley,
, Jacob Baker.
Phdadelyhia.Augwft 18, 1797- d
Just published,
_ And to be fold at the Beokftores of H. iff P.
Rice, No. 50, Markct-llreet 1 J. Ormrod,
' m No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, anA W. Young,
isomer of Chefnut and Second-flreets,
An accurate System of Surveying;
IN WHICH IS CONTAINED,
I. Decimal fractions, in a plain, concise.
and easy manner.
a. The extraction of the square root.
3. Plain trigonometry, retlangulir and ob*
liquc. „ ,
4. An exa& method to call up the foiitents
ef lands.
~ 5. Field surveying.
' The whole being performed without the ute
offcale and compasses, on a table of logarithms.
Tn which is given some acc< unt of the variation
lat of the needle, ana the raufes of its attraSior.
No Bv SAMUEL MOOHE.
m AufnS». « wiw
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North fifth street, corner of North alley, No. 34,
HAS FQR SALE,
EXCELLENT red Bourdeaux Wine in caf»« a r -«l
\ y boxes, fix years old
White Gcaves VVine in cafles
Tirklenburga
Russia Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck
BagLiucn >i<
Hessians
Diaper a:)d Table Cloth
Empty bag* (
Caramon German Cloth C'
An affortmentof black coloured jlibbo#*
Fine German Laces
About twelve tons Russia clean Kemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in small boxet, for fatnjiy life
Window Glass Aug 29 "*w
THIS DAY WAS PUBLISHED, **
And for sale by THOMAS DOBSON, at the
Stone House, No. 41, south Second (Ireet,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Consisting of a variety of Mifeellaneous Pieces for
theinftrw&ion iind amufementof YOUNG PER
SONS—SixVolumeshandfomely printedand bound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence o( thefc pieces are
such, that the hook weedi only to be known to be
universally elleemed one of the moil valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the hands of young
parsons.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young id;a how t<» Qioot,
To pour th* ftefh inftru&ion o'er the mind,
To hreatheth' enlivening spirit, and to fix
The generous purpofc in the glowing breast. 1 *
Thomson.
August 24. mvrfyw
THIS DaY IS PBBUSHED,
By THOMAS DOS SON, at the Stone Houft,
No. 41, south Second (Ireet,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Tovng Ladies, on improving and ia
terelling fubjefls.
Translated from the Dutch of Madame <U Cuntysn
with alterations and improvements,
Printed Mlfine paper, and neatly hand.
Price one dollar.
AM IDST the tide of modern Romances,
tales «f extraordinary distress, or of defperaic or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul,' 1 and,
which it would be for the honor of young ladies t>o
be ignorant of, thii little book comes forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, btaauft
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
character is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel,
lence.
The publisher was fomuch pleafedwith the pert*-
sal, that he was persuaded he (hould do a pleasing
ferv'ice to the community by fending it into circu
lation. August 14 —mw4ir
T0 Master s and Pilots bringing up V(JJcls
from Foreign Ports to this City.
WHereas sundry infringements have lately been
made on the laws of this flat* for the pre
venting pestilential or infe&ious diseases, either
from ignorance or inattention there»«> it i.
expedient at thi**' io> following ex
tracts from the laws of lid April, 1794, 7th and
Bth fe&ions.
HEALTH-OrFICE.
June 6th, 1774.
Extra ft of an aS for securing the city and port
of Philadelphia from the introduction of pejli
' lential and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And be it further enaifled, that every
• matter or captain of Any ship or vessel coming from
>. sea (vessels actually employed n the coafttng trade
r excepted) and bound any port or place within
I the jnnfdi&ion of Pennfylvaiiiajflia'l cause hisP-iip ,
or vessel to be brought to «nchor,or otherwise flay
ed in the fir cam of the river Delaware, oppofita k>
the Health-Office on StaU-lflsnd aforefaid, and
there to remain until he shall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of healh from the Resident Phy
sician. And iI, previously to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any master or capr&in (hall
fufferhitlhip or vessel to approach nearer than the
said t0 , ' le cij y Philadelphia, oc
(ball land, cause or luffer to be landed, or brought
* on shore, at any place or port w'ithin this Com
, mDnwealth, or at any other port or place, with the
j intent ol being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
: any person or persons, or any goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving such bill of health
or certificate, he {hall neglect or refufe to deliver
the fanv to the Health-Officer, such mailer or cap
- tain (hall forfeit Mia p-.y, for each and every fuck
off>;n(!e! the fumef five hundred dollars.
And the captain or master of every (hip or vef
■ fel shall fend a fdfe and commodious boat to bring
' the physician on board, and shall in like manner
convey him back to the Hsalth-Officc, after he ha*
concluded his official examination ; And while he
e c is making such examination, or in rase any fubfe
qnent examination by the Health Officer or Con
e lulting Physician, agreeably to the directions of
' e thi ail, the master or captain (hall expole or caulc
,e> to be expoftd to the search of the Resident Phyfi
l! cian.or of the Health Officer and Consulting Phyfi
; cian (as the cafe may be) each and every part of the
II (hi/ or vessel, and (ball present to his view each
1- aiu! every person or perfors on board thereof, and
and (hali also true and fatisfa&ory answers
cr to all such qucftioiis as the Resident Physician, &o.
et at the time of examination (hall a(k relative to the
o' health of any port or place fr®m which the Clip or
vessel failed, or has since touched at—tlie number
of persons on board when the (hip or vessel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that hava
since been landed or taken on board, and when
and whererefpe<ftively>—what persons on board—
s they have bean during the voyage, or (hall, at
t.ic time of examination, be infedted with any pes
tilential or contagious disease—and what is the pre
— sent date and condition of the persons on board
with'rtfpeil to their health or diseases. And if
any master or captain (hall refufe to c*pofc as afore-
P. aid, to the search of any of the officers aforefaid,
rd, h if he (hall concealaryfick p:rfon,or in any other man
g, ,cr. deceive the prefer officers aforefaid in lis an/hvers,
uch captain or master, for every such offence, (hall
r . forfeit and pay the sum of rive hundred doi>-
'' LARS.
Sect. 8. And if amy verfon or persons whatfa
f"e, eTer (the Resident Phytfcian, &c. excepted) (hall
to on board any vessel, before the master thereof
Kas received a certificate of health in the manner
j direiled, every person so offending, (hall pay th«
um of ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS
nts -
IT being absolutely necessary that the foregoing
feflions (hould be punctually complied with, th«
life fubferiber, in compliance with his duty, mull ex
;ns. ail a rigorous observance of the lame, or else b«
f(fn uixJlx tlw neccffity of putting the laws in force,
or.. W». A LI. FN, Health Officer of th,
Pert Philddalpbia.
July 14- ,J * v ' r
[VQLVMn XIIMEDICINES.
THE Pqrr who may find it
diftanc-, tn make ufeof Mr. Hunter's truly me
ritorious offer, will be fupflied with medicine?—
f»'\ barley, oatmeal. See. hy ap- lying at the
fubfcribcr's store. No. Murket-flreet.
ROBERT f>. STAFFORD.
Tnfurance Company of the Srate |
of Pennsylvania.
THF. Office will be kept ufitil further notice at j
the School House in Germantown. The
Ccfripany still retain the room in Chefnut, above!
Seventh flreet, wbere a person will att.-nd to re
ceive and give an r wcrs to applications, every day
frurh to iihtil i o'clock.
Sept I-j. djtlawtf j
Bank of North America,
September Sth, 1797. J
ON Monday /lext the Notice' for all Notes or J
Bills payable at thisßank.which fall dueonthnt !
and the enfuinjj 6 days, will be served on the Fay- J
rrs: And the like Notices on every Monday, till j
the further ordersofthc Directors.—Persons wish- 1
ing to deposit iSitcs or' Bills for Collection, which
are to fall due within the week, mud tfcemfulves
undertake to give notice to the Payers. dtf
- The Health-Office "
I. c rrwjovd to the City-Hall, and is kept open ;
ri?'*and day, where person? having bufiri'fs jnay J
apply. Ww. ALLEN, Health-Officer.
Sept. 4. dtf !
NOTIC K. * .
l THF. Offices of the Department of War are for
the pr sent removed near to the Falls of the Scuyl
kill, on the Ridge Road.
Sep'emhcr a■ dtf ;
i'he Inhabitants of the DiltridJ;
of Southwark,
A RF. informed that a Coacheeis provided, to be
jl. - kept at the Conflables' office, the north east
earner cf Front and Almond streets, where the
friends of those sick persons who deflre to be re- j
moved to t{>< City Hospital, arc requested to males j
appUratiwi—Alfo, a Heart: will be kept in readi
ness for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE
N. B.— The Poor, who wijh to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may tie furniAed with orders
hy applying «s above. A*p. 39
Fir sale or to be let on ground-*
' rent,
J valuable Lot trf Ground ;
OITUATE ot the north-eift corner of W«I-
O nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
pret'ent two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Alfa, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient (lores,, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-Areet, between Mulberry and Saflafras
streets, containing in front o» Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward nine:y-fivc fest, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches, l'hefe houses j
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very defirabte situa
tion for a merchant, flour fa<nor,or others who '
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms ■
forcafh. For further information apply t» the '
printer.
July 31. m&ptf !
The Subscriber has for Sale,
A»large assortment «f India Muflirw, (
cmrfr a n <i fine
India Cal'.oes
Seoty Romalls <
Blue Cloths and Checks ;
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irilh Linens and Sheetings, well '
f a(Tortcd
A box of Diapers J
Silk Umbrellas ;
Two boxes ef fine Spices, cociining Nutmegs, ,
Mace and Cloves
Black Pepper of firft quality
Eifl India Ginger * s 1
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wine ]
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brim {lone .
Mordecai Lewis. j
Awuf! 11. aawlm j
At a Meeting of the Board of )
Property, June 6, 1797, ]
Present John Hall, See'ry. < t
Francis Johnfton, R. O. > oflandoffice
Dan. Brodhead, S. G j
Nicholas Bettinger, } 1
Vtrfiu > I
Samuel Cunningham. J e
In this cafe the proof of service of notice be- ]
ing inefficient, Itisordered that notice begiv- f
tn in one of the Philadelphia and York newfpa- ,
pers weekly, for at leift eight weeks to the
heirs or assignees of Samuel Cunningham de
ceased, to atftend the board on the firft Monday
in November next, to shew caul'e why a patent
fcould net iflue to Nicholas Bettinger for the
land in question. \ ■ ■ i
IA true Copy.)
JOHN HALL,
Secretary of the Land Office.
Aug. is- *iawßw. c
1' An elegant House in Arch Street. c
TO be let and entered on immediately a large t
and elepant house at the Corner of Arch and t
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms a
and one dining room—the largest is 31 feet by
*6 —and two are so conn«£led by folding doors
as to make but bne. Also, five bed rooms, be- n
fijfes sin the garret, well ftsifhed for fervsnts. e
There are stables and a coach house, with evry a
convenience for a family. Enquire at No. 29, f
in North Seventh street, or at No. 218, Arch j(
Street; a
Aug. 15.
FOR SALE, v «
BRETAONES In cases n
German Cheeksin do. It
Cambtjf k , b
Plattillas _
Oznabrige
.Cold and silver Watches
Window Glass 10 by 8
Glass Tumblcrsin cases C
Linseed Oil in casks, Ac. See. r
George Penned,
103, High-SireX. -I
Jnly J. 3 aw
t. n
Window Glass,
Superior Qumlity, and cheaper than any othei (n
the City— ei
OF VARIOUS SIZES, ti
From Bby 6 to 19 by <4, c ]
Dy the single Box or tjuami'.y, may be bad at the
Store of the Subscriber!, corner of Arch and Front-
James C. & Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia,
%\)t dsasette»
: PHI L t A DELP nIA ,
c THURSDAY EVENING, SF ptfwbfr ;8
An Ordinance authori/ing the Mayor to lor
l j row money in anticipation of the taxes of
j the present year, and for other purposes.
J WHEREAS great numbers of the in
ef. habitants of the city of Philadelphia have
e at present removed into the cuuntry, by
-! reason whereof the taxes cannot.be eolleft
r;,ed in due time, and it is neceflary that
j money (hould be immediately procured for
- : the purpose of pitching, paving, repairing,
j lighting and watching the city.
Be
it therefore ordained and enafled by
r ! the citizens of Philadelphia in feleft and
; j common councils aflembled, That the May"-
si |or of the city be and he is hereby authorised
_ and empowered to borrow, on the credit of
(1 the corporation, from either of the banks
5 in the said city, any sum or sums of money
not exceeding ten thousand dollars—one
thousand dollars whereof'fliaU be applied to
n ; the repairing of unpaved Weets, in addi
r j tion to the sum already appropriated for
j that, purpose—and the remainder of the
money so to be borrowed, is hereby appro
priated for the purpose of hiring patroles,
[ and effe&ing such* other measures as the
Mayor (hall deem neceflary for the protec
, tion of the city, during the exiftirig cala
: m ity, and in anticipation of the taxes of
the present year, towards the completion
of such objects as have been heretofore di
c rested by an ordinance, making appropria
• tions for the year one thousand seven hun
[ , dred and ninety-seven. .
, ; Enafted into an ordinance at Philadel
phia, this twenty-sixth day of Sep
j ( L,c ") tem ber, one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-seven.
; SAMUEL HODGSON,
Preft dent of Common Council.
FRANCIS GURNEY,
President of Sclcß Council.
The following is from a correspondent :
" I observe that the editor of the Aurora
is at open hostility with you. I wish that
in the paragraph wßch appears to have in
curred his wrath, you had substituted people
for ting ; for certainly no nation have been
so completely tricked out of their own (i. e.
rights) as the French."
The former is a very natural wish, and
the.latter a very just remark. But the rea
son why the one exprcflion was not adopted
rather than the other, was, on acequnt of a
belief, that the only means by which tie peo
ple could again, in any degree, be restored
to their own, is through the medium of the
restoration of the king ; and becaufc this is
believed to be the wish of nine-tenths of the
people of France, tho' prevented from being
exprefled witn its due force by the art and
villainy of the other tenth. And every
man will coincide in this opinion, who, from
having attended to the French revolution,
has seen, as every such man must have seen,
that all the leading measures of the revolu
tion, m. «11 >«« J>een efEed«4-
against the opinion of a solid majority—by
art, by chicanery, deception, and by terror.
The French have pretty plainly shewn, by
a&ual and horrible experiment, that they are
wholly unfit for, and cannot sustain, a free
government, in any tolerable degree. And
a speedy re-eflablifhment of a king, can
alone prevent the renewal of those bloody
scenes of and carnage which have
already desolated that thriving empire.
In this view every philanthropic mind mud
heartily pray for the event.
Who this king may be is a matter of
very little consequence, so that he be not a
log or a tiger ; let it be any body but the
foi-difant Louis XVIII. whose principal aim
seems always to have been to get as far as
poflible from the reach of that " villainous
thing called gunpowdet."
[Many other reflections here present
themselves : but a prefTnre of various em
barraflments prevents, at present, any further
enlargement. As the progress of things in
France will, in all probability, repeatedly
renew the fubjeft, the opportunity cannot
be considered as gone by.]
Trcnflatedfor the (N. T.J Gazette,
From a worl written by Lovis-Ab£l-Bet?-
sor-Rtiaur,called the " Te/lament of anE
leSor of Paris."
It was published immediately after the
conflict between the people of Paris and the
conventional army, on the fubjeft of forcing
the present constitution down thelthroats of
the people, notwithstanding their weighty
and just abhorrence of that part of it which
fays that two thirds of the members of the
new body shall be taken from the old butch
ering convention. Its.analogy to the char
after and views of the direC ory who is the
foul of the terrorist party, will apologize for
its translation and pnblication at the present 1
awful and interesting crisis.
"Of all the feourges, which hell has vo- j
mited on the earth, since its existence, it is
neceflary to be destitute of sense not to al- ,
low that the tuoft terrible, fatal and execra- :
ble, is the revolutionary government. It is <
precisely what the prince of latin poets ap- 1
peared to prtfage to future generations in
this celebrated verse, wkich paints in true (
colirs what is* or rather what would be the 1
revolutionary government of the French."
MoNSTRUM, HORRENDUM, INFOR ME,
'INGEVS, CUI lUMEN ADEMPTUM ! :
Monflrum. " There never was a pheno- f
menon more monstrous than this atrocious J
invention, this hideous child of frantic crime. (
It is neceflary to have seen it to have belier- ]
ed in its existence. It is not only out ef na- 1
ture and againfl nature, but it is out of the '
class of things which it is poflible for man '
to conceive out of nature and againfl na- '
ture." t
Horrcndum. " The horror which it was ,
capable of inspiring and which in eifeft it %
did infpice, was such, that we cannot think
of it without (liuddering, and Our posterity
a thousand years hence will hardly have cou
rage enough to pronounce its name. I
have seen whole families tremble as from a
violent fit of the fever and ague, shiver in
all their fall into convulsive motions,
■ iven when talked of before them. If it nfi s
pofllble to aflemble in one single frame, eve
ry horrible thing that the 1 world has pro
duced since its creation, this chief-d'cetivre
■ ugliness and deformity would be less
(hocking than the single idea of the revolu
■ .tiopary government. It alone has made more
enemies, irrec#ncileable enemies to
than every thing that could otherwise have
> been deviled to hasten her deftrudliou." »
Informc. " All that the perversity, de
pravity, and pride of the wicked could invent
of what was absurd, ridiculous, udforme'd,
extravagant, flioicking, revolting, that
the jmnlenfe Aore4ioufe of human follies
could offer of inconceivable atrocity in silli
ness, in extravagance and ih stupidity, it* far
from coming up to the revolutionary govern
ment. For who government, fays abftnee
of revolution ; and he who fays revolutionary
government, fays trfyfraaion of every kind of
government, and fays even much more ; /or
it fignifies, in ever)' sense of the words, the
organization of disorganization, the systema
tizing coldly all foi« of crimes, and draw
ing up a plan of chaos. It is the-ne plus
ultra of folly, ignorance, and ferocity ; and
heaven no doubt has been willing to fee how
far human natnre could bear away the palm
of infamous-cruelty over the infernal spirits."
[tfgens. "It was a coloiTus of deformity,
an enormous mass of absurdities and abomi
nations of every kind, an ( immense pyramid
ofxrimes of evfry fpecies,of which the regis
ters of hell could not contain the simple
nomenclature. This dreadful colossus ap
peared to have one foot on one hemisphere
of the globe and one foot on the other;
like the famous coloflus of the island of,
Rhodes, between whose legs pasTed ships of
the line. It extended, its rapacious hands
to every thing it fofye&ed to be hofleft and
virtuous u rider heaven ; its steeled claws
would plunge themfelves|into every thing }
stab, as we may fay, the two worlds to des
troy them at the fame time. Its open
mouth threatened to swallow the univcrfe ;
and its empoisoned breath vomited a deadly
plague over all the furface of France. It
was a ghastly horrid wolf, whof« ferocity
would not have spared any living bein-", if
heaven, touched with companion for poor
fuffenng humanity had not finally fupprefTed
the violence of his rage."
Cut lumen ademptum. "In effeft, the in
stant that xhe revolutionary government took
existence in France, was the epoch the most
dark of our history; the fun enlivens no
more the territory of France, but with a
brightness fictitious and precarious. The
father of light appears to bury himfelf with
us in an eternal night; or rather, be concen
trates himfelf in the sphere of his immortal
rays, and hides himfelf from us, the better
to isolate as from-all natures works. All
the splendor, all the brilliancy of the universe
was taruifhed ; every thing died with the
reaftnr of m«« t <*ci-f thing difapp«ared
with bis happiness ; all was destroyed ; the
most noble portion of humanity perished ;
and'the foul, which ennobled our existence
plunge'd itfelf in the fight of its nothingness.
He who created the revolutionary government
'acquires imprescriptible right* to the exe
cration of his cotemporaries, to the sovereign
contempt of posterity and to the never-end
ing punishments of eternity. Sis name
(hall be consigned to the bloody and livid
history of barbarity. This monster, the
day of his creation said to the French na
tion,
" Frenchmen, to prove to you how much
I despise you, and to. give to you an idea of
the pleasure I feel in humiliating and vex
ing you, I am going to command anarchy
in the name of the law, folly in the name
ofreafon, atheism in the name of God »and
you will obey! You will applaud «hc !"
" Every thing I hive said as the revolu
tionary government I have thought and still
think ; I have felt and still feel. But, how
ever energetic my manner of exprefiing my
fclf may appear to you, it falls short of the
reality ißafmßch as the reptile is below the
eagle ; and when I shall be in pofTefljon of
Pandora's box, should I open and exhaust
it, there would not go out of it a monster
more hideous and infamous than the revolu
tionary government."
RfMARKS.
Such are the monsters and such the order of
of tiling* which our American diforganizers
still continue to idolize, notwithstanding the
flood of truth that is daily pouring from the
peiw of elegant French writers on the Crimes
of the Jacobins. They are unwilling that the
truth ihould appear, and stigmatize as Royalists
all the humane men who feel an abhsrrence at
the enormities committed during the revolution.
Not a writer in France on thecondu& of their
Jacobins but fays, he wants words to
the feelings of hoirorand indignation which a
recoiled icnjof their butcheries excites. Of
twenty papers printed daily in Paris, only two
or three take part with the Directory and the
Jacobinic members of the Councils, all the reft,
to the number of seventeen or eighteen are on
the fide of the great body of the people who
deleft anarchy and its abettors, and wifli for
nothing so m»ch as peace, order and good gov
ernment■ As a proof of the final] number of
prints wh'ch favor Jacobinism, we shall
adduce the authority of the patriotic Bathe,
Freneau and Co.*whofe papers fay "that of all
the prints we have quoted, his (Louvet's) is
the only one decidedly on the Republican, or
what is termed the Jac(4»in fide of thequeftion."
Yetftrange otclf! ihefe conjiftmt gentlemen ,
after the candid acknowledgment above quoted, .
fay, that the faflion in this country are ransack
ing the French Royalist publications, wfcich fay
they, are few in number, to bluft the charafter '
of (he whole Kevolotian, and fligmatiie ihe '
French as naturally cruel or malicious.—Of a I
number of pamphlets written in France on the /
Revolution now in my poffeffian, there is not ,
one but exprefles in language of manly indigna- ,
tion the horrid crimes of the Revolutionary Co- ■
•vernment. Tl*t the Ar.tifederal Jacobins a- 1
rr.ong us should wish to throw a veil ®ver the j
mortalities committed in France during thei-Re- '
volution is not surprising, wh« we cuaCder. t
l their attachment to ev.-ry fpe.-ies if Revolution
r in Govern writ, which is never made araonj; a
_ people like the Am*ric»ns, bnr' at :h.e ex
r pence of industry, morality, and every facial
virtue. 1
1 Whit man who has the smallest claim to vir
) tue and philanthropy, but mull dread the tnift
, distant attempt at innovation in in efta'nllfhed
s order of things, efpeehl'.y i* a country like
1 this, where as much freednfo is enjoyed as ii
compatible with the object of mankind in the for
mation of government ? What a fouice of pleas
• ing_ gratification Hoes the purt patriotic hofom
! derive from a view of the great and f^dden
■ change wrought in the minds of the gr»at body
; of the peopk of the United States, from the
, depredations and ins ilts coinmittedhy the French
. nations on the perl'ons and property of our fei
low-citizens ? What an heart cheering convic
tion does it not excite of independence of
the hulk of our countrymen to foreign influence,'
; whether British or French ? When the Britilh
, I were committing outrages on our persons and
i property, how did the bo'oin of nine-tenths of
, J the people of tWis country beat with manly in
.; dignation at their
are doing the fame (although more unprovok-d)
j the fame general sentiment of execration against
■ i them animates our viktucus patriotic fel
' ! low-citizens. Hide your heads ye tools of far
r eign intrigue and faiflinn, whether British o r
<" French, the people of America are too wife to
. be the dupes, too good to be participators in
, yqur wicked schemes against their country :
They are determined to be independent, to feel
sand I hope, soon to chastize) injuries and in
■ fults offered to their ellow-citizens, whetjierby
Englishmen or Frenchmen Although there
are friends among us, blindh- attached to for
eign influence, still the great mats of the p-ople
"of these states have giver, a clfar proof of their
wisdom, humanity and patriotism, in their de
cided detestation of the views dilplayed ky the
two great powers of Europe, in their unjust
conduft towards each other, and towards {his
country, un-.ler diametrically oppoiite cirenm
ftances. When a powerful combination existed
against Franqe, and she wis likely to become a
prey to her ambitious and powerful enemies,
how did the citizensof America in general fym
patbizein her situation, and feel with transport
. every viflory ohtaired by Frenchmen ? Now
, that France is become the opprefiing and not
the oppreflcd nation, how different are our feel
ings—they are totally changed with the change
of circumfUnces in rerpe/t to the contending
powerj. We have by the w:r in Europe, and
theoppofite situations into which the belligerent
powers have been thrown, learnt the infiruflive
lefTen of the danger to which.we are exposed
from a definition of the balance of power a
broad. Let us profit by,our dear bought expe
rience, and not ttuft to the insidious profeffions
of friendfhip proffer; d us by any European
p»wer whatever ; let ui choose good, quiet,
impartial, honest men administer our na
tional concerns, and trusting with generous con
fidence to their patriotism we shall
ever be happy, united and free.
From the NEW-TORK GAZETTE, tic.
Meflrs. M'Lean & La'{ig.
Gentlemen,
WHEN a single error in private life is
brought forward by the malignant spirit of
faftion, to tarnilh the charafter and disturb
the peace of the most virtuous patriots A
merica has to boast of, every sensible, deli
cate and liberal mfod is wounded, and im
mediately becomes interested to relcue merit
from the fangs of its merciless, unfeeling
opprefTors. The mingled emotions of pity
and indignation fertcd my mind <jn reading
the defence of Col. Hamilton ; pity at the
weakness of human nature, which in this
refpeft is so conspicuous in that otherwise
great personage for writing the defence ;
indignation at the pitiful—malevolence of
Mr. Monroe who drove him to it, by cru
clljj refilling him a certificate to do away an
atrocious calumny preferred against him by
the infamous author of " the history of
the United States for the year 1796," con
tained in No. 5 and 6, whose envenomed
pen is dipped in the gall of a party, un
friendly to the firft and best chara£er» a
mony us, to our excellent constitution and
its Supporters, and even to our national
honor and interest, when opposed 10 the
present unprincipled rulers of a foreign na
tion who caress with one hand and (lab
with the other. Every generous and can
did mind must feel hurt at the cruel attempts
of Col. Hamilton's political enemies, to
wound his charafter and peace of mind by
daily alledging against him, at a palpable
proof of general moral depravity, a single
circumstance of an amorous nature, wtieh
I do not pretend to jtiftify, but which his
candid though I think imprudent and unne
ceflary confefiion fufficiently attones for.
That mind must have a small portion of
the divine spirit, and be totally destitute of
the god-like attribute of mercy, who, know
ing the frailty attached to humanity, espe
cially in what relates to the operations of the
JleJh, cruelly and unmercifully Condemns to
perdition and infamy a fellow creature, who
has ten thousand substantial virtues to set
against one single transgression, and who,
moreover, has atoned for it by a candid
confeflion of his guilt. When we take a
view of Col. Hamilton's public and private
charter, on a general, liberal, and unpre
judiced scale, what a source of admiration
does it not raise ? what a claim to public
esteem and gratitude does it not demand ?
Unlike his political enemies he is and ever
has been aftively laborious, (to the injury
of his health and private interest) in the
prosecution of meaftires for the honor and
advantage of his country—how many fa
tiguing days and restless nights has he spent
in devising plans and.promoting schemes for
the public benefit ? When very young he
took an early, decided, and uniform part
in the glorious revolution which secured our
independence ; in th<* attainment of that
objeft he was always unfriendly to any fa
crificeß not immediately cffential to securing
the great objedt in view—well knowing,
that to make Independence and Liberty belov
ed by enemies as well as friends, it ivas ne
cejfary to mahe them amiulle, and to divejl
them of all malevolent, sanguinary and revenge- <
ful attributes. When peace was the reward
of a seven years struggle for independence,
what an efFeft had his writings and condu&
in allaying the angry paflions of the zealous
partizans of the revolution,'by recommend- i
tng to them a generous oblivion and forgive- 1
ness of the errors and blindness of those
' who adhrrfd to the fid;.of £, ; «l : > -£h<;
' fame, god-like principle" is uo\v aftifaiTßg
, the people of France, aj appears by the
late proceedings of their true reprefenta
tiyes —the legidative body. What were
his unremitted exertions to draw our coun
try out of chaos and rr.ifcry, by unceasingly
a (lifting in the eftablifhhient of our preftnt
admirable con'ftitution ? How many labori
ous days must he have spent in arranging
the chaotic mass of public debts, and giving
our finance and money operations that sys
tematic and beautiful appearance they at
present poflefs I What a multiplicity of
disorganized objefts came, within the duties
of that important office which he so honora
bly filled, and to which he was Appointed
by one of the best men on earth, from the
high sense he. entertained of his ftrift and
delicate integrity > What has been his con-*
dudt in that dignified and truft-,worthy fta- ,
tion ? Above the fordid considerations of
felf-intereft, his nofcje and difintereftcd foul
was too elevated to avaifitfelf of even those
advantages*" of fpeeulation, which he in
common with others might have enriched
himfelf from, and which hij previous know
ledge of, fully enabled him to accompliflv
\v hat embarrafTments was he not frequently
put to for want of money, although Secre
tary of the Treasury ? How different this
from the condud of Citizen Monroe's dear
and particular friends Delacroix, Truguet,
and Co. !
To delineate the charafter of colonel Ha
milton in private life, to enumerate jhe'ma
ny and great instances of his integrity, hu
manity, and generofny, would, my candid
ellow-citizens, be telling you what you all
know, what you have heard daily for many
years, what numbers of you have experi
enced, and gratefully acknowledge. How
has candor, probity, and industry, uniformlv
marked his profeffional character ?—What
gentleman of the bar in this city, has given
filch general fatisfaftion '—Shall we, people;
of America, (to whom colonel Hamilton
has rendered so many invaluable services)
fufler owr veneration and esteem for hirjj, to
be dnraniflied for one error in his private life?
Shall we, by joiningor even listening to the
tales of his inveterate alfaflin-like revilcrs,
who are to a man the enemies of order, and
the greater part of them the apostles of vice
and villainy, gratify their malevolent and
wicked designs of ruining the reputation and
peace of the Ariftides of America ? No,
■1 enlightened countrymen,'ye are too liber!
•|l7 geneious and just, not to look down
with contempt and indignation 6n the par
tisans of a disorganizing unprincipled fac
tion, in their dark fiend-like attempts to
lefTon, in your esteem, the man, of whose
talents, probity, and reputation, they most
itand in awe. The religion of the friend*
«nd idohzers of Frenchmen offended at an
amour. !—The chajlity of the friend of
ras, Mrs. I allien and Co. wounded at an
intrigue! The morality of the blind de
votees to France, that land of dcbaucherv,
immorality and intrigue, and where lewdnefs
hcenfed and unrivalled reigns, stabbed to the
quick at the carnal connexion with a woman,
the fences of Vvhofe virtue were,
already brdken down. ! The acute sensibility
and delicacy of Gallic Americans put to the
torture, at an affair of this kind, when the
chajle virtuous rulers of republican France
feel a pride in lading Mjjfh diamonds and
brocades their kept miftrefiVs, whom they
accompany to every place of public refWt,
where they attraft the notice, and command
the admiration and attentions of all present 1
What an ufurpatl'on of the holy right of cen
sure !—What a perversion of justice 1 when
uncandid malignant vice, forcing itfelf into
the judgment-ieat of virtue, pronounces its
decrees with partiality, fury and injustice,
condemning as a vice in one country, what
they approve as a virtue in another—Horrid
profanation of every thing sacred.
It is notorious that citizen Monroe and
his partisans entertain and cherish a flrong
attachment, and even adoration for many of
the present rulers of France, whose lewdnefs
is proverbial. I hen why, good citizen Mon
roe, force colonel Hamilton publicly to con
fefs his amour with Mrs. Reynolds, by re
fufing to give him a certificate to exculpat*
himfelf from a charge of a more fcrious na
ture, intimately aumcded with the amour ?
Would you, virtuous citizen Monroe, cher
ami of the Barras, have been as anx*
ious for the publicity of an amour in France?
No, my pure democratic citiaen, you would
not 7°" know you would have been laugh
ed at, and if brought as a crime against your
political enemy, you would be despised as a
rancorous malevolent fool, if not pitied as a
madman. Then why, ye dilbrgaaizers, will
you bring forward, as a crime, in America,
what you countenance and advocate in
I ranee ? Ihe reafjn is, because your morali
ty is local. I hope the citizens of the Uni
ted States will scowl an eye indignant at
your base attempts to blast the chara&er of
one of our greatest and most worthy men,
and that no American of a liberal and h.u
mane mind will patiently hear our most
triad and adive patriots publicly abused for
frailties which the best men in the world may
sometimes be ensnared into by the wiles of
■craft and villainy.
But, I have, in this publication, attached
too much importance to your vile attempts
to injure your great political Opponent bv
fenouOy I'efenting or refuting you*" vile in
sinuations and abuse of him—The best ivav,
and the only one which I (hall hereafter a-,
dopt, and would advise every one tp make
Hie of, who is so fortunate as to be placed
in a iituation to hear thu great crime alledged
against colonel Hamilton, by the admirers of .
French morals—is, sarcastically to obfe.n e,
" Upon my word, the colsnel has > re of
the Frenchman in him. than, before the clif
clofure of this amour-business, 1 had-any
idea of—although he. has not'yet proved
himfelf a modern democratic with
refpeft to money-matter* ; and of course,
not fit to be put on a footing with the Del-,
croixs, theTruguets, arikl many otherhontjt
tdoiS of our American-Jacobins'."
PATRIOTICUS,✓ "*■ - .
By this clay's MaiL
BOSTON, September 23.
THE COKSTITUTION.
e this day were in hopes to have announ
ced to the public the launch of the frigate
Constitution : but after two attempts to set
her afloat, foe remains in perfeft fafety, on
the ways where (he was conftrufted.
» ever mortifying the circumstance may be to
the friends of the Constitution ; and how
ever ardent their prayers ifiight have been
for her fafe delivery into her destined ele
ment ; there cannot be the lead imputable
blame attached to the conftru&or ; or to
any, or to either of the gentlemen who
were condudtors of the operation. Every
thing that men could do, was done. Wis
dom and fcienet could not prevail, where in
evitable obftru&ionjoppofed afuperior force.
The of the Frigate
CONSTITUTION.
' If thrie tilings be r.ectjp('u), let's use them likf ne
ceflitiev' Sialjp eare,
k Disappointments arc not always to be
ranked among evils, especially when we
find that a disappointment is in the end more
beneficial than our firft wi(hes. This fenti- !
( menf is verified in the (late of the frigate, '
who'ftill remains firm in her cradle. The '
explanation of the matter will doubtless be
gratifyiag to an anxious public, who seem
to this vessel with a solicitude
1 > higbjy pleasing to the,great family of repub
lican America. The faft is this ; her con
flru&or found that the (hi? United States, |
which was launched at Philadelphia, had
too great an obliquity or dcfcent; in confe- {
quenCe (he run off her ways full an hour be
fore her con ftriiApr' intended ; which dam
aged'hfr keel and maimed several people.—
To prevent these evils, the Boftqn conftjuct
or laid the Constitution too level, and his
levelling system, or system of equality, has
produced all the inconvenience, and obstruCt
ed the punctual performance of the bufihefs.
Another reason is this, part of the ground
(he flood on, was the natural terrafirma, and
a part artificial or made ground. This
A made ground has funk by the immense
I weight of the ship ; and this finking occa
fiofted her obftm&ion yesterday. The eon
ftruftor could have forced her off, had his
pride or ambition exceeded hiu discretion . ■
k and patriotism ; but he chose to facrific'e his ;
feelings, rather than rifle the lives of. his fel
» low citizens, or the property of the public ; 1
and many thanks are due to him and Capt.
Nicholfon, for their decision. 1
To indifferent unthinking people, the dif- 1
appointment is mortifying. The Jaco- «
bins will crow, and the Chronicle, that 1
fpeakijig trumpet of the devil, will echo 1
the tale of disappointment, to ths utmost <
verge of its peftiferous influence. ]
To the gentlemen who are conversant 1
with ships, the occurrence is a consolation ; j <
they can apply the Dutch ptoverb, which c
fays—"Stay a little while that we may get 1
done thefooner." The ancient Romans con- t
centrated much wisdom in their proverb I
of " fefiine tente"—male hajle slowly. \
But what (hall we fay to tUe ladies, who r
are disappointed of the fine fight ? First, I
you mull submit to the powers above you, v
who guide and diredt all fsch weighty mat- li
ters. A remarkable interpolation has regu- v
lated every event of importance, which has p
yet affe&ed this country, and that it will I
still be the cafe is presumable in these ships, f
which are the little whet Is of an immense ti
machine. v
The Cortftellation, which is an assemblage tl
of the fixed stars, went off in spite of all a
earthly impediments, because the heavenly
bodies are placed where the art of men can- A
not reach, and where human prescience can- vi
, not controul. The United States ran ra- lc
pidly on, but withfomedamage and deftruft- c;
ion from.adverfe parties and opposing mate- b
rials ; but the Constitution formed with de- 1
liberation; coolness and extraordinary fore- (li
thought, cannot ea/ily be moved. But like in
the ark of the covenent, an emblem of some- fr
thing fapred, (he hesitates, and seems to fay, in
" conftrudted as lam with (kill, and confum- a
» mate judgment, my movements must be the ct
result" of cool, calm and deliberate judgment; tl
learn from my inanimate materials this lef
f«>n of political wisdom ; that no step is so ei
likely to be lading as that which is pursued
with deliberation ; and remember, O Ame- ra
ricans ! that in the course of your history, so
your moll violent efforts, produced but lit- pi
tie, and that your greatest glory arose out bi
of your darkest gloom and apparent disap
pointments."
FROM A CORRESPONDENT. W<
The LAUNCH, or Hints on Mechanic frc
Powers. mi
A large (hip, copper bottomed, is to be C;
'• considered as a heavy, poli(hed, copper va
wedge. The fides of this wedge, in some wl
places, form an angle of 45 degrees with a it
perpendicular line ;in others more :jn others inl
left. If that part towards the Hem or stern, an
which is 45 degrees, fettles one inch per- R.
, peendicularly, thc ways mud spread one eir
inch on one fide, or two inches in the whole, bei
The parts which form a fefs angle, press
outward with" grtater force. Braces are
bolted on the fides of a ship in launching, to th:
prevent her fettling; but it is to be.sup- ufi
posed, that by the springing of bolts, and lar
the comprefTion* of joints and blocks, (he for
will fettle one inch. Motion increases her ize
power of fettling, and the part towards the linj
stern is mod liable, as being the (harped, ing
The bilge-ways being spread, become a efH
wedge and flop the progress. The above- ove
mentionedforce hfcstwicedopped the launch- ha\
1 jng of the frigate. ous
To prevent alike disappoint men tdu ring the wh
future process, thc following hint is offered: feel
Let three or more drong chains be passed Th
under the keel at each er.d to bolts palling the
the bilge-ways, with screws and nuts on the by-,
out-tide ; the ways cannot then spread. Let [
ropes ba made fall to the ends of the bilge- zet
I ways under the stern. To these ropes al- ago
I
ioiv fuffici'-Kl length for the Hup to get Into
deep water, and maks the other end fad to
the wharf. When these ropes draw upon
the bilge-ways, the ship will Aide off
frym them, and they will float, leaving the
ship free. Ihe ways which now pinch in
11 n " tl,e cradle under the stern, may be thrown
pte- in by fcreivs, and confined from again spread
'"&» w 'thout great expence, with the affift
■oi ance of wedges under the keel, &c.
'7' r " N B " . The q uick an d unexpected motion
: to of the (hip, yederday, is fufficient proof
3W - that the ways do'not want declivity,
eeii 1
J- PROVIDENCE, September 22.
ble At a Town Council, fpeciaUy holden in ant!
to for the town of Providence, on Weduefday,
(he 201 hof September, 1797.
«7 S.TATE OF THE TSV :K IS PROVIDENCE.
From Friday, the 15th in ft. seven perfoni
ln " hate ideceafed, and eleven remain sick.
ce * Pullijhed by Order,
George Tilljnghast, C. C/l.
TE \
At a Town Council Jpecially holden in and for
ne- the town of Providence, on Friday, the 22d
of September, 1797.
te _ STATE OF THE FEVER.
we Thirteen persons are now confined with
>re i the i ellow Fever, four have been removed
iti- the hospital:—-And since the report made
te, on Wednesday the 20th inft. three persons
he only have deccafed.
be Publijhed by Order,
;m George Tillinghast, C. Cll.
de
ib- Died.] In this town, Mr. Gideon Hull,
in- Mr. Pitcher, Mr. Robert Blinn,
:s, , Mr. Wilcox, Mrs. Gifford, (wi
ad i dow of the late Mr. Jofiah Gifford) three of
re- 1 her children, and a young woman who lived
>e- in the family ; Dr. Ephraim Comftock.
11-
ALEXANDRIA, Sept. 25.
rt- In the Times of Saturday, Augufl 19,
lis 1 was the following paragraph :
as " The following was handed us for publica
jt- tion by a gentleman lately from Gsada
"s. loupe. • ;
id That one John Perry, lately from New
id London, and a certain Park Avery are
is equally concerned in fitting oyt priv.iteers
fe from several French port* in the Weft In
a- dies, to cruise for American property, and
1- j that the plunder they have obtained is (hip
is ped to the house of Elifha and William Coit,
in jof New York. Isaac Williams who is also
is as American, is captain of one of their pri
-- vateers, and had captured several Ameri
; cans."
t. On Saturday last the person of Perrv was
recognised on the wharf by several who had
f- seen him in Guadaloupe, and were well ac- ! (
)- quainted with his conduA in that place.—
it Upon information being circulated through
0 the town, a great number of the inhabitants
[I collected, and so exasperated were the, peo
ple against the conduft of an American, who
t j had joined a piratical set of robbery in plun
; dcring our citizens, that he very narrowly
h escaped receiving a coat of tar and feathers.
By the interference however, of several gen
i- tlemen, he was taken before the mayor, to
b be dealt with, agreeably to law, by the ci
vil authority. By his declaration at the ti
3 mayor's office it appeared, that he failed from f,
, New London the begining of January last, f (
, with a cargo of flock, and arrived at Guada- ti
- loupe the latter end of the fame month, 1 t<
- were he flayed 6or 7 months, and was em- f<
s ployed in the disposal of his cargo &c.— k
1 He then purchased a prize (hip and set fail rr
, for North Carolina, but was taken by a Bri- F
; tifh cruiser and carried into Antigua, from tc
whence he ttxik (hipping for Alexandria in j
; the Nancy, capt. While of this porf, and h.
1 arrived here on Friday last.
By the dispositions of captain Willis and
• Mr. Peter Murray, it was evident that his
■ vessel immediately upon her arrivalin Guada- .1 '"i
. loupe, was converted into a privateer and
■ called the Vi&oriotis, and was commanded
■ by au, American- by the name of Williams: an
That it was well known in G'uadalcupe, that tU
• (he had come from New London with guns th
in her hold for that purpose': and, that,
from the general condlxft of Perry in interdl
ing himftlfin thefales ofprizes &c.ar'd from ex
a number of other corroborating circumftari
ces, he was part owner of, and agent for,
the above privateer. «
He was committed to prifoti for further
examination.
[The time is coming when traitors, pi
rate*,' and assassins, (hall no longer !k
forth in the land, to take measure of ir j. 3 ,
purses ancl our throats. The'day of ri Al .
bution is at hand.] j ca
—— ma
BALTIMORE, September 2? ;
By Capt. Sanger, from Port-0 Psix, 1
we have been favored with a proe' ation c;ll]
from Touffaint, general in chief of the ar- i
mies of St. Domingo, to the citizens of the
Cape, soldiers of the garrisons, and cufti- 1 +
vators of the plain. The gentleman, into jT.
whose hands we put it for translation, fays, Bu
it contains nothing more than a call on the refj
inhabitants to behave themselves peaceably ma
and quietly under the laws of the virtuous thc
Raimond, and toliften not to the perfidious
emissaries of Santhonax, who haß been sent s
before the tribunal of his country.
Great hopes began to be entertained
that our city was about to be restored to its 1
usual health, and fom« who had taken the a- vvi
larm, began to thin danger over. Their the
fond hopes would probably have been real- P lic
ized, had we not been visited by a drivel- 1
ling rain on Friday, which instead of unload- t "'t
ing our atmosphere, clogged it with noxious l>y ,
effluvia, and took its direftion weftwardly S
over the town. From the town few people thc
have a»yet moved on recount of a "contagi- tu '"
ous fever ; but this week will iriform them
whether it will be prudent to flay, or to S
seek fafety by flight from their homes
The report of the health committee will be
the best and moll faithful criterion to judge
by-, and ought tp do away all other rumors. r
[This paragraph is from'the Federal Ga- 6c c
zette—the fame paper w;hich not many days
ago, branded with the epithets affajjiu and Ji
nto iifamtiu, a gentleman, /!r:ond to no one in
: to j Baltimore, for refpedlability of character
pon and all merely because he stated a simple
ott | faft, which came under his own observation :
the I viz. that on such a day, such a number of
lin people died. The conduct of these men ex
lWn ciKs emotions hard to be suppressed.l
ad-
lift- Died, on Sunday night last, Doftor Ed
ward Johnston, long an amiable and mod
ion rcfpectable inhabitant of this city. In him
oof the public have loft 'a man eminent iu his
.profeflion, and no lels fa in his charafter a3
a sincere frieiid to mankind ; I>is friends and
acquaintance* can never think of him but
7nd with the greatest refptit His remains were
iy, yesterday interred in thelmryiiiif eround of
Sr. Paul's Church.
. '» yesterday, after 3 /Jjort'Sleefc, Mr.-
ms James Asgel, ti.'ater, of, this
city His death wiflijje sincerely. regretted
by all who had the pleasure ofhi» acquaint
ance.
BOARD of HEALTH.
f or Ordered, That a lift of the burials be
2d published, from the time this inoard received
regular returns, and that the fame be .con
tinued daily,
th Burials in the wfl part of Baltimore, hert
tof ore called the town :
■ Adults. Children,
ns September 11 2 j
12 o 1
13 5 1
'4 3 o
15 * 2
"> 16 2 o
n. 171 1
18 2 ' 0
°[ - '9 ' 2 o
20 2 i
21 2 i
22 3 1
2 3 7 *
, 2 + S 2
Burials m the eajl part, c Fell's Point,
3 - (Sc. including the Field
Adults. Children.
September 11 i j t
w 12 So
" c l i J-7 o
rs H 12 o
x 5 S 1
d 16 12 j
17 , . 9 o
:* 18 3 1
0 19 5 o .
30 9 o
'■ 21 6 o ►
22 tj 1
■ 23 5 o
a 2 4 14 1
" (Signed) Jeremiah Yellott,
. James Edwards, '<
1 Adam Fonerden, <
s Emanuel Kent, 1 ]
Joseph Townfend, > (§• '
3 Elia.s Ellicott, § 1
, John Steele, 5 J
f Thopias Tenant, " '
James Beeman,
5 RICHMOND, 3qw. «». . «•* 1
We are happy in having it in bur power '
* to fa y» 'hat the person who arrived here a '
1 few days ago-from Norfolk, said tb be as- '
, fedled with the Epederriic, prevalent at this '
-• time in that unfortunate borough, appears '
. to be perfealy restored to health, and was 1
- seen in company with other gentlemen wal- l
- king our ftrects.yefterday morning ; the ru-
1 mours of his having- died of the Yellow J
I'ever at Bowler's, buried privately, &e. Arc. 1
1 to the contrary notwithstanding.- •• a
1 C-7 1 he. inhabitants of Richmond* are as
I healthy as usual at this season of the year. P
; Pe ale's iVIUSKUM. t f |
THIS valuable repository of thf work* of >!n- h
turc, so wrll cakunto! to Jclight the mliij c
| ! and enlarge the undtrHaniihgi isoplcnej diiily. as
usual. .It llar.ds in an airy zpi liealtKv futl.-.tiori, VV
and free iff,idi miiytlwt at prefent'afflias a
the c\-y ;it therefore,jhe: frequented with al
the greated fafeiy.
As an Amufonix-nt, 'the Oody r.f Nature is the
nioft rational and pk-hfing : I* a Scietrte, the mod
fukiime and ioflruAjvc. It clevatestht mind and
expands the heart* Tfacy I
" IVhtm Nature t works can (harm. tMilb God him ft If
' ■ " Hold cnti-jcrfir J
Many interring additions have lately 'been a,
made to this Muf«um : and ihc feathered tribe,
raining a variety of the mo.l rare and beautiful' m
1 )j' <3s, is now very advantajjeoufly arranged. G
Figures, of Men large as life (li>nie qf tjiem ar
s from nature) are here drefled in their proper ce
and placed in of their
refpeiSire nitions. Mere may be seen the North
j American Savage, and the iavage of South-Ameri- ar
| ca—a laboring Chinese, and the Ehincfe Gentle- ft>
■ man—the fo.ity African, and the Kanitfchadale— vi]
! with some Natives of the South Sea Islands. Th. fsj
) immenfo variety and interesting dfverfity which .1
| this Museum offers to the view, may befeen but '
cannot be described with full e/Fed. co
Seyt. »8. law M
N O T I C E. ~ ve
ALL person- indebted to the estate of r«iHN 0
Striker, late of Tinnecum T«Wnftiip, tr 1
Buck's County, are requeued to pay off their
refpeflive debts ; and those having any de- ] ia
mands againll ffiid ertate, are desired to hr.ng in
their accounts, to P r
JOSEPH Ci.iAMRER.LAW, &) Execu- P £
MALLET PiiiiVALT, ■) tors. l Y
SepK qS. • ' th
Thomas Arttjat and Sou~
OF P 111 LAh i'. LTHI A, / ,
I WORM their Aiftomers a«d the pujiiis,, tl}£j jf T
have removed a part of their mercsaiuP.zp.'-«o vir
Wilmington : Alf«l, tfiey h.rve ttieW ftori open fc 'ha
the city. At cithc-r place their friends' can bi sup. on ,
plied, and their orders carefuHy attehJed to c.
By the Cumberland, from Hull, tlley have re-'
ceived a handsome affcrtnlent of aitrcfes, fuiuble " T
to the approaching season ; and eiptA to add so it St
liy other fall (hips. w 'j
Should the ficknpfs prevail in the eestral part 6f (■],,
the city, that branch of their business will br re
moved to Gerniantpwn.
Tlip communication by pod is open and re- tn<
gular as usual, on
J'Pi-jf..; thtf eas
t . Red Port Wine. s
Just arrived, by tlie brig Iris, capt Rhoiles, froth tr )
Oporto, thl
Red Port Wine in pipes, Mills.and quarter casks fpi
6b cwt.Oirlc, for sale by - 0
Philips, Crtuhond, & Co. Iwh
J" 1 *"- - § pr<
pie %\)t
PHILADELPHIA,
THURSDAY' EVENING, September 58 .
Id- 7 " 6/6/ cf _ burials for 24 Ur/, fr
3ft </ay a/ nson.
im _
,j s Chrid Church 1 ( 0
Fiift Frtftiyterian 1 0
33 Friend,' o °
11(1 Pernnn Lu'hcrean o I
Ut Po'ter'e FiaM o t
re City Hn/pital* 7 * 0
of KenCngtonf 1 o
• TO 4
;•' * Pi'-" »f thcji from tic city ■
is -
22d ' n( * - at Clieltenham,
t- Montgomery county, Mrs. Anns CSrmick, !
of Philadelphia, in the 63d year of her age,
«fter a long and pairful fflnefs, which she
>e supported with a truly christian resignation ;
d the poor have loft a charitable friend, and
1- her children a tender and fond parent.
!- TWO CHARITY SERMONS
Will be preached on Sunday next at the
Calvmift Church, Germantown, for the re
lief of the poor and diflrejfed cilixent of Phila
uelphia ; one in the morning at 11 o'cjock
by the Rev. Dr. Blair, the other in the
afternoon, at 4 . o'clock by the Rev. Mr.
AHERCROMI;!)!.
<£/* THE MAIL for the Britiih Pac
ket clofeson Wednesday evening the fourth
of Oftober, at 6 o'clock.
Thomas Macranxess, Agent.
New-York, Sept. 27. .
.
PRICES OF STO C KS,
Philadelphia., Sth Sept. 1797/
' {
6 per Cent." l6 yg
1 per C»nt. lo y- 4
n«£erred 6 pcr Cent. t,y 4
BANK Un:ted States, ig per ct. advnnce
j 9-
North America, 46. do.
Isfurance Co. N. A (hares 4.5 to jo > do.
" ' — Pennfylvanla, par
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 3c days par
at 60 days
——— at 90 days 61
Amsterdam, per guilder v
' 1 90 days
From the NEW YORK DIARY.
Mr. Editor,
Some time since, a paragraph in the Di
ary announced, that a gentleman had, the
evening before, seen a comet in nearly the
wcftern direftion. In coofequence of this 1
information, the philosophers of our city '
were put on the watch to fee such a rare '
phenomenon. Investigations took place,' '
and the starry element was invaded with all
the telescopes that were to be had ; when, .
behold ! our comet proved to be the beau- '
tiful evening planet—Venus. The watch
still continuing, it was at length announced,
that the fcomet bad really appeared in the
south east quarter ;'an investigation, as be
fore, took place ; and, as before,
proved to be the brilliant planet*—Jupiter ;
but the inveftigatots were much more gra- I
tified in viewing this planet, because they
saw witoitt its vicinity, the satellites, or a
Jupiter's moons; and, rtta the furfaee of 1
the noble planet, Jupiter's belts. It is said !j*
alio, that the comet has been seen at Cam- J?
bridge, Baltimore, and Newhaveli; but I ap- .
prehend that it is the fame that has appeared
in our city, for it is strange that none of the
fpe&ators have announcedthrft theyhavefeen •
the tail. I assure you, lir, that I keep a good R
look ont for the Comet, with good teles- ,
copes—and whenever any appears, I (ball 1
with the greatest pleasure, announce it to
my fellow citizens, and invite them to come
at- the top of tHe Museum, and view it thro' .
my excellent telescope. G. BAKER.
Sept. 25. ' . - 11
r.i
WOBURN-ABBEY SHEEP SHEARING.
te
On Monday, the 12th inft, his Grace
the Duke of Bedford's (heep-fhearing com- I"
menced, to which all the capital Farmers, 0
Graziers, and Agriculturists were invited, ar
and his exhibition or (hew of his new Lei-
cefterlhire breed of (heep. The company
present were Messrs. Coxe, Colhoun, Bevan, 0
and many other Gentlemen andtreeders of _
(heep at Norfolk and Suffolk : Lord Somer- '
villi;, Sir John Ramfde'n, Mr. Bennett, Mr. lC
Northey, Mr. Lee Antonie, and many gen- e
tlemen breeders of (heep from the different
countries in England—Mr. Arthur Young, an
Mr. Marshall, Mr. Stone his Grace's fur- m '
veyor,) and the principal breeders of (heep ' )e
of Btdfordfhive and the-neighbouring couu
tfies.. ( a
Notwithftandirig the short time his Grace
has turned his thoughts to this fpeeiee of im
provement, it is afloniftiing to hud tx> what nl(
perfection "he hascarried thebreedofthis tru- >p]
ly valuable animal,fcarcelytp beexceeded by 1
the Ltictfterfhire Society.
The meetitig lasted Feveral days, dining ] UI
which time the ancient English hospitality j n
prevailed in all it 3 glory. Dinner was pro- an
vided and served up each day, in the great v - t
liall, at three o'clock; and there way not c },
one word of politics. His Grace and Mr. nv
Stone, his deputy, preiided : his Grace en- w ;
livened the upper part of the table,.and Mr. e ;r
Stone did his iltmoft at the other end. Not
withftauding the (hort time (which is only
three or four years) his Grace has paid at- (
terition to the breed of (heep, his bailiff let
the use or some of his (hearing rams (i. e.
one year one Jeafou, for fifty guin
eas each.
It is aftoniihing the advantage the coun
try might derive in its improvement, from
thus bringing together fcientific and public „
spirited men from different parts of England fo r
to converse frfely on the different topics
which relate toi rtie promoting the uttnoft
produce fnfm the eaith. [Land. Pay.
B» CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
Fr.rm the 27th to 28th Sept. in themominr.
Admitted, firice last repoi't,
Neal Cillafpie—Miehael.Quigky's, Love 1.
Frederick Dunifter—Front, 3 doors from
1 corner of'Southsitreet .
Ann To\ytifenSou th- ft rect.
fr - Discharged,- .linee last report;
Zabet-te— admitted 15th inft.
Peggy Lec i 4 th
Polly Varnel sth •
j Died since last report.
when admitted howlon g flc^-
4 vioustoadmiilioru
i-liz. Dickey, i 4 tli. , unknown,
i Francis Ward, 25th. 1 day.
j Cannon MafFey, 24th. 4 days.
Peter Polilion, 24th. 2 days.
Win. Charles, 26th. 14 days.'
n > : Remaining last Report 6j
| Admitted fmce, 3
I S" s ' d | __ 1
Remain inHofpital, j s g
c Four of whom are dangerouj.'
Interred in City Hospital burying ground
j" iince last report :—• }
' From the city and suburbs 5
6 the city hospital 5
( Tota] 10
Stephen Giuard,
(Signed) Calbb Lownes,
Johw Connelly.
Publilhed by order of the Board,
Wm. MONTGOMERY,
.Chairman pro tem.
gazette marine list.
Port of Philadblphta.
a RK I y ED. DAY«»
Ship John Bulkeley, Volans, Isle of May 43
Schr. Flying Fifti, v Maxwell, Jamaica 32
Arrived at the Fort.
Ship Amity, Cook, C. N. Mole—all well.
New-York, September 27.
The (hip Matilda, Tombs, in 8 days
from Charleston—and the brig Columbus,
in 67 days from St. Übes, arrived yclterday.***
Providence, September 22.
_ • AkßirtD. From
Sloop Sally, Anthony, Philadelphia
Warwick; Davis, Lewiftown
Hiram, Earle, Charleston
Union, Bofworth, do.
Sally, Hammett, Tobago
. Ship Providence, Coles, Isle of France.
: On Wediefday, "ail week) arfived the
j (hip Charleston, capt. Manchester, from Lif
. bori—and on Thursday, the brig Murfree,
. capt. John Green, from the fame place.
CHARLESTON, September 12.
Extraft of a letter from a gentlemart in Phi
ladelphia, to his friend in this eity, dated
August 28, 1797.
, " The alarm (on account of the fever)
ha« been so great, that every body that can
move are gone or going. The proclamation
ha» frightened the people more than the fe
ver ; the fear of the husband being,parted
frr m the wife ; the wife from the husband ;
apd children from their parents, has had a
terrible effeft on the minds of the people ;
and some extraordinary cruel scenes liavs
been already afted ; and the terror of the
fight «f the yellow flag, I hare heard, has
been the cause of some deaths.
" You know my fentimeots of Rush's
fyfttm, and I fee no reason to alter that o
pinion : it rather strikes me more forcibly,
that it is a deftnudive mode of proceeding ;
that it may be compared to a lamp, where
all the oil is drawn off, it bums feebly, and
just before dying, it blazes up. Such has
been the cafe in several instances, now and
in 1793, when we heard the patient was get
ting- well, and sometimes out of danger, the
next report was that they were dead !
" I have not heard how the fever was yes
terday or this morning, but the increase of
deaths and new cases on Saturday was eon
fiderable. The streets are becoming lone
some by the prodigious numbers removing,
and however ridiculous the cause of flight,
yet with the distress which will be brought
on many, it will be the meaßj, perhaps, <of
sooner flopping the infeftion.
Thursday afternoon, the father fearful of
fending for a physician, Jeaft his boy should
be taken and fenb to the hospital, prffcri
bed himfelf, firft, some lemonade, a cooler,
and a warm bath that evening, the next
morning a little cooler, in the evening re
peated : Saturday, he got well and a(ked
for vi&uals ; some sorrel broth was taken
(a fort of sorrel fold in our market, boiled
in water, with a little butter, and foma
bread crumbled in it.) Mr. C. tells me that
ke believes if he had sent for one of the A
merican doftors, his son would have died. '
The outset was a high fever, pain in his
back, head ach and delirium.
" Our situation is fine, and I give the Co
lumbo bkters to all the family. We bathe -
in cold water every day, I mean the children- ■
and myfei' ; when any of us are goingont
we eat garJic, and shall depend upon the rr n
chins to >apen and cleanse the bowels, if z
ny complaints arise ; and we have no fear
with these means to keep it off, and even to
effefta ciite, without the aid of phyfieians."
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufactured as uJual,
Ginger and Pepper pround
Shelled or Pearl Bariev
Philadelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cvcfir
London Porter
Taunton and Burton AI9
Red Tort and other Wines, elthe bottled,
or by the pipe, quar'ter-caft or gallon—fiiuiVi#
for exportation or heme consumption
For Sale by
John Haiuorth.
Np.9Sftf'jth Front fire*?I mpM terf 1 ntlifi sKi p M a n c H EST e R i
Benjamin Shewell, Master, & „
prom Bourtieaux, and for sale 'oy the lublcriber,
No. 11 Walnut Street'. _
Bonrdeaux Brandy ~1
trifh market claret in cases Entitled to -pj
Mtdoc wine, in do. ( Drawback. j
Sauterne, do. do. J t j?' er '
Thomas Murgatreyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE. Thai
Sherry Wine ?n pipes and quarter calks ' ftie%
Rota do. J° :
Pimento in
4000 bushels Ijiverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tatScstf.
.J —r- —■ Ll
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder, at the houl'c of Mr.
' William Evans, the lign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, oil the 25th
clay ef Goober next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
Ab'*ut seven thousand acres ot land,
the property o£ William Bell, of Philadelphia,
Krri" between Reifter's-town and VVeltminftcr,
'commonly called Little Wincheftcr, (the turn
pike roajl runs through a conlidsr»b!e part ot
llufe lanf!s) the tracf begins about 17 miles
from Baltirnorr, within a t*w hundred yards
of fa id ReiUer's-town, and extends to the dif-
tance of about twenty-three milts from Balti
more, andMloj on the main tails of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will j >
he fold in tr.-.ifs of one hundred and fifty to;
three hundretr Icre. There is a large propor
iloaof rincadow and wood land on each
loine of them highly improved, with exceflent
buildings and fine gr:fs.
At so
A traft of seven hundred acres of
Lind, cal'.ed Clover Farms! within Gve miles of T y~
liladenfourg, esteemed very good for Grass, kn,
Richard Ponfonby,of Bladenlborgh, will (hew bos
this land to any person inclined to purchase. , do\
ALSO, j lat<
A traft of land ©f about three hun- j
dred and thirty a<h es, within about two miles g o(
and a half o> the President's house in the l'ede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
hiph psofpe<S, from which may be fce» the
city of l \Yalhingtcn, Bladenlburgh, Alexaitfl. ia
ar.d a part of George-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Por.fon
by, of Bladenlburg, will alio (hew this land. Nc
A liberal credit will be given for the greatest -jr
part of the purchase money, ihe terms will £
ue made known on the day ef sale. tio
May 8 w ' m & P
__ — ; dy
Just Received. " e
From Bata-via (via Providence) to
a few Box<sof Spices, conliltir-g of
Nutmegs. Cloves and Mace lo
For sale by P l
WILLINGS & FRANCIS,
Pcnn street. I' l
dtf p
Davis's Law J3ook Store,
No. 319, High-Street. p.
GEORGE DAVIS, «
BEING bulled for fomt time past in prepara
tions for removing into hisprjfent hoUse, has
been under poftponingutitil thlsday E
informing tljegentlemen oithe Ear generally thro
the United States, that his spring importation of n
law booksisnow arranged and ready for lale, 011
frmsthat he trusts will tntitlehim to the like pre-
freence he has experienced for leveral years pad.
Catalogues, combining the most varied collee
tioii ever imported i.ito country, are printed
and will be dclivcr.-d on application.
June 37. 6w
City CommiJJioncrs' Office, 1
June 21, 1797- \
IN purfuaiKe of an ordinance from the feleit
and common councils, palled the aad day ot
May lalt, appointing the city c«rimiflioncfa,
and orefcribing their duties, fedtion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five dittriftj,
each to be under tbe fuperintendance of one of
the city commiflioners, whoisto be individually
reiponfible for the cleanliness of the fame, and
are a 1 follow.
Driftri£l No. I. From'the south fide of Ce- I
dar-ftreet, to the north fide ofSpruce-ftreetjUn
d e rthe superintendence of Nathan Boys.
2. From tbe north fide of Spruce-street, to
the north fide of Walnut-street,"under the super
intendence of Hugh Roberts.
5. From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide of High-flreet, under the superintendence ot
joseph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-fireat, to the
north fidi* of Mulbe'ry street, under the super
intendence of William Moulder.
5 . From the north fide of Mulberry-street to
the north fide of Vine-street, under the super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaningof High-street to be in common.
0- A dated meeting of the city commiflion
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock
July 'a- eolm
Staiids for Draymen, SsV.
In purfuanet of an Ordinance from theSeleft and
Common Coitnc.lj,bearing date the nd day of
ylhril, 1797; providing for the appointment of
City Corflmijftoners, 3c. ieft- the Istb.
nj ''HE following places are fixed upon by the
i laid City Commifiioners for Stands for
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-llreet, eastward of Front-ltreet, on
both fides.
Saflafras, Iligh.Chefnut and AValnut-fttreets,
eaftvyard ot Front-ilreet, on the no/th fide only.
. Mulbcrry-llreet, south fide from Front to
Third-ftrett. .. „ '
Front-llre«, east fide from Vine-street to
Elrrith's alley- .
Front-street, from opposite to Black liorle al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide. •
Wifter-ftreet, weft fide frpm the nortn end of
stopper's or Moore's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Cedar-ltreet, weft
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Frnnt-ftreet.
Spruce, Pine and South streets, east ot treat
street, south I'de.
Dock-street, between Walnut-street and the
.flag ftpne croffifigs, east fide, opposite George
Second-ftreet, between SalTafras and Vine
ftr Fifth-ftrelt f feaft fide from Chefnut to Mul-
from Third to Fourth-street,
eal No dray or horse to stand within ten feet of
'"ItTnPS FOR HACKNEr COACHES
pine-street, north fide from Fourth to Titth
ft[, "if'h*ftrcet, between Chtfnut and Walnut
ftr ßr4nch street, north Ode, betw«n Third and
Fourth street,. flm
July 14-
A Literary Treat. C
JuJi pulli/hcd, htindfomily print) J on writing
paper, price I (lollar,
V new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, sntitlcd
"piiE FORESTERS, an American Tale ; being ?or
1. u fequcl to the hiliory of John Bull, the Clo- Ar
thier—ln aferie?of letters to a friend, with the ad- & cai
dition (Of tn o letters, alluding to reccllt political
tranfaclions in America.
Thu following extract from the Clavis Allegories,
shews the principal characters that arc introduced:
Johij Bull, the Kingdom of England
His Mother, the Church of England
His Wife, the Parliament
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis, the K ngdom of France
RisMiftrefs, the Old Constitution
His h w Wife, the National Rcprefentation 1
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain -4'
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic , ' Ol
The prattles, the French Republic 1 5
The Ferefters, the United States of Amerita
Robert Lumber, Nevv-Hamplhire
John Codline, MalTachufctts 3 .I>*
Humphrey Plowlhare, Connecticut ——
Roger Carrier, Rhode,lfland *iC>(»
Peter Bull Frog, New-York —-
Julius Caifar, New-Jersey N.
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania -tity i
Caflimar, Delaware the i
■ Walter Pipewood, Virginia > but <
His Grandson, George Walhington At
Peter Pitch, North Carolina motv
Charles Indigo, South Carolina be r<
George Trusty, Georgia ets.
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont T1
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky thep
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves Wail
Rats, Speculators lcle>!
r Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins , l'qua
This popular and entertainingfatiricalhifto- two
ry of Amatica is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel- fible
. knap. It has a great lhare of originality and a- w he
' bounds with genuine humour. It is continued thei
! down to the present time, and chara&erifis those Loti
! late political tranfaftions which hav< caused so he r
much uneasiness in America. Wig,
" 1 Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16, the
s South Sacond, Street, and No. 50, Marine* ftaeet. bee
"i June 16. § 1
e 1 : Pri:
I LAW BOOKS, «»
s Latell London and Dublirt Editions.
H. gjf P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street, hia
1| XT AVE just received by the hte arrivals Irom Gil
II Jl JL Loarton and Dublin, their spring importa- and
tioa, confiding of a variety of the latest and moflf
approved l.awßooks, which,added-to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the most extenlive colle&ion ev
er offered for fa'c in this country. 1 he.y theiefore
beg leave to that from the nature of their
tonnetftiensin Dublin, they are enabled to fell Irish V
. editions (as they have hitherto dont*) at thc«very fel
Lowell prices. The following are among the latclt of
publications. (
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, a v;.«. trs
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prras ; Ridgeway's Reports to
in the time of Lord Hardwicku ; Floyer's Procters It
_ Pra6tice in the Ecciefiaftical Courts; Bartdn's be
Treatifs on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Pra&icc of dr
the Court of King's Bench in Personal Actions, a so
parts complete; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise m
oil Ufesj modern Reports, 11 vols. London edi- C<
tion. ft
H. and P. Ric 1 expeft t» receive by the firtl ar- fu
108 rival from New-Y«rk the 6th vol. complete of bi
iy , Durnford and East's Reports, the id part of Gil- di
° f bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of as
0 new publication!.
" JU " e ft
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD, a
IS now in the prefi, afii! will be publiihed,
with all convenient expedition, by Zecha- c
kiah Paulson, jun. No. go, Chelnut-ftreet, "
Philadelphia, where fubferiptious will continue 1
■ to be received, ami at the Philadelphia Library, P
according to the printed propcfals, until the J
1 work is ready for the fubferibtrs. a
rs> July 18- " wtf a
Printed Calicoes. ,
1
of JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co. <
,lly No. t Cbefnut-Street,
ind Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly aborted, very low on ;
De- Ihort credit. (
un- March 6. §
t0 Richard and James Potter
,er- HAVF. removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftrcet.
uth ,1 rtuguft 1. w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijburgh Carli/le,
the Shtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
' to 1
fer- r T"'HE public are requested to take notice, that
X the partnerlhip which has far some time fub
,on. fift'd betweon Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
10 n- William Geer, is now diifolved . but, not as M.
iuh- Slough insinuates to the public without just canfe ;
as will more fully appear by a letter 011 the fub
n jest from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necelfary. Any gentleman who wiftes to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applyuig to W. Geer may have
y °J the perusal ef M. Slough's letter, and then can be
'* °f at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
' Geer is not perfectly juftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
for 'ltage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf*
urg, or any other place.
,on Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
eets, this business, William Geer, in conjunction with
>nly. Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
it to toprofecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
;t to liccanpoffibly ?xert.
The above company, who are amply provided
seal- w ' th carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fife and commodious, inform
j c thof« wno wilh to patronire and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
n George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrilburg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
;I ' oat eftablilhed.
For the frrther accommodation ol the public,
1 thf a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
:or b' e of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
Vine and return from thcrce and arrive at Hainfburg
eveiy Saturday, so that passengers deflined for
Mul- Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed o« Mon
davw ,
treet, WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster. Jan. 27, 1797-
et of N. B. This Line of Stages starts from thi
house of William Fcrrac, in X.ancafter, on every
IS. Tin '-lay and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro-
Vifth ceeding to the weftwardj iliiii Irom the licufe of
,vir. Samuel 'Elder in Harrifburg every Wedncf
alnut day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shipjic n/burg, and returns
d and fr® m thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily ai in its tour krom FhilAdel
»>h;« mwf
im P" I*- 1 *-
City of Wailiingtoa. j
* ! From
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A rnigmftcentdwelliug-boule so,ocodollars,
& caih 30,006, arje 50,000. ,
1 ditlo
1 ditto 15,000 & calh 3°i oo °
1 ditto 10,000 & c«ib 10,000 20,000
1 ditto 5,000 0e cast 51000 10,000 LVi
1 ditto 5,000 & cart) 5,000 10,000
1 ca(l% prize of ro,ooo j
2 do. s,oooeach, are s 10,000
10 do. itooo - • 10,00 c •
*<? do. 500 - - ««.000
00 do- 100 - - 10,000
2-o do. 50 " ■ 10.000 draw
409 do. It. if • ' lO,DOO
S,OOO jio.
15,00e dj.. io" - ij *5 B >° 0 ° X) ar
16,739 Prites. Perk
B/anks. draw
tc,ooo Tickets, *t Eight Dollars, *oo,oo» Bills
_____ —. utmc
N. B. Tofivaur thofewbo may takea quan- Ju
•tity of Ticlicts,the prize of 40 ) ooodoll&rs will be
the t*3T drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but on* :
And approved notes, fesur jng payment in either ]
mon«y or prizes, in ten days_ alter drawing, will
be received foi anynumber not lefsthan 30 tick
ets. A 1
This Lottery will afford an eUgant specimen of
the private buildings to be ere£led in the City ol CC
Walhington—Two beautiful designs are already
leleiled for the entire fronts on two of the public
lquares; from these drawings it ispropofed toerefl
twocentreand c o'jrcorwerbuildings as soon aspof
fible after this lottfry is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in Soli
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will 1
be made to defray the neceUary expenies of print
>ng, &c. and the furplu* will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National University, to Adl
be erecled within th« city of Walhington. tra |
The real lecuritiesgiven for the paymant of the j o )|
Prize», ire held by the President and two Direfl- y
ors of thf Bsmk of Csl'Jmbia, and are valued at Boe
more than half the amount of the lottery. ejfe
SAMUEL BLODOET. a^,
§, Tieketsmay be had at the Bank ot Colum
bia*; of James Well & Co. Baltimore; of Peter _
' Gilntan, Boston ; of John Hopkios, Richmond ;
. and of Richard W.lls, Cooper's Ferry.
$ mWf for
From the Otfeo Herald. K"
; CAUTION. to ,
r TTTHF.BF.AS a combination of men in this nc ,
1 W county have undertaken to enrich th«m- the
f selves.by fabricating titles to sundry valuable trails he
I of land, the property of gentlemen living in New coi
Yotk, Philadelphia, London and Par», for which wh
.. trails of Isnd large sums of money have been paid lor
s to thoft* fraudulent men, by innocent purchasers ■
s It is therefore jtlft that public information should
s be given, to the end, that the injured may feck re
if dress while the men have property, and are to be
a found. Those who have been discovered are Tru
fe man H.frrUon, Joseph Witcomb, said now to re- (^
i- fide in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly ind di
several others who go under fictitious names. It is jj,
r- iluppofcd that the lands offered fcr sale on those fa- di
3 f bricated titles, are at lead worth fifty thousand e< j
1- dollars. Such as we have aflual knowledge of are th
of as follows; Ltvts No. II and 11, Otfego patent, fu
thenfand acres each, the a&ua! property of William
Dellwyn. now of I.opdon ; lots No. 58 and 64, er
_ fame pitent, tkoufand acres each, the property of iv
Mr. Clfaumont, now of Pari<, and James Averill
and others, ol this State. There is some grounds «<
d to suppose that the lands of Richard Welis and
' Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are ui.der their
, t management.—The Printers will do well to give
' this a,place in their papers, as well to caution the
public against purchasing those lands, as alio to de
l'' prive those men in future from impofiijg on indivi
,C duafs, which their education and address have en- j,
abled them to do heretofore. Witcomb has been {- t
_ a shopkeeper of some note in this country. _ si
The following affidavits will fct in a clear point r
©f view the wickfidnefs of those men, which when tl
the public have perifed, will induee them to ex- h
cufe the interference of ■ Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, Jnly 18th, 1797- v
I Thomas Kelly,of the County of Otfego, hav- ti
ing been led into an error, by John Witcamb and
Truman Harrifon, of the fame County, to lign a
deed to them, for lot No, 58, Otfego patent, which
—. was the property of William f. Franklin now,Mr,
Chamont's and others ; and further the said Joseph |
. and Truman did persuade me to do this against my j
°* inclination, which was made out on the 10th day (
of November, 1793, or set back two years so as ;
to bring it to th*t time ; and further the nam? ol
TT~ Pardon Starks to that deed'was a liAitious nam-, ,
ley there bein" no such perlon there. 1 o this I make I
voluntary oath. THOMAS KELLY.
19th July, 1797*
On the 19th July, 1797, came personally beiort <
me, Thomim Kelly, the fubfenber to the above af
that iidavit, and made foletnn oath that it contains noth
fub- ing tut thr truth.
and I LIHU PHIWNEY, Justice of the Peace.
M. On the 18th July, 1797. came before me Jacob
ale ; Kibby, a person by me well known and worthy of
sub- good credit, who on his solemn oath did lay, that
19th . two of the parties abovementioned did make ap
em- plication to him this deponent, some time in the
obe winter of 1796, to make them a deed for two thou
s of sand acres of land in the Otego patent, and pro
lave miftd this deponent a (hare of the profits on the
nbe sale of said lands, for his so doing ; and that they
W. madeapplicationfeveral times for the fame purpo e,
Sim- which fepvicss this deponent as often refuted, de
the daring to them that he had no right to lands, and
ienf- could do no such thing ; which daring attempt on
this deponent's integrity he had related among his
the friends several times, previous to making this affi
t in davit. JACOB KIBBEY.
with Sworn before me,
uncd ELIHU PHINNEY, Justice of the Peace.
, at- Aug. V law4w
pub- r fhirty Dollars Reward.
lided T? LOPED from the service of the fubferiber,
ce to -tL on the 19th instant, a nepro n)an by the
form name of DICK, about twenty-five years of" age,
: the and five feet niue or ten inches high ; by trade
ts at a carpenter, and is a very lively brisk work
lorfe, man. His countenance is very good —When
nday spoken to, he converses with ease and confi
denbtv and is pretty sagacious. I purchafcd
herto t j,e said fellow of Mr.Dubney Minor, in whole
name he has been advtrtifed in the Richmond
üblic, newspapers- During his last runaway trip (last
lloule fumoier J lie was employed a considerable length
Sun ' of time, by some person near Dumfries, from
a )' which eircuroftance, J conje£lurc, he has taken
1 f rg another nothern route I forewarm all persons
M H r from giving bim employment, of any kind
whatever,and maftersof veflils and others, from
D carrying him out of this Hate. The above re
ward will be given if he is taken within forty
miles of this city; and an additional sum, in
»r proportion to the distance he may be brought,
"I or the trouble and expence the apprehender may
fe 0 f be *l, in bringing him to « h »p£g. DAVIg _
it Pa" N D His apparel was of the usual negro kind,
; „ ;r nJ but he had more cloaths than is cufloraary for
g the them (6 poffels.
ilidel
iwf Richmond, June n# *79f *
Wili be Landed,
From onboard the ihip A<3:ive, Capt.Blair,from
Haojtniigtt* *
20 bakswhh.it Rufiia c!a» Hemp "Excel.
2 calks Clover Sceil
l T or Sale by ' ms
Thomas Herman Lcuffer, J u fc "
North Fifih flccet, !v T o. 34. An - n
Tune 26. t
William Blackburn, A
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE ~
No. 64 south Second-street. llX<
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. It, wlich
conimonced drawing t'le 29th May, FOR j u l
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac-
count of the five firlt drawn tickets, prizes cf ——
four thousand dollars each, on the last day oi
drawing-
Check Deoks kept for examination and reg.tier
ing, ih the Canal, No. 1, City of Walhington, No.
2, and Paterl'on Lotteries. .
Alio, tickets for sale in the Schuylkillbridge and »
Perl; omen 15r,idge lotteries, which will begin 1 J
drawing ia the course of the summer. attcn
The business of a Broker in all kinds of Stock, enqu
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c-&c. tranfaSed with the kw !
utmost attention. not
June % ■ tnftf
Erfkine's View of the War. oftii
JUST PUBLISHED, > b"
Dy ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co. ac,d ;
No 40 South Second ftrtet, ccr i,'
[Price 31 Cents] "; ir , e
A View of the Causes and Confequen- bo v<
ces of the present War with Trance. c°?i
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine. a "\
May 15 $ near
~Ytate trials, j!
Sold b W. Yooito, Bookseller, No. J*, South Sc- CO
« cond-flrect,
The Pennsylvania State 1 rials, just
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and ac«jnit
al of FrancisHopkinfon, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gcify
cral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Yoitmg has for sale,» general assortment of
■ Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack- con
ege, well aflorted,and entitled to the drawback if
sxpwted. J n 'y 7 —* j
; 6i,
T| SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by ft r ,
the Envov Extraordinary and Minitler Pletii-
potentiary of his Biitannie Majelly, General Agent f e<a
loraffifting Bririlh ci»diiois, and such particular a- -
gents as tliey may fpei ially authorite, in profesuting
their claims before the c«mnii(Tioners for carrying i»-j ,
to effeft the sixth article ot the Tretty of Amity, Com-' '
« merce and Navigation tetwsen his Britannic Maje/ly ind _J
- the United States of America, hereby gives nonce that J n
a he has opened his office at his house the south call
V corner of Chefnut and fifth streets, Philadelphia,
li where he is ready to all claims or tnllruaions 1
[I for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof, -*
for the purpose of bringing forward the fame agree- cla
J ably so the rules and orders which the board may «<
think proper to prescribe. Pr
And as it will be for the interell of all concerned, w;
' e that the several claims be so stated, and support- wj
'* ed, as to prevent the delay which would anfc from ,
E " the ne<;eßity of obtaining further iulormation, or ad- *
ditional materials,from perlom redding at a distance, G
'» the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (far the va
»" direftion chiefly of thot'c, who, not having employ- CO
"1 ed particular agents, may leave the prosecution of ni
re their claims to his charge and management) that all te
it, such claims ought in paiticularto fetforth
m >ft. The proper defcriptionand funation of the
4, creditor 01 claimant, and original debtor, refpafl.
of ively. ... a.
ill «d. The date andnarure of the original contractor
i*l ' 3d. When, in what manner, and to what extent, J
■ r the creditor or claimant Wis prevented or impeded.
: by the provision, operation or deleft of law, the -
1 e decifionsand praftice ol aourrs, or reflraint ot exe
he eution, from reeoveriog payment of the debt in •
c .~ queftioix " . ,
"" ath. The lofsand damage incurred or rullained,
:n " in confcquente of fifch impediments, whether :|ie »:
cn f ame may have arisen from the infolveney, change of cl
situation, or dearh of thedebtoi, the loss of legal h
int remedy from laple of time, or othercaufes impairing d
ien the value and lecurity of the debt, which would not h
cr- have (o operated if such impediments had notexilled, fl
And sth. The paukular grounds add realons on t
which the claimant mairuains, in the terms ol the j.
iv- treaty, that "by the ordinary course of judicial pro- t
n( j ings, the creditor canr.ot now obtain and atluaP.y
hare aud receive full and adequate compenfation'* lor
'l the losses and damages fofuftaiued. v
, The general agent thinks it his duty further tofug-
i>eft thdt the several claims ought to be accompanied .
;p and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly attelled, both as to tbeaxtllencc
■lay of the debts claimed, and such other circumllanees
1 as may'be within their own knowledge respectively.
ot And wber/fer the claimants in Hating the nature of j
m«, their evidence (which mull in every inflance be the
akc bed of which the cafe is capable) have occasion to
refer to thetellimony of witnelTes, it will bt proper
to apprifethe general agent of the names and placet
fort of rtlidence ol such witnelTetartd thefaftsto be ella
;af- blilhed by their testimony.
3th- Win. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, ]t*rßth. 171)7. d
[cob " For Sale,
yof That <well known place, called VandEom ft's
that (. f r h Y,
ap- Nelhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phila
the ladelpliia, on the New York poll road,
lcru " containing 74 acres and 94 perches. UpoD the
P r °" premifies are a large two ftcry ft«ne house occu
l pied asatvern, and a good one story ftonekit
-7 clien, a large frame stable with a good threfhirg
j floor, and forac out buildings—also a well of
ind good water, and an excellent ice House. On
t on this place is a most elegant situation fora gentle
, his man's leit, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny t»lts jundlion wiih tße Delawajse, and thence
!. across to the Jerfty shore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Sabfcriber,
w . MORDECAI LEWIS.
Vav 24- jtaw'f.
iber> COLUMBIA HOUSE
the Boarding School for young Ladies,
age, -« /rRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
rade J\X ureand refpefl, returns her sincere ac
'ork- Unowledgemcnt for the liberal encouragemeat
n, e has received during four years residence i«
Philadelphia ; and aflures her frrends ami the
ia fed public, so far from intending to decline her
' hose school, (he lias made a superior arrangement for
nond t j, £ mor e convenient accommodation of her
(last scholars. —Every branch of ufef'il and polite
■»gtt education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
from Groombridge and niafttrs excelling in their
a ken j-efpetflive urofeffions.
rfons Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets,
kind June ,-th, 1797-
from Xhe situation is perfectly bealtky ; and made
e re " more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
forty 0 f ground adjoining the house.
K Just Publijhed,
may to be had of Messrs. Dofcfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, ami the other pricipal Booksellers in the
IS. city.price one dolla'r, twmty-five cents,in hoards,
kind, jsj ew Views the Origin ot the
y * or Tribes and Nations of America.
D . By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m.d.
June 20.
Rofs SiwfotJ, s
j —HAVE FOR SALE
r Hogflieads,
Excellent Coffee in < Tierces, and i
C Eafrel*. '
A small parcel qf nice cocoa in bags
v few Jamaica (pints, fourth proof
Superior TcreriHcr wine, old and in Madeira pipes
An invoice of jewellery and hosiery to be t fold by
the package
A saw h»ni p. rs oi Left cheefe.
Juiy 27. dtf.
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditro ditt > Claret in cases
Just received, and for Sale by
Rundls & Leech.
Am. it. aawtf
Higgins' Specific
FOR THB
PREVENTION AND CURE OF THE
YELLOW FEVER.
EVER since this disease ni-ciw such ravages In th-is
1 city and New-York, Iheauthor lias turned hit
attention to its caufea ancj cure.—The relult of his >
enquiries has convinced him that the reason why so
few persons recover from its attacks, are fr»m its
not being well understood, and the confequeiit
wrong method taken to cure it. He is perfuaJcd
that the excefiive bleedigns and niercurii:! reatment
of the Faculty is highly injurious, and that the on- I
ly rational mode of treatment isby theufe of prop ;r
acids. Convinced of this he offers his Specif cas a
certain remedy, if used according to the direct ion?.
To be had in bottles, at one dollar each, of the
inventor Geo. Higgiris, Cheriry street, two doors 3-
bove Ninth street, (late manager of Jackson and
Co's Medicine Wareboufe, London); by J. Le~
Have, No. 2'6 ;W. Griffith, No. 177» Pearce, No..
21, South Third ftrebt, T. Stiff, No. 55,N#w llreet,
near Vine street, and J. Sales, No. 36, Race llreet.
Aug. ij. tuths jt
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just received, by Wm. Griffiths,Na.ll7,South
Second-street, a frefh supply of
Genuine Bal/am of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hill
(who knowledge as aßotanift procured him
p the appellation of the Linntsus of Britain) and is
•oii'fidered in England as a certain cure for the above
[ complaints; it is also of Angular efficacy in the
Hooping Cough,
It inay also be had retail of YV. A. Stokes, No.
6i, South Second-street, and T. STirr, 55, New
' flr«et, in bottles at 75. cents each.
Wm. Griffiths having observed the happy e£-'
' feift of the medicine, (fevcral cases of cures hav
ing come within his own knowledge) and the great A
? demand (for it has induced him-to order a large
"( supply, a part of which he has just received. ,
stufrlf 3. _ jaw^w
1 bifurance Company of North America.
, j
I r T"'HE Stockholders in this company are here-
I, JL by informed, that, pursuant to the fifth %
- claufecf their Charter, and at the request of a
y " Number of Stockholders, who, together, are
proprietors of Six Thousand Shares, and up
wares," a general meeting of the Stockholders
l " will be held at the Company's Office, on Mon
™ the 25th day of September next, it 11
( . o'clock, A. M. for the purpose of filling up a
,e vacancy in their Direction ; and Hiking into
yr. consideration foch Regulations or Bye La-vs as
of may beprefented in conformity with the Char
»ll ter of Incorporation.
EBEN. HAZARD, Sec'ry.
cj e July 20. w&ltS 25
or' 30 Dollars Reward. ,
RAN away on Saturday last, two indebted Ser
vants, GifFordpally, a mulatto boy, about 17
, a " years of age, a <Jim light, built a&ive ifllov.-, caa
' C read and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
j n has a heavy eourtenar.ee ; had on a fuftian coatee
and trowf.rs, a high crowned hat, fine ihoes &c.
:< j Allan Heltons, a black man, about 24 years of
he »ge, five feet (even or eight inches high, a thick set
of cluiify built fellow, particularly aboutthe breech;
gal had'on a sailor's blue jackrt lined with fwanlkiii,
ing dark striped vest, fuftian tiowfen, high crowned
lot hat, coarse shoes, &e.; each of them had several
ed. Ikirts and several other cloathes with them. 1 hir
-00 ty Dollars will be p,iid for the runaways, or 15 dol
thc i irs f or eac ; 1) aR d rcafunable charges, oh delivering ,
r °" them at No. 54, North Third-street.
I,! >' The black fellow is about a year from Lewis
lor Town, in the County of Sussex, state of Dela
ware, audhas taken the boy with him.
"S July 31- mtu&f^w
To be SOLD or RENTED,
nee
ices « LARGE 3 Story Brick House, on the
c 'y- l\ South fide of Filbert street, between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
'(le veyor General's Office.
' ° The Builfliji& is 36 feet front and 3 j feet detp,
ac« the lot Ho feet deep, with the privilege of a nine
lla- feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriage*
to turn in. The House is not j-laftered, and ,
may be turned either into pne, or two dwelling
Houfe:-. It is suitable for a large Manufaiflory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
t's pofieflion will he given.
Apply to No. 111, Chefnut-Street.
lila- Aug. ai. cod^t.
Muftcal InJlrument Manufactory,
;cu _ Uo. 167, Arch Street.
kit- U"ARPER,harpfichord,grand, portable grasd,
ling 11 fid aboard, pier tattle and ifquaxe piano fore
1 0 f maker frona London, returns thanks to his friends
On and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
ntle . and hopes that by hisafficuity and attention to ev
ery branch of Eis t'ufineft, toirerit a <|ortinuance
' of their favors. Piano fern s made on th» newest
l T n<:e and most approved plans, with pedals, patent,
CgC fvvell, and French harp stop, which hefi'tteis
himfelf will ue found < n uial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not fuyerior to any import
ed, a»d twenty per cent cheaper. Any lr.Hru
IL m-.nt purcha'ej ..f him, if not approved of in
twelve months, he will exchange. |
N.B. All kinds of Malicil mftrumajits roade,
uned, and repairea with the grerUefl'accuracy,
•leaf- dispatch, and on the metl realonable term:, Its ,
: JC * ready fiaoney only.
meat Second hand Piano Forte* takt nin exchange,
«eiR May jc. & 1111 ':
' i?e'- Forty Dollars Reward.
it for -c-j AN away from <he fublcriber 011 the fee
her [v. enddayof this inft. July, a Mulatto Man,
»olite named Will Bowzer, abojt Arty* years ot age,
r! - five ftet fevtn or eight inches high, rather
their chunky made ; had on when he went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, striped purple trow l'er*
:ts, an d jacket. It is probable he will change his 1
W cloathes, as he took a number with him. 7he i
made f a „i fsjfow formerly belonged to Nir- Charles
idiot B|,kc of this place; and it is expedled t.thas ,
made towards Jones's Neck, in the Delaw-veJ
" State—Any person apprehending the laid fe!- '
low, and feturing him so that I can get liim a
,Rice, „ a | n> (hill receive the above reward if iak'n
n tlle Set of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
oards, coun t V) a nd all realbi.able charges if bro't
the home. '
ca< REED,
■ Queen Ann's Ceunty, MaiyUnd.
*6t Jn'y 3- wjt i