of the BttlteU 6 s Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1572.] TUESDAY EVENING, fANUART 31, 1797. ["VOLUME XI.
SALE BY AUCTION.
Schooner O R I O N
WILL be fold to the highest bidder, on Thurfdiy, Fe
bruary 2, at 7 o'clock ib the evening, at the mer
chants' Coffee-Hcufe, in Second Street, on two and four
months' credit, for approved notes with an indorfer.
The Orion is sixteen months ©Id, her frame is of the
bell of White Oak ; she is a faithfu ; /built vessel, hand
somely finifhed, and well found in every particular, is
ready to receive a cargo, and can be ft;nt to sea without
any expense on her hull fails <>>r rigging. She (lows fix
hundred barrels, has a handsome cabin and steerage, and
a half deck which will flow feventy-five or eighty barrels. ,
"Site is a fact-failing vefPel, and has been ri«wly caulked,
graved, painted, and put in thorough repair in every re
fpe<st. Her Inventory may be seen by applying to mr. Sa
muel Smith, Ship-broker, No 86 south Front-street, or
to the captain, on board said schooner, laying opposite
mess. Wills & Yardley's wharf, adjoining Chefnut-ftreet
whirs —where she at any time mdy be thoroughly exam
ined by those who wish to purchase.
January 30 §
FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP MART,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
ESizEraS-IStSSST wo hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in »few days, she will tak
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Oiftober 31. d
jr3ri For Sligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship Nancy,
Cuthhert Riggs, master.
Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or paflage apply to
William Bell;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well aflorted
3 Bales Irish Fiannsl., and 1 boxes Linens
15 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Russia Matts,
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, 1796, mwftf
M»s. G R A TTA N
Refpe#lful!y informs her friends, and the public in
general, that on Tuesday the iothday of January,
flie proposes opening, at No. 39, North Sixth
ftreet,
A Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
Book Muslins, from 6/3 ton/ii per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to 9/8 p«r yard
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to io/10 per yard
Fine Coffees
Tambour'd Book Muslins, from 13/9 to %\f per yard
India Muslin, from 11/3 to 15/ per yard
Sheeting Muslin
Jaconet muflifl Handkerchiefs, from to 6/ per hdkf.
Book muslin Handkerchiefs from 5/3 to 10/6 per hdkf.
Muslin color'd apdborder'd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Ha/idkerchiefs
Tambeur'd Cravats from 10/$ to li/ll
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/3 to 16/$ per yard
Table Cloths
Huckabuck Towelling
Women's Cotton Hose, from 6/$ to pair
Dimity from j/10 to 6fn
Men's Silk Hose
Tambour'd muslin Handkerchiefs from 11/ ii to 13/1
Irish linens for Gentleiren's .Shirts, from 5/5 to 9/7
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, &c. See.
Houfhold Linen, &c. &c.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 3 1-2 dollars.
A full'ruflfted ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 5 dollars.
A full rufled itto 6 dollars
A plain shirt, made and marked, 5 i-2 defers.
A full ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 i-l.
A plain (birt, made and mark'd, 6 1-2 dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Linen included.
January 13. 5
Bank of Pennsylvania,
January 4, 1797.
At a meeting of the Directors th : s day, a dividend of
sixteen dollars on each share was declared for the Jail
6 months, which will he paid to the Stockholders af
ter the 14th inft.
JONATHAN SMITH, Cafoier.
Jan. 3. <ltf.
Washington Canal Lottery,
N0 . I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authoriftd
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand.
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through th j City of Washington, fro si th. I'o
iomacto theEaftern Branch Han.our.
The following is the SCHHME of No. I.
Viz -i Prize of 20,000 dollars, 20,000
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7 lad drawn ■>
Tichstl, each j 35 '° 0 °
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
ao ditto 100 1,000
55 ditto jo a,750
5750 ditto 11 69,008
To be raised for th« Canal, 16,15 a
5850 Prizss, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000'
The Commissioners hav» taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid a<sl for the pnnitual payment 0)
the prizes.
The drawing sf this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as tlx* Tickets are fold, of which timely
.notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finilhed, shall be considered. as relinquifiicd'for
the benefit ®f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL,o/D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER, .
Wm. M.DUNC ANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
Cit of Wafhipgton, Feb. 11. J
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, isfc. &c.
This day landing from the ship Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from London,
And FOR S ALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut aad Secohd-ftreets,
A mojl capital and extensive AJfortment of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
> ROOTS, See. &c.
which are,
Five kinds .AfparagusfiThrec kinds Crefles
Four Berecole Twelve Onion
Twenty-five Beans Thirteen Radish
Six Beets Fifteen Turnip
Eleven Brocoli Fifteen \_Peas
TWenty-fix Cabbage Six Savoy
Six Carrryf Four Parfriip
Three Cauliflower Twenty-three M^lon
Five Celery Twenty-one Lettuce
Ten*" Cucumber!
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Marygold Pot Marjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerns
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. See.
With a curious collection of the most esteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the most extanfive ever imported into this city.
The above are fr»m a capital Seedsman in London, and
are warranted frefh and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec, p §
The Stockholders of the Pennsylvania
Population Company
Are requested to m*et at the Company's Office, No.
53, North Fourth-ftrect, on. Wednesday, the ift of
February next, at 11 o'clock, for the purpose of taking
into consideration the proceedings of the Company, and
of making further assessments on the shares, in order
to defray the expences of the Company agreeable to
the loth, Article of the Constitution.
By order of the Boart!.
SOLOMON MARACHE, Secretary.
January, 13d, 1797- dtFeb.i.
Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOB SON,
No. aj, South Third-flreet,
Has jnfl reeeived, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, via Lon
don, an afTortment of
Scarlet
Drab /Cloaks trimmed with fur aad
Purple and { ermine.
Pearl J
December 15. §
Cheap French China.
THE ftibferibers finding it impossible to supply their
flore with any more China from France, the prices ;
being top immoderate in the matiufa<£\«rie«, give oot
tire that they will fell at prime cost the rtmainipg
stack »n hand, consisting of
Defiert Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
Separate Cups and Saucera
Groupes and Figures
Alabafler Vases
Looking GlafTes, m gilt frames,
Besides India Japan'd Toilet Desk?, Chairs. Tables
nad Quadrille Boxe . PASQUIEK t< Co.
No. 91, South Second-ftieet.
December stl). tt
c? NOTICE.
'"P'HE Sales of LANDS of the United States, in the
-L North-Western Territory, heretofore advertised
in the several public pipers, will commence this even
ing, at the City Tavern to be continued from day
to day, 'till the tenth of February next, if hot sooner
fold.
January 4 $
Public Notice,
IS HEREBY GIV£N, that I have applied to the
judges of the Supreme Court of this state, to supply the
defeat in my Title to a lot of ground, situate on the Wefl
fide «f Fourth-flreet, containing in breadth 20 feet, and
in length 56 feet, bounded Northward and Westward, by
ground of the fubferiber, Southward by ground of Edward
Shippen, and Eafrward by Fourth-flreet, occasioned by
the loss of a deed from Timothy Harringtdn, John Lewis |
and James Walton, by their attorney Robert Mollyneux !
-7— All perfoae concerned, are required to appear before
two of the juflices of the said court, at the house of
Thomas M'Kean, esq. the Chief Jaftice of the state, on '
the 30th inft. at 10 o'clock in the forenoon, to make their
answer to the bill of the fuSfcriber, filed in the office of
Edward Burd, esq. Prothonotary of the said court.
WILLIAM SHIPPEN, jun.
Philadelphia, January 6th, 1797. dt3oth
In order to comply wits) contracts, I fell* for
approved bonds, on 3 equal annuhl payments,
A Square of LOTS,
At the upper end of Frederickfburg, beginning op
posite to the lower corner of Doflor Weltford's, on
Caroline-flreet, and running up to the cress flreet
leading to Fitzhugh's ferry, and from thence back to<
Sophia-street. This square I have laid off into 14 lets,
17 and an half feet front, and 121 back, 12 on Caro
line-street, and 12 oil Sophia-street. Nine of those
ou Caroline-street I have leafed on an annual ground
rent of 8 and 10 pounds, to the amount of 74 pounds,
and the vacant lots a purchafet could enhance the value
of by building small houses, which will as readily
procure tenants as pots or goards will Martins in the
spring, and yiel-o a greater profit in proportion to
their cost than large buildings. Thof" whe incline
to purchase may know the terms by applying to
HENRY FITZHUGH.
Bell-Air, Dec. 8, 1796. 7thJ.d4w
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was bought for Ten Thousand
Dollars.
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet.
He eats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water ; he has drank some days forty bottles of porter,
drawing the corks with bis trunk.
He is perfectly inoffenfive; travels loose, at the
rate of five miles an Hour, and is the greatest curiosity
ever hrought to this Contiment.
He is to be seen 'till the 15th of January, in'
Marllet-ftreet between Third and Fourth-streets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him—
after which time the former price of half a dollar wHI
be resumed.
He will leave Pljil+delphia as soon as the weather
will fterflgit.
December 3X 4
WM. HAT DON,
Drawing-Master, from London,
Where he has studied several years under one of
the most eminent matters in that science, attends
yotitfg Ladies and Gentlemen at their refpevfHvehomes.
His terms are 6 dollars per month for attendance three
times per week. L.ikewife all kinds of ornamental
Painting, Flowers, Fruit, See. taught on the above
terms. A line dire&ed to W. H. left with the Editor
of this Gazette, will be immediately attended to,
eozw
SALT P E T R E.
A lar;;et quantity of D<-uhle-Refined Salt Petre for
sale at No. 25, South 'fhird-ftreet.
November 5.
A CARD.
If Monfcur G H. S&HLE,
Who left Bordeaux the 20th June last, and arrived
5t Boston ?.bout the middle of Aaguft, in the schooner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is requested to call on
Jo!Vph Anthony & Co. No. 5, Chefnut-ftreet, who
will give him fount information of importance*
December 14, 1796. $
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET,
Has received by the late arrivals,
A IVell Selecled Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, on. the very
lpweft terms ;
Amongji (which are
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns
Ditto Furniture ditto
Ditto Dimity #
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muslins
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hoficry
Umbrellas of the firft quality, aflorted
lrilh Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets aflorted—&c. Ac.
03ofo«r 26. t d
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turnpike
Company,
January 6, 1797
At a meeting of the Prefideqt and Managers, a di
vidend of five dollars per share, was declared for the
aft half year, which will be paid to the Stockholders,
or their representatives any time after the 21ft ef this
month.
TENCH FRANCIS, Treasurer.
PROPOSALS,
For carrying the Mails of the United
' States,
On the following PoJ} RoaJs, will be rectived until
thefirjl day of March next inclufv.' -•
fr. From Charleston, S. C. by .Jackfonboro? and Coofa
hatchy, to Savannah, twice a week. Receive the Vlail
at Charleftmi every Tueiday and Friday by 6, P. M. and
deliver it at Savannah the next Friday and Monday, by 8
A. M. Returning, receive the Mail at Savannah evt,
i Saturday, by 6, P.M. and Wednefdiy by 6, A. M. and
I deliver it at Charleston the and Friday
I by noon.
Prop of its for this route "wilt he received by the pojl-majter at
Savannah.
2. From Coofahatchy to Beaufort once a week-
Receive the mail at Coofahatchy every Thursday by 6,
p. m. and deliver it at Beaufort by no 3» on Friday. Re
turning, leave Beaufort every Friday by p. M.and arrive
at Coofahatchy on Saturday by 8, a. m.
Proposals for carrying the mail on this route will be r«-
ceived by the poft-nmftcr ?.t Beaufort.
Note i. The Poft-mafler Genera! may alter the times
for the arrival and departure of the ihails at any time du
ring the continuance of the contrails, he previously stipu
lating an adequate compensation for any extra expence
chat may he ocoafioned thereby.
Note 2. For every hours delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in arriving after the times prescribed by con
tract, the contractor shall forfeit one dollar and if the
delay continue until the departure of any depending mail
an additional forfeiture of five dollars lhall be incurred.
Note 3. Should any person making proposals desire an
alteration of the times of arrival and departure above fpe
cified, he mufl state the alteration desired a»d the price
he will carry the mail for with and without such alte- ■
ration
Note 4. The contrails are to be in operation on the
firft day of April next and to continue until the 30th of
September in the year 1800.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Pejl Majler General.
General Post Office, V
Philadelphia, Jan. 13,1796.)
d6w.
Mrs. Grattan
Refpe<sM'ullv informs the Ladies and Gentlemen of the
City, that the third
LADIES' CONCERT
Will be on Tuesday next, at the Aflembly Room.
Asr I.
Overture, ------ Pleyel.
P»Jl»rd Seng, Mrs. Grattan, - - Haydn.
Sonnat*. Piano Forte, .. .. Reinagle.
Recitative, '• Comfsrt ye my people",
Uti. (jrattan, - Handel.
Chorus and the Glory, ... Handel.
Act 11.
Concerto Violoncello,
Song. Mrs. Grattan. - Guglumi
Sonrwta Piano forte, ... Ferrari.
Song, Afr.Hill, .... Handel.
Chorus, ' For unto us'', 7 Handel.
Mrs. Grattan begs leave to inform the Ladies and
Gentlemen, that the fubfcriptioß-book is at htr house
No 39, North Sixth-street, for the reception of those
names who wish to honor her with their commands. —
A fubfcriptron for eight nights 16 dollars, including a
Gentleman and Lady's ticket, both transferrable —
Half fubferiptions 8 dollars, including one ticket.—
Single ticket t dollars.
Mrs. Grit can takes the liberty of requesting the
fubferibers to fend for their tickets any day after
Thursday, the 15th of December, at Ne. 39, North
Sixth-street.
Sing's tickets to be had the day of the Concert
pnly, at the Bar of Mr., Oellers's Hotel.
*4* The Concert to begin at haff past fix ; and at
half past eight, the music will attentf forth* Ball.
January 28 H
To be Sold by Public Vendue,
On Saturday, the 28th January, at the Merchants'
CofFce-Houfe,
A NOT E,
DraVn by William Burgifs and Co. of South
Third-street, near Market-street, Linen Drapers, in
favour of Robert Burgifs, jtih. or order, for 6&0
dollars. The said Note became due the 30th Dec.
last, and was prorefted for non-payment.
For approved notes at 60 days.
January 3
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL fituatt-d, laying on and between Marfti
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
four separate Patents. For terms of sale apply to
ffm. Blackburn,
No. 64, South
January 26. mwfgf
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chefnut
£reet, where a corred; Numerical Book isjeept for public
infpe6Hon, Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex*
changed for prizes di awn in the Washington Lottery, of
which the 54th and 55th days returns are received,
1 he Bufincfs of a Broker carried on as usual.
j«'iiury iq. ttstf
All Persons having Demands
Against the Estate of the late Thomas Franklin,
deceased, are desired to bring in their accounts for
settlement; and those indebted to make immediate
payment, to ISRAEL PLEASANTS, ") F
WALTER FRANKLIN, or V hxccu "
SAMUEL R. FRANKLIN, ) tors '
January 14th, 1796. * eo2w
Wants a Situation,
As a Housekeeper, an English womin, completely
qualified in every re!pe£l to keep a Gentleman's House.
Enquire of the Printer.
January 26 *5t
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his profeflional friendi,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
Union, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and ready for Sale, from a finple volume to an entire li-
without any advance iip.->n his former exceeding low
prices, which forfeveral years pa* have iu so d*ftingui?hed *
manner recommended them'to notice
Printed Catalogues combing ihe most extensive collec
tion cf the lated English and Inlh Editions ever imported
into thts country, are ptablilhcd, and will be delivered giati*
on application.
Orders addrclTed to G. D. in writing from any diftancc
lhalj be pun&ualjy attended to.
A number of TRUNKS for Sqle,
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient LOFT, near Mat ket Street Wharf.
ov - 8 - tn&f 3 H>
FOR SALE,
At Whltefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial "p f* Hyson Skin.
Hyson, C Frelh Teas. < Souchong,
Young Hyson, ) CBobea
9*
Le Breton,
5 UR GEON-DENT IST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentil! to the
King and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete assortment oi every thing neccflary
to be used for'the
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth;
Patent Minoral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth j
Dentrifice in powder ; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
sweetening (he mouth and preserving the teeth—he
also furnifhes Bruflies and foft Sponges.
*** He lives in Cheinut-llreet, No. 13.5, above
Fourth flreet.
November 26. tts
For Sale, or Charter,
JfXx The Ship DIANA,
Sam us i. Pile, Matter,'
Burthen 205 47-95 tons register, built in
Philadelphia in the year 1792, of live oak
j and red cedar, and was (heathed 13 months ago, (he
has just had a compleat out-fit, and may be font to sea
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin & Co.
Who hai>e for sale on board said vejftl,
27 calks of fine yellow paint.
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing dates.
1 box ink stands and note prefles.
14 bales of fail aanvafs.
And on handy
Imperial
Hyson, and, > TEAS.
Souchong J
40,0c0 pieces Nankeens of the frrft qsajky.
\t) tubs Quicksilver.
t cKefti Bandantio handkerchiefs. 1
A few chests Manchester goodswell afiorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Mufiinets, Dimities, &c.
3 boxes black sewing silk.
180 crates Queens ware well aflbrted.
10 tons sheet lead.
Nails aflbrted, flat and (harp points.
London Particular, . . ....
London Market, f Madetra W.ne ,n ptpa,
New-York Market, ) #nd
40 pipes and 10 hogflieids Teneriflfc wine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
130 logs Mahogany.
Nov 7. ttk&ftf
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the subscriber ©n the 23d O&ober,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOS&S ; 21 year#
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mixed green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttom ;
a striped vest ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change
his name and dress. He has been accustomed to driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will b«
paid for fccuring him so that the fubferiker may get him
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
Robins Ch amber laine.
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. je. 14 §jmiawt£JNew I heatre.
ON WEDNESDAY TVF.NTNG, Febrvjry T,
Will be preferred, the Historical Play of
Colunxbus ;
Or, A WOULD DISCOVERED.
WITH NEWSCXNF.RY, MACHINERY, DRESSES
AND DECOR \TION3.
Themufic composed by Mr. Reinagje.
The proreffions and Pageant by Mr. Byrne.
In this Play rhe manners and customs of Mexico and
Peru charaStriz'e the firft discovered nations of America.
Such deviation frem Historical truth was deemed necessary
for drstpatic-effeca, and has enabled the author to intro
duce the pathetic Tale of CORA and ALONZ<J, from
Marmontel's Inccn,
jThe PROLOGUE will be spoken by Mr. Wicnih..
SPANISH PARTY.
Columbus, Mr. Cooptr
•Alonzt), Mr. lAoreton
Marry Herbert, Mr. Wignell
Dodtor DolGrei, Mr. Harxvotd
Bribon, Mr. Francis
Mr. Fox
Vllverdo, Mr. Darley
Mofcofo, Mr. Blijett
Captain, Mr. McDonald
ift Spaniard, Mr. Darley, jun.
id Spaniard, Mr. Morgan
INDIANS.
Orozimbo, Mr. Warren
Solafco, Mr. 1? EJI range
Catalpo, Mr. Warrell
Cuto, Mr. Worrell, jun.
Cora, Mrs. Merry
Nelti, Mri. Francis
Prieftefles the Sun, $
\ Mrs. Mechtler-y &c.
Indian Women.—Mrs Hnrvey, Mrs. Do&or, Miss Mil
bourne, Miss Oldfield Miss L'Eftrange, Miss Bates, Miss
Anderfon, and M'elle Sophie
In ?£t t.
A PROCESSION OF INDIANS, and thefirft
Landing of Columbus.
In aft 3.
REPRESENTATION 6F A STORM AND EARTHQUAKI;
v With a Grand Erupt to* fiom a Volcano.
In a& 4.
A March of Sacrifice, and Proccflion~to the Execution
of Cora.
The whole to conclude with A GRAND PAGEANT.
The scene of the Volcano designed by J. Richards,
Esq. R. a. principal Scene Painter to Covent-Garden
Theatre. s
The reft of the Scenery designed by Mr. Milbourne,
and the whole executed by him and under his direc
tion. *
Maehinift, Mr. Lenthall.
The dresses designed by Mr. Gibbons.
To which will be added,
A MUSICAL FARCI, called
The Flitch of Bacon ;
Or, DUN MOW PRIORT.
Wilson, Mr Darley.
Greville, Mr. Darley, jun.
Major Benbow, Mr. Bates
Tipple, Mr. Prigmore,
Being hii firfl appearmcc at this Theatre.
Ned, Mr. J. Worrell
Kilderkin, Mr. Morgan,
Mr. Mitchell
Justice Benbow, , Mr. Warrell
E'iza, Mr«. Warrell
On Friday, the Tragedy of VENUE PRE
SERV'JJ, with entertainments.
______ -
Box, One Dollar cents. Pit Sere* Eigh hs
of a Dollar, and Gallery, half a dollar.
I ickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's Book-store
No. 5© High-ftpeet, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
* .Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their
servants to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and
to order them, soon As the company are feared, t©
withdraw, as they cannot on any account be permit
ted to remain-
Places for the Boxes to be taken at the Office on .Satur
day raoening, as usual.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
Places for the Boxes to t>c takgn at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from 10 till 2 o'clock, and from
10 till 4 on the days of performance.
VIVAT RESPUBLICA!
College-Hall.
Readings and RECifATioNS,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
On TUESDAY EVENING, Jan. 31, at 7 .'clock,
Will be delivered,
THE EFFECTS OF AMBITION AND GUILT,
Considered, traced and exemplified in the chara&er of
Macbeth.
With recitations of the most striking scenes, and moral
and critical observations on the chara<ster, and on the au
thor.
Tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfon, jun. at the Library ;
at mr. M'Elwee's looking-glass-store, No. 70, S. Fourth
flreet ; and at Mr. Carey's, Bookseller, Market-street—
Half a dollar each.
FOR THE BENEFIT OF
Mr. and Mrs. Tompkins.
Pantheon,
AND RICKETTS's AMPHITHEATRE.
For E<iuistrian and Stage Performances.
Corner of Ghefnut and Sixth-streets.
THIS EVENING, Tuesday, Jan. 31,
By Particular DeCre,
Don Juan ;
Or, THE LIBERTINE DESTROY'D
MR. RICKETTS will in particular on that evening go thro'
a variety of Performances in the
Equeflrian Exercises.
A new comic Song, called
THE TINKER,
By Mr. Sully.
THE IRISH NEWSMAN,
By Mr. Sully.
"she whole to conclude with the comic Pantomime of
ROBINSON CRUSOE ;
Or, Harlequin Friday.
fit Doors to open ut five, and the performances to com
mence at a quarter after fix o'clock.
Tickets to be had at the usual places, an J of Mr. Tomp
kin«, at nr. Albertos's, Frout-ftreet, leiond door below
Spruce-street.
January ji S lt
From the N»w-York Daily Gazette.
Ido not suppose it necessary (fays a eorrefpord
ent, who calls himfelt an enemy oj Foreign Influence)
to apologize for troubling you with the following
Extracts, translated from a history of the Ameri.
can war, written in French, by M. Milliard D'Au
berreuil, publilhed in 178 a, and fold at Paiii un
der the eye of the government. Of their authen
ticity no doubt will be entertained, if we consider
that the freedom of press was unknown in
France at the time of publication, and and fevcral
years after it. The free circulation of the work is
therefore an obvious proof of their genuineness—lt
involves a virtual acknowledgement of the hiltorians
veracity as far, at least, as relate* to the motives of
the Court, and the fentihients of the people.
"Theagents of the United States at the Courts
of France and Spain, gained credit and confe
quense in propoition as the American arms were
vidWious. The agitation of the Courts became
general. Their sole object was to depress Eng.
land, and reduce her to a power of the second or
der in the political hierarchy of Europe. The
People of France recolle&ed the national indigni
ties and misfortunes which preceded the peace ot
1763. They evinced an ardent thirit far war, and
were impelled with a strong difirc of revenge. The
fame spirit situated the Court.
" Lord Stormont, the English A mbaffador com
plained of the indulgence experienced by the Amer
icans in French ports. He ds-wanded that orders
should be issued prohibiting the sale of arms and am-
Munition to the rebels—that the American priva
teers fliould not be permitted to fell their prizes—
that they should be treated as pirates and iuterdift
ed the ports. These demands were admitted—The
royal orders, issued in consequence of them, were
so rigidly executed that feverral Americans, wlio
•wijhed to infringe them, were seized and purilhed,
notwithstanding the reprefeotations of the Agents
of Congrels, who transmitted the intelligence to
America, where an advantageoMs, connexion was
generally despaired of.
" Matters were in this lituation when the - news
of Burgoyne's capture arrived, and fsddenly chang
ed the whole afpe£t of affairs. O. Britain evinced
a desire to accommodate the exffting differences with
America upon the best terms she could. "We
rauH cease, it was fa id. to be the dtipes of France
—we must unite with America to reduce the pow
er of our ancient enemy, who is the original caujt
of our quarrel "
" It was then that France saw no time fliould be
loft. It was high time for Louis to anticipate the
designs of his enemy The interejl of his people as
well as his own glory were committed, and nothing
more was neeejfary to determine him to take into
corfideration the overtures of Congress.
" Accordingly, 00 the 16th ot December, 1777,
Mr. Gerard, secretary of the Council of State,
waited on the Ameratcan Awbaffadois and told
them by order of the King, that after long and ma
ture deliberation, it wsi decided to treat with them
as the representatives of an independent people ;
that it was obviously the iutereft of France to curtail
the power of England by disuniting America from
her ; that the King would not infill on America's
refuting a peace with England if advantageous pro
posals were offered ; but that the only condition
required, and on which he calculated, was, that
no treaty fliould be made with England in which
the United States renounced their independence,
and acknowledged allegiance to that government.—
The treaty-was concluded Feb. 6, 1778." Thus
far the extratl.
The following remarks are not unapplicable.™
" The Americans gained credit in France only
in proportion as their arms became vift®rions"—
that is, while they were unfuccefsful, the fcala of
French favour turned the ether way. France
would not meddle in a doubtful quarrel. Nothing
could be done for us in the dark year of 1776.
Eighteen months elapsed after the declaration of
Independence, before it was thought prudent to
come forward ; and then m soon as news of Bor--
goyne's fall reached Versailles—the moment we
were thought able to effect the business without
aid, in steps France !
We have been told a thousand times, that we
are, and eternally will be, deep in debt on the icore
of gratitude. From fejfifh principle France en
gaged in the war—so at least fays the historian.—
" The object was to depress England, and reduce
her to a power of thefecond order in the politiAl,
hierarchy of Europe.'> Here then i$ the original
(ourfc of our gratitude—lt seems very small indeed
—Our Democrats, however thinkotherwife—They
know better than the historian who declares, " the
f rencb people recollected the national indignities
which preceded the peace of 1763 —they evinced
an ardent thirfl for war, and were impelled by a
strong desire of revenge,"—No, fays the " Patri
•ts," it was not that—it was from a more magnan
imous principle—it was purely from her love to the
United States, that she commenced hoftilitics.
Though our privateers were pursued wiih as much
acrimony in Franceas they could have beeß in Eng
land, in wsß nothing—it happened only during I
that long period when, to u(e the words of Mr.
Gerard, they were maturely deliberating whether
to aid us for their own intcreft, or to alfift England
in repressing a spirit of refiftanee which is was ap
prehended might pervade their own colonies—Fin
ally, however, they decided ; and the grand con
dition, without which nothing courd be stipulated,
was, that America should never renounce her In
dependence. Indeed there was no great danger
of it.
The fact is, had the United States been expußg
ed from the Universe, it would have been no real
fubjeft of regret to Frenchmen, provided any eith
er means of reducing England to a fecendary rank
in the qolitical hierarchy of Europe had presented,
in order to raise France to the firft. In short the
whole bufineU from the beginning, the long and
mature deliberations, the final option a»d subsequent
.measures—all were ultimately decidcd ob the prin
ciple of national intereil and revenge; And here
we have the fyftcm «f our «blijjations concentered
to a point. \
Philadelphia,
TUESDAY EVENING, JANUARY 31, 1797.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
If the Communication relative to the " late precious confef
fions of a certain Col." is founded on fatt, it shall be pub
lished. We want evidence.
THE from a Charge of Judge Rush will appear
To-Morrow.
STOCKS.
Six per Cent. - .... 14/4*
Three per Cent. ...... . yjb
4 \ per Cent. .........
5{ p«r Cent. ..... ...
Deferrer! Six per Cent. .... 11/4
BANK United States, _ ... liperct
Psnnfylvania, .... 13 do.
North \meiica, .... 40 do.
Inftirance Comp. N. A. fharei, - 45 per et.
— Pennfylv. par.
COURSK OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days, 67, i-»
at 60 days, 60
at 90 days, 57 i-»
Amsterdam, 60 days, per guilder. 40
90 days, • 41
The ftiip Sedgley, Captain Hodge, on her voy
age fiem hence to Jamaica, was captured by a
French privateer, sent into the city of St. Domin
go, and her cargo condemned, a» appears by letters
from Capt. Hodge.
The following vessels, bound for Philadelphia, arri
ved at Charleston in didrefs.
Brig Fair Hebe, Eldridge, from Amsterdam,
out 74. days.
Brig Mary, Calender, from Cape-Francois, out
62 days.
Schooner Good Intent, Hathaway, St. Bartho
lomews, out 56 days.
Schooner Industry, Caine, from Jeremie, out 64
days.
Brig Anthony, Miller, from St. Thomas, out
31 days.
COMMUNICA 7 lONS.
Mr. Fenno,
IN looking over your pjper of Saturday last, I
observed that ene of Mr. Adet's complaints against i
the geyctHment of the United States, was the per- \
mining of the makers as almanacks tp print the :
name ot the BntiOi Minifttr before that of the
Plenipotentiary of the Terrible Republic.
This closed a lang lift of grievances, and as it was
the last i fuppofc was intended as the raoft impor
tant.
With considerable efforts of patience I had wa
ded through impudent and base attacks upon
the honor as our country, were answered with
the mod exemplary coolness and temper by our ex
ecutive, but at reading this molt ridiculous of all
psffibly ridiculous complaints, I could not refrain
from laughter—and I fuppefe if I had been placed
on the guillotine with the poor makers as almanacks
who committed the affence, it would have been the
fame thing.' If a minister of the United States
was ta offer such an objection in the name of our
country to a foreign nation, I (hould vote for his
recal, not that the liner (hould use his axe but his
rods, not to take off his head but to birch his bot
tom. It is to be sure a pleasant fight to behold the
Terrible Republic and her Tertible Mimllei,
mousing at almanacks and the printers of six
penny publications.
Mefftg. Ganet, Fauehet and Adet, have gradu
ally improved upon each other in their complaints.
The next agent of the Terrible Republic will
1 suppose date thenuMEßi, h irn books and gin-
GERBREAD'ALPHABtTs of oui children, as openly
menacing herdignity. Our alphabet still «enveys,
it mult be confeffed many veiy ami publican ideas.
The letter E which stands for England, precedes
the letter F which is the initial of Fiance, and
what is ft ill more dreadful and alarming, and per
fectly LIBERTICIBE in its nature, K which (lands
for King sr Kingdom, takes ptecedence by at lealt
fix letters of R the 'very firjl letter of the word
REPUBLIC. x CITIZEN.
P. S. I hope far God's fake Mr. Fenmi, if you
publish this, you will take fume efficacious
means to prevent it from coming to the eyes of the
Minister or Direftoryof the Terrible Republic
An attack from the French Aurora was to have
beerr expected upon the President on accoum of his
late valuable communication to Congress. The
Aurara thinks it is of an irritating tendency. In
fact the present temper of the nation, who have felt
more indignation than fear, refpe&ing the insolence
as demand contained in x M. Adet's nates, is in itfelf
a mcjl irritating thing, no doubt, to those whoex
pefted very different effe&i from M. Adet's appeal
to the people. In this appeal he brought forward
eimplaints which Genet and Fauehet had worn out,
and at which the people had silently laughed He
abused the Executive, and the two Houses of Con
gress—he hurled the charge of peifidy fully in the
teeth of the government of this country—not in an
official manner, but through the medium of the
papeis. To this insidious attempt to rouse the
people in his cause, there could be no anfwet to M.
Adet—bath becaufehe was precisely in the Ration
which Genet took, to whom no answer could be
given—and bccaufe by a hfpenfion of his futtftions
as minister, he was no longer in a capacity to re
ceivecommunications from the President. M. Adet
made choice as this mode of attaining his
the repeal of certain laws—the rcverfal of certain
judicial decifiors—and the annulling of the Britilh
treaty. The Executive had, it is true, been an
ticipated by the good sense of the people, in the
judgment which it became the nation to pass upon
this waßton violation as decency and of the fore-
I re, S n ty { yet surely M. Adet can have no reason to
complain, if after the President has communicated
his opinions upon this conduct and these 9omplaints
to Congress, Congress think proper to publilh the
whole of the communications, that their condim
ents, after having heard immediately from M. Adet,
hisjlatement of the cafe, may also hear the other fide.
It is not only an answer to M. Adet's complaints,
(hewing then perfectly groundless, but also a vitidi.
cat ion of a government to its condiments, to whom ,
it it reponfiblc for the fccuiity of national honor i
' fair conduct, ard the impartial cxecinion of its
treaties : doubtless <ts the vi -dicauon is complete,
it will irritate those to whom Jilence, though fome
tirnes complained of, would on this occation have
been very pleasing ; though certainly it could never
have been juftified to the people, \»ho three month*
" fmce were constituted an appellate tribunal, and
who wished to hear both fi<ses.
r EDENTON, January I z.
Address of the legifiature of the ftnte of North-
Carolina, to his excellency George Washington,
Esq. President of the United States.
The general assembly of North-Carolina, apprised
of your intention to retire from office, feel it a duty
for themselves and their constituents, to express the
t high sense they entertain of the vast advantages de
rived from your exertions, to the-caufe of the free
dom of America, and of mankind. To secure the
■ national bleflings ef peace and independence, to
rescue a people from slavery on the one hand, and
to guard them from anarchy and faction on thp
other, are the great objefls to which your effoiii
have been long, and fuccefsfully dire&cd, amidst
the perils of war and the cares of government, in
the most difficult, exalted and important Rations.
You have finifhed the taffc, and have amply dis
charged every claim of your country, to your fer
-1 vices and talents. We regret, however, that, your
fiim and experienced hand should, at thisjwnfit'ure,
! be withdrawn from the helm of affairs, after
you have devoted thebeft of your days to our felici.
ty, it ill becomes us '.o complain of a step, which
is necessary to your own. We therefore sincerely
1 congratulate you on the near profpefts of your re
turn to the leisure ef retirement arid the tranquility
of private life, which the voice and the diltrffesof
yoHr country fiift tempted you to foifake*
We consider your last address as,baving added to
the proofs of your patriotism, and to ihe debt of
gratitude and veneration, which we previously owed
you. It takes an affeSioilate and parental leave of
your fellow-citizens, its councils are dilated by
the deepest political wisdom, and its sentiments flow
from a heart replete with solicitude foi the welfare
of its country. And well may you be iaterefted in
I the happiness of a people, whose fate has long oeen
connected with your own, and in whose toils and
! perils, success and glory, you have so largely
(hared. , ' '
As to ourselves we devoutly wi(h that you may
long live to fee and to enjoy that na'ional profpr.ity
far which America is so much indebted to y«ur
ex-ertione. Retired from office, and di .tL of
pc.wer, you will Hill reign in the hearts ol your
fellow-citirens, and continue to receive a tribute of
applause from a grateful nation.
NEW-YORK, January 27.
Arrived at this Part. Dayt
Ship Matilda, Tombs, Chatlefton 10
Brig Mercury, Davidfon, d ( , IO
Elizabeth, Failler, Sr. Thomas
Schr. Regulator, Roberts, Aux Csyes 23
Frtm the Mercury's Log-Boot.
Jan. 19, saw the deck of a large vessel, witk
- two stumps of her malts (landing, off cape Hat eir*
in 20 fathoms water.
J 3 "' the (loop Eagle, Erel, from
Khode-ifland, 3 days out, in lat. 27, 6.
CHARLESTON, Jan. 12.
Yesterday arrived the fchooiier Success, Crofbv,
W ilmington, 2 ; fchr. Indulfry, came in dif
treis, bound to Philadelphia, from Jeremie, out 64
davs; brig Elizabeth, Ewing, Boston, 14 d*ys ;
snip Statira, Seaward, Portsmouth, 17 days ; brig
Fanny, Newell, Havanna, 13 days; (hip Julius-
Pringle, Miller, Leith, 86 day, ; brig Catawba,
Booth, St._ 1 homas's, 20 days, bound to New-
York, in distress.
Fourteen passengers came in the Juliur Pringle,
from Leith. 0
Extradl from the log book of the Genoese brig
Eydia, eSptain Caftrena, which arrived on Mon
day, in Rebellion Road, from Cadiz.
" On tlie 26:h of December, in lat. 32, long.
7», (poke the brig Sarah, captain John M'Allif
tu, nam Africa, bound to Savannah, 149 days out,
had loft her rudder, and was very short ofprovifi
???„ rupplicd hsr w 'th what we could spare. Capt..
M Milliter left Africa with 75 Oaves ; had loft 30
of them, and the remainder were in a distressed fitu
atioru He attempted to keep company with us,
but owing to the loss of his rudder, he could not
keep the lanie conrfe.
On Saturday night last the brig Patty Went-"*
worth, capt. Cooper, from Lisbon, with fait and
wice, belonging and bound for Norfolk, wat
cast away on North liland, near the entrance of
yeorge-town harbour ; (he was 70 out, meet
ing with contrary winds, bad weather, and being
very leaky, the captain was compelled to steer f©r
this port, but unfortunately on his way he met with
this disaster. The wine it was supposed would be
saved, thfc vessel entirely loft.
Died, very suddenly, on the 31ft of December
» at ,he plantation of Mr. Alexander R. Chif
olm, near Beaufort, where he was buried, Mr.
Pierce, aged 53 years. The inhabitants of S.
Carolina, but particularly the caltivators ef cotton,
have to lament the loss of this most ufoful and e*.
traordinary mechanical genius—Mr. Pierce arri
ved not long since from the Paterfon Cotton Ma
nufactory, in N. Jersey, and had very nearly com
pleated a mod altonifhing Water Machine, for gin
ning, spinning, and weaving of cotton, which he
had brought to such perf-aion, as led him to con
ceive he would obtain the very high premium offer
ed by the English East-India company for the best
model of a machine for the ginning of that article.
r STOCK BRIDGE, January 33.
It is true that Mr. Jrfferfon has written to Mr. •
Madison, requeuing him, (forreafons which he de
tails,) if there fljmild be an equal vote between Mr.
Adams and himfelf, to withdraw his (Mr./JefFer
fon's) pretensions. Mr. Madison wa« applied to
for a copy of the letter, for the pref, ; hr ihowed
the original—but said, that as Mr. Adams was
chosen, he thought it improper now to piint the
letter ?CONGRESSDF the UNITED STATES.
HOUSE or REPRBSF.NTATIVKS.
Monday, January 9.
Mr. Dearborn, from the committee to whom it
was referred to enquire whether any and what altera
tions ought to b<- made by law in the cornpenfation of
the officers of the United States, reported it as their
Opinion, that the fahries of the secretary of war and
attorney-general Ihyuld be augmented 500 dollars, and
that tile faianes of the feeretaty of ftste, secretary of
the treasury, fecretiry of war, attorney general, poft
m> er-jtneral, treasurer, comptroller of the treasury,
commiliioner of the revenue, auditor, regiller, affift
«nt poit-mafter, and keeper of military stores ihoul 1
be increaled 1 j per cent They also recommend that
the ail for regulating the compensations allowed to
clerks in public offices, pafiitd latt session, Ihould be
continued for ,he year 1/97, and no longer ; and also
that an additional compenfatio should be allowed to
the loan officers of iVlalfachufeets and New-York, of
35T dollars, and joadollars to be diftributtd amongst
the clerks in each office; and that the Turn of 120
dollars be allowed amongst the clerks in the loan-office
nf Pennsylvania for the pr. sent year. This report was
twice readj order d to be committed to a' committee
of the whole, and made the order for Thurfda,y.
Mr. Dearborn, from the committee to whom was
recommitted the bill for eftablilhing an uniform miliiia
system thioughout the United States, reported a new
bill, which was twice read, committed to a committee
of the whole, and made the order for Friday
Mr. Swanwick, f-om the committee of commerce
and manufa&ures, reported a Bill for licerifiiig pilots
in the states of Virginia and Maryland, witaun the
waters of those states It was read a second time,
committed to a committee of the whole, and made
the order for Friday-
A nieflage in writing was received from the Presi
dent of the United States, which the lpeaker having
opened, he declared to be ol a confidential nature, and
that, therefore, the house and galleries mutt be cleared
of all but the members and the clerk. It was cleared
accordingly.
After the doors had been closed little more than half
an hour, they were again thrown open, and
Mr. Dwight ivdter, from the committee of claim ,
made a report on the petition of William Alexander,
appointed a surveyor of army lands, in pursuance of
an order Die July 9, 1788, which was in favor of the
petitioner. It was referred to a committee of the
Vhole,' and made the order for to morrow.
Mr. Swanwick, from the committee of commerce
and manufailures, made a report on the petitions of
Richard R. Saltouftall, J;ieob Broom, Robert Dawfon,
William Crawley Jordan, John Nieholfon, and the
proprietors ol the glass irAnufcidlory of Boston, and
lundry hat manufacturers in the United States.
idr.Saaonllall had formerly obtained a patent for
fecunng to him an improved use of Sumac ; and com
plained that he had been disturbed in his right by o
thers who pietended that his discovery had been made
in other countries before he obtained his patent: he
prayed lor l'eeuriiy in the enjoyment of his patent, or
cornpenfation lor his expencet. the committee re
ported that a court ot law was the proper tribunal for
anappeal, and refolvtd that the prayer of the petition
er could not be granted.
Jacob Broom is the proprietor of a cotton mill on
Brandy wine cieek. He prays that the duty on raw
•otton may be repealed, and that an additional duty
may be laid on cotton goods imported.—The commit
tee report, that to repeal the duty on raw cotton im
ported, wsnld be to damp the growth of cotton in
our own country, and that imported cotton goods al
ready paying a duty of ii i-i per cent. *he tax was
fufficiently high to allow ample roo d for competition.
The petition was therefore not g'auted.
Robert Dawfon is a manufacturer of bolting cloths
at Wilmington' He prays for a repeal ot the duty
on raw (ilk, in or. to aid his manufa<sfory, the pro
duce of which he lays is superior to any imported.
The committee report, that the superior quality of
thele boultmg cloths lufficient to recommend them
—Without embarrassing the revenue, by a repeal of
the present duty. The petitioaer had leave to with
draw his petition.
William Crawley Jordan is a silk manufacturer, who
is delirous of eliablifhing a (ilk manufatflory in this
country, and prays Congress to alffiil him with some
addition to his capital. Ihe committee reported, that
if our finances were in a ltate to encoarage a scheme
of this fort, they (hould very much doubt of its suc
cess from the high price of labor. This petition was
also d'figreed So.
John Nieholfon, of this ci'.y, and the proprietors of
the glass manufactory at Boston, pray their manufac
tories may be encouraged by an additional duty on
glass i piported. The committee report it as their opi-
high price of labor, which time only
coultrcure, was a greater obftaele to their manufactory
than the duty, and that there (ore the prayer
petitioners paght not to be granted.
Sundry manufacturers of hats, in the United States,
prjy for an encreafe /it duty on hats, for the encou
ragement of their manufactory. The committees opi
n on upon this petition was the fame as upon the lalt,
and it wis of o.urfe difagieed to
The reports were twice read, and the house concur
red in them.
Mr. W. Smith called for the order of the day on
the report of the committee of ways and means, to
whom it was referred to take into confederation the
fubjeCf cis- further revenue*, and the provitons requi
site for improving and more effectually fceuring the
internal revenues, which being agreed to, the house
resolved itfelf into a committee ot the whole, and the
following resolution was brought under consideration :
•' Resolved, that it mill be expedient to abolilb the
tax laid on spirits distilled from materials of the growth
.or produ.c of the United State*, at any other place
than a city, town or village, at which there shall be
one «r more Kills, which, fiugly, it only one, or to
gether, if more than one, (hall be of less tapaaity than
four hundred gallons ; and to colleCt this branch of
the revenue from a tax on t.he capacity of the flills."
Mr. Macon said, it appeared to him that this pro-
Yifion would havs the effeCt to destroy all the small
stills in the country, ond to establish large distilleries.
In the country, where fruit was generally distilled,
this would be a great inconvenience, as it was neces
sary to be dene immediately. He believed the system
was going on pretty well at present, and he thought
it unneccfiary to make any change in it.
Mr. Hcndcrfon hoped the resolution before them
would not be agreed to. He believed it would operate
< against many o( the small stills. Perhaps, indeed,
this was the meaning of it; for, if he remembered
r.ghtly, a gentleman from South-Carolina ( Mr. Har
per) on a former ocCalion, had expreded a wi(h that
(mall stills might be annihilated, and large distilleries
erected. With respeCt to New-Jersey, Mr H. said,
the article i>f cyder was mostly distilled. ~Jt was diffi
cult to carsy this to a distance, and therefore the nnm
bet- of small stills was very confidei able ; but, should
this refoiutioa be carried, it would fabjeCt them to
great difficulties, and, in many instanceS, amount to
a prohibition from distilling at all. He believed the
fyftitn at present was pretty generally fatiifaCtory.
NV. Calbiin (aid both .the gentleman from North-fSroll
na and from N w-J>*rfey. seemed to be certain that the plan
prop >fed would have the ess & to destroy final! Hills, and
from thence derived therr objections to it. He wtfhed they
Ibew how this ould b? done. He believed the law
might lo be carried into eftefi, but he also believat that it
might be so artanged as to avoid it
Gintlrmeu had laid that the present fyilem wis very well.
He would fay it was not so. ft was unproductive. Theex
penfe of collection upon that part of the Revenue which was
drawn from Ipiuts distilled in the country on domeltic ma
terials et.ft from 32 to 33 percent colle&i g. What the net
amount ot the duty was, he did not recollect ; he beiiev d
it was from to 209,030 dollars per annum* It was
clear, he said, that the moment a direct tax was laid upon the
Itil: inttead of the foirits, two thirds of the expense of col
lection would be got.nd of; all that was neceflary being, to
meaiurethe ltill, instead of having an officer to watch the o
peratioris oh the diltiller. H re, he (aid, fraitd* could not
be ' afily commftcd. Nothing was ueceflarv to be known
hut whether a matKdiftil led or not ; if h, distilled without a
licence, he would he liab e to a penalty, and this was all the
, fraud which could he pra&ifed
Another great obje£tion to the present fyltem, Mr.G. said,
was. that it gave g'ea advantages (o the unfair trader over
him who traded fairly, Some wste advantaged through ig
norance, and some through deflgu ; an oath, he said, would
bind fomemen, but not all. This wouH be altogether pre
vented by the.plan proposed.—Every (nan would stand upon
the fame gt und
li was true, and it was the only objection that could be
made to it, that it an equal tax was laid upon the capacities
ol all stills, there would be an advantage in favor of large
(tills: beeaufe upon larre stills, large capitals would be em
ployed, and they womld be wo>lced throughout the whole
year ; but. in order toremme this objection, he thought a
certain scale (hould be formed, in order to proportion the
duty according to the lire of .the (till He was of opinion,
that this single provision would remove all objections. If
the resolution was agrred to it would of course be referred
back, to bring in a biil, and then it would be fren whether
this evil could riot" be remedied in the wav mentioned. All
the revenue officers, Mr. G. said, were agreed as to the pro-
of thismeafure
Mr. Dayton lard at (liftthe repyrt appeared to him in an
unfav table light. He fe/red it would have the effeCt nor
was the fear an unreafon'b<e me, to tpjure small stills; but
he now saw it pnflible to prevent their injury, and even to
prot-eft :hem. He tliought there was a regulation of grea'er
importance than the <>ne mentioned by the gentleman last up ;
he thought unail Hills (hou'd have the privilege of taking ont
licfenfea for a shorter time than a year. Foreseeing that the
House wou d have an entire controul over the bufiueli, when
it cami before tnem in the form of a bill, he did not mean
to oivpale it 111 this ttage.
he Resolution was agreed to ; the Committee rose ; the
House concurred in it. and it was referred to the compiittee
of ways and means, to bring in »>bl!l.
BOS 1 ON, January 2.3.
£The following corHmeruel communications are
important ; we tender our thanks to the gentle
men whd were ki;id enough to fend them to our
prefi. ( Bojlan Price Current.)
Ext raft of a fetterft em a refpeSlalle Mercantile Bouse
in Cadiz, to thur ij.arrejpondent here, of Septem
ber 28, 1796.
" Our late harvest of Wheat, has proved very
scanty, much less than last yearj and in corife
quirnce, I am of opinion, we shall tequire a good
deal of foreign supplies this winter and next fpting,
when of course the price null rife in proportion
to our wants. This event must also enhance the
value of si ur ere long. At present, American
Wheat would fetch here from 62 to 64 is per fa
neg, en board, and Flour from that qu rter if.
felling itvthis Bay, at (8 to 19 current dollars pet
barrel, and hut little on hand.
" Rice has become very scarce of late, and
been fold these few d ys pall at the fine price of
9 I 2to 10 dollatsper quintal; but .owards the
evd of the year, and lent time, I think it will be
worth even more.
Notwithltanding the many cargoes of staves arri
ved here within these few months hack, the entire
have been bought up at 140 to 150 dollars per long
houfand on board, as in quality, for the the
hogshead and barrel staves in proportion, even so
• igh as 70 dollars have been paid for the latter, the
exportation of our win* in qr. caflcs being vctycon
fiderable, and said prices all likely te be supported
the demand being very great throughout the kiug
dom.
" Your whit# beans are worth here at present
from 8 to 9 dollars per fa k of 200lbs. on btiard,
and 'he black eye'd fiom 4 to J dollars ; but aj we
expect little er no supplies his year from Holland,
; the price will certainly rife as we approach !c;nt,
when the consumption of these pronlion articles,
and Roe is greatest.
" As to Indian Corn.l can't positively fay how
it may answer here, towarlo Chrillmas, when it
was formerly much demanded foi the fatting of
Swine in this place, but these two years pall we
have had but very little at Niaiket.
" Bees wax, of the tine yellow fort, is a choice
article here, and meets a quick vent, at 7® to 71
dollars per quintal on (hore.
" The war will put a total stop to our usual
supplies of Cod Fish from Newfoundland, which
consequently would favor much t|ie sale of New.
England Fish, at this market j it will also contri
bute to enhance the pi ice of Wheat, Fit ur, Rice,
&c. here ; this event max also cause a demand for
Salt Beef and Pol k, but these in general are moll
precarious at tides here, and seldom turn to advan
tagf- |
P. S. Our White Salt might now be had here
for 6 dollars per last of two tons, put on board. .
Holland proof Brandy, at 114 to 116 dollars
j per pipe.
Oil-proof, at 148 to 140 dolls, f. pipe.
PRICES CADIZ,
Sept. 14, 1796.
AMHK.It AN Pro»VCE.
Dolls. CtS.
Beef, bbl. - - 20 50
Beans, white kidney, 20«lb. (5 25
Butter, lb. 29
Cod Fish, - - 6 75
Flour, super. v . IO 50
Grain, wheat, fan, - 2 5°
1 , barley, do. - 2
-, corn, do. . 2
Hams, lb. . "35
Hogs Lard, - -45
Pilch, ... 6
Rise, io2lb. - 6
Rosin, - g
Staves, pipe, . t 90 75
, -fifed. _ . 60
. bbl. , . 49 75*
Tar, . . 4 30
BeesWax, quint.'' . 45
Whali Bone, - "9?
Pork, ' 26 50
Spanish Pkoduci.
Almonds, without (hell, quid. 18
Anchoives, ke_g, - j
Brandy, Hall, proof. - 50 jj '
Oil, do. . - llj
Figs, quins. ... 3
Lemois, box, • ' - . 2 40
Olives, jar, . 50
Raisins, keg, - • r 7
. j >"» - 2
•, box, . 3
Salt, last. - . 4 52
Saffron, lb. - 7
Castile Soap, quint. - Ij 16
S'arch, lb. - » 10
Vinegar Wine, 4 1-2 galls. I
Vermicali, lb. - - 10
Wine, Sherry, Am. mark.7
qr. cask. } 11
——, Malaga, I 5
, Catalooa, red, pipe, 37 66
Dimeofions of lumber fit for this market :
Pine boards, from 24 to 36 feet long, and
2, 3, 3 1-2, 4, 5, 6 inches thick, and to wide ;
do. 12 fee long, 12 inches wide, 1, i-j thick;
malls, spars, See. &c. for building ships ; beams
of all kinds ; Itcanijliiig from 4 by j, to 6 by 8.
Couk.se »f Exchange.
London 30 Amsterdam 78
Genoa 154 Hamburg 68
Paris 13 10
The following articles, viz. Indigo, Cochinel-
U, Coffee, Cottoo, Cinnamon, Elephant' 6 Teeth,
Nutmegs, Pepper, Pale Batk, Red, do. Sugars
are extremely high at present, withuut,. buyers or
fellers, on account of our political Hate with
England. 4,
By this day's Mail.
BALTIMORE, January 27.
LjUteJi Foreign Intelligence.
Trantlatedfor the Maryland Journal.
From German papers, received yelter Jay by the
ship Anthony Mangin, Capt. Sanford, from Bre
men, and which were kindly handed to us by a
gentleman of this City.
TURIN, OftoHer 20.
The death of the King of Sardinia, occasioned a
quite different fyllem in our states ; it was hardly
Known to the nation, when the peasantry in Pied
mont, opposed by force of arms, the paflage of a
French body of troops, and the government has
hitherto done nothing in this cafc.
LONDON, November 11.
Sir Sidney Smith continues a prrfoner in the
Abbay at Paris. ,It is said our ambiffsdor has or
ders to negociate his release.
A very considerable fleet, it is said, will fai
ftiortly to Gibraltar, wtth a of troops
and provilion. Lord Howe it is said will have the
command.
An aim"y of men 50,000 are to march immedi
ately to the sea eoaft of the counties of Cork and
Derry, to protect the south coalt of Ireland.
The mofl prcffirig orders have been lent to-Portf
mouth and Plymouth to'get all the ftiips in those
ports ready as soon as pofliblc.
SfRASBURG, November 4.
The general head quarters are (till at Schiltig
heim. General Defaix is It ill on the Ifiauc! *>f
Rhine : his bead-qu triers are at RuprechfUu. I i
Kehl nothing has place yet. It is uncertain
when the hard battle, for whiih both parties pre
pare tbemfelvss by this fortref*, will take place ;
the mod formidable meaftjres for a-fortunate issue
have been taken on both fides : the whole viilzge of
Kehl is getting demolished by the tcpuWicans ; and
a builJit.g at some diltasce is bnrnt down to clear
the front. The Auftnins have on their fide, demol
ifiied Neumuhl aad Kork, or turned them into
barracks. Otlr truops have inverted Specierback
and the city of Speier.
K A RLSRUHE, November 7.
Aliriott every day Imperial troops,' as well caval
ry as infantiy, rtjsrcb through our city and neigh
bourhood, with much artillery, partly down the
Rkine, and parly to Kehl ;"the formal invellment
of which is (horily to commence, while the fiifl
parallel is ready ; and the trenches will be opened
this day. A large ttanfport of heavy aitillcry fat
off from hence for that purpose. Lait Friday after
j noon, we hea rd here from thence, a very heavy
but thort cannonade ; afterwards we heard, that
the French had made a sortie with a fupeiior force,
chiefly of cavalry, upon the weakest advanced pnfts
of the Auftrians, near Neumuhl, and had drove
them back at feme distance, whereby some lives
were loft on both fides, whereupon the French bad
returned, and the again entered in their
former position.
MANHEIM, November 8.
Yesterday the French approached with some
thousands strong, ur.der favour of a thick mill, the
| environs of Mutterfladt and Rheingenheim. It
came to a cannonade and skirmishes that lasted till
midday. At Mutterlladt the enemy had taken poil,
but in the evening withdrew themselves.
Agreeably to information from Offenburg, where his
royii highness the archduke ftili remains, tue bombard
naent of Kehl was to have begun this day or to-morrow.
The printers of the Federal Gazette were yefterdiy
favored with a nurpber of Hamburg papers to
the 18th November, brought by th; Anthony
Mangin. The following, from an hafly perusal,
appear to be the mofl prominent articles:
That the imperialists were making the most
vigorous preparations to bombard Huningen, and
to demolish all the fortifications at that place
That the Auftrians had approached so near to
Kehl withthsir batteries as not only to-fire into the
town, but alfointo the fortifications of the bridge
and on the bridge itfelf j and that the inhabitants
of Kehl had received orders to remove with their
effects t» Stmftjurg, as that place would be demol
i!hed—That the head-quarers of the arch-duke
Charles were at Offenberg—That it was reported
a cejfation ef arms was about to take place between
•the imperialists and French, on the' Rhine, that
during the armistice a treaty of peace would be set on
foot, and that a nimber of couriers were going
backwards and forwards between Paris and Vienna.
On the 16th infta it, off Cape-Henry, the An
thony Mangin, captain Stanford, was brpright to
by the British frigate 1 hetis, captain Cochran,
who very; politely made an offer to captain S. of
provisions, water and every other article he mfnVt
(land in need of. When captain Stanford left
Bremen, the result of lord Malmeftmry's embafly
was not kn«wn, but the general opinion was, that
no peace between England and France would take
place thi* year.
Extract of a lettei from the captain of a veflel now
at Cape Ni'chola Mole, to his owner in this city,
dared December 11.
" I artived here the 17th instant, and finding
no established convoy from hence, either to St.
Mark's, -L'Archaye <:r Port-au Prince, I engaged
a private convoy, by paying 100 dollars, which 1
thought it molt tot your interclt to give, and wai
to have failed the evening of the 2«th, but on the
evening of the fame day, 1 had two of my men
prefTed on board a man of war lying in this port, by
which means have loft my convoy. I have been
Hfing every means to have my mm libetated, but
all to no effeit. I now watt (like many otheis of
my American brethre ) for a cpnvoy, as it feemi
there is no paffibility of getting into ;he bite with
out one.
" The above veflel was navigated with five
hands."
The brig Maria Willmans is arrived at Annapolis
PROVIDENCE, January 12.
Extract of a letter frorrfCupenhayenj to a gentle
man in this town, dated October 5.'
" Onr government have lately palled a refutation,
permitting American veflrls to bring India good*
to this mark t, direst fmm any port in the Eatt-
Indies, China excepteH, on tlic fame footing in all
refpe&s as Darifh ships. We expeift this measure
will give ouj' friends in Ameiica a good opgortu
pity of exterdirg tleir India trade."
The fl.ip Liberty, captain John Arnold, from
Copenhagen, in arrived at Newport.
NORFOLK, January 21.
On Thurfdiy arrived thef«.h»o»er Citizen, cap
tain Gilbert, in 17 days from Guadaloupe. This
vefTel was captured en her pafTage from Norfolk to
Martinique with an aflorted cargo, and cariicd into
Point Petre, Guadaloupe, where the cargo was ta
ken (at their own prices) for the use of the French
republic, and a bill given on the at Paris,
at 6 months fight, for the amonnt. Ca'pt. Gilbert
informs, that the executive Jireftory have ordered
the capture of all Americans hound to or from Bri
tilh p.iris. Capt. G. also infoffoisthat Vi£t t>r Ha.
goes hid otdered the cap'ure of all Americans
bound to a neutral port, found within 3 leagues of
an English iflai d There were ten vrflels captur
ed and condemned under the above orders ; among
whom were the copper bottomed, schooner Argu*
of Baltimore, a'nd the brig , of Alexandria,
r c rmeily of Salem. The reason of the fchr Citi
zen being cleared was, becamfe (he was captured
previous to ifTuirg the otdtrs of the directory.
NEW-YORK, J» nuiry 30.
We learn that Gen. Schuyler is chosen with
(rreat u animity i» both houses, a Senator in the
place of Col. Burr.
yi rrivals at New Tori, Days.
Ship Joseph, Felt, Dublin 69
Fame, Abner, Port-au Prime 23
Brig Mercury, Davidfon, Cbailetton 10
Schr. Polly, Wilson, Noah-Carolina io
Sloop Fortitude, Ballard, Norfolk 3
The brig Wcftmoreland, Troup matter, of this
port, was captured off the Havannah, by a French
privateer, and sent for New-o'!eans.
Arrived at Newbury pit, brig Betsey, Captain
Jenkins, 66 days from Newdieppe. mouth of the
Texel. Dec. 23, lit. 40, 43, long 63, 42, Tpoke
brig Someriet, Nicholfon, fr m this port foi Ham
burgh, 7 days out, had a feverc gale, loft his wa
ter, and every thing off deck but his boat. The
Three Friendp, Leeds Packe , and Minerva, oft.iis
port, lay at Newdieppe, when capt. Jenkibs failed.
Captain White of the brig Betsey, on the 13th
ult. was spoke by capt. Millei of the f]«op Nancy,
who said his vellel had fptung a leak, and wished
h;'m to take himfelf and crew on board the Bet
sey, which capt. White did ; and concluding that
the (loop would fhorily go down, they proceeded
on their voyage. Two hours after the (loop's be
ing abandoned, she appeared lively. Capt. White
doubted her being pall saving ; captain Miller said
she would soon fink. Notwithstanding, capt. White
encouraged thiee of his men, viz. Wm. Ventin,
John Goodwin, and Matthew Logan, to go on
board, they did so, accompanied by Capt. Miller.
In 1J minutes after boarding her, they freed her,
gut under fail, and kept company with the brig 5
or 6 days, and arrived fafe at Norfolk The sloop
is left in charge of Mr. Dow, late mate of the
Betsey.
The above was handed us by a gentleman of this
city. We have not been fa particular\n the detail,
as our correspondent, the fads onlyare (imply stated
The Lyceum, for free Debate,
ON WEDNESDAY, February 1,
Will be debated,
14 Ought a Representative in a Republican
"Government to act on important measures
" FROM THE RESULT OF Hit OWN JUDGMENT OR FROsts
14 THE WrtL OF HIS CONSTITUENTS LECALLY EXPRESS
-11 ED ?
FOR SALM AT WILLIAM PRIEST MAN* s"~
No. 15 south Fifth street,
Between Market and Chefnu
A Quantity of Plain Gold Watch-s ; Gold enamtl'd ft
ornamented with pearls ; Silver and metal ditto, by
the firfl makers in London and Paris ; a I ime-Piece
by Arnold; plain gold by Mudge fct* Dutton ; several
diamond and diamond Us pea'l locket , ring«, ear-rings,
&c; about io lb. of Scotch thread; double-barrel'd guns,
in cafe, by Manton ; quantity of plated table, tea, and
night plated candlcfticks, branches, &c. 46 volumes of
Law-Books, in one lot, mnfrly reports, folia, force and
valuable books j books of Prints ; —amomrft which are
Martyn on Shells, Statue da Roifi, Calmet's Dieronnaire
de Bible, Jchnfun's Poets, 75 vol*. Balke; ville's Addifon,
4. vols. Biographia Britannica, Op. re de Machiavelli,
Ruins of Balbee, Blair's Chronology Plinii Hiftonca Na
turalis, Montfaucon's Antiquities, State Trials; Evelyn's
Silva, Pottlewayte's Dictionary, Rittrattii duonjini illuf.
triTofcani, Ouevres de Bayle, Carscci.
January 31 5For Sale,
At the Office'of the £d tor of the Gazette of the
United States,
A FEW COPIES OF
" An account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States, for the year 1795."
January 28, 1797.
LANDS'FOR SALE.
TO be fold by Public Auction, on Weclnefday the
ift day of February next, at the Merchant's
Coffee-houfe, in the city ©f Philadelphia, at 6 o'clock
in the evening, sundry Tra6ls of Land, being part of
the eitate of Benjamin Town, late of New-Jersey, de
ceased, viz.—
Two tratSU, one of 315 1-4 and the other 30s 1-4
acres, in the township of Wyoming, county of Nor
thumberland, and state of Pennsylvania, conveyed by
tired, dated 17th September., 1782, from Aaron Levy
and wife, to Benjamin Town.
One trail of 311 acres, on the dividing of Mahoning
and Fjftiing creeks, in the county aforefaid, granted to
Benjamin Town, by warrant, 28th Februnry, 1775.
One trail of 150 acres, near or adjoining the last
mentioned trail. in the fame county, granted to Ben
jamin Town, by warrant, aßth February, 1775.
One trail of 300 acres, on a small branch of Jacob's
creek, in the county of Weftmoreland, state of Penn
sylvania, conveyed by deed, dated icth Febtoary,
1782, by William Perry to Benjamin Town.
Ten trails of 1000 aeres each, »n the waters of
Little Kenhawa river and Big Steer creek, in thecoun
ty of Moiiongaha'ia, state of Virginia, per patent, dated
leth July, 1786.
Further particulars and terms of payment will be
made known at the time and place of lale.
JOHN FIELD, ? Xruft£es
CURTIS CLAY,] Arull£es "
Philadelphia, January 38, 1797. 4'
Notice to the Poor.
THE Guardians of the Poor will deliver bread to the
Poor of the City and Liberties of Philadelphia, oil
Tuesday the 31ft instant, at Friends' Meeting-house,
at the corner of and Second streets, between the
hours of ten and twelve, agreeably to the last wills of
Jonathan Petty and William Carter, deceased.
January 28, 1797. 3t
SWAN N'S
Riding School, Horse Academy & Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his sincere thanks tothofe gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, during his residence in this City, and
flattershimfelf that the success of his effoits, in the numerous,
obstinate and dangerous diseases in Horses, in which he has
been consulted, together with his moderate charges, will fe
ure their future favors and recommendation.
He now begs leave tr» inform them and the public at large
that his spacious and commodious premises, eredfced for the
purposes above described arc open for the reception of pupils
of either sex, who wifhto beinttruited in the Art $f Riding*,
and the tight method of governing their horses, so as to ride
them with ease, elegance, and fafety—their horses will be
carefully and expeditioufly broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient tot he of the riders ; the natural powers
which arc (hut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all those beauties of a&ion which providence has so bounti
fully bellowed on them. *
Also, at his every disorder to which the horse is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the 4 above institution has never been qneftioo
od, that it has long been wanted in this city, every gentleman's
fiud willmanifeft, and T. Swann as the firft eftablifher of
the veterenary art, solicits a®d relies upon the fuppoit of that
public (which he iaever anxious in serving) to enable him to
Dringit to pcrfe&ion. The idea of a fub'.cription for fhat
purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who wish to
promote the inititution —the amount of each fubfeription to
be returned by services in any of the departments.he profeffes,
agreeable to the rate of charges dated in his hand bill. Such
lubfeription is now open, and the fignaturcs of many refpett
able gentlemen alieady obtained. He therefore injorms his
friends and fui h Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the hoijor of being known, that he shall in a few days take
the liberty of waiting upon them and folisuing their support
and protection.
N B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladies and
Gentlemenwho wifli to be inftru&ed.
Nov. 5. Ith&f.
New-Theatre.
THE Managers, (who have been accuflomed uniform
ly to consult and adopt the public •pinion, as well
from motives of gratitude as metered) understand that it
is generally thought that the price of admission into the
PIT, has been raised difproportionally to the prices of ad*
million into the other parts of the Thteatre. and therefore
do not hditateto reduce the price of a Pit ticket to seven
eighths of a dollar.
it is not to be cqncealed, however, that in making this
facrifice, the Managers risk conliderable pecuniary em
barrassments ; but it is feme consolation that while they ac
cede to the prefect redudi®n, they have reason' to believe
themfcives juftified by the prevailing sentiments, in con
tinuing the advanced price of tbc box tickets, without
which if would indeed be imp'ra&icable to<on'du& the en
tertainment® of the Theatre on a scale adequate to the
public eXpe&ation, confident with their ideas of duty
and refpc#: to a community ©n whose liberality they must
ever depend, and by whose taste they are proved to be re
gulated. January 30 3t
WANTS A PLACE,
YOUNG MAN from England—Has lived as a Ser-
JlSl vant,can lhave aed drefshair in a plain way ; would
have no objection to go to any part of the world. He
fpealpi three languages would engage in any other em
ployment he might be capable of. A lipe left at No. 69
iouth Front-street, or with the Printer, will be duly at
tended to. January 30 3t '
PRINTERS
Who have inserted A«tverti£&Mcnts at the request of the
Editor of this Paper, a*e desired to forward their accounts.
Jannar.y 30 *1 §6t i
— 1 i
WATCH LOST.
LOST, on monday last, a fiber stop Watch, makers'
Hauxhurft andJDoult, New-York, 809",
on the face, hour hand in a small circle ; the minuU-hand
revolving in a larger. Whoever has found, and will re
turn the fame to James E-dger, corner of Second and
Catherine Streets, ihail receive I© Dollar s reward. If of
fered for sale it is requeiled it may be stopped.
January 30 4*
NOTE FOUND.
Some time back was found a Note of mr John Nichol
fon, in favor of and indorsed by . The
owner, describing the amount, &c may have it again by
paying the expeufe ok this advertisement -Apply to
JOHN FLINT,
Coachir.fiker, a*© Arch-Street.
January 30
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & ad proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different flies
Hazlenuts, infatks
Whiting
wET„d
& Spanish Brown J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
Houses and Lots for sale,
BY the Subscriber, in the town of West-Chester, Ches
ter county, 25 miles from Philadelphia, on the great
state-road, leading Weft ward Viz? No. 1. A two-story
Stone House, the corner of High and Gay-streets, 40 feet
front by 34 feel deep, including a k very convenient flore
houfe : the House contains ten well-finifhed rooms, a kit
chen and entry : the Lot is 144 feet front on Gay-street-,
—equal to any stand in West-Chester. No. 2. A two-sto
ry stone house adjoining, 27 feet front, containing eleven
well-finiflied rooms, both being ceiled in the garrets, house
and lot fame depth as the other, a kitchen, &c.—ysellaf's
under both houses, with good stables on the lots. These
Houses are almost new, done by good workmen, in a
masterly manner. No. 3. a Lot 42 feet front. No. 4,
34 feet. No- 5, 44 feet. No. 6, 129 feet, all of them
ten rods deep. On two of the above are ere<sted three log
and frame houses, two stories high, cellars under the
whole, and a small liable to each*
The above Lots are situated near the Court-Houfe. The
whole will be exposed to PUBLIC SALE, on the 21ft and
22d days of February next, at two o'clock, when the con
ditions will be made known Poffeflion may be had the
firft of April next. The Title is iridifputable.
JOHN KINNARD.
January 28
brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Thirei foreetvoppofite the national new
QAMUEL M FR aUNOES and JOHN
O have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of
FROUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Conimiflio* merchants. They bay and
fell on commiflion every species of ilock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. f all kinds cI
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
rnoft correal manner. Constant attendance will be given.
They solicit a share of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmost secrecy ebferved.
SAMUEL M.FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
Phflad. August 2;, 1796. m&wtf
For Sale
By private conlrad, a very valuable EJlate, known by
the name ef
CHATHAM,
MOST delightfully situated on the north bank ofßap
pahanock river, opposite the town of Frederickfburg, in
the state of Virginia, consisting of eleven or fifteen hun
dred acres, as may best suit the purchaser. There is on
this estate, a large and well built brick house, containng
nine commodious rooms, exclusive of a spacious hall or en
try, 22 feet fyvarc, two pair of flairs, suitable and conven
ient pillages, and excellent dry cellars. It is placed on a
fine healthy eminence, commanding beautiful views in
every direction over the towns of Fredericklburgh and
Falmouth, and an extensive tqjtivated country.—The
grounds adjoining the house are Neatly laid out in pleas
ure und kitchen gardens intcrfperfed with a variety of
scarce trees, a choice colle&ion of flowers aHd flowenng
flirubs, and enriched by various forts of the following
fruits, viz apples, pears, walnuts, chefnuts,eherries,peach
es, plumbs, nc&arines, apricots, grapes, figs, rafberrfes,
goofeberries,ftrawberries,and currants; the whole admi
rably varied by turfed slopes which have been formed by
great labour and cxpence. Bordering upon these im
provements, are'feveral lots, in a highftate of cultivation,
and well set with red clover and orchard grass, from
which three heavy erops of hay are taken every year. Ad
jacent thereto are two large and flourifhing orchards ; one
of well chosen peach trees, the other of apple and pear,
trees, fele&edfrom the belt nurseries in the state. Pro
perly detached from the mansion house are extensive
roomy office* of every denomination, viz. a Kitchen and
Larder, house-keeper's room and Laundry, with a cellar
underneath for a variety of purposes, a store-bouse and
smoke house all of brick, a dairy and spring house of stone.
Stables for thirty horfesy and coaeh houses for four car
riages. Also a large and well planned farm yard, v ith
barn and granary, a cow house, with separate stalls for
thirty-fix grown cattle; apartments for fattening veals,
muttons anu lambs ; extensive sheds for Iheep, and other
arrangements for stock of every description, with a large
and convenient receptable for provender, from which they
can be furnifhed without being exposed to the inclemency
of the weather. An overseer's house, blacksmith's shop,
and quarters fufficient to accommodate in the best man
ner more than fifty labourers.
The arable lands are f« advantageously divided as to af
ford an opportunity of making a large quantity of Indian
corn annually, without bringing the field into similar cul
ture oftner than once in four years; consequently the
'lands may be improved by keeping up the inclofures during
the intermediate years, or may be beneficially fallowed for
wheat and other grain at the option of the proprietor.
On *he prcmifes there is also a merchawt mill with one
pair of best French burr i tones, and one pair of Cologne ;
furnifhed with modern machinery, and now leafed for the
unexpired term ol four years, at 1501 per annum, and all
grain for the use of the farm, hopper free, which is near
ly iool. more. The mill and miller'shoufe are built of
free stone, within a very fraall distance of navigation,near
to which are two or more valuable fisheries, and a well
accuftome<J ferry ever the Rappahannock to the town of
Frederickfburg. The land co n tain- inexhaustible quarries
of free stone near to the river, is plentifully supplied with
remarkable fine water and pofTeffes a due proportion of
meadow, which by having the command of water may
be considerably increased. The roads are good, and the
neighbourhood genteel and sociable. In fa&, exclusive of
an improveable and well conditioned farm, the value and
emolument inseparably conne&ed witn a mill, ferries,
fiflieries and quarries eligibly situated ; the profits arising
from an ice-house inferior to none in the state, and a gar
den of four acres so abundantly stocked with vegetables
of£all forts as to Jbe fully equal to the demand in market,
th-re might be detailed many other advantages,
[ taining to the fertility of these lands, which the fubferiber
conceives it unnecessary to mention, being fully convinced
that when examined, it will be found to be a complete,
pleasant and healthy residence, po fie fling beauties and'
conveniences fufficient to attra<ft the attention of any per
son defirousof becoming a purchal'fer.
| The motive which induces the fubferiber to offer for
sale an estate so Angularly beautiful and advantageous, is
a desire to become an inhabitant of Alexandria, where he
can with more ease attend to his interests in the neigh
bourhood of that /city.
The purchaser may foe accommodated with a few slaves
in families, either for plantation or domestic use. A part
of the purchafc money will be required and the balance
made easy, the debt being properly secured.
WILLIAM FITZHUGH.
Chatham, (Virg.) Dec. i£, 1796. xith—ftawzm.
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South Second-Jlreet.
SCHEME of 1 LOTTERY,
For raising Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an Aft of
the Lcgtflature of Pennfylvaaia, patted during the 'a't
feflion, for building a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berks. Dollars.
1 Prize of 20.000 Dollars - 20,000
1 do. of tQ,ooo do. • • 10,000
3 do. of 5,000 do. ... 15,000
4 do. of 2jooo do. - - 8,000
20 do. of 1,000 do. ... 20,000
39 do. of 500 do. - . >9»5 00
80 do. of 200 do. ... 16,000
200 do. of 100 do. * 2,0,000
300 do., of 50 do. * - 15,000
1 do; of 500 do, to be paid the pofTef- £
for f the firft drawn no.) &
5 do* of 3,000 do. to be p?«d pofTeflors >
of the five last drawn nos J
9,400 do. o 15 do. : • 141,000
10,054 Prizes 300,000
19,946 Blanks —
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
AH Prizes shall be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
finifhed, upon the demand of a poffeflor of a fortunate
ticket, fubje£l to a deduction of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickets are disposed
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William Witman,
Joseph Hiejler, James Diemer, Thomas Dun das,
James May, John Otto, John Ke'tm, Daniel Craejj\
Sebajiian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the 9th, 1796.
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, to be had at the
above office, where the earliest information of the draw
ing of the Washington No. 2, and Patterfon Lattery's,
are received, and checkbooks for examination and regif
teringare kept.
Tickets in the above to be had at Mr, Sheri
dan's Race-street, John Hay, North Third-ftrect and
Henry Sw;yer*s, German Town.
January 26 „ 2awtf
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Hwring in barrels and kegs
Dirto Salmon, by the dozen or single one
Dry Codfilh, from one to fifty kentals
Fine and .oarfe Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the stone
and ground, for manure and stucco-work
December i §tf
CAMILLA,
Or A Pi&ure of Youth.
By the authoress of Evelina and Cecilia, to be com
prised in five volumes, at half a dollar each, payable
on delivery —Printed at New-York, by Mr. John
Bull.
CONDITIONS.
I. Handsome, neat type, perfeflly new, is em
ployed.
11. A volume, stitched in blue paper, is intended
to be<publi(hed every weeks, till the five are com
pleted j the firft and second are come to hand, and the
tnird is hourly expeiledv Stibfcriptions are received,
and Books may be had of J. ORMROD, No. 41,
Chefnut-ftreet-
Mrs. D'Arblay (late Miss Burney) the celebrated
authoress of this inimitable work, needs no eulogy
to add to the laurels Ihe has already acquires? ia the
literary world. The strength of imagination ajjd ele
gance of style, displayed in Evelina and Cecilia, will
fufficiently recommend to every reader of taste and
judgmest, the perusal of Camilla.
It may not be improper to add, that the Queen of
England, after haying perused this interesting publi
cation, presented Mrs. D'Arblay with a thoufind
pounds sterling, as a testimony of her approbation of
the work.
Jaduory 25 eotf
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second street.
r T~ I ICKETS in the Canal Lottery, Nd. a, for sale—a
X Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
fehe late lottery.
f Check Books kept for examination and registering, for
the City of Washington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are tojbe had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public for
examination.
The fubforiber solicit* the application of the
and his friends, who wife to pvrchafe or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
Sc.c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
%* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Delkrs each, which will be drawn early in
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, January 26, t797* ntth
This Day is Published,
By BIOREN & MADAN, at their Printing Office,
No. 77, Dock-ftree't, and fold by the principal
Booksellers in this City.
The American Annual Register ;
Or hiftori*al Me.noirs of the United States, for the
Year 1796.
No. 167.
DiJlrtS of Pinnjyhania, so wit :
Be it remembir«d, that on the 19th day of January
in the Twenty-fitft year of the Independence of the
Unit.d Stales of America, Bioren & Madari of the said
difirift have depofned in this Office the tide of a Book
the Right whereof they claim as Proprietors in the
words following t« wit:
" The American Annual Register, or Historical
" Memoirs of the United States, for the year 1796.
In conformity to the a A of the Congress of the
United States entituled " An ail for the encourage
ment of learning byt securing the .opies of Maps,
Charts and Books, to the authors and proprietors of
such copies during the lime thereia mentioned."
Samuel Caldwell,
Clerk Peunfylvania Riftri<3.
January 45. iaw4
Elegant Brufiels & Turkey Carpeting,
For sale by George Dobfoo, No. 25, South Third-ftrect.
December 15. dt£
Clocks and Watches. •
LESLIE and PRICE,
No. 79, Market-strset, Philadelphia,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
Landon, a large aflortment »f WARRANTED
IVA t CHE S, e»nfifting of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with iecowds, of superior
workinanfhip and elegance ; also capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches j capp'd & jewell'd, capp'd,
seconds, day ef the mouth, and plain Silver Watches ;
eight day & chamber Clocks; elegant French Clock*
with marble frames j eight day and thirty hoar, bras*
works, &c.
Decembet it, 1796. d2m
A Manufa&ory FOR SALE.
A valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufactory, situate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works altnoft new,
on an entirely original conftru&ion, and built of the best
materials, and may be f«i to work immediately. ?erfon»
whowifnto purchase, are requested to apply at No 273,
South Sccond Street. . September 13. t t f tt
This Day is Published,
Br BIORE N and MA DAN, , '
And to be Sold at their Printing-Office, in Dock-
It re«t ; by M. Carey, No. 118, Market-street ;
Thomas Bradford, No. 8, South Front-flreet, and
George Douglafs, No. 2, South Third-street,
( Price, neatly bound,, two dollars)
AN ENQUIRY
Concerning Political Justice,
And its Influence on Morals and Happiness,
By William Godwin.
THE reputation of this work is already well efta*
blifhed in Europe—lt is hardly necefTary for an Ame
rican editor to fay more than barely to mention, that
the Enquiry concerning Political Justice has ever
since its publication been a favorite performance' with
the friends of republican government. The fti'e is
pure, nervous, and claflical; the ideas are strongly
marked by an or iginal vein of thinking ; and, amongst
a multitude of other just and striking paflages, the
author's delineation of the peculiar infelicities insepa
rable from the condition of a King, may be pointed
out as a most mafterlv specimen of philosophical drf
quifition. Ihe latest London edition of this work
fells in this city at fouc dollars and an half.
January 24 d~;taw2w
Hibernian Society.
Such of tha Members ot thisfociety as are entitled t»
Diplomas, are raquefled to apply for them to
Mr. Hugh Holmes, Vice- President;
Mr. David M'Cormick, Treasurer;
Mr. Robert H. Drinker, Counsellor ;
Mr. yojepb Brozvn; ■ il
Mr. Edward Fox ;
Or to MATHEW CAREY, 9eo»
Philad. Jan. it, 1797. tawSt<
TO THE PUBLIC.
JA MES CAREY, No. 83, North Second Street, and
JOHN MARKLAND, No. 91, South Front Street,
Printers, have entered into partfierihip, under the firm of
Carey & Mark/and,
for the purpose of publishing an Evening in
this City, under thetitle of
The Daily Advertiser,
The firil number of which will appear on WEDNES
DAY the firft of MARCH next.
PROSPECTUS of the WORK.
I. Besides the usual selection ot intelligence, foreign
aad domdlic, The DAILY ADVERTISER will be en
riched with such other articles as may tend to the im
provement and extension of our commerce, agriculture,
manufactures, arts and fcienees, &C &c. nor lhall tha
less profitable, though highly pleaiing wallts of poute
literature, be wholly unfrequented ; as its pages will
occasionally be variegated and enliv ned from the stores
ef history, travel, biography, anecdote, &<*. as well as
the lighter effufions of sentiment, wit, humour, and
pleasantry, in prose and verse
11. The DAILY ADVERTISER will be open for
candid and liberal dilcuflion, oa both fides of every po
litical question which may interefl the public mind. It
will likewise contain such extra&s from party papers and
pamphlets, on t?oth {ides, as mayferve to develop the
plans and conda«sfc cf each—This part of the general dc
lign, should it even fail of effecting its jJrime object, that
ot lessening the fervor of political zeal, will, at least,
diileminate that general knowledge of the bed interefls
of society and the public weal, so eflential to every citi
zen of a free and enlightened country.
111. The DAILY ADVERTISER will contain a full
and regularly digested MARINE LIST formed upon the*
plan of the London LLOYD's LIST, and a varie yof o
ther commercial intelligence; so that the menantile read
er may obtain at a fi»gle glance that information which
he has hitherto been obliged, and often in vain, to seek
thro'a large confufed mass of miscellaneous matter.
IV. The pagqsVif this paper will be numbered, and the
Subscribers furnifhed yearly, with A COMPLETE AND
COPIOUS INDEX.—This part of the plan, which will
be faithfully executed, must render a volume of thefa
papers of more ( value than the original fubfeription.
Thus have the Editors briefly fkerehed out the LEAD
ING FEA TURKS \yhich shall mark their intended pub
lication, to which they solicit a {hare of that publi# pa
tronage and encouragement without which the most ju
dicious plan and,the greatest exertions must become e
qually abortive and unprofitable.
To deserve that support which they now solicit, they
will leave nothing uneffayed which may be compared by
the most unremitted industry and liberal expenditure.
CONDITIONS OF PUBLICATION.
Is. The DAILY ADVERTISER will be neatly and
corre&ly printed in Folio, on fine royal paper and with
new types. It will be diitributed every day (Sunday
excepted) at the usual hour in the evening.
The annual subscription wiil be only fix dollars—
the firft hall years fubfeription to be paid on fubferibing
or in three months from the commencement of the paper.
Afterwards to be paid half yearly in advance.
I, \ DVERI ISEMENTS w iH b« conspicuously displayed,
carefully corrected, andinfertcd upon moderate terms.
Until the editers «an procure a convenient central
situation to consolidate their business, they will receive
fublcriptionsand advertisements at their refpedtive houfei
No. 83, N- Second-Jireet, and No. 91, S. Front-street,
from the latter of which the paper will be published.
N. B, They will ifTue an AVANT COURIER of
thefige, type, paper , and plan of the Daily Advertiser,
a week or ten 'days before the publication of the nrft
number, which will be gratis, to enable the
public to form a decided opinion 011 the merits of the
undertaking.
Jan. 19. law4w.
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO!
—No. 119 —
C H F S N UT-STR E E T.
fPricc Eight Dollars p«r Annum.)