of tire and Philaddphia Daily Advertiser.
Nv MBER 1605.J
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRY GOODS.
Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. j6,
AW,,} ./ outh Front-street,
) Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 6j
C South Front-street.
T Forenoon—John Connetly, Old Citv
fucfdntJ Auillon, No. 73 foutti Front-street.
Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C ißj High-street.
WecUefday f Afternoon-Peter 3enfon, No. 74
? kouth Third-ftrcet.
Tburfday \ Forenoon-Edward Fox
t Afternoon —John Connelly.
Friday I Forenoon—William Shinnon.
* 5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
To be Sold at Public Auction,
On Saturday evening, Nov 4, '97, at 8 o'clock,
at the Merchants' Coflee-houfe,
dols. cts. ,
I Note drawn by James Greenleaf
in fdvour of and endorsed by Edward
Fox, dated 9th August, 1796, due jith
Odoher lad, 1,300
3 do. drawn by said James Green
leaf in favor of and endorsed by Ed
ward Fox dated sth 1 uguft, 1796, at
4 months date, 1 payment dols. 1681
1.;, 1681 14, and 2681 14, amount
together 8043 41
3 do. do. of fafae date, drawn and
endorsed as aforefaid, payable in eight '
months, payment*,dols. 1693 7J each,
amount together 8081 15
3 do. do. of fame date, drawn and
endorsed as afurefaid, payable in 13
months' payments, dols. *693 75 each,
amount together 8,081 45
*Ji°s 91
T draft drawn by Robert Morris on
John Nitholfon, dated2BthMay, 1796,
at It months jooo
1 do. drawn asaforefaid, at two
years 5000
X do. drawn by John Nichol
fon, on Robert Morris,dated 18th
May, 1796, at 3 )ears 5000
1 do. drawn as aforefaid, at 4
years 4000
—•-«- to,ooo
The said drafts are secured by shares
in the North America Land Company
and endorsed by James Greenleaf
I Note dated Bodon, 18th May,
I79?,drawnby Thomas Dawes, jun.
in favor of Thomas Gieenleaf, paya
ble »ft January, 1798, endorsed by Da
niel Greenleaf, Henry Newman and
James Greenleaf 1150
1 do. dated Boflon, 18th Nov. 1995,
drawn by Daniel Groeqleaf, in favour
of Thomas Dawes, jun. payable|4t Jan.
1798,endorfed by Thomas Greenleaf,
Henry Newman, and James Greenleaf 6500
3 Notes, dated Bodon, 17th Nov.
drawn by Benjamin Halkell, in
i»v<iur of Jamri Greenleaf, payable ill
January, 1799, endorsed by laid James
Greenleaf and Nahum Fay, dols. 5300
jjco—looo 8OB»
3 do. dated Boston, 17th Nov. 1795,
drawn and endorsed as aforefaid, paya
ble id (an. ißqo, one payment, dols.
6joo, 3000, 4COO Itaoo
One bo|d, Zachariah Cox to James Greenleaf,*
and assigned by him, dated the lift March, 179;, .
in the sum of ten thousand dollars, conditioned lor
the conveyance of 1 jooo acres of Land, near the
town of Frederica in Glyn county and state of
Georgia, the said band full due.
''John-Connelly auttionter.
Oil. ;8.
lo be Sold, by Public Vendue,
On Monday, the 13th day of November next'
at 11 o'clock intht forenoon, at the late dwel
ling plantation of At-EXANDt*. PoßTm.Efq.
deceased, in the Hundred and County of New -
Castle,
All tjie Stock of the said Farm,
Confiding of ho'fcs fit for draught or saddle,
colts, fat cattle, milch cows, calves, l'everal
pairs of large and valuable oxen. .Sheep and
hogs (all the horned 1 attle and ftuep, being of
a very large and fine breed ) and also carts, har
rows, ploughs, and other farming atenfils, to
gether with a variety of household furniture.
The con litions of Sale will be made known,
at the time and place aforefaid.
Mary Porxer, Admrx.
New Castle Hundred, State of )
Delaware, Oft. 10, 1797. 5 |
.$2" AH pfrions indebted to the estate of the
said Alexander Porter, are requtlled to jnake
payment, and those who have demands ag'ainft
the fame, to produce them duly authenticated,
for fettlemeßt.
CM. 30. dtS.
- J Lilt arrived,
From Port-au-Prince, and For Sale b/ the fubferi
bers, No. ai, Penn-ftreet,
■6*2 hogOieads,^\
81 tierces ( Q f p r i me _ Coffee
513 barrels (
646 bags J
, Witlings' iff Francis.
o<a. it. §_
Philadelphia, 03. IJ.
THE fubferibers inform their friends and cufto
jners in town and country, that their (lores are now
jqpen in the city, and others are daily opening, and
that from the present appearance of the prevailing
disorder have reason to hope, their friends may
thortly come to the city with perfect faf ty. By
several late arrivals, numbers have received freih
supplies of GOODS.
Robert Smith iff Co. P- tV, Gallaudet if} Co.
John Davis Jrf Co. Sitgreaves i$ French,
Neill y Smith, George Dob/on,
H'iltberger and Smith, Thomas Ryerfon,
Alex Bit/land and Co. T. R. Hardenberg.
"Jacob Spr'ry and Co. John Smith and Co-
O-wen ift Joi/a. Jones, Thomas Orr,
Keppele \ff Zantzii/ger, William Barker iff Co.
•Adam Zantzwger, Thomas sir mat isf Son.
John Fries, J• Miller, jun. and Co. ,
Johnson.
Otf. J-4 1
Wanted, to Hire,
Al.arge and convenient HOUSE, in or near 1
the centre of the city—for which a generous i
rent will be given ; to be taken for a year, or on <
}e»fe for a longer term. Inquire of thu Printer. (
OA. 17.*" eotf
PHILADELPHIA
For SAVANNAH,
THI FAST SAILING SHIT
V-
Swift Packet,
Patrick Gnbbin, Master.
'■ • NOW lying at Smith's wliarf,
above Race-street. Is haudfomc
1 ly accommodated for paiTengers, and will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or paffage,appiy
to the Master on board, or at No. 95, South
• Front-llreet, or of the fubferibers,
N. & y. Frazier.
o-s. 28. dtf
For St. Thomas's,
THE DANISH BRIG
Prince Frederick,
Francis Geolfi, Majler.
ILL fail with all convenient speed, having
the greater part of her cargo ready to go
on board. For Freight or Paflage, apply to the
Captain, or to JOSEPH SIMS.
Oft- 28. §6t
For London,
Daniel M'Pherfon, Majler.
1 O fail with all convenient fpee.d—-• a conlidera
blc part of her cargo being already engaged.
For terms of Freight or Paflagc, apply to
Rojs iff Simfon.
oa- 17-
For LONDON,
™ E SWEDISH SNOW
Adolphz r
Capt. Chs. Wh. Ramte ;
Expefied to fail in all the present month—A
few tons of Goods are wanted on Freight, and
will be taken on moderate terms, if speedy appli
cation is made. Apply ta
Peter Blight.
" Back of his new buildings, Dock-street.
oa 19. §
For Freight or Charter,
-dbel Catberina,
' Burthen about 160 tons.
THIS veflel in now ready to receive on ooard a
car S°» aD< ! may be dispatched to any port in Eu
rope or the Mediterranean in eight days.
■Apply to the Captain on board, or to the fubferi
ber - ■ • ' JAVIES YARD.
OA- 19- diet
For Freight or Charter,
THE GOOD BRIG
s U K e y ,
Isaac Vredenburg, Master;
NOWlyingat Clifford's wharf, and in compleat
order to receive a cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain en board, or
John Slyrin,
1 No. 81, Arch-ftrect.
WHO HAS JQJt SJH.R,
2000 wt.oFdouble refined Saltpetre
600 wt. of F F Gun Powder
300 barrels of Herrings
50 bushel* of Timothy Seed
150 cafe>-of Claret, firft quality
lr And a quantity of Sherry Wine.
Sept. 29. dtf
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State,- and now landing from on board the
Brig A.ilive, William W'illiams, Mailer, <
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof, :
And for Sale bv
Jehu Hollingf-worth Is! Co.
Wilmington, Sept. 31. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
'he brig GAYOSO, are
also for Sale or Charter, and
nr ,*-f rTj. now ready to rceeive a cargo
on board, at Wilmington. Apply as above.
Just publillied,
And to be fold at the Bcokflores of H. Iff P.
Rice, No. 50, Market-street i J. Ormrod,
No. 41, Chefnut-flreet, and W. Young,
corner of Chefnut and Second-streets,
An accurate System of Surveying;
IN WHICH IS C9NTAINFD,
I. Decimal fra&ions, in a plain, concise,
and easy manner.
». The extraflion »f the square root.
3. Plain-trigonometry, redlangular and ob
lique.
4. An exa<2 method to cast up the contents
•f lands.
j. Field surveying.
The whole being performed without the use
of scale and compafles, on a table of logarithms.
In which is given some account of flie variation
of the needle, and the iaufes of its attraction.
By SAMUEL MOORE.
Auffuft I. iaw2w
Lately Published,
In one vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar in boards) fold
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
Chefnut streets,
A Colleftion of Papers on the fubjeft of
Billioue Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years past.
Compiled by NOAH IVEBSTER, jun.
Containing letters from Do&ors Seaman, Smith,
Buel, Taylor, Ramsay, Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch
ell,on contagiou, &c. See.
Sept. If. ,jt
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just received, by W.M. Griffiths,No.ljy,South.
Second-street, a frelh supply of
Genuine Bal/am of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John HilJ
(who knowledge as a Botanist procured him
the appellation of the Linnxus of Britain) and is 1
•onfldcred in England as a certain cure for the above 1
complaints; it is alio of lingular efficacy in the 1
Hooping Cough, i
It may also be had retail of W. A. Stokes, No. ■
6i, South Second-street, and T. Stiff, 55, New- '
street, in bottles at 75 cent* each. I
Wm. Griffiths having observed idle happy <
fe<Sk of the medicine, (several cases of cures hav
ing come within his own knowledge) and the great
demand for it ha# induced him to order a large
supply, a part of which be ha* just received.
Attgufi 3. iaw3w {
By John Fenno, 'N°- 119 Chefnut Street. '
Samuel & iVlicrs Fifhcr,
ARF NOW OPEVING,
•H their Warehouse, No. 17, DockStraet, afrcfh
j alfortment of Woolen and other goods, Tu table to
the feafou, received by the late arrivals from Enr
■ land. *
•They have also for Sale
Lisbon "\
Tenerj/Fe ( ■
Sherry, and ( n and -quarter caflcs-
PortV/ines, J
Assorted queen's ware in crates, &c.
i? di w^taw^w.
TO BE LET—At a moderate Rfrit,
The principal part of a HOUSE,
WITHIN a (hort dillance of the Cnffee-houfe,
which has been occupied far the la!t four months,
confiding of a good dining room and parlour, two
bed rooms and a drefling room, two garrjts, kitch
en, wood vault and cellar, all in excellent order,
fit for the immediate reception of a small family.
None need apply but those who are refpe&abie and
regular. Inquire at the office of this Gazette.
Q<a - »4 dtf
TENERIFFE WINE.
LANDING at Walnut-llreet wharf, TENE
RIFFE W.NE, of excellent quality, in pipes and
half pipes for sale by JAMES TARD.
©a. !•. co^t
TO BE"SOtp;
And immediate fojfe/jion given, > '
A Convenient well iinifhed Brick Tenement,
with a cook house and other out houfes,fitu
atcd in a pleafaHf part of the boroirgh of Wilming
ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
has forty feet front on Wcft*ftfeet, and extends
through the square to Paflure-ftreet, on which is
ere&ed a Aable and carriage honfc. •
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. 30.
City Cwnmiffiontrs Office
August 29, i> 97 .
IN pursuance of an Ordinance of the Selefl and
Common Councils, palfed the day of May last.
Proposals in writing will be received hy the City
Coramiffioners for ode month from the ift of Sep
tember next, for'letting to rent on leasts for one
year to commence the firft r« j of January nelt, the
following public property of the city— '
The wharf and landing on Vine Street,
Also on SalTafras,
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Draw bridge, with
th« Scale and Filh Houfts, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under tbe City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof ai (hall be occupied by any buildann crent
ed for the use of the Colle&or of the Tolls, or bt
necelfary for the toll-gates.)
Ang. 3 3tawim.
THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES QRBEftLEAP}
HEREBY give notice, that thejr have diipofed
of the property assigned to them tor the securing
the paymeat of the notes acceptances, and en
dorsements given by Edward Fox, for the use
of the hid James Greenleaf; and theJiolders of
such notes, acceptances, and endorsements, are
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will fettle
with them for the amount of their refpe&ive
elaims, both principal and interest, at
any time before the icth day of Oflober next;
after which day, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of afiign
ment. *
Applications to be made at fonth-eaft corner
of Dock and Second streets (the Dock-street
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
dock every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tbo. IV. Francis,
John filler, J un. j
John AJhley,
Jacob Baker.
Auguft 18, 1797. d
DUTY ON CARRIAGES."
Notice jis hereby Given,
"""I -1 HAT agreeably to an ail of Congress of the
I United States of America, palled at Phila
delphia, the 18th day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ties on Carriages, for the conveyance of perfone,
which shall be kept by or for any person, for his
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of paflengers, the several dutie* and
rates following, to wit:
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every CI ariot, 1 % dols,
upon every Poll Chariot, 12 doU.
upon every Pod Chaise, 11 dols.
upon every Phaeton,with or without top, ,
9 dols. !
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having pannel vyork
above, with blinds, glaltes or curtains,
9 dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, having fra
med pods and topi with steel Tprings, 6
dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood- "
eiy>r iron fprinjs or jacks, 3 dols.
upon Curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel topcarriages, 3 dols. .
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or
iron springs, j dok.
For and upon all othef two wheel carriages, 1 dols.
upon every fonr wheeled carriage, having
framed polls and tops, and refling up
on Wooden spars, a dols.
The ColleSors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Diftricl of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September »»xt, for
the purpose of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
Germantown ; at thehoufe of Daniel St. Clair,Efq.
in the County of Montgomery; and at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ; 1
of which all perfonspoffeffed of such Carriages are '
desired to tike notice.
Notice is also given, 5
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will be grant
ed to them ; ons licqnce (or carrying on the bufi- j
ness of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the bufmefs of retailing Spi--
rituous liquors in less quantities tliatf 40 gallons, at
the fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorifedte grant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpe »or of the Revenue of the firft fui
vey of theDidriiilof PennfylvatTia. S
Office of Infpeflion at I w i
Germantow, 1 Jth Sept. 179J- 9 1
TUESDAY EVENING," OCTOBER 31, , 797
" From' Marseilles.
' THE CARGO
Of the Swedish haraue Gyftavus Adolphus, from
Mar!eilles,xo:.filling of the following aiticles,
is clii'chcrging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
sale by the fulifc'ibers
BRANDY, well flavored, of 2, 3 & 4th proof
CUret, in hogsheads
Drtto, in cases
I rontigniacWine, in cases ef 30 bottles
Olive Oil, ofafuperior quality, in balkets of 6
and li bottles
Capers
Olives
Aimonds
Dry Verdigreafe
, Writing Paper
, Umbrellas (Silk) of 28, 30 and 32 inches
1 T affcties
' Long and (hort white Kid Gloves for Women
• Silk Stockings
Handkerchiefs, in imitation of Madrafs
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Ostrich Feathers
Ribbons
Perfumery
Scented Hair-P9wder and Pomatum
Manna in forts v
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN &
KOBEIIT ANDREWS.
September 27. eotf
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Coffee
Madeira and Tencriffe Wine
For Sale by
James Tardy
No. —, South Fourrh-ftreet.
OA. 6. d*3w
Imported in the ship Man Chester,
Benjamin Smew-ell, Master,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber.
No. 11 Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy
Irish market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medocwine, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rota do. ' do:
Pimento in bags -«
4000 bufliels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
Boston Glass Manufa&ory.
THE citizens of the United State 9 are hereby
informdd v that the manufa&ure of Window
Glass is now commenced at the Glass House in Bos
ton.
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boston Glass, as it isfo well linown
throughout the United States to be in every refpesft
greatly superior to any ever imported from Europe.
It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
may be constantly had by applying to Charles F.
Kupfer, at the Glass House.
Orders from the distant States to be addressed to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-street, Boston.
Boston, Sept 30,17.97. O 4—2aw6w
Mejfrs. Timothy and Charlejlon ; Altjfrs.
Hodge and Boylan, Halifax, N. C. Mejfrs. Willett
and 0 Cortftcr, Norfolk ; Air. Ellis Price, Alexandria ;
MeJJt f. Yundt and Brown, Baltimore ; Air. Hopkins,
Meru-York ; and Atejfrs. Hudson 55* Goodwin, Hart
ford ; Mr. Seymour, Savannah ; ate requeued to inferi
the above once a iveei 6 ureeis. The account; to be for
-Iwarded to the Jfy/itor.
At a Meeting of the Board of
Property, June 6, 1797,
Present John Hall, Sea'ry.
Francis Johnlion, R. O. > oflandoffica
Dan. Brodhead, S. G.)
Nicholas Bettijiger, )
Versus " [
Samuel Cunningham, j
In this cafe the proof of service of notice be
ing inefficient, It isordered that notice
en In one of the Philadelphia and York newlpa
pers weekly, for at lealt eight 'weeks to the
heirs or afiignees of Samuel Cunningham de
ceased, to atttend the board on the firft Monday
in November next, to (hew caule why a paten;
fliould net ifliie to Nicholas fiettinger for the
land in queflion.
(A true Copy.)
JOHN HALL,
Secretary of the Land Office.
Aug. u. *iaw&w.
At the Federal Blast Furnace,
In Carver—for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
M I L LS.
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THEIR superiority conjtjls in being free from
holes and honey-combed places, jiuhicb are com
monly found in rollers cajl in sand, or day
moulds. Theft patent rollers are cajl in inn
moulds, pre-vioujly heated, and will be found to 1
be more dense, solid and durable than any rollers '•
heretofore used. Another important advantage
they. have over others, is, that the necks require I
no turning, but are immedaitely fit for use, and '
from their accuracy, run with less friftiun, ciud '
require less water to make them perform their '
•work. 1 bey may be had by application to the '
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Good- '
if in, or ofMejfrs. Thatcher and Hay tuard
Boflon, Aug. 31. Sept. 19. §(
This Day is Publilfeed,
BY Mess. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the '
other Bookfeilers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-6ve cents,
Elegant y printed on Wove paper, and Hot
prejed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States w{th each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
clafling together their most important provisions,
under the several heads of admißiitration ; with
Notes and ObfeV vat ions.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States,
dedicated to the People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on a a inferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
Februasy6 % mwf
Public Nptice is hereby given,
THAT the Commifiioners for the JDiflriil of
Southwark have removed their hall to the house
formerly occupied by Samuel GcfF, Christian at in \
the .corner of Fifth it rest. i
James f Richard Smith,
| AKE tflc liberty of informing their friends
1 an< * public, that they have removed their
, I.ore to N'o. 54, South Front Jlreet, next d»or to Ed
r war 1 i ox's Aufiicn Room, where they have at
this time for sale, a large and general afiortment «f
f .. European Eajl India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
William Pejjn. &c. &c.
.. Ofl-27- ____________ <5
Now Landing,
At Sims W harT, from on board the ihip Commerce,.
captain Chamberlain, from Port au Prince t
35 hogsheads of SUGAR
g 4 do. MOLASSES
4 tiercel <]„.
FOR SALE, BT *
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
~~-J y - §
Ross y sims on7
have for sale,
A few bdles Baftas, Coflas, and
' a quantity 0 f Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, ( RUM.
and Bengal j
Oft *7- f.
Samuel Pleafants & Sons,
No. 74, South Sicond-Jlrcet,
HAV'u received afupply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they art now opening for sale, on
rcafnnable tei: OS 27. 4W
St. Croix Sugar & Rum,
For Sale by
JOHN NIXON Co.
Oift. 16. d.tw.
To Gentlemen who intend J pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without No. 114, corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The fltuation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. Od. 37.-—dtf
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth street, corner of North alley, No. 34,
HAS FOR. SALE,
EXCELLENT red bourdeaux Wine in cafctinf
bores, fix years old
White Graves Wine in calks
Ticklenburgs
Ruflia Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck
Bag Linen
HefTians 1
Diaper and Table Cloth
Empty bags
Common German Cloth
An assortment of black coloured Rifcboiw
Fine German Laces
About twelve tons RufEa clean Hemp
Clover Seed , A
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family use
Window Glass Aug. qq.—uy
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto ditto Claret in cafe*
Just received, and for Sale by
Rundle £3° Leech.
A .C- lawtf
THIS DAY WAS PUBLISHED,
And for U\t by 7HSMsIS DOBSON, at the
Stone House, No. 41, south Second
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Confining of a variety of Mifeellaneous Pieces for
and amufemcntof YOUNG PER
SONS—SixVolumeshandfomely printedand bound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these pieces are
such, that the book needs only .to be known to be
iinivelfally efleemed one of the mod valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the hands of young
persons.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea how tu (hoot,
To pour th« frtfh inftruiflion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enli*. ening fpirit,and to fix
The generous purpose in the glowing bread."
Thomson.
August 24. , mwf 4 w
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON, at the Stonei Uoufa,
No. 41, south Second Ureet,
Letters and Converfati-ons,
Between several Young Ladies,on improving and ic*
terefhng fubje&B.\
Translated from tfee'Dctch of Madame de Camion
with alterations and improvements,
Printed onfint paper s and neatly bound,
.Price one JiAiar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Remiwices, painSng
tales of extraordinary diilreft, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," ami
which it would be for the h.-»or of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward to so
licit notice, where in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real lift, the proper, becaufa
elegant and natmral dignity and importance of the Female
character is exhibited in an intrrelling pom: of view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publifr.er was fomuch pleafedwith the perit
fil,,that he was persuaded he (hould do a plcafing
fervieeto the community by fending it iu o circu
lation. August 24 —mw4w
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Anifterdam and Hamburg, andforfale by
B. & J. BOHLEN,
A large ajfortment of Jine French v Cambrics,
Platillas Htiffia indDutch lailcloth
Brittannias Writing, post, and pttnt-
Rotianes ing paper
Brown Holland Dutch calf skins
Checks and flripes Prime madder
Ticklenburgs Shell'd Barley
Oznahitrgs Looking glafles
White fiieetings Hollow glass was#
Diaper Slates
Brown rolls Coffee mills
Umbrellas Brass kettles
Haii ribbons Scythes and straw knivj« -
and whitelaces Tovsaflorted in boxti
Bell Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Madeira Wins
July 24. m&thtf
Act laying Duties on Stamped VelTum
Parchment and Paper.
A FEW copies of the abov! Ast may be had at
he Office of the Gazett««f »he SJniud States, No
tj, Chtftiut-Areet. July 19.
fVolume XIIiwrrKx f jam vtffjrjsala '£j_
X&t ®#settc.
-*• Tlieir
PHILADE LPB IA , recorc
TUESDAY EVEKINO, Octobfr Vi. f, t«d i
A CHARGE A
V 9 /-'v Grand Juries of the counties of Alley- the c<
hen)i, lit'c. Publifhid at the . rcqu jl of the count
G rait J Jury of Allegheny county. have
[fcvrc.'ujeJ from yrfirdhy's Garrt.V."! _
But, while it may be admitted, that a
competent government has been eftahlifhed -p[
for th- United States, and for this Rate ; t j l£ ]
and while it may be admitted, that this state jendf
is (nffrcierttly subdivided into inferior dif- Q f j t
trifts, it may, yet remain a proper fnbjeft of town
inquiry, whether a competent government ;fmj
has been provided for the inferior diftrifls V ; £W
into which this Hate i* subdivided ; and
whether this is not a fubjeft proper for le- ; n a ,
g!(l.>tiv<- consideration : And this fubjeft is com ,
the more open for discussion, as, if any new comr
provision be proper, no extraordinary con- t b e
vocation of the- people, nor any alteration of n \ p
t!it constitution is neCeffiry, to effeft it; but r j t y
it may lie accompli(hed by the ordinary ex- eX pe
ercife ox iegiflative authority. T
It may not however be improper, for a juftii
moment, this enquiry, in order g]y t
ju(| to mention, that there is another division q
of i.he state with a view to elisions. Several cree ,
counties sometimes compose one diftria, for twee
the purpose of choosing one or+nore senators on a
in the assembly or in con- hear
grejs. Ed v
Now, I believe, every county is fubdi- f one
vided into election diftri&s, each composed t j on ,
of one or more township*, or parts of town-
(hips', within the bounds of which, all the p
meet at one place, to c-le&, their j
county, state, or federal officers. new
The powers of government are ufunlly s
divided into three kinds, legislative, judi- t h o |
cial, and executive ; and I consider it as j un ; f
essential, that, not only the whole territo- I J
ry, btyt every divifibn or diftrift, into which witl
it is divided, possess, within ltfelf, full an- 3 (■
thority of the legislative, judicial, and exe- t h e
cutive kind, under the controul, when any un( j
of its regulations or afts have a more exten- b e
five tendency, of the superior diftricl or be ;
jurifdiftion, which may be affefted by them. t h e
The authority of the government of the 1 n jft
United States, extending over the whole to ,
territory of our is defined rou
in the constitution of the United States. a s,
The authority of the government of Penn- 0 f ,
sylvan 12, one of the diftrifts or members of re g
the United States, extending over, the „f J
whoV of this diftrift, is defined in the con- f uc
ftitution of this state. Ido not take upon t h e
me to futj-geft any improvement in the fede- be
ra! or state government; but proceed to en- All
quire, whether a competent government has f ro
been provided for the counties and town
ships.' into which this state is divided and Q u{
subdivided. . ere
The United States is a corporation. Each a[K
state is a corporation. But it has not* yet p o i
been e-.cprefsly dfclared, that every county, a3
and every township. is also a corporation, bei
This I think essential to be done. ex;
The authority resembling the legislative, ro:
for the county, is vested chiefly in the toi
county commissioners, who are aathorifed Q f
t•» impose and apply such sums of money, e rr
a3 ncceffitry for the public service and tJtl
be fit of their refpe&ive counties.* This ou
authority seems to be ample, and I think it n e
- proprr, that the commissioners have com- ft,"
pleat iegTlTatlve authority, to direst the in
ternal taxe3 and improvements of the county. e ir
Besides their present authority, they ought pe
also to have power, to declare any naviga- CQ
ble ft reams, within their counties, to be m i
public highways, and to prefcribc where and m;
how roads (hall be maoe and kept up at the j mi
expence of the county. The manner of their co
cxercifing this authority may be regulated ft;
by laW,'and, like other authorities, in all, U
proper cases, submitted to the eontroul of St
the judic : ary . b)
The commissioners come into office gene- fta
rally unexperienced in their duty, and, not St
seldom, with strong prejudices against a right be
exercise of their authority ; and'before they di.
have overcome their prejudices, or learnt th
their duty, their authority expires. Thus
the office of commissioners is too often filled, gr
not with intelligence and public spirit, but 0 i"
with jo-norance and obstinacy ; and the im- pc
provement and prosperity of the counties are
greatly obftruaed. This might be reme- r it
died, by doubling the time of their appoint- j t ,
ment, and elefting only once in every t«o tic
years ; unless it were thought proper, to pr
double also the number of commissioners, re
and eleft one yearly. ,
The county judiciary ls eftablillied by the ,f
constitution of the state on a refpedable th
footing. The legislature has not yet thought ft
proper, though they have the example of c!
the courts of the United States, for. tn.s tl
purpose, to veil the courts with what is call- ft
ed chancery powers. This is an eftential b ;
improvement yet neceflary, and ealily to bi
be effeaed in the judiciary department. I tl
consider it as another defea in the county h
judiciary, that their records may, before 0
"judgment, bC remov«d out of thes o « nn y-
All the purjiofes of uniformity might be t i
effeaed, by making the supreme court, as ir
to other counties, while it fit* 111 Philadel- ~
phia, a court for the decision of points ot p
law only, without any jury process,; and by
direaing, that one or more 01 the judges of j,
the supreme court, or with the president of c
the county court, (hould, at stated terms,
and at least once in every year, hold a cir- f
cuitin each county, for the trial of all cases t
removed from the county court into this cir- r
cuit court. Judgments of the county com ts [
it.iVrht be examined in the circuit court on f
writ, of error ; and judgments of the circuit c
court, in the supreme court, which com- t
posed as is now the court of errors and ap
peals, fribuld be the court of la ft rcfort in ,
this state. . '
The executive officers of the jiidiciu. au
thority are iheriffsi coroners, &c.
» 1 St. L.
The commissioners have power to appoint This
a clerk. This is an dfficcr eflintiatly ne- th<e ]
ceffary to a proper execution of their trust. parti<
Their proceedings ought t,o be accurately The
recorded, and their books and papers depo- the t
sited in a fafe public office, under tha care of their
their clerk. A
A county tieafurer is also appointed by ed b>
. the commissioners, for the receipt of all the ffiip
county and state money. He also yugbt to pay
have a fafe public office, and keep public treaf
books.. For the colleaion of public taxes, over
the system of townlhip officers ought to be 1
J applied to. mon
The system of township government, as road
' the least important, has been the least at- app<
- tended to ; and it is from the improvement E
" of it, not only as it concerns the fercral be a
townfhips, but as part of the general fyf- have
I tem, that the chief benefit which I haye in font
II view will arise. j
' At present there is no general authority | 1
" in a townftip, analogous to that of county appl
s comtniftioners. The care of the roads is ' '•
" committed to supervisors, and the care of
" the poor to overseers. And for these feve- j {j, ou
ral purposes, they have severally the autho-j 2 .
rity of imposing, applying, colleaihg and lixm
expending the townfliip taxes.
The judiciary authority is vested in a tJV^"
a justice or justices of the peace, aaing fin- c 01 !(
r gly. ar, d i" an unfolcmn and domestic way. ture
n Constables execute the proe'efs and de- As
crees of the township judiciary. But be- fr^
)r tween the time of arresting a defendant,
rs 011 a warrant for a debt, and the time of j tl]e
hearing before the justice, it is not provid- | fcht
ed what the constable shall do with his pri-1 ftnt<
'■ foner. Other inconveniences might be men- Ihe
, tow
tioned. . | the!
i- A(TeHors and colleaors are employed in | up|
\ e proportioning and levying the county taxes. \>
' r I would have the township administration an <
new modelled, so as to render it competent
'y to all township purposes, and auxiliary to
those of the county, the state, and the ner
38 ! union. I I
0_ \ Every township ought to be a little state, Jto i
-'h with its legislative, judiciary, and executive; l er I
u " a corporation, with complete powers for I j^ 1 .
e " the government of all iu internal concerns, j p ot
Iff under such regulations and controul as may I out
n * be thought proper. And there ought to j his
or be a town-house in each towafhip, at which
rn - the different authorities of township admi-1
niftration ought to be exercised. Annexed j
to this theirs ought to be a town jail. A- 1
round the town-house would naturally grow I »»'
es - a fmaill village, which, being under the eye I
,n " of the township authority, would be better I
regulated, and more remarkable for decency I Th
; he manners than country villages, wilhout I lar
3n * such fuperintendance, too often are. There Im'
108 the eo'intry manufaaurers would naturally I
de- be collefted, and much improve each other. a
en * And much time, now wafted in travelling t i,.
has from one to another would be saved. I bei
vn- The legislative authority of the townlhip to
md ought to be vested in townfliip comniiffion
ers, appointed like county commissioners, er
ich a[J d like them having full authority to im- t (, ;
yet pose and appropriate such sums of money I ve
>ty, as are neceflary for the improvement and of
on. benefit of the township. They ought, for
example, to have power to declare what I
ive» roads shall be laid out and maintained at the ou
the township expense ; to direst the regulation th
fed Q f fences ; to provide for the support and to
ley, employment of the poor, if they <liall con-
and tinue to be a township charge ; and, with-
rhis out multiplying instances, to do all things j,
it necessary for the public benefit of the town- a 1
>m- ftjp. lir
: ' n - It has been proposed to the legislature to V
tity. employ and maintain the poor at the ex- t j.
ght penfe of the county. Several objeas, now
iga- committed to the earc of the townships, re
be might be distributed, according to their b<
and magnitude, to the superior diftrias. There "
the ; might be .hospitals or work-houses for each I
heir county, supported by the couuty ; for eaeh al
tted 1 state, supported by the state ; and for the a<
•ill. United States, supported by the United
dos States. There might be roads, supported
by the county ; roads, supported by the tl
ene- state ; and roads, supported by the United a |
not States. Other objeas of public care might t]
ight be, in like manner, distributed to the juiif
■hey diaion affeaed by them, in proportion to
arnt their importance. 1 „
"■bus Every man must have had occasion to re- p
lied, gret, that the dignity of the judicial branch w
but of government is sometimes not well sup- 11
im- ported, in the domestic and unfolemn man- I "
s are n ?r in which the township judicial autho
;me- r ity is exercised. For the improvement of P
>int- it, I would recommend, that though jus- t<
two tices may issue warrants or other original
, to process, at their own houses, or as occasion
lers, requires, and may there examine any inci- r
dental question ; yet that the justice, and a
' the if there be more than one, the justices, of I c
able the township fliould meet and hold a town-
Jght ft,'p court, for trying and determining f
e of causes in the town-house, and at stated j
this times or court days. Every warrant or
call- summons, issued ior any debt or demand, t
ntial by ar.y justice in the township, ought to 0
f to be made rettiriiable at the town-house, on f
1 the next court day, and the matter there I j
unty heard by the justice or justices in the town (
:fore court. |
inty. At the meeting of this court, everyjuf-i'
t be tice of the township ought openly to return
t, as irtfo court all his domestic official proceed- '
adel- ings, relative to conviaions, or any other 1
Is of part of his jurifdiaion. '
id by When a constable has received from a 1
;es of justice, or from the town court, any pro-j'
nt of C ess, he will proceed to execute it. When I
srnis, he has arrested a defendant on a warrant I
» cir- f or debt, he ought to havt' authority, like
cases the flieriff, if bail for his appearance at the
is cir- next town court be not given, to commit I
ouits him for fafe custody to the town jail. Be
rt on f or <; the fitting of the court on each court- I
ircuit day, the constable should return all hispro
com- ce f ß at the town-house. |
d ay- A clerk ought to be appointed in each
ovt in town/hip to receive all the returned proccfs
ftom the constable, and all the domestic
a! au- proceedings from the justice or justices, en
ter them in a book, and keep a record of I
all the proceedings of the town court. [
This would ptetent many irregularities in to ai
tht proceedings of jufticer,, ftom which prop
parties before°thenl now fulfer not a little, whei
The fame clerk ought -also to be a clerk to rant,
the township commifiioners, and record all T
their profceedings. b)i(h
All taxes in the townftjip may be colleft- lar g
ed by the constable, and paid over to a town- tent
• ffiip treasurer, whose duty it (hould be to ceab
1 pay over all county taxes to the county men
: treasurer, whose duty it (hould be to pay laws
, over all state taxes to the state treasurer. near
; The application and expenditure of the ther
money railed for the use of the poor, the to tl
j roads, &c. may be entrlifted with officers won
- appointed for that purpose. . V
t Everv county town ought of course to j not,
1 be a borough, and every borough ongjht to jis a
- have a separate government, for its internal tion
n concerns, on the plan of a towndiip, mo- ty,
I dellrd to jts peculiar circumstances. proi
y j This township administration might be and
y 1 applied to various ufeful purposes. of c
' s | I. Xlic'townfllip commifiioners awl jufticM fit- us ]
r : tinfc together for that purpose, might have power j
' j. to fix en thcplac", ymere a town-house and jail
i fliould bi; built, and direit their building.
»- i 2. To them also might be assigned th< duty of r
d fixing the number o.f taverns in the tewnlhip, and
recommending proper persons for licences to keep er"
n Jt (
3. Public inftruit 1011 is a public duty a»<l the ((
l " confiitution of this (late ha 9 the legifla
'. ture to provide for the eftabliihment of fchooln.
;- As various grades of schools are necefTary, ur.i "
a, verfitiei, colleges, academies, and fehools common- tet.
I ly so called ; the cftablifhmcnt anti diredlion of o ff e
'r tliem may be committed to the administration of
I the refpitlive territory or diftrifl. There may bt
i" fchooU efinbliflied for the United Sta'es, for each
i- 1 (late, for each county, and for each township. '
I The townfllip fchoolt may be cftablifhed by the Fn
township commiflioners and justices, and taxesfor on(
their eftablilhment. and, if necefTary, for their ,
I fuppjrt, be impqfed by the comrni.Tionerj.
S. Religion, as a part of public inllru&ion, and « e
>n lan essential fuppor of government, well deserves pli
nt I public attention and authority, to support itsmin- th(
illration : and public authority mi(:ht be exertedyy e
,° j in this part of public illnruction, in the fame man-
" e j ner, ae in the caf« «f schools.
Public inftruflion, in these two articles, may, c ' i:
e, 1 to some, appear more exceptionable, than any otn- ph
e . ler foint dated in the system proposed. But lam his
■ ' I persuaded, that, in proportion as prejudice isfub- t j Q
or I dued, and the attention fixod to the fubjefl, its im- .
ls ' 1 portan* will maaifeft itfelf. What is man with- P .
ay I out inltruflioT ! And how (lender is your hold on i' l
to I his mind without religion ! 10
c jj j 4. An important use might be made of this J)]
• I township administration, in conduAin? eleSion3,
ru " I one of the mod inteVefting tranfa&ions iu the
e( * 1 administration of the government. '' a
It has been remarked, that large afTemblies are th.
>W I a»t to be tumultuous ; and, therefore, and for the thi
ve I convenience of the electors, counties have beep flj,
' I divided into election dfftricts. But, (rom the me-
cr I th>d of conducting elections* many evils arise
«y 1 Thcreisno uniformity, nor solemnity, nor regu- . u
lut I larity, nor, !ometimes. honcfty, in their manage- in
;re I ment. The election officers ai e often linflcilful in
11, I that, or any kind of btffinefs ; and the places where
I the elections arc holden, are altogether unfit for r|
Cr- a proper or accurate manner of holding them. So .
"g I that, as they ar« now heldcn, it would be much
I better, that there were no divilion of a county in- 101
lip to election districts, and that all the electors affem- ftr
3n I Me at the court house, where there would be more
means, and, from the habitjof solemnity, n grea- an
rs ' er chance for an accurate and regular election,
m " than at the place of diftriet election. The incon- an
ley venience of the places of election, and the want
ind of (kill and care in election officers, occasion ma- Tl
f or ny errcrs and frauds in the election. It has erin pj
, happened, that the election officers have not been
I sworn, till the election was aver; and it isnotori
the I OUP( they take no pains to enquire, whether
ion those, who offer thoir votes, are qualified as elec- ev
ind tors. It ought to be remembered, that election ij c<
a part of the administration of the government; tj
°. " and, for a man not qualifiied as an elector, to ex
th" ercife this duty, isto usurp sovereign powers. For
ngs this reaf»n, the law of Athens pirmffied with death
,vn- aftranger, or unqualified person, who interfered F
in the assemblies of the people. And the intro a 1
dudion of a great number of strangers among the t )
citizens of Rome, Montefquiau eonfiders as one r
ex " the causes of the ruin of that republic.*
low EleiStions might be, at the fame time, convenient, P
ips, regular, fn»ll, and solemn, if every township or CI
heir borough were declared a fcparaic oleflion diftriA, a
, r . and the electors of that diftriit were required to J
R , C me#t at the town house, and give in their votes,
a under the infpeftion of the township commiflioncrs P
aeh a „d justices, who, or as many of them as (hould
the attend, (houldl conduft the election. The town- g
ited (hip clerk, with an assistant appointed for the pur- tl
f ,j pose, by the attending commiHioners and jullices, c
f f (hculd, under theit infpeflion, enter the names of
, 4 e the voters in a lift, cast up the votes, and minute a
ited all the proceedings of the eledion. The folemni- r
ght ty of the place and the officers from the habit of p
uif- the tranfaflion of important hufinef-, would secure
a regular and fokmn ele&ion. The multiplicity 0
of districts would difeourage intrigue ; the preftnt j
| authority, and the vicinity of the jail, would re
-1 re " press tumult ; and.the" fmallnefs of the diftrid 3
,nch wcuid enable the eleAors, in the greatcft number, c
sup. and in one day, to choose all their officers, for the J
lan- townflli P> the « unt y- the , ftate ' ani! the United j
J j States. v
tho- To prevent unqualified persons from voting, it
tof ought to be required, that all the citizen* in each 3
jus- I townfllip qualified td vote, (hall, at some township a
final court previous to their offering their votes, have j
V ' their right te vote examined by the justice or just!- f
; . I ces, and their names inf<irihed, by the clerk, in a
inci " roll of electors, to he kept by him, digelled in an '
and alphabetical order ; and, that no vote (hall he re- j
, of ceivcdat any elecftion, from any man, whose name i
>wn- isno! inferibed on th! ele&ion roll of the township: t
Withont this, or a similar regulation, I fee no cf- (
llin s feflual and convenient precantion against unquali
ate" ficd perfbns intruding themselves intoowr elefl ons 1
I or j When the elcc»ion is fiailhed and afctrtained, f
and, the result of it, so far as refpectstownfhip oflktTS, 1
t to ought to be recorded by the town clerk ; and a co. ]
py of it, certified by him, ke trasfmitted to the (
' ° n I county court) and to the county commissioners, to
" ere be inserted also in th»ir records. So far as it res- '
own 1 pected officers of the county, the state, and theU- '
I sited States, ( it weuld le,',as now, transmitted to <
jus- I the county town, and disposed of as the law directs. ,
, turn Together with the result of the township j
ced- ele^i° n > a co Py of the minut « s of proceed- ,
ther ings. as alfoof the rollof eleftors, the names
of the ele&ion officers, the lift of voters, the
3m a number of votes for each officer and candi
pro_ date, certified by the town clerk, (hould
(/hen also bp transmitted to the county town, and
rrant after careful examination, depoCted in the
like commissioners office.
t t i, e Other advantages might be stated, or oc
mmjt cur in experience, from the towndiip organ-
XJ e . ization. The principles of this plan might
ourt- be varied and improved. The county com
. pro . miffioners and judges might have authority
to alter the arrapgemeuts of the townships,
each and, from time to time, enlarge or lessen a -
•occfs "T of And deserves consideration,
neftic whether, i« teach township, there ought not
■ tn _ |tobe a feleft body of militia, whose pecu
rd of l'ar duty it (hould be, to support the laws,
rourt. I * Spirit of Laiut /• 2> c, 2.
to any officer of which, together with the
proper civil officer, any magi ft rate might, f
when he thought proper, direct his war
rant.
Thus, on a general model, might be efta- Th
blifhed, in every neighbourhood, a particu- ]
lar government free and energetic, compe- 1
tent to afford instant proteilion to every pea- i
ceable man, and instantly secure for punilh
ment every transgressor. The force of the
law 9 would be more within the view, and
nearer the feelings of all. The laws would I 1
therefore be trior#" refpcdted; in proportion oat
to the refpeft for the laws, the government cai
would be ufeful. (table, and permanent. to
Whether this system (hall be adopted, or dn
not, it lies not with us to determine; but it I i
Jis a proper fubjeft for the serious confidtra- A
tion of us all. And it is peculiarly our du- jnj
ty, at this time, in our several flations, to in
promote refpeft and obedience to the laws, pi
and so to promote the efficacy and happiness
of our government. And for this end, let yc
us proceed to enquire, whether, how, and pe
by whom, any public law has £een viol :ted, ed
within th« jurifdiftjon of the court. a
The article signed a " Country Subfcrib- tii
er" publiflied in Friday's gazette of the U- te
nited States, occasioned some remarks in c {
" Porcupine's Gazette" of Saturday, of C
which the following is an extiaft. f e
" [ Previous to mat ing any remark on this let- n!
tet, it is necejfary to lay before the reader the n(
offenjive paragraph, as it /lands in my gazette. ] IJ,
ANECDOTE ei
From the N. Y. Daily Advertiser. bl
" When Franklin was on his million to h
France previous to the alliance, be put up ai
one night at an inn near the frontiers. Gib- rr
bod, the celebrated historian, happening to j,
be in the fame house, Franklin sent his com- a j
pliments, requesting the pleasure of spending
the evening with Dr. Gibbon. In answer tl
1 he received a card, importing, that " not- k
withstanding Dr. Gibbon's regard for the a
t chara£ler of Dr. Franklin, as a man and a p
■ philosopher, he could not reconcile it with j
1 his duty to his king, to have any converfa- tl
tion with a revoltedfubjedt! Franklin in re- tl
' ply wrote a note, declaring, that "though r ,
, Dr. Gibbon's principles had compelled him v
to withhold the pleasure of his conversation, t
' Dr. F. still had such a refpeft for the charac- fc
' ter of Dr. G. as a gentleman and an hifto- e
rian, that when in the course of his writing ]
( the history of the decline and fall of empires, a
: the decline and fall of the British empire r
' {hould come to be his fubjeft, as he expeded \
it fooH would, Dr. F. would be happy to r
furnifh him with ample materials which were t
. in his pofleffion." i
i Upon this I made the following remarks : 1
e " Whether this anecdote record a 1
r truth or not, I (hall not pretend to fay ; 1
but it must be confefled that the expreiT- r
. ions imputed to the two personages were ,
- ftri£tty in charafter. In Gibbon we fee <
c the faithful fubjtft, and the man of candour ;
and honour: in Franklin, the treacherous
and malicious " old Zanga of Boston." (
t Now for the letter of Mr. Fenno's coun- (
i- try subscriber.——He hints at other |
dl paflages i« -my ga«ett«, ".calculated lode- -
" grade the American charaScr, &c." besides j
~ the one he has noticed ; but, as I cannot ;
even guess at these, I (hall be excused for ]
it confining myfelf, on the present occasion, te )
• the particular instance which he has cited. i
He obje&s to my " reviving animosities ]
I, which all good men desire to bury in oblivion." j
:d How unjust this charge w ipuft be perceived
i at once by ev»ry one who casts his eye over
,c the above. The anecdote was not of my
10 feledion ; it was published in n New-York
lt ppper, and republifhed in all those of this
ir city. The publication of it at this time was
St. a fort of dung-hill cock triumph over Great
to Britain, and could be intended for no other
purpofes than that of " reviving animosities."
Id The observations on this fpiteful para
q. graph are such as were naturally called for :
r- the reprobation of the malicious old hypo
:s! crite, who is represented as the hero of the
" anecdote ; and they do not contain the least
refleftion on the American chara3er or.the
of principles of the revolution.
re Old Franklin is held up to the admiration
'y of the people, for having wantonly, and ma
liciously prcdifted that the empire of Brit-
ain foon fall to the ground; and be
sr, cause I call him an oMZanga for this pre
hc diction, I am charged with degrading the
ct * American charader; as if every American
it were admitted to be of the fame disposition,
c h and to entertain the fame vengefulfentiments,
ip as this remorseless old deist. Nay, Mr.
ve Fenno's correspondent carries the thing still
farther, and observes, that the observation
'*• on Franklin neeeflarily applies itfelf to
Mefli's. Waflu'ngton, Adams, Jay, and Ham
tie ilton. But, if this curious logician expe&s
'P : to be believed here, he must firft prove each
c f.~ of these gentlemen to have uttered fenti
nj m,ents equally insulting, vindictive, and fan
cd, guinary, with those of Franklin ; a thing, I
r», believe, which it would be very difficult for
:o " him to do. However, this I have nothing
;he to do with. When I am convinced that
c r_ either of them, not content with obtaining
U- the independence of the Colonies, was fpvage
ito enough to hug himfelf in the hope that the pa
:5S - rentJlate wouldpcrifh in the conflict, I will call
"P him a Zanga. Nor shall Ibe afraid, in so
; d" doing, of exposing myfelf to the charge of
acs inconsistency. I have thought highly, &ud
' lc I have (poken highly of these gentlemen,
but, did any one ever suppose that I applaud
cd them merely as revSlutionijls ? Much less
as bitter, inexorable, and brutal enemies to Great
'^e Britain.
■' " '"j / - 11 ■ '"V 1 •yrrf
Red Port Wine.
, Just arrivtt', by tlx: brig Iris, capt. from
s' 1 ' Oporto,
>m- Rel Port Wine in pipe»,hhJs.and quarter cafcs
-ity 6o cwt. Cork, for sale by
ps, Philips, Cramond, & Co.
i a- Jn'y it. 5
The Medical Lectures
In the University of Pennsylvania, are poft
ct " poned until the lall Monday in November
ws > next.
O flober 14. «aW4w..
foreign intelligence"
PARIS, August 24.
The following curious Letter has been pub
lilhed on the death of the Duke of Or
leans, the Abbe Fauchet, and some Gi
rondines, finned by Lothringer :
" Thaun, in the Department of the
Upper Rhine, July 21, 1797.
" I this moment, Sir,leave aprifon where
I have beefi confined for having retra&edthe
oath of 1791, and for having made such re
caDtation'of it as was fnfficient, according
to the Constitutional Schifma, to have fe
djiced all the world. On my return home
I found a letter from you dated on the 25th
April last, which the fear of doing me an
injury had prevented from being sent to me
in the prisons of Epinal. I hasten to re
ply to it.
" With refpe£t to the Duke of Orleans,
you may inform the Duchess his very ref
pe&able and pious spouse, and who deserv
ed a more happy husband, that I received
a letter from Fouquier Tinville, formerly
the public aceufer of the infamous Revolu
tionary Tribunal, dire&mg me to adminis
ter the last offices of ourreligion to the Duke
of Orleans. Arrived- at the prison of the
Conciergerie, I found him difpoftd to con
fefs .very folly, but a drunken man, whose
name I do not know, and who was condem
ned to fuffer with them, for having, I be
lieve, thrown bread into the common few
er, prevented his doing so by the horrid
blasphemies which in his drunkenness and
his despair he poured forth against religion
and its servants. It was in vain that the
guards attempted toftlence him till at length
by great Providence, the drunken man fell
asleep just as the Executioners had arrived.
" The Duke of Orleans asked me if I was
the German Priest whom the wife of the
keeper of his prison had mentioned to him,
and whether I entertained good religious
principles. I told him that having been fe
dueed by the Bishop of Lydda, I had taken
the oath ; that I had long repented of it, and
that I had nevet for a moment changed my
religious principles, and that I was only
waiting for a favourable opportunity to re
traft the oath. The Dulse then knelt down
before me, and asked me if he had yet time
enough left to make a general confeffion.—
I told him that he had, and that no one had '■
a right to interrupt him ; on which he
made a general confeflios of the whole of
' his life. After having confrfled, he asked
me with a peniteocereally fupernatural,whe
ther I believed that God would receive him
into the number of the eleft ; I proved to
him by passages and examples from the Ho
ly feriptures, that his noble repeutance, his
heroic resolution, his faith in the infinite
mercy of God, and his resignation to death
would infallibly save him. " Yes," said he,
" I die innocent of the crime of which I am
■ accused ; may God forgive my fudges as
> I forgive them. I have indeed deserved
death in order to expiate my fins. I have
■ contributed to the death of an innocent per*
' son, and thas has been my bane ; but he
- was too good v not to forgive me ; God will
* join us both with St. Louis." lam not
: able to express how much I was edified bv
r his noble resignation, his sffliftion and his '
* supernatural desire to fuffer every thing in
this and the other world fot= the expiation of
' his fins, of which he talked for a fecoud and
' final abfolutrnn at the foot of the fcaffold.
I Of these particulars you may confidently as
s sure the Duchess.
V " With refpeft to the bishop of Lydda,
t I have nothing to add, except that he told
s me at the commencement of the foi difant
» civil constitution of the clergy, but also the
- do&rines which he preached in his club,
r called the Iron Mouth, refpedling the Agra
rian law, the Franklin oath, &c. and that
1- he profeffed the Roman Catholic and Apof
: tolical religion. This circumstance occafi
-- oned murmurs among rhe guards who were
>e present, who told me aloud that I should
ft be guillotined as well as hfm. The Abbe
ie Fauchet, after having made his confeifion,
heard himfelf that'of S"illery.
n " Of the twenty-one deputiep,there were
1- seven who made their confeffions to me, viz.
t- Duparet, Gaudien, Fauchet, Beauvais, Le
»• Hardi and Vagier ; Ido not recollect the
5- name of the seventh.
" BrifTot, whom I knew, did not make
<n any confeffion, but I remember that the
J > others having asked him whether he believ
'» ed in an eternal life in the other world, and
r - in a state of reward, he answered, " yes."
II Signed, « LOTHRINGER."
in
0 Letter from gen. Hoche, commander in
1- chief of the army of the Sambrj and
ts Meufe, to the Executive Direftory.
h " Wetilaer, 29 Thermidor,
(Aug. 6) fifth year,
n- " You have been called on, citizen di
-1 reftors, Uy a mefiage of the council of sHe
or hundred, to bring before the tribunals th'e
ig persons who signed the orders given to the
at troops for their march into tl . interior.
ig For once M. Wiiiot has spoken my vrifhes
je both to the national representation and to
a- you.
sll " Allow me, therefore, to request of yoa
so to point out the tribunal to which lam to
of apply, to obtain at length the justice to
id which lam entitled. It is time that the
n, French nation should be made acquainted
d- with the atrocity 6f the aceufations repeat
:fs edly brought forward ajjainft me, by men
3/- who, being my petfonal enemies, ought at
least to make their friends, or rather patrons,
~ speak out in a cause which is personal to
them.
om " It is time that the inhabitants of Pari»,
more especially, should know what is uirder
®cf ij:ood by the marking out of limits for the
military ; and should have an explanation
given to them how 9or 12,000 jnen ( J I
will suppose a greater number) can block
ade a city which, at the firft beat of a drum,
or the found of a beil, if the latter be pre
fer ferred, could arm 150,000 of its inhabit
ants for the defence of its property and its
* i law*.
law^w.," is protfiatlCT. Charon (hould
e\?i!:tih hiaiieffas to the presence 0fi3,000
pen in his department, which not one foot
soldier has entered, (the legion of France,
which formed the advance guard of the eo
lilMfj, did not pass le Chene le Poilleux.)
The reft of the troops did not quit the li
nked departments, in which they ftiil remain,
" Finally, 1 demand of yen a tribunal,
to the end that I may obtain for my bre
thran'n arms and rayjelf, that just repara
tion to which we ere entitled. I have been
defcribtd as a seditious man : they have been
treated' as brigands. Our accufevs ought
to bring forward proof of our crimes, and
not the bearfay of M. CWon, who wished
that I (hould not pass through Rheims on
my way to Cologne, notwithftWiiig there
is no other road : they ought to bring
proofs of tlicm by authentic and irrefraga
ble documents. All those which I have
signed are about to appear ; they are alrea
dy in the press. If certain of the soldiery
have teftiiied their indignation at the re
ception tfiey met with on their returning to
their homes, it will be seen that I had a
smaller share in this, than those which were
so much terrified by four regiments of chas
seurs.
" I have long possessed the esteem of the
public, not in the way of certain revolution
ary cut-throats, who are recognized as the
chief agents of Louis XVIII. but in con
fequerfce of having the pretenfionj of a roan
of worth. This title I cannot be expe&ed
to renounce,"for the fake of certain upstarts
who are figuring for a moment on the revo
lutionary scene, and who are as yet known
merely by jnfignificant declamations, and
plans to the utmost extent subversive of eve
ry of good order and government.
(Signed) «« L. ROCHE."
M. Charon has replied to this demand, in
such a manner as must, we think, embarrass
the general.
" My explanation," fays he, " (hall be
clear, short, precise, and true j it 13 extra&ed
from the deliberations of the central admini
stration, transmitted to the.minister of war,
■ to the committee of infpeftors, to the trea
sury, and in the journal of its proceedings of
the i6tb July last.
" Order of cantonmatt given by the ad
jutant general.
' "At Vitry, 2000 light infantry of the
9th demi brigade.
HAt Saint Menehould, 200 ditto Le
gion des Francs.
" At Chalons, 3000 ditto 99th de.tii
brigade.
" At Rheims, 5000 infantry of the line,
108 th demi brigade.
" Altogether 10,200 men.
•' To which are to be added four regi
ments of chasseurs, commanded by general
Ri?hepaufe, and the light infantry, and it is
easy to find 13.000 men, as well infantry a*
cavalry, part of which are yet in the depart
ment either at Rheims, where there have
been as many as 4000 men, as a letter from
th4t place of the 2d inft. states, or else at St.
Menehould and at Courtefdls, where there
are yet two regiments of chasseurs.
" Ought not the cireumftance of 13,000
men having received orders"for cantonment
in a particular territory, though not all of
them reaching it at the fame time, notwith
standing preparations made for that purpose,
to have alarmed the citizens and magistrates,
particularly in a department which had been
the viftim of every system of revolutionary
taxation, and ought not the magistrates, in
that cafe unable to defend themfclves, to
have applied to a superior authority, and have
prevented by their cares the dangers with
which they were threatened ?
" Neither the central adminiftrafion nor
myfelf were capable of fufpedling any wrong
from the defenders of the country, whose
exploits it has more than once celebrated
through my organ, nor of seeking to de
prive them of the public esteem. Had we
thought it poflible that some great attempt
**was meditating, we (hould, jfcalous of ful
filling our duty as citizens and magistrates,
have employed those means which nature
and the lav/s entrust us with, and recolledted
that the constitutional afl which confides to
ut the honorable and sacred prerogative of
convoking the French people, in cafe of the
dissolution of the legislative body, imposes
on us the duty of securing them from tyran
ny ; we (hould, if our efforts and our cries
had been ineffectual, like the Roman feira'
tora, exterminated in the streets of Rome,
while fitting in their ivory chairs, have af
forded our co.untrymen, thus threatened with
(laverr, a last: example of our devotion to
pur country, and of our refpeft to the na
tional representation."
Reply of the two united committees of the
infpe&orr of the Kail, of the council of
elders and five hundred, to the letter of
citizen Raroel, commandant of the guard
of the legislative body.
" We do not stand in need, citizen col
leagues, of the new affuranfces which you
give us, in order to appreciate the disposi
tions of the corps of grenadiers and their
chiefs towards the legislative body. Men
who have done so much for liberty, can never
abandon it, and give way to fa&ions which
seek to annihilate it, and with it the con
stitution of the 3d year. If we had only
this ftcurity it,would be fufficient ; but we
have yet further testimonies, in the exiA
difeipline which they preserve, and which
we every day witness. The testimony which
we are thus anxious of rendering them, we
wi(h to propagate ; and we doubt not that
it will destroy all the which can
fubfiil; and that our colleagues will be as
anxious to applaud this coudutt as •'our
fclves." r '
[Signed by the members of the two com
mittees.]
PORTSMOUTH, Aug. 25.
This mornj.Dg arrived at Spithead the
Bedford andM.elampus, two of Rear Adriii
\ ral Curtis's fqu«dr«i,-from the Textl,.where
they left Admiral Duncan's fleet cruizing ;
but there was no appearance whatever of
the Dutch putting to sea.
MILFORD, August 23.
Sailed hence this day his majesty's (hips
Chapman and Lord Mu'.graye, with a large
fleet bound round land, among which was
the Small Bridge transport, having on board
the remainder of the French troops that
larlded near this port.
By this day's Mail.
1
j NEW-YORK, O&ober jo.
j Extraft of a letter from Niagara, dated
September 29.
j " The only news we have here, is the
■ sale of the Lands lying- on the .otht:r'fide of
the river, to Mr. Morris, by the Senecas ;
; there arc about three millions of acres, out
| of which they have retained 200,000 iri dif- j
I ferent places—The terms we do not yet
/ know, as the Indians are not yet returned
from the fale,which was effeited at Genefee.
We may now expgdl to fee the other fide
fettiing fall:; it is a very fine country, and j
no doubt will fell in lots very high.
" The Americans have appointed a new !
commanding officer here; since his arrival,
the troops have been under arms every night
tell for fear of the Indians—although thane
are none nearer than eighty miles, being as
quiet as ever in their villages, and
fatisfied with both governments. Every
body thinks it is merely a scheme, " to keep
the mens' noses more to the grind-stone,"
as their times are nearly out; and the com
mander, who is a Swiss, thinks they have
had too idle a life."
Great military and other preparations are
making at the city of New-Brunfwick, for
' the reception and entertainment of the Pre
sident of the United States, on his return to
feat of government, who is to dine with
the citizens of that place on Thursday the
9th of next month.
The apparent return of health to our sister
city, and the consequent ftfr among the j
commercial citizens of that place at this
lively season o'f the year, will not fail to
prove a source of felicitation to the citizens
at large, as well as highly advantageous to
individuals whose exteufive maritime con
cerns would render absence a serious incon
venience.
JiVednefday the 18th inft. the Festival of
the Apostle and Evangelist St. Luke, was
the day appointed for the consecration of the
Rev. Abraham Jarvis, D. D. to the Epis
copate of the (late of Conne&ieut.
Died—On Friday last, Thomas Randal,
Esq. in the 74th year of his age, after a
long and painful illness. His remains were
interred in the family-vault in the burial
ground of Trinity Church, attended'by nu
merous relations and friends, who lamented
their loss, in this valuable citizen and ufeful
.member of society.
BOSTON, Oflober 24.
By capt. Hawkes, in.4B days from Lif
feon, we learn that Ad. Jarvis continued the
blockade of Cadiz up to the time of his
failing.
We (hould imagine from eapt. Baker's
requiring provKioiie in a very few days after
failing irom Cadiz that the city mult be
in conGderafcle tfiftrefs for food.
Jarvis appears to be under no dread of a
foriie from the Spanish embargoed fleet ; for
he has very recently made a further detach
ment from his squadron, to convoy the
Spani(h prizes from Lisbon to England-
CASUALTIES.
On Saturday afternoon a Senior fell from tht
forelop of the Jhip Packet, tying at the t ong
wharf, <whither he hadgone to indulge himfelf
with a nap. He received but little injury, but
•was carried to the Aim's house to lodge till his
complete recovery.
On Friday, white the Providence Jlage was
on the road from this to that town, the steps get
ting looft, the Driver jumped form his box, and
while employed in fajlening them up the horses
Jlarted. He run and caught hold of the reins
of the horses next the Coach, but not being able
toflop them, was thrown down, and the horses
and carriage passed over him. After running a
bout quarter of an hour, the hinder hourfe fell,
and the others necejfardyflopped ;in a few mi
nutes, the Driver cams up to the Carriage, to
the greatjoy bfth; passengers who were much alar
med not being able ta extricate themselves from
the carriage ; but fottunately the adventure en
ded with a little injury to the carriage alone.
.Died At Bridgwatter, the 19th injl.
Njthak KiNGM.It I, eldejl fori of eapt. Ezra.
Kingman, aged 11 years. His death was 01-
cafioned by attempting togetout of the forward
part of the the team he was driving
was moving qwek doivn a descending piece of
Land 1 he unforttrtatcly fell under the wheels
which passed iver the middle of his body, which
forro wful accident he survived pbout 16 hour:
in great distress, and then expired.
At Converitry Mr. Us wall Greln aged 102
His father was in Cromwell's ai-my, and
fought 11 pitched battles, and brought a sword
to this country which he wore in those engage
ments.
RUTLAND, (Vermont) Oft. 23.
The post from Windsor confirms the ac
ceptance of the hon. Isaac Tichenor, as go
vernor of this ftati—His excellency address
ed the assembly on the occasion, in a very
ample and elegant manner—which, with
their answer, will appear in the Herald next
week.
The hon. Nathaniel Chipman, Esq. is
elefted senator in Congress, for this diftriit ;
and the hon. Israel Smith chief justice of the
fuprcme court, in this state. David Whit- j
ney, Esq. is appointed major general of the 1
fourth divifioti of militia in this state—and
Eli Coggfwell, Efq major general of the
second division.
[0& Infer ted by requefl.~\
Monday lalt, the several military compa.,
■ flies, (viz. capt. Walker's artillery, a ;d.capt.
Gove's cavalry) together with a refpe&able
cqncourfe of other citizens, agreeable to
appointment, met at Mr. Farrar's inn, in
this town, for the purpose of celebrating the
election of our now governor Ticbenor
About two o'clock, an elegant entertain
ment was prepared, the proceedings .in
troduced with a fumptuoiti fcafi—After
which, the military psraded, for the purpose
of performing their usual exercises, and
the fpeftators were gratified with an
• ample difplayof military mancpyvres—which
wa« concluded by a di'faharge of cannon, in
honor of his excellency gov. Tichenor. In
the evening all was feftivity—the citizens
again assembled—and the evening was clos
ed in hilarity, while order and regularity
added dignity to the scene.
THE BALL.
On Thursday last, a very liberal enter
tainment was made by Mr. Farrar, of this
town. At an early hour in the afternoon,
a large and refpe&able, number of ladies
(and at evening a similar number of gentle
men) aflembled ; and after partaking of a
i most elegant repast, the hall was illuminated,
and prepared for the ball; where the * sons
and daughters of mirth," liberally partici-'
I pated in the agreeable amusement ofdancing.»!
RICHMOND, (Virg.) O&ober 25.
COMMUyJcA no N.
LAW Intelligence.
Yesterday was decided, in the Court of
Appeals, the cafe of M'Call against Turn- j
er ; in which the Judges gave au opinion u ;
pon several points ; arid, among others, u
pon the great question, whether interest be
demandable-for the time of the revolution
ary war, upon a bond, which was original
ly due to a person, who was absent, during
the war, in tire Britifb Dominions, and.
which continued to be due to him. The
ftntiments, then delivered by the Court,
will bear the test of the fevrreft discussions,
and did great honor to the judges, who fat
in the cause. They concurred in jthe judg
ment, that interest was not demandable for
the period of the war.
| It is a great blefling tb'our country, that
Mr. Pendleton, has paffeil h!s seventy
' fifth year, still njarjifefts the fame perfpicu-
I ity, vigour of mind, comprehension and
1 power of argument, for which he has al
ways been distinguished. Long may he,
and his illustrious fellow-labourer in juris
prudence, Wythe, be exceptions, as they'
now are, to the supposition, contained in
the constitution of New-York, that after
the age of sixty-years, no man can be fit
for a feat on a judicial benah.
ALEXANDRIA, Oaober 26.
Yesterday arrived 111 town the' Chevalier
Yrujo, ambassador from the court of
Spain.
Xfte a&asettt.
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVENING, Octobcr 31.
Mr. Finno,
In reading the histories of tdifcoveries,
we observe not only the virtues and talents,
but likewise the vices that are attendant up
on human nature. Few authors can bene
fit mankind without perfetufion, and at
tempts of the basest kind to destroy their
well deserved reputation have been, the ge
neral consequence. Envy pursues merit as
the shadow follows the substance. Such
con«lil£t to those "who deserve oor warmest |
gratitude, places the human chartider in
the worst point of view. Dr. Hervey, by
the discovery of the circulation of the
blood, laid the foundation for the. most
u'feful improvements in medical science.
Few of his cotemporaiies, whom age had
rivctted to their prejudices, comprehended
or believed it ; and it was reserved for the
younger part of the profeffion to propagate
a doftrin?, which, without any farther
proofs of its truth, is now perceived instan
taneously by every fludent of medicine.
The force of education and of dulnefs were
bayicrs not only to the advancement of
this truth, but were fufficitntly powerful
to deprive this generous benefatlor of tiearly
all his praftice. Envy however flopped not
here ; for when his cotemporarics were
obliged to adopt the opinion, they attempt
ed to tSrnifh his reputation by ascribing the
discovery to some French* physician, and
some even gave the merit to the venerable
Hippocrates.—Such is the power of truth,
and such are the fubterfuges of the envious.
The idea of being ufeful to mankind sup
ported D. Hervey under the prefTure of
persecution and poverty, and he trusted
that an unprejudiced and benefited posterity
wiuld do him justice. They could not
obviate the penury that the excrcife of his
talents brought upon him, but have consi
dered him as extlufively entitled to the merit
of difeoveripg the circulation of the blood.
They have condemned Jtis persecutors ; but,
upon a similar occasion, hive imitated their
example. Dr. Rush has introduced into
p'raftice, in this city* calomel and bleeding
in bilious complaints, and has difeovered
the efficacy of salivation in triumphing oyer
them. H® to ° has received a large share of
persecution ; and envy, forced into the eon
viftion of the propriety of these remedies,
is now attempt Trig to throw a shade. over
his charadter; but the benefited cities, his
country, and alt posterity, will eventually
do him justice. Hervey and Sydenham,
Descartes and Galileo, have each'fhared his
fate. Malice and ignorance have thought
him an objedl wortTiy'bf persecution. It
is to be-hoped, however, that the aspersions
of a few will not pre vert him from prose
cuting his enquiries, and that his talents
.will still be employed in the service of man
kind. An OBSERVER.
Died, on the 27th inft. at Mileftown,
about 7 miles from the city, Mr, Robert
Faris, only son of Mr. John Fan's, of
the state of Delaware.
Cl'rr HOSPITAL REPORT,
From 27th to $ 1 ft 111 ft. in the morning",
1 abstracted.
Admitted, 27 th, Jane Black, Fifth-ftreet
between Spruce and Pine streets.
- 2?-th, 29th and 30th, None.
Due larged—27th, Joseph Craycroft, ad
mitted 15th inft.
29th, John Laymon, admitted 12th.
Robert Butler, „
Died, NONE. ' '
Interred in the Hospital Ground, o<ft. 30,
From City or Suburbs, 1 °
'Remain in Hospital,
One of whom is dangerous.
i -
I CO" The Alderman's Court for the city
of Philadelphia will be opened on Monday
next, the 6th of November, at the citv.
hall as usual. Those whu have bulinefs in
the said court are requested to be pundtual
in their attendance, at ten o'clock in the
forenoon.
O&ober 31, 1797.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVE!)
Arrived, brig Polly, Wroth, Jeremie.
Left there, 12th inft.
Brig James, Gemmeny.of this port 1 jnft ?.r-
Ehza, O Connor, do. 1 rived.
Touch'd at .the Mole, and came out in
company with
Sch. Phcebe, Smith, for this port.
And several others for different ports of the
U. S. under cor.voy of a (loop of war and
an armed packet.
Arrrived fch. Alciope, Rice, 16 days
from Port au Paix. She was carried into
that port and condemned, vefltl and cargo.
With capt. Rice came pafTengers, the cap
tains of the following vessels condemned,
See. at that por;.
Ship Sally, Clark, of Norfolk
Goddess c\f Plenty, Churnfide, Philad.
Brig , Codicil, of New-York
Sloop Fn'endfhip, Norfolk
Brig Amelia, Houston (purchased) was to
fail for this port shortly after the Alciope.
Capt. Rice informs, that about the 9th
inft. the Magicienne, Britilh frigate, cap
tured 9 fail of French privateers, most of
them schooners, in the neighbourhood of
Port au Paix.
Ship Elizabeth, Bray,from the Havanna,
is below. (Long pa (Tage.)
Sch. Little John, Pease, of this port, has
arrived at Baltimore from the Havanna.
Sch. Sarah, Jarvis, failed from Liverpool
for this port, the 25th August. (Boft. pap.)
New-Tork oSober 28.
ARRIVED. DAYS
Ship Shcpherdefs, Hand, Savannah 7
Molly, Dickfoa, . Hull 70
Brig Lucy, Clark, St. Domingo 2a
Humility, Jefsman, Leghorn 150
Sch'r Polly, Chace, Savannah 8
St. Patrick, , Curraco 20
Sloop Cornelia, Clark, Norfolk 3
Cbarlejlen, 03obcr 17.
Yesterday arrived the (Jiip Canton, Coffin,
Isle of France, 98 days.
A ship under Danilh colours, supposed
to be the Republican, from Bremen, took
a pilot on board yesterday to the Southward
of the bar. *
Capt. Coffin informs, that the Isle of
France appeared to be in perfeft tranquil
lity,. and the slaves under the' ftrifteft sub
ordination j that the produce of the colo
nies was exceedingly high, and American
produce as low in proportion ; that many
American vessels have touched there from
Bmirdeaux, and proceeded on to Bangal.
Nine French frigates and fifteen privateers,
were out upon the different coasts of India
cruising against the English,■ and a number
of valuable prizes taken by them were daily
arriving. Good accounts were, received at
the Isle of France of an English squadron,
to the number of eight or ten ships, fitting
in Madras roads, for some secret expedition
reported to be destined against Manilla; but
the French seemed to mistrust, that their
intention was to pay them a visit; they talk
ed lightly of it, as they thought their Island
proof against the whole naval force that the
English had in the East-Indies. They see
med to be under some apprehension for their
sister colony of Bourbon. The generality
of the people appeared to be quite arifto
cratical in their principles, and talked
very loud against the present government of
France, without the least refervS as to time
or place. ( They pay great refpedt co the
American flag ; and the government, in its
dealings, behaved very honorably. Paper
money was depreciated to a very low ebb,
but there appeared to be plenty of coin in
circulation. They had heard from Europe
that Ahe governments of France and Ameri
ca laboured under some mifundcrftanding,
which they seemed much to regret. There
was news circulating and generally credited,
that the English in India were at war with
some of the country powers. A number of
French vessels were daily arriving fromßata
via with rice. . A Danffh company ship had
arrived from Canton, dismasted ; and a Da
nish ship was standing trial, supposed *0 be
English property.
Captain Coffin left in the Isle of France,
two brigs fipm Salem, and one bark, all
bound to Bengal.
Tie ships Belifariue and Ocean had failed
about ten days for the fame plate.
Left at Bourbon, ship Nancy, of New-
York, captain Butler, bound to Batavia.
Came passenger in the Canton, captain
John Boyd, of Boston. ,
g3- Uuiverfity of Pennsylvania
OSober 27, 1797.
THE different Schools of the University will be
opened on Monday, the 6th of November ; of
whieh, all who are concerned, are requested to
take notice.
By otder sf the Faculty.
Wm. ROGERS, Secretary,
For Sale,
BY THE SUBSCRIBE tSj
No. ai, Penn-ftreet,
' Cargo of the (hip Ganges, John Green, cor.--
man "cr, from Bengal,
Cofjyfing of
d- Baftas, of various qualities & prices
Punjum C.it is
Sanahs Guzz y do.
Humhums Charcouna Dorea
h - Blue Cloth Tjuij b»
, ' Chintz and Calicoes MulmuU
11 • Mamoodys Checks
V h-ragongcs Patca Hiikfi.
0, Ginghams Mnlnfiul do
Guzzenas Bandannoss
Currahj Silkrtoy
O Piniafcoes Choppa Romals
Salgatchys Scr.t'y do.
Gillie RomaU Perfiansof variouscolour*
Mock Pulicats
sqo tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
J_ lYiUmgi & Francis.
0" la, tbe course of a few days, Ihe PIECE
" GOODS, cempofing tile cargo of th« ship Ganges,
li will be for laic- at that large* commodious
e Store, the northv/eft corner of Market and Fourth
streets. where a bale of every fpieiei of Goods will
be open. d QSt. 31.
LANDING,
. From on board the ship Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, frsm Louden,
60 tons of the belt clean Russia
HEMP
60 raftsof bottled BROV/M STOUT.
For iale by the fubferi'nera, No ir, Fcrin- 1 ]reet.
Wtilings if Francis.
oa. 31 . .
Wharton and Lewis,
have pon s,!!E,
At their Store and Iniur:trice Olrcc for
No. ir<, South Front I'trcct,
e Jamaica Rum, ith proof, ■> entitled to
d Ahcant Era-dy, \[\ &*d proof j drawback.
Madeira Wins, and
A f*.w of Juniper Berries.
* , ptf _
- i or London,
! ' M^PENN,
J° fiah » Mafler,
\/"' ' with ail roaven
" "• xus ~\\ ient expedition -For
Freight or PafDge, apply to tlj: Captain, cr to
JcJ/e if Robert Wain.
0 ' oa -.3i- £
h For Charter,
JC*** THE SHIp
f J obn Bul kley,
Samuel Volans, Majlcr.
\ HIS v<ffel '* tuHt of live oak
> " " X and cedar, of about 30CO
barrels burthen, and ready to receive on beard a
s cargo.
JeJJe If Robert Wain.
,1 Oil. 31. $
) " ~ NOTICE. ~
A Meeting of the General Board, of the
s Guardians of the Poor, for the pity of Phi
-7 ladelphia, and fubutbs, will be held at the
D Old City Court-House, on Thursday next,
a the 2d of November, at J o'clock, P. M.
0 Those Gentlemen whose time expired on
8 the 25th of September last, and who have
D unsettled accounts with the Board, are par
-3 ticularly requested to attend.
PETER MIERCKEN, Pres.
, Southwari, 30 th 03. 1797. 1 3/.
Young Ladies of Philadelphia?"
THE I'ublic are refpeflfully informed, that
•J the laid Academy will be open on Monday, the
1 sixth of Nov. init. fir the reception of pupils.
JOHN POOR, Principal.
f . dst.
All Persons,
TNBFBTEDtp the Eftateof Jg^phJohn*
. 1 ion, o Germantown, in the county of Phi
j ladelphia, deceased, ore deQred imrne
. diate payment, and those who have any demandi
agamll !aid estate, are delired to bring forward
their accountsto e : lher of the fubferibers
ELIZABETH JOHNSON,
, JOHN JOHNSON, Jun. [ Adminiftr',.
1 JOHN JOHNSON, 3
Germantown, icth no, 17th, 1707-
q t? t.
L In the Press,
. And speedily will be publiflied by William
No. J2, Second, the corner of
' Chefnut Street,
; -d view
Of the Science of Life ;
j On the principles enabliflied in tlis elementj
of Medicine, of the late Celebrated
; JOHN BROWN, M. D.
With an attempt t,o corredl some important er
r 1 ors cf that woi k, arid cases in illullration, chief
ly feV<sVd from the ivcords of their pradlice, at
- the G neral Hospital at Calcutta,
P Br WILLI M YATES tfi CHAS. Mkclrak.
\ To which is subjoined, a Treatise on the afiion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
" tion i'or the cure of diseases of indireil debility,
i AmJadifTertation on the sources of Epidemicand
r Peflilentialdifeafes; in v.hichisattcmpledtopr»v:
, by a numerout induction of fadls, that they ne
j ver arile from contagion, but are always produ
b ced by c ertain slates, or certain vicjfiitudes of
the atmosphere, by Charles MaclfalP, of
" Calcutta.
' I?i2t .
- IVants a Place, as a WET
7 \ VOUNG Woman, who can be well rccom
-1 -LX mended—Enquire of the Printer.
f OAoherji. Iw
— 1 r>
i Mordecai Lewis,
HAS It SALE,
e At his Store, No. 25, Great Doc'j-ftreet,
250 bales of Bengal Goods
% Containing Bafcas
J Colfas
Gurrahs
, Moratugungcei
Took^ry
Check and Stripes
Bandano Handkerchief
Mameody
1 Calico«s
li boxes Irish Linens
I do. Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
20 canisters Java Sugar
78 hags black Pepper
e I' 6 do. East India Ginger
if ioo adks roll Erimfton.
o 7- pipes Madeira Wine
57 casks Gin
A quar tjty of {heatbing Copper a A Nai!t.
oaobtr 30. " i aw»wTo be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If nr! before disposed of at private fate) j u J( .
ON Friday, the (irlt of December next, at fix
o'clock in <he evening, « the Merchants' Cos- ne ,
fee Ftoufi', i» Philadelphia* Forty Thousand
Jlu.idnd and Thiity Nine ac.rei '' l '""PH
m.wr.t i«e in ihc County of Wafti.ngfon, and Cora, I
~f Pennsylvania, and .... the waters of *■
tcil. ...a WlKeli '.; Creeks and let. Mile Run— "1
TVfe I ds arc ferii'cand well timbered, and were 1
We.i.ecd ■ »>ly in ijij, except 3 »00 ace, or therca- mnh
lwu:». wliicb were patented .it i? 9». 9" e r °!"/
of :h- pnrchafe money t« be paid at the time o. fate, (hew
for 'he refuiue a credit of one, two and three months, jC h
will he given, on intcrell and good Security. I
Oftoher 6. aawtS i
To be Sold at Public Vendue, j
(If not before disposed of at private fate) Lej
ON F.iday, the tint day of December, at fix
o'clock in th; evening, at the Merchants Coffee
Hol.fr. in Philadelphia, Twenty S.k I houfand Se
van Ku dred a„d F.i'hry acres of UND, in the
State of New-Yorkrbeiween the northern bounds
of Pennsylvania and the Sulquehanna, now, or late,
in the town (hips of Hamden and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery One /onrthi of the: purchase
money is ... be paid at the time of sale ; for the .e- ]
hdtie a credit of one, two,and three months will be ,
tivrn. on interett and good security.
g Ofofe 6.
PF;ALE'S Museum.
T'HIS valuable repository of the works of Na
ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the undemanding, is opened daily, as (
ulual. It Hands in an airy and healthy fituat.on, |
ind free front the epidemic that at prefer,t assies
the city ; it may, therefore, be frequented with
th Xn e of Nature „ the
moll rational and pleating : as a Science, the mo
iubiime and inOru flivc. It elevates the mind and ( £
expands the heart. ' hoy ~ r . f ry 0
u ijritm Nature's worh can ctarm, ■with bi-t btmjtif KNA
" Hn'J Cmvcrfi." trtrnr
Many interring additions have lately been j ow
made to this Museum : and the feathered tribe, j ate
containing a variety of the moll rare and beautiful ; muc
fubicdls, :s now very advantageoufty arranged.; gc
Waxen Figures,of Men large as life (some of them Sout
calls from mfbre) are here dreffediti tneir proper j t
habitS and placed -n attitudescharaacr.shc of their
relue<sti*e nations. Here may be lee» the North-
A merican Savage, and the ravage of South-Amert- ,
ca—a laboring Chi.iefe, and the Chincfe Gentle- ]
man—the sooty African, and the Kamtfchadale
with some Natives of the South Sea Islands. Ire
imaicnl'e variety and interesting diversity which
this Mufcum offers to the view, may be seen but J-jj
.anno: be described with full ess»&. tion
0" -Price only l-+th of a dollar.
heyt. 1% —— dy <
Just Received, v
From Baiavia (via Providence) jon,
a few Boies of Spices, consisting of edit
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace 'tow
Fur sale by puh
HILLINGS y FRANCIS, \
i Penn-ftreet. Pen
way to dtf L n '
■ —; Pra
Davis s J,aw Bonk Store,
iVlp. 319* High-Strest» pa,
davis, j...
BY.ln'o btified for some time r aft r rt P" a " " n ,
tion* for removing into his prolent house, has
been under thetKcellityof poflponingumil thisday "
Informing the gentlemen otth* Bar generally thro
the llr.ted States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and reauy for lale, on
terms that he truUs will entitle him to the like pre- _
freeuce he has experienced for teveral years past.
Catal r ucs, combining tht mofl varied collet <
tion ever imported Mto this country, arc printed
and will be delivered on application.
T ftaw 6w x
• . J une *7: r,
City CommiJJioners Office, pi
June U, 1797- t0
IN i>urfuar.ce of an ordinawce from the (cfc6l ac
and common councils, parted the aid day of *
Mav last, appointing the city c«mimimoncri,
and urefcribing their duties, fcflion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEKEBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five dillrtifls, |
each to be under the fi.perintendance of one of
tte city conimifTmners, whoiSto be indiv,dually si
relponCble for the cleanlirtefs of the fame, and t ,
ateasfollsw. n
Driftricl No. 1. From the fo-ith fidt of Ce- m
dar-ftreet, to the north fide c£Spruce-flreet, tm
rthe fuperiatendence of NWun Boys,
a From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
,he north fide of Walnut-ftre<t, under the fuper
ir.iendence of Hugh Roberts. 4
- From the north fideot Walauttotfcefouth
fide of under the fupermtendcnce of
JolepU Hi gh -ftreet, to the
north fid.- of Mulberry street, under the super
intendence of Williafni Moulder.
- ' From the north fide of Mulherry-ftreet td
the north fide of Vine-street, under the super- '
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaningof High-street to be in com«on. I
rf x Hated meeting of the city comrai(Tion
held at the Old Court House, in High- ■
street, every Tuesday evening at % o clock
July '4- j eolr " -
Standi for Draymen, &c.
\ j„ purjuanet of an Ordinance from tbeSelefi and
Conmon Counc:h, bearing date the lid day of
jipril, 1797. providing for the appointment of
City Commijp.oners, i 3 c. Se3- tht 15th.
r-r.BE following places are fixed upon by the
1_ said City Coinmiffioners for btands tor
Dravmen and their Horses.
In Vine-ilreet, caftward of Front-flrest, on
bo SalTafr S a's ) High,Chefout and Walnut-fttreets,
•sflward ot Front-ftreet,on the no, th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to
1 eaft fide from Vine-street to
from opposite to Black Horfeal-
Jevto tfimiUon's stores, call fide.
Waier-ftreet, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Mdor.'s (lores to Pine-street.
Penn-llreet from Pine to Cc Jar-street, weft
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine >nd South llreets, saftof rroßt
1 ftr Dork4t' h et, C between Walnut-street and the
fc? stone croffuigs, east fide, opposite George
°Second-ftfefct, between Safaris and Vine
eaft fide from Chefnut to Mul-
from Third to Fourth-ftrcet,
" a No dray or horse to stand within ten feet of
M lSbs FOR HACKNEYCO ACHES
Pii.e-ftreet, north fide from I'ourth to Fifth
' ft FHth-ftreet, between Chefnut and Walnut
north fide, bet ween Third and
Fourth greets. fm
July i -
-
A Literary Treat.
... . , • • From <
JuJl pMJhed, handfomly printed on writing
paper, price I dollar, 21
A new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, entitled
THE FORESTERS, an American Tale ; beiifg
L a sequel to the hiliory of John Bull, tne Clo
thier—ln aftriesof letters to a friend, with thpad
• dition of tw 0 letters, alluding to recent political
rranfc&iotis in Amcricn.
1 The following eitrail fionv the Clavia AUegonca,
, (hews the principal charaiters that are introduced:
John BIIIL, the Kingdom of England
HK Mother, the Church of England 1
His Wife, the Parliament I m;
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland t }, e f
His Brother Patrick. Ireland street
Lewis, the Kingdom of France
. His Mistress, the Old Conftitutibn
\ His ntw Wife, the National Rcprefentation J m
1 Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
e Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
s The Franks, the French Republic
, The Forellcrs, the UnitedStatesof Amerua
Robert X.umber, New-Hampihire
e John Codline, jflallacbufetts
Humphrey Plowshare, ConneAicut
e Roger Carrier, P.hode lfland ~
Peter Bull Frog, New-York (
Julius Cafar, Aew-Jerfey
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
Caifimar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia .»
Hi. Grandson, George Wafhingtca A h,
d J Peter Pitch, North Carolina « IIR
5 Charles Indigo, Soutk Carolina the ci
'> I George Trully, Georgia P l '^'
s Ethan GreAwood, Vermont
h Hunter Longknife, Kentuclqr CCIV ®
Black Cattle', Negro Slaves '° 1)1
*5 Rats, Speculators '
'J Mather Carey's Chicken., Jacobins f"
1 This popular and entertaining fatincalhillo- thee
ry "of Anurica is attributed to the Rev. Dr B*l- iuovji
V knap. It hasa great Ihare of originality snd a- v,-
btjwnds with genuine humour. It is continued gulal
n down to the present time, and chwaftenfes thole
e > late political tranfaclions which have caused to '■fQ
! much umeafinefs in America. a
d - Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
m , South Second Street, and No. 50, Marke* ftjeet.
Z. J unel6 - a A
t LAW BOOKS, ~ ncw
c- Latest London and Dublin Editions. A
H. £sf P. RICE, Booksellers, Fo:
V No. Is, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
C IT AVE j u st received by the l?te arrivals Irora
U 11 London and Dublin, their spring importa
tion, confilling of a variety of the hteft and molt V
approved 1 aw Books, which, adde< to those alrea
— dy on hand, forms the mod eatenfive colle&ionev
er offered for sale in this country. Thej the. efore on
bee leave to notice, that from the nature of their
oonne&icnsin Dublin, they areenahl*tto f<rillri!h pre:
editions (a» they have hitherto donfl at the very tiur
♦lowed prices. The following are among the latelt
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, a s\..s.
Peake's Cases at Nisi Vriu. ; Ridgeway's Report,
in the hme of Lord Hardwicke ; Floyer's Pi oilers
Pradlice ia the Ecctefiaflical Courta ; Barton s ■
Treatise on a Suit in Eq.iiay ; TiJd's Prac.icc of lire
the «ourt or King's Bench in Personal Anions, t ty
pirts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations; Cruifc wa
I oil Uses ; imodvn Reports, I» vols. Loadon edi- sou
ira- tion. - . **
H. and P.Rica aitpeft t« receive by the firlt ar- en
rtav rival from New-Yarfc the 6th vol. complete of t io
, ro > Durnfortl and East's Reports, Gil
.j 0 f beri's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number 01 p r(
on new publications. foi
pre- June a 6. pn
f: Th« History of Pennlylvania,
lted | Bv ROBERT PROUD,
Ig now in the press, and will be publilhed,
wkh all convenient expedition, by ZtCHA- L
RIAH v Pr>ULSON, juri. No. 80, Chelnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptiens will continue
, to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
■letfl according ta the printed proposals, »ntil the
vo f work is ready for the fubferibera. f 3
, y erS( July .8. Mwtf - ft
The Partnerfliip, «
A T TNDER the firm of FREEMAN er Company,
J. U is dissolved by mutual confeat. All persons n
,C ,, having any demands against the said House are dc
y fired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and »j
and those indebted to theHoufe aredefired to make pay- ( .
ment to him—By whom business will in future bfc v
Ce " « rr ied on,at his Store, No. J9,South Front-street. f
»W- Augv ji 7 . eod * w
t, to Richard and James Potter
jper- HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
4 5, South Fifth-ftrcet.
"outh /.uguft e.
ct °' ~Lancatler, Harrijburgh Cariijle,
othe ' Sbtppenjburg and Sunbury
uper-
STAGES.
uper- THHE public are requested to take notice, that
' JL the partnerlhip which Ims for some »ime fub
filled betweon Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now dissolved: but, not as M.
Hi,,}, Sloneh intinuatesto the public without jufl cause ;
, 8 as will more fully appear by a letter on the fuh
._ jea from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the ijtn
- December last. a recital of which is *ot now deem
ed necessary. Auy gentleman who wiihes to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
9 and this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
iay of the p eru sal »f M. Slongh's letter, and then can be
\ertt of at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfefily jnftifiable in attaching hini
by the f„if to auy other person in the profedution of the
ds for Stage conveyance fron* Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
:et, on Now from tbe liberal and generous fappors the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
ttreets, this bufineft, William Geer, in conjunction v/ith
e only. Messrs. Reily, Weed and V/itmer, is determined
•out to toprofecute and carry it on, with evsry care, at
ter.tion anddifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
-eet to lie can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
C with carriages, horse*, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fife and commodious, inform
j c those wno wilb to patronize and encourage the
len 0 undertaking, that they can take their feats at
n George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
l » W Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
l e r et - Carl.a. and Shippenfburg. The fate as hitherto
i rroßt e st a blished.
For the further accommedation ol the public,
nd the a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
George 0 f Samuel Elder, in Harrifbnrg, arrive at Sun
bur* in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
d Vine and' return from thcuce and aiTive at Harnlburg
every Saturday, so that passengers destined for
o Mui- Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed oa Mon
i-ftrcet, WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 7,7, 1797-
feet of N B This Line of Stages starts from the
house of William Ferroe, in Lancaster, on every
HES. Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
-0 Fifth ceediiig to the westward; and Irom the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harnlburg every Wednef-
Walnut day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippentbdrg, and returns
ird and from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily a. in its tour from
tfim P* 11 *-
Will be Landed,
From onboard the fliip Aftive, Capt.BLAilt,from u 10
Hambuigb,
20 bales white Ruflia clean Hemp
2 calks Clover Seed &
For Sale by v £
Thomas Herman Leuffer, " Th<
NorthHfth 11-rcet, No. 34.
Tune 26. $ In wh
Young 1 ea.
40 chests of a superior quality—- Alio,
100 do.of Hylon, 4 ( f v"
Imported in the IVovdrop Sims, and for sale by cf the
the fubferiber, corner of Second and I'ine Unite,
street. , P erson
c. Height gp
Tnne 21. sol ' Monn
imported m the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South mi|4oi]
Front-street, that t ,
Hyson I was t
IJyfon Skin (.TEAS
Young Hyson (
Imperial J will b
April IP. cash.
Thomas Armat and Son, ——
OF PHILADELPHIA,
INFORM their curtoraers and Ihe public, they
have removed a part of their merchandize to
Wilmington : Also, they have their store open in C L^ S '
the city. At either place their friends can be sup- ty s ec ,
plied, and their orders carefully attended to. States
By the Cumberland, Jpom Hull, they ha*e re- tri6l,
ceived a handsome aflVrtraent of at titles, suitable the r
to the approaching season ; and expedt to add to it word
by other fall (hips. " <
Should the sickness prevail in the central part of «
the city, tkat branch of their business will be re-, 11 C( j
moved to Germantown. " of :
The communication by post is open and r«- •« Se(
gnl.ir as *fual. " Wi
Sept. 18. t^l " In 1
fOBE SOLD VERT CHEAP 7
A Light W A GGON almost with a frame—
and a pair of haraipfs (Engliflt collars) has never ctors
been used—price 90 Dolls. t ; Ol]e
A Horse 16 hands high, seven years old—and a
new chair, with a falling top and harness— 3to.
Enquire No. 331, Market-ftreCt
Aujruft cllv !
For sale or to be let on ground- At
rent ' ants
' A valuable Lot of Ground ; n;„i
J Q ITU ATE on the north-eift corner of Wal- an(J
O nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State- l6 _
House square. This tot ii fifty-one feet front agtn
e on Walnut flrelt, and one hundred and thirteen fide(
r i fret and an half on Fifth street ; there are it Th(
1 j present two small two story brick houfen, and a cQn ,
y | number of small tenements thereon. in
t Stre
Also, for Sale,
'■ Two three story Brick Houses
:! With convenient stores, wharf, See. situate on
•» Water-street, between Mulberry and Saflafras £,O
if streets, containing in front on Water street nf
-2 ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth eall- r-r
fc ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the | 1
i- south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses SAJ
ave the conveniance of a public alley adjoining tio:
r- on the north fide, and are a very desirable Gtua- | ceu
of tion for a merchant, floyr faflor.or others who lou
l * miy have occafior. for storage of goods. Tins , dra
of property will be Told on very reasonable torms j
for cafli. For further information apply to the ?
printer.
- July 31- m&Wtf p a
T O B E SO L D, dri
, j Atul polfejjion given immediately ,
\ LARGE two story brick House, handfo'mely Bil
" A fituatcdin Princeton. Th*e are four rooms uti
" ' and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret,-a range of back buildings 51 feet in
7' length, and a piazza of j 7 feet, rhcieisapump
in the yard, an excelleut kitcten garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
[ stables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with I
flails in the two stables for 27 horses. The hcal
thinefs and pjeafantnefs ot its situation. and the
ny * number of genteel and agreeable families in and
j DS n»ar the town, reader it a desirable retreeat for a ■>
j gentleman from the city. The commodioufuefs of
in the house, its central position, and the largeness of
a 7r the stables, make rt every way suitable fora tavern.for
' bfc which it his always been conftderd as a capitJl _
CCt " ftaad. Inquire 011 the premises, of
_ ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. 2J. 29—diw 2 awtf S
No * '
City of Waftiingtoo.
(le, SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11, '
Fotr the Improvement of the Federal Lily.
A magnificent dwelling-house ao,ooo dollars,
that cafti 30,000, ire
sub- 1 ditto 15,000 & cast 25,000 40,000
and I ditto 15,000 & ca(h 15,000 3°>° oo
s M. 1 ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 20,000
iafe; I (Vnto 5,000 & ca(h 5,100 10,000
fuh- , jl tto j,ooo & cad) 5,000 10,000
1 9 t " , galh prize of ro.ooo
' eem " » do. 5,000 each,are • 10,000
t0 ' ie 10 do. 1,000 - - io,ooc
" of »o do. 5 00 * IO > 000
h T 00 do- 100 - - 10,000
200 do. .to - • 10.000
him! *' • ' ,o,oo °
f the 1,000 do. 20 - ",000
Ji". .5,000 do. 10 - '^opc
■1 the 16,739 Prizes.
.rt in 33»*6t Rlanks.
with
1111 aed 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Sollars, 400,008
■e, at- *
: pub- N. B. Tofavour thofewhs may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,<*>0 dollars will be
>'Tided the t.ssx drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
nee to but '■ • • v
nform And approvednotts, feco»ing payment m either
je the money or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
ats at bfc received fo> any number not less than 30 tick-
Horse, ets.
Monday This Lottery will afford an elegant fpecjmen ol
ifburg, the private buildings to be erected in the City of
itherto Walhington—Two beautiful defigps are already
(elected for the entire fronts on two of the public
public, ftjuares; from these drawing*it ispropofed toereA
: house two centre and f our corner buildings, as fooa aspof
t Sun- fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey tliem,
irfday, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
•ifburg the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
ed for Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
Mon- be mjide to defray thenecellkry expenses oi print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
;R. Dhe fund intended for the National Umverfity, to
be erefled within the ci'.y of Waftiington.
m the The real fecuritiesgiren for the payment of the
every Prizes, are held by the President and two Dired
: pro- ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued *t
u'fc of more than half the amount of the lattery,
ednef, SAAIIRL BLODGBT.
at Pa- ,§, Tickets may be had at the Bank ol CoWm
•cturns bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Fcter
ng the Oilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
liladel- Sind of Richard'W«)l(, Cooper s Ferry,
nwf
This Day Publiflied, The
Audto be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, »orser of M
Second and Qhefnut streets, pH!
' Price 3-Ms of a Dollar, tl
Observations on certain Documents Atfwn,
Containod i* No. V and VI of '/
" The History of the United States for «*»'<> «
\ , ~ dtd lilti
the year 1796, fuUrlv
In which the ch.ibos or speculation againtt
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secket ary of the Treasury, is I'ULL"V loibe th
REFUTED. mcn I
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF* vans's,
This publication presents a coucife statement m ilci, 1
cf the base means pra&ifed by the Jacobins of the Plains
United States to asperse the chr.ra&ers of thole ve llen,
persons who arc confidtredas hostile to their difor- pravide
ganizing schemes. It also contains the tor- tingm
refpondence between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs. l an tic,
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venab'e, on the sub- place to
je£t of the documents aforefaid, and a series 01 let- « J
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Ha- tified, .
milton, proving beyond the poflibihty ol 3 doubt, anijijh
that the connexion between him and Reynold?, from I,
was the result of a daring eonfpiraay on the part day. a,
of the latter and his associates to extort money; IVa dir.
0" A discount of one third from the retail price ,„d ai
will be made in favor ol wholesale purchasers, for cforefa
cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr Young. ancqu,
: " NO. isb: ; :zi
Di/lriS of Pennfyhania, to <wit : numbe
|3E IT REMEMEERF.fi, that on the mill, 1
(L.y.) tweaty f l:(t h day of July, in the twen- are •«
ty second year of the independence of the United are so.
States of America, John Fknno, of the said dil- they cc
trift.hath deposited in this office the title of aback, iuill 1.
the right he elaims as proprietor, in the and b,
words following, to wit:—
" Observations on certain documents contained 14 lb
« in No. V. and VI. of " The History of the Unit- pcrrr..
" ed States for the year in which the charge Jennet
" of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, late agree
" Secretary of the Treafmry, is fully refuted— A'
" Written by himfelf."
In conformity to the ail (if the Cotigrcfs of thi Ti
Uc ted States, entltuled, " An a<ft for the onurar
agement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts and books to thr authors amf propri- y
etors of such copies, during '.he times therein men- JL
, ,1 1 rnil:
Honed. y ,
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk if the DiJ>ri£t of Pennfyl*"-•
Jilly 27. _ ——— — N 4 —the I
An (legant House in Arch street. a fa(
TO be let and entered on immediately a large Nor
and elegant house at the Corner of Arch and A
Ninth Street. There arc two drawing rooms ever
' and one dining room—the largest is 31 feet by s>«S
" 26—and two are so connsfted by folding doors
1 as to make but one. Also, five bed rooms be
-1 fides sin the garret, well finifhed for iervanU.
' j There are stables and a coach house, with evry ! f
1 1 convenience for a family. Enquire at No. 29, and
in North Seventh street, or at No. 218, Aral j )et>
Street; 7
Aug. !?• aawjw. w bi
n William Blackburn,
I p a "
" LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE wil
F- No. 64 Couth Second-«reet. dllt
t- THICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, wtkh J
re i. commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR
:> SALE. The price of tickets will rife in pfcopur
t- tion as the driwing advances, particularly on ae- «f
l- 1 count of the fiv; firft drawn tickets, prizes of
10 ' four tlioufand dollars each, on the last day ot
is ' drawings
I Check Dooks kept for examination and regilter
1C ! ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Wafrington, No. fto
I 2, and Paterfnn Lott«Us. ""
Also, tickets forfaleln the Schuylkill bri<'i"- and
Perktomen Bridge laitericj, which -will begin
drawing in the co»rfe»f the summer.
Thebufinefs of a Broker in ill kinds of Stock,
:ly Bills, Notes, Lands, &c-icc. trgpfaiSejt vYlth the t
ms utmost a:tention. A
in June % ' uM f
Erfkine's View of the War.
the * ai
wo JUST PUBLISHED,
ith ' By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No. 40 South Second street,
the [Price 31 Cents]'
" d a A View of the Causes and Conftquen- h
sos ccs of the present War with France, fl
' of Bv the Honorable Thomas E*skine. |
£ ' 1
STATE -
if Sold b W.Young, BookfcUer, No. 5», South Sc ,
cond-llrect,
The Pennsylvania State 1 rials,
/""tONtaining the impeachment, trial.and acqwit-
V_J al of FraneisHopkinfun, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicholas, Comptroller Gen
eral In one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boasds, 3
dollars.
i/y W. Young has for sale, a general dlortmentot
liars Bock?. Also, Stationaiy, retail and by tiie pack
.' eee, well aSorted,and entitled to the drawback if
;foo« »E«2i——- -
),000 For Sale,
~on" That tiellhnotvn place, called Fandegriu's
), ° OO F F R * Y,
->° oo /AS Nelhaminy creek. 18 miles from Phila
-3,000 ladelphij, on the TJevr York post road,
°' o0 ° containing 74 acres and 94percbe«. Upon the
0,000 nremifes are a large two llory stone house oecu
°'ooo pied as a tvern, and a good one story ttoric kit
n,oo° chen, .1 Urge frame liable with a guod threshing
0,000 floor, and lbnu; out buildings—also a well ot
0,000 good water, and an excellent ice House. On
0,000 this place is a most elegant fttiution fora gentle
*,oo° man's feat, commanding a view of the Neiham
iny to its iundlion wiih the Delawaie, and thence
across to the Jersey shore. It #as the privilege
ot one half the tollreceived from the bridge.
" For terms apply to the SoWcriber,
>o.°°e MORDECAI LEWIS.
y,4 lA. inwtf.
cuan- - ■' ■
«»ii be COLUMBIA HOUSE
LAST Boarding School for young Ladies.
1 either yrRS. GROOMBKIDGE with m»ch pleaf
5. will JVI ureand refpea, returns lwr fincert ac
-5 tick- knov/ledgement for the liberal encouragemefit
(he has received during four years refidenee ir
men of Philadelphia ; and afTures her friends ami the
of p U },i;c, so far from intending to decline he/
ilready foe has made a fupenor arrangement for
P ubUc the more convenient accommodation of her
;oere<a fchclsrs. Every branch of ufeful and polite
as , po/ " educati.n is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Mhem, Q room i, r idge and masters excelling tn their
'j refpeilive profeflSons.
it will T Comer of Spruce and Eleventh Wu.
p«t"of The'fitu'ation is healthy ; and made
ity ,0 more agreeable by an extenlive garden and jot
of ground adjoining the house. .
Just Published,
ued\- And to be had of Messrs. Dobfon, CampbeU,R.ce,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfellcrs in tSe
r city price one dolla'r, twmty.ftvc cents,in boards,
:oUm- New Views of the Origin of the
Fe s ei Tribes and Nations of America.
: By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON,
stWf June 20.
The Philadelphia, Atfion, anil 7 t.clerlutt
r MAIL STAGE.
rHE froprictns beg leave to infirm the public, t'u* t \
they have eJlMificd a Stage between Philadelphia, (
Atfion, Batflo, Hampton, Speedwell, and Martha Fur
nace, IFeuUng Rimer flitting mill, and the tin'n of Tvet
— ertotiy in Newjcrfey, to go once a week, and an provi
ded tilth good borfes, a comfortable carriage, and a cai's
ful driver, for the conveyance of the mail ,p aft ngers, and
goods. ''The Stage ivill fart every Thursday, at 19
o'clock, A. M. from Mr. Daniel Coopers Ferry, and
1 lodge that night at Joel Bodine s, at Longacoming ; and
on on Friday, at 6 o'dock, P. M. arrive at Caleb E
vans's, inkeeper, in Tucherton, difant from the city 54
it miles % (from the Atlantic 6, and from the Raft Grouftng
e Plains 7 miles) inhere are good accommodations for tra
£ vellets, and where are commodious andfafe pcifage boats
"* provided to convey passenger sto Capt. W illium "*lVar
"" rington s house, 0/1 Tucker's Island, adjoinining the At-
S. !antic f "where arc good accommodations, and a convenient
)- place to bathe ; the sport/man who H'ijbes to regale hmfelf
t- with fowling andfjhitig, wajy place be highly g ra ~
///W, there being at aim oft every season of the year fowl
t, andfifbin abundance.—The Stage on its return, ft arts
is, from the aforefaid C. Evans's in Tucierton, every Tucf
rt Jay, at 6 o'clock, A. M. breikfafts at John Bodine' *,
iVading River Bridge, night at Longacoming,
C« gnd <7/ 1 o'clock, P. M. on IVe^nefday, ar.rive at the
ar aforefaid Cooper's Ferry. It is presumed that no route of
an equal diftanec will be less expensive, or furnijh the tra
veller with a greater variety of amusement, as lx will
not only have a p leaf ant fail to the atlant/c from Tucker
ton, but have the curioftty of feeing on the road thither a
number of cdpital furnaces and forges, and one flitting
he mill, in complete order, and at work ; gentlemen, top, who
:n- are owners, or faflors, of any of the aforefaid iron works,
ed are solicited to encourage and support this ft age (by wh >cl{
.if- they can be so well accommoda'edJ the continuance of which
sk, will much depend on their aid. The rates of pajjengers
:he and baggage are as follows : For a passenger from the
aforefaid Daniel Cooper's Ferry to Tucker ton, including
led 14 lb.of baggage, Two Dollars ; for way pajfengers
lit- per mile, Four Cents—lso lb. of baggage equal to apaf
•gc fencer, Poftagc of letters, newspapers, will be
ate agreeably to law.
[ — N. B. The mail crrffesfrom the Old Ferry.
THOMAS WARDLE & Co.
th<* Tucker ton, Sept. aB. Off. 5. —Irawtf
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
>ri- r '| I HIS Stage ftart6 from the GEORGE 1 avern»
cn- at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, ifl
Philadelphia, every Tuesday, ThurfJayj and Satur
day, at t> o'clock, ia the ir or nil) g ; arrives at Ho
ver the firft day, at Snowhili the second day, at
r Northampton Court House the third day, and 011
the morning of the fourth day the passengers find
• a fafe and comfortable packet to convey them to
rge Norfolk.
md A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
,ms every Tuesday, Thurfiay and Saturday, and the
by Stajjc starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
* Monday, Wcdnefday and Friday j'pytsup at Snow
b _ Hill the firft Bight, drover the ad night, and ar
nt4" rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day. _
Vry Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
2 V and Norfolk, it So miles less than on any stage route
' rcn between those places.
Too much cannot befaid in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
passenger, who, after having performed this route,
r GE will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
diftanee, so good a road in America. f
Anguft 11. dim, eotf.
f p °f. Window Glass,
0 a »- ®f Supeiior Qaality, »"<' cVctpcr than «ny oth«r in
ts of [heCity—
y at OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to 19 by 14,
ifter- By the (ingle Box or Quantity, may be had at the
, No. ftorc of the Subfcriberj, corner of .'lrch »nd Fro*t
(iieet, __ V
e and 'Jams C. Isf Samuel W . Fijhcr,
be £' n Phiy.rlelphia. June 9,
itoek, ~ 30 Dollars Reward.
ch the J-) AN away on Saturday last, two indented S«r-
IV vants.Gifferd Dally,a mulatto boy.about JT
years of age, a Aim light built active fellotv, can
read and write, dye feet seven vt eight i»ches high, f,
has a heavy counto«ance ; had on a fuftian coauc
and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine (hoes &«.
Allan Hellons, a black about 14 years nf
o, age, five feet seven or eight inches high,a thick set
cluaxl'y built fsllew, particularly about the brccch;
had 011 a sailor's blue jacket lined with fwacfllin,
dark ftlipcd vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
11/ e- [rJt coarse fl 10e8) &c- . ei ch of them l.ad fevcral
ince. fiirts and feyeral other cloathes with them. T liir
' ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or 15 dol
; ].irs for each, aii&reaional>le charges, o« delivering
y gicm at No. J4, North Third-street.
, The black fellow is about a year from Lewis
Town, in the County of Suffix, flats tff Dela
uth St- ware, aDd has taken thfi boy with him.
lulr 31. mtulrfiw
als, ~To be SOLD or RENTMD,
acqwit. . LARGE 3 Story Brick House, on the
-°Vt of J-\ Sm!th fidc 0 { filbert street, between
er Gen- gj | lth afld pjinth, lately occupied at the Sor
jato>>,3 ve y or General's Office.
. The Building is 36 feet front and 3 j feet de«p,
mcnt .° the lot 110 feet deep, with the privilege of a ni«e
ITt if wid<: extending the whole length of
_i th« lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
— to turn in. The House is not plastered, and
may be turned either ir.to one, or two dwelling
emri's Hoofes. It is suitable for a Urpe Manufactory, '
or would make a good Tavern. Jmmediaft
n Phila- pofieftior) will be_given.
lt rol( | > Apply to Wo. im, Chefnut-Strtet.
Ipon the Ang.ii. cnd j t -.„
feoecu- Muftcal Injlrument Majiufaftory-,
k > "n^' t " -Vo. 167, Arch-Street.
tirelhing -|-TARPER,harpfichord, grand, portable-grand,
well ot >boar( j i p i er Ü ble and ftjuafe piano ftr't
fe- , D maker from London, returns thanka to hit frieml»
1 gentle- an( } t hc public, for then libeial encouragement,
Nelham- and ho p es ,}, at by his alliduity and atwntion to cv
d thence ery branch of his bufmefs, to merit a continuance
privilege 0 f their favors. Piano fortes made 011 theneweft
ridge. ani l mo st approved plans, with pedals,
, swell, and Frencii harp flop, whieh he flattei a
■VIS. himfelf will ue found on trial by Tmprejudiccd;
tiwtf. judges, to be equal if not superior to any import-,
r; ed,"and twenty per cent cheaper. Any intlru.
ment purchased of him, if not approved of
twelve months, he will exchange.
"r , f ' N. B. All kinds of M*fical liiftramecta ma<k,
ch pleai- nned> and re p airei . vith the ;;rtateft accuracy,
K-ere ac- and 0:1 the moll rcaionable term?,
■agemeot rew jy only.
iueti«« in Second hand Piano Fortes taken in exchange.
; and the MayiS. &am.
'm.ritfor Fofty Dollars Reward.
1 of her T) AN away from the fulfcriber 011 the fee
id polite J.X. onddavof this inlt. July, a Mulatto Man,
by Mrs. named VVill Bowzer, about forty years of age,
; in their fiy« feet seven or eigkt inches high, rather
chunky made ; had on when hs went away, a
Streets, drab colored'cloth coat, flriped purple
i imfrf and jacket. It is probable he will change his
and made cloathes, as lie took a number wjth him. Tie
n and lot fai.t fellow formerly bcloivged to Mr. Charles
Blake of this place ; and it is expefled he baa
made towards Jones's Neck, in the Delaware
State.—Any person apprehending the feid fel
bell,Rice, (ow, and securing him so that 1 can get huri a
;rs in tSc gain, (hall receive the above reward if taken
inboards, 0 f t h e county, and Twenty Dollars if m
of the the county, and all r#*fonabl« charges if bro't
erica. , ESSE REED>
' M ,® t ' Queen Ann's C«»*tjr, Maryland.