of w and hiladelphia Daily Advertiser*
vy.n=p 1566.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
ti
Stated Sales J
For D'R r GOO DS. I
r Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. ss, £
Monjp ' Front-ftreet,
- Af'tefnoon —Footman & Co. No. 6j
C South Front-street.
x r Forraoo'i.—Johl Connrlly, O!-. 1 City
frWflW Ho. 73 f»uA Pront«Qre«t. "
) Afternoon—William Shanaon, No. .
C IS3 High-street.
\ A, ; e ;" 00 "r- I ' e ' er enfon ' No - ? 4 o
- I fobtli Ihifd-ftrcet.
rr.,,..rj,„ J Forenoon—Edward Fox.
■ J'-'-y —John Connelly.
„ .j /Forenoon—Wilhar# Shsunon.
n,.ay Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
For HAMBURGH,
r T"'HE Copper Bottomed Ship tl
' i FAVORITE, John ft
Thompson, Miller, now at
Bright'* wharf, and will be rea-
dy to take, in en Monday next, -
"* i " part of her cargo being engaged
and reidy to go on board. The (hip is so well /
known, that i»|s needless to describe Jier. She
is now iivcompleat order. For Freight or Pas
s ge, please to applv at Mr. Jeremiah Warder's
Compting No. 12, North Third street,
or to the Master on bord.
Aliguft 30.
For SALE,
On board the said Ship, Swedilh Iron, aOTorted
Hollow and Window Glass, Demyjohns, Wrap
•pinjr Paper for Sugar Refiners, Rugs of I & 2
Quality. Please to apply as above.
wf&m4*r
White Havanna Sagar.
14?) I hoxrs "> of Tery fuperlerquallty now difchary
-7 t hhds- 1 i:ig from tie (hip Hamburgh Packet, t
at_Walnut Strtst wharf—and for sale by
PJiilip Nick/in is' Co*
N. B.
THE SHIP
Hamburg Packet, c
.t Silas Svtain, Master, '
For Sale, or Charter. y
I Aug. 24. sots - |
COMMISSIONERS' SALES, ]
Commifii mers of the counties of Ly- t
X coming and Northumberland, liave. given 1
notice that they intend to proceed to the sale of t
lands, for the arrearage ps taxes, on the 7th of 1
September next. '
£s" The different printer* in this city will
render an essential ferviqe to a great number of
individuals by publishing this notice.
Aug. 18.
FOR SALE,
BRETAGNES in eases
German Checks in do.
Cambrick
Plattillas ,
Ozuabrijs
Gold and fitver Watches
Wlpdow Olafs 10 by 8
GlaA, Tumblersin cases
Linseed Oil in calks, ice. &c.
George Perinoch,
IO?,' Hirb-Shrtit.
Joly j. ' ' ; • . 3 3W
< NOTICE.
IF Thidy O'Hara, who years fine* kept
School at the Nine Bridges, Queen's County, Eas
tern Shore, Maryland, be living, he is hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. Ambrose
Marshal, near Warwick, Cecil County, Eastern
Shore, Maryland, from whom he wUI receive in- •
terefting information.
August 4. mw&f£w_
THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREENLEAF,
HEREBY give notice, that fliey have riifpofed
of the property aOigned to t'.tcrtfor the securing
the payment of the note=, acceptances, and en
dorferiients given by Edward Fox, lor the use
of the said James Greenleaf; and the holder* of
luch notes, acceptances, and endorsements, are
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will fettle
■with them for the amount of their refpeilive
claim*, hoth principal and interest, at
any time before the 20th day of Oilober next;
after which day, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of affign
tnent.
Application* to be made at south-east corner
of Dock and Second streets (the Dock-llreet
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
•lock'every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratl,
Tho. W. Frzncis,
John Miller, Jun.
John AJlley,
Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, August 18, 1797. , d
The Inhabitants of the Diftrid
of Southwark,
A RF, informed that a Coachee is provided, to be
jL x kept at the Constables' office, the north east
earner of Front and Almond streets. where the
friends of those sick pcrfons who deflreto be re
moved to the Gi:y Hospital, are requeued to make
application—Also, a Heart: will be kept in readi
»el» for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
N E.—The Toor, wh« wish to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may be fnrnifhed with orders
Vy applying as
Imported in the latest arrivals from
\mftcrdam and Hamburg, Jand forfale by
B. fc? J. Bohlen,
A lane afToctment of fine French Cambrics,
PiatilUs Ruflia indDytcb sailcloth
B-ittannia* Writing, poll, and print-
Rouanes it,g L pa ?f a •
Brown Holland Dutch calf fkm»
Checks and flripes Prime madder
Ticklenburgi Shell'd Barley >,
,'Oznahurgs Looking glasses
White (heetings Hollow glass ware
Diaper I S ,3 }S s
Brown rolls Coffee mills
Umbrellas Brass ketllea
Hair ribbons Scythes and (Va.w knives
Black a lid whitelaces Tovs alTatted in boxes
Heft Holland Gin in pipes
\ London aartwular Madeira A'ine
> r .1.. -. m&thtf
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER r 5 , 1707.
WANTED
' Bills on Amflerdatn, at a fight not exceeding six
ty days, and with approved Indorfers, U> the amount
jf two hundred tfroufarid guilders—for which cath q
will be paid at the rate of thirty eight cents a guil
der—Applications to be made to Gco«ge Smipfon, (
Esq. Caftiier of the Bank of the United States. t
Sept. 41. v dtf v
NOTICE ~~ f
i. ' the Prlri 1
of Soutlvivark, that * ry 5 w»ll 1 i< id .;, the
CommiHioner'a room, wn Ftiday evening the, 15th
inft. at 7 o'clock, to take into confidciation, acd a
dopt measures for the rrete&ion of the property of
our fellow-citizen* froA v daring robbei s.
~ n JON. PENROSE- S
Sept. 14.
Young Hyson Tea. *
40 chests of a superior quality—Alio, e
100 do. of Hyson, tl
Imported in the ffoodrop Sims, and for sale by
tie fubfcriberit, comer of Second and Pine
street.
G. Haight.
June 21. eotf
Imported in the Jhip Pigou, •
And for fait by John Morton, No. ii6»South c
Front-street, \
Hyson } , Vilg *
5)' flU,S ur >TEAS ' 1
Young Hylon C J a
Imperial J '■
April 20. eotf *
This Day Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and CKcfnut street*,
Price 3-8/A1 of <* T)ollur,
Observations on certain Documents
Contained i* No. V and VI of (
« The History of the United Stats? far y
the
111 which the CHARGE OF SPKCOL ATIO N a<T3illll '
' ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secret afty of the TatASUK, is FULLY 1
REFUTED.
ir rlr re n Br himself.
This publication presents a concise ftateraent
of the base means pra&ifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the charaders of those
p*i sons who areVronlidered as hostile to their difor
gapiKing fchrmes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs. r
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on the fob'
je6t of the documents aforefaid, and a series of let- (
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha- .
milton, proving beyond the possibility of a doubt, ,
that the conneflion between him and Reynolds, ,
was the result of a daring eonfpiracy on the part ,
of tlve latter aid hi« associates to extort money. ,
gy A difcouot of one third from the retail price j
wilTbe made in favor of wholefalc purchaferi, for
cash. Orders t® be adcfreiTed to Mr. Yo»no.
August aj.
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.*
TKU Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at thecorner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, evriy Tutfdtr}, TburfJay, and Satur
day, at .1 o'clock, io the n orning ; arrives at Po
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the find
a fafe and «omfortable packet to convey tl}*m to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton feiry,
every Tucfd ly, Thursday and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Mon.ay, Wcdncfday and Priday ;'putsup at Snow
Hill the firft night, at Dover the id night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles lefa than on any fuge.route
between those placea. ,
Too much canpot be fai 1 in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
paflenger, who, after having performed this route,
w ill fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
August I J. dim. eotf.
Philadelphia, 15th July, 1797-
NOTICE is hereby given, that separate pro
posals with sealed covers \ri|l be received
at my office until the eleventh Say of September
next, to furnilh by contrail the following ar
ticles for the use of the Army of the United
States in the year 1798.
First Contrail for
I 8 Sergeants coati
2 Musicians, do.
10 Sergeants veils Dragoaqs
-116 Privates coats
t 126 Privates vests
' 64 Sergeants eoats
31 Musicians, do.
96 Sergeants vests
19a Woolen overalls Artilleriftj
192 Linen overall* V &
936 Privates coats 1 Engineers
9.16 do. vests
1871 Woolen overalls
187 a Linen do. ,
l 144 Sergeants coats
' 7a Musicians, do.
2.16 Sergeants vests
e 431 Linen overalls
432 Woolen do. *V"" ■ Infantry*
, . 1893 Privates coats
1891 do. vests
e 3784 Woolen overalls
3784 Linen do.
lit Contrail, for 1288 Sergeants
11816 Privates ,do.
e 12600 Socks
■* 2d Crtntrafl, for 272 pair leather breeches
3d Contrail,, for 272 pair hoots
4600 pairfhoes, No. I
8000 pair do. No. 2
4tli Contrail, for 1032 Artilleriftsand Engi
neers hats
2108 Infantry do.
136 Dra*oou caps
t- The whole to be delivered at the city of Phila
delphia, viz.
One fourth on or before the 15th diy of Fe
bruary next.
One fmirth on or beferethe 15th day of A
pril next.
The remaining half on er before the 15th day
of June next.
The articles are to be agreeable to such pat
terns as (hall be direiled by the Secretary for the
;s Department of War.
Payments to be made as Toon as the article
Hiall bo delivered, and pafled infpeflion.
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
cttiithSep.
By John Fenn.o, N a Ix 9 Chef?iut Street.
City CommifftQVers Office, 1
' August 29, 1797.
IN purfni\ncß of an Or t^>ff acd
Common Councils, paflTeo. rhe zzdday ofiMay !aft.
Proposal? in venting wl'Jbe rsceivedhy the City
Comnjfißbners for one mon'h tVxa the jft of Sep- C
tember next, for letting iff lcafefi for one .$
vear to commence tHc 5. J' •tuy ! ; "" rv oc.xt, c
following public property r.,
Xl"* " h-a- 5a • : L.i V - I W#
Alio on SiA7j.fr d , "
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
and Walnut Streets, Draw 2ridgt», wit>i
the Scale and Fith HouTes, Spruce, Pioe and Cedar \
Streets. a:
The cellar under the City-Hall. ci
The Tavern at the middle ferj-y on Schuylkill, tl
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much ii
thereof as (hall he occupied by any buildings cre«st- a
ed for the use of the Collector of the Tolls, or be u
neceflary for the toll-gates. J
Ang. 3 3tawim.
Five Hundred Dollars Reward.
A ROB BERT!
fubfcriber's JvYering houl?, in Chefnut-
street, was broken open fume time finc« Fr;- t j
dayjaft, and plundered of property, the value of c
which cannot as yet be ascertained. The
gained admifiion Vy breaking epen a window {flut
ter in the.second story of the back part of the house,
and afterwards farced almost every lock therein.
The above reward will be paid for the reftorapon j
of i'uch prop€riy as they may have taken, or pro
portionably for any part thereof, and a
of the pericn er concerned to convidhoi*.
JONATHAN MEREDITH.
Sept 12. dtf.
L O S T,
the Paffyunk Road, betv/een the Bltie Ball
ano the cify, a Fowling Piece, a brass j
harrel and Ftlrcr I'glit ; on the plate of the bur*
the It UT* 11 Jamaica, nthe barrel },
near the lock *• London" and the Tower llamp. f
Whoever will return the aid piece to 7obn Bcnnard, t
at the fijjn of, the B'ue Ball on the Paflyunk Road, E
or the office of this Gazette, shall receive a reward 0
of Four French Crowns,
. w ept. 12. *3^
DUIY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
T'HAT agreeably te an a& of Congrefi ef the 1
Unitfd States of America, pafled »t Phila- C
delphia, the »Bth day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ties on Carriages, for the conveyance of persons, e
which shall be kept by or for any person, for his '
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of passengers, the several duties and ]
rates following, to wit :
For and upon every Coach, IJ dols.
upou every Chariot, 11 dols. '
upon every Post Chariot, 12 dols.
upon every Post Chaise, 11 dojs.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top, ]
9 dols.
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
npon other Carriages, having pannelwork
above, with blinds, glasses or fnrtains,
9 dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, having fra
med posts and topi with steel springs, 6
dols.
npon four wheeled Carriages, with wood-
iron fprinjfs or jacks, 3 dols.
upon Curricles with'tops, 3 dols.
j upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two.wheel topcarriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or
iron l"pring», 3 dols. ,
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 2 dol".
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed pofte and '.ops, ynd resting up
on wooden spars, 2 dols '
The ColleSors of thoßcvenue for the llrfl Sur
vey of the DiftricSl of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, uutil the 30th day of September n«-xt, lor j
the purpose of receiving the duties ou Carriages, at |
Germantown ; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Ef<]. ,
in the Countj of Montgomery; and at the house |
of James Chapman, Efq in the County of Bucks ;
of which allperfonspoffcfled of such Carriages are
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wind, and foreign dis
tilled fpiritnous liquors, that licences will be grant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the bufi
nefsof retailing of Wipes, in a Icfs quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the bufihcfs of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than 20 gallons, at
the -fame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally autborifed to grant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpe&or of the Rcvenire of the firft sur
vey of iHe Pennfylvania.
Office of Infpe<Sion at ")
Germatitow, 12th ?ept. »797' J
fM PORTED
111 the (hip America, James Kwinf, maftef, from
/ Hamburgh,
1 Brown Hollands
White Piatillas
Ticklenbnrgs
Coatfe Linens
Tapes
Looking GlatTcs ") cafc ,.
GJaXs Tumblers J
FOR SALE BY
George Pennock.
A H uft 14. "3» w
An elegant House in »Irch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and elegant house at the Corner of Arch at\d
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
f and one dining room—the largest is 31 feet by
2 6 —and two are so connetSled by folding doors
sto make but one. Also* five bed rooms, bc
des 5 in the garret, well finished for lervanu.
- There are stables and a coach house, with evry
convenience for a family. Enquire nt No. 29,
in North Seventh street, or at No. ziß, Arch
Street.
- Aug. T?.
PETER BORGER,
INFORMS his friends and the public in general
that he hr.s -removed from No. 119, corner of
Arch and Fourth, to No. TOS North Front, be
y tween Arch and Kaceltreets.
luly 1-. W4"
Slct laying lJuttts on Stamped Vtiium,
Parchment and Paper.
A FEW copies of the above aSt may he had at
the Office of the Gazette of ita Ueited States, No
119, Chefr.uf-ftreet. July 191
Iniurance Compan\ of the State •
of Pennfylvafiia. -
'"P'HE Olfics will bu kept until further 'notice at
I the School House in GermaiHov/u. The i
Company still retain • the room in Chefnut, above V
.Seventh street, where a person w ill att.nd Vo re- I
ccive and g're- anf'.vers !• applications, ev-ry day H
A-om |Q irr.tll 1 o'cicci. '; 8
Sept 13. d.<t:.nvt/ B
Bank of North America,
September BtA y p
Monday nrfct the Nyticcs for a!! Nates or
Bills payable it thisß*nk.which fajl due on that
a;id the - enfuirtg 6 days, will be fcrved on the *
crs : And the like Notices on every Monday, till
the further or<lers of the Direiloi 6—Perfom wjlli- C
itvg to deposit N©tes or Bills for Collection, which
are tp full due within th© week, mu.ft tf emfelves
to notice ro the Payers dt§
TO BE SOLD , A
And immediate pojfeffion given, ' '
A Convenient w\ell tiniihed Brick I enement,
with a cook house' and other out houfes,Ctu
atcd in a pleafait part of the borough of •Mming- Q
ton, in the State of Delaware—Thp let of ground
has forty feet front on We ft-ftreet, aii(J g'
through the ftjmre to Paftur -ftrret, on which i 3 u
erfoled a stable and honfe
ALLEN M'I.ANE, ft
Wilmington, Aug, ». u
Red Port Wine. ' r '
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt Rhodes, from
Oporto,
Red Port Wine in pipes,hhds. and quarter cases
6<* cwt. Cork, 'or sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
July 2*'• j 5
The Partnerlhip,
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN Conlpany,
i« <::Bu'.»ed nratodlecwfent. Al 1 perfotis
having any demands againft'thefaid House we ds
fired to render the fame to T. U. Freeman -, and
thufe indebted to the House are defirfed to make pay- J
ment to him —By whom bufioefs will in future be
carried on,at his Store, No. 39, South Front-ftrcek 1 -
Augtji 7. ' eod4w
NOTICE.
ALL those who have any claims against the t
estate of Johm Cole, Umbrella Maker, late a
deceased, will apply withio a month from the date
hereof, to Mrs. Cole, at the south east corner of t
Green and Second streets, for their arrangement. j
N. B. If all demands are not sent in before the (
expiration of the 1 aboveme'litinned time, they wiU #
not be allowed, as his property will be disposed of. (
Sept. 9. i *-I t ' j
ImportedirtthelhipMANCHESTEß, i
Benjamin Shewell, Master, (
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the fubferiber, j
No. ji Walnut Street. 1
Bonrdeaux Brandy ~1 "
Irish market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatroyd.
■WHO HAS FOR. SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks ,
Rota do. do-
Pimento in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
A PERSON OF INGENUITY, lately arrived
from Europe, wiß»es to find here a place in
the quality of a Director of a Glafs-houfc, Chryf
tal of all kinds, having particular means for the
conftrucflion of the kilns, pots, and pofTeffing
likewise the articles used in the Glais houses of
Ei gland and France, baviug werked a long while
In nuft of them. Every exertion will be made to
| render the manufaiSory deferviog of public appro
1' bation—He who wishes to speak to him, will find
him at No. 27J Front-ftieet. '
Augnft 14 *
j For sale or to be on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on tHe north-eift corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State
' House square. Thi« lot is fifty-one feet front
on Waiiui! street, and one hundred and thirteen
' r feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present tWo nnall two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
t . Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. iituate on
Water-ftree-t, between Mulberry and Saffafras
" streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then w-id' ning to the
- south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
ave the convenience of a.public alley adjoining
n on the north fide, and are a very desirable Ctna
tion for a merchant, flour fa«3or,or othert who
may have occasion for storage of goods, lhis
property will be fbld on very reasonable terms
forcafh. For further information apply to the
printer.
July U. tn&wtf
The Subscriber has for Sale,
A large ailortment of India Muslins,
conrfe and fine
India Calkoes 7.
Sooty Romalls
B'ue Cloths and Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
' d Blue red and 6illi Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irish Lincus and sheetings, well
aflortcd
A box ©f Diapers
rS Silk Umbrellas
Two boxes of fine Spice«, cotaining Nutmegs ;
S- Mace and Cloves
7 Black Pepper of firft quality
9' East India Ginger
h Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wine
__ Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimstone
Mordecji Lewis.
AugvJ! ii. ' awlm
Cedar Shingles.
~ i—p<HF. fubferiber has a quantity of J feet Cedar
5 J[ Shingles of a superior quality, for sale at 13
dollars psr thousand.
at WMliam Hallowtl\,
• No. 193 North Third-Jlreet.
July 17. " 0<,12t
THOMAS HERMANVLIUFFER.
North, Sifth flrwt/ comer of North alky, No. 34
HAS FOR ,BALE,
EXOi'1 .1 .t <Tred bcurdeaux Wioe incafxß!' »
boxes,
A'hite Graves Wine in casks
!'ir!denburgs
Rtilfia -lif-Cot'is
Ravens.rmik. •»
ESiji Linen
Hcffiar.s
Diaper avd Ta!)liC!otl)
FmjfTy'-ag-i
Coramon German Cloth
n affci (merit <>f black coloured Ribbons
Fine German
About twelve tons 1' uffia Jlesn Mtmp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in fmallboxe*, For family use
Window Glass />usc 10 —zavc
. THIS DAY PUBX.IJHED, *
And for file by THOMAS DOBSOiX, at the
Ston» House, No. 4t, south Second street.
EVENINGS at HOME;
C*., THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Geßihung ofa variety of Mifeellaneous Pieces for
the jnftru&ion and amuferr.ent of YOUNG PER
SONS—Six Volumes printed and bound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars. f
The variety and excellence ol these pieces are
such, that the bopk need« only to be known to b*
universally efleemed one of the. mo ft valuable pub
lications fh t can be pat into the lianas of young
perrfor.s.
44 Delightful taik to rear the tender taught,
To teach the yoyng id -a how £«> (hoot,
To pour tte frfefh ii»{tru<slioQ o'er the mind,
T* breathe th' enlivening ipirit, and to si.i
The generous purpofc in thtgloVving br^aft."
Thomson.
August 24. j mwf4w
" Tills D .1Y IS PUBLISHED, ~~
By THOMAS I)ORSON y at the Stone Houfa,
No. 41, south Second flreet,
Letters and Conversations,
Between fever il Tovng Ladies, on improving and in
teretling fubjeflis.
Translated from tbe Dutch of Afadeike de Camion
with alterations and improvements,
Printed, en fne paper, and neatly j>wnd t
Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales «f extraordinary diftrtfi, or of defpei.te or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the baunds of rial lift, the prefer, becauft
elegant and natural dignity and importunes of the Feenalt
charechr is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lence. ,
The publiftier was fomuch pleaftd with the pern
fal, that he was persuaded he should do a pleating;
service to the community by fending it in o circu
lation. August 14—m»4w
Tt Master 1 and Pilots bringing up Vcffels
from Foreign Ports to this City.
WHereas fundty infringements have lately been
made on the Jaws of tljis state for the pre*
venting pestilential *r infectious diseases, either
from ignorance or in»ttentio* thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publifn the following ex
tract 1 from the laws of aad April, 1794, 7 A
Bth fedions.
HEALTH-OFFICfi.
June 6th, 17J4.
Extratt of an aftfor feruring tbe city and pott
»f Philadelphia from the m tradnSion of pef i
h ntial and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And be it farther ena&ed, that svery
master or captain of any ship or v«iTel eoming from
fca (vessels aelually employed in the coasting trade
excepted) and bound to any port or place within
the jurifdiftion of Peonfylvania.fba l ] cause his fbip
or vessel to be brought to anchor, or otkerwife flay
ed in tbe flream of the river Delaware, opposite to
the Health-Office an Stata-Illand aforefaid, and
there to remain until he (hall have duly obtained a
c< rtificate or bill of heal h frera the Resident Phy
sician. And if, previeufly to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any master or captain (hall
futfer bis (hip or vessel to appri ach nearer than the
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
fhalHand, canfe or fuffer to be landed, or brought
on (hore, at afly place or port within this Com
monwealth, or at any other port or place, with the
intent of being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any person tr persons, or any goods, wares er mer
chandize, or, if after receiving such bill of health
o." certificate, he shall ncgk& or r.fufe to deliver
the fame to the Health-QlScer, such n-.after or cap
tain shall forfeit M.a pay, for each sndevery such
offence, thel'umof iive hundred dollars.
And the captain or master of «v«ry Cup or ves
sel shall fend a fafe and commodious bpat to bring
the physician on bop- and shall in like manner
convy him baektp <Ol faakh-Ollice, after he has
concluded his official examination ; And while ho
' is making filth examination, or in rase any fubfc
» que:.t examinatioifby the Heahji Officer or Con
; fu'ting Physician; agreeably to the d reifions of
thin aA, the master or captain fliall espofe or cauie
) to be exposed to thefearch of the Relident Phyfi
-5 cian.or of the Health Officer and Consulting Phyfi
-5 clan (as the cafe may be) each and every part of the
: ship or vessel, and shall present to hi» view eack
and every person or persons on board thereof, and
and shall also true and fatisfadory anl'wers piahe
' to all such questions as the Resident Physician, &c.
at the time of examination shall aflc iclativie to the
health of any pott or place frem which the ihip of
> vessel failed, or has fir.ee touched at —the number
of persons on board when the ship or vessel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that have
fince been landed or taken 011 board, aDd when,
and whererefpe&ively—what persons on board—■.
f they hate been during the voyage, or shall,
the time of examination, be infected with any pet
" tilential or contagious diftafe—and what is the pro
fent state and condition of the p*rfcns on board
with rupee? to their health or diseases. And
any master or captain shall refufe to expose as afore-
! > aid, to the search of any of the officers aforefaid,
n- if he fhalltfOH«a/ anyftck ftrjoa t or in any other man"
jer deceive tbe proper officers aforefaid in bis Jifctrt
uch captain or master, for every such offence, shall
forfeit and pay the fuel of riVE hundreb dol
lars.
Sect. 8. And if aF,y person or persons what
ever (the Resident Physician, iScc. excepted) shall
goon board any vessel, before the master thereof
has received a certificate of health ,in the manner
_ J direifed, every person so offending, shall pay th«
urn of ONE HONDRED DOltAttS.
IT being tibfolutely neceflary tkat the foregoing
ir feigioni should be punctually complied with, tha
13 fubferiber, in compliance wiik his duty, mufl ex
aCl a rigorons of the fame, or else be
under tha neeeffity of putting thu laws in force.
\V m. AIXKN, Health Ofjhtr of the
\ ' Put W/' btfad'rijibia. '
JuVJ- 14-
[VcLUMn XHXfte
PHILADELPHIA, v
fRIDAY EVENING, September if.
ilxtraft of a letter fVom Captain Thomas
FriJx'tuN, to the Secretary of War,
dated Baltimore, September 7, 1797.
" I have much pleasure by the opportuni
ty this day's mail affords, in letting you
know that the frigate Constellation was fafe
ly launched at 2 o'clock, A. M.
Ihe masterly manner in which the ways
were laid by Mr. Stodder, and the other
precautions he took to prevent the smallest
accident, which had the desired effect, does
nim the highest honor as a matter builder
and profeffional man, in faft, Sir, I never
witnefled in Europe, or any other country
a performance of the kind better executed
and more highly gratifying, and I am con
vinced a more sightly ship of the fort cannot
be built."
Copy of a letter From David Stodder,
Constructor-os the frigate Constellation, 1
to the Secretary of War, dated Navy
\ard, Baltimore, September 7, 1797.
Sir,
I hav? the pleasure to inform you that a
bout five minutes before nine o'clock this I
rtiorning, I launched the United States sri- j
gate Constellation, without the leaftl appear- J
a.nce of the smallest accident happening, not- 1
withstanding we had no more than a common
tide, {he launched into her element Jeaving
her ways in as good order as before her
weight came on them.
I am under the greatest obligation to the j
Carpenters that assisted for their readiness in 1
obeying my orders as well as their aftivity ]
in executing them at the instant direfted."
With the greatest refpeft,
• I remain Sir,
Your obedient Servant, ""
DAVID STODDER.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE, i
FROM LATE LONDON PAPERS. *
1 (
FRENCH LEGISLATURE. 1
, COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED. '■
24 MefKidor, 12 July. |
Dtfplantier.—Does it correspond with
the constitution ? Does it correspond with |
the happiness of the people ? Does it cor
. respond with the peace of the. interior, to
favour the excesses which the indefatigable
apostles of anarchy wish to renew ? They
fay that the 353 d article of the confti'uti
on is in their favour, but this article con
cerns only the friends of order, and not t
those mho have dug sepulchres for the
French nation, and whose doftrine is de-
ftruftive of all social order.
Arsenals of revolt, warehouses of (nfur
reftion ate established; a set of banditti
Wish again to sway upon' the fcanold the
sceptre of terror.
But their pratricide projects are known : { |
the anguish of having conceived them is all
that is left them : liberty is so confirmed,
that one gesture on her part will rally round
her all good citizens, and manifeft the dif-
grace, the infignificance, and the infamy j
of her hypocritical vctaries. '
It is for the wifdotn of legislators to pre
vent the combat from taking place. To {
prevent the evil is now to do a great deal.
Recolleft the origin and the history of po
pular fqcieties. Doubtless we owe grati-
tude to these foeieties for the good that
they have done, but by adding to this, sen
timent a positive resolution not to expose
ourselves to them again, a blind resistance to
salutary reforms called forth the resistance
of the paflions.—There was not one French-
man, an enemy to abuses, who did not wish
to co-optrate in their annihilation. This
enthusiasm peopled the popular foeieties,
but we soon saw them degenerate. Men
fond of money and of power direfted the
operatious of these civic aiTerablies, and Qr
every step in their career was a monument
of their violence. \ '
The 9th Thermidor arrived; France,
disengaged from the yoke of the Jacobins, QU
got time at last to breathe, and their crimes co]
were brought r» a period. But now they | a p
ft ill pretend to influence your deliberations, u j,
to aflbciate themselves . your labours, and
to direst your steps. Vou applauded with
energy the directory when it'eaufed the
pantheon to be' shut: you will sot fiifFer J, u(
those miscreants to reorganize their cursed ]
band,'and to render you incapable once t j, e
more of realizing the hope of your consti
tuents, and of drying up the source of j an(
your cslamities. cj
• We have certain information that popu. f u ] {
lar foeieties are established in a great num- on ],
ber of the departments, and that they me- er
nace the public tranquillity. You know t0 j
that there are already a great number of j
this fort in Paris, who exeite the anxiety tee
and the vigilance of the couftituted autho- tent
rities. You have just grounds for alarm, t j cr
since all these foeieties are compofea of f tcn
ultra-revolutionists, who have retarded in f e( j
place of accelerating the. progress of the • '
revolutionary chariot ; of evil geniufles who c( j v
wifli at any price to aft a part upon the prcv
political scene ;of ambitious men who are £
astonished at not having been the-people's 0 f t j
choice; of men, who, decorating them- v ,r lo
selves with the fine names of the Roman t j ian
republic, have plundered and mafiacred at was
all hands, and who never bluflied but in eil( j c
the blood of their fellow citizens. corr(
What can be the operation of aflemblies nc , ]n
eompofed of such fulphureous l nam{
if it is not confufion and terror ? Dread the g,
eruptions of these new revolutionary vol- jj"
canoes ! Have they not dared to fay that [ la jj '
the representatives of the people were tr; "ky
Chouans and Rovalifts, and that they wish- j-, n£r
ed for the re-establishment of tithes and
feudal rights, because they wished t,o re- j)
store liberty of worship, because they did t0 t jj
- Hoi wilt to perfccute the fmmftera 0i reli
gion, and because they were occupied with
the fnbjeft of bells ? Have they not dared
to fay that they supported a fojreigri faftion
beeaufe they repealed revolutionary laws,
and recalled to Franc « those whom terror
- had fugitated from her territory I Have
mas they not dared to fay that they were coun-
War, ter-revolutionifts, because they manifefted'
'7- _ a determiaation to prosecute rogues; and to
tuni- put an end to their dilapidations ?
you Yes ;do not doubt it ; plots are formed
fare- against you ; the furies already talk of the
cannon of Vendemiaire ; of battalions, of
ways pretended patriots whom they are organiz
' t ' le 3rmS arc reat ty, t ' ie signals are
a left j agreed upon, they only want the signal for
does | battle. , Yes, they wish for"an infurreftion ;
uder I nocturnal aiTemblics are increasing, and Pa
lever 1 ris is overflowing with the Jacobins who
ntry , have inundated France with blood and tears,
uted I have met here two who have been the
con- 1 robbers of my department, and jtliere is
nnot perhaps none of you who cannot fay as
I much.
J All temporizing will be fatal, and bring
1* R, 1 on a catastrophe in which not only you, who
ion, possess the esteem and confidence of your
favy j eonftituents, and who would find defenders
J. and avengers in everyone who is friendly to
j good order and the government, but all those
it a- who shall take a part in the business will be
this involved.
fri- j Do you know what the Jacobins -are ca- 1
ear- | pable of > Hear what Rewbell told you in 1
not- Brumaire, 3 d year, <• Where has tyranny
non had its supporters and its satellites ? In the (
Jacobins. Who has covered France with 11
her mourning, and peopled the baftiles ? The <
I Jacobins. If you do not pronounce with I s
the j courage you will no longer have a republic]
s in 1 yoH will have no more liberty because you
nty I will have Jacobins And, I add, because
d." you will have popular foeieties, and pretend- f
ed constitutional circles.
They havs circulated a rep®rt in the de- t
partments that some of the representatives 11
of she people have been afTaflinated, because I
they v\rifh to famih'arize the public mind 11
: with the idea that it may not be fhoefced I h
"*• the reality. Put an end to them by \
destroying these foeieties, which, like can- I r
cerous ulcers, are corroding the tree oT li- I p
bertv. I
We do net pretend to dispute with citi- I ri
zens the right of afTociating in private |c
meetings but we wish that they may not I v
he>fo numerous as to eaufe uneasiness; we I a
!th there may be a law of police, I rr
jr- Hmltin S "umber and determining th« Ini
mode ofadmiflion. I f a
jl e reporter then presented a plan of re- I E
ey f^' ut ' on ) of which the following are the prin- I w
J cipal provisions : Ij,
n _ 1 • All private foeieties discussing politi- Ila
cal qucfiions, and all those who under pre- I fc
he text of religious worship meet for the fame Ibi
e- pur F° fr ' be eompofed of citizens do- Itr
micilated in the commune. 1 1»
r . 2 * The members of these foeieties (hall Ith
J not exceed the number of ten in the com- I
ae mu nes whose papulation shall amount to jat
five thousand fouls ; of twenty where there I T
are twenty thousand fouls ; of thirty where I E
ill ar ® ' an hundred thousand fouls ; and I
j of forty in the communes of Paris, Lyons, Ith
Bordeaux and Marseilles. J da
f. 3* Citiiens domieilated for one year shall I tit
be omitted till the complement fixed is made I
' in order of priority of enrollment.
4- These foeieties shall not meet oftener I
'o than twice a month, and their fittings shall Icv
j terminate at funfetting. 1
j?"' Thf y watched by officers of I tin
j_ police,and shall not be allowed to correspond, J vit
[t to affiliate, to hold public fittings, to hate I foe
u presidents or feeretaries, to adopt delibera- tht
■ e tlYe forms, or take any title but that of a I '
o private society discussing political queftioni. difi
e 1° cafe of troubles or movements, the I rea
adminftrationt shall be anthorifed to suspend j bly
h " their fittings, and to order them to be shut los 1
up till the re-establishment of order, and at I ren
the most for one month. I J_ cl
n ' 7- Every society which shall aflume ano- led
. r "er title, is declared contrary to public or- I the
j der ; it shall be diflblved by verbal orders, I tiot
or if neceflary by armed force. I und
8. Those who refill shall be prosecuted as I rem
guilty of rebellion. I of t
» Coupe (of the North) moved the previ- Iby
| ousiqueftion, and the appointment of another I cen
' commission to makq a new report. This Ito d
last, he said, gave rife to an idea that pop- 1 whe
| ular locictiea are if ill neceflary. I thei
Vaublanc. I move that the report and j that
the projeft be printed. There are some I the
. provisions in it which appear to be too mi- I pers
nute ; but there are others which are excel- I
lei>t, and which must be adopted. It is of I
the greatest importance to announce to the |
; people, that we are not reduced to the me- I
lancholy neeeffity of organizing popular so- I G
cieties, to prevent the abuses which may re- I retn:
fult from them. The constitution permits I lowi
only private focieries, because they are nev- I mad
er dangerous, but every other society ought I the (
to be diflblved bv the magistrates. I "
A member—The projeft.of the commit- ity i
tee is completely ridiculous ; it is incompe- refpt
tent with the dignity of the council to or- publ
der it to be printed. It has occasioned a I recoj
scene which wg ought never to have witrtef- I even
led. [We forgot to mention that the read- the ]
iug of the projeft was frequently interrupt- been
ed with bursts of laughter.] I move the they
previous que'ftion. q or t
Dumolard—l fliall not discuss the merit to ar
of the projeft ; there are several of its pro- vifto
visions which leem to belong rather to'police Lom
than legislation ; but to prejudge that it have
was wrong, and it was extremely wrong to Coul
endeavour to cover it with ridicule. The the *
[ correspondence of all the representatives an- your
j nounce that popular focietfes under feigned j of G
names are every where forming ... I <«
Several voices—Clichy ! Clichy 1 v amon
who was at the extremity of the now
hall, left his place and went towards the defcri
tr;bune, making gestures aDd apoftrophi- called
ling the speaker. Several other members | fir ft i
made a chorus along with him. [ you v
Dumolard continued—l shall listen only Euro]
to the calls *>f uay coafcfence and my duty, I you,
rcli- itiilifTtrent to the.menaces of which J may
with be the objeft. Your intention is, to secure
tared to all the abfulufe empire of the constitution.
ftion You will not deprive the citizens of the right
aws, of assembling when the constitution permits
irror them to enjoy it; but- you will and you
lave ought to forbid every aflfembly which is. con
oun-_ trary to public order. The period of a Re
:fted volution is one thing; and a constitutional
dto regimen is another. The popular societies
have beeh uftful in overturning the ancient
med regime ; but now that the new regime is efta
the blifhed, they will destroy liberty" itfelf, and
, of the republic by pretending to defend tlTsm.
mz- These truthsrefl upon incontrovertible fads,
are The government has its eyes, upon the ma
for nceuvres of flock-jobbers, and their schemes
on ; are no longet myflerious ; but they will turp
Pa- out to their confufion, without impofingup
wbo On anyone.
of the resolution, which they
the have prcfenfed to you, certainly is not per
e is feft, but no person can pretend to the so
' as weign science ;we may criticise it, but we
cannot dispute the intentions of the eommif- i
ring fion, far less its urgency,
who I repeat it, the government has its eyes
'our upon the miserable gangs of robbers who
Jers would wifli to plunge us anew into terrbr;
f to a (lift it in making them return to their cj
lofe verns, and do not think because they affeft
Ibe to difleminate the idea that the beautiful
epoch of the firft years of the revolution,
ca- that the 14th of July will be sullied by afTaf
i in linafions. I vote that the projedt be printed,
nny Bailleul succeeded Dumolard, and spoke
the on the other fid*, and after a violent debate
mh the council closed the difcuflion, and order-
Hie ed the report and the projeft to be printed,
ritlj and the difcufiion to be adjourned.
ic;
rou PARIS, July 1 3 . '
use A letter from the Hague, dated July 4,
fid- lays :
" The utmost exertions are made here
de- to accelerate the embarkation of the land
ves troops destined for the l'nteuded expedition,
use Bcfidcs the twenty battalions of foot, men
!nd tioner* in my last letter, twelve squadrons of
tetf h«,f e are to be embarked. Major generals,
by Van Ruylen and Potkop, and gineral Gue
»n- rike, a German, who has already been em
w «f d in feTeral maritime expeditions in the
tteft-Indies, are gone to the Texel to di
iti- I reft the embarkation of their brigades. The '
ne commander in chief of our garrison, and fe
lot I veral other officers and volunteers, are like
*e wife to serve on board the fleet, and three 1
:e, members of the committee of union," are to 1
ht attend admiral de Winter,who has orders to 1
I fail the firft fair wind, and to attaek admiral j
re- I Duncan wherever he comes up with him. But t
n- I we are aflured, tliat tlie expedition is neither t
ieftined against England, Scotland, or Ire- I
ti- J .and, and it is certain that not one French 1
■e- soldier is to be employed in the expedition,
ne I uut that the whole land force consists of ■ C
0- j troops of the Batavian republic, tobo are at t
brefent left retrained by politital considerations
*ll I than the French troops. si
n- I " Three of our armed brigs wet* lately
to 1 ntta«ked by an English frigate of 36 guns. g
re I I hey beat her off, and afterwards toqk an r
re I English merchantman.
id I " The firft new herring, which formerly "
s, I the ftadthclder used to receive, was yefter- -
I day presented to the president of the conven
>ll I tion."
k I V ■ fuly 27 • u
r I The members of the club of Montmoren- g,
II I cy, frighted at the progress of this inftitu
| tton, and at its effe&s, decreed at its last fit
lf I "ng depute ten of their members to in r so
1, J vite the members of Clichy to dissolve their
e I society, and to offer upon their parts to do
1- I the fame.
8 J ht . f >' ftcn ? stic alarmists are falling into th
. I discredit; weak men who had conceived in
e j leal anxiety blush at theirmiftake; and proba- 15
i I bly the emphatic proclaimed of the dangers Fi
t Jof the country are about to be compelled to of
t renounce the glory of having again saved it. be
I Let uk examine for a moment these pretend- I hi]
■ led alarms. Some troops are detached to fei
I the eastern coast, where maritime expedi- 17
, tions, or the troubles excited by fanaticifm, G1
J under the (hade of powerful prote&ios, may Ai
> I render their prefeuce necessary. The order 16
los the destination is prescribed in legal forms of
■j by the executive directory, transmitted, ac- nal
• | cerding to custom, by the minister of war, Ta
1 Ito disposers of the military divisions, through At
J whose hands they must pass, and after tl&t in
I their march is so little a fubjeft of mystery his
I that fiteen days ago it was announced in all for
I the Belgic, and afterwards in the Paris pa- the
P" 8 - Fr«
_ , ba\
From the Parii Papejs. Ly
MONTEBELLO, June 28. of"
General Buonaparte arrived here on his Mo
I return from his journey to Como. The sol- fhei
lowing is the remarkable speech which he tifh
made in that city to the National Guard of det<
the department of Lario : t h e ,
I. you the public repose and tranquil- a S
ity is entrusted. You must make the laws last
refpe&ed, defend property, and maintain the for
public fecjirity. The Cisalpine Republic is
I recognized by tSe powers of Europe, and
even by the Emperor. It is a lhame that 1
the Italians for so many years should have fame
been dependent on foreigners ; in future offict
they shall be fubjeft neither to the Germans, day,
i)or to the Spnniards, noi the French, nor ted I
to any other power. We have not abused no pi
viftory ; we have fought and conquered ther
Lombardy to maka it free, False reports guill
have been in ciriolationrefpeAing your fate, qnt 1
| Could you think that I was going under
the walls of Vienna barely to fell you to L
your ancient oprreffors ? No : In the heart of h,
of Germany I thought of you. J ent
" There mnft no longer be any Swiss chart
among you, or exclusive patriots, finoe new/
now all the citizens must be of this ous a,
description. Those who were formerly ncrt
called Nsbles, and also the rich, must be the God.
firft io giving the example. Unfortunate
you will be if fa&ions reign among you 1 w her
Europe, which keeps her eyes fixed upon Join
you, will bt precipitated into ar. ahyfe of CO mm,
may calamities. Let noparty deceive you : the
eeure notile must consider himfelf as on a footing
ition. with others. The First Chamberlain, the
right person formerly most attached to the Arch
rmits duke, is now on a footing with the lowest
you peafaut. No person will be so wicked as to
con- recolleit that he was noble and not to love li
-1 Rc- berty. In fifteen or twenty days your con 1 -
lonal ftitution ifrill be published, as >vell as the
leties new order «f things. Let moderation be
cient your direftor ; let religion be refpe&ed ; e
efta- very nation has its own ; but religion must
, and not be intermixed with the affairs of Gov
. ™. ernment ; it would be ridiculous for it to u
adts, furp this right since its objtft is only the af
ma- fairs of Heaven and not of earth,
emes " You have' the Swiss republicans for
turp yoilr neighbours,, though they are divided
> U P" y forms of Government as much as by their
mountains. Your Republic, which is fitu
t ley ated in the plain, must he one : it will com
per- pnfe four millions of inhabitants. Mode- I
" so " na ' Re ffg io » Ferrara, Bologna, Romagna,
t we ! and perhaps Brescia, w.ll be united to you.
mil- With courage, with#- refped for the laws,
your republic will retain itfelf, and makt
eyes a figure powers of Europe,
who " When your government is completely
rbr; organized, and consolidated, the French
ca- will be the firft to withdraw, with the ex- I
flea ception of a number of troops, which will
tiful be neceflary for your defence, and you will I
ion, govern yourselves." j
ffaf-
ted. LONDON, July n.
'oke The ,'? t /v \ CCO , Unts frnm Marvin mention, that
bate g,nei ? lls ® r< fered the municipality [0 pre- I
der- T u, C j" P of themo '> rfi-!>in K uin-.e'd e- I
f(J ,i f C i a ' f .° pu s a 'co.ooo franks at the disposal 0! I
ted, the admmiflrative comroiflion. A number of tri I
umphal arthes were.of courO, ready; and
in addition to horse races and fi re work , an en . f
campment wi, preparing for' if,ooo troops, for I
1r 4. r 1 p f. rformanCe ,' f n,il " ar y evolutions. This
f4. fpleadid fte «. alf, ro he »ccomp,„,i c d hv the e
rrition of a coloCarmo. umenr, feet in height,
lere nrhe ne.de los it. George, in , ommenioration of
and attle of Monlenot'e.
ion. t0 think tf,at ,he high (late
ien- rS °"7 P t0 he has raised the India
,r|. I p3 u ,y l Tr em wanton asd unmanagc- I
> of able , he has therefore determined to apply a few
S Zt",, ICC T V he ru,es of 'V l '™*
" le " blood, and fo'ren:«ve /«-
rt sh ' k "'""'" ' ri ' *I,
fe- e fll0 " ld d! «. man on the who!-' '
kc " fucceCinfh 01 " Woull L mak - 3 hnt * Cardinal 1
reefer hi f!' P 3 P a 7;'tl>an the.hilhop of Rochef- ,
f'' ™ bfing tl: fjnoe v ith
to he church of Rome. The hierafrhy a „d infallibi- !
• t( J & rh„ at ,| C ' Ch fu " y r Srovc ' f in h ' i fpeeeh a
iral F. • C! ' tcr5 ' ar "J as the Pope precludes the j 1
iut I r ° f the '•''red writings, so ,
her r 1 ■-- i'' r ' a * r fan >°«s speech, preclude-, I (
lan/
re- land which arc m vie oAy for their obedience, not C
ich - <nwr connderation. j c
an, , ' bc ' 'r-raph between London and Portsmouth, 1 c
of xIV:, CO r T Ua J ,yi a " d whi*i« this to the I 1
at tcranh °r rV'f " v/hich - like the tele- r
at graph, are nfefulcßiy \afunjhine.
°" S si J In,, ; a fleet i a remarkabl- j
f ~ and we know » better sub- f
:ly " n < , nT '' r ' """'> wh,ch '» now To extrava 1
an rn%l,' D r'V h:nks -,' hat if the F -ench are fright- f
1- •.7 '! ate of financial refourcesexhi- I >
1 we'lhain. m 3n<l h " ir ° tl " r o{ ths £ xchequer, I 0
"1 y we «>aJl have » peacc thg-cbtip. v
* T " ' I 11
n- BOSTON, Septamber g. J
Navy-Yard—Bofion. I
The conttruflor, has the hofior to infdrm his I
fellow-citizens, that the frigate CONSTITUTION I t;
is to be lauched into her cleftincd el -men:, on Wed- ' 7
Helday the acth intt. at n o'clock.
u " GKORGK CLAGHORN P
l " . The . "grated Cheva!i-r Cefar Dubuc, who p
f r ° me "meCnce resided in'this vicinity, ism Fan. £
1 r I ui
'° September 8. I
Arrixed at Beverly, on Wednesday last, vv
:o the brig Pilgrim, capt. Nehemiah Andrews, tc
d in 139 days from Isle of France. In lat. I ®
a- xj, 14, N. l v ng. 23, 39, W. spoke a
rl F / cruiling ihip of 22 guns, the capt. P L '
o of which compelled capt. Andrews to his
t. boat in the night time,and come on board I
I- him, who, after examining his papers, fuf-1
0 fere 4 him to proceed. Aug. 25, lat. 38, I a
1- 17, long. 61, W. spoke (hip Four Friends,
1, Glenn, out 5 days from Philad. bound to
y Amsterdam, all well. Sept. 1, lat. 41, M' d
r 16, long. 68, spoke with the British ships
8 of war Assistance, of 50 guns, capt. Mo- trc
- nat, and Andromeda, of 32 guns, capt. ro '
' Taylor. Capt. Mouat politely offered capt. I mc
1 Andrews any fupplies'or assistance that was I ac<
t in his power. to give him,' and even urged 3 c
7 his poultry he had dressed tre
1 for hn own table. He informed capt. A. an
- the danger he was in, if he should meet a j
French privateer that was-criiifing in the] , K
bay, and said that he had dispatched the
Lynx, of 16 guns, capt. Hail, and the 1
Spencer, of 16 guns, capt. Evans, in quest nct
of her. On parting with those (hips, capt. tra '
Mouat gave capt. A. a certificate to be tra '
shewn to any commander of any other Bri- 1110
tifh ships he might meet with, to prev«nt
detention. Those ships had in co. with thl!
them a brig under American colours, with mo '
a Spanish capt. from the Havannah, but re " (
last from Philad. which they had ordered "f n
for Halifax. !°ev
to f
BALTIMORE, Sept. 11.
The trial of Noucbet, <wbo ivas imprisoned "
some time ago for counterfeiting arched on the Mill
office of discount and deposit, came on laji Fri- who
day, when the charge was so fully fulflantia- at J
ted ly the vjitneffes on lehalf if the slate, that on !
no pleadings took place, <zve underfland, on ei- dert]
ther fide. Thi jury brought in a verdiEl of the
guilty, and the court fentented the culprit to frien
Qnt year's imprtfonment, and a fine of jQ.200. plati
n n « P° or
Uted, yefieraay morning, in the 5 if} year " Y,
of his age, Mr. George Roberts, an old reft- ed w
dent and refpeSable merchant of this city. His with
charaSer is too universally hnouon to need a- the (
newspaper panegyric—lt was that of a -virtu- half
ous and amiahle man, and to addgreater h»- now
nors than man can give him, he died fearing Mills
yjfOUm
cries
On Thursday evening last, at Gray's choa
zvhere he retired fir the retovery of his dealt h> he-r-l
John Dyken, Esq. his Britannic majefly's Carlt
commissary for, Cape Nubbla-Molc.
vtie Calcutta GAZ'ttk,
L^ Mr. Editor,
as to ' If J ou deem the accompanying account
/eli- of tbe celebrated country of Cafhmeer,
con- wo r th y a place in your paper, you will
i the ™ ,nfcrt '. n ? —lt is taken from
1 be Mulfoozaats Timoori, or a history of
;e- ™ e -Great T.mur, said to be written by
nuft h ' mlelf ' a scarce and valuable work, and in
jov- m y "J lnd . carries along with it strong in
-0 ternal evidence of its authenticity,
e as- Tr 1 a ™' Sir,
i our mou obedient servant,
for p ■ - viator,
[ded CaMn P ore > l/? May, 1795. '
situ- AccoUnt °f Cashmf «, from th, Mulfoo
om. ZA "r Timoori.
frl] T thI T s the neighbourhood of '
r ou. J ebhaui ',' 1 (tne Ameer) enquired concern
iws, !"? situation of Cafhmeer, when I was
akt ,nformed Jt was a country of wonderful
beauty and excellence; that the air was
tely P ," re a ' ,d tbe wat fi* wholesome, and that it J
nch Ur .' ded '» a **#*7 of delicious fruits } «
ex- . 18 situ ated m the fourth climatl ;
will , txt ended a confidtrable way in
will if"? ' and was furr oundtd on all fides by
high mountains ; they described its length
to be from east to weft forty furlongs ; its
breadth from north to south twenty-five
that furlongs; that the country within the
ore- mountains, and the dominions of Cafhmeer
! contained I)0 oo populous villages : it it
tri b ° Ut,ded thc fo «th by the mountains ly
and >"g nearest so Indoftan—on the weft by
f- Afyhaiineftaun—on the east by the king
for dom of Tibut (Thibet) —and on the north
, h '' oy the countries of Baduhfhaun and Kho- ' ■
; ht, "L , ; that although it at present contain
-lof ed on, y °" e thousand villages, the country
was capable of containing an hundred thou
tate Tand, and that the foil was of such i-nature
t a am P'y to repay the labour of cultivation ;
£ w they further informed me that the inhabi
tin tants of Cafhmeer, both men and women, J
were famous for the beauty of their perfonj 4
and the,f ready wit: they said mereover 1
'Z l u at t ? le cl 7 a ' e was "Ceffively cold during J
s a the winter season and that ice and snow 4
abounded ; that for this reason many fruits,
01, the produce of warmer climates, such as '
nal limes, oranges and dates, would not flourifh
ith C : „ th /l T th f ca P'' tal of the kingdom" ,
b . was called Nughur (by Sheruf Addeen of H
, a . Yezd Tughur Nugghur) where the prince 1
the resided ; that in this city there wgs a fa
ro mons palace built entirely of wood, of four
t Z Te u ft ° n ' Cß h, 'S h 5 that this building was j
lot 01 fucb durabl! >ty as to have lasted two '
centur.es ; that through the middle of the
~ , "J?" a n ' vcr e q u! >l in breadth to the
he Dejilah (Tigris) ; that the source of this
nve !; f the kingdom of Cafhmeer, and is
>1- earned along many furlongs through a deep
h . stone channel, which is called by the native.
-a Dcir Khak ; that over this river the inhabi- ' 1
tants had ere&ed upwards of 30 bridges,
£ feme of wood, others or stone, and fo s me of
ir, °? ats , 5 . at fe v «n bridges were the s
vicinity of the city: that the river above
~ ™ e " tloned > after traveriing the kingdom of
I th ' and 88 ;t I )aff es by
different places assumes different names, as
,i, JJundana, Hurnsed, and proceeding to Mul
?' ' taU L\ l r frt " nite3 with the Chinau (Chu- '
zuab ) "'hence, both ftrea.ns united,
pass on below Multaua and join the Rawee,
0 which from another quarter is joined by the
< Bejah ; the streams above mentioned then
unite with the Sindah (Indus) in the neigh
borhoodofthecity of OujeH (Ontbhf
t, wl ' e "« the five waters-joined are denomina
i, te , d o ? e "J ab (°ll the five rivers). The river '*,
. of Sindah passing by the city of Tattah,„
a or 7 d^ c h ar g« itfelf into the Oman (the
Persian Guljjh). Further, I was informed
. that the mountains which bound this coun- 4
1 l / y ar , e °, f ,mmfnfc hcVht and exceedinrfy
■_ formidable, .'eem as if formed as
, a ba [ rier for theSifety of the inhabitants,
; by the particular favor of God ; the diffi- ' '
> n f 4 bduin & th, ' s P'ace appeared con
, i ™ ; there wcre three ways of enteriW
> Cafhmeer, one from Hindoftan, which was
troublesome on account of the extreme nar
rowness of the passes, for on one fide the
mountain rises to an amazing and almost in
, accessible height, and the other is formed by
a deep cmvity overspread with numerous tall
trees, of furpnfing thickness, rendering it
an impervious sorest, those who wish to pass
to Cafhmeer by this road must here unload
their horses, camels, and other beasts of
h-tV'hich proceed singly by themselves,
.'I the ba gg a ge and merchandise is car
ned, upon the shoulders of the inhabitants
trained for the purpose, in this manner after
travelling two days they g*ain the top of the
mountain ; the second road is from Khorau
fan, which is extremely difficult, and the
third road is by way of Tibut (Thibet)
more easy and accessible, but thi. is likewise ' ,
rendered inconvenient by the poisonous herba
and shrubs that grow on the way, and which
inevitably destroy the cattle if they chance «
to feed upon them.
" Frailly, thy name is woman A Mrj. • 1
a newly made widow, aged 55, who
who attended the obsequies of a dear hvjband
at Manchester, about a month ago, was seen
on Saturday morning, with the tear of ten
derness in her eye (for (he had but one) over
the grave of her " lov'J a
friend passing by, feeing her in that contem
plative mood, said, '< I'm sorry for vou
poor woman, you've had a heavy loss ' '
" Yea, that I have 1" exclaimed affli<£l
ed widoW—her heart fcemmg ready to burfl
with anguish At that moment theclerk of
the Church came up and accosted her in 3
half whisper, with,, with, '< the parties are
now waiting What parties, Mrs.
M4.S said her friend. " Dont alk me,"
cries the melancholy matron—(grief almofl
choaking up her utterance) —« P m gain? to
q' " wrT ' (e t a S a ' n 'b" morning to M; g
London Paper.„ ... ■. v , X \
rn .1. 11' 11 I.I.HHUIIM I
By this day's Mail.
NEIV-TDRK, Sept. 14.
The arrival of the Alliance yejUrday from ,
Liverpool, lengthens (he jchain of European !
Intelligence, our Prints Icing five days later J
than ly the Factor ; -we'have received a Lon- '
don paper of SUNDsIT THE SIXTH \
OF AUGUST—" The latefl news yet re
ceived which contains the news of the Tex
elflee? $ failing.
— S
PARIS, July 19.
Five of the old ministers have been dis
missed. Of these five ministers, two may
flatter themselves with carrying off the cci>«
tempt of the whole nation—these are Charles
la Crpix and Truguet. They are replaced
by Talleyrand Perigord and Pleville Pe
ley. These two choices are generally ap
proved. Talleyrand Perigord will soon re
pair the folly of De la Croix ; with such a
minister, we may hefire that the tranquility of
Switzerland will not be dijlurbed; and that
•we fuallnot imur the scandal of commencing a
new war with the United States on the day
on which wef.gn a peace with the kings of Eu
rope, and on that day so much desired, ou
which Talleyrand Perigord is appointed to
accelerate it.
A private letter from Vienna of the 9th
inft. states the death of gen. Wurmfer.
July 25.
Brujfels, July 22. " The greater part
of the division commanded by gen. Ruhe
penfe, is crofling Namur to the interior of
the republic. It is oertain that a great
niimbeV of troops from all the armies has
received orders to.repair to Paris and the
environs of that capital. Malicious reports
have already been spread among these troops,
who are made to believe that a royalist
counter revolution is on the point of taking i
place immediately, and that government has
reeaurfe to them in order to prevent it.—-
Whatever be the object of this, the fad is
certain, and it is chiefly with the lighter
troops that this is attempted."
The 11th Thermidor, Gen. Hoche re
ceived at Gueldres an order from the minis- ;
ter of marine for a secret expedition, and to
assemble for that "purpose such troops as
might be necessary in the neighbourhood of
Brcft. It is said from Bto 10,060 men are
to be employed. Asthere was only in Bri
tanny fufficient infantry to guard the coast,
and no cavalry or artillery, Hoche has
drawn 6000 infantry from the army of the
Sambre and Meufe, besides 2000 cavalry and
1000 artillery. '
The above is the explanation given of the
march of the troops which has caused so
much uneasiness in Paris. ~ _
Nptwithftauding the cloud in the politi
cal atmosphere of Paris, that city is yet un
disturbed. /• ,
If we may believe public report, the ne
gociations at Lisle with England go on
much more rapidly than those at Montebel
lo with Austria.
' We are assured that gen. Sherer is ap- 1
pointed minister of war. 1 his general was
the predecessor of Buonaparte in command
of the army of Italy. 1
Papers frpm Milan, of the date'of the 12 th
July, state, that the king of Naples is form
ing magazines on its frontiers for a conside
rable number of troops —For what can -hey
be intended J It certainly cannot be to at
tack us, unfefs they mean to cause their own
ruin. Is it that on the death of the Pope
thep wish to seize his dominions ? But to
accomplish that they mult have our consent.
July 26.
The diffolutton of the clubs of all parties
is not the only facrifice which has been made
to the public tranquility. A reconciliation
which, after the fitting of the 24th July,
took place in the hall of the library of the
legislative body, has given hopes to the
friend? of their country.
Accounts have been received of great
disorders both in Nantz and Marseilles. The
agitators in the firft place are the royalists,
in the last the anarchists.
A partyi of French troops having entered
the territory of the little republic of Lucca,
the tree of liberty was planted, the feignieurs
put to flight, and the government instantly
demolished.
From ihe encroachments of his Frufhan
Majesty, the next step ps the Aulic council
.atVienna isexpe&cdto bean invitation to
the Emperor to execute its sentence, and
veinftate the oppressed parties in the posses
sions seized by the Pruflians. There can
be but little doubt but the emperor will un
dertake this commiffienagainft his hated rival.
Already do the Auftrians make every
preparation for openingthe campaign against
the Pruflians with success. A new corps
of 13,000 men, of the armies of the Up
per and Lower Rhine, which were cantpned'
between Franckfort and Heilburn, have
marched to' the neighbourhood of Wurf
burg; the troops encamped in the Upper
Palatine have been reinforced ; the fortref
fes of Ingolftadt, Ulm, and Wuriburg,
have been fortified in such a manner as to
hem in all the Prussian poffefiions in Fran
conia. . . ,
The Prussian cabinet, aware of its dan
ger, has marched a body of 10,000 men
from the dutchy of Magdebourg into the
circle of Fraficonia. It is said that the
celfbrated general Kalkreuth will repair to
the Tame quarter. .
Buonaparte, on the 14th of July, invit
ed his troops to make a rapid march into
France. He was much surprised that they
took the next day to debate upon this ex
pedition. He writes, that he was not able
to prevent them ;'yet he is a man who in
ceneral knows how to make himfelt obeyed,
and St is possible that they more regarded
hisintentions than his orders.
The different divisions of the army then
deliberated, arid flaming addresses came from
those of Angereau, Maffena, and Joubert,
each of them signed by from eight to ten
thousand men. . . .
It is often difficult to maintain order in
the deliberations ps moderate afT«»m'blie.s, w.e ,
way judge of what fort were the deliberi- '
t iou s of 50,000 nun, with sabres at their 5
fides, fixed bayonets, and more conversant
with military exercise than with politics or
the conftitujtion.
July 27. {_
Symptoms of & revolution are every day
apparent at Rome. They only sing the
Carmagnole, and other patriotic airs,and In
fill t the prelates, and other persons attached
to government as they pass in their coaches
A courier extraordinary from Italy,
which passed through Lyons on the 20th
of July reports, that a new infurredtion had
taken place at Turin—that the king and all
his court are prisoners—and that 5 or 6 per
sons of rank are maffacred.—L'ficlair.
Lenoir-Laroche, late appointed minifter 1
of police, has given fn h'« He
is fuccceded by citizen Solin, commissary of
the Executive Direftory in the department
, of the Seine—Reda&eur.
July 29.
A letter from Infpruck of the 12th inft.
states, that according to the last accounts
from Roveredo, General Laudrm has'taken
post at Riva. Being in want of provisions, :
he requested General Buonaparte to fend
him from Italy 30,000 sacks of corn, in
stead of which, the latter transmitted to him
80,000 sacks. This circumstance affords a -
nothcr striking proof of the success of the
Negotiations, at MontebeUo, and of the"
good understanding which prevails between
two parties.
We are informed by a letter from Vienna
of 12 th inft. that a coirfiderable train of hea
vy ordinance lias been sent to the confines
of Bohemia, the inhabitants of which king
dom have given his Imperial Majesty another
pledge of their loyalty and attachment, by
declaring, that in cafe of a war breaking
out ( on the frontiers, they are ready to rife
in a mass for the defence of the rights of
their Sovereign.
LONDON, July 27.
It is not unlikely but the French, after
having equipped their Mediterranean fleet,
by the materials found in the arsenal of Ven
ice, and having effefted a jun&ion between
that and the Venetian squadron, may pro
ceed towards Cadiz, for the purpose of for
cing Lord St. Vincent to retire from the
blockade of that port, cither by direttly at
tacking our fleet, or by making a diversion
in that -quarter. ShonU this projeft suc
ceed, they would'then, \y a junftion with
the Spanish fquadron,form' an effe&ive force
of,between 50 and 60 (hips of the line.—
Our gallant officers and leamen have happi
ly convinced all Europe, that though they*
are not iu the habit of counting their e»e
mies, they are able to conquer them, howe
ver superior in numbers. fhoold the plan
of the French he really such as we have
pointed out, Lord St. Vincent is doubtless
already acquainted with it, and will conse
quently take every poflible measure to pre
vent a junction between the Cadiz Tou
lan squadrons.
August 4. 6* )
The letters from Holland again assert in
the usual style of bombast—that the Dutch
fleet only"waits for a fair wind to put to sea,
and that it has nothing to fear from the En
gli(h. We are tired of reading the repeti
tion of such assertions, which ;Jre so well
known in this country to be fnlfe. We
(hall sooner cxpeft to hear of Admiral Dim
can fending some (hip 3 into the inner road
of the Texel, for the purpose of burning
their (hips.
A letter from the Italian frontiers or. the
17th ult. advises, that General Buonaparte
has threatened the Archduke of Tufcany
with marching a corps of Republican troops
into the Archduke's dominions, in cafe full
fatisfa&ion should not be given by the Tus
can government for the insults lately offered
•to several Frenchmen, both at Leghorn and
Pisa. ' -
August 6
At three o'clock yesterday morning an
afficer of the Circe frigate arrived at the
Admiralty Office, with an account that
the Dutch fleet had failed from the Texel on
Sunday last, An immediate communication
was made to the Office of the Duke of York
from whence dispatches were sent at eight
o'clock to Oer.eral Mufgrave, commanding
in the neighbourhood of Neweaftle; to Gen
eral Scott, commanding at Beverly, and
the Commanders of other places. The se
veral Cleicks of the admiralty were in atten
dance footi after three o'clock, and and ear
ly in the day the following letter was polled
at Lloyd's;
" Circe, Tarmouth, A.'h Sugi.jl.
" On Tuesday we* found ourfelyr s close
in with the Texel, and were much surpri
sed to find that there were not any Jhips of
force there. We spoke a fifhing-boat, and
were informed that'he enemy's squadron,
with a considerable number of' troops on
board, had failed on Sunday. Admiral
Duncan, qn the proceeding day, had weigh
ed anchor and put to sea. This is »all wc
could learn."
The strength of the Dutch is riot ascer
tained : it is only known that the fleet con
sists of five (hips c/f 76 and 74 guns, eight
of 66 and 64, and fix of 54 and 44, besides
frigates. The last account from the Hague
ftates,that in addition to the numerous troops
embarked on board four hundred transports,
that each 74 contained. 800 soldiers, and
smaller (hips in proportion ; but perhaps to
believe half what we heur would be to-be
lieve thrice too mifch. The fleet under ad
miral Duncan consists, if we mistake,, not, of
12 fail of the line, of which three are three
deckers, and two are of 80 guns. A much
less force, we are fatisfied, would, in the
event of an aftion, support the glory the na
tion has acquired, but it needs not an in
crease of gl°T > we are hlood
lefs victories. The cause of the departure
of our fleet, without which the Dutch could
not hare left the Texel, is yet to be ex
plained ; though if not a manoeuvre, it
doubtless was unavoidable.
The Circe having taken under convoy
. fcveral victuallers, with 40 axes, jo sheep,
&c. for admiral Duncan, could not go to
' the northward, where probably the 'British
fqu&dron has been driven. Should tt, in
working to its station, or in consequence of
j advice, fall in with the enemy, we predidl
the mnft important vi&ory Britain ever knew
because, we conceive the exigence of Ire
land at ifTue !—We do not an attack on
Britain-—The enemy might plunder a few
hamlets, when the gallant spirit of a people,
loyal, because th§v are comparatively hap
py, mould "overwhelm the assailants—But
Ireland ! naked and famifhing ; who fees,
or thinks she fees, the cruellest of all op
pceflor* in her .kindred and absent children,
.may be expedled to seize the semblance of
relief.
On the fubjt&.-of the affaio of Ireland we
have been, uniform in our hav
ing ever spoken from fara. Tt is a painful
and ungracious office to detail unpleafantries;
bat while duty, candor and independence
demand the recital, we (hall not blush in
being the medium. Happy shall we feel
when circumstances juftify a different lan
-1 guage.
j Between eight and nine yesterday morn- -
ing, the ffrft lieutenant of the Circe arrived
at the admiralty with a confirmation of the
preceding accounts; from which time to
putting this paper to 'press, no'further in
telligence had been received.
We yesterday received the BrufTels papers
to the ill of August : they contain intelli
gence from Vienna, of the 27th, being
fotne days later than that brought by the
Hamburgh mail of Friday. Count Mi
trowfki, general of artillery, has been ap
pointed to the government of Dalmatia, and
was immediately to depart for Zara. Gene
ral Wartenfleben had ftfcceeded to the go
vernment of Tra.ililvania ; and general Al
vinzy has been appointed to the government
of Hungary.
A great part of the Hungarian mass had
quitted the enrironi of Kormund, tind ad<
vanced towards Udine. troops are
to form a corps of refcrvc qn tbe right
imperkj army.
Grtat n'imbers of reoruks continued to
arriVe pt Vienna ; the garrison, barracks,
&o. were crouded, and several v/tre quar
tered iii the Fauxbourgs.
Geoeral Moreau, it appears by letters
from Strafburg of the -3d ult. was on the
eve of returning with his army to the interi
or part of France. A rout towards Italy
was prescribed to general Defaix.
A deputation from the cantons of Zurich,
Lucern, Claris, and Schweiz, have assem
bled at St.Gall, for the purpose of adjust
ing the differences ejeifting between the
prince Abbee and his fubjefts.
Letters from Frankfort, of the 16th ult.
state the head-quarters of the archduke Char
les to have been re-established at Schweiz
ingen. The Auflrian army between the
Upper Mayne and the Danube had lately
received considerable reinforcments. A
great number of Poles, but almost destitute
of and ammunition, have assembled on
the frontiers of Moldavia. The 4th battali
on of Spleng, andadivifion of the dragoons
of Savoy, had marched against them. The
Governor of Chotzym was making arrange
ments to drive them from the Turkish fron
tiers.
%ije oasettt.
PHILADELPHIA,
> Friday evening, S€P(tfmefr ij.
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
From the 14th to 15th Sept. in the morning.
Admitted, fihce last report,
Esther Rea, Tents in Common.
Eliza Hitner, Northern Liherties.
Peggy Lee, Water above South.
Elizabeth Shrylt, Mr. Nichotfon's near
New Market.
William Fleming, Market ftrcet wharf.
James Field, do. do.
Sarah Lang, Second by ?tew Market.
Prudence Jones, New Market-. l
Dilcharged since last report.
David Givens, admitted foth
George Preole, ,Bih
Abraham Cobbett, Bth
■ Catharine Turner, jun. Bth
Dsvid Wallace, Bth
• Biddy Burke, ? . 31 ft "ult.
Died, since last report,
William Hartoan, admitted 10th
, Patrick Rowe, 12th
Lyman Cady, 13th
Luke Williams, I2tb
Eliza Hitner,2\ hours
Elizabeth Boyd, lot b
ilenry Fitt, , sth
Remaining last Report 61
Admitted iince, 8
• j
Discharged o
Died' V 13
Remain inHofpital, jC^vakfccnts^l
' Interred in City Hospital Jurying ground
since laft'report :
' From tbe city and fubwrbs 7
j From the city hofpitSil 7
' Total 14
SVethen Girard,
j- (Signed)" "OXLEtf Lownes,
JdHN CoSNELL^.
1 Published by order of tlje Boart},
; JAMES OLDDEN,
Chairman prv. tem.
The sick at the Hospital being in need
e of fliirts, fhifts and other linens, luch bene
i volerit persons as" are disposed to, fend any,
- will please to leave them at th-: City Hall.—
t ftraw is also much wasted, and will be
thankfully received at the Hufpital, and
y paid for if required.
Tttals of burials /of- 24 hours, ending yefler- |
1 day at noon.
1 Grown Perfotis. Chili3r;n .
St.Pafll's £ o
Second Presbyterian 1 o
St. Mary's it' o
Trinity a o
Friends I O
Swedes I • o
Geifn&r* CaJvanilU 1 I
f otter's Fi'Jd I o
City Hofyital* Jo
Total 16 I
{* On* of theft fiom the city.
Died, In England, at his feat at Montreal,
near Seven Oaks, Kent, in the 83d year ef 1
his age, the Right Hon. Lotus Amherst, ; •
K. B. ;
To whom it may concern.
The labourers now_ employed on the high
ways to the northward of the city, instead
of fele&ing prOper materials for mending the
roacls, are absolutely making them worse
They are throwing clay into the highway,
where no more labour except the cradling ,
or fifting would give the heft quality of
gravel whieh is abundant near the spot, .
would make the roads good for years, which ,
they ate now spoiling. B. j
* % * A jiatcd meeting of the American Phi- j
lofophical Society will be held at their Hall at ,
7 o'clock this evening, Friday. Sept. 15.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST. \
<
Port of Philadelphia. j
No arrivals since out last. '■
Several of tl|e Fall vessels are reported to <
be in the riven. l The Cart from the Fort
had not come up when this paper went to
Press,
New Tori, September 14.
> RRIVID, DAYS.
Ship Alliance, Wood, Liverpool 30 |
. James, Brown, Hamburg 39 ,
Friends, Gardner, London 45 ;
Three Friends, Grimes, Amfter. 84
Diana, Neil, ditto
Barque Mattha, Cummings, Bordeaux 145 ,
Brig Sifters, Nutter, Charleflon 10 ,
Rebecca, , Havre 54
American vefTels left at Hamburg Aug. 1,
when the James failed.
Veffr.ls belonging to New York.
Ships Sifters, , Diana, Jenkins —• ,
Rajah, Seton—Mary, Yewers—Brigs Eli- 1
za, Newfham—Eliza, Kjng—Effex, War- 1
del—and Tennessee, Smith.
To Philadelphia.
Ships Indoftan, Merchant—Aurora, Su
ter—Harmony, Price, and Borrican, Beach.
To Bojlon. 1
Ships Asia,- Lamb—John, Folger—
Perian, Dana —and Union, Blake.
Ship Carlton, Martin, of Baltimore.
One of Richmond, and one of Charles
ton—the Neptune, Pease, of Warren, and
the Success, Gurdley, of Gloucester, and
one of Wifcaffet, captain Senbarb.
The ship Providentia, formerly the Tam
many, of New York, to fail the beginning
of August.
American vefTels carried into Nentz.
Ship Oneida, of and from New-York,
bound to London. Ship Confederacy, of
do. from China, bound to Hamburgh.—
Brig Juno,'of Portsmouth, £N. H.] from
Charleflon to Rotterdam. Ship Charlotte,
of and from Charleston toLnncafter. Ship
Rainbow, of and from Charleston to Lon
don, condemned. Brig Catharine, ofNew
buryport, from Alexandria to Rotterdam.
Ship Port Mary, Packwood, is fafe ar
rived at Liverpool,in 28 day; front thii port.
The ships Dispatch Hnd Pigou,. failed 11
days before the Alliance, for this port.
The Eunice, Seal, from Liverpool for
Philadelphia, and Phoenix, Simpfon, for
London, are taken by the French and car
tied into Nantz.
The fliip Caledonia, Hodge, was to leave
Liverpool, for this port, August 12.
A Liverpool paper of August 7, fays,
La Vengeur French privateer, has taken 75
prizes.
The English {hip Deris, Lord Rane
lagh, has captured two rich Portuguese Bra
zils ships anda French (hip of 30 fix pound
ers and 127 men.
Boston, September 9.
Arrived brig Charlotte. Noble, Liver
pool days.
Brig Nancy, Moulton, Bremen, 56 days.
At Liverpool—July 20.
For Alexandria, &c., Magnet, Choate,
to fail early in August and ship Alknomac.
For Norfolk, brig Eliza, and ship Neutral
ity, Dawfpn, to fail ip a few days. For
City point, &c. Virg. fhfy Planter, Driver ;
and ship Flora, Collry ; brig Patty, Lee,
For Charlifton, (hip Powhatan, to fail Ju
ly 31. For Wilmingfon, (hip Claremont,
to fail in a few days ; and ship Caledonia,
Hodge,, to fail- do. For Savannah, fliip
Franklin, Hammond, to fail in a few days.
For Baltimore, ship Sally, Holbrook, to
fail in- a few.days ; snow Eliza, Beufon ;
and (hip Beocsf, Cunningham. For Phila
delphia, (hip; Seymour, Willis ; (hip- Com
merce, Waitwait ; ship jaryis, to
fail firft week in August and (hip Clothier,
Gardner. For New-York, (hip Catharine,
Macey /hip Swain, Woodman ; ship Al
liance, .Wood; Port Mary, Tack wood ;
(hip America, Smith; arid Pigou, Sinclair.'
For Boston, (hip Packet, Troot, to fail in
- all July ; delight, Wilsons inaftw days ;
and Hope, Candler, do. _/
Deal, July 18.
.Sailed, James and, William, Wpayeott,
for Virginia.
Graveft-ndwiulv 17.
Patted, the Tria', -,"m Savan
-1 nah, Sailed, the Montezuma, Chaee, for
- Maryland.
, The American fliip, Illustrious President,
- Kerr, arrived at Cowes, from Batavia, Ju
: ly 15, informed that fevpral American vef
,3 fehhad.been taken.Ky French cruizers and
carried into' thi jyiauvitius.
Arriv'cl A? Uverpoo
I Two Sifters, Hiliiyn, from WifcafTet, ti«
, ken by * Preach, privateer, retaken by the
! Apollo frigate ; Swan, Woodmdn, New-
I York-; Profperitjf, Craig, Virginia.
! The Sally, I_oveli, from Surinarti for
Amfl-erdam is sent into England.
The Rambler, Skinner ; and Jane, Dun
ham, hence, are at Charleston,
The Dolphin, Graham, of' Boston ; and
. Recovery of Weathersftrld, failed-from Ja
maica, in co. After failing, Frenchmen
| on board the Recovery, rose, ami murdqr
j ed or compelled the mate to jump overboard,
riiev put the capt. of tHe Recovery on
board a Daniill vefiel. The Frenchmen
swearing when left, that they Would purfu*
and fink the Dolphin, because her captain
was a d d American b r.
Kennebeci, Aug. 30.
Mr. Benjamijl Ruflell,
SIX,
I arrived here yejlerday, from Antigua,
Left there 6th infl. flip IJon, Proctor, of
Bojlon, from Bourdec-ux, to St. Thomas, ta
ken and brought in, cargo condemned. Schr.
| Hawi, Strand, of Baltimore, for Ouadaloupe,
waitbtg for trial. Sch. Diana, Weldon, of
New-Bedford, to fail in 3 days ; ship Olive,
jo' Brian, oj Neiu-Torh ; brig Adive of Phi
ladelphia ; flonp Rofetta, Bwwton, of Nor
ivali, jufl arrived ; brig Nathaniel
Harmon, lati mafbr, belonging to Old Tori,
died on thepaffage from.Ncrth Caroline. A'
merican produce very low. Lat. ",Q, N. long.
65» fpoie fch. Sally and Mary, Cross,
| from Portland for Surrinam, 5 day* out, all
well, La!. 41, tf: long, 68, fpoie Schr.
Cynthia, Ramfdcll, from Salem for Surrinam,
3 days out, all well.
four,, r dc. JOSEPH HATCH,
[Commander of the fch. Fortune.
Dover, July 17.
This day arrived the William Perm, Jo
fiah, from Philadelphia; from which (hip
upwards <sf23oo letters have been landed,
and forwarded by this 'eveutngVinai!.
Portsmouth, July 18.
Put back by contrary winds, Pompee
man of war, and Argo frigate, with the
outward bound East and Weil India and
Lisbon fleet.
MEDICINES.
THE wPoor who may find it inconvenient, front
diftanc-, to make use ps Mr Hunter's truly me
ritorious offer, \v:ll be supplied with medicines—
barley, oatmeal, &c. by ap- lying: at the
fubferiher's store, No. 36, Market-street.
ROBERT S. STAFFORD.
Lately Publiflied,
In one vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar in boards}"fold
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner it Sec nd and
Chd'nur Greets,
A Colle&ion of Papers on the fubjeft of
Billious Feveri, prevalent in the United
States for a few years past.
Compiled by MO AH IVHES TER, jun.
Containing letters from Do(9or» Seaman, Smith,
Buel, l aylor, Ramsay, Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch
el!, en contagion,,&c. &c.
■ s cpt H.
The Health-Office "
IS removed to the City-Hall, and i< kept open >
night and day, where perfonr. having bafl;:, fc may
apply. Wm. ALLEN K Hcalth-OfHcer.
Sept. 4! dtf
: NO lie K.
THE Offices of the Department of War are for
the pr sent removed neac to tile Falls of the Sctiyl*
kill, on the Ridge Road.
September 4. «M
Higgins' Specific
FOR Thß
PREVENTION AND CURE OE THE
YELLOW FEVER.
EVER fine." this disease made ftfch ravages in this
1 city and New-York, the autnor has turned his
! attention to its causes and cure.—The result of his
i enquiries has convinced him that the reason why fa
| fe\x nerfons recover froin its attacks, are Srom its
not being well underflood, and the codfequent
wronjr method taken to cure it. He is persuaded
that the e'xreilive lileedigns and roercurivl reatment
of the Faulty i* .higlily injurious, and that tHe on
ly rational mode of treatment is by the use of proper
acids. Convinced of this he offers his Sfedjic. as a _
cer:ain remedy, if used according to the dire&ions.
To be had in bottles, at one dollar each, of the
inventor Geo. Cherry street., two doors a
bove Ninth street, (late manager of Jackson and
Co'« Medicine Warehouse, London); by J.Le
bianco No. 3{6 ; IV. Griffith) No. 177, T. Pearee, No.
II p. South Third street, T. Stiff, No. 55, New street,
near Vine ftre«t t and J. Gales, Ne. 36, Race street.
Aiig. 25. turhs jfc
Mrs/*'G RATTAN
INFORMS her friends,and the public in genera],
that hrr house, No. 191, Market-street, will con
tinue open during the fieknefs.
Board ami Lodging in a separate room, ten
dollars, in a double room, eight dollars.
For the convenience qf ihofe gentleman who
have not their aniilieJ in town, Mrs. ©rattan
will receive jentlemen to,dine at half a dollar
a day. Augufi V). —6t
Rofs iff
HAVB FOR SALE—
T Hr.gflieads,
Excellent Coffee in < Tierces, and
C. Bai'rei=.
A fTrial] parcel of nice coco?, in bags
■\ few j unchcons Jamaica I'piritj, loilrth proof
Superipr Tereriffc wine, eld and in Madeiripirea
An invoice of jewellery and liofiery te be fold by
the package
a few hampers belt EoglKU cheese.
J".!r a - /
injurance Company of North America.
"""pHE Stockholders in this company are here
i by informed, that, porfufnt to the fifth
clause of their Charter, and at the request of a
" Number of Stockholders, who, together, are
proprietory of Six Xhoufantl Sh.ares, and up
wares," a general meeting of the Stockholders
will be held at the Company's Office, on Mon
day the 25th day of September next, at u
o'clock, A. M. for the purpol'e 01" filling up a
' vacancy in their Dirjftion (ar 0 taking into
consideration such Hegulatior.s or Rye La-vs as
may be presented in conformity *ith the Char
- tcr of Incorporation.
t , ' EBEiV. HAZARD, Set'ry.
July 20. . w^lt.iis
' Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
' Ditto di'tr- Claret in cales
Tuft rectived, ar.'d for Sale by ,
d Bundle & Leech.
Aug. 21. iawt£t'f/E DOLLARS RMARD.
RAN a(ray irom thd an indented
Servant Girl, named Navcy j nderbon, a
\)on*t twenty year* of age, (hort, thick set person,
with Hiort Kiack hair ; had on when lhe wt nt away,
a dark ffclic'o g'bwn, an old Ijlack fi!k cloak, and a
black fur. hat. Whoever will secure said girl, and
give inforh-.ation thereof to tiie I'ubfcHber, No. z,
Greenleal alley, or to the office of this Gazette,
[hall rrceive,*hti above reward
All pej-lofris .are ferbid harboring said girl y as
they will be dealt with as the law dire As
MARY ANDERSON,
N. B. Said Girl is from Ireland, and has been i*
V.ns country but a ihort time ; file was ft lit to the
\vorl;-houfe for mHcoi'dutfi, where ibe was taken
lick and removed to the city-hofpitil, from which
plici 'he made her escape.
/hqrri'l eoU
io be foid at Public Venyue,
To the highest bidder, at the houi'e of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Qyeen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 25th
of Odlober next, at n o'clock, A. M
\ About seven thousand acres of land,
ihe property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifter's-town and Westminster,
commonly called Little Winchester, (thi turn
pike road runs through a considerable part of
these lands) the trail begiu3 about 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
of said Reiiler's-town, and extends to the dis
tance of abnVit twenty-three miles from Bilti
nmrc, and lies oh the main falls of Pata£>lico
river, frbm three .to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each trail,
fotne of them highly improved, with excellent
bjijdiiigs and fine g-ir.-fs.
AtSO
A trafl of seven hundred acfet of
called Clover Farms, withiil five.miles of
Biadenfhurg, edeemed very good for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby.of Bladenfbiugh,-will (hew
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
also,
A traft of land of about thrse hun
dred and thirty ?cres, within about two miles
and a half o the President's house in the Fede- ;
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpeil) fron. which may be fcen th*
city of Walhington, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
And a oart of George-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfon
by,(,of Bladenlhurg, will also fiiew this land.
A tihcral Credit will be given for the greatest
part of the purchase money. >he terms will
be nia.ie known on the day ef sale.
Mav 8 , • wire
11
Just Received,
From Batavia( via Providence)
a few Boxes of Spices, confiding of
\ Cloves and Maec
For sale by
mLLltiGSllf FR.INCIS,
Penn flrtct.
teoy 30 dtf
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 3191 High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BfclNG bulied for fom« time p»d in prepara
ti6ns for rehioving into his prolent house, has
been under thenecttntyof podponinguntil thinday
Informing the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro'
the United States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged jr,d ready for la!e, en
terms that he trusts will entitle him to the like pro
fteeilcc he has experienced for Fevcral years pail.
Cat-l6gne», combining the moil varied eollec
tion ever imported ie.to this country, are printed
and lyiil be delivered on application.
June 17. iaw 6w
City Comiriijjioners Office,
June 1,1,! 1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the'felefl
and common councils, pa, Ted the aid day of
May lad, appointing the cit-y commifiioneri,
and prescribing their duties, feiiion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEKEBY; GIVEN,
Tliat the city is divider! into'five didriils,
<ach to be under th"e fuperintendance of one of
the city commiflioners, wboistobe individually
relponiible for the eleanlinefs of the fame, and
are as follow.
Driftriil No. I. From the south fide of Ce
dar-ftreft, to the north fide ofSpruce-ftreet,un
defthc fuperistendence of Nathan Boys.
1. From the north fid? of Spruce-street, to
the north-fide of Walnut-street, under thefuper
intendence of Hugh Uobertf.
3. From the north fide of Walnut to thefouth
lide of High-ftwet, under the superintendence of
Joseph Claypocrfe.
4. Fr.>mt!ie north High-ftreet, to the
north fidr of Mulberry fireet, under the super
intendence of William Moulder.
5. From the north fideof Mulberry street to
the north fide of Vine-street, under the fuper
iuttndence of Nicholas 1-licks.
The cleaningof High-flrest to be in common.
A dated meeting of tht city comrainion
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at s o'clock
Julv '4- eoim
Stands for Draymen, &c.
In purjuanet of an Ordinance from tbeSelefl and
Common Coune ts,bearing date tbe ixd day of
jlprit, 1797, providing for the appointment of
City Gommijffionei's, Site. Seis. the Istb.
THE fcdlowing places are fixed upon by the
said City CommifSoners for Stands for
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vme-flreet, eastward of Front-street, on
both'fides.
Sa(Tafraß, High,Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eastward ot Front-street, on the no.th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fi<j c from Front to
Third-street. ,
Front-ftre«t, east fide from Vine-street to
Elfrith'6 alley.
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Water-street, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Moore's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce-Jar-ftreet, weft
fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pipe and South lireets, east of Ftost
street, south fide.
Dock-ltreet, between Walnut-street and the
flag ft one. crofangs, east fide, opposite George
Orkley's.
Scccnd-ftreet, between SafTafras and Viae
Hreets, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry street",
Saflafras-areet, from Third to Fojirth-flreet,
east fide.
No dray" or horse to stand within ten feet of
any pump. , ]
STANDS FOR' H/ICKNEY COACHES.
Pine-street, north lide from Fourth to Fifth ,
fireels. 1
Fifth-ftrfet, between Chefnut. and Walnut (
streets, weft. , '
Branch-street, north Gde, between Third and (
Fonrth ftreeis. '
July 14. rnw&fim f
A Literary Treat.
Just puimhtd, handfomtly printed on iv tiling
paper, price 1 dollar,
A new edition of that popular and entertaining
■work, untitled
THE FORESTEKS, an .American Tale ; being
a fequd to the hiftcry of john Bull, the
thier— In afericsof letters to a friend, with the ad
dition of two letters, alluding to recent political
tranfailions in America,
Th« following extrail from the Clavis Allegories,
foews the principal characters that arc introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of England 2;
His Mother, theCHirchof injjtend
His Wife, the Parliament
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis, the Xingdom of France
Hi« Miftrijft, the Old Conditution
His nsw Wife, the National Reprefeatatlon
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic
The Farefters, the United States of Amcriia
Robert Lumber, New-Hamplhire
John Codline, Ma'ffachufetts
Humphrey Plowshare, Connecticut
Roger Carrier, Rhode lfland
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
Julius Cefar, New-Jersey
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
Caflimar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
His Grandibn, George Wafliington
Peter Pitch, North Carolina
Charles Indigo, soutk Carolina
©eorge Trui>y, Georgia
F.than Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter L(?ngknife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves
Rats, Speculators
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
-JV This popular and entertaining fatiricalhiflo
ry of Am«ricais attributed to the Rev. Dr Bel
knap. It hasa great (bare of originality and a
bovinds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and charaAerifes thole
late political tranfaclions which have caused so
much uncaCnefs in America.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
South Second Strict, and No. 50, Marke f ftaeet.
j June 16. §
LAW BOOKS,
Latefl London and Dublin Editions^
H. iff P. RICE, BockjcMcrs, ,
- No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market flreet,
V Y AVE just received by the late arrivals from
li London and Dublin, their spring importa
tion, confiding of a variety of the latest and mod
approved 1 aw Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the modei tensive collection ev
er offered lor sale in this country. They thei Wore
beg leave to notiije, that from the nature of their
conne&icnsin Dublin, they are ebabled to fclllrifh
editions (a# they have hitherto done) at the very
lowed prices. The following are among the laaell
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, a ve-i.
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwicke ; Floyer's'Procters
Pra&ice in the Ecclesiastical Courts; Barton's
Tr atife on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Practice Of
the Court of King's Bench in Perfopal Afiions, a
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, 1a vols. Loudon edi
tion.
H. and P. Rice expeft t» receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and Ead's Reports, the ad part of Gil
. bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 26.
The Hiflory of PennlyTv ania,
Bv ROBERT PROUD,
IS now iu the press, and will be publilhed,
■with all convenient expedition, by ZtCHA
riah PouLSnN, jun. No. go, Chefnut-ftrett,
Philadelphia, where fubfcription9 will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to tbe printed propjfals, until the
work is ready for the fubicribert.
July 18. ■ aa/vtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHJJMILLER, Jun. & Co.
/Ye. 8 Ch.fnHt-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly albi ted, very low on
Ihort credit.
March 6. §
Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
4S, South Fifth-ftrcet.
AUgust 2. w&f6t
LancaQer, Harrijburgh Carli/le,
Shippenjburg and t Sunbury.
STAGES.
THE public ar * reqticded to take notice, that
the partnerlhip which has for sometime sub,-
(iftfd betweon Mathias Slough of Lancader, aud
William Geer, is now dilTolved : bat, not as M.
Slough infinuatesto the public withoutjuft cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on she fub
je<St frornM. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 39th
December lad. a recital of which is not now deem
ed ncceflary. Any gentleman wh» wifhe« to be
more circurpftantially informed of the' merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal »f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not
Geer is not perfectly judifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other pejrl'on in the protecution of tbe
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenl
ur'g, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were plcafed to confer on the firft effort in
this business, VTilliani Geer, in -conjun&ion with
Meflrs. Reily, Weed and Winner, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic canpoffibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
Vender the paflage fafe and commodious, inform
those wno wifb to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, ?o proceed to Lancader, Harrilburg,
Carlisle and Shipptnfburg. The fare as 'hitherto
1 edablifhed.
For the further accommrdation of the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday froihthe house
of Samuel in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
and return from thence and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so tbar (nffeilgers destined for
Lancader or Philadelphia, ma,y proceed om Mon-
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancader. Jan. »7, 1797.
N. B. 'i™ is Line as Stages ftartg /rem the
hsufe of Wiiiiam Feiroc, in Lancader,, on every
Tuelday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro-
the westward; and from the house of
nr. Samuel Elder in Hamfburg every Wodnef
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thurway : perforniiDg the
fame routine daily at in its lour from Philadel
phia.
City of Walhiagion.
SCHEME
\ Of the Lottery, No. li,
For the Improvement nf the Federal Cily.
A nrugriijicentdwelljng-houfe *o > ooodollar? >
& cafU 30,*0, arc 50,0015
I ditto
I I ditto 15,000 & caih 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & caih 10,000 io,ooo
1 ditto 5,000 & caib 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & caih, 5,000 10,600
1 cithpTiieof ro,o«o
1 do. 5,010 each,are « 10,000
10 dm x,oi-o - - jo, 00c
ae do. 500 - - 10.000
00 - 4 - 10,000
a io do. so ~ - 10,000
400 do. aj - - 10,000
1,000 do. £ ao. - »0,000
15,00s do. ™ 'vo - ij»,ooo
'6.7J7 Prizes.
33,161 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight J>ollar«, 4110,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a qiiari
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will.be
the l<3T drawn ticket, anci the 30,000 the last
but onz :
And approvednotes, fcCTirin"- pay*ient in either
monsy or prizes, in ten days atter drawing, will
be recsived for any number not loft than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fprcimen of
the private buildings to be ert&ed in the City of
Wafliington—Two beautiful defigps are already
leleded for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawing»it ispropofed to erect
twocentjcand r ourcorser h*ilding6 as foonaspof
fible aftrf this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the fcherne for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett dedutftion of five per cent, will
be made to defray the neccffary expenfis of print
ing, &e. and the furplut will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Oniverfity, *0
be erecled within the city of Wafliington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the paymaot of the
Prizes, are held by the Prefideut and two Dire&-
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amouht ot the lottery.
SAM'JEL BLOIiGET.
,§ 4 Tickets may be had at the Banlc oi Colim
bia ; of J -nea Weft & Co. Baltimore; of! Fettr
Gilman, Boftoti ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Richard Walls, Cooper's Ferry.
. ; \ mwf
From tie Otfego Herald.
CAUTION.
WHEREAS a combination of men in tM*
county have undertaken to enrich thtm-,
selves.by fabricating titles tofundr/ valuable tra As
of land, the property of gentlemen living in New
Yoik, Philadelphia, London and Paris, lor which
trails of hud large fu/ns of money have been paid
to those fraudulent men, by innocent purchasers •
It is therefore ju ft that public information (hould
be given, to the end, that the injured may seek re
dress while the raen have property, and are to be
found. Those who have been discovered are Tru
man Harrifon, Jofepli Witcomb, said now to re
side in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and
several otheri who go under fictitious names. It is
supposed that the lands offered fcr falcon those fa
bricated titles, are at lead worth fifty thousand
dollars. Such as we have a&ual knowledge of are
as follows : Lots No II and la, Otfego patent,
thcufand acres each, the adual property of William
Dellw)n, now of Loudon ; lots No. 58 and 64,
fame pstent, thousand acres eaeh, the property of
Mr. Chaumont, now of Paris, and James Averill
and other*, of this State. There is some grounds
to suppose that the lands of Richard W ells and
Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their
management.»— The Printers will do well to give
this a place in their papers, as well to caution the
public against purchasing those iand6, as also to de
prive those men in future from imposing on indivi
dual, which their education and addiefs have en
abled them todo heretofore. Witcomb has been
a ihupkeepcr of some note in this country.
The following affidavits will set in a clear point
of. view the wicludrefs of those men,which when
the public have perused, will induec them to ex
cuse the interference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July 18th, 17J7.
J Thomas Kelly, of the County of Otfego, hav
ing been led into an error, by John Witcomb and
Truman HarrifoO, of the fame County, to sign a
deed to thani, for lot No. 58, Otfego patent, which
was the property of William T. Franklin now Mr.
Chamont's and others; and further /'it said Joseph
and Truman did persuade me to do this against my
inclination, which was made out on the rcth day
of November, 1793, or set back two years so as
to bring it to that time ; and further the name of
Pardon Starks to that deed was a fictitious nam-.*,
there being no such perlon (here. To this 1 make
voluntary onth. THOMAS KELLY.
19th July, 1797.
On the 19th July, 1797, came personally before
me, Thomas Kelly, the fubferiber to the above af
fidavit, and made ibleran oath that it contaias noth
ing but the truth.
FLIHU PHINNEY, Justice of the Peace.
On the 18th July, 1797, Game before me Jacob
Kibby, a jieffoti'by it)e well kuoWn and worthy of
good credit, who on his folcmu oath did fay, that
two of the parties abovementioned did make ap
plication to him this deponent, funic time in the
winter of 1796, to make them a deed for two thou
sand acres of land in the Otego patent, and pro
mised this deponent a (hire of the profit?, on the
sale of said lands, for his so doing ; and thut they
made applicatioSfeveral times for the fame purpo e,
which services this deponent as often refufed, de
claring to them that he had no right to lands, and
couUldo no such thing ; which daring attempt on
this deponent's integrity he had related ationg his
friends several tiaies. previous to making this affi
davit. JACOB KIBBEY.
Sworn before mc,
ELIHU PHINWEY, Justice of the l'eaca.
Aug. 3. law4W.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
ELOPED from the service of the fubferiber,
on the 19th instant, a negro man by the
name of DICK, about t*rt nty-five years o'" age,
and five feet nine or ten inches high ; by trade
a carpenter, and is a very lively brifli work
man. His countenance is very good—When
spoken to, he eonvcrfcj with cafe and confi
dence, and is prettv sagacious. I purchafcd
the said fellow of Mr.Dubney Minor, in whose
name he lias been advertised in the Richmond
newspapers. During his la(l rt*navvay trip (last
fnmmerj he waspmployeda considerable lengtk
of time, by fomr, peivfon r/eaj Dumfries, from
which circu'nlftajufc, J conjeflure, he has taken
another nothern route I forcwarm all persons
from giving him employment, of any kind
whatever, and maftersof vefTels and others, from
carrying him out of this ftatc. The abpve re
ward will, be given if he is taken within forty
miles of this city; and an additional sum, in
proportion to the distance he may be brought
or the troubje and expence the apprehender may
be at, in bringing him to this place.
AUG; DAVIS.
N» B. His apparel was of the ufiral negro kind,
buthe had more cloaths tjian is eufiomary for
them to polTets.
AD.
Richmond, Juik 11, 1797.
Will be landed,
From 051 board the ship A Jiv«y Capt. Blair, from
KamV.tiigh,
20 baits white Ituflia clean lierop
1 2 c,u!ks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Letffir,
North Fifth {lrect, No. 34.
( Tnnr ( (
William Blackburn,
1 LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICF
1 No. 64 south Second {lreet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
coiv.menced drawing the 29th May, FGil
SALE. The price of tickets will rife iu propor
tion as 1112 driwing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firli dr.wn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the iafl day ot
dra^v.ijg-.
Check Books kept for examination and register
ing', :n thy Canal, No. 2, City of Washington, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries,
Also, tickets for falc in the Schuylkillbridgse and
Perk.onien Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the cotirfe of the fiimraer.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- See, tranfa&ed with the
utraofl a;tenti«n.
June 2 tu&f
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL &' Ca.
, No 40 South S-econd street,
[Price 31 CchtsJ
A VitKu of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May 15 §
~S TA TE TRIALS.
Sold by W.Young, Bookseller, No. 5 ft, South Se
coitd-ftreet,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtairing the impeachment, trial, and acquit
al of Francis Hopkinfon, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3 1
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general aflortmentof
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
age, well afiorted,and entitled to the drawback if
axportcd. July 7
rHESUBSCRIBER. having been appointed by
the Envoy hxtreordinary and Mir.nler Pleni
potentiary of his Britannic Majesty, General A gent
tor aflifting British creditors, and such particular *-
gknts ai they may specially authorize, in profeauting
their claims before the e«mmiflioners for carrying in
to the sixth article ot the Treaty of Amity, Com
merce and Navigation between his Jiritanttk Maye/iy and
the United Sutes of America, hereby gives nonce that'
he has opened his ofßce at his houle the south eatk
corner of Chefnut and fifth ftieets, Philadelphia f
where he is ready to receive all claims or initruftious
j for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the purpofc of bringing forward the fame agree
ably so the rules and orders which the board may
think proper to prescribe.
| And as it will be for the interest of all concerned,
that the several claims be so dated, and fupporU
ed, as to prevent the delay whioh would arise from
theyieceflity of obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials,froin persons Tefiding at »distance,
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (for the
dire&ion chirfly of those, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the prosecution of
their claims to his charge and management) that all
such claims ought in particular to set torih—
I id. The proper defcripiion and Titration of the
1 croditoror claimant, and original debtor, refpeft
j ivcly.
td. The date andoature of the original contract or
debt. I '
3d. When, in wkat manner, and to whataktent,
the creditor or claimant w«s prevented or impeded,
by the provision, operation or of law, the
I decifionsand practice of courts, or rcftiaint of exe
cution, from recovering payment of the debt iu
quedion.
4th The loss and damage incurred or fuftalned,
in confcquence of such impediments, whether tfie
fame may have arifeo from the infolvcuey, change of
situation, or death of the debtor, the less of legal
remedy from lapie of time, or other causes impairing
the value and fccurity of the debt, which would not
have so operaud if such impediments had notcxifled.
The particular grounds and reasons on
which the claimant maintains, in the terms of the
treaty, that " by the ordinary course of judicial pro
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and actually
have and receive full and adequate com pen fation" for
the lofles and dimoges so fuftaiued.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to fug
£efl that the feveial claims ought to be accompanied
and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
fwom and regularly attefled. both as to theaxiftwee ,
of the debts claimed, and such other tikun\flances
as may be within their own knowledge reipcAively.
And wherever the clajmanrs in staling the nature of
their evidence (which mufl in every instance be the
be ft of which the ca'e is capable) have occasion to
refer to theteUimony of witneiTes, it wilt be proper
to apprifathe general agent of the names and plac<*
of residence of such fadlsto be cfta
ifhed by thoix tcflimony.
Wtn. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June i7Q7» d
For Sale,
That well known place, called Vjndeorift's
K H « y,
ONNelhaminycreeik, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the Ke* YorTt poll road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premiCesarea iarge two llory flone hou'epecu
pied as atvern, and a good one llory stone kit
chen, a large frame fl*ble with a good threlhing
floor, and some out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a mod elegant situation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Ntfham
iny toitsjundlion wiih the Delaw:«:e, and thence
acro!»to the Jersey ihore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Subscriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
Vav 24- atawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOM BRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpeis>, returns her fmcere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
the ha« received during four years refidettce i»
Philadelphia ; and afl'ures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, (he has made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and niafters exctlliDg in their
refpedlive profeffions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797. ijitnfrf (
The situation is perfe<fl!y healthy ; aadmade |
more agreeablefijr an extensive garden and jot
of ground adjainirtg.«he house.
fujl Published, :
And to be had of MefTrs. DoVi'on, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfcliers in t'le
city,price one dollar, twmty-sve cents,in hoards, {
New Views or the Origin of the j
Tribes and Nations of America.
- By' BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. o,
June »o. - 'it
No. 183.
i B 'tfirifi of Petmjyktania, to -Mb :
IJK IT REMEMBSRi'I), fiat on the
' hUccnth day of June, in the twenty
Grft year of" the Independence of th* United
States of America, Jam s Wogdhoi/si', of
the laid dtfli'idl, hath depAlited in this office the
title of a hocik, the whereof he claims as
author, in the words following, to wit :—•
" Ihe Younpr Chemtfl's l'oclcct Companion,
" being- a Deftriptiott of a Portable Laboratory,
'• containing a Philosophical apparatus, and %
" great number of .Chemical Afents, by which
1 " any person may perform an endless variety of
" a/r.ulirig aiid.infiruifling Experiments,defign
■ "ed lor the use of ladies and gentlemen, and
• " intended to promote the cultivation of the
" Ameri'-a. By Jam c s Woodhou se, M. D.
" Profefl'or of Chemistry, in the University of
" Pennfytvania, Prefidcnt of t!ie Chemical So
" ciety of Philadelphia, &c.
" -At prifent every thing that is rot denomi
| " nated Chemistry, is but a small' |nrt of a fyf
" tem of natural knowledge.
, Priefily on Air."
In conformity totheafl oftheCongrefsof the
United States, intituled, " Anaft for the encour
agement of Learning,by feruring tb« copies of
maps, charts, and books to the authors and pro
prietors of such copies, during the lime 6 there
in mentioned"
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Cl<-rkof the
Diftridl of Pennsylvania.
July 18. . d 3t —wstf
No. 188.
Dijlricl of Pennsylvania, to <u/it :
(l. 1.) R E n ' REMEMBERED, that on the
U twenty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of .America, John Fknno, of the said dif
tri<sl,hath deposited in this office the title of a book,
the rio-ht whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit :
" Observations on certain documents contained
• 5 " in No. V . and VI. of "The Hiilory of the Uuit
" ed States for the year 17961" in which the charge
of fpecufation, againil Alexander Hamilton, la'e
" Secretary of the Treof*ry, is fully-refuted—
" Written by himfelf ■"
In conformity to the of the Corigrcfs of the
Ucitfd States entituled, "An lit for the encour
agement of learning, by feeuring the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors an<? propri-'
etors of such copies, during the times therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk ttj tbe DiJlriSl oj Pennsylvania m
J u 'y 2 7- wjw
Public Notice is hereby given,
X presented to the Court of Cowimon Fleas,
held *t Y«rk Towji, in the 3tate of Pennsylva
nia, at the instance of James Short, praying
the Court to supply a loft deed made by a cer
tain Andrew Hickenluber, to Hugh Morrifon,
James Morrilon, and John Sample, executors
to Hans Morrif.n, deceased, for si* hundred
townlhip, in the county of York •• —All per
foils who have any objections to make to the ob
jetfl of the ftid petition ire desired to attend at
the Court House, in the town of York, on the
jth day of September next, otherwise the loft
deed will be supplied.
JOHN EDIE, Clerk.
"July 18. eetS.s
30 Dollars Reward.
.
RAN away on Saturday two indented Ser
vants, Gilford Dally, a mulatto boy. about 17
years of age, a Aim light built active fellow, can
read and wVite,five feet seven or «igh« inches high,
has a heavy countenance; had nn a fuftian coatee'
and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine (hoes 4cc.
Allan Heltons, a black map, about 14 years of
age, five feet seven or eight inches high, a thick set
clunify built fellow, particularly about the breech',
had on a fai'or's blue jacket lined with fwanfkix;,
dark striped vest, fuftian trowfers, high clowned „
hat, coarse flioes, &c.; each of them had fevers!
feirts and several other cloathes with them. Thir
ty* Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or 1 < Irl
lsrs for each, and reasonable charges, ob delivering
them at No. 54, North Third-ftrcet.
The black fellow is about a year from Lewis
Town, in the Connty of Sussex, fiate of Dela
ware, ana has taken the boy with him.
J» ! y .U- ■ r.Ttnfrfjw
To be SOLD or RENTED,
A LARGE 3 Story Brick House, .on the
South fide of Filbert flrect, between
Eighth and lately occupied as the Sur
veyor GeHerai's Office.
1 he Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet deep,
the lot r 10 feet deep, with the privilege of a nine
feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
to turn iu.. The House is not flaflered, and
may he turned either into one, or two dwelling
Houl'es. It is fu'table for a large Manufactory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
pofleffion will begiten.
Apply to No. hi, CheQiut-Street.
Aug. 11. cod 4 t.
Muftcal lnjlrument Manufactory,
No. 167, Jrsh-Street.
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable graxd,
fid-'-board, pier table and ftjuare piai.r. tor e
mak; r frona London, refund thanks to his friends
and the public, for their liberal encoutagement,
and hopes that by his afliduity and to t v
cry brai;ch of his business, ton erit a certinuanc-e
of their favors. Piano fcrtes made on tl.t neweit
and most approved plins, with pedals, patent,
fwcll, nr.d French harp flop, which hefiytteis
himfelf will ue found cn trial by unprejudired
judges, to be equal if not fuperi< r to any import
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inl.iu
moEt purchased of bim, if not approvedof in,
twelve months, he w ill exchange.
N. B. All kinds of M»fictiJ mftruments made,
uned, and repifliec with the greatest accuracy,
dispatch, and on the nioff realonabJe term-, tut
readyrroncy oniy.
Second hind Piano Fortes taken in exchange,
M ay i .
Forty Dollars Re ward.
II AN away from the fublcriber 011 the fee
XV ond day of this infi. July, * Mulatto >l an »
named Wiil Bevvter, about forty yesrrof age,
five feet, seven or ioch. s ' high,, ralhe-r
chunky made ; liad 'ou when he went away, a
drab colored clpth toat, flripeci purplt trowfers.
and jacket. It is pi tiable he his
('loathes, as he took a number with linn.'" lh e
fai l fei'ow formerfy bc'l<.riged to Mr. Charles
Blake of this plafc ; and it is he ha*
made toVaids Jones's Ntvk, in the DeUwar?
State.—Ar.y person jppryliending the tiid fel
low, and feoiring 'him so that J can get hirn.a
jtain, fiiall receive the above re« »r ; if taken
dwtof the county, and "W'cnty Dollars if in
the coun'y, at:d all reasonable charges if bro't
home.
JESSE REED,
Qiieen Ana's County, Maryland.
J u! y 3- ' w -3t