©ajettt of tljc States, *»» Philadelphia j&uiiy -Adptrtisen
Numbsa 1493.]
For Sale,
The fine *ml remarkably faft
Virginia and Philadelphia
tons. For terms apply to
Rofs tst Simfon.
June tt. dtf
For St. Thomas,
Ann and Mary,
1 Captain Buns ;
- - ' - WILL fail in ten days. For
freizht or passage apply to
F, COPPINGER.
No. 221, South Frontflreet.
June 9. ' * dipt
For Sale,
tie cargo of the brig Enterprise, Captain ,
I.ongdan fror\ Bourdeaux, now landing at
Morton's wharf,
CON SITING or
524 hhds. of Claret 2 •
al; cases of ditto -a
100 c.'fcs of Sweet Oil ■?
no pipe. London proof 7BRA N DY . J 2
19 pipes of Holland proof ) J m
Apply to
Wharton ts 3 Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
£***■ Said Brig,
WlLLtake aFUFIGHT for
-*\ the Weft-Indies or Eurjope, fails
fall, burthen about fifteen hun
-sr-»SiXiiSs&«Sclred barrels, is in complete or
der, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply as above.
May 24 ■ . . '. $
For Sale or Charter,
THE SHIP
ptgeZF WARREN,
Benjamin Church, Master,
about 280 toRS burthen. En
quire of
feffe & Robert Wain-
May 76 §
«i~—- For Freight or Charter,
mm, Brig Fame,
S V:," j FRANCIS KNOX, Mailer:
A strong, excellent vessel, has been just sheathed and
ready to receive a cargo. She will carry 2,000 bar
rels, has g&od accommodations so passengers.
Apply to
Capt. Knox, or to
Kearny Wharton.
June 6. 6p
HA Y .
A Quantity of excellent Old and New Hay to
be had at Peel Hall Farm on the Wiflahickon
Road, about a miles from the City.
Alio, A QUANTITY OF BUILDING STONE.
June 8 s6t
FASHION AND CHEAPNESS.
INTELLIGENCE TO THE LADIES.
TCSV received from London, two trunks of ele
gant BRUNSWICK KID Ladies' Shoes, of the
moll falhionable patterns and (hapc now worn in
that city, and will be fold off immediately in small
quantities, atfirftctft, forcafh, at tyrs. ENEFER's,
No. 105 Walnut flieet, between Third and Fourth
ttrcets.
• # * The above was purchafcd of Mr. Fox, in
Piccadilly, who manutaflures for most of the nobi
lity, and will be warrant ed good.
June 13 f3t _
John Miller, jun. & Co
Have received per the India, AJhmead, from
Calcutta,
ji well off or ted small Invoice jf
Gurrahs
: Baftas
Coffees
Calicoes
Bengal Stripe*
Laid in remarkably low, which they will fell for
calh or ihort credit 011 very advantageous terms.
June 5. dawfrl/jth
George Dobfon,
No. 25 South Third-Street,
HAS imported per Ihips William Penn, Starr,
and Diana, from London,
5-4 Super London Chints, elegant patterns,
Ginghams, Muflinetts and Bimity's.
Faflionable Waiftc»ati<ig, newest patterns.
Ribbands well afiorted, in small trunks.
4-4 5-4 and 6-4 India and Britilh Book-mus
lins.
Fancy Cloathsand Caflamiers.l
Thi whole to be disposed of cheap for Ca(h
or approved Notes of a Ihorr date.
June I 4» *97-
PUBLIC NOTICE
IS hereby given te those persons, holding notes
of the fubfcrib#r, that he will renew the
fame, payable in fix years, with legal interest
fr».n the date hereof ; and that notes will be
given as aliove to all, who may have open ac
counts legally authenticated.
TIMOTHY MOUNTFORD.
No. 194, S. Second Street.
Philadelphia, June 10, 1797.
Millinery Room,
No. 136 Marketjlreet.
MISS CHXTSTAL
'T'AKES an early opportunity of acquainting
l her Friends (hat Ihe has received by the
WiLLUM Pemn, a variety of NE\V M7L
LINERY, &c. which (he hopes to be able to
fbew them in a few dayi. •
May \i
Juit Received,
l : rom Batavia (via Providence)
170 Sacksof Java Coffee of firft quality
300 half facki do. do.
a few Boxtsof Spices, con&ling of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace %
F rue by
WIl ITNC-S & FR ANCIS.
Pcntwftreet.
M»y 3» t
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, JUNE 21, 179^.
A Quantity of Brand v,
Gin, of 4th prcof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4 th proof, in Hhds f
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Class, in boxes, of different li/cs
Hazler.uts, in forks
Whiting
Copperas ( ■ ,1 ,
White Lead T ,n hl,d '
& Spanilh Brown J
For Sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
I-annary 4
Rofs & Simfon,
Have fur Sole,
# A QUANTtTY OF PRIME
St.- Domingo Cottoii,
Superior Old Lisbon Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market
Teneriffe Wine,
In Madeira Calks
A few Quarter Cherts btft
Fresh Hyson and ) „ r , e
Hyson Skin 5 1 tAS
Muscovado Sugars in Hoglheads, and
Coffee in Tierces
March 7. || tf
~C. E. Whitlock,
DENTIST,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of ThiladeJphiaand its vicinity, that he
conanues to perform all operations on the Teeth ; sup
plies the deficiencies of nature with artificial or real
teeth, in ail the various modes of fixing—Cleans,
files, regulates, extrafh, and fills decayed teeth wiih
gold or lead, &c. &c. He waits upon Ladies and
Gentlemen at their houses, and will be happy to re
ceive their commands by note, at Mrs. Finch's, No.
68 north Eighth street, or at his house. next to the
Black Horse Tavern, on the Frankford road.
Dollars.
Scaling and cleaning
Artificial teeth, with enamel, per tooth, 5
Do. in gold sockets or screws 7
Natural ecth with ligatures 7
Do. on gold or ivory locket*, or gold screws 10
Filing and cutfing away decay—each decay x
Filling with gold 2
Do. with lead 1
Eotra&ing (to the families who employ him
as demist) t
Do. where not employed *
1 ooth powder of his own preparing 1
Rrufhes, best London manufacture 25 cents.
Regu'ating, Sec. according to the operation.
%* C Whitlock will fell the time of a Negro
Man he is honest and sober, and has about 5 years
and a half to serve. Enquire as above.
J une '5
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Cbefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS Heatly aflorted, very low on
Ihort credit.
March 6. §
To be Sold,
A large and convenient
Three Story Brick House ;
SITU ATE at the north-east corner of Arch and
Fourth-streets. It contains eighteen rooms—
and is in every refped well finiihed. For particu
lars enquire of
M. Keppele,
No. 138, Chefnut-ftreet.
31. §
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second street,
fPrice 31 CentsJ
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May 15 (J
"WALKER 6f KENNEDY,
No. 73, South Front Street,
Have for Sale,
Virginia Tobacco, of tht|Richcnond inspec
tion
350 bbls. Virginia' Flour andjMiddlings
500 bufliels Wheat
5 calks Ginfang.
ALSO,
Three cases Roucns Linens, entitled to the
drawback
ioo pieces Bandannoes, and'
100 cadies India Sewing Silk.
June 15. thsw^t
Grattan and Comp.
"O Efpe&fully inform their friends, that they have
lV imported from London per the ship Star, a
larje assortment of
PERFUMER r,
Which is now opened for falc at their House, N®.
191 Market-street.
•Also, a new alToituient of ready-made gentle
men's linen, fliirts from 2 dollars each to 8 dollars,
&c. &c.
Ladies and gentlemen are accommodated with
board and lodging at ten Dollars each.
Tnofe Gentlemen who have their own private
lodgings, may be accommodated with dinner only,
by the week or month.
June 5 6t
To be fold,
The time of a stout hearty young NEGRO MAN,
who has upwards of four years to serve. Enquire
at No. 25, Dock-street.
June 13. dlvr
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the City—
•OF FARIOUS SIZES,
from 8 by 6 to 19 by 14,
By the single Box or Quantity, may be had v at the
S ore of the Subscribers, corner of Arch and Front
fireet.
fames C. & Samuel W. Fijher.
PHiWrlfhia, J"neq, 1797
t or sale,
A fair of •very handfamc
Bay Horses,
Near fixtcen hands high, well broke, and per
fc&ly gentle. Enquire at Mr. Kelfon't ilablis,
Church-a!!ey.
Atftii for Sale,
A Charict and plated Harness.
J--ne ij. 4top
By John Fen no, N° - 119 Chef nut Street.
PIWO FORTE.
LONGMAN & BRODERIP's
ROYAL patent Piano Forte with a green
board, an excellent toned inftrtynent. For
sale at Mr. Saltars, f{o. 56, S. Fourth Street.
June ;p. diw.
A iNew Work.
PROPOSALS
For printing and publishing, by # fubferiptioo, The
History of Pennsylvania,
IN North-America, from the original institution and
(ertlement of that province, under the full propri
etor and governor, Wii.liam Finn, in 1681, 'fill
after the year 1743; with
AN INTRODUCTION.
Refpefting the w. PENN,
Prior to ihegrant of that Piovince, and the relf- 1
gious Society of the people called Quakers; with the
FIRST RISE of the NEIGH BORING COLONIES,
mere particularly of WES T-NEW-JERSEY, and the
Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDES <*» DEL A
WARE.
To which is added,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE.
And of the general (late, in which it flourifhed,
principally between the'years and 1770. The
whole including a variety of things, ufeful and W--
terefting to be known, refpefting that country in early
time, &c. With an appendix.
Written principally between the years 1776' and 1780,
By Robert Proud.
*• Pukhrum eji bthtjacere reipublicut, etiam bencdiccre
baud abjurdum cjl t ycl pace vel bcl(o clarunt fieri licet'*
J-al. Catalin.
"SeJcum pierique arbitrentvr res bellicas majores efe
quam urbanasy minuendaeti hoc opinio."
Cic. Off.
(Entered according to fazv>J
44 WILLIAM PENN, the great legislator of the
Quakers, (in Pennfylvmia) had the success of a con
queror, in establishing and defending his colony, a
mong favagetribes, without ever drawing the sword ;
the goodness of the most benevolent rujers, in trea
ting his lubjctts as his own children ; and the tender
nels of an univerlal father, who opened fcis arms to
all mankind without diftin£lion feft or party. In
his Republic it was not his religious creed, but per
(onal merit, that entitled every member of society to
the protc&ioa and emolument of the State**'
EJfayon Toleration, by Arthur O'Letry.
CONDITIONS.
I. This work will be printed in two o&avo vol
umes, neatly bound and lettered, both in flieep and
calf, for the choice of the fubferibers; on paper (imi
lartethatof the conditions, as pubhjhcdin theSubJcrip
tion papers.
11. Thehead of William Penn, handsomely en
graved, will be prefixed to the firft, and a map or
(ketch of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the
second volume.
IU # The pricie to fubferibers will be four dollars
and an half in sheep, and five dollars in calf; —one
dollar to be paid at the time of fubfciibing, two dol
lars on the delivery of the firft, volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery of the second.
IV. When one thousand copies are fubferibed
for, the work will be out to press and finilhed with
all convenient expedition.
Subscriptions will be received by Zacba/iah Poul
fon, juo. Priuter, No. 80, Chrf»iut-ftrcet;"and at the
Philadelphia Library in Fifth-ftreet ; by Isaac Col*
' ,n *, Printer, and Joseph James, Merchant, New-
Yo r k ; by John P..Pleafantsand George W. Field,
Merchants. Baltimore; and by other persons both
in town and country*
February 18. tu&f
Advertifem«pt.
PURSUANT ta an Order from the Orphans * Court,
•will abfolutcly be fold at PUBLIC SALE, at
Cranberry, on IVtdnefday, tbe tsd day of Augufl next, at
II • clock y A My all that •valuable RE AL EST AT By
late belonging to the Rent. Gilbert T. Sncvuden, decs-fed,
lying in and near Cranberry, if the county ef hl 'iddlfftx,
torvnfhip of South Brunfivici, Bate ef Nrtv fcrfey, up
en \the lower flflge- road leading from Philadelphia to Ncib
York. A very elegant framehoufe in a beautiful and
healthy fituation y pair, ted •white, •with Venetian -window
shutters, thirty feet front and thirty eight feet deep, tivo
rooms with a bandfoine hall or entry on the firfl floor,
three rooms on the second floor and two well-finifhed gar
rets. In the rear of the house is an excellent tivo-Jiory
building 37 feet by 19, confiding 'of a dining-room fr
work people, spacious pantries and a l* r gf kitchen, with
every convenience, and over these are three chambers for
servants. To tbe right is an additional building 18 fiet
front by 19 feet deep, confining of a chamber below and a
I brary above—wider the whole are very fine cellars paved
with brick and conveniently partitiored. The house is en
tirely nexv, built in a modern fyle, and cs7npletely and e
legantly finifhed. Every room is hung with bells tbaf
lead both to the servants" apartments: there
is a pump of good water in the yard; and a flone and
brick pavement round ihe whole house, which is enclos
ed with a handsome railing, with three gates in front.
The farm conftfls of one hundred and sixty seven acres
with a proportion of woodland and meadow, under excel
lent fence ; a garden with pale fence ; a large barn, /ta
bles., carriage-house, cow-hottfesy life, all new, and built
in the befl manner : with two Orchards, one of 60 full
grown trees, tbe ethet is young and thriving, corfijling of
200 befl grafted fruit trees.
Nearly adjoining said farm is a lot of Woodland,
of the befl quality, containing 37 acres. Also a \ra3 of
land within seven miles of Cranberry, and I of the Cross
Koads, containing one hundred and fifty acres, three-fourths
meadow and tbe rell excellent timber.
This Traft will tie fold in lots on Thursday, tbe
day of Augufl following, at II o % elbek, A AI, on tbe
premfes if the weather permits, if not at the hoyfe of
Air. Wither ill, Cross Roads.
For further particulars enquire of Nathaniel Hunt, esq.
Cranberry, of M\r. faac Snowden,jun. No. 141 South
Second Street, Philadelphia, or of JMr" Goat les Snowdcn
Tontine Coffee- ffcifr, New York, or of thefubferibers.
ISA ACS NO IVDEN,Princeton 7 . , . #
JACOB FISHER, j
N. B. Pbe sale of the above property was advertized
for the infl. but tbe Adminifrators were not able to
get the two separate Trafts laid out into Lots, and other
matters arranged, on account of the indifpopticn of one #/
them, it was therefore churned to the days above mention
ed. §6tmwftf 'June 19*
Great Philoiophical & Mechanical
Experiments,
To be executed on every Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday,at eight o'clock in the Evening, at Mr.
M'Dougalls Dancing Room in fourth street, be
tween Chefnur and VV&lnut ifreets
The force of Hercules is surpassed by artificial
Men.
The perfedion of natuial philolophy by an arti
ficial I.ady.
This adroit and graceful Lady, will commence
her philofcphic experiments by firing the cannon of
Volta.
She will melt metal by her fiery br. uh rf'cr
wards dirtA the elctfric fire on a small House, and
destroy it.
She will blow out of her mtuth flafbes of fire
flaming stars, and finally con<lud
the cxperira-nt by furprifwg feats, by a fnigi<
pistol (hot, she will kill a bird prrchfg in front 01
the xheatre.
Jun« 19. eod'jt.
Samuel & Miers Fisher*
No. 27, t)ock-ftreet,
Have jujl received per Abigail, Babcocl, from
Belfast,
IRISH Canjbricks, in boxes of 40 pieces
and 80 patches, each sorted up to cjf
sterling per yard.
They have also received
7-8 & 4-4 Irish Linens well assorted
Dowlas and Sheetings,
which will be fold for ready money, or Ihort
credit, on moderate; terms ; together with
a general assortment of Spring Goods as
usual.—Also,
Hunter's Pipes in boxes
An assortment of Queens' Ware in crates
An assortment of Glass Ware in calks and
crates
T.Crowley, Milftn'gton, Steel
Cargo & London particular Teneriffe Wines
Lisbon Wine of excellent quality
Superior Sherry Wines
Patent Sheathing paper.
A few small bales line Cloths neatly assort
ed, and two bales assorted Flannels, to be,
fold per package.
June 9. 3taw 6w
r or Sale,
At the Office of the Gazette of the United
States, No. 119, Chefnut-ftreet,
The lafi Report of the late Secretary
of the Treasury ; being a brief history of the
state of financial i-oncerns of the Unittd States.
The Proceedings of the Executive
of the United States refpeiling the wtftern in
furreiSlion : Containing many facts and cir
cumllances no where else to be found. 50
cents.
The Letter of Mr. Pickering to
ourminilterin France. 37i-icents.
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States for the year
179J-
A few copies of the volume for 1794 may be
had to complete setts.
DTvernois' account of the Revo
lution in Geneva. 12 1-2 cents.
This Day is Published,
Aud fold by H.'isf I. Kammerer, jun. No.
24, North Third-Jlreet, alfo,'by Mr. Hen-
Rr SiwirzEß, No. 85, Race-Jlreet,
(Price half a Dollar neatly bound)
The Man of real Sensibility ;
Or, The HISTORY OF SIR G. ELLISON. J
Founded <m Fad.
fIT The elegant Edition of the Elements of Uloral- j
ity, im two vols* illustrated with twenty copper
plates, may also be had as above, price, fall bound. \
and gilt, two dollars and fifty cents.
H&I. K ,junrs. have on hand a quantity of No. l
and 2 Writing Paper.
Valuable Public Document.
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale
At the Office of the Editor ofthe Gazette of the
United States, (
No. itg Chefnut-Screet, ,
[PRICE ONE HOLLAR AND FIFTV CENTS] (
A FEW COPIty OF THE ,
Receipts and Expenditures ;
OF THE UNITED STATES,
For the Year 1795, — (
Being the Latest Period to which an account j
can be made up.
February aa. <
Maurice Moynihan,
No. 81, North Second jlreet,
A few doors above Arch-street, (
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has (
for wholefaleor retail, on the lowest term 3, a
general assortment of Queen's Ware t gilt and cut i
tumblers, plain arid flowered quart, pint, half pint <
gill and half gill do. exaft measures, decantors and i
wine glaffcs ; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint i
bowls, and chi> a in sets and separate ; pocket t
bottles: Schuyikill and Jersey country quaci and 1
half gallon bottles; Dry Goods, &c. &c.
N. B. Crates put up with care at the fliortell no- '
ticc*
May ii. dtf J
The Subscriber, '
Determined to retire from btiftnefs, invites all' ,
who have any no;e, bill, bond or acceptance ,
of his, now due, to call for payment ; and those I
wifh to antic;pate may receive the money
at a reasonable difcouiit. ■
JAMES SWAN.
May ii. diw. '
DorchefUr, near 16th May 1797.
Fvathaniel Lewis & Son, •
Have for sale at their fore, No. 70, adjoining
George Latimer & Son, Pine-freet IVharf,
A Quantity ot
Madeira Wines
In pipe- and half pipes
Madeira Walnuts and Citron, lately imported
in the schooner Sincerity, Capt. Copia
Also,
25 Puncheons, fecon J and third proof, /Pefl.-
India Rum, and a few Pipes of Brandy
They have conflantly on hand and for sale,
French Burr and Country Mill Stones of various
sizes, and a general ailoitment of Boultiug Cloths of
the best quality, both American and Foreign ma
nufaihwe. The former having proved, from fe- j
1 vera] years experience of a number of millers in
[ different parts of the United States at icaft equal,
1 and in many iaftance3 superior to the European
I we hope the manufacturer, Robert Daw
son, will meet with liberal encouragement in this
1 important and ufeful undertaking. He has obtain- '
|ed a patent and exclufivtf right of making and ,
vending Boulting Cloths ou his improved plan for a
j number ©f years, and they are iold only by him
j felf in Lancaftcr, state of Pennsylvania, aad by
1 the fubferibers in Philadelphia.
June 14 d
Received by the Indcfian,
From Madras,
A SMALL invoice ccrfifting *f the following
Coait Goods, viz.
B'ue Cloths
Long Cloths, 14 punjums
Do. do. si ie
Madrift Handkerchiefs, aud
Book MuHins
WILT ING FRANCIS.
March 37. jaw
f he C ommiflloners
carr) nig info efl._vfl C»:th article Of tl:r
- treaty of amity, commerce
citf'ert between and the United
states of Ahiectca, on the isthjay of NcwemTier,
179+,
" purl'uaoi aad agreeably to the Jo here •
by give iiotiue, t;,at they are ready to proceed ta
bufinvfs accordingly ; and they uelire tnat ali claim-;
under the said anicle (which fofar.asthe fonie.de
fcri! es the cases thereby previcied for, is hftffiuntJr
annexed) may be lodged wish their Secretary with
out delay.
They iurther deTjrethat all such claims may ret
only ft ate ia what manner the cafes come
WJthin the deteription of the said article, but al*c
specially let forth .he nature of the evidence by
which the claimantsrefpe&iVcly undertake tofab*
Uantiate the fame
Extras from the said article,
" Whereas it is alledged by divers British mer
" chants, and others his majeft\*s fubje&s, that
" debts to a confid rabid amount, which were bona
" fide contra&ed, before the peace, still remain
;t owing to them by citizens or inhabitants of tli£
" Ignited States ; and that by the operation of va
" rious lawful impediments, since the peade, not
" oi\ly the fuU recovery of the said debts has been
" deiayed, but alio the value and security thereof
» (t have been in several infrances i npaircd and IciT
" ened, so that by the ordinary rourfe of judicial
u proceedings, the British creditors cannot now
" obtain actually have an 4 receive full and
14 adequate compensation for the lotos and dama
" ges which triey have thereby fuf ained: It is a-
Ct greed that 111 al! such cases wfyere full conipenfa
<c tion for such lofles and damages cannot for what
" ever reason be a<ftu lly obtained, had andrecei
u ved by the said creditors in the ordinary couril;
(i of justice, the United States will make full and
" complete compensation for tWf lame to the fai4
" creditors : but it is diitlndlly understood, that
" this provision is to extsnd to such lodes dnly a»
" have been occalioned by the lawful impediments
u aforefaid, and is not to extend to lodes occasion
" ed by such insolvency of the debtors or other
" causes, as would equally have operated to prc
" duce such loss, if the laid impediments had not
" existed ; nor to furh lofTes or damages rs have
M been occalioned by the manileft delay, ornegli
'• t,encc, or wilful omiflion of the claimant.*'
By order of the Boards
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secretary.
Philadelphia, Commissioners* Office,
No. 3 south Sixth-street, May 29,
1797. J 6—§ini
SUBSCRIBER having been appointed bV
the Envoy Extraordinary and Miniiter Pltui"
potentiary of his Britannic Majcfly, General sgeut
for aflifting British creditors, and such particular a
gents as they may specially authorize, in prosecuting
theyr claims before the cammiflioners for carrying in
to effeft the sixth article ot the Treaty of Amity, Com
merce and Navigation between his Britannic /• ajefty and
the United States of America, hereby gives notice that *
he has opened his office at his feoufe the south east
corner of Chefnut and fifth streets, Philadelphia, •
where he is ready to receive all claims or initiuftioos
for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof*
for the purpose of bringing forward the fame agree
ably so the rules and orders which the board may
think proper to prescribe.
And as it will be for the interest of all coneerntfd,
that the several claims be so Hated, and fupport
td, as to prevent the delay which would arise from
the neceflity of obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials,from persons residing at a distance,
the general agent thinks it his duty to add, (tor the
dire&ion chiefly of tbofc, who, not having employ -
ed particular agents, may leave the prosecution of
their claims to his charge and management) that ali
such claims ought in particular to fct forth—
lft. The proper defcrip.ion and fitnation of the
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, refpe£t
ivelw
2d. The date or nature of the original contract or
debt.
3d. When, in what manner, and to whatextent,
the creditor 01 claimant w»s prevented or impeded,
'by the provision, operation or defett of law, the
decisions and pra&ice of courts, or reilraint of exe
cution, frc-m recovering payment of the debt in .
quell ion.
4th- The loss ?nd damage, incurred dr foflained,
in confcquence of such impediments, whether the
fame may have arisen from the infolveney, change of
fituatton, or dead*.of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from laple of time, or other causes impairing
the value ar:d security of the debt, which would not
have so operated ff such impediments had notexifled*
And sth The par/tcular grounds ; end reasons on
which the claimant main ams, in the terms of the
treaty, that " by the ordinary course ps judicial pro
logs, the creditor cannot now obtain and a&ually
have and receive full and adequate compenfption" f©r
the lofles and damages lofudaiued.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to fug
gefl that the f verai claims ought to be accompanied
and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly atiefted, both as to the exrftence
of the debts claimed, and such other circumfbncea
as msy be within their own knowledge relpe£lively.
And wherever the claimants in dating the nature of
their evidence (which must in evejyinftance be the .
belt ol which ihe cafe is capable) have occasion to
refer to the tdlimonv of witnesses, it will be proper
to appnfe the general agent of the names and places
of it-Adence of (uch witncfletand the fa£Uto be eftS
blidicd by their testimony.
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June Bih, 1797. 1 dim
SANSOM,
HAS removed hi 3 Counting house to No. 96
Arch Street.
He lias remaining on hand of the Cargo of th«
Ship Pigou,
from Canton,
A few 6ales long Nankeens
ditto (hort ditto
A few Chests Imperial Tea
iitto Young Hyson ditto
Which will he fold Cheap on a liberal Credit,
in order to elofe the (ales.
June 19 d
The Shareholders
OF the Pcunfylvcn'ia Population Company y
arc requested to meet at the Company'*
Office, No. 53, North Fourth Street, on
Thursday the 29th instant.
By order of the Board.
Solomon Marache, Sec'ry.
June 19. dt29th.
Now Landing,
Jit Pratt's vihnrf,
FROM on boird the fiiip Tkuraa» Chilkley,
C lpt. Hafer, from Bourdeaux,
CLARET in calls
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
Red Skins in boxei
For Sale by
Rundle of Lttch.
May IS i
|TGLUME XI.Foreign ln> diligence.
LONDOn", April 27.
HOUSE Of COMMONS.
wtiNespAV. APRiL z6.
BL'DtSET. : '
The Order «f the Day was then reid, the
. Hosfe re'oived itfolf into a Cpfiunitte* oi \V-yi
an i Mrtu, >
Mr. Sylvijlcr Dsurlat. in 'h- Ch-ii'.
T Hr Rrjinrt of the Seleit Conimioee of Fin-ano*
twin,f nrrviotifly feferretl to ciir faiet Committee.
I'ht Cl-ttneKtr of (/;.■ t.xcbcju.-r. ".ta the great
Rftjl frteuSvc piofecßtijn of tf.s business which it
is ens this At-'f to submit to tkii
of cite Coiuliutow, it is uttjtolTibfe'fot me pot to
feci the imporunce of the fcuifl.ewwhichotffexi
peoces haVeoeciftfn«J,'»ntl still .',s is it impoiTible
for Jr.e tot to feel coifi'ieriMe »cgret, and greut
{xrfofll {!ifaf>iintn«Ot m bejnj cjaipelled, how
tv- t» p'ropofoarr addition to the am
ple and largj provision already nude tc-wards de
fivyin'j tin rxp«noe» of this country i*l a wid; and
eatHmKou* war, and add to tile prv-lent burthens
whtfh are borne with unexampled patience, and to
which nothing btit the moll rigorous ueceility could
force me to iinpolcfrefh burthens, lam confcioda
the sensations us every (Jeatlemau in tire Commit
tee will behurt on aui I rail wlut
jcvtr may be their feolings upon this fubjtit, thoy
- Mill jiw mi credit my sensations ar; not lehalive.
-But it is not my duty to dw'eli on those fer.f ions—
Much as I regret the caufesof the war, and the ci
bmitits with which it ha 3 bcei attended ; much
I regret the manner in which the hope of a spee
dy termtua*ion hai beeliobftruwfed, and additional
expences thereby incurred; much as I rrgret in
ereafmg expences, where exuonces have been so
much,. lr.d almost irrfufferably increased ; and
whatever iriay be my own perional mortification
artd regret in. being obliged to tome forward at
fa si a' diflrefsfijl period with n?w burthens; I feel
it, iNHiviiitiianding, to ,be my firll great duty to
eoiiie forward, as I hope and tmft tile House and
tountry will do viith me, with a firm and manly
fjiirit, to convince the enemy that however great
' rr ;y be our prefl'ure, however embarralfed our cir
rjni!h.ncti, we are determined to contend with
theni as long as we are able, rather than submit to
haughty and difhonouraMe terms. Thoufrh ws
may not lie fuccefsful cnought to accomplish the
mean* by which we can ternrinate the fatal poiiteft
in which we are engaged, conliftently with the ho
nour ferurity, andp.rmanent and effsntiai intereiis
of the nation, Itr us yet convince our enemies, that
cur spLit docs not def'ert us in our trials, but that,
infpite »f every difficulty, we will fl.iltl»ejufV both
to ourselves and to our country. In this sentiment
I trufi to meet the sense of the House and the peo
ple ar Urge, whose patriotism, justice, and mag
nanimity, as they never have failed in the mofl ar
durut conflicts, wit] not, I trutt, fail now; but
nianifcll on the contrary, that whatever may be
the event, they have but one duty to pursue, the
fafcty honour and happiness of the kingdom.
Without heGta'tion, though certainly not. without
Irvxiefy,and regret, 1 shall now proceed to submit
to the Committee what I have to propose. Jn do
i'vj thi% it if with pleaiure I declare., that I fliall
cot only derive great advantage, but that my la
lour is materially diroinifhed also by the able
u:id impartial (latements of the firll Report of the
. Selecl Committee of Finance, which has been
printed and this day laid before you. However,
is pa; ti.uhr parts, I may be jufiified in differing
from these statements, however favourable those
ftotennnts may be to the general wilfces of the
HoCfe and of the Country (and I am ready to con
fefsthey are more favourable than what 1 have to
propose,) I stall juide myfrlf by their rfirecuon,
and render that .Report the bafia of the plan of my
propnfal. I shall follow the usual mode of prt
ceeding apon fubjeds of this nature, and firft take
a view of the tranfa&iocs which have caused the el
fences which we are how .called on to provide,
and state what f»ms remain to he (rovided for ; I
fbafl tlrentsmpare these ptovifional'demands with
whathavc been already provided for in the cotirfe
fcf tha-prefent year, and submit the plans which I
propose for a further provision, and in this process
I lhall he as (hurt and explicit, as I can. For this
purpose, therefore, and according to the' tifual
prailice, 1 shall firft call the attention of the House
to the whole amount As services lor the preient
year, with the amount of th? fumj already voted
for defraying them, and tke amount of the sums
remaining to be voted ; after that I shall detail the
Ways and Means by which these services have al
ready been defrayed, and by which the remainder
may be defrayed; and finally I shall if at" the fpe
tific meafurcs which I mean to ground upon those
ftaKmects towards the provision for the accumu
lated interest and charges. For the fake of being
clear Arid intet'igible, I shall proceed article by ar
tide, under various heads; and, to puVue the euf
tornary mode, I if.ail of fourfe begin with the
Navy.
The Committee will recollet, that for the
Naval service of the current year, there has
already been voted the sum of 7,66i,0001.
in addition to which the Committee of Sup
ply has voted 5,c00,0001. more. Gentle
men will please to recoiled, that although I
estimated expences of the Naval De
partment at 7,661 .ocol. I then stated my
intention to propose the provision of a fur
ther sum of 2,500,0001. in order to remedy
an inconvenience which heretofore had ari
sen, and thereby have 10,161,9001. in cash
towards defraying any excess of Navy debt.
Such, however, have been the extraordinary
exertions and expences of the war, that
there yet remaftied an unfunded debt of the
Navy unprovided for, to the amount of 4
millions. In the statements of the Seleft
Committee a compartfon has been given be
tween this outstanding Navy debt and the
outstanding Navy debt in 1783, and the
Committee has made ail allowance for three
million, tn the Select Committee it ap
pears by the best, estimates, that as far as
they can be ascertained, the expences for the
Navy service would amount to 12,900,0001.
which is short of what I have stated thera
to fee, bat exceeding what I formerly confi
dertd them. By way of reducing this
amount, though I ought to state that a sum
of Boo,oooJ. went in aid of the Navy fervi--
ces of 1796, and consequently left the pro
vision for the services of 1797 deficient in
that sum, foi"! however, careful we may be,
a part of the expences will be carried on in
Navy bills, tbo' certainly to less extent than
formerly. In the provision of 12,000,000,
four (hillings per month would be carried to
the ordinary expences of the Navy, where
by about 110,000k would be taken away
from the unfunded debt. As I suppose
there will then be a million, or a million and
1' half of Nav}- debt afloat. Such was my
former statement, and compared with the
ftatesnent of the Committee, there is this
difference, that it fuppofe# i,st>o/3cof. of
floating Navy debt, inflead of ;»,ooo,aocl.
as lh« Seleft Committee of Finance has
calculated. Ido not know whether I have
expressed myfelf clearly »pon this poir.t, but
if. not, I /hall be hippy ta give ir.y geaiic
man a further explanation.
- r „ Army.
'l iic ne.it hnJ of i<j» vice u the Army,
uppn which there has been alrsadv voted
the sum of 10,913,0001, The-aecounts for
f'reign corps arc no*, yet made out, but
they soon will be, and I have reason to hope
their expences will ba less than were caku
c lated in my original statement, and less than
, they appeared to the Seleft Committee. I
have reason to think this diminution will
amount to one Jialf ; and that tha sum of
370,0001. will be fuffieient ; 6,000,0001.
lt was the total amount for the army
it eftaWifliment, independent of the extraordi
n naricj, whicji is left; by 297,000!. than the
0 eftijnatw for the ensuing year by the Seledt
Committee. In 1796 there were.fame ex
it traoidmary expeuces of the army incurred,
_ which at present remain unprovided for, to
to the.amount of 3,287,0001. and in the in
- terval of the Bth December and the ift of
ll January, there was another out-standing <ie
• mancT made evident of ioo,oool. which, in
J consequence of not being paid, is to be ad
ded to the other, and makes a sum of—
- 3,387,0001. out-standing army debt to be
provided for. It appears by the report of '
\ the Scleft Committee, moreover, that Trea
sury bills paid at the bank, and warrants for
army service due and unpaid, a further sum
■' of 2,08i,0001. remains to be provided for,
j inasmuch as Treasury bills paid at the bank
_ previous to the jth of January 1797, and
, those which were due on the Bth of Janua
-1 ry,but not included, amounted to 1,660,000
1 to which were to be added 428,0001. for ar- I
j_ my warrants. So that the sum total would
, be as before stated 2,088,0001. The efti
-1 mated sum to be incurred by the army ex
r traordinarics for 1797, according to the re
port of the Secret Committee, and for the
amount of which it is my intention to pro
vide is 4,000,0001. It was not proposed
before Chriftmaa to raise any sum of money ■
for this head of service, but so far as any i
calculat ion to thelateft possible period could ■
be made, the calculation nearly tallied with \
that sum. It is here to be observed, that
the extraordinaries of the army are now, for J
the iirft time, brought forward by way of
estimate, at least they were never done so ful- "
ly till the present war, but they were paid
out of the money granted for other fervi- :
ces, leaving the provision for those services" ■
e deficient to another year. In addition to !
e this, there has been advanced to the Empe- J
ror, by way of loan, and which will be-due <
to the public i,200,0001. and a sum of,
900,0001. advanced to the merchants of ;
Grenada and Saint Vincents, which will al- 1
so be returned. There are further advances,
to the Emperor to be set ag'ainit the expence
of extraordinaries to a very large amount,
fr.r which it will not be neceflary to provide
a present fund, though I set them down, as
so much credit against so much debt. The
Treafui'y bills and Army warrants at home,
did not go to the extent of 2,088,0001. but
there were bills from remote parts, notwith
standing the precautions I had taken to cal
culate and curtail the expences abrqad as
much as pofiible, which exceeded what was
formerly thought upon estimate to bi their
I utmost amount. This might in part be
t owing to the unforefeen and incalculable
: operations of the war; however, I did not
think it consistent to leave them to reft on )
distant means of payment, and I chose ac-
I cordingly to propose for their provision.
This comprises all under the head of the
army. . ■
Ordnance. ,
' I now come to th# ordnance departments,
for which there has been already voted the
sum of and to which I do not
mean to propose any addition. I mult ob
serve, however, that since the estimates were '
' made, a demand of 300,0001. to pay deben- :
tures for stores supplied and services per- !
formed, has since come in for part of the j
ordnance expences in the fame manner as :
the treasury bills of i,600,0001. of which .
I did npt then know. To this deficiency
may be added another in the barrack de- !
partment, in which an outstanding debt re- ;
■ mains, not merely for the building of bar- >
■ racks, but for the expences of provision and '
accomodation, in which the soldiers would
have been furniihed to the amount of the ■
fame charge upon the public if they had
been garrisoned in barricks,. but had been i
quartered elsewhere. I mention this to re
• move any prejudice which might perhaps '
have otherwise been indulged, and (hall con- j
elude this article by.recortmending the pro- •
vision advised by the Seleft Committee of,
717,0c01. which in the present view of this \
fubjedt will defray the whole demands. I
have now proceeded through the Navy, Ar- <
my, and Ordnance, in which Ido not re- 1
■ colled to have omitted any extraordinary
items, exe*pt that I have not mentioned a
fpecific additional sum, which I mean to
propose for. the further relief of his Impe- •
rial Majesty in the present critical period,
1 and the particular statement of which I have
reserved to a separate difcufiion. As early j
as practicable, tliat fubjeft shall be submitted J
1 to the consideration of the Committee ; but '
■ however important it may appear, it is not !
expedient with my arrangement to enter on
it at present.
Mifccllaneous Service.
• the next branch of the supplies is for de
-1 fraying the expences of what is called the
1 Mitcellarvpus Service, which includes the
1 expences of Plantations, Convicts, &c.—
1 For .this there has been already vot«* the
, furo of 378,0001. and if I proceed by the
1 estimates of the Seleft Committee, a further
sum of 929,0001. will be found neceflary..
In this-fum 400,?0c1..is comprifcd forma- .
' king provision beforehand for articles it lias
been usual to pay in the firft instance out of
the. Civil Lift, aad to propose afterwards to
Parliament to vote a sum fufficient-to repay
wljjt has been so advanced. Under this
statement, I have rrot included the provifi
-05 of any sum which the important domes- '
tic happiness of the Royal Family, and the
accustomed fertir.gs of the-country have al
lowed S3 the tifual pprtion with any qf the
female' Uraitche*. Tliat provifiou will come
better peihap« iercsfttr nadir a diftinit a. J ,
1 ; 4
•*» k - a . /
fpeclfic proportion, There. is, tiowever, a
sum of 6 50,00c1. ineiuded,. .which is propo
se d to be lent to the fafferug Grenada mer
chants over and above the funis which I have
before stated, and which are to be ultimately
repaid ; but- I took occasion to. include
them in my statement of the achul expen
diture, because they are sums for which I find
neceflar-y to provide a temporary provifiori.
Natioral Debt.
The next article o" supply is the annual
prrtvition- for the discharge of the National
Debt of 200,000.
D.fi?i.w:':cs of Land and AT.il/.
To this 13 to be added, the'ufual provifi
ori made for the deficiency of the prcjduce
of the taxes upon Laud and Malt, to the
amouut of 363,0001.
Repayments to th: Bani.
1,054,0001. is to be provided to repay
the Bank for advances upon the growing
produce of the Consolidated Fund for 1796 ,
and paid also by the Bank.
Further deficiencies of Land and Mall.
I /hall propose a further provision of—
-900,0001. to meet the deficiencies 0/ Land
j and Malt not included in the estimate, but
which I think may probably arise.
Navy and Exchcqutr Bills. \
The next sum is i,n0,0001. voted in
the Committee of Supply, for the discharge
of Navy and Exchequer Bills, raised by an
Aft of last Session, upon a Vote of Credit in
1796. The House will recolleft, that a
provision was made for funding Navy and
i Exchequer Bills, and relieving the Market
of so much qutftanding debt. There was a
party who did not choose to avail themselves
of the liberty of funding the Bills they hold,
and this sum was to make good their de
mands. ~
Consolidated Fund.
The next is a sum of 2,177,0001. to
make good 3,500, cool, charged lay.an aft
1 of last fefKou on the growing produce of
the consolidated Fund, for the service of the
■ year 1796. 3,500,00 c!. was the sum grant
ed and thought applicable, but various cir
j eumftances had operated to its disappoint
ment. Exchecquer bills advanced to the
I Merchants of Grenada and St. Vincent's,
| in consequence of the .misfortunes in those
. Colonies were paid in again ; a loss was fus
• tained in the produft both of the new and
1 old taxes, by the stoppage of our distilleries,
; the defalcation of which sums was not made
J good in the year, and to this was to be ad
j;.ded the payment of bounties to seamen, by
I tHe Receivers of the cuftomsout ofthepro
| duce.oF that year's revenue, which caused a
defalcatiori in the produce of-the cuitoms ;
and lastly. the bounties upon the importati
on of Corn. These circumstances of course
would not make the whole deficiencies good,
and leave the consolidated fund applicable to
the service of 1797 ; arid as I cannot sup
pose that the Committee would choose to
; have those sums charged like a mortgage on
the consolidated fund, I have provided for
its relief, and taken them as an article of
supply from the sth April 1796 to tfce sth
April 1797.
l r ote of credit and Loan to the Emperor.
There is only one other sum which re
mains to be stated, and that is a vote-os cre
dit to the amount of 3,000,0061. As
I 500,0001. has already been advanced to the
Emperor, I wish, if it meets with the ap
probation of Parliament, to be provided with
a further sum of 2,500,0001. in order to make
further advances, if approved of, as the
time and exigencies may require. I state
this in order to let the committee know the
ultimate amount of what sums it ma*e ne
ceflary to provide at the fame time I desire
to have it understood, that I do not mean to
pledge any person to a final vote upon fur
i ther advances to the Emperor, unless for a
t certain sum to a limited extent, which I (hall
i state before I fit down. Supposing this
vote of credit to take place, however, or
not,, I shall state that as part of the sum to
a. limited extent, which I deem absolutely
neceflary at this critical period, to allow the
Emperor to fulfill his engagements, toge
ther with myreafons forit. I have now gone
' through the whole, of the supply, all the de
mands for which it was not "possible to cal
: culate before Christmas, and throughout my
ftatemepts of them I have afted on the re
-1 port of the Seleft Committee. In so exlen
iive a statement it is impossible for me to
hope that I have proceeded so clearly as not
sometimes scarcely to have made myfelf. un
derstood ; but if any gentleman un
der any difficulty, I shall request him only
to follow me throughthe veryable statements
of the report, andl believe he will find our ac
counts tally lo nearly in the estimated fervi- '
ces and outstanding arrears* as to fliew the
fulleft confirmation of the acscuracy of my
statements. For the fake of beirig more ex
plicit however, I shall sum up all the heads
of the supply in a
RECAPITULATION.
Navy 12,661,000
Army -6,600,000
Army Extraordinaries-' 3,387,600 '
Treasury bilk and army warrants 2,088,000
Ordnance 1,622,000
Ordnance, Extraordinaries, and.
Barracks . 737,000
Miscellaneous service 929,000
Advances to the of
Grenada 600,000
Imperial loan 500,000
Annual addition to Sinking Fund 200,000
Deficiency of Land and Malt 350,000
Re-payment to the Bank for ad
-vaaces on the Consolidated
Fund of 179 5 1,054,00 <y
Ditto '796 " 1,530,000
Further deficiencies of Land and
Malt 900,000
.Ta difchargc Exchecquer Bills
ifi'ued oft the credit of the
consolidated Fund for 1796 i>jio,ooO
Deficiencies of consolidated fund 2,177,000
Vote of Credit 2,500,000
£-sß>-]86,c00 '
'
Mr. Pitt computed the sum total at
42,7}.(fc00c1. but as he omitted the frafti
i oivs in his computation, and .at otlirv tt'ines
! did not punftually-adhere t<> the statements
h) the Report of the Seleft Committer, w'th
which we have nnde a careful corHpariioj,
we trust the public will not, impute atly
blame to our fidelity for aay Vv.ry apparent
' ignorance or error,
j - IVays and Mentis.
j Now, Sir, in regard to, th£ Ways and
Means for providiiig these Sqpplies, I mast
beg leave to state, that a fum'a little "lets'
than seven millions will cover th,e
because a repayment of fame of the advances
' may taice place in the ccurie of the year; I,
500,000!. ariling from the Taxes"on the
Land and Malt, will be paysble by Ofto
ber, and Exchequer Bills to the amount of
j i,6q0,00g1. will repay the Tijejfury Bills
. in the fame sum paid at the Bijnk.
My next duty, in the meag .time, is'to
1 state with what ways and means 1 am pro
, vided to meet the various sums of this larg«
amount. 111 order to do that, I.shall begin
with the laud and malt already voted, which
according to the usual calculation is reck
oned at 2,750,000!. The surplus- of grants
already voted,- and the loan by.
voluntary, Subscriptions, 18,000,0001. mak
ing a sum total of 21,1.7.0,0001. These are
the only sums already voted towards-dctray
ing the expences of the year, but there were
other sums stated in the original statement,
of which the firft was a lottery. The lot
tery has varied in the general statement, but
taken according to the usual profit, it pro
duces somewhere about 200,0001. By ex
chequer bills in the former statement, I took
credit for 5,500,0001. which is the usual a
mount of exchequer bills kept afloatbut
I do not now think it prudent to rely ypon
an iflue of exchequer bills to that amount on
account of the recent embarraflments in
public credit. I shall not reckon therefore
on a larger ifTne than 3,000,0001. which is
less than the quantity now in circulation; I
shall take the surplus of the growing pro
duce of the consolidated fund on a new esti
mate, on account of the charges on it, and,
shall therefore take credit for a moderate
sum to be derived from that source. This
moderation does not rife from any diminu
tion of the permanent taxes, because the
report of the feleft committee on finance
confirms my repeated afTertions of the flou
rifhing state of the permanent revenue ; nor
does it rife from any considerable disappoint
ment from the produce of new taxes, be
cause, upon a review of the new taxes levied
in 1793, '794> 1 79 Si ar, d the best esti
mates of the probable amount of the new
taxes for 1796, when any supposition is en
tertained that they will not be able in their
ultimate amount to maintain themselves at
the produce at which they were computed,
by Jetting them againfHhe loans since raised, '
and operating one again'fl the other to a ge- ;
neral dimiihition, it will be found that they j
go near to counterbalance any deficiency, '
and are nearly equal to-the charge upon the
consolidated fund by' providing the interest '
of the funded debt. But it is to be .reqol- J
lefted, that although ift laying taxes I take I
credit for an amount which cannot be so !
productive as I may have calculated, I have i
generally endeavored soon enough, to meet j
the increaftd charge, arid prevent an aecu- j
muhition of unfunded debt. I -now stand!
with the knowledge of two quarters, freed
from a mortgage of 1,075,0001. and higher
in theij l computation than I was juftified to
make thefer. As heavy asray computation
might be, however, ! have the. fatisfaftion
to hope, the total of the supply. may recur
before the taxes of next year, though "al
lowanos must be taken for both confedera
tions. Every estimate is liable to uncer
tainty, but the average of the permanent
taxes upon 4 years I find to be 13,919,000,
to which adding duties of 1796, I shall have
a total sum of 17,803,0001. I am aware
of the allowance on wine, from the flock i*
hand, but in looking at the produce of the
sum total of the permanent taxes, and look
ing forward to distant periods when frefh
sums will become due, I have a right to as
sume that to be the amount ; for when we
cease to take account of the flock on hand,
the annual consumption will replace the de
ficiency. The taxes imposed for 1797,
were reckoned at 2,106,0001. Part of those
taxes, it is true, are yet under consideration,
but, many will take place at an early period.
I do not suppose, therefore, that I shall be
taking the benefit of the estimate at too
mudh, if upon the whole I value them at
1,500,0001. To this is to be added the
! further amount of 600,0001. which I fup
j pose to be the nett profit of the taxes which
I*l am about to propose, and the advantage
of which we are likely to receive by the sth
of April next, so that the whole yearly a
mount of the produce of the permanent re
venue may then be calculatedat
Mr. Pitt then calculated the various other
sums to. meet the supplies from the arrears
of land and malt, the sale of Dutch prizes,
the returns of payment to the bank, the re- ]
maining money on hand upon the corn
bounties, See. making-tr sum" lotal of
42,870,000!. He then discussed the vari- 1
ous terms of the loan .with the separate con- 1
ditions as fßey have been detailed in pur pa 1 - ]
per, and took this opportunity of stating his j
intention in the prefTure of the prefertt criti- ]
cal period, to advance 200,0001. to the em- I
peror, in order to enable him to fulfil, hisen- . 1
gagements in this country ; the ttmi3 of,the '
loan he left to a future day,, but hoped to
be able to take- them into conitderatioUb on (
Monday next—« Thul far (fald he) I !
have Hate*} the total amount of the different i
sums which, upon the- iairefi calculation X 1
could make, I conceive.to be necessary tow? 1
ards defraying the expences of the present \
year. I have endeavored to. provids. for !
every burthen which the exigencies of the ,
country may require ; but at the fame-time, i
I do not wish the comniittee to' underfUud j
tliat I corilider.all my statements free from 1
incorreftncfs.and inaccuracy. Over a»d a- '
bove theintereftpf the sum that.is to be raised '
by the loan, there are Came other articles to j
be annually prorided for ; cmeof these is the <
sum lo te allowed to the eoßarriflkmers ap- :
psjjit«TTc(r rte >> re<k:£ik»e of the 'national
deist, 'which'an"oi:ut3 to about z per. cent,
and whiqh, g.ddcd *c> the interest of €l. 7s.
'4. J. wilt njaike ttic whole SI. ?s.' 4<h Wjth
rc'gard to tile 'lo.'U!. of f8 millions, I muff
: obfrrve, that rifter 3 certain part of it (hall
be njiplicd to the fitrviee of Ireland, aiid ano.
t*er soi'hpt of the emperor, thejtotql amount
i of. the eliarge to this country will be no
more than 13 JBilliono; and this charge will
r appear-to 1m! (till kjs \vfcen it is conlidered
that itconftderable- part of it is to to the
diminution of exchequer tills. There is at
, prtfeirt. a" floating navy debt, of abtjtit four
; millions, l\vo millions o£ which-.exiftcd at
■ the beginning <rf the •si'ai 1 . In confluence
r -of.the difficulty of pTOCvmjig csfh, this sum
; cannot probably be dyninifhed at the present
jjenod,nor paid off tilLtbc war fltall be pot
an" end'to. I would nof provide a higbej
ipterclt for it than 5 per cent. The whole
of this ihtcrel?;' will amount to the
sum of i'7s, bbq!/ There is' alfoar-defciency
of 100, cool, in taxes, which'is to be pro
vided fo that the .jyliole of tiie tasea
which it is necessary to raise for these
leveral ptirpofes, will ta between
1,00a,c001, and 1,200,000!, There is
another' question which is neceffarity involv
ed in the present fubjefl, fajit which, as it is
to be a matter of diftinft discussion, I will
not enter into at present. I Ciall barely
mention the circumltance. The nature and
terms of the lad loan, which I submitted to
this house, mutt naturally be in the recollec
tion of molt gentlemen, I will, on a future
day, put it to the confiderdtion of the houfc,
how far the fubferibers to that loan (liould
have been losers in consequence of the great
discount upon it. That will appear mote
clearly from the circumstances attending the
present unexpected loan. It will certainly
be neceiTary for thi house to adopt some mea
sures. which Ihallmake up the losses to those
gentlemen, who, in a moment so crSJcal,
came forward and displayed their patriotilrn
and loyalty, by contributing so largely to
the exigencies of the country. In consid
ering the amount of the new faxes which I
have thought it necessary to lay before the
committee, I have made no estimate of those
which were created before Christmas, in the
last budget, because in so short a time ail
accurate estimate could not be taken : and
I have therefore supposed in my present cal
culation that they will be as produ&ive as I
then stated at the* opening of that budget.
New Taxes.
I now proceed (laid Mr. Pitt) to enter upon
that ti»plea'fant task which falls r« my lot, ,of
propofmgto thecpmmitteethegeneraleutlines of
such sources of taxation, is have appiared to
me least objeftionabie,and best calculated to pro
ducejthe means of meeting all the difficulties of
our present situation. The Committee mutt
| not suppose that there catj.be any taxes whate
ver which will not be liable to many objections ;
, but I triift that when th?y consider the necessity
I as raising taxes to a certain amoiint, and of pro
! vidivig for unavoidable expenccs, they will agree
j with me that those which flull appear to fall
; tnoft lightly upon all descriptions of people,
| ought to be cfiafen in prefernce to any others'.
; 1 hope that.wKle the Committee meet the pro
t poGtions Miave to make with a firm determing
j tion to difculs them, they will also consider that
I it ought to be their jirft nbjeA-to obtain eftW)u
ja I taxes. Among the different branches which
form, the objects of taxation in this courier",
j there is one great source of productive rercnile
! exteiifive iri. its operation, not preffipg on any
particular •delVription of psi fors, arid°l t a(t of
ail iipOn Uie lower orders ofyeoplc, a mode of
taxation, winch is fafe and expeditious in the'
mode os-collecting it, and what is lliil we
advantage. H~,,'will not require any additional
expeiice either with 1 efpect so' hew officer, „„
increase of. fahry to those already emploj ed in
performing ttat part of the-public service.
Otis fourte of revenue is the general branch of
the Stamp Duties, which for *h& last 15 ypars
has b*en rapidly increasing ; arid has been do-.i
bled since the last war. My genera! ofejedt in
laying additional duties on this, va'.t branch of
revenue, ts to make a diltiiictionbetwen diHerent
artieles, some of which I shall tax in a greatT
proportion than others while fame are to be ex
empted altogether. The greatest addition is to
be laid on thole which go under the general del
nomination oi Consolidated Duties. These
are of that deicription, where "stamps of the
fame-, denomination hive been applied general!*
to different kinds of jnftrumems. They include
a variety of articles; The principal of these
relate to the transfer of property, to deeds, ad
judicatiocs, and proceedings in the eeclefiaftical
vourts'. My objeA, &s I have juftobferved, is
to fee what augmentation tuay take place by le
yymg atax on thewholemafs of{|arrps. But it
is my intention to exempt from the general tax
all inftriimentsthat relate' fo law proceedings in
courts of jullice. I know that an opinion has
prevailed, andi witji Tome degree of jtoftice, that
by taxing articles of this dffenptton, and by
that means ericreafiiig thcexpcnce? of hw fuiti,
the frequency of litigation between parties
might in a grest meafurt-, be pi evented j but
thi? rule is not 111 geiieraUi ire. li ihecaß, cf a
tuit are. encreaCed-to .1 largeahiountV it may fall
»ery heavy.on perfctisavbo onlyfoßght tortcc
rer their property ; ,»Vl p. ificqhrrly-on several
of the'lower clafli-sjif .lKe people, who are of
ten under rhe necessity of appcaliMlo court* cf
juilite-againfl thoft u-ho v. iuHi-I wiflj to fake ad-
Hitir inability, and rcfaf? the pay
ment of . debts Which nttty be due. I
would alftf except from «*atiotTa!i probates of
wills orider ee, t*in fiims ; nor dc»rtv«an to pro
pOse any tax upon tegacici, eeeent du
ty has bees laid u;ion them in another form 1 ;
nirtler the' fameVlalb I aliooteiude po!t*
cWof niluranee. On the general bulk, therr
fore, of itajirjn, I Would in oj>olV, so" clause the
-present araupwt, and'that vilf-nrViiijif, animal
; ly>..a fivm of 5-o,ocol. llut \ rfte'iH except
ftpm ,th:s general pja«,. Xfcins i»I parchment
w.hith have iietn f jtnprt 1 , iirfraM' doub
ling the duty on, f fjuil prcpnfe, tliat-rhere
Ccin has pafd a duty of 7s. au >ei:lit;pml dntv >.f
only :«• fiiall be laid upon -it. From tie full.«
inforfcatiou wKich I have received froii the dit
feaern oiSisc* on this fubj«3, it I as appealed to
rae, that this -is-the. best mode 6f taxing the ar
tiele hi queilieii. and. that hy fwh means it will
be equally productive with the other, taxes of
fsrae definition. VVith to duties 00
transfers <j' pe'/ma! prop-t tj, where ftarrps
may be necessary to give it validity, th(Te is 110
lofcjcil rt taxation wh.ich Ought more freely to
-give a eontribif'ion tti the pub!i<? than that
which mutt fall Jb Jigbtly On cvcrV individual
who may happen to lie in poj&ffion of ample
means todefny a charge that trujft,-iti such cir
cumstances, U- comparatively trifting,- and no
ways huitl»«nr..me to the individual who pays it-
Os-er and atK>ve the duty npon this branch, f
tr.ecc to propose- fotQe scale fcr tratifar, scccrd-illj: tc ttie amount of tile property
Ih otkr'ug thi» t«x, l aro cxttjjrtinj3 prin
ciple which hss+ieeri already stated'by Parlii
mcnr, A duty ef fid., in the p'juiid'on every
• icol. hjj *', l profiehn' tranf»
lerrcilby puW.e jnd' if ti'be a.inittfd
that a f 'iii 'on DUifl.r.iM i»?. fair t>x, vrlv.t.nhjec
u«<i yu y»rr? be to fayiup a fimiUr 14* on ptr -
perry told - fey' private coHtfa& I the only n!>jfc-'
t„m chu l>asttu»rMl 10 me on this Pibjsfl is,
that of the tax "peratinj; mcaT«< of d'lfrefsj a
* *hieh, I fc.-.Hi when the' bilt voieeiio its
. proper itaye before tbt house, mak,e a provifioa.
'i iit ou'.y 1 rr.Uti tar propt fe thtr. fcre, wiil be
a p-sund on every )001. obtained tor proper-'
>f ■ i ai:i,Vriij, in tliit u ay. I .in rather a loss 18
Blake u 1 ecuurate. efUnute of tbe..i"iitn which
ifta? be thus prodDced ; livit if I may Be peernit
ted 10 ft nn a ;udgE«efit from the increased dutv
. ten the last three ve»rs, I ean ve
T" r<*li!y suppose that this tax will he Very pro,
duflive ; »iid as tlic f-»rh)er has prpdliced
ioo,oc«l. in one year, it is reafonah!e to calcu
late tJtar 4d.y>- poi/nd conldtration money upon
the !at(«V will hriag in afum of 170,0001. lup
pnfiag the property trantferable in one year to !
y ;montt to the sum of io,cco,oogl. The next tax
-1, wlili k 1 have to proj>of« in addition to thi<, it
OIK wjtich fall equally light on all deCcrip
. tiors of peopie ; it has been Hated to me that
the ."iithcr.rlcited topxesof deeds which are kept
ihdifferent offit'tj never have any (lamp upon
-tlie-n, and that it is only the orirfiral deed which
ii stamped ; 1 shall therefore propole that
there lliotild be 00 copy of this kind without
a ft amp equal to that of the original ; and
the duties producedby this regulation would
amcunt to the sum of 40,0001, The fourth
aititle which I mean to propose as a fubjeft
of taxation, relates to the Prebates of Wills,
all of which, except those for sums under
3001. I shall move to pay a certain duty,
which may produce the fund of 40,0001. —
'I he next lubjeA I have to offer to the com
mittee, is One which will produce a great
deal of difcufiion 6ut of this house. It re
lates to a certain species of property well
known in this country ; but it will be the
v-liicle (and that not a verbal one) of con
veying to the different parts of the country,
what I am now Hating. When Iconfiderthe
great pre valenee of this vehicle ofgeneral intel
ligence ; when I consider the amazing extent
to which it has been carried ; that the lux
ury of it has been so very generally felt and
■ pra&iicd ; that the taste of the Public is not
'likely to be shaken, by any trifling encrcafe
111 the price of an article fought after with
such universal avidity ; when I consider al
so the immense profits produced by these ar
ticles of luxtiry, which are of a nature fhat
Ought not to exempt them from their share
of general taxation, I conceive that the lay
ing on an additional duty on . ne-wfpapers. it a
meafpre that cannot be in any manner objec
tionable. This might be donewithout any in
juryeitherto theeditorsorthe authors of such i
publications. Theprefentduty is 2d on each
paper ; in addition to which I should pro- 1
pose a further tax of one penny halfpenny ; ;
and even in that cafe, considerable gains
will be produced to the proprietors of pa
pers. I should conceive that the price to
customers ought not to be raised any higher
than this additional duty ; because on a for
mer occasion, in confequen.ee of an encreaf
edduty otr. paper, the price of newspapers
were raised far beyond that proportion, and
has continued so ever since' < therefore I do
not imagine the proprietors of them can
now hive any equitable claim to an encreafe
in their price. The sum produced by this
duty oil! amount to H4,0c01. The next ;
thinj; I have to propose, is a modification of
the duties on advertisements publifhpd in news
papers, According to the regulations that ;
exist at prpfent, there is no difference in the
duty upon an advertisement of three lines
and that on one <jf the greatell extent. I
i should propose to vary the present mode,
and according to the regulations whieh I
shall offer, there may be advertisements the
duty on which shall amount only to some
fhillingsj while on others the duty shall rife
up to some pounds flerling. The eitimated
produce from this source will amount to
ao,oool. The next duty I have to propose
ii to arise from a regulation of the fiamps on
attornies certificate/, by which certain frauds
that have hitherto been praftifed may be
prevented. This will produce the sum of
15,0c01. There is one more article of lux
ury which I shall propose to lay a tax on ;
that is, all plate that Jhall be manufactured
forth.' purpnfe of ornamental.use, which will
produce the sum of 30,0e01.-' All those
taxes which I -have just now enumerated,
seem to rae-to press as lightly on the gene
raftjulk of the people as any I could think
of; and leaf! of all to increase the nationul
difficulties. There still remains one more
to be added. I have endeavored to find
one, which, although I corifcfs it is not free
from some speculative and practical objec
' tionj, \yill not however be found inconve
nient to the public at large. It is'a fubjeft
which ha« often been thought of before
Hii« time ; which has been once before this
hptifc but Was withdrawn. This is a tax on
carriages of all forts, and tan gOods of all
kipcts coiv«ye4 by carriages w"hich pass
through tiirnpUe-gater, whefe the la"X"i« to
. operate by air mcteafe of the tolls. To
illic it-will be right to tViake some eximp
«<r tifkM i fuilf as exemption? on all new tolls
• : Vny they shall have rifcn to a certain amount
' A-:tferie'jal;«<rcptions provided- for by gene
-\4law£Tr-an<j localesception»in certain di
, _ . The lm>e-cxceptio?s that now pre
vail in tolls alfo tO prevail on tjie part
! »of the pUfilic ; and I should propose that
n- theftnx- dutj maybe taken for the publics,
ttSt is how paid for tolls. I .cannot exactly
fay how much thii vri'j prodtuie; but T
know tjiat w'vKti it was brought forward
hereabout 15 years-ago, it was CltimateU
; it fio W« afum than between 4 and jco,'oco
- pounds. With r«fpeft to the piinciple of
' this tax, it may be to <jii the ground
of its being a-great hardiuip-bo tay a bur
tlten on pajjengers and -U>e conveyance of
good.); but I hope ■when gen tit men \rill
confidrr how final! a portion mull fall to
well individual, that they will not look
upon this is a grievance, But rather as a
I,'anAer of listen ing thej?cncf4 burthens.
f J have now listed every thing whieh I con
ceived material in-aa conciiie a manner Is I
could ; and t return my thanks to thrcorc
mittee fjt tl.e indulgence they have ftiewn |
;nc_during the length of time I have trcf- ]
pafied on their attention. I -have no other j
exenfe to make- than that I am pleading.j
the ncccffity of dwelling oil a subject whi.-h
T did not wish.to brii)g'forward.immediately.
• —And I n»w submit this pleasing oJrcutn
llance to the confidcration- of the House,
that in the midst of difficulties-, - and appa
rently surrounded by calamities, we have
fliL been able to find such ample rtfources,
as those which have been stated to them this
day. I call upon thefn to reflect, that at
the moment when we are struggling with a
great cocteft—while we are laboring under
prefTures as heavy as they are unexampled;
we still fee the itrength and powers which
we poflefs ; and that if we are not to be a
larmed at imaginary evils ; if we are not to
be dispirited by events which are not so ca
lamitous in themselves as they have been
conceived to be ; we shall find the radical
wealth and the ample means of this country
fully fufficient to support us in every con
juncture of c>ur affairs, and ultimately to
restore us to that situation from which we
have been removed for a time, by circum
stances as extraordinary as they have been
unavoidable.' He then concluded by mov
ing resolutions founded on his flatements.
Among these the following—
Summary of the nevFtaxes.
The consolidated duties on stamps
in general doubled -
Tax on property transferred by pri
vate contract - - 1,70,090
Tax on copies of deeds - 40,000
On probates of wills above the sum
ot Jdol. - - 4.0,000
Addition of l I-2d. on each newf
paperftamp - - 114,000
Increased duty on advertisements 20,000
On attornies certificates - 15,000
On ornamental plate - 30,000
Duty equal to the tolls on all car
riages palling through turn
pikes - 450,000
Total,
£T"o be concluded ta-morro-w.J
%f)e «sasette*
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, June 21.
>
APPOINTMENT.
Monday last the Governor appointed and
commiUioned John D. Coxe,
the President of the Court of Common
Pleas of the First Diftrid, in the room of
James Biddle, deceafed.
The President of the United States has
nominated Elbridge Gerry, of
Massachusetts, Envoy Extraordinary and
Minister Plenipotentiary to the French Re
public, in the placeof Francis Dana, Esq.
who has declined that appointment.
Last Saturday Evening, a lad by the
name of» Hopper, of this city, was drown
ed in the Delaware. ?
Monday last a French Merchant of this
; City died very suddenly—it is supposed he
had taken Laudanum, as he left a written
1 paper, that was fbuud after his death, in
r which he gave notice that he should be dead
in two-hours.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Poht of Philadelphia.
ABRIYF.p. DAYS j
Ship Fair American, iiathaway St.Kitts 24 ,
Schr. Aim, Hall, St. Domingo 16
Little Fanny, Ccjf, St. Thomai's 14
Harmony, Culhing. • Aux Ca\cs 27
Sally, Ckurch . Savannah 8
Wiificld Packet, M'Near, Richmond 8
Sloop Maria> Becker, Charleston, 6
cleared.
Ship Fame, Jone«, Charleston and Hamburgh
Aerial, Tarris HamSurgh
William Penn, Jofiah, London
Ar.n&Mary, Billjs, St. Thomas
Snow Diamond, Eaiibura, Liverpool
Urig Molly, Divine, *" Fori Dauphin
Eagle, Haftie, Bordeaux
Sally, Vum, Wilmington, D.
Liberty, Duer, " Thomas
Schr, Minerve, Dill, Cape Nicholl Mole
Schr. Virginia and Philad. Packet, Hollet. Not.'oik
J*y, Smith, . Boston
Maria, Hodgfon, v - FiederKkfborgh
Fanny Bridger, Dunn, New-York
Cfcffy, Biovn, North Carolina
Sloop Mary, L'Hommtdieu. New-York
Diamond, Alwood, Bo (lon
Delight, Haughwout, Virginia
Pe.'gy & Molly,'Rfynold#, R chmorid
Induftrv, B own, fiihimore
The following veflels were left at St Pomingo by
capi. Hjl!, oftlie Ann.
Ship Ardent,. Gra>bcii, of Baltimore.
Columbia, Harden, of PoriWd. ""
Waibtngioq, M*Her, Ph»r«delphil.~
Schr. Ulalia, Wheeler, do.
Capi. Hall in lit. «8, 30, I *»g. 75, go, {poke
brig Mint rva, Long, out i-s days trout hence to Ja
maica—all well.
Capt, H il informs, that he saw a (hip off Reedy,
Island-, inward bound, carry awav her topfaiU in the
..{quail* She is a yellow ii4ed vefle), hat the figuie of
a woman at her he ad, a«d a tier of painted ports.
A brig, a fchoonei and a ilaop, name* unknown
arc below.
Ncnu-Yorky June ao.
• ARMVtD. PAYS
Bog Sally, Waldrom, Cilracoa
Schr, Dolphin, Goodwin, Bermuda, 7
Ship Franklin, arrived at Bourdeaux, in
19 days frOm this port.
fwo ships and a brig at the Hook, —
names unknown.
From the logbook of the brig Resolution,
Capt. Pinckam, 5 1 days from Bonavifla.
April 27, lat.-l<S, 9, long. 24, saw fet*n
"large (hip# which we took to be English
Eaft-Indiamen.
May a-7, long. 6j, 3c, spoke the schoon
er Bctfey, C a P*- J- Maxwell, from Norfolk',
bound to Guadeloupe— Same day spoke
the brig. Twins, Capt. Keeley, from Phi
ladelphiit, bound to St. Croix.
June 7, lat. 38, 23, leng. 16, 19, spoke
the Difpatck, Capt. lJotler, from Virginia
botlui to MartTiique.
I jane 12, jat. 3d, li, ions'. 69, 12, spoke
i the brig Eliza, Capt. Miller, from New
• Haven, bound to St. Croix.
April, pafkd Bortarifta the brig Garland,
Capt. Worth, of Baftoa bound to the
Faulkland [Hands.
In the Amsterdam Packet, from GJpf
■gow, came 54 paflengers.
Brig Elefta, Capt. Almy, arrived at Jac
quemel, May 19.
The brig Bayohne, arrived at Martinique
the 15th May; the Ihip Franklin, 011 the
22d May, both from this port.
Baltimore, June 19. „
Ycllerday arrived, ship Louts, Captain
Deal 88 days from the Ille of France, brings
nothing new—off Turk's Island, was boar
ded by a Britilh frigate and after a strict
examination, fuffered to proceed.
By this day's Mail.
SALE My June 13.
In the Frcnch papers from Bourdeaux, kind
ly communicated by Cap!. Upton, of which fix
are in the month of April, we have found few
articles, but have noticed the following.
In January, the RuJJia fleet in the black
Sea wets reported at PeterJburgh to conjjl of
20 Ihips of the Line, built of Oak, and us good
conJlruSion for fa ft failing, 10 of 50 guns
and others were building, among which was
one of go guns. There were 17 frigates. The
smaller vessels with flat bottoms were 126, fuf
ficient to tranfpart 30,000 men, drawing only
three feet water. •
Tbe news from Basle was, that the neutral
ity of that place'had brought company from all
countries, and that the Swiss Cantons had re
called all their troops from the frontiers, and
sent rhem home, confident that they should have
no further occajion for them.
CHARLESTON, June 2. *
COMMUNICATION.
The Spanijh general sometime since said to
have been in Georgia, is gone to St. Augujline.
His errand was to fee gen. Clarke, who was
fufpeSed of being in the BritiJh interefl; whe
ther the suspicions were jtfl,. or\therwife,
Clarke is certainly noju on his way to St. Au
gujline, to ajfijl iff its defence againjl the Bri
tiJh.
A major de Bert is a principal in the tlan
for fending about 2000 men, French and 0-
thers (probably a great many Americans from
the back parts of Georgia, South-Carolina,
North-Carolina, and Kentucky) to defend St.
'vgufline againfi the expected attacks of the
English, or more probably to take pojfejfion of
it in tbe name of liberty and equality.
SAVANNAH, June 6.
MeJfrs. Powers & Seymour,
I will thank you to insert the fuljoined in
your ufeful paper, and oblige
A SUBSCRIBER.
On Thursday tafl arrived at Cockfpur, a
Virginia built brig, formerly called the Matil
da, at present under Spanijh colours, mounting
16 guns 4 and 6 pounders, with 102 men ;
lajl from St. Thomas', commanded by Tho
mas IVhippo, whose general character is well
known in the middle andfouthern Jlates as well
as feme parts of Europe. 'Unfortunately for
our national character, he once claimed the
right of a citizen of New-York by birth.
Capt. IVhippo arrived dt this port late in
the month of December lafl, iif the fbip Com
merce of New-Tori, from 'Baltimore ; here
he made a kind of sale of the ship, to Capt.
John Green of Alexandria, who loaded her
for the. Wtfl-Indies. To avoid the fraternul
embrace of the fheriffi, or some of his deputies,
and to dfappo'int his creditors, Capt. IVhippo's
friends gave out that he had embarked iu the
barque Albany, for Europe, and from that
time he. became invisible to the public. When
the Commerce was ready for failing, he left \
this city by moon light, and proceeded in her to
St. Croix, where Jhe was again fold,
this virtuous American proceeded to St. Tho
mas', and purchafecl the brig above mentioned,
and has come hither with the laudable intention
of capturing American property.
CONGRESS.
- HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES,
Turf lay, Joins 10.
The a£t for mating a detachment of the militia,
was read the third time and the blanks filled up,
fixing the number of men which each state (houid
furuilh on thebalisof the number of while inhabi
tants, as follows:
Tenneffce, Bc6
Georgia, 1334
S. Carolina, 3<35
N. Carolina, 7168
Kentucky, . IJ4 I
Virginia, 11150
Maryland, 5161
Delaware, 1168
Pennsylvania, 10 96
New-jerfcy, ' 4186
New-York, . 7913
Conceilicuc, jB6o
Rhode Island, 18*6
Maliachufetts, IIB3S
New-He. plhire,\ 3 j S g
Vermont, ii^o
Total, Bo,oco
The bill puffi-d 43 to 26.
Mr. W. Smith, from the committee of ways
and means, reported a bill laying a «iuty 011 licen
ces foi the fate of wines by retail, and also foreign
diflilled spirits, which twice toad, and commit
ted to a committee of the whole on Thursday.
The house then resolved itfelf into a committee
of the whole on the bill tor railing an additional
torps of artillery ; when
Mr. 8. Smith took, a pretty eitenfivc view of the
fubjeet, aid noticing the men reported to be Ra
tioned at different places, infifttd upon there being
a fulticient number at every one, except at Wil
®mingt<ii», N. Carolina. Hewilhcd the deficiency
in the prelcnt ri-£imrnt to be filled up, and then
there might be a supply sent to Rhode-Island, and
any other place where they might be required.
Mr. Giles moved to ftiiae out the firftfedtion of
the bill. He thought the 300,000 dollars pro
poled to be expended on this objeft might be bet
ter of in another way.
Mr. W. .Smith hoped the present motion would
tiot prevail, as it was intended to destroy the bill,
fie thought tbe Prciident and Secretary of War
having recommended the measure, and one branch
of the legillature having pafled s law upon the
fubjed, thty ought nut to defeat the b:.finefe in this
way. He was fwjirifcdthc gentleman from Ma
ryland fr.cuM have been so decidedly opposed to it,
since thi other day he feeined undetermined on
the fubjeift. Hrhadtafcen a view of tlic different
polls, and declared them all well garrisoned, but
he had taken no notice of places where thtre was
hot a single mail. Mr. S. said it Ihould be reinem
bered that in the men calculated to be at each place,
were included non-conmidioned officers and rfin
fid; dripped of these, htfmade the whole number
•jybmen. The polls at which no nien were Ha
tion:<l'K!*e, he said, Portland in Maine, Ports
m->utli, N. H Gl«Ueefter, Salem, Newport, R.I
New Lo"do*i, and Po nt Petre at Savaniuh.
The report ol the Secretary ol War, Mr S no
ticed, had repr fttited these placet as to de
cay for want-os eing keut in repair. He noticed
leir.e abjefiioh-, I'rgeci ajjainft th srn:afure on a for
mer day. He denied that this could !>c called the
fcleton of a ri::ini nt; it was nearly complete, as
nejr as it (ffuld well he. None of the artillery on
the frontier eculd be fafely drawn away. Our fi
lu-itiou ih're was critical; and tu take any men
away, whilst the Spaniards were lscieafing their
force, would operate to our disadvantage in the
.minds of ihe Indians. Mr. S. denied that,the ex
pence would be so £reat as had been said. Our Ti
tration, he faid,'was neither pence nor war, but a
fort of intermediate lUte, which wa« far from
hieing fafe, and wh ch required tiiem to prepare tor
war. If gentlemen had not been of this-opinion,
why incretfe our naval armamuit ? He thought
they com radioed themlolves. He charged ths
gentleman from Maryland with having fcr/ot the
raprcf ntation he bad given on a fornier occalion
with refpeft to the fttuation ef the fortifications
at Baltimore, which he then said was not fufficient
to keep off the ctius. (Mti S. Smith said iie ip '-ke
only of the want of a fence). This measure had
been charged with being an increase of o»ir peaca
! eftablilhnv rft and that die bill being for five years
countenanced this idea He denied that this was
the cafe, and if the period were thought too ionjj,
it might be Ihortened. Gentlemen had also said,
that advaatage wts taken of the impuife of ths
moment to pais this bill. But by what, he siked,
had this unpulfe been occafioaed, but from an id a
of the danger of a war? And he thought the
fears of the nation ought to be calmed, by taking
such measures as the present.
When an increase of the navy was under con
federation, Mr. S. said, g#ntlemen exclaimed, leave
trade to tal:e careol itfelf, and let us attei.d to the
internal defence of the country; but now, when
they were preparing fir that, the faille men fay we
are about te employ upon this obje& what ought tu
be employed for theproteiSion of commerce Mr.
S. laid it was an error to fay no tares would be
wanted, if this bill did not paTs. There would be
money i i that cafe wanting' for manning the fii
gates, for arming the revenue cutters, for the di
plomatic department, and for the expellees of this
feflion (not ltfs than 60 or 70,000 dollars)
would he needed for the lafl item only for the pay
siant of the agents appointed for afjfting to car
ry into cffeift the 6th article of the Britilh treaty,
&c So that that that argument had no weight. It
was said these men were unneceflary, because the
militia were the proper defence; but-the Prefi icnt
had not the power to call out the militia, except in
cases of infurre&ion or invaGon, so that an enemy
might get poffefiion of the polls before the militia
'were called out.
Mr. S. concluded by faying there were about. 33
forts on the sea coast, and that these men ditlributed
among them would only give 14 to each, which
would r.ot be fufficient to preserve the guns from
rufl ; and, if this bill palled, there would only be
41 for each fort. He submitted it to the commit
tee, therefore, whether they ought to rilk the fafcty
of the country for the fake of 316,000, dollars.
He trulled they would not.
Mr. Shepard opposed the motien. He thought
it necelTary men fliould be sent to thofc forts
where there were none,t» prevent them from go
ing to ruin. Inflead of the number proposed to
be raised, he tho't two companies wou'd be fuffi
cient. He did not think the country in a fafc state,
»nd wi(h«d to make it in some degree more so.
Mr. Baldwin observed, that since the
adoption of the federal government, the his
tory of the military eftablilhment had, in his
judgment, been the molt expensive and un
fortunate part of its hiltory. It had com
monly been so of all nations. He thought
there was every inducement, from the ex
perience of ourselves and others, to make as
sparing a use of it as possible. The reasons
hitherto afligned for a military eftablilhment,
in this country, have been a supposed un
friendly difpoiition in foreign nations, and of
the vast Indian tribes who bordered on our
frontiers. These had been for fcveral years
the cause of great anxiety and expenee ; they i
were all now happily removed by treaties of
peace lately established. It was his opinion,
that on that event there was little or no cause
left for any military establishment at all. He
had been one of a committee last year who
recommended a reduftion of them, particu
larly a total reduction of the cavalry : this
recommendation did not fully prevail, but
his opinion was still the fame. The reasons
now urged for regular troops mult be con
sidered principally of' a permanent .nature#
and for a peace establishment; the enlistment
now proposed is for five years—he hoped it
would not prevail; he hoped the establish
ment would not be carried to any greater
extent at this time. More money and mere
troops was apt to be an increasing paflion,
•always attending large delegations of power;
colleft money to raise armies, and raise ar
mies to collect money, has been a wheel of
fortune to theffi, and a wheel of rack to their
fubjetts. He 'hoped this country would
form an exception, and fliew that some of
the miseries of the world were not the in
separable condition of man. It was the
profefled objeft and principle of our revo
lution } none of its friends can advocate a
.standing army. The fpecinl reasons urged
of their being necelTary to keep peace with
the Indian nations on the frontiers, or for
the forts on "the sea coast, he thought had
not great force ; the numbeV or extent of
the forts is not to be encreafed ; in a finilh
ed State they would require fewer troops to
man them. There had always been a fron
tier, and large nations of Indians bordering
upon it ever lince the firft settlement of the
country ; there is therefore nothing new in
our situation in that respect, to urge it more
than formerly ; Aat there (hould be £ome
confufion and disorder from that cause, had
always appeared unavoidable, but regular
troops had not been found by experience to
be the most ready or molt ufeful relief. He
believed things mull go on pretty much as
they had, and that eftablilhing the civil go
vernment was all that could be done in the
cafe. He thought the fifty companies now
in service would be fufficient for all purpo
ses, and that the new regiment now propo
sed woidd not be necessary.
Mr. Williams thought the report which
they had received from the war-office . did not
go far enough. Eef.des the artillery, we had
four battalions of infantry, which mujl be some
where in garrison. He thought the present
number of artillery was fufficient, being the
fame at in 1J94, efftciaHy since artilirry nei
tier ereUed forts nor kept them in repair,
•wifhedthe 122 deficient jgicn to Le raised, and
fentto Georgia, and places crfl of blew-Tori,
Indeed, it would appear extraordinary, if,
after voting IJ 0,0 00 (hilars for fortifications»
tb.y Jlould vjti'j at leaf! 250,000 for men to,
tdhe care of them, tic did hot think it •would
le prudent at phef nt to go into the meafurei
fine? be did nit believe any danger tvas noiu to
be apprehended, arid as they did not knoiu
•where the money -was to-come from. £te did
not wish to go on increq/ing the utebe, and hi
few I'ttle chance of raising frejh. revenue.—
iVe had at present, he said, a greater propor
tion of artillery, than ahy ocher nat'tbn ; hav
ing 16 compauiet (f artillery to Si of infant
ry. If more troops nt.'r; tiecejpiry, let such be
raised as vfoilUbe tnofl vfefiil. They held re
ceived a bill from the Senate for raifiog a pro
•oiftonal army, tuber that came before them, ht
\fhould give it his note.
(To be ttntinued.)
POST-OFFICE, Philadtlphia, June it 1797.
lisittri for the Britifii Paccket, Carteret, will
be received at tl> is office uatil Saturday the 44th
inft.at 12 o'clock, noon.
CINCINNA T I.
■"J -I HE Mfmbqrs «f this State Society are here
i. by notified, that their afiniverfary meeting;
for the purpose of ele£tinj* ofiietrs of the Socie
ty, and tranfailing ftich other business as any
come before them, will be held oil the 4th day
or" July next, in the State-Honfe, at ioo'clncir..
in the morning. The puuflual attendance of
the members is reqtfelted, Ul quorum did net
attend »t ih« lalt anniyerfary meeting—After
the I ufinefs is fimfhed, the Society wili adjourn
to O* fillers Hotel, in order to celebraie the bitth
day of our frtedoffl and independence; The
dinner will be ou the table at half part three
o'clock.
The members of tfce other States Societies of
the Cincinnati and the officers of the American
army, who may be in U is city on ttst day, in
particularly invited to joi.i this State SoeKty in
commemoration of t,he day.
B) order of the ftapding committee.
R. PORTtR, Secretary.
June nd, 1797.
, Young Hyson Tea.
4® chests ot'i superior quality—Alio,
:oo Jo.of Hyson,
Imported in the Woodrtp Sims, and for sale by
the fubferibers, corner of Second and Pisa
street.
C. Haigbt.
June 21. eo'.f
Befc Engl ifb Crown Window Glass.
A well assorted Invoiceofthe b?ft Engliih Crovfn
Window Glass, cfth« following sizes;
10 by 8
11 by 9
14 by ll 212 BOjE1 '
16 by 12
19 by 14
Likcwife frelh Rice, h'gn proof Brandy, befl
mess Beef, in half barrels.
Sail Cloth, No. I. to S.
Sherry Wine.
A few hundred weight of excellent Dutch PiAol
and Rifle Gun Powder—and,
Thirty Boxes Chocolate.
For Sale by," .
Samuel Brccl, fun.
June at. eoiat.
Bush Hill.
June 21ft, 1797.
'"r'HE Public are refpe&fully informed that the
I. Evenings Amulcment of the Gardens for this"
week are arranged for
THIS PRESENT EVENING, Wed
nesday, June 21ft,
and Friday, j.^d.
N B. They are also requested to take notice
that the Tavern and Gardens will be publicly open
for general admillien oa Tuesdays, Thursdays and
Saturdays.
-Sundays admittance, one quarter of a dol
lar, which entitles the person to its value in wines,
liquors or refrefhments.
gy Dinners drefs'd for parti»s ac a day's notice
djt
GABRIEL DECOMBAZ,
BOOKSELLER & STATIONER,
Eegs leave to inform the public that he hat re*
moved his Shop to AO. 32* South ThirdJlrett,
AND HAS JUST PUBLISHED,
( Neatly bound and lettered, price 2-dolf. 15 cts.)
No, 48, North Third Street,
Ihe Adventures of Telcmachus.
French and English, 2 vols. umd.
AMONG the books which daily fall into the
hands of the youth of both fcxes, none
have a higher claim to their attentionthan Telc
machus. The in-lt interelling lei Tons are here
conveyed in the jehiclp of ail interelling Poem,
replete with the fineft touches cf the true pa
thetic, and embelllhed with all the graces of a
beautiful style. The fatal effeils of indulging
the passions are exemplified in the molt linking
manner j and the happiness attending inno
cence and viitue paiiited in the liveliell colours.
Whatever can incite to virtue or deter from
vice ; whatever can enlighten the utlderftand
ing, charm the imagination, and improve the
heart, it to be found in this interelling work.
THE NAVAL GAZETTEER;
Being a complete Geographical Dictionary,
containing a full and accurate account, alpha
betically arranged, of all the countries and ill
anils in the known world ; Jhowing their lati
ude, foundings, and stations for anchorage ;
with a particular description of the feveralßays,
Capes, Channels, Coves, Creeks', Currents,
Gulfs, Harbours, Havens, Lakes, Ocean,, Ra
ces, Rivers, Roads, Rocks, Sands, Shoals,
Sounds, Straits, Tides, Variation of the Com
pass &c. Together with a particular relation
of the shape and appearance at sea, of the fevo
ral Headlands, Mthmufcs, Peninsulas, Points,
Promontories, and whatever is of ufc or impor
tance to the Mailer, Pi'ot, Commander, or
Seaman of any fbip or veflel, in llavigatiug the
watery element.
Also Comprehending
Ample Direi3ion. for failing into or out of the
different P<£ts, Straiu, and Harbour*-el' the
four quarters of the world ; and for avoiding
dangers on the viriotM and extended in
which more than twelve thousand diflinifl 112 me«
of places, aie treated of and explained. With
a correal set of Charts, 2 vols. Bvo. price 6 doll.
By the Rev. JOHN MALHAM,
This has been pronounced' the inoft ufe
ful and the cheapeil book pnblilhed in America.
June 11. rftf
' C O I 1 O iM.
> A few bales jnft arrived, for sale by
JOHN CLARK,
No. 5 J North Water Street.
Ju :e to- cott.Propofais
for carrying MA IL S cftbe
United States on the following
Pojl Roads, v>ill be received
at the General Pojl-Office, in
Philadelphia, until the 3 \jl
day qf July next, incluftvc.
MAINE.
1. Fiom Brewer's or Scoodie by Maehias, Chan
dler'* river and Columbia, to Narraguagusoace
a week.
Leave Brewer's every Saturday at 2 P M, and
ariivc at Narraguagus Tuvtday \ y 6 p
m—-.Returning) leave Narraguagtu every Wednes
day at 6 a m, and arrive at Brewer's the r.ext Sa
tnrday by 10 a m.
2. FromNarrnguagU9 by Gouldfborough, Sulli-
Vati,Trenton, Bhiehill, Cuftine, Penobfcnt, Bucki
ton, Frankfort, Profpedt and Belfaft to Duck-
Trap once a week.
Leavi Narraguagus every Wednesday by 6 a
m. and arrive at Duck Trap the next Saturday by
. ic am. Returning. Leave Duck Trap every Sa
turday by li* m and arrive at Narraguagus the
next Tuesday by 6 p m.
3. From Duck Trap by Camden, Ihomafton,
Warren, Waldoborough, Newcastle, Wifcaffet,
Bath, Brunfwick, Frceport and North Yarmouth
to Portland once a week.
LfcLvevDuck Trap ejery Saturday by 2 p m, and
arrive ct Portland thv* next Tuesday by 6 v m. Re*
turning. Leave Port bad every Wednesday by 6
a M,an«l arrive at Duck Trap the i>ext Saturday by
IO A As.
4. From Portland by Welles and
Ycrk,to Portfm®uth.
April 15/0 Oflober 15. Leave Portland every
Monday, Wednesday and Friday by 6 a m, and ar
rive at Portfmeuth the fame
ing. Leave Portfrnouth every Monday, Wednes
day and Friday at 9 p m, and arrive at Portland on
the next day by 6. p m.
Ofluler 15 to April 15. T.eave Portland every
Monday and Thursday at 6 a m, and arrive at
Portfrnouth on Tuesday and Friday by 10 a m. Rc j
turning. Leave Portfrnouth every Tuesday and j
Friday at 1 p m, and arrive at Portland every
Wednesday and Saturday at 5 p m.
5. From Portland by North-Yarmouth, Free
pert, Brunfwick, Bath, WifcaiTct, Dresden, Pittf
ton a»id Hnllowell Hook to Hallowcll court house,
once a week.
Leave Portland every Friday at 8 A. M,and ar
rive at Hallowell court-house the next Saturday by
7 P M. Returning. Leave Hallowcll court-house
every Wednesday by 5 A M, and arrive at Port
land on Thursday by 6 P M.
6. From Wifcaffet by Dresden, Pittfton, Hallo
well Hook, Hallowell court-house, Winthrop*
Monmouth, Green, New-Gloucester and Gray to
Portland Once a week.
Leave Portland every Monday by 6 A M, and
arrive at Wifcaffet on Wednesday noon. Return
ing. Leave Wifcafiet on Wedneftiayat 3 P M, and
ferriveac Poitland onFriday by 6 P M.
7. From Hallowell Hook by ValTalboroogh,
Fort Halifax, Winflow, Fairfield and Canaan to
Nqrridgewok once a week.
i.eave Hallowell Hook every Wednesday at 11
A M, and arrive at Norridgewock on Thurlday
by 6 P M. Returning. Leave Norndgewcck on
Monday at 2 P M, and arrive at Hallowell Hook
On Tuesday by 6 P M.
8- From Hallowell Hook to Farmington on Safi
dy river once in two weeks.
Leave Hallowell Hook every other Wednesday
by 8 A M, and arrive at Farmington by 6 P M.
Returning. Leave Farmington every other Thurs
day at 8 A M, and arrive at Hallowell Hook by 6
PM*
9. From Portland by Falmcyth, Gorham, Bux
ton, Standifh, Limerick, Parfonfield, Shapleigh
and Lebanon toJ|l3crwick, once in two weeks.
Leave Portland every other Monday at 8 A M,
and arrive at Berwick on Wednesday by noon.
Leave Berwick every other Wednesday at 2 P
M, and arrive at Portland on Friday by 6 P M.
10. From Standifh by Flinftown, Frybutg aca
demy,Conway and Tamworth to Sandwich in New
H?jnpfbire once in two week?.
Leave Standifh every other Tuesday by 8 A M,
and arrive 41 Sandwich on Wednesday by 6 PM. Re
turning Leave Sandwich every other Thursday at
8 A M, and arrive at Standifh on Friday by 6
P M.
11. From WeHs by Waterbcro', Sanford, Dotigh
ty's Falls, Berwick and Dover, to Portfrnouth once
a week.
Leave Wells every Tu fdayfcby 6 A M, and ar
rive at Portfrnouth on Wednesday by ic A M. Re-,
turning. Leave Portfrnouth every Wednesday by
2P M, and arrive at Wells acxt Thursday by i
PM.
NEW-HAMPSHIRE.
12. From Portfrnouth by Dover, R ©chefter and
MOultonbofough to Plymouth, returning by New-
Hamptcn, Meredith, Gilnuntown, Nottingham
awd Durham to Portfrnouth once in two weeks.
Leave Portfrnouth every other by 8
A M, and arrive at Plymouth the next Friday by 6
PM. Returning. Receive the maij at Plymouth
every other Saturday by 8 A M, and return to
Portfrnouth the next Tuesday by 4 P M.
Ncte. " The pt ft is to go aud return on this route
alternately."
13- From Portfrnouth bf Exeter, Chester, Lon
donderry, Amherft, Peterborough and Marlbo
rough to Keene, once a week.
Leave Portfrnouth every Thursday by 2 A M,
arrive at Exeter by one P M, at Ch«fter by 6 P M,
and at Keene on Saturday by 4 P M Returning.
Leave Keene every Monday by 8 A M, ajrive at
Chester on Tuesday by 4 P M, at Exeter on Wed
nesday by 9 A M, and at Portfrnouth by%s P M.
14. From Concord by Plymouth to Haverhill,
once a week.
Leave Concord every Monday by 6 A M, arrive
at Plymouth on Tuesday by 3 P M, and at Haver
hill on Wednesday by 4 P M. Returning. Leave
Haverhill every Thursday by 8 A M, arrive at
Plymouth on Friday by 9 A M, and at Concord on
Saturday by 4 PM.
15. From Fxetcrto Hampton Falls, three times
a week from April 15 to Odober 15; and twice a
week from O&ober 15 to April ij.
Leave Hampton falls in one hour after the arriv
al after the arrival of the mail from Boston, and
deliver it at Exeter in two hours, remain at Exeter
A fwo hcyrs and return to Hampton Falls in fix
hcursfrom the time of leaving it.
MASSACHUSETTS.
16. From Newburyport, Haverhill, Kingston,
Elcter, New Market and Durham to* Dover once
a week.
Lerve Newburyport every Monday by 10 A M, '
arrive at Dover on Wednesday by noon. Return- '
ing. Leave Dover on Wednesday by 3 P M, and '
arrive at Ncwohryport on Friday by M.
17. From Salem to Gloucester once a wtek. N
Olowcefter every Wednesday by 7 A M,
and arrive at Salem by 11 AM. Retkrtin*. Leave '
2>alcm every Wedßefday by 1P M, and arrive at 0
Giouceflcr by 6 P M. , J
Note. Should this mail be carried in a ft.'ge it Is
to be carried a«- oftra as the stage runs, the hours
desired to be ftatcd in the propoials. P
18. From Salem to Marblehead three times a w
week. Leave SaKin every Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday immediately after the arrival of the n ,
.mail from Button, ar.d deliver it at Marblchead in j,
one hour and a half, leave MarHchead in one M
Lour and a half Lbd return to aUm in two houfs f
yj From Loikn by Aadover, Haves hili and p<
Ckcftcif io CbnconJ in New ptamLfl;ii*e ti'nce a
week.
9 Leave ConcorcUevery Monday by 6A M, arii ve
' at Chester by a P M, and arrt+<* at Boston on
f ruJib.y by 4 I'M. Returning;, Leave Boston every
1 Friday by 9A M, arrive at Chester on Saturday by
i 11 AM, and arrive at Concord on Saturday by 6
PM.
20. Frfmi Boston by Ceneoni, Laneafter, Leo-
minfler and Afhburnhara to Marlborough, Keene
and Walpolc iji New Harnpfhire.
Leave Boil on everyWednefday and Saturday by
6 A .\l, and arrive at LcomintUr by 7 PM.
Leave I.eoniinfttV every Thursday by 6 A M,
arrive atKcmc by 9 PM, «3c ut Walpoh: onFriday by
1. i*>AM fit turning. Leave Walpole «vexy Satur
e djy or Sunday by 5 A M, arrive at Keene by 9
AM, and at in the evening. Leave
d Ltominfter every Monday and Thursday by 6
p am and arrive at Boston by 6P m.
t- 21. From Bofioa by Quincey, Hingham, Hano
i- ver, Plymouth, Sandwich, Barnftable, Yarmouth,
Dennis, Hai with and Chatham to Truro once a
i- week.
f- Leave Boston every Thursday by 3P m, arrive
at Sandwich on Friday by 6 p m, and at Triiro the
next Sunday by 6a m. Returning. Leave Truro
a every Monday by 8 a m, arrive at Sandwich on
,y : Tuesday by 7 p M, and at Boston on Thursday by
X- IO A M.
te 22. From Sandwich by Falmouth and Holmes
Hole to Edgartown once a week
n, Leave Sandwich every Saturday by 1p m, and
t, arrive at Edgarton on Monday by 11 a m. Return
h j ifg- Leave Edgarton in Monday by 2 p m, and
arrive atSandwich on Tuesday by noon,
d 23. From Boston by Sharon, Mansfield, Norton
siftd Taunton to Newport once a we. k.
6 Leave Boston every Monday by 6 am, and ar
y rive at Newport by 6pm, on Tuesday. Returning.
Leave Newport every Wednesday by 8 a m, and
d arrive at Boston on 1 hurfday by 6 pm.
24. From Boston by Charleston, Medford, Wo
y 1 burn, Billerica, Chelmsford and Tyngborocgh to
. ! Amherft once a week.
Leave Boston every Thursday by 10 a m, an«J
- ; arrive at Amherft the next Saturday iioon. Ra
ti taming. Leave Amherft every Monday noon, and
arrive at Bolton on Wednesday by 3 pm.
y 25. From Boston by Randolph,
t Raynham and Taunton to New Bedford.
From May 1 to November 1. Leave Boston every
J Monday, wednesday and Friday at 10 pm, arrive at
y Taunton the next day by 11 a M,and at New Bed
ford by 2 p m. Returning. Leave New Bedford
- every Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday by io p m,
- arrive at Taunton the next day by 11 a m, and at
-, Boston by 8p m
From November Ito May 1. Leave Boston eve
- ry wednesday and Friday at 9 a m, arrive at Taun
y ton by 8P m, and at New Bedford on Thursday &
e Saturday by 2 p m. Returning. Leave New
- Bedford every Monday and wednesday by 9 a m. 1
arrive at Taunton by 8 pm, -and at Boston on
- Tuesday and Thursday by 7p m.
* 26. From New Bedford to Nantucket, twice a
3 _week from November Ito May 1. Leave New
Bedford every Friday and Monday by 6 a m, ar
-1 rive at Nantucket in the evening. Leave Nantuc
- ket every Saturday and Tuesday by 10 a m, and
1 arrive at New Bedford in the evening.
From May Ito November 1. Leave New Bed
, ford every Monday, wednesday and Friday by 10
> am, and arrive at Nantucket in the evening. Re
turning. Leave Nantucket every Tuc day, Thurf
i duy and Saturday at 8 a M,and arrive at New Bed
r ford in the evening; winds and tide permitting.
1 27. From Taunton by Dighton and Semerfetto
warren once a week.
I.eave Taunton every wednesday by 5 a m, and
arrive at warren by 10 a m. Leave warren by 1
p m, and arrive at Taunton by 6 r m. .
28. From Boston byDedham, Providence, Plain
. field, Norwich, New London, Saybrook, Killing
worth, Guilford and New Haven to New York
1 three times a week.
From May 1 to November 1. Leave Boston eve
ry Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by 10 a m,
arrive at Providence by 6 p m, anrive at Norwich
on wednesday, Friday and Monday by noon, at
' New London by 3p m, arrive at New Haven on
Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at Stan
ford by 9 p m, and at New York on Friday, Mon
day and wednesday by noon. Returning. Leave
New York every Tuelday, Thursday and Saturday
by 10 a m, arrive at. New Haven on wednesday,
Friday and Monday by 2 p m, at Norwich on
1 hurfday, Saturday and Tuesday by noon, at Pro
vidence by 8 p m, and'at Boston oa Friday, Mon
day and wednesday by 1 p m.
November Ito May 1. Leave Boston every
TuefJay, Thursday and Saturday by 9 a M, ar
rive at providence the next days by 9 a m, at New
London every Thursday, Saturday and Tues
day by noon, at New Haven on Friday, Monday
and wednesday by 3 p m, at Stratford by S p m,
and arrive at New York on Monday, wednesday
and Friday by iiam. Returning. Leave New
York every Saturday, Tuesday and Thursday by 11
a m, arrive at Stratford the next days by 8 r m, at
New Haven on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday
by 9 a m, at New London on wednesday, Friday
and-Monday by 3 p m, at providence, Tkurfday,
Saturday and Tuesday by 4 p m, at Boston oh Fri
day, Monday and wednesday by 3 pm.
29. From Boston by Dedham, Mendon, pomfret
and Tollan'd to Hartford once a week.
Leave Boston every Thursday by 7 a- m , arrjve
at Hartford the next Saturday by 6 pm. Return
ing. Leave Hartford every Monday by 8 A M,
and arrive at Boston on wednesday by 5 p m.
30. From New Bedford to Newport once a
week.
Lc.ve New Bedford every Thursday by 6 a m,
and arrive at Newport by 4p m. Leave Newport
every Friday by 8 a arrive at New Bedfori
by 5 p m.
31. From Worcafter by Rutland, Pcterfham and
Northfield to Brattleborough once a Week.
Leave worepfter every Tuesday by 1 p m. and
arrive at Brattleborough on wednesday by 6 p m.
Returning. Leave Brattleborough every Thurs
day by 6 a m, and arrive at worcester on Friday
noon.
32. From Breokfield by Bclchertown, North
ampton, worthington,rittsfield and New Lebanon
to Albany
Leave Brookfield #»very Tuesday and Friday by
9a m, arrive at Northampton by 6p m. Leave
Northampton every wednesday and Saturday at 5 1
a m, arrive at pittsfield by I P M, and at Albany
on Thursday and Monday by 7 p m. Returniug
Lea>c Albany every wednesday and Saturday at 5 1
a m, arrive at pitufield by 5 r m, at Northamp
ton on Thursday and Monday by 7 p m, and ar
rive at Brockfield on Friday and Tuesday by 4
P M.
33. From Springfield fey Weftfield and Stock- ,
bridge to Kinderhpok once a week. 1
May Iro November 1. Leave Springfield eVe- 4
r> Tuesday by 3 p M, arrive at Kinderhftok on
Thursday by 6 P M. Returning. Leave Kinder
hock every Friday by 9 a m, arrive a/ Stock- (
bridge Uy 3p m. Leave Stockbridge on Monday
by 6 am, and arrive at Springfield by 7 p m . 1
November I to May I. Leave Springfield evory
wednesday at 6a m, and arrive at Kinderhook on F
1 hurfday by 2r m. Returning. Leave Kiiider
i 00k on Thursday by 4r m, arrive at Stockbridge ?
on Friday noon Leave Stockbridge every Tuef- *
day at 6a m, awd arrive at Springfield by 7 pm. /
33 . From Sufßeid by Weft Sp- ingfield, Northamp
ton, Greenfield, BrattJeborough, Wcftrniofter, Wal fl
pole, Clurlcftowu and Wiodlor to Hanover twice a
werk. a
Leavf SufTi-Id every Tuesday and Fridav at am, J 1
niveat Northampton by 1 r M,at Walpoleon Wed- 0
nefday and Saturday by 5 p m, at Windlor on Mon
day and Thurlday by 2 r m, and at Harover by 7 r
m Returning. Leave Hanov-r every Tuesday and
Friday by 6 a m,arrive at Wir.dfor by 1 p M,at Wai-
pole cc Weircfday and Saturday by 7r m, and a 11
a on on Monda) by hoon, and
at Sufficed by 7 f m.
e 35 From lianovct by Oifurd and Haverhill, to
11 Newbury, cncea week.
Leave Hanover every Wednesday by 6 a m, arrive
j at Hat'crhiil by 4 pm, and at Newbury by 5 p m.
Returning. Leave Newbury every Thursday by 6 a
m. arrive at Haverhill by 8a m, and at Hanover by
6 rM.
Vt RMONT.
y .36. From Windsor, by Rovalfton, Randolph, Wil
' liamflon and Montpelier to Burlington once in two
weeks.
] Leave WiniCer every other Thursday by 6a m,
and arrive at Bur.'ingtonthe next Saturday by 6 p u.
Returning. Leave Burlington every other Monday
by 6 A m, and arrive at Windior on Wednesday by 6
5 <■ m
J 37. From Windsor to Ru"land or.eea week.
Leave Riitlsnd every Monday by 7 am, and arrive
" *t Windsor 011 Tuesday by 6 pm. Returning.
Leave Windsor every Wednesday by 6 am, and ar-
rive at Rutland on Thursday by 6 p m.
38. From Burlincrton by Vergenncs and Middle
e buiy to Rutland once a week.
g Leave Burlington every Thursday by 8a m, and
0 anive at Rutland on Saturday by 6p m. Returning.
n Leave Rutland every Monday by 8a m. and arrive at
y Burlington on Wednesday noon.
39. Froipi Rutland by M<mchcfter, Benningtoh,
s Lai.lingburg and Troy to Albany.
Leave Rutland everv Monday at 8 a M,and arrive
j at Albany the next Wednesday by 6p m. Return
ing. Leave Albany every Thurldav by 8a m, and
" arrive at Bennington by 7p w. Leave Bennington
on Friday by 8 a m, and arrive at Rutland on Satur
day by 7 p m
ti
RHODE-ISLAND.
40. From Providence by Briitol and Warren to
Newport.
Leave Providence every "Monday, Wednesday and
Friday by 7 a m, and arrive at Nctoport the fanje
- days bv jp m. Returning. Leave- Newport every
a Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday by 8 am, and ar«
rive at Providence by 4 p m.
1 41. From Providence by East Greenwich, New
- poit, South Kingston, Wcfterty and Stonington Point
] to New London once a week.
Leave Providence every Tuesday by 8 a pi, and
arrive at Newport by 6 pm, leave Newport every
Wednesday by 6 a m, and arrive at New London on
Thursday by r.oon. Returning. Leave New Lon
t don on Thursday by 3r m, and arrive at Newport on
Friday by 6 p m, leave Newport on Monday by 7 a
j M, and arrive at Prcfvidcnce by 5p m.
: CONNECTICUT.
42. From Hartford by Windham to Norwich
once a week.
Leave Hartford every Tuesday by 6 a m, and ar
: rive at Norwich by 7p m. Returning. Leave Nor-
T wich every Monday by 6a m, and arrive at Hartford
by 7 p m.
j 43 From Hartford by Middletown, Modus Land
ing and Colchester to New-London, once a week.
Leave Hartford every Tuesday at 1 p m, and arrive
| at New London on Wednesday by 7p m. Return
ing. Leave New London every Thursday by 11 a
m, and arrive at Hartford on Friday by 7 p m.
44. From Hartford by New Hartiord, Canaan,
' Sheffield and Hillfdale to Hudson onee a week
Leave Hartford eveiy Monday at 2 p m, and arrive
• at Hudson on Wednesday by 11 am. Returning.
» Leave Hudson every Wednesday at 2r m, and arrive
at Hartford on Friday by 11 AM.
45. From Hartfoid by Litchfield, New Milford,
Newtown, Daubury and Ridgefield to New York
once a week.
Leave Hartford every Monday by t® a m, arrive at
Litchfield by 7 P M, at New Milford on Tuesday by
ham, and at New York on Thursday by 8 am.
Returning. Leave New Yoik every Thursday by 4
p M, arrive at New Milford on Saturday noon, at
Litchfield by 7 p m, and at Hartford on Monday by
8 am.
46. From New-Haven by Derby, Southbury,
Woodbury, Bethlem, Litchfield and Gofhen, to Ca
naan, once a week.
Leave Canaan every Monday noon, arrive at Litch
field by 7 £ m, and at New Haven on Wednesday by
10 am. Leave New Haven every Wednesday by a
p m, arrive at Litchfield on Thursday noon, and at
Canaan by 7 r m.
47. From New York by White Plains, Bedford,
Fredericktown, Dover, Shar n, Shefheld, Great
Barrington, Stockbridge, Pittsficld and Williamfton
to Bennington
Leave New York every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday at 5 A M, the next Wednesday, Friday and
Monday at 6 PM. Returning. Leave Bennington
every Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday by 5 A M,
and arrive at New V ork the next Saturday, Tuesday
and Thursday by 6 P M.
If ttfie stages run but once a week on this route'the
mail isto leave New York every Monday at 5 A M,
arrive at Bennington on Wednesday by 6 P M. Leave
Bennington on Thursday by 5 A M, and arrive ac
New York on Saturday by 6 P M.
48. From New York by Yonkers,PecK.fkill, Fifh
kill, Poughkeepfie, Rhinebeek, Redhook, Clermont,
Hudson, Claverac and Kinderhook to Albany three
times a week.
Leave New York every Monday Wednesday and
Friday by 2 P M, arrive at Tarrytown by 8 P M
Leave Tarrytown every Tuesday, Thursday and Sa
turday at 5 A M, arriveat Poughkeepfie by 7 P M.
Leave Poughkeepfie Wednesday, Friday and Sunday
by 5A M, arriveat Kinderhook by 7 P M. Leave
Kinderhook every Thursday, Saturday and Monday,
at 5 A M, and arrive at Albany by 8A M. Return
ing. Leave Albany Thursday, Saturday and Mon
day by 3 P M, arrive at Kinderhook by 7 P M.
Leave Kinderhook Friday, Sunday and Tuesday, at
5 am, arrive at Poughkeepfie by 7 p m. Leave
Poughkeepfie Saturday, Monday and Wednesday, at
5a m, arrive at Tarrytown by 7p m. Lcave rTarry
town every Snnday, Tuesday and Thursday, at 5 a
m, arrive at New Vork at 1 i a m.
49. From Albany by Troy end Lanfingburgh, to
Salem, once a week.
Leave Albany every Tuesday at 8 a m, arrive at
Lanfiugbnrgh by 10 a m, and at Salem by 4 p m. Re
turning. Leave Salem every Monday, by 8a m, and
arrive at Albany by 5 p m.
50. From Salem by Granville, Fairhaven, Ver
gennes, Bason-Harbour, Willfboro', Peru and Plattt
burgh, to Champiain-town, once in two weeks,
Leave Salem every other Wednesday by § a m, *nd
arriveat Plattfburgh thenext Sunday by 5 PM. Re
turning. Leave Plattfburgh every other Monday at 8 ]
a m, and arrive at Salem the next Friday by 4 p m.
51. From Lanfingburgh by Water ford, Stillwater,
Fort Edward, Whitehall landing and Faiihaven, to
Rutland, in Vermout.
Leave Lanfingburgh every Th;»rfday by noon, and {
arrive at Rutland thenext Satuiday by 6 p m. Re
turning. Leave Rutland every Mondav by noon,
and arrive at Lanfingburgh on Thursday by 10 am. j
52. From Albany by Schenetlady, Tripes Hill,
Cenajohany; German Flatts,Oid Fort Schuyler an 1
Whitestown to Rome. The times dejired to be fluted i:t
the proposals.
53. From Scheneftady by Balltown Springs and
Glenfb idgc ro Sar dy Hill once a week.
Leave Schenefiady every Tuesday by 6a m. and c
arrive at Sandy Hill by 4p m. Leave Sandy Mill on
Wednesday by 6 am, and arrive at Schencftady by a
4 PM. 1
54. From Tripefhill to Johnfton once a week.
Leave Tripefliill in one hour after «he mail arrives
from Albany on Tuesday, arrive at Johnfton in two
hours, flay at johnfton two hours, and return to 0
Tripefhillin two hours.
From Conajoharry by Cherry Valley to Coo- <r
ptriiown twice a week.
Leave Conajobarry every Wednesday and Satuiday ®
at 6 am, and arrive at CooperfUwn by 2 p m
Leave Cooperflown every Tuesday and Friday by 10
a m. and arrive at Conajoharry by 6 p m.
56 From Cooperftown by Butternuts sad Oxford *
to Union ooce in two weeks.
Leave Union every other Monday by 10 a m, and
arrive atCocperltown on Wednesday by 5p m. Re
turciflg. Leave Cooperftown every other Thursday
by 6 a M,aad arrive at Union on Saturday by 3 PM.
57. From Old Fort Schuyler by Cincinnati to j
Oxlcrd Academy once in two *ccks.
Leave Old For* Schuyler every other Thursday by
6a k, aud arrirc ?t Oxfard on Friday noon. Re- 2
l?ayoOx*ord every oibcr Fiiday by 2t m, j
I abA arrive at Old Fort Sckuyler on Saturday by f
P M
3 58 From Rome by * to Rotterdam once
in two weeks.
c Leave Rome every other Thurfdry by 10 a m, and
arrive at Rotterdam by 6 p Kt. Returning. Leave
* Rotterdam every other Friday by 9a M, and arrive
i at Rome by 6 PM.
£9. From Rome by Oneida, Onondaigua, Scipio
and Geneva to Kanandai»>ua onee a week.
Leave Rome every Thursday by 10 A M, and ar
rive at Kanandaigua the wext Monday by 6 A M
0 Leave Kanandaigua every M.tndav by io AM, a.sd
arriveat Rome the -next Thursday bv 8 A M
i, 60. From Kanandaigua by Haitford to Niagara
i. once in two weeks.
y Leave Kanandaigua every other Monday b/ 10 A
5 M, and ar«iv?~at Niagara the next Wednesday by 7i'
M. Returning. Leave Niagaia every other Friday
by 6 A M, and arrive at Kanandaigua the next Mon
e day by 6A M.
61. From Rhinebeek by Kingston, Shawangunk,
Wardfbridge, Golhen, Hamburg, Newtown, John
fonfburg and Hope, to Eafton, once a week.
Leave EaAon every Thursday by 3 P M, and arrive
at Rhinebeek thenext Sunday by 5P M. Returning,
d Leave Rhinebeek every Monday by 8A M, and arrive
at Eafton en Thursday by 10 A M.
62. From New York by Ha.kenfack, Paramas,
New Antrim and Chester to Goflien once a week.
, t Leave New York every Friday at 7 A M, and ar
rive at Gofhen on Saturday by 6 P M. Returning.
e Leave Gofhen every Tuesday at 6A M, and ariive at
New York on Wednesday by 6 PM.
d 63. From Fifhkill by Newburg and New Windsor
n to Golhen once a week.
Leave Fifhkill every Wednesday by 7 A M, and
arrive at Golhen by 5 P M, leave Golhen every
Tuesday at 7 A M, and arrive at Fifhkill by 5 P M.
64. From New Yark by Jamaica, Huntington,
q Stnithtown, Brookhavcn, Suffolk, Southampton &
Biidgehampton taSaghaibour once a week..
Leave New If oik every Thursday at 10 A M, and
arrive at Sagharbour the next Saturday by 6 P M.
Leave Sagharbour every Monday at 8 A M, and ar
f rive at New York on Wednesday by 5P M.
NEW-JERSEY.
t 65. From Woodbridge to Amboy three times a
week.
3 Leave Woodbridge every Monday, Wednesday ft
y Friday at 8A M, and airive at Araboy by 9 A M.
n Leave Amboy at noon and arrive at Woodbridge by
n 66 From Trenton by Allentown, Monmouth
court-houfe, Shrevifbury, Middletown Point, Spotf
wood, New Brunfwick, Somerset, New Germanton,
Pittltonand Flemington to Trenton once a week.
Leave Trentou every Tuesday by 10 A M, and re
turn to Trenton the next Tuesday by 6 A M.
h 67. From Philadelphia by'l aunlon and Atfion. to
Tuckerton once in two weeks.
Leave Philadelphia every other Wednesday by 3 !
P M, arrive at Tuckerton on Thursday by 6 P M.
1 Leave Tuckerton other Tuesday by 6A M, and
arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday by 9 A M.
68. From Philadelphia by Woodbury, Swedefbo
rough, Woodftown and Salem to Bridgetown once a
c week.
Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday afternoon by
i 3 o'clock, and arrive at Bridge own on Friday by 2
PM. Leave Bridgetown on Saturday at 8A M, and
, arrive at Philadelphia on Wednesday g* 9 M.
69- From Philadelphia byJenkintown, Plum fie id
* and Pipers by Bethlehem to Eafton once a week.
Leave Philadelphia every Wednesday by Ip A M :
: and arrive at Eafton on Thursday by 2P M. Rcturn
ing. Leave Eafton every Monday at 9 A M, and ar
, rive at Philadelphia on Tuesday by 3P M.
70. From Plumftead by Pipers and Alexandria to
Pittfton once a week.
Leave Plumftead every Thursday by 5 A M, arrive
at Pittfton by 11 A M. Leave Pittfton by 1 P M,
and arrive at Plumftead by 7 P M.
71. From Eallon to Wilkefbarre once a week.
Leave Eafton every Thursday by 3 PM, and arrive
at Wilkefbarre on Saturday noon. Returning Leave
Wiikefbarrre every Tuesday rioou, and ariive at Ea
fton every Thursday by noon.
72. From Philadelphia by Norriftown, Trap
Pottfgrove, Reading, Lebanon and to
■ Carlifie. *
O&ober 15 to ApijJ 15. Leave Philadelphia every
Tuesday and Thursday at sunset, arrive at Reading
every Thursday and Saturday at 4 PM. Leave Read
ing every Friday at 8 AM, arrive at Carlifie every
Sunday by it AM* Returning Leave Carlifie eve
ry Sunday by 2 P M, arrive at Reading on Tuesday
by 4 P M, leave Reading every Wednesday aud
Monday by 8 A M, and arrive at Philadelphia on
Thursday and Tutfday by 4 P M.
April to O&ober 15. Leave Philadelphia eve
ry Wednesday and Fiiday at 8 A M, arrive at Read
ing on Thursday and Saturday by 11 A M. Leave
Reading every Thursday noon, .and airive a: Carlifie
thenext Satuiday by 11 A M. Returning. Leave
Carlifie every Monday noon, arrive at Reading on
Tuesday by 7P M. Leave Reading every Wednes
day and Monday at 3 A M, and arrive at Philadel
phia on Thursday and Tuesday byg A M
73. From Reading by Hamburg. Sur.bury and
Northumberland to Louifburgonce a week.
Leave Reading every Eriday at 6 A M, and arrive
at Louifburg on Monday by 10 A M. Returßing.
Leave Louifburg every Tuesday noon, and arrive at
Reading on Thursday by 4 PM.
74. From Harrifbuig by Petcifburg, Millcrftown,
Thompfontown, Mifflintown, Louiftown, Hunting
don, Alexandria, Centre Furnace, Belle Fount, Milei
burg, A aronfburg, Mifflin burg, Louifburg, Northum
berland, Sunbury aud Halifax to Harrifburg once in
two weeks.
Leave Harrifburg every Saturday by 6 A M, wait
ing at each poll-office which fliall be established on
the route, two hours, aud return again to Harrifburg
the next Monday by 8 A M,
75. From Somerset by Connellfville to Union once
a week.
Leave Somerlet every Thursday by 5 A. M. arrive
at Union bj>* 4P. M, Leave Union every Fiiday by ,
8 A. M and arrive at Somerset bv 7 P. M.
76. From Pittfburg by Cannonfburg,
Weft Liberty and Wheeling, to the mouth of Fish-
ing Creek, once a week.
Leave Pittfbarg every Friday by noon, 2nd arrive
at FilhingCreck 011 Sunday by 9 A M. Returning.
Leave Fi thing Creek ev<ry Wednesday by 4 P M, 4
and arrive at Pi tfburgthe next Friday b*y 1® A M. 1
77. From Preston by Washington to Cincinnati
once a week.
Leave Preston every Friday at noon, arrive atWafh- t
ington by 8 PM, and at Cincinnati life next Monday /
noon. Returning. Leave Cincinnati every Tuesday (
at 6A M, and arrive at Washington on Wednesday z
by 5P M. Leave Washington at 9P M, and arrive c
at I'refton on Friday by u-j AM.
From Pcterfburg bv City Point to Bermuda Hund
red, three times a week.
Leave Pcterfburg every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday by 6 AM, and arrive at Hundred 1
!bylo AM. Leave Bermuda Hundred by uA M, 1
add arrive at Petcifburg by 3 PM, on the fame days. )
________ 7
KENTUCKY. 1
78. From Washington by Springfield, Bourbon,
Lexington, Frankfort aud Harrodfburg to Danville
once a week, a
Leave Washington every Saturday by 8A M, and c
arriveat Danville the next Monday by 5P M. Re
turning. Leave Danville every Tuesday by 8 A M, u
and arrive at Lexington on Wednesday noon, and at
Wafhingti-n on Thursday by 6 P M.
79. From DanvilJ< to Leu fvtlit by Bcardftown
once in two weeks
Leave Danville every other Tuesday by noon, ar-.
Yive at l-ouifville the next Thursday by 3 P J
Returning Leave Louisville every other Friday fey
6 A M, and arrive at Danville on Saturday* by 6 P M
8o From Danville by Stamford and Cumberland J
Cap to Moffat's flore in Tcnncffee once a Week# />
Leave Danvilleevery Monday at tP M, and arrive ,
at Moffat'a store the nej{t Tlu*» (day by 6P M. Leave 7
Moffat's-flore cvrfy Friday by 6 A M, aud arrive at
Danvilk-0.1 Monday by 10 A M«.
TENNESSEE.
81. From Kcoxville by South Weft Point and
Fort B'ouut and Cfiig Fort to Nashville once in two
weeks-
Leave Knoxvilie every o.her Tuefdly by 8A M»
and aVrive zt NamVille the next Monday by 9 A M.
Returning. Leava Nafhvillc every other Moud«y by
'/ 3 iifive at Kuoxville thcr.ext Saturday by'
8 PM.
c
d MARYLAND AND VIRGINIA.
e Bt. From Baltimore l>y EHieot's Lower Mills,
E Montgomery C< urt H'oufe, Chailcfburg,
Mirfdlcburg and YVanenton coCulpepei, c. h. once *
0 wecW
Leave Rjlrimnre every Monday noon, ariiveat
1 cefbilrg on Ttufday evening, and at Cu'peper Court
L House the pext Thui(day noon. Returning;. Leave
Culpeoei Court House every Fiiday noon and arrive
at Bdjiimore the next Monday by q A M.
a 83.- From Aileu'i Fresh by Ludlow's ferry to Port
Conway in Virginia once in two weeks,
* Leave Allen's Frtfli every other Mor.tlay by 6A M,
and a'rive at Port Conway by 6P M. Returning;.
V Leave Port Conway every other Tucfday by 8A M*
~ and arrive at Allen's Fresh by 7P M.
84. From Mofgantown l>y Petty John to to Clarkf-»
•' bury once in \wo weeks.
" Leave Morgantown every other Monday by 5A
M, and arrive at Clirkfburg bv 5 PM. JViuraing,
c Leave Clarksburg every other Tuesday by 8 AM, and
»' arrive at Morgantown bv 8 P Nt.
c 85. From Todds to King and Queen, c. h. t>nce a
week.
'» Leave Todds every Thursday by 0 A M, arrive a*.
King and Oueen by 11 AM Leave an3 Quec.V
at 1 P M, and arrive at Todds by 6 P M.
86. From Halifax by Danville to Cafwell court
-1 house once in two weeks.
Leave Halifax court-house every other Tuesday by
r 2 PM, arrive at Cafwell court-hou{e the next- Wei'
nefday by 6P M. Returning. Leave CafwelJ C.?i,
every other Thursday by 6 A M, and arrive at Halifax
y court-house on Friday by noon.
87. From Petcrfburgh by Suflcx court house
» and Southampton court house to South Quay, one®
* in two weeks.
j Leave Petersburg every other Wedneftlay by 6
A M and arrive at South Quay on Thursday by 6
_ P Returning. Leave South Quay every other
Monday by 6 A M and arrive at on
Tucfday by 3 P M.
a . north-Carolina, &c •
t 88. From Newbernto Beaufort and Swanfboro"
once in two weeks, the mail to go alternately,
i L>ave Newbern ev«ry other Thursday by 6 A
M, remain at each of the offices two hours, and
, return to Newbern the next
89. From Wilmington by Georgetown toiChar
} lefton, once a week.
Leave Wilmington every Monday by 6 A M
- ana arrive at Charleston the next Thursday by 10
AM. Leave Charleston every Thursday by 3 P
> arr * Ve 31 m * n g ton next Sunday by
I 90. From Norfolk by Kemnfville, Great Bridge
■ and North Weft River Bridge to Jondboro', once
in two Meeks
Leave Norfolk every other Wednesday at 9 A
; M and arrive at Jonefooro' on Thursday by 7P M
Returning. Leave Jontiboro* every other Monday
by 10 A.M and arrive at Norfolk on Tuesday by 6
, PM. 7 3
[ 9 1 • Frot" North Weft River Bridge by New Le
banon to Elizabeth city, once in two weeks.
Leave North Weft River Bridge every other
Friday by 6 A M add arrive at Elizabeth city by
6P M. Leave Elizabeth city ev_ry other Satur
day by 6 A M, and arrive at N. W. river bridge
by 6 f M. J
91. From Salem, N. C. by Bethania, Flower-
Gap Grayfoncourt-houfe and Auftinvifte to Wythe
court-house once in two weeks.
L eave Salem every other Saturday by 6 A M,
and arrive at Wythe c. h. the next Mon. by 6 p M.
Leave Wythe court-house every other Tuesday by
9 AM, and arrive it Salem the ntxt Thursday bv
6 PM.
93- From Murfreefboro' by South Quay toSuffolk
once a week.
From Murfrcefboro" every Wednesday by 6JI M,
arrive at Suffolk by 6P M. Returning. LcaveSuf
jolk every Tuesday bv 6 A M, and arrive at Murfreef
boro' PM.
94- From Fsjtctteville to Piufburg once in two
weeks.
Leave Fayet'eville every other Wednesday b) 6 A
M, aud arrive at. Pinlburg on Thursday znoAM:
Leave Hittlburg every ocher Thursday bv i PM,and ar
rive at Favetteville on Friday 6P M.
GEORGIA AND SOU TH-CARDLINA.
95. From •\u J ufta by Robinson at the White
Ponds and Gillcts mills to Coofahatcf y, o::ce a
week.
Leave Augnfta every Tuesday by 8 A M and ar
rive at C.ofahatchy on Wednesday by 7P M. Re
turning. Leave Coofahatchy every Sunday at 6 A
M and arrive a: Augusta on Monday by < P M .
96. From Georgetown to Rocky Landing in
Georgia, once in two weeks.
I.eave Georgetown every other Morday at 6'a.
M, and arrive at Rocky Landing at j PM. Re
turning. Leavi Rocky Landing every other Tues
day by 6 A M and arrive at Georgetown by 6FM.
X£lf JERSEY. •
67. From Newr.wnry Hacketftown, Marriftown
and Chatham to Newaik, and from JScwa k back by
Chatham, Morriftown, Booneton, Rockaway and
Sparrfi to Newtown, once a week.
Leave Newtown eveiyThurlday by 4 /IMjnd ar
rive at Newark on Fi iday by 10 AM. Lcsve New
ark every Friday by 2 P M, and arrive at New;owa
on Si turday by 6 P M.
Note I. The Pojl Mafier alter the timet
/ "rri<val and departure at any time during
f the conlracliy be previonjly Jlipulating an adequate com
pensation far any extra expense that may be occafnned there
by.
Note 2. Half au lyuur Jbuil be allowed for opening
and tUfa 10 tbe lVlnilat all offices inhere no particular t'ur.e
it fpccifed.
Note 3. For every hour's delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) it arriving o)ter the times preferred in an y ct,n.
traS, tht Contraflor Jltall JorJeit one dollar, and if the de
lay continue until the d-parture ef any depending Aia.i,
[ whereby the Mails defined jar such depending Mtil, loft
a trip, on addititrtal jorjeUme oj jive hilars /halt le
incurred•
Nuts 4- Nexvfpapers as ivell ae Letters arr /. it fert
in tue Mailt ; and if uny pe>jm muting profttfuls d: net
to carry ntvifpapers »t£fr th ii thvfe an-. tycci ,n the mM t
for his own emolument, be aritj! Jiate in in: prop.fait J*.r
ivl.'ct sum he will carry it yvith that er/ttu mint aius fir
u bit sum u-ithent that Imolument,
fiotef. Shf.nld any pet fan r/taling firojnfati Afrt «*
alteration of the timet of arrival and cedar Cure mvive he
cifted, be mull Hate in lis prefofals tie alterations iicirej %
an I the difference they ■win naie in the terns of his'cm
trail. *
Nate 6. Ptrfvns mating pfeptjili are def,red to Jlate
their prices hy the year. '7,'nfe t»U cttJnta n ill receive
Heir pay quarterly, in tie mi. lis, of January, April.
July and Olhler.
Nr.!, 7 The contrails are tj he in ofitrati ji on the fit ,1
d:y "f Oflohcr next, and csHtinue'for'fiur years, until
the jirfl of OHtver 180 I—excepting ctntra£ls for the
ro-S.es No. ii, 9* to, 11, ib, JO, }l, 57, (<j, 74,
76, 77. 3;, Bi, «4 «7. 9 3 . 9'. 92, 91>~
H'hitb art to continuefor Iwo years until tL ijl 'f OilUer,
«799-
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Pojl-Mqfler General.
GeneralPuftrOfGcr, Philadelphia, ~f
Msy 27th- 1797. 5
J'jr.y i. lawtjji