ttt tof «je an»
KuM9£A 3 505 j
For SAVANNAH,
T ' he shlp
E||j Swift Packet,
■re lying at 'Vilcock's wharf;
x\ a regular trader, and well a«-
fcoiJiTOodated tor paCeogtns will&il an Satur
day Bth inft. For freight or pillage, apply to
the inafter on board, or
N. & J. Frazier,
No. 96, South Front-street.
Whn have for fa!e, received by tbe £iid fbip,
Prime Ricje in whole and half tierces.
July '• dtf
For Hamburgh',
r JIM s H I~P
PeNN S YL VAN lA,
r>Av/p Williamson, Mafler,
jf YIWG at Wiliing's wharf—(he is now ready to
-I_J tske in, and will fail in io days. For terms'
of Ireightoj passage, apply to
Gurney Smith.
June it. § I
For Sale,
Th(; fine and remarkably fall
Vkfpmn "fld Philadelphia
'/ Esther. Lbcuf 100 tons. For terms apply to
Ro/s & Sim/on.
Tune T2. dtf
The ShareKoJders
Qf the. Pennsylvania Papulation Company,
ARE requefled to meet at the Company's Of
fice, No j3. North Fourth Street, oh Saturday
the ijth tnft. at Ii o'cloik.
By order of the Board,
SOLOMON MARACHE, Sec'ry.
V jjt6t.
Bank of North America.
. ' *' 1 7ft7-
At ainjeetwgof the Dtredlors thu day,, a di
vidend of Six P|R was declared fpr the
half y,ear, whiebw ill he Pi»id to the Stock
holders or their repreftoutives, at ai>y Uw, af
ter the loth inft-
July i. d?w.
A Coachee and Chair,
For hir% or \yitbput horf^s —tiehfpiefe
corppleat.
Enquire at No- soj, An.h
July l. »t.
George Dobfon,
No. 35 South Third-Street,
HAS> imported per {hips William Penn, Star,
and Diana, from London,
5-4 Super London Chintz, elegant patterni,
Ginghams, Muflinetis and Enmities.
F<(hionable Waiftcoating, newest patterns.
Ribbands well aflorted, in small trunks
-4-4 5-4 and 6-4 India and British Book-aiuf
lins.
Fancy Cloaths and Gaflimtrs.
The whole to be disposed of cheap for.Cafh
or approved Note«of a Jhort date*
June 14, '97. d.tf.
For Sale,
"J-br cargo. of the brig Enterprise, Captain
Litrgflvn from Baurdcaux, nozo landing at
Morton't wharf t
CONSXTING oy
534 hhds. of Claret T S
217 cafe* of ditto ! 13 »
joo cases of Sweet Cjl ■§
110 pipes London proof ) « s a ntl v i = £
10 pipes of Hollandproof 5 Bit4W, JW -o
Apply to
Wharton 5s 5 Lewis,
No. 115, South Front St.
Said' Brig,
WILT- take a FREIGHT for
the Weft-Indies or Europe, fails
£t>{ faff, burthen about fifteen hun-
barrels, is in complete or
der, ap.d will be r£»dy t<x receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply a^above.
May
Health-Office, Philadelphia, -Jib June, 1797.
THE Boatjitfi Health offer to rent out the NKW
CITY HOSPITAL, usually called The IVig-
It may be occupied as a Tavern, for which there
ar« excellent accommodations. The person taking
it must be capable and willing .to a.S in the capaci
ty of a Steward; ia cafe a contageous ditcafe in
the city, should at any time render it necelTdty, to
make use o( the premises as a Hospital- It cannot
therefore be let for any limited time—and the red
frame building is to be refervrd. Proposals
jn writing will he received at this office until the
4th of July, ft sting what rent will be allowed wi
der the foregoing circumflaaces. None need apply
without being able to produce the beftrecommend
tions. JOHN MILLER, J«*.
!unc 27 Chairman of the Board of Health.
An afibrtment of Russia. Cordage,
AMONGST wbich are three cables, one of 12,
one of Id 1-2, and the other 7 1-2 inches,
and each 120 fathoms long
Bo lion Sail Duck, NoY 1.2. 3. and 4
Bourbon Cotton, of a very fupsrior quality
Ditto Coffee in bags
Isle of France Indigo
A few bales well aiforted India Muslins
Spermacasti Oil
Ditto Candles
Boston Beef, prime and mtfs
Codfifh in hogsheads and tierces
Ditto in quintals
Mackarel in barrels
Herrings in ditto
4th proof Bcandy, and
A few keg? of Lard
ALSO,
Tuft landing from on board the Active, from Ham
burgh,
leby 12, 8 by r<s, and 9 by ri (itrcian Win
do>v Glass, and ? few boxes aliened Dutch G,ai»
Wart;, for sale by
joftph Anthony 1$ Co,
June 2; lot
For Sale,
THE time ps a Mulatto Man, who has about 0
years to serve, ur.dciilansjs the care of.HotJ
es, and is a good r. ;
Incrufre of the Printer.
June 46. § IW
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING,
Be ft. Englijh Crown Window Gtafs.
A wellalTorted Invoice ofthe best Englifc Crown
Windovv Glass, of thj! fotlowinr sizes :
10 by S 1
11 by 9 J
12 by 10 I
!4 by 10 } 212 BOXES.
I<s by 12 I
19 by >l4 J
Likcvyife frefh Rice, high proof Brandy, fceft
roefs Beef, in half barrels.
Sajl Cloth, No. r. to 3.
Sherry Wine.
A few hundred weight Of excellent Du'ch Pistol
and Rifle Gun Powder—and,
Thirty Boxes Chocolate.
For Sale by,
Samuel PS eck, Jun.
' No. 89, Sonth Third-Jlrcet.
coiot.
' N O T I C E.
THE fubferiber havjngfent by the (hip Nancy,
Capt. Perry, the following certificates of the
United States bank flock, to wit :
No, 26,005, to 16,014, nir.lufive, for three
shares eaclv—and the said vessel having been cap
tured on her intended voyage to England, which
will most probably occasion the loss of the said
j certificates, gives this public notice,
That he shaH apply at the proper offices for a re
newal of thecu, and that means have been taken
to prevent any ijnpropcr ttan.T'er.
; i Henry Philips,
No. I South Front-flceet.
June 1. 3«w6w
post-office.
Philadelphia, 6th July, '97.
THE mail for New L.ajlle, Cantix/fH's bridge,
' Duck Creek cross 1 oads, Dovir,. Frtderica, Mil
ford, George Toewi (in the pleue of ClizuesJ and
Dagffrormtgb, in Geltwiare ; Trap and Stiovi
hili, in Maryland ; Horn Tozttn, Accomack G
:H. and Nortk/amptri'i £■ H in. Virginia ; *~ill
|be closed every Monday, Wed'-efday, a,ad Friday,
' at fun set. ißt
I A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST 4 Isi iyuof>
Gin, Qf 4th prqvf, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in HbAs
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozep each
Glass tumblers, io pints and half-pint*
Window Glass, in boxes, of <J'f!ere;iri.i*es
Hazleaxts, inficki
Wbitiog }
& Spanifb Bifowj) J.
For Sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 £.
Rofs & Simfon,
I 1/ *
Havc. far Sa/t,
A SUAHTI 1 Y Of PR I
St. Dooiingo Cotton,
Superior Old Liftxja PSpes,
'l'enerifte Wine,
In Madeira Caiku
A few Quarter Chests belt
Frefb Hyson ai\d ) T|;K
HjrfonSkin \
Alufeovado Sugars in Hogfheadt, and
Codec in Tierces
Alar.ch J. ||tf
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL S; Cq.
No 40 South Second street,
(jPrice 31 Cents]
A View of-the- Qauf'es and Gonfequen
ces of the prefer,t War with Finance.
By the Honorable Thomas
May i$ $
■>— —4—
GABRIEL DECOMBAZ,
BOOkSELLER & STATIONER,
Segt leave to inform the public that he has re*
moved bis Shop to Ao. 32, South Thirdfireet,
AND HAS JUST PUBLISHED,
( Neatly bound and lettered, ptice 2 dola. 25 eta.)
Ibe Adventures of Tel-emachus.
French and English, 2 vols. I2tn.i.
AMONG the books which daily fail i»to the
hands of the yeuth of both sexes, none
have a high.er claim to their attention than Tele
machvs. The malt intercity fig leffqns are. here 1
Conveyed in the vehicle of an intertfting Pocrt».l
repletfwith the fincft touches of tht irue pa
thetic, and embellfhed with all the graces of a
beautiful style. The fatal effedts of indulging
the paflionsare exemplified in the most finking
maiWr ; and the hap.phiefs atte iding inno
cence and virtue painted in the liveliest colours.
Whatever can incite to virtue or deter from
vice; whatever can enlighten the understand
ing, charm the imagination, and improve the
heart, is to be found in this interefling work.
THE NAVALTGAZET-TEER ;
Being a complete Geographical Dictionary,
containing a full and accurate accpunj, alpha
betically arranged., of all the ccymtties and ifl
auds in the known world ; fhowjng; their lati
ude, foundings, and stations for anchorage ;
with a particular description of the feveralßays,
Capes, ChanneU, Coves, Creeks, Currents,
Gulfs; Harbours, Havens, Oceans, Ra
ces, Rivers, Road 3, Rocks, Sands. ShoaU,
Sounds) Straits, Tides, Variation of tbe Com
pafr, &c. Together with a particular relation
ps the shape and appearance at sea, of the fevo
ral Headlandi, Iflhmofes, PeninsUlas, Points,
Fromontories, and whateveris of use or impor
tance to the MafWr, Pilot, Commander, or
Seaman of any fbipor vessel, in navigating the
watery ei?pier)t.
Alfy Cwnprchend'tr.g
Ample foe tailing into or out of the
different Ports, Strai(y, and Harbours »f the
four quarters of the world ; and for avoiding
dangers on the various and extended coafta ; in
which more than twelvethoufand diftimfl names
of places, are treated and explained. With
a correft fct of Charts, 1 vols. Bvo. price 6 dols.
By the Rev. JOHN MALi-JAM,
Jjf- This has beep pronounced themqftuf? :
ful and the chc.ipaft bonk pvh!ilh«d in imerica.
June 21. dtf
By John Fenno, N O, i i rjf Cbejnut Street
The ComniiiiiiKicrs
carrying into effert the fixtii iru.rle of the
X treaty of amity,caiiim>'rci au'd ti.»vi,:vjlGU, con
cluded between h£sErit;nn/£tliajtlty irvl llieUnkcd
States of America, the' 1 Qfl. day oi
I794 n haviug this day cooititute-i »v.p ~board.,
pursuant and agrrcably to the fdu\ «f«tfy,
by givt jiqtice, t'«at tbey areicscy to prcjted to
bu£ri.-!s accordingly mud they '-'ttire lhac all claim',
un.der the said arricle (which so far as the de- 1
fcrii.es the cases thereby provided for, is hereunto
amiEjtd) may be lodged with their Secretary with
out delay.
They further defirethat allfuch claims may not '
only state in what manner the fcyeral caies come |
within tbe description' (it the said artide, but also
fpecidily set forth .hf; nature of the evidence by
which the claimants refpeSively undertake tsfub
ftantiate the fame.
Ex'-radt from the said article,
" Whereas if is alledgcd by divers British mer
" chants, and ethers his majj'n's (übjefis, that
" debts to a confid.rable amount, which were bona
•' fide contracted, before the peace, still remain
j" owing to them by citizens or inhabitants of the
" United States; and that by the operation of va
" rioua lawful impediments, since the peace, not
" only tbe full recovery of the said debts has been
" delayed, but also the value and security thereof
" have been in feversl instances impaired and less
' " ened, so that by tbe ordinary course of judicial
" proceedings, the Britiib creditors cannot now
" obtain and actually have and receive full and
'• adequate compensation for tbe losses and datjia
" ges which tney have thereby fuf.ained: It is a
" gfecd that in all such cases where full compenfa
" tion for such loflcs and damages cannot for what
" ever reason be afluilly obtained, had and recei
" ved by the said creditors in the ordinary cout ij
" of julcice, the United States will make fuU and
" complete cornpenfatiori for the fitnc to the laid
" crodiiors ' but it is diftintftly understood, that
" this provision is to extend to such lf«SIe« only as
" have been occafior.td b,y the Ivwful impediments
'• aiortfaid, and is not to extend to lofTo occasion
" ed by such iufolvency of the debtors or other
" ciufjs, as would equally have operated to pro
" duce such loss, if the said impediments had not
" existed ; nor to such lefies or damages as have
" beep occasioned by tlie nianifeft delay, ornegli
'■ beuee, or wilful omiifion of the claimant."
By order rf tbe Board,
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secretary.
Philadelphia, Commissioners' Office,
No. 3 fouthSixth-ftreet, May 29, •
*797• J fy— §tm
I *M£ i l.'iisCK I BER having brcn appointed by
X- the Envoy lixtraordisaiy and Mioiller Pleni
potentiary of his Britannic Majetly, General Agent
tor affiftiug British creditors, and such particular a
gents as they mey fjpecially authorize, in prosecuting
their claims b:fore the csmmilEoners for carrying in
to efifefl the fiicth article of the Treaty of Amity, Cotn
mcrce avi-NviigatiOn between his Hpj sty and
the. United States of America, hereby gives ndiice thtt
he has opened his office at his house the south call
corner of Chefnut and nllb ft/ecu, Philadelphia,
where he is ready to receive >ll claims or infLiuftions.
for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the purpose of bringing forward the fame agree
ably so the rules and onler* which the board may
think proper :o ,f,cfcribe.
And ai it w'll be tor the. inwelt,of all
that the feverat claims be so Itated, and fupport
cH, as to preveat the delay which would aiife from
the-ne«Hty of obtaining turtber information, or id
diiional m» l erial»iffom perlont adittance,
the general "gem thinln i,t his doty to add, (for the
direction chiefly qf those, who, not having employ
ed particular ageois, may leave the prolecuiion of
their clsims te hu charge and management) that all
such e'airns ?ugbt in pai titular to f« forth—
id. The proper deferip,ion and fitnation of the
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, refpeft
ivsiy.
■ad. The dale or nature of the original contract or
debt.
3J. When, in what manner, and to whaLextent,
tbe creditor or claimant v/ss prevented 01 impede/1,
by ihe provision, operation or detett ol law, the
di nfiqtli and praflice of courts, or rpftiainl <" a/<-
cufion.'from lecoveiing payment of tie debt in
que (lion.
41b The loss and damage incurred or fufla'tned,
in ( uifcqueiicc of such impediments, vrhetber the
fame may have aiifen ltom the ipCalveney,
fituatton, or death of tile debtor, the l.ifs of legai
remedy from laple of time, or other impairisg
the value and security ol ibedebt, which would not
luve so operated ii such impediments bad notexifled.
And sth The particular grounds and rcafous oi|
which the claiarttrt maintains, in the teim, of Ine
treaty, that " by the ordinary course of judicial pro
ings, the creditor cannot now obtain and actually
have and receive full and adequate coinpenfatior." for
the iolfes and damages so fulUmed.
The general agent thinks it his duty further to fug
gefl that the several claims ought to be accompanied
and supported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and regularly attefled, both as to the er.illence
of the debts Cisirtied, and such other circutnlhnccs
as may be within their own knowledge refpeflively.
Aiid wherever the claimants in Hating the natuie of
their, evidence (which mull in every inflance be the
beftof which the cafe is capable) have occasion to
refer to the Icliimotiy of witnesses, it will be proper
to apprise the general agent of the names and places
of residence of such witneffei and the faftsto he ellj
bliffied by their teflimony.
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia, June Bth, 1797. dim
John Miller, jun. & Co.
Have received psr the India, Afhmead, from
Calcutta,
A well ajfortcd small Ir.vcice of
Gurrahs
Baftas
Coffees
Calico? s
Bef-gal Stripes
Laid in remarkably low, which they will fell for
caih or short credit ou very advantageous term?.
June 5. 2wfri4t
Muftcal Injlrument Manufactory,
No. 167, Arsh Street.
HARPER, harpgehords grand, portable grand,
fid>board, pier table ar.d Xqujre piano forte
maktr frora London, return? thanks to his friepds
and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
aadhopes that by his aii'lduity and atrention to ev
ery branch of his business, to merit a coctinuance
of their favors. fertes made on the neivefl
and most approved plans, with pedals, patent,
swell, and French liarp flop, which heflatteis
himfelf will ue found on trial by unprejudiced
ju'dges, to be equal if not fuperiorto any import
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inftru
msnt purchased of hiin, if sot approyedof in
twelve months, he.will exchange.
N- B. Ail kinds of Musical lnftruments made,
tuned, and repaired with the greatest accuracy,
dispatch, and on the most realbnable terms, kr
ready money only.
Second hjpd pjgjio Porte? tijtsn in e*changf.
May je.
jULT y, 1797
LANDING
From on beard fehooner Daphne, captiia
G. W. Morfc, f;om Htfpaniok,
vrt. Spgar,
'53,q00 Gufi'ee ;
FOR SALE EY ' <
F. COPPJNGER,
No. 2 21, South Front-street,
Who has also on hand,
Claret in hhds. and rases
Rice
A quantity of Brifto! Bottles
A cafe of Cambrics
Cloths and CsSbaeres.
July 5. dCt.
'FOR SALE,
BRET AGNES in cases.
German Checks ii: do.
Cambrick
Plattillas
Ozni brigs
C»old and V/at.cf js
Window Glairs io 8 ' i
G1 ass Tumbler? in cases
Li nice d Oil in cu'lks t &c. See.
George Pennock,
103, Aigh-Strat.
July 5. , > y-g.
Bank of United States.
id July, 1797.
TKE Directors have this day declared a Divi
dend of Sixteen Dollars on each fliarc for the lad
fix months ; which will be paid to the Stockhold
ers after the 13th inft.
a. SIMPSON, Cajhicr
.V . -1 ; -V"#
NOTICE.
\ NY of the citizen? who may be inclined to tc>
.rV commodate Members of Cootfrefs with beard
and lodging during the ncit femon, willpleafe
to forward tlleir address, as fpon a» poflible, to the
fubferiber, at Cobgxefs Hall'—Wba also wrfhesto
hear of some ready faroifhed lodgiugs, with the
use at a ki'chen. Likewise of a fiont drawing
room, well furnifhed, and, two good bedrooms,
with board for a fhiailf.imily, in which there will
be two Tervants. TrtOMAS CLAJiTON.
WALKER Sf KENNEDY,
No. 73, South Front Street,
Have fur Sale,
Virginia Tobacco, of tbe Richmond inflec
tion
350 bbls. Virginia Flour and Middlings
500 buftels Wheat
5 calks Ginfaog-
ALSO,
Three cases Rouens Linens,'entitled to the
drawback
zoo pieces Bandannoes, and
100 cadies India Sewing Silk.
Juneii;. tbsw""t
The Commiflloners
FOR carrying infe effeft the TWENTY-FIRST
Article of the Treaty of Friendfbip, Liihits,
and Navigation, betwean Hi 3 Catholic Majesty
and the United States of America, hereby give in
formation to all Persons therein concerned, —That,
in order to terminate a'l differences, on account of
the lasses sustained by the Citizens of the United
States, in consequence of their Vcflels and Car
gpes having brcn taken by the His Cath
olic Maiefly, during the iatc War between Spain
and Frntiti, that they are ready t« rt«eive (at their
Office, between the horrsof ten and one o'clock,
•daily) all complaints and application', anthoriied
by tin; Article, during Months
lroei the day of the date liereof, and that they have
power to examine all such persons as tome,
them, .m oath cr affirmation, toiiciiirig'the com
phttits in ijiteffion, and also to receive in evidence,
pH writt;u tjftimoi'y, auflienticated "i.n such man
lier as they fhal) think proper to require or adroit.
By Ord& of the Comrhijfinntrs,
PETER: LOHRA,
Secretary.
Q mm'fjhners Office, Ao. 109, Mu/berry
rce't Philadelphia, May lyth, 1797.
gc—64W
COLUMBIA HOUSE
BoardingSchooifor yx>ung Ladies.
MRS. GKOOMBRIDGE with much pleas
ure and refpeft, returns her sincere ac
kuowledgcm?r,t for the liberal encouragement
flie has received during four years refidenee in
Philadelphia ; and assures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to deVline her
ii hool, she has made a fupenor arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of ber
scholars. —livery branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and masters excelling in their
refpeiflive profefTipns.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June 51b, 1797- Jimftf
The fitnation is perfetflly beah't y ; and made
tpore agreeable hy an extensive girden and lot
of ground adjoiuing the house.
Nathaniel Lewis & Son,
flavefor sale at their flort, No. 70, adjoining
\ George Latimer Etf Son, Pine fired Wharf,
A Quantity ot
Madeira Wines
In pipe? l and half pipes
adeira Walnuts and Citrqp. lately imported
in the fchooiur Sincerity, Capt. Copia
Also,
2,5 Puncheons, second and th : rd proof, IVeft-
India R»m, and a few Pipes cf Brandy
They have conftaiuly on hand and ioc sale,
French Burr and Country Mill Stones of various
fizesf and a general alTortment of Bovlttug Clathi ol
the best quality, both American and Foreign ma- j
nufaAure. The former' havl'rig proved, from se
veral years experience of a number of milkrs in i
different parts of the. United States at .leafl equal,
and in many inftarices superior to the European
Cloths, we hope the Jmanufa&urer, Robert Daw
ion, will meet with liberal encouragement in this
i m}? or tart and ufeful undertaking. He has obtain
ed a patent and- exciufive right of making and.
vending Bathing, Ctp&s on his improved plan for a
number t-f years, and they are fold only by him
felf in Lancaster, state of Pt'nnlylvania, ap.d by
ihe fubferibers in Phiiadelphia.
June 14 >, 'I
For Sale,
THE time of a smart, a&ive Negre Boy, who
has about.fixtecft years serve.
Apply to the Printer.
June jo.
J % y
_Qn TQ&aDAY tvoiii.g next, the iith ,»iu
will be fold by public audticn. ;st lht- Mer*
chants CoffeeHouf'e for accomt of the con
cerned, being deposited as collateral 'fccurity.
Sundry PromifTory Notes,
Drawn by jchft NictwHon in favour 0.t 9 and
n ior'td by 534vid Alfddn. Xbe fai'J notes ar«j
ill due and have been r«?guJarlyprettied tor non
pijfrntut. i hey have been.originally giver for
a fml yai&jl>J<> foLfi-dkt atjqja- clep <if
any dsfpute or and wii! be receive i
equal to fpei:»for sa<e.s in the
Lnhd Coinpany and will of course be « g-cat
object of Speculation.
Approved eadorfed notes at Gxty days will be
received in payment,
July 6, 1797. *d 5 1
Town Lots.
A TOWN earned BEULA, one mi!: square,
<v\ being laid out on the Blacklick Creek, Sum
diet County, Pcnntylyaiiia.Lois therein ofjS feet
by 115 feet ire now ftHingat ifcN dollars
their situation in the: town to be determined Vy
ballot before the fnitcf August, and deed? for the'
lame will be d.iliverd by the lu'jferiber be lore the
fcril of Oitober nekt.
MORGAN Ji RHEES.
N'. 77, eouthSecoiiii-Ufcet,i-miadeijihia.
The purchsfersof lotiin Blula have the following
profpe&s'tif appreciating lh-_u property :
X. It is remote :rom aojr other tow.ii, and fur
rcunded by great "bodies of excellent land, capable
df producing; every kind of graixi and vegetables,
and is without doubt one tit the"belt graeuig «r;ur>-
tries is the United States.
1. In point of health the Ctoation is not exceed
ed by any on the continent.
3. Betides numerous If tings and runs, of the fin
ed quality, there is a creek fftr wltelf works (on
which mills are now building) running through the
town,
4. The public road from PtUadtlpbU to P'otf
burgh will go through it, which more level
and nearerthan any other rout, mull become uni
versally travelled : aided by the navigation of Ju-'
mata and Conemaugh, goods may be conveyed at
least a or 3 dollars per cwt. cheaper from the lor-'
mer to the latter place, than by the old road thro'
Bedford.
5. Being in the centre of a fUurilhing settle
ment, and taking in the fhortelt portage between
the eastern and western waters, it is likely to be
come a depolit lor flore», a mami*aeinring town,
and a feat of jjiftice. Besides the old settlers, up
wards of oils hundred emigrants have fettled in the
vicinity of Beula, since last Oitober, and many
more have engaged to jofn them this summer.
6. A Land-Office for lupplying ailual fettiers
with farpis to a considerable amoni t, and in vari
ous situations, will be immediately opened in the
town. The proprietors of land in the circumja
cent country are fslicited to fend theio drafts and
terms of file, or leafing, to Thomas Jonss, Sur
veyor, iu Beula, who will give leeurity for any
tiuft repefed in him: with fudh co-operating ai l,
the pjoerefsof the fettlementwi 1 be the more ra
pidly advanced and extended to distant townlhips.
7. A public library for the benefit of the settlers,
will be eftablilhed in the town, towards laying the
'foundation of which, upwards of one thousand
volumes afe already purchased and principally sent
forward.
Two hundred acre? of lathi adjoining the
town, besides lotsaiidful.fcriptioiis,wiu be ajjplicJ
to support a minified and preceptor, capable of
ttlching the ufeful and liberal arts.
9. After defraying ncceflary expentes, the mo
ney arising from the present sales will be laid out in
public buildings —A place of worfbip, fchdol
Limit and library room, are the firlt objects.
Ib. Every prolefTioual man and mechanic, on
condition ol building a house with a (lone or biick
chimney, and refitting in it, before the fiHl of No-
next, will be entitled te four lots gratis,
free fer.vei from gj»und retit- five and tec acre
out lots m.iy likewise be obtained en rcafonablff
terms.
*.* The two : central flreets in BeuTa are leo
feet wide, and the otherifeet-. Reserved fquarcs
ond other accommodations must add to the health
ard beauty of tl>c place.
julv 6. , ■ <t
boarding and Lodging
T7OR lingle <*e»tlcir.en be had at No.
114, Sixth-street, corner of Race.
Some apartments to be let at the abov® pla,ce.
J,uly 6. *it-
Juit Keceived,
From Eatavla («ia Providence)
Ijo Sacks of jata Coffee of f.rft quality
200 half fucks ("o. do.
a few Boxtsof Spices, consisting of
Nutmejra, ClovCsand itace
Fdr iale by
KILLINGS & FRANCIS,
Penrufireet.
May 30
New Landing,
At Pratt's ivharf,
FHOM on board th%fhip Thomas Chi'.kley,
Capt. Kafcr, from Bourdeaux,
CI.ARET in cask»
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar
Red Skins in boxes
For Sale by
Rundle Leech.
Mav-15 §
To be Sold,
J) large and convenient
Three Story Brick House ;
SITU TE at the north-east corner of Arch and
Fourth-streets, It contain!, eighteen.rooms—
and is in every refpe<3 well finished, for particu
lars enquire of
M. Keppele,
No. 138, Chefnut- r treet.
May 31. §.
Just Imported,
In the ftiip Rebecca, from St. Croix,
Prime !>ugar and F uni
4C,000 wt. of Windward Ifisnd Coffee
A quantity of choice Madeira Wine.
James Tard,
South fide Walnut street Wharf.
June 27. ( 1 c
Will be Landed,
From onboard the ship A dive, Capt. El air , front
Kamlvnrgh,
ao bales white Ruilia cicatiHetnp
a calks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Ibo mas Herman Leuffgr,
Morth Fifth street, No.
June 7,6. j
[VoIVMS XII.%\)t <ESay ttc»
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, July 7. '
THE modest Mr. Bacile, in bis paper of
this Morning, has, -with his ufudl regard to De
cncy and Truth, endeavored to impress a be-
Tie/ that the deiefed Jacobin, PLOUNT, of
the " virtuous" minority in the Senate, is one
of the " British fcaion" j as this RctuUer of
Sedition denominates the friends of their coun
try in the admimflration of the Government.
Blount was, indeed, " one of .the late
Pre/ident's officers" ; and like ALL who mere
feleßed from the party to which he ever belong
ed, he has given evidence thai those who op
pafi the free government of their country, and
its atlmin'flraiion, are uncheckedLy Moral con
fideratioHS. Tr> oppose, thwart, misrepresent,
and defame a government, refling on Confidence
\ alone, thereby to dejlroy this confidence, has
been a. game as.of ten repeated as free govern
ments ha ve been deflroyed. The late President,
fiduced ly hie own consciousness of integrity,
and mijed by the hypocritical pretensions of'the
Antifederalifls, to superior attachment to liber
ty, the Conjlant tant of diforganizers, appoiv,'-
ed to 9 many of them to offices of importance.
And whr.( have been the returns ? While he
continued in office, they confiantly endeavored to
■'excite opposition, ty mifreprifentation andfalfe
hood;—their malignity has folk-wed that
father cf his country to his hallowed retire
ment. And this friend of General Washing
ton, as the honest Bache wijhes he should be
believed, endeavors, bycajling " all the blame
on the late President", to give himfelf conse
quence, ly " exciting ike savages againfl our
country. 0 shame I'when wilt thou rejlrain
the votaries of feditioei ?
This infamous tranfaaion is, at present veil
ed, iV fame degree, with myflery When the
whole of the Prrfident'f communications /hall be
published, it will be obvious, that the objects of
the traiterous combination were not confined to
the application to the British Mvificr, but that
that application ttfelf was dfigned to produce
ej?Bs which should defeat the execution of our
treaty with Spain, and it has. fa far, at leafl
for the present, succeeded. The probability is,
that the principal agent, Blount, -was an in
s rumen.' in the hands of wily Frenchmen.
That it was hoped the bait would succeed as it
refpecled Great-Britain, and thereby involve
us in hof.ility with that country ; and for this
it is probable they relied upon our prejudices a
gairflthat nation—At any rate, it was believ
ed, that it could not fail to excite fear and jea
lousy in the Span 'tfh government, and probably
might facilitate the cession of territory to France,
of which we have heard so much, and which
we know is so ardently desired.
Refpeaing Mr. Blount, it is a faß well
known, that he has invariably attached himfelf
to the oppofers of the admimflration—that on
no national quejlion has he ever voted with its
friends —that his personal associations have ev
er been consonant with his votes—that during
the laH winter his house was the rendezvons of
those who were canvassing for the eleßion of
the Correfponaent of Mazzei to the Preftdency
—that there has been a corfiant and open inti
macy between him and the French and Spanish
agents here ; and it is believed that he is not e
■«en personal ly known to the British Minifies,
but that all bis applications to him were made
by other men andin other names. '
Juflice demands that it should be added,
that Mr. Liflon gave no encouragement to the
proposals, but repressed the firfl advances ; and
that in his official communications, the reasons \
which influenced him in declining, produced a
rejection of the proje3 by the Britijh admiuif
tration.
July 6.
• COMMUNICATIONS.
That pure and incorruptible patriot, th« Editor
of thd Aurora, in order to raise a dust to cover the
ignominious flight of one of tii * faction, and di
vert the public attention from the objed to which <
_ .it ought, and r.eyerthelcfs will be dirt ded, viz. the
urif<undnc*fs of the pretended patriots—has with
his accustomed candor, attempted to pass on the
pobiic a !>afe misrepresentation refpediing the Bri
' rift) miniftcr. No other refutition is necelfary,
than the publicatian of Mr. Dillon's letter.' One
, thing in Bache'silatcment is remarkable. " What
are we to think (fays he) of -those Americans, who
have been 01110 iamiiiar a footing with him," (the
British mihiftar.) Hah ! it is something fulpi
ciousthen, to he 011 a familiar footing with an am
balTador ! 1 hose who know that Bache never made
love to all the French ministers that have come to
America since their revolution; that his houfc was
not open to and frequented by them, and theirs by
him at all h?urs, and particularly at midnight—
will at once perceive the peculiar propr : ety with
which a remark of this kind comes from .him.
Men ef glass ! throw no stones.
*lt h believed that this Mwtb P'uteof the Ja
cobin Fiflion is father confeffor and privy counfel
to mod cf illc tejftr gudgeons ami.ng the Rrprr
ftmtttin tf frjnu in an American Council of One
Hundred.
■ fkefublhnc Theory of the celebrated
irankkfi realised. ' '
MR. MAISON, lhcw his gratitude
t3 the refpetftable Companies who do him
the honor to be present every evening at the Philo
fcphical and Jdtchanical Expedients, executed by
three artificial per/ons, informs the lovers of arts
and fciencen, that THIS tViiNING, the 7th inft
the're will be a furpriftog addition to the Phllofo
phicat Experiments, which are ioalily exccuttd by
the artificial Lady: after having fired the Cannons
de Valta, Incited metals through means of her in
flamed brcaft, &c. &c. (he wijl direct the eledtric
fire os. a building, which, being provided with a
pointed will remain perfedly'l'afc, but 1
Suving applied alnetalic ball to the point, a fecpnd ,
ilroke of tht elcdtric fre will fa 1 011 the fame, and
lieftroy it imlantaneoufly.
This oifcoveiy alone is fufficientto insure to the 1
celebrated Franklin an undoubted right to the gra
titudc of the public : it is ill the country of this
great man that an European I'hilofoph r (who al
ready at Palis obtained marks of his efteern) will
repeat thio beautiful experiment, beiarc his worthy
fel'ow citizens, in order to celebrate and horior the
men. "y of its author
Thefc experiments will continue every Monday,
Wednesday, a-r.d Friday evenings, at 8 o'clock rre
cifcly, in the dancing-room of Mr. M DouclaH,
in Fourtli-ftrect, between Chefnut and Walnut
greets, and will be varied and augmented.
Entrance half a dollar—Children, one quarter ol
*4«fer July 7. —oiw&ftf
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Piiblijhed by Authority.
FIFTH CONGRESS
OP THE UNITED STATES. I
♦
AT THE FIRST SESS;OT>",
' Piq'un and held at the City of Philadelphia,
ir. the State of Pennsylvania, on Mon
day, the fifteenth day of May,
one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-seven.
, An Aa for reviving and continuing Suits arid
( Process in the Circuit Court for the Diflrlß
, of North-Cdrolina.
WHEREAS, a fulTicient quorum of
judges did not attend to lipid the
• circuit court, for the diftridt of North-Caro
• lina, for the purpose of doirtg bufmefs in
' June term, one thousand seven hundred and
- h:nety-feven, in consequence whereof, cer
t tain provisions are now become neceflary and
- expedient, to prevent a failure of juftire in
- the said court. •
f Sedlion 1. BE it therefore enaUed by the
t Senate and House of Representatives of tfe
United States of America, in Congress affem
r bled, I'hat it ihall and mgy be lawful for the
1 diftrift judge of the slate of North-Carolina,
to direct the clerk of the said court, to issue
- such process for the purpose of causing per
f sous to be summoned to serve as jurymen at
- the said courts at the term to commence the
t thirteenth day of November next, as has
» been before iff tied by the- clerk faid
f court for the like purpose, returnable to
■ June term, one thousand feyen hundred and
ninety-Jeveri ; that the persons ordered by
? the said process to be summoned for the said
> purpose, shall be ordered to be summoned
■ | in the fame proportion, and from the fame
• counties, as those persons who were ordered
' to be summoned for the like purpose, by.
- process returnable at June term, one thousand
' seven hundred and ninety-seven : Provided,
• that if it shall appear expedient, to the said
- ' diftrid judge, that a different time of ro
- ! tice shall be prescribed, than that hitherto
' : prescribed, he may cause such other time of
> notice to be direfted to be given, as to him
' ftiall appear mod conducive to justice, aud
convenient to the persons to be summoned :
I And. the marshal is-hereby directed to cxe
' cute the said process, so to be issued ; and
'■■ j. the persons who shall be legally summoned
' to attend as jurymen, in consequence there
• ; of, are 1 ereby required to attend the said
' court, under the like penalties for difebedi
r ence, as if the said process had been ordered
r to be issued by the said court, in the ordina
' ry method of proceeding ; and the marshal
■ and the persons who (hall attend-as jutymen,
1 • in virtue of the said process, so to be issued,
■ i shall be entitled to the like allowances for
> ; their services, refpedtively.
Scftion 2. And be it further enaHed, That
all suits and proceedings, of what nature or
kind soever, which have been commenced
' in the said court, and not fmifhed, shall be
proceeded on at the ensuing term, in the
| fame manner, and to the fame effeft, as if
: the said circuit court had been regularly held
for the purpose of business in June term,
one thousand ' seven hundred and ninety
feven, and continuances had been regularly
entered, of all suits and proceedings of the
said term, in which they were depending,
in the usual manner of proceeding, as the
cafe might be.
Section 3. J!nd be it further enaded, That
; all writs and other process sued out of the
clerk's office of the said circuit court, accord
ing to the accustomed method, bearing test
in November term, one thousand seven hun
dred and ninety-fix, or J%ne term, one thou
sand seven hundred and ninety-seven, shall
be held and deemed of the fame validity and
effeft as if the term of June, one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-seven, had been
regularly held by a judge or judges compe
tent to do business, and continuances in ,re
fpeft to suits or other process returnable to
the last mentioned term, had been regularly
entered.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
THOMAS JEFFERSON,
Vice Prefideilt of the United States, and
President of the Senate.
JlpproveJ, July. <,' 17Q7 :
JOHN ADAMS/
President of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the Office of
the Department of State.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Secretary as State.
An A& to continue in force', to the end of the
next Session, cersSin Aas, andparts of ABs,
of limited duration.
BE it enaßed by the Senate and Hoife of
Representatives of the United States of
America, in Congress assembled, That all
laws of the United States, and parts of laws
now in force, and which, by the terms of
their limitation, will'expire with the end of
this session of Congress, shall be, and hereby
are continued in force, until the end of the
next session.
JONATHAN DAYTON,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
THOMAS JEFFERSON,
Vice-President of the United States, and
President of the Senate.
AptruVed, July 5, 1707 :
JOHN ADAMS,
President of the United States.
Deposited among the Kelts m the Office of tie
Department of Slate.
Timothy Pickering,
Secretary of Stats.
C a N ,G K £ S S.
HOUSE of representatives,
Monday, July 3.
Mr. W. Smith, proposed a resolution,
appropriating a sum of money for creating
goals iu those States, in which there are not
fufficient ones at present, for containing the
prisoners of the United States.
Thispropofitionvvasoppofedonihe ground
of its being no way conne&ed with the pre
f-nt session, and -negatived without a Ci
vilian.
The bill for laying a (lamp duty was read
a third time, and the blanks filled up, viz.
that for fiijng the time of the a£t's taking
effe£t, with the 31ft d n y of December next
—the fine ami imprisonment for counter
feiting stamps, See. with 1000 dollars and
7 years iraprifonpiAt ; and the time for
which the duration of the act was limited,
with five years.
The yeas and nays upon the palling of
the bill were'as follow :
YEAS.
Mtffrs. Aljen, Bayafd, Brookes, Coch
ran, Coit, Craik, Dana, Davenport, Den
nis, Der.t, Evans, A. Folter, D. Foster,
J. Freeman, Gillefpje, Glenn, Goodrich,
Gordon, Grifvrold, Hanna, Harper, Hart
ley, Hindman, Holmer, S. Lyman, Ma
chir, Matthews, Morgan, Morris, Otis,
Potter, Reed, Rutledge, Schureman, Sew
all, Shepard, Sinnickfon, Sitgreavss, J.
Smith, N. Smith, W. Smith, (Charles.)
Thatcher, Thomas, Thompson, Van Alen,
Wadfworth, J.. Williams- 47.
NAYS.
Messrs. Baer, Baldwin, Baird, Benton,
Blount, Bryan, Burgess, Cabell, Champ
lin, Claiborne, Clopton, Clay, Davis, Daw
lon, Elmendorf, Fowler, Gallatin, Havens,
Holmes, Jones, Livingiton, Locke, Lyqn,
Macon, M'Clfuachan,M'Dovvell, Milledge,
New, Nicholas, Parker, Skinner, W.
Smith, (P.) Sprigg, Standford, Sump
ter, A. Trigg, J. Tiigg, Van Cortlandt,
Varnuni, Venable, R. Williams— 41.
Mr. Gallatin moved the order of the
day on the bill making additional appropri
ations for the year j 797.
The houfc accordingly went into a com
mittee of the whole on this fubjeft, and the
blanks of the bill were filled.
The firft five items were agreed to with
out objeftlon. On Mr. W. Smith's pro
poling to fill the 6th item with 60,000
dollars,
Mr. Nicholas, called for the reading
of the particulars which composed this sum.
They confilted of the falai-y and outfits of
Ministers to France ; to Prulfia, and to
the Barbary powers. Mr. N, wilhed the
sum mentioned to be forthe tyfinifter of Ber
lin, viz. 13,500 dollars to be deducted from
the 60,5 ro, as he knew of no pollible use
that a Minister to Berlin could be of. He
thought the present extension of foreign in
tercourse was far too great ; he wished
much to fecit narrowed, andtrultcd it would
be done at the ne*t feflion, as the law on
that fubjeft would then expire. He "wish
ed, therefore, to reduce this sum, in order
to to fliew their wish to have the business of
foreign intercourse circumscribed. He mo
ved to fill th>; blank with 47,000 dollars.
Mr. Harper thought it was too late for
the gentleman to talk in this manner, bc
caufe a sum of money . had uniformly beeu
appropriated for the purpose of foreign in
tercourse. It. was extraordinary, therefore,
that at this day, if there were no good reasons
for it, that lhey (hould now be called upon
to depart from their usual praftice. He
hoped it would not meet with the approba
tion of the house.
Mr. M'DoweLl was opposed to voting
any considerable sum for this purpose. It
might have been proper heretofore : but he
could fee rio reason at present for entering
into treaties with nations with whom we
neither had, nor could have any considera
ble connection. He wished to pAuse before
they agreed to this measure ; because, if a
greed to, he expected it would hereafter be
produced as a reason why they should extend
the business Hill farther.
Mr. Nicholas said, the gentleman from
S. Carolina seemed' to have miltaken him.
He did not propose to ftr/ke out any thing
which had heretofore been agreed to, but
whpt related to a further extension of our
foreign intercourse. Of the four northern
powers, he thought it was least necelTary to
have any connection with Prufiia j Ihe Was
in a situation to favor us less than any other
power. If a new treaty were entered into
with Pruflia, he supposed it would be next
proposed to have one with Sweden, Den
mark and Rufiia, as we had a much greater
commercial conn«£tion witb those powers
than with Prulfia. As to their having once
agreed to go into this business of foreign in
tercourse, it was no reason for continuing
it after they were convinced the fylletn was
injurious to the welfare andhappinefs of this
country.
Mr. W. Smith said, this motion invol
ved in it a very delicate conlideration. They
were called upon to vote for a less sum thai!
that estimated, upon the ground that
President had done wrong in fending a min
ister to Berlin. His colleague was right,
when he said this was running counter to ef
tablilhecLrule. He thought it would be con
trary to the spirit of the constitution, be
cause the power of judging of the propriety
of fending mi Mitel's to foreign 'countries rest
ed with the'Prefident and Senate ; but this
house conceiving they had made an injudi
cious exercise of that right, fay they will
withhold the necessary appropriations ;
which, he said, would be fxercifing a pow
er over th.t branch of government in which
the constitution had alone placed the power
of doing the
that the President having sent a minister to
Berlin, they were as much bound to appro
priate money to pay the expense, as they
were bound to provide for the salary of the
President, or of the judges. Some gentle
men, however, thought, that fueh a litua
ticn might exilt, rt> would juft'fy the with
holding of epprojniiftons. Admitting that
there might be fueh a situation, a question
would arise whether it should be done by
withholding an, appropriation, by impeach
ment, or by a vote of eenfure on the Presi
dent. For if that House were to arrest an
appropriation, be supposed the Senate would
not fuffer the bill to pass without it, and un
lesS they came into the opinion of the Sen
ate, no bill could pass.
He found Ir.mfelf embarrassed in discus
sing this question, bccaufe it was not their
province to adduce reasons for fending a min
ister to any particular place ; but he thought
if it were desirable we lliould have a minis
ter at any foreign court, it was that of Prus
sia ; and from the connexion which fublift
ed between that monarch and the French
republic, he should have supposed that those
gentlemen who wilhed so much to harmo
nize with the French Republic, would not
have objedted to the fending of a minister
there.
The treaty we formerly had with Pruflia
was expired, and he believed that court had
requeued a renewal of it ; the President had
also recommended it in his speech at the
opening of the feflion ; and there might exist j
reasons for it which were not proper
laid before that house. He agreed frivA pri
ma facia there appeared to be a jjifeter pro
priety for us to enter into tre; / with Den
mark, Sweden and Ruflia than with Pruflia.
We had a treaty with Sweden about to ex
pire ; and it was riot improbable that the
gentleman fer,t to Berlin, might also be em
ployed in making a treaty with Sweden. If
gentlemen had intended to make the present
ferions opposition to the measure, he thought
it would have been more candid to have
given notice of the intention, that gen
tlemen might have been prepared to meet it.
Mr. Gallatin said, it was rather An
gular that the chairman of the committee of
ways and means should be unprepared to
meet any opposition to this measure, since
he knew that several members of that com
mittee were opposed to it, and he mult there
fore have expedted that they would have
moved to appropriate a less sum. But it
appeared as if the gentleman wilted to make
a very serious question of what he considered
as merely incidental, viz. whether they
should vote so much money, or a less sum.
He believed he should shew it was of little
importance.
I In relation to the constitution, it was
merely said that the Prefi dent should have
\ ppwer to appoint ministers, ambafiadors, &c.
but, by the power to appoint ministers,
could never be meant that he had the power
to fend ministers to all the courts of Eu
rope, and to all the principalities of Germa
ny, and call upon that house only in an indi
rect way to agree to the appropriation. As
to the'power of appointing ministers, it was
a new power gfiven to the Executive by the
present constitution. The firft Congress
took up the fubjeCt. They might have said
there should be four or fix ministers employ
ed. They did not do this ; but they de
clared that the salary of a minister lliould not
f :ceed 2,000 dollars, nor his out fit a similar
f n, nor the whole 1 annual expense 40,000
dollars. By this check they divided the
power with the Executive ; and if this pow
er were not ailed upon, it would have been
absurd to have given it to them. He did
not look upon the present question as by any
means a constitutional one. The President
had appointed a minister for Berlin, for rea
sons best known to himfelf; and the question
betwixt them was, whether the appointment
was a proper one.
They had been yearly called upon for
additional appropriations for this object :
if they thought it necelTary to check this
fnirit for foreign connections, or were de
termined not to renew the law relative to
foreign negociations, it would be right to
agree to the proposed reduction. As to
impeachment, or eenfure, they were out of
the question. The President thought a mi
nister to the court in question would be of
some use ; they thought differently, and that
the money would be more valuable. Where
was the cause of acufation ? It was merely
a difference of opinion.
Another collateral argument of the gen
tleirtan from S. Carolina, related to what the
Senate would do. He did not think it par
liamentary to fay the Senate would do this
or that.
1 - To enforce the propriety of fending a
minister to Berlin, the gentleman from S.
Carolina had suggested two reasons, viz. the
'of the President, and the
of renewing our treaty. He did
not think a renewal of that treaty would be
of any advantage to us ; nor did he think
any gentleman was anxious about it. By
that treaty the United States were prohibit
ed from fitting out privateers in any cafe.
But he thought that gentleman had used a
strong argument againji fending a minister
to Berlin. He did not know how far the
the gentleman was well informed ; bi)t if the
object of the minister was to prevail upon
the king of Pruflia to obtain an accommo
dation for us' with France, he thought it
would be the worst policy which could be
adopted. Such an offer of mediation would
not be likely to produce an accommoda
tion. [Mr. S. said he had mentioned this
merely as a suggestion of his own, without
any authority.}
Another consideration, Mr. G. laid, in
duced him to be in favor of reducing the ap
priation was, that the money was altogether,
unnecessary. He did not suppose the gen
tleman from S. Carolina vvilhed to appro
priate for ministers/ which had no existence,
and the money now asked had been appro
priated already in full. It was true it was
appropriated for a minister to be sent to Por
tugal ; but none had been sent there, so that
the money remained unexpended, and the
fame gentlemen intended for the former em
bassy, was now employed on this. The fact
was that their appropriations for foreign in
tercourse were not particularized, but made
in gross. There was. therefore, a fufficient
sum of money in hand, iince the oEjeci ha 3
merely been changed.
Mr. J. Williams argued in favor cf tits
larger fuhi, as it had been' usual to- appro-'
prial< money to pay the expense of any mi- 1
nitter Vvhi'ch the Prefiden - . (accordingto the '
power placed in him by the conft't-utioii)
though? it neteifary to fend abroad. He
thought it might He attended with bad'ccn
ftquences to withold the appro- -
priations for this [purpose, especially when
a miniiler had already been appointed.
Mr N. Smith iai 1 tTi*i>
had agitajed i\c house ever since the gentleman
fiom Pennfyl,vania came into five government ;
as it had been ins eonjtant endeavour to swallow
up the executive power in that lioufe- For cer
tainly, if that hoUse had the powir to approp-i
---ate'or r.ot to appropriate, to deflroy, or support
the appointment of a miniiler, at their pleal'ure,
it was terta'|i that the executive was r-o longer
an independent branch of government. Mr. S.
'said, as he wilhed to preftrve the government
pure, he should always bear teitimonv ag.inft
such a doQrine. He considered the executive
as the sole judge as to the propriety of appoint
ing fc tien ministers ; and being sole judge, that
houfc had no rtgh-t to judge over his head, any
mote tljan over the head of the judiciary ; and
w>. *-?ver any one branch of government fhalJ
ptciume to judge over the head of another,
'liore was an end to 1 lie' puritv of ouf' system.
, Mr. Baldwin spoke < f the ground upon
which this business was originally fettled. He
laid '.hey determined not to lay to the President
to what place a miniftej should be fern, or what
quality of miniiler fhou.ci be appointed; but t}iey
stipulated the quantity of money to be expended.
At the tim* the furn was firft enlarged, a parti
cular urgency ex'ift: d. He looked upon the ex
tension of this power as unfortunate for this
country, and he IhouM be against its going far
ther. The gentlemap from Conuedticut had
therefore difturbedhiralelfunneceffarily, when he
thought this doilrine was of recent date ; it waa
certainly as old as the government.
Mr. Thatcher. thought'the gentleman last
up was mistaken. He did tiot believe that bv
confiniug the expenditure in'rdpefl 1o fpfeigu
neget iations to 40,000 dollars,- it was. meant to
irammel the powers of the President; but that
the ftm was granted because it was thought it
would be fuflkiem for.tl»e purpose. He had no
idea that they had a light to 1 the Presi
dent in this refpeift.
Mr. SeWAll ct nfidered this qurtiion of so
much important* that heccpld not refrain from
delivering his opinion upch it. He mGft«d upon
the conllitutien being char in placing the pow
er in the executive, and that the appointment of
miniftera liood upon the fame ground as the ap
pointment of the judges of the federal »ourt.
The question, he said, l'eemed to c6nie to this:
Whether the Prelkeflt Ihould obtain an appro
priation from that lioufe, before he proceeded.to
appoint a irinilter A dosrir.e cf th; 3 kind
would beextrem ly inconvenient, finite Congress
Were only in feffi&n at certain period., whereas
it could not be said at what precift time it should
be neceflary 10 fend a miniiitr to a foreign coun
try. If the President should be guilty of exces
sive ill conduiH, gentlemen would do well to
come forward and fay he had done wrong ; but
even in that cafe, he should be doubtful whether
that house would be juftified in refefing an ap
propriation ; as it would be neeeflary to punish
the Prefioeot in a different way .• for in refufijig
the neccifary money, the perfon 1 employed on
the embalf) would be punilhed, and not the Pre
sident.
Mr. Gallatin wilhed the gentleman from
Connefl'u ut instead of being angry, had attend
ed to the fa<ft wtlich he bad itatid, viz, that,the
money asked for was already appropriated, tie
wiflicd alio that lie had. enquired into the fa&
whether at any time they had appropriated for
the'expence 01 niiniflers before they existed. If
they were found to appropriate, thtv wure not
bound to appropriate what was before
them. He did not believe that even rhe.gentle
man from Coanelticut would fubferibe to this
doctrine.
As to what the gentlemen had said rela
tive to what had takenplacclirtCe he came
into that houfe,-he ws? altogether.
In addition to what- had becij said to the
gentleman from Georgia, .he would afkwhy
the law of 1750 was limitted for two years,,
if r.ot meant to check the,power of the Pre
sident ? If Congress had beep of opinion that
they were bound, they would have made a
permament appropriation as in relation to the
public debt.
If, because they differed in opinion, they
were to charge each other with subverting
the government, there would be an end to
business. He gave the C6nftitution a con
ftru&ion whifch he thought right; that
gentlemen, he supposed, dicl the fame, and
though in his opinion, his doftrine brought
all legislative power into the hands of the Ex
cutive, yet he would not charge him with a
ny other than good intentions.
With refpeft to the judges of the Su
pre le Courts the President had the power
only to appoint them, their number was
fixed by the legislature ; so that there was
afimilar check in both cases. He thought
the true ground was the'expediency of the
business. •
Mr. Harper asked whether that house
was pofiefied of all the information necefia
ryto form a judgment of the propriety of
this measure. Gould they fay with pro
priety, that a minister ovght riot to be sent
either to Lisbon or Berlin ? And if t;he pro
posed sum were taken from the appropria
tion, one ofthefe millions must be given up.
Thus to controul the power of the prefidest,
in his opinion, would be to destroy a provi
iion of the confutation, and bring the presi
dent into a very humiliating fituijtiori.
Mr. Nicholas said, if the appropriation
of money was not veiled in their hands for
the purpose of exercising their judgment up
on the propriety of expence, he could not
fee the use it was of; but he did believe they
had the power of controlling what appeared
to them improper expence, and.that it wis
their duty to do so.
The queftlon was put for filling the blank
with the larger sum, viz, 60,5.00 dollar-.,
and carried, there being 50 votes in favour
of it.-
The 7th, Bth, 9th, 10th, nth, and
12 th, items were agreed without opposi
tion.
On the y,coo dollars proposed for the
hofpiyl department, some debate took
place. It was urged by Meflrs. W. Smith,
and Otis, on the ground of its having been
called for by the proper department, and
that if it was not expended, the money
would be fafe in the treafliry.
lt was opposed by MefT.s* Gallatin, Vat".
o'Jlh and Macon, as in-their opinion unr.ecefTa»
*ttf. It was that the expeiue -J tkij
.ilrpsrt irciit had' silver reached 7,000 dollars
Jaco that lo.oco tiullats had beep appropria
tet f-his year, which they thought mud prove
luthGielif ; if it were nut, it might be suppli
ed nest fiffi-ss. Mr. Gallatin declared he had
t)c<f«.kh in ilk eilwiian s of jhe war depart
ment with refpeit to the levera! heads of ex-
as heretofore, when she appropriations
were made general, and a furplos under one
head, was taken to supply deficiencies under
another, the hdfpital department had been
at 30,000 dollars, though, by tlie
itturn which had been made to them lad feffi
-011, it appeared, that it learcely ever exceeded
6,000 dollars. [lt will be recolledted that
rail lelfion the appropriations for the military
ellablifhment were made /pecial, ffo that in
■ future every item of ex pence mud be kept
di!t.»ft.]
On the molion for ftrikinj out this item
being put, it was negatived 45 to 33. The
quellion for filling the blank with 5,000 dol
lars, was carried 39 to 30-
The remainder of the items were agreed
to without debate. The committee rose, the
house took them up, and agreed to them and
the bill was oidered to be engrossed for a
third reading on Monday.
Ameffage was received from the Senate,
with a bill which had palled that house for
reviving the law r'efpe&injf Consuls and vicc-
Consuls.
Ilalfo iuformeJ them, that the President
Intd approveduid signed the aft for provi
ding a naval armament, and an aft for fixing
the next meeting of Congress.
Mr. Reed reported the bill for compelling
process iu the circuit court of N- Carolina,
a«d the bill for continuing in force certain
afls and parts of ails, as duly enrolled ; they
were accordingly signed by the Speaksr.
, Mr. Alaf.n laid a resolution outhe table,
again proposing a cutv of cents per
blithe) on fait.—Ordered to lie. •
A confidential communication was receiv
ed from the P.efideot of the United States ;
to read which the galleries were cleared as
usual.—Adjourned.
%i)t (sa3Ztte7~
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, Juir 7.
William Blount took his feat in the
Senate yesterday, as usual. He read a short
address, in which he said he trufled when he
came to be heard upon his trial, he should
be at>le to clear himfijlf from the charges
which he understood were to be brought a
gainst him. We understand he was allow
ed to be heard by council this day, to
lhew why he ought not to be expelled from
his feat in the house.
Thereportofthe Committee of the House
of Representatives on Mr. Blount's business
was debated yesterday. It concluded with
an opinion that he ought to be impeached of
high crimes, and misdemeanors. The sub
ject was adjourned to this day. 1
This forenoon, the House of Represent
atives adopted the Report of their Com
mittee, nrm. con. relative to Mr. Blount,
—m conlequence of which, the House, in
a body, carried up to the Senate, an Im
peachment against him, of High Crimes and
Mifdemcanours.
In Senate of the United States,
July 6, 1797.
The committee to whom was referred that
part of the President's message which relates
to a letter purporting to have been written
by Willam Blount, one of the
Senators from the State of Tennessee, to
gether with the papers accompanying the
fame, having had the fame under their con
federation, beg leave to make a farther re
port.
That Mr. Blount having declined an ac
knowledgement or denial of the letter impu
ted to him ; and having failed to appear or
give any fatisfaitory explanation refpeiling
it, your committee sent for the original let
ter whifh accompanies this report, and is in
the following words..
( See yesterday's Gazette.)
Two Senators now present in the Senate,
have declared to the committee that they are
well acquainted with the hand writing of
Mr. Blount, and have no doubt that this
letter was written by him, your committee
have examined many letters from Mr. Blount
to the Secretary of War, a number of which
are herewith submitted as well as the let
ter addressed by Ms. Blount to Mr. Cocke
his colleague in the Senate, and to this com
mittee refpefting the business now under
confederation ; and find them all to be of
the fame hand writing with the letter in
question. Mr. Blount has never denied
this letter, iSit on the other hand, when the
copy transmitted to the Senate was read in
his presence on the 3d inft. he acknowled
ged in his place that he had written a letter
to Carey of which he had preserved a copy,
but could not then decide whether the copy
read was a true one. Your committee are
fully persuaded that the original
letter now produced was written and sent to
Carey by Mr. Blount. They also find that
this man, Carey, to whom it was-addreffed,
is, to the knowledge of Mr. Blount, in the
rpay and employment of the United States,
as their interpreter to the Cherokee Nation
of Indians and an assistant in the public Fac
tory at Tellico Blockhouse. That Haw
kins who is so often mentioned in this letter
as a person who mull be brought into suspi
cion among the Creeks and if possible dri
ven from his station, is the Superintendant
of Indian affairs for the United States among
the Southern Indians—Dinfmore »is agent
for the United States in theCherokee nation,
and Byets, one. of the agents in the public
Factory at Tellico Blockhouse.
The plan hinted at in this extraordinary
letter to be executed under the auspices of
tie British, is so capable of different con
ftruilions and conjectures that your commit
tee at present forbear givingany decided
ion refpeiting it; except that taMr. Blount's
own mind it appeared to be inconsistent with
I
| the interests of the United States and of
j Spain, and he wis therefore anxious to con
ceal it from both. Bat when they consider
ed his to seduce Carey from his du
ty as a faithful interpreter and to employ
him as an »-ngine to alienate the affeitioas
and confidence of the Indians frotA the pub
lic officers of the United States residing
among them ; the measures he has proposed
to excite a temper which mull produce the
recall or expulsion of our fuperintendant
from the Creek, nation, his insidious advice
tending to the advancement of his own po
pularity and consequence at the expense and
hazard of the good opinion which the Indi
ans entertain of this government and of the
treaties fubfiftihg between us and them ;
your committee have no doubt that Mr.
Blount's conduit has been inconsistent with
his public duty, renders him unworthy of a
further continuance of his present public trull
in this body, and amounts to a high misde
meanor. They therefore unanimously re
commend to the Senate an adoption of the
following resolution.
Resolved, That William Blount, Esquire,
one of the Senators of the United States
having been guilty of a high misdemeanor
intirely inconsistent with his public trust and
duty as a Senetor, be, and he hereby is ex
pelled from the Senate of the United States.
MESSAGE.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and
Gentlemen of the House of Representatives,-
7HE whole of the intelligence which has
for some time pafl been received from abroad,
the correspondence between this Government and
the min'tfters of the belligerent powers residing
here, and the advices from the officers of the
United States, civil and military, upon the
' frontiers, all conspire to shew in a very Jlrong
light, the critical fituatiun of our country
That Congress might be enabled to form a more
perfeß judgment of it, and of the measures ne
\ ceffary to be taken, I have dire Sled the proper
officers to prepare such collections of extraSs'
from the public correjpondences as might ajfcrd
tbe clearefl information- The reports made to
me, from the Secretary of State, and the Se
cretary at War, with a colleftion of docu
ments from each of them, are now communi
cated to both Houfos of Congress : I have de
sired that the message, reports and documents
may be confidertd as confidential, merely that
the members of both Houses of Congress may
be be apprized of their contents before they
Jhould be made public. As soon as the Houses
shall have heard them, I Jhall submit to tbeir
discretion, the publication of the whole, or
any such parts of them, as they fhalljudge ne
cejfary or expedient for the public good.
JOHN ADAMS.
United States,
i July id, 1797.
REPORT of the Secretary of War to tke
President of the United States.
War-Office, 30th June, 1797.
THE Secretaty of War has the honor
refpeitfully to report to the Prelident of the
United States, the annexed ex trails of let
ters from Brigadier General Wilkinfon and
Lieutenant Colonel Hamtramck, relative to
certain causes which may have affefted the
disposition of the Indians on the western
frontiers ; as also extracts of dispatches to
Brigadier General Wilkinfon and captain
Guion, refpecling to be observ
ed by the latter officer on his arrival at the
Natchez and Walnut-Hills ; with copies of
a correspondence bet\»een his excellency
Manuel Gayofo de Lemos and Lieutenant
Piercy Pope, of the corps of artillerills and
engineers, and commandant of the advanced
guard of the troops of the United States,
destined to take pofleflion of those polls,
which exhibit the reasons that had prevent
ed his receiving them.
The Secretary further reports a copy of
a letter from William Blount, Senator from
the state of Tfnneffee, (the 'Original of
which is believed to be in his hand writing)
addressed to James Carey, interpreter to the
Cherokee nation, and affiilant to the Indian
fatElory at Tellico, inTeneffee. who had re
ceived it, and which had fiace come to the
hands of the Principal of that factory.
JAMES M'HENRY,
Secretary of War.
[No. I.]
Extrracl of a letter from the Secretary of
War to Brigadier General James Wilkin
fon, dated War-Office, 9th June, 1797.
" YESTERDAY the Secretary of State
received letters from Mr. Ellicott, by which |
it would appear that scruples on the part of
Governor Gayofo had retarded the evacua
tion of the polls.
" These scruples or objections are, firft,
That in his opinion the forts ought to be
demolilhed ; 2d. That he thought it neceflfa
ry to continue his force in that quarter till
the claims of Spanilh fubje£ls to land should
be adjulled by negociation.
" As to the firft, our officer may be in
ftruited to agree to the demolition of the
works if infilled on. As to the second, he
will affurethe governor that he is authorized
to fay, that no person shall be disturbed in
his possession or property till an opportunity
has been afforded to apply to Congress, and
that they may rely upon their claims being
adjusted upon.the moll equitable principles.
" It is to be presumed, that on receiving
these explanations, the SparJfh garrisons
will be withdrawn. If, however, contrary
to expedlation, this ftiould not happen our
officer is to take a secure position, but not so
near them as to give any cause to the Spanilh
garrisons to apprehend insult or injury."—
[No. ll.]
Ext rail of a letter from the Secretary cf War,
to Captain Isaac Guion, commanding a de
tachment of the Troops of the United States,
defined for the Natchez, dated IVar-Of
fce, June lOth, 1797.
" I ENCLOSE you duplicate of my
letter to Brigadier General Wilkinfon of
yesterday's date for your government, in
cafe he should have left FoYt Washington, or
by any accident be prevented from commu
nicating to you the contents.—
" Having a perfe£t reliance on your pru
dent and judgment, I cannot doubt but
your command will prove fatisfaftory to
yourfelf, and advantageous to the United
States.
[No. HI-]
ExtraS of a letter front the Secretary of H r ar
t» Capt. Iff at Guinn, dated liar-Ojficr, June
1 \;tb, 17 97.
" SHOULD this dilpatch find you whert J'
expeisl it will, at the Natchez, and the Spanish
garrison still in pofTcffion of the works at that
place; you will be pleated to lose no time in
communicating to tne commanding officer there,
the enelofed copy of a meflage* from the Pre
sident of the United States to Congress,
and to the iuha'iitants of Natchez its
content?, that both may be' fully pofTeffed of .the
intentionsof Government. You will alio inform
the Spanish Commandant, tlwt yoli are inftriicJl
ed to pay the ftri&eft attention to the engage
ments the United States have entered into by the
his Ca'tholic Majesty ; to permit
the demo ition of the works; to use yourutmolt
endeavours to preserve a continuance of the pa
cific dispositions of the Indians within our limits,
towards the fubjefts of His Catholic Majifty, 01
his Indians ; and to prevent their commencing
hofjili'ies (oj which.there is no appearance)
against either, eonfermably to the fifth article of
the said Treaty. That you fluter yourfelf, af
ter these candid afiurances, that you will have
the immediate pleasure to announce to the Pre
sident, a full compliance with the treaty on the
part of the Commander of his Catholic Majes
ty's forces within the United Sutei."-
f* litb June, 1797.]
[No. IV.j
ExtraS of a letter from Brigadier General
James Wilkinfon to the Secretary of War,
dated Fort lVaJhingtzn, id June, 1797, te
ceii'ed ltd inflant.
" LIELTTENAAT Colonel Howard of the
regiment of Louisiana, an accomplished Irish
man. has arrived at St. Louis, with four hundred
regular troops ; he is ftrengtheniag the works of
that place, and organizing the Militia; and I
have inf«rmation, through a confidential chan
nel, that it was deterrained as early Septem
ber- lalt, not to give up the posts on the Mis
sissippi."
[No. V.'j
ExtraS of a letter frotn Brigadier General
James Wiifinfon to the Secretary of War,
dated Fort Wiyhington, 4tb June, 1797, re
moved 1 id inflate.
" LETTERS from all quarters announce the
discontented and menacing al'peA of the sava
ges; two whit? men have been recently mur
dered on the Ohio below the Cumberland, and
the savages beyond the Mifiiffippi, and thofewho
pass MafTac, make no hesitation to avow their
purpose for war ; the Shawanefe, at the old Ta
wa towns, are our nearest neighbours; they
profefs friendfhip, but are making no prepara
tions for a crop, which it a certain indication
of their intentien to chauge ground."
[No. Vl.]
Extraft of a letter from Lieutenant Colonel
Hamtramck to Brigadier General James
Wilkinfon, dated Detroit, 21ft May,
1797-
" The departure of the fourth regiment,
and now of the artillery, makes us very weak
—it has reduced our guards from officer's
guards to non-commiflioned officer's, and
our strength does not admit of three re
lieves.
" I have had, for a long time past, a
large number of Indians—l do not' know
well their intentions—but I think it would
be prudent not to weaken the garrison more
than it is; and lam pretty sure that both
the French and Spaniards have emiflaries a
mongst the Indians. ,1 have it from indubit
able authority, that a large Belt from the
Spaniards is now travelling through the dif
ferent nations."
(Te be continued.)
By this day's Mail.
, . BOSTON', July 3.
Capt; Tilton, from Cadiz, in lat. 45, 18,fpoke
the ship Phcnix.JYom Bremen for Baltimore,3s d»ys
out, the capt. of which informud hini, that he had
onboard papers,giving information of the French
having declared War against America.
Ontheiath April the French Dire&ory moved
the.Council of Five Hundred to prohibit the in
troduiliou of English merchandize into Corsica,
and to extend to that country the commercial ad
vantages enjoyed by the Republic. Referred to a
committed.
PARIS, May XO.
MifT.na arrived two days since at Pars—he
brings the ratification of the definitive treaty of
peace with the Emperor.
The Senate of Venice has written to Gc*. Buo
naparte, to assure him of their wish to preserve the
utmost harmony betwren the two republics, and
premised to do juflice for the murders committed
upen individuals of the French army ; the fenatc
■also request the interceflion of the French general,
to reflore to the republic of Venice, the countries
btyond the Mincio.
The King of Spain has already named his
ambaflador to the Congress at Berne—where
he and the King of Prussia will aft as medi
ators : And such is the known temper and
disposition of the people of England, that
the government will embrace the opportuni
tyoffendingaminifterto Berne, and accede
to auy just and reasonable terms of peace.
[Col. Centiml. ]
SALEM, June 39.
From the IJle of France.
By captain Mirick of the Flora, ar
rivedat New Bedford, and who left the
Isle of France on the. 30th of March, the
following positive fafts may be relied on,
being handed through paflengers upon that
ship ; —" That at the time of their failing,
no orders from France had been received to
"flop American vessels to or from English
ports ; and that the colonial aflembly of the
island had passed some late favorable decrees
refpefting American trade—ordering that
our vessels should not be flopped or molest
ed in any of their different India voyages,
or in any way •whatever." , The Americans
were much refpefted there.
Dispute between the United States
and France.
This day is publilhed, by Thomas Bradford, No.
8, bouth Front flreet, price 2/4,
OBSERVATIONS on the dispute between the
United States and France, addriCed ly Ro
bert Goodloe Hamper;of Scuth Carslina.tohis
onftitusnts. June i.6.- ss>t
PROVIDENCE, June 29: j
O i Saturday last a Number of Pcrfons
from this towa, with a large Seine made for
the Octagon, and Boats well man- !
ned, anil provided with Harpoons, &c.,
commenced a serious Chafe in beaconk Ri
ver, after large FISH mentioned iii our
last—about 2 o'Clock, Capt. Cole was for
tunate enough to strike it with a harpoon—
and the novel Scene of the Boat towed about
| the River with great Velocity by the Fish,
rtccited Anxiety 111 the surrounding Specta
tors (amounting to 2 or 3000) for the Safe
ty of the Perions in the Boat, as well as
Pleasure. at the profpeft of the Fish being
taken; it however broke the Hold.—lt rose
a Number of Times in the Course of the
Afternoon, and the blood run plentifully I
frotn the wound; but no-other Opportunity !
to strike or entangle it in the Seine offered
that Day—Sunday morning very early, it
was_ievind further up the river in Shoal
Water, and taken without much Trouble.
—lt measured .12 Feet, 10 Inches in
Length, fend 5 Feet round. It is not a
greed what the proper Name of this Fish
is.
Wjibil lA'Gf <ji\ Loi l lii' r', i\d. 11.
List of Prizes and Clanks. '
ioid day's Drawing—June 24.
No. Dols. No. Dots. No. Dolt. No. Dots.
li 4 13829 *JI39 xo 35247
*9* 94 7 442 7°7
799 10
160 a 449 524 848
930 641 10 651 857
2313 10 940 lo 802 37246
351 978 26005 423 10
748 10 1J177 *4l 451
798 721 10 746 46;
3264 818 27080 38442
417 10 16548 482 39140 10
4074 67$ 562 757 10
294 17078 28412 10 40272 „
472 469 5C4 604
508 713 10 19119 100 4117$ 10
5894 75 1 '77 229
6196 18076 677 420
365 623 10 7/8 909 10
400 657 10 832 10 42225 %Q
441 983 913 479
7779 994 »o 43050
799 >9544 513"I" 393
8583 lo 6oj 816 792
92i6 798 906 44050
485 10 10005 10 31*060 66 5 ro
5 6 ' 334 N 306 45187
967 10 352 54t 908
10566 470 xo 666 46264
780 964 673 10 47025
980 10 21020 904 135 10
uc66 744 32199 10 228 10
133 903 480 ie 3sl xo
172 10 21791 711 48817
717 23203 33049 49801
12*27 546 428 881
518 24058 10 34374 991 Ic
778 10 19* 777 xo
12290 10 768 10 804 10
103 d Day's Drawing—June 26.
106 I"5048 27903 10 291 10
159 10 268 28506 39022
160 829 586 289
179 16581 30329 387
»J3 616 10 551 20 585
347 *7594 31549 xo 832
x 200 18824 762 878
405 19225 * 32872 40458
2x59 869 20 33135 794
708 xo 20652 20' 845 41534
3859 977 xo 34228 42881
,>• 905 *1360 xo 634 438*1
4066 10 47« 10 35192 44630 10
6607 22201 10 470 10 45105
7024 849 708 706
9436 23128 36314 900
495 *5*99 3»3 46562 50
538 xo 322 10 532 851
826 825 627 47658 10
10314 86 5 651 xo 847
470 xo 27*81' 883 48294 10
12324 896 887 297
13001 10 27181 J73&0 900 xo
674 521 764 49083
14946 906 38167 10 912 10
terrors in the 90th day's drawing, inflead of
43270 blank, read 43270 10 dol. in 99th day
inllead ol 1169 xo read 11169 xo —in iceth
day's inflead of 10796 blank read 15796 Viank,
in xoift ' ay inftcad of 9495 blank read 9494
blank, and infleal of 32491 blank read 32491
blank.
STATE TRIALS.
Sold by W.Youno, Bookseller, No. 52, South Se
cond-flrect,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtainipg the impeachment, trial, and acquit
al of Francis Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
era!—ln one large 8 Vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Young ha> for fate, a general affortmentof
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
age, well assorted, and entitled to the drawback if
exported. July 7 —*
NEW THEATRE. "
For three weeks only.
On FRIDAY Evening, July 7,
Will be presented a new COMEIJY, called
The Way to get Married.
To which will be added, a COMIC OPERA, in
two a6ts, called
LOCK AND KEY.
The "doors of the Theatre will be fix
oVlock, and the curtain rife at seven prccifely.
Mr. Fox's Night will be on Monday.
%» Mrs Francis's Night will be on Wednesday
For Hamburgh,
c H aT LOT T E,
C. F. Danenbe+ger, Master.
WILL be ready to receive the cargo in a few
days, and n afaft failing (launch, good vei
fe), well (©mid-—For freight or paffagc, apply to
George Pennock,
No. 103, Market-Jlreet.
J u! Y 7- ' 3aw3',v
CAUTION. ™"
WHEREAS William Shannon, Auft'-
oneer, hath, in Claypoole's American
Daily Adverser of this day, adverifed for public
sale, on 10 n orrow the i!th inflant, a .apital
building Lot, 011 the north fide of Mulberrv
flreeti between Sixth and Seventh fttreeis, bound
ed and otherwise described as in the said adver
tisement is mentioned—All pc/i'ons are hereby
cautioned not to purchafrthe fame, as the*quit
table title thereto is veft?d in the Prefidest, Di
reiSlors, and Company of the Bank ef the United
States, who mean to proceed at law for the" re
covery thereof.
By ordtr of the DireiHors,
George Sjmfi/on, Cajhier.
July 7.1 ' dat..
j GAZETTE MARINE LISl*
j Pour of PM LADELfiHIA,
ARRIVED. DAYS.
Schi*. Boston, Clarkj Gonaives 19
Sloop Patience, Willis. New-York 6
Ship Glasgow, Barry, from Cadiz ; and
a brig (name unknown) are below.
Two drips were seen (binding in for tW
Capes on Monday last-
Capt. Clark, of lioflon, left at Gonaives,
Brig, Ana, Moffat, of tHis po'rtj to fail soon
Schr. Patriot, Hatfimet,' do. do.
Hawk, Brown, do. arrived tfiat day
Voluptuous,——, Baltimore
Ship Pattern, -t , New-York
j 80/loti, June 3.0.
I Arrived br'g Fricnd't-.ip, Eames, 53 difys from
Bourdeaux. Spofce, lat. 44, 50, long. 41, brig Ju
no, Hate, from Bnilol to: Baltimore, 33 days out ;
alio in lat. , 60, brig Neptune, Barr, from
Bourdeaax-'for Ssfem, 4a d*ys out.
July I—Arrived fchoc'ner Royal Fufijier, Miller,
9 days from Halifax. Spoke 1 days since, brig E-
Jiza, Graves, 36 days from Cadiz for this port.
July a—Arrived ship Mermaid, Tilton, SS day.
from Cadiz. Left there, ship Foxwell,, Staph civ*,
| Pepperclborough ; Otfwego, Hacke'r, New' York:
brig Indtiftry, of Boston, jult arrived. Spoke in
' at 45.18, fori;'. 43, ship Phoenix of Baltimore,3s
days from Bremen.
Capt. Tilton passed the Britilh fleet, before Ca
diz, and was boarded by the IrrefilUble ; the com
mander of which informed capt. T. tnat the Span
ish admiral Mafiarylo, by a flag of the rft'of May,
mentioned ihe hopes of admiral Jervis Leinjj fdou
in Cadiz, in the character of a friend ; he also in
formed capt. T. in cafe of the prolongation of the
war, the Spaniards were determined to rifle anoth
er engagement, and that admiral Maffarado would
be ready, in about a month, with 30 £ sos the
line—the Britifli fleet, off Cadiz, is 20 fail of the
line, among them 8 three deckers.
The joth April, two frigates from the Havan
nah, pafied the Efiglifh fleet, but were afterwards
difcevered bj the reconnoitreing ships, and after a
fliort contest,. were driven oil fliore—one of them,
the Nymph, was got off again, with littli damage,
on board of which was the famous Mr. Muir, who
was dangeroafly wounded in the en^ag'ement.
Same day arrived schooner Federal George,
Sampson, of Duxbury, 44 days from Bourdeaux.
Spoke nothing—brought no lift.
This msraing arrived brig Eliza, Groves, 44
days from Cadiz, i ichr fromLifbon, and fchr. Bet
sy, Lincoln, days from Ncw-Providence—in
forms, that the Maria, Hatch, was cleared, waiting
for harids to proceed home.
Ships Delaware, and Berkley, have arrived at
New Bedford, from a long whale voyage : the for
mer 700, the latter 1400 bljls. oil. The Delaware,
left the following ships on the Brazil coast, 20th
March last, viz. fliip , Pollard, of Boftoa,
lioobbls. Portland, Barnard, 800; Lion, A. Bar
nard, 700 j Brothers, Coffin, 600 ; Cato, Swain,
Jooo; Rebecca, Long, 850 bbls. all of Nantucket.
The season has been so rugged at Brazil, that but
few whales have been saved oat of vast numbers
which have been killed.
PRICES OF STOCKS.
6*per Cent. 16/B\l*tir
i per C«nt. 10 / a fcf off
Deferred 6 per Cent. 13/3 i u/4
BANK United States, dividend off I4perct.
Pennfylvania, do. %%
—— Nortli America, 50
Infuranee Comp. N. A Ihares jo
Pennfylvania, 4a 5 per ct. adv.
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 3P days par
————— at 60 days 65
————— at 90 days 61
Amftesdam, per guilder 40
90 days 4a
Bush-Hill.
PHE Public are refpe&fully informed that the
A Gardens will be open
Thursday Evening, 6th, and Saturday, Bth
With a Concert of Vocal and inflrumental Mil
lie, after the marker of the pub ic gardens, Paris,
London, etc.
i Focal Perfumer: —MeCVs. Darley, fen. Dar
liv, jun. and Miss Buoadhurst.
Irtjirumcntal.—Mcffrs. Hopeficld, W«lfe,Mucke,
Homan, Brooke, Shetky, Petit, Oecabluth, Morel,
Declary, etc. Organijl—Mr. B. Carr.
Admittance,half a dollar.
I'he Gardens to be opened at fix o'clock, and the
Concert to begin at seven.
*,* Tickets to be had ar.d Boxes to be taken at
Mr. CarrV Music-store, Markct-fbeet.
N. B. Tickets of general admittance. f»r the sea
son to be had for twelve dollars each, at the bar of
the Bush-Hill tavern.
J"'ys- .
LANDING,
At Walnut-ftfset wharf, from on boad (hip Man
chcßer, Benj. Slit well, mailer, from Bourdeaux,
Bourdeaux Brandy
Old Claret in hhds.
Medoc Wine in cases
Sauterne do. do.
For Sale by
Thomas Murgatroyd,
No. 11, Walnut-Jlreet,
Said Ship for Freight or Charter,
Burthen nBo tohs, Philadelphia
built of live Oak and Cedar, will
r^d y tn a cw day».
Apply ai above. j
July s- i mw f
Received by the Indoftan, ""
From Madrai,
A SMALL invoice cor.iifting of the following
Coafl Goods, viz.
Blue Cloths
Long Cbths, 14 punjunu
Do. do. Srie
Madrafs Handkerchief", and
Book M uflins
WILLING W FRANCIS.
March 27. 3aw
VVindow Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the City—
OF FAMOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to 19 by 44,
By the single Box or Quanti'.y, may be had at the
S ore of the Subicribers, corner of Arch and Front*
lUcct.
James C. O 3 Samuel IV.Fijher.
Philadelphia, Jme g, 1797.
FOR SA^E,
By Simon Walker,
No, 122, South Fourth-Street,
GOI.D and silver Watches
Shot, comqion aad patent
Tin Plates, Sheet Iron
Bar and Iheet Lead
1 Copper iheet3 and bottoms
Tauaton Ale
Ravens Duck
Hats in cases
Wool Cards
Claret Wine and Porter Eottleain hampers
Ju!y I. e«j>vSamuel 8c Mici-S FHher, T
Ho. 27, DofJ-.-ftreet»
slave jnji received per Abigail, Bqbtcci, si cin
Belfast,
IRISH Cambricks, inboncs of, 40 pieces
and 80 patches, each fortcd up to 5j *'
fitrling per yard.
They have alp received pj
7-S & 4-4 Irtfh Linens well alTort'.d t ],
Dowlas and Sheetings, si
which will be fold for ready money, 01:fhort ol
credit, on moderate terras ; togctliei' with ta
a general assortment of Spring Goods as u
ufaal.—Jlfo, . b .
Hunter's Pipes in boxes t ]
An afiortment of Queens' \Vat-c in crates t |
An afjortment of Glass Ware in calks and f<
crates
T. Crowley, Mi'ifington, Steel
Cargo & London particular TenerilTe Wine 6 i
Lisbon Wine of excellent quality
Superior Sherry Wises ~
Patent Sheathing paper.
A few small bales fine Cloths neatly affoVt
ed, and two bales afTotted Flannels, to be
(bid per package.
Juic 9. 3 taw 6w a
* :7 * r
Millinery Room, *
Ao. I 56 Marht-Jlreet. '
MISJ CHRYSTAL _ _ j
TAXES an eajfyoppoftt v iiy of acquainting
her Friends that she hl» received by the
William Penn, a variety of NEW MJL
LINSRY, &c. which she hopes to be able to j.
lhew them in a few dayi.
May 18 s.lot
To be fold,
The time of a stout hearty young NEGRO MAN,
who has upwards of four years to serve. Enquire
ut No. ij, Dock-street.
June 13. d2vr I
_
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for laic by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front street,
Hyson
Hyson Jkin
Yfcurig Hyson ( >
• Imperial 3
April jo. eotf 1
- <
A New Work.
Proposals \
printing ind publi(hing, by fubfcripiioo, The
History of Permfylvania, ;
T N Norih- America, from the original institution and ,
i reitlemcfK ot- ihat province, nnd« the firft pfopri-
eior and governor, William Penn, in 1681, 'till
after the yew I 7 4 ?;
AN INTRODUCTION
RefpcA»ng the Lifffof "VvTENN,
Prior to »hc g'ant 0/ that Province, and the
Society of the people called Quakers; with tue '
f IKS!* RISE of the NEIGHBORING COLONIES, 1
p2.rt4c*j'arly oJ WES I-NEW-JKRSE'Y, and the
Seitlemcnt oi the PUTCH and o«i DEL A*
W .ARE.
To which issdded.
A 3RIEF DESCRIPTION OF Ttf£sAlD PRO
VINCE,
And of the general i.4 which it flouiifhed,
prine pallv between the years 1760 and 1770. T,'hc<
whole including a varietv of tiling, ufeful and in
terdting to be known, refptcting that country incarjy (
time, See. With an appendi;;.
Writien principally between the yeara 1776 and 1780,
By Rcbfrt Proud.
44 Pie!churn eft le reipublic#, etiam benedicere
baud abjutdum ejl, vel pace vel bello da rum fa i licet**
j at. Catalin.
"Sedcum pier; que arbitrentur res bell teas major es effc
q'iim urbanas, minuendtefi Jiacopinio."
Cic. Off.
(Fntered according to law.)
44 WILLIAM'PENN, the great legislator of the
Quaker*, (in PcnnfyliMnia) had the success of a con*
queror, in establishing and defending h s colony, a.
mong savage tribes, without qver drawing the sword ;
the goodoeit of the moil benevolent rulers, in trea
ting his fubjeOs as liis own children ; and the tender
nefsof an umverfal father, who opened his arms to
all mankind without difon&ion of fe6k or party. In
his Republic it was not bis religious creed, but per
sonal nicrit, that entitled every member ot society to
the protect ion and emolument of the State'"
Elfoy on ' Trieration, by Arthur o'Leary.
. " CONDITION'S.
I. This work will be primed in two o&avo vol
umes, neatly bound and lettered, both in sheep and
calf, Tor the choice of the fubferi hers; on paper simi
lar to that of the conditions, as pubnfhcd in theSubfcrip
tion papers.
11. The head of William Penn, hancUomely en
graved, will be prefixed to thp firft, an 4 a map or
ikietch oF Pennlylvania, and the parts acljacent, to the
i'lonr.d volume
lll* The price to fubftribers will be four dollars
and an half in Iheep. and five ooiUrs in calf;—one
dollar to be paid at the time of fubfc*ibing, two dol
lars on the delivery of the fujl vtlumc, and tbe re
mainder on the delivery of the second.
IV. When one thoufat.d copies are fubferibed
for, the work will be out u> press aod finiflied with
ail convenient expedition.
Subscriptions will be received by Zachaiiah Poul
fon, jun.. Printer, No. 80, Chefuut-Areet, and the
Philadrlphia Library in
lins Piinter, and Jafcph James, Merchant, New-
York; by J-jhn P. Pleafinfs and Gt W. Field,
Merchants. Baltimore; and by other persons both
in town and country.
Februa*v 18. tu&f
An elegant House in Arch-street.
TO be let and entered on immediately, a large and
elegant House at the corner of Arch and Ninth street.
There arc tw© drawing rooms and'one dining room j
—the largest is 31 feet by 26~and two arc so con
nected by folding door'; as to mike but one. Also,
five bed rooms, beside five in the ganet, well fmifh
ed for servants. There are fteblcs and a eoac houle,
with every convenience for a family. Lpq'ii'rc at No.
•9, in North Seventh street, or at No. 218, Arch
ftreet.
AHoto be rented *or the summer season, a r nail
neat house and garden about 3 t-2 miles from the
citv, with llablcs and coacn house. Enquire as above.
June 6. 2aw3w
Wanted on Rent,
WITHIN seven miles of Philadelphia, a
convenient lienfe w'th a Garden, fait**
Wc'fer tile actornmod <.ion of a genteel small fa
mily, for which a fuitahle rent will be given.
Any pcrfon havi ,g such an. one to let, will be
plesfcd to leave iiiformatioE of the fituaticn and
cerms at No. 43) North Third street.
June at. eo^t
frnrKNEY's patent arch bridge
"n NY perfen dtfrrous of information refptfl
i\ ing this new cenftniifjori, may obtain it
without ddaybv application pr. letter, or oth
erfcifc, to John Stickney, merchant of Worces
ter, (Maflachufttts) who wilt make kfeown
the many advantages arising from this manner
of building, and upon application he v ill either
vwnd a parent right, or attend pq fonally to fu
»cri»t,end the building of any bridge required.
Juiie io, 1797* *eoiw.
To be fold f Vendue, 4
To tbe highelt bidder, at the hobfe ef Mr.
William Evjtis, tl e fjgp of th-i Indi;..
Quern, in the city of Baltimore, on tl.e
day of Oilober next, ai it o'clock, A. M
About seven thouUnd a. res of Ir,njj,
»heproperty of William "ell, of I'hiUdclpliU,
'ly : ug between HeillerVtowt} and Vv ethninJlcr,
commoiily called tittle Wir.thcftcr, (the turn
pike road riirib through & cocftdoralve part of
these lands) the tras begina about 17 miles
frora.Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
of laid Reifter's-town, and e-atettds to ihe d 1-
tance of aUejjt tweii"y-three miles from Balti
more, arid lias on the main tails of Patapfico
! river, from Jhrjc to four miles thefeon, Will
be fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to
three huijdred Icre. There is a' large propor
tion of meadow and wood laud on each trail,
fcmr of them highly improved, with excellent
buildifigs and fine grift.
AISO,
A tra& of feveit hundred acres of
land,' called Clover Farms, ivithin fivq miles of
B'idenfliurg, efteenied very good for Grass. /
ftichard Ponfonby,of BladenJbuigh, wilt ftiew
lliis land to any perl'on inclined to purchase.
also.
A traft of land ®f about three hun- ,
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a half o the Prefwent's house in the Fede- S
ral Cily. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high prcfpedl, from which may be fcen the
ci(y of VVafhington, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and a' part of George-tawn, and many miles '
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Por.fon- 1
by, of Bladenfburg, wUI also ihevv this land. j
A liberal credit will be given for the greatest
part of the purchase money. The terms will
be made known on the day of Tale.
May 8 w^rr.
Printed Calicoes. 1
JOHN MILLER, Jud. & Cp.
Ne. 8 Cbefnut-Street,
Have for Sale I
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly aflorteJ, very low on 1
(hort credit. }
March 6. $
Advertisement.
PURSUANT ta an Order /t orn tie Orphan" Court,
ivill abf'utely be fold at PUBLIC SALE, at
Cranberry, tn IVtdrtefday, the ftjrf Jay of Auguf. next, at
II o'clock, A JW, all that valuable REAL ES'TATE,
late belonging to tie Rev. Gilbert T. Snozvde-j, deed2fed,
lyutr in and near Cranberry, it the county of Nliddlfex,
tjivnjbip of South' Brunfwick, Hate of New Jcrfy, u p
on the lower flnge road leading from Philadelphia to New
Tori. A very framehoufe in a becutful and
healthy filiation, Rallied white, -with Vtnetian -window
flutters, thirty * feet front and thirty eight feet deep, tivo
rooms •with a handsome ball or entry on the sirs Jtabr,
three rooms on the seCond floor and two xuell-fnifbed gar
rets. In the rear of the louse is an excellent twe-fory
building jVJ sett by I<J, confiding of a dining-room for
work people, spacious pantries and a largf kitcheri, with
every convenience, and over these are three chambers for
servants. To the right is an additional building 18 fact
front by 19 feet deep, conftfingof « chamber below and a
library above —under the whole are very fne cellars paved
•with brick and conveniently partitioned. The house is en
tirely neru, built in a modern fybe, and completely and e
legantly finijhed. Every rcom is hung with bells that
lead both to the kitchen and the servants* apartments: there
is a pump of good •water in the yan{ ; and a fone and
brick pavement round the -whole house, •which is enclof ■
ed Iwith a handsome railing, with three gates in front.
The farm conffs of one hundred and sixty seven acres
ivith a proportion of woodland and meadow, under excel
lent fence ; a garden with pale fence ; a large barn, fa
bles, taryiage-houfi, eo-.v-houfes, all «n», and built
in the befl manner ■ with two Orchards, one of to fall 1
grown frets, the oiber is young and thriyingf conffting of
i. 100 hfl grafted fruit trees.
Ntdrly adjoining JhiJ farm is a lot of Woodland,
rf the best quality, containing 37 acr es. Alft a traSl of
land within seven mihr rf Cra-berry, and 1 of the Cross
Koath, containing one hundred and fifty acres, three-fourths
meadow* and the reft excellent timber.
This Trait will be fold in lots on Tburfday, tbe 24th
day of Augufl following, at II 0 clock, A l\f, on the
p rem'fee if tbe weather permits, if not at tic house of ■
Air. Wither ill, Cross Roads.
For further particulars enquire of Nathaniel Hunt, esq.
Cranberryj of Mr. Isaac Snowden,jun. No. 141 South
Second Street, Philadelphia, or of Mr* Charles Snowden
Tontine Coffee'Houfe, New York, or of 'thefubferibers.
ISA AC SNOWDEN,Prinfct<m\ j, -n 4
JACOB FISHER, Crar berry 1
N. B. Pbe sale of the above property was aavertixed
for tbe 14 th inf. but the Adtniniflrators were not able to
get tbe far# separate Traits laid out into Lots, and other
matters arranged, on account of the indifpofttion of one tf
thevt, it was therefore adjourned to tbe days above mention
ed. §6tmwft.f J une 19*
A Literary Treat.
JuJl pubhjhed, hatuifomely printed on writing
paper, price l dollar,
A new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, entitled
THE FOTRESTERS, an American Tale ; being
a f<?juel to the hiftoty of John Bull, the Clo
thier—ln aferiesof letters to a friepd, with thead
' dition of two letters, alluding to recent political
: tranfa£lion« in America.
Th« following extradl from the Clavis Allegorica,
fijews the principal characters that ar.e introduced:
I John Bull, the Kingdom of I celand
Hi> Mother, theClurchof England
His Wife, the Parliament
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland
e His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis, the K ngdom of France
Hi* Mitlref., the Old Conllitution
, His new Wife, the National Rcprefentation
li I.ord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
Tha Franks, the French Republic
T he Foresters, the United States of America
Robert Lumber, New-Hampfiiire
J John Codlirie, Massachusetts
t. Humphrey 'Plow (fiare, Cf-nneilicut
n Roger Carrier, Rhode lfland
1- Pettr Bull Frog, New-York
>. Julius Cafar, Niw-Jerfey
William Broadbrim, penfcfylvania
r > Caffimar, Delaware
'• Walter Vipewood, Virginia
Hi.. Granofon, George Walhington
Peter Pitch, North Carolina
Charles luaigo, iontkCarolina
George Trutly, Georgia (
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
_ Hunter Longknife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves
Rat*, .--peculator,
a Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
J- This popular and entertainingfatiricalhiflo
-- ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr Bel
a. knap. It hasa great share of originality and a
>e bounds with genuine Ivamour. It is continued
(} down to the prefetlt time, and charailerifes thote
late pi:' ticai tranfaftiens which have caused so
much in America.
Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, Nix. 16,
Street, ar.dNo. 50, Marke' ftjeef
| June i'>. $
it j JzO Published,
And to be had of Messrs. Dol f«n, Campbell,Rice,
, Cary, and the ether priiipal Booksellers io the
n | city,price one dollar, iwmty-Cve cents,in boards,
; r New Views of the Origin of the
!-j - Tribes and Nations of America.
1. j By BENJAMIN SMUH BARTON, m. d.
j June. zc.
45>c0l pieces or Kanlt.6em;
aj© boxei brown MavaLnali Sufi's
Impuvial Hyfon'lV^s
y 7 tubs Qgick Silver
Sail Canvas, No. i a 8
A large aliortHiert oi'Nails.fborp ssu* flat points
Ware, welt assorted in crates and hhds.
Lo, l oouPar i: ci'.ar i « : d-) Ma4(iraW ir.« &
Ineha Market J
1 cneriffe Wine in' bhda. and pipes
Bottled London Porter in tierces
Fit.e \ 6»low Ffcint, dry in calks
Writing Slates in boxes an A bundles
A bos of ink Stands and Net<c Preltes
Mancheucr Goods in clefts
3 trunks bhick Sewing iiiik
6 tens ot" Shc<?t Lead
Be£ Liverpo6lCoal, nij£
A quantity cf Wine Bottle*
For Sale by '
Philip Nickiitiy iff Co.
Juue i 4. 2tawtf t
New Hat and Hosiery Store. t
Jnjl Imported, 3
In tbeJriipi William Petw and Star,from Louden, and ~
r.oiv opening by 5
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
AT his new Hat and Hosiery Store, No. 134, t
Market street t
An elegant afforrmeiH ot silk, c6tton ani thread j.
Stockings
Silk, cotton an£ thread Glomes
Pantaloons, &.C. &c.
Likewise, a handsome affprtment 01 men's, wo
men's, and children's fafliionable H*ts, fujtablcfor
the Season. "
A considerable quantity of low and middle priced
Hats alTorted in cases, intended for country ft ©res.
May 23. taw j
To Let,
THE BUILDING now occupied by the Bank ,
of i»i Unitib Statu. For terms en
quire of Edward Garrigues, No- 39, Cherry-ftroet.
N. B. Also a large, convenient Cellar in a good
Ctuation : Apply as above.
June 15 60t f
■ ' .... ~
C O T T O N.
A few bales toft arrived, for lale by
JOHN CLARK,
Ko. 55 North Water Street.
June 101 eolt I
T! j... •' ■■ ■ ■ - .. .. —
Young Hylon 1 ea.
40 cliefts of a superior quality—Alio,
joo do.of Hylon,
Imported in the '//njrop Sims, and for sale by
the fublvribers, corner of Second and Pine
street.
C' Haigbt,
June at. ■ eo 'f
Davis's l-Aw Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GE O R G E DAVIS,
BEING buGed for fopte time pad in prepara
tions for removing into his prelent house, has
been under thenecoiTityof poftponinjjuntil this Jay
informing the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro'
the United States that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for lale, on
terms that he trusts will entitle him to the like pre
ference he has experienced for leyeral years past.
Catalogues, ceh.biring the moll varied collec
tion ever imported icto this country, are pointed
and will be defivered on application.
June 27. saw 6w
LAW BOOKST
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. Iff P. RICE, BcokftUers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the late arrivals from
London and Dublin, their spring importa
r -tioa, confiding ef a variety of th<j lajeli and mod
"approved Law Books, which, added to those alrea
. dy on hand, forms the moll ettenGve collection ev
> cr offered for sale In this country. They th>l efore
, beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their
conne<2icnsin Dublin, they ar« enabled to felllrilh
editions (as they have hitherto dor.e) at the very
' lowed prices. The following are among the latest
i publications.
c VeJcy, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1 vols,
r Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; R.idgeway.'s Rejcrts
f in the time of Lord Hardwire ; Kuyer's Probers
- Pradice in the Eccfefiaftical Courts; Barton's
Treatise on a Suit in E-quity; Tidd's Pi a&ice of
the Court of King's Bencli in Personal A&ions,a
parts, complete ; Ward s Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, 11 vols. Londpn edi
' tion.
H. and P. Rice cxpeift t® receive by the firft ar
; rival from Wew-Y«rk the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, the id part of Gil-
J bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
- new publications.
June 16.
,1
Jay's Inftrudi,ons.
On MONDAY lafl, was publijhed,
By SNOWDEN & M'CORKLE,
No. 47, Kortb Fourth Street,
And to be haa of the principal BOOKSELLERS,
No. V,
Of the Hijlory of the United States
for 1796, £sV.
This and the preceding number present the pub
lic with a copy' of Jay'. Instructions, a per
j formance- anxloully concealed hy the Executive
from the House ol Reprcfentatives, and the con
tents of which have esci?ed the mod ardent curio
sity.
This number likewise contains some Jtaxulajr and
authentic papers relative to Mr. Alexander Hamil
trn, late Secretary of the Treasury. No greater
proof can be given ot the value which he has at
tached to their fufprcjjian, than the following anec
dote.
a During the lativ c?r.vsf- for the eleclipn of a
" Prtfident, Wehfter, iu his Minerva, gaveahint,
" that Mr. Hamilton would be an advifeable can
" dictate. A perftm in this city, who chaiiccd to
" lee this newfpajier,. wrqte immediately to a cor
" refpondert in New-Yorl;. The letter desired him
" to put hiinfclf in Mr- Hamiltoir's way, and in
" form him, that if Webft< r fliould, lit future, print
" a fiugle parajrraph oh that head, the papers rtfer
0. "Ed to were, inilantly, to Hi laid before the world.
" 'The rwjfittre was dthwredtq Mr. Hamilton, and tbe
a " l\linerva iceamcjtla.t /"
, ( J Juue 24. tawaw
so This Day is Pubiifhed,
And sold ly H. li J. fiJMMEKTR, jun. No.
24, North Th'trd-jlrcef, also, hy Mr. Hex
kt S SPRITZER, No. 85, Race-flrcct,
(Price half a Doiiar fieall y'bouhdj
The Man of real Sensibility ;
*' Or, The HISTORY OF SIR G. ELLISON'.
y c Found/d on Fad. ;
lS ' 1 Tbe elegant Editioo of the Elements of Moral
[£ ity t i« two vols, illustrated with twenty copper
piatef, may also be had as above, price, f*ll bound
and gilt, iwo dollars and Eft.y cents,
Ht<\. K junrs. hsveon band » qrsnl% C Hg. 1
and 2 Paper.
City of j
."S C HEME \L
Of the Lottery, i\ T o. 11, ( n
For the Improvement of the FfderA City. J
A magnificent (i jveljing'-hpufe ,io,ooo dojlars,
*; calh 33,000, ire 50,000 tie
1 ditto 15,000 & U'i 15,000 40,000 cc
1 ditto 15,000 Sc cath 15,00*1 30,000 fc
1 ditto 10,000 & ca(h 10, poo 10,990 c;
I ditto 5,000 caiji 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 1c caih 5,00,0 10,000
1 calh prize cf 10,099 4;
1 do. 5,000 eich.'at.e * 10,000, n
10 do. 1,000 - - to,ooc
»o do. 500 -,1 - 10,000
00 do. lop - - 10,000 g
100 do. 50 • - 10,000 u
400 do. 15 - - 10,000 '
1,000 do. »o - 10,090 -
do. 10 - >50,000
t«i739 Pnizes. 1
33,1 it Bhftka. J
" 0
50, opp Tickets, at EjgM DolU", 400,09 c r
N. B. Tofavour thofc whs may take a quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 46,090 dollars will be
the la9t drawn ticliet, and the 30,000 the last .
but'uNE :, • _ . . r
And approved notes, securing paymer-t in either
.r.ongy cr prizes, in ten drawing, will
be received ifoi any number not less tiian 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of t
the private buildings to be ereited in the City of
Walhington—Two beautiful designs are already J
teljsAed for the entire fronts on two of the public t
squires ; from these drawings it ispropofijd toerect t
two'centreand f our corner bai|di*gs,as soon as pof- 1
fible after this lottery is fold, aud to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in 1
'he manner deferibed in the fchame for the Hotel 1
Lottery. A nett de^'JCt' 0 " °f fi ve p er ctnt - w >)'
be made to defray the nece(Tary expgnfes of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of •
the fund ihtwnded for the National University, to
be erected within the city of Walhington.
The fecinitiesgiyen for the payment of the
grizes, Itc held by the Profident and two Direct
ors of tilt Ban!; of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
SS.MUEL BLQVGET.
.5. Tickets may be had at the Bank oi Colam
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Sa'-'.itnore ; of Feter
Gilman, Boston : of John Hsgki!'?, Ritluj'.ond ;
and of Richard W»Jls, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
C. E. Whitlock,
DENTIST,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of Philadelphia and its vicinity, that he
continues lo perform all operations ou theTfi th ; sup
plies the deficiencies of nature with artificial leal
teeth, in aif the various modes of fixing —Cleans,
files, regulates, extrafts, and fills decayed teeth wiih
gold or lead, ire- &c. Hf ,waits upon Ladies and
Gentlemen at iheir hou'es, and be happy to re
ceive their by note, at Mrs. Finch's, No.
68 noitb Eighth street, or at his house. next 10 the
' Black HorfeTavern, on the Frankford road.
Dollars.
Scaling and cleaning 5
f Artifieialteeth, with enamel, per tooth, 5
l Do. in gold sockets or lcrewj 7
. Natural teeth witji hgariirej 7
Do. on gold or ivory Ipcketi, pr gold fcrey? ro
Filing and cu sing away decay—each decay 1
1 FilKngwilhgolit ®
Uo. with lead 1
the faicijtcj whoemp.'oy hinj
ai dcoiiit) »
Do. where not employed ( »
Tooth powder of his own preparing \
\ Rrilftics, best London manufaau,re 25 cents.
Rceulating, &c. accordiuj to Ihe operatiofl.
*.* C Whitiock will (ell the tiipjc of a
Man ; —he is honed and sob n r, and has about j years
and a to fen c. Enquire as above.
J June 15 : * t,htf
| Lanca'hr, licirrijburg Carljle,
Shippenfburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
1 r T~ I HE public are req-uelled to take notice, th?t
r L the partnerlhip which has far some timd sub
: lliV-d bttweon Mathias Slough of and
William Geer, is uow diffplvcd ; bi,if, not as M.
. Slough insinuates to the public without just cause ;
1 as will more fully appear by a tetter on the fuS
s jefl from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
s December last. a recitalof which i» not now deem
£ ed neceflai;y. Auy gentlegtau who wifljes to be
1 more circiimflantiaVty of tbe merits of
e this buDrtefs, by applying to \7. Geer may have
- the perusal ef M. Slough's letter, at(d then can
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
- is not p'ecfo&fy jnftifiabli; in attacbing hSm
f felf to aDy other person in the ptofefution of thp
Stage con veyanc: from to SbippenC
if urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe libiral arul peheroUs support the
public were pleafcd to confer on the firft effort in
- this business, William Geer, in conjyncflion with
MeiTrs. Reily, Weed; and W,i'.tner, is determined
ta prolecute and <;arry it on, with ev.ery care, at
tcnt cn anddifpatch that a zeal to oblige tin; pub
lic can poflibly exert.
Tbe above company, who are amply provided
with carriage;, hoifes, and every appurtenance to
i, t-ender t,he passage fafe and coninjodio'js, inform
thole wnu wiih ro patronize anij encourage the
urtdertaking, that they can take their feats
S George W'eed's, the flgn of tfie H(«rfe,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster,
Carlfile and Slfippeofburg. Th?, fare as hitherto
\ eft blifhed.
For the further accommedatioi} of the public,
a Stage will dart every Wedncfday from the hcufe
'* of Samuel lUder, in Harrifiiurg. arrive at Sun
, bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
, and return from theoce and arrive at Hattifburg*
tveiy Saturday, so tkat palfejigers dedined for
Lancaster cr Philadelphia, may proceed oai Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
a Lancaster, Jan. 17, 1797-
t N. B. This Line 0t Stages starts from ths
house of William Ffii in Lancaster, on every
• 8 Tuefday-.'.lid Saturday morr.ing at 6 o'cloek, pro- •
t*. ceeding to the westward; and !rom the house of
„* Mr. Siimncl Elder in Harriiburg every Wednef
j. day morning, 011 the fan-.e fevenlag arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Sbippenfbuig, and returns
r _ from tlience on every Thursday: ::g, IIIQ
d fame routine daily as in its tout fro/11 FliiUi!< 1-
Z phia: "- 1 w 1
A Cow Stolen
~ TT 1 ROM the owner at th,e corner of Ninth
| and Arch Streets. She is a deep red
o- brindle with, some v.jiite, ahout ten years
Y- old and very gentle. The person v. ha Se
cretes her had best turn, her out, as, if kgal
evidence can be obtained, lie may. expert a
rigorous prosecution, TffQ bOLLARS
reward will be to any person who wid
deliver the Cow, or give fach evidence a
:r- gainst th,e person keeping her, that he may.
• d be cor.viaed of the fajft'. Apply at
No. ij 8,• 'As'ei Street.
June 9, tawjw
William Blackburn, . J
I,OTTEIir and BROKER'S OFFIC\ 1
No. 64 Xcuth Second street.
TICKETS iflthc Can»lLottery, No. 11, which
commerced drawing the 29th May, FQP
SALE. Viic price of tickets will rife in propor
tion at the driwing advancts, particularly on ac
count of the five tirft drawn tickets, prizes of
four thqufand dollar:. each,,on the la.lt day of
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination and regifler
ing, in the Car.jl, No. e, City of WaQiington, No. 1
1, and Paterfon Lotteries. |
Alio, tickets foriirle in the Schuylkill bridge and
Pefkiomen Bridge lotteries, which will begin 1
drawing in the course of the fummcr. jM
Tl,e fcufiaefs of a Broker in ail,kinds of Stock,
Bills, Note», Lands, &c- &c. tranfafled with the
utrnoft a:tenti#n.
Junea tu -*• f fl
THE FOLLOWING VALUABC^
Tradts ps Land,
IN the co\uwty of Glynn and slate of QeorgiS,
will be fpld by public sale, at eight o'clocjt
on the evening of Tuesday the 27th clay of June
next, at (he Merchants Coffee-Houie in this ci
ty, unless previously disposed of by private sale.
ift. 7000 acres on St. Simons Sound at th* 4
confluence of Fredccica and Turtle rivers, ad
joining the commons of the town of Bmnfwick,
originally granted to John Howell, and withia'
6 n ileS of the Atlantic ocean. *
id. 15,000 acres on the head waters of»
branch of the great Sattilla, originally granted
to Ferdinand O'Neal.
3d. 50,000 acres cn the waters of the little
Satilla river, and of Buffaloe and Alexanders
Creeks ; the great Satiila road pafles through
these lands, which \yere originally "ranted to
Ferdinand O'Neal.
which are also interfered by a branch of tlif i
little Satilla, and were originally grated ten I
Thomas Spalding.
Jt appears by authentic certificates from J
Davis, surveyor, and from Major
Hopjuns npw relidir.g in Philadelphia, that the 1
body of these lands are not thirty miles from
the ocean, and principally within tide \yater :
that the Alatamaha is navigable for boats and
rafts two hundred miles above, and for larger *
vessels within ftn miles of them ; that they are
chiefly firft rate pine lapds, producing timber
equal in quality to any in the ilate of Georgia,
ppfltjfiug the lame advantages of nawgaiiah.
The abovementioned certiQcaj.es, tpgeuier with
the patents, drafts, andother papers refpeiSiing
the title, which is complete and unincumbered, '
are in the poftfiion of the fnKcribers and mav
be seen by applying to Benjamin R. at
No. 41 Mulberry Street. The terms of pay
ment wik be one third cash, the remaining two
in good negotiable endors'd notes, paya
ble in three and fix mopths after the sale • a
conveyance"to be made to each pijrchaltr od the
payment of that moiety of the notes icceived
from him which becomes firft due.
THOMAS FITZSIMONS,
JEREMIAH PARKER,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN.
Philadelphia, May 31, 159.7. todtf.
Georgetown Bridge Company.
ftxtraft of an ail passed by the Legislature of
the fta,t? of Maryland on the 39th December,
1791. entitled, " Aijatt for a bridge
over Potowmac riyer.
'• Andbf. it cnafled, that the said dire&Qrs or
any two »f them shall and may require .any sum
or sums of money In equal proportion from each
and every proprietor, as may fntim taiimt.
be neceflary for carrying, on the building of laid
bridge ; and after giving three months public
, notice, it fliall, and may be lawful for the direct
j tors to sue for and rticover in the name of the
company such unpaid regulation, with ill colU
and cbargea incidental thereto, and fegjU inter, :t
- theipn from the time the lime flinuld .have
, been paid: And the negleft or refufalto pay aa y
such it qui fit ion after public notice fliall have
beep given at leift,for three mouths in all the
newfp.'persheieia before enumerated, Itadl have
the effect to forfeit all preceding payments made
•t on the (hare or lhares so negiedlid or refilled to
1- be paid W the ule and benefit of the company."
J mation of firchof the ftockholdfrs as have not
[. co.mplied with. the.rcquifitions heret/ore nia.ic:
; —they arc as follow: Oil the ift November,
>- 1795, 10 dollar-, on the 10th May, 1796, 40
h dollars j an the July, 1796, 40 dollars ;on
the Ift September, 1796, 40 d.ollais, and on the
e ift November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is
11 row given that after the expiration of the time
e limited for the continuance of this advertile
-5 ment (three months) the lawwttt be carried
in;? ri £'J and complete e£fe&. against all delin
quents.
By order of the Dlredlors,
WAITER SMITH, Tauter.
« Georgetown, May 1, 1797, law^m
TO BE SOTTD; —
A valuable three ftpry Brick House ;
- ' OITUaTF. in *- od K? next to the bauk of
. I > PenoMyajiia, tly- lot an v.hicl} it to
gether with the vacant lot adjpiiyng, which ex
d tbnd3 «0, Gofofth-ilreec. The houieis about to
t, feet in front on >iid about 42 ftct
n iti depth, the adjoining lot is'about 96, feet
f 'f°' u on I lui S« alley, ar.d 42 feet on
•t ilre ? l > street which leads from Chefnut
llreet and Carter's*l(ey int,o Dcck-jJreet ?.t the
y horle market. The house chC.U of.ten fadc,
iujj roo,ns, with fix fire places, two dtnii>i.
O rooms, one of them fortv f?'et in length, th.fc
other about »hirty,four feet, each conuinnn
tw.o fire places, two parlours and a'large !:if
c ch.en, with extensive cellar? under, and--arrets
over, the whoie, a privilege t >f a vacant hn
'' °, f to the ea,sward between this hc.-ute''
J the bank, a pump,of excellent water in the
yard, a harniome piazza frosting the vacats
■ lot, and a frame fiable and dwelling house on.
Gofoi th-ftieet. Ihe prerijifes now re,nf for
eun.lji'arices.
y For ternu, apply to. Jobi Clpncnt Stacker.
>- ApnUp ' 1 siwtf
>f - JOHN (in ,\(G "
TJ-ASjuo imported focm Rotterdam, vi A St.
1 hoiriag, ajd 'ale on re a fonable tcrrna
by th? packag?
Pfatillas-Roval
Hacrlem and German iinenp
_ Ivou-ns
Post ami Pro Patm Paper
VVa&Ks
h Quiilis
d Oz'.eis . r q|- Hqjopjj in Bandies
- s j Coflfie Bags
... | He has a'Jo for Sale,
,1 Best Red Clover Seed
a Old Madeira Wine, f« for immediate ufa,
S Tcneriffe Wine.of frit and fecp.nd.Qjiaiitt
Coffee in Bags ar.d Hogfueads
Jamaica Spirits
Conneflicut Turpentine Soap,
7. Window Glass
Two Trunks of best Patent, Silk and Cotton
liofiery
Apiil 18.