fcttfc of the <6* Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
fUtMitx. 1381.X FRIDAT EVENING, FEBRUART 16, 1797. [Volume XI.
Dr. Perkins
Informs the Citizeas of Philadelphia, that he has taken
lodging, for a few days, at the Indian Queen, in. 4th
street. He will be happy to wait on any f eriens in this
between the hours of 9 and 1, who wish to fatisfy
themlcl ves ot the efficacy of his
P A TEN T METALLIC POIN TS,
And will aperate gratia for the relief of the poar : the
inftrumrnts, and the right of using them, are for file ar
lis loljjmg*.
Buhjoined, are Extracts from aPamphlet, containing ma
ny remarkable cases, attcfted by characters of thjs kigh
ell refpe<Sability.
ExtraGi from Letters to the Author ej the Metafile Difcouery.
PitRPOKT Edwa*os, Esq. Dittria Attorney for the Hate
of ConneSicut.
New-Maven, Odoher 7, 1796,
Dear Sir,
I fhauld have written you last week, had I then been
able to afcertaiji certain farfts, the rumour of which I had
heard. A Mrs. Beers, a near neighbour to me, the wife
of Eben Beers, and daughter of captain Samuel Hoggins,
of this town, had been, for fourteen weeks, exceedingly
4iflrefTed with the Rhetimatifm, to fueh a decree that for
fourteen weeks previous to the 19th of lau month, she
had not keen able to walk across the room even with crut
ches, save only once, when she made out with the aflift
anee of crutches to hobble part of the way aero s her room.
On the 19th ot September last, (he procured a set of your
metallic substances, and in less than an hour after she had
begun to use them, in the manner directed by you, she
rase from her chair, and walked about lier haufe, and on
the next day she went abroad to her neighbours, having
thrown aide her crutches. I have this day paid her a visit
in company with her father, and Timothy Jones, Esq.
who lives in the street where she resides and diteiSly op
posite to her residence, and with Capt. Abel Burrett, who
is her next neighbor, and lives within eight yards of her
door. I requested her to relate her cafe over in their
presence, which she did, and these gentlemen all with one
VOiCe, ltopportcrt, 7Twm >i»
It is a duty which yon owe yourfelf and the world to pro-
Miulge this event. I am, very tefpeAfully,
Your obedient fm-vant,
FIKRPONT EDWARDS.
N. B. She fays her fever has left her, her appetite has
returned, and she is in a fair way to be reflated to perfect
health.
Rev. Mr. Spalding, of Salem.
This may certify, that the fubferiber, in his visits among
his people, has used Dr. Perkins's metallic paints, to re
lieve paias and inflammations of various kinds, and has
fueceedcd to his astonishment. They have feldam failed
to relieve the head-ach, teeth-ach, ague in the face, in
flammation in the eyes, cramp, cholic, rheematifm, pains
of the breast and fide, biles, fcaldsand burns—Sometimes
there has been a perfed cure from one operation. A lad
•who had been confined three days with high symptoms of
a fever, very hot and full of pain, by an operation of the
paints, designed to relieve his head, his face turned pMe
and cold, hi*- fever and pain immediately left him, and in
a few days he was out of doors ; the year before, at the
fame season, he was taken with the f.'.me symptoms, a»d
lay extremely sick forty days. The efficacy of the metal
lic points has gained great credit in this town.
JOSHUA SPALDING.
December 5, 1796.
Rev. Elhanan Winchejtx*.
I certify, that on the 21ft of March, 179)5, I saw Dr.
Perkins's method of cure by pointed metallic infiruments,
tried wiih lucc»Cc-io the poor-hnufe or hettMiajj-bowfe in
Philad lphia ; especially npen a man who was unable to
lift his right haijd to his head, as was tried beforehand, hnt
■who after a few minutes operation, was able to remove it
at pleasure ; and in my fight, put it with ease on the top
of his head and back of his n<ck, and in all directions.
Nearly the fame effect took place upen a woman ; and
ALL that I saw treated, profeffed that their pains <-eased
after being treated a Snort time: and several came volun
tarily, and iif my hearing thanked the Dr. for cures he
flad performed on them about' eight weeks before, in re
moving pains from them, which they declared had not
since returned so that from what I saw with my own
eyes and what I have heard, I have great hopes that this
methed will greatly tend to alleviate the miseries of man
kind. ELUANAN WINCHESTER.
Philadelphia, 1796.
Extract from a Providence Papar.
Communication.
Dr. Perkins's invention for removing pains from the
human body, begiHs to obtain reputation in proportion
to its utility and efficacy. The fimplieity of the operati
on was at firft an obstacle to its credit; but<the flood of e
videace in its favor, from a&ual experiment, is at length
too powerful to be refilled.
. 7. dlweocf
Mas. G RAT TA N
RefpeAfully informs her friends, and the publie in
general, that on Toefdaythe i- thdayof January,
foe propol'es opening, at No. 39, North Sixth- i
street, j
A Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
Book Muslins, from 6/j to 11/11 per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to 9/8 per yard
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to 10/V0 per yard
Fine Cofi'aes
Tambour'd Book Muslins, from 13/9 to 11/ per yard
India Muslin, from nfs to It/ per yard
Si'.eeting Muflm
Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, from 4/j to 6/ perjtdkf.
liook muslin Handkerchiefs from j/3 to 10/6 per hdkf.
Muslin color d and border'd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchiefs
Tambour'd Cravats from 10/8 to u/ii
docket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/? to 16/3 per yard
Table Cloths
Huckabuck Towelling
Women's Cotton Hole, from 6tt to 13/ per pair
Dimity from 571 u to 6/n
Men's Silk Hose •
1 ambour'd muslin Handkerchiefs from 11/ ii to \ifi
Irilh linen-, for Gcntlen en's Shirts, iroci to 9/7
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, See. See.
Hou(ho!d Linen, Sec. Sec.
A plain fitirt, made and mark'd, 3 1-2 dollars,
A full raffled ditto, 4 dollars,
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled < itto 6 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and marked, 5 1-2 dollars.
A fwll ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars. *
A full ruffled ditto 7 l-j.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 1-2 dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Linen included. 1 .
_ January 13. 5 11
For Sale,
At the Office of the Editor of the Gazette of the
United States, i P
A- FEW COPIES OF 01
" An account of the Receipts and
Expenditures^ tte United Sttte#, for the year j 795." s (
City of Walhington.
:n Ocbeme of tha Lottery, No. If, for the improvement
h O of the Federal City.
is A magnificent ) 10,000 dollars, &)'
y ) cash 30,000, ire ) ,#0
I ditto 15,000 & call, 25 ,uj« 40,000
l ditto 15,000 & ca(h 15,000 30,000
le *- 1 ditto 10,090 & cash to,»oo 10,000
ir i ditto J.-000 C*ct> j.JVQ, lu.ug&.
I ditto 5,000 it e-iOt 5,000 10,000
l " 1 cash prize of 10,00®
t do. 5,000 each, are • ) 10,000
10 do. I,»oo - - 10,00"
, e »o do. 500 - - i«,uoo
00 do. 100 • - ro,oiio
100 do. 50 10,wo^
400 do. »5 - 10,000
1,000 do. to • >10,000
,j 15,000 do. 10 • fj»»ooo
fe ———
s, 16,739 Prize*.
y 33,261 Blank*.
>r —— ■ -
ie 50,000 Tickcts, at Eight Dollar*, 400,000
k- N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
a. Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the t*»r draws
ir ticket, and the 30,oooche last but on* :
id And approved notes, securing payment in.ither mon«y
ie or prizes, in ten days atter drawing, will be reoeived for
in any number not less than 30 tickets.
ig This Lottery wiH afford an elegant fp«cimen of the pri
it vate buildings ta be ej-tAed in the City of Wafhingtori —
q. Two beautiful designs are already fele&ed for the entire
>- front* on two of the public squares; from these prawings
10 it is proposed to eredl two centre and four earner baifduigs,
r as soon as polfible after this lottery is fold, and til convey
ir them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
•e the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
f- nets of fivejwr cent.. will Ua made to defray
the—mtentary o! priming, the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
University, to be erected within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence a* soon as the tickets are
is old off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty d:tys
1 alter it is finilhed ; and any prize* for which fortunate
11 ambers are not produced within twelve months after tha
drawing is closed, are to be confidsredas given towards
g the iu I: w for the University ; it being determined to fettle
- the whole business in a year from the ending of the draw
s ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
d The real securities given for the payment of thePri2e«,
are held_by the President and two Directors of the Sank
is of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
s mount ot the lottery.
d The twenty four gentlemen who by appointnitmt oJ
if the late Comirtiflioners aflifled in the management of the
e Hotel Lottery are requefled to undertake thi-arduous task
e i second time on behalf of the public ; a tuiiici&it nuia
n i;r of these having kindly accepted, it is heped that »lje
e iends to a National University an<{ the other federal eb
d jo±t6 may continue to favor the design. v
By accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have .been Cent for sale, the public are atTured that the
drawing will speedily commerce, and that the care and
caution unavoidably necelfary to aiiure a fafe of
tlu tickets, has rendered the iflor- fufptniion indilpenlablii.
SAMUEL bLODOHf. '
1 „§» Twlcf-u may be had ai the bank of Coltmuia ; of
5 James Weft & Co. Eaitimore jot Peter Oilman, Bolton :
t of John Hepkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
t Cooprr's Farry.
F ( '4 3 %° and Kilttbegs,
' he American Ship Nancy,
Cuthbert Kiggs, matter.
. liWili ''""k Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or pillage apply to
William Beli \
| Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well assorted
3 Bales Irish Flannel#, and 1 boxes Linens
25 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Russia Matts.
Also,
A few barrels Prime IkISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, Sec.
November n. 1796, tawtf
for Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DIANA,
Samuev Pile, Master,'
i## t i» Burt ' lle ri 10 -5 47*95 tens regifler, built in
Philadelphia in the year 179 a, of live oik
and red cedar, and was sheathed 13 months-ago, she
has just had a comploat out-fit, and may b* sent to sea
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin & Co.
trio have for sale on heard said vejfcl,
%1 calks of fine ye!'« v paint.
9 boxes and n bundles of writing flatea. ,
I box ink stands and note prefles.
14 bales of fail canvass. 1
And on hand,
Imperitl
Hyson, and, > TEAS.
Souclvong J
40,0e0 pieces Nankeen* of the firl quality.
19 tubs Quiekfilver.
* cherts Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few ehefts Manchester goodswell afTorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &c.
"** boxes black sewing silk.
ISO crates Queens ware well aflbrted.
to tans sheet lead. I
Nails assorted, flat and (harp points. c
London Particular, ~) , ■ .... . 1
London Market, { Made.ra Wme in p.pes
New-York Market, 5 ho^eads "
40 pipes and lohogfheads Tenerifle wine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
430 lags Mahogany. t
Nov t. tth&ftf j
FOR SALE, ;
7 HE SHIP M ART, (
BAMUEi PARKER, Maste»,
Two hundred tons burthen. Apply to 3
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co. ,
•If the MARY is not fold in a few flays, fhewill tak 1
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Ocffober 31. d f
A Manufadory- FOR~SALE. J
A valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufa&ory, fituatr
in a convenient part of the city ; the works ..Imoffc new,
on an entirely original and built of the Left' c
materials, and may be fct to work immediately. Perfous P
who wi(h to purchase, are rcqucl'ted to apply at No 273; t
Sou;h Second Street. SepUu«bci 13. 1 1 i tt
Porcupine's Gazette. 1
it Proposals Vy WILLIAM COBBETT, opposite Christ
Cnurch, Philadelphia, far uublifhing a news-paper,
to be entitled V
Porcupne s Gazette, & Daily Advertiser.
Metlihtk I hear t'ne reader exclaim ; " What! have
we Itot G£ett« enough already >" Yes, and far taa
7 iffy behave, are, in general, con
fut» a wsa&tr that their.gfeat oo.liber, in
keac. of remU'nng mine u#tiecefiary, is itu- o«1y cauft
that ,cajli for eftabiiihincnta
she gazettes in jhis country have done it mere real in
jury than all its enemies ever did or can do. They
miifead the people at home and misrepresent them a
broad*. It was these vehicles of sedition and discord
that eneouraged the counties in the Weft to rebels it
wis they that gave rife to the depredations of Britain,
by exciting the people to such ad'ta of violence against
Wat nation, as left no room to deubt that we were.de
termined on war ; and it was they, when an accom
modation had \jeen happily effeaed, that flirred up an
opposition to it luch as has seldom been witnefled, and
I which was overcome by mere chance. These gaxettes
j it was, that, by aiifreprcfcnting the difpofnions of the
people, encouraged the French to proceed from one
degree o. ini-iience to another, 'till at last their Mmif-
I terjj brakes the President in his chair, and a bullying
commander comes and tells us that his only business is
to feiye ow veiTcls, in violation of a treaty, in virtue
ot which alone he claims a right to ent&r our ports : and
. I 15 t hese gazettes that now have the impudence to pe
_ fend what their falfeTiood and malice have produced
e I (hall be told that the peopla are to blame; that
s they arc not obliged to read these abominable publica
i, tions. But they da read them j and thousands who
jr read them, read nothing else. To lupprefs-them is im
i poflihle ; they will vomit forth their poison ; it is a pri
. vilegeof their natures, that no law can abridge; and
f therefore the only mode left is, to counteract its effeiiU.
s FfcTiflauft be iltme, too, in their own way. Books,
I or periodic2l publications in the form of books, may
be of lome service, but are by no means a mJtch for
their flying folios. A falfebood that remains uncontra
* fcr a month, begins to be looked upon as a truth,
and when the dete&ion at last makes its appearance, it
is often as useless as that of the dodtor who finds his
I P at ' ent ®pired. Ihe only method of opposition, then,
is to meet them on their own ground ; to fct foot to
foot ; dispute every inch and every hair's breadth ;
fight them at their own weapons, and return ihera two
' blows for one*
A gaaette of this stamp is what 1 have long wilhed to
fee, but I have wished and «xpeifted it in rain. Indig
j nation at the tupinenefs of others has at last got the
. better of all diffidence in my own capacity, and has dc
l termined me to encounter the task People have heard
i>i*e iidc long enough they shall now hear the other.
conditions.
i. Porcupine's Gazette shall be of the usual size,
and thefubfeription Eight Dollars a year, to be paid at
: the expiration ef eai>h half year.
s 2. Advertisements will be inserted at half the usual
8 price, which will always be required in ready money.
J 3. The Censor, containing those pieces from the
1 gazette that may appear worth preferring in a more
• pqrtable form, with such amplifications and amend-
Utim J. time may give'rife to, (lull be published
| moutV.y, and each fubferiber shall be entitled to a copy,
delivered with his paper at the end 9f the month,
4. If a fufficient number of fubferibers be obtained
the firft number of the Gazette shall appear on, or be
fore the sth of March.
N. B. A fubferiptton book is now open at my (hop,
appol 'e Chrift-ehurch, whither gentleman in the coun
try, who wiflj to fubferibe, are requeftedto fend their
names.
Sub'criptions are taken at Boston by Mr. James White,
baoitfeller ; at Salem, by Mr. Debeny, post-master ;
at Ntw-Haven by Mr. Seers, bookseller ; at Newbu
ry.port. by Mr. £.-Blunt, bookseller; at Ne.v-York,
by Mr. S. Campbell, bookseller ; at Baltimore, by Mr.
G. Hill, bookseller; at Chefler-town, Maryland, by
Mr. James Arthur, pest-master ; at Eafioii, do. by
Mr. Greenbury Neal; at Frederick-town, do. by
MefTrs. Isaac and J°hn Mentz ; at Richmond, Virg.
by Messrs. Pritchard and Bavidfon ; at Norfalk, by
Meflrs. Rainbow and Hannah; and at Charleflon, by
Mr. Young, bookseller.
Jan. 128. eoiot.
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his profeflional friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, gene*aUy, through the
Uaion, that hia 1 are importation of BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and ready for SaU, from a single volume to an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, which for fcveral years pa& have in so diftinguilhed a
manner recommended them to notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the m»ft exteafivc collec
tion cf the latest £ngli(h and lriLh Editions ever imported
into this country, are published, and will be delivered graus
an application.
Orders addrefted to G. D. in writing from aoy diAance
Hialibe punctually attended to.
A number of I'RUNKS for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient. LOFT, near Market Street Wharf.
ov.B. tii&f^W
Elegant Bruflels & Turkey Carpeting,
For sale by George Dobfsn, No. 15, South Third-street.
Deeeurber 15. I dtf
CAMILLA,
Or A Pi dure of Youth.
By the authoress of Evelina and Cecilia, to be com
prised in five volumes, at half a dollar each, payable <
on delivery—Printed at New-York, by Mr. John ]
Bull. 1
CONDITIONS. i
I. Handfocie, neat type, perfedlly new, is em- <
ployed. 1
11. A volume, flitched in blue paper, is intended
to be published every 2 weeks, till the five are com
pleted; the firft and second art come to hand, and the
third is hourly expedted. Subfcnptiqns are received, 1
and Books may be had of J. ORMROD, No. 41, 1
Chefnut-lireet- "
_ t
Mrs. D'Arblay (late Miss Burney) the celebrated
authoress of this inimitable work, needs no eulogy f
to add to the laurels she has already acquired in the -
literary world. The flrength of imagination and ele
gance of style, displayed in Evelina and Cecilia, will 1
fufficiently recommend to every reader of taste and ]
judgment, the perusal of Camilla. \
It may not be improper to add, that the Queen of t
England, after having perused this interefling publi- f
catibn, presented Mrs. D'Arblay with a (houf&nd $
pounds sterling, as a teftimany of her approbation of 1
the work.
January aj estf
Mahogany and Logwood.
tffc A Cargo for Sale on board of the fiiip Sully, captain
r, Gelfton, iuft arrived trom Honduras.
Apply to
PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co.
February 9 5
Z " yusT Aittirsp,
By the Danish ship Fr«end(hip, captain Matzen, froa
M Oporto
Red Port Wine,
j. 1" Pipes, Hojfhiails Quarter-C»fk»,
■y 150 Boxes of Lemons,
1- jFor Sale by
; d Philips Cramond Ssf Co.
February 9 £
ft' Red Clover Seed.
■* Fre(h red Clever Seed of the best quality, in big* of "
i- 5 buihels each
n Madeira wine in pipes, fit for immediate ufir
d Teneriffe wine in pipes, hogsheads and quarter calks
•s Ditto do. of firit quality, f«r the use of private
* families
e Coffee in hogsheads
- Jamaica spirits
g Connedli 4 t soap in small boxes
is Window glass and Spanish fegars, and
e Two trunks of best patent, plain and ribbed Glk and
d cotton hofiervi forfaleby
•- J N CRAIG.
February i.' wff&mtf
l For Sale,
0 By George Defchamps, No. 91,
:* NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
d " Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrel*
i, and half barrels
, f Ditto- Herring and Mickarel.
y Strioaked Marring tn barrel* and kegs
r Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or (Ingle one
_ Dry Codfilh, from one to fifty kentals
( Fine and ooarfe Salt
it Nova-Scotia and French PUfter of Paris, in the stone
s and ground, for manure and flucco-work
i, December i tth&f
0 L AN DIN G?
> A Walnut-ftrett wharf, from on board the lhip Peg.
0 -LX- gy, captain Elliott, from Bourdeaux,
VIN DE GRAVE, or White Claret, in Hhdsand Or.
0 Cafics
RED CLARET, in Hhds
c Ditto in cases of 14 and 30 bottles each
> Gr»en and Souchong TEAS, in quarter chests
d For sale by
Rinidle & Leech,
Nn. 9 Walnut.street.
Februany ft ipwftf
Peter Borger,
A T o. 129 Mulberry'Street^
HAS imported by thc 4 brig Tryal, captain Robert Knox,
and the Good Fii< oc}s, captain Smith, from Hamburg,
7000 Empty French bottles,
200 do demijohns,
£46 do. filled with beans and lentils, *
100 Hand Engines,
too Ps. Pla'illas,
j aco White Koiis—
A L SO- —
Several boxes with decantets and tumblers, half pint, pint
and quarts—o«e invoice Nuremberg toys —containing
>» lnuff-boxes, looking-glafles, $cc.
i- iOo,©oo Quills of different qualities,
r 150 Boxes Window Glass, 7-g 9-1 j *1-12.
——•OK HAND —
*0 Qr» Calks Sherry Wine,
4 do. {3r, ndy,
400 Cases best Holland Gin,
ftoo Boxes Red Wine, contaitinr bottles each,
' One bale of Flannels a/Torted, and
30 Ps. ( loth,
Y Frefti Prunes in boxes and barrels.
y Fcb,uarv tu &fr
1 Lancajter, Harrijburgh, Carltjle, Shtp
jr penjburg and Sunbury
y STAGES.
The public are requeued to take notice, that the part
nerlhip which has for some time, fwbfifted between Mathi
as Slough of Lancalfer, and. William Geer, is now difl»l
ved . but, not as M. Slough insinuates to the public
without jult cause ; as will more fully appear by a letter
. on the fuhjea from M. Slough t» W, Geer, dated the
e 29th December 1 alt a recital of which is not now deemed
_ necessary. Any gentleman who wiihes to be more cir
. cumtfantially inf.rmed of the merits of this business by
r a pply>ng to W. Geer may have the perusal M. Slouch's
2 letter, and then can be at full liberty to determine whe
ther or net W. Geer is not perfeilly juftifiabie in attach
. ing himfelf to any other perl'on in the prosecution of the
I Stage co»veyanc; from Philadelphia to Shipnenlbure
! or any other place. '
Now from the liberal and generous support the public
: were pleased to confer on the firft effort in this business,
V( illiam Geer, in conjunflion with Messrs. Reily, Weed
and Wi'.mer, is determined to prosecute and carry it on,
with every care, attention and dispatch that a zeal to o
blige the public can polfibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided with
carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to render the
passage fafe and commodious, inform those who wish to
■ patronize and encourage the undertaking, that they can
take their feats at George Weed's, the iign v f the White
H(.rfe, Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrilburg, Carlisle
and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto eftabliflied.
For the further accomm.dation of the public, a Stage
will Hart every Wednesday from the house of Samuel
Elder, m Harrifburg, arrive at Sunbury in Northumber
land county, every THurlday, and return from the»ce and
arrive at .Harrifburg every Saturday, f 0 that passengers
destined for Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed oci
Mondays.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. iy, 1797.
N. B. This Line ef Stages Harts from the haufe of
William Ferree, in Lancaster, on every Tuesday and Sa -
turday morning at 6 o'clock, proceediag to the weft ward;
and from the haufe of Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg
every Wednesday morning, on the fame evening arrives
at Patrick Cochran s in Shippenfburg, and returns from
thence on every Thursday : performing the fame routine
daily as in its tour from Philadelphia.
THE SUBSCRIBER -
WISHES toafcertain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer,
who quitted Ireland ii 1783, or 1784, and came into
this Country, ('tis supposed to Philadtlphia) about
four years fiace, be living As this intelli
gence is of the highest importance, it will be thankful
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS,
No. 313, High-street
ji. vr&funCGs, UHHS6 of m, UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REP KE-SE NTATI VI. S.
Monday, January 16 —Continued.
Mr. \jrnum, 1 consider it the tndjfpenfi'bie duty of
this houle, and of e-ch and every member of it, as
much as it is 'in our power, to preserve inviolate the
public iaith, and to make all neeeffary provilion for 'he
payment-os 'the just debts of the United States. But
in doingQrij, we ought to have recourse to such objeiU
of luxation, and such metfiods of colleilion, as wc
ha ve i . ilon to believe will be moll agreeable to the
'people.
I He government, no doubt, under an impression,
that tliey were doing right, have reformed to imposts &
, excites, as rhe proper mock? of raising a revenue; and
experience has evinced that this mode of taxation, is"
■a ftafible one in the United States-; it places very lai ge
fur:s ot money in your treasury annually ; and it is
paid by the people, with a greater degree of chei'rful
nets in thijr way, thanit probably svould through the
channel ot diraiil taxation. Many of the objt from
which our revenue is railed, by duties of"itnpolt and
excise, are articl s or luxury and fuperfiuity, and as
theo are generally considered to be such, t'hofe who
make uie of them, do willingly piy the tax laid on
them by the government ; andlpreltime will continue
jo to do, so long as the money (hall be appropriited to
purposes, which are.rrsmotrve of the good of the U
juou. Duties on thole articles which may be more
properly clalTcd among the necessaries of life, are paid
hy the tonfumtr when he purch;fes the article, and
are less felt by him, than they wtreld be, if the whole
duties of a rear were to be paid in a gross sum.
By this mode of ttxation, it is true, s>? pßor and
induilnous people, whose income and labor barely
-iuppiying them with the common neceflaries of lire,
do not pay any part of the tax or duty on wines, teas,
silk, carnages and a great variety of matters; and
why Ihould they, w hen their neceflity entirely pre
vents their eVer making use of them ? Yet the duty is
paid, and it comes from the proper source; the man
in poliafiion ol the money remits it to the publit-; and
the poor man is thereby enabled to supply his children
■with bresd, to afluage their hunger; and by clothing
to guard them tgainfl the inclemency of the weather.
Thousands of such people are within the United States.
It is a inaxim tiiat will always hold good, that snoney
must be looked for where itand not where it is not.
Hence I conceive the present mode of <-ol!e<£ling a
revenue, under the government of the United States,
to be far preferable to a land tax : it is paid by the peo
■ple with more facility, and realized by the government
with more certainty.
Besides, the fvAern is arranged and in a ragular ope
rition ; all the oScers are appointed, who would be
neeeffary if a much larger sum were to be raised in the
fame way; so that the expense of colle&ing any addi
tibnal duties on and cxcife would be compara
tively very small.
I am therefore clearly of the opinion, that xny addi
tional sums which may at present be needed, for de
frayiig the expense- of the government, or for the
payment of their just debts, ought to be raised by du
ties on imposts and excises : that is a method of taxa
tion wit h which we are acquainted, and which experi
ence has taught us the operation of, under this govern
ment.
But such is the variegated interest of the United
States, and such their diverfified method of levying
and collecting dired tuxes, that ho uniform system ef
ciretf Uxatimi can fce devised, which will apply to the '
cuCom of any two cf th; states; and unless yon adopt
the rules ot some one of the states your ly.lem will be '
diverse from any one which has ever been practised 1
upen m any put of the Union. Bu: if vou adopt the
method which has been prefcribedbv any one of the
state governments ant! which miy probahlv be very
properly adopted, to.suit the cireumftances and .-onci
lurethe feelings of the people of such state, even in '
that cale, you will have the prevailing opir.ion ot' sis- 1
\teen Sites out of sixteen, diredlly opposed to your fy- 1
fle.ii. And this opinion having been acquired 1 rorn
long experience ot the operation of direct taxes.( which •
molt o£ the states have of neceflity conilamly had re- i
fort to, for the support of their state governments, and
tp. uifchargiag the debts contraflud in the late -wa- '
with Great-Britain) and which being founded on lo- :
cal cii cnmfhnces, habits and attachments, are vcrv '
hard to be eradicated, will very ranch retard the one- 1
ration of the Ivftem, if Hot-render it entirely imprac- i
' r
The Secretary's report on this fubjeiS brings into
view, three modes of levying direfl taxes, with which
the' House are acquainted.
Ihe firft of these modes has for its objeil, an appor- '
tionment on each on constitutional principles '
afiigaiug a time for the money to be paid into the trea
sury, on failure of any .state, to be ifleffed and collefl- ;
ed by th* authority of the United States, upon the 1
lame objects of taxation and pursuant to the fame
rule, hy which the last taxes were WJfeffed and collefled 1
ln/uch lUte. i
" ift. That an AJI of Congress fcou Id be passed,
declaring the quotas of the different ftateJ; iffigniiw
a tune for. payment .nto the treaftfry, 21 , d preferring,.
delinquency, that the said quotas should be
ai.efled and collected by authority o/the United States,
upon the :ame objefl* of taxation, and pursuant to the
l.:ire rules by which the iall faxes were assessed and
by the reipecHivf ftites.
" id. That the Aa of Congress should direct that
the proposed tax ihouid l,e alVcfi'ed and colleikd under i
■Buth : r..tyof the United States, upon the; fame «bj<*U
Ol taxation, and pirrfuant to the rules of the colleilion t
by which taxes are collected in states relWUvcly
"V' J ha !- the ot ' Con Srefs Ihould detine cer
tain objects w taxation aud principles of afletTment
according to which the proposed tax fcould be assessed
in a.l tne Hates, to becoliccled pursuant to uniform re
gulation^.
Ihe report treats the firft mode as entirely ur.wor- I
t.iy o. conSv.ercc. It gives some countenance to the c
fecondmode ; but finally concludes that it is inelrgible
—the third mode is recogtured as the preferable one • f
fßd has bten agreed to by the committee of wav, and '
means; but, fir, I uiUt take the, liberty of differing (
from them in opinion on tiiefubjea ; the mode which t
t .ey have agrtc-d to, is in my mind by far the moll ?
or the
Itideflroys that equality of taxaticn, which oupht
to tharsctei ize every nation, ind which bv Arift at- '
tcniion and iudufiry, founded o* tile true principles of c
equal liberty from ma:* years moil of
the iUtcs n, the Unicn, fcave in a g.,od meifure, ac- r
qwr»d tee knowledge of anu sdopted.
It is cslculated to laddie the ii.duftrious farmers 1
cf oti' country with an tin iue burthen. From the
induftrv, toil, and fatigue, of tbofe whose lot it is 1
to till the earth, all orders, faculties and profeffions 1
of men derive l.etr foppoit. many thou lands 1
ol people in th« U.iiud States, live ftom year to '
yeai without once feeling the fatigue of hard labor? \
a'd many of t. -m fcwrmrftng in li>« lr y, from the
of capitaiJ artfully acquired from the hard f
carries of the unws y laborer. And fhail a fyf. ?
tern ol dired taxation bf adopted under the go- 1
Tciomcnt, wriucb o,c peepk have lurmcd upoo the J I
r principles of eqtial libei ?y, which vvill oblige th?
induorioH9 farmer to~pay a lai>d tax, and t tax
his building, which in most iuflancej includes nine
teen-twentieths 01 hi« p.operty ; and all the money
holders, holders of all i>;her kinds of property, and
those who from profeffion, or epolumect derived
f from the operation of our government, are living in
' alfluence, be exonerated from any part of the bur
then, except a small pittance for the hotifes they
live in ? No, fir, it appears to me, that a lyrtem
like this nev;r can be agreed to in thn hoHfe. A
gain, felting aside the dependence of he commu
nity, on the indultry of the farmer and tie mechanic
for food and raiment, are not these 6e men on
. whom the government mutt principally rely, for
personal service, in defence of the countiy, <n cafe
. of an invalicn frofn a foreign enemy's IF to, which
I prefumf will net be controverted, are they not
entitled to equal privileges iVith their fellow citizens,
ascoiding t* the property they poiTels ?, mod as
suredly they are : but very wiii-ly othetwife mil
be the cafe, if the fvftem before you (liquid be
adopted. The time that mud be fpcnt in forming
an estimate on new principles through the United
States, and the great number of new officers {at
leall 3,500 woald be urecetTarv) in afieffing and col
lecting the tax would add very effintially to the
burthen. If a direst tax fhonld e*er become ne
ceflary under this government, I lupe it will em
brace all the objeils of taxation, which have been
designated by the particular state govefements ;
and the ingtnious reafoaing in the
secretary's report, against the prailibllity of the
second mode therein stated, I am unable to fignre to
myfelf any f)olfible inconvenience which would arise
from it on the ground of the objedtions. And why
that system was not adhered to in the report, am at
a loss, for the resolve directing the report to be
made contemplated no other.
But I am, from my present opinion induced to
give the fyi'tem firft mentioned io the report the
preference. The several dates being convinced,
that tbe authority of the general government would
be exercised, if the money was not furniftied by the
time prefixed, they would in all probability make
the remittance ; but if any (late (hould fail of doing
it, this government would make the alfeffment an
the inhabitants of the delinquent (late ; and wonld
be under as good advantages forcolle&ing it, as it
would have been to have made the aiTeffment on the
inhabitants in the firft instance ; and the reafoaing
in the report does not apply to the-cafe, for under
the Former government the Congress had no power
to assess money on individuals in any cr.fe, and there
fore were under the necessity of depending on the
will of the (late government alone, foi a compli
ance with the requisitions; but underthe prefect
government the" power of Congress to assess and
coiled such deficiency, is commeafkirite with their
power to make the requisition.
This mode of laying direst taxes, would require
no new officers, the money would be colie&ed by
the date officers with the (late taxe?, and would be
attended with much less expence to the people,
than either of tbe other modes presented.
But there are almost inseparable objefliom to a
dired tax uaderthis government, view it is what
light yju please; and I presume, that the govern
ment never will adopt one, until all the objects of
indirect taxation are exhausted and the demands on
the treasury make it iodifj>epfably necessary. Is
that the cafe at this time ? No Sir, i think it it
not ; but that very large additional sums may be
drawn from that source if it were necessary.
Before we go fully into ap investigation of the
principles of a Land Tax, perhaps it would be ex T
pedient to enquire, into the annual receipts and
expenditures at the treaftiry, and to fatiafy our
selves whether there is, or is not a neceflity of lay
ing additional taxes of any kind And if on ration
calculation it ftiould be found, that the' proceeds
of exilHng taxes, will be commensurate with the
demands on the treasury, for the four succeeding
years, your laud tax will certainly be unnecessary.
Being niyfelf convinced of the fad, I will take
the liberty of dating the principles on which tny
opinion is founded.
The annual expence of the government. Including
all demands, is estimated by the Secretary of the Trea- 1
fury up to the year jßot, at 7.463,000
1 he report eflimates the duties on im
ports and tonnage, by the aflual receipts
into the Treasury, in , 79J> « 5>5i8,961^6
i-rom exciies on thr fi m eprinciple, at 3-7 2t f ,6
The revenue from the poft-office, at ? ?'oco
Bank dividend, at ,
Interest 011 redeemed flock S2 6J6
On patents, &c. > '746^73
Amounting to '• > 6,ic0,670~"
• Which leaves aa snmial balance z
gainft the Treasury of 1 -6-
but it is tobe'ohferved that this statement is
made frotnt';c money received into the Treasury
in 1795, and is.the pioduft of the revenue in 1794.
And by recurring to the revenue returns for 170 c
we fmd the net amount of duties on imposts and
tonnage in that year is 7,959,409,70.
Which gives a balance in favour of the Treasury
oeiides tupplying the sum calculated to be taifed by
direct tax of 496 409,70.
The amount of the revenue t®be derived
from Eicife, is also estimated from the ad.ua!
receipts in the Treasury iu 1795, and is indis
putably mach tea low ; for ia man) parts of
the United States the excise law had iufl be
gun to operate ic 1794, in which year a great
part ot the receipts ef the Treasury in 1795,
adually acc, i:td. It is, I think, moil pron'er
to take this estimate from the m u R. rcceut date
of receipts, and
f rom Sept. 30, 1795 to Oft. I, 1796, the
receipts on account 0/ tlic ncife were , 6 , , r
Since that sum has been collected from the
peop e, an additional tax has bean laid by way
of excise, which will conCderablv increase / I
that branch of the revenue.
Poll-Office revenue '
Dividend of Bauk produces 3J,000
Interest on redeemed ft<A.k ,
On Patcr.ts 86>6 3 6
"4-7J
Whole anjount of net revemie o "
From the great increase of the ReTenue
trom 1795 to 1796, I think that this (late
mcr.t can be rthed on, with a decree of cer
tainty, as a proper estimate of our annual re
venue from exiftiiig taxes, which gives an an
nual ia £av« 0 f ic UcUury, 1jCa , 1705 ,. 41
The " rrenry of A' Taipeirf, in h=- re
port on J-.c fcUjla of diiiS eiumate*
tl-c annual expenf# of the military and naval
department a;.d military pcnfioaer, at 1,000,000
The estimate in detail for those departments
for 1797 . , . , M 08.890
-And I am of opinion that the leal annual ex
pence of those departments, will fall tonfidcrably
short of this estimate taking it so; four years, if pro
per ecenor.iy is nftd, which will further rncreak
thefurplus money in your treasury. The general
daff of the army are by the laws >rf the U. States,
to be continued no longer than the fourth of
March next, and therefore (he items which apply
to them in the estimate cannot be considered a« an
apnrui.l expence.
The £ay of the general ftaff estimat
ed upto tlie 4th of March next 874.31
Ai the United States are in a (late of
peace, arid their have only garri
son duty t» do, the keeping up a corps of
dragoons cm be of no ule whatever, &
a confidence saving will be made by
reducing the. corps
The avagotjHs' annual pay amounts to 9>4&0
General ftaff fubfiftcnce to 4th March
next, 1,190 rations at lo cents per ration,
is 378
Forage for the general ftaff 217-'3
Cavalry forage 9, 6g6
The equipments for the cavalry a»I3J 66
Horses for the cavalry 13,950
The Secretary has estimated the ex
pense of the<]uarter-raafter's department
at 150,000 dollari, lam led to believe
that the (late of the army will admit of
a reduction of that expense too,cco
A redu<Sion of 59,000 Indian rations
it being half the number stated in the e
stimate to,ooo
Expenee of running the litie of the
Indian territory • 10,003
•For building mills, &c. at Oneida J,oco
These items amount to i§i,931.10
IJeduft this last sum from the esti
mate for 1 797 leaves 1,346,958'
And this left sum deduced from the -- —— • -
200 D,OOO stated in the,report on the fab*
jedl of direifl taxes, as an eftirr.ate of the
annual expence rtf the army and navy &
military pentions gives another balance
in favor of the Treasury, of 653,041.13
This fun. together with tlie surplus
revenue in favor of the treasury make 1,682,7,1.51
Thisfam is the net produce of our annual reven
ues over the Aims necessary to difoharge all de
mands on the Treasury for the four fucceedine
years.
From this ftateraent, which is taken from authen
tic documents, does it Dot clcarly appear that it is
entirely unnecessary, and even inexpedient ta im-,
pose additional taxes of any deaomination in the
present itffion ? While the exiftitig taxes give you
a net income of more than a million and an half «>f
dollars annually, over and above, the annual de
mand, which can, is the common course of occur
rences, be made on the Treasury, for the four fac
ceeding years, can you with any propriety, lay
additional burthens on the people ? it hat ofun
been ehfeived, in the couife of the debate on this
fubjeft, that-all would agree in tiie necessity of ad
ditional taxes ; 1/ut fe far from an unanimous con
currence in this opinion, o« » onndid examination
cf the lubjefl, with an ufoal reliance on the com
moni.courle of events, will not,every member of this
hcufr, consider any additional taxes to be unneces
sary. £To be continue 4.^
TRENTON, February 7.
On Saturday lad the inhabitants of this city were
highly giatified by the cpetiir.g of the navigation
of the AQanpink.
At 15 minutes pad 10 o'clock the new boat
Hope, carWlrufted by gen. Breaily and Mr. David
Hutcbinfon, on purpose for this navigation, left
David's Town, at which place the upper lock is (j
---tuated, and arrived here at 15 minutes palt one.
On board her came the president and managers of
the company and near fifty other persons, {he pas
sed the tjrii lock in exadilv iix minutes, and the se
cond in seven, at the third (he was detained about
half an hour owing to its not being in perfect rea
dmef#, potwithlhnding which (he made good her
voyage, calculated at 10 or 12 miles, cxa&ly in
thiee hours.
This is but about half the distance to which it is
contemplated to extend the navigation, but it is
pre'umed no more locks will be necessary in the
ivhole extent of its course.
On the firft appearance of the boat 111 fight ef
the town the company on board gave three cheers
which wasanfwered by a fedc - salute from Capt.
Collins, who had politely, though on a (hort nutice,
eolleacd a few of his men for that purpdfe, after
winch, at the moment of landing, the crouds of
people wbo lined both shores of the octk saluted I
with three hearty cheers.
1 he prefidenr and managers, and a number of i
the gentlemen who came down in the boat then re
tired to a public homfe, where they dined together |
and spent the afternoon with great feciability and j
hilarity. J
Tim being the firft attempt at inland navigation
which has been carried into effirrft in this (late, it
has had to encounter every obstacle which incredu
lity and prejudice could throw in its way, all of
which it has furmcuntcd with much less difficulty
and expense than was at hrft contemplated by its
warmed and we Hatter oi,rf< Ives it will
lerve as an iiitrodu&iou to more exteuUve and ule
tul undertakings.
By the luccefs of this scheme, trilitng as it'-is 111
companion with many others, an avenue is opened,
u"!L C^ Cap ' ea( V *"d fafe mode of conveyance ef
t»bii(hcd to this city through an extensive' and'fer
tile part ot the country, aod what is of great con.
equence, large trads of timber and woodland
are at open to our use, which have been hereto
oie dt o gieat a eiftance from any water carriage
ritln. 3 ' renc ' er t ' lem ,J f little or no value
W proprietors or oth¥i s.
We are u,formed that the fubfeription book is
now open ar the office of the treafur.rof the coa
to enaKlr ,^, eßton, 3 fCW m ° re (hares bein g wat
thrnnoh f a ,' iagCr6 tocum P lcte navigation
r h u e C ° Urfe :as » these arc ob
tamed the books will be Anally closed.
cow, do it uadu double ail-
vantage ; the fu- -If r r the w dertakhtg being f_jJ_
ly slcertaiaed, «nd Hie b-jfineft i 0 immedfate ,-!Lra
tion, I here n ic.«w a moral csitaiuty that the jtfohti
will yield them u banufonne interest f ur their ao .
ncjr.
SAVANNAH, January 20.
Thef»lk-wing letter was yejlc,-day received, from the
governor oj ■Pennsylvania, by John Y. Nad, Ela
Mayor of this Lay.
bin,
I received with the flneerelt sympathy a.,d -e e rer
your communication, refpeding the calami-y tfcwt '
has recently afflided the city of Savai.. ld h, a.hi
deemed tt my duty to claim the iaterpofitioa of' thi
legislature, in order to secure an immediate sod iibe
| ral contribution, for the relief of eur dift:efTcd
fellow citizsns of the Stale of Georgia. 1 have
now the pleafue of transmitting to you a copy of
the act by which Fifteen Thousand Da'.lars, have
been chearfully appropriated for that benevoler^
purpole ; and to inform you, that Samuel R|
Fox, Robert Wain, and Charles Biddle, Efquirejj
are charged with remitting the amount to you, bv
the fofclt and molt expeditious conveyance.
It is -ny eaioett with, that the example of Pena
fylvauia, mav be pursued throughout the United
States ; and I (hall rejoice, in hearing at an early
period, that ihc inhabitants o Savannah, affection
ately succoured by their brethren, and honorably
fepported by their own induftty, have been reituiel
to the flourishing condition, that they had previonf
ly attained, noiwirhllandiiig the ravages to whicn
Giorgia had been peculiarly exposed, during our
revolutionary contelt.
Accept the fentimenrs of personal efteetn, with
which I am, Sit, , -
Your mult obedient,
Humble ferva.it,
Thos. Mifflin.
Philadelphia, Dec. 24, 1796.
TTTTSBL r iiGH, FebT^
The rivers Ohio, Allegheny, and Monvgahela
were frozen over from the 28th of Novetiiuer until
Mc >dav last, when the ice gave way, and the navi.
gallon is now entirely lice fram obltruftiou.
Red Pole, a principal Chief of the Shawaneli
nation of Indians, died in this place an Saturday
lait—2nd tire day following was buried with the
honors of war. He was on hi* return home from
visiting the Prefideut tf the United States.
BOSTON, January 31. .
ANHIVER or the SENATE
TO THE ADDRESS OF THE GOVERNOR.
MAT IT PLEAS E YOUR EXCELLENCY,
THE Setiata, having so racerifly taken oceafiou
to express their sense of the diltinguill.ed lervices
and merits of the Prefidcnt ot the United States,
and the feelings-excited by his intention to retire
Irani the burthens of public life, have only now to
fay, that they peifedly accord with your Excellen
cy in the sentiments oa that fubjett, contained in
your communication to the Legillature.
The general voice of the United States has de
clared, that every, fctae of his ilhittriaus Hie has
been marked with the purett attachment to his coun
try, and the matt enlightened zeal to infuie her
peimanent felicity.
May America ever poflefs citizen's whose ability
and pauionim will add lultre to so blight an exam
ple ; ?i;d may the influence of his character canfe
our country to feel, that, though removed (10m the
adive lcenes of government, he has not ceased 10
poftiriy.
The Senate, Sir, are feniible of the high impor
tance ot preserving, uncoiitan>inated, thai moil tf
iential privilege of treemeo, the right ot election*
Should the laws already made to inlure that objed,
be tound defective, they doubt not additional lecn
rit its will be provided.
The attention Ihewr, by the people of the Uu«r
ted States, in a late important ehdion, to thole
diftingailhed citizens who early flepped loith, and
have continued lirrn in the caule ot ireedoai, (hews
their attachment to the principles which fanned the
balls of their government, and evinces the gratitude
of true republicans to thole who have been inttru,
mental 111 theii happineis.
We have ever been deeply imprefled wi»b the
importance ot fuppoiting thole lnilitutiuns ttbiclj
tend to promote the progress of molality
and ufeful knowledge; and fhalt ever be ready to
give all proper encouragement to eftablilhmenU
so efiential 10 the freedom ond hsrppinefs at a peo
ple;.
The militia of this commonwealth is a fnljcct
which has heretofoie occupied much of the uitcu
tion of the Senate, »!.d we shall be rtsdy at ail
I times to give it that couflderation which i's impor
-1 taiice requires. Whta We call to mind the i'npor
, taut lervices rendeied to the caufc of liberty, i« the
early stages of out revolution, by an un<L.cipiiutd
inilitiu, we caunot but hope, that the iyitein will
be ia improved, that our commonwealth will never
have occalion 10 rtfort, tor her dciei;.e, to the
hazardous expedient ef a funding army in times of
peace. >
\our iixcelleucy having announced yo..r deter
mination to iciire from the pubhe iervice, the
Senate ask leave to expieis the leiilc tiicy entertait*
ot the many and urporiaiu ierviecs rendered by you
to our common count! \.
1»» times of and danger you, Sir, wets
emineutly etigagea in the caulc ot Ucedor.-i ; siJ
years or "uaicmittea exeition, in various cl> 1 ■ dt
partmeiits, ti-nee iu« e«abl3hmeot us our indepen
dence, piove the interest you have fell in the pie.
lervation-of so invaluable a bleffiug.
1 o have lived to ice the independence of your
country fiimly eftablifhtd, hei protpenty increaling,
anu the principles or iifcerty and good governthiint
daily grinir.g ttrength, mult be afoutcc of happmtfs
iu retirement equal to the loudelt wirtie* of your
heart.
It is the iincere vvifh of the Seoate that you may
enjoy iuch a meafuie of heaith, as will lc»g permit
yoy to witness and partake of the bltlfings of thtt
iiidepeodeßce which you have so largely contribu
ted to infaie ; and thai the evening ot your life may
be as trarquil and haopy, as it# morning and mcru
diau hkve becu »£l.i. uud honorable*(15a3rtte^^llmtcti^>tatcs,
AND
Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
PHIL VOEI.PHIT; Fkbruaky IS.
Further European \ccceunts will be given To-.
E ariaw, viz. —Two Letters from Berthier—Mo
reaus Letter —A publication of the Diie&ttry, and'
fu'"'rv Mis tllaneous Articles, which the kte hour
the Mail arrived at, pr«c!ude the possibility of our
infertibg this day.
STOCKS.
Six per Cent. - - ..- - = 16/4
Thi-ee per Cent- 9fß
4' ; pfr Cent. - -- -- -- --
5I per Cent. - -- --
Deferred per Cent. - tl/9
BANK United States, Il 'perct
P-nrtfylvania, - - - 13 do.
— North V-neriea, - 40 do
Insurance Comp. N. A. (hares, - 25 per ct.
— Pennfylv. par.
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days, ii l-i
at 60 days, 60
-.at 90 <iays, 57 I-I
Aiafte'dart), 60 days, per guilder. 40
■ 90 days, 4»
One of the Ship-Carpenters at work upon the frigate'
yesterday fell fi(oin the fcaffiolding, by making a falfe step'
and almost inftan'ly expired. To the catastrophe more
melancholy, the unfortunate man has left a wife and four
children.
A letter is in town, dated at Paris, November 27,
1796, which mentions that a courier had been dis
patched from thence, in order to negociate for a
general suspension of hostilities.: the letter also men
tions that it was expe&ed a profound peace would
immediately ensue.
(£j- An Adjourned meeting of the Philofcphtcal
Society will be held at their Hall at 6 o'clock this
Evening.
Febiuary ro.
CAZETTE MARINE LIST.
ARRIVED.
Brig Molly, Medlin, Port-nn-Prince
Tryal, Knox, Hamburgh
Schr. Jt piter, Burbank, New-York
Poliy, Church, Gonaives
The brig Ann, Ricards, 20 days from Trisidad,
is arrived at Marcus Hook Lett at Trinidad the
vcffels, belonging to this port :
Schooners, Morning Star, Hart j Cousins, Du
yall ; Dick, Brown
Brig Mary, Cunningham—alfo four fail of .Bri
tish (hips of the line and one frigate.
A (hip and two schooners entered the Cipes at
the fame time with the Jupiter, arrived last evening
from New-York.
A letter received in town yefteiday, from the
Havanyih, dated Joiihary 26, mentions that there 1
was no profpeift of the ship Golden Age being re- ,
leafed. ,
The brig Sally, Hayei, from this port, is arri- j
ted at Antigua. j
Capt. Hayes tif the bri: Sally, on his pafTage to j
Antigua, la*. 33, long. 65, on the 17th Decern- t
fcer fell in /with the wreck of a large new brig, female t
figure head and quarter badges, but blowing bard, t
and a very high sea, ht could not difcoiyer any t
name on the llern, or venture to fend on board c
her. n
BOSTON, February I. c
Arrived the ship Vlagnet, capt. Ch ate, 47 days
frt m Liv'-rjyiol ; failed in company with Caroline,
of Newburypo't ; capt. Alden, for Boston ; Tiip p
TttWHf iid, Patterfon, of BoOthi ay, for Wifcaffet. !
Left there ship Prefi-'ent, of Wifcaffet, capiain n
Byingion, for New-York, to fail in 10 day 6 ; fl.ia Q
Mercham, Fitz, of Portland, for Charleflon, to V
fdil in a few days ; brig Neptune, of Warren, for aJ
Charlffton, to fail in todays ; ship Columhtii, of h ,
i'hilidelphia, to fiil in a few days; brig Commerce, t j-
Tattle, of Portiinoiith, for N.irfolk ; ship Connec- r ,
ticut, of New London, from Kennebeck, jull ai- w
rived, pa.Tage 30 j (Rip (-Jiirnburjj Packet,
Ciay, 101 Philadelphia, to fail rjih Jan, Captain
Choate fpok-* no ». (T.-is on his t» (Ta-'e.
,a '
i>y this day's Mails. u
• --m- (n
Boston, Feb. 3.
Inferejiittg Foreign Advices. V
£By the M gnet, Ohoate, arriied here in 50 days g 1
from Liverpool. London Papers to Dec. 6. w
— d<
, PARIS, Decemtar 1. lo
B U G N A P A R T E,
CommCdtiJer in Chief, to the Executive Direflory. at
» Head q-iiaiters ar Verona, hi
29 Brumaire, Nov. th
" 1 have been so harraffed witW-fttWlte, citizsns *
dire6tois, that it- has t>een tor me to make
known all the military movements, t'uat have pre. n<
ceded the battle of Arcole, which has decided the
fate of Italy.
" Informed that field marshal Alvinzy, com- ve
inaiiding the army of the empeistr, approached sic
Verona, foi the putpofe of forming a junction with v '
the divifiyns of his army in Tyrol, I filed off along g*
the Adige, witb the divifionsof Aogereau and Mat gt
fenn, and in. the tiight of the 24th and 25th, threw R
a bridge of boats across at Ronco, where we paffec!
that river. 1 was in hopes of arriving in 1 e morn
ing at Villa Nova, and by that mcarts taking the pc
eaetny's park of artillery and baggage, and attack- so
ing them iw flank and rear. The "head-qiiartera of &'
general Alviozy were at Caldero. But the enemy, pi'
vhohad heard of some movements, had sent a regt- th
went of Croats, and some regiments of Hungarians, vi*
into the village of Areole, extremely strong by it<- pa
position in the tfiidll of mat fhes and canals.
" This village (lopped the advanifed guard of
the army during the whole day, 1 It was in vain K
that all the generals, feeling the importance of the iw<
time, precipitated thetnfclves at its head to oblige w«
our columns to pass the little bridge of Arcole. cci
To« much courage wasdangetouj. They were al- tie
moftjjlljwounded. Generals Verdier, Bon, Verne,
Lafne, were put. out of combat. Attgercsu, lay
»> ing hoU of a standard', advanced to the extremity
f of the bridge, where he remained for several minutes
without producing any effect. NJeanwhilelt was
t neeeffary to pass that bridge, or t-ikc a circuitous
root® of several leagues, which would have made
our whole operation mifcarrv : I repaired myfelf to
the spot; I asked the fwldiers if they ftfll were the
'o-. conquerors of Lodi ? My presence produced an
o- emotion amonjr the troops; which still determined
nd me to rifle the passage. General Lafne, already
ut wounded twice with shot, received a third and more
ur dangetous wound. General Vignolle was aifo
wounded. We were obliged to renounce forcing
the village in front, and t» wait till a column, com
manded by general Guieux, whom J had sent thro'
Albaredo, had arrived ; he did not arrive till nighr,.
took the village, four pieces of cannon, and made
some hundreds of prisoners. In the interval general
Maffena at'acked a division which the enemy made
ct defile from their head-quarters againll our left, dif
comfued, and put it completely to the route.
" It had been thought expedient to evacuate,
during night, the village of Arcole, and we expedt
ed, at day-break, to be attacked by the whole army
of the enemy, who were found to have had time to
file ot their baggage and parks of artillery,
and to advance to the rear to receive us.
" At day treak, the combat commenced every
where with the greatest ajertnefs. Maffena, who
t » was on the left, put (he enemy to the rout, and
,p' pursued them to the gates of Caldero. General
■re Robert who was on the middle causeway with the
« r 75'h, defeated the enemy with the bayenct, and
covered the field of battle with de*d bodies. 1 or
-7.' dered the Adjutant-General te advance along the
Adige, w'th a halfbrigade to turn the wh«le lefc
a of the enemy, but the eoumry presented in»»jipil»le
obllacles : it was in vain for the brave General to
plunge himfelf up to the neck in water : he could
not ess. A A diversion of any conleqaence. In the
a ! rrigtlT bet-?»een she 26th ili»d \ Nov. 16, ly)
1 had b idges" thrown over the canals and the
IS marshes.
General Angereau patted them with his divi.
vision. At fix in the morning we were within
light ; General Mad'ena, on the left ; General Ro
bert in the centre, and General Angeieiu on the
right. The enemy attacked the centre vigoroully,
which fell back. I then drew the $2d from the
e left, and placed it in itmfn:icade in the woods, and
h the inftuiit (he enemy preffcd the centre and was
k on the point of turning our right General Cardan
's ne, at the bead of the sallied forth from his
'> ambuscade, took the enemy in flank, and made
c horrible carmine.
" The left of thu enemy was fupporled by the
1 marfbes, and awed our right by thwir superior num
ber. I ordered citizcp Herctile, the officer of my
guides, to chuoie 2J me aof hi-! company to ad
vance along the Adige, to the diflance of half a
' leagn-, to turn all the marfties which supported the
S energy's left, and to fall afterwards into full gallop,
into the euemy's rear, ai d make several trumpets
c found—Tfcii m»ixrvr« was fteifetlly fuccefsfu ;
c the holtle infantry gave way, and G ei) c r al A«ge
- reau took ndvantage of the moment. But it ftiH
made rctilUnce, though it was retreating when s ,
- lnrJl column of between 8 and 9000 men, with 4
pieces of cannon, wh.,m I bad made defile thfough 1
' Porto Lignago, to take pofitioii in itie tear off the
enemy, audio tall upon their backs during'the
combat, finifhed by completely putting them to
1 the* rout. General Maffena, who had ictuined to '
the cetitre, marched ftr*igh( to j|-,« village of Ar
-1 cole, which he took, and pursued the eneuiy to
near the village of St. Boniloiio, but night prevent- '
ed our ;oing farther. '
" The fruit of the battle of Arcole is between
4a id 5000 prisoners, 4 ft. dps colours, and 1$ t
; pieces of cannon. The en .my loft at leatt 4000 <
kille , aiid had as many wppiued. Be fides the ge- '
nerals whom I mentioned, Generals Robert and
Gardenne were wounded. The adjutaut general
Vandylin has been killed. I had tilled aof my
aidß decamp, citizens 'Elliot and Mdiron, two oi- "
ticeis of the greatest dilrlititiioa 1 though young, ftili c
they promiied to gain one day the highest mditaiy
rank w,;ii glory. Out loss, though inconsiderable
wss very severe, because it included all the princi- r
pa! t'ffictts. A
" M. anwhile gen. Vauhois ha* been attacked, J
1 and his important petition at Rivolt fotced ; this t
has uncovered the blockade of Mantua. We sent c
the cavalry to Vtfenza, where 1 had left gea. Kil- I
maiie with 3000 «ie».
" At this moment I have rallied the division of
Vaubtws, 1 forced it, and it is at Caftelnovo. An
geiau is at Veroiia f Maffena about Villanuva. 1
will pursue it into Tyrol, and then wait the furren- j
der of Mantua, which cannot hold out a fortnight .
longer. The artillery has covered itfelf with gloiy.
" The genera « and officers of the Staff'ltfplayed
an unexampled adttvity and bravery. Twelve 01
fifteen were killed ; it was really a deadly combat ;
there is not one but what lus his clothe* pierced
.villi I'liilcts.
«' i will fend you the colours taken from the e
nem>,( Signed) BUONAPA/ITE-" ]
[|Ln a letter from gen. Berlhier, detailing the e
veut of the above actions, the followi»g French of
ficers are mentioned as beingskilled or wounded,
viz. killed, ad. gen. Vardeling,v>id du camps to
gen. Buonaparte, Muiron and Elliot. Woand d,
gen. Vignolle, Lafne, Vetdier, Gardennc, Bon,
Rabcrt and Vei ne.]
LONDON, December 6.
Notices Ifrom the Lords of the Admiralty are
potted up in Portfiji'Hith, Portlea, and Gofport, in
forming the inhabitants that all firefhips, gunboats,
&c. ar« completely equipped, and inviting the peo
ple t» learn the use of aitiilery, and go on board
these craft, in c fe the French should attempt to in- (
va.de this kingdom, whieth, according to this slate
paper, appears to be a matter seriously intended.
EVENTS AT THE UPPER RHINE.
Msieau, writes Nov. 22 —That the garrifun of /
had made a vigorous sortie ; the Auitriat!
ine wa« farced without a (hot ; all their attillery '
was spiked ; 20 pieces were taken. If such fuc
ccls had been expeded, arrangements wwuld have n
1 beeu made lot putfuiag i: furthct. 700 ptUwuert t
' I
r. were made, among w fo m wa , a Co!, and i Major.
y I lie bar.lt was the taolt obftimtc of the war ;
:> many German 4 mt.il Have been killed. The Fre«cli
a Gen. Defaij, had hi, horse killed under him. and
as wa S b.mfelf wooded. Ge« Laeou.be'. horse wa.
is wounded.
Ic „ *^ TES T FRENCH ACCOUNTS.
° nf r°3', r cr B f rt ! , , ier ' w '"" to the commandant
le of Lombardy and alio to the Executive D.r-Hory,
n under date rf November , 9 , at Verona, giving partil
culars «f feteral bloody i( ;>i OBS after N ° ve „| C r
the occurrerccs previous to wh.ch day, he had already
y written an account of*. At that pe, i„d, the Austrian
general Alvnzy, had eliefled a ju»aion with a co
° Nov" \T n d y and had an army ° f 4 °' o9r ' mcn
-8 - 4 ; ' ils . irrn y " me » figtt of the French and
< t C give a pitched battle; which, however,
'■ Frfnch S fneral V»U oit , was
r, to o Auftr.an r.ftht wing, under general Da
vidovKch. A bridge 01 W>aU was placed over the A
,l cufo'ff .- UOOp ' B " ght pais t0 fa " on aUJmv'. rear,
>1 cut off I.«• communications, f e i, e hi* magazine, and
e his paik 01 arhllery—and deprive him «f lubfiftence.
*V u gencra S tlu a "d ABgereau were sent acroft
A ge. a!r '' ria firft ,e " in with some of the ene
■, my? out whom he worsted. also
- fsz k"Y pQtt '' bu£ Wis " O PP t(i at Village Ar
cOie by the Aiiftrians, whose fire flanked a dyke it wa»
Y nectfflaiy to pais- In vain did endeavor to
0 hi. men, by stepping to their head with a
, Itandavd, and trying ta lead them on- the fire was too
unci lie. Buonaparte, when informed of these dilfi
f cult.es, ordered general Gueiux to aflift them with
> ;° J uo L mtu ' Buonaparte went also himfelf. He addres
sed the troops, reminded them that they were the fame
men that had taken the bridge at Lodi, raised a spirit
of enthMfiafm to profit by it. He leap • fV oni hi
horie, leized a (landard, remounted, rushed forward
1 and cried, t'ollonuyeur gentral. The column inftanfl
ly advanced, and were within thirty yards of the
. bndge, when the terrible sip of the Aurtrian, made
them tall bacn—Generals Vignolle and Ljfae were
. M " lr oa> nd-de-camp to general in chief,
was killed. Buonaparte was thrown from his horse
into a marfti, from whence he escaped with difficulty
I -he mounted again, the column rallied, and the Au
; ni lans kept within their entrenchments. At night ?e
, neral Guieux carried ifais village of Arcole— but refir
. Ed WIUI pnfoners and four pieces of cannon. The
Auliruns in the night sent their valuables to Vincenza
drew their whole force towards Konco— and again
occupied Arco.e in force. November 16, the \uflri
i an. commenced the attack—Maflena worled the ene
my, took 1,500 piiibners, 6 canaon and 4 Standard"
■ Angereaulikewiferepulfed the enemy but could not
carry Arcole. Seven generals were wounded before
this village. Buonaparte endeavored to establish a
paiTage across the canal but could not. Adjutant-gene
ral Vial was up to his neck 111 the water 111 trying to
ford the canal; and at this time Elliot, another of the
general ir. chiefs aids, was killed.
Nov. 17, a new attack was made by the French.—Maffe
na engaged on the left of the osufeway. Aisjereau, for the
third time, aiempted Nicole Marten, wis ficcelsful ; but
ngereiu was again repulsed, and fell back in disorder to the 1
bridge of Ronro. Matfena came to the llliftaiice of Ange
reau, and then vitfory declaied for thr French. The enemy
were put to flight—and quirting oil (heir positions retreated
to Vjcenza. Nov. 18, the French purlued the AUftriins to
Viccnza, and toek fevcral barges ladened with pont»on tfores,
and p:ck«d up some priloners During these events the I
French left wing was driven from Rivoli by the rigit wing as 1
the I niperial army under Davidoviteh—but the next day the
whole republican ainiy was to attack him ; and wereeonh
drnt of either capturing his troops 01 ob iging him to fly to I
Tyrol. Tiie fur render of Mantua was expeitcd to fellow im
meu a'ely In all rbfie aflioni the French took about 1
pri'-u.eta oftiens included) killed aud wounded a valt
number, took 4 Hansards, 18 pieces of canuon, matt)' eartfom, !
kvoral barges, and a great uumber of fcaliug ladders which
'he Germans had prep.rrd for atfaiilting Verona. 7 French
Gens, were wounded, (2 very fevcrely) vi*. Lafae, Viginlle,
\ ciuier, Gardaune, Boon, Robert and Verne.—Muuon and '
til 01, aids, andadj gen. killed.
Huonaparte wro(e ta the dire6lory the fame dav, with a
similar sanation of events.—He mentions a rtratagem br
.vhich he f cured the victory: he filed oft citizen Hercule,' ,
with men, to the marshes in the rear of the Imoerialifls :
They drea- near, without bei<ig perceived—and suddenly
founding fevcral trumpets, the Germans .uppofed a large bc
dv was at the back of them, and woe thrown into a confu
lion, from which they could not be laliied. He Hates that
the auiirians had 4000 kiiisd, and as many wounded ; that ,
the lols of the French was severe. He lays, this a&ion has
decid- ri the fate of ltak i and dcclaics, that he shall beat '
Gen.' Davidoviteh the.n'.xt day. ,
2 i
To the Citizehs of Philadelphia. ;
I ONCE more come foi ward to trouble you with a SuJ>
fcription. Read Mr. Barlow's letter to your govern- j
siicnt, relating to the American Captives at Algiers, and <
excufc me.
ON MONDAY NEXT, '
My Elephant will be exhibited for th« Benefit o» r those
moil unfortunate fcllow-fufferers and brothers. The price
will be optional; bu' not less than 1-4 of a dollar—chil
dren and servants at half pr.ee I (hall attend myfelf and
1 will wait on two or more of the citizens rendered to
their country, and request them to be that day at the place
of the exhibition. On Tuesday price of admission will
be half a dollar. ST. MARY.
The other Printers are requested to publish the above.
February 10 3*
— i
A Principal Book-Keeper
155 wanted in one of the Public Offices. Enquiraof the
Printer. February 10 §6t
Pantheon, '
JND RICK Etta's AMPHITHEATRE.
For EquitTKiAN and Stage Performancss.
Corner of Chemut ami Sixth-ftreeti.
FOR THE BENEFI r OF
Mr. Franklin, Riding-Mafter.
TO-MORROW EVEN'ING, Saturday, nth February,
Being the firft Benefit he has taken in this country, there
will be the greatest collection of capital Entertainments fi
ver presented in one night, consisting of
Horfemaiilhip
Rope-Dancing.
The famous Horse
Cornplanter, 1
Will exhibit his sftonilhiug Performances. 1
Ground and Lofty Tumbling,
STILL VAULTING.
The whole of the Horsemanship to conclude with
The Taylor's Journey to Brentford.
After which will be brought forward,a Comic Ballet *
(never performed here) calficd
The Dutch Wake ;
Or, The Sailor's Return from Algiers-
> > | Tickets to be had at the ufHal places. Iflt
ivir. Pickering's Letter.
This Day Publi(hed,
AND FOR SALE BT THE EDITOR,
Pricc three eights of a Dollar.
THE Letter of the Secretary of State, to Mr. PincV
ney, Minister Pleuipotentiiry sf the United States, to
the f i«Bth Republic. JFchroary fit
Philadelphia.
* '
h FRIDAY EVEMNO, FEBRUARY io, i 79 7.
d By a report from the Secretary of the Treasury,
" relative to the export* of tbe United Statei, made
it appears that there lias Seen export
ed during- the uii year '
| Io Russia in value
1 Swede* 1,096,407
. cn I ttJa I rk , , 2.675,509 ,
, Netherlands 7,875,364
i Great-Britain 23,161,545
Imperial Territory")
j & Dependencies J 35>959
Hameurgh, Bre- 1
| men, See. 9>47 1 >49®
Francs and its do- , —-
minions ' /
Spain and its do- - , .
minions J [ 3.650,678
Portugal and do. 559,448
Italy and do. 1,100,522
China & the Eaft-1 .
Indies } ''352,
Wcft-lndies 3,367,940
Africa . 537.355
North Weft Coast 23,510 *
Europe for a mar-7
ket, &«. } 43«,725
Total ©all. 67,064,097
Those exports were made from States in the
following proportion :
New Hampftiire 378,161
Maflachufetts 9,949.345
Rhode-Island 1,589,873
Connecticut 1,452,79(1
New York 12,208,927
New-jersey 5 9,227
Pennsylvania 17,513,866
Delaware 201,142
Maryland " 9,201,315
Virginia 5,268,61 f
North-Carolina 671,487
South-Caiolina 7,620,049
Georgia 950,158
Total . 67,064,097
ExtraA from the speech of the governor of Kentucky
to both houi'es of the legislature of that state, No
vember 9
" It is with peculiar pleasure that I call your atten.
tion to the present lituation of our country. If
take a retrol'pedive view of the weftem parts of the
United States immerged in war, and of this state ia
particular, so lately harraffed by the frequent inroads
of a cruel savage foe, spreading terror and distress oa
all our frontiers; and comparc it with its fituition at
present, when by the direflions and exertions of the
federal government, as the instrument of a wife and
gracious Providence, the b'.effings of praceare not or.J
ly in expeilation, but in our enjoyment ; it we ad
vert to the encreafe of our population, the rapid cxter
lion of our iettlements to the extremities of bur terrU
tory io almost every diretfion, the fleuriftving state of
our agriculture and improvements, and the establish
ment in various places of manufaituies; if we con
template the fucceflioii of a year of the greatest plen
ty to a year of the greatest scarcity, an<l the profpeds
which are opened to #griculture and commerce by the
free navigation of the river Klffifippi—in objed ie "
long and so earneitly desired by the western people,
and now fee tired to us by the treaiy concluded be
tween the United States-and the king of Spain; if we
take into our view this accumulation of bleffingt,
where is, the nation that hath greater reafsn to be
thankful, to be Konter.ted and happy ?"
Died at Scheneftady, on the lft instant, James
Duane, Esq. late Mayor of this city, aod after
wards DillriiA Judge of the United States far the
Diftrift of New York —111 which rapacities he was
highly efteemcd by the gentlemen of the profcffion,
hot as a man of great legal acquirements, and cf
itrmr.efs and 'ntegrity in all his decisions. America
is also highly indebted 10 him for his patriotic and
able exertions during the late war.
Died at Maiblehead, General John Glover;
a citizen, whose ferviees during the icvolution, will
ever render his memory deai te the friends of his
country.
Isicw Theatre.
ON FRIDAY EVENING, February 10,
Will be presented, (for the fifth tune) an Historical
Flay, called
Columbus;
Or, A WORLD DISCOVERED.
To which will be added,
A COMIC OPERA, in a (as performed at Covetlt
Garden Theatre upwards of 150 nights} called
Lock and Key.
On Monday—A celebrated NEW COMEDY, (written
by the author of Columbus, The Childien in the Wood,&c.)
galled THE W Y TO GET MARRIED ; with Eater'
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
On SATURDAY E VENING,
February nth, pt 7 o'clock,
At 7 o'clock, will he delivered
The Effetts of Ambition and Guilt,
Coniidtred, traced and exemplified in the character of
Macbeth.
1
With a recitation of tbe whole character, and moral
and critical observations on the chara&er, and on the au
thor.
(£j* On Tuesday, February 14,
Recitations from the Chara&cr of
H A M I. E T,
With observations on the Tragedy and the anther.
Tickets to be had of Mr. Poullon, jun. at the Library ;
at rar. M'Elwee's looking-glass-store, No. 70, S. Fourth
ftreet; and at Mr. Carey's, Bookseller, Market-fireet—
Half a dollar each.
IN I"HE PRESS,
Ajid fpeediiy will be publ Ihed,
By William Cobbctt and John Ormr»d,
TWO LETTERS
On the Prapofals for
PEACE,
With
The Regicide Directory
OF FRANCE.
By the Right Honorable £smund Bu&xe, Efyuire.
i'vbiuaiv 19 fdett
iCanal Lottery, No. 11.
Scheme of a Lotiery, authorized by an aftentitled
" An aft to enable the President and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Sufquehannah navigation, to raise, by
way of Lottery, the Turn of Four Hundred Thousand
Dollars, for the-purpofe of completing the works, in
their acts of incorporation mentioned."
Dalian
I Prize of twenty thousand dollars, 10,000
t of ten thousand dollars, 10,000
5 of four thousand dollars each, to
be paid to the pofleftbrs of the-five
numbers firft out of the wheel on the last
day's drawing, at which time Jhere (hall
not be less than 500 numbers undrawn, »o,«oo
10 of two thousand dollars each, 20,000
20 of one thousand dollars each, 10,000
43 of five hundred dollars 21,500
hundred dollars each, 20,000
_ 100 of one hundred dollar* each, 10,000
220%/ fifty dollars each, 11,000
29,500 of five dollars each, 147,500
30,000 Tickets at ten dollars each. 300,000
Six dollars for each ticket will only be demanded at
the time offsle.
All prizes fliall be paid ten days after the drawing is
finilhed, upon the demand of the pofleffor of a fortunate
tieket, fubjeifl toa deduiftion of fifteen per cent. I
Such prizes as are not demanded within 12 months
after the Drawing is finilhed, of which public notice
will be given, fliall be conlidercd as relinquilhed for
the ofe of the Canal and applied accordingly.
At a meeting of the President and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Sufquehanna Canal Navigation—and
the President and Managers of the Delaware and
Ca«^,
Resolved, That Joseph Ball, John Steinmctr, Stan
difh Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Crea, John Mil
ler, junr. a»d William Montgomery be a committee
to arrange and dire<ft the mode of dilpofing of the
tickets ; which committee fliall deposit the money in
Bank, to be carried to the credit «f an account to be o
pened for the Lottery.
At a meeting of the Canal Board, held January 16,'97,
Resolved, That the coigmittee for conducing the
Lottery hp directed to commence the (drawing on the
firft day of March next.
Extra<sl from the minutes,
Wi. M. Smith, Secretary.
Joseph Ball, 1
John Sttinmclz, I
&tandijh ForJe,
Francis Weft) Managers.
James M'Crea,
Johu Miller, jun.
William Montgomery, J
Jan. 20. th& f.tf
FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial r Hyson Skin.
Hyson, V Fresh Teas. < Souchong,
Young Hyson, ) (.Bohca
Dec. 9. 3taw3«i.
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aft'ortment of eveiy thing neeeffary
to be used forthe
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Misioral Teeth, and Human k Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice in powder ; Opiate ;• excellent Elixir for
sweetening the mouth and preserving the teeth—he
also furnifhes Brulhes and loft Sponges. ,
He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, above
Pourth-ftreet.
November 26. tts
t The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was bought for Tea Thousand
Dc'tars.
He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet.
He eats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water ; he has drank some days forty bottles of porter,
drawing the corks with his trunk.
He is perfectly inoffenfive; travels loose, at the
rate of five miles an hour, and is the greatest curiosity
ever brqpght to this Continent.
He is to be seen 'till the 15th of Jannary, in I
Market-street between Third and Fourth-streets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him—
after which time the former price bf half a dollar will
be resumed.
He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather
will permit.
December 31 d
A CARD.
If Monsieur G. H. Sohle,
Who left Bordeaux the 20th June last, and arrived
at Boston dxiut the middle of Avjguft, in the schooner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is requested to call on
Joseph Anthony & Co. No. j, Chefnut-ftreet, who
will give him some iaformation of importance-
December 24, 1796. $
50 Dollars Reward.
LOST, last evening, between eight and nine o'clock,
al the fubferiber was going to his house at the Tails of
Schuylkill, from the house of his father-in-law, Mr.
Francis Stewart, in Sugar-alley, between Sixth and Se
venth-streets, above Market-street,
A black POCKET-BOOK,
Containing 1190 Dollars, in Bank-Notes
From 5 to 100 Dollars each,
One of which was of the Branch-Bank of New-York,
and several papers, futh as receipts and orders. The
road the fubferiber fook, was the Falls road, crofling it
the Upper Ferry.
■ Whoever finds the above Pocket-Book, and returns it'
to the fubferiber at the Falls, or to his fatker-ii)-law,
mr Stewart, living in Sugar Alley, &ail be entitled to
the above reward, paid by
JAMES HAFFY.
Feb - 3- 5^
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE and PRICE,
No. 79, Market-street,
HAVE IMPORT ED, by the late arrivals from
London, a large jflortment «f WARRANTED
WATCHES, e»nfifting of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with feeowds, of fnperior
workmanfliip and elegance ; alio capp'd and jewel'd
and plain Gold Waicbes ; capp'd & jewell'd, capp'd,
frconds, day «f the mouth, and plain Silver Watches •
eight day & chamber Clocks.; elegant French Clocks ,
with marble frames ; eight day snd thirty iionr, brass i
works, &c.
Decern bet »», 1796. -
For Sale,
By the Subscribers —In PENN-STRF.PT,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLI NGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30 w&f
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third flireet.oppofite the nasionainew Bank"
SAMUEL M KRAUNCF.S and JOHN VAN REED,
ha ire entered into co-partnership, undei the firm of
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the bufines of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commission merchant!. They buy and
fell on commission every species of stock, nites of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and latrds, &c.
Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. ill kinds of
writings in the conveyancing line, done with*eatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and book* fettled, in the
most correct manner. Constant attendance will be given.
They solicit a ihare of the public favor ; they tre deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it. %
If. B. The utmost secrecy observed.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
Philad. August 27, 170<5. m&wtf
Will be published, on IVidntfday next,
BY Mess' Dobfor., Carev, Campbell, Rice, and the o:her*
Bookfeilcrs, price One Dollar and twenty-five cencs, elegant
ly printed on woye paper, and houprcfifed, by John Thorap
fon f
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The CONSTITUTIONS of tht several Stales,
With each other, and with that of the United States:
exhibiting in Tablet, the prominent features of eaehCon
ftitution, and clafiing togcthor their most important pro
vifionj, under the several heads of administration ; with
Notes and Observations. By William Smith, of South-
Carolina, L L. D* and member of the Congrcfs of the
United States. Dedicated to tho People of the United
States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior paper, at
3-4ths_i>f a dollar. February 6 mwf
FOR SALE, ~
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL fitiiated, laying on and between Marsh
and Becch Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
four fcparat£ Patents.. For terras of sale apply to
Win. Blackburn,
"N«. 64, South Second-ftrset
January ij. mwftf
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
Smth Second-street.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For raising Sixty Thou fa nd Dollars, agreeably to in Aft of
the Legislature of Pennfylvaaia, pafied during the lalt
. feflion, for buijding a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, aL the Borough of Reading, in the Cqtnty of
Berks. Dollars.
1 Prize of 20,000 Dollars . 20,000
1 do. of to,ooo do. - - 10,000
3 do. of 5,000 do. * 15,000
4 do. of 2,000 do. . . 8,000
10 do, of 1,000 do. ... 20,000
39 do. of 500 do. . . 19,500
80 do. of 200 do. . . i6|ooo
too do. of 100 do. ... 20,000
300 do. of $« do. - . is,ooc
1 do. of s#o do. to be paid the posies- >
for f the firft drawn uo. J 5
5 do. of 3, »*0 do. to be paid poire/Tors f
of the five lati drawn uos J l '*' e
9,400 do. o 15 do. : . 141,000
10,054 Prizes 300,000
19,946 Blanks
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars goo,ooo
All Prizes shall be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
finifhed, upon the demand of a poffeflor of a fortunate
picket, fubjeft to a deduction of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as fooatos the Tickets are disposed
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William IVitman,
Jofefh Hiefter, James Diemer, Thomas Dundas,
James May, JcJmVtto, John Keim, Daniel Graejf,
Sebaflian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the 9th, 1796.
rickets.in the Canal Lottery, No. a, to be had at the
above office, where the carliiift iniormation of the draw
ing of the Waldington No. 2, and Patterfon Lottery's,
are received, and checkbooks for examination ana regif
te«ngare kept.
Tickets in the above Lottery to be had at Mr, Sheri
dan's Race-ltreet, John Hay, North Third-ftrect and
Henry Sweyer's, German Town.
January 26 mwtf
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for fal«— a
Check Book" for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and r.-giftering, for
the City of Wafbington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets-are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prises in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wife to pyrchafe or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands!
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
%* Also I ickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
fak at Ten Dollws each, which will be drawn early in
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, January iS, 1797.
Houses and Lots for sale,
1} Y the Subscriber, in the town of West-Chester Chef-
LJ ter county, 25 miles from Philadelphia, on the ereat
state-road, 4ead.ng Westward- Viz. No. 1. A two-flory
Stone Hauls, the corner of Highand Gay streets, 40 feet
front by 34 feet deep, including a ,very convenient florc
houfe . the House contains ten well-fmifhed rooms, a kit
chen and entry : the Lot is 144 feet front on Gay-street
—equal tc any (land in West-Chester. No. 1. A two-sto
ry house adjoining, » 7 feet front, containing eleven
J , !■ rooms > both being ceiled id the garrets, house
and lot fame depth as the other, a kitchen, & oellars
under both houses, with good stables on the lots. These
Houses are almost new, done by good workmen, in a
masterly manner. No. 3. a Lot 42 feet front. No. 4
L* ?' j N °" 5 A 44 ' N# " 6 ' 4J 9 all of them'
ten Tods deep. On two of the above are ere&ed three lot
and frame houses, two flories high, cellars under the
whole, and a small liable to each*
The above Lots are Stunted near the Court-Houfe. The
whole will be cxpofed to PUBLIC SALE, on the 21ft an d
Sid days 01 February .next, at two o'clock, when the con
ditions will be ma* known. PofTeffisu may be had the
firft of April next. The Title is indisputable.
January 28 JOHN KINNARD.
' > I»aw3w
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AWAY from the lubfcriber on the 43d OAob«r,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 21 years
old ; abou; % feet 8 inches high ; had on a mked gree.
coat, jyith a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
a striped veil; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much'worn. It is probable he may change
his name and dress. He has been accustomed to driving
a cafriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for femring him so that the fubferiber may get him
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges piid by
Robins Chambcrlaine.
Eafton. Maryland, Nov. IP. 14 imzawtf
" No. 17c.
Diflriß of Pennsylvania, 'to wit.
BE it remembered, that on the 24th day of January
in the twenty-fiift year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Thompson of'the laid diftrltfr ,
hath deposited in this office the title of a Book, the i*ight
whereof he claims as proprietor, in the words following
to wit— 5
" A Comparative View of the Constitutions of the
several States with each other, and with that of the
United States, exhibiting in tables the prominent features
of each Constitution, and classing together their most
important provisions under tlie several. heads of adminis
tration : with notes and observations. By William Smith
of South-Carolina, il, o. and member of the Congress
of the United States."
In conformity to the a A of the Congress of the United
States, intituled "An Aft for the encouragement of
learning by securing the copies of maps, charts and books,
to the authors and proprietors of such copies during ths
times therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of theDiCtricl of Pennsylvania
Feb. I. Jawj
DANCING
■TAUGHT BY
MRS. B r R N,
Of the New Theatre, To Ladies only.
THINKING it a great advantage for them to hive a
Ftmnlc Tutor in that art, pledges herfelf to their par
ents and friends to tak» all poffiblc care in their'inftru&ion.
In addition to the Dances taught in Philadelphia, means
to teach the Minuet, Minuet de la Cour, Allemand, Ga
vot, Quadrilles, Strathspeys, and all Scotch Dances ; and
above all to pay particnlar attention to that veTy necessary
part Polite Addrcfs. For pariiuilars enquire of Mrs. £vm,
No- 70 north Eighth-street. Feivury< mwftf
Samuel Richardet
T3 ESPECTFULLY {informs the Gentleman
Merchants, that he has this day opened' th* CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia.
The Subfeription Room will be furnifhed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, togothcr with those of the principal com
mercial citiss of Europe—They will be rugularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on anyiaccount.
Tea, CofTee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the ui'ual refrefkments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choictft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
approved Malt Liquqrs from London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and raxlieft
productions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hanrs most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
regularly kept for canveniency, tht fiillof Fare to be had
at ths bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite.
gj" Samuel Richakdxt will behappy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part ihall be wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguifh
ingly honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
Frejb Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, izft. &c.
This day landing from the Clip Eagle, captain Fofdick,
I ' from London,
' And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Sccond-ftreets,
A moji capital and sxtenfivc siflortmcnt of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOVVER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c. &c.
Among which are,
Five kinds Aiparagus Three: kinds Crefles
Four Berecole Twelve Onion
Twenty-five ' Beans Thirteen Radiih
Si* Beets Fifteen Turnip
Eleven Brocolij Fifteen Peas
Twenty-fix Cabbage Six ' Savoy
Six Carrot Four Farfnip
Three Cauliflower Twenty-three Meloa
F' ve Celery Twenty-one Lettuce
T et Cucutnberl
Common and lemon Thyme .
Curled lsaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Mavygold Pot Marjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek Kail Shallot*
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin -Lucerne
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. 4cc.
With a curious colleaion of the most efteeme'd
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
"Being the most extensive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Seedsman in London, and
are warranted frelh and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Det. 17. j
Waftungton Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may bepurchafed or
«chai.g*d for prizes, at the Offioe, No. ,47, Chefnut
ftreet where a corr.it Numerical Book is kept for public
infpeiSion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
changed for prizes diawn in the Waffiington Lottery, of
'ie 54 , and J* th da 7 s returns are received.
1 n<j Bulinefs of a Broker carried on as usual.
nnar y »• ttstf
Insurance Company of the State of
Pennsylvania.
T /'T £ll ' that th « drredtbrs h>ve de-
, J la red a dividend of thiktv ooilars per Ihare on
he C ft"ockh S la f the laft , flX months: which will be paid to '
inK " " th£lr ICgi ' re P rrfciUa tives e after the
... SAM. W. FISHFR, Sec'Y.
Philadelphia, Feb. ad, 1797. dtloth
Bank of Pennsylvania,
rrefeend^ii etmg ° f Dirc£ior^'i: s day, a dividend of
Iwteen dollars on each sHare was declared for the kit
k »»«
JONATHAN SMITH, Caftier.
, J "'3- -
I NOTICE.
<;f ' he U " ited StAt «. i»th e
i North-Wcftfernr .tr itory, heretofore adverted
m the several public papers, will commence this ewn
tag, at the City Tavefii—- to be continued from dar
today, till the tenth of February next , if not sooner
LOrd.
January 4 $
"Pennsylvania Population Com pan 7"
NOTICE is hereby given, to such Shareholder, «
as havs not pud their afleffnienh, on theirlhare*-
pay tba,fame immediately to the Secretary of the
ny, at the Company 1 . Office, No. .53 north Foutth--u, e ."
Philadelphia. They are further informed, that in .iV
of paying the fame within thirty days from the 41 , p.
bruary, imftant, the leveral forfeitures will bs IWifiJy ci"
a&ed, in conformity to the 2lit article of affoeittieh.
By ord«r of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Secretary
J-±±
Waihington Canal Lottery
/ N O . I,
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifjd
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand
two hundred, and fifty dollars, fqt the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Waihington, fro*i th P 0
to&iacto theEaftern Branch Harbour. 1
The following ib ;he 3CHEME of No. I.
Viz .1 Prize of 10,000 dojiars, 20,000
I ditto 10,000 jo 000
7 last drawn 7
Tickets, each J 5,000 ' 3J,000
6 ditto x,ooo 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,003
ao ditto 100 a>ooo
jj ditto 50 , )7J „
5750 ditto i» 69,008
To be raised for ch« Caeal, 16,15®
5850 Prizes, ,175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
£5* The Commillioners have taken the Securities »e
quired by the aforefaid ad for the pnndlual payment of
the prizis.
The drawing of this I.ottery wilj commence, without
delay, as thr Tickets 3re fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th«
drawing is finifhed, lhall be considered as relinquished for
the benefit »f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL,o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
"Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of WalhiDgton, Feb. 11. $
A PARCEL OF VERY FINE
St. Croix Sugars and Rum,
JAMAICA SPIRITS, and
LAGUI&A HIDES, v
.For Sale by
Feb. 7.—<J*w JAMES TARD.
"* TO BE SOLD, *""*
The Time of a smart, aflive, young
Negro Wench,
BETWEEN I3and 14 years of age, andjuft had the (mall
pox. For terms, apply at .Vr.WIi.LI AM BAXTER'S, in
south Front-street, No. 312, below Almond-ftieet.
Fcbmary 1
A Quantity of Brandv,
FIRST & 2d proof,
'Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 4odo2en each
Glass Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glak, in boxes, of different lues '
Hazlenuts, in sacks
Whiting "J
Copperas ( . ,
C ,n hhd, ;
& Spanilh Brown J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 $
This Day is Published,
By BIOREN MADAN, at their Printing Oflica,
No. 77, Dock-flreet, and fold by the principal
Booksellers in this City.
The American Annual Register ;
Or biftorical Me.iioirs of the United States, for the
Year 1796.
No. 167. 1
D'tflnQ of Pennsylvania, to wit :
Be it remembei ed, that on the I'jlh day of January
jn the Twenty-fir A year of Independence of the-
United States of America, Bi(>V*tv-& -NUSan-Vf.lJf? MX
diflridt have depofi'ed in this Olike the title of a Bcck
the Right whereof they claim as Fropri^tors' in the
words following to wit:
" The American Annual RepiftcT, or Historical
" Memoirs of the United States,, for tlje year 1796.
Tn conformity to the aft of the Congrefs-or the
United States intituled "An a iff for the encourage
ment of learning by securing the copies of Maps,
Charts and Books, to tlie authors and proprietors of
such copies during the time therein mentioned."
Samuel Caldwell,
Clerk Pennsylvania Diftrid.
January 25. iaw4
PURSUANT to a Rcfolve of the Board of Tiullees of
Washington Academy, in Somerset County, and
State of Maryland,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
"I iyit (he office of Principal Teacher in the said fchdol Ji«
vacant.
AGENTI.EMANquahfied to teach the higher Greek and
Latin Cladics, Ceography, and the Mathematics, with
luch other branches ol literature as are ufualiy taught in such
Cchools, would Hieet with' liberal encouragement, and', tt :s
believed, would obtain a very eligible Settlement, Foi the
prelent, the Truflees would fee wiiiing to conrract with a pt r
fon capable ol taking charge of a Grammar S hool.
As this lnditutio.i is piovidcd wiih build iiij>sfufricicnt to
accommodate the principal and bis family, and trom lcvemy
to eighty a library, an excellent philosophical and ma
tlieniaticai apparatus, globes, maps, &c; nas refpectahlc
funds, and is lituaLed in a plentiful and agreeable part of the
Country ; nothing feeins wanting to naake it rank aniong the
raoll ulef: 1 (emmaries in this part ot the Union, butahuuble
charafler to pulide in it.
Proposals may be addrelfcd to the fubferi'ber, in Princely
Anile, in the neighborhood of t'le Academy, or to £><i£lof
Martin L Haymi, No 83, liortn Third-street, Phila
delphia, or to ihe Fruiter pereoi.
EZEKIEL HAYNIE.
January ao. Feb. 7. tu&.(Bw
PRINTED BY JOHN FEN NO
—No. 119 —
CHBSKW T-S TtJIT.
[Pricc Eight Dollars p«r Annum.]