. . ..J \ '
#a?ette of rn tßnitetJ States, <b> Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Numbea 1392.] ' THURSDJT EVENING, FEBRUART 23, 1797. [VOLUME XI.
For CHARTER,
the, Danish brig
Friendship,
JSSKBKmm Lorenlx Matz.cn, Master,
A strong, new vessel, with a Mediterranean FaCs, bur
then abeut 140 tons. For term, apply to
February 19- § PHILIPS. CRAMOND & Qo-
For Freight, for Newbury-port, Ports
— mouth or Boston,
the schooner
Industry,
■ Francis Salter, Majler,
IS°uow ready to take in freight, at Arch-street wharf.
Apply to the matter on board.
FOR SALE,
A few barrels Exeelleht CYDhR.
February iS ' 11 IW
sit tie requejl of federal Ladies and Gentlemen. n
THE NEW ROTUNDA •)
AT Mr. kMKETTS'S AMrHITHEATRE, ,
WILL, on Thursday evening, February 23, be epen
for the rcceytixn of company, with the fame fu
ptrb decoratious as / on the PRESIDENT'S BIR I'H
NIGHT There wilt be a variety of Stage Performances,
such as ROPE DANCING,
Song; and Duets by, Mr. and Mrs. Chambers and Miss
Sully. THE RUINS OF TROY, or The W«rld tHrn'd
uplide down, a Hornpipe, by Miss Sully.
A comic ballet dance ealled POOR [AC'K or the Bene
volent Cre«». , (
The Jockies'Hornpipe, or the fpons ol the tart, by Mr.
Ricketti and four assistants.
Th- whole of the evening's entertainments to conclude
with a grand ierions Pantomime,
Brought out ftrft in America by Mr. Ricketts,
i v.L Lartt .u:i> J called, the j
4 Death of Captain Cook. j
The Door to open at 5 and the performances to
commence at a quarter after 6 o'clock.
New Theatre. 1
On THURSDAY EVENING, february 23,
Will be prefeated, a tragedy, called
Jane Shore.
Duke of Glofter Mr. Warren
Lord Hal\ings Mr. Wignell
Catefby Mr. Warrell, jun.
Sir Richard Ratcliffe Mr. Dartey, jun.
Belmour Mr. Fox
Dumont Mr. Mdreton
Earl of Derby Mr. Warrell ,
Alieia Mrs. Merry 1
Jane Shore Mrs. Morris
To which will be added,
(For the firft time in this Theatre, —and with the original
Overture and French Mulic, compoled by Monfr. Roche
fort, never performed in America)
A Grand, Serious, PANTOMIME BALLET, called
The Death of Capt. Cook ;
[As performed in Covent-Garden Theatre, London, under J
the dirtttion of Mr. Byrh*, upwards of Five Hund
kkd Nichts, with univerlal appiaufe.]
Aim Mum dJt l/fIU du
rations.
Describing an Exatt Representation of the Manners and Cuf
itoms of the Natives of Owhyhee, in the Pacific Ocean.
f Mess s. Byrne
I Francis ]
Wiircn <
The|Principal Characters Darley
I More ton
% Fox ,
I Warrell
and Mrs Bvrne. j
Indians, —Messrs. J. D-rley, J. Warrell, Mitchell, Sig Doc- ,
tor, Mucdonald, Motgan M. St. Marc, M, Laveocy, &c. .
Indian Women, —Mrs. Harvey, Mrs Metchtler, Mrs. DO6I- j
or, Miss Melbourne, Mil# 1 Miss Bates, Miss
Oldfield, Miss Anderfon. M'lie Sophie, &c.
w: h DANCES, PROCESSIONS, &c.
The Scenery designed aud executed by Mr. Milbournk. ]
A*#* On Friday, Evert One has his Fault.
t4-+ On Saturday, The Wheel of Fortune ; —with
Entertainments.
The fourth nigfit of THE WAY TO GET MAR
RIED will be on Monday next.
Box, One Dollar twen«y-five cents. Pit Seven Eighths
of a Dollar, ahd Gallery, half a dollar. ,
Tickets to be had at H. & P. I'lice's flook-ftore
No. 50 High-street, and at the Office adjoining the <
Thcatrel 1
Ladies and Gentlemen are requeued to fend their
servants to keep places a quart* before 5 o'clock, and
to order them, as soon as the company are feared, to
withdraw, as they cannot 011 any account be permit
ted to remain.
The Boors «f the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precife.ly at 6 o'clock. (
Places For the Boxes to t>e taken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from 10 till 2 o'clock, and from
16 till 4 on the days of performance.'
(£> A'os ICE.
r Tp , HE Sales of LANDS of the United States, in the
A North-Western Territory, heretofore advertised
in the several public papers, will commence this even
ing,~*t«he_City Tavern to be continued from day
to day, 'till the tenth Of rvlAßdl. next, i£ not fnoner
JoM.
—. Jamrarv 4 ft
Notice. •
THE ELEPHANT will leave town positively ear
'y in March., /
Admittame—one quarter of a dollar. J
Children—half price.
N. B. An ELEPHANT TOOTH weighing 54,
pounds to be fold. Enquire at the place where the Ele- -
phant ii kept.
Feb. io. '1
On -Saturday,
The ijth inflant, 217 o'clock imhe evening,
Willie Sold by Auftion, at the Coffee-Houfe,
Three adj»ining LOTS of GROUND, in the townftip
of Mojamenfing, a little to the southward of South-street,
ai>d adjoining a 30 feet wide lane, called the Irish Tract
Lane, and alf® adjoining lands of SamHel PoweU, de- '
ceased. '
No. 1. Containing 4 acres and 83 perche.
■
No. 3. Containing 4 acres and 56 perches 1
Plan* of the Lots are at the Cotfeu-Houfe. I
Feb. 17 EDV\ RD FOX, Aua'r.
~ WANTS A PLACE. ' I
A Woman who can be weH recommeeded for honesty, so- *
briciv, and good temper. She wiihes to engage as cham
b«rmai<T. or sempstress for low wages on condition she may a
retain a voung child with her. Enquire at No. 58 South fl
Ffout urcct. February 16 d F
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & 2d proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumbler!', in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different files
Hazlenuts, in fockl
Whiting
te (
Sc Spaniih Brown J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 §
Mr. Pickering's Letter.
This Day Published,
AND FOR SALE BY THE EDITOR,
Price three eights of a Dollar.
THE Letter of the Secretu'y of State, to Mr. Pinck
ney, Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States, to
:hc French Republic. February 9.
, Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, &c.
Th» day landing from the (hip Eagle, captain Fofdick,
'• from London,
And FOR SALE by
i GOLDTHWAIT & MOQRE,
CorneV of Walnut and Stcond-ftreets,
A mojl capital and txtenfivc Assortment of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c. &c.
e Among which are,
Fire kinds Threi kinds Crefles
Fonr Berecoje Twelve Onion
Twenty-five Beans Thirteen Radilh
Six Beets Fifteen Turnip
Eleven •Brocoh rifte«B ..iC?? 5
o Twenty-fix Cabbage Six Savoy
■Six Carrot Four Parsnip
- Three Cauliflower Twenty-three Melon
Five Celery Twenty-one Lettuce
Ten Cucumber
Common and lerilon Thyme
|> Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Marygold Pot Marjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. &c.
With a curious collection of the mall esteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the mod extensive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Se dfman in Louden, and
are warranted frefli and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17
*' For Sale,
8000 doz'n BRISTOL BOTTLES
• Bar IRON
«!Ck
; tas
CLARET, in hogsheads and cases
SvVEETO!L in cases
February 17 > Apply to F. .CCPPINGER,
i7't y Na. ?-2i Sjuih Froiit jtrcet.
For Sale,
r.j ATRAC 7 OF LAND, ,
CON:aming 320 acres, in Harford county, 5 miles dis
tant from Belle-Air, 27 from Baltimore : the im
provements are, a twb-ftory brick dwelling-houie, finifh
ed in a genteel manner, with stone kjtchen and cellar ;
a barn, and other convenienc out btiildings; a GRISTr
MtLL, lately built* in a good stand fer country or mer
chant work ; apple-orchard and other fruit-trees ; 30 a
cres of prime timothy meadow ; and nearly as much more
may be miade from tha conveniency of watering ; 80 acres
c " of woodland, welltimcered. The fields are well la-id off,
• and under good fence : the situation is very ple&fant and
healthy. The whole of this property may be had for
4 25e0!. Two thirds in hand, and the remainder in easy
payments, 22501. would be taken, all cash. PolFeffion'
might betfiad in 60 cUys after contract, and an indifpyta
■ ble title given by ROBERT BRYARLY.
th February 20
Pennsylvania Population Company.
*•" XTOTiCE is hereby given, to such Share-holders as
i. ii as have not paid their alTeflments on theirfhares—to
pay the fame immediately to the Secretary of the Compa
riy, at the Company's Office, No. 53 north Fourth-street,
e Philadelphia. They are further informed, that.in default
ic of paying the fame withi i thirty days from the 4th of
hr'iary, inflant, the several forfeitures will be ftri&ly ex
ir ael» .l, in conformity to the 21ft article of association.
d By order ®f the Board,
o SOL. MARACHE, Secretary
> Feb. 2. 4 §3O
JUST ALi RlPE'pf
By the Daniih ship Friendlhip, captain Matzen, £rom
Oporto, 1
n Red Port Wine,
InPipes, Hogsheads anal Quarter-Calks,
150 Boxes of Lemons,
(For Sale by
Philips, Cramond & Co.
y. February 9 5
* F~O~R S ALE,
ft NEAT plain CHA RIOT, ivhitb has been o"ty three
- L months in use ;it cijl one thoufunddollars eajb, Jnd is noiv
offered at a onjtderable payable jn 'approved Nates at 3
or 6 months.
Also, tivo pair of Carriage Horfu. The Chariot and one
pair of the Horses are well ivorth the attention of any person de
firotis of pur chafing.
Enquire at Mr. KIDS, Market-street.
4. February.22 * , *2/
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
On THURSDAY EVENING, February 13,
At 7 o'cloak, will be delivered,
Fiji ST raCf
,! Ode——The of A merica
Haflpiu-'i delcripthn of a fop Shikefpeare
Tfll the World's a Stage Ditto
SECOND PART
Caio's Speech to the Senate
His Scene with Caefttr's Ambaflador
His Speech over the Body of his Sob
THIRD PART ,
Brutus and Caffius
. The Quarrel of Brutus and Caffius
Tickets to be had of ivTr. Poulfon, jua. at the Library ;
, atmr. M'F.twec's looking-glafs-llore, No. 70, S. fourth
h llreet; and at Mr. Carey't, Bookseller, Market-street
Half a uoliar eaJi.
, Grand Concert.
On SATURDAY EVENING, the 7.stb Infant,
At OELLER'S ROOM. „
SIGNOR TRISOBIO,/™* Italy, projcjjor of vocal music,
proposes to give a contert of wtcal and njiruntental ntufic in |
tbe mojl so*npl<tc manner, *whicb will manifeflhis r.f. rcl to a pub'
ZCS lieivboft pfttHitn h* entreats fur the frfi time. He is hap by in
having engaged Mw ladies > h : fchntars, namely, Mrs. Hend ay las
Axadlle. RotJTetin, tu£« will fvig feveralfAeft pieces ; and Mr.
£g|Lj Seckeudorf r '"X ■<» Italian air. There ivill be executed
a d:i(t t and a totib by three i>9tcet. The leader of tit Mr. (
Collet, ivill perform a, concert 9 on the v'rslin, and mr. Guenin two-
iber or? the fort*. Amongst fever al serious and comic songs
which Signer Trfubio "will, ftng, he promises to perform at.io a-
—*- love ; that it to fay, an imitation of three Italian Nuns ; and as-
teruaards thefavourite comicfong of the Cats. Aimofl all the songs j,
which "will he fang, ivill be pr inted jwitb the mvjM y and exposed jj
for the convenience as ivhoei'er ivffhes to pur chafe them —"Tickets p
One Dollar, it be had at ooiler's Hotel; at mr. Bradford' s book- p
fore, No. 8, Stuth Front-firegt ; at mr. Wtllig s mujicxl maga- | />
Pinck- z * ne * No 185, inarket-flreet ;at mr. Chalks circulating library, Q
tes to ThMflreet, between Arch and RaceJlreets; an Jat mr. Trifobia, C
_ ' No. 66, North Front-freet. — S
- The Concert will commence at 6e clock.
1 eedSy February 18- * 7*• *
For 6ale,
'Hick, A Quantity of Excellent
Turks-Illand Salt,'
Aud a few hogsheads 5
3d and 4th proof Rum. <
°f Enquire of
EDS, Jehu Hollingsworth S3 5 Co.
February 17 ■ I
o'nvn Mahogany and Logwood.
Rad'ilh A Cargo for Sale on bosrd of the ft.ip Sally, captain
Turnip Gell° n , jutl arrived from Honduras.
p-n - Apply'to •
Savoy PHILIPS, CRAMQNDjf Co ,
Parsnip February 9 §__
Lettuce & con venient stable
Situate!) in Laurel Court—3 Stalls therein to be rent
ed, with the privilege of using the Hay-Loft.
Eight years of the time of service of a NEGRO MAN
for sale. He is acc*llomed to house work, and capable of
1 taking care of Horses. Enquire of the Printer.
February II ft thtf
c c crns Le Breton,
ted SIfRCEON-DENTIST,
, Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
scity. King and Royal Family nf France, member of the
on, and College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keep 6 a complete aflbrtment of evety thing neceflary
ve. to be used forthe
Prefervation of the Mouth and Teeth,
Patent Minoral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice in powder Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
fwcetening thfe mouth and preserving the teeth —he
also furnifhe? Brushes and fnft Sponges.
He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, above
Fourth-flreet.
November 16. t ts
ftrcet. A House and Lot.
FOR SALE,
A HOUSE and Lot, in a good neighbourhood, and
v.x pleasant situation it is the fccond House east of sth
the im- 'treet, ot that hahdfome row of new buildings, now near
finifti- ''nifbing, situate on Arch, between Fourth and Fifth
' cellar ; ftrte'f ; and ii about twenty feet front and forty-two feet
GRIST- deep : the Lot is absut eighty feet deep, more or less:
or mer- above the height of the firft flory Has a pleasant open
;; 30 a- South,-of pediips three hundred fc.t more,
ch more PofTeiiion may be had about the Ift of ApHl or May next.
80 acres Terms arc, three thousand dollars to be paid on receiv
laidoff ingthe title, and the residue if desired may remain for
font and seven years on fecunty and inter^ft —
had for vacant lots, fit»ate on Arch street, any where be
in easy tween Front and Twelfth streets, will to taken in pay
offeffidn' incnt » either in part t>r for the whole amount of the pur-
chafe; according to their value at liberal rates.
R.LY. 0J further particulars, to apply at the Counting
s6# House of tl\e Subscriber, Arch-ftrcet, No. 146, any
— 1 ' aiorainj, from 7to 8 o'clock.
any. ivilliam sansqm.
lders as Febrmry 21
ires to p or g a the Subscribers,
Compa- ■ . ' '
h-ftreet, Georgia Cotton
1 default Carolina Indigo
1 of Fe» Fyaland Teneriffe Wines
(ftly ex- Ravens Duck
on. Gurrihs
Coffahs
stary India Bandana Handkerchie/s
• §3O One Trunk containing Sewing- Silks and Silk
and Cotton Handkerchiefs
, N. if J. FXAZIER,
n ' m Np- 95, S. Front-street.
February 21.——4wjtaw
This Day is Fubiifhed,
By BIOREN If MADAN, at their Printing Office,
No. 77, Dock-flreet, and fold by the principal
Booksellers iu<tiis City.
Co. The American Annual Register ;
5 Or hiftorkal Me.noirs of the United States, for the
Year 1796.
No. 167.
"j- i ' Jr " Dijfrid of Plnnfylvania, to wit :
'its ji ' ® e it remr mbered, that on the 19th day of January
J in the Twenty-firft year of the Independence of the
and one United States of America, Biot en & Marfan of tbe said
er/on de- diflriA have depofifed in this Office the tide of a Book
the Right whereof they claim as Proprietors in the
words following t« wit:
»2t " The American Annual Register, or Historical
In conformity to the aft »>f the Congress of the '
United States entituled " All aft for the encourage- [
ment of learning by fecu{ing the copies of Maps, j
> Charts arid Books, to the agthors and proprietors of
filch copies during the time therein mentioned."
23, Samuel Caldwell,
Clerk Pennsylvania Diftrift.
January ij. iaw4
efpeare LOS T,
itt° t*ETWEEN the fubferibers' house and the Bank of
-D the United States, John Guest & Co's NOTE,
dated 17th June, payable to Thomas and John Clif
ford, or
for 640 Dollars. Whoever has found'the fame, and
will bring it tb the fuMcribers, will be thankfully re
warded. Payment being flopped at the Banks, it can
be of no use to any person.
ibrary; JOHN GUEST & Co.
Fourth- No. 20, South Secend-flreet.
Ireet— All persons are forwarned against purchasing the
said Note, Febiuary 18. $
Lisbon Wine.
soPipe6of Li&on Wine, landing at Mtflrs. Sum
mer! & Brown's wharf» between Arch and Race ftrcets,
from Ibip Neptune, Capt. Jeffries, from Lisbon. in
Pipes, Hogiheads and Quarter Caiks, for fair by
, ' PETER BLIGHT.
February 18. s7*
Bourdeaux Brandy, in Pipes,
OLD CUret, m calk*
~l>ittoin o» quality
Lisbon Wine i« pip*
Fourth Holland Gin
New-England Hum in hogfiieadsapd tiercel
Raffins in kegs
Best Boston Beef and Pork
Halifax Salmon in baircls
Ruflia Sail Duck.
' | Ravens Duck
' A tew Feather Beds
: Bir"£ c "t{ •»'«"»■ <»*«*
Spermacaeti Candles
Mould and dipt Tallow ditto
A few barrels Tanners Oil, and
A small invoice of India Goods,
Fof Sale by
JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co
ALSO,
Just received from Marfeillej. a fnaall invoice of Silks, Silk
Stockings, an allbrtmcnt of Perfumery, and'a few cases of
the bell Olive Oil.
February 15 V ot
M*s. G RATTA N
Refpeflfully informs her friends, and the public in
general, that on Tuesday the irthday of January,
. (he proposes opening, at No. 39, North Sixtb-
I street,
A Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
Book Muflin®, from 6/3 to lifll per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to 9/8 per yard
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to lofio per yard
Fine Coffaes
TambourM Book Muslins, from 13/9 to 21/ per yard
" India Muslin, from JLI/$ to Isf per yard
Sheeting Muslin
vr jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 to 6/ per hdkf.
Book muslin Handkerchiefs from 5/3 to iq/*6 per hdkf.
Muslin colored andborderd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchiefs
Tambeur'd Cravats from iq/"8 to li/l I
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/3 to 16/3 per yard
ie Table Cloths
ie Huckabuck Towelling
Women's from to 13f per paif
y Dimity from 5/10 to 6/ii
Men's Silk Hose
Taxnbour'd muslin Handkorchiefs from 11/ ii to-iyfl
* Irirti linens for Geritlerr en's Shirts, from jfs to 2/7
> And a variety of other articles.
)r N. B. Orders received lor all kinds of ready madt
ie Linen, Gentle„ n's Shrrts, ruffled or plain, Crarats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, &c. &c.
Hoilfhold Linen, &c. &c.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 3 1-2 dollars, s
A full ruffled drtto, 4 dollars.
A plain fliirt, made and mark'd, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled «itto 6 aollars.
A plain fliii i, made and marked, 5 1-2 dollars*
1( j A full ruffied ditto 7 dollars.
A plain (hirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
ir A full ruffled ditto 7 1-2.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 j-2 dollars.
et A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
. . Linen included.
"" This tyay is Publifbed,
c * By Meflrs. W. Cobbett iff John Ormrod,
£ BURKE's LETTERS
Dr On the propol'als of nsakiag PEACE with the
REGICIDE DIRECTORY
e- OF
y- FRANCE.
r- Feb. ai. ijt
' RICE '
180 Tierces Rice for Sale by
Samuel Breck, Jun,
Ne. 89 South Third Street
LIKEWISE,
15 or 20 Pockets COTTON, aris
A Quantity 1. H. SHJSRRY WINE,
50 Cases SWEET OIL, &e. &c.
February 11 tth&f6t
Notice to Calico Printers.
SHERIFFS SALE
Ik TJ V virtue of a Writ of Venditioni Exponas, to me di-
JD rested, will be exposed U> la 1 e at the dwelling-house
of William and Thomas Jorifans, in Christiana Hundred,
t. Newcsftls county, State of Delaware, on Wednesday, the
firft day of March next, at te« o'clock, a m, of said day,
"" the following defcribtd proptrty, confiding of, frame
buildings, fcveral h rge coppers, a valuable Callender, tl
e< so, a number of prints and a machine all in good order
a j {lores, household and kitchen furniture, two valuable cows
ana a quantity of feantlmg, being seized and taken in ex
ecutior. as the property of William and Thomas Jordans,
and will be fold for ca(h, by
ie WILLIAM STIDHAM, Seriff.
February *I, 1797
TO BE SOLD
By Public Vendue at the Merchants' Coffee-Houfe in
T Second-street, on Saturday tbe 4jth instant, at 7
I® o'clock in the evening,
'' A WELL finifhed three story brick house, three
JLx. fiery brick kitchen, and let of ground, situate
18 on the east fiie of Fourth-street, near Saffafras or Race
fireet, No. 47, north : containing in breadth on Fourth-
II street about 17 feet, and in depth 1 — feet. Sub
je<ft to a yearly ground-rent of 71. and clear of erery
ie other incumbrance. It is now let at 1501 per annum ;
j fold as the estate, and by the Executors of the last wIU
: and teftatnent of William Lehman, deceased. Th«
terms of payment will be made easy, and the condi
tious, publilhed at the time and place of sale, by
WILLIAM SHANNON, Audtioneer
February 21 s4t
Important Public Document.
jf THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
; And for Sale
f' At the Office of the Editor of the Gazette •£ the
n United States,
No 119 Chefnut-Sireet,
[PMC! ONI DOLLAR AND FIFTY 1 CtNTS]
A FEW COriEB OF THE
Receipts and Expenditures
OF THE UNITED STATES,
t. For the Year 1795, —
ie Being the J.atmt Period to which an acseout can be
he mads up. tebruary il )'-1
BRITISH HOUSE OF COMMONS.
Tburfday, December B.'
REPORT OF THE BUDGET.
Mr. Hobart brought up the report of the com
mittee of ways and means. The report was read a
firft time. When the resolutions were about to be
read a second time.
Mr. Fox rose. He said, that be should not now
enter into the detail of tliofe resolutions, hut (hould
reserve his remarks for a future opportunity. In
the mean time he would fay, that they were well
worth the attention of every member of the house
and of the community who had ever studied the bu
siness of finance. It would appear to every impar
tial mind that these statements were delusive, and
that and far greater efforts must be made to
put us in a situation to meet our difficulties. What
"he more particularly alluded to at present was, the
degiaded situation in which the house now stood
with refpeft to the Executive Power. They were
yesterday informed, for the firft time, that a sum of
1,20e,0001. had been sent into Germany by the
fervam of the Crown, against a positive law, and
not only without the aflent, but without the know
ledge of Parliament. That this was dene in con
tempt of law, and for the nfbre convenience of his
majesty's ministers, was of itfelf fuffieiently alarm
ing ; but it became infinitely more so, on regard
ing the mifchievotts principle which it furnifhed.
This (truck him at firft, but so powerfully on re
consideration, that lie regretted deeply his not dif
fering fiom the resolutions of yesterday. He now
haftenee-to -repair his fault, and he should deem him
felf ;a traitor to the constitution, if he agreed to
vote either a man or a (hilling, before that house
had solemnly pronounced on the condu& of mini
sters. They had frequently heard panegyrics on the
constitution from those who were employed in de
stroying its vital parts. But there was one point
of its excellence on which he thought that all par
ties must be agreed, and that if the question were
a/ked, whether the priviledge of granting pecunia
ry aids was vested in the Crown or in the people,
the answer must uniformly be, that it was veiled in
the latter, and exercised through their representa
tives.
If unforefeen exigencies had required a larger
supply than had been voted, and if ministers had
fairly come forward and stated the ciicumftance, it
was experimentally clear that they might hare reli
ed on the full confidence of Parliament. But in
this cafe they had been guilty of a direst breach of
the aonftitution. Enquiries had been made in the
last Parliament, whether any money had been sent
into Germany. The answer was in the negative ;
and it was coupled with an intimation, that if such
a fuceour was deemed necessary, they would imme
diately aflemble the Parliament. But what was
now the fa& ? They had disposed of the m»nev
not only without convening the Parliament, but
they had exported it without confultihg the Parli
ament, whilfi it <was aSually !—Why had
not the Mtnilter come to Parliament, and a(ked
their concurrence ? He would argue with him on
this head. He spoke the language of the constitu
tion. The .question between them was, whether
that constitution should be altered in its most mate
rial part ? whether the power of the purse (hould
reft with the executive power, or with the commons
of England ? and whether the Minister should be
allowed to eilablifh a precedent against the constitu
tion. ?
The manner in which this business had been
condufted was fufficient to add much to the suspi
cion. Large sums were advanced, it appeared be
fore the meeting of Parliament ; but these were
fludioufly concealed. Other payments had been
made so lately as the month of November 1796
All this was done as if with an intent to (hew thit
the power resided in the fervaats of the crown.
When the minister at length came forward, there
was certainly nothing apologetic in his manner: he
appeared to set his own judgment above that of
Parliament, and talked of the danger of publicity
in matters of this nature. To atgue the firft at
these points would be to rec»r to the old question;
whether an abfoluie was preferable to a free go- ]
vernment ? With refpeft to the danger of publici
ty, if that were admitted, it would open a door to
every species of fraud, which may be committed
•n the most falfe and (lighted pretences. The
Parlisment was not to judge either of the propriety
of granting a pecuniary foccour, or of
to be iflued ; it was held fufficient for th m to be
informed of the tranfaitipß at the instant when the
money was to be paid 1
This was the firft time, he proceeded to ebferve,
• that the budget had been opened before the aimy
cxtraordinaries had been voted. This could not be
attributed to any particularity as to the time ; for
it was observable, that last year the budget had been
open precisely on the fame day, and yet the army
cxtraordinaries had been previously voted. These
extraordinaries, which covered a part of this tranf
aflion, had been brought in but yesterday. The
affair was put in a peculiar train, in order to eftab
-li(h the precedent, left it should be thought that
Parliament by any conftruflion or convenience,
had contributed to fanSien the measure.
There were other circumstances in the proceed
ings of yesterday not less Angular in their nature.
The house was then, for the firft time, informed
that there was a war with Spain, tho' the intima
tion had been publicly given by the lord lieutenant
of Ireland, notice for granting letters of
marque and reprisal had appeared in the Gazette,
and though every newspaper was full of the lioftili
ties.—lt was undoubtedly the prerogative of the
crown to make war ; but without studying to a(k
how far this tardy csmmunieation was to be con
lidered as gracious, he must return, and re-demand
why the king's fervantshad usurped the fun&ions
of parliament > The extraordinaries were granted
®nly upon estimated Jevices ; the mo.iey was divert
ed from those services, and how was it to be got
back? Theferviceshad been voted, and the house
were now compulforily called upon not to leave
them unprovided. The vote of credit was limited,
ic order to (hew that parliament conGdered thenj N
felves as the only judges, not only whether the mo.
nev Oiculd Le advanced, but to what intent i' should
be applied. Then what power had the minister
for these ifPif.i ?To A- last parliame«t, obfeq>ito«»
as it had been, and whatever evil it had committe ,
he had not dared to apply. The obvious mifchiets
to be feared from fending such a quantity of specie
abroad would have probably prevented them from
granting the necessary powers. What figure, then,
would the present parliament cut in hiitory, if it
had began its career by overlooking fu fatal a prece
dent ? It was probable that the minister may at
length tardily'come forward to ask their fanftion.
But would they, « the mean time, fit quietly un
der such an insult to them and to the constitution ?
For his own part, he felt the latter so ttrongly, that
he should eppole the second reading of the , rcfolu
tions, for the purpose of postponing the supply. If
He waifupported in this measure, he should pledge
himfelf immediately to bring forward s motion,
charging the minister with " a high crime and mis
demeanor."—But if the house did not declaretheir
marked abhorrence—if they thould unexpe&edly
convive at fucb a tranfaftion, he looked with confi
dence to the spirit orthe people, who could not fail
to express their empkatical disapprobation of such a
business. The speech of the minister yesterday
was, in fa£t, a libel on the constitution. . Nothing
in the writi:*gsof Paine had so direct a tendency to
bring it into contempt. If he was fitting on hts trial
for that speech, as a juiyman, he would certainly
return a verdict of " guilty" and fay, that the
malut animus to deftrey the constitution was evi
dent. Many ofits bleffiiig, had been taken away,
but we should therefore be the more studious to pre
serve the remainder. The adts which prevented
Englishmen from meeting had (truck at vital parts.
If the power of pecuniary aid was now to be taken
from the commons, he must fry that little more was
left, and that, after all our losses of blood andtreaf
ure, this formed an addition almost incalculable to
our mifcrie,. He should vote, for the reasons which
he had Rated, again!! the second reading of the refo
lutious.
Mr. Pitt said, that if he were not aware how far
the right honorable gentleman, who had just fat
down, was habituated to the ufeof inflammatory ex
prefiions—if this had been the firft time of his
founding the alarm that'the constitution was in
danger, he should have felt some imprcilioa of sur
prize. But he recollefted that that was-not the
firft time that the gentleman made a solemn appeal
from that house to the people : and that it was not
the firft, second, or third time that he had piofefTed
to ttand " behind the lilt dyke ef the constitution."
Th« meafurcs to which, in his opinion, and in that
of the house, the country had owed its fafaty, were
denounced from the fame quarter, as tending to na
tional ruin!—lt was not many months since the
honorable gentleman had represented those laws as
subversive of the constitution, which had happily
fruftrated the design, of its most inveterate and
dangerous enemies. Under those laws he had pro
reffed that he could not sleep for an hour; and yet
he very lately given a two months notice of a
motion for their repeal.
It was Angularly curious to observe the new lights
which had broken in on the mind of that right hon.
gentleman. I» his (Mr. Pitt's) speech of yester
day, which was allowed to profefs, at least, the
recommendations of opennefa and candor, there was
nothing which appeared in the firft instance to pro
duce the impression which had lately appeared
There was nothing to disturb the farenity, or im
c*'cu'at ' on> °f an honorable gentleman
(Mr. Grey) whose mind was particularly liable to
irritation. The ho»orable gentlemen were placid
even after the constitution had received its death
wound, and had aftually fuffered the resolution. to
pass by an unanimous vote ; but now, what was
the tendency of the speech which they had just
heard ? It want not to punift the minister,, if they
were culpable, but to revenge their fins upan the
country. The resolutions, it was to be observed,
did not go to bind the house to fanflien any s up .
plies forwarded to the emperor, either as to their
principle or their extent; the motion was therefore
calculated to inform the enemy, when they were just
informed of the ÜBa nrmity and zeal of the country,
that the house of commons had intercepted ttrr fup
jdtes, and that they were determined to weaken the
war or to fruftrate the ncgociation.
h O nnr»J 0r '"'l P *"' W ° Uld fu PP iical « the right
cr-Z toex P cdil<; bis charge of high
enmei and rmfdemeanors, if h« would only not con
t coumr y - a to
their werecenfuublc, why should
their fin, be vvfited on ,he nation ? The geneial
power of the purse w JS ve S td in the Britjfh , om
m ° v °' ® U ' ' he P rlrw 'ple hid never before been
nakedly laid down without anyxxception or quali
fterl'Tn c L:T f ° u » d^o o d, that mini
r rLi /r emer g e "cy, were to exercise a
responsible difcretian. This mnft eve, be admit ed
from the necessity of the cafe Y,»
tions, thus uniformly admitted, and even when'the
right honorable g.ntleman had himfelf a share ir
the government wer e now quoted a. tending
ftroy the very essence of the eonlliiution. If ,h e
language of the right honorable C e„.leman, ■„ 2
be fincere WM he could not believ e it to
th?a,! h 7n ferr^ t0 the meCr^ofhi e majesty, on
k" I, r°n / ' 795, andto 'he vote of credit
to ad iDt* f W h ", tol " ablehi » majesty's miniftcrs
to adopt fuel, measure, as the exigency of circum
(lances may requne » I'he confidence thus com
municated, was, in hi, opinion, a full juftffiration
of mimffers for whatever they had done. If thev
had rcfufed the facceurr required by Auftiia, and
thereby prevented the empercr fr em rescuing his
fhTTh"" 8 ' n ° th "'« " rtaiHl y ™uld be mo.e heavy
" fc : r efponfib\lity. The vote of credit, to
h,s "'ajefty', nunifters to meet with Lnv
, a T unttd t0 M°o>oool. The aid,
Which they lad deemed themfelve, authorised tJ
200 LI? H emper °'' P affcd b « "ttle beyond
l,»Oo,o«ol. He, r.s principal in this affair
was ready to avow hi, responsibility. If he and his
coadjutor, were puoifhable, he thould rather be
on the grounds 'which he h.d adopted,
than ai q, lt cd on the proof of an opposite conduft!
If Ihc proceeding has t.e Cn less juft,fied by precedent
in his opinion it Wd hive Seen more merit iriou*.
The question now before the house was, whethci
it was prepared to surrender to France, by a com
pliance with the motion of the right honorable gen
tleman, every thing on which the fafety of the
nation depended !
Mr. Fox said a few words in explanation.—
What he had said of the extraordiuanes was, that
if they were refufed, some branch of the public
service must be starved. This made it the more
dangerous and blameable to resort to them, for the
purpose of covering a different expenditure.
Sir W. Pulteney said, that the measure of the
minister, which was now questioned, appeared to
him, in the firft instance, at criminal and uncondi
tional. He had not slept on the business ;he had
on the preceding night communicated his opinion
to his friends around him. If Mr. Fox had spoken
too strongly on other occasion,, that wa, no reason
why he should not be attended to when there ap
peared a real danger. The confutation »f the
country appeared to him to depend on this question
Whether the minister ftiould be allowed to fur
nifh latge pecuniary aids without the consent of
parliament.'—The defence set up on this occasion
he thought extremely weak. The expenditure
could not be covered by the vote of extraordinaries,
which' included only the charges which had been
previously set down in tjie estimate. It could not
be fan£tioned by a vote of credit, for no minister
had ever dared to convert any part of a vote of cre
dit to a foreign subsidy. A, to the obfeivations
on the flopping the supplies, this was the usual
shelter of every minister. He did not cont-ur in the
motion made by Mr. Fox ; but if this pica was
granted in its extent to Mr. Pitt, there was an end
to the power and interference of parliament. He
would freely admit, that, in cafe of a new emergen
cy, minister, were entitled to a responsible difcretion-.
He could not but remark, that the minister had
made no remark to the strongest part of the allega
tion—that this money wa, remitted whillt parlia
ment was fitting, and without making to them the
fmalltft communication. This furnifhed, in his
opinion, a most deftru&ive precedent, and the con
duct of the minister, on the whole, demanded the
strongest cenlnrc of parliament. He had approved
of his interference in the affairs of Holland in the
year nB7 ; but what made the difference was ; tbat
at that time the parliament was not fitting. With
refpedt to the danger of publicity, he drew a con
trary inference from tbat of the minister. France
was encouraged, when fha learned that we had rc
fufed supplies to Austria. In this instance the
notoriety of the tranfaiftion must have difcooraged
the enemy in proportion as it tended to Simulate
our ally. The difference of exchange was in this
view but a paltry consideration. He saw much to
blame in the encreafe of the navy debt, and could
pointfut many existing abuses ; but in his opinion
the gross infringement on the constitution should be
the prime objeft of regard and of enquiry.
Mr. Grey said, that after the very able and con
ftitutional speech of the honorable b-ronet, whose
experience and independence gave weight and au
thority to every exercise of his discernment, he
would not long detain the house from doing its du
ty upon the question. "But the right honorable
gentleman would perceive, from the questions put
to him in the last parliament, that some suspicion
of his present conduit then existed in the minds of
his opponents. He (Mr. Grey) had then aflced
him whether fee intended to fend money to the em
peror ; to which no pofitivc answer had been given.
If the minister eould thus dare to iuvade one of
cfTetitinl ar.d few remaining pair, of the confti-ution,
it was time to save those parts, by declaring him
guilty of a high crime and misdemeanor. His hon
orable fiiend, he hoped, would io morrow make a
motion to that effe6t ; and if Mr. Fox did not, he
(Mr. Gicy) gave notice that he would. Such a
declaration, he hoped, would prevent the mifchief
of the present offence, and the attempting of auy
similar one, in future. The minister h rt d upbraided
his opponents with having frequently declared that
the queltion under difcuffian formed the last dyke of
the constitution. It was true that they had often
proclaimed iheir apprehensions, from violence at
one time, from fraud and treachery at another ;
and the house were now ta f v -el the conftquence of
the servility of their predeceffoi,, is the last parlia.
ment. If, for thi, offence, they did not now
bring the minister to trial and puniftiment, there
was nothing left even of the form of a constitution.
Ihe indignation of the house wa, already excited
by the firft disclosure of this offence ; but what
would it be when they should learp that which
he had now discovered from the papeon the
table, that, at the very time when the minister
was talking of his openness under all difficulties,
and under the exccfs of commercial inconvenien
cies, at the very time, parliament being then
fitting, he had given to the emperor the greatest
pan of the sum, which, till within these few
ays, the house did not know to have been ex
pended at all. The last parliament fat till June.
It appeared, from the papers on the table, that
before thst
1,200,0001. had bet« sent to the Emperor ; in
July 77,e001. wa, sent ; and in September, Ofto
an? November, 900,000! so that, except
77.0001. the whole of this sum, of with
out the consent of Parliament, had dually been
lo miiapphed dtiring the fitting of Parliament. It
was even now a d.ubt with him, whether, "If he had
not Kcffed for those army extraordinaries, which
were so lately la.d upon the table, the house would
ft 'I T Cd #f thiS m '^ a Ppli ca tien ; and
han th ! f -° 7' by ° ,her Wpofition
thar that of deceive, how the navy
debt which was always ,-
been made up so early, while
nauet, which were always hitherto amongTrW
early papens, should have thi, year been so long
1 delayed. The argument of the honorable gentle
man, that exaft account, of expenditure Were not
1 required by the constitution, bccaufe extraordina
ry, were permitted, was founded upon the exceo
i tj.n rather than the rule. If this wa, granted, no
: h«ng remained to be withheld. Extraordinaries,
1 tho a L lwa ?' evils > »:re sometimes necoflary ; but
was the allowance for evils to be argued as
beneficia* rule ? How loudly had the right hon.
gentleman blmf-lf, when a reformer » V ' j
liberty, and an ctunomift, invriohet) L,; n ft
lerante «f cxtraordinaries > How r „ fij ." r t °'
he put into the m»uth of his Buj e ft T "' y '' a<l
datioH to that house to guaid airat'nft .recolmmen
with refpedl to the vote of credi g U a H ,1 ' N
I. ptrr p «ai»e rfS?"ittS' r''
iu the view of Parliament. Yet of tl '
.ture, which was pretended to be e *penoi_
vote »f credit, ho less than 150,0001 «,« f
Col. Craufuriin December 17«r. r ®
was disposed of in December i 7Q 'r un l,o { o0 ° 1 *
thorityof a vote of credit for JZ' V icT„f'7
But the honorable gentleman had affefted to • n'r"
himielf by laying, that though .J,aoo,®col J ma'de
a conspicuous item ,n army extraordinarics, it w„
all within the limits of the vote ef credit ,
to which argument, the whole vote of credit 'tf ' "
have heon applied to the use of the Emperor Mr 9
Grey hoped that nothing further w S3 neceffarv »
win the attention of the house to thi. A
breach of the constitution. No attack
so dircft .. th.s upon every thing that could re"
der the life of man dear to h.m, liberty and th( . fe .
eunty of property. It might be said, that durin e
a moment of negoc.ation, miniftcrs were not to be
fettered by that house. But would it injure u S in
the eyes of Eiir«pc, or humble u. in those of Fiance "
to shew an House of Common, jealous of its own
rights, and therefore likely to be lon* revered, and
long cheriftied by the country—Now that the
French were admitted by the MinifUr to be capabl
"of the relations of peace and amity, and te have
"fnorhd away the fumes „f the indigejied lUd of
their Sovereignit might be especially ufeful to
exhibit the proud fpeftacle of a free people ne.-oci
atmg with a free people, osifelves as jealous of our
rights as they can be of their's. The delay of one
day could not injure the neoociation ; and that the
present qucftion might be difciiffed before the f«p.
plies were granted, h« would move an amendment
for inserting in the refolmion ;nH«J a f,l,. .— r j
now" that of " to morrow," on which d-y \},\z
house would also be moved to declare, that thfi
Chancellor of the Exchequer, in difpoiinp of the
public money without the consent of parliament,
had been guilty of a high crime and misdemeanor.
£To be concluded in our next.]
A GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President des Ltats Unis.
Le at Fevrier, 1797, l'Anniverfaira de fa Nai fiance.
ILLUSTRc IVASHINGTON, qui dujug Britunntque^
Et de tous festyrsns drfiyrai* Amerique ;
Toi dont le bras s'armu pour *fa j,'elicit*\
E$ dela pr'ts ton vol a Vimtnortalite ;
Cefi toi qu en ce heau jour ft dfgned* memoir*,
*Je ehante, et dont jar.nonce a L'lfh'weri la gloire»
Projond Jans le Con/eil, firme dans le danger,
Au hicn. de ton pays tu fsus tout diriger;
Et tel que ee Romain, au cri de tapairie,
On ie vit de tes champt quitter Vketireuft vie y
Et des p f us hauts bona curs, acquis a tes exploits t
On te voit retourner a tes paiftbles hois.
Pour la Pojierite quel example fuhlime !
0 mortel virtbeux / 0 guerrie - magnanime'J
Dans ta douce ritvaite, ou te fuivent mes veux t « *1
Je demande du del pour toi des jours heureux ;•»
Qu a Vombre des lauriers qu out cue: His tes vjillees t
II eomhle de fes dons tes derniercs so 'trees•
-
James Brown,
-dt No. 119 South SecondJlreet,
HAS just received per the Peggy, capt. Hardy,
from Amsterdam, a small invoice of D IT T C H
G O O D S, confining of
Ticklenburgt
Flaxen linen Oxnaborgs
Coffee-Millt, No. o to 4
knives <
Scythes 10 hands long—and
Glass tumblers aflorted
Which he will f«ll oa go»dterm» by the-package.
Also 011 hand,
A few Quarter-calks Malaga WINE, and
500 Gallons Spirits Turpeutine.
February 23 ■. '■ L .^
WIOMING LANDS.
CCS" THE Pennfylvasia claimants of Lands, held
by titles which commenced b.'fore the decree of
Trfnton in December' 1782, are requested to
meet at M'Shane's Tavern, in Third Street, on
Friday Evening, February 24th, at 6 o'clock, oa
urgent bulinefs.
February 2 *lt
Lately Imported^
AND now opening for Sale, by the Box or finglt ream,
by B. DAVIES, at No. 68 Market-ftrcet, anaffort
ment of ENGLISH PAPER,
eONSISTINC OF—"
Printing Paper, of an excellent quality, both Medi
um and Demy
Writing D/tto, of various lizes and qualities, as •
Imperial Thick and thin folio"A c(U g t
Super-Rojal C for
Royal Foolscap, common (offices.
Medium, common Ditto wove J
Ditto wove for drawing Pott t .
Demy, common Thick ancl thin
—
pemy foo'ie marble paper
A general assortment of the neatest Sta
tionary \Va:e, a variety of maps, charts .ind plans, and
a valuable collection ot BOOKS iu the Knglifc, Frtnch,
Greek and Latin languages. As he intends to decline the
Book-trade, he proposes to dispose of his f.ick of Books
on hand at redui* iprices, for calh or approved notes: ca
talogues of the books may be had at the fame place.
February »3 th3cfj(W
This day it publifhcd,
By Wiliam Cobbet, in three hirge oftavo volumes,
A Defence of the Constitutions of Govern
ment of the United States of America,
Again# rhe attack of M. Turgot, in his letter t°
Price, dated the twenty second day of March, 17 7*»
By JOHN ADAMS, LL. D.
Prefidcnt of the United States. .
Embellilliei with a striking LikeSlfs of the author,
engraved by Smither —from au original po»tr ai
by F«(biuary 13—§3 W
For Charleston and Savannah,
rf- THE SCifOONia
Oliver y»nk':us,M a f tr '
WILL take freight on moderate term», and he r«S' T ®
take in in a few days Apply to -
' JOSEPH AN THON* s c '
rektuuy 23 'AND
Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
PHILADELPHIA, February 13.
We are happy to find that a considerable number
of our unfortunate fellow-citizens rutu-ned lately
from Algiers, have provided -employment for th«m
felves, and Shipped on board different outward bound
veflels. Four mariners failed in the £hip John, a
few days since, for Amsterdam uin this number,
was a poor fellow, who had been in slavery amongst
the Barbarians, for more than 12 yeais.
Yesterday was the anniversary of the birth day
of the President of the United States, when heen
tted the 65th year of hit age. The day was ah
ferved with utiufual demonstrations of feftivity and
rejoicing. The dawn was ushered in by the bring
a federal salute of frxteen cannon and the ringing of
l, e l! 8 —the Senate as Ae United States, molt of the
members of the federal house of reprefentatives—
the governor and both branchesiof the legislature
of this commonwealth in a body escorted by seve
ral uniform military companies, congratulated him
on the occasion. The officers of the militia of the
city and county met at eleven o'clock at the Stare
house, and marched from thence to the house of the
President, to whom they presented an address—they
then returned to the State House and accompanied
the society of the Cincinnati in their visit to the
President, who also presented an address. The Pre
fident received also the congratulations of foreign
public charaftersj and of a Numerous concourse of
citizens, ladies and gentlemen. At 12 o'clock ano
ther federal salute was fired—in the evening there
was a ball and supper, given on the occasion by the
City Dancing Affemlaly, at Rickctt's Amphithea
tre, wh»cb-for fplendo"-, taste and elegance, has not
been equalled in the United State*.
Mr. Fenno,
Yesterday the house of representatives of this
slate being in committee of the whole house on the
bill to authorize the governor t» offer to cc/ngrefs
for the purposes therein mentioned, the house in
tended sot the accommodation of the President of
the United States, Mr. Logan in the Chair, a mo
tion yvas made by Mr. Latimer, seconded by Mi.
Marshall, for the committee to rife, report progress
and ask leave to fit again. This motion was inten
ded as preparatory to a motion for the house to ad
journ, for the purpose of giving an opportunity to
such of the members as chose to pay their refpefts
to tlfe President of the United States on the anni
versary of his birth' day. The queltion being put
by the chairman thirty-two rose infavrjr of the mo
tien, but he declared the number to be only twenty
fix, and the lyirabei rising in opposition, being
-twenty eight, the chairman declared the motion to
be loft; but Mr. J. Shoemaker and Mr. Wain ri
sing in their places, declared that they had counted
the numbers, and that there had thirty-two riftn in
favor of flic motion, on wKicTi the roll was caiied,
and it appeared that there was thirty-four in favor
of the motion, apd only twenty-nine agaisfl it.
Such conduft needs no coVnment, it (hews itfeif in
its true colours. a sfectatoh.
Senate of the United States, February 21.
The answer to the Address of the Vice Pefident
ofthe United States on his relirirfg the Senate,
was yesterday, agreed to as follows.
Sir, _ „
The Senate of the United States would be un
just to their own feelings, and deficient in the per
formance of a duty their relation to the government
of their Country imposes, Should they fail to ex
press their regard for your person, and their ref
peft for your chara&et", in answer to the address
you presented to them, 011 your leaving a Ration
which you have so long and so honorably filled, as
their President.
The motives you have been plea fed to disclose
which induced you not to withdraw from the pub
lic feivice, at a time when your experience, talents
and virtues were peculiarly defneable, are as hono
rable so» youtfelf, as from our confidence in you,
Sir, we trwft the refalt will be beneficial to our be
loved country.
When you retired fiom your dignified feat in
this House, and took your leave of the members of
the Senate, we felt all thole emotions ol gratitude
and affection, which our knowledge and experi
ence of your abilities and undeviating impartiality
ought to inspire ; and we (honld with painful reluc
tance endure the separation, but for the corifoling
reflexion, that the fame qualities which have ren
dered you nfcful, as the President of this branch of
the Legislature, will enable you to beftill more so,
in the exalted to which you have been called.
From you, Sir, in whom your country have for
a long period, placed a steady confidence, which has
r.ever bwn betrayed or forfeited, and to whom 1 hey
have on so nrany oecaGons eni.rufted the care of their
dearest interests, whieh have never been abufad.—
From you who holding the fecend situation under
the Coriftitution of the United Siates, have lived
in uninterrupted harmony with him who has held
the firft.—
From you w« receive with much fatisfaAion the
declaration which" you are pteafed to make of the
opinion you entertain of the character of the pre
sent fenaters, and of that of those citizens who
kave oeen heretofore senators. This declaration,
were other motives wanting, would afford them an
incentive to a virtuous perseverance, in that line of
condufl which has been honoied with your appro
bation.
In your future course, we entertain no doubt,
that your official condufl, will be measured by the
constitution, and dire&ed to the public good, you
have therefore aright to entartain a confident reli-.
*nce, that you will be supported, as well by t he peo
ple at laige as by their constituted authorities.
We cordially reciprocate the wifhrs which yon
express for our honor, health and bappinefs, we
jeiu with yours, our fervent prayers for the continu
ation of the virtue* aud liberties ef eur fellow citi
- '• . ' '"I
reus : for the pubtfo ptofperity and peace ; »t)d for
you we implore the bell reward of virtuous deeds,
the grateful approbation of your constituents, and
the smiles of heaven.
STOCKS.
Six per Cent. - ... - tjf
Three per Cent. - - - - * * 13 /
per Cent. ------- --
5i per Cent. ----- - - -
Deferred Six pfcr Cent. * Hf
BANK United States, ... IJ per ct
—r— Psnnfylvania, - - - - i! do.
. North \merica, - - - 45 do.
Insurance Omp. N. A. fharci, - 3° per ct.
Pennfylv. 3 p«r ct. adv.
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 day», par
—«— at 60 days, 61 l-»
at go days, 57 1-2
Amftsrdam, 60 days, per guilder. 4®
Extraft of a lettter, dated Danville, Kentucky,
January.JO.
" Our Peace with the Interns is likely to be of
ftlurt. duration. The Indiana and White People
have already been killing one another. The dispute
firft began by the Indians plundering three waggons
loaded, palling from Knoxville to Cumljcrland.—
Since that tinac, two men living in Powell's Vale,
murdered two Indians who were hunting on the
Wilderness road, and plundered their camp. This
day we hear the Indians have killed Colonel Daniel
Boone, his son, and son-iB-law, when out viewing
lands on Red River. This latter report wants con
firmation, though it comes pretty direst."
BOSTON, February 14.
Mr. Lee, at Salem, from Martinique in 20 days,
was prefeht at the landing of General Abercrom
bie—he came ottt in the Arethufa frigate—with
out other force, or any troops. Mr. L. heard
nothing of the expedition againlt the Spaniih lhips
at Trinidad. Provisions were lo**.
■ NEW-YORK, February 21.
NEW YORK LEGISLATURE.
The permanent feat bill has parted the Alfembly,
and had a fecowd reading in the Seoate—its title
has been altered to read, an adl for erefting and cf
tablifhing certain public offices in the city of Al
bany, and for other purposes therein mentioned—
-10,000 dollars arc granted for carrying the bill into
effeft. The bill authorising the faleof certain pub- j
lie stocks, has also patted the Assembly—it contem
plates felling to the New-York bank, our 6 per cent,
and deferred stock. The bill appointing a comp
troller has been concurred in by the Aflkmbly with
amendments. Mr. Cooley's motion to rejeft the
hill was negatived, on a division 88 to 12. A bill
authorieing the treasurer to fubferibe to the Alba
ny bank—A bill to incorporate Jeremiah Van
Renflelner and others by the name of the Hamilton
manufacturing fsciety—A bill to incorporate the
New-York Insurance Company, and a bill sot erec
ting part of the counties of Ulster and Otfego in
to a new county, by the name of Delaware, are be
fore the Hettfit'of AsH mbly.
ALEXANDRIA, February 14.
The revolving year has once more bijought round
the anniversary of the birth of *ur beloved Presi
dent, which, as usual, was celebrated with every
mark'of refpeft. An elegarit ball and supper was
given at Mr. Gadfby's City-Tavern on Friday even
ing ; and on Saturday at I 2 o'clock, the Artillery
Company manifefted their high opinion of hia ex
alted character by 15 discharges of cannon, while
the people generally evinced an appreciated value
for the day which gave birth t« the " Political sa
viour of America. 1 '
Illustrious Chiif !
May'ft thou live happy, as thour't good and great;
While yet thou view'ft, with transport in thy eyes,
Thy darling land, in full orb'd glory rife ;
While no dark tyrant o'er Columbia frowns,
But glorious freedom every blessings crowns,
While raptar'd states in gratitude beitow
Their thanks, for blessings, which to thee they owe."
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA,
ARRIVED.
Ship Criterion, Johnlon, New York 5 days
Brig Columbia, M'Hcory, Ditto 3
Schooner Angelica, Howard, Havannah I $
1 Hedor, King, New York 5
CLEARED
Ship Enterprize, Norrij, Hamburgh
Brig Rofina, James, Baltimore
, Florida, Hore, Porto Rico
Sch'rOrion, Morey, Hifpaniola
Seaflowtr, Lannher, Portsmouth N.H.
Maria, Small, Leogaue
Juno, Marrett, Edenton N. C-
Extrs& of a letter from Hamburgh, December 6
Our river is frozen up, and we fear will be so for a long
time. The Wafhingion, Price, from Philadelphia, has not
yet arrived, but capiains R. M'Call, William Blair, Benjamin
Earl, and Priam Pease, are all arrived fafe.
1 Capt. Mitchell of the Beti'ey, from Cayenne, failed the
13 January, and left at that place the brig Maria, Whit
ney, of Providence; fehooners Virginia, Pierre, Philad.
Hercules, Craig, Baltimore ; and Orange, Graves, do.
Coming out, fpokt fchnoner Polly, Wsllis, from Sa
lem, under jury-masts, in
Jan. »?, 1.14, 36, long. 58, 19, spoke fehocner Gid
eon, Lunt, Norfolk to Barbados—all well.
Brig Jenny, Bolhby, ef New York, left Cayenne two
! days bef®re the Bctfey, for Jeremic.
' Captain M'lvsr late of the brig Georgia Packet, in
forms that on hi» paflage from Cape Francois to N. York
he spoke the brig Olive-Braneh, from St. Bartholomews
to Porrfmouth (N. H ) the captain of which informed
him that 15 fail of vcffcls had arrived at St. Bartholo
mews, after being blown off the coast : amongst the num
ber is the fliip Two Friends, Eggar, of this port
The brig" Aurora, Stevens; Sally, Hayes; and fch'r.
Ifabclla, Drifcoll; all of this port, were left at the Ha
vannah by captain Howard, of thefchooner Angelica.
Ship Golden Age, Earle, not yet condcmn«d.
Capt. Howard was boarded by a New Providence pri
vateer, who broke open a number of letters, and carried
off one addressed to the Spaniih miniftej.
fchooner Eagle, Dana, from this port, arrived at
• Cape Nicbola Vole on the 10th of January. Onherpaf
fage, was boarded by four Engliih men of war, and rreat
j ed with the greatest politeness.
NEW-YORK, February I®.—AimtveD,
I Sliiy Birmingham Packet, Miller, Amflcrdam, 57 days;
*
biig?.*r.rs, Eurflov.-, Savanr.ah, "i; Fa-ny Smith, TT'- ■
vannali, 17; Sally, Digby, Cspe Franeais; sloop Robert,
Ketchel, St. Catharines, Georgia.
Capt. Turner, arrived here do Sunday, from
Bartholomews, in the schooner Henry aad Gulia
vus, Capt. Hempftead, informs us, that he failat)
from Berbice bound !o Marigallante in the floep
Polly, of Derby, Connefticut, and was taken on
the 3d of Decen.ber by a French privateer and car
ried i*;o Guadaloupe, where his vessel and cargo
waere condemned.
-From the log-book of the brig Two Sifters, eapt
Sheller, from Cape Francois.
Sailed in compaHy with the Two Sifters, brigs,
Sally, Wilkinfon, for Baltimore ; Peggy, Wallace,
for do.
Lift of American vt-ff Is condemned at Port de Paix.
Ship A&ive, Whitehoufe, Portsmouth.
Btigs-*-Sufan and Polly, Abeel, New-York
Fanny, Gould; Kennebeck ; Georgia Packet, M'E
vers, Philadelphia ; Dispatch, Lunt, Portsmouth.
Schooners—Betsey, Brower, Wafhirigton, N.
Carolina ; Washington, Jones, Baltimore ; Dis
patch, Howland, New York ; Harriet, Schields,
Philadelphia ; Lark , Charleftow ; Hannah,
Blight, Alexandria. . '
Sl»op Hiram, Baldwin.
At Gonaives, snow Endeavor, Freeman, Bos
ton.
Lift of American (hips left at St. Übes, when
(hip Catherine, Starbuck, failed, Nov. 25th, 1796.
Ships—Charles, Perkins, Newburypoct ; Staf
ford, Batch, Portsmouth ; Randolph, Grenough,
do. Mercury, Howland, B®ltan, bound home.
Capt. Perkins informed, the (hip Washington of
Boston, Nordeli, was id Cadiz, November 9th, '96.
Dec. Bth, parted with the ship Lydia, Captain
Blunt of Portsmouth, in lat. 35, 40. long. 23, 00.
from St. Übes bound to Portfmoiith.
Jan. 30th, Captain Starbuck was boarded by two
Britilh men of war, in fight of the island of Ber
mudas, who supplied him with beef, See. and treat
ed him with great politeness.
BALTIMORE, Feb. 20.
Arrived on Saturday last, schooner Beaufort,
Capt. Little, 14 days from Cape Francois. Capt.
Little informs that the brig Patriot, Capt. Bishop
had been condemned vessel ancf cargo.
'Same day, schooner Carmelite, Capt. Johns, 14
3ays from Aux-Cayes. Capt. J. confirms the ac
count of all French privateers having order* from
the Cape administration, to capture every Ameri
can vejfel, bound to and from Aux-Cayes, it being
declared in a slate of infurredlion ; that produce
"was very plenty, and rising from the great number
of arrivals from ether parts of the island, and flour
plenty at various prices. Came inside the Capes
with a Danish (hip, bound to (his poet, and passe.d
a brig—names unknowi^
Yelterday arrived schooner Harriot, Captain At
kins, 14 days from Cape Francois. Capt. A. like
wise fays, the Patriot had bten condemned—but
throngh the intetceflion of Toufiant, was liberated.
The Speedwell of Alexandria, (round home, was
also condemned : file had beeu out 63 days, the
hands a long times on half allowance—and having
fattained much bore away for Cape Fran
cois, where the adminiltration, breaking through
eveiy tic of humanity, seized and condemned her.
Capt. A. deles not mention any other late cap
tures at that place, but faysthat privateers were
out froiji eveiy quarter of the island, cruifitig with
commissions for capturing Americans.
Military enrollments, both voluntary and com
pulsory, »r e going forward with great (pint in Ire
land, and gun boat! are in readiuefs 011 foinc of the
riv<rs.
ARRIVED.
Brig William, M'Kinnon, Annapolis
Fanny, Hopkins, facqnemel
Harriot, Atkinfon, Cape Francois
Schr. Sally, CouMelle, Petit Guave
Dispatch, Thempfon, L'Anceveau
Carmelite, Johns, AuxCayes
Beaufort, Little, Cape Francois
Sloop Polly, Wilson, New-York
The schooner Elizabeth of this port, Francis
Blackwell, mailer, with a full cargo of coffee and
cotton frona Gonaives, bound for Baltimore, was
loft on Cape Hattcras, the 3d inft. The mailer
and crew saved ; about 20,000 weight of coffee in
a damaged (late, and the greatest part of the cot
ton was got on (hore by the exertions of the crew
and some people from the land,, the cay after the
schooner (truck. t
Captain Campbell, of the brig Harriot, left at
Cape Francois, February 5. the following vessels:
(loop Huldab, Mills, (to fail next day) Baltimore
fchrs. Shepherdess, Geese, do. Lark, Turner, do.
lnduftry, Wefcott, do. brigs , Cunning
ham, do. Fanny & Jan(|rfjjludfon, do. and several
Philadelphia, New York and Bofloa veflels wait
ing for cargoes.
Thf brigs Peggy, Wallace, and 6al!y Wilkinfon
failed the day before capt. C- for Baltimore.
The flup , capt. Bull of New York ar
rived there on the 4th, from Moute Chrifti, where
(he had been sent in by a French privateer, and
was taken to the Cape for condemnation. She,
however had a very narrow escape from a Britifti
74, which «ndeavoured to cut het off from the har
bour. »
There was no French ship of war at the cape,
except a corvette } but there were four English 74's
conflantly crufing off, one of which, and a Bermu
dian privateer boarded capt. C. and treated him
pulitely. A lieutenant of the former informed him
that a few <hys before, they ohafed the Harmony,
French frigate into a small port to leeward, and
that (he had loft her maintopmaft. It was fiappo
fed that the embargo had been taken off at the
Cape on that acconnt, as it was expe&ed -to conti
nue till her return from the Chesapeake.
Captain Campbell fays a Biitifh brig, command
ed by a captain Perkins, had almost broke Hp the
nest of privateers infelling that latilude-j-having
funk one and captured a number—-among the latter
was the infamous Mar(ha!l, who had just recommen
ced his piracies. He was determined, he said, be
fote leaving the port, not to return, without at least
four Americans, and all, except from Baltimore, he
would treat like villains. The schooner ,
captain Maffey, from Part-de-Paix to Cape-Fran :
cot's, was boarded by tbe above caplain Perkins
who peimittedher to pass, not wilhltaniiing thr pro
perty an board was French, as there were fix or
eight American captains on b«ar<J, going to the
Cape, for redrefi.
The mentioned in on; paper of yesterday
to have been condemned at the Cape, was the fchr, l
Hopewell, captain Skinner, Two of her crew
ave arrived in the Harriot.
h ■ —'
By this day's Mails,
NEW-YORK, February 2 1.
From Amsterdam.
Last evening arrived the (hip Birmingham Pack,
et, captain Miller, ftom AmfFerdam—s7 days from
tbe la'rd. Captain Miller brings accounts from Am«
fterdam about the 15th ®f December: He ttates,
that at his departure no late intelligence was re
ceived from the armies on the continent-"—that the
profpefts of peace were considered as very unpro
mising—that he landed an English pilot at Dover,
on the 24th December, who informed him, he,
among others, had received orders to proceed to
Ruflia, to take charge of a fleet of men of war
bound from jhcnce to England—the death of the
empress was leported— prevailed in Hol
land ; and it was reported the ki:g of Prufiia had
evinced a disposition for interfering again in their
political concerns.
The French troops were almost entirely with,
drawn from Holland. At a late hour we received
some Leyden papers—they do not appear to con
tain any thing material. We (ball give,
some feleAioHS from them to-morrow.
Tranjiated for the Daily Advertiser,
LIBERTY. EQUALITY.
In the name of the French republic.
Extract fusm the register of the deliberations of the
commissioners delegated by the French govern*
meat to tbe windward islands.
Cape, 2ill Nivos, in the sth year
of the French rtpublic, one
indivi Able.
After reading the verbal proeefs of the capture
of the brig Susan and Polly of New-York, Abeel,
matter, captured on the jth of this mpnth, by the
French privateer La Fileufe, John Valet, matter,
ligned by the said captain.
Aftsr reading the proceeding# of the justice of
peace at Port de Pdix, about the said.prize,
The papers of the said brig, consisting of a re
gister, delivered at New-York on the 231! May
1794, a sea letter of the 2d December 1796, and
amanifeft of cargo of the 14th December 1796,
The affidavits of fcveral palfengers on board the
said brig,
A vast quantity of letters in the trench and
English languages, direfled to divers perlens in
the ports of the ifl nd of Jamaica, and in ports of
the island of St.* Domingo, which are in an
rebellion against their own goverußicilt, under fhg
proteftion of Great Britain,
Considering that from the papers abovementioncd,
it is unexceptionably prcved that the said brig
bound to Jamaica,'
That the resolution of the execu'ivr direftory of
the 14th Mefiidor last, orders that all the ihipe be*
longing to the republic and ihe privateers, are to
aft towards the Ametiean veflels in the fame man.
ner as tbey permit the Brittfti to aft towards their.,
That it is notorious that the agents of the Britilh
government, in the Weft-Indies, do not refp.tt r:y
neutral flag, whinh notoriety is ftrengthenert byafß*
davits taken and depofued at the secretary
office, z
That after the official notification of the said de-/
cree of the executive direftory, and after the cer.
tainty ot the condu& of the British in she Weft-
Indies, towards the neutral veftels, the comtpifTion
decreed on the 18th irflant, that all neutral veffcrU
going to or coming from firitifb ports (hall be good
prizes,
The commifljon has decreed and doth decree,
that the Safan and Polly of New-York, Abeel,
master, captured on the Jth instant, by the priva
teer La Fileufe, Jean Valet, matter, is a good
prize as well as her cargo, and (til belonging to her,
and that the whole (hail be soL for the benefit of
the captors, therefore all persons to whom the care
of the vefTcl and cargo is trusted (ball deliver them
up to the captor.
This decree (hall be aatified to tbe eaptaitf of tbe
said brig, and for tbe full execution hereof, the
captor fball proceed before whom it may be right.
Signed on the register,
Santhqnai, President.
Raimond, Cornmiffioner.
Pascal, Sec'y General.
A true copy,
Pascal, Secretary General of the Coromiifion.
BALTIMORE, Febtuary 21.
At an eleflion heldyeflerday at thi Court House, by
the eleSors of a Mayor and the second branch of
the City Council, the following gentlemen were
chosen :
James Calhoun, Mayor. Second Branch. Willi,
am Goodwin, Nicholas Rogers, John Merryman,
Henry Nicols, Rdbert Gilmore, David Stewart,
Edward Johnson, jun. and Job Smith.
At eleßions heldyeflerday in the refpeSive wards, for
members of the firfl branch of the City Council, the
following gentlemen were eleSed ;
First Ward. James Carey, Ephraim Robin*
son. Second Ward. George Buchanan, Samuel
Owings. Third Ward. JefTe Hollingfworth,
James M'Cammon. Fourth Ward. Hercule*
Courtenay, David M'Mechen. Fifth Ward;
Thomas Hollingfworth, Adam Fonerd.en. Sixth
Ward. James A. Buchanan, Peter Fick. Se
venth Wa-d. James Edwaids, Frederick Shaffer,
Eighth Ward. Joseph Biays, William Trimble.
A Black Boy.
TO BE SOLD, the time of a fmarr, a&ivc Black Boy,
who has about fixtetn years to fcrvc. Enquire at No,
IJI Cheinut street. February 43 » §
WANTED, ~
Pennsylvania bank Shares,
For which Gajh, or approved Notes at 60 days, wify
be given, at the option of the Seller.
February jo—s Apply at this officp.Will be Sold, by Public Vendue,
On the gth of March next,
APLAVT * T I 0 N,
IN Ridley towfiP.iip, Delaware county, Hate of Penn- J
fylvania, eleven mile* from Philadelphia, and one from u
the great road leading thence to Chester ; containing one si
hnnrired and twenty-three acres, twenty-three of which si
are woodland, and eighteen meadow. On the prcmiies J
there ate, a dwelling-houle, barn, and other out-houfes, d
in good repair ; a good fpringof water close to the house, a
and a fine ftrcum of water runs through the premise*; hy £
which past of the meadow is watered, &c.
also,
On the fame day, the stock on the said farm ; confifl- a
ing of hurfes, cows, sheep* hogs, &r. A cart, plough, I
1 irrow, and other farming ute n fi!s; also a large copper I
fti l, with the houfehoki and kitchen furniture, among I
wLich are beds and bedding, an eight day clock, an<J ma- S
ny other articles too tedious to mention.
Thefale to b«gjn at ten o'clock in the forenoon, where T
the conditions will be made knows, and attendance given m
on the premiles, by CURTIS LEWIS. r
RidUjr, February 13 14 —ttW tM 9
For Sale, t
By George Defchamps, No. 91, j
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half ban-els *
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Srr.caked Herring'in kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or Gngle one
Dry C#dfi(h, from one to fifty kentals
Fine and cearle Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the stone t
and ground, for manure and ftucco-woik f
December i tthfcf t
FOR SALE, |
At "Whitesides's TEA-Warehouse, j
No. 99, North Second Street. ' t
Imperial rHyfon Skin. i
Hyfoa, C Frefli Teas. < Souchong, t
Young Hyson, J\ C Bohea I
I>ec. 9. 3tawjni. f
EP H RAIM CLARK, l r
CLOCK WATCIi MAKER, c
TTATH joft rec«ived by the Fame, from • London, c
si and Alexander, Hamilton, from Liverpool, a
large supply of
Gold, Gilt, and Silver Watches ;
Capt and Jewel'd, capt and seconds ditto ; spring Clocks,
clock movements, eight day and 30 hour brass, forged- '
•work, and llit pinions; clock and watch springs ; clock
bells and chima ditto ; gold, gilt and silver pendants: as
well as other tools, files and materials, too tedious to
mention.
Ladies' Steel & Gilt Chains, 1
. With or without hoeks; seals, keys and trinkets.
February 17 tthdtf tf 1
To the Benevolent. ;
THE Subscriber having rented that well known tav- j
ern house, on Silver Springs, Cumberland county, (
on the great road leading from Philadelphia to Fort Pitt,
wbieh he had completely furnifhed for the accommodation j
of travellers, but which unfortunately, by accident caught
fire about iz o'clock in the morning, the 3d of Novem- ■
ber last, and in the space of one hour was totally confujn- ,
«d with all the furniture, wearing apparel, stores of li
quors, &c. to a very large amount, attended with the me
lancholy loss of a daughter about twelve years of age,
who only survived a few hours after the fire ; his wife al
difabled ; and others of his family much hurt ; he is
now reduced to an unhappy and destitute fitua ion—he
therefore begs leave to solicit some relief from a generous
public. The following gentlemen are pleased to undertake
the trouble to solicit and receive fubferiptiona for his be
nefit : viz. Samuel Richardet, Merchants' Coffee-Houfe ;
James Thompson, Indian Queen; George Irwin, Cross
Keys, in Fourth-street, and John Dunwoody, Spread £a
jle, High-street. DAVID BRIGGS.
Philadelphia, February 14 tth&ftMj
+4t The other Printers are reqaeflcd to publish the above.
FOR SALE,
A very Valuable Estate,
CALLED TIVITT£ NHA M, situate in the
townlhip of Upper Derby, and county ©f Delaware,
7 1-2 miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile; from the
new Weflern road .-containing 230 awes of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
land, and the reft arable of she firft quality. There are
on the premises a good two story brick Hou£e, with 4 rooms
©n a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, stables ;
and other convenient buildings ; a smoke-house and stone,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are all in clover, except those immediately
under„tillage f and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.
The situation is pleasant and healthy, and from the high
cultivation of thelartd, the good neighbourhood, and tlr*
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman*!
country feat.
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harmao
dcceafed, and offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis^
Oft. 31. law Surviving Executor.
Waihington Canal Lottery,
N O . I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authoriftd
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollar*, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, frosn th Po
tomac tojthe Ealtern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Vi 2 -i Prize of 10,000 dollars, 10,000
I dftto r O,OOO 10,000
7 last drawn 7
Tickets, each J si°°® ZSfIOO
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 * 4,000
10 ditto 100 a,OOO
55 ditto jo a,750
5750 ditto II 69,008
To be raised for th« Canal, 16,15©
JBSO Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
X 7500 Tickets, atTen Dollars, . 175,000
0- The Cammiffioners have taken the Securities le
quired by the aforefaid acft for the pvnftual payment of
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which titnely
notice will' be given.
Such prize, as are not demanded in fix months after tht
drawing is.finilljed, shall be considered as relinpuuncd for
the benefit .f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly
(Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARR OLL, o/b.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGF. WALKER,
Wm. M. Dt/NCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Wafhfegion, Feb. xi. 5
Treasury Department,
September 28, 179^'
NOTICE is hereby given that projMlals re " j
ceived at the office of the Secretary of th« Trealury
a until the expiration of the firft day ot March next ffl
e fimg, for the supply of all ration* wluch may he:rc^u *d
a ior the use of the United States, fro.n tnc firft d y
s June, 1797, to the thirty-firft May, 17^,-
i, days inclusive, at the places and w.thm the diftrta. her
■, after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Nla | ar3 ' ( .
f Pjefque lfle; at Sandufky Lake, and on
River; at Detroit; at MichiKmackinac; at F ° rt " F "° \
Tin; at Pittsburgh ;at Cincinnati;' at Fort-Harad o , JV
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfon; at Grenv.lk, at 1
1, Picnue Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams, at £
r fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance; at any place below to
g Defiance oh the Miami River to Lake Bricj jtFort C
Steuben ;at FortMafTac ; at any place from Fort Mallac j
to the south boundary of the United States on the river c
e Miffifippi; at Fort Knox ; at puiatanon. V
,1 , If fuyplieslhallbe required lor any posts or p aces not -j
mentioned in this notice, all such supplies (hall be fur
nifhed at price's proportioned to those to be paid at the
polls before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the Contra&or.
The rations to be supplied are to confiil of the lol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound two ounces of bread »r Hour,
g One pound two ounces of beef, Or fourteen ounces o.
pork p
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whifltey. 0
One quart and half a pint of jj
Two quarts ef V inegar, ( er hundred rations
Two pounds of Soap, (
One po'ind of Candles, J
The rations are to be furniftred in fnch quantities, as that P
e there shall at all times during the said term, be fufiioient
for the confumpti<Ri of the troops at De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix months in p
advance, and at each of the other polls, for the term of tl
at lead three months ill advance, in good and wholesome ai
provisions, if the fame (hall be required. It is to be unj C
Jerftood, that the Centrafior is to be at the expence and
rifle of ifluirg the fuppli«s to the troops at each poll, and
that all lofles fuftaincd by the depredations of an enemy, or a ,
by means of the troops of the United States, shall be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on jj
" the depofitioss of two or more persons nf- creditable cha- |
radlcrs, and the certificate of a commiffioncd officer, as
certaining the circumllahces of the loss, and the amount .
1, of the »i tides for which compensation (hall be claimed
a OLIVER WOLCOTT, p
Secretary of the Treasury.
StM S c:
— > ; P'
Lancajler, Harrijburgh, CarUJle, Ship- t!
k penjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
The public are requested to take notice, that the part
nerlhip which has far some time fubfilled betweon Mathi- N
as Slough of Lancaster, and William Geer, is now dilft>l- I (
ved ; bat, not as M. Slough insinuates to the public | l
without jull cause ;as will more fully appear by a letter F
on tlr.e fubjed from M. Slough t» W. Geer, dated the j C
19th December last. a recital of which is not now deemed le
necessary. Any gentleman who wilhes to he more cir- b:
1' cumftantially informed of tht merits of this bufmefs, by
' applying to W. Geer may have the perusal of M.Slough's w
n lett«r, and then can be at full liberty to determine whe- d:
1 ther or not W. Geer is not perfectly jtiftifiabie in attach- n
v ing himfelf to any other person in the prosecution of the T
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenfburg, n
or any other place.
e ~ Now from tbe liberal and generous support the public
l' were pleased to confer on the firft effort in this business,
William Geer, in conjunction with Messrs. Reily, Weed
18 and Witmer, is determined to prosecute and carry it on,
14 with every care, attention and dispatch that a zeal to o
blige the public can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided with
carriages, horses, antj every appurtenance to render the a
paffage fafe and commodious, inform those who wilh to 0
patronize and encourage the undertaking, that they can c
a ~ take their feats at George Weed's, the sign as the White a
Ht.rfe, Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday J
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaller, Harrilburg, Carlisle
and Shippenfburg The fare as hitherto eftabliflied.
For the further accommodation ot the public, a Stage I
will start every Wednesday from the house of Samuel a
Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sunbury in Northumber
he land county, every Thursday, and return from thence and
-e, arrive at 'Harrifburg every Saturday, so that passengers
he destined for Lancaller or Philadelphia, may proceed «n
id, Mondays.
d- WILLIAM GEER.
re Lancaller, Jan. 27, 1797. j
ns N. B. This Lineef Stages starts from tht house of. ■
William Ferree, in Lancaller, on every Tuesday arid Sa-
L ' B ' turday morning at 6 o'clock, proceeding tothe westward; ,
'e, and from the house of Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg ■
f>- every Wednesday morning, on the fame evening arrives ,
ly at Patrick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns from
ge thence on every Thursday : performing) the fame routine
n * daily as in its tour frrfm Philadelphia. mwf
i . FOR sale,™ ~
•'» About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marsh
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
four separate Patents. For terms .<*>'-fale apply, to
Wm. Blackburn,
1 * No. 64, South Sccond-lh'tet
January 26. mwftf
THE SUBSCRIBER
'*? toafcertain, vhether a certain EDWARD
id, ILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Laver,
ng who quitted Ireland i, 1783, or 1784, and came into
0- this Country, ('t„ fuppefed to Philadelphia) about
four years since, be living or dead. As this intelli
gence u of thehifeheft iraportanee, it will be thankful
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS,
. No - 313. High-street
Detember 31. w \ f 2m
This Day is Published,
BY Mess- Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Riee, and the other
Book fellers, price One Dollar and twenty-five cents, ele.ant-
L Pn °" W ° Ve Paper ' ' nd ho, -l Jvcffcd > ty John Thomp-
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The CONSTITUTIONS of the federal States,
With each other, and with that of the United States:
exhibiting in Table., the prominent features o£ eaeii COll
- and clalSng together their most impnrtaiit »ro
vifions, under the several heads of admimftration ; witli
'e and Observations. By William Smith, of Seuth-
Caroltba, L L. D and member of the Cen-refs of the
,ut States tat£S ' Dcd ' c " ed t0 tha People of the United
:ly N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior paper, at
3"4tks of a dollar. February 6 - mwf
■ or ALL PERSONS
TNDF.BTED to the Estate of the late D A vm ICenvedt
b. nihtl f c,therb y °° te . bill, bond, book account, or
°, f Tr 'u arC rCqU , C, ed to make immediate payment to
the fubfenbers, w.thout delay, and allperfon,„
C '• ' h '
ANN KENNEDY ) Adm'x
For Sale,
By the Subscribers —In PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS. he
tvt w&f fla
Nov ' 3° ob
Red Clover Seed. b u e
Fresh red Clover Seed of th.e best quality, in bigs of
5 bufheJs each ' '
l Madeira wine in pipes, fit for immediate ule
Tenerifie wine in pipes, hsgfheads and quarter calks
Ditto do. of firft quality, for the use of private
families cai
■ Coffee in hogflieads m:
: Jamaica spirits wl
Connetficut soap in small boxes foi
Window glass and Spanish fegars, and all
; Two trunks of best patent, plain and ribbed silk and ful
cotton hosiery, forfaieby .
' ' JOHN CRAIG. ' ,a
1 February i. wtf&mtf y
" " CAMILLA, $
Or A Piiture of Youth. th j
' By the authoress of Evelina and Cecilia, to be com
prised in five volumes, at half a dollar each, payable pu
on delivery—Printed at New-Vork, by Mr. John p r ,
Bull. be
> CONDITIONS. ag.
I. Handsome, neat type, perfedlly new, is em- ful
t ployed. ? ■
t 11. A volume, Hitched in blue paper, is intended
. to be'publrfhed every z weeks, till the five are com- [ j J(
i pleted; the firlt .indl'econd are come to hand, and the an
f third is hourly expelled. Subscriptions are received,
: and Books may be had of J. ORMROB, No. 41,
! Chefnut-ftreet
-1
' Mrs. D'Arblay (late Miss Burney) the celebrated
authoress of this inimitable work, needs no eulogy \
to add to the laurels she has already acquire'' in the
literary world. The strength of imagination and ele-
i gance of style, displayed in Evelina and Cecilia, will
| ftifficiently lecommend to every reader of taste and
judgment, the perusal of Camilla, ""j
It may not lie improper to add, that the Queen of J
England, after ha\ing perused this interfiling publi- thi
cation, presented Mrs. D'Arblay with a thousand
i pounds sterling, as a testimony of her approbation of thi
j the work. bo
January 15 , mwf tic
Brokers Office, and p°
COMMISSION STORE. ex '
. No. 63 South Third street.opposite the national new Bank' an
SAMUEL M FRAUNCES *iAJOHN VAN REED, q,.
have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of
r J FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
: j Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and
1 fell on commission every species of ftoclc, notes of hand, t > l(
■ bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
1 Mon f. y procured on.deposits, &c. &c. 'all kinds e!
s writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
- most corred manner. Cofiftant attendance will be given.
; They solicit a lhare of the public favor ; they are deter
, mined to endeavour to deserve it. A
N. B. The utmost secrecy ebferved.
c ' SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES, bel
i, JOHN VAN REED,
i Philad. Augufl 17, 1796. m&wtf _
20 Guineas Reward.
, RANAWAY from the fubferiber on the ajd Oilobor, <1
e a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 11 years g c
D old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mked green
n 1 coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons ; j-,
e I a striped veil; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and ,
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change ''
e his name and dress. He has been accustomed te driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
e paid for fccuring him so that the fubferifeer may get him
I again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
Robins Chamberlaine.
d Safton. Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 f jmqawtf
« Wants a Place,
AS WAITER in a gentleman's Houle, a young man
who has lived for a considerable time in some of the
firft houses in the city, and whole character is sure; or
" would engage with a finjle gentleman to attend on him.
J- Dirc<shons>left at the New York and Baltimore stage-
I; office, No. 10, south 4th, near Market ftfeet, for R. H.
g will be attended to. February 14 ~'
City of Washington.
Scheme of th« Lottery, No. 11, for the improvement ,
of the Federal City.
A magnificent ) 10,000 dollars, & )
dwellnig-houfe, 5 cash 30,000, are $ 50, ® 0e si .
I ditto 15,000 & cash 25,000 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & caib 15,000 30,000
1 d.jtto ro.ooo & c»fh 10,000 so,ooo a
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 at cash 5,000 10,000
1 cafli prize of 10,000
a do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
10 do. i,eoo - - jo,ooo
20 do. 500 . . ie,eoo
D 00 do. 100 ' lo>ooß
•r, zoo do. 50 - . lO , OCO f
to 400 do. »5 . . 10 , 000 <
ut x,ooo do. ae . le ,ooo *!
Ii- t5»ooo do. IO . I#o>ooo *
16,739 Prizes. P
33,x6f Blanks.
5,0,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollar., , j.
1" Ticket!! t) To s3f 3v ° ur l^°fe w bo may take a quantity of
P- ti ket Tnd d ° UarS WlU '^^wn
A 1 30,000 the LAST but ONK :
er priL? P i? f V ' d r t "', feCU l inepa y ment in ? Uh « r mon *y
, any numhrr" V ter drawin S. will be received for
' L? not lef -- than 30 tickets.
II vate b'uMn -'J ?" dti 2 ant tbc pri
-- Lfi 6 ? ° f
ith fronts on two nf tk? nS "lfr a ' rca ' c ' c^c d for the enti*e
h- it is Drum.f .! n public squares; from these prawiugs
f L P' » the fortunate adventurers in
at A Sn be f d l n tKe fch£me f ° r the el Lottery!
the neceOarv e* ° f P er cent * w illbe made to defray <
- Will bfmTL P r u p f rmc,n g' the surplus «
UmverC L h °i j - U t ndintinded for the National i
Th/ i' r e . creded Wlthln th « city of Walhinctou. t
o T r are T held e blt^ U P' e «f ,Ven ° f '
to of Cblumhi, Pr , efident a , nd ; wo Direflors of the Bank
n"
hc st L , SAMUEL BLODGST. ■
James Weft &'r may ß I " th = of Col«mbia ;of '
of Tohn H 1 Baltimore ;of Peter Oilman, Boston :
Colpe r - s Fe e rry ms ' m#Bd !Md ° f Rickard #
/ •
SWAN N'S
Riding School, fforft Academy Infirmary,
Adjoining the Pablic Square. Market Street
T. SW^NN
RE-TURNS hi. fmcere thank, tot ~'fr gentlemen by whom
he ha. been employed, during tmrel.deoce in this cL ,„j
flatter.himfelf that the fuccef. of his efforts in r1,,,,
. obstinate and dangerous disease. ,n £ ZThT'
been consulted, together with hi. moderate charts J\iU
ure thett iuture favor. an,d recsmmendation
He now beg* leave to inform them and thi public at Jar.-
that his spacious and commodious premises errtLi c P
purpose. above described are open for the reception F
»f either sex, who w.fh.o bcinftrufted in theTt 0 f R L" PI
and the light method of governing their horses, f 0 a,to n&
them with eife, elegance and fafety-their horses will be
carefully and expeditioully broke, for every Duroofe
made obedient tot he will of the riders i the natural Power,
which are shut upm th<un,"will be unfolded bvart callin
forth uniformity ot motion, anU B i„«g „ thn nob
all those beauties ot attion which providence has so bo
fully bellowed on them.
Also.at hi.hospital, eve.y disorder to which the horse it
liable will be treated according to the rules of art,
by lung and repeated experience.
The utility of the above institution has never been qne#ion
«Lthat it has long been wanted in this city, ever* gentleman'",
Itud will mamfe-ft, and T. SWANNa. the firft eftalililher of
the veterenary art, solicit. and te't». upon the fuppo.tofthat
public (which he is ever anxious ;n ierving) to enable him to
bring it to perfeaion. The idea of a fobfeription for that
purpose has becu hinted by feveial gentleman, who wi(h to
promote the institution—the amount of each fubferip ion to
be returned by services in any of the departments. hepro'effes
agreeable to the rate of charges stated in his hand bill. Such
fubfeription i.now open, and the fignaturespf many relped
able gentlemen alicad'y obtained. He therefore injormi hit
friend, aqd fu. h Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he (hall in a few days take
the liberty of waiting upon them and soliciting their support
and protection.
N B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladieiand
Geiulemenwho wish to be inftrufled.
Nov. 5. tth&f.
A Woman Cook,
WHO can be well recommended, may hear of a good
place by enquiring of the Printer.
February 1 TThS3w.
Lottery and Broker's Office,
A'o. 64, South SkCCNI) STRf fiT^
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sale—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and registering, for
the City of Washington, No. j, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—informatio* where
tickets are to be had, and prices exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all thf prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public
■ and his friends, who wish to purcnafe or fell Bank Stock,
; Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
' *„* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dollar, each, which will be drawn early in
the Spring. ,
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, January 26, 1797. mth
To be fold,
The time of a Mulatto Girl,
WHO has to years to serve, and is now about 17 year*
old. She is a hearty, strong gh I, and can have the
best «f recommendations from her owner.
Apply at No. no Union-street, next to the corner of 4th
February 18 ft & tgt
Canal Lottery. No. -11.
Scheme of a Lottery, authorized "Gy an a?l entitled
' "An adl to enable the President and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Sufqaehannah navigation, to raise, by
way of Lottery, the fumof Four Hundred Thousand
Dollars, for the purpose of completing the works, in
their ads of incorporation mentioned."
dollars
I Prize of twenty thousand dollars, so,oo®
I of ten thousand dollars, 10,00®
f of four thousand dollars each, to
be paid to the poffHTors of the five
numbers firft out of the wheel on the lad
day's drawing, at which time there (hall
not be less than 500 numbers undrawn, 20,909
10 of two thousand dollars each, lo,coo
1 20 of one thousand dollars each, 10,600
e 43 of five hundred dollars each, n,joo
r 100 of two hundred dollars each, 20,e0®
" 100 of one hundred dollars each, 10,000
azo of fifty dollars each, 11,009
29,500 of five dollars each, M7>s°P
30,000 Tickets at ten dollars each. 300,009
( Six dollars for each ticket will only be demanded at
the time of sale.
All prize* shall be paid ten days after the drawing is
finifbed, upon the demand (Jtrtrt pofTvfUir ufa'fwtunate
ticket, fubjeift toadeduflionof fifteen percent.
Such prizes as are not demanded within J 2 months
after the Drawing is finilhed, of which public notice
will be given, shall be confidercd as relinquifiied for
the use of the Canal and applied accordingly.
At a meeting of the President and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Snfquehanna Canal Navigation—an J
the President and Managers of the Delaware and
Schuylkill Canal,
Resolved, That Joseph Ball, John Steinmctz, Stan
difh Fordc, Francis Weft, James IW'Crca, John Mil
ler, junr. and William Montgomery be a committee
to arrange and diredl the mode of disposing' of the
tickets j which committee shall deposit the money it?
Bank, to be carried to the credit of an account to be o
pened fpr the Lottery.
At a meeting of the Canal Board, held January 16, '97,
Resolved, That the, committee for conducing the
Lottery be directed to commence the 011 the
firft day of March next.
f Extratf from the minutes,
" Wm. M. Smith, Secretary.
Joseph Ball, 1
,y .'/sin Sfeinmclz,
it 'Standifb Porde,
Francis I'/eJt, |> Manager*.
'* James M'Crta,
"I Johu Mji.hr, jun.
is William Montgomery,
;s, Jan. *9. th&f£_
Washington Lottery.
y , TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
iy exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. i47> Chefnut
us £reet, where a correifi: Numerical Book is kept for public
al inffiedtion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for. sale or ex
changed for prizes diawH in the Wafhingtoo Lottery, or
;8j which the 6oth and 6ift days returns are received.
Ik Tha.Bufincfs of a Broker carried on as usuaL
a- January J2. ttst^
of PRINTED BY JOHN FEN NO,
B ; —No. 119 —
C H ES W U T-STK H E T.
[Price Eight Dellars pir Annum.)