ef t'pe Ultlittljl Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NUMBEJ: 1636.J
sales by auction.
Stilted Sales
For DR r GOOD S.
r Forenoon—Edward Fax, No. g&,
Mandav J lu »«h Fronc-ftreet,
I Afternoon—Footman & Co, No, 6$
t* C. South- Frent direct.
f' Forenoon—John Connellv, Old City
Vitefdij»< Audi ion, No 73 fout'h Front-street.
- *~S Afrernoon—William Shannon, No.
(. IS3 High-street.
IVtiLard** { Afternoon Peter £snfon, No. 74
fouth Tkird-flr-cet.
Tb*roay \ Fox.
C Afternoon—John Con-jelly.
Friltii i forenoon —William Shannon.
* 3 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
'TcTbe fold at the Merchant's Cof
fte-Houfe,
ON wednesday the 15th of December at 7 0'
clock is the evening, one certain band or
obligation dated July 16, 1795, ligned by Jphn
Love of Alexandria tor Hnilelf, J o ' Watfop
and Samuel Lovefor,£6lio Virginia currency,
pavible on the 31ft' of October la'i paft.tn Stock-
Wy RoHelfim ot his assigns—which Bond the
said Oonelfon afiigned to James Grant, under
whole power of attorney this file *(iil be made.
For further particular* appl\ to the
FOOTMAN andCa- AMfliomrtrs.
Nov. a?. dUjthd
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
si (If not before disposed of at private file)
Monday the biftdayot January oett, at fix
V-/ o'clock, iu the cv«t>ing, at ihe Merchant*' Cof
fee House, in Philadelphia, Twnav-Six 1 houland
S'fven Hundred and acres of LAND, in the
State #f New-York, beiwe<** <hc northern bounds
of Pemifylvania and rta- Su quebpnoa, n&w, or Ult
iu the townftjips of Hamdcu and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery. One fourth of the purchase
money m t>e paid at the lime of sale ; for the rcGdut
credit of ore two and three months, will be given,
4>n in'ereft and good security.
D c. 4 fltawtS.
To be bold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private fall)
ON Monday the tirti day us January ueJtt, at fix
o'clock: in the evening, at the MeichanU'Coffoe
House, in Pixladelphia, Forty Thousand Nine Hun
died and Thirty-Nine acres of LAND in Qreen
county, Commonwealth of Pennfylvania,on th» Wa
ters of ,Fi(b and Wheeling and tea Mile Run.
These lands are fertile, well timbeiedand abound in
coal; they were .fold ten yeata ago for ss. per acre,
patented early in 1787, except 3,700, which were pa
tentee; in 179 a t the ot them were for
veved in 178,3.
This trail ij -between the Ohio and Monongahela,
very convenientto water carriage—about 19 miles from
the town of Wilhington, and from 1410 16 from the
villages ofGitenfburghand Wheeling. One fourth
of the purchase money is to ic paid at the time ol
sale ; for the relidue a credit of one, two, and three
months will be given, on intercft and good security.
_»ec. 1. r-
Wanted, by a Gentleman in Virginia,
A discreet, sensible Matron,
.aged about 45 or s° ye»". qualified to teaeh
young boys Vfriting, Arithmetic, History and
Geography—Alto, to ad in the capacity of House
•Keeper. for further information apply to the
Primer. Nov. aß—diw
To Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114, corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The fituatioii
agreeable—and vicinity lias bc«ti fre; from the late
contagion. .Oct. —dtf
COLUiMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MKS..GKOOAIBHIDGE.with mOch pleaf
ureand rtfped, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
Ilie his received during four years refidenae in
•Fhil-adelphia ; and allures heT friends and the
/public, so far from intanding to decline her
school, (be has made.a luperior arrangenwnt Jor
the <nw>re c-oftvenient accommodation of her
fcholais. —Every jbiunch of ufcful .and polite
education is-particularly attended to by Mrs.
'Gr/>ombridge and nufters excelling in their
refjpeilive profrfTioi.s.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June jthr f797-
The fituat'.nn is perfeflly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden andlot
of ground adjoining the bouse.
This Day Published,
'And to be fold by WILI-fAM YOUNG, aorqer of
Second a-nd Chefnut streets,
Price yitls of a Dsltar,
Qbfervations on tvrtain Documents
Contained i» No. V and .VI of
«' The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which th* cn*RGit of speculation niriunlt
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late SeckxtaSy of the Theasury, is EULLY
REFUTED.
IV BITT EN Br HIMSELF.
Th : s publication presents a concise flatcmcnt
aof the bo.fe means pFailifed by the Jacobins of the
United iStates to asperse the charaders of ihofe
jpsrfons who arc considered as hodile to their difor
ranizing fah;me». It also cuntnins the cor-
Tefpondence between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgti and Venable, on the fub
,;cia of the docaments aforefaid, and a series of let
ters fr»n« Jam«*.R.eynolds and his wife to Mr Ha
milton, proving beyond the pollibility of a doubt,
that the ccnilecliou between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring confpiraay 011 the part
<if the latter and his associates to extort money.
- • -;-y- a difconnt of one third from the retail price
iviifbc made in favor ot wholefaie purcliafrrs, for
CASH. Orders ts beaddrtffied to Mr Y.oun«.
AuguJl is. . .
Landing,
From on board the ship Edward, at Walnut
ftreet Wharf,
London particular Madeira Wine,
of a superior quality, For Sale by the fubferiber.
Robert Andrews.
November J. eot f
—* tcTbe sold,
Or Exchanged for Property in the Country,
That three story Brick Houle,
No. 157, north Third flrcet. -Apply at the of
fice of this Gazette. Nov. 49- w&a yw
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 6, 1797.
- For Londonderry,
The American Ship
BOSTON PACKET,
Coppkrthwait, Master,
lying at Mifflin's Wharf,
near Vuie-flreet—Has elegant accorauriod«tjo«s for
paffen;>rr'—will fail, weathw ncrmittinE, "0 or
aWnfctcAfciß. h.ving 'all
ready to go on board. For palTage only, apjilv to
the captiin.
Smith I*? Ridgway,
No 4, North Water fttreet,or to
Isaac Harvey, Jun.
Ho. 5, South Water flrcet.
December i §iot
for Amsterdam,
Ee EDWARD,
James Wickham, Ufajier,
XPSCTED to fail in a few days, havigg two
1 thirds of her cargo already engaged, ana near
ly on board. For Freight or PalTage, apply to
| the Mailer on board, at Hamilton's wharf, or to
_John Donnaldfon,
No. Ja, Wulnut-ftrect.
November 18. dßt
r or Aniftefdam,
The Ship
FARMER,
JaiiN 4^"Cot.LoM, Mailer;
fail in a few days, the
w-*^Ut43Jfco-i»g r e»ter part of her cargo btii'g I
ready Fpr freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pas
sage, appiy to the master on board, at V, aluut
ftreet wharf, or to
JOHN-SAVAGE.
Who i, Ltading, out of the faid&hip, from Bor
deaux, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fentiniac,
Sauterne, > Wines in cases
Lunille, )
Prunes in boxes
noverober 14. 5
for Liverpool,
The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
Captain Silaj Sw.mm.
V*rV - A Large proportion of her
-XJL cafgo being ready to go on
board, is expe&cd to fail #n or aboutsunday, the
3d of December.
For Fwight or Pajfage, apply to the on
board, at Walflut-ftreet Wharf, or to
PHILIP NICKLIN W Co.
November 12. §
' FOR LONDON,
penn,
Jambs Josiah, Mailer.
THE (hip is now-taking on boardber ca.tgo, and
will fail in all next weak. For freight fir passage
apply to the captain ©r to
Jeffe cis Robert Wain.
' nov if
For Londonderry,
THE BRIGARTINE
Willi am W mT-TtN, Mailer.
A drong good vessel, about two
hundred tons, to fail with all convenient speed, a
great part of her cargo engaged—now lying at
Willing and Francis's wharf. For freight or pas
sage, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
LanJenltergtr's vibarf. i
Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel of about three hundred tons.
nov 'B. § '
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Ch is holm,
-A nov vessel, with excellent
a CC ommodatio n s forpaflengers—
Sails on the 10th of December. P&r Freight or
Pafßlge, apply to ROSS 15* SIMSON.
Who have to of ,
A fma!l
INDIGO, anda parrelof HOLLY WOOD.
November 18.
t or Hamburgh.
The Brig M A R Y,
Pitta York, master,
k Lying at RulTel's wharf, near Fine
j is now ready to take in a
Cargo,, and .will fail in tuu days.
ForFreirht, or PalTage, apply to
GURNEY,& SMITH.
November *6. 'hf
Rundle & Leech,
Hare jull received, and have for -Sale, at no. 9,
Walnut ftrect,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT
Do. bed house CO A LS
Queens' WARE in cases, assorted
Bourdeius BRANDY of an excellent quality
Do. CLARE T in cases, do.
<s"ri THFY ALSO
'i'W-k. For SALE or CHARTER,
TUE 3B "
PEGGY,
Burthen tls tons, in excellent condition, ?nd
may be ifent to sea with little rxf ence or delay.
LIKEWISE,
WILLIAM,
Burthen aoi tons,
november 16-
-For Sale or Charter,
The faft failing brig
BROTHERS,
- - Lying at Gurling's wharf,
• an excellent ljngle dcfk'd veflel, burthen, about
1600 barrels —rot twelve.months old, and in
eompleat order, for terms apply to the master
on board, or to
Jofepb Anthcn~j £ff Co.
Nov. diw.
By John Fenno, W 0- iiq Chejnut Street.
THE SHIP
COMME R C K,
1 Captain Richabb V. „istcoat,
frinn Liverpool is now discharging
at Mi+ri> i w'barf, near the Drawbridge, where
, owner, of freight, will please to
fend their permits, fc'aid vrffLl »ft*r
take in fr-;<l.t on V'rylbW terms for A-o
---r ply to the ea;-: or to
jfaac Harvey, juri.
Nq. g, Sonth Neater Street.
A ffiW toijs of (lane, or sand ballall wantsd.—
Apply as above.
_novcniberi7 §tot.
For Charter,
THE SHIP
John Butkley,
Sanauel Volans, Majlcr.
•'i r vA'F'HIS vessel is built of live 05&
I and of about 30. o
barrels burthen, and ready to receive 011 board a
ca»go.
Jeffe <sf Robert Wain.
Oifl. 31.
For Sale or Charter,
The Snow
«i ■" GOOD HOPE,
W ! car»y about 1100 barrels,and
SK<fc3LS?l '* rc4f ly to take in a cargo. For terms
'!' apply to
Pragers Co.
No. 15k, aouth Second-street.
j Who have for fale—lprime St. Croix Sugar and
, Rnni, Ma-.tejra, Lilbon, ai_ni Tenerifi'e wine.
November 7. drf.
P o rJLajada cl. eir a Wine,
Now Landing,
By ship Edward, from Madeira, and Bet fey and
P e ggy, from Oporto, in Pipes and Hog!bead«,
Fqr fate by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFERS FQJt JALB,
AMITY,
t-.Vv F\ 1 Four thousand barrels burthen,
excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo—about three years old.
LIKEWISE,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 barrels, ready also to receive a car
go—and.a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Jui lauded from the above vessels at aouth flrcet
Wbaff. eoim. Nov. |.
Philip Nicklin £sf Co.
HAVE FOB SALE,
At their Storks on Walnut ft Wharf,
HavannahSugars, whiteandbrown
15 hhds. Jamaica do.
3000 pi-ces of -broad Nankeen* -
Imperial Tea,in quarters and eighths of chests
Quicksilver in tutis
Madeira Wine in pipes and hoglteads
Tencriffe Wine in pipes
Old red Port Wine in hoglbeads
Sail Canvafc, aflorted, No. 1 to 8
S cafes'of Manchejlcr Goods, confiding of Dimities,
M uflinets. Ginghams,Thickl'ctts,Corduroy 0) &c.
100 crates Queens' Ware, assorted
Nails, assorted
Black quart Bottles
Yellow O.cite in calks
A quantity of writing Slate*, slate Ink Stands, &c.
100 quarter cjalks Gun Powder
1 ley Lave also for SALE or CHARTER,
The ship MOLLT, burthen 340 tons, a
good vessel, and completely fitted.
The brig AMAZON, burthen isoobar
; rels, may be ready for fca in a few days.
The whole of the above vessels to be seen at j
Walnut Arret Wharf. t $ nw Jc.
House and Lots, in Bar dent own.
■ 'O BE SOLD, a handsome two (lory House.
A with the Lot.on which it is -.reded, f.tuatid
about the middle of the beautiful aud healthy
Village of Bordentown. The is forty two
feet front, and in neat order The lot contains
one acre, and is one hundred feet on the main
ftrect, and extends with the Came breadth tobaak
ftrect. Alfo,a large Lot, containing nearly four
acres, separated from the former by back ftrect.
One third only of the purchaj'e tnpnpy will be re
quired upon executing a deed, and for the re
mainder, fueh credit will be given as the purchase
er.maychufe. This property will be fold free ®
all incumbrances, and an indifpuublc title givejif
Tor further particulars enquire cither of Dr.
William Burnes, refidipg in Bordentown, near,
the premises, who willihew the fame, or of
PETER THQMSON,
Conveyancer, no. 144, Market-street.
December 2. 3awtf
James is 5 Richard Smith,
TAKE the liberty of informing their fiends
and the public, that they have removed their
llore to No, 54, South Erohtjlreet, next d«or to Ed
ward. Fox's Au&icn Room, where they have at
this time for sale, a large and general allbrtment of
European & F.aJl India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
WiUJam Penn, &c. &c.
Oft. 37.
Samuel-Pleafants-Sff Sons,
No. 74, South Second-flreet,
HAVE received afupply ofSeafonable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale', on
reasonable terms. Oel 3 7. —4W
~ ROSS Es* SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Cuflfas, and
a,quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in tag* »nd boxes
Jamaica, "J
St. Vincents, £ RUM,
and Bengal j
300. calks RICS, «nd
,A of ihip building RED CEDAR.
Odl. 27. J
Landing this day,
, From on board tb» schooner-Two Friends, Dan
iel Cra.wley> Matter,
' 80 h^ ds ' and ( Jamaica RUM,
j a pipes ) J A >
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer Zy Son.
uovember 9. §
Salisbury Estate
'JPHK Subscriber, propjfi-ig to contn"' I)is bufi
* nels, f.fft-rs this Eiiaie lor faje, on moderate
terms. O.i it are 00c Biaft and fh.ee Air Furliates,
.« cpmpleie Boreiiig MachtnCi and a very t»<)6d grSit
Mill, With two of flonts ; alio a good Forg.-, all
in perfect rrpdii, as are all the Water \Vorl. & connc&-
ed wuh thefc various branches. The Air Purftacef "
were lately built for the f»urpole of caftiu K Canu-n
ior thus State. are Voou': two t;,oufaod «c»-cs ,
of Land, on* >( which i s under
very fine arable Land, producing ine belt Hay 2nd
The Cannon lately mannfadfured th- ;e,
fuTly proves '*ie excellency of the m6[t\, whicii is
superior to any » this country, and probably, equal j
to any the v.srld ; for not one oh fixty-nioc vwns I
lately midc, althoug'i some of the 24 were bored 1
ifc?os2 pounders have failed on proving. The fi»u- I
atipa 's very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufa&urc, aud a place ol arms lying in the ijafc
cf Conijeiflicui, and oaly 50 miles from UvCral land
ings on the MfadtCaus river, and having every advan
tage can lrom a plenty of water iff-»ing
lrom a large p >nd, very nent the furnace,
and which may 6e converted into a variety of'other
•ufeful purposes. Ihe purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all tfteftockand utrnfils, and have pofltfliou
on or betore the tuil ot Junenex 1 , and prep-intion
may be made in the mean time for im
mediately thereafter, for cvejy part will be delivered
in good with some coai, Ore, &c. See. For
terras, apply to Mr. Joseph in
phi*; David
in Conjrefs lor tbu>Sia:e ; Mr, IDavid Waterman, on
ihe prcini'fes,' or to'tlie proorietor in New-York.
WILLIAM
Dec. 1. • t f
English Grammar,
The second edition, with improvements,
ADaV rED rothe different claflVs of learners ;
with an appendix, containing rules and ob
serVations for assisting the more advayed students
to write with Defrfpicuity and accuracy,
Pv LIN'DLEV MURRAY.
" This is % puOhca'ion <ft' ■ -u-h merit, and fully '
anfw«» the prukflions in the Title. Ibe api:#a
dix contains lonic of the belt rules fcr writing e
legaritly, and with propriety, that Wc recollect to
have seen."
Monthly Rtvie<w, July 1796.
" This Grammar is, on many accounts entitled
to co£nmendatoiy notice, its materials have been
carefully and judicioufjy fetafled ; its araangemeut
is diftmil and well adaptsd to the purpose ot in
flrudlion and its exprelfioH is Cmple, perspicuous
and accurate, &c L "
See the ebaraSer at large in the Analytical
Review, July 1796.
English Ejcercifes,
Adapted to tbf Grammar lately publilhed by
Lindley Murray, confining of exemplification of
the parts of speech, inftaocesof salsa orthography,
violations of the rules of fyn:ax, defers in punc
tuation, aud violations of the rules refpeding
perspicuity and accuracy, designed far the benefit
of private leyrncrs, as well as for the use of fchooU.
"We bays been mudi pleased with the petufal
of these Exercises. They accupy with diftinguißi
ed excellence a most important place in the fcicncc
of the English language; and as such, we can
warmly recommend them to the Teachers of
Schools, as well as to all tjiofe who are dcfirou* of
attaining con rolntf. and precision in their native
tongue."
Monthly Rsticw, Jnly 1797.
The above Books are for sale at Josxth & James
Crukshakks book flora, No. 87, Market ftrect.
x. 3taw»w.
. N u T ICE.
' t "HE partwerfbip between Joiin Isstone and
S. Ja.mesttftttTv, utfder the firm of Inltone and
Bicoft, is this daj- dift'olved by mutual cor.lent.—
Allpcrfpns .who lUnd' iodohted to fa d !:rm are:
rf<ju*lied to make immediate payment or their
i clive accnirits, to John sjcv«li.n, 011 1. an.11-
burger's wharf, *vho is duly autlvorifed to receive'
_th- fame ; and all perfolls liavlne any a
gainft the said firm, ire d-fired to bring'in their
accounts, immediately tnJiim for.fettlement.
John In/lone,
"James Bacon. \
november to. eodtf
B E E f.
Priipe ?eef, fit.for Inilia voyages, for sale by
WILLIAM SUEAEI-,
No. 168, High-ltrt:t.
Also, about fifteen huntjrtd weight of Sees-:
Wax. dtf Nov- is, 1797-
Library Company of Philaaelphia.
THE Members of the Library Company of
Philadelphia are hereby informed, that! the Libra
ry will be open on Monday next, the 4th of De
cember, for the reception and delivery of hocks.
■Xhpfe who neg'eit to return the books, which
had b^enf4k^ n out to the firft ps tieptfm
ber I aft, in the course cf the enfuiug week, will
be fined as the rules direct.
The Loganian Library
Will also be opened at the fame *ime, for tlie like
purposes.
N. B. A few copies of the catalogues of the
bunks belonging to these institutions thay be had
at,the Library. ,
Z. POULSQN, JUN. Librqrivn.
Library, november io.
The City Dancing Aflembly,
Will commence at O'Eller's Hotel, 011
-Thurftlay. December 7th.
Thomas M. Willing Stephen Kingston
.Jimes Gibltm William Read
Henry YVikoff Robert E. Griffith.
Managsrs.
Nov. 29th. dßt
All Persons
Having any demands aga'mft tke Eflete of the
late Captain George Irwin, are requeued to
bring in their accounts pioperly attested, on or
before the firft day of January next ensuing
and thole who are indebted to said estate are so
licitcd to inake immediate payment to
3AKAH IRWIN, Administratrix.
Nov. 29 1797-
NOW LANDING,
From ot) .board the Ihip Farmer, lying at Harper's
Wharf,
Claret in hhds.
Ditto in cases
Suuferne Wine in do.
For Sale, apply to
John Whitefide & Co.
N0.'138, S arket-llrcet.
Alfa, on hand,
Eourdeav-x Brandy in pipes
Fine old Antigua Rur.i
A fcrf ca;es of Cl'.ret, of a fnpericr qual'ty.
Dovtfttb r ij. '
dancing.
Mk. BrRNEi
OF the New l"he?tre, returns hisfiNtere (tanks
to the Lad. c and G< r llt.rcr. (hat honored hhn lull
fcalon—His Academy will open id December, at
O Ellers's, I'usfday and Saturday mornings from
eleven to two fur young Ladies, attended by Mrs.
By* N,f. ; oil the fame iteys in thv afternoon froni
three (ill fix for youeg Gentlemei) j aud in the
evenirgs of T.'-nrf-lays and (-attu-days, from fix
till nine for Gentlemen. Pteafe to appjy at t"K;
Acndemy, at the hours Of tuition.
Mr. Byrne's liril BaTl will be on Tuesday, 12th
December, and continue once a fortnight through
out the season. • December I—fs&»n
BUSH-HILL,
December I, I 797.
THE pjrnjerfhip between us, is this day dis
solved by mutual cunfent.
William Bates,
V William Parley.
By JOHN MILLER,'jun. « Co.
N'o. 8, Ch-Irut-li;c;t.
One hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
/.mongfc which are,
Gurrahs Ma-rtoodics
Baltas Saunas
Guz/,. nahs Yanda Cofiacs
Guzzi«'9 Eoierki
Blue Cloths Calico s
Palum poor® komafl Handkerchiefs
Among# tticm are a great proportion of the
manufactures of Patra.
December" I. §
10 le Sf!d (
A Bill on Richmond,
[Payable at fight. Inquire at this office.
Dee. I. 2t
The Sttbfcri'oer intends to make
application for (he renewal of a Certificate ofa Share
in 1 he Ra/lk of die United States, {landing in the ljfcrrt'tf
of .4. B. No. 3004, dated July 11,1 797, the fame
having been 1011. JOHN GRaHA.M.
Richmond, Dec. 1. <.§ w
To be fold,
An ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
flory brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irish trail lane, in the
townlhip of Meyamenficg, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
he made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for tafle and
elegance, Hand unrivalled.
December {. dtf
GRATTAN,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of the City, that she propoies having
Four CONCERTS and BALLS during the winter.
Six Dollars each'Subfcribsr, for one Ticket of
admittance during the season.
No Subfciibers Tickets transferable.
Two Dollars a single Ticket.
The Concert to begin at half past fix, and the
Band to attend for the Ball at eight—the expence
of which Mri. Grattan engages to discharge.
The Concerts will begin as soon as the Band ar
rives from New York.
SuSferiptiom received, and Tickets delir*
ered at No. 19a, Market ftrect.
rirrveniber 29. - ' §iw
Chocolate and Mustard,
( f a fupcrior quality manufaflured,
GINGER and Pepper, ground j fhelletl or
pearl Barley ; Philadelphia Porter, Beer,
Ale and Cyder ; Taunton and Burton Ale ;
I.oiuhm Porter ; red, Port and Lilbon Wine,
luitalile for exportation or home consumption.
The highest pi ice given for Mullatd-Seed.
Also ftr/ale, A quantity of Backing and
(■ornraon Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of
Fuilians, Shawls, &c, for sale by
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, fou(h front-ftreet.
lov. 7,7., m.&th.t.ij.
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whole and half tierces
Bout deaux Brandy
Teiitriffe Wine
Molaj/ts
Georgia and
Ravens Duck and one hog/head o/paint
irn/bis.
N. tz? y. Frazer.
A'o. 95, Honth Front Street.
Nov- ■■ dim
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.-
■THIS DAY IS Fi'3l. j - HED, in one vol. oislavo
£y William Young, Booijeller,
No. j 1, Second ttrect, the corner of Chelnut tlreet,
(Price, in biar.li 8711 Cents)
Neatly printed on fine American wove mediu»
Paper,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eftabliftied in th« element!'
of Medicipe, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M. D.
With an attempt to correfl some important er
rors ofthat work, and cases in illufiration, chief
ly feletftcd from the records of their pra&ice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br William T,ates & Chas. Macieak.
To which is fubjnined, a Treatise on the a«Si> n
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diseases of indirect debility
Andadiflertstion on the sources of Epid^mrcarnl.
Peftilentialdirenfes; in whichisattempted toprove
by a numerous induction of fadls, that they ne
ver arile from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain Hates, or certain viciKitudes of
the - atmosphere, by Charles Maclean, of
Calcutta,
nov. 11. fiat
To be Sold,
A Valuable Plantation,
OF upwards of One Hundred Acres of I.and,
well watered, in a healthy {juration, ahcu
seven miles from this City ; the buildirgs may ! e
nude to accommodate a iarge family, r.t .1 mode
rate ejepenfe, and pofleflion lvd ia a ftw wt'jl.s.
Patt 4f the purchare-money beirg paid, areatou
able credit will be allowed for the remainder.
■ Knquire of the Printer.
• novemter 3 mwltf
[VQZ,vme .XIIFOR.'SALB— by the Subscribers,
An elegant aflortment of Madrafs
HAN!'KF*'CHI I ':FS, hy the haK
WILLINGS FRANCIS,
Ijnv. JI. § p«nn.".ra.'t. j Jnr
" "FOR SALE, : ~ |
by Tit subscribers, No. %f, Penn-flreet, ja
" "The Cargo of the Ship Ganges, |cc
Jnhn Green, commander, from Bengal, j w
Conftftirg of / 1 tv
fiaftas, of various qualities & prices J e <
C'«T»cs ' Pii'ijnm CUjtJi* I b
Sjnj'n Ouzz y <!"• I 1
H'.i.mf-'.ims Charcorna Dorea 1 q
Blue i.'luih ■ • . Tanj bs • -
Chhits and CaUcves ), MirimaU '
Mamoodys Clieclts I
Maharattonges Patna Hhkf.. v
,ni'n s ha"n» in. t
G'lTaakias ■ ' 1 ' e
Curruhs Siflcrft'.y. ,
Piniafccrts Chopps RoWals ' r
Sa'gitchys S-oty do. f
Gillie PomaU Pet Sans of various colour* |
Moult P'rlkuK ]
'ico ton? SUGAR. 1
90,000 IV PEPPER. |
Willing* Eif Franck. \
Tbi Piece Goods
Of the arc row open ami exposed to fale:t
that ftorc the north wtft corner of
M;r!cn Foii-tH !lraet. rm> 'n.
L A U 1 N Ci,
Frctmo'i I'o-ir.l th-filip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell, 1
fram l,oii(tnn, J
bo tons of the best clean Ruflia
HFViP
6c rafcol bo'tlcd BP OWN STOUT.
Forjale by the i\iMcriber», No. 11, F«nn-(lreet.
' Witlings C5 5 Francis.
oa. 31. H
jaft arrived.
From Tort-au-Pfince, and for sale h/ ihe fu'bfcri
ber*. !■:, Peun-ftreot,
6*l ho^fneadi,"^
gs. C Prime Coffee
52barrels (
6^6.baps J %
Willings y Francis.
oa. *g. ' , *>
FOR iSALE,
$r THE SUtiSCRISERS,
Madeira Wine, firft quality, in
p'p r "
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pi|>es
Lifter WINF., in pipes
} of the litc.i importation, in boxes
NUTMEGS j
Spanish Wool, in Bales fnitiMe for Hatfrs. 1
Willings hrinns,
Penn-ftreet, No. jr.
Nov. 1. w^ttf_
* Imported in the brig tliza,
C'ipt. Hastie, from Bcurdeaux ;
CI.TCt in C afi-s if x vtry ftiperior quality,
'Vhite Pantcrne Wine in Cafe*,
CTive Oil in bafcet; of 1Z bcttlfi each,
e and coloured Gloves,
(io. Silk do.
/ few pis' s Boardeaux Srmdy,
l.r SjU by
JAMES 1 ATIMER, jun.
7i, South Wharvts.
Who has a!fo for Sale,
A few qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine.
Dec. ?.
NOW LANDING,
At South-street Wharf,
7be Cargo of the Ship Concord,
Captain Thompson, ffr>m li-.'avia.
About 300 tons firft quili'v Java CofFct (the
whole havinjbeen felc&ed)
80 tons Java Sugar, in caniflcrs and bags
10 kgurcs of old A rrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
FOR SALS Br
PETER BLIGHT
Who also offtrs For Sale,
Jufl Und«*f from ihip Amity, from Jamftica.
ao® hhd# Jamaica Sugar, and
170 do. do. Rum.
novembcr d6w
• DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL prefrnts his
moll compliments to his form
er employers and the citizens in general, amd re
tiirip h's rnoft gistefal thanks, tor the very
bountif il t-iiroiii he has expetienced for
tbefe twenty-five years past, takes this opportu
nity of informing t'nem, that his school will be
open'U 011 \\"r.;nel';iav the jjd instant, at his
Elegant Ball Room,
in South Fourth-Street, between Chcfnut aiW
Walr.ut-ftreets. To begin at To in the morning
for young ladies, and i in thj evening for younj;
gentlemen. _
&■ Praftiling Balls will commence on Tuef
d<y, 6th December, and be continued every
Tuesday, during the season.
flow. >7.
D A .N. C I N G.
M*. FRANCIS,
OF ihe New refpeillully L-.formsthe
that he co longer means to continue
his Dancing School in conjunflion with Mr.Eyrne,
.but will open it separately early in December, »nd
ftill to receive the accutlom'ed patronage with
which he has been honored, and which it will be
hia conSant tndeavor to dcfcrve.
Vritatc parties" may b* inOruiled at his own
house, No. 70, north Eighth flreet.
novlmber ag. eotf
To be Sold,
The time of a Negro Boy,
. About fifteen years of age, has (even years yet
to terve ; he is an excellent honfe fcrvant, a&<vs
end healthy. Enquire or the Printer.
December *. diw
Canal Lottery-—No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, thezoth
inft. Tickets fpr Sal? in this Lottery, at
Sevtn Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreet—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dalltrt, where check books are kept, lor render
ing and examioing in these, the City of Welling
ton, No.lt. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa
xicn where tickets may be had in mcft of the Lotte
ries .'uthoriftd liy hrw in any of the S a;es of the
Union.
' V. B. The bufineft of a Broker, ir. buying ?nd
fvlling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcounthg £i!U and Notes of Hand, fa!c of
Lands, Houfos, &c. &c. wi)l be duly attended to,
by WM. ELACKBURN.
ntmtixtcr IJ. 1 §
A Journeyman HAir-Drefler,
WHO is frber and fleaily, and underflands
his bufinels, may have immediate cm
plf.yiT.ent, ot| appiicaiion to GEORGE A3-
BOTT, No. 5, Ciiefsut-ltri'M. nov-17.
' eodi.W.
L UV INTELLIGENCE. jar
BRISTOL, (ENGLAND,) Aug. 28, }lo
At Nisi Prius Bar, a cause of very, grrat j dt
importance to the mercantile world, came 1 so
on to be tried before Sir Nafh Grofe and j 01
a fpccial jury. M'Taggart and co. tobac- jb'
co merchants, of London, struck a bargain I k
with the Hunters and co. merchants of Brif- > c<
to!, to fell them a quantity ps tnanufaflurt . k
ed tobacco, to the arqount of 15001 for a t
bill at three months, payable in London. ' r:
The goods were {hipped off in the latter part si
of Fibruary. ' About the beginning of
March of the fame year, the house of the
Hunter's became Jnfolvent, which was pre
vious to the time when M'Taggart'a bill on t
them became due. They tbertfpre do soon- v
er taardof the failure, than one of the part- f
tiers hastened front town, and overtook the {
goods at Portsmouth, which he instantly t
seized, and would not fuffer to proceed. ]
Now this was an aftion of trover, brought e
by the aflignees of Hunters, to recover the r
value of the tobacco so seized by the defen*
dan's ; upon this ground, that the veflel in
which it was (hipped by the consignors, was 1
a chartered (hip of the consignees, and that 1
therefore it was an aftual delivery to them. ;
The leading counsel for the defendants, '
made a very eloquent and ingenious speech j
> to the jury, in which he infilled strongly on 1
the circumftmce that his clients, while fct- '
• tling the mode of conveyance, had never
once asked the qucflion whether the (hip
was chartered or general, from whence he
inferred proof of no efTential difference cxift
ing between them. Some other pointswere
ably urged, and he concluded by reminding
the jury of the great importance of this canfe
. to the commerce of the country, and of the
pernicious confequeuce which would result
to Credit, the very life-blood of die (late, if
1 they (hould gi"e a verdift for the plaintiff?,
Before the leading counsel on the other fide
nddrtffed the jury in reply, the judge said,
it was his duty to declart, that he had ne
_ ver known a Wronger or a clearer point' qf
law; that a chartered vefß was indubitably
the particular warehouse of those who char
tered her, and that of Confluence no'peifon
could legally flop or (Tetain any goods (hip
ped on board such vefiel, without permiflicin
of the owners. Upon this a verdift was in
ftantl/given for the plaintiffs, to the full va
lue of the tobacco.
From thisr decision it will become prudenl
for merchants to enquire, whether the (hips
_ which are to convey gsods be chartered or
not, because, had it been a general (hip,
M'Taggart would We understand, have been
juflificd in detaining the tobacco.
LONDON, September 29.
The message of the Direftoiy to the
Councils upon the breaking off of the nego
ciations at Lisle, is a very curious producti
on, it run 3 thus :
" The Executive Direftory informs the
Councils, that the Engli(h Ambassador,
Lord Malmefbury, having seen the failure
of the late conspiracy, 1«a8 thought proper
to retire froririhe republic ; but the Direc
tory declare" they (hall be rtady to make
1 j peace whenever it can be done, confident
with the honour and dignity of the Repub
c lie."
If we may credit a private letter from
Hanover, on the 12 th inft. his Royal High
ness, Prince Adolphus, who at present re
sides in that city, is to be married to the
young widow of the late Prince LouU of
Russia, daughter of the reigning Duke of
Mecklenburg Strelitz, and ncice of her
Britannic Majesty.
Buonaparte left Milan on the night of
~ the 2 2d, and at Roveredo and the other
places through which he passed was received
ii> with much parade. He has deprived many
n ' functionaries of the Milanese tribunals of
e " their offices for imputed incivifm.
The Pacha of Scurati has sent two De
u. puties to the Direftory of the Cisalpine
be Republic, proposing a system for revoluti
lis onizing the Greek idandjt, and other Tur
ki(h provinces : Candia and Morca arc in a
id state bordering on revolt. The propofitioo
>g has been referred to Buonaparte.
Seventy-two infpeftors, and fix comnaift
fioners have bee» appointed at Venice with
r ' unlimited powers to take cognizance of the
a&ions and writings of tTie citizens, one of
whom was arretted on the 22d ult. for givj
ing as hfs opitiion that Venice would be ce-t
ded t» Anting. All the cities in Venetian
Terra Firm* had a conference by deputati
he on at Baflano. After 15 days deliberation
ue it was resolved to demand to be united tq
the Cisalpine Republic,
th Two deputies had in consequence been
be dispatched to Milan, to announce this re
solution, and in the name of 1,200,000 Vt
ra netians require this incorporation. This
deputation had been referred to Buonaparte
whose opinion on the fubjeft was riot known
but will probably be governed in his decisi
on by the Congress of Udina.
»t At Rome a forced loan of 6 per cent.
TS has been levied on all clerical property, to
diminish the circulation of the old paper cur-
rency, the depreciation of which had con
r 'tributed much to the embarrassment of the
State.
'h At Vienna the war tax was announced for
at the ensuing year, and the hostile preparati-
X ]_ ons were uninterrupted ; the Imperial army
V» in Italy had been augmented to 120,0000
r. men —yet these are regarded as measures of
S" precaution, and not considered as indica
a" ting a probability of the prolongation of the
he war -
A mutiny was about to break out lately
id in his majesty's (hip Triumph, in confe
;s ' quence of punishment being inflifted fbr the
of difordcrly conduCt of four of the crew.—
°' The (irinnefs of captr.in ElEngton and the
other officers, supported by the marines,
was, however, effeftual in restoring order.
On the 1 14 th inft. the Prince of Wales
Packet, fell in with the Spani(h prizes un
j_ der convoy of the Viftory, Britannia, St.
George, and a 64 gun (hip offOpbrto, (leer
ing for England, all' well ; so that in a few
! days we may expeft to hear of.tl».c'r fafe I
arrival. to
I A ministerial paper •hatgot up a riJicu- in
) lous story of Rewbellthe French Direftor, J 01
| drubbing Talleyrand Perigord the Minister J o
1 for Foreign affairs, for exprefling an upini-1 f s
j on in favour of peace, fa feverety with a | c
j bundle of papers, ■ that he was obliged to I d
j keep, his bed two days. It is not caff to 1 c
' conceive how the Jourr.alift has reason to I o
, know the : truth of this anecdote. Such | h
' things have been, however. It has been I n
' reported that the King of Great-Britain u- I t
. fed to lici his miniilers for his amufemenl. I t
NEW-YORK, Dec. 2. I j
It 13 tlow. acknowleged in foreign prints]
that the French are at the {bottom of the re- | t
• Gemaniy. Thu3 after aj ,
■ folcpn itjpo'ation in' the preliminaries of ] |
: peace with the fimperor,, that all that coun- I \
' try reftored to the Empire,. the |
. French have fecrctly and perfidioujly contriv- |
t ed to wrest it from the Empire by internal 1
: revolution and independence.
1 It seems by an articlefromWetzlaer, that I
s when Gen. Hoche was ill, the streets had I
t been spread with, litter to prevent noise—l
. and even mechanics were not fuffeied to |
, work for fear of disturbing him. . Surely I
1 j icobins must be very rare and precious arti- I
n cles to deserve all this care. Had a prince I
- been the objeft of such attention, the Au- I
r rora would have given us a column of abuse I
p on the eccafion.
e —r I
One of the princes in the vicinity of En- I
■e glifti eftabfilhmepts in the East-Indies, lately I
g gave the government much -uneasiness, on I
"e account of some military preparations, and I
ie an explanation was requcfted. The Nabob I
It gave'for answer that the English might I
if make themlclves easy ; as he had only been I
t, making an excursion, with a body of ten 1
le tioufantf lyirfa oil a hunting party. j
e- In Ireland, Robert Gore, Esq. was tried 1
ps at Wicklow, for kilh'ng the Earl of Meath
ly in a duel, arictScquitted with
an The Cortict which was seen in this coun
p- try was vlfible also in England and France,
an Citizen Bouvard discovered it Aug. 14 in
a- the arm of Hefcules, moving rapidly from
ra- the earth. On the 26th it was fecn in En
gland, 4 degrees above the star Ophinchi,
nl and it had 70 degrees polar distance. Its
ps right afcention 20 deg. of Sagitarius. Its
or orbit and movement did not appear to cor
[p, respond with those of any comet before dif
en covered.
Mess. Benyon and Page of Shrewfbuty,
England have made an improvement in buil
he ding manufaftories liable to danger from
;o- from fire. They have finifhed a flax fpin
ti- ning mill which is fire proof—the materials
brick and iro'n the floors are arched and
he the beams and pillars of ca(t iron.
>r,
rre ALBANY, November 27.
jer The Mohawk-River is so thoroughly fro
:c- zen as to admit carriages to pass over it with
ke fafety.
rnt Last year the navigation of the Hudson
b- was interrupted 6y the ice the 27th of No
vember-—some vefftls however g»t up after
>m that day—but from the 27th the river wis
•h- wholly closed op by the ice, and did not a
re- gain open until the 15th of March.
he
of WHITESTOWN, November 14.
of v Melanchol'y Accident.
ler We hear from Bloomtield, that on Fri
day the 20th ult. as a Mr. Lemuel Geer
of formerly of Chatham in the state of Connec
ter ticut, was digging in a well at the depth of
'ed 25 feet, the earth fell Jn and buried him to
ny his middle ; Mr. Bloomfield (the gentleman
of f«r whom he was at work) observing his si
tuation,, immediately deft ended, in erd^ 1 to
)e- relieve him; but unhappily just as he reach
ine ed the unfortunate man, he observed a large
iti- quantity of earth giving way, and had only
ur- time to fccure himfelf, which he did by
1 a running up the rope to which the bucket
on was faftened. Mr. Geer was ingulphed
and remainedinthat situation about 20 hours
lift during about 13 of which he retained his
ith feiifes ancf lhe use of speech, begging the
;hc People tp exert themfelv.es, and liberate him
of ifpofiibk ? but as no implements for digg
iv< ing were obtainable,- short of a distance of
cei seven milis, ifflSWe body of earth under
an which he was confined was so great, that
iti- with all poluble exertions, it was not until
on some hours after he was fiippofcd to be dead
to that he was'/ound. '
en ALEXANDRIA, Dec. 1.
re- Yesterday Henry Sinclair, captain of the
Britifh letter of marque Swinger, now in
his this port, was arretted, and imprisoned in the
rte county goal, on suits for dartiages amount
ivn ing to 20,000 dollars, brought againlt him
si- by Stewart and Son, of Baltimore.
The circumstances upon whichtheaftions
at. were grounded were the following • —That
to the ship Atlantic, owned by the above firm,
jr- on her passage from a French port in the
in- Weft Indies to Baltimore, was captured by
he the Swinger, and after being plundered of a
number of articles was ordered to Barbadoes
for for trial. On her passage to Barbadoes, she
iti- was re-captured by a French privateer, and
ny theh ire-takeri by another British vessel and
OO carried into St. Christopher's, where .she
of was finally cleared, but was obliged to dif
:a- pose of her cafgo to pay the coitsoffalvage,
he &c.
One of rlicTuifs is brought for forcibly
:ly plundering the veflcl of part of her cargo—
fej the'other for damages sustained in her de
he tention, capture, &c.
he ST. JOHN, (N. B.) Oft. 13.
es, HORRID MURDER !
er. Wedncfday morning Archibald M'Neil
les was committed to gaol for murdering Mr.
in- Thomas Kitchen, cordwainer—The circlim
it. ftanccs attending thit savage and inhuman
er- aft must shock humanity and make 11s fliud
cvv der at a recital.
M'Neil has for forae time pa't iliovvu fymp- h;
toms of a deranged mind, f>ut, whether our- ft
ing to excess hy drinking spirituous liquors» c<
or other causes, is, perhaps uncertain ; but tl
on'Tuefday night he Ranged through the tt
ffveral streets of this city, tjJJL about one o' I
clock, when lie broke open tht house of the a,
deceafsd, killed him after a long and .cruel ti
cotiteft, plu-tked out his eyes., cut off some n
of his members, let out his bowels, (tabbed, h
him in the pit of the stomach with a shoe- e
maker's knife, which he left immured «ip to a
the hilt, and otherwise. greatly mangled his ]
body. He then took hit eyes &c. and a C
goblet with flowers, and with them again t
paraded the llreets Gaging and wh fl ing. 1
As Mr, Kitchen lived alone we know lit- e
tie further .what pafied between them, or t
tljie particular manner in which Jit .Wled (
him, a black man in the neighaoui-ffp^d,;. 1
fays the fcuffle lasted half an hour arpl up- >
wardsj and what M'Neil himlelf related,
that is : that Kitchen' was undre.Ted, that I
he (M'Neil) attacked hj'm with a stick,
that a hard fcuffle ensued, that the deceased
pulled him by the hair, bit him in the hand :
and hurt os*- of hi 3 eyes—That h:s (M'
Neil's) (lick broke and thereby became
moie convenient for his purpoie, and that
with a piece of it, to use his own exprcffion,
"he worked him up from beloiv" and job
bed" it into his eyes, until wearied and ex~
haufted, he fell back oh hid bed and expir
ed, after which he mahgled his body 3s be
fore defended.
The Coroner's Jury brought in their ver
dift that Thomas Kitftien was wilfully
by Archibald M'Neil.
Much praise is <Jue to Dr. Emerson and
Mr. Francis Watson far their exertions fit
securing the prisoner. He was taken be
-1 fore his worfhlp the mayor, and underwent
.a long examination* when he confefled the
1 faft and related the particulars as they oc
' cured His manner of behaviour was bold
and undaunted, 'and he did not appear to
have any .'ticlination-to conceal any thing re*
1 lative to.t1)« murder.
I M'Neil since his confinement begins to
think a little more rationally—he laments
his unhappy situation, and those who visit
!* him in prison fay his demeanour is now more
• orderly, and he seems sensible of his ap
n proaching fate—he repines at the melancho
n ly part which he has afted, and grieves in
i- tolerably at the distress in wlych he has ih
b volved an aged mother and his wife and fa
s mily.
■s Mr. Kitchen has a family in England,
r- and a considerable property in this cpuntry.
f- His remains were decently, interred yefter
dav morning.
1- CONGRESS.
■n
l- HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Is
d / TUESDAT DECEMBER 5.
Mr. Claiborne moved that the petition
which he j'efterday presented from the in
habitants of Greenville, complaining of the
>- operation of the law relative to distilleries,
h be referred to the committee of ways and
means.—.Agreed,
n Mr. Sitgreaves asked leave of absence for
>- his colleague, colonel Hartley, for eight
:r days, which was granted.
Is Mr. Dwight Foster, from the committee
i- of claims, made a report -on the petitions of
Samuel G. Fowler and Christopher Fowler,
dating that the report made, formerly con
tained a just ftatenient of fafts ; and refer
ring the house to it, they proposed a relo
i- lution denying the prayer of the petition
rr ers. Agreed.
The fame gentleman observed, that in
>f looking over the laws of lall felHon, he foujid
;o that the aft laying a (lamp duty throughout
n the United States, was to take place on
i- the firft of next month. As he nudei'ftood
:o that it would be impofiiblti for the aft to
1- take place at that time, as the ncceflary pro
;e paratior.s could not be effefted.in the inte
y rim, he l)iould move that » committee be
y appointed to enquire whether any and what
rt alterations are necessary to be made in that
d aft.
r» The Speaker fubinitted to the gentleman
is whether this fubjeft did not properly cotne
ie under the duty of the committee of ways
II and means.
;- Mr. D. Foster believed it might, and
would therefore alter his motion to, " Re
:r solved, that the committee of ways end
it means be inftrufttd to enquire whether any,
il See."
d Mr. Macon had no objeftion to the mo
tion, except that he thought it unnecefTary,
as he believed it'wastht duty of the com
mittee of ways and means to aft upon the
ie fubjeft, without any special direftion.
in Mr. D; Foster f»id it was dcfirable that
le something should be done in the business
t- immediately, a 6 notice must be given in all
m the papers of any alteration which may be
made in the aft.
as The motion was put and carried.
»t Mr. Coit moved that the report of the
a, committee of Claims on the petition of
ie Hannah Welsh, made at a former fcfiion, be
y referred to a committe* of the whole house.
a Agreed for rr,ond:iy.
es 'Mr D. Foster said, that a bill paded that
ie house in the ffflion ending in March last,
id feu.t was postponed by the Senate, for plac
id ing certain persons on the ptnfion lift ; he
ie moved that that bill, with the reports on
f-. the fubjeft, be refeired to the committee
e, of daims. •>
The Speaker said the reports might be
y referred ; but the house krieiv nothing of a
bill afted upon at a former ieffion.
Mr. Foster moved that the reports of the
Secietiry of War on the fubjeft might be
referred. Agreed.
The Clerk proceeded to read the remain
der of the documents referred to, in the re
il port of the committee on the fubjeft of W.
r. Blount's coufpiracy.
The next paper came 01" course
in was the deposition of
m-1 mohly called Major Grant; riis evidence
co'nfilled principally of conversation whTch
had-pa fled betvvixljiim as ;LW. t ; i.e
stated that he met with h.m ii> Yv ai •Vgt<>n
county, Virginia, on the nßth of April ;
that they spoke on the fulyjeft oF running
the line between the United States and' the
Indians, and he seemed to \vi(h to avoid
any refponCbility with refpeft to the Indian
treaty ; that W. BJount. mention his pecu
niary embartaflments, but that he said he
had a plan on foot which he expefted would
effe&ua'ly relieve him ; he said Chifholm
and the Indian chiefs had been with the
British Minister at Philadelphia, and that
Chifholm had a plan in the hand writing of
the British Minister, which,if it fticceeded,
W. Blount/aid he fliould have it in his pow
er to serve all his friends.; that he feetned
to place great reliance upon Rogers and
Carey, and upon their inflitenae with
Indians ; he mentioned that an armament
was to be sent from England, which was
t,o. be' co-operated with on the land fide by
him at the head of the Indians. The depo
nent also speaks of having received letters
from Col. King, about the 15th of June,
from W. Blount,,for Carey, which he de
livered, and mentions the conversation which
pafled betwixt them.
Mr. Sitgreaves tools the chair of the
clerk, and said the next,document wgs a pa
per commifnicated to the cjmmittee by the
Chevalier de Yrujo, in French. The com
mittee had not, he.said, 'apy formal tranl'la
tion of it, but he would read it In Epglifh
as perfe&ly as he was able—which he pro
ceeded to do. It was the communication of
a citizen Mitchell, v who states, that there had
been enrolled by an English agent, 'n the
| Western country, iooo.perfons, for the pur
i pose of attacking certain Spanish ports, and
. to go against Louifrana and the two Flori
t das; that Chifholm had a lift qf ijoo to«e8
: who were engaged to take up arms in favor
. of England, that there were formed on.th*
1 Lake 3 jco regular troops, 700 Canadian
I militia, and 200 savages, to at,tack Fort
. EouisJ.that ChiCjiolm bad provided fix piec
es of cannon, the fame which was procured
o for citizen Genet ; that the rendezvoup wes
s to be at Knoxville the id of July ; and
t that after Chifholm had reported the bufi
t ness te the British Minister, he would, si t
i_ out for England, to lay th« projeft befo' e
the British government, and command mc
ney and vessels for carrying it into eiTecL
i- The Chevalier also gave.to the committee
I- a letter which Mitchell had received from
Chifholm. It was a requefj th»t Mitchell
I, and Craig would be in TennefTee in July ;
r. with an assurance that they might rely upon
r _ every thing which )ie said.
The next papers were the evidence of
John Phillipd Ripley and Thomas Odiorn,
■ who were brought forward by the Chevr
lier de Yrujo.
J. P. Ripley states, that he is acjti'zen of
>. New Hampshire ; that he was educated with
Captain Eaton at Yale College ; that capt.
Eaton had told him, that several letters were
n found in the possession of Dr. Romayne,
1- which proved th? BritiGjunimfter to. b* cor -
e cerned in the enterprise contemplated by
», Gov. Blount; that these letters offered re
d wards to any person who would «ngag? in
the service, and th«t thfy were discovered
jr' under some rubbifli ; that many ofDr. Ro
it inayne's papers were destroyed : that capt.
Eaton had told him that Col. Pickering had
e reprimanded him for. having mentioned any
if thing refp-;diug these letters, and had said
r, that Great Britain was now the only friend
1- we had ; that he saw a letter which capt.
r- Eaton had written to Col. Pickering on the
>- subject. On examination by the committee
1- Ripley asserted that he believed that Gneat
Britain was at the bottomof the conspiracy.
n Thomas Odiorn deposed, that he was also
d at College with capt. Eaton, and that capt.
it Eaton had told him nearly the f»me circum-
II fiances which f. P. Ripley deposes to have
d heard from him, He alfio {f»ys, he saw tfce
o letter which the captain had written to cpl.
> Pickering, as an apology for hayingmention
:• ed any thing refpeding the letters found in
le pofftjfion of Dr. Romayne.
it Next follows the evidence of William Ea
it ton, taken at Springfield before Judge Ly
man. He states that Philips Ripley wan
n hiscotemporary at college, and that he had
e (ince been acquainted with him at Philadel
•s phia ; but that he does not khow much a
bout Odiorn. Some time after his return
d from New York, he recollects to have told
s- Ripley that four or five original Tetters of
,:1 Win. Blount were found in Dr. Romayne's
f , possession, at the discovery of one of whicU
he seemed a good deal ernbarraffed. The
>- deponent also told the said Ripley that Mr.
r, Pickering was with him forhav
-- ing mentioned any tiling about these letters,
ic until the matter was laid before the com,
mittee ; but the deponent denies that he e
it ver told Ripley, or that Mr. Pickering ever
fs said to him, " that Great Britain was now
11 the only friend we bad." The deponent
le believes he might have given it as his opin
ion, that the British minister would have en
couraged the plan, if it had been feafibk ;
ic that he had delivered every article refpe&ing
)f the conspiracy of Mr. Blount which had
>e come into his hands to the committee of en.
sr. quiry.'Captain E.iton also fpokeof a French
. engineer having b'een into ali the fra ports<>(
it the United States, in order to make j»lans
I, of, and observations refpefting them.
;- The next paper wis a com man; cation fro ia
le the Chevalier de Yriijo, confiding of an ori
n ginal letter from General Clark of Georgia,
:e. to Murphy, Eiq- coaful oftiis catho
! lie majrily there, in aufwer (o an applica
le tionmade to him on thefubjefl of the co»-
a fpiracy, in which he states « that the pecu
liar nature of the proposition made to him
le byjthe Brit-Mi, prevents him from givingthat
ic fatisfadion which is required ; an applica
tion, lie fays, had beeii made tohim through
1- a channel which bound hiru to silence ; he
;- was asked whether 10,000 dollars would in
ducc him to join the British, but that hehai
rejected the offer with disdain."
!e Mr.- Sitgreave said that all the documents.
1- wliich were of anyimportanee had now been
:c read ; what remained were not worth oca -
h pyiiig the tinii of the heufe toread them—If it were wiA. 1, Ijcf-Vavfitjk tr.Sy might be
gone through.
The Speaker said, that WO-1H be deter
mined on a motion being made for printing.
Mr. Otis rl-.ovjd that the report and doc
uments he printed.
Mr. Davvfon said"there were two depofi
tiofis of James Carey, one before the cßltt'ift
jndge, and another before the committee ;
as one only bad beec read, they did not
wholly agree, he trusted, that both would be
printed. ,
Mr. Sitgreaveij said, certainly all the pa
pers will be printed.
Mr. Dawfoa observed that Mr. Byers had
given evidence, which, though not on oath
he thought entitled to credit, and ought to
be printed, as it corroborated the evidence
of Carey.
Mr. Sitgreaves said, it had been usual
upon extraordinary and important oecafions
to order printed more copies of papers than
the usual number ; he thought this one of
those occafuns, and moved that 600 copies
might be printed, as he supposed the_ addi
tional expence would be inconsiderable—A
greed.
■!-• The Speaker said a communication had
r been received from the commiflioners of the
finking fund, which was ordered
to be printed.
Mr. Nicholas said, it appeared to him,
that when an important objeft was to be ac
complifhed, and Tuch as the house could
form an opinion upon, it was proper to ex
pnefs their sense upon the fubjedt to the
committee app*L.ted tb consider it, left
they might a£t from their own opinion, up
on a contrary bafia, and afterwards have
what they had done reversed by the House.
He thought this course r.eceffary with re
fpeft to the deferred debt.' He wished the
attention of the house to be now turned to
* thisobjeft, as it would be recol'.e&ed that
this fefiion would probably be the only op
portunity they would have of a fair and full
" difctiOiftd of it,- as the next feflion -will as
neceflity be a fliort one, and the following
one willbs too near the period at which re
sources will be wanted, to have the desired
efFe£>. This was, therefore, the time for
making the proper provision, which was
absolutely necelTary, except they were to
incroach upon funds destined for other ob
jects. He, therefore, proposed to the house
aj-efolution to the following effedl :
" Resolved, That the Coipniittee of
Ways and Mfans be inftrufted to prepare
and report a plan for railing a sum which
(hall be equal to fatisfy the demands which
will be made upon thfc Government in the
year 1801, on account of the Deferred
Debt."
The Speaker was of opinion that it was
necessary, if not to move, at least to have
the proposed refolutian difcufled in commit
tee'of the whole. [He read the rule.]
Mr. Nicholas thought the rule had refer
ence to a fpecific Tax. He could refer to a
precedent vrhere the course recommended
by the Speaker was not taken. It was the
resolution requiring the Secretary of the
Treasury' to prepare and report a plan for
laying a Direst Tax.
Ttfe Speaker was doubtful whether the
resolution's proposing to inllruft the com
mittee of ways and means, took it out of
the rnle.
Mr. Coit hoped the resolution would lie
upon the table till to-morrew —Agreed.
Mr. Coit presented the petition of cer
tain inhabitants of Conne&icut, officers of
the Diftri£i Court of the United States,
praying for an alteration in the time of hold
ing the said courts. Referred to a feleA
committee.
Mr. Williams prefentcd the petitiort of
Azar Bagley, a soldier in the lately war,
prayiflg for reflitution on account of a certi
ficate which had been received by means of a
forged power of Ittorney. Referred to the
committee of claims.
Mr. Harper, from the committee ap
pointed to ptepare and report a bill for the
relief of AntoniaCarmichael, reported a bill
which was twice read and ordered to be
committed to morrow.
Mr. Otis presented a petition from Isaac
Stevens, late a prisoner at Algiers, which
states the hardships the petitioner had expe
rienced ; that during his long absence from
family and home, his property had been
foade away with, his wife had been obliged
to go out to service, "and his children had
been dispersed, his own health impaired, and
that he was now obliged to fublift upon cha
rity ! He prays for some aid which may
soothe the decline of his life. . Referred to
the committee of commerce and manufac
tures.
Mr. W C Claiborne presented the petiti
on of James Grant, of Knoxville, dating,
that in pursuance ps a procefi issued by a
Committee of that House, he and his pa
pers were seized on the 28th of la ft July ;
that he was in custody 65 days, at the ex
piration of which, he was discharged, at the
distance of 700 miles from his own home,
from whence he had been dragged by mili
tary force, to the great negleS ofhisbufi
nef3. He prays to be placed, at least, in as
good a situation as he was found. He
reckons 20 days for his retHrn home, which
added to 65, make 85, and hopes he shall
be allowed »ve dollars a day: for, as he has
"been guilty of no offence, he trusts he (hall
pa unpuftiihed—Referred to the Committee
of Claimsj
' M r . ' Harper tailed for the order of the
day on the* report of the committee of claims
on the petition of Henry Hill, which was
agreed to, and the Heufe according went
into a committee of the whole on the fub
je£V, Mr. Dent ill the chair.
This fubjedt has been frequently before
the House, in different (hapes, and has oc
cupied much of its time. The petitioner,
Henry Hill; is ;the administrator of Mr.
Miller, the administrator of Mr. Banks,
whose name has often been before the
1 lonfe, paiticularly in the settlement of the
tlaim of the widow of General Greene.
It appears, from an investigation ot fafls,
that the United States, in their Recount
with John Ba'ika, Imj ft double credit for
the fame sum of 9768 cfolktrs/ it being cre
dited to them in the quarter-mailer's de
partment, and'allp deferred ouNof the bal
ance due to John Banks, on hi*) contra£t
account; and,-irbeing nn established role
at the Treasury, not to open accounts for a
new settlement, which has once been ad
jured 'by the proper officers, the Treasury
Department have refufed to re-fettle this
account.—Mr. Hill prays for this balance,
—The Committee of Claims are of opinion
that it would be improper for them to deter
mine who are the a&ual of equitable repre
sentatives of John Banks, so far as refpetts
this balance; the right of the claimants, in
cafe of controversy, may receive a judicial
determination. It is fufficient that the bal
ance hi placed to the credit of the perfo'n to
whom it belonged on the 3 1 ft of Decembev
178J, when the* sum wa3 retained out of
Banks's payment; That Committee, there
fore, submit the following resolution to the
consideration of the House :
" Resolved, That the accoanting officers
of the Treasury caufethefumofg,76B,Bl-90
Dollars, charged to the confradt account of
John Banks, on the 31ft Day of December,
1783,10 be credited to the said John Banks;
and* that the sum so credited, to the account
of fucfi other person as, in their opinion,
(hall be ju'ftly chatgeable therewith."
Mr. Harper,' Mr, Foster and Mr. Find
ley urged an agreement to this refolntiou.
Mr. Coit proposed to amend it, by adding
a clause of the following effedl: "And that
they charge the account of the said John
Banks with the money paid by the United
States to the executors of General Greene,
on acuount of the debts of the said John
Banks, or John Banks and Co. bailed and
secured by the said General Greene."
After considerable discussion, Mr. Otis
moved that the committee rife, in order to
have the fubjeft re-committed,- that farther
fa&s may be stated. This motion produ
ced also considerable debattj, a detail of
which we suppose would be uriinterefting to
our readers. At length the iommittec
rose, and being refufed leava to ,fit again, a
motion was made to recommit the report to
the'committee of claims'; when Mr. Otis
moved an inftru£ti<tn to the committee to
the following effefk: " to report a statement
of faft» relative to the demand which the U
nited States may hive upon the balance in
question, on account of indemnifying ths
estate of Gen, Greene, as surety for the
said Banks."
This inftru&ion to the committee, after
some debate, was agreed to.
Adjourned.
* # * No Mails had arrived when this
Paper went to Press.
A stated meeting of the Philadelphia
Society, for the information and afiiftance
of persons emigrating from Foreign coun
tries, will be held To-morrow Evening, 6th
inft. at 6 o'clock at the College in Fourth
Stree —Pundiual attennance is particularly
requested.
THOS. L. BRISTOLL, Sec'ry.
For Sale by the Subscriber,
10 bales Coir.is
40 do. Baftas
11 do. Mamoody •
17 do. Chirtz
7 do. Tookery
a do. Goraht
i S do. Mora<unge«i
3 do. Check Stripes
I do. Guzzic
1 box Diapers
7 do. Umbrllas
iS pip« fineft particular Madeira Wine, of
the vintage r ->of.
MORDECAI LEWIS.
e. iaw4w
Geenteel Boarding &. Lodging.
A Family may be accommodated with a Draw
ing Room, two Bedchambers, and fuitab'e
accommodation for servants—at no. 53, north
Fourth ftreel.- Dro. 5 —*tts
The City Dancing Assembly,
Is unavoidably postponed till the 14th
Dec. 4.
Uruh Smith,
1
No. ao, north Third street—has for rAir,
A neat and general aflortraent of
Broad Cloths,Kerfeymeres,Napt
and Drab Coatings. also,
A variety of Gcntlcmens' faihionablc fancy Walft
coatirg, silk Hosiery, &c. ..
December ;■ Vod*-w
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, about 400 weight, in
•;ood condition, and would answer the purpose of
I \ country printer as well as new.
Enquire of the Printer nov 30.
Musical Inftrumetit ManufaElory,
167, Arch-street.
TO THE LOVERS OF HARMONY.
HARPER,
INFORMS his friends and the public", that he has
now ready for sale, a few of his new invented,'
and much admired fide beard Piano Fortes, with
Pedals,patent l'well, fonopahant French harp
(lop, whfch for sensibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, (implicit) and durability of the
fsperiority of whichjic flatters himfelf, a single tri
al will convince thu unprejudiced juilg-—As they
arc manufaflured under his immediate infpeition,
of the vry befeafoned materials, he can fell on
reasonable terms for Cash. Inflrumonts repaired,
tuned, &c.
N. B. Second hand Piano Fcrtts taken in ex
change for new.
mvrmler 18. lawjmo.
IMPORTED
IN the fbip Aurora, from Hamburgh, and for
fale'hy the Subferiber.
Bed ticks, 8 4, 9-4. and 10-4.
A quantity of T'apes, Nn. 13 and 15.
/'rid on Hand,
German black Ribbon, No. 3 and 4.
George Pennock.
novemb»r ai ;,avviw
Wanted, to Hire,
A I arge and convenient HOUSE, in or ne;r
the Tentreof the city—for >vhicn a generous
rent, will brgiven; to be taken for a year, or cn
more for a longer term. Inquire of ths Printer.
C<3. 17. " « otf
■- r ■ 1
PHII.A DELPHI A,
FVFM-JG, nECRVTSj-R 6.
DONATIONS
Received by thf Corrirr.iffi<iners, appointed
td relieve the dillreFfd citizens of Phila
delphia and SnbuiLs. Continued from
28th. Nov. Dlls. Cts.
From the inhabitants of upper
Dublin Township, Montgomery
County, by the hantls wf Jacob
L likens. G2 34
From the inhabitants of Coneftogo
Towufliip, Lancaster Count), *
manufaftured at' "\Veti
gtr's, and Ehrbach'3 'MtIH, btfs.
Wheat and Rye Flour. if
From Charleston Township, Ches
ter County, manu/aiftured at A
braham Haldiman's Mill. 6
Lancaster ToVvnfhip and CoUflty,
by Michael Rine's Waggon. 5
Leacock Township, Lancaster
v Coiinty, forwarded by Ptter
Eckart delivered to John Smith
oveifeer ofthe Poorthrough tnif
' take and by him sent to the
Board 2
EDWARD GARRIGUS, Secy.
Dec. 6. 1797.
On Friday the ijl of December the St. An
drew's Society of Philadelphia, met to celebrate
their Anniversary at Oeller's Motel (St. An- j
drvuis day being a fajl day ly order of the ■
Synod of Ptnrfyl-ania, under yjhofe jurifdill
ion many of the members lived.')
The following gentlemen were eleSed officers
for the enfiing year.
The Rev. IVm. Smith, t). D.— Presi
dent.
'James Craig, Esq. Wm. M' Phtrfori, Efa.
Vice Prcfdints. - ,
Thomas Ewing,
IVilliam P. Tod, Secretary. L t , f
AJJiJiants.
Robt. Smith, Wm. Toung, Robl. CampbcN,
James M' Alpin, Andrew Spence, John- Mc.
cauley.
At four o'clock the Society, with the princi
pal officers of the St. George's, Hibernian &
German Society, fat down elegant dinner
provided for the occasion which the
following toajls were drank, and the Company
spent the evening in perfeS harmony and con
cord.
1. The Immortal memory of St. Andrew.
2. The Land of Cakes.
3. The People, the Conjlitution and conflic
ted authorities of the United States.
4. The Prejident of the United States.
5. George Washington.
6. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
7. The Powers friedly to America, through
out the World.
8. The St. George's Society.
9. The Hibernian Sonify. ,
10. The German Society.
11. All Charitable Socieiies ; May the
means of their bounty keep pace with [the benevo
lence of their intentions.
12. Peace, Freedom and Happintfs to all
mankind. . ,
IJ. Scotchmen and Scotchmen's bairns, and
all who like to lay in Scotchmen's arms.
14. Honefi Lads and Bonny Lqffes.
IJ. The Beggar's benifori.
16. The America Fair—May every Sqn
of St. Andrew pay due tribute to (heir merit.
Married on 7"hurfday evening lajl ly the
right Rev. Br. IVhite Mr. William Mur
dock, Marchant. to Mrs. Mary Ripton, both
of this city.
From the Aurora.
" WJiin rlie well-Upm Duke of Brsintree un!l
t»> again disposed tc. puff himfelf and hi* three vo
lumes of trumpery and dollnrfi, wfc'ch are now
felling from the booV-ftills in l.ondun for waste
paper, it may be a question of decerny wLether
he had not hcrter cause famebody else than him
felf to undertake the 'aflc. Vide hV: letter to the ]
Bifbop of Norwich, re-publithed trom the Boston j
Centiscl in M'l.ean'i paper (of N'wYctk)of
the *.< d ult. and which is ptfitiv/ly hown to have i
proceeded from the modest p<.n of the Duke hitu
felf. OBSKRVATOR. 1
remarks.
There are many article» pultlifhed in the Auro- J
ra which are so monstrously ridiculnuv and so j
palpably falfe and absurd, th«t they rarry their .
own refutation to every ijitelfyjcnt rtfder. '
Theabove article however exceed* in impudence C
the general teaer of the abuse voiiiitted forth by c
the author of " thcHrftory of the United States." c
Injvfticc to the public, the «ditf+ thU Atirora,
or the authcr of rhe p«rag;raphi is therefore bound
to produce proofs of what he therein asserts to be
pofitivety tr.nvn"—lf he noes not, he,will richly
ms tit, if he does not already wsar, the
of a calumniating aflaQin.
The information in the ahoVO paragraph relative
to rbu bonks in queflion is totally falfe. I new c
edition of theDehnceof American Qonltitu- '
tions has lately been published in London—The c
work has been twice translated and published in
France—and the lite elegant edition by Mr. Cob- j
bctt met with a rapid sale. It may be further ad
ded, that the framers of the present eonftiturior.
of France, in their report to the conventi n. paid
the highell compliment to the " DAnce of the t
American Conftitbtion* of government"—and if
that conllitution Ihould 6nally fail, it will be ow-
ing to its departure from the fmple and eternal prin
ciul.'i in Mr. Adams's work. "
V
MR. FENNO, 11
That the old adage " dodors will differ" ''
applies as well in Europe as in America the
following may (hew— P
When DoAor Letforo by dint of indus- c
try had wormed himfelf into a great part of c
the praftice which becaoie vacant en the 1
death of the celebrated Fothe'rgill, one of
his rivals wrote the following couplet in
burlesque of the do&or'i known inattentions P
to orthography, &c. a
u My patience all, I bleeds ana fweU-'eoi,
" And if they dies, why then—l LISTS 'EM." *
r
TO CORRESPONDENTS. H
*#* We havi perused the pi-ce signed t
" AsofiiEß Subscriber," and are ofo- 1
pinion that the controversy so far as it res- I
pests a newspaper publication, had better r
remain in its present filuation. ' 6
I? GAZETTE MARINE LtST
_________ r
FORT OF PHILADELPHIA. f
'Li- !
Arrived. days.
i. Ship F.n'r American, Tread well, London 70
John, M'Neal, A mllerdarn 125
BsrqOic Mars, Fowler, St. Übes 6$ j
■ d Brig Twins, Keeler, St. Croix 30 J
a- Eliza, O'Connor, C. N. Mole 30 !
m Welcome Return, Labbree, Sa- j ,
s. ' [vsnna. 19
Schr. Nancy, Burnet, do. 19
Polly, Willis, Alexandria 19 1
Hannah, Phippen,- Salem 13
;4 Adventure, Sadler, Wiridfor, N.s. 25 ;
Frances, Tupnian, Virginia 33 t
John, Lambert, dc. 24
Bdffey, States, North Carolina 22 .(
CLS Alt ED. (
States fchr. Humdallah, Montgomery, 1
Algiers {
Harmony, Duncan, N. Carolina t
Packet, Bowen, Snowhill t
Sloop Industry, Hall, do. 1
The ship Mary, Patton, arrived at the
Fort, had a paflage of 24 days from the j
Havantiah. Left there the brig Gratitude, \
Clifton,.of and for this port, to fail in 5 r
days. The ship Superb, Boyd of this t
port had failed for Hamburgh. The brig f
Sally of New.York is arrived at the Fort, j
y. from Curacop, put in, in distress, leakyand
short of provisions.
Capt. Keeler, left at St. Cro'x, the 4th I
1- ult. the brig Brandywine Miller, Culver, t
te 1 of and for this part, to fail in 4 days. e
1- J Capt. Willis from Amsterdam, further
he informs, that the day he left the Texel, 3 ]
I- American snips came in, but could not learn
their names. j
rj Capt. M'Neal, of the John, spoke off t
Cape May on the 26th ult. the brig Mary, (
Q- Hutchir.fon, out 12 weeks from Amsterdam, ;
, in distress, having sprung a leak three weeks <
before. ,
The /hips Niger, Thomas, for Port-ati- j
Prince ; Brothers, HendcrfoQ for A m l ;r " <
t'am, and fevnal others, went to f?3 on \
Friday last. I
'/, Capt. Treadwell, as the Fair American, ,
r. failed from Plymouth, the 23d Sept. in :
company with the brig Eliza, Harrington, |
1- of and for this port, from Aoiftertjam, and <
3* parted ttie fame night. The Ganges, Lang- (
•r ford, of New-York ; and Orion, Kinning- j
ic ham, of Boston ; both from Londen for (
1/ Madeira. 0&. 20th, spoke the brig Dref- ]
j- den, out 31 days from Liverpool to Eden- |
ton. Nov. 15th, lat. 29, 35, long. 69, j
>. W. spoke the Alliance of New-York, out 1
48 hours, from New-York to Havre ; all 1
»- well. 16th, spoke in lat. 39, 30, long, j
70, spoke the ship Grand Turk, Magee, <
out 230 days from China, for Boston, all |
well. 25th, Cape Henlopen, N. N. W. 1
i. 25 leagues, spoke tl)e Hoop Betsey, Barn- (
J- et, of Foly Landing, out 2 days, for Phi
ladelphia, in distress, having been blown off
the coast, loft his water off deck, split his j
fails, &c. Captain T. sent his boat on board (
p.nd supplied his wants. : (
he Bcjlon, Nov. 28. ' c
5- Lift of prizes at Halifax, Nov. 14, fur- j
nifhed by Mr. Dungan. Ship Rebecca, of
til Newburyport, condemned ; ship Indian t
Trader, Hovey, from Cayenne, for Ealti- 1
d more, waiting trial ; fehr. Telegraph, Cur- ]
ry, from the Havanna for Philadelphia, do- 1
brig Pomona, Crocket, from do for do.
Arrived at Plymouth, on Sunday,, fchr. )
1 n Gov, Carver, capt. Spooner, 46 days from (
. Bcurdeaux. Sailed in company with fchr. |
Aftrea, Macey, for Gloucester. t
e Spoke, Oft. 13, lat. 45, long. 17, brig j
- Rulhy,Siinonds, 19 days from Amsterdam
b for Boston. Nov, 23, '25 leagues E. of t
Gloucester, brig Zephyr, , 7P days J
from Hamburg.for Boston. Paffengcr.capt. ]
Thomas Seward, m. ftcr of the Ship Fair r
I American, capturcdby the French, after- ; r
wards re-captured by the Englilh, and car- (
* ried into one of their ports. Left Aurora, f
r Woodman, Charleston ; , Theresa, Boyle, c
1- Baltimore i , Beudbridge, Philadel- 1 1
e phia ; Thomas Wilson, do. , Peter- i r
J fon,.do; Huron, Brown, New-York,; j j
Abigail, Rea, do ; Ann, Fifhw, do ; ; ; ;
. Wellington, Graham, do. prize, cargo j f
condemned, vessel acquitted ; Britannia, ! c
Young, N. Yarmouth ; Bernard, .Nantuc- 1 a
ket ; Ober, Beverly ; Samuel, Russell, ' v
Marblebead, to fail in-a few days ;
Prior, Boston ; Wafli i ngtan, ,L'u.nmngham, v
do, for LondoQ ; Aikius, do ; Nan- m
cy, Lebufquet, do ; Ffaji k in, Weft, Wif- j '
caffet ; Hope, Wheelwright, Portsmouth.
FROM A LONDON PAPER.
THE COMET.
(Lalinde —Journal de.Faris, Aug.i6.)
The comet discovered August 14, by
citizen Bouvard is rapidly removing from r>
the earth. It is now in the arm of Her
cules, and in a few days will be hardly vifi- N
ble.
ExtraS of a letter from Mr. Capel Loft, dat- 1
cd Frojlon, in Suffolk, Aug. 26. c
" The comet i 3 still difcernable. At b
eight hours, 53 minutes this night it was a- C
bove a Ophinchi, with 4 deg. greater altitude
than that star ; the comet being 50 deg. 5 ®
min. It had 73 deg. polar distance, and j.
was very near an unnamed star, from which
it was palling S, E. Its right ascension 20 tc
> deg. of Sagitarius. F
. " Though a comet might be fatal, and
perhaps one time will (a cornet may have
caused the deluge, and may cause the final n
r conflagration) there seems reason to believe
that generally they pass too far from us to 1
• have any feniible effeft : and when they
have any, it is probably beneficial. I fuf- r ;
1 ' pe£l (but this is my private apprehenlion, i
and of no authority) that the prefeut com
et has been very near the earth's place in r:
the orbit, and that it is of no inconsiderable if
magnitude. It seems manifeft that comet w
might affeft both our atmofphtre and our
[ tides. c:
■ ! "At present I have no more to add, than "
that it dc»s not seem to be any comet, the ir
return of whijth has been prediAed. Tha
of 1680 had its period computed 5 75 years
I « ' .
that of 1661 had lire eg evidence for a pc
j noj afiljrrteJ from the .iieory and otafcfVa-
I tion of 129 years, and perhaps passed
; iervei, in the loUthera hemiiphere j that ( t
1602 seems to have returned in j rfrtd
I do not find any ct?met, in the talks, tl,---
lements of which appear nitich tocorreipnul't
. with what has bfenhithtfttc aborted
"If it fl.all lie seen to pass the Eslfplic,
or b? re-confpictious after f„,
a .time, s will have a better fiji-i
port Linfty of judging of it. I have <lO cLun
to that title ; but am metely an obferfrer of
nrture.and a revercr of those wonders which
1 fee, and of that infinity of Wonders which
is beyond the fight and imagination of crea- 1
ted beings.
" The path of the comet feerris to lie in
-such a direction, that if it is seen to
tne Ecliptic, go over a portjoi' i
the tn'lly <uiny. There, according to its p,
sent appearance, it tnuft (for a time at It;. ' 1
become invisible. It is with great difficul
ty to be seen now with a telescope which
has much light.
" Allow me to remark, that this iriftatJctf
proves how desirable it would be that those
who have the advantage of the flrft discove
ry could immediately eommimieate it for'
the benefit of the science, and for the gratis
ficat.on of a laudable, and, X hope, increas
ing cyrioilty in the public."
Another letter, dated Augufl 2y (
" Sir, since I wrote to you, there has'
been no opportunity of observing the com-r
et ; Indeed if there hsd, I fear it is no long
er vVithin re ch of telescopes from this planet,
"In looking into Hevelius and Halley,
I think I have found reason for a conjecture,
which I submit with great doubt and de
ference to the judgment of ailronomers—>•
that probably this comet, which at its hi t
obfervatioa was either retrogade or station
ary, with refpeft to the equator (as is the
cafe with comets in returning from' the fun
when the earth lies between then/ and 11> 1
fun), and had ndvanced little in polar di:'
ance, probably came lo its perihelion aboi'
the end of June, wften invisible to to us
this time of the year, being then among »
constellations of the font hern hemifplu . ;
I and that it passed it» afccndiag rrodc, i:i nr."-
th» end of Gemini, Ibme few days before
was observed, and was, when firit difepver.':,
crofling a part of the earth's orbit, nd h "
passed codiderably near the earth' place ■
| during which part of its prog'refs it "v. :
bright, and its apparent diameter confid-. ra.
ble ; that its perihelion probably lies v.
in about 8-tenthi of the earth's diltance from
the fun ; and that perhaps our pofteritv
may again fee it, at an Kra of remoteness,
indeed hopeless to the present race, when .
compared with the duration of human life ;
iince if these suppositions be well founded, it
will be no other than the comet of. 165;,
described and delienated by Hevelius."
The Ladies must beware of mingling in
politics, if they woald retain any pretend
ons to be treated with that politeness which
I Chivalry once inspired,—Take the decifioit
of a gallant Parisian Cafuifl on this import
ant question :
" In the ancient Chivalry the refpedl fur
the fair sex was carried even to adoration,
nor even then was it carried too far. It is
known, however, that when a lady ceafeil
to place herfelf under the protection of war, -
tiers, in order to become a champion her
felf, the brave Knights did not push their
complaisance so far as to allow themselves tfy
be killed by fair hand. They enftred
the lifts and encountered her with all the
grace and civility imaginable.
" Let us follow their example. Let in
not mingle in our*political quarrels thofs
Ladies whose claims belong to all parties.
But why should we refpeit the political vi
ragos, the Orleanift intriguers, if ft hey df>
not refpecl themselves ? Let u« talk of Ma
dame Lillien as a pretty woman; with.this
fhc could not be offended. Let us speak
of Madame de Stael as Marat; if she thicii
; it worth while she will amend; if (he doer,
J not, file will add this feature to the other
| points of resemblance which she bears h:-r
, patron. A v.oman who hascompofed ihn -
j f°dies on the influence of the pafilons, fhqnM
; calculate the passion which malt be inflamed
j against her by a ftranger(Ben. Constant,)
who has come among us to shake the tot
of difpord in a family already too murh di
vided."
JUST RECEIVED, -via
And lIOMT npenuiu . by i,ECRGE DOBSON, No.
2.5, foutii Third street
An extenfivs and general assortment ft?
HABERDASHERY, viz.
Ecft London mixt Pins Galloons and Ferrer*
Li-uimon do. do. Worfled Bindings,afibr-
Mainnzie'sfuptr,patent ted colours
white cbipei N.edles Imperial, diiper, an-1
Nuns Thrmd no. 6 to Thread T»oe6
40, regularly aflorted Vf hire Edging!
Lisle do.no. 1;o to .sco, Black nd coloured CU
regularly alforted mfe Ribbands
Coloured do. Sattin and figured do
Biack fewiug Silks BiackVelvet, i-a to I*4
Coloured do. and Twill Velvet St. pelon Sartins
Silk and cottrn Hires French Cambrick
Do. do. Ribbindi Scutch do.
.'hirt McuHs and Wires F'iain gilt and pir.-'-cl
Black bruft Feathers Buttons
And a affbrtinent of G»ods, fuitj '?
to the pr-lcnt and approaching season, at reducwf
pric< Hec 6. f
HKOPUbI'I 1(J1\.
A hardfeme and ronmy ln:ufe, with a 4vi'.! -
ty of good land, v. i-hin ale w miles of tin-t. ».
A Hcufe in an eligible Cmatioß, and
Lots in the city
A v»bable body of Land cnthe ?ivef Chio.
nlfo, mic-y tr.eis cf fii.e Lands (mitititf
rights) lyi.-sg near the Ohio, en die Miami . 1..1
Sioto Rivers
1 itles ate all clear, and will be made with ml
excrptiotiable feenrity.
A r fident cf this city is desirous of escJ-.rnz
ing tl is property for Goods—Ead ©r Well i ula
would be pce erred.
If the specie va'ueof those Lindaßt a di'U ::...
cannot aftertained fitisfadorily, they f 1 a-.- \ 5
ia ed at such a price as the purchaser r.y i , -
•I: his optiein to reiurn- them at tne fixed pric. v., *h
interest. at th? e>p'ir»tjon c! twelve «r_o;r..'«.
I'ot CJ left witk the tdkar fljall t.e itesi ,c ■_
fA peifon well acquaiated with I T
thichcory bo'.i.-.sVen | pgg
"Bianyyearscngigedinbiirinefslorh.mfJ! anci.othcr , p u ij[;,.j
would he gla.! to be employed, either as ..11 an O;Fk
or faflor ; or in polling books ; ,j- je p ur
accounts ;or in executing any other kmc. 0. writ- q 0 lim ;
ins, in French or Englilb. _ (Jandio
A note addressed to J. A and left at this o.Tice, Hc flat
will H -unaually attended to. this co}
wtr I cictr. w
— 7* ~ may pi
To the Inhabitants of tke United any of.
States. nth
SINCE of medicine, none has ev- jjy
er proved so uftenifhingly eflicacVoun, so u 1-
verfatly eftecmed, or to which the afflicted wnn «
Kheumatifras,. Gout, Rheumatic Gout, Lumbago,
Palsy, Sprains, Bruises and Chilblain", may look j .
for relief with so much confidence, as
Whitehead's ejfence of Mujlard.
This extraordinary Medicine very soon affords
the wifhM for relief, " even to the ?ged in cales
we most desperate." For these fubftanual reasons j
it is patronised by all ranks of people in England. C
From the gicat number of communications con- j.
flantly received by Mr. Johnston, he is underlie /
ntce(Tity (in laying tbent before the world; ot a- \
bridging their contents; the following lettters (al- :
rhoogh curtailed) are so very important, and the s
fter.atures so very refpeiftable, that he conctiives he L
fTould be doing injuUice to Wbittbead'i «i £
MufiurJ, were he to withhold them from puDlic in-
IpeSion.' '
—— ntv
J.etter from Mrs. Mflls, Hou'ekeeper to the Duke - ,
of Cumberland.
, S ; r) Nov. 1, 179 J. For e
A mio'ft inveterate Rheumatism and Lumbago -yi 2
(occcafioned by laying in a damp bed when at ; Book
- Pruff.ls, in the suit of Her Royal. Highness the | ftr
Dtitchefj of Cumberland) k?s affliflld me eighteen lto
yeari. I have employed the firfl medical gentle- Jo
men m 1-ondon, and (although 1 derived no tene- gc
fit) am bound t« acknowledge my gratitude to le- j a
vera! of the nobility, who knew my depU>rab.c tl- j ndi ,
tuatio.i, and humanely sent mc their pbyucians ; 1 d
have aifo tried most advertised medicine:. At . chin|
lenp tl , fir, after eighteen years eicrucianng,
tenure, a few bottles of your Wbiuhtad, E/.nc
tf Mvjkr.i, hsve. I thank God, reftorec me to the P
meUimable blessings ot heajtli and peraiane.'-t cafe.
Yours, mech obliged,
No. i34,Jermyn-areet,St. James's. S. MILLS frort
Copy of n lettcr from G. Counttfs,cfq■ Cajtain of Obi
I lis Maiefty'B Ship the Dedalus.
c| ri Spithead, Nov. 8, 179S*
As"l expefl to fail in a few days, I bc gT° u , w '!'
immediately -forward me a d.zen of IfWW'
M.ncc of MuPori. It -gives me confiscable fatit- -H
---faSion to mfprm you, I have myfelf experienced ftati
its ffood cffeAs, and have in frvcral lnftaiKes ot two
Rhcumatifms, Sprains, and Eruifes, witnessed i.s of ti
aSanilliing efficacy. 1 think you would confi.lt on
your «>wn interest by appointing it to be fold at oc l
Portfnjoutli, and all other feapJrts ; for you may /
reft afiured, when this invaluable fpdcific becomes g y£
t generally known, not an Officer in Hia Maje y s
tlavy will gi'to sea without it. ing
"Yours, &c. s dav
G. COUNT£96. y ll
Sir
A fever* flroke t,f the Palsy, fix months ago, de
pr.ved me- of. my fcecch, and the'uXeof one fide, ,
In this Iffpei-a:e situation, WUuUats Effect oj ,
Mujtvd. wa, Vfry flrongly recommended, and,
thank God nsfucecfsfully applied. By perfevenng ij
in its use a ftiort time, I was completely .restored L>
and continue to enjoy the full ?nd .ufe of L
my faculties, although near eighty Ph
No. 14, Aribella-rew, P-imlico.
* » Mr. Francis has held a public fitnatton st Tt
the Guildhall 'in the city of Weftminiter, many
years, an 1 U well known te the generality ot the v
refpe.slab!e inhabitants. 1
> oh
Letter from A. McCan El'q. Capt. of the 60th re- no
fiment,dated Fort George, Guernsey, lr
Sir Jan. 4s 1797 .
Uf'warcs of bve years pad 1 have been affiled
with a mott violent Vlhenmatv: Affeflion in my
hea I, v. Uh has baffled the bill of the most cm.-
nent P'nylieians; Tome months since \ was 'nd"« d
to try your lVhitsbcad's ZJfence ./ Mujtard 1 am
Low happy to inform you, it has done me effenua
fer vice, and I think it ncceffary tq -dare, no other
medicine ever gave me »he/mall«Ji degree ot rebe .
1 am with regard, yours, &c. «c.
Cap.- 60th Regt. __ A. McCAN, W
August, 179 5 :
Mr. Middleton, ef Chefterfield-ftreet, St Ma
ry le-bone wasfo severely afflia«d with the_Rheu
matic Gout, as to be unable to move :* my bedfor
fixmonths; his l.mbs were enormonfly fwelkd a"d
at length ftom ixceffive pam became quite black.
. In this ri.ftrefiing situation he J« ,n " ad o
your ivbiubtad's of Mufard\ th- esseS far
exceeded the most t'anguine cpeAat.on his pam c
was immediately alleviated, and his limb, returned f
to their natural colour ; bis appetite restored, and c
in a very short time he was enabled to eave his bed 1
and walk with crutches; and by a few weeks per
severance, was completely restored to the full cp- ]
P his son. repeatedly !
called as he got better, on Mr. Jchnfton, and de
clared that his life was utterly defpairtd of.
Refpe&ed Sir, Nov
Paffme by a croud, in, the fifth month of her
pregnancy, my wi!e received a dreadful blow on
Lr fid--, which apparently destroyed the life of the
infant; after the most fkilful adv.ee, and try.ng
various rcmedie, for two months, ffie ft.U found
the symptoms increafeto an alarming
ri-i'T of biood —fhortaefs of breath- and other dif
, aJeeabk circumstances appeared ftom so violent a
hiu.fe, afforded only the fatal appearance ot her
fpeedydiffalution. Ajfr»endto whom I reland
her fad Cafe, having experienced great benefit from
your Whitehead't Efcncof Mujlard, kindly P re . fe "'"
id me with a bottle ; to my unspeakable fatisfac
tion, it fpedily relieved her from pain ; a lecond
bortie has removed every difagreeablc ymptom,
and with the most heartfelt gratitude I iMormjoa
we have ie happy prolpeft ot her long continuing
•**» Hrri™™" stsuoca.
Whitmore's row, Haxton.
It is prepared (only) and fold, in Pills and in a
Fluid state, at one dollar each box or bottle, by
R. Tounston, Apothepry, no;*©, Grick street,
Soho, London ; and is all.) fold
mcnt, whole sale *nd retail, by G. SH AW , UT Lo.
no. li 9 , Chefnut-ftreet, Philadelphia who have
iuft received a large quantity, per the William
Penn, and to whom, persons desirous of vending,
are desired to apply.
CHILBLAINS.
IVbiHbc"?* Ejfence of cures
Chilblains aud common Rhcumatifms, on the ftrlt
or second application, and often removes the most
violent Sprains and BruiteS, in two or three cays.
CautJ— A Certificate is paftpd on ea.li fcottl,
and box, and to prevent the danger of counterfeit,,
another certificate is aifo figaeabyG. Shaw &Co.
° f Juaw' &S''have also imported by the William
Pe „n a quan'ity of Gov,land'* Lotion-for the face
and skin—Balsam of Honey for coughs. a.Amas
a" 1 consumptions -Church's Cough Diops, and a
variety of other Patent Medicines.
i-.t!*pr "i C .
r HOM AS K Ai- q ana
PRESENTS h'nrcfp'efl to hisFritnds, arid the IV theS
Public in general, iaformsthem that hetasop-ftn UAM Atl
an Office, athishoufc, No- 28. Sp/ucc lire /I, or feir C trm r '
:he purpose of tranfaAing bulin-J.s in the line cl maJe> h :
Go.nmiflion and Agency, bhek reft
(landing claims in any part ot the public n .1
Ho fiatrcMli.mfeif, that from bis wng "[ ld - c - / r.ot pay a
this count, y and a.general knowledge ot i,, h.» - - Any pcrf[
Cic«, will he found worthy the nonce o. thoft who ;
may please to eorfide to him the management of
any of their concerns. . . away at tl
Is- B. Security given where retuurc i. and lodgi
llthmoi4_ * _ him agWi
FOR SALE, chargesp
By the Subscribe*, at his Store, No. 75, South
Water-ftrect,
A general afforunsnt of China
4.. Ware A <
Mack and coloured Sattins
Do. do. L*teflrWg« /V ~
Do. d# Handkerchiefs x f-
Do. do. sewing Silks
Imperial Jind Hyson 1 east
Long and (hort Naskeens
Quick Silver, in tub«
Holland Gin, ia pipes A fev
Adored Olafs Ware, in cases pieces of
White and brown. HavannaSsgars, in boxes and fom
MoUffas, in hoglhcads i cola: e in
St. Croi* Rum .md sugar, in do. and din
l.ondon particular Madeira V ine
Sherry and Malaga Wines, ia quart-r calks
Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chcfts
Logwood, &c. &c. ' * At tb
I-tufcfcw , _ JOSEPH SIMS._
For Sale, by the Package,
For ca(h, or good notes at sixty or ninety days,
! \iz. Lifbo
; Book and Jaconet MuQins plain | Tene
I stripes, and Checks I ( \(p orte J i„ Sherr
do. do. Tamboured f packages. Porl
do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & | r Affot
gentlemen's neck do. J > fttb
Jaconet chin'zmuflin for home and the Weft v -
India market, I'u'd.crtt and linen handkerchief*, jamt
for do. do printed do. do. common purple and
' i chintz (hawls.
The above goods entitled to drawback on ex
' sortition. Also a few scotch camkricks and an Cc't
1 affurt.nent of muslin by the piece. AWe
' f The whole of the above being a consignment »Di«
from the manufafturers ir. Britain. Bin
. To be seen at William Blackburn s i>,.tt
f Ofiice, No. 64, South Second Street.
Nov- 6. » wlf : ■ 5
• Notice.
npllE Stockholders of the Bank of the United Alf»
- 1 States, are informed that according to the from
d statute of Incorporation a general Election tor .
>f t»entv five Uireflors will be heldl at.the Bank -
sos the United States in (he City ot Philadelphia,
;t on Mpnday th? firft day of January next at ten lnipi
it o'clock in the forenoon. . . lhif
Y And pursuant to the Eleventh fe«flmn of »ne sale
=s B ve Laws tiie Stockholders of the fai l Bink bet'
'• arc hereby notified tb afiemble in general Meet- i„g
inc it the fame place cm Tuesday the feconn
day of January next, at five o'clock in the L-
S " veniwg. . .
Bv order of the Board-ofdireaors,
5- ' G, SIMPSON, Calhier.
iV Second fundamental Article. ,i
'f Not more than tpree fourths of the Direfkor*
1 i in office, exc'ufive of the President, shall be e-
JU legible tor lbs next fucreedin'g year, but the
:d, Oiredlor who fball be President at the time of an _no
of Elrflion may alwaytbe re-ele<£led. •
Philadelphia, nov. 18. 1797- ftE
wrm c e. i N c
»t To holders if JAMES G'REENLEAFs prop
ny ,a? 4 EDWARD FOX's Engagements land
he TN confequenee of many having been prevent- ago
led, from late unavoidable circuinllances from fruil
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former broc
re " notice. The Trustees now inform them, tbey gabl
are ready to iflue the fame to those who may ap- tion
97 . ply within fixtv days, at No. 8 Chefnut Street, v»ev
te and those who do not, will be confidercd as re- env
linquifhing their claim on the Aggregate tund oyfl
",'i provided tor their payment. nati
cd K IIENUY PRATT, ges
THOMAS W. FRANCI, froi
!, w ' JOHN MILLER, JUN.' exp
JOHN ASHLEY, der
JACOB BAKER. it i<
LIT, ntwmker, aj- t » th&flm -
French Circulating Library. di v
la- f a"
leu- JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE, tioi
[for No. Jio Walnut-street, bet
,a"d TNFORMS those who wilh to racur to the only ko
ack. X means of becomsnjj perfect in the French Lan- tht
try guage.that he has jutl opened his Libraiy, con- ni:
far fifting of upwards of 1150 volumes, the bed cal- or
pain culated to afford either ufeful inftruftion, or plea
rned sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue fp (
and of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's jji
bed in town. . . , tht
per- n. b. All translations from and into the I rencn, at
1 cp- Edglifh and Spanish Languages, execiued with ac- Qb
curacy and dispatch. eolm nov. 15-
fll For Sale by the Subscriber,
White Plattillas
Brown Hollands
795. White Sheetings
f her DowlalTes
w on Silefu bordered Handkerchiefs
if the Striped Siimoufes
rying Black Ribbons, No. 3 and 4 2 ,
bund Olafs Tumblers, and Looking Glafies, in
spit- in cases, &c &c. A
rdil '- George Pennock.
november 6. eod 3 w ! V
:latad FOR SALE, G
XZ By BENJAMIN CLARK, ,
tisfac- 2s, the corntr of Chefnut and Front streets, |
ptom A large quantity of Clocks and . c
a you' W&tchis. 4lfo, a general assortment of Tools,
inuing Eiles and Materials, cokfilling of Clock Movfc
maits, eight day and thirty hour hrafs pinions
OCK; and large work ; Bulls, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glasses, Punice Stone, Emery,
Rotten Stone, Cat Gut; bench, (land and tail
id in a Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals, Keys, &c. &c.
:U, by * # * Apprentices Wanted. (
flreet, november 3. ]
The History of Pennlylvania, i
, have Bv ROBERT PROUD, ;
illiam Ty now in the prtfs, and will be
ndiii", i" witb all convenient expedition, bv ZtCHA-
v ° rx all Poulson, jun. N#. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Pliil(id«lphia, wheie subscriptions wil.l continue
to be. received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposals, until the
cures w prlt j s i-eady for the fubferibers.
heftrll lulv 2awtf
le mod r>
; days. Window Glass,
crfcTu Of Superioa" Quality, and cheaper than any other in
. „ ' iheCitv-"
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
...... fiom Bby 6 to 19 by 14,
V r 3m By the Rngie Sox or Qnantuv. may be had al th.c
r l ' fto'f of the ijubfcribeis, cornel ot Art* and tronl
utUin.is
aild B rC "' James C. V SamuelW. Filher.
wjt Philadelphia, June 9, 1797- "jiwmwfit
Aix Cents Reward. i
RANAWAY, thishiorr.ir December | 7'J al w
theSubicrioer, an indented boy, eamed V il
kj am Aston, aiout J f«et, 6or 7 inch's I«2'> yvjj j
fair cermplrdtio!!, heavy brows, f:ealn '";ck, ito.it 4*
male! Had on he went awaj, a blue coat-e, ."V
W*ck rrft.-bittf Ihili' to caution the ■ ' •
public n.t to credit him on my account, as vul 1
not pay any debts of hii contratfjngaft.-rthis date. jflea as.
Any perf-jn harbouring him, or employing him, cben, t
to the utmof* rigour ot the law ; tloorv a
all rpfcfcfr's ot vcffels are cautioned not to £tk<S n«« good v.*;
, away nt tftcir peril; Any person apprehending hull this j>la<
and lodging him in jad so that his mafcer may 5 : , - man sii
him agrint fca'-l receive the above reward and no j rt y to it
charges paid by ' acrofsti
John Harper, of one
No, 67, Arch Street. To
rfce.. 4 - ■ __ _ Vav
A CompTirTg House to let. ■. -
AMofl convenient Comptinj House is now fpr 1' 01' 1;
hire on RoIVs wharf, direftly over the arch.
Far teruiJ, »p?#y 10 „
Samuel Bred, jun.
No. 89, south Third street. n(j|
Where may Ic had, House
A few bales of Ravens Duck, and about 100 0 n Wa
pieces of fiout Canvass ; a fntall quantity of Mace, fce( an
and some high oroof Brandy ; Sherry W,ne,Cn«- .
cola:e in boxes, Window Glass of various, iizes | jumbe
and dimenfiont. Dec. *' ■ e ?° t
SanrneT"^iVi'iers Fiftier, l'v
ARF. NOW OPENING, \v'Ur
AtthcirWarehoufe.No. j 7 , Dock Street, a frefli water
assortment of Woolen and other goods, fuitablc to Itreets
'he l'eafon, received by the late arrival! from Eng- ty-tou
, . ward
land. r t
Thi have also fir Sale, lou til
Lilbon -) avct
IZ T ;% fln pipes,hhds. and qur.rter casks-
Port Wines, 3 v may h
Afibrted queen's ware in crates, &c. yrope
roth mo- 23d. dXW3taw 3 w v for ca
, lames G. Es? Samuel W. Hfher, i )n "j|
1 AT THEIR STORE,
No. 13, cottier of Arch and Front streets,
H/vt tOR SALE, And 1
1 Cqrton Md worded Heflery in trunk», assorted Cai
A'ifew hales ted, \v)iite r and yellow flannels cit'
t 'Ditto futt-*otnall 1-lat.dk.eTcbi-le Ne\
Ditto l'ulltcat fillt ditto
s Djitto I'ondichtrry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs \ ' ' ' ®y
Bengal black J u
4qoo pieces Nankeens, and
Few cherts bed riyfon "1 ea
d Alfu —MOQ boxes bed London Window Glass,
ie from Bby6, to t-tfby
, r Ware, aCforted, which they will dispose of cheaper
t, than any in the city. *r T
, novemher ,8. * awtf H
n imported (via New York) on the sch
fhit> Hero, from Madras and Calcutta, and for on S.
,c fab by the fublcriber, at No. 61, Chelaut street, and
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
t - ine articles . . ,
id Maharagonges Charcbnna Ddreni argi
E- Chinti and Calicoes Dacca worked muflms D
Gillis Romals Bandaimoes JJ
Nillas & Penliafoes ' Chafla Romals A
Blue cloth Hair ribbon writ
MullMullhar.kertKiefs Palerrtpores <nea
Patna do. Banares Opium
Lesser Cardiftium Seeds. the
h c ; Samuel Wilcox.
an november ay tuths4W BOi
; A f-aim for ialc, b l_
IN Perth Ainboy i# the Rate of New-Jcrfey,
1 of four 'hundred awes, indyaing a proper ' rr
proportion of meadow, of arable and wood X
land, and Wt raarQi: There is on the premifts, PT,i
nt- a nood apple orchard, and a va/iety of other day
om fruit tree,, it i. well watered *ith fpnng. and ver
ner brooks, it is bounded on two tides with navi- No
icy gable waters and haj 4 good mill site, its fitua- the
ap- tion is healthy and plealjnt, commanding a at.
•et, view of the navigation of Perth Amlwy and i.s
re- environs, and .onvenient to the fined fifh artid ■
ind oyliers in their proper season, it abounds with
natural manure frem which, with the advanta-
gesofthe fait marlh by applying the hay there- H|
rom to khe keeping of stock, may at a laaall
expense, be enriched to a great degree ar.d ren-
dered oneofthefirft grazing farms in the lUte ;
it is well calculated for a farmer or a gentle- an
'im. man's feat, having several eligible iites tor bc
building. This farm will be fold together or
divided, as may suit a purchaser, at private w
sale, or if not fold, will be set up at public auc w
tion on Tuesday the nineteenth diy of pi
ber next, at the house of Robert Rattoovc, inn- w
only keeper in l'erth Amboy, at eleven o clock in di
Lan- the forenoon. Any person inclining to purcliafe _
con- may view th£ premises by application to jom
cal- or Matthias Hal/led at P.rth Amboy, from
plea- whom or from the Hon. Jonathan Dayton, blq.
og" speaker of the house of reprefentilives of the
llcr ' s United States now in Philadelphia, trom Mat
, thiol miiiemi'off, jun. efq. or Mr. Samuel Smith
ench, at Elizabeth-Tciwn further information may be
;h ac " obtained,—and who are pofTeflTed of maps of s
IL~ the fame.
Perth A,Aoy, Nov. 16,,7,7. _ fodtißn
FOR SALk, tr
Joseph Anthony & Co.
No 5. Chefimt Street, |
A cargo of choice Bourdeaftx Brandy, id and id .
proof, just landed
. ,(o bales of Bourbon cotton of afuperior quality
:s » o do. Surat, do »!"
A quantity of heavy black pep per 1 11 bale.
fc. Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality (
I3W High proof Jamaica lpirits
Old London particular Madeira wiae? In pipes &
do. market do qr. cafksl
k "» New England rnm in hoglheads
Ireets, Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
and Claret incaf s
Tools Spermaceti candles aftd drain d oil
vrnvr--' Prime Bodon beef'
unions Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrels
Dials Do- Herring iu do do
Miierv Be(l Bodon Mackarcl in Darrelf of the fall fa»e.
id tail New-England tiw l »«n
cc ; &c . A few tons of Rulfia cordage
Ruilia feather beds
- Clover and Tirnothy feed iu jaiks
iLliL— Long wha'c-bmic
la, No 1,4, and 3, Bodon fail duck
A few cheds firii Hyfon tea
iilifhed Carolina rice in halt tisreesand
tCH A- A" invoice of D H tch,fioUovr glass ware.
'-street, November 8- y I
sntir.ue aoo W tr?bl of choice Si. Do-
ST3: . mngo CO
,w,f "* "" bt james VARI^
november
3thcr in Walker 8c Kennedy,
jVo. 73, South Front Street,
' HAVE KOR SALE,
d the 100 Hoglheads of prime Georgia Tobacco,
d Front- Also,
5P Pipes of Bonrdeaux Brandy,
(her. 10 Pipes of old Port Wine
mwhf Odl. 17. l^tf
For Sale, "
'Thai willhor.T. piece, called s
FERRY, INFORi
Nelhatoiny creak, 18 miles from Phila- has remov
ladclphia, 011 the Nevy York pojt road, Ware, an'
containing 7,4 acres and 94 perches. Upon the cond, to 1-
ureinifes are a large two itery stone houle occu- corner ot t
i.ieil as a tvefit, add a gbod one story stone kit- vm M °' hls '
cben, a large frame fbUe with a good threftm? a
floor,> and fif&c out bcMings—'tfo a well of
good water, and an excellent ie# house. On
this place' is a tnoft elegeht fitiution fora gentle
man s Oat, commanding a view of the Nefham
jnv to its aiih tl:e l)elawate, and tiiciKC •
: zcvoU to the Jcrfcv .fiiore. It has the privilege
of one half theTbll received from the lu'idge.
For terms apply to'ihe Snbfct'ilW, '•
MORDfiCAI LEWS
j Way, -44- ' aCrcscan
Fax 1 sale or to be let on grbuild- c«Mt,a>
rent, barn witl
Avalmble Lot of Oromd ; to'pwcL
SITUATE on the north-east Comer of \\ ai- fQ ,j
nut and' Fifth lireets, fronting the State- crms B
House square. "This lot is fifty-one feet front to h
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen B nQVcm
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present twofmail two story brick house., ..da fHK
number of to all tenements thereon. , lier vi n ,
A!/o, for Sal', int
Two three story Brick Houle§ th r at
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. fituaieon diforck-r
Water-llreet, between Mulberry and SafFafras fcortly c
streets, containing in front on Water street Cf- several 1
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth eatl- ftipplies
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the Robert >
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houles John D
ave the convenisnce of a public altey adjoining Aeia u
on the north fide, and are a very desirable fitua- Iriltbei ■
tion for a merchant, flour faaor,or others who Alex S,
m»vhave occasion for storage of gOods. This Jacob i
uroperty will be fold on very reasonable terms Ozuen i
f or oHi. For further information apply to the Keppelc
■ . . A Jam :
> ngsr,i. mscw.f jmi
—- 111 "'. " * b'e»jami
Jujl Pabli/hed, oa.
And to be had of Messrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
3 Gary; aDd the ether pi icipal fiookfellers in t\c
c^y»Pr * ce olie dollar, twinty-fure cents,in boards, _/
Yicwi, of the Origin of thfe
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON,
June ac. [[— every ]
School Books and Stationary, to
W. young, j A^;
sr No. tz, Setond-flfeet, otrn r of Cliefnut-dreet,
HAS now ready for fjJc, a very hrge aflort- W i:h 1
ment of French-, Latin Creek
e SCHOOL BOOKS. M, such elementary books
or on Science, as are generally reafl in the acaflepjies _
;t, and colleges throughout the United States. ( f\ 1
V- I.ATILY rOBLISHIB, W ith .
'Sheridan's Diftionary, the filth edition, in one o(]n(
largjcvol. \o price 3 dols. D f h al
ins Ditto, large 12 mo price 1 dol, 75 cts.
Ditto, common, price 1 dol. 50. cts.
All fb £ ts of draw.bg, packing printing, and
writing Paper 5 Bookbinder's Boards, Padefco-rds,, Wen
sheathing and blotting Papers; printed Bla.il->,■
blank Boolis, Was, Wafers, and other arucfes, of
the bett quality, used in the counting lioufe, or n
publK °^ai,g U( . s of a mifccllaneous colleilioivol; IIDJ
[ BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had,
Uy inquiring as above.
ey, The Norfolk Mail STAGE. IVin
per 'VpiHIS Stage ltarts from the GEOAGr. Tavern,
'°d i at the corner ol Sefcotad and Arch Streets, in u. (
Fes, -philidelnhia, Vvcry TiuJZiv, TburfJiy, and
her Jnt, as ( o'clock, in the ir ormng; arrives it Do-.
ind vtr the firft day, at Snowhill the feebnd day, at.
ivi- Northampton Curt House die third day, and on,
ua- the morning of the fourth day the paffengcrs finu |
g a a fafe and comfortable packet to convey them to-. OIW
il]i N °Apackct leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry] Pin
■1 every Tuesday, Thursday and .Saturday, and the
Si.J from this ferry for Philadelphia, every, j
Mon.'ay, Wedneflay andF.iJay ; puttup at Spow'
Hill the firft wight, at Dover the ad night, and ar-i
® rives in FhiUdelphia in the evening of the tlurd!
ren-
ite ; Thediftance nil this robte, between Philadelphia try
ule ' and Norfolk, is So'miles lei's than on any stage route £
tor between those places ; and
■r or Too much ca-hnot befaid in favor of the u f u
va te w hich is most excellent indved. '1 he proprietors atl
auc- willingly engage to return the whole fare to any!
:cta- paifengcr, who, after having performed this route, thc
inn- will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame,
■k in distance, so good a road in America. nv:
:hafe Angult n. | f«t
K City of Walhingion. 01
Efq- SCHEME
iiu/- Of the Lottery, No. H, m
Imith For the'lmprovement of the I' City, '
ay be Amagniricentdwellir.g-houfe 20,0Dodcl!ars,
'P» of Sc calh 30.000, are io.doct
1 ditto 15,000 & ea!h 45,00s 40,001-
1 ditto 15,000 I* calh 15,000 30,00cj
8D 1 ditto 10,000 & clfh 10,000 30,000
* 1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 lojonr ca
i ditto 5,000 & cash 5.000 10,000 m
1 calh priie bf 10,000 w
2 do. s,oooeach, ire a • ro.oou ; r
ind id | j 0 40. 1,000 - - io,oot t j
JO do. 500 - - ">' oon *
(10 . 100 - - I0 ' 000
. ■ . . 10,000
4.10 do. 5°
. ~ . . 10,000
400 uo. 15
J ' „r, - 30,000
Itooo no.
. . I c®,ooll
I5»ooe do. 10
ipes &
16,W9 Prizes.
33,161 IVaaks. j
' L
50, ogo Tickets, at Eight Dollar., 400.00" ;
N. B. To flvour those who may take a quail- 1
barrel, tity of Ti.kets,the prize »f 40.000 dollars will a ,
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the 1
: aK, but one : * ■ 1
And approvednotcs, fecuwn-g payment in eithe 1
inoiisy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing. w. ; l 1
bc received foi any number not lefsthan so tiJ.-
et This Lottery will rfferd en elegit specimen of
che private buildings-to be ertflcd in the City ol
Wafhw«ton—Two beautiful"defigns
ieleAed'for the entire 1 routs on two of the public
fqdarcs; from theft drawittgsit ispropofed tae«<*
d2W twoccntreand 'ourcon-er buildings as foonaspol-
'fible after this lottery isfold, atidto un\ev t.um,
f. Do- when complete, to the fortunate *
the manner dtlcribed in the fchemc lor the l¥
Lottery. A nett deduflion of five per cent. v. ill
be made .0 defray the ueceffary expenses of print,
RD. inff, &c. and the f orplus will be made a pair of
d-ot the fund intended for die National UraverCty, Jo
be erected within rhs city of Waflungwn. *
•ny. The realfecurititsgiven for the payment ol tie
9 Brizes, are held by the President and two D.red
ors of the flank of Columbia, and are Valued at
- more than half the amount of the lattery.
. obacco, SAMUEL BLODGET.
§ Tickets may be had at the Bank ot Colom
bia ;of lames Wed & Co. Baltimore ; of Fete*.
Oilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins Richmond -
irfwtf wHi of Richard W*«e, Cooper's Ferry. mwf
R E M 0 V A L.
-Maurice Moynihan, '
INFOkMS his friends and the public, that he j
has removed his Store of China, GUi6, Queens
Ware» and Dry Goods, from No. 8l North Se
cond, to No. 71 North Sev<"Jth Street, north, catl
corner of Cherry Alley, where he solicits the fa
vor of his former c vitamers-.
N. B. Crates put up with care at the {horteu
notice.
novemher 2,. ""
Real Estate for
A PLANTATION, in a healthy and good ■Si
tuation 011 Chester Creek, in Middleton
foWrtCnp, Delaware County, containing
acres, upwards of 50 acres of which are wood „
l?nd, well timbered ; the remainder plough larju
and watered meadow—of the latter, uiany more
acres can be made at a small expen<H?. • There are
on said j.remifes, a orchard of heft? grafted
fruit, a jiwrfei with ai'pring near the door, a frame
1 am with (tabling under, and a log tenement oja
cne part cf said place.—-—Any person inclining
to purchaffi, may view the premises by applying
to on said farm, and know the
crms by applying to Jonathan PensiKLl, io tha ,
L torough of Ckefttr.
1 B novcm?>er at . 3 t cod .
1 Philadelphia, 08. 13.,
THR fnbfcriber* inform their friendsand cu4o-*
iners in town arid country,that their {lores are npw.
Ojpen in the city, and others are daily opening, ind
that from the pfefttot appearance of the .prevailing
r» disorder have reason to hope, their triends may*
s ltrortly come to the cky with perfect faf ty. By
several late arrivals, numbers have received ftefti
r- supplies of GOODS.
e Robert Smith & Co. P. W. Gallaudet cT Co.
s John Da-vis ss* Co. Sitgreahes ifj French,
g Keill Iff Smith, George L'obfoh,
i- lf r ittberger and Smith, Thomns Ryerfon,
,0 Alex Bijlund and Co. T. R. Hardenberg.
is jacob Sperry and Co. John Smith and Co'
is Ozuen Jona. Jones> Thomas Orr f
ie Kep-pelc & Zantzingcr, iVtlliam Uarher Co.
Adam Zantzjiger> Thomas Armat & Son.
Johh Fries, J. Miller, jun. and Co.
~~ Be"jamin &J. Jobrfon. ( :
o<st. 14 • - r
£ POYNTELL's f
J». Paper Hangings
it No. 70, Chefnut-ftreet,
iVhee i hi Ins for Sok, , J ;
\ VERY eitenfivc flock, of every colour, ami
XS, <>T the m'crft approved pattern!, fiiitable for f
every part of a lioult, with great variety of bor
, del s to suit.
ALSO —
; A handfoaie aKsrtm nt of the niofl
j Silver Grourttife London and ParU Papers, And
r '' very best p'ain CrCt'i; and plaiti Blue,
>rt " Wi h Paonel Piper-e and a lkh variety <Ji liordtw.
rcd Never-'.tfr 1. eo6t__ ,
tfes FOk SiiLE, 1~~ l ~~
A Tearn, of five excellentHorfes,
with a \Vsggon and •' Woffes are all
on<; yoling ftrrihg, tnv to rhe draught, an:) czpablc
of hauling as jreat a -trtight as tnoft in the coun
try The Waggon and Gears are l!r<lr»g, anil
and in order. Apply to ROKEtiT GREEN,
~ Weft Town, Chetier county, or».:o ;
iifalj Thomas Fisher,,
■ ef No. Ml, S. Second Street, PhiU'elphia
> n mo. -i, <"d3W.
, n .of imported inthfelhipMam Chester,
had ®ekjami'N She-w.ell, Mafier,
W from.Bouiricau«, and ftrrfale by thv-lubfcriber,
•>!n. II Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Biaridy ~j
i/errv J r ;fh market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback,
trio. Sauterne, do. -.do. J
y, at| Thomas Murgatroycl.
ld °" j WHO HAS FOR SALE,
cnuo Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter cask«
i Rota do. 'l®-
feiry,.] Pimento in bags
the .| 4000 bufliels Liverpool fait.
Si A »S- *4- tut&stf- —
fej Peale's Museum.
11
elphi.i t-r"HIS valnaMe repofHory of the works of Na
loute J[ tlrt . C) f, vrcll calculated to delight the miiid
and enlarge the undcrdanding, is opened'daily* as
road< usual. It° (lands in an airy and healthy Ctuition,
rietori and free from the epidehvic that at prefefit atai«Ss
0 »'••/ tine city ; it may, therefore, ie frequented -witji
route} t hc created fafety.
icfamcl As an A'.:.ufcmcnt, the study of Nature Is the
mod rational and plealljig ■ as a Science, the mod
■orf. fullin-,3 and inflriiaiye. It elevates the mind ;m»l
v 'f, ■ expinds the heart. They
I. tuftrian Ntilurc*t xoorls can Godhinrfaf
" Hold converse
Mapy tnter.-fling additions have lately been
mr.ic to this. Mnftnm : ard the feathered tribe,
Ciii coi taining a variety of the moll rare and beautiful
m &L fuM«a», "is r.ivv very advantageotifly arranged.
" Waxen Figures, of Men large as life (some of them
5 °' 00: ; casts from nature) are here dressed in tneic pr«per
40,001* hiMt< and pbet d in attitudes charaaeriAic of their
nations Here may be seen the North
-30,000 Ame ,.; raa Savage, and the ftavage of South-Ai»>*ri
loioor ta laboring Chinese, and the Chincfe Gentlc
*o,ooo nlin the sooty African, and the Kamtl'chadale—
-10,000 forne Natives .of the South Sea Islands. 1-he
io,oOo immense variety and interefling diveriity which
ic.oot this Mufeura offers to the view, may befeen but
10,000 oannotbe defevibed with full-efM.
10,000 jrt - Price only i-r4th of a dollar.
10,000 Seyt. 18. J ,aKV
jo.ooo - Davis's Law Book' Store,
,SSC _ a
GEORGE DAVIS,
BfiING busted for fame time pad in rrepars
tions for removing into h:s p»cfent l.oufe, has
— been under thcneceffity of poftp'.ningtntil t.hisday
400,000 Jnfrfrmingtbe getttlrnwn of the Bar generally thro'
— the United -States, that his fpritig importation of
: a quasi- law books is Bow arranged and ready for lale, km
s will be terms that he trutts will entitlehim tcttlis like pre
he LAST freeue'e he hit for ie"retal years -pall.
Catalogues, Coiftbintug the moll varied coliee
:in either tiori ever imported irfto this country, are printed
ii:g, -will and will be delivered on application.
;,c tick- [une 3.7. . ln ' v
ecimeno! Boston Glais Mznutatlovy.
Ie citv of i r i 'HE xitizens of rhe-Untted States are hereby
e already 1 tint the manufactory of Wim'ow
the public now commcn«.d atrte Glafslloufe in:Bdt-.
:<itoe»e<sk tcm. ■ ,
-.onaspoi; It is reedlcfa to fay any thmg.of the excellent j
vev tiicm. quality of the Bolton daft, as it is so well knovU
ituror ;. ii tiirouyhout the United States eo be in every refpsft
■he Hotel .rreatlyfupei ior to any ever imported frcm Europe,
cent will ° It will be cut to any llzc commonly u'fed ; and 1
sos print- may be cocftantly had by applying to Cbarles If.
a put of ICu pfek, at the G'lafs House. |
verCly, Jo Orders from the diftairt States to be addrefled to
, '.! Mr. Samoeu Go»e, Coutt-ftreet, Eofton.
entofthe Boston, Sept 30, 1797. O 4—4aw6w
,vo Dircit- M'Jfrs. Timothy anU Ma/on, Charlton;
"valued at Hodge and Boylan, Halifax, A". C. MtfrS. WilUtt
cry * and O'Connor, Ncrf.li ; Mr. EUii frice, Alt k md.i.i; ;
r, <fcr yieffrs.Yviiit and Brown, JSaUusert; Mr. HvJiH/ii,
"ol Colsro- AV'ii-Tori.; and Mtfrt. Hud/oats' Gma\tw,Jiji. ■
■ of Feter fed; Mr. Seymour, Sa-vannab ; are -nyuJirJ p, infiit
i'chmond ; the above once a weei 6 -weeks. The (n.-yi/J
rv ' aiwf ward*' &e£filtr.