of ti>t a™ Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
/ '
Ni'MHETi 1642 J
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRT GOODS.
C Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. 56,
fauth «t,
Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
South Frcmt-ftrcet.
• For«miont-John Connelly, Old City
hLjUmJ Au&ion, No. 7 ? foof'h Fro-nt-ftreet.
) Afternoon—iVilli3rn Shannon, No.
(. 183 High-flreet. .
»<*«»■' | "s N - "
Thurfdai i Forenoon— Eav.-anl Fox.
\ Afternoon—John Connelly,
r 1 • > Forenoon—William Shannon.
' J Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
To be §pld at Public Vendue,
(If not before d'fpofed of at private f%l*)
ON Monday the rifltdayot January ntxt, at fix
o'clock i'.t the evening, at ihe Merchants' Cof
fee Hwufei in Philadelphia, Twtmv-Six Tbouiaud
Seven Hundred and Eighty acres of LAND* in the
State of New-York, between the northern bounds
«>f Penafylvania and the Su'cjuchanna, now, or late
in the t»wnfhips of Hamdeu and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery. One lounh of the purchase
money t® pajd at the time of ff !e ; for the residue
credit two and three months, will be given,
on intcrelk and good security.
D c 4. fltnwrS.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If apt before difpofpd of at -private fnk)
ON the lirltdayof JSuuary next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
"House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thoufjnd Nine Hun
dred and Thirty-Nine acres of LAND in Gieen
cbaftiy, CominmwcttilvDf 4Sem4yJvwsia,!>u riil,U£»- .
terj of Filh and Wheeling CrreU, md te i Mile Run.
'i'hctc lands are fertile, well limbered kod abuu-uJ
coil; th»y were v>- • "gi I'd# jJJ fete,
I««e: ted e* iv 111 1787, O'ept 3.700, which weitf pa
tented in 179»| the greatell fart of them
veyed in 1 78J.
This traft is between the Ohio and Monongahela,
very convenient to water carriage—about tgmilcsfrom
the town of and from 1410 16.from the
villages of Greeniburgh and Wheeling. Ope fourth
of the purchase money it tope paid at the time of
file; for the lehdue a credit of one, two, and thiee
months will be given, on interest and good security.
l3?awtj
NOW LANDING,
from cn board the ship farmer, lying at Harper's
Wharf,
Claret in hhds.
Ditto in cases
Sauterne Wine in do.
For Sale, apply to
* J°bn WJxtefide & Co.
No. 138, S arkst-ftreet.
Also, $n hand,
Bourdeaux Brandy in pipes —f
. Km «W"Anrißna *um
A few calcs of Claret, of a superior quality,
november 29. § &
To be Sold,
The time of a Negro Boy,
About fifteen years of age, has ieven years yet
to serve ; he is an excellent houie Servant, a&ive
andheahhy. Enquire of the Printer.
Decmfcer z. •
To Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH. or without Board—at No. 114, corner
ps Sixth and Race Streets. The' Utuation
agreeable—and -vicinity has been free from the late
rontagion. OA. 2? —dtf
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GkOQMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpe<fl, returns her lincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
lhe his received during four years refidenje ia
Philadelphia j and a/lures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
febool, ihe has fnade a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
<iroombridge and matters excelling in their
refpefllve profellions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797- jimfrf
The situation is perfeflly healthy ; and made
Hiore agreeabieby an cxtenfive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the liQufe. .
This Day Published, •
And to be tald by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut ftree s.
Price 3-Btbs of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents
Containod i* No. V and VI of
*< The Hiftoiy of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the charck or sprcut-ATiov against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late S«cretj»»y of the T&iasdhy, is EULLY
REFUTED.
iviirrEN Br hims e1 r.
This publication presents a ccncifc statement
of the base means pradlifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the charaflers of thofs
psrfons who are considered as hostile to their difor
cranizing schemes. It also contains the cor
refponder.ee between Mr. Hamilton and MefTrs.
Monroe, Muhlenbnrgh and Venable, on the fub
jeft of the documents alorefaid, and a feri<;s of let
ters. from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the possibility of a doubt,
that the conncclion between him and Reynolds,
was the rcfult of a daring eonfpiracy on the part
of the latter and hh associates to extort money.
ry A difcotint of one third frpnifhe retail price
vriU be made in favor of wholcfalc purchnfers, for
aASU. Ordersto be addrtffed ta Mr. Yoons.
1 15-
Landing,
From on board Ae ship Edward, »t Walnut
ftreet Wharf,
London particular Madeira Wine,
of a superior quality, For Sale by the fubferiber.
Robert Andrews.
November j.
: " TO BE SOLD,
Or Exchanged for Property in the Country,
That three Itory Brick Houfc,
No. 157, north Third flreet. Apply at the of
fice of tliis Gazette. nev. l>- wfts4«
By John Fenno, N 119 Qhefnut Street.
P HIL 4D E L P-H lAt WEDNESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER \ 3 , .797.
r ' ll ■ • 1 .*■' ———
For Londonderry,
The American Ship
BOSTON PACKET,
CoppERTrtWAiT, Master,
T*tOVT lying at Mifflin's Wharf, |
tiear Vinc-tlreet—Has elegant aec .-nmodatioas for
palfcngei'i—will fail, waatfm on qr
abotit the loth inft. having alt lurr
ready to go on board. For passage oi*ly, iipply to
the captain.
Smith Is" Ridgway,
No 4, North WatT fttreet,or td
Jfaac Harvey, Jun.
No. j, South Water street.
December I ' §lot
for Amsterdam,
E D W S A R D,
J ames Wickham, Majier,
to fail in a few days, having two
thirds of her cargo already engaged, and near
ly on hoard. For Frtight or Paflage, apply to
theMatltf on boaid, at Hamilton'* wharf, or to
John Donnaid/on,
No. ji, Walaut-ftrrcf.
November ig. d&t
Jt'or Amlterdam,
The Ship
FAR M E R,
J&hw M'Cotllom,.Mailer;
fail in a few days the
ic»i£j«ftsefe<fsjj T( . !l tcr part df her
ready. Foy freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or pJf
fage, apply to thfc mafler 011 board, at Walnut
-street wharf,- ne to
JOHN SAVAGE.
i> Landing, out o! the said Ship, from Bosr
ijeaux, and For Sak,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter casks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fentiniac,
Sauterne, > Wines in cases
Lunille, )
prunes in boxes
november 24. S
t or Liverpool,
The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
Captain Silas Swaik.
A Large proportion ps her
* cargp being ready to go 00
board, is expeftcd to fail on or about Sjnday, the
3d of December.
For Freight or FalTage, apply to the Captain 01
board, at V.'aluut-ftreet Wharf, .or to
PHILIP NICKLIN fcf Co.
November aa. §
For Londonderry,
THE BRIGANfINE
S U KET,
William Whittin, Master.
Prong good veflel, about two
hundred tons, to fiilwith all convenient speed, a
prirat part of h«r cargo engaged—«»w lyiMg at
Willing and Fran6is's wharf. For freight or paf
faee, apply to the captain, or
JOHN S.K.YRIN,
Landcnbcrgcr*! ivbarf.
Who wants to Charter.
A "Vtsstl of about three hundred tons.
nov ' 8. §
For Savannah, in Georgia,
the ship
Sally Butler,
[ &£[Captain C h i s h 0 l m,
hiA new vessel, with excellent
acconimodations for paflenjrers—
SaiU on the toth of December. F> r freight or
Paffagc, apply to ROSS SI\ISON.
Who Ifave to d/p"fc n f ,
A small invoice of GLAI » HKR i?AIaTS
INDIGO, and a parrel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. V
Lor Hamburgh.
,r—The Brig MAR Y,
Jy&hjT Prran Vork, mailer,
t Lying at Ruffel's wharf, near Fine
"i i rert > I'now resdy to take in a
{ Cargo, and will (ail in tan days.
For Freight, or Poffage, apply to
GURNEY & SMITH.
November r6.
Rundle y Leech,
Have 1 just received, and have for Sale, at no. 9,
Walnut Hrect,
Liverpool and St. Übes SAL 1
Do. bed houf; CO LS
Queens' WARE in cases, afibrteel
Bourdeaux BRANDY of an excellent quality
Do. CLARET in cases, do.
THFY .HAVE ALSO
For SALE or CHARTER,
THE SHIP
P E G Cj J ,
Burthen US tons, in excellent condition, and
may be sent to sea with little expente or delay.
LIKEWISE,
» the brig
. feilK WILLIAM,
Burthen 201 tons,
november T6.
~Tor Sale or Charter,
The fad failing brig
Brothers,
Lying at Gurling's wharf,
an dcck'd velTel, burthen about
1600 barrels —not twelve months old, and in
compleat order. For terms apply to the master
onboard, or to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
Nov. diw.
■W.-T
Landing this day,
From on board th* febooner Two Friends, Dan
iel Ci'awley, Master,
go hhds. and f j ama j ca RUM,
iz pipes ) J 7
FQSI SALE BY
George Latimer & Son. i
uo-vrmber 9. ' § '
the ship
C °. IVi <lVi ' K :i C
Liverpool JVBO'.v difeha.-git.g
«t mUttTi Mcharf, near DraWbridae, wljerc
owners of goods'oq will pl«afe fpbidily to
fend their permits, Syd t.ill dircAty a«tcr
take ia freight on very low terms for Soilo*.. Ap
*pty-to th* captain, or to -
1/aac Harvey, jan.
No. 5, South Water Street.
A few! tons of ftontjf or sand ballafl wanttd.—
Apply as above.
noveniber n ; §ro;.
For Sale or Charter,
good hope,
carry ahout 1200 and
ready to take in a cargo. For terms
"pp'y to
Pragers C3 5 Co.
No. i fl, booth Secand-ftreet.
Who havi forfUle—ptline St. Croix Sugaf 'and
Rnm, Madeira, iiifbou, and Teneriffe wiue.
November 7. ' dtf.
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By fliip E from Marf;ira, and Betfoy and
Peggy, fro»i Oporto, in Pipes and Hogfheadi,
For fak by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFHtS FOR SALK,
The Ship
jy|g|r aM 11 r,
Four i ' ..rrti'ulH'i'hen,
in a c trgo—ibout three old.
LiKinvisv,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 bjrrels, ready also to receive a car
g9—and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Just landed frqm the ajjove veflTels at South street
wharf. eoim. Nov. i.
Philip Nicklin Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
At their Stores on Walnut street Wharf,
HavannahSugars, whiteandbrown
hi hhds. Jamaica do.
3900 pieces of broad Nankeens
Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighthsof chests
Quicksilver in tubs
Madeira Wine in pipes and hogflieads
Teneriffe Wine in pipe. ■ —„ r«
Q. 14 I<4 e«irt Wine in hogftead#
Sail Canvass, a(lorted, No- I to 8
8 cases of Manchefler Goods, confining of Dimities,
Mpflinets, Ginghams,Thickfctts, Corduroys,&c.
200 crates Queens' Ware, alforted
Nails, aflorted
Black quart Pottles
Yellow Qere it) cailcs
A quantity of writing Sllfes, slate Ink Stands, &«.
JCO quarter ca((ts Gun Powder
Itey lave alfafor SALE or CHARTER,
The ship MOLL r, burthen 340 tons, a
good vclf.l, and completely fitted I .'
The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
rels, may be ready f or ' n s days.
The whole of the above vessels to be seen at
Walnut street Wharf. $ noy. tf.
Chocolate and Mustard,
®f a superior quality njanufadlured,
GINGER and Pepper, ground ; shelled or
pearl Barley; Philadelphia Pyrter, Beer,
Ale and Cydtr ; Taunton and Durton Air ;
London Porter ; refl. Port and Lilbon Win*,
luita'ile for exportation or hoinc ®iufL.inption.
The highest pi ice given for Mutlard-Secii.
Also forfal:, A quantity of Bocbing and
common Baizes, a variety of colors; ahaleof
Fultians, Shawls, t<c. for file by
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, fovth Front-street
nov. 17. in.&th,t'^J*
iTn E F.
Prime Dees, fit for India vovages, for sale by
WILLIAM SHEAFF,
No. 168, High-flrett.
Also, about fifteen hundrtd weight of Bees-
Way. dtf Nov. 1797.
James iff Richard Smith,
TAKE the libery of informing thpr 'riends
and the public, that they h >ye remcved their
ilore to No. 54, South FrontJlrcet, next d.or to Ed
ward Fox's Auilion Rcom, where they have at
this time for sale, a large and general aiTortmentof
European & Eajl India Goods,
lytany of which are j '-lit imported in the Clothier,
William Penn, &c. &c.
OA. n• '
"* NOW LANDING,
At South-street Wharf,
The Cargo of the Ship Concord,
Captsin Thompson, from Bntavia.
About 300 tons firlt quali y Java Coffee (the
wilole having been fele&ed)
80 tons Java Sugar, in canisters and hags
10 lcgurc&'of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
FOR SALK Br
PETER BLIGHT.
Who also offers For Sale,
Just landed from ship Amity, from Jamaica,
ion hhds Jamaica Sugar, and
170 do. do. Rum.
November 23. d6w
Canal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence.drawing Monday, the zoth
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at W«. BLACKBURN'. Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets iu the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, M '7in
Dollars, where check books are kept lor regiller
ing and examining in those, the City of vValhing
ton, No.II. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in mofl of jthe Lotte
ries authorifsdly law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The/business of aBaoKSR, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcounti-g Bills and -Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will b4 duly attended to,
by WM. BLACKBt'RN.
navemb:r Is. §
A Fifty Dollar Bank Note,
OF the 3:mk of United State*, was 'oft oh Sa
lurday lul), I.tuvci u tho Bask of the
... I rk If an hor.ctt pcrfoir ha?"
fwmd it, and .* .'ll leave i(; \v th the Friuter Jiereof;
they fiiali be lianuifomsly rewarded.
I jeewnbw r i
Batik of North A m erica.
TilF. Stockholders sre her«by notified, that an
"leolion for tweTve'DirMttH for the epfuing
be held" at the Bank on Monday, the Bth ci
January oe»t, at t.-n o'clocl..
RICHARD WELLS, Cashier.
December %i. dtftthf
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
THE llockholcters are requeiled to nisct at the
company's ofSce, on Tuesday, the December
inft. at 3 o'clock in the afternoon, oil important
huSpefs.
WM. MOORE SMITH, See'ry.
December it. y V at -
—
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
TftE Stockholders are hereby notified, thst the
tleflion for Prefidert and Managers, ifor the ensu
ing year, will be held at the company's office, on
the fitft Monday in January «e?t, atjcjo'cJock.A si.
WM. MOORE SMITH, See'ry.
December |p mwitftiflmj
Schuylkill and SufquehannaCanal.
rHE Stockholders arftjrereby notified, that the
ele&ion for Prelident and Manageis for t! e eiifu
ingyeor, \»iU be Held at the company's office, on
me firft Monday in Jantiary neit, at JO o'clock,
a m. Dec. n. lnw&ltiilmj
0* ThoGs \n ho at'e Gi"
the late itro- JACKSON W Co. or
of J. Ml ->Sl t are requeiled to attend at a meeting
t-ifcc held Oil rnjrfdjy the : -hir.ft. at M'Sb:.f.e's
TiMrtTThl'nurd .Street bet a .-n : ? iu -
berry Street, at 6 O'clock in the evening, o
December n »t
New Aflembly Room,
South Fourth street, between Chefnut and Walnut
streets.
Mr, Francis,
OF THJE NEW-THEATRE,
RESPECTFULLY inform* his scholars and the
public in general, that his Academy for Danc
ing will commence, for the season, on Tliurfijay,
December 13, at the above
ELEGANT ROOM ;
When he hopes to receive the continuance of their
accustomed patronage, which it will be his unre«
mitting endeavor to deserve.
The days of teaching for his young pnpils are
Thursdays and Saturdays, from 3 o clock in the
afternoon till 6, and from 6 till 9, for those of a
more advanced age.
As an accommodation to those living in this vi
cinage, Mr Francis intends to inftrudl a small
party of children on Wednesday and Friday after
noon!, at his house.
Diftinil from the PrsSifing Balls, Mr. Francis
will have four private feleift Subscription Balls.
Private teaching, either at the Academy, or his
house. 1
Mr. Francis's firft PrafliGng Ball will be on
Tuesday, 19th Dec. at the New Aflembly Rcom.
Ladies and Gentlemen's tickets ta be had, by
applying to Mr. 1 as usual. ,
For further particulars, eoquirf of Mr. F. No
70, north F.ighth (Irect. Dc. it—mwf t f
MUSIC.
' J. L. LENZ,
R Teacher o! Vocal and inflrumental Music,
El URNtJ hj*Tinctre thauhsto the Ladies and
. Gentlemen, from whom he received a very
kberul chcur.rai^eincntfiacc his refiflcnce in this ci
ty, and rdptdfuily injerms his friends and the pub
lic general y, tl»cit, in confequetice <sf the requcft
of some of his frit lids, he has opened a Musical
School at hishoufo in Sprace {Street No j
he wifl teach o?ftthc Pijno forte, Violin &c. &c.—
He decros it u to enlar, t upon the ad
vantages the learjier will derive from an inflicuii
on ol this ; he v. ill only fay, that SttentifOQ
aud zeal are- aiucli excited in an afivnihly, wiiere
numbers are iif purluit ot the fame ohjed. His
arrangcoicnt is such, fhat an iuterference of the
the different fcxes will he ayoided- Xholi Ladies
and Gentlemen who cannot make it convenient to
attend at his school, he will wait upon at their
houses. Applications will be thankfully receiv
ed at hin house, where his terms an<t further parti
cij|ar* may be known.
Pec. 7. *rwcod
Samuel Pleafants Sons,
No. 74, South Second-Jlrcet,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODFi.
which they are now opening for sale, on
terms. OiSl 27. —4 V
All Persons
Having any demand's aga'nft the Estate of the
late Captain Ocprge Jrwiti, are reqntftcd to
bring in their accounts pioperly attested, on or
before the firft day of January next tnfuing
and those who are indebted to said estate are Jo
licited to make immediate payment to
SaRAH IRWIN, Administratrix..
Nov. 19 1797. 4
Musical In/lrunient Manufactory,
167, Arch-street.
TO THE LOVERS OF HARMONY.
harper,
INFORMShis friends and the public, that he h2s
now ready for sale, a few of his new invented,
and much admired fide board Piano Fortes, with
Pedalsjpatert swell, fonopahant and French harp
flop, which tor sensibility of touch, brilliancy of
t6hc, simplicity and durability of contlrudtion, the
foperiority of which,he flatters himfelf, a firglc tri
al will convince the unprejudiced judge —As they
are manufactured under his immediate infpeilion,
of the very be'-, fealoned materials, he can fell on
rcafonabie terms fur Cash. Inftrumsnts repaired,
tuned, & c.
N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex
change for new.
novtmher 18. 2aw2mo.
Wants a place,
AS a Wet N'jrfe, a young woman, who can
be well recommended. Inquire in Eleventh
street, near Race-street. net'. 27.
•eodiw.
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types —half worn.
Including Long Primer, about 400 weight, ia
good condition, and would anfver the purpo'e of
a country printer as wll as new.
Enquire of the Prir.t-r. tiov 33.
JL'ST RECEII ZD,
(via Nffw-Yurk)
Ai*t> NOW OP EKING, BY
George Dobson,
No 75, fauth Third Greet,
An extensive and general afTortment or
HABERDASHERY, viz,
Bed Ixindon mint tins (sa*l ons and Ttrfits
Common dp. do. Wor.it I Eirtdin-', irfT< r-
"'TKRl^ftrtCtTrj
white chapel Needles Imperial, diiper, and
Nuns Thread no. 6 to Thread Tapes
40, -regularly affofted W'hite Edgings
Lisle do. no. 130 to joo, Black «nd coloured Chi
regularly assorted nefe Ribbands
Coloured do. Sattin and figured do.
BlacK sewing Silks BlacVVelvet, 1-4 to I2d
devoured do. and Twifl Velvet & pelon sattins
Silk and cotton Wires 'French Cambrick
Do d®. Ribbands Scotch do.
Shirt Moulds aa4Wir?,s Plain gilt end plated
Black bruft Feather's Buttons
And a tompleat aflortment of G«ods> suitable
to the pr-lent and approaching Jcafor., at reduced
prices D«c. 6. d(f
, THE PARTNERSHIP OF
Richard & -Jaaies Potter,
IS this day 6y mutual consent. All
perfuis indebted to the (aic firm, afc rcqusfled
to pay the to either of tl »fubl'cjibcrs; and
all persons having any drmao'd* agalcli them, ate
requeued to Jspij th.:ir accounts foi fetdement.
. , Richard Potter,
'jama Poller.
December ip §
lor (lit k.v v. :or a Cerrittcaie cl .1 Share
in llii; Bank of the Untjed &atcs, tiandi i»in the name
01 A. B dated July rIJ 1797. tfct f»>ne
fc»v;., ujtt. ' ..^QBaCftSAHAU,
Richmond, Dec- t • 'j6w
ROSS £sf SIMSON,
HAVS FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Cofi'as, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in Lags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, > RUM.
v and Bengal J
300 casks RICE, z»d
A parcel of Ihip building RED CEDAR.
Ofl. 27. J
MRS. GRATTAN,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of the City, that {he prepoies having
Four CONCERTS and BALLS'during the winter.
Six Dollars each Subscriber, for one Ticket of
admittance during thefeafon.
No Subfcribera Tickets transferable.
Two Dollars a single Ticket.
The Concert to begin at half past fix, and the
Band to attend for the Ball at eigh*— the expenc®
of which Mrs Grattan engage! to discharge.
The Concerts will begin as soon as the Band ar
rives from New York.
' £j" Subscriptions received, and Tickets deliv
ered at No. 192, Market ftteet.
norember 29. §iw
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in 'whole and half (fences
Boui Jea'ux Brandy
TeneriJJ'e IVine
Molajjei
Georgia end Carolina Indigo
Ravenj Duck and one htgjhead of paiit
brujbei.
N. (s* J. Frazcr.
No. gj, Louth Front Street.
A'ot. 7. dim.
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL prrfents his
moll rjjpe.Ttful compliments to his form
er employers and the citizens in general, and re
turns his molt grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful encouragemeuthe has experienced for
thql'e twenty-five years past, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his school is now
open, at his
JLlegqnt Ball Room,
in South Fovrth-ijtreet, between C.hefnut and
Walr.ut-ftreets. To begin at 10 in the morning
for young ladies, and 6 in tjie evening for young
gentlemen.
His firft Pradlicing Bill will be to-morrow
evening, Saturday, the 9th inft.
Dec. 8. isiwif.
FOR SALF,
1 A Team of five excellent Horses,
with a Waggon and Gears. The Hories are all
young, flrnng, true to the draught, and capable
of hauling as great a weight as mo£ in the coun
' try. The Waggon and Gears are strong, and
> in good order. Apply to ROBERT GREEJv,
r Weft Town, Chetter county, or*.;o
I Thomas Fifl)er,
No. 142, S. Second Street, Philadelphia
II mo. 2, eod3W.
Yellow fever and Peflilential
' Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. ofiavo.
s By William Young, Boolfsller,
No. 52, Second Ilrect, the corner of Chefnut Ilreet,
1 f Price, in bojrdt, 871 2 Cents)
, Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
f Paper,
A V IE IV
Of the Science of Life ;
, On the principles eftatysied in tlis elements
1 of Medichie, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M. D.
With an attrstipt to correifl some important er
" rors of that woik, and oses in illuOj-ation, chief
ly fele&ed from the records of their prafhee, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br IViiLi.tM Yates [5 s Chas. Maclean.
i j To which is fubjoincd, a Treatise on the aiSioq
h of Mercury upon, living todies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diseases of indire<sl debility
Andadifiertation or.the sources of Epidcmicand ,
' Pcftilentialdifeafes; in whichisattemptedtoprov,-
by a numerousinduflion of fidls, that they tie
. Ver arjf'c from contagion, but are always prod.u
a fed by certain (s*?*> or certain viciflitude». of
jf the. atmotpl'er". Charlss Maclean, of
Ca'i'iitt'a.
Nov. 2.'.
Xlir r in in 1 —a—" >
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING*
DECEMBER 13;.
wlB be-grefcMted. a New COMEDY, (neVer pir
foi rned in this city) called,
WIVES AS THEY WERE.
. , and,
MAIDS AS THEt ARE. „
[■Written by Mrs. Inchbald, authoress of
OncHai. His Fault, Such Things Are, &c.]
Sir William Dbrrilldn Mr. Harwood
Lord Prioi-y ~ Mr. Warren
Sir George Evelyri Mr. M°reton
Mr. Norberry Mr* Taylor
Mr- Bronzely M r - Bernard
Nabfoh Mr- Wariell
Oliver Mr. .Bliffet
Goalet Mr. Sully
John Mr, T. Warreil
James Mr. Warreil,ju.
Set vants—Meffrs. Lavancy,Lafferty, Sic.
Miss Dorrillon Mrs. Merry
L?dy Mary Raffle Mrs. OJdmixon
Lady Priory Mrs. Morris
Honfe-keeper Mrs. Doftor
To which will be added, a Musical Drama, in
two acts, called,
THE ADOPTED CHILD.
Sir Bet tram Mr. Warren
Michael Mr. Cooper
Record Mr. Francis
Spruce Mr. Warreil, jun.
Le Sage Mr. Darley
B6y. Mifs.L'Ejltrangc
Clara Mrs. Warreil
"Nelly Mrs. Oldmixon
Lucy < Mrs. Francis
gr Of Friday, th« cel«brated Comic Opera of
the HIGHLAND REEL—with entertainments.
Box, one Dollar ; Pit, three quarters of a Pol
lar ; ani half a Dollar.
tr 'i 'he doors of'the Thtatre will open at five,
ar.d the Cb: tain rife st fit o'clock .
, Places lor the nose« to fallen at tile Office in
(he front of the Thratre, from 10 till i o'clock,"
and from Jo till 4 on <h- days of performance.
Tickets to be bad at H. ahd Rice's book-store,
No. 50 Markst-ftriet, and at the Office adjoining
the Theare. yiVJT ££s PiIJILIC.I !
Public Sales of Irtdia Goods
at New-York,
Will commence on Monday the ifcth inft.
by J. L. Bleecker s£? Sons ;
The cargo of theJhif\Sivift, Pierre de Pey/ler,
Commander, just atri-uedfrom Calcutta, on
a credit of 2,4, and 6 months—
Confiding of 279 bales of the following ar
ticles ;
Manikpore
Kirabod
Emertie
Patna
Jellepore
Ouddee Coflaes
Tigerry Guzzenas
Beeboorn hurrahs
Blue Guineas
Guillaudendiary Handkfs.
Doreas
Dacca Mulmuls
Tanda Coffacs
Santipore Muslins
Kermichee Romals
Chanderconah Nayanfook &
Bandanoe Handkerchiefs
The above Goods to be fold without the
smallest reserve.
Philadelphia, Dee. 12. *dct
To be lold at the Merchant's Cot"-
see-House,
ON wednesday the 13th of December at 7 o'
clock in the evening, ene certain bond or
obligation dated July 16, 1795? signed by John
Love of Alexandria for bimielf, Jafiah Wabfon
and Samuel Love for £ Alio Virginia currency, '
payable on the jrft of Oflober last paft,to Stock- 1
ley Donelfon or his assigns—which Bond the I
said Donelfon afligned to James Grant, under
whose power of attorney' this sale will be made.
For further particulars apply to the fubferibers.
FOOTMAN and Co. Auflioneers.
■Nov.ii?. " dtijthd
Just Imported,
And for Sale at William Priestman's,
No. 129, South Front Street,
Nexj dnor to th« Cufi<jm House, a large affort
nurt of low priced Silver Watches—confiding of
plain, capt. capt and jewell'd, ftope andfeconds;
Gold Watche6by Mudge, Ellicot, Holmes, Tre
gent, &c. A time-keeper l?y Arnold—Diamond
and Pearl rings and lockets, some plated canrilc
flicks, elcgrani double barrel'd guns by Mortimer,
do. by by Trimbly, a re
fleiStiag telescope, by Rcbright, a box »f patent
medicine, 6o lbs of Scotch thread, a dozen of tra
velling caps, and a small colle&ion of scarce valu
able bo oks.
December ia diw
Imported, in the brig Eliza, •
Capt. Hastie,from Bourdeaux ;
Claret in Cases of a very fuperier quality,
White Sauterne Wine in Cases,
Olive Oil'inbafcets of ia bottles each,
White and coloured Kid Gloves,
do. do. Silk do.
A few pipes of Bourdeaux Brandy,
•For Sale ly
JAMES I ATIMER, jun.
7T, South Wharves.
Who has also for Sale,
A*few qr. Caflcs Old Sherry Wine.
Dec. ?. d2w
1 FOR SALE,
By JOHN MILLER, jun. fcf Co.
No. 8, Cluff ut-ftrcet,
One hundred and eighty bales
• BENGAL GOODS, -
/imongft which arc,
Gurrahs M3»ioedtes
Baftas Sannas
Gaizcnahs Tanda Coflaes
Guzzics Emertics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
Palampoors Romall Handkerchiefs
Amongii them are a great proportion of the
mjnnfafloies cf Patr.a.
December I. §
Uriah Smith,
No. 20, north Third ftreet—uas for sal*,
A neat and general of
Broad Cloths,Kerfey meres,Napt
and Drab Coating*. rlso,
A variety of Gentlfni«yis' fafhionable fancy Waift
coatirig, fifk Holiery, s;c.
December J. "t-odiw
%U <ga3ette>
I PHILADELPHIA,
j WfeBjjESBAY EVENING, DECEMBER 13
To the Stockholders of the Bank of the
Uniteb States.
Gentlemen,
IF the spirit with which you engaged in I
J the original plan of the Bank of the United
I States, and-the vast aid which you have af
| forded to the government and to yc»ur fellow
citizens by this laudable enterprixe, : be
justly confideredas a pledge of your fidelity'
to your intereft3 as they are iiifcparably con
nefted with the general weal, we are natu
rally led tor ask if you will now consent to
an addition to your capital (lock that it tWay
; keep pace with the increased and increafijig
demand* consequent to the growiug popu
lation and general bufihf fs of your country ?
If you can coijfiently with your rights and
to do this, you will confer
new obTigatians on your country, if you will
also ask for an extension of your charter, in
return for a permiflion in favour of govern
ment to create a limited number of addition
al (hares to be fold at not less than 25 per
cent, advance, forWje sole benefit of the Uni
ted States.
Thus whenever one million of new stocks
may be created, 250,000 dollars will be gain
ed to the Treasury of the Union, and in due
time, wkich in the nature of things cannot be
far dijlant, four millions of stock might be
beneficially fold, by which the United States
may gaia one million, and for which permif
flon on your part, they will not, they can
not, reasonably refufe to double the term of
your charter. In a future essay, I will en
deavour to /hew in part the incontrovertible
benefits that will result from this plan which
sooner or later mull be adopted.
You are therefore only reqyefted to con
fider whether this is, or is not, the accepted
time and of course a day of falvatton to many
important concerns of your country. W
we agree, you will consider the propriety of
preparing a petition to Congress for these
pufpofes at your next general meeting, if
not, it will only be deferred for futiire con
fideratiori.
PUBLICOLA.
WASHINGTON, (Pot»<wmac) Dec. 2.
Mr. More,
I fer.d you extra&s from original letters
written by a real American in Europe,
who fees and judges of the palling events
with impartiality. They tend to shew
that the recent violeneet in France are
not the consequence of any real plot or
conspiracy (at least not on the pa»t of
the perfoiis accUsed) in favor of royalty,
but are the effe&s of a dfep and long me
ditated plan of the old Jacobin party to
continue their power and tyranny over
the people, by a most atrocious and arbi
trary violation ; not only of the consti
tution but of every moral and political
right, which a nation can hold sacred.
D.
June,.z6, 1797. —The negocjations for
peace between France and Great-Britain are
resuming—They are to be conduced it -is
said at LifTe in Flanders ; I still doubt ve
ry much whetherthey will terminate fuccefs
fully ; there is yet too much ambition and
too much of the disorganizing spirit in the
French government to allow them a disposi
tion sincerely pacific Thei* treatment of
Venice and Genoa,both neutral Hates, which
hare nerer been engaged in the coalition has
been in open defiance, not only of all juflice
and honor, but of all shame ; they have not
been fatisfied withdifTolving thegovernments
of those republics, but are dismembering
them, and taking part of their territories to
give them for indemnity to the Emperor,
and the king of Sardinia, instead of the do
minions they have facrificed to the conquer
ing genius of France. Buonaparte, not on
ly wages, but formally declares war—makes
peace—diltolves governments—orders the
adoption of others—sets up or pulls down
the fovereigrvpeople, just as suits his own
caprice, or that of hii employers—And ie
the midst of the deep tragedy of massacre,
pillage, aflaflination, and crimes of every
dye, that attends these revolutions, the farce
of liberty, of equality of fraternity, of the
rights of man, with its whole babyloniflidia
left of imposture and hypocrisy is afliduoufly
kept up, and I verily "believe still finds its
dupes.
July, 2 1797.— I wrote you three or
four days ago from , which I left the
next day. I then mentioned that Paftoret
had made a motion in the couucil of five
hundred, tending to annul the arrete's of
the directory relative to Ameriea ; particu
larly that of 12 Ventofe, which he truly re
presented ascontrary to the constitution. It
was referred to a committee offive, to report
upon it—You will have a more circumstan
tial account of the whole matter frum ano
ther quarter, but there are feme observa
tions which will not occur elsewhere, and
which may perhaps in some degree contri
bute to give you a just idea of our affairs in
France.
Infinite pains have been taken there to
spread universally the idea that there are in
America only two parties, the one entirely
devoted to f ranee and the other to Eng;
land. Mr. Adams has been, in the Paris
news-papers expressly represented as at the
head of the latter, and Mr. JefFcrfon of the
former.—The English too have been much
disposed to countenance the fame idea. The ■
artifice of the French party America, to
throw the odium of partiality to the Eng
lish, upon every man who would not facri
fice his country to France, has heen very
induflriaufly pursued, and in a very consid
erable degree fuccefsful. It is one inftanee
cftheirdenominaticn-giving fyflem, which 1
Fauchet so much extols—ln France, every i
thing has contributed to give prevalence to
this falftbood. Paftoret therefore, iB mak- .
ing his motion said that the Arherican gov
ernment had indeed given some reason to
doubt of the loyalty of its intentions, by
their treaty with Great-Britain, but that
this was not fufficient for a rupture, &c.
The universal dislike of that treaty, by all
the parties in France, while none of them
can give one substantial reason for their dif
like,is forus its brightest panegyric. Itfhows
that it interferes with vitws which they dare
not avow. The objeftions that they have
ever made against it are perfectly futile.—
The arrete of 12 Ventofe bears internal evi
dence, that tie reafoni assigned are not the
teal ones. Some observations were drawn
up, about 2 mouths ago, concerning*the ar
rete, They dWelt particularly. upbn the
poit)t of the Brififh treaty, and fliewtd that
the jdireSory, try rafting Ae rules of their
upon certain articles of the treaty,
merely fought a pretext : that it was totally
destitute of foundation,fince every one of the
rules, was not only variant from, but in di
rect violation of the article cited sot itsjuf
tificatiou. In order to {hew this jn it* clear
est and mod; linking light, the several rules,
and articles were placed in opposite tolumns,
so that their incompatibility might appear
at a Cngle glance, and some observations
were added at the cjofe of each. This pa
per was fecn by Paftoret before he made his
motion, and he concurred in the opinion
that the arrete was Uiconftitutional. But
as to the opposite columns, it was said, that
in these difcuflions all long quotations (hould
be avoided ; because they would not read them.
Whether Paftoret read them or not, I (hall
not fay ; but what fort of difcuflion can be
carried on with perfbns who will not read
the very state of the- queflion in debate ?
Whether that part of the paper was read,
or was offered for reading or not, Paftoret
did not thekfs complain of the British trea
ty, and complain of it as an aft of the A
niericin government, unfriendly to France.
v Paftoret is ope'of the noil distinguished
memberj of theVouncil of five hii/idred.—,
He ctnf in at the firfl constitutional elec
tioarih Ofteber 1795, an< * was not a mem
hef of the convention. He has all along
fnpported, with eloquence and firmnefs, the
cause of moderation and jufticfc, against t(ie
revolutionary violence and wickedness which
' has so often prevailed, even since the estab
lishment of the constitution. Dumolard is
anothej- member of the fame description,
and these two are certainly the most con
spicuous charafters that have arisen in that
third part of the legiflatura.
Barbe Marbois, our old acquaintance,
came in at the fame time,>and appears to
have the fame system in the couficil of el
ders. This party, since the introduftion of
the new third part, have an unquestionable
and firong majority in both councils ; but
the old remaining third of the convention, with
their fourfifths of the directory are reviving the
jacobin clubs, preparing for infurreßions and
endeavouring to secure the armies on their fide.
Since the motion of Paftoret, Dumolard
hat brought forward one of the like nature
against the measures condufted or permitted
by the direftory in Italy'. It occasioned
forae debate and finally was adjourned, until
the report of the committee upon the motion of
Pajloret Ojould be made.
This circumstance deserves notice, for the
adjournment was upon an observation of
Thibaudeau " that it was improper and
might be dangerous to investigate these
tranfaftions in Italy,fince they might be deep
ly conneded with the negociation for a general
peace." So you fee Genoa, Venice, and
perhaps Switzerland are to be not only re
volutionized but plundered, ifflmembered,
divided, tern in pieces in every way, to
make au arrangement for a general peace.
And as the fubjeft is adjourned until the re
port upon the differences with America shall
be made, ft looks very much as if some ar
rangement relative us too, was in con
templation as connefted with the negocia
tious for a general peace. There is an ob
servation of Montesquieu, that it is some
times bad policy, in a small state to re
main neutral in the wars between two great
powers its neighbours, because neither of
them being bound to it by the force of ob
ligation or intertft, they may finally fettle
the difference by Sacrificing the small power
between The truth of this remark
fs ftrtttigly exemplified by the pTcfent state
of the Italian republics though it is far
from beiug clear that they could have escap
ed it by taking part in the war. However
that may he, it is important for us to take
care not to be made ourselves the viftims of
any such agreement. If France had any
such designs, it mii/l be in the plan of fevering
the United States into two republics, on« of
which (he would take under her proteftioti,
and mould to her will, leaving the other to
the influence and management of Britain.
lam far from being certain that the British
government -would be averse to such a division.
I hope they will both be narrowly watched.
July 6, 1797. —Our Situation with
France is ft ill equivocal, and dangerous,
Gen. P. afts with gre-t pruder.ee and wis
dom, and I ana persuaded will do every
thing poflible in the disadvantageous Situati
on in which he still remains. But there are
! many wicked Agents, and many {very bad
pafiions at work against the interest and the
friendfhip ofithe two nations.—With regard
to the Weft-India depredations, the Direc
tory h? Ve published a letter from Santhonax
and hii brother Robbers their Agents, in
which they freely declare that they had em
ployed Cruizers against American vessels
without authority—but because they want
ed provisions—because the Americans were
ill disposed and because after the eleftion of j
John Adams as President of the United!
States, they concluded there would be a war j
between the two Countries. The Direfto- •
ry haverecall'd those Commiflioners and their
infamous piracies have not been unnoticed
even in Paris. An investigation and fcruti- j
ny has been called for into the hostile mea- :
fCires of the Direftory ; there is, no doubt, '
a strong party in France who disapprove of,
themj but they are afraiddf nothing so much
as being too much in the right.
Among those who call and think thera
felves our friends, and who are indeed sensi
ble how unjustly the Djreftery has treated
us, is Barbe Marbois, a man well known
in America, and now a very diltinguifhed
member of the Council of Anticnts.—He
has. lately made a report relative to the ex
pences in the department of foreign Affairs.
It appears they .are four or five times as great
a3 thty were in the mod extravagant periods
of the did government. And for all
this augmentation of charges, they "have
according te Marbois got but a very con
temptible set-«£ negotiators abroad ; among
whom he has with equal joltice included
their late MinilWr to the. United States
" One of them, (fays Marbois) Sent to a
friendly nation,, will imagine he feryes his
Country by sowing -diitruit and suspicion
between the Government and the people.—'
In order to acqqire the Reputation ofbeing
aftivc and influential, he will expose twona
tious united by their reciprocal lnterefls, by
benefits and Gratitude, to a fatal rupture ;
he will exert himfelf to fully the splendor of
the faireft'life, the eminent qualities ps the
greatest man, that our Century .can offer, to
history, aud present to posterity ; And e
ven though he should not attain the End
proposed, the minds of men will neverthe
less be alienated, and a double portion of
Wisdom will be necessary to bring them a
gain together." So you fee that even in the
Capital of France, even in the fanftuary of
their Legislature, a public, and an eloquent
voice is yet found ready to pay the tribute
of Justice to the Character of Washington,
and to reward with richly deserved Contempt
the reptile that would flied its filth and ven
om upon such brightnrfs.
July 29, 1797- —My means of commu
nication from France are very much abridg
ed since I left , and I do not well uri
derftand what the Confluences to be
expefted from, the late phange of Miniflers
there, yau wijl find that strong diffentioiis'
have broken out between the legiflatita artd
executive bodies, and between the Members
of the Direftory. They will perhaps bring
on an accomodation, that will reftfire a fort
of Peace, but the remnants of the old Con
vention have entailed upon themselves fore
ver, the curse which Tyrants never escape ;
the undying worm of a guilty conscience,
and the terrors of approaching punifliment.
They never can be recoaciled to the Nation
which they have ruin'd and difgrae'd, nor
the Nation t® them. War, open or Undcr
ftood, /s their irrevocable destiny—they can
never support themselves but by force, and evem
appearance inditates that their only reliance ts
upon the military.
August 17, 1797.—The debates m
Congress upon the importanrfubjefts which
were brought before them in their extraor
dinary session, fall far short of the manly
and vigorous spirit, which discovered itfelf
in the answer of the house to the President's j
Speech- If their deeds had corresponded
with the language of that Answer our Ne
gociatorj would have come out with a favo
rable profpeft of Succeeding in their million.
They will arrive at a time when negociation
is going forward in all quarters, and attempts
will doubtless be made to confound and in
fluence one with the other, though our pre
tensions have nothing in Common with any
other nation! Portugal hasjuft made a
Sepatate peace, by which another ally of
Great Britain is taken off without its Con
sent. The terms are yet unknown, but the
" Times" Says " that the Conclusion of this
treaty was one of the last events that our
Court could haveexpefted." Of the famous
Coalition it i*ay be said, that it was Joint
and Several; they began all together, and
concluded all alone.
August 31, 1797 —It is painful to e
very true American to fee ene foreign Mi
nister using such language, as has been em
ployed by Miniflers of powers profeffing
friendfhip towards us, ever since the time of
Genet. To degrade our Government in
the Eyes of the world by (hewing that it
may be insulted and reviled with impunity,
is a part of that system which our foreign
and domeilic Jacobins pursue with concert
ed exertions for the difTolution of our union
and the overthrow of our Conilitution. The
figure of a Spanish Minister, afting as an
instrument to promote such views, however
incongrnnns, cannot be furprizisg. It does
113 no honour in the eyes of the world,when
they fee Such Conduft paSs without marks
of resentment : but the national charafter
fuffers still more, from instances »f such tran
faftions as are unfolded in Blount's letter.
A Senator of the United States !—and
write such a paper !—and aft such a part !
We have Enemies and Enviers enough in c
very part of Europe to feixe hold of such
Circiimftances, and blazon them forth as
proofs of our depravity and Corruption. ■
In this country (England) a profound
tranquility generally pAvails: in Scotland
the papers of the day mention some Riot
which has been excited by anew Militia
law, but the Affair wilLprobably not be ve
ry important. Inland is quiet Miile the
sword waves over her head. I perceive by
the public accounts from Holland, that 'he
Constitution which had been so long foi miiig,
and with so much pains made conformable
to the Will of the French Directory, has
been rejefted by the people .in the primary
Affcmblies. Vet the French Minister had
formally declared it was approved by his
Government, and formally intimated their
Expectation and wish that the People might
adopt it. It appears that a very small por
tion of the People took any part in the de
liberations upon it; or attended the prima
ry AiTemhlies : a declaration of political
faith was preftribed, as a tell which inevi
tably operated an exclusion to one halfof the
People, Of the reft, fhat is the moderate'
patriots,who have hitherto held the reigns
of the Government under French 'protecti
on, the numbers among the People are so
small, tliat the Jacobinical Patriots out-vot
es! them by a large majsrity, and threw out;
the plan as not fufficiently democratic, and
as bearing unequivocal marks of federalifm.
The negociat ions for peace both at Udi
na and at Lisle, advance but slowly,. It jg,
probable that the conclusion of the former
is retarded by two points upon which the;
parties cannot agree. The ceflioa. or redo
ration of Mantua, and the appointment of a.
congrtfs for a general peace. Upon the is
sue oflhefe quedions, probably depends all
so the profpecl of peace, or of a continuance
to the war between France and Britain.
The ftatc of internal affairs in France, af
fords the fame profped of disunion between
.the legislative and executive powers, tW
fame symptoms of approaches towards a mi
litary government as wiien I, wrote you hi ft;
the parties are becoming.more ar.d more bit
ter and rancourous against each other from
dw to day. Tie peopit very evidently fa
vor the fide of the legiflijture but the armies
have very apparently been conciliated by
the directory. \
London, Sept. ii, 1797. You Will
have seen hv the publie.prints that Edmund
Burke died in the course of the month of
July. His executors have within these few
days published,three memorials upon French
affairs, written by hitn in the years 1791,'
1792 and 1793. I have sent you a copy of
one of them.
If the several states and governments
which are spread over the face of Europe
are considered as composing a fort of con
federated whole, thei.- fituatioij aod circum
ilances appear to resemble in an extraordina
ry degree, thofc in which the fame portion
of the earth was placed at the period when
the Roman republic fell under the ambition
and talents of Csefar. There is.atthis time,
as there was then, one single fundamental
principle upon which the' whole fabric of 1
European policy ftafids.—A revolution is
taking place which mull entirely overthrow
that principle. Such was the cafe then.
The ultimate,cosfequence, in that indanee,
was the total dissolution of the system by
which Europe was governed, and centuries
of barbarism ; the novelties of the present
day are calculated to produce, with much
greater rapidity, the fame effed. If there
be any accuracy in this view of things, the
similarity between the charader and genius
of Burke and that of Cicero will appear
wonderfully ftriking—lt is one of the :50ft.
retnarkable circumlt.inces common to both
that riling from an obfure origin, or as Paine
expresses it, upon the democratic floor, they
were the mod ftrennous and energetic defetv
ders of the aristocrats ; that is, of the inftfr
tutions upon which alone the protedion of
property subsided. In one refped the mo
dern philosopher, orator and statesman, was
mate, fortunate than the'antient ; he did not
live to fee the EnaTTff3"fPfsmevable ruin of
his cause, nor did he the martyr of iu
CONGR ESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
TUESDAY DECEMBER 12.
Mr. DwightJFofter, £rom thecommittee
of claims, made an unfavourable report on
the' petition of Joseph Gofs, late a phyficiart
and furgeou in the army, praying for cosn
penfation, which was ordered to lie on tfc«
table-
The fame gentleman moved, that the re
port of the committee of claims on the pe
tition of the Corporation of Rhode Island
College, with a report of the Secretary of
the Treasury thereon J be referred to a com
mittee of the whole honfe. Agreed for to
morrow.
Mr. Shepard presented the petition of
Giles Wolcott, late a captain in the army,
praying for recompence for lodes sustained
in the service.
Mr. Lyon moved to have this petition re
ferred to a feled committee ; as he found
the committee of claims were determined to
reject every claim, however jud, if barred
by the ad of limitation, and as he knew,
though this claim was harred, that the peti
tion was- deservedly entitled to compensa
tion.
This motion not being seconded, Mr.
Shepard moved to have the petition referred
to the committee of claims Agreed.
Mr. Harper called for the order of the day
on the bilLfor podponing commence
ment of tit? ad for laying a Stamp Duty ;
which being agreed to, the House resolved
itfelf into a committee of the whole on this
hill> Mr. Dent in the chair. The bill hav
ing been read,-
Mr. Lyon moved to'expunge the word
June and insert January ; but on the chair
man informing him that would not be in or
der, he changed his motion to the inserting
of the 3id 'of December, 1798; instead of
the 30th June,
Mr. Williams believed- the necessity of a
postponement of the commencement of this
aft, was oecafioner} by the ftcknefs which
had lately afflided thfs city, as that render
ed it impossible to get the prepara
tions for carrying it into effect executed.
'The Objed which lie fctppofed the gentle
man had in view, would be better attained,
if he Ueferred it until the bill was introduced
for making the alterations Which had been
' u ggcfted as tieceffary. A resolution had
tbeen feut to the committee of ways and
I means, directing- them to report a plan for
railing a iutiicient revenua to meet the de
mands which would be made upon govern
ment in the year fSoi. If this plan (hould
include u land tax, he {hould wiih that the
damp duty might not take place, as he vo
ted for it only on the ground of its prevent
ing the neccffity of a land-tax; but until
;his were ascertained, he (hould be in fa
vour of the ■ damp-tax. [The Chairman
reminded Mr. W. that the quedionwas not
whether the Stanjp-Ad fnould be repealed,
but whether its operation should be fufpeud
ed for a limited time.] Mr. W. (aid, if the
amendment proposed were agreed to, heihould Mtifider it in the Unle light as a
peal of the law.
Mr. Brookes fa id, the sole nbjeft of the
bill before them was, to give time to the Se
cretary of the Ti edfury to prepare the ne
cessary damped pipes before the aft took cf
feft. IVhat were the vie ws of the gentle- -A
man who proposed the amendment, he fam<
could not fay. Perhaps he would himfelf '""Li
explain why he wilhed the aft to befufpen- pose
ded for a year, which was nearly one fourth dant
of the whole duration, and would, of course, the -
facrifice nearly that proportion of the reven- His
ue expefted from it. h' s i
Mr. Lyon said, one reason with him was Few
he had his doubts whether the time propo- en®
fed for the suspension, would be.fufficient dev<
for government to make the necessary pre-
parations. The time which had been given don
was fafd to be too (Sort, fee wilhed now to fin
give time enough. The late ucknefiyn this mig
city wjis alledged as an apology for not ha- mill
ving the necessary preparations in re-.dinefs. con
He thought this a j>oor excuse; because, mo<
if the people of this city were sick, the j cou
whole country was not so. He had another j °PP
reason for his motion. He wilhed the peo- to 1:
pie to have time to get ready to receive a all
(tafnp-tax. It was a tas every where odi- ° WI
pns to the people of the United States, and c
abTolutely necessity could only reconcile it g O%
to them. t • 01 '
The question upon agreeing to the amend- ted
ment'was put and negatived, Mr. Lyon on
ly rising.in favour of it. ' t . at
Mr. Coit then moved to {lrike out, as tivc
xinaeceffary,'the second feftion of the bill, nlt '
which, had a reference to the time for which the
the law Ihould have existence. '9B
Mr. Harper wifhedthe feftion not to be ris
struck out, but amended. The objeft was («!
to prevent the fix months'which would be coi
loft by the suspension from being dedufted f vi
the existence of the aft.
Macon the whole bill might :,r '-
have been comprized in a few words, as in 1 on.
forpr<er afts of suspension, by faying the op- j " IV
eraiion of such an aft is T;ifpended tiH fuel* [ ft 1 1!
a time. ' II?
The motion for drikinjj out was put artd I » c
carried ; the committee rose, the house took P ai
up and agreed to the amendment, and the
bill wss ordered to be ertgroffed for a third ' a :
reading to-morrow. !t
Mr. Macon moved that the committee of th(
the whole be djfciiarged from the farther I cu
coniideration cf the report of the commit- j P '
tee of cla'ms on the petitions of Samuel Ab- [" e
bot, and others. The committee of claims in J
had recommended that provision by law « !(
fbould be made for the relief of these peti
tioners, whose claims are for arrears of pay, I th
&C. due fqr services during the war, whose j in
accounts were liquidated, and certificates j
granted ; but they alledge that they never j
riteived them by reason ofthe default ofthe I
agents ofthe regiments to which they be-1
longed. The committee adds, that great lan
caution, on the part of the officers of the 1 all
treasury will be tb prevent abuses. j R
Mr, M. wi(hed, therefore, that this report ve
might be again re-committed, in order that I ec
the cbmmittee of claims might fay what the ej
checks were which would prevent impofi- I di
tion, as he could not fee any that would be w
effeftual. I e:
Messrs. D. Foster and Shepard were op- ai
posed to" the motten, and thought the house w
ought to interfere in behalf of tbre petion- d
ers to do them justice, and that it wouldi>e d
ijloing nothing to re-Commit the' report, un- I
til the house had decided whether they I si
■would, or would not agree to this princi- I a
pie. I v
The motion for discharging the commit- J
tee of the whole was put and negatived I
Mr. Gall 3 * l ' ll moved'for the order of the I
day on thajreport of the committee of claims, I
to whom was referred to enquire into and re- j c
port on the expediency or inexpediency of I
designating certain claims against the Unit- I 1
ed Stateg.to be excepted from the operation I 1
of the ass of limitation ; which being a-1 1
greed to, the house accordingly resolved it- I f
felfinto a committee of the whole on the 1 1
fubjeft, Mr. Dent in the chair. The re I
port having been read, which ftatcd the in- I 1
expediency of suspending their operation, j 1
and Mr. D. Foster having moved a concur-1 1
rence, Mr. Gallatin vvidied to amend the re- j 1
port, by adding a resolution to the following 1 :
effeft : I
" Resolved, That so much of an aft, en- I
titled an aft making further provision for I
lupporting public credit, and for reducing I
the public debt, passed March 3, 1795» as j
bars from settlement, after a limited time, J
land office tickets, final settlements, and in- I
dents of interest, be suspended for a certain I
time."
The motion produced a very lengthy de- j
bate,.which, as it is conceived to be pretty
{ generally intcrefting, will be given to-mor
row, with the report of the committee of
claims upon the fubjeft. It was fuppoited
\ bv Messrs. Gallatin, Broikes, Dayton, Da
na, Read, Coit, Elmendorph, Isaac Parker,
S. Smith, Thatcher, J. Williams, and Bald
win. It was opposed by Messrs. N. Smith,
Allen, Edmond, and Macon. Noqueftion
was taken. The committee reported pro
gress, and had leave to fit again.
Mr. Harper, from the committee to whom
was re-committed the bill for the relief of
the representatives of William Carmichaej,
deccafed, reported a new bill, which was
twice read, and committed for 10-morrow.
Adjourned.
French Circulating Libr-ary.
JOSEPH 15. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. lir Waluut-ftreet,
INFORMS those who \vi(h to recur to th' or.ly
mrarts of becoming perfefl in the French Lan
' that he has just opened his Library, eon
jfuling of upwards of 1150 volumes the best cal
culated to afford either ufeful irftruftion, -r plen
fure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
in town.
n. b. All translations from and into the French,
EnglilS and Spanish Languages, executed with ac
curacy and dispatch. eoim nov. TJ.
By this day's' Mail.
but 1
DOSTON, December; 'J. thpn
Coss/w & Co. It
All our readers muil liave heard of the dinai
famous Felix Coffin, of Nantz, the memo- pose
rfalift agaiuft the United States. We sup- fatisi
posed he was a villain, and we have Co.
dant evidence to confirm the supposition, in
the deposition of a capt. Glad of New-York.
His conduit to that captain 3nd relative to
his (hip and cargo, was knavilh and savage.
Few are the bone/! men whooppofe the gov
ernment of the United States—every day Wf , £
developes some scandalous trait in their cha-
rafters ; and the few boned men vivjl abavi- "j"
don such difgraceful connexions. This Cof
fin was naturalized at Baltimore—and a ze tt
mighty tie our collnt'ry bus on him for pro- p ort
miling and affording hi 111 proteftion and an a
commercial advantages ! Coffin is a true de- re fl e
mocratic expatriatift—he would change [ 0 []
countries every day if he could improve his
| opportuniyes for plunder. Jacobins scorn 'j
to be bound by oaths.—Coffin is agent for ; n g )
all the piivateers out of Nantz, and part AS •
owner of several out of other French ports anc |
—deeply interested—and yet the French | ias
government with unparralleled weakness f ror
or knavery, listened to his libels on the Uni- avc
ted States, and his falfe and ridiculous state
ments ; and (as capt. Glad's deposition J
Hates) at his indance issued the arret rela- AC
tivc to the role d'equipage; ,which has so Cfo,
materially injured our trade—and violated
the principles of justice. He beaded of be
ing able to get what he pleased done at Pa- ' J
ris and Nantz, and that he procure «
(biffed advantage of the Revolution .') the
condemnation of any American vessel for ,
five guineas. Coffin had a regular correspon
dence with people inthiscoiintry—-fome who P o '
are " naturalized" we suppose ; who are at ;
only waiting an opportunity of miking a
diveftmert of their American citizenlhip a T, ' r
, | r»gans of filling their pockets to flee back a j u
ito France. In a vessel lately arrived at New '*
York, a'number of Coffin's friend# came "
; pafTengers—they are his true disciples—they P°'
• were numerous, and frequently on the paf
-1 sage broke open the hatches, rumaged the J ro
freight, drank and wafted the wine, and drew- P"
p their swords and knives on the captain and J nr
r crew—and sometimes, when liquor Com- P ut
. pletely unmasked the devil, " J wore
. they would set firt to the city" (mean- 0
s I ' n S probably if the citizens of New-York '
v I did behave perfeftly to their liking.)
Mr. Ellis, an American, is charged in P°'
I the above deposition wit)* being concerned
' e in a privateer out of France.
' NORFOLK, November 29. ™
e j Counterjeit Bank Notes ! > j e j i
I Yesterday was taken into'cuftody and ex
it I amined before Messrs. Read and Forfter,
e I aldermen, a man whe calls himfelf captain
s. 1 Robinson, charged with having passed fe- Sh
"t I veral counterfeit io dollar Notes ofthe Unit- JSi
it I ed States branch bank at New-York. On
e I examining his trunk forged Notts of 10
i- I dollars each, to the amount of 230 dollars, Sc
>e I were found. The copperplate items well
executed, but the paper is much thicker
5- and whiter than the true notes, and the
fe I writing badly executed. The. notes are all A
n- I drawn in favor of Chriftophcr Ray, and in- at
>e I dorfed with the fame name on the back. F
n- He was to have been again examined be
;y fore the Court at Town-hall tflis morning A
:i- I at ten o'clock ; but being nppreheufive he
I would be furniQied -winter's lodgings with rj
it- I Mr. Branan, he took himfelf ojf from the ol
I Borough jail last night,
he I
is, I On Tuesday arrived here the (hip Juno, ol
re- I captain Hookey, from St. Übes, which
ot I place he left on the 4th of Oft. Spoke in p {
it- kit. - long. 69, ,50. the 14th inft. the j//
on I brig Swallow, Stoddard, fix days out from j a
a- I New-York bound ro Hifpaniola ; had two i }
it- feet water in the hold, and was obliged to
he I throw his deck load overboard. (
re I Captain H. informs that a cutter had ar
in- j rived at Lisbon with dispatches from the Bri
»n, 1 ti(h government to the queen of Portugal, /,
ur-1 the purport of which was to notify, that -
re- I the ratification of the treaty between France p
ing I and Portugal would be considered as a de- r,
I claration of war against Great Britain ; that /
en- J the Englith troops some time since sent out c
for I to Lisbon, had taken possession of the forts r
ing I of that city ; that an Englifli regiment Was I
as J momently expefted at St. Übes when he c
me, J failed; and that they had threatened to take I
in- possession ofthe Brazils. The Frenchcruiz- ■
tain ers continued to take Portuguese vessels in
. 1 fight of their harbours.
RICHMOND, (Virg) December 5.
* Yesterday being the day appointed by law
g for the meeting of the General Assembly of
! tcc j this Commonwealth, a quorum of the House
U of Delegates attended. John Wife, Eiq.
k... waa elefted Speaker, and Mr. John Stewart
Clerk.
CHARLESTON, Nov. 17.
The (hip John, capt. Gooding, left Bour
deaux the 9th September, and the river the
2d of Oftober. The intelligence by the
hotn John, is not so late by several days as we
ef , have before received by' the late arrivals
hael, from England. Capt. G. fays, that the just
was and manly language of President Adams in
>w- his speech at the opening of the extra con
gress, was much admired in Bourdtaux, and
■ that they have since treated the Americans
y. there with greater refpeft, and now style
them Real Republicans.
The difpofitidns of a£reat majorityof the
inhabitants of Bourdeaux are royal, and he
°r.ly believes throughout France, but the liberty
Lan " and equality of their government deprives
■ em ]' them of the liberty of speech—The tyran
pfeV- ny and divisions to which they have been
iloßue fubjeft during the reign.of the successive fac
eller's tion3, and the vast power and ascendancy of
the direftorialtriumvirate dispirit them, with
!T' ch " a dread of new commotions, and the re
aC" turn of the bloody days of Robespierre.
Thirty or forty fail of American 'vessels **'
Jay at Bourdeaux, when the John left it, and 1'
those had been severally carried in as prizes,
but no condemnation as yet had been made
thpre. The
It wa<t supposed that our envoys extraor- j
diriary would not effeft their friendly pur- t[
pofea, unless their powers extended to the a[
fatisfa&ion of all the demand* of Barras and
. Co - • * i c
Xf) t <ga;ette. j
PHILADELPHIA, h
WF.IBN/SOAY EVKXiNG,. fiECL.\}pF.B i.V n
w i 1
The ext»a£ls of letters from an Amen"- f<
can in Europe, publiflied in this day's Gag
zette, contain the molt iatereft' ig and mi- ti
portant satis and obfajuathns. They merit " "
an attentive perusal, and will excite serious' dila
reflections in the mind of every real friend deft
to the Unittd States. difa
inte
The fele&ions for the Theatre this Even- me
ing, are the celebrated Comedy of" Wives (hoi
as they Were and Maidsasthey Are" ed
and ««, the Adopted Child" the former jest
has' never been represented in this City, and '
from its high character will doubtless draw eve
a very full house. the
of i
Died, at Boston, December 5, Mr. Isa- hie
ac Larkin, junior Editor of the (Boston) gu<
Chronicle, aged 26 years. be
GAZETTE MARINE LIST. * ve
ha<
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA. l °
lho
The brig Lovely Lass, Domir.ick, of this th ,'
port from Amflerdam, 78 days, has arrived w "
at B off on.
The brig Brandywine Miller, Capl. Cul- r^l
ver, of this port, from St. Croix, bound home, |
after being 11 days on the coaff, anchored in in £
the Delaware Bay, whereJhe parted her ca-
Vies, and proceeded to New-tori, at vihifh '
port the has fine* arrived P°
I The schooner Swift, Tremmells, of this part f 'i"
! from Martinico and Su Thomas's, after ex- 1 1
perrencing a series of bad weather on the coafl
for 15 days, and loftng the matt overboard, has th
put' into New-Tori.
\ The brig Lively, Cox, of this port, from tn
Bourdeaux, has arrived at St. Thomas s, via
Guadaloupe. .
The ship Adive, —, of and for this «
port, from the Havanna, is taken by the Bri- '
| tifh frigate Topaz, Capt. Church, and sent in- all
to New-Providence.
The brig John, Smith, from hence, has ar- cc
rived at St. Jago de Cuba. Capt. S. writes
that that port was shut againfl all neutral vef- 1 '
' J"els.
. J ei
> HkW-YGSK, PES. 12. '
I AIHIVID , »AVS
- ' Ship Sally, Rand, Liverpool 64 p
" Brig Brandywine Miller, Culver, St. Croixzs
a ° Franklin, Morris, St. Domingo 32
3 I Glory Ann, , . S<- Thomas 21 n
1, Schr. Swift, Tremmels, do. 23 g
II j Friendjhip, Seley, St. John 22 c
rI c
e Capt. 7 remmels, informs, that 17 fail of n
11 American, vessels, have recently been liberated t
1- at Port to Rico in confluence oj orderrfrom \
I France, capt. T. loss his mate on his pqffige. n
s- : Thefhip Sally, capt. Rand, was bouud to t
g Norfolk, but meeting with head winds and hta- v
le \\y gales, 10/ ing two of his men overboard, car- 1
h ryng away his mafls and splitting his fails, was c
ie obliged to put into New-Tori. *
The Brandywine Miller, Franklin, and c
Swift, were bound up the De'aware, but were
0, obliged to put into this port. ' '
:h The brig Polasii, Capt. Par fan a, from this \
in port, bound to C. N. Mole, has been taken by 1
be the French, retaken by the English, and arrived 1
m j at C. N. Mole. The mate hes arrived in the
vo 1 Prosper.
to
Capt. Culver, from St. Croix, ha handed us
ar- the following for publication —
ri- Nov. 13, brig Star, J. Brenchener, lay off
al, this iflandfrom Batavia, 4 months and I day
lat —lafl from St. EuJlatia--lofl one seaman on the
ice passage left his mate lick at Batavia, and his 2d
le- mate very low at St. t ujlatia ; all the reft tf
lat the crew it! health. Also lay off, fchr. Betsey,
Hit capt. Kimball,'of Beverly,gone to leeward■ —
rts no sale at St. Croix for his cargo. Capt. Kim
ras ball, met nothing extraordinary on Ins passage
he out—loft one man overboard, named Paul Aim
ike ball.
Liz- ~
;in New-Theatre,
December (I, 1797-
THE Managers particularly request the con
currence of the public ill the abolition of a
law cuflom, vhieh has hitherto obtained, of giving »
rof way or difpofmg of RETURN CHECKS at the
mfe Theatre. \ ' .
Ifq. They arc aware that gentlemen are unconfciou»
of any wrong done to the interest of the inft'tu
tionby this practice, from a general, though raif
taken idea that Checks are the representatives of a
right to so many feats in the Theatre, durin; an
Evening's Entertainment, and transferable at will;
Mir- when >" f*&. they were never intended as more
t L. p than tohrs by which the Door-keepers are enabled
j* to ascertain with the lead trouble to ihe/w/iw, that
tbey tbemfilves have been before in the Theatre, or
wt p a 'i,j far their admiflron.
vals Independent of the injury the Managers sustain,
just such a practice encourages a croud of idle boys and
• other disorderly parsons to surround the doors of
' S the Theatre,, to the corruption of thtir morals and
con " the great arthoyance of the Audience,
and it has also been the fourcc of two evils of no in
cans considerable magnitude j one I*, that fjroc.imes
flvle very impropar company is by thele mea(li admit
-3 ted ; and the other, that owin, taOtiecks pafling
. , into fiilhoneit hands, they' haVe be_n, frequcualy
: the counterfeifd to a large amount for the purpofesof
dhe Safe. m
lerty This statement will, it Urcfpeflfully hoped, m
r;vcs ducethe Public to discourage such a traffic : ami
the exertions of the Managers will, if thus aflifted,
rran " eafilv prove adequate to its entii? abolition.
been WIGNELL iff REINAGLE.
sac- December 13 IW
:y of
with The City Dancing Assembly,
S re- | s ,inavoiJalilv poflf Oiled till the 14th i»1.
P«. a.
FOREIGN IN 1 KLLIGKNCc.. count
VENICE.
(FROM THE BRUSSELS PAPERS.) MeilC
The greatest interests of Europe are ac this
day agitated in Italy. Whatever tends , '
to makt known Italy, and the men who
are acting a conspicuous part there, (hould
be fought for and recorded. A French
journal, printed at Milan.,entitled " France ~,|
viewed by the army of Italy," furnHhs us
with an article calculated to make us bet- 1 j "
tcr acquainted both with the present sit
uation of Venice, and the genius of the
hero who has changed her destinies. The \f „-
municipality of this city had dispatched
to Buonaparte citizen Dandolo : The '
following is the acciJirnt which Dandolo '
gave to the municipality of one of his in- J lO . c
terviews with the deliverer of Italy': 101
I spoke to the general concerning the . re "'
dilapidation of the different forts of timber ln c "
destined for the service of the navy. He
difappvoved of that practice, teftified much j l .?'
interest; refpeflihg the fubjeft, and assured '
me that at Udina he would giveorderi which 0 ®
(hould be scrupulously refpefted ;he defir-' e
ed me to present him a memorial on the sub- |
. . Lo
" I spoke to him of Ad r ' a > which has p hi e t
ever been considered as an integral part of ed to
the Ex-Dogeate, and at present forms a part
of the department of Padua. He teftified
hie fnrprife at this, questioned general Bara- „- v ,, 5
guey d'Hilliers, and decided that it (hould t [ ca tl
be united to our department. food
" I submitted to him the impoflibility we }>' cn
were under of arming with brass guns, as he
had required, the five (liips which wc were the ;
to furnifh him. He consented that they j W eat
(hould be armed partly with iron guns, and of h
that their armament (hould be completed ' ,e '!v
with brass ones.
" I a(ked him, with the franknefs of a A
re publican speaking to a republican, whether tled
the direftory had consented to the occupy- revo
ing oflftriaand Dalmatia by the Auftri- Thc
ans ? He answered mp, ho ; and as I in
filled on thi«'{joint, lie repeated td' tne so J lei
positively that I was quite persuaded. He of n
questioned me eoscerning the disposition of whi
those provinces, the facility of taking Za-
ra by a landing, and told me to bring hitn
the topographical maps of the country. <•
" I informed hiro, that the people of If- kna
tria were very ardent tcbe free, and to be risa
united with Venice ; that the Sclavonians of
the coasts were very discontented with the
. Auftrians, and that the warlike tiation of tiotl
the Albanefe would repel our enemy, with cro'
. all its force. "
"I did not forget to speak to him con- d . 1
ccrning the mufquets of which our national wh
r guards are in such want. He answered me «
_ that Venice wss to equip with all speed wh
three battalions of the line, to complete the opt
eighteen, or thereabouts, to be furniftied by
our brethren of Italy ; that three thousand
1 stand of arms would be requifitc for that p r ,
(. pnrpofe, and that we might freely dispose <
; of the remainder.
1 " I spoke to himof the confiscations pro-
1 nounced by our commiflion against some
5 guilty persons, and which meet with diffi- 1
2 cultiea in their execution on the part of the de
constituted authorities of th« other depart- v »
1f ments—of the necessity of a central commit
d tee, conipofed of all the deputies of the e*-j tui
m Venetian (late, to unite its different depart- e d
t. ments, to remedy a thousand evils, and "re
to forma number of particular administrations, ||j
1 - whose operations are very expensive, and of 1
r- little utility. He assured me of his entire br
js consent to all these mpafures, and that in a w
few days I should fee the whole put in exe
id cution. *
re " I informed him of the use we hai made
of the economical, political and commercial
th picture of Venice, the happy result which
by it offered, and the publication we were go- A
ed ing to make of it. He immediately allied
he me for a copy of it, and promised me to ; H
read it with great attention. Fi
" His carriage was ready: he. was going _
us tofetout, when, after having conversed an
hour and a half, he questioned me again con
off cerning the pub'ic spirit which prevailed at
'ajr Venice. A Patriotic Society, well inten
the tioned, and diffufing • Republican energy—
-2d a Civic Theatre, well diredted, inspiring
if democratic sentiments under the veil of plea
}y > sure—our pubh'c fittings daily enlightening
the people of their true interests, the spirit
\m- which animates us all--—this, said I, is what
2ge vffiljly civilizes the country, and renews the
m- brilliant days of Its splendour.
' MILAN, Sept. 8.
The People of Udina, finding that the ,
French Commiflioners had imposed a milita
ry contribution upon them which they were
on - not able to pay, sent Deputies to make re
' 1 presentation of their cafe to Buonaparte.
f t he The General advised them to fell the pro
perty of the Church, and apply it to the
ous discharge of the
itu- observed the Deputies, " who will venture
to purchase such property; Will the provi-.
a „ fional Administrators take upon themselves
■ill ; to preside at the sale, or to guarantee its
lore validity?"—" E/itirtain no dtftrufl." said
kled Buonaparte, " Tou Jhall certainly be made
that free," It may be inferred from this affur
'°r ance, that the French government has deter
tain, mined not to cede any,part of the Terra
and Firma of Venice to the House of Austria,
3 of and that therefore the re-commencement of
and hoftilitits is inevitable, if the Cab' ll ® l of
, ; n . Vienna persists in its claims.
imes A translation of the work of the Citizen
mit- 1 Reveilliere-Lep eaux, on the liberty of wor
(hip, has just been published here. A tran
r'lllyr flation of Thomas Paine's Letter is printed
along with it. Both of these writings are
!, in- read with great avidity by all the Irieruh
ami j of I iberty and fourid Philosophy.
Jfted,
FERRARA, August 29.
The Ex-Jefuitshave been all provifional
1W ly deprived of their pensions. They are
compelled to appear before the magistrates,
' ar.d give in the ir names, their ages and their
c-mpioyirents.
Tiic Direfiory have required an ei'aa ,
count of all the Monk* and Ntms* and eri'ti
the smallest benefices. It aupe.uii that alt
the Convents, and particular!)' thafe of tiW .
Mendicants, ate uptm-ths £»« of a Rt*oiu->
tion ; and many confidently state, that be» i
fore the end of Oftober, all thefs eCabiii!;-
raents will have ceiafed to exist.
ROME, Aijguft 26. »'
The trials of tha Conspirators proceed vdi
ry (lowly. More persons ate arreiled» bud
they are not treated with the rigour which
our Government ha 3 been accuftoiiied to
practice in fitnilar cases. When Genetal
Mufat art ived, it was expceled that Bunna*
parte had fcnt him to derhand the liberty of
all the prilonersi The event, however, has
not confirmed this eonjeftute. Tfie Revo
lutionists of this City complain that the
French Miniftef Cacault did not intercede
in their favour j but the friends of the Go
vernment extol .hia con dud, and fear he wul
not be replaced by a person fo'much to their ;
liking. He has been presented with a fine
Mosaic pifture, which he intends to fend to
the Municipality of Nantz, .
LONDON, September 30.
Lord Rokeby. who has jlifl publiftied a pam
phlet «n tin; present date of the country, address
ed to the county of Kent, is, perh?ps, one of tie
most fingnlar men in the kingdom heis upwards
of 80years of age ; for the latt'ia he has let hi» 1
bsard grow ; it teaches down tdhis middle, and
ijives him the ait of a Patriareh : he is constantly
clcathcd in a suit of the eoar feil woolen yarn j his
food is of the iftoft lingular bcinj? princio-.1-ly
ly compelled of raw beef (leaks, over . hich soil
ing water is' poured 1 this he has brought to him
,every moruirg for breakfaft. after hjv:ti£ been in
the cold bath, where he daily ijnmr rges. let the
J weather beaver fit intensely cold The excellence
of his private chara<SUr mak"< him beloved in the
neighborhood where he r'fid . about 16 nv.W
from Canterbury, so which p'.ice he frequeetly
waltis.
A pamphlet has been puV.lifiied at Paris, enti
tled—" A lift of the cieputi-, g own rich Gil. "
revolution, and an account of thcii {ecrvi ir-
The auchor, after fomc general r* .
present lUte of Prases, in which he aft ft* 0>
rwch republic, vtf*. 1
;le, has neverthelcfi, i/om the 3 n ■-
of manntrs, all the fyraptotw. of -
which diflinjruilhed ancient Rome *r
iog to herdiff»lution, give; inaccou 11
fciflktors, and permit, •
madeimtr.cnfefortunesfincethe r.-v;
" What (hall 1 fay " fays he, - c <J
■ knavilh pettifogger, Thibaude u
ris almost naked, and who has found :. -.
f chafe in his own country an estate vywth m
400,0001. furniture worth more than fob.'
I wardrobe worth more than 30,0001. withe 11
tioning his reads calh, amounting to 100
t crowns ?
" How (hall I paint the fortune of Pattoret, w'
display his optllence in delicate and voluptuous ;•
, ties with the handfotneft courtezans of fa:tj<
whom he laads with presents ?
: " Shall I speak of Ramel, the mtnifter of linage,
1 whose fcandaloui fortune surpasses that of the most
e opulent mstfiied men of Paris, who never payshis
debts, and dates moll barefacedly to.cry out miie
-1 ry, though he purchased near Tours the n«bie cf
tate of Lariviere, formerly belonging to th,e fir ;
} PreCdent, the Usurer d'Aligre ?
e " Who does net know Camos, who has nr.' cf»
many falfe reports, and embezzled our finances ?
( Would you believe that this harpagon his more
than two millions in lands, and furniture fu ting a
[ e prince ?
1- '• The family of Villetard is well known in ci
te devant Burgundy. Villetard, a deputy, from a
t_ vintner's waiter, has become a Member of the com
j nittees, wlvre he has a.ade fraudulent e«He<Stionf»
with which he has purchlled the cattle and furni
tare of a wealthy bilhop ; his wife is. richly <Wck-
I" ed »ut with diamonds.
e- " All Europe knows the elegant DutioJard,
s that never ceasing babbler who defended Tic royal
ist catifefo well, for which he took care to bt welt
paid ; who was to have emigrated, 'and gone to
rc brin» Monsieur back in triumph. This Dumoiard
a was merely an attorney's clerk."
e
r ' ' i-m
TO LET,
A Front Room, i'uitable for an
Office or. Counting houie, with a large CellaV.
°. Any person who may rent the above, may (it re
quired) be accommodated with Board aijd Lb.ijf
to ing i i the fame house. Enquire at no. 180, youth
Front, near Pine street.
n(T D jeemher 13. 3awyv
an For bale by the Sublcriblr,
> n " 10 bales Codas
at ;o do. Baftas
■ n . IX do. Mamoody
11 do. Chintz
7 do. Tookery
n S 1 do. Gorahs
ea- 45 do. MeragungeeS
ing 3 do. Check Stripes
[ r jt I do. Guzzie
l t 1 box Diapers
, 7 do. Umbrellas
tfie IS pipes fined: particular Madeira Wine, tif
the vintag; 179 J.
MORDEGAI LEWIS.
December f. 3iw4w
;" ta . Philadelphia and LancafterTurn
ere pike Company.
re- nnHE Stockholders are hereby notified, that the
rte. 1 annual Ele&ion for O-fficers for the ensuing
>ro- year,will be held at the in Phi!a
---1 dclphia, on the lecond Monday in January next, at
99 I® o'clock, a. m. Wm, GOVETT, Sec'ry.
lt > December 7 at»mScwt7l
ure 4 '
ovi- Geenteel Boarding &JLodging.
Ives /V Family may be accommodated with a Draw
. ; ts il irig Room, two Bedchambers, and suitable
r■ 1 accommodation for fe^vants—at no. 5J,' north
7 Fourth ftrsst. Dec. »tts
laae ——
Tur- This Day is Publimed,
;ter- BY Mess. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric c , and the
crra other Booksellers,
, Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
nia 'r Elcanl'i pnuted on WuVf paper, and HsS'
t ° * prejfed,
■ By Tohn Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE, VIEW Of
The Constitutions
tran- Of th» fever*! States witKeach other, and with
, lt „J that of the United States:-exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of each Constitution and
! are classing together their molt imps runt provwons
tends t he several heads of admioiftratioo ; with
tJotes and Obfcrvations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of Suuth-Caroi'tni,
tonal- L L. D. and member of the Congress of tVe
UnitcdStates.
3ie Dedicated to tha People of ths United Stares,
rates, N. B A few Copies ptirr.tfd an ar. inferior p<ir
* their per, at 3»4thsof a •
February A rr v< " lA farm for Tale,
IN Perth in the state of New-Jersey,
of f«ur hundred a - r es, including a proper
proportion of meadow, of arable anil wood
ian'ri, and fait knarlh : There is on the premises,
a good apple orchard, and a variety ot other
fruit trees, it is well watered with ipfirgs and
brooks, it is bounded on two fides with navi
gable waters and has a good mill site, its ntua
t-oh is healthy and pleasant, commanding a
view of the navigation of Perth Ambay and its
environs, and «onVenient to the fined fifh aiicj
oyflere in thtir proper feafoii, it abounds with
natural .iiMP. jre fram which, wi(h the advanta
ges. oj thp fall marsh by applying the hay there
from' to the keeping of itock, may at a small
expense, be enriched to a grt-at degree and ren
dered one of the firft'grazing farms in the state ;
it .s welt calculated for a farmer or a gentle
man's feit, having several eligible sites for
buddiijg. This farm will l)e fold together or
dr idee!, as ihay suit a purchjfer, at private
sale, or if not fold, will be fct ip at public auc
tion on 'fuafday the nineteenth-day of Decem
ber next, the house of Robert Rattoone, inn-
SieepeV in Perth Ambcry, at eleven o'clock in
the foreroon. Any perl'on inclining topurchale
ioay view the premises by application to John
or Mattbiftt Hal/led at Perth Amboy, from
whem or from the Hon. Jonathan Dayton, Esq.
' speaker of the house of representatives of the
Upited States now in Philadelphia, from Mat
thias l' illiainfoii,)\in. efq. or Mr. Samuel Smith
at Elizabeth-Town further mfsrmation may be
obtained, —and who are poflcfied of maps of
' th<* fame.
Perth Amboy, Nov. 16, 1797-
> oj —rodtißD
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, propjfing to contrast his bufi
oefs. oiferi this EfUte for sale, on moderate
terms., On it are ooe Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing'Machine, and a very good grift
ftjitf, .vim two pair of iloni j i also a good Forge, all
in pcrfctl repair, as are all the Water Worljs connect
ed with thrfe various branches. The An Furnaces
wrie lately built for the purpdfe of cafiihg Cannon
fur this State.—There are about fcwo thou land acres
of .Laud, one bass of which is unde( wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the bed Hay a;id
Riflure. The Canrton lately manniadbired there,
tully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
Superior to inu in this country, and probably, equal
to any in ihe world ; for riot one of iixty-mi e fans
lately made, although fotne of the 24 were bored
{lllO3l pounders,have failed tfo proving'. The fl U
arion is very eligible, pellicular,y for ibis branctf of
mauufaflari-, and a. place of Itrms lying in the (late
of Corinefticui, and only 30 miles from several land »
ings on the HudfoJs taver,and having every advan
tage that.can result fr*m a pltnty irf water ilfuing
frortl a Urge natural pond, very near the Furnate,
aud which may be converted into a variety ot other
ufeful pui poles. The purchaser can be accommodat
ed wi;b all the ftonk and utensils, and have poffeflion
on or before,the fii ft of June next, and prepar.tion
may be made in themrantime for going into Blast im
mediately thereifttr, for every patt will be delivered
in good order, with some coll, Ore, &c. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr. Jolcph Anthony, in Philadel
phia ; Davi J BroolU, ETq. one of the Representatives
in Corgrefs for this State ; Mr, D«vid Watutnan, on
Iheprtinifes, or to the proptietor in New-York.
whxiAki neilson.
Dee, t. 3»wtf
House and Lots, in Bcrdentozvn.
rfO BE SOLD, a handsome two story House.
X with the Lot on which it is ereile J, situated
abdb: the middle of the beautiful indliealthy
Village of Bordentown. The house is forty two
sett front, and in neat order. The lot contains
one acre, and is one hundred feet op the main
lire-*, and extends with the Ume breadth toback
ft.rt.et. Also, a Urge Lot, containing nearly fo»r
acres, separated from the former by buck flreet.
One »hird only of the purchase money will be re
quired Upon executing a deed, and for the re
mainder, such credit will be given as the purchase
er may chwXe. This property will be fold fr«a •-
all incumbrances, and an indifput.ible title givesf
For further particulars enquire cither of Dr.
William Barnes, refniing in iWdentoym, near,
the premises, who will lhew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, no. 144, Maiket-ftrect.
December a.
Real iiftate for
A PLANTATION, in a healthy and good si-
Buation on Chester Creek, in Middleten
Town & ip, Delaware County, containing 1191
acres, upwards of 50 acres of which are wood
land, well timbered ' the remainder plough land'
and watered meadow —of the latter, tuany more
acres can be made at a small expence. There are
on said premises, a good orchard of bell grafted
frui[, a house, with.afpring near the door, a frame
bam with stabling under, anl a log tenement on
oiie part of said place ——Any p.-rfon inclining
to-parchafe; mar view the premises by applying
to W'm. Pennbll, on said farm, and know the
terms by applying to Jon at man Pen n ell, in the
borough oi Chester.
November 21. 3* e<> d
To be fold,
An ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
story brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irilh trail lane, in the
township of'Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for talle and
elegance, Hand unrivalled.
December T. dtf
All Persons who are indebted to
theeftate of William Hetsham, fep, ol Phila
delphia, deceased, are requeued to make speedy
payment; and those who have any demands a
gainst said estate, will please to present them, pro
perly attested, to the fubferibers.
William Heyfhpm, 1
Rthert Hey/ham. J- Executors.
Francis Bowes Sayre, J
m-rnlcr 6. iaw4W
~ LAW BOOKS,
J*ateft London and Dublin Editions.
H. P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and No, 50, Market ilreet,
HAVE just received by the late arrivals irom
London and Dublin, their fpriitg importa
tion, confiftingef a variety of the latelt and most
approved Law Books, which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, form s the most extensive coUeflion ev
er offeredfor sale in this country. They theicfore
beg leave to notice, that from tjic nature of their
conne&knsin Dublin, they ire enabled to felllriih
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
Ictweft prices- The following are among the lateit
publications. -jd
Vefey, juf'rs .Reports in Chancery, v...3.
Peake's Cases at Nili Prius ; Uidgeway's Rcj»or»i
in the time of Lord Hardwictta ; t'loyer's Procters
Pradice in the EcclaCatlical Courts ; Barton's
Treajife' 011 a Suit in Equity ; I'idd's Practice of
the Court of King's Bench in Personal Adlions, 2
parts ccvnplete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
011 Ufci ; modern Reports, 11 vols. London edi
-1111. and P.RicE.oxpefl to receive by the firfl ar
rival fi'om New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and Baft's Reports, the id part of Gil
beit's Law of Evidence by Loft, anda number of
new publications.
June i 6.
| A person well acquainted with
j thethcoryand t >rasl ; .ccofhouk-i.«criVi:;,wboW.ctf
many y€»iis ngagtd ih bannclVtorhimielf and other*,
would be gla:! to b-employe'., either as an agent
or ln'?.or ; or in potting books ; "wrsfettied
accounts ;or in« execu-mg any Other kind.oi writ
ing, in French or Enjrii.vu
A note adJieffed to J- A. and Itft at this office,
will be pun&uaiiy attended to.'
november 30. 3awtl
■ —— ——
'fHo ma s Randall,
PRESENTS his refpeili to his Friends, and the
Public in gentrf.!, iainrir. them that hehasop ni-d
an Office, at Us house, ,No. 88, Spince ftre:t, for
l]tc purpose of traiifailing biilin-.fs in the line ot
Commiflton and Agency, cofle&ng t'ents and out
ftanditig claim- in any part ot the United Stares.—
He flatters himfeif, that from his long residence in
this country and a general knowledge of it, hisftr
cices wilt be found worthy ths notice of those who
may plcafe (o confide t* him the iWf.agement of
any of their concerns.
N- 8- Security given where required,
"iithmou Jtawtf
FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber, at his store, No. 75, So«th
I Water-ftrer.t,
I A general affortmsnt of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattins
, Do. do. ljHteftrifigs
Do. d#. Handkerchiefs
Do. do. fewinj^SUiis
Imperial and Hyson Teas
Long and short Nankeens
Quick Silver, in tubs
Halland Gin, in pipes
Assorted Clais Ware, in cases
White and brown Havanua Sugars, in boxes
Molafles, in hogflieada
St. Croix Rum and Sugar, in do.
London particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quarter calks
Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chcfts
Logwood, &c. &c.
7.—tu&f4w JOSEPH SIMS.
For Salq, by the Package,
For calh, or good notes at sixty or ninety days,
V' 2.
Book and Jaconet Muslins plain
Qripes, and Checks ' AITorUd in
do. do. Tamboured ]> ,
do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & | P ac a K es '
gentlemen's neck do. J .
Jaconet chintz mtiffin for home and the Weft
India market, Fnllieote and linen handkerchiefs,
(for do. do printed do. do- common purple and
chintz shawls.
The above goods entitled to drawback on ex
portation. Also a few fcotchcambricis and an
assortment of muffin lay the piece. *>
The whole of the above being a confignipcnt
from the manufaijlurers in Britain.
To be seen at William BlAcKburn's
Office, No. 64, SoOth' Second Streitj
Nov. 6. aSwtf.
"no :r ice.
Stockholders of the Dank of the United
1 States, are informed that according to the
ftatiite of Incorporation a general Election for
ttrenty fiv# will be held attheßank
of the United States in die City of Philadelphia,
on Monday the firft d#y of January nejU at tan
o'clock irr t be torenocn.
Atjd pursuant to the £leventh feflion of the
Bye Laws the Stockholders of the fai l Bank
arc hertby-notified to aiTenihle in general Meet
ing at the fame place on Tuesday the second
day of January next at live o'clock in the E
veain;;.
By ofder of the Board rif direiflors,
G. SIMPSON, Calhier.
Second fundamental Article.
Not more than three fourths of tne Direflors
in office, exe'ufive of the President, Ihall be e
legible for the next fucceetling year, but the
Diredlor who (hall be President at the time of an
Ele<slion nyy always be re-eletfled.
Philadelphia, nov. iS. 1797. f tE
"N()r 1 T: K.
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAFs
and EDWARD FOX's 'Engagements
TN cotafequertce of many having been prevent-
Aen, from late unavoidable circumftanceSfrom
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. Truftees now inform them, they
are ready to iflue the lame to those who may ap
ply within fixtydays, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, will beconfidercd aa re
linquilhine their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided lor their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THOMAS VV. FRANCs,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLE Y,
JACOB BAKER.
r.o-vember, 43. tuthJcfim.
. NOTICE.
THE partnerlhip between John Instonx and
James Bacon, under {ha firm of Inftonc and
Bacon, w thi3 day diflolved by mutual consent.
All persons who stand indebted to said firm are
requested to make immediate payment of their
rtfpcilive atcnunts, to John SKYaiH, on Landen
burger's wharf, who is duly authorised to receive
the fame ; and all perfotis having any demands a
gainst the said firm, are desired. to-bring in their
accounts immediately to him for fcttlement.
John Injldne,
James Bacon.
November 10. eodtf
To be Sold,
A Valuable Plantation,
GkF upwards of One Hitudred Acres of Land,
' wi*ll watered, in a healthy situation, about
fevca miles from this City ; the buildings may be
made to accotr.modate a large family, at a mode
rate expenfc, and poffeflion lud in a few weeks*
Part »f the purchase-money being plid, a reason
able credit will be allowed for the remainder.
Enquire of tho Printer,
november % mwftf
FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK, '
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A quantity of Clocks and
Watches. A'fn, a general afiorrment of Tools,
Biles and Materials, caafifting of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and f«rge work ; Bells, clock and w#ch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glasses, Punice Stone, Emery,
Rotten Stone, Cat Out-; ftanvl and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals,Keys, 3cc.
Apprenticts Wanted.
November J. f&tutf
The History of Pennsylvania,
Bv ROBERT PROUD,
IS npw in the press, and will be
with all convenient expedition, by ZtCHA
rjah Pou lson, jttn. No. 80, Cliefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where lubCcript.xns will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,,
according lo the printed propofah, until the
work is ready for the i'ubfi riberi.
July 18. tewtf
Engliili Grammar,
The Jccond edition, sifts impravsnvenls,
A DAP i'EO to the diff-rent claffcs of learners ;
Willi an appendix, containing ruies ants ft>-
fervatioas for af'Ktiug the moi'e advanced ftudeiits
t>), write with nerfpicuity and accuracy,
By LINDLEY MURRAY.
" Thi» is a publication of much merit, and full)"
anpwets ttw pro r jfli»ns in the Title, 'i he appen
dix contains some of the beit rules for tvriting e
legantly, and with propriety, that V.-e recoiled to
have seen."
Monthly Review, 'fitly 1796.
" Tlijis. Grammar is, on irtany accounts entitled
to camiui ndatoiy notice, its materials bave been
carefully and judicially feleited ; its jtfaaiigrment
.is diftir.it and well adapted to jhefurpofe if! 111-
flrafiior. and its exprcflion is finiple, .pcrtpfcuous
and accurate, &c\."
See tfa eharaßer ctl large in iki Analytical
Rcvieiv, tjuly 1700 : ». <"
EjjgMi lycetcifes,
i i Adapted, .ttKlhe Grammar lately pu Mi (he'd by
Murray, confifKajf 1 of exemplification of
t'he parts gf /peect inftatilesof falfd orthography,
vi&latians-of the rulsss of fjfdcax, defects in punc
tuation, and violations of the rulej r-efpedling
perspicuity and accuracy, defiKned f»r the benefit
of private learners, as well us lor theuft of fchodh.
" VVu havabeen much pleased with the petyfal
of these Exetcifes. 1 hey occupy withoiltinguifh
ed excellence a mod important place in the fcicnce.
of the English language; and as fucl|, we can
warmly recommend them to the 'fieach rs of
Schools, as well 84 to all those who are desirous of
attaining eorreitnefs and precision in jthoir native
tongue." . I
Monthly Review, 1797-
The above Books are for lale at Josfcpn & James
Crukshanks, book ftord*, No. 87, Market IjLrect.
December 1. 3taw2w.
N, o T i c t..
AI.L perfcns concerned are hereby notified,
that the fnVifcriber intends to apply for a rj
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of
Stock in the Bank of the United States—He for*
warded them under cover of a letter to
John Anfley.of London, by the ftiip Bacchhs, capt.
George, which left this port in Jane lift for Lon
don. Jhit that Clip having been captured on her
paffagc andfentto France, the above letter and m
clofures have failed in their dsftinatiou.
TbVce certificates, viz.
Nos. 26335, 26326, 26327, each sot
four (hares, dated January ift, fjgj, and
issued in the natne of Heury Tot
tenham. Highcpofs, Great Britain.
ZACCHEtTS COLLINS.
Pllljrtelpbta, itowrrt&er 8. Saw6w
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in pr near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a (soger »»rtu. Inquire of th« Printer.
Odt. 17. eotf
A Compting House to let.
A Mod convenient Compting House is now for
hire on Rofs's wharf, directly over the arch.
Far terms, apply to .
Samuel Breci, jun.
No. 89, fou'.h Third itrcet.
Where may be had,
A few bales of Ravens Duck, and about 100
pieces of flout Canvass ; a small quantity of Mace,
and fomc high proof" Brandy ; Sherry Wine, Cho
colate in boxes, Window Glass of various sizes
and dimenfimis. Dec. I.—eo6t
Samuel & Miers Fisher,
ARE NO* OPF.KING,
At th«ir Warehouse, No. 27, Dock Street, a frefh
aflbrtmcnt of Woolen and other goods, fimablc to
the fexfon, *ecfcived by the late arrival! from Eng
land.
They have also ftr, Sale,
Lisbon
f and quarter calks-
Port Wines, J
Alforteil queen's ware in crates, &c.
10th mp* 23d. > dfw3taw3w.
James C. Sff Samuel W. Fisher,
AT THE'R STORE,
No. 13, corner of Arch and Front streets,
HJrE FOR SAIK,
Cotton and w.orfted Hosiery in trunk s, assorted
A few bales red, white, and yellow flannels
Ditto futt romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
Ditto Poodicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurrahs
Bengal black Taffetics
4000 piece* Nankeens, and
Few cheftsWt Hyson T«a
Alfo —Ispo boxi s best London Window Glass,
ftom 8 by 6, to 19 by r4 —and i.? hhds. Glass
Ware, assorted, which they wili difpofc of cheaper
than any in the city.
at. jjawtf
Imported (via New York) on the
ship Hero, from Madrai and Calcutta, and for
sale by the fabferiber, at N.a. Cl, Ghsfnut flrtet,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
Mahaiyg'onges Charcoona Dorens
Ciiintz ayd Cilicoes Dtcca wdrked muslins
Grtlis Roim'.s Btndannoes
Ni'las &. Peufiifocs Chafla Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
MullMullhankcrchiefs Palemporei
Patna do. Einares Opium
Lesser Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilccx
no'vember a 7 tuths4w
FOR SALE, bj
Joseph Anthony Co.
No. 5, Chefrut Stjreet,
A cargo Of choice Bourdeaux Brandy, Ift and ad
proof, just lan led
250 bales of Boutbon cotton of a superior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy black ]>epper in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the fir ft qualify
High proof Jamaica (pints
Old London particular Madeira wine In pipes &
do. market do qr. fafks.
New England rum in hogsheads
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret in cases
Spermaceti ean iles and ftrain'd oil
Piime 3oflou bepf. ,
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrels
Do Herrir.rindo do
Befl Bolton Macltarel id barrtls of the fall fare.
NL'.v-F.nglanci
A fe'i*
Rufftn f?ath r bisd'i
Glower and Timthy feeii.i ;alks
Lttg v,-hs'e-ho:;['
No 1, 2, and 3, Bolton fail duck
A few ihelts firft qmlity Hyson tea
Carolina rice in Xviiole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dufch hollow glass ware.
N >vemb«r 8. dqw.
400,000 weight of chcice St. Do
mingo CO I'FEE,
FOR -SALE BV
JAMES YARD.
'novembcr 22. diet
For Sale,
That well known place, called Vandsgrivt's
FPU I T,
Nelhamir.y creek, 21! miles frmin Phila-
Kj> litlelphia, on the Nev? Tork post road,
containing 74 'acres and 94 perches. Upon the
pcemifes are a large two ttqry ftane house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame {table with a good thrclhing
floor, and some out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a molt elegant Situation fora gentle
man's ffcat, commanding » view of" the Nefham-
to its jun&ipn wiih'the Uelawaif, and thpnee
to the Jerfcy jfcore, ft'lsaa the privilege
of oiie half the toil received from the lujdgc.
For terms apply to the Sn'^crlb^r,
,Vay
Fji" sale or to let on grouild
rent,
Lai of Ground ;
SI TUATE on the nortU-eaftcorner of VVai
nut and Fifth flreets, fronting the State-
House square. Thia. lot fifry-one feet front
on Walnut flreet, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half 011 Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry And Salfafras
streets, containing in front on' Water flreet fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thcfe houlcs
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a verydefirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour sailor.or others who
may have occafioh for fjorage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
forcafh. For further information apply to the
printer. I
July 31. m&wtf
Juji Publijbcd,
And to be hid of Messrs. BoMbn, Campbill,R!ce,
Cary, and the ether prfcipal Bookfcliers in the
city .price one dollar, ttvinty-five cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nation 3 of America.
By "BENJAMIN SMTJIH BARTON, m. d.
Jane 20. ■ "fa
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUN G,
No. 52, Second-flreet, corner Chefnut-flreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large afTort
mcnt of English, French, Latin and Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, such elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in tj»e aca4emies
and colleges throughout the United States.
lAtelv published,
Sheridan's Diftionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo pricey dols.
Ditto, large 12 mo. prica j dol. 7; ets.
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50cts.
All fqjts of drawing, packing, printing, arid
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Pasteboards,
sheathing and blottihg Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Book 9, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, of
the be ft quality, used in'tic counting house, or
public office.
Catalogue* of a miscellaneous colleflion of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. OA. 24.—3aw6w
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage starts ftom the GEORGE Tavern,
at the cornet- of Second and Arch Streets, in
'Philadelphia, eVcly Tutfdai, Thutftlay, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, ia the rrcynirg ; arrives at Do
ver the firlt day, at Snowhfll the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the paffengcrs find
a fafc and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leave* Norfqlkfor Northampton feiry,
every TucfdtyS Thurfiay and Saturday, and thir
Stige starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wedn*fday and Friday {puts up at Snow
Hill fhefirft night, at Dover the ad night,and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
she distance cn this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is to miles lei's than on any ftjige rflfite
between those places.
Too much cannot befaid in favor of the road,
which is molf excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
palTenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the faint
distance, so good a road in ASicrica.
Anguft 11. dim.tot^.
City of Walhington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
Atrugniflceatdwellttig-houfc aojOOodclUrs,
& cash 30,000, ire j0.00.i.
1 ditto is,ooo & cafli 25,000 40,q0»
1 ditto 13,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto iq,ooo & <afc 10,000
1 ditto j,OOO & cash 5,000 io.Ooc.
1 ditto 5,090 & cash 5,000 !o,i»oo
t calh prize of «0,000
1 do. 5,000 each, ire_ • 10,000
IO do. 1,000 - - lO,OOe
JO do. iOO - - 10,000
00 do- 100 - - tOjOno
200 do. 50 ■ * 10,000
400 do. 25 - - 10,000
X»ooo do. 20 - 20,000
15,600 do. 'o - '5»iOoo
?ri?fs.
33,261 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,00 c
N. B. Tofavour those who /nay take a quan
tity of Tickcts.the prize of 40,Oo6dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but oni :
Andapprovcdnotes, securing payment in either
mousy or prizes, in ten days attcr drawing, will
be received fox any number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets. '
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpecimer. dl
the private buildings to be erc<sted 111 the City of
Washington—Two beautiful designs are already
lele&cd for the entire fronts 011 two <jf the public
squares; frpm these drawiagv it ispropofed toereil
tv/ocf utreand 'ourcerHer buildings,as soon isfOP
fifileafter this Idttexf" isfo'ld, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adver.turvrs, in
the manner described in the fchcme for the Kote:
lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the neeefTary expenses of prijn.t
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made, a j>art us
the'fund intended for c-he Natianal Umverti'ty., to
be erected within the city of Wafliiagton.
The realfecuriticsgivcn for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the Pi'efident and two Dire-ft
ors of tke Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lattery.
SuikUßL BLOPQJiT.
,5, Tickets may be had at the Biuik of Cohslri-
Jiia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Feter
Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond :
«nd bf Rickard Walis, Cooper's Feriy. o«ri
FOR SALE,
by the sue*Cßißtas, No. al, Pinn-Hreet,
Tpe Cargo of the Ship Ganges^
John Green, commander, fiorn Bengal,
Cot'JiJiing of
Baftas, of various qualities & prices
Ccfiaes Punjutn Cloths
Sanahs do.
Humhums Charconna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanjife»
Chintz and Caiic.es Mulmuli
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges Patna Hhkfi.
Ginghams Mulrrul do.
Guzzciias Bandannoss
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Pi.niafcoes Choppa Romaja
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Persians of various colours
Mock Pulicats
ico tom SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
fillings £3* Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Gaq£<?s arc now ofpen and exposed to sale st
that commocJious (lore the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth flireet. Nov. 10.
landing]
From on board thefliip Cleopatra, Saftjuel Newel],
(rem London, *
60 tons of the befl clean Russia
HEMP *
60 raiks of bottled BROWN STOUT.
F otSale by the fubferihers, No. 11, Ptnn-HrSet.
Willings & Francis.
Oil, 31. , d
just arrived,
From Porl-au-Prince, and for Sale b/ the fiAfcri
bers, No. 21, Penn-ftreec,
6 <2 hogflieadi,"}
Prime Coffee
646 bags J
WiUings & Francis.
oa. a g. ' § „
J FOR SALE—by the SuuscßißtßS,
, An elegant ailbrtmerit of Madrafs
HANDKERCHIEFS, by the bale.
WILLINGS JSf FRANCIS,
nov. ai. J fenn-ftreet.
""" ~ ~~T'FOR "SALE;
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, firft quality, in
pipes
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pijes
, Lisbon WINE, in pipes
CLOVESnnd 1 , , - . . , !
[ NUTMEGS f °*' he lateLtimportariQn, in boxes
5 Spsnilh Wool, in Bales, suitable for Hatters.
5 WiUings & Francis,
Mo. at.
Nov. I. <w&st£
A Journeyman Hair-Drefier,
WHO is sober and steady, and underflaad*
his hulinefs, may 'have immediate em
ployment; on application to GEQRQE AB
BOTT, No. 9, Chefuut-ftreet. r.o-v.3,7.4.
f eodiw.
r Imported in thejhip Man chest er,
f Benjamin 2TB~e w 'Maller,
j From Bourdeaux, and for tale by the ftibfcriber,
No. ji Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy "J
Ir*ifh market claret in cases Entitled to
1, Medoc wine, in do. ( Drawback.
n Sauterne, do. do. J
I Thomas Murgatreyd.
t WHO rfAS" FOR SALE.
™ Sherry Wine in pi'pes and quarter calks
! Rota do. do.
Pimento in bag»'
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
• j Aug. 24. tut&stf
' • Pkale's Museum.
d
THIS vah.able repolitory of the works of Na
ture, so well calculated to delight the mini)
0 and enlarge the Understanding, is opened daily, at
ufiial. It (lands in an airy and healthy foliation,
< and free from the epidemic that at present afflidtw
- s ' the city ;it m;\) , tHerdore, be frequented witl>
Y the greated fafety.
As an Aivufcment, the (ti/dy of Nature is t'ov
t ' mofl rational and pleating : as a Sciente, the most'
sublime and iullruditfc. It elevatasthe mind and'
expands the heart. They
" Hold ■converse."
Many inter.-sting .additions have lately been
made to this Mnfsum : and the feathered tribe,
containing a variety 6f the most rare and beautiful'
fubjeifls, is now very advantageously arranged*
Waxen Figures,of Men large as lift (ioine o{ thtm
s- casts from liatufe') are here drefled in their proper.
y habits, and placed in attitudes cbara<9eri<9ic o£their
i. refpc<£live nations. Here may be fees the North
-10 American Savage, and the Savago of South-Ameti
o ca—a laboring Chiii'tfe, -and the Cbinefe
f man—the sooty African, and the Kamtfchadalc—
K, with feme Natives of the South Sea 1 (lands. Ijh.
0 immense variety and intsrefting diversity which
l 0 this Museum offers to the View, may be seen hue
eannotbc described. with full effc<Sl.
r n P r ' cc only t-4th of a dollar.
o Heyt. 28. law
o Davis's Law Book Store,
o No. 319, High-Strest.
GEORGE DAVIS,
T>EING busied for some time past in jlreparat
.. JLJ lions for removing into his [ relent Uoufe, has
been under thcneceffity of ptiftpomng'until this day
infermingthegelltleinen ofthe Bar generally thro"
0 the United States, that his spring importation of
~ law books is now arranged and ready for (ale, 0:1
terms that he truils will entitle hjin to fchslikt pre.
c freence he has experienced'for leveral years past.
7 Catalogues, combining the mod varied coilec
tionevsr imported i<!to this country, are prinretj
' r and will he delivered on application.
■■ June 27. law
[- : 1 '
j, Boston Glass Manufactory.
jf r I~ I HE citfeenS of th« United States are hereby
v X infxrraed, that tiwnKinufailure-of WmdoW
i' c G.afs is now commenced at the Glass House in Boi
-9 'on?
(j Uis Beedjrfs to 'fay any thing of the exceUer.t
1 qu*rity of the Boston Glass, as iL is so well knot**.:
r ' throughout the United States t» be in every relpcvh
c j greatly superior to any ever imported from Enropc,
jj It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
[_ may b^ ; Qon.ftantly had fcy applying to Charles b'-.
t ( KuPf eh, at the Glass Houie.
0 Orders from the distant States to be aJdreffedt?
Mr. Sa'mui i. Gore, Cou.rt-lticet, Boston.
e Bifton, sept 3°, 1 797 O4 —2awiw
.. M'jfrs. yi&otby and A'lejon, Cbarltjian. ; JVl'effyi.
l{ 'Hodge AT-d Boylan, Halifax, N. C. Mtffri, If'i'.Uit
and o*Conner, Norfolk ; Mr. Ellis Price., Alexandria ;
?4c£rs.YnHdtvnd-Brc\?n,J>alijmttrci Mr. Hebkifn,
, _ .Yc it. - ">"u:k ; and ~i. 'JJ * J. HvJlLn W Gocdzr:- 'liart
r ford; blr. Seymour, Sayamch ; at : requeued to iff rt
. tbt £i:ve once a xyftX 6 u'fii. 'i!j. utcpunti to tcjci
-1 vcafded'tQ ibe Editor.