of tfjc VitUtttJ and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1635.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DRY GOODS.
/" Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. 56,
, S south Front-flxeet,
0 a s"\ Afternoon —Footman & Co. No. 6$
(_ South Front-ftrcet.
r Forenoon—John Connetty, Old City
tr ri ) Au&irtn, No. 73 fout'h Front-llreet,
~"" J ' ''J') Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
(_ 183 High-street.
nr j rj f Afternoon—Peter denfon. No. 74
) south Xhird . ftrcet .
C Furenooh—Edward Fox.
j jurjc ay | Afternoon—John Connelly.
- > Forenoon—William Shannon.
n 5 Afternoon—John Connelly,
Afternoon—Peter Benfon
SaturJao
, TO BE SOLD,
Qr Exchanged for Property in the Country,
That three story Brick House,
No. 157, Third ftrcct. Apply at the of
fice of this Oizctte. Nov. 29- \v&s.|w
A Compting House to let.
A Mod convenient Comptioj* House is now for
hire on Rofs's wharf, direclly over the arch,
for terms, apply to
Samuel Brechy jtin.
No. 89, fou'h f hird ilrcet,
Where may be had.
A few bales of Ravens Duck, and about ioo
pieces of ftoutCanvafs ; a small quantity of Mace,
and some high proof Brandy ; Sherry Wi»e,Cho
cola e in boxes, Window Glass ot' various sizes
a nd
IMPORTED
IN the fl)ip Aurora, from Hamburgh, and for
sole by the Snbfcriber.
Bed ticks, 8-4> 9-4. and 10-4.
A quantity of Tapes, No. 13 and 25.
jlnd ok Hand,
German black Ribbon, No. 3 and 4.
George Pennock.
novembpr 2T
Landing,
From on board the Ihip Edward, at Walnut-
ftrcct Wharf,
London particular Madeira Wine,
of a superior quality, For Sulc by thti fubfcribcr.
Robert Andrews.
novcmbei* j
Samuel & Miers Fisher,
ARE NOW 0 PE.4 ING,
At their Warehouse, No. i>, Dock Street, afrelh
aflbrofaent of W«olen and other goods, fui table to
the season, received by the late arrival; from Eng
land.
they have also for Salt,
Lisbon
r»pts,hhda. md quarter cases-
Port Wines, j Sf
Aflorted queen's ware int
lotKm»-»;d. dln-jtaw.iw.
Wanted, by a Gentleman in Virginia,
A discreet, icnfible Matron,
aged about 45 or 50 years, qualified to teach
young boys Writing, \rithrr.etic, History anil
Geography—Also, to aift i:i the capacity of House
Keeper. For forthir infcrrtiation ."rpiy to the
Printer. Nov. 28— djw
To Qentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter iji the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114, corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The filiation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. Oct. 1? —dtf
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpeft, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
flie has received during four years'reliden«e ia
Philadelphia; and allures her friends and the
ptiblic, so far from intending to dtcline her
school, (he has made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and masters excelling in their
refpecTh-eprofftTions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797- , simltf
The situation is perfeftly healthy > and made
more agreeable by an «xtenfiv« garden and lot
of prntind adjoining the house*
This Day Pnblifhed,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price 3-Bths of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents
Contained i* No. V and VI of
** The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
in which the charoe or s pecu latiqn against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Seciita*t of the Tar.AsußY, i« FULLY
REFUTED
vr kit ten Br atMSEir.
This publication presents a concifc flatement
of the bafc means pradlifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to afperfa the characters of thole
ysrfonswho arc confidnredas hostile to their disor
ganizing schemes. It also contains the CT
refpondence between Mr. Hamilton and MefTrs.
-Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on the fub
je<ft ef the documents ilorefaid, and a series of let
ters from J2me» Reynolds and his nife to Mr Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt,
•hat the connection between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring- eonfpiraay on the part
#f the Utter apd hi* associates to extort money.
jrt" a discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor of wholcfate purchasers, for
cash. Orders to be addrefled to Mr Yodn».
Avtrufl IS
Erfkin-e's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,,
\ By UOBERT CAMPBELL & C«.
j No 40 South Secoßd street,
' [Price 31 Cents]'
I A View of the Causes and Confequsti'
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May ij $
The American Ship
BOSTON PACKET,
Copperthwai't, Matter,
lying at Mifflin's Wharf,
near Vine-street—Has elegant aeo mmodations for
passengers—will fail, weathar permitting, on or
about thelitk iiitl. haying all Her cargo engaged
ready to go on hoard. For paffige only, app'y :o
December T
edwar d,
James Wickham, Majler,
to fail in a few days having two
j thirds of her cargo a ! rea«Jy engaged,and near
ly on board. For Freight or Paflage, apply to
the Matter on board, at Hnmilton's„wharf, or to
'John Donrialdfon,
No. 22, Wainut-ftrect.
novcmber 28
t or anifterdam,
j. The Ship
F A R M E R,
John M'Cgt.lom, Matter ;
JgSut. WILL fail in a few days, the
greater part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty tons of Coffee, or p'tf
fage, apply to the maftcr on at WaltiV'"
street wharf, or to
Doc. i.—eo6t
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who it Landing, out of the (aid Ship, from Bour-
Fentiniae,
Sauterne, > Wines in cases
Lunille, )
Prunes in boxes
nuvembrt- 24.
jawiw
The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
Captain Silas Swain.
A Large proporcion cf her
cargo being ready to go or
board, is expe&cd to fail on or about Sunday, th'
3d of December.
eotf
For Freight or Paflage, apply to the Captain on
board, at Walnut*ftrect Wharf, or to
PHILIP NICKLIN"& Co.
. noveniVr zi. §
THE SHI?
t^®' WILIAM PENN,
James Josiaft, Maftcr.
THE fttip is now taking on board her cargo, and
will fail in all next week. For freight or paflage
.apply to the captain, or to
hundred tons, to fail with iHconvcmck speed, a
part of hrr car<*o engaged—now lying at
Willing and Francis's wharf. For freight or j>af
frirc, i-.rply to the capnin,
JOHN SKYRIN,
Who wants to Charter.
A Vfes9EL of about three hundred tons.
rtov i 8.
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Ch is holm,
A new veflel, with excellent
accommo( l a tions for paffenger®—
Sails on the ioth of December. For Freight or
PalTage, apply to ROSS 15* SIMSON.
Who have to cHfpofe of t
A small invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and jl parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
nov ember 18. §
- The Brig MARY,
Pet en York, mailer,
6 ' Lying at Ruffel's wharf, near Pine
J llrect, is now rec.dy to take in a
1 Cargo, and will fail in t«n days.
For Freight, or Passage, apply to
GURNEY & SMITH.
November 16
Have just received, and have for Sale, at no. 9,
Walnut ilrect,
Liverpool and St. Übes SAL I
Do. best house CO \ LS
Queens' WARE in cases, aflorted
Bourdeaux ERANDY of an excellent quality
80. CLARJF.T in ca!cs, do.
THfY Vave also
,foJEMt For SALE or CHARTER,
TIIE IaIF
P E G G Y,
Bur'tften ZIS tons, in ejtcellent condition, and
may be font to sea with little expence or delay.
likewise,
WILLIAM,
Burthen aoi tons,
November 16.
The fall failing brig
Brothers,
rnni'fti*'Lyinjr at Curling's wharf,
m excellent single dcck'd veflel, burthen about
1600 barrels—not MclVe m.nths old, and in
compleat order. For terms apply to the maftey
cn board, or to
noy.
By John Fenno, N° 119 Cbcfnut Street
PHILADELPHIA
For Londonderry,
Smith & Ridgway,
No 4, North Water fttreet,or to
Isaac Harvey, "Jun.
No. 5, South Water ftrcct.
sfo t
tor Amsterdam,
deaux, aid For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
i* or Liverpool,
FOR LONDON,
jejfe ?3° Robert Wain.
For Londonderry,
THE BR.IGANTINE
5 UK K r,
Landtnltrgtr s ivharf.
For Hamburgh.
Rundle y Leech,
For Sale or Charter,
Joseph Anthony Sff Co.
TUESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 5, 1797.
THE SHIP
COM M ERC E,
Captain Richard Waistcoat,
From Liverpool is no-v discharging
at Morris'n wharf, ncir the Drawbridge, «■ .ue
o.A'ner- iS tenor's on ftriuht. wjii pleiifc: to
fend their permits. Said vgftl wifl
take in freight cn vary low terms for Esfton. Ap
ply to :he captain, or to
jfaac Harvey, jitn. ■
No. j, South Water Strati:.
A few tons of ft one, or sand iailafl: wan-l.—
Apply as above.
November 27
For Charter,
THE SHIP
Jtbri Bulk ley,
Sarnuel Volans, Majler.
i ; is built of live oat
—J. and cedar, of about 33:0
'barrels burthen, and rtadyto receive on board a
cargo.
JeJfi y Robert Wain
• OS. 31
For or Charter,
Jml good hope,
* carry about 1100 barrels, and
\> ready to take in a cargo. For terms
apply to
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have forfait-—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rum, Madeira, Liibon, and Tenerifle wine.
November 7. dtf.
Port and Alacleira Wine,
Now Landing,
By ifcip Edward, from Madeira, and Betley and
Pe ggy» f rosl Oporto, iu Pipes and Hoglheads,
For [alt ly
WHO ALSO OFFJRS FOR SAL*,
The. Ship
sp|j£, AMITY,
Four tlioufand barrels burthen,
"■ in excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo—about three years old.
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 barrel®, ready aJfo to receive a car
go—and a quantity of
V ' »>
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Just landed from the above vessels at South flrctt
wharf. eoim. Nov. f.
Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
At their Stores on Walnut ftrnet Wharf,
Havannah Sugars, white and brown
25 hhds. Jamaica do.
3000 pieces of broad Nankeens
Imperial Tea, in quarter* aftd eighths of ehi&e '
Quicksilver in tubs
Madeira Wine in pipe® and hojflieads
Teneriffe Wine in pipe?
Old icd Port Wine in hoglheadi
Sail Canvass, assorted, No. I to 8
8 cases of Manchester Goods, confiding of Dimities,
Vluflinets, Ginghams,Thickfctts, Corduroys, &c.
joo crates Queens' Ware, allotted
Nails, affortcd
Bla'k quart B' ttlis
Yellow Ocre in caiks
A quantity of writing Slate", slate Ink Stands, Sec.
100 quarter calks Gun Powder
7/iev bavt jfor SALE, or CHARTER,
TheJhip MOLLY, burthen 340 tons, a
good veff 1. ami completely,fitted.
The brig AMAZON, bnrthen 1300 bar
rels, may be ready for feain a few days.
The whole of the above vc'lels to be seen at
Walnut flreet Wharf. 5 ««f tc-
House and Lots, in Bofdentown.
TO BE SOLD, a handsome two flurr Houfc.
with the Lot on which it is erc&ed, fituared
about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
Village of Bordenown. The house is forty two
fecs front, and in neat order ihe lot contains
one acre, and is one hundred feet on the main
street, and extends with the fame breadth t«.ha«k
street. Also, a large Lot, containing nearly fcur
acres, fcparated lrom the former by back iirtdt.
One third only of the purcjufe money will be rc»
quired upon executing a deed, and for the re
mainder, foch credit wdl be given as the pftrch'ale
hr may chufe. This property will be fold free, e
all incumbrances, and an indisputable title giveftf
For farther particulars crquirc cither of Dr.
William Burn«s, rilidir.g in Bordcntown, near,
the premises, who will {hew the fame, or i.f
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, no. 144» Market-ikroct.
December z. jawtf
James £ff Richard Smith,
the liberty of informing their friends
L and the public, that they have removed their
11 ore to No. 54, South Front J? red, next d«or to Ed
ward Fox's Auction Room, where they haVe at
this time for fait, a large and general aifortmentoi
European & Eojl India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
William Penn, &c. Sic
OfL 47
Samuel flealants & Sons,
No. 74, South Sccond-Jlrcel,
HAVJ-". received a lupplT of Sratbnnble GOODS,
which they: are now epennitf for sale, on
reafonabie terms. o<st 37 —4w
ROSS & SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coffas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Eengal SUGAR, in tags and boxes
Jamaica, }
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal j
300 calks RICE, ;nd
A parcel of fliip building RED CEDaR.
Odt. 27. f
Landing this d;iy,
From on board th« fchi;oner Two Friends, Dan-
lei Crawley, Matter,
83 lihds. and ( j alTla i C a RUM,
12 pipes ) J 1
George Latimer & Son.
uovember 9. §
diw
§iot
Pragers Iff Co.
PETER BLIGHT.
LIKSWISK,
FOX SALS BY
Saliibury Estate.
THE Subferifeer, propjfioirto hi # bufi
ness. <■• tiers ih»s 'or s»le, on moderate
terms* Oa tt arc one Btaft and ihrcc Air Furnaces,
a complete Boveing Machine, and a very £<">od grift
MilJj.wiih {wo pair ol lb»nes ; alio a good Forgr, a'l •
in per !'*,& repair,-as ote ajlthe Water Work $ courtfft
ed with.thcfc vanou» branches. The Air Furnace?
were lately built tor the pqrpofe of rafting Cannon
f<*r this are nbum' two tne«4«Md acics
of I,and. one halt' of which isuudei wood, tne other'
very line arable La id, producing the belt Hay and
Paflure. The Can •»» totciy manufactured th'rc,
tujly proves the excellency of the metal, which is
any in tins cournry, and probably, equal
to any in the world ; for not ouc of iixiy-nine
lately m:ide, although fomrftf the 34 were bored
inro 32 pounders, have failed on proving. The fru
ation !s vefy eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufailure, and a place or arms lying in the (late
of Conne&icu?. and only 30 miles from ftveral land
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can rciult from a plenty of water
from a large natural pr.r.d, very near the Fu'na«e',
and which may be converted into a variety of other
toleful nurpofes '1 he purchaser can be accommodat
ed wiih all the Itocic and utenfilt, and have poflcfliqn
on or betore the fii tl of June nfcxt, ani preparation
may be made in them an time for going iuo Blad im
mediately thereaUer, tor every part will be delivered
i« good order, with some coal, Ore, Sec. &c. For
term:, apply to Mr. JVeph Anthony, in Pniladel
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Representatives
in Congress lor this State ; M?» Divid Watrrman, on
thepremifes, or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILsON
De-. i
Engliih Grammar,
The second edition, with improvements,
ADAPTED to the different claffcs of learners;
with an appendix, containing rules and ob*
lervatiaEsfor afti fling the more advanced tlusicuts
CO write with perspicuity and accuracy,
By LINDLEY MURRAY.
• 4 This is a publication of much merit, and fully
answers the profeflions in the Title. The appen
dix contains some of the heft rules for writing e
legantly, and with propriety, that we recollect to
have fcen."
Monthly Re-view) July 1796
" This Grammar is, on many accounts entitled
to commendatory netice, its materials have been
carefully and judiciously fele&ed ; its arjangement
is <Ji(lin& and well adapted to the purpose of in
ftrudion and its exprellioa is simple, perspicuous
and accurate, icci"
See the character at large in the Analytical
Review, July 1796.
English Exercises,
Adapted to the Grammar lately publilhed by
Lindley Murray, confiding of exemplification of
the parts of speech, inftancesof salsa orthography,
violations of the rules of fyncax, defers in punc
tuation, and violations of the rules refpe&ing
perspicuity and accuracy, designed for the benefit
of private learners, as well as for the ufc of schools.
" W« have been much pleased with the pcrufal
of these Exercises. They occupy with distinguish
ed excellence a mod important place in the fcicncc
of the Englilh language; and as such, we can
warmly recommend them to the Teachers of
Schools, as well *s to all those who are defirout of
attaining correSnefs and precision in their native
tongue."
Monthly Review, Jnly 1797*
The above Books areiorfale at Joseph & James
Crvksuanks book ftor«, No. 87, Market ftrect.
3 taw aw.
December I
N u
T HE partnerihip between John Ipstone and
James Bacon, under the firm oflnftoneand
Bacon, is this day dissolved by mutual consent.
All persons who ftr.nd indebted to la i firm are
requeued to make immediate payment of their
rtfpedive accounts, to John Skyrin, on Landen
bur;jcr's wharf, who is duly authorised to receive
tha fame ; and all persons havinj any demands a
gainst the said firm, are desired to bring i n their
accounts immediately to him far fettlcment.
November 20.
B E E F.
Prime Beef, fit fur India voyages, for file bjr
WILLIAM SIJEAFI', •
No. 16-!, High-flreet.
Also, about fiftctn hundredweight of Bees-
Wax. <ltf Nov- %u 1797
Library Company of Philadelphia.
THE Meni'oers of tlic Library Company of
Philadelphia are harcby informed, I hat tin; Libra
ry will be open on Monday next, the 4111 of De
cesni'cr, ior the rvcep'ion and delivery of books.
1 hole who regle-S to return the books, which
had '.nenuisf. out previous to the fir.l of Septem
l)Lr laiil, in the course of the ensuing week, will
be fined as thcrul.s direct.
The Loganian Library
Will also be opened at the fame 'ime, for the like
purposes.
N. B. A few copies of th« catalogues of the
bocks belonging to these institutions may b£ had
Z. POULSON, jun. Librarian.
Library, november ?o.
i he City Dancing Atiembly,
Will commence at O'Eller's Hotil, ou
Thurfchy December ?;h.
Tlmmas M. Willing
J'imcs Gibfon
Henry Wikoff
Stephen Kingston
William Read
Uoberr E. Griffith,
Managers.
ncv. agth.
All Persons
Having any demands apa'nft the Eftete of the
late Captain George lrwin> are requeued to
bring in their accounts pioperly atteited, on or
before the firft day of January next enftiing
and those who are indebted to laid estate are so
limited to make immediate payment t-o
SaRAH liUVIN, Administratrix.
Nov. 19 1797'
NOW LANDING,
From pu board the ihip Farmer, lying at Harper's
Whart,
Claret in hhds.
Ditto in cases
Sauterne Wintf in do.
For Sale, apply to
John Wbitefide Iff Co.
No. 138, * arket-lfreet,
Also, on handy
BourcJeaux Brantiy in pipes
l ine old Antigua Rum
A few cases of Clartt, of a fup-riar quality.
r.ovembtr 25
D A N C I N* G.
Mk. B r rnk,
Ol* the Sew'fin %tt e
t-> the Ladt s and Ov.i Jen.-"
ft a f(»n—H ir, cn d c 11;
eleven cb two for young Ladies, by Mrs-
By kHt ; on !'0 fame days lir-tfie afternoon from
three till fix- {or young C.-'firmc-n ; anri ifi the
eyer.ings < f nuToftays "ami Tat'ur«.:.«ys, from flit
till nine for G.utTemen. rleafe to apply at the
at ?h: hours of tuition.
Mr. Bvrne'o firft Ba'l wijl been TueCjay, l-sth,
December, and continue once a fortnight thr»i'£'b*'
tn.r the season. December j -{-.ftiju
December I, 1797,
THE partner/hip between us, is this day Jii
folved by mutual content.
By JOHN MILLER,'jun. b" Co.
Guzzies F.nurfics
Blue Cloths Calicoes
PalaQipoors Romail Handkerchiefs
them are a great proportion of the
Pa:i?a.
December i. £
ja'A'tf
7 o be 8o!d t
A Bill on Richmond,
[Payable at fight. Inquire at thi6 office.
Dec. I. 2t
The Subscriber intends to make
application for the icnewa] of a Certificate of a Share
in the Bank of the United States, (landing in the name
of A. B. No. dated July 11, 1797, the fame
having been loit. JOHN GRAHAM.
Richmond, Dec. 1.
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and perches, with a neat two
(lory brick Houi'e and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. situate on the Irilh tradl lane, in the
towulhip of Moyamenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvements upon this place, for talle and
elegance, stand unrivalled.
December 1. dtf
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of the City, that fhc proposes having
Four CONCERTS and BALLS during the winter.
Six Dollars each Subscriber, for one Ticket of
admittance during the season.
No Subscribers Tickets transferrable.
Two Dollar, a {ingle Ticket.
The Coacert to begin at half past fix, and the
Band to attend for the Ball at eigh»—the expense
of which Mri. Ghattan engages to discharge,
The Concerts will begin as soon as the Band ar
rives from New York.
Subscriptions received, and Tic!t«s deliv
ered at No. lyi, Market ftrcet,
noverrJv, r 29
Chocolate and Mustard,
of a superior quality manufaihired,
Gi INGER and Pepper, ground ; fliclled or
r pearl Bailcy; Philadelphia P rtcr, lieer,
Ale ami Cyder ; Taunton ar.d Burton Ale j
Loudon Porter ; red. Port and Liftjon Wine,
l'uitable for exportation or home consumption.
The highest pi ice given for Mustard-Seed.
Also for /ale, A quantity of Bocking and
common Baizes, a variety of colors; a bale of
Fullians, Shawls, fcc, for faleby
John Injione,
James Bacon,
eo.ltf
Prime Rice in twhole and half tierces
Beutdcaux brandy
Teneri/Je Wine
Molaffci
Georgia ji"d Carolina Indigo
Ravens Duck and one hogjliead cf pant
brvjljci.
Yellow Fever and
THISDAYIS PlJ'Bl.l-.HEI), in one vol. odavo*
By Willi ah Young, BookfdJer,
No, 3 2, Second street, the corner of Che/nut ilreet,
(Price, in boards. 87 12 Cents J
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eftablifted in ths clcairnts
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M. D.
With an attempt to correfl some important er
rors of that work, and cases in illuttration, chief
ly fe!cfUd from the records of their practice, at
tile General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br William Tatbs & Chas. M\clkan.
To which isfubjsined, a Treatise on the a&ion
of Mercury lipoid living badie9, and its applica
tion for the cure OJ diftales of iniiireil debility
Andadifiertatinn on,the fourets of Epidejintand .
Peftiientialdifeafes; inwhichisattemptedtoprove
by a numerous iniiuiHon of fails, that they ne
ver aril'e from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain Hates, or certain vicilStudes of
the atmosphere, by Chaklss Macllan, of
Calcutta.
A Valuable Plantation,
OF upwards of One Hundred Acres of Land,
well watered, in a healthy situation, about
fcven miles fronj this City ; the buildings n»ay le
made to accommodate a large family, at a mode
rate expense, and pofiefiion b»id in a few wreck*.
Part ®f the purchafjb-raoney being paid, areafoi.r
able credit will be allowed for the remainder.
fFc lv:,:e XII
BUSH-HILL,
William Bates,
William Da,-ley
■ No. 8, Ch'lvu;
One hundred and eighty bales
BENGAL GOODS,
! .ich arc,
Mam 00 dies
/ mongft
Gurrahs
East.is
Gazz nahs
iS.imiM
I anda Cofla-js
To be fold,
MRS. G RATTAN,
JOHN HA WORTH,
No. 98, south Front-street.
m &th.t.'ij.
voi>. 27.
For Sale by the Subscribers,
N. & y. Frazer.
No. 95, Ssntb Front Street.
dim
l Vtf7\ 7
Diseases.
Paper,
A VIEW
Nov. 21.
To be Sold,
Enquire of tho I'r inter
l.ovru-.'. r -
! »-a-s
i::.t liiM'or-ni iii«i j vt
'R-'.pcr, K:
€iw
Pestilential
Jl2t
mwfsfPOST-OFFICE, I
Philadelphia, 4th Dec. T797. t
Letters for the IVttifh Packet L.avterct» i
Capt. Taylor, for Falmouth, will be receiv- |
ed at this office until Tuesday the-sth intt. j
at 12 o'clock noon. f _
-N.4i. The inland postage to New-York j F
hr.ift he paid. j
in the brig Eliza, j
Cip:. Wast\v., from Bnurdcaux ; t
Ila -cf in > '«£» of a very superior qttality, j
V* hiss Siytcrnc Wi'»c in Caf.s, r •
Oi vc Oil in baSkcts of 11 ho'tlei. etch, | ll
\V litre and coloured SCid Gloves, ° !
,!o. do. Silk <!o. ol
A i'cv pijScs ol Bourdeaux Brandy, t(
l\ r Sait by
JAMES I ATHVTS-R, jnr.j f
71.S01wVWh1rv.r1. y
Whi> has also for Sale, *j
A 'ifw qr. Calks Old Sherry Wine. tl
Dee. <lj ' v h
Six Cents Reward. tl
RANA.\VAY, thioraj'rnirg, Deceiiibir .i.frnm (_
t;e.Subftriber, an indented boy, mmrH Wil-
J.IAM Astcs. about 5 f*st f 6 or 7 inch < h ?h—
---f.itr cpciiuiiVum, heaifjr '. rows f ; -?£kv thick, ftoiit
twit. Had on when e wrnt away, a bine coa-*, 11
biack vft, hlile tra*vfer«. Thi; i< to ewtion the n
] ifSUc out. to cr-Hithi'r-.i on ray account. a I will j,
not pnv any debts of bi * contrae\ing at ter th ft dav.
Any pecipu t>arboursflit him, or employing him,
flu?. \n vrof; cited \St\ii' utbcfr rijjnur of c!>e hw ; 17
all naffer* of vc'fol* arc csmro ed not *o tkt Kim r;
away at thtif peril; anv pcrfon spprehercdin* hin
and lodging hurl in jn! fi> th;.t !ii» Miafter nviy get y
hivn again, frail I'&civit the above reward and no
charges paid ly c
John Harper, .
No, 67, Arch Street, *
Dec. 4. -V- ®
To be fold at the Merchant's Cos- c
see-House, J
On wedftefday the 15th of December at 7 o'
clock in the evening, one pertain bond.or 1
alligation noted Jti'y 16,
L've of Alexandria for biifiielt- Jofiah WatP'H \
an 1 Jhrbwel Love for £6llO Virginia currency, l
parable on the 3 1 ft of Oflober lafl pall,tit Stock- T
le ■ Dntielfoii or his assign Bond the j
fa d HonellYin atTigned to J-.m?s Oram, under
witfe po ver'of altoi tliis file vviii be made.
Fjr further psrtici'.ars app!) to the fubfcr.berj. '
FOOTftIAN and Co. Au |
Nor. 28. ' trjtlid- <
so he Sold at Public Vendue, |
(If not otforc difjxjftd of at private sale) j
O'N Mondaythe nift day of January next, it fix
o'clock in the: evening, ?ctbe Mercbanij 1 Cos*
«ce Houfc. in Philadelphia, lAvenn-Six T*toufand i
Sevei Huid'td ;pd Eighty actes of LAND, in the ;
S.atr of Ncw-Yotk, between ihc noilbrrn bounds
of Pernfvlvania and the Su'quc'Mnna, now, or late
in the t;iwn(hios nf llamdwi and VA'arrcn, and coun- '
tT of Montgomery. 0"C lour'h of the purckafe
mon-y to he p»id at tt.e liaie of sale ; for tbcrefidue |
credit of one, arnd three mon'.hs, will be given,
on irth-rit 2nd good feturity.
1) r 4. 1
To he Sold at Public Vendue, ;
(If not before, dlfpofed of at private sale)
ON Monday the !ir,t doy of January next.iit fix
o'clock m the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
House in Po ladelphiai Forty Kine Hun
dred and Tluriy-Ni'tc sens of LAND in Green
countv, Commi.nwealth t,( PtmtfylvanU.'Mi jhs ,V%.
te,s oi Ftfti »nrl Wtie.-.luif! Creek, ar-t t' l.Mi - Hun.
These bilds ate fertile, well apouad in
coal; thev eic i'l'.t t:r. yet ';v for per
paien ed - in'v in 1787. . xcept 3.700. which iere oa-
Mined the greveft ol them' w.-rf far
veyed in (l3j.
Vhit tr« the Ohm wd Mono; mot.a,
veryfcpnveiiiftit to ».-atri t2rr:a^- — 19 0 :leii; vtn
th»'towri (K'M < Hingtoa. and frntn 14.W t6 tr->m the
Tillag'j oIG-c-e. fourth and Whe'e! Ore fo-.Kth
of the p-irchaie money ii to oe pai'l at the tiine o.
file • tar the mfidtie a credit of one, (wo, a.id ihe?
-jov'k" will be I'ivcn, on iotircli and go-d fecutity.
Dec... _ __ J-
The City Dancing Afiembly,
Is üßav«idal»iy pcftponed till the 14th infl.
I Dec. 2. 1
~ L 0 S 7,
YESTERD AY in Market, Ch: tnu*, Souih Second,
Third, or Dock fltcet, a fmali Oval Red M .-
roeeo Pocket Book, confiinina a Oar.k Notet of Five
Doil»r« each, and one»f Tin Dollars. 'Also, a pa
ntr the contents of which are not recoUeaed. Who
ever willdeliver it, with its courciUs to Mr. James ;
z O'EHtrs, at his Hotel, shall iccfwa Five Dollars Re-
W"d.
Dec. 2.
N OTICE,
A I.L perfrins concerted are hereby notified,
j\ that ty f-Wcriher intends to apply for a re
nev.al of the undermentioned loft certificates of
Stock in the Bank of the United States—He for
warded them under cover of a letter a.ldrefTeJ to
John Ati(ley.of London, by the fh.p Bacchus, capt.
George, which left this port in June lift for Lon
don But that (hip having been capturtd on her
padage and I'ert to France, the above letter and in
clofures have failed in their deftinatiou.
Three eertiScates, viz.
N'o3. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for
four fharea,"dated January ill, 1797, and
Jffued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Hiehcrofs, Great britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
PhilaJdpU", novenlt.-r 8. law6w
~ ' To le Sold,
The time of a Negro Boy,
About fifteen years of age, has {even years yet
to fetve.; he i< an excellent house ttrvant, ailiT3
andll ral'iiy. F.nijuire of the Printer.
z.
" LAW BOOKS^
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
iju & ,P, RICE, Boekfellers,
No x 6, South Second, and No. so, Market tlreet,
V a"AVE juft,received by the 1 lie arriva s Irom
XI London and Duhlili, theii fpritg importa
tion, conliftingof a vhricty of the latest and most
aporovedl aw Books, whk.h, added to t'nofe alrea
dy'on hand, fPi'nrtthe. ntoftexreb.Cve coUectionev
er offered for fVein this epuntry. They thei efore
leave to nofice, that from tjis r.attre of their
eormeetic nsin Dullliu, they arc enabled to fell IriCb
editions (as they have hitherto iWf) at tli - very
lVv.'efl pricw 'The following arc among the latest
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in < hnncery. i t.,.5.
Pto-ite's Cases at Nift Ppa? i Ref ortt
in the time of l er l U.-.rd* .eke ; b'joyer> Proclers
pMiSice in the Courts ; Bartch's
Trentife on a Suit ill Equity ; Tidd's Practice of
the Court of King's Bcnsh in Perfoual Adlions, i
rts co. nplete , Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Ules ; modern Reports, It vois. London edi
-11 li. and P.Rice ctpefl Ji receive .by tie frO ar
rival from Mevr-Voilt the fib voji ctmipletc of
liur.iford and EaA'l Seoovis, the ad pan of Gil
bert's I.av/ of Evidence by Luit, ami a number of
new puMkatiffw.
tnne 26.
t ],3
j %'i)C otlsotte» p
j PIIIIA DELP HI A, th i
I TtJESPAY FVENI-'G, •■F.CrMBER -. he
> L - —! hin
1 For the Gazette of the United States. • tn
' cat
;To Mejfrs. Frp. KF. Al/ ef'P.M v., printers of , th;
the Daily Advtrtifer in Ckarltjfon. c(li
' I have seen, gentlemen, in th" public
! prints of this city a piece finned " A S.ificr- l ar
I ing Merchant," and talten from your par.ei* ne ,
of Nov. 6th. I know nothing about the
olijeft of this, pulilicfltion ; l>nt its obvious co
tendency being to induce a belief in the.po
pie of this country, that the captures of
their property by the French, proceed not ; n
from the injustice of that nation, but from m;
the negligence of our own go.vernmefit, I l e t
have thought it proper to udtl.-t.fs a few re- ra j
- marks to you on the fubjeft j and I reqticft j'
the favour ,of you to republish them in your V e
I Gazette. ' «<
This writer Rates that the English part re
, of the fea-letter,given to our vessels pursuant (",<
■ to the 25th and 27th articles of our com
: mercial tj-eaty with France, is not a jnfl
' translation of the French part; and this is on
the negligence on the part of ®ur govern- w j
ment, which he supposes may have given ; n
II rife to the depredations of the French. efi
1 But it is to be remembered that the jp C
( French part is also inserted in the sea-letter, iti 1
0 which ismade cutin four languages, French, tii
Spaniili, English and Dutch. This French j n
part is precisely c»uforinable to the model th
annext to the treaty ; and as that is the te
part particularly addrelTed to the French
- crnifers and ships of war, whose command- e x
ers are not luppofed to underltand Englifli, 0 j
surely the variations in the other part ean- of
„ not be material as it refpefts France. F
n To put this matter in a clearer light, I aj
n woold a/k whether a fca-letttr, in which the in
'• French part (hould agree with the fcJrm an- (J,
ne<t to the treaty, ajd tb- Englifli, Span- la
_ r ifh and Dutch parts, or either of them be gl
1 wholly omitted, could be objc&ed to hy y,
s . France ? certainly not; tor the treaty (im
ply requires that there should be a sea-letter
conformable to the model annext, without
declaring that it shall be iij. this or that lan
guage. But surely il the English part might
be altogether omitted without invalidating ei
f. the sea-letter, it cannot be affe&ed by any si
d irregularity in that part, while the others o
J 6 are in due form. c
,* This idea is further confirmed by obferv- d
1. ing, that the treaty, though executed in h
fe French and English, is expressly declared to f(
je have, been " originally composed and con- a
'' eluded in French." Hence when any dif- t!
pute arises about its confirmation, the French h
is always recurred to, and the meaning of p
' the terms is fixt according to their scale in fc
■ x that language and not in English. t
ee The main objeft of the treaty, moreover, a
in this part Qf it, is to provide a mode of I
, proof by which, ta use its own words, it f
may appear " that the vcdel belongs real- 1
in ly and truly, to the ef one of the }
e > contr&fliug parties." In order to accom- ]
| 4 ] pi ifh tl»i« mhjed, the, article flipulates, " that 1
in cafe either cf the parties should be en
a, gaged in war, the vefi'cls belonging to the I
m fubjedfs or people of the other ally, fliall be j
, n furniilied wiih sea-letters or paflports, which 2
of shall express the name, the property, and the i
"i lurthe.-i of the vefiel, as well as the name and t
lv ' rtfidence of th* matter." And this pafTport 1
- it adds, (hall be made out according to the :
form annext. Here it is obvious that the ,i
use of the patTport is to ascertain the prop- i
erty, and that the material parts of it are the <
name, property and burthen of the Jhip, and the i
\d, name andrefidcmc of the matter. Not a word 1
l is said about a lift of the crew, or a role
?i _ (Evquipage, which was in no degree neceflary
ao- to this obje£t ; and the annext form was re
ncs i ferred to not as a precedent, which mud be
ic " | cxadtly copied, but as a model, a diredtion
to point out the manner in which this pass
- port should be drawn up.
This was evidently the light in which
e< *> Mr. Jefferfon viewed the matter ; for in the
"j originul eopy, annext to the treaty, there
or are several alterations in his own hand-writ
to ing made by him while Secretary of State,
ipt. in order to accommodste the model to the
on- fty] e Q f ol]r govetnment.
,lfr Now it will be found, by referring to the
Englith part of the patTport as slated by
your correspondent, that, although nat an
for exa£t copy of the French part, it neverthe
tnd less contains all the above mentioned mate
ot- rial points, the name, property and burthen of
the veffcl, ar.d the name and residence of the
S. matter. Consequently it complies fubftan
v tially with the treaty* to the benefit of
_ which, even (landing alone, without the
French part, it would be fufficient to enti
tle our vetTels.
T ct The part omitted relates to the lift of the
s crew, and fecurityto observe the marine or
v dinances, without which formalities no
French vet Tel, according to the laws of
France, could obtain a clearance in the ports
of that country. These cireumtlances,
therefore, were naturally mentioned in the
, ee . French part of the sea-letter, because with
rom' out them the sole obje£t of the paper, viz.
>rta- the proof of the vet Tel being French proper
110ft ty, could !iOt be accomplitlied, nor any patf
iri:a' port given. But it would have been idle to
'fore in^'CTt 'hem into our part of the fe?.-letter ;
| lc i r because our laws required no such iarmali-
IriCi ties. In order to obtain a clearance or
vrl 7 patTport among 11s, no lift of the crew, nor
»telfc 2n y ftcurity to observe the marine laws,
• were neceflary ; and theiefore it would have
V.r's been fool: ill to talk of them iri tU< sea-letter.
;Icrs In (hort the tea-letters and pafTports of
:e-n's each natiun date the circumftaoces refpedt
:c of ively necessary, by its laws, for proving the
rulfe p ro P- rt y vetTels ; but through great cnu
edi. tion, and the mote completely to avo.d dis
putes, our sea-letters conta'n both forms,
J ar - our own and the French : if the firft be de
c,.?' ficienr, surely it may be supplied by the fe
.J.'„r cond. »
As to the role d'equi''age, which your
f correspondent tpeaks o.', I would obterve,
that no such thing is required, or even men- sot <
tioned, by the treaty. The form of the this
sea-letter Hates that the captain " (hull enter ( lives
in The proper officei," a lift of, his crew ; but Mop
this entry is to be made in the office where infu
he obtains his pnffport, and notcarried with den'
hirrv to sea ; and if this regulation referred! fed
to our vt-dcls, which evidently is not the whe
cafe, still the passport itfelf would be proof din j
that all the V'quifite formalities had been Atr
complied with before it was granted. vide
The marine ordnance, of France, particu- the
larly those of 1704 and 1744, require that adn:
neutral vefTels in time of war shall be furnilh- peo
ed with a lift of the crew and pafiengers, tho
containing their names, place ofrefider.ee. con
Sea. This lift they call a rolf d'equipage, fori
But their commercial treaty with us, made the
in Febeuarv 1778, dispenses with this for- ed 1
nudity by.cxprefsly declaring that the sea- trai
letter and paiTport lha'l be fufiicient, and o- diai
to make any mention of the role fha
d'equipage. In July 1778, the French go- the
vernment pnblifhed a regulation refpefting poi
" neutral vefTels in time of war and this wh
regulation repeats and/.nforccs the provi- pat
lions made by former ordinances concerning .
the role d'equipage. yoi
But this regulation, which was the a£l of ha]
one party alone, coul 1 not alter the treaty, be
witout the consent of the other: nor was it wil
intended by the French to produce any such coi
cfFe£l ; for it is expressly confined, in its o- to
1 peration, to "neutral vefTels navigating in, wil
j time of war." The United States, at that vig
i time, were not neutral : they Were engaged an!
in the war, on the fide of France ; and I
therefore this regulation could not have eon- thi
templated them. Tl
This fubjeel, of the role d'equipage, is afli
extremely well explained in a decision of one fat
of the French admiralty courts on the cafe wil
of the brig John,' which was captured by a IN
French privateer for want of a role d'equip- Bu
age. This ground of capture was declared of
infnffii;te,!!t, and the brig wasacquittrd. The To
decifidn m,»y be found at length in the Phi- th<
ladflplii i daily advertiser ef Nov. 17th, ®r bri
abo'ut that time, to which I refer such of wi
your readers as have not fefen it. He
CAROLINIENSIS. vi<
From tie Columbian Centinil. Tl
Ms. RUSSELL,
The spirit of jacobinism is secret, influ
ential, and penetrating. Dark and uncon
fined in its operations it tends to a complete
overthrow of every moral and political prin- E:
ciple.—lt gathers new strength from every
defeat, and like the hydra of old adds one
head more to the number it originally pos
sessed. It changes repeatedly its manners ab
and means, but the objefts arc universally lie
the fame—death and ambition. Its effefts tri
have almost exceeded belief. The wisest fu
politicians of Europe and America have been wi
baffled in their calculations. It was thought uc
lo be a meteor which would frighten only for
a moment, and then dwindle into thin air. D
.But it has converted Europe into one vast n e
scene of blood. Under the fscred namr» of T
liberty and the rights of man it has either
humbled or fubjugatcd Holland, Auftna, he
Italy and Sfain. England has felt its tr
dreadful eS'efts, and even the crescent of 'h:
Turkey bows as it approaches. Without a di
shadow of pretence or declaration of princi- w
: pies, it has overturned conflitutions, whofc ta
1 antiquity and excellency entitled them to re* m
fpeft, it has violated all obligation, destroy- f
I ed the social feelings and the numerous re- E
t lations which fubfilt between man and man, (J,
: and threatens to convert the whole world /)
: /into a scene of bloodshed, wickedncfs and w
- unirerfal disorganization. Where these tl
e dreadful scenes nil ft end is beyond the re- C(
; searches of (hort figbted reason. We had a
1 lately cause to hope that the war was ad- c
-1 vancing to a condufion. The negociatious J (
f at Liflc and Udina, though covered with f
- mystery and secrecy, it was thought would tl
e have a favourable termination. But in 0
n France things fuffercda total revcrfion.While
- peace and order were the unanimous wi(he3 a
of the French People ; while Pujloret was tl
h pleading the cause of insulted America, and /
e Boiffy d'Anglos amusing himfelf with ideal c
e hopes, three of the Dire&ory with the true n
:- spirit of 'Jacobinism, proscribed two of their tl
own body, sixty of the councils of Five 1
e Hundred and of Elders, and thus has fled e
all hopes of present tranquility. c
e The views of Jacobinism have been direst- n
y ed towards this country ever finc« the close 2
n of the late war. Under a policy peculiar to c
its charadler, it has affumcd various appear
:- ances. Sometimes engaging, subtle and nn- ] ;
jf afliiming, it wiflied to charm us into a fatal q
ie security, that we might become an easy prey f
1- to its infernal intentions. At other times j
sf threatening, bold and decisive, it wished to b
ie frighten us in'o a man compliance with it 3 e
i- views. But the guardian angel of freedom
has hitherto protected us from danger. Men *
ie and measures have been weighed in the ba- c
r- lance, and have not been found wanting.— r
10 WASHINGTON, HAMILTON, A- f
of DAMS and PICKERING, have guided r
ts our councils, have ftctnmed the the torrent t
s, of fadlion, aadglorioufly diredled us through 1
he the whirlwind of war. (
h- The late revolution in France mull have <
z. a decided efftil on American measures. Our i
;r- envoys will either be received and matters j
If, arpicably adjusted, or they will be treated i
to with contempt, and wa# betthc iiltemative. {
r; If (he so rmcr flioiild happen, we then will ;
li- carry on our own matters in peace and fecu- 1
or rity, free from the detentions ar.d adjudica- '
or tions of the Britli 1 ), and the unjuftifiabk j
IS, vexatidns of the French eorfairs. If the 1
ve : latter be the laG re Tort, Americans arc vea
,*r. dy for the cor.test.
of j Though in the beginning we had wiflied 1
fl- j to live secluded from the bullies of the world
he and had hoped to view the distant troubles
;ii- I of Europe, like the traveller, who from
if- , some uniiiaken piomontory surveys the fury
as, 1 and efiefts of a sea storm, yet if we are
Je- ■ dragged into the contest, we will never be
fe- | wanting to ourselves and our country. A
] mtricatis know what are the rights of free
»ur ■ rnt-r. k and thofevrights they will maintain
ve, ti:::rapuir-.dcr die in maintaining. They do')
m>t wifli the fcenii of Francs renewed in m
tli is country. TU;y will never hold their w<
lives as gifts from any nat'on, especially from ca
b'opd-thirfty Frenchmen ; from men who so
insulted aud spit upon our venerable Profi
cient ; who infringed or.r neutrality and rai
sed an alarming rebellion in our country, C
who have nt'vef ceased persecuting, degi'a- w
ding and reviling the American name, and ar
American meafivres ; told lis we were a di- ns
vided nation, and threatened to appeal from cc
the adminillration tel the people, as if the lo
adminiflration was not thefree choice of the ec
people. Yes, Americana) Frenchmen are ™
those who now capture and condemn Vour
commerce and fellow citizens without the
formalities of trial ; who tlonbtlefs are at £
the bottom of Blount's confpirucy, inllru£t
ed the Spaniards to withhold the po!ls con
trary to the Treaty ; tampered with the In
dians on the frontiers, and advised them to D ;
sharpen their tomahawks and make ready
their arrows for war, who have poured u- j
pon you the viletl torrents of. ahufe, and g
whose crimes, villainies and perfidies are un- g
paralleled in the hillory of nations. S
Such, citizens, are the men with whom v j
you have to deal. Oft your condudi, your t(
happiness or misery depend. If you viifhto
be ftp'ckzn with poverty and overwhelmed t,"
with taxation, then like the Hollanders, be
cow rdly, fertile and mean. If you with t |
to secure tranquility to your country, or die a!
with glorious expeditions, then be sober, \ V
vigilant and independent, like the inhabit- g
ants of Switzerland. I trust you are men.
I hope you will prove yourselves wor- u
thy the cause in which you are engaged.— ]y
Then your altars will not be violated, the C(
allies and mouldering bones of your fore- :']
fathers will not be thrown into the air, nor
will the grey hairs of your beloved WASH- 0
INGTON, wave on a pike to the wind, p
But, calm and colledled, the descendants a
of the heroes of Bunlers-Hill, Trenton, and u
York-town, will move to the field, and like
the old Sword of WASHINGTON, 0
brightened in the blood nf your enemies, h
will gleam in the air, and like the plume of p
Henry the fourth, guide you to glory and g
vidlory. CLARENDON. ji
— d
The following publications which appeared t
in the Aurora of January 10, I 794, bear
a remarkable resemblance to some which t
have appeared in 1797. t
ExtraS of a letter from Nantz, dated Ofloler j
16tkf 1 794, to captain Molinary, Philadtl- t
pbia. c
I cannot fend you any news more agree
able or more glorieus, than that the repub
lic is saved notwithftar.ding the infamous t
treasons that daily come to light. Cuftine >
fuffered last month and many generals, who 1
' were of his plot, have Ihared his fate, but i
uo matter, all is well, ca ira. 1
England has loft ten thonfand men before t
Dunkirk, and Spain hasloft ber threecamps <
near Perpignan. We are in Catalonia. ]
[" The king of Savoy has loft alibis dominions, <
except Piedmont, where he is so closely 1
> hemmed in, that he cannot escape ; his I
• treasure, cannon provisions and ammunition
E 'have all fallen into our hands. Lyons is re- 1
1 duced to allies: ten thousand emigrants 1
- were there put to the fwnrd afterhaving fuf
<•' tained a siege of two month's. AH that re
» mains to be fubdued«is the devoted town of
- Toulon, which has been betrayed to the
- English and which we are now closely be
> sieging with an arrjiv of 72 thousand men.
1 As for the lawless banditti of this country
1 who were so infignificant when you left this
e they are become an objedl of serious con
- cern. In June l'aft two hundred thousand
d of them attacked us at all the points in the
- city, but were repulsed with couGderable
s lofa : they have fiace repafled the Loire,
n For these two months 180 thousand men of
d the republican troops have been in pursuit
n of these insurgents.
■ e Not a day pafies but they attack them,
■ s and it is probable that hefore the end of
lS this month they will be utterly destroyed.
d All the navy and all the merchantmen are
*1 called into aftual fcrvice. Preparations are
e making for a descent on England, and it is
ir thought that the troops here confiding of
'e 180 thousand mra, are intended for that
d expedition. Naples and the Duke of Tuf
cany ha«ejnft declared waragainft us. No
t- matter ;'we are driving all before us. The
Ie Auftrians, Piuflians, Heflians aud Dutch
o can holdout no longer,
r- A frefh levy cf 450 thousand men has
1- lately been completed, all well armed and e
al quipped ; a part of them are already on the
'y frontiers, and the reft are form to follow
ss Another levy is now raifingof the like niim
to ber, 40 thousand cavalry are already enroll
t3 ed and on their march for the frontiers,
in The firftlevy was composed of men of e
-n very rank without cliftindtion from the age
a- of 18 to 25, and the other levy which is al
most completed is to be composed of men
from the age of 25 to 45. Every young
rd man and widower without children is oblig
nt ed to march. All utensils as iron and all
jh bells are carried to the national founderies.
Our calendar is reformed. Men of improv
ve «d uuderftadings have introduced more order
ur into it and made it more worthy of a free
.'rs people. We have expelled from it all the
cd faints, all the monuments of ignorance and
'e. fanaticifm which have done so much mifchief
ill and which arc the causes of our present fnf*
"J- ferings. liiftead of-thofe vile miscreants
:a- who owe their cannonization to their 'lug
>le gifh l'fe and their imbecility we have fuWU
he tuted the names of tliofe heroes who have
ra- done honour to human nature in ancient
times, and who are now our models. The
ed month;, # ars of 3:5 day/, the weeks of
r'd 10 and at the end of each weekauay is con
ies fecrated to renofe" and to the celebration of
nn the epocha of our immortal revolution. Four
ry hundred merchants and stockjobbers have
>re been executed at MSrfJiles. Thi3 exam
be ply has made that town and v ßourdeaux re
ft- turn to the principles of our revolution,
fe- Commercial aristocracy attempted to fuc
iin ceed the aristocracy of the nobles and the
do pj'e.lhcod, but this, the interior depart
mentis did not, relifl:. Wc fin 11 be free r:rd
we (hall leave to posterity eithira dieadful
catastrophe to bewail, or grand examples
for their imitation,
" Eighty more deputies to the National
Convention have been lately arrested, of
which numbe are Faure and Badleul! They
are accused of wilhing the restoration of mo
narchy in the person of Louis XVII. Those
concerned in the diiWbances of Lyons,Tov
lon and Vendee Are immediately to be tri
ed."
»m rwiimr ■m m -| iiimihiiimi ■ mi
C 0 N G R ~E~ $ S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES..
MONDAY DECEMBER 4.
Mr. Josb p hH e I ster, from Pennfylva
pia (in the place of Mr. Ege) appeared and
| took his oath and feat.
Mr. Gregg, from Pennfylvani'a, Mr.
Skinner, from Maffiichufetts, Messrs. Bur
gess and Eryan, from North-Carolina, Mr.
Sampler, from South-Carolina, and Mr. Da
vis, from Kentucky, made their appcaranee
to-day.
Mr. Coit, from the committee of Elec
tions, reported on the memorial of Robert
Rutherford, complaining of the undue elec
tion of General Morgan, that they had ex
amined the proofs adduced, and that they
were wholly inefficient to support the alle
gations contained in his memorial.
Mr. Coit moved that the house concur
with the report ; but upon the wishes of
MeiTrs. J. Parker and T. Claiborne, it was
committed to a committee of the whole for
j Thursday.
j Mr. Liviscston, from the committee
of Commerce and Manufactures, made re
ports on the petitions of John C. Normand
and Henry Sherriot, who prnyed for the re
mission of duties on wine destroyed by fire.
The report Hated that there was no doubt
of the fact being as set forth ; but that the
house had frf late years rejefted all such ap
plications,not only as inequitable, but on the
ground'of its beingimpoffibleto guard againfl
imposition, and therefore referring t/> former
deeifions, determine the prayer of the pe
titioner could not be granted.
Mr. L. also made a report on the peti
tion of Frederick Cyru3, praying to have
the management of a mining scheme, ftatinjr
that, as the committee knew of' no such
plan, and the house had no power to make
the appointment, the prayer of the petition
could not be granted.
The house concurred in these reports.
Mr. Dwight Foster presented the pe
tition of Thomat Carpenter, dating that he
was editor of the American Senator, pub
lilhed during the last session of Congress end
ing in March last ; that at the commeitce
raent of that session he presented a memorial
to the house, praying its support of his
work ; that the house had declined sup
porting it as a body, but jeceiving individu
al aflarances of support frorrt many of the
members, he had been induced to engage in
the work ; but tTie event had proved unfa
vourable to him ; he hoped now, therefore,
that he (hould be recompenced by the house
engaging to take three copies for each mem
ber of the work he proposed to publish this
session (provided he met with the support
he prayed f >r) which, computing the session
at eighteen weeks, he supposed would not
amount to more than 2 2jo dollars.
Mt. D. F.Mier'moved that this petftion
be referred to a ieleft committee. Mr.
i Coit objefted to a reference. The house,
he faidj had so often determined to have
1 nothing to do with the publication of the
: debates, that he thought it time to have
: done with the ftibjeft. He hoped, there
fore, the petition might Be upon the table,
f Mr. Foster and Mr. Thatcher spoke in fa
t vour of the committal ; and the motion was
put and carried, and a committee of three
, members appointed to report thereon,
f Mr. Goodrich presented a petition from
. the Deputy Postmaster of Hartford, pray
: ing for additional compensation. Referred
; to a feleft committee.
5 Mr. W. Claiborne prefer.ted n petition
f from sundry citizens of the state of Virginia,
t complaining of being aggrieved by the aft
- laying duty upon ftiils, and praying relief,
j Mr. Claiborne was doubtful as to what
: committee this petition ought to go ; he
1 thought it best to go to the committee of
wayS and menns ; but on bring informed no
; such committee was at present in exigence,
- and Mr. Harrifon wilhing the fubjeft to go
: to a feleft committee, he consented. Mr.
New thought it waald be best to appoint a
- committee to enquire what amendments
- were neceflary to the aft. Mr. J. Parker
was in favour of a committee of ways and
- means; and Mr. Nicholas moved that a
e committee of ways and means be appointed.
A Committee of Ways and Means was
n accordingly, appointed, and confided of the
I following members, viz. MefT. Harper,
- Gallatin, Grifwold, Blount, Hofmer, Craik,
il Brent, A. Folter, Sewall, Morris, Davis,
Sinnickfon, W.C.Claiborne, Bayard, Cham
■- plin, and Baldwin.
x M:\ Sitgreayes presented the petition
e of Abraham Jokes, a brevet captain in the
e war, praying for the pay of a captain, tor
d which he ftatcs h;mfe! c entitled. Referred
;f to the core mitres of Claims,
f* Mr. Dwig ht Foster moved tint the
:s committee of claims be discharged from the
j- further confideraVon of the petition of
i- John Liyman, which had already been more
re than once reported and decided upon. A
it ' greed, and that he have leave to withdraw
ic his petition.
>f Mr. W. C. Claiborne presented the
> remonstrance and petition of the Legislature
if of the date of TenefTee, complaining of the
iiv cxtenfion of the boundary of the United
ve States into the Cherokee country; of the
11- proclamation of col Butler, requiring all
e- persons fettled upon the land included in the
u. boundary, within a verylhort space, and at
c- an inclement season, to remove therefrom,
he by which nearly 3000 persons, had been
t- greatly diilrefi'ed ; of the conduit of Mr.Hawkins, See'. prtyiiij relief.—Referred to
a fele£l committee;
Mr. 0 tis moved that the pstition of
Samuel Moore, of Boilon, praying sb be rs
imburfed a certain ftim of money which he
ftatcd himfelf to have been robbed of, pre
fetrted.laft feflion, be referred to the Secre
tary of. the Treasury—Agreed.
Mr. Sitgreaves said, he was prepared
to make a report from the committee ap
pointed at thelaft fiffion, to fit during the
recess, for the purpofeof collecting evidence
and substantiating charges againll William
Blount a Senator of the United States, im
peached of high crimes and mifdemeauors ;
but as that committee was appointed arid
received its inftruations with closed galleries
he supposed, except the injun&ion of secre
cy were taken off, it would be neeeffary that
the galleries (hould be closed whilst tha re
port was npade, thpugh the committee were
of opinion there was not any thing in the re
port, which ought not to be made public.
He therefore moved that the report Ihould
be received in the usual way.
The Speaker read the rule of the house
on this fubjedl, and said, he did not think
any motion neeeffary, if the Committee
were of opinion, secrecy was not neeeffary.
Mr. Thatcher thought it was neeeffary
th it the iijunftion of secrecy 6ught to be
taken off before the report was made.
Mr. Sitgreaves made a motion to that
effeft which was carried. He then present
ed the report, which the clerk proceeded to
read.
The Committee state that soon after their
appointment, they received a trunk from J.
Rofs, Esq. containing sundry papers be
longing to William Blount, which had been
seized l»y order of the Senate. From these
papers, they made a feleclion, and returned
the remainder to W. Blount. A violent
presumption arose from the perusal of the
papers, that Nicholas Romayne of the city
of New York, was intimately conne&ed
wish Mr. Blount ; the Committee conceiv
ed it to be their duty, therefore to prevent
'the escape of N. Romayne, by feenring hid
person and papers, and issued a writ for that
purpose, the execution of which they placed
in the hands of the Secretary of State, who
made capt. W. Eaton, messenger on the oc
casion. On the 12th of July, the messen
ger returned with Nicholas Romayne, and
a number of his papers (fueh of which as
are material are reported.) Having finifh
his examination, N. Romayne gave security
for his appearance before the Senate on the
trial of W. Blount.
A letter signed James Grant, found a
'mongft W. Blount's papers, and the letter
from the latter to James Carey, made it ne
eeffary to secure their persons and papers.
Major T. Lewis was employed to do thebu
finefs. He was also to bring along with
him John Rogers.—ln the interim, the
Committee received theexamination ofjames
Carey, taken at Tellico Blockhouse. On
the 25th September, Major Lewis arrived
at Qermantown, with Grant, Rogers and
Carey. These persons were examined, and
Major Grant gave bond for his appearance
before.the Semite.
To complete the series of correspondence
between Mr. Blount and Mr. Romayne, the
letter No. 9, seemed to be wanting. On
the 13th of July, it was received by the Se
cretary of State, under an anonymouscover,
in a foreign language.
Having heard of Capt'.Chifliolme having
failed fiom Philadelphia, in a veffcl belong
ing to Mr. Wm. Davy, they unt for Mr.
Davy, and examined him; his examination
led to the examination of George Lefher,
and others.
The committee mention that the Cheva
lier Yrujo, called upon them, and made a
communication which implicated a person of
the nape of Mitchell. They immediately
wrote to Major Lewis on the fitbjefl ; he
received their letter, but could not find the
person. A feqond communication was
made by the Chevalier on the fubjedt.
After Hating a number of other circum
flances, which we were not able to colledl,
the Committee conclude their report, by
regretting that they have not been able to
obtain more complete information on the
fubjedl, but assure the house that nothing
in their power has been wanting to obtain it.
The report being gone through, Mr.
Sitgreaves said, the reading of the docu
ments referred to would take up much time
«f the house, and as it was desirable that
they fhotild be printed for the life of the
members as soon as pofiible, he (hould wi(h
the reading might be dispensed With, and
that the yfual vote of printing might be a
greed to.
Mr. Gallatin hoped the papers might
be read, as the report consisted chiefly of a
reference to them.
The reading of the documents was then
eutercd upon as follows :
No. 1. A letter from William Blount to
Dr. Romayne.
2. do. From Dr. Romayne t» William
Blount.
3. do. Dr. Romayne to W. Blount.
4. do. W. Blount to Dr. Rsmayne.
5. do. Dr. Romayne to W, Ji'.ount.
6. do. from do. to ditto.
7. do. W. Blount to Dr. Romayne.
8. do. Dr. Romayne to W. Blount.
9. do.- from do. to ditto.
Mr. Sitgreaves (who read this part of
the papers) mentioned that the above was
the letter inclosed to the-Secretary of State,
anoiiymoufiv, in a Foreign language, sign
ed " /In Eternal Enemy to \Foreign Influ
ence."
Mr. Thatcher enquired in what lan
guage the anonymous letter was written.
" Jv'jTp. Dawfon thought it neeeffary to state
left because this letter was written in the
Spanifli language it fliould give rife to
groundless suspicions, that the committee
had the strongest proof that it was written
by an American gentleman.
10. do. Dr. Romayne to W. Blount.
11. do. John Chifholme to W. Blount,
from Chifholme to Col. M'Koy, and
from Chifholme to John Rogers.
12. do. Dr. R.rr.ayn? to W. Blount.
13. do. from do. to ditto.
14. do. W. Blomit to James Carey,
(which has been ptiblifhed in all the
papers.)
15. do. W. Blount to John Rogers.
16. do. do. to Major Wiley.
17. do. do. to James Carey.
18. do. Robert Lilton to Dr. Romayne
19- do. James Grant to William Blount
20. do. Dr. Romayne to W. Blount.
11. do. do to do
12. do. do to do
23. do. James Grant to W. Blount
24. do. W. Blount to Dr. Romaync
25. do. do to do
26. do. Dr. Romayne to W. Blount
27. A writing among the papers
of Dr. Romayne and acknowledged
by him to be an unfinilhed letter to
W. Blount
28. A paper endorsed by Judge Turner,
containing an account ot different
military ports.
29- W. Blount's circular letter, after his
impeachment (which has been pub
lished).
30. The deposition of Dr. Romayne be
fore the committee. The deponent states,
that hehadbeenacquainted with Mr. Blount
since 1782 ; that he became acquainted
with Chifholme whilst in treaty with Mr.
Blount inland (peculations ; sometime as- ,
ter the deponent intended going to London
toifell'land, but the falling in'priceofthatprop- j
erty prevented him ; -.at Governor Blount j
was to have procured a law pasTed in Ten
nessee to eaable aliens to hold land, the de
ponent spoke of the different letters which :
had passed between W. Blount and himfelf 1
011 the fubieft of Louisiana, which the for
mer regretted the Englilh did not poflVfs,
and spoke of going to England on the busi
ness, he regretted the Floridas did irot be
long to the United States. It was under
flood between them that it was most favora
ble for Louifia'ua tobelongto the Spaniards, j
but that the Englilh had much better have j
it than the French ; they agreed that it '
was neeeffary to found certain persons in
Philadelphia on the fubjeft, as well as in ,
Virginia and the southern states, spoke of;
his conversation to Blount about going to
England ; but that Mr. Blount neglefting ■
to answer his letters, he gave up the proje£l.
After this evidence, follows the »rofs examlna- !
tion of th-: committee- The letter# which paiTed j
bttween W. 9|ount and N Romayne bear dat: !
from Feb. to May, and are chiefly on the proje<ft J
of going to England, on the business of l.ouifiana. '
Mr R. frequently fpeakswith great confidence of
fuecefs, and often introduces in his letters the fcri
tical situation «f the European powers, and the
improbability of peace.
31. Ncii follows the examination of Mr. Will
iam Davy of this city, which relates to the failing
of Chiftolnie in the brig fohn Henderfon, which
1 r chartered and which elear'cd out for Hamburg, ;
but was bound fer I.ondon on the 20th March ;
that his pafTage was taken and paid for by R.Lif
t*n, by means of Mr. Thornton ; Mr. D. repeats
converfarioh whiefc. took place betwixt th?m as to
his business; that he was to command a squadron
against Penfacola, and a variety of other circuro
flareet; Mr D, also mentions several interviews
with Mr. Lifron on the business. He also produ
ced a letter from his brother in London, mention
ing Chilholme having endeavored to get money
from him ; but before h- gave him any, he appli
ed to h-rd Grenville's oflwe, to know if he had
got mrney from thence, and finding they had sup
plied him larg&ly he declined letting him have any.
3»< Evidence ofGerrge l.efher relates to Chilh
olmc's being at his house with a party of Indian?;
of his conmrfttMn about to Furope, and of
his business tfeere j that whilst he was at his h»i>!c
he was arretted far 100 Hollars, and th-»t he told
him he was obliged to Car r rificf a nore of Mr Bond's
for 500 dollars «t al'fs of five or fix dollar. 111 the
100, to f.'isfy the demand.
33. The cYaminatlcn o! William Bell re r utes
what is said above about facrificing the noteol 500
dollars, as he flates.th'it he gave Cbifkolme credit,
from time to ti* c, and that th note of 400 dol
lars was not paid at all.
34. A letter from the feciet.ity of (late to the
committee, ftjfiiig what had puffed between him
and the British mmifUr, in which amor.gft other
thirds, it is aliened that Mr. Liftongave Chifh
olme no money at all ; that he only puii hispaf
f.ige to the owner, and gave him au order fcr 2cl
on his banker in I.ondon.
3J. A note from Mr. Lifton to the feeretary of
(late
36 Lord Gronville's note tb Mr. Lillon, in
which the British government declines to accede
to the proposal» made to them rcfpeilling the Flo
ridas, &c.
37. Evidence of F-Jiiha B. Hopkins wiih refoi<2
to conversation held with Chifholme.
38. Dr. Charles Buxton's examination relates to
csnverfation betwixt him and Dr. Romayne
-59. J*hn Franklin was examirei with rel'pe.3 to
Chifholme being at Lexer's at the fame time with
him. Spoke of his conversation refpe&ing Leui
llana and Florida, W. Blount and the British inin
i(Ur.
40. James Carey's and John Rogers's evidence
went to the fame < fF«£.
The readi f of the papers having continued for
more than two hours, and it being three o'clock,
Mr. Dent fuid, as h<* ebferved there were yet ftv
cral more papers to read, he Ihould move for the
house to adjourn. Ihe motion was carried 3J to
31-
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, Dec. 4.
COMMUNICATION.
The charge of the chief justice of Penn
sylvania (Mr. M'Kean) to the grand jury,
at a court cf oyer and terminer, held at Phi
ladelphia, on the 27th ultimo, has become
the fubjetl of much convetfation, more es
pecially however that part which refpc&s
the " crime of libelling."
We have paid particular attention our
selves to this part of his charge.
We di cover in it, it is true, many fenti
meuts which have much weight ; but we
have not fo.ind anv which are peculiarly
new, as far as relates to general principles.
We wish we could give his honor as !
much credit for.the application as for the fe- j
le&iori of the opinions he has offered on
the fubjedt. j
A Jiu died, and finally a dire A charge a- |
gainlt an individual editor of the city of i
Philadelphia, appears, moll clearly, to have !
governed the judges' mind, while elucidat
ing the cases of libel*, which were more im
mediately cognizable by the jury.
Warrr.th of temper, if our recollection
fe'rves us rightly, hss been, and ret f;ldom, i
attached to the operations of the judges' i
mind; and a little more caution and cool- 1 1
ness perhaps would have been ferviceslile to ; i
him on the occa-fion of which we are speak- •
It is far from our wish to vindicate the | '
Jicentioufnefs of the pref-', or to exculpate t
i any individual impiicat.'din the charge ; but •<
when we think we perceive a regard
■paid to the feelings of the foreign objeCt3 of c
the fupp/ifedheels, than to our own magif- 1
t rites', who have been frequently the fubjt&s I
of greater scandal, we cannot hesitate to \
pVoito«:;ce the present notice of thvra, far- j
tidl, incbnfjlen!, and derogatory to our nation- j a
si honor atidint};pen'd:n:c. c
Pauti A't, bcciufe a pointed and ftremi- t
ous support of the foreign rmiilllers of tiie I
French and Spanifn nations, li'Widently at- 'v
j tempted ; while foimer vfle nnd 1 tinjuft chSr- 1
ges.agtitift our lit; and pvefeiit chief magif- t
trate, an j the heads of departments, issuing
i from other presses, have not onlyefcaped the I
notice of the law, but been openly tounlcnan• J
c'cd. 0
' Inconsistent, because- Mr. M'Kean li
himfelf, in another part of his charge, enfor- f
ces the injury arising from the de trail ion of
; public characters, by remarking— \
" And where libels are printed against b
( persons employed ii> a public capacity, they c
i receive an aggravation, as they tend to fcan
dalizc the government, by reflefting onthofe n
| who are entrufled with the administration of
j jHiblic affairs and thereby not only endanger n
the public peace) as all others do, by stir- f
: ring up the parties immediately concerned p
to a£ts of revenge, but have also a direst J
' tendency to breed in the people a dislike of c
their governors, and incline them to faction t
and sedition."
Yet the notorious and flagrant violation o
of every principle of moderation and juitice, h
: have been long permitted by editors, equal- I
: !y under his honor's cognizance. n
\Vj consider his present notice of libels as n
I derogatory.to oar national honour atid r
: dcnce, forafmuch as the view which the so- 1<
reign powers (and even those for whom the' a
i judge lias exprefTed so much delicate anxie- v
; ty) will have of that condu£t which over
looks our domestic charadter and intcrefts,
while it is tremblingly alive to the feelings of
, those who cannot rightly expedt fucb atten- S
! tiou. I v
j Mr. M'Kean is pleased to diflinguifh be- ; I
1 tween those publications which " are forthe ' c
■ purpose of reformation, and those of defama- !
lion." This is a very just diftin£tion ; but b
would have appeared in better colors, if it : e
had been made, and afted upon before. j f<
We equally agree with his fentlments a:
when he fays (fpeakiag of libellers) " were w
those to escape witk impunity—the faireft tl
and bed characters, that this or any other r
country ever produced, would be villifyed w
andblafled, if not ruined." ir
There are so many of those " faireft and 1:
bell eharafters that ever this or any ether |
conntry produced," the vilifications of ai
which have afforded ample opportunity for u
the exercise of his honour's watchfulnefs ; t(
but this, it appears, has been specially re- j
served for those Foreigners who have not :
only " vilifyed " those ornaments of our t<
country, but have in every pofiible shape,
interfered with our most sacred rights as h
freemen, and injured our most cflential in- tr
terefts! j tl
—— • c
The following interejling though melancholy
circumjtance is lately given as afa 3in the r;
London Oracle. si
By Utters from Mill-Jlreet, in the county tf si
Derry received yejlerday, the fulloiuisg particu- . p
lars have reached town:— ' p
Mr. o—use, a refpe3able ger.tlemnn in the fl
neighbourhood, received an anonymous letter 1
that his only daughter carried on |an intrigue F
ivith the fan of an eminent la-wyer, then in the I
country, d
The Father lijlened to the tqle—the inno- ti
cent levities of his child he conjlrucd into an un- 7.
becoming forwardneft —he conceived her guilty
—and the fondnefs of the father was overcajl p
with gloom and grief. Dijlrujl took place of C
confidence, and he meditated a deep revenge a- I
gainjl the man whom he looked upon as the
difpoiler of a child' $ hofitur. a]
Penfivc gloomy, and djJruflful, every effort n
of the daughter to cheer her fond parent only \\
served to rivet those opinions which he too has
t'lly fo>-med. The daughter apprehended ade
ratigcment of h'tf mental faculties, and watched
all his motions with evident marks tf fear and ai
trembling. Thus were the pious a/Jidulties of the t;
child imputed to a confcioufntfs of her own guilt, if
About a fortnight agn, the fatal evening ar- 01
rived when death drops the curtain on thefhoc- tl
k'vtff catajlrophe. it
The father repaired to a copse adjoining bi
his own garden, where he surprized the
youthful lovers in amorous dalliance. Rage
had flopped the power of utterance—he was is
about to present the fatal pistol at the fond ol
pair. ol
Just at the instant his purpose was shaken ei
by a piercing shriek. P
It was the .shriek of the daughter, who
had watched her father, whom she feared P
had long refolded upon I'uicide.
She seized kis arm—the partiesmade their ri
escape. .
The offending female, it appeared, was =
her own waiting woman, who dressed her
felf in her mjftrefTes' clothes to meet her
lover.
The truth ruflied on the father's mind,
he haddebafed his darling childbyfufpicion.
He was in the a£t of committing murder—
reflection ftept not betweenhim and death—
he clapt the pi'ftol to his own head and ex
pired in the daughter's arms.
The young lady has fallen a victim to
melancholy, ane the return of her senses is
hopeless.
BOSTON, November 28.
A CONFLAGRATION. 7
D uring the elapse of a very considerable I
time, Bolton has not experienced those cal-
amities from the fiery tlefrient, which it has ,
too often witneficd, and to which, from its r
couftrudion, : dtvc,tc(3. Tii.* f<l
ifity prod". bf th<" iufpeu?rt.-n of
1 these diftri-;-. rrd? iv j# fu periWsrd s>;
: the l'noft pt?:;," ■ 'i«.by t» event cf
• y«ft<rday moni:r..r.
J Fifteen ro mutes h.-rore two o'clock, the
| building occupied by Mrs. Rro-vlers and
I Sirs. Wcftefn, oh served in a flame. So
■ complete?* h id the fin-sttnmsd the rnaftery
•when difcov;*7cd, .that it was with extreme
difficulty the tenants of tilt building escaped
with their lives. The alarm was firft given
by a person in the llreet, when the Maz<;
was pouring.out of the windows, and two
people jail milling frum the doors. The
always-alert Inhabitants were soon fnmmon
ed to the fcens which required their exer
tions; but notwiilulanding the moit fpiritcd
labour directed by. the niccd judgment, the
'voracious flames made more greedy by the
high wind which prevailed, eon fumed the
building occupied by Mrs. Broaders and
Western, and the hotifes improved by Mr.
Haggar,Mr. Evans, Mrs. Montcrief, Mr.
Jarret, and Mr. Farmer; when the course
of the conflagration was flopped. The
house of Mr. Hoffman, on the windward
fide of the fire, was much injured.
Mrs. Broaders had a well fumiflied hotife,
with accommodations for a large number of
boarders, and a handsome stock cf seamen's
clothing, which were mostly confuir.cd.
Mrs. Western, loft all her furniture, and
most of the articles in afmall huckfterVfhop.
Mr Haggar, the owner of the places te
nanted by himfelf, Mefi'rs. Farmer, F vans >
Montcrief and Jarret, have been the princi
pal fufTerers in' this melancholy occurrence.
The eflate might be valued at 30001. pur-
chafed with the earnings of induflry, and
the savings of economy.
Mr. Farmer preserved piofl of the stock
of a large grocery (tore, but owing to the
hurry of removal has to regret the loss of
ioil. worth of property. He desires his
1:10 ft grateful thanks may be tendered to the
numerous friends who assisted him. The
relt of the persons mentioned experienced
loss in the removal of their property, as did
also, the occupiers of houses and itores to
which the flame 9 did not extend.
FROM FRANCE.
On Sunday arrived at Plymouth, capt.
Spooner, in 46 days from Bourdeaux. Se
veral of our obliging friends favored us with
Paris papers to Oct. 3d received by this
captain.
The .profpedt of the renewal of hostilities
between France and Germany is undiminifh
ed- Every preparation on each fide is per -
fevered in. The last official news from the
army of Italy was to the 23d of Sept. at
which period the Emperor had not acceded to
the last propositions made, fay the Direfto
ry ; but the Paris papers fay, the Directors
were forming a new ultimatum, which they
intended to submit to the Emperor, as their
last overtures for a pacification.
The armies of the Rhine and Moftlle,
and Sambre and Meufe, were to be united
under Gen.Angereau, and form one army,
to be called the army of Germany.
The Cis-Rhinian Republic is organizing.
It is Itated, that the Bririftr havrtrfked
to feud a new Plenipotentiary to Lille.
Every branch of the French Government
had been occupied in doing honor to the
manes of Hoche. In the funeral procession
the bull of Franklin, our Countryman, was
carried.
Nothing new is mentioned of the Conspi
racy. The most rigorous measures wereper
fevered in to prevent the denounced party
from gaining an alcendancy again. It was
proposed in the Legislative Body that all
paflports interior to that date (Oct 1,)
Ihonld be annulled.
It foems that Carnot, Boifly d'Anglas,
Portalis, Pafloret, Dumolard, Duplanter,
Imbert Colombes, and some others, con
demned to transportation, had been so for
tunate as to escape, and had reached Swit
zerl rnd.
The American consul at Dunkirk, incul
pated, as is said, by some papers found at
Calais, has been arrested by order of the
Direftory.
The interior of France was considerably
agitated in parts remote from the govern
ment. Rebellion cxiftcd, and afTafiinatians
were frequent.
Extraft of a letter from Paris, Oft. 4.
" Two of our Commiflioners have arrived
at Paris, we hope they may be able to re-es
tablish the good understanding that once ex
isted between the two countries, and set
our political and commercial relations upon
the footing they ought to stand. Certainly
it of importance to both that amity (hould
be restored to them.
Captain Spooner fay 3, little information
is to be obtained at Bourdeaux, as freedom
of discourse is dangerous; and on account
of the frequent detlruftion of the post-rid
ers, papers are not regularly received from
Paris.
Talleyrand Perigord is fuperceded by one
Pagena?, as Secretary for foreign affairs.
A packet from London, in 32 days, ar
rived at Halifax, November 12.
We have Halifax papers to November 9.
For Sale by the Subscriber,
10 bales Cofl'is
40 do. Baft as
11 do. Mamoudy
17 do. Chin:z
7 do. Tookciy
a do. Gorah»
15 do. IVse>ra£iino-ee* '
5 do. Check Strife*
1 do. Guzzie
I box Diapers
7 do. U-ol r. lias
25 pipi*fij»e-* particular Madeira Wine, of
the vinfiy*'* t-'qc.
MORDECAI LEWIS.
PfcmVrr c 3»W4W
Geenteel Boarding & Lodging.
A Family may t>c accommodated with a Draw
ing Reoivi, two Cea Chambers, and fuitabie
«(commi>r'»ti< 0 for fcrvants—at no. jz, north
fourth i'.rcct. Die. s—*tts5 —*tts
PHILADELPHIA',
• rr-F.-p ,v ev.^!^.>, df.cf.mber s .
> J•'«» C»LPv.-r.t.t,.J;f I S'4ap Ms lntulChi«f-e;.ris
- in t»e .Vur Ifcjfenaciit, vice John Esq. re.
TM* May iv appohffc'i:.fcA the'-, ire-.tinV of the
1 krgiflaituiv ot. th ; Common wealth 01 Pen fylvu
♦i:a, Ht tii-t it,Lit2 houfj in this cuy.
; W'i; oblirre by a puMicifoo in th : " ura>ra that
.he 1 hcatre is to be opened on
Price o: Bjx and Pit to be reduced to tucir ori<»>
lljl llmidard. °
Richard Harpy, arraigned for tcunterfeiting
' and ilTuiag j-if.: coin, was fciuid guilty in fo r n\
' and planner according to imiiilmcnt ; and was
| fent-irc»d to ao dollars penalty and jmprKonmenr
; in tli-gj d asj penitcmi.try hoaftrfor five ye«r» •
' I befi 'es forfeiting to the Commonwealth ail his
i Un.dj, £tc.
: | A piper in the German jangu ge, under the t'tb
ef TbfXjtrntan "i. to be pubiifhed at
Lancjiler on thj flril Jrnnary next
frequent compla'.ut* 3TO heard of impolitionii
on the part of inriUseprrs t-v.var' * tr'vellersinthe
■ 11.I 1 . who aye compelled iti g.> to such taverns as
| the proprietors of the Ua:(;s lea proper to carry
t i„m to—.. a ra'jn was lately charged, and compel!-"
• eljo pay, at a h'nfe i.i Vrcnton, thiee suxl
i linos for a howl of bre.ti and milk !
It is not an uncommon t'.ing for the lives of pas- ■
i femrers to i.epn: in j-. i.i-.x'y by tlie careictThefs or
; unikilfuludsof ihe dage drivers. A fiage "bound
i to Baltimore the w _:ek before last, wajuvcifit and
I'.'vrral ot the p-|jllVn<*e'* H* fly wounded. It was
I l »id the driver wai-in'oxicare J. 'Che prasice of
I giving dri.ik t*< to r'le drivers to in Ij "e them to
dr.ve U'der, occ.'.S his ions of ilufc acci.i..tfC*.
Married, on Saturday 25th Nov. last, by ;hi
Rev. Dr. Collin. Cap s . I'humas Morgan, of this
city, to Mjfs Mary I'urm-r, djugh'er of Mr.John
Turner, ol Southwark.
* + * The Utter to the Snbfcriber in the G'azettt
0) the United State! of the 14 th and 28th Nov
by another Subfriber, is received, and uuder
cotifidsration.
Cj" A stated meeting of the Philadelphia
Society, for the information and affiltance
of persons from Foreign coun
tries, will be held To-morrow Evening, 6th
inft. at 6 o'clock at the College in Fourth
Stree—Pun&ual attennance is particularly
requested.
THOS. L. BRISTOLL, Sec'ry.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Arrived. days.
Brig Grace, Wills, Amjlerdam 60
Schr. Charlotte, Jack/on New-I'ork 2 I
Maria, Eugene Virginia 21
John Brown. Stratton Do I 8
Peggy, Dalby Do 20
Nancy and Belfey, Hall Do 15
Betsey, IVelfh Bojlon 14
Stoop Brumo, Burr N. Torlc 11
Prilident Skidnore Do IO
Start, Fojler Bojhn 13
Capt. Wills left at Amjlerdam, the Dfpaich
Dennis, to fail in 4 days for this port.
'The brig Lovely Lass, Dominick of this'
port, failed 8 days before the Grace, for Bnjlon
The /hip Voltaire and Clothier, together
•with the brigs Minerva, and Pilgrim, all
out-wardbonnd, Irft New- Cajlleytfterday mor
no.ig Ihe Jloop , captain Brown, from
New-Tori to Philadelphia, Was cast away loft
Thursday, on Hereford bar—captain and crew
' saved.
The Jlip Thomas Challly, Clark, fr m
Martinico ; John M'Ncal, from Amjlerdam-,
Mary, Patton.Jrom the Havana ; brig Ttuir.t
from St. Croix, andJpveral others tvert at th*
fart lajl eveniug.
Baltimore, December 2.
ARRIVED. »
Ship Jan?, Smith, Bremen
Carolina, LuHier, Havanna
Seymour, Nelson, Philadelphia
Juno, Sesgftunehe, Bremen
Catharine, Ruffe], Guadaloupc
Fanny & Jane, Conway, Hifpaniola
David Stewart, Jones, Jamaica
Betsey, Dougle, Halifax
Fauorite, Carter, Norfolk
Schr. Betty, Corfuch, > Hifpaniola
Ceres, Higgins, Port-au-Prince
John Viniifg, Connell, Martinique
Guardian, k_, Weft-Indies
Lydia, Whittlelby, New-York
Preiident, Blin, Washington
•William 8c JofepTi, Riddle, Paifama
[quady.
LANCASTEiI, December 2.
On Wednesday the 22d the Canawago
Canal, was opened for the firft time for the
palTage of boats. The Governor of the
Commonwealth and a great number of citi
zens attended. We are told the Can:.l is
completed in a masterly manner, and equals
the molt sanguine expe&ations oftheCom
UHIAA Smitu,
No. 29, t Tih Thir l Greet—has for talb,
A iiGiit nnd'gerrtcral of
Broad CicthSjKerfeymeres^Napt
an»« Drcih Coatings. also,
A variety of Gt'iuL-mens' faftuoaabie fancy Wa.O
coati«g, fiik H«fiery,
r>e"emhrr 5. *rod"»w
FOR SALE, "
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
including 1 orig Primer, about 401 weight, in
good condition, and would anfivtr the purpose of
a country printer as well a? new.
Kntiuire of the Printer rnv 30.
Wanted, to Hire,
Al.arge and convenient HOUSE, in or n<-sr
the centre of the city—for which a gcueriu*
rent will be given ; to'be taken for a year, <r cn
more for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer.
OA. 17. eotfFOR SALE— by tilt Suß:e»'B.-ils,
An elegant aitortment of MadraH;
HANI)kERCHIEFS. by the bale.
WILLING? & FRANCIS, J
nnv ?, t. $ , I'enn- reet ;
FolT SALE, r ~ c
. BT 'THE i USS C/'IBERS, •'
Madeira Wine, tirft quality, in ;
pipe, c
M.i ;l ■ir.v 'A'ine, New-York quality, in pipes „
NUTMEGS'} ofthe I,tea i m P or,atlon ' in I>ox -' s
Spanish Wool, 111 Bale«, fuitiblefor Hatters.
Willings & Francis,
Penn-ftrett," No. it.
Nov. 1. wScstf j
"""" FOR SALE, ' v
by the No. U, lVnn-flreet, j
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges, \
John Green, comman;!er, from Bengal, 1
Cmfijliig of '
Baftas, of various qualities & prices (
Coffacs • Furjum Cloths
Sartaht 6uzz y do.
Jl!i*iihums Charconna Dorea
"i'.f Cloth Tanj.bs
Chintz aotl Calicoes MulmuW
Mamaodys Checks , j
Maharagongej Patsa Hhkfl.
Oiu^ha.i:« fv?ulmul do.
o'r',i.*iVas Bandanno.'s
Gut'rahs Siflcrfoy
. Pinialcoes Choppa Romals
■Salgatchys S "0» y do. i
Gillie tvomils Persians of various colours j
Mock I'alic'.ts
200 tons SUGAR J
99.000 U>. i'KpPER. ; ,
Willings & Francis. , i
The Piece Goods
Of the G are ttow open and cxpofed to fide st
that commodious llore the north iftd corner of
Mark's and Fourth 'lrifet. !,r) '■ ''
L A A! D 1 N G, |'
From on thefhip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell, j
commander, fr«n\ Loudon, 1 t
60 tons of the belt clean Rufiia t
Hr.MP 1 ' !
60 raftsol bottled BROWN STOUT.
For Safe by thi l'u'bfcribers, No. 21, P«nn-ftreet.
Willinzs Ss 5 Francis. \
OaHtl d ;
jalt arrived,
From Port-ainPrince, and for Sale b/ the fflbferi
bers, No. 11, Penn-ftreet,
6 -.2 hogficads,")
81 (prime Coffee
J33 barrels (
646 bags J i
Willings b 5 Francis.
\pft. 2S. i_ '
FOR SALE, bt
Joseph Anthony Co.
No. 5. Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeauxßrandy, ift and sd
proof, just landed
250 bales of Bourbon cotton of a superior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon of the firft quality
High proof Jamaica lpirits
Old' London particular Madeira wine /In pipes &
do. market do qr. caflcs.
New England rum in hogftitads
Genuine Holland Gin.iu pipes
Claret in e*f s
Sperniicctr candles andftrainM oil
Prime 3dfton beef
Choice Mali fa:; Salmon in bvrcls and half barrels
I>y Herring; in do do
Bed Boston Mackarel in parrel® of the fall fare.
New-England t-»w l : H«n
A few tons of Ruifia cordage
Ruilia father b-ds
Clover and Timothy feed in 2alks
Long whaJc-bpne
No 1, 2, and 3» Bodon fail duck
A few che!ts firit quality Hyson tia
Cirolina rice in whole and half tierces and
An m>oice of Dutch hollow glass ware.
N.«emhtfr 8.
" NOW LANDING,
At Suuth-ilrect Wharf,
The Cargo of the Ship Concord\
Captjin Thompson, frcm Bitavia.
About tons fir.l quali : y Tava Coffee (the
whole having been fsleiled)
8a tona Java Sugar, in caniders and bag,
13 I enures of oi 1
Nutmegs, M ice and Clows
FOR SALE BT
PETER BLIGHT.
Who also offers For Sale,
i u fl lr.nJed from ihip Amity, from Jarmica.
20S lihds. Jamaica Sugar, and
170 do. do. Ruin,
november 23. _ d6w
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL presents his
nioft compliments to his form
er employers snd the citizens in general, and re
turns his most grateful thanks, for the very
bountiful encouragemeut he has experienced for
these twenty-five years pall, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his school will be
open'd 011 Wednesday the 23d inftaut, at hi»
Elegant Ball Room,
in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
Walr.ut-ftreets. To begin at 10 in the morning
for young ladies, and 1 i in the evening for young
gentlemen. ,
0- Praftifing Balls willcommenee on Tuel-.
dT>', 6th December, and be continued every
Tuesday, during the season.
Nov.' 17. " wlf -
Mitftcal Inflrument Manufactory,
167, Arch-street.
TO THE LOTERS OF HARMONY.
harper, '
INFORMS bis friends and tha public, that he has
now ready for sale, a few of hi* new invented,
and much admired fide beard Pi,mo Fortes, with
Pedals,patent swell, fonopahant an 1 French harp
ilop, which for fenfibiHty of toacb; 'bitHprfcy of
tone, simplicity and durability of conllruCtion, the
fnperiprityof flatter«fhimfelf, » fmg'f tri
al will convince the unprejudiced judgrt—-/Vs they
arc manufaflured under his immediate isfpeihon,
of the v-try be'i fcafoned materials, he can fell 011
reafonablc terms for Cash, liidrum >nts repaired,
tuned, &c.
N. B. second lnnd Piano Fortes taken in ex
change for new.
November 18. I-aw Iran.
MPqrfor is who are indebted to
the estate of William HcrsriAM, feu o Phila
delphia, deceased, are requeued to make fpCedy
payment; and those wbo have any demand* a
gainst said estate, will plcafeto prefeut tSem, pro
p-rly attested, to tbe,fubfcribers.
William Heyfham, 1 (
Robert Hejfbaa. > Executors.
Francis Bowes Sayre, J
novtmier 6. aaw 4w
THOMASU ANDA LL, J
PilF.SliK'l'S I'.ii refj>?a to hi-. itrfcnd*. aud the
PuMic ill gcisral, in't.rws them that hehasop n/d
an Olfice, at his houfc, No. 8",-Spruce llre-.t, lor
tbe purj>olc of tranfa&ing buiiuefs in the line o!
Co"-.million and Af-rcy, colleiling rents a:i.l uut
•landing claim. in any p*rt of the United S'a cs
He flatters hiinfelf, that from his in
ti:is country and a general knowlcdjjfi of it, his ler
eicei will he found worthy the no ice 01 tllofe who
may pUaie to confide to him the Tianagentent of
any of their concerns.
N- B. Security given where required.
llthmo2.| _ fltawtf
DANCING. v
Mr. FR/tNCIS, "
OF ihe New Theatre, refped.ully informs the _
public, that he r.o 'ongcr means to continue I
hi; Dancing School in corjunAion with Mr. Byrne,
but will of en It feparutely early in December, ana
hßpesftilliO receive the accullometl patronage with
which he has been honored, and which it will be
his constant endeavor to deserve
Vrivatt parties may be iuftru&ud at his own
house, No. 70, north Eighth flreet.
November 29. eot^
Wants a 'place,
AS a Wet Nnrfe, a young woman, who can
be well recomm ended. Inquire in Eleventh
street, near Race-street. rtoi>. 27.
*eod 1 w
A Journeyman Hair-Dreder,
WHO is fiber and ileady, and underloads
his business, may have immediate em- ]
ployment, on application to GiiORGE AB- J
BOTT, No. 9, Chefnut-ftreet. Nov. 27. p
eodjw. 1.
Canal Lottery —N*o. 11. ?
fc
WILL commence drawing Monday, thezoth £
in IK Ticket, For Sale in till. Lottery, ar '
Scicn Dollars, at Wm, BLACKBURN'* Lottery x
and Brolterj Olfice, No. 64, South Second-flreet— e
Tickets iu the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten t
Dollars, where check books are kept lor regiflcr- I
ing and examining in theft, the City of V alhing- j
ton, No.ll. and Paterfo* Lotteries, and inlorma- f
timi where tickets may be had in mod of the l.otce- t
rics authorifsd by law 111 any of the States of the (
Union. i
N. B. The bufinef of a B»okbr, in buyingand ,
fellir-g all kinds of Public Stock and Securities, |
difcountiig Bills and I.'otcs of Hand, l'ile of (
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly attended to, |
by Wm. BLACKBURN. ,
november 15. , § t
No r ICE.
THE Stockholders of the Bank of the United
States, are informed that according to the
flatate of Incorporation a general Eleflion for
twenty five Dire<slors will be held at the Bank
of the United States in the City of Philadelphia, j
on Monday the lirlt day of January next at ten
o'clock in the forenoon.
And nurfuant to the Eleventh of the
Bye Laws the Stockholders of the said Bank (
arc hereby notified to aflemble in general Meet
ing at the fame place 011 Tucfday the second
day of January next at live o'clock in the E- .
vening.
By order of the Board of dire&ort,
G. SIMPSON, Cashier.
Second fundamental Article.
Not more than three fourth* of tne Direflors
in office, exclusive ef the President, (hall be c
tagible for the next fuecteding year, but the
Diretflor who (hall be President at the time of an
Eletilion may ahvayjbe re-elc<fted.
Philadelphia, nay.. 18. 1-797. ftE
~ rTo T~i c e.
To holders of JAMES GREENLEAFs
atul EDWARD FOX's Engagements
IN confcquenee of many having been prevent
ed, from late unavoidable circumstances from
obtaining their Certificates, agreeable to former
notice. The Trustees now inform them, they
are ready to issue the fame to those who may ap
ply within fixtydays, at No. 8 Chefnut Street,
and those who do not, will be confidercd as re
linqtiifhing their claim on the Aggregate Fund
provided for their payment.
HENRY PRATT,
THCMAS W. FRANCI,
JOHN MILLER, JUN.
JOHN ASHLEY,
JACOB BAKER.
arvrmber, 23. tuth&fim.
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. Ds La GRANGE,
No. no Walnut-street,
INFORMS those who wish to recur to the only
means of becoming perfect in the French Lan
guage,that he has just opened his Li»ra«y, con
fiding of upwards of 1150 volumes, the bell cal
culated to afford either ufeful inftruiflion, or plea- ,
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue j
of the Library, nny be feeu at every book -feller's !
in town.
n. b. All translations from and into thi French,
Engliih am. Spanish Languages, excited with ac
curacy and dispatch. coir.i .mi>. 1t ■
For Sale by the Subscriber,
"White Plattillas
Brown Hollands
■ White Sheetings
Do.vlafles
Silelia bordered Handkerchiefs
Striped
Black Ribbons, No. 3 and 4
Glass Tumblers, and Looking GlaflTes, in
in cases, &c. &c.
George Pennock.
November 6. eod.iw
" forsaleT"
; By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, th: corner of Chefnnt and Front streets-,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Also, a general aflortment of Tools,
y Eiles and Materials, coafifting of Clock Move
ments, eight Hay and thirty hour brass pinions
and fVrge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, GlalTes, Pu.nice Stone, Emery,
Rotten Stone, Cat Gut; bench, and tail
s Vices; Turns, PHer?,Chains,Seals,Keys, &c. &c.
Apprentices Wanted.
November 3. f&tutf
f ~rhe Miftory of Pennsylvania,
® By ROBERT PROUD,
Jg now in the press, and \» ill be pttblifhed,
with all convenient expedition, by ZfcriA
„ riah PiiuxsoN, jun. Ne. 80, Chelnut-ftreet,
Philad»phia, where fubferiptionr, will continue
'' to be received, znd at the Philadelphia Library,
. iccofdinp to the printed propcials, until the
work is ready for the fubferihers.
July 18. i.-.wtf_
> VVI ND O w GLA SS,
~ Of Superior Quality, and cheaper t'nao any othir in
) r the City—
OF FAMOUS SIZES,
From Bby6to f9 by !4,
Ry the finale or Quantity, may be had at tbo
(lore of the Su'olcriberi, cornet as Arch ami front
liieet. »
James C. *jf Samuel W. bUher.
, Philadelphia, Juneg, 'jlwmwftf
James C. tif Samuel \V. luiher,
AT TfIE.R S TORE, <j
HAVR FOR SALE, ✓
Cotton and worst jd Holierjc i;i trunks assorted
A iew bales red, white, ami yellow Flannels
romall Hamikerciii.lb
Ditto PulUcat silk ditto n \
Ditto Pondicherry and Madrafi ditto
Ditto Gurrahs n
Bengal Mack TarT. ties
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few cherts bea Hyson Tea
•d{f° —-I.foo boxts bed London Window Glnfs, n
from Bby 6, to 19 by 14—and 15 lihda. Glass 1,1
Ware, afiorted, which they will dispose of cheaper
than any h the city- o:
novcmber *>B. _ °.a'.vtf
Imported (via New York) on the
ship Hern, from Madras and Calcutta, and tor _
sale by the fuWsri'itr, at No. 61, Chefntit street, i
bctween and l'bird Streets, the follow
ing articles ,
A'iaha agoqgej CKarcnnwa Dorens
Chintz and Calicoes D*cca worked muslins
Gillis Roma'.s Kindaunoes
Nillas & Penfiafocs Cliafla Uomals j.
' Blue cloth Ilair ribbon 0
MullMullhankerchicfs Palempores j.
Patna do. Banares Opium
Lefler Cardimum Seeds.
Samuel Wilcox.
' novetufcer 17
A farm for sale, }
IN Perth Amboy in the date of New-Jersey, j]
of four hundred ii-res, including a proper (
proportion of meadaw, of arable and wood v
land, and fait marsh : There is oil the premifts, j
a good apple orchard, and a variety of other
fruit trees, it is well watered with springs and 0
brooks, it is bounded on two fules with navi
gable waters and has a good mill site, itsfitua- r
tion is healthy and pleasant, commanding a
view of the navigation of Perth Amboy and its £
environs, and ionvenient to the fined fifh and
oysters in their proper season, it abounds with
natural rnanur? from which, with the advanta
ges of the fait marsh by applying the hay there
from to the keeping of dock, may at a small {
expense, be enriched to a great degree and ren
dered one of the firft grazing farms in the date ,
it is well calculated for a farmer or a gentle- }
man's feat, having fjveral eligible sites for
! building- This farip wilt, be fold together or
divided, as may fult a purchaser, at private
sale, or if not fold, will be set up at public auc
tion on Tuesday the nineteenth day of Decem
ber next, at the houfc of Robert Rattoone, inn
keeper in Perth Amboy, at eleven o'clock in
the forenoon. Any person intjining topurchafe
may view the premises by application to John I
or Matthias Hal/led at Perth Amboy, from
whem or from the Hon. Jonathan Dayton, Elq.
speaker of the house of representatives of the !
United States now in Philadelphia, from Mat- 1
thias Williamfon, jun. efq. or Mr. Samuel Smith i ;
at Elizabeth-Town further information may be
obtained, —and who are pofleffed of maps of
the fame.
Perth Amboy, Nov. 16» 1797-
25 —eodtiSD
FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 75, South
Water-ftrett,
A general aflortmsnt of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattins
Do. do. Lnteftrisgs
Do. • d*». Handkerchiefs
Do. do* sewing Silks
t Imperial and HyfouTeas
Long and (hort Naakeens
Quick Silver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes
AiTorted Glaf6 Ware, in cases
White and brown Havaona Sugars, in boxes
Molasses, in hogfticad*
St. Croix Rum and Sugar, in do.
London particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quarter cafe»
Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chcfts
Logwood, &c. &c.
««/. 7.—tu&f 4 w JOSEPH SIMS.
From Marfcilles.
THE CARGO
Of the Swedish barque Guftavus Adolphus,from
Marseilles, confiding of the following articles,
is discharging at Mr..Latimer's wlurf, and for
sale by the fubferibers
BRANDY, well flavored, of 2, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hogsheads
Ditto, in cases
Frontigniac Wine, in crfes »f 30 bottUs
Olwe Oil, of a superior quality, in balkets of 6
and it bottles
Capers
I Olives
. j Almonds
. ! D»y Verdigreife
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk)
! Taffcties
Long and (hort white Kid Gloves for Women
Silk Stocki> gs
Handkerchief), in imitation of Madras*
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Oftrjch Feathers
Ribbons
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
wi forts
Cream Tartar.
1 BE NT AM IN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANDREWS. •
September *7. eot f
For Sale, by the Package,
For ca(h, or good notes at sixty or ninety days,
vi-/.
r, Book and Jaconet Muslins plain
{ lliipes, and Checks •. A {Tor ted in
do. do. 1 ambonred }■ nack . o . e i
'■ do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & I 0
gentlemen's neck cio- J
' s Jaconet chirttz muslin for home and thf .Weft
I' India market, Pullicote and linen handkerchiefs,
j[ for do. do printed Jo. do. common purple and
1 chintz (hawls.
The above goods entitled to drawbatk on ex
portation. Also a. few fcotchcambticksand an
aJTortment of milfl'm by the piece.
The whole of the above being 1 consignment
from the manufaiSkurcrs «» Britain,
d, To be seen M William BlAckbvrn's
O.Tice, No. 6<, South Second Street,
t, Nov. 6. -.a^tf.
Ie 400,000 weight of choice Sft. iJo
it v lingo
COFFEE,
FOR SALE BY
JAMES YARD.
rovrmber ax. '* !Ct
in Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, Front Street,
HAVE FOR. SALE,
ha 100 Hogsheads of prime Georgia Tobacco,
it- ALSO,
50 Pipes of Ronrdpati.x Rrantly,
io Pipes o.' old Port Wine
Oa. 17. ia,wti
For Sale,
Thai rvrilh\own place, called VjsozemrT's
e I- R R Y,
ON Nefhaminy creak, 18, miles from Phila- ha 1
ladelphia., on the New York post road, W
containing 74 acres and 94 pert-Ire". Upon the coj
pi c-mifeo are a large two ltory done house occu- coi
pied asatvern, and a good one dory done kit- vc
chen, a large frame ft»b!e with a gor-d threshing
door, and fomc out buildings —also a well of 110
t;ootl water, and an excellent' ice Hoyßt., On
this place is a nioft elegant fitujfion fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny to its junction wiih the Delaware, and thence f
across to the Jerfty (h<>rc. it lus the privilege I
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Sn''ici ibtr, CI
MOR DEC .A I LEWIS. lal
Vav 24- 3 taw if. 311
aci
For sale or to be let on ground- ™
rent,
st.valuable l et of Ground ; 011
QITUATE on the noi th-eift corner ofWWa- t0
0 nut and Fifth ftrc-ets, fronting the State- 10
House fqtiare. This lot is fifty-one feet front (
on Walnut flreet, and one hundred and thirteen u
feet and an half on Fifth street j there are at
present two small two (tory brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale, m
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient flores, wharf, &c. situate on j;
Water-ltreet, between Mulberry and Siirafras n-,<
dreets, containing in front on Water dreet sis- fe
ty-fonr feet, and continuing that breadth ead- fu
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the R
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thel'e houses J,
ave the convenitmcc of .public tlky adjoining j A
011 the north Gde, and ate a very desirable fitua- ■ H
tion for a merchant, flour fa<Hor,or others who ; A
may have occasion for storage of goods. This j J
property will be fold on very reasonable torms O
forcalh. For further information apply to the K
printer.
July 31. m&wtf J
Jujl Published,
And to be h»d of McfTrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice, ~
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfcllers in the
city .price one dollat, twmty-five cents, in boards^
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, u. d. ,
Tunc fto. *6t
—i— » c
School Books and Stationary. &
W. Y O~U NG, *
No. ti, Secontl-flreet, eornc-r of Chefnut-ftrect,
HAS now realy for sale, a very large aflort- y
rnent of Engli/b, French, Latin and Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, such elementary books -
on Science, as are generally read in the academics
and colleges throughout the United States. £
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Bidionary, the filth edition, in one v
large vol. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large 12 mo price I dol. 75 «ts.
Ditto, cojimon, price I dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and "
1 writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Pasteboards, '
(heathing aad blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
! blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, ef
the best quality, used in the counting house, or
public office. ■
gT Catalogues of a mifc«llaneout colkAion of •
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as abovo. OA. 24. —3aw6w j
The Norfolk Mail STAGE. j
Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern, j
1 at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in .
Philadelphia, rveiy Tuesday, 'Thurflay, and (
day, at ? o'clock, in the n orning; arrives at Ik)- '
ver the firftday, at Snowhiil the second diy, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the pai'cngcw find (
afafc and comfortable packet to convey them to •
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry, 1
every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, and the (
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wcdnefday and Friday; putsup at Snow .
Hill the firft night, at Dover the ad night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediftance on this route „between Philadelphia
1 and Norfolk, is lo miles less than on any stage route
1 between those places
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to ieturn the whole fare to any
passenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fa.'.ie
distance, so good a road in America,
i Anguft 11. dim, eotf.
City of Walhington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
Amagnificeutiwelling-boui'e ao,ucodollars,
it calh 30,000, ire jo.oo:
I 1 ditto 15,000 & eifh 2j,00e 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cafl) «0,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,00 c
1 ditto 5,000 & cafr 5,000 10,000
1 ca!h prize of »o,oot>
idoi 5,000 each, are ■ 10,000
1: <to. 1,009 - - :o,ooc
io do. 5 00 "
00 do. Ino - - 10, oho
100 dp. 50 " ■ .
400 do. J.t - " l0 ' 000
1,000 do. 10 * 20,000
15,00© do. 10 - »s».°°°
'» i6)709 Prize
-33,261 Blanks.
50,000 X ;c kst». at Eight Dollars 400,000
N. 3. Tofavour thofc who may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will he
£t the L.AST drawn ticket, ancithe
i, but one : ...
d And approvednotcs, fecurinj paymert in cithfr
mon*y or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, \vid
he received foi any number not lcfiithan tic.t-
II This I.ottery wilt afford an elegant fpccimen o!
thtJprivatS buildings to be erciled in the City ol
Waihingtoia—-Two beautiful designs arc alieady
> lel'Af-d for the entire front, on two of the public
8 squares; from these drawipgf it ispropofed toered
t .vocentreand r our corner bsildinys.as soon aspof
_ flhle after this lottery isfold, and to convey them,
7- when complete, to the fortunate acTti.turtrs, in
the manner described in the fchcmc for the Hcte!
Lottery. A nett deduAioa of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necefTai y expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a jiqrtcf
the fund intended for the Nati3n:il Umvcrlity, to
" be creeled within the city of V- afhington.
, The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the Prefidcnt and two Direct
ors of the Rank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount ot the lottery.
e, SAMUEL SLODQIiT.
§ Tiekersmay he had at th - Bank 01 Colsm
i,i, ; - c f James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Feter
tpilmar., Boston : of John Hopkins, i Richmond ;
6f and of 'Aichatd Wills, Cooper's Ferry. «nwf
REMOVAL.
Maurice Moynihan, <
INFORMS his friends and Ae public, that he '
has removed his Store of China, Glals, Queens
Ware, and Dry Goods, from No. 81 North Se
cond, to No. 7i Norjh Seventh Street* north east
corner of Cherry Alley, where he foiicits tie/a*
vcr of his former customers.
N. 3. Crates put up with care at the fliortcft
notice.
November 2. ____
Real Kltate for Sale,
/J) PLANTATION, in a healthy and good si-
L tuation on Cheller Creek, in Middletox >
Town&ip, Delaware County, containing
acres, upwards of 50 acres of which are wood
land,, will timhored ; th« remainder plough land
and watered meadow—of the latter, uiany autre
acres can be made at a small expence. There are
on said premises, a good orchard of best grafted
fruit, a house, with a spring near the dpor, a frame
barn with fl ibling under, and a log tenem»nt on
otiepart of said place. Any person inclining
to purchase, may view the premises by applying
to Wm. L'f.nnbll, on said farm, and know the
crms by applying to Jonathan Penni'll, is the t
1 0 rough of Chciler.
H novemf'er %I. j'teod
Philadelphia, 08. 13.
THE fubferibers inform their friends and cufte- 1
mers in town and country, that their (lores are row
open in the city, and others are daily opening, and
that from the present appearance of the prevailing
disorder have reason to hope, their friends may
fhorrly come «o the city with perfect faf.ty. By
several lst« arrivals, numbers have received frefk
fupplie; of GOODS.
Robert Smith iS> Co. P. IV. Gallaudet Us Co.
John Davis & Co. Sitgreanes ijf French>
A'till Smith, George Dob/on,
Wiltbcrger and Smith, Thomas Ryerfon,
Alex Bit/land and Co. T. R. JTardtnberg.
i Jacob Sperry and Co. "John Smith and Co-
Owen iif Jona. Jones, 'Thomas Orr,
Keppele & Zantzinger, William Barker fe" Co. '
Adam Znntz'.Kger, Thtn.as Armat iSf Snit.
John Fries, J. Miller, jun. and Co.
Benjamin &J. John/on.
o£[. 14
POYNTELL's
Paper Hangings Manufactory,
No. 70, Chefmit-ftreet,
Wbure he his for Sale,
AVERY extensive flock, of every colour, and
of the moil approved patter.is, suitable for , y
• every part of a house, with great variety df bor- t
d*:rs to suit,
—ALSO —
A handsome assortment of the mod fafhionahle
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
very best pain Green and plain Blue,
With Panncl Papers and a rich variety of Bortftrs.
November I. eo6t
FOR~SALE,
A Team of five excellent Horses,
with a Waggpn and Gears. The Horses are all
-young, strong, true to the draught, and capable
of hauling as great a weight as most jn the coun
try. The Waggon and Gears are strong, and
in good order. Apply te ROBERT GREEN,
Well Town, Chelter county, or*to
Thomas Fijher,
No. 142 f S. Second Street, Philadelphia
ti mo. 2, ecd3w.
imported inthefhipMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Mafter,
From Bourdeaux, andforfale by the £uWcriber,
No. ii Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy "1
Iri(h markit claret in cases / Entitled to
Medoc wioe, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatrsyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALS.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter casks
Rota do. d».
Pimento in bags
4COO bulhels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf
! Peale's Museum.
1 ' I 'HIS valuable repository of the works of Na
: i. ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the underflanding, is opened daily, as
' usual. It (lands in an airy and healthy fituatioa,
8 and free si om the epidemic that at present alHidls
T the city; it may, therefor ,be frequented with
> the greatest fafcty.
c As an Ar,tufemeht, the study of Nature is the
most rational ai)d pleating : as a Science, the most
fulilime and inflruitivc. It elevates the mind and
expands the heart. They
tl IVbom Nature's works can charm, iffitb God brmfclf
1 " Hold converse."
Many interring additions have lately been
made to this Museum : and the feathered tribe,
containing a variety of the mull rare and beautiful
s fubjefls, now very 'advantageously arranged.
Waxen Figures, of Men largo as life (fame of them
calls from nature) are here dressed in their prop*
habits,and placed :n attitue'es c'larmSterfiiic of tfceir
refpe&ire nations Hero may be fete the North-
Amcricr.n Savage.and the Parage of Sotth-Air.eri
,l' ca—a 1-boring Chinese, and rNe Chincfe Gentlc
-10 man-r-tl.e fouty African, end the KamtfUudale —
" with fonie Natives of the South Sea Iflahds. "1 he
immense variety and i'ntcrefling diveiTity which
,c this jV!ufeura offers to the view may be seen tut
' uannotbe dcfeiibed with full <
'"(> gy- l> rice only I-4'.h of, a dollar.
«i heyt~lß. law
2 Davis''s Lazv Book Store,
,0 No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING busied for some time part in prtpara
tions for removing into his present house, has,
~ beetv under thenecellity of poftponinguntil.thif day
»> informing the yentlemnn ofthe Bar generally thro'
- the United States, that his spring importation of
n- law books is now an aitjjed and, wtyJor lale, 014
ii* tcrmsthat he trulls will «ntitlehim to the like pre
■T freencc he has experienced for leveval years psS.
Catalogues, (X-mbiaing the reoft varied
er tionever imported i/.to this conritry, are printed
iU an,d will be delivered on application.
!t- June :;. ■
o! Bojfl'oii Ulals Manufactory.
of ""J 'HE citizens of the Ututcd States are hereby
dy I. informed, that the manufacture of \v inilow
lie G'afs is now commented it the Glass House in Bof
:<A ton.
if. Jt is needJtfa to fay nny thing of the excellent
m, quality of theUofton Glnfs, as it is so well In jwn
in throughout the United State? t6 be in ever- refpeA .
te! greatly superior to any ever imported from Europe.,
rill It will Be cut to any flze commonly ttfrd ; and'
un-ay be conftant'.y had by applying to Cuarlks F.
of Kupfek, at the (ilafs House.
to Orders from the distant States to be addreiled to
Mr. Samuel Goiie, Court-street, Boston.
he Boston, Sept 3Q, 1797 O4—lawOyr
(it- Mfjfrs. Throtl'y and Mason, Charhjlon ; Mrjjrt,
at IJodgl und Boylan, Hatifnx, iV. C Trhjfrs. p? ilicit
and O'Connor, Norp.lt ; Mr. Ellis Price, Alexandria ;
SAeJfrs. Tun it ami Brotvn, Baltimore ; Mr. hcptir.s,
m- Neiv-Tori i aiid A.rjfn. Goodwin, Hart
ter ford; Mr. Seymour, Savannah ; are r.'ijttejled to it pit
j ; the above orce a iveck 6 weeks. Tb: tKccu/it. t$M- jor
wf iiarJe tie Editor.