of tije anb Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1629 j
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DR r GOODS.
( Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. ss,
Monday! south Front,Jlreet,
Afternoon—Footman Sc Co. No. 6f
C_ Snath Front-Arret.
f Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
Yuefday< u<£li° n , No. 73 fout'h Front-street.
Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
(. 183 High-street.
Wttotfa \ A ' r tern °°"-P e ' er a « nfon . No. 74
- ( south Third-ftrcet.
Thursday \ Fox.
C Afternoon—John Connelly.
Fridav \ Forenoon—Williara Shannon.
J 5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
Real Hftate for
PLANTATION, in a healthy and good si-
X tuation on Chester Creek, 111 Middleton
Townfliip, Delaware County, containing 1191
acres, upwards of 50 acres of which are wood
land, well timbered ; the re mainder plough land
and watered meadow—of the latter, many more
acres can be made at afmall expence. There are
on said preraifes, a good orchard of heft grafted
fruit,a house, -with a spring near the door, a frame
barn with (tabling under, and a log tenement on
one part of said place.——Any person inclining
to purchase, may view the premises by applying 1
to Wm. Pennbi.l, on said farm, and know the '
terms by applying to Jonathan Pennei.l, in the
( iiorough of Ctelter.
November 21. eod
REMOVAL,
Maurice Moynihan,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he
has removed his Store of China, GUis, Queens
Ware, and Dry Goods, from No. 81 NortS Se
cond, to No. 71 North Seventh Street, north east
corner of Cherry Alley, where he solicits the fa
vor ofhis former customers.
N. 8. Crates put up with c»re at the {horteft
notice.
November 3. dtf
"FOR SALET"
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No, 55, ths corn-r of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Also, a general assortment of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, confiding of Clock JVlove
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and Urge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glasses, Pumice Stone, Emery,
Rotten Stone, Cat Gut; bench, (land and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals, Keys, &c. &c.
* 9 * Apprentices Wanted,
november 3. ' f&tutf
For Sale by the Subscriber,
White Plattillas
Brown Hollands
White Sheetings
Dowlafles
Silesia bordered Handkerchiefs
Striped Siamoufes ,
Elack Ribbons, No. 3 and 4
Glass Tumblers, and Looking Glass««, in
in cases, &c. &c.
George Pennock.
November 6. eodjw
FOR SALE,
A Team of five excellent Horses,
with a Waggon and Gears. The Horses are all
young, true to the draught, and capable
of hauling as great a weight as ( moft in the coun
try. The Waggon and Gears arc strong, and
in good order. Apply to ROBERT GREEN,
Weft Town, Cheller county, or*!o
Thomas Fijher,
No.'l4i, S. Second Street, Phila elphia
It mo. i, eod;w.
Samuel 6c iviiers J^'ilhcr,
ARE NOW OPEKING,
At their Warehuufe, Ho. 17, Dock Street, a frefli
assortment of Woolen and other goods, fuitablc to
the season, received by the late arrival) from Eng
land.
77'fv have also far Salt,
Lilbon
F £s >hhds. quarter calks-
Port Wines, J
Assorted queen's ware is crates, Sw.
lothmo-»3d. dtw3taw3w.
This Day Puhlifhed,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, torner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
Price 3-Bths of a Dollar, «•
Observations on certain Documents
Contained in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United State* for
the year 1796,"
In whieh the charge of speculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Seckitart of the Treasury, is FULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN Br UIMSSir.
This publication presents a concise statement
of the base means pra&ifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the chara&ers of those
persons who arc confideredas hoilile to their disor
ganizing schemes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Messrs.
Monroe, Muhltnburgh and Venable, on the fub
je& ef the documents aforefaid, and a (cries of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt,
that the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring confpiraey on the part
of the latter and his associates to extort money.
A discount of one third from the retail price
wilYbe made in favor ot wholesale purchafcrs, for
cash. Orders to be addrefled to Mr Youn«.
AugvH 25.
" DANCING.
M*. tf Mm. B TRN E,
Of the New Theatre,
RESPECTFUL l 4 Y inform the Ladies and Gen
tlemen of Philadelphia, that Mr. Bvrne's
Academy will commence on the I ft, and t Mrs.
Btkne's on the ad o£ December next,
november ao»
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent wfll be given; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquire of ths Printer.
17- * co "'
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 28, 1797.
For Anifterdam,
r4sr F A ER >
J OHN M'Co-llom, Master ;
WILL fail in a few days, the
,^:>^-*= ** i * part of her cargo being
ready. For freight of fifty t»ns nf Coffee, orpaf
%e, apply to the master on board, at Walnut
ftreet wharf, or to
JOHN SAVAGE.
Who is Landing, out of the said Ship, from Bour
deaur, and For Sale,
Claret in hhds.
White Wine in quarter calks
Claret in cases, of a superior quality
Fidntiniac, }
Sauterne, > Wines in cases
Lunille, )
Prunes in boxes
november 24. $
For Liverpool,
v~«e. The copper bottomed Ship
Hamburg Packet,
Captain Silas Swaik.
A Large proportion of her
u _£x cargo being ready to go on
board, is expeAcd to fail on or about Sunday, the
3d of December.
For Freight or Paflage, apply to the Captain on
board, at Walmft-ftreet Wharf, 6r to
PHILIP NICKLIN & Co.
November a 2. §
FOR LONDON,
THE SHIP
1L I A M PENN,
James Josiah, Master.
THE ftitp is now taking on board her cargo, and
will fail in all next week. For freight or pafTage
apply to the captain, or to
Jeffe sis Robert Wain.
nov 11.
For Liverpool,
The Ship
k&rk&L CLTH ° 1E R '
P 1 Nathaniel D. Gardner, mafler,
fail about the 15th
\ y inft. For freight or pas
sage apply to the Captain, at Vanuxem's wharf,
or to JAMES OLDDEN,
nov. 3. dtf No 41, N. ¥ront-ftreet.
For Londonderry,
THE BRIGANTINE
SUKET;
William Whitte*. Master.
A strong good velfel, about two
hundred tons, to fail with all convenient speed, a
great Ipart of h«r cargo engaged—now lying at
Willing and Francis's wharf. For freight or pas
sage, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
LartJrrtkerg»f*» wharf
Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel of about three hundred tons.
nov 18. §
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Chish>olm,
ncw vessel, with excelleat
accommodations for
Sails on the ioth of December. For Freight or
Paflage, apply to ROSS bJ* SIMSON.
J Who have to difyofe of
A final) invoice of GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parcel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18. §
For Hamburgh.
The Brig MARY,
Peter York, master,
I Lying at Ruffel's wharf, near Fine
) 'fyjft street, is now ready to take in a
> Cargo, and will fail in wn days.
For Freight, or Passage, apply to
GURNEY & SMITH.
November }/>■ dtf
For Sale or Charter,
GOOD hope,
'waraPGl Will carry about iaoo barrels,and
is ready to take iif a cargo. For terms
apply to
Pragers C 3° Co.
No. 151, bouth Second-street.
Who have forfale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and Teneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf.
Wanted to Charter,
To one port in Hifpaniola and back
faft failing Vessel, of the bur
then of 6 or 700 barrels. For terms, apply to
Benjamin Mo*gan,No. 170, South Front street,
or to ROBERT ANDREW'S,
No. 86, South Wharves.
nvuember 10. §
For Charter,
THE ship
■OAT John Bulkley,
Samuel Volaris, Majler.
lIS vessel is built of live oak
an( j c cdar, of about 30C0
barrels burthen, and ready to receive on board a
cargo.
Jeffe Iff Robert Wain.
oa. 31. L
For Sale or Charter,
The fall failing brig
Brothers,
Lying at Gurling's wharf,
an excellent lingle deck'd vcfle], burthen about
1600 barrels —not twelve months old, and in
compleat order. For terms apply to the master
on board, or to
Jojepb Antbiny Iff Co.
nor, diw.
By John Fennto, N O, iip Chejhut Street.
the ship
COM M ERG E,
Captain Riciiard Wai3tcoat,
From Liverpool is now discharging
at Hamilton's wharf, near the Drawbridge, where
owners of*goo<!s on, freight, will please speedily to
fend their permit*. Said veflc-1 wiil dire&ly after
take in freight on very low terms for Boftoii; Ap
ply to the captain, or to ' '
lfaac Harvey, jun.
No. 5, South Water Street.
A few tons of stone, or faud ballail wanted.—
Apply as above.
November J7 §lot.
Philip Nicklin Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
At their Stores on Walnut street Wharf,
Havannah Sugars, white and brown
IJ hhds. Jamaica do.
3000 pieces ef broad Nankeens
Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighth* of chests
Quicksilver in tubs
Madeira Wine in pipes and hogsheads
Tencriffe Wine in pipe?
Old ted Port Wine inhoglheads
Sail Car.vafs, aflorted, No. I to 8
8 cases of Manchester Goods, confiding of Dimities,
Muflinets, Ginghams, Thickfetts, Corduroys, &c.
100 crates Qlneens' Ware, assorted
Nails, assorted
Black quart Bottles
Yellow Ocre in caiks
A quantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, &c.
100 quarter calks Gun Powder
7 try hate also for SALE or CHARTER,
HA MB ljRG h PACKET,
fP Burthen jao tons, coppered to
fhehends, and completely fitted.
Thejhip MOLLT, burthen 340 toas, a
good veffd, and completely fitted.
The brig AMAZON,\vrthcu IJOO bar
rels, may be ready for fca in a few days.
The whole of the above vcffels to be seen at
Walnut street Wharf. § no». IC.
Rundle y Leech,
Have jud received, and have for Sale, at no. 9,
Walnut-street,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT
Do. bed house CO A LS
Queens* WARE in cases, alTorted
Beurdeaux BRANDY of an excellent quality
Do. CLARET in cases, do.
TUFY HAVE ALSO
For SALE or CHARTER,
tue BHir
PEGGY,
Burthen 125 tons, in excellent condition, and
may be sent to sea with little expence or delay.
LIKEWISE,
WILL'IAM,
Burthen 401 tons,
novembtr 16.
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By (hip Edward, from Madeira, and Betsey and
Peggy, from Oporto, in Pipes and Hoglheads,
For Jale by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFfcRS FOR SALI,
The Ship
AMITY,
Four thousand barrels burthen,
*i<acS=3fe&2iii excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo—about three years old.
LIKEWISE,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 barrels, ready also to receive a car
go—-and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Just landed from the above vessels at South street
wharf. eoim. Nov. I.
James Iff Richard Smith,
TAKE the liberty of informing their friends
and the public, that they have removed their
llore to No. 54, South Frontfrett, next d«or to Ed
ward Fox*B Au&ion Room, where they have at
this time for fale,alarge and general assortment of
European & Eajl India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
William Penn, &c. &c.
OA. ty. ft
Samuel Pleafants & Sons,
No. 74, South Sccond-Jlrect,
HAVE received a supply of Scafonable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on
reasonable terms. Q>l 17 —4 W
ROSS y SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALI,
A few bales Baftas, CofTas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bongal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica, "J
St. Vincents, > RUM. •
and Bengal j
300 calks RICE, snd
A parcel of (hip building RED CEDAR.
06i. 27. § -
Landing this day,
From on board th« schooner Two Friends, Dan
iel Crawley, Master,
80 hhds. and, T amaica RUM,
ji pipes y J '
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer iff Son.
uovember 9. §
For Sale, by the Package,
For ca(h, or good notes at sixty or ninety days,
VIZ. /
Book and Jaconet Muslin* plain
stripes, and Checks . Assorted in
do. do. Tamboured uac t aee ,
do. Ladies handkerchiefs, &
gentlemen's neck do-
Jaconet chintz muslin for home and the Weft
India market, Pullicote 2nd linen handkerchiefs,
for do. do printed do. do. common purple and
chintz (hawls.
The above goods entitled to drawback on ex
portation. Also a few fcotchcambricksand aa
assortment of muslin by the piece.
The whole of the above being a consignment
from the manufacturers in Britain.
To be seen at William Biackburn's
Office, No. 64. South Sccend Street.
Ns>v. 6. "wtf.
Sale of aft elegant Country Seat
AT AUCTION."
On Wednesday evening next, the 29th inft. at
the Merchant*' Coffee-houfe,
WILL BE SOLD,
AN ELEGANT COUNTRY SEAT, contain
ing 6 acres and 40 perches, with a neat two
llory brick House and Kitchen thereon, an apple
Orchard, &c. fituatc on the Iriih trad lane, in the
township of Moyumenfing, about one mile from
the city of Philadelphia. Further particulars will
be made known upon application at the office of
the Philadelphia Gazette, or at the Auction Room
of the fubferiber.
The improvements upon this place, for taste and
elegance, Hand unrivalled.
John Connelly, Autfr.
November ag. dts
A farm for sale,
IN Perth Amboy in the state of New-Jersey,
of four hundred at-res, including a proper
proportion of meadow, of arable and wood
land, and fait tnarlh : There is on the premises,
a good apple orchard, and a variety of other
fruit trees, it is well watered with spring? and
brooks, it is beunded on two fides with navi
gable waters and has a good mill lite, its situa
tion is healthy and pleasant, commanding a
view of the navigation of Perth Amb»y and its
environs, and convenient to the fined fifli and
oysters in their proper season, it abounds with
naiura! manure from which, with the advanta
ges of the fait marfli by applying the hay there
from to the keeping of ltock, may at a small
cxpenfe, be enriched to a great degree ar.d ren
dered one of tfle firft grazing farms in the state ,
it is well calculated for a farmer or a gentle
man's feat, having several eligible sites for
building. This farm will be fold together or
divided, at may suit a purchaser, at private
sale, or if not fold, will be fe« up at public auc
tion on Tuefclay the nineteenth day of Decem
ber next, at the house of Robert Rattotne, inn
keeper in Perth Amboy, at eleven o'clock in
the forenoon. Any peri'on inelining to purchase
may view the premises by application to John
or Matthias Halted at Perth Amboy, from
whom or from the Hon. Jonathan Dayton, Esq.
speaker of the house of representatives of the
United States now ill Philadelphia, from Mat
thias kf r i/liamfon,j\iii. efq. «r Mr. Samuel Smith
at Elizabeth-Town further infermation may be
obtained, —and who are possessed of maps of
the fame.
Perth Amboy, Nov. 16, 1797.
15 —eodtlßD
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, in one vol. oftavo.
By William YoungJ Boolfcller,
No. 52, Second street, the corner of Chefnut street,
(Price, in boards, 8 7 I % Cents)
Neatly printed on fine American wove medium
Paper,
A V IEW
Of the Science «f Life ;
On the principles established in the elementi
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN.M.D.
With an attempt so correfl some important er
rors of that work, and cases in ill ufl rat ion, chief
ly fele&ed from the records «f their pradlice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br William Tatmi & Chm. Mkclean.
To which is fubjeined, a Treatise 011 the aiSion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion lor the cure of diseases of indiredl debility
Andadiffertation onthe sources of Epidtmicand-
Peililentnldifeafes; in whichisattempted topreve
by a numerous induction of fafls, that they ne
ver aril'e from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain states, or certain vicifiitudes of
the atmosphere, by Charles Maclfan, of
Calcutta.
Nov. ai. $ 121
To Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114, corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. OA. 2" —d'f
To be Sold,
A Valuable Plantation,
OF upwards of One Hundred Acres of Land,
well watered, in a Jfealthy situation, about
seven miles from this City ; the buildings may be
made to accommodate a large family, at a mode
rate cxpenfe, and polTeflion had in a few weeks.
Part «f the purchase-money being paid, a reason
able credit will be allowed for the remainder.
Enquire of th« Printer,
november 3 mwftf
JuJl Publifbcd, and now Selling,
By BENJAMIN DA VIES,
At hit Bo«k-Storf, No. 68, High-Street,
The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AND
ANNUAL REGISTERfortbcUNirED STATES
rOR THS V lAR 1798:
Containing complete and correiS lifts of the Execu
' tive, I cgiflative and Judiciary
DEPARTMENTS of GOVERNMENT,
And a variety of ufeful tables, necessary to be
known in every State of the Union.
Embellifbed ivitb t"i'e bandfome Engravings,
One of which is dcpiAive of a melancholy fceoe
thfct occurred during the American war.
oa. is. _■
lInDJ BTED to the Estate of Joseph John
son, of Germantown, in the county of Phi
ladelphia, deceased, are desired to make imme
diate payment, and those who have any demands
against laid estate, are desired to bring forward
their accounts to either of the fubferibers.
ELIZABETH JOHNSON,')
JOHN JOHNSON, Jun. > AdminiftrV
JOHN JOHNSON, }
Germantown, 10th mo. 27th, 1797*
Q&. 31. ft 3 t.
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, firft quality, in
pipes
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pipes
Lisbon WINE, in pipes
' importation, in boxes
Spanith Wool, in Bales, fuitafcle for Hatters.
, Witlings iff Francis,
Penn-ftrclt, No. ai.
Nov. 1. "• w&stf
BEEF.
Prime Beef, fit for India voyages, for fate by
WILLIAM SHEAFF,
No. 16R, High-street.
Also, about fifteen hundredweight ofljees-
Wax.
Nov. T797. dtf.
I HOMAS R ANDALL,
PRESENTS hi 6 refpeits to hi* Friends, and the
Public in general, -informs them that he has vpened
an Office, at his house, No. 88, Spruce street, for
the purpoj* ©f tranfa&ing business in the line of
Commifiion and Agency, coTle&ing rentsand out
standing claims in any part of the United Stares,—
He flattershimfelf, that from his long residence in
this country and a general knowledge of it, hisfer
cices will be found worthy the no ice of those who
may please to confide to him the manage. went of
any of their concerns.
N- B. Security given where required.
t ith mo 24 3tawtf
as* St. Andrews' Society.
rHE Members of St. Andrews' Society, will
pleaf# to take notice, that as their Anniver
sary happens this year on a Fast Day, to be observ
ed by an order of the Synod of Philadelphia, to
which community many of thr members belong ;
it is therefore judged proper to defer the Celebra
tion thereof, until Friday, the firlt of ©ecenibcr.
at o'EJlers' Hotel.
The members are requeftetj to Apply <or tickets
of ad mi {Hon to any of the affiflants, viz. Messrs.
I homas Leiper, Gavin Hami ion, jun. Jamts Hen
derfon, Robert Henderfen, WiHiam H.Tad,Efq.
or! Dr. Andrew Sp-nce.
1 he officers are desired to attend at one o'clock ;
dinner to be on the table at three.
By order of the Boar J,
RICHARD L. -KII, Secretary.
norember24. dtiD
NOW LANDING,
At South-street Wharf,
The Cargo of the Ship Concord,
Captnjn Thompson, from Batavia.
About 300 tons firft quali'y Java Coffee (the.
whole having been leltifted)
80 ton* Java Sugar, in caniilers and ba®-s
10 legurcs of old Arrack
Nutmegs, Mace and Cloves
fox sale Br
PETER BLIGHT.
Who also offers For Sale,
Just landed from (hip Amity, from Jamaica,
jos hbds. Jamaica Sugar, and
170 do. 'do. Rum.
November 23. d6w
FOR SjiLE, sr
Joseph Anthony Co.
No. 5, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Brandy, Ift and ad
proof, just landed
430 bales of Bourbon cotton of afuperior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality
High proof Jamaica lpirits
Old London particular Madeira wine 7 In pipes St
do. market do f qr. calks.
New England rum in hoglheads
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret in c«fes
Spermaceti candles and ftrain'd oil
Prime Boston beef
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrels
Do. Herring in Jo do
Bed Boston Mackarel in barrels of the fall fare.
New-England tow l : nen
A few tons of Ruflia cordage
Ruflia feather beds
Clover and Timothy feed in ;aflcs
Long whalc-bone
No. 1, 2, and 3, Boston fail duck
A few chests firft quality Hyson tea
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow;glafs wars.
N vember 8. d2W.
FOR SALE,
BY THE subscribers, No. 2J, Penn-ftreet,"
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Conjtjling of
Raftas, of various qualities & prices
Coflaas Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Guzz y do.
Humhums Charconna Dorca
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys 'Checks
Maharagonges Patna Hhkfs.
Ginghams Mulmul Jo.
Guzzenas Bandamiocs
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Choppa Romals
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Persians of various colouts
Mock Pulicats
200 tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willing 3 & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges arc now open and exposed to sale tt
that commodious store the north weft corner of
Market and Fourth street. rrov. to.
LANDING, '
From on board the fliip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, frum London,
60 tons of the best clean Russia
HEMP
60 rafks of bottled BROWN STOUT.
For Sale by the fubferibers, No. 21, Penn-ftreet.
Willings & Francis.
OA- 3»- d
Just arrived,
From Port-au-Prince, ar.d for Sale by the fubferti
bers, No. ai,
6a2 hogftieadi,*") '
S !S > Prime Coffee
646 bags J
Willings &f Francis.
oa. 28. §
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in iwhole and half tierces
Boui deaux Brandy
Tenerijfe Wine
Molajj'es
Georgia end Carolina Indigo
Raitns Duck and one bogfbead ps faiit
brujhes.
N. Cs* y. Frazer.
AY jj, Stnti Front Street.
Nov- 1• dim.
[Volume XIIP H I L A DELPHIA,
TUESDAY EVI'NiSC, KOrEMBER 28.
For the Gazette of the United Stales.
7 0 the author of an address under the signature
oj Auother Subscriber, in the Gazette of
the United States of the 22d injl.
S 1 R,
An invincible attachment to candor, and
to truth, a fincete refped for Dr. Wharton
"•as a man <f feience and a divine," and a
wish to fatisfy your mind withrefpeft tb my
motive for publishing the British Review of
his pamphlet, which you profef3 yourfclfi
"at some loss to determine," h5 ve induced me
to resume my pen.
That a falfe conclusion should result from
mistaken or imperfeil premifiss, is not to be !
wondered at. Had you perused the whole
of the pamphlet alluded to (which the gen
eral tenor of your address leads fne to sup
pose you have not) inflead of those ihort and
detached passages of it only, which the re- i
viewers have extrafted, I trust you would
not hare conceived that the sentiments of
it 3 iiVlhor " called fir the notice you have tat- ,
en of them," and cnnfequently that neither
vour utijuft and sarcastic refle&ions upon
him, " as a man offcicXte and a divine," nor
your flriftures upon the dottrines he advo
eates, would have been made.
Dr. Wharton by no means rejedts the o
pcration of human reason in religious inqui
ries. On the contrary, he tells his friend
to whom the pamphlet is addressed (page
12) "It was the laudable spirit of enquiry,
the difpofitien to fathom the divine truths
of religion as far as weak reason is fuffered
to penetrate, that confirmed the eiletm I
have long conceived for you, and raised it to
the name and dignity of friendfhip." Dr.
Wharton justly indeed, denies (with Mr.
J«nkins, Dr. Horfeley, Bishop Butler, and
the Boyleian Ee&urers, quoted by you) the
competence, of human reason to decide upon
some points of the Christian Revelation, but
they • arc those only which are above the
reach of its powers. "Truth," fays he,
(page 4) " is the only objeA of humjn re
searches and human reason : In whatever
shape or circumftauces it appe rs, it claims
our inward adherence or outward profeffion.
But in the investigation of revealed truths, it
must ever be remembered, that they lie be
yond the range and competence of reason.'"
He maintains it to be the office of reason
(ibid) " to examine and determine by what
authority the dei&rines of revelation come
recommended, or on what motives of credi
bility revelation itfelfis eflablifhed." But
that when once the authority and motivts
arc proved, and advnittedto be inconteftible
an implicit faith should be given to its asser
tions. That " revelation (ibid) implies
information of something which reason can
not discover, and therefore must be difFer
entfrom allthe deduftions ofreafon." "The
contradi&ions," for inftatice, (page 5)
" which are conceived by fotne to exist in
the religious system of those christians, who
admit three diftincl relations in the God
head, commonly called perfonfi, are not to
be measured by the standard of reason, by
those who believe the authority of the scrip- 1
tures ; because it must be evident to such, [
that many properties and attributes may '
exist in the divinity, which human reason is 1
utterly incapable of conceiving, and which
the divine wifdora nevertheless may have ;
judged proper to reveal." And again (page '
9) "The christian revelation was fintended
to reveal some truths, which human reason 1
C3n neither discover uor understand. A- j
nior.g these may be reckoned some proper
ties in the Godhead, and especially the di- 1
vine nature of the son and holy spirit. If
this divine nature be revealed as existing,
they who believe this revelation (or the Bi
ble) mnft admit it. Whether it be thus re
vealed or not, is the whole: ftibjeft of con
troversy between Dr. Priestley and his op
ponents."
This fubjeft, Sir, is, I think of too dig
nified a nature for a nevvf-paper difcuflion,
and therefore I shall not presume to enter
upon it myfelf in that mode. Myobjeft at
present is merely to rescue Dr. Wharton
and his pamphlet from misrepresentation and
unmerited eenfure. I believe every candid
peruser of the whole publication will ac
knowledge that the Dr. hks condensed with
in the compass of 59 o&avo pages, more
theological learning, and authoritative ar
guments in favor of Christ's Divinity, and
in my opinion of genuine Christianity, than
any other writer upon the fubjedl: and T
candidly acknowledge, that a wish to pro
mote its circulation among the people, or
as you fay" to procure a sale for it " (though
he can derive no advantage from such sale,
the copy-right to Messrs. Orm
rod and Conrad) induced me to pu'blifh the
Review ; which endeavour will, I doubt not
receive some degree of aid from your critique.
The other motive yoa suggest as probable,
is also true, viz. because I really look upon
the doftrinesof Unitarianifm tobedangernus
and unfcriptural. They are dangerous, be
cause they tend, by inflating the human
mind with extravagant ideas of its own pow
ers and abilities, to lessen or rather to de
stroy its confidenci in our great spiritual
physician, and the redemption which he
hath wrought for us ; and because by ex
tinguilhing that soothing and animating
hope which the doftrines of the divinity, vi
carious atonement and intercession of Christ
inspire, they annihilate the most refined and
sublime obligations of Christianity, and lead
dire&ly into Deism, from which comfortlefs
state, the transition to both speculative and
pra&'cal ath'eiftn is natural and easy. That
such in many instances has been the operati
on of Unitarianifni, melancholy experience
evinces. In England, 'tis well known that
many of its waimelt advocates, and even
those who were most conspicuous in its de
fence as authors, cr as preachers, soon re
linquifhed so feeble In, attachment to Chrifti- -
»ni«y, and finally rcafatted thcnvfelves into
the principles and profeffion of D:fm; nay,
some of them have advanced to the absolute
avowal of ttkfrn. I afft-rt this, not upon
the uncertain and bafeiefs principle of ftlr
rivife or vague report, but upon the solid au
thority ofunqueftionable information. Up
on the Continent of Europe we have seen a
striking example of the fata) influence of a
yowed Infidelity, and pra&icid Atheism, in
the entire subversion of regular government,
' the deftmftion of domestic, civil and nati
onal happiness, and the endeavour to render
the whole world, one mighty theatre of irre
ligion and discord, of rapine and cqnfufion.
In our own Country, where you fay its pro
gress may be traced for twenty years, and
particularly in this city where Unitarianifm
has been publicly inculcated, the moral cha
, ra&er of its inhabitants has indeed fuffered
a mod rapid and alarming degradation.
. That the doftrines of • Unitarianifm are
unfcriptural, cannot I think be doubted by
those who devoutly and candidly "search
the scriptures." To those who are not fully
convinced by them, I recommend Dr.
Wharton's pamphlet, acd the letters of Dr.
Horfeley to Dr. Prieltly, the last of which
I believe Dr. Prieftlcy never thought proper
to answer.
From an opinion thus founded, I befitated
not to pronounce the principles opposed by
Dr. Wharton to be dangerous, unfcriptural
and malignant.
I (hall conclude this rejoinder with the
adoption of your own assurance, that I
fhduld not have taken up my pen, had I
not '• thought your language, and the sentiments
of Dr. Wharton called for the notice I have
taken of them"
A SUBSCRIBER.
Philadelphia Nor. 2jth 1797.
For the Gazette of /to United States.
MR. FENVO,
Having seen many observations on the
fubjeft. of the role d'equipage as required by
the French, particularly those in Mr.
Brown's papers ef Wednesday and Satur
day evenings, I beg leave to communicate
some remarks thereon, it being reprefentcd
as a paper ejjential to the fafcty of our (hips
and commerce.
By the 25th article of the treaty, " in
time of war" every vessel is required to have
" a sea letter or passport that thereby it (hall
appear that the vtffej really and truly belongs
to one or other of the parties, which "(hall be
according to the form annexed to this trea
ty"—they are also to have certificates
Containingthefeveral particularsofthecargo,
&c. " which certificates (hall be made out
by the officers of the place whence thefhip
sets fail, &V."—and by the article it is
agreed that " having exhibited the sea letter
and passport See'."" the Ihip (hall not be mor
I'fled or put out of her intended course &c.—
Here then is the charge offlagrant inju/lice
eflablifhed— thefea letter 13 declared to be the
evidence of property, for it is said thereby it
.shall appear : but if, no matter how it has
happened that the form is not sorredt, is the
veffcland cargo therefore tobecondemned: is
a neutral citizen and a friend to be deprived
of his property, ruined and plunged into
poverty for forms fake ? Suppose by accident
a (hip proeeeds on her voyage 'without her
regjter or any other paper whatever ; if met
| at lea (he is. certainly liable to be cariiedin
; t® port, hut who will fay (he is liable to be
! condemned ? a reasonable time is to be al
lowed the captain or the agent employed by
him to claim the property to prove it, to (hew
! it really and truly belongs to one or other of the
parties—he is told in the language of the
1 law marine and of nations, " your prop
erty and your intentions are doubtful, clear
j up those doubts and have it again." When
I proof that the property is neutral is obtain
ed, it is certainly to be released and a pass
port granted for its protection against fur
ther molestation —fafety should be in the fa3s
not the form, but French fineffe by a shadow
has filched away the substance ! ! !
The certificates are made out " by the of
ficers of the place whence the (hip set fail" ;
who then is to prescribe the form ? is it the
government of the nation whence (he de
parts, or of any other ?
I'he matter is to swear to the property
and that " he will keep and cause to be kept
the maritime ordinances and regulations"—-
what is here meant ? it is that he (hall keep
the French marine regulations -which he does
not even know ? certainly not, it is his own
which he is supposed to understand.
That he will " deliver a lift of his crew
signed and confirmed by witnesses &c." to
whom is he to deliver this ? to the officers
of his own country where he is, certainly ;
it is not said he shall carry it with him, but on
the contrary expressed " that in each port
or harbour where he (hall enter with his ves
sel he shall (hew the present permifjion to the
officers authorised for this purpose." What is
1 this perm 'ijfien ? why the sea letter or pass
port that " thereby the property shall appear
really and truly to belong to one or other
of the parties," and to avoid vexation it is
provided he (hall not be obliged to (hew it
to any other than those " authorized for the
purpose." It has been observed by those
who endeavour to vindicate those afts of
violence and aggrefilon, that without these
particulars our vessels may, nay probably
will be manned by English sailors ! The trea
ty of 1778 being totally silent on that fub
je& has left to the United States the neces
sary power of determining on the rights and
adoption of citizens, and it is evident that
one of the expe&ed and contemplated ad
vantages resulting to France was, that by
our independence an asylum would offer in
time of war to British seamen, every one of
which employed on l»oard our vessels is a
certain service rendered to her enemies,
therefore the more we have of them the
greater benefit to France.
That " he shall carry the colours, arms
and ensigns of the United States"—want of
enfgn ha\ing only 13 flripes in
stead of 15) is said to have been afiigned in
one kftance as cause of condemnation !
What ! (hall Americans be tried in France .
by American laws ? and if Lhofe laws are
found infringed, fhstll they impose an arbi
trary penally, inflift a fine or enforce a for
feiture ?
From hence it is clear that it is not " from
any Inactivate tranllation." Thefuffering
"itrehuM has reason to complain of our gov
ernment. All nations heretofore guided by
some general and known rules in time of
war, have gradually agreed by tacit consent
and general practice on princifilei by which
property (hould be diftiiigUifhed, exppfed to
or protcfted from plunder—thus it is clear
ly undtrftood, " that when two powers are
at war they have a right to make prizes of
the (hips, good's and effe&sof each other up
on the high seas : whatever is the property
of the-enemy, may be acquired by capture
at f«a> i'Jt the property of a friend cannot he
taken provided he olferves his neutrality"—
and by this plain and simple rule of right
and wrong did the United States expeil the
property of their citizens to be determined ;
it has not been so and it may become a ques
tion how to apply a remedy free from the
many evils inseparable from that state which
causes our reproaches and complaints, which
(hall be, the fubjeft of my next.
FRIEND TO LAWS & FREEDOM.
Phi/ad. 27th Nov. 1797.
Tie Senate, in a body, this day waited on
the President of the United States, with
the following answer to his address to both
Houses, at the opening of the present feJJion %
To the PRESIDENT of the United
States.
SIR,
THE communications you have thought
proper to make in your fpeecb to both hou
ses of Congress, on the opening of their
feflion, afford additional proofs of the atten
tion, integrity and firmnefs which have al
ways marked your official charaftcr.
We cannot but approve of the measures
you bad taken to ascertain the state and de
cline of the contagious licknefs which has
so lately afflicled the city of Philadelphia,
and the plealing cireumftance that Congress
is new affemblcd at that place, without ha
zard to the health of its members, evinces
the propriety of your having postponed a
determination to convene the National Le
giflaturc at any other place—We (hall take
into conlideratien the law of 1794 on this
subject, and will readily concur in any a
mendmeut which may be deemed expedient.
It would have given us much pleasure to
have received your congratulations oh the
re-establishment of peace in Europe and the
restoration of security to the person and pro
perty of our citizens from injtiftice by sea
But though these events so desirable to our
country and the world; have not taken place,
yet we have abundant cause of gratitude to
difpofer of human events for inte
rior tranquility and personal security, for
propitious feafona—profperous agriculture,
produftivefifheries andgeneral improvement,
and above all, for a rationalfpirit of civil and
religious libert—and a calm but steady de
termination to support our sovereignty a
gainst ail open and fccret attacks.
We learn with fatisfaftion that our En
voys Extraordinary to the French Republic
had fafely arrived in Europe, and were pro
ceeding to the scene of negociatiop—and
whatever may be the result of the million,
we are perfectly fatufied that nothing 011
your part has been omitted which could in
any way conduce to a fuccefsful conclusion
of the aegociation upon terms compatible
with the fafety, honour and interest of the
United States.—And we are fully convinc
ed that iu the mean time a manifeftation of
the unanimity and energy of which the peo
ple of the United States have given such
memorable "proofs, and a proper exertion of
those resources of national defence which wv
possess, will e&cntially contribute to the pre
servation of peace, and the attainment of
justice.
We think, fir, with you, that the com
merce of the United States, is effentialto the
growth, comfort and profperityofour coun
try—and that the faith of society is pledged
for the preservation of the rights of aom
mercial and fea-faring, no less than of other
citixens—and even if our negociation with
P ranoe flfppli terminate favorably, and the
war i» -Europe ccafe, yet the state t>f society
which unhappily prevails in so great a por
tion of the world, and the experience of past
times, under better circumstances, unite in
warning ns that a commorce so extensive,
and which holds out so many temptations
to lawless plunderers can never be fafe with
out protcftion and defence—and We hold
ourselves obliged by every tie of duty which
binds us to our conllituents, to promote and
concur in such measures of marine defence
as may convince our a»d seamen
that their rights are not facrificed, nor their
injuries forgotten.
We regret that notwithstanding the clear
and explicit terms of the Treaty between
the United States and his Catholic Majesty,
the Spanish garrisons are not yet withdrawn
from our Territory, nor the running ofthe
boundary line commenced. The United
States have been faithful in the performance
of their obligations to Spain, and had rea
son to expeft a compliance equally prompt
on the part as that power. Wi still how
ever indulge the hope, that the convincing
anfwere vifhich have been given to the ob
je&ions'ftated'by the Spani/h officers, to the
immediate execution of the Treaty will
haVe thteir proper effeft, and that this Trea
tv, so rrtutilaTfy beneficial to the contracting
partfes willbefnially observed withgoodfaith.
We thereforeentirely approve of your deter
mination to Continue in readiness to receive
the posts and to run the line of partition bet
ween our territory and that ofthe kingof Spain.
Attempts to alienate the affections of the
Indians, to form them into a confederacy,
and to excite them to aftual holtility against
| the United States, whetherrnade by foreign
agents or by others, are so injurious to our
intereftc at large, and so inlmman with ref
pe£l to our citizens inhabiting the adjacent
territory, as to deserve the most exemplary
punishment, and we will cheerfully afford
our aid in framing a law which may pres
cribe a punishment adequate to the commis
sion of crimes so heinous.
The several obje&s you have pointed out
to the attention of the Legislature, whether
ther they regard our internal or external re
lations (hall receive from us that attention
which they merit, and we will readily con
cur in all such measures as may be riecefTa
ry, either to enable us to fulfil our engage
ments at home, or to eaufe ourselves to be
refpe&ed abroad. And at this portentous
period, when the powers of Europe, with
whom we are connected by treaty or com
merce, are in so critical 'a situation—And
when the conduft of some of those powers
towards the United States, is so hostile and
menacing, the several branches of the gov
ernment are, in our opinion, called upon,
with peculiar importunity, to unite—And
by union not only to devise and carry into
effeft those measures on which the fafety
and prosperity of our country depend, but
also to undeceive those nations who regard
ing us as a weak and divided people have
pursued fytlems of aggression iaconiiftent
with a state of peace betwesn independent
nations. And, Sir, we beg leave to assure
you, that we derive a singular consolation
from the refleftion, that at such a time the
Executive part of our government has been
■ committed to your hands. For your integ
rity, talents and firmnefs we place the most
antire confidence.
To which the Prefidcnt was pleased to make
the following reply :
Gentlemen of the Senate,
I THANIv you ff>r this Address.
When, after the most laborious investiga
tion, and fcrious refle&ion, without partial
considerations, or personal motives, meas
ures have been adopted or recommended, I
can receive no higher tcftimony of their rec
titude, thon the approbation of an Aflem
bly, so independent, patriotic and Enlight
ened, as the Senate of the United States.
Nothing has afforded me more entire fat
isfa&ion, than the coincidence of your judg
ment with mine, in the opinion of the es
sential importance of our Commerce, a n d
the absolute necessity of a maritime defence.
What is it, that has drawn to Europe the
fwperflaous riches of the three other quar
ters of the globe, but a Marine ? What is
it that has drained the wealth of Europe it-
I felf into the coffers of two or three of its
principal commercial powers, but a Marine ?
! The world has furnilhed no example of
' a flourifhing commerce, without a maritime
1 proteftion : and a moderate knowledge of
man and his history, will convince.auy one
that no such prodijy ever can arise. A
mercantile marine and a military marine mult
grow up together : one cannot long exist,
without the other.
JOHN ADAMS.
United State 3,
Nov. 28, 1797.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
BARIS, Sept. 29.
Gcnerrl Dutcrre, who eonduDed the exiles
to Rochefort, ia recalled, diveiled of his autho
rity and arrested. —He is on his way here, es
corted Wy several armed citizens.
WEZEL, Sept. if.
The following letter giving an account of
the proceedings of the revolntionifts on the
other fide of the Rhine came to hand last
night.
Cologne, Sept. 7.
" It will be recollefted that about the
middle of the last century, the free imperial
city of Cologne was the scene of one of the
most awful revolutions. The discontented
burghers revolted against their magistrates,
and obtainedamomentary triumph by means
of violence and bloodshed; but they were
soon obliged to yield to the superior force
of the German empire. The three princi
pal chiefs of the rebellion were beheaded
by order of the emperor. The hotife of
Julich, the most active of the three chiefs
was demolilhsd, a pillar raised on the spot,
and A brass likeness of his head put at the
top thereof. The heads of his two compan
ions were put on poles, and these placed in
terrorem, at the top of two towers near the
Rhine, the one at the upper, and the other
at the lower end of the city.
"After a lapse ofimore thantwo hun
dred years, the partieular honors have this
day been paid to the memory of those three
individuals. The wardens of every church,
(there are above three hundred churches in
Cologne) were invited to cause all the bells
to be rung from 2 to 4 o'clock, and the en
signs of the city militia were dire&ed to dis
play their colours. When the ringing of
bells began, the troops quartered here, drew
up in parade. The rendezvous was at a
private house before which a tree of liberty
decorated with republican flags had been re
cently planted. The proceflion went to the
spot called to this day Julich's place. At
the head marched a battalion of grenadiers,
followed by the musical band of the French
ftaff; and a funeral car, upon which was
placed a red velvet culkion, and upon this
a laurel wreath, destined for the coronation
of Julich's bust. A body of troops, and
the clofed the proceflion. The
faking down of Julich's head cost much la
bour, and delayed the aft of coronation un
til half past five. The head was afterwards
carried off in triumph. But it was now too
late to haul down the other two heads, aa
it was at firft proposed.
There are several perfotis of consideration
at the head of the rcvolutionifts of Cologne.
Mr. De Kcmpis, a man of fomu talents and
considerable property, who has all along
been one of the leaders of the German Jaco
bins, is now president of the adminiftratiort
of Cologne. He was formerly a privy
councellor of his royal hignefs, the Eleftor
of Cologne. Profeffor Gerhard, Messrs. da
Krufft, de Remmel and several young jtirif
consults direst the Jacobin focietiVs of Cob
lentz, and the smaller towns in its vicinity.
Baron de Stein, profeffor Frank, Mr. Va
cano and other merchants, several nionks,
; • ! almost all the students of the university
aremembersof the popular focietiesof Treves
and zealous advocates of a fep' ration from
the German empire.
TORTONA, Sept. 5.
A body of Genoese troops have marched
into the Tuscan county of Pontremoli, and
formally taken pofTeffion of that territory in
the name of the Ligurian Republic. Pon
tremoli belonged formerly to the Genoese,
but was taken from them many years ago,
by Tufcany. A report was spread that an
engagement had already taken place between
the Genoese troops, and a Tuscan regiment
of horse sent from Florence to difpoflefs th«
former, but this intelligence is at least pre
mature, and it is hardly probable that the
grand duke should rifle to employ force.
The Cifalpines are not in the least afraid of
a recommencement of hostilities between
France and the emperor; on the contrary
the appearance of a speedy reconciliation be
tween the French republicand Auttria fecma
to grieve many; because it thwarts their
great plan for a regeneration of Italy. They
lay, if the emperor refufes to fulfil the con
ditions of the preliminaries, the general in
chief Buonaparte will unquestionably no
longer fuffer the brother of Francis and his
minillers, to conspire in fecurityat Florence,
against the Republicans; we might then
deliver the patriots of Tufcany, and fend
the Grand duke back to Vienna. «
According to the plan of constitution
presented to the Genoese people, the Ligu
rian Republic have two councils; the one
composed of 60 the other of 120 members,
and a Dire&ory composed of 15 members ;
one third of the councils ard of the Direfto
ry go out every year. The 18 th article
fays, " It £the Ligurian Republic] pre
serves and transmits to posterity the senti
ments of gratitude to the French republic,
and declares itfelf the natural ally of all free
people." The pay of the members of the
legislature, is fixed at 10 livres a day, and
that of a Dire&or at 1000 livres per annum.
A citizen mull be 25 years old before he can
be elefted a member of the council 120
and he must have attained the age of 30
years before he can have a feat in the Coun
cil of 60, or be appointed a Diredor.
To the plan of the constitution is annex
ed a detailed account of the population of
the whole Genoese territory, according to
the crtifus of July ift. The number of in
habitants amounted then, to 53,0660. The
Republic is divided into fifteen diftri&s, de
riving their names from rivers, remarkable
mountains &c. Thecentrg diftriftcompris
es Genoa a«d San-Pietro d'Arena. Genoa
alone contained at the epoch of the lateeen
fus, 8j,86i inhabitants. The 34 imperial
fiefs, which contain 106 pariihes, and above
100,000 inhabitants have, since that time
been united with the Ligurian Republic
under the name of " the Ligurian Alps,"
lo that the whole population mud now a
mount to about 650,000 fouls. After all,
there is little probability that the Ligurian
Republic will remain a diftinft slate. Citi
zen Ruggiero has been sent to Milan, to
consult with the Dire&ory of the Cisalpine
Republic, upon the most effectual means to
rcftore to Italy its prilUae glory ?md prospe
rity, and it is believed that on his return the
union with the Cisalpine Republic will be
proposed to the Ligurian people.
EDINBURGH, Sept, iff.
At the assizes of A rough, we hear, ios pri
fodcrs were found guilty, before Lord Yelver
ton, and the hon. justice Chamberhine, twenty
of whom received sentence of death, and tight
were executed accordingly on Saturday fe'en
sight.
Capt. St. Lcger was there tried for tre-ifon
ind embezzling powder belonging to liia Majef
tv. He was found cuihy of the latter charge,
andfentenced ts transportation for life.
LISLE, Sept. 11.
The newt of the return of Lord Malmeibury,
which I announced to you yefteraay, is unfor
tunately confirmed. The French Legation re
mains here ; it appears as if they waited the
return of Lord Malmelbury, or at least the ar
ri. al of :• frefh embaiTy from Britain. The
Br tifli Lord retains his lodgings for §fuen days.
Will he return ? God grant it'.
The proofs of all the plots cis the Interior and
Exterior are now about being brought to light.
A British agent has been arrested at Calais. °l-)e
was the bearer of the most important corres
pondence, and his letters throw the greatest
light on the extent of, and the aflors in, the
conspiracy. In these, Lord Malmelbury, sent
to us by the iufamius Pitt, is completely un
malked. War,eternal warto litt and his gov
ernment ! Attention to his diplomatic' spies !
ahd above all, attention to the Courts of Naples
and Turin I Journal des llommes Librcs*
Relative to the hopes of Peace, the following
observations a> e made by the Journaldes Ccwi
pagnes et des Arniees—
" Frenchmen ! never forget that it is Britain
alone which diredta the continental powers in
their wars against you. Ilow can vou imagine
that Austria will make a separate peace ? Are
you ignorant of that power being always openly
or secretly in the pay of Great-Britain ? Are
you ignorant that the Emperor, his miniflry,
and all his court, are fade led, bridled, mounted
and whipped alone by Pitt ? What is the wiih
ot the British government ? To keep theFrcnch
from their island. They urgt the Austrian
hordes againit us ; they pour emigrants and
priests on ourcoaftsj they murder the poor ca
tholics in Ireland, because they are patriots and
revolutionilts ; and they inundate us with re
frailory pricfls.beeau'e they are counter-rcvo
luticnifts arid royalifis. Frenchmen ! make a
last effort to avenge humanity j displace Mr.
Pitt, and realize the hopes of Europe, so long
wearied cf Britifli infol.nee ! The foul of the
coalition is in London; our enemies are there
difpeife them, and found the Irith, the Scottilh
and the Engiiftj republics, while our armies of
the north eltabhfh the Rhine Germanic republic.
Let peace with every refrailory government be
made in Buonaparte's manner.
The anniversary of the foundation of the
Republic wasselebrated on the ill Vendemair'e,
(21ft September) with much pomp. "The
tete of the Republic," fays one of the journals,
" was very brilliant and celebrated in a manner
worthy of its objedi. ' The concourfc of pto.
pie was immense, the cry oflong live the repi ' ~
Ar civic fnnjrs, the tn live'y effufi.ins of py,
r.V tended to prove that the French people knew
the price of the libetty that they have acquired,
and of which they are now determined not tn
be again robbed." ' ,
PARIS, Sept. 29•
Wc are, aflured that Buonaparte has written
to Count Potockie, ci-devant ambafT.'dor of Po
land to Conflantinoplt, to reqjeft the Marlhils
of the D'ft of 179 r, to render themselves at Mi
lan, with the Utmtft speed , and likewise the
principal members of that diet. Even befori*
this letter of Gen. Buonaparte's, a rwmber of
Poles who took principal part» in theinfurreiftion
in Poland, paiTed by the way of Paris, into Italy.
Such is the fact. The quiflions which arise
cut of it are these.
It it alked in what light the powers who have
divided Poland will look upon this flocking of
the Poles to Buonaparte ; and what part Francs
will take therein Whether any question arose
concerning Poland in the conference at Monte
bello ? Whether Prussia agrees with France in
this biifinef- ? and whether P?',,! ift, who,in the
beginning of lvs reign, seated a number of
Poles with great tenderness, has not thereby
evinced intentions opposite to those of Cathe
rine, and a wish io acquire fame by making re
paration for the cruel injuft'ee of his mother ?
Whtlft these questions agitate the nvnd3 of
our Politicians, the infnrgent Poles in Gallicia
and Transylvania, daily display an incraafing
aflivity, wh eh causes tl e utmost uneasiness to
Austria. They have taken port on themcuntain
Krapacs to the numb, r of (> or 7,000, and divi
ded ; nto squadrons of from :to 3CO men ; they
ravage and hurl vengeance upon the pofTefficns
of the ufu'-nfr* of their country.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, November 27.
Mr. Bartlett, from MafTachufetts (in
the place of Mr. Bradbury who resigned)
appeared, and took his oath, and feat.
The following members appeared to day
for the firft time, viz. Meflrs. Parker and
Nicholas from Virginia, Mr. Blount, from
North Carolina, Mr. Dennis, from Mary
land, Mr. Brookes, from- New-York, and
Mr. Sewall, from Maflachufetts.
Mr. Dwight Foster, from the com
mittee of claims, presented a report, which
stated that the committee having examined
the files and journals of the second session
of the fourth congress, found sundry peti
tions.and memorials referred to the commit
tee of claims, which, for want of time, had
not been reported upon ; and that some of
the petitioners being now attending to leatn
the ifTue of their applications, they propo
sed a resolution for the adoptionof the house
to the following effeft :
" Resolved, that all claims which, during
the~ second session of the fourth congress re
ferred to the committee of claims, and not
by them reported upon, be and the fame are
hereby referred to the committee of claims,
to be by them reported upon agreesbly to
the rules of the house."—Agreed.
The Speaker observed, that there had
been an order made last week contrary to the
rules of the house, by committing a bill to
a committee of the whtAe, which had orig
inated in a former session, without introdu
cing it ii) the way dire&ed by the rules. It"
would be necefTary, therefore, to discharge
the committee from tffe committal.
Mr.LiviHGSTOn accordingly moved that
the comnriittee of the whole to whom was re
ferred the bill relative to refugees from Can
ada and Nova Scotia, be dilchargcd from
the consideration.—Agreed.
Mr. Williams then moved that a com
mittee be appointed to prepare and bring in
a bill for that purpose.—Agreed, and a com
mittee of three appointed.
Mr. W. Claiborne presented a petition
fronr Stephen Cantrell, of the state of Ten
neflee, praying for compenfatiwn for milita
ry service, rendered to the United States,
in an expedition against the Cherokee In
dians in the year 1795—Referred to the Se
cretaty of War.
Mr. Harper moved, that as the printed
papers relative to the claims of Henry Hill,
had only been laid upon their table this
morning, and as they were of some impor
tance, that the fubjeft (made the order for
to-day) should be postponed till Wednesday.
Mr. Williams said there was no occa
fron for this motion, as if the fubjeA was
not calVdup, it would lie .over of course.
Mr. Dwight Foster moved that the
report of the committee of claims on the pe
tition of Samuel Abbott, and others, be re
ferred to a committee of the whole to-mor
row.—Agrefcd.
Mr. Livingston observed, at thebegin
ning of the firft session of last congress, a
committee wss appointed to prepare and re
port {landing rules for the regulation of the
house. He moved thatfuch a committee be
now appointed.
Mr. Harper thought, on consideration,
the gentlemau would find this motion to be
unnecefiary. They had been in the habit,
it was true, of heretofore appointing a com
mittee to report a new set of rules ; but he
believed itVould be allowed that the ufeful
nefs of rules depended in some degree upon
their permanency. He thought they were
changed too often, without good reason,
which produeed an uncertainty in the con
dufting of business. He saw no inconve
nience which would attend the adoption of
the present rules; he thoughtthem fuffieient;
and if any gentleman wished to introduce
any new rule, or to change an old one, he
might do it, by way of motion.
Mr. Livingston said the usual courlc
was to appoint a committee to report a set
of rules ; and in the mean time, the old ones
were declared binding. With refpeft to the
present rules,he had difcoveredfeveral incon
veniences. He would mention one, which
was that requiring all bills to be introduced
in the fame way, though they had underg®nc
discussion at a former session, the inconve
nience of which had just been seen, and
which he thought a dilatory practice. ihe
idea of the gentleman from S. Carolina that
they ought not to change their rules, hedid
not think deserved all the weight which, he
gave it. Every house, by the constitution,
to be the judge of its own rules, and
tiie adopting; of those of.a former house was |
merely a temporary expedient. If the house, i
however, should not think proper to go into
a revision of the old rules, he should move
such alterations in them as appeared to him
necefiary. !
Mr. Harped replied, if the inconveni
ence which had been mentioned had exist
ence, it might be removed by a particular
motion ; but he was doubtkil whether the
thing complained of was an inconvenience.
He believed they were seldom too flow in
passing laws ; the contrary was more fre
quently the cafe. The more formalities
required, and the greater number of afpedts
in which a law was seen, the more likely it
would be to be good. If a gentleman
wifhirig to introduce a bill, had drawn it up
well; he would have no difficulty in perfuad-1
ing a committee to report it ; if not it was
better that it should be amended before its
iutroduftion. He believed, therefore, that •
they had better go on in their usual way,
and avoid innovation.
Mr. Gallatin said, as this motion was
in conformity to the ccmftant praftice of the
house, he could not fee with what proprie
ty it could be called an innovation.
Mr. SiTGRF.AVF.s believed the rules of
the lafl house were already the rules of this,
by a resolution of last feflion.
The motion was put and negatived 37
to 32.
Mr. W: lliams said, it was generally al
lowed that the present militia laws were not
only very expensive in their execution, but
very inadequate in their effefts. The fub
jeft had before been under consideration ;
but, for want of time, was faffed over. He
tbereforepropofeda resolution to the follow
ing effedfc :
" Resolved that a committee be appoint
ed to report whether any and what emend- ;
menu are necefiary to the aft providing an 1
uniform militia system throughout the Unit- \
ed States."—Agreed and a committee of
five appointed.
Mr. Otis, frofiff the committe appointed
to draft an address in answer to the speech
of the President of the United States, re
ported the following, which was twice read,
and referied to a committee of the whole for
to-morrow :
SIR,
WHILE our sympathy is excited by the
recent fufferings of the citizens of Philadel
phia, we participate in the fatisfa&ion which
yon arc plcafed to express, that the dura
tion «.f the late calamity was so limited as to
render unnecefTary the expense and inconve
nience that would have been incident to the
convention of Congress in another place :
And we shall readily attend to every ufeful
amendment of the law which contemplates
the event of contagious sickness at the feat
of government.
In lamenting the increase of the injuries
offered to the persons and property of our
citizens at sea, we gratefully acknowledge
the continuance of interior tranquillity, and
the attendant blessings of which you remind
us, as alleviations of these fatal effe&s of in
justice and violence.
Whatever may be the result of the mission
to the French republic, year early and uni
form attachment to the interests of our
country —your important services in the
struggle for its independence—and your un
ceasing exertions for its welfare—afford no
room to doubt of the sincerity of your ef
forts to condudt the negociation to a fuc
cefsful conclusion, on -such terms as may be
compatible with the fafety, honour and in
ter?!! of the United State*. We have also
a firm reliance upon the energy and una
nimity of the people of these States, in the
assertion of their rights, and ia the determi
nation to exert, upon all proper occasions,
their ample refourees in providing for the
national defence.
The importance of commerce, and its be
neficial influence upon agriculture, arts, and
manufactures, have been verified in the
growth and profj«.'r(ty of our country. It
is efTcntially connefted with the other great
interests of the community. They must
flourifh and decline together ; and while the
extension of our navigation and trade, natu
rally excites the jealousy, aud tempts the a
varice of other nations, we are firmly per
suaded, that the numerous and deserving
class of citizens engaged in these pursuits,
and dependent on them for their subsistence,
has a strong and indifpuUble claim to our
support and protf&ion.
The delay of the Spanish officers to ful
fil the treaty eliding with his catholic ma
jesty, is a source of deep regret —We learn,
however, with fatisfaftion, that you still in
dulge hopes of removing the obje&ions
which have been made to its execution, and
that you have continued in readiness to re
ceive the posts. Disposed to perfotm with
fidelity, our national engagements, we shall
insist upon the fame justice from others,
which we exercise towards them.
Our abhorrence cannot be too strongly
exprefTed, of the intrigues of foreign agents,
to alienate the affeftions of the Indian na
tions, and to rouse them, to a&s of hostility
again ft the United States. No means in
our power, shall be omitted, of providing
for the suppression of such cruel pra&ices,
and for the adequate punishment of their a
trocious authors.
Upon the other interesting futjedis notic
ed in your address, we shall bestow the re
quisite attention. To preserve inviolate the
public faith, by providing for the due exe
cution of our treaties; to indemnify those
who may have just claims to retribution
upon the United States, for expencesincurr
ed in defending the property, and>relieving
the necessities of our unfortunate fellow-ci
tizens; to guard against the laws intended
to secure advantages to the navigation of
our own vessels ; and especially, to prevent,
by all possible means, an unnecefTary accu
mulation of the public debt, are duties
which we shall endeavour to keep in view,
and discharge with afiidnity.
We with great, anxiety, the lin
gular and portentous iituationof the princi
pal powers of Europe. It was devoutly to
be wiflied, that the United States, remote
from the seat-os war am! difeordj unambi
tious of conqntft ; re?fpe&ing the fights of
other nations; and desirous, merely, to a
vail themfelvcs of their natural refonrces,
might be permitted t» brhold the feertes
which desolate that quarter of the globe,
with only those sympathetic ertiotions which
arc natural tothclovers of Jieact, & friends of
thehuman race. But we are led by events to
associate with these feelings a sense of the
dangers which menace our. security and
peace. We rely upon the aflurances of a
zealoiu and hearty concurrence in such mea
sures as may be necefTary to avert these dan
gers; and nothing (m our part (hall be want
ing to repel them which the honour fafety
and prosperity of our \pqimtry: rtiay require.
Mr. Harper f«id»->ithat in pursuance of
the notice which he hari given,- he now rose
to move a refoltition to the following effe£t:
" Resolved, that a committee be appoint
ed to prepare and'report a bill providing an
uniform system of bankruptcy throughout
the United Staces."
Mr. H. added that it was unnecefiary, he
supposed, to enlarge upon the uftftilnefs of i
such a law. That the passing of it would !
be attended witjj difficulties, he was ready '
to allow ; but as these could only be pro
perly judged of when the bill was reported,
he trusted no objs&ion would be made to
the appointment of the proposed commit-I
tee.
Mr. Co it would have no objection to a- i
greeing to the resolution, if the mover would
consent to a small alteration in its form.
He himfelf was not convinced that such a j
law would be of public advantage He ;
wished, therefore, that the committee should ;
be appointed "to enquiry whether such a
law be expedient."
Mr. Harper said, if it was the intention
of the gentleman to transfer the power of!
judging of the expediency'of the measure i
from the House to a f<?le£t committe, he j
should certainly objeft to it. He believed
the resolution would be best in its present
form.
Mr. Livingston said there were two
courses to be taken in the introduftion of
bills. The gentleman from South Carolina
had chosen that which diredted the appoint
ment of a committee to report a bill. He
might have adopted the mode proposed by
the gentleman from Conne&icut ; but there
could be no qnfiftion as to the propriety of
the present motion.
Mr. Baldwin observed that the way in
which the gentleman from Connefticut
might obtain his end would be by moving to
commit the motion.
Mr. Coit accordingly moved that the
motion be committed.
Mr. Baldwin added, that the objeftions
to t*his mode of proceeding, which might
be urged in ordinary cases, were not appli
cable in this, because the committee ap
pointed would fee the several solemn deci
sions which had heretofore been had on this
fubjeft, and would calculate whether it
would be worth their wlvrl# to go over the
Dune ground which had heretofore been
trodden with so little success. If be recol
lected right, the late Cblleague of tht pre
sent mover in the business, introduced the
measure in the firft feflion of Congress under
the present government; but it was attend
ed with so many difficulties, th/M the gen
tleman himfelf was discouraged from procee
ding with it. Almost every Congress fmce
had the fnbjeft before them. He believed
he had not less than five or fix bills which
had gone out the fame course. Our conn
try, he said, was so extensive, and our in
terests so various, that no system of bank
ruptcy, he believed, could be formed to suit
all its parts. If, indeed, the eommittee,
after revising the several bills heretofore re
jected, could fuggett any new provisions
which might appear to obviate former ob
jedtions ; or if there (hould appear to them
to be any new circumstances in the present
situation of the country, which (hould even
call for the law with its former deficienc.es,
they will of course report a bill. If the
contrary (hould be the course, they will re
port it as their opinion.
The motion was agreed to, and a com
mittee of five was appointed, viz. Messrs.
Harper, Coit, Nicholas, Sitgreaves and
Baldwin, u ■
Mr. Rutledge presented the petition of
Ann Gray, an aged widow, who had loft
her huiband and fan in the revolutionary
war, prsying for relief. Referred to the
Committee of Claims. Adjourned.
By this day's Mail.
NEW YORK, Nov. 27.
A report circulates freely i« the city, that
a vcffel in a (hort pafTage from Hamburg,
going into the harbaur of Boflon, has been
(poke with by a captain of a veflel arrived at
this port, from the Bay of Chaleur,. who
learned from the Hamburg captain tbat the
emperor os-Russia had engaged to fnrnifh
180,000 men to the emperor <»f Germany.
We give it as a mere report, which this days
mail nmft confirm or eontradfft.
In the accounts frsm the Upper Rhine
.of the 12th of September, we observe that
the circle of Suabia, as well as the eleftor of
. Franconia and the upper Rhine had applied
. i to the emperor of Russia for bis mediation in
the approaching peace to be n-egociated for
. ; the Empire : and that the elector of Mentz
; had proposed that the whole empire (hould
, 1 apply to him for his co-operation to main
■ tain the integrity of the empire, and to pro
■ cure a Constitutional Peace.
Tallien is mentioned in the French paperi
i : as being dangerously ill of a malignant fever,
: i Noel, the French minister in Holland ii
, > said to have been recalled. His " conftitM.
tion," we certainly know ; did not fuil
1 1 with the climate of that country. Charity
for his feelings may have therefore di&atec
■ this recall.
The defertien of the troops fiom the ar
. ' my of the Sambre and Meufe is dated undei
, 1 Paris dates of 23d Sept. to have been v« n
confideraWe. The inspector general of the' j
p.rmy of the North had been called ifrom )
Holland to put a flop to that mifchief. t
i
%i)t <3asette* t
PHILADELPHIA, \
TUESDAY f.VENING, NOVEMBER 28. - '
' =' . ■* J
DONATIONS r
Received by the Commiffioriers, appointed
to relieve the diftreifed citizens of Fhila- -
delphia and Suburbs. t
Dolls. Cts. 1
From John Young, Attorney J
at Law at Greenfburg, receiv- (
ed by the hands of Nicholas '.
Collin, ' 39
From Dromore Town(hip, j
Lancaster county, by the hands <
of Philip collected by t
col. James Morrifon and for- j
warded by Adam Rugart. 46 13 t
From Earl township, Lancaller county, j
3 barrejs and onebag of wheat, ryeand buck
wheat flour. , j
From Lancaster township, additional, by i
Andrew GrasPs waggon forwarded by Paul j J
Zantzinger, 7 barrels of flour. i <
From Earl township, Lancaster couiity,
additional, by Michael Kiiifey s waggon .
forwarded by Frederick Seeger, 3 barrels j
and 3-4 of wheat, rye and buckwheat flour. !_/
From Strafburg township, Lancaster coun
ty, 2,600 of rye and buckwheat flour in
bags, forwarded by Paul Zantzinger. <
From Sumpter township, Lancaster coun
ty, forwarded by Edward Hand, 28 barrels
of wheat and rye flour.;
From Earl township, forwarded by Fre
derick Seeger, 6 ban els of flour.
From Levi Hollingfworth and Son, for
warded by Vincent Stubbs and a few other
well disposed inhabitants of Little Britain
township, Lancaster county, 7 barrels of
flour.
Edward Garrigues, Secretary.
A melancholy narative tppears in thelrifh pa
pers of the difafteri of the American (hip Two
Sifters, of Rhode-Ifluid, bound for Briftoi, off
Bantry Bay, in Anguft lad On appearance of
distress, she wa» boarded by some people from the
land—they found her mizen mast shivered to piec
es, her main mast overboard, hanging astern, and
her fore topnsafk gone by the cap—only one living
man was found in the wreck, who informed that
the ftiip had been ftrock by lightning, and that
there were fix men on the main topsail yard when
the mainmast went over the fide, all of who-n
were loft, together with the master of the veflel,
who was canted overboard—ftven men were
burnt to a coal, and the mate dead ; the (hip had
four feet water in her hold when boarded—wai
from the Bay of Honduras, with oil, whale bone,
logwood and Hiahogany ; the captain's name Gil
bert ; owner Mr. Mozely of Rhode Island—the
people of the coast hauled the vefTcl up on the
beach ; the bottom appeared to be in tolerable con
dition ; b«t mailt, spars, fails, &c. worth nothing.
The present war has provefl this great and eter
nal truth—hat though hordes of radians may eon
fpire againfl principles, they cannot destroy them.
No v men may beidefli'oyed, for tbe human fr* lllc
is perifhablc and mortal, but principles cannot be
killed, they hold iirLlieli career, firm amidst the
rage of pcrfecution and the (laughter of war ; they
gather strength a» they advance, and live in vigor
and in health long after thecarcafes of the reptiles
that conspired aga nil them are rot'en.
GAZETTE MARINE. LIST.
PORT OE PHILADELPHIA.
CLEARED.
Ship Brothers, Heuderfon, Amsterdam
Brig Sally, Brown, Norfolk
Captain Stevenson of the Favorite Pac
ket, 12 days from Charleston, left there the
brig Ruby, Church, to fail next day, and
brig Maria, Sherer, do. in 5 days, both for
this port.
Neiu-Tsrk, Nov. 27.
Arrived. days.
Ship Aurora, O'Connor, Jamaica 24
Orange, Stewart, - Amsterdam 57
Brig Dean, Schermerhorti, Savannah
Sehr. Americana, Bell, Wilmihgton 11
Bojlon, November 20.
Arrived, brig Sally Smith Liverpool 39
days. Left there Molly, M'Doway, Virginia;
Minerva, Davies, do , Jane, Kennedy, Maf
fachuft Its ; Elizabeth, Webb, Savannah ;
Sally, Webber, for Savannah, to fail in a week;
Jani, Barron, for Norfolk, Minerva, Davies
for Boflott, in IJ days.
Arrived brig George and Harriot, Hill,
Lijbon, 67 days. Sailed before the New-
Adventure, arrived here on the 12th injl. Sept.
io, was boarded by -a French Corvette, called
the Fortune, Cafcow, of Brejl, the capt. was
taken on board with his papers, but was Jhortly
after dismissed. 03. 13, lat. 46, long. 37,
spoke fchr. Hawk, Terry, 3 o days from Rot
terdam for Marblehead, had sprung her boiu
fprit in three places. Nov. 13, spoke fchr,
Columbus, Smith, from Wifcajfett, bound to
Santa Cruz, 53 leagues from land.
Arrived,/hip Jane, Ingles, Amjlerdam, 75
days Left there, September 5> brig ,Maf
fey, Bojlon ; ships Fox, Lincoln, Charlejlon ;
Hebe, Gardner, Baltimore ; Or -ge, Hurd ;
york ; Columbia, —; brig —, Dominick, of
Philadelphia. Sailed in co. with ships Aurora,
' Brown ; Harmony, Earl, of Charlejlon ; brig
Peggy, Adams ofNewTorlt ; fchr. Nancy,
Fletcher, of Bojlon. Stfice arrived—Ships
■ Rose, Hill, New-yerk, and America, Aben
ton, oj Providence, failed thret days before capt.
/.—The brig Ruthy, Simmons, of Bojlon, ar
. rived two days previous to capt. I.'s failing.
. Off Dover, spoke It ip Lexington, 42 days from
Alexandra, bound to Rotterdam. Nov. 13,
1 20 leogues to the southward of Agamenttcus,
, spoke flip Fame, 3 days from Portland bound
i to Martin'ico.
Arrived brig Lucy, Grant, of Oringtan, 41
t days from \Br Jlol. Left there, Jbip Philadel
r phia, Bliss, of do. jujl arrived from London.
1 The Jbip Union, Hilton, of N. Tork faded in
co. with the Licy,for Charlejlon, 03. 12,
-in lat. ling. 24, was boarded by a Frinc.'i
r privateer, called the Flying-F'Jh, from Btejl,
r w ho,after putting 6 Englijh prisoners on board,
I
V. ' " t
uuJ idling away, fans ccrcmonic, a part nj
his cabin Jlores and other articles, [ujj'ered htm
to depart. 03. I "J, in a gale, car> led awai
hts maintoprr\ajl. Oct. 18, was again over
hauled by a French privateer, and after flriu
examination, allowed to proceed. Same d:")
sprang his main-mast. Nov. 5, lat. 44, on iht
Banit, was fired at by a Jbip under American
colours, hailed andpajfed. Nod. 12, [poke a
schooner of Bojlon, capt. Rider, with 500!
quintals Jifh.
Brig Mary, Grant, of New-Tori, from
Amjlerdam, 41 days left there 23d Sept. Left
there, brig Ruthy, Sinicnds, of Bojlon ; Jhip
Niagara, Armour, New-Tori ; brig Grace,
Wills, Philadelphia. Sailed in co. Jhip Hebe
Gardner, Baltimore ; Orange, Stewart, N Cul
Tori , capt. Macey, for do. Independence t
1 aber, do. Columbia, for Philad. Leedt
Packet, Bunee, Charleflon; capt. Chaee,fof
Guadaloupe ; capt. Smith fordo, brig Fame ;
IVilliams, Batavia ; Fox Lincoln, Surrinam.
Left at the Tend, the Lovely Lajs, Dominicl
to failfirjl wind for Bojlon Boarded by several
Britijbtnen or war, and treated politely.
Arrived Jhip Mercury, Cutis, so days
from Hamburgh. In lat. 50, long. 34, wns
boarded by a Frenth privateer of 18 gunst
1 from Bourdeaux, treated with politeness ; lat.
j 44, long 44, 20, fpoie the brig Commerce,
| Toung, 28 days out from Liverpool, bound to
I N. Carolina ( on the Banks of Newfoundland
1 fpoie brig Abigail, Maiins 40 dgys from Bil
\fajl, hound to Philadelphi a with pajfengers.
I A letter from Bourdeaux mentions, the
John, Scott, from hence for^London, Onptured
after a detention offeveral Months, had beeti
acquited, allowed damages and failed.
Baltimore, November 25.
CLEARED.
Schr. Experiment, Bslden, W. Indies '
Aurora, Foster. do.
Kitty & Hannah, Barber, Annapolis
Accounts from the weftvvard fay, that
6,c00 French troops have aftually arrived
at New Orleans.
wwraMWMHiiimi , nP jmiij l jwrxvmtSß
To be fold at the Merchant'? Cof
fee-Houfe,
ON the tenth day of December next, at 7 o'"
clock in the evening, one certain bond or
obligation dated July 16, 179J, signed by Johm
Love ot Alexandria for Hmfcif, Jefiah Watson
and Samuel Love for £6 no Virginia currency,
payable on the 31ft of Oflober lalt paft,to Stock
ley Doiielfon or his assigns—which Bond the
said Donelfon afiigned to James Grant, under
whose power of attorney this sale will be made.
For further particulars apply to the fubferibers.
FOOTMAN and Co. Aaflioneers.
Nov. 48.
James C. & Samuel W. Filher,
AT THE:R STORE,
No. 13, corner of Arch and Front flrects,
HAfE FOR SALE,
Cotton and worsted Hosiery in trunks, a(Torted
A few bales red, white, and yellow Flannels
Ditto futt romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Puljkat silk ditto
Ditto Ponaicherry and Madrafs ditto
Ditto Gurraha . ' """"
Cpng»l f«ladv 1 aftcties
4000 piccss Nankeens, and
Few chests best Hyson Tea
Alfo —is©o boxes bell London Window Glass,
from 8 by 6, to 19 by 14 — 15 Glaf»
Ware, assorted, which they will dispose of cheaper
than any in the city.
November 28. 3awtf
Imported (via New York) on the
ship Hero, fromjMadras and Calcutta, and i'er
fali by the fubferiber, at No. 61, Chefnut street,
between Second and Third Streets, the follow
ing articles .
M^ba-'agonies Charconna Dorens
Chintz and Calicoes Dacca worked muslins
Giliis Roma!* Bandannoes
Nil las 3c Penfiafoes Chafia Romals
Blue cloth Hair ribbon
Mull Mullhankcrchiefs Palempores
Patna do. Banare* Opium
Lefler Cardimum Seeds.
Samud Wilcox•
november tuths4w
Wanted> by a Gentleman in Virginia,
A discreet, sensible Matron,
aged about 45 or 50 years, qualified to teach
young boys Wrin'ng, Arithmetic, History and
Geography—Also, toa&in the capacity ofHoufe
Keeper—For furthtr information app'y to the
Printer. Nov. 28—diw
1 tor Amsterdam,
: e d W A*R D,
J arnes Wiekham, Majler,
' "IT'XWLCTED to fail in a few ■j. *, having two
Jl_i thirds of her cargo already engaged,and near,
ly on board. For Freight or Pafiage, apply to
' the Mailer on board, at Hamilton's wharf, or to
John Donnddfon,
j ' No. 12, Walnut-ftrcet.
nnvmber 28. dßt
, At OEllers's Room,
, On WEDNESDAY EVENING, Nov 29,
Meflrs. CHALMERS WILLIAMSON,
Will present the citizens with a new species of
entertainment, called
The Tablet,
Or, JUST IN TIME.
; Reading!, Recitatisns, and Songs, in 3 parts.
. PAU.T I.
Overture —Grand Piano Forte, Mr. Carr.
' The Hermit, serious reading, Mr. C halmcrs.
» Song—The Tar of all Weathers, Mr. Wit'iamfon.
Fortuneand Folly recitation, Mr. Chalmers.
f Song On that lone bank where Lubin died, Mr.
Williimfoß.
' 1W «•
s Sonata —Piano Forte, Mr. Carr.
' Hypochondriac ; or, the Cobler, ac. m ; = tale ;
s .1, Mr. «halmer».
So?! ;_j a cty and the Co-, Mr. WiUJamfog.
Johnny Gilpin, a cociic tale, Mr. Chalmers.
S 0 n 2 A Sailor's I.ifc at Sea, Mr. WilHanifon.
PART Hi.
Pot Pouri —Piano For'c, Mr. Ca. r.
» Three Warning*, *ead;rg, Mr ChaV.nef*.
, Sorg—Th». Caledonian Maid, Mr. WiUiamfon.
Notoriety; or, All for □ Nome, Mr Cfealnjtrs.
j Son"—Nancy ; or, The Sailor's Jouraal, Mr.
" Willi.imfon.
Tom Kir.g, or Monsieur Tonfon, a Conic Tale,
I Mr. Chalmers,
f. Song—The Hobbies, Mr, WiUiamfon.
S5" Price of adni'ffien One Oe.lar.—TicVe's
' to he had at the bar of th>- hotel, t Carr's Muflcal
Repository, a*d at Carey's Eoon-itore, Marttt
' ftrect
h 1 0 b eg i n at h?lf pa!t fix o'clock piecifely.
?, Particular attention willbe puid tokeep the 10 m
/ warm.Canal Lottery —No. IT.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 20th
inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottery, at
Seven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN's Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-street
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
DoHarty where check books are kept lor regider
ing and examining in these, the City of Washing
ton, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa
tir.n wlrcre tickets may be had in most of the Lotte
ries authorifod by law in any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The business of a Broker, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
discounting Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be duly attended to,
by . Wm. BLACKBURN.
November 15. t> §
From Marseilles.
THE CARGO
Of the Swedilh barque Gxiftavus Adolplius,from
Marseilles, consisting of the following articles,
is discharging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
I'ale by the fuiifcribers
BRANDY, well flavored, of 2, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hotheads
Ditto, in cases
Frontigniac Wine, in cases as 3ob6ttles
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in baskets of 6
and li bottles
Capers
Olives
Almonds
Dsy Verdigreafe ,
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) of iB, 30 and 31 inchet
Vafleties
Long and short white Kitl Gloves for Women
Silk Stockings
Handkerchiefs, in imitation of Ma lraft
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Olh'ich Feathers
Ribbons
P.'rfumery
Sfented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
in forts
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN k
ROBERT ANDREWS.
September 27. eotf
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUN G,
No, ?2, Second-flreet, corner of Chefnut-ftrect,
TJ AS now rea'fy for sale, a very large affort
*l ment of Englifi), French, Latin and Greet
JiCHOOL BOOKS. Alfa, such elementary books
1 m Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout tha United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the sixth edition, in one
large t >l. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large 12 mo price I dol- 75 «ts.
. Ditto, common, prije I dol. 50 ctj.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Paftebosrdt.,
sheathing ai»d Hotting Papers; primed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other arrtcles, ef
the best quality, used in the counting house, or
public office
;-s" Catalogues of a mifcellajjeous colleflUn of
BOOKS, with the price of each r.ffixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. OS. 24.—3aw6w
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front Street,
.HAVE FOR SALS,
100 Hog (heads of prime Georgia Tobacco,
~ T.r - -AUAftt
50 Pipes oT BOnrOeaux 6»auHy
io Pipes of old Port Wine-
Oil. 17. N ' inauff
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than my oth«r fh
the City—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From Bby 6t019 by 14,
By the finale Box or Quantify, may be had at lire
store of Lhe Subscribers, cornei of Arch and Front/-
street,
James C. Samuel W. Fither.
Philadelphia, Junet), 1797. Alwmwftf*
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth street, eorner of North alley, No. 54,
HAS FOR SALE,
EXCELLENT red Bourdeaux Wine in cases and
boxes, fix years old
White Graves Wine in cafiu
Tickienburgs
Rufiia Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck
Bag Linen
Hefiians
Diaper and Table Cloth
Empty bags
Common German Cloth
An alfortmentof black eoloured Ribbons
Fine German Laces
About twelve tons Rufiia clean Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in fmallboxes, for family uf<
Window Glass Aug. 29 —nw
Far fele or to be let on groana
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
Houfefquare. This lot it fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick haufes, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-ftrett, between Mulberry and Safiafras '
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward nine:y-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These hiufes
ave the conveni«nce of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very desirable situa
tion for a merchant, flour fa£tor,or others who
may have occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
forcafh. For fiyther information applv to the
printsr.
July 31- m&wtf
This Day is Publiftied, ,
BY Me(T. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, ants 'the
othei Booksellers, oj
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegantly printed on IVuve paper, and Hot"
prefect,
By John Thompfpn,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
clafiiug together their most important provisions,
under the several heads of administration j with
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South Carolina, 1
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
Unitad States. 1
Dedicated to tha People of th« United States. '
N. B. A few Copies printsd on an inferior pa- I
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar. I
February 6 mwf j
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. C. M. De La ORANGE.,
No. no Walnut-street*
" r "|"NFORMS tbofe who wifti to recur to the only
JL means of becoming perfect in the French Lan. i
guage.that he has just opened hi* L.ibrarf, con
lifting of upwards of 1250 volumes, the bell caj
culated to afford either ufeful inftru&ion, or plea
sure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, miy be fcen at every book-feller's
in town.
n. b. All translations from and into the French,
j Engliflj and Spanifli Languages, executed with ac
curacy and dispatch. < eoim nov. 15.
f ~ LAW BOOKS,
' Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. Iff P. RICE, Bookfeilers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
HAVE just received by the Kte arrivals from
Lor%on and Dublin, their spring importa
-1 tron, confiftingof a variety of the latest and most
> approved Law Books, which, added to those alrea
r dy 011 hand, forms the most extensive colle<slion ev
er offered for sale in this country. They the i ofore
f beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their
eonne&icnsin Dubiin, they are enabled to felltrifli
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowest prices. The following are among the latest
, publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports, in Chancery, 1 v*.ls.
P«ake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridge Way's Report*
in the time of Lord Hardwickt; Floyer's Pro&ers
Fra&ice in the Ecclefiafticai Courts ; Barton's
Trcatife on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's Practice of
the Court of Kind's Bench in Personal A&ions, a
parts ccmjS'te ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
00 Uses ; modern Reports, l» vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Ric* «tpe& t« receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
! Durnford and East's Reports, the ad part of Gil-
I bert's I.aw of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
j new publications.
June a 6.
The History of Fennfylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the preli, and will be published,
with all convenient expedition, by ZiCH A-
Riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed propofafs, until the
work i< ready for the fubfcriberi.
July rt. »aw«f
~ THIsrDAY WAS PUBLISHED,
And for sale by THOMAS DO H SON, it the
Stone House, No. 41, south Second street,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPEMD.
Confiftiog of a variety of Mifeellaneous Pieces for
the Inftrodtion and amusement of YOWNG PER
SONS—SixVolumeshandfomely prisitedand bound
ffp in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these piece* »re
such, that the book needs only to be known to he
, universally eflecmed one of the most valuable pub
. locations thit can be put into the hands of young
pcrfons.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea how tu (hoot,
Topour th« freflj iEftrudtion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The gtnerous purpofc in the glowing breast."
Thomson.
August 24. mwf4w
THIS D AY IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DQ.gSON, at the Stone House,
No. 41, south Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
® rt ween fe*ei*l Young Ladit>,nn improving and in
terefling fubjefls.
Trarflated from the Datch of Midsme de Camion
with alterations aad improvements,
Printed tr. fit paper, and neatly itund,
Frite one dollar.
AM IDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales ef extraordinary distress, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of yoaug ladies »o
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real li/i, the proper, becaufa
elegant and natvrml dignity and importance of the Female
iharatler is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
andprefents examples of real aud attainable excel
lence.
The publisher wa* fomuch pleafedwkh the pera
fal, that he was persuaded he (honid do a pleating
service to the community by fending it ki:o circu
lation. Adguft 2> —raw4w
Act laying Duties on Stamped Vellum
Parchment and Paper.
. A FEW copies of the above a& may be had at
he Office of the Sazetteof the United States, No.
r 19, Ghefnut-ftreet. July
Lancaster, Harrijburgb Carlijle,
Shippenjburg and Stmbury
STAGES.
THE public are requested to take notice, that
the partnerihip which b*s far fomerime fnb
fifled between Mathiss Slough of Lancaster, and
William Oeer, is now difTolvcd . but, not as M.
Slough infinMtesto the public without just cause ;
as will mare fully appear by a letter on the fub
jeffc from M. Slough to W. Oeer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necelfary. Any gentleman who wilhes to be
more circu>.Rantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perafal of M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Oeer is not pcrfe&ly juftifiable in attaching him
felf to any other person in the of the
Stagt conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public w.'re pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this business, William Geer, in conjunftion with
Melfrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it'on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch-that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horse*, and every appuMenance to
render the palfage ftfe and commodious, inform
thofa wno wilh to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenfourg. The fare as hitherto
eflabliihcd.
For the further accommodation ol the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arriye at Sun
bury in Northumberland county,every Thursday,
and return from theoce and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that passengers deftihed for
Lancaftcror Philadelphia, may pwceed on Jffon
(lays.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. »;, s 797-
N. B, This Line ef Stages llarte from tht
house of William Ferroc, in Lancafttr, on every
Tuifday and Saturday
ceeding to the westward; and Irom the house of
Mr. S.imutl Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cocftran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadul- j
phia. mwf i
The printers in tbs rtquejled
to insert tbe following ObJer<ua: o>is in their
papers, by which the public zvill be served,
as wll as their obedientfirvant.
B. LIN'QpLN, Supcrintendant of
Ligbt-ttoufet, State of Matjhehufetts.
BY order of the United States, a Light Hutife
flas been ere<sed at the Clay Pontts, on Cape
Cod ; the lamps in which are to be lighted on
the .15th inA. The light tooufe u ereifled on,
I land elevated about 150 feet, which with the e
le vatioti of the Lantern makes the whole heiybth
100 feet above high mark. In 00-derthat
this Light may be diftinguifted from the By/lon
and other Lights en ourcoail, an .Etlipfer is e
reiled, which will revolve around the Lamps
once in Zo seconds so that the will'be near
ly excluded from the eye of th? approaching
mariner about thirty in one revoluti
on of the eclipffs, „,T° render the benevolent
deligns of a,t uxtenfively ufeful as pof
lilile, the Marine Sojeisty in Boston, by a large
Committee from their body, whose views have
been leeonded by others, have taken fueh dil
tauces and bearings as they thongWt neceflary ;
which obfervationr, giving light asd fafety are
added, lor the benefit of all interefled—and are
as follows-
Veflels outward be und, from Boston Light
house, and would wilh to fall in with Cape-Cod
the course is E. S. B. distance 15 leagues, thence
3 leagues to the Light house. When up with
the Light-house and it bears H W 2 leagues dis
tance, you then fleer S S E which will carry
yov. out of the south channel.
Veflels inward bound, and fall in with the
back of Cape-Cod, bring the Light to bear S W
2 leagues distance, then you may fleer WNW
for Boflon Light-House.
K 1 you you would wilh to go into Cape Cod
harbor, you may keep the (hore aboard about
a mile diflaut, where you will have 10 fathoms
water. Th(>re is a bar lies oft" the back of the
Cape, about half a mile from the Ihore.
When up with Hace-point. which is very
bold, and About three leagues to theweftward of
the Lijrht-houfe, and maybe known by a num
ber of filh houses on it, from I to 3 miles to
the southward of Race-point, if what is called
Herring Cove, where you may have good an
choring halt a mile from the (hore, the wind
from E to N N £ in 4 or even 3 fath»m water.
It hound into Cape Cod harbor, your course
from Kace-poirit to Wood end, is S S E 6 miles
distance, bring tke light to bear E by N and
run for it about two miles, you will then be
clear of Wood end—then you mull steer N E
until the light bears E by IJ—then run N W
f«r the harbor, until you have from 4 to 3 i-a
fathoms water, where you have good anchor
ing, the Light then will hear Eby S 1-1 S 5 or
6 miles distance.
In running from the Race point to Wood
End—after you pass the Black Land or Hum
mucks, you will come up with a low fapdy
beach, which forms the harbor ; extending be
tween i and i miles to Wood-end, which is
diflicult to be diflinguifhed in the night—lt is
bold—you will have 15 fathom water
within half a mile of the Ihore.
In beating into Cape-Cod harbor, you must
keep the ealtem (hore aboard, until y«u get in
to 5 fathom water. Stand no farther to the
than to bring the light t« tlear E by S
as there is a longfpitof sand runs off from (he
western (hore, which being very bold, you will
have it fathom water within a lionet throw of
(hore. <<
In cale it blows so hard that you cannot beat
in the harbor, you will have good anchoring
without, 1 from loto 15 fathom water.
VeflVls in Boilon bay and would wiflj to put
away for Cild harbor, must endeavor to
fall in witb the Hart. II in the night, aud you
eannot fee the land, you mud bring the Light
to bear E by N and fun for it until you have
foundings in 14 or 15 fathom water, iien steer
ncrrtli east until the light bears E by S then /un
in N W for the harbor.
At full and change, it
Point at is o'clock and 43 minutes. Vnflcls in
leaving Cape Cod hound to Boston, (hould cal
culate the tide, as the flood sets strong to the
south weft.
JOHNFOSTEK WILLIAMS, ~}Committe
N ATHANIEL GOODWIN, { from the
JOHN CRUFT, . £ Marine
JOHN HILLS. ' ) Society
THOMAS BARNARD, A branch Pilot
for tbe port of Boflon
SOLOMON COOK, ) Residence at Pro-
ELIJAH NICKERSON, 5 ■vmcctonCapcC.od
At a Meeting of the Marine Socuty, held at
Concert Hall, on Tuesday 7th Nov 1797 —the
above Report of its Committee was read and
approved and ordertd to be publilhed.
By order ofibe Society,
THOMAS DENNIE, President.
WILLIAM FURNESS, Scc'ry,
City of Waihington.
S CHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvrmett nf the Federal City.
A magnificent 4welling-iioufe »0,000 dollars,
k caih 30,000, are 50,000
I ditto 15,000 & calk 15,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & r.a(h 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cifn 10,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,00 c ft cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & calk 5,000 10,000
1 ca(h prize of 10,000
1 do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
10 da. 1,000 - • 10,cioc
jo do. 500 - - ie,ooo
00 do. n«o * - 10,000
arjo do. 50 10,000
400 do. 45 - 10,000
1,000 do. 10 - 10,000
15,00 a. do. .10 • 159,000
*<>i739 Prizes.
33,361 Blacks.
50,000 Tickets, at Bight Dollar;, 400,000
N. B. Toi avoui;thofcwhe may take a quan
tity of Ticlras.tht prize of 40,000 dollars will be
flie last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but oni
And approved notes, fecuiing payment in either
monsy or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will
be received for any number not less than 30 tick
ets. •
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
thepriv'ate buildings to be ereited in the City of
Wathingtoo—l'wo beautiful designs are already
leleAed f\>r the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawings it ispropofed toer«?l
twocentreand "ourcorner buildings,as foonaspof
fible after this lottery isfold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ie
the manner described in the Scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Univerffty, 10
biSereaed within the city ° f Waihington.
The real fecnritiesgiven for the paymont of tbe
Brizes, arc held by the Pnifident and two Direift
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
. SAMUEL DLODGiCT.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Feter
Oilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
aud of Richard Walls, Cooper's Ferry. ravff
NOTICE.
THE partHerfhip between John Instone and
James Bacon, under the firm of Inftoneand
Bacon, is this day diflolved by mutual consent.
All persons who indebted to fa d firm are
requeHed to make immediate payment of their
rtipe<s!:ve accounts, to John Skyrin, on Landen
burgt-r's wharf, who is duly authorised to receive
the fame ; and all persons having; any demands a
gaireit the fahl firm, are desired to bring in their
account# to him for fcttlement.
John InJlone,
fames Bacon.
novenber to. eodtf
The Philadelphia, Jhfiun, and "I uc-kcrtun
MAIL STAGE. '
rHE proprietors beg leave to in farm the public.) that
they have ejlablijhed a Stage between Philadelphia,
Atjivn, Batflo, Hampton, Speedwell, and iV4T.' tha Fur
r.ace, Wading River flitting mill, and the town >f Tuck
erton, in New'-Jcrfcy, to go once a week, and arvprovi
ded with good horses, a comfortable carriage, and a care
ful driver, for the conveyance of the mail,paf[tngers, and
goods. The Stare will fart every Tburfday, at IO
o ctock, A. J\A. from JMr. Daniel Cooper s Ferry, and
lodge that night at Joel Bodine's, at Longacoming ; and
tn on Friday, at 6 o'clock, P. J\f. arrive at Caleb E
vans's, itike;per, in Tuckerton, difant from the city 54
miles, (from the Atlantic 6, andfrom the EaJI Grouftng
Plains 7 miles J where are good accommodations for tra
vellers, and where are commodious and fafe pajfige boats
provided to convey pajfagcrs to Capt. IVilliam IVar
rington't house, on Tucker's Jfand, adjoinining the At
lantic, whert are good accommoaations, and a convenient
place to bathe ; the fpotrtfman who wijhes to regale himfelf
with fowling and fjbing, may at this place be highly gra
tified, there being at almofl every season of the ya*r fowl
andfijb in abundance.—-The Stage on its return, Jlarts
from the aforefaid C. Evans's in Tucker tan, every Tues
day, at 6 o'clock, A. M. fprcakfafs at John Bodine's, at
IVading River Bridge, lodge that night at Longacoming,
and at I o'clock, P. M. on Wedncfday, arrive at the
aforefaid Cooper's Ferry. It is presumed that no route of
an equal diflance will be left experftve, or furnijb the tra
veller with a greater variety of amufemcvit, as he will
net only have a p leaf ant fail to the atlantc from Tueker
ton, but have the curinfty of feeing on the road thither a
number of capital furnaces and forges, and one flitting
mill, in complete order, and at work ; gentlemen, who
are oimncrs, or faff on, of etmy of the aforefaid iron works,
are solicited to encourage and support this flage (by wh,ch
they can be so well accommoda edj the continuance of whiei
teill much depend on their aid. The rates of passengers
and baggage are at fulUnvt : For a pajfenger from the
aforefaid Daniel Cooper t Ferry to Tackerton, including
I 4 lb. of baggage, Two Dollars ; for waj pajfengers
per mile, Four Cents—\ $Q lb. of baggage eaual to a pcs
Pojlage of letters, n:wfpapers, will ie
agreeably to law.
N. B. The mail traffics from the Old Ferry.
THOMAS IVARDLE Co.
Tinker ton, Sept. 18. Oft.s. — inwf
"The N orfolk~Mail ST AG E."
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every Tmfiay, Tburfday, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, ia the tr orning ; arrives at Ho
ver the firft day, at SnowhiVthe fecoiul day, at
Northampton Court Houfc the third day, and oo
the morning of the fourth day the passengers find
a fafc and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton feiry,
every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wcdnefday and Friday ; puts up at Snow
Hill the firft night, at Dover the id eight, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is to miles less than on any stage route
between those places.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is mcft excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
paffi nger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
Anguft it. dim, eotf.
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUB LIS HE O,
By ROBERT CAMi'BELL & 00.
No 40 South Second ftrect,
[Price jr Cents]
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the pr'efent War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskink.
May ] s $
STATE TRIALS.
Sold b W. Yoong, Bookseller, No. s*, South Se
coild-ftreet,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial.and acquit
aj of Francis Hopkinfon, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and Jphn Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, 4 general aflortmentof
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the paek
ege, well aflorted, and entitled to the drawback it
axpwted. July 7 *
For Sale,
That •wellknown place, called
Film, «
ON NeOiaminy creek, 18 miles from j?hili
ladelphia, on the New York post road>
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premises are a large two itory stone house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story Hone kit
chen, a large frame liable with a good threfhinp
floor, and lonic out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a molt elegant situation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny to its jun&ion wiih the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jersey shore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Swb^riber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
Vay 24. jjtawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleas
ure and refpeifl, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
ftie has received during four years residence in
Philadelphia; and afiures her friends and the
public, so far from intending ta decline her
school, (he has made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars. —Every branch of ufefu! and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and mailers excelling in their
refpedliveprofeflions. ,
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
Jime ?th, 1797- Jiml'rf
The lituatlan is perfeflly healtky j and made
more agreeabfeby an Cxter.five garden and lot
ofgrrund adjoining the house.
fujl Publifoed,
And to be had of Mcffrs. DoVon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfcllers ia tHe
city .price one dollar, twinty-five cents,in boards.
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMlTii BARTON, m. d.
June jo. «4t
Philadelphia, 03. 13.
THE subscribers inform their friend* and custo
mers in town and country, that their flores are now
ef)cn in the city, and others are daily opening, and
that from the present appearance of the prevailing
difordcr have reason to hope, their friends may
fborfty come to the city with perfeiA faf ty. By
several late arrivals, numbers have received frelk
supplies of GOODS.
Robert Smith & Co. P.' JV. Gallaudet £5" Co.
IJohn pavi) ' Co. Sitgrea-ves & French,
Neiil Iff Smith, George Dobfon,
Wiltberger and Smith, Thomas Ryerfon,
Alex Bifland and Co. T. R. Hardenberg.
Jacob Spe rry and Co. John Smith and Co•
Owen s9* Jina. Jones, Thomas Orr,
Keppele S? Zantzinger, William Barker Co.
Adam Zantzmger,
John Fries, J. Miller, jun. and Co.
Benjamin \I?J. Jefsnfon.
OtSl. 14
POYNTELL's
Paper Hangings Manufactory,
No. 70, Chefnut-ftreet,
IVhere be has for Sale,
AVERY extensive stock, of every colour, and
of the moil approved patterns, suitable for
every part of a house, with great variety of bor
ders to fait.
jIZJO——
A handsome aflortment of the most fafhionaMe
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
Very heft Green and plain Blue,
With Pannel Pipers and a rich variety of Borders.
Neven her 1. eo6t
Will be Landed,
From onboard the ship Adtive, Capt. Blair,from
Hambutjgh,
20 bales white Rufiia clean Hemp
2 calks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth (licet, No. 34.
June 16. i
Imported intheffiip Manchester,
Benjamin Sptewbll, Matter,
From Bourdeaux, and For l'ale by the lubferiber,
No. ji Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy ">
Irifli market claret in cases ( Entitled ta
wine, in do. J Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatreyd.
WHO HA3 FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter ca(ks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4/200 buihels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf-
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before dtfpofed of at private sale)
ODJ Friday, the firlk of December next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Cof
fee House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thoufaud Nine
Hundred and Thirty Nine acres of LAND,
now or late in the County of Walhington, and Com
monwealth of Pennsylvania, and on the waters of
Fresh and Wheeling Creeks and Ten Mile Run.—
These Lands arc fertile and well timbered, and were
patenteed early in 1787, except 3700 acres or therea
bouts, which were patented in 179 a. One fourth
of the pbrchafe money to be paid at the time of sale,
f or t he a credit of one, two and three months,
will be given, on intwefl and good feturity.
Oflobtrr 6. 3awfS
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private fait)
ON Friday, the firt* day of December, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Cotfce
House, in Philadelphia, Twenty Six Thousand se
v3B Hundred and Eighty acres of LAND, in the
State of New-York, between the northern bounds
of Pennsylvania and the?u'quehanna, now, or late,
in the townlhips of Htrndew and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery One foerth *>f tee ptrchafc
money it to be paid at the time of sale ; for the re
sidue a credit of one, two, and three months will be
given, on interest and good security.
O&o&e 6. 3'jwtS
Peale's Museum.
THIS valuable repository of the works of Na
ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the underflandmg, isop.ncd daily, m
usual. It (lands in an tiiry and healihy situation,
and free from the epidemic that at present aiHicU
the city ; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the greatest fafery.
As an Ai.ufement, the (ludy of Nature is the
most rational and plealing : as a Science, the most
sublime and inflruilive. It elevates the mind and
expsnds the heart. They
" Whom Nature's vjotkj can charm, with God hnxfctf
" Hold converse."
Many inter-sting additions have lately been
made to this Mufcum : and the feathered tribe,
containing a variety of the most rare and beautiful
l'ubjefls, is now very advantageously arranged.
Waxen Figures,of Men large as life (some o£thcm
cads from nature) are here drefled in their prep*
habits "nd placed in attitudes characteristic oflheh
refpeflive nations. Here may be fee* the North-
American Savage, and the Savage of South-Ameri
ca—a laboring Chinese, and the Chinese Gentk.
Man —the sooty African, and the Kamtfshadale—
with some Natives of the South Sea Islands. The
immense variety and interesting diversity which
this Museum offers to the view, may be fe#n but
oannot be dcfcribed with full effect.
Price only l-4thof a dollar.
Seyt. iB. , taw
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING bulled for Tome time past in prepara*
tions for removing into his prafent house, haj
been under thcnecefiityof poftponinguntil this day
informing the gentlemen ofthe Ear generally thro'
the United States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for (ale, on
termsthat he trusts will rntitlehim to thelike pre.
freence he has experienced for leveraT years past.
Catalogues, combining the mod varied collee
tion ever imported this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application.
June Mw
Boston Glass Manufactory.
THE citizens of the United States ar» hereby
informed, that the manufacture of Window
G ass is now commenced »t the Glass House in Bos
ton.
It is needless to f;;y any thing of the excellei*
quality of the Boston Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the United States to.be in every rUpc.it
greatly superior to any ever imported from Europe.
It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
may be constantly had by applying to Cuakles F.
Kupfek, at the Glass House.
Orders from the distant States to he addrefTcd ta
Mr. Samuei Gore, Court-ftrcet, Boston.
Boston, Sept 30, 1797 0 4 - lw * w
Mcjrs. Timothy and Maf.n, Charlrjitn ; M,tTrx.
Hodgt and Boy lan, Halifax, A r . C. IhiU't
and O'Connor, Norfsli ; Mr. Elli, Price, Al,xandri„ .
Meffrt. Tundt and Bro-wn, Baltimore ; Air. Hcpio,i
New-Tort .and Mtfri. ffw/fm V Gtuitrb,, H.tr'.
ford ; Mr. Scyttour, Savannah ; ate rey«t(l, J j,r„,
the aU'je ona i-week (t uteii. Tie ttitw.h («///'..
•u-arded tit Editor*