#a f ette of & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1374.] THURSDAT EVENING, FEBRUART 2, 1797. [VCLVUE XI.
SJLE Br AUCTION.
Schooner ORI O N ~j
WILL be fold to the highell bidder, on Tharfday, £e- j
hmary 2, at 7 o'clock in the evening, at the Mer
chants' Coffee-Houfe, in Second Street, 011 two and four -
months' credit, for approved notes with an indorfer.
The Orion it fix teen months eld, btr frame is of the -j
bet of Whits Oak; fce i» a faithful.built veff:l,
ibmely Smlked, and "well found in 'every particular. If
ready to receive a cargo, and can be feut to lea without
any cxpenfo on her hull fails «r rigging. She (lows fix
hundred barrels, has a handsome cabin and steerage, and
a half deck which will flow feventy-five or eighty barrels. _
She is a fact-failing vessel, and has been rwwly caulked, j
graved, painted, aud put in thorough r -pair in every re-
Her Inventory may be seen by applying to mr. Sa
muelSmitu, Shi-'-broker, No. 86 south Frout-fireet, or
te the captain, on board said schooner, laying oppolite
tteff. Wills & wharf, adjoining Chefnut-flreet
wharf --where file at any time may be thoroughly exam,
iaed by those who wifli to purchal'e.
January 30 §
' FOR SALE, (
7 HE SHIP MARY,
JSAMUEL PARKER, Masts*,
hundred tons bnrthen. Apply to j
JOSEPH ANTHONY, k Co. -\
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, (he will Kik s
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above. 3
Odlober 31. ' <1
For Sligo and Killibeg#,
The American Ship Nanct, ]
*3®' Cuthbert Riggs, matter.
Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or paflsjre apply to
William Bell; '
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well assorted
3 Bales Irish Flannels, and 2 box«a Linens
»5 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. RnfTia Mitts,
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, 1796, mwftf
For Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DIANA,
Samusl, Pile, Master,'
©JmEcSSLßurthen 105 47-95 tons register, built in
3fcSS=2oPhiladelphia in the year 1794, of live oak
and red cedar, and was ftieathed 13 months ago, she
has just had a compleat ont-fit, awl may be feat to fca
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin & Co.
JVho have for sale on beard said vrjet,
%•) calks of fiae yellow paint.
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing flatus.
I box ink stands and note presses.
14 bales of fail oanvafs.
Imperial ~)
Hyson, and, TEAS.
Souchong J
40,0*0 paces Nankeen* of tht frrft qa»lky.
19 tpbs Quicksilver.
t chefU Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few ch:.fts Manchester goodswell alTorted 111 C«r
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinete, Dimities, &c.
3 boxes black sewing silk.'
liSo crates Queens ware well alTor&ed.
10 tons Sheet lead.
Nai'.s afl'orted, flat and (harp points.
London Particular, 1 Madeira Wine in pipe*
London Market, > and l«,glh,ad 3 .
New-York Market, ) ' •
> \ 40 pipes and 10 h'iglheads Tenerifle wine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
33s lags Mahogany.
Nov 1
" A CARD.
If Monjieur G H. SShls,
Who left Bordeaux the 20th June lafl, and arrived
1 at Bofien tbuiit the middle of Aaguft, in the schooner
Jane, is in Phibdelphia, he is requelied to call on
Joseph Anthony & Co. No. 5, Chefnut-ftreet, who
will give hiin some information tf importance'
December 24, irqfi- V
6 A L i' PE T R L.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for
sale at No. 25, South Third-street.
November 5.
Washington Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand
two hundred, and fifty dollar*, for the pur pole of cutting
a Canal through the City of Walhington, fro.i th I'o
to mac to theEaltern'Branch Harbour.*
The following i» the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -x Prize of ao,oco dollars, 20,000
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7 lad drawn 7 ' , <OQQ
Tickets, each j
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
30 ditto 400 4>ooo
10 ditto 100 2,000
55. ditto SO 2,750
3750 ditto 12 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, . 26,25®
5850 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
£5" The Cemmiffioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid a(sl for the pun&ual payment ol
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as thr Tickets are fold, of which timelj
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th*
drawing is finilhod, (ball be considered as relinquilhed for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed j NOTLEY YOONG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
Cit of Ws&iogton, Feb. It- i
Red Clover Seed.
Fresh red Clover Seed'of the bell quality, in bags of J
5 buihcls cach
Madeira wine in pipes, fit for immediate life £
Teperifie wine in pipes, hojfheads and quarter calks
Ditto do. of firft qnblity, for the u£c of private
families
Cofleain hogsheads
Jamaica fpiriti
CoaneAicnt fo»p in small boxe»
Window glait and Spaniih ftgari, an-i j
Two tmnks of best patent, plain ana ribbed fiik and
cotton hofierv, for sale bv [.
JOHN CRAIG.
Ffbruarv T" wffSmtf 1
i 1 c
Frejh Garden, Grass and. Flower-Seeds,
Roots, Is'c. &c. t
This day landing from the (hip Eagle, captain Fofdick, /
from London, 8
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE»
Comer of Walnut and ?ccond-ftreets, j
A msfi capital and xxtenfive AJfortmcnt tf r
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS, 1
ROOTS, &c. &c. t
Among which are,
Five kinds Afpa.-agnsl|Threc kind* Cresses <
Four Berecole'Twelve Onion t
Twenty-five Beans) Thirteen Radish 1
Six Beetsj Fifteea Tarnip •
Eleven Brocolij Fifteen Peas
Twenty-fix Cabbage Six Savoy 1
Six Carrot! Four Parsnip 1
Three Cauliflower! Twenty-tLree Melon 1
Five Celery, Twenty-one Lettuce 1
Ten Cucumber
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Marygold Pot Mnrjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerne
Red and white Clover Timothy, icc. See.
With a curious colled ion of the mot elteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the moll extensive ever imported into this city.
The above are frMu a capital Seedfenan in London, and
are warranted frc-ih and good. t
Printed catalogues itiay be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17
Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOIiSON,
No. #5, South Third-street,
Has just reeeived, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, via Lon
don, an assortment of
Scarlet
Drab (Cloaks trimmed with iur and
Purple and ( crawie.
J
Decembet* 15. 5
" ' x? NOTICE.
THE Sales of LANDS of the United States, in the
North-Western Teriitory, heretofore adverrifed
in tjie several p«b!ie papers, will commence this even
ing, at the City Tave*i to be continued from day
to day, 'till the tenth of February next, if not fooncr
January 4 $
In order to comply with contrath, I toili fell, fur
approved bonds, on 3 equal annua, payments,
A Square of LO„TS,
At the upper end of Fiedericklburg, beginning op-'
polite to the lewer corner of Dodlor Wellfard's, 011
Caroiine-flrerr, and mailing up 10 the cress (lreet
leading to Fitzhugh's ferry, and from thence back to
Sophia-street. This fquarelhave laid oft" into 24 Ut3,
27 and an half feet front, and 122 back, 12 On Caro
line-ttreet, and 12 011 Sophia-street. Nine of those
on CaroHne-ftreet I have leafed on an annual ground
rant-os 8 and 10 pounds, to the amount of 74 pounds,
and the vacant lots a purchafet voald enhanee the value
of by bnilding small houses, which will as readily
procure tenants as pols or goards will Martins in the
spring, and yiel-c a greater profit in proportion to
their colt than large buildings. Thofs who incllnc
to porchafe may know the terms by applying to
HENRY FITZHUGH.
, Beli-Air, Dec. 8, 1796. 7thJ.d 4 w
r Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
3 XTOTICE is hereby given, that proposal* will be re-
JL > ccived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
_ until tfic expiration of the firft day of March next en
fuitig, for thefupply of all rations which may he required
for the ul'e of the United States, from the firft day of
r June, 1797, to the thirty-firtl day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the placcs and within the diftriils h(.re
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara ; at
Paefque Ifte; at Sandufky Lake, and 011 candulky
River ; at Detroitat Michiliinackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin, at Piitfburgh ; at Cineinnati; at Fort-Harailton ;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fdrt-Jcfferfon; at Grenville; at
d Picque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
4 Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ;at any pkee below Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
SUuben ; at Fort MalTac ; at any place from Fort MalTae
to the south boundary of the United States on the river
Miflifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If supplies shall be required for any polls or places not
Mentioned in this notice, all such supplies (hall be fur
uiflied at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
posts before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States atnd the Contractor.
The rations to be fupplicd are to confill of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whiskey.
One quart and half a pint of falt.~)
Two quarts of Vinegar, / . , ,
Two pounds of Soap, ( P cr hun<3red ratlons
One pound of Candles, j
The rations are to be furniflsed in Inch quantities, as that
Acre lhall at all times during thel"aid term, be fufiioient
for the consumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, far the term of fix month# in
' advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term of
! at lead three months in advance, i* good a«tf wholesome
provisions, if the fame (hall be required. It is to be unj
" (ierflo-jd, that the Contra&or isto beat the expence and
r rilk of iffuirgthe fapplits to the troops atewch pod, and
that all losses l'ultained by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the troops of the United States, (hall be yaid
for at the price of „ e articles captured or destroyed, on
the depositions of two or naore persons of creditable cha
railers, and the certitioate of a commiflioncd ofiicer, as
certaining the circumllances of the loss, and the amonnt
of the aiticUs foi which compenfaoion shall be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
toetretary oi the i reafury.
PROPOSALS,
Pgr carrying the Mails of rhe United
Statbs, e
On tit following Pofi Roads, "will it ratived until
tbcfirft day.of March next inclujivt '
1. Frum Chjrleftun, S. C. hy Jackfonb.ro' and Coofa
hatchy, to Susannah, twice a week. Receive tfce Mail
at CharUfton errery Tue4day and Friday by 6, P. M. and
<Seliv.ru.. Sferni... nvxt Friday ana Monday, by 8
> > iV* tie Mail atSavahoak ev _
Samrday, by 6, P. M. and Wetinefday by 6, A. M. and
deliver it at Charlcilea the next Tuesday and Friday
by noon.
Fy.tr/,1, for tbit route will In rcMi'ttd by the p*ji-maj!er a!
Savannah. a(
2. From Coofahatchy to Beaufort onee a week— ft
Receive the mail at Co.fahatchy eyery Thofrfday by 6,
p. m. and deliver it at Beaufort by noon on Friday. Jit
turiJjig, leave Beaufjrt every Friday by 3, r. m. and arrive
at Coofakatchy on Saturday by 8, a. m.
Proposals for carrying the mail on this route will be r«-
oeived by the poft-maftcr at Beaufort.
Note I. The Poll-master General may alter the times
for the arrival and departure of the mailt at any time du- el
ring tht continuance of the contract, he previously ftipu- £
lating an adequate cempeafation for any extaa expeace in
that may be octafioned thereby. cl
Note 2. For every hours delay (unavoidable accidents v.
excepted) in arriving after the times prescribed by con
traA, the coatra&or (hall forfeit one dollar, aid if the
delay continue until the departure of any depending mail
an additional forfeiture of five dollars shall be incurred.
Note 3. Should any person making proposals desire an
alteratioa of the tiaics of arrival and departure above fpe- <j
cified, he mud flat* the alteration desired and the price f,
he will carry the mail for with and without such alte- „
ration. ' 1
Note 4. The contraifts arc to be in operation on the
fir ft day of April next and to continue until the 30th of
September ia the year 1800.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Z 3 ojt Alafter General.
General Pod Office, }
Philadelphia, Jan. 13,1797. J <
*vi. 16. d6w. ]
Mas. G RATTAN
RefpeAfully informs her friends, and the public in
general, that on Tuesday the icthday of January,
she propolts opening, at No. 39, North Sixth
flreet,
A Linen and Muslin Warehoufc.
Book Muslins, from 6/3 t» ia/11 per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to 5/8 per yard
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to 10/tG per yard
Fine ColTaes
Tambour'd Book Muslins, from 13/9 to 21/ per yard
India Muslin, from.ll/3 t0 '5/ per yard
Sheeting Muslin
Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 to 6/ per hdkf.
Book muslin Handkerchiefs from j/3 to 1 ofb per hdkf.
Muslin color'd-and border'd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchiefs
Tambaur'4 Cravats from I</8 to n/ll
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, jom 11/3 to 16/3 per yard
Table Clotks
Huekabuck Towelling
W*.n 1;■ n', oVton r — fn T 1i f T'" T
Dimity Irow*' x l * **d i/fll
Men's Silk Hose
Tambovr'd muslin Handkerchiefs from njii to ij/i
Irilh linens for Gentleir en's Shirts, from 3/5 to g/7
And a variety of other articles.
N. B. Orders received for all kinds <>f ready made
. Linen, Senticmen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, &c. &c.
HoufhoM Linen, &c. ixc.
A plain ftirt, made and iriark'd, 3 1-2 dollars.
A full l ufßrd ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 5 dollars.
A fuil ruffled oitto 6 dollars
A plain ftiirt, made and marked, 5 1-2 dollars.
A till ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 1-2.
A plain Ihirt, made and mark'd, 6 1-1 dollars.
A very fine ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Linen included.
January 13. 5
Cheap French China.
THE lVoferibers finding it ianpoffible to fiipply their
* (lore with any more China from France, the prices
being too immoderate in the manufafleries, give n«-
tice that they will fell at prime eolt the regaining
deck on hand, coufifting of
DelTcrt Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
! Separate Cups and Saucers
Groupes and Figures
1 Alabafler Vases
Looking aiaffes, is gilt frames,
Betides India Japin'd Toilet Desks, Chairs, Tables
' nad Quadrille Boxew PASQUIEII & Co.
N®. 91, South Seeond-ftrest.
December sth.
[ The Elephant,
1 Now exhibited, was bought for Ten 1 houfand
1 Dollars.
: He is 3 years old, 6 feet high, growing to 18 feet.
r Me eats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water ; he has drank fame days forty bottles of porter,
1 drawing the corks with his trunk.
* He is perfe&ly inoffenfive; travels loose, at the
rate of five nailes an hour, and is the grcateft curiosity
ever broaglit to this Continent.
He is to be seen 'till the 15th 0/ Janiary, in
Market-street between Third and Fourth-streets, at
a qiarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him—
f after which time the former price of half a dollar wHI
be resumed.
He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather
will permit.'
December
s—■ . *
Brokers Ottice, and
r COMMISSION STORE.
1 No. 63 South Third street, opposite the nalipnal new Bank'
■ QAMUEL M FROUNCES and JOHN VAN REED,
' O have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of
' FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
E Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and
» fell on commiflion every lpecies of llock, notes of hand,
* bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Money procured #n deposits, &c. &c. r all kinds of
r writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch -, accounts udjufted, and books fettled, in the
1 most correfl manfter. Conflant attendance will be given.
" They solicit a share of the public favor ; tliey are detsr
- mined to endeavour to deserve it.
1 N. B. The utmost feerecy observed.
S AMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOtlN VAN REED.
I'hil;.i. "iuguft 27, 1796. m&wtf
Hibernian Society.
Such of the Member." ol this society as are entitled to
Diplopias, are requefUd to as ply for tliehi to
Mr. fiugh M<,lntel, Vice- trsfidmt;
Mr. David Af't-orrijci, Treefer er /
Mr. Robert H< Lounjeihr ;
Mr\ y»lepb Brown ;
Mr. EiwariT Fox j
Or to MATHEW CAKEY, fin.
PMlirt. Jwi. it, t7ff. - mmi't
FOR SALE,
About i,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marfii
and Beech .Creeks, Mifflin county, Penpfylvanu, in
four separate Patent!. For tei rns ot file apply to
i, Wm. Blackburn*
Ne. 64, South Sfcond-lirset
tariuary 16. • mwW
Waftiington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchanged for prires, at the Office, No. 14), Chrfout-
w>here a correA Numerical Book is kept for public
infpe&ion. Also Canal LottaryTickets for sale or ex
changed for prizes diawn n the Washington Lottery, of
which the 54th a fid 55th days returns afe received
The Business of a Broker carried an as usual.
January 13.
All Persons having Demands
Against the Estate of the late '1 hornas Franklin,
deeeafed, ate deflred to bring in their account* for
settlement; and thote indebted to make immediate
payment, to ISRAEL PLEASANTS, E
WALTER FRANK' !N,or [ J, ' xec,, *
SAMUEL R. FRANKLIN, 3 to '*'
January 14th, 1796. eozw
Wants a Situation,
I As a Housekeeper, an Enylith worewa, completely
I qualified in every relpefl to keep a Gentleman's Houle.
I Euquirc of the Printer.
I January 26 *ct
I , Davis's Law Book Store,
I No. 313, HIGH-STREET,
I GEORGE DAVIS announces to his protefiional friends,
I and the Gentlemen <if the Law, generally, through toe
I Union, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arraog*
I ed, and ready for Sale, from a fingleXiolurftc to °n entire h-
J brary, without any advance upon his former eitce<fdij»g km
1 prices, whitfh fortcvcial years pa it have in so dttttnguilhed Tl
1 manner recommended them'to notice.
I Printed Catalogues combining the tftoft exteafive coiltc-
I tion cf the latest English and Irifb Editions ever mi ported
I into this country, are publiihed, and will be deliveied gia;ia
I on application.
I Orders addressed to G. D. in writing t-rom- any dtUaue*
I (hall be punctually attended to.
I A number of TRUNKS for Sale.
J i ALSO, TO BE LET,
I A convenient LOFT, near Market Street
ov.S. tu&fg»
FOR SALE,
| At WKU«l»<iec' Tea. Ware-H n use t
No. 99, North Second Street.
J Imperial r Hyson Skin.
I Hyfau, C Frefli Teas. < Souchong,
J Young Hyson, J (.Bohea
I Dec. 9. 3lawjm,
' I Le Breton,
S UR GEON-DENTIST,
I Pupil of the celebrctad Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the'
I Kin;» and Royal Family of France, member or the
1 College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
I Keeps a complete aflbrtnient of every thing neceflary
to be used forth'e
Preservation of the Mtwth and Teetfi.
I Patent Minoral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
1 Dentrifice in powder ; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
I sweetening the mouth and preserving the teeth—he
I also furnifhes Bruihes and foft Sponges.
1 * He lives in Cliefnut-ftreet, No. 135, above
J Fourth-flreet.
November »6. tt*
r I , — '——— \
8 Twenty Guineas Regard.
I RANAWAY from the fubferiber on the 13d October,
* I a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 21 years
I old ; about 5 feet 8 inches high; had on a mked green
1 coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow .buttons;
I a striped vest ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
I whole boot, much worn. It is probable he may ehange
I his name and dress. He has been aceuftomed to driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for fccliring him so that the fubferiber may get him
:s again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
1 Robins Ghamherlai/te.
. I Eaflon. Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 (miawtf
FOR SALE AT WILLIAM P MUST MAN'S
d No. 15 fotith Fifth-ftrcet,
, 1 Between Market and Chefnut Streets,
f I A Qjaitity of Plain Gold Watches ; Gold eaamel'd &.
" t\. ornamented with pearls *, Silver and metal ditto, by
r > the iSrft makers in London and Paris ; a Time-Piece
Iby Arnold ; plain gold by Mudge ts" Dutton; feveiwl
ie diamond a»d diamond & pearl Ucket', tings, ear-ri»g„,
y &c; about to lb. of Scotch thread j doublo-barrel'd guns,
in cafe, by Mantan ; quantity of plated table, tea, and
Ji night plated eandleltieks, branches, &c 46 volumes of
it I Law-Bosks, ia one lot, meftly reports, folio, scarce and
- valuable boots ; books of Prints ; —amongft which are
II Martyn on Shells, Statue da Rofli, Calmet's Di<S'onnair«
dc Bible, Johnson's Poets, 75 vols. Baflcerville's Addifon,
;r I 4 vols. Kiograpliia Britannica, ©pere de Machiavclii,
Ruins of Balbec, Blair's Chronology, Plinii Hiftorica Na
turalis, Montfaucon's Antiquities, State Trials; Evelyn's
" 1 Silva, Poftlewayte's DiAionary, Rittrattii duomini illuf-
I tri Tofcani, Ouevres de Bayle, Caracoi.
January 31 S
5! For Sale,
3 f I By the Sublicribers —In PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
f Imported by »te Eagle.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
D f Nov. 30
" A Lt. PERSONS
n. j TNDEBTBD to the 1(1:ate of Georo.f Ross, late of Cape
r 1 May, deceased, are requested to make immediate pay
-1 meat to the Subscriber, and those who have any demands
I aeainft said EfatiSj will pliafe call on him fer settlement.
J JAMES YOUNG*, Aimr,
I Swaafen, below South Street.
Janutry 30New Theatre.
JBr Desire,
On FRIDAYEVENING, February 3,
Will be presented,
A TRAGEDY, called '
Venice Prefer Vd;
Or, A Plot Discovered.
Duke of Venice, Mr. Warrell
Mr. barren
Bedamar, Mr. Fox
F' e Te, Mr. Cooper
J a ® er » Mr. Moreton
Rennault, Mr. WignM
Spinofa, Mr. Dnrley, juil.
Elliot. Mr. Mitchell
Theodore, Mr. Blijfett
Officer, Mr. J. Warrell
Belvidera, Mrs. Merry
End of the tragedy, a new Ballet Dance, composed
by Mr. Byrne, called
The Drunken Proyencal $
Or, The Sal/or'j Return.
Ivre Mr . Bj rne
Will, Mr. Worrell, jun.
V'==»•, Sis. Dodor
Mr. Bli/fett
Dicky Gcilip, Mr. Mitchell
Sufen, Miss Milieurne
Sailors, Meflrs. J. Dirley, T. Warrell, Macdonald,
_ Morgan, St. Mare, Lavancey.
Liffes, Mrs. Doctor, Miss Oldfield, Miss HEftraage-
Miss Pates, Miss Anderfon, M'lle Sophie.
To which will be added,
A FARCE, called
Anjmal Magnetism.
Marquis de Lancy, Mr. Fox
Fleur, Mr. Harweid
Dodlor, Mr. Fraticis
Picard, Mr." McDonald
Francois, Mr. Warrell, jun.
Jeffery, Mr Blijett
Conitance, Mrs., Harvey
Mrs. Francis
Box, One Dollar cents. Pit Seven Eighths
of a Dollar, and Gallery, half a dollar.
Tickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's fiook-ftore.
No. 50 High-street, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requelted to fend their
servants to keep places a quartw before 5 o'clock, and
to order them, as soon as the company are seated, to
withdraw, as tbey canoot on any account be permit
ted to remain.
Places for the Boxes to be taken at the Office on Satur
day moening, as usual.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
Places f«r the Boxes to t>e taken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from is till % o'clock, and from
10 till 4 on the days of performance.
n VAT RES PUB LICA J
Coilege-Hall.
—
Readings and Recitations,
; Mhral. r r ;f»~rl
THIS EVENING, Thursday, Feb. a, at 7 o'clock,
s By desire, will be repeated,
THE EFFECTS OF AMBITION AND GUILT,
Confidtred, traccd and exemplified in the chara&er of
Macbeth.
With recitations of the most striking scenes, and moral
and critical observations on the charader, and on the au
thor.
Tickets tobe had of Mr. Poulfon, jun. at the library ;
atnir. M'Elwee's looking-glafs-flore, No. 70, S. Fourth
llreet ; and at Mr. Carey's, Bookfelle'r, Market-street—
Half a dollar each.
——— f • —
Notice.
THE Advertiferis a person regularly bred, and has
carricd on in an extensive manner for these 30 years
past, the various branches of Goldsmiths' and Jew
ellery, plaled and hard-ware Cutlery, and Ironmonge
ry business, and general knowledge of the Dry
Good and rnasy other businesses. He has a particular
iafte for building, has built extensively for himfelf,
has conduced buildings for others, and is of opinion
that his iervices to auy gentleman that might be in
■went of a person taconduifl any of the aforel'aid busi
nesses, would not only be ufeful but an acquisition, as
he will engage on liberal terms, either as a falafman
or to fell on commission as an agent, a<st as a partner or
take the care of a manufactory, or superintend build
ing, &c. He is a married man, and having no family
but his wife who would a<ft as a saleswoman or houie
keeper. No objeflion to any part of the Southern
Hates, or to take a voyage to EuropeMa fupersargo.
A line directed to J. C. to the care of the printer,
will be punctually attended to.
N. B. He is well acquainted with most of the Eng
lish, Irish, and Scotch manufactories, as he carried ou
business for tea years in London, but on account of
unavoidable misfortunes in his country, he is now for
ced to seek for a living for himfelf and wife in this •
way, and he flatters himfelf that he will give entire
f»tisfa£Uon~to his employer. And as he is well known
in this city, and to the most refpeflable characters on
the continent, doubts not but his character, morality
and indefatigable indullry, will bear the ftd&cft en
quiry /
Dec. 18. lawtf
Warranted Likenefles,
Taken by WILLI AM WILLIAMS.
Prices from 10 to 100 Dollars.
A few young Ladies ma> be inftrufted in the elegant Artr
of Drawing and Painting, by applying to the above artist at
hishoufe, the North Ealt Coiner of Fourth and Pine Stieets ;
where Specimens of his performance may be seen.
Feb. ~ , 3t<
£3" ON FRIDAY,
The third inlt. at half past » o'clock. P. M- the Annual
Orati n of the Philadelphia Medical Society, will he deliver
ed at the City Tavern—where all the honorary members are
jcquefted to attend.
By order of the Society.
THE SUBSCRIBER
WISHES to ascertain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by .trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer."
who quitted Ireland i* 178.3, or and came mt«
this Country, ('tis fuppefed to Philadelphia} about
four years since, be living or dead. As this intelli
gence is of thehigheft importance, it will be thankful
ly received, by GEO. DA.VIS,
No. 313, High-street
December 31. w&fi f
, \ —— ——-— i -r-
Philadelphia, February 2.
COMMUNICATIONS. ■
That man who pofTtlTes at this moment a greater
degree of affectionate, diflntereded veneration thaw
ever fell to the lot of a man before, has '« unfolded
a talc' to his lillening country, and to the wprld,
which will by awakening American feelings, ren
der the mind, the public mind of Atnerica, alive to
the dignified sentiment of real independence. The
President, by a plain, unadorned narrative, has at
once difpla\ed the fair and honorable course that
the government has pursued towards France, and
the wavering, mterefled, boading conduit, princi
ples and language, which the French Oionar«bii>
and republicans have held towards this country. It
was doubtless an unpleasant task to perform ; but
to do it, wai rendered essential to a vindication of
the people, the congress and the executive, against
j the acts of a feduftion that could be dangerous to
us only while the people remained ignorant of cer
tain great fatls —and against those vain gWious
menaces which were to become coutemplibly harm
less the instant their injudice should be developed to
the Union. The character of the Americans was
not understood—the European politician indeed
might easily be misled by appearances here—by the
total absence of those emblems of defence and of
t fence which cxift in Europe, in line of batrle fliips,
ready for service, and an imposing parade of drums,
, colours, and regimentalled soldiers. But there is
not a country gentleman in America who docs not
know that the present Jlation of this country is ex
tremely important—and that were it forced into a
war at the present juncture, it could and would
carry an unimpaired and frefh vigour into its mili
tary achievements, that •would at leajl place all the
i/lands and territories on this fide the Atlantic at the
feet of the United States.
The conduct of the government proves its well
grounded attachment to This attachment
proceeds from the real sympathy that is preserved
between a growing, flourifhing and virtuous people,
. and the government;—from no ignorance of abund
ant resources; but an enlightened and honest wish
. to make a happy and virtuous use of them. All
Eutope vill mark the moderation that preferv'es us
in a (late of neutrality, at a moment when to place
ourselves in the scales of war would be Jec[five. It
is the sincere wish of every federal man in the go
vernment, to avoid hodilities—convinced, as they
mud be, that the moment that the truth is told in
France, the directory will recall those orders, and
retract that fydem against neu'ral nations which is
so particularly offenfive to their dear allies.
A correspondent who was lately in the lobby of
the House of Reprefefltativcs of the United States,
when compensations were before the House, coald
not but remark with pleasure that many gentlemen
have ceased to imitate the French model of repuilican
ifm, in some things—even in fomejhings where imi
tation to a degree would have had the air of origi.
nal eood sense. The French ref-aWicans give their
dire«ary-,—wno-nrc -certainly icpuuucatis, a fuperL
palace, the Luxembourg, as a residence, magnify
ccntly furnifhed—Whereas our patriots are for
making the officers of government rcfide without
any house at all—and for feeding them as though
they were preparing under the old Suttonian legi
men, for the small-pox. A by (lander, who is an
ingenious mechanic, fuggefled the idea of produ.
cing a fiame s shaped a good deal like a man, which
he said would do as a tejl coat for future dfficers
and would not admit any mau but one of those thin,
emaciated figures which it (truck him some gentle
men imagined as eflential to the qualification of a
secretary But on its being remarked, that thole
thin.-philosophical fellows, who (larve at table, al
ways took care to take a ravenous meal in theclofet,
he gave up the idea, and agreed that on the whole
it was impossible to make a tejl coat—appearances
were so exceedingly, deiujive.
The late precious confejions.of a certain colonel, a
eader in a Democratic club, proves no more than what
has for several years been imputed with truth to that
vile brood—To these conspirators— the uujuflifiable
condua ps the French in capturing American veflik,
ought to ke charged-as it appear, by that the
five kings of Club< chose rather to believe the Demo
crats than the Executive, as probably (from their de
crees) being more congenial with their principles—
Hear what the colonel lays himfelf, OH being a Iked tie
other evening what he thought of the condudl of the
rreach now—he answered he thought them perfectly
right, it was what wedelerved for making the Britilh .
•treaty t he then added HE had -wrote to them three
years ago to pursue their present plan. Every friend
to the United States will readily believe, this Demo
cratic (inner s confefiion, from its being so consonant
> their toasts, their ientiments and their writings in
all the Democratic gazettes—Treason with them is ho
crime, the truth of which is verifying daily* from their
awn hps, and with a front too, as hrafen as their
hearts, and like old rogues lie in the fame breath by
charging the government with plodding the evils we
now fuflfer from the French, while they acknowledge
they have wrote to them three years ago to commence
them. That period was before the treaty was made or
any measures taken that produced it.
NEW THEATRE.
On Monday evening the historical play of Colum
bus, or, A World Discovered, was presented to the .
molt numerous and brilliant audience ever witnefled in
this City—and great praise is certainly due to the ma
nagers tor the expensive magnificence with which the"
play is got up—nor ought we to withhold the tribute
ot our acknowledgments for their liberal and dilinte
re a 0"""?'" reducing the price of the pit ticket,
on the fliil night ot a piece which attrafled and cannot
tail long to attrafl a crowded auditory.— The whole <
icenery is finely imagined, and its execution reflects the
higheit credit on the talents of Mr. Milbourne—but
mthefceneof theflorm, the thunder and lightning,
temples tumbrng into ruin... with the volcano or burn
ing mountain appearing in the back ground -the gran
deur of ihe aftefling fpetfacle exceeds every thing we
have ever yet beheld, while its force was felt and ac
knowledged by every one present.
Of the performers it is difficult to speak without in
difcrimmate prarte— I Thofe exquifitelv sweet and pa
hetic tones by which Mrs. Merry brought tears into
the eyes ot the whole audieacc, defy the powers of
panegyric—Mr. Morton performed his part without
any diminution of his accustomed excellence, and ob
tained the plaudits he so well deferved—Mr.Wignell,
Mr. Hsrwood and Mr. Franpis supported the comic
business of the play with an exertion of those talents
wiich seldom fail to set the theatre in a roar.—Mr.
Cooper looked Columbus well, and the few lines he
had to deliver were given in a forcible and jmpreffive
manner. — Mcflrs. Warren, so* and L'Eftrange were
perfect in their several alotments and have a claim to
our commendation—Mrs. Francis in her ailing did
great justice to the part of Nelty—but her dress was
not appropriate—her own taste will furnifli the neces
sary alteration.
CONGRESS OF the UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF RIPRESESTATITES.
Wednesday, January I r.
Mr. Dwight Feller, from the committee of
claims, made report! on the petitions of John Bap
till Dumout and Michael Hillegas, which were
against the petitioners ; they were twice read and
concurred in by the House.
Mr. Swift, from the committee to whom was
referred that part of the President's speech relating
to the promotion of agriculture, made a report,
recommending the institution of a society for that
purpose under the patronage of government, which
might aft as a eomtron centre to all other societies
of a similar kind throughout the United States.
No public provision is contemplated, except for the
salary of a secretary and for dationary i but if [the
(late of the treasury should make even this unadvifa
ble, it is dated that it might be carried into effect
without pecuniary aid. The report is accompani
ed by a plan, the principle articles of which are,
that a society (hall be edablifhed at the feat of go
vernment ; that is (hall comprehend the legislature
of the United States, the judges, the secretary of
(late, the secretary of the treasury, the secretary of
war, the attorney general, and such other membets
as should chufe to become members agreeable to the
rules prescribed ; that an Annual meeting should be
held.at the feat of govßrnment, at which is to be
chofcn the President, fectetary, &c and a board
to conGft of not more than thirty persons, which
(hall be called a " Board of Agriculture that the
society (hall be a body corporate ; , that a report
(hall be made annually, &c. The report conclud
ed in these words, " Resolved that a society for the
promotion us agriculture ought to be established at
the feat of government of the United States."
A bill was received from the senate for repealing
the limitation of the aft in additon to an aft for
the puiiihinent of certain crimes againtt the
Unite States, and to continue in force the fame.
It was twice read, and ordered to be committed
to a committee of the whole on Monday.
Mr. W. Smith gave notice that he (hould to
morrowcall up the report of fabe committee of ways
and means, on the fubjeft of providing further rev
enue.
Mr. Madifan called for the order of the day on
the bill for making provision for the claim of Mon
sieur Poirea, as secretary and aid-de'eamp to Major
General La Fayette. The house then took it up,
when.after some debate it was ordered to be engroff
for a third .read-morrows * Adiourned.
i hurfday, January 12.
T he house having resolved ilfclf into a commit
tee of ths whole on the report of the committee
of ways JMid means on the fubjeft of further reve
nue, Mr. Dent in thechair, and the following refa
ction being under confiderarion.
" Refolyed that there ought to be apportioned
according to the last census of the several states,
the lum of t 0 be raised bv the
following direst taxes, viz.
A tax ad valorem upon all lands, with their
imptovements, including town lots with the build
ings thereon.
" A tax on (laves with certain exceptions."
Mr. W. Smith said two quedions presented them
selves on this occasion ; the fird, whether any and
what further revenue was wanted, and secondly,
what means shall be used for raising it. With ref
peft to the fird, any gentleman who had taken a
view of aur engagements and revenue, would not
hesitate to fay a farther provision was neceflary. In
order to evince this, however, it might not be im
proper to .take a view of our public contracts and
revenue. They had before them, he fnid, the re
port of the secretary of the treasury on the fubjeft,
which not only contained a (late of our finances,
but of the revenue laws of the different dates, and
other valuable materials, necessary to be had in or
order to foim a fydem 0} direst taxation for the
whole Union. Mr. S. proposed, therefore, to'give
as brief an abftraft as pofiible of the date of our
'public revenue on thefudof July lad. He then
entered upon the following dateraent
1. Foreign debt J 1,800,c00
3 - J ft r ck 29.344.752
3. Deferred do. , 14,578,882
4. 3 per cent do. *9.597.545
5. 5 1 2 per cent da. 1,848,900
6. 4 1 2 per cent do. 176,000
7. Unfunded regidered debt 179.953
8. Debts due to Bank of United
Slates and Bank N. York 6,200,000
The sum ascertained by the re-1
cords of the Treasury J "3>7 I
Unascertained and unliuuida-*
ted, supposed 1 » 1 24,404
Total > 84,850,438
Oft-Sets.
1. 6 per cent dock redeemed 1,170,232
2. Deferred do. 930.753
3. 3 percent do. 610,757
,4. Bank dock 2,000,000
5. 2 per principal redeem. 544,066
5,255,810
, 79.J94.628
Payments annually required by Contrasts
id. Foreign Debt. The contrasts refpefti'ng
the foreign debt require annual reimbursements by
unequal payments until 1809, when the lad pay
ment is to be made.
The whole sum, including principal and in
terest 16,772,44-
The average sum, annually requisite for the foreign
dabt, during the 14 years which it is to conti
nue, is 1,197,888
Add eitimated expence of remittance,
&e. 5 percent 59>537
Average sum, annually requisite, to
1809, inclusive i,257>4 2 6
This estimate, founded on a supposition :hat a
systematic plan will be adopted for fatisfying the
contra&s, by diredt payments —if new loans, the
expence of reimbursement, increased by charges of
negociations calculated at 6 or 7 per cent on the
capital borrowed.
2d. The 6 per cent stock, (exclusive of sum,
veiled in Sinking Fund) it 28,174,520, on which
the annuity of 8 per cent, 2,253,961
The captital pafied to the (inking
fund 1,170,232, ann. intft. 7°> 21 3
2,324,175
3d. Deferred Stock, on which payments com
mence in 1801, it 13,648,128, (cxclufive of
930,753, paHed to Sinking Fund) 011 which an
nuity at 8 p. cent. 1,091,850
Interest on capitaj pa fled to
Sinking Fund *55,845
1,147,694
This last sum will be required from 1801 t>»
1823 inclusive. During 1824, the charge will be
reduced to 925,000, and after that, wholly ceafc
with the reimbursement of the debt.
4th. Three per cent ttock (exclusive of sum
paired to the Sinking Fund) is 18,986,787, annu
al interest 569,603
Stock, passed to Sinking Fund
610,757, annual interest 18,322
587,926 •
The duration of this annuity is indefinite.
sth. Stock of 5 1-2 per cent, is
1,848,900, ann. interest 101,689
6th. Stock of 4 1-2 per cent, is
176,090, anß. interest 7>9 J ®
7th. Unfunded debt, viz.
registered, 179>953
unregistered, 1,124,404
. *'304.357
On which the ann. interest is 78,261
Bth. Debts due to the Bankt of the
UnitedStata and Neiu York, amounting
to 6,200,000, ann. interest 372,000
/; 559. 8 70 .
These annuitiei comprize all the demands in con
fluence of the debt. /
The Provisions they require are dajfed as follow,
viz.—
1. From the year 1796 to the end of 1800—
For Foreign debt 1,257,425
6 per cent. stock 2,324,175
3 percent, do. 587,926
5 t-2 per cent. do. 101,689
4 1-2 per cent, do- 7,920
Unfunded debt 78,261
Bank debts 372,000
4,729,397
2. From 1801 to 1809 inclusive, when the
foreign Debt will be extinguished—
For above 4,729.398
And anu. on deferred debt 1,147,695
_ „ 5,877,093
3* from 1810 to 1818 inclusive, when the
6 per cent stock will be extinguished,
' F »r abuve 5,877,049
Deduct Foreign Debt 1,257,426
4,619,668
4' from 1819 to 1824 inelufive, when the
deferred stock will be cxiinguiftied,
4^619,668
Dedudt 6 per cent, stock 2 >3 2 4>175
2,295,493
5. After 1 824, ftippofing the above mentioned
extinguished, increase of debt
For above 2) 2.5,49,
Deduct deferred stock 1,147,695
r . n „ >.H7,798
Interest on 3 per cents. 587,926"
5 1-2 do. 101,689
4 1-2 da. 7,920
Unfunded debt 78,261
Bank debts 372,000
; . M 47.796 '*
Bv eftablilhiog a revenue adequate'to current ex
pences of government, in addition to the foregoing
estimate, during the periods above recited, the fol
lowing reductions of debt would be eff'e&ed :
1. At the close of 1809, 'he
Foreign debt 11,800,000
2. At the close *f 1818, the
present 6 per cent, stock 29,U4,7<2
3. At the close of 1824, 'the
deferred 6 per ceut. stock 14,578,882
55' 723-635-
There would then flill temaiu :
1. The 3 per cent, stock I 9>S97'S4S
2. 5 1-2 percent stock i,848,90©
3 ' tt r 4 per cent, do. 176,000
4. Unfunded and unliquidated
e^ls ',304356
5. Debts due to banks or lub
<s,2oc,oeo
29,126,80 aBut if a revenue be established equal to charge
of 1801, (viz.
For the deb? 5)887,0947
Expences of gov. 2,700,0003 °'577>°94,
tbe whole debt may be extinguished by the yeai
1824, befiries a considerable additional debt, i
such should arifefroin contingencies.
Probable permanent annual Expences «( Govern
' ment.
Civil lift 486,00t
Intercourse with foreign natiosi 10®,«oc
Mint eftablilhment 40,00 c
Light houfcs 35,00 c
Loan offices j z,ooc
Miscell aneous object and contingent
expences 37,00«
Militia and naral department, and
penfiant 2,e00,c0c
' 3,700,00 c
'Estimating thf expences of government at 2,700,
000, it follows hat, to avoid future loans, it is re
qailite to tftablift a revenue, to the close ot 1800,
viz.
Eor the debt 4,729,368") „
Expences S gov. 2,700,000 j 7>4 2 9>39
And fron the jear 1801 to 1809, intlufive, viz.
For the deit 5,877.694") a
Expences a gov. 2,700,0003 '577'°94
Though) revenue on thislaft scale would be
more thon jfficient todifcharge the whole debt be
fore 1824, jet the abfalute engagements of the Uni
ted states wl not require, after 1809, more than
7,3 19,668,iz. for debt 4,619,668")
for<pencescfgov. 2,700,0003
Existing corads and expences require therefore
at present 7,429,390
Contra&i'nd expences existing after the year
ißop and MBO9 inclufivcrequire 8,577,094
Probae Revenues from existing laws.
Duties on irrtrts am> tonnage 5,588,961
ondoiftic distilled fpi
ril refined fug&r,
sal at auction, li
cqs, carriages 337,255
Revenue frormft offices 35>000
Dividends on nk stock, cal
culated on theses 150,000
Inter, on ftockfinking Fund 88,636
Duties on pat< and contin
gent receipts 7-46
Estimated amt.rr. revenue 6,200,600
1c results thhe following sums mud be pro
vided, in additito existing revenues, viz*
1. Fiom thef en t time to
\ the end of 180 c $228,798
2. From '18a the end ef
iBo 9 2,376,494
3. From 181. the end of
*823 . ' ' 1,119,061
To provide thjsg annually required till 1801
inay be done wit( imposing inconvenient bur
dens. . ■
To reimbtyfe Whole foreign debt, by direfl
payment before 1 ma y be practicable. It is
however after 18c I occasional loans
will be advilable,h a view of postponing the
final re imburfmenpai-t until after 1818, when
the present 6 per y c bt will be discharged,
Mr. Smith laid fibans could not how be had,
upon :iny reafonabl$ S) there was no way of rail
ing the money wantjt by tax upon the people.
The question was w' Br t of taxes should be resorted
to? Members, he f% ere divided betwee* direa
and indiredl taxes iJ| we re agreed than an addi
\ * tional revenue of I,dollars being wanted, some
tffedlual steps were ix r y to be taken. Jf indiruft
taxes had proved inlmt, it was necessary to have
recourie to some knew of no other that
wouiu bi. so tfi'e>slual ijre<fl tax on land."
relpedl to rajfurther revenue from com
merce, h« believed itnot poflible to do it to any
considerable exter t, *is source, he said, was at
baft but a precarious off, then, they had tried all
other sources without t, they should be obliged
to have rtco«rfe to a li x . And he'would submit
it to gentlemen whethyas not best to meet the dif
ficulty at onv. If, M the necefiities of govern
ment, the ptibftc laict\ ( > j the country, re
quired it, it is nteeflarjj) ro p er we should look the
evil in face.
Notwithstanding he this opinion, Mr. S.
said, he should be glad \ r t j,e sentiments of gen
tlemen on the jubje*, were !n favor of other
plan 6, though he was ap n f lv e they should be o
bliged to have recourse t|- ource hc had ment ioned.
Indeed there was one of the fubjea which
•would such a fyftc( rab [ e) though our neces
sities did not immediately it _ At pre f cnt) he
said, ajmoft the whole of . vcnue aro s e from com
merce, and was liable to* much deranged by
any European war, aud who n y dsftroyed, if
this country Ihould engag wsr> j t wcre tQ be
wished, therefore, that tfy u j d bc a p| an created,
which might at any time, t, ort not ; SCi be carried
into effea to an extent wh u , d be equal t0 t , le
necessities ot would anfwfr
l!,i« purpefe so well as a Suppo f e) he f aidj
the plan was onginated w^ 9QO dol | ars>
the lyftem open, they cou:y time raise it t0 onc
or two millions; as, if c^ efcrj tion , of , and
wcre charged a qnarter per , hey mi hl ea r ]y be
advanced to one half, three rs or,one per cent,
without embarraflTment.
»Mr. S. laid, this fubjeft h n frequently under
the confidcration of the com of WJ End mean ,
and had always been aof at jm .
pertanee, and as attended wit derable difficulties, j
There had always been a d,v, that Co mmitteeon
this fuhjedl, certain of them , to raift [he mo .
ney by and others taxatioil) b ut it
had always been found that ey turned from
direst to indirea taxation, so cb j e aions were
brought againfl any planwwhs, s propo s e d, that
there was no possibility of pro. j n tbf j- tJ
fien fevrral objeils were prop (jt were ob
jeifted to and abandoned, and tb tbey bad de
termined t» ref«rt to a fyllem taxa (i ani ' afld
had accordingly given dne»ft !o Jie secretary of
the tre«!u y to prepare a plan l pu ,. p8 f c . Thi
plan had bem reported, and re, t) ,e committee
of way. and mc^ns: an. 1 . befor^ inm|tte< . c)lof;
to go tai ther into the bufiiftls. :g ]ed holJi r e
lo dettnniuc'Lpon the priiicipley ardj) jf aaia .
I jority fbou'.d be in favor of direA taxation, the com
mittee would bring in such a bill as (hould appear to
them to be least bmrthenfome to the people. But, if
I gentlemen were of opinion rht money wanted i oald
be better raised in any other way, they would, of
course, pr®pofe their plans ; but he hoped tley should
r not fhift from one thing to another, without fixing on
any thing, since the wants of governmeat mult be
supplied.
Mr. Coit hoped the resolution would be adopt
-1 ed : not that he wished to pledge himfelf to agree
to any fyflem of dire& which might b*
1 proposed He looked upon the agreeing to the re
solution as only one rtep. Whether eventually such
a plan could be devised as the house approve
was tin eitain j bat he (hould wish to look at the
plan which gentlemen bad in contemplation.
« Mr. Harpei said, if they could look at the plari, as
the gentleman from Conneai-.-ut (Mr C»if) had sup
posed, without pledging themselves to adopt a lyfttna
of direa taxation, he would also be glad to fee it ;
but, he believed, to adopt the resolution before them,
would be to decide upon the principle of direa taxa
tion. Afterwards, all the question would be as to the
modification of the system, and the manner in which
it should be carried Into effea. But, he believed, a
majority of that house, neither was, nor would be
prepared to fay this was the mod eligible and conveni
ent mode of raising revenue.
It was true that they all knew, they knew it last
session, that the money wanted mull be raised from the
people by means of taxati®n The queftioa was only
about the mode. The committee of ways and means
had given them a resolution of four lines, that direa
taxes ought to be laid ; but how, or under what mo
dification, or how the difficulties which were acknow
ledged to exifi, were to be got over, they were not
told ; but 'hey were called upon to determine upon
thp principle, without any information on the fubjea
He wished the committee of ways and means might be
inflruaed to give them the data upon which they
meant to found their plan; that they might be in
ftruaed to shew the'm the means by which this plan
was to be effeaed. They eloubtlefs had considered
tins; but tne committee of the whole had not consi
dered it; nor had they the matKrials for going into the
mveftigation. It w*s his desire. that before they com
mitted themselves, that they might know more about
the matter than they then knew ; that they should
have the system before them, and-that they might not
decide upon the abltraa principle, without having
that system He should, therefore, be againfl the re
solution, and move for the committee to rife, that the
report might be re-corumitted, for the purpose of ob
taining a sketch of the plan which had been contem
plated. ,
Mr. Swtnwick hoped the committee would not
rife, until they had determined upon a question
wlii< h was of the firll importance to this country ;
a question which it had been well for us if it had
been intioduced'long ago, but which, he trulled
was not now too late to be of cflVntial service. At
present, he said, produce was falling, and <jf course,
any tax upon the farmer would not be so well re
ceived as if their produce was upon the rife ; but,
he trulted, the wealth of the country mull have be
come so considerable, from the high price which
every agricultural production had long been at, as
to enable them very well to support the necessary ex
pences of government. Theft expences, they
knew, mud be supplied from one of three fourccs ;
either from loans which have heretofore been made
in Europe, at great expence of agency, brokerage,
coramiffion, &e. or from impofl, erbyinteinal re
venue,' or excise.
Into what situation, he asked, had this loan-ma
king business brought this country ? They have
created, what seemed to be wished on all hands to
be avoided, a foreign influence over thu country.
It had made us dependent upon what i: was not in
otir power ; upon every accident which
might happen at Amlterdam or Antwerp. So far
as related to imports, this fouice of revenue wasex
pofed to the influence of war, and absolutely de
pendent upon any foreign government which might
please to annoy us. Was this, he aflced, an envia
ole situation ? He thought not. This dependance
upon f'6reign nations, was a great difadvautage in
ali negociations. %
With refpeft to excise, he need not fay how un
pto luctive it had been. Tjie article of fnuff, in
stead of producing any thing, had brautjht the
revenue in debt ; and the excise on another article,
had called forth the military to enforce it. For his
part, he saw no way of avoiding these difficulties,
but to come to that cardinal point, which they had
in view, of direst taxation He (hould, there
fore, be hi favour of the resolution before them, be
cause it fixed the principle.
It was necessary, Mr. S, said, to the importance
and firmnefs of Government, to determine whe
ther the land of the country be not equal to bear
its share in the expences of Government. This tad
hitherto been evaded ; but he trulled this mass of
! property would no Lnger escape from paying its
1 due proportion towards the public burthens. For
when it was known in foreigr? countries, that all
our revenue was bottomed upon our commerce, it i
was holding out an invitation to them to piay'off!
hollilities upon us. Great Britain, be said, had ta- i
; ken the lead in annoying our trade, which had
brought us to the Britilh treaty. We- were row '
brought into another situation by that inflrument •
the French were now laying hold of our cotamerce!
It was said that Great Britain drew very little
support trom her land, in comparifan to what she
drew from her commerce ; but she had a fleet to
defend her commerce, and therefore, if she drew
a great deal from it, she was also at some expense
in ftipporting it. Our trade, he laid, was unpro
tected. It was true, we obtained seven millions of
dollars from it, without being at any ,expense in
return. But, he said, there was no certainty of
this ; aud without some plan like the present, there
would be no security for supporting the expenses of
our government; nor could aijy negotiation ever be
properly supported, until the yeomanry of our coun
try should join in the support of our common inter
ell. It was absolutely neceflary, Mr. S. said, to
decide upon one of two principles, either to support
commrr. e by a navy and thereby secure the re
venue arising from it, or «!fe call upon agricul
ture to bear its lull (hare *of the public burthens.
—He therefore wilhed the principle to be fettled with
out regard to modification, because the more fun pie
the in which the objea was placed the better,
i'he modification would probacy be an »fter business ■
asd, when members had agreed upon the neceflity of
adopting the principle of a direa tax, thtiropp c fiti cn
• to any particular pLjis wlncti might fee offered would
>be moderated, to tbe best fyiteni which coul.l be
devised w«uki probably be adopted.
I [To be Continued.']
1 wiima——i^—
: Philadelphia,
THURSDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY », 1797.
Married, on Tuesday tvenirig last, by the Rev. Dr,
I Helmut!*, Ur. G-jillaume Waster Adleustbrren,
j of Lancaster, to Miss F. C. Louise Eckstein, daughter
of John Eckfteio of this city.
to correspondents.
On further consideration, we think it proper to
defer the publication of " X. X."'
The publication of th« piece figncd " ARGUS,"
at the present moment, we conceive, could infwer no
valuable purpose.
Thi Swedilh brig, Vigilance, Capt. Rieter, from
Corfiea and Malaga, it arrived at Reedy Iflaud.'
The veflels mentioned to have arrived at Reedy
Iflaud, have got up to the Hook.
* The ftiip Columbia, Mason, fr»m Amsterdam is arri
ved at Mareus Hook.
The Swedish brig Vigilance was boarded the 30th
Decctnber by the Lynx floopof war ; three of her crew
preffid, and olherwife uncivilly treated.
Communication.
It was at fit ft imagined that the Agents of the
French Directory in the Well-lndiea were ifluing
and executing ordeis for capturing and condemning
American veflels, without authority from the Di
rectory : but this is probably a mittake. Their a
gents in Spain are doing the fame thing there. It
is also a fa& that the captures by French armed
veflels are not confined to Americans, several
Swedilh and JDanifh veflels have been already
captured and earrird into Spanilh Forts in Eu-'
rope, and an this principle, that they were go
ing to or from ports of the enemies of France ;
and on this prim iple the French coiifnl at Cadiz
avowed his determination to condemn all neutral
veflels—faying he had authority so tc do.
By this day's Mail.
CHARLESTON, January 16.
Saturday arrived the (loop Nancy, Huntington,
Havartna, I4days; ihip Northern Liberties, Ged
des, Hie of France, 117 days; brig Lydia, Caf
farena, Cadiz, 14 daysfloop Mercury, Brown,
Savannah, 2 days.
Yesterday arrived the ftiip Phebe, Stone, Cape
de Verds, 76 days, in diltrefs, bound to Kenne
beck ; brig Harmony, Marshall, Port-au Prince,
15 days; brig Gute Henrietta, Schmidt, Teneriffe,
56 days ; sloop Fame, Benfon, Africa, 77 day 6,
in distress, bound to Bollon ; fiiip Hop&, Rodman,
Turk's Island, 12 days; brig Hannah, Kenny, St.
Thomas's, 35 days, in distress, bouud to Philadel
phia ; ship M/ry, Peterfon, Bath, 14 day 6.
Off C&pe Tiberoon, captain Siane, ot the (hip
Pfeebt;-, from the lfle of Bona Villa, was brought
to by a British frigate ; a boat boarded him and
carried off an American seaman, named Samuel
Huff, belonging to Kennebunk river ; their pretext
for taking him was that he had n«t a protection.—
Capuifi Stone could not learn the frigate's name.
Entkkib.
Brig Nabby, Gardner, Barbadoes
Mary, Callender, Cape Francoi>
Aurora, Brown, Hamburgh
Thomas Pinckney, , New-London
Catawba, , Sr. Thomas's
Aurora, Wooldridge, Marblehead
Sloop Maryland, , Nassau
Walhiagton, Prior, Bolton
'■ Three Brothers, Mauran, Rhode-Island
Revenue, Sawyer, Ntw-London
Mary, Briggs, New-York
January 18.
Yesterday arrived the schooner Industry, Rofs, Sa
vannah, in a days; schooner Letreiy, Crabb, Rhode
| llland.
The day before capt. Marlhall, who arrived on
| Sunday last, left Port-au-Prince, a government cutter 4
arrived therein 38 days from England. She brought'
I accounts of admiral Thompson having failed for the
' Well-Indies, with j fail of the line, with General
| Abererombie on board. Nothing further had trans
pired. An iS gun brig, belonging to Guadaloupe,
had been captured by the Briifti fleet, and a frigate
that was in company with her, was drove on Ihore.
NORFOLK, January 23.
Extra& from the Log Book of the sloop Zilplia,
Benjamin Guild, mailer, twenty-seven days from
Jamaica.
Left at St. Lucie, the brig Dauphin, Captain
Cutis, of Portsmouth, (N. H.)
j Jan. 12, in lat. 32, 16, N. long. 78, 28, W.
I spoke the sloop of Philadelphia in dillrefs,
| having fpiung a beam, atid the fca making a fair
breach .over her. At 6 P- M. the cap.airi told
me the leak increased on him ; lay to by the sloop
the whole night, (it blowing a gale) but supposed
she mult have funk, as nothing could \>e seen of
her in the morning.
Jan. 13, in lat. 33, 43, N. long. 76, 11, W*
spoke the btig Lydia, Cornelius Dunman, mailer
from Cadiz, out 106 days, quite cut of provisions.
Capt. Guild fupplii-d him with bread, meat, wood
and water ; the brig was tight, the crew all well,
but the fails were much weather b.%ten. Captain
Dunman was bound t» Boflon ; had got supplies
from the schooner Abigail of Baltimore, bound for
[ the Indict, the whole ofwhofecrew (except
the captain and one hand) were so badly frdlt bit
ten that they could not fiand tha deck.
ARRIFED.
Brig Eliza, M'Connel, Liverpool
Courtney, Livingllon, Havanna
Schr. Minerva, Perkins, Antigua
Citizjft, Gilbert, "Guadaloupe
Elizabeth, Goodwin, St. Thomas's
Ziljsha, Guild, Jamaica
Sloop Thomas and Sally, Allen, P«rt-au Prince.
BALTIMORE, Jam* y 31.
Friday anivtd at Anuapuh.-., Uie (rhooner Dor
cliefter, captain BJuth, ffum Porto-Rico, 16 days.
Captain Booth left there—
Ship Mount Vernon, (till Under trial.
Halcyon, Taylor, as Providence, t<» (ail for Ha
vannah.
Brig Minatrva, Long, of Philadelphia fur St.
Domingo. v 1
Hiram, Lowering, ditto for dittn,
Schosner Betsey," Jones, of Norfolk, for Balt»
Sljop Indnftiy, Wheeler, for Ph a el Kia.
The thipja>e, captain Besrd, arrived ai Porto-
RicO; from Baltimore, in 29 days. Was boarded
by an English cruifcr, had his fetters broken open,
and was other wife ill treated.
A French armed brig, from Charleston, arrived
at Porto-Rico, the-fajne day the Jane arrived, who
reported, that alj the American ports were (hut.
Captain Baoth informs, tjiat fume time last
month, the French privateer Flying-Filh, hoarded
a Genoese (hip, and after an adion of 3 gloffcs, 1
captured her. '1 he Genoese had 011# man kilted
and another wounded. The MuUn. Vernon was
not yet condemned. Orders areiexpcdled from St.
Domingo rcfpe&ing her ; the governor is charped
with partiality to the Americans by the s Spani(h
merchants, which haaforthe present put a (top to
all proceedings in this cafe, and an entire ftagna
tiou of btrfinels.
Captain Booth left Annapolis on Sunday morn*
iug, at which time there "were tweulyone fail in
ward-bt>und veflels lying there.
Arrived on Friday last at Annapolis schooner s
e RSy> captain Gorfurh, 28 days from Jaquemcl.
Captain G- informs, that he wis boarded in the
Bite of Leogane by the Bri i£h frigate Arabufcade,
which pressed one of his men, an American by
birth and prote&ion—Spoke a (loop off the coafi,,
(name not recolle&ed) belonging to New-York,
from Jamaica to Norfolk, out 49 days, in.diftiefs.
Arrived at Annapolis on Saturday Schooner
Barbara captain White from the Havannah, which
he left on ihe 10th inliant. The mate lias arrived
in town, and informs, that the Nelly, Dfhitlds,
of Baltimore, was lying there, but had been seve
ral times ordered away by the governor, as the sale
of flv ur (h<?r cargo) was prohibited in that port.
Came up the bay in company with the brig Hiram,
from Norfolk ; and the schooner Beifey, Boyd
Arrived at Annapolis, on Saturday la it, fl.iap
Salty"; captain Hall, fiom Philadelphia, with good*
far this port. Captain Hall was detained 28 days
at Rheedy-Ifland, in the Delaware, by the iee.
The (loop Robert and William, captain Watts,
is arrived at Annapolis, in 19 days from Si. Mar
tin's. Weleain, by this ar-rival, that a great many
Ameriean veffrls hi;ve been carried in there and
condemned. An Indiaman, belonging to Clarke
and Nightingale, of Providence, Rhode Island,
from Batavia, with a cargo of £ 200,000 fralue,
had been sent in by a French privateer, and was
under trial when captain Waits (ailed.
The schooner Adeline, Stanley, is arrived at
Annapolis, from Jacqtlemel.
Snow Light-Horse is arrived at Annapolis, from
Porto-Rica, via Norfolk.
On SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, Feb. 4,"
\ between the hours of 6 and 8 o'clock,
IVillpafitively bt Sold at Public Vendue, at the Mcr •
ihant's Caffee House,
A N O T E,
Drawn by William Burgifs & Co. of SotflPThird
ftreet, near Market-street, Linen Drapers, in favour
of Robert Burgifs, jun. or order, for 600 dollars.
The said Note became due the 30th December last,
and was protested for non-payment.
An approved N»te at 60 days will betaken in pay.
nent. ,
February 1. 3
Insurance Company of the State of
Pennsylvania.
OTICE is herehy given, that the directors have de
i\ clared a dividend of thirty dollars per (hare, en
-he bufieufs of the last fix months 1 which will be paid to
he stockholders or their legal representatives, after the
10th instant.
SAM. W. FISHFR, Stc'y.
Philadelphia, Feb. ad, 1797. dtioth.
Lancajier, Harrifburgh, CarlifJe, Ship
penjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
The public are requested to take notice, that the part
ner/hip which has for sometime fubfifled between Mathi
as Slough of Lancaster, and William Geer, is nowdiflel
ved . but, not as M. insinuates to the public,
without just cause 5 as will more fully appear by a letter
on the fu'jedl from M. SloOgh te W. Geer, dated the
29th December last a recital o) which is Hot cow dcen «d
necessary. Auy gentleman who wilhes to be more cir r
currftantially informed of the mer its of this business, by
applying to W. Geer may have the perusal of M.Sloiigh's
letter, and then can be at full liberty to determine whe
ther or not W. Geer is not perfectly juftifiabie in attach
ing himfelf to any other per'on in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from PbiladsJj hi a to Shippenfbarg,
or any other place. *
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the public
were pleased to confer on the firft.effort in this business",
Vt illiam Geer, in conjunflion with Meffrj. Reily, Weed
and Wi'.mer, is determined ro profecuta and carry it on,
with every eare| attention and dispatch that'a zeal to 0-
blige tbe public can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided with
carriages, horf-s, and every appurtenance to render the
psffage fafe and commodious, inform those who wi(h to
patronize and encourage the undertaking, that they can
take their feats at George Weed's, the sign el the White
Horse, Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Laacalter Harrilburg, Carliflt
and Shipper]fburg The fare as hrthJrto eftabliflied.
For tbe further accommodation ot the public, a Staee
will start every Wednesday from the house of Samuel
Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sunbury in Northumber
land county, every Thurlday, and return from the»ce and
arrive at .Harrifourg every Saturday, so that paiTengera
ueftined for Laucafter or Philadelphia, may proceed on
Morfdays,
WILLIAM GtER.
Lancaster, Jan. *7, 1797.
„ B> Tkii ef Stages ft arts from the house of
William Ferree, in Lancaster, on every Tuesday and Sa
turday morning at 6 o'clock, proceeding to the weft ward ;
and from the house of Mr. Samuel I'lder in Harnlburg
every Wednesday morning, o* {he fame evening arrive*
at Patrick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns , from
thence on every Thursday : performing the fame routine
daily as in itftour from Philadelphia.
»•For Sale,
At the Office of the Ed t r of the Gazette of the
Unted States, «
A FEW COriES OF _ g
" An account of the Receipts and v
Expenditures of the United States, for the year J795-" I
January 18, '.797- 1
RRINTIRS
Who have incited Advcrtifesacnts at the raqueft of the
Zditsr of this Paper, 21 e delirea to forward their account!.
Jar-nary 30 . :
WATCH LOST
LOST, o* monday last, a silver stop Watch, makers'
names, u Hauxhurft and Doult, New-York, BC9 ,
on the face, hour-hand in a fmallcircle ; the inimutjt-hand
revolving in a larger. Whoever has found, and wdl re
turn the fame to fiKts Ebcer, corner of Second and
Catherine Streets, "toad receive 10 Dollais reward. If of
fered for ft!e it is requuftcd it may be stopped.
January 30 " 4t
Houses and Lots for sale,
BY the Sufefcriber, in the town of We't-Chefter, Chcf
ter county, 25 miles from Philadelphia, on the great
state-road, leading Weßward Viz. No. I. A two-story
atone House, the corner of High and Gay lireets, 4° feet
front by 34 feet deep, including a very convenient (lore- ;
honfe : the House contains ten well finilhed rooms, a kit
chen and entry : tke Lot is 144 feet front on Gay-street,
—equal to any ltand in West-Chester. No. 2. A two-sto
ry stone house adjoining, 27 feet front, containing e'evcr;
w:ll-fLiilhed rooms, both being ceiled in the garrets house
ud lot fame depth as the other, a kitchen, &c.—acllars
under both houses, with good stables on the lots. Theft
Houses are almost new, done by good workmen, in a
masterly manner. No. 3. A Lot 41 feet front. No. 4,
34 feet. No- 5, 44 feet. No. 6, 119 feet, all of them
ten rods deep. On two of the above are erefied three Jog
and frame houses, two fteries high, cellars -under the
whole, ar(d a small (lable to each-
The above Lots are situated near the Court-Houfe. The
whole will be exposed to PUBLIC a ALE, on the 2lltand
aid days of February next, at two o'clock, whenche con-"
ditions will be made known PofTefiion may be had the
f-rft of April next. The Title is iudifputafele.
JOHN KINNARD.
January a 8 * - aw 3w
SWAN N'S
Riding School, Horse Academy & Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Sited.
T. SWANN
RETURNS hit fiocere thanks tothofe gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, during his residence (n this City, and
flattershimfclf that the success of his efforts, in the numerous,
obstinate and dangerous difeafei in Horses, in which he ha*
been consulted, together with his moderate charges, will fe
ure their futurefavors and recommendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
that his Xpacious and commodious peemites, erefied for the
purpofee above described are open for the reception of pupils
of either lex, who wilhiobeinllru£ted in the Art of Riding
and the light method of governing their horses, so as to ride
them with cafe, elegance, and fafety—their horses wiU be
.carefully and expeditioufly broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient to; iie will of the riders ; the natural powers
■which are Ihut up in them, will be unfolded by art, caUing
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all those beauties of action which providence has so bounti
fully bellowed on them.
Also, at his hospital, every diforrier to which the horse is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by.l»ngand repeated experience.
The utility of the above mftitntion has never been qneftion
ed, that it has long been wanted in this eity, every gentleman's
stud will manifeft, and T. Swann as the fcilt eftablifher of
the veterenary art, solicits and relies upon the fuppeit of that
public (which he is ever anxious in serving) to enable him to
bring it to perfection. The idea of a ftibfcription for that
purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who with to
promote the inllitution—the amount of each fubferipiioo to
be returned by services in any of the departme«ts.he profeffes,
agreeable to the rate of charges dated in his hand Mil. Such
fobferij'tion is now open, and the figr.a'.ures Of many refpeft
able gentlemeu already obtained. He therefore-injorms hit
friends and fui h Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he shall in a few days take
the libertvof waiting upon them and folicking their support
and protection.
N- B. HorfeJ are properly prepared for those Lid iesimd
Oentlemenwho wilh to be infltucted.
N»v. 5. tth&f.
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South Fourth Jirett,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
and begs leave to folieit a continuance of their favors.
He has on hand an extensive assortment of the
Mo/l Fajhionaole GOODS,
And of the belt quality, suitable for the fcafor..
At this shop Gentlemen can be furniflied withthe heft
materials, and have them made up in the neatest and mod
'Fashionable manner, and en the fhortefl notice. He will
thankfully receiva any orders, and pay a prompt and
punctual attention; to them.
November io. ws
Bank of Pemifylvani-a,
January 4, 1797.
At a meeting of the Dire&ors this day, a dividend of
fifteen dollars on each ihire was declared for the last
6 months, which will We paid to the Stockholders at
ter the 14th inft. .
JONATHAN SMITH, Caihier.
J*"- 3• otf '
Samuel Richardet
P ESPECTFULLY informs the GentlemMi
fx v*» r chants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
eity of Philadelphia:
Ti- Su'efcription Room will be furailhed with all the
daily papers, published in Philadelphia, Niw-York, Boi
ron Baltimore, together with thole of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be. taken away on any account.
Tea, CofTee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of Fre-nch Liquors; together with the usual refrelhmenw,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the chciceft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mofl
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
produfiions of the Season.
Jjf"e and small Fatties, os Angle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfajls, Dinner, or Supper., at
hours molt convenient to thsmfelves —-a cold Collation -.s
regularly kspt for eonvemeccy, the Biliof Fare t» be lyd
at 'rhe Lodging Rooms will be completely and
the ntmoft attention paid :o cleaalinefs, and every other
Ricuardet will bf happy to receive, and
execute the commands of hi' Friends, and the P»blic at
Usre- and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfclf that nothing on M» pari !haUl>e wanting to pre
j: rvethat patronage witji which he has been so diftmgnuh
iV.J\ honored.
i kiladtlphia, AprU IJ.
Canal Lottery,, No. 11. 1
Schemc of a Lottery, authorized by an aiiti.uit'ei
" Ab adt to enable the Prtlident and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Sufquehannah navigation, to raite, by
way of Lottery, the sura of Pour Hundred 'd'huufand
Dollars, for the purpose of completing the works, in
their acts of incorporation mentioned."
Dollarj
I Prize of twenty thousand dollars, 10,003 (
I of ten thousand doilars, ic,ooo
5 of four thousand dollars each, to
be paid to the pofTeffors of the five
numbers firtt out ot the wheel on the lall
day's drawiug, at which time there (hall
not be less thaa 500 numbers undrawn, 10,000 j
10 of two thousand dollars each, 20,000
jo of one thousand dollars each, ao,ooo
43 of live huadred dollars each, 31,500
100 of two hundred dollars each, 10,00-
100 of one hundred dollars each, 10,000
7r20 ot fifty dollars each, 1 i,oo»
29,500 of five dollars each, I47?J°®
30, dm Tickets at ten dollars each. 300,000
Six dollars for each ticket will only be demanded at
the time of fcie.
All prizes shall be paid ten days after the drawing is
finihed, upon the demand of the pofiefforof a fortunate
ticket, fubjcfl to a deduction of fifteen per cent.
Such prizes as are not demaaded within J 2 months
after the Drawing is finifhed, of which public r.otiee
will be given, fhail be conlidercd as relinquilhed lor
the use of the Canal aad-applied accordingly.
At a meeting -of the Prelident and Managers of the
Schuylkill aad Safquehanna Canal Navigation—and
the President and Maaagers of the Delaware and
Schuylkill Canal,
lielolved, That Joseph Ball, John Steinmctz, Sta*-
dilh Fordc, Fraacis Weft, James M'Crea, John Mil
ler, janr. and William Moatuomery be a committee
to arrange and diredl the mode ol diipofing of the
tickets ; which committee shall depolit the money in
Bank, to be carried to the credit of an account to be o
pened for the Lottery.
At a meeting of the Canal Board, held January 16, '97,
Resolved, That the committee for conducting the
Lottery be direAed to commence the jdrawiag oa the
firft day of March next.
Extras from the minutes,
Wm. M. Smith, Secretary.
Jofefl Ball, 1
John Stiinmetx,,
Stcndiflt Fcrde,
Francis IVef., }> Manager!.
James M'Crea,
Jehu Miller, jun. j
ifilliam Mtutgamery, J
Jam. th& f.tf
Qty of Wathiagton.
SCHEME oftbt LOTTERY, Mo. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 e TKK
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & ? eoe
dwelling-houfo, 5 calh 30,000, are $ '
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 25,000 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,000
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 io,oo»
I ditto 5,000 & eafc s>°o» 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000
a do. 5,000 each, are ■*» 10,000
to do. 1, ©go - - 10,000
20 do. 500 - - io,aoo
00 do. 100 - - 10,008
»;5b do. 50 - * lO,BOS
400 do. 15 - 10,000
1,000 do. 29 - 20,000
is,oae do. to - 150,000
16,739 Prizes.
33,261 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets, rhe prize of 40,000 dollars Will be the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but osi
And approved notes, fecurihg payment in »ioher moasy
or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will be reaeived for
any number not lejs than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpeaimen of the pri
, vate buildings to be ereAed in the City of Washington—
Two beautiful deiigns are already lele&ed for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings
it ispropofedtoerecl two centreand four corner buildiags, ;
as soon as poiEble after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventursrs, in
the mannerdifcribed in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
| A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
I the necessary expenses of printing, &c„<«Rnd the fiirplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for theNatianal
University, to be erected within the city of Wafhiagton.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the pickets are
old off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is finifhed ; and any prlzei for which fortunate
numbers at e not produced within twelve months after tfce
c drawing is ciofed, are to be confideted as given towards
the funS for the Ur.iverfity ; it beinj determined to fettle
the whole bufmefs in a year from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real fccutities given for the payment of the Prills,
are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount ot the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen whs by appointment of
1 the late Commifiioners assisted in the management of the
' Hotel Lottery are requeued to undertake thin arduous tafl:
: 1 second time on behalf of the public ; a fuificient num
ia- of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
; jends to a National University and the other federal ob
- jects may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the d'rflerent parti of the
1 Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been font for sale, the public a»e assured that the
r drawing will speedily commente, ami that tke care aad
, castion unavoidably neteifary to infaie a fafc disposal of
th« tickets, has rendered the fnor fufpeofion indifpentable.
a SAMUEL BLODGET.
I Tieiets r.iay be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
i. James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilmen, Boston :
> of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
Cooper's «»
r A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRS T & 2d protof,
u Gin, of 4th proof, in pip s ,
j Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, ia Hhdt
Old Hock, cases of 4© dozen each
Glass Tumblers, in -pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different sizes
Kazlenwts, in sacks
„ Whiting
Copperas ( iuKhd|
i. White Lead i
it Spanifn Brown J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
Elegant Bmffels & Turkey Carpeting,
bor laic by Gcergc Dobiou, No. ij,aouthThird-ilrtci.
Deeeuzbcr 15.
on
—— m;
By Authority. wi
So
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
Siuth Secondjlreet.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
> For railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an AS o*
the Lcgi (laturc of Peanfylvaaia, passed during tne la t
1 feflion, for building a Stooe Bridge over the River
Schuylkill* at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berks. Dollar*
i Prire of 20,009 Dollars - *o,o©«
1 do. of jo,coo do. - - to,ooo
3 do. of 51000 do. ... 15.000 j,|
' 4 do. of 2,000 do. - - B,oco r j
so do. of 1,000 do. - - - 20,000
> 39 do. of 500 do. - • »9's°° g
80 do. of aoo do. - 16,000
c too do. of 100 do. - - 2®,00©
300 do. of 50 ao. - 14,000 p
1 do, of 500 do. to be paid the pofTef-) n
for f the firft drawn no. J a a
C do. of 3,a»0 do. to be paid poffefTors i i < ©oc al
of the tett drawn r,os $ ri
5 <1,400 do. o 15 do. ■ : - 141,00° 0 ,
° B1
r 10,054 Prizes 300,000
19,946 Blank*
e _
j 30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 308,00®
i All Prizes fhal. be paid fifteen days after tne drawing '»
finifhed, upon the demand of a poffeflor of a fortunate
licket, fubjeft to a deduction of tweniy per cent. The r
Drawing will cominenee as soon as the Tickers are difpofco
" of, ot pel haps sooner. of which public notice will be given.
c Plnlip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, Wuliam Hitman, J
Jofepb Hiefler, James Dieiher, Thomas Dundas,
James May, John Otto, John Keim, Danitl Gr&ejf, w
SehajlianMiller, Commissioners. if
Reading, May the 9th, 1796 d
e Tickets ia the Canal Lottery, No. 2, to be had at ;the 2
t . above cfliee, where the earliest information of the draw- t ]
"ing of the Walhington No. 2, and Patterfon'Lottc y s r \
are received, and check books for examination and regif
tering are kept. , u
Tickets in the above Lottery te be had at Mr, Sheri-
dau*s Race-street, John Hay, North Third-ftrcet aad
Henry Swoyer's, German Town. y
January 26 aawtf jj
For Sale, t
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET, 0
:f Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels y
and half barrels '
Ditto Herring aad Mackarel.
Sgnozked Marring in barrels and kags
, Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or single one
Dry Codfifh, from one to fifty kentals c
Fine and coarse Salt 1
Nova-Sootia and French Plaster of Paris, in the stone f
and ground, for maaure and ftuceo-wotk '
December I
CAMILLA, t
Or APi&ure of Youth. t
By the authovefs of Evelina and Cecilia, to be com- r
prised in five volumes, at half a dollar each, payable V
on delivery —Printed at New-York, by Mr. John N
Bull 1
CONDITIONS.
I. Handsome, neat type, perfciftly new, is em- '
ployed.
11. A volume, stitched ia blue paper, is intended 1
to be publilhed every 2 weeks, till the five are com- '
ple'ed ; the firft and fecoad art come to hand, and the ?
third is hourly expected. Subscriptions are received,
and Books may be had of J. OKMROD, No. 41,
Cheinut-flreet-
Mts. D'Arblay (late Miss Burney) the celebrated j
authoress of this inimitable work, needs no eulogy
to add to the laurels Jhe has already acquired in the t
literary world. The strength of imagination and ele- •
" gaaee of style, displayed in Evelina and Cecilia, will '
fufficiently lecommend to every reader of tatte and
f judgment, the perusal of Camilla.
5r It may not bt improper to add, that the Queen of '
• England, after ha\ing perused this interesting publi
cation, presented Mrs. D'Arblay with a thousand
re pounds sterling, as a teftimoay of her approbation of
j S the work.
! Taauorv a? eotf
r> j -
in Lottery and Broker's Office,
y. No. 64, South Sscond trissr.
V —
us ' | 'ICKETS ia the Canal Lottery, No. 1, for sale— a
JL Check Book for enßunation—and prizes paid ip
»!ie late lottery.
rc Check Books kept for examination aad regifteriag, for
T® the City of Washington, No. %, and Pattefon Lotteries,
t£ both of which are now drawing—information where
k® tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete Kft of all the prizes in thS late New
'e Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School* Lottery, for
v " examination.
The fuWcriber foliciti the application of the public
-»> and his friends, who wife to purchale or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
a- 3cc. or to obtain money on depsfit of property.
*,* Also 'X ickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
of sale at Ten Dollars each, wiiiah will be drawn early in
' lc the Spring.
A Wm. Blackburn.
jj e Philadelphia, January «6, 1797. rath
This Day is Publilhed,
By BIOREN u MADAN, at their Printing Office,
et * No. 77, Dock-street, and fold by the principal
B»okfellers iu this City.
The American Annual Register ;
le. Or historical Me.noirs of the United States, for the
1 Year 1796.
of No. 167.
n : D'i'riS of. Pennfylvama, to <a>it :
Be it remembered, that on the 19th day of January
in the Twenty-firft year of tfce Independence of the
United States of America, Bioren & Ma dan of the said
diflriA ha»e deposited in this Office the title of a Book
the Right whereof they claim as Proprietors iu the
words fallowing te wit:
" The Ameri«an Annual Register, or Historical
" Memoirs of the United State®, for the year 1796.
In conformity to thj aft of the Congress of the
United States eatituled " Ah aiS for the encourage
ment ef learning by securing the copies of Maps,
Charts and Bocks, tn the authors and pioprietQrs ef
ftich copies during the time therein mentioned."
Samuel Caldwell,
Clerk Peunfylvania Diflncl.
Ja*u»rr is- 12^4
A Marfufa&oi'y FOR SALE.
A vahiible iOAP aod CANDLfc Minufaflory,, f*Me
io.cunvt-iau. part of the city ; the «'»«» "f-J
on an entirely original coaftrufiion. and buds of '" cbe *
materia]*, and may be fee to work immediately. Mom
who wife co purcbafe, arc retjoefted to apply » c *73>
South Second Street. September 13. t t 1 it
This Day is Publifhsd,
Br 810 RL .V and MA DAN,
And to be Sold at their Printing-OS", tn Dock
ftreet ; by M. Carey, No. 11S. Market-iireet ;
Thomas Bradford, No. 8, Soi.rh Frout-flreet, and
Geor»« Bauglafs, No. %, South I hird-ftreetj
(Price., neatly baunJ., tv)» dollar*)
AN enqjjiß y
Concerning Political Justice^
And it> Influence oa Morals aid Happinefr.
By William GoOWin.
THE reputation of this work is dready well esta
blished in Eijrope—lt is hardly needfary for a* Amt
ricttn editor to fay more than barelyro mention, that
the Enquiry concerning Politieal Jattiec has ever
liace its publication been a favoriteperformanee with
the friends of republican governnrnt. The itile it
pure, nervoHS, and clafiical; the ideas are flrongiy
marked by aH original vein of thinldng ; and, amongst
a multitude of other just and linking parages, the
author's delineation of the peculiar infefrities ml'epa
rablt from the condition of a Kug, rsiy be pointed
out as a most snafterly fpecimentf phi'fophical d:f
quifition. The latell Loudon edition »f this work
fells in this city at four dollars aid an )alf.
January 24 ' djtawavr
Porcupine's Gazette.
Proposals by WILLtAM COBBET r, ippofite Christ
Church, Philadelphia, for pubiiihingi news-paper,
to be entitled
Porcupine's S5 5 Daily idvertifer.
Me tin aks I hear the reader exclaim What i have
we not Gazettes enpugh already ?" Is, and far t«o
many : but those that we havi, are, 1 general, con
duced in such a manner that their grit number, in-
Head of rendering Kline unneteiary, ithe only caufc
that calls for its eftabiilhmcij:. f
The gazettes in tliis country-have dofitmerc real in
jury tuan all its open caeiines ever iti<?r can do. They
mislead the peopie at home aod mi'prelmu them a
broad. It was these vehicles of ftf'on and discord
that entouraged the comities m tht eit to rebel ; it
was they that gave rife to the deprftion of Britain,
by exciting the people to such aits violence against
that nation, as left no room to dot that we were.de
termiaed on war; aa>l it was thf when an accom
modation had been happily ilirred up an
opposition to it such as has witnefTed, and
whioh was overcome by mirechai- These gazettes
it was, that, by reifreprefenting fdifpohtions of the
people, encouraged the French (proceed from one
degree of insolence to another, 'at lift their Minis
ter braves the Prefidont in bis*'*', and a bullying
commander comes and tells us tlh■« only bufmefs is
to seize our veUels, in violatior a treaty, in virtue
ot whiok alone he claims a right-'Uter our ports : and
it Is these gazettes thjt now have impudence to de
fend what their falfehood aad rr"e have produced.
1 fball be told that the peci *re to Mane; that
they are not obliged to read tbab®f*inab!c pablica- I
tions. But they do read the an d thousands wh«
read thctn, read nothing else. iupprefs them it iro
poflible ; they will vomit fortfe :r poison ; it is a pri
vilege of their natures, that W ear. abridge; and
therefore the only mode left 11 Counteract its ciTcifls.
This muS be done, too, iwrsimway. Books,
or periodical publications in form of books, may
be of some service, but are h> means a match for
their flying folios. A. falie-brffcat retv.aini uncomra
di&ed for a month, begins tooeked upon as a truth,
and when the dete&ioa at laakes its appearance* it
is often as nfelefs as that el dodlor who finds his
t patient expired. The only jod of opposition, then,
is to meet them on their o /OKiid ; to set foot to
loot ; difpnte every loch f every hair's breadth;
I fight them at their -own wes, and return them two
blows tor one
. A gazette of this ftarap iat I have long wifiled to
. fee, but I have wilhed ajut&ed it in v.i.n. Indig
-1 nation at the fupiner.efs ofert hai at got the
j better of all difSdencc iH twa capacity, and hai de
termined me to encoanteiafk. People have i.eari'
f one lide long caough ; tljail now hear the minf-
CONi'NS.
1 1. Porcupine's GszettH be of the usual
f and thefubfeription Eighllari a year, to belaid it
the expiration tf ea -h h*ar. • /
a. Advertisements w inserted at h*ff the usual
- price, which will alwayeqairecl in ready money.
3. The Censor, contg thoiie pieces from the
gazette that may appearth preserving in a more
portable form, with fmpiifications 'and amend
a menN as time may fife to, shall be publilhed
„ mouth fwtiticd to a copy r
delivered with his end of the month,
. 4. If a fufgeient na of fubfsribers be obtained
s the £rfi number of th ; ctte shall appear on, or be
d fore the jth of Marck
n N. B. A fubfcriptrfok is bow open at my shop,
1. oppolite jfestlemtnin the coun
ir try, who wifli to fub> are requeued to fend their
names.
ic Subscriptions are t# Bo#ob by Mr. James White,
c, bookseller ; ,it Sales Mr. Debeny, p»ft-ma(ter ;
s, at New-Havea by Jeers, baokfeller ; at Newbu
ry.poirt, by Mr. £.1, bookseller; at Ne.v-Yoik,
•r by Mr. S. ;at Baltimore, by Mr,
' n G. Hill, bookfelleChefter-town, Marylaad, byr
Mr. James Arthuft-mafier ; at Eafton, do. by
M». Greeabury ] at Freder ck-town, do. by
Messrs. Isaac and Meatz -, at Richanond, Virg.
by Messrs. Pritch»d Bavidfon ; at Norfolk, by
Messrs. Rainbowlannah ; and at by
Mr. Yonag, bo*.
! Jan. a|. eeiot.
al
Clcand Watches.
L ES: and PRICE,
M>. 79, MT-STRSET, PWLADEIPUIJ,
HAVE IMBED, by the late arrivals from
London, a laiortment of fVARRA NT E D
ry IVA •/'C HE jG3ing of horizontal, eapp'd aad
he jewel'd Gold hes, with fecocds, of fuparior
id workmanlhip Jgaoce ; alfb capp'd aad jewel'd
ak and plain Gojshes ; capp'd & jewdl'd, capp'd,
he fcconds, day month, and plain Silver Watches ;
eight day &tr Clocks; elegant French Clocks
:al with raarbk: ; eight day and thirty hoar, bras*
works, icc. *
he Decembef796. dam
;e-
>s,
ef PRINT BY JOHN FENNO|
—No. 119 —
hesnut-street.
Dollart par Annum.}