of tire and Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1590 j
•" <-JT
SALES BY PIO 1
Stated Sales
For DRf GOO OS.
r FoKcnoon—Edward Fox, No. g6,
fniith Front-llrcet,
' j Afternoon—FootrA*n & Co. No, 6j
C South Front street.
Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
tr3 Auction, No. fouth Front-ltreet.
j Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C High-ftr^et.
j N °'"
Thurfjay \ F" r «n O -n-£dward Fox.
J t Afternoon—John Connelly,
p ■ , ) Forenoon—Williara Shannon.
5 Afternoon—'John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
For Freight or Charter,
the good mig
S U K E Y,
_vH Isaac Vredenburg, Master ;
NOW lying at Clifford's whart.and in compleat
crdrr tn receive a cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain en board, or
John Siyrin,
No. 81, Arc'h-ftreet.
WIIO HAH FOR SALE,
2000 wt. of doable refined Saltpetre
600 wt. of F F Gun Powder
300 barrels of Ht.rrinjjs
50 bufheh of Timothy Seed
150 cafe>of Claret, firifc quality
Andaqaantity of Sherry Wine,
pt. 2"). - dtf
HAVANNA SUGARS,
FOR SAI P,
1400 boxeß and ciflcs prime white H*«n
na SUGARS,
On board the Ihip Hamburgh Packet, Silas
Swain, Master, now lying at Marcus Hook.
For terms, apply«° Capt. Swain, on board, to
Capt Samufl Smith, in Front, near Wal
nut street, or to
Philip Nictlin, & Co.
Who offer the said Ship
Hamburgh Packet
WrWfl Fnr SALE or CHARTER.
She is 3to tons register, coppered to the bends,
fails remarkably faft, and «an be ready to re
ceive a cargo in a few days.
Kept. 2J. d»w
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing from on board the
Brig A.iVive, William Williams, Master,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Bal£ by
Jfhu Hollingfworth bf Co.
Wilmington, Sept. 21. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
and the brig GAYOSO, are
ilfofor Sale or Charter, and
now ready to receive a cargo
on lioartl at Wilmingtpn. Anply as above.
For Savannah,
( ai *^ n s
X SWIFT PACKET,
Patrick Oribbin, Master,
Now lying opposite the mouth
of Fiankford Creek, has handsome accommoda
tions for pafTt-ngers, and will fail on or about
the jft cf.O<f\ober.
For freight or paff<ge apply to the master on
board, or of the fublertbcrs at Frankford, 5 1.9
miles from Philadelphia.
Nalbro & J. Frazier.
Frnnkford. Sepr. 18. HtlftO.
For HAMBURGH,
>««e. y I 'HE Copper Bottomed Ship
L FAVORITE, John i
Thc,mp ' 0 ", Mister, now at
® ri s' lt ' s wharf, and will be rea-
in on Monday next,
part of ber cargobeing engaged -
and reidy to go on board. The (hip is (o well
kndwn, that it is needless to describe her. She ,
is now in compleat order. For Freight or Pas
sage, please to apply at Mr Jeremiah Warder'a
Compting House, No. ij, North Third street, '
or to the Master on bord.
August jo.
For SALE,
On board the said Ship, Swedilh Iron, afTorted
Hollow and Window Glass, Dcmyjohns, Wrap
ping Paper for Sugar Refiners, Rugs of 1 k 1
Quality. Please to apply as above.
wf&m4w
FOR SALE; - ~
BRETAGNES in cases
German Checks in do.
Cambrick
Plattillas
Oznabrijfs
Gold and fllver Watches
Window Glass 10 by 8
Glass Tumblers in cases
Licfeed Oil in csfks, &c. &c.
George Pennock,
107, Hi?h-Strc)t.
July J. 3
jin elegant House in Arch Street. \
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and elegant house at the Corner of Arch and 1
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
■and one dining room—the largest is 31 feet by !
a6 —and two are so conn«<sled by folding doors 1
js to make but one. Also, five bed rooms, be- 1
-fides sin the garret, well finifhed for servants. 1
There are stables and a coach house, with evry 1
.convenience for a fan ily. Enquire at No. 29,
in North Sevyith street, or at No. 218, Arch
.Stfeet.
Aug. 15. 2au'3 w.' j
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufaflured as usual,
Ginger and fepper ground
Shelled or Peat 1 Barley
Biiiiadclphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Button Ale t
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled, 1
«r by the pipe, quarter-cafit or gallon—fultable
for exportation or home consumption 1
For Salt by
John Haii'orth.
No. 98 south Front ftre»t.j a
fHt.IJDELPHIA: FRIDAY IVENP-7G, OCTOBER 13,1797.
T«jj£e Sold, at Public Vendue,
before disposed 'lff at private file)
|\N Friday, the firft of December ne*t,'at fix
V-J® o'clock in the evening, ac the Merchant*' Co
ffee House, it» Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Vn\t
9 Hundred atraTfitri'y Nwie Hundred acres of LAND
now or late in the County of Waflvnj»ton, andCorr
? mo«rweakh of Pennsylvania, and ' n the waters of
Frefli and Wbeelin« Creeks and leu Wile Run.—
t 1 hefe Lands arc fertile and well timbered, and were
. j»atenteed early in except 3700, as or therea
# bouts, which were patented in 179 a. One fourth
of the purchase money (o be paid at the time of sale,
for the residue a credit of one, two and three months,
will be given, on interelk and good feturity.
October 6. 3*wtS
To be Sold Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private sale)
ON Friday, the firlt day of December, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
Mouse, in Philadelphia, Twenty Six Thousand Se
van Hundred and Eighty acres of LA.ND, in the
State of New-Yoik, between the northern bounds
of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehanna, now, or late,
in the townftiips of Hamdcu and and coun
ty of Montgomery One fourth of the purchase
money is to oe paid at the time of sale ; for iheie
fidue a credit of one, two, and three months wtll be
givfen, on interest and good security.
06fco£te 6- giwtS
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stpgt starts from the vern,
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, tviry TuefJai, Tburfuay, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the Homing ; arrives at Do
ver the lirft day, at Snowhilt the fefond day, at
Ndrthamptan Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day pa'fengcrs find
a lafc and eomfoxtabk. packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A {rattrr leaves Narfotkfbr RarthamptM-ferrj,
cjes-j Tuttday, 'l'fc«>-f'.'ajr ami Sat lid.-.y, and tilt
Jtagc l'tarts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wodnefday<and Friday jlputs up at Sn&w
Hill lhalirft night, at Dover the zd night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is Jo mite» less than on any fuge route
between those place*.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietor!
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
paflienger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in Amorica.
August 11. dim. eotf.
Window Glass,
Of Jiqgerior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
the City—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From Bby 6t019 by 14,
By the Tingle Box or Quantity, may be had at the
{lore .of the Subfcriberi, corner of Arch and Front
ftreet.
'James C. & Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, Juneq,
Red Port Wine.
Jufl arrived, by the brig Iris, capt. Rhodes, from
Oporto,
Red Port Wine in pipes,hhds. and quarter calks
io ewt. Cork, for f*le by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
July >i. 5
Will be Landed, ~
Front onboard the (kip AAive', Capt.Blair,from
Hamburgh,
to bales white Ruflia clean Hemp
2 caiks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thorn its Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth ftcect, No. 34.
June it. f
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chests of a superior quality—Mfo, |
100 do. of Hyl'on,
Imported in the WooJrop Sinu, and for sale
the ft»bfcriber, corner of Second and Pine
street. ,
C. Haight.
June »i. eotf
Cedar Shingles.
THE fubferiber ha« a quantity of 3 feet Cedar
Shingles of a fuparior quality, for sale at 13
dollars p»r thousand.
William Hallow ell,
No. 193 North Third-Jlreet.
July 27. eoiit
Imported in the Jhip Pigsu,
And for file by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front-street,
v Hyson
Hyson Skin
Toung Hylon t
Imperial J
April 20. ■ eot/
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Amsterdam and Hamburg, 'andforfale by
B. y J. Bohlen, J
A large ajfortment of fine French Cambrics, 1
Platillas Kufiia indDutch fail cloth '
Bnttannias Writing, port, and print- (
Rouanes ing paper '
Brown Holland , Dutch calf Ikins '
Checks and flripes Prime madder
Ticklenburgs Shell'd Barley
Oznahurgs Looking glafTes 1
White (heetings Hollow glaft ware (
Diaper Slates 1
Brown rolls Coffee mills i
Umbrellas Brass kettles c
Hair ribbons Scythes and straw knives 1
Black and whitelaces Tovs assorted in boxes t
Belt Holland Gin in pipes c
London partioular Madeira Wine
Juiy a - fn&thtf
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto ditto Claret in cases *
Just received, and for Sale by
Handle Iff Leech. j
41- 2awtf
MRS. G RATTAN
INFORMS her friends,and the public in general,
that her house, No. 192, Market-Jlreet, will con
tinue open during the fieknef*.
Board Lodging in a separate room, ten
dollars, iu a double room, eight D9llars'.
For the convenience of thefc gentleman who
have not their amilies in town, Mrs. Osatt'an
will receive gentlemen to dine at half a dollar
a day. 29. —dt
By John Fenno, N° 119 Chefnut Street.
Choice St. Croix Sugar .and Rum
Coffee
< wadeirajiad TenerifFe Wjpe
h. • i'or Sa e by *"
' James Tm-d,
No. —fourth-ftr«et.
■ _OA.6. J, w
. • CUSTOM<HOUStC~~
: Philadelphia-, Sept. lid, 1797.
• THE Me-chants who at this time prefer hav
-1 ing their veflTeli and Merchandize entered and
1 cleared at Chester cr Marcus Hook, —are here
by notified, That in compliance with their ile
fire, and upon a full conviction that the mea£ure
will be mutually beneficial to them' and to the
United States. The colledtor of the cufioms has
made arrangements to eftahlifh for some tiir.e
branches of the cuitom-houfe at those places,
where every accommodation in his power will
be given to the merchants. dlw
TO BE SOLD, ~
■And immediate pojjefjioa given,
A Convenient well finiihed Brick Tenement,
with a cook house and other out houfes,fitu
ated in a pleaiant part of the borough of Wilming
ton, iij the State of Delaware—'The lot of ground
has forty feet frout on Weft-Qreet, and estends
through the square to Pafture-ftrcet, op which U
erecled a liable aud'earriajre honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. jo.
Lately Publilhed,
fn m:; ro). 8 vo. (price one dollar in boards) fold
by WILLIAM YOUNO, corner of Second and
Chefnut flrccts,
A Colleftiou Papers on the fubjeft of
Billious Fevers, preTaleut in the United
States for a few years past.
Aihitu irxJSSr**,
C.v>otiUii,L<l. ters fro.* . .. h ....
Buel, 1 aylor, Rimf:iy, MntlroOf Keyilolds, Mitch
ell, 00 contagion, &c. See. (
STt Ir.
City Commijp.outrs Office,
Augurt 29, 1797.
IN pursuance of an Ordinance of the Select and
Common Councils, passed the aid day of May lalt.
Propofala in writing will be received hy the City
Commiffiooers for one month from the lit of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for one
year to commence the firft day of January next, the
fallowing public property of the city—
The wharf and landing on Vine Street,
Also on Saflafras, \
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Araw Bridge, with
the Scale and Filh Houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets. «
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as fliall be occupied by any buildings erect
ed for the use of the Colle&or of the Tolls, or be
necefTary for the toll-gates.)
• A "g- 3 3tawim.
LOST,
ON the PafTyunk Road, between the Bl*e BaM
and the city, a Fowling Piece, with a brass
barrel and silver fight ;> on the plate of the butt are
th« letters " Jamaica', 99"—and on the barrel
near the lock i% London" and the Tower (lamp.
Whoever will return the l aid pieccto John Bennard,
atthefign of the B'ue Ball on the Paffyunk Road,
or the office ps this Gazette, (hall receive a reward
of Four French Crowns,
Sept. 12. *3t
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an a£t of Congress of the
Uiiited States of America, passed at Phila
delphia, the 18th day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ti«s on Carriages, for the conveyance of perfo V
which shall be kept by or for any person, for his
or her own use, rrto let out t»> hire, or for the
conveyance of pificrgcrs, the feroral duties and
rates following, to wit :
For and upon every Coach, 15 (iols.
upou every Chariot,lldols.
»pon every Pod Chariot, 12 dols.
upon every Poll Chaise, i» dols.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top,
9 dols. •
upon every Coachee,9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having pannelwork
above, with blinds, glalfes or curtaks,
9 dols.
uponjaur wheeled Carriages, having fra
mca polls and topi with ilcel fpriiigs, 6
dols.
upon four wheeled Ca: t»a jes.with wood-
iron springs or jacks, 3 dols.
upon Curritles with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with cops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel topcarriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel cacriages, with iteel or
iron springs, 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 1 dols.
upon every " )ur wheeled carriage, having
framed pods and tops, and retting up-!
on wooden fpa'ri, 2 dols.
The Collectors of the Revonue for the firft Sur
vey of the DiftriA of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September a'xt, for
the purpose of receiving the duties on Carriages, at ,
Germantown ; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efq. ,
in the County of Montgomery; and at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. iu the County of Bucks ; .
of which all persons polft Hcd of fuck Carriages are
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled fpirituotis liquors, that licences will be grant- '
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the bufi*
ness of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and on* li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in lsfs quantities than 20 gallons, at
the fame time and atthe fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorifedt® grant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpe&or of the Revenue of the firft fui
vey of tllfe Diftri& of Pennsylvania.
Office of Infpe&ioß at . .
Germantow, 12th Sept. f 79T* J
IMPORTED t
In the (kip America, James Ewing, matter, from t
Hamburgh, c
Brown Hollands v
White Platillas j
Ticklenb»*rgß
Coatfe Linens
Tapes
Looking G'aflfes 7 • r
Glass Tumblers J
FOR SALF. BY
George Pcnnock. f
Augufi 14. jaw
n To be Let, at a moderate Rent,
~T HE principal of a HOUSE, within a
1 ihort dilance <>t the Colfee-h- use, whii.h has
been occupied frr the last four months, confining
i'f 1 good dining roiMn an J parlour, two bedrooms
and adrellintrroo-i, two £ - ki-clicn,
vault and cellar, nil in excellent ar.aer, f& for the
immediate reception of a iamll I'amHy. No#* need
apply but thole who are rtfpfii.'AahJo and
Enquire at the office of this Gazette.
Otilobct 9. dtf .
Mr. L AILSON,
WITH an intention to render/ervice, and un^c
e eeive those Performers, who during hisabfencc Mr.
e Jaymond has thought proper tp engage, thinks-it
3 would be w/ong in him not td inform tholVthac
e are engaged, that itij» withou his approbation,and*
i $ that he will not be in any way anfrverable for Mr.
11 Jaymond's cngagtjmonrs.
PHILIPPE LAILSON.
Alexandria, Sept. 15, 1797. 6j.
" THE MAYOR'S~OFFICE~
IS KrfPT, FOR TIIE PRESEMT, AT TUB
CU V llall.
Sept P.
The Philadelphia, Atfwn, and 7 uckerton
' MAIL STAGE.
rIE proprietors beg have 'to inform the public, that
they have ejiablijbed a Stage between Philadelphia,
Atfon, Batfio, Hampton, Speedwell, and Martha Fur
nace, IVading River fitting mill, and of Tucl
erion, in Nezv Jersey, to go ones a ivcelt, and are pi ovi
:1 ded ziith good hotfes, a comfortable carriage, and a care
-1 ft I dtiyer, for the conveyance of. the mail,paffrngers, and
goods. 4 The Stage will Jiart evert ThurfJay, at 10'
f o'c/osi, A. M. from Mr. Daniel Cfpers Perry, and
J lodge that night at Joel BJlmc t, at Longano. ins • ana'
on on Friday, at 6« * clock y P. M. arrive at CilcL E
van/j, rnknpir, Jm '/
■vellets y and •ztfjere are commodious and fafc boats
pravieieJ'to couvty passengers to William
- ringten s house, on Tucker's Jfland, adjoinining the At
la.itic, where are good accomuioaations, and a convenient
place to bathe ; the sportsman xuho lujjbes to regale h 'anfclf
with fowling andfjhing, may at ttits place be highly gr a -
1 tifed, there being at abnof every season of the year fowl
' ati dffh in abundance.— The Stage on its return, farts
from the aforefaid C. Evans's in Tu chert on, every 'Turf
day, at 6 o'clock, A. M. breakfajls at John Bodi.ie s, at
IVading River Bridge, lodge that night at Longacoming,
and at I o'clock, P. As. on Wednesday, arrive at the
aforefaid Cooper s Ferry. It is prefutned that no route of
an equal dijlance ivill be less ex pen five, or furnifh the tra
veller -with a greater variety of amusement, as he ivill
not only have a pleasant fail to the atlantic from Tucker
ton, but have the euriojity of feeing on the road ttither a
number of capital furnaces and forges, and one flitting
mill, in complete order, and at work ; gentlemen, too, who
are owners, or factors, of any of the aforefaid iron works,
are foliated to encourage and support this sage (by which
they can be so well accommodated J the continuance of which
will much depend on their aid. The rates of
and baggage are as follows : For a poffenger frcm the
aforefaid Daniel Cooper's Ferry to Tuckerton, including
14 lb. of baggage, Two Dollars ; for way passengers
per mile, Four Cents— 150 lb. of b.tggage equal to a paf
fenfrer. Poflage of letters, nenfpapers, \sc. will be
agreeably to law.
N. B. The mail crosses from the Old Ferry.
THOMAS WARDLE Co.
Tuekerton, Sept. aB. Off.s. —laivtf
To be Sold,
And immediate pofleffioß given,
THAT elegant feat, called BLOOMSBURY.thc
residence of the late John Cox, Esq. with a
bout 50 acres of Land, fitiiate on the Delaware, ex
tending from the raouth of AiTaiipickcrock, to Tren
ton, ferry. The nianlTon houfc it a handionic well
conftruded brick building, 50 t>y 40 feet, contain
ing four room* on each floor, with excellent cellars,
and a two story brick kitchen. Among the out
buildings are a rtone coach houfc and ftibles, fuf
ficierit t<* contain fix carriages and ten horses, and '
a Hone cow house, i s .j>v/ardsof 100 feet in length.
There is a!fo a £one farm house with corn cribs,
waggon houfc, &c. &c. The whtfle of the pren.ll- '
fespropofed to he fold.with thkfeat, from their situ
ation and improvements, are such as to be worthy
the attention of any gentleman wishing to re tire
from-the city. There are also about 25 acres ad
joining the which will be d : vided so as to
accommodate the purchafert. Also, 100 acres ad-
joining the tpwn lots on the eall fide of the flrcet
leading from Trenton to Lamberton, which will
be fold together or in lr t>, as may beit suit the pur
chnfier, and 230 acres of woodland, two mile* front \
the above land, which will also be divided if re- \
quired. The tcrmi of payment will be made easy,
and an indifputablc title given. For further parti- (
cularsenquire of Mrs. Cox, No. 144, South Fourth (
street, Philadelphia, John Stevens, Efq Hoboc- *
ken, Mathias Barton, Esq. of Lanca&e/, or the t
fubferiber at Trenton.
MASKELL EVVING.
Trenton, Sept. 25, 1797.
Sept. 30. dtf.
At the Federal Blast Furnace, |
In Carver—for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling (
Mills. 1
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THEIR superiority conjijft in being free from t
liples and honey-combed plates, ivbicb are com- c
monlf found in rotters cajl in sands or clay c
moulds. Tbefe patent rollers are cajl in iron 1
moulds, pre-vioujlf, heated, and ivill be found to *
be more dense, solid and durable than any rollers a
heretofore used. Another important advantage '
they, have over others, is, that the necks require J
no turning, but are immcdaitely fit for life, and
from their accuracy, run with less friftion, and v
require less water to make them perform their
work. 7bey may be bad by application to the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Good'
•win, or of ,MeJJirs. Thatcher aid Hayiuard [
BoJlon, Jug. 31. Sept. 19. §f>t- t ;
This Day is Ptiblifked, t:
BY MefT. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric % and the
other Booksellers, r v
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents, a
Elegant y printed on H'cvr paper, and Hot- a
Pnjfed, "
By John Thoinpfon, ,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF f(
The Constitutions
Of the /everal States with each other, and with e .
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables, p
the prominent features of eaeh Cocftitution, and h
clafling together their most important provisions, j
under the several heads of aduiißiftration ; with u
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South Carolina, fe
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the si
United States. ■ ai
Dedicated to th» People of th« United States. u
N. B. A few Cooi-'s printed oti aa Uiferior pa
per, at 3-4thsof a dallar.
Febriiarjr (t *>wf
■Thomas Hkrman JLeirm.u*
a North fifth ftrect, corner of Korth alky, No.
" HAS Foa SALE,
R l/XCELI.ENT red Bouroeaux Wine incases and
'* " j boxes, fij yean old
White Graves Wtiic in ci!k* <
s 'retiiiWi t
>1 Ruifa Saifciotfe
•» Ravens Duck
Bag Lineir
Hcffmns
Diaper and Table Cleth
Empty tags
'- Coraaiou Genaan Cloth
11 abortmjnt of black coloured Ribbon*
t fine German Laces
c About twelve tons Russia clean Herap
d • Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family use
Window Glafg Aug 39 —-*9iHvr
THIS DAY WAS
And for sale by ?HQ MAS DOBSON, at the
Stone House, Nol. 41, south Second street,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
OonOOLng of a variety of Mifeellancous Pieces for
the inftrwdiao and amusement of YQUNG PER
SONS—Six Volumes bandfomely printedand bound
up iu two volumes, price Two Dollars.
t The vitiety and excellence of thefo pieces are
, such, that the book Heed* only to be known tcj be
. univerfallv efleenied one of the most valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the h&pde of young
. ptfrfons.
" Delightful taflc tp rear the tender thought,
■ i o teach the you n# idea how tu ihoot,
' i'o pour the ftelh inilrudion o'er the mind,
! To breathe th' enlivening spirit, and to fix
' The generous purpose in tl.c giowmg bread."
THOMSON.
August 24. E.l W£4W
isVliblished,
By THOMAS DOBSON, at the Stone Houft,
1 No. 41, south Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between fcveral Tcung Lcdiet,on improving and in
terelling fubje&s.
Translated from t«e Dutch of Madame de Canthn
with alterations and improvements,
P ri/ited onfne paper, and neatly bound y
Price one duliar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Remances, painting
tales ®f extraordinary distress, or of drfperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul,"- and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book cnmai forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, becaufc
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Ftmalt
charaSer is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and presents examples of real and attainable excel
lence. 1
The publiQier was so much pleased with the
sal, that he was persuaded he fliould do a pjcafing
ferviee to the community by fending it in o eircu
lation. August 24 —mw4w
7 0 Majlers and Pilots bringing np Vcffelt
from Foreign Ports to this Cilj.
"\T7Hereaj sundry infringements have lately been
V V made on the laws of this state for the pre*
venting pestilential or infcftioui diseases, either
from ignorance or inattentioa thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publiE) the following ex
tracts from the laws of atd April, 1794, 7th and
Bth fe&iont.
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794.
Ext raff cf an atl for securing the city and part
of Philadelphia from the iatroduSion of pefli.
lenlial arid contagious diseases.
Sect. 7: And be it further enaiSed, that every
matter or captain of any (hip ot vessel coming from
fca (vefiels actually employed n the ccafting trade
excepted) and bounij to any port or place within
the jurifdi<aion of Peanfylvania.fcall cause his (hip
or vessel to be brought toanchor.or otherwise flay
ed in the stream of the river Delaware, oppsfite to
the Health-Office on Btat«-IlUnd aforefaid, and
there to remain until he (ball hflve duly obtained a
certificate or bill of health from the Refidetil fhy
f.cian. And it, previaufly to obtaining such certi
ficate or bill of health, any master or captain (hall
fuller hisfljp or yeffel to approach nearer tban the
laid Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
(hat! land, cause orfuffer to be landed, or brought
on (hore, at any place or port within this Corr.-
ntbnwealth, or at any othor port or place, with the
intent ol being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any pcrfon or persons, or any goods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving such bill of health
o- certificate, he (hall ncglr&or refufe to deliver
the sam» to the Health-OlHrer, such master or cap
tain (hall forfeit at.a piy, f 9c each and every such
offence, the fumof five uundred dollars.
And ihe captain or master of every (hip or ves
sel (ball fend a fafe and commodious boat to bring
the physician on board, and in all in like manner
convy him back to the Health-Office, after he has
concluded *is official examination ; And while hp
is making such examination, or in cafe any subse
quent examination by the Heal h Officer or Con
futing Physician, agreeably to the directions of
thii aiS, the master or captain (hall expoie or caulu
to be exposed to thefearcl) of the Resident Phyfi
cian,or of the Health Officer and Consulting PhyG
ciaa (as the cafe may le) each and every part of the
(hip or vessel, and (hall prd'ent to h:> view each
and every person or perior.s on board thereof, and
and fnall also true and fatisfa&ory answers malcp
to all such questions as the Resident Physician, tcc.
at the time of examination lhall afe relutive'to the
health of any port or place frem which the (hip or
vessel failed, or has (ince touched at—the uauibec
of persons on board when the (hip yr vessel entered
on her voyage—the number of pprfons that hive,
(ince been landed or taken 011 board, and when
and wharerefpedlively—what persons on board
f they have been during the voyage, or (hall, at
the time of examination, be infc&cd with any pes
tilential or contagious dileafc—and what is thepre
fent state and condition rl the persons on board
with rcfpedl to their heaftli or diseases. And i£
any master or captain (hall refufa to expose as afore
aid, to the search of any of the officers aforefaid,
n if he (hall conceal any Jtck perjita y or in any other man
ner deceive the proper officers aforefaid in Lis aaCvitrt,
uch captain or master, for every such ofi'ecce, lhall
forfeit and pay the sum of five hundudd dolt
LAKS.
Sect. 8. And if nay person or persons whatso
ever (thoßefident Physician, &e. excepted) lhall
go on board any vessel, before the mailer thereof
has received a certificate of health in the manner
directed, every person so 9finding, (hall pay the
um of OKt HITNDK6JD DOLLARS.
IF beingabfolmelyneceffarythat the foregoing
fesions (hould be punctually complied witn, the -
fubferiber, in compliance with his duty, mall ex
a rigorous observance of the (anje, cr eMe l>e
under file neeeffity ot putting the laws in force.
M M. Ai.LKN, lieallb Officer of the
P*rf *r I'biUiLlpbia.
July 14. . 4j\r
[Volume XIIfrom the Fap,mer's Weekly Museum,
, & f' *1
FROSi the shop of
Mess, colon & spondee.
The Sun and the Bats,
A FABLE.
' rrs tells how certain bats.
In a dark hole, like Democrats,
Held a fraternal club ;
And < hot'e a president and clerk,
And f(j#?chified, and the jlark,
Gave the fraternal hug.
C;tlut, cit ow!, cit mole, was there ;
Cit beet e join'd Che circle ;
Citirog, eittoad, to them repair,
And cunning cit, mud turtle.
iiach came a? he inclin'd to ;
For why ? This fame society
Was fclf-created, do you fee, >
And each might a member be, J
And come if he'd a mind to.
And now they mingle white and black,
And hug and kiss, protest and chat ?
Add -ess, remor.ftrate, vote their whims.
And foream, like noisy jacobins^
'Gainfl animals of quality ;
Tiiev vote the eagle and tbe j;roufe, ~)
The lion bold and creeping mouse, ?•
"The whale and miny water lolife, j
Born to one tteft equality.
Nem Con tlisy vote, that government
Shoiild spring frem them with free eenfent,
With all its proud projeittles f
That law s arid rights, and dignity;
Anrf ths. Slate's high authority,
All Sprung from them, the reptilei.
Lav\ 3.they ftyl'd governmental tricks,
Made for mean staves, not frecboj'n cits i
And voted one and all, that they
Wonld no fuyh tyranny obey, *
As fprmig from mean allegiince ;
And hftly, these fame cßHaing elves,
Shunning the light, purblind tlietnfi^lve!,
Voted the fun a grievance.
Marching in his merid'an height,
Arrayed in royal robes of light,
Pouring through planetary femes,
Jk-r.evolence from all his beams,
Difpeufing heat, light, life and food.
On rarth, in air, and ptopled flood,
Gilding with joy the jocund days,
Of million* sporting in his rays ;
The sun—whose high good hreeding (hines,
On dunghills, and on diamond mines ;
Oft Britifli strength and English riches ; v
And sovereign people without breeches ;
On yankee fair with rnideft charms,
And Ta lien with naked arms j
The fun—who through a cranny spy.'d,
The little rage of demo pride,
Then fmil'd contempt on their ill nature,
As Adams smiles with dignity,
At an infusing French decree,
Or blackguard piece in Bache's paper. t
Thus fmil'd the felar president,
As through the ecliptic states he went,
And heard these demos hiss and cr4ak, *
And saw them flutter, crawl and vote,
• And yell their democratic clarion ;
He saw, tinrnov'd for oft he'd seen,
Gnats, flics,and hugs buz in his beam.— '
And oft his rays had pafs'd o'er carrion;
He fmil'd, and thus addreis'd the club ;
, " Ye loathsome cits of dirt and mud,
Come forth, and view ray cheerful
If jour weak eyes ca* bear the blaze ;
Come view aloft, each grovling foul,
Where my united planet) roll;
Count, if you can, one single star.
From nearest Mars to Herfehell far ;
Whose light, whose heat, and influence dread,
Springs not from me their federal head ,
Then view this joyous eaYth, which seems
To turn rejoicing in ipy beams ;
Then view this land which gave you birth,
The favourite I'pot of all the earth j
See where the broad Atlantic laves
Your fliores with riches on its waves ;
From where the hardy son» of Maine
Eifti treasures from the oozy main,
To the fartheft verge of federal foil,
Where Georgia's woolly patriots toil:
See commerce ply her feathering oars,
Her t road fails whiten all your lheres :
See rustic life her treafnre yields, 1
See latfghing labour deck your fields,
While buxom health revives the plain,
Flushes each cheek, swells every vein ;
See countless rivers roll their tides,
Seebufy "hamlets spot their fides,
Where fociallife lights up its fires,
Religion points her holy spires ; '
lnduftry takes her patient Hand,
And law, and peace, walk hand in hand."
Know then ye envious Amis 1 my beams
Shed all the bliss through all these scenes,
I give to commerce all her gales,
1 raise tht wind which swells her fails ;
1 smile, and earth her treafurc yields,
In rich luxuriance, o'er your fields ;
I raise the mist which feeds the ftre;m,
I deck its banks with livelieli green ;
I tint the buxom check of health,
I give your eountry all its wealth;
Should I resign my power, the world,
Like France, would be in ruin hurl'd.
While all the good resound my praise,
And bless my power with grateful lays ;
Shall I, because such fools as you,
A famous, purblind, dirty crew ;
Shail I, because you pertly sue,
Dtftroy the good to flatttr you ?
The only vengeance I (hall take,
For all your democratic prate,
I«this—while Bats and Demos whine,
I'll smile, and more refulgent shin;.
moral.
The President of the United States, is adv'fti
to resign. TBache'sAurora.]
My mind it prepared, without hesitation, to
lay niyfef under the mojifolemn obligations tofup
port the government of the United States to the
utmtji of my power
[President's Speech.]
The Health-Office
IS removed to the City-Hall, and is kept open
•i;ht and day, where persons having bufinifs may
apply. Wm. ALLEN, Health-Officer.
Sept. 4- <itf
NOTICE.
THE Offices of the Department of Way are for
the prtfcnt removed near to the Falls of the Scuyl
kill, on the Ridge Road.
Sfptconlvr 4. 4tf
N O T I O E.
ALL persons indebted to the estate of John
Striker, late of Tinnecum TmiTifhip,
Buck's County, are requeued to pay off their
tcfpe<£)ive debts ; and thofr having any
mands agsinfl said eflate, arc desired to briilg in
their accounts, to
JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN,
MALLET P"£VSILT, 5 tors.
Sept. 28. i«fi2W4w
X]\)t dffa^ttte*
PHIL A D E L PHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, October 13.
Total of burials for 24 hours, ending ytjler
day at noon.
Grown Persons. Children*
Christ Church X O
Aflociate Church I X
Friends' fIE" o I
Free Quakers' ' 1 o
Swedes' X I
German Lutheran 1 o
i q
City Hospitals go
' ' jjflfc?'' 14 I
* Six from tbr cHy and fuiarhs.
he number of deaths on the xith of Oflober
1793, was ill.
The Commissioners for alleviating the
didrtrfltfß of the citizens, &c. have received
since last publication, the following dona
tions, viz.
From sundry inhabitants ofl Dolt. cts.
Mount Holly, and citi- (
zens of Philadelphia, now f" 3 co
in and about there J
Conrad Hanfe 20
F.lifha Gordon io
Cash j
Isaac Austin (additional) 20
John Coburn (Rigger) 20
George, SchlolTer 50
Thomas and John Clifford 50
Chris. Marshall (additional) 60
John Rofs 100
Cash re
Do.
Afheton & George Humphreys 50
Bickhara & Reefe 60
Redmond Burns 25
Thomas Briggs 20
David Jackson 20
Sharp Delany xoo
Wm. Sttifom 200
Ellifton & John Perefigr"" 100 _J
Charity Termons preached at 1
* Germantown, by Dr. Blair > 422 91
and Mr. Abercrombie j
Thos. W. Francis 100
Eliz. Dawfon 2
,Wm. Shcaff 100
Levi Hollingfworth & Son 50
Donations received by the")
committeee of the North- > 30
em Liberties J
Certain citizens in and about Trenton, viz.
Wm. Innes v 30
Joseph Higbee 50
Robert Rainey 20
John Harrifon 20
Joseph Brown 25
D. C. Claypoole 20
Michael Roberts jo
Samuel Baker 20
David Jackson, jun. 10
Wm. Innes, jun. ro
Philip M'Laughlin 8
John Lindfay 4
John Patton 2
Cash 2
Esther Cox 24
Ebenezer Cowell 2
Mary Cowell 3
Joseph Haberfham 1 e.
Cash 5
James Thorn 1
Cash 3
Olivia Sproat 5
Timothy Pickering 25
Samuel Boys 10
Ebenezer Hazard 20
From widow Taylor & son, Strawberry
alley, 100 loaves of bread.
William Zane (per James Oldden) 40
bushels of potatoes.
Of New Jersey, 4 do.
Joseph Tatnale, middlings.
James Jack, 3 tierces of rice.
John Bedford, 3 sheep, 8 bushels of~po
tatoes, 100 loaves of bread, and 49 cab
bages.
\ Baltzer Emerick, 100 loaves of bread.
For Edward Garrigues, Sec'ry.
BENJAMIN KITE.
TO THE PUBLIC
Apprehensions having arisen in the hreafl of
the Steward, that illicit praSices were, carried
on at the City Hospital, under his care, diligent
attention tvas paid night and day, in trder to
bring to conviSion the parties concerned, and
yejterday morning at half pajl one o'clock, one
of the nurses was taken by the Steward, with a
bag full offundries belonging to the public. On
a promise of forgivnefs to him, confe/Jion was
made of property to a considerable amount, being
lodged in the house of John Brmjn (another of
the nurses), 7he clerk at a very early
rode to town, and obtained a Search IVarrant
from alderman Jennings, when the fail was
immediately proved, and Br'own committed to
the city prison by the said alderman. This
fortunately exonerates the others employed in the
public service, and muflprove a particular fatis
faction to the Steward and every other attendant.
Matthew Brown, conjlable, is entitled to thanks
for the readiness in which he ajftjled the clerk in
obtaining back the property, and at a place where
others might have objected to attend.
At a meeting of a number of refpeftable
citizens of Philadelphia; at the Union school
house in Germantown, on the 7th o£t. '97 :
It was refolved(hat a committee to consist
of nine, be appointed to colledt contribu
tions of the clti/ens now resident in Ger
mantown and it? vicinity and others, for the
purpose of alleviating the distress of such of
their fellow-citizens who may be deemed
proper obje&s of relief by the commission
ers appointed by the governor to carry into
elfeft an aft of the General Afiembly pair
ed on the 29th day of Atiguft last.
That the following named gentlemen be
a committee, viz.
John Dunlap, Robert Hare,
Benjamin Chew, jr. Peter Baynton,
John McCulloch, Henry Pratt,
.Gideon Hill Wells, Thomas Fiflier,
William Wiftar.
That the proceedings of the (fleeting be
figried by the chairman and feeretary, anif
published for the information of their fel
low-citizens.
BENJAMIN CHEW, Chair.
Samuex-W. Fisher, Sec'j-y-
From an Ehglijh Paper.
The French revolution, which commenc
ed by fire and affaflination, has been pro
longed through torrents of blood, and by
the means of pillage ; from the murders of
M. Foulon and Berthier in Ju'y 1789, there
is no one epoch of this astonishing revolution
which has sot been stained by blood, or
marked by the most atrocious crimes. But
the periods of deferve observa
tion, because tney present very diftindive
and striking features.
The firft maflacres and conflagrations
were direfted by the members of the left
fide of the constituent aflembly : but as the
people were not then fufficiently prepared
to behold their attempts against persons and
property with unconcern, the constitution
alists were obliged to counterfeit the king's
orders, to encourage their satellites to {laugh
ter the most faithful fubjefts of the monarch,
and burn down their castles. The conven
tion, fucceflora of these firft constitutional
monsters, paving brought the people to be
lieve, that murder and affafliuation were ap
pendages of its sovereignty, organized tri
bunals of blood, which publicly ordered its
.effufion in the name of the law. Thus, it
may be said of France, enslaved by modern
Neroes, what Tacitus said of Rome, under
the empire of Tiberius : " th3t after hav
ing at firft groaned under the enormous
crimes of its tyrant, it experienced a new
degree of villainy, still more dreadful, by the
fangu'inary laws made to maintain him on
his bloody throne, at que antebac Jlagitiis, ita
nunc legibus laborabatur."
The best blood of France was filed in the
beginning by the .firft revolutionists, Who
raised the standard of revolt apainft their
*heir Goil : "But loon were tW~
poinards turtioJ themselves. When
Barnave said in the constituent aflembly,
that the blood of Foulon and Berthier was
not fufficiently pure to be flopped from flow
ing ; when a duke pursued his queen at the
head of a horde of aflaflins, in the night be
tween the sth and 6th of Oftober, 1789 ;
when an Orleans caused the duchess of Lam
bolle to be cut in morsels, and even viewed
the ceremony from the window of his hotel,
that he might succeed to her estate ; when
Lameth pillaged the hotel of the duke de
t aft res, and insulted the august princess who
had drawn his family from obfeurity ; when
Condoreet plotted the maflacre of the duke
de la Rochefoucault, his benefaftor, in Nor
mandy ; finally, when Petion, Briflbt, Gor
fas, and many others organized revolt, and
prepared the people by means of their jour
nals and by virulent declamation, to demand
the blood of the best of kings, and the'moft
unfortunate of queens ; these detestable
men did not forefee that they themselves
would soon beprofcribed by the fame sov
ereign people whom they so basely flatter
ed ; and that they would in theiy turns fall
a facrifice to the poinards with which they
armed the aflaflins and murderers against their
princes, the nobility, and the clergy.
At the firft period of the Revolution, af
faflination was fubjefted to the appearance
of forms; M. de Favras was condemned by
the Chatelet of Paris. The'judge did not
every where aft in a similar manner •, sever
al viftims were saved from execution by the
conscience of some of their magistrates, in
whom honor was not altogether ex tingu fil
ing. But when murder was changed to
carnage, insomuch that the tribunals could
not spare time for so many formalities, nor
the common hangmen for so many execu
tions ; a more expeditious method became
neceflary, and it was adopted for the scenes
of August and September, 1792. The
Executioner being asked, how many persons
he could expedite per day, answered 400.
The number was too fVna.ll; and it was then
that Danton, Robespierre, Manuel, and
their crew, determined to arm all their satel
lites, who, in the space of two days, mafla
crfcd about 4000 priest*, nobles, or other
persons attached to royalty, in Paris.
When the Girondins, who then ruled in
the Legislative Aflembly pafled to the order
of the day upon the denunciation made to
them of these maflacres, tbey little expefted
that they authorised a conduft to which
they themselves would become viftims the
enfuingyear. It was in vain for tjrem to
exclaim against the murderous faftion of the
2d of September, for these scenes of horror
sprang from those of the 10th of August,
which BrifTot, and his friends plotted in
their midnight conventicles at Chareiiton.
What will become of those ferocious men,
whose bloody sceptre seems now about to
reduce unhappy France to the Condition of
an immense house of slaughter? Can we fuj>-
pose that divine justice will suspend its aven
ging hand, before these monsters shall be
buried in the fame tombf-into which so ma
ny viftims have buen precipitated; forae in
nocent, and others more or less No
—it is conformable to the eternal judgment
#f Heaven, that his arm shall be uplifted
until the land shall be cleared of the mon
sters who have deluged it in blood, mafla
cre, and rapine; Other faftiens, equally a
trocious, will arise, the members of which de
ft roying one another, will rid the earth of
the monsters who pollute and ravage it.
~An UMMELLA
WAS taken (fuppofeJ to have been stolen) on
Sunday evening la ft, from the houfc occupied by
Mr. Blunt, No. 9, Strawlierry-ftreet •.—it is a green
fiik Umbrella, of the middle size, with a red mo
rocco top and hooked ivory head.—Conceiving it
to have been taken by some pilfering knave, who,
actuated by pucuniary motives, may endeavor to
vend the fame, any person or persons to whom the
laid Umbrella may be offered, are desired to flop it;
and it is hoped, will apprehend and conviift the
thief to jufiice. The peculiarity of the Umbrella
wilt evidently, fubjeit the pofleffor to detedHon ; '
therefore, whoever apprehends the fame and deliv
ers it at Mr. Blurt's, from whence it was taken,
or at Mr. Fenoo's oQ~.ce, (hall be handsomely re
warded. Qel. 3.
WILMINGTON (Del.) Oft. li.
Final state of the Pole at Sussex.
Senators.
Nathaniel Hayes,
Woodman Stockly,
R rprefentatives.
Dr. Thomas Robinson, 567
William Hill Wells, 565
David Owens,
Thomas Sorden, 562
Samuel Paynter, r6o
Joshua Burton, " 55 1
Jefle Green, r*y
William Peery, ir
David Hall, 12
John Tennent v r
Samuel Dirickfon, I
Joseph Haslet, ' j
John Razzard, 1 I
James Patriot Wilson, I
Lift of those elefted for Kent coßnty.
Senator.
James Sykes.
Representatives.
Nicholas Ridgely,
James Raymond^
Joseph Barker,
Manlove Emerson,
William Warner,
Stephen Lewis,
Peter Caverly.
Levy Court CommiJJioners.
John Pleafanton, L. C. H.
Jonathan Hunn, M. H.
John Stewart, D. C. H.
[ Under the above appears the following Ja
cobinic lamentation.']
O fit is said " that only 30 v»tes ivere
opposed to the ah'ove." What was the reason ?
It was not because the Republican Interest
had degenerated—No, they were disgusted
—not at the privileges of a Jrce eled'ton ; but
at the prevailing debarment of man. The
Hydra-head of ariftneracv has too long pre
tJomrnated there !—Yet—awhile, aud a day
of retribution is at hand.]
CARLISLE (Penn.) Oftober 4.
Ou Wednesday the 27th ult. was held a
Commencement for conferring Degrees on a
number of the students of Dickinfon col
lege. The trustees, faculty, and students
of the college (about seventy in number)
proceeded from the college to the Presbyte
rian church, where a variety of pleasing
specimens of genius and oratory were exhi
bited before a large and refpeftableaudience.
After prayer by the principal, the Rev Dr.
Charles Nefbit, the excerciies were con
dufted in the following order :
Salutatory oration, in Latin, on the advan
tages of peace, and disadvantages of war ;
by James Graham.
Oration on the evils of slavery ; —by
; Thomas I Macomb.
Oration on duelling ; —by Thomas Greer.
Oration on the diflerent forms of govern
ment ; —by Henry M. Ridgely.
The degree of Bachelor of Arts was con
ferred on the following gentlemen, who had
pafled through a regular course of educa
tion in this seminary, viz.
William Breden of York county ; Tho
mas Greer, James Graham, and James
Thomson of Cumberland county ; Moses
Montgomery, and Robert Kennedy, of
Lancaster county ; Thomas I. Macomb,
and Henry M. Ridgely, of the slate ot Dela
ware ; and Edwin Putnam, of Marietta, in
the Western Territory.
The degree of Mailer of Arts was con
ferred on the Rev. Ifaae Greer, and Dr.
John Creigh, praftioner of phyfie, in Mif
flin county.
> The valediftory oration was then deliver
ed on the advantages of education and pub
lic seminaries ; —by Moses Montgomery.
The principal, in the conclusion, deliver
ed an address to the graduates, in which he
recapitulated the studies through which they
had been condufted, and earnestly exhorted
ihem to a future conduft answerable to the
education they had received, and to the ex
peditions of their teachers, their Friends
and their country.
In the afternoon, about twenty of the
students, felefted from the several clafles in
the grammar-school, - pronpunced orations
on a variety of fubjefts, grave, humorous,
and fatyrical, which were received as pleas
ing specimens of public speaking. This was
in compliance with a rule of the trustees, re
quiring orations to be delivered publicly, at
every quarterly examination.
It is hoped this institution, from the re
gularity and zeal with which it it Copflnfted,
will always meet with the encouragement of
a generous public, and be patronized by all
who wifli well to the cause of science, and
the true interefls of the state.
> NORFOLK, Oftober 7.
Died—On Wednesday night, after a
short illness, Louis Etienne Duhail,
Vice-Consul French Republic at this
place, and lately ot Baltimore. He was
horn at La Mans, in France ; had formerly
been admitted a doftor in phyfie in the U
niversity of Caen in Normandy ; he lived for
many years at Paris, where he was known
among the Literati, not only as-author of
several poetical works, but also as well con
versant in biography. Being at the head of
the board of foreign affairs in the stormy
times of the new government, he became
acquainted with diplomatic agencies-";- and
shortly after his arrival in this country, was
admitted a member of the Philosophical So
ciety of Philadelphia ; he was a man of
great circumfpeftion, apparent coldness-, and
restrained intercourse ; but on a closer ac
quaintance, he discovered deep knowledge,
mildness, and moderation of mind, a'iid es
pecially an uqblemifhed impartiality, that
made him loved and regretted by all his
countrymen. His rsmains were on Thurf
dayattended to the Catholic buryiiig-grotind,
attended by the Britifli and Spanish consuls,
and a number of Frenchmen and inhabitants
of the.borougb.
Yeflerday, Mrs. Ann Gow.
PARIS, Aug. 6.
It appears certain that gen. Hoche has font in his
resignation to the diredory, but that it has not
been accepted.
We have every reason to think that the report
of the rcfumption of hostilities ir^ Italy, between
the Republican and Auflrian troops, is entirely
withcut fpunda;ioh. In our opinion there is flill
every proipetfl fcf peace with the house of Auflria,
notwithstanding the negotiations are at this time
so much protradled-
The very moderate conclusions, ihthe report
made yesterday to the council of five hundred by
•the comtuiflion of itifpefters, relative to themirch
of the troops, hav« surprised many perfont, who
expedled to hear that a proposition would be made
for a decree of accu&tion agairift the three mem
bers who compose the majority of the directory.
These perfops have been altogether"mistaken, and
perhaps will be so for a long time to come.'
We cannot be too much on our guard againil the
croakers (pcurcux) who augment the mifchief by
their violent and unceasing exaggerations, and who,
if we were to liOen'to them, would hurry us in-
Hantly into a civil war on pretext of lleeringclear
of it. They call on us to fly to arms, without
giving theralelves the trouble to enquire whether
we are provided with the nccefTary weiyons, and
without pointing out to their friends where they
are to find them in cafe of emergency. Wretched
will-thofe be who shall allow theinfelvss to he di
r .-Sed by filch guides, who ihudder at the phan
to-ns their own imagination has formed, and who
in corapafling their own dellruition, dre calculat
ed to destroy everything ! The circamtHnces are
without doubt very critical j but when it becomes
ne&fla: yto -walk kihveni prctipicst, we cannot extri
cate ourselves from the dang.:r which fur round* us
i'y gulls of pa'.lion, Wifdona, and not rage, isef
fential to each party, to enable it to (bun the' mif
chiefs which menace all the parties in a nearly equal
degree—Perlet.
We are assured that the direflory has received
the orjgiual order of march given to the troops by
the war commissioner, Lefage
We jttft learn that the directory has decided, that
•he territory 'Of Liege (hall not be canfiderad an an
of the empire, bat (hall temain uni
ted to the French republic. It is added, that this
decision has occasioned the negotiations with the
emperor to be broken off.—lbid
We were aCured yeflrrdiy that Pichegra had
set out for H.heims, for the purpose of conferring
with the commanders of the army, and of obtain
ing thit by perfu :ioa, which it would be extreme
ly dangerous for the two parties to commit to the
fattroi anna.—lad. . .
■■ i it .1,
EXEFER, (£ajrlaa4) Aus;. 21,
It bas been said that trie Gens, employed un
der Buona pa r« .r. Italy have forced
3 party aga nft him at Paris, and re endeavo
ring to Wise.such prejudices in the minds of the
' Directors as may induce themto recall the Com
mander in Chief- Hut the complete approbation
which the Dire&ory lately published of his con
, dutf in Italy, seems to-dilcredn the report. It is
j possible, however, that Angkrkau, who has
J recently arrived from the irmy, and has been ap
pointed to command the troops of the Interior,
! may h.M-e given the Direcflorv ferae information
with regard to the secret views of that asp ring
and enterprising Gen that may hav? induced
1 them to change their feutiments, and to regard
with a jealous eye •
For CHARTER,
On moderate terms, to any port in Europe,'
I -l.j TH« SWEDISH SNOW
! V•G uft a f * dolphz,
j Captain Ramfe.
Carries about 2ceo barre.s of flour. For terms
apply to ,
_ Peter Blight.
Who intends Landing a quantity Jamaica Rum
akd Sucar, received by (hip Amity j capt Cook
frem Jamaica. '
; dim
A meeting of the Sele<£l and Commqn Coun-'
cil6, is requelled on Friday next, at lo o'clock,
the forenoon, at thcSute-Haufe in the City
of Philadelphia, in prder to receive the returns
of the Ele<slion, puriuant to the irtb feiflion of
the ail of Aflembiy, of March nth, 1789.
WLLIA|M H. TOD,
Cleik of the Seledl Council.
EDWARD J. COALE,
> Clerk of the Common Council.
The names of the members ele& are a> fol
low—to wit:
Scle£t Council.
Godfrey Haga Francis Gurney
H^nry-Pratt James Read
Common Council.
1 .iwrence Herbert Michael Keppele
Matthias Sadler James S. Cox
James 1 odd Joseph Hopkinfon
Henry Drinker, jr. Thomas
Gideon H. Wells Kearny Wharton
Caspar W. Morris Conrad Gerhard
1 homas P. Cope George Fox
George Pennock Daniel Smith
Thomas Alibone Joseph Magoffin
Thomas Parker John Ru^an
Q(\. 11.
£5" The Printers ofthe City are requested t»
publish the above in thi-ir several Gaicttes.
TENERIFFE WINE.
LANDING at Walnut-flreet wharf, TENE
PIFFE WINE, of excellent quality, in pipes and
half pipes for sale by JAMES YARD
o>a - I - eoßt
/THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREENLEAF,
HEREBY give notice, that thev have disposed
of the ptoperty assigned to them for the securing
the payment qf the jiote=, acceptances, and en
dorfeiuents given by Edward Fos, for the use
of the feid James Greenieaf"; and theJiolders of
Tuch notes, acceptances, and endorf'ements. are
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will f»ttle
with them for the amount of their refpe&ive
elaims, both principal and interest, at
any time before the 20th day of CMJober next;
after which dav, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of affien
ment. 0
Applications to be made it south-east corner
of Dock and Second streets [the Dock-street
fide), between the hoars of eleven and one o'
•lock every day, Sundays excepted.
s- Henry Pratt,
T'jo. IV. Francis,
John Miller, J un.
John Afbley,
Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, Auguil 18, 1797. t |
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAI' the CoinmiflionerS for the Dillriil o£
Southwark have removed their hall to the houfa
formerly occupied by Samuel Golf, ia ChrifVian at
the corner of Filth street. Oct. t.
medicines"
THE Poor who may find it inconvenient, from •
diftanoe, to make use of Mr. Hunter's truly me
ritorious offer, will be supplied with medicines—
fajo, barley, oatmeal, & c . by applying at thj
fctfcrib:r's Licrc, No. Market-street.
' Robert s. Stafford. -%i)e (Sajette.
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, Octobfr. \y.
From ti? prrrsßukG gazette.
MR. SCOI.T.,
BY publifojngr in your ufeful paper the letter
from, the feqjcUry of State to the Spanifti Minister,
the people of the Weftcrn Country will fee whit
mifier>bjfc pretence*are fct up by the officers of
Spamfhgovcrnmcn i ainft. the honest execution of
thtiirtreaty with the United States, an 1 on the oth
er hand they will he pleased with the candid, mar
ly conduit of Col. Pickering the whole of
this momentous bufine.fs Thq
imitating the conduA ps Adet, has puMphcd hjs
lift: ©f grievances and complaints, hut fortunately
for hjmfclf and.his nation fhey appear to be defti
tuteof foundation, or ev n plausibility, mere cap
tious cavils for the purpose of delay
How lons* are th- Spaniards thus to trifle with us !
Do they not know that more than half a million of
<American»live on the western water whose dcareft
interests demands a fulfilment, of this treaty, and
who* called upon by our government, wfould in
fant ty. open the navigation of the Mlflifilppi by
force-—l ; et the western people read and for
themCely —They will then have no hefitatioii a*
to the pdice of their claims, the bad faith of the
Spanii'. gover ors and mini ers, or an honorable
vindication of thv rights of th? Western Country
in any way auihorifed bsr our MaMonal Councils.
AN OLD SETTLER.
LETTER from Mr. PICKERING,
' Secretary of Slate, to the' Chevalier DE
2~R UJO, Envoy Extraordinary and Mi
nifler Plenipotentiary of his Catholic Ma
jejly to the United States of America.
DEPARTMENT OF S'TATE.
Philadelphia, August Bth, 1797.
Sir,
I duly received your letter of the 11 th
of the last month, to which my other en
gagements have till this time prevented an
annvir.
My additional report to the President of
the United States, on the 3d of July, in
relation to Spanish affairs, has offended you,
and is mentioned as the cause of your writ
jngto me on the 11 th. If, fir, I were now
to make the just remarks and recriminations
which your letter obviotifly suggests, I am
afraid you would be still more offended. I
am not stir? indeed, that I can possibly frame
an answer that will escape your displeasure ;
but I shall endeavour that it be expressed not
in a flyle indecorous, unusual, and i/nbe
coming a diplomatic correspondence, while
it contains a fair exposition of fafts and ar
guments, in opposition to errors and aftual
irfifneprefentations.
In refpeft to your fufpieions of an expe
dition preparing oh the lakes by the British,
for an attack upon Upper Louisiana, 1 have
laid that you never mentioned a single faft
or reason on which your fufpieions were
founded. In contrafliftion to this afTertion,
you fay that " In our conference on the
27th of February, you gave me informa
ti«n that a corps of 350 men had been
raised at Montreal, and marched towards
the lakes, where, after the evacuation of
the American posts, there was no ostensible
objeft for them:" —" That you knew
that the British agents had treated with
forpe of the Indian nations in that country,
concerning, the intended expedition ; and
that you added, that you had received those
advices from a person who might be de
pended on, who had seen these new levies
parting through Johnstown on their way to
the westward." To this, fir, I answer,
that I have not the flighted rccolleftion
that you mentioned' either of these eircum
ftanees ; —that the Secretary of War hap
pened to come into my office while we were
con»erfing, at which you expressed your
fatisfaftion, and repeated your fufpieions,
—and he fays you then mentioned no faft
or reason as the ground thereof; and that
when I mentioned the fubjeft to the Presi
dent, certainly within ten or twelve days
after this conference, I perfeftly remember
making to him this remark—That in your
letter of March 2d, you said you had three
days before declared to me the just rba
sons you had for fufpefting that the En
yglifh were preparing the expedition in ques
tion ; whereas you had offered me no reason
at all. Hence I am obliged to conclude
that you might have held such a conversa
tion with some other person, and by mistake
have applied it to me.—The Englilh iaifing
350 men—marching them through Johnf
town —and with the Indians to
promote the expedition—were eircumftanees
which appeared perfeftly fiew to me when
I received your letter of the 1 ith inft. I re
member also, that the tonference ended by
your faying you would write to me on the.,
fubjeft ; which evidently implied that your
written reprefentution was to be the basis
of any aft of mine, or of the government.
In that letter, fir, if you pofTefTcd any
grounds for your fufpieions, you ought to
have dated them. For, contrary to the
opinion you have now expressed, I have no
hefitationin fayingthatthegovernmentof the
United States was not bound to take notice
of the vague and unsupported fufpieions of
any minister; at least not to ineur expense,
by its military arrangements, to prevent 6n
imaginary expedition,' such as was the ob
jeft of«yours. When you made a formal
ftatemeut of your fufpieions, but without
any faft to (hew that they were founded ;
when the government of the United States
pofieffed no other information, nor the
knowledge of rniy eircumftanees indicative
of the expedition ; £.nd when in itfelf it ap
peared destitute of even the shadow of pro
bability ; it was an aft of complaisance to
a fill re you that it " would be anxious to
maintain the rights of their neutral situation,
and on all occasions adopt and pursue those
menfures which should appear proper and
expedient for that end." What these tnea-.
fuivo should be, and when to be taken, the
government itfelf would judge.
It was an aft of still grcate* complai
sance, when on the 21ft of April you re
newed the declaration of your fufpieions,
hut Jlill without ajftgrdng any reasons, for the
government to refolveon, and to communi
cate to you, what you are pleased to allow
to be a " determinate disposition on this
point."
In the next sentence (as in many others)
you misrepresent my expressions and misun
derstand my meaning. Ido not fay, that
" from your not having given me detailed
information refpefting the expedition, and
from the answer which I received from the
British minister on the 19th of June, I be
lieved the expedition to be groundless."
But after remarking that you never mention
ed a single fa ft or resfon to support your
suspicious—l fay, " From all the bxis
ting circumstances I ever believed the
fufpicfon to be groundless." If proofs had
existed, you would have produced them;
for although intrigues and conspiracies
for the military expedition may
loßg be concealed; yet the preparations
for an expedition (and such you
were making) must.be vifibleto many; espe
cially " on the lakes," here every movement
for such a design wduld be unusual, and
therefore attraft the more attention; and
fatisfaftory proofs of such preparations
would have been attainable: but you pro
duced none.
Another material circumstance I mull no
tice—That troops of the United States
were stationed at Niagara, on the Miami,
at Detroit and Michilimackinack; and con
sequently in fituatfons well calculated to pro
test oar territory, as well as" to discover and
get information of, any warlike preparations
so considerable as such an expedition would
require; and the officers commanding on
those stations could not have failed to com
municate such discoveries or information to
the Deparrment ps Wan yet no such com
munications were made.
But it was also well known that they had
not on the lakes a force adequate to the en
terprize in question. .1 considered also the
great difficulties that would attend the trans
portation of troops, equipage, provisions,
cannon, snd (tores, by eithei; of the routes
fuggefted—,if either could have been taken
without violating the territory of the Uni
ted States.
These when? eircumftanees abundantly
fufficient to discredit nakedfufpicion; and the
declaration of Mr. Liilon, in the note of
the 19th of June, was mentioned, only as
confirming the juftpefs of the opinion which
which I had at firft formed in March, and
which I continued to entertain of your sus
picious. I might add, that at that early
period, Mr. Lifton aflured me that he had
no knowledge of such an expedition; and
his inquiries of the governor-general of C n
ada and the British secretary of state, have,
enabled him positively to assert, in the.a
bove note, that no such expedition was ever
intended. And this faft repels your fng
geftions that I had been " remiss" in not
doing for two months, what, on my own
principles, was proper to have been done.
Buj! you think I ought not to have commu
nicated your fufpieions of this expedition
to the British minister, although " his mo
tions were to be watehed." You think, on
the contrary that the President should have
given suitable orders to General Wilkinfon
or to the commanding officer of the military
force "on those frontiers: but have kept a
perfeft silence towards the British—have let
them complete their preparations (if anyhad
been making) and colleft their army on the
lakes—have let them move forward, until
they should enter npon the territory of the
United States : and feeing the President
could not know before-h tnd, whether they
wonld prosecute their march by " Fox river ;
and Ouifconfion, or the Tllonois,'' we may
suppose your ideas of the " suitable orders" j
to the military to be—that at a great ex- '
pence the troops of the United States should
be drawn into that country and divided into
corps, to be posted on those rivers, to have
fought the British army, and thus have de
feated their enterprize. Sir, this is not the
only instance in which, after having desired
the American government to do some aft
intsrefting to your own, you have then pre
furoed to diftate how it should be done.
" But (you fay) you never could have
imagined that I would have giveu to the
British minister a piece of advice, which
might enable him to alter his plan, by let
ting hrni know that th* former one was<lif
eovered." And what, fir, was the plan of
, the British to drfeat which you desired the
American government to interfere ? Why,
according to your fufpieions, it was to
MARCH AN' ARMY THRCfUGH THE TERRI
TORY OF THE UNITED STATES AGAINST
upper Louisiana. If then the commu
nication of your fufpieions to Mr. Lifton
would induce him " to alter his plan"—it
would by a word or a letter, instead of an
army, defeat the expedition *; for it was not
possible it should go forward except thro*
the territory of the United States ; and con
sequently the communication, instead of dif- ;
appointing, would have perfeftly accom- j
plifhed what you requested.
In your sth paragraph you are pleased to ,
mention what you consider as another o
mission of duty. That although on the 2d
of March you wrote your fufpieions, and
three days you mentioned them ver- '
bally, yet offne 9th, I had not laid the mat
ter before the President. I will take the'
trouble to (how with how little reason you j
have made this remark. The 2d «f "March
was the day next prefceding the dilfolution •
of Congress ; and at the close of a session
the President is overwhelmed with business j
that cannot On the 3d the ;
then President's term of office expired. On
the 4th the inauguration of the succeeding
President was celebrated. The sth of t
March was Sunday. The five following I
days were not unoccupied ', and on the I ith
of March the answer to your letter of the
2d was given. And although you attach'
so much importance to your fufpieions, the
details I have given prove that they were
then - destitute of probability—that they
wore in faft unfounded : and consequently
of no importance ; that as such I then justly
considered them ; and therefore needed no
'• very powerful" motive to remain fiient
five days.
I cannot but regret that my reasoning is
so often not understood. When reciting mv
inquiry whether the pods occupied by the
troops of Spain within the territory of the
United States had been evacuated; aud
your answer, that not having for some
months heard from the Baron Caronde'a,
you " were deprived of any information
touching the steps taken fcr the execution
of the treaty"—l put these last words be
ween inverted comrnns, not as yon fay, " in
order to draw attention"—but because they
were an exact quotation from the tranflatiou
of your letter. And when I added, in my
report, " nevertheless he (the minifler of
his Catholic roajefty) fiy inform
ed the Baron de Carondelet of hiVfufpicions
of a projected expedition from Canada 5"
it was net to prove either that the Baron
had received your letters, or that you had
received his : but as that very information
wasafiignedbv the Baron asavj-eafon for dill re
taining and reinforcingthepofts,theobvious
conclufijon was that you wrote and transmitted
to him the information with that view : aiii
Hence, that instead of disclaiming all know
ledge on the fubjeft, candour should Have !
induced you to answer me, that although
you had not received any late letters from
the Baron, and therefore jfou could not fay
what steps had aftually been taken for the
evacuation qf the posts, yet that on account
of the fufpefted expedition from the lakes,
of which you had informed the Baron, you
pfefumed (or you advised, and probably you
did advise) that he would still hold polfefT
ion of them "to cover Louisiana." This
" logic," lir, I hope is intelligible ; and at
any rate, not " extremely falfe."
I cannot omit noticing your obfervafions
on the sth paragraph of my report. If, as
you were obliging enough to promise, you
had favored me with copies of the Baron de
Carondelet's two letters (of which you ui)- I
dertook to give me an «>ral but literal tranfla
ticm) instead of their « fubftAiice," I might j
have:J>c<ni more-carreft in reciting his asser
tion—That Mr. .Ellicot had not given him
notice of his arrival at the Natchez as the
commiflioner of the United States for run
ning the boundary line. Whether this was
a complaint, or an " observation," as ♦ju
choose to call it, every reader of your letter
will fee to be of no consequence. But whe
ther the aflertion was founded or unfound
ed, was material ; feeing, in the fame letter,
Mr. Ellicot is charged with having " carried
his zeal so far as to attempt to get pofTeflion
of the.Natchez by surprize and an afler
tion follows, that " Governor Gayofo fays
he has in his power documeats which prove
evidently the intention of this attempt."-r-
This accusation against Mr. Ellicot I con
sidered as injurious, not to him only but the
government ; for which in the charafter of
commiflioner he was appointed to aft. If
other circum fiances. induced me to doubt
its correftn'fs, the other complaint or " ob
servation," which I knew to be unfounded,
could not but increase my doubts. It was
important, therefore, and my duty, to pre
sent them together to the Prafident's notice.
I have not " entirely mistaken" this matter.
In my report to the President, I did not
undertake to recite what you " mentioned,"
but what you translated from the Baron de
Carondelet's letters : you repeated the
charge in question ; and it was not till then
I handed you the copies of the Baron's and
Mr. Ellicott's correspondence (hewing the
repugnance of faft to aflertion ; and it was
then that you blushed ; as I had before been
astonished. And your remark, afterwards,
was what I have dated in my report, " That
you supposed the Baron did not consider j
Mr. Ellicott's letter as official." Youthen !
made no diltinftion between a complaint
and.an " observation," nor used the phrase
" in the rigour," nor any other qualifying
wordi ; except those which are stated in mp
report.
Befide6, the baron had no right to
expeft any other evidence of Mr. Ellicott's
appointment than his letter,until they should
meet for the purpose of commencing the
business of their appointments \ when of
cOurse they would mutually exhibit their
commiflions. And from the baron's answer
of the Ift of March, it is plain that he ex
pefted no-other notice : ferAe therein re
cognizes Mr. Ellicott as the commiflioner of
j the United States.,
j x ln the last sentence of-your paragraph on
this fubjeft you fay, " That when after a
mixed and desultory conversation upon va
rions fubjefts, you had collected and metho
dized your ideas, and committed them to
writing, my-anfwer and obfervatioris ought
to have been confined to the written com
munication.""—This observation, fir, is in
accurate.
It may, however, be applied *to a former
part of your letter. You fay that in our
conference on the 17 th of February, you
mentioned to me the raising of 350 men at
Montreal—that your informer saw them pass
through Johnftown —and that you knew
theßritifhagentshad treated with some of the
Indian natiopsconcerning an expedition pre
papingonthe lakes. But iu your letter of the
2d of March, in which
left and methodize your ideas" on the fub
jeft of your suspicions, you do not introduce
one of those suspicions : of course, on your
own principles,l ought,if they ever had been
mentioned, to have considered them as nul
lities.
I In the Bth paragraph of your letter, you
: observe that my proof obtained from Mr.
Ellicott's messengers, that he did not at
tempt to get poflefllon flf the Natchez fort
Iby surprize, is merely negative. I offered
it only as such. But the negative testimo
ny of two meu of good characters against a
faft yvhich they were likely to be acquainted
with, .if it exified, and whose existence other
circumstances rendered improbable, and the
aflertion of which isrpingled u ,th afTertions,
by the fame perfbn, of other fa£ts, of which
some, or even one, is known to be unfound
ed, merits confederation. There is, how
ever, further evidence applicable to this cafe.
In the letter dated at the Natchez the'jtli j
ot May, from lieutenant. Pope to governor i
Gayofo, you will fee-that the governor hnd
made the like accusation against' the lieute
nant. " A gentleman had informed him
(the governor) that the lieateftant intended
to attack the garrison at that place." Lieu
tenant Pope, jullly hurt by the groundless
aflertion, (lefires the informer may be named,
and required to acquit himfclf of his afler
tion, or be punifhod'as a falfeacenfer. The
governor answers the next day,—speaks of
the information as communicated to lieute
nant Pope in familiar conversation; and adds,
that the informer was to bedefpifed. Yet,
from the pointed manner in which lie tenant
P<>pe made the demand, it is evident that
the information was presented to him as a
serious accusation. After this detail, will
it not be conjeftured, thai the governor's
" documents" refpefting Mr. Ellicott's
" attempt" are of a piece with his, " fami
liar conversation" with lieutenant Pope con
cerning his " intended attadjk ?"
-PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EFENIVC,, OC rOB r .R 13.
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
From 12th to 13th Oft. in the morning.
Admitted, since last report,
James Colhoun—Northern Liberties.
Daniel Rofs—Cox's AlWy, between Front
and Second streets.
John Lamon—Plumb ftreet,between 3d and
4th street.
Joliah Holmes—Christian, above 2d street.
Jane Carney—-George's street, between
Plumb and Shippen.
Discharged, since last report.
Mary Haywood, amitted 10th ult.
Jane Conley, 3d inft. '
Catharine Hotter, 7th do.
Died since last report:
James Colhouu, 17 hours after admiflion.
Remaining last report - 45
Admitted since 5
50
Discharged 3
Died 1 4
d . ■tt f ~ f Conralefccnt 12146
Remain in Hospital. j gick 34 f
In'erred since last report.
From city and suburbs 8
Hospital 1
Total 9
Stephen Girard.
(Signed) Caleb Lowves.
John Connelly.
by order of the Board,
Wm. MONTGOMERY,
Chairnan pro tern.
The Infpeftors of the Health-Office feel
it their duty to advise their fellow-citizens,
whose families are out of town, not to re
turn to the city for a few days ; for
at present there is a great appearance of the
prevailing fever's subsiding, still as an un
favorable change may take place, those who
are OHt of town, we conceive, had better
not move in, particularly to the lower parts
of the city and Southwark, until the disor
der has more generally subsided ; and in the
mean time to employ proper persons to air
and cleanse their houses-
Publilhed by order of the Board,
W m. -Montgomery,
Chairman pro tem.
Oftober 13, 1797.
Married, last evening, Jonathan Wil
liams Condy, Esq. to Miss Eliza Hop-
daughter ofthe Hon. Francis Hop
kinfon, deceased.
Died, on Wednesday last, of the present
contagion, Mr. Charles Davies, of th;s
city.
ELECTION.
Chejler County Return.
senator.
Joseph M'Clellan, 2226
John Shoemaker,* 106
Lindfay Coates, 60
assembly'.
Roger Kirk, 2313
Thomas Bull, • 1805
James Hannum, *947
A biah Taylor, 1745
* Joseph Hemphill, 17 13
Montgomery County Return.
senator.
Joseph M'Clellan, 763
Lindfay s Coates, 603
John Shoemaker, 361
assembly.
Cadwalader Evans, icoo
*Benjamin Brooke, 947
* Peter Muhlenberg, 880
•Nicholas Bellew, 866
Henry Pawling, 865
Joseph Tyfos, 835
Abraham Shultz, 775
Seth Chapman, 164
* New members.
Montgomery connty fends four members.
Some accounts make Mr. Bellew, and Mr.
Pawling equal in number of votes.
Thfe diftrift composed of
and Montgomery counties, elefts one Sena
tor this year. Mr. is unquellion
ab!y chosen.
By the eafterp papers it appears that the malig-
Inaiit fever which has lately pr.evailad at Providence
is entirely extinguished'—! he Uudcrits are invited
to return to the college.
'the frofts which have taken p'aee since Tuesday
will probably defiroy the residue of the ) ci,0
lever in this city—lce of near j-4 of an inch in
thicknels, was offetved yefteraay momiDg about
four mives from town.
F RT£ at A
In (hi Latin cjuotation fr- m Diemerbraeck, in yes
ttrday's Gazette.
Ir the c'.fe' of Herniations Thom.-s, in 'ojini,
for " farfuinis ,unc : e iiiii' ro" read, Sangu:: i.
tine': 10, e Sinilire—ln the id exttaA, ad line, for
'■ rcpta'jkxus,"'r;ad, repctal-anius. '
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Pour cf Philadelphia.
Ai i 'mcd at the Fort.
Ship Commerce, Chamberlain,
Port-au-Prince.
Schr, Ringer, Friar, Jacqucmel.
Sloop Barrett, Smith,
Driver, Brent, do.
- _ New- fork, Oft. ii.
Arrived.
Schr Aaive, Froji Philadelphia
The 19 tb Sept. ajleet of ships arrived at
Port au Prince, from Jamaica, with troops on
board—their number unknown as they had not
landed on the 20th, when our informer failed ——
I' ft there Ship j&fon Capt. Pintard, of New-
Tori. Names recollected coming in the f.cetfrom
Port au Prince—Brig Rofinna, capt. Mi
ner—flow Nancy, Webb—Left in the keys—
fcm\ Tbomasifor Philadelphia,floop Driver,
. do. brig Nancy, do.
BOSTON, OCT. 8.
Arrived, fchr. Martin, Choate,, Demara
ra, 49 days, via Portland, 10 days. Left
there captains Gage, Smith, and Patterfon,
in brigs belonging here ; several other A
merican veflels, names not remembered.—
Spoke nothing.
' PIRACY and CR UELTT.
Same day, brig Peace and Plenty, Dun
bar, St. Croix, 24 days. In hit. 23, N.
long. 65, 35, W. was boarded by a French
privateer brig, From Guadalonpe, under Eng
li(h colours. The particulars of the treat
ment which capt. D. received, is thus re
corded by him. " The capt. of the priva
teer came on board, with five of his crew,
and demaaded my papers,; after examinati
on, ordered all my trunks and chests to be
opened, and topk from them all the money
they contained, with the letters, which,, he
opened 5 he tiaok all our stock, and cahin
stores, with all the spare running rigginga,
fails and blocks, and cut one studding-sail
from the yard ; he also took one caflv of
rum, belonging to the cargo, and a cafe that
bilpnged to capt. Haynes, who wa-i to have
come paflenger, contents unknown. Af
ter plundering us of the above articles, he
fuffered his people to rob us of what they
pleased ; and so fully devoted were they to
the bufmefs of thieving, that they took eve
ry article they could find, even to the knives,
forks, spoons and tumblers, and in fad e
very article remaining in the cabin.—He
then put two seamen on board, that were
taken a few days before from the brig Fav
orite, SifTon, of Baltimore, master, and
Mr. Taylor, supercargo, with a cargo of
50,000 dollars. The capt. of the privateer
wished to put capt. SifTon and Mr. Taylor
on board my vessel ; but they infilled on
Haying aboard the privateer, and demanded
to know the fate of their property, which
spirited behaviour produced on the com
mander of the privateer, a condudl, unwor
thy a man, for pn their refufal to quit the
privateer, he inhumanely flogged them
Besides capt. Siflbn, there were feyeral other
American mailers and seamen on board the
names except one, not to be as
certained, this individual's name was .John
Barnes, of Marblchead :—A few hours pre
vious to our being boarded, the privateer
took a sloop from Rhode-Jfland, captain
Briggs, bound to Cape Francois, who he
said was a good prize. To add insult to
our misfortune, this inhuman pirate threat
ened to take me on board his and in
fljdl an ignominious, -puniflimcnt on me ; and
fitiifhed his brutal behaviour by difmifling
me, with a curse on my country, and a de
clared determination to rob every American
veflel he could not make a prize of."
Rum. at St. Croix, 15th ult. was from
80 nBS cts. gall. Sugar, C. 9 dolls.
1 Ar ived in town ladevening, capt. Crust,
late of the barque Pomona, and Dudley
I Colman, jun. late of the Telenwchus, both
i taken and carried into Carthagena, proper
| ty condemned.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORKToaober 12.
Lafl Saturday evening a very sudden fg tti /
of wind and thunder came up from the S. W.
the S. E. fiajk of which passed over this city, but
did no great mifchief. The h'eaviejl part of
this f quail passed into Wejlchdler county ; and
we learn, that the effeSs of it in North Salem
were mofl terrible ; the houfet-if Mr. Nor
th rup, Mr. Titus, Mr. Shearman, Mr. Smith
and several others, were unroofed ; several
hundred apple and other trees, torn up by the
roots ; a young daughter of Mr. Nortlfrup car
riedfeveral rods by a whirlpool, isfc.
Difficulties having arisen within a few days
refpeßing the value of ENCH CROWNS
we are authorised to pulUJh, that crowns are
received at the banks,for 110 ccnte, or eight
Hillings and ten pence. [B/3. P. C.~]
BALTIMORE, O(Sober 11.
BOARD of HEALTH.
BURIALS
In the weft part of Baltimore, heretofore
called the towh, for the lad 24 hours end
ing thi|S morning at fun-rife.
2 Adults, 1 Child. ■
Burials in the east part, called Fell's Point
1 See. including the Potter's Field.
3 Adults, j Child.
(Signed) Jofffplr Townfend, clerk*
O&ober 10.
Arrived at the fort, (hip Neptune, capt.
Daniel Jaberdom, from Alicant—Captain
Jaberdom put a number of .mailers of vessels
alhorc at Hampton rvads, on his pafTage up.
A Meeting of the Sele'ft arid Com
mon Councils
WILL b* held, at io o'clock in the,for?noon
f n Tu-fday-next, at the St'ate-houfe, in the
city of Philadelphia, for the purpose of ele&ir.g a
M VY-OR; as the ele&icn can be held on no
o'her J.ay, the attendance ofa'l the Members is par
ticularly requeued.
By order,
WIZ.UAM M. TOD, Cltrit onh*
Selodl Council.
EDWARD J. COALE, Clerk of
the Common Council.
O&wber T3.
$*T The printers of the city are requeued to
nubiiih the foregoing in their several gazette.Imported inthefIiipMANCHESTERj
Benjamin Shewf.£l, Maftt-r,
I'rom Bosrdwux, arid tor iale by the fubicriher,
!\'n. ir VV.,lnut St let.
iiotwdeaux 1 Brandy "j
1-n'fh market claret in cases ( Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thamas Miirgatrsyd•
who has For sale.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter caflcs
Rota do. do.
Pimento in
4000 bufluls Liverpool falti
Aug, 24. tut&stf.
lo be fold at Public Vanaue,
To the hi<jheft bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the lign of the Indian
Queen,-in ihc city of Baltimore, 011 the 25th
day ei October next, at 11 o'clpck, A. M
About seven thoufsnd acres of laird,
tftfr prppirtjr of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lyirr» between ReifterVtpwn and Westminster,
commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road rum through a confidarable part of j
theft lands) the traA begins about 17 miles:
from Baltimore, within a fe*v hundred yaAs
of Lid licifter's-touu, and extends to the dis
tance of a'viut twenty-three milc9 from Balti
more, and lies on the main falls of Pataplico '
river, from three to four miles therejn. Will |
be fold in trafls of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
t i no. r niLidrnv and wood land on each trail,
lntnr of iliem highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine gr.-fs.
At so
A tra£t of fevea hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
Bladeti&urg, eftcemed very good for Grass.
Richirfl Ponfonby.cf Bladenfburgb, will fhevv j
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
also,
A traft of land erf about three hun-;
dred 3ml thirty awes, within about two miles j
and a half o: the President's house in the Fede- '
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine '
high profpefl, from which may be fcen the !
city of V\ afhington, Bladenlburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and many mlTe»
down the Potomac river. Mr- Richard Por.fou
by, of Bladyrifburg, will also Ciew this land.
A liberal credit will be gives for the greatest
part of the purchase money, /he terms will
be made known on the day of sale.
May 8 wjm
just Received, ;
From Batavia (via Providence) 1
a few Box*sof Spices, consisting of 1
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace *1
For sale by 1
IVILLING& isf FRANCIS,
Penn street. 1
way 30 dtf i
]
Davis's, Law Book Store,
A T o. 319, High-Street. ,
GEORGE DAVIS,
iJEING hufied for some time past in prepara- 1 r
J tions for removing into his profent houf.:, has
beer, under theneceffityof poftponirguntil this day J
informing the gentlemen of the Bar generally thro" J
the United States, that his fprirg importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for laic, ou "
terms that he trusts will untitle him to the like pre
sence he has experienced for several years part.
Catalogues, combining the moll varied collec
tion ever imported i/ito this country, are printed
and will be delivered on application-
June 17. law ftw
r - R
City CommiJJioriers Office, f
June 21, 1J97. ''
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the feledl a
and common councils, patted the nd day of | v
May last, appointing the city conimilDonert,
and pr«A.-rihing their duties, fc£lion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diftrifls,
each to be nndtr the fuperintendance of one of j
the city commissioners, whoistobe individually
relponfible for the chranlJneft of the lame, and t ]
are as follow.
Driftria No. 1. From the south fide of Ce- a
dar-ftreet, to the north fide of Spruce-street, mi
rths fuperiatendence of Nathan Boys.
2. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
the north fide of Walnut-street, under thefuper
jntendence of Hugh Roberts. 4
3. From the north fide of Wslnut to the south
fide of M'gh-ftreet, under the superintendence of -
Joseph Claypoole. Z
4. From the north fide of High-street, to the
north fid« of Mulberry street, under the super
intendence of Willilm Moulder.'
5. From the north fide of Mulherry-ftreet to
the north fide of Vine-flreet, nnder/fhe super- r "
intendence of Nicholas Hicks. J
The cleaningof High-street to be in comnori. I"'
£jp A slats d meeting of rity comntiflion- '
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High
llreet, every Tuesday evetiing at 5 o'clock **
fulv '4. eotm
— 1 D
Stands for Draymen, ec
In purfuanm of an Ordinance from tbeSeled and t i.
Common Councils 1 tearing dat» the ltd day of
April, 1797, providing for the appointment of at
City Gom\>it£io>:ers, e. Seci. the 15th. g
r |~'HE following places are fixed upon by the f e
A said City Commiflioners for Stands for <jt
Draymen and their Horfcs. , U1
In Vine-ftreef, eastward of Front-street, on
both fides. pi
Safiafras, High,Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets, th
eastward of Front-street, on the no/th fide only. W
Mulherry-ftreet, south fide from Front to to
Third-street. te
Front-ftrest, east fide from Vine-street to 1"
alley. -
Fronf-ftreet, from opposite to Black Horse al- w
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Waler-ftreet, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Moore's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftrect from Pine to CeJar-ftreet, weft
flde - . Tr
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-ft;eet. c .
Spruce, Pine and South streets, east of Frost c[
street, south f'de.
Dock,-ftreet, between Walnut-street and the a
flag stone croffiflgs, east fide, opposite George 3 f
Orkl«v's. . bi
Second-flreet, between Safiafras and Vine ari
ftrerts, weft fide. ev
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul- L;
berry streets. da
6alTafi-»s-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-street,
east fide.
No drav or horse to stand within ten feet of
atfw nump. h«
STANDS' FOR HACKNEY COACHES. T,
Fine-flreet, nrfrth fide from Fourth to Fifth ca
streets. mi
between Chefnut and Walnut da
streets, well. tn
Branch-street, north fide, between Third :nd >rc
Fourth ftrctts. '' st
July 14. mw&lm •
Rj ; A Literary Treat.
"»er, » 'J u f { fodJi/Ledy hcindfomtlj printed on writing
papery price I dollar >
V new ciutioa of thai* ptopulai 1 aud rntertainingf
*. _ %work, ««tklec.l
1 FORESTERS, an Amrrica:>Tale ; beirg
i. a fequd to the history of John ljull, the Clo
thier— In afci iesof letters to a friend, with the ad
uitiori ol two letters, aliasing to recent political
M'anfadlions in America.
i'hts following froin the Clavis
foews the principal charaAers that arc introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of England
Hi-, Mother, the Clutch of Englin.d
His Wife, the Par-liahi . t
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland
His Brother Pati ick, Ireland
" Levvis f the K of Vrance
H.is Miftrcfe. the Old Couftitution
lr. His now Wife, the National Rcprefentation
iail kord Strut, the Kingdom oPSpnin
sth Nicholas l f the Dutch RcpUMfe
M I'rauks, the French Republic
The Farefter*, the United States of Ameri<
• Robert Liraiber, New-Hauipfhire
llt ' , Jor.n Codline, Massachusetts
er » Humphrey
rn : Regcr Carrier, Rhode Island
Peter Bull Frog, New-York
W | Julius Catfar, Kew-Jerfey
yf William Broadbrim., Pennfytvania
Caflimar, Delaware
Iti- Walter Pipewood, Virginia
c 0 j Hi% Grandson, George Wafliington
ill | Peter Pitch, Nwrth Carolina
to Charles Indigo, South Carolina / t
,r- George Trufly, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Slaves
Rats, Speculators
")f Mother Cfarey'iChiekcns, Jacobins
•JX '"his popular and entertainmg satirical histo
ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bil
is. knap. It hasa great (hure of originality and a>
w j bemnds with genuine humour. It is continued
dowu to the present time, and chfrraAyifes those
late political trarifa&ions which hav« caused so
1 much ui>eafinefs in America.
] Sold by H. and P. RICE, Bookseller, No. 16,
L | South Second Street, and No. 50, Marke' ftjeet.
i J° ne z ' 6 - , §
£ LAW BOOKS,
ej Latest London and Dublin fiditions.
H. iff P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market street,
.. T T AVE just received by the lite arriva's from
London and Dublin, their fpriag importa
tion, consisting of a variety of the latcft and moil
approved Lew Books which, added to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the mofl attentive collection ev
er offered for fa!e i.l this country. theiefore
beg leave to notior, that from the nature of their
conne&icnsin Dublin, they are enabled to fell Irish
.editions (as they have hitheno at the very
lowest prices. The fcjjowing are among the latelt
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time of Lord Hardwieka ; Floyer's ProAers
PraAice in the Ecctefiadical Courts; Barton's
Treat iff 011 a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Practice of
the oourt of King's Bench in Personal A&ions, 1
parts complete ; Ward's Latv of Nations ; Cruise
o*l Uses ; modern Reports, I a vols. London edi
. j tion.
9 H. and P. t» receive by the firft ar
rival from .New-York the 6th vol. complete of 1
. Dnrnford and Eafl's Reports, the id part of GU
j bert s Law of Evidenie by Loft, and a number of
t new jmblicationt. !
June »6.
the HTftory of Peanfylvania, '
I By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and will be published,
wkh all convenient expedition, by ZfcCHA
riah Pdulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
i hiladeiphia, where fubferipfions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library, 1
according to the primed proposals, until the I
: j work is ready for the fubfcriheiv 1
i Ju, 'y lß> _ aawtf 1
The Pannerfhip, t
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN 55* Company, '
i« dissolved by mutual consent. All persons ■
having any demands agiin.t the said House are de- '
fired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and !
those indebted to the House are deiired to make pay- '
ment to him—By whom bufinefo will in future be '
oarried on,at hiiStore, No. 39, South Front-street. 1
7 «od4w I
Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftreet.
' "g"ft *■ w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrifimrgh Carlijle,
Sotppenfiurg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are remicfted to take n.otic% that i
the partnerfliip which has f»r some time sub
sisted between MatUias Slough of Lancaster, and
Williafci Oeer, it nbtv dilfolvcd: but, not as M.
Slough infinnatesto the public without just cause ; 1
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fuh
je& from M. Silough to VV. Geer, dated the »9th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necetfary. Auy gentleman who wishes to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
. this bufinefa, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal «f M. Slough's letter, and than can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not .perfectly jtiftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other pe/Kon in the prosecution of the
Stage sonveyanc: from Philadelphia to Shippenf- 1
urg, or any other place.
Now froni tbe liberal and generous fnpport the 1
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in j
this business, William Seer, in conjunction with -
Messrs. Reiiy, Weed and Wiuner, is determined S
toprofecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpateh that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can pofliMy eiert. t j
The above company, who are amply provided tl
with carriages, horft-s, and every appurtenance to b
render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
thofa wnu wifb to patronize and encourage the ir
undertaking, that they can take their feats at h
George .Weed's, the sign of the White Hc.rfe, ei
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg, cl
Cnrlifle and Shippeniburg. The fare at hitherto V
eftablilhed. ( r
For the further accommodation of the publit, fc
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house t*
®f Samuel Elder, in Harrifbnrg, arrive at Sun- fil
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday, w
and return from theoce and arrive at Harrifliurg th
every Saturday, so tbat passengers deftincd for L
Lancafteror Philadelphia, may proceed ca Mon- bi
days. in
WILLIAM GEER. tl:
Lancaster, Jan. aj, 1797. bi
N. B TUis Line of Stages'flarts from thf
h®ufe of William Fcrr»e, in Lancaster, on every Pi
Tuesday ai/d Saturday morning at A o'clock, pro- or
ceeding to the westward? and from the hcufu of m
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harriftiurg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evrning arrives at Pa
trirk Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and retur.is U
from thence on every Thursday : performing the G
.(2ine routine daily aj in its tour from Fhiladel-
Auvert
; n ,, On tlie ioth of November next in Alexandria
(I'eing court day)> will be.exposed for file one
or more covering Jacks, and several young
in '~ pncs oF difTvieiU ages and fiees ; all defcendcd
'' o,n U'lyji Gift (an imported Jack from Spain,
lev u P. war <ie of r ; hands high) our of imported
4 j Jinnies from Malta, full I* hands high,
tal e terms.offale (or if not fold, of letting
I t'icffl fnr.ont or more seasons to cover) will
ca, '1"" be mad« kr.own : the payments tr.sy be
ed: eafy to the purchafcr, bond and security
being giiien for 'he amount, with ir.tereft.
At the fame time and place, sundry
Horftsand Mares will be offered for sale. The
latter having been to the Jacks, are probably
with .foal.
JAMES ANDERSON, Manager.
ount-Vtrnon, 20th J
n _Seprembs?, 1797. ) " 11W4W
Insurance Companv of the State
or Pennsylvania.
rHE Office will be kcp£ until further notice at
the School House in Gcrmantown. The
Company ilill retain the room in Chefnut, above
Seventh street, where a pcrfon will attend to re
ceive and give answers to applications, every day
from 10 until I o'clock.
Seot. 13. dfltiawtf
Thomas Armat and Soft,
OF PHILADELPHIA,
INFORM their cuflomers aad the public, they
have removed apart of their merchandize to
J Wilmington : Also, they have their itore open in
I the city. .At either place their friends can be sup
plied, and their orders carefully attended to.
By the Cumberland, from Hull, they have re*-
ceived a handsome aff«rtment of ai tides, fuitafele
to the approaching fcafon ; and expeit to add to it
by other fall ihips.
.Should a th<i iickncfs prevail in th« central part of
im I c ity» that branch of their business will be re
j moved to Germaatown.
r g 0* The communication by pod is open and re»
Q gular as afual.
S«Pt. 18. thrf
s, TO BE SOL O VERT CHE AP !
A Light WA GGON almost new, with a frame—
and a pair of harjaefs (Engliih collars) has never
been used—price, 90 Dolls.
A Htrfc 16 hands high, seven years old—and a
new chair j with * 1 ailing top and harucfv— 3»o.
Jbn«juire No. 331, Markct-ftreet
- ft- U -g ufl ' 24 /__ diw
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
jbwahtahlc Lot of Ground ;
C JTUATE on the north-east corner of Wal-
O nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State
e Honfe fqjare. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut Ui eet, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street j there are at
J present two ("mail two story brick houfe9, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
» Two three flory Brick Houses
s With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
* Wa;er-ftrect, between Mulberry and Saflafras
f streets, containing in front on Water street sis-
J ty-four feet, ind continuing that breadth east
ward nine:y-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
J- on the north fide, and are a very desirable litua
tion for a merchant, flour sailor.or others who
f may'haveoccafion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very reasonable terms
foreafti. For further information apply to the
printer.
July 31. m&wtf
TO B E S O FDi
Ami poffrjfion given immediately,
AI.ARGf. nvo story brick House, lundfomely
situated iu Princeton. There are four rooms
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings jl feet in
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. There is a pump
in the yard, an excellent kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
stables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two stables for 27 horses. The heal
thiness and plcafantuefs of its situation, and the
number »f genteel aud agreeable families in and
n«ar the town, render it a desirable retreeat for a
gentleman from the city. The commodioufnefs of
the house, its central position, and the largensfs of
the (tables,mak« it every wayfuitableforatavcrn,for
which it has always been conliderd as a capital
(land. Inquire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ane. 25. 19 —dlwlwtf
, . . .
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Fedtral City.
A magmfieentilwelling-ioufe *o,ooodollars,
& cafll 30,000, ire 50,000
i ditto 15,000 & cifh 15,000 40,00®
t
1 ditto 10,000 & cilb i»,ooo 10,000
' 1 ditto 5,000 ft eafh 5,000 io,ooq
1 ditto 5,000 & Eafh 5,000 10,000
1 cafll of 10,000
a do. 5,000 «ach, are • 10,000
10 do. i|ooo - - 10,000 1
ae do. 500 - - io,ooq ]
00 do. ino - - 10,000 ]
»oo do, 50 - - 10,00*0 1
400 do. 35 - j 10,000 I
i>oao do. »o - »0,000 j
15,00® do. 10 155,000 1
1
'6j7.19 Prizes. ' i
litlbl Riar.ki. •
50,000 jTieketi, at Eigh* Dollars, 400,00#
N. B. Tofavoupthofe whs may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollar's will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 <he last ,
\but one :
And approvednotes, securing payment in either ■
mousy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not lel'sthan 30 tick- (
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpecimcn of j
the private buildings to be erected in the City of
Washington—Two beautiful deflges arc already J
Ideated for the eatire Ironts on two of the public
squares; from these drawing:-it isprop.ofed toerefi .
twocentreand 'ourcomer baildiDgs as foonascot
fible aMer.thij lottery isfold, and to cenrcy theia, '
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
thp manner described in the fchsmc the Hotel r
Lottery. A nett dedmiion of five, per cent, will
be made to defray theneceffary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Univcruty, to 11
be erected within the city of Washington. 0
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at t
more than half the amount ot the lottery.
SAMUEL ELODGUr.
,§, Tickets may be had at the Bank ol ColEm- J
U> ; of James Weil & Co. Baltimore; of Fetcr
Giiman, Boston : of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
f atid-of Richard Wills, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
1 his Day Published*
a Atjd to be fold by WILLIAM" YOUNG, corner of
e Secoud and Chefuut streets,
% Price 3-Btbs of a DolLr,
d Observations on certain Documents
'» Contained in No. V and VI of
1 4 4 The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
? fn which the charge of speculation apainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secreta&y of the Treasury, is FULLY
REFUTED.
f written Br triMSELr.
This publication prcfe.nts a concise flatement
ot the base means prailifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to z;fperfe the charters of rhofe
pcrfons who are couHdcred as hoilifc to their difor-
fchemes. It also contains the cor
refpondcnce between Mr. and
Monroe, Muhlcnburgh and
j jc6t of the documents aforefaid, a furies of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt,
t that the connection between i;im and Reynolds,
. was the reiult of a ilaring conipiracy on tlyi part
, ol the latter and his associates to extort money.
A discount of •ne third from the retail price
r will be made in favor ot wholesale purchafjrs, for
vjasu. Orders to be addxeiTed to Mr. Yovkg.
Auguß 2Jf,
No. I^B.
Dijlrill of Pennsylvania, to tuit :
■ , L- s n DK if REiMKMBERED, that on the
► -13, twenty sixth day of July, in thetwen
l ty second year of the intlependence of the United
States of America, John Menno, of the said di£-
tridl,hath depofittd in this office the title of a book,
the whereof he claims as proprietor in the
words following, to wit :
Observations on certaia documents contained
w in No. V. and VI. of " The History of the Uni
t" ed States (or the year 1796," in Which the charge
" of Speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, lat£
4t Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refated—
-41 Written by■ himfelf,"
In conformity tdthe a»ft of theCongrcfs of the
Ucited States, entituled, M An a& for the encour
agement of learning,* by feetiring the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors ants propri
etors of such copies, during the times therein mee
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Cltrk 9/ tie DiflriSl of Ptnrfyhama.
K.r W4W
The Inhabitants of the Diftridt |
of Southwark, ' j
A RE informed that a Coachee is provided, to be I
kept at the Constables* ollice, the north east i
corner of Front and Almond (Ireets, where the
friends of those ficlc persons wfio desire to be re
moved to the City Hospital, are requeued to make
application—Also, a Hearse will be kept in readi
ngs for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
N. B.— The Poor, who wilh to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may be furnifhed with orders
by applying hs above. Aug. 29
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFIGS
No. 64 south Second-street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commenced drawing thr 29th May, FOR
SALE. The price of ticketiwill rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly en ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prises of
four thousand dollars each, oa the last day of
drawings
Check Books kept for examination ancLregiller
ing, in the Caqal, No. 2, City of Waihingtoa, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteri«g.
Also, tickets for sale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing ia the couHe ef the fammer.
The business of a Broker in aH kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, 3cc-&c. tranfa&ed With the
utmost attention.
_ June 2 tu&f
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 Soti;h Second street,
[Price 31 Cents J
A Vicw of the Causes ana Consequen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Ebskine.
May 15 §
STATE TRIALS.
Sold b W. Young, Bookf«ikr, No. J», South Se
- eond-ftre«t,
The Penafylvania State Trials,
the impeachment, trial, and acquitr
al of Francis Hopkinfon, Judge of tht Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general assortment of
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the p«ck
ege, well ailorted, and entitled to the drawback if
nxported. July 7 —*
For Sale,
That well known place, called Vande<irift's
p F R R v,V
ON Nefhiminy cretik, i!! miles from Pliila
ladelphia, oa the New York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premises are a large two ltcry stone house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame liable with a gootl threshing
floor, and l'ome put buildings—also a well of 1
good water, and an excellent icc House. On
this place is a moll elegant situation fora gentle
man s feat, commanding a view of the Nefliam- '
iny toitsjunflion wiih the Delawaae, and thence '
across to the Jersey (hore. Jt has the privilege 1
of one half the tollreceived from the bridge. |
For terms apply to the Subscriber,
MOkDECAI LEWIS. ]
IVav ix. '. itawtf. t
COLUMBIA HOUSE .
Boarding School for young Ladies. ,
MliS. GROOMBRIDGE with rr.»ch pleas- (
ureand refpefl, returns her lincere ac- ,
knowledgemeDt for the liberal c*ourageroeiit
(he has received during four years reddenie in
Philadelphia ; and aflures her friends ami the
public, so far from intending to decline her
ichool, Ihe has made a superior arrangement far n
the more convenient accommodation of her J
scholars. —Every branch of ufeful anil polite r
education is particularly attended to by Mrs. f
Groombridge and masters excelling in their c
refpedlive proficflions. t
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets. a
June sth, it 97. JUnJ'rf c
The fituatiuii is perfcilly healtly ; and made f ;
more agreeable by an exteuftve garden and Tot j
of ground adjoining the house. r
jfujl Publi/hed, f
And to be had of MeflVs. Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the ether pricipal Booksellers in
city,price one cents,in hoards',
New Views of the 'Origin of the I j.
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN S"4ITH BAR'I'ON, m. d.
June ic. *6t
( R°fs &3 : Sinifon,
THAVt F(JR SAL£
f Hogsheads,
Excellent Coffee in<Ticrce?. anil
C. Parrels.
A small parcel of nice cocoa in ba»s
r A few puncheons Jamaica fpirits,fourth urocf
Superior Tereriffcf wine, old an 1 in Madeira piAca
An invoice of jewellery and hoficry to be fold by
the package
A few hampers of heft chetfe.
' Tuly *7- dtf.
The Stibfcriber has for Sale,
it A large aflortment ©f India Muslins,
e coarse and fine
e India Calicoes
t Sooty Romalls
B'ue-CJoth» and Checks
». Barsfjtfna Handkerchief#
Blue rod and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irifli Linens and bheftings, well
aflbrt?d
'■> A box of piapers
5 » Silk Umbrellas
t Iwo boxes of fine Spices, retaining NutroepL
Mace aad Cloves
e Black Pepper of firft quality
r East Indk Ging«r
Java Sugar #
A quantity of Madeira Wine
Ditto of Gin V .
Roll Brinjftone
e Mordecai Lewis.
. Auru ft mwim
Higgins' Specific
' FOR THB
c PREVENTION AMD CURE OF THE
YELLOW FEVF.R.
fince this disease made fuchrav*o-»ein t*ii»
J city and New-York, (he author ha« turned his
: atttntiop to it»caufe« and cure,—The'refolt of his
e enquiries has convinced him that the reafen why so
few persons recover from its attacks, ar frem its
not being well understood, and the rorfequ.-nt
8 wrong method taken to core it. He is pejfuaded
" that theexceflive bleedigps and mercurißl reatmest
of the Faculty i« highly injurious, a;id that the on
ly rational mode of treatment is by lis uft of propjr
acids. Convincud of this he offers his Sferif, as a
certain remedy, if used according to the 'lire(""ions.
To be had in bottles, at one dollar each, of tha.
inventor <?«. Higgins, Cherry flreet, two d jors a
bove Ninth Greet, (late manafrw of Jackfrr and
. , Co's Medicine Watchoufe, London); by V. Lc
■ j blamtyNo. t'6 ;W. Oriffih.No. T77, T Prar'n No.
{ *l, South Third street, T. Stiff", No. 55, New flreet
( knear Vine street. and?. Gain, Mo. 36, Race arect.'
j Aug. tu:h» 3t
; COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just received, by Wm. GRirnrHS.Na. 1 ij.aouth
Second-street, a frefti supply of
Genuine Bal/am of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hill
(who knowledge ai aßotanift procured him
■ the appellation of the Linnaeus of Britain) and is
•onfldered in England as It ~rtain ,m, for the abo-fre
complaints; it is also oi singular efficaoy La the
Hoofing Cough,
It may also be had retail of W. A. Stokes, No.
I 61, South Second-ftropt, and T. Snrr, 55, New
ftr«et, in bottles at 7 g cents each.
Wm. GairriTßS having observed the happy efi.
seA of the medicine, (several cases of cures' 1 lav
ing come within hit own knowledge) and the gn-at
demand for ft has induced him' to order a lafge
supply, a part of which he has just received.
■AvgHfli" law3w
30 Dollars Reward.
RAN awir on Saturday fcft, two indented Ser
vants, Gifwrd Dally, a mulatto hoy.nbctit \ f
years of age, a Aim light built a«ive fellow, can
read and write, five feet fever, or eight inches high,,
has a heavy countenance-; had or a luftian cnafce
and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine flioes &c.
Allan Ilellons, a black man, about 14 years of
age, five feet fevenoraight inches high, a thick set
.clu-tify built fellow, particularly about the breech;
'had on a fai'or's blue jaekft lined with fwp.nfkin',
dark striped vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
hat, coarse shoes, &c.; each of them had several
shirts and several other cloathes with th«m. Tliir- 1
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or I < dol
lars for each, and reasonable charges, on delivering
them at No. 54, North Third-ftr/et.
li« black fellow is about a year from Lewis
Town, in ttj_e County of Suffot, state of Dela
ware, andhastaken the boy withlrim.
J u 'y 3 r - mtuitfjw
To be SOLD or RENTED,
A LARGE 3 Story Bri|k House, <on the
Souih fide of" Filbert street, between
Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied at the Sur
veyor General's Office.
The Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet detp,
tha lot 110 feet deep, with the privilege of a nine
fert wide Alley extending the whole length of
the lot, to.a thirty feet wide Court for Carriage*
to turn in. The House is not flattered, and
may be turned either into one, or two dwelling-
Houses. It 15 suitable for a large
or wnald make a good Tavern. Immediate
pofleffion will be given.
Apply to No. 111, Chefnut-Street.
A "g- 21- cod^t.
Muftcal Injlrument Manufactory,
No. 167, Jtrch-SlTiel.
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable gra>d„
fid :-board, pier table and iquarc piai.o for e
mak' r from London, returns thailts to his fritntlo.
and the public, for their liberal
and hopes that by his;(Cduity and atrentk 11 to ev- '
rry branch of his business, torr.c-rit acortinua»ce
ot their faArors. Piano fertes made on th# newest
and moll approved plans, with pedals, patent,
swell, a.y French harp flop, whrch he H».ttei»
himfclf will ue found on trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not iuperiorto anyimport«-
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any in'ftns
mint purchased us hiiri, if sot approved ef in,
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of Musical inftrumer.ts rnadev,
uncd, and repaired with the greatest accuracy,,
difpntch, and on the moll reasonable terms, Ki
ready money oniy. '
Second hand Piano Fortes taken in eschan<-i.
M ay ?.c. "
Forty Dollars Reward, '
RAN away from the fuMinbrr on the let
onddiyof this inll. July, a Mulatto Mah,
named VVill Bbwier, ahout forty year* of age,
five feet fevcii or eigbt inches high, raliter
chunky made ; had on when he went away, a
drab colored cloth coat, llriped purple trawler*
and jacket, it is probable he will change hia
cloathes, as he took a'number with him. The
fanl fellow formerly belonged to Mr. Charles
Blake of this place; and it is expelled he luw
made towards J>ones'» Neck, in the Delaware
•State.—Any perfen apprehending the Ibid fel
low, aad securing him so that! can get hkn
gain, shall receive the above reVard if taken
out of the county, and Twenty Dollars if in
the county, aiid all reasonable charges if bro't
home*
JESSE REED,
Quscn Ann's Cousty, Maryland.
July 3. . wit
J ul r 3