®sjetttsr* muim&tms, if Pbiladelpbia Daily Advertiser
J ftmi 1399j ' FRWArErENING, MARCH,. ~0,.
For Savannah, . ArenM [VcLvzrr.
For Savannah,
THE SHIP
SWIFT PACKET,
Jof'ph Gltnn, Majlcr,
5 TNtended as a conflant trader, and will
twrnmci r , witil a " convenient speed—is
ForfreipkTor'pTfr and fai,s " eU '
g 01 Paffa g c apply to N. &J. FRAZIER,
\m.„ i • c . . No. 9J south FroHt-ftreet.
and fc y ' ° r re "-' VC<I by the said fti P' '4O whole
»d to half-tieree. Georgia RICE, new and of prime qua.
— — February j8 Jjw
For Hamburgh, ~~
J°f>" Thompson, Majler,
I L «nfid£r P ah r r d ' Com P let,! "'der, and i, now loading.
on board, at Brighfs ' PPly '° the Mast "
JEREMIAH WARDER,
February i, N °' 12 n ° rth Third street
' mw&fW
For Amsterdam,
The fad-failing cedar and live oak
ship Amiable,
or to ' on board < at Bright', wharf, J
JEREMIAH WARDER, 1
fc February i e No. iz South Third street. \
f •• - mwOTaw
(i t . For Rotterdam, s
Edward Jones, Majler,
J i .f Vl^<^,' he gfcateft part of her cargo engaeed will
S;rKsrs*?„s r ' reitl ""
For Sale,
f A grand, patent, harpsichord
PIANO FORTE, ti
TpNtirely new, and one of the best ever imported into p
rhTac:,ett y - En<iu ' re * f thc m 't<- i
For Sale, ■, •"
A Quantity of Exeellent
Turks-Island Salt, *
Aud a few lisgfteads '"8
3^'and 4th proof Rum, r°i!
Epquire of , ■
Februar_ J e^u H-ollings worth sff Co. ~
A QuantitjToF BrandvT T
FIRS r & id proof, ' /
Gill, of 4th proof, in pipes C
Jamaica Spirits, 4 ,h proof, in Hhds ?
Ck V , , ncafeßot 40 dozen each pou
Olais I umblers, in pints and half-pirvt 8 phi
Window Glass, in boxes, of different li*ej F
Hazlenuts, m ftcks
Whiting "\
Copperas (
White Lead C m kh dl A
4c Spanilh Brown j - I\
J,nuary F ; rSa ' Cby PETER BLIGHT.
"Tvir. Pickering's Letter.
This Day Published, Bytl
AND FOR SALE BY THE EDITOR
-rue r Pri « three eights of a Dollar. ' P en
, " f the Secretary of State, to Mr Pinck n <
X-£2ZS2r~* "<* "h td »'"• » S3
A. L J a , n well recommPe^c « l for honeftv so
bl Sh ew iih«to~a,ch a m: " 1.
retain a young IT' "" CO " d j io " m 'V SCVCf
Front street. i\ Bn l a " c at N °- 68 South
1 February ,6 Mai
O Stockholders "
the Pcnnfylvania Population Company are request- Ma
FourA;r:: l^L com l. 53 S lod
«Vlock lor >'h,- ' r ?' tlle 4th »f M?rch next, at li Ml
proceedings of th UrP ° ° f takin S iMo th^
ments on 'the shares C °^ PaDy k?' Ki ° f " lakin S further Fe
Constitution. ' a S lceabl y *» loth articje of the VTO
, iij order of the Beard, 1\ j
Feb. 2-j SOL. MARACHE, Sea. share,
" ~ VM4 at the
j ufl: Arrived, "It
In Brig Nasct, Robert T.vrt, Matter, '"6 to
A Largo of SUGAR y COFFEE, Conftit
FOR SALE By,
F, COPPINGER,
uswn v „ N '°' South Front-Street. T" 3
WHO HAS ALSO ON HAND, *
Malabar Peppkr i n Cases, itie*, fc
wt. Surat Cotton, Greenlt
4,000 lb Isle of France Indict.
*ebn»ary 17. That
horses. ' ?4£
OUNDRY good Horses for frie, fuitahje either for car- ?'"J prgr
d -
Apply at No. 177 Market-street. any app
March 1 be made
Coffee,
♦ ?u n e in hhds. bags and barrels, entitled
te the for sale by March
E-zekiel Hall,
March No. 41 north Water-street.
this day, ' NI
BETWEEN No- Ij4, Market Street, and the New- Of 7/,<
e VL'h'' a H " nd , ed I)ollar Baltimore Branch Bank ti *he
note. V, hoever has fonnd, and will return it to „ ~ ,
fcriker fcall be handsomely rewarded- Üb * P "\ r s Cc]
M„d, W,LUAM M'Dougall. Sia
S- gaily had
Agenteel new 3-story BRICK HOUSE
P ... FOli SALE,
' S ' ab^ VC Spruce-llreet—PofTeffion may be
r> hsd the beginning of April next '
, and will Feb. 28. A PP'r at No. 109, Spruce flreet.
speed—is diw.
James Brown,
-llreet. . -f l No. 119 South Secondftreet,
40 whole LJ AS just received per the brig Peggy, capt. Ha-dv
•ime qua. Amflerdam, a small invoice of D y T C H
«zw GOODS, confiftiii(r if v+ " v "
~* I Ticklenburgs
j Flax«n linen Oznaburgs
1 J Coffee-Mills, No. oto 4
J Straw knives j
Scythes ie hinds long—and
,r > ela ls tumblers aflorted
loading. Which he will Ml on gosd terms by the package, I
d accom- Mfo on hand, ]
ie course ' cw Quarter-casks Msdaza WINE and
e Master 50© Gallons Spirits Turpentine '
Febrpary a 3 * J
Te'et. tre J b Garden -> Grass aud Flower-Seeds,
kfiw Root!, hfi. &c.
This day landing from the (hip Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from London, | ,
' e oak _ And FOR SALE by !
, GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE, 1
fer, . < *'° rner Walnut and Second-streets, J I
w tar . Ca £"n{ and ** len f'™ Aflhrtment of I
\ great GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS I
s good ROOTS, See. See. ' I
paflage Among which arc,
Wb " f ' Four AfparagnsfjThre£ kKids Cresses
four Berecole Twelve Onion
Twenty-five Beans Thirteen Radim
Ireet. . Beetsi Fifteen Turnip I
fzw l hytn . Brocoli Fifteen Pe P A
Twenty-fix Cabbage Six Savoy I
Three f rS'™ l " our Parfnio j
• Five Cauliflower Twenty-three Melon J
t.. L "'""
Coßimon and lemon Thyme
_ Curled kaf and sprigged Parlley
W w , Pot Mar ;'S° ld Pet Marjorum
e, ap- Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
... „ j *^ a '' Shallots , I f
MS. Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucern,
' 1 Red and white Clover Timotfev &c &c I
W FF nwri c "'^^i° n °f the molt cfteemed ( j
5 u ■ and ROOTS, |
Being the njoft extensive ewr imported into this city. >
The above are from a «pitai Seedsman i„ Ae
1 into o • . f warr3ntecl '"ft and good. ■
ladel- e' be had b X applying •« above.
3> I? § j
O NOTICE. j ]
TNiSw f , Ul f ot the Uuited State#, i„ the
in Ihefrver^fr 1 " err,tor >'' "eretofore advertised
'nJaafeC t vT PIP ' rS ' coaflme '>« this even
tn H J v„,, y Tav t er " to be continued from day } ,
today, till the tcath of MARCH next, if not fconer J
• January 4 e IMa
•
j Notice. J Di '
T;'LS ANT Wi " leaVe tOWD P° r "ively ear- Cos
Admittante—one quarter of a dollar. Co"
Children—half price. iv>;
N. B. An ELEPHANT TOOTH weiehiiw ca T»
pheht ii'keptf ' " " !C P 1 '™ where the £<
d F
Wanted,
A NURSE, t» attend a fide Lady, a few mile, f, om
1 this city aperfon well recommended, will be im- T
mediately employed and liberally rewarded, for infer- 1
mation enquire of the Editor of this Paper ~
February 24 *
—* fSt %
FOR SALi; ~ A
By the Subfcrxber, at his Compting-houfc, N«. Jo, Sooth
Thik'd-ftrcet, 3
A ANTITYOf
1 epper, entitled to drawback n°
Corlica Wine m pips, .
to Swedes Iron }'"
_ b ftiH_ s9b '«
New-JngUnd Rum r
lb- aw =et-Oil-_Beef—land1 and 130 kegs of Butter 7
n- " ta lks of London Porter and 2 6
>y Several small invojcf. 0/ Dry Goods, &c & c 9
th March, SAMUEL BRECK, Jun.
wry>&fft 14
T™ o or Thr'ee Gentlemen F « b
V LOr)rivr t T mod l ,ed wi,t l S eßtMl BOARD and
"arch 1 apP r,F,g at No - J9 Lombard llreet. Refpa
1 wfmßt gen
r. Pennsylvania Population Company, fh-t,
6 lV°f TIC K E eiv " to tks that a A '
1\ farther assessment of fix dollars is lovied on each J
fflare, which they are rcquefted to pay to thc Treasurer Boofc '
. at Company's office, No. 53 north F«*rth-ftreet, on' J a ™ ne(
or before the fth jnftant. Striped
They are further informed, that on neglec2inr or refuf- Finc C
ing to pay the fame, the several forfei>.ures;dirc(fted bv the Taml,o
Constitution, will be cxaAed- By order of the Board lndU
~ , SOL- MyRACHE, Treasurer. Shectin
Ma "h I 2 _ 4t Jaconet
""phE holders of Robert Mori is and John Nichelfen's M'uflin
• . " otcsand a «ept»nces, deposited a. collateral (fecur- Dacca i
rtl'Ju ( enga^: T C J nt "• " f Edward fM *nd James Tambo,
Greenleaf, are to J u nrV
That th fM T AKE , NOTfCE Carnbri
fVIf th \ f f. brcnb 5 rs ' at thc "quell and by the authori- Table C
ty of the holders of near nine tenths of the amount of Huckab
Sfmi'Z7vr° ye '°> havc ""ived from George Women
Simpfon, Efq an afiignment of the trust under which the Dimity 1
th, a a . c "P tances a » secured, together with all Men's SI
/n r l i* nt / herCU " to —therefore Tambou
be made t auy P lrt of u,i property «to Wfli Ua<
e 0 And a
THOMAS W- FRANOIS, N. B.
HENRY PRATT, Linen,
JOHN MILLER, j*n. Pocket !
.. , JOHN ASHLEY, Houlh
March 1. JACOB JJAKER. A phi
~T— A full
Jufi Pullifiied, 1 A plai
ANp TO BE SOLD BY THE 300JCIELLE1LS, A full
I THE SPEECH a plai
:Of Joseph H. Fleming, of Philadelphia, £ l' 1
n the: LYC'EUM, or society for free debate, at Mr. A full*
Poor s fcheol-houfe, oh Wednefdky eveninn-, Februarv 8 A i'-
on the Qneft i,,,.. whether a *p£„utl« in a ftl\ P
"TI 'l ' 7"? t0 aA b y the willof his le- []
had, or by his »wn judgment. Feb. » 7 J anuiir
A Houfs and Lot.
m3ybc a un „„ FOR SALE,
f\ V E , a:ld L °t. in a good neighbourhood, and
'-'f is:. p^"f ant ["o^tioEf; it is the second House east of s th
- d ' w -__ r lat ha '" lrome row of new buildings, now near
on Arch, between Fourth and Fifth
deep ; h "f f 3 . b °K twe ?7 f;ct forty-two feet
and ali UL '? ab,Ut c 'S ht y f«« deep, more or less •
Hardy, ing to f° f ha ' a P hafant O P--
ICH Prfx-x , , P erha ps three hundred feet more
PofTeaon may be had about the Ift of April or May next
erms ?re, three thousand dollars to be paid 011 re';: v
-n?the title, and the rendu, if desired may far I
h u ft rit r. lndintereft -°r rACANTLOTS
Twe fth W whe «. between Front and
or for th, £l' W taken in payment, either in part
their valu |iberal°rates° 8
House f " h ; h r p P c r^ UlarS ' P ' eafe t0 3 PP'y a t the Counting
. of r the Subfcnber, Arch-ftraet, No. 146 anv
j corning, from yto 8 o'clock. 4 ' 7
S February 2 , WILLIAM SANS OH.
eeds>
dick Na. ha« ' S t !lere ,l' y , SiVC "' t0 such Share-holders a, I
Dav the sam P 5 on theirfliares-to i
£ 7 the fame immediately to the Secretary of the Comna- I
I Ph'i'i K- 'ri" 7 ' 3 oflicc ' No - 53 north Fourth.(t-eet 1 '
» of'^yi^ 1 - r y a L C fu [' h " in s or Wed, that in default I '
jot paying the fame within thirty days from the 4 th of Fe
s in 1 forfeitllr e» will be ftriAly ex- !
'DS Bv I°'? the « ft "ticle of association '
.IJO, I By order of the Board,
p e j ) SOL. MARACHE, Secretary
)nion I
Important Public Document. j
adifh I THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED, {
lr " lp I . , And for Sale
Peas At the Office of the Editor of the Gazette of the
™°Y I United States, -
d '"P I . No 119 Chelnut-Sireet,
011 I l rMcl ONB * dollar and rirtr cents]
tI!CC I 13 A F ' W CoPl£s OF THE
I Receipts and Expenditures
OF THE UNITED STATES,
I _ . For the Year itqc.—
- — r
I » This day is pubnfhed,
By W.liam Cobbet, is three large o«avo volumes,
A Ufer.ce of th: Confiitutions of Govcrn
and r n l f tbe Uniied Btate * Of America,
I E p'" e h' at " ck ,f M - in his letter to Dr
Price, dated 'he twenty feond dayof March, i 77 g,
By JOHN ADAMS, LI, D.
I » "f United Statii. A
Zmbeiliihed with a striking Lik<-nefs of the author
e "«" Ved S„i»r& tom aB origin,! p ~' 1
li?. February 13 —§jw
Red Clover Seed. ~
" er j ch'BVer' BVer 8Ver Seed of tl,f best quality, in bags of J
Madeira wine in pipes, fit for immediate ufp ir j
- r>ZT T'" e ?,- ! T S - h and quarter calks ~
families ■° f qUlllt> "' f ° f thc " fe <*
ar- Coffee in hogllieads
Jamaica spirits
Conne<9io«t soap in fimall boxes and
VV indow glass and feg.rs, and foui
li'-l >'<■ -
- ]ow iS™?- i
j fQKSAtE,Si-
Phiiip l\ickJin & Co.
s- TiwrtitAi and 7 „ B
r- 1 Hyson / T£ 4 S . prill
I I? Tubs Quickfiiytr <
I % Cheftv Bandanno Handkerchiefs Bull
, A Gcjod,, well assorted in Cor- T
h aurcys, 1 hickfets, Gmgliams, MHflinets, Dimities. &c.
I 3 1 runks black Sewino- ijik ploy
180 Crates Queen's M'aie, well assorted U,
I xo 1 ons Sheet Lead to b<
I Niilsafforted flat and flijirp point. plete
I l' n i nd °, I V a , r£iular l Madt:i ' ra wiuc in pipes, and horf- third
1 India Market J r heads' and 1
I 40 c l andloH og'hea£lsTeneriffe Wine *' ' Chefi
I lo Hogflieads choice Port Wine
| r Tierces Snake-Root :
J Calks yellow Paint .j® 1
| 9 Boxes and Ja..Bundles writing Slatos f Ui j°
j I Box Ink Stands and Note PreiTes . I?
I 14 Bales Sail Ganvafs alTorted, No. ito S nterai
„, w f u -J
I R-f ii GR 4F& AN, judgn
J Kefp.iftfully mfonnti hcr friends, and the publie in It ■
genera l , that on Tuesday the roth day of January, Ertpla
flie propoles opening, at No. 39, North Sixth- "tion
I At- P ound
j Lmen and Mu-flin Warehouse Wl
Book Mull ins, from 6/y to I if it per yard ' Ja "
I {"""" dut o, from 8/8 ca 9 /b p cr yard
(rom 7/10 10/ '° per " ard A*
iT^Y'n- B °,° k Mu " in '' from to 11/ per yard V,N
India Muflm, from It/3 to IJ/ per yard" Calks
I bheeting Muslin REE
j Jaconet muJlin Handkerchfef», from to 6/per hdkf Ditt<
j Handkerchiefs to 10/6 per hdkf. Gree
Muslin color d and Handkerchief.
Dacca Handkerchiefs
1 ambour'd Cravats from jc/8 to' ii/it -
! Pocket Handkerchlefr ' ' ;
? a ul br !^; from " /310 p" y ard —- r J
Table Cloth. J
Huckaback Towelling 'TP^H^
Women's Cotton Hose, from 6$ to iypei paLt 1 C<
Oimuy from jfio to 6/11 • V t0 , i ot
Men's Silk Hose
Tjmb.our'd muslin Handkerdiiefs from u/11 to lift «1 north
Antr" ?r , r tl£ '' en '' ' Sill^s . from s/S to cy 7 . fouthwa
And a variety of other articles. , ' by Four
I / re «'ved for all -kinds of,ready made Timoth-
Houfhold Linen, &c. &c. ?' !at the C
A plain ihirt, made and mark'd, 3 «•» dollar. Monday
A full ruffled ditto, 4 dollars. ' of the f,
A plain ihirt, made and mark'd, s dollars. Frothsac
A fuil.ruffled ditto 6 abllars< Febru;
A plain Ihirt made and marked, j i-t 'dollar,.
AMI ruffled ditto 7 dollars. 7' ■ -
A plain shirt made and mark'd, 6 dollar.. At 1
A full ruffled ditto 7 1-2.
A plain shirt,, made and mark'd, 6 i-j dollars Imner
A very fine ruffled dkto 8 dollars. " hX
Luien included, v
January jj. Young
C Dec. c
aHimgton Canal Lottery,
SS «e
rS
nt open: V iz , is th ' SCHEME of No. I.
t more. "1 P«*e of ■ ao.ooo dollars, Jo>ooo
ay next. 7 lift drawn > I0 ' 00 ° 10,000
rZ" Tickets, each f 35,000
•f ™ >° si ««•
int and 4. 4 4,000
lo ditto 100
P art f C dittn i '°° a
«S«S S 4:S
hunting . To be ra.ftd for theCaeal, ,6,j 5 ®
6 ' any SBSO Prizss, 4
iOhf. lt6so BJank ». ■<" 'wo to a pri le .
iSr * £»«•.
*- ess.* Afifssi , s
es—to ft , * .
S i
« -1
'• ' l"> appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
i r r DANIEL CARROLL, «/D.
lewis deblois,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. m.duncanSon,
THOMAS LAW,
!*. ffg" ,
Robert Smith & Co,
No. j8 ,SW£ Front-Jlrctt,
5 UAVE FOR .ALE,
A Quantity of Long Nankeen*,
1 . ALSO,
in be An assortment of India Qoo d*,
AMQUQ WHICH ARB,
Bandar. *» •
f Pullicates
.J.,- Black ao<j[ colored Perfiang
r7l ' Gurrafis
(l y Pun jama
U r Baftaes,
g CoiFaes
i-uohumi, Ac. togsthcr with
A general assortment of Europe^flGoock
r" t ' February f ° r "" Cnfuing reason - mw&f
A Black Boy.
SOs T°whoh 0i | D " tl;e,i " 1C of 1 fmarr '. aAivc Black 80,
... cJS^Tys^-
ate for sale,
About i ,600 acres of Land
j V c LI t r ' tUa(cd ' ,a y' n g on and between Var/h
and Bepch Crueks, Mifflio county, Pennfylvanij in
four leparate Patent., For terms ot sale appft [1
nd Wm. Blackburn,
January a 6. N °' S<>mh S " cond f^ r «et•
_ mwftf
CAMILLA, ~~
Or A Pifture of Youth.
nr,'iV,V 1 C fi aUtho 7 si ° f EveUni and Cccilil < to be com
ii' volumes, at half 9 dollar each payable
B° lh d at New-York, by Mr" SJ
r " rh At CONDITIONS,
" ployed ' " elt type> P£rfc<al > " £W > » en-
JL ftitChed iB , b ' Ue P a P tr > is '"tended
to be publiihed every i weeks, till the five are
pleted; the firftand second are come to hand, and the
f. third is hourly expected. Subfcnption. are received
ChetftreT Mf ° 1 ° KM£o °> No - 41,'
Mrs. D'Arblay (late Miss Burney) the celebratpd
Widdf'll l" 1 ' S '. ni ™ itablf w ' ork > nee ds no eulogy
to add to the laurels she has already acquired in the
hterary world. The (trength of imagination and It
Ifffir- 0^ ft!rle, d t f P ,a yed in Evelina and Cecilia, wiU
_ fficiently tecommend to every reader of taste and
judgment, the perusal of Camilla.
1 pit I m 7 n r ot be L 'mproper to add, that the Queen of
' fatfnn j V il g perused this interelling publi
. cation, presented Mrs. D'Arblav with a thnu^nJ
fterling, M a teft.m.ny 0 f hcr # p probation d of
mwf
ALAND I N G.
T Walnut-street wharf, from on board the Ihip P ee .
Ell 'ott, from Bourdeaux,
Caflcs GRAVE * or White Claret, in Hhd. and Qb.
REB CLARET, in Hhd«
Ditto in cases of 24 and 30 bottle, each
treen and Souchong TEAS, in quarter chest.
For sale by
Rundle Ss 5 Leech,
Februavy 6 Nn, 9 Walnut-street.
mwftf
Public Notice is hereby given,
T H A t I have applied t. the Judges of the Supreme
ro a 1 f ° jV t0 fu PP'y the in my title
to a lot of ground situate on the Weft fide of Fourthlrect,
containing m br.adth 20 feet and in length ?6 feet, bound
f "or'hjvard and westward by ground ef the fubferiber
fputhward by ground of EtKrjrd Shippen, and eastward
tIxX h ' OCCa f l0 L nC<l h ? the lof * of => <l f ed from
liwothy Harrington, John Lewis and James Walton, by
' «fre™?r?/f Mollyneux. AU persons concerned
r« nTl r ° rethe J uftiees of tie f.id Court
»„ C '? f the city ot Pbiadelphia, on the third
rf^fi.hr u rff-' h " ke their anf «"f t« the bill
of the iubfenber, filed in thexffice of Edward Burd Efa
— §3w
- FOR-SALTE;
At Whitesides's TEA-Warehouse,
te" 1 ? CHyfon Skin.
Young Hyfan, i '
' 3taw3m.New Theatre. qq^
On FRIDAY March s,
Will be presented, a Tragedy, ciUed
The Grecian Daughter,
Dionyfius, Mr. Cooper ""
Philotas taoreton and n
Melsnthon, Warren lunar
Phocion, Prigmore ing ol
Areas S? u' )Un ° to m
Calippus, Warrell .
Greek Herald, Darlay, jun.
Greek Soldier, Pel da. J
Perdiccas, Maedonald an y r
Evandcr, Wignell fyj,
Erixene Miss Old field r e
Euphrafia, (The Orecias Daughter) Mn. Merry J
To which will be added,
A Farce, in two a&s, written in America, (never per- lande
formed) called vefiel
The Enchanted Flute. pr»y«
«Cedger!y, Mr fs* ■» was
Raymond, Moreton Wir.j
Si- Harace Huflle, Harw»«d g wa(
Doctor Endlcfs, Fr ncis ft ron
Gte ( Blifiett
Landlord, Warrell «
Jeweller, \ afte i;
Tradefmcn, Mitchell, fcc. a thi
Harriet Bloomley, MifsL f
Dinah, Mrs. L'F.flrang* on t ,
ift Lady, Mri. Doftor
id Lady, Mrs. Mrtcfctier ,co '
« ! '' ' ' "" A
JJrtited States, ) «• '
Penrifyivama WiJlriS, \ f * twic
TJ4 pursuance of a* Writ to m« fKre&ed from the w ho
1 ble Richard Peters, esquire, Judge of the Diftritf
Court of the United States, in and for the Diftridl of Penu
fylvania, will be cxpofed to Public Sale, at the Merchants rye
Coffee-Koufe, in the city of Philadelphia, on Monday, Prel
the nth day of March, (-nftant) at 12 o'clock, to
Brigantine, called the LADY WALTER.-
MlfflTW STORFF, with all and singular her tackle, ap
parel, furniture and othei' appurtenance-, as 1 >
thp. fame new are;—the said brigantine hay- corr
ing beep condemned as forfeited to the Unit- con
••dStates, &c. WILLIAM NICHOLS, marshal. ft an
Mir(har« Office, March 3d, 1797- tied
The Inventory may be fcen at the marshal solnee.
. - College-Hall. der
READINGS~and7IIECITATIONS, J l^
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
on SATURDAY EVENING, march 4th,
At 7 o'clock, will be delivered,
APO E M
On the President's Farewell Addrefi, with i (Vetch of the ,
chara&cr of his Succeflor. Jp(
After wbich, * ill he recited,
Ao allego'iol Poem, in two parts, called an<
•L'hc Cave of Nature. St;
Or, a Piftuie of the Virtues, Vicr>, PafTi«nj and Attributes fcc
of the Human Mind. ho
Tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfon, jun. at the Library ; w *
atmr. M'Elwee's looking-glass-store, No. 70, S. Fourth
ftreet; and at Mr. Carey's, Bookseller, Market-llreet—
Half a dollar each. C 0
mi
A FIFTY DOLLAR NOTE was given to the w:
Doer-Keeper by miftakr, on Tuesday eveh.ng : the le ,
owner is requefltd to apply for it to Mr. FiMNELL. Q f
City of Washington- bl
Scheme of the Lottery, No. 11, for the improvement at
of theTederal City. to
A magnificent ) ao,cqo dollars, & } r e ,ooa
dwelling-house, J
1 ditto 15,000 & cafs 15,000 40,000
.1 ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & cafii 10,000 ao,ooo K
I ditto -5,000 5c calh 5» 000 10,000 - as
x ditto 5,000 & 5> 000 - Jo,ooo o:
1 cafti prize of 10,000 n
a do. 5,000 each, ire •" 10,000
to do. 1, 000 - « • 10,000
»o do. ' 500 - - jo.ooo
00 do. 100 - * lOjOno,
»oo do. 50 - - I°.°°" I
400 do. »J - ■ 10,000 tj 1
X,coo do. -a® * '3d,ooo* 1;
15,00® do. lo ■» *50,000 I
« ?
16,7.39 Prizes. t
33,»6i Blank*. t
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour those who may take a quantity of ,
pickets,th£ prize of 40,000 dollarswillbethe tA3T drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but o« e : - ,
And approved notes, securing payment.in either monsy
or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will be received 10/
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of tiie pri
vate buildings to be eredled in the City at alhington---
Two beautiful designs are already lele&ed for the entire
fronts on t.wo of the public fquaresj from thek 1 prawings
it ispropofed to erect two centre and.four coraer buildings,
as i'oon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to con-vev
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will be made to defray
the ne.ceiT.iry expenses of printing, &c,vflnd the surplus
•will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
University, to be erected within the city of Wafiiington.
The real Securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
sre held by the President and two Dire&ors of the Bank ,
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half .the a
mount of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of.
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Pet«r Oilman, Boston :
of T°hn Hepkins, Richmond ; and of Richard W«lls
Cooper's Ferry. ,0
This Day is Published,
BY MefT' Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the other
Book fellers, price One t)ollar and twenty-five cents, elegant,
ly printed on woye paper, and hot-prefTed, by John Thomp
son,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF.
The CONSTITUTIONS of thf fc-ocra! States,
With each, ether, and with that of the United States:
exhibiting in Tables, the prominent features of ea*h Con
stitution, and clafling together their most impertant pro
visions, under the several heads of administration ; with
Notes an 4 Observations. By Wmiliam Smith, of Souths
Carolina, L L. £>• and member of the Congrcfs of tfcr
United States. Dedicated to tha People of the United
States. ' r
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior paper, at'
3-4thsof a dollar. February 6 nswf -
A Young Gentleman,
WHO e*n come well mcnimended by a refpeclablc
merchant of this city, would be wiUing,,te engage either
in a wholefaleor retail {lore.
A lint addressed to A. B. and left with the Priater of
.(his Pajftr, will he duly att. ndei to.
Mi rehA
CONGRESS 0f the UNITED STATES,
HOU3!! OF REPRESENTATIVB9. dt
' ing of
Wednesday, March I. built v
Mr. Swan wick, from the committee of commerce was so
and manufa&ures, made a report on the petition of .men v
sundry inhabitants of Champlain (N. Y-) complain- Mr
ing of incemveniences on account of being obliged each a
to make their entries at Cumberland, and praying ing th
some port to be made a port of entry nearer Cana- concli
da. The committee thought it unrveceflary to make e.d to
any regulations on the fubjeft. _ been 1
Mr. S. also made a report on the petitions of Mr
James O'Brian tod James Aylward, mariners, who been
fled from Newfoundland, at tlie time the French confic
landed there, and put into Portfmeutli, where their culty
1 vefleis had been seized for the tonnage duties : they yet fa
prayed for a rcmifiioo of the duties. The report vote a
was favourable. It was opposed by Mr, Coit, as new 1
laeir.g contrary to law, but fuppurted by Messrs, tiprvs.
Bwanwick, W. Smith, and S«waH, as one of those tettic
strong cases which ought as form an exception to whit!
any general rule. The report was finally agreed to, he fa
afterwards a bill was reported, it was ?«grofied »or leis t
a third reading, and before the house rose, passed. D'aj
The bill dirc&ing certain petfons to be placed T
on the pension lift, was regd 3 third time and p»f
---f J •
fed. r
A bill w«s received from the Senate concerning j my*
the circuit courts of the United States, which was Clop
twice tead, and committed to a committee »f the htao
whole to-morrow. t ®"»
Mr. Gallatin wished the bill for fixing the milita- A.
ry efiablifliment, which had been .eturnsd by the Loc
President of the United States, with his objeaiops, Mut
to be taken up. i >lt
Mr.'W, Smith hoped ( this fubjeft wop'id be tasen lv.
, up, but before it was entered upon, he wished the Swi
! committee of the whole to be discharged from the
■ consideration of it, as he found, in a former in
fiance of a similar kind, the business had been set- Uav
tied in the house. The committee was accordingly berl
difebarged. The house then proceeded to re confi- dev(
der the bill, agreeably to the direflions of the coa- Mn
ftitiitian. The bill was firft read, and then the sol- Sm
lowing objeQiens of the PrcfiJent : cr ' r
United States, Feb. 28, 1797'
« Gentlemen of tht House of mo
Refrifentatives, nev
e " Having maturely confidercd the bill, to alter rep
and amend an a&, intituled, *' an aft to afeertain an
and fix the military eilablifiiment ot the United der
States," which was presented to me ®n the twenty- rea
second day of this month, I now return it to the 1
house of reprefeptatives, in which it originated, cot
' with my ebje&ions. tal
" First. If the hill passes into-a lav.*,, the two wa
companies of light dragoons willbe, from that mo- bu
ment, legally out of service, though they will after- wt
ie wards continue aßxally in service ; and for their rc<
lc lervices during this interval, namely, from the time
_ of lcg?l to the time of aSual discharge, it will net 101
.be lawful to pay tH.em unless some future provisions th
be made by law. Though they may be discharged .
nt at the pleasure of Congrels, in justice they ought wl
to receive their pay, not ooly to the time of passing 11 '
the law, but ?t lead, to the tir»c of thfii; aftuai fp
difchatge, P :
Secondly. It willbe inconvenient and injurious ar
to the public to dismiss the light dragoons, as soon di
as notice of the law can be conveyed to them, one
of.the companies having been lately destined to a hi
necessary and important service. P
Thirdly. The companies of light drag«on»,con- al
fid of one hundred aud twenty-fix non commission- s;
ed officers and privates who are bound to serve «* ai
dismounted dragoons, when ordered so te -o ; they t
. have received in bounties sbout t\s« thousand dol- o
lats j one of them is completely equ pped, and a- .
bove halt of the Bon-commifiioned officers and pri- t
vates have yet to serve more than one third of the
term of their inliftment } and besides, there will, in t
the year, be ajconfiderable deficiency in the comple- a
raent of infantry intended to be (Continued. Un- c
der these cireumftances, to discharge the dragoons,
yof does not feeia to comport with atconomy.
iwn -fourthly. It is generally .agreed that some caval- 1
ry, either militia or regular, will be necefljjry; and <
'"or according to the best information I have .been.able 1
to obtain, it is my opinion that the latter will-be
•Pfi- less expensive and mote ufeful th,an the former, in 1
in— prsferving pea.ee between the frontier fe' tiers and tlve i
~ t lre Indians, and therefore a part ef the .sih'tary.eftab
;'T lifhmcQt should confill of cavalry.
G*. WASHINGTON.
S, in The Speaker tfi.en rend the clause in the Cotifli
tery- tution which (lirefts the on such oc%-
fr , a) s fion, and which fays, that in cafe two-thirds of the ,
iona] House wherein it originated Ihall be in favour of J
on. passing the bill, it (hall be sent to the other, and if
rizes, two-thirds of that House he also in favour of it, it
B * nk ' Khali become alow. The votes .of both House sto
le 3 be determined by Yeay and Nayy.
Mr. Nicholas'faid, he'Tneant to vote against the
a ; of bill, bHt he did net wife to Hand charged with re
fton ; fail agio pay.the men far th« time they were in
v,lls fcrvice. He'thoughtahe bill' Was by no mean# lia
ble to a charge of this kind- As it could foarcely
be supposed that, a{ the .time, they were making a
voluntary gift of 100 dolfars t» every officer dil-
Other charged, it could not reafonablv be fufpe&ed that
epant- the Legifiature meant to defraud the men of their
,om P- pay.
Mr. W. Smith djd* not fee any necessity for the
,l„, obfervationsofthe gentleman from Virginia. There
tates : was Rofching in thf Mcffage ot the I lefident which
Con- charged that Home, with art intention of defraud- J
' P™- ing the men of tbeir fia'y. Whatever w&s the it
, ,V 'hJ, fig* ofgentlemeji, ibis was not ib- .charge. But
if the" it was that tViivv«u|d be t 'ie rcfult of the
Inited' : bjfl, and it would be fi< weeks or two months be
fore tb«y could'be notified that the a£t was passed.
at ' It was the legal opinion of the Attorney-General,
* wf therefore, that they would not he entitled to pay
[during that timc>
Mr. N"ich<>fct*was sorry the genfleman'from S.
able Carolina and he did not think alike on the fubjeft ;
Clther he thought the obje£lions lie had made were necef
terof faty, and be had made them for the the purpole
dated. He thought the President ought not to
*4' have doubted their willingueU to have allowed the
pay in qucftian. He «of option the House had StS
given some extraordinary proofs of their liberality I
This fefiioi.; amongst other proofs of this, they
had determined to appropriate money for the b«M
in eofa *6 gun frigate, which he had caufedl to be Yen
built without authority. But the pay of these men
was so much a point of law, that he believed the
.men would have been entitled to pay. . eomed
Mr. W. Smith laid their having agreed to jive from t
each of the Officers 100 dollars, without mention- the p a
i«g the men, rather went against the gentleman', the Fr
conclusion ; because, if anv thing had been intend
ed to have been given to them, they would alfa have
been mcntiuned. ... In t
Mr. Willows was sorry that forae things had not n
been more attended to, when that bill was under o^t j )e
1 consideration ; and, although there would be a diffi- g overl
| culty refpeSing the Brigadier General and Staff, c h o ice
I yet he tho't the objedions well founded, and would long f
I yote against the palling of the bill, in order that a the lo
new one might be brought in, to avotd the objec,
I lions. From the demands lately made forthe pro
teition of the Frontiers of Georgia and reneffee, j )ad) .
which amounted to upwards of 390, psk? dallais j t | on 0
he fa'ly agreed with the President that it would be Scy]la
less jexpenc# to keep dp the two Companies of ditfat
Dragoons, than employ Mnitia Horse, ™
The Yew and Nays were then t ..ken as follow I . i ,
YEAS. cartel
MeflVs. Baily, Baldvin, Band, Blount. Brent, pMio]
Bryan, Buck, Bsrgefs, Cabel!, Chritlie, tSlailvM 11, ot her
, Clopton, Coles, Dearborn, Findjey, Franklin, Gil- upon
. litan, Gillcfpie, Greenup, Gn-gg., Grove, ijansp- p*rhi
ton, Harrifon, faathorn, Havens, Heath, Holland,,
. A. Jacklon, G. Jarkfo*, Kitchcll, Livmgflon,
r Lo' ke, Maclay, Macon, Madison, Milledge, Moorr, * hc
, Muhelnberg, New, Nicholas,-Orr, {"age, ?aikei, °
Patten, Richards,Sherburne. SJtinner, Israel Smith, "
i R. "Sp.igg, T- Sprigg, Strtidwick, Swanwick, 1
t Swift, Venable, Winn 5,5. * x
c NAY S. '79'
MeflVs. Ames, Bradbury. Coit, CHic. Dana,
- Davenport, Dent, Ege, A. Poller, I>. Fofler, Gil- 1 "
y bert, G'' ma "> Goodrich, Grifwold, Harper, /len- tH ""
I- derfon, {Litt.eru, S. Lyman, W. Lyman, Malboiie, armi
1- Murray, Potter, Reed, Sewall, Sitgreaves, Jer.
1- Smith, N. Smith, Isaac Smith, W. Smith, Thatch- mcl
er, Thongs, Van Ale*, WadMrth, Williams. 34.
The bill being accordingly loft, Mr. Nicholas I '<■
moved that a committee be appointed to Lrinjr in a 1 "
new bill, which being agreed to, a nev. bill wat < [ he
er reported (exadly the fame as the former,.except "j 1
in an omiflion of the parts objefted to by, the Prefi- iorr
td dent). It was ordered to beeogroffed for a ihivd
y. reading, and afterwards pafjed.
he Oa mutjon ofMr. Ames, the house went into a van
J, commntee ufjhc whole on the billfor placing cer- c ' n
' tain buoys in and near the harbor ot Boston, which j* 1 "
vo was ag-eedto, alter filling up the blank far 6 large - !E
10- buoys with i6oe d»"a | '». a "d that fo'r 10fnsall ones | he
er - with a like sum ; the bill was oidered for a third J UI
eir reading, and afterwards pa.Tcd.
The bill for extending the time for receiving an at
i„t loan the domeflic debt of .the United States, went
m» through the fame form and was pafled. la^
rft j [he huufe resolved itfelf into a committee of the 1 7
rht whole on the amendments of the Senate to the ferll
ng for making regolations with refpedtto the duty on ctl
ual fpiri's dilli'.led" within the Umttd States. They
pr posed to do away the licences for tw» weeks,
and to provide only for Ninthly licences, to bear lli
,on date 011 the Ijrft day of every catander month. s - 1
3n ? Mr. Harrifon hoped these JfflCcdEljjUS would not or
0 a he agreed to. It *»ss wejl irown that in the foutbern
parts of the unio«, there was a small diltillery in lh
on- almolt-fTery farm ; but if these amendments were
on- adopted, it would ha»e the effeft to detiroy them, i<
■ n%' and the law would berorae particularly odious «*
'bey the people ;it would »lfo wholly defeat the pjirpofe tv
dol- of revenue from the tax.
1». Messrs. Parker and Macon urged similar objec- 1
pri- tions *> this bill. ..... „
'the Mr. Dayton (tire Ipeaker) who origrnally in
1, in troduced this amendmtiit into the bill, repeated his v
iple- arguments in favor of allowing licences to be tsken "
Un- out for two weeks. v
ons, The amendaie'HS were drfagreert to. 15
On motion of Mr. Blount, the report of the anm
aval- mittee on the petition of the widow of Seccalocuta, L
and or the Hanging Maw, was taken up and concur- '
able red in. ... „ , . r .
Hbe On motion of Mr. l.ivingfton, the houle re
r in fplvet! itfelf into a committee of the whole oh a bill |
d tlw in addition to an aft for the telief and projeaioji of 1
flab- American -seamen. -This bill was brought fbrwaul
to lupplj an emission in the biil palled la-it feifion '
5J jefpetting the manner 411 which certificates of citi
atifti- zenfhip should be granted. This part of the hill '
oc*a- oe'eafioned cotiliderable difcnffion lad feflion ; and
f the 1 was a fubjeft of conference betwixt '.he two houses ;
ir of | but unaccountable negleft was omitted
md if in the law, and had heen fuppiied by the Prefider.t,
it, it who had adopted the plan agreed upon by the two
:s to houses, except that he had ft mfwhat enlarged it.
The bill now proposed, was a copy of the pro till-
H the otts which had been adted upon by the Prclident.
h re- ' Mr. Harper spoke at considerable length against
re in the mode laid down for the ascertaining of citizen,
ns lia- ship, which was to be proved in cafe of failure of a
arcely copy of the regifler .where the pcrfon was bon,, by
HB- a one credible witness. Mr. H. proposed that the Ml
r tiipony of three freeholders ihoyiti be but >
d that uotwithftanding all the pains he took to prove the
their proptiety of this amendment, on the queilion being
put, there only appeared three »otet in favor of it.
or the The bill was ordered to be en fc ro.fi[ed for a thud
There reading.
which Th< amendments proposed by the Senate to the
ifraud- rc .fo!ution calling upon the ttates for the payment;
> e of certain balances, were taken up. Mr. W. Smith
But mo ved to recede from their disagreement to the
jf the Senate's amendments, which was negatived, there
is he- " oc ; r ,g only 12 votei in fav«r .of it. Mr ; Nicholas
pafied. t j, en m oved to adhere, and the motion was carried,
tiieral, g waßW ; c k re ported a bill to authorise a
° statement of the claims of George Smith and John
Robertfon, formerly slaves in Algiers. It waa re-
VV a', ferred to a committee of the whole.
nccef- Mr. A. Foster, from the committee of Enrol
urpole ment, "reported fevsral bills as duly enrolled, which
not to received the signature of the speaker, and were af
red the terwards laid before the Piefideat. Adjourned.
Phxladelp hia,
FRIDA r EVENING, March 3.
Yefterdav arrived imthis city, from his rcfidenre in
Virginia, THOMAS JEFFERSON, Vice-President
Eleft of the United States. The Company of Artillery,
under the immediate orders of Capt. Shaw, wel
comed that tried patriot with a discharge of 16 rounds
from two 12 pounders ; and a flag was difp ( ayed from
the Park of Artillery,. Searing the device " Jefferfoo
the Friend of the People," Am. D. A.
Translated far the(N.Y.) Daily Advertiser.
LEYDEN, December 2.
In the midfl: of so many examples which every day
present themselves to the eye of afflifled humanity,
of the effects produced by the unhappy ambit.on of
governing our equals, withont any delicacy in the
choice of the measures, the illuftrions Wafhmgton,
long since the model of true patriotism, which is ths •
the love ofo«ie's country, and entirtly free from all
mo%«, has now added th« moll grievons
treat of difintereft™nefs, as well to the continual per
miflivei of power as to the numerous titles he before
had, and the love of his fellow-citizens, and the venera.
tion of his age, and to the admiration of poHerity.
Scylla satiated with power and honors, abdicated the
didatorlhip,which he had usurped after having plung
ed his country in blood and remedied the fame- abuiei
by cruelty ana tyranny. VVafhi-gton renounced a
legal power, aequired by l)is owu merit, to finifh his
car«er with a virtuous retirement, and worthy of a true
philofoph?r., after having contributed more than any
other means, both as a Soldier and E-giflater, to iix
up®n his native land the hjipfinefs, of which,
pxrhaps, portals are susceptible
STATE PAPER.
The following Report was presented to the house
of Representatives on Tuesday lall; with an ex
tensive appendix.
The fa retavy of jlair, in purftiance of the order
W the house of'fteprefentativrl, of the 8;h May,
1 79«. on til's' memoria) and petitioa »f fundiy citi
zen, of the United States residing in the city of
' Philadelphia, relative to the losses they have sus
tained by the capture if their properw by French
anned vejTrls an the high seas, or in consequence of
t;>e forced or' voluntaty files of their p-ovilions and
merchandise, to thij ©ificecs of the colvpial admioif
!rations of the French republic, having examined
„ the fame, together w;t(i accounts of fitn:lar lo{fe*
sustained by American citizens from the in
j (he European seas, or in the p«iU of France, which
lt • in the details were necefiatjly couse&td with lh«
. former^
J RrffECTrVtl.* RIRORTS :
That since the commencement of the present war,
a various and continual csjiipliiints htvebeen made by
' citizens of the United States to the department ot
to ftue, and to the miniflers of the United States in
rc y r ance of injuries done to their conhn.ei e «n4ef
the authority of the French republic. These in
juries were —
j. Spoliations and maltreatment of their veuel»
)n at fca, b,7 French (hips of war and privateers.
Nt id. A dillrdjing and long continued embargo
laid upon their veffds at.Botirdeau* in the yeat»
he ' 793 and x 794-
irll 3d. Tbc nou-paymifit x>t bill# anil olhex cvjc»cb
ces »f debts dye, drawn by the .colonial adminilltap
ev tion in the Welt-Indies.
4th, The |eizur« prforced files of the cargoes of
.J their vessels, and appropriating-them to public us«,
without paying for [hem, u.r paying inadequately,
lot or delaying payment for a length of time.
l in jth. The non-performance of,co»itraft9 made by
in the agents for the government fupplie?.
ete 6h. The condemnation of their vefTels a*d car,
, m jioes under fueh cf the marine ordinances France
to as are incompatible with the treatic? fcbfi'.Ung be
(,fc - tween the two countries; and
7th. The captures lanftioned by ? decree of the
; cc _ National Convention of the 9th May, 1793, [A]
which, in violation of the treaty of amity o.idcor.»
J n . merce, .declared enemy's goo Is on bcatd of their
his vefTels, lawlul prizes, and dire&ed. the French Ihips
jjgn of war and privateers to hring into port neutral
veflels laden yvitli proviGons and ;boutid to an ene
my's port.
nm . It may be proper to remark here that this decree
Uta, of the Convention direfled the capture of neutral
cur- veflels laden with provisions i>.nd deltiued. for ene
myV poru, preceded by one month, the of
, rr . the British government far captnring " all vessel*
bill loaded with corn, floyi,or mea!, bound to any port
iji of > n Frasce."
vaid Suck was the nature of the claims of the citizens
of the United States upon the French republic pre
citj. vious to the departure of Mr. Mtirroe ss miniftef
. bin' plenipotentiary to France in the lummer.pf 1794,
an <3 and since his residence there. To him wire entrull
,fe9 . ed the document* which had been collected to fub
ittec ftantiate Particular eoniplaints ; and he wis infruftr
aerit I to press the Freoch government,to ascertain and
• two pay what might be found justly due from time to
d it. time ;as additional cases role, they were ttanfmitted
ovjfj. t» ,him. with a like view. In September of that
ent. he to his fecietaiy, Mr. Skipwith,
rainft (with tlie proviflonal app«ii"menrof Corfu! at Ps
izeii- ris) the charge of itnting the rases, and pteci'ng
-of a them in the proper t>ai'n of settlement 5 1 efervirw
1, by to himfelf the duty of hodng general ptinclples with
etef- the government, and gatroniting and fupeiintend,- ,
$ Uut ; ing his proeeedings.
■e the I" cenformity wjth the direflionof the
being Mr, (hortly afterwards made a geneiai re
of it. pott on the injuries and difficulties and vexations tn
.thiid which the commerce of the United States '.vas lub
jedted by the regulations and teftraints of the f rencli
, government, or by the abuses pVttftifed by its,
0 1 e agents : to which he added a number of particular
nnent ea j- ej — CO py n f t jj c w hole was annexed to :he t
port .marked B-] This report was laid before the
"there government 5 and added to the varim.?
cholas P rc^enta tions of Mr. Monroe, and his predccefi;j>,
irried P r °tlwced a decree of the joint Committee of
Safety, Finance, Commence, and Supplies, d?t ■'
rife a ij»h Nov. 17^4— copy of which «vas annexed
1 John marked C.3 This <jecree, appaientlv calcula'ed •
las re- rf medy msuy of the evils complained of, afforelt
but a very partial, in refpeit to compeniations, 2
Rnrol- corapara*.ively small relief while it continued in force
which the principles of the decree of the 9th May 179 ■
re as- which rendered liable to feiiure and conflation,'
ied. goods of enemies found on board neutral vrSlt.itAmerican vefTels hid been declared exempt from ti
that part of the deciee of the 9th May, which au- n
tliorifed the seizing of vefTels going to an enemy's I
port with provisions, by the decree of the National R
Convention of the 28th July 1793. t
On the appearance of the decree of the 9th of a:
May, the American minister at Paris remonftratcd d
against it, as a violation of the treaty of commerce tl
between France and the United States. In con- w
fequencc thereof, the convention, by a decree of
the 13d of the fame month, declare, «« that the I
yeflels of the United Slates are not comprehended
jn the regulation of the sth of May." M. Le
Brun, the minister for foreign affairs, on the 26th
®f May, communicated this second decree to our £
minister, accompanying it with these Words, " You
will there find anew confirmation of the principles [
from which the French people will never depart,
with regard to their gaod friends and allies the [
people of the United States of America. Yet
two days only had elapsed, before those principles [
■were departed from ; on the 28th of May, the
convention repealed their decree of the 23d. The
owners of a French privateer that had captured a [
very rich American (hip, the Laurens, found means
to effed the repeal, to enable them to keep hold
of their prize. They had even the apparent har
dintfs to fay before hand that the decree of the 23d
tvould be repealed.
The American minister again complained. Sol
on tke ift of July, the convention pafled a fourth [
deciee, again declaring, " That the vefTels of the
United Statesjare not comprised in the regulations [
of the decree of the ninth of May ; conformably to
the sixteenth [it should be called the twenty-third] ,
article of the ti easy concluded the 6th of February,
1778." The new minister for foreign affairs, M. {
_Desforgues, accompanies this new decree of July
1 ft, with the following exprefiion : " I am very
happy in being able to give you this new proof of
the fraternal sentiments of the Ftench people for
their allies, and of their determination to maintain
to the utmost $f their power the treaties subsisting
between the two Republics j" yet this decree pio
red as unliable as the former : on the 17th of July e
it was repealed.
The next decree on this fubjeft was that of the
joint committee of the 15th of November, 1794. F
already mentioned. Then followed the decree of 0
the committee of public fafety of the 4th of Janu- t:
ary, 1795 ('4 Nirsft, 3d year) repealing the sth 1
article in the decree of the 15th November prece
ding, and in effeft the articlts in the original de
cree of the 9th of May, 1793, by which the treaty
with the United States had been infringed. It is
not neceffrry for the Secretary to add, that the
decree of the 4th January, 1795, has been repeal,
pd by the decree of the Executive Diretftory of the
2d ot July, 1796, under colour of which are com
mitted the (hocking depredations on the commerce
of the United States which are daily exhibited in
the aewfpapers. The agents of the Executive Di
rectory to the le? ward islands (Leblanc, Sontho
nax, and the 17th of Noyembfr pas*
fed a decree, marked C, C.) for capturing all A
mcrican vessels bcund to or from British ports. The
fe«retary presumes this i 6 not an arbitrary, unautho- j
jrized aft of their own, but that it is conformable f
to the intentions of the executive dieftory; the 1
privateers of the French republic in Europe, hay
ing captured fom<? American vtffcls on the fame j
pretence ; and the consul of the republic at Cadiz
bavin; explicitly avowed his determination to con
rdemn American vefTels on that ground, pleidjng 1
the decree of the Direftory for his authority. '
The fecretaty has already intimated that the der J
cree of the 15th November 1794, was not follow
ed by the extensively good effedis expeAed from ]
it. By a communication from Mr, Skipwith, of 1
the loth of lad September (the latest conrimunica 1
tion from him, in answer to the secretary's tequeft 1
for information) it appears that the claims for de
tention of 103 American vefTels by the embargo at ,
Bourdeaux remained undetermined : fro funds hav
ing been appropriated for the payment of them ; |
and. tnat none of the hills dtawn by the colonial ad
ministration in the Weft l»dies bad been paid to .
him ; the tre a fury having tendered payment in as
fignats at their nominal value, and afterwards in a- !
nether species of paper, called mandats, which had
fnffered a great depreciation even before they were
put into circulation j both of wlii»h m / Jesof pay
ment were refufed to be accepted. The progress
made by Mr. Skipwith in the adjuftineft of other
claims, so far as known to the fectetary, will up.
peai in the annexed Jatement [D.J copies of which
were tranfmi'ted ten months ago to the officers of
the principal collectors of the customs, from the
department of state, for the information of our
mercantile citizens.
That nothing might be lefj undone which could
be accomplished by the executive, the attention of
Pinckney, the present miniller of the United 1
JStates to France, was particularly directed to the
fubjedt of these claims ; but the interval which has
elapsed since his departure, hss liot admitted of any
in'ereftipg communication from him on this bufi
,nefs.
In connexion with other fp illations by French
atmcd vefTels, the secretary intended to mention
those cwrotnitted under a decree, dated the flrft of
Auguff 17.96, ifToed by Vidor Hugues and Le
bas, the special agents of the executive dire&ory to
the windward iflrnds, declaring all veffcls loa-'ed
with coutraband sirticles of any kind, liable to fei
*ure and confiscation with their entire cargoes ;
without making any discrimination fn favour of
those which might be bound to neutral, or even to
French ports. This decree has been enforced a
jraiaft the American trade without any regard to
the eftabliftied farms of legal proceedings, as will
appear from the annexed deposition [Ej of Jofiah
Hcmpftead, matter of the brigantine Patty ef Wea
thersiield, a copy of the decree marked [F] is also
annexed.
The fcctetary has received a printed copy of a
nother decree of the fame fpeaial agents to the
windward islands, dated the 13th Pluvsife, sth
year, answering to February ift, 1797, authoring
the capture of all neutral vefTels destined to any or j
the windward or leeward Islands, in America,
which have been deliwred up te the Esglifh, and
occupied or defended by emigrants, ramlng Marrii y
niqae, St. Lucie, Tobag<> Dematara, Berbice, and d
Efequibo ; and to leeward, Port-aJ-Prince, St. t
Marc, L'Archaye, and Jeremie ; declaringvfuch t
vefTels and their cargoes to be good prize, as well
as all vefTels cleared out vaguely for the Well In- f
dies, a copy of this last decree, will be added to t
this Teport as soon aj it shall be translated. All h
which is refpeftfully Jubmitted. \
TIMOTHY PICKERINQ. p
Department of State,! t
Feb. 27, 1797. f J
d
THE APPENDIX. e
[A] Copy of a decree of the National Conven
tion 9th May 1793. r
[BJ A letter and report of Mr. Skipwith, Ame- g
rican Consul, on vefTels captured.
[C] Extradt from French deprees of 15th /Nov, f
1794.
[_CCJ Extrail from the resolves of the French
Commiflion at the Leeward Islands of 27th
Nov.
[D] A lift of 170 claims, 4® of which were fet
tled with the French Republic and the re
mainder pending. i
A second lift of claims o« 103 vefTels, £
detained by embargo at Bourdeaux ; these
Skipwith. I
[EJ An affidavit of the commander of the brig- 2
antine Patty. a
[FJ A Placard of Vi&or Hugues, ordering the t
capture of horse; contraband. i
cawwiwimi— HI I' j*' ■•^mxrußsuammmmmmuimKW
i
AND '
Philadelphia Dally Advertlfer. ,
PHILADELPHIA, March j.
A meeting of the Philofnphieal Society will be held thx 5
evening, at their Hall, in Fifth-ftreet.
With this day, the illuflrious Walhington closes his
Political Career* Every Friend to his country will,
on the occasion, ad«pt the energetic language of inspira
tion, an 4 fay,
K WELL DONE, THOU GC OD #ND FAITH- -<
FOI. SERVANT."
At lip the Hill of Life, Time led him on,
Fdmc blew her Trump, and Hope illum'd the day :
Pram the bright Summit, half the Viit'ry won,
A Splendid Course of Glary flop'd th« Way.
New, all Si» labors paflr—th« reward,
A Country fav'd, united (bout his praise j
Jn Vernon's Groves the blsft Retreat's preptr'd.
Where Confcions Life's setting Rays. I
FROM EAST-JWJ3U PAPERS. \
MADRAS, Ang. ,
Arrived, his majesty'« ship rhe Carysfort, hon. captain
Murray, from theSoutbward, with the French National '
feheoner, Le Lefure, of 20 guns, 9 and 6 plunders, and 1
100 men. 1
The Carysfort fell in with Le I.efure off t
on the 19th infant, and captu* 1 li«r after a chafe of near- .
ly three h pr», during which thefchooner threw all her
carriage-guns overboard, twe excepted.
The Ltfure fsiled from the isle of France on the ijd I
ultimo, in company with fix frigates, mounting from 40 t
to jo guns each, and two corvettes. Four'of the frigate« I
v.-ere a part of the squadron which lately failed from |
Frame; and whi<x whiifl: stationed off the Cape, had
captured the Menror, and a whaler front England. The 1
L :fure parted from the French squadron between Dander i
Head and the Eaffea: her objeil was evidently to •btain 1
Int elligencc, and which might have been produ Aive of the 1
mod fatal consequences to the British commerce, had not i
captain Murray defeated the indention of the enemy.
I'he Lelure is a very beautifiil vessel, —American buJl,t,
and has on board flores and provifionß for fix months.
The Caryifort, after having broaght her prize into the 1
roads, immediately failed in quell of the the Indismen 1
lately dispatched from this place, which Ihe was fortunate |
enough to find, and advise of the approach of the enemy's
frigates : the Indiamen instantly put about, but being un
able to regain the roads, after an ineffeitual attempt they
bore away before the wind for Bengal. ]
From th: Calcutta Monthly 'Journal. <
CALCUTTA, Septembet 14.
The American ship Eflex arrived in the river from the
coast, the 9th inft. She left Madras roads the 17th lilt.
When the Eflex failed from Madras, the enemy's fllips
w»re hourly expetSed to make their appearance ; nnd the
(hipping in the roads had hauled in shore, te have the prp-
of the gu n s of the Fort.
Arrivsd, American ship Neptune, from Madras.
Several American veflets have arrived here from difter
| ent poi», in the tonrfe of this month, but none of them
have any particular intelligence, except one from
the Fran e, which brings accounts of the French
frigate La Preneufe, having returned to the island from a
cruize in the Straits ©f Sunda, with a very valuable pnne,
a Portuguese fliip, which flie had captured in rliofe ftraitl.
1 She i« called the St. fofeph de IJelafaire, failed from Lif-
I bon the a&th of March, bound to China, and had on
board 215,000 dollars in specie, besides a valuable carg*.
The Krench squadron, daring the paflage from Europe
to the Mauritius, captured the Montrofe, rice-ship, the
Arabia, laden with bales,.for Lisbon, a South Whaler,
and the filiza, an Anieriean vessel, freighted with Dutch
property, off the Cape.
The onee celebrated £ark SNDEA VOUfi, in which
Captain COOK performed his Fiift Voyage round the
World, near thirty years apo, now lies te be broken up
in Ml • firignion's Dock, near Chandpayl Ghaut.
September
LIST OF THE FRENCH SQUADRON
Which engaged hismajefty's ship ViAorious, of 74 guns,
on the Coromanael coalt, the 9th of September.
La Forte, 54 guns
LaJCybele, 44
Le V ictar,
La Seine, 44
Ls Prudente, ' , 40
La Regenei ce, 40
La I.cfurt, a corvette of 10 guns, captured by hisma
jefty's ship Carysfort, of a 8 guns, belonged also to this
fquiflrpa.
Oftober 7.
Last week, the (hip Marquis Cornwall!*, Cap
tain Hogan, arrived in the river, from New South
• Wales:—fnefailed from Port Jackson on the 16th
1 May.
; The Cornwallit brings very pleasing accounts
t from the CoiA.ny at Port Jackson. —Pioyifions ol
, all forts were in abundance—The agricultural ex
-3 cnioQi of tbe iettiers bad been fucc«f«ful» even be
yond tfi? fsTiguine expeflati'ons that had been !n- t
dulged. And such »as the pivgrcffion of indul I
try in this line, riiat the neeeffiy of further impor v
tatipnsof grain was entirely fuperfpHed. e
Mr, Muir, one of the four S-ottifh exiles whose. t
fate was so much a fuhjedt of cgnverfttieri about t
two years ago, had left New South Wales. He v
had taken his paffagc in a vefll-1 bound to the North t
Weft Coast of America, from whence it was sup li
posed he intended to pafa over to the territory of t
the United Slates. It is not undetftood that Mr.
M-iir had claudeftinely left the colony. His con- i
dust while there was fqch as tp conciliate universal f
esteem. c
Mr. Margarot and Mr. Skirving, both died at 1
New South Wales. They also bad been diftin- I
guifhed for a very examplary behaviou>. c
Mr. Palmer alone, of the Scotch Judgments, t
survived at the Colony of Rose Hill. I
■« BBUMKBIBIIIiW i ■■• ■ ■ C
By this" day's Mails. )
NEW YORK, March ?. i
The death of Governor Campbell, of Bermuda, t
ii cpninwed ; and so i 9 that efthe Emprcfs of Ruf- i
lia.
The prifopers confined in the jail of this city re- c
ttjrn their grateful thanks to Mr. De la Croix, for) i
his generous donation of a paltry dinner, on the [
26th os-last month, which enabled near ope hundred t
and eighty persons to celebrate, with decent feftivi- t
t'y, the auspicious birth day of the illpftrious Wash- 1
ington.
New York, March 2. 1
ARRIVED. Days. .
Brig Jamej, Watson, * St Thomas, 19 1
Sloop Romeo, Baker, Charleftofi, 7
The Ruby, from London to Charlelton was tak- I
en by a French privateer, in lat. 23, and erdered I
for St. Doming® ; but Capt. Smith and his crew ;
rose on the prize mailer, and brought the yefTcl iptp
Charleston. 1
ANTIGUA, fan. 24.
On Thursday morning the 13th Nov. the Port- 1
land Packet failed from Dominica, for Antigua, ia 1
corrpany with the Neptune brijj, and Atalants '
fchopner. Ort Friday the 14th, frll in. with and | 1
fpofce hismajefty's ship Eap«'i»g, company wi:h 1
the Mermaid and Laurel frigates ; as it was quite 1
-calm, and but little appearance of a breexe, captain
Taylor went op board the J .zpwing ta request she
would convoy us clear of Guadeloupe, being then 1
within fix leagues of BafTcterre, and having much
reason to apprehend that some of the French priva
teers might come out, and availing themselves of the 1
falsi, attack the packet:—the captain of the Lap. i
wing told him, he could not confidently with his
etders, convoy or grant us either of the other sri- 1
gates for that pwrpefe, but that he would |ieep be
tween us and the land, by way of pro-e&ian, at the
fame timr he juforraed us, that there were then in
Basseterre, three large frigates, two corvettes, a
brig, cuttpr, and feycral privatfcn—the next day
we found oyifclves within about four leagues of .
BafTcterre, and not one of the frigates or any other
eiuifer in fight.—The enemy did not, however, to
our furptife, fend out any tlijng agjinft us. On 1
Sunday the 16th mft.faw a 1 ifrge (hip close in with
the ha.il, under which we were (jlill becalmed, and <
at the fame tim* saw a ft range fail bearing down on
the Atalanta (chooner, wiikh proved so be a French
privaieer, full bf men, and yvould certainly have
taken the schooner, had not the large ship under the
land hove in fijht, upon which vy® immediately
bore away—a light breeze lpringing up, the (hip
which we then perceived was evidently a ship of war
gave ms chafe, (hewed no colours, and about 8
o'clock at night caice up wi'h, and fired a (hot at
us, upon which w« dire&ly hove too and hoisted
our slag—she then yawed up clufe on our bow, and
fired feveralfhot at us, through our rigging and our
fore-topfuil, upon which we instantly hauled down
our colours, and she sent her boat on board, when
to our great aftoniihment we found it was his Majes
ty's ship Thunderer, instead of an enemy, as we had
evety reafi'it) to suppose. '
Upon his demanding why we did not hoist the
packet signal, Capt. Taylor informed him that the
captain of the Lapwing had particulatly cautioned
him against doing so under the land, as the signals
were well known to the French on shore, besides
that h' - had supposed from hi# coming out so close
from under the land, and (hewing no colours, that he
was one of the French (hips of war. The next day
about three o'clock in the afternoon, being then
becalmed about three leagues off the north end of
Guadaloupe, and 110 Eiiglifh cruiser whatever in
fight,'we descried a schooner coming out from
the land, and bearing down faft upon us, —by 6
o'clock ftie had neared us so much, at to eDable us
to discover that th.e was full of men, and had about
30 sweeps out—a light breeze fpringtng up, we
tacked and bore away towards Montferrat, to get
rid of the shore, and she still followed, every now
and then edging down towards u$ to reconnoitre,
and so on duting the whole night.
On Tijefday morning the 18th, at day ligiit, be
ing then about 6 leagues from Montferrat, the
schooner that had been watching us all night, edged
down gradually upon us, and captain Taylor then
evidently perceived tli»t (he was a large French pri
vateer, got ?ll ready for aAion, requeflin-g the geh
tlemen passengers on board, who a<Sea| as marines
on the quarter deck, and the men to conceal them
selves, ib order that /he might not observe our force
until she came along pde—about 7 o'clock, she be
ing then within a mulket (hot upon our (larboard
quarter, we hoisted our colours and gave her a gun,
upon which she hoisted the national and the bloody
flags on her maiiij and gave us a broadside ; after
exehanging a few more (hot from the great guns,
he refoiutely bore down, and hauling up close under!
our Hern, laid herfelf on our larboard quarter, and
made a most desperate attempt to board t weinftant
• ly lashed her bowsprit to oar main (hrouds, and fe
• cured her fore rigging to our mizeu, and a steady
1 and well directed fire of mufquetry was opened up
on them, while they were attempting to force them
» selves into the quarter gallery and cabin windows,
f and up the netting. In this situation, locked to
- gether for about 50 minutes, every effort was made
c with the utmost determination 00 both fides, they
even throw'ng their j. f/lols, after firing them, at guf
lieadi, and polling us with round liiot. Fortunately
we being covered by qur quarters, and they beinjr
entirely expof<*d, gave us the moll decifivc advan
tage, insomuch that her deck was ftrew'cJ frqm jletn
to stern with the bodigj of tbeii killed and
when they llruck their colours, whi< h was done at
the inftqnt yye were flipping doiyn the fidcato board
her. Upon taking poffeflion of her, (hy proved t« b$
the Tcmeraire, of Guadaloupc, a fine Virginia bailt
yeflT'l, mounting fix carnage guns, quite new, ana
in all refpefts completely provided ahd cquipped-r
---fhe was commanded by one Piere Toulon, and had
on board 68 fighting men, out qf which i I were
killed, and 29 wounded, the greater part mortally ;
she was reckoned by far the faflelt failef from Gua
daloupe, and would certainly have got away wit'll
the greatest ease, had not the precaution, at firll ta
ken, of fecaring her, prevented her so doing—on
our part it is with the mod poignant grief, we have
to relate the deaths of Capt. Taylor, and Mr. Sa
muel Cunningham of St. Vincent's, who were the
only two killed in the adlion—the captain received,
ii( the very foment of vidory, a muflcet ballthro'ii
the heart while exhorting to conquest, and exhibit
ing htrnfelf the foremofl and most heroic example
—strange likewise to tell, we have but two' wound
ed, one of whom was capt. Maxwell of the 93d
regiment, (lightly on the knee. We have carried
her jntp Montferrat, where it is needles* to add,
that the utmeft attention and Iwminity were (hewn
to the wounded, and the bodies of our dead inter
red with hoaourj.
The gentlemen, passengers on board, were cap
tains Jolmfon, of the 3d Buffs, Rainey, of the
46th, Touin, of the 48th, and Maxwell of th«
93 d regiments Mr. Ingram, of Maitinique, nuefTrs,
Keane, Jackson and Cunningham, of St. Vincent,
baund to England. MefTrs. Ofburn, Furnace and
Silk of Antigua. Doftors Gieen and Ludlow,
i and Mr. Boyd, of Martinique, island paffengert.
I It certainly was a lucky circumllanee fotjhe pack
| et, that they were so numerous, as the brunt of the
| action chiefly f«ll upon them, from their station on
| the quarter deck ; the seamen at their quarters, be
i ing unable to use their great guns, and but few of
them having ftnal! arms ; they however on this, as
they have ever on all other similar occalions had
j their (hare of merit, making use of the only arms
they had, their boarding pikes where they could
reach, and with the true potnifti spirit, pelting the
ammunition which they Could not fire, at ttye heads
of thtir antagonilts.
| By 'he m3il buat Fanny Barton, capt. Tapper^
! arrived o» Saturday Jafl, we learn that the Carib|
of St. Vincents, have all funendered to the num
ber of about 3500 of all descriptions, but that thejr '
1 were dying of a raging diflentery, 30 or 4c of <9
day,
CHARLESTON, February tB.
A number of loaded Ihips, dcflined for foreign
ports, have been detailed here a long time, and are
ilill detained for the want of sea letters. A mer
cantile cprrefpondjnt, who feels himfelf materially
intereftefl, is fomeft'hat aSonilhcd at the calmneli
with which the worthy and very attentive federaf
officers of this port fuffer the odium of this
to reft upon themselves. It cannot certainly be
owing to a want of vigilencp and forefight in'thele
ffic.rs ; but the blsme will undoubtedly continue
to fall upou them, until they do themselves the jus
tice to poiut oi)t th« department from whose njjgleft
the grievance arises. One would suppose hat the
merchant? of the United States were fufficiently
embarrassed by the meaftires of foreign' govern*
mente, without being fotced to submit ta an evil of
such magnitude thr^ ? the negleftf <?f she officers of
their own.
Philadelphia, March 3.
By a document, laid before Coijgrefs yesterday,
it appears that rettirns from the Officers required by
law to (late the number of seamen regifttred, and
imprefTed by the belligerent powers, have been com*
paiitively few, and imperfeft ; the following is ao
abftrsft of the numbers imprefTed so far as yet
known officially.
j 6 who ?re called citizens of the Uniteji
States.
g citizens of MafTacbufetts.
6 ditto - Rhode-Island.
2 ditto • New-York.
4 ditto - Pennsylvania.
2 ditts - Delaware. 1
-» 3 ditto - Maryland.
1 ditto - Virginia.
Citizens 42
12 Britifti fubjeSs.
36 Foreigners, of other countries than
Great Britain.
27 whose country is unknown.
In all 107 exclusive of 34 Irish passengers.
ARRIVED.
Schr. Telegraph Venneman Curracea. 21 days.
Capt. Vcnnerr.an of the Schooner "Telegraph, failed
from Curracoa Feb. 6th. and left there the following
vejfels.
Ship Mary of New Tojl, arrived Feb.
Brig Mary Ditto Ditto 2nd.
Schr. Crafus 40<impbtll Ditto ready for Sea.
Louifa Tucker Ditto.
Name unknown Ditto-
Brig Betsy of Charleflon to failfor the Havannah.
—Feb. 12th Spofe the Brig two Jiflers Watts, from
New York ta Jamaica ; the Capuand Crew of the
■ fioop Hope, belonging to Philadelphia were ou board
| the Brig—Which was cajl away three days before on
. Henega, the wind blew very frefh, which prevented
Copt. Vennemanfrom learning the particulars.—Tht
r Telegraph was brought to in Crooked ljland Paffagt
by a French privateer, who after examining her pa
. pers, dfmijftd her.
' A Woman Cook, -*
WHO can be well recommended, may hear of a goo#
c place by cut(uiiin( of the Priater,
f February 17. JJhSgw,Particular Teneriffe Wine.
JO Quarter-Calks Particular Teiieriffe WINE,
Of a superior Quality,
For falc by A. MARPLE t5" IS. W. MORRIS;
No. 60 Dock-street.
February 8 wf&miqt
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second street.
I MCKETS m the Canal Lottery, No. a, for falfl—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Chccii Books kept for examination and registering, for
the City df Washington, No. 2, and Paetefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be hai, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber folictr* the application <sf the puhjic
and his friends, who with to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
erJ;i fi ca tes. Bill* of Exfhaage or Notes, Heufes, Lands,
ccc. or to obtain money on deposit of property-
# Also f icfccts ii] the Schjuydltill Bfidfjc L'>?tcrv for
laie at Ten Dollars e-ach, which will be drawn early in
the Spring.
IVm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, January 26, 1797. mth '
SWAN N\S
Riding School, Horse Academy li? Infirmary,
Adjoining tl» Pwhlic Squire. Market Str«et.
T. SWANN
x. fihcerc thanks tothofe gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, during'hisrefidencc in this City, ajid
himfelf thai the of his effoiis, in the numerous,
Ob innate and dangerous difcafrs in Horses, in which he has
been consulted, together with his moderate charge*, will (e
---ure their faturefavors and recommendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
that hisfpacious and commodjous prtmifes, ere6>ed for the
purposes above defer;bed are open for the reception of pupils
°F either lex, who wi(h ;o beinflructed iiKthe Art of Riding,
and tne l ight method of governing their horses, so as to ride
them with cafe, elegance, and fafety—their horfei will be
carefully and expeditiouily broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient tot he will of the riders ; the natural powers
which are shut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
( fOTth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all those beauties of a£*i„n which providence has to bounti
fully bestowed on them.
hospital, every difordcr to which the horse is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility ol the above inftitulion has never been qneftion
ed»that it has long been wanted in this city, everv gentleman's
itud will manifeft, and T. Swann as thefiift of
tne veterenary art, solicits and relics upon the support of that
public (which he iiever anxious in serving) to enable him to
ring it to pcrfe£lion. The it ca of a fubfeription for that ■
purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who wish to
promote the institution—the amount of each fubfeription to
be returned by services in any of the profeffes,
agreeable to the rate of charges slated in his hand bill. Such
fUblcription is now open, and the signatures of many refpea
abie gentlemen already obtained. He therefore imorms his
ll'u 5 aßd / ucl ? and gentlemen to whom he has not !
the honor of being known, that he lhall in a few days take !
the liberty of waiting upon them and folicking their support i
and prote&ion.
N. B. Horses arc properly prepared* for those Ladieiand
Gentlemenwho wish to be inftru&ed.
Nqv 5- tth&f.
Will be Sold, by Public Vendue,
On the gth ef March next,
A PLA NTATION,
IN Ridley township, Delaware county, state of Penn
sylvania, eleven miles from Philadelphia, and one from
the great road leadiwgthence to Chester ; containing one
hundred and twenty-three acres, twenty-three of which
are woodland, ajsd eighteen meadow. On the premises
there are, a dwelling-hoiife, barn, and other out*houfes,
in good repair ; a good fpringof Water close to the house,
and a fine ftjeam of water runs through the premifesby
which part of the meadow is watered, &c.
, ALSO,
On the Tame day, the stock on the iaid farm eonfift
lng of horses, cows, flieep, hogs, &c. A cart, plough,
harrow, and other farming utensils ; also a large copper
fti-1, with the household and kitchen furniture, among
which are beds and bedding, an eight day clock, and ma
ny other articles too tedious to mention.
The sale to begin-at ten o'clock in the forenoon, where
the conditions will be made known, and attendance gi-ven
cn the prtmifes, by CURTIS LEIVIS.
Ridley, February 1% 14—tthftM 9
SAMUEL RICHARDET
TD ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
A Merchants, that he has this day opened the GITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS OOFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia:
The Subscription Room will be furniihed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, flof
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial citits of Europe—-They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away On any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
©f French Liquors; together with the usual refrefnments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with ]
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mofl ;
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will be fupplicd with the prime and earliest i
productions of the Season. (
I. arge and small Forties, or single Gentlemen, may be
accoiaaiodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at t
hours most convenient to themselves—-a cold Collation is <
regularly kept for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had :
at the bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and t
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other i
rcquifite.
gj* Simuel Rich arpet will be happy to receive, and (
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
■fcimfelf that nothing on his part fhailbe wanting to pre- i
fcrve that patronage with which he has beenio distinguish- a
'snored. x
Philadelphia, April 19. mw f
To the Benevolent. f
r | 'HE Subscriber having rented 'that well known tav- F
± ern house, on Silver Springs, Cumberland county, 4
on the great road leading from Philadelphia to Fort Pitt,
wjjich he had completely furnifhed for the accommodation a
of travellers, but which unfortonatelji, by accident caught a
fire about It o'clock in the morning, the 3d of Novcm
kcr last, and in the {jpace of one hour was totally confum- w
ed with all the furniture, wearing apparel, (lores of li- E
quors, &c. te a veryJarge.amount, ati'e»ded with the me- ''
lancholy loss of a daughter aboiit twelve years of age 31
who only survived a few hours after the fire ; his wife ai- d
so disabled; and others of his family much hurt ; he is
bow reduced to an unhappy and dellitute fitua'iom—he
therefore begi leave to solicit some relief from a generous
public. I'he following gentlemen are pleased to undertake
the trouble to solicit and receive fubferiptions for his be- W
»efit: viz. Samuel Richardet, Merchants'Cofiec-Houfe ; tu
James Thompson, Indian Queen; George Irwin, Crols at
Keys, in Fourth-street, and John Dunwoody, Spread £a- c\
tie, High-street. DAVID BRIGGS. at
Philadelphia, February 14 tth&ftM3 til
+++ The other Printers ate requested to publish the above da
. J Wants a Place,
AS WAITER in a gentleman's Houie, a young man
who has lived for a cenfiderable time in feme of the
firft hcufes in the city, and whose character is sure; or
would engage with a single gentleman to attend on him.
Dirc&ionsleft at the Ne»v York and Baltimore stage
— office, No. 10, south 4th, near Market ft feet, for R. H.
will be attended to. February r 4
_ a PURSUANT to a Resolve of the Board of Trustees of
: n Wa-ihik«ton Academy, in Somerset County, and
State of Maryland,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
0 That the office of Principal Teacher in the laid school is
~ s » vacant.
r<r A GENTLEMAN qualified to teach the higher Greek and
A Latin ClafTics, C-eography, and the Mathematics, with
v- f*ch other of literature as are usually taught in fueh
or schools, would meet with liberal encouragement, and, it is
believed, would obtain a very eligible settlement. For the
lie present, the Trustees would We willing to contra# with a per
k, on capable ot taking charge of a Grammar S hool.
] 8) A«this Inditution is provided wiih buildings fufficient to
accommodate the principal and his family, and from seventy
or te eighty boy* j a library, ah excellent phlofophical a: d ma
in themalical apparatus, globes, maps, &c; has refpeftabte
funds, and is fitoated'in a plentiful and agreeable part of the
country ; nothing seems wanting to make it rank among the
most ufeful feminariesin this pari of »he Union, but a fuitablc
chara&er to picfide in it.
Proposals may be addrefled to the fubferibef, in Prtncefs-
Anne, in the neighborhood of the Academy, or to Do&or
Martin L HAfNis, No. 83, north Third-street,
delphn, or to the Printer hereof.
EZEKIEL HAYNIE,
January ao. Feb. 7 . tu&fßw
m ' " ■
£ Davis's Law Book-store
as > No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
c . GEORGE DAVIS announces to his piofeffional friend*,
and the CentJemcn of the Law, generally, through the
Union, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arrange
ed, and ready for Sale, from a fWigle volume to aa entire ii
ils brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding Jow
g, prices, which forfcveral years paA have in so diftinguiihed a
maimer recommenced them to notice,
ac . tinted Catalogues combining the most extensive collet.
id on cf the latest Englilh and Irilh Editions ever imported
rs into this coyntry, are pub l i (bed, and will be delivered grans
j on application.
a j Orders addrcfled to G. Di. in writing from any distance
j_ rWa 11 be punftuaLly attended to.
A number of TRUNKS for Sale. *
is ALSO, TO BE LET,
, d A convenientLLOFtT t near Market Street Wharf.
- ov - 8 - tu&f 3 v
)f s By Authority,
at Schuylkill Bridge Lattery.
£ Stid by IVILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. <5 4 ,
o South Stcond-Jlrcct.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
1' raising Sixty Jlioufand Dollars, agreeably to an A6t ol
the Legiflatur* of Penn|ylvaai«, pailed during the )a(t
lellion, for bailding a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, is the County of
' Berks - . r Dollar..
i Prize of 20,000 Dollars - ao,do©
1 do. of I©,ooo do. • . io|ooo
. 3 do - of S» 000 do. . . . 15,000
4 do. of a,oo« do. . Brooo8 rOOO
ao do. of 1,000 do. . _ ao,ooo
39 do. of 500 do. 19,500
8© do. of 200 do. . . „ 16,000
200 do. of 100 do. ; . . . 30 ,00e
300 do. 'of 50 d 6. - . 15,000
1 do* of 500 do. to be paid the pollcf- )
1- for f the firft drawn no.)
n 5 do* of 3»®®° do. to be paid poiTciTors )
e of the five tail drawn oos *s'®°°
h S»4 C 0 do. o 15 do, ; . 141,000
, s —■— .
10,054 Prizes 000,000
19,946 Planks ,
< 30,000 Tickets at Ten Dcllars 300,000 *
All Prizes /hall be paid fifteen days after the drawing i$
I finifhed, upon the demand of a poUePor ©f a fortunate
picket, fubjrft to a dcdu&ion of twenty per cent. The
, Drawing will commence as foorwas the Tickets are difpofrd
r of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will begiven.
? Philip Miller, Peter Kcrjh ner, William IVilman, '
Joseph H'tejter, J'mes Dicmtr, Thomas Dundtis, I
, James May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Gracf,
, Sebajtian Miller, Commissioners.
.Reading, May the gth, i 7 qS.
Ticketi in the Canal Lottery, No. t, to be had at the
. above office, where the earliest intormation of the draw
ing of the Washington No. s, and Patterfon Lottery's,
are received, and check books for examination and regif
teringare kept.
Tickets in the above Lottery t. be had nt Mr, Sheri
dan s Race-street, John Hay, North Third-street and
Henry Sw.yer's, German Town,
January 26 nwtf
Lancajler, Harrijburgb, Carlijle, Ship
penjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
The public are receded to take notice, that the part
nership which has for some time fubfifttd betweaw IViathi
as Sloughs Lancaster, and William Geer, is uo-tv dillol
ved . but, not as M. Slough infinuatcs to the public
without jwft cause ;as willmore fully appear by a-letter 1
on the fubjeft from M. Slough t. W. Geer, datpd the ;
19th December last. a recital of which is not now deemed 1
neceflary. Any gentleman who wilhes to be more cir- ]
cumftantially iniermed of the merits of this buiinefs, by ]
applying to W. Geer may have the perulal «f M. Slowgh's J
letter, and then can be at full liberty to determine whet
ther or not W. Geer is not perfeAly juftifiable in attach- 1
ing himfelf to any other person in the profrcution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippeniburg, 1
or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the public I
were pleased to confer 011 the firft effort in this bufmefs, h
William Geer, in conjunction with Meflrs. Reily, Weed
and is determined to prosecute and carry it on, 1,
with every care, attention and dispatch that a zeal to o
blige the public can poflxbly exert.
1 lie above company, who are amply provided t with .
carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to render the
passage fafe and commodious, inform thofc who wifb to
patronize and encourage the undertaking, that they can
take their leats at George Weed's, the lign of the White
I lorfe, Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harriiburg, Carlisle
and Shippeniburg. The fare as hitherto eftabliflied. t i
For the further accomniedation ol the public, a Stage f.
will start every Wednesday from the house of Samuel tl
tlder, iH Harrilburg, arrive at Sunlsury in Northnmber- 3(
land couiity, every Thursday, and return from theycc and
ai rive at Harrifburg evei y Saturday, so that passengers p
destined for Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed en ,i
Mondays.
WILLIAM GEER. u
Lancaster, Jan. 17, 1797. t
N. B. This Line of Stagas ftarta from the house of £c
William Ferree, in Lancaster, on every Tueiijay and Sa- tl
turday morning at 6 o'clock, proceeding to the westward; rr
and from the house of Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg ce
every Wednesday morning, 00 the fame evening arrives ol
at Patrick Cochran's in Shippeniburg, and returns frem
thence onevcry Thursday : performing i the fame rtftitine
daily as in its. tour frooi Philadelphia. ' , mwf
1 Washington Lottery. 1
, n TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
le «chinj«d for prizes, at the Office, No. ,47, Chefaut
,r 1 • where a correct Numerical Book is kept for public
infpe>ftion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
changed for prizes di avva in. the Washington Lottery, of
1. the 60th and 6l(l u1 ys returns are received.
t'S The Business of a Broker carried on a? ufuat.
January i». ttstf
'd TO THE PUBLIC. ~~
various reports have been fabricated
VV and propagated by evil and maliciously disposed
18 ptrfons tending to injure and destroy my reputation,
a.lerlging that a traveller called at my house who I «n
---th to d*ftroy with a view to obtain hi 3 proper
,h l T ! at other times represent the tale m n different
j s manner, according at ignorance or mi lice may happen
, e to dilate. It must appear extraordinary to every ira
r partial man that it them was the lead truth or founda
t.ion in fi)ch villainous reports, that the perfoa injured
to foott.M never apply to the law for redrofs—no man hath
'V aright to complain «r my conduS as au tnn-keeper—
=' if there are any such, let them come forward and I
"Will iM«e 'hem luch compensation as indifferent per
!lC join shall fay they are entitled to—and not aflaffin like
.le "• IIJ "'7 iuthedark— mycondufl in thebu-
i follow will bear the itricleit invtjtigation ; and
k- I defv li my aceufers to eome forward and before the
or public support any charge of confeq ien«e, orwhich will
leflen nie in the opinion of the people. I have with
confid«rable trouble and expence tnd«av'oured to trace
the various reports to their oV'igin, and jrom tie best
information 1 can obtain, a principal part of them ori
ginated with a worthless fellow wlio called himfelf Ja
cob Gardner, who pretending to be a clock-maker
wandered through the country in the penfecitiou of
!«,• W» tnrfhwfiv I thank my former cuftwrnera for their
' ac ravours, and alTur« all those who shall !n future call
l'- <ny house that theyihall as heretofore receive the
i- best accommodations and treatment in my power.
JOSEPH PEARSON,
» Delaware C»«nty, J
Ridley Townlhip, Feb. it, 1797. }
& n W / lhe »"derfi gn «d are well acouai*ed with Joseph
. f reanon, above nam«d, and are fully of opimen that
, the \anon:, reports heretofore propagated to his preju
„ j dree are utterly- taife and without the least foundation
in truth. .
' | John Pear/in, Aaron Oakford, Richard Lloyd, Sfl
j muel AJh, Jacob Serrill, Jacob Gibbon, Ada™ Ditbl,
j Benjamin Pafchall, I. Lebollay, John Sellers, Oborn
Garret, Rubard Willing, Hugh Lloyd, I/roc 1 Elliott,
Dav" Sevan, Abraham JDicis, JeJe Biekcrton, George
J J' rce 'P'' rce < 7- Cdenbciiner, inn. Samuel
1 „/' r , £ur " J ' Richar <i Nathan Peimetl,
i'.cfet Pclmrr, JVilHam Hannum, Mark IVillfun, Tho
•r, mas H' tlhox, UVUam Trimilt, jim. Nicholas Fair/ami,
JoJ(fjt Khoads, Abraham Shtrfles, Edward ttood
ivara, Jonathan Morris, Edward Hunter, William
>i i d Z"r ," J",?" U ' M "' 3°'™ Cra er > Werral,
(l /. H'ttby, Hell,am Martin, Charles Grantham, P.
, r Bennett, Curtu Lo%unes, Jefeph Pencil, Daniel Sharp
>f "" ' <UI Thomas Ne<wlin, George Hunter, |
*• J° h * p r °Jh* P «' r Hill, William Pennoek, James
o Knomjies, William Kerlin, John Co»per, Martin Riger,
0 Thomas Garrett, Bevekiab Hibherd, Thomas Levis,
" Nathaniel Nejwhn, Benjamin W. Gakford, Joseph ihaUA
trojs, fen. William Weft, Jonas Prejlon,
a Februir y iaw3
0 ' ■
1 Lately Imported,
3 A nr>w op'ning for Sale, by the Box or finglcream,
J ®' DAVIES, at No. 68 Market-ftrcet, anaffort
-3 m«nt of ENGLISH PAPER,
j —CONSISTING
- Printing Pjper, of an excellent quality, both Medi
-1 um and Demy
| Wt Ditto, of vcrious sizes aod qualities, as
- j Imperial Thick and«hin
J Sspt-r-Rojal P„ft > / cut, fit
" | R-oya' Foolscap, common ( ,!° r
- Medium, common Ditto wove J olhces.
j Ditto wove for drawing Pott
• Demy, commen Thick and thin 4 to poft.plaiij
, Ditto, wove gilt black-edged
Denhy aud foo'fc marble paper'
. A general assortment of the neatefl Sta
tionary Waie, a variety of maps, charts and plans, and
a valuable collection of BOOKS in the English, French,
Greek and Latin languages. As he intends to decline the'
Book-trade, he proposes to rlifpofe of his stock of Books
on hand at reduced prices, for cash or approved notes; £a ■
of the books may be had at the fame place.
.February S3 th&fgw
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be re- ''
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Troafury 1
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en- '
fuirig, for the Supply of all rations which may he required 1 '
for the ul'e of the United States, from the firft day of ! J
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the places and within the diftridts
after weutioucd, viz. At Oiwego; at Niagara; at '
Paefque lfie; at Sandufi:y Lake, and on Sandufky a
Rivar; at Detroit; at Michilimackmac< at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cin.einn.ltl; at Fort-Hamilton;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfon; at Grenville; at "
Picque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at'
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ;at any pUce br Fort
Defiance on the Miami Ri.ver to. Lake Eric; at Fort
Steuben ; at Fort Maflac ; at auy place from Fort Mallac
to the foutk boundary of tjie United States on the river
Miflifippi ; at fort Knox ; at Oui&tanon. j
If supplies (hall be requirtd for any polls or places not
-rnentionsd in this notice, all such lwpplies fha.ll be fur
ijiflied at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
pofU before recited, or as may »e hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the Contra&or.
The rations to be supplied arc to consist of the fol
lowing articles, viz. ai
One pound two ounces of bread #r flour. si
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whifliey.
One quart and half a pint of fait.
Two quartyef Vinegar, / , ,
Two pounds of Soap, ( P" hundred r W
One pound of Candles, J
The rations are to be furniilied infnrh r;u»ntities, as that
there shall at all times during the said term, be fuilicieut
for the confuinptionof the troops at Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix montha in -
advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term of
at least three months in advance, in good and wholesome T
provisions, if the fame stall be required. It is to be un® |
derftoad, that the Contractor isto be at the exf ente and o
i-ifc of issuing the supplies to the troops at each post, and
that all losses fuftain«d by the depredations of an enemy, or
by mianj of the troops of the United States, lhall be paid al
Cor at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the depositions of two or more persons of creditable cha
racters, and the certificate of a commiflioncd officer,,af
certaißing the circumstances of the loss, and the amouat
of the ai ticks for which compenfatioß shall be claimed p
.OLIVER WOLCOTT,
S««rctary of tiie Treasury.
StMj
Partnerftiip difTolved. ,
> T H[S 1S t0 notif y the Publie, a "d all perfonsconcerned.
c A that the Partnership of SLACK fc 3 WELLS, deal-,
ers ia Dry Goods, wasdiffolvedme firft of January last.
>f ~ HO BERT BLACK.
Philadelphia, February 14, 1737 t 3 w
For Sale
__ P r w&t£ contrary a very valuable EJiate, known by
the name of
j CHATHAM,
MOST delightfully situated on the north bank of Rap
,l pahanock river, opposite the town of Fredericklburg, in
- j , e °f^i r gi n »a» coafifting of eleven or fifteen hun
dred acres, as may best suit the purchaser. There is on
this eflate, a large and well built brick house, containng
nine commodious rooms, exclusive of a spacious hall or en
1 try, aa feet square, two pair of stairs, suitable and conven
-1 lf nt ? ai^ d « xcei J e nt <iry cellars. It is placed on a
' fine healthy eminence, commanding beautiful views in
every dire&ioa over the towns of Frederickfburgh and
- Falmouth, and an extensive cultivated country. The
I grounds adjoining the house are neatly laid out in pleas
•- ure end kitchen gardens interfpetfed with a variety of
;e trees, a choice colle<ftion of flowers and flowering
{" rubs ' and enriched by various forts of-the following
d iruits, via apples, pearj, walnuts, chefnuts, cherries,peach
,e es, plumbs, neaarines, apricots, grapes, figs, rafberriet.
If goofebernes, ftrawberries,and currant 9; the whele adroi
li yaned by turfed slopes which have been formed bv
, e great labour and expence. Bordering upan these ira
ft pr°veme ß ts,areleveral lots, in a higliftate of cultivation,
i- in . d . * ei ' fct Wlth red clover and orchard grass, from
whlcn threeheavy cro P »of)uy are taken every year. Ad
ir J actnt ">ereto are two large and flourifhing orchards ; o'no
,f o' w «"ehofen-peach trees, the other of apple and pear,
trees, fexdedfrom the best nurseries in" the state. Pro-,
perly from the manflon house are extenfiv®
roomy offices of every denomination, viz a Kitchen and
Larder, house-keeper s room and Laundry, with a cellar
underneath for a variety of pnrpofes, a ftore-1 oufe and
smoke houfe_ all ofbrick, a dairy and fprisg houftof stone.
otables for thirty horles, and coach houses for four ca--
rwges. A!fo a large and well planned farm .yard, with
t r " a " d S raHar y, acow hnnfe, with separate ;ftal!s for
it thirty-fix grown cattle; apartments for fattening veals.
muttons and lambs ; extensive sheds for Jhcep, and other
1 »rfang«ment» for stock of every deftription, with a bree
and convenient rcccpcabie for provender, from which they
t . ca.ii be furnilhcd v. ltliout being exposed to the inclemency
I, of ' he w _An overseer's house, blacksmith's Ihop,
n an «l'-artcrs fufficient to accommodate in the best man
s ner more than fifty labourers.
J The arable lands arc fa advantageously divided as to af
.j ' rd an opportunity of making a large quantity of Indian
, forn annually, without bringing the field in; o similar cul
.tarj oftner thaß °n £ e in four years; confidently the
. lands may be improved by kecp.ng up the incisures during
; I the intermediate years, or may be beneficially fallowed for
„ ! "heat and other grain at the option of the proprietor.
, ! ° n ' h L c » »lfo a teerehant mill with one
■> j pair of best French burr t tones, and one pair of Cologne •
. lurnithed with modern machii.evy, and now leafed so? the
- ; unexpired term ol four years, at 1501 per annum, and all
, grain for the life of the farm, hopper free, *vhich is ne«r
---i ly iool. more, fhs mill and miller',houfe are built of
, free stone, within a very small diftancc of navigation, near
, to which are two or more valuable lHhcries, and a well
atcu / t «'" e < 1 fe"y over the Rappahannock to-the town of
Fredenckfburg. 1 he land contains incithauflibk' aiiarrief
0 f f £ » n enear to the river, is plentifully fuppliedwith
- remarkable fine water and poiTeffes a due proportion of
meadow which by having the comman-1 of water may
be cgnfiderably increased. The roads arc good, and the
neighbourhood genteel and foe,able. In fad, exclusive of
. an improveable and well conditioned farm, the value and
smolument mfeparably tfoi,needed witn a mi!!, ferries,
MienesanJquarriescligihlyfltuated; th S profits atiting
from an ice-house inferior to .none in the state, and a ;rar.
_ den of four acres so abundantly stocked with vegetablet
01 all forts as f®lly equal to the demand in market,
th -re might be detailed many other advantages, apper
taming to the fertility of these lands, which the"i'ubferiber
t conceives itunneceffary to mention, being f»lly convinced
that when eifamined, it will be found to be a complete,
• P lr >''aat and healthy residence, polfeffing beauties. and
convemences fufficiqjt to attrail the attention of any per
lon denrous of becoming a purchaser.
: r , Thc motiYC w hich induces the fubferiber to offer for
(> lean eftatefo singularly beautiful and is
a desire to become an inhabitant of Alexandria-, v here he
can with more ease attend to his interelts in the neiich
bourhood of that cily
, , 'he purchaser may be accommodated with a few flav«s
in families, either for plantation or donjeftic use. A part
i of the purchafc money will be required and the balance
made easy, the debt being properly secured.
, WILLIAM FiTZHUGH.
Chataam, (Virg) Rec 19, i 7i> 6 Juth—aaw-.m
20 Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber on the 13d o«9»ber.
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES; a, year,
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mi«ed green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
a imped veil; a pair of dark, spotted pantaloons, and
i whole boots much worn, ft is probable he may change
|ms name ar.«l drefa. He has been accuftqaied to driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid tor fccuring him so that the fubferiber may get him
again, and if brought homo all reafonafcle charges paid by
Robins Chamlserlaine.
F-ifton, Maryland, Nov. TO. 14 ' Tmaawtf
Peter i>orger,
No. 129 Mulberry-Street,
T_T AS imported by th« ü biig Tryal, captain Robert Knox,
an ° l " e Good Friends, captain Smith, from hambuxg.
7000 Empty French bottles,
200 do demijohns,
, 246 do. filled with beans and lentils,
ioo, Hand Engines,
xoo P s . i'Jatillas,
200 White RolJs —
ALSO—
Several boxes with decanitis and tumWers, half pint* pint
anri uuarts--o«e mvoice ol Nur«?jberg toys—Co main in*
inuh-boxes, looking-glafTes, See. *
100.000 Q.uilis of diHjerent qualities,
150 Boxes Window GJaf«, 7-99-11 n-12,
O N HAND
10 Qr, Casks Sherry V^ir.e,
4 do. Brandy,
200 Cases belt Holland Gija,
r.°°, tr fvt Wl ; ,c ' u bottles each,
One bale of Flannels afToi;ied, and
30 Ps. Cloih,
Frefti Prunes io boxes and barrels.
fthr " jr y t„ & t>
1 he Subscriber
I N J°fi MS r ! he Fublic ' th3t hr """"faSures and has on
i hand lor falc, a very geperalaffdrtment
Saddles, Bridles, licrnefs and Trunks
As usual, »!fo, KIKE BUCKETS of an excellent auali" '
F , WILLIAM JONES. '
fm&w^
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. 119—-
CKESMUT-STRfifiT.