tb e SUlUtCtl & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 148 i.j
NOTICE.
THE eo-p*nacr(hipof William John Mills,
so l J jKn Mi!|», jun. Bookiellert and Stationery un
der •* finn of W. Young, Mill® and Son, is this
dav diflolved by mutual content. All person* indebted
to the copartnerdiip are requeued to make payment
to Wjlliam Young, and those having demands arc de-
Grtd to produce their accounts for ffttlement.
William Toung,
John Mills,
John Mills, jun.
Philadelphia, lune6.h, 1797.
W. YOUNG
Contiaucs the bookfclling and (lationa-y business tt
«ht ufuil plaee, wholesale and retail, where he has
«i»w a very large assortment of
IVriling and Printing Papert and Booh,
Of which catalogues with ihe] prices affixed are de
livered giaiit-
Wanted,
A perton will qualified in the book felling and sta
tionary business. Applications will be received till
the firil July next, at No. 52, south Second-flrcct,
corner ot Chefnuufliect.
Juno 6. d7p
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwelling-house 30,000 dollars,
A cash 30,000, ire
I ditto 15,000 & cash 35,000 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,060 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & cafb 10,000 20,0ne
t ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
I cash prize ef 10,000
3 do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
30 do. 500 * - le.aoo
00 do. 100 • - Jo,o*o
300 do. jo 10,000
400 do. 35 - 10,000
X,ooo do. 39 • 30,000
15,000 do. 10 • >50,000
16,739 Prize*.
33,361 Blank*
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 4*0,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quan
tity of Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
bat ONE :
And approved notes, fecurilig payment in either
monsy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
he received for any number not less than 30 tick
its.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be ere&ed in the City of
Walbtington—'Two beautiful designs are already
fele&ed for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawings it is proposed to ere<sl
two centre and 'our corner buildings, as soon aspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to c-mvey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurtrs, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray theneceffary expenfesof print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National Oniverfity, to
be ere&ed within the city of Walhington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, 3re held by the President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lattery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tieketsmay be had at the Bank ot Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter
Oilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond :
and of Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
Now Landing,
At Pratt'J wharf,
FROM on board the (hip Thomas Chslkley,
Capt.Rafer, from Botrdeaux,
CLARET in calks
Ditto in cases
White Wine Vinegar 1
Red Skins in boxes
For Sale by
Rundle & Leech.
May 15 f
A few hhds. N. JE. Rum, ;
Of a SUPERIOR QUALITY, |
HYSON } i
YOUNG HYSON >T E AS, ill quarter chests, (
And IMPERIAL } ■
»OR SALE BY j
A. Marple & Israel W. Morris, <
No. 60 Dockrftreet.
May 33 raw&f9t 1
—— ■ ,
Notice. 1
ALL persons indebted to the Estate of Sarah ]
Marshall, deceased, arerequefled to make 1
immediate payment, and those that have demands |
against said estate, are desired to bring in their ac-1 :
counts properly attested forfettlement, to either of 1
the fubfcribcrs. Christopher Marshall, Jr.
Caspar W. Haines,
Abraham M. Garrigors,
Administrators to the Estate of Sarah Marfliall,
deceased. June 3 »aw3W
Pennfy lvaniaPopulation Company.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Shire Hold
ers, that a further affefTment of nine dol
lars is levied on each share, payable at follows,
viz,
Six Dollars immediately, and i
Three Dollars on the ill of July next. 1
Which they are requeflcd to pay to the Treafu- J
rer of the Company, at the Company's Office, '
No. 53, North Fourth-flreet, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed, that on their negle&iag to pa the
lame as above direded, the several forfeitures .
will be exalted.
. By ocder of the Board,
SOL. MAKACHE, Tre:furer. ]
May 37. d3ot
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal
Company,
May if, 1797.
THE STOCKHOLDERS
WHO are in arrtarefor Miy sum» due on their
refpe<3i»* (hares, are requeftcd to pay the
fame.
WILLIAM COVETT, Trcafurer.
10 RI4W
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY EVENING, JUNE 7, 1797.
For Freight or Charter,
! Brig Fame,
t FRANCIS KNOX, Matter:
. A (trong, excellent ve.TI, hat been jnft (heathed and
ready to receive a cirgo. She will carry 3,000 bar
rels, has good accommodations so pallengers.
Apply to
Capt. Knox, or to
Kearny Wharton.
June 6. 6p
For Sale or Charter,
' • ~ • THE SHIP
WARREN,
- Benjamin Church, Master.
OF about tBo tons burthen. En
quire of
Jetfe Is? Robert Wain-
May 16 j
For Hamburgh,
th« ship
WmMZ.A E R I A L,
JohnTarris, mailer.
A GREAT part of her cargo is engaged, and
the will fail in ten days. For freight orpaf
fage apply to capt. Tarris, at Willing* A Francis'
wharf, or to GURNET & SMITH.
May 35 §
For London,
.' JE" -Pji tu u gulp
SKll WILLIAM PENN,
James "Jon ah, Majler.
WILL fail with all convenient fpce<L For
fr6ight or paiTage apply to
Jefje & Robert Wain.
May 19 §
For Freight or Charter,
To any part of Europe,
The Sivedifh Ship
Alexander Magnus,
Capt. Cari. Cw. Ehsman,
ABOUT 350 tons burthen, in this port ; and
also the Danish Ship FREDERICK JULIUS
KAUS, of 450 tons, now lying in Hampton Roads.
Apply to JOHN VAUGHAN.
May 36. tuthf6t
For Sale,
The cargo of the brig Enterprise, Captain
Langdon from Bourdeaux, now landtag at
Morton's wharf,
consitinG ®F
534 hhds. of Claret ") S ..
317 cases of ditto -o "j5
100 cifes of Sweet Oil
no pipes London proof \ „„. Kr , v S «
10 pipes of Holland pnoof j W -c
Apply to
Wharton Iff Lewis,
No. 1(5, South Front St.
Said Brig,
WILL take a FREIGHT for
the Weft-Indies or Europe, fails
0 'bout fifteen hun
"SSßMSß&«3dred barrels, if# in complete or
der, and will be ready to receive a cargo in a
few days
Apply as abovo.
May 34 ij
Millinery Room,
No. 136 Markct-fircct.
MISS CHRTSTAL
TAKES an early opportunity of acquainting
her Friends that (he has received by flie !
William Penn, a variety of NEW MfL- '
LINERY, &ci which she hopes to be able to
ftiew them in a few days.
May 18 foot
The Commissioners
FOR carrying int» effefl the TWENTY-FIRST -
Article of the Treaty of Fiiendfhip, Limits,
and Navigation, between His Catholic Majefly
and the United States of America, hereby give in
formation to all Persons ther cin concerned, —That, S
in order to terminate all differences, on account of t
the lafles sustained by the Citizens of the United r
States, in consequence of their Vessels and Car
goes having b-cn taken by the Subje<£ls of His Cath
olic Majesty, during the late War between Spain
and France, that they are ready to receive (at their
Office, between the hours of ten and one o'clock,
daily) all complaints and applications, authorized
by the said Article, during Eiguteen Months.
Irom the day of the date hereof, and that they have
power to examine all such persons as Km; before
them, on oath or affirmation, touching the com
plaints in question, and also to receive in evidence,
all written testimony, authenticated in such man- r
ner as they (hall think proper to require or admit. v
By Order of the Commifjinners, -
PETER LOHRA, J
Secretary. t
C mm'tjftonrrs Office, Ao. 109, Mulberry
reet, Philadelphia, May I'jth, 1797.
30—$4W
To be Sold,
A large and eonvenient
Three Story Brick House;
SrrU \TE at the north-east corner of Arch and
Fourth-ftrcets. It contains eighteen room*—
and is In every refpefl well finilhcd. For particu
lars enquire of
M. Keppele,
No. 138, Chefnut-ftreet.
May 31. §
For Sale,
By Samuel Breck, jun, at his Compting-houfe,N»,
89, South Third-.tr. et,
A quantity of the befl
Boston meis Beef in whole asd half barrels.
fit Far £hipt use
Do. Pork do.
A quantity o( Sherry Wine
A lew Pipes Oil Proot Brandy, just landed
from Eordc.ux
Chocolate in Uoxcs
Rice, Cotton. Castile Seas, ar.d
Four or five falc. large Orauge Peels, Ac.
May tj. so6t
By John Fenno, N a iip Chef nut Street.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much plcaf
irre and refpeft, return* her sincere ac
knowledgrtncnt tor the liberal encouragement
/he has received during four years refidcnce in
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends anil the
public, so far from intending to decline her
fchooli (he has made a fupjiior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
- Groombridge and matters excelling in their
refpeiftive profrffions.
Corner of Sprucb and Eleventh Streets.
J ,me ith, 1797. Jimftf
The situation is perfeflly healthy ; and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
. of ground adjoining the house.
Houlhold Furniture.
NOW felling by private lals, No. I 7 Dock
ftreet —confiftiug o' chairs, tables, looking
- | glasses, bureaus, hand and fire irons, bedftoads,
1 feather-beds, carpets, bedding, window curtains,
bed and table linen, kitchen furniture, &c. The
whole in good order, and has only been a few
manths in use.
The sale to continue daily 'till the whole is fold.
| J»ne 2 §
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRST & ad proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hock, in cases of 40 dozen each
GUfs Tumblers, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different tizes
Hazlenuts, in fecks
Whiting
Copperas ( . ~ -
White Lead f ,n l,hd '
& Hpanilh Brown J
For Sale bv
PETER BLIGHT.
hnuarv 4
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
At the Merchants' Coffee house, in Philadelphia,
on the 15th day of June, at 8 o'clock in the
evening, if ndt before disposed of at private
falc,
40,931 1-2 acres of land, on the
waters of Wheeling and Fishing creeks, in Walh
ington county, Pennsylvania. The foil is remark
ably fearile ; andbefides a large body of meadow,
there are considerable improvements on the pre
mifes. These lands were patented in 1787. On
payment of part of the purchase money, a reason.
abi« credit will be given for the residue. Enquir
of the printer. e
"ay 15. § t S
Poft-Office, 23d May, 1797.
THE Mail for Baltimore will be closed at this of
fice every morning (Sundays exccptecf) at half pjft 7
o'clock.
The Mail for Boflon will be doled every day
(Sundaysexcepted) at is o'clock noon ; and
The Mail for Frederica, Milford,Clowes, Dagfbo
rough, Delaware, Horntowu, Accomack Coutt-Houfe
and Northampton Court-Home, Virginia, will be
closed every Monday morning at half pad 7 o'clock.
May *3. . . » 18t
Pennsylvania Population Com
pany.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Sharehold
ers, that a further assessment of fifteen .
dollars is levied on each (hare, payable in the 1
following inftalmrnts—viz.
One quarter immediately.
One quarter on the ift of June.
One quarter ou the ift September.
One quarter on the ift Dec. next.
Which they are requested to pay to the Tiea
furer ps the Company at the Company's Office,
No. S3 north Fourth street, agreeably to the
times above mentioned ; and they are further
informed that on their negletfting to pay the
fame as above direfled, the several forfeitures,
direfted by the Constitution, willl be exafled.
By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE,
Treasurer.
May 15 sim
St. Andrew's Society.
AT a quarterly meeting of the St. Andrew's t
Society, held at the Golden Swan, last evening,
the following gentlemen were unanirnoufly elided
members thereof:
Lord Henry Stewart, V '
The Honorable Thomas JU'Dona/Jy 5
Mr. William Alexander,
Capt. Duncan Rose, h
Mr. James Thorbur, 1
Mr. James Stuart, jun.
Mr. William Gardner,
Mr. Samuel Campbell, of N. T. t :
The treasurer, Mr. Shields, presented to the j
meeting the flatement of the funds of the society ;
whereupon, it was
Resolved, that he be requested to continue his ,
strenuous exertions to tolled in the arrears due to '
the poor fund, and to make report ot his success
thereiu at the next quarterly meeting.
Richard Lake, Secretary, j
June I. 3P b
Rofs & Simfon,
Have for Sale, v
A QUANTITY OF PRIME c]
St. Domingo Cotton,
Superior Old Liftion Wine in Pipes
Excellent India Market ,
Teneriffe Wine, t )
In Madeira Calks ai
A few Quarter Chests best bi
Fre(h Hyson and )
Hyson Skin J m
Muscovado Sugars m Hogsheads, and tl
'Coffee in Tierce* bl
March 7. ||tf ct
Just Received, lr
From Batavia (via Providence)
170 Sacksof Java Coffee of £tft quality
aoo half facki do. do. P
A few Boxes of Spices, confiding of
Nutmegs, Cloves and Mace
For sale by
HILLINGS fcf FR ANCIS, fa
< Pennrftrcet. fu
May 30 rftf
Grattan and Gomp.
i. D Efpeiftfully inform their friends, that they have
f. iv imported from London per the (hip Star, a
c large affortme»t of
, t PERFUMER T,
; n Which is now opened for falc at their House, N«.
le 19J Market-street.
- r Also, a new affoitiuent of ready-made gentle
men's linrn, (hirts (rem a dollart, each to 8 dollars
II &c. &C.&S.
Ladies and gentlemen r.re accommodated with
S board and lodging at ten Dollars each.
• Tnofe Gentlemen who have their own private
lodgings, may be accommodated with dinner only,
by the week or month
J une 5 . fit
le Erfkine's View of the War.
it
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
c _ No 40 Sou: h Second street,
r . [Price 31 Cents J
s, d View of the Causes and Confequen
s; ces of the present War with France.
'I By the Honorable Thomas Erskini.
M *y »5 $
1 The fubferibers, have for sale, the
following Goods, viz :
OLD Madeira Wine, in pipes.
Port do. in pipes, hog(head s & qr. calks.
Malaga do. in hog(heads andqr. ca(ks.
Sherry do. in quarter calks.
Claret do. of excellent quality, in bottles.
Russia Duck.
Do. Diiper and Huckaback.
Coarse Toweling.
Ifing Glass, firft fort.
Russia white Soap, cut in fmallbars.
Mould Candles, in boxes of 6olb weight.
London Porter, in bottles.
100 barrels of good beef.
A wrought-iron Book Cafe.
PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co.
Philadelphia, ad June, 1797. d.
Just Arrived,
In the schooner Dove, Captain Paul, from St
' Thomas, and (or sale by the fubferiber.
s Muscovado Sugar in hhds- tierces and barrels.
St. Croix Rum in hhds.
And Laguira hides.
ALSO ON HAND,
Imperial, Hyson, and Sherry and Malaga
Hyson Skin Teas* Wmcs.
► Yellow Nankeens. Holland Gin in pipes
Canton Cl«th. Do. Cheese.
Luteftringj. Do. Glass ware.
Silk Hankerchiefs. China Ware.
Sewing Silk. Window Blinds.
Cotton in bales. Rheubarb.
Peruvian Bark. Quicksilver, &c.
JOSEPH SIMS.
Ma y sad. di 4 t.
For Sale,
ON board the (hip Mour, John Frost, matter .
from Liverpool, laying at Walnut-street wharf
6000 bushels of fine ftoved Salt,
And QUtEN'S WARE, well assorted,
By PHILIP NICKLIN & Co.
WHO HAVF. IN STORE, ALSO FOR SALE,
100 Boxes WhiteHavanna. Sugars
Imperial and) ™ 1
Hyson i Ttis
17 tubs Quicksilver
a chests Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chests Manchester Goods well assorted
in corduroys, thicksets, ginghams, mufliiiets, !
dimities, &c. 2 Trunks black sewing silk, ,
180 Crates queens ware, well assorted,
10 Tons (heet lead, .
Nails assorted, flat and (harp points, <
London particular and > Madeira Wine in c
India market j pipes and hhds.
30 pipes, 10 hhds. Teneriffe Wine, c
10 pipes chow* Port ditto, r
31 calks yellow paint, i
7 boxes 1 a bundles writing dates,
I box ink-Hands & note prtffes, (1
• Sailcarivas assorted No. 1 a 8. ''
%4_ dtf
THE FOLLOWING VALUABLE
Tra&s of Land,
IN the county of Glynn and state of Georpia,
will be fold by public sale, at eight o'clock
on the evening of Tuesday the a7th day ot June
next, at the Merchants Coffee-Houfe in this ci
ty, unlefsprcvioufly disposed of by private sale.
ift. 7COO acres on St. Simons Sound at the
confluence of Frederica and Turtle rivers, ad- (h
joining the commons of the town of Brunfwick,
originally granted to John Howell, and withia
6 iriles of the Atlantic ocean.
ad. 25,000 acres on the head waters of a
branch of the great Sattilla, originally granted
to Ferdinand O'Neal. W
3d. jo,ooo acres on the waters of the little
Satilla river, and of Buffaloe and Alexanders
Creeks ; the great Satilla road passes through
these lands, which were originally granted to ' n
Ferdinand O'Neal.
4th. 50,000 acres on the great Satilla river, ~~
which are also interfered by a branch of the
little Satilla, and were originally granted te
Thomas Spalding.
It appears by authentic certificates from Q
Thomas Davis, surveyor, and from Major
Hopkins now residing in Philadelphia, that the
body of these lands are not thirty miles from ' el
the ocean, and principally within tide water ; .
that the Alatamaha is navigable for boats and '. n
rafts two huudred miles above, and fer large trc
veffcls within ten miles of them ; that they are " r
chiefly firft rate pine lands, producing timber r
equal in quality to any in the state of Georgia, 110I 10
poffefling the fame advantages of navigation.
The abovementioned certificates, together with rc "
the patents, drafts, andother papers refpeiliug ot!
the title, which is complete and unincumbered, tw
are in the poffefliort of Uie fubferibers and may c
be seen by applying to Benjamin R. Morgan, at
No. j, South 4th Street. The ternss of pay- of
ment will be one third cifli, the renisining two an '
thirds in.gcod negotiable endors'd notes, paya
ble in three and fix months after the sale; a lot
conveyance to be made to each -purchaser on the
payment of that moiety of the notes teceived •£'
from him which becomes firft due. CUI
THOMAS" FITZSIMONS,
JEREMIAH PARKER,
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN. ~~
Philadelphia, May jr. eodtf
Dutch Gunpowder.
A quantity of the best Dutch Gunpowder for be
sale by Saoiu. I BreeV, iim. tit. 89, (o*th Third- v.i
f.rcet. th(
*7- -o6t
The Subscriber,
sve Determined to retire from bufinefj, invites all
» a ' lave an y r,c 'Oi bill, bond or acceptance
of hi., no* due, to call for payment ; and those
who wish to anticipate may receive the money
at a reasonable difcouiit.
JAMES SWAN.
le- May ii. <Jjw>
irs > Dorcheftir. near Bofto/i, ifyh May 1797.
lth Richard Bayley Co.
il e ate J°hn Whitesides & Co.
No. 136 Market-fire*,
HAVE reefcived"per the (hips William Peon and
Star from London, a large and fafhionable uf
fortment of the following articles : viz.
Chintzes, and printed Cottons, of the new«ft
pattcrni
Furniture Dimities and Chintzes
Ginghams, plain and figured,
Mullins, printed and embroider*)?
l)o. tambour'd, plain, check and ftrip'd
tamboured, of a very superior quality
C. Fine Book, Jaconet and Decca Handkerchief.
Dimities and mullinets
Damaik table-linen, in setts and in the piece
Diaper ditto in Cloths afid in ditto
l£ Holland and RufEa Sheetings
Loop'd Hollands and Irifii l inens
Long Lawns and Cambrics
Sattins and Silks, pljiin and figured
Ribbons and Gloves
Crapes and Gauzes
Straw, Chip, and Paper Hats and Bonnets, new
fliapes
Fancy trimmings, &e.
With a variety of articles in the Linen-Drapery
and Habcrdafhsry line.
Ma y '» § s ot
NOW LAND IN G ~
From on board of the ftiip GEORGE BAR
CLAY, Capt. Charles M'Alester, from
Calcutta, the following GOODS, viz.
ColTas Punjum Cloths
Hummums Gurrahs
1 Guzeenahs India Calicoes
Emertics Cotton Checks
Mamoodies Mulmuls
Sahans Ked and Blue Eernagou
hkfs
7 lckerici p a tna do.
J®llas Pantipope do.
Carridarrics Plain, striped and flower
ed fine muslins
a Maragunges Ginghams
Baftas, various forts Taffeties
1. Sattln Romals Bandanno red hks.
ALSO,
300 Calks Sugar
40 Boxes do.
16s Bags do.
70,000 lb. weight heavy black Pepper
40,000 lb. weight Ginger
ao Tons Hemp in Bales
9 Pipes Eafl-India Spirits
- For sale by PHILIPS, CRAMOND Gf Co,
May 4. dtf
r '
f *
, Venereal Complaints,
T)UNCTI TALLY attended to in every stage of
V»t disease, without the use of mercury or
reftramt of diet, in any cafe recent and simple, on
application at No." 113, Chefnut-fcreet, opposite
the United States bank, or at No, 170, South Wa
ter-street, between Spruce and Pine-flaeets, where
he has opened an office for the better, accommoda
tion of his patients.
But in Lues Venerea confirmed, Doflor Morgan
pledges himfelf, that nofyftem of cure (however
» ipecious) can be efieflual without mercury, and
that all the known rules of pra&ice for theie two
centuriespaft, and united experience afHrms that
arry-fiibfti'u'.for it Is but nugatory, and any mode
of practise to the contrary mult be futile and de
ception.
Ncvettbelefs, he undertakes, however compli
cated the cafe, to efTeil a cure without inconve
nience or injury ts the patient's conftrution, and
in time net generally experienced cr ejpciSed.
N B. Regular attendance at the office in Water
lircet, from the hour of nine o'clock in the morn
ing until one, and from three o'clock in the even
ing until seven; but any o her time at his dwelling
house, in Chcfnut ftrect.
Ma y ">■ dtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jan. & Co.
No. 8 Chefnut-Street,
Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly afTort.-d, very low on
short credit.
March 6. r
iLzekiel Hall
„ " A C S " mov 1 ?d Compting Room u> Jones'.
Wharf, where he has for ialc
( 24 hogsheads Cod Fish.
A Jlore to let,
In Water-ilrcet, between Market-and Arch-streets
May 19. 6?
TO BE SOLD,
A valuable three (lory Brick House j
OITUATE in Lodge alley, next to the batik n*
U Pennsylvania, (be lot on which itjiands, to!
gethef with the vacant lot adjoining, which ex
tends to Goforth-ftreer. The house is about 50
feet in front on Lodgealley, and about 41 fen
in depth, the adjoining lot is aljout 96 feet
front on Lodge alley, and 44 fret on Goforth
ftreet, being a street which leads from Chcfnut
ftreet and Carter's alley into Deck-ftrect at the
horse marker. The house consists of ten lodg
ing rooms, with fix fire places, two dining
rooms, one of them forty feet in length, the
other about thirty-four fe»t, each containing
two fire piacs, two parlours and a Jatge kit
chen, with extensive cellars under, and garret,
over the whole, a 'privilege of a vacant lot
of ground to the eiltward between this house
and the bank, a pump of excellent water in the
yard, a handsome piazza fronting tfie vacant
lot, and a fr.co* liable and dwelling house en
Goforth-ftreet. The premises now rent for
>C*3'B per annum. To be fold clear of all in
cumbrances.
. For terras apply to Jthn Clement Stacker.
April to jawtf
A Corapting House to Jet.
THE Ccmpting House formerly occupied by
lar.JohoE. Caldwell, 011 Rofs' wharf, wilt
be vacant 011 ift June—and for hie to any perfca
who msyipply for faaif. lor t.rms enquire of
the primer hsre»f.
Mtyji. raCp
{Volume XI%f)t ttte.
PHILADELPHIA,
ITEDKESDAX EVENING, JUNE 7.
.'..1. ■ 1 i. ».i 1 .. 1
John Stickney Merchant of Worcester, (M
chufete) has invented an Arch Bridge, for which
he has received a Patent from the Government of
the United State's.
,'1 be improvements made in tl-.is conftrttftion
. »t« in the firft inftancr, a fivfng of one third the
rv.aatut of Timber commorly used in ftrticlures
tit this kind, but a f na-11 quantity of Iron will be
VAUifetf. The timber bring very compad will
not only add to the beiiU - y, lint greatly to the
Prenjtb of the arch. The distance to Which it
may be carried is indeterminate, as it may with
ease and fifcty be extended from one hundred to
right hundred feet. Tho lcngttvof the largeit
(tides required would be only shirty two feet lor
an Arch of any length, 1 and in th« manner they
■ iro united, no part cm ever get afurtder .until
taken apart by the workmen,th«y may with eafeac
any tim« take rut any one or more (ticks, and 1
replace thcin wi houtany detriment to the ftanj
ingpart; therefore a bridge of thi< kind might at
Vciy small eipcnce be kept in repair for ag^s.
It is well known that Arch Bridges are extreme
ly besefioial. At the common accidents which
throw down pile bridge', such as torrents of
flood*, loads of lee, or floating timbers, which
beat with irrefiftable viclen e against the piers,
will have no power over a fabric of this kind.
No bridge u more beautiful than one of a (ingle
arch, nor any more conveuieut and firm than these
when properly conftruited, nor more agreeable to
yafs over when the afrettt is very gradual, and no
ma(Ty timbers over head to impede the profpe«2.
Sefides the nametous advantages of this new
conftrnction, from the ease and fafety in which they
can be repaired there refulis a promise of their be
■ Ing of great utility to the Country.
The following is the article of our treaty with
Sweden, produced and read by Mr. W. Smith
on Monday.
"If in any future war at ft-a, the contracting
power« resolve to remain neuter, and, as such, to
observe the (tri<9eft neutrality, then it is agreed,
that if the njerchant (hips of either party (hould
happen to be in a part of the fca, where the (hips
of war of the fame nation are not ltationed, or if
they are met on the high sea, without being able
to have reeourfeto their own convoys, in that ease
the commrnder of the (hips of war of the other
party, if required, (hall in good faith andfinceti
ty give them all necessary afliftance, and, in such
ease, the (hips of war and frigates of either of the
powers, (ball protedt and support the merchant
(hips of the other, provided nevertheltfs that the
(hips claiming afliftance are not engaged in any
illicit ccftimerce contrary to the principles ef neu
trality."
Mr. W Smith, in the debate on Monday, de
nied the assertion of Mr. Giles, that Franc# had
declared certain British pouts in the Weft-Indie»
to be inaftate of rexbllion ; it was Victor
MugOes whb had issued the declaration, Mr.
Smith did not fitppofe the government of France
could hazard fnch a ridiculous dodrine.
The .following is a corred Copy of the Re
- solutions of Mr. W. Smith, depending
in the House of Representatives :
1.. Refilved, —That further proviljon
oijght to be made by law,' for'fortifying the
ports and harbours of the United States.
2. Resolved —That further provision be
made by law, fpr completing and manning
the /rigateti United States, Conjlitution and
Cancellation.
3. Refolded —That provision be made by
law, for procuring by purchase, a further
naval force, to conftft of frigates, of
guns, and Hoops of war, of
guns.
4. Resolved—Thai provision be made by
law, sos empowering the President to em
ploy the naval force of the United States,
a3 convoys, to protest the trade thereof.
J. Resolved —That provision be made by
law, for regulating the arming of the mer
chants veflels, of the United States.
6. Resolved —That the existing Military
establishment ought to be augmented by an
addition of one regiment or corps of attil
lerifts and engineers, and companies
of dragoons.
7. Resolved —-That provision be made by
law, for empowering the President to raise
a provjjional army, to corifift of regi
ments of infantry, one regiment of artillery,
and one regiment of dragoons, by commis
sioning the officers, and by volunteers or en
liiltnents, whenever the circumstances of the
country (hall, ill his opinion, render the laid
army necessary for the protection and de
fence of the United States : Provided, that
neither the officers or soldiers (hall receive
any pay or emoluments until called into ac
tual service.
8. Resolved —That provision be made by
law, to authorize the President to borrow,
on the credit of the United States, a sum
not exceeding dollars, to defray the
expence which may arise in proyiding for
the defence and security of the United
States.
9. Resolved —That provision be made by
law, to raise a revenue adequate to the reim
bursement, within years, of such sum
as may be borrowed, as aforefaid.
10.-Resolved —That provision be made
by law, to prohibit, for a limited time, the
exportation of arms, ammunition, and mili
tary and naval stores.
Those Printers who have published the
Resolves in an incorreft (hape, are reqUclted
to publish the above.
FROM THE AURORA.
Philadelphia, May 31, 1797.
felirvj Gtizcns,
THE charge of Judge Iredell to the jury
it Richmond, and tbe consequent prefrntuient
of tayfelf and others—l have lately read with
every ftntiment of indignation which could be
inspired in the bosom us a free man: If my
countrymen do i:ot feci ihc fame refentmmt it
must be because they live forgotten those fenti
/-ments so favourable to ttt •"rcedom of opinion
which a few years ago we fought and bled fur.
The judiciary tnftitutions of the United Sfatr»
are valuable only ai they tend to preserve the
piblie pcate and iadividualrigbta, by a regular
andjult execution of the laws :—lf no law has
been violated, there can be no business for th(
federal judiciary, and it is jis yet a feature o:
liberty «tenjoy, that no law has anad* it cut
pablc to entertain oi'to express our opinions ei
ther in mattcr»|c.f rePjicn pr pclitics ; It l.as,
Lowcver, keen a regular practice cf the t'cJtial
juries, lo politic*! dlfcotirfesto th; gran.!
juror* throujjuout tht United Stares : They
hove become a band of political preachers, iti
(tcad ofa fags body to.ailminiller the law
The/ do not complain at violations of, any law
and point out the true courts: of redref», hut
tbry complain of opinions whkti they seem to
think tend to defeat their system of polities ;
the next thin# T fappofe will be, their system
of religion. They Item to be making use of
their power and influence both personally 3nd
officially to controf the freedom of individual
opinion, and these tilings excite a fu4fi«i<»
that if they are continued, the time -wiil tome,
when men of different political and religious
Jentiroents from the judges, will n;t find that
e&fy access to jwftice which .those of diflerent
opinions may expeift. the impropriety
of these kindsof charges to jurors as they are a
depai jure from the immediate prov ; nce of the
judges— they (hew a political influence ovet the
judges by the executive, which is calculated to
do irretrievable harm. Judge Iredell's charge
at Richmond not only countenances these re
marks, but will give rife to the most serious
train of reflexions, that can engage tht mind
ef any man devoted to the friedfcm of opinion
—The jury who adted under this charge, ap
pear by their presentment to have considered it ,
as an authority lor censuring the kidepeiidenct
of private opinion. They have pretexted as a
real evil the circular letters of several members
of Congress, without name, and particularly
mine by name, because they differoinatc un
funded calumnies against the government,
tending to fiparate the people from it, and in
creafc or produce a foreign influence. If theft
letters contained calumnies that were illegal—
if they produced, or increased a foreign influ
ence in our country contrary to law, the au
thors were fit fubje&s for a presentment and
for punilhment. The omission to present the
authors as culprits, and confining prefer.tmrnt
to the opinions contained in the letters, afford
the molt unanswerable proof that these letters
were not the evidences of any illegal ?.<sl ; if
they were, neither the court or jury seem to
have undcrftood the proper manner of doing
theirduty ; if they were not they have judici
ally animadverted upon the freedom of opinion,
with ; view either to suppress it, or to coun
terafl its beneficial cffe&s. At a distance from
my cpnftituents, charged with their bell inter
ests, and bound to give them such information
relative to their public concerns, as I peffeffed,
I never before knew it was criminal to execute
this duty. If I have written fall'ely u i.h a
.view to deceive my countrymen, why did not
this enlightened jury Hate the fails which I have
milVeprelented ? I could then have acquitted
myfelt by the proofs I possess ; but when they
attack my political opinions, which are but the
result of faifts, they do but oppose opinion to
opinion. If they can draw better conclusions
from all nsceffary evidence relative to the points
upon which I have spoken than myfelf, they
' should have presented to you that course of rea
soning by which they were fatisfied, and thus
by addressing themlelves to your judgments
have fatisfied you in opposition to the opinions
which I have given j but this would not have
anfwereJ' their purpose. They were armed
with an awful power, arid a naked presentment
mer.t succeeding a political charge from the
bench was better calculated to overawe than a
manly course of argument. 1 need not fay -to
my fellow-citizens, that I love my country and
will support itsgovernment, upon the principles
of a freeman : —I do not believe any branch of
it. administrators is infallible, and whenever
they appear to me to incroach on the principles
which are necessary to support our freedom and
independence, I will continue to ait the part of
a watchful centinel at the poll where you have
placed me : a charge that I was attempting by
my letters to produce, or increase a foreign in
fluence definitive of my country's inurcfl,
seems to be but the result of an aft too often
and too fuccelsfully used by those who are medi
tating the objeifl they prafcribe, while by a
larms they are diminishing the afleftion of the
public towards a mrtfok-they dread, they are
but secretly making way for a new attachment
towards a nation they love ; and in proportion
as they can succeed in the firft view, they are
sure in the course of humap events of obtaining
their wilhes in the latter view. Look at the
names of the grand jury who have made this
unexampled presentment although you will find
some native Americans who have been attached
t© the independence of their country, you will
readily perceive what they mean by foreign
influense I, like you, my fellow citizens, c.»n
have no views of this fort. I have felt, and I
Hill do feel, an attachment for the- French na
tion : They aflifted my country to eftabliih its
independence, and they aided us in securing
peace .• They have founded a republic on the
overthrow of monarchy and tyranny ; I there
fore feel interested in their favour : I look with
a friendly eye on their faults, but I admire iheir
heroism and military prowess. Still if that na
tion or any other on earth, /hall invade the in
dependence and freedom of my country, I lhall
view the attempt as an independent American
It is Britilh influence that we have molt to
dread. In proportion as our eommerce and in
tercourse with England has become more neces
sary to them, by the events in turope, a stron
ger desire has been manifested to stop ourin
tercourfe with France and engage it in favor of
Great Britain. Whenever our commerce has
turned in favor cf Fraoce, England has oppres
sed it; whenever it has turned in favor of Eng
land, France has oppressed it. Our commerce
has become a fubjeth of contest between these
two nations .• It is injured and oppreft by both.
England was appeased for a momsnt by Mr.
Jay's treaty •• As a neutral nation we are bound
to place France on the fame footing .• But the
occasion has offered a favourable oppoitunity to
England, to irritate us with France, and France
with us, with a view to eftabliih an incurable
quarrel, the c'onfequencr of which mult be a
compete monopoly of us and our interests by
Great Britain.—lr. this view it it that alarms are
spread about French influence ; for if a quar
rel can be insured between France and Ameri
ca, no moral truth can be more true, than this
political one, that the United States will be
thrown into an alliance offenfive and defenlire
with Great Britain. My wilhes and my de
terminations have always been to maintain the
neutrality of the United States, and regardless
of the interest of other nations to keep free from
conned! ing our national fortunes with those of
any European power.—For tlitfe things and
for these endeavours my opinions have been
held tip by a grand jury at Richmond as derog
atory to the lappinefsand peace of my country :
You my fellow citizens will view this attempt
to influence opinion with the indignation it de
fcrvei, and I promie yon molt Cncerely it fliall
not intimidate me from pursuing the fame
means of informing you uchith has i icurredtke
censure of this politicalcourt and jury.
, I am with every feminism of refpeft, '
my Fellow Citizens,
your faithful servant,
SAM. J. CABELL.
The prhiteis tvho are friends to freedom of.
op.nion, and efpecialljfuch as may hive publji
ei the charge ami presentment alluded to are rf
que[tci togiveth-. ainfUf/ace In their papers.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE or REPRESENTATIVES,
Delate on Mr. Kittera'-t Motion.
FRIDAY, JUNE 2.
A communication was received from the
Treasurer of the United States, with his ac
counts up to the jift. of March lad, which
was ordered tp be printed.
The hotife again entered upon the con
lideration of the answer to the President's
speech ; when the Speaker having Rated the
question under discussion at the time the
house last adjourned, viz. the previous ques
tion upon the motion of Mr. Kittera, for
inserting a clause in the address in reference
to the spoliations committed upon our fellow
citizens. #
Mr. J. Williams expressed his concern
that this motion had been brought forward
at all. In order to extricate the house from
the difficulty, he had proposed t» insert the
word " justice," which he believed would
' '.ave had the desired effeft. He did not
think it was-the business of that house to
take into confidergtion the lofTes sustained by
our merchants from the spoliations of the
French ; if they .chose to run rifles, they
mull take the consequences. But the ques
tion having been brought before the house,
if it were negatived our merchants would
have a claim upon government for their loss
es. He wilhed,-therefore, to have kept the
subject out of fight, since our citizens would
not like to be taxed to pay for these spolia
tions.' It was the opinion of one part of
the house, that tbe propcfition for placing
France on an equal footing with other na
tions would have the effeft to preserve us in
peace ; he wilhed, therefore, that it (hould
go out unclogged. He hoped the mover
would withdraw his motion ; he thought it
would be a conciliatory step, and his propo
sition, he was of opinion, would answer ev
ery purpose.
Mr. Sew all would not have troubled the
house on this question, but that part of his
constituents being interested in the question,
he felt himfelf called upon to make a few
remarks upon it. If this motion had not
been brought forward, he himfelf (hould
have thought it his duty to have introduced
something of the fort, since the former a
inendment was carried. He did not think
with the gentleman last up, that the bare
admitting of the question would pledge them
to pay for the spoliations. He was of opin-
I ion that merchants carrying on trade, under
the fanftion of the government, were enti
tled to proteftion and to be shielded from
insult every where ; but he did not under
stand that this proteftion went to the mak
ing good of losses, but only to protest them
with the public force in their defence. The
injuries committed against them might, in
•deed, be so great as to be a just cause of
war, or of a partial war of retaliation, or for
a call upon the nation committing the injury
for redress. It had been denied, when the
former question was under consideration,
that they were dictating any terms to the
executive ; it was then said that they were
only about to offer him their opinion ; but
now, when only a single article was to be
added in behalf of our fellow-citizens, it is
said to be an ultimatum. This was chang
ing of ground; and brought the amendment,
which he did not think very hurtful before,
to give them the power of making peace or
war in the country ; we might force the ex
ecutive and Senate into a war against their
inclination. The constitution had provided
otherwise ; the executive was to take mea
sures for preserving peace. This was fuf
ficient to (how the absurdity of their under
taking the bufinefs.—lf, said Mr. S. .gen
tlemen refufe to consider the question, .it
will be adding insult to injury upon our fel
low citizens. A treaty without this stipu
lation would be absurd. Were the Prcfi
dent to go on with the idea that that the on
ly suggestion in this answer was the ground
on which he was to go ? If so, and he were
to do any thing more, and war were to be
the consequence, he would have to bear the
opprobrium. Gentlemen said they had no
objection to thus amendment, provided it was
not an ultimatum ; h? had no idea that it
could be so considered. It was the more
hazardous, since (as he before observed) he
believed that no steps that they could take
would secure peace. With refpeft to the
consistency ps members who voted against the
former amendment, from constitutional scru
ples, voting in favorof this, he always held
it good, that when a measure was carried
contrary to their wishes, they ought to en
deavor, in justice to themselves and their
constituents, to prevent the thing from do
ing injury as much as possible ; and, upon
this ground, he (hould vote for the main
question, and against the previous one.
Mr. Williams (after leave was obtained
to speak a second time to a previous ques
tion, which was obtained by every member
whofpoke twice on this question) observed
that there seemed to be a difficulty in so a -
mending the address, as to attend to the
claims of their fellow citizens, without ap
pearing to impair their desire for peace. In
order to promote conciliation in the house,
he (hould move tc recommit the address and
amendments to the feleft committee who
prepared it, apd if he were fuccefsful, he
(hould move to add some new members to it..
The motion was put and negatived, there
being 0n1)*»24 votes in favor of it.
Mr. S. Smith.said that, in the language
of Mr. Barras, they presented a novel spec
tacle to the world. They had been called
together by the President to do.some aft,
but they were wafting that time which (hould
be employed in ejfeftual measures—how ?-
To get clear of what he could not tell how
to get dear of, without a recommitment.
The objeft of calling congress together
was to take into consideration the spoliations
committed upon our commerce, and the in
dignities (hewn to our. miaifter. They had
proofs of the latter faft, but none of the
former. He had mentioned this the other
day, when the secretary of state was pref
ent, expe&ir.g that he would have remedied
the deficiency. He would again fay, that
when Brililh spoliations was the fubjeft of
complaint, they haddosuments before them.
At present they had none, for the repre
sentations made by Mr. Skipwith long ago,
and which were in a train of set dement,
could not now be the objeft, but' (omething
recent. He wiftred to know whether theif
were irregular depredations, or regular'-cap
tures. They had-been teld of certain claims
of our merchants. He asked w'rat they
were. It was true that a number of mer
chants.(and he amongst them) hadrcontraft
ed with M. Fauchet and others to deliver
flour in France, and some of them had got
paid and others'not; Many of their vessels
hadbeen, it was.true, improperly embargo
ed in French ports, for which they had
clairr, si payment, whether it would be ob
tained or not he knew not. He trusted
they were not to go to war to obtain this
payment ; he was persuaded that when the
treasury of France got into a better state
than it was at present that our merchants
would be paid ; but if war was to be gone
into there would be an end of payment. A
mericans,' he said, had been in the habit of
trading to what the French called relet ports,
in the Weft Indies, and, when the French
took our vessels going to those ports, would
it be right to go to war to get redress ? No
neutral power was permitted to trade with
this country when we were declared by Great
Britain to be rebels. Vessels taken in going
to Briti(h islands, in the Weft Indies, would
be looked upon as regular captures, but
those captured in going to rebel ports could
not be expefted to be compensated for. He
knew the French had taken vessels bound to
these regular ports ; but he also knew that
their numbers were small, and that, instead
of twelve millions, it might be found that
there had noe been to the amount of half a
million, or at mod, taken in this way.
And, said he,, (hall we go to war to recover
this ? he trusted not, but that the fame
course would be followed which had been
taken with refpeft to Briti(h spoliations.
At that time a negotiator was sent over to
Great Britain to fettle the business (and a
proper person he was, since it was not always
wife in such cases to fend persons who are
well known to have a friendly disposition for
the nation withwhom they go to treat. ) He
wondered the fee. of state (hould have left
the gentleman from South Carolina to refer
them to Mr. Skipwith's documents. The
man who carried on trade from this country
with British ports (which was mostly the
cafe at Philadelphia and New York) was
fubjeft to French spoliations ; he who trad
ed to French ports was in like manner fub
jeft to the spoliations of the British. Both
countries plundered us. (Mr; Harper wi(h
ed to have interrupted Mr. Smith ; but Mr.
S. would not give way, he said, to a man
who had told him, the other day, he knew
what he was going to fay better than he did
before he uttered his words. Besides, he
knew it was the practice in country courts
to endeavor to. confufe a speaker by interrup
tion, but he had been too long in public life
to be thus affefted.) .
The Speaker said, any member'had v a
right to call another to order. Mr, H. said
he did not mean to call the gentleman to or
der ; then, replied the Speaker, " You, Sir,
are out of order."
Mr. Smith proceeded; - He said tie.had
lately seen papers, which he meant to lay
before the secretary, of .state, from which he
found.that orders.had been issued in April
last by admiral Harvey and general Simcoe,
for taking all American Vessels bound for
Hifpaniola, and to carry- them into Cape
Nichola Mole. . H e ' had mentioned on a
■former Cccafion, the manner in which col.
Talbot had' been treated by the Britifli ad
miral, the gentleman from South Carolina
r,t thar time apologized for his conduft, by
faying colonel Talbot had behaved improp
erly, He no'jv informed that gentleman,
that so far from this colonel Talbot was not
permitred"tbswi to the admiral.
—The indignity (hewn to our minister, Mr. •
S. said, seemed to be more dwelt upon than
the spoliations. But, suppose, said he, we
were to complain to the French government,
might not M. De la Croix fay " What In
jury has been done to you ; your minister
could n<jt diplomatically be received, since
our minister has been recalled—you have
merely mistaken an article in diplomatic pro
ceedings." Suppose this were found to be
the cafe. The complaint would then only
be, " You did not (hew a fufficient degree of
politeness to our minister." The answer
might be, " We told him he might remain
amongst us fubjeft to the fame laws with
other ftrangcrs." And surely, said Mr. S.
we who are tenacious of our own laws,
(hall not refufe to refpeft those of other
countries. He confeffed he was no diplo
matic man, but he supposed this might be
the course such a complaint would take.
With refpeft to the previous question, it
appeared to him when principles had been
folly determined upon, and an attempt was
made to set them alide, this was the best way
of preventing the measure. . If the gentle-,
men who supported -the- proposition would
vote fur the whole, when amended he would
alfo-vote for it ; if not, he would vote for
the previous question j beeaiife he did not
like tricking.
Mr. Otis said-he was not deterred from
giving his opinion 011 this fubjeft, from the
high refponfibiifty which was attached to it;
he hoped that the previous question would
not prevail, but that the main question
would be put. If they were brot to a- dcci
fion on this question, it was.not the fault of
gentlemen on his fide. It appeared to him,
there could only be three realons for wi(hing
to postpone a decision on the main question ;
they Were, thq.t gentlemen were ready to
abandon the spoliations altogether, or that
it was inexpedient to enti?- into the discussi
on of them at present, or they were- r.ot pre
pared to enter upon it. With refpeft "to the
firft, he could Jnot believe any gentleman
wiihed seriously to give up the claims. As
to the feco«'', he believed it weald have
Wren expolieut, if they had net gfcne ob
tain kngtha ; but, if they wfire to dictate
to the.Prelident one set of terms, he wifheil
to add something to them which would ren
der them left exceptionable. But this was
called a war proposition, a trammelling of th:
Executive. A war proposition ! fiiid Mr. O.
a" redress of wroHgs ! Was it
ever' cr'niinal to, express a hope i Hope, the
confutation of the. Wretched—-Hope, whicli
tt>e nmlefactor at the bar may entertain with
out affronting his judge! If this were the
cafe, we werfsfthe last extremity of //«.
vtiTiatithk ■ Brit 'ft would trammel-the Exe
cutive. If it were not a ferioiis' fubjeft,
said he, any man-help, fmiijag, that
the fe men who -haVe advocated the equality
clavfe, should complain of this., If gentle
men'," addfcd M?l 0. will knock down the
Executive, on one' fide and the other, it
would be . necefftry for him to have a prop,
at some future period, tOi support himfelf,
either, by.meansof corruption or byforce!
But, he believed, if<they did not encroach
upon his prerogatives, he would be able to
support himfelf."
But gentlemen were unprepared to meet
the queflion. Why unprepared ? Because
we want documents. But, added he, sup.
pose there were no evidence,, or that the faft
was not true, where would be th* -danger of
hoping redress ? What member of the Ex
ecutive Directory could: complain of this ?
It would only be a vain hope, such as they
were many of them m tKe habit of making,
and which he had sifver heard were insult
ing. But would the gentleman from Mary
land go back to B.shimore and fay there
were no documents ? Were there not de
predations committed, and at this hour com
mitting upon the property of his conftftu
ents ? They would not permit him to doubt
on the fubjeft ; -they would fjy to him,
" look at the tears of the widows and chil
dren ; our injuries flare everyone m.[he
face ; they are kit in the heart of evtrv
man." ..
Another reason for- addi.ig tin's* clati/f *;
he did-sot decide that compenlation ana een
ceffion fh<jukl go hand in hand, Jbut..he
would riot decide the contrary ; and if-tfcey
were called upon-to respond one part offlie
speech, and-not the other, they would-be
understood to fay, they should not' go hand
in hand ; for according to a legal majfim,
the designation of one tßihg wa; the excln
fion of another." He believed it would be
seen by this vote, therefore;, who were- the
friends of the merchants, and who were not.
He denied that there was any trap intended
by this question. He profeifed it his inten
tion to vote for both propofition^."
Mr. Gallatin said the question hadaf
fumed fomewlwt of a different shape fmce
yesterday, as several gentlemen had expreflfed
their intention of voting fpr both 'proposi
tions, I his would have induced ham-to
vote for the amendment, for the- - fake <if
conciliation, if he had not strong.objections
to it; therefore, when he ftated'his reasons
for voting against the main question,, he did
it that they might be anfwerdd, if they were
not well founded. -
The gentlemen who supported this -a
mencknent, said, - c furely~ we can;have no
objeftion Jo express a hope.' If no more
was <jxpijefled, there.,could."net be a single
objection'to it. • r - - : '
Gentlemen need not to" have told them
there'was no degradation 4fi'eXprefiing a
hope. If it was nothing more it tfojild be
an unnecessary thing. ButtHe- amendment
proposed, not only helped thaffuch' a di'fpo
fition wonld ex iff," but it went on to i«y,
that that difpolition WQuld produce aa.ac
commodatio'n. It was to this he-objected.
He considered it in the shape of an ultima--
turn.. It was the condition of the hope that
it would produce accommodation If that
disposition was not found eh the part of
F ranee, there was no Lcpe of accommodation.
This appeared to him to.be the literal mean
ing of the amendment. He ifi ight be mis
taken ;' he wished a different 'coivfti-u&ion
could be given to it. Mr. Gallatin ; men
tioned several collateral rqafons for Believing
tliat this was the conftruciion- intended to be
given to it. If Mr. G. said", this proposition
was meant as ari uitimatinny it- would doubt-,
less strengthen the hands of the' Executive.
If they were prepared to fay, that except
the French will pay the amo'ulit.pf the spo
liations committed npon our ccmmerce, we
will go to war, it would have an efled.
Being, however, a doubtful thing, was a fuf
ficient reason for his voting in favour of thf
previous question. He denied tfiat it was
the fame thing to fay they would not take
up the btifinefs as to negative' it, since to
decline the consideration of it at present,
would not be to abandon it.
(The remainder of this debate to-morrow.)
Lailson's Circus,
South FiftbStrcct
The Public arc refpe&fuily informed fhafc
The Performances at the NE W CIRCIF3
To-Morrow June
Will.begin by a Grand Parade cf Equeftria.i
Pei formers of- both sexes.
A grand display of Horfemanihip*
By MefTrs. Hern an, C. Vande**ki/,
Nicholas Cone, Sully, {ihtf Clown,} and
Mr. Sully, in the chan cer ol CfoVvii,
perform a varicty.ot Comic-Feats.
Mr. Lajlson will perform leveral cynous and *• f
tonifhirig excreifesi which he will not undertake to
enumerate, in order to.forprizr the fpc&ator;. hit
aim being to please :—arid nothing (hall be
to render the exerciCes worthy the attention of the i*"
rnateurs of tbis new art. .
Ibe Pcdcjlal,
By the beautiful Pl-iaccfs—(which has never b»en #x
ecuted in America) i
After which wijl be prefertted '{for the second time)
the favorite french comic opera, called
Le Tableau Parlant;
Or, Tl;t Speaking Pidure.
With elegantnr.w fcenei y, execu ed by Mr. Perouanv.
The cvenihg'n entertainment will conclude by a
i'econd rcprefentation of the pantomime, called
Harlequin Mariner;
Or, THE DISTRESSED-TAR.
Wiih iliexstions, additions, ofw scenery, dccori
tiori, Sic.%t)C<sw tte*
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY ZrEHltfG,. JUNE. 7, 1797.
Tire following Bills kc before the Senate—
, Kil for raifinga:> additional corps nf Artillcriftj
and Engineers—Bi'l for r*ifing'ai» additional carpi
f lijht Dragoons—BiU pruvidicj for the protec
tion of the T> ad? of the United irit'.*.
Chi-iier Coupty, May 7j. '
j-Mavied on Tbcrfdrfy evening last by t'le Rev
n-' I}r. „A I'xander Francis Gardner/
M.-O.of Saclfburf.To-a'nfhipi to thc'amiaW* Mitt
fi'aria Wart, of KaJt tlaln Townfhiji.
I PRICES OF ST O'CKS.
6 per Cent. _ it/to
r Deferred 6 per Gent. 11/9 a i}f
1 5
4 pei'-Cuut.
. 3 fit Cunt. 10/1 a 6
B AN K S K A K £S.
Bank United States, IS a »o per cent, advance.
Peftnfylvania, 2j i 17-1-4
North America, 47
IXSURANCE COM?ANT SHIRES. j
I. C. of N. A- 35 a 37 £ per cent, advance..
' *• Pennsylvania, et par;
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
TUESDAY, JUNE 6.
The Speaker having taken the chair,
•Mr. W. Smiti: moved the order of the day
do the bill from the Senate for preventing
■the exportation of arms and ammunition
from the United States.
Mr. Nicholas hoped they should take
isp the unfinifhed business of yesterday, as
' having a priority of claim.
After a good deal of conversation on the
fufejeft, in the course of which each infift
••Cd upon the propriety of taking up tfie
melfure he advocated* as calling for the moil
jjßthediate attention, the motion was put
for taking lip the unfinifhed business of yes
terday, and negatived, there being 42 for
it, and 48 agajnft it. The speakers in favor
of going into a committee of the whole on
1 the State of the Union were, Messrs. Ni
cholas, Varr.um, S. Smith, Giles, Gallatin,
Baldwin and Livingfton ; those agairift it,
• and in favor of taking up the bill from the
. Senate in preference, Meflrs. W. Smith,
Rutkdge, Sewall, Brookes, Otis,andThatch
:tr.
•The motion for going into a committee of
the whole 00 the State of the Union, hav
ing been negatived,
Mr. W. Smith renewed his motion for
taking up the bill from the Senate for pre
venting the exportation of arms and ammu
nition.
Mr. Livingston moved toftrike out the
words " one year" so as to confine the du
ration of the bill to the end of the next ses
sion of Congress, which motion, after some
objections from Mr. W. Smith, on the
ground of delay, as the bp was already
engrossed, was carried 43 to 40.
Mr. Lyon wiftied to strike out the words
cannon and bombs, as he thought if the ex
portation of these articles were prohibited,
jt would confidently injure the manufactu
rers of them, and there could be no doubt
but a fufficierit quantity might always be
commanded fqr the use of theUnitedStates.
Mr. S. Smith thought this amendment
of some importance, as he believed there
was not more than one mar. in the State of
Maryland, who knew how to bore a cannon ;
and if he were taken from the employment
by a law of this kind, it was probable,
whenever the manufactory W33 refurced, he
might not be found.
Mr. Lyon said, it was not altogether
with the fame view which the gentleman
from Maryland had given of the subjeCt,
that he had brought forward the motion.
The New England States, could produce
one hundred men acquainted with the bor
ing of cannon. Every furnace would be
glad to be employed in this business and
as to the carting of balk and (hells, there
was nothing easier. The reason for which
he wifried these articles (truck out was, be.
csufe he did not wish these manufactories to
be deprived of employment.
The motion was put and negatived.
Mr. Dayton (the Speaker) wished to
make a motion, which he supposed might,
in some degree, effeCt the end proposed by
the motion of the gentleman from Vermont.
It was to ilrike out bombs and cannon balls.
t He did not think there need be any fear oi
the United States falling short of these, as
the single State of New-Jersey, or a single
county of that State, could cast fufficient
to supply the whole world.
Mr. Brookes enquired whether these
were articles exported ? If they were not,
the mention of them could do no harm.
Or, whether these articles and powder were
not purchased for the use of the picaroons
which were so troublesome to our trade.
Mr. Gordon thought if there was no
greater advantage attending a regulation oi
this kind, than that of depriving our ene
mies of these articles which might be used
against us, he thought the provision a good
one.
_Mr. Dayton believed that the operatior
l thi» provision would be the destruCtion
j ,cf these manufactories. In answer to the
gentleman from New-York, he could infortr
him, that many of these articles were ex
ported from Nejv-Jerfey, and from the towr
in which he lived ; but if the exportatior
«.fas (lopped for any length of time, the fur
inces would be turned to some other bufi
ness ; and, in fix months from the pafling o
this aft, there would be a greater fcarcit}
of theie articles than if the bill had not pal'
led. An act of this kind might, indeed
' carry an imposing air, and look as if it meant
lo take care of ourselves. If the bill were U
!>.!&, however, he (hould be glad to have
i- pass with this amendment.
Mr. S. Smith observed, that in a for
S't-T law of this kind, bomb j and cannoi
bills were not included. It was a feed wh<
i mported these articles, or for what purpofi
were used ? To lay who exported then
would not be right, as they were cor.tn
hand, and hi could not tell >vhonfed them,
nor v,-as it an objeCt of their enquiry. Pic
caroons had no occasion for them, since they
went along fide veflels and boarded them.
The fame argument which was used against
exporting these articles, might be used a
.gainst the exportation of provisions.
Mr. W. Smith said the bill was predica
ted upon being an injury to manufacturers ;
nor did he know why they (hould make an
exception in favor of one more than another,
which would give iuft cause of complaint.
The Qperat.on of "Vie bill, fir.ce the amend
ment had been carried, would be of (hort
duration. The objeCt of it was two-fold,
viz. to preserve these articles in this Coun
try, to be ready in cafe of emergency, and
to keep them from foreign powers, ■ who
might turn them against us. Though we
had no occasion, at present, for cannon
balls,, we could not help looking forward to
the time when they tnight be wanted ; and
though nobpmbs were at prefentufed against
us, yet the time might probably arrive, when
they might be so used, and it was politic to
guard against the poflibility of it.
Mr. Brookes faid,though this law might
operate an injury to manufacturers, yet he
did not believe it would be so great as had
been supposed, as the places where these
were cast, were not wholly employed in this
business, but cali also innumerable quanti
ties of hollow ware, as well as metal in
pigs ; when they wsre not, therefore, em
ployed in manufacturing articles for the de
(lruCtion of mankind, they were employed
in making such as were of use to them.
Mr. Nicholas said, this subjeCt had ta
ken a much more serious fliape thau it aflum
ed when it was firft introduced. It seemed
as if it were not so much the intention of
the law to regulate our own wants, as to
prevent thf. supply of Foreign Powers, —
with warlike articles. This, he said, might
be attended with very serious incotivenien
| cies, since it would certainly operate princi
pally against one of the belligerent powers ;
and except we are prepared and determined
i upon war, we (hould be careful in provoking
it. It was conceded that there was no pro
bability of our wanting bombs or cannon
balls, the operation of the law was of course
; intended against ope of the belligerent pow
ers ; for though both had an equal right at
! present to come here and purchase these ar
ticles, even' one would fee that France
would be principally affeCted by the regula
tion. It would be little (hort of hostility,
| therefore, to fay these articles (hould not be
exported. Indeed, he feared there was
more in this business than the Committee
' understood ; that they were taking a ground
I which could not be maintained, and which,
pending a negociation, ought not to be ta
j ken.
| Mr. S. Smith said, he believed that
1 some of the manufacturers of cannon ball?
might be maufaCturers of hollow-ware, for
he understood there was an 'aCtion now pen
ding on account of their a par
cel of cannon balls hollow, which had burst
the cannon in which they were fired, and
■ done other mifchief.
Mr. Lyon believed the gentleman from
New York was not well acquainted with
the business. Hollow-ware and pigs were
not cast at the fame furnaces with bombs
and cannon balls. Many furnaces worked
with oor which though not fit for pigs, &c.
answered very well for cannon balls and bomb
(hells. In his diltriCt there was several of
these manufactories, which exported many
of these articles into Canada. He trusted
gentlemen would not have the fame objec
tion so fending them thither, that they had
to fending them to French ports.
Mr. Thatcher thought this law could
give no nation cause of complaint, because
the articles were contraband, and it would
perhaps have the good effeCt to prevent the
loss. of some of our own velTels, employed
in carrying them..
Mr. Harper thought the objection of
the gentleman from Virginia deserved some
conlideration. No meaiure of defence had
been, or seemingly could be mentioned, but
it was said it might give offence to France.
I He a(ked how long we were to be deterred
I from taking such meafurss as (hould seem
to be necessary, for fear of offending France.
If we were not to take general meafurcs foi
the protection of our citizens, because there
might be a poflibility France would not ap
prove them, where was the humiliation to
ltop ? He supposed we (hould next be told
that we mult not fortify, our ports, or arm
our veflels, left it (hould be offenfive to
France. He trusted that House would no
i longer hold so difgraceful a language, but
that they (hould consult what would be foi
our own good, without reference to any fo
reign nation. Our Government, he-observ
ed, had not said it would never prohibit the
exportation of arms and ammunition. The
| English had been permitted to purchase
these articles, of which the French com
plained, and equal liberty was given to both
nations ; but this was no reason why botl
nations might not be prohibited from doinj:
so, if it (hould be found expedient. Ant
j though he did not believe that all the advan
tages which were expeCted, would be deri
-j ved from this law, yet he (hould be in favou:
1 of it, not because it would not offend a so
reign nation, but because it would be fer
viceable tq ourfelvea ; for, he said, if the;
were to go on, in consulting the feelings o
,'J the French nation on what they did ; if the;
saw us thus prostrate and feeble, they woulc
. soon take advantage of our timidity an(
folly. On the contrary, he would (hew so
reign nations that we were determined ti
■ regulate our own affairs in our own way, ii
the way of juitice ; for, if we went on ii
the present humiliating way, he fliould no
1 be surprised at receiving a note from th
French Miniiter, faying that such and fuel
a law must be repealed, as they were offen
. five to the French. Directory.
1 I Mr. Dayton, thinking himfelf allude
1 to by the gentleman just fat doWA, proceed
ed to a(k if he ftleant to insinuate that h
1 was aCtuated by other motives than the goo
of his country, when Mr. Harper interrupt
cd lum ,by faying expressly, he had never
intimated any such thing. His remarks be
ing confined to the gentleman from Virginia, i
Mr. Nicholas said he would tell the '
gentleman from South Carolina when he '
would cease to hear this clamor about offend
ing foreign countries. It would be when he r
found a greater disposition in all the depart- j
ments of government for preferring the peace !
of this country ; when he was Convinced
they ha d as great a desire to preserve this
blefling as he had. He did not believe this
was the cafe at present; and it was from this
distrust, that he fufpefted every measure
which was brought before them. Was he
not juftified he a iked, in faying that a mea
sure of tliis kind was calculated to remove
peace from us, as it was a measure which
would operate wholly (as he before slated)
against the French. Mr. N. said he dis
dained to answer what the gentleman had
said about fear. It could not be found in ,
him : and he thought that gentleman was ,
possessed of no small degree of assurance to ,
fancy that he ( Mr. N.) was less attached ,
to the interests of this country than he him- ■
felf was. He felt as sensibly for his country (
as any man ; and therefore he could not help
cxpreffing his apprehensions of war, from
every step which gentleman seemed inclined
to take.
Mr. Brookes did not expe£t the argu
ment to have taken this turn. There was |
nothing to prove that thefc articles were not (
as necessary for our own fafety as the other.
It had been said they wera call in plenty iri t
one part of the Union, but they might not •
be call at all in ofher parts. He disclaimed
all idea of considering how the measure would (
affeft any other nation ; he attended only
to his own, and he believed they were at li
berty to prohibit the exportation of any ar- (
ticle whatevev.
Mr. Gallatin said the gentleman just
fat down had forgotten his own arguments.
He charged others with having reference to (
foreign nations, in fpeakir.g to this question, .
when he and the gentleman from South Ca
rolina were the firft to introduce the mention
of them ; it was them ; it was therefore j
not right in him to charge others with doing
what he himfelf had done.
Mr. Brookes replied that he had said no- (
thing about foreign nations.. It was true .
he had supposed the Picaroons which inter
cepted our Weft India vessels might have ,
been served with these articles ; but gentle- !
men had denied that these were authorized , (
by France.
Mr. Lyon would have no obje&ion to i
join the gentleman last up in withholding
these articles from the Picaroons, if his con
stituents might be fuffered to transport their
manufactures down the Lake to Canada.
Mr. Havens said, it appeared as if those
gentlemen who opposed the amendment, be- .
lieved we could monopolize all the bombs :
and cannon balls. He believed Piccarooris :
could get these things independent of us,
and that we need be under no apprehension
of wanting them ourfelv£s.
Mr. Harper believed there was policy
in preventing the exportation of implements ;
of war which might be turned against us. !
He did not accuse the gentleman from Vir
ginia with personal fear ; he believjd he was
incapable of it; but he doubted whether his
zeal for serving his own cpuntry would be so
great as he profeffed, when the interest of
another country happened to clash with that,
of his own.
Mr Dayton referred to a former pro- '
hibition law, to fnew tbat cannon balls were
■ not included in the lift. He believed they
I might make the proposed prohibition with- j
out giving just cause of offence to any foreign 1
[ nation, and therefore if they were offended
: we need not care ; but if the only "objeft was ■
! to preserve a larger quantity of these articles
in this country (is he had before observed) j
[ the end would be defeated, as it would both '
discourage the manufacturing and importa
f tion of them ; but as it would have an ap
: pearance of an intention to defend ourselves
[ against the unjust attempts of any Fo
t reign Nation, if the amendment was agreed
. to, he should vote for the resolution ; and
1 if it were not, he had not determined to vote
1 against it.
Mr. Williams wished this aft to be
r conformable to that passed in. 1794, which I
; had been attended with good effe&s. He
- therefore moved that the amendment (hould
> be divided.
1 The question wasdividedaccordingly, and
i the sense of the committee was firft taken u
) pon striking out the word—" bomb Jhells,"
> which was negatived, there being 41 votes
t for it, and 45 against it. The question
r was then taken upon striking out the words
- " cannon balls," and carried, there being 52
- votes in favor of it.
: The committee thenrofe and reported the
1 bill as amended. It was taken up in the
; house, the amendments confirmed and or
- dered to be engrossed for a third reading this
1 day, which it afterwards received ; but from
1 an obje&ion as to the propriety of the word
r ing of the penal clause, the palling of it was
i postponed until to-morrow.
On motion of Mr: W. Smith, the house
- resolved itfelf into a committee of the whole
r on the bill from the Senate to prevent citi
-- zens ofthe United Statesprivateering ageinft
- nations in amity with, or against citizens of
y the United States. After some cativerfati
f on on this bill, particularly as to its opera
y rion, whether it (hould affedl only Ameri
i can citizens concerned in armed vessels fitted
d out by private persons, or whether it should j
1- affeft all citizens employed in any foreign
o service in cruising against the vessels of the
n United States, upon which fubje&s there
n appeared a considerable variety of opinion,
it* the bill was re-committed to a felett com
e mittee of five members, in order to be put
h into a somewhat different form.
1- Adjourned.
d 'WANTED,
A BOUT »oo tons of freight, tor any port
ie ll in Spain, or the Mediterranean in a neu
'd 11 al bottom. Enquire of JA MES Y/RD
t. June 7. ' ; t
By this day's Mai].
NEW-YORK, June 5.
Last evening? as a young man was walk
ing near the dock at the old flip, two Irifh
j meD, palling at the time, wantonly pushed
I him into the riyer, and he was drowned be
' fore any alfiftance could be given him. The
offenders were inftaritly secured by the city
watch, who witnessed the brutal tranfa&ion.
The following is a translation of a letter
from the Bulletin of Havre, ajrived in a
Nantz paper by the Love, received yester
day.
Executive Dire&ory.
Paris, 15 Ventofe, March J, 1797*
The minister ofjthe marine and the colonies
to the principal commissary of the marina
at Havre.
" You have done well, citizen, in disa
vowing, in tlie maritime Journals, the report
which had prevailed, that the French go- j
vernment had given an order to seize the
vessels of the United States of America.—
This falfe news, like many other reports, is
the fruit of the manoeuvres of malevolence,
or of combinations of cupidity."
True copy,
(Signed) LEROY.
Selected from Paris papers to April. 2d,
by the brig Dublin Packet, from Havre de
Grace. ' f
Accounts from Brussels mention that ma
ny piec« of artillery of large calibre from';
Thionville, have passed by Luxemburg to
wards the Hunfdruck, and appearances in
dicate that the campaign will open on the
Rhine with the siege of Mentz.
The high court of justice which bad been
occupied with the trial of the conspirators,
Babeuf, Dunan, See. Judgment was to be
pronounced April 2.
Peace, peace, fays a Paris paper—This is
the with of every one in France, who retajns
a particle of humanity.
On the 2d of April, it was reported in
Paris, that a courier had arrived in four days
from Turin, to Mr. Spinola, the Genoese
minister, with intelligence that the prelimi
naries of peace had been signed by the mar
quis of Lucchini, Austrian minister in Italy,
and general Clarke. The principal condi
ditions were said to be, the cession of Belgi
um to France by the emperor, and the ces
sion to the emperorby the French, of all their
conquests in Italy, comprehending the three
legations taken from the pope.
This news was not fully credited. But
fays the Paris editor, " Let us hope—hope
is the sweet consolation of the wretched.—
But peace in the interior—Great God 1
When lhall we have it ?"
An article from Vienna mentions, that
propositions for peace had actually been
made by the French to the emperor, which
held out to him an indemnification in Italy
for Belgium; in consequence of which a
council of state had been convened, to which
some ambassadors of the powers in amity
with the emperor had been invited.
A letter from Frankfort, of March 17,
states, that from the'campaign of 1792, to
that of 1796, the Auftrians had 9 generals
killed, and 20 wounded ;.1166 officers kill
ed and 2005 wounded ; 37,803 under offi
cers and soldiers killed , and 86,216 wound
ed.
The French took from captain Glad his
vessel, and turned her into a privateer, with
out ceremony. They did not even alii his
permission.
Thomas Paine was to have taken passage
to America in the Dublin Packet, from Ha
vre de Grace ; but the captain refufed to
_*':e him. We presume the owner will ap
-4 ,iud the captain's condudt; as Paine would
certainly have come to a lad market.
The Americans are treated very caverlier
ly in France.
June 6.
Extraft of a letter from a refpeftable gen
tleman at Montreal, dated 21ft May.
" We have lately takeu up a spy from
your country in the pay of Mr. Adet: he is
called general M'Lean, was born in Rhode-
Island, and has been several times in this
province last summer to feel the pulse of the
j difaffedted Canadians. This last vilit, he was
! so daring as to aim at surprising the garri
son at Quebec, whilst the change of quar
ters of the different regiments were taking
place ; but he reckoned without his hoft—
■the firft man he opened his plan to at Que
bec informed against him, and he is now in
irons, and will Ihortly be tried."
BOSTON, June a, 1797.
ELECTION.
On Wednesday, agreeably to the con fiitu
tion, the members of the New Lrgiflatuie,
aflembled at the State-Houf;, where his Excel
lency the Governor soon afterwards appeared,
and administered the qualifying oaths. The
Senate and House then separated, and the for
mer elected the hon SAMUEL PHILLIPS,
Esq. Pre/ideni, and the latter, the Hon. EDW,
H. ROBBINS, fffq. Speaker, and HENKY
WARREN, Efq .Clerk. Having disposed of
other preliminary business, and the other offi
cers of the government attending, a procession 1
wa» formed to the Old Brick Xeeting-Houf, I
where a well adapted sermon was delivered by j
the Rev. Mr. Mellen, of Uurnjlahle,'trom
Peter 1. eh. ii. v. 15, " Fir so is the will of
God, thai with welldoing, ye may put to Jilence
the ignorance of foalifh men '
The Independent Cadets, did the military
honors of the day, with a propriety always their
charaftereftie. The Bolton Artillery, under
Capt. bradlee paraded and fired a Federal Sa
lute, on the organization of the Legislature.
In the afternoon both branches of th« Gene
ral Court aflembled in convention, and filled
up th e vacancies in the Senate.
THURSDAY, JI'ME I.
The Rev. Dr THACHIiIi was appointed
Chaplain of the House.
The lommittee appointed, reported, That
they had exaimiicd the returns of vote* for
Governor, and found, that tlic Honourable
. INCREASE SUMNER, Esq. waseleited.
The committee for examining the votes for
Lt. Governor, reported, tha: His Hon, MOSES
t GILL, Esq. wa6 eleflcd.
afternoon.
The csmmittee appointed to wait on the Go
vernor elegit reported, that he would attend the
I fcegifldtiire, Jo-morrow at no clock, in o:def
I to tak and subscribe the coilitutional Oaths.
I The Committee appointed to wail on Hit Ho
nor the J-t Gov. reported) that he would reply
to the mtflage this day or to morrow.
THIS DAT %
Between ii and i o'clock.
The Hon- INCREASE SUMNER, E'4.
will b* declared GOVERNOR of the com-
MONWFALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS, from the
State-House in this town. A large number or
the rcfpe-Jlible citiitns of Roiburj, joined by
many of the inhabitants of Eofion, on hdrfcback
and (n carriages* will elcort the Governor elttl
from his Seat to the Governwient-Houfe, ahd
will form a very conlider.ib!« caVakade 011 the
occasion»
The Boston Artillery, wj I fire a fal'-ie from
Fort-Hill, as loon as the celebration of the elec
tion is m ide.
An eitirfnteof votes in a paper of
May a6>. gives l-lon. H. Dearborn 1150 votes,
and Hon. I. Parker 1639,
Brig Fusilier, Titcuiob, of . Ncwburyport,
bound to Ireland, was brought too by a French
privateer, and the captain ordered onboard in
his own'boar, and with liis papers, which he
complied with ; on returning:, tint tea running
high tlie boat oyerfe;, and the captain and two
hands he had with him in the boat, 101 l their
livti." { . . • s " " •' ■
' . - i*
NORFOLK, May 39.
On Friday last, two boys (apprentices to
tradesmen) Ifavingj a dispute, to box ;
as they were preparing for-the combat, one
of "them flatbed the other with a knife in the
bread, which killed him oh the Ipcit. The
murderer Was immediately seized and win
m itted to prism :
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Port 'cf Philadelphia. .
CLEARED. .
Ship Inclination, Kotlei", Eremen
Harmony, Price, Hamburgh
Snow Good Hope, Ganmany, 6t Croix
Brig Fair Hebe, £ldridge, ditto
Governor Brook, M'Cutchou, St. Domingo
Lilly, Green, Norfolk
Schr. Fair American, Logan, Folly Landir*g
Herminia, King, Port au Prince
H;tty, Shores, Casiden
Dolphin, Kcntee, Alexandria
Sloop Rodv, Rodeo, Halifax, N S.
Patty, Mitchell, Georgetown
Margaret, Cope«, Virginia
Patience, Willis, New York
Captain Holland of the Thomas from Liverpool
spoke April 19th, lat. 24, 40, long. 4'Weft die
brig Two Sifters, Robertfon, of PeterAurgh, out
17 days from Norfolk to Port Glasgow.
The bri« Thetis from Baracoa to this port, 3
days ont, is loft on the rocks near Sugar Keys,
crew and part of th= ca-'go saved by a New Pro
vidence privateer.
Capt. Stewart of t,he Mary Ann, from St. Übe»
spoke, May iz'th, in lat. 37 long. 60 the brig Pol
ly Smith, out 5 days from Boston to Surrinam,
24th, lat. 37, »6, long- 67, spoke the "Clip Virginia
Davis, out three days frorft Norfolk to London,
in company with the (hip Cleopatra, out ten days
from Charleflon to Hamburgh. -
The schooner Thomas W#od, failed from Bar*
badees the 14th ult. in company with the schooner
Susannah, Carson, of and for this port, 13th was
chafed and fired at by a Blip under i-nglifk colour*,
but on the schooner's (horteningfail, (he boreawisy
to the S. E. May lSth. lat. ao, long. 69 W parted
with the Susannah, 19th lat. 34 it, long. 71,.
spoke the (hip Two Friends, from New York to
the Weft Indies, out, 6 days, all well. Left at Bar
badoes the Ihip —, Johr.fon, of Alexandria,
brig Jane and Eliza, Foltsr, Wilmington, S. C.
brig Hope, Church, New-London, schooner He
roine, , ditto.
Mav the 6th, failed from Barbadoes, with a
fleet for St. Kitt'i under convoy of the Alarm fri
gs te, the following-veflels: -
Brig Independent, Boyd, of and for Wifcafla t;
fehr.Nancy, Hanlom, of Frcderickfburg for Balti
more, and a schooner from Kennebunk, name un
known. The brig Eliza, Harrington, of this
port, arrived in the Tcxel, from Cowes, the 27th
March last.
Charleston, May 23. •
Yeilerday arrivd the (hip Ma'ilda, Torobi,
New York, 7 days(hip Sifters, Wells,
London, 47 days from the Downs and 6<j
from' London ; brig Integrity, Henderf»n r
47 days.
New-Tori, June 5.
From the log-book of the brig Love, cap
tain Glad, from Nantes.
May 25, was boarded by the English
transport, Ganges, of Londorl, from the bay
of Honduras, with troops, bound to Ports
mouth, detained us two hours and then per
mitted us to proceed, lat. 36, 1, long. 64,
48.
Captain Clay spoke the following veflels :
April 23? lat* 45, 43, long* 31, 00, spoke
(hip Alknomat, of Wifcaflet, captain Wheel
wright, from Greenock, bound to Charles
ton. out 19 days.
May 28, lat. 39, 39, long. 67, spoke (hip
Hare, captain Doland, 9 days from New.
York, bound to Liverpool.
Veflels arrived at Havre :
March 28, (hip Neptune, from Savannah,
captain Carey, of Providence, out 41 days.
March 30, (hip Franklin, Haffe, of Lof
ton, 46 daps from Wilmington N. G. ~
March 31 i arrived brig Columbia; captain
Barker, 40 days from New-York.
March 3 1, (hip George, Rice, of Phila
delphia, from Charleflon, 36 days out.
The (hip Sally, from Guernsey, laden
with brandy, coffee and sugar, bound to
! Dieppe, was taken by a French privateer at
I the mouth of the harootir, and carried in :
it is supposed (he will be condemned,
. tlier with the cargo, in consequence of not
] having a paflport agreeable to the 2 ar?
ticle of the treaty of '7Bl concluded be
tween France and America.
. Ni\vßO«yroßT»-ju*i r.
GUADALOUPEEMBARGOED.
Yellerday artived here schooner Lucy* Jo
fephGunnifon mailer,in 2odavs from Gilada
loupe. Capt. Guimifon informs, that just be
ta™ he left there, an embargo toek placeon all
American veflels in the I (land. Capt. G.
cut out in the night, and 1)y that means for
tunately got clear. The following vcfTeU were
at Point-a Pctre when Capt. Gunnifon left
there. Brig , lfrael Young ; Brig Dove,
Wyat, Schooner Choate, all of this
Port, Lat 40' 48' spoke a Schooner from
the Bi iks l>nind to Chatham.
New-England Rum,
In and Sirre't, for sale by
rZEIUEL HALt,.
June 7, 4 t.The Comnuflioners
TPOR carrying into ciTe& the sixth article of the
J* tr;«y of amity,lommerce and navigation, eon
eluded between his Britannic majtfty and the Unit- d
S-tatcsof Araerira, en- the 19th day ot November,
1794, having this day constituted tUeir Board,—
purliunt and agreeabiy to the laid treaty, do here
by £ ive notice, that they are ready to proceed t»
business accordingly; and they defiro that all claims
under the said article (which so far as the fame de
ferikes the cases thereby provided for, is hereunto
annexed) may be lodged with their Secretary with
out delay.
They further delire that all such claims may not
oni/ftate in what manner the several cases come
within the deferiptioa of the said article, but also
cfpccially ftt forth vhe nature of the evidence by
which the claimants refpeitivcty undertake tofub
ftantiatc the fame.
Exjradl from the said article,
" Whereas it is alledgcd by div«rs Britilh mer
" chants, and others his majcft\ s fubje^ts, that
" debts to a confid-rablo amount, which were bona
" fide contracted, before the peace, {till reraain
11 owing to them by citizen# or i»habitar.ts .of the
•• United States; and that by the operation of va
*• rious lawful impediments, fifice the peace, D3t
•' only the fuil recovery of the said debts has been
«• delayed, but alfothe value and security thereof
" have been in several instances impaired and jeff
" ened, so that by the ordinary course of judicial
" proceedings, the Britilh creditors cannot now
" obtain and a<stually have and receive full and
" adequate compenlation for the lofftn and dama
" ges which tney have thereby fuf ained: It is a
" greed that in all such cases where full compenfa
«• tion for such losses and damages cannot for what
€* ever rcafon be a&uully obtained, had and recei
« ved by the said creditors in the ordinary course
« of justice, the United States will make full and
" complete compensation for the fame to the said
" creditors : but it is diftinAly umlerftood, that
* l this proviiion is to extend to such losses only as
" have been occasioned by the lawful impediments
« aforcfaid, and is not to extend to losses occalion
" ed by such infolvcnty of the debtors or other
" causes, as would equally have operated to pro
•' duce such loss, if the said impediments had not
" existed s nor to furh losses or damages =s have
" been occasioned by the manifeft delay, ornegli
" gencc, of wilful omiflion of the claimant.
Br order of the Board,
GRIFFITH EVANS,
Secretary.
Philadelphia, CommMßoners' Office,
No. 3 south Sixth-street, May 19,
1797. J 6—S lm
William Haydon,
Drawing Majler, from London ;
WHERE he studied several years under one
of the molt eminent mailers in that sci
ence. He attends young ladies and gentlemen
at their rfefpetflive houses. His terms are fix
dollars per msnth for attendance three times
per week; likewise all kind of ornamental
painting, fruit, flowers, &c, taught on the above
terms.
A line directed to W. Haydon, No. 16, Pear
street, will be immediately attended to.
W. H. flatters himfetf his terras will be par.
ticularly advantageous, where there are several
pupils in the fame family ; as he makes no al
teration in his terms if there are two or three
to teach in one family.
May 9.
Muficcil Ittjrument Manufactory,
No. 167, Arch-Street.
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable grand,
fid -board, pier table and square piano forte
mak.r from London, returns thanks to his friends
and the public, for their liberal encouragement,
and hopes that by his afliduity and attention to ev
ery branch of his business, to merit a continuance
of their favors. Piano fortes made on th« newest
and mod approved plans, with pedals, patent,
swell, and French harp stop, which heflatteis
himfelf will l.c found on trial by unprejudiced
judges, to be equal if not superior to any import
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inftru
mcnt purchased of him, if not approved of in
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of Musical mftruments made,
tuned, and repaired with the greatest accuracy,
dispatch, and on the most reafouable, terms, foi
ready money only.
Second hand Piano Fortes t-Jten in exchange.
May tt. u&»m.
N O T I CE.
THE fuhferiber having sent by the (hip Nancy,
Capt. Perry, the following certificates of the
United States bank flock, to wit :
No. 26,015, to 16,014, inciufive, for three
(hares each—and the said vessel having been cap
tured on her intended voyage to England, which
will mod probably occasion the loss of the said
certificates, gives this pulilic notice,
That he lhall apply at the proper offices f#r a re
newal of them, and that means have been taken
to.prevent any improper traiikfer.
Henry Philips,
No. 111, South Front-street.
June 1. 3aw6w
Laws of the U. S.
SIVIFT's EDITION.
JuJl Publijhed,
Price 6 dollars, \ vol. izmo.
Sold by W. Young, Mills and Son, H. and
P. Uice, M. Carey, R. Campbell and Co.
Laws of the United States,
From the commencement of the Federal Govern- \
ment to the end 0} the lafi ScJJion of Con- I
grefs, which terminated Mirch 3, 1797.
r TPHIS edition, published under an order of
A Congress of the United States, has many
peculiar advantages. In the former one, each
volume had a separate index, whieh rendered
the reference in all cases, difficuli and trouble
some, and in many alrooft impoflibie. The in
dexes were, moreover, very injudiciously com
piled. On the contrary, in theprefent edition,
there is one copious, luminous index, com
piled by Zephaniah Swift, Esq. referring to
all the volutnes, and comprising in itfelf a com
plete digefl of all the laws of the United States.
Philadelphia and Lancaster Turn
pike Company.
A meeting of the Stockholders of the Phila
delphia arid LancaQer Turnpike Company, will
te held at the Company's Office, on Monday,
10 o'ctock, the uthjune next.
WILLIAM GOVETT. Sec'ry.
May it. fr 4w.
Mr. Pickering's Letter to Gen.
Pinckney.
A few copies of the above -intspsfiing papefr,
may be had at the office of the Gazette cf the U
nited States.
M.yi 3 §
An elegant House in Arch-street.
TO be let and entered' on immediately,* large and
elegant House at the corner of Arch and Nuuh-ttreet
There are lw» drawing rooms *nd one dining room
—the largest is 31 feet by 26 —and two arc (o con
nected by folding doors as to make but one. Also,
five bed rooms, beside five in the garret, well finifti
ed for fervanfs. There are ltebles and a coach house,
with every convenience for a family. Enquire at No.
ag, in Nortfi Se.eruh street, or at No. 118, Arch
ftreet.
Also to be rented for the summer season, a small
neat boul'e and garden about 3 1-2 miles fiom the
city, with ttables and coaca house. Enquire as above.
June 6. »aw3w
Lancaster, Harrijburgb, Carlijle,
Sbtppenjburg and Sun bury
STAGES.
THE public are requcfted to take notice, that
the partnership which has for some time sub
sisted betweow Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, i* now diffnlvcd . but, not as M.
Slough iniinuates to the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je& from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December lad. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
more cireumftantially infarmed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
theperufal «f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfectly juftifiable in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this business, William Geer, in conjunction with
Meflrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to profecut* and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub- ,
lie can poflibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the paflage fctfe and commodious, inform
those wno wish to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
established.
For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from
of Samuel Elder, m Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
and return from thcßce and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that paflengers destined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed oti Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 27, i? 97-
N. B. This Line ef Stages starts from the
house of William Perrae, in Lancaster, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr* Samuel Elder in Harriiburg every Wednes
day morning, oh the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour from Philadel
phia ; ; mwf
To be Sold,
The time of a Negro Man,
WHO has about fix years and an half to
ferye. He is honoft and sober, a toler
able waiter, and understands driving a carriage.
For terras apply at No. 113, Souih Third
Street.
May 25. eo<l6t-
For Sale,
That well known place, called Vjndbgritt's
Fiitr,
ON Nefhaminy creek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York port road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
premises are a large two ltery stone house occu
pied as a tavern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame {table with a good threshing
floor, and feme out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a mod elegant Ctuation for a gentle
roan s feat, commanding a view of the Nelham
iny to its junflion wiih the Delaware, and thence
across to' the Jersey shore. It has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Subferiber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
May 84. jjtawtf.
To be fold or let,
And immediate pojfejfion given,
A genteel two story Brick House ;
SITUATE on the utiper end of Broad-street, in
the city of Burlington, with four rooms and
an entry on each floor, good cellars under the
whole, a pump in the yard, a garden and court
yard, containing nearly half an acre under good
ience, with a {table adjoining the yard. The
whole property is in good order.
For terms apply to the fubfenber in BHrlington,
who will give a credit for a considerable part of
the purchase money if good security is given.
William Coxe, jun.
May 17. lawtf
Received by the Indoftan,
From Madras,
A SMALL invoice confifling of the following
Coast Ooods, viz.
Blue Cloths
Long Cloths, 14 punjums
Do. do. firie
Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and
Book Mullins
WILLING Id FRANCIS-
March 2j. 3aw
For Sale,
At this Office,
No. 119 Chefnutjlreet,
A few copies of a late Report of a Committee
of the Senate, en the fubjedt of the
GEORGIA LANBS.
March 13 {
TO BE SOLD,
And pofleflion given immediately,
A Lot of Land ;
e>IT{JATED in Mount-Holly, in the county
U of Burlington, in New-Jersey, lately occu
pied by Francis Bullus, Esquire, upon which ara
an excellent brick house, two ft.ries high, with
four convenient rooms on each floor, also a good
{table, carriage house and other buildings. The
situation is valuable for business of any kind, and
at least equal to any other in the tow».
The terms of payment will be made easy to
the pgrchafer. Apply to William Roflell, Esq.
aire, John Perry, or Richard Coxe, merchants,
in Mount Holly, cr to the Subferiber, in the city
of Burlington.
JOSEPH M^IWAINE.
Burlington, 17th April Ma yj—s3W
To be fold cheap,
To close an adventure,
-r Bales Bafta3
1 ditto ColTas
Apply at the Store of
Merdecai Lewis.
May x 6 ccaw
Just publlflied,
By J. Ormrod, No. 41, Cbefsut-flrcct, and to be
had of the oilier Bookfeliers also,
An Address to the Graduates in
Medicine :
Delivered at a Medical Commencement in the Uni
uerfity of Pennsylvania, held May mh, 1797. By
John Andrews, D. D. Vice-Provost.
June 6. e33p
Advertisement.
PURSUANT ta an Order from the Orphans * Court,
w ill be fold at PUBLIC SALE, at Cranberry, on
Wedneflhfy, the 14th day of fune next, all that valuable
REAL ESTATE, late belonging to the Rev. Gilbert
T. Snowden, deceifed, lying in and near Cranberry, in
the county of Middlifex, townjhip of South B run hutch,
Hate of New Jersey, upon the lower Jlage road leading
from Philadelphia to Neiv York. A very elegant frame
house in a beautiful and healthy filiation, pair.ted white,
with Venetian window fbutters, tbitty feet front and
thirty-eight feet deep, two rooms with a handsome ball or
entry bn the frjl floor, three rooms on the second floor and
two well-finijhed garrets. In the rear of the house is an
(Kce'lent two-Jlory building confiding of a dining-room f r
ivork people, spacious pantries and a Inrgr kitchen, ivitb
every convenience, and over these are three chambers for
fervavts. To the right is an additional building conftfling
of a chamber below and a library above—under the 'whole
are very fine cellars pairi -with brick. The house. is en
tirely neiv and fmijhed with tafle. Every room is hung
with bells thai lead both to the kitchen and the fervunts y
apartments : there is a pump in the yard; and a Jione
and brick pavement round the whole house, which is ertclof
ed with a handsome railings with three gates in front.
The farm confijls of one hundred and f'xty seven acres,
with a proportion of woodland and meadow, wider excel'
lent fence ; a garden with pale fence ; a large barn, Jla
hies, carriage-bouse, cow-houses, life, all neiv, and built
in the befl manner : with a young orchard of 200 grafted
trees. Nearly adjoining said farm is a lot of IVoodland
of thebejl quality, containing 37 acres. Also a traft of
land within seven miles if Cranberry, containing one hun
dred and fifty acres, three-fourths meadow and thereto ex
cellent timber. This will be fold in lots or together, as
will bejl suit the pur chafers.
The payments, one third cafh —one third in one year—
and the remaining third, one year following, with inter eft
on the two lafl payments, and approved feeurity.
For further particulars enquire of Nathaniel Hunt t
Efq.'or Dr. Ralph Lott, Cranberry ; of Isaac Snowden,
at Princeton or if Isaac Snowden, fun. N0.^141 South
Second Jlrtet, Philadelphia.
May IS §bmwftS
New Hat and Hosiery Store.
Jnjl Imported,
In theJhips William Penn and Star, from London, and
now opening by
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
AT his new Hat and Hosiery Store, No. 134,
Market street
An elegant aflortment ot (ilk, eotton and thread |
Stockings
Silk, cotton and thread Gloves
Pantaloons, &c. &c.
Likewise, a handsome aflortment of men's, wo
men's, and children's falhionable Hats, fuitablcfor
the Seafoo.
A considerable quantity of low and middle priced
Hats aflbrted in cases, intended for country ftorea
May 23. taw
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the (ign of the Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on the 15th
day of October next, at 11 o'clock, A. M.
About seven thousand acres of land,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifter's-town and Westminster,
commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road runs through a confidarabie partjof
these lands) the trail begins «bout 17 miles
from Baltimore, within a few hundred yards
of said Reifter's-town, and extends to the dis
tance of about twenty-three miles from Balti
more, and lite on the main falls of Patapfico
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in trails of one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each trail,
some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine grjfs.
ALSO,
A tra£l of seven hundred acres of
land, called Clover Farms, within five miles of
Bladenihurg, esteemed very good for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby, of Bladenfburgh, will shew
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
also,
A trad of land ©f about three hun
dred and thirty acres, within about two miles
and a half of the President's house in the Fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpeit, from which may be fcen the
city of Walhington, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and a part of George-town, and miny miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfon
by, of Bladenfburg, will alfa (hew this land.
A liberal credit will be given for the greatest
part of the purchase money, she terms will
be made known on the day of sale.
May 8 W3lll
t
A FEW BOXES OF
Bologna Sausages,
Of a superior quality, to be Sold at No.
199, South Front-Street.
April 20, ' eolf
TO BE RENTED,
And may be entered upon at any time,
THAT forcibleand wellimproved water works
on Brandywine, three miles from the town
of Wilmington, in the state of Delaware;
CONSISTING OF
A large, convenient Slitting Mill,
In complete order, having several pair of roils
and cutters of every tize.
A large, Stone Merchant Mill,
Having three pair burr Hones, boulting works,
corn kiln and every other necelTary apparatus.
A Saw Mill,
la the bed order, and a pair of timber wiieels.
A Smith!s Shop and Tools.
To'accommodate these works there is a large
commodious stone dwelling house, kitchen and
wash house and a number of dwelling honfes
for workmen, with gardens adjoining ; two large
stone (tables, two stone coal houses, and a coop
er's (hop, with meadow and pasture grounds.
If the tenant chufes he may have the oppor
tunity to purchase a» excellent te«m of five hor
ses, waggon, coal carriages and bed, with a
(lock of coal in the coal houses fufficient to ma
nufacture three hundred tons of iron.—Apply to
RUMFORD Etf ABIJAH DAWES,
No. 7, South Water-street.
Caution.
r T' , HE Public are hereby forewarned against
-L trusting the step-daughter of the Subscrib
er, and her mother, his second wife. Repeated
mifcondwft compels him to forbid any person to
give them credit on his account, as lie will pay
no debts of their contriving after this date.
LUNO BROWN.
Philadelphia, May 16, 1797 18— •Jhjtt
Maurice Moynihan,
No. 81, North Secondflrett,
A few doors above Arch-street,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that lie his
fur wholesale or retail, on the lowed terms, a
general assortment of Queen's Ware, gilt and cut
tumbUrs, plain and flowered quart, pint, half pint,
gill and half gill do. exadl measure», decanters and
wine glades ; gallon, half gallon, quart and pint
bowls, and chi- a in lets and separate ; pocket
bottles: Schuyikill and Jersey country quart and
half gallon bottles ; Dry Goods, 4cc.&c.
N. B. Crates put up with.carc at the (horteft no
,icc - ■ * j t
May 11. dtt
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. u6, South
Front- street,
Hyson
Ilyion Skin ( TEAS
Young Hylon C
Imperial J
April 20. eotf
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufactured as usual,
Ginger and Pepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Bxiton Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
or by the pipe, quarter-calk or gallon—suitable
for exportation or home consumption
For Sale by
John Haworth.
No. 98 south Front street.
May 18 tU4W
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. £fouth Second-street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firll drawn tickets, prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the last day ot
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination and render
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of \Valdington, No.
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets for sale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomen Bridge lotteries, -which will begin
drawing ia the course of the funimer.
The bufmefs of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c-&c. traafa&ed with the
utmost actentisn. *
J one 2 tu&f
A New Work.
PROPOSALS
For printing and publilhing, by fubferiptioo, The
History of Pennsylvania,
IN North-America, from the originalinftitution and
fettlemcnt of that province, under the firftpropri
etor and governor, William Pe*n, in 1681, 'till
after the year 17 42; with
AN INTRODUCTION,
Refpefting the Life of Vv. PENN,
Prior to she grant'of that Province, and the reli
gious Society of the people called Quakers; with the
FIRST RISE of the NEIGHBORING COLONIES,
mere particularly of WEST-NEW-JERSEY, and the
Settlement of the DUTCH and SWEDES on DEL A.
WARE.
To which is added,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SAID PRO
VINCE.
And of the general state, ia which it flouriftied,
principally between the years 1760 and 1770. The
whole including a variety of things, ufeful and in
teresting to be known, refpe&jng that country in early
time, &c. With an appendix.
Written principally between the years i776 t 'and 1780,
By Robert Proud.
" Pulchrum efl btncfactrc reipublica, etiam benedicere
haud abjutdum efl 9 vcl pace vel bcllo darum 'fieri licet.'*
?al. Catalin.
il Scdcum plerique arbitrentvr res bellicas majorcs eje
quam urbanas, mrnuendaeft hate opinio."
Cic. Off.
(Entered according to lava,)
41 WILLIAM PENN, the great legislator of the
Quakers, (in Pennsylvania) had the success of a con
queror, in efhblilhing and defending his colony v a
mong savage tribes, without ever drawing the sword ;
the goodness of the molt benevolent rulers, in trea- j
ting his fubje&s as his own children ; and the tender
ness of an universal father, who opened his arms to
all mankind without difhnltion ot feft or partv. In
his Republic it was not his religious creed, but per
lonal merit, that entitled every member of society to
the prote&ioa and emolument of the State*"
EJfay on Toleration, by Arthur o*Leary.
CONDITIONS.
I. This work will be printed in two o&avo vol
umes, neatly bound and lettered, both in (heep and I
calf, for the choice of the fubferibers; on paper ftmi
lar to that of the conditions, as publijhed in the Subjcrip
tion papers.
11. The head of William Penn, handsomely en
graved, will be prefixed to the firft, and a map or
(ketch of Pennsylvania, and the parts adjacent, to the
second volume.
I'll* The price to fubferibers will be four dollars
and an half in sheep, and five dollars in calfone
dollar to be paid at the time of fubferibing, two dol
lars on the delivery of the firft| volume, and the re
mainder on the delivery of the second.
IV. When one thousand copies are fubferibed
for, the work will be Dut to press and nnifhed with
all convenient expedition.
Subscriptions will be received by Zachaiiah Poul
fon, jun. Printer, No. 80, Chefuut-ftreet, and at the
Philadelphia Library in Fifth-ftreet ; by lfaac Col
lins. Printer, and Joseph James, Merchant, New-
York; by John P. Pleafantsand George W. Field,
Merchants. Baltimore; and by other persons both
in town and country*
February 18. tu&f
GOLD AND SUPER
Bullion.
THE highest price in ready mouty will be gi
ven for gold or silver bullion, old gold or
silver, or gold dust, at No. 29, North Seventh
llrcet.
April 20 2aw6w
This Day is published,
By THOMAS DOBS ON,
At the Stone House, No. 41 foutHSecoud-ftreet,
Price 37 I-» cents,
Iwo Lectures on Combujlion.
QUpplementary to a course of Ledures onCHE-
O MISTRY ; containing an Examination of Dr.
Prieltley's Confederations on the DoSrine of Phlo
giflon, and the rccompofition of Water,
By JOHN MACLEAN,
ProftlTor of Mathematics and Natural Philofopfcy
in the College of New-Jprfey.
May 22 mwf3p
To Let,
, Andpojftjfieri given in tint wecit,
A good 3 story Brick House,
With back buiidings—No. 43, Spruce-lirtet.
Apply at No-109 Spmcc-ftrect.
May 16
JOHN CRAIG
HAS jail imported from Rotterdam, via St.
Tho mas, and for sale on rtafonablc terms
by thepackage,
Platillas Royal
Haerlem and German linen»
Rouens
Post and Pro Patria Paper
Wafers
Quills
Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles
(Coffee Bags
He bat also for Sale,
Best Red Clover Seed
Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use ■
Teneiiffe Wine of firft and second Qualiiy
Coffee in Bags and Hogthcada
Jamaica Spirits
Connecticut Turpentine Soap
Window Glass
Two Trunks of bell Patent, Silk and Cottar
Hosiery
April 18. 4*w
Georgetown Bridge Company.
Extrail of an a<sl passed by the Lcgiliatufs
the slate of Maryland on the 29th December,
1791, entitled, " An ail for erefting a bridge
over Potewmac river.
'■ /tnd be it enaßed, that the Aid diredlors or
any two as them lhall and may require any sum
or sums of money in equal proportion from each
and every proprietor, as may from time to time
be necell'ary for carrying on the building of said
bridge; and after giving three months public
notice, it lhall and may be lawful for the dirttt
ors sue for and recover in the nama of the
company such unpaid requisition, with all costs
and charges incidental thereto, and legal interell
thereon from the time the fame should have
been paid: And the neglefl or refufal to pay any
such requisition after public notice (hall have
been given at lcaft for three months in all the
newfpapersherein before enumerated, shall have
the effe<3 to forfeit all preceding payments made
on the (hare or (hares so negle&ed or relufed to
be paid t9 the use and benefit of the company."
The above extract is publithed for the infor
mation of fach of the stockholders as have Wot
complied with the requifitiohs heretofore made
—they are as follow :On the ill November,
1795, jo dollar?, on the loth May, 1796, 40
dollars; an the aoth July, 1796, 40 dollars ; on
the ill September, 1796, 40 dollars, and on the
ift November, 1796, 60 dollars. Caution is
now given that after the expiration of the time
limited for the continuance of this advertise
ment (three months) the law will be carried
into rigid and complete effe<sl against all delin
quents.
By order of the Directors,
WALTER SMITH, Triafurer.
Georgetown, May 1, 1797. iaw3m
Gold and Silver Watches,
OF an excellent quality, and neat fafhionable
Gold Chains, Seals and Keys, Eight Day
Clocks and Time Pieces, Fafliionable Steel and Oilt
Chains, &c. &c. for Sale by
JOHN J. PARRY,
Clock and Watchmaker, No. 38. S. ad ftrret.
£s* Clocks and Watches of all kinds carefully
repaired.
May 19. tuef. &fa. 3W
This Day is Publiflied,
BY MciT. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
other Bookfiellcrs,
rice One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegantly printed on IVove paper, and Hot
prcjfed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with ea*h other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
daffing together their most important provisions,
under the several heads of admiuiftration ; witb
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States.
Dedicated to tha People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copies printed o.t an inferior pa
per, at 3-4ths of a dollar.
February 6 mwf
For Sale,
At the Office of the Gazette of the United
States, No. 119, Chel'nut-ftreet,
The laji Report of the late Secretary
of the Treafiiry'; being a brief history of the-
Itate of financial concerns of the United States.
The Proceedings of the Executive
of the United States refpedlirig the western in
furredlion : Containing many facial and cir
cumltances no where else to be found, jo
cents.
The Letter of Mr. Pickering to
our miniller in France. 37i-acents.
An Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of the United States for the year
'79S-
A few copies of the volume for 1794 may be
had to complete setts.
D'lvernois' account of the Revo
lution in Geneva. 1-3 cents.
April 3. §
Important Public Document.
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale
At the Office of the Editor ofthe Gazette of tbe
United States,
No. no Chefnut-Strect,
[PRICK ONI HOLLAR AND FIFTV CENTS}
A FEW COPIES OF THE
Receipts and Expenditure*
OF THE UNITED STATES,
For the Year &79£« —
Being the Latest Period to which an account
can be made up.
February %l, §.
Spanish Language.
WANTED, a perfan well qualified to trarv
la'e Spani/h papers and documents into tfc
Engiilh language. Sueh a one wlio can produer
unexceptionable recommendations, and is defiroui
of immediate employment, will please to make
application in writing at tie office of the Com.
miffioners for carrying into eff-dl the twcniy-firll
article of the treaty of frieiidfllip, limits and nav;.
gation, between his Catholic majesty and the Unl
red States of America,— during njfice hours, •»
at the efr.eeof PETER LOH&A, Secy.
Philadelphia, Jr.se I. a—3p
' ' ' ' • ' * ' ' ■ «
Valuable Books.
Anew importation,(rom London, uft reccivi. l
and now opening and felling by J. OKVIROD, No.
41, Chefnu^-ftrcet.
March 29. ««3P