cf tijc and Philadelphia JDaily Advertiser
Number 1583.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DR r GOODS.
f'Fouenoon—Edward Fox, No. ,561
x/r j south Front-street,
an "■>") Afternpon—Footman & Co. No. 65
C. South Front-street.
, C Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
m r , J Au«3ioo, No. 73 sou& Front-street.
j Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C 183 High-street.
s INo -"
TA fJ 5 Forenoon—Edward Fox.
ur J a J | Afternoon—John Connelly.
P > Forenoon—Willwra Shannon.
r> J Afternoon—John Connelly.
Satnrday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
For Freight or Charter,
GOOD BR:G
S U K E Y,
Isaac Vredenburg, Master ;
NOW lying at Clifford's whart, and in compleat
order to receive 4 cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain on board, or
John Slyrir.,
No. 81, Arch-ftrcct.
IVHO HAS fOR SALE,
2000 wt.of doubjerefinedSaltpetre
600 Wt. of F F Gun Powder
300 barrels of Herrinsjs
50 bulhels of Timothy Seed
150, cafe- of Claret, firft quality
And a quantity of Sherry Wine,
pt. 3<J. dtf
Savanna sugars.
FOR SALE,
1400 boxes and prime white Havan
na SUGARS,
Oo board the (hip Hamburgh Packet, Silas
Swain, Master, now lying at MarcUs Hook.
For terms, apply to Capt. Swain, on hoard, to
Capt- SAMUEL Smith, in Front, near Wal
nut street, or to
Philip Nicllin, Co.
r .JTjJ-v Who offer the said Ship
Hamburgh Packet
For SALE or CHARTER.
She is jto tons regiflrr, coppered to the bendi,
fails remarkably faft, and tan be ready to re
ceive a cargo in a few days.
SfPt jr. dzw
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing from on hpard the
Brig A.-Yive, William Williami, Master,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale by -
Jehu Hollingfworth & So.
Wilmington, Sept.aj. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
'he brig GAYOSO, are
J-j.f »lfo for Sale or Charter, and
p . now ready to receive a cargo
on hoaril. at Wilmington/ Arp'y »s ahove.
For Savannah,
The faft: failing ship,
SWIFT PACKET,
Patrick Griboin, Mafler,
Now lying oppofiteth: mouth
of Frankford Creek, has handsome accommoda
tions for paflengers, and will fail on or about
the ifi el' o<slob?r.
For freight or inilTge apply to the mafler on
board, orot the fubicrib?rs at Frinkford, 5 i-»
miles from Philadelphia.
Natbro & J. Frazier.
Frankford, Sept. 18. dtiftO.
For HAMBURGH,
'H""HE Copper Bottomed Ship
t- F A V OH IT E, John
Thompson, Mister, now at
wharf, and will be rea
. ily to take in on Monday next,
part of her cargo being engaged
and ready to go on board. The ship is so well
known, that it is needless to describe her. She
is now in compleat order. For Freicht or Pas
sage, please to apply at Mr Jeremi »Warder's
Comptipg House, No. la, North laird street,
or to the Master on bord.
August jo.
For SALE,
On hoard the said Ship, Swedish Iron, afTorted
Hollowarvd Window Glass, Djmyjohns, Wrap
ping Paper for' Sugar Refiners, Rugs of 1 & a
Quality. Please to apply as above.
wf&m4w
FOR SALE, '
BRETAGNES In cases '
German Checksin do.
Cambrick '
Plattillu
Oaoibrios
Gold and silver Watches '
Window Glass 10 by 8
Glass Tumblers in cases
latticed Oil in casks, &c. &c.
George Pen nock^
lot, High-Street.
J"?y $•
jin elegant House. in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and elepant house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rooms
undone dining room—the largcft is 31 feet by
»6—and two are so connected by folding doors
as to make but one. Also, fivt bed rooms, be
sides j in the garret, well finifhed for servants.
There are stables and a coach house, with evry
convenience for a family. Enquire at No 19,
in North Seventh street, or at No. »18, Arch
Street;
Aug. Ij. tawjtf.
Chocolate and Mustard. i
Manufactured as usual,
Ginger and Fepper ground
- Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder 1
London Porter 1
Taunton and Button Ale '
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled, _
or by the pipe, quarter-cask or gallon—suitable J
for exportation or home consumption
For Sale by
John Haworth.
No. 98 south Front llreetj
PHILADELPHIA: THURSDAY EVENING, OCTOBER s , i 79 7.
Advertisement.
On the zothof November next in Alexandria
(being couit day), will be exposed for file one
or more covering Jacks, and several
ones of different ages and sizes ; all descended
' from Royal Gift (an imported Jick from Spain,
upwards of 15 hands high)/out of imported
' Jinnies from Malta, full 14 hands high.
, The terms of sale (or if not fold, of letting
thim for one or more seasons to cover) will
then be made known : the payments qtiay be
made easy to the purchafcr, bond and security
being given for the amotint, with interest.
At the fame time and place, sundry
Horses and Mares will be offered for sale. The
latter having been to the. Jacks, are probably
with foal. -•
JAMES ANDERSON, Manager.
<*mt-Vernon, zcth 1
■ September. 1797. Taw4w
N O T I C E. •
ALL person* indebted to the estate of [ohn
Striker, late of Tinuecum Townlhip,
Buck's County, are rcqwefled to pay off their
refpe<3lve debts ; and those hdving any de
_ mands again ft said eflate, are desired to bring in
1 their accounft, to
JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN, & ) Execu-
MALLET PREV ALT, 5 tors.
Sept. »!!■ lawn*
From Marseilles.
THE CARGO
Of the Swedish barque Guftavus Adolphus, from
Marseilles, confiding of the following articles,
is difchnrging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and fer
sale by the fublcribers
BRANDY, well flavored, of 2, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hogsheads '
Ditto, in cases
Frontigniac Wine, in cases «f 30 bottles
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in baflceti of 6
and la bottles
Capers
Olives
Almonds
Dry Verdigreafe
Writing Paper >
Umbrellas (Silk) of it, 30 and 3s inches
Taffeties
I,ong and short white Kid Gloves f»r Women
Silk'Stockiiigs
Handkerch'efj, in imitation of Madrafs
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Ostrich Feathers
Ribbons
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
Manna in fori*
Cream Tartar.
BENfAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANDREWS.
September ly. eotf
Public notice is hereby given,
To the Freemen of the City and County of
Philadelphia, and the County of Delaware,
THAT a General Ele&ion will be held on
Tuesday theiothdayof O&ober next,
the elcdUon to be opened between the hours of
10 o'c'ock in the forenoon, and I o'clock in af
ternown—when the freemen of the city of Phi
ladelphia are to meet at the State-house, in tke
said city, to eleil
Six representatives for the Taid city in the gen
cral.afftmbly.
Twenty persons for members of common
council.
Four persons for members of the felefl coun
cil, in the room of Francis Gurney, Godfrey
Haga, Henry Pratt, and James Read, whose
time expire*
The freemen of the county of Philadelphia
to eleil
Six reprefentativw for the said c»unty in ge
neral iffembly.
The freemen of thecity and county of Phila
delphia to eleil
Two persons for fhei iff.
One person for county commiflioner.
The freemen of the city and county of Phi
ladelphia, and the county ofDelaware, to eleil
One senator for the (late.
The freemen of the county of Blockley and
Kingfeffmg, are to hold their elcilion at the
State-houie in the city of Philadelphia.
The freemen of the Northern Liberties, are
to hold their eleflion at the Townhoufe, in Se
cond street continued, above Coats's street.
The freemen of the townfhipof Gernaantown,
Roxborough and IJrifh are to hold their elec
tion at the Union school-house, in Germantown
The freemen of the townlhip ot Oxford, By
bery, Lower Dublin and Morcland, are to hold
ther ele£lion in thehoufc late John Barnfley's in
Buffeltown, in the townlhip of Lower Dublin.
And the freemen of the diftrid of South
wark, and the townlhip of Moyamenfing and
Paffyunck, are to hold tlieir eleiftion at the com
missioner's hall, in the tliftridl of Southwark a- ,
forefaid. <
The constables of each ward, dillrifl, &c. are 1
to hold their ele&ions in the different riiftrifls,
to choose their infpedlors and assessors for the 1
ensuing ysar, and give their attendance at the 1
time and refpc&ive places 1
JOHN BAKER, Sheriff.
Sept. 19. «itE
1 he Norfolk iYJail STAGE. i
<
'""P'HIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern, !
1 at the corner ol Second and Arch Street?, in 1
Philadelphia, every TuefJay, Tburfday, and Satur- 1
Jay, at 3 o'clock, iathe irorning ; arrives at Do- 1
ver tfye fitft day, at Snowhill the second day, at 1
Northampton Court House the third day, and on (
the morning of the fourth day the palTengers find
a fafc and txjmforrabie packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton feiry,
every Tuclday, Tburfday and Saturday, and the [
Stage starts from ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wcdnefday and Friday ; 6 putsup at Sno-vv j
Hill thefirft night, at Dover the *d night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles lels than on any fuge route
between those place*.
Too muchcannbt be/aid in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
passenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fey that he ever travelled in a fcage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
Aueuft 11, , dim. eotf.
^ —r. 1 j
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto ditto Claret in cases
Just received, and for Sale by
Lunelle & Leech. t
Aur. 11. aawtf 1
By John Fenno, N 0- 119 Cbejnut Street.
CUSTOM-HOUSE,
1 Philadelphia, Sept. zjd, 1797..
e THE Merchants who at this time prefer hav-
C ing their veflelj and Merchandize entered and
i cleared at Chester or Marcus Hock, —are here
, by notified, That in compliance witlrtheir de
-1 fire, and upon a full tonvi&ion tlmt-the measure
will be mutually beneficial tot'hem and to the
t United States. The colledlor of tKe cuftomshas
1 made acrangements to cfiablifh for some time
: branches of the cuilom-houfe at those places,
r where every accommodation in his power will
be given to the merchants. diw
: TO BE SOLD,
r And immediate pojjejjion given,
A Convenient well finlihcd Brick Tenement,
with a cook house and other out houses, situ
ated in a pleasant part of the borough of Wilming
ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
has forty feet front on Weft-fireet, and extends
through the square to Pafluri'-fireet, on which is
erected a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. jo.
Lately Published,
In .one vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar in boards) fold
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
Chefnut streets,
A Colle&ion of Papers on the fubjeft of
Billious Fevers, in the United
States for a few years part.
Compiled by NOAH WEBSTER, jun.
Containing letters from Dofiors Seaman, Smith,
Buel, J'aylor, Ramsay, Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch
ell.on contagion, Sec. &c.
Sent. it. a
City Commijftoners Office,
• August 29, 1797.
IN puffuance of an Ordinance of the Seled and
Cor.mon Councils, puffed the 2ld day ofMay lad.
PronofaU in writing will be received hy the City
Commiflioners for one month from the ill of Sep*
tember next, for letting to rent on kales for one
year to commence the firft day of January next, the
following public property of the city—
The wharf and landing on Vine Street,
Also on SaflafraK,
Mulberry,,
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Braw Sridge, with
the Scale and Filh Houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as (hall be occupied by any buildings ere«sl
ed for the use of the Collector of the Toils, or b«
neceOary for the toll-gates.)
Ang. 3 3tawim.
LOST,
ON the Paffyunk Road, between the Blue Ball
and the city, a Fowling Piece, with a brass
barrel and silver fight; on the plate of the butt are
the letters " Jamaica, Q_ 99" —and on the barrel
near the lock '• London" and the Tower {lamp.
Whoever will return the 'aid piece to Job* Barnard,
atthefign of the Blue Ball on the Panyunkßoad,
or the office of this Gazette, (hall receive a reward
of Four French Crowns,
Sept. ix. «jt
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an a& of Congress ef the
United States of America, pafled at Phila
delphia, the 18th day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ties on Carriages, for the conveyance of persons,
which lhall be kept by or for any person, for his
or her own use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of paflengers, the several duties and
rates following, to wit ;
For and upon every Coach, dols.
upon every fcl ariot, iz dels,
upon every Post Chariot, 12 dols.
upon every Post Chaise, it dol>.
upon Phaeton,with or without top,
9 dols.
upoji every Coachce, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having pannelwork 2
above, with blinds, glailes or curtains, J
9 dols.
upon f«ur wheeled Carriages, having fra
med posts and topi wkh Heel tarings, 6
dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood-
iron or jacks, 3 doli.
upon Curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dolt,
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top cartages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with lleel or
iron fprinrs, 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, a dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed posts and tops, and reding up
on wooden spars, % dols.
The Colledlors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Diftridfc of Pennsylvania, will attend "
daily, until the 30th day of September for
the purpose of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
Germantown ; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Efq.
in the County of Montgomery ; and at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ;
of which all persons pollefTed of fucfe Carriages are
desired to fake notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors that licences will be grant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the busi
ness of retailing of Wines, in a lcfi> quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for Carrying on the.bufincfs of retailing Spi
rituous in UUs quantities than io gallons, at
the fame time aiM at the fame pi ces, by the offic
ers legally authorised t»y,rant such licences.
, WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeilor of the Revenue of the firft fur*
vey of the DiftriA of Pennfylvartia.
Office of Infpedtion at "> ,
Germantow, nth Sept. J
IMPORTED
111 th<r(hip America, Jame? Ewing, mailer, from
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands
White Platilla*
Ticklenbnrgs
Coarse Linens
Tapes
Looiurg "> Jn
Glals 1 umblers 3
FOR SALE BY
George Pen.nock.
Acl laying Duties on Stamped VeJltnn,
Parchment and Paper.
-.
A FF.W copiss of the above-aft maybeha<l at
the Office of the Gazette of tiie U»ited States, No
U9, Cheihut-ftreet. July 191
An UMBRELLA
WAS taken (supposed to have been stolen) or
- Sunday evensng lail, from the house occupied
i Mr. Blunt, No 9, Strawberry-flreet.—lt is agree,
- fitk Umbrella, of the middle flze, with a red mo
rocco top and hooked ivory hea*i.—Conceiving it
e to have I een taken by iome pilfering knave, who,
e actuated by p.-cuniary motives, may endeavor to
s vend the fame, any person or p Prions to who hi the
» W?Umbrella may be offered, are depred to flop it;
? is hoped, will apprehend aod convict the
I thief to justice. The peculiarity of the Umbrella
will, evidently, fuhjeil the ppflefTor to dete<slior> ;
therefore, whoever apprehends the fame and .deliv
ers it at Mr. Blunt's, from whence it wa6 taken,
or at Mr. Fen no's office, lhall be handfoinely re
warded. OA. 3,—d*t
~ L OTT;
I ON (he Frankford road, a Can,el's hair Shawl.
| Any person who will return it to the Printer, fball
have a leafonahle reward. Oil. 3, —d.^t
To be Sold,
And immediate pofieflion given,
THAT eltgant feat,called BLOO.MaBUU.vVhc
residence of the hteJOHN Coi, Efq with a-
I bout to acres of Land, fituste on the Delaware; ex
tending from the mouth of Affanpickcreek, to Tren
ton ferry. The maufion house it a handfoiue well
conftrufled brick building, 50 bf 40 feet, contain
ing four room* on each floor, with excellent cellars,
and a two flory brick kitchen. Among the out
buildings are a flone coach houfc and (tables, fuf
ficient t« contain fix carriages and ten horses, and
a (lone cow house, upwards of 100 feet in length.
/There is also a Hone farm house with corn cnbs,
waggon house, &c. &c. The whole of the prerui
fes proposed to be fold with this feat, from their situ
ation and improvements, are such as to be worthy
the attention of any gcatleman wishing to retire,
from the city. There are also about ij acres ad
joining the above, which will be d-vided so as to
accommodate the pirrchafers. Alfe, 100 acres ad
joining the town lots on the eafl fide of the street
leading from Trenton to Lamberton, which will
be fold together Or in let", as may best suit the pur
chaser, and 130 acres of woodland, two miles from
the above land, which will also be divided if re
quired. The terms of payment will be made easy,
and an indisputable title given. For further parti
culars enquire of Mrs. Cox, No. 144, South Fourth
street, Philadelphia, John S'evens, Efq Hoboc
ken, Mathias Barton, Esq. of Lancafler, or the
fubferiber at Trenton.
MASKELL EWING.
Trenton, Sept. 15, 1797.
Sept. 30. 1 dtf.
Sundry Lots
IN the following Squares in the City of Washing
ton will be exposed to Public Sal*, by the fub
fcribcrs, on the second Monday in OAober next,
at the Little Hotel, in the said City, to com
mence at to o'clock :
Square No. 31, 4*, 4J. 44, 47. 48, 49. JO. SJ.
66, 67,68, 69, 70, 73,74,75, 76, 77, 78, 79,101,
IO», 105,118,119, *30,141,64,56, 84,104, 87,
88, 89, 104, l»4. i»J, i»o, 61, 166, 80, 103,
square eaflof square 87,fquarefouth of square 104,
square north of fqiiare 81, square east of square 88,
square north of square 128.
These Lots are advantageoufiy situated in the
neighborhood of the President's Square, and deem
ed equal in value to any in the city, and will be
peremptorily fold; clear and valid titles will be
made to the putchafer, on receipt of the purchase
money. Terms of sale, are, good notes, negotia
ble at the Bank of Columbia, one fourth part in
one month, one other fourth in three months, one
other fourth in five month', and the remaining one
fourth in fevenmonths.
WILLIAM DEAKINS, jun.
UR.AH FOR*EST.
Sept. 11. dts
Bank of North America,
September Sib, 1797*
ON Monday next the Notice* for all Notes or
Bills payable at this E:uik,which fall due en that
r. id the en 6 days, will be served cn the Pay
ers : And the like Notices on every Monday, till
rhe further orders of the Diredors.—Perfons wish
ing to depsiit Notes or Dills for Colle&ion, which
ate to fall due within the. wtek, ir.u.l ttemfulves
undertake to give notice to the Payer*. dtf
At the Federal Blast Furnace,
In Carvel—for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
M t L LS.
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THEIR futtriority coifjls being free from
biles and honey-combed places, \vhief.i tire com
monly found in rollers cafl in sand, or clay
moulds. Theft patent rollers are ccijl in iron
moulds, previoujly heated, and will be found JO
be more dtnj'e, Jolid and durable than any rollers
heretofore "fed. Another important advantage
they t have over others, is, that tlx necks require
no turning, but are immedaitely ft for use, and .
from their accuracy, run with less friiiiun, and
require less water to mate them perform their
work. 'I bey may be had by application to the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Good--
win, or of .Mejfrs. Thatcher and Hay ward.
80/hn,. Aug. 31 ,
Sept. 19. §(t.
MrT - LAT L~ SO N.~
WITH an intention to render feryicc, and unde
ceive those Performers, who during his absence Mr.
Jaymond has thought proper to engage, thinks it
would be wrong in him not to inform those that
are engaged, that it is withou his approbation, and
that he will not be in any way answerable for r
Jaymond's engagement*.
PHILIPPE LAILSON.
Sept. 15, 1797 6t.
THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREENLEAF)
HEREBY give notice, that they havedil'pofed
of the property assigned to them for the feeuring
the payment of the note«, acceptances, .and en
doil?niepts given by Edward Fox, for the ufc
oftheftiid James Greenleaf; and the holders of
such notes, acceptances, and endoriements, are
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will fsttle
with them for the amount of their refpedtive
claims, both principal and intpkest, as
any time before the icth day of Oiftober next;
after which <iav, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the term. of align
ment.
Applications to be made at south-east corner
of Dock and Second ilreets (the Dock-street
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
clock every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tho. IV. Francis,
John Miller, Jun.
John AJhley,
Jacob Baler.
Philade'phia, Anguft iS, 179.7. d
ihomas Herman Leufff.r.
r North Fifth ftrect, corner cf North alley, No.
jf HAS FOR SALE,
TpXCELI.KN f rod Bourdeaux Wiue in cases and
l ~ boxes, fix years old
it W Gi;aves Wine in calk*
>, TicUlenlnirjTs
o RufEa'Sail Clcths
e Ravens Duck
; Bags Linen
e Hcffians {
■a Diaper and Table Cloth
; Empty frags
Common German Olorh
i, An aflortmenr of black coloured Ribbon#
- F.-r<? German Laces
About twelve tons Kufia dean Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in fmalllroxes, for family use
' Window Glass 29. —2axv
"i'HJS DAY WAS PUBLISHED, "*
- Ami f«r sale by 7HSMAS DOBSON, at the
Stone House, No. 41, soutH Second •street,
EVENINGS at rfOME;
; OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Confining of a variety of Mifcellaneout Pieces for
the inftruilion and aimifement of YOUNG PER
SON-S—Six Volumeshandforii-ly prifltedand bcund
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these pieces are
' such, that the book needs only to be known to be
universally efleemed one of the mod valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the hand's of your.g
persons,
" Oelightful talk to rear the tender thought,
' 1 o teiqh the young idea how tu (hoot.
To pour t>.«-freih inllruflion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
Thegantrsus purpose in the glowing breast."
Thomson.
Augutt 14. niwf 4 w
THIS D ->X IS PUBLISHED,
By TH OMAS J) OJSS 0 2V, at the Stone Hoc fa,
No. 41, south Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Young Ladies, on improving and ift
terefting fubje£U.
Tranflatfd from t»e Dutch of Madame dt Comhn
with alterations and improvements,
Printed m fine paper, and neatly bound,
Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modem Romances, painting
tales ef extraordinary distress, or of desperate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little bonk comes forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, riot ex
ceeding the beunds of real life, the proper, beeauf*
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
cbarafier is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and presents example* of real and attainable excel
lence.
The publisher was fomuch pleafedwith the pero
fal, that he was persuaded he (hould do a pleafin£
service to the communicy by fending it in to circu
lation. August 24 —mw4w
To Majlers and Pilots bringing up VejjcU
from Foreign Porti to this City.
WHereas sundry infringements have lately been
made on the laws of this date for the pre
venting pellilential or infe&ious diseases, either
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to pub'.ifh the following ex
tracts from the laws of aid April, 1794, 7th and
Bth fed ion >.
» HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794.
Extract of an aSfor fccuring the (ity and port
of Philadelphia frotrf the introduSion of pesti
lential and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And be it further enatfted, that every
mailer or captain of any (hip or veflel coming from
Tea (vcfi'cls ailually employed !n the loading trade
excepted) and bound to any port or place within
the jurifdiAion of Pennfylvania,(ha'l eaiife hislhip
or veiTel to be brought to anchor,or otherwise flay
ed in the lire am of the river Delaware, oppefiu to
the Health-Office on State-Wand aforefaid, and
there to remain until he (hall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of heal h from the Resident Phy
sician. And it, previeufly to obtaining such certi
ficate or hill of health, any mailer or captain (hall
fuffer his (hip or veflel to approach nearer than the
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
(hall land, cause or fuffer to be landed, or brought
on (hore, at any plscc or port within this Corn
mbnwcalth, or at any other purt or place, with the
intent ol being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any person or persons, or any roods, wares or mer
chandize, or, if after receiving such bill of health
o.- certificate, he (hall ne,eh ct or r fufe to deliver
the fanv to the Health-Officer, such matter or cap
tain (hall forfeit and p.-.y, for each and every such
offence, thefumof nvx hundred dollars.
And the captain or matter of every (hip or ves
sel shall fend a fafe and commodious boat to bring
the physician on board, and lhall in like manner
tonv. y him back to the H«alth-Offiie, after he has
concluded his official examination ; And while he
is making such examination, or in rase any subse
quent examinatiM by the Health Officer or Con
futing I'hyiician, agreeably to the d regions of
thi- a<ft, the mailer or captain (hallexpole or caule
to be exposed to thefeai ch of the Rcfident Physi
cian, or of rtie Health Officer and Cdnfulting PhyC-*
cian the cafe may be) each and every part of the
(hip or veflel, and (hall prcfe.it to hi, view each
and every person cr persons on board thereof, and
and shall also true and fatisfaislory answers make
to all such questions as the Resident Physician, &c.
at the time of examination (hall alk relative to th*
health of any port or place from which the (hip or
velfel failed, or has futce touched at—the number
of persons on board when the (hip or veflel entered
on her voyage—the number of persons that have
fmcc been landed or taken on board; and when
and whererefpeilively—what perform on board—
s they have been during the voyage, or (hall, at
the time of examination, he infedled with any pes
tilential or contagious disease—and what is the pra
fent (late and condition of the persons on board
with refpeit to their health or diseases. And if
any matter or captain (hail refufe to expose as afore
aid, to the fearch'of any of the officers aforelaid,
n if he shall conceal any Jtci person, or in any other mam*
WW deceive the proper officers aforefaid in h's anfcvers,
uch captain or matter,for every such offence, fliall
forfeit and pay the fusil of five hundred dol
lars.
Sect. 8. And if any person or persons whatso
ever (the Resident Physician, itc. excepted) (hall
go on board any veflel, before the matter thereof
has received a certificate of hsal h in the manner
directed, every person so offuiding, (hall pay th*
um of one hundred dollars.
IT being abfclutely neccffary that the foregoing
feflions (hould bo puniSlually complied with, the
fubferiber, 111 compliance with his duty, mutt ex
ail a rigcroHs obf.rvance of the lame, or clfe be
under wia necessity of putrtug the laws in force.
\Y M. ALI.H N, Health. (jjicor of the
Uitrt »f / hiltdelpbia.
July 14. stjvy
rvotOME xiiPHILADELPHIA, S'
THURSDAY EVENING, October 5. Tim ,
Vdr the Gazette of the United Statis.
October 2d, 1797 A ] e fs
To Mr. BENJAMIN WYNKOOP.\ the
A POWERFUL desire of afcertainin|j fy n
the origin and true cause of the Fever, whicrn p' cr
still unfortunately prevails in Philadelphia, f erl
induces me to address you again on the in- ,knc
terefting fubjeft, and to submit the follow- C( 1
ing particulars to your consideration, thro* <
a public channel, that the public may judge- w h
whose arguments and fadls are moll concln- An
five. the
With refpeft tp febrile contagion, it is p al
proper to observe, that all the irioft accurate p re
and best informed physicians agree that it h D (
never adls but when it is near to the source thi:
from whence it arises ; that i 3, eifher near to w ],
the bodies of men from which it immediate- anc
ly issues, or nearto some fubftauces which, nu!
having bem near to the bodies of men, are en t
imbued with the effluvia, and in which sub- <
fiances these effluvia are sometimes retained Q,
in an iflive state for a very long time. cd
The substances thus imbued with an aftive CO i
and cofitngious matter may be called somites, 0 f
and it appears probable and is confouant to
observation, that febrile contagion, as it arises. . CO i
from somites, is more powerful, than when ths
it arife3 from the human bo- ig
dy.—" The effluvia (fays the celebrated we
Cullen) which rises from marfties or moist fl u
ground, afted upon by heat, is universally. l o |
the cause of intermitting and remitting or an
bilious fevers." So many observations have j 3
been made with refpeft to this, in so many w j
different regions of the earth, as leare no on
doubt of the truth of this observation. w ]
The finiilarity of the climate, season and f lc
fpil in, the different countries in which inter- h«
milting, remitting and bilious fevers (for £
they are all of the fame kind, differing on\y ■ hi
in degree) arise and become epideitiic, and fh
the similarity of the diseases, though arising p,
in different regions, concur in proving, that O
there is one common cause of these fevers in
aH their varieties, and that this cause is the
effluvia of putrid vegetable substances, for |
of these the foil of niarlhy ground is chiefly
composed. f c
And human effluvia are universally the j al
cause of all continued fevers of a nervous Or f e
putrid kind, only varied in their lymptoms,' m
by the circumstances of climate, season, tem- ; r
perature of the air, condition of the foil, J
mode of living and Constitution of the patient f,
concurring with the effluvia and modifying tl
their power. o
It has now' been rendered probable thnt Q
the effluvia of marshes or putrid vegetable ,
substances are the cause of the intermitting <J
fever in all variety—and that effluvia from f t
human bodies are the sole cause of thg con- tj
tinued fever in all its variety. g
The fevers produced by the effluvia of h
marshes, or moist ground, adled upon by
heat, are often epidemic, and sometimes ma- c
lignant ; but there is no maxim in experi- r ,
mental philosophy, no problem in geometry, (
better established, than that they are never e
contagious in any situation, notwithftand- t
ing what has been affertrd.by fuperficial ob- f
servers to the contrary : Whereas those pro- t
dcced by human effluvia are always more or v
less contagious in confined or impure and r
warm air. J <
That fevers arising frpm human effluvia c
are generally attended in the beginning with r
inflammatory symptoms in cold climates, ap* ! t
pears evident from Dr. Cullen's observations ,
relative to their symptoms in Scotland ; j c
hence he denominates the disease Synochus, 1 (
1. e. a fever beginning like inflammatory, t
and ending like a putrid fever. And that I
the inflammatory symptoms are still higher ,
and more evident when the disease-attacks J
persons of vigdrous constitutions, with an ,
inflammatory diathesis, in a hot dry season, j
is not only agreeable to reason, but
been often observed and recorded by differ- \
ent authors. 1
That the yejjpw fever is propagated by ,
contagion, that is from the effluvia of the
diseased conveyed a from its ]
source, through the medium of the air, and ,
received into a found body by the lungs, <
flomach, and perhaps the pores of the skin,
is a fadl too notorious to admit of difpute—
and that the Coutagion by which it is pro
pagated is derived from living human bodies
under particular circumstances, I think the
following fails, extrafled ffom.different au
thors, fufficiently establish.
" The firft (hip which arrived towards
the latter end of this year (1758) from the
fleet in N. America, was the Loeftcffe. On
the 18 th of October, 18 of her men were
sent to the hospital, and 13 more on the a ift
•of the fame month. The scurvy', the flux,
Vjnd fevers were reported to be the prevaih'ng
diseases in that (hip,.
" The company of the Loeftoffe were in
perfeft health the 8 months they were in
America, and until a few days before their
departure from Quebec. At that time 6
recovered marines came on board from Point
Levy hospital, -ar.d in 48 hours afterwards,
among her company of 200 people, were
seized with fevers and fluxes.
« In some, the sickness began with a
flux, in others with a fever; but the flux
was generally moderate and gentle. The
fever continued commonly from 5 to 10
days ; ■ two patients were distressed with it
for a'whole month. When the firft attack
was from the fever, a supervening flux
Droved faltitary ; but where the contagion
made its ftvft appearance with a flux, the
aceeffion of the fever carried off the patient.
«' This (hip was 27 days in her passage
to England from Quebec, and during that
time fix of "her men died.
« One of the crew, a Spaniard, having
relapsed, turned yellow on the 6th day of
the fever. His chief cpmplamt at this
♦i me was an univerfnl unealinefs over his
•whole body, his head alpne being ur.aj.eft
ed He earnestly intreated to be bied ; .
t'nougli his pulse wis low T con fen ted to (pa
his repeated felicitations, and permitted a rib
small quantity to be taken from His arm. rule
The mass of this blood was exceedingly in I
viscid and fizv ; and after Sanding some oth
time, the gnimous concretion became co- wa
wred with a yellow gluten, hslf an inch in cor
thickness, impenetrable to the finger, tin- of
less cut by the nail ; the feWim being at '
the fame time of the confidence of thin the
syrup, and of a deep yellow colour. A nui
person, prompted by curiosity, tailed the fei:
I serum and found it bitter. Another, not on<
! knowing it to be the serum of blood, judg- ftri
cd it to be a competition of foot. ha;
11 This fever was plainly the fame as that bel
which was brought lrft year from North ric
America, and commonly by us denominated
the Tel'ow Fever. It was oftener aceom- an
panied with a flux than the fever of the we
preceding year ; and of the fickse«t to the { in
hospital, a greater proportion died from thi
this (hip than from any other ; for of 34 att
which were admitted, some with the flux, ne.
and others with the scurvy, but the greatest |
number with the fever, we loft nine pati- j fa<
ents. ' j th
" In November, after the conquest of | L
Quebec, the North American fleet return-* M
cd to England, with several of the (hips' j tie
in perfeft health ; while the crews on
of others were afflidled with an a&ive and ; ttt
pj|verful contagion. . The mod vigorous :fo
.contagion was in the Dublin and Neptune;
the former had buried in their passage home
19 men, and on her arrival at Spithead 96
were reported, to the hospital in fevers, -
fluxes and the scurvy. The Neptune had
loft 160 of her complement in a few months,
and on her arrival her sick lift contained
133 sick. The surgeon had been seized
with the yellow fever, but had recovered :
one of his mates had a fifth relapse into it,
when at Spithead. Some attributed their
sickness to the French prisoners whom they
had received on board ; others to the New
England volunteer*, wh« were very sickly ;
but the fever was introduced into several
(hips by the marines from the hospital at
Point Levi."*
Observations on the phenomena produced
1 by this contagion, as they were written '
at different limes, in the wards of the n
" | hospital, by the experienced Lind.
' \ " 20th November. The crifi* of this '
fever happens at no fixed period, nor on
: \ any certain day that can be foretold. A
r few had spots ; on some they were petechial, c
> most of whom are well ; as also many who 1
- in the course of the dfeafe hecame yellow. r
1 This yellowness is at present much more 1
* frequent than vhe spots. The tindlure over I
J the (kin is universal, of a deep yellow tinge, 1
often painful, and disagreeable to the fight. '
1 One Afhley hjs relapsed three times, and
e 'in each relapse there appeared this jaun
, dice. The blood taken from a marine re
n fembles that of the Spaniard before men
- tioned, is viscid and glutinous ; both the
gluten and the serum, as well at the patient, !
f being yellow.
Y " Three men from the Cambridge, re
ceived into the hospital December 14th,
i- report, that the company on board the
U Cambridge, confiftiag of 650 men, had
' r enjoyed a good state of health for a long
time past, until they, with some of their
(hipmates, were ordered on board the Nep
>- tunc to prepare that (hip for the dock,
ir which was then in diftref6 for want of men,
mod of her people being at the hospital.
' Of those three men, one became spotted
is on the sth day and died, and another nar
h rowly escaped with life ; and I have reason
' to believe, that their other (hipmatei who
13 were employed in the Neptune, communi
-! cated the distemper to the Cambridge, as
B>l 8 > 1 (he soon after sent several with the fever to
ft the hospital."
at! «« When those men from the Cambridge,
tT one of the moil healthy (hips then in the
18 fleet, became infefled, the contagion by
which they \»cre infe£ted, did not proceed
n > jrom any person JUL in the Neptune, (f»r
a.3 U pon the firft appearance of any man being
*- there taken ill, he was immediately sent to
the hospital), but from the infection retsin
>y ed in the (hip."f
it "It was a'#j at this time very remarka
ts ble, that no seamen but those who had been
Td on board the American (hips, were seized in
[•» this hospital with that fever, notwithftand
■l ing their frequent intercourse."
- M The praftice of cleanliness, and the be
nefit of the fre(heft air, did not avail to re
ies move this contagion ; which continued till
he the (hips were, taken into dock ;md properly
u * purified by fire and fnoke —After this ope
ration the ship and crew became perfe&ly
ds healthy—This was the cafe likewise with all
the N. American vessels."
3n (Perhaps the severe frofts which set in a
;re bout this time had some (hare in this faluta
!ft ry effect.)
ix, «« On board mod of the other (hips of
n g war we were able to trace out the importa
tion of the contagion, from guard (hips,
in from jails, unseasoned landfir.en, contam'inat
in { d pcrfons or ships."£
en' Sometimes only one man in a (hip may
6 be seized with a petechial or yellow fever,
;n * and all the reft continue tfnaffe&ed. The
ds, Magnanime was 7 weeks at sea in 1760,
ire w ith 700 men. Upon her return to port
only y were sick—one of them with a fpot
a ted fever, of which he died—" Another
ux person was sent from the Raven (loop with
he the yellow fever, of which he also died, and
1 0 yet no pcrfons on either of these (hips were
infe&ed."
ck Sir John Pringle relates, that of 23 per
il* sons who wfcre employed in refitting the old
on barracks in which some sick had lain, 1 7 di
he ed of the fever occasioned by the infe£tion.s
nt. _____ ——;
ge # Lind on the bejl method of preferring the
lat health of f amen. Edition of 1762.
f Lind, page 206.
ng j Lind on fevers and infcßion, p. 209.
of By iif ciion is meant the original effluvia
bis which occefions a fever —by contagion the efiu
his via from a person in a fever, which occajtcns a
ft- fever diflingafhed by the fame rjfemblage of
I ; fymplomj.
(page 27th of his difrafes of the army.) fore
"Ha?nee it appears that contagion is more vi- j heat
rulent Stt one time than another, as well-as
in some lituations and circumstances than in j
others—and the danger mortality willal- reft
ways he in proportion to the drength of the ing
contagious effluvia, provided the disposition feui
of the body be favourable to its operation, and
" In the month of April, 3 months afte.- te
the yellow fever- had entirely ceased, two con
nurses belonging to the fame chamber were fide
seized with fsvers, and both became yellow a d
one died, the other recovered. From a tail
drict examination it was found that they sou
had concealed fomt shirts and other clothes tha
belonging to the infefted men from Ame- . mu
riea." I 1
" There died in 8 months only 5 out of | fuf
an hutidted'attitidants at the hospital, that the
were co'ndsntly emploVed during that time pie
in various offices about the sick."* Why th:
' then is it thought so ektraordiiiary that the cip
attendants escape the disease at the hospital yo
near Schuylkill ? mi
j In a few days I propose communicating yo
' fafta which corroborate those extracted from ful
' the works of the experienced and observing tat
I Lind, "from the observations qf Doitors ; TJ
, Monroe, Chidiolm and Brier, which will set- j da
i tie the quedion to the conviction of every of
' one whose objedl is truth. In the mean :co
time, accept of the bed wishes for your per-; po
forval welfare, of your humble servant, tn
WILLIAM CURRIE. ex
Set Lind on preferring
Ry this day's Mail. %
'F R~A N~c E.
th
COUNCIL OF FIFE HUNDRED. C£
23 Meffidor, Augud 10. so
The following mefTage was received from tl
the Executive Direftory : le
In answer tip the refoluticn of the Council, 1
the march of the troops with- c ]
in the Conditutional limits. if
Citizens Representatives, o
I " The Executive Direftory delayed re- c
( plying to your mefTage of the 17th of this a
, month, relative to the marching orders given g
to of ChnfTeurs which were c
8 to pass by Ferte Alars in the expectation p
* that the report of the committee of Infpec 7 t
tors, upon which the mefTage had been a- o
dopted, would be printed. It is net yet d
j printed ; but the DireCtory, who in the c
mean time have been collecting the docu- ;
~ ments they were delirous of procuring res- c
pedting the route of these troops, consider a
it their duty to transmit to you such infor- j
' mation as has reached them. f
".Citizen commifTary of war, t
has made the following declaration upon this ,
fubjeft : ;
" Citizen Lefage, commifTary of war for 1
the army of the Sambre and Meufe, char- j
ged with the police of the division of Chaf- 1
' feura commanded by gen. Richepaufe, cer- ,
tifies, that after the said general had given 1
, to him at Durenne, the itinerary of the
' c route which this division was to observe in
j going to Chartres (an itinerary which was
entirely written by gen. Richepaufe, but
•J. not signed by him) he received at Aix-la-
Chapelle, the order of proceeding in that
dedination, and preparing before hand, at
1' the places pointed out, the neceflary provi
j' fian» and quarters for the four regiments
j which composed that diviGon, but which
r _ were only to arrive in fticceffion at these red
ing places ; that without examining the iti
lo nerary which had been given to him, or
j_ knowing that the Ferte Alars was within
a3 the conditutional limits of Paris, he cxpe
,o dited the order for the route, in consequence
of which the troops were to march—that
he followed the fame route to Rheims—that,
le * being there afTured that the letters he has
written to Charvelle, with directions to the
municipalities of the places through which
Br the troops were to pass, had been duly re
ceived, and having no further precautions to
t p take, as'the municipal adminidrations were
n _ charged with quartering and providing for
the troops, he yielded to the desire of fee
a_ ing his family who reside at Chartres, and
EU left rtie route of the division to take the
■ n fhorttrfctie by SoiflToni. He farther certi
fits, that neither general Richepaufe, -ior
aoy other Staff officer, gave him any other
)e _ marching order than the above, the itine
re - raT 7 °f which war transmitted to him at Du
'-jj renne ; that, during the course of th^march
1 he did not hear a y one of the troops speak
)e _ of their dedination ; that he only heard at
t ] Bonn and Durenne, persons who did not be
ajj long to the army, fay that the division was
to embark at Bred.
a _ 1 " General Richepaufe states, on his part,
ta _ that he received an order from gen. Hoche,
dated Cologne, the 13th Meffidor, in the
0 f following terms : '
t " General Richepaufe, commanding the
division of liorfe Chasseurs, is hereby order
al' ed to proceed, with the four regiments un
der his command, to Bred, by the way of
Chartres and Alencon. .
er Y (Signed) "HOCHE."
" General Ricliepaufe has besides made
the following declaration, which he fubferi
ort bed before the DireCtory on the 23d of
ot _ Thermidor
l, er " I.certify, that it was in consequence of
; t j, the order of the general in chief, Hoche,
ID( j dated the 13th Meffidor, directing me to
ere proceed with the four regiments under my
command to Bred, by the way of Chartres
er _ and Alencon, that I traced the route by
.jj which the fird division I commanded was to
proceed to Chartres that I was totally
,r ignorant of the exidence of any law which
required that the troops fhottld not come\
the within 12 leagues of Paris ; that I even
was inclined to have made them pass thro'
Paris : and that the difficulty of maintain
ing order among troops quartered in a large
via city, was the only reason determined me
Hu- not to adopt that route :—that my intenti
-1 a on was evidently pure j for if it had not, 1
of would not have o-.tiered a commifTary of war
to preceded me, who wa3 fix days be-
fore ttie ran of the troops, which was the | fear
head of the column Commanded by mc. i dirt
(Signed) « RICHEPAUSE. \ the
" Such is the informatioiv which the di- tro(
reCtory has procured respecting the march- whi
ing order given to four regiments of Chaf- is 1
fetlrs drawn from the army of the Sambre law
and Meufe, and which were to pass by Fer- the
te Alai3 to Bred. While the directory ! am
confine their answer to the point, they con- XI
fider it neceflary to direCt your attention to to
a statement which appears to have been con- it 1
tainedin the report on which your mefTage was tor
founded. All the journals agree in dating | wit
that you were informed that arms and am* pei
munition had recently been diftribiitrcd at ( T1
j Chartres to 500 ruffians for the -purpose of j wii
j suppressing or of threatening the freedom of j no'
the legislative body. 1 This datement is com- ins
pletely disproved by the municipality of fen
that place : the proces-verbal of the muni- i th<
cipality has been addressed to you ; so that ■ th
you mull already be convinced that the ene- ; T1
mies of the country have led the members of ; tit
your committee into an error upon this! ce;
fubjeCt. We now Some, citizens reprefen-1 mi
' tatives, to the second part of yonr mefTage. J ot
| The executive direCtory did not, till the pr
i day before yederday, receive the originals so
of the addresses of the defenders of the
i country from the different divilions that com
-1 pose the army ps Italy. They were all des
tined for the executive directory, with the 1 pt
' exception of two only ; and these were ad- 1 ct
ireffed to the defenders of the country com- j fh
pofmg the other armies. Though the mean- 1 t<
j ing and sense of the word " deliberer" (to t
i deliberate) has not been so accurately defin- ec
ed as to be clearly applied to the aft by it
which, after having cxpreffed their fears and fr
their hopes to the executive dire&pry and t!
their brethren in arms, the defenders of the Y
country have only 1 dated the wishes they had h
formed, and the fentimeuts that animated ,tl
I them, the executive directory have neverthe- h
less resolved to prevent' its circulation— a
, They have also written to the- general in p
- chief, deploring the circumftanees whickjud ; il
ifiduced the brave republican foldirrs ;o j t
commit those aCls which might be coniider '
- ed irregular, and inviting them ca' rul'v
s avoid every thing which may in th '
II grcc tend to the infraftion or »!,< <at
e constitution. The diref'.yry ha: not ;op
n ped there ; thev have thought it their duty
to go back to the cauf , and to point th >n
1- out, perfuadtd that you will, in your vn't- {
dom, adopt such measures es fnall ®ake 1 ltm 1
ie cease to exiff. The cause of these proceed- t
1- ings, on the part of the defenders of the
country, is to be attributed to the gen >al
!r alarm and disquietude whith for some months <
r_ part, having taken poffeflion of all the per- I
ions, has the profound tranquilli- I
r, ty that reigned, and the general confidence
is which every where prevailed. It is to be t
attributed to the defalcation in the revenue, 1
or which leaves all parts of the adminrdration j
r- in the moll deplorable situation, and de-
I- prives, often, of their pay and their fubfift
r- ence, the men who, for years past, have shed
tn their blood, and fecrificed their health to
he serve _the republic. It is to be attributed
in to the persecution and affaffiiiation of the
as purchasers of national property, of the pub- j 1
ut lie functionaries, of the defenders of the j
a- country —in ftiort - , of all those «vho have
at dared to (hew themselves the friends of the
at republic. It is to be attributed to the want !
of firmnefs and vigour in the punilhment of
its criminals, and in the partiality of the public
ch tribunals—lt is to be attributed to the info
d- lence of the emigrants and the refractory
ti- pritfts, who, recalled, and openly favoured,
or appear ever/ where, keep alive the flame cf
tin discord, and inspire a contempt of the laws, j
>e- It is to be ascribed to the multitude of jour?
ice nals with which the armies, like the in ten- .
tat or, are inundated—Journals which threaten j
at, death to the supporters of liberty, which
ias villify all the republican inditutions, which j
he openly and fhamefully dtfire the return
ch of royalty, and all .the oppressive and
re- vexatious institutions, which equally tor
to ment and humiliate the merchant, the ar- ;
:re tifati and the labourer, and even the rich pro- [
for prietor who it untitled. It is to be found
ee- in the irttered, always ill-dissembled, and
nd frequently openly manifefted, which the
he enemies ef their cot*.try take in the glery
rti- the prosperity of the Englilh govern- I
ior ment and the Audrian court, while they en- !
her dcavor, on the contrary, to dim' ;ifh t'ie
ne- true ren'iwn of our warriors, and ft>cak v it] i
)u- an ill difgnifed contempt of tVe high de; iny !
rch held out to France, aud of the eminent de
grec of glory and of happincls which flic was 1
at about to reach. It is owing to the blame
be- which has been thrown upon the mod glori
vas ous and ufeful confequeuces of the victories
of our defenders —to the, plan, openly de
»rt, clared, of calumniating and ruining the re
he, putasjon of our republican generals, and
the particularly those who, to glory of the
most brilliant triumphs and the mod fkilftil
the campaigns, have added, the one in the weft
ler- of France, the other in Italy, the immortal
un- honor of a political conduCt, which will pro
r of cure to their phiiofophy and humanity as
much praise as has already been bestowed on
' their military genius. Finally, the cause is
ade to be found in the defpauvt© which all true
cri- citizens, and particularly the defenders of
los their country, are reduced, in feeing at the
sam« moment of its concltifion, and after,
eof they had purthafed ijt with so much blood
:he, and.so many ftifferings, the definitive peace,
: to, solicited by the chiefs of the vanqnifhed co
rny alition, placed at a didance—that peace
tres which a government, the friend of humanity,
by seeks dill with the greatsft. earnestness to
i to conclude. But, all at once reanimating their
ally hopes, and reckoning upon the dissolution
ich Qf the republican gove*iment in confcquence
>me\ of the exhausted ltate of our finances, upon
ven the death or the exile of our braved generals,
iro' and on the dispersion or dedrnftion of our
sin- armies, the fame- coalefed powers have ex
rge hibited aB much tardiness in the progress of
me their uegociations at they at firft tedified ar
nti- dour to ternwnate them. Such, citizens
, t representatives, are the causes which have
war agitated the minds of the soldiers of the re
be- public, and induced them to exprcfj thei
J
, fears and their refoluti'onsj The executive fl
j diredlury repeat, that thcy'lhall do what jfl
, they ought to do, in recommending to the
■ | troops to avoid all irregular proceedings flfl
■ ' which are contrary to that discipline which x
- is the foul of armies, and opposite to the
: law 6 which are the support of At Rate ; but
- they owe to you, in the mean time, a frank
j > and faithful declaration of their sentiments.
- The government (till confidently hopes to
i to save France from the dissolution to which
- it is precipitately hurried, to exftinguifh the
s torches of civil war which are lighted up
g ' with fury, and to protest persons and pro
i* perty from the danger of a new revolution,
it This resolution the directory will purfuc
if with perseverance and with courage, and will
if | not be turned aside by any fears or by any
i- influence. They will not, however, -cpn
)f sent to inspire a falfe security, either in
i- i their fellow-citizens of the interior, or in
it • those who defend the country without.
e- They (hould consider themselves guilty of *
as ; treason towards their country if they con
is ! cealed the atrocious attempts that are unre
n- ; mittingly made to lead us into all the horrors ,
e. \ of a second revolution, by. overthrowing the
ie present government, either by treason or (
ils force.
he (Signed) " CARNOT, President. .
n- " L#\GARDE, Scc'ry.
:f- After it was read Bailly moved that it be
lie ! printed, referred to a fpecia] committee,
d- confiding of seven members, and that it
•n- (honld be communicated by a message to the .
a- ' eouncil ofielders. %
to t L?marque opposed this.-—" The only
n- eomplaint.he said, which your commission of
>y infpedlors is empowered to examine, is the
id faa which was denounced to you relative to
id the violation of the boundary of 12 leagues. *
he You haye acknowledged that this boundary
ad had not been geometrically measured; thus
ed ,the grievance which the echoes of fadtion
le- have so very i:omplaifantly repeated, is done
- away. This indeed, is proved by the re
in port of your pommittee,—Wby then has
■..id : it occupy 1 i f M| with the mnvopurats (if the
to j tri.-op" be.y< d the limits of the cotiftitutional
ier | in ; ?.!t was neivnary to examine many
fftui • wta:h jj'ave notevenbe.cn touched
,/n The. i-rft was to know, if the I i6th
cK- onllitution .did not empower
i i reft the movements of the
ity i,r :id he oiiftitutional boundary?
iCitt The <'' vjicrher the existing circum
vil'-. fta.K v -.'.d permit us to deviate in any
•n : it . ,s ■ i iples, in. order to take in-" ,
ed- to couiiceratiau pretended alarms? I con
the tend that all theie denunciations all these J
•ral coml- ned . stacks, tend only to place the I
iths different authorities at variance, to pro7oke
jer- the civil war, to renew the yefgn of circum
illi- stances and that of government committees,
nee Has it not betn proclaimed from the tribune,
ibe that an alarming division exilled between
me, the members of the direftory? as if the ma- -
tion jority of the directory did not pofTe.fs the
de- power given to it by the conftituti.<r.._ Have
fift- not thofe'Journals who are in the pay qf the
shed king's friends, given ter this majority the
Ito appclation of Triumvirate? And yet, this
ited unprecedented audacity remains iinpuni(li
the !ed —no notice, indeed, has ever beijn taken
>ub- of it. Have not some orators spoken of
the ' attempts against the national representation?
lave Has not the council permitted that article
the of tlte constitution which fays, th«t the
vant ! heads of an accufotion (hall be fpecifically ■
tof ftatrd, to be violated ? Instead of purfuiug ■
iblic the salutary forms of the constitution, we fl
nfo- hear men speak of indulgence, and generofi- V
,ory ty towards the director)', as if the directory , I
red, were subordinate to the council," —[Mur-
ie cf murs.]
aws. j Bailly—"This is,an insulting wrong to J
our-' the lrgiflative body,—President, call the
tcvi- , fpeaktr to order."
aten ! Lamarque —" I observe to my colleagues
hich —[a voice, lam not your colleague.] I ■
hich 1 remind those who are my colleiguts [Mur- J
turn murs.] I move that the president call to or-
and der those who are not my colleagues—
tor- i [Great noise.] 1
• ar-1 Talot—" President, tell the reprefenta
pro- ; tives to silence their cries.—We cannot
jund , hear." _ i j
and A m'ajber of voices insist that Talot (by
the name) i:»ould be called to order—a violent
rlery altercation ensues betw-. en 1 alot„ and the
,-ern- member 1 " ne. him Great agitation pre
y en- v'aiij, ut tranquility is at length reflored.
-he,| i marque—"Explain the phra/e heie
vitl ; emp o)e't~—He said that the legiflativc bo
: or I dy would neither be generous nor indulgent^
tde it would neither reft the law against, nor in
'was ! favour of the direftory."
lame Lamarque continued— "In a report of
rlori- the. I2th Mefiidor, has not the reporter of
oriel* your commifiion of auditors to the treafurv
' de- accused the general of the army of Italy of
ie re- ordering and regulating payments himfelf, '
and and of opposing .the destination of the funds
f the regulated by the ccmmiffary of the treafu
iilftil ry? Why (hould the laurels of that army
weft which has by its conqucfts obtained the fup
orial plies of which it flood in need, be thus tarn
pro- idled? the fame repoitcralfo accused thegeii.
ty as of and Meufe,of having levied a con
ed on • tribution of three millions and a half; which
jfe is sum, he said, was pieced in the hands of the
'true etat major, and in the ' Co'iffcs of the recei
■rs of vers, xiut of which sum General Hoc Tie hnd
t the ;patd many difcrer.t aceotmts." Jlcin.ar.quj
after then moved t'ue previous ijuefticn, lclative
)!ood to, the motion for reti ring the mefiage to a
eace, committee.
d co- Vaublatic—" I fliould not have prefent
liace ed myielf to reply without preparation, to
nity, a written speech, w*ere I not persuaded
■fs to -that I should be received with indulgence
their by my colleagues, and were I not addressing
ution men, convinced as I am, that the opinions
lence to which we ought to listen with the great- ■
upon eft attention, are precisely those from which
erals, we diflent. I proceed to the examination |
f our of the different proportions, laid down in tM
e ex- the speech of Lamarque. He considered H
rfs of as unconstitutional the attention which you 1
:d ar- had bestowed upon the events which have j
izens lately taken place, and particularly upon B
have the inarch of the troops. It would be dif
ie re ficult more eompjetely to confound two ob- j
thei jedts very diftindt. Thb uirtftory doubtlesspoffefTes the right to put the troops in mo
tlon, and to determine the mode in whicl
they shall be employed. But does it follow
that their muft never occup]
your attention, especially when it is tracec
to a point which the troops cannot pas:
without your authority ? The conftitutioi
gives the legislative body the right to re
quire information from the dire&ory. Tliii
information is intended to enlighten you'
committees entrnfted with the preparatior
of the laws. Upon what objeft more im
portant could you require information, thai
upon the march of the troops, and upor
the extraordinary events which have foi
some time taken place ? Nay more, the di
rkfkory had fharcd your fblicitude, and hac
solemnly promised to examine into the au
thor of the order, the name of whom you
had demanded. So far then there is a(per
feft agreement between the two powers.
Both united to investigate the cause of the
extraordinary movement which occasioned
general anxiety. How then does it happen
that to day a reprcfentative of the people
ventures to afTert, that you have violated
the constitution ? Doubtless you had vio
lated the constitution, if you had not view
ed with the mod serious attention the move
ments organized around you. No—by this
conduft you did not trench upon the power
/of the diredtory ; and thirf opinion, in which
you all agreed, naturally me to point
out the fyftctri which ha 3 been assiduously
pursued to counttraft the legislative power,
by extending uniformly, a.,d under uirery
pretext, the limits of the executive autho.
rJtjr. You are now accused of encroaching
upon its privileges. In the fame manner
were you told, that you had not the right
to /hut up the popular societies, to publish
a proclamation in order to demonstrate" to
the French people the parity of your inten
tions : to seek information now becomes ne-
Ceflary ; to hear reports; to require that
positive answers (hould be fubdituted to
communications completely evasive. To
trust the partisans of such a system, the le
gislative body would soon be reduced to
the impotence of only enacting laws. f Some
members laughed ; several voices, " Jt jbould
be so.") Allow me to finifh. Two efien
tial attributes characterize your pow -; you
enatt laws, but you retain the right of su
perintending their execution. In order to
exereife this Superintendence, you must in
vestigate ; you must hear reports, upon the
result of which you form your opinions
and prepare the laws, which it is your bu
' fmefs to introduce. Neither was I less
astonished to hear it said that this tribune
had refoundsd with accusations againftfome
of our generals. I call upon the whole
council to bear witness to the truth of what
lam about to aflert. Never has any speaker
omitted an opportunity of bestowing, with
in these walls, a just tribute of praise upon
our generous defenders, and upon their glo
rious chiefs. Recoiled that memorable day,
whert the preliminaries of peace were an
nounced. With what feufibility did he
who preSided on that occasion, declare that
the French armies, crowned with vjftory
and with peace, had deserved well of hu
manity. Tears Streamed from your eyes.
The delicate touches of the orator went to
your hearts ; it is true, my colleagues—
(a.general cry, " Yes, yes.")— Who has
rot pronounced with sentiments of affeftion
the illuftrioui name of the pacificator of
La Vendee ? Has that of the hero of I'.aly
ever been mentioned without exciting en
thusiasm ? Never within these walls did we
omit to pay homage to his great qualities ;
his humanity, even his moderation obtained
just apologists. Was it not here that the
firft tribute of thanks for his generous con
duct towards the ministers of religion exiled
from France, was Voted ? I know that
abuses which had crept into the account
of certain funds, which appear, to have
been diverted, were mentioned. But can
it be imagined that it ever enttred into our
minds to accuse our generals of these dila
pidations, to require from the man who
levelled the Austrian power, and discon
certed their military plans, a mechanical at
tention to the drynefs of financial calcula
tions ? No. We never conceived such an
idea. But what could be thought of us if
the delapidations of secondary agents,a thou
farid times denounced by the generals them
selves, did not engage our attention ? Be
cause dilapidations are committed in the
armies, must we Shut our eyes ? tiuft we o
vertKrow the constitutional system of ac
counts, and substitute an arbitrary diltribu
tion in the room of the regular administra
tion of the trcafury ? We have heard here
of some Strange power or other given to
your committee of infpedtors. Believe me,
representatives, in this refpeft you have done
no more than your duty. If no conspira
cies exilt, so much the better, my most ar
dent wiShes are accomplished. If they do,_
you have my GnceVe thanks ; you have
cheeked their progress, you have disconcert
ed their effeas by your wisdom and by your
firm moderation. Is it really neccfTary then
seriously to refute those who have no other
mode of blaming your conduit than by tel
ling you, " Impeach the direttory ?" Ate
those who employ this language ignorant
that such a system which they pretend is
constitutional, would be fubverfire of the
principles of bur representative government.
Opposition in our eyes, then must be uncon
stitutional. Look at our neighbours the
English, look at th« Americans : are you ig
norant that in their parliament and in their
senate, the ministerial power, and the royal
authority are attacked, are cenTured, and
that the censures of these authorities would
be their most Sirm fijpports, if instead of cen
sure it was meant to overthrow ? It may be
neceflary to censure what it would' be crim
inal to subvert. We have heard a great
deal also of the industry which calumny ex
erts to villify the republican institutions and
authorities. No authority, lam perfuad
td, is more the objeft of calumny at this '
moment than our own. But let a few wild j
demagogues, let a few Stupid anarchists mis- ;
represent tbefe opinions and accuse our in- '
- teiitioris—Of flrhat importance is it- ? Tj utl
1 is immoveable : It too is a power. Byth;
t light of its torch will the people of Franc<
r analyze your proceedin s, and judge ofyoui
I j conduit. It is fmd that the priests return
? : But the just and salutary law by which the\
i are recalled, was palled unanimously by the
- two councils. Can you then accuse your
> selves ? The emigrants returned I hear, 1
r confefs I can hardly restrain indignation, I
l cannot conceive how the dire&ory speak;
- of those returned, their language, their
i audacity. Do not the laws exilt ?Is it pof
l fible to imagine a power more extensive,
r more absolute, more monstrous than thai
- of the direftory with regard to emigrant'! i
I What ! We have betrayed our duty. We
■ have violated the constitution in giving the
i directory the right of life and death over a
■ Frenchman alledged to be an emigrant Itj
; a word, it may corifign him to the Scaffold .. ,
• You Shudder with horror, citizens, when I
[ remind you of a legislation so barbarous,
i Gracious providence 1 Is it not fufficient
• for the directory to be invested with an au-
I thority so monstrous, "an authority which
ought to rouze the indignations of every
foul of freedom ? And does the council im
■ | pedc the execuecution of the law ? Does
i the council arrest the powers of the directo
ry ? Has the council fufpend'ed this attro
. cicms licer.fe, no ; it has not, but it may
; | withdraw nn authority which no government
fhotild poflefs ; it may annihilate a legifla
j tion which no free government can fanftion,
which no humanity can endure ... (a num
ber of voces, yes, yes, to the vote .. . The
mod lively agitation prevails in the council )
' ! The purchasers of national property, it is
| f;i;ei, areinfulted, menaced, affafiinated. 1 lie:
last speaker and the mefTage seem here to
combine to accuse you of not giving to these
purchasers fuffieieut guaranty and pro
tection. .1 will not remind you, that the
guaranty is constitutional, that they are en
titled to protection from the government,
but I will tell you what you do here every
day. Do riot you fell the national domains ?
Do you not supply the treasury with their
i produce ? Would you fell what remains, if
you intended todefpoiljheoriginalpurchafers?
Such imputationsdo not requireto beconfot
ed. You way let demagogues in their
'frenzy pollute with these foul accusations
their empoisoned productions ; your con
duCt is fufßcient answer to them all
I am far from reproaching the last speaker
with tl.fcinfinuations contained in his speech,
j which are nothing less than an impeachment
of your condudt."
Lamarque—" I disavow them, they are
foreign to my heart."
Vaublanc—l know it, Citizen—T am most per
! feSly convinced of it. I firmly believe too, that
I you will be the firft to oppose the printing of a
j speech, which contains an indirect impeachment of
the conduil of the two councils. I oppose tli
; printing therefore. Our colleague Bailljr. hn mo
ved, That *tfe meffige te refcrrrd to a committer
—1 support the ropofition. We ought to tave
report upon the Legifla'ive views fugg.lled tn th
mcflage of theDire&ory. For example, with rt
gi-d to purchasers of national property, priests a/
emigrants, we mull know when, where and hav.
a purchalcr ha* been affaflioated, a priest has dif
p! ye ! feHition and rebellion, or a- emigrant has
palled with i.»punity ? I cannot conclude, Reprer
fentatives, without reminding you oi what the
Dated retyping th addreflesfrcm one
of the armies of the Republic. The qreateft part
of these breathe the purest and senti
ments worthy of rhc-intrepid defenders of l iberty
and the Conil.'iation. i'h«fe I allude to are ad
dressed to the Directory, and th*ir contents, hy
ing afidc, perhaps, the irregularity of the er
ation of which they are the result, ,are such an I
have defcnn*d. '1 here are two, however, which 1
muil confefs,have provoked my in
ire sent frcm oce anayto another, they are dired ,
ticularly the Five Hundrei.-—;
But Jiere I (lop -In this address I djfeover nei '
ther the fault of the soldiers uor thuL* 4 of the cffic j
ers, hut the fault-of fonfl persons by whom thcf
have Ween
Senate that a finale fault fhoulJ bp put in the bal .
nice with the heroic labors, the innumerable frrvi
ces, from whofc u fufpiciou> gencrofitr it has been
I support the of my col- ! f
Bailly." Ibe Council palTcd to the order
of the day, on the rpotion for printing La Maique's
speech, and adopted the, proposition of Bailly.
The m lTage of the Dire&ory was referred to a
committer of fevn m'mbers, and com
muncated tb the Council cf Elders.
NORFOLK, September 28.
By a gentleman pafitngrr in the Da»i/h (hip,
Chritlians Haven> Capt. Patrick Corran,
arrived yesterday in 43 days from Tene
riffe, we have received the following :
Defeat of the British at Tenerijfe.
On the morning of the 22d of July, the
town of Santa Cruz was alarmed at the ap--
pearance of 7 English Ihips lying off,' and
36 armed boats that ranged across the liar- '
bour. It feemefi evidently their witenrior
to have landed in town before day, but fc.il
ing in that attempt they returned to the (hip
ping. At 10 o'clock, about laoo men
were landed, and polled thentfelves upon th<
summit of a fecoud ridge of mountains jon
the N. E. while the Spaniards were Ration
ed on the firft ridge, which commanded the
entrance into the town by a narrow passage.
/Some trifling firing ensued without loss on
either fide. At night the English re-em
barked, and the ships ftood"!>ff and on until
the evening of the 24th, when all came to
anchor. A bomb ketch commenced a par
tial fire on a distant fort, by way of attract
ing the attention of the Spaniard*, which
was warmly returned. Between one and
two o'clock the town was alarmed by the
approach of boats, and the forts iuftantly
commenced . a heavy and incefiant fire on
them. The darkness of the night favored
the views of the English, and between 8 and
900 landed in two parties on each fide of
the castle. One small party of 50 men com
manded by adn #.l Nellon, and capt. Bow
en landed on the Mole ; the firft loft his
right arm, and immediately returned on
board. Capt. Bowen with most of his little
party was killed advancing to the charge.
The other party penetrated into the. town,
aflaulted the castle, were repulsed and at last
took refuge in a convent. Thither they
were pursued by the Spaniards, who by this
time had placed cannon in the ftreetsand a
venucs that led to it. The English finding
themselves ftirronnded on tvery fide, offi-;\;d
terras to at he general, in Which they propo
sed to march out, without cloing injury to
the town, upon condition of being delivered
the money in the pu v Uc treasury, and the
cargo of a Manilla (hip in the harbour, which
they erroneously supposed worth lo or k
millions. '
The Spanish general was fired wfth indig
nation at the proposal, and was about giv
ing the signal for massacre, when they sur
rendered upon condition of marching out
with their arms, alid not fcrving in any ex
pedition again# the Canary illands for 12
months. The loss of the Eiij'iiih was a
botn 100 killed and wounded on fhpj-j?, and
the officers supposed between Iyd and 200
drowned in a cutter that and from
theii boats in larfding. The: Spaniards un
der arms were 18-killed a.nd 30 wounded, 1
together with some private persons who:
were imprudently iiithe streets, among whom
was Mr. C. Roonev, an Irish gentleman,; i
known for his humanity to the diflreffed,'
and generous affiflanee and attention to fo
reigners who visit the island. .
The capitulation being signed and the
prisoners collefted on the Mole. The Spa- 1
nifh general caused bread w ine so be givi
en t*> Ofcry man, ordered every afisftance to
the wounded, and humanelv offered twiake
those under his care, who fhoiild.be thought
too ill to be carried on boa'd, : —He receiv
ed a very handsome letter from admiral Nel-.
son, in which was expressed unbounded
gratitude for his humanity, adding that he
would take thefirft opporfunity'of commu- 1
nicating it to his sovereign.
The Bvrtith officers very honorably de
clared that their 'intention was not to have'
kept pofTeffion of the island.had they taken
It, as they supposed that peace was at that
time concluded ; but only to require the
money in the tre alary, and the cargo of the
Manilla ihip. It was n«t unw.fonable in
their enemies to presume that as that requi
sition would not have amounted' to one-tenth
of the sum they expected, ft wtfiild have
been raised from their private property,
The persons who composed the expedi
tion were sailors, the crews of the different
vefTels.
The following are the (hips engaged in* this
expedition :
rr,, r f Vice A. Nelson,
Thefeu. 74 | Capt . Mffler.-
Culloden 74 Capt. Trowbridge.
Zealous 74 Hood.
Leander 50 Thompson.
Emerald 36 Waller.
Sea-Horie 3 t5 Freemantle.
Terpsichore 32 Bowen.
Fox, cutter 4 Lieut. Gibfon, with 10
pieces of artillery, funk by the fort, and
upwards of 100 men on board perished.
Yeflerday arrived the schooner Margaret -
ta, captain S. Barron. From a gentleman i
pafTenger we have received the following :
Extraft ps a letter from St. Bartholomews,
dat<d Augufl 29.
" A vefiel from Nevis informs us that
there is an embargo at St. Ivitt's, in con
feqnence of a plot having been found out
amongst the windward regiment of coloured
militia, to set that island in a state of in
furreftion, and to make themselves mailers
of Brimstone-Hill."
«.»■ 1
Xi)t c&isette.
/ PHILADELPHIA,
f THURSDAY EVrNiyC,. Qctob'R s
CITY HOSPITAL REPORT,
From 4th to ytH Octriber,-in the morning.
' Admitted, fines last report,
Jane Rush, 272, South Second street.
Sarah Rofs, Almond, between Front and
Seeond.
Hannah Jamifon, Vernon street.
Isaac Hoffman, Perkin's, Penn street.
Difchargcd since Isft report : •
Frederick Dunifter, admitted 27th tilt.
Edward Rielly, ' 2Jth
Died since last report :
. , . „ . howlonjrfickpf-e- i
when admitted . . Vl
viuustoSdmiilion.
Herman Schas, ■ 2gth\ r diy.
• Remain it;,- last report • 49 ,
Admitted since - . < • 4
53 ;
Discharged 2
Died 1 —— 3
„ .-: __ e - f ConvalefcentiS7 „
in jtiofpittl. 3 1 j '
Foul: of whom are dangerous.
In erred finA last report. ,
From city and suburbs 6 1
Hofpit»l I I
—.—* '
Total 7 ;
Stephen Giraro.
(Signed) Caleb Lownes.
John Connelly.
Publilhed by order of the Board,
Wm. MONTGOMERY, 1
Chairman pro tem. 1
The Health Committee have come to a i
resolution to reqneft the governor to difcon- |
tinue the quarantine, except on vessels from i
Jamaica, the Havannah, cape Niehola Mole 1
and generally all the ports in the Bite of '
Leogane. Ii« • j j
- . ■
Died.] —Arthur Stewart, a Clerk I
of Conyngham ancj Nefbitt's, at thehoufe ;
of David Conyngham.
. , Florence M'Carthy, aged 16 ,
years, at the houfn of John O'Hara, in front
near the comer of Walnut street. !
at Salem, Massachusetts, Major
General John Fisk, a celebrated naval com
mander in the service of that State, during .
the revolution war.
It is said, that a Negro dropped from the
aittc ftorv to the ground, at the late fire in
Mr. PARKs'sßeef-Steak-Hcuie, Z.achan'3
< ourt, unhurt. • . : f
d Tote!of luriah far 24 hours, Itm'iug yepr
)- day at noon.
0 Grown Perlbns. bhSWr'rn.
Fir ft p rgfnvtemft o I
7hlr»l Prcfbytcrian o I
. A florid re ■ l.urch O X
" St. Vfary's Church i o
5 Trinity % 0
I Iv -e I o
.. I Ccrnrui X>uthcran i o
v ptif>?s o I
1 O
Potter's Fi Id 1 2
t City Hospital* 9 o
KenfTgconl 3 j
2 \ ' .20 7
~ 11 * * Six of theft from the city.
f One from Camptoxun.
D —,
a The nvmler of lar 'tah on the 4th of Ofto
-1 l' r > 1 793> •was fifty eight.
i Deaths at Baltimore, O&ober 1, 8.
1
, Mr. Fei^no,
, Afterprefrntingmygrateful acknowledg
ments to my fellow citizens for past instan
ces of confidence, be pleased to inform them
that on account of ill health, lam obliged
-j to decline the nomination to serve in Cidih
■> mon Council the ensuing year.
1 Edward Pennington.
j Oft- 4-
Norther ft Liberties, Cjfl* $, I 795.
Citizens Members of the Northern Liberty
\ Fire Company, No. 1, having removed dur
ing the present epidemic, will be good e
nough to give ordtrs- to such persons who
may have charge of their houses, to fend the
Buckets, and Basket of each absent j
Member to the house of the Prefldent of the
Company, who will be responsible therefor.
Recent alarms of fire render this requisition
abfjolutely necessary. - .
SAMUEL GAR RIGUS, President.
A charity sermon will be preached
on Snnday next, at 3 o'clock, at St. Tho
' nras's African Church, in the city of Phila
delphia, for the relief of the poor and dif'-
trefled citizens, by the rev. Absalom Jonei.
o<sVober-5.
HEALTH-OFFICE, OA. 4.
Accampanying this you will receive the
sum of five hundred forty-eight dollars and
forty-two cents ; likewise a considerable
quantity of sweet potatoes and cabbage,
with three quarters of mutton, to be applied
towards the poor at the tents, and such o
ther persons as the committee may think
suitable objects, being the donations of a
number of the citizens of Philadelphia with
others of the inhabitants of New- Jersey, re
siding at and near Cooper's Ferry.
SAMUEL COOPER.
O&ober 3d, 1797.
To James Oldden, chairman of the com
mittee of volunteers superintending the poor '
at the tents of the commons near Schuylkill. '
The following donations were also re
ceived :
From Joseph Burroughs-—B-| cwt. rice,
12lb. tea and 41b. chocolate.
From M. R. Peters—l sheep, 8 bushels
potatoes, and a quantity of bread and vege
tables.
Published by order of the committee,
(Signed)
t- JAMES OLDDEN.
At a meeting of a number of citizens cf^ 1 <
Philadelphia, held at Darby on the 3d of; '
Oftoher, 1797, to. take into consideration
the diilrefies of their fellow citizens et this
affli&iiig fesrfon, it,was unanimously resolved,
That a fnbfcription be opened for their relief. '
In consequence of which the following gen- t
tlemen were appointed a committee for im- ]
mediatdly soliciting the pecuniary aid of the f
. benevolenttitizens who are at present in the •
feid town and vicinity, viz. '
Jame# .Strawbridge, Jfaac Lloyd, Wm. '
Bell, Isaac Price, Dr. Benjamin Say, H.
Sparks,, jilp. Thomas Randall, Peter Brown. ,
It was -plfo agreed that George Latimer, <
£fq. thf-Chairman of the, Meeting.be de- <
fired to forward the amount when colledled. ,
The gentleman present fubferibed and paid
foUr hundred and doll aw. } t
■' I /
The luminous, political disquisitions of Peter Por
cupine, after having effe«steJ the most important c,
fervifes iii opening tlieeyen of tht? American, peo
ple to» the bloo'd-mmded views of SanfcuHottifm, t
hTve at length their way to England—•;
:irc now circulating in that country with the moll , «
unbounded cclat. *
One cannot but t«*lce pleafur? in thi\ if it be on- i
iy for the mortification it must afford the dcm«- f
crars ; but it is still m ire important in another J
point view,—a?'it serves to shew that <•'
merit (whatever caftsiHs and men fond of looking
constantly on the gloomy fide of human nature,
may aflert to the contrary) will infallibly rwfe it
ftlf, in the event, by ;md well-dire»3-
1 ed efforts, above the reach of"harm from the pow
erful and united engines of Dujnefs, Prejudice and
Malice.
a
C 0 M MUNI CA TION. r
j 1
-'M R FE N O , J
F-Vt'ry little whik v/e hear a great talk about |
the .deplorable- .condi iion into which England has j
brought herfelf by the war : Bui pray let me aflc rF
what grrat exemptions has our neutrality left us to j (
boast of? Have we not ftlfered in our commerce a
by the gripe of tlve ravenous republic to an extent
beyond,all even to Great-Britain ? And
in silu r refpt «^ts ) is eur condition. ? The
war ha s saved Great-Britain from falling a prey to
the Spirit of jrcohinifin ; —v/hereas we have yet to j
contend with it—and maintain at this moment a }
perplex;ng-flrugY'u w hicli fcmbarraffes all our ope- |
, rations, «.nd palings ererv national energy. And I
has ou" fawning, crouching conduct, rendered us j
any the less obnoxious to the ambitious
Nay, is (he not, at this "moment, whetting ber |
fangs, to ilrikc i'ome deadly blow at u/. Alre.wiy | t j
carrying on maritime ho (lili'.ics again ft us\s fli?noc j r
wuit.naf folejy.for a termination of those Inods file S f
has on ler at hem?, to fall with the more | j
vigot on our divided ?->d
V»r. l : enr.o, this appears certain ; and I have long j -
mafvemd at the llupor which seems to pervade a!<. |
all ranks, under a fituat ; on of the most critical and j
luc-enie. We fectn to be sleeping over g
the embers cf a volcano, wlvofe eruption app-arsj f,
certain, and of wlucl\" the corft quences ure meal- | t
eulabie. v.iy we nr.* b'Cgul too hte, to take pre- < -
cautions ?Vaiiiil its Con'equei ces-
If peiid.rig-conteil between arbitrary ;ow- {
er i-lid the ,«v France, (hofild not eventuate j
\
r- ! > thc.*S.vbliflißi3nt of frme regular form of fov
cfnmenf, it isr>ear'y certain that thJ« country will
~n liave to nerve her aim jgainft.friternization an 1
fanfcHlottifm. Thert it will he to he regr. tt«d
that America had not the vvifdom to take warn p >■
by other*' harms. / k °
At a meeting of a number of the citizens
of Philadelphia, held atf the Union School
Hcufe in Germantown, on Saturday, the
30th day of September, 1797 :
It \vas agreed unanimously, to recom
mend the following gentlemen as suitable
characters to fill the offices which precede
their refpeftive names :
Member of the Senate of the slate of Pertn
fy'vanta, for the di/friß coinpofed of the
city and county of Philadelphia and county
lo- of Delaware :
Benjamin R~. Morgan.
Members of the Hoyfe of lieprefentatives for tht
City of Philadelphia.
George Latimer Robert Wain
Jacob Hiltzheimer Lawrence Seckel
t. J°feph Ball Francis Gurney.
Members of the Seled Coimiil of the City of
m Philadelphia :
■d Godfrey H:iga Henry Pratt
James R -ad Francis Gumey.
Members of the Common Council of the City
of Philadelphia.:
Matthias Saddler Michael Keppele
James Todd Walter Frtmklin
i iiomas Parker, Thomas Allibone
y George Pennock James S. Cox
I Ed Ward Pennington, Henry Drinker, Juri.
Henry Wharton, Caspar W. Morris
0 j Ju'eph Hopkinlon Thomas P. Cope
e j I iiomas Greeves Levi Holh'ngfwortli
t I Conrad Gerhard Lawrence Herbert
e Gideon H. Wells George Fox.
Publilbed by order of the Meeting,
u KEN R'- PRATT, Chairman,
JOHN HALLOWELL, Sec'ry
* #*■ The Subl/riber having been, against
j his inclination, forced forward into public
notice, by a current of events, over which be
; hid no controul ; thinks fit to inform the
Slibfcribers to the Gazette of the United
States, that the Editor (his father) has
been unavoidably absent for fix weeks past.
He feels himfelf induced to mention this cir
> cumftance as an apology for any deficiency
j which may have appeared in any department
, of the paper.
fiefet with every species of unforefeen dif
frefs and embarrassment, (arising out of the
afflifting calamity which has defolatcd the
city) during almost the whole interval, he
( can only affurethofe to whom any thing may
| have appeared to be wanting, that his best
endeavors, directed by a constant solicitude
to render the paper of continued utility to
the public, have, on no occasion, been
wanting.
The return of his father is momently ex- 1
. pe&ed ; when he will again refutae his Edi
torial functions.
JcJhn Ward Fenno.
Oftober c.
J 1
The Philadelphia, Atfion, and Tuckerton
MAIL STAG E.
RLE proprietors beg leave to inform the public, that
tbey have ejiablifved a Stage bet-ween Philadel tibia,
Atfion, Batjlo, Hampton, Speed-well, and Afar to a Fur
nace, Wading River flitting mill and thctoivn of Tuck"
in Nev^Jerfey, to go once a weeJt, and are provi
ded with good herfrs, a corvfar table carriage, and a care
ful driver, for tbe conveyance of the mail,paffengers, and
goods. Tie Stage will Jlart every Thursday, at io
o'cock* A. M from Mr. Daniel Ferry. and
* iQdge that night at Joel Bodine's* at Longacoming ; and
6* on Friday 6 o'clock, P. M.. arrive at Caleb E
} v ins's, inkceper, in Tuckerton, dijlant from the city
* n:'t'es K (from the Atlantic 6, and from the Eafl Groufmg
1 Plains f miles) where are good accommodation! for tra
xcllftty and where are commodious and fafe paffuge boats
provided to "convey paffetgers to Capt. William IVar
rirtgtons hovje, on Tucker's Island, adjoinining the At-
LuU'iCy where arc good aceommoaationr, and a convenient
pUce to Lathe ; the ffortfmjn zufco ivijhes to regale bimfelf
•urtNf fowling andffbing, may at this place be highly gra
tified, there being at alrnofl every tfeajm of the y7ar fowl
a -id in abundance. — Tbe Stage on i.s re.urn, fl«rts
frtffii the a for efaid C Evans* sin Tuckerton, eveiy Tuef
uckty at 6 o'Jccl-, A. M.brcskfafls at John Bodine's, at
l%*vding Jlivfr lodge that night At Longacoming,
and at S o*clock, P. on IVcdnfday, arrive at the
obre/aid C§pcr\' Ferry. It is preferred thai no route of
an equal dfiance will be Irfs expenftve, or furnifo the tra
veller with a greater vnrieiy of amusement, as be 11 ill
not only have aif leaf ant fail to atiant.c from Tutter
■' ton, but hjve thf cari'fty of f eing on the road thither a
number of capital f rnaccs aid forges y and- one flittv.g
:nilly in complete > and at work ; gentlemen, too, who
are owners, or fa&ors, of any of the aforef aid iron works,
are fMcited to encourage and support this sage (by wheh
they can befo well a c cam modeled) the continuant eof which
will much depend on their aid. The rates of passengers
and baggage are as fllows : For a passenger from tbe
eforrfiid Da.tXjvoper's Ferry to Tuckerton, including
per txilej Ftur Cents—ls6 lb. of b 'ggefge * qual to aprtf -
fencer. Pottage of letteri, ncufpapers, ijfe. will be
agreeably to laiv.
•V. B. "7he mail crosses from the Old Ferry.
THOMAS IVARDI E Ist Co.
T.
The Citizens of Philadelphia and
the Suburbs,
RESIDING in or near Germantown,
are eameftly' requested to meet at the Ger
man School Houfc, in the fchpol hcufe
lahe, on Saturday next, at three o'clock in
the afternoon; to take into cofi'deration "the
present fuffering ilate of the' Poor of the
City and Suburbs, and adopt such measures
j as humanity may point out.
Germantown, 03. 3.
; MHI)IC rNE S.
OF evfry kind nacfDry for rbc sick aifo, Sa
j jro, Barley, and Oatrr.el, for diet drink, will fee
J. del weir it gta ti s, during the prcf?nt cortngioii, to
\ tk-fe who are ur.uble to pay for it, at Hunter's
, No. 114. South Second Street.
' MKDILINE S.
\ THE Po"r w!'.o may find it inconvcniert, from
dift;.i>R", to make ufecf Mr. Hunter's truly mc-' .
ritorious offer, w;li.be supplied with racjiicine—
fa»o, barley, oatmeal, &c. hy tp lyinc at the
iubferibqr'.s Acre, No, 36, Market-ft ret t.
ROBERT S. STAFFORD.
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT tby Comrr>iflu>i:i:rs for the Oiftrlil oh
Scu*)iwark have removed their hall to the houfc
/ formerly occupied "by Sanrfeel OofF, in Chrifliviti at
the comer of Bafth Ureet. OR. 2.
THE iVi Ai U y.'S OF LieE *
If tri'T, r»R TUB PRESENT, AT TK3
CITY HALL.ImportedinthefltipMANCHESTEßj!
Besjamin GhSwcll, Mailer, | ~
From Bonrdeaux, and for isle by the iubferiber, J J
?.'o. ir Wslnut Street.
Bonrdep.ux Brandy
Irifli market claret in cases ( Entitled to -r-
Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback.
Sautefte, do. do. J thie
Thomas Murgatroyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE. Th(
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter casks iht
Rota do. do. J
Pimejito in bags
4000 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tMt&Stf.
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the highest bidder, at the house of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of the Indian
Qveen, in the city of Baltimore, on the. 15th
day of October next, at 11 o'clock, A. M
About seven thousand acres of land, /
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lying between Reifler's-town and VVertaiinfter,
commonly called Little Winchester, (the turn
pike road runs through a confidarable part of
these lands) the tra<st begins about 17 miles;
from r>alrimore, within a sow hundred yards
of said Reilter's-town, and extends to the dil
tance of about twenty-thrte miles from Balti
more, and lies on the main falls of Patapfieo
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will
be fold in traits of .one hundred and fifty to
three hundred acre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on each tradt,
some of them highly improved, with excellent
buildings and fine gr„fs.
Al SO
A tratt of seven hundred acres of ,
land, called Clover Farms, with'm live miles of ry
Bladenfhurg, efteeme.l vtry good fur Grass, in
Richard Ponfonby.of Bladenfburgh, will shew boi
this land to ajiv person inclined to purchase. do^
ALSO, lat '
A trad of land of about three hun- m "
dred and thirty awes, within about two miles
and a half o the Prefident'n house in the I ede- |
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
high profpeil,' from which may be fcea the
ciry of Washington, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
and 1 part of George-town, and many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Ponfon
by, of Bladenlburg, will also Ibew this land. He
' A liberal credit will be given for the greatest v
part of the purchase money, ihe terms will £
be made known on the day of sale. tio
May 8 w -1 m
Just Received, " e
From Batavia (via Providence) coi
a few Boxes of Spices, conlifting of ed
Nutmegs, Clovcsand Mace I°'
For sale by P u
WILLINC-Stf FRANCIS,
Penn-ftreet.
Hay 30
Davis's Law Book Store, th '
No. 319, High-Street. pa
GEORGE DAVIS, ™
BEING busied for some time past in prepara
tions for removing into his present house, has
bfeen under theneceflity of poltpnninguntil this day p
informing the gentlemen ofthe Ba'r generally thro
the Haired States, that his spring importation of n(
law books is now arranged and ready for (ale, on
terms that he truftrf will entitle him to the like pre- _
freence he has experienced for leveral years pall.
Catalogues, combining the most varied collec
tion ever imported irtto this country, are printed
and will be delivered on Application.
June 17. » aw 6w
City Commijfioners' Office,
June 12,1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the feletf
and common councils, parted the lid day of
May last, appointing the city c«nimifiioners,
and prelcribing their duties, feiSion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, A
That the city is divided into five diltriifts,
each to be under tbe fuperintendance of one of
the city commiflioners, wboistobe individually
relponfihle for the cleanliness of the fame, and
are as follow.
Driftrift No. t. From the south fide of Ce- f
dar-ftreet, to the north fide of Spruce-(treet, un
de rth« superintendence of N at ' ljn Boys.
2. From the north fide of Spruce-ftreef, to
the north fide of Walnut-flreet, under the f»per
intendence of Hugh Roberts. '
3. From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide of Righ-ftreet, under the superintendence of ■
Joseph '
4. From the north fide of High-street, to the
north fidr of Mulberry street, under the super
intendence of William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberry-street to
the north fide of Vine-street, under the super- '
intendenee of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaningof High-street to be in commtm. J
£s> A slated meeting of the city commiflion
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High- ;
street, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock. '
July 14. eoim
Stands for Draymen, &c. <'
In purfuanct of an Ordinance from tbeSeleU and
• Common Councils,bearing date the %%d day of
April, 1797, providing for tbe appointment of
City Comm(ffiontrs, '-3 c. Seel, tbe 15 tb.
T'HE following places arc fixed upon by the
jL said City Commiflioners for Stands for
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-flreet, caftward of Front-street, on
b °SalTai>a's, High.Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eastward of Front-street, on the no.-th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to
Third-street. , r . .
Front-street, east fide from Vine-flreet to
Elfrith's alley- ,
Front-street, from opposite to Black Hoffe al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Water-street, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Moorr's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce-Jar-ftreet, weft
Drawbridge, nprth fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South streets, tall of Frost
street, south l'de.
Dock-ltreet, between Walnut-street and the
flag ftonc croffiflgs, east fide, opposite George
°Second-ftreet, between SafTsfras and Vine
A re <-ts, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Cliefnut to Mul
bts7ffafratftreet, from Third to Fourth-street,
t4 No d«v or horse to stand within ten feet of
"VTINDS FOR HACKNEY COACHES.
Plne-itreet, north tide from Fourth to Filth
" r piftb-ftrfct, between Cliefnut and Walnut
north fide,between Third and
Fourth streets. im
July 14-
A Literary Treat.
yujl publ'tfbedhandfomely printed on wr it lag \
paper, price I dollar, -t 3
A new edition of that popular and entertaining a*"*d
work, entitled • ~ t|llc
rHE FORESTERS, an American Tab ; .being !<■",
a sequel to the hiliory of John Bull ch-e Clo- > n
thier—ln afeiiesof letters to a friend, with the ad- fart
dition of t«o letters, alluding to recent political flat;
tranfa&ipos in America.
Th« following extra<sl from the CLwis Allpgorica, thir
(hews th-' principal charaiteNi that are intt nun
John Bull, the Kingdom of Erigliad nea
Hi* Mother, th?CI urch of England S en
His Wife, the Parliament ( ' ,c
liisSifter Peg, the Church Qf Scotland the
His Brother Patrick. Ireland w^:
Lewis, the Kingdom of France A®' l
HiaMiftref*, the Old Conflitution
His new Wife, the National Representation T
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic
The Farefters, the United btatesof America Sch
1 Robert Lumber, N'ew-Hampihire terr
John Codline, Maflachufetts min
Humphrey Plowshare, ConneSicut Mai
Roger Carrier, Rhode Iflind Sho
Peter Bull Frog, New-York tere
Julius Caesar, New-Jersey
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
Cafltmar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
His Grandson, George Washington
Peter Pitch, North Carolina
Charles Indigo, South Carolina
George Trusty, Georgia p
,f.than Greaiwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky
Black Cuttle, Negro Slaves * c
Rats, Speculators
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins
.<£s" This popular and entertairrfngfatiricalhifto
ry of Amarica is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel
knap. It has a great (hare of originality and a
bownds with genuine humour. It is continued
down to the present time, and choradlerifes those
late political transitions which have caused so
much uneaGnefs in America.
Sold by H. and P. RICE 7 Bookseller, No. 16,
South Second Street, and No. 50, Marke' ftjeet.
I June 26. §
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. iO, Market street,
HAVE just received by the Ute arrivals Ircm
London and Dublin, their spring importa-
tion, confiding of a variety of the latest and mo ft
approved Law Books, which, added to those alrca-
dy on hand, forms the most extensive collection ev
er offered for sale in this country. They theicfore
beg leave to notiix, that from the nature of their
connediensin Dublin, they are enabled to fell Irish
editions (a» they have hitherto at the very
Mowed prices. The following are among the latest
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 2 Yi-U.
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Refortt
in the time of Lord Hardwicka ; Floyer's Procters
Pra<Sice in the Eccleflaftical Courts; Barton s ,
Treatise on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's Practice of
the Sourt of King's Bench ih Personal Adtions, 1
parts complete ; Ward's Law jof Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, 11 vols. London edi-
tion.
H. and P. Rici expeft to receive by the firll ar- '
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, the id part of Gil- .
bert'sLawof Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 16. p
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD, 1,1
IS now in the prefi) and will be published,
with all convenient expedition, by ZiCHA-
■ riah Poulson, jtin. No. So, Chefnut-ftreet, G
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue al
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
t according to the printed propt-fals, until the
work it ready for the fubferiberj.
July 18. lawtf
Printed Calicoes.
f
f JOHNMILLER, Jun. & Co. <
1 No. t Che/nut-Street,
J Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS Heatly assorted, very low on '
- (hort credit.
. March 6. §
0 Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
South Fifth-ftreet.
h />uguft 2. w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijburgh Carlijle,
e Sbifpenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
0
> 'f'HE public are requested to take notice, that
X the partnerfliip which has for some time fub
a. fitted between Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
v William Gecr, is now diflblved : but, not as M.
f,. Slough inftnuatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more -fully appear by a Utter on the fub
jeft from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necessary. Auy gentleman who wilhes to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
ld this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
"J the perusal »f M. Slough's letter, and then can be
°f at full liberty to determine whether or not W.'
Gecr is not perfe&ly juftifiabie in attaching him
be fdf to al] y other person in the prosecution of the
■ c r Stage «>nveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg. or any othfcr place,
on Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
its, this business, William Geer, in conjunction with
ly. Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a leal to oblige the pub
to lie can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render tbe passage fate and commodious, inform
1 _f those wnu wi(h to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they ran take their feats at
George Weed's, the fipn o! the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, 011 every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
ORt established.
For the further accommodation of the public,
a Stage will start every Wedncfday from the house
,r g e of Samuel Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
'ine an< i rc turn from thc"ce and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that paflengers deftincd for
lul- Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon
eet, da;B ' WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster. Jan. i 7, 1 797-
of N. B. This Line of Stages starts from the
hovfe of William Ferrse, in Lancaster, on every
J. Tuesday ai|d Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ifth ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wedncf
nut day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
3n d from thence on every Thorfdsy : performing Jic
feme routine <*aily a. kl ic» tour from Philade)-
B phia. .
TO BE SOLD,
. pnffejjion given immediatmy, Anc
ALAKGK two story brick Houfe,lundfomely
fl'uated in Princeton. There are four rooms
and a large entry om er.
.•1 floor, and five rooms in Q
the gsirct, a range of back lyuildjpgs .^J ( lect in
fourth, and a piazza of 57 1 htIU » a V ,um P << n
in the yard, an excellent kitchen garden, at th<|
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
ftahles, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with In
flails in the two (tables for 17 horses. The heal
thiness and plrafantnefs ol its situation, and the Lat
number of genteel and agreeable tamilws in and
near the town, render it a desirable rctreeac for a
gentleman frpm the city- Thecommodioufnefs of q
the house, its central position, and rhe largenafs of 0 f
the llables, make itjevcry way fuitabUfrratavern,for u„
which it has alwajs been confiderd as a capital p W|
ftaad. Inquire on the pt'f nnfes, of ar
' ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princetoo, A Kg. 15. 19 —dfwtawrf Mo
NOTICE. "
IF Tutor O'Haha, who some years fincekept m ;i
School at the Nine Bridges, Queen's County, Eaf- (j,,
tern Shore, Maryland, be living, he is hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. Ambrose D f
Marlhal, near Warwick, Cecil County, Eastern
Shore, Maryland, from whom he will receive in
tereftir.g information. c 'a'
4. mw&f4W
City of Wafliington.
SCHEME ( L .
Of the Lottery, No. 11, ty
For the Improvement nf the Federal City. St ?
A mignificentdwelling-houfe io,oo©dollars,
& calh 30,000, ire 50,000 J
1 ditto 15,000 & cast *5,009 40,000 ,
I ditto 15,007 & calh 15,000 30,000 „
1 ditto 10,000 & ca(b 10,000 *O,OOO „
1 ditto 5,000 & eaih 5,000 10,000 ~
1 ditto 5,000 & eafh 5,00* 10,000 (>
I ciftt prize of to,ooo «
1 do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
jo 'to- 1,000 - • 10,000 u<
I ao do. 500 - - 10,000 a g
00 do. 100 - * 10,000 mi
j!-,o do. 50 - - 10,000 et<
400 do. »( - - 10,000 tio
1,000 do v »o ' - »0,000
15,00® «•>. 10 - »5»,ooo
16,739 ?Trzr>. " 'J
3),i6i Blanks.
50,000 Tickett, at Eight Dollars, 4yi,00»
N. B. Tofavour those whe may take a quan-
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars wdl be
the l«st drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last m
but oni : . „
And approved notes, securing payment in either
mt}n«y or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received foi aiiy number not left than 30 tick
ets. , _ T
This Lottjery will afford an elegant fpecitnen of
the private buildings to be created in the City of
Walhington—Two beautiful designs are already
felei£ted for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from these drawings it ispropofed toereit 1
two centre and r our corner buildings, as soon aspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them, r
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel S
I.ottery. A nett deduflion of five per cent, will ti
be made to defray the neccffary expenses of print- c
wig, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of si
the fund intended for the National Umverfity, to d
be eredled within the city of Walhington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the ii
Prizes, ire held by tto: President and two Direift- j
ers of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more tK«« half the amount of the lottery. F
SAMUEL BLODGET. d
.§, Tieketsmay be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Feter B
Gilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond ; u
and of Richard Wslls, Cooper's Ferry.
, mwf
From the Otfego Herald.
CAUTION.
WHERF.AS a combination of men in this
county have undertaken to enrich th«m
felves.by fabricating titles to fundr/ valuable tract*
of land, the property of gentlemen lining in New _
York, Philadelphia, Lordon andtaris, for which
trails of land large fumi of money have been paid
n to those fraudulent men, by innocent purchasers
It i» therefore ju(l that public information should
be given, to the end, that the injured snay seek re
- dress while the men have property, and are to b$
found. Those who have be«n discovered are Tru- ,
man Haarifon, Joseph Witsomb, said notv to rc
fide in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and
several othert who go under fiilitioi s names. It is
supposed that the lands offered fc r sale on those fa
bricated titles, are at least worth fifty thousand
'* dollars. Such as we have adlual knowledge of are
as follows : Lots No. II and 11, Otfego patent,
thousand acres each, the atftual property of William
Dellwyn, now of London ; lots No. 58 and 64,
fame patent, thousand acres each, the property of
at Mr. Chaumont, now of Paris, and James Averitl
b- and others, ot this State. There is some grounds
id t0 fuppofc that the lands of Richajd Wells and
d- Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their
c, management. —The Printers will do well to give
b- this a place in their papers, as well to caution the
th public against purchasing those lands, as also to de
n- prive those men »n future from mipofujg on iddivi
be duifs, which their education and addrels have en
°f abled them to do heretofore. Witcomb has been
»e a (hopkeeper of some note in this eourrtry.
be The following affidavits will fct in a clear point
N•' of view the wickcdnefs of those men, which wk«n
m- t he public have perused, will induce them to ex
he cufe the interferc.nce of Wm. COOPER,
nf- Otfego, July 28th, 17?7-
I Thomas Killy. of the County of Otfego, liav
:he ing been led into an error, by John Witcoroh and
in Truman Harrifon, of the fame County, to sign a
ith deed to them, for lot No. 58, O fego patent, which
led was the property of William 1 Franklin note Mr.
at- Chamont's and 01 hers ; ind ltrrther the said Joseph
ib- and Truman did perluade me to do this against my
inclination, which was marie out on the icth day
led of November, 1793, or set back two yxars so as
'to to bring it to that time ; and further the name of
rm Pardon Starks to that deed was a fictitious name-,
the there being no such pcrton there. To this I make
at voluntary oath. 1 liOMAS KELLY,
rfe, 19th July, 1797-
day On the 19th July, 1797. came personally before
irg, me, Thomas Kelly, the i'ubfcrdicr to the above af
:i to fidavit, and made foleitni oath that it contains noth
ing but rb» trirh. j
die, 'ttllkl/PHIMNSY, Justice of the Peace,
mfe On the 19th Ju y, 1797, came before me Jacob
un- Kibbj, a perlonby nvc well known and worthy of
lay, good credit, who on his solemn oath did fay, that
urg two cf the parties above-mentioned did make ap
for plication t\) him this deponent, some time in the
on- winter of 1796, to make them a deed for two thou
sand acres of land in the Otego patent, and pro
mised this deponent a fharc of the profits, on the
sale of said lands, for his sb doing ; and that they
th* niadeapplicationfeveral times for the fame purpo e,
ery which ftrviccs this deponent as often refufed, dc
,to- claril»; to them thut he had no right to lands, and
of coulddo tlo such thing ; which daring attempt oq
nef- thisdaponent's integrity he had related among his
Pa- friends several times, previous to malting this afh
lrn. davit. JACOB KIBBEY.
the Sworn before mey
del- ELIHIJ PHINNEY, Justice of the Peace,
f Aug. 3. IJW4VV -
This Day Published, #
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, cornsr of
Second and CKefnut ftrects,
Price 3-Btbs of a Dollar, Exc<
Observations on certain Documents
Contained i* No. V and VI of /
•f The History of the United States for Su .^
the year 1796," An
In which the charge or speculation against
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, As
Late SiiCmtTAßv of the is FULLY
REbUTED.
fT RITT RJV i?r HIMSELF.
This publication presents a conciJe statement u
of the base means pra&ifed by the Jacobins of the
United States to afpeife the characters of those T
p<#i sons who arc considered as hostile to their difor- S
garizinjr fchenles. It also contains the cor- I
refpondence -between Mr. Hamilton and McfiVs. I
Monroe, Muhknborgi} and Venab!e, on the sub- I
jedt of the documents aforefaid, and a fcrics of let- /
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt, }
that the connexion between him and Reynolds, g
was the rel'ult of a daring conspiracy ou the part 1
of the latter and his associates to extort money.
A discount of one third from the retail price ]
will be made in favor ot wholcfale purchasers, for ]
cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr YofNO.
AuvuQ 25. 4
~ ~ ,No. 188.
DiJlriL 7 of Pennsylvania, to wit :
jS E 11' REMEMBERED, that on the
( L * s / J3 twenty sixth day of July, in thetwen- __
ty second year of the independence of the United
States of America, John Fbnno, of the said dif
trid,hath depofitedin this office the title of a book,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit :
41 Observations on certain documents contained -r
" in No. V. and VI. of " The History of the Unit
" ed States for the year 1796," in which the charge atl
" of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, late en
44 Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted— f c ,
" Written by himftlf" nc
In conformity to rhe a& of the Congrcfs of th« w:
Ucited States, entituled, "An a& for the encour
agement of learning, by securing the copies of n f
maps, charts and books to the authors atirf propri- jy
etors of such copies, during th« times therein men- ac
dotted." ae
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk tf the Dijlrift of Pennfyhania. in
July_»7j bt
The Inhabitants of the c u
of Southwark,
ft RE informed that a Coachee is provided, to b»
Xj- kept at the Conftablet' office, the north eafl
c»rner of Front and Almond flrects, where the ~
friends of those sick pcrfons who defireto be re
moved to the City Hospital, arc requelled to make
application—Also, a Hearse will be kept in readi- Ji
nel's for the removal of the dead.
"JONATHAN PENROSE.
N. B.— rha Poor, who wifli to remove to the
. Tenti on Schuylkill, may be furni&ed with orders
. by applying as ah»vc. Aug. 1?
William Blackburn, •
t LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE *
No. 64 south Second*£reet.
, nriCKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which 6
1 X commenced drawing the 39th May, FOR fl
1 SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor-
I tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ac- f
■ ceunt of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of i
f four thousand dollars each, on the last day ot <3
) drawings '
Check Books kept for examination and regiiter
iog, in the Canal, No. 1, City of Waihington, No.
- 2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
t Also, tickets forfale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perkiomen Bridge lotteries, which will begin 1
drawing in the course of the fummcr. J
The business of a Broker in aH kinds of Stock, ;
r Bills, Notes, Lands, &c-Ice. tranfailed with the r
; utmost attention. J
June! '" &f a
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED, p
Dy ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co. (
No 40 South Second flreet,
rPrice 3 1 Cents J
v A View of the Cau/es and Confequen- !
ces of the prcfent War with France, i
Bv the Honorable Thomas Erskinz.
d May 15. f
" ST ATE TRIALS.
l ' Sold b W.Young, Bookseller, No. J», South Se
c" .. cond-ftreet,
i. The Pennsylvania State Trials,
, T the impeachment, trial, and accfuit
id al of Francis Hopkinfon, Judge of tbcCourt of
re admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
it, eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
m dollars.
4, W.Young has for sale, a general assortment of
of Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
ill ege, well aflorted, and entitled to the drawback if
ds sported. Jti'y 7 *
For Sale,
>ll- '
ve That will known place, called Vandkoriu's
he F'HIY,
le- 'Nefhaminy creek, iS miles from Phila
»i- ladelphia, on the New York poll road,
n- containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the
en premises are a large two llmv flone hotife occu
pied asatvern, and a good one story Hone kit
int chen, a large frame liable with agoodthrefliing
" n floor, and lorne out buildings —also a well of
a " good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a moll elegant ftttiation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a visw of the Nelham
-IV* ipy to its u'iih the Delaware,.and thence
II aerol's to the Jertcy (bore. It has the privilege
' u of ore half the toll received from the bridge.
'i r For terms apply to the SaWcriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
n , v Vav aa-
COLUMBIA HOUSE
'of Boarding School for young Ladies,
me, -8./rRS. GIiOOMBIUDGE with much pleaf
ake XVx ureand refpe*lf, ret;irr»s her iincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement,
(lie has received during four years residence in
ore Philadelphia ; and aifures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
,t ' l " school, Ihe has made a fiipcnor arranirement for
the more convenient acconnnod'tion of her
scholars.—Every branch of nfefi:l and polita
ccb education is particularly atl ended to bv Mrs.
I. of Groombridge and masters .-xceTHrg in their
, at refpcJive profirffioris.
X Corner 0 f Sp uc£ and Eleventh Streets.
iot- Jnni-sth, 1797- Jlmfrf'
irH The fituatiwi is pcrfe-fl!; n altliy ; audmade
t l le more agreeable by an extenuve garden and lot
hey of gfimd. adjoining rhe house.
° d J' j'lijl Published,
and And to be had of Messrs. Dotfon, Campbell,Rice,
on Ca'Fy, and tlic other pricipal Bookleliers in tSe
his city .price one dollar, twinty-five cents,in b.oards,
ifli- New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
Bv BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
June ao.
Rofs Sff Sinifon, fl
HAVE FOR SAlffe
fHogfheads,
Excellent Coffee in < Tierces, and
C. Parrels.
A imall parcel of nice cocoa irt bags
* few puncheons Jamaica spirits, fourth pfoof
Superior Tenenffee wine, old and in Madeira pipe*
An invoice of jewellery and hosiery to be fold by
the package
A few hampers oi heft En.,li(h cheese,
Tuly , dtf.
The Subscriber has for Sa/e,
A large assortment ®f India Muslins,
coarse and fine
Tndja Calicoes
Sooty Ronialls
B'ue Cloths and Checks
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irlfti Linens and Sheetings, well
affortbd
A box of Diapers
Silk Umbrellas
Two boxes ©f fine Spices, cotaining Nutmeg^
Mace and Cloves
Black Pepper of fifft quality
East India Ginger
Java Sugar
A quantity of Madeirtf Wine
Ditto of Gin
Roll Brimstone
Mordecai Lewis.
s4u%f/l it. ."Vawtm
Higgins' Specific
FOR TUB
PREVENTION AND CURE OF THE
YELLOW FEVER.
EVER since this difeale made such ravages in this
i city and New-York, the author has turned his
attention to its caufet and cure.—The relult of his
enquiries has convinced him that the reason why so
few persons recover from its attacks, are from it»
not being well underload, and the consequent
wrong method taken to cure it. He is persuaded
that the exceflive bleedigns and mercurial reatment
of the Faculty is highly injurious, and that the on
ly rational mode of treatment is hy the use of proper
acids. Convinced of this he offers his Specific as a
certain remedy, if ufeJ according to the dirc&ions.
To be had in bottles, at one dollar each, of the
inventor Geo. Higgins, Cherry street, two doors a
bove Ninth street, (late manager of Jackson and
Go's Medicine Warrhoufe, I.ondsn); by J. Le
blanc,No. a»6 ; ' Griffith, No. 177, T. Pearte, No.
»I, South Third street, T. Stiff, No. 55, New flreet,
near Vine street, and J. Gain, No. 36, Race street.
Aug. 15. tuthß jt
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Jull received, by Wsj. Griffiths,No.l77,South
Second-ftreel, a frefli supply of
Genuine Balsam of Honey,
j \ Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hill
JTx. (who knowledge as a Botanist procured hint
the appellation of the Linnaeus of Britain) and is
•onftdercd in England as a certain cure forthe above
complaints; it is also of Angular efficacy in the
'• Hooping Cough,
It may also be had retail of W. A. Stokes, No.
!» 61, South Second-street, and T. Stiff, ss, New
t. ftrtet, inbottlesat 7J cents each.
Wm. Griffiths having observed the happy e£-
fe<ft of the medicine, (several cases of cures hav
'f ing come within his own knowledge) and the great
it demand '.for it has induced him to order a large
supply, a part of which he has just received.
■- Augujt 3. xawjw
30 Dollars Reward.
" TJ AN away on Satu*day last, two indcntedSer-
vants,Gifford Dally, a mulatto boy about 17
"* years of age, a Aim light built aelive fellow, can
e read and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
has a heavy countenance ; had on a fuftian coatee
and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine {hoes &c.
Allan Heltons, a black man, about 24 years ps
age, five fccj seven or eight inches high,a thick set
C clu."nfy built follow, particularly about the breech;
hatfon a sailor's blue jack?t lined with fwanikin,
dark fcriped veil, fuftian trowfers high crowned
hat, coarse (hoes, &c.; each of them had several
shirts and several other cloathes with them. Thir
ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or 15 dol
lars for each, and reason able charges, oh delivering
them at No. 54, North Third-street.
The black fellow is about a year from Lewis
Town, in the Comity of Sussex, state of Dela
__ ware, and has taken the boy with him.
July 31. tntu&fyw
e- To be SOLD or RENTED,
A LARGE 3 Story Briek House, on the
South fide of Filbert street, between
lC " Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied as the Sur
vcvor General's Office.
n " The"Building is 36 feet front and 35 feet de«p,
' 3 the lot 110 feet deep, withihe privilege of a nine
o j feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
k _ the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
il to turn in. The House is m>t 'Raftered, and
may he turned either into one, or two "dwelling
Houses. It is fuitab'e for a large ManufjiSory,
or would make a good Tavern. Immediate
■'s possession will be given.
Apply to No. ill, Chefnbt-Strjert.
la. /ng. 11. cod^t.
Muftcal Injlrument Manufactory,
No. 167, Arch-Street.
it- TTARPf.R,harpfichord,grand,portable gra*d,
r p. JIA fid :-toard, pier table and square plai.o tone
0 f maker from London, returns thanks to his friends
j n atiel the public, for their liberal encouragement,
,| e _ ard hopes tbat byhi»afii'juity and atreulicn toev
m. ery branch of his taiiinefc, toircrit acortiiiuanct
of their tavors. Piano fortes made on th« neWeil
and n-.oft approved pldus, wi:h prdals, patent,
fwcll, and French harp stop, which heflittets
hirafclf will ue found <«t tri.il by unpjejudiceJ
judges, to be equal if not iuperior to any import
ed, a»d twenty per cent theaper. Any inilru
* nunt purchased i,f him, i( not approved of in.
twelve months, he will exchange.
N. B. All kinds of Mttic.-l inflmroer.ts madt,
- S- uncd, and repaired with "the grtatt ft
ral- dispatch, ar.d on the moll real'ocaUe tefm , IIC
ac- readVn:oiley only.
eat Fcrtcj token in exchange.
eiR MAy »•-. ' kin-..
her Forty Dollars Reward.
for V) AN awjy from the I'iibl'criber 011 the fee'
b< r !\ or! d diy of this in!l. July, a Mulatto Man,
l't« named Will liowzer, about .forty years of age,
live feet l'even or eight inches high, rather
leir chunky made ; had on when he went away, 2
drab colored cloth coat, striped purple trowfers
'• and jacket. It is probable he will change hi*
f cloathes, as he took a number with him. The
ade faiil fellow formerly belonged to Mr. Charles
Hot Blake of this place ; and it is expetfled he hai
made towards Jones's Neck, in the Delaware
State. —Any person apprehending the fcid fel
low, ai)d securing him so that I can get him a-
L ' ce ' gain, shall receive the above reward if taken
tlle «ut of the countv, and 3'wenty Dollars if in
irds ' the county, and all reasonable charges if brol
ihe home. ,
a> JESSE REED,
' Qjaeen Ana's Couaty, Maryland.
it July 3-