of ti)c eh'tUttS} and -Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number i6i 7. j
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For DR r GOOD S.
r Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. $6,
M»«dny\ a / ourh
- ) Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. &5
South Front-street.
f Forenoon—John Connetly, Old Citr
Tnefd-v< Auction, No. 73 foyt'h Front-street.
■ j Afternoon William Shannon, No.
C. 18,7 High-street.
iVedxefday < A T r "° o "~ ?et " rftnfon > No - 74
( south Third-ftrcet.
Tburf/av $ Forenoon—Edward Fox.
X Afternoon—John Connelly.
Friday j Forenoon—William Shannon.
5 Afternoon-John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
United States, 1 ~
Pcnufylvama Dijlricl, s■"'
JN pursuance ol a writ to me direvJed from the
honorable Richakd I'iteks, Esq. Judge of the
l.)iftri6l Court of the United States in and for the
PenofylvaniaDiftria, will be exposed to PUBLIC
SALE, at the Cu(loni-houfe, in th; city of Phi
ladelphia, on Friday, the 17th inft. at Iz o'clock
at qooii,
2 hampers of Earthen Ware
J box of lndigp
r box of Merchandize
T half barrel do.
Jto bags of Coffee
I barrel of Salt Petrc
X barrels }
I kc-pf >■ of Linens
I trunk )
I barrel of Sugar
I bag of Pepper, and
» Part of 3 bags of Sugar
The ;aine having l>cen libelledagainft, prosecuted
»nd condemned forfeited, in the laid Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marjhal.
Marfial's Office,
ad November, ,170". S
United States, J ~
Peunfylvania Diftrid, y"'
IN pursuance of a writ to me directed from the
honorable Rich abd Piters, Esq. Judge of the
Diftriift Court of the United States, in and for the
Pennsylvania Diftriift, will be exposed to PUBLIC
SAI.R, at the Cuflom house in the city of Phila
delphia, on Friday, the 17th inft. at i» o'clock,
at noon,
354 Silver Watches
30 gold Watches
500 Watch Keys
The fame having been libelled against, prosecuted
and condemned as forfeited, in the said Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Mnrlhal's Office, ?
ad November, 1797. 5
lo be Sold\ by Public Vendue,
On Monday, the 13th day of November next,
at 11 o'clock in the forenoon, at the .ate dwel
ling plantation of Alexander Porter,Efq.
tieccafed.in the Hundred and County ef New-
Caflle,
All the Stock of the f?.id Farm,
Confiding of ho'fes fit for draught br saddle,
eolts, far cattle, milch cows, calves, ftveral
yaii's of large and valuable oxen. Sheep and
a very large and fine breed ) and alio carts, har
rows, ploughs, and other farming uftnfils, to
gether with a variety of houfeiioid furniture.
The conditions of Sale will be made known,
at the time and place aforefaid.
Mary Porter, Admrx.
New Castle Hundred, State of >
Delaware, Ofl. io, 1797. )
0- All perlcns indebted to the eftatr of the
f*id Alexander Pcrter, are requeued to make
payment, and thnfe who have demands against
the fame, to produce them duly authenticated,
for settlement.
o<3. 30.
To be Hold at Public. Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private sale)
Fridays the tirlt of December next, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Cof
fee House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine
Hundred and Thirty Nine acres of LAND,
now or late in the County of Wafnington, and Com
monwealth of Pcnofylvania, and < n the waters of
Fiefh and Wheeling Creeks and Ten Mile Run.—
These Lands arc fertile and well timbered, and were
patentced early in 1787, except 3.700 acres or therea
bouts, which wei£ patented in 1798. One fourth
of the purchase money to be paid at the time of sale,
f or the residue a credit of one, two and three months,
will be given, on interest and good feiurity.
Oftober 6. 3awtS
(If not before disposed of at private sale)
/"\N Friday, the firlt day of December, at fix
State of New-York, between the northern bounds
15 Dollars Reward.
RAN-AW AY from the Subscriber, on the
inft. an apprentice I.ad, named JOSEI'H
JBARNET, by trade a paper-maker ; about 19
yeari of age,"five feet seven or eight inches high,
of a light complexion, ties his hair. Had on, and
took with him, ncaflor.hat, half worn, one browa
mixture cloth •ostec, new, one light do. half
-worn, one (Iriped velvet waidcoat, with blu»
cloth bachs, one do. with fuftian backs, and sun
dry other thin clothes. It is prob«ble he will chang#
his clothes, as be took a number with him.
Any psrfon apprehending faiii apprentice, and
iccniing him lo that I can gti him again, Q»all re
ceive the above reward, and reasonable charges if
brought home,
Lower IVterion township,
Montgomery county.
O&ober JO.
To Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter in ths City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or svithout Board—at No. 114, corner
of Sixth and Race afreets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. ' OA. 37.—dtf
Marshal.
3 awtS
PETER BECHTEL,
N I-—law jw.
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 14 , i 797
Wanted to Charter,
ikjOw one P ort * n **frp aQ an d
faft failing Vessel, of the bur
then ot 6 or 7.00 barrels. For terms, apply to
Benjamin Morgan, N.o. i?o, South Front llreet,
ROBERT ANDREWS,
or to
mruember 10.
Philip Nicklin £sf Co.
I HAVE FOR SALE,
At their Stores on Walnut street Wharf,
HavannahSugars, whitcandbrown
25 hhds. Jamaica do.
3000 pie ces of broad Nankeens
Imperial Tea, in quarterfeand eighth# of thefts
Quictrfilvcr in tubs
Madeira Wine in pipes and hogsheads
I'enerifFe Wine in pipe?
Old led Port Wme inhogfltead*
Sail Canvass, alTorted, No. I to 8
8 cases of Manchester Goods, confiding of Dimities >
Multisets, GinghamSjThickfetts.Corduroys, Bcc.
200 crates Queens' War*, afTortad
Nails, aflorted
Black quart Bottles
Yellow Ocr'e in caik«
A quantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, &c.
ICO quarter casks Gun Powder
Ibey have alfofor SALE or CHARTER,
HAMBURG PACKET,
Burthen 320 ton?-, coppered tc
the b'encfo and completely fitted.
TheJhlp MOLLY, burthen 340 tons, a
good vefftj, and completely fitted.
The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar*
rels, may be ready ior i'ea in a few day 9.
The whole of the above vcflels to be seen at
Walnut street Wharf. § nov IC.
For bale or Charter,
£"jiL-l The Snow
SMMj good hope,
Wi'l carry about nco barrels, and
is ready to take in a cargo. For terms
Pragers Iff Co.
No. ijt, South Secand-ftreet.
Who have for f.iW—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lilbon, and ifeneriffc wine.
November 7. dtf.
For Hamburgh,
WILMINGTON,
Captain Hilman ;
A Staunch, faft failing, Phi-
A. ladelphia. built venel, of
live oak and cedar, is now in complete order, and
will fail with all pofiible speed, having great part of
her cargo already engaged. For freight or pas
sage (having excellent accommodations) apply to
the captain on board, or to
Summer I Is? Br own.
Who have on hand,
Gonaives Cotton, Sugar, Mo
laltes, and a few thousand weight 0! excellent Cor
dage, including leveral Cables of
nnv, mher J. tuth&stf
1* or London,
THE SHIP
WILLIAM PENN>
Jjft James Jofiah, Majitr,
fail with 411 toftven
i*<- W lent expedition. For
Freight or Passage, apply to tie Captain, or to
yefe-& Robert Wain.
0&. 31
For London,
Daniel M'Pherfon, Majler.
TO fail with all convenient fnc:d—a cocfidera
blc part of h-jr cargo being alrcai'.y engaged.
For terms of Freight or PafT.ige, apply to
Ro/s Ess Sim/on.
Oil. 27.
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By (hip Edward, Iron) Madeira, and Betfry and
Peggy, fr«ai Oporto, in Pipes and Hoglheadt,
For fate by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFtRS FOR SAL*,
AMITY,
j-Utfr Four thousand barrel*burthen,
»*S«»siSe«aiKfesf2in excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo—about three years old.
LIKtWISV,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 barrels, ready also to receive a car
go—and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
iufl. landed from the above vefifeU at South ftrcCt
wharf.
For Charter,
THE SHIP
John Bulkley,
Samuel Volaas, Master.
I 'HIS vessel is built of live oak
•' 7:7 cedar, of about 30c 0
barrel* burthen, and ready to receive on board a
cargo.
Jeffe & Robert Wain.
$
Ofl. jr.
For Freight or Charter,
THE COOD BRIO
S U K E Y,
Isaac Vredesburg, Master ;
NOW lying at Clifford's wharf, am! in compltat
order to receive a cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain en board, or
John SLyriti,
No. 81, Areh-ftreet.
WHO HAS FOX SALE, \
2000 wt.of doublerefinedSaltpetn?
600 wt. of F F Gun Powder
300 barrels of Herfinijs
' 50 bushels of Timothy Seed
150 cafe?of Claret, fir I quality
And a qjymtity of Sherry Wine.
Sept, 19. <Jtf
By John Fenno,
No. 86, Sputh Wharves.
A Valuable Plantation,
OF upwards of One Hundred Acres of Land,
well watered, in a healthy situation, atoout
seven miles from this City ; tht buildings may be
made to accommodate a large family, nt a mode
rate expense, and pofleflion had in a few weeks.
Part ®f the purchase-money being paid, a rebutt
able credit will be allowed for the remainder.
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Atnfterdam and Hamburg, and forfale by
A large ajjertment of Jine French Cambrics,
Brown roll#
Black and whltelaces Tovs aflbrtcd in hoxe«
N 0 119 Cbejnut Street.
Five years old Madeira Wine,
OF the very fii il quality, in pip", hhds. aad
quarter cades, just lsijdr'; from the (hip Edward,
from Madeira, and for fs!». by
JOHN CRAIG,
No. 12, Dock-ftrcet.
WHO HAS FOR-CffiRTER,
CH ARL OTT £,
Burthen abont noo bal-relo,
• —S®* l juft hove <io\vr» and put in com
plete or<!er, and how ready (o receive Vcargo.
Alfa, Far SALE or CHARTER,
JaS L'ph US,
Burthen about jßoo barrels.
arvember 6,
t or Liverpool,
The Shij>
CLOTHIER,
Nathan iclD. Gardner, majter,
Y\7" ILL fail abuut the 's th
V V inft. Kor freight or paf
fagc apply to the Captain, at Vanuxcm's wharf,
or to
Nov. i
For Sale by the Sublcribers,
Prime Rice in whole and half tierces
Boiir deaux Brandy
Teneriffe Wine
Malajjh
Georgia end Carolina Indigo
Rtkiens Duck antji one Logfiead of pai'it
brujbes.
N. (!s* J. Frazer.
No- 95> Horitb Front Street.
dim
Nov. y
Drawing & l'aintmg Academy,
No. 63, Walaut-Creet.
JAMES COX,
R.ESI'KCTFUI.I.Y informs his frjefidsjuid the
generous public, that his academy opens this
day. November the 6th.
Hours ot tuition for ladies, from 1 till 4 in the
afternoon, and in Ihe evening from 6 till 8 for
gentlemen.
J. Cox has added to his collection of copies a va
riety of fine views, &c drawn from nature during
his absence from the city:
All kinds of colours prepared, »nd every article
used ifi the different branches of drawing and
pointing, fold on reafonabje terms.
Terms of Tuition, Six Dnllart mi a half per
quarter.
A morning class for grown bdies, frrom tl till
12 o'clock. djt it*v. 6. v
James Richard Smith,
TAKE the liberty of informing their friends
and the public, that they have removed their
flore to No. J4, Soutt Frtntjlrret, »ext d«or to Ed
ward Fox's AuiSHon Room, where they have at
this time for sale, a large and general aflortqient »f
European & Ea/l India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in th« Clothier,
Wil)i»m Penn, &c. ic.
o<fl. «7
St. Croix Sugar & Rum,
JOHN NIXON W Co.
OA. afi
Samuel Pleafants cis Sons,
No.' 74, SWA Secondjlreet,
HAVE rrceivcd a Supply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they arc now opening for falc, on
reasonable terms. • OA 17.—4 w
Philadelphia, 08. 24th, 1797.
ALL f-erfons desirous to contrail to farniOi
tions and Quarter Master's Stores, during tht
year 1798, for the troops in Philadelphia, Fort
Mifflin, on Mud llland, Carlisle ana Reading, or
any of them, are deliredto deliver their proposals,
under a sealed cover, on or before the icth No
vember next, to
. . TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
The Rations to tonfijl of
J pound Flour or Bread
I pound Beef, or 3 4 of a pound of Pork
1 pllßum, Brandy or Whiskey
a li> C "J*© every hundred ration
All Persons who are indebted to
the estate of William Heysiiam, fen. of Phila
delphia, deceased, ar« resetted to make fpcedy
payment; and rhofe who have any demands a
gainst said eftate,will plcafc to prefeufc. them, pro
perly .«ittefted» to the fuhferibers.
William Heyfham, 1 ,
Robert Heyjham. > Executors.
Francis Bowes Svyre, J
November 6.
To be Sold,
Enquire of the Printer,
november 3
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the cjty—for which a generous
ent will be given; to be taken for a year, or 041
afe for a longer terra. Inquire of »lu Pripter.
Oift. 17. tots
B. y J. BOHLEN,
Coffee n»ilU
.^awtf,
JAMES OL.DDEN,
No. 4'[, N. Front-ftrcet
&iftigthN
2 aw
mwftf
T?OR S ALE, the unexpired me (four y ears)
J? of ajiout, healthy, a&i.ve egro Man. He
is by trade a Cooper, was brought up when a hoy
to the farming bufincfa, is a good ploughman, un
derftandsthe care and management of horses, and
is a good driver He has lately been employed in
painting a new hpufe a*d paints well—he is good
tempered, and believed to be very honeit, fold part
ly i"or want of em ploy, but more' for being addi&-
ed to liquor —For terms apply to No. 11, Dock
11 reet, nc-ar Spruce street.
wSrthtf
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
"pKIJ Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
& at the corner oi Second and Arch Streets,'in
Puiladclphia, i Vit y Tiufiay', TLttfiJay, and Satur
at 3 o'clock, in the n oruing ; arrives at Do
ver the firlt day, at Stiowhill th<t second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning ot the fourth day ihe pafTengejrs find
a 1 -ie and comfortable jacket to convey thera to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton fctry,
every Tueld.y, I'hurf-Uy and Saturday, and the
Stage ftartH Iroiji this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Monday, Wednesday and Friday; putsup at Snow
Hill thefWft night, at Dover the ad night,and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Ihe distance on this routt, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, ie So niiles leis than on any ft-age route
between thofc places.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietor*
wdlingly engage to return the whele fare to any
paffjiiger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a frage for the fain*
diftanee, so good a road in America.
Anguft 11,
The Philadelphia, jftjion, and 7 uclerlvn
MAIL STAGE.
r HE proprietors beg leave to inform the public, that
i they have efablifheA a Slag* between Philadelphia,
Atjion, Batffo, Hampton, Speedwell, and Martha Fur
aac*, Wading River fitting mill, and the town of Tuck
erton, in New-ferfcy, to gu once a week, art provi
ded -u ith £ovJ frorfes, a comfort* de carriage, and a care
ful driver, for the conveyance <f the mail, pajergertj and
goods. The Stave mill fart every Thursday, at I©
o c.ock, A. M. pr»m JVf r. Dcrniel,Cooper't Ferry , and
lodge thai night at Jo.-i iodine's, at Longer Coming ; and
on on Friday, at 6 ol clock, P. M. arrive at Cileb 2s
ini.u's, ink teper, in Tucker ton, dtfant K Jrom the city 54
miles, (from tic Atlantic 6, and from the Eaf Groufng
/'/. tins 7 rules) where arc goad accommodation for tra
vellers, and ibhere are commodious and fafe pajfage boats
provided to convey p*Jp»g f rs to Capt. William IVar
ringid 's bvtfe, on Tucker s If and, adjoirin> ng the At
lantic, rvhere are g.rd acammoaaticns, and a convenient
place to hat he ; the sportsman who wijhet to rcg.-.le himfolf
•with fitting andfjhing, may at this place be highlygra
tifed, there 'o.>»g at aim off every season of the year fowl
andf/h in abundance.— The Stage on its return,farts
from the afarefad C. Evans's in Tuckertou, every Tuef
*ay, at 6 o'clock, A. M. breakfafs at John Bodine's, at
Wading River Bridge, lodge that night at Longacoyting,
and at 1 o'clock, P % As. on IVednefday, arrive at the
aforefaid Cooper s Ferry. It is presumed that no route of
an equal difance -will be less expenftve, or fumifh the tra
veller with a greater variety of amusement, as he will
not only have a pleasant fail to the atlanttc from JTueltr
ton, but have the euriofity of feeing on the road thither a
number of capital furnaces and forges, and one fitting
mill, in complete order, and at work ; gentlemen too, who
| are owners, or factors, of any of the aforefaid iron works,
are foliated to encourage and support this sage (by which
they canbefo well accommodated) the continuance of which
will much depend on Heir aid. The rates of pjffengers
and baggage are as fallows : For a pafftnger from tie
afoj efaid Daniel Cooper s Ferry to Tuckerton, including
14 lb. of baggage, Two Dollars ; for way faffengers
per mile, Four Cents—lso lb. of baggage equal to a paf
fengtr. Pof age of letters, newspapers % tfe. will be
agreeably to law.
N. B. The mail crosses from the Old Ferry.
THOMAS IVARDLE & Co.
o#.j.— 2 awtf
Tucker ten, Sept. 28.
REMOVAL.
Maurice Moynihan,
INFORMS bib friends and the public, that he
has removed his Store of China, Glals, Queens
Ware, and Dry Goods, from No. 81 North So
cond, to No. 71 North Stventh Street, north eafl:
corner of Cherry Alley, where he solicits the fa
vor of his former cu|t tuners.
N. I). Cra**H put up witji «are at th« (bortsft
notice.
ftOVfßlhcT %
Ji \jl Pifbl'tfljcd, and now Stiling,
By BENJAMIN DAVIF.S,
At hii No 69, High-Street,
The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AND
ANNUAL REGISTERfortI-u NTT ED STATES
ro* THE YEAR 17g8 :
Containing complete and correii lifts of the Eiecu
tive, I qiiflativc and JuJiciary
DEPARTMENTS of GOVERNMENT,
And a variety of ufeful tables, nccefiary to be
known in every State of ths Union.
RvibtlliJbcH •with two havtfomc Enrrattings,
One of which is depictive of a melancholy fccne
that occurred during the American war.
Oit. 18.
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUNG,
No. ?a, Second-flreet, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large afTort
ment of Englijl t French, Latin and Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Alfa such elementary hooks
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Diftionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 ve. price 3 dols.
Ditto, large 11 mo price 1 dol. 75 cts.
Ditto, common, frice I dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Pasteboards,
(brattling and fclotti/ig Papers ; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, of
ths belt quality, used in the counting faoufe, or
public office.
Catalogues of a miscellaneous colle<3ion of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
hy inquiring as above. O.S. 34. —3awfi.w
All Persons,
INDEBTEI) to the Eftateof Josbph John
son, of Germantown, in the county of Phi
ladelphia, deeeafed, are dtfired to make imme
diate payment, and thole who have any demands
against iaid elbue, are deSred to bring forward
their accounts to either of the fubferibcrs.
ELIZABETH JOHNSON,")
JOHN JOHNSON, Jun. £ Adrainiftr's.
JOHN JOHNSON, }
Germantown, 10th mo. 27th, 1797*
Oft. 3 1 - ft.-jt.
A Negro Man.
Nov. &.
By THE subscribers, No. 21, Pe&i-ftreet,
iCargo of the Ship Ganges,
John commander, from Bengal,
_ Coxjijling of
Baftas, of various qualities & price#
CofTdca pftnjum Cloths
aanah* <3uzz y do.
Humhums Charconna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes MulmuU
Mamcodyj ChecSs
Maharagonges Patna Hhkfs.
Qmjrifamt Mul.nul do.
Guzzenas Bandannoss
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcoes Chopp.i Romab
•Salgatchys Sootjr do.
GilUe Romah Periians of various colourt
Mock Vuhcats 0
Of the Ganges arc now open and exposed to Ulc »i
that commodious (lore the north wtft corner of
Market and Fourth
dim. eotf.
landing,
From on board tlieJhip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
coiuni'injtr, ir<-m Loudon,
60 toas of the bed clean Russia
HEMP
6o raflc> o, bottled BROWN STOUT.
For sale by the iubfcrihera, No. 21, Pcnn-ftre'e:.
Wiilings & Francisi
oa. 31.
J aft arrived,
From Port-au-Prince, and for Sale b/the fukferi
bers, No. Penn-flreet,
6».1 hogfhead»,~\
(Prime Cofl'ee
646 bug* j
0«. tl
for sale; - *-
BT TH£ SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, firft quality, i-n
pipes
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pipei
Liiben WINE, in pipes
CLOVESand? f , . .
NUTMEGS i """'"tell importation, inboxtt
SpanifliWool, in Bales, suitable for Hattett.
Willings & Francis,
Penn-ftreet, No. ai.
toStfof
Nov. i,
N 0 1 I C E.
The holders of certificates of t
loan to tic exiled citizens of the State of South Ca
rolina and Georgia, under an a (ft of Congiefs 13d
July, 1781, are informed, that by lodging the fam#
with George Simpfon, Cafliier of the Bank of the
United States, they will be enabled to receive pay
ment of principal andintereft, asfoon as the certi.
ficates can be forwarded to Charleston for
ment, and ord«rs received for their discharge.
November J.
Of the Swedilh b.irque Guftavus Adolphus', from
MarfeHfes, consisting of the following articles,
is difchnrging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
sale by the fuhferibers *
BJIANDY, well flavored, of t, 3 & 4th proof
filaref, in hngftieads
Initio, incafci
I'rnntigniac Wine, in cases ef 30 bottles
Qlive Oil,l of a superior qtiality, la baikets of 4
and la bottles
Capers
Olives
Almonds
Dry Verdigreafe
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Sillc) of zß,.;jc and 32 inchea
Taffeties
Long and short white Kid Gloves for Women
Silk Stockings
Handkerchiefs, in imitation of Madraft
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Ostrich Feathers
Ribbons
Perfumery
Hair-Powder and Pomat*m
Manna in forts
Cream "Tartar.
September 47,
For Sale, by the Package,
For ca(h, or good notes at sixty or ninety days,
Book and Jaconet Muslins plain "1 '
stripes, and Checks j , .
do. do. Tamboured florted in
do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & | P ac *ages.
gentlemen's neck do. J
Jaconet ehint? muslin for home and the Weft
India market, Pnllicote and linen handktrchiefp,
for do. do printed do. do. common purple and
chint? Ihawls.
The above goods entitled to drawback on ex
portation. Also a few scotch cambricks and an
aflortment of muslin by the piece.
The whole of the above beiNg a consignment
from the manufiiSurers in Britain-
To be seen at William tilACKßU,*.n'g
Office, No. 64, South Sccend Street.
Npv. (J,
Clocks and Watches,
Of everv description, opening for Sale, br
EPHRAIM CLARK,
At his New Shop, Corner of
MARKET and \FRONT STREETS.
An extensive and general aflortment of
Tbols, Files, and Materials.
Clock Movements and Clock Dials, eight day
and thirty hours cail brass, forged work ind Pin.
ions, Bells and Hands, Cat Gut, screw and draw
Plates, Turkey Stones, Pumice, Emsry and Rot
ten Montr, Springs and Gtafles, Chains Keys, Soal»
&c, &c. Spring and (landing Clocks.
oa. 17
TENERIFFE WINE. -
LANDING at Walnut-flreet whar/, TENE
PIFFE WINE, of excellent quality, in pipes and
half pipes, for sal* hy , JAMES TAJfO.
Oct. to. ««tt
[Volume XII.
FOR SALE,
250 tons SUGAR
90,030 lb. PEPPER.
Willing! isf Francis:
The Piece Goods
Willings & Francis.
From Marseilles,
THE CARGO
BENJAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANI-iIEWS.
—A L so—
CONSISTING OF
10.
eotf
iawtf.
eetf...1 . tl
%ljt <lsa3Ctte» I
PHILADELPHIA, ,
T EVENING, NOVEMBER 14. f]
\ h
Fdr the Ga?,btte of the UNitED SYatk% h
I o
TO THE PUBLIC. - ti
f Concluded from Thurf lay's Gaz.) i:
Dr. Currie goes on to state the following n
gross tn.iCi eprefentation from popular report : o
" That his mind was elevated to a state h
of enthusiasm bordering on phrenzy, I had a
frequent opportunity of obftrving—and I ' g
IwVe heard from popular report, that in pas- a
sing through Ktnftngton one day with his a
black man on the feat of his chaise along (ide f
of him, he cried out with vodiTerjtioD,, ,1
u bleed and purge all Kensington ! drive on t
boy." r 1
As the Dr. has not given u» a single in- <
stance in proof of his afiertion of the ele- i
vation of Dr. Ruth's, mind " to a state of 1
enthusiasm bordering on phrenzy", I must i
be permitted to ioak upon it as the creature
ofhisowrt fertile imagination.
In many «of the vilits which Dr. Rufli ,
made to Kensington in the year, 1793, I ac- j
companied him. In one of those vilits, (in :
which I- Vvas with him,) he was requested
by a gentleman in Kensington to attend a
number of poor families in his neighbour
hood. The Dr. excused himfelf, 011 account .
fef his numerous engagements ; upon being :
urged .a second time to vifit'them, he requell- |
ed the gentleman to bleed and purge them 1
according to the printed direction* ; and j
added in a jocular manner, that he might
apply that advice to, the whole village—
There was nothing extravagant in the doc
tor's manner upon this occasion. I much
doubt if • the gentleman to whom the ad
vice was given, has any rccolleftiCn of
it ; nor would it ha»e ever been known, had
not Dr. R. upon his return to town men
tioned it to his pupils, by way of imprefling
upon them, the fimplicity«nd ujuftmiVity of
the practise which experience proved to be
proper 111 the Jilcafc.
Did.Dr. introducing thit, artd
other malevolent stories against Dr. Ra mean
to " determine die <jueili«n, whether, Dr.
R. is entitled or not, to the credit of the im
portant discoveries in the healing art, to
which he is said to lay claim, &£.' - Dr.
Currie has told the world iji his declaration
on the 20th of Oftober, that the " inviolable
regard" he Uad for truth, was his motive
for publishing his account of Dr. R's con
duct in 1.793— -and yet h ut aew days have
elapsed fiuce he told Dr. Mease " that he
recant to do Dt.R. no harm by it, but in
tended it only as news-paper fun."
Dr. Currie proceeds thus
" Dr. W. he said was an afTaffin) because
he exprelled fomc doubts of the superior ef
ficacy of mercurial purges to those »f a less
drallic kind.
" Tn his letter to Dr, Rodgers, after treat
ing theepiaions of all his fellow practitioners
with the most insulting contempt, and- de
claring that he believes himfelf the unwor
thy inftrumeiit in tbe hands of a kind pro
vidence 0/ recovering more than 99 of an
hundred patients, he adds, ".it was extreme
ly unfortunate that the new remedies were
ever connefted with.'my name," and that he
claimed, no other merit thiinthatot having
early adopted and extended a mode of treat
ing the dilorder which he,had learned from
■ tis firft preceptor in medicine Dr. Redman,
and which is strongly recommended by Hil
lary, MoMy, Mitchel, Kirby, and <nany
other writers on the fever.
" The doftor certainly intended to write
a romance, for there is no mention in any
of the authors he refers to of mercurial pur
ges, or of resting ths cure of the disease 011
copious bleeding and puVging, or that God
had blefted copious bleeding and purging in
their hands, as any person that can read may
fatisfy himfelf. Mofely indeed depends
rtiuch on copious bleeding in cases where the
inflammatory symptoms arc manifeft, but all
the reft inculcate sparing and the
most mild purges. The recolleftio'n of these
things were not to his purpose, hence the
- convenience of having a good memory
forgetting what would prove obstacles to our
fchrmes—AM good democrats acquire this
kind of memory."
I have Dr. Rush's authority to that
he ever used the epithet of a (Tallin in speak
ing of Dr. Wiftar. Upon reading Dr,
Wiftar's publication, Dr. R. expressed his
furprifeby quoting the following lines from
Shakespeare.
" This was the most unkingeft cut of all;
11 F or Brutus as you know was Csefar's angel."
The words were as exprcflive of ancient
friendfhip and esteem, as they were ofafup
pofed aft of unkindnef3. Dr. Rush means
to lay the that pafled be
' tween him and Dr. W. in 1793, before the
public in which it will appear that no in
jury was done, or intended to be done, to
Dr. W.
I have already noticed Dr. letter
to Dr. Rodgers. All that I have to fay up
on the extraft which Dr. C. has here intro
duced, is that he has evinced a considerable
ft,are of malevolence by notfnifhing the sen
tence ; which would ha.ve considerably al
tered the appearance of the paragraph which
he has animadverted on. _ _
• Dr. R. expressly fays, after mentioning
that he had early adopted and extended
a mode of treating the disorder, kc."—««ln
my firft address to the public, I acknowledg
ed that I received the firtt hints of the fafe
ty and efficacy of jalap and mercury in this
disorder in the military hospitals in the year
1777, '*■ &c. Any person less disposed to
misrepresent than Dr. C. appears to be,
would at once have perceived that Dr. R.
never meant to fay that he learnt the use of
mercurial purges from the gentlemen he lias
named.
I ftiall in this place re fume my obferva
tioos up"" f O " OW ' D ? paragraph in Dr.
Currie's pieee, refpefting blood-letting —
«He rtmensbsved to forget to mention.
that he adopted hisfangutiiary code slot from tt
Draco but from Mofely, who wan a mere em- ai
pir)c that praftifed in Jamaica ibme years ft
ago." ii
With what face does Dr. Currie dare to f]
speak of blood-letting in such opprobrious -
language, after telling the public, that he «'
Had lately drawn from 90 to 100 ounces r
of the " vital fluid" from two of his pa- e
tients in the yellow fever, at 9 and 11 bleed- fc
ings ? What epithet is bad enough for the f
man who dares to make lliefe observations e
on blood-letting after the tetms employed in c
hisfecond pamphlet torecommeiid it. Thefe f c
, are his words—p. 40.41. " Blood-letting 1
' general y afforded relief in all cases, when the t
• aftivity of the arterial fyiletn was evident } j
> and the head and epigastrium were as the ]
: fame time much iffeftm], ; and this opera- ]
, tion was found serviceable tuhcn repeated eve- I 1
1 ry Jtx or eight hours * for the firft 24 <k 36
hoursaftertheeftablifhmcnt of the paroxpr fm; j
- and in every fub/eijiicnt exacerbation so long
- as thqfe fymptonls continued in any eonlide
f rable degree. To those who condemn bleed- 1
t ing under such circumstances, we may fay ]
e with Sydenham, when,, speaking of the
plague, " they either did not! bleed early
1 ' enough, or too sparingly."
- j In calling so refpettable an-author as Dr.
a i Mofely, a " mere empirif"-—Dr. Currie un
i fortunately " remembered te forget'' (to
a use his favorite borrowed expressions)
w the terms which he has himfelf used in
t speaking of that gentleman's praftice ih the
r j yellow fever. " Blane and Jackfor. have
.. ! given a more accurate description of the
n ' disease ; but Mofely certainly underjlood its
d I nature und treatment better than either, though
t he may perhaps sometimes have carried his
_ plan too far for the constitutions of the ge
nerality of citizens."—Sge his 2d pamphlet,
h p. 60.—He has " remembered to forget"
I. that he has quoted him as an authority sin a
if letter signed by him and Dr. Cathralf, which
d appeared in the American Daily Adverjifer
i- of December 20th, 1793. He has " re
g- membered to forget," in bestowing theiepi
,f thet of cmpirit, his own entry into Philadel
e phia by handbills palled on the corners of
our streets, and other public places of our
d city. He has " remembered to forget"
n that Dr. Mofely flands high in his profeffion
in the city of London', and that he has op
1. posed those from whom he differed in his
o history and treatment of the yellow fever—
r. not anonytnoufly—but with his own name ;
n —scot in a viodiftive, malevolent style, but
le like a gentleman ; —not from a desire to find
■e fault, but from a desire of bringing truth to
1- light.
e Dr. Currie proceeds thus "He also, in
ic a most extraordinary manner, remembered
i- to forget the vißims that were falling by
the hands of his apoftlei, at the very time
that he was boasting of recovering more tftan
[e ninety-nine of a hundred,
f. " n To crown, all his extravagancies, he has
fs lately/threatened to prosecute Dr. Hodge
for ttllihg Dr. Way, on the second day of
t- his fever, that he thought he might recover
rs without any more bleeding. The cafe of
e- Dr. Way is briefly this :—He was atjack
r- ed on Sunday with the usual symptoms of
o- the prevailing fever; bled himfelf in the
in ffight,'about <2 ounces ; next day was bled
e- by advice of Dr. Rush three times ; took
re mercurial purges, which operated very co
le piously 5 011 Tuesday had an intermiflion ;
ig igat again bled once and purged several
L t- times. On Wednesday he tookT without
, m advice, eight grains of mercurius dulcis ;
n, had all aloHg since the attack observed the
fl. most abstemious and cooling regimen. By
,y whose direftion he was bled on Wednesday,
I do not know, for Dr. Ru(h did not vtit
ite him after dinner that day. The mercury
ny that he took of hi* own accord on
lr . day morning, brought on pain, fidknefs aid
on spasms in his-bowels, and otcafioned such
od extreme debility that he funk under it, and
in expired on Friday evening. The account
ay of the treatment till Wednesday morning,
ds- the writer had from Dr. Way himfelf.
he From this statement, I think Dr- Rush
all exempt from blame in the cafe of Dr. Way ;
he and that there are cases of high inflammation
;f e in which the patient sometimes recovers, un
he der the most herculean difcipliae, his most
inveterate enemies must acknowledge."
,ur This is certainly extraordinary language
tii» to come frpm a person who profefles such aip
" inviolable regard" for truth !—Dr. Cur
iat rie certainly " remembered to forget" whilst
k- writing the above, that in spite of himfelf he
)r, was obliged to become one of the apojlles of
(ii 6 Dr. Rush ! How many " viftims" fell by
)m his hands, I know not, but I will venture to
aflert that they were left numerous after he
began the use of calomel, jalap and the lan-
I." cet, than whilst he was prescribing bark and
■»t wine.
Ip- The narrative which Dr. Currie has given
ins of the ficksefs and death of Df. Way,
>e- is commenced with a falfehood. Dr.
he Rush did not threaten to prosecute Dr.
in- Hodge for " telling Dr. Way, on the 2d
to day of his fever, that he thought he might
recover without any more bleeding."—Dr.
ter Rush had heard from refpeftable authority,'
ip- that Dr. H. had said Dr. Way died in con
ro- fequencf of being bled too copiously by
>le Dr. R. The Dr. demanded, in a letter to
:n- Dr. H. whether be had propagated that ca
al- lumny. ITO this Dr. H. replied that he
ieh never interfered with the praftice of any phy
sician. This not being an answer to the
ng queflion proposed, Dr. R. wrote-a second
led letter to Dr. H.—to which the latter made
In no reply. I shall only notice further on this
!g- head—that after Dr. Way's death, Dr. H.
fe- called at his house and enquired of his black
his fjervafit (from whose own tnoUth 1 heard
:ar the faft) how often her master had been
to bled.
be, The black servant informed him, and he
R. left the house with the charitable ejaculation
of of " God damn his foul
las Dr. Currie supposes Dr. Way funk un
der the operation of eight grains of calomel.
'a- It appears extraordinary that hefhoulddare
)r. - :
* This was the praflice of that " mere em
3D, pirio" Dr. Mofely, in tic Wefl-Indies.
to In fill t the public with fucliagopinion, ;
after having iatclv given grains of the
fame medicine every two honts to a patient
in the fame disease and after having
spoken of this remedy in die following terms
—(fee his 2d pamphlet, p. 41, 42, 43,)
" In conjunction with blood-letting, mercu
rial purges were found more certain in their
effects and more ferweallc than any other
kind ; especially when exhibited in doses
from six to twelve grains, and repeated
every fix or eight hours, till a copious dis
charge by Itool took place ; and more efpe -
cially when their operation was promoted
by mild laxative enetr.as, administered three
or four hours after each dose of the mercurial
purge. Tliofe who have not had an op
portunity of obfeiving xhe good effects of this
pra&iee, will perhaps think it a very hazard
ous one." But he adds afterwards, " they
will change their sentiments ; for not wit L-
Jlanding "tne- [inflamed and irritable fta.te of
those parts, 'calomel, in large doses, palled
the pylorus, and oicnfioned less irritation till
it had reached the intestines, and was less
liable to be c'aft up, than any, other purga
tive."
With refpe&t to the following assertion,
Vvhich ought to have b<;en introduced upon
fubjeft of blood letting. I have already
{hewn that it is falfe. "Dr. Rush with
that precipitation for which he has always
been noted, instantly adopted the ptattice
in its utmost latitude, without reflecting
that difference of climate and cooftitution
made a difference in the disease." I (hull
that in all probability Dr. Currie
would be extremely happy if his precipita
tion in publiliing his account of Dr. Ruth's
conduft had not been greater than that
wliich Dr. R. employed i* the adoption of
blood letting.
I flwll now refrefh Dr. Currie's memory
with certain liittaoces of his extraordinary
■forgetfulnefs.
He has forgotten his obligations to Dii
Rush, for his early patronage of him when,
he had not a.friend in Philadelphia!
He baa forgotten, in calling Dr. Riifli's
medical character in question, the high opi
nion be once eifptflltd sos it in the following
dedication ofatreatife upon the "Autum
nal Remitting Fever" in the year 1789.
•• To Benj am i n Rush; M. D., Pro
feflbr of ),he Theory and Practice of Physic'
in the College of Philadelphia ; Censor of
the College <jf Phyficiaus, &c.—This Dif.
fertation is refpe&fully dedicated, as a tes
timony of the very exalted opinion which
the ailthor entertains of his amiable and en
gaging ifinnners, as a gentleman, and of
his dijljngu'jhid abilities in the several de
partments of fciepce, and ■especially in thai of
medicine•"
The Title of the Book
"°A Dissertation on the AutiJ#inal Re
mitting Fever. By -William Currie, Fellow
of the College of Physicians of Philadel
phia.
" Philadelphia : Printed by Peter Stew
art). 1789."
.'I Also, in-the following rxtraft from his
publication fri'the Federal Gazette of Sep
tember 21 i 793..
' " I know Dr. Rufh'-a liberality too well
to' fuppoie thjt any auimadveriions on hia
opinion*, whne truth is the objeft of en
quiry, can give him offence; especially
when they come from or\,e whose intentions
he knows to be well meant, vuho acknowled
ges him/elf under particular obligations It
him for pa/lfertiices, and still remains his, and
the public's mojl grateful and devoted servant,
W«. Currie."
He l\as forgotten the refpeftfill terms in
which he mentions hia riame in his treatise
on the of the United States ; and
how many extrads he has taken from Dr.
Rush's publications, to assist in filling up
that work ! He has forgotten the readi
ness with which Dr. Rufli forgave ,hi» abuse
of liinyn 1793, and the cheerfulnefs with
which he has met him in confutation ever
since !
He has forgotten .in composing his ac
count of Dr. R's conduft in 1795, all hit
own abfurdiiies, contradictions and falfe
hoods, by vyhich he di ft rafted the citizens
of Philadelphia!
Ht has forgotten the disgrace he has iu
curred by defining hit patients in the late e
pidemic, *rj4 .flc«lk'ng>from danger alter
nately in the country and behind a printing
press!
He has forgotten that his ideas upon the
fubje& of duelling were not always the
fame as they a#e at present, as has been
(hewn lately in the public prints ; it " af
fords (fays Dr. C. in his publication of the
20th October) Jq every reflecting mind the
strongest argument that he is deficient in com
mon sense, or that hit cause it unsound, and
will not bear a fair aad rational dfcujfion. In-
Itead, therefore, of being considered as a
maifh of cour&it, a challenge ought to be
considered a? a proof of guilt andthe challen
ger brandedwithinfamy." Accept then Dr.
C. these terms of your own, in reference to
the challenges you sent to Mr. Theodore
Willfon and to Dr. Fonlke.
In viewing Dr. Currie as the tool, and
ostensible author of the publication which
haibeen the fubjeft of these remarks,—his
mind may be regarded as a fink into which
a number of filthy dreams have flowed
which after 'l-aiikling and putrifjing for
four ycart* in his bosom, have at la it emit
ted a noxious vapour, offenfiAe to every bo
dy, but fatal tohimfelf alone.
I (hall conclude my teply to Dr. Curries
publication of (sth of Oftober, by re
marking, that the most interesting fpefta
cle I saw i« the year 1793, was my re
fpefted pftceptoY, in a scene of bulinefs and
distress for nine weeks, such as few men
probably were: ever engaged in. Living al
most withput sleep—intent chiefly in deve
loping the nature and'changes of the "fever,
and in attending to the poor : afßi&ed by
ffcknefo grief and calamity ; and yet under
all these circuipftances, firm, patient and
* The grcatrlt part of Dr. Currie's
publication was written in 1J93.
even cheerful. I hatt however, lived t<j
fee a fpe&acle of'a more interesting and af
fecting nature, viz : This fame man whilst
performing similar services to his fellow-cit
izens in the year 1797, insulted and tradu
ced with as much virulence, as if he had
been the author of our late calamity ; and
that too in one injiancc by a man whom he
never injured , and who owes more ts him
thqn to any*other man in Philadelphia.*
Dr. Currie, in his publication of the 20th
Oftober, although he profeffes truth to be
the objesi of his researches, fays, " no no
tice will be taken of any thing that comes
from the pen of any person but Dr. Rulh
himfelf on the present occasion.
He ought to have known long ago from
the silence with which Dr. Rush treated his
indecent observations upon his account of
the origin of the yellow fever of 1793, that
nothing be writes would command the no
tice of Dr. R. Truth however is the fame
ffom whatever source it comes, —He may
anfwetthefer'emarksornot as he thinks propef.
Had I not committed myfelfby my declaration
that his publication was falfe or .misrepre
sented, I would not have troubled the pub
lic with this reply to it. Dr C- cannot de
ny what has been advanced ; I therefore
leave it to the public to judge if my declar
ation was too harlh. Hereafter any pub
lication with Dr. Curries name to it will be
its own refutation. _
Dr. G. has attempted to be witty upon
me for wearing a Spencer ; I think it prob
able that Dr. Currie would efleem himfelf
happy if the peculiar cut of his Coat was the
only thing that now attrafted the attention
of the public. He has by his publication
set a mark upon himfelf. From this time
forward he must be viewed with horror and
contempt.
JOHN REDMAN COXE.
* This man vvhilft pra&ifmg in Chefler
county had a feverc fever, which in ail pro
bability would have terminated his exigence,
but for the exertions of Dr. Ru(h, who vi-
Jited him in the country, and by his prgx
feriptions preserved his life.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
MOM THE LONDON GAZETTE,, OF
September z.
Admiralty Office, September 2, 1797.
Captain Waller, of his Majesty's (hip Eme
rald, arrived here yesterday with difpat
chet from admiral Lord St. Vincent, to
Evan Nepean, Esq. Secretary of the
Admiralty, of which the following are
extra&s : .
Ville de Paris, ess Cadiz,
August 16, 1797.
i I R,
I Desire you will acquaint the lords
commissioners of the admiralty,' that I de*
tached rear-admiral Nelson, and the squa
dron named in the margin, with orders to
make an attempt upon the town of Santa
Crufc, in the island of Teneriffe, whiSh,
from a variety of intelligence, I conceived
was vulnerable. On Saturday', the 15th of
July, the Rear Admiral parted company,
and on Tuesday the 18th, the Ltander hav
ing joined from'Lifbon, I sent herafterthe
rear-admiral, under inflrucftions left by him.
The Emerald joined yefteHday, with the
inclosed di (patch and reports frop the rear
admiral ; and although the enterprize hat
not-succeeded, his Majesty's arms 'hive ac
quired a very great degree of lustre : Noth
ing frwn my pen can add to the eulogy the
rear-admiral'gives of the gallantry of the
officers and men employed under him. I
have greatly to lament the heavy loss the
country has sustained in the severe wouhd
of rear-admiral Nelson, and the death of
captain Bowen, lieutenant Gibfon, and the
other brave men who fell in this vigorous
and persevering a {fault. "
The moment the rear-admiral joins, it is
my intention to fend the Sea-Horse to Eng
land with him, the wound capt. Freemantle
has icceived in his arm also requiring change
of climate ; and I hbpe that' both of them
will live to render important services to their
king and country.
I am Sir,
Youi obedient humble servant.'
Theseus, off" Santa Crux, July. 27.
SfR,
In obedience to your orders to make a vi
gorous attack on the town of Santa Cruz in
the island of Teneriffe, I dire&ed from the
(hips under my command, one thoufakd men,
including' marines, to be prepared for land
ing, under the direction of captain Tron
bridge, of his majesty's (hip Culloden, and
captains Hood, Thompson, Fremantle,Bow
en, Miller, and Waller, who very handsome
ly volunteered their services, and although I
am under the painful neceflity of acquaint
ing you that we have not been able to suc
ceed in our attack, yet it is my duty to
Hate,- that I bclive more daiing intrepidity
never was ftiewn than by the captains, offi
cers and men you did me the honour to
place under my command. >
Inclosed I transmit you a lid of killed and
wounded ; and amongst the former it it
with the dtepeft forYow I have to place the :
name of captain Richard Bowen, of his ma
jesty's (hip Terp"ficortf,'th'an whom a more
enterprizing, able and gallant officer does
not grace his majesty's nav*af service ; and
with great regret I have to mention the loss
of lieutenant John Gibfon, commander of
the Fox cutter, and a great number of gal
lant officers and meil.
I have the honour to "be, &c.
Horatio Nelson.
Sir John Jet vis, K. B. &c. Iffc. &c.
Lift of Killed, Wounded, Drowned and
Miiliag, of his Majesty's Ships under
mentioned, in storming Santa Cruz, in
the Island of Tenetffff, on the night of
the 24th of July, 1797.
Thefeus—B fiamen, j marines; killed ;25
seamen wounded ; 34. seamen eui marines
drowned
CuHodoa—i fcansan, a marine?; fcLMci! j 12
seamen, 6 marines wounded ; 36 teamen,
and marines drowned. *
Zealous—3 seamen, 2 marines, killed; 12
seamen, 2 marines wounded ; 1 ditto
mifling.
Leander—l seaman, 5 marines, killed ; I
seaman, 4 marines wounded ; I do. mif
fing.
Seahorse—2 seamen killed jl3 seamen, 1
marine, -wounded.
Terpllchore—B seamen killed ; 9 seamen,
2 marines, wounded ; 4 seamen and ma
rinei mifiing.
Emerald— 5 seamen, 3 marines, killed ; 11
seamen wounded ; 10 seamen and ma
rines drowned.
Fox cutter—l 7 seamen and marines drown
ed.
Total, 28 seamen, 16 marines, killed; 90
seamen, 15 marines, wounded ; 99 sea
men and marines drowned ; 3 seamen and
marines, milling.
Officers killed.
Riehard Bowen, captain of the Terpsichore.
George Thorpe, firll lieutenant of ditto.
John Weatherhead, lieutenant of the The
seus.
William Fanfhaw, second lieutenant of the
Leander.
Raby Robinson, lieutenant of marines, of do.
Lieutenant Bafham, marines, of the Eme
rald.
Lieutenant John Gibfon, of the Fox cutter
drowned.
Officers wounded.
Rear-admiral Nelson, his right arm fliot off.
Captain Thompson, of the Leander, slightly.
Captain Freemantle, of the Seahorse, in the
arm.
Lieutenant J. Douglas, of ditto, in the
hand.
Mr. Waits, midftn'pman of the Zealous.
HORATIO NELSON.
/ PARIS, September 5.
Ex/raft of a letter from Mr. Refignan to Mr.
Wickham, Arnbajfador of England' to &<wif
zerland■
"You had yesterday the goodnel's to speak to
me of a letter which his Highness the Pnnce de
Conde wrote to M Imbert Colonies, principal
agent oT the King at Lyons, &c. &c.
The fame) to the Marqiiis it Mont effort,
Ncvrmter 1.
" I iecelv*J, Sir, your letter, which you did
me the honour ta write to me on the 31ft ult.; i
but I mud own that I hav« found it tao Jhort.
It confine) itfelfto referring me to Mr. Wick
ham, Ambaflador from England toSwitzerland
ta obtain from hira the letter from M. liubcrt
Colonies "
The fame,' to the Prime of Ctndt.
•' My loud, what I had fa much reason to ap--
prehend, has taken place i your royal highnef*
wiit recollect the various scenes which have been
played off at Mulheim in thii refpedl. But your
lord&ip could not have expe&ed that Mr. Wick
ham, after having told you that all was arrang
ed—after 1 had coiifenteil to lerve under the or
ders of Messrs Reay and de Chavennes, he saw
no inconvenience in feuding him to Lyots ;
that he had written to prepare the mindcofmen
for my reception ; your Lordlhip did not, 1 fay,
expert that this M. Wickham would afterward*
tell me that terror prevailed at Lyons, and' that
M. Imbert Colonic* and other* had been obliged
to secret themfelyes, Ac.
" But in every cri-.t, I dare to hope that your
highness will not leave me any longer without a
letter from M. Imbert Colonies, in order to put
me in pofieffion of the rnouey expended by me,
amounting livrss.*
* ft appears that M. Imbert Colonies cuse, at
Lyons, tkt treafurcr Of the king.
• - - -• - - .. 1."
ROSS fc? SIMSON,
HAft FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coffas, and
a quantity of Brngal COT TON
Bengal SUGAR, in tags and boxes
Jamaica,
S St. Vincent*, £ RUM.
and Bengal J
300 calks RICE, End
A parcel of Clip building RED CEDAR.
Oiii. a 7. §
' For Sale by the Subscriber,
1 White Plat ti lias
r Brown Hollands
White Sheetings
Dowlaffes
Silesia bordered Handkerchiefs
Striped Siamoufes
Black Ribbons, No. 3 and 4
. Glass Tumblers, and Looking Glafi'es, in
in cases, &c. &c.
George Pennoek.
novemier 6. eod3w
FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front ftreen,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Also, a general afiortment of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, confining of. Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and Urge work ; Bells, clock and watch Dials,
Springs, Hands,''"Glasses, Pu nice Stone, Emery,
Ilotten Stone, Cat Gut; bench, stand' anj' tail
3 Vices; Turns, Pliers,ChaiiN,Seals, Keys, Kc. &c.
* m * Apprentices Wanted,
novembef 3. ' firruif
i ~ NOTICL
' A lit. pel tons co'icernejj ar; here by. notified,
3 iV rhat the fyhfcrjlKr intends to rpply for:i re
ts- newal of the undermentioned lofl certificates of
. Stock in the Bank of the Uiiitcd^iatts— Hj: lor
e wanted them under cover of a letter to
John /»nflry,nf London, by the fTiip Bacchus, cant,
j George, which left this port <n June lait for Lcn.
den. But that (hip having heen captured on her
s paflage and fentto France, the above later and in
,f closure have failed >;■ their deftinatioti.
| Three err:i!>cate«, viz.
Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for
four (hares, dated January ill, and
iflued iri the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Highcrofs, Great Britaiii.
ZACCnEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia, iiovemhtr 8. iaWoVP
Teas of superior qiiality.
'1 8a chells line Hyson
»5-ch»fts ysung Hyson
% chests Imperial
5 For Sale, corner of Second and Pi?e Arret", ky
;« C. HAIC-HT.
HTvemtcrii* j.awW
St. VINCENT.Xi)C (Bnsett c*
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY rVKNtVG. Nnr-EMREIt r 4 .
DONAT I O NS
Received by the, Com nitjftonersjtnce the lajl pub
lication :
From the inhabitants of Earl township, Lan
caster county, additional, z barrels wheat
meal, and I jolb. ditto in a barrel, for
warded by Frederic Sieger and William
Smith. ,
Fiom the inhabitants of Charleftown town
ship, Lancaster county, additional, 7bbls.
buckwheat flour, 6 bbls. rye do. and 7
doHars in cash, forwarded by Matthias
Pennybecker.
From George Moore and Bernard Kart,
clerks of the High-street market, aquan
tity of meat and some vegetables, colleft
ed in said market. 4
From Nantmeal township, Chester county,
by the hands of Michael Graham, 2 cwt. J
I qr. 26 lb. wheat flour, 3cwt. 1 qr. 271b. •
rye do. i4cwt. 1 qr. 271b. buckwheat do.
From the Presbyterian congregation of Car- 1
lisle, by Do6i. Robert Davjdfon, dols. cts. '
130 40 j
From David Lapfley - . 20
Henry Helmuth . 20
By the hands of Thomas W'ftar - iij
From the inhabitants of Salisbury township
Lancaster county, additional, forwarded
by Daniel Buckley, 8 ciivt. t qr. 5 lb.
wheat flour, 14 cwt. rye do. 18 cwt. 1 qr..
II lb. buckwheat do.
From the inhabitants of Columbia, Lancas
ter county, additional, cash 86 dollars.
Frora the inhabitants of Hempfield town
ship, Lancaster county, by'Emanuel Rei
gart's waggon, 20 bbls. flour, manufaft
ured at John Swar's mill.
From the inhabitants of Manor township,
Lancaster county, 19 bbls. flour, colk<ft- '
cd at the following mills, viz. Christian
Haie's 12 bbls. Jacob Kaufman's j: bbls. 1
Abraham Miller's 1 bbl. Daniel Lindnei's 1
I bbl.—the two la(J donations forwarded i
by Paul Zantzingcr, the latter in David '
Correll's waggon. 1
From the inhabitants of Salisbury township, '
Lancaster county, additional, forwarded (
by Daniel Buckley in John Clemfon's '
; waggon, 724 lb. wheat flour and 183 lb. 1
buckwheat do. c
From the inhabitants of Earl township, Lan- *
caster county, a further donation of. 5 bis. v
wheat and rye flour, forwarded, byFFr- e
derick Seigcr. f
EDWARD GARRIGUES, See. v
«.. Nov. 14th. 1
"
CONGRESS. c
Fifry-one mferobers of the House of Re-
prefentatives took their feats—not being a
quorum, they adjourned till to-morrow.
Mr. Marsmali., one of the three extra w
envoys from the United States to France,
is Rated in a letter from Havre de Grace of
23d September, to have arrived at Am- < ~
fterdam. "In 2or 3 days he will arrive at 1 '
• Paris, together with Mr. Pinckney."
. —. &
" The cnnfticution of the ♦hird year" was the 31
rallying point of the triumvirate in France and 2.
yet the authors and fupportern of that conflitUtion th
are proscribed and banifhid.
The cenftituttpn prohibits the armies fisom deli
berating on political fuhjefls—and the Trinm- P e
vin attribute their/vecefs agiird the author* aind co
friends of the constitution to the deliberations tftht wi
armiei. an
The constitution declares the invioiAßiLif v of crl
the persons of th« .representatives,; apd .yet the i(
Triumviri have proscribed and hanilhcd upwards f
of fifty of the representatives of- the foveieig-n
people, -without trial. CX
There were thirty-fix Newspapers printed in Gi
Paris previous to the late political Tornado—Thir- q
ty-two were fupprelTed by tfce Triumvirs, and
the Printers proscribed and banished—sour cou- eOl
tinue to be puMifhed—all of which are Uid to be
edited by foreigners. By this it would appear that T>
the citizens of Paris ate oppolcd to the direiftory ma
in a ratio of more than eight to one. The truth j t ]
however can hardly be known .while the bayonet
continues to give law. ve '
The apathy with which tie puplt of France ap- "in
p»ar to view the recent ufurpationi, and the over- Pri
throw of the conflitution, fuffiaiently evinces the
horrid condition of the country. Handed, during Q
fix years, from one mad faction to another, —
from Marat to Robespierre, mil from Robefpierr*
to Rewbel, —ttripped of their pofTcffions by enor
mous requisitions, they folly realize that no change
of circumftaaces can deteriorate their condition.
The enthusiastic fervor which has led them thro' Bri
death and carnage, has evaporated, and left behind
the lees of tyifcry and dcfpaii*. Awakened from
their dreams of liberty and their fantaflic concep
tions of equality, they behold their religion taken Sch
from them, their privileges aboliflied, and their
property wrested from their hands. 11 Madness
has brought them to the-gates of Hell, —and there , .
has left them." Shi
for the GAZETTE of the UN/TED STATES.
Mr. Finno.
Your pnhlifhing the following British Review Bri
of a pamphlet, which well deserves the perusal Sch
of every ferioui and candid inquirer after religi- (
ous truth, will, 1 am confident be plcafing to f ror
many of your readers.
The dangerous and unfcriptural doftrines
which the author so ably refutes, are, it is tq
be feared, rapidly extending their malignant in
fluence among us ; and therefor* every truly
; valuable effort to check their progress, and ex
pose their fallacy, merits general attention. As
luch Dr. Wharton's publication has jufily been
eonfidcred by the reviewers, and being the pro
<hi£liOn of American pen, it will, 1 trust, , .
meet with as favorable a reception here, as it i!' 'g
has in Europe. Yours, Lor
A SUBSCRIBER. C
Philadelphia, Nov. Jf. 1797. the
< Phil
A short and Candid N
Into the proofs of Chnft's Divinity, in ivhich fcho
opinion concerning Chrijl Ban
is oceafionally confulered. In a Letter to a Ne«
Friend, by C. H. Whartok, D. D. and
Member of the PbilofopKcal Society of Phi
ladelphia. A
[ Philadelphia : Ormrod & Cnnrad. 1796.3
This pamphlet appears to have been writ- « ,
• ten and pubiifhed in the year 1791 ; but on l e%v
account of Dr. Priestley's arrival in' Ame- time
rica, and preaching the firft open an 3 avow- N(
* ed deface of the Unitarian system ever put
; licly delivered in that city, it is now re-pub-' "
w,th a preface, containing fnme re
| marks on that discourse. Dr. W. states the.'
serious alarm it had occasioned among " the
=4r P rofc{r ° r ' of th e ancient doarines refpeft
ing Jesus Christ, and ialvation thro' him,"
[pub- anc ' • , ft" ur es Dr. P. that however ready tliey
may be to facrifice theirprejudices torevealed 1
Lan- t ru tn» yet conceiving their only solid foun- 1
'heat a,1 . 0n ' f° r prefent.tranquility and future
for- r^ tri^u tion," to be, " the consolatory tenet
liam of atonement," they cannot yield d
up their present system of faith «to any •'
>wn- ''""g ftiort of unanswerable arguments, and
Dbls. 1 e m °ft luminous convidlion.' '
ld 7 1 ~D . r ,P' a flirts, "that Christianity, be- ra
:hias flde bein g proved to be true, must be Siewn 3
to be rattona'." But with Dr. W. the
lart, flm P ,e question is, « are these do'ariges
uan- commumc ated to us by divine revelation, or
left- are the .y not ? The reasonableness of this m
1 revelation is not to be proved or examined,
nty, oeeaufe revelation implies information of ut
:wt. J or " et hing > which reason cannot difcoyer ; no
7 ] b . , ancT therefore must bf different from all the j ei
do dedudions of reason." If christianity con
;ar. ; ta,n nothing but what lies within the reach P e
cts. ! of human reason, why was revelation at all lf
40 to man ? or why is it said to brbi ~
life and immortality to light ? Why does St-
Paul tell Timothy that great is the mystery fro
of godliness? Where was the need of.
hip Christ's laborious life, unparalleled fufFjr- L
led in Sf. and ignominioift death, to fanftion 0 .
lb. P lnl ons, to introduce a system of morals, !
qr., which reason alone could eftahlifh ? '
Having thus stated the question, and
:af- d^ avore d to shew that the mere reformation
of human morals could not be the grand
irn- n of Christianity, Dr. W. leads us to r 1
ei- enquiry on the ground of scripture and c l°i
a- an, ;q»ity. - mt
After the utmost, and apparently the PI"
ip, m °ft fmccre profeflioas of candor, and even I"' 1
ft- veneration for Dr. Prieftly'j charaaer as a ob j c
lan Philosopher and a man of letters, Dr. W. X
,Is. a <h«rt abftraa of the doarine of the Z"
i'i new_Teftament refptaing Christ, in a pro- has'
ed Rreluve ordec—lliewing that our Lord Jirft the
rid taught his diciplcs to conceive of him as a P r£ f
prophet, the promised messiah—and then mik
p, gradually led them on, to the higher parts *7]
ed of his charaaer, and to the fublimer truths gi '"
of Christianity, as they were able to bear his £'l
b. mftruaions. So the Apostles with like y
cantion and prudence began with the firß crue
n _ principles of Christianity, and led their con- , E
| g< verts on gradually to perfeaion. To this
■e- evidence Dr. W. subjoins the usual proofs '" va
from the Aas of the Apostles, and the Re-
of St. John, that the firft Chris- refoi
tians aauallr worfhtpped Jesus Christ. ! of v
la the next place Dr. W. appeals to the fnc n
early ecclesiastical writers, viz. Hegifippus, iu
t . Clemens Romauus, Ireneus, Ignatius, an >"
a Poly-carp, and Juftin Martyr ; particular- £, rod ,
Iy the latter : but the passages have been so
often cited that we forbear to copy them : Ung
. a we (hall however tranferibe a few remarka- colou
;> hie cxtraas from early Pagan writerg, which have
strongly corroborate the aflertion that Jcfu» the e
Christ wis worfhippfd by the firft believers. the 0
t 1. Pliny afferts,that, "the Christians met l"!'
before daylight to address therafelves in a tne p
form qf prayer to Christ, [so Dr. W. tranf. fcoloi
e lates carmenque Chrijli] ,a« to some God." pies,
d 2. Antoninus Pius, in an Edia diVeded to
n the Stares of Aiia, fays of the fame Chris- Ofl
tians, "It is more f or them to bo Fr . enc
J permuted and die for their Gad, than to mi,rc(:
i continue in life." 3. Lucian charges them h""' '
, with " rejeaing the Gods of the Greeks,
and, rvorfhipping only that deceiver who was
. crucified." 4. Porphyry confefles, that,
,1 " si nce Jesus (whom he tlfewhere calls the ! J
, dead God) has been worshipped, no one has
experienced public affiitance from the 'n . T
1 Gods." Lastly. Julian reproaches the '1
j Christians " for worshipping two Gods,
contrary to the exprefs command of Moses." f a
Upon the whole we consider this as a •!
Traa, which does honor to the author, and W \
may be very seasonable in Philadelphia. If P
it has any blemishes, they are such as ard
very uncommon among polemic writers, jrtiVfc ' S
—an excessive candour, and extravagant a 7 tCni
miration of the author's aritagonift, Dr.
Priestly. - L
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
PCjRT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Alt RIVED DA ? S T
Brig Liberty, Lillibridge, Havannali 18 ~ ,
Betsy, Forrefter, St. Augufline 1; 01
B<(»ver, Cook. Charlelton 8 n^° n >
Abigail, Smith, Portfmoiith -8 plifti tl
Sch. Dick, Lillibridge. Havannah 19
Npw-t~gri, Nov. 13.
arrived days
Ship Columbia, CoiJ:, Lisbon 84 A lift c
Swan, Woodham, Liverpool 55
Olive, Obrian, St. Domingo 40 uni^ei
Rachel, Ropes, St. Ul.es 69
Brig Apollo, Robinson, Savannah y
Sch. Nancy, Goodwin, Richmond 5
Capt. Blaek, of the ship Argus, failed L'Egali
from Cowes 22d Sept. in company with the nitn .
following American veflels :
Ellice, Hcrvey, for,New-York, turedj!
Sifters, for do. funk.
Fly, for Philadelphia, , La F
Lion, for Boston men, ca
Ceres, Richardson, for Virginia, and , A fti '
A brig for Nantucket. b'nt
Sept. 25, lat. 4c, long. 10, spoke the i. c pi
brig George, Carrol, of New-York, for captured
London, bound to Virginia. fliorc
Oa. 25, lat. 37, 30, long. 50, spoke
the ship Peggy, captain "Elliot, of and for n;n
Philadelphia, from Liverpool, out 4c days. ; f C r
Nov. 2, lat. 38, long. 71. spoke the A*bri{
schooner Eagle, of New-Bedford, captain fores an
Barnes, from St. Peterfburgh, bound to to
New-York. „ A br! '
■. Uore> ant
ST T f . to Falmo
f k" A.chal
ANY person having raw Silk of American or naval tloi
Furopean produce, may hear of a pur- sent to F:
chafer who will give a liberal pi ice for the fame. A cli
Application to be made at the store of Robbrt laden w
Lewis, jun. No. 70, Pine Street wharf, any ture( j i t
time before the lith of January next. . .
Nov. .8. *eo3t. A ch
ret • Jty this Hay's
es tbe.
« the NEW-YORK, November li.
fpeft
>im," NO PEACE.,
tliey I By the Argus arrived on Saturday -from
ealed (London, letter.-, arerec.-ived whic',
foun- A? return of Lord Malmeftiury tr'cm LiH '.
uture In some letters it is stated that his Lord
tenet P received (nlimiitioti from the French
yield directory, that, propofitibns m:>U- un,
an y their part were not arceddd to.
, and ' lc leave their territories in 48 hours.
The abruptness of fiis departure, war
. be- rants » s 'n believing the probability o/ftich
:ewn a meffan-e.
the The Argus left Cowes the 22d.
riges .
n > or J l ] a review of the warlike preparations
tlu'i Jftakmg by the court of Vienna, and the de
ned, iayattendingthedefiniti'vctreatywithFrUnce
-1 of we are inclined to believi; this latter event
, er . not so near at hand as has been before con
the jc&ured.
:on- In the treaty pending between the Era
:ach l'rance, it hqs been agreed, that
t a]l " Mantua was retained by the French, thit
r '"S ' ri P_ e J ,(, r was to be allowed the privilege
'Sv f ereaing another fortrefs, ou the new
:er y frontiers of his states.
qT/ rlr
ftr- '^^ rf 'oin s \n S ly favored hjl night with a
1o- ."'j paper of Nov. 7, containing the lat
als, f/' I' uropean advices to Sept. 21, received
thereby the/hip Ritfon, Capt. Sh are, in Jix I
en-, weeks jrom London.
ion „
and D , 1 °NDON, ii.
to 1 c >etter sent on Tutfday evening to the
j Mayor by Mr. Dandi>, whi -h we isfcrt
«il in yeftcrday'i Courier, k appears that it was I
in confequente of an mtimation from the Frem h
the Plenipotentiaries tliat Lord Malmefcury has thUi
fen quitttd Lisle without having accomplished "the
s a "bjetf ol his mifiiou " *
IV hither this be the clfe or not, and white
• ver mifttV!tv» deert ih<- of Ld. Malmef
bury joumeyt# France m> event that"
' a , ' ' aken pla<e tfle wtatM perlod of
irlt the Lit three years, hM-.totfeletlfo much tojHe
s aP P ets the sprits of tlie peopticpfevery Lh.fd', so
len much a< of our po' le nrguciator,
rts w 7"° ut h»ving Kiajfe peace wiUi a power, j- '
gatnft u'hicli, fad cxperi.nce lias taught ui, if 1
we continue to make war, iifpitatfe; utter ruin
[ " 5 ; to this country mult be the result. '(
ke Year after year has Mr. Pitt carried on this ]
rft cruel conflitf, in which some of the best htood 1 (
in- j Europe has unhappily been Ihed, though at .
lis 1 ?" e commencement of rajli campaign,, he has I
ifs lnvar ; abl y found himfelf in a worse situation I 1
that which preceded it. ' I c
e- And yet what is our
j r*fources? how are weto esrry on our schemes I
of warfare against a viiflorious nation, whose I
he «"crgy in arm? t|oes not seem to be aflefled by I
is, lts discords ? A debt insupportable iii f ,
i S> any country, an exhauOed treasury. taxes un I
r. P rot,u^'vc > manufaflures, decaying. But why I
■ mould we attempt to pourtray tbe wretched I
situation of this once flourilhing country ; Ere |
' s l«ng it will be presented by Me. Pitt himfelf in I
a- colours fufficiently liriking j far he will loon
h have tdUy beforethe public a Iketch at.least, <rf I
j f '■"e e*peines that mull necelTarily be incurred by I
s the contfnusnce of the war, and a lift of tbe new ™
taxes which he may deew it aectlTary to impose 1,1
on the irthabitants of this eountry, for I »s
a tne purpose of opposing w H*f, in the new ph'ra- I N
I- ftology of pariiamerit, ate-caHedFfench princi- Ifh
" pies. I
o I 01
f. Off the Lizard capt. Shore was boarded by a I
O r ~ r ' lw boat ■ treated politely and dif- I
0 miffed- In the channel spoke the IjipWafliing- '
ton, of and from Baltimore, buund to Amfter- j
dam—jo days out ; all well.
» NORFOLK, Nov. 8. La
' j I ' u l
AU profpecls of Peace done aivaj / I lat
- By London papen up to the 21ft Septem- I "»«
" ber. received by the Ritfo*, Capt. Shore, Ibo
; arrived at Hampton Roads on Monday I<k
last, and which we were kindly favored I t f i
* with, We are enabled to'lay -before the I fr'
f public the ckrtaintv oF Lord Malmef- jbo
bury being ordered out of France, and of J
1 bis arrival in London on the . 20th Sep- I
! tember—confequently I Vii
NO PEACE { [ I
Between France and England ; I C °,
But, we fear, another campaign of I
" Belm, hjrrida HeWi- 4 h J j
**,.'.Ul.'V, »/t.' ji ' J
LONDON, September 21. I }
Lord Malmefbury and his suite arrived at J i?
hn house in Spring Gardens fore- ,
noon, without having been able to accom- I
pli(h the obje# of his million. I w ?
I wla
LONDON, Sept. 16.
A lift of veffets belonging to the French republic I W .' V
capturciand destroyed ty the Britilh squad '
under ml command of fir John Borlafe Wn- ted
r< n, Bart, and K. B- between the 17th of July,
*797> a "d the 16th September following. jJuj!
Veffcls of War captured. 5?"
L'Egilite, Chaffee Maree, 58 tons, 8 gtin« and 20 f
men, captured Aug. a.?, '9?, at l'lfle Dieu. an °
Vcflelsof War destroyed. Ens
Le Calliope frijrate, 36 gum and 2jo men, cap- fomi
turiei July 17, '97, i n Hodierne Bay ; bilged and si.-st
funk. '
La Freedom. Ihjp, 300 tons, 8 guns and 47 , r '
men, captured July 17, '97- hurnt. aboi
A (hip corvette, »t guns and »oo men, captured pan)
Au g- '97,atSablc d'Olonns; onfliore & bilged, kept
A brig gun yeffel, guus and 70 then ; fupk. an J
Le Petit Dtable, cutter, 18. guns and 180 men, r ,
captured Aug. j 9 , '97, on the coast of Araffon ; , .
1.11 fliore, bilged, and fell over. ;i thltlj
Merchant"Vessels captured. klllci
La Thalia, (hip, from Nantz to Brest, laden
svith naval ft»res and captured lulv 1 - r> .
J)7 ; sent to Falmouth. '
A brig from Nanti to Brest. laden with naval
(tore» and provilions, captured July 17, '97 - f CD[ wi
I to Folmourh. ' j c
A brig, irom Nantz to Bred, laden sftth naval r
ftore-and pfi.viftons, capturedjnly 17, -ny ■ f tnt lea
to Falmouth. ' Mr.
A chaffe maree, from Naetz to -Breil, laden with his le
nival tlorcs pr«vi(ions, captured July 17 ' 2 sea
sent to Falirnuth. '
A cTiaffec maire, from Nantz, to Brest, "p"
laden with naval stores and provifioijs can
tured July 17, 1797 ; sent to Falmouth."
A chaffee maree, from Nantz to Brell,
w--h:.v,; f%ei^^p r ovf^,; s can-
M. Rtic, ,-nV:., nr.T-2 fmnj M ; . n ' t/ to
' ißreft ' V e " ' Wth «•<! nroviinns
captured Ju!y ,7 : 7( ;; ; f,nt to Falmouth,;
reus ti,' T lotte, chaiFee maree, from;
from laden with Wine and f
•« Ju,y ,s - "«■ is**!
„w4U ''» A " b "'r f,X,m ?ja >' onne to Bourdeaux, fe.
)d ,J.n with rosin aad naval (l 0r „, captured
ieSt Ft £* ' 797! fentto Falmouth.
d to" i 1 j " InreC ' f,om to Naptz,
-[\ t d^l TO o S ; <aptorfdA^ft
such t> Le Rc P ubllc a<ne, brig from Bayonne to
Bourdeaux and Nantz, 150 tons and 8 men •
laden with rosin and naval /tore,, captured■:
Aug. tg, 1797 • fonridered at fit, Septein-t
ber 1 ; the people saved. j
;de- . Oc Sardine I-raichc, brig, from Ba/onne -
nee w»»rt&fau* and Nantz, 150 tons and 8 J
vent m ™\ * W ' th rofin '» l «l "aval (lores, gap- 1
eon T 2 9' '797. foddered at Sea !
September 1, the j*<jpl e saved. J
Em xr A bn? from Ba y° nn e to Bourdeaux and '
that 75 tons and 5 men, laden with ro- J
thit ' inand ™ val <Wi, captured Aug. 29,'07, '
j" sent to Falmouth. '
new n L< j Dau P h,nc- ' hr 'g< from Bayonne to '
Bourdeaux and Ni<itz,2oo tons and 12 men, J
laden with timber for /hip building ; s ent to J
Falmouth. • '
/ / *- es Tm,s Soeurs, chaftee maree, from '
W \ y ° nnC t0 Bol, rfJeaux arid Nantz, 74 tons '
and 7 men, sent to Falmouth. 1
Merchant vessels destroyed. {
Le -» brig, from Nantz to Brest, 193 ■
tons and 14 men, laden with nival and ord-1,,
the nance (lores, captured July 17, 1797, f un k h
ert- in Tiodicrne Bay.
rM> j e tnr ' e » sloop, from Nantz to Bor- r,
h Z d « l,x ' 60 tons and 8 men, laden'rith tar 4
and empty caflcs, captured July }J , , 797 ; „
burnt in Hodierne Bay. , (/
lte . Le Fiddle, brig, from Nantz to Brest, *
icf- ijO tons and 12 men, laden with wine and /
k Jo ' r "* b " rn,i " <-
so L'Anne, cl)aQee roaree, from Bourdeaux "l
or. to
•" 7 ! r i r\v Pt ' lrcd J ui X 30, 1797 ; funk
if. olt .L-Ifle Dieu.
jiu La Marie Anne, Hoop, from L'Orient G
to Bourdeaux, 45 tons and 7 men, in bal- V
S lsbSp^° BWl l 3^ WiM - *
us I Pierre, sloop, from Rochfort to Brest, fp,
on I 75 t6n # and 8 men, laden with cord wood, a u
captured August 23, i 797i burnt at L'lfle tn
ur I Dieu. ;
•Mj (»ign«d) JOHN BORLASE WARREN.
in r Admiralty-office, Sept. 14, 1797.
n Co P7 of a "tter from vice-admiral Kings- C L
iy I m, "» commander in chief of his majesty's /ftjf
ed ships and veffcls at Cork, to Evan Nepean, fu,
f e I cfq. dated on board the Penguin sloop, is
in in Cork harbour, the Bth Sept. 4 797. !rjl
5 S!R, ~
*y 11. 1 r avf 'I 16 konor to acquaint you, for „ m
w I the information of my lords commiflioners of zct
fe the admiralty, that the Fabius, French pri
"" I xT tefr ' °f 20 Buns8 uns a » d 140 men, out of to
a- j Nantes, is just hrooght in by -his- mai.fty's
'* Lw* Ranelagh's letter to me out
I 00 this fubjeft is inclosed. jf r
a I i bave the honor to be, &c. hitt
f. I ROBERT KINGSMILL.
'- Doris, off tlie Old Head of Kinfale, ~
1 S ,R > Sept. 8, 1797.
Since my lad, acquainting you of the T~
I capture ofthe Derepent, a Spanilh privateer
lugger, I beg leave to inform you, that in T1
lat. 46. deg. 40. min. N. long. 12 deg. W.
I I chafed and captured the Fabius, a fa- ibid
. mous privateer fliip, of Nantes, having 011 in t\
, board 16 fix-poundera and 4 twelve poun- lic
, I ders, with i 4 o«en. She had,6een out A T
J I ten days from Nantes, and had captured a to I<
; fniall Portuguese vessel onjy from Cork
. I bound to Lisbon.
I , I am, &c.
• , RANELAGH.
I Vice-Admiral Kingsmill, Cork. y
I 3 letter from Ca Ptain Thomas '
I Wolley, commander of his Majesty's ship jj
I Arethufa, to Evan Nepean, Esq. dated N
! Spithead, 13th Sept.
I I amtoacquaintyoti,thatonthe|2othAug. Tl)
| being in lat. 30 deg. 49 min. and long.
55 deg- 50 min. having in tow a (hip under "
Prussian colours faom Surinam, which I have Ctler '
I detained, her Dutch property,
we p'ereeived at day light, three fail to the
I windward of us, one of which,'deceived by
I our appearance bore down upon us, under 1
I French colours, to within half gun {hot,
I when (he began to fire, which she continu
ed for more than half an hour before attemp
ted to escape.. We were, however, fortu
nate enough to have so disabled he> in that '
time as to render her endeavours fruidefs.
On linking (he proved to be la Gaiete,
French Corvette,of 20 French 8 pounders,
and 186 men, commanded by M. Giiinee, A
Enfeignede vaifTeau. She is a very hand- Co
some (hip, and quite new, this b«ing her h n ii™
firft voyage. She left France in April M ccti C
for Cayenne, which Jaft place" {he tfailed from
about 4 weeks before we- fell in with her in com- ~~
pany with l'Efpoir a brig of 14guns, who SjlT
kept to the windward during the adWon,
and (lood away as fo*n as (he saw the fate 4t t
of the Gaiete. They had not taken any aflortn
thing I am sorry to have to add a lift of ,he seal
killed and wounded* lan ' l.
Return efthe killed and wounded on board Ten;
his majesty's (hip Arethufa,. in the a<3ioii Shen
with the Gaiete, French corvette, on the
20th August, 1797.; Affoi
1 seaman killed. j . .
Mr. W. D. V. Morton, captain's clerk loft \J\I «
his leg.
2 seamen wotinded.
Return of killedand wounded On board the
Gaiete, F. corvette, M. Guienee, Com- 100
mander. y
4 seamen killed. —8 ditto wounded 10 p
(Signed) T. WOLLEY. OA.
ipMth"
f ' to As V !
|;r 3nr ic "/*?• Rc'«sEr.L.
oii'tfi* ™><<*j''«Fr,^CMof
from s®°;. * 's«* - of
e and jJ* trAO Pi '•«**« Paris, ffleiis of " the fL
JUted *i»'J.>o *H«Ur«a. the Legflativep.owcr
llftf KttKitbe UHstJtle Executive Autho
jj j« 'y %
tuitd j £? 't v V ner ' p? " > "politician* to
ioJe.L- tntarubkjatefr, implanted m. the mi.
mtr < i '' r ' o f m, ]"<' u ' l ;« :ll to alarm every
'9ii ws yf , or f °f n ;>
w/4 " prcad of entotmchnett from the
ie to | "-vdmatc branch-s of Government. The•
men rf f err r>l to , s ah in/lance of its truth a
ured i " tho "ft""l ™beh might be quoted. The
tcin- : { J-W? aar y having a good arniy at its bad can
I tnfVJer theft accvfations by tiiio hundred thoii
anne f uar PP"'»ted arguments. Thus it Rands
ld 8 Jlrong at leaflftr the prefect, but without the
Cap- * r &fi>Pporff thefword, it would Jink in-
Sea It m f i l' l fi ° nd leconri the puppet and
plaything of the Council, or more properly tks
and ' ""'faMon would Jeixe as hereto
i ro- J Ore : to tnock-do-wn another.' Thus the Exc
'97, ™ , r \ when W"'"' »f th < "-"/ fan
, con/litutionalflrength for its own felf defence,
■ to ! m r s P- e f er ™"ff h the pbwir of the /word.
ten, Iy. tha ! » d °*< with success, faction
it to •V'*" bcco "i's "tajler of the laws. This
j has already happened again very lately, if the
rom ! arm " "°L, int erfered fn open contemb; of
;on» "nf Outio',. Thisplain truth flares our fad
twin the face, that the cnflitutior. si much
preferred by them to o:ir own is so iHy con/lrud
,« *&? F Z" cb ' 0r {! "y a ' c f" Wjfutted to
i f^that 'twill not answer. It goes in fad by
ink 7 ff]' CalUn force, and not by the
" 9a Jltdprinciples of it* machinery. In a word
'or ®*/ t? ™» at these qjatl philofhphert have talked
JO much to men about their rights, that they,
ar have quite overlooked their nature. Thus in the
11 ' ""balanced government of ancient Rome, they
eft l 'i° Ut iheir '' hett - y and tht commonwealth
aS D . the t F "" ch d » now, but when the Senate and
tftople dfage-.ed, there-was no way to proceed,
"fp° en, ploy thefwordof Pompey againjl that
°f C " ar '(tbeHoches endPMrgrrs o/F.ance)
* /• that whichfocver prevailed, it was JIM the
fwflrd of tie one or the other that was vißor.
7be conflict of opinions in refpeß to the po
•nt T r> °f re fP ea ™ Ranches of the French
•' LT ■,before quoted deprecates the event of
the Legtjlative body's being « reduced to'the
impotence of only enafting lawa," There
, ' fP° I '\he spirit of the Giles and the Galletins,
» » aud the profound flatefmen who ratify or refill
e treaties tn mob-meetings and by force of brick
jats. Cur Democrats have no idea of any other
power than oJingle ajembly, whofedefpotifm has
ever proved furious and wild, though Jhort li.
• ved. It u the known forerunner of oligar
y chy or monarchy. The fame French orator in.
» lifts that It ,s the duty of the Legislature. "to
n » lupenntend the execution of the laws." Asthi*
P> " also the duty of the DireSory, a fine founda
tnn is laid for anarchy and misrule, for the
contejt of one branch with another, and in sonfe
'f th ' °PP"I ,on and mafacre of the citi
l'r A l tbeunceajmg efforts of our Democrat* art
•I ;,i ' , " OUr ""una! Executive, fuck
wrid French principles as those before quo ted,
it ought to attraS the attention of American ha
ders. They ■ have already borne fame of their
bitter fruits tn France, and more are ripening.
' NO DEMOCRAT
Gardeners take notice !
c T™ fnbfcr^ her . living to Broad, and corner of
r 1 George streets, proposes movin e soon, and
i aT ' n ß* qusntity of excellent Cibbagesant; other
with a number of y»ung tree» in the
r ° u " d ' o<rc " ,ham PriT.itt Sale ; an«l if not
- fold before Saturday, the ißth m(l. nt' t o-clock
1 !"« i . on ' the y t * lrn wil ' be put up at Pub-
In. Vendue, on the premises.
t j Tlle and Garden i» 'o be let, and inune
d are possession given, for the rem of which apply
to John Luttlj, no. 40, nerth Sixth street.
JOHN COLI.IER,
nnemhr 14, » 3{
The Canal Lottery,
Will re-comnience drawing, on Lfenday
the 20th inft. , *
ROBERT BROOKE,
.. J Check Clerk.
Nov ' Tl - dt2o.
The OfEce of Secretary of State
, OF THR UNITED STATES, 1
removed to No. 13, South Fifth street, near
Chefnut street. , t y nov IQ _
India Goods,
CONSISTING OF
i Haurial Humhums
Tickices
Patna Chintz
Taffatirs
Punjum Cloths
Choppa Romal, Pulicat, Barhar and Ban
' danna Handkerchiefs
tor sale by
JoJhua Gilpin,
No. 149, South Front street,
WHERE MAY BE HAD
A few trunks of French Goods,
Consisting of plain and striped.Silk Hot. Um
brellas and K lbbonj. Also, a few hoxe, «!perm 8 -.
eeti Candles, aud a few barrels fmoaked Herring
! mvmler I 0" *eodSt "
Samuel 8c Miers Fiflier,
( ARE NOW OPEIfING,
4t their W'arehoufe, No. 37, Dock Street, a frefl.
aflortmer.t of Woolen and other go ol ; 9 , suitable to
the season, received by the late arrivals from E n ,
land. ' K *>"
Liftr-h a!fof ' r $ah >
Teniriffe /
and r" and quartercaiks*
Port Wines, j
Aflbrted queen's ware in crates, &c
,othw °- ***■ Jlw,„ wtw .
V\'ALKER &£ K.ENNEDY 1
No- 73' South Front Street,
havf for. salt,
ioo Hogftieads of prime Georgia Tobacco
also,
50 Piret of Bonrdeaux Brandy: *•
10 Pi]-es of old Pen Wine
°a< tavslfFbk SALE, I
A Team of live excellent Hcifes, | I
with a Wpp.jnn and Gears. 'The Horses are all
your.;.', JJrong, true to the draught, and eapablt j^ 0 _
of habhtij: as great a weight as nioft in tne coun- I T
try. The aßgon and Oears are Jtiong, and II
i.i o-Sod orilcr." Apu'vto RO3EKT ORIi"N, tion,
Wtlt To\vn, Cheller couiity, or CO appi
Thomas Pi/ber, » d y o
No. S. Second Street, Pliila elphia. .
«cd.,«r._ Tl
In -the Press, « dit
And speedily will be publi(l)t<l by William
Young, No. 52, Second, L»e corner of v
Chefnut gti-eet* Pea
A VIEW "I
Of the Science of Life ; T«
On the principles eftabliSied in tb« ekmentl, the
of Medicin* of the bte relcbrated P ar
JOHN BROWN, M. D. «
With an attempt to correA some important er- J
ror? of that work, and cases in Hluflration, chief
ly fe\-ilpd from the records of their pra£lice,.at
the General Hoi'pital at Calcutta, j, er ,
£r WilliiM Fates & Chas. MkCLE.m. new
To which i, fuhjoined, a Treatise on the aition I
of Mpr<;ury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the' cure of diftafes of iniiire<sl debility
And .idillertatinn onthe sources of Epiderriieand. «-
Pi fti!cr,t:aldife;ifes; inwhichisaitcfnptedtoprove
by a riunierominduilion of fails, that they ne- ! R
ver arise from contagion, but are always produ
fed certain slates, or certain vicissitudes of j
the atm ifp'iere, by Charles Maclsan, of acc
Clients*. wo
OiS. it. ' j
At the Federal Blast furnace, An
In Carvti —-for Slitting, Plntt:>'g, and Rolling
Mills.
SEYMOUR'S Paunt Rollers. (
THEIR fupcrisrity eoifijls in being free from Co
boles and bonty-combed plaeei, ii)kic/j are com- t^e
tmnlv. found in rollers tajl in jc.nd, <?r clay ; -.0
tf/ouUt. Tb'ft patent rollers are east in iron
m'Uilds, prev;onjly heated, and will be found to ■
ie more dense, folii and durable than any rollers
heretofore used. Another important advttnlase j un
tbty, have ever dthers, is> that the necks reqiare j || c]
no turning, but are imtrtcdaitely Jit for use, and
from their accuracy, ran itiitb less frißiuil, and <
require tefs water to make them perfarm their
<vspr&. 7 bey may be had by application hi the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen: Nathaniel Go»d m
win, or cf.MeJfrs. Thatcher and Hayward
Hojlon, /lug. 31. Sept. 19. § it-
This Day is Publilhed,
BY Mcft. Dob lon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
otbei Booksellers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Eltgant y printed on tVuW paper, and Hot•
P ri l cd > „ B ,
f By John Thompion,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF T
The Constitutions
of th« Xeveral S>.tes with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of caeh Conftitutioli, and
■ their most impsrtant provlfions,
u'Kter the several heads of administration ; with w
Notes ~
By WILLIAM SMITH, u ,
Of South Carolina, a
t 1.. D. arid itiember of the Congress of the e h
United States. . ti
Dedicated to tho Peojlo of th* United States. ai
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior pfc- U
pes, j-4thsof a dollaf.
February 6 mw £
City CommiJJioners' Office,
June 11, 1797-
IN pui fuance of an ordinance from the felea
and common councils, palled the 2id day of
Mav last, appointing the city cunimiflioners,
and their dutie!s, feflion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEKEBY GIVEN, 1
That the city is divided into five ditlri<£U,
each to be under tbe loperintendance of one of- ,
the tity eommiffioners, whoistobe mdividuilly
relponfibte for the cleanlirfefs of the fame, and ,
are as follow. ]
DfiftnA No. 1. From the south fide of Ce- (
dar-'ftreet, to the north fide of Spruce-llreet, u*i
rthe fuperiatendence of Nathan Boys.
2. From the north fide of Spruee-ftreet, to
ttanorth nek- of Walnut-flreet,under thefuper
intendence of Hugh Roberts.
- From the nosth fide of \Valnut to the south
fide of High-street, under the fupocintendcnce at
° Fre iruhe°ti or th fide of High-street, to the
north fide of Mulberry street, under tht fup«r
intendence ©f WllliTn Moulder.
, From the north fide of Mulberry street to
the north tide of Vine-street, under th. luper
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleanihgof High-street to be in emn«On.
A dated meeting of the city commifntm
trs is held at the Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock.
July M- eo " n
Stands for Draymen, &c.
THE following phses are fixed upon by the
said City CommUßoners for Stands tor
Dravmen and their llqrfes.
In Vine-street, eastward of Front-ftract, on
b °Saflafras, High.Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eailward Front-street, on the myth lideonly.
Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to
T Fmnt-ftreet, east fide from Vine-street to
from opposite to Black Horse al
lev to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Water-street, weft fide Yrom the north end of
or Moore's stores to Pine-ftrfet.
Pcnn-ftrect from Pine to Cedar-street, weft
Brawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South ltreets, east of i'rerr-t
- Walnut-street and the
fia; , Hone crossings, east fide, opposite George
°Second-ftreet, between Saffifras and Vine
ftr Vifth-ftrllt', I wft fide from ChrfTnut to Mul
bC Sa(lifr« S ftreet, from Third to Fo.rth-flrcet,
* 4 No d dray or horse to stand within ten feet of
FOR lIACKNET COACHES
Pinc-ftrect, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
ftr 4ffth-ftreet, between Chefnut and Walnut
ftr nranch-iV«=t ) north fide, betwocn Third and
Fourth fttcets. , mw s;fim
LAWBOOKS, ] 1
Latest London and Dublin Editions. 1 ort
H. P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Market llreet,
HAVE just received by the Ute arrivals from wh - {
London and Dublin, theii spring import A- Tick
tion, confiding ef a variety of the late ft and mod jj.ufli
approved law Books, which, added to those alrea- j^ aV(
dy on hand, forms the mollcxten'five colle&ioncv- g a g
er Offeredfor fa'e in this country. They theicfore , Hefi ;
beg leave to notice, that froi\i the nature o£ thfiir pi^p
conne&knsin Dublin, they are enabled to fell I rift) Enjp
editions (as they have hitherto dor.e) at the very Coha
lowcfl prices. The following are among the latent z
publications. , Fine
Vefey, juti*rs Reports in Char.cery, % Abo
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Runway's Reportt
in the tame of Lord Hardwicke ; b'loyer s Procters
Pra&ice in the Ecclesiastical Courts; Barton p yyj n
Treatise on a Suit in Equity ; Vidd's PraAice of
the Cofurt of King's Bench in Pcvfonal AdliOns, %
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Repyts, 11 vols. London edi- j ;
tion.
H. and P. Rice «cpe& tn rafsivc by the fir a ar- A
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of _
Durnfordand Kaft's Reports, the ad part of , Gil
bert's Law of Evidence bj Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 16.
The History of Pennlyfvania,
By ftOBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and will he publilhed,
with all convenient expedition, by ZrtCHA-
RtAH Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fuhferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed propcfals, until the
work is ready for the fubfcribcrs.
July 18. ' , »awtf atci
THIS DAY WAS PUBLISHED, ton
And for sale by THOMAS DOHSOX, at the has
Stone House, No. 41, south Second street, thr
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED. ,
Confiding of a variety of Mifeellaneous Pieces for _
theinftruAion and amusement of YOUNG PER
SONS— -xVolutacihandfonoely printedand bound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
I The variety and excellence of these pieces are
such, that the book Jcecds only to be known to be
j universally elleeified one of the moll valuable jtub
j llcationsth t can be put into the hands of young
p«rfons.
• k Delightful talk to rear thi tender thought,
To teack the young idea how to (hocjt, p
To pour tK« frelli inftruftion o'er the mina,
To breathe th" enlivening spirit.and to dx
The generous purpose in the glowing breast."
Thomson. ~
August 44. mwf4w J*
- THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, ''
By THOMAS DOASOff, at the Stone House, (e
No. 41, south Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Young Ladies, on improving and in
terefEing fubjedts.
Translated from the Dutch of Madame de Camion
with alterations and improvements, *
, Printed onfine paper, and neatly hound,
Price ono duliar.
j' AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, pamtiug
tales »f oxtraorditiary distress, or of desperate «r w
artful villainy, which " harrow Up the foul," a«d fa
which it woultj be for the honor of yo«ng ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward »o so- 0
licit notice,where,in a variety of incidents, not ck- ti
ceeding thfc bontids of 'rial lift, the proper, beeaufe n
C elegant and natural dignity and importance of'the Female p
eh at after is exhibited in an mterefting point cf vitw, f (
and prc.fcnts examples of real and attainable excel- p
- leer-.
The publisher was fomuch pleaftdwitU the pei«-
fal,that he was persuaded he should do a pleasing
- f«rvi«« to the Community by fending it who circu
lation. August 24—mw4w
Acl laying Duties on Stamped Vellum ■
Parchment and Paper. t
A FEW copies of the above aft may be had aj 1
' he Office of the Gazette of khe United States, N«. 1
119, Chefnut-ftreet. J"!y ig- f
». The Partnership,
° f ' j TNDER the firm of FREEMAN V Company, t
'y U i 9 dissolved by mutual consent. All persons 1
having any demands against tkefaid House are de- ,
fired to render the fume to T. B. Freeman ; and ]
t- those indebted to the House are desired to make pay- i
1- ment to him—By whom business will in future ba 1
carried on.at his Store, No. 39, South Front-street.
•° Au«u/l 7- cod^w
tr ' Richard and James Potter
th HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
at 45, South Fifth-ftreet.
A Uguft *. w&f6t
Lancatier, Harrijburgh Varli/le,
Sbippenjburg and Sunbury
II STAGES.
THE public are requested to take notice, that
the partnership which h*s for fomewme fub
m" fifted between Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
s h " William Geer, is nowdiflolved: but, not as M.
Slough infinuatesto the public without just cause ;
I as will more fully appear by a letter on the sub
- jest from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital of which is not now deni
ed neceflary. Auy gentleman who wilhes to be
more circumstantially informed of the mer*s of
this business, bj applying to W. Geer may have
' "f the perirfal of M. Slough's letter, and then can be
'°f at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfeiftly jttftifiabie in attaching him
the f e jf to an j other person in the prosecution of the
for Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place,
on Now from the liberal and generous support the
public were plcafed to confer on the firft'effort in
ets, this business, William Gefcr, in conjunction with
nly. Messrs. Reily, Weed ahd Witmer, is deternnoed
t to toprofecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
to lie can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
e a i. with carriages, horses, and every appurtensuee to
render the partage fafe ind commodious, inform
j e those wno wifli to patronize and encourage the I
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the' White Horle,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Mond*y
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaftcr, Harrifbnrg,
II Carlifie and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
efiabliihed. _
For the ftrther accommedation of the public',
'hf a staoe will ftaftevery Wednesday from the house
3r E e or Samuel Elder, i» Harriiburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
ifine and return from thence and arrive at Harnfbuig
every Saturday, so tbat pafTengers destined for
»lul- Lancaftcr or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon
days.
cet, WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 37, t-T)7-
£of N. B. This Line of Stages starts from th«
house of William Ferrac, in Lancaster, 011 ever?
?. Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
'ifth eecding to the westward; and Irom the houft of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harnfburg every Wednef-
Inut day mopn«lg, on the fame eve»:ng arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's ii? Shippenfburg, and returns
and from thence-on .every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily a» in its tour Lrom Philadcl-
n * phia. . raws
tnw&tim
Thomas Herman Ltuii-t.R.,
North fifth ftrc«, corner of North alley, No. 34, Andt
HAS FOR SALE,
EXCELLKN Tred BouHeaux Wine ill cafesand
boxes, fix years old J
White Graves Wine in calks
Tieltlenburgs " T1
Jlufli.j Sail Cloths
Raveps Duck ]n 3
Bag Linen
Hessians
Diaper ar.d Table Cloth Late
Empty 1-ags
Coramon German Cloth
alTqrtmetitof black coloured 1 Ribbons II
Fine German Laces
About twelve tons Ruflia clean Hemp Unit
Clover Seed P 6r ( c
Italian Soap, in fmaHboxes, for family of* gani:
Window Glass Aug 19 refp<
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
l)itto ditt ■ Claret in cases tcrs
Just received, and for Sale by * ovilti
' " Rum!L- Leech. that
Anr. at. : '' jawtf was
* ■ bf tl
Will be Landed, it
From onboard the ihip AAive, Capt.Blair,from
Hamhutghr Jt
20 bales white Uuflia clean Hemp _i
2 casks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leiffir,
North Fifth {lteet, No. ,?4- ■
Tunc26. s sty ft
TO BE SOLD,
And. immediate poflejjion give-n, t he
A Convenient well finilhed brick '1 enemcnt, WPt
with a cook house and other out houses, fitti* ■.
atcd.in a pleasant part of the borough of Wilming u
ton, in the State of Delaware— The lot of gfo»nd «i e
has forty feet front on Weft-flrcet, and extends « 0
through the square to Pasture-street, on which is <i g
erected a (table and carriage honfe. « \
ALLEN M'LANE. 1
Wilmington, Aug. 30. Cl
Imported in the Jhip Pigou, JJ*
And fer sale by John Morton, No. 116, South eto ,
Front-street, t ; 0I
Hyson
Htfiin Skin ( TEA g
Young Hyion C
1 Imperial j
April to. eotf y
For sale or jo be let on ground - ! an<
rent ' Tn'
Ai'vahtoble Lot of Ground ,'
SITUATE 011 the north'eift corner of VVal- M
nut and Fifth ftrcets, fronting the State- fid
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front T
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen cQ]
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there ase at - n
prefect twofmalltwo story brick houfej, and a
number of small teneqaents thereon.
Alft, for Sale, •*
Two three story Brick Houses
' With convenient (tores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saflalras
streets, containing in front on Water street fjl- r-|
ty-four f«t, and continuing that breadth eaft
® ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the |Sj
d south thirteen feet fix inches. Tbele houses . t ii
0 ave the convenience ot a public alley adjoining c«
)- on the north fide, and are a very desirable fitua- Id
c- tion for a merchant, flour faflor,or ottiers who di
b may have occasion for ftor&ge of goods. This
property will be ftld or. very reasonable terms in
v, forcaih. For futther inforqiailcn apply to the 2
I- ptintar. p
Jul/ 31. rnVwtf j,
"* TO BE SO L D, B
And paffejjion given immediately, u
A LARGE two (lory brick House, handsomely
fituatedin Princeton. There are four rooms -
" a nd a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings 51 feet in
U length, and a piazza of 57 feet. There is a pump
e. in the yard, an excelleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
"(tables, one of which is new, 44 feet \ong, with
flails in the two (tables for 2J horses. The heal
iy, thisefs and pleasantness ot its situation, and the 4
ins number of genteel and agreeable families in and
le- near the town, render it a desirable rctreeat for a
nd gentleman from the city. The commodioufnefs of
if- the house, its central portion, and the largenwfs of
be fch'ettables,make it ( every wuyfuitablcforataveru,for
et. which it has always been confiderd as a capital
(land. Inquirt op the premises, of I
' ISAAC SNQWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. 15. 19 —dtwiawtf
t_ City of YVaihingto*.
le, SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Fedetal City.
A magnificent dwellmg-boofe ao,ooo dollars,
:hat & cafti 30,000, are jo.oom
ub- 1 di«o & ca'K'i) 00 ® 40,00#
and 1 ditto ii v opO & ca(h ij.ooo 30,000
M. 1 ditto 10,000 Sc. cafti 10,000 10,000
ife ; 1 ditto 5,000 St ca(h 5,1100 10,000
rub- 1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
,9th i cafepcizeof " ro,ooo
em- t do. 5,000 4ach, are • 10,000
Jbe Is) (jp. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
sos 10 do. 'J»o - - »0,000
iave 00 do. it>o - - I0 ' 000
'l c aoo do. JO - • 10,000
. • 400 do. »5 " I0 ' 000
1,000 do. .0 - «,000
1 e.oc'Q do. 10 - 's*. 000
■ b
the 16 >73' Priies.
t in 13.»6i Blanh*.
ined 50,000 Tickets, at fight Dollars, 400,000
at- ————
pub- N. B. Tofavourthofewho may takea quan
tity of Tickets,the priie of 40,000 dollars will be
ided the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
:e to but on* :
"orm And approved notes, fccu»ing payment in either |
the prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
s at be received for any number not lets than 30 tick
orTe, ets. . .
nd,y This Lottery *lll afford an elegant fpecimcn of
dirif the private buildings to be ercited in the City of
lcrt o Wafbington—Two beautiful deCjns are already
IcltAed for the entire fronts on two of the public
iblic" squares; from these ispropofed to erect
lonfe twocentreand'ourcorner buildings,as foonaspoi-
Sun- fible after this lottery isfold, convey them,
fdav when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, n:
bui J the manner described in the fchemc tor the
1 to r Lottery. A,nett deduAion of five per cent, will
ti on . be made to defray the neceffiary expenses of print
ing, Sc.c. and 'he surplus will be made a part ol
> the fund intcml-ed for the National University, to
be elected within the city of Wafliington.
.v. The real feeurit.esgiven for the payment of the
I, " Prizes, ate held by the President and two DireS
Z„ J on of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than hats the amount of the lattery.
°, f MMVEL BLODOET.
,p7 «§. Tickets may be had at the Bwk oteolnm
liia ; of Jjmes Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
, t L Oilman, Boston ;of John Hopkins, Richmond :
iade{- Mckard Wills, Cooper 0 Ferry.
This Day Publiihed,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, uoracr ot
Second and G'.itfnut ftrcets,
Prix yHtljs of ' a Bollur, \ car
Observations on certain Documents pre
Contained i»i No. V and VI of I S° '
<< The Hillary of the United States for 9
i /■ )» A (in
the year 1796, Bo^
Infvhith tlte ciiaroc or speculation againlt tj; j.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, *
Late SECftETAKV of the Trkasury, is FULLY ow
REIUri"D.
WRITTEN DT HIMSELF. New
This publication preftnts a ccncile statement Gem
of the base means pra&ifed by the Jarobiwsof the Clan
United States to afperle rl>e chara&er« of thofc Spexi
perfonswho are con fibred as hostile to their difor- Prim
ganizing fchfine?. It also contains the cor- Choi
refpondence between Mr. Hamilton ami IVlcffrs.
. Monroe, MufcVnburgh and Vcnab'e, on the full- Best
icA of the documents alorefaid, and a Juries of let- £Jew
tors from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr ..Ma- Afe
njiltoii, proving beyond the poflibility ol ad' übt, Ruff
that the connexion between him and Reynolds, Clov
I was the result of a daring eonfpiraay on the part Lffy
bf the latter and hi* allocutes to extort money. No
tfjT A discount of one third from the retail price Afe
will be made 1* favor ot wholesale purchaser?. for Cart
cash. Orders to be addrefled to Mr Yovno. An i
AuzuH 25. L 5
No. 188.
By
Dijlr'tft of Ptnnfyl'tania, to wtt :
QE IV REMEMBERED, that on the
(L. so twenty sixth day of July, in thetvyen- *
ty second year of the independence of the United
.States ol' America, Johv Fun no, of the faiddif
triA.hath depofitedin this office tl;e title of a book,
the right whereof v he claims as proprietor, in the
words following, to wit :
u Observations on certain documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of "The History of the Unit
ed States for the year JiJ96," in which the charge
" of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, late
" Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
n Written by himfcif-"
In conformity to the a*Sl of tltcCongrefs of the
Ucited States, cntituled, " An aA for the encour
agement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts ami books to the authors ants propri
etors of such copies, during 'ha times therein men
tioned.'* _ _
SAMUEL CALDWELL, _
CM «/ the DtJlriS ,f Ptmifyhania.
July *7. _ _ £ _*W"L_
An elegant House in Arch Street. Fr
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and elegant house at the Corner of Arch and L,
Ninth Street. There are two drawing rnoma of
and one dining room—the largest is 31 feet by
16 —and two are so connefltd by folding doors
' as to make but one. Also. fire bed room* be
' fides sin the garret, well Snilbed for lervant*.
1 There are ftablei and a coach house, with evry
' convenience for a family- Enquire at No. 19,
' in North Seventh street, or at No. aiK, Arch
I Street;
William Blackburn, t
» LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICQ
3 No. 64 south Second-Srect.
* r T*ICKETB in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which R
A commenced drawing the 29th May, FOR
e 1 SALE. The price of tickets will rife ia propor
s j tion as the drawing advances, particularly on X
g ceunt of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes us
four thousand dollars each, on the latt day ot
o drawing. ,
19 Check Books kept for examination and regilter- J
is ing, intheCanal, No. 2, City oi Wafliington, No.
e 1, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets forfale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perk:oraen Bridge lotteries, which will begin _
_ drawing in the courie elf the summer.
The business of a Broker in ad kinds of Stock,
Bills v Note». Lands, &c- Sic. traiifas*jd with the I
utraoft attention.
'r Junk %
io Erflcine's Vievr of the^War.
in -
V JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & C».
*? No 40 South Second street,
jj. [Price 31 Cen»»3
be A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of'theprefent War with Francs.,
f , a f By the H.oaorable Thomas Brskink.
of May is ■
ui "state trials.
Sold b W. Younq, BookfcUe*, No. s*, South Se
cond-street,
L The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acqait
al of FrancisHopkinfon, Judge of the Court of
admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gcn
' cral—ln,one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boa*ds, g
dollars., , _ f
W. Yochg has for sale, a general alfortmentot
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack*
irs > ege, well afiorted,and entitled to the drawback if
.utparted. July 7—'
Z For SaJe,
000 That ivel!known plate, called Vandecrift*s
000 F r R a Y,
000 /-\N Nefhaminy creek, >8 niles from Phila
-000 ladelphia, on the New York port road,
000 containing 74 acres and 94 perctow. Upon the
00c premises are a large two llory flone house eccu
-000 pjed as a tvern, and a good one story ilone krt
-000 chen, a Urge frame (table with a gcodthrelliing
000 flpor, and I'om* out buildings —also a well of
000 good water, and an excellent ice House. On
,000 this place is a molt elegant situation fora gentle
-000 man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny to its junction wiih the Delawase, and thence
across to the Jerky fliore. ft has the privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the Subscriber,
,000 MORDECAI LEWIS.
yav'24. Jt4wtf "
— —~
II t>e COLUMBIA HOUSE
AST Boarding School for young Ladies,
ither TV yrUS. GIiOOMBRIDGE M-ith in»ch pleaf
will iVI ureand refpeit, returns her sincere ac
tick- knowledgemcnt for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years refidenee in
in of Philadelphia ; and aiiures her Friends and the
l f o( public, so far from intending tj> decline her
«dy fehool, (he has made a fupenor arrangement for
t ], e more convenient accommodation of her
ereC } scholars.—Every branch of ufet'ul and pclite
' poi " educationjs particularly attended to by Mrs.
hem, Q rooir b r idge and mafltrs excelling in their
i' refpeftive profe(T?ons.
„ Corner of Sprues and Eleventh Streets.
J.,ne„h, .797-
irtof The situation is perfectly healtfey ;
Vj to more agreeable by an cxtenfive garden and »ot
of ground adjoining the houle.
rla- " Publi/hcd,
ed at A n( j .„ be had ol Messrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Booksellers in the
city,price one dollar, twinty-five cents,ln boards,
,inm- j^ ew Yi ews of the Origin of the
fnd" Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMll'H BARTON, «• n.
wf June 30. * 6t
taws
FOR SALE, by
Joseph Anthony Sff Co.
No. 5, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Braady, ift and 2<J
proof, just landed
2jo bales of Boutbon cotton of afuperior quality
9 do. Surat, do' do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality
High proof Jamaica lpirits
Old London particular Madeira wine rln pipes &
do. market do . ? qr. caficsv
New England rum in hogsheads
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret in cases
Speiraaceti candles andftrain'd oil
Prime Boston beef
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrfija
Do. Herring in do do
Best Boston Mackarel in barrels of the fall fare.
New-England tow l : »«n
A few tons of Russia cordage
Ruflia feather beds
Clovtr and Timothy feed in :afk«
Long whale-bone
No i, 2, and 3, Boston fail duck
A few chests firft quality Hyson tea
Carolina rice 111 whole and half tierces arvd
An invoice of Dutch hollow glass
Pi member 8. daw.
FOR SALE]
By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 75, South
Water-ttreet,
A general affortmsnt. of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattins
Do. do. Lnteflrißgs
Do. d<». Handkerchioil %
Do. do* sewing Silks
Imperial and Hyson Teas
Long anfl (hort Nankeens
Quick Silver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes
Aflorted Glass Ware, in cases
White and brown Havanna Sugars, in boxes
> Molasses, in hoglhcad*
St. Croix Rum and iugar, in do.
London particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Winei, in quarfr
Red, yellow and pale Barks, iu chests
Logwood, &c. &c.
7.—tu&f 4 w JOSEPH SIMS.
Landing,
From on board the ship Edward, at Walnut
ttrset Wharf,
1 London particular Madeira Wine,
s of a superior quality, For Sale by the l'ubicriber.
>• Robert Andrews. .
s november J. eotf
1. For sale by the Subscriber,
y No. 89, South Third street,
), A few calks of high proof Brau4y
h 6o Tierces frelh Rice
40 Boxes of Chocolate
A large quantity of a (Totted window glass, abd
200 pieces fail cloth, {4o. I to 8
£ Ravetu Duck, Mace and Gum Senegal.
r Samuel Breck, jfun.
N. B. An excellent Compting Houft to let (ft* l
Rolls's wharf. 6teod Nov. a.
Wharton and Lewis,
£ HAVE FOR SALE,
0 j At their Store and Insurance Office for (hipping,
No. lis, South Front-street,
Jamaica Rum, 4th proof, ") entitled to
■ 0 Alicant Brandy, id &ad proof } drawback.
Madeira Wine, and
n( j few hogfbeads of Juniper Berries,
in Oflober gj. <o>t
;k Landing this day,
he From on board th« schooner Two Friendt, Dan
iel Crawley, Master,
_ 80 hhds. and / T ama i ca RUM,
12 pipes ) J
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer Iff Son.
uovemher 9. §
Mordecai Lewis,
HAS FOR SALE,
n- At his Store, No. »5, Greac Doclc-ftreet,
250 bales of Bengal Goods
Containing Baftas
1 Colics
Gurrahs
Moragqgungee*
Tookery
" Check atid Stripes
Bandano Handkerchief!
, Mamoody
ait- Calicoes
■t of II boxes Irifli Linens
!cn- I do. Diapers
t»,g 7 do. Umbrellas
20 c;anifters Java Sugar
it of 78 bag« black Pepper
ick- 11S do. East India Ginger
it if 100 casks roll Bripiftone
7e pipes Madeira Wine
— 57 calks Gin
A quantity of sheathing Copper and Nafls.
rt's OJtolier 30. "wtw
.Hi- Window Glass,
>a . d ' Of Superior Quality, and cheaper th|ui any other in
'" e iheCity—■
:cu- OF VARIOUS SIZES,
kit- Fiom Bby 6 to 19 by 14,
ling By the single Box or Quantity, may be bad at the
1 of store of the Subfcriberj, cornet of Arcb and Front-
On (heet.
itie- James C. & Samuel W. Fijher.
im " Philadelphia, June 9, 1797. 1 winwfit
snce 7"
lege Lately Published,
e * In one vol. 8 ve. (price one dollar in beards) fold
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
Chefnut streets,
A Colledlion of Papers on the fubjedi of
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years pad.
ieS. Compiled by JSIO/iH IVEBSTER, jhh.
leaf- Containing letters from Do&crs Seaman, Suiitk,
ac* Bucl, Taylor, Ramsay, Monl'on, Reynolds, MitA
Tient ell,on contagion, &c. &».
eei* S«pt- '-<• ■"
'' he Boston Glals Manufa&ory.
r" nnHE citizens of the United States are hereby
' r X inforraed, that the manufa&ure o4 Window
r G ass is now commenced at. the Glass House in Bof
'CUte
r ?" ]t is needlcfs to fny nny thing of the excellent
1 c ' r quality of the Boston Glass. as it is so well known
throughout the United States to be in every refpeil
ts - greatly fup> rior to any ever importej from Europe,
W It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
itiarte nvay be constantly had by applying to Charles F.
idiot Kui-fjR, at the Giafs House.
Orders from the distant States to lie a&lrefled to
Mr. Samuei- Gore, Court-street, Bifton.
Boston, Sept 30, 1797 O 4—iaw6w
„■ Milfr'- Timothy and Vafon, Chnrifttv ; Mcjfrs.
„U* ii"k e fyy ,an -> N ■ c
d and O'Connor, Norf ti ; Mr. Ellis Price, Alexandria ;
) ' Meffn. TunJt and Brtrwn, Ha/linmrr ; Mr.
Hcw-Ytrk ; and Mtjfri. W Gtedwiit, MmU
Ca . ford i Mr. Stymour, Savrjwsl- ; r.re refjuc/cd to infer)
Di the above onci a "aial 6 ivfih. 'Tit rr.w to It Jar.
' jt f IWlfdtd to'Ji! Ed'tti'.