<Sa?rtte «„ t mKttrs fitmte,«. Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
iT>Fg J 5 (J 4 ]
SA L l'i S BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
-Fo>- nr r gvo ns.
c Ft-CBOon—Edward v Fux,' No. 56,
. Mania r Frnwf-ftr^t,
, • ) Afternoon— footman & Co. No. 6j
C ooutli Front llreet.
( portnaou—Joliu Old Cltv
" AuAion, No. 73fout , ';i iront-fl.-jet.
J Afternoon—p?i!liam Shannon, No.
V. High-ftrcet.
Wataefiuj \ detifon, No. 74
} south rhiril-flrctt.
rtjwfdjy J Y'renoon— izaxyard cox.
X Aftetnoon—John Connelly.
'Friday < Fofcnoerf—Williaii Shanriox
5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
For HAMBURGH,
r l tip CoDper Bottomed Ship
' ./ FA VOIUTF, John
p..- yjjM gv I homf»k, Milter, now at
Bri E ilt * s wharf, and will be re.i
-t o "t,ke m on Monday next, |
part of bar cargo being engaged \
and reidv to go on board. The )% is so well
knownahit.it is ne*dfcf» to defcribel.fr. Sh
is now in eompleat order. For Freight or P.ifl
%E- to applv at Mr Jeremiah Warder's
Compiling. floufj. No. 11, North Third street.
or to the Mafti-r on bortl.
Acguft 30.
For SALE,
On hoard the fiicj Ship, Jjwedilh Iran, afiVte'l
Ilolloa, and IV mtlow G Us«, Demvj\»fcns, Wrap
ping Paper fir Sugar Refitfen, Rugs of 1 8l 1
(quality. Pleale to apply as above.
wf&rti4w.
White Havanna Sugar.
1461 oxes >of very fup(-riarqu.il,ty now difelurg
l.hds. ) ing from the fliip Msminfgh Packet
at Wuluut Street wharf—and forfale by
Philip Nick/in & Co.
N. B.
THE SUIP
Han Packet,
® ILA * Swain, Matter,
For Sale, or Charter.
Aug. 14. eotf ]
COMMISSIONERS' SALES, ;
Commifliuners of the counties of Ly-
X coming and Northumberland, have given
notice thjt they intend to proceed to the sale of
lands, for the arrearage of taxes, on the 7th of
S«ptembf'r next.
O" T'f different crinters in this eity will }
render an efiential fervlce to a great number of ,
individuals by publilhing thiynotiie. t
Aug. 18. t
" * FOR SALE,
BRETAONES In cases
German Checks in do.
* Cambrick
Plattillas
Oznabrigs
Gold and (jlver Watches
Glafu, 10 by g
Gidf*. Tumblers in cases
Linfceil Oil it* c«lk% &e. S'c.
George Pevnock,
103, High-Street.
l U V . 3aw
NOT I C
IF TnEny O'Hara, who some year* ftnee kept
School at the Nine Bridge:-, Quetn's County, Eas
ter:» Shore, Maryland, be living, he is hereby rc
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. Ansbrofe
Marshal, near Warwick, Cecil County, Eastern
Shore,' Maryland, from whbm he will receive in
terefiing information.
THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREEN LEAF,
HERKftYgive notice, that they have djfpofed
of tile property assigned to ihe.n tor the securing
thp payment of the note', acceptances, and»en
dorfenents given by Edward Fox, for the use
of the said James Greenltfaf; and the holders of
such notes, acceptances, and endorsements, are
hereby notifyed that the fuhfcribera will fettle
with then; for the amount of th.ir rtfpeiftive
eliiins, both principal and interest, at
any time bifore the icth day of Oiftober next; T
after which dav, the holders not applying, will
btextluded, agreeably to tilt terms of assign
ment. br
Applications to be made at south-east corner
of Dork and Second flreets (the Dock-street P r
fide), betwcfii the hoars of eleven and one o'
•lock every day, Sunday excepted. of
Henry Pratt,
Tho. IV. Francis,
John Miller, Jun.
John AJhley,
<k Jacob Baiter.
Philadelphia, Augufi 18, 1797. d
The Inhabitants of the Dillridt
of Southwark,
RE informed that a Coachee is provided, to be
jTj. kept Conftables* office, the north east
earner of Front and Almdnd streets, where the
friends of rhufe sick persons who desire to be re
moved to the City Hospital, arc requeftcd to make
application—Also,' a Hearse will be fcept in readi-
Clefs for the removal of the den J.
JONATHAN PENROSE.
N. B.— The Poor, who wifii to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may be furniflied with orders
by applyirjf? a! ove Auj 29 ; Yii]
Imported in the lateit'arrivals from
Amfterdani and Hamburg, ;and forfale by
B. £3° J. BOHLEN,
Jt large ajjerimenl of fine French Cambrics,
PlarilUs Russia mdDutch (ail'cleth
B-ittannias Writing; post, and print-
Rouaues ing paper Q
Brown Holland Dutch calf skins
Checks anS llripes Prime madder
Tieklenburgs Shell'd Barley
Oznihurgs Looking glafTes
"White ductings Hollow glass ware
Diaper Slates
Brown rolls Coffee milk
Umbrellas Brifs kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and draw knives '
Black and white laces '£ovs assorted in boxes ' nr
Ucft Holland Gin in pipes
LondWi jdc:ra VVi;ie
J4. jn&thtf
PHILADELPHIA: WEDNESDAY F-VKMNG, SEPTEMBER , w .
Tkit t'*..., T)..ki:,l 1 . " ' '' 1 ' ' 'n 11 ''
This Day Publifhcd,
And to he fold by WII.Ua vT VOU.n'G, corner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
f rict yZlh if a DJ!:,r,
Observations on certain Documents
56, Contained i:. No. V jb I V[ of
" The History of the United Stat»s for
the year 1796,"
In which the emu »: <>» aeiinft
lty ' ALEXANDER HJMILTON,
, ■ Latc S«CK£TAtr of til- rstAsui, is rULLY
,0 - HEFUrSD.
wrlt rs u nr v/msf. ir.
74 IT 1 "!" P nblici s tioa prrfents a conc.le ftateraent
of the base means pradifed by the Jacobias of the
United States to afperfc the characters of thofc
psrfons.who arc co-iidered as hostile t« their difor.
gatuzing lchemes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilton and Mcffr..
Monroe, IVluhlenburgh «nd Vcnab'.e, on the fub
je<a of the documents alorefaid.aud a furies of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife ti Ah, Ha
!IP nvlton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt,
that the connection between him and Reynplds,
was the result of a daring eonfpiracy on the part
'1- of the latter aid his associates to extort mensy,
:t > | A discount of one third from the retail price
' d 1 will be made in favor of for
ell cas 11. Orders to be addrciTed tJ Mr. Yo»sa.
■>*: Auvufl 25.
if- —:: -
" s The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
'"PHI J Stage starts lrom the GEORGE Tavern,
A- at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, cy-.ty TuM*y, Xbm-jJay, and Sttur-
I'l day, at 3 o'cjock, ia the irorning; arrives at Do
-- ver the lirft day, at SnowLill the second day. at
z Northampton Court HouJ'e the third day, and on
the morning of the .fourth day the palfengers' find
a fafe and aoinfortable packet to convey thorn to
. Norfolk. _
A patket leaves Norfolk for NArtharaptoa feiry,
every Tuetd ly, Thurf lay and Saturday, and the
start' from this fenry for Philadelphia, every
'> Moii.'ay, Wodnefday and Fri lay ;iput;aup at Sno\v
Hill thefirft night, at Dover the ad night,and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
rhediftance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles lef> than on any stage route
between those places.
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent inde«d. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
__ palfenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
D August 11. dim.eotf.
J" Philadelphia, ISth July, 1797. ]
VTOTICE is hereby given, that fepante pro-
J-v polals with fejled covers will be received
at tny office until thee levenfh day of September
next, to. lurnilh by contract the following ar
ticles for the use of the Army of the United >
. States in the year 1798. t
First Contradl for t
8 Sergeants coats ") C
2 MuQcians, do. | i
10 vests Dragoons. c
126 Privates coatt j i
ii 6 Privates vcfts ' J <1
64 Sergeants eoats
32 Muftcians, do.
96 Serjeants vests t
J 9* Wo len everslls Artillerists e
192 Line* overalls & ~
936 Privates ronta Engineers. i,
936 d». vests c ,
107 a Woolen ovwalls r
1872 Linen do. tl
14.1 Sergeants ccats «
72 MuGcians, do.
216 Sergeants vests
43a I.inen overalls
4.H Woolen do. 1. Infantry.
1893 Privates coats £;
1892 do. vests
3784 Woolen overalls
3784 Linen do. J '■
ill Contraii, for 1188 Serg.zsts shirt's
11816 Privates do.
12600 Socks
ad Contrafl, for 27 a pair leather breeches
3d Contract, for 272 pair boots
4600 pairfhoes, No. 1
Bcoo pair do. No. 2
4th Contrad), for 103 a Artillerifis and Engi
neers hats
2108 Infantry do.
136 Dragoon caps
The whole to be delivered at the city of Pliila-
J delphia, riZ-
One fourth on or before the ifth diy of Fa- '
bruary next. "
One fourth on or boforethe icth day of A
pril next.
The remaining half on or before the 15 th day 1.
of June next.
The articles are to be agreeable to such pa»- j.
terns as fhalf be directed by the Secretary for the
Department of War.
Payments to be made as fson as the article g'
111 all b« delivered, and passed infpe£lio.i.
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
entl itliSep.
Young Hyson Tea. I
Ai
40 chests of a superior quality—-Alio,
100 do. of Hyson,
Imported in the lVoodr,op Sims, and for sale by
the ftibfcribers, corner of Second and Pine
flreet. /
C. Haigbt. E*
June 21. _ eotf A
Imported in the ship Pigou, v 1
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South
Front ftrest,
Hyson A
Hyson Skin Ctjpiq
Toting Hyson f ' —=
Imperial J iK\
April 20. eotf
1 1 - 1 r^"~
Chocolate and Muitard
Manufaiftared as ,,'j
Ginger and Pepper ground '
Shelled or Piarl Barley
Bliiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder ;i
London Porter '
Taunton and Button Ale
Red Port and other V/ines, eithe bottled,
or by the pipe, (juarter-caik or gallon—fijitable cotl
&r "cstVJi"tatioa or home loiifunri'itioii—
i- o ' u * ma
• fcor Saie by
Jotfl llniunrth.
Ne. >)% foath FrWrfthst j J
By John Fzmo, N fc 119 Cbefnut Street.'
ro f ,^' ve Dollars Reward.
ROYBERTJ
S T™ fuhfcr ' : " ;r ' s i - , - vcl in S N>aic, in ftiefnufr-
I , A rCC '' ""j* •P cll f«me time since Fri
f.,r c \y. aml piundercU of prop. sty, the viae of
V.li.ch cannot ss yrt be afcertainco. The ruLUer.
-pined ad*, flion by Vltwkuig open a window fcut
-1 ter (.1 the .y of the back pan of the house
and afterward. „-ccd_A every lock therein.
-"V " c,Vt ' ttWiird *'« ufc pj»d for th t refturation
. of tu !, property a» tfety may have .aken, cr pro
pwt.orab'y f, r any pgtt a pV'.feeUtmn
■nt 01 penonw f.rfwi concerned to convK-t.on
he 0 JONATHAN M£RtD|,H.
if< S 'P ; Htf
l o s~, ;
/" fY J the Pilff>unlt KoaJ ' K'-we» the piue Bail
k. y l an '' i , t '', c cL 'y< I /'wling Piece, with a bras.
. ha/rel and filvtf on the plate oi the butt ate
-t- the letter. "Jamaica, Q__ 99 "-ar,d cn the barrel
near tho lock *• Londcu" and the Tower ftacip
't. Whoever will return the aid piece to 'join
• al th = %n of the Blue Ball on the Paffyuak Road
or the office »f this Gazette, fliaU receive a reward
of Four French Crowns,
« _Hept. j*. j » 3 j
DUTY ON CARRIAGES^
Notice is hereby Given,
rHAT agreeably to an aft of Coogtefs the
United State, of America, paifed at Phila
n. .klshia, tic. ißtii day of May, ; 79 6 ; layiuffdu
lu t.»» on Carriage., for tie conveyance of perfoiM
which lhall be kept by or for *iy person, far his'
■*" or fc er ow " ole, or to let out to hire, or for the
" conveys:» of pafferger.,, the several duties and
" j rates following, tp v*it :
For and upon every Coach, 15 dob.
0 upou evvry CI nriot, ndui»,
up>s every Pos Chawot, I; dol».
'• upon every Po» Chaise, m dols.
upon every r'iaetoo.with or witliout top,
1 ■ 9 do's> - y '
upon every Qoachee, 9 dol».
' upon other Carriages, having pannelwork
above, with blind., glaffcs or curtain.,
9 dols.
* 1 upon f»ur wheeled Carriages, having fra- i
med pods and u>pt with steel fpriogs, 6 \
I doli..
upon four wheeled Carriage., with wood
e%vr iron fprjnfs or jacks, 3 dolt,
upon Cnrricles with tops, j dols.
' »pon Chaise. with tops, 3 dols. 1
upon Chair, with cops, 3 dels. i
upon other two wheel topcarriage., 3 dols. t
upon two wheel carriages, with ftcel or 1
iron spring., 3 dol.. {
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, a dols.
upon every four wheeled cirriage, having c
framed polU and tops, and reding up- t
r on wooden spar», 4 dol.. f
The ColleAors of the Revenue for tho 6rft Sur- J
• of the Didria »f Pennsylvania, will attend f
daily, until the 30th day of September n.«, for
the puipofe of receiving the duties on Carriages, at F
Germantown ; at the house of Danifcl St. Clair,f-.fn, ,
in the County of Montgomery; and at the house
of James Chapman, Esq. i* the County of Buck.;
of which all pcrlont poffrfTed of such Carriage, are
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dif
tilkd fpirituou. liquors, that licences will ke grant
ed to them ; one licence lor carrying on the busi
ness of retailing of Wines, in a Iffs quantity, or
in lef. quantities than thirty galian»—and one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailing Spi
rituous liquor* in Ufsquantities than ao gallons, at
the fame t:rae and at the fame piace., by the offio
ers legally anthorifed to grant such licences
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpcilor of the R;venite cf the firft fur.
vey of iSe Diflri&of Peanfylvacia.
Offi.e of Infpedtion at ")
Germ>ntow, latff Sept. J79?. /
IMP O R T E D
Utksfliip America, James llwinfc, mailer, from
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands ~
White Piatillas
Ticklenbiirg.
Coarfc Linens r -
Tapes
Looking Giafles "> .
Class Tumblers j » rafu *-
FOR SaVLC UY .
George Petmock.
Augvfl 14. j aw
An elegant House in Arch Street. q
TO be-let and entered on immediately a large
and elegant house at the Corner of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing r >oms
and one dining room—the largest is 31 feet by
aut ' f wo are so by folding doors
sto make but one. Also, live bed rooms, be
des in the garret, well fia-ifhed for servants. .
There are stables and a coach house, with evry J
convenience for a family. Enquire t|»No. 29, th
m North Seventh street, or at N«. 218, Arch «o
Street. co
PETER BORGER, 6,
INFORMS his friend" and the'public in general
that he has removed from No. 129, corner of
Arch and Fourth, to No.-roj North' Front, be
tween Arch and Race llraets. 1,1
Rofs & Simfon,
HAVE FOK SALE .
C Hfigflieads, A
Excellent Coffee in < Tierces', and
C Barrels. Prp r
I A fmull parcel of nice cocoa in bags
A few puncheon* Jamaica fpirita, fourth proof
Superior Tencriffee wine, old and in Madc 'ra pipes
An invoice of jewellery and hosiery t« be fold by
the* package
A few hampers bfllEnglWi ch*ef«.
J u 'y »7- dtf. ; n ,
Insurance Compatiy cf North America, cn
F
Stockholders in this company are here- * le
A by iiii'm met), that, puiTuant to the fifth F el
clsitfeof their Charter, and"it-Ae request of a ' n
" Number cf Siackholders, who, together, are
proprietors of Six TKoufjpd Shares, and up- ' an
wares,'a-geilml meeting "f 'he Stockholders
will be held 2t tiie Company's Office, on Mon
day the 25th day ot Septetnber next, at n
o'c|oc.k, n. M. for the purpose of filling up a
vacancy in their Direction ; and taking into _7
fuch Regulations or Bye La'-vi as E:
may be preluited in conformity with the Char
ter of Inct>rpor-..tion. 1
EBEN. HAZARD, SeSry.
JjIV za, w&ftSa^
d. N O T I C E.
A IX those who have any claims againd the
L A. eitate of Juksj Cole, Unibrtrlla Maker, kite"
utw will apply within a month from the date
ri- j!, 1 " 0 *- Mrs, Cole, at the south eatt-corner «f
0 f SJ-" Second streets, for their arrangement,
sr. ■ ®." "*" demands are not Lnt in befeie ,thc
at- ex l'' rst '<"l of the abovementioned time, they v.-i'l
J. not he allowed, as his property will be difpoled of.
in! !ie '' t l 9- 'II
on Imported in thefhip Manchester,
„ UiNjAMiN Shew el i, Malltr,
in. ' om Bourdeaux, and for faje by the
No. ti Walnut j&t eet.
Bonrdsaui: Brandy
Irish marfcet clarct in cases / Entitled to
iH Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback.
l[t Sauterne, do. do. J
ri: Thomas Murgatroyd.
j WHO HAS FOR SALE.
P' Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter casks
j* Rota do. do.
•d Pimento ip bags
4000 bulhels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
A PERSON OF INGENUITY, lauly arrived
from turope, wishes to fird here a place in
the quality of a Director of a Glass-house, Chryf
e tal of all kinds, having particular ait aits for the
conftru&ion of tKe kilo*, pots. &c. and possessing
- ;: kcw iJ ;j tlie articles nfed in the Cials Aou'fci. of
i, gland and France, havipg worked a long while
s in n:»tt of theci. fcvery exercicn will be made to
e render the manufafiory deferviffg of public appro
;i katioa—He, who wishes to fpcak to him, will find
him it No. l-';out-2ie«t.
Amruft 14. •.(
Pjt lale or to let oa grouijii
rcnt,
, A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the iiorth-eiftcorner of Wal-
Dut and Filth streets, fronting the State- 1
c House square. This lot is fifty-one f>et front
, on YYa'mus flreei, and one hundre'd and thirteen *
ieet and an half on Fifth street ; there are it
present two small two ilory brick house., and a
' number of iinail tenements thereon.
Alfa, for Salt,
Two three story Erick Houses '
With convenient floret, wharf, &c. fituare on '
Water-street, between Mulberry and SaiTafras v
streets, containing in front on Water street Of- j
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth cast- c
ward niritiy-five sett, then widening to the u
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses a
ave the conveni«nce of a public alley adjoining a
on the north fide, and are a very desirable fitua- It
tien for a merchant, flour fa<3or,or others who
may have oceafion for ftoraje of goods. This si
property will be fold on very reasonable terms f<
for cash. For further information apply to the Is
printer.
J u| y m&wtf
The Subscriber has for Sale,
i A large assortment of India Muslins,
coarfc and fine £ t
India Calicoei c .
Sooty Romall*
B'ue Cloths and Check* g
Bandanna Handkerchiefs
Blue red and Gilli Handkerchiefs
An invoice of Irilh Lineus tnd ihectiogs, well
assorted
A box of Diapers
Silk Umbfella*
Two boxes ef fine Spiciw, coiaining Nutmegs,
Mace and Cloves'
Black Pepper of firtt quality m
East India Ginger fe
Java Sugar ea
A quantity of Madeira Win* ' th
Ditto of Gin .01
Roll Erimftune e
Mordccai Lewis.
AupiJ} 12. 3»w7m Lc
I 'l . - ■
Cedar Shingles.
r | !, HE fu'ifcriber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar J .j'
X Slungles cf a superior quality, for sale at 13 1
dollars ui*r dioufaud.
!ii
William IMloivdU in
No. 193 Nurtb Third-Jirut. "J,
July 17- eoi;t n .
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and [I
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just received, by Wm. GiurriTns,No. i?7,SouiK e '
Second-flriict, u frefh lupply of
Genuine Bal/am of Honey, "
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John Hill is
V. (who knowledge as a Botanist procured hinj qu
the appellation of the Lir.nxus of Britain) and i$ fu
•onfidercd in England a? a certain cure for the above th
complaints; it is alio cf finguUr elHcaoy in the to
Hooping Cough, eia
It may also be had retail of W. A. Stokes, No. cii
61/ South Second street, and T. Siiff, 55, New- /hi
street, in bottles at 75 cents each. an
Wm. Griffiths having observed the happy e£* an
fedl of the medicine, (leveral cases of cures hav- to
ing come within his own knowledge) and the great at
demand for it has induced him to order a largfc he;
fuppiy, a part of which he has just received. ve
■^ u Z u fi 3» of
At a Meeting of the Board of ft"
Property, June 6, i/07» a ."
Present John Hall, ?ee'ry * '
Francis Johnlton, li. G. Coflandoffice
Dan. Brodhead, S. G j • ' lil
Nicholas Bettinger,
•vrrfus >
Samuel Cunningham, j
In this cafe the proof of fervict of notice be
ing infufficient, Tt is<vdered that notice be giv- "
cn in one of the Philadelphia and York newfpa- ' uc
pert weekly, for at leail eight weeks to the | or
heirs or assignees of Samuel Cunningham de- tJ |
ceased, to~atttend the'board on the firlt Monday <
in November next, to fllew caule why a patent eVt
fhoulJ not ilTiie le Nicholas iiettingei for the go
land in quetlion. has
(A true Copv.) ■ diri
j; >HN HALL, ura
Secretary of the Land Office.
Aug, it. ' ?iawßw. I
—-
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Kitto ditto Claret {b cases
Just received, and for Sale by
Ran Jit Isj Leech.
Ay., 21; a.,»itf J
Thomas Herman LfUFFEk,
the North fifth flroct, corner of North alley, No. 34,
ate ■*-, - V, HAS FOR SALE >
- XCELLEN r red iiourdeaux Wine in cstk* ani
• » 4 ooxes, fix. years old
■ vV hite Graves Wine in calks
"Y; TicWlelibirg,
V 1 1 Ruflia Sail Cfoth«
°' - Raveus Duck
5 U'jT Li»en
R,
'Diaper and T Me Cloth
Empty ba»s
2r > CViunon German Cloth
Ail affortmentof black coloured Ribbon,
fine German Laces
to About twelve tons Russia ck-.a Hemp
Clover Seed r
Italian Soap, in foull boxes, for familv ufa
Window Glafi Aue 4 0-Mw
. , ThJa uAlf WAS PUBLISHED,
And ,»r Me l.y THOMAS DOBSON, at the
otone House, No. 4,1, south Second flreet.
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR., "1 HE JUVENILE BUDGET OrEXiiD.
CoiOiftuig oi a variety of Mifoell.neous Pieces for
aaiuftment of YOUNG i'r.R
---_ SGNS Six Volumes handfoMclypriuteiand bound
;d ur> ia two volumes, price Two Dollars.
j n The variety and excellence of thsfa pieces we
f. •uch, that the book needs only to be known to lie
le efleemed one of the nioft valuable pub
<r ''cations tn t can be put into the hands ci >
pmfons. ' *
le delightful talk to rear the tender thiu^ht,
u to teach the young idea hew to flioot,
K 1 o pour the frelh inftruAioa o'er the minj,
d reptile ri: enlivening fpirtt.and to Hi
The generous purpose in tKfc glowing breafl."
Thomson.
- . A( *y u!t *4- mwl 4 w
THIS D .Y IS PtfJsLISHkET ~
' ) THOMAS EOBSON, at the itoue Houf®,
No. 41, south Second (lre«t,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several feunyr LatGu, oh improving and vv
terefting fubjefts.
* Trauflated from the Dutch of Maimu it Cumfox,
wnh alterations and improvements,
1 Printed onfne paper, andneatly Uuud,
fria one Mar.
AMIDST the tide of modem Romances, paintinw
. tales of extraordinary distress, or of desperate or
i artlul villainy, which " harrow up the Ion!," and
whici it would be lor the honor of young laiics u>
be ignorant of, this little book comas forward to fe
ll'" notice, where, in a variety ef incidents, net «-
' ceeding the bounds of real tif., the proper, b<*aufs
; clerant and natural dignity and imporhait of the Ftmalt
1 dare Her is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
andprefenta examples of real and attainable excel!
lance.
The publi&er was forauch pleafsd with the pern*
lal, that he was persuaded he (hould do a plcafing
service to the coramuaity by fending it in o circu
lat'°n- Anguft 14 —mw^vv
To Majiers and Pilots bringing uf> Vejfels
from Foreign Ports to this Chj.
"YTTTHereas sundry infringements have lately been
V V made on the laws of this state for the pre
venting peftilsntial or infe&ious dUoafes, eithen
frpm ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publiftf tha following ex
trails from (he law» of sjd April, 1794, 7th a*<i
Bth feilious.
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794,
ExtraS of an all for /tearing the tit} and port
of PhV.aMpbia from the introdußion of feftin
lential and contagious di/ea/ss.
Sect. 7. And be it further enafted, that «v»ry
matter or captain of any (hip or veflel coming from
lea (vefTela actually employed.in the coaftu>g trade
t xcepted) and bound to any jiort cr place within
the jurifdidlioncf Penniylraaia.fba 1 ctmfe hi, i'a.'p
or veflel to be brought to anehor.or ot>ervvil« fl a j>
e l in the tircsm of the tiver Delaware, oppofitt ia
the Health-Office on Stau-Ifluid a/orefaid, and
there to remain until ho fiiall have duly obtained a
certificate or bill of heal h from the Refkcct I'hy-
Ccian. Acil.il, previously to obtaining inch certi
n.-ute or bill of lu-alth, any mailer cr captain Ciali
lu.fei hisihip or veiTel to approach neartr than the
said Health-Office to the city of Philadelphia, or
".•all land, cause or fu£fer to be landed, ox fart u-h;;
on shore, at any place or port within thus Com
mbnwcalth, or at any other port or plm«, with the
intent oi being convoyed into this Common v ealth,
any pwfon or persons, or any goods, wares or tner
chamiize, or, if after receiving fueh bill of health
o-certificate, he stall jieglcd Or tefufe to deliver
the lam- to the Health-QflW, such n-.alter or cap
t&i (ball forfe.t ac; p .y, for each and every l'ucli
offence, the fumof hve ntiNDßtb doilars.
Aikl the captain or mailer of evary lhip or vcf.
fel fcallfendafal'e and commodious boat'to bring
the physician on board, and shall ii ( like manner
convey him back to the Health-Office, after he lias
concluded his official examination ; And While he
is making such examination, ir in iafe any subse
quent examination by the Heal:h Officer <sr Con-
I'uking PhyCcian, agreeably to the
thi a6k, the mailer or captairt ffiall expo(e or caul©
to be exposed to thefearth of the Rclident Phyft
cian.or of the Health Officer and Coni'ulting Physi
cian (as the cafo may b») each and every part of thi
fhi;» or vessel, and ihaiKprefent to his v'l-vv each,
and every person or perforson bt»rd;ther;of, and
and lhall al(o true and l'atisl'a&ory answers 'make
to all inch qucilions as the Resident Phyfician,'etc.
at the time of examination (hall aik Relative to tbo,
health of any port or place fr«m which the ffiip or
veflel failed, or has fUice touched at—she number'
of persons 011 board when the fliip or veffci entere j
on her voyage—the numter of persons that have
ftnee been landed or tafceft on beard, and wheu
and whererefpeftively— whatperfoas on board *
f they have been during the voyage, ut fiiall, at.
the time of examination, be infefied with any pc:-
tiientialor contagious disease—and what is the itc
fent Hate i'.nd condition of the persons ou board
with rclpeit to their health or difcifes. And i&
any mailer or captain shall refufe to expose as uforc-v
aid, to the fea'rch of aay of t.he efheers aforcfai !.
nif he fiiall ctneeal anyJtek perjiu, or in any other /xmii*
( er deceive tie proper officers a/orefaid in iit an
uch captain or mallei',for every such offence, shall,
1 forfeit and pay the fWm of fivs mundreo bow
LARS.
otc r. 8. And if sv.y person ®r persons whatso
ever (the Reftdent Physician, Ac. excepted) shall
go 011 board any vessel, before the mailer thereof
received a certificate of h»alih in the miinec
directed, every person so off.nding, fuall pay the
Um Of ONE KBNDSEO D'.ILLAKS
IT beipg absolutely neeeffary tka-t the foregoing
fecliapa ftiould be pmi&ualiy complied with, the
fubferiber, in eomp.Tmce with his duty, must rx
ail a rigorous ©bftrvance of the lame, or else na
iindat t'Se neccffity of putting the laws in force.
Wm. AIXKN, Health Officer tj tit
P*rt,9f J*'hiladelpbia.
J u! r tijw
\Vclume XII.%%t(Sajette. £
. m
P PII LAD EL P HIA 5 m
WEDNESDAY EVBNiMGH September 13. h'
Fro'rft the Minhlva. ti
f.fihV people believe !il the pro fp eft of o'
a f;Tr"rai peaccj on accoilrit of the exhaust- si
'ed flati of As nations at war. But this i n
vea&n is not decisive—France has been three | n
years exhauiled, but she carries on war by ! oi
'plundering nations that are not exhausted. > la
While any part of -Europe retfiains implutu*. cl
dtfed by her afmie«t /he can carry on war b
and will not be driven by poverty to make . ft
peace* While the wealth of Spain, Portu- aj
gal, arid the Hans Towns, remains untouched, ? v,
we can hardly expett peace. There is no ( rr
difficulty in finding pretexts to plunder those \ Ci
nations and states. The process for ft « re- p
publican" army, is the mod simple imagina- : -
ble. It is only to march a body of trpops ji
thro' the country —fay Spain and Portugal : rr
•. make some oppressive demands on the ?tl
people, or kif'jlt the priests, who are called rr
fanatics —thus provoking the people to afts p
of violence. These aft* of violence will v
then serve as pretecb to threaten the nation ! v
or Rate with " terrible vengeance," unless si
they purchase pardon with heavy payments v
of money - and the poor dogs mull submit. '
It is all -a joke to fay' France cannot-carry on I
■war ; the truth is, she cannot carry on peace. *'g
She lives and thrives by war—peace may be J t
her ruin. j ®
As-ta Airftria, the government is poor ; ii
tut the.emperor has yet immense resources ! c
in the prid£, the wealth, the spirit, and at- j ii
ofhis Hungarian fitbjefts ; and it j c
is against the sharafter of thehoufe of Auf- ; a
trij, ai l the principles of human nature, to j c
suppose that proud imperial family will fuc- . i
eumb .tamely to the facrifices demanded by t
the French. While any chance prefsnts it- ' c
fel'f to the emperor, of a change in the ca» -
binets of Europe, which (hall enable him t« 1 \
.retrieve his fortune, we raay consider the , v
signing of preliminaries merely as an expedi- t
ent to gain time and avail himfelf of negoci- : f
ations to ftrengthet\ his own power and 1 a
weaken that of his edemy. g
Great-Brit-iin is mortgaged to pay the hi- r
tore-It of a gigantic d*bt ; and while she is t
daggering under the load, /he is incapable . t
cf exerting her natural strength. But onee I t
difeneumbered from that, Great-Britain has i
resources to cope with half Europe in the ;
maintenance of fleets and armies. t
As to the United States, it is not im- e
probable that an accommodation of differen- -
'ces may take place with Trance : not on ac- t
count of any attachment to our interell or t
form of government, but because it may t
happen that the French councils may be c
convinced* it is their interest not to drive us c
into hostilities. If they wish to retain the , j
jurifdiftion and the trade M*their solonies in f
the Weft-Indies, or with their allies, to keep «
the Floridas and Louisiana, they will not 1
permit a rupture between the two countries; (
for all those poffeffiona are within our reach f
and our power. \ <
I
John Bork, the fugitive Irishman who t
formerly published a paper in Boston and i
has written plays for the amuferpent of the (
inhabitants of the United States, has ad
dressed a letter to Harrifon Efq. 1
abusing him for calling the cargoes of emi- :
grants from Ireland, " hordes of wild Irish- ]
men."- The letter ifc in the usual ranting f
stile of modern liberty J'tys, who talk iriuch
more about government than they under
stand. But we notice the letter principally
with a view to txpofe the arrogance of the
writer, who infin-uates that the writers in fa
vor of owr administration, are " boys that 5
can hardly spell," and that many " school t
boys in Ireland are capable of teaching our «
legislators the principles of government." 1
This remindsols of some young men from J
that country, who, with a commoti fehool
education, came to America just after the j
peace of 1783, to set up schools and teach 1
the Americans English. They really sup- t
posed, before they arrived, that Americans j
in general could not speak the English lan- ]
guage. _ '
Burk however, in his letter to Mr. Otis, 1
gives us some cinfolstion. He fays if
there should be a revolution in Ireland it ;
will pnt a stop to all emigrations to this 1
country. If this is true, all we can fay is,
that we hope in mercy there will fpecdily
be a revolution. , _ # '
There are many excellent citizen* from ■
Ireland, who have entered into buGnefs in I
thcfcUnited States ; and the Irish people of 1
breeding are remarkable for generosity, hof- 1
pitality, bravery, and other virtues. But i
whether Mr. Otis was correft in his expref
fiori or not, his ideas of the mass of people ■
brought from Ireland are just. The moll
of them are from the debased and comipted
part of the Irish nation, and 3re a nuisance
to this country. - A fin.
PARIS, June 24.
Sir Sidney Smith t» Central Pichegru,
Prefidentof the Council of Five Hundred.
When I learned from my prison that Pi
gru is ele&ed President of one of the Coun
cils, and Barbe Marbois of the other I re
joice—because this homage paid to virtue,
to, to probity, ind to talents, affords mea
hope that moderatibnand humanity will reign
in France, and establish 'harmony between
our two nations, formed to eftecm each
ether. . .
I recolleft that the non-execution of the
decree of death palled aguinll the English
prisoners of war, was partly due to your
firmnefs and humanity. You have prevent
ed this blot ofbarbarifmjrom being fixed on
your nation.
lam a prisoner of war—l did not surren
der my arms till after an obstinate refiftapce,
and till honour commanded me to do so :
persons l>ave pretended to * uvil about the
weakness of my detachment, wllich dared
to measure its strength during three quarters j
"•f-an ito«JT with thofj that furroucded us. j
I have V.een unprifoned as a cnir.inal, and I
have fuffered all the rigours of h solitary con- 1
finement during thirteen months. I have 1
made repeated applications to the minister of 1
marine* >having been taken at sea ; to which
however, he haa never deigned to give me ;
|riy anfWer. I sent a defeription of my ii
tuation to the Executive Dirtftory, with- ]
out any effeft.—At the expiration of the! i
firft seven months of my detention, the mi- 1
j nifter of justice sent a of the peace to
j me, who interrogated me on a vague charge
! of having done something contrary to the
1 law of natioirs. The justice of the peace
. clearly Convinced that the government had
been deceived by exaggerated reports, and
. struck with the absurdity of thus proceeding
agaitift an officer for the common events of
war, formally promised to procure, if not
my liberty, at least some amelioration of my
! donfinement. Since that, fix have
pasted, and I have heard nothing from him
! -* The accusation brought forward by the
justice of the peace was, that I was the ene
my of the rep-üblic—Y«u know, General,
; that with military men, the word enemy has
merely a technical fignification, without ex
prefiing the least charafter of hatred—You
will readily admit tl)e principle,' ( the result of
I which'is, that I ought not to be persecuted
for the injury I have been enabled to do,
whilst I carried arms against you.
I trust the council will not be offended, if
' I do not address myfelf to them in the lan- ;
''guage of a suppliant. Acctlftomed, owing
; to my Eiiglifh education, to refpeft power ;
■ only for the good it does, and not for the •
injury it may wish to do me, I thing it ne
! ceffary to state my exaft fituation—Bcfides j
! it would te an inlult to the council to foli
j cit its justice and humanity as a favour, by ;
t appearing to entertain a doubt of its eariieft j
' desire to manifeft both! No; notwittyland- .
' ing every thing I have fuffered, I have not j
: the least doubt of French generosity I
' only complain that it has not a free course
• ' —The doors of my prison are shut to those,
1 i who, having been my prisoners in England,
; would, I make no'doubt, afford me, (now
■ that I have, in my turn, need of them) the
• ■ fame consolations that I offered them. I
I ' am fearful that this example of rigour will
get into usage between the tvro nations, by
• reprisals being made. I have done every
1 thing in my power to preveut it, in order
: j that the base passions may not take place of
: i those of a nobler nature, by which the mil
-1 itary of every country ought to be animated.
•; You will find, by the annexed papers, that
the exchange of prisoners, has been delayed
. eight months by the refufal to set at liberty
. —Thus, when I speak to you of my own
• misfortunes, I bring to your recolleftion
• those of ten thousand Frenchmen. Itisra
■ ther your influence that I ask, than any aft
of you as a body, unless, indeed, you will
i decide the (Jueftions, whether the minister of
: , justice his the right to make a ftrangtr fuf
-1 set under laws ot which he is ignorant, and
) 4at the fame time to violate
t by prolonging a facret, which deprives him
; of all counsel, and of every means of de
-1 fence. I refpeft too much the demarcation
of powers, not to acknowledge, that as a
prisoner of war, I am entirely at the difpo
-1 fition of the executive government; but it
1 is doubtless occupied too much with affairs
: of importance, to attend an individual.
1 beg you citizen Prtfidcnt, to be con
. vinced of my veneration for the august char
- after of a representative of the French peo
- pie, and to accept this testimony of my e
j fteem for you personally.
1 Your Prisoner,
(Signed) W. SIDNEY SMITH.
■ LONDON, July 8.
All the King's (hips in the river, equip
t ped for service are ordered to drop down to
1 the Nore : they are supposed to be ftation
r ed as an immediate reinforcement to Admi
ral Duncan, the AgincqJjrt, Lancaster and
1 Lion, are expefted to'fail this day.
1 Dispatches were on Saturday sent off to
1 Lord St. Vincent's, that the homeward
\ bonnd Manilla Fleet was (hortly expefted in
- the Spai.ilh ports, of which circumstance
s government had been duly apprised, by the
- papers found on board the Spanish polacre,
captured by the Serpent sloop of war, and
, sent into Portsmouth.
f A large Portuguese ship from the' Bra
t zils, has been retaken by the Dover armed
s transport, valued at ioo,OOol.
' - Jl,ly 1S * . • «
y Paris Journals of the nthand 12th inft.
were received in town yesterday afternoon,
a which were brought to Dover in a flag of
1 truce, having on boaid the M. Spinola, Am
f baffador from the republic of Genoa to our
"- court. The most material article contained
t in thtfe papers, is an edift lately iflued by
the king of Prussia, on the fubjeft of the re
e cent proceedings of his Imperial Majesty,
1 from the general tenor of which, the great
d eft apprehensions are entertained on the con
e tinent, that the flame of war will soon be
kindled between those two monarchs.
The only mention made of Lord Malmef
bury's cmbaffy is, that his Lordfhia had his
firft interview of business with the French
I. commissioners on the Bth inft.
i- The situation of those departments whith
1- arc infefted with conspirators con
tinues to occupy the attention of the legif
:, lature. The capital remains iri a state of
a the utmost tranquility,
n We have received the Paris papers to the
n 24th and 25th ult. These papers contain
h some very spirited obfervjtions of Dumolard
1 in the conncil of five hundred on rtie revolu
le tionary manifeftoes of General Buonaparte,
h in refpeft to Venice and Genoa ; and the
ir conduft of the Direftory haa been denounc
t- ed, for having assumed the right of making
n war and peace ; and for concluding alliances
without she concurrence of the legillative
1- body, or even any communication made to
f, it. An important faft is mentioned ia the
: Redafteur of the 24*11 ult. "that the em
te peror had deferred the conclusion of a defi
d nitive treaty of peace, until the Congrefi,
raj stipulated in the firft articles of the kite prc
s. | liruioaries ofpeuce, is held." '
1 . .. * ' 1 *
It is coriftfled, in the Pans fapeft, that a
(Iror.g 1 antUrevolutionary spirit begins to
lhanifeft itfetf against principles in Lomoilr
dy. Pavia and Como are said to be the cen
ters of this fermentation. Buonaparte has
proposed. to .the general adminiilration of
Lombardy a federation of all the national
guards. This, he fays, will be the point of
re-union to the people of Italy, and being
determined to perish.or be free, their ene
mies will turn pale with affright. .
Strong hopes of peace are entertained by
the people of France. M. Colahen, fecre
tafy general to the commission appointed to
treat with the Englilh Ambaflador, set out
i for Lisle on the 23d of this month, to make
; the neeeflary arrangements for opening the 1
negociation. The propafed Congress will 1
not take p!#ce unti! after the signing of the |
preliminaries between Great Britain and !
France ; at lead fuub is the assertion of i 1
tbofe writers who art considered to ftind j
highest in the confidence of the Executive j
Direftory. .
A letter from the Hague of the 4th _
fays, that the Texel fleet has not yet failed,
as fome.of our journals have aflerted, bur
it is certain it will not be long firft. All
the troops are to be embarked by the 7th
of this month, and faid to amount
! to 15,000, all of whom aic Dutchmen,
j There is at this moment a fleet of Englifli
(hips, composed of ten fail of the line, be
fore the Textl ; it is thought that the
Dutch fleet will consist of 22 fail of the
1 line, and in all 100 jreflels will give battle
to the Englilh. These Dutch (hips are
supplied with great plenty of ammunition,
j 30,000 muskets have been embarked on
: board th»m, and the crews arc in good or
| der, so that the grcateft success is expefted
j from this expedition, which, according to
, the most probable opinion, is dire<9ed against
j Scotland or Ireland. Some persons, how
ever, pretend that it is destined to (htot Hp
the Elbe and the Wezer. The whole of j
the 3d battalion of tin 2d demi-brigade I
of grenadiers has been broken) for having I
opposed the embarkation.
On Sunday last lord Malme(bury deliver
ed to M. Letourneur the projet of our
court, as thf bafi* of the negotiation. In
this note Great Briton consents to reftbi*
all the conquests matte from France, but
excepts ihofe of the allies. A very long,
and naturally, a very interesting conference
fenfued on the general interests of both
countries, in the course of Which M. Le
tourneur remarked on the great balance of
trade which would remain in the hands of
the English, were (he to keep pafleffion of
all the conquests made from her other ene
mies. M. Letourneur, at the close of the
conference, said he was not authorized to
give any answer to these propositions, but
would forward them to the executive direc
tory. On which lord Malme(bury remark
ed, that he wi(hed to be understood that
they were points which might be modified
by further difcuflion.
BERLIN, July 1.
It appears that a considerable misunder
standing prevails, between our court and
that of Vienna. < A proclamation has been
publi(hed here in the name of government,
which may serve as some explanation of the
extraordinary armaments of the EmperQr,
and of those who are engaged in it.
Frederic IViUiam, by the grace of God, king of
Prussia, £sV.
According to information which xvehiave
rtceived the Aulic Council has, without
having heard us, caused certain orders to be
issued by which, on the demand ot one
party entirely in favor of the complain
ants, they have attempted to decide refpeft
ing us and ; our rights, and to detach our
fubjefts from the obligations which they
have conttafted with us, and they have even
formally summoned persons of the Equeflr'an
order to consider tisno longer their sovereign.
The orders by printing and circulating
which it has been attempted to mislead our
fubje&s, are—
-1 ft. A mandate of the Aulic Council of
the 17th March, 1797, on the fubjeft of the
reaffertion of the claims to the (overeignty
of Brandenburgh over the Bi(hoprick of
Eichftadt. v ' 1
2d. A conclufum of the Aulic Council of
the 23d of March, concerning the preten
sions of fovercreignty, of Brandenburgh over
the Equestrian order in Franconia.
3d. A do. of the Bth April, &c. against
the Imperial city of Weiflemburg.
4th. A do. of the sth March, &c. a
gainst the Eleftor of Cologne, as Grand
Master of the Teutonic Order.
sth. A do. of the 9th May, against the
city of Nurembnrg.
As according to the laws of the empire,
we cannot look upon the above orders as
valid or obligatory in law, but on the con
trary ought to consider them as afhial en
trenohmenf! on our sovereign rights, and
Angularly vexatious, we do in confeqnetjce
seriously and graciously admonish by these
presents, such of the equestrian order as
formerly belonged to the cantons of the
equestrian orders of the empire, as well as
all other inhabitants resident within the do
. minion, of lords belonging to the equestrian
. order, or of neighbouring princes imperial
' pities, or other foreign proprietors, not to
fuffer themselves to be led away in any par
: ticular from their duties asl fubjefts. We
1 a dure them that it is not our intention to
[ restrain or to attack the allegiance which
. they oifi to theiv lords, and we promise to
, protedt them with energy agaiuft every one ;
at the fame time we inform them that alt
. those who may be tempted to withdraw
themselves frqm their, duty as fubje&s to
i I ward us, will be proceeded against accord
: ing to law, in the most rigorous maooer,
1 and without diftinflion of persons.
: Given at Berlin, June 24, 1797.
(L- S.) Frederick William,.
Frukenflein.
, Seve/flcben.
Hardtnltrg. w
" HaugwU%.
By this clay's Mail.
N E W-YO R K.7"Sep tember 12.
LA T E
Foreign Intelligence !
Received by the Fa&or, Captain
Kemp, from Falmouth.
LONDON, July at.
KINGS SPEECH.
House of Lords, July 10-
At a quarter before four o'clock, his majesty
being seated on the Throne, with his crown and
robes of state, gave the royal alien: to the bills
upon takle.
The house of commons bemi» ordered to at
tend, presented themselves with their fpe.iker
at their head, who addressed: his majeftv in a
(hmrt fpcerh. He recapitulated briefly the lead
ing measures adopted by the house in the course
of the feflion—the provisions made for the in
ternal security, as well as against external crimes
The public necefiities, he laid, had induced
them to grant fupp'ies to an extraordinary a
mount, but they had been careful to make their
provi(ian» io such a manner as to render them as
liftle btirthenfome as possible to the people. He
concluded with observing, that however painful
the dti'y of voting such large fum-. they had the
coniojftion to think that they would be expend
ed wli the ftri&eft (economy.
His majefly then delivered th» following roost
gracious speech to both houses of Parliament:
My lords and gentlemen, *
I cannot put an end to this session of Parlia
ment without returning yon my most sincere
and t-ordiil thanks for the assiduity and zeal
with which you have-applied yourselves to the
important objecfts which have required your at
tention, audfor the wisdom and firmnrfs which t
you have manifeOed. in the new and dtffisult e
mergencies for which yeu have had to provide.
I null particularly express the just fmfe I en
ertain of the fali;taiy and «Sj«Sual provi lions
which you made for (lengthening tne means of
national defence, and the mttfurrs adopted for
obviating the inconVenienciet which were to be
apprehended to ensue froA the' temporary fuf
penlion of payments in cash by the bank—as
well as r>f the promptitude, vigour, a "d effedt,
with whieK you jTocded me your a(Tnlan r e and
fuppo't 'n fupprcfling the daping and treafona
ble mutiny which "broke out in a part of my
fleet, and in counterailing so dangerous »nd per
nicious an example.
I have the fatisfa&ion to arqtiaint you, that
since the acceflion of. the present Emperor of
Kuflia, the commtreial engagements between
the two countric. have been reßewed in uch a
manner as will. I doubt not, materially conduce
to their mutual interests.
Gentlemen of the house of commons,
I must return you my particular thanks for
the liberal and extensive provision which you
have made for the various exigencies of the pub
lic service j and, while I lament the necessity
which encreafed them to so large an it
is a consolation to me to oblerve the artertion
you employed in diilributisg the heavy burdcfr.s
which they occaConed, in such a manner as to
render their prcfliire as little severe a» puflible
to my people.
N My lords and gentlemen,
The iflue of the important negociation in
which I am eng:ged is yet ui\£ ertain. Bui Wli t
rve'r may be the event, nothing will have bit
wanting, on my part t« bring it to a fuccefsful
terminating en such conditions as may beeonfif
tent with the security, honour, and eflent al in
terests of my dominions. In the mean time, no
thing can so much tend to forward the attain
ment of peace as the continuance of that zral.
exertion and ptibHc spirit, bf which my fu'ijefU
have given such and honorable ;
prorf»,and of which the perseverance and firm
ness of parliament has afforded them fj striking '
an example.
Then the lord chancellor, by his majefly's
command, said
My lord and gentlemen,
It is his majesty's rova! writ and pleafnre, that
this Parliament be prorogued to Thursday the
sth day of Odlober next.
Should pea-e, an event so ardently wilhed
for by all descriptions of nieu, be attained, the
public mind ought to be prepared f«r the
tion of the Alius taken at Toulon by lohl Hood.
Our miniiters have certainly come to that deter
mination ; and we corroborate our,affertion by
the following fadV: That one of the commif-
G iners of the Transport Bo*rd, after a refidonce
of some days at Portsmouth, whither he had
been sent to make a survey, presented within
these very few days, to the Tdulonefe, who ar
rived in the Toulon (hips, an estimate of the va
lue of those captured by lord Hood, to be trans
mitted to the French Dire.ilory, preparatory to
a final adjustment of all differences between the
two countries.
A new writ was moved yefterdav in the com
mons for lord Mornington, who £ » s out to In
dia as governor of Mad-ass.
Another writ was moved for Mr. Anftruther,
who goes out at the fame time as chief justice of
Calcutta-
July 22.
Saturday evening, after attending their par
liamentary duty, the lord chancellor, duke of
Portland, and some other peers, and also the
fpcaker of the house of commons, Mr. Pitt,
Mr. Dundas and some other members, set off
for Beaconsfield, to attend the funeral of the
late £. Burke, esq. which took place that
evening.
Monday Mr. Dressings, the messenger, ar
rived at Dover in en open/boat from Calais,
and reached town at a very late hour on Mon
day night, with dfpatches, from lord MalmeJ
bury. These dispatches are said to be of the
grcatrjl importance. In all probability they
contain the proposals mede by the directory as
the bafts of a pacification. The particulars
of the intelligence cannot be known, "hut report
Jlates it generally to be of a favourable nature.
sl letter from a gentleman at Lisle, dated
July 14. received in a very refpeftable quarter
in town flales, '' 1 arrived here but yejlerday
morning, and I have not yet the means of en
tering tntimately into the train of the negocia
tion, I rejoice however to inform you that per
sons the mofl particularly connected with the
' commission, speak in sanguine and CQnfulent
terms of the issue of the conferences." . Indeed,
the general idea is, that tlx negociation is likely
, to have a favorable termination. The pacific
sentiments and the long diplomatic experience of
the new French dirsUor, Barthelcmy, cannot
fail to have considerable weight with his col
leagues. The puUie epin 'ton in France is
Jlfongly in favor of peace, and the fame wi/hes
for that defiralle evsntprevail in this country.
When these difpefitions fe ioufly exijl, h is an
easy progrcfi of thi mini tq dlfcsver, ihpt the
* ' ' ' -. ' t '
true inter efls if both countries in ti/ts cafe cor
responds with their iilcliu'a.'f;ns.
The French declare jhiil if lue will not
only give up our navy andqitr iani, they will
make us as free as Vetiice itfelf !
Thomas Muir has lately written a letter to
the French dircSory from Cadiz, -where he
is Jli I ditained by tl.c -wounds ht received in
the engagement thaffioot place between the Spa
nijh frigate, on board of -which he was, and
an EtigHJh Jhip. He has lojl an eye, and one
fide of his face is totally disfigured. In other
rcfpeasjie is totally out of danger, and will
■soon fct out for Paris.
From a speech of general Buonaparte, puh
lifhed at Milan, it now appears certain, that
the Cifpadane and Trafpadane republics are to
be united into'one 1 political body, of which Mo
dend, Reggio, Ferrara, Bologna, Romagna,
and probably Brescia, are to form conflituent
parts.
Accounts from Mentz, inserted in the Ham
burgh Gazette, Jlate, that the French troops
who were preparing to quit J*ftdda, have beery
ordered by the directory to refime their for
mer pojition.
The celebrated and once so -wealthy bank of
Vmice has flopped payment, in confeqiieltce of
the revolutionary IranfeSions, which overturn
ed the antient Venetian government.
Wednesday advises were receized from ad
miral Duncan, dated off the Texel on Satur
day lafl. By the 'cutter which brought them,
we have the following Jetter from an officer
on board the fleet —
Off the Texel, July 15, 1797.
" We are flill flationed off here, about five
leagues diflant from the enemy's fleet, which,
according to the observations of an officer who
was sent in lafl IVcdnefday with a flag of truce,
confifls of the following force—
-5 fl't" °f I\gMs
-8 64
6 50
4
8 frigates
2 sloops
4 ir 'g*-
Part of our force is about to return inte
port, and only waits for the reinforcements to
arrive from EnglancT, which are daily expeS
ed. The ships that are going home are the
Prince of 98 guns, Fortaidnble 98, Sans Pa
red 80, Ccfar 80, and Triumph 74. They
are to be relieved by five other men of war of
nearly f.milar force. Our whole fleet conffis
of nine fail of the line and two frigates : and
though so far inferior in metal to the enemy,
wefhould rejoice at an opportunity to give
them battle.""
July 23.
The Paris journals to the 19th and 19th
irtft. state, that the executive diredtory havf
made the following changes in the ministry,
viz. Cochon, mlnifter of police.; Truguet,
of the marine ; Bcnzech, of the interior ;
Petiet, of war; and Charles Lacroix, of
foreign affairs, were diftpiffed, and replaced
the firft by Laroch, the second by Pleville,
the third by Francois de Neufchatea'i, th«
fourth by general Hoche, and' the fifth by
Talleyrand Pcrigord, Merlin, minister of
jut'ee, and Raroel, of the finances, remain
in 'office. Barthelemy and Carnot arc said
to have opposed this arrangement.
Charles Lacroix is to be sent to Lisle to
replug Pleville Pelet. Lenour and Talley
rand Perigord were sworn in their tffcw offi
ces on! the morning of the 18th.
The executive dire&ory have written a
letter to Buonaparte, dated 15th Meffidor,
to the following purport:
The executive direftory thinks, citizen
general, that it is due to the important ser
vices which you have rendered, to manifeflt
to you their fatisfa&ion. It consequently
approves of tbe conduft, both political and
military, which you have adopted, cfpecially
with regard to Venice and Genoa.
CARNOT, President.
LEGARDE, Sec. Gen.
An Hamburgh mail arrived on Friday.
The advices from Vienna state, that the
king of Prussia appears determined to en
force his claims upon certain possessions in
Franconia by dint of arms, and, consequent
ly to set at defiance, the authority'of the au
lic council. Qn the 6th inft. a strong body
of his troops took pofieffion of the fort, and
immediately disarmed the soldiers whom
they found in the barracks.
The new gov rnment of Genoa is fully
eftabliffied, and citizen president Goge now
wears a blue and white scars.
July 25.
We have again to notice the pon-arrival
of any intelligence from France. Ministers
were for the whole of yesterday in hourly
expectation of receiving a dispatch from lord
Malmclbury ; but 110 messenger had reached
town when this paper went to press.
The Ruffian cabinet has ordered its mini
sters at foreign courts -to make fix declara
tions refpeiting the unhappy Poland, and
one of which contains the following article t
" If from motives of hatred, on account
of this treaty of partition and its results, one
of the three high con trailing'parties (hould
be attacked by any foreign power, the two
others promise to join and defend him with,
all their might and power against such at
tack."
The form of organization for the Vene~
tian Terra Firma, which Buonaparte has
published, is of the -following tenor :
1 ft. The Bvefcian is to extend as far as.
the Mincio.
2d. The Veronese is to begin at the Min
cio, and to include the country at Bologna.
3d. The Viceftti.n and Bsffano, with its.
tern' tor)', is t9 form a department by itfeJf.
4th. The Paditan, the polefine of Rovigo
antk as far as the Po, not including
what belongs to the Farraroib, is id form
one single department.
sth. The countries of Feltro, Cadore,
and Bella.lo, are also to form a single de
partment.
6th. The country of Trevifo, excepting
the diftrift of Moftre, is to form a single
department with that of Colla.
7th. The Frioul, fncluding Montfalco«f,
is to form the last department.
Bth. £acb department is :o be goverufSby a central' sfdijitrflil«• j't?oi> cpaip >fel ,of 2
" ' members. Eic'i comirrfine is to hv/? .1 m 1 1
nicipsility, more oy le& numerous, aceorJin'
to its number of inhabitants.
9th. The - central government is to bt
composed of pertmj cnofen by the genera
of division, vvlio coirynands the depart
ment.
10th. Ench central administration is tc
the manner in which justice is tc
be adminitlered.
Bouquet, the French comniiffioner, who
rcquefted the property of the public pawn
of that city and Vicenza, has been tried
by a council of war, and condemned to
seven years imprifonsnent in irons. Drujon,
the commandant of the place, w'no was »c
---ceflary to that arbitrary ail, is degraded,
and rendered incapable of ever serving
again iri a military capacity.
The pension granted to his Polish majesty
is 20,000 ducats per afinum. The abdica
tion of king Sta.iiSh'us Auguftiis, of Po
land, is dated <G-rodno, Nov. 25, 1795,
and signed by that monarch, and the secre
tary of state, prinee Kozlelfk Puzyan.
Yesterday morning dispatches were re
ceived at the ndpiiralty from commodore fir
John Borlafe Warren, containing the pleas
ing intelligence of the under his
command having intercepted a French con
voy, and captured seven {hips, laden with
provifiobs, on theft paflage from Nantz to
Brest, for the purpose of supplying the fleet
at that pprt with their cargoes. The gal
lant and indefatigable commodore, we are
happy to add, has also driven a French fri
gat« on the Penmark rocks, and deftroy'ed
a corvette of 12 guns, and a large vessel
laden with timber, which he could not
bring off. It is but common justice to his
merits to fay, that there is no officer in the
British navy to whose aftivity the country
owes more than to fir John Borlafe Warren.
A report was yesterday received in town,
via Portsmouth, that admiral lord St. Vin
cent'i had an engagement with the Spanilh
fleet, and captured five fail of»the line;
but we are sorry to observe, that the vague
manner in which the rumour cameanto cir
culsticn, Entitles it to very little credit.
The statement, however, is not without
some degree of probability. If we are
rightly informed with refpeft to the nature
of the last dispatches from his lord ship, the
enemy were hourly expected to put to sea
in order to give him battle ; in which cafe,
notwithftandifig the disparity of numbers,
when we consider the superior gallantry and
discipline of our fleet, wc entertain no
doubt of the event having proved honoura
ble to the British flag.
July 29. 1
The hopes we entertained that the pre
sent ftrtiggle between the majority, of the
Legiilative Body and the Direftory would
not affeft the public tranquillity, are rather
disappointed by the last Paris papers, which
seem to announce a more serious result of
that conflift than we were inclined to expect.
We have not been negligent of any oppor
tunity that might offer to inform ourselves
of what# is pafling at Lisle ; but the follow
ing letter which we yeflerday received from
a gentleman'there, shews the difficulty'of as
certaining any thing very correft respecting ■
the negociation.
" Sir, " Lisle, July 25.
" I received your letter, wherein you
desire me to fend you a Bulletin refpefting j
• the state of the negociaticms, carried on by
Lord Maltnefbury and the French plenipo- 1
tentiaries.
" I fliould feel extremely happy to satis- !
fy you on this point, but nothing transpires
of what is passing that can be depended on ;
and I fliould not wish to mislead you. To
prove "to you with how much secrecy the
negociation is conducted, I mnft inform you
that even the French plenipotentiaries do ;
not fee each other but at the time and placs
of their, fittings, that when they meet they j
communicate their ideas and observations in j
writing to one another, and receive the an- 1
Avers in the fame manner ; which, at the |
close of the fitting are sealed up, and the j
plenipotentiaries withdraw.
" This is all we know of the negociation,
and consequently it is utterly impoflible that
any public print should give-the least infor
mation on this head which can be relied on.
Lord Malmefbury and Le Tourneur never
fee each other but on matters of business,
when a note is always previously sent, re
queftingj an interview."
J ul y 3 1 -
Mr. Brookes, the mefienger, is returned
to Lisle ; he failed fropi Dover on Friday
afternoon on btiard the Prince'of Walespack.-
et. We understand that in future the French
packets are to bring the meflengers with .
dispatches to our government: the English
packets will therefore only be employed to
carry over the mefTengers going to Lisle.
An order for the execution of the muti- |
ncers of the Sandwich was sent off from th®
admiralty 011 Friday last, and early on Sat
urday morning they were all, 17 in number 1
removed from the Neptune to the ■ Sand
wich at Sheernefs. Four of them have '
been reprieved ; the remainder are to be '
hanged to-morrow morning at 9 o'clock. J
August 1. I
Yesterday the Hon. Mr. Wefley, brother :
of lord Mornington, and secretary of em- I
taffy, arrived at the secretary of date's of- c
sice, with difpatehes from Lord Malmefbury. 1
He left Lisle on Saturday afternoon, and
came to £)over on board the Diana packet. e
/ We have rcjfon to believe that he brings the 1
answer of the executive direftory to Hhe last a
proportion of our court, but that nothing 1
that can be. relied on has transpired : an j'
letters by the packet, and even the printed
journals, were stopped at Dover. There
cannot be a doubt that Mr. Wefley's errand
here concerns some very delicate points res-
pefting the progress of tjie negotiation, v
which perhaps, could not be well commur.i- l
cated by ordinary dispatches ; but, whether
of such a nature as are likely to facilitate or 1
.retard the conclusion of peace, it would be .
vain to cftiijcftur?.
Earl St. Vincint's attack on Cadiz is 1
-23 , consrtied by Icfcters reaeiyci 'ycforday.
'i" the Lisbon mail. The letters enter into
ig particulars, but merely (late that the Brit
{ admiral had demanded a sum amounting
be twelve hundred thousand pounds as a ranfc
al for sparing the city,
t- Yesterday at noon'difpatches were recei
ed at the office of the secretary of the a
to miralty, at Whitehall, from admiral E:
to St. Vincents, which were brought over 1
the packet with the Lisbon mail. Thi
10 aie dated on board the Ville de Paris m;
ni it j?f war, off Cadiz.
■d We are very apprehertfive that one of tl
:o packets, viz. the Carteret, is taken.
11, The numbers of French and Dutch priv
teers that at present infefl the North sea, a
i, incredible, and they have a great de
ig of mifchief.
| The French who have long threatened 01
:y . little establishments at Sc. Marcon, ha'
1- j now mustered formidable arrangements f<
3- I dispossessing us of those islands ; two frigate
), ' two corvettes, and between 30 and 40 gn
e- ; boats, of them carrying mortars, wit
j 1500 men, are in readiness at Havre for th
service; moorings have been laid down in
ir ; ny river, where this fqupdron is to
f- j and watch the abfenee of our frigates, vij
is f the Stag, Pearl, Flora, and Cynthia flooi
1-1 when no effeftive opposition could be mad
h their attack : In the event of succeeding 1
0 tnefe islands, the squadron is to proceed t
t St. 'Maloes, to join in an expedition about t
- be undertaken against Jersey and Guernfe)
e Anguft 2. /
The honorable Mjr. Wefley, who arrive
d from Lisle late on Monday night, is aj:
:1 pointed to an eminent situation under hi
t brother lord Mornington; who goes ou
s governor of Madras. Mr. Ellis succeed
e Mr. Wefley, as secretary to the embafly 1
f Liflt.
Of the intelligence received by govern
, ment from lord Malmefbury, the differen
- papers affett to be variously informed ; fom
1 dating it to be favorable and others not so
RefpetVing the detnands of the directory be
; ing we have no doubt ; as also, tha
- the British are not disposed t<
accede to all their terms, we shall not dif
t pute ; but what conclusion can be drawr
• from this ? Not any ; for the informatioi
; itfelf is nothing. Neither in France noi
; England has a syllable on the fubjeft of th<
1 negociation been fuffered to traufpire offici
, ally.
! PLYMOUTH, July 30.
i This afternoorn arrived in the Sound, hia
. majesty's fliip Kangaroo, of 18 guns, Hon.
Courtney Boyle, commander, from Gibral
-1 tar, with dispatches for government, with
which he set off from Falmouth for London
: this morning: file left Gibraltar on the toeh
1 inft, and arrived at Cadiz the l3thfollow
• ing; on her pafTage she captured a small
1 Spanish vessel, that had flipt out of Cadiz
: with inftruftions to go in quest of the Lima
ships, which (he left with the fleet under the
command of Lord St. Vincent; they were
1 moored close in with Cadiz on the" 14th,
when the Kangaroo "failed from thence, and
every night they bombard the shore bymeans
of boats, &c. &c. They have done some
.; mifchief, _and kept the Spaniards in a cor
ftant state of alarm : a shell from the shore
fell,into the Vi&ory's launch and funk her,
by which a few men are said ,to hav.e loft
| their lives; the Spanish fleet are very strong
| in the harbour of Cadiz, but fliew no difpo
, fition to attack the English; the Kangaroo
j on her voyage from Cadiz, recaptured a vef-
I fel from Newfoundland, but flie is not yet
arrived.
HULL, July 22.
tr hxpksss.
London, li'cdnrfday evening,
July. 19, 7 o'clocl.
| The calitut council which was held ihit
nterAiflg on the lujl dijpaiche received fn*m
lord Malmejlmry on Sun flay Inft ditcrmir.-i: by
1 a conjlderable rhejbrify on a prosecution of
j the war, rather than fubrr.it to the unreason
, abla demands of the French direftory. Mr.
i Pitt, I'jrd Grenville, and Mr. Dunaas were
I the onh advocates for peace. *
The -parliament is expired to be prorogued
to-morrow. If not then, Hk, Friday certain.
FALMOTT ! H, July aB.
Thi» morning aTive.d his rrfajefty** pstket
Artolphiii, cipt. John Botilderfon, from
I.ifbon, with the mail and dispatches, after a
fialfige of 14 days, luTing met with adverse
win !« during the whole paflage.
The captain fiato, thai 011 tht 17th inft. ad'
mirj lord St. Vincent, having exhaufttd his
p t ence by remaining so long in the
adl of blockading Cadiz—gave orders for some
of the fleet to unmoor, and get in as dole to Ca
diz asthey pofTibly could. He.afteru ard» opened
a Unflc fire on part of Cadiz, which was loon
levelled to the ground.
The Spanish fleet had all previotiflv flipped
for cut) their cable*, being fail of the line,
besides frigates, and had all run up for Ihelter,
under the Carracc-as.
A mutinv had broken out a' Lisbon on board
his niaj«fty's (loop of war King's Fisher, capt.
Maitland, who was then on shore. Immediately
on .hearing of this, the captain went on boatd,
ordered the crew to be called all or. derk, and
afted them what they wanted They (aid " No
thing !" tut hifTed and behaved insulting. Capt.
Maitland'immediate'y told them the coufrquen e
and begged of them to repair to their duty—
Finding all he could possibly fay inefFeSual, the
captain drew his dirk, and told th:rji, if they
would not by fair means, thev mult by "force.—
On; man endeavouring to lay hold of him, was
run through the body, and anither was wound
ed, who died next day. Seven others were (light
ly wounded in the fcuffl:. The ring'eaders are
all secured and put in irons. She failed from
LIE? n, and. according to report, was boundto
join lord Si. Vir.ctnf.
1 he Exchange at L (bon was-at 74.
PARIS, July ty
blithe letter'from the pcrtsof the republic co- '
incide in auromitirg the extr< me , emharaffment !
which previdf «v.-ry wher-.-Wit?! refpfA to our re- i
Ihrions " ■ i.h tlic United States cf America. V/e
r'o wj;t hsrwe are at war or peace with
that country, anci-cenf.-qututl} all our co nm.'Vcfal 1
oprratioui.. -.vitli Annri a ar-c-in a state cf llugna- I
tion. ' ■ . I
I.'etters holli from general Cf-rVe, our agent in
Italy, and f'«m die Marqoisdt Ga.lo, the pltni
b} potehtUry of the emperor, ftatt iu the most pofi.
no five terms, thit La Fayette, as weilashisfellow
ifH ar « fee a» lit>*rty.
i 'We hot loisj since anncunced the degartti'e Of a
t0 fq'uadron from Toulon- It is now believed that its
)Iri deftiiiation is Corfu, in'lhe Adriatic—anfthat.it
there he joined by fyvc n ihip«, and as many
i'v- frigates, that are a'rea.iy in that port,
id- , The official note of the nomination os-Lord
j Mkleftury O-ys. that his mt'jefty ■ ohftitute-, him his
j" - ' plenipotentiary to negotiate and conclude a peace
□V with the plenipotentiaries of the French republic,
ey [t .« to be retimrkei, that tlu« is the firit'aifl in
an which the Eugli.r.. government lias made use of
this title.
) , Letters from Basle, of the 4th July, that
' le the spirit of revolution js miking daily progrelsin
that country.
a- Letters Irrm Manrua of the Bth ult mention the
re arrival of iic<> French troops there. Gen. Buo
,aj naparte had written to the municipality to raile a
military regiment there, and to mr.ie every nectf
fary arrangement for the uftion of the Duchy of
Ur Mantua to the Cifaljiineffpullic, A! an indemni
ve ty fQr tjhc lafs.of the emperor W"to re
nr ceiveagreat part of the territory, and
the limits of his pofteflidns are to he marked by
s ' the Piave.
in L.erer« from Genoa announce the rccal of all
Lh the miniflers rcfidcrt at foreign courts;
US namely, Cellopa at Madrid, the envoy at Vienna,
T _ and Spinola at Londcn. The latcer was at Paris
a few days ago, and yasordered by the dire&ory
n > to quit the capital ia 14 hours. Vincent Spinola
?• has alio been recalle.', ana the pronfional govern
p, ment of Genoa has/echofen Boceardi. At Genoa
lef frY * r Y th'Pg is in the bell train. Gaiety is depi&ed
J£ in every countenmce The tree of liberty has <
been planted in she square of the opera h.cufe,
0 ' where the only riprefcntationsare republican dra
o nu« and tragtdits.
COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED.
>d ' Sit ing of July I*.
>. T hc ori * fr :he tor difiruffion of the
ful.j-(3 of popular societies being called for, Du- [•
ls piantitr obfemd, that they arc contraiy to the cdn
it ftitution", tlnwkey tend to restore the reign of terror
Is and anarchy, and are arsenals r.f infurreAion, rear*
it: ca f - r thc purpefc of overturning the present gov
ernment. He acknowledged, that they had been
. of material use in ellabliffiing the revolution, but
'"I said, that the crimes commi-ted by these foci, tics,
t outweighed the advantages derived from their iu
e ■ llitution, and that the confti'.utioß ought to be'no
longer left at the lifcretion of these dangerous so
■ ci ties " Where whs tyranny burn ?- Where did
it fin the mod zealous !ate,l|ite« ?" said Reu bel, in
* the courl'e of lalt Bnimnir«, "at iht Jac jhitis."
0 . " Who has covered Frurioe with crime*. lioftihtien,
. I and IcafJolds ?—the Jacobins. You cannot poffrfj
j | P u M'e liberty, as long as you have Jsrofcim among
j y oa and I add, ' as lo«g as you Jiave popular
societies and conflijntiouai circles, you will never
r fee the emp.re of the laws cftabhlhed jn France."
ej Duplantier concluded with proposing the projefl
. of a law, purpoitinf in fubftUKe, that meetings
a tumbled for thc purpoft of dit'eufiinf poltical i
qutftiona of citizens who have resided I
in the commune a twelvemonth and upwards, and ,
that the lumber oT" persons aifeii'.bled {hall not ex- !
1 ceed ten, in commune* of 5000 fouls, nor ao in 1 ]
. commune* ol from SOCO to 20,000 fouls. In Pa
ris, th«y {hall not eiceeii 40 persons.
Coupe, of the North, spoke againfl thisprojefl.
Ih hisopinion, to speak of popular societies waste
1 call them into exigence. ]
1 Berrenger found the project extremely ridicu
lous, which observation drew forth thc molt vio- r
lent murm:rt. . . v
Vaublanc and Dumelard spoke in favor of the J
the projeft. The former obfarved, that the con- J
flitution knew of none but private focietiea, and ]
did not need any foreign afliftance t<) crulh its ene
mies ; and Dumolard coatended that the hew so- 1
tieties are revolutionary dens, where plots are
hatched for pi'liye and a.TalDnition (Nort ) 1
Bailleul left his feat, and in the utmost
agitation proceeded towards the tribune.
" The petiod of popular societies is gone,"
continued Dumolard, " to be in revolution
is one thing, and to Jive in peaceful times
another. The project is of the utmost ur- ]
gency ; you mull chain down these hordes
of brigands." " 1
Bailleul mounted the tribune in a fit of
rage, which drew bursts of laughter from
different parts of the hall. Assuming then
an attitude as if he were going to jump
ddxvn from thc tribune, he. alked—" Who
are the agitators ?"—" The Jacobins," was
the general cry. Bailleul, in the utmost
| fury, " Is it the Jacobins who are organiz
ing mafacrcs in every part of the repub- I
lie,'"—" v'es, yes!" exclaimed a great
hiajority of the council. "Is it by tJn hands
of Jacobins, that streams of are <hed
at Lvdns, as Marseilles, at Taulow "Is 5
it ftiife," exeliiraed most of the mtir.bers.
( The fitting becoming now extremely-tu
multuous, th« co'uncil closed the difeufiion,
i ar.d ordered the projeft to be .printed, and
1 adjourned.
The difcuflion on the liberty of religious
worship being resumed, Jourdan, the
months of the Rhone, spoke in favour of
the projeft of the commifftp,n.The coun
cil ordered his fpeeeh to be printed, and
three copies to be distributed to each mem
ber.
July 2 7.
The following art? the details of the bom- w
bardment of Cadir: ,
011 the 3d July, signals announced that
the English fleet which blocks up the port, g.
and is still at anchor in the road, had receiv
ed three bombards: admiral Maffarcda sent N
fix gun boats under the fort of St. Sebafti-
an, to prevent the English from approsich
ing, and gave Gen. Gravenat, his second e>
commander, she conduct of this action, tin
officer of n-.evi,!, and much e(teemed. At a
quarter from eleven an English bombard, • v
fupperted by a fliip of the line, a frigate,
and some (loops, furilifiied with mufqueteers,
approached St. Sebastian, and threw fever- Jfc
at bombs iiUa the to\vn,one of which fell up- fcu
on a house in tne street Marguie; the pt;r
lons who lived in it being at fuppcr, left it ji°
j for fear. - Another bomb fell upon a house .
of La Lanulla, where there is a public
walk; a child was killed, the mother going
to its afliftance, fell into the fiole made by the
bomb, and was hurt, and another child
which (he was nursing died of the fall. Gen.' '
Gravenat charged wfrh the 'defence of she
town, in these cireumftances, (hewed great
presence of mind, and was well feebnded;
he made some gun-boats, which were pro
tected by fort St. Sebaltian, advance, they
came in time to do To much datpage tq a w
bombard, as to oblige the English tq let her T
go to the bottom, not being able to get her
off. JThe frigate was wounded in the mnft, S(
the (hip received two balls, and the mqrtars
of this place beingVell employed, they did SI
not faftcr them to approach nearer. Tliey
then sheered off, and ceased fireing at half Si
pad twelve p'clock, but the Englifii gun-
'oS- boats furround c ,-l, and took two SpaniZh
ow " gun-boats whicß were; ffparated from the
°f a the actions the Captains
tits <>' which (brave officers) were killed. The
it.it Engli(h fleet on the 4th received a.reinforce
any tnent of five or fix gun-bosts, but measures
,ord are ta^en f° r repelling them. At three
1 hi? o'clock of the morning the women and c-hil
:ace dren left the town, t and went from two to
• lie. four leagues into the. countrys it cost a
' person 120 livres for j place in a calash;
" u boats were dear '1 n proportion. On the
hat light of the sth the bombardment commen
"sin ced with more obstinacy than before; bom
bards were placed betweeafort Saint Sebaf
'■w ' ian al Peere. The gun-boats Vere
fc° a " repelled. The EngliOi threw near, two
:i*f- 'boufand bombs, which did (light damage,
sos but in a commercial city this-event excited
ini " ths greatest consternation. The fire ceased
iTd <Tt our °' e ' oc '' c °f the morning—L'Hiito
by rian -
all NEW-) ORK, September 12.
ts; From a late London Paper.
na, Married, on Wednesday lajl, J. Quitter
ir" e fl- ambajfador from the -United
ola States of America to the court of Berlin, and
rn- sonf on °f John Aa.iuv, Prejident of the Unit
oa ed States, to Mtfs Louisa Johnson, fccond
•'d daughter of Jo/hua John/on, esq. of Great
V as Tower Hill.
:fe,
ra-
IVe are informed by a gentleman who came
pqfenger in the FaGor, that jujl before they
failed, a vejfel from Lijbon brought intelligence
that earl St. Vincent had talen three Spm'jh
, u ' si 'tp s °f war, and had laid Cadiz under con
n_ tribution.
or Three per cent, csnfuh in London, on the
r- 2d of Augufl, 52 3-8/ta.
V" '»■■■—.■ » . . »MPM
CII —— {
t Xije Gazette*
Jo PHILADELPHIA,
m Wednesday EVENING-, September 13.
I" CITY HOSPITAL REPORT7~
From the 12th to 13thSept. i:i themorningt.
'' Admitted, (ince last report,
1? Jobn Bathurft, a strange negro from New
:r York.
Jane McKinley, George Cummin's Plumb
a street.
•J ; Patrick Rawe, Mr. Gurks Crooket Billet
j wharf.
d . Nancy Doyle, Fourth street, a few doors
:- ; below the College.
B Israel Vanleur, Relief alley, between Front
and Second.
Hannah Jackson,. Third street, \ between
a Shipped and South.
Luke Williams, Shippen, by Fourth street.
Died since last report.
Thomas Lefby, admitted 10th inft. \
e John Chapman,4th.
. Joseph Wood, nth.
i Israel Vanleiur, 2 hours after admission.
~ t Remaining last Report 52
Admitted fiuce, 7
59
» Discharged None
a Died 4 4
" Remain inHofpitaJ, [Con^c a j
Interred in City, Hospital burying ground 1
f since last report t—
-1 From the city and suburbs 4
, From the city hospital , 4
j Total 8
s Stephen Girard, '
I (Signed) Caleb Low^ies,
John Connelly. 1
- Published by order of the Board,»
t JOHN MILLER, Jun. ,
s Chairman. 1
j
s Totals of burials for 48 hours, ending Man- (
dj/y at fidsn. j
St Paul's 2 AtJults
First Presbyterian a Children
Sectnd Pr«(hyt<Tian 1 1
Scotch Pre/byt.riati 1 ) I » 1
Friends t ]
s Swedis 1 t
; • Girtuaii I.utiieran I
( Methodists I
City Hospital* 16 {
. ~ '
1 Total 11 s c
* Nine of tlxft frutt thi tity. }
r
DI2D, ycflerday morning, Capt. JohnLock
wooq, failing reader, of the frigate Until States, 1
cf 44 gun 6 The death cf able aud cxperi-
e»ced officer is a great loss to the service. t
< , 011 Friday last, Mr. Lewis List, Meffen- J
ger to the War Office of the United States.
,on Mo.iday morning, Mr. [ohm Tea- *
nek. a native of inland, clerk to Mr- Siuion c
Walker. . f
evening, Manus M'Gee : His death was c
Occasioned by the falling of a spar on his e
head, a few ago, which fradtured his c
(kull. His parents are poor people, and live
in the neighborhood of Pennsylvania.
RECEIVED fiom Mr. Andrew Hannis, as a \
donation for the Poor at the Tents,'one hundred [j
bundles of draw, one barrel of flour, one bushel
cfpotjt)cs, and half a bulhel of onions. Would
to God ctjier citizens would come fowara With the
fahae libtral spirit. 6
Antmonv Whioht,fj
Roßf-aT.Mor.HELi., S SuperintmJants. f,
Datin Tuomas, )
GAZETTE MARINE LIST. '
Pout cf Philadelphia.
No arrivals yesterday or to-d#y.
A barque is in the fiver,below the fort :
whete from is not known. 'I
The following vtffels are captured, by the
Jamboud French privateer, capt. Tett.
Schr. Maria, King* from Antigua for A
lexandria.
Ship Pgjly. aiuVNaircy, M'Knight, from fit. f (
Übes for Alexandria. . ;c<
Schooner Adventure, Doak, 14 days out ii
from Neyv-Vork for St. Bartholomews.
, , New-York, September 12."
,e ... T , a Tr Bays
18 Sil 'PFaaor, Kemp, London
. Pour Sifters, White, Liverpool 63
Apollo, Lormg, Hull 6(
;s , Commerce, , S t. Kitts
:e Barque , Ha!ifijx
1- Brig Hannao, Rubins, Hull C 7
° Rebecca, Brown, Hirre-de Grace
a The fliip Industry, cant. Budd, of this
i ; Port', at London, in 3 o days from
Le Virguua.
i- The /hip Mohawk, capt. Moore, has ar
l- rived at London from the Bay.
f- ihe Hup Edinburgh, Darghmsii, arrived
e at L,eith June 22.
0 The Light Horse from Bristol to New.
;, 1 ork ; the Lrifeis and the American He
d from Amsterdam to America, the Har
d riot, from Charleston to Bremen ; the Ca
1. tharine,. frnm Alexandria-to Kambro ; the
Mercury from Norfolk to Bremen ; and the
Mary, from Boston to Naples, are taken by
the French and carried into Nantes. Seve
ral other American vessels are reported to be
r captured.
1 The Jenny, from New-York to the East
Indies, has b.een feenip possession of a French"
" privateer, a»d carried to St. Martins, Me
* of'Rhe.
' The Sally of Boston, Wadfworth-, from
Boston to Hambro, taken and carried into
the fame place.
' Ships spoke with at sea by the Fa&or from
v London,
f August 18, spoke (hip Alexander Ha
' milton from Liverpool out 20 days, in lon.
2 +> 4 1 ' 3°' bound to Balriri>ore«
23d, spoke the /hip Clothier from Liver
pool bound to Philadelphia, 26-days out,
in long. 27, 30, lat. 41, 30, bound'ta
Baltimore.
26th, spoke the /hip Difpatc'u from Li
verpool to New-York, out 30 days, in lon.
43, 30, Ist. 42, 24.
.Sept. 4, spoke the brig Salem, of ahd
f rom Salem, capt. Plevie, out 10 days,
bound to Bourdeaux, lat. 41, 45, Icpg.
56, 00.
The Two Friends, Gardner, left Lon
don the day the'Fattor if ft Gra»efend
The ship Belvider?, Ingraham, was to fail
5 or 6 days after the Factor.
The American schooner Bet fey and Jen
ny, capt. Young, from America, ladeh with
lumber, arrired at Plymouth, O. E. on the
29th July. She h*d been taken by a French,
privateer at the entrance of the Eritifh chan
nel, and 4 hands put on board, bus captain
Young rdfeon them and put them adrift in
a boat in the Channel.
The American /hip Illustrious President,
capt. Kerr, arrived on the 17 th July, at
Cowes, fiom Batavia.
Capt. Brown of the Rebecca, spoke on
Tusfdsy last the /hip Manehefter, from Phi
ladelphia to Rotterdam, out 8 days.
m
Boston, September
Arrived/Hip Franklin, Chaffee, St. Übes,
J 8 days.
Sept. 6, arrived this day, brig Fame,
Tilden, Surinam, 43 days. Left there th«
following vessels, viz. Friends, Endicot,
Salem, Sally, Randal, Boston ; floopDif
patcn, Davis, Cape Ann.
Aug. 19, lat. 32, 44, bag. S 5, fell in
with the wreck of a brig, about 189 tons,
difrr.afted, bowsprit only /landing, no per
son on board, and full of water, swimming
with her cabin windows partly under water,
could not ascertain her same. September
2, lat. 40, 43,. long. 67, spoke fehooner
Mary, from Boston, bound to St. Croix,
out 3 days
Brig Free Mason, Cobb, Jamaica, 6a
days—nothing new.
Brig Defiance, Jenkins, Martinique.
Capt. Jeh.Jni of the brig Defiance, on
his passage from Martinique, was captured
by pne of tbofe freebooters, modemly de
nominated, «« privateer." After the
usual inciting,examination, the -valiant cap
tain of the corsair, took every person from
the b«g. except the captain and cooF, and
put on board, a prize matter, 3 inferior ma
rauders, and 2 blaelcs, which had been ta
ken from an American veffelprcvioufly oap
tured—and then ordered the prize for St.
Domingo. After being completely clear
of the privateer, aud witljiij 30 miles of the
island of capt. Jenkins, Saving
concerted a plan with the two blacks, and
his cook, embraced a favourable moment,
rose upon the Frenchman,; and gained entiro
possession of his vefiel, without the fliedding
of any blood. He then hoisted out hi*
boat and putting some provifiojis, &c. on
board, pompelifd the pirates to embark and
proceed for (hore. Capt. J. then altered his
couife, and fleered homeward, where he is
fafely arrived to receive the thanks of tfcofc
whole property he has preserved, and the
congratulations of his friends, at his narrow
escape from the inhuman fleecers of Ameri
can failois.
September 7.
Arrived, fchr. Dispatch, Blackmoor,
Cape de Verds, 38 days. Pafienger, Mr.
Williams. • In the Gulf fell in with an Eng.
li(h fleet from the Weft-Indies homeward,
apparently confiding of about 300 vessels.
Ship Thomas and, Sarah, Nicfiols, Ruffi?.,
60 days. Aug. 30, lat. 43, long. 62,
spoke '/hip Three Friends of New-York,
from Amsterdam for New-York, out 50
days. Sept. 6, lat, 42, 23, long. 69,
spoke fchr. Amity, Chatley, from Lisbon,
for Porftfmouth, out 60 days. Sept. 6,
spoke brig Union, froui Kennebeck, for
St. Croix.
Ship- Hercules, Bridges, Bourdeaux, 50
days.
' 1 „r
Infilrance Company of the /kate
of Pennsylvania.
•"T'HE Office will be Ihpttont'il further notice t,S
1. tj c hcho'el Houfi in Germ'antown. Tj s
Company fiiU rrtain the room in Chelnut, above
Scv nth ftrret, whi-re a ptrfon will att ndtors*-
c> i e and give ufwers to applications, *vcry day
ffcm 10 until I o'clock.
Etpt.lJ if xrr,tWe l> yht Aki reward.
AN a-T'-.y fron-1 the fubfciil-er, an indented
|\ Servant Girl, 'r.'.med Naxct " Nn'.'.RsuN, a- J
ijont twenty year* of age, snort, thick set. ysrfon,
wuHftcrt black hair i badon whert fiiewtt.t&way, A
n ilatV • -llico gown, an old black fi!k Bo.it, anil a
t>l;ick fur hat. Whoever will ficur j Jail girl, an J ■"
y'-ji ink'rmntion thereof to t.V.e iob/cribcf, No. 2,
Ciecnletf alley, or -to the office of this Gazette, tl
{hnll vecsivt -above reward. ,i:
Ali pcrl'ons are forbid Inrboring said girl, ak u
t' ey willba dealt with as the law direds T
MARY ANDERSON-,
IJ, B. said Girl is from Ireland, ar.d lias been u
■ thi»-<Quntry but a short time j the w-as f. Nt to ihs
wcrk-houfe for mifcouduft, where i.t was taken
l'ck and removed to ti.e city-hofpitil, from which
plage fte made tier escape.
AmU 3°- fo?t
l o be i'old at Public Vendue,
To the height (I bidder, at the houf; of Mr.
William Evans, the sign of tfie Indian
Queen, in the city of Baltimore, on rtie 15th
day of Otfdber next, at u o'clock, A. M
About seven tlioufaad acres of (a.-.d,
the property of William Dell, of i hi.a.ltrlphia,
lyfing bttwetn Keifter's-town and VVeitniinllii',
commonly called Little VVinchrlter, (tiie turn
pike roid runs through a 1 ftnfidsrabie part of
these lands) the trarf begins about 17 railes ]
from fejltirocriN within a few ha-.idred yards ]
of faui'KeiiUr's-town, and extends to the dil-j
l?nce of about twenty-three miles from Balti- ;
r-.ore, and lies on the main falls of Patapfico /
river, from three to four miles thereon. Will.
be fold in trails of one hundred ar.d fifty to
t(irce hundred iLre. There is a large propor
tion of meadow and wood land on eath tradl,
forne rtf theirt highly improved, with cxcelleiK
buildings and titiegrjfs.
At SO
A tract of seven hundred acres of (
laud, called Clover Farms, wjthin five miles of ,
Bhdenfhurg, efleemed very good for Grass. |
Richard Ponfonby.of Bladeiiburgh, will !hew , ,
ibis land to any person inclined to purchase. ~]
also, I 1
A traft of land of about three hun
dred and.thirty acres, within abeut two m:les
and a half ol the President's house in the Fede- !
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fire
high profpeflj iron, whieh may be fcen the
city of Wafhingtcn, Bladenlburgh, Alexandria .
and a part of Oeorge'-town, aiid msny miles
riown the Potoir.'ac river. Mr. Richard I'or.fou- ,
by, of Dladeniburg, will »ICj feew this land.
' A liberal credit will be. given for the greatcft
part of thp purothsfe money. ;he terms will . t
be made known On the day «f Tale.
May 8 wrr > .
Just Received,
From Batavia (via Providence)
a few Boxes of &picci, coniifting of
Nutmegs, Cloves and :.tace
For sale by
KILLINGS & mJXGIg,
Pcnn flreet.
May I
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street.
GEORGE DAV IS,
BEING busied for fgmc time yaft in prepara
tions' for removing into h s prr!cnt 1
been under theneceiStyot pollp ninguntil thfs day
informing the gentlemen o.'the Par generally thro"
the UaittJ States, that his fprirg importation of
law bonks is now arranged and ready for lale, on
tcrinsthat he trtifts will *utitlehini to the like pra
frtence he has experienced for Wveral years pait.
Catalogues, combining the moll varied collet
tion ever imported iato this country, are printe-1
and Will be delivered on application. ,
June 17. ' taw 6w
City Gommijftoners'' Ojfice, .
Jtwe »», 1797.
IN purfuanre of an ordinance from the fele£l
and common councils, pallid the Ijd day of
May last, appointing the city cisrrimiffionert,
and prtferihing their duxits, fe<3ion 9th,
NO TICE IS HEKEBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diftrifls,
each to be under tf»t fuperintendance of one of
the city commifficners, whois to be individually
responsible fo* - the clewilineT. of the fame,»and
are as follow.
Driftridl No. 1. From the fonth fide of Ce
dar-street, to the north fide <>f Sptnce (treet, un
dtulie fuperiptendeoce of Nathan Beys.
i. From the north fid* cf Spruce-rtreet, to
the north fide of Walnut-street, under the
iutendcnce ef Hugh llob*rts.
3. From the nortji of Walnut to thefouth
fide of under the lupenntendenee of
Joleph Claypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-street, to" the
north fid.* of Mulberry street, under the fuper
intcndrncc rf William Moulder.
j. From the north fideof Mulberry-ftrcet to
thetiorth tide of Vtjie-ftreet, under the fuper
intertdence of Nicholas? Hicks.
The cleaningof High-llreet to be in commot.
A fiated meefing of the city commifiion
ers is held at the Old Court House, in High
ftrcet', every Tuesday evening at 5 o'clock
Julv t4- eoim
Stands for Draymen, Zs\\
Jit purfwtnet of an Ordinance from thtSelefi and
Common Councils,bearing date the lid day of«
Jtprll, 1797. providing for the appointment of
City Commi//foKerj, i?e. He ft. the 1 stb.
r J'HE following places are fi*ed upon by the
i said City Commilfionarß for Stands for
Crsynen and their Horses.
In Vine-flreet, eallward of Front-street, on
both fides.
Saffyfras, High,Chefnut .-nd Walnut-fttreets,
of Front-llreet, on the no.'th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide frsm Front t»
Third-ftrect'.
Front-llreat, east fide from Vine-street to
filfrith'. alley.
Front-ilreet, fram to Black Horfeal-
Icyto Ilamilton'6 (lores, east fide.
' • Water-ftt'eet, weft fide from the north end of
Stamper's or Moori-'s stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to CeJar-llreet, welt
fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Fronf-flreet,
Spruce, Pine and South streets, nftof l'rojf
street, south fide.
• Doak-ftreet, between Walnut-street and the
flag stone cruffings, east fide, opposite George
Orklev's. '
Seeond-ftreet, between SafTifras ayd Vina
ftretts, weft fide.
Fil'tli-ftreet, call fide from Jo Mul
berry flreet"!.
from Third to Fourth-ftrcet,
eall Me.
No dray or horse to stand w'iihin tec ftet of
any pump.
s'f.n ns for hac::xet coaches.
Ptne-ftrett, north fide from Fourth to Fiftl)
fliec*";.
lufth-ftrietj between Clicfnut and Walnut
streets, well.
tiarth £ie, between Third and
Fourth streets.
July if. raw&fim
A Literary Treat.
jujl pttbllfbed, hahdfomefy printed on zvriihig
paper, price I dollar, •
A new edition of that popular ami entertaining
work, writitled
HPHE FORESTERS, an AnWican ¥»ie ; being
i. u i'cqu:! to the hitlory of John .Bull, the Clo
thier—ln aferiesof letters to a IriencT, with the ad- &
.IkloTi of tv\o letters, alluding to recent political
truncations in Amcris:*.
The following extra& from the Clavis Altagori.ra,
(hews the principal ehara&erschat sec introduced:
John Bull* thr: Kingdom of England
Hi> Mother, the Church of iingtefcd
His Wile, the Parliament
Hi& Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotlasd
His Brother Patrick, Ireland
Lewis,theKingdom of France
His Miilrelfe, rJie OM Constitution
Hi: new Wife, the .National Keprefentation
Lord Struts die Kingdom of Spain
J'icholiis Frog, the Dutch Repuoiic J
The Franks, the French Republic r ;1
The the United Stares of Am«ri< a ~~
Robtrt Lumber, N* w-Hampfhire It
John Codline, Maflachufetts 3 -
* Humphrey PlowfWe, Connecticut
Roger Carrier, Rhode hi and 4 c
Peter Dull Frfcg, New-York
Julius Caesar, freyf-Jerfey
William Broadbrita, Pennsylvania til
Cafljmar, Delaware th
Walter Pipewood, Virginia bt
Hi# Grundfon, George Washington
, / Petfir Pitch, North Carolina m
, Charles fadlgo, r -nutk Carolina b<
George Triifty, Georgia . et
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky th
BJack Cattle*, Negro Slaves \\
Rats,, Speculators Ic
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins fq
Jy* This popular and entcrtairingftitiricalhifto- t\
ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr Ebl- si'
knap, it haiagreat (hare as originality and a- j w
bounds with genuifte humour. It is continued j tl*
down to the present time, and charadterifes those l
'.late paliticsl transaCtions which have caused so
muck uneaCnefs in America. • ir
SoM by H. and P. RlCß.'Bookf.ller, No. 15, t l
South Second Stitet, and No. 50, Marke* ftaeet.
June ih. 5
LAW BOOKS,
Latefl London and Dublin Editions.
H. Iff P. liICE\ Book/tilers,
No. 16, Sccorld, and No. 50, Market street, L
iH AVE just reiciTed by the late arrivals from C
London and Dublin, theii fpriuvf import a- a
tion, confiftiDg of a variety of the Utett and most
approved 1 aw Books, added to those alrea
dy 011 hand, forms the most extensive collection ev
er offered for fa'e in this country. They thei efore
beg leave t-o r.otia*, that from the nature of their 1
connexions in Duo!in, they arc enablad to felllrifh
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very f
loweff prices. The follotviug are among the lauft c
publications. 1
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, i t
Peakc's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports t
in the time of Lord H*rdwicke ; t'loyer's Probers j I
Pra&ice in the F.cclefiaftical Courts ; Barton's | 1
Treatise on a thiit in Equity; Tidd's PraAiee of «
the Court'of King's Bench in Pcrfoual A6tions, 1 j
parts complete , Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise \
on Uses ; modern Reports, I* vols. London cdi- i
tion. " i
H. and P. Rice expedl t® receive by the Grft ar- 1
' rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of 1
, Durnford and Baft's Reports, 2d part of Gil- (
P 'bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications. 1
June 16.
The History of Pennsylvania,
, By ROBERT PROUD,
Ig now in the preft, and will be publiflied,
with all convenient expedition, by ZttHA
- RiiH Poulion, jun. No. 80, Chefiiut-ftreei,
Philadelphia, where fub&riptions will continue
to bt received, and at tfie Philadelphia Library,
I according to the printed proposals, until the
. work is ready for the fubferibers.
July 18. lawtf
Printed Calicoes.
f JOMNMItLER, Jun. & Co.
r No. % Ghi-Jhut-Streit,
1 Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS neatly aflorted, very low on'
. (hert credit.
March 6. §
, Richard and James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting Houfc to No.
4j, South Fifth-ftrc«t.
i, uguft %. • wSiffit j
LancaHer, Harrijburgh Carlijle,
e Shtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
0
_ ' j t HE public are requffted to fr.ke notice, that
L the partnerlhip which has f«r sometime sub
! fifted bctweo 1 Mathias Slough of Lancaftcr, and
William Geer, is now ditto Sited *. not as <M.
Slough insinuates to the public without just caufc ;
as will more fully appear by a Utter on the fub
je& from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 29th
- December last* a recital of which is not now deem
ed necefTary. Auy gentleman who wishes to be
j mere circumstantially infernicd of the merits of
r t this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
'he peruial «f M. Slough's letter, and then cat %
' at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is net perfectly juilifiable m attaching him
ie felf to any other pcrfon ii the profceution of the
nrg, or any other place.
n Now from the liheral and generous flip port the
public were pleafrd to confer on the firft effort in
*> this hufinefs, M iliiam Geer, in conjunction with
y• Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
!• toprofeeute and carry it on, with every care, at
tcution anddifpatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
to lie can poflibhy exert. .
The above company, who ari amply provided
1- with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the paCage fafe anvl commodious, inform
9 f thofu wno wiib to patronise and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their teats at
George Weed's, the sign of /the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, tlarrifburg,
_. Carliflc and Shippenfburg. The fare as lnthtrto
ellabliftied.
For the further accommodation of the public,
e a Stage will ilart every Wednesday fcom the hcufe
of Samuel F.lder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sud
bury in Northumberland county, every Thntfdayj' 1
13 and return from thence and arrive at
every Saturday, so tkat pafrciigers>"deltined for
Lancafteror Philadelphia, may proceed o* Mon
k WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaftcr, Jan. 27, i*97-
u B. Thi§ Line et Stages starts from ths
hau/e William Ferr*, in l.ancnftcr, on every
I'uefday Saturday morning at 6 pro-
c coding to t.he weft ward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel fei.Aer ijn Harrifburg every W§dnef
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfbv.! , and returns
d front thence <-n every Thursday : ]
lame routine daily as \ll sour from l hi)?del
phiai nnvf
City of VValhington.
SCKEME
Of the Lottery, No. H,
Far the Imtrivitoent of the federal City.
A 'n"ig:u&centdweHii3g"h-auitt ICjOG-odullars,
6 cilh .10,000, are j0.r.00
t dittu iSjUOO & cal* 35,000 40,00*
I ditto jj.opo & caih 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & calk 10, poo ao,ooo
1 ditto f,aoo & ' 5,000 10,000
1 fiitto t,i>oo « j ,000 io,poo
. I ejtft) prize'of Jo,o<;o '
1 do. 5,000 e"h,are • jcyioo
10 dQ. 1,000 - - 10,001;
jo do. coo - - jo.ooo '
. 1
. .00 no. ipo - :o,poo ,
i to do. j-j - - 10,000
400 do. IS - - ll>,0<?0
11000 lip. .J . . - 50.0c.,1 j
i.T,oo<> da. .ifi • .... . . - 150,000 .
"7- ' V
'<s> v? V'i*-- > - ti
Blanks. (
Jc,odo Tickets, at E:§bff Bollari, 400,000 i
N. B. Tofavour those vho may take 4 quan
tity of Tickets, .hi prize of 40,00 a dollars will be
the: la9t drawn the 30,000 the last
but one :
And as proved note s, fecuribg payment in either
money or prizes, in ten days 4ter drawing, will
be receixed sot any number not lei's than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an fpecimen ef ! 4
the private buildings to bfe erc&ei in the .City of
Washington-—Two. beautiful defies a*e alteady
icle&cd for the entire front; on tvo of the public
squares; from these drawing* it isjropofed toeredl
two centre and f our corner bwildlngi.as soon aspof
fible after this lottery is fold, and ta convey them,
when complete, to'the fortunate adventurers, ia '
defcribed in the fchemefor the Hotel
Lottery. A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will
be rfiudeto defray theneceflary ezpenfeaof print
ing, 3cc. and the surplus will bemade a part of
the fund intended for the National University, to
be eroded within the city of Wallington. ,
The real fecuritiehgiven for tlw payment of the i
Ptiaes, held by the Prefidenr and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount of the lottery.
S AMUEL BLODGJST.
# § # Tieketsmay be had at the Bank of Colam-
Li*; of jumes Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Feter
Oilman, Bcfton ; of Johi Hopkins, Richmond ;
and of Ricfcc.;J Welle, Cooper's Ferry.
mWf
From the Ot/ego Herald.
CAUTION.
W HER PAS a combination of med in this
county have undertaken to enrich th*n»-
ftlves,by faUricutiiig titles tofunc'r/ valuable traAs
of laud, the property of gentlemen living in New
Yoik, Philadelphia, London .ma Paris, for whioh
tra&» of lend large funis of money have betin paid I
tp those fraudulent,men, by innocent purchaser* •
It xs therefore just tnst public information fliould
be given, to the end, thai the injured may ferk re- ;
dref* while the racn have property, and are to be
found. Those who have bean discovered areTru
m n Harrifou, Joseph Witcomb, said now tore
fide in the county of Saratoga ; Thomas Kelly and |
several other! who go under fi&itious names. It is
supposed that the lands offered fcr sale On those fa
bricated titles, are at lcworth fifty thousand j
dollars. Such as we have a&ual knowledge of are [
as follows ; Lots No. II and 12, patent,
thoufanJ acre* each, the aClual property of William 1
Dellwyn, now of London ; lots No. 58 and 64,
fame patent, thnttfknd acres each, the property of !
Mr. Chaumcnt, now of Pari?, and lemeaAverill
and othew, of tint State. There is lome grounds
to suppose that the lands of Richard and
Charles Wharton, ps Philadelphia, are under their
management.—The Primers will do well to give ,
this a place-in tJicir papers, as w«U to caution the
public against purch»Rng thcue lands, as also tt> de
prive those men in future from imposing on indivi
du*f», whicn tneir education and address have en
abled.them to do heretofore. Witcomb has been |
a shopkeeper of some note in this couiKry.
The following affidavits will fct in a clear point
of view tha wickcdnefs ol thole men,which when
the public have perufid, will induce them to ea
cufe the intnference of Wm. COOPER.
Otfego, July aSth, 17*7.
I Thomas Kelly, of the County of hav
ing been led into an error, by John Witcomb and
Truman of the fame.County, to sign a
deed to them, for lot No. 58, Dlfcgo batont, v. hich
• was the property of Willi-.m f. Franklin now Mr.
Chamont's and orhers; and further tint said Joseph
and Truftian aid perluademe to do'this against my
inclination, which was made cu; on the icth duy |
of November, 1793, or set back two years so us
to bring it to that time ; and the namu of
Pardon S'-arks to that deed was a si Aitioua namt>,
1 there being no facto perlon there, 'to this I make
voluntary oath. THOMAS K.ISLLY.
19th JuFy, ! 797.
On the 79th July, 1797, came personally befoVp
me. 'flinmas Kelly, the fubfenber to she above as
*■ ftdavit, andmade solemn oath that it contains noth
ing but th«;truth.
>1 ELIHIX PHONEY, Jufticc of the Peace.
On the s-ame before me Jaeob
"> Kibby, a perlcn i>y me well ki.osfh ami worthy of
good credit, who on his solemn oath did fay, that
1 two f»f the psrtie* abovementioned did make ap
- plication to him th~s deponent, some time in the
wiflter of 1796 ,to r. ahe them a deed fcr twothou
f find acres of land in the
e mifed this-deponent a fharc ©i the profits on the
» sale of said lat!d«, £or h;s so doing ; andthtt they
madeapphcation several times for the fame purpo e,
- which (Vrvices this deponent as often refufed, de
e claringto tht?m that he had no right to lands, and
coulddo no such
thisdaponent's integrity he had related among his
e friends several to jaaking this atti
-1 davit. JACOB KI2JBEY.
!i Sworn before me,
J I*LIHU FHINNEY, Just ice of the Peace.
jli/g. lUV/4W.
Thirty Collars Reward.
d T?LOPED from tiic fcrviee of the i'ulfcriber,
0 X-j on the 19th inft.-.nr, a nfpro man by the
1 name of DICK, about twcnty-Cve years of age,
t and five feet nine or ten inches high; by trade
t a carpenter, .yid is a very liveiy brill; u-ork
'■ man.. His countenance is very ',-ood—■ When
7 spoken to, he tanneries -with ease and eonfi
>> dence, and is pretty fagaiious. I purchai'ed
0 tKc laid fellow of Mr. iiubtity Minor, in whole
name he has been advertised in the Richmond
newfpaper-. Duringhfi» runaway trip (lalV
" fumnier jhe was employed a couli-krable length
by fomsDumlrits, from
' which aircumftaticf, 1 <:onjei?lure, h e taken
'' another nothern route, I forewarn all pe»l\.us
from givmg him ertlploytnent, of any kind
whate. er, and maflersof vtfTcl.and ethers, fronj
carrying him out of this flats. The abcTn: re
ward will be !sveil if fit is taken within forty
rnik-s of thi» city ; and an additional l'uni, in
' proportion to the distance he may be broegbt,
. or th< trouble and e*{>Sce the apprehtnder may
r be at. in brinirlns him to (hisplacc.
AUG; DAVIS;
N. B. Ilia appitrclwas of 'ul'ual ntgro kind,
S bijthe had more cJoaths thania cuftomaiy for
■ them to poflcli.
AD. .
j RtfihtKmd, June iij i797>
Will be Landed,
From om board the Active, Cant.Bt.Aiß,front
H-amluugii,
20 baits white Uufl>a cfiran Hemp » !
1 calks Clover ieeiA
I'or by
Thomas Herman Leitfp.r,
North Fii'ik No. 34. t
Tune -
William Blackburn,
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE '
No. 64 lcuth.Second (rrrrt. ( 1
in tie Canal Lottery. 11, wl ?*. (
-.1 eommenceil drawing the 20th May, FQxC «
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor- «
tion \ns the drawing -idvanfces, particularly on ac- «
count of the live firfl drawn tickets prizes of <
four thousand dollars each, on the iaii day tof <
drawing. * •
Books kept for examination and regifler- <
ing, in tlie Canal, No. 2, City of V;'aldington, No. ,
2, and Paterfon Lotteries.
Also, tickets for sale in tiie 3cliuylkill bridge arsl <
Perk omen Bridge lotteries, whicli will begin i
drawing i» the course of the fumnier.
The bulinefs of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Lands, &c- &c-. with the i
utmoti attention. 1
J-une z tuSff *
Erflciae's View of the War. 1
JUST PUBLISHED, i
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
Nd 40 South Second street,
fPrice 31 Cents]
A View of the Cau/es and Confsquen
css of the present War zvith France.
By the Honorable Thomas Erskine.
May 15 - $ 1
STATE TRIALS.
Sold by W. Yoong, BooScfcllcr, No. j*, South Se
eo*d~llrecf,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and
al of Francis Hopkinfon, Judgs of the Cowrt of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollar^.
W. has sale, a general affortmeotof
Books. Also, Stationary, retell and by the pack
ege, well and etui vied to the drawback if
asserted. Jaly 7-—*
r HE SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
thp Ilp.vov fc.Ktraordiuiiy aad Mieifter Pleni
potentiary of ni» Britannic Majety, Genttsl sgont
lo* aflittmg Britilh creditors, aod loch particular a
gtntsas they may lpttially authorize, in prij/ecut.»g
i their claims before the for carrying in- |
to tfTeft the sixth artiale ot the Treaty of jfrnity. Coot- j
mine and X'jvigation fietwtSK hij ArttannK A 'ajtJty and
the United States of hereby noucc that
he has opened hisoffue at his houfc tke lomh eafl
corner of Chefnut and fifth fl>ects t Philadelphia,
where he is ready to receive al! claims or ioit; udiou«»
| for claims irh the voirehcts aud documents thereof,
i for the purpose of bringing forwlfd the faine agree
ably so tke rules and oiders wt!ck the boaid rn«y
, think proper to prescribe.
And at it wil| be tor the interest of all aoMCcrfied,
that the fevaral claims be so Hated, and support
ed, as to prevent the delay wbich wc'uUl from
the necellity of obtaining turther inioraiation, or ad
ditional materials,from periods rofiding at a di&ance,
the general thinks it his ducy to add, (for the
direction ehieily of those, w'no, not having employ
ed particular sgants, may le*ve the prolecuiion of
their clktins to i.u charge and that all
such claims ought i« paiticularto fct torrh—"
ift. 'i'hepioper defeription and Gtuaiion of the
eacdiior or olaiiuant, eud Original debtor, rcfpe&-
I ively.
i d. The date andaature of the original contract o*
! debt.
3d. Wltm, in whfit manaer, and to what extent,
the creditor or claimant w»» prevented or impeded.-
by the provision, operation or Ueleit of law, the
dccifiopsand oratiice of or icdraiAt of exe
cution, from recovering payment of the debt iu
que 11 ion.
Ath Tbelofaand damage ineurrcd or sustained,
in confeCjuence of foch whether the
! lame may have arisen from the infolvcney, change ot
situation, or death of thcdebtoi, the lof* of
remedy from lapie of time, or <uhpereaur«aimoaii lug
the value and security of the d4at # which would not
have so operated if such impediment* had DOtexifleti.
And sth The particular grounds atfd rcafoni oa
whieji the claimant maintains, in the terms »f the «
treaty, that 41 by the ordinary cooefe of judicial pro
ings, the cieditor cinnot nov; obtain and a&uaiiy
have and receive full ai»d adequate compeafatioc" lor
the losses and damages so fuiiaiued*.
The general agt m thinks it his duty further to fug
g«ft that the ftveral claims ought to be accompanied
and lupported by the affidavits of the claimants duly
sworn and rejjuliriy at»tiled, both as to the axiU«ii«e
of i\" debts Claimed, fuch other eireumftftnecs j
as may be vv.ith'.n tneir own knowledge refpeAiveiy.
And wherever the claimants in nature t»i
their evidence (which mult :n every instance be the
ball of which the cafe is capable) have occasion to
refer te the tcUimony of wituelfsi, it will bt prdptr
to apprifathc general agent of the names ar.d place*
of residence of such wituaffctand the fa&*U> be elta
biifhed by tncii teil.mi.ny.
Wm. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia. Tune B.h. 170?. d
For Sale,
That well known place, tailed Fjudzoßilt's
fFRIV,
ON Kclbamifiy crctk, 18 miles from Pnila
ladelpbia, on tbe New York poit ro>tl,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon ftie
premitet are a large two i.ury iiene hou'e oitn
pied asatvern, and a good one (tory itoiufkit
clien, a large frame ftsbje with a good tbreflrirg
' Haor, and foine out buildings—also 3 wt:l of
pood water, and an excellent ice House. -On
1 this place is a molt elegant fituat'en for a perltle
i man's fer-t, commanding a view of the Ntftam
. iny to its jundlion >viib the Delaware, and thence
acn fs.to the Jersey (hore. It has the privilege
ot one nail ihe toll received froni the bridge.
For terms apply to the Strbfcriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS;
14. ,?r.iwtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
: Boarding School for young Ladies.
' 1\ /T RS - GKOjpMISHJDG£ with much pleas
! IVI ureand rcfpe.'t, retnrns'her .fincer'e ac
' Unowledgem«nt for the liberal eicourageraeat
1 f'le has received during four years refidensc is
' Philadelphia ; and ai'.bVes her friends and the
' public, fo.far-from intiwKling to decline her
: ilhool, flie has mifje^l•Superior<irrange««vr.t for
' Hte-mpre convejiier.t accommodatinr. of her
' scholars. —Evpry branch of utW'sl and polite'
1 education is parrica'arlv JTtendeil'i:> by JMre.®
' Grootnbridge and inafi&rg excelling in their
1 rcfofclive pr'ffffions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets,"
' June .sth, 1 797- , 9 nn.'tf
' The fituatie'n is healtly ; ai.jd made
CIOIC agreeabkf bv an' extenfivs garden and lot
ofgri und tdjeining th» iioufp.
Jzijl Publifhcil,
' And to he had of "m* ffrs. Dofcfon, Campbell.Rice,
Gary, and the ether ; ricipal Bcokleliei. in t'le.
city,price one ddilar, ewinty-Sve cents,in bc.lrcis,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By IitNTAMI.N SMlrti BAE.TQN, a. d.
Jfufls sc.' • '6t
■3 .
No. iSj.' .
DjJlriS of nqit :
l. 5. 1"S" ® ttiat on (he
bte-et.th dsy of Jur.e.'ift-the tjventy
fl: fl year of tlie Independence of the United
Srstts of America, Jamis Wo6dhous;-, of
the h'.id diilrict, haih deposited in thL offiCe-the
title of a boc.'c, the right whereof he claims ii
author, in the words tolloving, to wit :
" The Voting Chemifl's Pocket Co'nip3r.idn,
" be-iii; a Dc&ripi'xili of a Portable LabjrjtiJry,
'• containing a Philofe.pfcieal apparatus, and a •
" jrest number of Chernical A'peots, by.wUich
" any peri'on may perform an. ep.dlels variety of
" amuliiig and ii.ilnitTting Exceriinent,s, defigt:-
" til lor the use of ladies and gentlemen, and
" wtenried to promote the cultivation of the
" tfcjeiic;.' of Cht'miftry in the United States of
" Jrr.uica. By James V/ocdhoijse, M. Jj.
" Proleffibr of Cf.etriftry, in. the Uuiverfity of
" Peonfylvania, Prcfulcut of the Chemical So-'
* cicty or-Philadelphia, ice. .
" At prcfent everything that is rot diDomi
" nated Chemifiiy, is final! part of a lyf
" tem -of natural knowledge. i
PiU'filyan Air."
In conformity to the a<s! of the Copgrefsof the
Untied States, intituled, " An a£t for the encour
agement of Learning, by fecuving the copies of
map*, charts, and books to the authors'and pro
prietors ol such copies, during the times there
in mentioned." '
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of the '
Diftri.il of Pennsylvania.
Jvly 18. d.'t— wstf
No. 188. V, V
DiflriS of Pc'nnfyfaania, to
, L . s xW ir Ki.MEMRfj 1, tb«.on. Ac
XJ Wtnty (isth day of July, in the'twen
ty fccond year of the independer.re of th : United
Slates of Si uierica, John Fen wo, of the said dif
triia,hith denofitedin thikoflice thetiile of a book,
the right wh- recf he claims as proprietor, ia the
words following, te wit : * 4
■*. Oefervations on certain documents contained
" in No. V.and Vl.of "Th.-History of theUni:-
." ed States for the year 1796," in which the charge
" oi fpcculition, agiirid Alexander Kireiltoh, late
'' Secretary of the Trettf«ry, is fully refuted—
'• 'Written bv hiiAfelf."
In conformity to rhc »A of the Coi;£refs„6f the
llcited Stare«, entituled, "A» a 1" for the encour
agement of learning, by securing the copies'of
majH, charts and books to the authors anc* propri
etors of fvth copies, during th« t.rut; therein rnea
tiooad."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
CUtli gf the DiJirM of J*vwfylvanla.
July 17. ■ , , ' > " -W4W
Public Notice it hereby given,
T""HAT it Junfeterro, 1797, a petition was
prefeated to the Court of Comtndn Pleis,
held at Yerk Town, ih the St»te of Per.lifylva
nia, at the tnlUnce «f James Short, prayiag
, the Court to supply a loft deed made by a cer
tain Andrsw Hickenlnber, to Hugh Mbrrjfon,'
James Morrifon, and John Sample, txecutors
to Hans Morrifon, decealed, for fix hundred
awes of Lind, ituate in Meiufleu
townfeip, in thfc county of York :t— All per.
foils wbo biveeny obje&iont to make to the ©b
jeft of the ftid petitio* are de£rrd to attend at
the Court Heufe, in the town of York, on tbg
i, th day of September nixt, orfltarwife the loft
deed \HII be fupplitd.-
JOHN EDII, Clerk.
Jul} IS. e«iSs
30 Dolkfis Regard.
RAN away on Saturday lift, few® indented &er
vaati,Cifford Daily, a niulatf® boy.tbout 17
yiirt of a fl/m' light built «Aivc Fil-aW, can
read and wrkc,{lve feet {it Ten or eight inches high,
hu* a heavy touutcimnw ; liftd 011 a tuituft c.c?tcc
and trovvf'-r*, a crowned hat, thic lliodsdkc.
Allan Heilons, a blacfc maa, years of
age, five feet fever, or eight iaciics u,a iMck set
c3u«rf|' bui!? ftllow, particuUrly.abcut tlu v
h;:d on a i'aiior's blue jacket lined v, ith fwanfltin,
dark striped vest, fuftiau tfow/ein, high crowned
hut, ccarfc iuoeti, &c..; each of the:n hid feventi
ftjirtsand fevera! ether cWathes with th?in. Thi.r
ry Dcf.ars will be paid for the runav/ays, or r,% dol
♦ Ufi» For cr.ch, and chir'f c-j, oa delivering
i them at No. 54, North YhifJ-itrett.
| i'he black fellow is about a year from Lewis
\ Tdwn, ia th?s County qf Suffcx, ltate of*Dela
( ware, and has ukeatiw«boy wiihaiin.-
I Jaiy %i. , mr.nsff3^*
s To be SOLD or RENTED,
1 A 1.fiß0." 3 Story Brick House, on the
! xa. Som'ii Rile of Frlbcrt, ftrcef, % between
Eighth and Ninth,, lately occupied as the .Sur
veyor General's OiSct.
the Building :s feet f, ont and -Jj.-fcet deep,'
the lot no feet deep, with the privilege of i nir.e
fee: wide Alley extending the vrlmie lonjjth of
the lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carriages
to turn in. The Ilobie is not j-hiitered, and
may be turt(|d eiiher into <?ne, or'.wo (i»vellit>g
Houses. fnsfuitab'e'J'or a large ManufatSory,
or would raalte a good Tavtra. Wi>ie&«t«
pcffeSion wiii iie given.
Apply to No. in, Cht'fiiin-Street..-
. 'Aug. 21. ,
■ Muftcal lnjh uinent Mantija&ixy,
■ -Ac. 167, Arth-Street. , .
HARPER, harpfichoVd pcrtihle er'\*i!,
fici>fcoard, pitr tr.Me atid fquwe yraxoioi-'e
aiaii x Iron.- Lcndcn, returns ti.anl.s to his itier.ds
:h: juljMs, for their libeial cj.couraftmcnt,
and He pes that by.hu affii'uity and a'Ki'.iii n to ev
eiy hraiich of his bunnefs, toaerit a id ti
'c£ their favors. Piano ftfti »iade on th» ceweit
iuoft -appro-red plans, with Jrdali, p*atrtit,
fsve'l, atitl Fieuch Irikvp stop-, width
iiiciteif will ue fonnd 'n uit4>/ttup*rjucfitihi'
judo's, to if nbt furrier to aryinvpor(»
ed, and tv,'i;nty .per cent clearer. Any isfltu
mmt ptircAaied' <-t I mi, if not 1 in
twelve moitths, he V.'ill e*ehjn'»e. 1 * •
N. B. it ki.v' i cr AliiCc d m[{nsni«;tß rnitjft,
uned, and Tepairea-'.vjth the" Kfea'^ll'tiec«ii<iy,
d:fpatJt, and on the Vvjott reaibnabie tirri>«, lor
ready i;.oney oniy. if
Second h,-.nd Piano l ? orle» tdV;n in excfiafcge*...
• May j<. ' '
Forty Dollars Re'wrir'd. -
VJ AN-awsy fr.;sn-the lVhfcriber on tl>e : fte
i*- onddayof thi'sinjf.fjtifyv a
,1. ujrred VVi'l iiawze.; - , .ifbout forty of
five feet- fetrta or etjjlit inciu'« high, ratter
Chunky mide ; had 0:1 when he wejt 3«av, a
draln-nio'.ed ciotii coat,-ft:'iped puttie trowffrts
a** jacket, jt is pi i bihle ha \vifl chii»2< f
cbather, as lie took a'uumbeir w.iih .hiii)., ;TKfe
lai.l tePow forraftly beicnged to Mi'.-Xiharlcs
illakt of this place; and i; is txmcflsfl'Kijfc:*
toade towards Jone.i'i J.'ec!:, in the D(;,'viSfer;
State. —Any perl', a apprrh«!iiit>g the *Jcl r
low, aad feei:riitg hiiu lo that i iiim a
-1 yr.it;, thail receive the abovfr reward - if-tafesi
Oct of'the county, and Twenty Dollars i£,»j
' the county, and all-rsafoiubit charges if bro't
bo'Kiu.
JEES'E. REEBf, '■*
Q'ees Asa's Cuw.tj,
J** ! y..v ' - v V3't .