& Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1397.]
For Savannah,
THE SHIP
SWIFT PACKET,
I ■ Glenn, Majler,
g TXtended as a constant trader, and will
*sst, X fail with all convenient speed—is
handsomely accommodated for paiTengers and fails well,
fc. For Freight or Passage apply to N. &J. FRAZIER,
N©. 25 south Front-street.
Whe have forfale, received by the laid {hip, 140 whole
and 60 half-tierees Georgia RICE, new and of prime qua
foy» i February a 8 §zw
For Amsterdam,
The faft-failing cedar and live oak
ship Amiable,
- - " D. C. Tilling})aft, Master y
J JST grayed and in compleat order* and is now ta
king in, and intended to fail in all this month, a great
part of her cargo being ready to go on board, has good
accommodations for pajflengers For freight or passage
apply to the master, on board, at Bright's wharf,
or tOj
JEREMIAH WARDER,
No. 12 South Third street.
February 15 mw^fiw
For Rotterdam,
Edward Janes, Majler,
HAVING the greatest part of her cargo engaged, will!
fail with all convenient speed. For freight or Passage, ap
ply to the captain on board, or to
JOSEPH SIMS-
February £2 mw&ftf
For Charleston and Savannah,
the schooner
L Y D I A,
Oliver Jenkins, Majler>
WILL take freight on moderate terms, and be ready to
ake in in a few days. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co.
, February 23 L>t
For CHARTER,
the Danish brig
Friendship,
JfeS&dSfcr*. Lorenlz Malaen, Mafirr,
A strong, new velTel, with a Mediterranean Pass, bur
then abeut J4O tons. For terms apply to
February 19—§ PHILIPS, CRAMOND & Co.
For Hamburgh,
: JohnThompfon, ttaJUr,
JUSI ciippeied"artd in complete order, and is now loading.
A cnnfiJerable parrot her cargo is engaged, has goo i accom
modations for paflVngers, and intended to (ail in the courje
6) this month.—Foi freight or passage, apply to tile Mailer
on boai*", al BngUl's wkait, or to
JEREMIAH WARDER,
No. ij north Third ftrett.
February I 5 mw&faw
James Brown,
Jt No. I 19 South Second jlrect,
HAS just: received per the brig Peggv, capt. Hardy,
from Amsterdam, a small invoice of. DUTCH"
GOODS, confiftiag of \ * , >
Ticklenburgs
' Flaxm linen Oznaburgs
Coffee-Mills, No. Id to 4
Straw knives
Scythes 10 hands long—and
Glass tumblers afiorted
Which he will f«li on good terms by the package.
\lfo on hand,
A few Quarter-calks Malaga V/INE, and
500 Gallons Spirits Turpentine.
Febiuary 23 S
For Sale,
A Quantity of Excellent
Turks-Island Salt,.
Aud a few hoglhnds
3d and 4th proof Rum.
Enquire of
Jehu Hollingsworth & Co.
February 17
A Quantity of Brandy,
FIRS f & 2d proof,
Gin, of 4th proof, in pipes
Jamaica Spirits-, 4th proof, in Hhds
Old Hork. in cases of 40 dozen each
G'afs Tumblefs, in pints and half-pints
Window Glass, in boxes, of different sizes
Hazlenuts, in sacks
Whiting
, > in !>hd,
White Lead (
Si SpaniHi Brown J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 $
Mr. Pickering's Letter.
This Day Published,
AND FOR SALE BT THE EDITOR,
Price three rights of a Dollar.
THE Letter of the Secretary of State, to Mr. Pinclc
ney, Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States, to
the French Republic. February 9.
~ IV A. NTS A PLACE. ~ 7_
A Woman who can be well recommeeded for hoaefty, so
briety, snd godd temper. She wilhes to engage as cham
bermaid, or sempstress for low wages on condition Ihe may
retain 2 young child with her. Enquire at No. 58 South
Jront ftrert. February 16 d
J'-tji Publijhed,
AND TO BE SOLD BY THE BOOKSELLERS,
THE SPEECH
Of Joseph H. Fleming, of Philadelphia,
In the LYCEUM, or society for free debate,'at Mr.
Poor's school-house, on Wednesday evening, February 8,
on the Question " Whether a Representative in a free gov
ernment, isbound to a A by the will of his constituents, le
gaily had, or by his ran judgment Feb. 17 mwfjt
A genteel new -j-ftorv BRICK HOUSE,
FOR SALE,
Situate in sth, above Spruce-llreet—Poffeflion may be
kad the beginning of April next.
Apply at No. 109, Spruce street.
Feb. »8. , daw.
WEDNESDAT EVENING, MARCH i, 1797.
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seedr,
Roots, &c. &c.
This day landing from the ship Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from London,
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
/ Corner of Walnut and Sccond-ftreetf,
A most capital and txtenfive Assortment of
GARDEN, Qft ASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c. &c.
Among which are, v
Five kinds AfparagusjlThrer kinds Cresses
Four Uerecolej Twelve Onion
Twenty-five Beans ! Thirteen Radish
Six ' Beets Fifteen Turnip
Eleven Brocolij Fifteea Peas
Twenty-fix Cabbage Six Savoy
Six Carrot Fottr Parsnip
Threj Cauliflower Twenty-three Melon
Five Celery! Twenty-one Lettuce
Ten Cucumber
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled kaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Mary gold Pot Marjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Fein Lucern«
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. &c.
With a curious collection of the most esteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOFS,
Being the most extensive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Seedsman in London, and
are warranted frefli and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17 §
Bourdeaux Brandy, in Pipes,
OLD Claret, in cartas
Ditto in cases, or an excellent quality
Lisbon Wine in pipes
Fodrtb l proof Holland Gin
New-England Rum in hoglheadsand tierces
Raisins in kegs
Reft Boston Beef and Poffk
Halifax Salmon in barrels
Ruflia Sail Duck
Ravens Duck
A few Feather Beds
One 11 1-2 inch Cable ) , , , .
One 9 do. do. J 1 fathoms long each
spermaceti Candles
Mould and dipt Tallow dittd
A few barr els Tanners Oil, and
A small invoice of India Goods,
For Sale by
JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co
ALSO,
Just received from Marfcillei, a fro all invoice of Silks, Silk
Stockings, an alTortment of Perfumery, and a few cases of
the best Olive Oil.
February 15 §,ot
For Sale,
A T R AC 7 OF LAND,
CONcaifiing 320 acres, in Harford county, 5 miles dis
tant from Be lie-Air, 27 from Baltimore: the im
provements ire, a twe-ltoi y brick dwelling-houle ; finifh
ed in a gentet-1 manner, with stone kitchen and cellar ;
a barn, and other convenient put buildings; a (GRIST
MILL, lately built, in a good ft and fer country or mer
chant work ; apple-ttrchard and other fruit-trees ; 30 a
cres ot prime timothy meadow ; and nearly as more
may be made from the conveniency of watering; 80 acres
of woodland, welltimuered. The fields are well laid off,
and under good tence : the situation is very pleainnt and'
heahhy. The whole of this property may be had for
25001. Two thirds in hand, and the remainder in only
payments, 22501. would be all cash- Pofifeflion
might in 60 days after contraii, and"an indisputa
ble title given by ' ROBERT BRYARLY.
February 2o
Mahogany and Logwood.
A Cargo for Sale on board of the Ihip Sally, captain
Gelft-on, just arrived from Honduras.
Apply to
PHILIPS, CRAMOND fc? Co.
February 9 £
(O- NOTICE.
THE Sales of LANDS of the United States, in the
North-Western Territory, heretofore advertised
in the several public pipers, will commence this even
ing, at the City Tavern to be continued troFTi day
to day, 'till the tenth of MARCH next, if not sooner
fold.
January 4 $
JUST ARRIVED,
By the Danish ship Friendlhip, captain Matzsp, from
Oporto,
Red Port Wine,
In Pipes, Hog(heads,an»i Quarter-Calks,
150 Boxes of Lemons,
(For Sale by
Philip J, Cramond & Co.
February 9 §
Notice.
THE ELEPHANT will leave town positively ear
ly in March.
Admittance—one quarter of a dollar.
Children—half price.
N. B. An ELEPHANT TOOTH weighing 54
pounds to be fold. Enquire at the place where the Ele
phant is kept,
Feb. 30. d
Wanted,
A NURSE, t® attend a iick Lady, a few miles from
this city :—a person well recommended, will be im
mediately employed,- and liberally rewarded. For infor
mation enquire of the Editor of this Paper.
February 24. Igt
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third street, opposite the national new Bank"
SAMUEL M FRAUNCBS and JOHN VAN REED*
have entered into co-partnerlhip, under the firm of
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants* They buy and
fell on commiflion every species of llock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Money procured on, deposits, &c. &c. all kinds c'
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in th*
most correal manner. CeSllant attendance will be given.
They solicit a ihare of the public favor; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmoii fefrccy cbferved.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN RE£D.
PHilad.
A House and Lot.
FOR SALE, x
A HOUSE and Lot, in a good neighbourhood, and 1
vdeafant situation ; it is the second House east of sth
street, of that handsome row of new buildings, pow near
finilhpg, situate on Arch, between Fourth and Fifth
streets ; and is about twenty feet front and forty-two feet
deep : the Lqt is absut eighty feet deep, more or less : ;
and above the height of the firft ftoryhasa pleasant open
ing to the South., of perhaps three hundred feet wiore.
Poffeflion may be had about the ift of \pril or May nexf.
1 erms are, three thoufaud dolfars to be paid on receiv
ing the title, and the residue if defircd may remain, for
seven years onfecurity arid interest—or VACANT LOTS •
situate on Arch street, any where between Front and
i welfth streets, will be taken in payment, either in part
or for the whole amount of the purchaie ; according to
their value at liberal rates.
For furcher particulars, please to apply at the Counting
House of the Su'»fcriber, Arch-street, No. 146, any
aioraing, from 7 to 8 o'clock.
LI AM SANSOM.
February 21
Pennsylvania Population Company.
NOTICE is hereby given, to such Share-holders as
as have not paid their affeffinents on theirfhares—to
pay the fame immediately to the vSccretary of the Compa
ny, at tbe Company's Office, No. 53 north Fouith*ftreet,
Philadelphia. They are further informed, that in default
of paying the fame within thirty days from the 4th of Fe
bruary, inftaat, the several forfeitures will be ftri&ly ex
acted, in conformity to the aift article of afTociation.
By order ®f the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, Secretary
Feb-2. 4
Important Public Document.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale
At the Office of the Editor of the Gazette of the
United S>ates,
No 119 Cliefnut-Srreet,
[price one dollar and fifty cents]
A FEW COMES OF THE
Receipts and Expenditures
OF THE UNITED STATES,
For the Year 1795, —
Bei»g the Latest Period to which an account can be
be made up. February %% §
This day is pubiijhed.
By Wiliam Cobbet, ia three large o<Sfcavo volumes,
A Defence of the Confiitutions of Govern
ment of the United States of America,
Againfl the attack of M. Turgot, in his letter to Dr.
Price, dated the twenty second day of March, 177 X,
By JOHN ADAMS, LL. D.
Prrfdent of the United Stales.
Embelliftied with a striking l.ikcntfs of the author,
cleg ntly engraved by Smither—from *ll original portrait
by Ctfl-y. February 23 —§3w
Red Clover Seed.
Fresh red Clover Seed of the best quality, in bags of
5 buihels each
Madeii a wine ffl pipes, fit for immeiliale use
Tcnerile wine in pipes, hogsheads and quarter calks
Ditto do. of firlt quality, for the use of private
families
Coffee iu u.)g(head«
Jamaica lpirits
Connecticut soap in small boxes
\\ indow glass aud Spanilh fegars, and
Two t.uiiks of be# patent, piaiu aurd ribbed Glk and
cotton hosiery, for sale by
JOHN CRAIG.
February 1, wffttmtf
fOR SALE, BT
Philip Nicklin & Co.
r;":;" ni } t .
17 Tubs Quicksilver •
a Chests Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chests Mancheller Goods, well assorted in Cor
duroys, Thicksets, 'Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &c.
3 Truuks black Sewing Silk
180 Crates Queen * Waie, well afloat 0 d
10 Tons Sheet Lead
Nails aflorted flat and lharp points
I>ondonPartiular") Madeira wine in pipes and* hogs-
India Market J heaijs
40 Pipes and 10 HogflieadsTeneriffe Winjf
10 choice Port Wine
7 Tierces Snake-Root
%6 Calks yellow Paint
9 Boxes and 12 Bundles writing SUt&s
I Box Ink Stands and Note Presses
14 Bales Sail Canvass aflorted, No. Ito 8
February 11. mw&ftf
MRS. G R A T T A N, *
RefpeAfutly informs her friends, and the public in
general,' th.at on Tuesday the 10th day of January,
she proposes opening, at No. 39, North Sixth
ftreet,
A Linen and Muslin Warehouse.
Book Muslins, frona 6/3 to 12/11 per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to 9/8 per yard
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to lofio per yard
Fine Coffaes
Tambour'd Book Muslins, from 13/9 to ai/per yard
India Muslin, from 11/3 to 15/ per yard
Sheeting Muslin
Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, from, 4/3 to 6/ per hdkf.
Book muslin Handkerchiefs ftom $/$ 50 iq£6 per hdkf.
Muslin color'd and border'd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchiefs
Tambour'd Cravats from to 11/11
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/3 to 16/3 per yard
Table Cloths
Huckabuck Towelling
Women's Cotton Hose, from 6ft to 13/" per pair
Dimity from sfio to 6ft 1
Men's Silk Hose
Tambour'd muslin Handkerchiefs from ij/ii to ltfi
Irilh linens for Gentleiren's Shirts, from to 9/7
And a variety of other articles.
N..8. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, &c. &c.
Houfhold Linen, '&jc. &c.
A plain lhirt, made and mark'd, 3 1-2 dollars,
A full rusHed ditto, 4 dollars.
A plain fliirt, made and mark'd, 5 dollars.
A full rulHed ditto 6 dollars.
A plain fliirt, made and marked, 5 i-a dollars.
A full rulfled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'd, 6 dollars.
A full'rufHed ditto 71-2.
A pkiin fliirt, made and mark'd, 6 i-a dollajr?,
A very fjne ruffled ditto 8 dollars.
Linen included.
Wafhmgton Canal Lottery,
NO. J.
"W HKREAS t^'c ® tate of Maryland has authorised
v ' V the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
twoiiundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpoie of ciiWiiig
a Canal through th City of WaTiington, frp»Vth Po;
tomacto theEaHern Branch Harbour.
The following is--he SCllfiMH of No. I.
Viz -i Print'of 10,000 dsliars, ao.ooQ
t ditto 10,006 10,000
7 lad drawn >
Tickets,each f 5.9W 35 ; cco
6 ditto 1,000 6,c00
10 ditto 400 4,000
»o ditto 100 -- »,000
J5 d'fto jo 1.7J0
ST so ditto ii 69,008
To he raised for the Canal, 16.150
5850 Priass, 175,000
J1650 Blanks, not two to a prise.
I7JOO Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
I he Cemmiilioners have ta'tcn the Securities re*
quired by the aforeiaid aft for tie punctual payment of
the prizes.
The. drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as Coon as tH? Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prize* as are not demanded in fix months after tht
drawing is-finilhed, (hall be confider:d as relinquiflred for
the benefit »t the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG, °
DANIEL CARKOLL, c/D,
LEWIS .DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
W*. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,'
JAMES BARRY.
City of WaftuDgioti, Feb. il. 5
Robert Smith & Co.
No. 58 South Front Jircet,
HAVE FOII SALE,
A Quantity of Long Nankeeni,
ALSO,
An aflortment of India Goods,
AMONG WiJiCki A££,
Bandanot
Pullicates
Black and colored Pcrfiant
Gurrahs
punjams
JJaftaes,
Coflaes t
Humhums, &c. together with
A general aflortment of EuropeanGoodj
Suitable for the ensuing J'eafon.
February 20 mw&f 3 w
A Black Boy.
TO BE SOLD, theti:.ie of a smart, active Blsclt Bey,
who has about listen] years to serve. Enquire at No,
I 111 Chejnut street. February 13 §
FOR SALE, "
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marflj
and Beech Crocks, Milflin county, Pennsylvania, ii*
four feparatc Patent!, For terms of fate apply tp
W;n. Blackburn,
No. 64, Smith Srcond-itrset'
January 16. mwftf
_ CAMILLA, T
Or A Picture of Youth.
By the authoress of Evelina and Cecilia, to be com.
prised in five volumes, at half a dollar e*ch, payable
on delivery—Printed at New-York, by Mr. John
Bull.
CONDITIONS.
T. Handsome, neat type, pcrfedllj new, 16 em»
ployed. _
11. A volume, stitched in blue paper, is intended
to be published every 1 weeks, till the five are com
pleted ; the firft and second are come to hand, an;l the
third is hourly expelled. Subscriptions are received,
and Books may be had of J. ORMROD, No. 41,
Chefnut-ftreet-
Mr«. D'Arblay (late Miss Barney) the celebrate 4
authoress of this inimitable work, needs no eulogy
to add t'> the laurels (he has already acquirer' in the
literary world. The strength of imagination and ele
gance of style, displayed in Evelina and Cecilia, witi
I'ufficiently recommend to every reader of taste and
judgment, the perusal of Camilla.
It may not be improper to add, that the Queen of
England, after having perused this interesting publi
cation, presented Mrs. D'Arblay with a thousand
pounds flerling, as a testimony of her approbation of
the worfc.
January 15 mwf
~' LANDING, T
AT Walnut-street wharf, from on board the ship Peg
gy, captain Elliott, from Bourdeaux,
VIN DE GRAVE, or White Claret, in Hhds and Or,
Calks
RED CLARET, in Hhds
Ditto in cases of 14 and 30 bottles each
Green and Souchong TEAS, in quarter chests
For sale by
Rundle £9* Leech,
Nn,9
Februapy 6 mwftf
public Notice is hereby given,
THAT I have applied to the Judges of the Supreme
Court of this State, to supply the defecft in my title
to a loi:of ground situate on the Weft fide of Fourth-ltj eet,
containing in breadth io feet and in length 56 feet, bound,
ed northward and westward by ground ef the fubferiber
fouthward by ground of Edward Shippen, and eastward
by Fourth-street; occasioned by the loft of a deed from
Timothy Harrington, John Lewis and James Walton, V>y
their attorney Robert Mollyncux. All perlbns concerned
are required to appear before the Juftiees of the faidCourt
at the City Hall in the city of Phiadelphia, 011 the third
Monday in March next, to make their answer' to the bill
of the fubferiber, filed in the office of Edward Burd,
prothonotary of said court. William Shippen, ju n .
February 14
A Young Gentleman,
WHO can come well recommended by a refpeflable
merchant of this city, would be willing to engage eitlu-r
as a CLERK. in an accompting-houfe, public office, of
whoUfaleftore. A line addreHed to A. B. and left witi.
the Printer of this Paj:r, will be duly attended to.
Febtuary 23
[Volume XI.IVASHI:VCTON LOTTERY, No. II
List of Prizes an» Blanks.
66th Day's Drawing, February it.
* No. Dots. No. Dols. No. Dols No. 'Dols.
231 io 14494 16146 39637
1141 S9S ' 288 996
496 10 619 , 9XO 40037
849 15095 47001 la in -
119 5 131 on *J4
366 _ 186 145 10 336 10
914 * 3*5 10 191. 3 g 9 10
3047 10 410 28161 416
353 418 19541 10 49* 10
713 10 710 10 30055 io 577
4685 10 849 173 41183
5001 16850 IQ 563 19 1 10,
056 17109 963 469
761 401 31096 43°54
6817 954 8 33 232
7100 1818) 31414 10 439
141 *54 33059 731
8391 515 149 44027 10
718 803 116 161 10
9476 xo 19160 448 10 J,2
10261 180 596 6i>. 10
163 478 706 987 xo
897 10741 ,848 45101
11976 803 10 34000 10 994
11665 11144 35141 10 461U7
910 601 406 475
13105 10 n 634 538 10 614 10
197 10 11145 19 670 663 •
301 14a 10 886 10 973 io
461 23113 36074 47154
705 10 399 5° 3®7 48076
774 55-1 457 *3
839 10 !4t06 10 611 379 -
86j 106 657
908 10 15017 37156 .897
. 141x0 480 179 10 911 JO
i*s 798 9°9
475 9 20 39198
67th Day's Drawing, February 10.
No. Dols. fto. Dols. No Dels. JS T o. Dols.
96 11409 11899 34934
176 10 615 llioo 10 35008
"90 759 *39 i 69 10
(67 10 11503 10 673 964
3(369 990 23159 36138 10
311 13887 440 10 x 7*4
37x0 14131 xo 15154 7?3
7XB 10 15014., f 874 38059 !•
4030 951 ' 17019 39339
531 10 17144 10 185 680 xo
644 110 io *47 853
5166 10 846 547 10 40168 10
673 25 18061 18751 9*3 *0
679 28a 19089 10 941
995 10 400 10 955 10 41828
6111 10 739 v 987 415 75 »5
844 951 3C469 435*'/ 10
743S 10 19155 6 53 10 44138
8397 10 718 753 45*05 to.
716 10429 3*7*2 770
9601 21165 ,791 976
605 !• 461 10 31530 10 46811 .
749 544 10 569 9°9 10
789 587. 10 34543 10 47077
10446 7J4 sjj6 48693
0- The Stockholders
OF the Pennsylvania Population Company are requeu
ed to meet at the Company's Office, No. ?3 north
Fourth street, on Saturday, the 4th©f March next, at 12
o'clock, for the pu»pofc of taking into consideration th«
proceedings of the company and of making further affeiT
ments on the (hares, agreeably to the 20th article of the
Constitution. By order of the Board,
SOL. MARACHE, See.
Feb. 27 M 4
New Theatre.
On WEDhESDAt EVENING, March ijl,
"Will be presented, an Historical Play, (performed but
once) written by Shakelpeare, called
THE FIRST PART OF
Henry IV.
Or, the humours of Sir John Falftaff.
King Henry, Mr. L'Eftrange
Prinee of Wales, Moreton
P.John of L'aiicafter, Matter Warrell
Worcester, Mr. Fox
Northumberland, Darley
Hotspur, Cooper
Douglas, Darley, jun.
Sir Richard Vernon, Worrell, jua.
Weftmoreland, Warrell
Sir Walter Blunt, Prigmore
Sir J«hn Falltaff, . Warren
Poins, Harweod
Peto, Mitchell
Bardolph, Morgan
Francis, - B'liffett
{Messrs. Francis and
Morris
-Lady Percy, Mrs. M«*ris
Hostess Quickly, Mr 3. L'Eftrange
To which will be added,
(For the last time this Season—and with the original
Overture and French Music, composed by Monfr. Rochk
fort, never performed in America)
A Grand, Serious, PANTOMIME BALLET, called
The Death of Capt. Cook ;
£As performed in Covent-Garden Theatre, London, under
the dirt&ion of Mr. Byrnk, upwards of Five Hund
red Nichts, with universal applause.]
With New Scenery, Machinery, Drejfes and Deco
rations.
Describing an Exaft Representation of the Manners and Cuf
ftoms of the Natives of Owhyhee, in the Pacific Ocean. *
| MeiFrs. Byrne
J Francis
j Warren
ThcPrincipal Characters Darley
| Moreton
♦ I Fox
(_ Warrell
» «nd Mrs,Byrne. »
Indians,—Messrs. J.Dariey, J. Warrell, Mitchell, Sig. Doc
tor, Macdonald, Morgan, M. St. Marr, M. Laveney, &c.
Indian Women, —Mrs. Harvey, Mrs. MetcStler, Mrs. Dofl:-
or, Miss Melbourne, Mils L'Eftrange, Miss Bates, Miss
Oldfield, Miss Anderfon, M'lleSophie, &c.
With DANCES, PROCESSIONS, &c.
The Scenery designed and executed by Mr. Mi lsourni.
On Friday, The Grecian Daughter, with a Farct,
{never performed) called THE ENCHANTED FLUTE.
Box, One Dollar twenly-five cents. pit Eigh.hs
of a Dollar, and Gallery, half a dollar.
VI VAT RES PUB I. ICA !
Just Arrived,
In Brig Nancy, Kobert Tate, Mailer,.
A Cargo of SUGAR & COFFEE.,
FOR SALE BY,
fr. COP PINGER,
No. 221; South Front-Street.
WHO HAS ALSO ON HAND,
Malabar Pepper in Calks,
23,000 wt. Surat Cotton,
4,000 I'd. llle.of Frar_ce InluCO.
February 17. , I°t>
CONGRESS, OF thr UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REPKESENTATIVES.
Tuesday, January 24.
The bill for enforcing the laws of the United.
States in the Hate of TenneflVeJ was read the third
time and paffcd.
Mr. Dwight Foster, from the committee of
Claims, made a report on the petitions of John
Kelly, Joseph Biggs-, Elifha Haley, and William
Smith, which were againlt the petitioners, were
twiee read and concurred in by the house,
Mr. FoUer also made report on Ihe petition of
Edward St. Law Livcrmore, whieli was in favor
of the petitioner. It was twice read, and ordered
to be committed to a committee of the whole.
Mr. R. Sprigg, jun. moved that the resolution
which he laid on the table some days ago, relative
to the aft for regulating grants of lands for military
fervicss, &c. be referred to the committee to whom
was referred a former resolution relative to the sale
;of lands north-weft of the river Qhia, Jt was're
ferred. "
•Mr. Page presented the petition of John Nellon,
major commandant in Virginia line during the war,
for compensation, Referred to the committee of
Claims.
Mr. Malbone,prefented a petition from the in
fpeftors and gaugers, and another from the weigh
ers and measurers of the port of Providence, Rhode
_lfland, for compensation in addition to their sala
ries. Referred to the committee of Commerce and
Manufa&ures.
Mr. Sitgreaves presented a petition from Oliver
Pollock, prying that the sum of 47*40 dollars,
which the committee of Claims had reported to be
due to him, might be paid to htm durin™ the pre
sent feffion,,exprefliag at the fame time a hope that
he should be allowed the liberty of fubdantiating
his other claims on a future day. Referred to the
committee of the whole, to whom was referred a
report upon a former petition of Mr. Pollock.'
Mr. Henderfon oifertd a resolution to the fol
lowing pjtrpcfe, viz. " That the fccretary of the
t r easury to lay before the hsufe, a lilt
of the number of fubferibing creditors to the U
nited States, upon the-books of the loan-officers,
in each refpedive Hate in the union,
»offices have been established."
Mr. Henderfon observed, thv the reasons why
he offered this resolution, were, that applications
had*of late been made, by several of the eommHfi
oners of loans of the United States, for an increase
of salary, and he thought it was proper before a
deciiion took place upon those applications, that
the house should be poflefl'ed of the bed information
relative to the duties of the officers that ceuld be
obtained. He was of opinion, that when the fata
riesof the commiflioners of loans were firfl: eftabiifh
ecf, Congrefscotild have had no other rule by which
to apportion them, than the size and population of
the ttates, or the fumsexpefted to be loaned there
in. He thought it could easily be made apgear,
that Vieither of these principles would produce an
equitable proportionment of the fulaiies ; thecom
miflioners in the larger dates, would have much the
highest salaries, when it is vety probable, they
might have the lead share of business tonranfaft,.
and on the other hand, the commissioners of the
smaller dates would have the lead salary, with per
haps the grcated proportion of duty. Ordered to
He on the table.
The house in committee took up the fubjeft of
the military cftablifhment, which after long debates
terminated in abolishing the troops of dragoons,
Saturday, February 25.
On motion of Mr. Dwight Foster, tfce future
time of meeting «*.s fixed at eleven o'clock.
. The bill for laying additional duties upon cer
tain articles of impod, was read the third time, and
upon thequeftion being put for its passing, it was
carried by yeas and nays as follow :
YEAS.
MefTrs. Ames, Bailey, Baldwin, Blount, Brad
bury, Buck, Burgess, Cabel, Christie, Claiborne,
Clopton, Coit, Cooper, Craik, Dana, Davenport,
Dent, Findlery, A. Foder, D. Foster, Franklin,
Freeman, Gillefpie, Gilman, Glenn, Greenup,
Grifwold, Hampton, Harper, Harrifon, Hirtley,
Havens, Heuderfoti, Hindroan, A. Jackson; Kit
chell, Kittera, Leonard, Livingdon, S. Lyman,
Milledge, Moore, New," Nicholas, Orr, Page, Pat
ter, Reed, Richards, Rutherford, Sherborne,
Skinner, Jer. Smith, N* Smith, israel Smith, lfaac
Smith, W. Smith, T. Sprigg, Strtidwick, Swift,
Thatcher, Thomas, Thorny Con, Van Cortlandr,
Wadfwortb, Williams.—67.
NAYS.
Meffts. Baird, Bryan, Coles, Egc, Gregg,
Hathorn, Heath, Holland, G. Jackson, W. Ly
man, Maclay, Malbone, Muhlenberg, Parker, Pat
ten, Sitgreaves, S. Smith, R. Sprigg, Swanwick,
Venable, W nn.— 21.
The order of the day on the bill for'mitigating
or remising the forfeitures, penalties and disabili
ties accruing in certain cases thereiu mentioned,
was entered upon, and, after some debate, the yeas
and nays ware taken upon its passing, as follow ;
YEAS.
MefTrs. Ames, Baldwin, Bradbury, Buck, Coit,
Craik, Dana, Davenport, Dent, E*e, A. Foder,
D. Foster, D. Foster, Freeman, Gilbtfrt, Gillefpie,
Glenn, Goodrich, Grilwold, Harper, Hartley,
Hathorn, derfon, Hindman, Kittera, Leonard,
S. Lyman, Macon, Malbone, Millcdge, Moore,
Muhlenberg, Mutray, Orr, Parker ; Potter, Reed,
Sitg-reaves, Jer. Smith, N. Smith, lfaac Smith, S.
Smith, W. Smith, T. Sprigg, Swift, Thatcher,
Thomas, Thompfen, Van Alpn, Wadfworth, Wil
liams.—sl. • «
NAYS,
MefTrs. Bailey, Baird, Blount, Bryan, Bnrgefs,
Cabel,Claiborne, Coles, Franklin, Gallatin, Gteeo
up, Havens, Heath, Holland, A. Jackson, G.
Jackson, Livingdon, Locke, W. Lyman, Maclay,
New, Nicholas, Page, Patten, Richards, Ruther
ford, Sherborne, Skinner, Israel Smith, R. Sprigg,
Strudwick, Van Cortland, Winn.—34.
Mr. Williams laid a resolution upon the table call
ing upon the secretary of the treasury', for infor
mation refpc&ing the expenditure of certain sums
of money mentioned in his late report tohavq been
drawn from the treaftjry, for defraying the ex
penses attending the with toreign na
tions.—Ordered .to lie.
On motion of Mr,. W. Smith, the house resolved
itfelf into a Committee of the whole cn she bill .making
an appropriation frr the profecutio'n of the claims as
certain citizens of the United States, for the property
csptured by the belligerent powers, Mr. Muhlenberg
in the chair j when, after a pretty long debate, and
alter an amendment by Mr.-Gallatin, authorit-ing the
expense, been agreed to, the Committee rose,
and the bill was ordered to be read a third time on
Monday, '
Mr. A. Foster, from the Committee of Enrolment,
reported the bi;lgranting certain lands to [. C. Symrnei
to be duly enrolled ; it received the signature of the
Speaker, accordingly. V
Mr. Nicholas reported a bill authorizing the re
ceipt of evidences of the Public Debt for lands of
the United States, It was twice commit
ted-to 3 committee of the whole. The house went
into a committee upon it, made a report, and it
was ordered to be tvad a third time on Monday.
Mr. Swanwick lepoited a bill for the relief of
John Blown, and another providing for the erefti
on of certain buoys in and near the harbour of Bos
ton, which were committed to a committee of the
whole on Monday.
Mr. Brent reported a bill for incorporating ehe
Cornmiffionetfi of the City cf Washington, in the
Diftrift of Columbia, which was difpofct! of in the
fame way.
On motion of Mr. Gallatin, the house resolved
itfelf into a committee of the whole on the bill to
accommodate the President of the United States,
Mr, Muhlenberg in the chair j when
Mr. Henderfon said, he wished. for information
on this fubjeft, as he haa not'fufficient to convince
him of the propriety of granting 14,000 dollars, in
addition to the furniture now in pofTeflion of the
President ; he therefore moved 1 to fluke out the
14,0C0, for the purpole of inferring SZOO. The
bill informing them that thisfum, in'addition to
what might aiifefiors the sale of fucjt of the pre
sent furniture as may be decayed, out of repair, or
unfit for use,"was to be laid out in furnifhing the
household of the President. It was very lately that
they had received a proportion from the Si-nate to
advance the salary of the President 5000 dollars ;
the bill was rejefted by that house. It appeared to
him that this bill went to effeffthe fame thing in a
different way. if the objeft was merely to fuini.li
the household of the President, he thought a much
less film would be adequate to that purpose. He
thought 5000, with the proceeds of the sale
of the present furniture, as was unfit for service,
mighf be fufficient- He had no doubt that the
sum would make the furniture of the President for
four'years to come, equal to what it had bs®b £>c;
four years pa!i. '.-Jt'
Mr. Nicholas wifljed the gentleman wpsd leave
the fnm blank, indead of inserting 5,000,-,
Mr. Henderfon consented.
The queltion was takes and negatived 42 to 39.
The committee then roft, and the house having
taken up thefubjeft,
Mr. Nicholas said, as a majoiityof the house
was against drikingout this fun), he wilhed to have
some information why this sum was fixed upon_
aqd lor what purpose it was to be applied. No one
wished more than he did to place the President in a
ntuaiion conformable to his fiation ; bat, accord
ing to his information, this sum was more thawwas
given to the present President on his entering upon
tire office, though there-remained the whole of the
furnilute, molt of which was wotth as much at this
time as when fird purchased.
Mr. Sitgrcayes said, he would give to tho-gentle.
man all the information which he had on the fub
jeft. In the year 1778 or 1779, by a resolution
of the old Congress, an ltoufehold was effablifhed
for the president of Congress. This remained un
til the present government went into operation in
the ytar 1789. It was then resolved, that Mr.
Ofgood (houldbe requested to fit up the house in a
proper manner for the reception of the President N
of the United States. In that year the law pas
sed for compensating the President of the United
States, which enafted that a salary of 25,000 dol
lar* should be allowed him, together with the use of
the furniture then in his pofleffion, belonging to
<nc United States. This furniture coit the United
States 13,677 dollars, 83 cents. During the peri
od from 1779, when the household' was firft eltab
lllhcd, until 1789, when the President of the Uni
ted States entered upon bis office, the furniture
which had been purchased for the President of Con
gress, was so much decayed, that it required nearly
dollars to replenish it. It >vas the opinion
of the joint committee, thereffire, that in a lapse of
tight years, viz, from 1789 to the present lime, the
furniture theri purchased mud have experienced e
qual dilapidation and decay, and that a sum at lead
as la'tge as was then allowed (particularly when it
was considered that the price of goods was very
much advanced since that time) should now be al
lowed far putting the present household upon the
fame footing of refpeftabtlity and convenience wit-si
that at New-York,in 1789. Mr. S. did not know
that he could give jny further information on the
fubjeft. It was a matter of notoriety, that a great
par s t of the goods then /purchased were worn out
and deliroyed ; fuchas the household linen, crocke
ry-ware, Sic. and that the President had renewed
them at his own expehce ; insomuch that if he were
to takf out of "the house th« furniture which he
had supplied, there would little remain in it besides
tables, chairs, bedsteads, and a few fucrf articles :
lince all the carpets and ornamental furniture of the
house had been purchased by himfelf.
Whillt he was up, he would wifti to obviate the
only obieftion wfiich had been adduced to this bill.
The gentleman fronfiNew-Jerfey (Mr. Heuderfon)
had ftippoled that this allowance was meant to car
ry into effeft what had been rejefted in another
way, alluding to the proposed advance of salary.
That gentleman might fee a very obvious didinfti
.on between the two things. If J,coo dollars had
been added to the falaty of the President, he could
have disposed of it as be pleased ; but the money
now propped to be granted, was to be employed
in the purchase of futniture, &c. which would re
main the property of the United States, and would
devolve upon the ncsi Prefrient. Mr. S, said, he
would add, that in the joint committee there was
not a dissenting voice to the propoluion, and he ho
ped there would not be one in the house.
The question was put for ewgroffing the bill for
a third reading, and carried, there being 50 vote«
in favour of it. This day and Monday were men
tioned for the third reading, the queftiou was carri
ed for the more distant day, 40 to 35.
A raefiage was received from the Senate, inform,
ing the House, that they had refolvod that the bill
allowing a drawback on Domestic Spirits exported
by the Miffifippi in v,eflels of less than 30 tons bur
then, should be poflponed till next session ; that
they had pafled the bill for the benefit of the widow
de Neufville : the bill for allowing the Secretary
of.the Treafuiy to remit fines in certain- cases ; the
bill for continuing in force the laws against certain
crimes committed against the United States; and
the Poft-Office bill wiih amendments.
The amendments to the Poft-Office bill were
read and ordered to be printed. Adjourned.
Monday, February 27.
The bill authorizing evidences of the public
debt to be received in payment for lands ; and
The bill for suspending the aft for laying a
duty upon fnuff and refined sugar, were read the
third time.
The bill miking an appropriation for prosecu
ting the alaims of certain citizens of (he United
States for property captured by the belligerent pow
ers, was n4d die third time, and after a motion
made by Mr. Kitchell to recommit it in order to
have introduced into it a provision against • paying
the expence of the trials in cases where the property
was legally condemned from the veflels having had
contraband goods on board, which was negatived,
gifted 54 te 27, fhc yeas and nays are as follow :
r 'A s. •
MefTrs. Ames, Baldwin, Bradbury, Burgess,
Coit, Craik, Dana, Davenport, Dent, Ege, D,
Poller, Freeman, Gallatin, Cilbert, Glenn, Good
rich, Giifuol'.J, Hdiper, Hartley, Hathorn, Ha
vens, Healh, Henderfon, Hindman, Kittera, Leo
nard, S. Lyman, Malbone, Moore, Muhienherg,
Maclay, Nicholas, Orr, Parker, Patten, Potter,
Reed, Richards, St wall, Sberburn, Sitgreavet,
Skinner, Jer. Smith, N. .Smith, Isaac Smith,
W. Smith, R. Sprigg, T. Spngg, Swanwick,
Swift, Thatcher, Van Alen, Wadfwonh, Wil
liams— 54.
NATS
Meflrs Blount, Cabell, Claiborne, Clopton,
Coles, Dearborn, Franklin, Gillefpie,
Greenup, Gregg, Hampton, Harrifon, Holland,
A. Jackson, G. J ckfon, Kitchell, Locke, W.
Lyman, Maclay, Macon, Milledge, Ne«v, Ru»
the-rford, Stradwick, Venable, Winn—27.
* Mr. A- Foster came in frwm the committee of
ebrolnffint, just as the clerk was about to state the
vausa;id wifhecj to have been on the affirmative ;
biLjusfck: was not in the house to answer his name
! vfhen called, it was not allowed.
' Tiie bill to accommodate the Prjfident was ,reaj
the third time ; when Mr. Heath moved to have
the bill re-committed, for the pnrpofe of (Irikingj
out 14,000 dolla.s to insert Bpoo. The/fpotion
for lecommument was carried 45 to
house accordingly went into a committee of the
whole upon the fnbjcft, when Mr. Heath made
his motion. It was at length negatived 55 to 36,
The committee then rose, and the bill pafled by yea»
and nays, ps follow :
TEAS.
Messrs. Ames, Bailey, Baldwin, Bradbury)
Buck, -Burgefa, Claiborne, Coit, Cooper, Craik,
Dana, Davenport, Dent, £ge, A. Fofier, D,
Foster, Frelman, Gallatin, Gilbert, Gilmsn,
Glenn, Goodrich, Grihvold, Grove, Harper, Har.'
rifon, Hartley, Hindmai', Ki'.tera, Leunard, Li
vingfton, S. W. Lyman, Madison, Mai?
bone, Moore, Mti|ilenberg, Murray, Nicholas,
Page, Patten, Parser, Potter, Reed, Ri-hards,
Sevyall, Slie.bur. , Sitgreaves, Skinner, Jer. Smith,
N. Smith, 1. Smith, li'dzc Smith, W. Smith,
R- Sprigg, T. Spiigg, Swanwick, S»ift, That
cher, Van Allen, Van Cortlandt, Wadfwoith,
Williams—63.
jv j r S.
M«Trs. Blount, Bryan, Cabell, Christie, Clop
ton, Coles, Franklin, Gillefpie, Greenup, Gregg,
Hampton, Hathorri, Havens, Heath, Henderfon,
Holland, A. Jackson, G. Jackson, Kitchell,
Locke, Macon, Milledge, New, Orr, Ruther
ford, Strudwick, Winn—27.
Mr. A* Foster, fiom the committee of enroll
ments, reported several bill as duly enrolled, which
received the signature of the speaker, and were
afterwards reported to have been laid before the
President.
, Mr. W- Smith, from the committee to whom
was referred the memorial of Jud;je Turner, anjl
also that of some inhabitants of the Northwestern
territory, with the report thereon lalt feflion,
made a report. The committee recommended that
the business should come to a hearing before the
court of that territory, where the judge would have
an opportuuit'y of defending himfelf against th«v
charges brought against him.
The fecretaTy of state made a report on the me
morial of fun dry citizens of the United Stales, re
lative to lofles fullained by captures, fpelutions, &c,
committed upon their property by veifels of the
French Republic, referred to him on the Btfc of
May last. The report took an extensive view of
the grievances our merchants had sustained, from
the year 1793 to the present time, and dated what
mea/urcs had been taken towards obtaining redress,
Mr. W. Smith moved to haye the report prin
ted.
Mr. Nicholas wished to know what was to be
d6ne with it. He thought it very extraordinary
that this memorial should have been referred to 1 the
secretary of state so long ago as the Bth of May,
and that a report fhuuld not have beerr made till
within four days of their adjournment. He tho't
it unneceflary to swell their printers bill which he
fuppefed would be fufficientl.y large-by having it
printed, since it would not be afted upon this ses
sion.
Mr. W. Smith fajd his reason for wiihing it to
be printed was, becaafe he wished to read it.
Mr. Nicholas said that was not, a fufficient reafan
for incurring the expence } ficec, thongh the gen.tlemao might read it, he would not hare the power pei
of acting upon it. He hoped it would not be pis
printed. v Gc
The queftian for printing was put and carried, po
A report was received from the attorney general ter
on the menioiial of John Hobby, marshal of the ha'
diftriift of Maine, which was in his favour. It was th<
raferred to a committee of the whole to-morrow. tit
Mr. Dwight Foster reported a bill which had H
been re-eonfmitted to the committee of claims, for jul
placing certain perfonp on the pension lilt. It was co
referred to a committee of the whale to-morrow. mc
Mr. W. Smith offered the following lefolution dti
to the house. to
" Resolved that a committee be appointed to pil
bring in a bill for extending the time for receiving an
on loan the domestic debt of the United States." pis
It was agreed to; a committee was appointed, so
and afterwards a bill was reported, and referred to; pe
a committee of the whole to-merrow. gr
1 On motion of Mr. W. Smith, the house tefolved bil
itfelf into a committee of the wholp on the milita
ry appropriation bill, Mr. Dent in the chair ; and, C(
after having gone through the greater part of it, po
the hour of adjournment being' arrive;?, the com- th
mittee rose, and had leave to fit again. Adjaurned, Q
Tuesday, Feb. 28. W
Mr. Livingflon, from the committee appointed let
to enquire Whether any and what alterations were
necelTary in the adt past lalt felfion for the relief and
pvoteftion of American seamen, made a report,
which wa,s referred to a committee of the whole to
mjriow.
Mr. Gallatin, from the committee appointed to
confar with a committee of the Senate, on thedil
agreting vote of the two houses on the fubjeA of
the balances due from individual state; to the United.
States, that they hadjield confer
ences with the (tommittee of the Senate, but not Sl
having coma to any agreement, the committee re- I '
commend to the house not to recede from their dis
agreement to the amendments of the Senate.
The committee to whom was referred the amend
znents of the Sf nate to the Poll-Office bill, recom-
mended the amendments to be agreed to. ~
The Sectetary of Stat<(, to whom was referred _
the petitions of George Smith and John Robert,
son, who prayed for a re payment of the money O
which they had.themselves paid for their ransom
from Algerine slavery, reported, that the ranfonjof ~
George Smith cost 2426 dollars, of which Colonel
Humphreys had paid 1J26, »nd Geo. Smith the re
mainder ; that by the late return of our citizens
from Algiers, the expeoce attending the redempti
on of each man was ascertained- to he 2396 dollars,
independent of the expence6 of the general nego
ciation, and allowing for small inaccuracies on ac
count of some expences which cannot at present fee 17
ascertained. He recommends therefore that George w
Smith have paid him 873 dollars, which, with the ''
sum paid by Col. Humphreys, would make about "
J4OO. John Robinson paid for his own ransom
1518 dollars, tlie interelt upon which came to 516 ''
Collars, the secretary therefore recommends that
2034 dollars be paid to him. 0
On motion of Mr. Swanwick, thi: report yvas re. *
ferred to a felc£t committee. f
The house again rcfolved itfelf into a committee !'
ef thfe whole on the military appropriation bill, "
and after debating several articles they got through '
the whole. The committee rose and just as the a- a
Biendments were about to be taken up in the house,
A ir. writing was receiv«d"from the Pre- c
iident of th.e Uaited States, containing his objec. a
tio'ns to the bill for fixing the militaryeftablifhment.
They related to the finking out the dragoons fiom '
the eitablifhment. He thought' them neceflary. '
I"Tie mtffage and the bill were referred tp a com- 1
mittee of the whole to-morrow.
, The house took up the amendments of the Sen- '
ate to the bill for repealing so -much of a former aft '
as relates to the officering and manning of'the
frigates, and for finilhing the fame, which were, ]
to Itiike out the word repeal, and to insert, suspend
till next fejjion of Congress, and to make another part '
of the bill conformable thereto. '
Mr. W. Sir it h moved to conctjr.
Mr. Nicholas trufled the house would not con
cur fmce the fame principle ha?Tbefore been tried j
in the house "<nd reje£t«^J.
The question t® concur was put and carried 40
37'
Mr.Gallatin then moved to pn|lponethe furtlj-r
consideration of the bill until the fii tt Monday in
December next. The amendment of the Senate,
he fait!, which had just adopted, put the bill
uf>on tbiu ground. The law, which was of doubt- j
sol confirmation, was not to be repealed b«t suspend- I
td. This we jid go to establish what was at pre
lent Joubtful. It would be as much as to declare
that the President Ihould the power to man
the frigates ; on tlie other hand, if thev said no
thing, but fuffered ths bill to die, the contrary con- !
ftrui'tjoh wpiild prevail. He thought the true
tanfmiftion of the law at present wa6, that the
President had not the power to man the vessels ; !
but, if the bill were pa (Tech, a» amended, by fnf
pending the power, they would give him power.
If no bill w;s passed, h< was of opinion the Presi
dent would not attempt to man tlie frigates. He
never looked upon this bill ia any other light than
as fettling a doubtful point, and fincethe amend
ment of the Senate had been agreed to, the heft way
would be, not to pass the bill at all.
The question for poflponement, was put and car
ried 43 to 29.
The amendments from the Senate to the bill
making appropriations for the support of govern
ment for the year 1797, were taken up and%greed
to ; as were also those to
The bill laying additional duties on fundr.y arti
cles ps import. The amendments which were agreed
to weic, to add to white Cotton Goods, Velvets
and Ve'verets, •whether printed, flained, coloured or
other-wife, and all Muslins and Mujl'mets, two and a
half per cent. And alio a new feftion, enafting that
an aoditien of ten per eent.' should be laid upon
these articles when tmpoited in Ihips or vessels not
of the United States. The duties are to take place
after the 3 1 ft of Pecember next.
The house resolved itfelf into a committee of the
whole on the bill for placing certain peifons on the
penfian lift ; when a eonfiderable difcuflioti took ! s o
pl»ce on the motion to admit Samuel Hull and a -
Godfrey Sweet upon the bill. The former was pro- '
posed by Mr. Dayton (the and the lat- na ,
ter by Mr Van Alen. Neither of them, it seems, Ca
had complied with all the forms of the law, tho' I
there lentned to be little doubt that both were en ccc
titled. The only informality in the cafe of Samuel fro
Hull was that his affidavit* had been taken befsre 1 h
justices wf the peace inStead, of judges of the diftridt at
court. Mr. D. plead this paor man's cause in the p'-
most feeling manner; he laid his viound* and hi'
distress before the houlVin a way that could not fail fur
to touch every heart ; his feelings as a philanthro- the
pift and a soldier appeared in all their energy—
and the ccnfequence was, tha.t -Samuel Hull was
placed on the penfiijn Hit. Mr. Van Alen was not x
so fuccefsful, though the cafe of Godfrey Sweet ap
peared to be an one, and he had onlv failed to i
give evidence of tlje ratio wf his difaWlity. The
bill was ordered to be engrofled for a third reading, ha
The haufe took up the report of the Seleft ovi
Committee on tjie amendments of the Senate to the r> e
poll-office amj' poil-road bill, which they went tiu
through, agreeing to some and reje&ing others, ad
One tff the amendments agreed to was, that George ou
Washington fha'l have the privilege of franking if I
letters during his life. Adjourned. to
1..,.. ««»■«»»» up
-
AND ve
Philadelphia Tidily Advertiser, ra
—. ■ — —. — W]
PHILADELPHIA, March i. le<
- * F
STOCKS. th
Sis per Cent. - - - - - - Ijf w
Three per Cent. » I ca
4i par Cent. - J . ...... m
per Cent. - -- -- ...
Deferred Si* per Cent. - - . 10/3 °'
iSANK United States, . . - 16 per ct : m
Punnfylvania, ... - jy do. ( a
— North <merica, -- ? . 35 do. (j
Insurance Gomp. N. A. (hares - , 30 per ct, j
— Pennfylv. 4 per ft. adv. »
course of exchange. r «
On London, at 30 days, i» par ei
at 6e days, 6; ni
at 90 days, : 61 1-1 C i
Amftei dam, 60 days, per guilder, 40
— 9° da y s > 4? a
SPEAKING FIGURE.
ri
Mr. Fenno,
I H/\VE so often been deceived by advertise- f,
menu of Speaking Figures, whose comnu. i.Htion v
with the fjjeakiifg was evident at firtt light, ~
that, for lome time I felt no curiosity to vilit thai si
now exhibited in this city by Signor Faleoni. But c
I have seen it, and it is unquestionably the molt as- p
tonifhing union of philosophy and art that has ever n
been offered to the public. ' I believe i is the oniy j'
one of the kind in the •woild. It i» a wxxen figure v
about eighteen inches in length. It is lwtj,ended c
about four feet from the floor by thin eorrfs ; and. 0
in whatever manner the fuund may be conveyed, it j
is demonstrable, it cannot be by eothmuniedtion. j
There is no partition within forty feet behind it ; j
and to exclude every fufpiciAr, of communication, j
i have seen the figure disengaged even /rem the t
cords, and held in the arms of one of the company ; J
and in this fjtuation it conversed with the fame faci t
lity and diltinitnefs as before. The voice ii re j
t markably clear and dillindt, and it leems to be con- ,
fined to no language. I have known it converse in ,
lix, with exa£t propriety and putity. But thewon' .
der does not cease here. This figure will not only
speak, but blow in the ear ot anv person. This |
cannot be effefted on any of the principles of any ,
. speaking figure, I have ever seen or read of. It
will leave the city in a day or two, as I underltand. ,
y The philosopher may find fufficient in it to excreife ,
. his intelledi, and the unlearned to excite his won- j
fier. A SUBSCRIBER.
Mr. Ricketts last evening closed the Entertain- |
" nsents at the Pantheon for the present feaion, with
the greatelt eclat, by the exhibition of numerous
fplenrlio and iflor.ifiiing performances. I hcexeri'ife
3 with tlv Broad-Sword, difplayiug the different guards .
and evolutions with that weapon, in a splendid uni
r form and on a horse superbly caparisoned, was as in
n terefting a fbeilacle as could well be imagined. But
! theama7ing leaps over the foMiers with their guni and
.! bayonets, and over seven horses,' with boys mounted
' j on them, gave evidences of a ltrength and agility be
- : yond the power of conception,
Mr. Fenne,
e The excellent pieces entitled " The Warning,"
merit the attention of every real American. They
3 " ought to he republithed in every paper not devoted
| to French influence, efpecia'.ly No. IV. in Mon-
K day's Gazette. It is however t» be regretted that
j the numhers have been so slowly giyen to thr pub
lie. So good a writer ought to continue his pub
lication at this criiis, when a party of traitors to
jj" the country juftifies the perfidy, insults, and robba
ry it has met with, /I Reader.
s d " MR. FENNELL.
a A Correspondent, who attended Mr. Fen nell's Read
ings last evening, is one am»ngft anutnerous audience
who was greatly delighted with the Recitatioi? oi the
lr " beatftifnt Poem occasioned by the Resignation of the
President and his Farewell Addref? to the People of
•ill the United States, Mr. F- did great justice to the coen
n position, especially on reciting it a second time, at the
e( ] request of the company, who ueftificd their approbat
ion by reiterated appliufes.
• This Poem is read with pleasure by every person
'j who has a taste for el»gant poetry —but it is peculiarly
adapted for public refitations. We learn that it is to.
<ets be repeated to-morrow evening.
or
4 a Mr. Fcnno,
la Qur Jacobins it seems still" wish fhat the power
of those who plunder us may augment and prosper.
101 They (till call pifture dealing,.putting throats, and
3ct (hooting the magifttates of the towns in Italy, Li
berty.
the As a specimen of their patriotism, regard t»
the truth, good sense and philanthropy, you will please
s o rcpublldi the following extrscl from the Auro- ,r et
a. t ' A. 13. ; -.1
"The ew Italian Republic r.f Motif:la, Bolojf. aiu
na, Ferrara, 1 &c. !as already a.iuptcd the French v
Calender, an"! leveral otherJorms of t'at country. Se
Italy, so long fuhjeit to Pie yoke cf civil a:.ri N
ecclefiartical tvranny, \yill ere emancipated M.
front the con L 'ition of de'rufcaunt and tfrvitude.
The Tree of Liberty, It seems, has been planted
at Modcna, - under vvhoff shade a tegenerated peo
pie will rejoice in their deliverance, —Contra (ling
their prsfent fituaiion with the dreary deljjotifoi of
former times, they will never re|ign the rights which
they have gained." L c
me
From an Eajlern Paper. f( ]
Extraft of a letter from a person who has att*nded
the debates in Congress on the Anlwcr to the co|
: Prcfident's Speech, t j,,
" I know verv well there are some petlons who
have fuffercd their minds to be soured ajrainlt our
own Government, to such a degree a» to think it
never does any thing right. The French depreda
tions will strengthen this ill difpotilion : For when co ,
adversity comes in at the door, it is said, love flies
out at the window, I knew a roan who was sure ca
if he met with difappointmentj and affronts abroad, ra(
to revenge himfelf, by letting loose hij bad temper
upon bis wife and children, - The' discontented CQ
party seem to go on exaftly in that method with
our constituted authorities. The French take our
vessels: then who can be tn blame but our Govern*
ment i is the general cry of these gentlemen.
" But if out own Government has fought peacd ce
with all nations, if it has done every thing and neg- 0 £
ledled nothing to maintain it most cordially with tr(
France, vvhere lies the blame ? The long letter ftom B j
the Secretary of State exposes to the public the j a
whole cotrefpondence with the French. No man of
candor ought to allow himfelf to blame our Govern
ment, till he has read or obtained some knowledge
! of, this to! r.fpondence. he has read and w
i maturely refledled on the principles and fa£ts con- w
j tained in it he will not merely conclude that the
1 United Sfates are free from ' all reproach: he will
' further aid lay, (and be obliged to fay, if he 1j n
j tefpetls tVie truth) that no government in the world -g
ever aifted in a more straight and honorable man
ner. Few, iiidee'd, have had fa very nice and diffi
cult a part to aft.
The debates in Congress bave uinformly (hewn
a like delirc for peace. Wben Britain seized our o
vessels. i -"ti or democratic patty were ready to V
ru(h t«ea . n- into violent retaliating m.eafures, f 1
which would inevitably bave terminated in a war. "
Now France.takes'our vessels, the men who were
formerly so violent againlt the Bniilh are far from
' violent against the French—indeed they jollify her
> piratical eondudi, though it is direftly agsinft the
faith of a folmu treaty. These who formerly re- '
coinmeadcd modetate meafutes and negociations to
" prevent a war with Britain, a6t confiftentlyon this
r new occafiot). Not a man of them ever vindfeatod
' the Britilh robberies on the feas,qr urges now any
: volient or irritating measure againlt France—ad
- cordiugly, the people hear not a word of Embar
-00, ot Sctjneftrations, prohibition of all trade with
1 France, kc. See. (Which would be treading exacl-
iy in the Itcps of the democratic party in Congrefj j
• in 1794) they will soon mark the great and ftrik.
' ing diitcreni.e of conduft between the friends to
e order and thole who are called the French party.
» Depend upon it, not a man in Congress has propos
ed either war or any irritating Hep in refpeft to
France. 1 have also with gieat numbeVs
1 of tilt Members in private and Ido not find one
" who is not hearty to pursue the measures of peace <
' and reconciliation.
V I pefceive that many misrepresentations are
' 6 spreading every where on this fuDjedt,but they will
y not long gain credit,
' It is really hoped that General Pinkney, our Mi
! - nifter in France, will explain and remove all the
' e complaints of that Republic.—They are ground
lef->, aiid'Gen. Pinkney is fully inftiufted to make
that appear.
It is believed in Philadelphra, and on very proba
" blc grounds, ihat all the trouble France has made,
a and is making, for us, proceeds from the intrigues
C e of falfe Americans at Paris, in connexion with a
j s junto of the fame [lamp in this,country. They are
ii- doing to mislead France, exadlly what the Tories
n- did in 1774. to deceive Britain. But there is no
ut doubt the French will open their eyes to Gen,
Piakney's fafts and retradi their error before it has
gone so far as to alienate our affe&ions from them
for ever.
GAZETTE MARINE LfST.
[' , PORT OF PHILADELPHIA,
c d ARRIVED,
n . Ship Swift Packet, Glenn, New-York 7
ia t Schooner Archibald, Macey, Halifax N. S. 11
b- Brig Anthony, Miller, Charleston 7
1,. The brig Polly, capt. —r- —, i» arrived at Balti
tc more', from Calcutta. A letter received by her, dat
ed Odlober 15, makes no mentipn of' a war with Tip
)e" poo S»ib.
The Ship George Barclay, M'Allifter ; and Ship
India. Alhmead, both from Philadelphia, had arriv
ed there.
1( j. The Asia 64 guns, the Thisbe 32, and anßther
ice Frigate were lying in Hampton Roads on Thurf
rhe day last. ,
l hc The following vessels belonging to this port were
at Charleston when the Anthony, Miller, failed. •
Ship Harmony, Smith, Loading for Baurdeaux.
George, Rice, Chartered for Europe.
Brig Hannah, Kenny, to fail soon for Philadelphia.
Con Fair American, Richards, to fail soon for the
irly Weft Indies.
i to. .Brig Mary, CaHender, repairing.
Fair Hebe, Eldridge, discharging her ballad.
Charleston, Strong, from New-York. .
Schooner Industry, M'Kean.
iver Ship Northern Liberties, Geddes, was to fail
jer. from Charleston for this port on Wednesday last.
and t
Li- BOSTON, FEB. 2s.
Arrived (hip Betsey, Hart, St. Domingo, 25
to days. Left brig Betsey, Clarke, and brig Apollo,
:afe of Boston. Mr. Wilker, of the Apollo of Wikaf-
Get has arrived in. the Betfry. The Apo!lo t ■i>
; iWn by the Freni '., and ret ky the E ,'ilh
and fewt ftir^ertiiiula.
Arrived brig Hope, Dexret. London 90 d vs ;
Seh'r. Pence and P'enty, Kent. > x Cayes ;Sc r.
Na'icy, Gage. St. Thomas'-. 31 days j Ship
Mercury, Howlani!, St UKt-6, 68 ays.
13y day's Mails,
SALEM, Feb. 21.
From England, we heat the luccefs of the na.?
Loan, by which the firm fu,jp it of the prefe it
measures and adipiniltration is unequivocally expre'l
ed. No other nation possesses equal refoureefv in
the pride of national character. The state of their
commerce has again been laid hefote the public in
the memorial of Exeter to the Privy Council. I*e
distress of their commerce is a favuuiite objeft w tU
the French, and their success has been beyond their
own expectations, as their vi&Ories by land have
greatly a Hilled to accomplifti, what their naval force
could never have effe£ted. The fubjeA is more
painful to us, as it appears to be the ptefent great
cause of the embarrassment of the American com
merce. The French cannot fultain the thought
that their Allies should contribute to the aid ot *
commerce, which it is their firft objeft to deltroy.
In defiance of every restraint of treaty, or equity,
this distress of the British commerce is their object.
All attempts to disguise their purposes are in vain.
From the East Indies we hear of the constant suc
cess of the Englifli against the defenceless colonies
of the Dutch, but we have intimations that new
troubles will arise to the Englilh in their own colo
nies. A war witii Tippoo Saib is expedted, at the
instigation it is fuppoftd of the French, and as pro- N
bably of the Dutch from the conquered colonies of
that Republic. Englifh at the Cape of Good
Hope continue to hold the Town, and by report
we hear they intend to visit the Isle of France,
which has tor a long timn enjoyed great advantage!
over iheEnghlh fhipsin these seas. We hope nof
to expeiience the disquiets of this colony as wc have
in the Welt Indies. By the last accounts iron)
England we have assurances that the damages fut ■
tained in Newfoundland from the Ftench Fleet are
not so gieat as they were at firflt reprefcßted,
We are pr*paring for a celebration of the Birth Day
of General WASHINGTON- All hearts arc ready.
We are to have a public Oration and public Prayers on
theoecafion, with an elegant entertainment ffi.Wafl t
ington-Hall. The sincere joy in the expeflation
thele plcafures, is the highest refpefl we can express.
"borsks.
QUNDRY good Horses for sale, suitable cither for ca£-
J nage or team.' Also, a neat, new, light K.itteree;iej
-.vith horizontal springs, fit for travelling.
Apply at No. 177 Market-dree*.
March 1 i __ **
For S^le,
A GRAND, PATENT, HARPSICHORD
PIANO FORTE,
Entirely new, and one of the best ever imported into
this country. Enquire at the office of the Philade},
phb Gazette. ' ' March r ■ i
College-Hajl.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
On TUESDAY EFEhING, February sB,
At 7 o'clock, will be delivered,
' FIRST PART
APO E M
the President's Farewell Address, with a {ketch of the
character of hi? SuecclTor.
SECOND & THIRD PARTS
The Effeas of GAMING traced and exemplified i*
' thecharadicr of
The Game ft eV.
C O F F E E ?
c Of the firft quality, in hhds, bags and barrels, entifletj
t« the Draw back, for sale by •
JCzekiel Hall,
March I—§6t No. 42 north Water-street.
s Two or Three Gentlemen
a May be accommodated with genteel BOARD and
e LODGING, by applying at No. 59 Lombard street,
, g March I ' wfmßt
0 F O R, S A L Ej
1 J3y the Subicriber, at his Compting-houffl, No. 89,
j Third-.lreet,
A QUANTITY Of
11 Pepper, entitled to drawback . .
Corsica Wine ja pipes
Swedes Iron
Sherry Wine, best I H—so boxes Castile Soap
JJew-England Rum
Sweet-Oil—Beef—and 130 kegs of Butter
£» calks of London Porter and
Several frnall invoices of l)ry Goed>, &c See. .
7 SAMUEL BRECK," Jun.
, March 1 ■ wm<Brf6t
7 JLoli, this day,
•i" I 13ETWEEN No- 134, Market Street, and the New
t- ) Jj Theatre, a Hundred Dollar Baltimore Branch Bank
p-1 Note, whoever has fonnd, and will return it to the fub
father {hall be handsomely rewarded- •
ip WILLIAM M'DOUGALL.
v- March X. §•
er Third Ball.
:f- -a g ESS. FRANCIS & BYRNE beg leave to inform
iVI their fcltolars, friends and the public in general,
re that their Third flail for this season will be 011 Tuesday
the 7th of March, at O'Ellers's AlTembly-Room,-
and Jin addition to their new Quadrille; Cotiiions and
*' Reels, will be introduced, for tne firft time in thb
country,
The German Waltz. ;
' IC And the celebrated PAS RUSSE, which gave such
general fatisfaflion the last Ball.
The gratuitous attendance as usual.
ft. Tickets to be had of Mess. Francis and Byrne, No. 70
north Eighth-flreet, ot at O'Ellers's Hotel. Ladies are
requested to apply to their female friends, scholars of Mess.
... F. &B.or as above, at theia* refidcnce: '
a " N. B. The new dances Will not infringe upon the usual
ift. routine of the evening.
The days of teaching, for their young yupils, arc Thurs
days and Saturdays, from three-o'clock in the afternoon,
. till fix—and on Tuesdays and Thursdays, 'for these of a.
more advanced age«
10, *^ * Private Tuition as usual.
,as- February 5j 4 4wtM 7A New Work.
PROPOSALS
for printing and publllhing, by fubfeription, The
History ol - Pennsylvania,
IN North-.America, frojm the original ;nfli;ution and fcttk>
ment of that province, under th'efMt proprietor and gov
ernor, Willi m Penn, in 1681. 'till after the year 1742;
with an INTRODUCTION, refpefting the Life of w.
PENN. prior to thegrant of that Province, and the religions
Society o f the p-ople called Quakers ; with the FIRST RISE
of the NEIGHBORING COLONIES, n^reparticularly ot
"WES 1 -NKW- JERSEY, and the Settlement of the DUTCH
and SWF PES on DELAWARE.
To which is added,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION Of THE SAID PROVINCE
And of the general state, in which ij. flourilhed, prine pally
between the years 1760 and 1770. Tie whole including a
varietv of things, ufeful and interesting to be known, re
fpttt?)}* that country ,in early time, See. With an appendix.
Written principally between.the years 1776 and 1780,
Bv ROBERT PROUD.
8t Fulcbum e{{ bent facer c rtipublicce, eliam brncdicere hand ah
furduneji, vel pace nl bfUoclarum fieri licet.'* I. (Stalin.
" Sei tnm pier ique arbittentur res betlicat majores ejfc qnam ur
banaSy mimend-a cjt haze opinio." Cic. Oif.
(t rtered according to law.)
44 WILLIAM PENN, the p,rea r legislator c.f the Quakers,
(in Pennfylv nia) had the fucc«fs of a conqueror, in eibblifh
ing and defend-ino Ir s colony, ampng tribes, without
ever drawing the sword ; the goo on els of the most benevo
lent rulers, in treating his fubje&s as'his own children ; and
the tenderness of an universal father, who opened his arms
to all mankind without diftin&ion of fe& or party. In his
it was not his religious creed, but personal merit,
that enlitled every member of society to the prote&ioa and
emolument of the State*"
Essay on Tele rati an, by Arthur o*Leery.
CONDITIONS.
!. This work will be primed in two oftayo
ly bound ?nd lettered, both in sheep and calf, for the choice
of the fubferibers; on paper femilar tothat of the conditions,
MS publijked in the Subjcription papers„
11. The head ot William Penn, h a "dfomely engraved,
will be piefixed to the firft, and a map or (ketch of Pcnnlyi
vania, and the parts adjscent, to the second volume.
Ill* The price to fubferibers will be four dollars and an
half in sheep, and five dollars in calf; —one dollar to be paid
at the time of fubfciibing. two dollars on the delivery of the
firft volume, and the remainder on the delivery of the second.
IV. When one thousand copies are fnbfcribed for, tde
work will be put to press and finifhsd with all conven.entex
pedition.
Subscriptions will be received by Zachariah Poulfon, jun
Printer, No. 80, Ch«fuut-ftreet, and at the Philadelphia Li
brary in Fifth-ftreet; by Isaac Collins. Printer, anctjofepli
James, Merchant, New-York; by John P. Pleafants aad
George W. Field, Merchants. Baltimore; and by other
perfonsboth in town and country.
February 18. tu&f
This Day is Publilhed,
BY Meir* Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the othei
Booksellers, price One Dollar and twenty-five cents, elegant
ly printed oa woye paper, and hot-prefied, by John Thomp
son,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The CONSTITUTIONS of the fiveral States,
With each other, and with that of*the United States;
exhibiting in Tables, the prominent features of eaeh Con
stitution, and classing together their most important pro
visions, under the several heads of administration ; vvith
Kotes and Observations. By William Smith, of South-
Carolina, L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States. t)edicated to ths People of the United
States.
N. B. A few Copies printed on an inferior paper , at
3-4thsof a dollar. .February 6 mwf
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentifttn the
King and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aflortment of evety thing neccfliry
to be used forfhe
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Miaoral Teeth, .and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice in powder j Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
sweetening the mouth and prefeCvitig the teelh—he
also furnifhes Brulhes and foft Sp:;nges.
* t * He livet in Chefnut-lVreet, No. 135, above
Fourtli-flreet.
November 26. tt»
~ ~
Canal Lottery, No- 11.
Scheme of a Lottery, authorized by an a£l«ntitled
41 An aft to enable the President and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Sufque'nannah navigation, to raise, byj
way of Lottery, the film of Four Hundred Thousand
Dollars, for the pjirpofe of iompletinj; the worlu, in
4ieir acts of incorporation mentioned."
Dollars
1 Prize of twenty thousand dollars, so,oos
1 of ten thousand dollars, 10,000
Sj s of four thousand dollars each, to
be paid to the pofiefTors of the fivt;
numbers firft out of the wheel on the last
day's drawing, at which time there lhall
not be less than 500 numbers undrawn,.ao.ooo
10 of two thousand dollars each, 30,000
io of one thousand dollars each, 20,000
43 of five hundred dollars each, 21,50 c
Joo of'two hundred dollars each, 20,c00
100 of one hundred doUaijs each! 10,000
220 of fifty dollars each, 11,000
29,500 01 five dollars each, 147,50s
30,000 Tickets at ten dollars each. 300,000
Six dollars for each ticket will only be demanded at
the time of sole.
All prizes lhall be paid ten (lays after the drawing is
finilhed, upon the demand ol :he pofl'eflSr of a fortunate .
ticket, fubjeft to a deduflion of fifteen per cent.
Such prizes as are not demanded within 12 months
after Jie Drawing is finiftied, of which public notice ■
will be given, (hall be conMercd as relinquished for
ihe use of the Canal and applied accordingly.
At a meeting of the Erefident and Managers of the
Schuylkill and Sufquehanna Canal Navigation— and 1
the President and Managers of the Delaware and
Schuylkill Canal, •
Resolved, That Joseph Ball, John Steinmctz, Stan- i
di(h Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Crea, John Mil- 1
ler, junr. and William Mont omery be a committee ;
to arrange and, direct the mode ef difpefing of the 1
tickets; which committee lhall deposit ths money in '
Bank, to be carried to the credit of an account to be '
pened for the Lottery.
At a meeting of the Canal Board, held January 16. *9?, .
Resolved, That the committee for cpndudling the j
Lottery be direded to commencej.be ,dr,awing on the r
4rft day of March next.
Extradl from the minutes,
Wm. M. Smith, Secretary.
Joseph Ball,
'John Stsinmclz,
&andtjh Forde, \
i ranc'is H'cjl, [> Managers.
James M'Crea, *
Joiu Miliar, jun. '
William M«tilgemery, J t]
Jan.,2®. ° th&f.ff d
•n
Wrrnts a Place,
AS WAITER in u gentleman':- Hyule, a young man.
v/ho has lived for a cojifiuLrable <t oe in fonie of the
firft houses iii the city, and whole chara&cr is fures or
would engage with a finale gentleman to attend on hik*.
Directions left at the New York and Baltimore O.age
' office, No. 10, south 4th, near Market ilfeet* for R 15.
will be attended to. Februarys *j 3'
PURSUANT to a RcTolve of the Boarcl of Trustees of
•,! ' Washimton Academy, in Somrrfet County, and
State of Maryland, j
NOHCE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
. That the office ot Principal Teacher in the said 'school is
. vacant.
A GENTLEMAN qualified tf> teach tNehigher Greek and
a ,fIL Latin Claflics, Ceography, and the Mathematics, with
such other branches of literature as are usually taught in inch
c schools, would meet with liberal encoufrtgemeflt, and, it is
believed, would obtain a very eligible settlement. For the
present, the Truliecs woujd be contract with a per-
iou capable ol taking charge of a Grammar & hool.
Asihis Institution is provided wiih buildings fuffici'ent to
accommodate the principal and his family, and from fevicnty
to eighty boys J a library, an excellent pbtlbfophieal and rni
thematical apparatus, globes, maps, &c; has refpf&ahle
j funds, and is fituatcd in a.plentiful and at/reeable parr of the
* country ; nothing fecms wanting to make it rank amoua the
mofl ufeful feininaricb in this part of the Union, butafuitable
charafter to ptcfide in it.
Propofals may be addrelTed to the fuhfcriljer, in Princei's
s Anne, in the neighborhood of the Academy, or to D ftor
s Martin L Haynie, No 8.3> north Thi.'d-ftreet, Phila
delphia, or to the Printer hereof.
i ' E/IKJZI!,"HAYVIE.
January 10. Feb. ? . tuSfSw
Davis's Law Book-store
, No. 513, HIGH-STREET.
} GEORGE DAVIS unnouiices to his profefllonal friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
Union, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and ready for Sale, from a single volume O an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
, prices, which forfeverai years paA have in so diftiaguiihed a
j manner recommended them to notice.
, Prinied Catalogues combmit the mod extensive colkc.
tion cf the latest Englifii and Jrifh Editions ever imported
, into this country, are pablifhed, and will be delivered gia.tit
on application.
Orders addreflcd to G. D, jn writing from any difta.ice
fhalibe pun£hully attended to*
A,number of 1 RUN"KS for Sale.
, ALSO, TO BE LET,
A Convenient LOFTJ near Market Street Wharf.
ov.B. tuM 3 w
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery*
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, Mo. J5 4 ,'
South SecondJlreet.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For raning Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an Aft of
the Legislature ot PsrjnfyLvaaia, patTcd during the lait
feilion, for building a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Bore ugh" of Reading, i& the County cf
Uerks - . Dollars.
1 Prize of 20 coo Dollars ' - 20,000
1 do. of 10,000 do. • • , 10, coo
3 do. of 5.000 do. - - _ 15,000
4 do. Of 2- y QO# do. . * 8,000
«o do. or ijooo do. - 20,000
j39 do. df 500 fio. - . 19,500
80 do. of uoo do. . ... 16,000
*OO do. of 10c do. - . _ 20,000
3 e ° do - of 50 do. - _ 15,000
1 doi of s°o dc to be paid th'e posses- )
.for f the firft drawn no. J J °
5 dov of 3,000 do. to be paid polTefTors
ot the five iut. wtawn nus 1 5- eoc
do* o 15 do. ; - 141,000
10,©54 Prizes 300,000
*9.946 Hlanks -
3°,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars $30,000
All Prizes shall be paid fifteen days after the dmwing 13
finifhed, upon the demand of a potlettor of a fortunate
licket, fubjeft to a dedu&ion ot twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence us foo.ws the Tickets arc difpof d
of, or perhaps former. of 'which' public notice will be given.
Pinlip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William IVttman,
ypfeph Hwjler, James Diemer, "Thomas Duru/as.
James May, John Otto, John Kcim, Daniel CratJJ %
Sebajlian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the 9th, 1796.
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. i, to be liad at the
| jibove oflice, where the earli«(l iniormafcion of the draw
ing of the Washington No. a, and Patfcerfon Lottery*s,
received, and check books for examination and regif
teringare kept.
1 ickets in the above hs had at Mr, Sheri
dan's Race-street, John Hay, North Thixd-ftreet and
Henry Swcyer's, German To>vn.
January 26 law.tf
■ '< '
Lancajier, Harrijburgh, Carlijle, Ship,
penfburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
The public are requested to take notice, that the part- 1
nerthip which has for fame time subsisted between Mathi
as Slonghiof Lancader, and William Geer, is now difiol- '
ved . but, not ns M. Slough infmuates to the public
without just cause ;as will more fully appear by a' letter •
011 the fubjea: from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the
29th December last. a recjtiil of which is not now deemed 1
necefTary, Any gentleman who wishes to be cir
cumftantially Informed of the merits of this buiinefs, by
applying to W. Qeef xnaj have t,he perusal ef M. Slouch's j
letter, and then can be at full liberty to determine whs- c
ther or not W. Geer is not perfectly juftifiable in attach- (
ing himfelf to any ether per lon in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from PijUadidi>hia to Shippenfburg,
or any other place.
Now from the liberal and fupport the public
were pleased to confer 911 the firft cfibrt in this business, v
William Geer, in conjundioh with Messrs. Reily, Weed k
and v/itmer, is determined to prosecute and carry it on,
with every care, attention and dispatch that a zeal to o- a
the public can possibly exert. C
i he above company, who are amply provided L with
carriages, horses, and every appui'tenance to render the
paflage fafe and commodious, inform thof« who wifti to
patronize and encourage the undertaking, that .they can
take their leats at George Weed's, the ftgn of the White
Horse, Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg, Carlisle r
and Shippenfburg. - The fare as hitherto eilabliflied.
For the further accommodation ot the public, a Stap-e f
will flart every Wednesday from the house of Samuel
Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sunbury in Northumber- f
land county, every Thursday, and return from theace and h
arrive at Harrifburg every fo that paflenger- 1
destined for Lancaiter or Philadelphia, mar proceed on
Mondays. i I
WILLIAM GEER.
LancaOer, Jan. 27, .1797.
N. B. This Line of Stages starts from th® house of *
William Ferree, in Lancaftcr, on every Tuesday and Sa« '
turd ay morning at 6 o'clock, proceeding to the westward;
and from the house of Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg
every Wednesday morning, on the fame evening arrives !
at Patrick Cochrnn's ?n Shippenfburg, and returns from ll
tlience on every I hurfday : periorniing] the fame routine
daily as in its tour frcm Philadelphia. " mwf
] 20 Dollars Reward.
n H 'UN .- v-ay from the Subscriber, living in St. George's
c A\_ h.attar d, New ca (lie county, £icar to Fort 1 enn)
r ftjtc . f Delaware, a ,*• ,/;RO MAN named JACOB, horn
lathis Rate, He is a Ihort, well-made fellow, about 5
> j fee1 4 inches high ; ithU had on when he went away, an o-
L. liye-fiolorfed coittee, of home-made cloth, lined with
wK'.te flannel ail through, ai?d white metal buttons; an old
un a _ r-j jvckc t*o f white-colored cloth, the flirts of which
>f he cut off, to m-.ke it into a round one ; his breeches are
d of a dark gir 7 cloth, very old, and patched in a number
- of places ; white, coarle, yarn ftockirgs ; one pair
of conrfe ftoes, madi worn; and a pair of haifc-v>orn,
,s '. laclw-grained iho s br<und round with black silk fvcrct-
inic, aS4 lined under the buckle with white linen : also a
h'atf-wot-n fur hat, very high in the crown, which tapers
h * n f° rm °f a fugar-loaf, very narrow in the brim and
• 6 in bound with black fi\k ferreting. He alfotook With him
e loncrbluc eoat, lin,\l all through with blue {h'ailoon of
the colour ; eonper, fhqlled buttons with three of
the lame fort on eac'i cuff; a yellow-colored, elastic, old
0 furtQUticoat. Said Jacob is remarkably fond of playing
y on the violin, and took one with the eaie of which
1- is ot Romt-niadc, lead colored doth, bound with redtfer
lc rating. Whoever apprehend# fa,id Runaway, and lodges
e him in any of the geni m tfris (late, so that his matter
|C get him again, iiiall receive the above Reward, and
I- all rciifonablecharges paid by
fHOMAS FARMER.
N. B. Said Jacob has formerly lived with MeflT. James
,r Evco and Thomas Robinson. February ax w :^f4t
For Sale, k
By George Defchamps, iS T o. 91,
'NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and hail ba;rels
•, Ditto Herring an! Mickare!.
c Smoaked Harringin barrels ar.d kegs
Ditto .Salmon, by the dozen or single one
v Dry Cedfifh, fitt-m one to titty kemijs
a Fine and coaj-fe Salt
Nova-Scotia r.ruf French Pltfter of Parjs, in the ftoae
and grornof for-manure and ftuecp-work
1 Decrriber i' * tth&f
THE SUBSCRIBER ~~
e j Vy I - [ITS to afeertain, whether a certain I'D WARD
NLVILL, by tr:de a Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer,
f who quitted IreUijd -"i'i or 1784, and came into
I this Country, ('tis Tujipofed to Philadelphia) about
j four years since, b? living or dead. As this intellir
I genceisof the higbeft impoi tance, it will be thankful
ly received, by ' GEO. DAVIS,
No. 313, High-ftrcet
December 31. w&fjm
For bale,
By the Subfcrtbers—ln PENN-STREET,
| 65 Pipes Excellent Madeira-Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
! WJLLINGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30 w&l
City of Wafhirfgton.
Scheme of the Lottery, No. 11, for the improvement
of the Federal City.
A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & 1
dwelling-house, 5 ca<h 30,000, ire ) s c ,®o®
■ I ditto 15,000 & caih 35,000 40,00#
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & c»(h 10,000 7/I,eoo
I ditto 5,000 Bs. calh 5,000 10,000 /
1 ditto 5,00b & calh 5,000 10,000
x caih prize of 10,000
a do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
so dp. 1,000 - - 10,000
:o do. 500 - . io,t»oo
00 do. 100 - • lo,oeo
500 do, 50 - - to,ooo'
400 do. 15 . 10,000
I,coo do. 1& • ao,ooo
15,000 do. 10 » #50,000
'6,739 Prizes.
3*4361 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last draw.)
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but on* :
And approved notes, fccuring payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will he received for
any number not less than 30 tickets.
1 his Lottery wiH afford an elugant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be eredted in the City of Washington
Two beautiialidef.gns are already Icletfled for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares; from these '
it ispropofed to erect two centre and four corner buildings, '
as foo» as possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey '
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in '
the manner drfcribed in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery. 1
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray '
the neceflaTy expenses of printing, the surplus 2
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National 1
Uaiverfity, to be orecled within the city of Walliiiigton. 3
The real securities given for the payment of the Frizes,
are held hy the President and twp Direilors of the Bank
'of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a- "
mount of the lottery. 1
SAMUSI. BLODGET.
«§. Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; ps
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, Bollon ; j
of johp Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard VVslls
Copper's Ferry. eo *
v ' n
The Subfdriber j!
I N-FORMS the Public, that he manufa£lures and has on o
L handfor laic, a very general alfort men t w
Saddles, Bridles, Harness and Trunks, o
-As usual, a'!o, f IRE BUCKETS of an excellent quality a
all which he will dilpofe of or. moderate terms at No* 8S l l
Chtffrmtftre.t, rhiladelphia. e
WILLIAM JONES. «
Februaiy 17 fm&wgw 0
v
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. South SscOND STRS.ET. t' v
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sale a c
Checlc Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery. . J
Cheek Eooks kept for examination and rf»iftering, for
the City ps Washington, No. 3, aad Vattefon Lotteries,
bpth of which are npw drawing—information where -
tickets are to be had, and prize* exchanged for undrawn r
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New- *
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public Schpol lottery, for
examination.
The lubfcriber solicits the application ps the public
and his friends, who wife to purchase pr fell Bank Stpck,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houfcs, Lands',
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
*„* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill "bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dollers ejeh, whioh wdl be drawn early in
the Spring. * P
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, January 36, 1797. mth
Partnerfliip diiTolved.
* | HIS is to notify the Public, and all oerfons concerned,
) J- that the Partnerfbip of BI.ACK 'iSf WELLS, deal
a ers in Dry Goods, was dissolved the firft of January lad.
5 ROBERT BLACK.
' Philadelphia, February 14, i;g 7 t w
i For Sale
ii By private contraS, a very valuable EJlate, in own by
the name ef
CHATHAM,
l » MOST delightfully situated on the north bank of Rap
a pahanock ri.vet, opposite the town of Fredenckfburg, in
the state of Virginia, confiding ©f eleven or fifteen hun-
dred acres, as may best suit the purcfeafer. There is on.
a e^at c, a large and well built brick koufe, cortainng
f nine commodious rooms, exclusive of a spacious hall or en w
21 eet two pair ot flairs, suitable and conven
d lent parages, and excellent dry cellars. It is placed on a
fine healthy eminence, commanding beautiful views in\
r every direction over the towns of Frederickfburgh and
Falmouth, and an extensive cultivated oountry The
' g rou -"'ds adjoining the house are neatly laid out in plea'-
r ure End kitchen gardens hitcrfperfed with a variety of
j l»rcett«(ees, achoice collection of flowers aud flowering
| ftrubs, and enriched by various forts of the following
j fruits, viz apples, pears,.walnuts,.chefriuts, cherries
8 es, plumbs, nccftarines, apricots, grapes, figs, ralb. rries,
goofebcrries,ftrawberries.and currants; the wh»le admi
. rably varied by turfed dopes which have been formed by
great labour and expence. Bordering ujpen theft: im
provements, are several lots, in a highflate of cultivation,
and well I'ct with red clover and orchard grass, from
which three heavy crops of hay are taken every yei Ad
jacent t,.'reto are two large and ifco 11 rilhingor shards ; one
5 ofwell chosen peach trees, the dfher of apple and pearl
trees, feiededirom the v'e■ * nurseries in the {late. Pro
perly detached from'. the naanfion house are extensive
roomy ofares of every denomination, viz a Kitchen and
Larder, hotifj-keeper's room and Laundry, with a cellar
underneath for a variety of purposes, a fWe-louie and
Imoke house all of orick, adair* and spring house of stone.
e' Stables/or thirty horses, an : coach hoates for four car
nages. Alfoalarge and well planned farm yard, v ith
barn arid granary, a cow. house, with separate (ftalla for
! iirty-Bx grava; caftieapartments for fattening veals,
muttons and lambs ; ext£nf[>u /beds for sheep, and other
J arrangements for stock of every ? defcription, with a large
and convenient receptable for provender, from which they,
call be furniilied without being exposed to the inclemency
-j ' n Weather. An overseer's house, blacksmith's ill op,
and quarters fufficient to aciumjpodate in the best man.
Ncr more than fifty labourers.
1 he arable lands are f- advantageously divided as to af
ford anopportunity of makin'g.a krge qrantity of Indian
corn annually, without bringing the field I'nro fnnilar cul
ture oftner than Once ill four years ; Sonfequeuily the
lauds may be improved by keeping up theinclofuresuuritig
the intermediate years., or may be beneSciailv fallowed for
wheat and other grain at the option of the proprietor.
On the prermfes there is alfe a merchant mill with one
pair of.beft French burr stones, and one pair of Oiogne ;
furnilhtd with modern maciiinery,;ind now leafed'or the
unexpired term of four years, at 1501 per snpum, and all
grain for the ufeof the farm, hopper free, which is near
ly iool. more. Tha mill.and miller's house are tuilt of
fret stone, within a very small distance of navigation,near
to which are two or more valuable lifheries, and a well
accustomed ferry over the Rappahannock to the town of
1' rederickfburg. Ihe laud ccn tains x incxl auftible quarric®
of free stone near to the river, is plentifully fupflik with
remarkable fine water and pofTeffes a due proportion of
meadow, which by having the command cf water may
be coufiderably increased. The roads are good, .nd the
neighbourhood genteel andfociable. tn fadt, excMfive of
an improveablc and well conditioned farm, the value bed
emolument inseparably coHfleflcd witn a mill, ferriei,
fifheries and cfuarrieseligibly situated ; the profits arimx
from an ice-house inferior to none in the state, and a gar
den of four acres so abundantly stocked with vegetable#
of all fort jus to ; be fully equal to the demand in market,
there* might be derailed many other advantages, apper
taming to the fertility of tliefc lands, which the iußfcriber
conceives itunneceffary tn mention, being fully convince.!
that when examined, it will be found to be a complete,
pleafaat and healthy residence, poffefliiig beauti-s and
conveniences fufficient to attract .the attention of any per
ion desirous of becoming a purchaser.
Ihe motive whir.. l i induce*,the fubferiber tQ o/Fer for
lale an d'tatejo fiagitiarly beautiful and advantageous*- is
a dciire to become an inhabitant of Alexandria, where he
caw with more ease attend tb his interests in th£ .neigh*
oourhood of that city
Ihe purchafcr may be accommcwja ted v/ith a few flavej
in families, either for plantation or domestic usd: A pare
ot the purchafc money will be required and thd f balanc*
made easy, the debt being properly fecured
_, , WILLIAM FITZHLVrH.
Chatnam, (Virg) Dec 19, 1796 J'nth —sawzn\
20 Guiijeas Reward.
RANAWAY from the l'ubferjber an the 23d OiSobor,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSJS ; 31 rear#
old; about j feet 8 inches high ; had on a matt green
ooat, with a green velvet .-ape and oval yellow buttons ;
a flriped veil; a pair of diirk spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is profcafclf he may change
his name and dref*.' He has been a':cuftomed t0 driving
a c\rriage, and Waiting. The above r.Avai*l will he
paid for securing him so that the.fubfcrilier may «et hint
again, and if brought home all reaf .liable charges paid by
Robins Chamberlains.
Eafton. Maryland, Nov' 10. 14 inuawtf
F 0 A A A L E, ' ~
A. very Valuable Eltate,
CALLED TWItT EN H A M, situate in th«
towrilhip of Upper D^rby, and county of Delaware,
7 1-2 miles from Philadelphia, and half a'mile from the
new Well-cm road icontaining 23® actes of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime voodv
.and, and the refl arable of the firft quality. There are:
on the premises a good two flory brick house, with 4 room*
®n a floor, and cellars under the who!w, with a purr.p-welj
of excellent water in front; a large frame ban;, (tables'
and other convenient buildings; a smoke-house ai:dltone,
Ipring-houfe ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. ihe fields are allin clover, except those immediately
under .tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
oi water injeachof them, which renders it peculiarly con*
venient for grazing.
The fituatlon is pleasant and healthy, and from the high
cultivation of the land, the good neiglihourhood, and th#
vicinity to the city, it -is very suitable for a gcii. leivian'p
country feat.
The! foregoing is part of the eflate of Jacob Harman,
dece'afed, and offere<l"for falc by
Mordecai Lewis, .
Q&- 31. law Surviving Exec alor
Particular Tenefiffe Wi:ne,
jo .Quarter-Calksfartitfular Veneriffe WIKE,
Of a fjirej-ior Quality,
For falc by A. MARI'LE {# Is. H\ MU.iRIS,
Ko. 60 Dock-flreet.
February t wfemut
PRINTED BY JOHN FEN NO,
v —No. ng—
c u a » m v t-.ST as st.