of tf>e and Phtladelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1603 j
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
Far D R r GOODS.
( Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. 56,
MnnJn« ' south Front-street,
* p Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
C South Front-street.
T Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
eg■ r, j Aodlion, No. 73 south Front-street.
) Afternoon—William Shlnnon, No.
C 183 High-street.
Wedjiefday \ 3enfon » No - 1*
■ I south Third-ftrcet.
Thursday \ Forenoon-Edward Fox.
I Afternoon—John Connelly*.
Fri /a« \ Forenoon—William Shannon.
' " 5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
Footman & Co's AtiElion Room.
'"P'HE public are refpeSfully informed, that the
X (tors of the fubferibers is now open for the
reception of Goods, and the Sales will commence
on Monday next, the 30th inft. when will be fold,
A large assortment of Dry Goods.
AMONG WHICH ARE,
Super6ne and common Cloths
Cafllmeres, Flanne's, Blankets
Coating* and Baizes
Cotton and worsted Hosiery
Chintzes and Calicoes
Chintz and purple Shawls
Book and j.iconet Muilins
White and brown Linens,
Tickings, Checks and Stripes.
.—also —
A quantity of Ladies' Morocco Shrx?v
FOOTMAN 15* Co. Au£liont*n.
Oi5L 14. d
Now Landing,
At Sims* Wharf, from On board the ftiip Cgmnrerce,
captain Chamberlain, from Port au Prince,
35 hogftieads of SUGAR
. *B4 do. MOLASSES
4 tierces do.
FOR SALE, BT
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
OA. it. §
ROSS & SIMSON,
HAVE TOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COT TON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica, }
# St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal j
Oist iy. §
Samuel Pleafants Ssf Sons,
No. 74, South Second-Jlreit,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on
reasonable terms. 0327. —4W
James Id Richard Smith,
TAKE the liberty of informing their friends
and the public, that they have removej their
flore to No. 54, South Front Jlreet, next d«or to Ed
ward Fox's AufHon Room, where they have at
this time for sale, a large and general afTortment of
- European & Ecrfl India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
William Penn, &c. &c.
Ofl. *l. 6
St. Croix Sugar Rum,
For Sale by
JOHN NIXON » Co.
OSt. »6. d^w.
T0 Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114, corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
tontagion. Oft. 27. —dtf
Philadelphia, 03.
ALL persons desirous to cor.traft to farnilh Ra
tions and Quarter Matter's Stores, during the
year 1798, for the troops in Philadelphia, Fort
Mifflin, on Mud Island, Carlisle and Reading, or
any of them, are dclired to deliver their proposals,
under a feakd cover, on or before the aoth No
vember next.* to
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
The Rations to conftft of
1 pound Flour or Bread
I pound Beef, or 3 4 of a pound of Pork
£ gill Rum, Brandy or Whi&ey
1 lb. Candles ,
a lb. Sonp ( eTer „ hundred rations
2 quarts V inegar ( '
I quart Salt J i&ftlgthN
Chocolate and Mustard
Manufactured as u(Ual,
Ginger and Fepper ground
Shelled or Pearl Barley
Bhiladelphia Porter, Beer, Ale and Cyder
London Porter
Taunton and Button Ale
Red Port and other Wines, eithe bottled,
*r by the pipe, quarter-cask or gallon—suitable
Jor exportation or home tonfumption—
For Sale by
John Haworth.
No. 98 south Front street
THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREESLEAF,
HEREBY give notice, that they havedifpofed
<of the pxoperty afligned to them for the securing
rhe payment of the note«, acceptances, and en
dorfenients given by Edward Fox, for the use
.of the Aid James Greenleaf; and thejiolders of
such notes, acceptances, and endorsements, are
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will fettle
with them for the amount of their refpe<Sive
#laims, both princital and interest, at
any time before the 20th day of Oftober next;
after which riav, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of align
ment.
Applications to be made at south-east corner
of Dock and Second streets (the Dock-street
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
•Jock every day, Sundays excepted.
Henry Pratt,
■ Tho. IV. Francis,
John Miller, Jun.
John AJhley,
Jacob Baker.
PW(adelphia r AuguA *B, *797- d
PHILADELPHIA: SATURDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 28,1797.
For London,
THE SHIP
Daniel M'Phcrfon, Master.
TO fail with all convenient fpecd—a cotiiidcra
ble pari of her cargo being already engaged.
F«r terms of Freight or PafTage, apply to
Rofs i : jf Simjon.
Ofl. 27. $
For LONDON,
J ™ E SWEDISH SKOW
Adolphz,
- V Capt. Chs. Wm. Ramte ;
ExpeiSed to fail in all the profent month—A
few tons of Goods are wanted on Freight, and
will be taken on moderate terms, if speedy appli
cation is made. Apply ts
Peter Blight.
Back of his new buildings, pock-street.
OA 19. $
For Freight or Charter,
«§&► Abel Catherine
Burthen about 160 tons.
I HIS vefTel is now ready to receive on board a
cargo, and may"be dispatched to any port in Eu
rope or the Mediterranean in eight days.
Apply to the Captain on board, or to the fabferi
ber. JAMES YARI}.
OA- 19• diet
For Freight or Charter,
THE GOOD BRIG
S U K E Y,
JSfesSWilrL Ifa»c Vredenburg, Master ;
NOW lying at Clifford's whari,and in compleat
order to receive a cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain en board, or
John Slyrin,
No. Bj, Arch-drcet.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
2000 wt.of double refined Saltpetre
660 wt. of F F Gun Powder
300 barrels of Herrings
50 bushels of Timothy Seed
Ijocafefof Claret, firll quality
And a quantity of Sherry Wine.
Sept. 19. dtf
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing from on board the
Brig A.'lrve, William Williams, Master,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale by *
Jehu Hollingfworth tsf Co.
Wilmington, Sept.ji. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
and the brig GAYOSO, are
also for Sale or Charter, and
now ready to reeeive a cargo
on board, at Wilmington. App!y_asjibove.
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
A«d for faleby John Mortop, No. 116, South
Front-street,
Hyson
HyfonSkin
Young liyfon (
Imperial j
April 20. sots
NOTICE.
ALL person* indebted to the estate of John
Striker, late of Tinnecum Township,
Buck's County, are requeued to pay off their
rtfpeilive debts ; and those having any de
mands again!! said estate, are deflred to bring in
their accounts, to
JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN, c 3" > Execu-
MALLE'T PREF ALT, 5 tors.
Sept. aB. 5! la*4 w
TENERIFFE WINE~
LANDING at Walmit-dreet wharf, TENE-,
PIFFE WINE, of excellent quality, in pipes and
half pipes, for sale by JAMES YARD.
OA. n. eoßt
Just publilhed,
And to be fold at the Bcokftorej of H. & P.
Kice, No. 50, Market-street 1 J. Ormrod,
No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, and W. Young,
corner of Chefnut and Second-streets,
An accurate Syfteni of Surveyings
IN WHICH IS CONTAINED,
I. Defimal fractions, in a plain, concise,
and eal'y manner.
a. The extraction ®f the square root.
3. Plain trigonometry, rectangular and ob
lique.
4. An exa<2 method to cast up the contents
sf lands.
j. Field forveying.
The whole beiiig performed without the use
of scale and compasses, oh a table of logarithms.
In which is given some accoust of the variation
of the needle, and the causes of its attraflion.
By SAMUEL MOORE.
A uplift T. aawiw
Lately Published,
In «ne vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar in boards) fold
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
Chefnut streets,
A Colledtion of Papers on the fubjeft of
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years past.
Compiled by NOAH IVEBSTER, jun.
Containing letters from DoAors Seaman, Smith,
Buel, Taylor, Ramsay, Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch
ell,on contagion, &c. &c.
Septus. _ Jt
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just received, by Wm. GuirriTHS.Ne. 177, South
Second-street, a frefh supply of
Genuine Bal/am of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the late Sir John HiU
(who knowledge as aßotanift procured him
the appellation of the Linnaeus of Britain) and is
sonfldered in England as a certain cure for the above
complaints; it is also of lingular «Bicacy in the
Hooping Congh,
It may also be had retail of W, A. Stokes, No.
61, South Second-street, and T. Sntr, 55, Ncw
ftreet, in bottles at 75 cents each.
Wm. GairriTHt having observed the happy cfr
feel of the medicine, (several cases of cures hav-,
ing come within his own knowledge) and the great
demand ,for it has induced him to order a large
supply, a part of which he has just received.
Augujt 3, jaw jrr
By John Fenno, N O, 119 Chefnut Street
Samuel & Micrs Fifhcr,
ARK N»W OPENING,
A t their Warehouse, No. 27, Dock Street, a fr<*(h
afTortment of Woolen other gootls, fu.taMc to
the i'eafon, received by thelatc arrivalt from Up
land.
Tbes have also for Sale,
Lisbon r\
Teacriff-. . (
Sherry, and f P l P <s > hh4s - and quarter cask*-
Port Wines, J
AlTorted queen's ware in crites, &c.
loth mo* diw,^taw3w.
710 BE LET—At a moderate Rent,
The principal part of a HOUSE,
'WITHIN a ihort ditlanoc of the Coffee-houfe,
which has been occupied forthelaft four months,
consisting of a good dining room and parlour, two
bed rooms and a drefling room, twogarrsts, kitch
en, wood vault and cellar, all in excellent order,
fit for the immediate reception of a fiuall family.
None need apply but those who are refpe&able and
r«f£iilar. Inquire at the office of this Gazette.
OA. 24 dtf
Red Port Wine.
Just arrived, by the brig Iris, capt. Rhodes, from
4 Oporto,
Red Port Wine in pipes, hhds. and quarter caflcs
6c cwt. Cork, for sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
July ai. §
CUSTOM-HOUSi;,
Philadelphia, Srpt.itd, 1797.
THE Merchants who at this time prefer hav
ing their velfeli and Merchandize entered and
cleared at Chester or Marcua Hook, —are here
by notified, That in cdmpliance with their de
five, and upon a full conv!A>on that the measure
will be mutually beneficial to them and to the
United States. The collefloi of the cuftomshas
made arrangements to establish for some time
branches of the cullom-houfe at those places,
where every accommodation in his power will
be given to the merchants. diw
TO BE SOLDI
And immediate possession given,
A Convenient well finilhed Brick Tenement,
with a cook house and other out houfet, fitu
atcd in a pleasant part of the borough of Wilming
ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
has forty feet front on Weft-ftr«et, and extends
through the square to Padure-ftreet, on which is
ereded a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE,
Wilmington, Aug. 30.
City CommiJJioners Office,
August 29, 1797.
IN pursuance of an Ordinance of the Select and
Common Councils, pal Ted the aad day of May lad.
Proposals in writing will be received hy the City
Commiflioners for one month from the ift of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leases for one
year to commence the firft day of January next, the
following public property of the city—
The wharf and landing on Vine Street,
Also on Saffafras, v
Mulberry,
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Draw Bridge, with
the Scale and Filh Houfcs, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
The Tavern at the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
rtith the lots contiguous thereto, (except so much
thereof as shall"be occupied by any building* erect
ed fur the uTt of the Colic Aor of the Tolls, or be
neceflary for the toll-gates.) —-
Ang. i Jtawim.
LOST,
ON the Paffyunk Road, between the Blue Baß
and the city, a. Fowling Piece, with a brass
barrel and silver fight; on the plate of the butt are
the letters "Jamaica, 95" —and on the barrel
near the lock '• London" and the Tower (lamp.
Whoever will return the aid piece to J.b* Bernard,
at the sign of the Blue Ball on the Paffyunk Road,
or the office of this Gazette, lhall receive a reward
of Four French Crowns,
Sept. I a.
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an a<£t of Congress of the
United States of America, parted at Phila
delphia, the »Bth day of May, 1796 ; laying du
ties on Carrir.gei, for the conveyance of persons,
which lhall be kept by Or for any person, for his
or her owri use, or to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of palfengers, the several dutiee and
rates following, to wit;
For and upon every Coach, I j dols.
upon every CI ariot, 11 dols.
upon every Pod Chariot, ti dols. .
upon every Poll Chaise, 11 dols.
upon every Phaetoß, witb or without top,
9 dols.
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriage:, having pannelwork
above, with blinds, glafies or curtains,
9 dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, having fra
med pods and tops with Heel springs, 6
dols.
upon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
eryr iron springs or jacks, 3 doll,
upon Curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon Chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel topcarriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or
iron springs, 3 dols.
For and upon all othertfco wheel carriages, 1 dols.
upon every four wheeled carriage, having
framed pods and -.ops, and rclling up
on wooden l'pars, a dols.
The Colle&ors of the Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Didriift of Pennsylvania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September B"xt, lor
the puipofe of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
Germantown; at the house of Daniel St. Clair,Eiq.
in the County of Montgomery ; and at the house
of James CAapman, Esq. in the County ol Bucks;
of which all persons possessed of such Carriages are
desired to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors, that licences will be gtant
ed to them ; one licence for carrying on the busi
ness of retailing of Wines, in a less quantity, or
in less quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the bufincfs of retailing Spi
rituous liquors in less quantities than ao gallons, at
the fame time and at the, fame places, by the offic
ers legally authorised to grant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeitor of the Revenue of the fird fui
vey of the Diftriit of Peiinfylvarlla.
Office of Infpe<Sion at
Germantow, jath Sopt. 1791- i
From Marseilles.
THE CARGO
Of the Sw;dllh barque Guftaviis Adolphus,fi om
Marseilles, cor.filtii.g of the following articles,
is difchavging at Mr. Latimer's wh+rf, and for
sale by the fulifcibers
BRANi)Y, well flavored, of », 3 3c 4th proof
CUret, in hojjtheads
DiTlo, in cases
Frontigniae Wipe, in caTes of 3oboifles
Olive Oil, of a luperior quality, in baflcets of 6
and 1 a bottles
Capers
Olives
Almonds
Dry Verdigreafe
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) of 2?, 30 and 32 inches
TafTetits
Long and (hort white Kid Gloves for YVomjn
Silk Stockings
Handkerchiefs, in imitation of Madrafs
Artificial Flowers and Garlands
Ostrich Feathers
Ribbons
Perfumery-
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomat*m
Manna in forls
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN k
ROBERT ANDREWS.
September 27. eotf
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Coffee
Madeira and Teneriffe Wine
For Sale by
James Yard,
No. —, South Fourth-Kreet.
OA. 6. djw
Imported inthefhipMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Shewell, Mailer,
From Bounleaux, and for sale by the fubferiber,
No. 11 Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy "J
li'ifh market claret in caies ( Entitled to
Medocwine, in do. f" Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatreyd.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4000 bulhels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
. Boston Glass Manufaftory.
THE citizens of the United States are hereby
in.formed v that the manufa&ure of Window
Glass is now commenced at the Olafs House in Bos
ton.
ft is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boston Glass, as it is so well known
throughout the United States to be in every refpeA
greatly superior to any ever imported from Europe.
It will be cut to any fizc commonly used ; and
may be constantly had by applying to Charles F,
Kupfer, at the Glass House.
Orders from the diftaot States to be addrefied to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-street, Boston.
Boston, Sept 30, 1797. O 4 —aaw6w
Mejfrs. Timothy and Mafon y Cbarlejion ; Mejfrs.
Hodge and Boylan!, Halifax, N. C. Alejfrs. Willett
and O'Connor* Norfolk ; Mr. Ellis Price, Alexandria ;
AfeJJrs. Tundt and Broiun y Baltimore ; Mr. Hopkins,
Nexv-York ; and Aiejfrs. Hud/on IfJ* Goodwin, Hart
ford; Mr. Seymour, Savannah ; are requeJJed to insert
the above once a tveek 6 Tie accounts to Ie for'
•warded to the Editor.
At a Meeting of the hoareT^f
Property, June 6, 1797,
Present John Hall, Seo'ry
Francis Johnllon, R. G. > oflandoffice
Dan. Brodhead, S. G.J
Nicholas Bettinger,
Ferfus >-
Samuel Cunningham.)
In this cafe the proof of service of notice
ing inefficient, Itisordered that notice begiv
en in one of the Philadelphia and York newspa
pers weekly, for at lead eight weeks to the
heirs or afilgnees of Samuel Cunningham de
ceased, to atttend the board on the firll Monday
in November next, to (hew eaule why a patent
should net ifTue to Nicholas Bettingei for the
land in question.
(A true Copv.)
JOHN HALL,
Secretary of the Laud Office.
Auk. it- *lawftw.
At the Federal Blast Furnace,
In Carvtr—;for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
Mills.
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THEIR superiority conjtjls in being free from
boles and honey-combed plaees, which are com
monly found in rollers cast in sand, or clay
moulds. Tbeft patent rollers are cajl in iron
moulds, previoujly heated, and <iuHl be found to
be moredenfe, J'oiid and durable than any rollers
heretofore used. Another important advantage
theyl have over others, is, that the necks require
no turning, but are immedaitely fit for use, and
from their accuracy, run <with less friftion, and
require less water to make them perform their
work. They may be bad by application to the
Patentee in Plymouth£ of Gen. Nathaniel Good
win, or of tMejfrs. Thatcher and Hayward
Boston, Aug. 31. Sept. If. s6f.
This Day is Publiflied,
BY Mess. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the
other Booksellers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-live cents,
Rltgant 'y printed on IVove paper, and Hot
prefect,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Conflitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
clalling together their most important provisions,
under the several beads of administration ; with
Notes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
United States.
Bedicated to tha People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copies printud on an inferior pa
ptfr, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
Februaqr6 mwf
Public Notice is hereby given,
THAT the Commiflioners for the DiftriA of
Southwark have removed their hall to the house
formerly occupied by Samuel Goff f Chriilian.at in
she /corner of Fifth Odfc. a.
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUN G,
*2, hejond-ftrcet, cornr r of Chefnut-ftrect,
HrA.S now rrafy for sale, a very large afTort
nient of Englijb, French, Latin and Creek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, fueh elemefitary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Bidionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large 12 mo pries 1 dol 75 cts.
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paptr ; Bookbinder's Boards, Paftcboards,
sheathing and blotting Papers ; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, 6f
the belt polity, used in the counting house, or
public office.
Catalogues of a miscellaneous collc&ion of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. Oil. 24. —,^w6w
Just Publyljfd, and now Selling,
By BENJAMIN DA VIES,
At his Rock-Stork, No 68, Hu'b-Street,
The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AND
ANNUAL REGISTE Rfor the UNITED ST A TES
FOR THE Y A R IJ98:
Containing complete and correA lilts of the Execu
tive, 1 egiflativc and Judiciary
DEPARTMENTS of GOVERNMENT,
And a variety of ufeful tables, ncceflary io be
known in every State of the Union.
Embellijhed zoil/j tivo handfomc Engravings,
One ot which is depi&ive of a melancholy scene
that occurred during the American war.
oa. is. *
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 7.3, South Front Strict j -
HAVE FOR SALE,
100 Hoglheids of prime Georgia Tobacco,
ALStJ,
jo Pipes of Bonrdeaux Brandy,
10 Pipes of old Port Wine
-O<SI. 17. tf
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth street, corner of North alley, No. 34,
HAS FOR SALE,
IP XCELLKNT red liourdeaux Wine in cases and
u boxes, fix years old '
White Graves Wine in caiki
Tirklenburgs
Ruflia Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck
Bag Linen
HefSans
Diaper and Table Cl»th
Empty bags
Common German Cloth
A n aflortment of black coloured RibbVß
Fine German Laces
About twelve t«ns Russia clean Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family us«
Window Glass Aug. ap.—ny^
Cedar Shingles.
THE fubferiber has a quantity of 3 feet Cedar
Shingles of-« superior quality, for sale at 13
dollars p«r thousand.
William Hallorvell,
No. 193 North Third-flrcct.
July 17. eoiit
Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto ditto - Claret in cases
loft raaiiycd, and for Sale by
% ~~~ jftuimM. Cy Atui;I—— 1 ——
Aug. 21. 2awtf
THIS DAY WAS" PUBLISHED,
And for sale by THOMAS BOBSON, at tht
Stone House, No. 41, south Second street,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR,THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Consisting of a variety of Miscellaneous Pieces for
the iiiftrn&ion and amusement of YOUNG PER
SONS—SixVolumeshandfomely pri&tedand bound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these pieces are
such, that the book needs only to be known to be
universally efleemed one of the most valuable pub
lications th t can be put into the hands of young
purfons.
" Delightful task to rear the tender thought.
To teach the young idea how tu Ihoot,
I o pour the frefii inftru&ion o'er the mind.
To breathe fh' enlivening fpirit,and to fix
The generous purpose in the glowing breast."
Thomson.
August 44. mwf4w
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS VOBSON, at the Stone
No. 41, south Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Temng Ladies, on improving and im*
teretting fubje&s.
Translated from tl.e Dutch of Madame de Canting
with alterations and improvements.
Printed onfine paper, and neatly bound y
Price one foliar.
AM IDST the tide of modern Romances, painHng
tales «f extraordinary distress, or of ddfpernte or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," aa4t
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, becauf*
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
char after is exhibited in an intcreftingpoi view,
andprefents examples of real and attainable excel
kfwre.
The publiftier was fomuch pleafedwith the perit
fal, that he was persuaded he should do a pleasing
ferviee to the community by fendiuj it into circu
lation. Anguft 24 —mw4w
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Aniflerdam and Hamburg, andforfaleby
: B. y J. BOHLEN,
, A large ajfortment of Jme French Cambrics,
Platillas Kuffia and Dutch fail cloth
Bnttannias Writing, port, and priai-
Rouanes ing paper
Brown Holland Dutch calf ftins
Checks and (tripes Prime madder
Ticklenburgs Shell'd Barley
Oznaburgs Looking glarffcs
"White (heetings Hollow glass ware
Diaper Slates
Brawn rolls Coftee mills /
Umbrellas Brass kettles
liair ribbons Scythes and straw knivss
Blick and white laces Toys aftorted in boxes
Btfl. Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Madeira Wine
July 24. m&thtf
[Volume XII.t -vrr*v TWfpmwi .
l OiIE.GN INTELLIGENCE.
-Li : _.
F 11 A N C T..
COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED.
25 Thermidor—Auguft 12.
Giiittenmrdet complained of the citlay in
r''? printing' of the report of thp committee
infp'e&ors.
Aitbry fa!d, that the committee thought
•t tlieir dilty to confine- tliemfelves to an ex
trajft of the documents, without p-.ibltffoing
the fgntfmtm ; beeavife, dotibtlefs, it was'
not the intention of the councils who ccm
r.romife, to expose the parties to any dif
gra re.
Johranyme moved, that the council fTiouliT
Confine itfclf to printing the report ; and if
-.'. Ny member wished to consult the docu
ments, the Committee will communicate
them. ,
OsriSr said that the report without Ac
documents was useless; ; he wiflied to print
the whole or none.
Triffael declared, that the documents
might belong to those by whom they were
coramunicittd, and that they were independ
ent of the report He therefore opposed
printing of the documents.
? lontrnajor contended that the documents
ought to be made public.
Vladier called for the repeal of the decree
which orders the documents tp be printed.
Thi? proportion was adopted, after two
appeals to the council, and in spite of the
most violent opposition. But the council
pasTed to the order of the day upon the pto
pofal to repeal the order for printing the re
port.
Aubry rend the definitive provisions of
the resolution concerning the organization
of the national guard. The article relative
to the formation of the corps of cavalry and
the company of artillery, by which the
guard was to have been augmented, experi
enced new difficulties. As it would require
many months, perhaps, to call from ttoe
iftflerent coqjs of the arrmes the horse and
the artillery, the reporter prcpofed to take
the-a out of the 47th division.
Ta'ot asd general Jourdan insisted upon
the literal execution of the article, ant} pro- ]
posed to have the service continued by the
ftrft company of artillery and the firft. regi- '
inent of dragoons ; by whom it had hitherto
been performed.
This proposition produced debates. At
last, however, it wds adopted, with an
amendment of Le Normaod, to the effedt
that the artillery and horse (hould be fubjeft
to the rule enadied in the last resolution.
Willot, in the name of the military, pro
posed to enaft, in addition to the resolution
of the 10th Thermidor, that the disbanding
of the Genfdarmerie, ordered by the law of
the 25th Pluviofe, should extend to all the
oßcersof the corps appointed since that pe
riod, and that the directory (hould give an
indemnity to such officers as had been at any
expense in changing their situation.
26 Thermidor I —Aug- 13.-
The long debates on the tranfa&ions of
the commiiTaries of the treasury with the
company of Dijon, in which the former are
charged with making bargains scandalously 1
improvident, were this day terminated.— !
The council closed the difcufiion, and de
clared there was no room for deliberating
on the motion made for hearing the com
miflarics at the bar. The council declared
the urgency, and adoatfil .the—arcyedk of
I'l.l'. -—a-'.i. TW_&»«r former commiflSrleS"
are difmified, and are to be immediately re- ;
placed ; the dire&ory fhallcaufe them to be
prosecuted before the tribunals.
Bourdon de l'Oife complained that some
soldiers pafling along the Boulevards, had ,
Hepped out of their ranks and aiTaulted some |
citizens, on account of the colour of the col
lars of their c©ats. He said that as the ex
perience of the revolution had proved that
similar conduft had always been the prelude
to civil difientions, he moved that a meflage
(hpuld be sent to the direftory to desire
them to take measures of police to prevent :
the repetition of insults by the soldiers a- !
gainll the citizens on aacount of their drefi.
Adopted.
27 Thermidoj-, Aug. 14. !
Metz rose to speak on a motion which
flood for the order of the day. He an- ]
nounced, that the enemies of public tran- 1
quillity do not ccafe to put in praftice every 1
thing which may tend to spread alarm a- !
mong the citizens, and to inspire them with
a mistrust of the paternal intentions of the
legislative body. In the department of the '
Upper and Lower Rhine, faftious persons
overrunning the country, spread the report J
that the legislative body feck to establish a
reigning religion, to make another Bartho
lomew's Day for the Protestants. They 0
then prevail on them to sign petitions which
they do not understand, filled with declama
tions against priests and emigrants. The 0
orator then related asa ft not less important. "
Although the legislative body has declared
that the pay of the troops fliould have the
prefer"" :e, the troops do not however re
ceive any thing, and they are told to resort
to the legislative body. He moved, that a
meflage be sent to tho directory, requiring
information refpe&ing the delay experienced (
by the troops in the discharge of their pay.
Adopted. *
The municipal adminiftratio* of the com- -
mune of Saintes transmitted to the councih
some new details, relative to the troubles
attempted to be excited by the anarchists t
in this commune on the 27th and 28th ult.
at the fame time a copy of several orders ~
and proclamations which serve to maintain
public tranquillity. They conclude by af
furirig the council, that they may rely on
their attachment, as well as on that'of all
good citizens, who will remain faithful to _
the constitution of the 3d ye?.r.
Duranty denounced an inftilt which he
had received frSm an officer of the guard
of the legislative body, who, notwithiland- /
ing his being a rcprefentative of the people, he
ordered his tjoops to arrtft him, and, on
■ their refufal to obey this illegal order, h;d
: can fed 'them to be puuifted.
This denunciation was referred to the
. committee of infpediors.
FAR I^7July i 9.
From the C/'f du Cebinet.
n The public mind is not become entirely
s tranquil ; for the divisions between the dif
ferent powers Sill exist. We hope, how
j ever, that the ccmmiflion named to make
the report relative to the meflage of the di
,r rc&ory, and which has chosen Thibaudeau
1S for its chairman, will be able,to remove the
, 'alarms of the public. In the mean time,
f. another peace has been signed, public spirit
is improved, and the last Pete has given
d 1 courage to the true republicans. The hopes
If of the royalists and anarchists vanifli, and
the per# e begin to be more attached to
e their government.
From the Republican Francais.
e The report of the removal of the minif
t ters, and the names of the persons by whom
t.iey arc to be succeeded, is confirmed.
;s Ine minister of general police is difmified,
c and is succeeded by citizen Aftier, formerly
I member of the central bureau. The mi
j nifler of marine, it is said, is-fucceeded by
citizen Gourland, formerly direftor of the
. East-India company.
General Brune, who has a high reputa
c tion with the patriots of the south, has
been appointed temporary commandant of
Q Paris, in the room of general Chanez.
c Ihe report of the infpedtors of the hall,
jj read the day before yesterday in the fecrct
_ committee of the council of elders, has for
_ ,ts objeft to inform the legislative body ot
the aftual situation of Paris, and to autho
,f rife the com million to take measures of fe
, curity. The fubjeft was difcufled, but
e nothing resulted from it.
e fion of jnfpeftors tended to offer the pro
. j °f an organic law on the io2d Article
t of the constitution, conceived in these terms
• fh 2 Council of Elders can change the
j rehdence of the legislative body. In this
c cafe it {hall point out a new place, and the
time on wliich the two councils are there to
1 aflemble. The decree of the Council of
_ Elders, on this fubjeifl is irrevocable." Af
'ei_' 'he day on which the decree is passed,
_ J neither of the councils can afiemble or de
-5 liberate in the commune where they previ.
! ou fly The members who (hall contin-
ue their funftions, Ihall be guilty of an at-
tack on the fafety of the Republic.
Such are the formal provisions of the
[ constitution. We do not positively know
whether the Council of Elders, as reported,
is employed in the difcuflion of this fubjeft ;
• we eannot lee in the present circumstances
. the advantage or the necessity of such a dif
r cuflion "which seems to us calculated only to
alarm ar.d difgud the city of Paris, and to
increase the chances of danger to the legis
lative body. If it is threateaed by any per
ils, they do not arise from fitting in this
commune, the immense population of which
if, on the contrary, a security calculated
to impose upon its enemies, and where the
force of opinion by it is surrounded
is a bulwark still more powerful.
j LONDON, AUG. 19.
Although it is pretty generally under
stood that ministers are acquainted with the
articles of the treaty of peace between
France and Portugal, we do not find that
■ can throw a/ldilional light on ilie nature,
- •wtcirt, or value of the facrifices mutually
made by the contrasting powers, and the
situation in which the event immediately
■ plaeei Great Britain. A few days must
make us acquainted with those momentous
arrangements, and enable ns to judge with
some accuracy of the degree of influence
they have on the general politics of Eu
rope.
The objedl of the king of Sweden's jour
ney is not known, nor even guefled at, by
the politicians of the North. He left Stock
holm suddenly, after having entrnfted the
administration of his kingdom to the Count
of Wachmeifter, Baron Sparr, and Baron
Douglas. 7he preparations for this depar
ture have been so secret, that on the very
eve of it, the circumstance was doubted.
From Stockholm he went to CarlfcroH,
where be embarked for Stralfund. Hav
ing reached that city, he made no stay, but
went forward into the heart of Germany.
On the 2d of August he was expefted at
Hamburgh, having crofled the Elbe.
A person on board the vefiel which
brought the last Paris papers from Calais to
Dover, was seized immediately on landing,
and detained in custody; but it was not
known on what account.
ej- University of Pennsylvania.
QSoler 27, 1797.
THE different Schools of the University will he
opened on Monday, the 6th of November ; of
which, all who are concerned, are requeftcd to
take notice.
By orJtr of ibe Faculty.
Wm. ROGERS, ISecretary*
] ' POST OFFICET~~
Philadelphia, oSober 26, 1797.
THE Poft-Office will be removed t«
No. 34, South Front Street, on Saturday
the 28th inft. at half past 12 o'clock, p. m.
and on Monday, the 30th, the letter carri
ers will begin to deliver as usual.
N OTIC E. .
THE Offices of the Department of War are far
'the pr sent rer.iove<} near to the Falls of the Scuyl
kill, on the Ridge Road.
September 4. dtf
The Health-Office
IS removed to the City-Hall, and is kept open <
night and day, where persons having business may
apply- Wm. ALLEN, Health-Officer.
Sept- 4- dtf 1
A Wet Nurse wanted.
A Healthy V/omnn, with a young 6rea(l of *
milk,'who can be wel! recommended", may '
hear rf a place by inquiring of the Printer. •
OSt. 23, iw t
%]jt <o&sette*
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVFMNCI, OCTOBFK 18.
" —■ .nnw^-muU'i— lyrrm, .. ,i .
\ Continuation of Latejl Europtan Nrtus,
received by the It r iHiam Petin.
ROME, Ju'y 24.
u A courier arrived here a few days ago,
e with a letter from the directory to the pope,
in which are mauy strong expressions of ef
t teem and refpedtfor his Holrnefs. The di
n re&ory has also expressed its concern at
s learning that feme French agents had, since
j the conclusion of naacc, levied arbitrary con
-0 tributions in Ombrfa and the Marche, and
therefore directs thata diminutionofyoo.ooo
crowns shall take place in the payment of
the contribution agreed upon by way of in
demnification.
We hourly expeft the fiew minister of
France, Joseph Buonaparte, brother to the
general.
LONDON, August 25 —28.
Storace and Braham have been very un
fortunate in the firft duet they were engage*!
in out of this country. They were imme
diately sent to prison on their arrival at Ca
f lais, in their way to Italy. The joint me
lody of their fafeinating drains could not
supply the want ps a passport.
tn the late quairels on black collars,
r which have now entirely fubfidcd, the in
, habitants of Paris did not take any part.
A curious developcment has taken placg
in the American legislature, on a very ex-
traordinary fubjeft. It appears that Mr.
.Blount, a member of the senate, and others,
entertained the design ofinducing the Brit
ish and the Indians to attack the Spanish
[ fettlemcnts in the Floridas and Louisiana.
Some fay the objeft of this enterprise was
' to furnifh a pretext to the Spaniards for re
■ fufing to give up to the BritiHi certain posts
' agreed to be evacuated. But the political
parties, which run very high in America,
' pretend that the projeft had 3 very different
purpose in view. The English party in A
merica fay, it was entered into in hopes of
1 embroiling either France or England in a
war with the United States ; and the French
party affirm, that it was promoted by the
English fattion to aggrandize this country,
at the expence of Spain. Each charge
the odium of the measure upon their oppo
nents, whom they accuse of being bribed,
the one fay with French, the other fay with
English goIU. It is very manifeft, that if
the Spanish settlements had aftually been
attacked, the tranquillity of the United
States would have been endangered ; and,
whatever might have been the obje&s of the
plan, it certainly was abase, treacherous un
dertaking. The disclosure of it has aston
ished the Americans, by whom it is univer
sally reprobated ; and the mercantile inter
est in London will, no doubt, rejoice at the
failure of a plat, which, at this time, would
have given a terrible blow to our commerce.
Mr. Blount has been expelled from the sen
ate, and impeached. We shall give the
proceeding at length in our next.
The late lord Mountmorres was one of
the most rigid and systematical economists
living. His manner ofpafling a day in the
winter time was nearly thuß : Equiped with
-» Water proof boots, and an
umbrella of huge diameter, he bade defiance
to the inclemency of the season, and whiled
away the mornings in visiting the new shops
in Piccadilly. He took his dinner five
days out of seven at the Piazza coffee-houfe,
and regularly appeared at about half past
eight at one of the theatres, but if the even
ing loured, tie found his way under the
cheap and convenient shelter of the colon
nade, t« one of the stage boxes at Covent
Garden. With these peculiarites, there is ,
reason to believe that he did " more good
by Health," than many who had five times
his fortune.
The posthumous works of Mr. Burke,
which are to be laid before the public in the
ensuing winter, consist of another pamphlet
on French affairs, and a Journal kept by
Mr. B. for many years, entitled, " His own
times which contains many details ref
pefting the political scenes in which he was
an aftor, as well as an observer. To these
the Editors, Drs. King and Lawrtnce,
prefix a life of Mr. Burke ; which, if wor
thy of the fubjeft, cannot fail of adding to
their reputation. The whole will make a
large quarto volume.
It appears by the last letters from Rome,
that the Pope has of late passed some time
at Monte-Cavillo, to recover from the con
ferences of an apoplt&ic fit he was lately
seized with, and which, added to the drop
sy in his chest, announces the impending
difTolution of Pius VI. Peaceable citizens
feel the more uneafiuefs on the approach of
this event, as symptoms of revolutionary
commotions begin already to appear, and
the moment ofthe Pope's death is anxiously (
waited for by Buonaparte to unfold and ,
execute the grand proje&s he has said to ,
have. All perfens able to leave Rome, de
part from thence to avoid being present at
the cataftrophc they dread.
PARIS, August 21.
" LIVE FREE ! OR DIE !
The officers and soldiers of the army of the 1
Rhine and the Moselle, to the executive 1
directory of the French republic. (
" 24 Thermidor—Auguft 11.
" CITIZENS DIRECTORS, ,
" Profoundedly affli&ed by the evil heap
ed upon the republic, and by the progress •
of royalifm, the army of Italy has presented <
addresses, supplicating you to adopt the <
proper measures for consolidating the con- '
ftitution, which is now fllaken .to its basis. 1
Witnesses, and in a manner, the vift'iis of <
the affinations committed by tlje murderers 1
of the fonth, the coiiqnerors of Lodi and 1
Areola befeeched you to protest their rela- j
tions, daily immolated by the daggers of (
those atrocious ruffians, who are armed by
the priests and the fuppor.ters of the antient
tyranny.
" More patient, Vhe army of the Rhine
and Moselle has not hitherto communicated
to you the grief which it has felt. But,
citizens directors, there is a time for every
thing, ntid the measure is now full. We
have heard the eppeal which the divisions of
Angcreau, Joubert, &c. have made to you
—we fuffer like tbem. If, deeply interested
by the dangers of their country, they be
ready to march into the heart of the repub
lic, to flop the effufion of the blood that in
undates it, you may. be/ a (Tared that we
shall not remain indolent fpe&ators of their
labors.
"With the refpecfc that is due to the Gift
magistrates of a free people, we supplicate
you to do justice to our claims, to tfiSJa?
them known to the patriotic members of
both councils, that, in concert with vou,
they may consider of some remedy which
may be instantly applied.
" Having conquered two-thirds of mili
tary Europe, how could it be conceived that
enemies should dare to ?magine they had
gained their cause ? They have, however,
obtained a great part of what they demand
ed. In a short time, the monarchy would
have been established. What a dreadful
profpeft is presented to us by the firft pro
ceedings of the prsfjnt legislature !
" Citizens directors, notwithstanding your
folicitudcs, the children of the republic, its
supporters, are vilified in the interior, and !
are destitute of every thing upon the frontiers
which their courage alone has given to their
country. The obje&s which ought chiefly
to have fixed the attention of our legislators
have been put aside ; and far from following
the' line of eoflduA which the happiness of
the people prescribed to them, they have
dwelt upon the most frivolous topics. Many
of them have been exclusively employed in
gratifying the most odious passions. The
public good, which ought to be the order
of the day, has been replaced by a thirst of
vengeance. All that love of liberty that
charafterifed the former assemblies of the
republic, is extingnifhed. The constitution
and the sacred rights of the people are no
longer refpe&ed—Who knows but, one of
these days, they -will order us to go to mass ?
—-they have already made us fajl !
" Our finances, so much mismanaged,
were almost exhausted. A civil war was
scarcely terminated in the weft, when ano
ther recommenced in the south. Foreign
agents endeavored every where to mislead the
public mind. What has been done to reme
dy these evils ?—More than twenty fittings
of the council of five hundred have been
employed on hearing reports on priejis, on
bells, and on emigrants !—Emigrants and
Priests ! Those who delivered Toulon to
the Englifb, and A face to the Imperialijls—
thofe who have involved us in the war, and all
its miseries, have been recal'ed by a decree, wel
comed and honored.—The bells most be re
cftablifhed, while no plan of finance is adopt
ed, and though the defenders of the coun
try should want every necessary. The pay
of all the armies is several months in arrear,
and no clothes are delivered to them. The
hospitals are not attended to, and our lick
and wounded brethren die for want of pro
per support and assistance. Are the civil
hospitals better supplied 5 What are the bells
to us ?
" The conquerors are naked, and defect
has been profitable only to the vanquished.
In feveralquarters provisions have constantly
and totally failed. If the troops have sub
sisted, it was only by depriving the inhabi
tants of the countries in which they were,
of some of the articles necessary to their ex
istence. What would be thought, then,
if we should speak of the Milliard,
which was promised us with so much ear
neftnefi when our services were wanted ?
None of us can any longer rely on the pay
ment of it : and it even appears, that the
only reward they reserve for us is shame
and contempt.
" But private interest would still be si
lent, were not the honor of the country
concerned. How have the defenders of the
country been treated in the interior? Worse
even than the soldiers of Conde, whom
they have beaten, They have been vilified
in one place, proscribed or assassinated in
another, and every where infnlted, when
they appeared in the most refpeftable uni- 1
forms. No, citizens directors ! we have 1
not renounced the honor of being French '
citizens : we know what is due to us—de- 1
gradation belongs not to our charadter. ]
But even the legislative body, in debating ]
for five days upon the march of the troops
which passed within 12 leagues of them,
have proved that they viewed us only with
terror, we may fay even with horror ? Are .
we then, foreign troops, or enemies of pub
lic liberty, that they treat us with so much
severity ? We founded and we maintained
that liberty, and no power in the universe
shall tear it from us. Ought we not to be 1
astonished when we are declaimed against in ]
the national tribunal by emigrants, the pre- c
tended representatives of the people whom <
they detest. t
" Royal terror has been substituted to 1
an anarchical terror, of which we are equal
ly the enemies, Such are its effefts, that t
the tribnnals every where acquit assassins z
and conspirators, while they ftriice f
pity all wliq are fnfpefted of patriotism, of t
being purchasers of natioaai property, or t
merely of being moderate friends of the t
constitution. In support of wjhat we ad- t
vance, we refer to the judgment pronoun- a
ced in favor of the conspirators Brottier, a
Dunan, and Lavileharnois, the known a- t
gents of Louis XVIII. and that in favor 1;
of the priest Poule, who attempted the life
of the representative of the people Syeyes. c
The purchasers of national estates are every ii
where plundered, and excluded from offices d
of trust ; while the emigrants, recalled by f
new laws, exercise almost every public furic- f
tion. So great indeed is the effedl of this t
royal terror, that when the law upon politi- si
cal and literary aflVmblies was presented to v
| r the council of five hundred, it was paffcd
t I without the necessary forms being observed.
, One member only offered to speak against
z ! that violation of the liberty of the people,
1 j but he was not heard ! It belongs to the
, . present period alone to have produced fucli
f 1 examples.
e i "Ten thousand officers, who have no
f j reward for their services but the wounds
i • which, they are covered, languish in thein
-1 , teiior, without support and without fuc
: ' cour.
- I « What fate, then, awaits those whose
- j zeal has so long and (till detains them under
: the standard of liberty ? We know already,
r that several officers have been replaced by
men who are not known in the republican
t armies, others will soon be,replaced by
-• those emigrants whom they h ve combated
rf Our enemies no longer disguise this plan,
f which they have begun to carry into effeft.
, In the debate upon the Gendarmerie, did
i not several members of the council of five
hundred declare, that it was necessary to
- place at the head of that corps all theoffi
t cers who had served in it before the revolu
-1 ; tion, whatever might be their opinions '
> We are then about to fee the aristocrats
- f androyalnls reiWd to their command—all
' those who fled to the different courts of Eu
-1 rope, a/feing alms of the enemies of their
• country ; those, in fine, whom we have
for fix years combated. It has been said in
• the tribune of the council or" the ancients,
| tllat all those who pojfejfed virtue and talents
waited only for thepropitious moment in -which
i they might return to the fa-vice of their country.
■ What then do ivcpojfefs ? Wounds ! If, then,
• we boast no titled anceffry ; if we have nei
. ther gold nor affeftion for king; : it is not
r kT r" 5 16 j e " J ,° y he b!effin S s of peace ! No
r bie lcoundrels who concealed rhemfelves du
■ ring the war, are about to replace us '
' "We had reason to expeft, from the
, French blood that had been every where
t jhed, and the innumerable facrifices that we
■ have made to our country, a fulid and crlo.
: rious peace : but what enemy will treat, with
: us while they fee us agitated by a powerful
' ta^ lon > which they are convinced will de
' 311 meanß of continuing the war,
, which disgraces us, and would even deliver
r our frontiers to their cohorts; when hence
forth no plau can be formed until the utility
of it is discussed at the tribute ? No ' un
, der these Orcumftances we cannbt have
i peace.
" F^ e / e n we doubt not, wiflt
that the lafb of us should remain upon the
frontiers, and expiate, by his death, the
crime of having vanqsifhed the kings, their
protestors. O country! O defenders of
the country ! you are then about to be de
livered by those detestable being, to the fa
telhtes of tyranny. The despots whom
you have so often humbled, are about to
put their yoke of iron over those brave
heads which have been covered with so ma
ny laurels. Perfidious wretches ! they speak
of their attachment to the constitution,
which they undermine—which they tear
leaf by leaf, while they continue to invoke
it. No, citizens direaors ' we will not '
endure this. We require other pledges
than hypocritical protestations. We are
fatigued with vain promises !"
Mejfage of the executive direßory to the cottn
"f fiy hundred.
28th Thermidor, (Aug. 15.)
" Citizens Reprrfentatives,
You have desired the executive direc
tory to acquaint you with the measures a.
dopted agamft the author of an article in
serted in No. 581, of a journal entitled the
Kedafteur," to cause him to be prose
cuted and brought to condign pumfhment.
I he executive diredory reply to your
message, by transmitting to you a copy of
the report made on this fubjeft by the mi
nister of justice, in purfuanee of their or
ders.
" This report terminates with general
obfervrJions on the necessity of ftemmiW
the torrent of disorder and corruption, pro
ceeding from the licentiousness of the preft
The direftory have thought proper not to
separate these remarks from the report, as
they fully coincide in opinion with the mi
nister of justice on this head.
The dire&ory have further thought fit,
citizens representatives, to inform you, that
the journal of the Redafteur is one of those
public prints which are most in the habit
of publishing the ads issued by government,
yet the e&cutive government take neither
the lead part m the conduaing of that pa
per, nor do they either direaiy or indireftlr
pay its authors. 1
(Signed) " CARNOT, President.
" LEGARDE, Sec. Gen."
Report of tht mhifier of jujlice to the executive
dlrcQory.
" 28th Thermidor, (August ir.)
" Citizens Directors,
« You have direaed me to examine in a
legal point of view au article inserted in the
Redadeur, No. 581, refpeaing which the
council of hvc hundred sent you a ineffao-e
on the til instant (July ,8) and to make ,
report on this fubjea. I ah. going to ful,
fil this duty. 6
" The council of five hundred had judged
this article to be contrary to public orcL,
and to v.olaie the refpea due to the nation
al rtfprefentation ; but it is not this imputa
tion, however serious it may be, and what
ever weight it may derive from the author,',
ty which prefers it, I am here to enquire in.
to : I must confine myfelfto discuss, pursu
ant to your orders, whether there exist law»
again ft the abuses of the press ; and oafe
they do exist, whether the article under con
sideration is to fall within those laws.
" You are not ignorant citizens direa
ors, that there is nothing more excites the
indignation of all good citizens, than the
daily abuses of the sacred right, conquered
from defpotilm, and one of the most precious
fruits of the revolution, to express and mul,
tiply our thoughts, refcycdfrom the inqui
litonal fetters of cei.fure, and to exercifc,
with refpea to the depositories of p„bli p1 > ilrpofitories of public autKisrity, th;
■i ijperiatendince of the public
but in proportion as an institution is great
and ufeful, its corruption and degradation
becomes more criminal. It is from, this
principle, that the poisoning of springs and
rivers at all times been" claifed among
the blackest crimes, as by this heinous deed
the sources of fertility and life are convert
ed into elements of death and deftruaion.
' Struck by this disorder.the Reprrfentatives
ofthc Nation have more th:n once beirn engaged
in ilifcaffiotu tesding to remove it. They have
ennfidered this important aueflion in its double
relation to the public intere'l of the country,and
to the private interest of the public funflionaries
and citizens; they have viewed the mifchief
which may be done with the press, either by se
ditious provocations or hv calumnies and fesn
dal ; but in this last point' of view they have
found their attempts obftraaed by obstacles hi
therto thought infurmoantable, and the only re
futt of their legislative exertions on this head, is
the law of tie 28th Germinal, fourth year, the
fifth article of whieh is as follows:
" Authors, who fhill allow themfelvei to
compose, and in general all persons, who (hall
print, diflribute fell, hawk about, or difirihute
writings containing prevocations, deemed crim
inal by the law of the 27 Germinal, (hall be pro
feciitcd in manner and wife as tlw said law di
re ils.
" The provocations, judged criminal by the
id article of th- law of the Germinal, are
thoi's /hi h ha»e for their ohjeil.—
The dilFolution cf the National Representa
tion, and of the Executive dire^iory.
" The murder of all or any of the members
which compose them. I
" The rtftorition of royally.
*' The re-eftablilhment of the Constitution of
J 793- i .
" Thereftcration »f the constitution of 1791,
; and of any form of government different from
that which is eliablifhed by the constitution of 1
the third year; 1 1
" The invasion of public property : <
" The pillage and spoliation of private pro- i
perty, under the name of Agrarian La« », or in (
a-.iy manner whatever.
" Of all these criminal provocations, the firft j
is the only one with whieh I fhal! compare the I !
aiticle inserted in the " as being j 1
the only one any wayconnefled with the infer- £
rr.a'ion, which the Council of Five Hundred de- 1
fires to obtain. ,
" Now after hiving perused with the utmeft ;
attention the article under confideratior., Ican
not find, that it contains any thing tending to r
provoke the difloliition df the National Repre- '
fentation. I found in this article 1 severe
and bitter censure of some operations of the.Le- d
piflative Body, fereral of which remain as yet p
mer< proje£U or refolations; but I have not been 0
able (0 discover any expressions, which, on re- w
presenting these a<s\s as daneerous for the public 1
weal, proposes as a remedy the diflolution of
the authority from which they proceed. 0
" That this article is written in a bitter and t<
reproachful tone, which but little belongs to a y
writer who speaks of the Representatives of the p
nation, I (hall not undertake to deny or juftify. c ,
I had merely to enquire, whether there existed
a crime, and consequently matter for a crimin-
*1 prosecution, Jnd this qutfiion I find myfelf
obliged to decide in the negative. ti
" This infta.ice, however, chofsn from a fc
thousand others, offers one advantage, namely ar
this, that it proves the infufficiency of the laws ar
on this head. You are «ot ignorant, Citizens
Direflors, thit there exists great numbers of
far more criminal, b*caufe their crimes
and their pernicious results recur daily, who 7J
make it their to defame the firft autho- di
ritiesofthe RepublK., totalumniate the Kepre- tu
fen'atives of the people of theirMagiftrates, to ne
recofrn'.ea murder and aflaffination, to discredit vc
the purchase of National Domains, "to <Cttaek the
Republican tnanners inllitutions and denrmina
tions, to ridicule your arretes, to excite a civil en
war, and to protract that with Foreign Powers. an
And yet all these crimes remain unpunished, ow- ga
ing to the infuffici*ncy of the laws, though un- an
der the present cjrcumftances they are tar more tjfc
culpable than they might be at any other peri
od" tir
" You have compelled the most formidable ene
mies of the republic to for peace. Nrgotia- °P
tions, on which depend the fate of Europe, are pe;
opened under the auspices o r vidlory. You ap
proach the nsomcnt when, after haviDg dilated a
glorious peace, you will fee humanity recovering
from the calamities of a dreadful hut neceflary
war ; and it is at such a time that infamous wri
ters lead allray thu public opinion, deceive the so- f ro
rei„n powers on the moral (lreogth of government, •
inspire them with ejtravagant hopes, by calling
to recolleelion an order of things which isabolifli- °*
ed forever-; inflame paflions which peace would Wi
allay, and eonfumnoate their execrable wotk by ed,
promoting distrust and di'.eord between the two on
main frripgs of the political machine. ,
" The indignation of the Council of Five Hun
dred has been roused by an article, which cenfurcs
their operations; but what will be their feelings
on reading the fo'lowing paflage, literally extracS- of
ed from a public print, which I received this
moment from on« of your commiflioncrs:— ,
"We had in France a monarchy .founded I4hun
dredyears ago, and which ujider the reign of the
Bourbons, had attained the most resplendent glo- trie
Ty ; the French conftitution,it is true, was no more the
drawn up in writing, than that of Lycurgus; j, en
but it was attefled by the records of history, and q <
by thoufan .'s of public monuments Among thi °
three coiftitutions fabdituted in Its place since war
1789, the'.e is none, in the fabrication of which rive
the people have not been grolsly defrauded in their so t
rights.—That of 1791 was manufactured in open w j t ]
co.ntradiilion to the inftruiftioßi and powers recei- ,
ved, and the o;her two without any inftrudions or ™
powers at all. Whatever attempts again ft the mo- °' 1
narchy were made Vy the firft or constituent as- the
fembly, it prefcrved at least the eflence of that mer '
form of government. The second r-flembly, tho' f a jj,
more audacious, swore even to preserve it, and ,
proscribed only the person of the monarch. But er ,
the third, called the national convention, an im- mat!
pure compound of debauched ruffians and atheists, uate
inviud by a tyger (Orleans) and influenced by the y en
the attraftioiis of immense booty, after having OUJ
terrified the nation by numberless maflacres, abo- p
lifted monarchy, not only without instruCtions £m l
and powers, but alio without any miflion whatev- on t
er, and completed its outrages against the monarch nia,
by the most cowardly and mod cruel aflifiination JJ
« Ye new £,ntlemen of the council of elders, j^ ren
lay your hands-on your hearts and. dare, on your , .
own principle,: of an absolute nullity, to maintain c, "i
the validity of that abolition. Can you, agreea- both
bly to the moral principles you have always pro- \S
fsfled, excuse that interdiction and that murder ? o bvi.
Your Clence on these two points (hall serve us {a | ne
fftr an answer. The nation will itfelf in due time .
and place examine, id, Whether these men are '°"S
able and worthy to make eonftitutions and laws ? lumc
idly, Whether their constitution of 1795, which Matt
they have cejnented with the blood of our bed ci- q£ }■
tizens, is more admiflible than that o! r793' w bich
they have abandoned ? Until such times as the na
tion {hall have recovered fudkient liberty to rhoofe P ro J c
between a monarchy and a republic, we feel no latioi
difficulty in acknowledging the national repref. u his ti
tition in the two thirds of the B<slua! legidativc to.
dy, because thry have been cbofen by the people.
But till the arrival ot the ]d third, you are only a _
ptovifional government, flrft to ul vi.'.'e tije mod
>w- . efih, and above aH, to corre&that depra
; v of manners, which the convention encour
rreat jT 1 " 5 * nv -'* OU3 (d*cre?s and ipfarnotis conduit,
ation \ e<?ont *y > to endeavor to pecom'penfc the body of
I t . * naflf n, torn by the difperficn of its mofl wer
tn.s thy and most 3iftingui(hed numbers ; and 2dly, to
i and rrepare a be'ter regimen, whatever may be its
long " rm - '
deed " ' !) aTC E' VCH the necetfary orders t«profecute
vert- '. ea " or .' eventually the printer of this arti
cle, since it obviously contains fnch provocations as
on. are pointed out by the la vofti e ißth Germinal,
tives bu you will be able to judge by th.s article, citi
aged zens directors, of the audacity of certain jeurnsl
have ' ljs . who now lay down the hypocritical mask un
iul)le , "er which they hitherto thought proper to conceal
,and i themselves.
Aries | " lc legiflstive body will, no doubt feel the
ihief ne stffi'y ps checking this unbounded licentiouf
y fe- *' is no raor- liberty of the pref-,. than a
can- narch y is government, and the right of carrying
lave arn,s » the right to aClffinate.
j hi- (Signed) " MERLIN."
r re- —^■■■■« ■«
d th' By this clay's Mail.
LONDON, Augult 22.
LETT ER of his BRITANNIC MA
•im. JESTY, to the KING of PRUSSIA, fj
pro- " entire confidence which I enter
di- tain in the patriotic fen(;iments of your ma
jesty, as well as the friendfhip which I flat
the ter myftlf your majesty reciprocally enter
arc tains for me, induce me to inform you with
lta- out hefitatlon ttia t his imperial majesty had
f add re (Ted to me as eledor, a circumstantial
iers and detailed letter relative -to your takioj
' pofleffion of the imperial city of
the dependencies of Eichrtadt, and the ■
1 of , Equestrian Order Immediate, which took
place lad year, on account of the principaji- |
om tle ® Brandenbourg Franconia. His
of ma jesty expressed a desire to know my opi- '
j nion upon these events, and at the fame time ;
desired my interpolation with your majesty. j
r ?" j "As his imperial majesty, in the differ
in ; cnt proceedings which have taken place on 1
; this fubjeft, is delirous to discharge the du- J
he I fy prefcfibed by the capitulation of eleftisn 1 t
llg in a manner that must redaund to his hiph«il !
;,r- glory, and at the fame time manifeft tf)e ,
le- high consideration which he entertains for "
your majesty, accordingly I conceive that, ! X
» n my quality of eleaor, and agreeably to I
l 0 m y ut 'es, I cannot and ought not deny the P
•e- ,ec l u eft of his imp«rial majesty. e
re 'I lam very far however from wifliing to I
*- decide upon the legality of your majefty'* o
et pretentions, or even to enter into a difcuflion h
of their principles. I /hall content myfelf
*" with relying upon the wisdom and upon the 1
of knowledge of your majesty, which cannot
overlook any thing conneaed wiah the fyf
„t tem of the constitution of the German em-1 m
a yire> over the prefcrvation of which you are' fe
>e principally called upon to watch, and I fhal? fi<
■d °" lr rc^er *° n °ble and generous fentij- v <
menta which your majesty thought proper d<
If to prescribe to yeurfelf in the public inftruc- cc
tion, published the 27th of March, 1792,
a for the regencies of Anfpach and Bareuth, b«
y and on the fpecific fubjeft of thepretenfions w;
8 and differences which might arise faid th
I® principalities. du
" These feutiment* and manifeftations of
0 your Majesty leave me no doubt of yoar
disposition uniformly to support, by consti
tutional means, your pretenfionj on your
0 neighbours in Franconia, and of ceurfe that
• you will leave your less powerful co-estates, of
1 and other of the empire in the a i
1 enjoyment of what the law fecurctto them, fm
and what you allow to your own fubjeftt a
gainst yourfelf, to wit, their maintenance
• and re-establishment in a legal and incontef
-1 tible pofleflion.
"In thus teftifying with pleasure my en- ffol
tire confidence in your Majesty, I take this
. opportunity to renew the affuranees of the M:
. perfect efteera with which I am, &c.
(Signed) " GEORGE REX."
NEW-YORK, Oa. 27.
The son of the marquis La Fayettt failed
from this port yesterday in the brig Clio, a f t:
1 bound to Havre de Graee, in expe&ation c '. t l
of meeting his father and family in France. *" s
We sincerely with his hopes may be realiz- ter<
ed, and that happiness may once more beam er
on that unfortunate family. He was attend
ed by his governor, Mr. Freftel. a^'
lar^
The reftittition of the important fortrefs ! )< *^ <
of Mantua, and the acquisitions which
Austria h*s made in Italy at the expence eel
of Venice, indemnify her amply for the loss ' on '
of her former dominions in the low Coun- du "
tries, and the Milanese. The frontiers of S en
the Imperial pofleffions in Italy will, neC(
henceforth extend westward as far as the ex . lt
Oglio, southward as far as the Po, and east- min
ward probably as far as the point where that ever
river discharges itfelf into the Mediteranean, tere
so that the city of Venice will be contained tac ' <
witln'n the Imperial frontiers. The line of attai
demarcation being thus drawn, the country emi!l
of Brescia, the Veronese, and in general wa ?
the whole extent of domination which for- l atic
merly constituted the Venetian Terra Firma in
fall to the ftiare of Austria; while 011 the o- mor(
ther fide the Venetia part of Iftria and Dal- ant *
matia, together with all the small 1 (lands fit- ''S 0 '
uated off the eastern coast of the Gulph of e '
Venice, as far as Ragufa, form a prodigi- '
ous encreafe of power, and will enable the
Emperor to extend hereafter his conquests ne nc
on the one fide into Turkish Dalmatia, Bos- dut y
nia, See. and on the other into Italy. and :
By this new demarcation, the political edan
strength of Austria is greatly increased, by IS
being rendered more compadl and more fit 1
both for attack and defence. c
Whatever may be the eonfequencf, it is '
obvious that the House of Austria has at
tained one great advantage to which it has
long aspired, by having an extent of sea coast f , orn
fufficiently considerable to raise a navy.— to
Matter of the whole Adriatic Gulph, and ra .' ''
of the coasts on each fide of it, the Emperor
is now at full liberty to execute that favorite W
projeil, and to multiply the commercial re- tant c
lations of his fubje£is in the different parts of and
his territories. \_Lond. Pap. are
—>■ of thi
PROVIDENCE, Oaober 21. T1
On Wednesday next the hon. General print:
Jfpra- Aflembly of this Aatc will meet, at South-
S: K-'"gftown.
>dy of During the progress of the late epidemic,
. wer- thirty-fix persons died here, and fikteen it
lly. to Bristol. Both towns are now happily freed
be its from the disorder, and business going on as
recute formerl 7-
,
ans as day lall fnom New York, three sons of the
uin il, late duke of Orleans came pafTt ngers.
clt j- At Bristol, on Tuefclay last, a French
- rn gentleman by the name of Montpellier, in
nceal a insanity, (hot himfelf through the
head with a pair of pistols, Another pair,
I the loaded, were fpund in his pocke.'s.
im! wmwiwiimi
sua- *—• —-——an "—•
ying Xlje ettc*
iij* PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVCNTNG, Octobfr JB.
j , SUBSCRIPTIONS.
Amount of the fubferiptions received for
IA- the use of the lick poor, £c. of the city
i, ! j and liberties of Philadelphia, continued
ter- from the last publication, dols. 1718 96
ma- Received fince —
3at- From Michael Prager, of Philad. ,100
ter- Benville, of Burlington, 100
ith- Samuel Chew, of Chester town,
had Maryland,
tial A citizen of New York, by the
irtg port, unknown, ' 10
rg, BenedicSl Dorfey, of Philadelphia, 35
the From the citizens of Newburyport
jok in New England, remitted to Sa
aji- | muel Coates, by Mofe3 Brown, 600
lis '
pi- Total received from the 25th 1
me ; Aug. 1797, to this day, j 2j, 3 9°
f. | Published by order of the committee,
er- 1 SAMUEL COATES, Treasurer,
on ' *** The several printers of the news
lu- papers are requested to republifh this for
'eu ' the information of the fubferibers,
fc
he I Two persons more of the White all fa-
For mily have deceased of the prevailing fever
at, ' than have been mentioned in the papers, viz.
to | Do&or Benjamin Whiteall, a refpeftable
he physician of Woodbury, and Job Whiteall, •
eldest son of Job Whiteall, deceased, of Red j
to Bank, making ten in all, in three families J
r'i of the Whitealls—in the fame neighbour- j
an hood, Bos whom died of the fever,
elf
he 1 health-office:
ot ' Odlober 27, 1797. I /
-f- A communication was read from thecom- I ;
n-' mittee of Southwark, who hadformed thtm- t
re selves into a Board, to render service to the i
ill sick and diftrefled during the prevailing, fe- I 0
i- ver, informing, that the fever having fubfi- j
er ded, they had come to a resolution to dif- I f
c- continue their meetings.' I/,
2 1 Resolved, That the thanks of this board 11)
i, be conveyed to the committee of So«th- I a
is wark, for the constant and effedlual service I
d they have rendered to their fellaw-citizens, Ite
during the prevailing fever.
>f \ Published by order of the board. Ibi
ir JOHN MILLER, J un . be
i- Chairman.
r \fc
t Died] —Mr. John Clark, Silk Dyer, bi
, of this city.—His death was occasioned by
e a sprain of hii ancle in putting on a very I
, small boot. I /
c of the city, Miss Ann Harker. I
I St
- I 0 f
gomerycounty, Mrs. Catherine Miles, cc
wife of Colonel Samuel Miles, formerly be
' Mayor of this city. t,r
.John Witt,Printer, aged 23. j v ' c .
I tei
Died, At Perth Amboy, on Wednef- I ur
day, the 4th of Oftobcr, aged 72, James lo '
I Parker, Es«i_ Mayor of that city. His I ' a !
attachment and zeal for the prosperity of the I
| city in which he presided ne3r 30 years, and I
his incessant endeavours to promote it* in- I t ),
terefts, will be long held in grateful lemem-1 w>
beraDce by his surviving fellow-citieens.— I fav
Poflefs'd of a strong mind and uncommon I
assiduity, he attended to the business of a I
large and extensive estate, till a few weeks I ', n '
before his death. His talents and perfpicu- I -
ity in business for a long series of years, have I :Vo
been universally acknowledged, and u ill be I
long remembered, and his example'of in-I S ei
duftry as woithy the imitation of the rising I
generation. Altho' deprived of the leiftire I
necefiary for a punftual observance of the I p v i c
external dtjties of religion, he was not un- I
mindful of its high obligations ; and when- I Sch
ever opportunities offered to advance its in-1
terefls or defend its doftrines from the at- I
tack , of infidelity, he eagerly displayed the I
attachment of a chriftian. He poflefsed in Bri
eminent degree the virtues of hospitality,
was beneficent and charitable without osten
tation, in hit principles, firm and unshaken, Sch
in his friendfhip, warm and sincere ; in the -*aa
more endearing relations of brother, hufhand
and parent, tender and affe&ionate. Re
signed to the will of an unerring Providence, '
he expired without a groan amidst his dear- vory
eft connexions, his afflifted consort and ;
children, in whose fond attentions he expe
rienced not so much the merited returns of
duty, as the effufions of love, gratitude
and veneration. How much he was refpeft- a
ed and esteemed whilst living, and how much
his death is lamented, his family and Wends, • n,
the town in which he so long and •'
the .country at large, arf sensibly g
and can abondantly tcflify. va . it
The pofTeflion of spice islands conquered
from the Dutch, has become'lefs an objeft
to the British, since the discovery of seve
ral islands abounding 111 spices of various
kinds, and particularly the nutmeg.
Withhi the few last years, several impor- W ea
tant discoveries of this kind have beeumade, a f ce
and settlers left on the islands, where they wan
are employed in making large pla taiions ticn
of the'nutmeg tree. p rr t
This is stated on the autho.ity of Asiatic beet
icn,
mth- The brig Grace, in which Mr. Mar
shall, the other commissioner, took his
mic, paHage, was spoke the 31ft of August,
■n at - 0
reed POST OFFICE.
in as Philadelphia, 03. 27, 1797.
, c 3» Letters for the Britiffi Packet,
the f ? r Falmouth > * rill be received at this
Office until Tuesday, the 31ft inft. at
inch 1 2 o'clock, noon.—N. B. The inland
, in postage to New-York must be paid,
the
ia,r > THE Letter Bag of the Guilaf A
dolphz, for London, tvittvietaien from the
Poji-Office Monday norm. 03. 28.
GAZETTE M A RIN E LIST
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
18.
*** l»*0. DA'YI
Ship liltrtj, Ramcg* Havre 01
r Two Friends, Davidftn Hull
'"j „ Clnpatra, Newell London c 8
»ed Brt S John Henderfon, White do. 8 c
96 Schr. Polly, Davis St Domingo
IVtnfield Packet, M'Neran, Norfolk 6
John, Wafs Bo fi on - .
Sloop Polly Gifford R. [/land 12
Mary, Pry or New-Tori 6!
Eagle, Denyhe j om <5
C! EARED 03.6.
Ship Experiment, Jenny, Leegane, via N.C.
Schr. Svccefs, Cool:, Sum,,am
9'h— Ship Htr.de, Patot, Par! au Prince
Brig Concordia, Sauter, Civita Vcche
Georgia Packet, Reynolds, C. Francois
~c 1 N Z mph ' Wd6 '
36 Schr - Minerva, Andaulle, Port au Prince •
Flying Fish, Lee, Jeremie !
Sloop Nancy, Hardy, J om
tr. 1 -J—Barque /dAana, Lee, Hamburgh
'9- 20—Shop Nalhy, Chufer, St. Barthol.
or 21— Ship Joanna, Boggs, JVilmington,N.C.
Maryann, Stewart,
■ b J7< c Jf ero ' RvJl, Sal "»
Schr. Dove, May. Norfolk
61 Ship Phcemx, Grice Amflerdam
z- Schr. Daphne, Morse ' N. Orleans
I I Cleopatra fell in with a 16 gun French
pn vateer, which, after a chacc of several hours
'd flood off for the Jbib Induflry, capt. Rudd, -
e8 f rom London for Virginia. Captain Ne- )
r- well apprehends the Induflry is taken.
By the brig Diligent, Capt. Wm. Sherman,
2 8 days from Petit Guave, V
Left at Petjt Guave, Jloop Robert and IVil- ' I!
Ham, Coulthard, Baltimore, to fail the 26th
1- September \fchr. Greyhound Dejhields, Balti- 0
1- niore, to fail the 3 cth ;fhr. Bet fey, Upton
e Salem, to fail 6th OSober : brig Sally, Hampton,
°J\ Philadelphia, at Acquin, bound round to
r" ff?' V Guave. Sept. 25, off the Mole, spoke
flhfoner Julia, Nicholas, New-Tori, bound 0
Petit Guave, Same night, was boarded by J
brig Pelican, treated politely, and j lei
- after aflrid examination, allowed to depart. w
e Next day was boarded by a French priva-
> jeer and treated politely.
oSober 3d, lat. 23, 00, long 73 00, spoke
brig Chatham, Stanwood, from New-Tori, cn
bound to Jamaica, out 10 days. m '
' OSober ith, lat. 27, 20, long. 74, 00, spoke
schooner John of Norfolk, from Savannah,
, bound to Aux Cayes, out 19 days,
r VeJfeL up at Liverpool, Augufl 17. Jo
' For Philadelphia,—Diamond, Eaflb urn ;J at
P'ggy, Elliot ; Sarah, Serves ; Diana, Phile:
' Prosperity, Craig; Commerce, IVetificoat.
Capt. Newell of the Clevpstra wa« bcardtd, son
Sept. t, by a boat with 6 men from thefliorc, Mi
offthe lizard, who informed that peace was ;
1 Concluded', having read it in the papers the day ycc
before. Lat. 44. 34, N. long. 17, W. saw a
brig (landing E. S. g. At 1, P. M. saw a brig
/landing to the northward, who appeared to fail in 1
very fa ft. 3, P, JVI. the two brigs met, the lit- anc '
ter fiied 3 guns at the former which bore down '
under the lee of the latter, with American co- *7?
Irturs—the other under Trent h colours. 1 hey ' n '
lay to a eonfiderable time, when the American
colours were hauled down, and the brig changed '" el
her course and tirade ali the Tail she rculd to the J""
northward, with the privateer, which gave , *
chaie to the Cleopatra, and was tomingjttp fall, 'f.
when the night coming on and blowing freih, °
fa W nomore of her. Ship Jnduftrv from Lon- }
don t» Norfolk was theninfight, bearing N. W. ,
L5t.3j.47, N. long. 37, 16, W. fpokefnip j.„
Maria, Patldock, 20 dayj out from Nantucket f avo
on a whaiing voyage. La'. 36, li, N. iong. j =m
65, 18. fpokebrtg Mary. Yorke, 36 daji out Cfrt
from Gibraltar to Philanlelphii—all well. 150
Lat. -36, 48, iong 31, 30, spoke brig Ran- 3
ger, out 3 dip from Baltimore to Amsterdam, drai
all well. ble
Ship Woodrrp Sims, Hodgfon of this port, 62CX
has arrivtd at Havre, inij days from Halifax, . O
Nova Scocia. and
Arrived at the Fort. in t}l
Schr. Kitty, Green, Cape Francois 13 days t ' K c
Maria, Flinn, Havannah 11 wl
New Tork OSober 26. LCI
ARRIVED. DAYS
I Brig Christine & Elizabeth, Sandmalker, -
Genoa 3 months.
Venus, ——, Bourdeaux 64 nifr^
Schr. Favourite, Weymouth, Richmond 12
that
• CHARLESTON, Oft. 12.
Nautical Improvement. fever
ihe substitution of Hadley's 03ant in the fuppl
room of that -very defective and dangerous Robc
instrument Davis's Quadrant, has been a
principal cause to which the improved con- f!"/ 1
dition of navigation is to be attributed.
The pofieflioti of the means of obtaining J acc
a correft obfervat.'on of the heavenly bodies Owe,
at sea, has led to the discovery of other ob- Keppi
je<Ss than that which formed the original
point of enquiry. John
Still the science, under all its present ad- B '(y
vantageous circumstances, is susceptible of !
additional improvements ; and every at- !
tempt, however trivial it may be, to give ' A
perspicuity, is entitled to praise. ° I '*■
Among the deflderata which have laid o- *
pen to enquiry, that of obtaining a correct Oc9
observation of the fun in foggy or hazy
weather, when the real horizon caanot he j.,
ascertained, has not been the least. The p o n»t
want of this has been always the most par- next^
ticnlarly felt when and where it was mod Oi!
prrticularly needtd. A mode has now "J
been fouu, dfimple indeed in its conflrud
icn, clear in its principle, a.id certain in in
-Var. efleAs, for this dilFcu 1 "- T -
'"ver.tor has ©buyned a patent for'Yhrs i:n
provemejit, wlncnj* nothing more than fix
in-an artsficraPaoriiwn °n the p! a .; ; ofai
Jiaairy s ÜBant, and readerieg the' nc-t. hr
moveable. J ° '
cket, _ Injiiftice to'thejnventor, I (hall only
this "on whst he o tiers to the public attention,
t. ::t WUhf : u |.e'Henurr i n an explanation of th-
it, Jest ; lU .;,eftcd men (honld
" a :-« take the advantage of prolnhtg by it, to the
injury of his p itent.
r a I|hf 1 | hf te ; :!ecis Mr- John Seyds, South
fA' w f. k ' w!, ° has published a colleflion of
V * ta olc S i-or- regnlatiug time, and corrcftinT
8. the latitude, computed from dead reckoi 1 :
' n s s » by hmple altitude, at any time in the
_y T forenoon, when tha fun j s not ] efs t ; lail
three points from the e«ft ; or any time in
L> the afternoon, when the fun is not less than
- three points from the weft, See. See.
3« vs.
9 ' ' °r Sc.^YhTmias^^
THE DA NISH BRIG
85 llm p ™« Frederick,
■ f, Francis Geolfi, Mailer.
, Ic W wilh a " "i-vcnicnt fpeid, having
15 V f u. fl V, tat cr p.„t Of fer cirgo r«dy to 00
12 o.iWl for PaYn,,% ;)0 | v y to t f le
k 6! c a :' c - Mn • "«• « Josspii o; vrs
£ _ oa. z*. 0
Fo rSAVA NVA H ~ "
( .0. THK SAILING SHIP
\Z mML Mvi;t
rcv&e I Patrick Gribbin, MaP.tr.
iccis v '-" ' NOw iyiiift « Smith's whr.rf,
- , • 'taillmJlrm, 'li haurffomc
ir for p.fcn,s«, and v i i f,i- with
f" fj.esd. For fru^t,r paftge.aup y
r»we ,he 'ii board, or »<,. „ - c, uath
Front-ftrect, or of the lubfcrifctrs,
•rgh A'. Cj/ y. Frazier.
M. dtf
• c - Jiift arrived.
From Port-au-Pri:ice, and For Sale b; the fubferi
; . L be ". No. 21, Penn.-ft.eet,
folk 6 *2 hog-fticadi,"^
£ > of Prime Coffee
Hft j 646 ba ? s 3 ,
»rj „ Wirings' C 3° Francis.
'ld, 1 §_
V,. Injurance Company of the State of
Pennsylvania.
7 "' ,„ T i l ' E °^ ce is a g ain opened at the corner of
, W alnui; and Second streets, where applications are
r tl- rccelve d as ufaal. to ;t _ Oil 28.
)' h lo be Sold at PubllTAuaionT
ttl- Oil Saturday evening, Nov. 4, ' 97> at 8 o'ciock,
at the Merchants' Coffee-houie,
T V A t ' CtS ~
t0 I Note drawn by James Greenleaf
,j, e in favour of and endorsed by Edward
Fox, dated >th August, 1706, due nth
"d Odoberlaft, V , ~0
by j 3 do. drawn by said James Green
id leaf in favor of and endorsed by Ed
ward Fox dated jth Ausuft, at
J 3i 1681 14, and 2681 14,' amount
z toget ,' ,cr 8041 41
ke 3do .do. of fame dace, drawn and
enderfed asaforefaid, payable in eight
months, paymenn, dols. 1693 75 each
k : amount together * goßl 4J
h, — Q j- '
I draft drswn by Robert Morris on '
JohnNicholfon,dated2?thMay, 1796
; a ' umont is JOO o
x do. drawn as aforefaid.at two
' y e3r ' 5000
I< o drawn by John Ni'dio!-
1, son, onßobert Morris, dated 28th
M*y, 1796, at 3 j<ars r OOO
is 1 do. drawn as aforefcid, at 4
/ J'"" 500 a)
« The said drafts are fecurcd by tbares J& ' CC * >
il in the North America Land Company
. and endorsed by James Greenleaf
„ ' r Note dated Boflon, j Sth May,
. 179 f, drawn by Thomas Dawes, iun!
in favor of Thomas Gieenleaf, paya
a blc lft jai.uary, 1798, endorsed by Da-
mel Greenleat, Henry Newman and
. J dmes Greenleaf ai
Xdo dated Bote, 18th Nov. 1005
drawn by Daniel Greenleaf, in favour*
' of Thomas Dawes, jun payab'eift Jan.
I *79B.enddrfed by 1 bonus Greenleaf,
Henry New'man.and James Gres'rltaf 6500
3 Note?, dated Boston, 17th Nov.
1795, drawn by Benjamin Haikell, in
fai-our of Jame? Greenleaf, payable ift
January, 1799, endorsed by said James
Cr.-erileaf and Nahum Fay, dols. ? coo
1500—1000 g ofto
3 do. dated Softon, r7th Nov. 179?
, drawn and endorsed as
ble ift fan. i?oo, one payment, dols.
6200, jooo, 4COO IJtoo
■ ® n !. bon , d ', Za s h «i»h Cox to James Greetileiir,
and affiled by h,m,'dated the Jill March, 170 c
in the sum of ten thonfaud dollats, conditioned for
the conveyance ot 25000 acres of Land, near the
town of Fredrrca in Glyn county and state of '
Georgia, the said bond full due. '
John Connelly, auctioneer.
0a.38.
Philadelphia, 03. 1 j.
I'HE fnbfcribers inform their and cufto- ;
i mersjn town ar.d country, tha' their (lores are now
open in the city, and others are daily opening, and
that from trte present appearance «f the prevailing
d.forder have reason to hope, their friends may .
jnortly .come to tha cky-witfe perfcA faf.ty. By
several late arrivals, numbers have received frefii
supplies of GOODS.
' Robert Smith & Co. P IV. GalhuJet &Co
na-vhtf Co. Sitgreanej & French, * ■
AetJ IS Smith, George Dobfon,
If Merger n:,d Smith, Tineas Ryerfon,
Alex Bt/JlanJ and Co. T. K. Hardenberg.
Jacob iprrry and Co. John Smith and Co-
Oiven 0 Jona.yonesy Thomas Orr,
Keppele & Zantxinger, William Gj
Adam Zantz -tiger, Tbomas Armat & Son
l 6hn Fri "' f Miller, jun. and C.
Be'jomin Ist J. jfohrjln; 5
OS. 14-
| ' Wanted., to Hire,
Al-arge and convenient HOUSE, in or near '
the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given ; to be ttken for a year, or on /
lease lor a longer term. Inquire of tha Printer
° a \f- ' «otf
Ihe Medical Ledures ~"
In the Unlterfity of Pennsylvania, are nosh
poned until the last Monday in November
next N
. r 4 . taw 4 w.
THE MAYOR'S OFFICE
II Ktpr, ma TBI PRKSCKT, AT THI
CITY HALL.To be Sold at Public Vendue,-
(If not before d'fpofed of at private sale) j
O>J F i liv, the li'lt of Dec-Tiber n?\t, a' fix
o'ci ;ck 'in Vnr evening, at the Merchants' Cof
fee House, in P.l:Tade!phia, Forty Tho'ifand Nine - J
niirwtird and Thirty Nine acres of LAND,
nr.M 01 I,e in the Cr uir y <>f Wifh;ng!on, and Com- j
inonwra'ih *>l Peiinfvlvania, and nn the waters of
F.eOi and Wlieeliv» Creeks and Ten Mile iLin.— thie
Th.'fe I.Tids arc ferli e and well timbered, anil were Olti.
pitrGteed early in Ij3), except 3700 acies ortheiea- trai
li?u;s, which were paten'ied in 179 a. One fourth Tin
of the pureiiafe money to be p»id at the time of la'e, flu
lot Ihe tefidue a crtdit of one, two and three mo'nths, J
will 1 e tiven, 011 interest and good (ccui ity.
Ofloh.-r K. . ,y w| S
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private file) 1
ON Fridav, the fr.i day of December, at fix
o'clock 111 the evening, at the Merchants' Cofi'ec
House. in Philadelphia, Twentv »ix Tflriufind Se
van Hu dred »id Eighty acres of LAND, in the
State ot New-Voik, between the northcwi bounds
of Pennsylvania and the ?u'quehanna, now, or laie,
in the towrilhipt of Hamden and Warren, and eoui
i? of Montgomery Oner fourth of the poichafe
money is 10 be paid at the tiitie of faie ! for the le
-11 Uie a credit of one, two, and three months will be
oiveo, on intereil and good security.
Otfofle si. '3swtS
Pealk's Museum.
THIS valuable repository of the works of Na
ture, To well calculated to dcKght the mind
and c.ri.irge the understanding, is opened daily, as ,
ufu?.l. It lands in aa airy and liealAy situation, \
and free from the epidemic that ar present affliils
tke city ; it niay, therefore, be frequented with
the v;rMtel fafe'y.
As an Airuf.mcnt, the study of Nature Is the
most rational and pleating : as a Science, the most j
fubU'.ne #0 J infiru&iv*. It elevates the mind and
expands the heart. They ry
» jyfo„ Katun'l viorit can cisrat, -with Gad bimfctf K N
" IUII cinver/e." boi
Many interring additions have lately been j O ,
made to this Mufcum : and the feathered tribe, ] at
containing a variety of the most rare and beautiful mi
iubjeifls, is now very advantageoully arranged, j ,
Waxen Figures, of Men large as life (some ol them g O ,
ca'.ts from nature) are here dressed in their proper ;
habits, and placed : jj attitude-. charaAeriilic of their ,
refpeilive nations. Here may he facn the North-
American Savage, and th« Savage of South-Ameri
ca a laboring Chinese, and the Chincfe Gentlc
rtian—the sooty African, and the Kamtfchadale —
with some Natives of the South Sea Iflauds. The 1
immcnD variety and interefong diversity which
this Mufcum offers to the view, may be seen but 1 |-
OBnnot be described with full effaA,
Price only i-4'h of a dollar. ( |
Just Received, r e
From Batavia( via Providence) co
a few Bonsof Spices, conClliitg of cd
Nutmegs, Cloves and wace ( »l o '
For sale by pti
KILLINGS £s* FRANCIS,
Penn-ftreet. Pi
May JO in
— Pi
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Street. p;
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING buCed for some time past in prcpara
tions tor removing into his profent house, has
been under thenecelhtyof poftponinguntil this day "
informing the gentlemen ofthe Bar genttally thro" 1'
the United States, that his spring importation of b <
law books is now arranged and ready lor laic, on n<
terms that he trusts will entitle him to the like pre
fceence he has experienced for fcveral years past.
Catalogues, combining tbe most varied collec
lion ever imported ldto this country, arc printed
and will be delivered on application. •
Tune n. 1
—— R
City Cotnmijfioners Office, p
June 21,1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the fcl«>3 a
and common eouncils, pasTed the aid day ef v
May last, appointing the city c«mmi(Boncrs,
and Drefcribing their duties, I'eAion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEKEUY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diftriils, |
•ach to be under tbe fuperintendance of one of (
the city commiflioners, » hois to be individually f
relponfible for the cleanliness of the fame, and t
are as follow. r
Driftrifl. No. 1. From the south fide of Ce- (
dar-ftreet, tn the north fide of Spruce-street, wi
rthe fuperistendence of Nathan Boys.
2. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
the north ftde of Walnut-street, under thefuper
intendence of Hugh Uoberts. >
3. From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide of High-ftrect, under tht fuperintendcnce of
Joseph Claypoole. . J
4. From the north fide of High-flreet, to the
north fide of Mulberry street, under the fuper
intendenceef William Moulder.
5. from the north fide of Mulherry-ftrett to
the north fide of Vine-flreet, tinder the super- '
intendence of Nicholas Hicks.
The cleaningof High-street to be in comrton. I
Aflated meeting of the city commission-
«rs is held at the Old Court House, in High- 1
street, every Tuesday evening at j o'clock,
July '4- eolm
Stands for Draymen, &c.
In purfuanot of an Ordinance from tbeSeleft and
Common Councils,bearing date tbe ltd day of
April, 1797, providing for the appointme.it of
City CommjjjionerJt, s3c. Se3. tbe 15th.
following places are fixed upon by the
JL said City Commifiicmers for Stands for
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-llreet, eastward of Front-ftreft, on
both fides.
Saflafras, High, Chefn.it and Walnut-fttreets,
rtftward of Front-street, on the no.-th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to
Third-street. _
Front-ftrcat, call fide from Vine.street to
Elfrith's alley-
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horle al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Water-street, weU fide from the north end of
St sniper's or stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Cc iar-ltreet, weft
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South flreets, east of Frost
street, south lide.
Dock-street, between Walnut-street and the
flag stone crossings, east fide, opposite Gtorge
° Second-street, between Safiifras and Vine
ftr Fifth-tireetf east fide from Chefnut to Mul-
SaffaVra's -ftre et, from Third'to Fourth-street,
No drav or horse to stand within ten fe«t of
FOR HACKNEV COACHES.
1 Pine-street, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
between Chefnut and Walnut
flr ßranoh-ftreet, north fide, between Third and
Fourth street.. fim
July 14-
A Literary Treat.
J/.fl publi/led, handsomely printed on writing
paper, price I dollar,
A new edition of that popular and entertaining
work, untitled
THE FORESTERS, an American Tale ; being
a frquel to the hitlory ot John Bull, the Clo
thier— In afcriesof letters to a triend, with the ad-
uiti'on of two letters, alluding to recent political
traniailions in America.
The following extract from the Clavis Allffgori'a,
Ihews the principal chars&ers that are introduced:
John Bull, the Kingdom of fngland
Hi- Mother, theClurchof England
His Wife, the Parliament I
His Sifter Peg, the Church of Scotland t (, e
His Brother Patrick. Ireland ft rc
Lewis, the Kingdom of Fringe
His Mistress, the Old Constitution _
His new Wife, the National fentation J
Lprd Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas Frog, the Dutch Republic
The Franks, the French Republic
The Fsrefters, the United states of America .-p
Robert Lumber, Ntiiv-Hamplhire
John Codline, Maffachufctts Q nl
Humphrey Plowlhaie, Conne&icut g ev
Roger Carrier, Rhode lfland ce ;,
Peter Bull Frog, New-York f ro ,
Julius C«far, Nevv-Jerfey . g
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
Caflimar, Delaware
Walter Pipewood, Virginia
His Grandson, George Wafhingto« T>
Peter Pitch, N»rth Carolina 1
Charles Indigo, Soutk Carolina Wi
George Tnifty, Georgia the
F.than Greenwood, Vermont plic
Hunter Longknife, Kentucky \
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves ccii
Rats, Speculators to I
Mother Carey's Chickens, Jacobins by
This popular and entertaining satirical hiflo- £
ry of America is attributed to the Rev. Dr. Bel- the
knat. It has a gr«at (hare of originality and a- mo
bonnds with genuine humour. It is continued .<
down to the present time, and chora&crifes those g U i
late political transactions whick have caused so j,
much in America. « Cr,
Sold ky H. and P. RICE, BooWeller, No. i 6, 1
8ou(h Second Street, and No. 50, Marko* ftjeet.
June 16. 5 an<
LAW BOOKS, ne ;
Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Book/ellers, _
' No. 16, South Second, snd No. 50, Market street, J <
HAVE jufl received by the lite arriva's Irom
London and Dublin, their fpriag importa-
I tion, consisting of a variety of the lattft and most
approved Law Books, which, adefed to those alrea- O
dy on hand, forms the moftextenfive colle&ioncv- kj
er offered for sale in this country. Thejr theiefore Hi
beg leave to notion, that from the nature of their 011
connexions in Dublin, they are enabled to fell irish fe<
, editions (as they have hitherto at the very p r
■lowest prices. The following arc among tht latest nIJ
publications.
Vefey, Juu'rs Reports in Chancery, 1 i«..s.
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in the time «f Lord Hardwicke ; Kloyer's Pro&ers
PratSicc in the Ecclesiastical Courts ; Barton's ™
Treatifc on a Suit in Eqnioy ; Tidd's PraiStiee of nt
the Bourt of King*s Bench in Personal Anions,! ty
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise w
on Uses ; ruodsrn Reports, l» vols. London edi- so
tion. 1
H. and P. Ric* fcipeft t» reeeive by the firft ar- 0 !
rival from N«w-Y«rk the 6th vol. .complete of (j
Durnford and Eall's Reports, the idfpart of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of p,
new publications. fc
June »6. p,
The History of Pennsylvania, -
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and will be publilhed,
wkh all convenient expedition, by ZfcCHA
' riah Poulson, jun. Ho. go, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions wilt continue a '
{o be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed proposals, until the
f work is ready for the fubfcriberi. j.
July 18. "wtf
The Partnership, c
UNDER the firm of FREEM AN 13* Company, *
is dissolved by mutual consent. All persons
having any demands against tkefaid House are de-
J fired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and ~
those indebted to the House are desired to make pay- (
ment to him—By whom business will in future be
tarried on,at hii Store, No. 39, South Front-street.
* Augujl 7 cod4W
0 Richard and James Potter
HAVF. removed their Counting House to Ne.
4j, South Fifth-ftrcet.
h August t- w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijburgh Carii/le,
e Shtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
o
■- '-f-'HE public are requcfted to take notice, that
JL the partnership which b«s fsr some «ipi» fub
1. filled between Mathias Slough of Lancaftcr, and
I. William Geer, is now dissolved; but, not as M.
1. Slaugh infinaatesto the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
jctf from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the tjth
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman who wiihes to be
, more circunftantially informed of the merits of
this business, by applying to W. Geer may have
°f the perusal »f M. Slough's letter, and then can b«
"J at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfe&ly juftifiable in attaching him
lle felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
or s tJ g e copveyanc: from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place,
en Now from tbe liberal and generous support the
public were pleafcd to confer on the firft effort in
ts, this business, William Geer, in conjunction with
ly. Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determ.r.ed
to to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
to lie ean possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
,1. with carriages, horfc-s, and every appurtenance to
render the paflage £afe and commodioHs, inform
Q f those wno wilh to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
{v George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Mond»y
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaftet, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenlburg. The fare as hitherto
Bst established.
For the further accommodation ot the public,
tllf a Stage will dart every Wednesday from the house
r S e of Samuel Blder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
ine an( j return from thence and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that passengers destined for
lul- Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed 00 Mon
da vs.
:et, WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 27> '797-
of N. B. This Line ef Stages llarts from the
house of William Ferrac, in Lancaster, on every
i'uefday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
fth cecding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wedncf
nut day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippcnlburg, and returns
md from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame rbutin« daily at in its tour from Phi.adel
! phia. . mwf
Will be Landed, j
Prora on board the fcip Aaive, Capt.Blair,from Aad
Hambuxgh,
20,haks white Ruflii clcanllemp
a talks Clover Seed Uu
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer, » T
North Fifth ftr--et, No. 34.
Tune a 6. In 1
YoungTiyfon i'ca. Latc
40 chells of a superior quality— Ml'o,
ioodp-of H*ion, T
Imposed- in the iVoodrop Sitns, and tor iale by of t.
the fubferiber, corner of Second and l'ine Uni
street. P 5 "" 1 ;
C-Haifht. 5"
June <r. eotf Mot
insurance Company of the State
of Pennsylvania. milt
''pHF. Office will be kept until further notice at ,ha t
L the School House in Germantown. The was
Company still retain the room in Chefnut, above °'
Seventh street, where a person will attend to re- C
ceive and give answers to applications, every day w
from to until I o'clock- CASI
• Sept 15. ' A
' Thomas Armat and Son,
OF PHILADELPHIA,
INFORM their cuflomers agd the public, they .
have removed a part of their merchandize to
Wilmington : Also, theyhr.ve their store open in ty fc
the city, /t either place tKeir" friends can be sup- Stat
plied, and their orders carefully attended to. trji'
By the Cumberland, from Hull, they have re- the
ceived a handforae afl«rtment of articles, suitable wor
to the approaching season ; and expedl to add to it "
by other fall ships. " i>
Should the sickness"prevail in the eerttral part of " e
the city, that branch of their bulincfs will be re- " o
uioved to Germantown. " S
The communication by post is open and r»- " V
gular as til'ual. 1
Sept. jg. thtf Uc:
TO BE SOLD VERT CHEAP 7
A Light W A GGON almost new, with a frame— eto|
arid a pajr of harness (EngliOi collars) has never t j ot
been used—price jo Dofls.
A Horfc 16 hands high, seven years «ld—and a
new chair, with a falling top and harness— 3»o. .
Enquire No. 331, Market-llreet
Auguill4. iiw TI
For sale or to be let on ground
rent, p
A.,*valuable Lot of Ground ; L.
S ITU ATE on the north-eift corner of Wal- e * r
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State- frie
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front j 1,10
on Waluot streets and one hundred and thirteen a l'l
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at ncl
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number ®f small tenements thereon. _ e
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
between Mulberry and Saffafras
streets, containiug in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing tbat breadth east- r-i
ward nineiy-five feet, then widening to the J
south thirteen feet fix inches. Theft houses Sj a
avc the convenience ot a public alley adjoining tj (
oil the north fide, and are a very desirable fitua- c ,
tion for a merchant, flour faflor,or others who f o i
may h*ve occufion for storage of goods. This dr
property will be fold on very reafonablc terms
forcafh. For further information apply to the in
printer. *'
July mßcvrtf
And pojfeffion given immediately ,
A LARGE cwo story brick House, handsomely 3
fituatcd in Princeton. There are four rooms u ,
' and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings 51 feet in
| length, and a piazza of 57 There is a pump
in the yard, an exce.lleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
. stables, which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two stables for I? horses. The heal
thiness and pleasantness ol its situation, and t
' number as genteel and agreeable families 111 ard
5 near the town, render it a desirable retreeat for a J
, gentleman from the city. The commodioufnefs of
the house, its central pofitton, and the largeness of
the stables, make it';evcry way suitable for a tavern ,for
C which it has always been confiderd is a capitXl
stand. Inquire on the premises, of .
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. IJ. 19 —divrnwtf £
City of Waftiington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwellitig-boufe ao,ooo dollars,
at & calh 30,000, ire jo,ooc>
b- 1 ditto 15,000 & calk 15,00® 4o,oo»
id I ditto 15,000 Sc calh 15,000 30,000
A. 1 ditto 10,000 St. cafb 10,000 10,000
e; 1 ditto 5,000 4c calh 5,000 10,000
b- 1 ditto 5,000 Sc calh 5,000 io,doo
1 calh prize of to,ooo
a do. 5,000 each,are • 10,000
, ie do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
01 10 do. 500 * ' ,o '°°"
" 00 do. too - - 'O,OOO
J 100 do. 50 - * I0 ' OPO
Z: 400 do. »5 • • !e ' oo °
he 1,000 do. »o * 10,000
nf. «s<ooo do. 10 - I}»,ooo
he 16,739 Prizes,
in 33,161 Blanks,
ith ——
xd 50,000 Tickets, at Eight dollars, 400,00*
at- ,
lb- N. B. Tofavour those whe may take a quan
tity ol Tickets,the prize of 40,000 doNara will be
led the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
to but one : , ,
rm And approved notes, fecu»ing payment in either
the money or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
at be received for any number not lefsthan 30 t»ck
rfe, et». . r
tfcy This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen ol
irg, the private buildings to be ertSed in the City of
:rto Wofbingron—Two beautiful defigos are already
leleAed for the entire fronts on two of the publit
"lie, fquarea; froenthefe drawings it is proposed to ereel
lule two centffcand'ourcorner buildings.as soon as pof
un- Able after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
lay, when cotuplete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
urg the manner deferibed in the scheme for the Hotel
for Lottery. A nett deduAion of five per cent, will
on- he made to defray the necellary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National University, to
be eiedled within the city of Wafliiugtoo.
the The real fecurittesgiven for the paymaot of the
rery Brizes, are held by the President and two Direfl-
Jro- ors of the Bart* of Columbia, and are valued at
I of more than half the amount ol the lottery.
ncf . SAMUEL BLODGE'I.
Pa- .§„ Tiekatsmay be had at the Bank ol Col»m
---arns l«a ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Fcter
the Oilman, Boston ; of John H.pkins, Richmond ;
del- sand of Richard Wei*. Cooper s Ferry.
,c mwf
This Day Published, Tl
Aad to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, aoracr of f
Second and Chefnut streets, |-^j
Price yS&thsjof a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents At/, on
Contained in No. V and VI of nace,
u The History of the United States fpr ertou,
the year r 79 6,"
In whicn the en argr or speculation agamtt 1 ,
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, f?~';
Late Secretary of the Treasury, is FULLY i o j e
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF. va ns\
This publication prefihits a ccncilc statement miles,
of the hafe means pra-ftifed by the Jacobins of the Plain
United States to asperse the chara&ers of thof« vellet
pyrfons who are confideretl as hostile to their difor- pravi
ganizing fcHemes. It also contains the cor- ringti
refpondence between Mr. Hamilton and MelTrs. /antic
Monroe, MuMcnburgh and on the sub- place
je& of the documents alorefaid, and, a i'cric? of let- ititb
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Ha- tified,
milton, proving beyond the pollibility of a doubt, a.-tdj
that the connection between him arid Reynolds, | from
was the result of a daring eonfpiracy on the part day.
of the latter and his alTociates to extort money. Waa
A discount of one third from the retail price Mn d
will be made in favor ot wholefaie purchasers, for aforrj
cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr. Yowng. ancrj
No. 188. Z"
ton,
D'lflr'iS of Pennsylvania, to wit • j numt
. r)E if REMEMBERED, that on the mill,
( L> '■) Jj twenty Gxtto day of July, in thetwen- aret
ty second year of the independence of the United an J
States of America, John Fenno, of the said dif- tin
trjil.hath depolitcd in thisoflice the title of a book, -will
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the and
words I'oUowing, to wit «/ir<
" Observations on certain documents contained 14 I
" in No. V. and VI. of "The History of the Unit- pert.
" ed States for the year 1796," in which the charge faif,
" of speculation, again!} Alexander Hamilton, late agrc
" Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted— 1
" Written by himfelf."
In conformity to the aft of the Congress of the 1
Ucited States, entituled, " An a<s for the encour
agement of learning, by fecHring the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors ant? propri- T
etors of such copies, during he times therein men- '
tioned." P^i
SAMUEL CALDWELL, d *y
CUrk zf the DiJlriSt Penn/yhania.
*7' the
The Inhabitants of the Diftri£t asa
of Southwark, No ,
ARF. informed that a Coachee is provided, to he I {vc
kept at the Constables' office, the north east Sti
eerner of Front and Almond streets, where the
friends of those sick pcrfons who desire to be re- Hil
| moved to the City Hospital, are rcquefted to make r ; v ,
1 application—Also, a Hearse will be kept in readi- da)
nel's for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENROSE. anc
N. B.— The Poor, who wish to remove to the bet
Tents on Schuylkill, may be fnrni<W with orders
hy applying as above. dug. -9 wt
William Blackburn, Ua
LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE wj
No. 64 south Second-f.reet. ' l
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, wfcieh _
commenced drawing the 19th May, FOR.
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion as the drawing advances, particularly on ar- 1 ©I
count of the five firft drawn tickets, prizes of 1
four thousand dollars each, on the hft day of I
I drawing.
i Check Books kept for examination and register
: ing, in the Canal, No.l.City of Wafliington.No. ft'
», and Paterfon Lottwies. 1,1
Also* tickets forfalein the Schuylkill bridge and j
Perklomen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the course «f the fummcr. J
The business of a Broker in aH kinds of Slock,
' Bills, Notes, Lands, Ac- kc. tranfa&ed with the T
5 utmost attention. '
1 June a ■*.) - *
p Erfkine's View of the War. j h "
c ■ I ai
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No- 40 South SecomTftreet,
j [Price 31 Cents]'
a A View of the Causes and Confequen- h
'[ ces of the present War with France, y
„ By the Honorable Thoma* E*skine. J
xi t
STATE TRIALS. -
Sold b W. Young, Bookseller, No. J», South Sc- I '
- cond-ftrect,
The Pennsylvania State Trials, I
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acquit- I
al of FraneisHopkinfon, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one Urge 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Yodno has for sale, a general allortment ol
rs, Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
-00 ege, well aflorted, and entitled to-the drawrttack if I
Oc axparted.
00 For Sale,
mo That tvtllknown plate, called /' ANDSGRifT s J
ioo F f r a Y,
ioo N Nefliaminy cre»k, 18 miles from Phila
-100 V-' ladeiphi'a, on the New \ork poll road,
IOG containing 74 acres 94P el ;i;hes. Upon the
premises are a large two ttory ft(?ne hoyfe occu
l<>o pied as a tvern, jnd a good one story llone kit
>oll clheri, a large frame liable with a good thfefliing 1
,' OO floor, and l'ome out buildings—also a well of
100 S° od water > and ln £ * ccllent ice House * o°
,00 this place is a moll elegant situation fori gentle-1
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefharo
iny to its jun&ion wiih the Delaware, and thence I
across to the Jersey ftiore. h has the privilege
of one half the tollrecelved from the bridge.
no# For terms apply to the SnWcriber,
MORDECAI lewis.
• an- Vay 14. ; 3 l awtf '
1 be COLUMBIA HOUSii
A " Boarding School for young Ladies.
ther IT RS. GROOMBRIDGE with m»ch pleaf
will JVI ure and refpefl, returns her .sincere ac
tck- knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years refidense m
no f Philadelphia ; and aflures her friends and the I
y of public, so far from intending to decline her
:ady school, (he has made a fupenor arrangement for
'blic t j-, e more convenient accommodation of her
:rea scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
pof ' education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
lem ' Groombridge and master. excelling in their
in , refpeifliveprofeflions.
Io " Corner of Sprute and Eleventh Streets.
"n't Jime sth, 1797-
n '" f The situation is perfectly healtky ; andmade
, ,0 more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
1 of ground adjoining the houle.
jHft Published,
'dat" And to be had of Messrs. Dofefon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the oilier pricipal Bookseller, ,u the
city price one dollar twinty-five cents, in boards,
turn- New Views of the Origin of the
ct " Tribes and Nations of America.
nd ; By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, ».v.
»f Jfc *°-
r
The Philadelphia, Atjion, r. nl J ir.ktrton
, MAIL STAGE.
rHF. proprietors beg leave to inform the public y thai
tbey have efiublijbed a Stage between Philadelphia,
Atfion, Bat(lo, Hampton, Speedwell, and Martha Fur
nace , JVading River fitting mill, and the town of Tuck
in New-Jerfcy, to go once a week, and are provi
ded n ith good horses, a comfortable carriage, ««/ a cotv
yi// driver, the conveyance of the mail, passengers,
goods. The Siage will flart every Thursday, at IO i
o'clocky A. As. from Mr. Daniel Cooper s Ferry, amf
lodge that night at Joel Bodine't* at LongaCom'tng ; and
on on Friday. 6 * clock> P. M. arrive at Caleb E
vans's, inheeper, in Tuckerton, difiant from the city 54
miles, (from the Atlantic 6, andfromthe Eajl Grwjing
Plains 7 miles J where are good accommodations for tra
vellers, and where are commodious andfafe passage boats
provided to convey paffergers to Capt. William IVar
ringtofi's houfe t on Tucker s Jfland, adjqin itiing the At
lantic, where are good accommodations, and a convenient
place to bathe ; the sportsman who wifbes to r.Cgale himfelf
with fowling and fjhing, way a/ A&w highly gra
tified y there bring at almofl every fcafsn of the year fowl
r.:tdfijh in abundance.—The Stage on its return, Jlarts
from the aforefaid C. Evans's in Tucierton, every Tuef- .
day. at 6 o'clock, A. M. breaLfajls at John Bodine' s,
IVadtng River Bridge, /edjg? that night at Longacoming,
and at I o'clock, P. M. on Wednesday, arrive at the
jforefaid Cooper's Ferry. It is presumed that no route of
an equal diflance will be Irfs eXpenfrve, or furntjb the tra
veller with a greater variety of amusement, as he wilt
not only have apleafant fail to the atlant.c from Tuck it•*
ton y but have the euriofrty of feeing on the road thither d
number of capital furnaces and forges, and one flitting
mill, in complete order, and at tverk ; gentlemen, too, wb*
are ownrrs, or fiflcrs, of any of the afbrefaid iron works,
are solicited to encourage and support this sage (by wh:cb
they can be so we'l accommoia 'ed) the continuance of which
will much depend on their a id. The rates of pajjengers
and baggage are as follows : For a pajjenger from the
aforefaid Daniel Cooper's Ferry to Tucierton y including
114 lb. of baggage. Two Dollars ; for way paff&ngtps
per mile, Four Cents—lso lb. <sf baggage equdlto apof
fender. Poflage of letters, newspapers, ttfc. will be
agreeably to law.
iV. B. The mail croffesfrom the Old Ferry.
THOMAS IVARDLE & Co.
Tuckerton, Sept. 18. Off. 5. —lawtf
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern, f
at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every Tun/Jay, Tburfday, and Satur
day , at 3 o'clock, iathe n-orning ; arrives at Do
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the passengers find
a fafo and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Narfolk for Northampton ferryf
I every Tuefdiy, Thursday and Saturday, and the
Stage start* from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Mem Jay, Wednesday. and Friday ;puts up at Snow
Hill the firft night, at Dover the id night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
The distance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles less than on any stage route
: I between those places.
* Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
paflenger, who, after having performed this route,
T I will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
, I distance, so good a road in America.
b I Anguft 11. drm.cotf.
M Window Glass,
■- ] ©f Superior Quality, and cheaper than any othtr ia
it I the City—
>l OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From Bby 6toig by 14,
r<- By the single Box or Quantity, may be had at the
0. I ftote of the Subscribers, corner of Arch and Fro»t
ftreet.
4 James C. & SamuelW. Fijher.
in Philadelphia, June 9, '
k, I 30 Dollars Reward.
Ie T> AN away on Saturday last, two indented t«r
-JLV vant», oifferd Dally, a mulatto boy'about iy
! years of age, a Aim Mgb? bjiilt a&ive fellow, ca*
j read.atid write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
I ha# a heavy countenance ; had on a fuftian eoatce
I and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine shoes &c.
Allan Heltons, a black man, about 24 years of
age, five feet (Wen or eight inches high,a thick fct
j clunfy built falUw, particularly about the breech;
had on a faiior'a blue jacktt lined with fwanlkin,
dark striped vest, fuftian trowfers, high crowned
■2- hat, coarse fhoei, &c.; each of them had several
g, j ftiirts and several other eloathes with them. Thir
" 1 ty Dollars will be paid for the runaways, or 13 dol
j lars for each, and reafoniblc charges,on delivering
I them at No. 54, North Third-street.
I The black fellow is abont a year from Lewii
Town, in the County of Suflex, state ef Dela
-5- I ware, and has taken the boy with him.
July 31. mtu&*3w
"T9 be SOLD or RENTED,
'it- I \ LARGE 3 Story Brick House, on the
tor |ai- South fide of Filbert street, between
cn ~ Eighth and Ninth, lately occupied at the Sur
s>3 veyor General's Office.
The Building is 36 feet front and 3J feet clWp,
the lot 1 to feerdetp.Vvith the privilege of a ni*
»,f feet wide Alley extending the whole length of
1 the lot, to a thirty f«et vide Court for Carriages
to trim in. The House is not plastered, and
I may be turned either into one, m two
f ' s Hotifes. It is suitable for a large ManufaiSlorys
jor would make a good Tavern. Immediate
;r,_ pofieffion will be given,
iic j" Apply to Ito. in, Chefnut-Stncer.
,he Awy.ai. cod4t
:cu- Musical lnjirument Mapufaftory,
No, 167, Arch-Street.
Iln ? TTARPER,harpfichord,gra»d,portable grand,
1 of , ..board, piei table and square piaro forte
On ma ktrfrom London, returns thanks to his friends
itlt- an d the public, for their liberal encourageme»t,
ara " and hopes that by his assiduity and attention to ev
ince ery branch of his business, to merit a continuance
lege of their favors. Piano fortes made on the newest
c. and most approved plans, with pedals, pater.%
fwcll, and French harp stop, which he fiatteii
himfelf will uc found en trial by unprejudiced
■f. judges, tQ be equal if not fuperiorto any import-.
ed, and twenty per cent cheaper. Any inftr*
m«nt purchased of him, if not approved of
ICS. twelve months, he will exchange.
] ea f_ N.B. All kinds of Musical instruments made,
ac " uned, and repaired with the grcateft accuracy,
neßt dispatch, and 011 the raeft reasonable terms,
•_ ready money only.
Second hand Piano Fortes taken 111 exchange..
May
t for Forty Dollars Regard.
h" T) AN away from the fubferiber oil the ft*'
olite IV ond day of this inlt. July, a,i«lulatto Man,
Mri - named Will Bowzer, about forty yeara of
their fivc fec| f evt . n or e igl»t inches high, rather
chunky made ; had 00 when he went away, a
"• drab colored cloth coat/striped purple trowfers
frf and jacket. It is probable he will change hi«
rn:lde cloathes, as he took a number with him. The
,d lot said fellow formerly belonged to Mr. Charlet
Blake of this place ; and it is expeiled he bas
made towards Jones's Nerk, in the Delaware
State. —Any person apprehending the fcid fel
low, and securing him so that I can get him a
" gain, (hall receive the above rewar.l if taken
3 , «ut of the county, a ß d Twenty Dollars if in
the the county, and all re«fonable charges if bro't
JESSE REED,
>6t %i!e» Ami's Covstf, Maryland-