©Sjette .J *. Wltfttt i>tatrs, & Philadelphia Daily
SATURDAt EVESIXG, FEBRUART 25, «797- ' 5
13940 ~T 7T: Wafhimrton Cans! Lottery,
For Charleston and Savannah, Fresh. Ga
the « caooN,R
mSST Oliver Jenkins, Master,
takf frtight «n moderate terms, and be ready W3 GOL
ake in in a few days. Apply to Co
JOSF.fH AN THONY & Co- - J
KorCHA-. lLjt, ' GARDE '
a. jjBP tai D*»ish »*IG
Friendship, Knd
Lweniz Matpen, Master, Twenty Jive
A strong, new vessel, with a Mediterranean Pafs,»ur- s;s *-
then about 240 tons. For terms apply to Eleven
*£Z.rj in— 5 PHILIPS. CRAMOSD & Co. Twenty^
~ MRS. G R A T T A N. 3"
Refoeafully informs her fnends, and#ue public in fhree
general, \hat on Tnefday the , thdayof January, Five
she proposes opening, at No. 39. North Sixth- K«
A Linen and Muslin Warehouse. i
Book Vluflins, from 6/3 to lif 11 per yard Bain
Jaconet ditto, from 8/8 to 9/8 per yard
Striped ditto, from 7/10 to lofto per yard
TimhourVl Book Mnflins, from 13/9 to Ytfper yard with
India Muslin, from n/3 to 15/ per yard t L
Shectintr Muflm c Being th
Taconet muslin Handkerchiefs, frem 4/3 to 6j per hi. j he abosc
Beo). muslin Handkerchiefs ftom 5/3 to tc/6 per hdkf.
Muslin color'd and border'd Handkerchiels Printed ca
Dacca Handkerchiefs Pec.
Tambour'd Crayats from Ic/8 to lyil
Pocket Handkerchiefs
Cambric, from 11/j to 16/3 per yard On ~,
Table Cloths ,V,n W
Huckaback Towelling th , „
Women's Cotton Hose, from 6j% to iy per P «j-w-E»«l
Dimity from sfloJD 6/ii _ —
Men's Silk Hose - r,/t Belfßofto
T*mbout*d muslin Handkerchiefs from * »ST» H ,;,(« Sa
"trifh linens for Gentleiren s Skirts, from jS V> 9, 7 R u ffij s»i!
And a variety .of other articles. f . .« Ravens Di
N. B. Orders received for aU kinds of ready m A(fwFe
Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Crava.s, ooeMl .
Pocket Handkerchiefs, dec. &c. One 9
Houihold Linen, &c &c. Speimaea
A p sin shirt, made and mark'd, 3 I-» doUars. Mould an
A f' U raffled dittp, 4 dollars. A few ba
A plain ihirt, made ai'd mark'd, 5 dollars.
A full ruffled itto 6 dollars- -
A plain ihirt, made afidmarkad, i I-a dollars.
A full ruffled ditto 7 dollars.
A plain shirt, made and mark'J, o dollars. Jnftre
A full ruffled ditto 7 J-l- ~ Stocking
A plain Ihirt, made and mark d. 6 l-l do.lart. thc .. cft <
A very fine ruffled ditto 8 doiiars. Febru
Linen included.
Lifoon Wine.
50 Pipes of Lilben Wine, landing at Messrs. Sum- ta
mer! & Brown's wh»rf, betwem Arch and RaceftreeU, proven ,
from :hip Ne-.-une, Capt. Jeffries, frnm L.scon. m ed m „
Fi p.s, and p C^ R f °^f G b H y T . *£%
FebruarV 18. iIZ ' cr v ',r
!-' A. %1 tiijTof a^ybe
FIHST &ad proof, and ur
Gin, of 4th preof, in pipe* healrh
Janiat- a Spirits, 4th proof, in Hhds 159 01.
01- ! Hock, iij cases of 40 dozen each pajrr,.
GUfs 5 -nblers, in pints au-' half pmt. might
Window Glass, in boxes, of different lizss ble nt
in fecks L
Whiting
Copperas ( ; n By P
W!:; r eLead T Se<
ic Spanilh li. own J PlinHT (, ' c
j*or Sale by PETER ELlGri 1-
January 4 —■ — il
Concert.
On SA IVRDAr iW-VWG, tU IJib InJUxt, itree
AT OELLER'S ROOM. je^t
SIGNOR. TRISOBIO, frwm if vttalin/u, o'ile
j cmc-'rt of »'«- '** —J* >' | iold
L I**:;, v.,/-"- w. vbi* <wVim*nififSU t, «?+- and
, . bis fihhn, """(T tKHM
'V?*:
f } - V». 3, Sr.* fmt-pot • -»■- IV-ilit'
%X.k K, »ar*-/r,n . «r- T
I lrcl film, Irrfuof, I
„V». 66,XcrlhFr- t-?rcei. .
7t« Cincrrt mtli:omm.nc:vtO'*- :k - , ; g
feiru-irylß. '
j anies Broy^n,
yfi A'o. I (g SetvJJlreth ,
HAS pftreceived per the brig PejCT, «pt.
from Ar.ilcrdam, a small invoice rfDOTCH'
G O O D S conflflißg of
Tifkieu'-urgs
Flaxen linn Ozr.Jburgs
Coffee-Mill', N* a to 4
Str%w knives
Scythes 10 hands long—and
Glass tnmblprs assorted
Which he will f«l on go.d terms by tJi<s package. _
\Kc 011 hand,
A few Quarter-cases Malaga WINE, and
5 co Gallons Spirits Turpentine. >-
Feb' uary »3 _J_
Mr. Pickering's Letter.
This Day Publiflied, p ,
AND FOR SALE BT THE EDITOR, p
Price three eights of a Dollar.
TMi» Letter of the Secretary «f State, to Mr. Pinck
ncv SUr.ifter Plenipotentiary of the United States, to
the French Republic. February 9 .
WA NTS A PLACE.
* Woman who can be well rtcommeeded for honefly. so-
A btietv, and temper. She w ; &es a. cham
bermaid. or for low wages 00 coud.t.on fee may
3 voung c lid with her. Enquire at Ho. 4 8 Soum 1
?.ont (l:«u IdK»aryi« d |
Frejh Garden, Grass pud Flowerbeds, A
Roots, lie-
This day landing from the (hip '-a? 1 - , captain Fo. * HQPSI
from London. V pleifjc
And FOR S -VLE of street, ot tha
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Fccord-ttreets, (jeep ; the L
A mtfl capital aad •xten/ivr rt~rnt e f j itd aaove tS
CARDEM. GRASS a-xl j ij.gta the So
ROOTS, BtC. fee. 1 Pa^snaaa
Amo-.i* which irt, "j . '• "-.'SL*' *
Five Uads WM« CreSrs | r,-.,
VZ Borecole. 1 i • -'We °
_ c P : r;.ir -.eo Radtih } Ctifctc on
■- JZ a * T & t SS Turnip Twelfth ftr<
t> r Peas] or for the w
kTe ' r CabW-isU Savoy) their value:
];r nty Carrot Four Parsnip For furth,
in rhree Cauliflower Twenty-three Me-c:-. Hou.e of t
i" Five V ' Celery Twenty-one Lettuce I nor ß u, ? , fr
T " Commonand lemon Thvme
I - Curled leaf and (prigged PaHley j Pgnnfv
Pot Marvgold Pot TO TIC!
Balm Thyme - Mangel WurtzeJ W°™
Leek Ka.il Shallots , a »? ' v
Rape Seed Rye Graf, Saint Foin L«eern« 1 ™
Red and white Cloyer Timothy, kc. kc. phUade phi
With a curiocs foUed'ion Q f the etteemeu P
flower-seeds and ROOTS, I
Being the most extensive ever imported into thisfity, J . q .
:f * The above are from a capital Seed'man ta Lond»n, and j or
tf. a re warranted frefh and goad.
Printed catalogues may be had'by applying as aboye. I Fe fc t
Dec. 17 * jT"
Bourdeaux Brandy, in Pipes, 1
OLO Claret, in cases
Ditto in cases, ot an excellent quality I r)Y
Lift-on Wine io pipes i K „
F«nhVoof HoUandGip 1 ,1-^7
N»W-sibnd Mm- in hogihda<U»ad iiftce. o Wdlia,
ajr-
br!* Bortor. net ! »n« Fa.k rfg °
Hilifax Salmon in batrcls j
Ruflia Ssil Duck j "►"" u ? s '
lldt > Ravens Duck so, a tun,
; A lew Feather Bcdi Soves ho
,1S One 11 l-a inch Cable ) , JO t u hom» louj each ana aouj
One goo» > ecuticn 2
Speimacati Caudles and Mil 1
Mould and dipt Tallo%v ditto
A few barrels Tanners Oil, and FeVrus
A small invoice of India Goods,
For Sale by
JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co
Tuft received from Marfcilic;, afmall invoife of Silks, Sils
Stocking!, an aIT iiiment of Perfumery, a.id a few ca.cs ot
the bcflToiive Oil. {
February 15 j. _ , ~ -f gn
• For Sale,
A TRACT O F L AN D, Ftbr
CON:ainir.g 310 acres, in Harford county, 5 miles d,l-
taut from Belle-Air, » 7 from Baltimore : the im
treet., prov e Tl .eats are, a two-story brick dwe'lmg-hotxe, fimth
»n- 'n ;d in a gint eel manner, with stone kitchen tad cellar ;
y i barn, and other convenient Out building 1 , t a t»Ki- It'
IT. MILL, lately built, in a good stand far country or mer- Tiirc
chant work apple-«rchard and other fruit-uees ; 3° a- 0 f y, 0
crcs of prirnt timotuy meadow ; and ncar'i .as mudj mor- jyrf
be made from th« conveniency of watering ;d > acres L .v.ni,
' ot woo,t]and, wel|timbered. The fields are s. .. : ' cea^ey.
and under g*'od 1 ilee - -■>« fituatim • ■ very pU-.'.!»nj£ . i
healthy. Ihe whols of this property mtty be !uct i^o ;
U»ol. Two thirds in hand,'acd tl,e remainder in ea.) B>.
payments, »2501. rfould be taken, ail caih. r:.ne.. oi PUi
befliad in 60 days after contraS, and an J t b
jzes ble%itle given by ROlktRT A.
February 20 |
TO BE SOLD
By Public Vendue at the Merchants-' Coffee-Hou'.e m .ij
"Second-ftrcet, on Saturday the 25th ini:ant, at 7
•jjt o'clock in the evening, , .
'1" a WELL foifted three story brick house, three
5 l\ ftorv brick kitchen, and lqt of ground, ittuate
on the east fide q* Fourth-flreet,neir biiii .as or . e- |
street, No. 47, n.irth : cantaitiing in bteadtn on Fourtli
f«', Itreet about 17 feet, and in depth feet. Suh
■ jeil to } yearly ground rent of 71. and clear ol every
xalrnvfic, . other incumbrance. It is njw let at per annum ; m
! muji* in 1 (ol ,1 as tne pit ate, and by the Executors of the last wi.l I
fta apmb- and tetlamenl ol Wj'liam deceaf~d. 1 j
bapfy ■" terms of payment wifl be made easy, an rl . the condi- | g
rmbij ilf £ ; OUS publiiheti at the time and place of sale, by I .
a»JM r - WILLIAM SHANNON, Atjfttoneer I ■
4.-«W Feliruaty 2* m
bin J &l r • I A a
Zu'sZ Mahogany and Logwood.
n at: is a* \ Cargo for Sale on board of the Ihip Sally, captain I
; and as- Gflflon, s u(l arrived from Honduras.
dllbtfi'x' Apply to , I E
vJextffd PHILIPS, GRJMOOp & Co. j cleg
February 9 _ j 1
«? notice: " U j
I„/library, "T""HE Sales of LANDS of the United States, in the
r. TnfiiU, 1 North-Western rerritory, heretofore adverttfed I
in the publit pipers, will commence this even- J b
ine, at the Citv Tavern—to be continued from day Ma
* 7»- to day, 'till the tenth of MARCH next, if not sooner Te
Wd.' P
-|3nuarT 4 Co
* JUST Aii Rl FED, j, u
„ , By the Danish Ihip
C H .Oporto, VV
Red Port Wine, |
In Pipes, Hogiheads an« Quarter-Cases,
450 Boxes of Lemons,
|Fc.r by |
Philips, Cramond iff Co. j
ickage. FAcoary 9 1_
1 Notice-
THE ELEPHANT will leave town poGtively ear- I
'.y in March.
Admittance—one quarter of a.dollar.
ter. Children—half price. j dl
N. B. An ELEPHANT TOOTH weigmng 54 I
pounds to be fold. Enquire at the place where the Ele- j
!TOR, phant is kept. 1
Feb. 20 1.
For Sale,
ruary ?. goco dozen BRISTOL BOITLES I
— Bar IRON
PICE
r honesty. so- TAR I
as cham- CL ARET. ia hogsheads and cases
lion fee may SWEET OIL in cases 1
£SB South February „» Apply to F. CePrrXGZ*,
£ f jt J N#, sb 1 Souia Front street.
I A House add "Lot: Wafhi
£,%ipjsste
«/«oTI t>, hfieht of the firft ftory^a pkafant open- Va -1
j ivgfd# South, of p<*rhap« three huaircJ mor .
Paffeiton may be had about the tft of April or May next. 7
eh. retire if djfired % J
i icvtnxdr-, csTiVcurity :.U.i iatercl.—or
fitrttZ on ArcK.ftreet, anywhere Frottt +
, Twelfth streets, will ho taken in either i«1 pat 55
> or for the whole amount of the purana.e ; accord g 5/3
their value at libefil rate?. , . '
rnr further partkMars, please to apply at the Counting
II House of the iu' fc-'iber, Aj-ch-ftr-et, No. 146, J ,^ 0
: morning, from 7to 8 o'clock. SAWS OU.
_ , UMi i?joo
February si 2 Th ,
( Pennsylvania Population Company- q M ixydbyth
x to TICK is hereby given, to such Share-holders as priaei.
NaS not pai.llheir aflelfnenu or -helrihare.-to The dray
pay the fame immediately to the Secretary ps theComp*- d.-lay, as so.
nv at the Company's Oihce, No. 53 north son.th street, nonce will I
Philadelphia. I'kcy are furthet informed, thjt m | Snchpriz
Icf payincthe fame within thirty d*y. from the 4* of - \ drawmg «
bruary, rift, nr, the leveral forfeiture will be Oriaiy ex- t he beneSt.
. j aAcd, ia conformity to the lift article of auoctation. (S:.
By order »f the Board,
' SOL. MAR ACHE, Secretary
a— Uo
Feb 2.
• I " Notice to Calico Printers.
SXERIFfS SALE City of
r»Y virtue of a Writ of ?«&]"' E*P™V, »« °i'
B rcSed, will »e exposed to fale'at the awelljng-houfe
I of U'illiarc and Thomas Jcrdans, in Hurnir d K
Neweafile county State of Debware on Wednesday, die
4 UT - ill of March neat, at tea o dock, a m, of laid day,
Hk property, coufntipg 01, trame
«d' 3 machine
kves household and kitchen luruiture, An ai
and «U be fold lor STI QHAM, Seriff.
t n JJiac!
Fe\rc3T7 22, XT97 Gun
For sale, P«n
A Quantity of Excellent Bab
0 , -■ * 1 n C 01!
Sll< Turks-Hland Salt, . hu.
S of Aud a few liogfteads A gen
3d and 4th proof Rum. Febrn;
£<f Cq.^
■i dif- February 17- . -p 0 I
On Saturday,
eUar; The s 4 th iiiOaot, a- 7 o'c jck i.= the t«ping,
tisr- iViUbe Sohi h Auaittn, ot the (.'■jjee-boujc,
mer- adjoining LQTS of
30 a- 0 f - Mo , amei.liug, a little to the southward of South.street
mor " andadioimn" a\o feet wide lane, called the laisa Ta.vc U'Hl
(acres L , NC ,' v.id iso ladf of Samuel Powell, de- DeprK ,
lid off, - g'-'S' ca
,'t mil 1: t. ~ Containing and "83perche» fe ult ' *
ict l-'t I S( 0 . 5. tornaininj acifi«t«i 83 peicVi pietcii"
1 ea!y j; 3. Containing acres ar.a 5b perches and w
leffion Pl-im of the Lots «re at Coftee-Houfe. . the l-td
if,mt»- .7 _ ED.V RD FOX. the
Impotftant Public Doc\ipicnt» »tie»o
—— THIS DAT IS PUBLfSIIED, The
I And for Sale '^rha
>ufe in f^ x . he office of the Editor 01 the Gazette cf tne P
, a» 7 United sutes, .
No 119 Chelnut-S rert, aforefi
, thre'e [ruct one dollax and rirrr, ckkTjJ ihtm.
fttuate 1 a FEW copies of the p OI
Receipts and ExrENDiTURES poses
°si " Of THE UNITED SPATES,
r% „ For the Year 1795, c '
' Beinc the I-ATEst Period to which an account can be ei
Ust U vs'.l b « made "P- February 2 2 S
' '" j m This d*; is publi/hrd, | txchi
C ° 1 By Wiliam Cobbet, in thiee lra.e oftavo volumes, |
-eer I A Defence of the Con/lilutions of Govern- inipe
>4* nieni of the United States of America,
j I Againfl the attack of M. Turgot, ii. :iis letter to Dr.
Od. I price, dated the twenty second day of March, 1778,
, csptain By JOHN ADAMS, LL. D.
President of th&Unitrd States.
Emhjllifhed with a striking Likcnefs cf the aathor, R
if Cf. I .-leg ntly eagrayed by Smthcr—fc-oln in original portrait a jj.
| by Ctpky. February -.3 old;
I ———— ; coat
s - n the I Red Clover Seed. a fir
'vert:fed Fresh red Claver Seed of the best quality, in bags of who
his even- 5 bushels each . _ j , „
rom day i Madeira wine in pipes, fit for immediate u.e
ot sooner Teneriffe wine in pipes, hogiheads ?tid quarter caflts £
Ditto do of £rlt quality, fpr the use of private *>
families * . j
7 j Coffee in hogiheads I _f
. Jamaica spirits
:en, Irom j c onnc fli c „ t fc>ap in {jnall boxes
Window glal's /ad Spanish fegars, and A
Two trunks of best pjteut, plain and ribbed silk and P.
cotton hofierv, for sale by mt
JOHN CRAIG. !
j February 1. wtf&mtf Pi
I : -'i 11 m
Co. i FOR SALE, BT
i_l Philip Nicklin & Co. i™
Tm«».al and") TEAS R c
1 Hyson S ' M
tively ear- I j-Tubs Quicklilver j,-
1 a Chests bandanno Handkerchiefs
j K few chests Mancheftar Goods, well assorted ia.Cor- '
J durovs, Thicksets, Ginghams Mufliaets, dimities, &c. U;
Wring 54 1 3 Trnnks black Sewing Silk
1 10 Tons Sheet Lead ti<
tj 1 Nailsafforted fiat and sharp points a
j London Partiiilar") Madeira wine in pipes and hogs- q
India Market' J h clds B
40 Pipes and 10 Hogiheads Teneriffe Winp Q]
I 10 Hoglhead. choice Port Wine ti
7 Tierces Snake-Root
I 26 Calks yellow Paint
1 9 Boxes acd 12 Bundle* writing Slatas
I 1 Box <nk Stands and Note Prelfes
fXCER. | 14 Bales Sail Cacvafs assorted, No. Ito 8 {
tont ftteet. j February 11. aw&ftf
Canal Lottery,
no. i.
XTITHEREASsbe Stat* of ****?<s
VY the uuderwritiu, to twen'y-M thon^l.
tjio hundred, an- fifty *»k". f,r Ae P U ' l '° fe ■ fS
a Canal through the City <» fro- th
tomac to tbeESfterr. Brand, „ ,
The following is the of No, I.
Viz -I Prite of dollars, 4opoo
l ditto 10,000 10,000
Tickets, each J
* 6 ditto 1.000 6 >°°°
»o dirt® 406 *£»•
I 4 o ditto 40Q
51 tlitio 'JO * «
, j;j o ditto " t i *
To be raised for the C»aai, 16,15®
5850 Prii«9, I7s>°°®
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Ticket*, atTenDoUarf, - 17J.000
*-?■ jhe Comir.iteoners have taken the Securities tc
qjivd by the aforefaid aft for the punAual payment «*
0 tn Thc"rawißeof this Lottery will commence, without
1- j delay, as fovn as th? Tickets are fold, of which timeW
It Sach prize. « are not demanded in Si months after th«
=- drawee is finifted, fball be confid.r das relinquished for
t* the benefit of the CanaJ, and appropr»ated afcorduigly.
(S-t&d 1 NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Y,"m. m.duncanson,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
Pur of Feb. 11.
di- _
S Robert Smith & Co.
£ Ns. 58 South Front Jlrcet,
line' HAVfc. is* sale,
a r.!' Nar.!:.£eM,
ALSO,
An assortment of India Goopj|
A*ONC WHICH AIE,
Bandanos
f Pullicates
Black and colored Perfisns
Gurrtfcj
Pur,jams
Biltaes,
Coffees
Humhums, &c. together with
A general assortment of Europe^Goodf
Suitable for ths ecluii " leafon. '
February 20 mw&fjw
• s A Black Boy.
L who has Extern years to serve. Enquire at NP.
11l Chclnut street. February a>
' e . Sales of Depreciation Lqqd.
rnfcip
llrect, TO THE PUBLIC.
Ract WHEREAS a number of tracts of lard commonly
11, de- Depreciation land, formerly in Weftmoreland, now in Alle
ga,;v countv, were fold a: Greci:(\)iirg, in the roopth of /.u
---cuiV I*«, by the coinmiflioucis ol Weftmoreland, for tax i
p.ewnded to fcc due for Allegany county, in the year 1783 :
*sd wutaiAS the said taxes were not legally ane ied. uor
the Cid commifiiooeri authorized toafi. nor due notice o*
ifl'r. ihc hi-ruded laic given.the coram.ffioners for a pre ended tax
— not exceeding in the vnole S3; dollars, having fold 53 333
• icies of valuable land /
The piopi'Ktoistake this method of cautioning all pei.of®
jgainft making payments to the feid comraiffioners for any
r .u e nurchafes made ot ttem, or of purcnafjng any part of the
said lands from any o. her perfqn, the-, mtjn to defen d tntir
property la illegally solo, as wril against the comximonerj
aforefatd, as a!i othei perfous pretending to hold undrt
ihem.
For the information of their fellowjcitiaeni they pro.
ES pose shortly to givs a Hatement of the combination formed
for the purchase of property, and the names of the
persons concerned therein,
can be Februai yr6. ead-^t
5 Walhington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
j «xchang*4 for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chefr.ut
lmes, ireet, where a correft Numerical Book is kept for public
overn•
changed for in the Washington Lottery, o£
' which the 60th and 6ill days returns are received,
to Dr. gj. Yhe Bulinefs of a Broker carried on as usual.
1778.
I«.pgary 12. ttst^
20 Guineas Kcward.
e asi-hor, RAN AW AY from the fubferiber en the 23d OSober,
1 portrait a n^rk MaLAITO BOY, named MOSES; year*
*-§3 w o i,j ; ,bout 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mwed green
! coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons ;
a striped veil; a. pair of dark spotted pantaloons, ami
nba'sof whole boots much worn. It is probable he may chang*
his name and dreis. He has been accustomed t® driving
a carriage, and waiting. The' above reward will b«
/if paid for fccuring him so that the fubferiber may get him
5 r . irain. and if hroueht home all reasonable charges paid by
£ private
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. IP. 14
Lately Imported,
AND now opening for Sale, by the Box or single ream,
bv B. DAVIES, at No. 68 Market-llrcet, anaffort
mtnt of EN6LISH PAPER,
RAIG. —SONSISTINC Of
fcmtf Printing Paper, of an excellent quality, both Medi
■ 1 nm and Demy
Y> T riting Ditto, qf various fixes and qualities, as
0. Imperial Thick and thin folio-\
Super-Royal Post, ( for
Royal , Foolscap, common C o (Hc«i
'Medium, commos Ditto wove J 0 *"
Ditto lyove for drawing Pott,
ted is Cor- Demy, common Thick and thin 4topoft,plain
icc. I>'tto, wove ' gilt and black-edged
Demy and foo fc marble paper
A general assortment of the neatest Sta
tionary Ware, a variety of maps, charts and plans and
a valuable collection of BOOKS in the ipglilh, French,
and hogs- G rec t and Latin languages. As he intends to decline the
heads Book-trade, he proposes to dispose of his fiock of Book*
oh hand »t reduced.pr ces, for cash or approved notes: ca
talogues of the books may be bad at the fame place.
February »3 ih&fgw
A Woman Cook,
WHO can be well recommended, may bear of a good
Ipkce by euauifing of iheFnatcr.
February 17.New Theatre.
THIS EVENING, F.Vwry 25,
Will be presented, a Comedy, called
The Wheel of Fortune.
Sir David Daw, Mr. Francis
Tempest, Mr. Bates
Penruddock, Mi. Cooper
V Woodville, Mr. Warren
Sydenham, Mr. Vv'ignell
Henry Woodville, Mr. Moreioti
\Ve3?.le, t Mr, Harwood
Woodville's Servant, Mr. Mitchell
O.licer, Mr. Warrell
Jenkins, Mr, Djrley, jun-
James, M r . Warrell, iun.
Richard, Mr. Morgan
Harry. Mi. Macd maid
Thomas, Matter War.eli
Mrs. Woodville, Mrs. Morris
tmily Temped, Mrs. Merry
Dame Dunckley, Mrs. DoSor
Maid. Miss Melbourne
To which will be added,
(i'or tlie 3d time in this Theatre, —and with the original (
Overture and French Music, computed by Monfr. Ro;hi.
fort, never perloiroed in America)
A Grand, Serious, PANTOMIME BALLET, called <
The Death of Capt. Cook ;
pefforroed in Covent-Garden Theatre, London, under |
the direction of Mr. Byrne, upwards of Five Hund- ,
R f.d Nights, with universal applause.] '
With New Scemry, Machinery, Drefit and Deco- 1
rations. I
■Deferring an Exafl Re pre fen tat ion of the Manners and Cuf. t
flows ol the Natives of Owhyhee, in the Pacific Ocean. a
f Meflfis. Byrne ?
Francis
. I Wariap
ThePrincip*! Charaften byJ Darlty fl
j Moreton n
I Fox
I Warrell
snd Mrs.Byrne. t (
Itldlani, —Meflrs. J. D«rley, J. Warrell, Mitchell, Sig. Doc- tl
tor, Macdonald, Moigan, M. St. Marc, M, Lavency, &c. c ,
Indian Womefi,—Mrs. Harvey, Mrs. Metchtler, Mrs. Dc,a- •
nulfu '\i r° Ur " J e ' r lifs Mi's Bates, Mist "
OJdneld, Miss Anderfon, M'lleSophie, See p<
With DANCES, PROCESSIONS, &c.
I Sc * aeT Ydefigned and executed by Mr. Mi lbourne. G
M r ? h n ' B !?' of THE WAV TO GET MAR- f„
RILD will be on Monday next. tr
BoXjQne Dollar —tv-ctcrcii s ,
xnrx uollar, and Gallery, half a dollar. oi
Tickets to be had at H. &P. Rice's ftook-ftore. tl]
Thta'tre ° ffic€ ad J oi '""S the
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their
servants to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and ,
to order them, as fooß as the company are seated, to
withdraw, as they cannot on any account be permit- ru
ted to remain. no
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rile precisely at 6 o'clock.
Places for the Boxes to ue taken at the Office in the t io
front of the theatre, from 10 till 2 o'clock, and from r
10 till 4 on the day*of performance.
VIVA T RES PUB LICA / pc !
1 - 91 i
landing, mi
AT Walnut-street wharf, from on board th« ihip r '°
gy, captain Elliott, from Bourdcaux. 3 g a '
™ DE GRAV£ . or w 'hite Claret, in Hhds aod Qr. A PI
the
t RED CLARET, in Hhds
Ditto in cases of 24 and 30 bottles eadi , 1
cn and Souchong. TEAS, in quarter chefcs J
For sale by
Rundle hf Leech, Gc .
- , Nn. 9 Walnut.street.
Pebrua, y 6 . rawftf
Will be fold, 4»'
On Wednesday, the ift of March, 1
At the Merchants'Coffee-Houfe, was
At la o'clock, noon, 1
A Lot, ox Piece of Ground, on t
CwKTt" acresand /°°P"chcs, Ctuatp near the cies
■V>( Blue Ball Tavern, on the Paflyunk road,' four miles wh'l
from the city of Philadelphia. This Lot conmiands a I
view of thenver.,Delaware and Schuylkill, is nearly AKltf!
Ed with a good cedar poll and rail fence, and has a never- nor '"
,ailingfpnng of frefli water riflrjv ; n ir_One acrc Q f .port
which is good bottom meadow—adjoining lands ol Willi- did
am Bingham Esq. Jacob Sink, and other,. The terms miei
sale, one fifth part in ten days after the day of sale '
when immediate poffeflion will be given, the reMue in r
Taymcms agreeable to the purchasers on p,y w „ £? in- reafc
tereft thereior, and giving security for the same °if re mca '
Lz
cissp:
College-Hali. 'y
®^ DI f GS an d Recitations* fpeci
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining. caftci
Oa SJ7URD s!Y EVE MXO, February 4j , not j
At 70 clock, will be delivered, . sam,
F'K&T part
_Authony', Funeral Otation, Shakespeare.
2anga sTriumph over Alonzo, Young.
_, second part a'cooi
Ode on St. Ccecilia's Day, p oce C ed.
Hamlet 0 n his Mother's Marriage, '
Odt to Madness, the 8
third fart to fa
Daih ', sh > k p««- ;
Alexander's Feast Collin. woult
Tiek «'" had of Mr. Po„lf ffln> j un . at t hc Library • it Can
Jtmr. M'F.wee s looking-glafs-ftorc, No. 7 0, S. Fourtl-1 he ct
• Half a dolfar each
Mi
~ ~ ' > south
ror Sale by the Subscribers, I was ;
Georgia Cotton fhoulc
Carolina Indigo a ,
Fyal and Teneriffe Wine, t .J v •
Ravens Duck eaiyn
Gurrihs r f
CofTahs He 11
Indie Bandana Handkerchiefs with i
•One Trunk containing Sewing Silks and Silk bil1 "
and Cotton Handkerchiefs. Mr
February !'/ RAZ,f R ' No - 95. S. Front-street. fed to
rebruary 21.. yQte a
A Young Gentleman? ' ?
WHO can come weli recommended by a refpeftable '
of would be willing ,J engage either T
m J", accem P tiD S houL, public office ur thern
wholefalt Hore. A hue addressed to A. B. and left with land > 1
i brua" ° W>U bt djU ' s "" c;sjcd to - j own w
4,3 _ Ist j aortht
CONGRESS or ths UNITED STATES.
' HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Friday, January 20.
The house entered upon a consideration of the
resolution repotted yesterday by the committee of
the whole on t!.s fubjefl of further levenue.
Mr. Coit, wished for a division of the qucftion,
vix. that the proposition for a tax on land, and that
for a tax on slaves, (hould be put leparately.
Mr. Swanwick called for the yeas and nays.
. They were agreed to be taken.
Mr. Nicholas thought the lefolution (hould not I
be divided, but that the propolitions/or a tax on
land, and a tax on (laves, flionld £0 together i as he ,
(hould objcdl to vote for the tax on land, except j
that on (laves accompanied it.—He thought the
gentleman had better try the cjuellion, by'uioving to
strike out what refpedted (laves.
Mr. Madison thought it wiwld Le bed ft>r the
two propolltions to go togetbei ? but if not, he |
-rigmal jjj no t think the embarrassments iiifuperable. If
.of hi- t |,e q Ue sti on wgs divided, those \ylio thought a tax
called on Caves necessary, mull vote for the lirli part, and [
if the second was rcjeiSed, there could not be j
) wanting an opportunity of voting again/t the tax on I .
llund' ' and * was "cccffary to observe that it had been j
found expedient to aflociate these two taxes toge-
Deco- in order to do justice to, and to confo'm to
the eflabltlhed ufage«f a very large traiS of eoun
-1 Cut try, who were entitko to some degree of attention,
"n. and to whom a tax on land, without a tax on slaves,
«ould be very objectionable. „
Mr. Coit said, he could not gratify the gefitlernan
from Virginia, by varying his moti#n, as it would
not answer the purpose he h&d in view.
Mr. Nicholas supposed if the motion was perlif
ted in, be was at liberty to move to insert slaves in j
Doc- the part of the resolution. The gentleman ,
" rtainl y ew h' s own views best ; or he thought
Milt " wa * P9ffiW e t0 have fettled the bufmefs be pro
posed.
Mr. .W. Smith saw no difficulty on the fubjeft, U
Gentlemen would vote for the firlt part oi" tlw rr- ; "
folutioH, in hopes that the feconf 1 but J"
■*"«^ l an opporiutiity
of voting on the main quedion, aDd thereby defeat C<i
lore. 'l |e whole. . ct
the Mr. Van Cortlandt weuld vote for both together, .
btlt not fepat ately. * ' 1D
'and r ' 9 al i atl " enquired as to a point of order, OU
!, to 4 T hlt: ' ,er tl)e part of the refulution was car- tf '
mit- ntd » and the fet.rnd negatived, the queftiph would
not then be taken upon the resolution as amended ?
the The Speaker aafivered in the affirmative. W!
Mr. Williams said it would fa-ve time if the quef- t °'
th - tion was taken upon the together;
rom for if several gentlemen voted agaiuft the (iri pro- pcl
1 / poiition, lclt the lad (hould not pass, ti;o whole ,0
- 9i|g'lit in this way Le defeated. He thought a vote CIU
might be lafely taken upon the whole together, aa
> etr . no one would be bound by the vote which he now 11 v
g are to votc i" favoar of the bih', if he (hould not ,
qr approve of it. For his own part he wished to fee
the plan, though he did not know that he (hould a,<i
vote for it. wai
Mr. Nicholas supposed there was not the difficul fpe '
ty mentioned by the gentleman from New Yetk. WO '
GentlemeD would not rifle the whole by votiVg a- ed 1
gainst the fir ft part of the resolution ; fincc, it ihe -
( lecond was not carried, they could after'War<Ui«fcK proi
_ the whole. J mul
The question was then taken by yeas and nays :lbl=
48 to 39. agai
The lecord part of therefolution relative toilaves
was about to be put, when J eai
Mr. Gallatin said, l.efore the question was taken
on this diviiion, he would jufttnention why this fpe- cr>u!
:he cl " personal ptoperty was brought under view, °. ft]
les whtlft all othffr personal property was unnoticed. tlu "
It wag very true, that (lock upon a farm in the acce
:r- nor . and ea ' l yn states, paid nearly as great a pro- 1
of .portion of the taxes of tbofe (tates, as the negroes nch
li. did those of the southern Rates, and therefore it bc 1
ns might seem somewhat wrong to introduce negroes WOM
in ' 111 ' he one-cafe and not cattle in the ether. The nii ' c) '
n _ reason which induced the committee of ways and bcin l
e . means to was, that negroes are con- lhe
k- bned to certain spots of land in the southern states, ,hc «
whilst horses and cattle extend nearly equally over I iaid '
a whole country. A land tax, unaccompanied with i whet
jc I tax OB llaves wo " ld be very uupo'pular in those | therc
1 as 11 wohM throw too great a burden upon I rcf P e
_ (armors who did not hold llaves, and fall tco lioht- ' ,hc y
ly :>un those wlvofe property chiefly conlifK'd of wa V s
slaves., 1 here was this difference betwixt the t»o M
lpeoes of property. A farmer in (he northern or £oor
eattern states wcnild not th.nk himfelf aggrieved bv im P a
not paying a tax upon his farming ftofk ; but a tllc y
farmer 'befouthern (tates would think himfelf, He *
aggrieved if hu land was taxed, whilst the slaves of ; vvas 1
the fiavt holder were not taxed—lt was on this j fro!n
account that this (pecies of property was introdu- ! tha:
• the rs
•Mr. Murray said, he was not so far convinced by ~lis 5
lhe arguments of the gentleman just fat down, J P oni <
to fay he would ultimately vote for this fpcuies of «afe.
. ' t^ came i ' n d ' d »ot do more jult.ee in the eafe,th ?n tonal
I" vote aga'irft'it!'' 1 co " cc '* e it poflibfe, he (houJd
Mr. Murray said he considered the slaves of the the P 1
«as adopted for taxing labour in other states, he hc be
(hould vote against it ; fl 4 ves, had been considered saw B
as property, but they were labour. He was decitl- fta,cs
T Ol 3 U " d tab"'X ' b "' a K aiflft thi* part of burde
the resolution, except other labour was taxed also
He mentioned this tfc« he might not be chW *»««- «
with inconliftency, in cafe he (hould votc against the ' llould
L I Vf TT ' whilrt
fed 'ft a pCr faid ' 'bough he was entirely oppo-! sands
lot aliVft d Pr ° P K b) ' thC rCfolu;i 3£ "' fl, ° Uld
vote again It the whole, yet he thought it uoht that Ti '
land" °f ves ou,d be introduced with a tax on was v<
nd , for as this dit eft tax wa. to be raised byZ *
poi lonment through the dates, whether the sou but w
a»d n in la S Pa, l on
i oil : ZfZT" mcffcft; ead ' p-j in it.
» /
—•*» tlie eaflern : No Injury »at done by this to any o-
r ES. l ' ier
Mr. G. Jacfcfon said hewasagainft all species of
direst taxation, but particularly on this species ;
and, if a tax on land was carried he Ihould bring
of the orward a 'evolution to lay a tax upon all property
\ a r vrfted in public securities. He wished for the yeas
and nays on this question.
c^jon The yen and nays were agreed to be taken,
dth' t r ' Nicholas wondered to hear the obfeivation
of his colleague. He fliould vote for the queition,
though he and his conlh'tuents would be affefiled by'
r ' 2 '"' it; but, in the district which that gentleman repre- •
, j fen ted, there were no slaves, and it was therefore 1
his and his conlti.uems interell to have a tax on I
* Oaves, in order to lighten that on lan<J,
Mr. G. Jarkfon laid, if was not so much on ac- f
count ot the imeielt of himfelf or his constituents <
that fieoppofjd thi# tax ; but he objeeiedtoit as a 1
° capitation tax. I
( Mr. Moore said the filiation of the southern <j
' | states been truly stated. lu the wcttern parts, h
' jj. there were few slaves. He said in the rgprefentati- (
on to thaf house th« labour of the nee roes had been t
a tax
a coiifidered as sto 3 with rcfpcet te white persons, p
' t therefore the ability of the date to pay was confi- «
dered in the fame proportion. His colleague from n
the mountains {Mr. G. Jatkfon) fhojild ccufider tl
r that il the holders of Haves were not to pay a pot- t<
tion f the tax imposed on the itate of Virginia, it
would fall very heavy Hp6n his condiments, jnd tl
thofo of iiis colleague, where few blacks wsxc kcj»t. w
He hoped, therefore, it would pass. U
S ' Mr. Jeremiah Smith »is aivare that a tax on at
■man ave ® wou lighten the lax 011 laud in the southern bi
(Utes, and therefore 1 e did not wonder *t the re- w
prefesrtatives from these states wishing it to take di
place; but by 10 apportioning ihe tax, would not an
the land-holders in the southern dates pay less than a
the land-holders in parts of the unjou where 1)0 in
i j | slaves were kept }He beljeyed they would. A tai
ro perfbn, for inftaoce, in NewHatnplhire, holding an
P ° the value of looel. in land, would pav a larger pur- aci
• a tion of the tSK than an lk.lder of land to the fame pe
' rt ' extent j-i Virginia—.. ihij wmrh? fte-tin
but ' a " d an objection to this mode of taxing the fyl
. fo«thern states, as, though the tax would,fall more ty,
r equally 011 them, it would not be so with refpeift to 'ht
.other states. m e
[j Cr> , N'- Goodrich said this 4ax appeared to have htm ;
introduced to gratify a part ot the union ; but it j wa
3er, ,0 be eonfiderd as it operated upot, the Uni. ' the
:ar- tfd ~:cs at large. A dire it tax, if agreed to, (au
uld -h o,J 'd fa" ks equally as poflible every where. It | few
.j ? w . as 10 bc observed, that a tax on land and h, iu r es, ! emu
with their improvements, which had been agreed ' at J
lef- '°; would be a tax laid by an zfleflbr once in ten or ' '
• r . htteen years. This yvould occasion an equal ex- I f'oi
;. o ; penfe in every ihe union ; tut, wit!i refped ! >»g
ole ( ° a tax on aves > there would be required frcqacnt lane
□te cl,umerat ' ons »»' leait an apnual enumeration. This *>hi
a| would be attended with cqnfiderable expense, K nd c*m
ow ' C w ? ul i"f 1,9 an expense borne by that Itate, but
)0l by the United States.
fee , J Vrc wa « an pther objeiftrtß, A land tax, he
laid, was a certain tax, a tax on real property ; ft Ik JS
was immuvcable and certain. Not so, a tax on that
ul , lpec.es of property. Such a lax, ,he apprehended,
k. v/oui he uncertain. He was, however, uuacqnai'm-
edwuh the detail of the bus.ness: but
hc made, ihat if the t ou«
a prapded iax was not fuffcienily p-oduftive, there
mult be are tax, which would occasion a couGder- a
y« ab . c * p ®'! fc '- Frora thl ' 4 principle, he should vote E enei
again(i this part of tKc r<M r uluiion. r X^
Mr, Nicholas said he did not underiland the oh
jeftions of the gentleman from New-Hampshire north
(Mr jeremial, Smith). He did not fee how he fT
e. c^ u! , d P ,o . du « a " equal value in land in every part N
v> of the uurun._ The tax, he said, would be appor. 'routi'i
ttoned according to the number of persons, and not Th
ie accort?1 »g to the number of acres in any fta:c. dr -T 5 :
3. . , lftllc gentleman from Conneaicut (Mr. Goad- Ul
:« , ni l wo "' d «ly. upon this information, he miVht
it e that an annual enumeiation of slaves f'c!
;3 wo'j Id not colt so much as an assessment of laud
e ™de once in ten years. With r.fpecV to .he tax
d being uncertain, he was totally miflakeu 1? was W
1- j l^ e l;noa P r °dudlive tax in the fouihem dates. If , *
I the tax was laid wholly upon land, it would be ,! nd '
r | ia ' d 8 § reat P ar ' which would be unfaleablc, and - "
h r° ' 'V? t0 bf madcot ' "I ection,
■ e I 'here would be found great deficiencies ; hut with 'TH
n j efpec. to Caves, there would be 110 failure, becaVfe (
. | they were a species of property which al- to a)o
f wa >'! sand a rc . ad r Wc .Ul a southern 'marks;. " Btaa
0 fa ' d l,c hsd heard much on that fojhv
r f <r i T P f t0 tc J ualit >' of taxation. It was by r ct
f .y, 1 ;' l aid ' to ™»ke taxes fall exactly r-qual: imot!
they will tome caf« heavier than in others. thc:r a
fj , He would Itate a cafe- When a tax on carries "T"
r ; vvas u,ujer conhdemion, they fouud the gentlemen m2i
s i ,kT\F' nea ! C^'l votlu g Wltheut scruple, becufe- of the
- a ' P aid hundreds of collars only, where o- F^l'o;
thers paid thoufarrds. There was no I _J±
, this , yet those gentlemen winked at the difpro-
Pornon. He hoped they would dwfo in the prcLnt p c
r M. Potter said if this part of the rcfolutiou was Foi
, a g«ed to, ,r was to ap pe „ion a .axon the per- be #f
' ZWt nr ,1 I*' { r lhcr " ,ta! «. which ho -M
' ttu1 7 r* U gkdof; a ' ld if
from those 1 attscould point out any way by which « „
. of o-ber states could be corae A I
1 h h ? WO " lda g ree !° the P r '-knt propolit.on ; but
he.believed this could not be done ; and if nJt, he
I ,:o reafou why the personal property of those Fet " l
states foould be to bear a pa', tJf ,h\ propo ed
" fSd , W r rlona ! FOP rty OChcr iiat «
lUifeied to go free. It was a hard cafe, h* said „ ,
Staid bT° Pt>ffcfftd 3° r 4CO collars in land.' Q A %
' \ imtskz pay a poaio " lhc direst h3Vi
f.nl i ?^. a ® uencc ' who polTcfled mauv thou-
hindsja public securities, er loaned on interest ??, nvc >' :
ihou,c pay nothiug, on c
verfmuch lh f C ''° Ufe that * e "E
tax SionM 11 * j ' ! ght of; it was not whether a writing
but SrS 3 °" Cirrli S cs or peifonal property.
but whether they would agree to the report of the m ° !t co '
committee of the whole, viz. « , hat at x (ho ,M Thc >' so
be laid on flavej, with cmaiu
piSn n t rfen /" d ' hC fl,oUld Totea ? a ''«ft this
FropuG.itn,becaufc « wa. . &
, any o- vote sgainft every q Ue (Kon Q f t } ia ' t k ; ,
source of indirect taxation was exbauLd, " d
ecus of thought this was not the cafe 'at present
pccies ; Mr. Claiborne said, he thought also t L t a; a
j bring taxes should net be resorted until indirefi f 01!r
roperty were exhauited, but he believed they were ,
he yeas haufteo and that dired taxes were the only J"*
left t(> them of raifmg money . As
en. country which was curfcd with negroes, he wiftri
ivation the present motion to pass for the fake n r m l
leilion, the tax bear in fomodegree equally in the f, ..V®
MkJ IT'S,'
repre- tfackfon) that a tax on slaves bore an affinity td ,
;:fon zrz& hc * oM a,f ° «; es
f Mr ' Galla^n said » he wouldjtift notice what had
on ac Men from the tleman from ConnefH ad
tuents GoodriehJ which was the only thine J/fc- „
it as a ment wh.ch had been u sed again* , he ff feM "**
position. As to what had been IV, about Z
1 ?}** fa lin S on different lta.es, or what
parts, had bee ß said by the gentleman from Rhode-Island
rntati- (Mr- Potter) with refped to the D erfn,,:,l
1 been yof the esftern (tares, he did not fee how^T*
rfons, plied to the>efent qucltion. [f U)c pro> f . "£
confi. was certain, and tlje expense of colled'on would
from not be greater than would attend the coll e flil r
; :f ' d " ° thCr ftat£S ' d ' d " 0t fcC an >'
na, it •i he <<entleimn from Connecticut had said that
, ?n d the expense of our annual enumeration of slaves
kept. woukl btt great, and that it would f a ;| u ,
United States. H, would inform that K en,lema!
ix on «"'d the house, that when no affeffmem took place
thern but merely an it would be attended'
,e re- win, no expenle of the coition of the t,x The
take oillinition winch be made was, when a valuation
I not and an oumeration were both necessary, a „d when
than f enumei jtioß' alone was neceifary. j n t j, ( fj rl j
c no it. nance, the value ol the piopeity was to be after.
A eained, „>d -l H - tax laid ac oian n ly ; hcre
ui „g as enumeration was only uuKicd (the lax per head
P"~ ac "; r ' : "'- r having been fettled) , 10 ex .
fame penie would be iricprrrd*
rim- M--. G. laid he fjio'frr tronu:*psr.;ence. In Penn
the fylvanta there was a certain tax on personal proper*
nore ty, the taking an account «f whi, h di-J not i,.«,rtfsf e
■t to 'he expense. Every three years there w„ ,a/fefl".
rnent or 1-e.fonai property, aiyo.ifnl u .;.h «ere
>fen • "aves j but the enumeration was aiu*a.M {„ this
"j 1 I w *r- ' rhe colle&'f* called twice upot perf.,„ s -
Jm. J the firit time he gave them notice to pay, and took
to, .a" account of their piopei ty, which, coi,filti„ K of
It | few aJtKfe end !lu value b"i,g ajr-ady fixed, h a
'S. co " W lcll th-m at the time the amount to be paid
etd at his next call. iggl
ior | As to any degree of uncertajnti -ppreher,ded
ex-j from this tax, that might be removed, by throw
led »ig the deficieixy, if there fliojjid be any, on the
em Jand. He thought, theretofe, the o"i»:tion»
'his ■whiah had been ur K ed against this tax,-wuu'd be
md e\y obviarcd.
JUL j_7"o he Conli?i;:ed.~\
he Thir,d Ball '
" FRAA CTS G* BTRKE beg leave to inform
lat their ftholars, triendi and rhe public in c;enerk!, ' ?'*
*d, lhat their Third-tiallf r this feaf>n vwjl be tn Vuefrfav
P Reels, will be introduced, for~~:ne firft time in thi»
nc country,
;rc The German Waltz ;
Aod the eflcbrated FAS RUSSE, wuich ( ave such
*e genera! f itisriflioi; the last Ball.
The gratuitous attt'mlaiice as usual.
b- ' ieket» to he had of Mtff. Francis and Byrne, No 79
, c north Ki s hth-ftreet. or at O'Xvilers's Hotel' Ladie.'ar#
' I equeded to apply to their female friends, scholar; ot Mt£f.
1C F. &B. or above, at their residence.
rt _ N. B. The new dances wiii not infringe upon the usual
ir. routine of the evening.
at The days of teaching, for thfir young ynpils, are Thurf.
days and Saturdays, from thri o-o'clock in the afternoon,
, till fix—and 011 t'uefdays and 1 hurl'davs, 'tpr thoi&of. »
more advanced age.
II ". Private Tui.ion as usual.
es February 15 iav.-tM?
i Porcupine's Gazette v |
is ~\\/ r its appearance on the 4th. day of
[{ * * ivlaj-ch. Irr i; who have AdvertiTcments t^
*end to it, arj rLqytiiejd to lend thefii qa % or bcfoi e '
AJarcii. Ftbrua^y
I, Public Notice is hereby given,
h f "~I 'HAI I h.'.ve applied to the nf the Supreme
c . Court ps this State, to iupplytht in my title
to a )oL ot ground Ctu:.te on tile Well fide oj V'^nr^hrt* f »*r
corttaiiiiwg in ic icet ami in lepgtft 56 /cet,bound|
ed norrhward and we 1 ward by ground e/ th-j fubferiber-
ibutluvaid by ground Edward SI; 11, an r-,.rd
s bj* I'curtii-nreet ) occasioned by the lols of a deed from
. I imorhy Harrington, John Lewis and Jaqies VaUo.i, iy
theii- attorney Robert Mollyi eyx All persons (oncerned
ar.c required to appear before the Jw ft ices 0} the Lid Court
s at the Cicy Hail in the city ot Phiadelphia, on the
u Monday in Mirch nest, to ivuke their to th« Wll
e of the iubicriber, filed in the office of Edward Burd,
. prothouotary of said court. Will.am ouipi'ln,
} February 24 s3,w
WANTED,
1 Pennsylvania bank Shares,
• For which Cajh, ot Hppro-ved Kates at 60 Jays. u. ill
be given, at the option 0. the Seller.
February 20 —4 Apply at this office.
) • .
) Wanted,
1 A NURSE, to attend a-fick Lady, a few mfles Cronj
i Xjl this city a pel son well recomniended, will be im
rne.'aiicly employed, and hbcrally rewarded. For iufor*
„ niation enquire of the Jidjtor of this Paper.
Februaivai " r 3 t
■—! t t 1 ■ ■
.brokers Office, ana
I COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third ftrset.eppofitethc national jew Bank*
SAMUEL M FR. UNCUS andJOHN VAN REED,
have entered into co-partnerflnp, gander the firm of
FR.AUNCES & VAN REED, in the bufioef< of Broker-,
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchantt. They buy and
fell 011 commiflion every fpceies of fleet, notes ol hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Money prijeured on dcpofits, &e. &e. all kinds cf
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjulted, and books fettled, in the
most correA manner. Coßliant attendance will be given.
They solicit a share of the public favor ; they we dettf
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The atmoil secrecy ebfervtd.
SAMUEL M. fRAUNCES,
JOMN VAN KEEB.
Philad. a;, 17516. mStwtfPhiladelphia,
SATURDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 35, i 79 7.
On the night of the 2d indant, the dwelling
houfe of Mr. Francis Brankenbridge, of Charlotte
in Vermont, was consumed by fire, together with
three children, viz. a boy 15 years of age, and a
gitl and boy, each between eight and nine years of
age—These children however, were not their own,
bu: h d been given to them.
By the Ship American, Captain Shallcrefs, arrived
yejierday in 17 days from Tortola.
BASSETERRE, (St. Kitt's,} December 27-
A schooner arrived here this day from Marti
nique, by which we TeaVh that five fail of the line
failed from Fort Royal en Saturday lad io attack
Tnnidada.
January 3 .
On Thursday lad his majesty's (hip Vengeance
brought in a large (hip under American colours,
from the isle of France with a valuable Gargo. She
was taken off Guadaloupe.
Same day bis majesty's ship Lapwing brought '
in a French privateer schooner mounting 4 carri
age guns, and had on board 63 men. She wa» 1
taken near Mpntfcitat.
January 13.
We are informed that captain Porter command
er of the Experiment lugger, has lately engaged 1
two privateers, that were fitted out at Guadaloupe
for tlie purpose of taking her, has captured one,
and obliged the other to bear away.
A Liverpool (hip with I2cairiage guns and 13 '
men, has been lately taken by a French privateer 1
of4gnns and 50 men, and carried her into St. '
Martins. The crew of which were fuffered to go
lo St. Thomas.
January 17. ,
The schooner Neutrality, captain Gray, arrived
here oa Saturday Lad from Savannah, in Georgia. '
Captain Gray fell in company with ti>e Amc- '
* rican brig Polly, capt. Clemens, of Portland from
London bound to Virginia ; (he* was by stress of '
weather driven off the coait, and captured by a
French privateer from Guadaloupe on Thurfd.ty 1
lad the 12th inft.
January 27.
ExtraS of a letter from Martini qui, dated Jan. 23. 1
" The Comet lite fliip is come express from ad- '■
rniral Jervis, who was obliged to quit the Mediter- '
anean, the Spanish fleet b em g too numerous for '
him, and in coming out, off Algiers, experienced j
a severe gale of wind ; three of his line of battle '
(hips got on fhoie, one of them theCourageux J
loft, and the greater patt of her crew got to Gi
braltar He expedted to haVe found admiral Mann, '
but he had proceeded as convoy to a ticb fleet for
England a fev days before. Admiral Jervis is go:« '
toLifbon, and dispatched tlif Comet to advise ad
miral Harvey, that 7 Spanift) line of battle ftips '
had proceeded to the weitward."
January 31.
We are informed that about j6o privateers from '*
3 to 6 guns, fail out of Gdjx'alpupt'j ai d daily car- '
ry in valuable KtigJifti anJ Aiqei'ican vefieis ; the
waiters and crews of the latter are imprisoned as '
well as these of th£ /wrmer. '
It is said that in the (pace of one month Englifti
goods to the amount of 16.0, pool, tterling have '
been fold at Guadaloupe. 1
A court of vice-admiralty was this day held be- '
fore the worfhtpful Robert Tbompfon, jui'ge of the
said cotlrt, for the t.ial of the (hip Grand Turk, 1
capture*! by his Majesty's (hip Veugeacc, captajn
Ruffcl. The trial was not over when this paper '
wen; to piels. 1
t
ST. JOHN'S, (Antigua) Jan. 24.
We fruit oar admiral will fee the neccfliiy of as- I
fording protection to American vessels coming to f
and 'returning from our islands, by fending our 1
tfruizerg for that purpose. The great distress wp 1
are in for want o't prpvifions and grain calls for such I
a mcafure, ~sid when it is conftdered that our ene- ;
mien in Guadaloupe can now be fuppiied only fey i
captures ot A merjeans, it becomes incumbent on c
our naval officers to exert fhejnfitlyes to p.c«ent it : t
they will be answering the end for which they were t
sent out, and rend«r themselves t(ie objects of our {
waiuclt grtttitttdc. f
■f" ,
RICHMOND, February 15. c
OaTucfday the 7th of the present month, (Jied, , j
at his reli !e»pc on Green Creek, in Cumberland
County, Col. Bevfrly Randolph, io the 43d e
5 ear of his age. - -He was it» every ft rile of the' word (
a good man. In all the various telations of pi ivate r
jlfe, his conduit was marked by the amiable quali- t
ties of finceiiiy, tendernef, benevolence, and hofpi*
tiditv —As a public tnan, he was virtuous, judicious,
,snd firm : IJ,is patriotiftn was not of the modern 1 a
r raft- Untainted by faftion, and unfvrer.ved by felf- x
jih coiifiduratiuns, —he was i. flexibly devoted to the
genuine, and true principles of republican .govern ti
nient, and good order. Unaffected by the gan- e
grene of envy, jealoufv, or disappointment, he free-
Jy paid tp fupereminent merit, and unrivalled pub- i
lie services, their well earned tr.ibutts of applause, j
and gratitude. His politics weie not merely theo
retical, his praftice evineed their veri.y, he was not p
contented with only declaiming foi the liberties of
hiß country, when they were really in hazard ; but f
ha fought for them. His aftions attested in the. d
field*, the Gncerity of his opinions in the Senate.
He deserved, and received the mod honorable testi
monials of the confidence of his countrymen, by n
appointments to the highest official (latious in this
commonwealth. Alas! he is gone—loved, and a;
lamented by all who knew him. May his , furviv- b
ing fellow-men, imitate his bright and virtuous ex
ample ! d
* Mr. Randolph, though debilitated by a hered- ci
itary gout, at a very early part of his life, yet never c:
,ihruuk from bis portion of militaty duty—He was
in arms, at different periods, from 1775, to the <;r
end of«ur revolution war.—ln the memorable-year
of ~1781, a; the head of a regiment of the yceraaa tt
5® ry of his country, he gained honor in the aflJon at
Guilford court-house, under the orders of General
Greene. In the fame year, he served in the com
bined American and French armies, before York
lown, until the surrender of the Britiflj garrison
g- under La'd Cornwallis—an event which terrninai
te ed the (truggles of the American States, tor their
th liberty and independence.
By this day's Mails.
NEW-YORK, February 24.
•d
NElV.ro RK CELEBRATION.
Wednefdav last was honored as the Auniverfary
y. of the Birih-Day of George Walhington.
The morring wasu(h#ied in by a federal salute
le from the fortifications on Governor's ((land. At
•k nocn, similar honqrs were paid by the Brigade Ar
tillery, under the diredtion of Captain Ten Eyck,
from the Battery ; and which were returned by a
- e -ifecond salute from Governor's lflaud.
S) Ihe (hipping in the harbo' displayed tht»r flags
lc and " flreamersgay and every public demonttra
tion of joy and mutual congratulation weic evi-
Tt deuced by our citizens at large.
; For the evening were reserved the brilliant and
ij enlivening tribute paid to the grejt Charadtpp of
our nation,
1 he entertainment of the Tontine public rooms
J. was every thing that the heart or eye could have
d desired. At this honorary feaft, our fair country.
)e women vied wi'h each other In adding their tefti
e, il!o[, y °^ t he general voice of gratitude and praise,
by a display qf elegance and hilarity, which would
3 have done honor to any of the worthies or nations
;r on the earth :—and, indeed, where ar« either iq be
t. fetpnd truly greater than pur own ?
o " Tis ours to tjoaft liow wide the limits stand
" Between a splendid and a happy land !"
Upwards of two hundred ladies, and near three
j hundred gentlemen, aflembled, at an early hour, in
a the grand ball roeun ; aed the coi^iuecced
at about half pad' eight o'efock.
11 The spacious loom, aided by itg newly acquired
,jr ornaments, displayed the elegant affcmblage in a
a stile of splendor fuperigr to e'ery thing cvei exhib
ited in this metiopolis.
111 a conspicuous part of the room, a handsome
allegorical painting, executed by Mr. Robart, was
, exhibited, under a large arch (l'upported by imallei
j adjoining ones) tallcfully oi.narnctiled with cntwin
, iug wreathe* of evfrgrfsn and laurel, and displayed
, r 'he buit of the President placed on a pediment—on
j one iide Minerva crowning him with a wreath of
laurel—on thjc other, Fame pointing to the bud,
and directing her looks to America, who is feate»l
beneath the pediment, fupperting the cap as il
i, bfnv
r On the base of the pediment the words " yirtue
t crowned by Minerva,'* were inferibed.
About twelve o'clock the company were sealed
3 at
T«E SUPPER,
Prepared by Mr. de Lacroix. This, for tale and
n elegance, we ptefmne, has never been furpaifed, if •
'ever equalled in this city.
e T'-'Five rooms were fe: apart for this purpose, whi h
[s were all haudfoj)(ely provided with fsitable refre(h
ments.
i he principal supper room, however, giving the
e greatell scope to tbe exertions made vn thjs occa
sion, it accordL.gly, received the mufl. attention
. and approbation, -
e Hie tables in the room, were eovered by detach
ed and continued arches, entwined with evergreen
n and laurel ; torifimg in the view a complete and
, r berrutjiul arbor.. In the other arrangements of the
tables very lively fancy, and correct talte, weie
universally To enumerate every object
which received appiobation w»uld be tedious.—
/ mong the ptincipal ornamental parts ot the ta
f. bits, an elegant tenyde was;xliibiteu a.t the head,
0 supported by fix teen pillar* (alluding to the nurn
r bcr of the United States). On a perieftal, in
p i entre, was placed a Bud ot the Prelident—the
h figuies of Fame, holding jn one hand a trumpet,
and in the tlher a wreath »»f laurel—Flora crown
y ing the Bud with the wreath, and an inferiptien
•1 on a scroll bcnc.iii: *• IVho it more worthy of it
: than him ? The bafc of the Pediment furround
e ed by fevcraj -that of Jvstice with an in
r fcrip.tiosi beneath, " You and f make hut ont," —that
cf Mars, " He lives and %uill be immortal !" A
large butt was also dilplayed over the mantle piece,
jlf.det an arch handsomely ornamented. AH the '
other delignt, which were numerous, were appro-
I, priated to the occjlion and elegantly executed,
d During the night, many patriotic airs were play
d ed by the band. Tlje managers acquitted tiiem
d fcletts with great ability j and we never were wit
e nesses to a company, where happinels and fatisfac
tian were so genefally and drongly expieflcd. 1
i. The following tosfts were given at supper : ;
I. George Wafhiugton—Long tnay he enjoy in <
n a happy retreat, the gratitude of his country, ae ,
junrivalled as his vittues and services. 1
e 2. The President ele£t—May aluccefgful admi- I
niftration rt-al;ze the benefits expected trom his tri- 1
ed patrigtifm, firmnefs and abilities. I
3. The Governor of the State—ln retnember i
. ing the mod yfeful and distinguished of our citi-' 1
, zens, may we always bejult to bis claims. r
4 The Congress—May their Councils ever be c
t purely American, wife and energetic. [
f 5. All friendly foreign powers—Continuance of '
t fticndfhip, speedy and cordial accommodation of (
: differences. c
.6 A wife and lading peace t® Europe. t
7. Piofperityto Trade and Ma- b
• nufattuies. t
p 8. Public credit—May it ever be cheri(hed as i
1 an important nerve of the slate : neither withered t
- by ill faith, nor impaired'by exceflive use.
9.. Patronage and success to institutions for the \
diftufion of knowledge.
10. The love of true liberty—May it always 2
continue intervoven with every ligament of Amcri- tl
can hearts. ; t
11. Abatement to .tke spirit of party, and in- vt
<;reafe to the spirit of patriotism. t,
12. A speedy resolution t i guaid our free confli- e<
tulious frwm the eulcrprizej of domeflic ambition, m
lat or cab.i' oF forefjjn intrigue or vielence.
* ,a ® *3 1,1 our own countrf, Love ; to others;
>m- Friendship jto none, Enmily.
fk 14. Religion 3!)r i Morality ; the great pillars
foti of human happiness ; the firoieft praps of £hc du
st ties of men and citizens.
e'r Ij.l he people ofthe United States—May they
ever regard their Union as ihe Palladium* of their
~ politic,ij Safety and prosperity.
16. The Atperican Fai<— : May they continue to
excel in good cjuallties, End never be excelled in
agreeable ones.
111111 H lII I .' I -« ' • ••
'
ry AND 1
te 'Philadelphia Daily -Advertijer. ]
r " PHILADELPHIA, February jj, £
k » == e
* I STOCKS. f
j Six per Cent. T - .... t jy j
gs J Three per Cent. ...... . jqt
a- j 4i per Cent. - - ®
■ Jfpefjpent. - - . . , . f|
Deferred Six per Cent. . T jjJ
BANK United States, ... pgj* ct d
3<j Pannfylvania, ... . 13 do. \
of North America* .... 45 do.
lufurance Comp. N. A. fhartss', - 30 per et.
Hennfylv. 3, per ct. adv. a
COURSK OF EXCHANGE. . d
ve Ob London, at 30 days, par p
y- at 6o days, 61 i-» f\
li- at 90 days, 57 i-» 0
" e> Amsterdam, 60 days, per guilder. 40
Id 9° days, 41
T ri
n ? r
ExtraA of a Letter Hate of Vitjinia, Feb. 4.
What I have long dreaded, (unfles pe.K:e took place 1
between England and France) wars in fad, againil us by E
the republic, if we wete firm in the maintenance of our f,
neutrality, has happened. Such is our condition, that on l
re the ocean againfi; trance by our privateering we coultit not
i„ mate repnfitt, because, except privateers and ships 6f war,
■J French, tin that element, do not display a flag ; and ci
such i* *■ *l l in' n f [nr>iii»i ilmt yven L
in hor maritime potency, would*proteit your commerce, 'I
•0 profelfedly a» your friend, and gratuitodfly, party in A
® raerica would rejedt this prote&ion. Many there are, too P
3 . many, 1 f.ar, not onl; in tlais (lite hpt in others, who ap- ti:
plaud the 111 ;afure s of diftreis exereif.-d ae.iinft our trade,
ie and not oaly jui.iiy but applaud, nay, more, rejoice at h<
tfccfe yialci.ccs. 1 licl'e meucull patriots; J"'
" s -"'he injury that agriculture *C experience by the fall
■ ' of the agricultural produ&ions ; the injury that, com- p
i- inerce lu, ains by this indifcriininate capture of our
■d veflels ; the burthens that will oppress us in the pay- et
in inent ojt taxes necyfljjrily jrnpofed, and the miseries and v<
us ruln "• our adventurous c,ty»eri» and tailors in captivi- at
1 ty, or, wprfe tiian captiyity, turned adrift without any
' j of supporting hte, iinder the preflure of tropic f r
al diseases coatradled in confinement, are feathers to 1
1- them,—are no -considerations to excite pity in the
breafh of these outrageous patriots : all is proper ; *»'
ie we are rig-ht'y treated—Our ingraft: Je to oir dear al cs
lies meets with proper retaliation, and the oal.y cause
i( j of regret with them is, that thej'e captures are not ten w
fold multiplied. Such language, you know, fir, is ih
daily and unrefervcdly uttered, and such sentiments {,
enteilaiiicd ,by the Keipublicae ponenta, ac pene fune
d ri." m
if COMMUKJC ATION. ?'
Tli? faotyixg ones among the Democrats (meaning P>
I, ii-oie few who tan read j have borrowed from the Lor'- cc
,lojl Morning, Chronicle, ail the phrases in nfe with the G
party who hate government 111 the abflraft and in all
its forms, and have apjme tjie aforefaid phrases, ve- ,
C r - r 'dijV; oU fl> T to the free republican con'litutiqn and t0
1- Aimiiiif!ration enjoyed by the United States. No
n won-;.- they cotrmit miflakes Hn such applications, as
inoi. of the flanders i a the Jaootiin Gazettes are writ- ,c
ten by i?ew imported Cotknies and raw Irishmen, who
n ■■ -in u fancy jheyftjll Tee Newgate and Tyburn, or lr
tint with the " wl.ite Jioys" upon the bogs of Tippe- Q,
rary. The Aurora and Eofton Chrqmcip fir«n their
F patriotic energies to hunt down the « Court party" "
e "The Sycophauis", " Oflice-Seekers", •' Horfe-Lee
a chej", « blood suckers", " The Spawn of Govern
_ mSnra! c.ofruptiin", and ten thousand oihtr names all
outUndiih and unintelligible here. This kind fi
. clam itioi? is fiffeing geer for knaves and bait for fools S
' But one plain fail i'poils it for all others. Wa'ihington 'r
is going out of office-he pa ti with patronage, wi-h
- place-giving power. Though to the end of time Siis ®°
c Virtues V ill fill every heart, within ten or twelve days ca
r, his magiftrscy will end, and with it his power to fill C«
one empty purse with salary or fees of office.
n At this day, when circumilanccs the teftimo- of
t ni " of tU f PMblic relpea to be equally dilinterefted and J n
! hueere, this very public, or, in the style of the Chro- p
aide and Aurora, the otice-feekcrs, parasites, pimps,
I- venal wretches, flock in crovds to honor
It the firft and best of men—The t'enlibilities of the citi- ca
!l ze«s augment to the lait of his illpltrious Presidency. la
A f»a of this/iature fuggefis or rather extorts the (c
e proper copclufiono. If the unhappy and triJv alarm- bs
ing prejudices of many of our-Scuthern felluw-citizens t h
arc °f a nature to yield to any evidence, one woiJd 'p
hope th.is would shake them.
From tht Ley den G'axtlte of th, \6 th O (center.
Extract of a letter from Berlin, Dec. 6. or
" The day before yefterdav ariived here a couri
er from the Count Tnuenxiei), oai'nifter of the king
at Petersburg : he has brought the important news
n of the death of the Empiefsef Ruflia. nc
6 , The princess appearing in health, after
riling very early in the morning of the I.7th Nov.
- had enteicd her cabinet : flic was there surprized Hj
- with an apopleftic attack : every remedy was ap as
plied W without efFed j flic expited towards even du
ing. The grand duke her son, was n 9 t at tije mo- fui
• ment in Peterlburgh : at his arrival there, he was t!l
received with greai demoDftrafious of attachment
; 0,1 part of the people, and was proclaimed em
peror immediately after the death of his mother,
f Ihe letter goes 00 to (late, after mentioning that th
Catharine 11. was born May 2, 17 9 , a pd coufe- ih
queatly that foe was in the 67th year of her age, tai
that he*- only son and successor Paul Petrewitz was va
- born Oa. 1, 1754, and has at present two Tons and co
three daughters by a second marriage with Marie fct
j Feaerervna priocef, of Wurtemberjj Stutgard, and in,
I '"at the new Emperor hjs confirm in his post, at the
the head of the department for foreign affairs, The coi
Vice Chancellor Ceunt QJlermann. ,j rl
A letter from Buonapaite dated at Verona, Nov. eel
24—Slates that on the 23d a fcitie was made by po
thegamfon of Mantua at 7 o'clock in the morn-, ac
ing. gen. Kilmaine obliged the Aullrians to retire Lt
with the lots of two hundred men, a bowitz and Ls
two p,eces of cannon. Gen. Wurmfer command- «o
e in perlon. 1 his ij the third fortic that hat been Co
made.
jou
ff
V J '
Futther trinflati'one from Leyden papers ygifl be
rs; given on Monday.
irs Married on Thursday evening lad, by ths Rev.,
u- M-. A nnan, Captain David Hsrdie, to Miss Mar* »
Mc'Clure.
ey
sir GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
to fORT OF PHILADELPHIA,
in i ,
The brig Paragon, Robert Roberts, bound tq
Baltimore, failed the fame day with £?apt. ShalU
cross, from Antigua.
\f The owner of the lliip Wooddrc/jj Sims, Capt.
Hodgfon, of this port, bound to Canton, has re
ceived a letter from the Captain dated July 4, an
nouncing his arrival in the Streighfsof inmda.
The American, Captain Shallcrofs, left A'ntt;
gua, January 29 ; —the following vessels had arriv
ed there in distress, blown ess tUecoaft of America—
fhip Elizabeth, Capt. Hewfon, from Halifax to
Pliil.idelphia, sprung a leak—{hip Fabius, Pepper,
of Boftun, from St. Übes, bound home, loft all her
'pares exeppt her mainmalt, 110 provifion*—Gallio>
James, Standy, of Boston from Cork to Norfolk,
:t dismasted and had no provisions, James and William,
Miriicstt, of Norfolk, From Lisbon, homeward
bound, and mnch damaged in her rigging, leaky
and short of provifioni—Sally, Smith of New. Lon
don, from Antigua, bound home, leaky, short of
provisions, and in want ef fails—Lydia, Fitch, ef
Nantuejcet, from the South Seas, was at anchor
off the town, got frefh provisions from his own
ers, loft both ins anchors and cables, and when ar
rived at this port, was in. want of every thing.
Brig Fly, RufTel, out tot days, from Teneriffe t*
e Philadelphia ; short of provisions, and very leaky.
y Brig bally, Cotter, of Philadelphia, bound home
r from St. Kitts, very leaky, short of provisions, an 4
" had loft two of his hands. Schooner Naocy, of
. New-York, Brew, bound home from Cape Fran
d cois, leaky, and in want of provifj3n—Schooner '
1, Lucy, Katliff, c«• Norfolk, bound home from St.
' 1 komat'ii ; loft his forertiaft and bowsprit, short of
0 provisions. Sloop Lucy, ~ from New London
. to Norfolk, in want of fails and rigging.
About three weeks before Capt. Shallcrofs
t he saw a brig which 4 he waj informed was
' I riends of Norfolk, from London, bound home; he
was alio informed that she was captuted by a Frencty
r Privateer, arid carried ii.Jo Guadaloupe, condemn
- e d, and the captain and ciew imprisoned. Several
j Y.effela from Halifax and Newfoundland, were alfe.
- at Antigua; names unknown.
The brig Little John, Bu-ler, of
from North Carolina, and * fchoorer from the fame
] place, had arrived with cargoes. The brig Para
. gon, Roberts, failed in company with the Ameri
can, for Baltimore,
j Capt. Shallcrofs touched at St. Kitts, from
vyhen.ee lie failed the third instant, and left there the
5 ihip Grand lurk, of New York, captain Milafty,
5 from the Isle of France, captured by La Vengeance
man of war, after having been captured by the sci r
pio, carried into Dominica, and cleared ; it is fup
r poieththe fjiip and gteater part of the cago vviil Js*
. condemned Brig Hannah, of New Port, from
- Guadaloupe, bound home, taken by a privateer k
] uot libelled ; fc&oouer Neutrality, Gray, of Boss.
; ton, and several vessels blown of the coast. ' "
, is reported, that 37 fajl of Americans are st
. St. Martins, taken and sent in by French Priva
teers ; a number also at St- Bartholomews.
» Left at Tortola, the 711, instant, an American
lndiaman, taken by the French and carried into
; Martins, from thence cut out by the JLxperi'.
ment lugger, Porter, of Dominica, and brought
' into Tortola and condemned.
Biig . , Clark, of New-York, from St.
| Dor.ll.lgo to Porto Rico, sent in by the Ref t .urce
- frigate, Cap'. VVatkins ; uot libelled, Schooner
• Swallow, Gilluigham, from St, Domingo to St.
' Thomas's, not libelled. Brig Fame, «f Lamber
. ton, fold there, to fail in a few days. Brig Ameri
( can, ,of Kennebeck, fold there, to tail in a
[ fe.wdayß.
Ih lat. 28, 27, long. 7j, fpofee the brig Nancy,
of Philadelphia, lad from St. Bartholomews, be
-1 ing blown of the coast oh his passage from Pert-au-
Prnice.put in there in distress.
; The schooner Harriot," Shields, with a valuable
. cargo, on her passage from this port to Cape Nico
la Mole and Port-au-Prince, was captured on th?
■ second of January, near Tortqga, by a French row
■ boat privateer, and sent int» Port de Paix, where
■ the vffiel and cargo have been condemned.
The following vessels belonging to this port wer»
at Aux Cayes, when Capt. Sutfon failed.
I-iig Ann, Parker, to fail for Baltimore ia fire
,or fix weeks.
Brig Maria, Latimer, to fail in nine davi.
Schr; Mary, Falks, 1? days.
And several others from different ports, names
not recolle&ed.
NORFOLK', February 14.
Fridav lafl we experienced a very severe gale. It
if*" 1 ° ° l<,ck P M - from N - W. and lasted un.
till fix, during which time very eonfiderable damage
as done to the flipping in the harbour. Much praise is
due tocitizer. Violette, commander of French frigate In
furgerite, who sent his boat and men totheaffiftance of
the d itrefied.
F«r the Gaietti or the Unitio Stat«s.
Mr. Fenmo, '
Stichis Uie vi.ulence of party spirit by which
the minds of some men are influenced, that every, '
the most trifling incident is magnified ,into impor-
tance. To this cause must be attributed t)ie obfer
vat ons which appeared in your paper refpe&ing the
condufl of the Chairman of the House of Repre
sentatives, on Wednesday, insinuating a design to
mipof; on the Legiflatftre refpe&ing the state of
the vote. When in fad, such was the noise and
confufion immediately "surrounding the House, by
dryms beating, cannon firing, & c . on accouai' of
celebrating the PreGdents birth day, that it wasinu
pomble to hear the members speak, or to attend
accurately "J the bufiluis of the Public. Mr v
Logan the Chairman stated this difficulty to Mrl!
Lafimcr the Speaker of the House, and urged.him
<0 give it as a reason for the Committee to rife
Congrcfs were on the fame reason obliged to ad-
I journ. A Member of the Legiflaturc*#•
Lc Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST, *
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dfntift to the £\_
King and Royal Family of France, of the (j r ft
College and Academy of Surgeons at woul
' Keeps a complete afTortment of every thiag necefljry j D;
to be used tnrthe oflici
Preservation of the Mputh and Teeth. wIU
Patent Minoral Teeth, and iiurß&il & Ivory Teeth ; pyj
Dentrifice ia powder; Opiatei excellent Elixir for
sweetening the mouth and preserving the teeth —he s t
a'f» furniihes Brushes and foft Sponges.
lie livei in Chfcfnut-ftreet, No. 135, above T
Fourth-street. • V3C '
November »6. . A
Cana! Lotteey, No. fl. g
Scheme of a Lottery, authorized by an ic\ entitled 1)c) :
** An a& to enable the President and Managers of the p rc f
Schuylkill and Sufquehannah navigation, Karaite, by too
way of Lottery, tin, frn of Four Hundred Thoufatid /
Dollars, fpr-lhe purpoie of completing the works, in acc
•their *Sis of .inoorporation mentioned.'' '? c
Dollars
« Prize of twenty thousand dollars, so,ooa
& of ten thoufatid dollirs, 10,000 mo
5 of four thoufar.c! dollars each, to eh,
be paid to the poflefiors of the five I
numbers firft out cf the frhee! on the lift An
day's drawing, at which time there fball
not be less than 500 numbers ftncji'awn, io,»oo del
10 of two dollars each, 30,000
io of one thoufar.d dollars each, jo,ooo
43 of five hundred dollars each, 2i,j00
100 of two hundred dollars each, 20,000
100 of one hundred dollars each. 10,000
ijo of fifty dollars each, f 1,009 ,
' 29,500 of five dollars each, I47>i°° anc
30,000 Tickets at ten dollars each, ' 30d,000 ed,
_. ,—r- br;
Six dollars for each ticket will only be demanded at P ri
the time of fa le. _ ma
All prizes Ihall be paid ten days after the drawing is
finithed, upon the demand ol ;he pofleflor of a fortunate [n .
ticket, fubje<sl to a deduiSHon of fifteen per cent. on
Such prizes as are not denian<Jed within 11 months
"after the Drawing is finifhed, of which public notice
will be given, fh»!I be cohtidenrd as relinguilhed for
the use of the Canal and applied accordingly.
At a meeting of the Preiident an.. Managers of t,Lt
Schuylkill and Sufquehanna Canal Navig3tion—and
' the President and Managers of the Delaware and
Schuylkill Canal,
Refolded, That joseph Ball, John SteinmctZi Stan
dith Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Crea, John Mil
ler, junr. and William Montgomery be a committee >✓<
to arrange and direct the mode of disposing of the
tickets; which committee (hall deposit the money in
Bank, to be carried to the credit of an account to be o- j, (
pened for the Lottery.
At a meeting c/f the Canal Board, held January 16,'9 7,
Resolved, That the committee for conducing the
LotteryJje direfted to commence the,drawing on the
fjrft day of March next. '
Lxtrail from the minutes,
Wtm M. Smith, Secretary.
Joseph Sail, 1
* John Sttinmelx, I
Sfandi/h Forde,
Francis Wijl, }> Managers.
James M'Crea,
johu Miller, jun. 1 (
William Montgomery, _ .
! Jan. 10. th&f.ff
SWAN N'S .
Riding School, Horse tlcademy & Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square. Market Street.
T. SWANN
R ETURNS his Gncere thanks to those gentlemen by whom
he Ms been employed, during hjs residence in this City* and
* flattershimfelf that the success ot his effort®, in'the numerous,
obstinate and da<igerou? diseases in Horses, in which he has Q
been confuted, together wuh his moderate charges, will fe
ure their future favors and recommendation. c
He now beg* leave to inform them and the public at large 0
that his ipaciq.us and commodious premises, erefted for th*
4>urpofes above described ai e open for the receptior/ of pupils
of either sex, whe wifhto beinftruifcd in the Art of Riding,
and the right method of governing their borles, so as to ride
•them with ease, elegance, and iafety—their horses will be
and expecntioutly broke, for every pur»ofe, and ?
.made obedient to. be will of the riders ; the natural powers 11
which are shut up in them, whljje unfolded by art, calling a
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that goblc animal
all those beauties of a&ion which providence has so bounti
fully bellowed on them. d
Also, at his hospital, every disorder to which the horse is t
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the above mftitution has never Seen qncftion- j
<d, that it has long been wanted.in this city, every gentleman's
* stud willmanifeft, and T. Swann as thefirlk eftahiifher of
art, solicits atid relies upon the fuppoit o| that
Cublic (which he is ever anxioyts in serving) to enable him to
ring it to perfe&ion. The idea of a for that
purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who wish to n
promote the, institution —the amount of each fubferip-.ion to a
be returned by services in any of the depirtments : he proiefles, v
Agreeable to the rate of charges slated in his hand bill. S«ch v
fijbfcription is now open, and the-fignaturc* of many refpeft- Q
able gentlemen already obtained. Ke therefore ipjorms his 2
friends and such Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he (hall io a few days take |
-the liberty of waiting upon them anil folicking their support c
and prvte&ion.
N. B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladies and 1
-Gentlemenwho wish to be inArudled.
Nov. 5; tthM. j
Will be Sold, by Public Vendue, '
On the ()th of March next,
A P I. A N T A T I O N,
TN Ridley township, Delaware county, ft ate of Penn • •
f»lvania, eleven miles from Philadelphia, and one from •
the great road Jeadiac:thence to Chester ; containing one |
hundred and twenty-three acres, twenty-three of which
are woodland, and eighteen meadow. On the premises
there are, a dwel'ing-houfic, barn, and other out-houfes,
injgood repair ; a good Turing of water clof« to th<? house,
and a fine dream of water runs through the premises ; by
which pa*t the meadow is watered, ,&c.
v 1 A L s 0,
On the fame day, the stock on the said farm , coniMl
ing of horses, cows, Iheep, hog% &c. A cart, plough,
harrow, and other farming utenlils ; also a large copper
flill, with the household and kitchen furniture, among
.which are beds and bedding, an eight day clock, and ma
ny other articles too tedious to mention.
Thefale tob«giu at ten o'clock in the forenoon,
the conditions will be made kuowu, aud attcudance given
.on the premises, by CIfRTtS LRIVIS.
Ridiey, February 13 14 —tthf tM9
Particular TenerilFe Wine.
jo Quarter-Calks particular TenerifiTe WINE,
Of afuperior Quality,
Forfeleby A. MARFLE & IS. H r . MORRIS,
No. 60 Dock-street.
Pe' v ruaiy I w(&miat
\
Wants a Place, ]
\ S WAITER in a gentleman's Hoale, a young man
■ A wha Ldfor a t,me in i
• firft houses in the city and whose cha _ w
s ol: No: io, south 4th, near Market ft.vet, for R.H, In
J will he attended to. PebruaryU ut
5 PURSUANT to. Refelve of the' Board of Trullee. of m
"• Wash.n'ctom Academv, in Somcrfet Comity, and ol
e State of Maryland,
NOTICE IS HEREB\ GIVEN- oi
•e That the office of PrincipakTeacher in the 6ad school
V^ a " GFNTLEMAN to teact, thehigher Greek and ' h
- A U.K.™, C-eography, and theMattom^j-ljg o
such other b. anche, oi' literature as are <' u S ht u
schools, would meet with liberal enepungexneM, and, tt u a
■A b-llt ved, wou'd obtain a. very eligible frttlcmeot. F. ,
«■ pr'fe.u, the Tiuliee, would be willing to cenu.a wtth » ;
>y ton capable of taking charge of * ' Sufficient to 1:
,d Asthit Inflilsilion ia p.ovided wtth bo.ld.og. ft.»e«« «o
in accommodate the t iincipai and h.a family, a"4 fre »enty
to eiahty boys J a library, an excellent ?
„ thematical apparatus, gloi.es, maps, J
funds and is situated in a plentiful and agreiable pai col tne t
5 ® country ; nothing teems wanting to n»ke it rank Miongthe i
50 mofl uleful (ero>ndrics in this part of the buta fuuable a
Cb mavt in aidreffid to the Obfciber, in <Ws-
Anne, in the neigh#>rhood of the Academy, or » Jso«or J
MiariH L Havnie, No. Bj, i-orth Third-street, Fhila,
00 delphia, or to the Printer hareof. pz£K , EL „ AYNIEf
January »0. / Feb. 7 . taiclßw_
oo Davis's Law Book-store
00 . No. 313, HIGH-STREET
09 GEORGE DAVIS announces to hit pfofeflional "lenaa,
o® and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the ;
Union, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arrang
-00 ed, and ready for Sale, from a lingle volume to an entire V
—■ brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding ow
at prices, which for several years pail have in so diliinguilhed a
manner recommended them to notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the tnsft extenlive collcc
:'S tion cf the latest English and Iriffi Editions ever inrpoitcd
aW into this country, atcpeblilhed, and will be delivered giaws
on application .
fh s Orders addrtlfed to G. D. in writing from any Cilta.ipe
ice -Qiali be pun£lually attended to.
for A number of T.RUNKS for Sale,
also, to- bc J
the convenient LOFT, near Market Street Wharf.
ov.B. tuAf 3 » s
md ~~~\
By Authoraty.
! n ,", Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
;tee Sold by It/IILIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
the SoutlT Secondflreet.
in SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
°" For raising Sixty Thcufand Dollars, agreeably to a Aft of j
the Legislature o N f Fennfyivasia, passed during the )a:t
97 > leflion, for building a Stone Bridge over
the SchuyHuJl, at the Borough of Reading, in the .County of
the Berks. * Dollari.
i Prixe of 20,000 Dullara - 20,000
1 <io. of do. - • 10,000
3 do. of 5,000 do,. 15,000
do, of 2,000 do. - .• 8,000
20 do. of do. - 20,000
39 do. of 500 do. - - *9ioO&
80 do. of 200 do. ... i6,0c0
200 do. of 100 do. ... JiO t OOQ
300 do, of 50 do. - -
1 do< of 500 do. to be paid the poflef- £ 0Q
■ for f the firlfc drawn no< )
c do. of S,ooo do. to be paid pofledors, >
rf ol the fire Tail drawn (t«s} ' s '°
- 441,000
.010,054 ?rizea 300,000
, 19J946 Blanks
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars ,
Ail Prizes shall be paid fifteen days after the dra wing is
finifhed, updn the demand of a pofLflor of a
ana licket, fubjeft to a deduftion of twenty per pent. Hie
ous ' will commence as foorwis the Tickets are dHpofed
has or p er haps ioonei. of which public notice will be given.
ll lc " Philip Miller, Peter Ktrjhner, William
large joffpb Hiejler, James Diemer, Thomas DtwJas,
r the Jame r May y John Otto y John Keim, Daniel GrOfijj s
*P lls Sebajlian Miller, Commissioners.
1 ! Reading, May the 9th, 1^796.
fbe Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. to be hadxat the
' nt j above office, where the earlicft inlormation of the draw
wers *- n S t^ie No. 2, and Patterfon Lottery's,
Uj n are received, and checkbooks for examination and regif
imal taring are kept.'
imti- Tickets in the Lottery t© be bad ?it Mr, Sheri
dan's Race-street* John Hay, North Tfrird-.ftreet an j
fe is Swryer's, German Town,
med January 26 aawtf
"° n n ," t Lancajier, Harrifburgh, Carlt/le, Sbip
r of penfburv and Sunbury
S T AGE S.
that The public are requcfted to take notfee, that the part
hto ncrfhip whif'h has for some time fuMfted between Mathi
n to as S]ough.of Lancaster, and William Gper, is now diifol
effes, v .-(l, but, not as M. Slough ,inflnuat(t t,o the public
Such v ,'ithous jta': caul'e ;as will more fully appear by a letter
P e * 011 the fubjeiit from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the
s " 29th p'ecember last. a recit?l of which is sot now deemed
tai'e nccc flary. Any gentleman who wilhes to be raore cir
ooort cun, da nt ' a liy inf.rmedxif the merits of .thisubufmefs, by
applying to W. Cseer may have the perusal ef M.
sand lettvr, and then can be at full liberty to determine whe
ther or not W. Geer is not perfetftly juftifiabie in attach
ing himfelf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenfburg,
pr any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the public
were pleased to confer on the firft effort in this bnimefs,
William Geer, in conjunction with'Mcors. Reily, Weed
'enn- and Witmer, is determined to prosecute and carry it on,
from w ith every care, attention and difyatch that a zeal to a
j one bilge the public can poflibiy exert.
vhich The above company, who are amply provided with
miles carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to render the
oufes, passage fafe and commodious, inform those who wilb to
toufe, patronize and encourage the undertaking, that they ran
5,; by take their feats at George Weed's, the sign of the White
Horse, Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to I.ancaflctr, Harrifbarg, Cariifle
inftfl- and Shippenfmirg The fare as imherto eftabiilheo.
o«gh, For the further accommodation, of the public, a Stage
jpper will dart every Wednesday from the house of Samuel
fnong Elder, Lb Harrifburg, arrive at Sunbury in Northumber
-1 ma- land county, every Thursday, and raturn from the.ee and
arrive at Harrifbjurg every Saturday, so that paffengcrs
whjre destined for Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on
given Mondays. r
i S O WILLIAM GEER.
v Lancaflcr, Jan. 47, 1797.
N. B. This Line of Stages starts from the house ol
lE. Wi!iiam Ferree, in Lancaster, on every Tuesday and Sa
turday morning at 6 o'clock, proceeding to the westward;
and from the house of Mr. Samuel Eider in Harnftjurg
evecy Wednesday morning, on the fame evening arrives
IS, at Patrick Cechran sin Snippenlburg, and returns,
:et. thence on every Thursday : performing! the fame routine
ut daily as ill its tour from Philadelphia, mwf
> 20 .Dollars Reward; !
, ' O til away from the Subscriber, living in St. George.
\ K burred, Needle county, fnear to.Port tcnn)
r Rate of oeUwarc, a N£GRO MAN named JACOB, born la
in this ft ace. He is a fcort, w.ltmydc fellow, about S £
. feet 4 inches high ; abd had on whei.Be went away a> o- V
, liv*-eolored coattee, of home-mad* clot , d Dc
■ white flannel all through, ap.d white mewl button. _, an old £
white-colored cloth, the fc.rt o which
,f he cut off, to make it into a round one ; his breeches are
d of a cloth, very old, and patched in a number
of places white, very coarse, yarn {lockings ; one pair U
of coarse fcoes, mach worn; and a pair of ball-worn, Urg,
» black-grained Jhoes, bound round with black silk ferret
inr, and lined under the buckle with white linen : atfo a Capt
' d half-worn fur hat, very high in the crow«, wbieli f-ipers
th off ill form of a fuear-loaf, very narrow in the brim and worj
* is bound with black silk ferreting. He alio took with h.m beUs
" » Ion? blu-.jioat, liocd *ll through with blue fca.iooi. of well
the-fanic Loliwv'i eo;lper, fcelled buttons with three
men
" the. fume fort on each cuff ; a ydlijw-cplorcd, elastic, old
, 0 furtout coat. Said Jaco» is remarkably iond oi
ly o;i the violin, and took one with h.m; the oaU oiE which
ZI,, of home-made, lead colored cloth, bo« (! d with red iei-
I rating. Whoever Ruraway, and 10. g
he him fn any of the goals m this ft ate, so that his mailer
bt may get lum again, !ha)l receive tjie above Reward, an<T j
>le lU readable charges paid by pAR ,, EU . on ,
•ft- N. B. Said Jacob has formerly lived with ftVff. win.
:or R*., - A nA Thomas Robinson. February »» wpT4t oft
!a. -r —— fire
For Sale, A btr
By George Defchamps, No. gi,
NORTH SI XTH- STREET, lane
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and hr.lf barrels now
ds, Ditto Herring and Mackarei. ' the,
'be Smoaked Marring jn barrels and kegs jn>o
"P.- Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or firigle oae
' " Dry Cednih, feon one to fittv kei.tals nc fj
Fine and coarse Salt ■ , _ Jam
Nov ? -Scotia and French Flatter of Parn, m the stone K r,
ur and ground, for manure and stucco-work gie,
t?d December i tthfrl__ 11
THE SUBSCRIBER -
nfc I WISHES to afcerrain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade a Stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer, I' 0
! who quitted Ireland in 1783, or i;" 4) and'came m'o
'this Country, ('tis supposed to Philadelphia) about .
j four years fwee, be ifving or dead. As this intelh
. 1 genceis of the highest jmnprtanee, it -will be thankful-
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS, I
i ' Ho- 313. High-fire,n hat
December 31. w & 1 i m
54, For Sale, £•
By th« Subferibers—lll PENN-STREET, '
l ?fj 65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle. Sai
™" s WILLtNGS & FRANCIS. ;
at °,. Nov. 30 !
. .... - ■ P.
000 f ' !' - '
™ City of Washington. T>
000 Qchime of the Lottery, No. 11, for the improvement 1
oou i_) of the Federal City. £e '
s oti A magnificent ) io,oqo dollars, &) :
c ' : -° ? r
1 ditto 15,000 et cast. 15,000 40,0ee
v 0 1 ditto 15,000 & cafti 15,000 30,000 ""
s°o j ditto 10,000 & ealh 10,000 ao,vuo
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 io,of>o '
000 1 ditto 5,000 & ealh 5,000 10,000 , ra
000 1 cafe prize of <o,oao j e j
000 10 MO' 1,000 - r i'CyQ&i
jio do. 500 - - io,eoo
f5cQ - 00 do, ioo - - lo,oop c ;fj
' ~; s 300 do. 50 - - he
nate 4°° 0 ' 15 " " 10,000 rat
fie i,QOu do. iia - jo,ooa _
..fed -15,003 do. -to t fir!
ven. ■ . Scj
1 im,\ i6,73J> Prize..
Jas, li-M} Blinks.
u/> - 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollar., 400,000 p ''
t j ie N. B. To favour those M'ho may take a quantity of
_ iw Tickets, the prize of 40, poo dollars will be the last drawn
r , ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one': g 0
And approved notes, securing payment in either money j v
"" or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will be received foi | ot]
er j_ any number not leis than 30 tickets.
and Lottery will afford an elegant specimen ef the pri-
vate buildings to be ereitedjn the Ctty of Wafliington—-
[£ j- Two beautiful designs are already fcleited for the entire ex ]
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawiiigs j- t j (
it ispropoled to eredl two centreandfourcorwer baildiiigs, v jj
Hp- as soon as pofiiblc after this lottery is,'fold, and to convey ji t
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in j ■
the manner deferibed it} the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nettdeduftiou of five per cent, will be made to defray j t .
3art- the neceffiiy expenses of 'priming, the surplus
athi- will be made a part of the fuijdintended for the
fTal- Uaiverfity, to be creeled wit'uin the city of ''
iblic The real fecurit.es given for the payment of the Prizes,
ettsr are held by the president and two Dire£lors of the Bank
the of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
■med mount of the lattery. f
cir- SAMUEL BLODGET. V
■> by ,§» Tickets may be had-at the Bank of Colsnlhia ;of 7
i«h's JamesV/eft &Co. Baltimore; of Peter Oilman, Boston : »e
vhe- of John Hopkins, Rkhroend ; Richard Wells Ai
:ach- Cooper's Ferry. eo 1®
the -1
lur s. The Subscriber ' or
üblk 1 Public, that he maoufafturcs and has on
1 hajid for sale, a very gcnerjl afforiment
VcVd Saddles, Bridles, Harness and Trunks, %
t on, ufujl, b IRE BUCKt'rS an excellent quality y;
:o ,0- 3,1 which he will dUoole of on moderate terms ac No* oi
ChefnvtiUeet, Hiiladelphia. y(
>vith WILLIAM JONES.
r the fcbrueiy 17 fm&w 3 w cv
to —r ll v. 11 ', 1 ■ - • Vj
Lottery and Broker's Office, c<
r.day South SkcondSSTREEtr t j
irlifle 'T'ICKEi'S ir. the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sale—a
J. Check Book for erartunation—and prizes paid in
Stage t^e ' ate lottery.
unuel Check Books kept for examination and registering, for
nber- tll ' City of Waflnngton, No. a, »ad Pattefon Lotteries, ..
c and k°th of which are now drawing—information where 1
ngcrs
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn j
id on tickets. A lift of all tfce prizes in the late New-
Port Lqjig-Wharf, Hotel and Public for .
examination. J*
Ihe fulfcriber solicits tlje application of the public
jfe of J; nd !" s friends # who to purchaie or fell Bank Stock,
d Sa- Certificates, Bills of Exchange or sotes, Houses, Lands,
urard- c * or obtain money on deposit of property,
ibure *** Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
rrives f ? le n at Ten Dollars each, which will be drawn early in 1
theS P"»g. ]
'"tine Wrn. Blackburn.
iwf Philadelphia, January a 6, .797. ir.th
FOR SALE,
At Whitesides's TEA-Warehouse,
A's. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial f . fHyfon Skin.'
Hyson, > Frefii TcA. < Souchong,
Young Hyson, j C.Bohea
Dec. 9. 3tawjjm,
E P HRA IM C L JJTX,
CLOCK & watch MAKER,
Hath just rcceivsd by the Fame, from London,
and Alexander Hamilton, iVom Liverpool, a
large supply of
Gold, Gilt, and Silver Watches ;
Gapt and Jewel'd, c.ipt and seconds ditto ; spring Clock«
clock movements, tight day and -30 hour brass, forged
work, and flit pinions; clock and watch springs ; clock
bells and chima ditto ; gold, gilt and Giver Pendants: at
well as other tools, files and materials, too tedious t«
mention.
Ladies' Steel & Gilt Chains,
With or without hooks ; l'eals, keys and trinkets.
February 17 tth&'flf
! To the Benevolent.
f •" Pubfcriber having rented that well known tav
1. ern ho'.ife, cn Silver Spring, Cumberland county,
on the great load leading t'roui Philadelphia to Fort Pitt
s which he had completely furniflied for the accommodation
of travellers, but which unfortunately, by accident caught
fire about 11 o'clock .yi the morning, the 3d of Novem- .
n her last, and in the spare of < ne hour was totally coni'um
ed with all the furniture, wearing apparel, stores of li
quou, &c. to a very Isrgftamount, attended with theme
lan'chply fofs of a daughter 'about twelve years of age,
; who uply lurvivad a few hou» alter the fire ; ai
fo disabled ; and others of his family mijch hi*; he it
now reduced to atrunhappy and deftiwe fitua io» h«
therefore begs leavt to. solicit forae relief from a gen'erout
public. I'he following gentlemen .'.re pleafei} to undertake
the trouble to solicit and receive fuhfcnotioiis for his be
nefit : vis. Ssmvj»! Ricliai'det, Merchant*.' Coffec-Houfe }
James Thomplon, Indian
* Keys, in Fourlhritreet, and Jofcfe Dunwoody, hyread Ea
gle, High-flreet DAV'D BRtGGS.
Philadelphia, February 14 tthfciiMj
+++ Tlie oiher Primers are rcqu*fled to niibli p n V above.
) PROPDSALb,, ' ' ,
■, For .carrying the Mails of the United
0 ' States,
On the following Pujl Rtuds, will he reetived until K
1- thfjirjl drx of March itex{\ i:!u/ivs ■
t. From CharlcSuii, S. C. by Jackionh;;ro'and Coofa
hatchy, to Savannah, twice a wcejt. Receive the Jail
at Charlafton eveiv Tueldjy »sd Friday by (i> P* M. and
deliver it ft Savannah the next Friday and Monday, by 8
A.M. Stturnaijr, receive the Ma'l atSiyajinah eV r y
Saturday, by 6, H.M. andWednefchy by 6, A. M. and
deliver it At Charleftop the next t'uefday., and Friday
by noon.
P-otijjl' for thh route "jjilt he yrpeivfd by tht ptjl-majk) at
Savan»iab.
a. r ro)H Coofahatchy to Beaufort once a week—
Receive the mail ;it Cooiahatchy every Thursday by 6,
?. m. aud deliver it at Ceaufcrt by'ntjon on Friday. Re
turning, leave Beaufort every Fridayby 3, p. M.and'arrive
at Coofahiutehy 011 Saturday by S, a. 11.
Propofajs for carrying the mail pnjhis route will be r»-
ceived by the po'l-mafter at Beaufort.
Npte I. The Post-master General may alter the times
for the arr;yal and departure of the mails at any time du
ring the continuance of the cpiitra&s, he previeufly ftipu-
lating an adequate compenfatyon for any extra espence
that may be occafioiied thereby.
Note i. For every hours delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in arriving after the times prefo iV.ed l>j con- )
traiS, the contractor (hall forfeit yne dollar, and if the
delay cuiiinuc until the departure of any depending mail
ai\ addifroiitrt-lailetiurc .i„nMTr. ili-ll bf Pn-iimA- -
Npte Shonld any per Con. makin,: proposals oefire an
alteration of the times of ai*rival and ,departurc aliove lpe
cified, Lj must (cace the alteration deured f«d the price
he will carry the mail'for with and without Inch alte
ration.
Note 4. The contrails are te be in operation on the
firft day of April next and to continue until the 30th of
September iij the vearißoo.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Poji Mafhr Genera!.
General Pofl Office, >
Philadelphia, Jan. 13,179;.)
"oil. lb. 2SW&W.
of This Day is Publift.eci,
' n BY JUff- Dobfor,, Carey, Campbell, 11ic.% 5..3 ibe other
price One Dollar and twen v-fivc cents,
e y Iv printed on wove paper t and liot-prclfed, by John Thoaip-
Ton,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
fl " The CONSTITUTIONS of ih- fvera! States,
.With each other,"aad vvjth that of ti»e Unstod States:
r ' exhibiting in Tables, die promitaclit features of Con»
£ s ftitWioiij and ciafllug toother their most important pr.o-
? s ' vlHols, under tJic several lieads of adti;iniftration ; "*•> ith
Nptes and Observations,. By William Smith, «f South-
Carolina. ,L L. p', and member of the Congress of the
Y' United S?4ies. Dedicated to the People of the United
ay States.
, B. ,A ,fevv Copies printed .■ on an inferior paper,^at
la, w - 111 " f
; 5> j : , : Finn's A L % E %
A very Valuable Eitate,
CALSLED TWI TTEN HA M, fitusre in th«
townlhip of Upper Derby, andcountyof Oelaware,
of 7 1-2 miles from Philadelphia, and half > miie from tne
,n . new Weflern road icontaining a 3O acres of exctuent land,
lis .45 of which are good watered meadow, </o of prime'
Und, and the reft arable of thrf fir 3 quality. 1 here are
on the twe story bricl; house, v/ith 4 rooms
©n a Hoop, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-ptc
ps excellent water in front; a large frame ba;n, stable* 1
on And other coi)venient huildings; a fmoke-houic ant Uone,
fprine-houi.'; two orchards, and one pe.u:.i-
S, cs. The fields are all in clever, except those im...£--'.atcly
itv under'tillage, and are so laid out astohave the
88 of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.' . . .
The situation is pleasant and healthy, ;ana from me higli .
cultivation of theland, the good neigMionrhoott, ar.d tb%
vicinity to the city,.it is very fuitabw tor a gentleman.»
country feat.
The foregoing is part o< the estate ol Jacob Harm;*!,
deceased, and atfered forfale hy
-a Mordecai Lewis,
ln > ©a. 31. law Surviving Executor
, for • AL t. PERSONS
1CS ' TNDEBTED to the Estate of the late Dxvm Kr.NMEDr
iere I Esquire, cither by note, bill, bond, book account, or
Wn othenvife, are requested to make immediate payment M
7" the fubieribers, without del ly, and all per lons having any
lor just demands again ft said Estate, are deiired to exlubit tb«
fame for adiHftmeßt. ,
bl , lc ANN KENNEDY J Adm x.
FRANCIS JOHNSTON ) Adm'r.
fld8 ' Philadelphia, February 8 wßw
for *-■ 1 lJUwiii
r w PRINTED BY JOHN FEN NO.
—No. 119 —
h CH E U T-S T&E kTe