of tfje anb Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
' Number 1624.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For D R r GOODS.
f Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. 56,
Monday) » ( r ° uth Fr °nt-ftrcct,
1 Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
C. South Front-fteeet.
f Forenoon—John Coßnetly, Old City
fueftlay< t u^i°n > No. 73 fout'h Front-street.
' J Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C iß.t High-street.
Wedjtefiaj \ Afternoon—Peter Benfon, No. 74
I south Third-ftrcet.
Thurfdav J Forenoon—Edward Fox.
I Afternoon—John Connelly.
Friday ? Forenoon—William Shimon.
5 Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
N u T I C E.
rHE partnership between John Instone and
James Bacon, under the firm of Inflone and
Bacon, is tliis day diffblved by mutual consent.—*■
All persons who ffcend indebted to fa d firm arc
requeued to make immediate payment of their
refpe&ive accounts, tojorf:* Skyrim, on Landen
burger's wharf, who is duly authorised to receive i
the lame ; and all persons having any a
gainfl the said firm, are desired to bring in their
accounts immediately to him for fettlemcnt.
John InftonCf
'James Bacon.
November js, eodtf
Musical Infirument Manufactory,
167, Arch-flreet.
TO THE LOVERS OP HARMONY.
HARPER,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he has
now read> for sale, a few of his new invented,
and much admired ftdebrwrd Piaoo Fortes,-wHti
Pedals, patent swell, fonopahant and French harp
it op, which for fenllbility of touch, brilliancy el
tone, simplicity and durability of conftrudion, the
fnperiority of which,he flatters himfelf, a single tri
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As they
are manufactured under his immediate infpeftion,
of the vfry be*, seasoned materials, he can fell 011
reasonable terms for Cash. Inftrumants repaired,
tuned, &c.
N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in ex
change for new.
November 18. lawimo.
' FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Also, a general assortment of Tools,
Eiles and Materials, coafifting of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and Urge work ; Bells, clock aad watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glasses, Punice Stone, Emery,
Rotctn Stone, Cat Gut; bench, (land and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals,K.eys, &c. &c.
* % * Apprentices Wanted.
November 3. f&tutf
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in <whote and half tierces
Bout deaux Brandy
TeneriJJe (Vine
Molaffet
' Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Rax en] Duck and trie bogjbead of paint
Irufhes.
N. Is? J. Frazer.
No. 95, Sontb Front Street.
Nov. 7. x dim
ROSS SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COT TON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, > RUM.
1 and Bengal j
300 calks RICE, snd
A parcel of Ihip building RED CEDAR.
Oft. 17. J
Samuel & Miers Fisher,
| ARE NOW OPENING, 1
At their Wareljoufe, No. a;y Dock Street, a freih
assortment of Woolen and other goods, suitable to
the season, received by the late arrivals from Eng
land.
Tien have also for Salt,
Lisbon
Port Wines, J ,
Assorted queen's ware in crates, &c.
10th mo'- 23d. dlW3taw3w,
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL prefenn his
rr.oft refpe.itful compliments to his form
er employers and the citizeni in general, and re
turns his mpft igrateful thanks, for the very
bountiful encouragemeut he has expetiencert for
these twenty-five years pad, takes this opportu
nity of informing them, that his school will be
open'd on Wednesday the 23d inllant, at his
Elegant Ball Room,
in South Fourth-Street, between Chefnut and
Walr.ut-ftreets. To begin at 10 in the morning
-for young ladies, and i in the evening for young
gentlemen.
ss° Praiflifing Balls willco*imence on Tuef
,<lay, 6th December, and be every
"Tuefilay, during the season.
Nov. 17. ' a:\wtf.
" For Sale by the Subscriber,
White Plattillas
Brown HolUnds
White Sheetings
Kowlafies .
Silesia bordered Handkerchiefs
Striped Siimoufes
Black Ribbons, No. 3 and 4
.GUfs Tumblers, and Looking Glafles, in
in cases, &c. &c.
George Pennock.
November 6. eodjw
FOR SALE,
A Team of five excellent Horses,
with a Waggon and Gears. The Horses are all
Voung, ft'ong, true to the draught, and capable
ijf hiuling as great a weight as most in the coun
try. The Waggon and Gears are strong, and
in good order. Apply to ROBERT GREEN,
Weft Town, Chtiter county, o-.<:o
Thomas Fijher,
No. 141, S- Second Street, Philadelphia
41 roo. a, ccd^w.
PHILADELPHIA:
FOR LONDON,
mW! L 1 AM PENN,
-'iSSK. James Josiah, Maftcr.
' ' s now taking on board her cargo, and
will fail in all next week. Fot freight or passage
apply to the captain or to
Jejfe Robert Wain.
von 1T . $
Five years old Madeira Wine,
OF the very firft quality, in pipe?, hhd«. and
quarter calks, jult landc - from the Ihiji Edward,
from Madeira, and for sole hy
JOHN CRAIG,
No. 12, Dock-street.
JVHO HAS FOR CHARTER,
CHARLOTTE,
Burthen about liqo barrels,
!-< j u fl hove down and put in com
plete order. and new read; to receive a cargo.
A'fn, F.r SALE or CHARTER,
JOS EP H U S,
- Burthen about 1800 barrels.
nmember (. ,^awtf.
Wanted to Charter,
To one port in Hifpaniola and back
faft failing Veflel, of the bur
then of or 700 barrels. For terms, apply to
Benjamin Morgan, No. no, South Front dreet,'
or to ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, South Wharves.
nvaember 10. §
Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR BALE,
A; their Stoees oo Wakiut street WhjuT,
HavanhahSugars, whiteandbrown
35 hhds Jamaica do.
3000 pieces of broad Nankeens
Imperial Tea,in quartersand eighths of chests
Quicksilver in tubs
Madeira Wine in pipes and hogsheads
TenerifFe Wine in pipes
Old ted Port Wme in hogsheads
Sail Canvass, afTorted, No. I to 8
8 cases of Manchester Goods, confiding of Dimities,
Muflinets, Ginghams,Thickfctts, Corduroys, &c.
200 crates Queens' War*, assorted
Nails, assorted
Black quart Bottles
Yellow Ocre in calks
A quantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, &c.
100 quarter calks Gun Ppwder
7bey ba*c alfofor SALE or CHARTER,
HAMBURG PACKET,
Burther 310 tons, coppered to
the bends, and comp'etely fitted.
TheJbip MOLLT, burthen 340 ton», a
good velfel, and completely fitted. - ,
The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
rels, may be ready tor stain a few days.
The whole of the above vcflels to be seen at
Walnut street Wharf. § wov. IC.
For bale or Ch trter,
GOOD HOPE,
4,(2? *;sjl Will carry abeut iaoo barrels,
is ready to take in a cargo. For terms
Pragers & Co.
No. 151, south Second-street.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and I'eneriffe wine.
November 7. dtf.
' '
For Hamburgh.
The Ship
WILMINGTON,
Captain Hilman ;
A Staunch, faft failing, Phi-
L\. ladelphia built vessel, of
five oak and cedar, is now in complete order, and
will fail with all pofTible speed, having great part of
her cargo already engaged. For freight or pas
sage (having excellent accommodations) apply to
the taptain on board, op to
Sunimerl & Brown.
Who have on hand,
Gonaives Cotton, Sugar, Mo
biles, and a few theufand weight of excellent Cor
dage; including several Cables of 8$ <c 11 inches,
november 3. tuth&ntf
For London,
THE SHIP
Daniel M'Pherfon, Majler.
TO fail with all convenient speed—a confidera
blc part of her cargo being already engaged.
Fot terms of Freight or PafTage, apply to
Rofs & Simfon.
o<ft. 27. 4
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By Ihip Edward, from Madeira, and Betsey and
Peggy, from Oporto, in Pipes and Hogsheads,
For sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALE,
ypSE AMI TT,
ifSpySs Four thousand barrels burthen,
«Zsc*=&£ssS=K*Sin excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo—about three years old.
likewise,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 barrels, ready also to receive a car
go—and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Just landed from th(*above vessel* at South flrett
wharf. eoim. Nov. 1.
For Charter,
THE SHIP
John Bulkley,
Rste-AjjSV. Samuel Volaris, "Majler.
"J vessel i» built of liveoalc
> and cedar, of ab< ut 3000
barrels burthen, and ready to receive cn board a
cargo.
'JejTc & Robert Wain.
Oil. 31. . §
By John Fewno, N<" 119 Chefnut Street.
For Londonderry,
THE ER.IGANTINE
og£ suk kr,
j ;>ji WluiiM Wihttin, Mailer.
,-t frri: ■ ' 'vin: \ ffeJ, a'»,ut two
hundred 'one, fa, f.ill with ait convenient fprcci, a
preatjpart of her cargo engaged—now lying at
Willing and Francis's wharf. For freight or pas
sage, apply'tothe capta ; n, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
Landtitbergir*s -wharf.
Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel of about three ton 9.
not! *B. §
.For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Salty Butler,
Captain Chis holm,
A new vessel, with excellent
accommodations for palTengcrs—
Sails on the leth of December For Freight or
Paflaje, apply t» ROSS Es* SIMSON.
IVLt have tt dispose of,
A fma'l invoice of GLAUBE& SALTS
INDIGO, and a parrel of HOLLY WOOD.
no*vcmber JB. i
£or Hamburgh,
JC* The Brig MARY,
Pstsk York, matter,
f Lying at RuflcTs wharf, near Pine
:} '(}.ftrert, is now ready to take in a
Cargo, and will fail in t«n days.
For Frrijht, er Passage, apply t»
GURNEY & SMITH.
November 16. dtf
Rundle & Leech,
Have joll received, anj h.-e Sr Sule, at n*.
Walnut ftrctt,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT
Do. Hell house CO A LS
Queens' WARE in, cases, assorted
Bortrdeaux 3RANDY of an excellent quality
Do. CLARET in cases, do.
THFV ' AVE ALSO
ggJffS' For SALE or CHARTER,
illll P EGG Y,
Burthen 225 tons, in excellent condition, and
may be font to sea with little expcnceor delay.
LIKEWISE,
JfJßlfek WILLIAM,
jßfwßurthen aoi tons,
november 16. $
For Sale or Charter,
The £af. Tailing brig
Brothers,
ilßfiinTßir Lying at Gurling's wharf,
an excellent lingle dcck'd vefTtl, burthen about
1600 barrels—not twelve months old, and in
compleat order. For term* apply to the matter
on board, or to
Joftph Anthtny & Co.
Nov. diw.
For Liverpool,
v"j*£. The Ship
jJsmfc CLOTHIER,
NathanielD. Gardner, majler,
\ AYTILL fail about the 15th
W inft. For freight or pas
sage.apply to th* Captain, at Vanuxem's wharf,
or to JAMES OLDDEN,
nov. dtf No 41, N Front-street.
DANCING.
MR. £s* Mrs. B T R NE,
Of the New i heatre,
RESPECTFULLY inform tht Ladie<*nd Gen
tlemen of Philadelphia, that Mr. Byrne's
Academy will comm.nce on the ift, and ( Mrs.
Byrxe's on the id of December next,
novembcr 20.
L~O S T,
Joseph Milnor's Draft, payable
to the fubferiber or order, for Four Hundred and
Twenty Bolls r s, 15 Cents, dated Novjin'oer 15th,
1797, at Sixty Days after Date, on Robison and
Paul, with tbeir acceptance If found, a reason
able reward will be paid an delivery.
George Petinocl.
November ao. 4t
James Richard Smith,
TAKE the liberty «f informing their friends
and the public, that they have removed their
store to No. 54, Souti Prtntjfrrrl, next d«or to Ed
ward Fox'j Au&ion Room, where they have at
this time for fale.alarge and general alfortment of
European £s° Eajl India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
William Penn, &c. &c.
Q<?t. 17. ft
Samuel Pleafants tsf Sons,
No. 74, Stitth Second-Jlreel,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on
reasonable terms. OA 17. —4w
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a geaerous
rent will be given ; to be taken for a year, or on
more for a longer term. Inquireaf tb« Printer.
OA. 17. ants '
All Persons,
INDEBTED to the Ellate of Joseph John
son, of Germantown, in the county of Phi
ladelphia, deceased, are desired to make imme
diate payment, and those who have any demands
.igainft laid estate, are desired to bring forward
their accounts to either of the fubfsribers.
ELIZABETH JOHNSON,")
JOHN JOfiNSON, Jun. > Adminifir's.
JOHN JOHNSON, )
Germantown, Joth mo. 17th, 1797-
oa. 3r. fat.
All Persons who are indebted to
the-eftate of William Hevsham, fen o; Phila
delphia, deceased, are requeued to make speedy
payment; and those who have any demands a
gainll said estate, will please to prcfent them, pro
perly atrcfted, to the fubferibers.
William Hcyfham, ~l
Robert Hcyjkam. >• Executors.
Francis Bowes Say re, J
6, SUW4W
WEDNESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 22, 1797
FOR\SALE—'jy the Subscribers,
An elegant assortment of Madrafs
HANUKF.aCHIF.FS, by the bale.
WILLINGS b" FRANCIS,
nov T - § Penn»tfr«?of.
Yellow Fever and Pestilential
Diseases.
THIS DAYtS PUBLISHED, in one vol. o<ftavo.
By William Young, Boohfeller,
No. 3Second Itrect, the corner of Chefnut Ureet,
(Price, in boards 8711 Cents)
Neatly printed on fine 'American wove medium
Paper,
A V lEW
Of the Science of Life ;•
On the principles established in th« elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BROWN, M. D.
With an attempt to correit some important er
rors of that work, and cases in illustration, chief
ly feleited from the records of their pradtice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br JVilliam Yates £3* Chas. Ma.c-leaw.
To which i» subjoined, a Treatise on the a>3ion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of diftafes of indiredl debility
AndadifTertalion onthefources of fipidemicand.
Peftilentialdifeafes; in whichisattemptedtoprove
by a numerous induction of fadts, ne
ver arile from contagion, bnt are always pro jli
ced by certain Hates, or certain vicissitudes of
the atmosphere, by Charles MACLgAN, of
Calcutta,
nov. zr.
To be Sold,
A aluable Plantation,
OF upwards of One Hundred Acres of Land,
well watered, in a heilthy situation, about
seven miles from this City ; the buildings may be
made to accommodate a large family, at a mode
rate expense, and poflcfiion had in a few weeks.
Part «f the purchafe-m»ney being paid, a reafon
abie credit will be allowed for the remainder.
Enquire of the Printer,
november 3 mwftf
~ NOTICE.
AI.L persons concerned are hereby notified,
that the fuhferiber intends to apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned loft certificates of
Stock in the Bank of the United L States—He for.,
warded them under caver of a letter addrefTed to
John Anfley,of London, by the ftip Bacchus, capt.
George, which left this port in June last for Lon
don. But that (hip having been captured on her
paflage and fentto France, the above letter and m
clofure have failed iu their deftinatiou.
Three certificates, viz.
Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for
four shares, dated January 1 ft, 1797, and
iiTued in the name of Henry Grace, of Tot
tenham Highcrofs, Great Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia, november 8. 2aw6\V
Notice to Creditors.
WHEREAS Jofiah W. Gibbs and William
Gibbr, did on the 9th day of June lail, as
sign to the fubferibers, all their property for the
benefit of their creditors, this is to gjve notice
to all the creditors of the above firm, tha' all j
their books, as well as the statement of their J
concerns, are lodged with John D. Blanchard, '
Tv'o. 6, South Third Street, for their infpe&ion, 1
and also the discharge which is to he signed by
atVthefe creditors who, wish to receive the bene
fit of fjid alignment.
All persons indebted to the said firm, are here
by notified to pay their refpeflive debts to the
slid John D. Blanchard, who is fully authorized
to receive and fettle all their accounts.
JOHN D. BLANCHARD.
JAMES VANUXEM.
A. BUTLER.
Nov. Ij. mwftf.
0 Gentlemen who intend, /pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114, cornor
of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. Qi9.. a? —dtf
Landing this day,
From on board the schooner Two Friends, Dan
, lei Crawley, Master,
!° nines' and ( Jamaica RUM,
1 a pipes 3 J »
FOR SALE BY
George Latimer & Son.
uovember 9. j
JuJl Published, and now Selling,
By BENJAMIN DA VIES,
At his Book-Stors, No 68, High-Street,
The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AND
ANNUAL REG ISTERfortbtUNIT ED STATES
FOR TK! YIA* 1798 :
Containing complete and corre& lifts of the Execu
tive, I cgiflative and Judiciary
DEPARTMENTS of GOVERNMENT,
And a variety of ufeful tables, necefTary to be
known in every State of th« Union.
Embellijhed xvitb two bandfomc Engravings,
One of which is depiitive cf a melancholy scene
that occurred during the American war.
oa. 18.
Just published,
And to be fold at the Bcokftores of H. & P.
Rice, No. 50, Market-street j J. Ormrod,
No. 41, Chefnut-flreet, and W. Young,
corner of Chefnut and Second-ftr»ets,
An accurate System of Surveying;
IN WHICH tS CONT A IN fe'D,
I. Decimal fra&ionsj in a plain, coucife,
and eal'y manner.
a. The extraction of the fquareroot.
3. PJais trigonometry, rectangular aod ob
lique.
4. An exa<9t method to ciff up the contents
ef lands.
5. Field surveying.
The whole being performed without the use
of scale and compalles, on a table sf logarithms.
In which is given some account of the variation
of the needle, and the canfes of its Sttradlion;
Hy SAMUEL MOORE.
AuguU 1. :aw
FOR SALE, sr
Joseph Anthony Sff Co.
No. 5, Chcfaut Street,
A cargo of choice Bcurdeauxßraady, ift and id
proof, jtift lanJed
"Jjo bales of Bourbon cotton of a kperior tiuaKfi
9 Surat, do ,io
A rpftititity of heavy black pepper in bale.
Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality
High proof Jamaica Ipirits
OKI London particular Madeira wine In pip£s &
do. market do q r . ca&s.
New England rum in hogsheads
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret in cafjs
Spermaceti candles aniftrain'd oil
Prime Boston beef
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barfffc
D®. Herring in do do
Best Boston Mackarel in barrels of the fall fare.
New-England t w l : ««n
A few tons of Ruflia cordage
Rufiia feather beds
Clover an J Timothy feed in ;»lks
Long whale-bone
No. i, 2, and 3, Bodon fail duck
A few che/ls firtt quality Hyforr tea
Carolina rice is whole and halt tierces and
An invoice of Dutch hollow gjafs ware.
N 'Vembor 8. ' ' d lw .
For Sale, by the Package^
For cash, or good notes at sixty or ninety day*,
viz.
Book and Jaconfet Muslins plain ")
stripes, and Checks |
do. do. Tamboured Aflbrtfd in
do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & | P»ckage«.
gentlemen's ntck do. J
Jaconet chintz muslin for home and the Weft
Indi* market, Pullicote and linen handkerchiefs,
for do. do printed do.do. common purple and
chintz (hawls.
The abovi goods entitled to drawback on ex
portation. Also a. few scotch cambricks and an
aflortment of muslin by the piece.
The whole of the above being a consignment
from the manufa&urers in Britain.
To be seen at William Blackburn's
Office, No. 64, South Second Street.
Nov. 6. aawtf.
FOR SALE, \
BY THE sUßicKHtu, No. si, Penn-flreet,^
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Comftjling of
Baftas, of various qualities & prices
Coflaes Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Guzz y do. /
Humhums Charconna Dorta
Blue Cloth Tanjibi
Chintz and Calicess Mulmula >
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges Pataa Hhkfs.
Ginghams Mulmul do.
Guzzenai Bandannoes
Gurraht Siflerfoy
Piniafcoei Choppa Romals
Salgatchya Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Persians of variouseojont)
Mock Pulicats
aOO tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willing! & Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges are now open and exposed to [tit st
that commodious (lore the north w«ft corner of
M 'rket and Fourth flreet. rnt. ro.
LANDING, "
From on board the Chip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
oimmander, frem Londtn,
60 tons of the best clean Ruflia
HSMP
60 rafts of bottled BROWN STOUT.
For Sale by the fuhfcriberj, No. »i, Penn-ftreet.
Willings £s* Francis.
Ofl- 31- d
J aft arrived,
From Port-au-Prince, aad for Sale bjf the fubfctP
hers,. No. si, Penn-flreet,
6<t hogfheadi,"}
> Prime Coffee
646 bags _)
Willings Iff Francis.
oft. it. §
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, firft quality, ia
. S'P"
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pipe*
Lilbon WINE, in pipes
CLOVES and 7 rl ,
NUTMEGS r olthelatc " im P ortatlon , 'nboxqj
SpanifcWool, in Bales, suitable for Hatters.
Willings & Francis,
Penn-ftreet, No. ai.
Nov. 1. w&stf
Mordecai Lewis,
HAS FOR SALE,
At his Store, No. 215, Great Dock-ftriet,
250 bales of Bengal Good#
Containing Baftas
v Codas
Currahs
Moragugung*es
Tookery
Check and Stripes ,
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Mamoody
Calicoes
IJ hoxes Irish Lineni
I do. Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
40 canisters Java Sugar
' 78 bags black Pepper
116 do. Cad India Ginger
100 calks roll Erimflone
70 pipes Madeira Wine
57 calks Gin
% A quantity of sheathing Copper and Naiis.
lawjw
Lately "Published, ~
111 vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar in boards) fold
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
Chefrut streets,
A Colle&ion of Papers on the fubje<El of
Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years past.
Compiled by NOAH WEBSTER, jua.
Containing letters from Dofiors Seaman, Smith,
Buel, Taylor, Ramsay, Monfon, Reynolds, Mitel,
ell,on contagiosa &c. &c.
Sept. If.
[Volume XII'ihe PALACE of AM3ITION.
From SOU? HE Y', JOAN of ARC.
——-ANllfirft a Undfcape rule,
I ■re wild and watte and deflate than where
"• •• white bear drifting on a field of ite,
" Is to h.fcftvtldtr'd cubs with piteoys rage
ft Vige agony. Mid the drear feene , p or
A mass uprear'il its inifly brow,
U:r«ucpM by breath of spring, unwont to kno#
i'-d rummer's influence* or the cheerful fa e . 10
' f autumn ; yet it*fragments, mmy and huge t
Altounrfed ocean with the dreadful dince (
l )i whirlpool. T.timberlffs, abforbitig ofc j
The bla::iLi«fs fiiher at his perilous toil. j
Upon the topmoil height the maid -n saw
A dome ; to ev'ry blait'
Sfcobk the wide fabric, tou'ring as tti £alU ■
y -rever tou'ring ; round-the tenjpefts yell.'d ut
Tr;:ncndous, music hoarse 1 ye: to the ear up.
Of uiwi who there had rule, the dynast stern, dat
Not pdelightful. His perturbed flight, bel
and gloomv, speeding hitherwards,
til-.S saw the dark wiag'd rhape ; with all its j n
towers ,
The Palace nods; such wc.s Ambition s voice !
Obedient firlt, fierce l'ervant of fierce lord, "°
Cnwl'd i'uperftition comes, bet loofen'd robes tin
Float on the breezes, and expo .'d to view
. ! ... . ufl «i dagger. By her fide crept on ou
r • .• fed Urpocnfy with meekest mien ,/ H
A ,-f I step demure, and erofs, which to his heart
3ic ore 11, ar.d fcem'd with heaven ward eye to
r-uur ,
TV pious prayer ; yet never prayer he pour d,
■ »ve when with secret glance he view d the an
crowd
Admiring nrar. Revenge unwilling quits as
f'h* mangled corple ; and prodigal of death, * w]
1U x- 11 lui-hter ftwde; hi.f»lci»i o yet uiilheath d .
Keeks from the wound, loose flow his long back *
locks,
'Che wideW of his eyeis terrible, m
,1 nd each limb quivers. Cruelty comes next, nc
With savage i'mile grasping a widow'd dove. d<
And Fury next beatiijg her own fwoln brealt j c
K'.iih'd at the call; and Envy, hideous form
Gnawing her ftelh, and tearing from her head *
The v/iper turn'd to bite: and Horror, wild,
With' creeping fltfh. Despair his sullen arms > ">
folded f-aye muttering dark and halt forrn'd
word, g
Of dreadful import Aged Avarice next c:
IJogg'd to his heart hi» bag«, and cast around j,
(Unwilling though tolofe the golden fight) u
Thefeaitul look. And fitful jealouiy .
Anxiius for mifcry came ; and feArifh Lull
0 Hot from the convent. Pallid Fear ficdon,
And ever as he fti-d-his'ghaftly eye I
Revests. Then tlalk'd along the giant form d
C f Prond Op predion : on his crowned brow g
Sat Defoliation, and his pirylefs frown t ]
Dispeopled countries ; him behind a train
Loathy and hsrrible, ofnamelefs fiends
Out-numberingvOCutU. I.aft as fill d with icar,
Sufpic'on, ever watchful clo»'d the train ; ti
Ptilr, meagre fpe6iie, with iron plates, t
Slteplefs 31.d fearful of the friendly "meal, u
Worn out with anxious vigilance of life. j (
These at the palace meet, there, porter fit, v
Rt moi fe forevei 1. - fad vigils kept, _
His heart the viper's feaft ; worn down his face
li f.ictffa were when fcar'ce the (hrivell d (kin
Wrapp'd o'er the bone, proclaim d the gnaw- t
ingpang; _ . J I
Inly he groan'd, or, starting wildly, fhntk d, j
Aye, ai the' fabric tottering from its bale > ,
Threaten'd deSruiflion, tho' olt announc d j
withheld, i
Tho'ftiil withheld, e*pe^ed-
These the maid c
Mai k'i as they fteer'd their dusky flight along; j
And lo ! ftie was amidst them. _ i
Paved with bonct, ,
The floor breath'd peftileoce; the emblazen'd (
walfi , .
With enHgns and with blood.uAin d arrns were
hung, ,
The trophies of ambition'.
On his throne
That fr.rm portentous reared his giant bulk,
Mote huge t7\an he, who with his huwdrtd -is
Scatter'd confufion o'er the host »f gods,
Briar ens ; or the monster brethren twain,
Whole ilature swelling ev'ry hour % Ave hopes
Of < quailing highest Heaven ; nor larger he
lllufive, 'gainfl whose head the thundercr Thor
Sped frulfrate his full force. A fable helitt
Shaden his brOwn face, where glow d thro eath
dark tint (
The fire of»anger; in his hand he grasp d
The desolating ,'ptar; his broad black brow
In thought coiitraSed spake his brooding foul,
' Sullenly fitent. <
. Now Landing,
And For SALS/by the Sudscribiri, .
33 hhds. BRANDY,
61 RICE s
14 half do. 5
7 hhcla. Carolina TOBACCO
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
fiovctncr 18. -
The Commiflioners
for alleviating the diftrel's of the Citizen* of
Philadelphia, have removed their office to the
Old Court Hanfe, High Street.
EDWARD OARRIGUES, Secretary.
t.;th mo. tB. * w -
REMOVAL.
Maurice Moynihan,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he
has removed Store of ( China, Gtais,
Ware, and Dry Goods from No. NorihSe
coc.d, to No. 71 North Seventh Street, north east
corner of Cherry Alley, where he folicita the fa
vor of his former cufiomers.
'N."3# Crates put up with care at the (horteft
notice. i
a,
Landing,
Frotn on board the (hip Edward, «t Walnut
Itreet Wharf,
London particular Madeira Wifie,
of a fupcrior qualityi For Sale by ifie fubferiber.
Robert dndrew.
ncvembcr 3. eot^_
■ FOR SALE,
By the Sobscribf*, at hi. Store, No. 75, South
Water-ftrect,
A general affortmeiit of China
Ware •
\ Black and coloured Sattins ' ■
Do. do. Luteiiriugs
Do.'- d». Handkerchiefs
Do. do. fewhjj[ Silks
Imperial and Hyfim I"ffs
Long and short Nawkeens
Quick Silver, in tobs
Holland Gin, in pipes
Allotted Glass Ware, in fafes
White and blown Havaraia Sugars, in boxes
Mobile*, in hoglhcadk
St. Croit Rum and 'uj;?r, in do.
London particular Madeira Wins
Sherry and Malaga v\,ißes, in quarter c.lki
Red, yellowand pil? Barks, in chslls
LoEWood, &c. &c.
„ rJ . 7 _tu&f4w JOSEPH SIMS.
• %%)€ rm
0 th
P H I L AT) E 1. P H 7 A , i on » rn
r < can rur
WEDNESDAY EVENING, ZZ ; a >necw
t —• rr-nm ridllM^
For the Gazette 0/the United Status.
t their h
To the SvBSCRtBRR, in the Gazette of the Unit- rl e S .
Ed States cf the 14to, and in P. Porcupine's at neg<
Gazette of the \sth ifl. <wbo puUifutd a peace'
Britijh Review of Doctor What "ton's pam
phlet. K.rpiib
SIR, article
Whether you wilh to procure a sale for domni
Doftor Wharton's pamplet, or really look
upon the doftrines of unitarisnifm to be
dangerous and unfcriptural, and iinccrely rt .f o i Vl
believe it will have a tendency to check their paign,
progress, lam at some loss tt> determine.— my v
In either alternative, however, you appear
to me to have rifqued the reputation of the
doftor, providad A? reviewers have quoted by a|
their author rightly. allotti
Certainly it cannot be much his Hon- Frenc
our as a man of science, or a divine, to fay
that the reasonableness of this (the christian)
revelation is not to be proved or examined; Plea!
because, as he fays, revelation implies informa- th
tion of something which reason cannot dijeover ;
and therefore mufl be different from all the de- Thoi
duaions of reafan. This it seems comes in
as a denial of a proposition advanced, some "
where, by Doftor Priestley* viz—that chr'tf- eomi
tianity, be/ides being proved to be true, mufl be cies
fhetvn to be rational. Now the review , a fe\
makes Dost. Wharton fay that we have ( ing I
nothing to do with the rationality of the j evili
doftrines of revelation, but limply, are these j exist
doSrines (alluding to the atonement and not i
probably to the trinity in some points) com- of t
municated to us by divine revelation, or are extr
they not ? j tc
I I believg the reformers did not take this tjeer
ground, in some of their disputes with the und
catholics, about tranfubftantiation and other deej
doftrines conlidered r.» irrationalaudunfcrip- A n
tural. I also remember to have read v a defe
learned work by a Mr. Jenkins, called the oug
Reasonableness and Cettainty of the Christian I is o
Religion, in which the author thought the ofte
doftrines were reasonable as well as true. — I vrati
Several of the Boyleian Leftiires, the au- I out
thors of which were clegymen of mod ex- this
tensive learning and piety, contain the opin- refu
ion that christianity gains much by its doc- the
' ! trines V' n g fbewn to b« rational :—And thri
that revelatioa was generally addressed to the J ona
underftaflding of men. Even Bifliop Horf- win
ley, the great modern defender of the trini- I wh<
ty and other doftrines' which the unitarian the
of christianity does not admit, recom- and
e mends the reading of Plato to those who j tha
wi(h to reduce thofc unintelligibles to some- jin i
•- thing wearing the appearanoe of rationality, feei
If lam not thiftaken, Butler has one chap- boi
ter in his analogy, to (hew that the atone- I rui
meat is not irrational—lndeed I have scarce- del
ly met with a person of opposite sentiments an<
but what endeavoured to shew that his view inii
of christianity was rational, and ou that in 1
;; ground, as wtll as by the forde of its exter- in
nal evidence, ought to be received—Hence rot
too the numerous treatise* upon the internal
** evidence of the christian religion. But it th<
appears that one hath risen greater than all mi
r< " thefe—Doftor Wharton.tells us that in ex- ge
aminirtga revelation we have nothing to do .
with the rationality or irrationality of its foi
doftrines ! Strange doftrine to such as have ho
" 16 been accustomed to think on these fubjefts ! th
The reformers asserted the doftrines of C<
tranfubftantiation to be absurd and c«ntra- th
ry to the evideace of sense ; and, th«refore, no
or when their opponents declared it, in the th
words of scripture, to be a doftrine of rcve- J wi
«h lation, they were rebutted by faying such | 't:
could not be the meaning of inspiration. lec
May not the fame be said of the atonement pr
l j if it be as repugnant to our ideas of righ- b]
teoufnefs and justice, as the other is to the I ki
evidence of sense—and of the athanafian txi- jif
nity, because it amounts to a plurality of I ar
Gods, or a confufion of the cLiareft ideas I pi
we have of personality ? I hi
By the dangerous and unfcriptural doc- I w
" trines, which you fay are rapidly extending 01
their malignant influence among 'us, I pre- I tl
fume, from comparing your introduftion at
t_ with the review, you mean to charafterife jpi
that view of christianity called unitarianifm. I oi
G f And here you are certainly right in faying di
the these doftrines are rapidly extending 'them- oi
selves ; this I know to be a faft ; and their bi
. progress may be traced in America for i m
twenty years. I rejoice too to find that Iti
those to whom they are considered as malig- rr
nant begin to take notice of them. I ft
And here, permit me to observe that the f<
, c!l s malignant influence you ascribe to them I f]
s e " take to be the effeft they have in destroying, "
east or the tendency they have to destroy, in ti
fa the-minds of people, the doftrines alluded o
to in doftor W's pamphlet, which as far as I c
I can colleft from the review may be the 1;
trinity, atonement and perhaps original fin, it
for they generally go together in th§ fame si
view of chriftianity. r
au»- Sure lam you cannot adopt this word j n
malignant, or the other words dangerous and 1 r
h e » unfcriptural. to mean a tendency or quality, »f
iber - in the system you oppose, to corrupt mor- j i
als, weaken the ties and obligations men are j f
tf under to discharge their to one ano- j a
ther, to society and to their creator ; be- 1
oath ca j|fe unitarians are generally of as gotfd t
moral charafter as thofc of other religious j
inji. denominations —and from the nature of 1 >
those tenet's which they rejeft as unfcriptural, \ 1
ar.d some others insludcd in their view of rev-j :
| elation, I think if cannot be mde to ap- j 1
J pear that they are not influenced by as I
1 high views, and powerful motives to holi- i
ness and purity, as those who lay they be- I
lieve the tenets unitarians rejeft.
i Ido not wiih t,® fee a theological contro- '
xcs verfy introduced to the public through the 1
newspapers. I think it is not a mode fufii- ;
cientlv dignified for the fubjeft ; but I
thought your language, and the sentiments
k? of Dr. K* as slated in the review, called
for the notice I have taken of them,
•i-. 1 ANOTHER SUBSCRIBER.
1. * 1
r< r the GAzzrrs cryirSD STATES. p-i a f s
HJ, Tf.'SS'C, dowi
THfi f.ditor of a Nrw-VcrV. fucpofes corll]
fVr the ? uplift and (he Fmp. ror wiftt for peace , r
lon terms " lufficiently Whs* faels "
1 can have led to this fuppoP.'ao:,, I an, at a !ofs to
l.oolt at htigUilll,--and behold her 1
ri.iiiif; triumphant on tile oce.'.n — up the of tl
three principal n'.aritiiua powns 0; Europe; and mof
in thunler wherever tliey dare peep out £
their headi from under the Ok-Iter of their hatte- i n
ries. Betides, hiiH fli-c not thrice failed in attempt* &
at negotiation, limply b-c»ufe fte would not pake ram
peice <lO ktuiiiiijting terms ? The Emperor— .s he prot
not about to re-commenee hostilities fsther th^ti
submit to ail a-St of treachery on the.pirf.of the a
liepiibiic, hy her refufingt" abide by one «T the
articles of the pi'J'niinary treaty having in
• demnified himfelf for the loft of a turl.ule it J«f- adff
tria by the »ccj(iifition of other t<rrit»#y of u:fi- I ovei
i nite imp.>r.tancei:ta him, did he not, ra-her than 1 j* s
give up'the pointrri"p('eiin;/thqtortrefsof Mantua,, v(
r resolve to abide the consequences of another cam
r paign. Do these tilings bespeak humiliation I In "P v
- view Great-Britain (lands it this hour i-A an led
c attitude virtual'y to controul the whole civilized not
Q world, /jpdhowever this is, abfvrecledly. tone mal
j lamented, yet if paramount power mult be held ce( j
by any nation, we ought to rejoice that it is not .
allotted to a p-ople pre-eminently disposed, as the Ul ®
- French are, to abuse it. P. T. a b
y ran
) Mr. Fenno, tin
; Please to publish the following extraft from inp
the BEE, publilh&d in the year 1791. wil
. _ pre
■- Thoughts on the modern prevalence of Bank- as
n ruptcies. Tl
,e " Perhaps, in the present situation of the fui
f- eommercial vvgrld, the number of bankrupt- ma
be ' cies which have of late happened, may claim frc
sv ! a few thoughts, as a fubjeft highly intereft
re ing to a mercantile nation. To remedy the thi
ie i evllentirelyis perhaps impoflible, while trade mi
fe I exists, andjortune is capricious ; but ought a 1
id ! not some diftinftion to be made in the eye ga
n- |of the world, between the situation of the an
re extravagant unthinking villain, the hasty an
speculator, and the worthy man, who has th
is I teen ruined by their schemes, ftrugghng en
ie under the burden of a numerous family, and tli
ev deeply aff*£ted with his fallen condition ? m
p- A man in the situation of the lattef, is most re
_a deserving comparffion ; on him the creditor m
ie ought not to wrack that vengeance which
in is only destined for guilty heads. Yet how
hie often do we fe« him reduced to poverty and
- want, exposed to the misery of a jail, with- "
u- I out friends and without help ! A man in
x- this situation is an objeft of pity ; he who
n- refufes it is unworthy of a better lot. On j.
ic- the hand, the more splendid spend- j
nd I thrift, who indulges himfclf in all the fafhi
he 1 onable follies of sensuality and extravagance,
rf- I who perhaps wai the ruin of the former,
iii. whose credit was never supported but by
an the most ruinous means, viz. " wind bills,
m- and personal aflurance," often meets with c
ho that pity which the other has never found :
ie- in a short time surmounts his difficulties of
ty. seeming embarraflmente • overleaps the
ip- I bounds of prudence, and begins again his
tie- I ruinous career with undiminifhed splendor ; ((
ce- alike the censures of the world,
nts I and of his own conscience, hackneyed in
ew iniquity. Ought not the one to be admired
iiat in his misfortunes, and the other reprobated ,
er- in his splendour, and detested, though fur-
nee roundefl with the glare oftinzeled shew ?
nal As matters have flood for some time past, , j-j
: it I there is no man who deals extensively but
all must fufFer : and the fraudulent bankrupt is
ex- generally the one who lives most splendidly.
do When we trace bankruptcies to their
its source, we' generally find extravagance at '
ave home, ruinous speculations, or misfortunes
its ! the cause to which they have been owing, j
i of I Could not some mode be adopted to eheck
tra- the growth of this growing' evil? Could 1
jre, I not some mark of odium be itamped upon
the I them by the public ? The wife most surely
•ve- j would applaud a scheme for that purpose : |
uch j 'tis a pity it has not been already put in ex-
I ecution. For instance, when it was clearly
lent proved that a man had fairly ruined himfelf
igh- by heedless expenditures, which he well
the I knows his circumftanccs could not admit of;
tri- I if he is a member of a mercantile society,
' of I and it is insinuated that either fraudulent'
deas I practices, or fom« other cause, owing to
I himfelf, have been the cause of his failure,
loc- I why not make inquiry ? and if that is found
ling I ont, ought he not to be expelled society by
pre- I the unanimous voice of honest men ? AV e
lion are told, shame ids more powerfully than
erife principle ; and lam persuaded, a man will
lifm. I often hear general general surmises with a
jring deaf ear, who would start at the thoughts
hem- of open reprobation. This must, however
;heir be prudently and. carefully examined ; but
for may be done after due investigation. On
that I the other hand, could not an iuftitution be
alig- made to bring forward the unfortunate, and
I fuccpur the distressed citizen. The rich who
t the*] fear not the hour of adversity, may perhaps
m I spurn at the proposal ; but the sober think
ing, ing man would approve. Suppose an irtfti
r, in I tution was formed for- the express purpofi
udec! jof relieving decayed r bants, after the
"aras circumftancesattending their failure were du
e the ly infpefted by a committee : I dare fay
I fin, it would meet with encouragsment ; and a
fame small annual contribution too trifling to be
I regarded by the opulent would do the bufi
word j ness, audit is too ufeful a scheme to be dif
r and I regarded by the humble. Were this propo
ility, »fed by some patriotic gentleman, I dare fay
mor- ' it would meet with encouragement : and
n are surely to be the means of depressing and
ano- affronting the villain, and encouraging the
; he- * honest and virtuous, is an undertaking wor
gorfd thy of man.
gious j If'.his is thought worth inferring in your
-e of ' work, it may perhaps bring forward some
tural, | more able arguments, and be the means of j
f rev- j at least making the villain blufli, while the
o ap-*i honest cannot but commend.
iy as I I am, indeed, of opinion, that had this
holi- inftitutfon been formed for some years past,
y be- the payments to real objefts would have been
very few ; but in all probability, the evil
intro- will iucrca'fe, till the public take the alarm,
b the and by some mark of odium, assume that
fuffi- authority, which our laws, in their present
jut I fituatiofl, cannot impart. D. C«
nents
called A rtew improved plan of a Bee-Hive.
Where and pleasure have been
R. particularly ih died, neat n s .ahogany and
glass hives have been conftrufted In the win-
dows of dwelling houses ; by which means
company in a fitting room may fee into the
g'pfs hive, and be araufed by the a£iivity
and, labor of the industrious community ey
ery moment of the day, andJearn a leflon
of tm ploying their moments to the
moll ufeful putpofes. n(
Some bee-hives are so conftru&eH with
glafles,ofdifferent fi/.es, as to represent a py-
vamid ; which at the fame time are highly
produftive. This is done by placing over ((
the body of the hive, which is of glass,
a flat round board, perforated nearly round
the edges, with holes fufficiently
admit the bees readily to pass and repafs ; ""P,
I over each hole a small glass, like a cupola, e (
j is inverted'; and as soon as the body- of the
hive is filled, the bee continues his labour'
upwards till every glass cupola is richly fil
led with wax and honey. Over these a
nother fiat board, perforated in the lame
manner, and furnifhed with glafles, is pla- .
ced ; every other strata, lefiening in
diameter, may be so added as to represent ;
a beautiful and lofty pyramid. In this py
ramid form of raising the hive, the.bees con-
tinue to work without swarming or leav- .
ing tV; hive, till tjhe glass cupolas are filled
with wax and honey ; and they may be j.®
prolonged by removing the glafles qs soon
as filled, and substituting empty ones.
These glafles may be made of fitch size as to °
• suit a family to breakfaft, each of which
may be daily introduced to the table frefh '
i froffrthe hive. [ u; ' (
A little honey on the bread would save
; the use of butter on the occasion, and be
: more wholesome. It is at the fame time '
t a luxury that every family in possession of a
; garden, may command without expence ;
; and certainly with the addition of rational ?
; amusement. To unite this with profit is
s the intention of these Jiints, which experi
r ence will improve upon, and amply reward
J the proprietor of this most industrious com
? munity of laborers, who seek no reward in '
I return but house and Ihelter from the incle
r mency of the seasons. n(
v BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH
i of Joseph MAria Pancrazi.
" Wits live nbfcurely, men know rot how ;«r die 11
obfcnr»ly, men nrt when " ascham.
" Fortune has rarely condescended to be in
° the companion of merit, iiven in these en- m
lightened times men of betters have lived in w
•" obfeurity, while their reputation was wide- ce
[' ly spread ; and hare perished in poverty, at
'' while their works were enriching the book- w
r ' fellers.
That generous warmth of foul which en- &
couragement might have eulivenedintograti- o
tude, or bounty elevated to ambition, has t;
j too frequently been extingujfhcd by the k
tears negleft has eaufed it to filed. W ant n
' ; e and dependence check the flights of genius, a
obftrutt ev«ry noble effort of the mind, and ti
" chill the genial current of the foul."
A person endowed with superior mental si
faculties in distress, was, by the antients, n
very.aptly shadowed under the emblem of t
Minerva in a poor habit, having her right c
hand chaiued to a huge stone lying 011 the p
ground, whilst her lfft hand, which is fur- ii
' nifhed with a pair of wings, is held aloft ; li
■ fignifying the ardor with which Genius as- n
14 pires to the noblest things, whilst unhappi- p
J-' ness of concision restrains its endeavors and 1
'. it prevents the accomplifliment of its defiVes. e
A little memorandum by the late Tho- t
le * mas Hollis, Esq. (the munificent benefac-i j
"k -tor of Harvard university) led to these hu- 1
militating temarks. t
There was something very affe&ing in th- f
, fate of Father Pancrazi. The learning and \
, the merit of this excellent and hospitable c
man were known and admired throughout !
Italy. Yet these empty applauses", some- t
times leavened wi'h malignant erivy, were 1
jj the only rewards obtained from his induftri- I
out application to literary pursuits, his ex- t
' tcnfive bounteous generosity. 1
Wholly engaged In his fhidies and his deva
"to tions he took no thought for the neceflary ]
supplies of life. His resources, every day 1
n( j leflening in a<fts of charity and hospitality, i
. and in the purchase of rare and valuable
books, were at length exhausted. He be- !
, came extremely poor. It was now, howev
er, that he began his much admired work on
j the Antiquities of Sicily ;* this ht compo-
fed, as the celebrated Johnson fays he did
his dictionary, " with little afliftauce from
the learned; and without any patronage of
Q n the great ; amidst inconvenience and dif
traftion, sickness and sorrow and rsuch of
his time was unavoidably spent in making
provifipn for the day, which was passing o
vcr him. Many who read his bo«k with
admiration knew of his neceflities, yet no
jij' one relieved tbem. "In the autumn of
>f- 1 75j?' fays Mr. Hollis,f he lodged in a
'i " ThJatin convent, the convent of his order,
at Naples. There he was attacked by a vi
r olent fever, which impaired and broke his
constitution. In that feeble state, however,
( he applied to his work ; and, in order more
speedily to publish the third volume of it,
found means, in the year 1753, -to fell a few
' " rare medals which he had colle&ed, to tl e
'?° king, by whom he had the honor to be per
fonaUy known and refpe&ed. The superior
and '^ e conve,,t f° Bie ' lc>w g ot intelligence of
? e that traafaftion, claimed the money arising
C from the sale of the medals.for the uses of the
convent, and obtained it._ When Father
Pancrazi became apprized of the event, he
!went diftrafted direftly ; and after languifli
ing, with intervals, miserably some years, at
length ended his wretched life."
" While the gold lies uftlefs in the moul
this dy coffer- of the Miser, the leaden hand of
.j> poverty checks the daritjg flights of youth,
i*' and chills the fire of enterpiize."
bcc " » Schiller.
evil
arm, * /nticbita Siciliane. Napol. 175 1. 2
that vol." fil. .
;fent f s<■' a nite in his own htmd writing, in the
C. Ji' ft volume of the abevs tuorl in the Library
of Harvard Uu'rverftiy ; to which Air. Holhs
makes this addition, " this good man rendered
been me hospitality, and by his letters J travelled
and. throughout Sicily and Malia."
' RICHMOND, Nov. iTs ~
Mr. Davis,
The following is an extract from a fenfiblc,
candid and well written letter, received
by last Wednesday's mail, from a native
born Virginian of diftinguilhed ctarafter
and property, who has been sometime j
northwardly, and is at present in Phila
delphia. A CORRESPONDENT.
November 14, 1797.
" This place again revives—the public
officers are returned, and the fever will be
j fo&n forgotten except by those who have to
deplore the loss of a valuable friend.
As to Europe there is the molt anxious
expeftation—The fate of humanity at large
as well as the interests of America, seems to
depend upon the events which now portend.
While this dilemma prevails there will be
but little enterprize—The capitals have
been very much affected* so that what re
mains irvilft be nursed ; nor cau I fay much
on politics, a fubjeft which has necessarily
of late imprefled itfelf upon every one. I
can however, make a few remarks fro-m my
own observations upon all governmental fub
jefts. The Virginians- arc generally impff
fed ripon and mifinformed—l'have been my
felf much mistaken in many refpe&s, and I
have contributed in some degree to mislead
others, and do now most heartily widish at
I had the power to undo every error of ttys
kind. If any man will come to this
place with a mind perfeftly unprejudiced
and open to truth, he will soon discover
that he has not been master of the data up
en which,opinion is founded. H<; will dis
cover that prejndice and has had, and
now holds considerable empire ; and that
even they whose duty and fituat.'on (hould
■induce them to unrcialk the Impostors, ei
ther Wecome inert or parties. lam perfua
j ded that there are two errors in Virginia
* which support each other—the firft is, the
( leading public charafters think the mass of
the people are opposed to government and
that they are therefore unfaithful if they do
notlikewife oppose and abufeall the officer*
of government, whereas the firft is not the
truth, and the second is a great fault : a
e very little explanation would regulate this
—the people of Virginia would be viewed
e in their true chara&er, and very different
means would be used for popularity. There
11 would not then be found men whose politi-'
eal eclat was acquired by epithets of a"bufe
r, agairifl Wajbington, adorns, and others, nor
l- would there be found a man who (hould •*
fay tfiat Adams,, Pickering, IVolcott, Lee,
l- 55V. &c. contemplated to perpetuate' their
i- own power, at the expense of public liber
is ty and public justice—but they would be
ic known to he plain, upright men—the
it friends of their country, of good order,
5, and peace, and only the enemies of the fac
id tious, intriguing and fetjitious.
Whenever truth (hall it will be
al found that the Americans generally, from
s, north to south think and mean alike. Atr
of tempts have been made to eftablilh an un
it ceasing principle of civil discord, so that by"
le playing off party against party, the leaders
r- in the opposite scale might acquire a falfe pc
t ; litical character and establish an opinion a
if- mong their followers, that they alone fup
>i- ported the cause of public honor and pub
id lie justice But for this, why art months
employed on the floor of Congress to fet
o- tie points which men of business could ad*
c- 1 just either one way or another in a few days?
u- In a few uays after the meeting of Congress
the fides are formed, and although walls re
h- fpund with speeches, and the papers groan
id with the publication of them, yet any fpeak
>le er knows that he will'make no converts and
ut all wait like puppets, till the ehampions are
ic- tired. What then does this mean ? 'Tis to
■re keep up the spirit of party—to conceal the
ri- truth—to induce the people of one region
x- to think that thofeof another intend to make
ty. them beasts of burthen and so -vice versa.
ro- Let it be supposed that at enfuing fef
iry Hon all Congress (hould harmonize'.—the
ay members'(hould go home and inform their
ty, conllituents that the people of Maffachu
ble setts and the people of Virginia were equal
be- ly plain, industrious and well meaniug, with
ev- out any designs on the lights or proper ties
on of their neighbours—what would be the
30- confcquence ? That in future there would
3id be no suspicion—party spirit and fa&ion
um would hide their heads, and we, (hould not
of be any more .duped by feare-crow tales,
lif- which even theperfons who are the authors
of of them, are afhamcd to repeat until they
ing flatter themselves that such are the fears and
;o- sentiments of their constituents.
ith
no ExtraA of a letter from a gentleman in the
of state of Tennessee, to his friend in this ci
a ty, dated Oft.. 26th, 2797. „
ler, " It is with pleasure I inform you, that
vi- the hon. judge Claiborne, formerly of your
his city, is ele&ed the member to represent this
ler, state in the Congress of the United States,
ore The fheriffs meet to morrow to eomparc the
it, polls of the different counties—But certain
few it is, that judge Claiborne is elefted, and
tl e we unierftaud will set qut for Richmond on
per- his way to the feat of government on the ill
fior day of November."
: of '
sing Law Intelligence.' /
the Na •vember IStb 1797.
ther Gibson k;. Fristoi and others fdecided in
j lc the Court of appeal during thf present term.
:A It was an .-i<£lion of debt brought by the Plains
11 ' tiff against the defendants, 011 their bond dated
'» at the.nth of Oilober, 1788, for the payment of
£149 - 14 - X, on the firft of March following,
oul- with .interest from a preceeding day, the 17th
I of of December, 1757. The plea, which (not
uth withstanding some informalities) the partiei
' considered, as being at issue, was that of usury;
and to the following effeist: That on the 17th
. of December 1789, Friftoe was indebted to the
. 2 plaintiff hy his own fipartafe bond* without fi
curity, for the f'lm of ,£ 445 - 11 -t Aerling,
, t t j le with interest from January 1. 178S ; tliat on
the 1 ;th of December, 1789, * was corruptly
'"ft n?reed hetw een them, that the plaintiff (hould
■ olht f r bear and give a further day of payment, till
■'cred
Marih 1.1789, and for such forbearance, and
idled in lieu of his old sterling bond, Firjtce was to
afflgr certain fpecifkd bonds, andto; give a fur-titer bond for f• 49 -u -1, payable the ifl
day of March, '789 -; that in cx.vution of this
agreement the boi ds wrSre assigned, and th.
further bond aForesaid was exev uted, and a'.i
were delivered to the plaintiff; that the amount
of the bonds aflignt-d. and the further bond a
fcrefaid* exceeded whit wag due principal and
interest at five per cent, on the old jßeriing
hoiid.
A fecial vtrdift was found in fitbftance as
fdllows :
ThJt Priftoe rn indebted t" the plaintiff,
bv -bond, on the ift of January, 1786, in
- 11 - z fteding, payable in bills of ex
change, or i-m-rcnt money, at the current ex
change when paid, with interest from tint date;
That the Defendanuon the 17th- of December,
1787,' by agreement between hiin ardthe plain
tiff, did make over and assign to the Plaintiff
sundry bonds, amounting to £7BO current mo
ney, at (he value of -8-2 (letding; and
the balance - 2 sterling, which, at
the rate of forty per cent, exchange, amounted
to j£i49 -12 - 1 current money-; and the de
fendant in pursuance of the lcttlement which ,
they refer to in l\sc verba, gave the bond in suit
on the Ijth o£i. 17S8, with two secUrities for
the £ 149 - 13 - 1 payable March tft, 1789, with |
interest from December 17th 1787 ; that the j
defendant about the time of nfligning the bonds
intended to remove to Kentucky, and the r.lsin
tiff aftsrwards declared the defendant should
itot I'.ave gone withe"' having fetilcd the debt ,
'l'hat the bond'- affiun-d have heer. fully paid up
and fjfisfie'd to the plaintiff, together w:>h the
intercf? due to the time of payment , That t'u
cbligafors in the bonds afiitrned, were, at tie
time of the aCignment. deemed of fnfncirVit e
state and property t'» riiliharge them ; That at
the time the writ in this suit was fcrved upon
the defendant, he ack owtedged the debt to be
a just one.
The paper refer'd to contained,
ift—The settlement between Gibfon and
Friftyeon December r7th, 1757, whereinFtif
toe is mide d.btor for the rid bond and interest
to that time ; his credit for the bond? affigne.i
at jC.Tßi- 8 2 fterli-:g, and the balance is re
duced at forty per cent- an f makes £, 149 - n-i ;
current money : and Oibfoti acknowledge Ist
thefdot, that for this balance the boad In l-uit ■
was given—jdty—A particular slate of the j
bonds afligned, fiiewiieg their fevcral.amounts j
and times of payment ; lome of thole bonds be- 1
ing<iue on tht 17th of December, fiy ; .'ml
others, and those tlie mo!f confuierable, b»ing i
due affutu're days. Subjoined is a written co. '
venant signed by the defendant, that tlie bonds
are a|l due, and that no part of them had been
receivod by him or any of Mr. John Ball's ex
ecutors, or>a.iy person forth^m.
On this verdiil judgment wa' gi<ren in the
court, forthe defendants and the plain
tiff appealed. The judgment of the court of ;
appeals affirmed the judgment of the diftrUt
court ; and by this affirmance it is now estab
lished, that a cafe under all these circumstances
is t^rory.
y ■pbiiiii ■■■ ■mjiMjK* w.* wn
From Paris Papers to the 29th Septem
ber, received by the Ihip Farmer.
MANTUA, August 29.
The following letter Ihews that Mantua
now makes an integral part of the fSfulpure .
republic, and will calm the inquietude (
republicans, who were afraid of feeing that •
fortrefs repafs to the power of the Emperor.
« General Miollis, the commandant of Man
tua, to the administration of State.
' " Citizens,
" General Berthier, chief of the Etat
Major General, has made known, on the
part of Mantua, that its territory, as well is
all the communes on the right bank of the
Oglio and of the Po, form an integral part
of the Cifalpinc republic, and, of course,
their police belor.gs to the executive direc
tory of that republic, and to the authorities
which are established there.
MIOLLIS."
Mantua should be rrovided with provisions
for a year'B they are employed in the
fabrication of 1500,000 rations of biscuit,
and all the laborers are employed in this bu
siness. Articles of every kind, destined syr
the provifionment of this fortrefs, are ex
pe&ed from Milan, which the general in
chief will, it is supposed, immediately visit.
MILAN, September 11.
The executive direftory has decreed that
until the formation of a general law for the
whole Cifalpin* republic, .all colleftions ol
eeclefiaftical benefices, except curacies, (hall
remain provisionally suspended.
PETERSBURG, Sept. 7.
His majesty of all the Ruflias has afligned
to Louis XVIII the sum of two millions ,
of roubles to enable him to purchase land
either in Ruflia or Germany. The Empe
ror has also charged Prince Kivifkank to re
ceive every individual of the army of Conde,
who may desire to enter into the service of
Ruflia.
GENOA. Sept. 18.
Tranquility is perfeSly re-eflabU/hed here, Sever
al of the chief conspirators are arrcjed ; some
have been fbot, amongfl i»hom was a priefl of
Valle Buona, and a French emigrant priefl.
About sixty fx-patricians have been arrested, and
jyc confined in one of the halls of the ci-devant
Petty Council, and guarded by a number of
centinels. /.uguflin Triefco, and a certain De
franchi. are in the prisons of the tower. Manv
of the peasants arc also arrefled. The provi
ftonal government has demanded of Generfll
Buonaparte a reinforcement of French troops.
They are arrived, and are lodged between the
new and old walls of the city.
BORDEAUX, OSlober 3.
We read in No. 8 of the Grandeur, that the
General Buonoparte being informed that the
Emfieror had formed a secret league with the
court of Rome, the objed of which was to sur
prize him, had himfelf turned the tables upon
those two perfidious allies, and that his frfl
toup-dt-milin had been tofurround thirty thou
fant men, and make them lay down their arms,
,:nd that he meant to proceed to Rome, to chajlife
them into goodfaith, and open the eyes of credu
lous nations, by breaking the talisman of a cun
tting court, which has owed its too long enjoyed
power, only to ignorance andfuperfiition.
Thus it fecms reserved for the hero of Italy,
to efface from the lift rf 'th: fates of Europe,
this modern Rome, who has inundated the uni
verse with blood and tears.
We arc assured that ■ Cerler, contra Sir for
.//>• horse furniture if thl ctrmy of Italy has
written home, announcing the jiguature of the
treaty of peace with Emperor.
PARIS, September 23.
We can now announce without fear, tli 1
Buonaparte has furrounued the troops of
the. Emperor, beyond Udine, and that in
the fpaee of 6 days or more, he will be at
the gates of Vienna, unless a peace, the
most honorable and fatisfa&ory, both to us
and the Italians, (hall be consented to by his
Imperial majesty. (Amides Lois.)
Notwithstanding the above, they write
from Roveredo, 41b September, thus :
Roveredo, Sept. 4.
" The Gazette of Padua, of the 24th
August, after having related the entertain
ments which had been given to Buonaparte
during his (lay in that city, adds, the com
mander in chief, has declared to the troops
of the divifior\ of Mafiena, which he came
to review, that peace is made with Portu
gal, it is hoped for with England, and I am
going to Uiiine, in order to conclude peace
with the Emperor. Buonaparte departed
in the night forTrevess."
The following letter from Italy, which is
authentic, would induce one to believe that
not the best miderftanding exists between the
Court of Vienna and the Prince of Conde.
It is written by an officer of rank, under
PrincevCharles, to his brother ! it as fol
lows :
" Our generals are much surprized at
the new conspiracy difcovcred in France,
and are sorry it existed. All affiire that our
court had no hand in it.
" The Prince of Conde came the 12th
September to visit Prince Charles : but was"
received with the greatest coldtiefs. Prince
Charles even told us that he was sorry to fee
that Conde was here, and that but for him
a definitive peace would have now been
signed.
" W hije at dinner, Conde received dtf
patches from Ruflia, relative to hi* depar
ture for that country with his army. It i 9
Certain that he is countenanced only by that
court and England. He is totally abandon
ed by ours. We even have orders to arrsft
and try all those who shall be found recruit
ing for him.
SeptenUjer 26.
COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED.
Jacomin begged leave of the cpuneil, to
relate some details concerning the transac
tions, at Point-Saint-Efprit.—Leave was
granted.
I come, said he, to give you some intqr
efting details which have been transmitted
to me by the commiflioner of the executive
directory, nearthe department of LpDrome.
He informs me that the royalist army which
was fotmed near Vauclufe and the depart
ment 6f La Bwuit, hat been dilperTe37~and
that Saint Chriftol, who afted as general of
the two councils, has been arretted.
Jacomin then prefentedthe letter from th«
commiflioner ; the fallowing is an extraft
from it;
" I was informed," fays the commiflion
er, " two months ago, that a band of cnt
throats was forrfiing. The chiefs remained
secret. Fear hindered them from uniting,
jhey only dispatched parties of 25 men to
lay wait near the roads, seize the meflengers
and couriers of the mail, and scour the coun
try, where they aflaflinated therepublicans."
" However, this armed force at length
made its appearance two days ago in a bo
dy of 400 men. No one could discover
their deligns ; Saint Chriftol and Berignan
were the chiefs. At length they made an
attack on Point-Saint-Efprit, and got pof
feflion of the citadel. We had at that time
no knowledge of what was pafling at Paris.
The courier of the 19th which did not arrive
till the 26th,- contained nothing but dis
patches, which were of little importance."
" I fe«d you herewith the manifefto of
this Saint Chriftol, who calls himfelf geaer
al of the two councils. Upon the news of
the invasion of Point-Saint-Efprit J gave the
neceflary ordti's to destroy the germ of this
new Vendee, which, already confiding of a
bout 1500 men, began to make itfelffeared,
and to levy contributions. My orders were
executed with the rapidity oflightning and
the brigands retired frory Point-Saint-Efprit
, carrying j&'itli them 5 pieces of cannon."
"Generals Almera and Tiflon made a
jun&ion at Carpentras, and marched in pur
suit of the rebels. It is believed our troops
j have come up with, and defeated them ; for
a letter from the administration informs us,
that Saint Chriftol has been arrested."
Jacomin then read the manifefto of Saint
Chriftol, of which the following is an analy
sis . " The tocsin of tyranny has been foun
ded in the palace of the dirediory ; the con
j ftitution his been violated ; your mod faith
j ful representatives are fallen underthe poign
' ards, and soon you will fee the bloody scenes
i of Orange, and Carpentras renewed. What
;do 1 fay ? Such horrors are but an imper
! fe& sample of what i 3 preparing for you.
It is on your bloody carcases, on the palpi
tating breaftsofyour wives, they will "execute
their infamous projects. Rouse yourselves,
then, from your lethargy, rally at the voice
of Willot and of Pichegru, whose humani
ty have covered them with glory. Hasten
to join the brave army, that waits for you
under the walls of Orange."
" It is to you, brave youths, that our
voice is particularly addressed.
not to reft untill we have delivered you from
your tyrants." This manifefto is dated the
12th of Sept. corresponding to the 25th
Frnftidor.
Jacomin also read a letter from General
Almera to the administration of La Drome,
which states that the brigands retreated in
disorder, after having mafiacreed 7 or 8 per
sons, and levied a sum of 30,0-0 livres ; it
' concludes by announcing that St. Cariltol
is arretted.
The council ordered the printing of these
pieces, and that honourable mention be made
of the condudt of the national guard of
Niftpea, and of the administration of the
department of La Drome.
September 29.
The following is the folenli ceremony
which is to take place 1:1 memo-y of general
Hoche, who died at Wetzlar the third com
plementary day of the fifth year, in the
thirtieth year of his age. _
In the midst of the Champ Je Mars, -be
fore the altar of the count! y, will be engra
ved the name of Hoche, and, tie principal
vi&ories which heNiad atcbievtd.
Round the altar of the country will be e
redted funeral columns of trophies, inferip
tions and colours, entwined with crape and
black ribbon.
Around the pyramid, and the altar of the
country, will be planted groups of poplars,
bet Wet n which cafToletiof antiquity (hall be
placed, and incense b;|rnt 'therein.
The place of the building of the military
school will be covered in great part with
hangings and tricolourod drapery.
Duriagthe forenoon of the (irft decade
of Vendemiare cannon (hall be fired every
quarter of an hour.
At ten o'plock the ministers (hall meet at
the diredtory ; and the administrations, tlie
national inllitute, and the profefTors of the
central schools, (hall meet at the military
school.
The foreign ambassadors and diplomatic j
agents will be invited to meet at the milita- j
ry school.
The father and the family of general }
Hoche will be conveyed in carriages to be j
provided by the miniuer of the interior.
All the garrison (hall go with their arms
to the champ de mars. •
The general and etat major of the 17th
divilion, and the officer of the police, lhall
meet near the directory.
All the troops which (ball attend at the
champ de mars (hall surround the space des
tined for the ceremonies. •
At eleven o'clock, tjic executive directo
ry, accompanied by its guard and retinue,
(hall take its route toward* the military
school, aad (ball enter the champ demnri by
the south gate. ;
The troops (hall march .with their arms
clubbed. From time to time, the drums,
muffled, (hall beat the roll. The trumpets
and military music, also covered withmourn
ing, (hall funeral dirges.
The diredtory (hall go on foot to the mi
litary school. It (hall enter the Champ de
Mars, preceded and followed by the consti
tuted authorities, by the national institute,
and by the profefTors of the central schools;
and, unaccompanied by its retinue, it fiall
pass between a double rank of troops, which
(hall close after its passage, and defend the
entrance of the circle. The members of
the executive directory, the ministers, and
all persons who form their retinue, shaH bear
in thair hand a branch of oak or of laurel.
In the midst of the retinue, and before
tlie direitoi'y, flaoll eariicd tla jus
general Hochc, placed on it litter, with a
trophy and the military signs which distin
guish a general in chief. The whole to be
supported by four ®ld soldiers.
The diredtory and its retinue (hall follow
the walk of the poplars to the right of the
Champ de Mars, and make a half tour of the
circle to ttie altar of the country.
A body of instrumental music (hall pre
cede the diredtory, and (hall play » solemn
march campofed by citizen Goffec.
The executive directory (hall take place
on the altar of the country.
Places (hall be reserved for thf ministers,
the diplomatic bodies, the constituted au
thorities, See. also for the.family of general .
Hoche.
The effigy of the general (hall be depo- ,
fittd before the pyramid on an alcove, or- :
namented with chandeliers and antique tri
pods.
The choirs of the conservatory of music,
and of the theatre of the republic and the
arts, (hall execute a solemn air.
The president of the directory (hall deli- j
ver a difcourfir.
Groups of young women clothed in white
with of crape, (hall range themselves
round the pyramid, and firig the chorus.
.One of the members of the national in
stitute (citizen Dannou) holding in his
hand a branch of laurel, (hall mount one of
the steps of the pyramid, and pronounce a
funeral eulogy on general Hoche.
The singing of the young girls fliall com
mence.
During this time, the different military
corps (hall be placed round the pyramid
with their arms reversed.
The Marseilles air (hall be executed.
A choir of men and women, accompani
ed with the symphony, (hall sing a stanza
of " Amour facre de la patrie."
It (hall be followed by the " Chant du de
part."
The troops (hall file off before the pyra
mid, in great parade.
The generals and officers (hall salute with
the sword.
The diredtory, the ministers, and persons
composing their train, (hall go and deposit.
one after the other, their laurel branches
near the effigy of general Hoche, and (hall
then return to the military school by the
weft fide of the Champ de"Mars.
During this march, the guns (hall be fired
by intervals, the muffled drums and military
inftroments (hall play funeral airs.
The directory fliall return to the directo
rial palace in the fame order in which they
left it.
The Minuter of the Interior,
LETOURNEUX.
We learn from Milan, that an order of
the general in chief, dated head-quarters,
near Udine, announces that all the divisions
of the army were to be put in motion on
the 2d Vendemiare (23d Sept.) % The
fame order commands all the generals of di
vilion to complete the furniture of their
troops ; to have forty cartridges for each
soldier, without counting those in the cas
es ; to fend into the strong places the worst
armß ; to form their trains of_ artillery ; to
fend immediately to head-quarters an ac
count of the cavalry ready to march on the
2d Venderaaire ; to fend the sick into the
hospitals ; to provision all the places foitifi- ,
ed in a manner fit to fuppqrt a liege. In !
short, all the measures of precaution which
announce the renewal of war, are taken,
fnd die generals are rendered p'erfonaliy re
sponsible for their execution.
The CommifTiinaire Ordonnateur in chief
is busily engaged in seconding the views of
gen. Buonaparte. The march of the con- j
voys, the .route which they are to take, the
places of deposit or reft, and the meeting «- 1
gain of each service, are regulated in a letter
to citizen Lambert at Milan.
News is this moment arrived from Venice,
that the correspondence of thfc powers of
Italy and the cabinet of Austria have been
intercepted by this re-union. It is true,
that this may appear extraordinary, and
that it coincides with the royal
cotifpiration ef the interior ; btit we do
not believe that it is much to be feared.—
There are fqme princes in Italy v.-hose
thrones have not been overthrown, only be
cause Jupiter has not yet frowned. A ges
ture, a word, or a blow, or the signature of
a certain man, ■ will be fufficient to dellroy
the work of several ages. In the mjan
time, citizen Marmoiit, aid de camp of the
general in chief, is gone to_ Rome ; and the
French fleet, composed of twelve men of
war and seven frigates, have failed four days
since. on the brink of great events.
The members condemned to transporta
tion, who have been cendufted to Rochfort,
yet complain of the want of attention from
their pretended partizans. The reception
which they have received on their route,
ought toliaveundeceived them in this refpedt.
Indifference, indignation, or contempt, have
been the only sentiments which have been
manifefted on their pafiage. They were
embarked on board the Valiant the ift Ven
demaiare. The following is an exadt lift :
Laffond Ladebat, Barthelemy, Lartts;,
Barbe Marbois, Berthelot, Lavilleumois,
Ramel, Rovere, Pichegru, Aubry, Muri
nes, Brottier, Troncon Dueoudray, Wil
lot, Doffonville, Bourdon.
Letellier, attached to the Ex-Diredtor
Barthelemy, who voluntarily followed him. -
The covette failed the 2d Vendemiare, in
the morning, with a favorable wind, and was
soon out of fight. -
The hopes and wifhe's of the "friends of ,
humanity are again deceived,and the authors
of the troubles of France will again fee their
perfidious intentions recompensed by a rene
wal of the horrors of war. How, indeed,
could it be expedted, that the emperor, who
has conflantly aimed at our deftrudtion,
(hould consent to have peace, at the instant
in which he was driving to excite troubles
in the interior of the republic, and constant
ly favoring the enemies of the revolution ?
Had he not in them stronger auxiliaries than
in his own soldiers ? He certainly had, and
wvUoDni norWdKl all lie couHTto excite
our divisions, and to favour the conspira
tors, which has been the true cause ef his
backwardness in concluding the proje&ed
peace.
The Courier Hiftoriqueof Sept. 20, me
ntions the appointment ef Citizen Guinguene
adiftinguifhed author to the post of secretary
general of tbe executive direftory, in the
room of Legarde. Citizen Gohier is ap
pointed Minister of Police. »»
On the nth Sept. the Executive direc
tory sent a mefTage calling the attention of
the Council of Five Hundred, to the law
of August 2, which ordered the emigrants
in the service of England; who w<;re fnip
wrecked near Calais, and among others, the
noted Cboifeul, to be condudted into a neu
tral country, and set free, leaving them in 1
this manner at liberty to rejoin the British
and fight as before, against the republic.—
The late confpirat.ors had adroitly recom
mended and carried this meafqre by surprise
ltnder vain pretexts of humanity aqd justice. [
The Direftory suggests the propriety of
; transporting those emigrants with the late
conspirators to the coast of Bouth America,
in order to prevent them from again carrying
arms against the republic.
%l)t @a?ette.
PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, NOVKMBEJt 21.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21.
Mr. Coit, from the committee of elec
tions, made a report that the newly return
ed members were entitled to their feats.
Mr. Harper presented a petition from
George Turner, of the North Western
Territory, praying for compensation for
corn and'wood confurnedby the aripy of the'
United States.
Mr. Macon presented petitions from
Wra. Bell, mariner, and from Frederick
Cyrus, miner. The former is now in pri
son. He states that in 1794, he was em
ployed by Mr. Riytenhoufe, merchant, in
the New Packet, that he gave bond to "the
custom house as principal, expedting Mr.
R. to be answerable ; but ovviug to his fai
lure to be so, judgment had been obtained
against him. He prays for thrf interference
of congress in his behalf.—Frederick Cyrus,
having heard that government was about to
establish mining in the North Western Ter
ritory, prays for the fuperi ntendcncy.
Mr. Livingston presented memorials
from John le Normand and Henry Sheriot,
merchants of New-York, praying for the
remission of duties which had been secured
to be paid on wines which was consumed
by the late fire.
Also from the measurers of the district of
New-York, praying for an advance of com
pensation.
Also from Robert Ilyflop, attorney for
John Paul Jones, for the settlement of fun
diy certificates out of date.
Also from Jimes How, soldier in the
late war,for relief.
Also from Sarah Alexander, widow of
the late Gen. Sterling, praying foe th e
, land due for tlie fch ices of her late Tkifl ,»(f«
! Mr. Harper fnM, as he mvJerfW,
the late committee of cLiir.s was not now in
- ewftcncc, lie fhouiil move for the appoint -
I meet offiieh r. committer.
[ ' * !e Wottpn was carried, and a committt®
of seven inetjtbejs were appointed, viz.
Meflrs,. D wight Foster. Coit, Thompson,
Hanna, Baer, Jones and Stanford.
On motion the petitions 6f George Tur
ner, Robert Hj'flop, James HqiV, and Sa
rah. Alexander, wees referred to the above
committee, i
Mr. Livingston moved that a ccmmif
tee of cojnr.nrce and manufaftures be also
appointed.
The motion was agreed to, and a com
mittee oT ieven members appointed, viz,
Meflrs. Livingfton, Champiin, Grifwoltj,
Schnreman, Swanwick, Grove and Dent.
On motion, the petitions of John le Nor
mand, Henry Sheriot, William Bell, and
the measurers of New-York, were referred
to that committee. Adjourned.
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 22. J
Mr. Chipmaiij from Vermont, Meflrs.
Anderfon and Jackftrn from Tennessee took
their feats in the Senate this day. A quo
rum being afTembled, Mr. Read of South
Carolina was elefted President, pro tempore,
Mr. Jeffcrfon, Vice Precedent of the Uni
ted State?, and President of the Senate be
ing absent.
To-morrow the President of the United
States will ar'-irefs bo:h bouses in the hall
of the Representatives.
♦ 1
A gentleman of this in France,
in a letter to his friend, dated Paris, 30th
September, writes that Mr. Pinckney and
Mr. Marshall had arrived there, and were
treated with much aufleritv by ci.tizei\s Fau
chet and Add, who were appointed to
confer with the American commissioners.
(A.D.A.)
Mr. F_f.nn.o,
1 am requested by Dr. Stevens to inform
the public, that the opinion I quo&d as his,
refpefting the late epidemic, from the au
thority of a paragraph under' the fignature
of an Enquirer y in Mr. Brown's paper cf
the 18th September, is there erroneously
stated. BENJAMIN WYNKOOP.
££> Anyperfons willingta furnifh a quan
tity of POTATOES, not exceeding fifteen
hundred "bushels, for the ufe«f the diltrefs'd
citizens of Philadelphia and Suburbs, are
requeued to fend their proposals in writing
to Samuel Wheeler,No. 99, Vine Street,
or Edward No. 39, Cherry
Street. Nor. 21.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED DAYS
Ship Farmer, M'Collo*i, Bourdeanx
Galliot Bremen Flagge, Meyer,' "< Oporto 49
CLEARED.
Ship Good Friends, Err', Peterfburgh (Virg.)
Brig Delaware, Dunphy, Port-au Prince
AAive, Elliot, do.
Betfcy, Cox, Jcremid
Schr. Fox, Dandelot, Port au-Prince
Two Priends, Crawley, Kingston (Jnm,)
Maria, Flinn, New-Orleana
Bctfey, Brock, LUbon
Slooo r.'F.fpoir, Hirondel, Port-au-Prince
The brig Prmona, Croiket.from the Havanna,
to this po*t, is taken nn -1 carried into Halifax.
From the log book of the brig Abigail. Bab
uls. iron Belfast —Lett there se;,t. 8, the brig
Fanny and Betfcy, iof and fir Cliarlefton, to fait
in J 5 days. Oil. T2, lat. 42. 44, long. 29, 14,
was boarded from a French privateer, out 40 days
from Bordeaux on a cruue, and after examina
tion fuffered to proceed. 20th, fyolte the ship
Mercury, Coates, out 45 rays from Hamburgh to
Boston. 16th, spoke the snip Magnet, out 40
days from London to New-York, all well.,
NewTork, November 21.
Arrived.
Ship Amjlerdam Packet, Crockatt. 4 f
Greenock 42
America, Croiuninjbicld, Calcutta
Schr. Ariel, Toiury, Cayenne 30
Sloop Mary, /,' Homedieu, ' Philadelphia
Maria, King, do.
Eagle, Dimacle, do.
SALES POSTPONED,
On account of the IVcathcr.
On Friday the 24th inftprccifcly at 90'c'ocfc in
t l e morning, will ke fold at C. Emlen's Lumber
Yard in the Northern Liberties, neir the Hay scale*,
all the personal property thee remaining, belong
ing to_the estate of Caleb Emlen, deceafed—con
filling of a large quantity of lumber, &c.
iff Co. Auctioneers.
nr> V 11
400,060 weight of choice &t. Do'
min'go COFFEE,
FOR SALE BY
JAMES YARD
rovember 22. ' diot
For Liverpool,
The copper bottomed Ship
&&3&L Hambur g Packet,
Captain Silas Swain.
A Large prop art ion of her
> JT\. cargo being ready to go on
board, is expe&od to fail on or about Sunday, the
3d of Dec&mUtr.
For Freight or Faffage, apply to the Captain on
board, at Walnut-street Wharf, or to
PHILIP NICKLIN fcf Co.
November 22. §
TO~TE7
at areafonable Rent,
And may be entered on immediately,
A three story brick Hoife, (el-gant and almost
new) contain ng two parlours, a drawing room,
rhree good chamber?, &c. iituited on Front, near
Pine Itseet.
App% 110. 120, South Front flreet.
ncT?mber 22. 3t
HALT 2? WINE,T
at auction.
For sale at 11 o'clock, on Thurfay morning next
on'Morten's wharf, for approved indorsed
at 60 days, about ",500 Salt, from
on boaritbe Folacrs St. Domingo, in lots of
buCi«ls ; alio, 24 c?lks of good Sherry Wine.
Footman 'S Co. Auctioneers,
TI9VCanal Lottery —No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, thezoth
inft. Tickets for Sale in Lottery, at
Stven Dollars, at Wm. BLACKBURN'* Lottery ,
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-drcet—
Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
■f)Mats, where check books are kept ior register
ing and examining in these, the City of Washing
ton, No. 11. and Paterfon Lotteries, and informa
tion where tickets may be had in most of the Lotte
ries authorif«d by law ib any of the States of the
Union.
N. B. The business of a Broker, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and Securities,
difcountng Bills and Notes of Hand, fal<s of
Lands, Houses, &c. &c. will be attended to,
by Wm. BLAC&BURN.
novembcr %$. 5
From Marfellies. *
THE CARGO
Of the Swed'i/h barque Guftavus Adolphus, from
Marseilles, confifiing of the following articles,
is dil'cJurging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
Fa If by the fubferibers
BRANDY, well flavored, of i, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hogsheads
Ditto, in cafe*
Frontigniac Wine, in cases ef 30 bottles
Oliver Oil, of a superior quality, in balkets of 6
and I*2 bottles
Capers
Olives
Almoeds
D*y Venligreafc
Writing Paper
UmUreilas (Silk) of 28, 30 anil jz inches
T affeties
Long and short white Kid Gloves for Women
silk Stockings
Handkerchiefs, in imitation at Midraft
Artificial Flowers apd Garlapds '
Qftrich Feathers
Ribbons
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
Manna in forts
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT
September tj. j
School Books and Stationary.
W. YOUN G,
No. <t, Seeond-ftreet, corner of Chefnut-ftrect,
HAS now ready for sale, a Tery large affoTt
ment of Engliji, Freud, Latin and Greek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Alfa, such elementary books
otl Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATSLf PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Di&ionary,, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo. price 3 dole.
Ditto, large iimo price 1 dol. 75 ets.
Ditto, common, price I dol. 50 cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing:, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Paftehoards,
sheathing and Hotting Papers ; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, ef
the fcoA quality, used in the counting houfc, or
public office.
Catalogues of a mifeellaneeus colleftian of
BOORS, with tie price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring a* above-. OA. 14.—3awiw
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, South Fr*nt Street,
1 H AV ti for. 3 A LI,
103 Hogfhejds of prime Georgia Tobicco,
ALSO,
50 Pipes of Bonrdeaux Brandy,
10 Pipes of old Port ffkir
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper th«o ««y other *>
the City—
OF VARIOUS sizes,
From 8 by 6 to 19 by 14,
By tlje (ingle Box («r Quanti'.y, may be had at the
store of Ibe Subscribers, corner «,f Arch ahd Front
ftreet,
James C. & Samuel W. Fijhcr.
Bhiladtlphia, Jnncq,
Thomas Herman Leuefer,
North Fifth street, corner of North alley, No. 34,
HAS FOR SALE,
EXCELLENT red Bourdeanx Wine in Mies and '
boxes, fix years old
White Sravos Wine in cafkt
Ticklenburgs
Ruflta Sail Clonhs
Ravens Duck
Bag Linen
Hessians
Diaper and Table Cloth
Empty bags
Caramon German Clash
An afTortmcnt of black toldured Ribbon*
Fine German Laces
About twelve tons Ruflia clean Hemp
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in fmaH boxes, for family use
Window Olafs Aug 19. —law
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
Aexaluable Lot of Ground ;
BfTUATE on the north-tail earner of Wal«
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and *n half on Fifth street ; there aFe at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number «f small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saflafras
street,, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
ave the convenience of a public alley adjoining
on the narth fide, and ate a very desirable litua
tion for a merchant, flour fatttor,or others who
may havt occasion for storage of goods. This
property will be fold on very rty.fonable terras
forcafh. For further information apply to the
printer.
July ft m&wtf
This Day is Published,
BY Melf. Bobfon, Carey, Campbell, Ric t) and the
othct Bookfellcrs,
Price One Dollar and twenty-fiveceats.
Elegantly printed on IVuve paper, and Met
prtffed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE Vl£W©F
The Constitutions
Of tha several States with each other, and with
that of the United States: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of eaeh Confutation, and
clalTing together their most important provisions,
under the several heads of administration ; with
Notes and Observations. \
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South-Carolina,
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
' UnitedStatei.
Dedicated to tha People of the United States. 1
N. B. A few Copies printsd oa an inferior pa- 1
per, at j-4th»<if a dollar. I
February 6 mwf 1
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRAHGE,
, Nr>. ii 3 VValnut-ftreet,
INFORMS those who wifli to recur to the onl>;
JL of becoming perfe<sl in che French Lan
guage, that he has just opened his Ljbrarv, ccn
lifting of upwards of 1250 \©lumes the befl cal
cuiated to afford either ufefui inftru»slion, or pica
fure. The conditions, together with a catalogue
of the Library, may be seen at every book-feller's
B in town.
n. b. All translations from and into the French,
I Englifli and Spanish Languages, executed with ac
cupac* and dispatch. eoim nov. T5.
f LAW BOOKS, "
' Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Bookfetlers,
No. I#, South Second, anj No. 50, Market street,
HAVE juts rectived by the lite arrivals from
London and Dublin, their spring importa
-1 tion, confifVicg of a variety of the latsft and nvofl
> approved Law Books, which, added to those alrea
r dy on hand, forms the most cxtenlive collection ev
er offered for sale in this country. They thei efore
f beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their
conne<3icnsin Dublin, they are enabled to felllriih
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowed prices. The following are among the latest
S publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 4 ids.
Peake's C»fes at Nili Prlu6 ; Ridgeway's Hej-orts
in the time of Lord Hardwickn •, Floyer's Proders
Pra<9ice in the Eccleftaftical Courts; Barton's
Trcatife on a Suit in Equity; Tidd's PraSice of
the Court of Kir-g's Bench in Personal Aftions, 1
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, n vols. London edi
tion.
' H. and P. Rice expert to receive by the firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and East's Reports, the »d part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
, new publications.
June 16.
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and will be publilhed,
with all convenient expedition, by ZiCH A-
Riah Poulson, jun. No. 80, Chelnut-ftreet,
; Philadelphia, where fukferiptiont will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to tbe printed proposals, until the
work it ready forthefubferiberi.
July 18. aawltf
• TMISDAY WAS PUBLISHED,
: And for fait by THOMAS DOBSON, at the
Stone lloufe, No. 4>, south Second fireet,
I EVENINGS at HOME ;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
Gonlifting of a variety of Miscellaneous Pieces for
the intrusion and amufementof YOUNG PER
SONS—Six Volumes handsomely prititedand boand
»p in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and of these pieces are
1 such, that the book needs only to be known t* be
, nniverfally tfteemed one of the most valuable pub
, licationsth t cyi be put into the hands of young
: persons. ,
" Delightful task to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea how tv (hoot,
To pour tkt frefli inftruAion o'er the mind,
To brtathe th' enlivening fpirit,and to (ht
The gtnertus purpose in the glowing bread."
Thomson-.
- AuijiAi ~
THIS D -IIY IS PUBLIWKD,
By THOMAS DOSSON, at the Stone House,
No. 4t,foutli Second street,
Letters and Conversations,
Between fevcaal Ycm»gLeJiei,on improving and in
terning fubjefls.
Trttiflated from tbe Dutch of Madunt Je C*mhn
with alterations and improvements,
Printed »ifine paper, and neatly itund,
Price ant doliar.
AM IDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
tales of wttraordinary diftrtfs, or ef desperate 'or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
wbi£h it would be for the honor of youag ladies So
be ignorant ef, this little book comes forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, beeaufe
elegant and natural dirnity and importance of tht Female
dbarafter is exhibited in an intereftingpeiat of view,
and present* examples of real and attainable excel
lente.
Tht publisher was so much pleased with tht ptra
f»l, that ht was persuaded he Ihould do a pleasing
ftrrfte to tht community by fending it in:o circu
lation. Aiguft 24 —mw<w
Aft laying Duties on Stamped Vellum
Parchment and Paper.
A FEW copies of the above aA may be had a)
he Office of tha Sazette of the United States, No.
119, Chefout-ftreet. July 19,
, Lancaster, Harrijburgb Carli/le,
Sbippenjburgand Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requcfted to take notice, that
the partnerihip which Ins for foraetfmt fnb-
Ciled between Mathias Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now diflolved: but, not as M.
Slough infinnattste the pablie without just cause ;
as will mvre fully appear by a letter on the fifb
jedl from M. Slough to W. (Jeer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital el which is not now deem
ed necessary. Any gentleman who wiflies to be
more circumstantially informed of the merits of
this buftnefs, by applying to W. Geer may have
the perafal of M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfeflly juftifiable in attaching him
felf to any other person in the profecutian of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous fopport the i
public were pleased to'confcr on the firft effort in
this business, V! illiam Geer, in conjunction with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
toprofecnte and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fefe and commodious, inform
thoft wno wish to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the Whitfc Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Mondhy
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlille and Shippcnfburg. The fare as hitherto
eftablilhed.
For the further accommodation of the public,
s Stage will-start every Wednesday from the house
of Ratnucl Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
and return frJm thence and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that paiTengers destined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed on Mon-
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 17, 1797-
N. B. This Line of Stages starts from ths
houfc of William Ferrec, in Lancaster. on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the houfc of
Mr. Srtiiufl Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning, on tite fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippcnfburgarrd returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing tha
fame routint daily at in Us tour lrom Philadel
phia. m»'f
Ike printers in the United Srate»s<wv rcq&fcj
t> tnfirt tie following Ohftri<al','Ms in thesr
fnpfrs, by -which the fi!iilic will be ftrr'cd,
as will as their obedient servant.
B. LINCOLN, Superinteniant of
Liibt-Houfes,. State of Majfaehnfetts,
By oider of the United States, a Light lluufe
nas ijeen freoied at the Clay Tn ids, on Cape.
Cod ; the tanps in which are to be lighted 011
the 15th inlt. The light haute i; eretfed on,
land elevatedabout 150 feet, which with the e
levation of the Lantern makes the whole heiyhth
zoo high water mirk. In order that
this Light ipty be distinguished from the 80/ fan
and other Lights «n oyr coafl, an Eclipfer is e
reilcd, which will revolve around the Lamps
once in 80 seconds so that the Kg fit will be neir
ty excluded from the eye of the approaching
mariner about thirty seconds, ir> one 1 revoluti
on of the eclipfer.-' To lender the beqavolcnt
designs of Congress as extWfively ufeful as pos
sible, the Marine Societyjin Boiton, by a large
Cor*m:ttee from theirjbody, whose views have
been leconded by .others, have taken fueh di! •
tances and hearings as tHev tloHght n'ece.Tary ;
whirh ohf.Tvations giving light and fafety are
added for the benefit of all interefled—and an
as follows
Veßels outward bt und, from Bbfton Light-
I house, and would with to fall in with Cape-Cod
j the course is E. S. E. distance 15 leagues, thence
| 3 leagues to tiie Light house. When up with
1 the Light-house and it bears S W 2 leagues dif
] tance, you then fleer S S E which will ca#y
j yo'j out of the south channel.
Veflels inward bound, and fall in with the
bade of Cape-Cod, bri»g the Light to bear S W
2 leagues distance* then you may steer WNW
for Boston Ligjit-Houfe.
It you you would with to go into Cape Cod
harbor, you may keep the (hose aboard abont
a mile diftailt, where you \»illh*ve 10 fathoms
water. There is a bar lies off the back of the
Cape, about half a mile from the (hore.
When up with Racejpoint. which is very
bold, and about three leagues to theweftward of
the Light-house, and m>y be known by a num
ber of fi(h houses on 'it, from 1 to 3 miles to
the fouttward of Race-point, is what is called
Herring Cove, where you imy have good at>-
chering half * mile from the (hore, tho wind
from p to N N,£ iH 4 or even 3 fathom water.
If bound into ( Cape Cod harbor, your course
from Racc-p&nit to' Wood ead, h S S E 6 miles
distance, bring the light to bear E hy N and
run for it about two miles, you will tflen be
clear c( Wood end—then you must steer N E
until the light bears E by S—then run N W
f.r the harbor, until you have from 4 to 3 i-j
fathoms water, where you have good anchor
ing, the Light then will bear E by S J-J S 5 or
6 miles distance.
In running from the Race point to Wood
End—after you pass 1 the slack Land of Hum
mucks, you will come up with a low fapdy
beach, which forms the harbor ; extending be
tween j and ) miies -to Wood-end, which is
difficult to be distinguished in the night—lt is
very bold—you will have 15 fathom watvr
within half a mile ofthelhore.
In beating into Cape-Cod harbor, you must
keep the eastern (hore aboard, until you get in
to 5 fathom water. Stand no farther to the
westward than to bring the light to bear E by S
as theie is a long spit of sand runs off from the
fctin" vrrj: juu-^+h
havc II fathunrwatci- within a ftojies thr*w of
Ihore.
In caff it blows so hard that you canoot beat
in the harbor, you \yill have gpod anchoring
without, from 10 to 15 fathom water.
VeiTuls in Boston bay and would with to put
away for Cape Cod harbor, must endeavor to
fall ia with the Rae*. If in the night, and*you
cannot fee the land, you mpft bring the Light
to bear E by N and run for it ont(l you have
foundings in 14 or water, then steer
nortli east until th* flight bears E by S then .un
in N W fgr the harbor.
At full and change, it is high water off Race
Point at 10 o'clock and minutes. Veflels in
leaving Cape Cod bouhd to Boston, fhsulil cal
culate the tide, as the flocd sets strong to the
south weft.
JOHN FOSTER WILLIAMS, ~\Committe
NATHANIEL GOODWIN, ( from the
JOHN CRUFT, (" Marine
JOHN HILLS. ) Society
THOMAS BARNARD, A branch Pilot
for the port of 80/Im
SOLOMON COOK, J Residence at Pro-
ELIJAH NICKERSON, J "jmcetonCapeCod
At a Meeting of the Marine Society, held at
Concert Hall, on Tuesday 7thjN«v. 1797 —the
above Report of its Committee was read and
approved and ordered to be published.
By order of ihe Society,
THOMAS DENNIE, Prrfident.
WILLIAM FURNESS. Sec'ry,
City of Washington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For lie Impro-zmtdt .of the Federal City.
AlaagnificentdwcUifig-boufe 20,ooodolUrs,
& caih 30,000, ire 50,000
1 ditto 15,000 & east *5,000 40,000
1 ditto *5,000 Sc east 15,000 30,000
x ditto 10,000 St citb to,ooo 30, 000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,00© 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & oath 5,000 10,000
I cafti prize of ro,ooo
1 do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
30 do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 , - , 10,000
»oo do. 50 v - - 10,000
460 do. at - - 10,000
1,000 do. »o - 30*000
15,008 do. so - 150,000
16,739 Pri"s.
33,361 Blanks. ,
5c,0c0 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,60®
N. B. Tofvrour thofcwho may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars.will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but on* :
And approved notes, fccuiing payment in either
monsy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received for any number not less than 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford a» elegant specimen of
tHe private buildings to be ert&ed in the City of
Walhington—Two beautiiul designs are already
lelefled for the entire fronts on two of the public
squares; from those drawings it inpropofed toeredl
two centreaad c ow ei»rner beildings,as soon as pos
sible after tfcis lotMty isfold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hctel
Lottery. A.nett deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the necessary cxpenfes of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a p<nt of
the fund intended for the National University, to
be erected within the city of Wafnington.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Erizes, are held by the Prefidcnt and two Direfl.-
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amouqt of the lottery.
SAMUEL BLODOET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colum
bia ; of James Well & Co. Baltimore ; of £cter
Oilman, Boston ; of John Hopkins, Richmond :
and of Richard Wells, Cooper's Ferry. mwf
A Negro Man.
TfOR SALE, the unexpired me (four years)
w. of a stout, healthy, a&ive fgro Man. He
is by'ride a Cooper, wasbrought up when ahoy
to the farming bufmefs, is a good ploughman, un
derftandstha care and management of horses, and
is a good drive; - He has lately been employed in
palming a new house azd paints well—he is good
tempered, and believed to be very honelt, fold part
ly for want of employ, but more for being addiit
ed to liquor,—For terms apply to No. 13, Dock
street, nc-ar Spruce Arcct.
Nov. 6. t.f
The Philadelphia, jltfton, and 1 uckertun
MAIL STAG E.,
proprietors beg leavs ; to inform ike public, 'bat
JL they have efablijbed a Stage between Pbilpdetylie,
Aif ion, Batjlo, Hampton y Sptelwell, and Martha Fur
nace t Wading River flitting rwlt, and the tonvn of Turf,-,
ertan, in Neu'-Jerfey, to go orrce a week, and are provi
ded with good horses y a comfortable carriage, and a care
ful driver, for the conveyance of the mail,paJJtngers, and
goods. TL>e Stage will fart every Thursday, at IO
o'ciOck, A. M. from Mr. Daniel Cooper s Ferry, and
lodge that night at "Joel Bodine s, at Longacoming ; and
on on Friday, at 6 o'clock, P. M. arrive at Caleb E
vans*s f inkecper y in Tuckerton, diflant from the sity
miles, (from the Atlantic 6, andfrom the Fetfl .Groujing
Plains 7 miles J where arc good accommodation) for tra
vellers, and where arc commodious and fafe passage boats
provided to con vey passenger s to Capt. William War
rington s house, on Tucker s IJland, adjoinining the At
lantic, where are good accommoaatiov.s, and a convenient
place to bathe ; the sportsman whowijhes to regale himfelf
with fowling andJifhing, may at this place be highly gra
tified, there being at almofl every feafsn of the year fowl
ar.ifjt in abundance.—The Stage on its return, farts j
from the aforefaid+JL. Evans's in Tucker ton, every Tvaf
day% at 6 o'clock, A. M. breaJfafis at John Bodine's, at
Wading River Bridge, lodge that night at Longacoming,
and at 1 o'clock, P, AT. on Wednesday, arrive at the
aforefaid Ctoper's Ferry. It is presumed that no route of
an equal difiancc will be less expinftve, or furnifb the tra
voller with a greater variety of amufemc-it, as he will
not only lave a pleasant fail to th; atlantic from Tuoler
ton, but have the euriofity of feeing on the road thither a
number of capital furnaces and forges, and one Jli/ting
mill, incomplete order, and at work ; gentlemen, too, who
are owners, or favors, of any of the aforefaid iron works,
are solicited to encourage and support this sage (by wb.ch
they can be so well accommodated J the continuance of which j
will much depend on their aid. The rates of pajfengcrs J
and bjggagt are as fallows : For a passenger from tb'e j
aforefaid Daniel Cooper's Ferry to Tuckcrtin, including (
14 lb. of baggage, Two Dollars ; for way passengers
per mile, Four Cents- 150 lb. of baggage equal to a paf
f'nrrer. Fof age of letters, newspapers, \*fc. will be
agreeably to law. .
N. B. The mail crofjesfrcm the Old Ferry.
THOMAS WARD LB Co.
Tucker ton, Sept. 28. o<s?. 5 2 atvf f
"The"NorfolFMaU STAGE.
THIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
at the corner of Secoad and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every TmfJay, TbmrftUy, and Satur- 1
day, at 3 o'clock, ia the nrorning; arrives at)>o
vcr the firft day, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Coprt House the third day, and oa
the morning of the fourth day the pafengers find
a fafe and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferrjr,
every Tucfday, Thursday and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Friday ;'putsup at_Snow
Hiil tnefirft night, at Dover" the 'la m§Tit > 'an^ar^ J
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
The distance on this route, between Philadelphia '
and Norfolk, is 80 miles less than on any ft*ge route
between thdfe places.
Too much cannot befaid ia £jnror of the road,
which is most excellent ifideed. 'flic proprietors !
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
pafTenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
Anguft 11. dim. eotf.
Erfkine's View of the War.
JUST
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No. 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Centa]!
A View of the Gaufes and Con/iqueri
ces of the present War with France.
By the Honorable Thomas Buskin*.
May 15 §
STATE TRIALS.
Sold b W. Yoon-g, Bookseller, No. s*, South Sa
cond-ftreet,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acquit
al of FrancisHopkinfon, Judge of theCeurt of
Admiralty, and John Nieholfoe, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, t
<follar>.
W. Yodng has fqr sale, a general afforimentof
Book?. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
ege, well aflortejl, and entitled to the drawback if
axpertcd. July y— *
For Sale,
Thai *utll known place, called VAunf.ann-f's
FIUY,
ON Ne/hamißy creek, 18 miles from Phili
ladelphia, on the Nevr York post road,
containing 74 acres and 94 perches. Oponthe
premifesare a large two story stone houle occu
pied as a tvern, and a gopd one story stone kit
chen, a large frame stable with a good threshing
floor, and fomc out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. Ob
this place is a most elegant fituatidn fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nelham
iny to injunction wiih the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jersey shore. ft has tte privilege
of one half the tollreceived frcm the bridge.
For terifts apply to the SnWcriber,.
MORDECAI LEWIS.
May 24- 3law«f.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpeft, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
file has received during four years refiden»e it>
Philadelphia ; and allures her friends and the
public, so far 1 from intending to decline her
school, (he has madea fyperior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of h£r
scholars. —Every branch of ufeful arid polite
education i 9 particularly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and mailers excelling iri their
refpeiliveprofeflions.
Corner of Spruce Jnd Eleventh Streets.
June jtli, 1797. Jimfef
Tnefttuatiqn is perfe&ly healthy ; asdmade
more agreeable by an cxtenfivc garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
Jujl Publi/hed,
And to be had of Messrs. Dobfin, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfeiiers in the
city .price one dollal, twinty-five cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
; Tribes and Nations of America.'
I By BENJ.4JMIN SMITH BAR7OII, m. d.
June to.
Philadelphia, 03. 13.
THE fubfcrlher? inform their friends an J cufto
mcrs in town and country, that their flcres are now
open in the city, and others are daily opening, and
that from the present appearance of the prevailing
disorder have reason to hope, their friends may
shortly come to the city with perfect By
fcveial late arrivals, numbers have received fre&
supplies of GOOD.S.
Robert Smith & Co. P. W. Gallaudet & C».
John Davis iff Co. Sitgreaves & French,
Neii'l & Smith, George Dob/on,
Wilfbergtr and Smith, Thomas Ryerfon,
Alex Bilflatid and Co. T. R. Hardenberg.
"Jacob Sperry and Co. John Smith and Co-
Owen iy Jona. Jones, Thomas Orr,
Keppele vi Zantzinger, William Barker & Co.
Adam Zantzinger, Thomas Armat & Son.
John Fries, J. Miller, jun. and Co,
Benjamin &J. JobnJbn.
Odl. 14
POYNTELL's
Paper Hangings Manufactory,
No. "jo, Chefnut-ftreet,
Wbirc be bas for Sale,
AVERY extensive (lock, of every colour, and
of the mu(L approved patterns, suitable for
every part of a house, with great variety of bor
ders to suit.
ALSO
A hsndfome aflortment of the mod faftionable
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
very tuft pain Green and plain Blue,
With Pannel Papers and a rich variety of Border,.
November T. eo6t
Will be Landed,
From on board the Ihip A&ive, Capt.Blair,from
Hamburgh,
19 bales white Ruflia clean Hemp
4 cartes Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Fifth ftrcet, No. 34.
June 26. §
Imported inthefhipMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Shewell, Master,
' From Bourdeaux, and for file l>y the fobferiber,
No. 11 Walnut Street.
Bourdeaux Brandy "J
! Irilh market claret in cifes ( Entitled to
; Medoc wine, in do. f Drawback,
i Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatroyd.
WHO HAS roft SALE.
Sherry' Wine in pipes and quarter caflos
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bags
4x300 bushels Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stfc
To be Sold at Pablie Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private fait)
ON Friday, the firil of December next, it,flx
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchant*' Cof
fee House, in Philadelphia. Forty Thousand Nina
Hundred and Thirty Nine acres of LAND,
now or late in the County of Washington, and Com
monwealth of Pennsylvania, and 'n the wikters of
Frefli and Wheeling Creeks and Ten Mile Run.—
These Lands are ferule and well timbered, and wcr«
j patenteed early in 1787, except 3700 acres ortherea
| bouts, which were patented in One fourth
, «f ihe purchase paid at the time of sale,
for iherehdue a credit of one, two and three monthe,
will be given, on intareft and good feeurity.
Prober 6. * 32WtS
lo be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before Aijpvfcd ef c. private fait)
QN* Friday, the nrll d»y of December, it fnc
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
House. in Philadelphia, Twenty Six Thousand Se
van Hundred and Eighty acres of LAND, in the
State of New-York, betwern the northern hounds
of Pfnnfylvania and the new, or late,
in the townfliips of Hamd«<i and Warren, and coun
ty of iMontgomerv One fonrth of the p«rchafe
money U to be paid at the time of sale ; for ihe le
fidue a credit of one, two, and three months will be
given, on interest and good feeurity.
Oftofte 6. 3awtS
Peale's Museum.
THIS valuable repository ■of the works of Na
ture, so well calculated* delight the mind
and enlarge the understanding, is opened daily, as
usual. It (lands in an airy and healthy fitnation,
and free from the epidemic that at present afflids
the city ; it may, therefore, be frequented whh
the greateft-fafety.
As an Aisufcment, the ftudyof Nature is the
mod rational and pleating : as a Science, the most
sublime and infiru<Slive. It elevates the mind and
expands the heart. They
44 Whom Nature t works can charm y tuitb Sod bimfelf
" Hold convcrfe
Many interring additions have lately been
made to this Museum : and the feathered tribe,
containing a variety of the most rare and beautiful
fubje&s, is now very advantageously arranged.
\Vaxen Figures, of Men large as life (some of them
cafls from nature) are here drcfled in their proper
habits, and placed in attitudes cbara&eri&ic of tkerr
refpetflive nations. Here may be seen the North-
American Savage, and the lavage of South-Ameri
ca—a laboring Chinese, and the Chinese Gentle
man—the sooty African, and the Kamtfchadak—
with some Natives of the South Sea Islands. The
immeufe variety and intcrefting diversity which
this Museum offers to ths view, may befecnbwt
oannotbe described with full eflTe&.
g? Price only l-4th of a dollar.
Seyt. a 3. law
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 319, High-Striet.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING bufiei for some time past in prepara
tions for removing into his profent houfc, h».»
been under theneceflityof poftponiHguntil thi« d*y
informing the.gentlemen of the Bar generally thro*
ths United States, that his spring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for l»le, on
termsthat he trusts will entitlehim to thalike p*-
freonce he has esperiepced for leveral years p-(i.
Catalogues, combining the most varied collec
tion ever imported i/ito this cou&try, are printad
and will be delivered on application.
June XT- v law
Boston Glal's Manufad;orv.
j
THE citizens of thk United States ar« hereby
informed, that the rr.snufaaure of Window
G ass is now commenced it the GlatsHoufe in Bos
ton.
It is needless to fay nnr thing of the excellent
quality of the Dofcon Gbfs, as it isfo well Itnowfc
throughout the United States to be in every rejpedl
greatly fupirior to any ever imported from Etrope.
It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
maybe constantly had by applying to Cua*lii f.
KoprEß. at the Glass Hotfe.
Orders from the distant States Co be aitireCfed t»
Mr. Samuel Gori, Conrt-ftreet, Boston.
Boftob, Sept 30,1797 'O4—2awiw
Mrffn. Timothy and Cbarlrjhm ; Mcffrt.
and Bcylan, Halifax, N. C. Mcjfrs. IVilUtt
and O'Connor. KorftU ; My. Ellis Price, Alexandria ;
Mejfn. Tmuft and£ro~.vsi, Bullion-* s Mr. H O -th Wl
Neu -rori ; and Me/,s. 'Hari.
ford ; Mr. Sitfmttr, Savanaub ; at, rioutfud to mfi#
*h °" u " ■""* 6 He t< to it fir
ivarise 1* tie Editor.
0c 1 ?. 5 • —Zd-wf f