of tire Snttetj J&tates AND Philadelphia Dai
Numbek 161 I.J
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For D R r GOODS.
r'Forenoon —Edward Fox, No. 56,
M j J south Front-street,
V) Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
(' South Front -ftwet.
f Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
r . j Auition, No. 73 south l'ront-ftreet.
Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
£ 183 High-street.
itr j rj { Afternoon —Peter Benfon, No. 74
Wedxefday j south Third . ftrcet .
f*. ~ C Forenoon—Edward Fox.
Iburfday J Afternoon—John Connelly,
i- ~ 7 Forenoon —William Shannon.
r " S Afternoon—John Connelly.
Saturday Afternoaß—Peter Benfon.
.UmtEii States, 1 ~
Pennsylvania Dijlricl, y^'
IN pursuance ol » writ to me direSed from the
Honorable Hiciiakd PtTiRS, Esq. JuJge of the
piftrid Court of the United States in and for the
PennfylvaniaDiftrifl, will be expofedto PUBLIC
SALE, at the Cutlom-houfe, in th* city of Phi
ladelphia, on Friday, the 17th in 11. at 11 o'clock
at noon,
1 hampers of Earthen Ware
1 box of Indigo
1 box of Merchandize
I half barrel do.
>0 bags of Coffee
I barrel of Salt Petre
3 barrels}
I keg >of Linens
I trunk J
X barrel ef Sugar
I bag of Pepper, and
Part of 3 bag« of Sugar
The ame having been lihelled againfl, profecutcd
and condemnc ! as forfeited, in the said Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marjhal.
Marlhal's Office, \ *
ad Novembrr, 1797. \ dtS
(►United States, ) ~ .
Peunfylvania Di/lrid, y"'
IN pursuance of a writ to me dire&ed from the
honorable Richard Piters,Efq. Judge of the
Diftri& Court of the United States, in and for the
Pennsylvania Diftri&, will be exposed to PUBLIC
SALE, at the Cuttom-houfe in the city of Phila
delphia, on Friday, the 17th ioft. at la o'clock,
at noon,
354 Silver Watches
30 gold Watches
500 Watch Keys
The fame having been libelled against, prosecuted
and condemned an forfeited, in the said Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marjhal.
Marlhal's Office, 7
ad November, 179;. ) dtS
To be Sold, by Public Vendue,
On Monday, the 13th day of November next,
at 11 o'clock in the forenoon, at the late dwel
ling plantation of Alexander Porter, Esq.
deceafed.iti the Hundred and County of New-
Castle,
All the Stock of the said Farm,
Confiding of horfee fit for draught or saddle,
Colts, fat cattle, milch cows, calves, several
pairs of large and valuable oxen. £keep and
hogs (all the horned rattle and sheep, being of
a very large and fine breed) and also carts, har
rows, ploughs, and other farming utenfik, to
gether with a variety of household furniture.
The conditions of Sale will be made known,
at the time and place aforefaid.
Mary ■Porter, Admrx.
New Castle Hundred, State of ?
Delaware, Oil. 20, 1797. )
gr All persons indebted to the estate of the
said Alexander Porter, are requcfted to make
payment, and those who have demands against
the Ciine, to produce them duly authenticated,
for settlement.
Oa. 30. *S
Wants a Place, as a WET NURSE,
A YOUNG Woman, who can be well recom
mended.—Enquire of the Printer.
Oiftober jl. lw
The Subscribers have for Sale,
THE FOLLOWING GOODS—viz.
India Calicos Cordage
Baftas ' MouldCandlei") infmall
Sutty Romals White Soap _J boxes
Blue and red do. Ea(£lndia Sugar
Hummums Heavy black Pepper
Mulmuls ' Holland Gin, in pipes
Do. Handkerchiefs Red & white Port Wine
Sprigged and flowered Old Madeira Wine, fit
fine Muslins for immediate us«
Book Muslins Sherry
Bed Covers, of printed Claret, in cases
Muslin Taunton Ale
India Persians Englilh Porter
Dorcas 41 qr. calks Gun Powder
Black Taffeties A wrought iron Book
Chinese Sewing Silks Cafe
Eall India Hemp
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
November 1.
Philadelphia, 08. 13.
THE fubferibers inform their friends and cufto
tners in town and country, that their (lores are now
open in the tity, and others are daily opening, and
that from the present appearance of the prevailing
disorder have reason to hope, their friends may
(hortly come to the city with perfeCl fafty. By
several late arrivals, numbers have received freOi
supplies of GOODS.
Rtbert Smith ly Co. P- W. Callaudet & Ci.
John Davis Co. Sitgreaves is" French,
A'till & Smith. George Dtbfon,
Wiltberger and Smith, Thomas Ryerjon,
Alex Biljland and Co. T. R. Hardenberg.
Jacob Spcry and Co. John Smith and Co•
Owen & Jona. Janes, Thomas Orr,
Kefpele & Zantzinger, H'illiam Barter t? Co.
J Jam Zantzmger, Thomas Armat 15 Son.
John Pries, J < Miller, jun. and Co.
Bf'jamm \&J. Join/an.
o<a. 14
Wanted,• to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centra of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given; to be taken for a year, or on
lease for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer.
oa. 17- cots
PHILADELPHIA: TUESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 7, 1797.
For Liverpool,
r-iJS. The Ship
clothier,
Gardner, majler,
AT7"ILL fill ah.uit the If tii
«-*Ji»rl3BiiS-» W i n (l. F or freight Or pas
sage ajiply to the Captain, at Vanuxem's wharf,
or to JAMES 01-ODEN,
nov. j. dtf No 41. N. Front-street.
For Baltimore,
£ et f e y & Peggy*
John Stran, Majler,
A VhRY t»ft failing vessel, with good accommo
dations for PafTcngcri—Now lying at the wharf next
bciow Market-ftrect. She has about half her cargo
on boaid, and will be ready to depart in a few days.
For freight or passage apply to the Matter on board,
or to
Samuel & Miers Ft/her.
11 mo *. dgt
Port and M adeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By ship Edward, from Madeira, and Betsey and
Peggy, fr«-ai Oporto, in Pipes and Hogftieadi,
For sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFfcR* FOR SAL*,
The Ship
AMITY,
Foot thousand barrels burthen,
xn excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo—about three years eld.
likf Wist,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 barreU, ready aifo to receive a car
go—and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Just landed from the above veflels at South ftrcet
wharf. eoim. Nov. 1.
i? or London,
WILLIAM* PENN,
James Jofiah, Majler,
''' . vr riLL fail with all conven
' VV ient expedi'ion. For
Freight or Passage, apply to the Captain, or to
JeJfe t3* Robert Wain.
Oft- 3f. 6
For Charter,
THE SHIP
y°^ n Bulkley,
Samuel Volans, Majler.
r'HIS vessel it built of live oak
1 and cedar, of about 3000
barrels burthen, and rrady to receive on board a
cargo.
Jeffe Sff Robert Wain.
OA. 31. £_
" For SAVANNAH,
THK FAST SAILING SHIP
Swift Packet,
Patrick Gribbin, Majler.
irSy? 3 "- NOW lying at Smith's wharf,
aboveßace-flreet. Is haudfome
ly accommodated for passengers, and will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or paffage,apply
to the Master on board, or at No. 95, South
Front-street, or of the'fuhferibers,'
N. & J. Frazier.
OA. aB. dtf
For St. Thomas's,
THE DANISH BRIG
P r,nce -Frederick,
ySS-t',.Francis Geolfi, Majler.
WILL fail with all convenient speed, having
the greater part of her cargo ready to go
on board. For Freight or Passage, apply to the
Captain, or to "JOSEPH SIMS.
OA. aB. §6t
For London,
r J-V THE SHIP
Daniel M'Pherfon, Majler.
TO fail with all convenient speed—a contidera
blc part of her cargo being alreadjrengaged.
For terms of Freighter Passage. apply to
Rofs is? Sim/on.
oa. ij. 6
For Freight or Charter,
Abel Catherina,
Burthen about 160 tons.
THIS vessel is now ready to receive on board a
cargo, atid maybe difpatchedto any port in Eu
ropeor the Mediterranean in eight days.
Apply to the Captain en board, or to the fabferi
ber. JAMES YARD.
O&. 19. diet
or Charter,
THE GOOO BRIG
s U K E Y,
aac Vredenburg, Maftcr ;
"NOW lying at Clifford's wharl.and in compleat
order to receive a cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain en board, or
John Slyrin,
No. 81, Arch-street.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
2000 wt.of double refined Saltpetre
600 wt. of F F Gun Powder
300 barrels of Herrings
50 bufheU of Timothy Seed
150 cafe? of Claret, firll quality
And a quantity of Sherry Wine.
Sept. 19.
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing from on board the
Brig William Williams, Master,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale bv
Jehu H'Alingfworth (zf Co.
Wilmington, Sept. aI. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
TByra&jjjEfc, and the brig GAYOSO, arc
also for Sale or Charter, and
now ready to receive a cargo
on board, at Wilmington, Apply as above.
By John Fenno, N° 119 Cbefnut Street.
For Amftcrdam,
j The Sh ip
fcp&lir WILMINGTON,
Captain Hllman •
A Staunch, f"ti lui'iiig, Phi- J
la<i<rlphia built vessel, of (
liveoali and cedar, is now in complete order, and £
v. ill fail with ajl poQiblc speed, having great part of I
her cargo already engaged. For freight or pas- ]
fuge (having excellent accommodations) apply to (
the captain 011 bo:ird, or to ]
Summerl Iff Brown. !
Wbo have on hand, (
Gonaives Cotton, Sugar, Mo- <
lasses, and a few thousand weight of excellent Cor '
da»e, including several Cables of 8i &11 inches,
noveniher 3. tuth&ntf 1
]
Now Landing,
At Sims* Wharf, from on board the (hip Commerce,
captain Cuam*erlain, irojn Port aa Prime*,
35 hoglheads of SUGAR ,
84 do. MOLASSES
4 tierces do. <
EOS SALE, BT ]
Philips, Cramond, iff Co. l
oa. 47. ' §
James Sff Richard Smith,
TAKE the liberty of informing their friends
and the public, that they have removed their
(lore to No. Scuti Frtnl-Jlrcrt, next door to Ed
ward Fox's Auition Kooni, where they have at
this time for sale, a large and general assortment of
European isf Eaji India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
William Penn, &c. &c.
Ofl. 17. S
St. Croix Sugar & Rum,
For Sale by
JOHN NIXON W Co.
o<st. »6. diw.
Samuel Pleafants fsf Sons,
No, 74, South Second-Jlreety
HAVF received a supply x>f Seaionable GOODS,
which they are now opening for sale, on
reafonabie terms. OA 17.—4w
RE M OVA L.
Maurice Moynihan,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he
has removed his Store of China, Glals, Queens
Ware, and Dry Goods, from No. 81 North Se
cond, to No. 71 North Seventh Street, north east
corner of Cherry AUey, where he solicits the fa
vor ofhis former customers.
N. 11. Crates put up with care at the Ihortell
notice.
November ». dtf
ROSS fcf SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, GofTas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincenti, V RUM.
and Bengal j
OA. 17. $
To Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Board—at No. 114. corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. 0(9. 17. —dtf
For sale by the'Subfcriber,
No. 89, South Third street, '
A few calks of high proof Brandy
60 Tierces frefh Rife
40 Boxes of t hocolate
A large quantity of assorted window glass, and
100 pieces fail cloth, No. I to 8
Ravens Duck, Mare and Gum Senegal.
Samuel Breck, Jun.
N. B An excellent Compting House to let on
Roils's wharf.
November % * 6teod
Wharton and Lewis,
HAVE FOR SALE,
At their Store and Insurance Office for {hipping,
No. in, South Front flrect,
Jamaica Rum, 4th proof, "> entitled to
Alicant Brandy, ift & id proof j drawback.
Madeira Wine, and
A few hoglheads of Juniper Berries.
o(Sobcr3i. eotl
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front Street,
HAVE FOR SALE,
100 Hoglheads of prime Georgia Tobacco,
ALSO,
50 Pipes of Bonrdeaux Brandy,
10 Pipes of old Port Wine*
Ofl. 17. latutf
Clocks and Watches,
Of everv description, opening for Sale, by
EPHRAIM CLARK,
At his New Corner of
MARKET and FRONT STREETS.
—A l. SO
An extetifive and general assortment of
Tools, Files, and Materials.
CONSISTING OF
Clock Movements and Clock Dials, eight day
and thirty hours cast brass, forged work and Pin
ions, Bells and Hands, Cat Gut, screw and draw
Plates, Turkey Stones, Pumice, Emsry and Rot
ten Stone, Springs and Ghffas, Chains Keys, Seals
&c- See. Spring and ftandiftg Clocks.
Pit. eotf
Philadelphia, Oa. 14th, 1797.
ALL persons defirousto contrail to farnilh Ra
tions and Quarter Matter's Stores, during the
year 1798, for the troops in Philadelphia, Fort
Mifflin, on Mud Island, Carlisle ana Reading, or
any of them, are desired to deliver their proposals,
under a sealed cover, on or before the icth No
vember next. to • >
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
The Rations to eonjjl oj
I pound Flour or Bread
j pound Beef, or 3 4 of a pound of Pork
£ gill Rum, Brandy or Whiskey
1 lb. Candlts S
i 1 * ' T, - To every hundred rations
a quarts Vinegar ( ■
1 quart Salt J . > MfngthN
FOR SALE,
Br the subscribers, No. it, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges, L
John Green, commander, from Bengal,
Confft it,g of
Baftas, of various qualities & prices
Celiacs Punjum Cloths
Sanah* (Suzz y do.
Humhums CharconnsrDorea
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmula
Mamoodys Checks j (
Maharagonges Pataa Hhkfs.
Ginghams Mulmul do.
Guzzenas Bandanno#s
Gurrahs Siflcrfoy j
Piniafcocs Choppa Romals v
Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Persians of various colours j
Mock t
300 tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER. c
Willings & Francis. c
In the course of a few days, the PIECE a
GOODS, composing the cargo of th* ship Gangt s,
will be exposed for l'alc at that large commodious e
Store, the northwest corner of Market and Fourth r
streets, whire a bale of every species of Goods will a
be open. d 0(9. 31.
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, firit quality, in
pipes
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pipes 3
Lisbon WINK, in pipe*
CLOVEStnd? rui» <v • . •t, *
NUTMFG3 \ °* t ' le * importation, mboxes j
Spanilh Wool, in Bales, suitable for Hatters.
Wi.'lirigs if Francis,
Penn-ttreet, No. ax.
Nov. i. w&stf j
Jult arrived.
From Port-au-Prince, and for Sale by the fubferi
bers, No. ai, Penn-ftreet,
hog(bead»,^\
i Prime Coffee
523 barrels (
646 bags J
Willings Ssf Francis.
o«. it. §
L AFDING,
From on board thelhip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
cohimander, from London,
60 tons of the belt clean Ruflia
HEMP
60 rafts of bottled BROWN STOUT.
For Sale by the fubferibers, No. ai, Penn-ftreet.
Willings & Francis.
OA. 31. d
In the Press,
And speedily will be published by William
Young, No. 52, Second, the corner ef
Chefnut Street,
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ;
On the principles eftablilhed in th« elements
of Medicine, of the late velebratert
JOHN BRO WN, M. D.
With an attempt to correft forhe important er
rors of that woik, and cases in illustration, chief
ly feledled from the records of their praflice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br WILLI.HM TaTIS & Ch.IS. MACLE.It/.
To which i* subjoined, a Trearife on the aVlion
of Mercury upon living bodies, anil its applica
tion for the cure of dilcafes of debility
Andadiflertaiion anthe sources of Epidemicand*
Peftilentialdifeafes; in whichisattempted toprcve
by a nuinrrous induflion of fails, that they ne
ver arilir from contagion, but are always produ
ced by certain Hates, or certain vicilfitudes of
the atmofpliere, by Chaklls Maclfan, of
Calcutta.
oa. ji. #"t
POYNTELL's
Paper Hangings Manufactory,
No. 70, Chefnut-ftreet,
Wbtrc be b-u fur Sale,
AVERY extensive stock, of every colour, and
of the moll approved patterns, suitable for
every part of a house, with great variety of bor
ders to suit.
—ALSO —
A handsome assortment of the mod fafliionafile
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
very best p'ain Green and .plain Blue,
With Pannel P-pers and a rich variety of Borders.
November I. eo6t
At the Federal Blast Furnace,
In Carver —;for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
Mil ls.
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THEIR Juperiority conjijls in being free from
botes and honey-combed places, which are com
monly found in rollers caji in sand, or clay
moulds. Theft patent rollers are cafl in iron
moulds, prevloujly heated, and will be found to
be mare dense, solid and durable than any rollers
heretofore tifed. Another important advantage
they, have over others, is, that the necks require
no turning, but are immedaitely fit for use, and
from their accuracy, run with less frißim, and
require less water to make them perform their
•work. 7bey may be had by application to the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. Nathaniel Good
win, or ofiMeJfrs. Thatcher aid Hay ward
Boflon', Aug. 31. Sept. 19. §6t.
This Day is Published,
BY Med. Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Kicc, and the
othej Booksellers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegant 'y printed on IVovr paper, and Hot
prejfed,
By John Thompson,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
t Of th* several States with each other, and with
r that of the United States 1 exhibiting in Tables,
, the prominent features of eaeh Constitution, and
• claliing together their most inipsrtant provifiona,
under the several heads of administration ; with
Notes andObfervations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South Carotin 1,
JL. f-. D. and member of the Congrcfs of the
United States.
Dedicated to th» People of the United States.
N. B. A few Copi-s printed o* an infeiior pa
per, at 3-4thsof a dullaa.
February 6 *i\vf
[Volume XII.
POSTPONED SALE.
Cy~ On account of the rain on Saturday
evening, the Sale of Notes which was
then to take place, was postponed to
THURSDAY EVENING, Nov. 9,
at 8 o'clock, at the Merchant's Coffee
House. At which time and place
Will'be Sold at Public Auction,
dolt, ctj.
I Note drawn by James Greenleaf
in favour of and endorsed by Edward
Fox, dated 9th August, Ijy^.dutrnth
Oclo'ber last, j ,300
3 do. drawn by said James Green
leaf in tavor of an 3 endorsed by Ed
ward Fox dated sth 1 ujuft, 1796, at
4 months date, 1 payment dols. 2681
13, 1681' 14, and 2681 14, amount
together go4j 41
3d« do. of fame date, drawn and
endorsed as sforefaid, payable in eight
months;paymenti,dois. 1693 75 each,
amount togethir Bjßl 25
3do do. of fame date, drawn and
enilorfed as afqrefaid, payable in 12
months' paynsents, dols. 2693 75 each,
ampunt together 8,081 2 j
255°5 9 1
I draft drawn by Robert Morris on
John Nicholfon, dated *BthM»y, 1796,
at 12 months ' SPOO
I do. drawn as aforefaid,at two
years 5000
I do. drawn by John Nichol
fon, onßobert Morris, dated 38th
May, 1796, at 3 } ears 5000
1 do. drawn as aforefaid, at 4
years 5000
*o,oo d
The said drafts are secured by shares
in the North America Land Company
and endorsed by James Greenlcaf
I Note dated Bol'.on, 18th May,
1795, drawn by Thomas Dawes, jttn.
in favor of Thomas Gieenleaf, paya
ble lit January, 1798, endorsed by Da
niel Greenleat, Henry Newman and
James Greenleaf MSO
I do. dated Boston, 18thNov. 1995,
drawn by Daniel Greenleaf, in favour
of Thomas Dawes, jun payable 1 ft Jan.
1798,endorfed by Thomas Greenleaf,
Henry Newmin, and James Greenleaf 6jOO
3 Notes, dated Boston, 17th No*.
1795, drawn by Benjamin Haflcell, in
favour of James Greenleaf, payable ift
January, 1799, endorsed by said James
Gfee*leaf and Nahum Fay, dols. 5500
3 do. dated Boston, 17th Nov. 1795,
drawn and endorsed as aforefaid, paya
ble ift Jan. 1800, one payment, dols.
6100, j 000, 4000 15200
One bond, Zachatiah Cox to James Greenleaf,
and assigned by him, dated the iift March, 179?,
in the sum of ten thoul'and dollars, conditioned for
the conveyance of 25000 acres of Land, near the
town of Frederici in Glyn county and state of
Georgia, the said band full due.
John Connelly, auctioneer.
ncvember 6•
Injur a nee Company of the State of
Pennsylvania.
THE Office is again opened at the corner of
Walnut and Second ftrects, where applications are
received asufual; eo3t 0(9 28.
NO 1 I C E. ~
The holders of certificates of a
loan to the exiled citizens of th* State of South Ca
rolina and Georgia, under an a& of Congress ftjd
July, 1781, are informed, that by lodging the f*me
with George Simpfon, Caftiicr of the iiank of the
United Stares, they will be enabled to receive pay
ment of principal and interest, asfoon as the certi
ficates caa he forwarded to Charleston for fettle
mcnt, and orders received for their discharge.
November 1. 6t
To be Sold,
A Valuable Plantation,
OF upwards of One Hundred Acres of Land,
well watered, in a healthy situation, about
seven miles from this City ; the buildings may be
made to accommodate a large family, at a nicr'e
rate expense, and pofleflion had in a few weeks.
Part »f the purchafe-nioncy being paid, a reafon
»ble credit will be allowed for the remainder.
Enquire of the Printer,
november 3 mwftf
Imported in the latefi: arrivals from
Amsterdam and Hamburg, and t'orfale by
B. & J. Bohlen,
A large ajfortment of Jitte French Cambrics,
Platillas KufiiaindDutchiailcloth
Brittannias Writing, poll, and print-
Rouanes ing paper
Brown Holland Dutch calf lkin»
Checks and (Wipes Prime madder
Ticklenburgs Shcll'd Barley
1 Oznaliurgs Looking glafles
White sheetings Hollow glass ware
' Diaper Slates
' Brown rails Coffee mills f
' Umbrellas Brass kettles
' Hair ribbons Scythes and straw knives,
Black and whitelaces Toys assorted in boxes
' Belt Holland Gin in pipes
' London particular Madeira Wine
' July 24. m&thtf
- Just published,
And to be fold at tlie Bcokllores of H. P.
Uice, No. 50, Market-street 1 J. Ormrod,
No'. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, and W. Young,
c corner of Chefnut and Second-streets,
An accurate System of Surveying j
* IH WHICH IS CONTAINED,
x. Decimal frailions, in a plain, eoncife,
and ealy manner.
». The extrasflion of the fqnareroot.
3. Plain trigonometry, reiflangular and ob
lique.
4. An exa& method to cafl up the contents
h «f lands.
s > j. Field furvtying.
The whole being performed without the uC:
■' of scale and compasses, on a table of logarithms.
In which is given some account of the variation
of the needle, and the canfes of its attraflion.
By SAMUEL MOORE.
August *. iaw2w
The Medical Letfures
In the Univerlity of Pennsylvania, are post
.- por.ed until the last Monday in November
next.
Oilober 14. MW4W-siijtSHSST
PHI LAD ELP HIA ,
TtIfiSDAY RVENIN.G, NOVEMBER 7.
~ %gm ■-».... .
Th? J-'cmbcrs of the First City TroDp
of Horse,
•ARE reqnefted to ho'd tbemfelvesin rea
diacfs, to efcnrt the Prefident'of the United
litotes, oi) his return to the Sent of Gov,
ernmtnt, which will he in a few days.
The e:r!ieft notice will be given of the
time. The place of parade will be at the
Hotel, between Arch and Race streets, in
Tenth street.
JOHN DUNLAP, Captain,
The Members of the Troop of Volun
teer Greens,
A RE requeued to hold themselves in rea
diness, to escort the President of the Uni
ted States, on hisreturti to the Seatof Gov
ernment, which will be in a few days.
The earliest notice will be given of the
time—Tiie place of parade- will be at the
Hotel, between Arch and Race-streets, in
Tenth-Ureet.
JOHN MORRELL, Captain.
T'n the Militia of Philadelphia.
AN order from the adjutant-general of
■the militia of Pennfy'vania announces, that
in confcquence of an intimation only from the
Governor, some of you are to be called on
to parade in honor of the President of the
United States! In thus honouring the firtt
roagiftrate of a free people, we honor our
selves. It is not necessary to enquire from
whence the power was derived, for issuing
this order. The Governor ie conftitution
aiiy, the commander in chief ; to the con
stitution he is amenable ; and ncirie but tray
tors arid parricides will question, oroppofe
his authority in this refpedL Like him we
are free men, and fubjeft to the laws and
the constitution ; but that ConttituJon has
given him a to command us, as a part
of the militia of the Rate. No friend to our
country will dispute that authority ; fncl\
opposition will be setting up an authority
unknown to the laws and the'conftitution,\
which is worse than to revert to a state of
nature.
The obje£t of this order is to {hew our
refpe /t to a magistrate of our own electing,
our attachment to {he constitution of the
United States, and that the feat of govern
ment possesses equal patriotism with other
parts of the union, which have paid fiich dif
tinguillicd honours to the patriot whose pub
lic services meiit every acknowledgement of
a grateful people.
Are you not men, citizens, soldiers!
i Rave you not righss, privileges, property
and honor to defend ? Is not the constituti
on your own work ? Are not the magis
trates, the guardians of that constitution,
those rights and privileges yourown choic ?
At a mom 'lit when the demons of anarchy
<tnd confufion would lay every thing pros
trate, are not your countenance and sup
port necessary to encourage and animate your
public officers, to stand firm in the support
of that independence, peace, liberty and
fafety which the constitution was adopted
to secure ? Citizens, this is an honourable
teftitnony of your attachment to your gov
ernment. The wretchss who inculcate a
contrary do&rine, would make you Haves
inderd.
What has the President done, has been
afl<ed by a contemptible organ of the fafti
on ; that faction, which has done nothing
but degrade the country for the last /even
years. What has he done—consult the re
cords of a long and arduous life. A life
of labours for the public good. Consult
the written and printed annals of your coun
try. They are replete with testimonials of
the most important benefits evercoaferred by
a'nv individual on a country.
When the illustrious Waftiington was re
ceived with the civil and military honors of
the city, the fame parricidal arts were em
ployed to'arreft the noble and independent
testimonials of your attacfiment to the fa
ther of his country- but the efforts were
blasted—they were vain. The head of the
fa&'oii funk abalhed.
It ie for the fonsof sedition and fa&ion
alone, to fay that they will spurn the or
ders of government ; full well have they
experienced the bitter effects of their anar
chical principles. May they continue to
drink deep of the cup of chagrin arid mor
tification. Believe it, fellow-citizens, your
honor, peace, liberty and property are se
cure, only in proportion as such persons are
without influence.
The service proposed, is a voluntary ser
vice. It can be grateful only on that idea.
Independent however of every other consi
deration it is a duty of policy. Philadel
phia, adds an honourable testimony to those
of the Eastern states, of her attachment to
the government, by paying public refpeft
to the President. She conciliates the good
opinion of the other members of the union ;
'and demonstrates that she is worthy the ho
nor and privilege of being the feat of gov
ernment. Her citizens have been diftin
guiflied for their federalifm ; and it has
been her peculiar good fortune generally to
baffle the designs of that junto, whose efforts
■re perpetually diretted to her degradation.
MR. FtNSO,
The following inferiptions are to be met
with on a public road, in the county of
Northampton, in Pennfylvama :
" Thii'e brige. was. built in. the. year -
'795 over Hokendoky: kreek 15 mils:
from ; Eailown Conrad Dieter
Thife. brige. was. built, in : the. year,
of. our. Lord. 1795 : commitioners. to. it.
was. John Prodi'man. and. Jacob Heller :
and. fohn Horn ; and the builter of it.
was. Michael Langenb-ch."
It is much to be wifned that those who
undertake to write ir.fcriptjonj for our pub
lic bridges, might firft I'ca'rn something of
spelling and pun&uation.
' Yours, &e. A Constant Reader.
i>y this cia'y's Ma J.
NEW-YORK, Nov. 7.
Yesterday arrived here the ihip Mary,
Capt. Allen, in 45 d?.ys from London.
By this arrival we are furnilhcd with
LONDON PAPERS as late as the 18th
of September, from which the most im
portant ictelligence is extracted. '
A gentleman who came paffihger in
forms, that he saw a Loudon paper at
the? Downs, of the 20th Sept. in which
it was announced that the negotiations at
Lisle had been abruptly terminated, and
that Lord Malmcfoury was returned to
England re infeEla.
Phis eyent is rendered highly proba
ble by the tenor of our accounts of the
14th Sept. this day publilhedfrom
which it appears, that a categorical ati
fiver had been required of his Lordship
to the laji proportion. The purport cf
this propoiition we do not know ; but
it was probably one to which the Englilh
mini ft er had refufed previouflv to accede
—and as he is not of a character to be
dragooned into a compliance, we think
his return indubitable. (N.Y.Gaz.)
LONDON, Sept. 12.
We enter on the duty of detailing the ex
traordinary event that occurred on Monday
last in Paris, with emotions which it is not
easy to describe. It is a proceeding which
in every view, either of gigantic interest in
its confequeuces, or of audacious charafter
in its design, has scarcely a parallel since the j
commencement of the revolution itfclf, and
it is impoffibleto speak of it in the language
which applies to ordinary events. It may
be r.ffertfd that there are occasions in the po
litical as well as the physical combinations
of life, when all principles must yield, to im
perious necefiity, and when all the rules of
moral condutt are set at defiance. The ad
fniffiori of this axiom is all that the most !
odious tyranny demands for the juftification
of every excess ; and it is certain that it is
fufficient to take from the most fettled fo
cietv every assurance that it can frame for
its own independence 1 . With this Ihorl ob
servation, we preface the narrative of the
new revolution in France. We (hall faith
fully lay before our readera every thing that
the Triumvirate has said in juftification of
the measure it so secretly contrived, and vi
gorously carried into execution ; our read
ers will thereby be able to decide whether
the circumstances of the republic were such
as to create the pretended necefiity which
fupercedes all law ; or whether it was mere
ly a cabal of pcrfonal interests, in which a
struggle for ascendency is exalted into a
.ftioek for the deliverance of the people.—
The genuine friends of liberty iii every
country of the world, who are the steady
and impartial fpeftators of this astonishing.
r cene, and a severe posterity, free from all
the paflions which blind the performers, will
pronounce judgment on the aft. It for us
to furnifh the materials.
The blow was struck between three and
faur o'clock on Monday morning the 4th
September. The confufion of dates from
their new division of the year, made our cor
respondent call the 17th Frudtidor, the 4th,
when it ftwmld have been the 3d of Septem
ber. We yesterday morning received the
following letters up to the 21ft Frudtidor,
or Thursday last, the 17th inclusive.
Paris, 19 FruSidor, Sept. 5.
The explofio* has at last taken place.-
The events of yefterdey are of the greatest
importance. lam going to relate them in
order as they happened :
Duringthe night df the 17th, the com- ,
million of infpeftors, with several members ,
of both councils, had assembled in the hall 1
of 500 at the Thuilleries. At midnight 1
General Lemoine (others fay Moulin) ap- ]
peared at the gate of the Pont-tournant, ]
which leads into the garden of the Thuille- 1
ries fronj the square of the revolution, at
the head of a confidcrable detachment, and 1
demanded admittance, which was refufed <
him by Ramel, commander of the guard of 1
the legislative body. But upon the gene- '
ral's ordering two pieces of cannon to ad- '
vance, and the grenadiers at the fame time 1
declaring against their commrnder, the gate
was opened and Ramel arretted. The gen.
then proceeded to the Manege, where the
members' were deliberating, and found there
Rovere, Bourdon de l'Oife, Pichegrn, Wil
lot and several others, all of which he
immediately arretted. Pichegru and Willot
made some resistance, but were immcdi- t
ately fcized and disarmed ; and it is even t
said, that Pichegru is grievously wounded, f
At the fame time Barthelmy was arrested at
the Directory ; but Carnot had contrived to e
make his'efcape. ;
Before the execution of this blow, the i
Direftory had taken care to have all the c
bridges, the square of the revolution, the ,
avenues leading to the Thuilleries, and the :
mofl considerable posts of the city occupied
by strong detachments of troops, with canneii. c
In the mean while general Angereau re- t
paired to the barracks where'the grenadiers t
of the legidative body were quartered, and, <
having assembled them, alked them if they (
would follow him : to which they all an- t
fvvered with one voice Yes. They <hen de
manded to fee their ci-devant commander (
Ramel, and degraded him by pulling off his 1
epaulets, and then marched to offer their
services to the Direftory, c
The walls were covered with different pa- a
pers posted up by order of the Dilcttory ; e
copies of which you will find in the inclosed c
Reda<3eur.
At seven the arrested deputies were con- }i
veyed in fix or seven carriages to the temple, a
At 12, in consequence of an adverrife- p
merit, polled on" the doors of both cojiicils, (1
the council of jco aiicmbhd at the OJeon, t
the ancient French theatre near the di recta.
r y> and. the elders at the, fchpol.of Surgery,
not f ar f rorn thence.
The Fauxbourgb St. Antoine, well arm
ed, evidently by preconcert, came and of
, iered their serviceS to the direftory and both
councils. They were thanked, and invited
to repaid to their refpedtive occupations.—
before they returned home they drew up in
1 the Rucdes Francs Bourgeois, where gen.
■ Angereau pafild along the line, and was re
ceived with the loudest acclamations. They
afterwards retired very peaceably. •
During the whole day the bridges and
chief polls were guarded by the troops ;
the ftreetp, especially about the directory
and the councils, were crouded with incre
dible numbers of inquifitivt persons, who
seemed to be guided by no other motive
than curiosity. Not the lea!l outrage was
.an'd' the ntrnoft order and tran
■ quillity reigtied in e-very quarter of the city.
At 6 in the evening the directory an
swered the meflage of the council of five
hundred, by fending papers relative to the
conspiracy. [These papers we have already
mentioned.]
During the night the commission of five
made report on the measures to be adopted
in the present conjundture, and proposed a
projedt of a resolution, which you will find
in the Moniteur.
The only uncafinefs now entertained is
from the friends of the constitution of '93,
or if you will, the Mountaineers; but it is
affVired that the diredlory has positively re
fufed to join them.
The barriers still remain shut. It is pre
sumed that there are 12 or 15 thousand
troops at Paris, while all the issues from that
city are completely blocked up by 25,000
men, distributed around at the distance of
5 leagues, so that it is impossible for any
j person to escape.
No news hitherto of Carnot. Some fay
he has (hot himfelf, while others pretend he
was killed by some people who attempted
to arrest him.
It is now one o'clock. Every thing is
remarkably quiet.
From the Stnllnelle.—" One Perotteau, a
gun-smith, Rue Croix-des-prtits Champs, has
j been arretted. This villain has confeffed,
on his examination, that the royal commis
sioners of Louis XVIII. had purchased
from him 700 muskets, on bons, signed with
the initial letters R.. .e. The whole has
been seized and confifcated, and the proofs
and papers are now at the Bureau Central."
20 Frudtidor, Sept. 6.
Never since the beginning of the revolu
tion was a plan carried on with more cau
tion, or executed with more celerity, than
the famous measure taken by the diredlory
on the 18th infl. This will appear evident
to any person who considers that the majo
rity of the diredlory, while they were pre
paring every thing for such an important
blow, had to baffle the vigilance not only
of their colleagues, Carnot (a man of su
perior abilities) and Barthelemy, but also
to deceive the numerous spies employed by
their enemies in both councils. So great
was the secrecy with which all their mea
sures were concerted, that they had adlu
ally marched a considerable body of troops
(some fay 10,000 men) into Paris, sur
rounded that city on every fide at the dis
tance of 5 leagues, occupied every import
ant pott, and arretted their enemies, within
the space of two hours, without any one's
having had previously the least suspicion of
the matter, and almost without noise. ■ It
was not known till every thing was over.
It is true that the anti-diredlorial journalists
had repeatedly denounced to the public a
plot, refemhling in some few particulars
the plan executed by the diredlory, but as
they had been ofte'ri obliged to retradl their
assertions, and to invent reasons in-order to
explain why the execution had been defer
red, they at last fell into the predicament
of they lying (hepherd in the fable—Nobody
believed them when they told the truth. So
minute were the preparatives taken by the
diredlory, that the prisoners of the temple
had been removed the day before, and that
house of detention cleared for the reception
of the members who were to be arretted.
Gen. Moulin, and not Lemoine, was
the officer who, on the night of the 17th,
or rather on the morning of the ißtb, ob
tained admittance into the garden of the
Thuilleries, through the gate of the Pont
Tournant, and arretted the members then
aflfembled. >■
The fame day ( 18th) about 12 o'clock,
Lafond Ladebat, president of the ancients,
aud Simeon, president of the council of
500, followed by some members, appeared
at the doors of their refpedlive councils,
and demanded admittance, which being re
fufed them, they adjourned to a house in
the Rue St. Honore, and drew up a protes
tation ; but the fear of being arretted soon
forced them to disperse.
That day the theatres shut up, but open
ed the next. This evening, pursuant to an
invitation given from the diredlorv, the
adlors of the opera eelebrated the victory
obtained by the Republic over the attach of
Royalty, by giving the OJfrande a la Liberie
and the Marftillafc.
The law annulling the eledlion of several
departments, and •rdering the emigrants
to quit Paris, &c. having passed through
the necessary -formalities, has been promul
gated to da'y, and polled upon the walls ;
so that it is txpedled very few emigrants will
be found in Paris to-morrow evening.
Carnot has not been taken as yet, some
fay he has been killed ; others, that he ha 6
killed himfelf.
It was reported this morning at the coun
cil of ancients, that Dumourier and Bouille
are at Paris, that the latter has been arrett
ed, and that every precaution is taken to
discover the former.
No. 8 of the democratic conftitutionel
has appeared to day. He violently inveighs
against Merlin de Thionville for having pro
posed that Antonette and Felix Lepelletier
should be included in the decree of transpor
tation, and accufis that member of attack
ing the true patriots under tlie liatae of ariar- <
chifts. I ills makes forae peopte imagine '
that the Mountain is beginning anew to' '
rSife its head: But it appears that the di- '
redlory and a majority of both councils are j
resolved to keep it down. Tims will tell. c
In the mean while it seems, that the vidtori- i
ous party is resolved not to spill one drop of t
blood, and to use as lenient meafurts as the '
r.ature of circumstances will permit. 1
What will serve to confirm our former»ob- !
fervations on the trade of this city, is that
the public inferiptions which on the eve of i
the explosion were so low as seven, rose the t
two days following to 13, a rife ascribed to
the firmnefs and vigor displayed by the go
vernment This day at two o'clock they 4
fell to 10, owing to some appehtnfions of a
new commotion. .
Amongst the different persons spoken of j
as being to fill the two vacant places in the "
direflorv, the molt remarkable, are, Merlin, >
minister of jltftice; general Jourdan, Robert 0
Lindet, Garat and Talleyrand Perigord. I •
21 Fruftidor, Sept. 7. j)
Among the different objedls seized in the ;
place where the members of the commission a
were arretted by general Moulin, were a con- c
fiderable number of swords and daggers with '
hilts half red and half black, several packets
of cards signed Rorere, a new dress for the
deputies, and a chest containing 40,000 li
vres. | j
! The prisoners of the temple dine toge- t
ther, and communicate freely with one ano-; !
ther ; but are allowed no communication
| with the outlide.
They -ppear very airy, especially general
Pichegru ; Bourdon de L'Oife is the only j
one amongst them that appears dejedled. I a
Those not included in the transportation lift • 1
, have been set at liberty. It is ever, allured i '
i that Thibadeau was at the fitting of yefter- 1
I day- t
By a decree of yesterday evening, the
journalists whose arrest had been ordered by '
the diredlory, have been condemned to be |
transported, and the diredlory authorized to :
make domiciliary visits in order to discover '
the retreats of such as have not been arretted. '
From the Ami des Lois, citizen Betami, '
living in Rue St. Logare, No. 1 79, has writ- \
ten the following letter, dated the 18th : c
" Yesterday, about 3 o'clock, a man c
whom Ido not know, came to me on the r
part, as he said, of the brother and secretary L
of general Pichegru, and offered me a muf- 1
ket,-piftols, a sword, and a good reward,
provided I would afiift at carrying off Pich- j
egru from the temple. I told him that I t
would consider about it. They told me t
they were very numerous and sure of fuc- {
cess. He teazed me very much, but to get j
rid of him, I answered yes. He wrote
down my name, and said he would call again.
They know me, at I served under Pichegru,
and went to fee him from time to time. But
I will never betray the republic."
I'rom the Journal des Hommes Libres—
We read in the declaration of Duverne de
Prefle the following remarkable passage :
" There is a foreign party *vho expedl
the future afiiftance of Spain. At the head
ot this party are M. M. dela Vauguyon and
d'Entraiguts. I will give their means of
eorrefpondence with the Interior. The
members of this party think the king of
Spain is for them, and among other particu
lar*, the marquis de las Cafas.
" Now we mud observe, that of the in
dividuals mentioned in the above phrase, La
Vauguyon has been at Paris this long time.
His intrigues were known by the diplomatic
body, and he himfelf is not fignified /.mong
the conspirators lately fallen. Another, viz.
Las Cafas, remained in England notwith
standing the rupture with Spain, under pre
tence of an illness that has laflcd till novu, and n
arrived yesterday in Paris in high ftilcj at the a
Hotel d'Orleans, rue des Petits Auguf- f
tins."* v
Barruel Bauvert, author of the Adtes des „
Apostles, and Richer Serezy, aufher of the n
Accufateur Public, have been arretted. The a
ex-deputy Chiappe, attempting to get into f
the temple in order to speak to general Pich- ''
egru, was sent by general Dutertre, com
mandant of the temple, to general Ange- '
rau's head-quarters, and then arretted and [■
sent to prison.
The report of the arrest of Bouille and r '
Dumourier is not confirmed. ''
The day before yesterday the constitution- f
al circle held a meeting at the hotel de Mont- J
morency. p ,
Yesterday the barriers were opened, and >'■
the troops withdrawn from the bridges.
Places of public resort, such as the Palais 01
Royal, the Champs Elifees, the Garden of -J
the Thuilleries, &c. are as crouded as ever j hi
coaches and cabriolets roll about the streets e <
as usual. In fliort, every thing wears the
afpedl of the greatest tranquility.
Ihe Journal des Hommes Libres, fays 0]
that the diredlory has ordered 12,000' men di
more to march to Paris. . P
if c can from perfvnal t/wzi lei. e flats tb'ts ajjicrtion
tohifiilfc, i 'he M trquit De Las CaJat is Jlill in Eng- i|
land. The Chevalier tie Las Cafas has moji certainly . n
htcn dja ned by ilnefi, and be tcent to Paris only ivith '
the lafifjint hope of cvnfultirrv a German pbyf eian, ivho , '
is eminent for the cure of bis particular disorder. IVt Lc
lieve It it too far gone for any hvntan aid. '
We have given this aecount of the pro- u!
ceedings, because it is more particular than di
any we have seen in the few journals which "
have been fuffered to pass over into En- U
gland. The Mom'teur gives the fame nar
rntive very concisely. The Redadleur is th
still more brief in its relation of the manner ry
of the arrest of the members, and the (hut- w
ting up of the Councils. It" makes ample a
mends, however, by furnifhing us with all 1
the documents upon which the Dirc&ory : pu
have grounded their proceedings. They !
are too important to be curtailed. —
Morn. Chron. X ™
( The documents will be given in future papers.) Rl
COUNCIL uFTTvT UNDRED. , T).
Sitting of Sept. 7. j
ADDRESS
of the LegiJlative Body to the French natict;-
Sept. 7. I
The council of five huudred. taking into
I
conliikration the extraordinary and critical
circumftir.ces in which the Kcpublic is placed
. and deeming it the duty of the Initiative bo
dy to make known to the French people the
plots which have been formed for the purpose
of en flaring them and subverting the republi
can con!!it,.tic nof the Third Year—l» declare
its own sentiments and hopes, and at the fjrne
time time to put the nation on its guard against
the manoeuvres which may be attempted to
mifltad it by the accomplices of the conspira
tors, has therefore agreed to the folUwin? re
felution : 6
Article I—" The leyifhtive body concurs
in an address to the armies and departments
the purport of which it as follows :
" French MEN ,
" It is encumbent on us to declare (he truth
to you, and we proceed to acquit ourselves of
that duty.
" A conspiracy which hid for its object the
eftabliihment of a throne in France,,and of
privileges and grievances a thoufandtimes more
«dious th ( an thofc viiith had been aboliflied by
your will—a conspiracy always unmifk d,but
nrvcr deftrJyed, had again brought the RepuS.
I lie to the lirink of ruin. The government, by
. irs wiidom and firmnefs baffled the execution
j «f it at the very moment that it was on the
point of breaking out But one hight more
and our couuiry would have been plunged into
eternal mourning—but one night more,and ar
bitrary despotism would have raised her hideout
head, and eredled her ul'urpation on the carcases
of those, who, more or l«fs, hadfervedthe
cause of iiberty.
icn who had thirfled for the popular
power wirhthefole view of exercising it again*
the people wcr e for a l<-'*g time engaged ill
; planning the execution of that execrable projedt.
1 he greater part, (Chiefs of the insurgents of
j Vcn emaire) emboldened by imDunity, had re
•irr.edl ihrir plots. They corresponded more
judacioufly with the agents qf the pretended
Louis XVIIIr The donfeflions of one of these
j agents, (Duierlie de Prefle) prove it. Their
I ! ! ' rs eile< ' 3l Venice, th«ir communications
j with the emigrants and the principal rebels
proven. All the documents aro made public.
1 . "?" ns b y *hich they promised to execute
their deligus were—i. The annihilation of all
public and nationalfpirit.—j. » l,e afTatfirution
of every one whom they treated as fuddled of
patriotifilß, and impunity to be grained to the
afiafiinj by tribunals fold royalty.— 3. The
extinction of th« financial refourcM of tfie Plate.
fbajement r^e government andi
republican lnflitutions.-— j. Acivil war lighted
up in different parts of the Republic.— 6. The
of internal security, and the inter
ception of all communication through the
country.—7. The diftrefsof the landholder,the
mechanic and the soldier. 8. A vigorous f a .
brication of all laws subversive of the cenftitu
tion.
This objetfl and these means will not sur
prize, when you shall learn by the authentic
pieces which have been found, that their ap
pointments, previously ordered and regulated
by counter-revolutionary officers in almost ev
ery department, proceeded from a general plan
formed and organized under the name of the
society of Legitimate Children, a focieiy,
one of whose laws was the most absolute and
•the blindest devotion on the part of it 3 members
to the erders of their unknown chief.
« We will not remind you citizens of the
deplorable success which has resulted from their
combinations. In April, a Peace, an honorabl.
and solid Peace smiled on oht wishes—it is re
moved 'o a greater distance. Could it have
been raised on a land convulsed and ready to
cover itfelf with blood and ruins ? The nation
al credit began to acquire confifltncy ; the
public creditors were on the point of being
paid, there were no arrears due to the armies,
when ftiddenly qiifery and penury returned and
spread themfelvas ever France j the ftockholdtr
was in despair, the infot.ipriotis at 40 livres fell
to to, the armies wire without pay orcloathing.
Those armies which triumphed over Europe,
were, O fhameful and forrowful reflexion !
compelled to fubfifl, cither by requifitiont, or
by the produiSl of their courage j and yet a
hideous laugh escaped from the lips of the par
tizans of the counter-revolution ; they every
day law the cmbarrafsroents of the government
increase, and they every day increased it them
selves. The moll far-fetched explanations,and
the m»ft impudent perfidy were deemed good
means, for the attainment of t|ieir end.' The
adherents of fanaticifin were recalled, a fhame
ful and public traffic of the erasure of emigrants
was declared ; the citizens terrified at their
proceedings, met together, but that right was
prohibited. Arms were diftribiited, poinardj
marie, fcveral were fcized with rallying orders,
and regiflers for enrolling names were opened!
0 Country ! O sweet and noble sentiment of
liberty, generous incentives of honor and of
national pride, what became of you ? O names
to often prophaned, of jufticr, morality, huma
nity, of social and public virtues, where did you
take refuge ? They existed with the armies !"
(The address, after dating the egeSt refilting
irom the inference of the armies with the transac
tions cf the 4. h infl. and entreating the public 0-
pinion not to be milled with refpeiSt to the conduit
of tha direAory, which it afTerts has finally etlab
limed rhe constitution *f the third year, and put a
period to th* revolution concludes in thu follow
ing manner:)—
" With refped to you, Frenchmen it depends
on your union and on your confidence to encour
age us to proceed. Reltored shortly to our eut
tornary hbors, all our cares shall be employed in
hea ing treachcs which it was the business of our
enemies to widen.
" The restoration of the finances, of commerce,
of ineiuftry, and agriculture; the relief of the in
digent cl 3>s, of the hospitals, and the creditors
01 the slate ; the debts due to the imaiortal defen
ders ( .four country shall claim our firft attention..
Peace also, that confuting peaee, obtained hy vic
tory will also come, we hope to consolidate all
our triumphs and repair aj our leffts. But if on
the contrary the enemy fhuulj persevere in accele
rating his own definition, let the union of all
good citizens and their attachment to the confli
tu'ion of the third year produce in him despair,
and prove th« pledge of his approaching ruin '
•' Frenchmen, the unity of adion is re-eflab.
lifbed between the two • reat powers ; not that
0! """y which might result from the depen
dent <- f 'he ore upon the other, hut thut which
is produced hy the harmony of reciprocal K 's,
\Vc have laid before ypu our coudixt a „d our
prmcples Our lives ,- r v.holly devoted to the
mains nance of the republic : we fhal! not tell you
that we are ready to I-jfe them in comfca-insj eiw
ry faction, but ivefolemnly fwcar to you that we
will overcome them/'
Article It —» The law of the sth shall be an
nexed to this refoluti .n, and proclaim,,! wlth it
in a t the departments and in ,he armies of the re.
public.
SITTING OF SErr. ?o.
A f'Cond message ti oni the directory announ
cing to the council, the receipt of the following
ktrer from Central Moreau, addressed to citizen
Barthekmy :
Tic General in Chief of the army ,f tl , Rlml w
felle, to CitiTen Barlhclemy, member of tlx Exuytn,
Btrcflory of the French Republic.
" Headquarters at Strafburgh, rn,h Fruc
tidor (September 5,)
" CITIZEN DIHECT®R,
'• You will no doubt recollea, that on my last■n-r-'cy toB-''.- I i-formed yen, tlr.t at the J>»f
-- ■ t l ' t l '" Rbin- w root: a trunk belonffio;!; to
(' ■■■)'ra! li'infflia, wherein w: found about sor
jo- letters of his corn f.iorjdeace; tho'e of Vil-
U'rft-ich were among them ; but they were the
le.aO. i'lnprir'ant. Many of them Were in Cypher-,;
tbev (hull all be decypiiereJ, but this will talc:
miicS time;
" No onf "oes in tbUcorrefpondynce by his true
r.ame, so t'n? leveral Frenchmen, who corres
pond with K.linf'in, C«nde, Wickham, d'Knalli
en and others, cannot cafilybe detected. Howe
ver, we :ire in nofT-flion of such informations as.
hn ; e ! us, to discover many of t* em
•' I -V.is determined mt 'o g'v • publicity to this
co •refpendonre, fiiice, peac- b ing likely tD be
concluded, no drpger could arifj from thence for
the republic ; and I eSdes, no one being named,
but ittle could be proved by t!ie ( e letters
" But feeing at the head nf the partita which do
so much mifeliief to our country, a man, placed
in an eminent ft .tion, nud enjoying the utmost.
confidence ; who i« much compromise in this cor
respondence, and d-.fti 'ed to a prominent part
in the r deration of the Pretender, I have thought
it my duty to inform you of it, that you may not
be drceilted by 1 is pretended repnblicanifm ; but
on the contrary, >vatch his condutft, and ward off
the misfortunes he may bring over our country,
&nee a civil war cannot but be the aim of his pro
jects.
" I confefs. Citizen Direftor, thit it is a pain
ful talk for me to acquaint you with this treason,
since the msn whom T unmade to you, was my
friend, ?nd would still bo o>, if I did not khow
him ; I a'ludetothe reprefenta'iv,- of the people
Piche'jrru He ha* been prudent enough not to
write hrnfeli ; he only communicated ' y word of
mouth with tho s e wfto were entrusted with the
«orrefp indence, who stated his proje&s and re
ceived hv anfwsrs. Hegoes hereby feveraLnames,
and among others by that of BaptiSc. A chief of
brigade, called ISadouvdl, was attached to him,
and went by the name of Coco ; this man was ont
of th*-couriers employed by him as wellasbyhis
You will recollefl to have seen
him often at Basle.
" Thfir great movement was to take place at
the beginning of the campaign of the 4th year ;
they relied on disasters happening on my arrivil at
the army, indignant at its defeat, was to
demand back its former commander, who thin
would have ailed pursuant to the iuftruiiions he
had rtceive'd.
" The sum of 20a Louis d'Ors was to be paid
him for the journey he made to Paris at the time
of his dif^u'tVl: this natnr illy accounts for hi. ha
ving refufes the embassy to Sweden. Irather
fiifpc(9 the family of Lajolais was implicated in
this intrigue.
" Nothing but the great car.fvience I place in
your parrietifm end wisdom, has induced me to
give you this intelligence. The proofs rn which
it is sounds d are as clear as day, but 1 doubt whe
ther they would do in a court of jtiflice.
" I requeflysu, Citizen Rireilor, to guide me
fnt» your advice in this arduous bufuiefs. It is
hithrrro kpown but by five perfens, namely. Ge
nerals Defatix and Reignier, one of my aid-de
camps, and an officer entru ~'ed with the secret
department of the army, who is continual'y pur
suing the information contained in the letters
which are decyphered.
" Please to accept the ifTuranccs of my rcfpeS
ful and inviolable attachment.
(Signed) " MOREAU.,'
The letter was read, and ordered to be printed
for the use of the members.
Sitting of September 8.
A meflage from the Council of Elders
having announced that the resolution enter
ed into yesterday relative to the oath to be
laken by the members of the new third, had
pafled into a law, it wai instantly proposed
that the oath should be taken on the spot.
This motion being agreed to, the members
who were present ascended the tribune, and
swore hatred against royalty and anarchy,
and* fidelity and attachment to theconftitu
tion of the 3d year.
The ex-general Joardin added, " I swear
it on my sword."
Sitting of September 9.
Guyvernon made a report in the name of
a special commission, at the end of which
he presented the following projeft :
Art. I. No ci-devant noble (hall perform
any legislative, administrative, municipal or
judiciary fundion, nor hold the place of a
Direftor, till four years after the conclusion
of a general peace.
Art. 2. Every ex-noble holding any of
the above places, shall resign it within 24
hours from the publication of this refoluti
od, on pain of being banished the republic
and his property sequestered.
Art. 3. Excepted fpomjlhis law are the
ci-devant nobles who were members of the
firlt legislative aflembly or of the convention
or obtained their places before the ift Ven
demaire of the fourth year.—Ordered to be
printed, and adjourned. .
Sitting of Sepsembcr 10.
Villers, in the name of the commiflion of
finance, made a general report on that ob
ject, and mveftigated the means of remedy
ing the distress in which that part of the
administration was involved. Among the
measures which he proposed was a stamp du
ty on petitions addrefled to the Legislative
Body and to the conftiruted authorities, a -
pother of five centimes a flieet-on the news
papers, periodical publications,polling bills,
&c. a bonu on patents, the re*eftabli(h
ir.ene of a lottery, &c. At the end of the
report, VillerS presented the projeft of a
resolution, stating the ordinary and extra
ordinary services of the year, at from 6 to
616 millions.
After some obfervation6 from Chollet and
Fabre, the Council ordered the printing of
the report and the projeft, the objefts of
which are to be discussed to-morrow, and
the following days.
COUNCIL of ELDERS.
Sitting of Sept. 6.
The fitting being resumed at one o'clock
in the afternoon, Marbot was eleded Pre
sident.
Lacombe Saint Michel made a report on
the resolution of the 23d ult; relative to
the pay of difmifled officers, and tending to
force them to quit Paris, and to expe& the
payment of the above arrears in their ref
pedlive communes."
" Yes," said Lacombe, " gallant soldiers
of every description, you shall kno\v r that
a fa&ion as powerful as hypocritical, intend
ed to remove you from the place where the
government resides, which you have found
ed and maintained —you shall know that it
aflemblcd the'fe emigrants, fanatical priests,
in short, the whole horde of royalist conspi
rators, to overthrow the republic. It was
teferved to one of the generals of' the army
of Italy to defeat this conspiracy without
one drop of blood beiftg flicd.
With what artonu'.'unent will Europe
learn, that the celebrated general who once
led our phalanxes to viftory, fold the Re
public to a Bourbgn. Let Pichegru and
his accomplices no longer defile the territory
of liberty—let them carry their remorse to
the scorching foil of Africa.
" May the 18th Fruftidor, (Sept. 4)
be the dawn of the fined days of the Repub
lic ! —may our deluded colleagues return !
—our hearts and arms are open to receive
them. Let us all unite to save the repub
lic !" 1
Lacombe moved, that the resolution be
rejefted.
The council reje&ed the resolution, and
ordered the report to be printed.
Sitting of the 10th.
The council received, and immediately
approved of a resolution pafled yesterday,
which stated that all the armies having by
their conduft and addrefles, contributed to
the tranfaftions of the 4th of September,"
had deserved well of their country.
PARIS, September n.
The depmties condemned to transporta
tion, left Paris yesterday morning at 4 o'
clock, in covered waggons under a very
ftroug guard. Some fay they are to be sent
to Cayenne, others to Madjigafcar.
Several emigrants of diftindion have been
arrested Ihe number of paflports which
the Central Bureau continues to grant ex
ceeds credibility.
According to the reports which were in
cireulation three days ago, the half of
France was in flames. Lyons, it was said,
had revolted, the department of l'lfere was
in a slate of infurreftion, and the war in La
Vendee was kindled up again. The news
received from the neighbouring departments
is, however, dircftly the reverie : the Exe
cutive Dire&ory has received addrefles of
congratulation from fevcral. The intelli
gence of what happened on the 4th inft.
caused the liveliest joy at Rouen, and everv
wife measure was taken to secure the emi
grants, the priests, and she agents of Louis
XVIII. at Lyons, which has constantly
been the hot bed of superstition and of roy
alty.
It is probable that the 4th of September
will be considered in all the departments as
an epoch which consolidates the true inter
ests of the Republic, and rescues the consti
tution from the chains with which it was
opprefled— (Le Survcillantt.)
LONDON, September ij.
The new Directors, as we have already
stated, are, Merlin of Douay, and Francois
de Neufchatean, the former of whom, after
having been privy to most of the maflacres
which have stained the revolution, in the
true hypocritical cant of a Cromwell, as
sumes the chara&er of humility in his ad
dress to the Dire&ory on accepting his new
office and fays—" I cannot approach the
duties of it without a religious trembling.
What ought to be my anxiety and fear in
being placed so near to you, Citizen Di
reftors, around whom the beams of glory
shine with such tranfeendent splendor.
In the Redafteur of the nth is a letter,
signed Moreau, addressed to Barthelemi,
which the Dire&ory has sent to the two
Councils to render it the more public. This
letter is dated StaHburgh, Sept. 5, and
incloses some pretended correspondence
found in the tnunks of the Austrian General
Klinglin, many months since, in which
General Pichegru's najne is mentioned as
being in the league with the Prince de Con
de and other emigrants. As this secret has
been long in Moreau's pofleflion,we can on
ly account for his having published it at the
period he did in order to save himfelf at the
expense of his friend Pichegru.who he might
have heard was arrested. We must leave it
to future historians to account for a man of
Moreu's acknowledged bravery, meanly at
tempting to save his own existence by facri
fieinghis bosom friend. We have infrrted
the letter at length, as it is extremely fit to
be bound up with the pretended correspon
dence of the Cher. d'Entraigues.
In the Annales Politiques of the 11 th, it
is mentioned that news is arrived from Gen
eral Berthier, of the treaty of peace with
the Emperor being signed; but as this re
port is not confirmed in the succeeding. num
ber, we considered it to be premature.
Among the firft petitions presented to
the new Council (not of five hundred, be
cause one half the members are either trans
ported or fled) is an address from the deser
ters of the armv and other vagabonds con
fined in the prison St. Pelagie, praying to
be released, that they may fight the enemies
of their country. Their petition was order
ed for the inquiry of the military commifli
on. The next petition will probably be
from the Galley-Slaves of Brest.
Yesterday morning lieutenant General Sir
R.alph Ambercrombe arrived in town from
the Weft Indies. We understand that he
is to be appointed commander in Chief in
Ireland.
Merlin of Douay, the fun of a peasant,
was taken into a house of a religious com
munity as a servant boy. On discovering a
quiqknefs of talents, and a desire for learn
ing, he was taught to read and write, and
afterwards officiated as an attendant at the
celebration of mass. He was thence sent to
college, and became an advocate of the Par
liament of Douay, He purchased, previ
ous to the revolution, the title of Secretaire
du Roi, for the purpose of obtaining rank,
and afterwards attached himfelf to the fad
ions of Orleans. In all the ftnges of the 1
revolution, he has (hewn himfelf a molt 1
blood thirsty villain, and is supposed to have
been a principal plotter in the late revoluti
on. His charader i 3 extremely well suited
to that of his colleagues.
Six (hips of the line, including the flag
ship, are the force ordered out to join Ad
miral Earl St. Vincent's squadron oil the
Portugal Ihtion; two of the new bomb
ketches art; also to accompany them.
j PLYMOUTH sltr, 11
7 his morning arrived here, the Lurch, CV [.
ter, of 12 guns, .Lieut. Belts, from a cruize off
Brefl, with the hfi of the head of her Bern ;
also arrived with her the Dnn'jh bark Torelenf
koild, of Chri/liar/a, If. Park, master, from
Bonrdeaux, bound to Altcna (Lut f.f,p o frd
Bt e/l,)/aden with tv 'tne ; Jhe was detained the
Bth injl. close tn with the entrance of Brejl har
bor , by commodore Duckworth's fqucdron,
conffling of the sol owing /hips, viz. Leviathan,
of 74guns, Commodore Duckworth ; the Pom
pee, of 80 guns, Cast. Vajhon, ; Anfon, of
guns, Capt. Durham ; Melpomene, of 44guns,
Capt.-Hamilton ; Chi/ders, of 14 guns, Capt.
O'Bryen ; Dolly, of 8 guns, Lieut. IVatfon,
and the Lurcher, as 14 guns, Lieut Betis,
The fame squadron has captured two daggers
and one schooner, laden with brandy, wine, and
soap, and a Danijb ship with 16 Frenchman
cn board ; they received information from the
captured vessels, that the French have 19 fail
of the line in Brefl water, ready for sea except
a total want of sailors to navigate them.
PORSTMOUTH, Sept. 13.
Arrived this evening his Majefly's frigates
Arethufa, of 38 guns, Capt. Wolly, from the
IVfl-Indies, with General Sir R. Abtrcrombie
on board. The General has landed, end is go
ing immediately for London.
The Arethufa, captured Le Gatte French
corvette, of 20 guns, on the 10th of /'ugufl,
after an obflinate engagement for three quarters
of an hour, during which the corvette had 9
men killed and wounded, and the frigate 3, one
of whom was iilled.The corvette arrived with
the Arethufa, and a Dutch IVefl-India fbip,
laden with cotton, indigo, iS/c valued at 30,000/
is hourly expedcd,alfo captured by the Arethufa.
The rethifa brings the « cry pleasant news
that the pcflUentialfever that has so long raged
in that quarter, is in a great measure subsided,
and that all military operations are at a fland-
NEW-YORK, November 6.
From the Commercial Advert ifer.
The storm which has been so lon<r
t>
hanging over France, has at length burst.
—The call of the troops to Paris and the
violent addresses of the armies were only
the precurfers of the explosion. Three
members of the dircdtory, Lareveilliere
Lepaux, Rewbel and Barras have been
taking measures to ftifle what they call a
conspiracy of the royalists, and having
secured a large military force and barred
the gates of Paris, they ordered their
two colleagues, Barthelemy and Carnot
to be arrefted—Carnot was not found—
Barthelemy is arrested, with Pichegru,
Willot, Dumolard, and other members
of the Councils. The papers, which are
called proofs of their guilt, have been
published, and without trial, a number
of the members as the Councils and the
two Directors, are condemned to banifb
ment.—The prisoners Were immediately
sens off to Rochfort to be embarked, ei
ther for the East or Weft Indies. The
detail of these events is too important to
be curtailed.
At present, we shall make but one re
mark to fatisfy inquiries how far this re
volution. may affedt the United States :
and this is, that those members of the
directory and legislature who haye open
ly reprobated the condudt of the French
government towards this country, are a
mong the fallen and proscribed party ;
and our bitterest enemy, Merlin, rrtinif
ter of Justice, is elected one of the Di
reftory. Appearances are therefore ex
tremely unfavorable ; but perhaps the
cloud may be diflipated. We must wait
for further intelligence, before we can
form a decided opinion on the fate of the
proposed negotiation.
Among the exiled deputies we notice
Barbe Marbois, of the Council of El
defS) formerlyconful iiatheUnitedStates.
The Britilh frigate Doris, of 3$ guns,
Lord Ranelaugh, has taken, after a smart
aftion, off Ireland, the French privateer
Le Fabin, of 20 guns and 140 men.
From the Daily Advert'tfer.
The Emperor, or his Britannic Majes
ty, do not appear to be implicated in any
league with tlie late overthrown party ;
and yet the rtbrubt departure of Lord
Malmelbury from Lisle, would lead us to
suppose, certainly, that the events in Pa
ris were unfavorably viewed. In ac
counts of a prior date to this circum
stance, we notice that it was believed in
Paris, that Ch. de la Croix was agaiu to
be brought into action ; and from the
complexion of his former irrtercourfe
with Lord M. in his capacity as secretary
for foreign affairs, the English Editors
had began to apprehend consequences
equally unfavorable.
Lord St. Vincent was still off Cadiz,
and admiral Duncan off the Texel. Six
ships of the line are ordered to reinforce
the former, under the command of ad
mirl Sir John Orde, vice admiral Nelson,
who has retired upon a pension.
The President of the Dutch Conven
tion lias officially announced the rejec
tion, by the people, of the new consti
tution.
Carnot. There are no pofitire ac
counts of his death. In appears moll
j likely lie has been bar.ifhcd
' leagues.
Triei.hard and Bonnjer were the
new commiffioriers at Lisle—men who
are fb.ted to have been of less accommo
dating views and manners than the for
mer ; another confirmation of the un
fortunate refhlt.
Pjchegru is UA to have told the
prince of Conde, he would leave no
thing unf.nifhed—" I do not wish to
be the the third vol. of La Fayette and
Dumourier."
Tali.eyrand Pf.rigord. We find
him Ml among the candidates of the
fuccefsful party. He was on one nom
ination for the new vacancy in the Di
rectory, and his predecessor was again
employed. Weprefume it was in foir.e
diplomatic agency which has tended to
the unfuccefsful iiTue at Lisle.
Marbois, Gen. Jourdan, Gen. Hochc,
and others, are among the new party.
Died, lately in England, in child
bed, Mrs. Godwin j more known as
Miss Woiftonecraft, the celebrated au
thoress of The rights of Women.
A gentleman, who cam; paflenger in
the Mary, informs, that Mr. Marshal,
one of the American cornmiiTroners,
had arrived in Holland. We do not
find, in the English prints, any account
of the arrival of Mr. Marlhal or Mr.
Gerry.
From the Neiv-Tork Gazette.
A Summary or Articles which we
SHALL DETAIL IN FULL.
The following are considered as the chief
rebels of La Vendee and the Chouans, and
who are to be transported without delay to
the place which shall be appointed by the
Executive Dircdtory.
Aubry, Job Aime, BoiflTy d'Anglas,
Borne, Cadroi, Couchery, Bailley, Bcur
don De L'Oife, De La Haye, Dumolard,
Duplantier, Duprat, Gilbert Defmouliers,
Henry Lariviere, Tmbert Colijrnes, Camille
Jordan, Jourdan of the mouth of the Rhone,
Gaux La Carriere, La Marchand Gomi
court, Lemerer, Moreau de Merfau, Ma
difr, Maillard of the council ps Elders,
and Maillard of the council of Five Hun
dred, Noailles, Andre, Marcurtin Pichegru,
PolifTart, Simeon, Vermanteau, or Cler
monteau, Qualtremer Quinci, Duplantier,
Saladin, Vanverilers, Vaublanc, Villaret
Joyeufe, Nellot, Barbe Marbois, Detorcy,
Paftoret, Dumas, Ferrant Vaillant, Lafond
Ladebat, L'Homont, Muraire, Murinais,
Paradis, Perfonae, Portalis, Maille, Ri
choux, Rovere, Troncon du Coudrai,
Thyrion, Compris, Boris, Maliger, Tarbe,
Paile, Doulcet, Paurticoulant, Thibaudeau,
Damerijue, Raillaut, Menuzois, Carnot,
Barthelemy, Dauchy, Normand, Deplus,
Brottier, Blin, Dunan, La Villeurnois,
Coffonville, Cochon, Miranda, ex-general,
Morgan, ex-general, Suard, journalist, Ra
mel, ex-commandant of the grenadiers of
the legislative body, Pa vie.
The following is a lift of the Journals
whose prefles have been shut up, and the
authors and printers of which hare been ar
rested :
Courier des Depnrtemens ; Courier Re
publican ; Mercure Uiiiverfal ; Cenfenr
des Journaux ; L'Auditeur National; Le
Meifager du Soir ; L'Eclair ; Journal de
Perlet ; Quotidienne ; Gazette Francaife ;
Gazette Dniverfelle ; Veridique ; Poftillon
des Armees ; Preeurfeur ; Journal General
de France; I.'Accufateur Public ; Les
Rhapsodies; La Tribune ou Journal des
Ele&ions ; Le Grandeur ; Journal des Co
lonies ; Journal des Spedtacles ; Le Dejefi
ner ; L'Europe Litteraire ; Journal de la
Correspondence ; Le The ; Le Memorial ;
Les Annales Univerfelles ; Le Miroir ;
Les Nouvelles Politiques ; Les Aftts des
Apotres ; L'Aurore ; and L'Etoile.
The charge against Pichegru is, that he,
bribed by the Prince of Conde, was to place
Louis XVIII. on the throne, and who, in
return, was to be made marlhal of France,
and governor of Alsace—To have the Sig
norfhip, with its Park—a million of livres
in ready money, and a pension of 200,000 a
year—with the estate called the Terre d'Ar
bois, which was to take his name.
Four Irijh fqldiers cj the Monaghan militia
•were sentenced by a Court Marjhal to le (hot,
on the 16th of May, 1797, at BelfaJl,for be
ing United Irifh-man. The Highlanders be
ing desired to fire on them, together with men
out of the different other regiments in the
town, replied, " Let Irijh kill Irish."
Three per eent, Consols at London, Sept.
14, were at 51-J 52^.
The heavy rains throughout Englaad, Ire
land, bfc. has done immense damage, from the
overflowing of rivers, &c. The 'quantities of
wrecks of horses, barns (sfc. our London
accounts say, which floated down the Wore,
were incredible.
All Persons,
IND1 BTED to the Efiate of Josfph John
son, of Germantown, in the county ot'Phi
ladelphia, deceased, are desired to make imme
diite payment, and those who have any demands
against ;a:d estate, Ere desired to bring forward
their accounts to either of the fubfsribers.
ELIZABETH JOHNSON,")
JOHN JOHNSON, j un . C Adminiflr's.
JOHN JOHNSON, )
Germantown, 10th mo.'27th, 1797-
Ofl. 31- ft,it.
Landing,
From on board the (hip Edward, at Walnut
it rcet Wharf,
London particular Madeira Wine,
of a superior quality, For Sale by the fubferiber.
Robert Andrews.
November J. eotf
%\-z
PHILADEL PHIA y
TUESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 7.
BOARD OF HEALTH.
I'.ef.dved, i hat the Board of lnfpcftors, ir>
behalf of their fellow cittzcsis, cannot omit
thanh.ng Meflrs. Girjr-i!, I.ownes, .Cumelly,
Swain* and Lefchwcrlh, who voluntarily en
gaped in the duties of the Hcalrh-Ofiice,during
the cdprirmnye of the late calamity, for their
punctual atttndsn :e and ufeftll exertions,
Pub'i/hed by order of the Board,
(7 , , JOHN MILLER,jun. chairman.
Health office, Nov. ?, 1707.
T he time of ferv'ce of a number of the In
fpefWs of .the Health-office, txpiring this day,
the Board feel iltehigheft degree of
that they can now. with propriety, congratulate
their fe!!ow-citben» on the complete restoration
of Health to the city and liberties.
Ptiblifhed by order of the Board,
tT ~ iv 'ILLE'K, jun. chairman.
Health-office,Nov 4,1797.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
New-Tori, Nov. 6.
arrived. ±>ays
Ship Mary, Allen, London 4 r
Minerva, Clarkfon, Amsterdam 98
Brig Conjun&ion, Holbrook,Carthegena 84
Nancy, Reed, Banavifta 51
The flv.ps Elhce and Argus failed about
two weeks before the Mary.
The Commerce, , of N. York, and
several others, are canied into Nantz.
The Venus, Burrill, frora Bangor, Wales,
to this port, is taken and carried into Bor
deaux.
The Margaret, Barns, sailed ly Graves
tnd tie 13 ih September
7he Polly, has arrived at Liverpootfrom
New-Tori.
■■IIHHIII J in. , , a»»—— „
For Sale or Charter,
GOOD HOPE,
Wi 1 carry about 1200 barrels, and
fri-Vl'lSa '* re »dy to take in a cargo. For terms
*■■■■■» apply to
Pragers & Co.
No 151, South Secand-ftreet.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Lisbon, and Tcnerifife wise.
November 7. dtf.
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Prime Rice in whole and half tierces
Bourdeaux Brandy
Tenerijfc IVine
Mtlajfts
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens Duck and one hog/head.jf paint
brujhes.
N. tsf y. Fraz.tr.
No. 95, South Front Street.
Nov - 1- dim-
FOR SALE, "
By the Subscriber, at his Store, No. 7j, South
Water-street,
A general aflbrtmsnt of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattins
do. Lutestrings
Do- d». Handkerchiefs
Do. do. sewing Silks
Imperial and Hyson Teas
I.ong arrd (hort Nankeens
Quicksilver, in tubs
Holland Gin, in pipes
Afforded G!afs Ware, in cases
White and brown Havanna Swgars, in boxes
Molafles, in hogflieaeU
St. Croix Rum and Jujjar, in do.
I'Ondon particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wines,, in quart-r casks
Red, yellow and pale Barks, in chests
Logwood, &ci See.
nro. 7. — JOSEPH SIMS.
Sales of Tenerifle Wine.
On IVEDNESDAT 'next, the %th inflaitt,
Precisely at o'clock, will be Sold, on Sinith'9
wharf, above Race-street,
For approved endorsed Notes at 60 days,
75 pipes London particular Ten«»
riffe WINE.
FOOTMAN & Co. AuSionccrs.
n member 4.
Drawing & Fainting Academy,
No. 63, Walnut-street.
JAMES COX,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and the
generous public, that his academy opens this
day. November the 6th.
Hours of tuition lor ladle?, from 1 till 4 in the
afternoon, and in Ihe ev«ning from 6 till 8 for
gentlemen.
J Cox has add-<d to Jif.s coHe&ion of copies a va
riety of fine views, <kc drawn from nature during
hisabfence from the city:
All kinds of colours prepared, and every article
used in the different branches of drawing and
painting, iold on reasonable terms.
Terms of Tuition, iSV* Dnllurs and a half per
quarter.
A morning class for grown ladles, frrom 11 till
12 o'clock. d3t HO-y. 6.
A Negro Man.
"C'OR SALE, the unexpired time (fonr years)
X of a stout, healthy, adive Negro Man. He
is by trade a Cooper, was brought up when a boy
to the farming business, is a good ploughman, un
derft'andsthe care find management of horses, and
is a good driver He has lately been employed in
painting a flew houfeaad points well—he is good
tempered, and believed to be very honest, fold part
ly tor want of employ,but more for being addifl
rd to liquor—For term, apply to No. ia, Dock
street, near Spruce flreet.
Nov. 6. t f
15 Dollars Reward. ™
RAN- AW AY from the Subscriber, cn the 29th
inft. an apprentice I.ad, named JOSEPH
B-vR.NET, by trade a paper-maker; about 19
year, of age, five feet seven or eight inches hiifh,
of a light complexion, tics his hair. Had on, and
took wiih him, acaflor hat, half worn, onebrown
mixture cloth coatee, new, one light do. half
worn, one flriped velvtt waistcoat, wish blue
cloth backs, one do. with fuftian backs, and fitn
dry other thin clothes. It is probable he will change
his clothes, as he took a number with him.
Any person apprehending said apprentice, and
lecturing him so that I can him again, lhall re
ceive the above reward, and rcafonaMe charges if
brought home.
PET EH. BECHTEL.
Lowr Merion toVnftip,
county.
oa'eber ' N I.—nw jw.To be Sold at Public Vendue.
/AN F'Vliv, the firfl ol December next, a%fi\
o'clock i»» the evenirg, tt the Merchants' Cof
fee H >ufe, in Pht'adcJphi?. Forty Thoufaod Nine
Hundred and Thirty Nine acres cf LAND,
now or lite in the Cgrirt'y of Waftimgton, and Com
monwra'th of PennsylVania, and "n the w?ters of
Frelh and Wlicejisg Creeks and Ten Mije Run.—
Thvfc I.jnds arc fertile and well timbered, and were
pateniccd rarlyHn except acres orrherea
bou-s, were patented in 1792. o»<e fourth
of th.? ptjrc'nafe money t»» be paid at the time of sale,
so' ilie refidu? a credit of one, two and thrrc months,
wiil Sc atvrn, on interest and good security.
(")i e »o l >er 6. 3:»WtS
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private sale)
ON Friday, the firit day of December, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
House in Philadelphia, Twenty .Si* Thousand Se
van Hu dred zr»d Eighty acres of LXND, in the
State of* New-Yoik. b-twem the northern bounds
Pcnnfylvania and the Susquehanna, now, or late,
tn the towndiips of Hamder and Warren, and coun
tr of One foarth of the p*rchafc
tnoney is to be paid at the time of sale ; for the le
fi-Jue a credit of one. two, and three months will be
given, on intrreft and good security.
Ofto&c 6. 3awtS
Pealk's Museum.
THIS valuable repoGtory of the works of Na
ture, so well calculated to delight the mind
and enlarge the underftandmg, is op -ned daily, as
urunl. lc llands in an airy and healthy Ctuation,
and free from the epidemic that at present affli«3s
the city ; it may, therefore, be frequented with
the treated fafery.
As an Air.ufiment, th« lludy of Nature is the
mill rational and pleating : as a Science, the mod |
full lime and inPruilive. It elevates the mind and
expands the heart. They
•' Wi!>9M Nature's vnrkl can darn, with GoJ bimfcf
" Hold converfc."
Many inter .sting additions have lately been
made to this Mufeumi a. d the feathered trihe,
cortairing a variety of the miift rare and beautiful
fubjeits, is now very advantageoully arranged
Varen Figures, of Men large as life (I'ome of them
calls from nature) are here drefTed ip their proper
habits, and j laced in attitude- ehara<3cri&ic of their
nations Here may be fee* the North-
American Savage,and the Savage of South-Ameri
ca—a Lboring CUinei'e, and the Cbinefe Gentle
man—the sooty African, and the Kamtfchadale—
with f.»me Natives of the Sourh Sea Islands. The .
immense variety and interetflng dive-lity which 1
tliis Mufeurn oners to the view, may be fecn but
oannot be with full effuS.
gjr Price only I-4th of a dollar.
!fv. 28 'aw
NOTICE.
ALtv person - indebted to the ellate of To UK
STRiKkR, late of Tinnecum Township,
Buck's County, are requested to pay off their
rtfpeiflive debts ; and those having any de
mands against fa id cflate, are desired to bring in
their accounts, to
JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN, fcHExecu-
MALLET PKErALT, J tors.
Sept. it. fiaw4W v
Davis's Law Hook Store,
No. 319, High-Strest.
GEORGE DAVIS,
BEING busied for f6m« time past in prepara
tions for removing into his profent house, has
been undo thcnecellityof poflponing until thiday
informi'ig the gentlemen ofthe Bar generally thro'
the Hinted States, that his spring impostation of
law books is now arranged ana ready for sale, on
terms that he trusts will entitle him to tholike pre
freence he has experienced for leveral years past.
Catalogues, oombining the molt varied collet
tion ever imported 1/1 to this country, are printed
and yill be delivered on application.
June 17. I" 6w
City CommiJJioners Office,
June 11, 1797.
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the felt#
and common councils, patted the »2d day of
May last, *ppointinp the city cwtrimifEoners,
and prescribing their duties, fedUon i;th,
NOTICE IS HEKEBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diftrilts,
tach to he under the fuperintendance of one of
the city commissioners, whoistobe individually
relponfible for the cleanlineft of the fame, and
are at follow.
Driftrifl No. 1. From the south fide of Ce
dar-street, to t"he north fide of Spruce-»reet,im
rthe fuperistendence of Nathan Boys,
a. From the north fide of Spruce-street, to
thrnorth fide of Walnut-ftreet,under the super
intendence of Hugh Rob*rts.
3. From the north fide of Walnut to the south
fide of High-street, under the fuperintend«nee oi
Joseph Claypoole. 1
4. From the north fide of High-street, to the
north fidr of Mulberry street, under the super-
Willism Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulberry-lfreet to
the north tide of Vine-street, under the Super
intendence of Nicholas Hicks-
Theclean'tngof High street to be in common.
0" A flatcd meeting of tht city commission
ers is held at thr Old Court House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at j o'clock
July M» eoim
Standi for Draymen, fstc.
In pur Juan et of an Ordinance from theSchß and
Common Counc:ls,bearing date tht lid day of
April, 1797, providing for tbe appointment of
City Commijionerj, iSc. HeS. the I fib.
THE following places are fixed upon by the
said City Commissioners for Stands for
Draymen and their Horses.
In Vine-street, eastward of Front-street, on
both fides.
Saffafras, High,Chefnut and Walnut-fttreets,
eastward ot Front-street, on the no.-th fide only.
Mulberry-street, south fide from Front to
Third-street.
Front-street, east fide from Vine-street to
Elfrith's alley.
Front-street, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's stores, east fide.
Water-street, weft fide from the north end of
Stomper's or Moore's stores to Pine-street.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce-Jar-ftreet, weft
fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South streets, e»ft of I'ront
street, south bde.
Dock-street, between Walnut-street and the
flag stone ctoflings, east fide, opposite George
Orklev's. r . »r-
Second-street, between Saffjfrit and Vine
flrerts, weft fide.
Fifth-ftreet, east fide from Chefnut to Mul
berry streets.
Salfafras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-flreet,
east fide. . .
No dray or horse to stand within ten feet of
FOR HACKNEY COACHES.
Pine-street, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
between Chefnut and Walnut
ftr ßra'nch street, north fide, between Third and
Fourth ,
July 14. mw&Hm
LAW BOOKS,
I Latest London and Dublin Editions.
H. & P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. i§, South Second, and No. 50, Market ilreet,
HAVE jull received by the lite arriva's from
London and Dublin, theii i'prir.g importa
tion, confiding of a variety of the latsft and moil
.improved I aw Boots, whicV ad Jed tothofe alrea
dy on hand, forms the nvoftcxtenfivc colle&ion ev
er offered i'or fa'e fn thin country. They thei efore j
beg leave to notice, that from the nature of their
conne&icnsin Dublin, they are enabled to felllrifb
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowed prices The following are among the latetf
publications.
Vefey, jun'rs Reports in Chancery, 1
Peake's Cases at Nisi Vrius ; Ridgeway's Reports
in tlie time of Lord Hardwicktf ; Floyer's Probers
Pra&ice in the Eccfcfiatlical Courts ; Barton's
Trcatife on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's Pra&ice of
the Court of' King's Bench in Personal Ad ions, a
parts complete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, 11 vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rice «pe& to receive by the firft ar
f rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durnford and Eafl's Reports, the id part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 16.
The History of
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and will be publilhed,
with all convenient expedition, by Zi ch A-
Riah Poulsmn, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fuWfcri / ions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed propj'als, until the
work is ready for the fubferibers.
July 18. lawtf
~ THIS DAY"WAS PUBLISHED,
And for ("ale by 7HOM-JS BOBSOX, at the
Stone House. No. 41, south Second street,
EVENINGS at HOME ;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUBGET OPENED.
Confining ofa variety of Mifeellan-ons Pieces for
thelnftraflion and amuferaent of Y >UNt3 PER
SONS— Six Volumes handiomely prntedand bound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these pieces are
such, that the book needs only to he known to be
uriiverfally efteenled one of thf valuably pub
lications th t can be put into the hands of young
psrfons.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender tho.ght,
To teach the young idea how tu (hoot,
To pour the frefh inflrudion o'er the mind,
To breathe th' enlivening fpirit.and-to fix
The generous purpofc in the glowing brcalt."
Thomson.
Augufl 24. mwf4w
THIS n AY IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMA& DOBSON.tt tht Stone House,
No. 41, south Second street.
Letters and Clonverfations,
Between several Young Ladies, on improving and ia*
terefting fubje&s.
Trroflated from the Dutch of Madame ie Camion
with alterations and improvements,
Printed an Jim p*per, and nwtly btund,
Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, painting
Mies ©f extraordinary difirefs, or of defperahi or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant of, this little book comes forward to so
licit notice, whe-?, in a variety of incidents, not ei
cceding the bounds of real lift, the proper, because
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Femah
cbaraSler is exhibited in an ititrrefting point of view,
and prcfents examples of real and attainable excel
lencc.
The publiflier was fomuch pleafedwkh the pem
fal, that he was persuaded he (hould do a pleating
ferviee to th<* community by fending ir in o circu
lation. Aug.ifl 24 —mw4w
Act laying Duties on Stamped Vellu m
Parchment and Paper.
A TEW copin of the above a.& may be had aj
he Office of the Gazette of tht United States, No.
JI9, Chefnut-fir cet. .- July jg.
The Partnership,
UNDER the firm of FPEEM.» N IS" Company,
is dissolved by mutual confeet. All persons
having any rt«mand* against thefaid House are de
sired to render :he fame to T. B Freeman ; and
those indebted to the House are desired to make pay
ment to him—By whom business will in future be
carried on,at his Store, No. 39, South Front-street.
Augufl 7 eod4W
Richard and James Potter
HAVF. removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftreet.
mguft t. w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijburgh CartiJ/e,
Shtppenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requeued to take notice, that
the partnership which has far some time fub
fifled between Mathiat Slough of Lancaster, and
William Geer, is now dissolved . but, not as M.
Slough inflnuatest. the public without jnft cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter on the fub
je6t from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital .f which is not now deem
ed necelfary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
more circumstantially inf.rmed of the merits of
this business. by applying to W. Geer may have
the perusal .f M. Slough'* letter, and then can he
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer is not perfeflly juftif.able in attaching him
fclf to any other person in the profecutioij of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place. ,
Now from the liberal and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the firfl effort in
this business, William Geer, in conjunction with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Wi'mer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can possibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
those wn<> wilh to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take' their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Hi.rfe,
Maiktt Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
established.
For the further accommedatiori of the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
of Sasiucl Elder, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thurlday,
and return from thenie and arrive at Harrilburg
every Saturday, so that passengers destined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed 00 Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 37, 1 797-
N. B. This Line of Stages starts from ths
house of William Ferrae, in Lancaster, on every
Tuelday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the house of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrilburg every Wednes
day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trirk Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its t««r from Philadel
phia. . niwf
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
North Vifch street', corner of North alley, No. 34,
HAS FOR SALE,
Bourdeawx Wine incafcsani
boxes, fix years old
White Graves Wine in calks
firklenburgs
Russia Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck
Linen
Hcfiatu
Diaper and Table Cloth
Empty i-agj
Common German Cloth
n afiTortmentof black coloxirsd Ribbons
Fine German t.aces
About twelve ton« Ruflia clean Hemp %.
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in small boxes, for family us*
Window Glafj /' ng 29 —nw
Kxcellerit Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto . ditt.i Claret in cases
Just received, and for Sale by
RunJL Is! Leech.
jf»S- %f . lawtf
Will be Landed,
From onboard the ship Capt.Blair,from
Hamhuig'n,
»o half s white Ruflia elean Hemp
a calks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer, L.
North Fifth ft-reet, No. 34.
June 16. (.
TO BE SOLD,
And immediate pojfejjion given,
A Convenient well bmthed Brick I enement,
with a cook house and other out lioufes, fitu
atcd in a pleasant part of the borough of Wilming -
ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
has forty feet front on West-street, and extends
through the square to Paftun'-ftreet, on which is
ereoled a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. .10.
Imported in the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. lit, South
Front street,
Hyson }
impertit J '
April 10. Rolf
Fjr sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-eift corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front '
on Walnut (Ireet, and one hundred and thiiteen
feet and an on Fifth street ; there a*e at
present two small two story brick hotrfes, and a
number of small tenements thereon,
Also, far Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Water-street, between Mulberry and Saflafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east
ward ninety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. Thtfe houses
ave the convenitn.ee of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and are a very desirable situa
tion for a in.-rchint, flour fadtor,or others who
may have ocrafion for storage of goods. This |
property will be fold on very reaio'iable terms
forcafh. For further information apply to the
printer.
July 31. m&wtf
T O BE SOLD,
And pojjejjion given immediaiely,
ALaRGK cwoftoiy r-rick Hnufe,handfomely
situated in Princeton. Tber' are four rooms
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings *1 feet in
length, and a piazza of 57 feet. J hcte is a pump
in the yard, an excellent kitchen ga-den, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
stables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
(tails la the two stables for 27 herfes. The heal
thiflefs and pleasantness oi its situation, and the
! number of genteel and agreeable families in and
| near the town, render it a desirable retreeat for a
; 'leman from the city. The commodioufnefs of
j the house, its central position, and the largeness of
1 vbe'tables.mak- it cvcrywayfuitableforatavcrn.fdr
which it hi» always been confiderd as a capital
ftaad. Inquire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princiton, Ang. is- 1 9 —dtwiawtf
City ot Wafhingtgn.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For tbe Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent twellmg-houfe zo,ocodollars,
& calh 30,000, ife jo.ooo
I ditto 15,000 St cask 15,00s 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 St cash 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,600 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & raft 5,000 10,000
l cafd prize of to,ooo
* do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,00 c
»o do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - . 10,000
»ix> da. 50 ' • to,ooo
400 do. »5 - - 10,000
I,ooc. do. »o - ao,ooo
15,000 do. 10. - i5«,ooo
16,739 Prizes.
33,261 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 4o»,oo»
N. B. Tofivour thofewho may take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the. l 4 st drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but OKI :
And approvednotes, fecu»ing payment in either
monsy or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
be received foi any number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
the private buildings to be crtfled in the City of
Wilmington—'Two beautiful designs arc already
leleiSed for the entire fronts on two of the publir
squares; from thrfe ispropofed toereft
twflcentrcaftd 'ourcorfier baildings as soon aspof
fcible after this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventures, in
the manner described in the febeme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nctt deduction of five per cent, will
be made to defray the ncceffary expenses of print
ing, Sec. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the Natianal University, to
be ejected within the city of Walhington.
The real fecuiitiesgiven for the payment of the
Rrizes, are held by tbe President and two Direct
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the amount ot the lottery.
SAMUEL IiLODGKT.
.5, Tickets may be had at the Bank ol CoUm
bia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Feter
pi'iman, JJofton : of John Hopkins, Richmond ;
W of Richard W»lfc, Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
This Day Publiflied,
Aad to be fold by WILLI AM YOUNG, soraer of
Second and Ghefnut streets, «
Price <* Dollar,
Ob/ervations on certain Documents
Containo t in No. V ami VI of
" The History of the United States for :
the year 1796," «
In which the ch/.roe or speculation against :
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary cf the Tr»asury, it FULLY ,
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BY himself.
This publication prefects a ccncife ftatpment
cf the base means pra&ifeti by the Jacobins of the
United States to asperse the chara&er* of thofct
pvrfons who arc coniiAred as hostile to their difor- |
ganizinjr fclumes. It also contains the cor- ,
rcfpondence Mr. Hamilton and Mctfral .
Monroe, Muhknburgh and Y enable. on the fuh
jeifc of the documents alorefaid, and" a scries of let- <
ters frem James Reynolds and his svi£e to Mr Ha- |
milton, proving beyond the poflihility of a doubt, -
that the connexion, between him and Reynolds,
was the refii 4 t of a daring conspiracy on th" part
of the latter and his aflbciates to extort money.
A discount of one third from the retail price
will be made in favor ot wholefalc purchafors, sos
cash. Orders to be addressed to Mr Yo#ng.
Auvu/l 2?.
Nol 188.
Dijlrtft of Pennsylvania, to <wit :
(l s) R B 11 W&MtLMBERED, that on the
* ' ' X) twenty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty second year of the independence of the United
Urates of America, John Fenno, of the said dff
triA,hath deposited in this office the title of a book,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the
words following:, to wit
44 Observations on certain documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of " The History of the Unit
" ed States for the
" of speculation, againll Alexander Hamilton, late
• 4 Secretary of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
" Written by himfclf "
In conformity to'he a& of thcCongrofs of the j
Ucited States, eniitule'd, "An a A for t'he cncour- ;
agement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts and books to th'- authors anc? propri
etors of such copies, during h« times therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of tbi DiJlriß tf Pennsylvania.
July *7. W4W
An elegant House in Arch Street.
TO be let and entered on immediaiely a large
and elegant house at the Comer of Arch and
Ninth Street. There are two drawing r<ioms
and one dining room—the Urged is j x feet by
16—and two are so connected by folding door,
as to make but one. Also five bed room*, be
sides $ in the garret, well fioilhed for fervantj. .
There are (tables and a eoach house, with evrr :
convenience for a fartjily. Enquire at No. 29, i
in North Seventh ftrcet, or at No. 218, Arch '
Street.
A tie. Ty.
William Blackburn, '
LOTTERT and BROKER'S OFFICE
No. 64 south Second-Sreet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 11, which
commenced drawing the 19th May, FOR
SALE. The price of ti&etswill rift in propor
tion at the driwing advances, particularly on ac
count of the five firft drawn tickets prize* of
four thousand dollars each, on the lad day at
drawing.
Check Books kept for examination and register
! ing, in the Canal, No. 1, City of Walhingtoo, No.
2, and Patcrfon Lotteries.
Alio, tickets for Sale in the Schuylkill bridge and
Perk omen Bridge lotteries, which will begin
drawing in the courfeof the fnmmer.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of Stock,
Bills, Notes, Land", Sic-Sit. tranlaCted with the
utmost attention.
Jiiltes tu&f
Erfkine's View of the^Wa/.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
No 40 South Second street,
[Price 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with Francs.
By the Honorable Thomas Ekskine.
May is fj
STATE TRIALS.
Sold b W. Yobng, Bookfcller, No. 51, South Sc
cond-ftreet,
The Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and
al of Francis Hopkinfsn, Judge of tbe Court of
\dmiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Youno has for sale, a general afiortmentof
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the paek
cge, well aflorted,and entitled to the drawback if
aipc-rted. July 7 —*
For Sale,
That will known place, called VANDtttitf 's
FdlT,
ON Nefhaminy treek, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, on the New York poll road,
containing 74 acres and 04 perches. Upon the
premises are a large two ilory stone house occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one story stone kit
chen, a large frame liable with i gt>ed threshing
floor, and fomc out buildings —also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a most elegant situation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nefham
iny to its jun&ion wiih the Delaware, and thence
acrofi to the Jersey shore. It has the privilege
of the toll received from the bridge.
For terms apply to the SnWcriWr,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
Y»v 14- atawtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MUS. GKOOMBRIDGE with m»ch pleaf
ureand refpecS, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
{he h3s received during four years residence in
Philadelphia ; and afltires her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, the has made a fupenor arrangem»nl for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by Mrs.
- Groombridge and maft«rs excelling in their
refpeflive profeflions.
Corner of Spruce and Elevsnth Streets.
June sth,' 1797. jimfrf
The fituatimi is perfectly healtky ; and made
more agrreableby an extenfiv# garden and lot
of ground adjoining the Tioule.
Jujl Published,
And to be had 01 MeCfrs. Dobfon, Campbell.Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfcllers in tV
city .price one dollar, twinty-five cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, u. d.
June jo. 'it
School Books and Stationary.
W. Y O~U N Ci,
No. <2, Second-flrcet, corner of Chefnut-fireet.
HAS now rraHy for sale, a very large affiort
ment of Eh.UJI, Frcn,.h. Latin and Gruk
SCHOOL BOOKS Also, filch elementary hooks
oh Science, as are generally read in the academics
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Dictionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, iarge 11 mo price I dol 75 «ts.
Ditto, common, price I dol.jects.
All forts of drawing, picking, printing, and
writing Paptr ; Bookbinder's Hoards. Paftehoards,
(heathing and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, of
the fceS quality, used in ti c counting hotsfe, or
public office.
Catalogues of a mifcellancous collection of
BOOKS, with the price of each affixed, to be had
bv inquiriti r above. Oit 14.—^aw6w
'JuJI Publi/hed, and now Selling,
By BENJAMIN DA VIES,
•At bis '<iiok -TORE, No .68,.Hifcrh-Stree\,'
The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AMD
ANNUAL REG ISTERfa-tlr if NIT ED ST A TE$
FOR THE YEAR 1 7QB I
Containing complete and corred lifts of the Execu*
tive, I and Judiciary
departments of government,
And a variety of ufeful tables, necefory to be
known in every State of the Union.
Emhcllifhed. -with two, handsome Engravings,
One of which is depictive of a melancholy fccne
that occurred during the American war.
OA. 18.
The Philadelphia, Atjwn>ati3 luderton
MAIL S T A G E.
rHF. proprietors beg leave to inform the public, that
tbey have efablifhed a Stage between Philadelphia,
Atjion, Batflo, Hampton, Speedwell, and Martha Fur
! ncce y Wading River fitting mill, and the town of Tuck
, erton, in New-ferfey, to go once a week. and are provi
ded v ith good horses, a comfortable carriage, and a care
ful driver, for the coHveyar.cc of the mail, passenger*, and
goods. The Stage will fart every thursday, at I©
« o'clock, A. M from Mr. Daniel Cooper's Ferry t and
! lodge that night at foel Eadinas, at Lougacoming ; and
| on on Friday, at 6 o'clock, P. M. arrive at Cileb E-
Ivans's, inlecper, in tuck erton, dipant from the city 54
miles, (from the Atlantic 6, and from the Eafl Grouping
I Plains 7 miles J where are good accommodation* for tra
vel lets, and where dtre commodious and fafe passage bo ate
'provided to convey passenger s to Ca'J. William IVar
, rington s house, on Tucker s If and, adjoinining the At
lantic, ii berc are good accommcaaftotis, and a convenient
place to bathe ; the fportfnan who wishes to regale himfelf
with fowling andffhing, may at this place be highly gra
tified, there being at aim of every fcafon of the year fowl
; andfjh in abundance.—the Stags on its return y fartx
\ from the aforefaid C. Evans's in tucker ton, every tuef
' day, at 6 o'clock, A. M. brc.ikfafs at fohn Bodme s, at
IVading River Bridge lodge that night at Longacoming,
and at i 0 clock, P, M. on IVednefday, arrive at the
aforefaid Cooper's Ferry. It is pre fumed that no route of
an equal difance will be less cxpenftve, or fumifh the tra
veller with a greater variety of amusement, as he will
not only have a p leaf ant fail to the atlantic from tucker
ton, but have the curiofhy of feeing on the road thither a
number of capital furnaces and forges, and one Jliliing
mill, in complete order, and at work ; gentlemen, too, ii>ho
are owners, or fad or s, of t±ny_ of the aforefaid iron works,
are solicited to encourage and support this ft age (by wh ch
they can be so well accommoda fed) the continuance of which
will much depend on their aid. the rates of pffjjcngers
and baggage are as follows : For a passenger from the
aforefaid Daniel Coopers Ferry to Tuck erton, including
14 lb. of baggage, Two Dollars ; for way passengers
per mile, Four Cents— 150 lb. of baggage equal to apaf
j fencer. Pof age of letter*, newspapers, Use. will be
( agreeably to law.
N. B. The mail crosses from the Old Ferry.
THOMAS IVAJRDI.E \sf Co.
| tucierton, Sept. 28. O<7.J. —tawtf
T he Norfolk Mail STAGE?
'"I 'HIS Stage starts from the GF.OROF. Tavern,
JL at the corner ol Second sud Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every Turfdai, Thursday, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the iroming ; arrives at Do
ver the firft day, at Snowhill the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and on
the morning of the fourth day the paflcngcrs fin<J
a fafc and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton fetry,
every Tuefdiy, Thurfiay and Saturday, and the
Stage starts from this ferry for Philadelphia, ever/
Mon.'ay, Wcdnefday and FriJay; puts up at Snow
Hill the firft night, at Dover the id night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the ihird
day.
The distance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles less than on any stage route
between those places
- Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
f whithitmcft excellent indeed. The proprietors
- willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
[ passenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a,ftage for the fame
f distance, so good a road in America.
Auenft jr. dim.eotf.
f
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other in
f iheCicy—
OF VARIOUS SIZES,
From 8 by 6 to 19 by 14,
By the single Box or Quantity, may be had at the
' ftorc of the Subscribers, corner of Arch and Front
? ftrcet.
James C. & Samuel W. Fijher.
Philadelphia, June 9, 1797.
[ Lately Published,
- Tn >ne vol. 8 vo. (price one dollsr in beards) fold
by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of Second and
c Chefnut streets,
t A Colledlion of Papers on the fubjeft of
Billious Fevera, prevalent in the United
States for a few years past.
Compiled by NOAH IVSBSTRR, jut.
Containing letters from Doilors Seaman, Ssiith,
- Buel, Taylor, Ramsay, Monfon, Reynolds, Mitch
ell,on contagion, &c. ic».
Sept. 15.
I THE SUBSCRIBERS,
t ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GRIENLEAF,
1 HEREBY give notice, that they have disposed
t of the property assigned to them for the l'ecuring
r the payment of the notes acceptances, md cn
r dotfements given by Edward Fox, for the ufie
r ofthefiiid James Greenlcaf; and the holders of
e such notei, acceptances, and endorsements, are
1. hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will fettle
r with them for the amount of their refpedlive
ehrims, both principal and intsrest, at
any time before the »cfh day of OiSlober next j
after which dav, the holder* not applying, will
e be excluded, agreeably to the term* of afiign
t ment.
Application! to be made at south-east corner
of Dock and Second streets (the Dock-street
fide), between the hours of eleven and one o'
•lock every day, Sundays excepted.
J Henry Pratt,
», Tho. IV. Francis,
t yohn Miller, Jun.
John /tjhlty,
Jacob Baker.
Philadelphia, Augu>ft iS, 179.7. 4