cf tfjc WitiltfU o}tUtt!S<> and -Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
N'JM'JF.R 1578.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
Far DR T GOODS.
f Fosaftnon—Edward Fox, No. 56,
; r , N so Fr.onr ftrc»t»
" "y\ Af'tcroi/in —Footman & Co. No. 6j
(_ South front itreet.
Forenoon— John Conroyily, Old* City
Auftion, No. 73'fouc'h l'rom-ftreet.
• j'" .' S Afternoon—William bhannon, No.
C 18.; Iligli-ftic-et.
j A rri^ v ,T iJenfftn ' No - 74
( ibiith ihird-ftrcct.
Thursday J Fox.
X Afternoon—John Connelly.
F' : 'lu■ I Forenoon—VVill «i» Shannon.
J 5 Afternoon—John Cor ,j -11 jr.
Saturday Afternoon—Peter Benfon.
HAVANNA SUGARS."
FOR SAL E,
1400 boxes and calks prime white Havan
na SUGARS,
On board the (hip HambufgV Picket, Silas
S*-aiiij Mailer, now. lying at Marcus Hook.
For terrvs. apply to Capt. Sw i«n; on board, to
Capt. Samukl Smith, in F rmt, near Wal
nut ftreet,-or to r
Philip NicL'in, & Co.
r Who offer the'laid Ship
Hamburgh Tacket
■ SALE or CHARTER.
She i» 310 tons regilter, competed to the bends,
Hiils remarkab'y faft, and ean be ready to te
.ecive a targp in a few days.
s 'rpt it. diw
Antigua Rum,
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing from on hoard the
Brjj Ayilbaii) \\jliiami,. Mailer,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
\ And for Sale bv
Jehu IloUingfUjorth & Co.
, Wilmington, Sept.ir. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
'he brig GAYOSO, are
<b<Vv!j"' "'rjf *"0 fix* Sale or Charted and
—new ready to receive a cargo
on board, at Wilmington. A ppiy as above.
For Savannah,
>-«««& The Fast failing ship, '
Pat« tc?* Gribbin, Mailer,
Now lying; opposite the mouth
r.. Ftankfard Creek, has h.mdfome accommoda
tions for paflenpers, and wilhfoil on or about
tJk- 1 ft of Oiflpber. , V
For freight orpaffige apply to the mailer on
board, or of the fubfenbers at Fr'ankford, 5 1-1
miles from Philadelphia.
Nalbro cs 5 J. Frazier.
Frnnkfur.', Sept. iS. dt tftO-
For HAMBURGH, "
»--«««. Copper Bottomed Ship
v FA v 0 R I T E > J° H! '
.?§* Thompson, Milter, now at
fright's wharf, and will be rea
'V ' t'-"- < ! y to take in on Monday next,
part ot her cargobeinjj engaged
and ready to go on board. The (hip is so well
known, that it Is rieedlefs to defcrihe her. She
is now in compleat order. For Freight or P af
file, pleale to apply at Mr. Jeremiah Warder's
Compting Houfc, No. 12, North Third flreet,
or so the Master on bord.
August joi
For SALE,
On board the said Ship, Swedilh Iron, afibrted
Hollow and Window GUIs, Demvjohns, Wrap
pifig Wiper fjr Sugar Refiners, Rugs of I' & z
Quality. Pltaft to apply as above.
wf&m4w
FOR SALE,
BRETAGNES in cases
German Cfcecksin do.
Cambrlck
Piatt ilia s
-' ; Oznabrigs
Gold and ftlver Watches
Window Gtafs lo b.y 8 1
. Glass cafes
Linfced Oilin c&fk*, &c. &c.
George Fennoc4,
103, High-Streit.
J'jtyj- 3aw
TO BE SOLD,
And pojfcjjion g'rvtn immediately,
ALAHGE two story feriek Hnufe, hand Comely
firuatcd in Princeton. There are four roonas
and large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a lange of back buildings .51 feet in
langth, and a piazaaof 57 feet, ihcteisapump
in the yard, an excelleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage houfeami two
fitibles, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
jQalls in the two ("tables for a 7 horses. The htal
.thinefy and plea)St\trefs ot its fituaticn, and the
number of genteel and agreeable families in .and
n«4r the town, reader it a definable rctrceat for a
gentleitian from the citj. Ihe commodioufnefs of
the houfc, it= centtal position, and the largeuefs of
ithe flahles,make itlevety wayfititabl#foratavern,for
which it has always been confiderd as a capital
ila.ld. inquire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. 25. 19 —dtw2awtf
NOTICE.
IF TBEbv O'Hara, who feme yea»» fincekepr
School it the Nice Bridge*;, Queen's County, Eaf
iern, Maryland, be livLng, he"is hereby re
minded to call on, or write to, the Rev. Ambrose
Marshal, nc,ir Warwick, Cecil County, Eastern
•Shore 1 Ivlury-Jand, from whom lie will receive m
terefti formation.
Augufi 4 • mwsc f4 w
TO BF SOID VERT CHEAP !
A W,A GGON almost new, wijh a frame—
and a pair of harness (English collars) never
been ttfedrr price 90 Dolls.
A Ifor.r 16 hands high, seven years old—and a
new chair, with a falling top and harncf*— 3so.
Enquire No. 331, Marktt-firect
Augud 24. diw
PETER BORGER,
INFORMS his friendi and the public in general
that he.has rtmov.d frcm No. 119, corner of
Arch and fourth, to 105 North Fro;.t, be
tween Arch at)d Race llrtfet..
July I*. uw/jw
P 111 L A DELPHI A: FRIDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 29, 1797.
The Partnership,
T "ND?R ti;e srm crt fSiEE M Mm to" Company,
is diiloived by mute J content. Ali persons
hiving any Hewan«)k
; ojer lie t« T. Is. Freeman ; and
tijol.- t<i iu 11,.nfe jr ■ dckre<i to make pay
ment" to h^in—.'1T whom buAnefs will in future be
carried cin,»t hi»Stcro, Ko. jadSoutS Fronr-ftreet.
-7 ' eod4w
Young Hyion l ea.
40 chells ot a quality—ilfo,
100 do. of Hylon,
Imported in thc lVoodrcp Sims, and for sale by
the fublcriber, corner of Second and Pine
ftfcet.
C. H(light.
June it. eotf
Imparted in' the Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morto'n, No. 116, South
Front-street,
lfyfon
Hvfort Skin Cirn a u
Yonris Hyson r
imperial J
April 20. sots
| "The Norfolk Mail STAGk.
j r Stage furts froit\ the GF.ORGE Tavern,
1 at the corner ol Second arid Arch Streets, in
i Philadelphia, every "Tu«fan^ t and Satur
day , fit 3 o'clock, ia the iroruing ; arrives at Do
j vcr the firft day, at Snowhill the second -day, at •
, Northampton Court House the third day, and on
! tne miming of the fourth day the paflciigers fizid
i a fafc ;ind comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk,
A packet leaves Norfolk, for Northampton fury,
everyTuefdiy, Thurf.iay and Miturdtty, and the
St3£c starts from this ferry ffcr Pniiadc'iptua, e-very
rilon»'ay, Wcduelday and Friday uup at lincw
Hill the firft night, at Dover the 2d night, and ar
rives 111 Philadelphia iu the evening of the third
day.
1 lie distance on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is So miles less than on any stage route
between thole places
Too much cannot be said in favor of the road,
which is most excellent indeod. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
passenger, ,who, after having performed this, route,
will fay that hi. ever travelled in a f/age for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
August 11. dim. eotf.
This Day v Published,
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, corner of
Second and Chefnut streets,
yZlbs of a Dollar,
Observations on certain Documents
Contained iw No. V and VI of
" The History of the United States for
the year 1796,"
In which the c« rge or speculation agamft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Seckjctary of the Trlasukv, is FULLY
REFUTED.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
Th s publication prefers a concise ftatcment
of the base means pra&ifed by the Jacobins of the
Uoited States to afpeife the charadlers 6f thof«
p»rfons who arc coniidcred as hoflile to their difor
ganzing schemes. It also contains the cor
respondence between Ms. Hamilton aud, Mellrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgfi and Venablc, on the fub
jeeit of the documents alorcfaid, and a series of let
ters from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr. Ha
milton, proving beyond the pofTibiliiy of a doubt,
that the connexion between him aud Reynolds,
was the result ol a daring eonlpiraoy on the part
of the latter and his afTociates to extort money.
A diicourt of one third from the retail price
w iil be made in favor of whoLfaic purchasers, for
cash. Orders lo be addressed to Mr Young.
<su vu(l *5.
No. 188. ' '
D'Jlr'iS of Pennfylvamciy to wit :
/ Lt j\ DE IT that on the
i.) twenty sixth day of July, in the twen
ty fccond year of the independence of the United
States ot America, John Fenno, of the said dif
triA,hath deposited in 'this office the title of a book,
the right wlj/reof he claims as proprietor, in the .
words following, to wit :
u O'rfervations on certaiH documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. of " The History of the Unit
" ed States for the year 1796,'* in which tha charge
*' of speculation, agaiull Alexander Hamiiton, late
" Secrctiry of the Treasury, is fully refuted—
" Written by himlelf "
In conformity to 'he a & of the Congrcfs of the
Uc:ted States "An aft for the encour
agement of] learning, by fecuriug the copies of
maps, charts and books to the authors ant? propri
etors,of such copies, during the times therein men
tioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Cltrk tj the Dijlridt of -Pcnnfyl-vania.
July 27. ' w4w
Mrs. GIIATTAN
INFORMS her friends.and the publicin general,
that her house, No. 192, M will con
tinue open during the fiekm fs.
Board and Lodging in a feparats room, ten
noLLARs, in a double room, eioht dollars.
For the convenience of those gentleman who
have not their amilies in town, Mrs. ©rattan
will receive gentlemen to dine at half a dollar
a day. August 29. — 6t
Imported in the latest arrivals from
AmOerdam and Hamburg, and for sale by
B. y J. Bohlen,
A large ajfortment of Jine French Cambrics,
Platillas kuffiaindlXitch sailcloth
15rittannias Writing, port, and print-
Uouanes jng paper
Brown Holland Durch calf skins
Cheeks and stripes Prime madder
Ticklenburgs Shell'd Barley
Oznahui'fis Looking glalTes
\ l . hite fbeetings Hollow gl»fc ware
Diaper Slates
i?rown rolls Coffee mills
Umbrellas Brai's kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and draw knives
Black and whitelaces Tovs allot ted in
Bell Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Madeira Wine
July 24. m&thtf
'Cedar Shingles.
THE fu'ifcriber has a .juantity of 3 feet Cedar
Shingles cf a superior quality, for sale at 13
dollars pvr thousand.
William Hallozvell,
No. [93 North Thir:!-frr;et.
Jily a;.: eout
By John Ff.nno 3 N°- 119 Chefnut Street.
CUSTOM-HOUSE,
T j.„ Pkiif.iMp, s#t. «a, i 7V .
* nh iVJcThaiKs who pr tins time prefer hav
j pf# vheir vcfl>ti and Merchandize ertterf-d and
j c!t rifd at Cbefter or Marcus lioc k,—<-.re here
) fey notified, J hat in co»»>r'wnre with the ir tie
, lire,amt a ffeH con vision that the measure
wijl he tt«utiia-Jly beneficial to them and to the
United Srates, i he cc.lledloT of the ciiflomshas
nvde arrangements to efiafklirh f rtbnie time
branches of the cuflom-houfe'at ihofe places,
where every accommodation in his power will
he given to the merchants. *h\y
: ~ TO BE SOLD, "
And immediate pojfeffion giver?, ''
A Convenient well fiiiifhcd Brick Venemert,
witlva cook house and other out houfec/fitu
•itcd iu a pleatant part of the borough of Wi'ming
ton, in the St-ue of Delaware—The lot of ground
forty feet front on VVeft-flrcet, and extends
through the square to PaHurr-ftreet, on which is
ereileJ a liable and carriage honfe.
ALLEN M«LANE.
Lately Published,
In one vol. 8 vo (price one dollar in boards) fold
by WILLIAWt YOUNG, corner of Scc&ndaßd
phefriut fireets,
A Collefh'on of Papers on thq fubjeft of
Bdliocs Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few yeafs pad.
Canpi/ft! hy XO/1H ■IPMBSTEfy jun.
Containing lett?r* from Doctor 1 ; Seaman, Siiith,
Busl, J ayior, Ramfjv, Monfou, Rcy(,ulu'», Mitch
ell, on contagiou, Sic. &c.
»pt.'r-f rt
City CommiJJhners OJfiee,'
Auglitf 20, 1.797,
IN pursuance of an Ordinance of the Seieib and
. Common Council, palled the lid day of Mayl^ft.
Pro;iofal*in writiqg will be received hy the City
CoiamiGooere for one month from the Ift of Sep
tember next, for letting to rent on leafen -for ore
year totummencethe firft day of January next, the
following public property of the city— " j
The wha'f an J landing on Vine Street,
Also on Saflafras,
Mulberry, '
And High Streets,
Chefnut and Walnut Streets, Oraw Sridge, with
th« Scale and Fifli Houses, Spruce, Pine and Cedar
Streets.
The cellar under the City-Hall.
1 The Tavern at* the middle ferry on Schuylkill,
with the lots contiguous thereto, (except so, much
thereof as shall be occupied by any buildings ereil
ed for the use of the Colleitor of the Tolls, or be
neceflary for the toll-gates.)
AtR- .1 - JUwim.
LOST,
ON the PafTymik Road, between the Bice Ball
and the city, p Fowling Piece, with a brass
bai rcl and silver (l^ht; on the plate of the butt are
the letters "Jamaica, Q_ 99" —and on the barrel
near the lock '•London" and the Tower (lamp.
Whoever will return the 'aid piece to John Barnard,
atthefign of the Blue 8311 on the Paflyunk Road,
or the office of this Gazette, shall receive a reward
of Four French Crowns,
Sept. 11. »3t
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an ail of Congrcft ef the
United States of America, parted at Phila-'
delphia, the 28th day of May, 1796 ; laying du
tias on Carriages, for the conveyance of perfont,
which shall be kept by or for any person, for his
or her own use, «r to let out to hire, or for the
conveyance of pafiengirs, the fcveral duties and
rates following, to wit : <
For and every Coach, 15 do'.s.
tijiou every Ctariot, ii dols,
upon every Pod Cluriot, n dols.
upon every Poll Chaise, 11 dols.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top,
9 dols.
upon every Coachee, 9 dol«.
upon dther Carriages, having pannelworlc
above, with blinds, glafles o:- curtains,,
V) dols.
1 upon Ifcur wheeled Carriages, l aving fra-i
med posts and top 4 with itecl fphng6,6j
dols.
npon four wheeled Carriages, with wood
eru'r iron fprinf»<nr jacks, 3 doll.
Upon Curricles with tope, 3 do's,
upon C'haifes with tops, 3 dole,
upon Ch.iirs with tcps, 3 dols.
upon oth.r two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, With steel or
iron
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, i doh.
upon every four wheeled carriage, hoving
framed polls and top*, and refliog up
on wooden spars, 1 dols.
The Collectors of v th; Revenue for the firft Sur
vey of the Diftriil of PennfyWania, will attend
daily, until the 30th day of September n»xt, lor
the\uipofe of receiving the duties on Carriages, at
Germautcwn ; at the houfc of Daniel St. Clair,Eiq.
in the County of Montgomery; and at rlie hoalc
of James Chapman, Esq. in the County of Bucks ;
of which sllpetfonopoireired of fucU Carriages are
deCred to take notice.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dis
tilled spirituous liquors, that will be grant
ed to them ; one-licence for carrying on the bufi
)!*fs of retailing of Wines, ill a less quantity, or
in left quantities than thirty gallons—and one li
cence for carrying on the bufmefs of retailing
rituous liquors in lefsquantities than ao gallons, at
the Tame time and at the fame places, by the offic
ers legally authoril'ed t« grant such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpe&or of the Revenue of the firft fui
vcy of tlfc Diftrifl of Pennfylvaitia.
Office ol Infpetflion at ") dim
Cermantow, 121U Sept. 1797. _)
1 M PORTED
In the ship America, Jame* Ewing, matter, frcm
Hamburgh,
Brown Hollands
White Piatillas
T icklenbtirgs
Coatfe Linens
Tqpca • (
cafes.
GUfs 1 umblers J
FOR SALr. 15Y
George Pennoek«
14. _ 3aw
Act laying Duties cn Stamped Vellum,
Parchment and Paper.
A FFW copies of the above aft may be r4
th-. Office of the G tzette" of the Stat< I-*o
119, Chefnut ftrc«t, v Jaiy t9^
To be Sold at Public Vgodue,
ON Fridav 29th inftjut, at three
o'clock in the afternoon, at the %n cf iSc
king of Prdfla.4> near tne market house in Gee*
mautownja two (lory ftojie dwelling houfc, bam
and and lot or : acres
ground, part of whtcfi is an orehaf dos etc eiten't
fruit trees, situate near the middle of Gerrnan
town, on Ihe north raft fide of the main frreet
<h* road, CQntain,ing in fVont ori the faki iirct't
e'r rnad 149 te< t nine inches; bounded by grpum!
ot Dr. Befton aud others and opposite to the
melltiage and lot or Melchior Ming, The above
l°! ' s ciover meadow, aqd has a never
failing ft ream of water running through it.
Also three other lots of pro-und, each contain
ing about two acrefs, iifuate on the fouih call
fide of KittenhoyfVs Alill road,common.v called
Peter Smith's Lane, in Germantown towiifbip,
at the diiiance of 270 yards from the foutli we.'t
fide of the Ge»mantown main flreet, hounded
bv lands of Conrad Carpenter, James
Jacub'Keout, and Melchior Ming. The above
lots are high and pleasantly situated, ccinmsnd
ing a pleasing profpecSb of Gernunt.own and the
Schuylkill and WiiTahieccn hills, and are well
adapted lor gentlemen's country lea's. Thp
said lots are now irr clover, ai>d there are on the
fame upwards ol 200 grafced fruit-trees, >
A good and indisputable title, Viear of a 4! in-
I cumbrances, wiil be given lo the purcualcr
tweniy days after the sale, upon the payment
of one half ol the purchase money, and fe living
the other half by mortgage up<*n the
premiles.
PpficfMpn of the firft deft ribed lot ar.d prenii
fes may be had on the ifyth A'pril next, ared'im-"
mediate ponVl]l''n may be had of the thuc Lit .
mentioned let . ' ' j
Any person, wishing tb view the above pre- :
may fee the fame b> applying to Benj.
Lehman, in Germantown near the Market
i houie. FOX, Auctioneer. !
Germant(nvn, 22d Sept. 1797. dtS i
i
Sundry Lots
IN the following Squares in the City of VVafhing
ton wid be exposed to PuaLic Sale, by the sub
scribers, on the second Monday iu October next,
at the Little Hotel, in the said City, to com
mence at Ic o'clock :
Square No, 3i, 41, 43. 44, 47. 48, 49. JO, J5,
66, 67,68,69, 70, 73.74.75. 76, 77. 7&. 79.iai.
ioz, 105,118,119,110,141, 61,56, 84,104, 87,
88, 89, 104, 114, 115, iio, 61, 166, 80,103,
| square east of square 87,fquare south of square 104,
square north of square 81, square east of square 88,
square north of square 128.
These I.ots are advantageously situated in the
neighborhood of the President's Square, and deem
ed equal in value to any in the city, and will be
peremptorily fold; clear and valid titles will b«
made to the pur chafer, on receipt of the purchase
money. Terms of sale, are, good notes, negotia
ble at the Bank of Columbia, one fourth part in
one motith, one other fourth in three months, one
other fourth in five months, and the remaining one
fourth in seven months.
WILLIAM DEAKINS, jun.
URIAH fORxE&T.
Sept. 41. dts
At the Federal Blafl Furnace,
In Carver—-for Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
Mil ls.
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers.
THE IK superiority conjijls in being free from
holes and honey-combed places, which 1 are com
monly found in f-01/ers cajl in sand, or clay
moulds. These patent rollers are cajl in ircn
moulds, previously heated, and ivill be faund to
be 7>ioredcnfe, solid and durable than any rollers
heretofore used. Another important advantage
they 1 hai'e over others, is, that the neeks require
no turning, but are immedaitelj fit for life, and
front ti/eir accuracy, run with iff frifliin, niui
require iefs water to make ■, them perform their
work. 7 hey rr\c,y be had by application to the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gets. Nathaniel Good
win, or of Jtteflrs. Thatcher a.-. .4 tJxy jvArJ.
Boflttt, Aug. 31.
Sept. 19. §U.
Mr. L AI L S~O N,~
WITH an intentiofi to rendrr service, and unde
ceive thole Performers, who during his abfenre Mr.
Jaymond has thought proper to engage, thinks it
woald be wrong in nvt to inform those that
are engaged, that it is witl ou* hi-i approbation,and
that he will not be in any way answerable for r
JayitiOnd's engagements.
PHILIPPE LAILSON.
A\exandria % Sept. 15» 179 6t.
■ THEWBSCRTbers,
ASSIGNEES OF JAMES GREENLEAF,
HhKHijy give notice, that they have dil'pofed
of the pijoperty affigncd to theitrfortbe fccuring
the-piyment of the acceptances, sud et.-
doifeniente given by Edward Fo*, for the life
ofthefei'd James-Greenleaf; and the, holders of
such notes, acceptances, and endorsement*, aie
hereby notifyed that the fubferibers will f>tt!e
with them for the amount of their refpeilive
claims, both principal and interi'st, at
any time before tlie 20th day of Odlobcr next j
after wlrich dav, the holders not applying, will
be excluded, agreeably to the terms of align
ment.
Applications to 1-* made at foutli-eaft corner
of Dock and Second streets (the Pock-flreet
fide), between the bours of eleven and one o'
clock every day, Sunday- excepted.
Henry Pratt,
Tho. IV. Francis,
John Miller, Jun.
, John AJhley, «
Jacol Baker.
Philadelphia, Aujfoft 18, 1797. d
Just pub!ifiled,
And to be'fold at the Bcokftores of H. & P.
Kice, No. 50, Market-street 1 J. Ormr >d,
No. 41, Chcfnut-ftreet, and Young,
i-orner of Chefnut and Second-flreef:,
An accurateSyffera of Surveying;
IK VHICH is GONTAINfc'D,
I. Decimal fra&ions, in a plain, concise,
and easy manner.
1. The extra'"lion of tiie square root.
3. Plain trigonometry, reibrg-uiar and ob
lique.
4. An exa& metfukl to cafl up {he eoutcnt'i
of lari'is. .
5. Field fttwfio?.
'l'br whole beiiif? perforintd without the ul'e
i of scale and comi>afies, on a table of 1
In which is given feme aceuuat of t'ue v«iri. iiprt
of th? needle, and the caiif-.s or its attrition.
11/ 3AMUSL MOCU-E.
I
180 M aS' Hete ?,i AN LF. l/FF£R,
-North JTiJto tifWt, coiner ps North alley; Ho. 34
i HAS FOP. SALE,
I FXT ; N'T red HouHeattx: Wine iac&f.sar.i
Sfcxe*,' 1:5 years old
Whit* (lqn-/4t U'ifit i:l Cl-flu
RuCiu j ail (,'lctfcs
Rayer (Duck %
HdTuri
Oiaptr VdTablcClotk
lintpty I %"'4
Common German Cloth
° b assort Aent of black coloured HiLum
Fine Germtn l.aces
Ahouttwelfc tons EuUia clean Hemp
Clover Seed*
l< * oa P» iri fmali-boxas, for family ufs
V\ indow Glrtfs /\ dp* ——ii>v
THIS DAY WAS PUHLISHKI),
And for frtle'ty THOMAS JjORSO.V, at the
' St oil e Hrmfc, No. 41, south Second llre<,-t #
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE JVJDGET OPENED.
Contiiling of a variety of IvtifceHani-ous Pieces for
the itjftru&ion and aittofemmt gf YOUNG FER
30NS—-SixVolumesfcandfomcly printeditnd bound
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
ife variety and excellence of these piece* sre
fuTi, tour tie book Reeds ©ftty ro be known to be
univerfaJJy efleemcd one of the moil valuable pub
:ic*-itioris th t can b£ put into the banc's of young
ptrions. v
44 Oelij. • cful tafc to rear the tender thooghf,
1 o teach the fouirg idea how t.> ihoot,
To pour tr e f/efii inllru<siion o'er the mind)
To breathe.th- cn fpirit, untf to fix
The generous piypofe in the glowing breast."
' Thomson.
Aiifpift 24- mwf^w
THlsvD YIS PCiiLISHEP, 3"
By THOMAS DOE^QiV, at ths Stone House,
No. 41, south ftreet,
Letters and Converiati.ons,
Between several Ladies, 6n improving and in
terefling fufcjefls. .
TranEated frdm tUe.Duteh of Madame de Cari/icn
/. with alterations and improvements,
P rihtid onfne paper, and neatly bound,
Price one dollar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, paintii%
tales of extraordinary dHlrefe, or of desperate tr
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," ami
which it would be for the honor of your:g ladies so
be ignorant of, this little book comas forward to so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the boundsof real life, the proper, bccaufi
elegant and natural dignity and importance of the Female
character is exhibited in an interesting point of view,
and presents examples of'real and attainable excel
lence.
The publifiier was fomuch pleafedwith the pent
fal, that he was persuaded he ftiould do a pleating
service to the community by fending it in o circu
latian. .August 24 —mw4c
To Majlers ahd Pilots bringing up Vejftlt
from Foreign Ports to this City.
"TTTHereas sundry infringements have lately been
VV made on the laws of this slate for the pre*
venting pestilential or infe<slious diseases, either
from ignorance or inattention thereto, it is tho't
expedient at this time to publish the following ex
tracts from the laws of 22d April, J794, 7th and
Bth feflions.
HEALTH-OFFICE.
June 6th, 1794,
Extract of an atifor fcuring the.city and pert
of Philadelphia from the ir.trodkSion of pefli
lenlial and contagious diseases.
Sect. 7. And be it further ijnafled, that every
matter or captain of any (hip or VefTel coming from
sea (veficls aiiually employed n the loading trade
excepted) and bound to any port or place within
the jui-ifdidion of eaufe his ship
or vessel to be bronghtto anchor,or otherwise flay
ed in the iiream 6f the river Delaware, oppofitt k>
the Health-Office on St.-ttt-Ifhnd aforelr.id, ami
there to remain until he shall have djily obtained a
certificate or bill of heabh from the Refidcnt Phy
iician. And it, previatthy to obtaining fucli certi
ficate or bjll of liea Ith, any mailer or captain (hall
si ller hi' (liip or vtCel to approach nearer than the
laid liealth-Qfucc to tlx city of I'ailadelphia, or
Hull liind, ( caufcorfuffer to be landed, crjhrotight
on (bore, at any place or port within this Coi.;-
ntPuwealth, or at aty other part or place, with the
ii'ceut ol being conveyed into this Commonwealth,
any piri'on or perform, or any godds, wares or mer
chandize. or, if after receiving such bill of health
o. certificate, lie shall ncjrlc& or refule to deliver
the lam-.to theHealth-Qlßc«r,fuch mafleror cap
tain fliall lorfe.t :wid p-;y, lor each and every such
olfence, the l'uniof five uund»ei> dollars.
And the captain or mailer of every lhip or ves
sel ftuiil fend a fafe and commodious boat to bring
;he fhyficiaii 011 board, and shall in like manner
lonvi y him back to the Health-Officl, after lie has
concluded I.ls off, .1 examination ; y\nd while he
it milting such examination, or in cafe any fubfe
qne It cxamyiation by the Healch Officer or Con
fult»i:g Physician, agreeably to the direflions of
thi aiS, the mailer or cajjtain lhallexpole or caule
to be exposed to thefearch of the Resident Phyfi
ciin,6r of the Health Officer and Confuiting Physi
cian (as the cafe may be) each ane!every part of the
fti). or vclTel, and shall present tt hi, view each
and every person cr perfors on boajd thereof", and
and shall alio true and fatisfa&ory answers make
to all such queflions as the Resident I'hyCf ian, ic.
at the time of examination shall alk relative to the
healthcJ" any portor place fr«m which the Clip or
ve feel failed, or has since touched at—i.e number
of perlon* on when the ship or v»he.l entered
on her voyage —the number of perforn that have
ftlice -been landed or taken o;i beard,\and when
and wbererefpeHivtly—what persons on board—
s they have been during the voyage, or Kiall, at
the time of e;;annnation, be infeiled with aky pefi
tilential or contagious difeaf'e—and what is tl.t pre
sent {late and condition of the .parlous on board
with refpedf to their health or diseases. AntV if
any mailer cr captain shall rcfufe to expose as afotv
aid, to the search of any of the officers
n if h'f (ha:l conceal afly ftckperfou 3 or in any otlrer man*
n'r dcceivs the proper officers aforefaid in lis
uch captain or mailer, for every such ofi'ence, shall
forfeit and pay the futti of vitz upnekeo doi.-
LAtS.
Skct. 8. An ! if itßjr rerfon or persons whetfo
ever (the Resident T'hyficmn, &c. excepted) shaH
jo on board ;',tiy ve.Tel, befare 'the uiiir thereof
has received n certificate of health in the jrnanm-r
direiled, every person so ofFindinj, fiisll jjay ttw
Um of ONE HiJ-NOItCC DOLLARS
IT beir < r nl.folu-rely necefTary tbat the foregoing
fciHcfl.-i fhuuld be punolualiy complied wit -, rkot
fubl'criber, in with his duty, nuift c.v
---dC-X :1 rig-oi oui observance of the fame, or tlife be
under thi necehity of putting thc-h.vvs in force.
- «. AIA T.N, Offiar if tit
' l'i.f I'' tr if.: ddblSta.
I*''x u-
[VCLL'MK XIInir-VT»ni>»«»in Mill <m »un
i'l.'V FO3. THE-POOH AFiUrANS,
bMer things apbrovts ;
My h ivorfe in si loves.
T OWN 1 tan d*oiVd at this traffic in Slaves,
.And fcur tbo<e who ISv the m and fell them are
k raves.
V hat cf their harii.\f9, their tortures, and
groan*,
Ualn-.oU enough to draw pity from stones.
1 j them preatly, but !
I'or how cculci I do witlout fngar et /um ?
Especially ivgar, lo necd'ul we fee ;
give up our dsflerts, cur coffee and tea ?
Befiries if we do, the Fre»<h, Dutch, and J>ines ;
Will heartily thank us no doubt for our pains.
If not ]buy the poor creatures, tb*y ivil'.
And torture* and groans wi 1 be Hill.
U forjigpers like wife would gire the tiade,
Much m»re in b half of your wish mightbe fuid.
But whUf. thty g»;£ riches by purthafing hjacks,
Pray tell me why winay not ulfogo Tnachs.
Your fcruplea and arguments to my mini,
A ft or y to pat, you may think it was coin'd
On to answer you out of my miflt,
'Bui I can aflurs you I saw it in print.
A yo.ungtlW at school more sedate thin the reft,
Had once his integrity put to the test ;
His comrades had plotted an orchprdsto rob,
-rVud aflr'd him to go and sftilk in the job.
He.wasfiicck'd fir,like you, and anfwer'd," Oh no !
Whc ro'j our good neighbor ! I pray you don't go.
B~ndes the man'* poor and the orchard's his bread ;
Then thitfk oil his children, for they must be fed "
" You talk very fine, and you look very grave v
But apidfs we want, aftd apples we'll have :
If you will eo with us, we'll give you a {hare,
If not,, you ihall have neither nor pear."
They eeasM andToM ponder'd, "1 fee they will go,
£oor man what a pity to injure him so !
Pcor ni3n ! 1 would fpve hirri his fruit if I could,
Put (laying behind them will do him no good.
If the matter depended alone upon inc,
His apples might hapgtHl tree.
Put since they will have them, I think I'll go too,
He'll lefe none by me, altho' 1 get a few."
Hisfcruples thus filerc'd, Tom felt.rr.ore at ease,
And went with his comrades his apples to seize.
Fie M-mM and protested, but join'd iu the plan ;
t II" fhir'd in the plunder but pitied the man.
POST-OFFICE.
Philadelphia, Skpt. 29, 1797.
lor theßritiOj Packet,for Falmouth,
will be received at this Office, until Tucfday, the
jhird of -O&ober, at twelve o'clock, noon. The
mland New-York mu& be paid. dtsd
From Marfeilltes.
THE CARGO
Of the Swtdifh barque Guftavus Adolphus,from
Marfetiies, co.-.fifting of the following articles,
19 discharging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and fsr
sale by the fubfc ibers
BRANDY, well flavored, of i, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hogsheads
Ditto, in cases
Front-giuc Wine, in cafe* ef 30 bottles
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in baflcets of 6
and il kottles ..v
Capers
Olivrn '
Almonds
Dry VerHigreafe
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) of aB, 30 and 31 inehef
Tafibties
I.ong and (hort white KiJ Gloves Women
Silk Stockings
Har.dkerchtfs, in imitation of Madrafs
Artificial Flrwers and Garlands
Oflrich Feathers
Ribbons
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder a/.d Pomatum
Manna in forts
Cream Tartar.» t ,
BENIAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT
September 17. eotf
Bank of North America,
September Bth, 1797.
OS Monday next the Notices for all Notes or
Bills payable at thisEnnk.which fall due en that
a;id the ensuing 6 days, will be i'erved on tKe Pay
ers: And like Notices on every Monday, till
tlife further ordcasof the Direilors.—Perfons wi(h
ing to deposit Nates or Uills for Collection, which
arc to fall due within the week, must themselves
undertake to give notice to the Payors. dtf
The Inhabitants of the Diftridt
of Southwark,
A RF. informed that 3 Coacheeis provided, to be
£\ kept at the Qonftables'office, the north east
corner of Front asd Almond streets, where the
friends of those sick pfrfons <V-ho desire to be re
moved to the City Holp'ital, arc requested to make
application—Also, a Hcarfe will be kept in readi
,iel» for the removal of the dead.
JONATHAN PENAOSK.
N. B.—The Poor, who wifli to remove to the
Tents on Schuylkill, may be furnifced with orders
by applying as above. Au? 29
At a Meeting of the Board of
Property, June 6, 1797,
Prefcnt John Hall, Sea'ry.
Francis John It on, R. G. > oflandofiice
Dan. Brodhead, S. G-j
Nicholas Bettinger, \
Versus r
Samuel Cunningham.)
In this cafe the proof of service of notice be
ing insufficient", It isordered that notice be giv
en in one\of the Philadelphia and York newspa
pers weekly, for it least eight weeks to the
heirs or assignees of Samuel Cunningham de
ceaftd, to as.tend the hoard on the firft Monday
in November next, to shew caut'e why a patent
should n»t iiliie to Nicholas Bettinger for the
}and in question.
(A true Copy.)'
JOHN HALL,
Secretary of the-Land Office.
Auy. 15. *iawßw.
This Day is Published,
BY Mess. Dobftn, Csrev, Cjrnpbeil, «ic Cl and the
otlie/BookfeHers,
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cenis.
FJfitnt'y printed on fVovr paper, and Hot
* * prejed.
By John Thompson,
si COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The Constitutions
Of the several States with each other, and with
that of the United State*: exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent features of caeh Confutation, and
elaffirgtogether their 110 ft important provisions,
under "the fev;ra! heads cf administration ; with
Votes and Observations.
By WILLIAM SMITH,
Of South Carolina, -
L L. D. and member of the Congress of the
United State*.
Dedicated to 'tha people of the UnitedStatcs.
N B. A few Copi w s an inferior pa
per, at 3-4ths of a dollar.
February 6 mwt
P HILAD EL P HIA ,
FRIDAY EVENING, Sfptfmbfr a 9.
The following filly fabrication has been
copied from some Jacobin print 6f England :
an American has tacked to it " State
of France," and it is now circulating with
great industry, all over the country.
" V Slate of France.
Extraft of a letter from a young nobleman
now in Lisle.
have remained in a (late of aftonifhmer.t
ever since my arrival in this country. Oh !
what a number of fibs our ministers have
told : They said a country could not live
happy under French principles. On land
ing at Calais I expefted to fee the fields
burnt up and barren ; but what was my
surprise to fee them covered with the fineft
verdure, and bearing the richest crops. The
country between this and Lisle resembles a
garden. From what M. Wndham told me
I thought the people would all be .clothed
in rags, and ornamented with blooay dag- |
gers : that they would have famine, diftrult, '
and wretchedness in their looks : instead of |
this, they are a more open, merry set than our '
own countrymen ; they have no dread of
Botany Bay for opening their mouths, nor
a baftile for making a wry face ; neither do
they fear spies and informers ; and they are
much better clad ana fed than they were
formerly. After what I have heard in >
England, I can scarcely believe I am in
France. We have here delicious wines and !
sumptuous dinners ; the women are beauti
ful, engaging and elegant, and the men are
polite and obliging. The fun fliines in Lisle
the fame as it* London, and the people
walk upon two legs, tbnugh the former it l
inhabited by republicans. The birds sing ;
and waters flow, jpft as if the people lived in
a state -of civil society ; and the day light
as regularly makes its appearance as if they
were governed by a king.
From the (N. T.) Minerva.
We have presented to our readers the ob
fcrvations of Paftoret, in the council of five
hundred, relative to the conduit of the di
redory towards the United States. We
have in our pofleflion an answer to those ob
servations, entitled, the " American govern
ment unveiled," which, in every refpeft,
equals the Billingsgate of the Aurora and
Porcupine's Gazette.
After some general remarks on attempts
of Segur and Paftoret, to overthrow the con
stitution, the writer fays, " At the time
when France constituted itfelf into a repub
lic, the pretended allies of Paftoret detached
themselves from us, not by a declaration of
war, which would have beceme a frank and
loyal nation, but by all those obfeure and
indelicate manoeuvres, which mart the weak
ness of a perfidious government
This is laying we ought to have gone to
war at once—attempts to steer clear of the
war and preserve neutrality, are called per-
The writer takes for his proofs, the sub
stance of the complaints of Mr. Genet, as
they stand in his letter to Mr. Jefferfon, of
Sept. 18, 1793 — v ' z - 'he president's re
ceiving the visits of Noailles and Talon, his
fuffering medallions of Capet and his fantily
to hang in hii room, his conduct relative to
arming in our ports, prizes, Ac. and that
Wafington* had delayed to call congress
together, notwithstanding Mr. Genet's " re
fpe&ful infinuationg."
The writer speaks of Washington's being
surrounded with " men of Englandhe
speaks of the " patriciate," or senate, as
being a " conspiracy against the American
people he speaks of Mr. Monroe's being
sent " plenipotentiary" to Paris " without
powers," ds ap a& of Machiavelifm, to de
ceive the French, by his warm repuhlican
ifm, and fending Mr. Jay to London, to
make a treaty deftruftive of the French trea
ties. lie calls Mr. Jay the " Dumolard of
the United States, (that is, a tory,') Warmly
attached to monarchy, to a peerage, and to
George the III."
The writer suggests that the executive of
America has been guided by British agent*,
leagued with all traitors, refugee colonists
and emigrants, in a fhameful manner—with
a view to overturn the republic.
I This nonsense has been repeated in Ameri
ca, and re-echoed by the French Jacobins,
till it is perfe&ly stale—it ceases even to ex
cite Cefentment. But what the writer fays
of the designs of the French government, if
true, deserves more serious confederation.
He suggests that the French republic,
struggling against two and twenty armed
at once, has, hitherto, diflembled her deep
resentment against the IJjiited States. But
now she has cut off almost all the heads of
the menacing hydra, and finee that of Eng
land only remains to be taken off, « it is the
part of her grandeur, as well as of her juflice,
to manifejl to the United States all her fenfilnli
ty." Tbe direftory, he fays, have " Knio
their brows like Jupiter, but have not hurl
ed the thunder—Nestor has fpeken, but
Achilles has remained ilfrhis tent."
What then must we poor devils do,
when Jupiter launches his thunder-bolts at
us, and Achilles marches forth, armed with
terror !
The following paragraph is given liter
ally :
" In a state of war so violent as that
which the French republic has sustained
against the most powerful kings of Europe,
it is indubitable that neutral nations were not
lier friends, and that her friends who covered
themselves with a fhameful neutrality, have
been and are her enemia."
This is the speaking but, what French
agents and their advocates have often hinted
to us before.
The writer then examines the question of
* So this word is spelt in this Griib-ftreet
produdlion.
v.-as with the United States. Re fays, mer- :
chants who ttade with the republic or again ft !
her, under the American Bjtfr counter revo- ;
lutioniils whs have placed their money in the
banks of the United Stages, &c. raise an
outcry about the dagger of war with the
United States. Having withdrawn their
capitals from France, and placed them in
America, they .feara rupture —which might
expose them to a fcqueftmtion of their pro
perty. The fame cry, he fays, Was raised
by those who had money 1 in the bank of
Venifcvc, in Geneva, and in the caverns of
Switzerland. He hints very plainly that
the French government ought not to fuffer
such friends to escape, when it is driven to
every expedient to raise money. j.
He goes on to examine the means of at- :
tack and defenfe, possessed by the United
States. We have not time at present to
notice his nbfervatious oiv these points and
some others—but he has one remark, that
we shall give entire. It is this :—" that
when the present powers make peace, t!fcn
is the time to chastise governments which
are weak, crafty and faithlefs."
The meaning of this, we leave to the rea
der's conjecltires.
From the NEW-YORK GAZETTE, &c.
Our Jacobin Prints appear to be inflrong
convulfions,from a fear that the Legislative
Body of the government of Prance with the
great body of the people on their fide, should get
the better of the Direßory and th: Army, in their
frefentjlruggle forfuperiority. No man need
•with a forcible reason to convince him of the
views of the facthins among us—of their at
tachment to infamy, and even despotism itfelf
(provided it French)than their declared wtfh
that the Executive power, means of an army *
paid by them, at the expence of poverty and
misery, might triumph over the People and their |
true Representative —'■This awfulcontejl is to
\ deter mint whether bleeding, injured humanity,
\ shall be fuffered again to tajle the fwetts of tran- \
quility.
reign of Terrtr ivi/l again commence ; and the
persons and property of the whole French Na- I
tion be at the mercy of a horde of merciless fel- \
lows, who will mate the poor unhappy people
of France the unwilling tnjlruments •in their *
hands, of extending throughout Europe (and no
doubt America) thefyftem of pluuder, robbery,
&c.—On the contrary, should the two Coun
cils fuiceed in their conjlitutional demand 6f
Reasons for the arbitrary, unju/l and unconjli
tutional conduß of the Direßory, all honest, hu
mane, fenjible men will have reason to felicit
ate each other on the return if Peace with all
its attendant blefpngs. \
The fate of America with refpeß to Peace or
IVar, evidently depends on the iffite of the dif
pHte between the Executive and LegiHative
branches of the government of France, the for
mer of which, that they may perpetuate their
power, are furious advocates for genera! war,
rapine and plunder—and the latter, loving ju-
Jlicc, are friend of peace, virtue, and humanity.
Test my fellow Citizens, we have monflers
among us, (I mean our jacobins, Antifedera
lijls, Anarchifls) —who, with patricidal,diabo
lical feelings, would wijh to fee the Direßory
triumph over the two Councils of France, in
hopes that French piracy and robbery may con
tinue againjl their defencelefs countrymen.
What Patriotic American, whether born or
adopted , but mujl bluth with indignation on
'reading the following words talen from the
Aurora, and reprinted here in a paper called
the ' time-piece •
"Our Fedcralifls have halloo'd before they
" were tut of the wood. A change of fllini/fcrs
" in France they expeßed would do every thing
" for them ; but to. use another coarse adage,
" they willfind that it is ' out of the frying
pan into the Jire."
That is, the wokTHT patriots hope that
the depredationt functioned by the Direßory
againjl the United States of America, will not
only continue, but increase. Horrid Patricides !,
How much longer will you DARE TO
BRAVE PUBLIC VENGEANCE.
ARISING FROM PUBLIC MISERI ?
I hope the indignant eyt of pure undef.led patri
otism will scowl you and your partisans into
deserved contempt and infamy ; and let all those
who caress, or even foffer you to fpeai to them
in afamiliarflyle,fhare the fame fate.
From the Virginia Gazette.
(prophetic.)
THE VIRGINIA CHRONICLE,
Sendigreeting, to all the republican church
and people, from sea to sea, and .from the ri
vers to the md* of the earth, to let them
know'by November the third, in one thousand
seven hundred aud ninety eight, that all the
fotts and daughters of Belial and all th^par
tial rulers that knows not God and obeys
not his word, will be drove out from among
the children of men, exiled fr«m among the
republican church and people, and their
dwelling will be with the beasts of the field,
and they will eat straw with the oxen till
their heads is wet with the drops of the
night,' their hair will grow a3 the
feathers, and their nails as birds claws, till
seven years pass over their heads, they will
all acknowledge that God ought to be hon
ored by all the human race, he will pull
down and build up at hie pleasure, and they
will return and bow to the very foals of
their feet, the rupublican elders, and as they
sow they will not reap, for the grain will
rot binder the clods of the valley, the daugh
ters of Belial their wombs will be all barren,
and their p«ps will never give fuck, to raise
"a rebellious race, they will go from door to
door to beg their bread, they will end their
days in pain, shame, and disgrace, and when
they dre they will fall in the gulph where
the rich glutton and all the apostatized race
is gone before, to be their companions where
there is no eye to pity nor hand tp save,
whilst the republican church and people
shine with brilliant light, like the Jafperand
Sardine stone over the earth, they will all
love God and one another ; this Chronicle is
to go on fv/ift beasts, their hoofs to be like
flint, sver our asylum, and in fwift fliips
from sea to sea, and from the rivers to the
I end* of the earth. The firft addition to the
Virginia Chronicle,-1 recommeed to all cor
rupt m>n and women to faft from evil and
learn to do well ; bow to equal Justice and j
liberty upon land ahd sea, and leave the great
event in the hand of a merciful God, to fee
whether he will remove the fore judgment
of corrupt men and Women—Recommend .
to all the Buckskin patriots to make as ma
ny additions to the Virginia Chronicle, as
they please, for the good of the planatory
globe. —I add no more.
JOSEPH S. PRICE.
Hi/ltry of a lig Mill,' and of a Miller that
would not grind without water.
Once upon a time a good natured fort
of a man, in passing through a diftrid of
•the country, observed fever.l dreams of
water, which though individually small,
were nevertheless briflc and lively. But,
in the whole diftriet, he could not hear of
a single mill for the conveniency of the in
habitants in manufacturing their grain. He
pitied the poor fouls when he saw them
every day pounding their corn, and break- !
ing it with much labor in a mortar, whereby
they majie put to procure a sorry fort of
bread, hardly fit for a dog to eat. He
determined therefore, in his own mind, to
build a mill for their accommodation. j
With much labor, expense and difficulty,
he effefted a junftion of a conf'derable j
number of these small streams, that by i
flowing unitedly into his pond, should raise
a fufficient head of water"to carry on busi
ness. He next ercfted his mill-dam, and
when the whole was completed, advertised
that he was ready to grind for the neigh
bourhqod. Now the mill soon went mer
rily round, and every one saw the advan
tage of carrying his grift theie. To en
-1 courage them, the man of the mill took
but very small toll, so in faft as hardly to
lupport"* the expenses of the manufa&ure.
After some time grinding, he began _ to
perceive that the mill took more water to
niaks her go round than came into the pond
! from the several sluices ; however, he went j
1 pn with his work till the pond was become j
! so low that the mill-wheel fairly flopped of j
I itfelf, and thte whole internal machinery at I
tlj*« fame time became motionless. He I
■therefore (hut down the gate to let the wa- i
ter rife again and fill the pond. Now be- !
gan grumbling. The neighbourhood were
vexed with the man and his mill for its (top
ping, and accused him of being an unfteadv
fort of a devilish fellow, inasmuch as he did
not keep the mill steadily going round,
without fnterruption. Gentlemen, said he,
make the streams that come in equal to the
stream that goes out, and the mill (hall
grind without ceasing, I'll warrant you.
If you cannot or will not do that, yon
must e'en wait till the water rises again !
NEWARK, September 27.
COMMUNICATION.
On Friday the 15th inft. was held an ex
amination at the academy in this town, when
the trustees and several gentlemen of litera
ture attended—the students of the Latin and
Greek languages did honor to themfdves
and their tutor Mr. Findley, in the profici
ency which they made since the lad examina
tion ; the trustees were gratified to fee a
laudable emulation prevail among the stu
dents: in encouraging which, Mr. Findley
poffefTes a very happy talent.
The students of the French language,
likewise, afforded a pleasing specimen of pro
ficiency in the pronunciation and grammati
cal knowledge of that polite language, and
did great credit to their inftrudtor Mr.
Proal.
And in a few succeeding days the exami
nation of the Englifli school, taught by Mr.
Dodd, gave fatisfn&iou to the gentlemen
who were present.
It is remarked, with pleasure, that this
institution increafe3 in its refpeitability, and
must be considered a real blessing to the com
munity and a fruitful nursery of the arts
and sciences.
BERMUDA, Augult 12.
Capt. Drake, of the fch'r Thetis, which
arrived this week from Jamaica, informs us
that on his departure from Jamaica, a ship
arrived from England, after a short passage,
which brought accounts of his .majesty's fri
gate Popione, Sir John Borlafe Warren,
commander, having been rose upon by the
crew; that they confined all the officers be
low, and fleered their course for Brest, but
as flie got near the harbour's mouthj she
was cut oft by two English frigates, retaken
and sent immediately for England.
We are also informed, from the fame
quarter, that one of his majesty's armed
fch'rs was run away with by the crew, late
ly, and carried over to the French into the
Bite of Leogane. That on her arrival there
the French put the crew into prison, and
sent word to the British commander at P.
au Prince to fend for them, as they should
all be given up, but that the vessel would
be retained. The above disappointments will
no doubt have a good effedt navy, and
convince the seamen of the bad effects of
their treachery.
Thursday was launched from Mr. Nathan
iel Tynes'Yard, his majesty's sloop of war
the Driver. She is a vefi'el built on a faft
failing plan, and bids fair to assist in scour
ing the American coast of French privateers.
.She is to join Adm. Vandeput's squadron,
as soon as fitted, and will carry 16 twenty
four pounders, carronades.
August 19.
Tucfday arrived hi 3 majesty's sloop of war
Hunter, capt. Tucker, from Halifax, in
which came pafiengers capt. -Seater, (ap
pointed to the command of the Driver sloop
of war) some other officers and 65 seamen.
The Weft-India fleet, con filling of about
100 fail, left Martinique the fijth July, and
Tortola the ill of August, undi* convoy of
one ship of 74 gur.s, 2 frigates, of war
&c. The Bermuda and American vessel a
1 took the advantage of the convoy, and left
' the fleet about 10 days ago.
His Excellency Gov. de Lancy, failed
> ftx>m Barbftdoej 6f the 10th 6f July, for his
' government of Tobago, and eml-srkfd un
der falutri frotn Charles fort.
• ' ' Foreign li.nlH^ncc.
PARIS, June iS.
It is generally fuppofedthat the overtures
of peace with Great-Britain will procure to
Sir Sydney Smith, if -not his liberty, at
Ifall fotae alleviation of ..his hard captivity.
He continues in close Confinement in the
fame tower which was occupied by Lous
XVI.
In the cotirfe of the lad audience which
the Po'rtugufe ambaiTador had of Charle#
Lacroix,,the latter gave a proof of igno
rance, rather uncommon even at this time.
After having threatened the ambaflador
with a declaration of war, and with fending
an army again ft Portugal, and finding that
these threats made but a very flight impres
sion on hrtri. he at last said in the utmost
I ra ge—" We _ will fend our fleets againlt
I you."—" What fleet ?" replied the ambafla
. dor. " That of Talilon"—" Tor what
. purpose To block up nU your ports on
the Mediterranean." The ambassador, hav
ing (hrewdly observed, that on discussing
i fubje&s of this nature, it appeared to him
extremely proper to consult a map, the
I miniftcrfent for one, and found, to his ut
] mod confufion, that Portugal pofleffed no*
part whatever in the Mediterranean.
According to letters from Nimeghn, a
part of the army of the North lately arrived
in Dutch Gaelders, is now marching to the
Texel. It is reported, that a considerable
( body of troqps is to be embarked there for
the purpofe%f invading England,
j June 19.
j The Italians are now trulv deserving of
j lioerty. The clubs are organized in Italy,
: exactly as they were in France under the
i blefled reign of terror. They have .their
Jacobins, their Cordeliers, nay, their frater
nal societies. In the opinion of those gen
try, it is absolutely necessary that Italy
ftiould form a republic, grand and fpler.did,
| one and indivifible,and their tribunes resound
: daily with declamations against the crowned
I tyrants.
| With a few guillotines the happiness of
Italy would be complete ; aud we under
stand that the brotherhood have already or
dered a certain number of the ingenious ma
chines, which are so wonderfully calculated
to serve the triumph of principles.
A letter from Italy advises, that it i> un
der confideratiou to effeft a descent on Por
tugal. Gen. Augerau's division is said to
have marched to for no other pur
pose than to be embarked at Leghorn and
Genoa, and to proceed from thesce to Bar
celona.
The navigation of Lake Lugano, which
.j the Swiss have already contested both with
the and Lombardians, appears like
ly to brujg on a rupture between the Can
tons and the French Republic. ' The for
mer, terrified by the fate of Venice and Ge
noa, have already sent several deputtaions to
General Buonaparte, and have endeavoured
I to fettle matters on friendly terms; but at'
> the fame Lime they put 'themselves in the
• molt refpt&able state of defence.
■ June 25.
1 Yesterday a man of refpe&ability said to
■ a mountaineer of the legifladvebody—" v ou
had some days ago a very strong stormy fit
ting."—V It was by no means stormy e
, Bough," replied the deputy ; the tempest
■ mult burst forth, blows mult be struck, and
■ one of the two parties mult be destroyed."
I All Jacobins hold the fame language, and
their number is daily increasing here. San
terre is returned from Belgium.
ON THE CLUBS.
1 [From L'Eelair of June 25. J
" In proportion as the government be
| comes weak, the audacity of faftion in
creases. The difcoßtented are no longer
fatisned with declaiming,, some in
' gilded halls, others in their ftnoky taverns.
They nyift have clubs to combine their
hopes and their animosities, and to double
1 by these combinations their chance of fuc
-1 cess. Already four or five clubs are reck
-1 oncd in Paris. The molt Celebrated are
1 those of Clichy, of Montmorency, and of
the Palais Royal. I place them here in
> the order of their dates, for Clichy has
engendered the conftitiitiooal circle of
Montmorenci, and Montmorenci has en
gendered the clubs of the Palais Royal.
" The firft, less dangerous in itfelf, is
composed only of deputies, for ttye moll
pan distinguished for their love of liberty,
and their hatred to every species of tyranny.
But if the past is a fuffieient pledge for the
pacific intentions of these deputies, I will
not the less venture to affirm that their club
may in time become fatal to their country.
The members of the constituent assembly,
Glezen and his colleague Lanjuinas, whose
1 virtues are not disputed, were in 1789 the
founders of the club' Breton, which after
' wards became so fatal to France under the
I title of the Jac'obiit club. Heaven gtant
that Clichy may not one day experience a
metamorphosis no less terrible ! But mean
• while its exiftcnce is still an (evil, since it i*
" to it, that Ave are indebted for the formation
of the club of Montmorenci. O ! depu
- 'ties, do not repose upon the purity of your
• intentions ! Let the past open your eyes to
> the future, and 111 di (Solving yourselves, fur
r nifti an additional proof of your, wisdom
and moderation ! The two other alTemblics
are more alarming to public tranquillity.
r In both there are lome men truly deserving
1 of esteem, refpe&able citizens, but they
■ are not unmixed. I will affirm even that
> they are not a majority.
' '• Sunt bora mixta malis fcdfunt mal» plura."
t " At Montmorenci are a gre« number
1 of conventionalifla, excluded by lot, who
f still ligh for the power they have loft, and
r j who would not be grieved to recover it by
i expelling, under the favour of some great
t ' convulsion, the fucceflors whom the will
|of the people has appointed. It contains
1 likevvife lome men too long celebrated by
$ our misfortunes, and by their OWII crimes.
- j There they listen with a kind of religion*
I ufps6 to that myfUritfus pcrioßUgej who,rfent to fperk in the tribune, never itr/us
to make hid appearance in it, and who, like H
the ancient Sybils, will issue h's orr.clct only
frorfi Subterraneous caverns far from the
view of prophage morßils. But it is said,
what a glorious fjciirity has the nation, in
the patriotism and integrity of some young
people, against the projects of these men,
eipecinlly the individual to whom we have
alluded ! TbonghtleSs men : recalled the
fate of the Girondists, whom you regret.
RtcollcA that behind them Dar.ton, Ro-
Kfpierre, and tAie commune lurked ; recol-
Lft tlie toe fin of-the 16th of August at
> once founded their death; and that of Louis
XVI.
" The club of the Palais Royal is com
posed of those young bucks, the ancient !
, loungers in the' Cafe de Chartres, and who
did Such good service after the 9th Thermi
dor, in (hutting the den of the Jacobins,
andin hunting them down on the memora
ble days-os Germinal and Prairial. Hatred
of the Jacobins is their prevailing sentiment,
and so far perfectly well; but a great num
ber of them profefs an equal hatred for our
constitutional inftitiitions, and here at once
begins their injustice and the danger of their
£ub."
In the fitting of the 24th inft. Vofe made
3 report on the petitions of Lonifa Maria
Adelaide Penthievre, the widow of the
duke of Orleans ; and of Louis Francois
Joseph Bourbon Conti. After enumerating
all the laws relative to the Bouibon family,
he spoke of the wretched situation of the
two petitioners, and of their fubmiflion to
the laws of the republic during the revolu
tion ; and concluded by moving, " that
the sequestration should be taken of£ from
their effe£Vs ; that the free dispositions of
them and the rights of citizenship should
be granted to the petitioners." This mo
tion was alnnoft unanimoully adopted.
BREMEN, July 6.
At the celebration of the anniversary of
the American Independence in this city, on
the 4th inft. a large company of the most
refpe£hble citizens, and the American mas
ters then present, partook of an elegant en
tertainment, provided at Dr. Steve's hotel,
Frederick J. Wichelhaufen, the American
Consul, President, at which time the Ame
rican"and Bremen flags were delayed in u
nion, after dinner the following TOASTS
were drank.
1. The Day—May the memory thereof
be always invariably dear, to every virtuous
citizen.
2. John Prefident of the United
States of America—may he always continue
the unshaken friend of his country.
George Washington—the early, the
uniform, the steady and un/haken friend of
. his country, long may he live, always be
an example to magistrates, and a blefiing to
his country.
4. Thomas Jefferfori. Vice President of
the United States of Amctica —may his in
tegrity and patriotism command the esteem
and refpeft of all his fellow-citizens, and the
name of Jefferfon do honor to America.
5. The Constitution of the United States
of America—may it flourifh to the latest
posterity.
6. The Republic of Bremen—may suc
cess, peace, neutrality, liberty and profpe
ritv, always crown her commerce and navi
gation.
7. The trne friends, allies and sister Re
publics of the United States of America and
Bremen—may fuccefe, unity, liberty and
prosperity crown all their affairs.
8. The brave American patriots of '76 —
May their posterity always possess their cou
rage and firmnefs in opposing the nfurpation
of tyrants.
9. The brave American heroes yet living
who combated with success in all cases,
thecaufe cfjiberty.
to. The memory of the gallant veterans,
who have fallen in defence of liberty, in the
old and new world.
11. The Congress of the United States
of America—may the happiest results be de
rived to the conntry from thet wisdom of
their deliberation.
12. The people of the United States, and
the glorious fabrick of freedom which they
have erefted in their own governmeut.
13. The fair daughters of America and
Bremen—may they always be protected and
embraced b.y the arms of freemen.
14. The of
its form and Spirit be the invariable guide of
all who administer, may its authority never
be prostituted for the purposes of party, nor
its departments illegallyblended for the pur
poses of intrigue.
15. The flag of the United States—may
the Stars and stripes wave refpe&edthrough
out the Globe.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, Sept. 28
Yesterday the Chevalier D'Yrujo return
ed to this city from his tour to the East
ern States.
We are happy to learn that the Chevalier
W23 received with the utmost refpeft, and
treated with every politeness and hospitality
by all ranks ofpeople at Bofton,Portfmouth,
and at every town he visited. \_Argus.~\
A correspondent, who has just returned
from the country, was surprised to hear the
cliSmal ftorieß told and generally believed of
the dreadful ravages made by the Yellow Fe
ver in the city of New-York. He finds with
extreme pleafur'e that the city, owing to the
ftri&nefs of the police in keeping the streets
and yards clean, was never more healthy than
it is at present. It is sincerely to be wished,
that every person going into the country will
feclhimfelf under a sacred and ittflifpenfahle
obligation to invalidate the belief of the
country people with refpeft even to the ex
iltence of the Yellow Fever at all in this ci
ty ; in order to remove so powerful an objec
tion to their coning to towr; with' their pro
duce, ajid to thtir Supplying thcmfelves with
the itfual articles Mt this fi.ifos of the year.
—God knows bufnefsi of! every kind feels
| Sufficiently the deporable effects of real evils,
from the depredation of our dear allies, with
out cruelly inventing imaginary ones to fill
lip the measure of public mifcry.
A number of able writers appear, in
.the southern papers, to be advocating the
catife of our government. One of these un
der the signature of Americanus, who appears
in a Richmond paper, has very ably develo
ped the causes of the differences between
United States and France. He has entered
; fully into an examination of Mr. Jefferfon's
I conduft" which he considers as extremely
j injurous to our public interests. He ascribes
! the hostile affV'ft of the French government
towards tha United States, wholly to the in
fluence of a party, of which Mr. Tefferfon
is a leader—in this idea he is unquestionably
well founded. The arguments of the French
government, in support of their measures,
are evidently borrowed from the oppofers of
ovir government in America—Our own citi
zens, who assume the exclusive »t erit of be
ing '« patriots" and republicans" have fup
pliedthe French with the weapons by which
our government lYaffailed, our trade annoy
ed, and our country menaced with war.
The bold efforts of our citizens in the
southern states, to enlighten their country
men on their political interests, among which
we notice the writings ,of Americanus and
of Mr. Harper, as prominent instances, will
be followed by very salutary effe£ts. Thefs
efforts ought to have been made earlier, as
they were in the northern states. But late
as they are,' they will be ufeful in preparing
the public mind, either for peace or war.—
The two points to be aimed at in all our
political disquisitions, are, to promote Union
and a sentiment of Americanifm —a sentiment
that fpringa up in the heart a *'] is cherished
and matured by the underflanding—a senti
ment that loves public justice, and invites
the refpeft of all nations—hut disdains to re
ceive fetters from any; whether presented
by armed foldicrs, under royal authority;
or by fawning hypocritical vepublicans, un
der pretext of friendjhip and alliance.
[ Minerva.
SALEM, (Mass.) Sept. 22'.
FROM INDIA.
Extraft of a letter, dated Trapquehar, (Co
romandel coast,) April 31, 1797, receiv
ed here.
" The famous Modefte privateer is at last :
taken : the faft failing frignte Fox, caught ■
her, after a chafe of eight hours, when the
Modefte carried away her sore-top-mast, else
(he would have escaped. She had before
made a fuccefsful cruize against the English,
ifnd sent several of their valuable country (hips
to the Isle of France. Tt is reckoned that
this privateer alone has captured property j
from the English in their seas to the value
of above a million of dollars, and near as
much more from the Dutch, Portuguese
and Spaniards, at the firft of the war. But
all English India speaks much in praise of;
the conduft of the captain and officers
of the Privateer Modefte ; as upon all
/oecafions they restored private property,
trunks, clothes, &c. and set all her prison
ers ashore on their own coast. Their unex
ampled conduft to the ladies and gentlemen
of the Triton English Tndiamen, last year,
stands high in the lift of noble a&ions.
" The.English fleet of Indiamen, with a
convoy, failed two days ago from Madras,
, bouud home."
WASHINGTON (Penn.) Sept. 19.
Commissioners on the part of the_United
States are about holding a treaty with the
Six Nations, at Big Tree, on the Genefee
river. The objeft is to obtain a relinquifh
mcnt of the Indian title to land in the Maffa
chufetls preemption, the property of Robert
Morris and others.
Robert Odlin and Alexander Crawford,
apprehended at Lancaster in June last, for
pafiing counterfeit dollars, have received
sentence, one to fuffer twelve, the otherJix
teen years imprisonment to hard labor.
To the editor of the fVeflern Telegraphe.
S!R,
IN the latter part of the mnftth of July
I was in the Upper and Lower Sandufky,
where I saw the' following prisoners, viz.
In Lower Sandufky I saw a boy, about 16
years of age, of the name of Hampton North
np. He was taken out of the cornfields
above the mouth of Big Kenhaway, upon
the Ohio, and is now with the Wyndot na
tion :—The family he lives withf of th»
Hedge-Hog tribe, was about to move to a
Wyndot town, five miles above the Upper
Sandufky, where the said boy may be had
at any time. He can talk but little Eng
lish, and it was with much difficulty I got to
know his name and where he was taken.—
Should this boy have any friends, it is my
advice to them to go after him as soon as
poflible, for should he' flay there a few years
it will be impoflible to prevail on him to
leave the Indians.
At Upper Sandufky I saw a young man
of the name of Armflrong, who told me he
had been taken from near Pittsburgh, and,
as well as I can recolleft, he tol4 me he had
been with the Indians five years ; he speaks
very gftod English. "After considerable con
siderable conversation with him, I told him
I would try to find out his people and let
them know he was alive ; at this he appeared
1 not to be well pleased ; I asked him feverul
questions afterwards, but he would talk no"-
" thing but Indian ; when I came away, I ask
• ed him if he had any word to fend to his
people ; he answered no, in a very surly man
ner.
It grieved me to fee him so much of a
savage ; he is a handsome young man and
, of a beautiful countenance, about 5 feet 8
inches high, and remarkably aftive.
JOHN CRAWFORD.
September 1 10, 1797. •
[The world is not in want of new evidence
• (since the French revolution) to prove that
the transition from civilization, to savage
brutality, is more easy and more rapid, than
1 has generally been imagined.]
.PITTSBURGH,
A ftw days ago, a white mart by the
name of Cierfc, \vas killed by an Indian
on Beaver Creek. The circumstances, as
far as we can colleft, are —That he was
going into the country with two Indians
who were drunk, and it is supposed a quar
rel mud have taken place, as Clerk was
found dead under a tree with a knife (lick
ing in his fide, known to belong f 0 one of
the Indians. The Indians havs been taken
and are now confined in the gaol of this
town.
Extradl of a 'etter received by the com
manding officer ps fort Fayette, from £
the comm?ndant at Prefqu'ifle, dated I
the 18th in 11. j
" Lafl evening ensign Callender arrived
here with difpatclies fiom the commander
in chief. It appears that the inhabitants
at the "Natchez are in open rebellion, and j
have displayed the French colours—a de--
tacfynent from the army are now on their
way to that quarter. A small plundering
party of Indians have endeavoured to make
themselves matters of fort Recovery ; they
were drove out of the fort with the loss of
one Indian killed and one wounded."
MAJjfcTINSBURG, September 21.
We were la(T. evening informed by a per
son immediately from Baltimore, that in
consequence of the increase of the yellow
fever in that town and at the point, the
inhabitants in general are removing into
the country. From 25 to 30 died daily
duririg thelail week.
BALTIMORE, September 27.
BOARD of HEALTH.
t BURIALS.
_ In the weft part of Baltimore, heretofore
calltd the town, for the last 24 hours, end
ing this morning at sunrise :
5 Adtilfs O Children
In the East part, called Fell's-Point, &c.
including the Potter's Fi§£d',
5 Adults 0 Children
Signed, Joseph Townsend, clerk.
September 26.
N. B. Applicationa for interment in the
Potter's Field, westward of the city,, near
Mr. Nagle's brick yard, must be made to
Peter Duleny, sexton, adjoiniugthe Method
ist burial ground.
Died, yesterday morning, after a (hort
illness, captain Cecelitis John fun, of the (hip
Louisa, 4nd brother, of Do&or Thomas
Johnson, of this city. The amiable quali
ties of this promising young man, endeared
him to all his acquaintances.
%f)t (5a sette.
PHILADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, September a 9.
Total of burials for 24 hours, ending yefler
day at noon.
Seccnd Pr«fbyterian I o
Third Presbyterian t O
St. Mary's Church » O
German Lutherean o I
t Methodists { O
Potter's Fi«ld o I
City Hospital* 100
~5 ' 2
* Five of theft from the city.
Died, on Wednesday evening, aged 19,
Miss Ruth Hulme Fenno, eldest daughter
of Mr. Samuel Frfnno.
David Thomas liaving, from the peculiar (
fituatien of his bnfinefs, discontinued his \
fte ward (hip at the Camp, Thomas Ander
fon, one of the Camp committee has gene.-
\ roufly and voluntarily undertaken that bu
siness, and will constantly reside there.
The following donations were received
for the use of the poor at the camp.
From Elias Boudinot, a v quantity of po
tatoes and vegetables. ""
Conrad Hanfe, eight bushels of potatoes.
Wilh't Smith, 58 loaves of bread.
Publiflicd by order- of the committee,
JAMES OLDDEN.
Sept. 28th.
TWO CHAR ITr SERMONS
Will be preached on Sunday next at the
Calvinift Church, Germantown, for the re
lief of the poor and dijlreffed citizens tf Phila
delphia ; one in the morning at 11 o'clock
by the Rev. Dr. Blair, the other in the
afternoon, at 4 o'clock by the Rev. Mr.
Abercrombh.
Wednesday morning, about II o'clock,
Mrs. Linker, the wife of a (hoemaker in
north Third ,street, near Callowhill street,
was fafely'delivered ps three fine girls. _
Nothing that the poor, despised bard of
the Time-Piece is capable of faying, could
possibly excite anger—nor, in the present in
stance, any notice, had not a falfehood from
his paper been transferred into the Aurora.
The author of the paragraph in which " tar
and feathers" are spoken of, (if he means to
apply this insinuation to the person mention
ed in the paragraph) is a liar and a fcoun.
drel—Nor do I find-him tlefervisg of much
better epithets who designedly gives curren
cy to a known falfehood. *
[The editors of the Aurora and Time-
Piece have it in their power (by publishing
the.above) to make fonje atonement for the
cri/ne they have been acccflary to, of propa-l
gating a lie. J —*
PRICES OF.STOCKS,
Philadelphia, Bth Sept. i 797-
6 per Cent. *6/8
I per Cant. *O/4
Deferred 6 per Cent. t.'/4
BANK United States, J8 per ct. advance.
, f'ennfylvania, »i da.
1 North America, 46 do.
tnfurance Co. N. A! (hares 45 so 5® do.
1 ' Pennsylvania, par
COURSE OS JFXCHANGE.
On t.ordon, at 3P days par
at 60 day s 65
■ 1 at go 2ayt "
Amsterdam,, per guilder «o
—j .. yo days ■ 4?
' % ' 1 1
f CITV HOSPITAL REPORT,
From th,-.2&th to 29th Sent, in therriornW.
Admitted,, since bit r?port,
Michael Kenner, 19, South Front street.
Rebecca Hubbard, Mrs. Hutchins, No. 2,
Vernon street.
Johtj Pennington, Tenth by Filbert street.
Sarah Fergufon, Vernon street, between
South and Shippen.-
William Shields, Tammany fiih lioufe over
Schuvlkill.
Maria Fiflier, CrefwelPs, Crab street.
Modeftierre (Frenchman) Elmflie's alley,
Second Street.
; Died since last report.
j. when admitted b ? w!on^c^
1 viouatoadnuiiion.
Mary Carv.-ell, 26th 3 days.
Mary Neal, 24th 3 days.
Letty Smith, 18th 1 day.
Remaining last Report 56
i Admitted since, , 7
60
Discharged None
Died " 3 3
Remain in Hospital, { ™-5j 60
Seven of whom are dangerous.
Interred in Citv Hospital burying ground
since last report :
From the city and suburbs 4
From the city hospital 3
1 Total 7
Stephen Girard,
(Signed) Caleb Lownes,
Jo*in Connelly.
Published by order of the Board,
Wm. MONTGOMERY,
■Chairman pro ttm.^
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
J 3 out of
Cleared.
Ship Charlotte, Hedges, Madeira 1
Harriott-, CloUtman, Hamburgh
Brig Polly, Backhouse, . Jamaica
Iris, Lee, Bourdeaux
Boston, September 21.
This day arrived (hip Lyon, Proftor, 30
days from Antigua. Left there but one
northern veflel, captain and veflel'# name not
remembered, supercargo, a Mr. Rotch.
September 22.
Arrived schooner Success, Homer, St.
Croix, 25 days. Left there, captain Dun
bar,"of Boston ; and a (hip from New-York,
for St. Domingo. Spoke, 10th instant, a
barque from Aux-Cays, for Portland.
September 23.
Arrived fch'r Sally, Randall, Surrinam,
35 days. Left there, (hip-Franklin, of N.
York, bound to Hamburg; (hip Liberty,
Sheldon, of Rhode-Island ; captain Brown,
in a schooner from Cape Ann ; captain Nor
ris, in a schooner from R. Island ; brig
ThreC Friends, Endicott, of Salem ; brig
Argus, from Rhode-Island ; and brrr Sally,
Hafkus, of New-London. Spoke, Sept. 2,
floop'Difpatch, Davis, of Cape Ann, who
had been taken, coming from fjurrinam, and
carried into Martinico, where he was relea
sed, and fuffered no detention : was 19 days
out for home when spoke.
> Same day, schooner Sally, Sawyer, Jere
mie, 30 days, via the Mole, 2J days. Left
no veflel* at Jererme. Sailed under convoy
with the Jamaica fleet; parted with the fleet,
r j in lat. 27, in company with the schooner
5 ' Hope, Nicholfon, of Plymouth, and the
" Orion, of Rhode-Island ; fjjoke the latter 4
' kays since. September 19, fpokc,' lat. 40,
" 30, long. 71, brig Harmony, Swift, of
Bedford, from Norfolk, for Belfatt.
' The brig Ruth, Townfend, from Bristol,
for Rhode-Island, was spoke in lat 37, 30.
The General Wayne, from th'S port for
Naples, was spoke, Aug. 21, in lat. 44,
• 20, all well.
Foreign Clearances.
Sept. 21. Fair Lady, White, Senegal
Sally, Stoddard, Liverpool
Mefmaid, Wildes, St. Domingo
: Mary, Halliburton, Lisbon
■ Hester, Delanoe, Guadaloupe
■ Gen. Warren, Rice, St Bartholo.
: —, —23. Rebecca, Nye, Havannah
Coajling Graft.
Arrivals.
Sept. 21. Harriot, Ward, Charleston
' Friendship, Gerrifh, York
' Eliza, Dagget, Norfolk
' 23. Hiram, Goodrich). Middleton
1 Caroline, Howard,. New-York
I Lucy, Oaks, Alexandria
- * To be Sold,
1 And immediate pofieffion given,
THAT elegant feat, called BLOOMSBUiAY,the
residence of the late John Cox, Esq. with a
bout jo acres of Land, fituite on the Ddawan, ex
-1 tending from the mouth oi ffaiipickcreKt, to Tren
" ton ferry. The jnarfio:i hcufe k a handsome welt
- conftrutted brick building, 50 ty 40 feet, csntain
-1 ing four room'on each floor, with excellent cellars,
and a two story brick kitchen. Among the cut
buildings are a ftcne coach hnufc and (tables, fuf
ficiem t» contain fix carriages and ten horl'es, and
" a Itone cow house, upwards of 100 feet in length.
t Th -re is also a stone farm house with corn cribs,
e w-ggen house, &c. &c. The'.vhtdeof tl epremi
_ proposed to be fold with 1 his feat, from their fitu
j aticrt-and improvements, are such asto be worthy
•he attention of any geutleman wilhing to retire
from the city. There arc silo about 25 acres ad
joining thyhovc, which wi\l be d : vided so as to
the ptu'ehaftfrs. A.io, 100 ad
joining the town lots on the east fide of the street
leai ing from Trenton to I.arhberton, which v i 1
be-Cold together ov in >■ t.-, as may best suit the pur
■, chafer, ami ijoacics of wociland, two miles from
the which will also "fee divided if re
quired. Then-i-mi <>f payment wili be made ealy,
and an indiff.utable title jjven. For fiirthrr parti
culars enqu te of Mrs. Cox. No. T44,South Foiir:h
Ureet, Pni'.leielphia, John tjtcvens, P.fq 41oboc
ken, Mathias Barton, Esq. of LaiVcafter, er the
lubl'crll er at Trenton.
MASKrLL EVVIKG.
Trenton, Sept. -J.5, 179?. .
Tcpt'. ,J9. • <W.
li-ytSrl INGTOV LOTTERY, No. 11.
List of Prices and Blanks.
124 th djy's Driving-—Sept. g.
No. n.ls No. Dotj. No..Doh. No. I} o it.
144 10 11534 23657
ioi 10 Ct r 24CU 10 640 ■
5?3 12420 870 j 0 36663 i<J
75 1 5'3 10 25416 718
•I;i9 10 IjOTi ' 630 37113
68.! ;o? 26307 10 9TJI 10
2144 618 612 36063
it 1 ) tfii 847 4*7 IS
794 756 Jo 4"o 14 jo ggip'f
8?o 14070 037 7xß
3397 10 104 333 883
/c* 10 54S ip 4x9 40059
874 908 476 484
4363 TOO 522 667
945 I<tß 10 613 9.93 id
5267 10 794 695 41145
302 16 17:95' 97} 612
610 490 JO 28899 934
765 10 18194 944 42614
6001 265 994 - 771
038 10 344 * 30269 430.63
C 46 \389 4;t lo 117
,620 1® 518 20 294 385
7127 533 10 402 487
8298 598 517 770
554 19064 664 45"6
664 10 704 3111 alO 483
956 lo 7U 126 25 46028
9°'4 9*i I'9B '6c 6 2at
103 10 971 4ro 10 470(6 II»
173 10 20198 34755 648
246 JO 21829 33341 955
264 1(3 tIJTZ 34064 20 48359
3 46 855 751 49.5^6
770 10 864 10 785 10 6rß
961 900 900 874,
10405 43115 <96
v 804 264 35056
125 th day's drawing—September 11.
195 ucß6 10 386 32.756
4136 950 10 965 34424
550 958 44236 10 764.10
987 10 13297 10 451 3535 1 10 r
37' I 391 10 3/,7 Bz 3
878 40 778 10 43427 36951 10
4278 14079 10 24424 • 38190
7°o 189 10 536 39880
998 129 766 40481
5870 256 46138 • 764 10
6216 604 725 10 41840 10
7509 974 10 92s 10 42063
566 i6o?i 10 27896 720 ia
847 '4O 28738 918 10
8377 17074 862 J0 V 954 IO
9136 533 10 10 43144
469 10 377 10 10 582
925 20 18316 29769 ie> 44487 10
1C443 ' 431 30004 296
779 5?4 350 504 10
844 558 400 lo 45986
844 19649 10 31099 io 47965
11500 40189" 166 48371
654 684 7JI 65A JO
748 41561 34096 4<-<)B'
- ' A
For Freight or Charter,
THE GOOD BRiG
S U K F Y,
Isaac Vredenburg, Matter ;
NOW lying at Clifford's wharf, and in uompleat
srder to receive a cargo. For terms please to ap»
ply the Captain en board, or
John Slyrirt,
No. 8 1, Ar-h-ftrecf.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
2000 wt.of double refined Saltpetre
too wt. of F F Gun Powder
300 barrels Herrings
hulhels of Timothy Seed
150 cafe? of Glaret, firft quality
A nd a quantity of Sherry Wine.
Sept. 29. v dtf
Advertisement.
On the 40th of November next in Alexandria
(being cou t day), will #e exposed for file one
or more covering Jacks, and several young
one? of different ages and sizes; all defcer.ded
from Koyjl Gift (an imported Jack from Spain,
upwards of 1 f hand* high) out of imported
linr'e frcpn Malta, full 14 hands high.
T.lie terms ot i'aje (or if not fold, of letting
them fir one or more seasons to cover) will
then be made known : the payments may be
maJe easy to the purchaser, bond and security
beinjr given for 'he amount, with.interpft.
At the fame tinge and placr, fundi y
Ho.ftsand Mares will be offered for tale. The
latter having been to the Jacks, are probtbly
with foal.
JAMES ANDERSON, Manage.
Mannt-Vernon, 4pth 7
September, 1797. 3 iaw4w
Public notice is hereby given,
To the Freemen of the City and County of
Philadelphia, and the County of Delate are,
a General El«3ion will be held pn
Tuesday the 10th day of October next j
the eledlion to be opened between the hours of
to o'c'ock in the forenoon, and 1 o'clock in af
ternoen —when the freemen at the city of Phi
ladelphia are to meet at the State-house, in the
said city, to ele<£l
Six representatives for the said city in the gen*
eral afnmbly.
Twenty persons for members of common
council.
Four persons for members of the felefl coun
cil, in the room of Francis Gurney, Godfrey
Haga, Henry Pratt, and James Read, whefe
time expires. M
The jfreemen of the county of Philadelphia
to eleil
Six reprefentativei for the said county in ge
neral affcmbly.
The freemen of thecity and county of Phila
delphia to eledl
Two perfens for (heriff.
One pcrfon for county cofnmHlioner.
The freemen of the city and county of Phi
ladelphia, and the county of Delaware, to eleft
One fenatpr for the state. %
The freemen of the county of Bltickley and
Kingfeffing, ate to hold their eleflion at the
State-hotife in the city x>f Philadelphia.
The freemen of the Northern Liberties, are
to hold their eleflion at the Town-house, in Se
cond ftrect contiEued, above Coats's flreet.
The freemen of the townlbipof Germantown,
Roxborough and Brifiol, are to hifld their elec-*
tion at the Union school-house, in Germantown.
The freemen of 4he townihip ot Oxford, Bv
bery, Low* Dublin and Moreland, are to hold
ther eleilion in th?houfe late John Barr.fley's in
Buffeltotvn, in the townlbip of Lower Dublin.
And the freemen of the dif.rict of South
wark, and the townlh'p of Moyamenling and
PalTyunck, are toholdtneir ele>Slicn atshecom
miffioner's hall, in the diftriifl of SoJtnwavk z»
forefaid.
The constables of each ward, diftrifl, See. are
to hold their eleilions in the differ; nt oiftriftj,
to rhocfe their infpeflors and assessors for the
ensuing ysar, and give their attendance at the
time and refpeiTlive places
JOHN BAKER, Sheriff,
sept. 49 dt.^Imported LithefnipMANCHESTEA*!
Benjamin Shew ell, Master, j
From Boiriitau:;, and for fab by *he subscriber,
ii Walr.ut St•('«£.
Lourdeaux Branny
friih market .Entitled to
Jvfedoe vrlrte, in do. Drawback*
sauti*rr.e, tio. do.
Thomas Murgatreyd.
\7 H O IIAS FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pipes and quarter calks
Rcti do. do.
Pimento in t»sß
4000 buitals Liverpool fait.
Aug. 24. tut&stf.
To be fold at Public Vendue,
To the jiightft hiddcr, at the luul'e of Mr.
William , Evans, the fifti of the Indian
Often, in tbv city of Baltimore, on Uii 25th
day of (Mtaber new, at 11 o'clock, A. M
Asout (even thousand acres of la'd,
the property of William Bell, of Philadelphia,
lyin ; i<ttu't:en Reifter's-town and Welhlifnftee,
ow.Yvmly called Liuie Wijichcfter, (the turn- j
)> ke toad rnne'throujth a confidarab'e part of
thbfc lands,) the trae'l hegiiu about, 17 miles
From Bslsimnre, within a IVjv hsndred yards
bf laid I'.-iller's-town, and extend:, to the d'f
tance of .-'.c.ut twenty-three rnihs from Balti
more, **. nd hwon'the main fills of Patapfico
-fiver, frpm three to fotlr miles thereon. Will
I e fold in trails of one' hundred and fifty to
three bundled There is a large propar-j
tinn cf tnr.i'low ani WoAd land 011 each trail,]
l-'rnc .'t itjcifi highly i'Tiprovrd, with excellent •
buildings liiJ Sue gr.-.fs.
Al SO
A tract of' feveu hundred acres of
lan !, c 1 !ed Clover Farms, within JWe miles of
i'l!a-.i?::ih«rjt» efktemed very good for Grass.
Richard Ponfonby, of BUderifburgh, will (hew
this land to any person inclined to purchase.
ALSO, j
A tr:'.£l of land of about three hun
dred and thirty a«res, within about two miles
and a half <j the President's house in the Fede
ral City. It is nearly all wood land, and a fine
11i9.11 nrofpeil, fron; which may be fcen the
tity of V. ailiingt'cn, Bladenfburgh, Alexandria
i-'d a of George-town, and" many miles
down the Potomac river. Mr. Richard Por.fori
6y, of Blader.fburg, will also (hew this land.
A libei-.! credit will be given for the grcateft
J?.yt of the purchase mo,ney. ihe terms will
be diatle knownm the day of sale.
May 8 w,)m
[uft fc eceived,
From Batavia (via Providence)
.s few Boxtsof Spices, confuting of
Nutroejjs. Cloves and uace
For file ty
' mLLINGSftt FRJIXCIS,
Rcnn street.
stay 30 dtf
'Duvis's Law Book Store y
No: 319,' Higb-Streetu
GE O R G £ DA V IS,
I}E!NC busied for fcrue tiuicya'l iii pfepara- I
) tiotij for rtmoying into hit pr»lent house, lu. >
Men undc thchecelttyof poftponinguutil this day
i:\fonni vg the gentlemen of the Bar gent rally thro'
the fed jS?ate», that hi* tyring importation ef
fyw books is now air-ngrtl Mid rc.vjy (or lale, on
he trulls will entitle-lam to the like jre
frretn* he has experienced for teveril years pad.
Catalogue", combining the mv\ Varied colltc
tionevtr iioyortcd irftu this caum-jr, arc printed
ant! will be iLlivcnui on application.
futife 27. aiw 6w
City Commijffionrr/ Office^
June 12, 1797. <
IN purftuncc of an ordinance from the feleil
and common councils, fftfled the ltd day of
May la ft, apipointinffcthe city cßniniiflioners,
and prefcribini their duties, fe<3ion 9th,
NOTICE IS HERKBY GIVEN,
That the city is divided into five diltrifls,
each to be under tbe fuperintendance of pne of
the citv romniiffioners, whoistobe individually
reiponfihle for the cleanliness of the fame, and
ate as follow. ,
DriflriiSl No. t. From the south fide of Ce
dar-firtet, to thenorth fide ofSpruce-drect,un
de rthe fuperi»tendence of Nathan Boys.
1. Frpm the north fide of Spruce-flreet, to
the north fide of Walnut-llreet, under the l'uper
itttendence ef Hugh Roberts.
3. Frnn the north fide of Walnut to the south
fidp H'gh-ftteet, undir the superintendence ot
Jofcpn Clsypoole.
4. From the north fide of High-fire«t, to the
north fi'l' of Mulberry street, under the super
intendence <f William Moulder.
5. From the north fide of Mulherry-ftreet to
the north tide of Vine-street, under the fuper
intsndence of Nicholas Hicks.
Thecleantngof High Ureet tobe in common.
Aftattd meeting of tlit city coinmiffion
yrs is held at the Old Court House, in High-
Ureet, every Tuesday eve'nisjg at .5 o'clock
fulv 14- 90 tm
Stands for £sV.
Jn purjianci of an 0: dinanct from theSeUtl and
Common CwinciU,bearing date t I H lid daj of
slprjb, 1797, providing for tbe appointment of
Ci!j Conunijfioners, : Se. &'cfl. tbe Istb.
""HE following places are fixed upon by the
L said City Commifiioners for Stands for
Draymen and their Horfcs.
In Vine-ft.eet, eastward of Front-ftre<tt, on
b.th fides. v..
SaiTafras, High,Chefnut and \V»lnut-ftlreets,
eiftwatd of Front-lit eet, oil the no/th fide.mily.
Mtilfcerry-flrect, south fide from Front to
Third-street.
Vrorrt-Jlrest, salt fide from to
EKrithW alley
s ronJ-ftreet, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's llore;, eafl fide.
Water-flroet,.weft fide from the north end of
Stomper's or Moore's /lores to Pine-ilreet.
Penn-ftrect from Pine to Ce-iar-ftrect, weft
•fide.
Drawbridge, north fide, ea/l of Front-street.
Spruce, Pine and South ilreets, eafl of Frott
street, l'onth lide.
IlocU-llreet, between VValnut-ftreet and the
flag floi'.e iroffings, tall fade, opposite George
Orklev's.
Second-flreet, between Saffifras and Vine
ftrerts, weft fide-
Fifth-ftreet, call fide from Chefnut to Mul
becry Ilreets.
Salfafras-ftreet, from Third to Fourth-street,
eift fide.
No dray or horse to Hand within ten feet of
anypnrop.
FOR HACKNEY COACHES.
pi ne .ftreet, north fide from Fourth to Fifth
streets.
Fifth-llreet, between Chsfnut and Walnut
ftreels, weil.
Braneh-ftret t, north fide, between Third a:id
fourth ilreets.
July 14. nrucdim
A Literary Trent.
handfomAy fer'tntid on cur/tin* j
paper, pt*tee I driftir y
\ new edition of that popular jnUi .intcrtainitig
work, Entitled
I 'HE FORESTERS, Aniericiui Tale ; being
a. a fcqucl to the hiflory of John Bull, the Clo
thier—ln afcriesof letters to a Irieiid, with theaJ-
Jition of two letters, ailutlino; recent political
:ranis.iont America.
T3ie follow from the Cl;».vis Allc»gorica,
shews the principal tlxnt arc introtiutred:
John Ball, the Kingdr:ni of /.Indiand
His Mother, thcCl urchof JSngland
HisV.'ifc, the Parliament
the Chuich of Scotland
Kis Bro<her<Patiick, Ireland
Lewi*,the K ngdotn of -l-rance
H.i*, the Old Conftitunon
His «<-w Wife, the National Ueprefentation
Lord Strut, the Kingdom of Spain
Nicholas-Frog, the Dutch Republic
The franjvs, the Trench Republic
T4\e Foresters, the United States of America
Robert Lumber, New-H amp {hire
Jolin Codline, MaflachuTetts
Humphrey Plowihai%, ConneAicut
« * H-ogtr Caaicr, Rhode Island
Bull Frag, New-York
Juliils Cjefar, fc New-Jerf«y
William Broadbrim, Pennsylvania
' Caffimar, Delaware
Walter c : Virginia
Hi« Orandfon, George Washington
Peter Pitch, North Caroiir. i
Ch tries
! Trulty, Georgia
Ethan Greenwood, Vermont
Hunter Lcngknifc, Kentucky
Black Cattle, Negro Slaves
Rats, Speculators
' Mother Carey's Chickens, JacobtnS
This popular aixl entertaining fatiricalhiftb
ry of Amtfiica is attributed to the Rev. Drl Bel
knap, It fhare of originality and a-
Ijounds with genuine humour. It is continued
i down to the prefoit time, «nd chapraAerifes those
1 late political which have fo
much ujfreafinofs vn America,
j Sold by H. and P.RICE, Bookseller, No. 15,
SoU)h Second Street, and No. 50, Market fueet.
1 June 16. 5
LAW BOOKS,
Lattft Lqndon and Dublin Editions.
H. ySf P. RICE, Booksellers,
No. l£, Sodth Second, anJ No. 50, Market street,
HAVE jufl received liy thg hte arrivals Irorn
London and Dublin, tlicit' fpritg importa
tion, confiding of a vaViety of the latcll and moll
apprpved J. aw Books, whici,ad3ed to those alrea
dy on hand, forms the meftezteafive collection ev
er offered for faiein this courtV~y. They tbeiefore
beg leave to notiije, that from the nature of their
comie<9irnsin Dublin, they are enabled to fell Irish
k erii>ions (as they have hitherto at the very
'loweil price? The following are among the latcll
publications.
Vefey, juu'rs Reports in Chancery, 4 Ycit.
P«akc's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgewty'«'Re*ort»
in the time of f.ord Hardwick® ; Floyer's Procters
Prance in the EcdeAaftical Courts; Barton's
Trratife on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd't Priilice of
the Scurt of King's Bench in. Personal Afiiom, t
parts complete 5 'Ward's Law vjf ?J»tiocs ; C'rnife
"U Uiej ; modern Reports, It vols. London edi
tion, .... .
H. and P, Rica expetS t» receive by the firft ar
rival •from New-Yferk the 6th vol. complete of
llurnfbrcl and Rail's Reports, the ad part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications.
June 16.
The History of PennTylvanTa^
By ROBERT PROUp,
Is now ill the press, and will he publifiied,
with all convenient cx)ici!ltion, by ZiCHA
kiah Pouljon, jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where lubfcriptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to tbe printed propcfals, until the
work is ready for the fubferitxrs.
July 'B. lawtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHNMILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8 Chefnul-Street,
►Have for Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS Reatly alTorte j, very low on
(hort credit.
March 6. §
Richard and yames Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to No.
45, South Fifth-ftrcet.
" uguft i. w&f6t
■ r 1 —■
Lancaster, Harrijburgh Carlijte,
Shippenjburg arid Sun bury
STAGES.
THE public are requMed to tske notice, that
the partnership which has far fometinie fub
fiilcd betwean Mathias Slough orf Lancaster, and
V/illiam Gaer, it now dissolved : but, noJ as M.
Slough infinuatei to the public without just canfe ;
as will more fully appear by a lettar on the fub
jciS from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
'Dctember lail. i recital of which is not now deem
ed ncceflTary. Any gentleman who wishes to be
mcrre informed of the merits of
this hufinefs, by applying to >V. Geer may have
the perusal ef M. Slaugh'.- letter, and then can be
at-full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Geer 13 net perfedly juftifiahie in attaching hini
felf to any other person in the profecutten of the
Stage conveyancs from Philadelphia to Shippenf
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberkl and generous support the
public were pleased to confer on the lirft effort in
this hufinefs, V! ilium Geer, in conjunction with
Mefirs. Reily, Weed and Wi'.mer, is determined
to prosecute and carry it on, vyitH every care, at
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can poflibly exert.
The a! (he company, who are amply provided
with horfes, and every appurtenance to
render the passage fafe and commodious, inform
thofa wno wifb to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they Ci.n take their feats at
Oeorge Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Mat'ktt Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
.tbdPiiday, to proceed to Lancafier, Harrilburg,
Carlifie and Shippci.lburg. The tare as hitherto
ellablitlieci.
For the farther accommodation of the public,
' a Stage will Hart every Weduefday front the house
of Samuel hlder, is Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury 111 Northumberland toumy, erery Thursday,
and return from thcocd and arrive at Hamfburg
eveiy Saturday, so that passengers dcilined for
I.aticaftcr or Philadelphia, ir.ay proceed o« Mon-
WILI.IAM GEER.
J,;u:caller, Jan. »7, 1797-
N. 13. This Line of Stages Harts from th«
house of William Ferrae, in Lancafttr, qn every
1 uefdr.y and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro-
to the westward; and irom the house of
air. fo-.ucl Eli'.. 1 in Harr»/burg every Wednef
da;.-.jr.orning, ou the fame • evening arrive* at Pa
trick Cocliran'b in Shippenfliucg, aril returns
from thence cn'every Thursday ■ performing the
fame routine daily av in its tour trCnj l-hiiadel
pliis. m»f
Cr:y of \Vofhingt;)ii-. 1
SCHEME
Of (.he Lottery, No.
For thd l,h»: ovzmsfil <{/ ICiisral City.
A fnagni&cirit'lwelfiujMtjoafe 10,000 dollars,
& cafli Jcijooo, are 50,000
1 ditto 15,000 &ca 15,00s
1 ;istto 15,000 Si cafo 15,000 30,0' ocr
1 ditto io,ooo & caC'i 10,000 >a,ooo
1 diJto 5,000 <]c caHi 5,000 tdfooo
1 ditto 5,000 & tali 5,000 10,000
1 priie.of ro,ooo"
id '. {,o■; t> Jichj ife • 1 :i,poO
10 d>. l,ot'io - , - 10,00 c
53 <io. 500 - . - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - in,ooo
♦•W d ). co - - 10,000'
400 do. - * 10.000
do. ao - 30,000
do. 10 - 158,000
Prizes.
,53.i1l "lauka. '
59,300 Tickets, it Eight Dollari, 400,00#
N. 13. Tol-jvour those whs" may take a qcan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the l st drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but ovs :
Ajjfl approvednotts) fecurinj; payment in either
moaiy c* prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
he received fen anynumbcr not lcfsthap 30 tick
ets.
This will afford an eljgaot fpecimer. of
tfic private buildings to be creeled in the City of
Waliiington—Two beautiful defigos aie alicjdy
feleiled for the *ntire Ironts ou two of the public
squares; from thefedrawingi.it ispropried toerecil
two centre and 'our corner bv.ildin£» ai fconaspof
fibls after this lottery isfold r andto ccnvry them,
when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
clu manner described in the fchcme for the Hotel
Lottery. A uett deduflion of five per cent, will
be raade to defray theneceffary expenses of print
ing, &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intvndcd for the Natnr.al to
be eitdled within the city of Wafljington.
The real securities given {or the payment of the
Erizes, ire hell by the Pretidcot and two OirnJl
or» of the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
more than half the : mount ot thelottery.
SAMUEL BLODOET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colsm
bi'i ; of James Weft it Co. Baltimore; of Fettr
Oilman, Boston ; .of John Hspkins, Richmond ;
and of Rirhard Wsll», Cooper's Ferry.
mwf
From the Herald.
CAUTION.
"\TrHEREAS a combiaaticui of men in this
V ' couiuy itave undertaken to enrich theni
feiveJjby fabricating titles to iuuodry valuaulatradl6
of land, ths pioperly of gentlemen liflug in New
Yoik, Philadelphia, London itvd Paris, for which
traiVof land large funis of niouty hive been paid
to those fraudulent men, by innocent purchafcrs ■
It is therefore jult that public information fhoutd
be given, to the end, that the injured may fo(.krc
drefs while the pen have property, sod are ro be
found. who have been difcovtred are Tru
man Hxrrifon, Jofcph Witcomb, Jaid now to re
side in the copnty of Saratoga ; Thomas Keily and
several others who go under fictitious names. It is
fuppofcd that the lauds ottered frr sale on those fa
lirieated cities, are at lcafl wvrth fifty thousand
Such as we have »dual knowledge of are
as follows : Lots No. 11 and u, Otfego patent,
thcufand acres each, the a&ual property of William
Dellwyn, now 0/ London ; lots No. 58 and 64,
fame patent, thousand acres each, the property of
Mr. Cbauinont, now of Paris, and lames A7eriU
and others, ol this State. There is fomc grounds
to suppose that thr lands of Richard Wells and
Charles Wharton, of Philadelphia, are under their
management.—The Printers will.do well to give
this a place in their papers, as well to cnution the
public against purchasing those lands, at also to de
prive these men in fature from impaling on indivi
duate, which their education and addrels have en
abled them to do heretofore. Witcomb has been
a fliopkeeper of some note in tliia sourrtry.
Tile following affidavits will fct in a clear point
of view tile wickcdnefsof tbofe men,which when
the public have perufrd, will induoe tlieni to ex
cufc the interference of Wu. COOPER.
Otfego, July aßth, 17*7.
1 I homas Kelly,of the County cf Otfcgo, hav
ing been led into an error, by John Wit cmb and
Truman Harrifon, of the fame County, to llgn a
deed to them, for lot No. 58, O fygo patent, which
was the property of William T Franklin now Mr.
Chamont'e and others; -nd further the said Joseph
and Truman did perfuademe to do this against my
inclination, which was made out on the rcth day
of November, 1793, or set back two years so as
to bring it to that time ; u>fd further the name ot
Pardon Starksto that deed was a fictitious iumt ! ,
thi re being no such pfrlon there. To this i make
voluntary oath. THOMAS IiIiLLY.
19th July, 1797.
On the 19th July, 17p7, caiwe personally before
me, .Jhomaft Kelly, the fublcnbi.i to the above af
fidavit, and made solemn oath that it contains noth
ing but rtif truth.
ELIHU PHINNEY, Jufticc of the Peace.
On the 18th July, 1797, came before me Jacob
Kibby, a person by me well ki:own and worthy of
good credit, who on hi* lolemn oath did fay, that
two of the parties ahovementioned did make ap
plication to him this deponent, some time in the
winter of 1796, to make them a deed for two thou
sand acrss of land in thc.Otego patent, and pro
mised this deppaen-t a (hare of profite, on tho
sale of said landb, for his so ; and th?t they
made application several tinico for the fu-rr.j pur
which iervices this deponent as often refufed, de
claring to them that he had no to lauds, aud
coulddo no such thing ; which daring attempt on
thia deponent's integrity he had related among his
friends several times, previous to making this affi
davit. JACOii K.IBJ3EY.
Sworn before me,
ELIHU PHINNEY, Jufticeof the Peace.
Aug. 3. iavv4'.v.
Thirty Dollai-s Reward.
ELOPED from the service of the lubfrribt-r,
on tbe 19th inltanf, a negro man by the
name of DICK, about twenty-five ytars of age,
and frve feet nine %/tcn inches high ; by trade
a carpentei, and is a very liveiy briik work
man. His countenance is very good—When
spoken to, he converses with ease and confi
dence, aud is pretty fagjeious. I purchased
the faidfellow of Mr.Dubney Minor, in whole
name he has been advcrSi'ed in the Richmond
newfpaptrs. Durii:ghis lailruivaway rrip (last
1 summer) he was employed a confiiierable length
of time, by lame person near Dumfrii s, from
which eircumOarce,'l conjeilure, he, has taken
another notbern route I fore-warm all prrfone
from'giving him employment, of any kind
whatever,.*nd maftersot l efielsand others, from '
carrying him out of tills itatc. The above re
ward wdl be given if he is taken within forty
miles of this city ? and an additional sum, in
proportion to ihe distance he may be broughr,
or the trouble a ndcxpence the apprchender may
beat, in bracing hiin to this place.
AUG; DAVIS.
N.B. His apparelu as cf the usual negro kind,
luithe had more cioatbs thauis ctt.loraary for
them to possess.
AD,
Kith'tr.-uJ, June.:i, ifj7*
Will be Lauded,
Front oal.oara the' Clip Afiive, C«ij>t.Bj.AU.,»r:jn: 1
K.iailiutgh,
to hai*swliilcßiiiiii clean Hemp
2 caiks Clover Sted
j For Pale by
Thomas Herman L suffer,
North Fifth Arcet, No. H 4.
T »jrtek6. '
VV] 11 iam ft fackbui n,
LOTTERY akv, BROKER'S OFFIC. 17
No. 64 south Second •reel.
{ ICKTLTS in t* f >e C;.ri-l Lottery, No. 11, TylifcS
a coram inced draw in if the 2.9 th May, I'Ok
SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor
tion rs til - drawing gdVatfft:*. part icuLirjjy on a.c
cejint of the five fit it drawn tickets. prizes of
' four thousand dollars eacli, on the latl day of
drawinjf.
Check kcot for*xnminatio» and rejiftcr*
ing, in the Canal, No. 2, City of Waldington, No.
a, and Paterfon potteries.
Also, tickets forfalein the Schuy lkill bridge and
Perk omen Br.idgs lotteries, which wil\ begin
drawing in the .courfeof the summer.
The taufinefs of a Broker in ail kinds of Sfock,
Dills, Nptcs, Lands, See-&c. tranfa&ed with the
utmost actentiou. . '
June 2 mM
£1 Seine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROBERT CAMPBELL & Co.
40 South Second street,
* [PJ-ice 31 Cents]
A View of the Causes and Consequen
ces of the present War with France.'
By the Honorable Thomas Erskike.
May 1 s §
state trials.
Sold b W.Young, Bookseller, No. sa, South Se
- cond-ftrecr,
The Pqnnfylvania Statfc Trials,
CONtaining the impeachment, trial, and acquit
al of Francis Kopfcinfan, Judge of the Court of
admiralty, arid John Nieholfon, Comptroller Gen
era!—ln one Age 8 vo. yol. Price, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general aflortaientof
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the. pack
age, well allotted, and entitled to the drawback if !
axpwted. July 7 —*
rHK SUBSCRIBER having been appointed by
the Envoy Extraordinary and Mintßer Pleni-(
ptOMAtiary of Jtiis ttri tannic Majesty, General «gent
l<jr afliuing iiritilh creditors, and such particular a
ger.tsas they may specially authorize, in profeoutiug
their claims before the cwmnnHionersfor-carrying iu
to the (ixfh article ot the Treaty of Amity % Con-
J nurce and Navigation between his Britannic MajeJly and
I the United Slatei of America, hereby gives notice that
lie haa opened his office at his house the foush eail
corner of Chefnut and fifth ftrcets, Philadelphia,
\>herc he is
for claims with the vouchers aud documents thereof,
for the purpole 0/ bringing forward the fame agree
ably so the rules and orders which the board may
think proper to prescribe.
Anc as it will be for the intercll of all concerned,
that the several claims be so stated, and fupport
cd, as to prevent the delay which would arise iron*
' the of obtaining further information, or ad
ditional materials,fiom periods residing at a diltanre,
the general agent thinks it his duty to add» (for the
diie&ion chiefly of those, who, not having employ
ed particular agents, may leave the prolccution of
their claims to his cliaige and management) that all
such claims oughtin particular to set torth—- '
id. The proper description and fitnation of the
creditor or claimant, end original debtor, refptdf
tvely. *
2d. Tbe date aadnature of the original contract or
debt.
3d. When, in what manner, aod to.what extent,
the creditor or claimant wi.s prevented or impeded,
-by the provificn, operation or defed of law, the
deeifions and practice of eourft, or restraint of exe
cution. from recovering payment of the debt in
queftiorn
4»h The lofsatvl damage incurred or fuftainpd,
in ccnfequence of such impediments, whether ihe
fame may have arife»i from the infolveney, change of
fnuation, or dcaiii of the debtor, the loss of legal
remedy from iapfe of time, or othercaufes'impairifg
tbe value aud leetoiiyof the 1 -debt, which would not
havefo opeftted if fuchimpeaiments bad notexilled.
And sth .The particular grounds iind uafon.s on
which the claimant mniiucins, in tl»e terms of the
'reaty, th«at ' by the ordiiaary c*?urfe of judicial pro
mgs, the creditor' cannot now obtain and a£Hiai!y
have and iccetvc full a»d adequate compensation" tor
the loiPes and damages fofuifaiued. »
The general agitni thinks it his diAty further to fug-
th»L the f.veral claims ought 10 be accompanied
and tnpporicd by the affidavits of the ciaimauts duly
Iworn and rcgu»;rly attcfteo, both as to »he txtilence
tif the dtbts -laimed, and such other circtim(flncd&
as may be within their own knowledge refpe&rvely.
\sid wherever the claimanis in Uatingtbe nature of
their evidence (which must in every instance be the
hell of which tfie cafe, is capable) have occasion to
tcfer to the teUimony of witr.eHes, it will be proper
to-apprifc the general agent of the names and places
of residence of such witncilesand the faClsto be eßa
blifhed by ta;u testimony.
Win. Moore Smith.
Philadelphia. June Bch. i*rq?. d
For Sale,
Thai well known place, called Vandkorifi's
fruY,
ON Nefhamiiiy creek, 18 miles from Phili
ladeiphia, on the New York polt road,
containyig 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the,
prcti»iCcs arc a large two tlory flone honfeoccii
pied as a tvern, anil a good one flory stone kit
chen, a large frame fiaTjte with a good {hreflltEp
fioof, Vnd lome out building:s-*alfo a of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a molt elegant fituaticn fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Ntfhara
iny to its jun&ion wiih the Delawaw. and thence
acrofsto the Jersey (hore. It has thp privilege
of one half the toll received from lii* bridge.
For term 3 apply to the SMhfcciber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
VaY it. Jtawtf.
OOi.UiViBIA HOtibK .
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MUS. CiIIOOMBRIDGE with rn»ch pleas
ure ."id-ref;ieft, returns Iter fuicere ac
knowledgement for the liberal eiKoui agemetot
she has received during''*four years residence is
Phila'Veiphia ; and afftires her friends ami the
public, so far from intending t-> decline her
school, (he hjh made a fnperior arrangement for
the more convenient| accomilirc'atiofl of her
scholars.—Every branch of u.Vftil and pflite
edueatwn is particiilarly attended to by Mrs.
Groombridge and > inaflars excelling in tieir
refpeflive prose (Tmns.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June j.ii, 1797. Jl'mJcf
The liiyatimi i 9 perfe>D!y healtky ; audmade
.more agreeable by an exter.frve garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
Juj} Publi/hed,
And to he hid of MeiTrs. Dol.fon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, aud the other pricipal Bookfcllers in the
city,price one dollar, iwinty-f ve cents,ill hoards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BfeNHMW SMITH BARTON, 11. n.
JutK iO. *6t
A'cfs cff Simfon, »
——U.WB KOk SALE
C Hi'V<!l,'ads,
j Jixccllmt Coffee in Ticice?, aud
| (. Tarrd-.
A /nu.ll j' M't*! n( ( ca , i|, !
;■ few ru,:, iv„..s I,'ll lie:, iri,!s, fourth props
1 »'<* T,or . Iv '7 ifr^ <"••! ®H in Madeira pipe*
inv4 '"" e i''vvel!cry a.i;a hoficry to be fold by
tiv p;-}fao- C
A K-vv i,. r,s oi bed I'n !ifh chctfc.
_>!?*?•" dtf.
The Subfcribcr has for Sale,
A large ailurtment as India Muflifls
coarse and fine
Tndi.i Calicoes
Sooty Rore^l-i
B'ue Cloths and Checks ' ,
Banc! u;,Ta Handkerchiefs
due red a~d Giili Handkerchief
An ii, voice of Irifli Linens and ihcetinss, well
affortrd
A box ci' Pi.ipers
Iht.breilas
i v.'o boxes of fi<-e Spice;, couinins Nutme«<L
Ivldce and Cloves
Black Peiip-r of firft quaKry
F.nti India Ginger
Jiva Sugar
A quantity of Madeira Wine
Ditof Gin
Hull Brimftoiie
Mor decai Lewis. *
I?,. TBWI m
Higgins' Specific
FOR THH
PREVENTION AND CtJRF. OF THE
TFLI.OW VEVF.R.
EVF.R finer this difenfe mi.d'* A;ch ravages in this
i ri'y and New-York, the anchor has turned His
attention to its causes and rare.—The relult of his
crquiriej has convinced hhn that the reason why so
few pyfons recover from its attacks, are frnm it»
rot being well underflood, and the consequent
wrong method taken to cure it. He is perfuade'd
that the exceflive b1 f d.jr* and tnercuriel reatment
of the Faculty is highly injurious, and that the on
ly rational mode of treatment is by the use of proper
acid 6. Convinced of this he offers his Spertfr as &
certainV'medy, if used according to the directions.
To be had in bottles, at one, dollar each, of the
inventor Gn. Hi/rgim, Cherry flreet, two. doors a
bove Ninth ftrert, (late manager of Jackson and
Co's Medicine Warchoufe, London); by y. Lt
tlanc. No. 2-6 ; W. Griffith, No. T77, T. Prara. No.
»i, Soi'th Third ftrert, 7". Stiff, No. ;s,New#reet,
near Vine ftrc-et.and J. Gales, No. 36, Race (treet.
Aug. 25. tuths jt
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMAS, and
CONSUMPTIONS.
Just received, by Wn. GRirrrjns,N« 177, South
Second-street, a frelh supply of
Genuine Balsam of Honey,
A Medicine invented by the latfl Sk John Hi(t
(who knowledge as a'Botanift procured him
the appellation of ihe Linnasus qf Britain) and h
. «or.fidered in England a? a certain cure forthe above
complaints; it is also offingular efficacy in the
Hooping Cough, ' ,
It may also be had retail of W. A. Stokm, No. •
61, South Second street, and T. Stiif, ,55, Sew
ftrset, in bottles at 75 cents each. .
Wm. GairriTHs having observed tHchappy «£>
feift of the medicine, (fever al cases of Cures haw
ing come within tis own knowledgeVwd thegreat
t demand for it has induced' hrjn to order a large
supply, a part of whichhe has just rsceived.
3. —■ T»W3T»
50 Dollars Reward.
RAN away on Saturday last, two indented Ser
vants, Gifford Oally, a mulatto boy.about'l7
years of a llim light built act;va fellow, can
reail and write,five feet seven or eight inches high,
has a heavy countenance ; had oh a fuftian coatee
and trowfers, a high crowned hat, fine (hoes &c.
Allan Hellotis, a'ulack man, about >4 years of
age, five fuct seven or eight inches high,athick fct
clumsy built ftllew, about the.breech;
had Oil a laiior's blue jaefc.-t lined with fwanflrii:,
dark striped vest, fuftjai) trowfers, high erownei
hat, coaiie shoes, &c.; each of them had fevcra}
fhirtsand several other donthes with them. Thii
ty Dolfcrs will be paid lor the runaways, or 15 dol- '
lars for each, and reafonahle charges, on delivering
them at No. 54, North Third-ftrect.
'I he blact fellow is about a year from Lewis
Town, in the County of SufTcx, ftatc of Del*,
ware, and has taken the boy with him.
t J UI V 3 1 - mtu&f^w
To be SOLD or RENTED,
A LARGE 3 Story Brick House, on
Scruih fi<le ot' Filbert fireet,
Eighth.and Ninth, lately oceupied as the Sur
veyor General's Office. • .
The Building is 36 feet front led 35 fcdt^u^
ftlie lot 110 feet deep, with the privikjgfof 1 nine
eet wide Alley extending the whole lenjsth o?
he lot, to a thirty feet wide Court for Carrugca
to turn in. The House is not plafiered,
may be turned either into #ne, or two dwcwSK
Hoiifes. It is suitable for a
or would make a good Tavern. J'uVmediate
pcfieffion will be given, f y
Apply to No. iji, Gidihft-SlrtWt
Ahr. 21. gtrtUv,
Muftcal lnjlrument Manvfaftorf.
Is'o. 167,- drcMhreet. ' , ■
HARPER, harpsichord, grand, portable
lid '-board, pier table and fqnaj-c VorN:
mak.-r lror.j l.cndon, returns tfu)ik»MiiKicftiefKja
•and ihe j.ublie, fdr thtir liheral encouragement
a«id hopes that by hisalfiduity and atqemien to cv»
ery Ijihikli of his
of their iavors. Piano fertes made on the ncwelif
and n-.oft approved plans, with jiodals, pateß» K
fwcil, and French karp flop, which he fLittcji
himi'slf will i.e found cn trial by unprejudiced
judges,lo be equal if .not fuperii.r to any import
-d, an.d <wcnty per cent cheaper. Any inlru
m;.rt purchased' ul him, if I'i>t appcovedof ilk
• twelve mouths, he will fxcTiange..
N. 13. All/kind-s of'Alwfic.,l laiVrurriefits *
uned, and repairco with the greeted. Jtfcterety l , '
difptcH, and in tflie most reaionaWe-ttrnisj fvs '
rea."iymoney oaiy.
Second Hanc F'. rtcj |n'«xehang«v• ■'
May r. & irri.
"■ ll 1 *" ""
Forty Dollars, Reward. ; •
T) AN away from the iVulcrifcer Air the ifes
iv cnddiyof this infl. July, JftMnlatto Slan,
nur.ed Will Uowzer, about taffy years of age,,
five feet t'even or tight inches high, rather'
chunky made ; had on when he wens '
drab colored cloth coat, flripcd purple
and jacket. It is probable-he fli».
cloatfics, as he took a mim'uer with him.
fai.l fellow formerly belonged to Mr«Chafle»'
lilakc of this pUce; <u:d it is expeifct) fcchatt
made towards Jones's Neclc, ii> the
State.—Any person fa id fel
low, avd feciiring h*ia> so that J cifiget Iwm a
gain, (hail -rcttivt the ahoVt/tvydrd" if takt«
'ttt of the county, ard Twenty Dollars if in
ibe couiiry, and all reasonable charges if
hutrii. \ J
JESSE REED,
Q'icn Ami's Coumy^Maryland.
i> .' , wit*.