of tije Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1615.]
SALES BY AUCTION.
Stated Sales
For D R r GOODS.
f Forenoon —Edward Fox, No, jfi,
Mindar ' Front-ftreet,
Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 65
South Front-street.
f Forenoon—John Connelly, Old City
«r .rj J Audlion, No. 73 fouA Front-street.
) Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
C High-street.
Wtdncfday \ 3enfon» No. 74
J I south Third-ftrcet.
Thar/day \ Fox.
J { Afternoon—John Connelly.
J Forenoon—William Shinnon.
5 Afternoons-John Connelly.
Afternooß—Peter Benfon.
Fridav
Saturday
United States, 1 -
Pennfyl-uania
IN pursuance of a writ to me directed from the
honorable Ricrt \rd Peters, Esq. Judge of the
Diftricl Court of the United States in and for the
PennfylvaniaDiftrift, will be exposed to PUBLIC
SALS, at the Custom-house, in th: city of Phi
ladelphia, on Friday, the 17th inft. at II o'cloilc
at noon,
2 hampers of Earthen Ware
I box of Indigo
I bex of Merchandize
I half barrel do.
bags'of Coffee
j birrel of Salt Petre
i barreis}
i keg >of Linens
I trunk )
I barrel of pugar
I bag of Pepper, and
Part of 3 bags of Sugar
Th« imc having been libelled agaiftft, prosecuted
and canuemned as forfeited, in the said Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marfaal's Office,
ad November, 1707. S
United States, 1 «.
Pi j unfylvania D'ljlr'tci, J-"
IN pursuance of a writ to me direfled from th e
honorable Richard Peters,Efq. Judge of the
DiflriA Court of the United States, in and for the
Pentifylvania DiftriS, will be exposed to PUBLIC
SALE, at the Cuftom-houle in the city of Phila
delphia, on Friday, the 17th inft. at 12 o'clock,
at noon,
354 Silver Watches
30 gold Watches
500 Watch Keys
The fame having been libelled against, prosecuted
and condemned as forfeited, in the said Court.
1 WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marftial's Office, 7
ad November, 1797. J
lo be Sold, by Public Vendue,
On Monday, the 13th day of November next,
at II o'clock in the forenoon, at thelitedwel
' ling plantation of Alexandsr PoRTiR.Efq.
deceased.in the Hundred and County cf New-
Castle,
All the Stock of the said Farm,
Confiding of horses fit for draught or saddle,
eolts, far cattle, milch cows, calves, several
pairs of large and valuable oxen. i'Keep and
hogs (all the horned-rattle and faeep, being of
a very {argeand fine breed ) ahd also carts, har
rows, ploughs, and other farming utensils, to
gether with a variety of houfchold furniture.
The conditions of Sale will be made known,
at the rime and place aforefaid.
Mary Porter, Admrx
New Castle Hundred, State of )
Delaware, o<fl.'»o, 1797. )
All persons indebted to the estate of the
said Alexander Porter, are requested to make
payment, and thsfe who have demands against
the fame, to produce them duly authenticated,
for fettlereent.
Oft. 30.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private sale)
ON Friday, the firll of December next, at fix
o'clock, i* the evening, at the Merchants' Cof
fee Ho life, in Philadelphia, Forty Thousand Nine
Hundred and Thirty Nine- acre* of LAND,
now or late in the County of Washington, and Com
monwealth of Pennsylvania, and on the waters of
Frelh and Wheel isg Creeks and Ten Mile Run.—
These Lands arc fertile and well timbered, and were
patenteed. early in 1787, except 3700 acres or therea
bouts, which were patented in <792. One fourth
of the purchase money to be paid at the time of sale,
so; the residue a credit of one, two and three months,
will be given, on interefl and good security.
O&obcr 6. * 3awtS
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
(If not before difyofed of at private fait)
ON Friday, the firtt day of December, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
Hoiife, in Philadelphia, Twenty Six Thousand Se
van Hundred and Eighty acres of LAND, in the
State of New-York, between the northern boiiixis
of Pennsylvania and the Sufquehanna, now, or late,
in the townships of Htmden and Warren, and coun
ty of Montgomery One fourth of the parcfoafe
money ii to be paid at the time of sale ; -for the re
lidue a credit of one, two, and three months will be
givrn, on interest and good security.
O&odk. 6.
Boston Glass Manufactory.
THE citiieni of the Utaited States are hereby
that the manufa&ure of Window
Olafs is n«w commenced at the Glass Honfe in Bos
ton.
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of th*Bofton Glass, as it is so well known
throughdat the United States to be in every refpeit
greatly superior to any ever imported from Europe.
It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
may be constantly had by applying to C* arles JF.
KopfEß, at the Glass House.
Orders from the distant States to be aidreffed to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-street, Boston.
Boston, Sept 30, 1797 O 4— jaw6\v
Mejfrs. Timothy and Mason, Charlcjhm ; Mejfrs.
Hodge and Boylan, Halifax, -V. C. Messrs. IVillett
and O'Connor, Norfolk ; Mr. Ellis Price, Alexandria ;
Mejfrs. TunJt and Bro-wm, Baltimore ; Mr. Hopkins,
New-Tori ; and Mejfrs. HuJfon 13* Goodwin, Hart
ford 1 Mr. Seymour, Savannah ; are requejltd to insert
the above once a -week 6 weeks. The accounts to be for'
warded to the Editor.
TENERIFFE WINE.
LANDING at Walnut-street wharf, TENE
PIFFE WINE, of excellent quality, in pipes and
half pipes, for sale by JAMES YARD.
©«. 19. «®Bt
, PHILADELPHIA:
For Sale or Charter,
imjkj GOOD HOPE,
tMaAnjoJ Wi'l carry about uoo barrels,and
is ready to take in a cargo. For terms
apply to
Pragers & Co.
No. 151, South Second-street.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Liibon, and Teneriffc wine. •
November 7. dtf.
ive years old Madeira Wine,
OF the very firlt quality, in pipes, hhd». and
quarter caflts, just landed from the fliiji Edward,
from Madeira, and for sale by
IVHO HAS FOR CHARTER,
CHARLOTTE,
Burthen about 1100 barrels,
» j u st hove down and put in com
plete order, and now ready to receive a cargo.
Alfa, For SALE or CHARTER,
JOS EPH U S,
—Burthen about 1800 barrels.
nevember 6
The Ship
CLOTHIER,
Nathaniel D. Gardner, majier,
"\X/ a '' t ' le I<l b
y y in ft. For freight or paf
hge apply to the Captain, at Vanuxem'ti wharf,
or to
Nov. j. dtf
tor Anifterdam,
WILMINGTON,
Captain H.'lman 5
\ Staunch, fad Tailing, Phi-
XI Udelphia built vessel, of
live oak and cedar, 15 now in complete order, and
will fail with all poHibte speed, having great part of
her cargo already engaged. For freight or pas
sage (having excellent accommodations) apply to
the captain on board, or to
Marjhal.
Gonaives Cotton, Sugar, Mo
laftes, and a few thousand weight of excellent Cor
dage, including several Cables of 8£ k 11 inches,
november 3. tutbAstf
the ship
WILLIAM PENN,
James Jofiah, Master,
u. CtS+- -- "X T 7"ILL fail with all conven
•«■ *SS yy ; ent e xp e di t ; #D p or
Freight or Paflage, apply to Captain, or to
Marjhal.
Oil. 31.
For London,
Daniel M'Pheifon, Majltr.
TO fail with all convenient fpced—a conlidera
blc part of her cargo bcini* already engaged.
For terms of Freight or Passage, apply to
Oil. 27
Port ancl Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By ship Edward, from Madeira, and Betfsy and
P«ggy. Oporto, in Pipes and Hoglhcada,
For {ale ly
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALt,
AMITY.
&)\-£M' Four thousand barrels burthen,
excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo—about three year* old.
UKEWISK,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 barrel*, ready also to receive a car
go—and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Just landed from the above yefiel» at South street
wharf. eolm. Nov. I.
JUST arrived at Wilmington, Delaware
State, and now landing Jrom on board the
Brig A.Sive, William Williams, Matter,
One hundred hhds. 3d & 4th proof,
And for Sale bv
Jehu Hollingf'worth Co.
Wilmington, Sept.ll. dtf
N. B. The above Brig,
and the brig GAYOSO, are
alio for Sale or Charter, and
*jHSwIC~- now ready to receive a cargo
on board, at Wilmington. Apply as above.
gawtS
M THE SHIP
khd&ttfr John Bulkley,
Samuel Volaru, Master.
Teffcl is built of live oak
J_ cedar, of about 3000
barrels burthen, and ready to receive on board a
cargo.
Jefle £s° Robert Wain.
1_
OA. 31
For Freight or Charter,
THE OOOD BRIO
S U K E Y,
Isaac Vredenburg, Master ;
NOW lying at Clifford's wharf, and in compieat
order to receive a cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain «n board, or
John Slyrin,
No. 81, Arch-flreet.
who Has for sale,
2000 wt.of double refined Saltpetre
600 wt. of F F Gun Powder
300 barrels of Herrings
50 bulhels of Timothy Seed
lso#afe?of Claret, firft quality
And \quantity of Sherry Wine.
Sept. 119. v
By John Fen no, N O, iip Cbejnut Street
JOHN CRA.IG,
No. 12, Dock-ftreec.
for Liverpool,
JAMES OLDDEN,
No- 41, N. Front-street
Summer I & Brown.
Who have on hand,
1? or London,
jfejfe (if Robert Wain.
_f_
Rofs & Sim/on.
Antigua Rum,
For Charter, ,
SATURDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER n, i 19 7.
Philip Nicklin fcf Co.
HAVE FOR SALE;
At their Stores on Walnut street Wharf,
Havannah Sugars, white and brown
%S hhds Jamaica do.
3000 pi. ccb of broad Nankefcris
Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighth*.of cht(U
in tubs
Madeira Wine in pipes and hogihead*
1 enerifFe Wine in pipee
OKI led Port Wine in hogsheads
Sail Canvass, assorted, No. I to 8
8 cafe# of Mancheiler Goods, consisting of Dimities,
Muflinets, Ginghams,Thickictts,Corduroys, &e.
aoo crates Queens' War#j aborted
alTorted
Black quart Bottles
Yellow Oere in calks
A quantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Standj, &c,
100 quarter casks Gun Powder
Ikei lave alfofor SALE t CHARTER t
Hamburg packet,
Burthen 310 tons, coppered to
aM%3lVnKaak.'he btnd», and compleisly fitted.
TheJhip MOLLY, burthen 340 tom, a
good vessel, and completely fitted.
The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
rels, may be ready for sea in a few days.
The whole of the above vessels to be seen at
Walnut street Wharf. § mv. 10.
jawtf.
Wanted to Charter,
To any port in Hifpaniola and back
jragfcP A fad failing Vessel, of the bur
thcn of 6 or 700 barrels. For terms, apply to
Benjamin Morgan*, No. i?o, Sotlth Frpnt street,
or to
nove ruler 10,
For Sale by the Subicribers,
Prime Rice itt :whole and half tiercel
Bout deaux Brandy
Tenrrijfe Witie
Molajjcs
Georgia and Carolina Indigo
Ravens Duck and one bogjhtad of paint
bru/hes.
Nov. y
Drawing & Painting Acadpny,
rio. 63, Walnut-street.
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and the
generous public, that his academy opens this
day. November the 6th.
Hours of tuition for ladies, from t till 4 i* the
afternoon, and in Ihe evening from 6 till 8 for
gentlemen.
J Cox has added to his celle&ion of copies a va
riety of fine views, &c. drawn from nature during
hi* absence from the city:
All kinds of colours prepared, and every article
used in the different branches of drawing and
painting, fold on reasonable terms.
Terms of Tuition, Six DnuJr: W * half per
quarter
A morning class for grown ladies, frrom 11 till
Ix o'clock. d3t ntv.6.
TO BE LET—At a moderate Rent,
The principal part of aHOUSE,
WITHIN a (hort didante of the Coffiee-houfis,
which has been occupied f»r the lafl four months,
conGftingof a good dining room and parlour, two
bed rooms and a drefiine room, two garrets, kitch
en, wood vault and cellar, all in excellent order,
fit for the immediate reception of a small family.
None need apply butthofe who are relpeSaHle and
regular. Inquire at the office of this Gazette.
Ofi. 94. dtf
James & Richard Smith,
r T n AKF. the liberty of informing tl.eir friends
JL and the public, that they have rembved their
(lore to No. _J 4, South FrontJtreci, «ext d«or to Ed
ward fox's Auction Room, where thty have at
this time for fale,a large and general afibrtment of
European isf Eaji India Goods,
Many of which are just imported in the Clothier,
William Penn, &c. &c,
o<sl. aj
St. Croix Sugar Rum,
For Sale by
Otf. »6
Samuel Pleafants & Sons,
No. 74, South Sreonil-Jlt til,
HAVE received a supply of Seasonable GOODtf,
which they are now spelling for sale, on
reasonable terms. Oft 27. —4W
ROSS SIMSON,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COT sON /
Bengal SUGAR, is bagt and boxes
Jamaica,
St. Vincents, > RUM.
and Bengal j /
Ofl. 27. §
Jo Gentlemen who intend /pending
the Winter in the City.
ROOMS to LET,
WITH or without Bo^rd —at No. 114, corner
of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation
agreeable—and vicinity has been free from the late
contagion. OA. a?. —dtf
Imported in the latest arrivals from
Amftcrdam and Hamburg, and forfale by
B. tsf J. Bohlen,
A large assortment of jint Frtncb Camlrics,
Platillas
Brittannias
Kouanes
Brown Holland
Checks and ftripej
Ticklenburg«
Oznahurgs
White (heetingi
Diaper
Brown rails
Umbrellas Brass kettles
Hair ribbons Scythes and straw knives
Black and white laces Toys afTorteU in boxes
Bell Holland Gin in pipes
London particular Madeira Wine
July 24
Wanted, to Hire,
A I.arge and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centra of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given ; to be taken for a year, or on
lease for a longer term. Inquire of th« Printer.
Oil. 17. eotf
ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, tfouth Wharves,
N. Cs* J. Frazer.
No. 95, Sontb Front Street.
dim.
JAMES COX,
JOHN NIXON & Co,
KufliaiudDuteh iailcloth
Writing, post, and print
ing paper
jpmch calf fkini
Prime madder
Shell'd Barley
Looking glarfTo
Hollow glals ware
Slates
Coffee mills
w&*htf
Young Hylon Tea.
40 chests of a superior quality—Also,
100 do. of Hyson,
Imported in the IVoodrop Sims, and for file by
the fubferiber, corner of Second and Pine
street.
November 6,
Merdecai Lewis, ♦
HAS FOR SALE,
At his Store, No. 25, Great Dock-street,
250 bales of Bengal Goods
Containing Baftas
Check and Stripes
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Mamoody
Calicoes
II boxes Irifli Linens
I do. Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
20 caniftcrs Java Sugtr
78 bags black Pepper
116 do. East India Ginger
100 casks roll Brimstone
7© pipes Madeira Wine
57 casks Gin
A quantity of sheathing Copper and Nails,
O&obtr 30. jaw3w
For Sale by the Subscriber,
White Plattillas
Crown HolUu4s
White Sheeting*
I>owlafi*es
Silesia berdered Handkerchiefs
Striped Siamoufes
Black Ribbons, No. 3 and 4
Glaf» Tumblers, and Looking Glafles, in
in cases, &c. &c.
November 6.
Samuel & Miers fifher,
ARE NOW OPENING,
At their Warehouse, No. 17, Dock Street, a frefh
alTortment of Woolen and other goods, suitable to
the season, received by the late arrivah from Eng
land.
They have mlfo far Salt.
Lisbon
Teneriffe ( .
Sherry, and ( " P'P">W l d». sad quarter cases-
Port Wines, J
Aborted queen's ware in crates, ate.
lothmo-13d. diwstawiw.
IT THE suss cRe ids, No. ai, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, Commander, from Bengal,
Cufifling of
Baftas, of various qualities & pricei
Coflaes Punjum Cloths
Sanahs #uzz y do.
Humhums Charcoitna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys Checks
Mafearagonges Pataa Hhkfs.
Ginghams Mulnaul do.
Guzzena* Bandannocs
Gurrahs Siflerfoy
Piniafcocs Choppa Romals
Salgatchya Sooty do,
Gillie Romals Persians of various colours
Mock Pulicats *
200 tons SUGAR
'90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings is' Francis.
the course of a few days, the PIECE
GOODS, cornpnfuijr the cargo of. th« fliip Ganges,
will be exposed for falc at that large commodious
Store, the northwest corner of Market and Fourth
(h-eets, whrre a bale of every fpecits of Goods will
l>e open. d Oi3. 31.
FOR SALE,
BV THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, firft quality, in
pipes
New-York quality, in pipe*
Lifban WINE, in pipes
CLOVES and*) r , . r .
NUTMEGS r °* thc latelt ,m P ortatlon » mboxes
daw.
Spanifli Wcigl, m Bales, fuitablc for Hatters.
Witlings & Francis,
Penn-ftreet, No. n
w&stf
Nov. f.
J aft arrived,
From Port-au-Prince, and for Sale by the fubferi-
. bcrs, No. 21, Penn-ltreot,
641 h«glheads,"\
(Prime Coffee
646 bag* J
o«. »s.
LANDING,
From on board the (hip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, fr®m London,
60 toas of the belt clean Russia
HEMP
60 calks of bottled BROWN STOUT.
For Sale by the fubfcribert, No. 21, Pcun-ftreet
Wtilings & Francis.
ra. 31
FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK,
No. 55, the corner of Chefnut and Front streets,
A large quantity of Clocks and
Watches. Also, a general assortment of Tools,
Eiles and Material, confifling cf Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and forge work; Bells, clock i.&d watch Dials,
Springs, Hands, Glades, Puixicc Stone, Emery,
Rotttn Stone, Cat Out; bench, {land and tail
Vices; Turns, Pliers,Chains,Seals, Keys, &c. &c.
* # a Apprentices Wanted.
nevemher 3.
REMOVAL.
Maurice Moynihan,
INFORMS his friends and tke public, that he
has removed his Store of China, Glals, Queens
Ware, and Dry Goods, from No. 81 North Se
cond, to No. 71 North Seventh Street, north east
corner of Cherry Alley, where he solicits the fa
vor ofhis former customers.
N. 3. Crates put up wkh .wre at the (horteft
otice
♦ noveeubor »;
C. Hai'ght.
entf
Coiias
Gurrahn
MoragugurgeCi
Tooksry
George Pennock.
eodtw
FOR SALE,
Willings iff Francis.
fSrtutf
Insurance Company of North
America.
The Stockholders ar* informed, that a meet
ing is to lie held, by ad|ou. nment, at the Com
pany s Office, i n Front Street, on Monday next
the I,3th ir.fi. at 12 o'clock.
Eben. Hazard, Sec'ry.
Nov. 9
Landing this day,
From on board th. schooner Two Friends, Dan«
le! Crawley, Matter,
1 a pipes RUM,
•FOR SALE BY
George Latimer Ssf Son.
tiovgmher 9. ** j
*VR SALE, Br
Joseph Anthony S3 9 Co.
No. 5, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Bra«dy, id* and id
proof, just landed
250 bales ot Bourbon cotton of a fupsrior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bale»
Bourbon Indigo of the firll quality
H 'gh proof Jamaica ipiriti
Old London particular Madeira wineln pipes 8c
do. market
New Englarifl rum in hogftieads
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes
Claret in cases
Spermaceti candles andftrain'd oil
Prime Boston beef
Choke Halifax Salmon in barrels and half bar^ft
D». Herring in da do
Best Boston Mackarel in barrels of the fall fare.
New-England tow l : *«ii
A few toifs of Ruflia cordage
Ruflia fi.ath<:r beds
Clover and Timothy feed in :aik»
Long whals-bone
No. i, 2, and 3, Boston fail duck
A few clefts firlt quality Hyson tea
Carolina rice in whol* and half tiercej and
An invoice of Dutch heitow glift ware.
November 8,
Philadelphia, 03. 24th, 1797.
ALL pcrions deGrous to coi.trid to furnifh Ra
± X. tionj and Quarter Matter's Store«, during tha
n a m ' 79 • thc troo P s Philadelphia, Fort
Mifflin, on Mud Mand, Carlisle and Reading er
any of them, are desired to deliver their proposals.
UD r a sealed cover, ob or before the loth No
vember next, to
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
The Rations to tonjtjl of
I pound Flour or Bread
I pound Beef, or 3 4 of a pound of Pork
i gill Rum, Brandy or Whi&ey
1 lb. Candles
» lb. Soap /
% quarts Vinegar f erery hundred ratios*
I quart Salt J
Wharton and Lewis,
HAVE FOR SALE,
At their Store and Inflirance Office for Aippmr
No. ri 5, South Frent-flreet, '
Jamaica Rum, 4 th proof, •> entitled to
Ahcant Brandy, ift & *4j>roof j dfawback.
Madeira Wine, and
few hogflieads of Juniper Berriea.
Ofloher ji,
FOR SALE,
By the Subscriber, at hit Store, No. 7j, Sonth
Water-street,
A general aflortment of China
Ware
Black and coloured Satgfhs
Do. do. Lntcftrings
Do. d». Handkerchiefs
Do. do. sewing Silks
Imperial and Hyson T<a«
Long and ftiort Nankeens
Quick Silver, in tub«
Holland Gin, in pipes
AfTortcd C[afs Ware, in cases
White and brown Havanna Sagart, in boJtt
Moliffes, in hogflu-arii
St. Croix Rum and Sugar, in do.
London particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga M/inerf, in quartsr cbDu
Red, yellow and palu Barks, in chcfU
Logwood, &c. fi^c,
«w. 7- —tu&Uw
Landing,
From on board the ftiip Edward, at Walnut*
ftrset Wharf,
London particular Madeira Wine,
of a fupcrior quality, For Sale by the fubferiber.
Robert Andrews.
eotf
novcmbcr 3,
For sale by the Subscriber,
No. 89, jth Third street,
A few calks of high proof Brandy
60 Tierces frdh Rice
40 Boies of chocolate '
A large quantity of afloited window glafi, and
100 pieces fail cloth, Ne. 1 to S
Rareni Duck, Mace and Gum Senegal.
Samuel Breck, Jun.
N. B. .An excellent Compting House to let on
Rolls'* wharf. 6teod Nov. 1.
N 0 1 I C E.
The holders of certificates of a
loan to tUe exiled citizens of th« State ef South Ca
rolina and Georgia, under an a<st of Congress
July, 1781, are informed, that by lodging the sam«
with George Simpfon, Calhier of the Bask of th»
United States, they will be enabled ts receive pay
ment of principal and intereit, asfoon as the certi
ficates can he forwarded to Charleston for lettle
ment, and »rd«rs received for their discharge.
November I.
• 15 Dollars Reward.
RAN-AW AY from the Subfctiber, en the 19th
inft. an apprentice Lad, named JOSEPH
BftK.NET, by trade a paper-maker; about 19
years of age, five feet seven or eight inches high,
of a light complexion,, tics his hair. Had on, and
took foith him, acaftor hat, half "worn, one brown
mixture cloth »oatee, new,'one light do. half
one frriped velvet waistcoat, with blue
cloth backs, one do. with fuftian backs, and sun
dry other thin clothes. It is proUible he. will ehanga
his clothes", as lie took a number with him.
Any person apprehending said apprentice, and
securing him so that I can get him again, ihall re
ceive the above reward", and reafonaile charges if
brought home.
I.over Mcrion townfliip,
Mo itgouery county.
October 30.
['Volume XII
<?»w,
&fftrgtbN
sots
JOSEPH SIMS.
PETER BECHTEIi.
V 3w.For Sale, by the Package,
For c*(h, or good notes at lixty or ninety day*,
viz. p
Eook and Jaconet Muilms plain
ftfipes, and Checks' I ,\,T o rtid in SAn
do. do. Tamboured } packages. r
do Litlies handkerchiefs, & I 0 Vie f
gentlemen's neck do. J and
Jaconet chin'z moflin for hnm*. 1 ano the eft a s
Indit- mvk-t, Full.cote and linen handkerchiels,
for do. do printed do. do. common purple and /fy
chintz (hawls.
The above goods entitled to driwWk on ex- jjuti
p. 'tAtitin. h Iso a few fcotcb earnbtieks jnd an st
aCToi tmeiit of toiiflin by the piece. du'
The whole of the above being a consignment of
from the manufa&urers in Britain- ( On a
To be seen at William Blackbuß.n s
Office, No. 64, South Second Street.
■Nov. ft. inwth -
Walker & Kennedy,
No. 73, South Front Street,
H AVF FOR SALt,
100 Hogftieads of prime Georgia Tobaceo,
ALSO,
50 Pipes of Prandy, On
10 Pipes qf old Port Wine>
Ofl. 17. " _ «***
POYNTF.LL's
Paper Hangipgs Manufaftory,
No. 70, Chefnut-ftreet,
Where he b is for Sale,
AVI'RY extensive llock, of every colour, and
of the molt approved pattern!., fuliable for
every-part of a hr.use, with great variety of bor- _
d-rrs to suit. :
ALSO
A han-'fome assortment of the moil faftiionable
siivi r Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
very best p'ain Green and plain Blue,
Vi'h Pannel Papers and a rich variety of Borders.
November I. eo6t .
C'locks and Watches,
Of every description, opening for Sale, by j
EPHRAIM CLARK,
'it. bis A r e<w Sbfp, Corner of
MARKET and FRONT STREETS.
—ALSO —
An exterfive and general alTortment of
Tools, File 3, and Materials.
CONSISTING °» B
Clotk Movements ami Clock Dials, eight day
an j thirty hours cast brass, forged work and Pin
ions BctUs Hands, Cat Gut, screw and draw j
Plates Turkey Stones, Pumice, Em«ry and Rot
ten Stone, Springs and Glares, Chains, Keyi, Seals
&.c Sic. Spring and (landing Clocks.
o eotf
Oct. 17* *
From Marseilles.
THE CARGO
Of the Swedish barque Guftavus Adolphus.from
Marseilles, conClling of the following articles,
is rUfcherginfc at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
sale bv the fubfetibers
BRANDY, well flavored, of a, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hog<head«
D'rtin, in cases
Trontigniac Wine, in cases ef jo battles
Olive Oil, ef a superior quality, in baflccts of 6
and i» bottle«
Caper*
Olives
Almonds
Dry Verriigreaf#
Writing Paper ,
Umbrellaa (Silk) of 28, 30 and 3» ineliea
TafFeties , , ...
Long and fiiort white Kid Gloves for W omen
Silk Stockirga . . fc .
Handkerchiefs, in imitation ot Madratt
Artificial Flowert and Garlands
Ostrich Feathers
Gibbons j
Perfumery
■Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatam
Manna in forts
Cream Tartar. ' __, .. .
BENJAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANDREWS.
> September »7- cot^
A Negro Man.
T?OR SALE, the unexpired me (four years)
f ofa (lout, healthy, adive egro Man. He
is by trade a Cooper, was brought up when a boy
to tha farming business, is a good ploughman, un
derftandsthe care end management of h»rfe«, and
is a good driver He hhs lately been employed in
pain'ing a new house aad paints well—he is good
tempered,and believed to be very honest, fold part
ly for v ant t)f employ,but more for being adduc
ed to liquor—For terms apply to No. I», Dock
Jireet, r.itar Spruce street. '
Nov. 6. . j
To be Sold,
A Valuable Plantation,
OF upwards of One Hundred Acres of Land,
well watered, in a healthy situation, about
seven miles ftorn this City ; the buildings may be
made to accommodate a large family, at a mode
rate expense, and poffcfTion had in a few weeka.
Part »f the purchase-money being paid, a reason
able credit will be allowed / >r the remainder.
Enquire of the Printer,
iiovember 3 mwftf
Imported inthefhipMANCHESTER,
Benjamin Mailer,
From Bourdeaux, and for sale by the subscriber,
No. 11 Walnut Street.
Bonrdeaux Brandy ~1
t Irish market claret in cases ( Eiuitkd to
Medoc wine, in do. | Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do. J
Thomas Murgatreya.
WHO HAS FOR SALE.
Sherry. Wine in pipes and quarter pflts
' Rota do. d°'
Pimento in bags
4000 bufheis Liverpool fait.
A ug. 24. tut&stf.
Philadelphia, 08. 13.
THE fnbfcribers inform their frisnds cullo
mers in town aud country,that their flores are now
' open in the city, and others are daily opening, and
that from the present appearance of the prevailing
disorder have reason to hope, their friends may
ftortly come to the city with perftd faf ty. By
several late arrivals, numbers have received frefh
fuppUes of GOODS.
Robert Smith tf Co. P W. Gtdluudet in C».
John Da-vis Co. Sitgfeai es isf Fi er.c/j y
Xeil! & Smith, George Dot/on,
Wdtberger and Smith, 7 bomas Rjerfon,
Alex Btljland and Co. T. It. HardMerg.
Jacob sperry and Co. John Smith and Co-
Owen Jona. Jtncs, Thomas Orr,
Keppele tSf Zantzirtger, William liar her C 57 Co.
Adam Zantzmger, Thomas Armat tf Son.
John fries, J- Miller, jun. and Co.
Benjamin &J. Jobnfon.
Oft. J4
Xlje ©alette. |p
"" which
PHILADELPHIA, ; ns th .
SATURDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER, 11. j That,
] iTi 01
'Tie following, amonp a frrcat variety of other impor- 1 eight,
and liecefTary art!(lrs of information, tftay be ftKtrd in ~, I>t i p.
that very rent and \feful pvbUftion "'7 be American , . .
Kefojiton and Annual RegiJUtby B. Davit, 68 ; >'
ABSTRACT. | an H U
Dutiej imposed, by an aot of Corjrefs on a'l | and e
Stamped vellum, parchment and payer, for and kelon
during the term of five years from the 311! day gt a te
of December, 1797, viz. , J n t h<
On a certificate of naturalization 5 80l«. _ , (
terfifcate if admfpon enrolment or re- and '
gil'trv of any cnmifellor, fnlicitor,( ICK J O H*. ve ''-'
attorniy, advocate or proflor in any f a s to
court of the United States _) f urel
letter patent tinder the seal oi the Uni-") , bv a
ted States, except for land granted > 4 dolls. J
for military fer'vices J I
certificate copy of any such letters patent, » do,ls. aft
tharter party, bottomry, or refponden "> t ( J o ;_ mcn
tial bond \
On a reteipl or difcharge on account"! ,
of a legacy left by will, Or other tefta
mcnt. ry instrument, or for any part may
of a personal estate divided by a lla- '25 G^S ' cers
tuteof diftrP tlitioD, the value where- tain
of is above fifty and not exceeding mcr
one hundred liollars J ■
where the value is above ico and rtJ P
. not exceeding 500 dollars J °f !
and fur every further sum of 506") j cal<
dollars, the additional sum of ) fhi[
pr'iry of insurance on a Ihip it vessel or {hal
goods going frem one diftri& to a > 15 c * ip •/
nothcr of the' United States j
e from theUnitedStatesto anyfpreig"^
poit, when the fumidfured doesnot >IS ct«. or ]
exceed 500 dollars j
'• when it does exceed joc dollars, r J d ° U to
an exemplification.wtth the seal
court other than what in furniftied ( m ''
for the.ufc of the United State?, or C tin
a ny paVticular (late J sue
y A bond, bill fugle or penal, foreign or inland bill of t J,
ex-chang;, any note for the fceunty of money,
according to the following scale, J*
dells, ct-. P e
For any fuut above to and not exceeding 100 16 re
100 so* *5
500 >ooo 50 al:
icoo 7J u (
But all bonds or note's payable at or within 60 days ,
ay {hall be fubjett only to two fifths of the duties 01
n " aforefaid. ' c
lW Bank nttei, ft
ot I Not exceeding 50 dollars at the rate of 3-3 th ai
L ' s I of a cent lor every dollar R
above 50 and not exceeding 100 ('ols. jo cts.
above 100 and not joodols. idol c
I above 500 a i.ols. ti
I The secretary of the treifury it authorised to cotri-
I pound with any bank of banks for the amount j
)m I of the flamp duties by rec-ivirg one per centum (
es I ontheamcunt of theannual dividend offuchbank.
f»r I protefl or other notarial a& 35 cts -
I —letter of except for pensions, or ") V
r I toobtain orfell warrantsfor lands^ran-> zi ets. t
J ° I ted as bounty for military fcrvices J v
J —certificate or debenture for drawbacks for ) t
leli than too doU. j
1 for joo and not exceeding •> 4 dolj '
' " I • »oee dols. j '
for more than 100 c dols. 3 J«ls. f
I —note or bill tf lading of goods exported ct> _ j
from one diftrift to another j j
ditto, to any foreign port, cti.
I An inventory for goods or effeils reguired"^
I bylaw (except where th«y are distrain- ( - octli '
ed for rent ur taxes, ot taken by an of- C J
6cer in a legal proeefs J •
netl I A certificate of afbirein any bank, above I j oc^s>
I ao and not exceeding 100 dols. )
above I 0» dollars aj cents '
I under »o dollars at the rate of 10 cents
for one hundred dols.
for ar y left sum the fame.
N. B. Legacies left by will of any part of a per-
I fonal estate to the wife, children rr grand children.
I or divided among them by ary flatuteof diftribu-
I tiors ; and recognisances, bills, bonds and other
. I obligations that (hall be made to the United States
I or any ftatc, arefree'frum (lu-y.
. I Allpoliciel of inf-rance fhal' be duly stamped and
I made out within the space of thrtedays at fartheft,
I under the penalty of twenty dollars for every of-
I fence. And all promiflory notes for the alTuratice
I of jhips or goods at sea or goicg to lea, in lieu of
I a policy, (hall be void,
ars) I Mlkindsof writing, relative te thehire orfrcight
He I of a Ihip, fnr the conveyance of money, goods or
boy I other effeifts (hall be deemed a charter party.
, un- I Every receipt for monej, in part or whole, of .
and I a legacy of a personal estate, to duty, ft a 1
:d in express therein the true sum that has been paid,
rood I under the penalty of twenty dollars: And every
p3rt- I receipt in fullihall bedeemed for thewhole amount
didl- I of the legacy, unless it appear that whatw?sp:>id
Dock I prsvioufly, if any, was acknowledged on (tamp
'I paper.
I Every aunfelltr, solicitor attorney, pro"or or
I advocate, before he (hall prof cute or deleud any
I aiflion in any court of the United States, (hall ta:te
I a stamped certificate of his adrtViffion from the
'' I clerk or proth»notary of the court. ,
.and, I T}le f uperT if ors 0 f t h<. revenue are empowered
I sjid required, upon the application of any person
ly , >e I for the fame, to f.amp any quantities or parcels, 01
°\ L I v * e " um ' parchment or paper, on his paying the du
e ' I ties rafpeflively directed.
afon- I Every person that (hall write or print any of the
I ijiltruments aforementioned en parchment, vellum
I or paper unstamped, or stamped with less duties
I ( w 'th intent to evade the law) (hall forfeit for ev
' ' I ciy ofifcn.ee 600 dollars.
ERj j Every clerk, officer or other person in a public
I office, who (hall be gni'.ty of the fame offence or
.. I with (lamps which he knows to be counterfeit, (hall
' ' I forfeit jOO dollars ; and the officer (hall forfeit his
I office.
I No instrument of writing whatever (fubjeil to
*° I duty) (hall be pleaded or given in evidence in any
ick. I court, unless it be duly (lamped—the offender fliall
I forfeit 10 dpllars for every such offence, over and
1 I abnve the dated duty.
1 Every person who (hall counterfeit the stamps,
I make use of or vend them knowing them to be
; I counterfeit, (ball be fubjeil to a fine of 1000 dol
| lars, and 7 years imprisonment.
AN ACT
tf. I t OF THE BRITISH PARLIAMENT,
" For carrying intoexeiution the Treaty of Am'tiy,
3" Commerce and Navigation, concluded
•'now I between his RJajeJly and the
United States of America.
ailing [4th July, 1797.]
1 nl gy f Concluded from TuefJay's Ga%cttf,)
frefh XVII. And whereas, by the said fifteenth
article of the treaty before mentioned, it is
■f C«- f ur ther agreed, that the British government
does reserve to itfelf the right of irtipoling
on American veflcls entering into the Britiih
ports in Europe, a tonnage duty equal to
that which shall be payable by Britiih veflels
in the ports of Ariierica : And whereas it is
' Co. thought expedient for the present to,exercife
' Son ~ the power reserved in the said article so far
ut < " o ' only as relates to imposing a tonnage duty
on American (hips entering the ports of his
majesty's dominions in Europe, equal to the (hall ha
of the duty payable in the ports'of the the fin:
iSited States by British (hips beyond that provide
which is payable by American (hips enter- and enl
inn- the fame ports ;be it therefore enafted, teenth
That, from and after the fifth day of Janua- withfta
ry, one thousand seven hundred and ninety- and ta
eight, there (hall be raised, levied, collefted, intents
: and paid, unto and for the use of his majef- fame 1
' ty, his heirs and fucceflbrs, a tonnage duty 1 , taken
|at and after the rate of two (hillings of good this a
' and lawful money of Great-Britain, for each notwil
j and every ton burthen of every ship or vessel ture,
I belonging to the inhabitants of the United whatf
States of America, coraing or arriving with- j for 01
in the limits of any port of Great-Britain, gagen
and that the tonnage of every fuc'a ship or j X}
vessel (hall, iit cafe of any, doubt or dispute j tick c
as to the fairie, be ascertained by aduiea- | Britif
furemerit, in the made and manner direfted territ.
by an aft pafied in the twenty sixth year of , meric
[ his present majesty's reiga, intituled " an domi
• I aft for the further increase and encourage- to he
mcnt of (hipping and navigation. j tenor
XVIII. And be it further enafted by thert
the authority aforefaid, That it fliall and fame
may be lawful to and for any officer or offi- j mam
cers of his majesty's euftoms tP stop and de- . ther
tain every ship or vefTel liable to the pay- 1 so f;
mcnt of the said duty, until the said duty is j the 1
paid as aforefaid ; and in cafe payment there-, gard
of (hall not be made for the space of three the
calender months after the arrival of such nem
Ihipor veflel at any port in this kingdom, it of (
(hall and may be lawful to and for the com- pern
miffioners of his majesty's euftoms in Eng- said
land and Scotland refpeftively, or any three fine
»■ or more of them, to cause such ship or vef- the
fel, and her masts, apparel, and furniture, of
to be (old publicly to the best bidder, and the
the produce thereat to be applied firft, to rica
the charge that (hall arise by such detention gra
andfale, next, to the said duty imposed by Sip
this aft, and the overplus to be paid to the faic
lCy ' J proprietor of such ffi'P or vessel, or other the
ct . person duly authorized by such proprietor to
16 receive the fame. hei
XIX. And be it further enafted by the ed
•5° authority aforefaid, That the tonnage duty pri
7S hereby imposed fliall be paid into the hands boi
of the proper officer of his majesty's cuf- for
toms, at the refpeftive ports or places where a£l
such duty (hall become due and payable, eej
•5 th and such duty (hall be under the manage- be
ment of the comniiffioners of his majesty's an<
j o '; euftoms in England and Scotland refpec- co
uols. tively. an
om- XX. And, to the intent that the said foi
OUDt duty may be answered and paid, be it fur- of
ther enafted by the authority aforefaid, tei
a " ts '' That no officer of his majesty's euftoms wl
whatever, or his deputy or clerk, at any of tit
the said ports or places in Great Britain,
where such duty (hall become due and paya- it
tol. ble, (hall, from and after the said jth day th
of January, 1798, take or receive any en- b}
'°' 9 ' try outwards, cocquet or report outwards, m
Jali. for any (hip or vessel liable or fubjeft to the fa
ct». said duty, nor (hall such (hip or veflel be w
fuffercd or permitted to depart from any ct
such port or place until the said duty (hall (11
be paid, pursuant to the tjireftions of this tr
c "' aft, to tht refpeftive colleftors or other 01
principal officers of his majesty's euftoms, t}
>cts. authorised to receive the lame, and until w
cecti t ' ie refpeftive master or owner of any such b
cents (hip or v'e(fel, fubjeft to the payment of ai
such duty, (hall (hew to such refpeftivy of- tl
ficer a receipt for the fame. o:
XXI. And be it further enafted, That b
fribu- a " 'he monies from time to time arising by r<
other the ftveral new and additional duties by this n
State» aft imposed as aforefaid, (the neceflary c
charg«s of raising and accouraing for the it
•theft fame refpeftively excepted) (hall, from a:
ry of- to time, be paid into the receipt of g
ranee his majesty's exchequer at Weftminftcr, and ii
ieu of the said money fo'paid in as aforefaid fliall il
be carried to and made part of the confo- p
>d#or l'd ,te d fund. u
XXII. And whereas, by the 43th arti- r
ile, of .cle of the said treaty of amity, commence a
,ft all and navigation between his Britannic ma- t
jefty and the United States of America, li
Timmt 11 ' s > among other thing*, provided, that li
s p; i<i the vessels belobging to the citizens of the g
itamp United States of America, fliall be admit- f
ted and hospitably received in all the Tea- c
° T or ports aHd harbours of the Britifli territories 9
1 ta'ie Indies, and that the citizens of t
m t he the fajd United States may freely carry on f
a trade Between the said territories and the v
werwt s a id United States, in all articles of which c
person t jj C exportation or,importation refpeftively, |
hcd°- t0 or rora t^le territories, (hall not be a
entirely prohibited ; and it is further pro- 1
of the vided, that the said trade fha.l be carried pn j
rellum under the regulations contained in the said j
diities an ; c j e . au d it is expressly agreed that the 1
° r Cv " vessels of the United States fliall riot carry i
public anv of the articles exported by them from j
nee or the said British territories to any port or ]
it,fhall place, except to Tome port or plate in A- 1
feit hii mer ; ca w here the fame fliall be unladen, 1
jedt to regulations (hall be adopted
in any by both parties, as (hall from time to time 1
er fliall be fobnd neceflary to enforce the due and '1
xr and faithful observance of the above recited sti
pulation ; be it therefore enafted, That it
, t" h't' (hall and may be lawful for the (hips belong
oodol- ing to the citizens of the United States to
carry on the said trade to the British terri
tories in the East Indies, and to import in
to, and export from the said territories, all
articles of which the importation or ex
sfmity portation refpeftively to or from the said
j e j ' territories, (hall not be entirely prohibited, in
the manner and with the privileges and ad
vantages, and fubjeft to the reftriftions and
regulations coatained and expressed in the
said 13th article of the said treaty of amity,
commerce and navigation, any law to the
teenth contrary notwithstanding, and particularly
i, it is notwithstanding any provisions contained in
•nment a n aft passed in the twelfth year of the reign
poling „f his late majesty king Charles the second,
British entitled " All aft for the encouraging and
[ual to increasing of (hipping and navigation."
1 vessels XXIII. And be it further enafted, That
as it is a ll done, or engagements entered into
xercife by the fubjefts of the United States, or
: so far 0 f his majeftg, in pursuance of the said
e duty thirteenth article, fliall be deemed and tak
iof his cn to be lawfully done, provided the fame
(Kail have bsen dons ov entered into ftsee
the final ratification of the said treaty, and pQ
provided the fame might have been done I
and entered into agreeably to the said thir-1
tecnth article, any law to the contrary not- j
withftaiuling, and the fame (hill be deemed I
and taken to in all refpefts, and to all los I
intents and purposes whatsoever, as if the I of
fame had beon done, entered into, or had I
taken place fubfcciucnt to the palling of I "
this aft, any prohibition to the contrary 1 take
notwithstanding ; and no penalty, forfei- I fufe
ture, or dif*bility, of dny kind 'or nature I dins
whatsoever, (hall be incurred or sued for, I callt
for or 011 account of any such afts or en- j felv
gagemcnts. I w ' l '
j XXIV. And whereas, by the ninth ar-I alar
' tick of the said treaty, it was agreed vbut 1 ttor
j British fubjefts, who then held lands in the j tht
territories of the said United States, and A- j
r merican citizens who then held lands in the I pre
i dominions of his majesty, (hould continue I wh
- to hold them according to the nature and j yoi
i tenor of their refpeftive states and titles I ip«
r thertein, and might grant, fell, or devise the I
fame to whom they (hould plea r e, in like |mi
- j manner as if they were natives, and that nei- I m<
- ' ther they nor their heirs or afiigns (honld, j foi
- 1 so far as might refpeft the said lands and I pe
s ' the legal remedies incident thereto, be re- 1 lie
' garded as aliens ; be it therefore enafted by | be
:e the authority aforefaid, That all lands, te- J ed
h nements and hereditaments, in the kingdom J fr<
it of Great Britain, or the territories and de- I m
\- pendencies thereto belonging, which on the I m
5- said twenty-eighth day of Oftober one thou- | lo
:e find seven hundred and ninety-five (being J w
f- the day of the exchange of the ratifications I at
e, of the said treaty between his majesty aud I ui
id' the said United States) were held by Ame- I ti
to rican citizens, (hall be held and enjoyed, | oi
>n granted, fold and devised, according to the 0
sy stipulations and agreements contained in the J |(
he f&id article ; any law, custom or usage to i'
er the contrary notwithstanding. i r(
to XXV. Provided always, That nothing ja'
herein contained (hall extend, or be cpliftru- j ei
he ed to extend, to give any right, title, or r<
ity privilege to any person, not being a natural
ids born fuhiett of this realm,-which such per- t<
.if- foil would rot have been entituled to if this a
etc aft had not been made, bther than and ex- C
ile, cept such rights, titles, andprivileares as (hall > s
gc- be necessary for thctrue and faithful perform- u
y's ance of the stipulations in the said article 11
ec- contained, according to the true interest o
and meaning thereof, or to g.ve to any per- g
aid son, not being either a natural born fubjeft t
ur- of this realm, or a citizen of the said Uni- (
lid, ted States, any right, title or privilege, to, *
>ms which such person wpuld not have been en- r
of titled if this aft had not been made. 1
iin, XXVI. And whereas by the said treaty f
ya- it i» further agreed, that his majesty and '
day the United States, on mutual requisitions '
en- by them refpeftively, or by their refpeftive :
rds, ministers or officers authorized to make the 1
the fame, will deliver up to justice all persons <
[be who, bein* charged with murder or forgery '
any committed within the jurifdiftion of cither, '
hall (hall (eek an afylura within any of the couti- '
this tries of the other, provided that this fliall
:her only be done on such evidence of criminali
ims, ty as, according to the laws of the place
mtil where.the fygisive or person so charged fliall
uch be found, would jutlify his apprehension
of and commitment for trial, if the offence had
of- there been committed, and that the expence
of such apprehension and delivery (hall be
'hat borne and defrayed by those who make the
by requisition and receive the fugitive ; he it c
this nafted by the authority aforefaid, That in _
rary cafe requisition (hall at .any time be made,
the in pursuance of and according to the laid
rom article, for the delivery of any person char
t of ged with murder oi forgery,committed with
and in the jurifdiftion of the said United State#,
fliall it (hall be lawful for one of his Majesty's
,nio- principal secretaries of (late, by warrant
under his hand and seal, to (ignify that such
arti- requisition has been so made, and to require
ietce alljuftices of the peace, and other magif
ma- and officers of justice, to govern them
rica, felvea accordingly, and to be aiding and af
that lifting in apprehending the. perum so char
the ged, and committing such person, for the
[mit- purpose of being delivered up to justice, nc
fea- cording to the provifior.s in the said article,
ories and thereupon it fliall be lawful for any juf
is of tice of the peace, or other person having
y on power to, commit for trial persons charged
the with offences agaiuft the laws of this king
hich dom, to examine jipon oath any person or
vely, persons touching the truth of such charge,
>t be and upon fuel} evidence as according to the
pro- laws of this kingdom, would juftify the ap
:d on and commitment for trial of the
said perfoß so charged, if the offence wherewith
t the he fliall be so charged had been committed/
:arry in this kingdom, it (hall be lawful for such
from justice of the peace, or other person- having
*t or power to commit as aforefaid, to commit
n A- the person fa charged to his Majesty's gaol,
aden, there to remain, until delivered pursuant to
>pted flich requisition a 9 aforefaid, and thereupon
time it (hall be lawful for one of his majesty's fe
z and "cretaries of date, by warrant under his hand
d fti- and seal, to order the person so committed
nat it ta be delivered to such person pr perfontas
long- (hall be authorized by the said United States
;es to to receive the person so committed, and con
terri- vey such person to the dominions of the said
rt in- United States, to be tried for the offence
s, all with which such person fliall be so charged ;
>r ex- and if the person so charged (hall escape
: said out of any custody to which he (hall be corn
ed, in raitted as aforefaid, it fliall be lawful to re
d ad- take such person in the fame manner as any
is and person charged with any offence again ft the
i the laws of thi? kingdom may be retaken upon
mity, an escape, so that such person so charged as
:o the aforefaid may be effectually delivered up to
ularly justice, according to the true intent and
led in meaning o.f the said article of the said treaty,
reign XXVII. And be it further enafted, that
cond, this aft fliall continue in force, so long as
g and the said treaty between his Majesty and the
United States of America (hall continue in
That force, and no longer.
d into The Medical Le&ures
CS ' V r In the Univcrlity of Pennsylvania, are pnft
e poned until the last Monday in November
d tak- next,'
: sam« Oflober 14. t aaw^w.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
FRANCE.
SPEECH
OF MkRLIN, AT HIS INSTALMENT AS ON £
OF THE DIRBCTORSjTO H ISCO L LE AGU E6.
•' Citizen l)\r:Sors,
" In the moment in which I am to
take a share in your labours, a thousand con
fufed fefitiments aiife in my wind : in or
dinary eircumftances the duties which I am
called on to exeeute are so important of them- .
selves, that it is difficult to think of thqm
without uneafiiefs. What then mtift be my
alarm, when I consider them in all the addi
tional fplendpur wliiuh you have added to
thsm.
" Flattery can, without doubt, never ap
proach the circle of, the directory ; but
when truth does you honour, he who is to be
your colleague ought to be fuffered to
I'penk it.
"In the firft moments of your high ad
ministration you found the republic in the
molt deplorable situation :—lts financial re
sources appeared entirely txhaufted ; a pa
per without any value represented the pub
lic fortune ; all the arms of induftiy were
bound ; all the channels of commerce block
ed up : some powers had been detached
from the coalition, but it still wore a for
midable appearance, and 'fcemed to have
made up, by extraordinary efforts, for the
loss of some of its leading members. Civil
war raged in the departments of the east ;
i and, io the interior, the public spirit, grad
-1 ually debased, threatened republican inftitu
. tions with almost certain ruin ; the enemies
, of the people were become their magistrates ;
: the sword of national justice had given way
. to the poniard of revenge ; the laws were
i impotent, and their organs mute ; emigrant
rebels, and men condemned to death, had
r aftually taken theii feats in the senate ; the
- emigrants reigned in the republic, and the
r republicans were forced to emigrate.
t l " Things were in this situation when you
took on your hands the leins of authority,
is and fee what is their present situation.
Commerce has resumed its aftivity, induflry
Q is again animated, and the earth has given
i- up the treasures which midruft hid buried
le in it. Abundance every where prevails in
ft our cities ; the arts again smile at their re
r- generation ; civil is extinguished ; on
ft the Rhine, on the Adige, on the banks of
i_ Oglio, our triumphant armies have every
to. where -carried with them vi&ory, and victo
n- ry has di&ated peace to the expiring coali
tion ; the fruitful feeds of liberty have been,
ty scattered over the neighbouring countries,
d their reproduction and their multiplication
ns will be your work. You hare repressed the
ve faftious, and on comparing with our former
ie troubles, the situation in which we have Ur
ns ed for the two last years, every man who .
ry has a sense of justice, even though he has
;r , not subdued his prejudices'to his real inter
h- eft, is forced to do you homage, and to a
all gree, that you have terminated the revo
lt- lution.
ce " Your triumphs, however, citizens direc
all tors, your courage, the good which you
un have done,and that which youhave attempt
ad ed to do, have all of them been nearly ren
ice dered of no avail, by the attempts of the
be conspirators whom you have overturned.—
he Oh (hame ! oh infamy ! oh accumulated
e- baseness and meanness ! The friends of
ir, kings were become the legislator? of the re
le, public ; traitors weYe engaged in dtlibera
aid tions with you ; they would have fold the
ar . honor of their country, the {nterefts of the
th- state, and the blood of all patriots to a
es, ft ranger ; and liberty and the republic would
y's soon have been at an end ; but you were at
tnt your.posts, and liberty and the republic were
ch saved. 1
ire " rwmqrtal day of the 4th of September,
-If- you will be famous among the days of the
m- French revolution ; and it is to you that
as- the whole gfory of it belongs. What, with
er- out the a (Tift allce of .the executive riireftory
the fnd its faithful representatives, driven by
oc _ violence from the tribune, defame 4by ca
-515-, lumny, and impotent even by their virtue,
u s. what, I fay, what could good citizens do in
jng oppofitiontothofefanguinary and abominable
red laws* which forbade the most pacific meet-
H g- ings, which armed against them' infamous
or eut-throats, which recalled emigrants to eve
ge, ry P art France, which deprived the pur
thc chafers of national property of their inoft
ap- legitimate acquisitions ? The legislative bo
the dy is now become republiean ; laws are come
rJth to confolcj to secure, and to encourage citi
tedi zens ; difurder, 110 aft of violence lias d. -
ac h based your viftory ;it has b<-*n pure as your
ixig intentions ; the 4th of September might
m j t have been a day of battle, it has turned out
aol, a day of rejoicing.
t. to " Honour then is due to your wisdom
pon and your courage ; honour to the repvefen
fe - tatives of the mtion,. who have felt, that
and between your ccnfe and theirs there was no
tted difference ; and honour to you, the brave
ias companions of Buonaparte and of Hoche,
a tes Angereau, and Chejin, names dear to re
:on- publicans and to liberty ; and to ,yqu« i.i
faid trepid soldiers, so worthy of the chiefs who
rnce command you, and so worthy to obey tli'ejc ;
ed ; honour to you, ye conquering republican..,
:ape virtuous ai.d proud people, you who (,ave
on, replied with so much wisdom find modera
, re _ tion to the vile calumnies of tii'ifetwfro were
any not worthy of knowing you ; you have
the ftewn yourselves calmly ttrong, and coolly
,p on confident of your power. Your eoctnirs
das have felt it : nor were you ever more terri.
? to ble to them than in that rnajeftic mcfr
and which left your energy to, be imagined,'and
aty. dispensed you from the neceflity of Iht\\.
that ing it
tas "To me, citizens directors, it. is highly
the honourable to have soon to embrace as ce'-
le in leagues those whom my country now hails
as its fayiours. It is too, particularly agree
" able to me, to recollcft the firft moments rn
„ which together we brandilhed the firft nrn s
Tiber f° r t^ie catife of liberty. Yes, from the firft
dawn of the revolution, while'one of ymi
nr. was laying the foundation by gcujrpt: f .crifices, and by a noble difintereftcdnefj for
the fate which was one day to call to
concur in the foundation of th: republic,and
to become one of its firfl; magistrates, I had
the honour of fitting with his two other col
leagues in that afTembly, which began so
much without aceomplifhing any thing ; and
with a ju!t degree of pride I fpealt it, the
people then considered lis as their firmed
friefie*:—-wc have juftified, and we will juf
tifv that opinion.
" Yes, citizens directors, I am prouS of
being joined to you—of being able to fee at
home those qualities wlvich diftSngtiilh vou
at magistrates ; ns ycur private virtues, that
mild philanthropy which culture of
fciencc and the simple tafl'e for nature, the
attendant on a lofty and sympathetic foul, in
one ; in another, that firmnefs of charaitef,
that rapidity of thought, thai unshaken ar
dor, which is never (lopped by obstacles,
and which fees in difficulties only the means
of glory and a source of triumphs ; and
sbroad, that brilliant coarage and those affa
ble manners which temper the exercise of
authority, and command attachment while
they ensure refpcft.
" What ffir.ll I fay to you, citizens diiec
tors, fcnd whtit can I bring into this society
of virtues and talents ! A zeal, industry, and
unbounded d votion, and constant efforts to
detcrve your efltem, by labouring, like you,
for the republic.
" Repub'ic ! May this facrcd name—
this nanu which ruffians have dared to tar
nish, become the objeft of universal esteem.
May it* institutions be honored—May it be
beloved by its children at it is feared by its
enemies ; mr.y the intimate union of its cbief
magiil'ratts, and their unanimous agreement
with ItgifUtors, bind still more strongly the
bonds which it has attempted to divide ; and
may the coalition of all means and of all ef
forts at length realize that vvi(h which is in
the bofvim of all good men—that of the.
tranquillity of the republic within, and
peace with its external enemies, honorable,
solid, aril fiicb as the innumerable triumphs
which I fee on every fide of us, point out to
us to require.
" Full of these fentimcnts, and convinced
of the receflity of adding to the convidtion
wjiich you already rnuft feel of their finceriy,
the additional pledge of a solemn oath, which
is nothing to a rascal, but a religious duty
to an honcfl man ; and in order to prove my
inviolable submission to the laws of the re
public,
" 1 swear hatred to royalty and anarchy
and attachment nnd fidelity to the conftitu
tiois of the year."
Citizen Francois de Neufchateau then
said,
" CITIZEN DIRECTORS,
" After what citizen Merlin haa said, I
cduld only repeat expressions which I (hould
be fearful of weakening. Thtfe fentimcnts
have been in my heart since my firfl infancy.
Brought up in the school of philosophy, the
revolution' found me ready to embrace its.
dofkritie, and to maintain it. lam well con
vinced, that a citizen ought to live and die
for the republic, that he owes himfelf entire
ly and without reserve to it, and that it is
in tfce republic that we ought to plape and
consecrate, in some fort, all our wiflies and
all cur hopes. This profeffion of faith being
also yours, citizen direftors, I am happy in
partaking yoiir labors, as I entertain the
fartne ideas and have (hared the fame gangers.
It ir> a flattering circntnftance to me to find
here three diflinguifhed members of the con
stituent aflembly, and one of my colleagues
in the legislative aflembly, with whom I re
member to have run other dangers on the
icth of August, 1792. I am penetrated
BS"you are with this immutable principle (of
which the 4th of September affords a sub
lime application) that the best means of
maintaining a government and of rendering
it liable, is to bring it back constantly to
the principles 011 which it has been founded.,
It is therefoae neeeflary that France and its
government (hould conftanth^ return to re
publican principles.
" A witness of the purity of you inten
tions and of the greatness of your courage,
and admiring those virtues at this great con
jutl&urc, lam happy in the choice which
"eonftitutes me a member of the executive di
rectory, and which unites me intimately with
the favionrs of my country. It is with joy,
then, and from my heart, that I take before
you the oath of hatred to royalty and anar
chy, and of inviolable attachment to the re
public and of fidelity to the constitution of
the 3d year."
The president of the dire&ory replied to
them,
' 1 « Citizens Colleagues,
" is agreeable for me to be the organ
of the executive directory, to express to you
how happy they are to fee you among the
number of their members.
" They have at length pafled those days
of anguish in which mistrust and discord pre
vailed its our circle. The most agreeable
confidence is abo\it to prevail among us, or
rather already pievails, and nothing can dis
turb it. Whatever difference may be in our
pleasures snd in our habits, our harmony
will not be lqfs perfeft. We all know one
another, alid we arc all convinced that each
of in energetically wishes for v the republic,
and the cortftitntiou of the 3d year, which
is the pledge of it; that every one of us is
desirous of feeing virtne prevail, of infpinog
all hearts with the love of the country: that
1 very one of us, in (hort has no other ambi
tion than that of feeing France free and
happy within, and great and honourable
without,
"'May this affe&ing agreement serve as
, n example to all Frenchmen—May all re
jublicans rally, and the lhades of opinion
l) 0 longer render them the sport of ariitocra
-y & fanaticifm —may terrorism, which one
party affeft to fear, and which the other
would really render terrible, in order to drive
us into the arms of Royalty, no lodger serve
as a pretence t» (top the progress of public
spirit may government meet with confi
dence, and the [French pfrfuade thcmfelve*
that this dreadful fyftera will never revive—
may those violent men, -.vhofe escefles cre
ated perhaps as many enemies to the revol
ution as the deftru&iori of abuses, be sensi
ble for onct\ that energy of foul, and vigor
of means are adverse both to oppreflion and
atrocity; while on the other hand, weak
and tinftid men may henceforth cease to cal
umniate decided republicafis—may. they
know that wisdom is as far removed from
weakness and pusillanimity, as from exeefs
and cruelty ? in a word, may all parties u
nite themselves on truly patriotic principles,
by the principle of those who know how to
unite great wisdom of conduft with great
vigor of charafter, an ardent passion forjuf
tice, with an unbounded attachment to li
berty: an almost restless vigilant* forth#
support of the republic, with a great love
for peace; and a humanity and compafiion,
with the severity necessary to rep'refs v'ce
in general, and the enemies of liberty in
particular.
" It is by this agreement of all parties,
by their union with the friends of liberty,
vvhofe true charafler we hav# delineated,
and by the praftical effefls of their maxinas,
that we lhall fee the republic conf»lidated,
and the constitution of the third year
strengthened beyond the pofiibility of being
shaken.
" To this objeft all our wishes and all
our labours tend: and we never thought
our hopes better founded than since we have
known who were the afTociatcs, and whom
the wifdoin of the legiflativj body had cho
sen for us."
A new difcHat-ge of artillery announced
the installation of the new directors.
A meflapje was then sent to eaclv of the
councils, advising the-m of the installation »f
citizens Merlin and Francois (de Neufcha
teau.)
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, November 10.
SCOTLAND.
Considerable riots have taken place in
that part of the Britilh'dominions in conse
quence of the enforcement of the Military
Aa. They have ' however been quieted,
as will appear from the following s
At a general meeting of the lord lieu
tenant of the county of Hiddrnton, and
his deputies, held at Hiddenton the 7th
day of September, 1797.
The lord lieutenant and his deputies take
this fi'rft opportunity of their being eon
venedin a general meeting, toexprefs their
warmed acknowledgments to the military,
both officers and privates, who were em
ployed under the civil power, in restoring
peace and good order in the late unhappy
and atrocious riot at Tranent, upon Tues
day the 29th of August last, fur their long
and patient forbearance at the commence
ment of the riot, and for their t«rnperate>
firm, and manly conduct in suppressing it:
and the meeting, without detrafting from
the merits of the other officers and privates
employed on that occasion, beg leave to
exprcf* their marked approbation of the
conduA of captain Tinlay, of the Cinque
Ports cavalry, and of captain Price, of the
Pembrokeshire cavalry, for their judicious
conduft in that affair; and the meeting re
commend to the lord lieutenant to wait up
on lord HaWkefbui*y, the commanding of
ficer ef the Cinque Ports cavalry, to ex
press their fentimenti, to request that his
lordship will take the earliest and moll preper
mode of communicating these sentiments to
the officers and privates of his own corps,
and of convtying them to the commanding
officer of the Pembroke cavalry ; and for
the alacrity with which the detachment of
that corps marched to funport the laws and
the constitution of their 4 country.
TWEEDDALE,
Lord Lieutenant,
(Signed)
PAIIS NOT TRANQUIL
The Chouans of Paris do not yet consi
der themfelvea as subdued : on the Sth of
September, they-infulted the citizens at
the Theatre of Moliere, but they prudently
despised their provocations. Yederday, at
a tavern, the representative Lehardi, who
took such an aftive part in bringing about
the revolution of the 4th, was threatened
and attacked by twoChouam, who behaved
so ill that he was obliged to seize one of
them by the tollar, in order to eofiduft hirn
before a justice of the peace. But his com
rade having taken flight, he succeeded in
extricating himfelf, and got off. If the
police do not take care, the cut-throats
under the command of Pichegru will soon
revenge their general in disgrace, by destroy
ing those men who have been the mod ac
tive in overthrowing royalty.—Annales Po
litique!. •
PARIS, September 12.
PAPERS
Alluded to in the address of the council to
the departments and the armies.
The following papers were not stuck up,
but were printed and diftributcd :
(No. i.)
Extraft of the correfpondtnce seized at Le
Maitre's.
" Mr. Bayard, who will deliver this, is
sent by the Englilh ambaflador, but you
may place great confidence in him. Assist
him with your advice and otherwise—it is
for the good cause, and Mr. Bayard is a
true and ruyalift.
" I embrace you with all my heart.
" E. D. V."
(No. 2.)
" I am informed from Verona of the Bth,
but not by aperfon of the council, that the
king will leave that place fooOi Marlhal
de Ca dries and Mr. Flachlauden fay no
thing."
(No. 3.)
" The priests are aftive in the distribu
tion of the newspapers, and all for the love
of God.—This body of men are become
Angularly difintercfted. I fliould be very
f«rry that the intrigue which ia renewing
! . ~ PNflcefi royal fliould ; for | and circumstances (hall put it in my powsr
if it fhoulo, they would have an Lo"
that is iny apprehension, and that is the re - this day will come, for our reciprocal con
fon why I have infilled upon forty-nine al- folation, lam Sir, with great refpefl, your
ways remaining free. Barthclciry is ill, and , very humble and obedient ftrvant.
very melancholy, anu I (hould not be fur- (Sighed) " Pancemont,
prised if he is af.'edkd by reriorfej I have *. Curate of St. Sulpice."
informed them, t'tatif they choose, I will (^.'14.)
found him, to set if lie would obey an or- "La Roche, Rate!, feaionary writer and
der from the king to quit the place, and
deliver to the person appointed all the pa
pers relative to the embafiy. They did.uot
aiifwer me, because they never ahfwer.
Fai ewcll "
~ (No. 4 .)
" Ihe opinion of the king nnd of the
princes in the interior, &C. See. you per
ceive ought not to ba known.
" Above all things, let us not speak of
the perfidy of the EngWh or of Pitt, but
only some flight difappro"bation or advice.
All the red of the politics may be laid open ;
the intrigues of Vienna and of Doulcet
may all be difcovered.y
J „ ( N °*-).
'• You alk.me many things. Without
doubt you w;lh to eflablifh a correspondence
with the armies of the coast ; and you want
to knew what is passing in the committee
and in the armies—that is very well. This
is a great work, but it would be nothing if
the means toaccomplifh it were fufficient.
I would then exert myfelf; but I will tell
you one thiug, and your conftitutiou will
surely do it, that is, that they (honld obtain
nothing but by fair means."
(No. 6.)
" Will the emperor penetrate into Al
l'ace as a conqueror ? or will he conquer it
for the king of France ?—T confefs to you,
that I believe nothing ; foi'i't will be necefla
ry to difrover his plan beforehand. This
mny cause the campaign (o fail, but may
effect difpolitions of the primary aflem
blies ; and when the enemy enters upon the
republican territory, the convention will turn
their attention from any beneficial pursuits,
to induce them to oppose the enemy, who
cah that the court ofVienna, which
is acquainted with the difpolition of the in.
tenor, may nbt be anxious that it (hould not
be manifefted in a manner that may not cor
respond with its views ?
(No. 7 .)
" Ssyer wrote to us yesterday. I know
that Barthelemy is not content: he wrote,
confidentially, to a friend, that all this
would end badly."
(No. 8.)
"To all this no answer is given : but
they went to unravel Doulcet's intrigue; for
that purpose, they had remitted me more
than 2co Louis. Tell me how I /hall dis
pose of them."
(No. 9.)
" Mr. Wickham does not? approre of re
jefting the conftitutionaliih. Hare you
seen the new work of Dumourier }"
(No. io.)
" 40 —If you can, without inconvenience,
bring me Bezane's Elements of Mathema
tics, our dear Marnaontel'B Elements of
literature, to 48, you will oblige me much.
Bring us some intelligence from the latter,
if you can do it without endangering your
felf. My uncle has written to him by the
last courier."
(No. II.)
" Beflot, lieutenant of volunteers." (It
appears that there are a great number of
lettm written by this Beflot, a counter-re
volutionary person and spy )
" Htminguen, Sept. 26, 1796,
" When any certain intelligence of I. I.
(hall be received, it (liall be sent to you im
mediately. He went llraight to London,
wliere we know that he arrived in 48
hours."
" Vou mock me, my dear comrade, from
what I can judge Jjy your letter ps the I2lh;
reft quiet; we fnall have ouf hire as well as
the army of Kleber ; we (lull here pas* the
Rhine, as we hope we are all well disposed ;
troops mud come here in a fliort time, as
we are aflured. I shall fend you an account
of what we are doing ; what gives 'me the
greateli uneasiness is, the wqnt of money
for the purpose of the campaign ; fee my
brother-in-law, and endeavour to persuade
him to fend me something, among other
things three (hirts, if he can, with two or
three pair of (lockings; in so doing you
will perform me a very friendly office. I am
sure that Goujon will employ you for me if
he is able. You know that we have been
at Manheim for some days,where we expe£l
to hear from you ; my compliments to all
your friends, whom I hope ( to fee. Adieu,
my dear comrade, I embrace you in friend
(hip.
(Signed) « BESSOT,
" Lieutenant of volunteers."
" Have you received the 200 livres that
Vold?ne undertook to forward to you ; what
the Devil are you speaking of, if Wurmfer
has been to fee J. J. ? He came there ; they
agreed very well.
" Voldene ia come from Vienna ; he will,
I believe, inform you of a great many
things."
(No. 12.)
' " Be£tionsof Parii—the enemies rely on
them.
" You may be sure that J. J. is in a fury,
particularly at feeing how well evtry thing
goes on in the interior ; he does all he can,
and will take advantage of the firft oppor
tunity which he (hall fee. Reft allured of
this.
" La Vendee goes on well. F - yis
there."
(No. 13.)
" Maynaud Pancemont—Curate of St.
Sulpice acknowledges the receipt for mo
ney."
28th Sept. 1796.
" Yes, certainly, Sir ; I recolledt the dif
ferent sums which have come to me through
your hands, and what have beer, employed
according to-your wiflics. I have received,
inclofedin your letter, the 10,000 livres, in
bills of 3,000 livres, and I shall aft accord
ing to your intentions. I return you, in
the r.ftme of religion, my fiitoereft thanks,
'♦La Roche has been written to by Ra
tel, and the latter pVefks him to hasten the
interview: we (hall fee whether he receives
the invitation kindly.
" I was yeflerday at La Roche to look
for Rat el and to confer with him on the ob
ject to which your letter alludes. He is
gone for monies, whither he has been sent
for on the preceeding evening by the elec
tors. They have promised me that he (hall
be informed of my onset, and that he shall
eome to fee tpe immediately.
" Another contingent evil would be,
their having at their disposal Madame Roy
ale ; and it is for the ft&ions of Paris, and
for all.Fraee, to avert the blow, and not to
fuffer themselves to be deprived of the re
mainder part of that miserable family."
(No. I J )
" Lacretelle, it is said, l«ads the feftion
of Lepelletier ; that ie, in my opinion, the
company of grenadiers.
" We hav« not been able yet to fee citi
zen Ratel, though twice invited to receive
the teflimony of your friend/hip. He a
grees that all the fe&ions are led by ten or
twelve persons, but that the principal are Le
harpe, Lacretelle, and Richer Sertfy. But
how, said I, can all this be possible ? for we
believe that these three persons are r.ot re
publicans ; and if they are not, how can
they lead those who are ?
" If M. Sourdat had fonle new numbers
if the Ventriloquist, it would cffeft won
ders. I have no farther time, as the guard
waits to carry the packet to the diligence,
which is opposite to the Luxemburg!)
Health."
(No. 16.)
" It is vexatious not to be able to have a
onverfation with Ratel. It has not been
possible to fee him. He has always avoided
public ways and high roads, without ap
pearing in ihis country, and we have no more
communications with La Roche than you ;
besides, I have no person at my disposal to
fend into that country. I (hall, however,
rilk a letter to him, ky the medium of his
friend Lambert, though we do not know
whether it will succeed. He was to rejoin
Barail at Nantes, and they were to go to
Versailles together."
(No. 17.)
" We are to speak of the communications
which remain to be made to me with refpeft
to a part of the amnefiy. With refpeft to
the 49 ( who voted the death of Louis XIV.)
I do not think that the king can, by any
public aft, or by any new declaration, par
don those judges. But the king regards as
a different matter, a pardon to be granted to
thof« who, having committed this crime,
(hould render such ferviee, and so employ
their and means, as that the king
(hould feel himfelf indebted to them for his
rcftoration to his throne. In this cafe,
(hould the king grant a pardon, no one eould
condemn his conduft ; but great a£ls and
great services would be neceflary to hii ex
cuse and juftifkatinu."
(No. 18.)
Proof that Lemaitre had a copy of a se
cret treaty with Holland—Art. The ports
ofC , of Br , Colonibe, Trineom
ale, (hall be open to French (hips, as well as
to the (hips of the United Provinces, and
on the fame conditions.
(No. 18.)
Poifly, aiTociate of Marat.
31ft December. Barthelemy wrote that
the new year would fee the Regicides fall;
the royalists the constitution of 179 1.
J. C. Boifly wrote, that he would write
against the Royalists, in order to serve thtm
the better; that he wifliid.for Mallet and
Moivtefquieu to post up royalty, and Mai-/
ouet, Stael, aad Narbonne, Constitutiona
lists.
10th and 12th August Boifly—We
mult have a royal constitution; we cannot
trust the Englifhraen in the South; as they
wish for anarchy.
(No. 20.)
Lamont, formerly advocate at Caces;
good Henry Larivierre, advocate at Fal T
aire ; good M. Butts, at Paris. (He was
there oa the 20 Aug. 1797 !
BALTIMORE, Nov. 9
James Carroll, Esq. is eleifled I'peakcr of the
house of dolegatcs, of Maryland.
A warrant has been iflued by the house of de
legate#, for a new election of delegates, for the
city of Baltimore.
CHARLESTON, OA. 11.
MARRIED—By the Rev. Bishop Smith, on
Tuefdav evening, Majfcr Thomas Pinckney,
lateminifter to the court of London, to' Mrs.
Frances Middleton, widow of John Middle
ton, Esq.
N O T I C E.
AI.L persons concerned are hereby notified,
that the fiiWcriber intend* to apply for a re
newal of the undermentioned 101 l certificates of
Stock in the Bank of the United States—He for*
warded them tinder cover of a letter addrefTed to
John Anfley.of London, by the ship Bacchus, capt.
George, which left this port in June lad for Lon
don. But that (hip having been captured on htr
paflage and sent to France, the above Utter and ln
clofure haw failed in their deftinatiou.
Three certificates, viz
Nos. 26325, 26326, 26327, each for
four shares, dated January ift, and
iflued in the name of Heary Grace, of Tot
tenham Highcrofs, Great Britain.
ZACCHEUS COLLINS.
Philadelphia, nwember 8. H lw 6 W
SILK.
ANY person having raw Silk of American or
.European produce, may kear of a pur
chaser who will give a liberal price~for the fame.
Application to be made at the store of Robert
f.tv/if, jun. No. 7C, Pine Street wharf, any
Lime before tl.e lath of January next,
Nov. «o,
X£e <sasttW
PHIL A DELPHIJ,
SATURDAY TVEMP'G, NOVEMBER it
Yefterdjy, about two o'clock in the af
ternoon, the Prefloat of the United States
arrived in town, after an absence of between
three and four months. He was met at
Trankford, and efcorted'to town, by the
three volunteer troops of horse of this city,
commanded by captains Dunlap, Singer,
and Morrell, and the countytroop command
ed by captain Forreft. On alighting front
his carfiage, he was welcomed by tlie huz
zas of a crowd of citizens affembhd on thtf
oceafiou, and a federal salute from a detach
ment of the artillery. The Heads of De
partments immediately waitcdupon him with
their congratulations on his fafe return to
the Seat of Government.
Peals were rung from the Bella of Christ
Church and continued thro' the day.
The Aurera account of the arrival of the
President of the President of the United
States, is in unison with the general tenor
of the factions publications in that Paper,
A GROSS MISREPRESENTATION.
The number of Horse wa3 truly refpeft
able, and on no occalion has there been. a
more numerous muftcr, of several of the
corps,
The Federal charafter of our city was
perfo&ly vindicated from the afperfionso.
the Aurora by the truly refpedable and pas
triotic rtcepriort of the Chief Magistrate o
the Union yesterday, any thing in that
Foreign Gazette to the contrary noN
withstanding.
The follow lug members of Conjrefs arc
in town, MefTrs.- Harper, Machir, Macon,'
Sprigg and Dent of the House of Repre
sentatives—and
Mr. Reed and Mr. Lawranee of the Se
nate.
THOMAsTItLINGHURSTrEsQi IS eleft
ed Member of the House of R'eprefentatives
of the United States, in the room of E. R.
Potter, refigned.
Letters from Baltimore by this days mail 1
inform, that the (hip President from Lon
don, with a very valuable carge, is taken
off the capes by a French privateer. The
people were landed from the {hip 6n the
coast by the privateer.
OF MAKING LEGAL ADJUDICATIONS.
Extra& of a letter from a Merchant in Bal-
" I have lately heard of the condemnati
on of one of our veflels and cargoes, valiifey
at least 16,000 dollars—(he was bound to
a French port, with every necessary paper that
a vessel could have ; was taken into St. Ja
go in Cuba ; the capt. sent to Cape Fran
cois for trial, where condemnation was pal
fed, for •want of papers, they having been
dcjlr oyed by the prize master, or captain of
the privateer."
A CHARITY SERMON 1
Will be preached To-morrow, 12th inft.
by the Rev. Mr. Carr, for the support of
the free school of St. Mary's.
GAZETTE MARINE LIST.
Netu-Tork, Nov. 10.
ARRIVED DAYS
Ship Herculea, , Gibraltar. 47
Schr. Thetis, Drake, Bermuda.
Baltimore, Nor. 9.
Fort M'Henry, Koi'. 8.
Arrived brig Thetis* Thomas 6'prigg, 28
ifiays from Cape Francois—Came in the Capes
with (loop Fair American, Rogers, from the
fame poit.
Ship Willink, Stewart, 75 days from Am
ftrrdam-
The Canal Lottery,
Will re-commence drawing, on Monday
the 20th inft.
ROBERT BROOKE,
Nov. 11.
Teas of superior quality.
80 chests fine Hvfon
i? ch»fts young Hyson
1 chests Imperul
For Sale, corner of Second and Pine ftreetj, ko
C. HAIGHT.
v member 11
The Office of Secretary of State
OF THE UNITED STATES,
IS removed to No. 13, South Fifth street, near
Chefnur street. y,t „„ v . so .
Ali Persons who are indebted to
the estate of William Hevsbam, fen. of Phila
delphia, deceased, are requeued to make speedy
payment; and those who have any demabd* a»
painfi said eflste, will pleafrto present them, pio
perly atccfted, to the fubferibsfs.
lY'tHiam Heyfham, ~t
Robert Hexham. C Executors.
Francis Bwwes Sayre, J
november 61
Just published,
And to be lold at the Bcokftores of H. fcf p.
Rice, No. ?o, Market-fireet | J. Ormrodj
No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, and W. Voun»'
confer of Chefnut and Second-streets,
An acfcurate System of Surveying;
IK WHICH IS CONTAINKD,
I. Decimal fraftions, in a plain, eoncife.
and easy manner.
i. The extraction of the square root.
3. PJain trigonometry* retfangulir and ob
lique;
4. An exadl method to cast up the content*
cf lands.
j. Field surveying.
The whole beinp performed without the ufc
of scale and compafles, on a table sf logarithms.
To which is given some accrust of the variation
if the needle, and the caufcs of its attrition.
By SAMUEL MOOIIE
August i
*eojt,
FRENCH MODE
timore.
Check Clerk.
dt2o.
»aw
7*
lawtf
2aw4wFOR SALE,
A Tearn of five excellentHorfes, I
with a V/ ?? gon and Gears. The Horfet are all
yoniif, ft r 'ong, tnue to the draught, and iaj>a 1 c
of haul •11jt as great a weight as most in the cou«- tt
try The U'aggon and Gears il
in TUxl order. Applvto ROBF.K T GLlihN, tion,
Weft Town, Cheller county, or to ippr
Thomas Fijher, dy o
No. 142, S. Second Street, Phila elphia.
11 mo.-z, eodjw. co , u .
In the Press,
speedily will be publilhed by Willi am , j
v Young, No. 52, Second, the corner ot v
Ghefnut St reet > Pea '
A VIEW
Of the Science of Life ; Tr«
On the principles established in ths elements the
t»f Medicine, of tbe late eelehrMed P' lr '
JOHN BROWN.M. D.
With an attempt to correal some important er- J
rors of that work, and cases in illuflration, chief-
Iv fe'ecled from the records of their praftice, at p n[
the General Hofpjtal at Calcutta, hart
Br WItLIAM TaTES y ChAS. Mb.CIE.AN. B.W
To which is fubjeined, 1 Treatise on the ailion
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applica
tion for the cure of dileales of indireif debility
Andadifiertation enthe sources of Epidtmicand* y
Pcftilential diseases; in which isattemptedtoprove 1
by a numerous indufUon ps fails, that they tit- Rl<
ver arise from contagion, but are always produ
eed by certain slates, or certain vicifiitudes of (0
the atmosphere, by Charles Maclean, ot aC( .
Calcutta. ' woi
Oil. 31. S IJt . J
At the Federal Blast Furnace, An
In Car-jer—/or Slitting, Platting, and Rolling
Mil ls.
SEYMOUR'S Patent Rollers. ' (
THEIR fuptriority conjijls in bang free from Cq|
boles and honey-combed flares, which are com
manly found in rollers caji in sand, or clay s q
moulds. Theft fatenl rollers are cafl in iron U p
moulds, previoujly heated, and <will be found to
be moredenfe, fo'id and durable than any rollers f uc
beretofore used- Another impirtant advantage Bn |
tbey, have ever others, is t that tbe necks require 1 lie
no turning, but are immedaitely fit for use, and p«i
from lheir accuracy, run <witb less friHion, and 1
require less water to make them perform their
luork. I hey may be bad by application H the
Patentee in Plymouth, of Gen. A j'banifl GOOJ-
W'"> or cf .MeJfrs. Thatcher and Hayivard■
80/lon, Ausr. 31. Sept..l - _
* This' Day is Publilhed,
BY McIT. Dobfpn, Carey, Campbell, Ric f> end the
other Booksellers, ]
Price One Dollar and twenty-five cents,
Elegant y printed on IVove paper, and Hot
prejfed, B(
By John Fhompfon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF . T|
The Constitutions
Of the several States witk ejich other, and with
that of the United States : exhibiting in Tables,
the prominent foatyres of eaeh Conftitntion, and
cfoiling together their most impsrtant provisions,
under the several heads of administration 1 with
Notes andObfcrvations. • b(
By WILLIAM SMITH, f ; .
Of South-Carolina, c<
L It. D. aad member of the Congress of tht d,
XJhitedStitffs. et
Bedicated to »h» People-jf the United States. a i
N. B. A few Copies printed o» an inferior p»- It
per, at 3-4thsof a dollar.
•' G'tty Comm'ijfioners Office, J;
June 11, 1797- j
IN pursuance of an ordinance from the fclecS
and common eouncils, pifled the nd day of
May lad, appointing the city cwmmiflioneri,
and orefcribing .their duties, fe<Sion 9th,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, 1
That the city is divided into five diilridU,
each to be under the fuptrintendance of one of ,
tbe city eommiffiontrs, whoisto be individually
relponfihle for the cleanlirfefn of the fame, and ,
are as follow. . I
Driftrifl No. t. From the south fide ot Ce- (
dar-ftreet, to the north fide of Spruce-street, I*l- ]
rthe fuperintcndence of Nathan Boys. ,
4 . Prom the north fide of Spruee-ftreer, to
the north Ode of Walnut-street, under the fuper
kitendence of Hugh Roberts. . . .J
3. From the north fide or Walnut to the south
fideof High-street, under tht fuptrintendtnee ot
J °4 P From s SrnoVtil fide of High-street, to the
north fide of Mulberry street, under the super
intendence of William Mouldef.
, From the north fide of Mulberry-ftrcet to
the north fide of Vine-street, under the lupcr-
Intendence of Nicholae Hicks. _ _
The cleaningof High-street to be in comaon.
tt A stated meeting of tht city commimon
ers is held at ihe Old Cot.rt House, in High
ftreet, every Tuesday evening at 5 o clock.
~ .. coim
J» ] y m-
Stands for Draymen, tsfc.
In putfuante of an Ordinance from thtSeleH and
Common Councils, bearing date the nd day of
Jfril, 1797- providing for the appointment as
City Cotnni\J]ioners, i3c. Sell, the \sth.
The following pla«« are fixed upon by the
said City Commiflioners for Stands for
Dravmen and their Horses.
In Vine-street, eaftwand" of Front-ftre«, on
b °Salfafr's, High.Chefnut and Walnut-fttree|s,
raftward ot Front-street, on the north fide only.
Mulberry-flreet, south lide from Front to
T Frontftreit, "ft fide from Vine-street to
E1 Front S -street, from opposite to Black Horse al
ley to Hamilton's ttores, east fide.
. VVater-ftreet, weft fide from the north end of
«tT,mner*s or Moore's (lores to Pme-ftreet.
Penn-ftreet from Pine to Ce-Jar-ltreet, weft
£> dC ' K,;,lrrp north fide, east of Front-street.
Spruce,"Pine and South streets, east of Front
ftr Dock'-ftSc!' <i between WaJnUt-ftreet and the
stone croffiogs, east fide, opposite George
° Secofid-ftreet, between Saff.fras and Vine
Sr Fifth-ftre ft et r l'«ft fide from Chefnut to Mul-
Ve Sivlrafras-ftreet, from Third to fo«rth-ftreet,
" No dray or horse to stand within tep feet of
FOR HACKNEr COACHES
Pine-street, north Ode from Fourth to Fifth^
flr Fffth-ftrcet, between Chefnut and Walnut
streets, welt. , fe»tw#en Third aud
Branch-ftr«t, north W-. »aw#en
Fourth streets.
July 14-
LAW BOOKS, 1
Latest London and Dublin Editions. Norti
H. P. RICE, Booksellers, >
No. 16, South Second, and No. 50, Mashet llreet,
HAVE just received by the h:e arrivals from whi)
London and Dublin, then importa- Tide
tion, confiding ©f a variety of the latest and moll R u flj
ipprovcd Jaw Books,-which,added to those alrea- R aV c
dy on hand, forms the moftextentive colleflion cv- Bag'
er offered for fa'e in this country. They the:t ef ore j Heffi
beg leave to notice, thai from the naiirre ot their Djap
conne&icnsin Dublin, they are enabled to felllrifli Enip
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowed prices The following are among the latest a
publications. Tcfe , Fine
Vefey, jiin'rs Reports in Chancery, 1 v.i Abo
Peake's Cases at Nisi Prius ; Ridgewiy'e Reports Clov
in the %ime of Lord Hardwick<i; F1 oyer's Procters Itali:
Pra&ice iu the Eeclefiaftical Courts; Barton s Win
Treat iff on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd's Pra&ice of ~
the Court of King's I3«nch in Personal AAiohs, 1 SLX
parts ccvnplete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, I* vols. London cdi- Ji
tion.
H. and P. Rice cicpe& to receive by the firft ar- A
rival from New-York die 6th vol. complete of
Durnfordand East's Reports, the ad part of Gil
bore's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
new publications. \
June 16.
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT FROUO,
Ig now in the press, and will be publilhed,
wkh all convenient expedition, by ZiCHA
rIA h Poulson, jun. No. 80, Cheinut-ftreet, T
Philadelphia, where fuWfcriptions will centinu*
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library,
according to the printed projwfals, until the .
work is ready for thefubfcribcrs.
July »8. * awtf atcc
this day Was published, ton
And for sale by THOMAS BOBSON, at the ha.
Stone House, No. 41, south Second street, thri
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR, THE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED, y
Consisting ofa variety of Miscellaneous Piecei for I *
the Infraction and amusement of YOUNG PER- j
SONS—SixVolumeshandfomely priatedar.d bo«nd I
up in two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of thcfn piecei are I
. such, that the book needs only to be known to be I
nniverfally ejleemcd one of the mod valuable jrtib- |
I Mentions th.it can be put into the hands of young I
parsons.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought, I
To teach the young idea how tu (hoot, I -p
To pour the frefli inftruclion o'er the mind, I" '
To breathe th' enlivening spirit.and to fix
The genereus purpose in the glowing bread."
Thomson. I
August 14. nawf4w 1 0
.. _ 11 1 ■ ■ ■ ■ '"■ Im (
THIS D AY IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSQN, at the Stone HoaTe, {
No. 41, south Second llreet.
Letters and Converfationt, H
Between several YoungLadies,on improving and itb- 1
tereftmg fubjeAs.
' Trxnflated from the Dutch of Madame de Catmint I
with alterations and improvements, I
Printed on fine paper, and neatly found,
Priceon. JMar. ' I ft |
.* AMIDST the tide of modern Rbitkiqcci, pamftng
ty
tales of extraordinary dillrel's, or of defperale or
I I artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul,'' avl 1 f°
1 which it, would be for the honor of young ladie* »o ■
})e ignorant of, this little book comas forward »o so. I 01
licit notice, where, in a variety of iaeidenti, not cx- I ti
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, becauf« I a
6 elegant and neleral dirkity and imparlance as the Female p
elarnSer is exhibited in an infrrefting point of view, 1 f<
and presents examples of real and attainable c*eel- I p
- lebc-.
The publisher was fomuch pleased with the per*"- I _
fal,that he wssperfuaded he Ihpuld do a pleasing
- service to thi community by feuding it i« o sircu
lation. August 14 —m»4*
Aft laying Duties on Stamped Vellum -
Parchment and Paper. t
, A FEW copies of the above ail may be had I 1
' he Office of the (Jazettuof «ha Unttad States, No. I 1
119, Ohefnut.ftreet. July If. if
»• The Partnership, I [
I T TNDER the firm of FREIMAN W Company, I t
J U is dissolved by mutual consent. All persons I 1
having any demands against the said House are de- I 1
fired to render to T. B. Freeman ; and j
e " those indebted to the House are desired to make pay- I 1
*" ment to him —By whom business will in future be j 1
carried on.at his Store, No. 19, South Front-street. 1
<° AugnJl 7 et"Uw
r " Richard and James Potter
th* HAVE removed their Counting House to No. I
ot 45, South Fifth-ftrcet.
rtuguft ». w&f6t
h r e _ Tancader, Harripurgh Carlijle, J
Shippenjburg and Sunbury
STAGES.
THE public are requeued to take notice, that j
the partnership which lias for some (line sub- j
,n * fitted between Mathias Slough of Laocafter, and I
William Geer, is now dissolved: but, not as M. I
Slough infinuateste the public without i®ft cause ; I
as will mare fully appear by a lstter on the fab- I
- je<ft from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the 19th
December last. a recital sf which is not now deem
ed necessary. Auy gentleman who wilhes to be I
more circumstantially informed of the merks of I
this business, by applying to W. Ocer may have I
"J the perusal of M. Slough's letter, and then can be I
if at full liberty to determine whether or not W.I
Geer is not perfeAly. juftifiable in attaching him- I
the (elf to any other person in the prosecution of the I
f®* Stage eonveyancs from Philadelphia to Shippenf- I
urg, or any other place. |
on Now from tbe liberal and generous support the 1
public were pteafed to confer on the firft effort in I
tts, this business, William Geer, in eonjunflion with I
lly. Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to to prosecute and carry it on, with every care, at- I
tention and dispatch that a zeal to oblige the pub- ,
to lie can possibly exert. I
The above company, who are amply provided
. , with carriages, horfec, and every appurtenance to j
' " render the passage fife and commodious, inform
, C those wno wish to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
n George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Montky
1 and Friday, to proeeed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
K Carlisle and Shippenlburg. The fare as hitherto
OHI established.
For the further accommodation of the public,
tlif a Siage will start every Wednesday from the houfo
,r g e of Samuel Elder, m Harrilburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
fine an d return from theuce and arrive at Harrilburg
every Saturday, so that passengers deftino<i for
*ul- Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed 00 Mon
eet, Uays ' WILLIAM GEER,
Lancaster, Jan. 17, 1797-
t of N. B. This Line of Stages start» from the,
house of William Fcrrae, in Lancaster, on every
5. Tuel'day and Saturday morning at 6 o'olock, pro
'ifth cceding to the westward; and li*om the house of
* Mr. Samuel Eldet in Harrifburg every Wedncf-
Inut day morning, on the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in ShippenfWirg, and returns
am ] from thence on every Thursday : performing the
fame routine daily as in its tour from Phibdel
n phia. .® wf
Thomas Herman Lluffer, j
North >?fth Cifrect, corner of Norvh alley, No. 34, | Andt
HAS FOR 6AI.E,
EXCELLENT red Bourdeaux Wine In cases and
1 boxes, fix years old
White Graves Wine in calks
TicJclenburgs T1
Ruflia Sail Cloths
Ravens Deck , n
Bag Linen
Hessians ( '
Diaper and Table Cloth te
Empty hags
Common German Cloth
A n aflortment of black coloured Ribbons Tl
Fine German l aces
About twelve tons RufU* cleaA Hemp Unit
Clover Seed
Italian Soap, in froall boxes, for family use ganii
Window Glass Aug 19 —refpo
| Excellent Bourdeaux Brandy
Ditto ditto Claret in cases ters 1
Just received, and for Sale b'y miltc
Runtlle Letch. that
A*z- 11.
Will branded, .£
From on board the ship ' live, Capt. Blair,from W1
Hamhutgh, CA^'
10 baits white Ruflia elea« Hemp
% calks Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas Herman Leuffer,
NarthPlfth street, No. 34. ( L - !
June t6. \ ' ty fe
TO BE SOLD,
And immediate fojjeffion given,
A Convenient well fimfhed Brick Tenement, wpr
with a cook house and other out houlcv, fltu- n
ated in a pletfant part of the boruugl? of Wilming- <■ ; B
ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground « et
has forty feet Front on Wsft-ftreet, aud extends « o(
throtgh the square to Pasture-street, on which is n g
srefted a liable and carriage honfe. Ny
ALLEN M'LANE. 1,
Wilmington, Aug. jt. Uei
" Imported in tbe'Jhip Pigou,
And for sale by John Morton, No. 116, South eto|
Front-street, t ; oc
Hyson
Hjfon Skin C^eas
Young Hyion I j
Imperial J
April ta.
F®r sale or to be let on ground- ani
rent » , fn.
A-valuable Lot of Groun/l ;
SITUATE on corner of Wal- a>|
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front T]
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen eQI
feet a.id an half cn Fifth street ; there are at jn
present two I'inall two story brick houfct, and a g( .
number of fniall tenements thereon.
. Also, for Sale, *-
Two three story Brick Houses
Witb convenient stores, wharf, ftc. situate on £
Water-street, between Mulberry and Siflafras
streets, containing in front on Water street sis- r~l
ty-four feet, and continuing that breadth east- J
J ward nine:y-five feet, then widening to the s>
( ( south thirteen feet fix inches. These lroufes tic
0 are the convenience of a public alley adjoining co
n. on the north fide, and are a very desirable fitua- so
t- I tion for a merchant, flour fa£lor,or others who de
\* may have occalion for storage of goods. This
<r property will be fold en *ery reasonable t*ms >n
», for calh. For further information apply to the *■
1- printer. p
My 31- m&wtf i:
>c I TO BE SO LD, B
■* Aiu! pofftf/ion given immediately, ul
\ LARGE two story brick Houfe,handfomely
~ f\ situated in Princeton. There are four rooms
I and a large entry on each floor, and five room' in
I the garret, a range of back buildings 51 feet in
II length, and apiaazaof J7 feet. There is a pump
•. 1 in the yard, an excelleut kitchen garden, at the
] farther end of which are a carriage house and two
stables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
I flails in the two stables for a? borfes. The HeaV
y, 1 thinefs and pleasantness ot its situation, and the j
ns I number «f genteel and agreeable families in and
le- I near the town, render it a desirable retreeat for a
nd 1 gentleman from the city. The commodioufnef« of
iy- 1 the heufe, its central position, and the largenWs of
be the stables, m*keit';evcry way fultableforatavcrn,for
et. 1 which it has always been confiderd as a e&pitfl
I stand. Inquire oil the prenaifes, of <
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
I Princcto", Ang. J 9 —dtwiawrf
io. I , —,— ■ '■
t City of Walhingtoß.
!e,\ • SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
I For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent'Wellmg-houfe *o,ooodoUars,
h« * calh 30, ope, arr 50,00..
at. I r ditto 15,1100 & calh »5,00s 40,00#
an ,l I I ditto 15,600 & r.afh 15,00u 30,000
M. I I ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 so,ooo
ife ; I 1 ditto 5,000 X calh 5,000 10,000
uh- I 1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 so,ooo
9th I 1 calh prize of *O,OOO
:m- I » do. ' 5,000 each, • 10,000
Ibe I j q 1,000 - - 10,00 c
' I do. 5 00 " " lOjOOC
ave I 00 do. 100 - - 10,000
Ibe I 100 d«. 50 - - 10,000
, w - 400 do. 15 - - 10 > oao
"T" 1,000 do. 10 - ao,ooo
15,00® do. IO - 159,000
vhe 1 *6*739 Prizes.
in 3J»*6i Blanka.
ined 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,00#
« N. B. Tofavour thofewho may take i quan-
I tity of Tiekets.the priie of 40,000 dollars will be
ided I t-*sT drawn ticket, and the 33,000 the last
eto but one : . .
orm And approvednotes, fecuwngpaysnesit in either
the I money or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will
1 at J be received for any number not leUthan 30 tick
i>rfe I •
idby This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of
mre the private buildings to be in the City of
lcr to Walhington—Two beautiful defies are already
leleAcd for the entire fronts on two of the public
,blic fduares; from these drawings it is proposed to ereA
louse' two centre and "our c orner buildings,as foonas pof-
Sun- fible after this lottery isfold, and to convey them,
[day, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
burs the manner described in the scheme for the Hote.
for Lotterv. A nett deduAion of five per cent, will
4o„. be made to defray the neceflary expenses of priiM-
Vntt &c. and the surplus will be made a part of
the fund intended for the National University, to
be erecled within the city of Waftiingtcn.
. The real fecurit.esgiven for the payment of the
" Brizes, ire held by the President and two pireit-
VCry „ rs 0 f the Bank of Columbia, and are valued at
- Pr °; more than half the amount of the lottery.
; of SAMUEL BLODGET.
d « Tickets may be had at the Bank ol Colum
-3" l.ii •of lames Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Feter
] a Z Oilman, Boston ;of John Hopkins, Richmond :
Ul. -d of Richard Cooper s F»rry.
This Day Published, Rci
And to be fold by WILLIAM YOUNG, «orner of.
Second and (Siefnut streets,
Price 3 -%tbi of a Bvllar, j s j q (
Qhfervations on certain Documents t j
Containoil i* No.V and VI of JL i
" The History of the United State! for SCH(
the year 1796,"
In wh'ch the charge of speculation againlt
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, ghi
L*te Secrktaky of the Tn asury, is FULLY j artre
CI
wrrt rk n Br uiusßlf• Di
TMs publication presents a concise ftaternent A j
of the base means pra&ifed by the Jac'obitt3 of the writ i
United State* to afpetfe the chara&ers of tfcofe- {h eat]
p«rfons who arc confidcredas hoftilfi totheif dilor- klanl*
ganizing fehemes. It also contains the cos-
refpondence between Mr. Hamilto* and Mcfir*. publj
Monroe, MuhWnburgh and VqnabTe, on the fuh- 0
}e& ©f the documents alorefaid, and a (cries of let- jjqq
ters fr«m James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Ha- j n
milton, proving beyond the pombility of N a doubt,
that the conne&ion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring confpiraay on the part £
of the latter and his associates to extort money.
A discount of one third from the retail pi ict rpj
will be made in favor ot wholesale for
cash. Orders to be addreiTed to Mr Voiko.
Autruft 25. .
No. 188. " Conl
, Dtflrid of Pennsylvania, to wit : j
• OK IT REMEMBERED, that on the . d
( L - s )Jj twenty sixth day of July, ia the twen
ty second year of the independence of the*ftJa:ted
States of dmeriea, John Fenho, of the said dtf- Qne
triA,hath depofitedin this office the title ofaboek,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the q
words following, to wit : -x
« Observations on certaiia documents contained
" in No. V. and VI. o£-"The History of fheUnit
"ed States for the year »f 96," in which the charge .
11 of speculation, against Alexander Hamilton, late
" Secretary of the Treasury, is fHly refuted—
« Written by himfelf."
In conformity to the a& of the Congress of the
Ucited States, entituled, " An aft for theeneour-
agement of learning, by fecering the copies of
mas«, charts and books 10 the authors an<? propri- J'
etors of such copies, during 'h® times therei* men-
UODed SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk «/ til Dijlria •/ fmnfylntm*. VM
July 17. _l_ W4W mil
An elegant House in Arch Street. P'>
TO be let and entered on immediately a large
and elegant house at the Corner of Arch and f r .'
Ninth Street. There, are two drawing rooms
and oni dining room —the largest is 31 feet by 1
2& —and two are so eonnetled by folding doors wj .
as to make but one. Also, five bed room*, be
; fides 5 in the garret, wtil fcrilhed for fervanta. am
There are stables and a coach house, with evry |y re
1 convenience fOr a fanr-iiy. Enquire at No. 19, j a ,
1 in North Seventh ftre'tt, of at No. 118, Arch w
1 6tVeet; «»
Ajig. u, ... „
William Blackbui'n, «
' LOTTERY and BROKER'S OFFICE £
• No. 64 south Second-Sre«t.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. U, wtieh
commsnced drawing the 19th May, FOR
* SALE. The price of tickets will rife in propor-
s tion as the drawing advances, particnlarly on ae- ™
g c»unt of the five firft drawn ticki*», prizes of
four thousand dollars each, on the lad day ot
o drawing. I
is Check Books kept forcxamination and regißor-
,1 ing, m the Canal, No. a, City of Wakington, No.
e », and Paterfon Lott«ci«s. v
Also, tickets for sale in the Sehuylkillbridge and
Perkioroen Bridge lotteries, which will bsgtn I
drawing i* the course ef the summer.
The business of a Broker in all kinds of Ssock,
Bills, Notes, Lmds, &c- *%. tranfaiCtad With the _
utmost aUentiop.
7 June 1 .. I r
in Erfkine's View of the "War. I
-
JUST PUBLISHED,
" By HOBERT CAMPBELL & Co. j f
t I No 40 South Second street, I *
[Price 31 Cente] I a
he A View of the Cau/es ana Confequen-1 1
a ces °f the pre/tut War France. c
„ a s Bv the Ho«orab!e Thomas E*skine.
o/ May ii § 1 j
S*T A TET RIALS. ;
Sold b W. Yoono, Bookseller, No. J«, South 3e- I
j coad-llreet, I .
[_ The Pennsylvania State Trials,
the impeachment,Jfial,and acquit-
I al of FrancisHopkinfon, of she Court el j
I admiralty, and John Nicholfon, Comptroller Gen- I
eral—l« one large S vo. vol. Price, in boards, j
I dottWi.
W. Youko has for sale, a general aflortment ot
f ' Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack-
Is » I ego, veil allorted, and entitled •U) the drawback if I
s °" I J«?T T~~'
r For Sale,
000 That <wtllhnt<wn plate, called VdfOßCßiff's I
oo< rax,
000 Ntfliain'my cretic, 18 miles from Phila- I
000 ladelphia, on the New York post road,
000 , ontaining 74 acres and 94 perches. Upon the I
<wc premises are a large two story ione house occu
oop pied as atvrrn, and a gol>d oneftory stone kit- I
Of" t hen, a large frame stable with agtiod threshing I
000 iloor, ant! l'ome out buildings—also a well of
000 pood water, and an excellent ice Hqufe. O#
000 (his place is a moll elegant situation fors gentle- 1
000 msn's feat, commanding a view of the Neftiam
iry toits jun&ion wiih the Delaware, and thence
across to the Jerky Ihore. k has the privilege
of one half the tollrectived from the bridge.
For terms apply to the SnWcriber,
,ooe MORDECAI LEWIS.
May t4- jtiwtf.
nan-
■U« COLUMBIA HOUSE
AST Boarding School for young Ladies.
ither -a tRS. GK.OOMBRIDGE with much pleal
will I IVI ureand refpeft, returns her Ijnccre ac-1
tick- knowledgement for the liberal encouragement |
(he has received during four years refidenee m
tn of I Philadelphia ; and afi'ures her frientjs and the
'y of I public, so far from intending to decline her
ca<J 7 school, (lie has made a superior arrangerosnt for
"bbr I t j ie more convenient accommodation of her
" ea 1 fcholars.—E\cry branch of ufeful and polite
'. pal " ediicati«nis particularly attended to by Mrs.
hcm ' Groombridge and m.ilters excelling tn their
j' I refpetliveproftiTioi.s.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets. „
ruu- June sth, 1797- . ,
rt „r The fitnation is heaitky ; and made
„ to more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
' of ground adjoining the house.
reft- [ - Jujl Published,
ed at An d to be had of MefTrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rioe,
Gary, and the other pricipal Bookfcllers in tV
city .price one dollar, twmty-five cents,in boards,
dum- j^j ew ' v{ ews of the Origin of the
md" Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, d.
wf j June iO.
Rcifool Books and Stationary.
_______ " i
m YOUNG,
No. *2, SecontJ-Creet, corner of Chefnut-ftrect,
HAS now r< ady for sale, a very large aiTort
rrient of EnrAlfh, French. Lathi and Greek
S&HOOL BOOK;*". Also, such elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY PUBLISHED,
Sheridan's Di«ftionary, the fix.th in one
large vol. 8 vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large 12 mo price 1 dol 75 ats.
Ditto, common, price 1 dol.s&cts.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Pafteboarda,
ftieathing and blotting Papers; printed Blanks,
blank Books, Wa% Wafers, and other articles, of
the best quality, used in the counting house, or
public office.
Catalogues of a miscellaneous colle&icn of
BOOKS, with the price of eaqh affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. Oil. 24. — 3-iw6w
JuJl Publ'ijhed 9 ar *d now Sellings
By BENJAMIN DA VIES,
At his Book-Storf, Nn 68, High-Street,'
The AMERICAN REPOSITORY
AND
ANNUAL REG ISTER/artiiVNTTED STATES
FOR THE YEAR 1 798 :
Containing complete and corre& lifts of the Execu
tive, I cgiflative and Judiciary
DEPARTMENTS of GOVERNMENT,
And a variety of ufeful tables, nrceflary to be
known in every State of the Union.
Embellished with two bar.dfome Engravings,
One of which is depi&ive of a melancholy fccne
that occurred during the American war.
OS. fB.
The Philadelphia, Atjion, and 7 uckerton
MAIL STAGE.
T | "'HE proprietors beg have to inform the public, that
JL they have eflablijhed a Stage between Philadelphia 9
Atfion, Baiflo, Hampton, Speedwell, and Martha Fur
nace, Wading River flitting mill, and the town of Tuck
erton, in New-Jersey, to go once a iveek, and are provi
ded -with good horses, a comfortable carriage, and a care
ful driver, for the conveyance of the mail t paffengert, and
goods. The Stage will fart every Thursday, at IO
o'clock, A- M. from Mr. Daniel Cooper s Ferry, and
lodge that night at Joel Bodine's, at Longa coming ; and
on on Friday, at 6 o'clock, P. M. arrive at Caleb E
vans's, ink caper, in Tuckerton, dijlant froin the city 54
miles, (from the Atlantic 6, and from the Ra.fl Gnuftng
Plains 7 miles) -where are good accommodations for tra
s velltts, and where are commodious and fafe paffagtTboats
j provided to convey pajjengers to Capt. IVilliam IVar
ringtons house, on Tucker s JJland, adjoinining the At-
Untie t inhere are good accommodations, and a convenient
f place to bathe ; the ffiortfman xoho ivijhes to regale himfelf
4 with fondling and ffhing, may at this place be highly gra
tified, there being at aimijl every feafom-of the year fowl
* andffh in abundance.—-*lbe Siage on its return, f arts
J from tie afotefaid C. Evans's in Tucker ton, every Tuef
h day, at 6 o'clock, A. ML. breakfafls at John Bodine s, at
h iVading River Bridge, lodge that night at Longacoming,
and at 1 o'clock, P, M. on WednefcLy, arrive at the
aforefaid Cooper's Ferry. It is presumed that no route of
* an equal dijtance will be Irfs expenftve, or furnifh the tra•
veiler with a greater variety of amifement, as he '.nill
£ nit only have a pie afantfail to the atlantic from Tueker
ton j but have the curtofity of feeing on the road thither <M
number 'of capital furnaces and forges, and one fitting
mill, in complete order, and at work ; gentlemen, too, who
ari owners,. or fdZfors, of any of the aforefaid iron works,
F are folic tied to entourage andfdpport this f.age (by wh ch
they can be so well accommb^a'edJ the continuance of which
4 will mnch depend on their aid. The ratts of p'ffengers
° and baggage are as follows : F»r a passenger from the
aforefaid Dtniel Cooper's Ferry to Tuckerton y including
' 14 lb. of baggage, Two Dollars ; for way pajftngers
per mile, Four Cents—lso II). cf baggage equal to a paf
nd f en Z 4r - Pof age of letter*, newftapers, fcjV. will be
* agreeably to law.
° N. B. The mail crojesfrom the Old Ferry.
, THOMAS WARDLE to.
he Tvekerton, Seft. 28. * 0/?. s■—2g-^./s■—2g-^./
The Norfolk Mail STAGE.
r T"'HIS Stage starts from the GEORGE Tavern,
L at the corner or Second and Arth Streets, in
Philadelphia, every Tuesday, Thursday, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the rrorning ; arrives at Tro
ver the fir ft day, at Snowhili the second day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, and 011
*he morning o{,the fourth day the paffengcrs find
a fate and comfortable packet to convey thfcmto
*2 m Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
• every Tueldiy, Thurfiay and Saturday, and the
SfafC itarts from this ferry for Philadelphia, every
Mon»ay, Wcdnefday and Friday Vputaup at Sn?w
Hilt 1 the firft night, at Dover die 2d night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia iu the evening of the third
day.
3e " The diftante on this rout;, Hstween Philadelphia
and Norfolk, i< 80 liiiles less thau on any fuge route
> between thole plaecs
nit- Too much cannot befaid in favor of the rosd }
tot which is most excellent indeed. The proprietors
cn- willingly engage to return the whole fare to airy
5,3 pafTerger, who, after having performed th-is route,
will fay that he ever travelled in a stage for the fame
it of cliftanae, so good a road in America.
ick- AiKn.ft 11. dim. eotf.
Window Glass,
Of Superior Quality, and cheaper than any other fca
y iheCitv —
;f s OF rjRIGUS SIZES 1
Fiom 8 by 6 to 19 by 14,
By the Tingle Box or Quantity, may be had at the
store of the Subscribers, corner of Anh and iront
lUeet.
:cu ' James C. Isf Samuel W. Fijher.
klt " Philadelpliii, Juncg, 1797.
! o ° a f Lately Publifiied,
itle- In one vol. 8 vo. (price one dollar in bejrds) fold
am . by WILLIAM YOUNO, corner of Second and
■nee ChefßUt streets,
lege A Colleftion of Papers on the fubjeft of
a. Billious Fevers, prevalent in the United
States for a few years part.
1 Compiled by NO AH ' 1 hBS / jwt.
Containing letters from Dodlors Seaman, Smith,
—— Buel, fayloi% Ramsay, Monfon, Reynold», Mitch
ell,on contagion, Ac. &e.
[es. "'P'- I5 "
kaf- THE SUBSCRIBERS,
ncnt ASSIGNEES or JAMES SREENLKAF,
fe in HEREBY give notice, that thi-jr have dii'poied
1 the of (he pwsperty assigned to them for trie securing
her the payment of the noti , acceptances, and en -
t for durfeiTients-given l>y Edward Fox, for the use
her of the feid Jatne6 Greenleaf; and the h< Iders of
elite such notes, acceptances, and endorfementJ, are
Mrs. hereby notifyed thai the subscribers will f-ttlc
their with them for the amount of their refpedive
claim?- both principal and interest, at
ts. any time before the acth day of O£lob«r jiext;
frf ' afur whiah dav, the holders not applying, will
nade he excluded, agreeably to the termi of affign
id lot ment.
Applications to be made at south-east corner
of Dock and Second street, (the Dock-ftre*t
fide). between the hours of eleven and one o'
Rkt *-lock every day, Sundays excepted.
„ tv Henr y Pratt >
Dart j s , Tho. IV. Francis,
y°^ n Miller, Jun.
rO . John Ajhlty,
Jatob Bakir.
'6t Philadelphia; A*S, 1795s i