„<«, ®niteo States, Philadelphia Daily :j£SS,
Number 1621.J
SALES BY AUCTION
Stated Sales
For D R T GOODS.
C Forenoon—Edward Fox, No. ss,
./°" th Front-street,
J i Afternoon—Footman & Co. No. 63
C South Front-street.
C Forenoon—John Connelly, Old Ciiv
%iufday < .A "ftion, No. 73 fout'h Front-flreet.
) Afternoon—William Shannon, No.
V. 183 High-street.
iVed.it/Uav 5 Afternoon—Peter Benfon, No. 74
' ' ( south Third-ftrcet.
Tbur/day j Edward Fox. I
{ Afternoon—John Connelly.
Friday I Forenoon—William Shannon.
J Afternoon— John Connelly.
Sniurdar Afi -rnooq—l'oter Benfon.
Sales of Lumber, c.
WILL BE SOLD,
On IVP.DNESDAT, the iUi*fi.p rtt ifj y si , a VW
in tie morn/n<r t J
At C. Lmlen's Lumber Tard,
In the Northern Liberties, near the Hay Scales,
All the Personal Property there
rem a ining belonging to the estate of Caleb Emlen ,
aeceaied, confiiting of the iollowinp- vaJuafcle
articles, viz.
Several hundred of White Pine, Hemlock
*'' ■ ' " Logs, to be fold in lots of abotit thret
thoufanu fe«t «ach
-1 '-a, 2, 1 l-», and 3 inch Oak Planks alfart
ed, mo ft of which are of th;bcftftu/f (or
the us* and building of (hip*
„ 2, and 2 1-4 inch White Pine Planki for
0 quarter Decks
jj 1 J-a to 4 inch Ash Planks
3 Hemlock Scantling assorted
g J Si* piece. Hemlock feet in leug h, and s
_o pin-es 17 feet
White PiH« Jfcjßitling, Maple Scantling
Z a p' e Boards, Quarter Rails
i. Spinning Weel btuff, Whale Pieces 40 fe*
» long
0 A Valuable assortment of White Oak Flitch
H Stuff
Arid fcveral fcparate parcels of old Plank, <cc
ALSO,
Two large Stills, with {
Wortcs, Heads, &c.
A good sorrel Horse—an old Chaise and Sulkey
A large Spinning Wheel and Reel
A number of dill honfe farrs, two log Trucks, a
cutting Box and Knife, a large Feed Box, a
'final! icchor, a Scale with Eeam, and a number
of 561b. Weights, a good Mill Saw, a writing
Pefc with sundry articles in Compting-fioufc, •
two pair ef good Piitols, a parcel of old Iron, j
Cables, Ropes, &c. Likntift,
The wheel works of a Horse «
Saw Mill, complete and in good order.* h
Such persons as may be desirous of purehafing
any part thereof, are at liberty to view them on ''
the premises, where a man will constantly attend
every day previous to the sale. Carpenters, Lum
ber Merchants, Builders, &c. may have a favora
ble opportunity of purehafing Lumber, 3tc. to
more advantage at this sale than ellewhere, which la
no doubt will command their attention. di
Purcliafersto a larger amount than one hundred
doliats may be accommodated with sixty days ere-
dit on approved indorsed notes.
* Sold l»y Order of
FAMES VAUX, and
CHARLES PLEASANTS, ,
Athr.<tys in fall it Mast F.mhn, fotc Bmrcidrim I
Footman Co. Autfrs.
mxtmbtr 13. eo3t d3t '
Samuel & lVJiers fifhcr,
ARE NOwX)PKKING,
At their Warehouse, No. 27, Dock Street, afrefk
aflbrtment of Woolen and other goods, fu>tablc to
the season, received by the late arrival; from Eng
land. > 5
Tbcv bave also fur Sale. ¥
Liibon ->i *
Teneriffe (_ . '
Sherry, and ( In FW" ll *' and q« ar tcr cafcfc-
Port Wines, j
Assorted queen's ware in crates, scc.
loth mo 1 23d. diw3tawjw.
For sale, » r
Joseph Anthony & Co. F
No. 5, Chefnut Street,
A cargo of choice Bourdeaux Brandy, id and id g,
proof, jufl Knded
ajo bales of Bourbon cotton of a superior quality
9 do. Surat, do do
A quantity of heavy black pepper in bales
Bourbon Indigo of the firft quality
High proof Jamaica lpirits
Old London particular Madeira wine ?In pipes k i
do. market do C qr. calks. B
New England rum in hoglheads K
Genuine Holland Gin in pipes J
Claret in cases in
Speimaceti candles and llrain'd oil
Prime Bolton beef
Choice Halifax Salmon in barrels and half barrels
Do. Herring in do do
Best Boflon Mackarel in barrels of the fall faro.
New-England tow l ; mn
A few tons of Ruflia cordage Jo
Ruflia feather beds wl
Clover and Timothy feed in jalks
Long whale-bone
No. i, 2, and 3, Boflon fail duck
A few chests firft quality Hyson tea
Carolina rice in whole and half tierces and <
An invoice of Dutch hollow glass ware. 5
November 8. diw. A
Mordecai Lewis, b«
HAS FOR SALE,
At his Store, No. 25, Great Dock-street,
250 bales of Bengal Goods
Containing Baftas
Colfas
* Gurrahs
Moragugungces
Tookery 5
Check and Stripes S
I Bandano Handkerchiefs 1
Mamoody
Calicoes ,
II boxes Irish Linens
I do. Diapers
7 do. Umbrellas
20 caoifters Java Sugar
78 bags black Pepper 2C
Ili do. East India Gingec (
100 calks roll Brimstone
7® pipes Madeira Wine
J7 casks Gin 1
A quantity of sheathing Copper and Nails* 1
OSober 30. 3aw3W S
PHILADELPHIA: SATUKE-AY EVENING, NOVEMBER ,8, ,797
iltj, Wanted to Charter,
.wJslaKl To one port in Hifpaniola and back
faft failing Veflfel,of thebur
-ss, then of 6 "or 700 barrels. For terms, apply to
Bknjamim Morcan, No. 170, South Front street,
65 or to ROBERT AXJiMStTS,
No. 86, South Wharves.
| IV * member 10. §
«• Philip Nicklin Iff Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
74 At their Stores on Walnut street Wharf,
HavannahSugars, whiteandbrown
4J hhds. Jamaica do.
303tf pi-ces of broad Nankeens
Imperial Tea, in quarters and eighthiof chefls
Quickfilvcr in tubs
Madeira Wine in pipes and hogsheads
_ i'eneri£fc Wine in pipe?
Old led Port Wine in hogsheads
Sai{ Cinvafs, aflorted, No. J to S
8 cases of Manchester Goods, consisting of Dimities,
,ti in«,Thickfttts, Corduroys, &c.
100 crates (Jieeus' War#, assorted
Nails, assorted 9
Black quart Bottles
' Yellcw Ocre in casks
e A quantity of writing Slates, slate Ink Stands, &c.
it-, Ico quarter casks Gun Powder
le Ibn Itavc alfifor SALF. «r CHARTER,
k HAMBURG PACKET,
« Burthen 320 tons, coppered to
the bends, and completely fitted.
Thejhip MOLLY, burthen 340 tons, a
r good veffrl, apd completely fitted.
The brig AMAZON, burthen 1300 bar
r rels, may be ready for feain a few days.
The whole of the above vcliels to be seen at
Walnut street Wharf. § nav .i c .
For sale or Charter,
The Snoxu
Mmfj GOOD hope,
Wi'l carry about iaoo barrels, and
'* rcld y to <U« in a cargo. For terms ,
"■ M * apply to
Pragers b 5 Co. t
No. Ijx, §outh Secoad-ftreet.
Who hare forfait—prime St. Croix Sugar and
Rnm, Madeira, Liibon, and Ttneriffc wine.
November 7. dtf.
For H-amburgh,,
WILMINGTON, 1
Captain Hilraan j c
A Staunch, faft failing, Phi- 0
S&jeasSfcsS*.iY. ladelphia built vessel, of
live oak and cedar, is now in complete order, and
will fail with all poflible speed, having great part of
her cargo already engaged. For freight or pas- J
fsge (having excellent accommodations) apply tv
the captain on board, or to
Summer I Izf Brown. r,
Who have on hand,
Gonaives Cotton, Sugar, Mo
lafles, and a few thousand weight of excellent Cor
dage, including fevcral Cables of 8| & II inches.
novemher 3. tuth&stf
t or London,
THE SHIP P
WILLIAM PENN,
l amcs Jofiah, Majter,
with all coaven- 1
VV icnt expedirion. £or
Freight or Paflage, apj:Jy t« tht Captain, €xr to
yej/e iff Rsbert Wain. ~~
■ .. .. --- ... ■ ■ ~—.
For London,
the ship I
Daniel M'Pherfon, Majter. (,
TO fail with all convenient speed—a confident- C i
blc part of £cr cargo being already engaged.
For terms of Freight or Paflage, apply to
Rofs C5 3 Sim/in.
OA. ii. <
Port and Madeira Wine,
Now Landing,
By (hip Edward, from Madeira, and Bftfey and
Peggy, from Oporto, in Pipes and Hogsheads, br
For sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
WHO ALSO OFFERS FOR SALI,
AMITY,
3VFour thousand barrels burthen,
excellent order—ready to take
in a cargo—about three years old.
LIKEWISE,
The Schooner Industry,
Burthen 800 barrels, ready also to receive a car
go-—and a quantity of
Jamaica Rum and Sugars,
Just landed from the above vessels at South street
wharf. eolm. Nov. I. 1"
For Charter,
the ship
J°b n Bulklcy,
Samuel Volans, Majlcr. a „,
'•■' l vessel is built of live oak coi
J_ an( j ce d #! . ( 0 f about 300 c
barrels burthen, and ready to receive on board a
cargo. .
JeJfe Sff Robert Wain. 1
OA. S t. § ft .
- "'' ' # "" **" * wa
For Freight or Charter, thi
THE GOOD BRIO
S U K E r,
If asc VredeHburg, Milder ;
NOW lying at Clifford's whart,and in compleat ~~
order to receive a cargo. For terms please to ap
ply the Captain en board, or
John Slyrin, —.
N«. 81, Arch-street. I
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
aooo wt.of dfcuble refined Saltpetre ~
600 wt. of F F Gun Powder
300 barrels of Herrings «
50 bulhcls of Timothy Seed JT.
150 cafe? of Claret, firtt quality rfli
Ar4 a quantity ef Sherry Wice. mo
Sept. 19. <lff (
By John Fenno,
Ac , I For Hamburgh.
The Brig M A R Y,
Ut '\ i P'Ttn York, ipa/ler,
to f \St\ Lyinjr atßgffcl'awharf.nearPin e
set. ; ' ,lrct 't. ■' now i cady to take in 4
S?.S?c\»V.* . Cargo, and will fail jn tan days.
»• Fer Freight, or Paflage, apply to /
GURNEY k UMITII. "
Novcniher j6. . <] t f
RONDLE Lejjch, I
Have )iiil received, and hivt for Sale, at no. 9
'II Walnut-fire<t,
Liverpool and St. Übes SALT
Ro. bed house COALS
Queons' WARE in cafe», aflWtcd
Baurdeaux BRANDY of an excellent quality
Do. CLARET in cases, .do.
tTHFY KATE ALSO
For SALE or CHARTER,
TBS SHIP
PEGGY,
IS tons, in excellent condition, and
may be sent to sea with little expmce or delay.
LIKEWISE,
jtKßfck WILLIAM,
' Burthen 101 toni,
November 16. $
o For Sale or Charter,
the brig
a ABIGAIL,
I \»«yyjßr (I.ying at M»rris' Wharf, near
'f tf\e Drawbridge)
OHF. is a Haunch, well fitted vcffel, nlmoft new,
O n j tons, and i« supposed will carry
11 or 1 zoo ham-it, and iails fall. If notfoHifra
few days, (be will take Freight lor ftofton, Salem, 1
Nowburyport, Pottftnoth, or the Wett-Mies.—
Apply to WHARi OS <JT LEWIS.
No. 115, S. Front-Street. '
Who bmefor fait,
Madeira Wine, Jamaica Rum, Brandy, Juni- '
• per Berries, and 70 barrels of Liver Oil. 1
, & A quantity «f Potatoes felling from on '
biiard said brig at as. 6d.per buihcl.
15. § 1
For Sale or Charter,
MThe fait failing brig
Two Brothers,'
Lying at Gurling's wharf,
an excellent single deck"J veflel, burthen about
160 c barrels—not twelve months old, and in
compleat order. For terms apply to the mailer
on board, or to
yo/epb Anthony & Co.
dtw. J'
Five years old Madeira Wine, J
OF the very firfl quality, in pipes, hhds. and *
quarter caflu, jnft landed from the ihijt
from Madeira, and for sale Uy
JOHN CRAIG,
No. 14, Dock-street.
WHO HAS FOX CHARTER,
charlotte, 1
Burthen about 1100 barrels, J
-• — T - j u st Kove down tnd put in com- ii
plete order, and now ready to rective a cargo. t
Alfi, fir SALE or CHAPTER, d
JOSEPH US, l
Burthen about x£oobatrels. I;
nevcrtler 6. Cl
t or Liverpool,
.ty&f CLQTHI ER, J
: yfeisji SMk, NathanielD. Gardner,majler, y
» "ITTILI. fall about the 15th N
1 V inft. For freight or pas- ai
(age apply to the Captain, at Vanuxem's wharf, u
or to , JAMES OI.DDF.N, vi
now. 3. dtf - No. 41. N- Frort-ftreet.
For Sale by the s>ubfcribers, ~
Prime Rice in whole and b/tf ritms
Bout deaux Brandy
Tenrriffi Wine
Molajfes
Georgia tnd Carolina Indigo
Ravtm Duck and one hogjhead of paint
brujhti.
N. Cs* J. Frazer. .
No. 95, Sonth Front Street.
Nov. 7.' .itm
ROSS & SIMSOtf,
HAVE FOR aALS,
A few bales Baftas, Coflas, and
a quantity of Bengal COTTON of
Bengal SUGAR, in bags and boxes
Jamaica, ") «
St. Vincents, C RUM.
and Bengal j
300 calks RICE, E»d
A parcel of (hip buildingltEff CEDAR.
OA. 27. f B
>-
To Gentlemen who intend spending V
the Winter in the City. tic
ROOMS to LET, Pe
WITH or without Board—at No. 114, corner by
of Sixth and Race Streets. The situation ve
agreeable—and vicinity has teen free frowthe late ce
contagion. , OStT »7. —dtf tT>.
James y Richard Smith, _
TAKE the liberty of informing their friendi
and the public, that tl\ey have removed their
ft»re to No. 54, South Fr»nt-Jinet t next d«or to Ed- Ai
ward Fbx's Auition Room, where th«y have at
thi* time for raie,alargc and general assortment of
European & Eajl India Goods,
Many of which are jnft imported'in the Clothier, A
William Pcnn, &c. fcc.
Oi!l. »7. (5
Samuel Pleafants & Sons, a "
Nb. 74, South Second-Jreet,
HAVE received a supply of Seafsnable GOODS, I'l
which they are now spelling for (ale, on
reasonable terms. OA 17.—4w rf
Wanted, to Hire,
Al.nrge and convenient HBU.3F., in or near °f
thetentre-of the city—for which a generous ' n
rrtit will begivoi; to be taken for a year, or on »f
more for a longer term. Injureof the Printer.
o<a. 17.' «tit
N O, 119 Che.f?itit Street
, NOTICE.
THE guardians of the poor particularly request
> pcrfons indebted for poor taxes to pay
the fame to tke Cotleclors when, called on. The
in e increase of the poor, owing to the late calamity,
1 A t 1 ell ard trufh will induce the pcrfons indebted,
9. to attend to thisrequeft.
By order of the Board,
PETER MIERCKEN, PreMnt.
Southwark, Nov. 17.
EVENING
9 ' S. Lewis
r INFORMS the Public, that his Evening
School will open on Monday next, for the
winter season, at No. 2ci, Arch Street.
NOT. 16. *d3t.
Canal "Lottery---NoT IL
AT/" 11 -!- commence drawing Monday, thezoth
»V inft. Tickets for Sale in this Lottsry, at
Dollar J,- at Wm. BLACKBURN 1 . Lottery
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Second-flreet—
-1 iekets ill the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ten
Dollari, where check books are kept i.j«r regiOer
mg ahd examining in these, the City ol Washing
ton, No. 11. and Pltcrfon Lotteries,, and infornia
tion where tickets may fce had in moil of the Lotte
ries authorised by law 1a any of, the States of the
Union.
rhe business of a Buonca, in buying and
felling all kinds of Public Stock and .Securities, I
dlfconnthg Bills and Notes of Hand, sale of
Lands, Houses, tic. &c. will be duly attcr.d'.-d to,
1, J' Wm. BLACKBURN.
r november 15.
" WANTED~to' RENT,
; A Coach House and Stable,
1 For four Horses, in the neighborhood of Fifth
f and Arsh ftreeti. —Apply to Mr. Evans, at 129 '
■ Arch it nn. 16.
A youngMan,who is acquainted •
with accounts, wifkes employmem. He will give
. security for any ttuft repofcd in him, and recom
mendations if required. Should business offer (
, where extra hours of at'endance are neceflary, he
would have no objedion— a great salary would not
be expe&ed—a line dire<Sed to B. B. and left at
■ this office, will be atten4ed to.
IS- 1
»J/. Croix Sugar & Rum.
' For Sale br
JOHNVNLXON Sf Co.
04. *6. ,j lw _
NO 1 / C E.
The holders of certificates of a
loan to the exiled citizens of the State of South Ca
rolina and Georgia, under an ait of Congress aji
July, 1781, are informed, that by lodging the fam*
with George Simpfon, Cashier of the Baak of thf
United States, they will be enabled to receive pay
in opt of principal and interest, asfoonatthe cert»
icates can be forwarded to Charleston for fettles
ment, and orders received for their difchargc.
November I. 6t f
A Negro Man.
SALE, the unexpired me (four y ears) j
•f a (lout, healthy, adtive egro Man. He
il by trade a Cooper, was brought up when a hoy i
to the farming business, is a good ploughman, un
derftindsthe care and management of horses, and 0
is a good driver He has lately been employed in
painting a new house aad<faints well—he is good
tempered, and believed to be very honest, fold part- -
ly for want of employ, but more for being addict
ed to liquor—For terms apply to No. ia, Dock E
ftrret, near Spruce (lreat.
N"» f> rf
Philadelphia, Oft. 24th, 1797.
ALL persons defirousto contract to famifh Ra
tion# and Quarter Master's Stores, during the
year 1798, for the troops in Philadelphia; Fort*
Mifflin, on Mud Ifiand, Carlille ana Reading, or
any of them, ari desired to deliver their proposals,
under a ft sled cover, ok or befqrc the" scth No
vember next to
TENCH FRANCIS, Purveyor.
The Rations to corjijl of
I pound Flour or Bread
1 pound Beef, or 3 4 of a pound of Pork
£ gill Rum, Brandy or Whilkey
I lb. Candles
I quarts'vjnegar >To h.ndr.d ration
I quart Salt J fclfttjjChN
In the Pref3, -
And speedily will be publirhed by William
Young, No. 52, Second, the corner of
Chcfnut Sfeet,
A VIEW
4 Of the Science of Life ;
On the priuciples eftabliftjed in tbs elements
of Medicine, of the late celebrated
JOHN BRO WN, M. D.
Wiih an attempt to correal some important er
rors of that work, and cases in Hlullrarton, chief
ly felefled from the records of their praflice, at
the General Hospital at Calcutta,
Br W tMjM Tatms & Chai. Mkcham.
To which is fuhjoined, a Trtatife on the aJlioa hi
of Mercury upon living bodies, and its applifa- cc
tion for the curt of difeales.of indireifl debility _
AndadifTcrtatioii onthe fourcea of Epidemicand.
Peftilentialdiftafrs; in which isattemptedtopreve
by a numerous induition of facls, that they ne- A
ver arise from contagion, €ut are always produ
ced by certaia-farrt's, or certain vicissitudes of
Tli7 atmosphere, by Charles Maclean, of '
Calcutta.
OA. jt. jut "
jufl published, ,
And to be fold at the Bcokftores of H. Ss 1 P.
Kice, No. 50, Market-street 1 J. Ormrod, La
No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, and W. Young,
corner of Chefnut and Second-ftrcets,
An accurate System of Surveying;
IN WHICH IS CONTAINED,
I. Decimal fraAions, in a plain, concifc, Ul
and ealy manner. P. 4
1. The extraction »f the square root.
3. Plaia trigonometry, rectangular acd oil- r . c J
lique.
4. An exa<3 method to call up the eontcnta
rf lauds.
S- Field surveying. thl
The whole being performed without the use wi
•f scale anil compafTes, on a table ef logarithm!. 0 f
In which is givetl some account of the variation
of the needle, and the causes of its attraction, wi
By SAMURL MOpRE. ca
h saw
Gardeners take notice !
L 1 fubfcr i bcr - liv;n 2 m Er °'< and corner of
he/J■ ' r ° c ? roe£s » Fopofcs rsoving soon, aaj
V ( having i quantity of excellent, Ctbfeafces and utlv. r
V Ve g eti >W«». With a number of yuaticr tiettinthe
? u"tt "*<" ,h,rn at ".k if not
foldl before Saturday, the * Bth intl. at a o'clock
m the afternoon, they then will be put up atPub
"cVem-ue, on the preraifes.
-' , The i t°!; re and ° irden is s o be let, and itwmc
>3 ate poficmon given, for the rent of which apply
to John Little, no. 40, north Sixth street.
JOHN COJLU&V
nwcrr.ler 1,4, m
. 3t
i ~ TO BE LET, ;
A spacious dry floored Cellar,
at the N. E. corner of 4 th and Arch-flreets!
; _ d 3 t
h removal.
t •
Maurice Moynihan,
INFORMS his friends and the public, that he
has removed ins Store of China, Glals, Queen.
Ware, and Dry Goods, from No. Si Nonh So
cond, to No. 71 North Seventh Street north east
of cherry Alley, .here he foilcit/ the
vcr of his former cu Homers.
noticed' CratCS PUt UP WiA Et the !horte{i
november i.
Jnft PMiJhtd, and now Scll'irf,
■ By BENJAMIN DA VIES
At his Book-Storf, No AS c. '
The AMERICAN REPoStORY*
ANNUAL REGIS'TRRfortb, UNITEDSTA T£S
roit THE YEAR , 7g g .
Containing complete and corredt lifts of theExecs
t,Te ' 1 c g'fl3tive and Judiciary
DKBVRTMEN I S of GOVERNMENT
And . variety of ufeful tables, necessary to b«
s " cry 3ute of th «
MmhllifbrJ rvilt two har.Jfi mt Mngram V ,,
One of which ~ deprive of a melancholy fees,
OAtS 6 tht Ameri " n w "
Landing this day,
From on board th. fehooner Two Friend., Dan
-9 iu 'el Crawley, Matter,
80 lihds. and ) t •
ia pipes 5 Jamaica RUM,
FOR. SALE BY
George Latimer & Sofh
umiemher 9. f
lor lale by the Subscriber
No. 89, South Third street,
A few calks of high proof Brandy
60 Tierces frelh Rice
40 Boxes of Chocolate
A large quantity of aborted window riaf, and
300 pieces fail cloth, N». 1 to 8
Ravens Duck, Mace and Gum Senegal.
nra. Brick, Jun.
" cellent c g ng Houfe r."
Landing,
From on board the ship Edward, at Walnut
ftrset Wharf,
London particular Madeira Wine
of a superior quality, For Sale by the f bfcrib.r'
Robert Andrews.
novcmbiir t . tgcf
FOR SALE, ~
By the Subscriber, at hi. Store, No. 7S , South
Water-street,
A general assortment of China
Ware
Black and coloured Sattins
Do. do. Luteftriags
Do. Handkerchiefs
Do. <Jo. fewinr Silks
, Imperial Teas
Long and Naskeens
Quick Silver, it) tybs
Holland Gio, in pipes
Aflortcd Glass Ware, in caks
White and brown Havanna Sugars, in boss
MoiafTt's, in hogshead* «
St. Croix Rum and Sugar, in do.
London particular Madeira Wine
Sherry and Malaga Wines, in quartr.r ca&s
Red, yellow and pale Bark®, in chcfts
Logwood, &c. Sec.
»CV 7-—tu&f 4 w JOSEPH SIMS.
India Goods,
CONSISTING ©F
Haurial Humhums
Tiekices
Patna Chintz
TafTaties
Punjum Cloths
Choppa Romal, Pulicat, Barhar and Ban
danna Handkerchiefs
tor sale by
JoJhua Gilpin,
No. 149, South Front ftree^
WHIRK MAY BE HAD
A few trunks of French Goods,'
; Consisting of ptaiif and flriped Silk Hose, Um
brellas and Kibbons. Also, a few boxes Sperma
ceti Candles, and a few barrels fmoaked Herrings.
ti weaker la. *end{.°
This Day Publilhed,
And »o be fold by WILLIAM YOUNO, .oruer »£
Second and Ghefnut streets,
Price J-Btis of a Bella r,
Qbfervations on tertain Documents
Contained in No. V and VI of
" The History of the United St*te» f«*
the year 1796,"
In whioh the charge of sracttLATiow aeainft
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Late Secretary of the Treasury, is FULLT
REFUTED.
;r*/rr*Ar by a 1 u 111 r.
This publication presents a censifeftatement
of the base means, praSifod bf-th« Jacobias of th«
United Statss to asperse the charafiers of thofj
pw£»r.s who are considered as hostile to their difor.
piiioizing schemes. It also contains th« cor
respondence between Mr. Hamilto» and Messrs.
Monroe, Muhlenburgh and Venable, on the fub
jeift ef the documents afotefaid, and a series of let
tors from James Reynolds and his wife to Mr Ha
milton, proving beyond the poflibility of a doubt,
that the connexion between him and Reynolds,
was the result of a daring eonfpiraey on the part
of the latter and his associates to extort money.
EA discount of one third from the retail prir e
e made in favor ot wholcfaje purchasers, for
cash. Order, to btaddrci!»d to Mr Yoono.
Augui aj.
VOLUMR XIIr
P 711 LA DEL P£tZ A, J
8A T OW?AV vvgvivo, linrF-MIiER iS.
Gomw Tf6H£NOß's SPEECH „
To both Houfcs of the Lcgiflature of the |<
State of Vermont.
Ft loiv-Cititsrns of the Council,
, v.Y ABimhly, . ■ . V* 1
ACCUSTOMED tciKeganl the public
vi.icc -!il. ni iments of rcfpeCt, I now »p- •
pear fed'orc vou to rel'ign the office o» feiu- ,
tor of tht Unittd States, and accept the (
more arduous 3>ul difficult tafkalloted to the
chief magistrate of this state. While I ac
knowledge with gratitude, this token of
the public confidence, it is with diffidence
and anxiety that I contemplate the difficult ,
tits wlrich I lhall have to encounter in the
difchaige of-the duties attached to it; and
nothing but a firm reliance oil your candor,
friendship, and support, under the present
existing ttate of things, would have induced
me to hazard an acceptance of the impor
tant tiuft : but hpwevyr uncertain maybe ,
the frtccefs of no endea
vors (hall be wanting, on my part, to dif
chnrge my duty with tidelity to the public,
and with latisfaCtion to my own conference.
The general prosperity which atteßus the j
public affairs of 'his state, cannot but afford |
us much encouragement and fatisfadtion.
Freed from theembarraffmertts which attend
ed os in the infancy of our government, fa
voured with the blessings of an excellent |
conftitution —zealously attached to the in
terest, prosperity and glory of our country
free'from the alarm 3 and diftrtffes of war,
from foreign manners, influence r.nd connex
ions, depending on agriculture, the most
certain of all resources ; perhaps few states
in the union can be considered in a more fa
vorable situation, or have fairer prospeCts of .
deriving fubftpntial benefits from a judicious
regulation of their internal affairs.
It has become our duty to consult and
promote th« interest of our fellow-citizens,
by a faithful discharge of the different offi
ces and trusts which have been assigned to
us ; and in the performance of this duty, we
ought invariably to be governed by the con
stitution of this state, which, designating
our various powers, while we adhere to it,
in every legillative and executive aCt, we (hall
proceed on eftabliffied and just principles.
And in all our deliberations upon measures
calculated to promote the happiness and
prosperity of the state with which we are
more immediately eonneCtcd, we ought to
have a constant view to the great interest of
tjie nation, of which this state constitutes,
though not the greatest, yet a very respeCta
ble p»'.rt. All the burthen of national con
cerns is by the constitution of the United
States, delegated to the national govern
ment s to that government it belongs to re
gulate our in:erconrfc6 with foreign nations
to feciire their friendship by every mean
confident with our national dignity, our na
tional happiness and prosperity ; or in cases
of the last necefiity, with the combined pow
ers of these states, to repel all hostile inva
fionsofourrights. From this fame government
we derive an additional guarantee of our in
ternal tranquillity, and the freedom of our
laws and government. The wisdom with
which that government has been administer
ed in the times of the greatest difficulty and
danger—the success which has hitherto at
tended the national measures—the known
experience, firmnefs and integrity of those
who are placed at the head of its administra
tion, ought to inspire us with a proper de
gree of confidence in the future, and to ex
cite us to every patriotic exertion in sup
port of those measures which, under provi
dence, may feeure the national prosperity.
Happily the constitution of this state, and
that of the United States, though embra
cing different obje&s, are founded in the
fame republican principles, and conclude in
the fame important end, the security of the
rights and happiness of the people. Consti
tutions thus coincident and confirming each
other, leave no room for a difference in prin
ciple, but only for a diversity of sentiment
respeCting measures fceft suited to promote
the public interest. There cannot, there
fore, be any just occasion among us for the
spirit of party and faCtion, the greatest evil
to which republican governments are ftib
jeft ; it is only .injudjjiiijj. of thc_t£ndeiicy
and utility of the meafurei of government,
that there can be the prospeCt of a diversity
of sentiment ; while principles are the fame,
the freeft debates and the most critical ex
amination of every subjeCt that may come
before you will be of the greatest use : and
pn every subjeCt while the majority must, in
all cases decide, temperance and candor will
best eonduft the debate.
The necessary business «F Fhe fefllon will
cbme before you from a variety of sources
From the sudden transition of an appoint
ment in the federal government to the of
fice and duty on which I now enter, it can
not be expeCted that I (liould be prepared to
detail to you the public business, which will
demand your consideration. Any commu
nications which may have been made to my
deceased predecessor, governor Chittendon,
{hall be laid before you : And while I men
tion hit name, permit me to pay a refpeCt
ful tribute to his memory. It must be a
pleasing reflection, not only to his particular
friends, but to our fellow-citizens at large,
fhat-Under his administration, this govern
ment has fiauiiffied and obtained a refpcCta
blc chara&er among her sister states. The
public good unquestionably was tW chief
objeft to which his political conduit was di
rected.
Gentlemen of the house of Reprefentntivet.
The state of the public expenses and .'«v«nue
is an objeft which most properly belongs to
your department, and cannot fail to engage
your careful attention- Tlte economy lhat will
prove eventually the most favorable to the peo
ple, is to guard against the introduiiioa of,a
public debt ; »othing of this nature ought to
txift in time of prosperity and peace ; and in
whatever form a public debt may exist, it can
aot fall lis iti op»rirf»>Vr» to prove unfavourable c
to the p 'ople. ' VVhiic the pwWic tspeo'es are d
managed with economy, the wrUft way to ft p- w
port them, gillie,to make the nnnual.prov:!:-
on, always adequite to the necclliry tr;pendi
turct.
Gentlemen if th~ Council antl AJjcnlly.
Jii any mealnres which may tfrtil to tl~-- pro
'mn 1 ion of education, and tlx- tHi>gref» of ufttJl tt
knowledge in this ftaie ; to the encotirajferoens c
of iadiiftry andvfn palify, so neren'-ry to t:>e j p
happiftefs and prosperity of a people *-' to enfirre j,
uniformity a■! It ibility. to,our co-le "of .law?,
without which jaftice camvittm mipir(:3 ! ly ad
tninillercd, and to give in extcli've and lading ®
'tjlfitieiife to the principles nf-virtue rrd reli/i- ''
on, I (hall he happy to co operate in yourci'un- g
cil and labours. ' v
<(U, by our constitution and lavvi, the powers, n
of the different branches of o jr g.-vernment, in
'ypointments in inany refprflf, are to he aswell
jo'w®r.,a* separately" exerci r ed. You will per
mit rr.e to observe, that it Hs from amonj; men F
of principle, virtue an J intcjjriiv, vou will find e
the b-fl public pJßeer) ; and it it is from fuchme.i c
that the wileft measures of government are a-jf
docted, and a fteidy conformity to the ennfti- j
tution and laws of our country is secured ; hy a
faithful discharge, therefore, of the duties, as
wet!jointly as separately, thus de*e'ga;ed you
will exhibit to the good people of this state, an {
example worthy eftheir confidence. i
>
Obfetwations of Poulain Granpre, in the Coun- l
cil of 500, madeJince the late Tornado. <
" I second the two motions of Villers," 1
| said Poulain " and in order to make you the 1
more sensible of the necefiity of the measure <
proposed, I (hall again recall to your re- 1
membranCe the perfidious petition of Dli- 1
ma 3 which was so readily seconded by Du- <
j molard, and the consequence of which would 1
have been the recall of Louis XVIII him- 1
felf. Its objeft was to get the name of <
Duportail struck off from the lift of emi- i
grants, under pretence that he was cast for 1
non-appdarance. But La Fayette also was 1
cast for tion-appearance ; the princes were !
equally so ; and for that very reason, no
doubt, Dumolard demanded that the com
mittee, appointed to report 011 that fubjeft
he charged to irtclude all those, that had
been cast for their nonappearance.
From the MASSACHUSETTS SPT.
THE NEIGHBOR.
" Render to all their dues . —Honor to whom '
honor,"
I invite the attention of the numerous pa
trons of this paper to a fubjeft, which they
willownis at least as interesting as innumer
able others, which they read in newspaper
essays, The Importance and Respectability
of the Clergy.—Should I suggest thoughts,
which some of my readers have met with on j
other occasions, or with which they are fa- ;
miliar, I hope for their candor, feeing oth
ers may not have had the fame advantage.
The Great Superintendant of the uni
verse is pleased to carry on his plans, and to
effctl hio purposes, by subordinate instru
ments and agents. As in the natural world
he could, if he thought best, and that with
infinite ease, have sustained all creatures,
and supplied food for all flcfil, by his own
immediate agency, without the conducivenefs
of kindly seasons, or any care and toil of
the hulbandman ; so, in the moral world,
he could, with equal ease, by his invisible but
powerful influences, effectually restrain from
fin, inspire with all necessary knowledge, and
compel to the performance of duty, and
the observance of order, without rhe power
of the magistrate, er the inftruftions of the
preacher. And it was not to save himfelf
trouble, nor to make the government of the
world, or the production of holiness and
happiness amoug men, the easier to himfelf,
that he appointed such a proportion of du
ty and service to his creatures, obliging them
in some inftanees, to be mutual checks, and
i'n innumerableothers, to be mutual assistants,
so each other. But, as the allwife and be
neficent Creator has endued every creature
with faculties suited to its own and its con
nefted state, afiigned him his proper station
and sphere, and united them all by certain
common bonds ; so, the execution of these
faculties, within those spheres, strengthens
and endears those ties, causes and inoreafes
happiness, to the honor of the Prime Agent.
It is surprising and delightful to observe,
what an extenlive concatenation of subordi
nate causes and agents runs through the
natural and moral world, every link con
necting with others, and necessary in its
place. According to this subordination,
and the plan which the Divine Contriver
has eflabliflied, day and night, summer and
winter, cold and heat, feed time and har
veft,rain and fun(hine, labor andcontrivance,'
are necessary in the natural world, for the
various produdtions of the earth, for the sup
port and convenience of the animal creation,
especially of man. According to the fame
1 wife plan, the wisdom of legislators, the
. power of magistrates, the coercion of laws,
the government of families, the education of
1 schools, the studies, prayers, and labors of
■ moral and religious teachers, reading the
scriptures, attendance on public worship and
divine ordinances, are necessary in the moral
- world, to prefervt) order, to prevent vice,
> to produce virtue and happiness, and to train
I up immortal beings for immortal bleffsdnefs.
- In effedting these important purposes, no
' instruments, it is presumed, have so great a
, hand, as those which are connected with
• religion. They who are put in trust with
- the gospel, are not only expeCted, but must
» be acknowledged, to be the most aCtive, and
r the most fuccefsful agents, in the hands of
, the Divine Spirit, in efftCtingthe virtue-and
- happiness of Iranian creatures. Every one
- who knows what religion is, even in theory,
; but especially in praCtice, knows, that it has
f the most friendly aspeCt on individuals, <md
communities ; that, so far as genuine re
ligion prevails in the heart, in life, and in
communities, so far evil is prevented, and
: happiness experienced. Religion not only
' cemprifes and enjoins ali these duties, which
J we owe to God, but those also, which we
owe to one another. And every one must
[ readily own, that if all these duties were
, praCtised, there would be universal order and
1 j tranquillity, universal love and beneficence,
■ j and therefore, universal happiness. What
ever conduces to the fuppmt of religion,con- In
d-uces to the well bring of mankind. And jfi
what can have a greater tendency to this, ti
than the institution of the gofpcl miniftrjr, I
carried into operation and effect ? What c
can tend mors to tht implantation andgrowth : o
of religion in the minds and mann«rs of a
men, than, the religiou3*inftrnflion, the wife t
counsels, the pious examples, and the fervent r
prayer;., of faithful minders ? MSy it not t
be fairly concluded, that the world is prin- c
cipallyindcbtedtothisorder of men, who, by 1
education'and paafeflion, are the public in- a
ilrudtors of mankind in the things of reli- 1
gion, that this heavenly villtant is still so i
welcome a gueit ? The discharge of the i
miniderial office keeps up public worship, <
and the fan&ifying inditutiqns of chriltiani- s
ty ; exemplifies and promotes the duty of
prayer, of confeffiou and thaukfgiviag ; and
evinte3 the necessity of holding an inter
course with the God of heaven, whose blef
l sing is absolutely neccfiary to render men
profperaos and happy. Cffnfeque'ntly, that
degree of religious ( decorum and order, of
veneration for tjhe Supreme Jseing, and re
gard for the Sabbath, of tenderness of con
fciflnce, and reftr'aint from vvickednefs,
wh|ch yet remains, is chiefly to be aftribed,
under God, to the fame cause. Does not
experience and observation confirm
marks ? Do not social virtue, and true re
ligion, and consequently, peace and good
order flourifh mod in those countriei, dates,
towns and families, where a regular clergy
is mod edeemed, bed supported and attend
ed to ? On the other hand, is there not
much less morality as as piety ; much
lefsregularity and tranquillity, in those hoilf
es, parifhts and dates, where chridian in
ditutions, public worship, and the miniders
of the gospel are undervalued and neglect
ed ? It is pretty generally and readily ac
knowledged, even by those who'fet little or
nothing by religion for its own fake, that
the clergy are a ufeful set of men, cortfidered
in a view ; and on this account they
are willing tie pay them a greater degree of
refpedt and a&tttrtion than they
would. fs true, that mo
ral and relfefij.HS mftrudtions, admonitions
and reproofs, impressed from time to time
on the minds of all ages and characters,
prepares and disposes both rulers and peo
ple, for the ready and faithful discharge of
their refpe£tive duties ; checks and prevents
many vices, which would otherwise prevail
to the great detriment of society ; and en
courages and facilitates the growth of those
virtues, by which individuals and the pub
lic arc made honorably and happy. But as
mankind have connexion with another world
as well as with the present, so the «iiniders
of religion are principally concerned with
the spiritual affairs of men relative to that
other world ; to cure them of their vicious
propenfitics and habits ; to encourage and
aflid them to live as the sons of God, with
out rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and
perverfc nation ; and to build, them up in
holiness and comfort through faith unto
salvation. So that the minidm of relig on,.
bv affiding men to become denizens of the
" Jerufalcm that is above," aflid them equal
ly in beiug uCcful and peaceable citizens of
civil communities below.
The American clergy, particularly of
New-England, have, with very few excep
tions, deferred and maintained the charac
ters of ItarncH,pious and patriotic. They
have, in general, by their good discourses
and exemplary lives, been greatly ufeful to
men with regard both to their secular and
eternal intereds. They have been honored
as instruments ofpreferving peace and good
order in societies. Their importance has
been mod sensibly felt by their country in
several critical periods, particularly in the
J American revolution, at the adoption of the
date and federal conditutions, and at a late
alarming trifis. They are friends to equal
liberty with necessary Subordination. And
I believe it may be said, without flattery to
them, or disparagement to others, that nei
ther the bodies nor the fouls of men, neither
their country nor mankind in general,
have better friends, or greater benefadtors,
than the clergy prove themfelvs to be. v
If any should think that an apology is
neceflary for writing so freely in favor of
the clergy, who are well able to defend them
i selves, I will answer in the words of a cele
, brated writer-} " I have the rather under
- taken this bufiiiefs, from a convidtion, that
I when the clergy are despised, they will de
. generate ; and that with them will decline
the morals, the learning, the religion, and
r the importance of my country."
, From the Farmer's Weekly Museum,
shoes.
; If common sense were to commence noisy \
, patriot, and preach tyranny in this country, j
f I believe it would begin with the tyranny
f of falhion, or what word-coiners might call
e tonocracy. Thanks to the spirit ef liberty,
3 we have gained the redress of many grievan
,l ces. Our mothers and elder fiders can re
, member when they were clasped round the
n waist, and almost reduced to the size of an
i. infedt by this capricious tyrannefo. This
o age ef reason can boad of some improve
a ments. Whale-bone days, the badile of
li ease and elegance, are demolished ; female
h charms are liberated, and may take an air*
ft ing on a fuuimer's day.—l would query
d with the faculty ; (hall we not hear of sew
s er consumptions ?
d Therearc other grievances to be redrefled;
e my toes are this minute complaining of the
■, oppreflion of tonocracy. Nature was pleased
s to give me a pair of feet, the very contrad
d of a Chinese lady's ; falhion and the shoe
makers, fay I mud wear i pair of (harp
n toed /hoes ; they are the ton.—Tonocracy
d is the mod arbitrary and whimsical of all
y " ocracies and falhion and nature are al
h ways quarrelling. My toes are crammed
e together in close prison—they mud be libe
!t fated, or I fliall be obliged to find other,
e than my uftial means of conveyance: tam
d ! not.the only fufferer. Now phyfieians tell
•, ; us, a-free circulation of the blood is necefr
i- j fary for our health and that it should never
be confined in the limbs. Tight shoes, be- c
fides causing corns, arid chafed heels and 1
toes prevent this free circulation. Again, ''
I would query with the faculty ; is hot the v
close confinement of those faithful servants, g
our feet, sometimes the cause of the cramp j
and gout ? If so, let them have ftiore liber- v
ty. Let reformation begin at home. Say '
no more about aridocracy and kingoeracy, 1
the other fide of the Atlantic, till we have
corredted the abuses of tonocracy at home.
Ease and economy in di t-fs, are the fame to
an individual, that frugality and a free con
ditutiou are to a nation ; and I believe there
is not a dwarf or giant of a politician among
us, who will not allow, that we are fleeced
and galled as much by fafl»ion, in one year,
as we are by adminidration in ten.
From the Sporting Magazine.
Philosophical History of the Can is E ]
Genus. :
The late proceedings in the British sen
ate, refpedting a tax on dogs, have set many
persons on an enquiry into the nature, and
the different fpccies of the canine. *elros.
A learned gentleman, who is a firm believ
er in the transmigration of fouls, and who
has acquired the dnpendous art of didin
guifhing, at the fight of any animal, from
what cliffs of mankind his foul is derived, has
favoured us with the following intelligence:
The fouls of deceased bailiffs and common
condables, are in the bodies of setting dogs
and pointers.
The terriers are inhabited by trading jus
tices.
The blood hounds were formerly a let of
informers, thief takers, and falfe evidences.
The spaniels were heretofore courtiers,
hangers on of adminidration, and hack jour
nal writers—all of whom preserve their pri
mitive qualities of fawning on their feeders,
licking their hands and their spittle, and
snarling and faapping at all who offer to of
fend their master.
A former train of gamblers and blacklegs,
are now embodied in that specieS of dogs,
ttiled lurchers.
Bull dogs and tnaflifls were once butch
ers and drovers.
Greyhounds and beagles owe their ani
mation to country 'squires and fox hunters.
Little, whiffling, nftlefs lap dogs draw
their existence from the quondam beau, im
caronies, and gentlemen of the tippy ; dill
being the play things of ladies, and used
for their diversion.
There is also a set of fad dogs derived
from attornies—and puppies, who Were in
pad time attornies clerks, shop men to retail
haberdalhers, men milliners, &c. &c.
Tunifpits are animated by old aldermen,
who dill enjoy the smell of the road pieat.
That droning, snarling species, diled
Dutch pugs, have been fellows of colleges.
And that faithful, ufeful tribe of shep
herd's dogs, were in days of yore members
of parliament—who guarded the flock, and
protedted the sheep from wolves and thieves ;
though indeed of late some have turned
sheep biters, and worried those they ought
to have defended.
An honed Hiberian, member of the le
gislature of New-Hampshire, introduced his
fpeeeh to the house thus : " About two
thousand years ago, if my memory serves
me."
(Ver.) Nov. 6.
SINGULAR CIRCUMSTANCE.
Concord, ( Ver.) 03. 9.
On the 20th day of May, in the year
• f 1794, Sabr;; Woodberry, aged three
1 years and a half, daughter to lieut. Joseph
Woodberry, in Concord, Vermont, got a
button into her throat, of the size of a cop
per, which remained there until o&oWr,the
6th inft. when she discharged it by vomit
[ ing. The button was wore thin in one
I place. The whole time that it was in her
> throat, is three years, four months and fix
. teen days—The abov»- is a matter of fact.
NORTHAMPTON. November 8.
, A daughter of Mr. Dearing [one6 of
Chcderfield, was a few days since, accident
s ly killled by the difchargeof a musket which
f her brother had previously loaded for hunt
- ing, she was about 29 years of age.
On Wednesday of last week, the only
. son of Mr. Joseph of Chcderfield,
t about 7 years old, had his hand chopped
. off at the wrid with an ax, by a son ofMr.
; John Stone, who wa3 at play- with him.
I -
NEW-LONDON, Nov. 8.
Mr. Avery Tinker, of this town, who
. was prefs'd from on board the ship Hope,
made his escape on board a vcfTel bound to
y New-York, and on his return home was
, knocked overboard and drowned,
y The" ship Sally, capt. Bufwell, belonging
[1 to Norwich, was taken 22 days after leav
, ing this port, about 50 leagues to wind
- ward of Turk's island, by a French priva
!- teer brig of 12 guns, and sent to Hifpani
e ola. She came under the Sally's quarter
n and fired a broadside into her before hail
is ing. Capt. Bufwell though armed with t>
;- carriage gijns, tho't prudent to submit to
if such superior force, without resistance.
le He was bound to Jeremie, and had nearly
•- 90 head of dock on board.—The captain,
y two mates and boatswain were kept in the
r. ship ; and the men 12 days after being ta
ken, were put on board the fchr. Byron,
1; capt. Webb, of New-York, where they ar
ie rived fafely, and have now ret!>rned to this
d place.
ft LEXINGTON, (Ke.. ) Odober 7.
-• ExtraS of a letter from a gentleman at Natch-
P ez to his correspondent in this Jlate, dated
y y ugujl 26, 1797.
II «Our news here is, we have had an infur
-- reiSion—we fortfccl the Governor arid all tht
d Spaniards, ten or fifteen day?,, during whicii
.. time they fuffefed no little. We elitained out
terms, and are now in a Hate of neutrality. We
' have our own committee to arrange and deter
mine the affairs appertaining to the inhabitants
" And on the id of next month we eleff a man to
fr lay our grievances before ( Cor\grcf«, praying
rr /or fucc-ur and protection ; as also to have a
constitution formed for us, forri.wl.at fiiuifei xi
some of the southern ltates, which \vill bar ixioit
f*.ittble to us in this quarter. The Spaniards
will not as yet, give up the country ; therefore
ue have (rone as far, f® as not to offend Con
gress. Nothing but the fear of offending Con
grefn fayed the Spaniard* in this quarter, other
wise tl.cy would all have been drove from thii.
Capt. Onion is. not yet arrived, lie is at the
Chickafaw Bluffs."
WASHINGTON, (Ken.) Oa. »i.
We are happy to oVferve the good effedl aris
ing from the eftablrfnment of Zane's Road,
North-VVeft of ihe Ohio By means of it the
communication between this State and the old
settlements is greatly facilitated and improved.
Persons almost daily pass through this Town on
their road to or from Wheeling ; and we even
flatter ourselves that the period is not very dis
tant, when waggons may by this route trans
port some part of the various prcdudls of tbia
luxuriant f oil to our Fellow-Citizens of the Up
per Settlements, in exchange for such of theirs
as may suit our demands. —Loaded Carriages
have a ready passed from Limestone to Chileco
tha, and we are assured by experienced travel
lers, that the remainder of the road is capable
of bjine much (hortened.
The fwito ving account of thediftances of par
ticular places on this road, may be ferviceabje to
those who travel it :
From Aberdeen (oppofitc Miles.
Limestone) to Brufh-Creck, 33 33
—Faint-Creek, - - - 30 03
—rhilecoiha Town, - - 18 81
—Kinnakanick, ... 8 S>9
—llockhockitig, - - - 30 119
—Mulkingum, - - 4c 159
Wills's-Cteek, - - 30 189
—Wheeling, - . jj i 4 t
The above is considered a high ral -illation —
The diftasce from Limestone to Wheeling by
this route, is by some supposed to be much less.
"foreign intelligence.
PARIS, September 18.
In the National Council of France in
the! Church of Netre Dame on the 22d
Frufitidor (Sept. 8) the following were the
proceedings.
The Brefident addrefiing himfelf to the
Fathers of the Council allied their consent
in the following words :
" Mod; Reverent! Bilhops and Venerable
Brothers. Does it please you to proclaim
the Catholic dogma refpraing the obedi
ence due to the constituted authorities."
The Fathers rose and answered unani
mously " It is ourpleafure."
Then the President pronounced the de
cree, prefacing it with some remarks foun
ded on scripture.
" The Council considering &:c. decrees:
Art. I. Every French Catholie owes to
the laws of the Republic a iincere and trtje
fubmiflion. *
IT. The Gallican Church admits in the
number of its Pastors, but those who (hall
have manifefted their fidelity to the Repnb
lic, and who (hall have given the guarantees
prescribed by the laws.
111. The present decree shall be read and
publiftied at all parochial raafies in all the
churches of France."
At the going out of the Vespers on the
fame day a letter from the Council to the
pastors and faithful of France was read, in
which are found the fame evangelical prin
ciples, accompanied with prcfiGng exhorta
tions to charity, and to the praflice of aH
the moral and christian virtues. *
This letter and the decree of the morn
ing were received by the very numerous at
tendants'vvith that interest, which religious
meditation, silence and attention so well.e
vincc.
Brion and Limodin administrators of the
central office of the canton of Paris yester
day iflued a proclamation inviting all virtu
ous citizens to affiit them in reprtflbig im
morality, which has risen to a fhaineful
height. Tliey notice particularly the infa
mous pra&ice of the loose women of attend
. ing public places dressed in men's clothes,
. which practice they declare themselves de
termined to suppress.
September 10.
The anniversary of the Republic will be
celebrated the ift Vendemiart. Numerous
: peals from the artillery will be heard the
whole morning. At twelve the D'ireftory
| will go firft to the Invalid Hotel ; thence
to the Chainp de Mars, pafling through the
street Vauginjrd and the Boulevard. Three
invalids chosen by their comrndes, will be
crowned before the ci-devant chapel of their
hotel. They shall afterwards be condnfted
in a carriage to the Champ de Mars. There
the games will begin. They fliall (hall be
compefed of military exereifes and evolu
tions, consisting of foot-races, horse races
( Aid chariot races. The vidlors will receive
the premiums at the military school, whith
) er they fliall be condu&ed with pomp,
j It is said, that the position of the ci-de
vant Bretagne is extremely alarming. Crime
r will soon afftime there a public chara&er, if
1 the consequences of the events of the 18th
_ Fru&idor do not destroy there the effe£t»
. of the great conspiracy.' These are the
. principal features of the a/Hiding pifture of
r "that country. Landings continue on the
. coasts ; great numbers of Emigrants have
> landed near Erqui, arms and ammunition
3 are also landed, and collections are making
. in the country, as far as poffihle of those
■ articles. The Chouan Generals are all at
their pods ; the famous Richard commands
on tne coast and diredfs every movement.
The country is terrified by the priests
and the ci-devants ; alrnoft every where tht
tythe is catifed to be paid, ■,the Emigrants
s struck out of the lift by Cochon, or sent
back by- England overflow the country ;
they take only the precaution not to re
main in the cities they formerly inhabited :
j they exchange relidences with eadh other.
Wheat continues to rife with an extraordi
nary rapidity ; and it 13 the servants 01 a
t pents of these nobles who buy publicly, ex
(, clufively and at any price.
COUNCIL OF ELDERS.
, September 17.
0 Guinaut in the name of a committee pi
poses the pafling of the resolution of the
a 29th Fruftidor (Sept. 15) which an mis theTi'msedure certain citizen-, for alk-dpr
• d difturbanccs in the pn'miry
liolden. It was one of the eleftion tricks
of the counter-re volution ills, where they
could not carry the eledtion by dratagem,
to provoke disorder, and then to have those
patriots incarcerated who were moved to re
fidance by their provocations.
The resolution qf the 29th prairial ref
pe&mg divorces is approved. It fettles,
that i.i all demands for a divorce which havtf
been or (hall be made upon the Ingle plea
of incompatibility of temper and character, (
tlie public oflicer shall not pronounce the di- 1
voice before fix months have elapsed after
the date of the left of the three afts of non
conciliation, required by the articles 8, 10, J
and nth of the law of the 20th September t
1792. ,
Broftarec demands leave ®f absence. ■
Several members oppose it. The Council 1
order a podponement. 1
The resolution of the 17th Thermidor, '
■which authorizes minor children of which
the parents are dead or absent to contrail ,
marriage one month after the refufal of the •
fimily tribunal to consent, was negatived. j
s
PARTS, Sept. 13.
The transported members were to have
fiept yederday at Orleans. They travel with ' t
every poflible comfort, except that of a good |
carriage ; their carriage is thefame conftruft
ed for the vi&irns of Vendome, by the hon- i
nctrs gens, who took no great care to make 1
it an easy one. They are moreover allowed '
every liberty compatible with their situation, J
even that of writing, whieh has been some
what redrained, as there has been some rea
son to think they endeavoured to make an t
ill use of it. Orders have been given to j '
have them well treated. However some of '
their friends have spread a report that they
are not allowed to come out of the carriages
even for the necefiities of nature, which they c
are obliged to fatisfy by means of a hole. I
■Upon this the aridocraey of the small towns I
began set up a cry, and curse the cruelty
of the republicans. This report ,has pro. '
duccd some iroprefiion in many places ; how- ]
ever, the people in general t'Kke very little
concern in their fate. (
BUONAPARTE J
AND '
THE VAC HA OF SCUTARI.
_ 1
VENICE, Augud 29. |
The public will not be displeased at be- 1
ing made acquainted with the correfpon
dcnce which has taken place between Ge- '
nejal Buonaparte and the Pacha of Scutari,
the brother of the celebrated Makmoud. '
It preceded the order of proteftion pub- ;
lifhed in favor of the fubje&s of the Porte,
and particularly the Greeks and Albanians. ]
The following is a copy of the Pacha's let- 1
ter : , '
GOD IS GREAT, AND HIS WORKS ARE 1
WONDEJtFUL.
To the General in Chief Buonaparte, pro- (
teftor of the law of Asa—to the Pow
erful man of the French Republic—to ,
the general of generals, the sublime con- i
dpueror of the regions of It.ly, the mod
faithful general in chief, great, merciful
#nd beneficent ; to him I address this e
pistle.
Prince of Generals. ,
May you obtain all your wjfhes !—May ,
this sincere salutation reach you ! May I
karn the interesting intelligence of your be
ing in good health ! This I desire on ac
count of the friendlhip that (hall for ever u
nite us, and of which I wish to give con
stant and mod signal proofs.
The friendfhip which unites the Ottoman
Porte to the Republic of France, was al
was faithful and sincere.
The hand of fate directed by the hand of
God, in annihilating the Venetian power,
and in fubje&ing that People to your laws,
has established new relations between the
Ottoman Porte and France, and the har
mony existing between them is augmented
by the approximation of the two nations.
In this moment, this new union compels me
to a(k of you a new favour. This favour
which I am desirous of obtaining from my
sincere friend consists in this—that I wish
my fubjefts and my merchants who traffic
with Venice to be protested in their persons,
and in Iprafticc of their commerce—that
hospitality be granted to them, and that
they be regarded with a friendly eye. Such
is my requed, and to obtain it I have writ
ten this letter, and sent it to the bed of my
friends. When these few lines reach you,
and when you shall have understood them
according to the spirit by which they were
dilated, I hope that the merchants of Scu
tari, my fubjeds, will be favorably received,
protected and honored. AfTured that I
shall obtain what I solicit from you, this
letter will, in the mean time, serve to express
my gratitude.
God is great, and his works are wonder
ful ! May the friendfhip that unites us last
for ever and ever !
Ibrahim.
Written on the fird day of
Muharam, in the 272 d
year of the Hegira.
« ' ■
Ceneral Buonaparte's anfiver to the Pacha as
Scutari.
1 have seen with much pleasure the sen
timents contained in your letter. The
French Republic is the sincere friend of the
Ottoman Porte, but it particularly edeems
the brave Albanian nation which you gov
ern. . f
I have learned with sorrow the misfor
tune which has happened to your illudrious
brother. That intrepid warrior merited
a fate more worthy of his courage ; but he
has died the death of the brave /
You will find fubjoincd the order which
I have issued, that the Ottoman flag may
be refpefted in future in the Adriatic.
The Turks shall be treated, not merely as
other natious, but with a peculiar partiall
- On all occasions I shall protect the
Albanians, aud it will always afford tee
pleasure to have opportunities of teflifying j
thcefteem and great refpedl I entertain for i
your jhighnefs. y
I beg of you to accept, qs a mark of t
friendHiip, four boxes of muskets which I I
have sent to you. , ,
BUONAPARTE.
<:
LONDON, September T4. c
The Abbe Syeyes and his coadjutors, the I n
Committee of Safety, who have proposed the
plan of tranfporution as a rneafure of national V
iVcurUy, have evidently adopted an old faying '■
of this country. We have heard it given as a
toait from the Citr Chair—" T he land we live
in ; and may those who don't likeit, leave it!"
As the Direflory have the power of wanfport
ingthe profcrihed Deputies to any place which
they may pleife to prefenhe, 1 here is not a
doubt but that they will take special care to °
fend them to some diQanf country, where they : _
will never more be heard of. For certain it is,
that if they are fufiered t.-> remain in Europe, p
they will very soon deteift the forgery 011 which p,
the Triumvirate have founded t'ueir accufa.ions p,
against them.
How well the French Triumviri have t'egard- j '
ed the Letter of the Conftituticn, of which
they profefs themielves such zealous defenders,
may be judged from the following ExtiaiSl,
under the Section Lrgiflative Power .
in- The Mttnbeis of the Legislative Body,
from (he moment of th«ir nomination to the <
30th day after the expiration of their funiflions
cannot be brought to trial hut according to the
forms prefcrihed by the following articles :
In- They may, for criminal aits, be fcized
in Jlagr an ti dilecli, but notice mutt be given of
it, without delay to the Legislative Body, and I •*"
the prosecution cannot be continued till aftci
the Council of Five Hundred have propof«d
the bringing to trial, and the Council of Anei- S<
ents has decreet} it. w
IIJ. Except in the cafe oifliig'/ixj deltftum, T
the Members of the Legislative Hody cannot be c
carried before tlje Officers of Police, or put in a a .
ffate of airtft before the Council of Five Hun- p,
dred has proposed the bringing to trial, and the
Council of Ancitnts has decreed it. nl
U4- In the cafe of the two preceeding Arti- „|
cles, a Member of th? Legislative liody cannot
be carried before any Tribunal hut the High f n
Court of Juilice. ' m
115. They may bt carried before the fame t ] ;
Courts for atfsof treafon,dilapidation,manceu- c
vres to overturn the Constitution, acd offences
againllthe internal frcuiity of the Republic. i n
Under the 6th head of Executive (Pow«r we w
find the following Article: ' \
145 If theDireilorv is informed that any con- J)
(piracy is plotting against the external or inter
nal fatety of the State, ii may iftue warrants of j,
fuinmons, or Warrant; of Arrejl against the
presumed authors or accomplices ; it may in
terrogate them, but it's obliged, under the pe
nalties egainlt the crime of arbritrary detention, 1
to fend them before the Officer of Police, with
in the delay of two days, to praceed according
to the laws.
N. B. All the Deputies arrested have been
ordered to be tranfporred out of the Country,
'without e-t'e.t the form of a trial, or being told
tbe nature of their offences.
All the Emigrant Writers in London have \
pledged themselves to prove, that the late tri-
umph of the French Diraiiory will ultimately p
operate to the eftablifliment of that very system
of Government, the feeds of which it was his
object to eradicate. Thu storm of the moment
fay they, will but featter them like those of the j,
thistle, to take root on more expansive ground.
The numher of Editors of papers in Paris S
condemned to tranfporution, are forty one, — (
the fate of thirteen remains tn lufgenl'e. The
Hedaifeur continues the official print-
In rrifcr to judge of the cleirance which the t j
several steps taken by the Direiflwry, have made
in the Councils, it is only ncceffaty to ftaie,
that out of the Council of lildrrs whieh consists r
of no, thare wereonlv u6 to be found, who
: jflrmiiled upon the Mandate of tht
Dire£!ory to pass the Decrees ordered hy them,
that of the Co ncil of Five li'. ndred only j;
14c'could be found to perform the fame ungra- c
Lcious and dishonourable talk. t
LONDON, September 30.
It is expefted that the emperor Paul will r
assist Anftria in the new conflift, with a
■ powerful force. a
Great ehanges have been made in the mi- f
niftry of France, since the triumph of the j 2
diredlory over the conftitutiou.
By this day's iVlail.
BOSTON, November 11. j
F.xtraft of a letter from captain James Scott, :
jun. to MefTrs. Bambridge, Anfley 8c Co. 1
" Since my last of the 12th inft. from '
Quimper, lam happy to inform you, that t
after a severe contest, my vefiel and cargo
was by the tribunal at Quimper cleared the i
20th inft. with costs. I am now on my way
to Morlaix to prosecute ray business, and |
Ihould my captors not appeal to the court
of Caflation, shall ai early a< I can load and
proceed on my voyage, and in the mean time ,
Ihould our commissioners arrive, have no
doubt but every thing will be well, at any
rate now I expedt to hold the property to
gether."
On the road to Morlaix, August 26, *97.
N. B. The above took place before the late
Tornado—tinder one party is injuflice
under another.
CAMILLE JOURDAN.
One of the members sentenced to be ba
nished, but who has concealed himfelf in an
obfcui-e retreat, has sent a very spirited ad
dress to his conttituents. He fays, a hor
rible crime has been committed :—'l hat the
triumvirate of the directory, aided by the
armed force, had surrounded the halls of the
legislative council, prevented their afTem
bling; and had banished fifty-one of its
members :—That a few slaves of the directo
ry, deliberating with bayonets at their
bitafts, had dated to assume the name of
the legislature ; and to pass laws :—That a
greater stretch of military tyranny never dis
graced the annals of history—and of all con
temptible forgeries, that was the mod con
temptibk, which charged the immortal de
fender of the republic, as being at the head
of a cenfpiracy in favor of royalifm.
It is known that all the accusations a
, gaind Carnot, Pichegru, 3cc. are sheer for
r gerics. But when you want to beat a dog,
it is easy tfc find a stick.
! NEW-YORK, November 12.
Letters received in town by the late ar
s rivals at Bodon, appear to contradia, at
lea!h the ilated intention <>f tb> British
m«3V»t;reri 'vhich have crofied '.he channel
since the retnrrt of lord Malmeftufy : f or
they inform that a TIIH cabinet council had
been held, in which, it was determined to '
profs-cute the war with viVor. 1
We fully believe in this account of the 1
disposition of the B.itifh court. Tile err- 1
cumftances attending lord M.ilmefWy's dif- *
! million (it amounts to that) wc are certain 1
would produce the above-mentioned refolu- t
tion.
t
NORWICH, November i + . c
Pumpk'ns Distilled. g
We are informed that a Gentleman in the v
county of Windham, who owns a diilillery, v
has undertaken to diftill Pumpkins, flatter- t
ing himfelf that some kind of li quor cin be c
produced therefrom, which will amply com- I
petifate him for the experiment. It is ho
ped that success will crown his endeavours, g
—*
- ' O
Xijt ffimzttt. 5
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENIN9, NOVEMBE.It 18. C
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Friday, Nov. 17. fr
Mr. Williams laid, though lie understood the b
Senile had not yet formed a quorum, yei he w
wilhed that they mi.rht proceed to business.- ,
They had already, he phi'trved, appointed a 0
Committee of Revifal and Unfinilhed Business,
ayd he favy 110 ohjedlon ta the apr s
pointrnent of a Committe of Elei9'oiu, el'peei- ci
ally as there was business upon which they 01
might immediately aft- If the appointing J,,
of this Committee were apreed he would a]
then move that the llonfe adjourn til! Monday, »•
?n order that the two Committees might fit to-
morrow, and be able to make their reports at *
their uext meeting. Mr. W. moved thit a
Committee ofEltilions he appointed. r(
The f-nfe of the House taken, it was d
in favour of the motion, and accordingly a Com- 0
mittec of seven members was appointed, viz.
MefTrs. Coit, Varmim, J. Williams, Hartley, a j
lient. Ha>lwin and Evans.
On motion, the House adjourned till Mon
day. f<
a'
Saturday, November Bth. ti
The Senators of the Uninited States in
town are, From the State of a
New-Hampflure •
Maflachufetts Mr. Goodhue.
Connefticut Mr. Tracy. a
Rhode-Island Mr. Foster.
Vermont Mr. Paine.
New-York Mr. Lawrenee.
Pennsylvania Mr. Bingham.
Deleware Mr. Latimer.
Kentuky Mr. Marlhall.
XT ,i„ f Mr. Martin, and
North-Carolina | Mr Bloodworth .
South-Carolina Mr. Read.
Georgia Mr. Gunn.
Tlie Hon. John Hiksy, late a Ssnator in the '
the Seaate of the United Statei, from the iiate of ]
Maryland, is cleclfd Governor of that (late. f
1
Extra&of a letter from a rtfpeAahle mercantile ]
house in London, to their eorrclpopdent in this 1
city, dated Srpt. 7, '97.
" the conduS oi the board of commiflioners, '
fitting here for grarriig compensation to Amcri- <
can claimants, for lofles and damages fnflained by
the captures and detention of their property by (
Britilh cruisers, has been very gen crow., as far as (
they have yet proce.ded, and wc trust they will .
continue, and that no eitfeen will have caufo to
complain of Britiih honor. *
Having received compenfatioti for two veffeh (
and their cargces, fe.lcd by Britilh cruilrrt, in h«- (
half of our friendsin America, the one cnpturc.l (
1 and condemned, and the other brought in fc?re
and paid for at prime cost with to per crnt profit, 1
prior to its being brought before the commiflion- I
ers, in both of which they have given the. claim- 1
ants the price the goods \Vould hive foM for had <
they arrived at die market they were destined for, ,
with lnteicft. thereon, from the time they \vo«!d .
probably have been in cash for it, by a regular sale
at that market, a'-d all cod of fait incurred in the
pro ecution of appeals and claims, in one of which
cases the claimants wore allowed for flour, which ,
cost per invoice average 4»/-, ftcrling. per harrel, ,
the price for which it would have fold in Nastz,
li t/4 per barrel, deducing freight. &c. have a
clear profit of 100 per cent, to the claiman s
All which we have received on presenting the
eommiflioners' cirtificitcs at the treasury in bank
notes f6r the claimants."
Tlie Aurora, in characterizing the profcrih
r«l deputies, has demonflrated that they were
not royalists ; but, it is of little importance
whether they were or not, since our attention
must in future be occupied by the designs of
their oporefibrs. infamous retailer of
blafphcmy, Surge lit proftm, has dufe'd them
Royalists by a daih of his hafly pen, biit
the real cause of their obnoxioufnefs to him, in
field of being a prediliflion for royalty, is their
able support of the ir.terefts of this country
Hence l>!s joy at their deftruiflion —which'le
has juflificd on the most despotic principles !
But this tried ar.d proven servant of infidelity
needed not to have given us this new evidence
ofaftrocious depravity, in order to a jull appre
ciation of his chara<sler. Firm to the interests
of Jacobimftn, he triumphs in the idea of his
old mailer's .gain bearing the sceptre of terror :
: he already revels in delightful mafiacres, and
• multiplied profcriptionseven in distant imagina
tion make his heart leap for joy. But difoider,
, turbulence, misrule and murder are going out
of date, even in France, however different an
alpedl may strike the view of the cursory obfer
r ver. Republicanism, called liberty,—and li"
f centinus insolence called equality, are fall de
i Cayin?. " The fafcion et thiA world palfeth a
- way." The mad-cup philofophtrs of France
have afiaffinated Rcpnblrcauifm, and by their |
infiniteexccfles and atrrocious enormities, effeil
ed what the united valour of European chival
" ry attempted in vain. Slavery is alike odious,
in ail its forms: or if one ihape of it can be
more intolerable than another, it is to groan un
-- der the bitter gripe of oppreflion at the moment
we are compelled to trumpet forth the blefiings
- of-freedom. This is prcrifely the cafe in France:
'' the upriticipled Despots in power, triumphantly
exult on the iuperior blefiings of liberty and Re.
publicanifra,—while they are dragooning their
ilaves into a surrender of one half their proper
r- —or seising them by hundreds, totranfport
it t'.em to inevitable misery and death.
For the Gazette of ih Statss, j
Mr.^Fenno,
Mr. Bache, and lii.s correfpondems ap- ' ■*
pear to be m great dilftrfs, leaf! the refptft a
ftewn to the President of the United States, , v
by the people of every city town thrd' t
which he pafle.d, on V»?3 journey to his own v
home, and on Ilia return to the feat of gov- •Ji
fliould be construed into fatisfaftion I
with the government, and an approbation I
of its administration. I f
As Mr. Mr. Bache is but a youth of yes- a
| tcrday, when compared with tlie old patri- p
' ots, who firft Hood forth in defence of the "
| invaded rights of their injured country, a- ft
| gainst the ufiirpation of Great-Britain, I ci
who am grown grey with years, and was
witness to what I relate can tell liitn, that
the testimonials of refpett which have re- v
cently been offered to the President of the
United States are no novelties to him. q
Previous to the meeting of the firft Con
gress in the year 1774, the members from
MalTachufetts (our venerable President was
one) were met, escorted and feafted (if you „
please) in all the principal towns and cities
through which they palled ; the fame pub
lic marks of refpeft were again manifefted
with increased splendour, at the meeting of
Congress in the year 1775, and in the year j<
1789, when the President was firft elefted g]
Vice-President, a troop of horse waited up
on him at his feat in Braintree, and escorted g
him from thence, to the Governor's in Bos
ton, accompanied by numbers of citizens;
from thence he was attended to Cambridge,
bya large and refpeftableconconrfe of people, g (
where he was again met by another troop
of horfc.
Throughout the state of Conne&ieut he q
received the fame marked attention ; the .
citizens of New-York were not less zealous
on that oecafion, than they have been to do
honor to him as President ; trfops of horse tc
and refpe&able citizens went an far as ] a
Kingfbride and escorted him into the «ity of
New-York. b|
Every person who is acquainted with the
republican manners and habits of the Presi
dent, can witness for him that every kind
of fhowr and parade are contrary to his taste
and inclination, and that they can be agree- j r
able on no other ground, than as the will of
the people, manifefting their determined re
solution to support the government and the
administrators of it, so long as the adminif- r
tration is conformable to she constitution.
As to Mr. Bache's polite alluiion to Darby A
and Joan, I eonfider that as highly honora- l '
ry to the domestic and conjugal charafter 0
of the President, who has never given his Q
children or grandchildren cause to blush for
any illegitimate offspring. I
a
The following article is copied from an Eng
lish paper, entitled 7he Cambridge In-
teilicincsr, of August 19, one of the v
moll decidedoppofition paper* in England.
From the completion of the remarks, may \
be augured what the sensations of the Edi
tors, and the people of all parties mutt ji
be, at reading the account of the late hor- h
rible political tornado. I
"Onemight have hoped in theprefent si- j
tuation of politics, in France, policy, if not -
principle, would have prevented the French
from again celebrating the anjiverfary of
that atevrfed day the tenth of August. J
It is holding out to the Royalists and the
Pricfts, an example which no doubt they
are anxious to follow. They hare as great "
a right to overturn the free government of
1 797» by perjury, infurreftion, and maffa
cree, as the republicans had to overturn the *
equally free government of 179J, by the
lame most infernal means. Indeed if any
apology could serve for fitch nefarious con
duit, the present faftion have a better right
to it, than the former. We cannot now "
enter into an inveftigau'on of the reasons for
the late conduft of the Direftory, or de
termine what measures may be tiecefTary to.
keep the volatile and flagitious Parisians in
order, but most certain it is, that the viola- J
tions of the principles of the eonftitution,
by the Dired\ory, in tampering with the *
armies, forming them into deliberative af
ftmblies, ordering their march towards the
capital, their /burning explanation juftifying
the coiidud of their commander under the
plea of ignorance, awing, if not threaten
ing the grand councils of thtrepublic—t;hefe
violatious are so flagrant, that no one who
knows any thing of the matter, will dare
to charge Lou 11 XVI. with condufk in a
ny degree similar. In both cases we affirm,
theconftitution ought tohave bcenpreferved.
The concerns of a nation surely are fafer in
the hands of a freely chosen representative
body, than of any other party or dcfcrip
tion of men.
From Springer's New-London Oracle.
AMERICAN LEGENDS.
In the early times of the town of N-rw-ch,
the inhabitants used to make puddings of
such an erormous bigness, that it almost ex
ceeds the belief of modem crcdulifts. One
of these is reported to have been so large,
that when a considerable number of people
' had eaten on one fide, it fell over and, killed
three men. After this fatal accident, it
1 was ena<3ed,that a pudding should not ex
" ceed twenty cooms of corn.
1 In H-dd-m, the people who attended
' meeting, used to carry apple-pies, (of that
fpecieß commonly called turn-overs) with
- th<-m,for their dinners, of such a length,
- that when they were eating et one end, the
e hogs would frequently be preying at the o
r ther, being out of the reach of the proprie
tor. Upon this, they pafled a law, that no
person lhauld carry a pie to meeting so large
,e but that when they were dining at one end,
1- they could keep the hogs- away with a fix
>t foot ftaff at the other.
;s
e: The largejl man in England, lately difco
!>' vered by the Papers, ought to be sent to
Paris, to button his ivejlcoat round the Di
reftory, convince them that a nation
„ t of such feljows as him ar« not easily to be
reduced.
I Frotn a London Paper.
One Sunday evening, a young gentleman
' was taken into cultody at Eton, for playing
at cards, fur which he vvas flogged, who,
while the mailer was in tlie aft of flagella
tion, gave several kicks and struggles, at
winch the master said, " Ah, fir, you may
•fi'lfflf Sat I'll cut.
The wife of a person at Ratcliffe was, .T
few days ago, delivered of a child without
arms. The mother being told of the im
perfeftion, after the fi.rft (hock, exclaimed,
" Well, thank God, I've one consolation
- Pitt can never make it take out a li
cense for wearing gloves!**
MARRIED—On Thursday r»ening lad, at
Whitby, in Blockley township, Philadelphia
county, by the Right Reverend Dr. White, Mr.
Wimmm l.tvis, of this city, to Mife Salit
Gbay, daughter of Gaorgc Gray, esq.
" Medicus" on
GAZETTE MARINE LIST
' '
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED DAYS.
Brig Fame, Knox, Havanna 24
SloOp Fox, Norton, Boston 15
CLEARED,
Brig Jason, Majeftri# Port au Prince
Prince Frederick, Ghiolfe St. Thomas
Fair Hebe, Eldridge Amsterdam
Abby, Williams Martinico
Schr Polls and Sally, Hollet 1 Norfolk
The (hip America, Hardie, and, brig Ma
ry, Quandrille, for Hamburg!!, left New-
Castle on Thursday last .
Providence, November 11.
Arrived fliip America, captain Arming
ton, from Amsterdam, 68 days. Sept. 6,
lat - 59> s°> lo "g- 8 > spoke the (hip Perse
verance, captain Harwood, bound to Ham
burgh, 40 days out from Philadelphia, all
well.—Sept. 2J, 1at.48, 27, Jong. 32, 30,
was boarded by a French fliip, mounting }8
guns, the captain of which, after having ex
amined tfi? papers, let them pjfs without
injury, N
NOTICE.
THE Stockholders of the Bank of the United
States, are informed that accurding to the
flatute of Incorporation a general Election for
twenty five will be held, at the Bank
of the United States in the City of Philadelphia,
on Monday the firft day of January next at ten
o'clock in the forenoon-
And purfrant to the Eleventh fe&iqn of the
Bye Laws the Stockholders of the said Bank
arc hereby notified to aflemble in general Meet
ing at the fame place on Tuesday the second
day of January next at fire o'clock in the E
vening.
By order of the Board of directors,
G. SIMPSON, Calhier.
Second fundamental Article.
Not more than three fourths of tne Direflors
in office, excluCve »f the President, lhall be e
ltgible for the next succeeding year, but th«
Direflor who (hall be President at the time of an
Ele&ion may always be re-elcfted.
Philadelphia, nov.iS. 1797. ftE
The Commiflioners
For alleviating the diftreft of the Citizens »f
Philadelphia, have removed" their qffice to the
OH Court Hotlfe, Hiph Street.
EDWARD OARRIGUES, Secretary.
13th mo. 18. i w .
Now Landing,
£nd For Sale by the Subscribers,
30 hhds BRANDY
«sf»
7 hhds. Carolina TOBACCO
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
ntvemeer 18.
For Savannah, in Georgia,
THE SHIP
Sally Butler,
Captain Chisholm,
ncw excellent
accommodations for passengers
Sails on the loth of December. For Freight or
Passage, apply to ROSS & SIMSON.
IVbo havs to difpofc of t
A small invoiee ef GLAUBER SALTS
INDIGO, and a parrel of HOLLY WOOD.
November 18.
For Londonderry,
THE BRIGANTINE
jj§§|fs uk er,
vjjj^S s Wilciam Whittik, Mailer.
- Aftronggood veflel, about two
hundred *®os, to fail with all convenient speed, a
preatjpart of her cargo engaged—now lyi»g a" .
Willing and Fraacis'swhaif. For freight or pal
fage, apply to the captain, or
JOHN SKYRIN,
Landcnkcrgcr s ivbarf,\
Who wants to Charter.
A Vessel of about three Jhundred tons.
UOV ' 8. §
f Muftcal Instrument Manufatlory y
167, Arch-street.
TO THE LOVERS OF HARMONY.
HARPER,
INFORMShis friends and the public, that he hu
now ready for sale, n few of his new invented,
* and much admired fide beard Piano Porte?, with
t Pedals, patent fwcll, fonopahant and French harp
- (top, which for sensibility of touch, brilliancy of
tone, (implicity and durability of cor.ftru&ion, th«
superiority of which.he flatters himfelf, a (ingle tri
al will convince the unprejudiced judge—As they
3 are manufactured under his immediate infpe&ion,
t of the very be®; seasoned materials, he can fell on
h reasonable terms forCA»». Inflrnmants repaired,
1 tuned, jtc.
' N. B. Second hand Piano Fortes taken in e*»
change for new.
ntvrmtcr iS. lawimo.
"o The Canal Lottery,
;e "Will re-commenci drawing, on Monday
J > the 20th inft.
ix ROBERT BROOKE,
Check C/eri.
Nov. 11. dt2t>.
to The Medical Leftures
In tV e Univerlity of Pennsylvania, are poft
-3n poned until the lilt Monday in November
be next.
Otflober 14. 3iW4\ir.
*Clocks and Watches,
Of everv description, opening for Sale, by
EPHR AIM CLARK,
At bis Nezv Shop- Corner of
MARKET and FRONT STREETS.
ALSO
An e.xtenfive and general aflbrtment of
Tools, Files, and Materials.
CONSISTING OF
Cluck Movements and Clock Dials, eigh/ day
Vid thirty hours cast brass, forged work and Pin
ions, Bel.s and Hands, Cat Gut, screw and draw
Plntes, Turkey Stones, Pumice, Em«ry and Rot
ten Stone, Springs and GUlfes, Chains Keys, Seals
&c. &c. Spring and Handing Clocks.
Oa. 17. eotf
For Sale, by the Package,
For calh, or good notes at sixty or ninety days*
I Vl*. •
Book and Jaconet Muslins plain ")
, stripes, and Checks f AfTorted ia
do. do. Tamboured J> oat kai?e>
do. Ladies handkerchiefs, & | "
gentlemen's neck do. J
Jaconet chintz muslin for home and the Weft
India market, Pullicoteind lirten hmdktrchiefs,
for do printed do. do. common purple and
chintz Jhawls.
The above goods entitled to drawback on ex
portation. Also a few scotch cambricks and an
■flortment of muslin by the piece.
The whole of the above being a consignment
from the manufacturers in Britain-
To- be seen at William Blackburn's
Office, No. 64, South Secend Street.
Nov. 6. lawtf.
FOR SALE,
By the subscribers, No. 21, Penn-ftreet,
The Cargo of the Ship Ganges,
John Green, commander, from iirngal,
Conjtfling of
Baftas, of various qualities & prices
Coflaes * Punjum Cloths
Sanahs Suzz.y do.
Hunihums Charconna Dorea
Blue Cloth Tanjibs
Chintz and Calicoes Mulmuls
Mamoodys Checks
Maharagonges Patua Hhkf«.
Ginghams Mulmul do.
Guz.zer.3s Bandannoss
Gurrahs Sillerfoy
Piniafcoss Choppa Romals
•Salgatchys Sooty do.
Gillie Romals Perfiani of variooi colours
Mock Pulic'ats
100 tons SUGAR
90,000 lb. PEPPER.
Willings S3 5 Francis.
The Piece Goods
Of the Ganges arc now open and exposed to file st
that commodious store the north weft corner of
"szfarle»t nnd Fourth ftrteti. Nov. 10.
L A N D FN G, *
From on board the ihip Cleopatra, Samuel Newell,
commander, from London,
60 tons of the best clean Russia
HEMP
6c rafk» of bottled BROWN STOUT.
For Sale by the fubferibers, No. ai, Penn-ftreet.
Willings 3 s Francis.
Oct. 31. d
Just arrived,
From Port-au-Prince, and for Sale by the fubferj
bers, No. »i, Penn-ftreet,
641 hogfeeads,")
B>tie*of« (Prime Coffee
5»3 barrels f
646 bags J
Willings & Francis.
oa. »g. $
TOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBERS,
Madeira Wine, firft quality, In
p'P* s ~ . .
Madeira Wine, New-York quality, in pipe*
Lifhsn WINE, in pipes
°^ e * importation, inboxw
Spanish Wool, in Bales, fuita'ble for Hatters.
Willings & Francis,
Penn-ftreet, No. it.
Nov. t. w&stf
SILK.
ANY person having raw Silk of Ameriean or
European produce, may hear »f a pur
chaser who will give a liberal price for the fame.
Application to be made at the store of Robert
Lewis, jun. No. 70, Pine Street wharf, any
time before the 12th of January next, i
Nov. 10. *co3t.
From Marfcilles.
THE CARGO
Of the Swediih barque Gnftavus Adolphus,from
Marftilles, conlifting of the following articles,
is diitharging at Mr. Latimer's wharf, and for
laic by the fubferibers-
BRANDY, well flavored, of 2, 3 & 4th proof
Claret, in hogflieads
Ditto, in cases
Frontigniac Wine, in cases of 30 bottles
Olive Oil, of a superior quality, in balkets of 6
and n bottles
Capers
Olives
Almonds
Dry Verdigreafe
Writing Paper
Umbrellas (Silk) of 48, 30 and 31 inehtt
Taffeties
Long and Ihort white Kid Gloves for Women
Silk Stockings
Handkerchiefs, in imitation of Madrafs
Artificial Flowers and Garlands •
Ostrich Feathers
Ribbons
Perfumery
Scented Hair-Powder and Pomatum
Manna in forts
Cream Tartar.
BENJAMIN MORGAN &
ROBERT ANDREWS.
September 27. £ eotf
'School'Books and Stationary.
W. Y OU NG,
No. 52, Second-street, corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS now ready for sale, a very large assort
ment of inglijl, French, Latin and Creek
SCHOOL BOOKS. Also, fach elementary books
on Science, as are generally read in the academies
and colleges throughout the United States.
LATELY rUBLISHED,
Sheridan'* Dictionary, the sixth edition, in one
large vol. S vo price 3 dols.
Ditto, large 11 mo price 1 dol 7J ets.
Ditto, common, price I dol. JO ets.
All forts of drawing, packing, printing, and
writing Paper ; Bookbinder's Boards, Paflehozrds,
sheathing a:id blotting Papers; printed Blinks,
blank Books, Wax, Wafers, and other articles, of
the best quality, used in tie counting house, or
U .|.y Cataloguesof a mifcsllaneouj collection of
BOOKS, with tke price of each affixed, to be had
by inquiring as above. Oft. 24. 3*vv6w
LAW BOOKS,
Latest London and Dublin seditions.
H. Cff P. RICE, BoakjcUcrs,
No. 16, South Second, and No. JO, Market street,
HAVE" just received by the h:e arrivals knm
'London and Dublin, their lprin£ importa*
tion, confiding of a variety of the tateft anil most
approved Books, which,jadded to thole alrea
dy on hand, forms the moflextenfive colledhon ev
er offered for fa'e in rht* country. The/thei dbre |
beg; leave to notice, that troni the nature of their
conne<Sicnsin Dublin, they are enabled to felllrifli
editions (as they have hitherto done) at the very
lowest prices. The following are among the latetl
publications.
Vefcy, jutTrs Reports in Chancery, 2
Peake's Cales at Nill Prius ; Ridgeway's Re rorts
in the time of Lord Hardwicka ; Vloyer's Proclers
PraAice in the Courts ; Barton's
Trcatife on a Suit in Equity ; Tidd't Pra6lice of
the Court of Kirk's Bencli in Personal Anions, 2
parts coaiplete ; Ward's Law of Nations ; Cruise
on Uses ; modern Reports, i% vols. London edi
tion.
H. and P. Rice expert t« receive by tl>e firft ar
rival from New-York the 6th vol. complete of
Durrford and East's Reports, the ad part of Gil
bert's Law of Evidence by Loft, and a number of
uew 'publications.
June %6.
The History of Pennsylvania,
By ROBERT PROUD,
IS now in the press, and will be publifh«d,
with all convenient expedition, by ZvCHA-
Riah PouLsnN.jun. No. 80, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia, where fubferiptions will continue
to be received, and at the Philadelphia Library, !
according to the printed proposals, until the
work is ready for the fubferibers.
July 18. 2awtf
THIS DAY"WAS
And for sale by THOMAS DOBSON, at the
Stone House, No. 44, south Second street,
EVENINGS at HOME;
OR,T HE JUVENILE BUDGET OPENED.
ConQCing of a variety of Mifeellaneous Pieces for
the inftrudlion and atnufensent of YOUNG PER
SO NS—Six Volumes handsomely printed and bonnd
up iu two volumes, price Two Dollars.
The variety and excellence of these pieees are
such, that the book needs only to be known to be
rniverfally efleemed one of the most valuable pub
lications th >t can be put into'the hands of young
persons.
" Delightful talk to rear the tender thought,
To teach the jjoung idea how to (huot,
To paur tk« frefli inflruAion o'er the mind, ,
To hrstheth' enlivening fpirit,and to ix
The generous purpose in the glowing breast."
Thomsov.
Augul 24. mwf4w
THIS D AT IS PUBLISHED,
By THBMAS VOBSON, at the Stone House,
No. 41, fAi<K Second street.
Letters and Conversations,
Between several Tnng tndiit, on improving and is
terefting fubjefti.
Tranfiated front the Dutch of Madame dt Camfon
with alterations and improvements,
Printed onJine paper, and neatly bound,
PriU one iullar.
AMIDST the tide of modern Romances, parrwbig
tales «f extraordinary distress, or of dtfporate or
artful villainy, which " harrow up the foul," and
which it would be for the honor of young ladies to
be ignorant off this little book comes forward 10 so
licit notice, where, in a variety of incidents, not ex
ceeding the bounds of real life, the proper, becatff
elegant and natural dignity and importanee of the Female
ibaraHer is exhibited in an interc(lingp*int of view,
and prrfents examples of real and attainable ciccl
leiue.
The publifiifr was fomuch pleafedwitb the per«-
sal, that he was fierfuaded he (hould do a pleating
fervtee to the community by funding it into circu
lating ' August t4 —111W4W
Aft laying Duties on Stamped Vellum
Parchment and Paper.
A FEW copies of the above ail may be had a)
he Office of tho Gazette of the United States, No.
119, Chefout-flreet. July 19;
The Partnerlhip,
UNDER the firm of FREEMAN & Company,
is diflolved by mutual consent. All persons
having any demands against thefaid House are de
sired to render the fame to T. B. Freeman ; and
those indebted to the House are desired to make pay
ment to him—By whom business will in future be
carried on,at hisjtere, No. 39, South Front-ftrect.
Augyjl 7. eod4w
Richard and 'James Potter
HAVE removed their Counting House to Ne.
45, South Fi/th-ftreet.
August x. w&f6t
Lancaster, Harrijburgh C+ritJle,
Sbippenjburg and Sunburj
STAGES.
THE public are requested to take notice, that
the partnerlhip which has fer some Hme sub
sisted between Mathias Slough of LancaStr, and
William Seer, is now diffelved: but, not as M.
Slough infinvateste the public without just cause ;
as will more fully appear by a letter en the fub
jeft from M. Slough to W. oeer, dated the 29th
December last. a recital of which is not now deem
ed neceflary. Any gentleman who wiihes to be
more circamftantially informed of the merfcs of
this business, by applying to W. Deer may have
the perafal of M. Slough's letter, and then can be
at full liberty to determine whether or not W.
Seer is not perfectly jaftifiabie in attaching him
felf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to ShippenC
urg, or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous sappers the
public were pleased to confer on the firft effort in
this business, William Geer, in conjunction with
Messrs. Reily, Weed and Witmer, is determined
to profecnte and carry it on, with every care, at
tention anddifpatchthat a zeal to oblige the pub
lic can pollibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided
with carriages, horses, and every appurtenaoee to
render the paffagv fafe and rommodious, inform
those wno wife to patronize and encourage the
undertaking, that they can take their feats at
George Weed's, the sign of the White Horse,
Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Monday
and Friday, to proeeed to Lancaster, Harrifburg,
Carlisle and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto
eftablifeed.
For the further accommodation ot the public,
a Stage will start every Wednesday from the house
of Samuel RlSer, in Harrifburg, arrive at Sun
bury in Northumberland county, every Thursday,
and return from thenee and arrive at Harrifburg
every Saturday, so that passengers destined for
Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed o« Mon
days.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 47, »797-
N. B. This Line of Stages ftart9 from tht
house of William Ferroe, in Lancaster, on every
Tuesday and Saturday morning at 6 o'clock, pro
ceeding to the westward; and from the houfu of
Mr. Samuel Elder in Harrifburg every Wednes
day morning,' oft the fame evening arrives at Pa
trick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns
from thence on every Thursday : pe«»irming the
fame routinfedaily at in its sour from Philadel
phia. mwf
THOMAS Herman LEU^PFR,
North fif t h street, corner of Noiili «liey, No. 34,
HAS FOR SAI.E, 1
IPXCELLE" l"red Wine incaftsand
J Voxes, fix years old
r hiteGra ' sWiiK in calks
Tidtlenburgs
RulTia Sail Cloths
Ravens Duck
Bag Linen
Hcfiuns
Diaper ind Table Cloth
Empty l^ags
Common German Cloth
affcrtmentof black coloured Ribbons
Fine German Laces
About twelve tons Ruflia clean Hemp
Clover
Italian Soup, in small boxes, for family us«
Window Glass 29' —
TENKBIFFE WINE. ~
LANDING- at Walnut-street wharf, TjENK- ,
f!FFE WINE, of excellent quality % in pi«>cs a\\d
half pip C », for kie I>j JAM£S YARD.
Owl
Will be Landed,
From on board tfie (hip AtUve, Capt.Blair,from
ao halff® white Ruilia oieau Hemp
a casts* Clover Seed
For Sale by
Thomas 'Herman Lctiffer,
North Fifth street, No. 34.
Tune 1(1. «
TO BE SOLD,
And ttnmsdiate possession g 'mtn,
AConveftient well finiihed- Brick f enetnent,
with a cook house and other out houfes.fitu
atcd in a pleasant ]»art of the borough of Wilming
ton, in the State of Delaware—The lot of ground
has forty feet front on Weft-Qreet, and extends
through tfce square to Pallore-iftreet, on which is
crc&ed a Aable and carriage bonfe.
ALLEN M'LANE.
Wilmington, Aug. 30.
Imported in the Jhip Pigoa,
And for sale by John Morton, No, 116, South
Front street,
Hvfon }
HyfonSkin ( TEAS
Yowrig Hylon I
Imperial J
April 20. eotf
Fer sale or -to be let on ground
rent,
Aiialuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-eift corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
House square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there are at
present two small two story brick houfei, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Alfa, for Sale, --
Two three story Brick Houses
With.convenient stores, wharf, &c. situate on
Witer-ftreet, between Mulberry and Saflafras
streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and continuing thaf breadth caft
ward nine:y-five sett, then widening to the
'south thirteen ftfet fix inches. These houfet
ave the convenj«nce of a public alley adjoining
on the north fide, and aie a very defirablc fitua
. tion for a merchant, flour fa<Jlor,or othert who
may have occasion for storage of poods. This
property will be fold on very reafonablc torms
forcalh. For furtherinformation apply to the
printer. . I
July jt. miiwtf
TO BE SOLD,
And pojfejfton given immediately,
ALARGB two story brick Houfe,haudfomely
fituatedin Princeton. Th«re are four rooms
and a large entry on each floor, and five rooms in
the garret, a range of back buildings 51 foet in
length, and apiaziaof 57 feet. There is a pump
in the yard, an excelleut kitchen garden, at the
farther end of which are a carriage house and two
Sables, one of which is new, 44 feet long, with
flails in the two stables for »7 borfes. The fcea)-
thinefs and pleasantness ot its lituation, and the
number »f genteel and agreeable families in ard
n«ar the town, render it a dcfirahle retrceat for a
gentleman from the city. The commodioufnefs of
the house, its central position, and the largeness of
rfie (tables, make it every way fultablefcr a tavern,for
which it has always been tonCdcrd as a capital
ftaad. Inquire on the premises, of
ISAAC SNOWDEN.
Princeton, Ang. 15. 19 —diwaawtf
City of VVafhington.
SCHEME
Of the Lottery, No. 11,
For the Improvement of the Federal City.
A magnificent dwell'tng-koufc 10,00 c dollars,
Sl caih 30,000, are 50,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cast 15,00® 40,00e
I ditto 15,000 Ik calh 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & call) 10,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 4c cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 Sc. calh 5,000 10,000
I cask prize of ro,ooo
1 do. 5,000 each,are • 10,000
10 60. 1,000 - - 10,000
to do. foo - - 10, Oof
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
%oo do. 50 10,000
400 do. is • • 10,000
(>OOO do. 10 - 10,000
ryffcoo do. 10 • 159,000
»6»739 Prizes.
U, *6l Blanks.
50,500 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour thofcrwho miy take a quan
tity of Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be
the last drawn ticket, and the 30,000 the last
but one :
And approvednotes, focusing payment in either
monsy or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will
be received foi any number not lefsthan 30 tick
ets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpccimen of
the private buildings to be ertfted in the City of
Washington—Two beautiful designs are already
lele&ed for the entire fronts on two of the publk
squares; from these drawing-it ispropofed to ercr)
twocentreand r ourcornei; b«il4ings,as soon aspof
fible aftgr this lottery is fold, and to convey them,
when .complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ir
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel
Lottery. A nett dedu&ion »f five per tent, will
be made to defray the necessary expenfes.of print
ing, &c. and the furplos will be part of
the fund intended for the National Ursiverfity, to
be erected within the city of Waftington.
The real feeuritiesgiven for the payment of the
Prizes, are held by the President and two Direft
ors of the Bank of Columbia, and are Valued at
more than half the amount of the lsttery.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tieketsmay be had at the Bajak of Cohan-,
hia ; of James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter
Gilmau, Bolton ; of Johi Hopkins, Richmond :
and of Richard Wslte, Coder's Ferjy.
mwf
FOR SALE,
By BENJAMIN CLARK, ,
Ho. 55, the corner of Chcfnut mJ Front streets, c
A large quantity of Clocks and t
Watfch?*. Alfa, a general assortment of Tools, c
"Eiles and Materials, coßiiP.inj of Clock Move
ments, eight day and thirty hour brass pinions
and forge work ; EU'Hsy clock and watch Dials, J
Springs, Hands, GlalTet, Pumice Stone, Emery,
Uottcn Stone, Cat Out; bench, fland and tail -
Vice*; Turns, PUersChainsSeals,Keys r «Stc. &c. 1
*** Apprentices Wanted,
november 3. f&'tutf
The Philadelphia, Alp. an > and 7 uclertun '
M,A I L STAG E.
rHF. proprietors be7 y leave {0 inform the public, that
they have efablr/ved a Stage between Pbiladei rhia, j
At/ion, Batfto, Hampton, Speedwell, and Martha Fur
nace, IVadivg River fitting mill, and tiietown >f T. »*-
erton, in Neiv-ferfcy, to go one* a week, and are provi
ded icitb good borfes, a comfortable carriage, and a care
ful driver, for the conveyance <*f the mail, pajfixgrrs, and
goods. The Stage will fart evsry Tbnrfday, at IO
o'clock, A. M. from Mr. Daniel Cooper's Ferry, and
lodie that night at Joel Bodine's. at Longacoming ; and
on on Friday, at 6 0 clock., P. 71/. arrive at G'lleh E
vans's, inieeper, in Tuclerton, dip ant from the-city 5 4
miles, (from the Atlantic 6, and from the F.afl Griufmg 1
Plains 7 miles) where are good accommodation for tra
vellers, and whers are commodious and fafr pajfage boats
provided to convey pafj'e- gers to Capt. William War
rington s house, on *1 uc leer's lfland, adjoinining the At•
I antic, -where arc good accommodations, and a convenient
place to bathe ; the fporif&an who ivifbes to regale bintfef
with fowling andfifbing, tsay at this place be highly gra
tified, there being at alm<f e\try fcafin of the year fowl
andfifb in abundance. — Tlfb Stags on its return,farts
from the aforefaid C, Evan}** in Tuckaton, every Ttuf
day. at 6 0 clock, A. M.tirejkfafls at John Bodine s, <st
IVading River Bridge, lodge that night at Longacoming,
and at I o'clock, P. M. on IVedn.fd.iy, arrive at the
aforefaid Cooler's Ferry. It is preftimed thai no route oj
an equal diflance will be left espenfive, or farnijb the tra
•jtlLr with a greater variety of amusement, as he 19ill
not only have a pleofant fail to the at!ant. c from Tucker
ton, but have the euriafity of feeing on the road thHhcr a
number vf capital furnaces and serges, and or e fit Ming
mill, incomplete ord. r, and at work ; gentlemfti, too, who
are otunrrs, or factors, of any of the aforefaid iron wo* ks,
are filiated to encourage and f port this sage (Ly tab ch
they can be so well accomvwda'ci!j the continuance of 1 vbieb
will mueb depend on their aid. The rates of peffengers
anß b.tggagf are as fallows : For a passenger from the
afoi efaid Da .iel Cooper s Ftrry to Tuckerton, including
14 lb. of baggage. Two Dollars ; for way prffengers
per mile, Four Cents—lso lb. of brggage eqvalto a pas
senger. Pof age of letter», newspapers % \S>c. will be
agreeably to law.
N+B. Tbt mail ooffesfrom the Old Ferry.
THOMAS IVARDLE & Co.
Tuckerton t Sept. 18. OM.$. —lawtf
~The Norfolk"Mail STAGE.'
'-pHIS Stage ft&rts from the GEORGE Tavern,
JL at the corner of Second and Arch Streets, in
Philadelphia, every 'TyfJsf, Tburfday, and Satur
day, at 3 o'clock, in the irorning ; arrives at Tro
ver the firft'day, at Snowhill the facond day, at
Northampton Court House the third day, on
ehe morning of the fourth day the paflsngcrs find
a fafc and comfortable packet to convey them to
Norfolk.
A packet leaves Norfolk for Northampton ferry,
every Tuefdiy, ThurfJay and Saturday, and the
Stage start* from this ferry for Philadelphia, every i
Monday, Wednesday and Friday ;'puts up at Snow
Hill thefirft night, at Dover the id night, and ar
rives in Philadelphia in the evening of the third
day.
Thediftaoce on this route, between Philadelphia
and Norfolk, is to miles left than on any Itige route
between tholt places.
Too much cu iiiot befaid in favor of the road,
which is lfioft excellent indeed. The proprietors
willingly engage to return the whole fare to any
passenger, who, after having performed this route,
will fay that ho ever tra felled in a stage for the fame
distance, so good a road in America.
Anguft 11. dim. eotf.
l£rlkine's View of the War.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By ROIIERT CAMj'BFLL k Co.
No 40 South SccoHd street,
[Price 31 CentsJ
A View of the Causes and Confluen
ces of the present War with France.
By the Hqnorable Thomas Imiskine.
May 1 s $
STATE TR IA LS.
Sold b W. Yoong, Bookfcller, No. ji, South 3t
cond-ftreet,
Tste Pennsylvania State Trials,
CONtaiiiing the impeachment, trial,and ac<juit
al of Francis Hopkinfon, Judge of the Court of
admiralty, and John Nidiolfon, Comptroller Gen
eral—ln one large 8 vo. vol. Pries, in boards, 3
dollars.
W. Young has for sale, a general afTortmentof
Books. Also, Stationary, retail and by the pack
-1 ege, well aflortcd, and entitled to the drawback if
1 axparted. July 7 —*
For Sale,
) *
, That vuclltnoiun plact, called Vandegxift's
I FIRRY,
ON Nefhaminy cr*ak, 18 miles from Phi
ladelphia, ob the New York port road,
, containing 74 acres and 94 perobea. Upon the
premises are a large two tiory stone houl'cr occu
pied as a tvern, and a good one ftorv (tone kit
chen, a large frame liable with agooiltlirefliing
floor, and some out buildings—also a well of
good water, and an excellent ice House. On
this place is a motl elegant situation fora gentle
man's feat, commanding a view of the Nelham
iny to its junflion wiih the Delaware, and thence
acrolsfb the Jersey shore. h hasthe privilege
of one half the toll received from the bridge.
Fer terms apply to the SnWcriber,
MORDECAI LEWIS.
y.iy 14. itJWtf.
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBUIDGE with much pleaf
urelnd refpefl, returns her sincere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
she has received during four years refidenae in
Philadelphia; and afiure6 her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, {He has made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars. —Every branch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended to by M?s.
> Groombridge and matters excelling in thfrir
refpedliveprofrfifions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Streets.
June sth, 1797- Jimfrf
The situation is perfeflly healthy ; aedmade
more agreeable by an extenfivc garden and lot
of grexund adjoining the houle. /
JuJI Publijhed,
And to be had of Messrs. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Bookfcllers in t'le
city .price one dollat, twmty-five boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH IiARTON, m.d.
Jvns to.
Philadelphia, OS. 13.
THE subscribers inform their fritnds ami cuftc*-
m' rs in and country, tha'. their {lores are no y ,
open in the city, and others are daily opening, at; d
that from present appearance ®f the prevailii g/ ;
difoider l ave reason to hope, their friends nia y
fhorfly come to the city with perfeel faf ty. By
ievcral late arrivals, have received frel.i
fup.plics of GOODS.
Robert Smith iit Co. P. IV. Gallaudet & Co,
John Davis Co. Sitgreave* & French*
Neil I & Smith, George Dob/on,
IViltbcrger and Smith, Thomas Ryerfon,
Alex Bilflandatt'd Co. T. R. Harder.berg.
"Jacob iptrry and Co. John Smith and Co'
Owen & Jona. Jones, Thomas Orr 9
Keppele Zantzinger, William Barker iff Co.
Adam Zantz:nger, Thomas Arniat iff Son.
John Fries, J. Miller, jun. and C».
Benjamin ISfJ. JebnJbn.
Oe). 14
POYNTfcLL's
Paper Hangings Manufaclory,
No. 70, Chefnut-ftreet,
IVhere he has for Sale,
AVERY extensive stock, of every colour, and
of the molt approved patterns, suitable for
every part of a house, with great variety of bor
ders to suit.
ALSO
A handsome "afTortment oi the mod fafhiooaMe
Silver Grounds London and Paris Papers, and
very best p'ain Green and plain Blue,
With Pannel Papers a rich variety ot Eorders.
Nove-" her T. eo6t
Young Hyson Tea.
40 chfft* ot a fupeiior quality Alio,
100 do.of Hyson,
Imported;() the IVoo'.'lrop Sitr.s, and forfait by
the fubferiber, corner of Second and Pine
street.
C. Htiigbt.
nc-vtmher 6. cots
Imported in the (hip ?vi an Chester,
Benjamin Snewsll, Master,
From Bourdtaux, and for sale by the fubferiher,
No. ii Wafnut Street..
Bonrdcaux Brandy
Iri(h market clavet in cases Entitled to
Medoc wine, in do. Drawback.
Sauterne, do. do.
Thomas Mui-gatreyd.
WHO H4S FOR SALE.
Sherry Wine in pfpesand quarter calks
Rota do. do.
Pimento in bag*
4000 bufliels Liverpool fait.
' Aug. 24. tut&stf.
To be Sold at Pablic Vendue,
(If not before disposed of at private sale)
ON fiiday, the firft of December jaext, et fix
o'clock in the evening, et the Merchants' Cof
fee House, in Philadelphia, Forty Thoufai.d Nine
Hundred and Thirty Nine acres of LAND,
now or late in the County of Wafnington, andNCop
monwealth of Pennsylvania, and rn the watert-of
Frelh and Wheeling Creeks and Ten Wile Run,—
These Lands are fertile and well timbered, and were
patenteed early in 1787, except 3700 acies or therea
bouts, which were patented »» *79 9 « o |le fourth
ot the purchase money to be paid at the time of sale,
tor thercfidue ft credit of one, two and three months,
[ will be given, on interest and good fcturity.
Oftoher 6. 3awto
' To be Sold at Public Vendue,
6 lf not btfon disposed of at pt 'matt fait)
|N Friday, the nrlt day of December, at fix
o'clock in the evening, at the Merchants' Coffee
House, in Philadelphia, Twenty Si< Thnufand Se
t van Hundred and of LAND, in the
' State of New-York, between the northern bounds
of Pennsylvania and the Su(quehanna, now, or late,
in the lownfhipi of Hamd«> and Wanen,and coun
ty of Montgomery One fourth of the pwefeafe
money is to be paid at the time of sale ; for the ic
(idue a credit of one, two, and three months will be
given, cn iaterell and good fccuiity.
O&o&e 6. 33wtS
Peale's Museum.
THIS valuable repository of the worlds of Na
ture, so well calculated to delight the mi§<i
and cnlargo the underflanding, is opened daily, as
usual. It stands in an airy and healthy filiation,
and free from the epidemic that at present afßicls
the city; it may, therefore, be frequented with
" the greateftfafety.
As an Amufcment, the fludy of Nature is the
mod rational and plealing : as a Science, the most
sublime and inflru&ive. It elevates the mind and
expands the heart. They
u tvtom Nature*s ivorht can charity ivitb God bimfef
" Hold Onytrfe"
I Many interring additions have lately been
' made to this Mnicum : and the feathered tribe,
& containing a variety of the mod rare and beautiful
lubjedi* is now very a< 4 .vantageoufly arranged.
* Waxen Figures, of Men large as life (some of them
" cads from nature) are here dressed in their proper
* habits, and placed in attitudes charadtcritic of tkc ir
refpe<slive nations. H:re may be feca the North-
American Savage, and the Savage of South-Ameri
ca—a laboring Chinese, and the Chinese Gentlo
s man—the sooty African, and the Kamtfchadale—
with some Natives of the South Sea Islands. The
■ immehfe variety and interefling jiiverfity which
, this Museum offers to the view, may be seen but
; tannotbe defcribrd with full efFed.
Price only I-4th of a doilar.
Sejrt. 28. law
Davis's Law Book Store,
1 No. 319, H'igh-Str&t.
GEORGE DAVIS,
TJEING bulled for some time past in
X) tions for removing into his present house, has
been under thcucceiTity of poffrponinguntil this day
informing the gentlemen ofthe Bar generally thro'
the United States, that his ipring importation of
law books is now arranged and ready for iale, du
terms that he trusts will entitle him to tholikeprc
freence he has experienced for leveral years past.
Catalogues, combining the most varied coHec
tfbti ever imported i 4 ito this country, are printed
and will he delivered on application.
" June 27. law
Boston Glass Manufactory.
THE of the United States are hereby
tliat the manufacture of Window
, Giafs is now commenced at the Glass House in Bol
ton.
' It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boston Glnfs, as it is so well known
throughout the United States to be in every refpevft
greatly fupcrior to any ever imported from Europe.
It will be cut to any iize commonly used ; and
r may be constantly had by applying to Charles F.
c Kumeß, at the Glass House.
Orders from the difcant States to be add re fled to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-street, Boston.
Boston, Sept 30,1797 O 4 saw6#r
? JtfrJJrs. Timothy and JVfafen, Charhjlon • Mtjfrs.
i Hodge and Baylan, Halifax, N. C. Alejfri. Willrtt
and 0* Connor, Norfolk ; Air. Ellis Price, Alexandria .
k I\le£rs. Tundt and Broivn, Baltimore ; Mr. Hopkins,
Nexv-York ; and Mejfrt. Hudfun G&edivin, He *'-
ford; Mr. Seymour, Savannah ; are requtf.td to infers
the ah one once a 'week C warir. Tie ttecnutiti t* It f*r
il arJttv tit Ed'riar.