'• o'clock
of the £Bs & Philadelphia Daily Advertises&
■
NVMBEA 1 4 2 3]. FRIDAY EVENING, MARCH 31, 1797. [Volume XL f<
FOR HANTBURGH,
Danijh Brig Johanna,
—. John Andreas Tbiejfen, Majler,
WITH a Mediterranean pass, Is no u ready to take
In her cargo, of which the greatest part is al
ready engaged. For freight or pifiage apply to the
o«ptain on board at Perot's wharf, between MafJtJ"
s and Arch-street, or to
i Thomas H. LeufFer.
| Fifih-ftreet, Korth, No. 34-
MarcW». §
Lorenta Matzen, Majler,
At Willing & Francis's takipg on board part of
} hir cargo. For Freight apply to
PHILIPS, CRAMQND & CO.
March 10
~jWn~craig
\ XT AS just imported from Rotterdam, via St. Tho.
) tO. maj, and for sale on reasonable terms by the
I package,
Platillas Royal
Haerlem and German linens
Rouens
Poll and ProPatria Paper
Wafers
Quills
Oziers for Hoops, in Bundles
Coffee Bags
He has also for Sale,
Best Red Clover Seed
Old Madeira Wine, fit for immediate use
Teneriffe Wine of firft and second Quality
Coffee in Bags and Hogfteads
Jamaica Spirits
Connecticut TAAjtine Soap
Window GlafsJ^r
Two Trunks Patent, Silk and Cott on
Hosiery
i And for Sale or Charter,
Shi P s J °ftP hus & Catharine,
Both ready to feceive Cargoes
M "ch 16. j 4 w
Notice is hereby given,
EVM't"'": 6 Wd of ro prieters of the
Eastern Div.fion ct of Ns.v-Jerfev Tij»i .
Wl bemad = « .thar next fluted rne c t. nir> which com
mences on the rfnrd Tueiday in M,y next, beinj- t.„ lix .
teenth day of the «o ß th ;of which all petfons earn
ed are desired to trite, otic. JAMES PAR Kilt
Perth-Amboy, March 23, 1797. $ Rej? . r _'
A Quantity of Brandv,
J-UST& 2 d proof, ' >
O* -rjj, . 1 \J_ '-• > M pea \ ,
Jamaica wi pfooTj in "rinus 1
Old Hock, in cafei of 40 dozen each
Glass Tumaers, in pints and half-pints
"Window Glass, in boxes, of different sizes
Hizlenuts, in sacks
' Whiting
, > in hhds
White C
tc Spanilh Brown J
For Sale by PETER BLIGHT.
January 4 5*
Printed Calicoes.
J O H N M Ft. L E R, Jan. (, Co.
IVc. 3 Cbsfnut-Strsjtt
Have tor Sale
FIFTY TRUNKS BeatN afToVtei, tcry low on ffcort
eredii. Marcn h \
For Sale by the S übferibers,
In Penn r ftreet, No. 21,
LONDON particular Madeira Wine in Pipes, Lis
bon in Quarter Calks. '
SILKS.
Bandannoes, ChovoUte and Blue
Taffaties, .a anl; ?.ilc!i
Choppa Romans
MUSLINS.
Santipore Handkerchiefs
Dacca do.
Sanipsre Mulmuls
Nanfooks
Tanji&s
Patna Table Cloths /
Do. Opium in C?fes
WILLINGS is fRANCIS.
March 10. taw
Te£,< Dollar? Reward
FOR apprehet Sing and delivering to his mailer a
black lervar.t Jjot, named Jack; abiat 14 years
«f age, a smart, MW, likely boy. He liud on when
he went away jrning, a bluejaakat and trow
fers, and a white carried with him a bundß;
containing a and trowfers, and some
other articles unknoWHfc lis mother / lives at Lewis-
Town, and it is may try to get on bbard
some vefiel going The above reward and
reasonable charges w'i.jßfcaid on delivering him to
his matter, at Ne. 23UK Street, Philadelphia.
M.atfh at. ' S 4 f..
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of fa celebrated Mr. Dubois, late D-Wtift to the
King 44,R0yal Family of France, member of the
College-H Academy of Surgeons at P»ris,
Keeps a ipplete.aflbrtment of every neceffjry
to be used for the
Preferfition of the Mouth and Teeth.
and Human & ivury Teeth ;
Bentri/ ' E powder ; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
fweetefe the mouth and prefetving the te«tk—he
also fu fl hes Brushes and foft SpongM.
* Uvea in Chefnut-fire€t,°No. 135, afceve
Fou.? ; reet.
N|tSber 26. tts
~T" c L A RTF
OF THr
Vintage of 1792,
/_ In cases of 24 and 30 bottles eack,
FOR S Ahk BY
JVlarch 29 n
For Sals, by
George Defchamps,
Nc. 91 north Sixth-Jlreet,
Nova-Scotia prime Salmon in barrels and half-barrels
Smoalced djtto by the'dozen or single one
I)rj- Oodfifh by the small or large quantity
, ( I'lneand coarse Sals
Nova-Scotia Plaiftar &c. also,
30 Hiids of prime Codfiih, just imported, aod nt For
(hipping t-o apy market. March 2 thtf
Dr. Perkins' Patent Metallic Tra&ors.
DOCTOR PERKINS of this city, who has the
traftors/or lale, requests those persons who wiih
to purchafeor receive any information refpe£ling their
efficacy, to call on him at his office, No. 14, South
Fourth llreet, between the hours of seven and nine in
the morning, and from two till three o'clock 111 the
afternoon, as his profefiional business renders it incon
venient for him to attend at any other hours.
The public may be allured that the pp&pr has npt
laid more of their efficacy in his advertifemeats, or
pamphlets of certificates, than their merit richly de
serves ; they are worthy the attention of every gentle
man to keep in his family and particularly to sea far
ing men and planters.
March 16 jtawtf
EOS SALE BY
Philip Nicklin Co.
I"H,r id } r s
17 Tabs QuickfiJvtr
1 Chests Bandanno Handkerchiefs
A few chefb Manchefler Goods, well afTorted in Cor
duroys, Thicksets, Ginghams, Mullinets, Dimitieß, &c.
3 Trunks black Sewing Silk
*Bo Crates Queen's Waie, well aborted
10 Tons Sheet Lead
Nails aflorted flat and ftiarp points
London Partiular") Madeira wine in pipes and hops-
India Market j ' hea k
40 Pipes and io Hogsheads Tcneriifc Wine
10 Hogflieads choice Port Wiae
7 Tierces Snake Root
a 6 Calks yellow Paint
9 Soxes and 12 Bundle* writjn* Slates
I kox Ink Stands and Note Prttes
14 Bales Sail afiorted, No. I to S
February 11. mvv&ftf
Important Public Document.
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
And for sale
At the OfScc of the Editor of the Gazette of the
Unitecj States,
No. 11 g Chefnut-Srreet,
[price ONE 3 O U.AR AND FIFTY CENT®]
A FEW COPIES OF THE
Receipts and Expenditures
OF ina Jimx-f*- —** ~~r " *
J- V. , wincn an account can he
Xc nijie up. February »i §
MRS. G R A T T A N,
Refpeflfully informs her friend?, and the public in
general, that on Tusfday lh<> ivth day of January,
flie proposes opening, at No. ;y. North Sixth
ftreet,
A Linen an<] Muslin Warehouse.
Book Muslins, frora 6/3 to liflJ per yard
Jaconet ditto, from 8/'8 to 9/8 per yard
Striped ditto, from y/io to icjio per yard
Fiac Coffees
Tambour'd Book Muslins, from 13/9 to llf per yard
lnaia Muslin, from 11/j to 15/ per yard
Shlieting Muslin
Jaconet muslin Handkerchiefs, from 4/3 to 6/ per hdkf.
U»ok muslin Handkerchiefs ft am 5/3 to 10/6 per hdkf.
Muslin color'd and borda'd Handkerchiefs
Dacca Handkerchief!
Tatnkaur'd Cravats from 10fi to lift I
Pocket Handkerchiefs
C. m' r "..1 11/3 to 16/3 per yard
I '' ible Cloths .
Hucfe tbuck elling
Wrinsn's Cotton Hose, from to 13/ par pair
I Dunitv from's/l» to 6/ii
| Men's Silk Hose
I a-riixMr'il maflin Handkerchiefs from 11/ ii to 1 Ifl
trilh linens for Gentleiren's Shirts, from 5/5 to 9/7
And a variety of other articles.
N. 0. Orders received for all kinds of ready made
Linen, Gentlemen's Shirts, ruffled or plain, Cravats,
Pocket Handkerchiefs, &c. &c.
Hotifhold Linen, &c. &c.
A plain fiiixt. made & marked, 3 J dollars: a full-rnfF
led ditto 4 dollars : a pkin shirt made and marked, 5 dol
lars : a full-ruffled ditto 6 dollars : a plain shirt made &
marked, 5 i dollars : a full-ruffled ditto 7 dollars : a plain
fliirt made & marked, 6 dollars 1 a full-ruSkd ditto 7 l-i
dollars : a plain shirt made & marked, 6 l-j, and a v.ry
fine ruffled ditto, 8 dollars Linen included, §
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, isfc. &c.
This day landing from the ship Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from London, ,
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut anil Stcond-ftreets,
A mojl capital and exttn/ine AJfortmtnt of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, Stc. &c.
Among which art,
Five kind* Aipafagus Three ktnd« Cr
tour Berecole Twnlve Onion
Twenty-five Buan- Thirteen Radifti
Six , Beef; Fifteen Turnip
Eleven Brocoli Fiftwia . Peas
Twenty-Ik Cabbage Si* Savoy
Six Garret Four Parsnip
Three Cauliflowerl Twenty-tkree Melon
Five Celery Twenty-one Lettuce
Ten Cucumber|
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled ltaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Marygold Pot
Balm Thym? Mangel Wuxtzel
Lceb Kail * Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerne
Red anil white Clow Timothy, &c. tec.
With a enrious collection of the moll elUeraed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the moll exteniivc ever imported into thi«city.
The above are from a eapiol Setdfmau in Loac2»n, and
arfc warranted frtefh and good.
Printed catalogues may b* h»d by applying as above.
Dec. 17. 5
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
AGENjiRAL meeting of the Stocknolders will
be heH at the Corapany's Office, near the Bank
of the United States, mi Monday, the 17th day of
Af>t*ll n, s xt, at 10 o'clock, A. M. on business of im
portant '.
By order of thePrefident anrf Board of Managers
Wm. MQQ ' H SMITH, Sec'ry.
The Elephant.
The Citizens of Philadelphia are mformed that the
/■• /, K f H i NT
Will lespg town in a few days posit vfly.
ss° 1 «e printers of news-papers are irquefted t» in
sert the above.
March d.
NOW LANDING~ ~
From on hoard the Ihip Pigou, Richard Dale, matter,
from Canton, arid for sale by the Subscribers, '
BOHE V "Tea in chests and half chests
Hyjcn Skin
Young II- foa >TEAS
Imperial )
Fans
Umbrellas
Nankeens
Boglipore*
Cassia
China well tfTortad
Sugar in botes
JESSE fsf ROBERT WALN,
WILLIAM SANSOM,
MOKDECAI LEWIS.
March »i.
This Day is Publ'<!hed,
, Price 15 Cents,
Bv JOHN"' MROD,
NO. 41 drWIIIH iTREIT-
A Discourse,
PcIW ,r. T on the 12d rf rtbroary,
sU the FVNEftiAL of
The lUv CSfLBERT TENNENT SNOWDEN,
Pastor of the T, reJl>yterian C iiuv >. of 'Cranberry, in the
Stat* of New-Jcrfcy,
Ey the Rev. SAMUEL STANHOPE SMITH, D.D.
Prefi (ent of ihe College of New Jerfcy.
March 11
tor Sale,
By the iubferihers—ln FF.iSFN-SVREET,
. 65 Pipes. Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the E lgltr.
J- WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 3 o
9
ivir. bickering's Letter.
Tilis Day PubliQiei,
Ttti Lenei y. Hit. ci State, to ?.fr. fcinck
uey, Minis er »! inipoteotiary of tile United States, to
the French February 9.
j For Stile,
4 Quantity of Exeellent
Tuics-liland Salt,
jAuda few hoglheads
3d ifid 4th proof Rum.
Enquire
• febu Ha'lirgszvortb <sf Co.
February j 1
I arding and Lodging,
FOR thrtL : tour gentlemen, may be had at No.
"37, N( I Fojrth-itrect. "
March 2c (■ 1 w
J
For Sale, t
TV. OL rs Ctf GROUND in Kealington, on h
the so*4 fide of Hanovar-ftreet, containing thir- P
ty-fix feet itieadtK aiid one hundred and (iitty-feven
asd a half in depth so 1 twenty feet alley For
further intonation enquire at No. 37, Arch-street.
March if ,odtf t J
TT f '-
For Sale, c,
At this Office, "
No. 11 g Ch.fnutjlrcct,
A few coa ,f a late Report of a Committee of the a
Senate, on tljubjeA of the j/
\GEORGIA LANDS. d,
March ij j
r T l HEholi| of Robert Morris and John Nicholfen's -
L notes ai acceptances, deposited ae collateraljfeeur
ities, for the of Edward Fox and James
Greenleaf, ai couellrd to m
TAKE NOTICE ly
That the f cribers, at the fequrll and by the authori- to
ty of the hi: -3 of near nine teaths of the amount of
the paper ib alluded to, have received from George
Simpfon, Eftj 1 alignment of the trust nnder which the
said notes am cei-ptances are secured, together with all ex
the deeds an< dilations thereunta attached—therefore fti
any applieati (»r sale of any part ef said property is to vi
he made '.O N
THOMAS W- FRANCIS, C;
HENRY PRATT, U
JOHN nrrA.»D . iun. St
I TOHN ASHLEY,
March A/ JACOB BAKER. 5 .
Hj Peter Borger, a
N». 139 Mulberry-Street,
AS itiirted by the.brig Tryal, capuin Robert Knox,
and it- Good friends captain Saiili, from Hamburg,
7000 'ipty yreneh bottles, B
200 10. demijonns,
346 do. failed with fcaaws and lcattU,
100 land Kngine«,
Platillas,
SiOcVhite Rolls—*
—ALSO —
Several with decanteis and tumblers, half pint, pint £
and quart -cue invoice of Nwrtm&crg ;oy*—containing
fiiufF-boxe looking-glafles, &c. r
100/ 0 Quills cf different ■qualitie*,
150 jxcti Window Glass, 7-9 n-i2«
/ Of HAN®—.
10 </r. Cafks"Sfceiry Wine,
4 < ». Bfandy,
200 3af . best Holland Gin«
200 lo%ft Red wine, containing! 2 fcoitUseach,
OneLalc of Hanncis aiTorted, and
30 fs. Cloth,
Ficfl fr'uiw-s in boxes aod barrel*.
v T.
TO B£ LET,
F°c\° n / ° r f ore , y ears ' and given on the
lk J- Srll day of Miy next, or footer if required, that
jf commodtons three story briek hpufe, (now putting- in re,
1-PP r ) No. 171, North Front-street, eppofite James Craig's,
■3 aiw,
The house, ftorc, lnt % coic'n-'mufe stable, No. 2»
Chefnut-ftrect, V/here tV.e fubferiber dwells.
„ „ JOHN SHIELDS.
N.B. Several small houses t« he let in S»uthwark:
e A few Crates of well afiorted C-{>tkery Ware.
March 17. 5
Rofs & Simfjn,
have for sals, a iiyAStify ftp prime
St. Domingo C OTI'ON,
Superior Old Lilbon Wine inPip«s
Excellent India Matket
TENERIFFA WINI,
In Madeira Casks
A few Quarter Chejls best
Fresh Hyson and )
Hyfsn Skin 5 TE/il
March 27. ||tf
For Sale, (
A GRAND, PATENT, HARPSYjHORD
PIANO FOR.TE,
ENtirely npw, and 0115 of the best ever inported Into
this country. Enquire at the office A le PhiladeU
phia March 1 §
JUSTII^ 4^ RI'KIiintheSH P?IGOU
RICHARD DALE, Majler, f on CA. !TQtn,
And for sale by thf Swbfcribti ,
An alTortment ef China Ware,
Yellow Nanketqs,
Hyson Skin Tea,
iif-.-O ON HANu,
Imperial Tea,
Old Shf rry and Malaga Wines, •
Holland Gin in pipes,
e Crei'm Cherfcs in boxes and cafet,
Glass Ware afibrted in ditto
'. Ruin,
Cotton,
Red, pale, vtllow, and quilled Pen. fia.i Park.
JOSEPH SIMS.
ALI. PERSONS
JNDPBTf.O to the s!late of late Patjd Kesk-it
i.lVjuire, cither by note, hill, bond, book - :oun. ' T ~
otherwise, are requeued to make immed'stts .ymer,. to.
the fubferibers, without delay, and allper .i:. 5 having .ny
jull demands againd said Eflate, are desired ts exhibit the
fame for arijuftment.
ANN KENNEDY ) Adm'r.
FRANCIS JOHNSTON J Adm'r.
Philadelphia, F«hruary 8 wßw
' 1 L\ rrxjrrxr,' w>l, , ..o-t!, ii„ ht / or o
A u i- P a,nt,n S- —One fiirnifted ill i:
prtij- at '° n must be cem,al " Er^;r - rf.the
Marcs 22. .
—^—— d!\v
Fprinrn
teas,
For Sale, nt
White/ides' TEA-[VARZHOt'- F,
No. 59, North Secsnd street,
March 17. j(
PURSUANT to a Reloive ot ihe hojr.i of I
in Somctfet -L' aunty, an d
State of Maryland,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
Th«t the Qifice of Principal Tticher in the said fehnol >i>
vacant.
AGENTLEiIAN qutlified to tftaoh th/r higher Greek
I Claflaci, C-eOgraphy, .and the Mathera«i», witii
such other branche? of literaiureas ulually laught in such
(chooli, would meet with liberal eMouragemeiu, and, it is
believed, would obtain a very eligible settlement. For the
present, the Trustees would be willing to contract wirb a pei
(on capable ot taking charge of a Grammar School.
As this Institution is provided with buildings Sufficient to
accommodate the principal and kts family, and from Seventy
eighty boys j a library, aoexcellent p lilofophical and ma
thematical apparatus, globes, maps, &c; has refpedthii
funds, and is fuuated in a plentiful and agreeable pari of the
country ; nothing fcems wanting to make it rank ara« »g tlje
moll ivfeful seminaries in this part of the Union, buta
! character to prefide4* it.
Proposals may be addressed to the fubferiber, in Princcfs-
Anne, in the neighborhood of the Academy, or to Do&or
Martin L Haynie, No. 8.3, north Third-street, rnila
delphia, or to the Printer hereof.
E'ZEKIEL HAYMIEi
January 20. Feb. 7. tu&fßv/
This Day is Published,
BY Mess* Dobfon, Carey, Campbell, Rice, and the other
"wokfellers, price One Dollar and twenty-five cents, elegan/
ly prtaiea m*— aoc l hot-pressed, by John Thot»£-
lon,
A COMPARATIVE VIEW OF
The CONSTITUTIONS of the federal State,,
With each other, and with that of the United States :
exhibiting in Tables, the prominent feature; of cash Con
stitution, and classing together their most important j>io
vifions, under the several heads of administration ; with
Not«s andObfervations. By Wili-iam Smith, of South-
Carolina, L L. D. and member of the Congrcf, of lie
Uflited States. Dedicated to tha ®f the United
States. «
N. B. A few Copies printed on an i»ienor paper, -x
a 4olUr. February 6 mwf
E"or Sale,
At the Office of the Gazctrr of the United States,
No. 119, Chefnut-fireet,
The lajl Report of the late Secretary of '
the Freafury ;
Being a brief history of the fiate of financial concerns
of the United States.
The Proceedings of the Executive of the
U. S. refpe&ing the Western Infur
rettion j
Containing many faAs and circamftaneec ao where
else to he found. 50 cents.
The Letter of Mr. Pickering to our
Minister in France, 37 1-2 cents.
An Account of the Receipts & Expen
ditures of the U. S. for the year '95.
A few copies ef the volume fer 1794 may be had to
complete sets.
D'lvernois* account of the Revolution
, in Geneva. 12 1-2 cents.W 1 rXIMGTON, (Ken:) February 4. „1 t ® n ', ai
flt is reported, that news arrived at a nothc .
|eek, that the French were in poffcffi., of tfew- firmnel
Orleans, and the Spaniards were moving off their tible,
nacazinet from th.t place. We otvlf mention it as former
having no good authority of • it. autben- | hM giv
licl(y ' Februarys. Th;
It is reported, that the Spaniards bnettfufetf to ter mi\
deliver up the ptfft* they occupy on tjie Mississippi state o
vvifhitfthe limit, of ttaHJnited States, to the officer fented
: fe.J-' for rtie-porpflfe of receiving them. € °
On SMjirday last the ferry boat, with a waggon this p
ana team, the waggon loaded with fait, funk » from
tU ,SW the -Kentucky river at the mouth ot Hide- m
!n an the waggoner (tfho was a negro) and one o wi ■ 1
ihe'horfes weir-drowned. 'lt*'
WINCHESTER, (Virg.) March 24. rable
General Daniel Morgan is eleded a Reprefeftta- part
live »» Congress, for the diftriA eompefed of the «ar
•ounties of Frtderiak and Berkley, by a majority of iufter
' . P a, g r
St ate of thi poll in the counties of Shenandoah diffie
Mid Rock'iogfem, for Reprelentatives to Congress : II
■ For Aaior David Holmes 745 K et . hl
~ hi. Steele Clt,ea
den. fioyer O ™ rc
li/the county of Rockingham. <> as F
Forftvlaior D. Hol«e» 5
Col. Steele 9 7" ar
jCal. Boyer . 1
"There are three other counties ki this dtftrict, r>yf»
"from which we- have not received the returns.
NEW-YORK, March 29. as 11
When the prspofitien for confifcating the debts due able
from American merchants to individuals in Great-Bri- pra< <
tain, \va* kreught into Congreft, man, who tl)£ ,
thought jufily, was found to lis advo-
tares however were numerous and but « ls ge
nerally the cafe, their fjions got the better of their
reason. It was therefore ao wonder that men, other- tren
wife reputed sensible, fliould harbour >» idea so replete mol
with moral turpitude. Th« public -feeling was at that to b
time extremely irritable from the hafe raeafure* pur- cry
sued by the Jfcvernment of Britain ; and if the rrefi- thgj
dent, whore temperance 2nd forbearance are proverbial ratc
throughout tht* world, had net adopted the expedient
of fending an envoy to London, there is no telling
what steps might hive been taken by Congress under t»e
the impveffious of the moment. To that gr<>at man dipl
arc we indebted for preferring mr national character era.
from a (lain which no fubfeqnent concessions rould thai
have obliterated —and which would have been anore ltl
deftruflive of our credit in every part of the world
than can be easily conceived.
Injustice is injustice, the world ever, in all circum
stances it continues fe—in morals as well as politics it
"is equally detestable. To confifcate the debts due to of
Britijh Merchants because the B ritijh government a (ft- ed.
Ed arbitrarily and unjustly, would have been inequita
ble.for this lingle reafen —Britijh merchants havt in VOI
eantrutl over their government. It is independent of
them in fts operations and resource the propof- . "
ed meafnre so far from diverting it from parfumg its
course, wWd inly'have caused it to afV with reddu- Hi
bltdcaergy—Jf that-government, like ours, eriginat- of
p wnv, ..»^ e
riably adapt its t^e fore presume that instead "
-irriot ft—and » _ i- . rep resentatives of the peo
°, f :u^w 9 nldfcUow the difla** of very «
pie would do, they 9. ffle a more felfiih courfc, E
paffion P v;ntcr£ , fts required. Thi. te
.regai dltfs ot wjj r government, nor uit cl
is indeed ne f effi ty bf a reform-but si
meant as such me jfores proposed by our warm
j oV nothine but injustice to others, and in- l '
? r weuld have been the conic- I
quTnce of confifcating, ortven meddling with pnvate „
?„ntrias The raverfe would be the cafe with re- e
fpe# to a debt due from our government to I
fhnt might very properly have been sequester.d, be- g
cause it would net have inflifted a wo.nd on fr.vat. {
credit —and because it would be taking it from those
who were taking it from '"—Though the property fe
ouefteredwoeld have been ultimately derkve<T..om the 1
nation, it would not have cauted the ruin of an mdi- ;
v'dual, whose confidence in our integrity induced him
to trufc us—Trance is now depredating on our com
merce, and withholds from us infinitely more, than
the spoliations amount to —She continues her weafures,
snd no one ean tell where «r when they wul end.—
By an exertion to aid her by paying off the debs we
owed, we have unhappily divested, ourfclves ot the
means of reimbursement—And our only resource there
fore is ir. her justice and magnanimity, from winch
God preserve us.
(oa3Cttt/'''<«llmtel!sitates,
AND
Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
iriARCH 31.
Extraft of a l £tter f rom an American gentlehian in
Europe to bis friend in Philadelphia, dated De
cember 24, 1796*
The French Direftory have reftiftd to receive
Mr. Piuckrey as Miniflei from the United States,
and have taken a refolufion, that all communica
" tion between them and the firt
penutd uutil the wrongs of which the French Re
public has a right to complain, fiiall be
The motives aJJcJgcd for this proceH ; "'^'^ e 1 to
be, that the treaty t"e United -States and
Great Britain annuls that with France, and that as
they have recalled tliiir Minister from'the Urtited
Stilt s, they do not judge it advifeable to receive
one from thence.
After the recall of Mr. Adet, and the various
other circumstances which have occurred in the
com fe of the la ft Aimmer, this eircumfta'r/ce is net
surprizing. The real motives upon which it i$
founded, and-the designs which it is meant to an.
fiver, are well undeiflood by you. Among many
other* the advantage of an alternative eitli>*r t» in-
Suence the ele<?fions for. the next Prefidetrcy, or to
furnilh a material embarrsfsmcnt to -the new admi
niflratioH, i« perhaps not the least weighty. Yeu
i>ill evidently perceive, that a concert, which might
tc termed as alliance, has taken place between the
ficfeot French government and the molt virulent
internal enemies to that of the United State*: to
defeat the object of this connexion, vrmYfi is no
lefe iha* a itruluuou in the conltitutioo of our ua-
ti»n, and an abandonment o7 our efi'gasement* with rate th
another power, will icquire all the wifdora ancL ibe gov
firmnefa of which oar federal executive is fufeep- long i
tible, as well as the fapport of the people. Of the jou m
former I have no doubt, and uniform experience difcovc
has given me a confidence in the latter, which I to yau
-Hope will not be disappointed. fci ?, ec! '
The news-papers which ! fend yow v/ith this let- eatily i
ter will (h*w what a representation ef the internal to enc
state of France, the Direftoi-y ihemfelves have pre- this m
fented to the Legfflative Assemblies. The wrercb- prefid,
ednefs of the nation way possibly be exaggerated in tuin t
this paper, because its apparent ebjeft is to elicit tion,
frota the Lcgiflature feme new expedient ta raise ot tr
money for the further support of the war. But the mi
with every allowance for such exaggerations, it is invita
certain that thefituation of that country 16 deplo- "ty»
rafele in the higftell degree, and the people in every lure 1
part of it pant for peace. The weanneft of the again
: war ha» also reached their aroates, which have jory c
f I fuffered cxc«Hively i" the course of the last cam- rnout
paigß-, and which they find it_at prefeot extremely
1 difficult to support. ' tl L
The French Mfnifter of Finance has cahed to- ttuut!
gether a commercial deputation, fr6na several of the »ate<
cities, to devfie the means of reviving their com- eluoi
merce, or more of railing new funds. He truth
has proposed to them the eftabliftiment of a bank to mora
be made altogether independent of the government ca o
—and a third paper money bottomed upon the con- "«t
fiicated property, and to be denominated ccdules upor
hypothec aires. Neither of these propofali was receiv BrtU
cd with much favor, and the assembly have exprefTed «re :
as their decided opinion, that a speedy ?nd honor- to th
ie able peace mull be the n.ccffary preliminary t» a ? y pu&l
pradlicable attempt whatever for the leftoration at t icy
the commerce and finances of the nation. an ,
0 " Meanwhile the negociation ef Lord Malmefbary p<^ r i
■' still continues. The tone of the full official papers /
r . from the minister DjJacroix ipread an opinio* al- don
te moll universal, that the DireAory were determined a««J
at to break it off. But at the fame time an universal ruin
r- cry arole against theßi, and founded so loudly in ttiei
si " their ears that they have evidently foftened and mo- p|ei
,a ' rated their language. It i*. said also that they have t■ a
" consented to conduathe negociatiou in future with pro
er the fame fecresy which they have observed in their tha
m diplomatic dealings with the other coalesced pow- obi
er er*. These things arc all considered as indications Iro ;
■d that a serious attempt for peaee will b« made, and
™ the publicity, which they have purpoftly given to wit
ld their statement of the distressing conation of the mc
- nation, contributes to the opißion. tiv
J"! The Em press of Ruflia cJied suddenly on the r 7th «"<
'to of November, of an apopleitic itroke, a* is pretend- tb«
«l- ed. Suspicion however is not Tilerition this occa- to
t*- {ion. The French consider it as an'cvenrvery fa
"• vorable to them. She was to have fgned on the yo
f I9 th a new treaty with Great Britain Whether m<
" it wa».figned by her successor, is van.ufly reported, lp
ou . He certainly made no change in the adahu.llratiou sm
lit- of the Ruffian foreign depattment.
»it 1 have mentioned that one of the motive* ©f the op
ln '! flaenee tne rvmenciiw ] £
l " d new administration. There is an oH"io» propaga-
pe °" ted with rreat zeal and industry in,every part »f pi
"fc, Europe, that the union and profpeiity ot the Ufli- "<
rhii ted State, are dependent the perfoual be
is it charader, merits and popularity oi he present pre- w
-hut f)dentj * nd that the moment he ftulteti* from the ol
ann eovernmcnt, we shall fall into irrei»ncileable dif- bi
L the fenfions, which will fooii be follow by a fepara- c<
j e n n tion of the Northern from the South r, States. In a.
onftl England and France these ideas arerot l.mple opi- o,
ivate nions; they have ripened into ho A For what- is
a re- ever affedion* our countrymen may Jdulge in their r.
Irs—- heart* for thi* or that European nat>iy they may e;
' be " afTure themfelve* that they are tdall, ofeje<fts o.
Zfe fear and envy. The prosperity ofhe American »
people ha. become a reproach to Haulers of Eu
m the rope, whether monarchial or repub&n, andl prof- b
indi- perity generates envy among nati* no less than
dhim among individual*. A paragraph |:s appeared in F
com ' one of the late English news paper*purporting.to
than be founded on a letter from New written in t
lf ' irt! ' Oaober, and announcing that troubs and coßfu- e
b»'we Son* were cxpefted to take placcjpon the ape
>f the proaching eleftion for President. thefaluia- a
there- ry advice of the present PrefidentVldrefs to the ■
which people did not appear to have maapoy lffiprdEon
upon them : that in every llate was Com.
particular favourite, but no uniori.io public ipi- N
rit, and that the division of the ftsl would be the t
probable confetjUence of these fympm. >
count coming jull at the fame wilfetje hoft.le de- t
claratioti of the French Directory k gratified or a- <
Jer. laimed all those who from fentimeifct: inieieft take t
any notice of our affairs. . . '
There is a maritime expeditions prepaiation *
from France, the dire£lioa of whi i* not kiiow n '
but supposed to be a descent in ltdid* 1 here are
hnan in said to be at Brefl 15 ships of the li and 7 frigaUs,
;d De- on board 0/ which are embaiked ijooo men, with
arms, arliljery, «te. for 50,000. [They are (aid
"receive, to have a concert with the malcaent* in Ireland,
States, and cxpe& to be joined by thempon their land-
Tiiinica- ing. There is another embarhwn at Dunkirk,
Jie fu*- deltincd, as it »® f»rp«fed, tojoiijhat from Brest.'
ich Re- TJ.- "oops employed appear to b »?ry much du
:paire>* fatisfied with the service. The ipriral Villaret
: laid to -Joyeufe, and almost all the contending officers
es and have been displaced and oth«rs apposed in their
that as ttea<l. The Marine M'inifler is goj to Brest to
United pacify an infurre&ion, which has tSen place on
receive board the ftret and reconcile the ttoo| to the ex
pedition. Hoihe has the command ifehief.
various
in the Extraft of a letter from an American intleman in
:is not Europe to his friend in Philadelph(, dated De
:h it is cetnber 30> 1 796.
t-o an- «< The'enclofcd extraft of » letteifrom Paris,
; many which has been to me, Mtains cer
tain- tain paragraphs from ihtßeJallcttr, a tie/fpapcr used
, or to | by the French direftory for their offital and non
v admi official publications. It explicitly dews, as you
Yeu will observe, that the dire&ory have dt'trmined so
1 might fulpend theiT intereourte wijli the govern fnt 111 as
■en the the United State*, it is anjong tholeUaragrapha,
.lrulent which come from an official source iviHout being
:e* : to eucumb< redVith official -rcfponlibilityji It fetves
si is no to unfold more clearly the motive* and etpeftatior*
our ua- of the 1' tench goveruwent, a* well a* <0 coirebo-
rate the concert between them and the enemies to
the government of the United States, which 1 have
long seen forming, of which I hare often given
you my opinion, and the completion of which, as
•discovering itfelf in this tr.nfaftion, was intimated W( .,
to yau in my last letter. How this concert wa» e d tr n»ii
fefted, and how far its future projects extend, l_can ris is d<
easily conjcaure, but it is not at present nrceflary The
to enquire. The present and immediate object of
thismeafure is evident ; to "influence the choice ot
president in the United States, and, if it cannot The
turn the eieftion, to etnbarrafs the new admiiiiftra- late in:
tion, and rally all its opponents undei 1 the ftaitdard th« eoi
of France. You fee there is a pointed address ». The
the minority of the bouse of representatives, and an
invitation tt> tUem, whenever ihey can rile to a mujo- p Cate( j
rity, to usurp upon the executive funftians and be gre»tl
sure of the support of France. The objcftioM at the
against the" fatal treaty which pajfedonly by a ma-
jory of two votes,,' are all taken, you fee, from the _
toouthg of the American oppofeis to the govern j ine> }
ment- The pretence that the treaty gives the Bri- W
tifh commercial advantages, and facilities ier their
. military provifionments, denied to Franee/thotiglii , (
: ttated in general terms, for the fake, if pofiible, of t[re F
! eluding lefutation, is in such direst oppolition toj an , e
- truth, that it only serves to (hew, that no feruple of t Sh
, morality can interpose an impediment in the peliti- £ft«
t cal co iduft of those who advance it. /et they have
. even the addre'fs or the countenance to dwe.l shio
j- uaon this article ; it is the Brttifk tutelage, the H *ll
. Britijh yoke, upon which they lay their principal J
& stress ; they appeal to the reason of our peopie, and , By
,to their own triumphs, to diffipato the terrors of a n
y puSllanimous policy ; it'is for our owu takes that e
,f they take all this generous canceln in our welfare, t
- and they contemplate their iwn -work in our prol-1 11
r y 9 Pe And thus the African go verrttnen tjsto aban - J J
1- don the felemn engagements wf the United btates, the
:d and involve them in an inevitable war, which mult mai
al ruin their commerce, aud check, if not ddtroy, of
in their profpeiity, bccaufe it fuus the good will and- t c
o pleafurc of the French direaory, and because mo
vc Fianc*, by facrificing not only her commerce and pat
tk prosperity, but millions of her own lives, and all ft»
. u that can reuder life valuable to the remainder, has I
K .. obtained feme triumphs, which aie still very »ar em
rre from being secured. j a
n d The violation of the British treaty, and a war air
t0 with B.ita.t, therefore is what the French govern- vq
he mcnt with to provoke. The We rf reprefenta- H
lives is the inftruoent which they intend to uk, I m
,th and the Conits d'Avoux's policy, tear, the fear ot ot
,d- their displeasure is the motive which they purpote Ico
ca . toiofpire. We shall fee how they will luccced. v«
f a . It needs no observation on my part to convince tli
the you of the delicate situation in which the govern- ec
[ ier meat wilj be placed to prefer* the firmnefs, the «
ed fpi.it and dignity which must not be abandoned, k
ioa and to avoid atthe fame time a rupt.te with Trance f
There is but too much reason to suppose, that the j
the opposition party in America will p.ov.ke and nego «
™ f.. .u , chaD.»t>a"Jnn 'heir de-1 tl
iga- the French government ; and much caution, much v
t of prudence, much candour, ami moderation will be | e
Jfii. ueceffary to counteraft prep'offeffions which have n
jual been artfully inttilled, and demonstrate interests Ml
pre- which have been misrepresented. The friendfhip r
the of France m»y, 1 have no doubt, be flill tecoVered, t
dif- but not by submission to her caprices, or by acquief- d
ara- ceoce in her exclusive preferences. A full, clear,
In and explicit denial of any commercial advantages t f
opi- or facilities of military provifionment to the Britifli f
hat- is iodilpenfeble; for as this is the only colour of a t
heir rational complaint that they have exhibited, it is a
nay easy, to take it completely from them. \ la
aofj At the fame time withtheletter from Paris,carae the j r
ican account that the direfiory ordered Lord Malmfcu-
Eu- ry to withdraw within forty-eight hours. Tlrey , *
>rof- have not however ventured to break up the nego* a
than ciation entirely ; every cirrcumllance contributes t»
:d in prove, that they wi(h to coihinue the war with
lg to Britain, but at the fame time fear the-wifhes of i f
:n in their own people for peace. I fend you the pap. t
infu- ers containing the last papers publilhed in the coarse j i
ap- los the negotiation. You will plainly fee tbat they I
lma- I are determined to avoid a peace, if fojjiblt. . , i
the T/.» exlr*a »/ the Litter from Paris„ above referred \
fli on to—dated December 23, 1796.
feme "By my former I noted to you my interview
fpi. with Mr. Pinckney, and that all intercourse bet ween
c the the French Government and that of the Unittd
is ac- States of America was interrupted, in giving you
e de- this lait new?, 1 was led into an error by the erfcat
ot a- er part of the public papers : at leHgth the Redac
uke teur said, the next day, that the news was falfe ;
and proceeds in this manner. " The perfoßal com
atipn ♦' plaints that one government may have to obj«a
iow n j " again fl another, cannot be a motive for a rup
reare " ture between nations cffcntially allies and friends,
rates, 1 " and who having, in fiven limes, a necelTary influ
'with " ence upon the ads of. their Heprefematives,
said i " cannot delay reuniting at the voice of their com
:land, " mon interest."
land- | " A flu redly the French are not insensible to the
ikirk, 41 testimonies of affeftion and ofinterell which have
brest! ' " unceasingly beeß given to their caufeby the great
h dis- | " majority of the Citizens of a i»tate in whose prof
illaret " perity they chevifc their own -work. They will
fficers " never forget that notwit'ittanding the unhappy
their «" fu«geftions, there passed by a of two
eft to " voices only, thai fatal treaty which has placed
cc on I " the Americans under the guardianlhip of the
ic ex- " Englifli ; and which contrary to the faith of the
J treaty of alliance, which was to be the price and
« guaranty of their liberty, has granted to the
nan in " English commerce, and to their military supplies,
d De- I " advantages and facilities refufed to France ; they
I " appeal to time which will deflioy all calumnies ;
Paris, I " to the reason of a people already tired yf the new
s ccr- I" yoke of the Englifti : they appeal, in £ne, to
rrufed their triumj»hs, which ought t® difiipate the ter
d non- « rors of a pufillaeimdus policy, and Elence the
is you " calculai-ioss of an interest ill undeiftood-"
r, t d so I "It nevertheless remains true, that Mr. P|RCk
iient of I ney will not be received by the Government in hi B
rraphs, I quality of sninilerof the United States ot America .
. being 'and I do not yet know whether he has received a^
feives answer to hi» demand, -whether he (hauld remain a
bailors j Paris. Mr. Moaioe reckons en (laying
»ireb«- I Spring."
By this day's Mails.
NEW YORK, Maxell 30.
e have no dirc-1 accounts of Mr. Pintkney. Weun
and that be liuU gone to Holland : his retura to Pa- 1
doubtful. , 1
ie resort circulated yesterday morning, of the Col- J
r of'this port been ordered to priYent the ■
ance of vcffels which were armed, is without foun- I 4
be city of London have addressed his majesty on the II
manifefto, declaring their rtadinels to support him ia I I
;outinuaace of thi war. • , / I
heLoadea accounts of Feb.,9, Rate that the fcpanilk I
had retired Irom the frontiers of Portugal . f ,
he French continue their fucccfTes ia-Italy. Astir rcf
ted defeats, Wurmfcr rtma:n«il closely blockaded, a*
itlydiftrefledin Mantua. It waaaot, however, talrf
tic laJl advices. . ~
"he franklin, Peck ; and Kerenhappock, *
Philadelphia t Naucr, . • > No\»-Ymk ; Frdena- ;
- *
' Hay; and je»"»f A.Un-.s, Young ; from Bengal to
odon, are takca and carries into Nantz. J
Fhe Belvidert tailed ten days kefore the FaAor.
rhe Hare. HaW,y, failed in c.mpany ; the Poto- I
,c Chief, MKJiWer: the brig B was to fail 4 days after
■ Faiftor '• 'he Montezuma oi Baltimore failed at the
lie tittle with the Belvidere.
Ship Diana of BaWore is taken by a French privateer
"fer being two days out front Gtladaloupe, and earned
OSt Kit s 4 . '{* Some error fn th.s paragraph.]
AKR:re.L>.
ios Fa<a»r, Kemp, Loudoa .38 days ; Sarah, Jarvis,
*ll 73 ; Black Riser, Uobton, Martiaique 14.
y the ihip Faflor, captain Kemp, arrived lad
niaht, in li thy* fro* London, we have receiv
ed our regulJ files of pace's to Feb,u*ry n
frotn which we haflen to extradt the fuUw.ng
intevefting information.
LONDON, February 4.
An exprpfs 'lrom Dover brought us last night
he molt important papers which have arrived for
.an? weeks from Paris. They br.ng an account
f . brilliant fe.ies of vi&or.e.. We mutt refer to J
he short account of Buonaparte h.mtelf, and the
nore extended detail, of oeneral Be.Th.er. for the
.articular. of thc'fe "fT S 'j#i / ,1*
tance of them is, that ba, itfr.yd ,hc
Ift h Avjlr'.an *nny in jMj\ Five times has the
■tnperor renewed ibis devoted army ; .n the last in
tance 'evefy effort of determined magnanimity, ana
ilmott of exbaafted despair, was exerted, to make a )
vigorous movement for the deliverance of Maatua.
He dri'pt all his frontiers, he called forth and ani
mated the chivalrous spirit of Hungary ( the youth
of Vienna were routed i>y blandithment* ot the
court, as well™ their natural loyalty, to enter tmo
volunteer battalion. J and* hiften the exped.t.ops,
the recruits were mounted in Vo.tUre»,and d,[patch
ed by poll. 1» r > the Salvation of Mantua, was
coi fid<red «. the last Hake of the empetor and
king, and for this every th.ng was lo be hazarded }
for This the of genCral Clarke were re.
iefted ; every offer of anarm.ft.ee was .efufed, and
we have lean fr6m the late German Journal, 1
they looked with perfeft conhdet.ee to the fucecf. I
- ■ .as. What a leaonto so
vereigns and to natwarn the vefiiTt wf all tin, C ner- 1)
gy 1 What a dreadful rtfponlibility inuft the cabi- I
net incur, which, truffc'ng to its ewn fpcculstiom, 11
shuts its ears againit the voice of pesce!—Our I
readers will not be content with the mere outline of II
these vitftories ; we therefore publifli the officii! II
details; but the short total of the >ns are- I
That general Alviiuy, with from 40 0 50 ,00® I
freih troops, flie flawer as Austria, atta. k. ' in tfif. I
ferent points the French army in Itslrj and bat- ll
ties were fought on the 23d, 24th, 25th, 26ihand 1
27th Nivofe (die ink, 13th, 14th, 15th, and 16th
•f January) in aH of which the Auihians were |
routed, and
French took 23,000 prisoners, amonj
wflom were 3 general officeis, 5 colonels, ie majors. (
and a great number of interior officers.
They killed and wounded 4000 men.
"1 hey took sixty pieces of cannon, and about 24
stand of colcuts, among which are the standard. of
the volunteeft of Vienua, embroidered by the hands
of the tmprefs.
Aud the "whole of the cfcort of o'icen, grain, end
•ther provtßons detti-.f-1 £0? tit« relief of Mantua,
ukei> within eanhsaftwt «f k« walls.
Such is tie aexbunt which the generals hare
give» of mod memorable vift®ry, and which,
itr oaf minds, is rendered fttll more interesting by
the manner in wltick it has been received in Paris,
and by tbd use wbreh the directoiy have made ®f
it. In tW council of ancients, upon reading the 9
message from the dire&ory, the following fpeecb
; was delivered by citizen Dumas :
Citifuns Rcprtfcntalrvrs.
Before Nre are infowicd of the details of this lad
■ vi&ory 4 before we are acquainted with the manntr
, in which the forefight ®f the, valiant Buonaparte
- contrived to involve ihe infclS'ial generals in th®
, double snare which they hadfcrepared f»r him ; b'"
fore fame lias presented the "tecord of th«
memorable deeds of diftingutfhed this
illattrious day, and fate of Italy, let
c us hasten to publrfh our gHßide to this brave, thi*
t invincible army. , fgg
Mantua mult, fooneflpjeter, fall into oor hand*
II after this decilive battfll The ceurt of Vienna,
y which appears very recently to have rqefteS new b
-0 vertures for negotiation, in the hopes, byfaffing the
d blockade of Mantua, of changing the jefpe&ive 6- •
e tuationsof the contra&ing powers, au/dirainifljing ■
e the value of our conquests, may flat<r itfelf with
d preserving for a few days longer thi bulwark of
,e the AuSria* possessions. It is of Hulconfequence
s, to us new.
y The meflage of the direftot y leaves that
; the new army destined to save Mantt at all ha
w i« entirtly destroyed ; and we to as»
o sure the nation, and to congratulate Selves that
r- at lad this pledge of pcsce (the. poffc^ 9 of tbe
ie emperor in Italy} is now in oar handsiAnd we
bave it is our por.cr to prove its value bjvopoling
c. tbe mo ft ufefcl, the molt glorious compe» t ioo.
ii 8 Unable, to the extent ef our wiftics Vi;f, r ib«te
1. rewards, let us at least present to our de\ ( j ers t h»t ?
a' of which-they are mott zealous—the exW 10J , 0 f
» n the national gratitude. Let us here thaulL nera l
iv*/ Buonaparte and the -army of Italy, not oi (j C .
vgß<lwiibtd »nd defeated the *V aB. a«By, but alfobe aufe tK«y have fmeethed the way fed aboi
tw'V irenera! peace. This is rhc hijfheft triumph fame tin
which the .government, whiph the nation can pre- bert, th;
pare for them. Such is the monument which it is was fiiin
eui taflc to raise ta their glory. turn his
Let us prove 'that toe know how to offer to Eu• ferent c
rtpt that peace wh'tcb it expefts ; that honourable jett ; a
peace which cur Juccefs fecaret : thut jujl aud equi- they int
table (balance) which will be accepted. Let us, in my line
fine, tell what compenfatioo will be fufficlent to fit- 1 detacl
dire our liberty, since we are vi&oriuus by it and Gen. Iv 1
for it. voli ' w
I move that the be printed and diftri- >"£•
buted, fix copies to each member. Adopted. _ I' m
This would be very important of itjelf, tSough it weuU impart:
serve to shew that a part of the afleftialy at least were not 6e plan
infatuated by the triumph, to the fc/rgetfulrie& every d
facredduty «f every rational frier,d « man ; but that form ; d;
which rives this wife, humane audi politic speech, real in- ,
ter.ft "; 9 that we find it adopted iy the Dirc<9ory, and P
pu'olifoed in the official department of their own Journal j w.ng a
and the rumou* », that they have sent a new envoy, with height
offers of peace, to Vieana. ant j
OFFICIAL, , f
litraft of a letter from Buon»parteto Clarke. 33 a » 11
-Vcrtntt, 30M Nmoft, Jen. 19, tfhyenr. Geaers
Scarcely had I quitted Roverkello, whtn I was inform- the 24
ed that the enemy had appeared at Verona. Maflena had w h o | c ,
made his dispositions, which ware extremely fuccefsful. ,
We tock 600 prisoners and jhree pieces of cannon. Gen. e mi \
Brume had seven ihots through his cloaths, without recciv- "ever 1
iog the flighted wound. Such is the advantage of being ed thei
fortunate men. We have had only ten men killed, and a render
hundred wounded. Signed, Buonaparte. highly
Extraft of a letter from general in chief Buonaparte, tacked
to the Executive Dire&ory. attack
Head-quarters at Roverbella, sustain
29th Nivofe, Jan. 7. ry. (
Chere have occured Tiiice the 23d, operations whom
of such great importance, and which have been ac- fien tl
companicd with so many aftioas, that it is impofii* this <
ble for me before to-morrow to present you with a their 1
detail of particulars ; I (hall now barely enumerate canno
them. Capta
Upon the 20th tJTvofe, the enemy attacked the " tou
d ivifion of general Maflena before Veror.a, which ken ?'
produced the battle of St. Michael, where they were sent t'
completely beften. We took 600 prisoners, and which
three pieces oi cannon. The fame day they at- divific
tacked the and of our line at Montebaldo, and fairs,
produced of Corona, when they were re- Th
pulsed with the loss of an hundred and tan prifeneri. and t
Upon the 23d at midnight, the division of the forcei
enemy's army, which had taken poll at Bevelaqua, along
ever since the 10th, when they compelled the ad- marc!
vanced guard of th? division of gen. Angcreau Jto der t
fall back, hallily threw a bridge over the Adige, a and tl
league from Porto.Legnago, opposite Anguiari. airy,
Upon the<24th in the morning, the enemy caused fucce
a very strong column to defile by Montagena and 1 fe«
Caprino, and thus compelled the division of general dragi
Joubert to evacuate Corona, and concentrate them- our c
iielvcs at Rivoli. I had fotefeen this movement. I Joub
repaired thither at night, and the battle of Rivoli heigl
ensued, which we gained upon the 25th and 26th, my I
after an obflinate refinance; at which place we made attac
13,900 prisoners, took fcveral Hand of colours and a pai
pieces of cannoa. General Alvmzi, almost alone, of th
with great diff— l T efeaped. colm
Upon lhe 125 th, general -
enemy at Angaiari, to attcmp' to «brow them into dre*
"nfufion before they bad entirely paf- the
sage. He did not succeed in his objeft ; but he ami:
t». fiend unit 'f Ar.gutart. He made wa9
„, ■mbicb foi r inihrntlUtkirMpt ,
4 000 pr,fi»r,, Wl6 fiui l.k.
•<vtr tie Adige ■ * already ivitbtn imn
Jr^ t % a fuiurl wil
c*nnst Jbot of p s bed and tb<y iven untitle U foe
lie I "r" " 'f wa,
I Hi. Th fruit' b *" U I°° /"> '"• * """ S'f t „ ,
„i. nnJidtrMt c*v°? '] *<*}»*> •*<"> "" <*"> P"
to introduce into Mantu*. " f<
IVurmfer trud t> mthafortU UatUcl tbi UJt """if'" 50
Uhe m,t -wti to *« M, r'" "" . nil
' Ur £.hU th* i- >rf.ur day the fifth vmy <ftb, th,
itfiOOfrijuers,th
s°'"° k '
.. . . ,f the military mvwomts -which ire
ZenpZ""lt reellu <" d
ms ri
OFFICIAL ARTICLES.
AXMY OF ITALY. b
°f I,al *> " "" l " '
eeutive Direaory I C
Heai-querUrSt Ver*n* y *9 th Nh 'f e > 18 J*"' p
Citizen 3ireßors> . I 1
Ih.i n*iti xooo men, ■' •»>"« 'f™
fro* th fruity of »y fiuati,n U „«**. tb.«urt ./Retne
* Mtti oblige it ta tiferve *ptc\pt , frotm wtub, for f.«e t.me, 1
thii ctvrtatiptnnJ mtre fre U dtftr t. ,~ r I '
.fete, < « neg=ci*ti«> with thegrand duhe .f Tuf.any,
W-tb regard to the garrifin of Leghorn, pr.fenee ho-
Urna tvouldfem iufallMy to bring to » uncluft,*.
k men the \ltb Nivofe, krwvtrjM dm'fon of the enemy, wh,cb
at Padua, f"' l, f el f 7< u f m ,ie
guard of genertl Angereau. -uJ,o iva> .t B,rv.Uquy
. i„ front of port Legnago. After . very smart fhirm.Jb, th. ad
jutant-renfral Dufrux, -wh, commanded this advanced guard, re-\
tired 7. St. Zeno, and day to Port Legnagu, after havmg bad
a. opportunity by bis njvitnee of mfpri/ing the xuhtle line of the
ma, J h ,mJcdiaHly detached the looe men I had -with me «. Solegnt, I
J:TttlL,.nd immediately after I.set out for Keren*.
Upon the at fix olchckmtbe morn '
preferred tbemfelw before Perotm, and attacked the
ael-jancfd -luard »f General Majjena, pofitd at the vil
lage of Sf Michael. General Majfena left Vir ° n p
Jrew up bis di-Sfton in battle order, and marched d,- I
rcSU againfi the exernj, whom he put to rout, took }
tieces ofcaLn and made 600 pnfoners. The grena
dier Jof the 7 S th arried the pieces wth the bayonet.
They were beaded b) General Brume, -who had seven I
day,'"at the fame hour, the e»emy at
tacked the head of our line at Montbaldo, wh.ch |
was defended by the light infantry of Gen. Joubert.
The battle was Warm and obltinate. Ihe ene ™y
mdae ttiemfelve* «aaers of the firft icdoubt, but
Toubert darted on at the head of his .aiabineers,
* drove the enemy from it, put them completely to
Tout, and took I lc prisoners.
Upon the 2 4 tb the enemy hastily threw over a
bridge at and their advancd-guard crof-
,vi |
fed about a league from Porto Legnago. At tlie r !
fame timt t received intelligence from Gen. Jou-' ne "',
bert, that a very considerable column of the enemy , , C a r -^u C jrd
was filing along by Montagna, and threatened to nient t to )k
turn his advanced-guard by La Corona. From dif- j Arfja»n'
, ferent circumstances 1 discovered the enemy's ob- , f c .' f bv
. jefit ; and I no longer entertained any doubt that f^ C^'' c "p
. they intended to attack, with their principal fotces mander of
i my line at Rivoli, and in this way to reach Mantua, gth regimt
1 detached during the night the greatest part of
1 Gen. Maffena's divifioH, and went in person to Ri- »if TOU a
voli, where I auived at two b'clock in the morn- : mander of
ing i two ebWs
1 immediately caused Gen. Joubert to take the | r^ n o e ' a
L impurtant poll of St. Marco. I ordered cannon to J c hargtd, a
t be planted on the plateau of Rivoli, and 1 made ; Cennal
J every disposition to assume at break of day, vety ! \
formidable ofFenfive operatidns, and to march in h«coocei<
j perfan against theenemy. At day-bleak our right linesoftb
; wing and tha left of the enemy engaged on the f er was to
k heights of St. Marco. Tht battle was terrible
and obltinate. at the head of the Upon
33d, fnpported his light infantry, commanded by 1 strackec
General Vial. Meanwhile M. Alvinxi, who, upon f er ma '
1- the 24th, had rtiade difpofitioas to surroUnd the bUckao
j' whole division of Gen. Joubect, continued to push bead of
1 " the measures he had adopted for this purpose. He Wurmf<
never fufpeAed that, during the night, 1 had arriv- I 81 f° on
g ed there with reinforcements so considerable a» to covered
* render his operation not only impra&icable, but 'ben mi
highly disastrous to him. Our left was w.irmly at- ttti-brigi
e, tacked, it fell back," and the enemy dire&ed their bwrbs o
attack.againlt the centre. ' The 14th demi-btigade Confiifi
s, sustained the (hock with the mod: undaunted brave- enemy :
ry. Gen. Berthier, Chief of the Etat Major, a " m ' n
ns whom I had left there, difplaytd *p»n this occa- yielded
c- fion that courage which he has so often proved in pieces c
ii» this campaign* The Auftrians, encouraged by Huflar
a their numbers, redoubled their efforts to carry tbe the refp
te cannon placed in front of this demi-brigade. A He rec
Captain darted forwards agaiuft the enemy, crying ceived.
he " fourteenth, will you allow your cannon to be ta- clesyoi
eh ken J" At this moment the 23dj which 1 had — L amo
rt sent to rally the left, appears, retakes all the polls 10 T lc '
nd which had been lofl, and headed by its General of m»rabl
it- division Maflena, completely reeSablifhed our as. The
nd fairs. eH ,wo
re- The battlt, however, had not lasted three hours, made,
r». and th* enemy had not yet brought forward all their nant g
he forces. One of their columns, which had filed 'f
aa, along the Adige under cover of a numerous artillery, and ki
id- marched straight to the plateau of Rivoli, in or- I rc
»to der to} carry it, and so threatened to turn the right g 4l
, a and the center. I ordered the General of the cav fc en * 1
airy, Le Clerc, to goaiid charge the enemy if they lhemf<
fed succeeded in carrying the plateau of Rivoli, and *nd.iS
"id 1 sent the Chief of Squadron, Lafalle, with 50 lia » ai
fral dragoons to take the enemy's infantry who attacked chel,
rm- our centre vigorously. At -the fame instant Gen. legion
I Joubert hae lent down some battalions from tbe 30, a
»oli heights, who sank tlie plateau of Rivoli. The ene- Cit
ith, my had already penetrated to the plateaa, warmly light i
ade attacked on every fide, left a great number of dead, ncfy,
and a part, of their artillery, and returned to the valley Genei
>ne, of the Adige. Nearly at the lame tire the enemy's j«:aiit
colnmu, wh_ic]v T^il a#^ 1 ?ir«a/lj/ .bem some time oa the Jelves.
into drew up upon fume heights behind us. I had left meroi
pas- the 75th in reserve, which not only kept thi*. col
the titnn in awe, but also attacked its left which had capiu
advanced, and instantly put it to rout. !» t
•guia- The 18th demi brigade arrived while all this j
"' J ' was going oa, at the time when Gen. Rey had n f
rU §"j taken poll behmJ the column which turned us. I . t h c i
'Jth'in immediately gave orders to cannonade theenemy, 111.
,burb wi|h forte 1 a pounders. I ordered aft attack to
carry be made and in less than a quarter of an hour t!u> ]B | (
* iuui whole column, confiding of more than 40®® men, iy
ll'eiff was taken The enemy every where pin Couc
'ufa's, to root, were every where pursued, and all mgtf V.
'enemy prifonets were brought in. 1500 men who ef wit
ficavorcd to cfcapc by Goarda, weie stepped far
wr ar ' 500 men of the 18th» who, a* foan as they rccot , c
r *~ nized then>, march up with confidence, and ordcid eJ| pj
rmptrw them to lay down their arms.
The enemy were still matters of La bt who
I tenant- they no longer ceuld be dangerous. It was necefl* than
•/ ry to march againfl the Gen. Provera, with all I- dretl
r i peditioo, who had already passed the at Ai-
I guiari, I caused Gen. Viftor to file off with de
ipsrtmf brave 57th, and follow up Gen. Maflena, <f o ' j,i s c
I with a pait of his division arrived at Roverbella j 1 cer
'•"Hon the 2d. f
"* j On my departure I left orders with gen- Joalrt j witl
" Ito attack the enemy at break of day if thev we •
ZTJ. I rafb enough to remain at la Corona. jj_
Gen. Murat had marched all night with a dmi
brigade of light infantry, and was in the morpig 7
1 the Mx- I to appear upon the heights of Monte baldo, muc
commanded Coroßa ; the epetny were mo f
7""' I put to route after a very warm refiltance ;"nd tbe
, those who had escaped the preceding evening ere
./ Rome, made prisoners. The cavalry had no means Is of
sometime, Having themselves but by swimming acrols thiA
dige, in which attempt a great many were diowed" «
' Tufeany, | j n two days engagements at Rivoli, weiadc : the
cert Bo- ooa pt if oßer , ( and took 9 pieces of can M.— j the
my, which I Gen. Sandosand Meyer were wounded figbng
'1 'attached biavely at their troops. . n£l
Sevilaqua, I * Observation of the Editorjof the Rcdaeicuri ' •
L the ad- The praise which Buonaparte here beltows upon Qrj ral
guard, re-\ Berthier, Chief of his Etit-Major, that which. General kr»
iaving had I thiero'n his fideb.ftows wh«n (prtking of an
line of the how chimerical and calumnious is the account of "1 *J
f ence fa id- to prevail betvee. them. All those
which i.e supposed to cxilt bee ween the members of'he Wi- jj
erl " ■ "«or T , the , B d the Generals, &c &c. «•» *1
amcmulto ° BATTLEOFSt - GEORGES ' ■ j 'ti.
\cked tbe 1 M. General Prorera, at tbe head ol 6oao r»eH arrived
the vtl- „ the t6th( al midday, at the suburb of St. ;eor 6 «».
Verona, 1 he , ltag K c i it all day withont Tbi» fubutb was de- , tl
rched di- fc«eed by Genearl.'of Minllrs. Sa»fon,chief ol Iti
It, took } Uatiallion of the engineers, had entrenched it with ie.it care, j,
be zrena- General Miollis, equally aftive and intrepid, far lfcm being ;
havoliet. intimidated by the threats of the enemy, answered tela with |
bad liven hi> e»n«on, and thus gained the nigU of the «Sth ltd »7th,
laajeve wh|ch j ord „ cd General Surrurier tooccipy la Fa- |
I vorite with the 47th and 18ih demi-brigades ol tly linej and
lemy at- jU , he d.fpofcablc force which could be drawn ffcm the dl-
O, which | visions employed in the blockade; but before givng an ac- |
[oubert. I «oust of the battle of la FaVorice, whieh took pkee on the •
I »7th,l oueht to speak of two battles of Angmarl.
e enemy FIRST OF ANGtJIAM.
jubt, but I Xhe divifiou as Cen;r»! Proven, 10,000»rong, had forc
rabineers, I ed tbepsffage of Anguiari. Genetal of Divifioa, ,
nletelv to had collcfted all the forces he could find, awi
' I marched ajair.ft the sr.emy, bat having only 1)00 men, he j
| could not iuccccd in forcing the enemy igaia to ctofs vhc 11- I
:w over a f Ter ,itb 9 ugh he checked their eoutfe (or p«t of the day,
uard crof" * and anade 30% prisoners.
r SECOND BATTLE OF ANGUT ART. now feel
Ceneral Provera did nnt lo Tea moment, and filed on im- tie public
mediately to Caftellara. General An»e.rea* fell upoo the
i .ear-guard of his diviliqn, and, alter a very warm engage- Mr. Co
nient, to .k .6 pieces of cannon, and made prifoneri. lajl nighi,
Adjourn General Dufaux partisularlv him- f g/i 5,,. 5
' felf by his courage on this occasion. The gife and i?ih re C.ourt of
eimenti of dragoons, and the Vflth rerimen» of chaireurs,
1 likewise jfarticularfy diftin'guiflaed thertjfelves. The Cf ""' A ,
manner of the Hulans ore rented hi.nMf to a fqnadroir of the ™ u,t
qth reeiment of dragoons, and, with noe of those rhodo- areadjul
: ihoatadu udial among the Auftrians,«' Surrender," cried he place in 1
to the regimtnt. Citizen Duvivier made .his squadron flop . of bis it
"If rou are brave, cone and tak« m«," cried he r» the com- proceejin
• 1 mander of ihe enemy. The two corps flood still, and the jy e fo a
\ two chiefs afforded an example of thole conflicts which TarTo Maiflyt
. 1 describes so charmingly. The Commander of the Hulins
: j was wounded by two blows from the sabre ; the troops then -
> 1 chargtd, and the Hulans were niaie prifaners. ,
; : Geneial ProVera all night continued to file on to St. J.
T 1 Georges, as I have had the honour to inform you, and upon Hafftngs
\ the *6th made an attack upon it. 1 Being unable to enter it, Corn<iva>
1 he conceived tkedcHgnef farcing la Favorite, df piercing the Lord
t lines of the blockade, and seconded by a sortie which Worm- inthcTt
e fer was to make, throw himfelf into Mantua. _ The j
e Battle of La Favorite, 7*orbay,
e Upon the 27th, an haur before day, the enemy there as
y attacked La Favorite at the moment when Wurm. the entrn
n fer made a sortie, and attacked the tines of the '*
c blockade by St. Antoine. Gen. Viftor at the cepta"n\
b htad of the 56th demi-brigade overthrew all he met. p ro p er ty
e Wurmfer wag obliged to re-enter Mantua, almost 74, Cap
ai soon as he had left it, and left the field of battle ley 7 PI
0 cowed w'th dead and prisoners. Gen. Surrurier I —and 1
it then made gen. Viftor advance with the
t . mi-brigade, in erder to hem in Provera in the fu-1 0^ £
; r b*rb3 of St. George's, and this block him up:— f rom t ]„
] e Confufion and disorder accordingly prevailed in the of Buon
e . enemy's ranks. Cavalry, infantry, artillery, were I had fue<
r> all mingled pell rnell. The terrible 57th brigade, j
s . yielded t» no •ppofition* On one fide it took 31 -
[„ pieces of cannon. On another it cut to pieces the I
, v Hut Tar regiment of Herdendy. At tkis moment, I
,' e the refpe&able gen. Provera offered to capitulate. ! Ma ™
A He reckoned upon our generosity, nor was he de-1
,g ceived. We allowed him ts capitulate; the arti-1
cles yo* will find annexed. Six thousand prisoners 1
a( j —-among which are all the Vienna volunteers, and I ing.
fta 20 pieces of cannon, were tire fruits of this tne- J
of m<»rable day. I
jf. The army of the republic then has ia 4 days gain- I fecrjvf
ed two pitched battles, and 6 leflTer engagemeuts, llo 'C]
rS) made 23,000 prisoners, among which are a Heme-1 N. 1
c j, nant general, and two generals, 12 or 15 colonels, I
e( j fcc. taken ao llandef colours, 6e pieces of cann«n n csoo
r y. and killed and wounded at lead 6000 men. |
sr . 1 requett of you the rank of geneial of dirifion I ship 1
rht for gen. Viftar, that of brigade for the adjutant I Sc'aoo
av (ten. Vaux. All the demi-brigades have covered!
iey ihemfelves with gloty, efpeeially the 32d, 57th, I
aid aa«L 18th, of the line, commanded by ge». Maffe-1 00 "
5# ua, and wh« iu 3 days beat the enemy at St. Mi-1
ted chel, at Rivola.j aid Roverbelta. The Roman I
en. jrgians marched 24 miles a day. Ours marched
the 30, and fought also occafioaally. j
ne- Citizens Del Tain, chief as the demi brigade ol I
nly light infantry ; Marquis, chief of the 29th j Four-1
ad, tiefy, chief»f tlw: 17th; have been wounded.— J '
Hey Generals of Brigade, Vial, Brume, Boa, an 3 ad- J
iy's j*:aiit gen. Argod, parricularly di'lluguiflied tbem* J c„ n f,
the iclvcs. ' ' ' j
left meroustobe enumerated here." |Cr«tii
col- (Signed) BUONAPARTE. &
had Capitulation made ley the imperial troops under the walls]
, at St. Georges, 27 Nivofe; 4th year of the Republic,
tbis A rt. 1. The hoaouisef war granccd, aod all troops prisoners I tmr
1 j ' WJtr * I rcel
,a 11. The Officers £kall retain their swords, their effe&n, and I
'• * . their equipage, and the (oldiers their knap-fteks.
;mv, HI- The Geneial Officer, and other interior officers may re- J
; pair to their koines, if ithe General in Chief confcnts to I
, • give them permilTioa.—l engage my w%rd of koaour to I Hop:
* mtoina the General in Chief that 1 for this article. I ftree
IV. Inforreatiori (hall be communicated to Marftial J M
: pui C»unt de iVurmferof the present capitulation,
uij/tj V. The Tick and wounded (hall be taken care of I
e j. with all those sentiments of humanity infcparable from I
Republicans. j
Head-quarters at Verona, 30th Nivofe, (isth Jan.) 1
cco J I certify that in the different battles which have tak- I
e* place fmee the 191b Niv«fe to the a7th'of the fame I u
-menth, the lift of Auftrians taken prjfoners of war, I tii
s, bt who ha>e pafled in review, amount already to more I
:cej- than twenty thousand, an.ong whom are seven hnn- j
ill f . dred cavalry, and that frefli prisoners arrive every m»- I
, a,. men t i ,hat the enemy have left us forty-four pieces of I
■ . cannon with their carriages, all the baggage of the I
column of general Proven}, and all the standards of
' his corps, part of which were broken by the enemy. I
'l® j I certify that, in pursuance to theordersof the general
| ia chief, I have entrH&ed Rey, gentral of division,
oalrt ' with the charge of conducing to Grenoble the column 1
W re ! of twenty thousand prisoners of war by convoys of ~
; three thousands, marching at a distance of one day's
[. jaurney, and under (ho escort of the 58th demi-brigade
3 and of a fqnadron of cavalry.
or < n B fhefe trtpbies of the have army of Italy, art ft
rdigly mofi faithful friends, that I think Ifkall afford them
• ;«nd the highe/t gratification by this official recital. Ts
* (h«4J ALLXAHDER BLKTHIER: .
li f Message of the Exeeutive DireSory to the Council of ,
1 t ° Ancients and of Five Hundred, 6th Plunoije, Jan. »s j
thiA- <« Citizens Representatives,
ovfed- « 7 'jje Executive Dire/lory hajlens to inform you oj
ve ade the prodigious fueceffes which have hen just gained by
IB i _ j the brave army of Italy. The following ,s the result of
ftnlina I the series of *3ions vhioh have ukm plare between
g t be t U Xt-vofe, to the litb, tnclufpve, tecaf.oned by the
new attempts that the enemy have made to rW<~. Man
<„ral b thousand Au/lrians taken prtfonortA
ni "c among whom are tht et Generals, and all the battalions
he II cr- I rnf the Vienna volunteers, fix thousand of the enemy hi I
l,d,r mounded, sixty of tannon, and twenty-four
3 f'.hc Di- ,f ttltnrs taken. |
aein the J jn t he enemy s baggage fetxed ; with a regiment ]
of huß'ars, and all the convoy of gram and oxen, which I
. , hl e „ tm , wanted to throw Mo Mantua. j
rf arrived H ' r <A , bappy nelU s, we have renfon to think
thct ,he capture of this important for tress will conclude
fa ff : labors If the inv.ncihl> army If Italy, and ,ts ,ntre-
jeat care, pid General SARRAS, Pref. 1 '
Übemg nieui) LAGJKDE, Stc tj.
b«m with
aiJ «7tk, I LONDON, February 6, 1
:lpy la Fa- | m se fi eT i ay rect ived the Paris papers up to the 3JI I
( !in l i infl inclusive, which confirm the important intelligence 1
t.m the dl- J - J d rhe pmperor's fifth army m Italy is
rnganac- , ofba uroay r garr fonot Mantua, defriv
!" " ,w> »•> ■*«""" •*"*
W- Steve not suss 1
i, Guy«»*» qkeft to pass ever Unimproved. It came niofi opp
find, •»<* I [ to Ji ren£i j /e „ tbem again/1 all the attacks ma e p
'* r c "' bC their udminijlration ; " ni * cccr ? m &J mt
C tuf» vUc ... 1 / he mmiJier 0 j the police to the effiembly, that
of th. day. J a 'J VJCon j l ,i rra j (j announced, which the govemmmt
\ * ' \£
\ /
I no w .feel them/fives kr:ng enough to queV, J\r e refer
tkepublic to the meffage'. \
Feirla'y 9,
Mr. Cox the meffengtt Ami sent off at eleveK J clock
la!) nighit from Lord Grmfalle's office, ivitb rife cbe s
for Sir Morton Eden , his \najejly'l Ambassador *4 the
Court of Vienna. They arefuppofed to rela'e enfivly
to the slate 0/affairs in Italy The British government
mufl naturally he anxious-to a/certain irbat effeft the
dreadful and difajlrous eve>fs 'which have iately taken
place in that quarter are HMr to produce in the coun-rU
of his imperial maj-fly, by ifiboje cotdult th.-ir futur*
proceedings will no doubt be governed.
lVe have reason to believe that it mas the luifh of bit
Maj jly thtt Mr. Hajlings Jbiuld return to India, to re.
flore tranquillity among the company's officers there -
but that the latter gain it ifl be under flood, that he
luijh'ed to decline the appointn\nt. We tliink thtt if Mrs
Ha/lings have to accompany Mtffqai*
Cornavallis, he might have dke very effer.tial forvice.
Lord Macartney failed on *nd*y from Pctfnoutb,
in the Trufiy, oj 50 guru, fotkhe Cape's Good Hope.
- The folhiu 'tngjhips were ift by Lord Bridport in
Tor bay, with orders to reprr off Brejl, and cruize
there as a fyuadron of ohfervijon upon the motion of
the enemy's fleet, if they fhovi again make any at
tempt to put to sea After attain time this Britt/h
squadron is to proceed off tie fejlern fjlands, to inter'
cept a number of neutral vejfetfreighted with trench
property from Bztavia to a vd large amount ; Robujl
■ 74, Capt. E.Thtrnborough , 'Unite it, Capt. Row
■ ley V Pbeenix 36, Capt. Hal/led, Stag 31, Capt. Tort*
■ —and Triton it, Capt. Gore.
February 1.
The public were amused yeftelay with the rumour of
official accounts having been reived by the adniira ty
" from the Mediterranean, contra-Uing the official report
: of Buonaparte's viitory, and (ta|>g, that the Auirians.
5 had fueceaded in relic-ring Ma its, with the loss of 30CO
men only. ..
* j. WPL
c Philadelphia,
FRIDAT EFENING;MARCH 31.
Married, last Eveuios by the Riht Rev. Bilhoo White,
" Mr. ROBERT RAINEY, to Milt CATHARINE KEF
;■ PEL P, both this City.
1-1 f-yt An adjourned Meeting of the Philofopnieal "0-
rs I ciiy\p'ill be held at their Hall at 6 o' clock this even
d ing- .
.. I March 31.
POST OFFICE, PhiUl March 3 \ft, 1797*
I LETTERS for the Britith Fasket ROEBUCK, will be
# * recrired at ihi» Office, until Tucfoay, the 14 th of Apnrl, at
•> I a o'Clock, noon.
e- I N B. Inland Pottage must be paid to New.TorK.
£? TrfEShip FAVORiTE, Capt. Thorapfon, Ltl-
TER-BAG, for Hamburgh, will be taken from the Potl-Ot
m Acs on Tucfdiy next, the 4 th <fi April.
I IR»ited
in Ship Wooddrop, Sims, Hodgfon ~C a" t en
nt Schooner WiHUm and Sarah, Widdelield, Jam
.d Virginia, Pearce Cayenne *3
, John, Coffin XI ,8 t
H ' Sloop Patience, Willis New-York 1
r V I Eliza, Cottrill *£ S -
I College-Hail
ed j ,Last week but one.
Readings and Recitations,
0t Moral, Critical, and Entertain,ng.
H On SATURDAY EVENING, April ij,
j WtLL BE DELIVERED,
ld l THaEfPKCTS of AMBITION and GUILT,
*• ConfJe"d Traced and Charter of
MAC B K T H 5
\ .• —We aad Moral aud
I Criucil Oblcrvai-.oqjou the CnarleqJi » <-><• Author.
I C?* T he Readings will close for4his Reason on Saturday
«lli I t ' le April.
I Tlckeis to be ted of Mr. Poulfon, ]u*. at the Library
aers I atmr * M'Elwee's looking-glafs-fiore, No. 70, S. Fourth-
I flreet; and at Mr. Carey's, Bookfe'lcr,
and I Hats a dollar eAch.
, r< ._ j FOR SALE,
, t0 j A QUANTITY OF
:r to ] Hops and Timothy Seed, at No. 89, South Third,
icle. I street. ,
(hal I March 31 , 6teod
; of j New Theatre.
Rom I :
Mr. MO RETON'S NIGHT.
»«>.) I On FRIDAY EVENING, Mareh 3 t,
rak- j Will be presented, a TRAGEDY, called
r/, Hamlet, Prince of Denmark.
iore I Hamlet Mr. Moreton
'■■" l King Warren
™*" Ghost L'Eftrange
:sof l Horatio Wignell
th« I Laertes Cooper
8 ® f Palonius Morris
:my. Rofensra«s Warrtll, jua.
jerai Guildenftem Mitchell
fion, Francisco Darley, jua.
umn Marcellus Fo *
'• ef - Bernardo , Wirrell ,
i»y'» Oftric Fr"ius
gade Lucianui Bliflet
Grave Diggers Meflrs. Harwood and Bhffrt
re so Queen (for that flight only) Mrs. Merry
> ,ur Ophelia Mrs. Oldmixon
them Player Queen Mrs. Harvey
To which will be added, never performed id America,
"'• a Farce, from a manufeript copy, by pcrmiffion of
»f the managers of Covent Garden Theatre, where it
'»■ »i is performing with umverfiil applauie, written by
the author of the Poor Soldier, called
Z% The DoJdrum;
full of 0 R »
£"£ 1804.
Man- I SirMarmaduke, Mr. \\ arren
Septimus Harwood
ss §?aasr
"t\ s: E'
tj-four Gyp B|iflit
Looby MaodonaW
S. I E rrU,fe° r "tSSc
, t bJ Auburn -Sr
V* Adopted Child, Foe
ght will bt
» the Ifl 1 Received by the IndoftaQ,
tellig<jfct I F rom Madras, , „
d'eln"\ A SMALL invoice confilling Of tha following Coast
witbtb. A GooJ.^,
■tant L. #g Cl.tV.,t4|Unlu«s
Jo, ® " «
?adTZ'n I Madrafs Handkerchiefs, and
in a mef-1 Book WILLING FRANCK.
nilj, *!>" 1 3*^
M*rthGeneral Orders.
f Philadelphia, March o.sth, 1797- 1
\ LL/hftnt officers, wit< exception t® those the
J\. I'fruiting service, unfer orders from the Secre
tary /Wat, arc to join t eir refpedlive carps with
i he !v;*d qaarterc of th iff and ad regimtMts will
\,c cfts'difhed within the lii its of the North-Western
Territary—thofe of the 31 regiment are held at Fert
, ; w.-. in Georgia, and thf 4th regiment will take pott
Xnoxville —t>u| for the ircfent Martin's, Tinfley's,
and Eaton's cowpasies, ae stationed in Georgia, and
t'.c .'-ite Springer's, KetV , Howel Lewis' 6, and Tho-
Ai?*-a|eWis' In ''he Ntmh-Weftern Territory —of
• vhicli tl.c gentlemen inti.* eiUd will take due notice,
themfelves a: »rdingly.
JAM iS WILKINSON,
llrigadier-Genert* and Commander in Chief
of the tr»i s »f the-United States.
r Afxreeatty „to dihEliqt, the Editors of the ftlloiu
irg i\e<ivfpaperj are de/ill to insert 'the above three
iima the accounts to btjirrwarded te the War-Office
of ths United States.
TJjc Columbian Mufe:\, Savannah; C'y Gazette,
C,'>at;ieflon ; Atortb-Cisiyna Minerva, f'ayetUville ;
iCeptucky Gazette; KnwifU Gazette; Virginia Qa
zeite, and General Ad-stifer, Richmond; Baltimore
'Journal; Mess. Adam*paper, Wilmington (Del.J ;
Ne-yu-Jetfey State Qiifttcj Minerva, ork
ConneSicut Courant; trovidcnce Gazette; Colum
bian Centine.'i GazetteV A civ-Hanip/hire Mr. Ba
%er s paper, Portland,f)i/lri{l of Maine.J
Poll Office.
PhilAlphia, March sQth 1797*
ON Monday the 3rlApril sext the Mail for Balti
more will be clolp at this ®ffice at half pall 7
a'cloek in the morning and will continue to be slefed
at that hour every davh the week, Sundays excepted.
The mail? to the Soutlvard «f Baltimore will be clsfed
onjthe trfual days, findays, Wednefday 3, and Fri
days, at half paif 7 o'lock in the morning.
Maicli 30. I *ljt
C (i FFEE.
XANDING lhi» day at the Subscriber's /wW r f>
from the Schaoier Polly, from Jercinicjfc l * T
93 Hogsheads}
20 Barrels f COFFEE.
Bags J
ON HAND,
4 Tierces Coffee
6 Bags Cecoj.
for sale by
C£ORGE LATIMER & SON.-
March 3c. § bt
United Slates, | _
Pennfylnania DifiriS, (•"'
Notice is hereby given,
THAT in purluance of a writ diddled to me frera
the Heaorable Richard Perers, Esq. Judge of the
UiUriiTt Court sf the U .ited States in hud for the Pemi
fylvania Diftritft, will be cxpofed te sale by public auc
tion, at the Merchants' Cjffee-houfe, in the) citr of
Philadelphia, on Monday the teath day of April next, I
at 11 o'clock at noen. the brijan;i»e or reffel called
the Lmdeman, her tackle, furt.itur#, apparel, and
other appurtsnances ; the said brigantine having been
condemned in the said Court for being concerned in
the slave trade, contrary to the form of the A<ft «f
the Cengrefs of the United States in s uc h cafe made
and provided.
WILUAM NICHOLS, Marshal,
Marshal s Ofvice, )
29th March, m 9-,. v ■* -——-
Lottery tnu Broker s Oitice,
No. 64, SotUb SECOND STREET.
TCKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sale—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lotted'.
Check Books kept for examination and regxttering, tor
the City of Watfiingtoji, No. a, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all thej*izes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber foKcits the application of the public
and his friends, who wifli to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on depofic of property.
Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
fait at Ten D.llers each, which will be drawn early in
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, January i(>, 1797. mth
City of Washington.
Scheme of the Lottery, No. 11, for the improvement
of the Federal City.
A magnificent > 10,000 dollars, & J
dwelling-houfo, J caOi 30,000, are ) ,o °°
1 ditto 13,000 & cast »sjooo 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cafli ij,ooo 30,000
I Hkto 10,000 & cafli 10,000 ao,»eo
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
x cafti prize of 10,000
» do. 5,000 each, arej • 10,000
io do. 1,000 - - 10,000
10 do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 . 1 - 10,000
»oo do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do. »j - 10,000
1,000 do. a® - ao,ooo
> 00 ° do - IO - 1.50,000
i6,?39 Pri2e«.
Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those whs may take a quantity of
Tickets,theprizeof4o,ooodollarswillbethc last drawn
tlcW—., and the 3o,ooothe last hut one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received sot
any number not lets eJian 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buiiaings to be ertded in the City of Washington
Two beautiful dcfigns are already iflectcd for the entire
frcnts on two of the public squares ; from the& pravHrtgs
it iapropofedtoerecltwo centre and four corner huildiHgs ;
as soon as po/Jibl©»fter this lottery is fold, and to convey
?hcm, when complete, to the fortunate 'adventurers, in
the manner described in the fchcmefor the-Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
tne necefiary expenses of printing, the surplus
will he made a part of the funtfintended for the National
University, to he eroded withinfhe city of WaCiiagton.
' he real securities given for the payment of the Prices
ire held by the President and two Diredors of tb.e Bank
of Culu.nbw, and are valued at more than half the a'
mount ol the lottery.
SAMUEL BLoit<!£T.
r thcßlnk Colombia ;of
James We: & Co. Bait,more; of F tter oilman, Soften
ot j 0r,.. - Iwp.uns, Richmond an< [ o[ Ric f jar j We , t
C ooper .8 Ferry,
CAMILLA,
Or APitture of Youth.
Fv the authorefa of Evelina and Cecilia, to be com
prised in five volumes, at half a dollar each, payable
on delivery—Printed at New-York, by Mr. John
Bull.
CONDITIONS..
I. Handsome, neat type, perfi -illy new, ts em
ployed.
11. A volume,*ftitched in bloe paper, is intended
to be publifiied-every 2 weeks, till the five are com
pleted ; the firft and feccnd are come to hand, and the
third is hourly expefled. Snbfcnptions are received,
and Books may be hid of J. ORMROD, No. 41,
Chefnut-ftreet-
Mrs. D'ArbUy (late Mil's Burney) the celebrated
autborefs of this inimitable work, ftesds no eulogy
to add to the laurels (he has already acquirer' in the
literary world. The strength of imagination and ele
gance of ftj'le, difplayod in Evelina and Cecilia, will
fufficiently tecommend to every reader of taite and
judgmejit, the perusal of Camilla.
Jt may not.be improper to add, that the Queen if
England, after having perilled this interesting publi
cation, presented Mrs. D'Arblay with a thoufiid
pounds fteriinjj, as <1 tedimouy of her ap^" "baton ps
the work.
January 35 mi's
LancaJter, Harrijlurgh, Carli/le, Ship
fenjburg and Sunbu'ry
STAGES.
The public are requested to take notice, that the p.aft
nerfhip which has for sometime fabiW.ed betweow Matbi
as Slough of Lancaster, and William Geer, is how dilfyl
ved ; but, not as M. Slough infinuatcs to the public
without just cause : as will more fully appear by a letter
on the fubje<st from M. Slough to W. Geer, dated the
29th December last, a.recital of which is mot now deemed
necelFary. Any gentleman who wiihes to be more cjr
cumftantially informed of the merits of this business, by
applying to W. Geer may have the perdfal ®f M.Sloufct's
lett«r, and then can be at full liberty to determine whe
ther or not W. Geer is not perfectly juftifiabie in attach
ing himfelf to any other person in the prosecution of the
Stage conveyance from Philadelphia to Shippenfburg,
or any other place.
Now from tbe liberal and generous support the public
were pleased to confer on the firft effort in this buiinejTs,
William Geer, in conjun<ftion with Messrs. Reily, Weed
and Witmer, is determined to profecut& and carry it oil,
with every care, attention anddifpatch that a zeal to o
blige the public can pofTibly exert.
The above company, who are amply provided with
carriages, horses* and every appurtenance to render the
passage fafe and commodious, iilform those who wilh to
patronize and encourage the undertaking, that they can
take their feats at George Weed'*, the sign of the Whrc
Horse, Market Street, Philadelphia, on every Mocdiy
and Friday, to proceed to Lancaster, Harrifburg, Carlif c
and Shippenfburg. The fare as hitherto eftabliflied.
For the further accommodation of the public, a
will start every Wednesday from the house of Samue l
Elder, ia Harrifburg, arrive at Sucbury in Northumber
land county, every Thursday, and return from thewceajM
■ arrive at Harrifburg every Saturday, so that paffengt rs
j destined for Lancaster or Philadelphia, may proceed >n
Mondays.
WILLIAM GEER.
Lancaster, Jan. 27, 1797.
N. B. This Line of Stages starts from ths house of
William Ferrae, in Lancaster, on every TuelHay and Sa
turday morning at 6 ©'clock, proceeding to the weftwanl;
and from the house of Mr. Samuel £ldcr in Harnlburg
every Wednesday morning, on the fame eveaing arrives
at Patrick Cochran's in Shippenfburg, and returns from
jno in a I uMUCTJIHW. ITIWi
SAMUEL KICHARDET
"D ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
r*- Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia:
The Stlbfcription Room will be fumilhed with all tht
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bol
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refreflimeiits
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the no#
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and oarlieit
productions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may he
accommodated with Breakfalts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
regularly kept for conveniency, the Billof Fare te be had
at ths bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnlfhed, and
the utmost attention paid te cleanlinofs, and every other
requilite.
£5" Samuel Richardet will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part shall be wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguifh
ingly honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
S VV A N N'S
Riding School, Horse Academy isf Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square. Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his sincere thanks to those gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, during his refideocc in this City, and
Hatters himfelf that the faccefs of his efforts, in the numerous,
obstinate and dan.erous dife»f»* tn in which he has
been" mlte 4, together with his moderate charges, will fe
ure their future favors and recommendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
that his spacious and commodious premises, eredted for the
purposes above described are open for the reception of pupils
of either sex, who wilhto beinfirufted in the Art of Kidiiig,
and the right method of governing their horses, so as to *idr
them with ease, elegance, and fafety—their horses will be
carefully and expeduieully broke, for every purpose,
maa: obedient tot he will of the riders ; the natural powers
' hicn are shut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving *0 that noble animal
all those beauties of aflion which providence has so bounti
fully iielfowed on there-
Also, at his every disorder to which the horse is
I .able Will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by locg and repeated experience.
The utility of the above inftitutian has never been qocftion
ed, that it has ong been wantedin this city, every gentleman's
iiUd will mamfefl, and T. SWAtfN as the Rift eftahlifher of
i ®^f teren,l! y felicitf aiid relies upon the lappoitof that
py ic (w ich, he is ever anxious in serving) to enable him to
r ' n? 11 P c The idra of a fubfcripticin for tkat
c bzza hinted by fevcral gentleman, who wiftj to
promote iat inf|itution —the amount of each fubferip ion to
e returned by services in any of the departments;he profefFes,
agreeabJe to the rate of charges dated in bis hand bill. Swch
fublcription open, and thdignaturcs of many refpc#-
abie uehtieflneii alieady obnined. He therefore ikjorms hi*
mend* and such Ladies and gentlemen to whom be has not
jne ho» rof being known, that he shall in a few days take
the hbertyof waiting upon them iolidtint their support
au <ijprot ftion. /
N B. Horse« are properly prepared for those Ladicsand
<itntlenienwho wftli to be inducted*
Nov.
Imported in the ship Pigou, i
Capt. Dale, from Canton,
AND for sale by the Subfcribar it No. 146, Arch
flreet, and No. 45, north Front-street,
Yellow Nankeens, £hort pieces
White do. do.
Tf ellow do. long pieces
China Ware, well alTorted
Sugar in Boxes
Silks aflorted
Umbrellas, silk and fa'tun, various colours,
afTorud in Boxes of 50 each
Hyson Skin
Young Hyson f Teas
Imperial j
WILLIAM SANSOM.
March 22. fjw
All Persons
INDEBTED to the Eltate of Rebecca Martin (for
merly Vanakin) late of Germantown, deceased,
are requested to make immediate payment; and th# A
wha ha.e demands againit the laid Ellate are desired
to fiirnifh their accounts properly at'efted to eithtr of
thrffubfcribcrs.
ANTHONY JOHNSON,
JOHN JOHNSON, > Adminiftratou.
CASPAR \V. HAINES, )
Germantown, id Month, 9th, 1797.
N. B. Any persons having any papers, whatsoever
the property of the above estate, are carileftly rtqueft
cd to deliver them to the admlniftrators to prevent far
ther trouble.
Marrh 14. *iaynw
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL lituated, laying on and between Marlh
and Beech Creeks, Miffiin county, Pennsylvania, in
four separate Patents. For terms ot sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, South Seeond-ftrset
January 26. mwftf
Benjamin if Jacob Johnson,
. Mo. 147 Market Street, Philadelphia,
Y TAVE iuft received by the Hairtburgh-Packot, from
JLjL Liverpool, a quantity of wcil-chofen
Dry Goods,
Which they will fell on the Joweft terms.
3d mo. is. th&f4w
Canal Lottery, No. 11.
Scheme of a Lottery,
Authorized by an Aft, entitled, (' An Aft to
enable the President and Managers of the Schuyl
kill and Sufquehannah navigation, to raise, by
way of Lottery, the sum of Four Hundred
Thousand Dollars, for the purpose of complet
ing the works, in their afts of incorporation
mentioned."
n Dollars
1 Prize of twenty thsiifand doflars, to,oo©
I of ten thousand dollars, 10,000
j of four thousand dollars each, to
be paid to the poflefibrs of the five
numbers firft out of the wheel on theliifc__
day'sdrawimi undrawn, 20,.00
10 of two thousand dollars each, ao,ooo
20 of one thousand dollars each, so^ooo
43-"f five hundred dollars each, tt,fdd
100 of two hundred dollars each, 20,00s
100 of one hundred dollars each, JO,OOO
330 of fifty dollars each, 11,000
19,500 of five dollars each, - 147,500
30,000 Tickets at ten dollars each. 300,000
Six dollars for each ticket will only be demanded at
the time of sale.
All prizes lhall be paid ten days after the drawing'is
finiihed, upon the demand of the pofleflbr of a fortun-
Ite ticket, TutjeA to a deduction of fifteen per cent.
otuch prizes as are not demanded within 11 months
after the drawing is finifhed, of which public notke
will be given, shall be eonfidered as relinquilhed for the
use of the Canal and applied accordingly.
•
At a Meeting of the Pre/ident and Managers of
the Schuylkill and Sufquehanna Canal Naviga
tion—and the President and Managers of the
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal,
Resolved, That Joleph Ball, Johji Steinmetz, Stan
iUh Forde, Francis Weft, James M'Crea, John Mil
er, jus. and William Montgomery, be a committee
o arrange and direst the mode of disposing of the tic
tetsj which committee lhall deposit this money in
tank, to be carried to the credit of on account to be
ipened for the Lottery.
\ta Meeting of the Canal Board, hejd January
16, '97,
I Resolved, That the committee for conducing the
ottery be diredled to c««amence the drawing on the
rft day of March next.
Extradl from the Minutes,
Wm. M.Smith, Secretary.
Jofepb Ball, ")
John Steinmetz, j 1
Standi/h Forde,
hands Wejl, [►Managers.
James M'Crea,
John Miller, jun.
William Montgomery, J
Tan.le.
Lately Imported,
\ «D sow opening for Sale, by the Box or frngle ream,
VV hy B. DAVIKjv, at N0.68 Market-ftrcet, anaffort
of ENGLISH PAPER,
} CONS,STING OF
X inting Paper, of an excellent quality, both Medb
ut|an4 Demy ,
Wi ting Ditto, of various sizes and -qualities, as
Inftrinl Thick and thin folio ""N _ c
Sulr-Roj al Post, ( cu 5' fit
Foolscap, common f ~ or
Menum, common Ditto wove 3 ° '
£>itt' wove for drawing Pott
Deny, common Thick and thin 4to poft,plain
Ditt., wove gik and black-edged
Demy and foolfc marble paper
A general assortment of, the neateil Sta
tionaiy W are, a variety of maps, chares and plans, and
a valiable aollfe&ion of BOOKS in the Englifli, French,
Greet and Latin languages. As he intends to decline the
iJookrtradc, he proposes to of his flock of Books
on hatd at reduced prices, for cash or approved notes: ca
talogues of the books may be had at the fame place.
siy aj th&f3w |
*cbr«Sry
For. Sale
3y private coutraU, a very valuable Ejlillt, known by
tfye name sf
C H h T H A M,
MOST delightfully situated on the north bank or R?.p
pahanock river, opposite the town of Fredericksburg-, ia
the llate of Virginia, of eleven fifteen hun
dred acres, as utay best suit the purchaser. l'b.re is or\
this cftate, a large and well built brick house, codtainng
nine commodious rooms, cxclufive of a spacious hall or en
try, 22 feet square.two pair of stairs, suitable and convene
ieut passages, and excellent dry cellars. It is placed on a
fine healthy eminence, -corii*~.?»dipg beautiful views in
every direction over the towns of Frederickfburgh and
Falmouth, and an extenijve cultivated country.—The
grounds adjoining the house are neatly laid out in pleat-'
urev.id kitchen gardens interspersed with a variety oc
!ca*ce trees, a choice colle&ion of flowers and fiowerx.
srjjs, and enriched by various fort-s of the following
'•y its, viz apples, peafs, walnuts, chefnuts, eherries,peac*<?
eijfllumss, nedtarines, apricots, grants, figs, ra/b-r.-ies, i
grapheme®, fcrawbcrrics, a*d cr.rrapts: the wjaale admi- \
3 ably varied by turltdilopes vvhich have been formed by
great labour and expence. Bordering upon these im
provements, arc fe vu lots, in a high state of cultivation,
md well set with red clover and orchard grass, from
which three heavy crops of hay are taken every year. Ad
jacent thereto are two large and flourishing orchards; one
oiweli chosen peach trees, the other of apple and pear»
tree?, fele&edfrom thp best nurseries in the state. Pro
perly. detached from the matnfion house are extensive
roomy offices of every denomination, viz a Kitchen and
Larder, hoofe-keeper's room and Laundry, with
underneath for a variety of purposes, a ftore-hotife and.
smoke house allof brick, a dairy and spring house of fton«.
Stables for thirty herfes, anH coaeh houses for four car
riages. Also a large and well planned farm yard, v ith
barn and granary, a cow heufc, with separate stalls for
thirty-fix grown cuttle; apartments for fattening vealo,
muttohs and lambs j extensive sheds for sheep, <*nd other
arrangements for stock of every description, with a iargd
and convenient receptable for provender, from which tV.ey
can be furnifhed wi?.hout being exposed to the inclemency
of the weather. An overseer's house, blacksmith's iho£,
and quarters fufficient to accommodate in the best man
ner more than fifty labourer*.
The arable land»jace f*» divided as to af
ford an opportunity of making a large of Indian
corn annually, without bringing the field into similar cul
ture oftner than once in four years; consequently the
lands may be improved by keeping up thetnclofures during
the intermediate years, or may be bentfiicLilly fallowed for
wheat and other grain at the option oi tjb proprietor.
On the prcmifes there is also a mercha:\ mill with one
pair of best Frenc-h burr f tones, and one jroir of Qologne;
furniOied with modern machinery, and now leafed for thp
unexpired term oi four years, 1501 per rmnrun, and all
grain for th« use of the farm, hopper free, which is near
ly I 001. more. fk« mill and miner's house arc built of
free stone, within a very small distance of navigation, a car
to which are two or more valuable iifheries, and a well
I accufioincd ferry over the Rappahannock to the town o£
Frederickfburg. Fh. land contains inexhaustible quarries
of free I tone near to the river, is plentifully supplied with
remarkable fine water and poffefTes a due proportion o£
meadow, which by having the command of water may
be confiderafcly increased. The roads are good, and the
neighbourhood genteel and sociable. lnfa&, exclufiveof
an improveabie and well conditioned farm, the value and
emolument inseparably conne<slcd tvitn a mill, ferries,
fifheries and quarries eligibly fltuated ; the profit® a/iiing
from an ice-hotife inferior to none in the state, and a gar
den of four acres so abundantly ftockcd with vegetable*
of all forts as tojbe fully equal to the demand in market,
there might be detailed many other advantages,
taming to the fertility of these lands, which the iubferiber
--rei-rcrT"'" • j*« —t«4tiy convinced
that wKen examined, it will be found to be a complete,
pleasant and healthy refideace, poiTefTinf beauties and
convenances fuficieat to attract t Ke wtentionof any per
ion delirous of becoming a purchaser.
The motive which in,luces the fubferiber to offer for
jr" lft f tefo Angularly beautiful and advantageous, it
a desire to become an inhabitant of Alexandria, where he
can with more ease attend to his interests in the neisrh
bourhood oftha* city. °
i he purchaser may he accommodated with a few slaves
m families, either tor plantation or domestic use. A part
of the purchafc money will be required and the bala".c«
made easy, the debt being properly Secured.
WILLIAM FITZHUGH.
Chatham, (Vug) Bee 19, 7796 J Ifth—zawzMi
1 - ~ —— —— ■ 1 <
A New Work.
PROPOSALS
For printing and publilhing, by fubferiptioo, The
History of Pennsylvania,
IN North* America, from tbe original inHi.ui.ion aod (ettlo
ment of that province, under tnefi'ft propiietor ...id gov
cinor> William Penn, in 1681, 'till 4fter the year 1742;
with an IN rRODUCfIGN. refpeftirig rfte Life of W.
PENN, piior to ihe grant of that Proy;nie, ar>d the religious
Society o. 1 the people called Quakers; *'it.htlie FIRjT RISli
of the NEIGHBORING COLQNIES, Vjpreiter»i-;,ila«lv of
WEST-NEW JLRSEY, and tbe of ;hel>ClW
and SWE&ESaju DELAWARE. ,
To which iszdnfd,
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THf SAID PROVINCE.
And of the general Hate; in which u fleurilbed) principaliy
between
variety of things, wfehil and intc.-fting to be known, rc
fpefting th«tcou:Ury in early time, kc. W:ta an appendix.
Written principally between the Hears 1776 and 1780,
By ROBERT PJUNJD.
" Pulchrum eji beiiejiccre rtibublicf, ttiani bcncdiccre haud ai-
Jujdvm cjU vel pace vel bdfo ctarum jfuti licet Sal. Catalin.
" Scd enm plcrique arbitrcntur r-ehdivas majorcs ejfc quarn ur
banaj, minuenda tti hizc opinio." Gc. Off.
(Entered acarrdvye !p law.)
" WILLIAM PENN, the grci Jegiflator of the Quakers,
(in Pcnnfylv.inia) had the success (K* a conoucror, in eftablifh
ingand defending his colony, aiflong lavage tribes, without
ever drav/ing the lword ; the of the moil benevo
lent rulers, in treating his fubje&j as his own children
the tendcrnefs of an universal (atfter, who opened his flls
10 all mankind without diftmflion oF feft or party. In nis
Republic it was not his religious creed, but perfunal merit,
that entitled every member of society to the prote&io* and
emolument of the State*"
EjTay on Toleration, by Arthur 0*
CONDITIONS.
I. This work will be printed in two oftavo volumes, neat
ly bound and lettered, both in (Keep *nd calf, for the choice
of the fubferibers; on paper famtfar tothat of the conditions,
av tubhll'Ml in ike Subjcriptionpapers.
11. 'J hc head ot William Penn, handsomely engraved,
wf!l be prefixed to the firft, and a map or fketeh of Pennfyl*
vania, and the parts adjacent, to tbe (ecosd volume.
Ill* 'l'he price to fubferibers will be sou* dollars and an .
half in (heep,and five dollars in calf; —one dollar to be paid
at the time of fubfetibing, twodollaison the delivery of the
fir ft volume, and the remaindtr on the delivery oi the second.
IV. When one thousand copies are subscribed for, the
work will be out to prefsand finilhed with all convenientex
pedition.
Subscriptions will be received by Zachariah Poulfon, jun«
"Printer, No. 80, Chefuut-tfroet, and at the Philadelphia Li
brary in Fifth-ft rc/t; "by lfaac Collins, Printer, and Joseph
James, Merchant, New-York; by John P. Pleafants a«d
George W. Field, Merchants. Baltimore; and by other
perfonsboth in town and country,
February 18. tu&f
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO
—No. 119 —
« U E i X V T-S T *-E * T.